
frrnr ni— wot 4 
PART III— SECTION 4 

am nf Ww srfsr^wq fan* fo antw, f*Rrm 3 ft? 

tffarftTCT j[ 

Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications, Orders, Advertisements and 

Notices issued by Statutory Bodies 


'uroffer sttrt ststpt 
ftff^fr-i.fjnrfT 1 2 nrrsrr 1975 
#0 4 ^ 0 ^ 0 ( 1 ) 9 / 75 - 76 — =^T#T 5TT'<T wrw 
fafarpT 1964 % faPppr 16 % wnnpir *?' t^r^- 

sttt f«RT ^rr^T % fir *trh: srnn ^mnr 

StfafWT 1949 sflr KTTTT 20 1 («p) STTT 5T?rT 

5 riwff ¥T Wtf VT# §? *TTT#fa Jn*cT#«mT 
n?nr;T Tftn^ # jtc# nsrnnr Tfayst jf % ft an# 
£ ^FTTW f^TPrM^RT *FT npi STT# ?tt *tf 

it fCT fanrlt: — 

^o # 0 tr°#o ^■R^'raT fafn 


1. 86 ?rt trn° #to snanr, TTJTpftJTT 12 - 9*75 

W rriTT nt^PT, TOtTRt 
faf?¥n mo ’rr^rnrt 

##Nt rty 1 

2. 2749 ^ft %o nno =nrft, #^0-445, 27*9-75 

yr o st 0 ito ?n yrTrirnr, 

_ r- _f\. 

ny RiRlT I 


#0 8 #t°i^o( l)/ 13/7 5-76 — ^TST HTTT ^JT"PTT 
fafwr 1964 % fafnnn 10(1) stj (tfta) % 

#' nn^jTTi nf qfan f : wr ^r?n f Pf PrrnMsm 
trwnf arrft fw srftetr ^ff mn 1# wr# 

nf PrPprf % >ft Ppt n# f ' «nfffv # sfft nPrerr 
SmTW-TOt "Ft tu# % : — 

^o#o fofo m*r #*r Tnr fnfn 

1. 11638 ’sftnS' 0 ?T*f 1-9-75 

ijo 33 ^to, ffr^rerts 

TmmT 1 

2. 12162 Mt #t° fn^, qo nto it°, 1-11-75 

26/4tlo, snT#?pr 

'FSPFxTT I 

3. 16317 q?To #To #3TT, tTo ntoiTo, 18-8-75 

sfto s/630, FftJft ^nrfrft, 
fcwft i 


369GI/7J 


(2139) 


cjtc trrro ntnrwrfwipf, nf*ry 





2140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


ETTTftE ftftfET Fee fw 
EffEpft-1 10001, fEEVP7 27 fETEET 1975 

eo 5/75 — EFtnjEEr e° 4/75 Fetff 11 
fETHPIT, 19 75 % PEJEE E EP^TTT EFtftftiT f%ET 
PTPT $ fpT 25 fwi, 197 5 ft gf FETE P7 STEP- 

srrftft apt eiFep eiere eat e, prtETfcE 

sfpr fTT°, ET FlOTETE EPET EEtfTEE fpffEE, 9j 

^ pfgreE EE, suEf-i % epest ft 3rrETrE eee ft 
Wrmft ftftr wr xMkfim prig ptFte ftmEP? eet 
grrr ntffercT Fpet eet, ftFp Feet pt srETsnft f, ee 
ft 5 RErFEft, itraf^ ( 1 ) eft EEET$ ^e TOT PET ( 2 ) 
ft EET EFT TETOft fttjft E EEET EfftPElft ETfEE 
TT ft ft I 

epn ft 0 etet 

19 

EftEPrEgr 


E^fftft, fOTTT 20 EPEET 1975 

tt° 6 / 75 — ETTftE ftftFrg; Iett Feet tetette 
F r F r o T t $ FtFtee 44 pet 45 % EftE srtt eFtpet 
pe eeFt pttp 517 Feet e eetept fti F EPft 30 

EPT(EE, 1975 ft ^ST E FEET E FeFtFeP Eft'S 
tett ftft3 EfapEfrftft jTfwft Egft eetp, 1975 
EgrETEr prft ft FueFeFtP EFfPEf % EfafP fftn 
|:- 

( 1 ) EE=tfft (pprftft) TEE EETpft (Frfsr) 

(%5 we: Effts ppftft EfapEfftfr PET 
Effts Frftr EfsrPTftft e ftftgp) 

(pi) EEEEft, TOTP ETEfftfT, TETE, fltVff, 

eetj, trfgftpft pet Feet e ete 

PET % STTT ftliTP EFEETTT ET P^stEE 
PET gTPipTE ETET, ^ft, fftpEE 

ftr ftr Feet e eie tee eFtep 
E rtf F eteFep see Fiwf 
apt ETfET, PaftyFr PET 

'jspf EE EE EE TSTpf ET EPTEE ftr 
^E EET? E pgft % EteFeP Eft SEE 

suft, HTEFrft, Frftft, *b<i mift, eFt- 

Tfft TEE PTPTpft ET gTPTSTT ETET I 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT OF 
INDTA 

New Delhi, 12lh November 1975 

No. 4-CA (l)/9/75-76 — In pursuance of Regulation 16 of 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1964, it is hereby noti- 
fied that in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) 

of Sub-Section (1) of Section 20 of the Chartered 

Accountants Act, 1949, the Council of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India, has removed from the Register of Mem - 
bers of this Institute on account of death, with effect from the 


(ay) Feet £ tee srfsryTT "pet t 
fttee if Feet Tt ttr % teesttt 
Fptt EtT Etff FtFeT SPTTRsff, FTW 
TEE ElTTHTEf apt ^ftlE f^i7 

EpapT FETTLE TETT EE TT ^EttPTT 
apTPT I 

(2) TT^ETap JTP^apff (Frfsr)/TTgEEP (TTap^apt) 
pup EfaTrfnff ( Frfs ) /pup wrFEPTF3ff ( ) 
(t^e pttpt: Frfsr eFttiDje, TTwFpr wFr- 
aprFurf, TT5TW fpFj wFrTrFuff eg epeet 
TE pifFpt srfsEPrfufr e eFa^e) 

T^ET PET, PPTT WTPfTETt, PPTap, W=pft, 
pfpff , pffErfTEff tett Fete *p pet tee 
% ffTTT TfpfTT eFtPETT TT 'TOt'PE 
TEE ^FTTtTTUP PEET, papt, fpFEET PET 

eFc Feet t grEP tee wFtiet Trar tt 
ttpFee see Fteee pft mf r E, pptffp, 

TETT tpsEPP ^ OT spptt ap ppaff^ 
TFpFaTT PETt TEE PTlTfr, ETEfeiEf, 
Frwrf, apTTEEEf eFFTEE TETT PPTTTPPff 
PT grTESTT apTPT I 

ETTEE EETFPT, 
ECEW 

keptFe ^fEFT sfFn Feet 
etteVe pFee afErr Feet (apjfErtt ?nf ) 

<P FtFETE, I960 E E3EEE 
Eo ni (IV)/ 51 / 7 5 — ^ee eEe Feet Eftr- 

pTEE, 1956 aft ETTT 49 P?t i3E-ElTr(2) % 5ES (e) 
5fk (EE) % SETEfff RETT 'TlfpTTEt PE PETE PTTE ^TT 

tee %eFe etpet «p JeFteFte ^ FtFeet, 1 9 e 0 e 
eittFe pFee ftpr Feet FeeFtFs p epFee pttttt ; 

?TT fEFTEEapETTTTE 29 ^ EPETE ETEETE E FEE- 
FtFste eteete peteteFet Feet PTE 

“tee ft Feet £ Fpft e! pETEift aft eIet EfEP^i 1 
ftp aft pft?fp pft PETE aft ElEaft ftp E ft aftf ft 
PETErft EEE qfTElT E Fpft ft EEPE pit ftET wFp- 
Prpf % PE tf PEE piTE ftTT I 

[TEoftEPTPEr SIE^E FftTEP 

dates mentioned against their names, the names of the 
following gentlemen:— 

S. Member- Name and Address Date of 

No. ship No. Romoval 

~T. 86 Shri N.B. Bajan, 12-9-1975 

M/a. Damama Panday & Bajan, 

Navsari Building, 

Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road, 

Fort. Bombay. 

2. 2749 Shri K, S. Chari, 27-9-1975 

H-445, D. D. A. Flats, 

Nariana, 

New Delhi. 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2141 


No. 8 C.A, (l)/13/75-76 — In pursuance of Clause (iii) 
of Regulation 10(1) of the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations, 1964, it is hereby notified thnt the Certi- 
ficate of Practice issued to the following members shall stand 
cancelled for the period mentioned against their names, as they 
do not desire to hold their Certificate of Practice. 


s. 

No. 

Member- 
ship No. 

Name and Address 

Period dur- 
ing which 
the 

Certificate 

shall 

stand 

Cancelled 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1 . 

11638 

Shri S. K, Sen Gupta, A.C.A. 
33-B, Kalighat Road, 

Calcutta. 

1-9-1975 

2. 

12162 

Shri C. Singh, A.C.A., 

26/4A, Armenian Street, 
Calcutta. 

1-11-1975 

3. 

16317 

Shri N, K. Nayyar, A.C.A. 

B 5/630, Lodi Colony, 

New Delhi. 

18-8-1975 

P. S. GOPALAKRISHNAN 
Secretary 


INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF 
INDIA NEW DELHI 
New Delhi, the 27th cptember 1975 

No. 5/75. — In continuation of Notification No. 4/75 dated 
the 11th September, 1975, it is hereby notified that at the 
Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of the Corpo- 
ration held on the 25th September 1975. Shri Shamrao 
Kadam, Chairman, The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank 
Ltd., Sir Vithaldas Thac kersey Memorial Building 9-Bake- 
housc Lane. Bombay-1, was declared elected as a Director to 
represent the cooperative hanks, which are the shareholders 
of the Coiporation; the other two candidates, viz.. (1) Shri 
Jashbhai U. Patel and (2) Shri Nanalal Dahvabhai Chokshi 
having withdrawn their candidature. 

R. B. MATHUR, 
General Manager. 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1975 

No. 6/75. — In pursuance of the Regulations 44 and 45 of 
the General Regulations of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India, the Board of Directors of the Corporation at their 
meeting held on the 30th October 1975 have authorised the 
following Senior and lunior Officers of the Corporation to 
exercise the signing powers with retrospective effect from the 
1st August, 1975, as follows : — 

(1) Managers ( Technical ) and Managers {Law) 

(Formerly designated us Senior Technical Officers and 
Senior Law Officers respectively). 

(a) To endorse and transfer promissory notes, stock 
receipts, stock, debentures, shares, securities and 
documents of title to goods standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw, accept and 
endorse cheques, bills of exchange and other instru- 
ments in the current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to operate bank accounts and to 
sign all other accounts, receipts, deeds, agreements, 
contracts and documents connected with such busi- 
ness. 

(b) To sign and execute on behalf of the Corporation 
all legal documents, instruments and agreements 
which are required to be executed for and on behalf 
of the Corporation in connection with the current 
and authorised business of the Corporation. 

(2j Assistant Managers (Law)/ Assistant Manager 
( Technicals ) Loans Officers (Law) /Loans Officers 
( Technical ) 


(Formerly designated as Law Officers, Technical Officers, 
Asstt. Law Officers and Asstt. Technical Officers respectively). 

To endorse and transfer promissory notes, stock 
receipts, stock, debentures, shares, securities and 
documents of title to good standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw, accept and 
endorse cheques, bills of exchange Hnd other instru- 
ments in the current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to sign all other accounts, receipts 
and documents connected with such business. 

BALDEV PASR1CHA, 
Chairman. 


EMPLOYEES’ STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Jaipur, the 19th November 1975 

No. R/18-7/73-Eslt. — It is hereby notified that the Local 
Committee consisting of the following members has been re- 
constituted for Sawai Madhopur Area under Regulation 1Q-A 
of the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulation, 1950 
w.e.f, the date of notification. 

CHAIRMAN 

Under Regulation 1 0-4 (1) (a) 

District Medical & Health Officer, 

Sawai Madhopur. 

MEMBERS 

Under Regulation 10-/1 (1) (b) 

Regional Asstt. Labour Commissioner, 

BHARATPUR. 

Under Regulation 10-/1 (!) ((') 

Insurance Medical Officer. Incharge, 

K.S.I. Dispensary, 

Sawai Madhopur. 

Under Regulation 10-/1 (1) (d) 

Shri N. N, Sharma, 

Personnel Officer, 

Jaipur Udvoi; Ltd. 

Sawai Madhopur. 

Under Regulation 10-/1 (1) (e) 

Shri N. P. Iain, 

Cement Works Karamchari Sangh, 

Sahunagar, 

Sawa : Madhopur. 

Under Regulation 10-/1 ( 1 ) (/) 

The Manager, 

Mini, Local Officer, 

Sawai Madhopur. 

U. P. SAXENA, 
Regional Director 


I.IFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 

Amendment to the Life Insurance Corporation of India 
(Staff) Regulations, 1960 

Bombay, the 1975 

No. ill (1V)/51 /75. — - In exercise of the powers vested in it 
under clauses (b) and (bb) of Sub-section (2) of Section 
49 of ihe Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India with the previous approval 
of the Central Government, makes the following amendment 
to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regula- 
tions, I960. 

In Regulation 29 of the said Regulations, for the existing 
proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted namely : — 

“Provided that no employee of the Corporation shall be 
permitted to act as an insurance agent and no employee ehall 
allow any member of his family to net as an insurance agent”. 

S. RANGARAIAN, 
Managing Director 



2142 the Gazette of india, December u, 1975 (agrahayana 22 , mr > [part hi— sec, 4 


OIL & NATURAL GAS COMMISSION 
SECRETARIAT 

No. 17(ll)/69-Reg. — In exercise of tbe powers conferred 
by section 32 of the Oii and Natural Gas Commission Act, 
1939 (43 of 1959), and all other powers enabling hereinto 
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission hereby makes, with 
the previous approval of the Central Government, the follow- 
ing regulations relating to the terms and conditions of 
appointment and service of the employees, namely :• — 

1. Short Title and Commencement : 

(1) These regulations may be called the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission (Terms and Conditions of Appointment and 
Service) Regulations, 1975. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publi- 
cation in the Official Gazette, 

2. Definitions : 

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise re- 
quires : — 

(a) “Act” means the Oil and Natural Gas Commission 
Act, 1959 (43 of 1959); 

(b) ‘‘appointing authority”, in relation to any post, means 
the Commission and includes any person or 
authority to whom the power to make appointment 
to that post has been delegated by the Commission 
under section 26 of the Act; 

(c) “Commission” means the Oil and Natural Oas Com- 
mission established under the Act; 

(d) “competent authority” in relation to the exercise 
of a power, means the Commission and includes 
any officer or authority to whom the power is de- 
legated by the Commission under section 26 of the 
Act; 

(e) “Government” means the Central Government; 

(f) “employee” means a person who holds n post under 
the Commission and includes any such person whose 
services are temporarily placed at the disposal of a 
State Government or the Central Government or 
any Government Industrial Undertaking; 

(g) “lien” means the title of an employee to hold subs- 
tantively, either immediately or on termination of 
a period or periods of absence, a permanent post 
including a tenure post, to which he ha s been ap- 
pointed substantively; 

(h) “Standing Committee” means the committee consist- 
ing of whole-time members; 

(i) “tenure post” means a permanent post which an 
individual employee may not hold for more than 
a limited period. 

Note : In case of doubt, the Commission or any 
person or authority to whom the power Is 
delegated by the Commission under section 26 
of the Act, may decide whether a particular 
post is or is not a tenure post, 

3. Application : 

(1) These regulations shall apply to all the employees of 
the Commission, except — 

(a) those on foreign service terms with the Commission 
in whose case tbe terms and conditions of appoint- 
ment and service agreed to between the Commission 
and the lending organisation would apply; and 

(b) those paid from contingencies who shall be governed 
by the provisions of the standing orders in force. 

(2) Nothing in these regulations shall operate to deprive 
any employee of any right or privilege to which he is 
entitled — 

(a) by or under any law for the time being in foie;; or 


(b) by the terms or conditions of service, or any agree- 
ment, subsisting between such person and the Gov- 
ernment; or 

(c) by the terms or any agreement subsisting between 
him and the Commission at the commencement of 
these regulations. 

4. Nationality : 

A candidate for appointment to the service of the Com- 
mission must be — 

(a) a citizen of India, or 

(b) a subject of Nepal, or 

(c) a subject of Bhutan, or 

(d) a Tibetan refugee who came over to India, before 
1st January, 1962 with the intention of permanently 
settling in India, or 

(c) a person of Indian origin who has migrated from 
Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon and East African countries 
of Kenya, Uganda and the United Republic of Tan- 
zania (formerly Tanganyika and Zanzibar) with 
the intention of permanently settling in India. 

Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b), 
(;), (d) and (e) shall be a person in whose favour a 
certificate of eligibility has been granted by the Government. 

5. Verification of Character and Antecedents ; 

Tile inclusion of a candidate’s name in the list of candi- 
dates selected, confers no right to appointment unless the 
appointing authority is satisfied, after such enquiries as may 
be considered necessary, that the candidate having regard to 
his character and antecedents, is suitable in all respects for 
appointment. 

6. Marriage Declaration : 

(1) (a) No person who has entered into, or contracted 

a marriage with a person having a spouse living; 
or 

(b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into 
or contracted a marriage with any person, shall 
be eligible for appointment to, any post in the 
Commission ; 

Provided that the Commission may, if it is satisfied that 
such marriage is permissible under the personal law applica- 
ble to such person and the other parly to the marriage and 
there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person from 
the operation of this regulation. 

(2) An employee who has married or marries a person 
other than of Indian Nationality shall forthwith 
intimate the fact to the Commission. 

7. Medical Certificate on First Entry : 

No person shall be appointed to a post in the Commission 
without a medical certificate of health obtained ill accordance 
with the procedure prescribed in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission (Medical Examination of Employees) Regula- 
tions, 1965 : 

Provided that the Commission may by order exempt either 
permanently or temporarily any candidate or a class of 
candidates from the production of such certificate of fitness 
and if temporary exemption is granted, the medical examina- 
tion shall be required to be completed within a period of 
three months from the date of actual joining of the post. 

8. Date of Birth : 

(1) Every employee newly appointed to a service or post 
under the Commission shall at the time of appointment declare 
the date of his birth by the Christian Era with confirmatory 
documentary evidence such as Matriculation Certificate or 
Municipal birth certificate. If tbe exact date is not known, 
an approximate date duly supported by confirmatory evi- 
dence to the satisfaction of the appointing authority, shall 
be given, 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2143 


(2) The actual date or the assumed date detci mined under 
sub-regulation (3) shall be recorded in the history of service, 
service book or any other record that may be kept in respect 
of the employee's service under the Commission and, once 
recorded, it cannot be altered, except in the case of a clerical 
error, without the previous orders of the appointing authority, 

Note : Request for alteration of date of birth should not 
be entertained after the preparation of reivice books 
of the employees concerned, and in any event not 
later lhan the completion of the probation period. 
The date of birth may, however, be altered at a 
later stage by a competent authority if that authority 
is satisfied that a bonafidc clerical mistake has been 
committed and that it should be rectified. Efforts 
should, however, be made to settle the matter within 
the period stated above, 

(3) If an employee is unable lo state his exact date of 
birth but can state the year, or year and month of birth, 
the 1st July or 16th of a month respectively shall he treated 
as the date of birth. 

(4) If an employee is only able to state his approximate 
age, his date of birth shall be assumed to be the correspond- 
ing date after deducting the number of years representing his 
age from his date of appointment. 

(5) When a person who first entered in military service, 
is subsequently employed in the Commission, the date of 
birth for the purpose of the employment in the Commission 
shall be the date stated by him at the time of attestation or 
if at the time of attestation he stated only his age, the date 
of birth shall be deduced with reference to that age according 
to sub-regulation (4). 

(6) In the case of illiterate employee, the date of birth 
declared by him shall be recorded by an officer not lower 
in rank than a Head of office under his dated signature. 

9. Oath of Allegiance : 

Every new entrant to seivice under the Commission shall 
take oath or solemnly affirm his allegiance to the Constitu- 
tion of India as by law established in the following foim, 
that is to say : — 

— do swear/ solemnly affirm that I will 

be faithful and bear true allegiance to India and to the 
Constitution of India as by law established and that I 
will carry out the duties of my office loyally, honestly 
and with impartiality. 

“SO HELP ME* GOD" Signature of candidate 

Date : 

"■Applicable in case of oath only. 

10, Probation : 

(1) Every person appointed lo ft post cither by direct re- 
cruitment or by departmental promotion, shall be on proba- 
tion for a period of one year : 

Provided that the appointing authority may extend the 
period of probation by any period, which shall not normally 
exceed one year, except for special reason to be recorded in 
writing; but no employee shall be kept on proba'ion for a 
total period exceeding three years in any post. 

(2) During the period of probation, an employee may be 
required to puss a written examination or a proficiency test 
or a trade test within a specified period, or in a specified 
number of chances, and on such conditions, as may be speci- 
fied in this behalf. 

(3) A decision on the question whether an employee should 
be deemed to have completed the period of probation satis- 
factorily, or whether bis probation should be extended, shall 
ordinarily be taken within a period of two months from tho 
date of expiry of the period of probation and communicat- 
ed in writing to the employee. 

(4) An employee, who fails to complete his probation 
satisfactorily, or who fails to pass the written examination, 
proficiency test or trade test mentioned in sub-regulation (2), 
within the specified period or chances or within such extend- 
ed period or chances, as may be allowed fo him, or whose 


progress is not satisfactory during the period of probation, 
may be; 

(i) discharged from the service of the Commission if 
he is a direct recruit from the open market, or 

(ii) revetted to a lower post, if he is a promotee, or 
was appointed to the higher post as a departmental 
employee against direct recruitment without any 
notice or any reason being assigned. 

11. Confirmation against Permanent Post ; 

The employees of th e Commission will be eligible for 
confirmation against permanent posts in accordance with the 
principles as laid down in Annexurc I appended to these re- 
gulations. 

12. Substantive Appointment : 

(1) Two or more employees cannot be appointed substan- 
tively to the same permanent post at the same time. 

(2) An employee cannot be appointed substantively except 
as a temporary measure to two or more permanent posts at 
the same time. 

(3) An employee cannot be appointed substantively to a 
post on which another employee holds a lien. 

13. Lien : 

( 1 ) Unless in any case it be otherwise provided in these 
regulations, an employee on substantive appointment to any 
permanent post, acquires a lien on that post and ceases to 
Uold any lien previously acquired on any other post. 

(2) Unless his lien is suspended under regulation 14 or 
tram tailed undci regulation 16, an employee holding subs- 
lantiv'c'y a permanent post retains a lien on that post — 

(a) while performing the duties of that post; 

(.b) while on foreign service or holding a temporary 
post, or officiating in another post; 

Cc) during joining time on transfer to another post, 
unless he is transferred substantively to a post on 
lower pay in which case his lien Is transferred to 
the new post from the dale on which he is relieved 
of his duties in the old post; 

(d) while on leave other than refused leave granted 
after the date of compulsory retirement; and 

(e) while under suspension. 

14. Suspension of Lien : 

(1) The competent authority shall suspend the hen of an 
employee on a permanent post which he holds substantively, 
if he is appointed iu a substantive capacity; 

(a) to a tenure post, or 

(b) provisionally, to a post on which another employee 
would hold a lien had his Hen not been suspended 
under this regulation. 

(2) The competent authority may, at its discretion sus- 
pend the lien of an employee on a permanent post which 
he hold? substantively, if ho is deputeq out of India or 
tiansfcricd to foreign service, or in circumstances not covered 
by sub-regulation (1) is transferred in an officiating capacity, 
to a post in another cadre and if in any of these cases there 
is reason to believe that he will remain absent from the 
post on which he holds a lien for a period of not less than 
three years. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation 
(1) or (2) an employee’s lien on a tenure post may in no 
circumstances be suspended and if he is appointed substantive- 
ly to another permanent post, bis lien on iftc tenure post must 
be terminated, 

(4) If an employee's lien is suspended under sub-regulation 
(1) or (2) the post may be filled substantively and the 
employee appointed to holj it substantively shall acquire a 
lien on it; 

Piovided that the arrangements shall be reversed as soon 
ns suspended lien revives. 

Note : When a post is filled substantively under this regu- 
lation the appointment will be termed “provisional 
appointment", the employees appointed will hold a 
provisional lien on the post and that lien will be 
liable to suspension under sub-regulation (1), 


2144 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(b) Non-selection posts : Posts, promotion to which shall 
be made by seniority subject to rejection of the 
unfit. 


(3) An employee’s lien which has been suspended under 
sub-regulation (1) shall revive ns soon as he ceases to hold 
a lien on a post of the nature specified in clause (b) of 
sub-regulation (1). 

(6) An employee’s lien suspended under sub-regulalion (2) 
shall revive as soon as he ceases to be on deputation out 
of India or on foreign service or to hold a post in another 
cadre; 

Provided that a suspended Jien shall not revive because 
the employee takes leave if there is reason to believe that 
he may, on return from leave, continue to be on deputation 
out of India or on foreign service or to hold a post in 
another cadre and the total period of absence on duty may 
not fall short of three years or that he may hold substanlive- 
by a post of the nature specified in clause (a) or (b > of 
sub-regulation (1). 

15. Termination of Lien : 

( 1 ) An employee’s lion on a post may, in no circumstance- 
cs, be terminated, even with his consent, if the result shall 
be to leave him without a lien or a suspended lien upon a 
a permanent post. 

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 14, the lien of an employee holding substantive- 
ly a permanent post shall be terminated while on refused 
leave granted after the date of compulsory retirement. 

(31 An employee’s lien on a post shall stand terminated 
on his acquiring a lien on a permanent post (whether under 
the Central Government or State Government) outside the 
cadre on which he is borne. 

16. Transfer of Lien : 

Subject to the provisions of regulation 18, a competent 
authority may tranfser to another permanent post in the 
same cadre the lien of an employee who is not performing 
the duties of the post to which the lien relates, even if 
that lien has been suspended, 

17. Subscription to funds-. 

An employee may be required to subscribe to the Contri- 
butory Provident Fund or other similar funds in accordance 
with the regulations made in this behalf. 

18. Transfer and Training : 

(1) A competent authority may transfer an employee 
from one post to another provided that except; 

(a) on account of inefficiency or misbehaviour; or 

(b) o n his written request; 

an employee shall not be transferred substantively to or 
appointed to officiate in a post carrying less pay than the pay 
of the permanent post on which he holds a lien or would 
hold a lien had his lien not been suspended under regula- 
tion 14. 

(2) An employee shall be liable either to serve or undergo 
training or both anywhere in and outside India anq such 
employee shall execute a bond binding himself to serve the 
Commission after the completion of the training for such 
period as may be specified in this behalf by the Commission, 

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-regulations 
(1) and (2), where a cadre or service has been decentralised 
into two or more zones, the transfers shall normally be 
made within that zone. 

19. Seniority : 

Seniority of an employee shall be determined in the grade 
and cadre to which he belongs in accordance with the princi- 
ples as laid down in Annexure II appended to these regula- 
tions. 

20. Promotion : 

( 1 ) For the purpose of promotion, posts in the Commis- 
sion shall be classified into the following two categories, 
namely : — 

(ft) Selection posts : Posts, promotion to which shall be 
made by selection based on mcril with due regard 
to seniority. 


(2) Promotions shall be made in accordance with the 
regulations made in this behalf. 

21. Loan of Services of the Employees of the Commission 

on Foreign Service Terms : 

( 1 ) The permanent employees, and those temporary em- 
ployees of the Commission who have put in 3 years service 
in the Commission, may be allowed to go on deputation to 
other organisations. The deputation in each eaee, shall be 
approved by the Standing Committee or Commission and the 
period of deputation may be 2 years in the first instance. 
The model foreign service terms and conditions in such cases 
are given in Annexure III appended to these regulations and 
to the extent possible, the actual foreign service terms aud 
conditions should conform to the model terms : 

Provided that no employee will be allowed to proceed on 
deputation to private organisations. 

(2) In a case where the services of an employee have been 
placed at the disposal of an outside authority, he shall be 
entitled to all the protection or benefits aa would have been 
accrued to him had he been present in the Commission in 
accordance with the principles of “next below rule" under 
which the competent authority is empowered to specify posts 
outside the ordinary line of a service whereupon the employee 
belonging to that service would be entitled to receive the 
benefit of any officiating promotion he would have received 
in the normal line but for his being outside the normal 
line. 

Note : The intention underlying the next below rule is 
that an officer out Of his regular line should not 
suffer by forfeiting his promotion which he would 
otherwise have received, had he remained in his 
regular line. From that It follows that the fortuit- 
ous acting promotion of some one junior to an 
officer who is out of the regular line does not, in 
itself, give rise to a claim under the biexf below 
rule’. Before such a claim is established it should 
be necessary that all the officers senior to the 
officer who is out of the regular line have been 
given acting promotion and also the officer next 
below him unless in any case the acting promotion 
is not given because of inefficiency, unsuitability 
or leave. In the event of one of these three bars 
being applicable to the officer immediately below 
the officer outside bis regular line, then some other 
officer, even more junior should have received act- 
ing promotion and the officers, if any, in between 
should have been passed over for one of these 
reasons. 

22. No Objection Certificate for Registration with Employment 

Exchange : 

< 1 ) No employee of the Commission, whether permanent 
or temporary, shall be granted ‘No objection certificate’ for 
registration with the Employment Exchange for higher posts 
during the period of probation and ope year after successful 
completion of the period of probation. This restriction, how- 
ever, need not be made applicable, in the case — 

(i) employees belonging to Scheduled Castes or Schedul- 
ed Tribes possessing educational or technical quali- 
fications higher than those required for posts already 
held by them; 

(ii) employees holding posts, equivalent to Claes IV 
and who are educationally or technically qualified 
for higher posts; and 

(iii) employees reverted to a lower post otherwise than 
as a measure of penalty and whose emoluments 
have been reduced by more than 20 per cent. 

(2) Temporary employees may be granted ‘No objection 
certificate’ for registering their names with the Employment 
Exchanges for higher posts after they have completed their 
probation period successfully and have put in one year’s 
service thereafter if they possess qualifications for higher 
posts. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2145 


(3) Permanent employees may also be granted ‘No objec- 
tion certificate’ after they have completed probation period 
successfully and have put in one year’s service thereafter. 
The giant if such 'No objection certificate’ to permanent 
employees shall be subject to the following conditions, 
namely : — - 

(i) The employee should be registered only for a post 
higher than the one he is holding in the Commission. 
In cases of doubt as to whether the post for which 
a permanent employee intends to register his name 
with the Employment Exchange is higher than the 
one he is holding in the Commission the decision 
of the competent authority shall be final. 

(iil On being selected for appointment by a Govern- 
ment Department or any Public Sector Undertaking 
for the higher post, he may be treated as on foreign 
service, as per terms of foreign service specified by 
the Commission. On the expiry of period of foreign 
service, he should either revert to the Commission 
or resign his post held In the Commission. 

( iii ) Once an employee has reverted to the Commission, 
he should not be allowed a ‘No objection certificate’ 
to register his name once again for a period of 
atleast two years. 


23. Resignation : 

(1) The authority competent to accept resignation of an 
employee is the appointing authority. 

(2) (a) Every employee other than an employee on pro- 
bation, shall he required to give one month's notice in 
writing to the Commission while submitting his resignation : 

Provided that an employee who has been declared perma- 
nent shall be required to give three months’ notice. 

(b) If an employee leaves the service of the Commission 
without reauisite notice, then without nrejudice to any other 
action which may be taken against him, the Commission 
may deduct from his pay and allowances and any other 
personal claims due to him, a sum equivalent to his pay and 
allowances for the period of notice required under clause 
(a) or the unexpired period thereof. 

(3) Notwithstanding ihe provisions of sub-regulation (2), 
the appointing authority may. at its discretion, accept the 
resignation of the emolovee wilh immediate effect or with 
effect from any time before the expiry of the notice period, 
and may also waive the recovery from the employee's pay 
and allowances in lieu thereof. 

(4) In the case of an employee who Is engaged on work 
of importance and it would take time to make alternative 
arrangements for filling the post, jjie appointing authority 
may accept the resignation only after alternative arrangements 
have been made for filling up the post, even if this period 
exceeds the normal notice period of one month referred to 
in sub-regulation (2). 

(5) In the case of an employee, whose conduct is under 
inquiry, or who is under suspension, the resignation shall not 
ordinarily be accepted unless the appointing authority consi- 
ders that having regard to the merits of the disciplinary 
case, pending against him. it would be In the interest of the 
Commission to accept his resignation. 

Provided that if the authority competent to dismiss such 
an employee is higher than the appointing authority the 
orders of die former shall he obtained before the resignation is 
accepted by the appointing authority. 

(6) The authority competent to accept the resignation 
shall specify, in each case, the date from which the resigna- 
tion should become effective if not immediately. 


(7) A resignation becomes effective when it is accepted 
and the employee is relieved of his duties. Where a resigna- 
tion has not become effective and the employee wishes to 
withdraw it, the authority who accepted the resignation 
may cither peimit the employee to withdraw the resigna- 
tion or refuse the request for such withdrawal. 

Notf : Where a resignation has become effective, the 
acceptance of request for withdrawal of resignation 
amounts to re-employment. Tij such cases, the 
icstoiation of benefits of past service shall require 
prior concurrence of the Commission. 


24. To initiation of Service : 

(1) Except as may specifically be provided in the contract 
of service, the services of a temporary employee shall be 
liable to termination at any time without assigning any 
reasons by a notice in writing given either by the employee 
to the appointing authority or by the appointing authority 
to the employee and the period of such notice shall be one 
month; 


Provided that: the services of any such employee may be 
terminated forthwith and on such termination, the employee 
shall be entitled to claim a sum equivalent to the amount 
of his pay plus allowances for the period of the notice 
at the same rates at which he was drawing them immediately 
before the termination of his service, or, as the case may 
be, for the period by whieh such notice falls short of one 
month. 


Provided further that in the case of an employee who is 
under suspension or against whom disciplinary proceedings 
for imposition of major penally have been initiated, the 
issue of a notice by the employee for termination of his 
employment shall not cause the appointment to be terminat- 
ed, unless the appointing authority considers that it would 
be in the interest of the Commission to permit termination 
of the appointment. The termination of appoinment shall 
become effective only when such a termination is accepted 
by the appointing authority and f row such date as may be spe- 
cified by the appointing authority. If the authority competent 
to dismiss such an employee is higher than the appointing 
authority, the orders of the former shall be obtained before 
the resignation is accepted by the appointing authority. 


(21(a) where a notice is given by the appointing authority 
terminating the services of a temporary employee or where 
the service of any such employee are terminated either 
on the expiry of the period of such notice or forthwith 
by payment of pav plus allowances, the Commission or anv 
other authority specified by the Commission in this behalf 
may, of its own motion or otherwise re-open the case, arid 
after colling fog the records of the case and after making 
such inquiry as it deems fit. 

(i) confirm the action taken by the appointing 
authority; 

(ii) withdraw the notice; 

(iii) reinstate the employee in service; or 

(iv) make such other order in the case as it may 
consider proper; 

Provided that except in special circumstances which should 
be recorded in writing, no case shall be re-opened under 
this sub-regulation after the expiry of three months; 

(i) from the date of notice, in a case where notice 
is given; 

(ii) from the date of termination of service in a case 
where no notice is given. 


2146 THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part 111— Sec. 4 


(b) where an employee is reinstated in service under 
item (iii) of clause (a), the order of reinstatement shall 
specify ; — 

(i) the amount or proportion of pay and allowances, 
if any, to be paid to the employee for the period 
of his absence between the date of termination of 
his services and the date of his reinstatement; and 

(ii) whether the said period shall be treated as a 
period spent on duty for any specified purpose or 
purposes, 

(3) Nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the 
power of the appointing authority in taking action against 
the employees under regulation 6 of the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission (Medical Examination of Employees) 
Regulations, 1965. 

25- Retirement : 

(1) Every employee, other than those referred to In sub- 
regulation (2) below shall retire from the afternoon of th* 
last day of the month in which he attains the age of 
58 years. 

(2) An employee whose maximum of the scale of pay 
is Rs. 154/- or less shall be retained in service till the 
afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains 
the age of sixty years. 

(3) An employee to whom sub-regulation (1) applies 
may be granted extension of service after ho attains the 
age of retirement as specified therein, with the sanction of 
the Commission, if such extension is in the interest of the 
Commission and th© grounds therefor are recorded in 
writing. 

Provided that no extension under this sub-regulation shall 
be granted for a period exceeding two years, except in 
very special circumstances, 

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation, 
the appointing authority shall, if it Is of the opinion that 
it is in the commission’s interest to do so, have the absolute 
right to retire any employee after he has attained the age 
of fifty years, by giving him notice of not less than three 
months’ in writing or three months’ pay and allowances in 
lieu of such notice. 

Provided that nothing in this sub-regulatioq shall apply 
to employees referred to in sub-regulation (2) who entered 
the Commission’s service on or before the date on which 
these regulations come into force. 

(5) Any employee may by giving notice of not less than 
three months in writing to the appointing authority retire 
from service after he has attained the age of fifty years. 

Provided that — 

(a) nothing in this sub-regulation shall apply to an 
employee referred to in sub-regulallon (2) who 
entered the Commission’s service on or before the 
date on which these regulations conic into force; 

and 

(b) if shall be open to the appointing authority to 
withhold permission to a n employee under suspen- 
sion who seeks to retire under this sub-regulation. 


26. Rc- Appointment : 

( 1 ) No person who has been dismissed from the service 
of the Commission Or Government or Public Undertakings 
or local authorities or body corporate shall be re-employed. 

A person who has been compulsorily retired or removed 
from service may be re-employed with the prior approval of 
the Commission or Government as the case may be. 

(2) An appointing authority may re-employ a person who 
has resigned from service or whose services have been ter- 
minated under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 24 in con- 
sultation with the authority under whom he was previously 
working. 

27. Share In any Contract : 

No person, who directly or indirectly by himself or his 
agent has any share or interest in any contract by or on 
behalf of the Commission or in any employment under the 
Commission, otherwise than as an employee thereof, shall 
become or remain in employ of the Commission and the 
decision of the Commission as to whether a person has any 
such interest will be final. 

28. Bar against Employment after Retirement : 

No person who has retired from the service of the 
Commission, after such retirement, shall accept any appoint- 
ment or post whether advisory or administrative, in any 
firm or company whether Indian or Foreign with which 
the Commission has or had business relations, within two 
years from the date of his retirement, without prior approval 
of the Commission. 

20, Recoi d of Sendee : 

A record of the particulars of service of each employee 
shall he maintained in the service Book or Service sheet 
of the employee in such form and In such manner as may 
be specified by the Commission from time to time. 

30. Saving-. 

Nothing in these regulations shall affect reservations and 
other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of 
persons in accordance with the orders issued bv the Govern- 
ment from time to time, and adopted by the Commission. 

31. Interpretation : 

If any doubt arises regarding the interpretation of any 
provision of these regulations, the matter shall be referred 
to the Director of Personnel who shall decide the .same in 
consultation with the Director of Finance and Accounts. 
However, the finance need not be consulted in a matter 
which has no financial implication. 

32. Relaxation ; 

Where the Commission is satisfied that the operation of 
any regulation or provision regulating the conditions of 
service of its employees Or any class of such employees 
causes undue hardship in any particular case, it may, by 
order, dispense with or relax the requirements of that 
regulation or provision to such extent and subject to such 
conditions a® it may consider necessary for dealing with the 
case in a just and equitable manner. 

K. K. DHAR, 
Secretary to the Commission 


Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2U7 


ANNEXURE I 


(a) the Director of Personnel — -for all former class I 
and II officers and centralised category of former 
class III posts : 


(Regulation 11) 

PRINCIPLES FOR PERMANENCY 
1, A. Dedaring Employees as Permanent : 

General Principles ; 

(d) Employees may be declared permanent strictly 
according to their seniority in the cadre. 

(b) Two or more employees of the Commission can- 
not be declared permanent against the same post 
at the same time, 

(c) No Government servant on Foreign Service or 
the Commission may be declared pormanent if he 
holds a lien on a permanent post in Central Gov- 
ernment or State Government Departments. 

(d) An employee of the Commission cannot be de- 
clared permanent against two or more permanent 
posts at the same time. 

(e) Employees may be declared permanent with retros- 
pective effect, provided that : 

(i) a permanent post existed on the date; 

(ii) the employee concerned was working in the 
grade on that date; 

(iii) where an employee under suspension is re- 
instated and it is decided to treat the period 
of suspension as duty for all purposes, the 
employee may be declared permanent from 
the date on which he would have been nor- 
mally confirmed even though he was under 
suspension on that date. 

B. Suitability and Fitness : 

Before declaring permanent, competent authority shall 
satisfy itself that the person concerned has — 

(i) character, conduct and work to render him suitable 
for permanent retention in the service of the 
Commission; 

(ii) passed the specified departmental tests, if any; 

(iii) been examined by on appropriate medical authority 
and found fit; 

(iv) completed satisfactorily his probation period; 

(v) completed 3 years’ service in the Commission in 
the grade in which the employee Is to be confirmed, 

C. Seew Ity of Service and Benefits . 

Tf there is reduction in the Establishment of the Commis- 
sion, the service of a permanent employee shall not be 
liable to termination so long as any post of the same grade 
held by him, continues to be held by an employee not in 
» permanent service in the Commission. 

D. The competent authority for declaring employees perma- 
shall be, — 

2— 369GI/75 


Provided that in the case of Class I posts, appro- 
val of appointing authority will be obtained; and 

(b) the Director of Personnel or the Geneial Manager — 
for all former class m and IV decentralised cate- 
gory of posts of their respective regions ; 

Provided that the allocation of posts to be dc- 
clatcd permanent will be made by the Headquar- 
ters. 

2. ( 1 ) Confirmation of employees against permanent posts 
in disregard of the above provisions shall be erroneous. 
Confirmation shall be cencelled if the order of confirma- 
tion was clearly contrary to these regulations. 

(a) if the order of confirmation was made when there 
was no substantive vacancy and the confirming 
authority had no power to create the post in which 
the officer was continued. 

(b) if the order of confirmation was made in error, 
e g., naming wrong person; mistake in identity. 

(2) Orders of confirmation in the above mentioned cases 
arc void abinitio and the employee does not acquire any 
right to hold the post in which the order purported to con- 
firm him. Therefore (he procedure of “show cause notice” 
is not required to be followed before cancelling the order of 
confirmation. 


ANNEXURE II 
(Regulation 19) 

PRINCIPLES FOR SENIORITY 

The following principles will be followed for regulating 
the seniority of the employees in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission 

A. Direct Recruits 

(i) The inter-se-seniority of candidates selected on 
any one occasion shall be determined in the order 
of merit in which they are placed by the selection 
committee, 

(ii) Where persons recruited initially on probation, are 
confiimed subsequently, in an order different from 
the order of merit indicated at the time of their 
selection, seniority shall follow the order of con- 
flimation and not the original order of merit. 

In cases whore the period of probation of an 
employee is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the em- 
ployee is subsequently exonerated, his probation 
will be regularised from the date on which it 



2148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


divided into different cadres on regional, project 
or Directorate basis, eligible persons shall be 
placed in separate lists in order of their intcr-se- 
senionty in the respective grades or cadres. 


would have otherwise been regularised but for the 
pendency of the vigilance or disciplinary case. 

(in) The candidates who are offered the appointments 
in the Commission against direct recruitment quota 
shall be asked to join within 11 months from the 
date of leceipt of offer in order to retain their 
seniority. When a candidate at the time of 
applying or Interview Indicates, that he would need 
more time and this fact Is duly noted when placing 
him on the selection list, he may be allowed to 
join within a maximum period of 100 days from 
the date of issue of the order. If, however, the 
candidate is an employee of the Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission and cannot join within the afore- 
said period of one and half months, on account of 
exigencies of work then the appointing authority 
may, if it is satisfied that the candidate is unable 
to join duty in the exigencies of the Commission's 
work, extend the period within which the candidate 
would be permitted to join without losing his 

seniority by a maximum of two months (in addi- 
tion to 13 months allowed to outsiders), 

(iv) Such Government officers and employees as are 

selected in direct competition through open adver- 
tisement hut are appointed on foreign service terms 
shall he deemed to be direct recruits for the pur- 
pose of determination of their seniority in the 

Commission. 

.Seniority of such persons once determined, shaB 

not he affected by their retirement from the 

parent-office, if they continue in the Commission’s 
employment beyond such retirement. 

(v) Government pensioners and retrenched employees, 
who are intially re-employed in the Commission 
after their retirement or retrenchment, shall also 
be treated as direct recruits for the purposes of 
determination of seniority. 

B. Departmental Promotes • 

(i) The inter-se-seniority of departmental candidates 
selected for promotion o n any single occasion shall 
be determined in the order of their selection as 
recommended by the Departmental Promotions 
Committee. 

(ii) Where persons promote^ initially on probation are 
confirmed subsequently in an order different from 
the order of merit decided at the time of their 
promotion, seniority shall follow the order of con- 
firmation and not the original order of merit. 

Tn ca^os where the period of probation of an 
employee is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the em- 
ployee i s subsequently exonerated, his probation 
will be regulated from (he date on which it would 
have otherwise been regularised but for the pen- 
dency of the vigilance or disciplinary case, 

( ii*) Where promotions to a grade are made either 
from more than one grade, or from the same grade 


(a) If the promotion is to be made on the basis of 
merit alone, the Departmental Promotion Com- 
mittee shall prepare a ‘Select list’ on the 
basis of meiit. Promotion shall be made from 
this ‘Select list’ in the order in which the names 
have been so finally arranged; 

(b) If, however, the promotion is to be made on 
the basis of seniority-cum-fltness, i.e. seniority 
subject to the rejection of unfit, the Depart- 
mental Promotion Committee shall place the 
candidates from the various lists into one “con- 
solidated seniority list” based on the total length 
of service rendered in that grade or cadre and 
make recommendations for promotion on the 
basis of this “consolidated list”. The intcr-se- 
senority of the candidates in their respective 
lists will not be disturbed in the “consolidated 
list”. 


C. Relative Seniority of Direct Recruits and Departmental 
Promotees ; 

(1) When the vacancies on any one occasion are reserv- 
ed for departmental promotion and direct recruit- 
ment, names of the promotees shall be released 
first and they shall be promoted accordingly. The 
names of the direct recruits shall be released there- 
after and appointments made, subsequently. In case 
the Departmental Promotion Committee panel is 
not available, the vacancies for direct recruitment 
will not be filled on regular basis, Instead, offi- 
ciating arrangements shall be made. 

(ii) Amongst the departmental promotees and direct 
recruits so appointed on any single occasion the 
departmental promotees shall be treated as senior 
enbloc to the direct recruits. 

D. Ad-hoc Appointments : 

Persons appointed or piomoted to a grade on an ad-hoc 
basis shall be replaced by candidates approved for regular 
appointment or promotion as soon as possible. In the event 
of regularisation of their appointment, they shall take their 
place in the seniority list with reference to their regular selec- 
tion or promotion. 

E. Contingent Employees ; 

In the case of employees, who are recruited initially on 
contingent basis, and are brought to the regular establishment 
of the Commission later, the seniority shall be fixed with 
reference to the date of their regularisation and order of 
selection determined at the time of regularisation. Where, 
however, the order of merit is not so determined, the inter- 
se-seniority of the candidates, brought on to the regular 
establishment on the same date, will be decided on the basis 



2149 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1397) 


of the date of their continuous employment on contingent 
basis prior to such regnlarisation. If the date of employment 
on contingent basis is also the same, the candidate older in 
age shall be deemed to be senior. 

F. Dcputaltonists : 

Seniority of a Government servant, whose services me 
obtained by the Commission on deputation terms is not re- 
quired to be determined vis-a-vis the employees of the_Com- 
mission. 

In the event of the eventual absorption of an officer on 
deputation, on termination of his lien in his parent depart- 
ment by retirement, resignation or otherwise, his seniority 
vis-a-vis Commission's employees will be fixed from the date 
of eventual absorption in the Commission. 

G. Seniority of decentralised Cadres. 

(a) The seniority in respect of decentralised cadres will 
be maintained regionwise. and in respect of former 
Class IV staff, office-wise. 

(b) In the event of transfer of an employee belonging 
to decentralised cadres, in the interest of the Com- 
mission, from one office to th e other, or from one 
region to the other legion, the seniority of the 
employee will be retained in his original regions, 
and the employee will be considered for promo- 
tion in his turn, in his parent regiofl. 

(c) When such an employee is due for promotion, to 
the next h'gher post, in his parent region, he will 
be posted back to that region. In case, on account 
of exigencies of work, it is not possible to post 
the employee back to the region of his original 
posting, the employee will be given proforma pro- 
motion, if he is approved for promotion and the 
candidate next below him in the region will be pro- 
moted to fill that vacancy; 

(d) Where the Commission decides that the employee 
concerned should go back to his parent region on 
promotion, and he refuses to do so, proforma pro- 
motion will not be given to him. 

(e) In case, an employee belonging to a decentralised 
cadre, is transferred at his own request, from one 
region to another, his name will be struck off and 
he will be placed at the bottom in the seniority list 
of the region to which he is transferred. 

H. Fixation of seniority on absorption of employees from one 
cadre to another : 

The following criteria shall be taken into account in fix- 
ing seniority of employees absorbed in a cadre other than 
the one to which they belong ; — 

(i) The Commission will be free to transfer employees 
from one cadre to another temporarily on admi- 
nistrative grounds, e.g. transfer of work, non-avail- 
ability of suitable men. 


(ii) Such employees will relain their lien and seniority 
in the parent cadres and will have no right for 
absorption in the cadres to which they are trans- 
ferred temporarily. 

(iii) If, as a very special case, they ri* to be consi- 
dered for absorption in the cadres to which they aie 
temporarily transferred, their seniority will count 
only from the date of their transfer to the cadre 
in which they are actually working (at the time 
their absorption is considered) so as not to preju- 
dice the rights and. seniority of the personnel al- 
ready recruited or promoted to these cadres; even 
those recruited and promoted to these cadies on 
the day the personnel from other cadres are trans- 
ferred will all rank senior to the personnel trans- 
ferred from the other cadres. 


ANNEXURE Til 
(Regulation 21) 

MODEL TERMS OF FOREIGN SERVICE FOR THE 

OFFICERS SENT ON DEPUTATION OUTSIDE THE 
COMMISSION 

( I ) Period of Deputation : 

The period of deputation will ordinarily be two years but 
it may be extended, with the concurrence of the foreign 
service employer upto a maximum period of five years. The 
period of deputation will begin from the date of handing 
over charge of the post in the Commission and end on the 
date of takingover charge to the post in Commission after 
levcrsion fiom foreign service. The deputation may. how- 
ever, be terminated by giving one months notice either by 
Ihc Commission or by the foreign employer. 

At the end of the deputation period, the officer will have 
to decide either to reveit back to the Commission or to get 
absorbed in the borrowing organisation or Department of 
Government. 


If a permanent employee of the Commission is selected 
for a post under the Government (including a State Govern- 
ment) or in any other Public Sector Undertaking, he may 
be allowed to retain his lien for a maximum period of two 
years, subject to the condition thjit during the period for 
which he retains bis lien in the Commission his pay in the 
new organisation would not be more than what he wou'd 
have drawn in the Commission plus the usual deputation al- 
lowance. Also, the new employer of the employee himself 
agrees to pay contributions towards the leave salary, pen- 
sion, gratuity and provident funds of the employee, to the 
Commission. 



2150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897)[Part III— Sec. 4 


(2) Pay : 

During the period of deputation, the officer, will have 
the option either to draw pay in the scale of the post to 
which he is transferred or apopinted or to draw pay ctf the 
post held by him in the Commission plus a deputation (duty) 
allowance in accordance with and subject to the conditions 
of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance O.M. No. 
10(24)/E-IIT/60 dated 4th May, 1961 as modified fromi 
time to time and such other general or special orders issue 
by the Government of India under para l(iii) of that Office 
Memorandum. If an employee goes to another organisation 
in an equivalent post, no deputation (duty) allowance will 
be allowed. 

(3) Dearness Allowance : 

The officer will be entitled to dearness allowance under 
the rules of the Commission or under the rules of the bor- 
rowing organisation or Government according as he retains 
his scale of pay under the Commission or he draws pay in 
the scale attached to the deputation post. 

(4) Local Allowances : 

Payment of Compensatory Allowances, House Rent Allow- 
ance and other local allowances should be regulated under 
the rules of the borrowing organisation or Government. 

(5) Joining Time Pay and Transfer Travelling Allowance : 

The officer will be entitled to Travelling Allowance and 
joining time both on joining the post on deputation and on 
i eversion therefrom to the Commission under the rules of 
the borrowing organisation or Government. 

(6) Travelling Allowance or Conveyance Allowance for 
Journeys on Duty during deputation ; 

To be regulated under the rules of the borrowing organi- 
sation or Government. 

(7) Leave or Pension or Gratuity or Provident Fund : 

The officer will continue to be governed by the Leave, 
Pension, Gratuity and Provident Fund Regulations of the 
Commission. 


Contributions towards Leave Salary, Pension Gratuity 
and Provident Fund should be recovered from the borrow- 
ing organisation or Government at appropriate rates. 

(8) Children's Education Allowance or Assistance, Leave 
Travel Concession and Medical Facilities : 

The officer will be entitled to these concessions or facilities 
on the scale admissible under ,the rules of the borrowing 
organisation or Government or the Commission as may be 
opted by {iim and the cost of such concession or facilities 
should be borne by the borrowing organisation or Govern- 
ment. 

(9) Extra-Ordinary Pension or Gratuity or Compensation : 

The borrowing organisation or Government will be res- 
ponsible for the paypient of extra- ordinary pension or Gra- 
tuity or Compensation that may be admissible under the 
rules of the Commission or any other statutory Act or 
Rules (e.g. Workmens Compensation Act, Employees State 
Insurance Act) if any injury is sustained or death during 
the period of deputation. 

(10) Liability for Disability Leave : 

The borrowing organisation or Government will be liable 
to pay leave salary (including allowances') In respect of dis- 
ability leave granted to the officer on account of any dis- 
ability incurred while on deputation even if such disability 
manifests itself after the termination of the deputation pe- 
riod. 


(11) Liability for Payment of Dearness Allowance, Com- 
pensatory Allowance, House Rent Allowance and other 
Local Allowances during the period of Leave : 

All allowances payable during the periods of leave avail- 
ed of by the officer while cm deputation including the leave 
taken at the end of foreign service shall be paid by the 
borrowing organisation or Government. 

(12) Residential Accommodation : 

The officer will pay rent for the accommodation provided, 
if any, according to the rules of the borrowing organisation 
or Government 



Part ffl— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2151 

. __ , • ■ — _ _ . . — — 

CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 


Particulars: — B-Bombay ; : C-Calcutta; : M-Madras U — Certificate for unrestricted public exhibition. 

A — Certificate for public exhibition restricted to adults 
i.e. persons who have completed 18th Years. 


Application Name of the film with Length Of the Name of the persons Name of the persons Nature of 
No. language and country film in metres or Co, applying for the or Co. who have Pro- certificate 

of origin and no. reels, certificate with address, duced the film with granted 

address and date 

of certi- 


ficate issued 
or date on 
which 
was 
refused 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Film Censors dwing the 

week ending 9th February, 1974 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


(5) (6) (7) 


B/71181 

B/70833 

B/71203 

B/71161 

B/71132 

B/70673 


“Haryana at Asia-72’ 1 
(Hin.)(Col.)(35mm.) 

337 41 
(2) 

M/s Shyam Benegal, 
Sahyadri Films, 

Jyoti Studios, Ken- 
nedy Bridge, Bom- 
bay-7. 

“Baghi Quwai” (Hin.) 
(Col.)(33mm.) 

606 -00(2) 

Parvinkumar, Rajas- 
tan Guest House, 
V.R. Rd., Old Khar, 
Bombay-52 

“Twice As Good” 
(Eng,)(Col.)(33mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

M/s Film 5, Jyoti 
Studio, Kennedy 

Bridge Bombay-7. 

"Vision USA-18" 

(Eug.)(Col.X16mm.) 

245 -36(1) 

United States Infor- 
mation Service. 4, 
New Marine Lines, 
Bombay-20. 

"Vision USA-17” 
(Eng.) (CoLXIfimm.) 
(USA) 

267 -00(1) 

-do- 

“Chaudhary Harphul 
Singh (Jat Julani 
WaTa) (Haryanvi) 

(B/W)(35mm.) 

3631 ’07(14) 

Karnboj, Films, Nav- 
joevan Society, 

Lamington Rd., 

Bombay-4. 


U P. E. 

M/s Shyam Bengal, 74310 


Sahyadri Film 


Jyoti Studios Ken- 

4-2-74 

nedy Bridge, Bom- 


bay-7 



U 

S. Mehboob, Rajastan 

74311 

Guest House, S.V. - 


Rd., Khar, Bom- 

4-2-74 

bay-52. 



U 

M/s Film 5, Jyoti 

74312 

Studio, Kennedy - 


Bridge, Bombay-7. 

4-2-74 


U 

Thomas Craven. 

74313 P.E. 


4-2-74 


U 

-do- 

74314 P.E. 


4-2-74 


U 

Ranjeet Choudhary, 743 1 5 With triangle mark. 

Hamam Choudhary. — 

5-2-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3712 -64m. 
Cut Reel 


No. No. 

1. II 

2. VI 


3. VII 


4 . IX 

5. IX 

6. XI 

7. XIII 

8. XIII 

9. XIV 


: Delete the symbolic shot of ‘Okhah’ and kiss between the mother and father of Harphul Singh. 
—2 -89m. 

: (a) Delete the portion of the first shot where Harphul is Seen lying in the field with his girl friend— 3 '73m. 

(b) In the scene of Harphul fighting two brothers, reduce the fight, deleting hard hitting shots and reducing 
fights with farm implements and strangulations — 10 06m. (Length retained; 44 -80 m.) 

(c) Reduce the shot of dying expression on Harphul’s brother’s face and the tilt down where blood is seen 
pouring out of the wound. Also delete vomitting of blood by the same brother. — 19 -20m. 

: Reduce the impact of violence in the scene of killing of brother-in-law falling to the ground. Delete the 
killing of three police constablos, keeping only the exchange of fire for the continuity of story— 14 ’02m. 
(Length retained: 1 -22m.) 

: Reduce the fight between Mittukhan and Harphul. singh. — 4 -83m. (Length retained: 20 -47m.) 

: In the sequence of cow-slaughter, delete both the shots of weapons being rafsed at the cows and killing of 
butchers by Harphul — 6 Cum. 

: Reduce the impact of killing by deleting shots of police officer falling down after ho has been hit by a 
bullet,— 1 -33m. (Deleted completely) 

: Reduce fight in the jail compound by deleting violent shots — 5 -48m. (Length retained: 3 -36m.) 

: Delete the killing of police officer and Ranjeet — 5 *62m. 

: Reduce shots of blood smeared back of Harphul aftor he is shot by police— 7 '69ni. 

(Length retained: Nil) (Deleted completely). 

Length of deletions : 81 '57m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be'. 3631 ’07m. in 14 Reels. 



2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHA YANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

B/71119 

“Excerpts Of "Ek 

Adhuri Kahani” 

(Hin.)(35mm,) 

741 -15(3) 

Arun Kaul, 27-Western 
India House, S.P.M. 
Road, Fort Bombay-1. 

Arun Kaul, 27 -Western 
India House, Fort — - 
Bombay-1 . 

B/71255 

“Trailer of Hindustan 
Ki Kasam” (Hin.) 
(CoI.)(35mm.) 

60-00(1) 

Sneh Films, 242- 

Famous Cine Bldg,, 
Bombay-1 1 . 

Snob Films, 242- 
Famous Cine Bldg., — — 
Bombay-11. 

B/71215 

"Haryana Samachar 
Darshan No. 12" 

(Hin.)(35mm.) 

273 -10(1) 

R, P. KoSri, Deputy 
Director, PUb. Rela- 
tion, Haryana. 

Shri Ashok Pahwa, 

Dir. of Pub, Relation. — — 

B/71252 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1321” (35mm.) 

207 -00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Filins Division, Bom- 
bay-26. — 

B/71113 

“Recorded In Hoechst” 
(Eng.) (Col,)(16mm.) 
(W.G.) 

310 00(1) 

Hoechst Pharmaceuti- 
cal Ltd., Backbay 
Reclamation, B’bay-20 

Farbwerke Hoechst AG- 

B/71112 

“The Years Decision” 
(Eng.) (Col.)(l6mm.) 
(AG.)(W.G.) 

247 00(1) 

-do- 

-do- 

B/71208 

"The Vintage” (Aus- 
tralian Colour Diary 
No. 40)(Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm.)(Austraha) 

75 -00(1) 

Australian High Com- 
mission, Now Delhi-21 

Australian Common- 
wealth Film Unit. — 

B/71207 

“Introducing Austra- 
lian Football" (Eng.) 
(Col.) (16mrn.) 

(Australia). 

255 00(1) 

-do- 

-do- 

B/71205 

“Incrodlble Floridas” 
(Eng.) (Col.)(16mm.) 
(Australia) 

122 -00(1) 

-do- 

-do- 

B/71163 

“Spot Prevention” 

(Measles) (Eng.) 

(Col.)(l 6mm.)(USA) 

152-40(1) 

National Edu. of In- 
formation Film Ltd. 

National Medical 

Audio-visual Centre. — 

B/71168 

“Management of the 
Leprosy Patient" 
(Eng.)(Col.)(l 6mm.) 

213 -36(1) 

-do- 

-do- 

B/7U70 

“Crane Operations: 
Floating Cranes” 

(Eng.)(16mm.)(USA) 

182-88(1) 

-do- 

U.S. Navy 

B/71228 

“Influenza Virus Iso- 
lation" (Eng.)(Col.) 
(16mtn.)(USA) 

60 -96(1) 

National Education 
of Information Films 
Ltd., National 

House, Tullach 

Road, Bombay-1 . 

National Medical 

Audio Visual Centre. 

B/71206 

“Irrigation : The Ord 
River Scheme and 
M. I. A. (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm,)(Australia) 

184-00(1) 

Australian High 

Commission, New 
Dclhi-21. 

Australian Common- 
wealth Film Unit. — 

B/71251 

“Baba Sheikh Farid” 
(Eng,)(33mm.) 

461 -77(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Bom- 
bay-26. — 

B/71245 

"Tr. of Quaidi No. 
911” (Hin.)(35mm.) 

67 -06(1) 

Asian Film Corpora- 
tion Alankar Cinema 
Bldg., Bombay-4. 

Super Pictures, Manek 

Chambers, Laming 

ton Rd., Bombay-4. 

B/71229 

“Introduction To 

Analogue Computer 
Part I, 11 & III” 
(Eng,) (Col.)(16mm.) 
(USA) 

1330-15(3) 

National Edu. & In- 
formation Films 

Ltd,, National Houso, 
Tulloch Road, Bom- 
bay-1. 

U.S. Atomic Energy 
Commission. — 


(6) (7) 


U) 

74316 

5-2-74 

U 

74317 

5-2-74 

U 

74318 


6-2-74 

U 

74319 (Valid for En g „ Hin. 

-> Mar., Guj., Tam., 

6-2-74 Tel., Kan., Mai. 

Asam., Orlya, Pun., 
Ben., Kash., Urdu 
& Sindhf. 

U 

74320 Not PE. 


6-2-74 

U 

74321 Not PE. 


6-2-74 

U 

74322 Not PE. 


7-2-74 


U 

74323 PE 


7-2-74 


U 

74324 Not PE. 


7-2-74 

U 

74325 PE. 


7-2-74 

U 

74326 PE 

7-2-74 

U 

74327 PE 


7-2-74 

U 

74328 PE 


7-2-74 


U 

74329 PE, 


7-2-74 

U 

74330 PE 


7-2-74 

U 

74331 

7-2-74 

U 

74332 PE. 
7-2-74 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2153 









(1) 

(2) (3) 

(4) 


(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


u 

B/70800 "My Friend” (Hindi) 3934-36(15) Poonam Pictures, Mr. Poonambhal Shah 74333 With triangle mart. 

(Colour) (35mm.) Pvt., Ltd., 144, Or. Mr, Narayanbhai J. — 

D.N. Rd., Bombay-1. Patel 8-2-74 

Endorsement. : 

Original Length : 3934 -36m. 

Cut. No. Reel No. 

1. IV : Delete the underlined words from the following sentence said by Premanand to the girl: 

“Merc Prom-khanc men ayee, app ko kis par bittavo”. 

( Deleted sound) (Replaced with approved wcids) 

2. VII : In the cabret sequence, delete the view of a man placing his hand on the bare thigh of Julie — 1 -22m. 

(Replaced with approved shots: 1 -22m.) 

The length of the film remains unchanged. l.e. 3934 -36m. in 15 reels. 

U 

B/71186 Pahola Woh Ghar 281 -94(1) Sundeep, 5-1 Naaz Sundeep, 5-1 Naaz 74334 Not PF. 

Khuda Ka" (Urdu) Cinema Bldg., Bom- Cinema Bldg., Bom- — — — — 

(Col.)(35mm.) bay.4 bay-4. 8-2-74 

U 

B/71268 “Flame of Persia" 1828-80(6) IMP Consulate Gene- Ministry of Art & 74335 

(Eng.)(Col.)(35mm.) ral of Iran, Bombay, Calture of Iran ■ . — - — - — 

8-2-74 

A 

B/70798 “Aangse Ang Lagale” 3799 -75(14) Shlvkumar Produc- Shivkumar. 3215 With triangle mark. 

(Hin,)(Col.)(35mm,) tions, 8-Rawal Cham- 

bers, Pare), Bom- 5-2-74 

bay-12. 

Endorsement : 

Original Length: 3828 -30m. 

Cut Reel 
No No. 

1. V : Reduce the scene in which the mother whips Rajosh with a belt.— 0 -98m. 

(Length retained: 12 -19m.) 

2. IX : Delete the shot in which Salomi kisses Surjit on the cheek.— 0 -26m. 

(Replaced with approved shots: 0-26m.) 

3. IX (i) Redeuce the scene in which Rajosh moves his lips over Salomi’s right hand and Surjit moves his lips 

on her left hand. — 3 -83m. 

(Length retained : 3 -43m.) 

(ii) Delete the following dialogue: “The strangont kind of orgy.” 2 -80m. 

4. X : Delete the last shot in which Nccla while lying with Rajesh on the cot turns over towards him revealing 

her bare back — 3 -96m, 

5. XIV : Reduce the scene of operation on Rajosh deleting close-ups of his blood-smeared face and/or the profile 

1 7 -48m. 

Length of deletions : 28 -81m. 

Length of approved replacement : 0 -26m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations wilt be: 3799 15m. lit 14 reels. 

Endorsement Under Rule 34 
B/71218-19 

Film: “Breakthrough” (Eng.) 

U-Cert. No, 74191 of 11-1-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Marathi and Gujarati versions of the film. The longth of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 5th February, 1974. 

B/71219 

Film: “Doctor In the House” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 64408 of 6-11-1971. 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th February, 1974. 

B/71012 

Film: “Akbar” (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 51624 of 22-8-1967. 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 7th February, 1974. 

B/71014 

Film; “Ahmad Jaan Thirakwa" (Hindi) (35mm.) 

U-Cert. No. 64038 of 9-9-1971. 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate wag endorsed on 7th February, 1974. 



2154 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part UI— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


B/71012 

Film: "Transcendenct” (Eng.) (35mm,) 

U-Cert. No. 70343 of 19-7-J972. 

This certificate Is also valid for French version of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 7th February, 1974. 

B/63891 

Film: ‘‘Steel A Whole Now Way of Life” (Eng.)(Col.) 

U-Cert. No. 64136 of 22-9-1971 
Delotcd various shots: 21-80m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 547 '57m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 8th February, 1974. 

B/70980 

Film: “Indian News Review No. 1314” (Southern Edition), 

U-Cert. No. 74094 of 19-12-1973. 

Deleted various shots: 204 -53m, 

Added various shots: 203 -53m, 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will bo: 295 00w, 

This certificate was endorsed on 8th February, 1974. 


C/7965 

C-7968 

M/8411 

M/8351 


Sharmila (Bengali) 


Natun Pasal-Natun 
Asha (Bengali)(Col.) 


‘Kallyuga Kankanda 
Dcivam’ (Tamil) 
35mm. B&W. India 

‘Aada Pillalu Ardha 
Ratrl Hatyalu’ 

(Tolugu)35mm. B&W 


Week ending 9th February, 1974. 

3520-44(14) Cino Koality 57, Cine Koallty 57. 

Lenin Sarani, Cal-13 Lenin Saranl, Cal-13. 


609 -60(20) Look Publicity 

Week Ending Saturday 22-2-74 


Director of Agriculture 
Govt, of W. Bengal 


600 -00(2) Shri S. Durga Rao, Shri S. Durga Rao, 
Madras. Madras. 


3714 -28(14) Sridhar Kalamandir, Dr. M. V. Gopala Rao, 
Madras. Madras. 


U 

73372 

6- 2-74 
U 

73373 

7- 2-74 


U 

67411 


5-2-74 

U 

67412 With cuts. 


5-2-74 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67412-U dt. 5-2-74 issued to the film ‘Aada Pillalu Ardha Ratri Hatyalu’ (Telugu). 
Length applied. 3714 -27 Metres. 

Cuts : Mts. 

Reel 4 — Song Delete song-text in full. (Replaced with approved song-text-Sound only) 

Actual length oj the film remains same, namely 3714-28 Mts, In 14 Reels 

U 

67413 


M/8420 

‘Sroe Krishna Leelai’ 
(Tamil) 35mm. B&W 
India 

304 -80(1) 

Anand Arts, Madras. 

Shri R. Narasimha Rao 
Madras 

M/8432 

‘Urvashi’ (Kannada) 
35mm. B&W India 

3809-38(15) 

Kalpataru Films, 

Bangalore 

Kalpataru 

Bangalore 

Films, 

M/8435 

‘Gandadha Gudl — 

100th Day Celebra- 
tion’ (Kannada) 

35mm. B&W. India, 

415-00(2) 

Bharani Chitra, 

Mysore 

Shri M. P, Shankar. 
Mysore 

M/8401 

‘Mister Sundari’ 

(Re-revised) (Mala- 
yalam) 35mm. B&W 
India 

3038-55(14) 

Reeta Enterprises, 

Madras 

Smt. T. 
Madras 

Komalam, 

M/8433 

‘Dhruva Vijayam’ 

(Telugu) 35mm.B&W 

4070 -90(14) 

Mukunda Movies, 
Madras 

Mukunda 

Madras. 

Movies, 


5- 2-74 
U 

67414 

6- 2-74 
U 

67415 


6- 2-74 
U 

67416 

7- 2-74 
U 

67417 With cuts. 


8-2-74 


Endorsement on cert. No 67417 U dt. 8lh February 1974 issued to film ‘Dhruva Vijayam’ (Telugu) 35mm. B&W. 
Length applied — 4071 -81 Mts. 

CUt \. Reel 6 — Delete the shot of the snake actually biting Uttam. 0-91 

2. Reel 10 — Delete the old man describing Narada Mabarishi as "Kothala Rayudu" — 

(Sound only — replaced approved words) 


Total 


0-91 


Actual length is 4070 -90 Mts. In 14 Reels. 



Part IIT— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2155 


Week Ending 16th f'ebruaiy 1975 

0) (2)“" (3) (T) (5) 


B/68693 

“The Cross in The 
Lotus" (Eng.) (Col,) 
(16mm.) 

254 -20) 
(3) 

B/71159 

“One For All, All For 
One” (Eng,) (16mm.) 

220 -00(2) 

B/70945 

“Stop-Look & Listen" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (35mm.) 

73-16(1) 

B/71171 

Help Us to Help 
You” (Eng.) (32mm.) 

495 -43(2) 


AMA Pv,. Ltd., Can- Caravs Jabalpur, 
a da Bldg., Dr. D. N. 

Road, Bombay-! , 

Films Division, Govt Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Pedd ir of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 

Mr. Sohrab Boga, Mr. Sohrab Boga, 
Nishaan Motion Pic-, Bombay-26, 
turcs, Vasant Vihars 
Carmichael Road,, 

Bombay-400026. 

The Dir. General of The Dir. General of 
Information Sc Pub- Information Pub- 
lic Relations. Govt. lie Relations, Govt, 

of Maharashtra. of Maharashtra- 


B/71253 

33/71267 


"New Ryhthms In 
Nagaland” (Eng.) 
(35 mm.) 


1319-00 

(5) 


Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Bombay 
of India, 24-Peddar 26. 

Road, Bombay-26. 


"Nagaland Revisited" 774 -00(3) Do. Do. 

(Eng.) (3,5 mm,) 


B/69865 

-B/7l#09 


B/71308 

B/7011Q 


“Rubens” (Eng,) 
(16mm.) 


700-00(2) Consulate General of Henri Storck of Paul 
Belgium 1 1 -Carmichael Haesacrts. 

Road, Bombay-26, 


"Uttar Pradesh Ke 
Barthe (Hindi) 
(35mm.) (kind am 


30-48(1) Rashtriya Jan Jagriti, Rashtriya Jan Jagriti, 
Punished, 2833/5- New Delhi-1 10655. 
Bhagat Singh, Slrcot 
Raj Guru Road, 

New Delhi-110655 


"Jaan Lee Sab Sachai 30 -48(1) Do. Do. 

(Hin) (35 m m) 


"God’s Love In Action 294 -13(1) S. S. Rao, C-20, 1st S, S. Rao, C-20, 1st 
(Engl.) (Col.) floor Royal Optical floor Optical Indu- 

(3Jmm.) fndustrial Estate, strial Estate, Naig- 

Naigaon Cross Rd., gaon Cross Rd„ 
Bombay-31 Bombay-31, 

Endorsement 


(6) 

"(7) 

U 

74336 

P.E. 

11-2-74 

U 

74337 

P.E. 

11-2-74 

U 

74338 P.E. 

11-2-74 


U 

74339 

P.E. 

1 1 -2-7 


U 

74340 

P.E. 

11-2-74 

U 

74341 

P.E. 

11-2-74 

U 

74342 

Not P. E. 

12-2-77 

U 

74343 

12-2-74 


U 

74344 
12-2-74 

U 

74345 ’ 

With triangle mark. 


13-2-74 


B/71293 


B/71294 

S/71 306 


B/71307 

B/71284 


Original Length : 297 -79 m, 

Delete the closcup of mutilated face of a patient which is being cleaned by a nun, keeping only a flash of If for the 
sake of continuity. — ,3 -66 m. 

Length of the deletions : 3 -66m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 294 -13 m, 


“Uttar Pradesh Sarna- 
char-21” (Hindi) 
(35mm.) (Lacknow) 


“Mahitiehitru No. 179 
(Gujarati) (35mm.) 


'Indian Nows Review 
No. 1322’ (32mm.) 


"I. N. R. No. 1322" 
(Western (Edition) 
(35mm.) 

“Naica Plcaca La 
Bucurosti" (Romanian 
(Col,) (35mm.) 


273 -10(1) 


233 -00(1) 


Dhirendra Pa nde, Cl o 
Bombay Film Labora. 
tory PVT. Ltd. 
Dadar, Bombay-28. 

Liaison Officer, Govt, 
of Gujarat. 


U 

The Dir. of Information 74346 

Govt, of UP. 

13-2 74 

U 

Dir. of Information 74347 

Govt, of Gujarat — 

13-2-74 


U 

171-00(1) Films Divison, Govt. Films Division, 74348 (Valid for Eng,, 

of India, 24-Peddar Bombay-26. — ■ — ■ — Hindi) Tam., Tel., 

Road, Bombay-26. 13-2-74 Kan., Mai., Ass., 

Oriya., Pun., Beng., 
Kash & Urdu., 
version, 


265-00(1) Do. Do. 


564 -00(2) National Education Romania Films, 
and Information 
Films Ltd,, National 
House, Tultoch Road 
Bombay-1 . 


U 

74349 Valid for Eng., 

Hin,, Mar., Guj. 

13-2-74 Sindhi version) 

U 

74350 P.E. 


41-2-74 


3— 369GI/75 



2156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


0) 

(2) 

0) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 


B/71286 

“Stircul Pas arc Rep- 
tila” (Romanian) 
(Col.) (35mm ) 

387 -00(1) 

National Education & 
Information & Films 
Ltd., National House, 
Tulloch Road 

Bombay-1. 

Romania Films, 

U 

74351 

P. F. 




14-2-74 


B/71280 

“How a Boiling Water 
Reactor Operates” 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm.) 
(USA.) 

“Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics, II Rela- 
ting Sets To Num- 
bers" (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm.) (USA.) 

121 92(1) 

Do. 

General Electric Edu- 

U 

74352 

P.E. 

B/71281 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

14-2-74 

U 

74353 

P. E. 





14-2-74 


B/71282 

“Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics, I Thin- 
king In sets” (Eng.) 
(Col) (13mm.) (USA) 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74354 

P.E. 











14-2-74 


B/71286 

“Com puters at Work" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm.) 
(USA.) 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

77355 

P. E. 





14-2-74 


B/71287 

“Magnetism at Work" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm. 
(USA.) 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

u 

74356 

P.E. 





14-2-74 


B/71283 

“Youe and the Com- 
puter" (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm.) (USA.) 

100-68(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74357 

P.E. 





14-2-74 


B/71U5 

“GUmpsos of India” 
(Northern Region) 
(Music Edicts Only) 
(Col.) (No Commen- 
tary) (35mm.) 

344-00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Prddar 

Films Division, 

Bombay-26. 

U 

74358 

Not P.E. 



Road, Bombay-26. 

14-2-74 


B/70997 

“Apka S ihsyak” (Hln. 
(Col.) (35mm.) 

30-48 (1) 

S. S. Obcroi, M/s Art 
Commercia, Manek 

Mr. S. S. Oberol. 

U 

74359 




Chambers, 299-A. 

Lamingtion Road, 
Bombay-4. 


14-2-74 


B/712J8 

“Pura Pan! Bharpur 
Munafa" (Marl) 
(Col.) (35mm.) 

30 -00(1) 

KALP, B-l, B-2 

Samrudhi Housing 
Society, Bhavant 

Shankar Road, 

Dadar-28. 

KALP. 

U 

74360 





14-2-74 


B/71217 

"The Tell Tale Bite" 
(Eng.) (Col) (35mm.) 

29 -87(7) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74361 






14-2-74 


B/71266 

“The Menace” (Eng.) 
(Col.) (35mm.) 

30-48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74362 






14-2-74 


B/71254 

“Subha Ka Bhuln" 
(Hln. (35mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Movie, Centre 12- 
Deepali Off Pery 
Road, Bandra, 

Bombay-50. 

M. W. Muadam 

U 

74363 





14-2-74 


B/71247 

"Ankheen Hazar 

Nlamat” (Hindi) 

(35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

R, P. Nagar, Pallani 
Films, 28/210 Gopal 
Pura, Agra-2. 

R. P. Nagar, Pallani 

U 

74264 




Pura, Agra -2. 

14-2-74 


B/71248 

“Sathi Klsan Ka” 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 

91 -5(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74365 



14-2-74 



Part III— Sec, 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2157 



B/71196 


B/66849 


B/71313 

B/71246 


B/71351 

B/713I2 

B/69567 

B/71202 

B/71133 

B/71318 

B/71317 


“Sandalwood Nycil” 
(Col.) (35 mm,) 


"Transformations” 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16 mm.) 
(FRO.) 


30 00(1) Kamla Sharma, Wide- Kamala 

screen 4-Shirin, Bombay-5. 

Colaba, Bombay-5. 


Sharma, 


U 

74366 (Valid for Hin„ 
■ ■ ■ Beng., Tam., Telu., 


14-2-74 Kan. & Mai. 
versions). 


316 -39(1) Consualtc General Cinoccutrin Hamburg, 
of Federal Republic 
of Germany, Bombay. 


U 

74367 P. E. with triangle 

mark. 

14-2-74 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 317 -00 m. 

Delete the shot in which a boy stands nude at the swimming pool before he dives into the water. — 0.61 m. 
Length of deletions : 0 -61 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 316 -39 m. 


“Work Study & Peo- 
ple” (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16 mm.) (U.K.) 

“Tr. of Ang Se Ang 
Lagale” (Hin.) (Col.) 
(35 mm.) 


U 

344-42(1) The Principal Rly. Vulean World Wide 74368 

Staff College, Pictures. — — P.E. 

Bombay-4. 15-2-74 

U 

85-21(1) Film Effocts, 117- Shiv Kumar Produe- 74369 

Famous Cine Studios, tions. — -With triangle mark. 

Mahalaxmi, Bombay- 16-2-74 

11 . 


Endorsement : 


Original length : 88 -39 m. 

1. Delete shots of suggestive kissings — 2 -17 m. 

2. Delete the flash of an emphasised bosom of a woman, — -0 -54 m. 

3. Delete the superimposed title "Sex and Love”. — 0-91 m. 
(Replaced with approved title — 0 -91 m.) 


4. Delete the shot of a boy throwing a girl on the bed. — 0 -47 m. 

Length of deletions : 4-09 m. 

Length of replacement : 0 -91 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 85 -21 m. 


"Narangi Inquilab” 
(Hindi) (Col.) (35 mm.) 


“The Turbuleut Peace" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm.) 
(FRG.) 


“Bharat Teerth” (Eng. 
(Col.) (35mm.) 


‘Applications of 
Tractel Tifor T-13 
and T-35” (Eng.) 
(16mm.) (France) 


"Scionce Report 146- 
B” (Eng.) (16mm.) 
(USA.) 


"Ewald Mataro” (Eng.) 
(16mm.) (FRG.) 


"People of The Saar" 
(Eng.) (16mm.) (FRG,) 


U 

29 -87(1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Jyoti 74370 

Studios, Kennedy Studios, Kennedy — — 

Bridge, Bombay-7. Bridge, Bombay-7, 16-2-74 

U 

414-00(1) Consulate General of GcScllschaft Fur 74371 

the Federal Republic Bildende Film. — — — - — — P.E. 

of Germany, Ramon 16-2-74 

House, Bombay-20. 


U 

310 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 74372 

of India, 24-Pcddar of India, 24-Peddar — — Not P.E. 

Road, Bombay- 26. Road, Bombay-26. 16-2-74 


250 -11(1) Tractel Tirfor India Tractel S. A. 
Pvt, Ltd.. B/56, 

Greater Kailash, Part 
11 New Dclhi.-48, 


U 

74373 

— P.E. 

16-2-74 


U 

143 -26(1) United States Infor- Robert Foster. 74374 

mation Service, 4 — P.E. 

New Marine Lines, 16-2-74 

Bombay-20. 

U 

376-00(1) Consulate General of Westdeutscher Rund- 74375 

the Federal Republic funk koln. -P.E, 

of Germany, Ramon 16-2-74 

House, Bombay-20, 

U 

256 -00(1) Do. Audax Films 74376 

(SAARLAND) — P.1-. 

16-2-74 



2158 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (A GR AH A YANA 22, 1 897) [Part 111— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


B/71 316 

“Working with Glass” 

238-00(1) 

Consulate General of 
the Fedral Republic 

Rhcwes Production 

U 

74377 


B/71311 

(Eng.) (16mm.) (FRG). 

"Well of Life” (Eng, ) 

299 92(1) 

of Germany, Ramon 
House, Bombay-20. 

United States fnforma- 

GMPH. 

Tom Beemer, 

16-2-74 

U 

74378 

P.E. 

(Col.) (16mm.) (USA) 

Endorsement under Rule 

34. 

lion Service, 4-New 
Marine Lines, 

Bombay-20, 


16-2-74 

P.E. 


B/71249-51 

Film : “Special Help For Baby" (Bin-) (Col.) 

U-Cert. No. 74187 of 11-1-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, English and Marathi versions of the film in colour. The length of the 
film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 1 Itfi February, 1974. 

B/71296 

Film : “Sukhi Jeevan Ka Sahi Prabhand" (Hindi) (Col.) 

U-Cert. No, 72840 of 2-7-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for English, Gujarati, Punjabi, Marathi, Bengali, Oriya and Assamese versions of the 
film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 12th February, 1974. 

B/70497 

Film : “Shaitan” (Hindi) (35mm.) (Col.) 

A-Cert. No. 3214 of 21-1-1974. 

Reel XIII : Deleted various shots : 123 '75m' 

XIV: Deleted various shots : 54 25 m. 

XIV : Added various shots ; 59 -74 m. 

Length of deletions : 178 -00 m. 

Length of additions ; 59 -74 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3564 -94 m. In 14 reels, 

This certificate was endorsed on 14th February, 1974. 

B/71 237-44 

Film : “Take Care of Him” (Eng.) 

U-Cert. No. 74260 of 26-1-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam ver- 
sions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 15th February, 1974, 

B/64850 

Film : "Changing Perspectives” 

U-Cert. No. 64905 of 30-12-1971. 

Deleted end title 1970:3 -00 m. Added end title 1973: 3 -00 ill. The length of the film remains unchanged i.c, 
264 -00 m. The film is in colour and not in Black Sc White. This certificate was endorsed on 16th February 
1974. 

B/69069 

Film : “Aabadi” (Hindi) (35mm.) 

U-Cert. No. 72734 of 15-6-1973. 

The length of tho film on the face or the certificate may be read as 75 -90 m. instead of 152 '40 m Deleted various 
shots : 58 -22 m. 

Added various shots : 24 -99 in. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 42 -67 m. 

Week ending 16 th February, 1974. 

CALCUTTA 

U 

C/7974 Bangladesh Biman 45-72(1) Sarawati Chitram Saraswati Chitrani 73374 

(Eng.) (Col.) (35mm.) 162/86, Lake Gar- 162/86, Lake Gar- — 

dons, Calcutta. dens, Calcutta. 11-2-74 

U 

C/7975 Baktatilak (Bengali) 4293 -90(16) Tn 0 Films 6, The Biswajit Chattorjee, 73375 With triangle work 

Mall, Dum Dum 6, Tho Mall, Dunr 

Cal-28. Dum, Cal-28. 


13-2-74 



PART III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2l59 


: 


' 

“ - 

. 


... - 

- 


1 

2 

3 


4 

5 

6 

7 



Endorsement : 


Original length : 4335 -17 metres 

1. Reel 1 : Delete the shot showing Zaminder offering money 

by the mouth to the dancing girl : 1 • 22 metres, 

2, Reel 6 ; (a) Reduce to the barest minimum the scene depictmg Aku Singh being dragged tied to the 

Zeep : 2 '44 mattes. 

( Length retained : 4 -88 metres) 

(b) Delete the torture in the Police Cell : 32 61 meties 
Total deletions : 36 -27 metres 

Final length after above deletions and reductions will be : 4298 ’90m. 

Particulars of Film Certified — Week Ending 16.2,74. 

MADRAS 


M/8361 ‘Matsushita Kan Expo 

70’ (Colour) (Japanese) 
Japan (16 mm.). 

M/8362 1972 Non Matsushita 

Giyyntsuten’ (Colour) 
Japanese (16 mm.) 
Japan. 

M/8363 ‘Dainikai Matsushita 
Gtjyutsuten’ (Colour) 
(Japanese) (16 mm.) 
Japan. 


329‘(1 8)1) lndo-National 
Madras. 


109 ‘72(1) 


219 45(1) 


M/8364 

‘Denchi No Giiyutsu’ 
(Japaneso) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) Japan. 

164-59(1) 

M/8365 

‘Time Capsule Expo 

70, (Colour) (Japanese) 
(16 mm.) Japan. 

274 '32(1) 

M/8369 & 
70 

‘Mahakavi Kuimran 
Asan’ (Malayalam & 
English) (35, mm.) 

(B. & W.) (India). 

457 -20(2) 

M/8407 

‘Zoroin On Safety’ 
(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (U. S. A.). 

109 -72(1) 

M/8418 

'The Elegant Idler’ 
(English) (16 mm.) 

(B. & W.) (India). 

194 76(1) 

M/8378 

‘Sapamoksham’ (Malay- 
alam) (35 mm.) (B. 

3872-67(15) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Ltd., Matsushita Electric 
Industrial Co. Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan. 

Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Trivandrum. 


Madras. 


drum. 


611, Chicago, UiS.A. 


mission, Mai 


Madras, 


igh C< 

or as . 


& W.) (India). 


Prodns., Anaswara 
Madras. 


Prodns., 


U 

67418 

11-2-74 

U 

6741.9 

11-2-74 

U 

67420 
11-2-74 

U 

67421 

11-2-74 

U 

67422 

11-2-74 

U 

67423 
11-2-74 

U 

67424 

11-2-74 

U 

67425 

11-2-74 

U 

67426 


With cuts. 


11-2-74 

Endorsement on Cert. No. 67426-U. dt. 11th Feb, 74 issued to Him ’Sapamoksham’ (Malayalam) 
35 mm. B.&W. 

Length applied : 3932 -39 m, 

Cuts— 

Metres 

1 . Reel 3.— Delete the scene of Surcndran and Baby in tho hotel-keeping only flashes') 

of Baby’s talking over the phone , . .... V 56 ‘38 

2. Reel 3 — Delete suggestive sound effects from the bathroom • J 

3. Reel 4 — Delete tho action of hotel attendant suggesting breasts 

4. Reel 4— Delete the shot of leg of a man on the front seat occupied by a wo 

in bus 


. woman 




3-34 


Total 59 -72 


Actual length will be : 3872 '67 Metres in 15 Reels. 

M/8334 Trailer of 'Do Ftaath 106 '68(1) Ravi International, Ravi International, 
Sao Banduken’ Madras, Madras, 

(Hindi) (35 mm.) 

(B, & W.) (India). 


U 

67427 


11-2-74 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


2160 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 7 

M/8416 

‘Do Haath Sao Ban- 

3869-44(17) 

Ravi Internatlnal Madras 

U 

67428 

M/8409 

duken’ (Hindi) (Scope) 
(Partly coloured) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

‘Kadavul Mama’ 

3887-72(15) 

Padntini Pictures, 

Padminl Pictures, 

11-2-74 

U 

67429 

(Tamil) (35 mm.) 
(B. & W.) (India). 


Bangalore. 

Bangalore. 

— With cuts. 

11-2-74 


Endorsement on Cert : No. 67429-U, dt. 11-2-74 issued to film ‘Kadavul Mama’ (Tamil) 35 mm. B.&W. 
Length applied : 3937 '70 m. 


Cuts — 

Metros 


1. Ree/l — Delete Manickam's action of pulling sari of Karpagam. His pushing her 

down on cot ........... 2 '13 

2. Reel 4 — Detoc all close-shots of fight in which themanin the guiseofa Red Indiun 

participates 2-74 

3. Reel 1— Reduce fight to the point when the photograph is re-snatched from Kandhan 8 -83 

A. Reel 1 — Delete all shots of the action of whipping 9-75 

5. Reel 7 — Reduce fight In <fie nursing home to a flash 12-49 

6. Reel 7— Delete the fight between Karunakaran and Kannamma . . 14 04 


Total . 49 -98 


M/8413 


Actual length will bo : 3887 -72m. In 15reels. 

U 

‘Gali Patalu’ (Tolugu) 4267-65(15) Anil Arts, Madras. Anil Arts, Madras. 67430 

(33 mm.) (B. & W.) — — With cuts. 

(India). 12-2-74 

Endorsement on Cert, No. 67430-U, dt. 12-2-74 issued to the film ‘Gali Patalu’ (Tolugu) 35 mm. B.&W. 
Length applied : 4308 -88 m. 


Cuts — - 


Metres 


1. Reel A — Delete shots of Susila undressing in bathroom as Kamayya is looking 

through keyhole 2-89 

2. Reel A— Delete the sequence of Papdu with towel on his back towards camera and 

Rangamma closing her eyes looking at him from opposite direction 6 -09 

3. Reel 6— Delete the prisoners punching Satyam on his stomach in jail as they are 

beating him ........... 2-13 

4. Reel fl — Delete shots of Ganganna removing glass piece from the solo of his shoe 

and a hoxa blade from the other shoo and also iater on delete his cutting the 
iron bar of the window standing on the back of Satyam, to escape from jail 
shown in detail. (The end portion of the shot where Ganganna is near the 
window may be retained for continuity of the story) . . . 10 -81 

5. Reel 6— Delete Ganganua’s dialogue to Satyam “Tappu Kadoo — Etho okati 

rendu rojullundall. As tarvata maryadaga velli povali” before escaping 
fromjail , 2-28 


6. Reel 7 — Delete the following from the picturisation of dance on the song beginning 

with the words “Hoy, Hey, Hey”: — 

(a) Tire dancer rubbing her posterior to Satyam’s posterior on tho words 

“Ila.lia” 

(b) The dancer giving indecorous beats to the posterior of Satyam by her 
posterior when both are standing back to back on BgM 

7. Reel 8 — Delete the sequence of the mob stoning the idol of Hanuman and disfiguring 

his face when Satyam is hiding behind the idol, (No objection to views 
of stones falling in other places) 7-30 

8. Reel 9 — Delete the close-shots of the dancer shaking her breasts vigorously In the 

dance on BGM. (No objection to longs shots) 3-04 

9. Reel 2— From the text of the song beginning with the words “Tandana Nandana" 

delete the following lines : (1) Okkaru pykokkostaru; (2) Vachinapanipoor- 
tiavagane; (3) Chachinattu padi vuntaru. (Sound only —replaced approved 
words) 

10. Reel 1 — Front the song text of song beginning with “Hey, Hey”, delete the follow- 

ing lines:— 

(1) Na jilugu pyta tanunua cheta ika niluva lenandira; (2) Jatagu kalisi 
jagarne marachi swargalu choodalira.” (Sound only — replaced 
approved words) 


1 

J 6-69 


Total . 41 -23 


Actual length of film will be : 4267 -65 rn. in 15 reels. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2161 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


M/8344 

M/8452 

M/8454 

M/8443 

M/8440 

M/8441 


‘Hare Krishna’ (Hindi) 
(Partly coloured) (35 
mm.) (India). 

‘Tamllnadu Govern- 
ment Regional News 
Bulletin 110’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm.) (B, & W.) 
(India). 


‘Vetri Kuvippom’ 

S amil) (33 mm.) 

. & W.) (India). 


3856-32(18) 


U 

Mukcsh Enterprises, Mukcsh Enterprises, 67431 
Madras. Madras. — 

12-2-74 


U 

305-00(1) The Directorate of The Directorate of 67432 

Information & Public Information & Public — — 

Relations, Mudras. Relations, Madras, 13-2-74 


80-76(1) Murasoli Maran, 
Madras. 


Murasoli 

Madras. 


U 

Maran, 67433 


13-2-74 


‘Samayalkaran’ (Tamil) 
(35 mm.) (B. & W.) 
(India). 


U 

3927-64(14) Marina Movies, Madras. Marina Movies, Madras 67434 


14-2-74 


‘Jeevikkan Maran- 
mipoya Stree’ (Mala- 
yalam) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (India), 

‘Sat! Anusuya’ (Hindi) 
(Colour) (33 mm.) 
(India). 


3644 -88(14) Chitrakalakendram, 
Madras. 


Shri K. S, R. Moorthy, 
Madras. 


U 

67435 


15-2-74 


3987-70(16) 


Vcnkatapathy Pictures, Shri S. V. Rajagopal, 
Madras. Madras. 


67436 

15-2-74 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of of Film Censors during the week Ending 23rd FHday, 1974. 


B/71325 

B/71269 

B/71330 

B/71323 

B/71264 

B/71350 

B/71349 

B/71259 


“Sandhana — Dawda 
A Quiz Programme" 
(Gujarati) (16 mm.) 

“Chhlttar Ya Bajra* 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 


“Geformle Zukunpt - 
50 Jahro Bauhaus" 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(FRO.) 

“Gustaf Grundgens” 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm.) 
(FRG.) 

“Vapour Action" (Eng.) 
(35 mm). 


“Orange Revolution" 
(Eng.) (Col.) (35 mm.) 


"Orange Explosion” 
(Eng.) (Col.) (35 mm.) 


“First in Class First 
In Sports" (English') 
(Col.) (33 mm.) 


BOMBAY 

430 -00(4) Space Applications 
Centre. 


546 -17(2) S. N. Bhagwat. 


158-00(1) Consulate General of 
the Federal Republic 
of Germany, Bom- 
bay-20, 

216-00(1) Do. 


30-48(1) M/s, Film-5, Jyoti 
Studio, Kennedy 
Bridge, Bombay-7, 

29-87(1) M/s. Trio Films, Jyoti 
Studio, Kennedy 
Bridge, Bombay-7, 

29 -87(1) Do. 


30-48(1) Film Media, 47-Laxmi 
Insurance Building, 
Sir P, M. Rd, Bom- 
bay-1, 


Space Applications 
Centre 


Anand Chitravnni. 


Redaktion Sgcncins- 
chaft. 


U 

74379 P. E. 

18-2-74 

U 

74380 P, E. 

18- 2-74 
U 

74381 P. E, 

19- 2-74 


U 

Universum— Film A.G 74382 P.E. 


19-2-74 

U 

M/s. Film-5, Jyoti 74383 

Studio, Kennedy — - — 

Bridge, Bombay-7. 19-2-74 

U 

M/s. Trio Films, Jyoti 34384 

Studio, Kennedy — 

Bridge, Bombay-7. 19-2-74 

U 

Do. 74385 


19-2-74 

U 

Mr, Jyoti G. Thakur, 74386 

Film Media. 

19-2-74 


B/71262 “Nourishing Bourn- 30-48(1) Do. 

vita" (Hindi) (Col.) 

(35 mm.) 

B/71151 “Little Angele" (Mar.) 30-48(1) Do. 

(Col.) (35 mm.) 


B/71260 "Shakti Se Bharpoor 30-48(1) Do. 

Bourn vita" (Marathi) 

(Col.) (35 mm.) 


U 

Do. 74387 


19-2-74 

U 

Do. 74388 


19-2-74 

U 

Do. 74389 


19-2-74 





2162 


THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec,- 4 


B/71261 

B/71149 

B/71147 

B/71324 

B/7I360 

B/71359 


B/71352-3 


B/71230 


B/7J354 


B/71310 


B/71334 


B/71332 


B/71333 


B/71343 


B/70703 


B/71322 


“Maharashtra News 
No. 259” (Hindi & 
Mar.) (35 mm.) 


“The Wonder World 
of Sea” (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


“Nai Roshani” (Hindi 
(35 mm). 


“Bremen Portrait of 
a city State” (Eng.) 
(16 mm.) (FRO.) 

“Horr Kckule lch Kcn- 
ne Sie Nicht” (Eng.) 
(16 mm.) (FRO.) 

"Portrait Of A Land- 
scope" (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16 mm«) 

“At The Turn Of The 
Age" (Col.) (Eng.) 
(16 mm.) 

“Pyaso Dil” (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35 nun.) 


"Tr. of Kora Anchal" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


"Gerhart Hauptmann” 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(FRO.) 


“Delicious Bournvita” 
(Gujarati) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 

“Pytue Munna” (Guj) 
(Col) (35 mm.) 


“Doctor’!, Advice" 
(Gujarati) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 

“Tr. of Thokar” (Hin.) 
(Col.) (35 mm.) 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1323” (Northern 
Edition) (35 mm.) 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1323” (35 mm.) 


3 

4 

5 

6 

30-48(1) 

Film Media, 47L»xmi/ 
Insurance Buildg., Sir 
P.M. Rd., Bonibay-1 

Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur, 
Film Media, 

U 

74390 


19-2-74 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74391 




19-2-74 

30-48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74392 


19-2-74 


98 -45(1) Movie Templo. 3rd S warn Singh, 
floor. Famous Cine 
Bldg., Bombay-11. 

208 -00(1) Films Division. Govt. Films Division, Bom- 
of India, 24-Peddar bay-26. 

Rd., Bombay-26. 


U 

74393 


20-2-74 


U 

74394 (Valid for English, 

• -- Hindi, Kashmiri, 

20-2-74 Punjabi & Urdu 
versions). 


294-00(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74395 


20-2-74 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Telugu, Kapnada, 
Malayalam, Assa- 
mese, Oriya & 
Bengali versions), 


300-00(1) Dir. Gen. of Informa- 
tion & Public Rela- 
tion, Govt, of Maha- 
rashtra. 

30 -48(1) Genoral Communi- 
cations, Ksharna 
Bhajwan, 37-New 

Marine Lines, 
Bombay-20. 


Dir. Gen. of Informa- 
tion & Public Rela- - 
tlon, 


U 

74396 

20-2-74 


General Communi- 
cations, Bombay-20. 


299 -89(1) S. G. Khirwadkar, H. P. Tiwari, Dir. Inf. 

Asstt. Dir., M. P. Gov- Pub., Madhya Pra- 
vcrnment. desh Govt., Bhopal. 


287-00(1) Consulate Gen, of the 
Federal Republic of 
Germany, Bombay-20, 


208 -00(1) 


Do. 


Radio Bremen, 


Gessel SchaftFur Bil- 
dende Film. 


159-00(1) Consulate Genera) of Herbert Apelt. 
F.R.G. 


U 

74397 

lo^74 


U 

74398 

20-2-74 

U 

74399 
20-2-74 

U 

74400 
20-2-74 

U 

74401 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi. Gujarati, 
Marathi, Tamil, 
Kannada, Telugu 
Bengali versions). 

P. E. 


P. E. 


115-00(1) 


Do. 


Waiter Leckvebusch 
Munchan, 


3277-51(13) Amritlal Khanna, 109, Amritlal Khanna, Now 
Guru Hotel, Khar, Ashok International 

Bombay-52. Bombay-52. 

91-44(1) S. Kamruddin, Pawan Mexico Films, Aircon- 
Amar Deep, Co-opo- ditioned Market, 

rative Housing Socic 
ty S ntacruz, Bont- 
bay-54. 

315 -00(1) Consulate General of Debena Films. 

F.R.G. 


21-2-74 

U 

74402 
21-2-74 

U 

74403 

21-2-74 

U 

74404 
21-2-74 


U 

74405 


P. E. 


P, E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


21-2-74 



2163 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER u, 1973 <AGRA1B»YANA 22, 1697) 



u 

B/71204 “DukhSukh” (Hindi) 3431 44(14) Naushecn films, C/o Mr. .Ip weed Qudri, 74410 With triangle mark. 

(Prt. Col.) (35 mm.) Johnson lllectricals, 

39/41. Bombay-3. 22-2-74 

Endorsement : — 

Original length. — 3431 '44 Metres. 

Delete the shot of Sukhlal kissing a girl during the Picturisntion of the song. — 4 -57 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 4 -57 m, i 
Only Reel No. 7 is in colour) 

Length of deletions : 4 -57 m.) 

Length of replacement : 4 -57 m.) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be.:- — 3431 '44 m. 


U 

B/71361 “Tax ? (Eng.) (35 mm, ) 450-00(2) Films Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 74411 P. E. 

of India, 24-Pcddar of India, 24-Peddar - 

Road, Bombs y-26. Road, Bombay-26. 22-2-74 


B/62457 “Mehman” (Hindi) (Colour) 3688 • 25 Shtrnjit p.ml, Shatu-jit Shotmi jit Paul, Shntrujit U-74412 With ti iangle mark. 

(35 mm.) (15) Films, 5-Amtnd Films, 5-Anand Kunj, — . 

ICunj Linking Read, linking Road, Santa- 23-2-74 

Sant.icruz, Bombay- cruz, Bombay-54. 

54. 

Endorsement: — 

Original Length, — 3845-17 M. 

No. Cut No. Reel 

1 . III. (i) From the picturisati r of the son" “Hnoy oof ye Jawani . . .” delete shots of the hero Rajesh 

hit; i o ; on the waL of Shcoln and fondling her, — 0 -91 m. (Replaced with approved shot.: — 0 -91 

(ii) Delete jerking movements of the b'-amn by Sheela on the words “H.i . oof yeh Jawani"— 0 -70 m 
(Ropikccd with app.ovcd shots.: — 0-70 m.) 

(iii) De'ete Rajesh f ndlmg Shcek at (he hips.; — 0-91 m. 

(Replaced with eppi -ved sh^ts. — 0 -91 m.) 

(iv) Delete RajeSh holding Shcoln very closely and lifting her. — 3 -90 m. 

(Replaced with appruved shots.: — -3 -90 m.) 

(v) Delete cheek to cheek pressing between Rajesh and Sheela. — 1 -30 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots.: — 1 -30 m.) 

2. IV, Delete the following shots : 

(a) Shots of the dancer when she is lying down and in which her thigh and hip are prominently 

exposed on the wording “Nar mat mar mat yaara "to “ICrl shayadkisne dekha bumnaa 

ho” — -5 -04 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots.:- — 5-04 m.) 

(b) Shot of dancer’s revs ling thigh while standing with the slave on the wording “Ye aish do gharika" 
—1 -52 m. (Replaced with . pproved shots. — 4 -52 m.) 

(c) Shots of tile diLicer’" exposed thigh while singing “Chela n khi-d pc ka.r le” till she resuncs turning 

turning action. — -4-20 m. (RepLoed with approved shots. — 4 -20 m.) 

3. V. Reduced the scene of R, josh and Shock pressing cheeks on each others whie making ovc on the 

chairs.— 5 -39 m. 

(Length retained.— 23 -87 m.) 

4. VII. (a) Delete the undu lined words from the dialogue said by masseur: “Din men waiter ka kaam kart a 

hoonraat ko maalish kaita hron” (Replaced with approved words) 

(b) Delete the following words spoken by Railway guard : 

(1) Chalati gaadl par mat chadhiya (Replaced with approved words) 

(ii) Ek hi patri par do gadiyun nahin ho sakti” (Replaced with approved words) 
s X Delete the suggestive kiss between R?ji--h and Shook In his room in the hotel, — 1 -92 m. 


4—369GI/75 



2164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 



fl/71336 

B/71335 

B/71337 

B/71320 

B/71321 

B/70633 


Cut No. Ree No. 


6. XI. Reduce the rape scene by dele tint; the portion where Sinha’s chin touches the bosom of the dumb 

girl and delete the rape sccno of the dumb girl by Sinhn in the close proximity of idols of Lord 
Krishna, Jesus Christ and holy Quran n and also delete the last close-ups of their faces establish- 
ing copulation, (There would be no objection to retain the shots for the sake of continuity 
avoiding the idols and Quraan).— 25 -60 m, 

(Length retained.— 38 ’09 m.) 

7. XIV & XV. Reduce the fight between Rajesh and Sinha in the horses’ enclosure and Rajesh and Anwar in the 
cellar ana reduce prominent views of Sinha’s blood smeared face. 

Reduce the fight scquenco taking out some of the most gruesome shots and reduce the whipping 
of Sinha by Rajesh in the horses enclosure. —9 -42 m. 

(Length retained. 6 : 5 '80 m.) 

(Deleted voluntarily. : 114 ’59 m.) 

Length of deletions. : 60 '81 m. 

Length of voluntary deletions. : 114 '59 nr. 

Length of approved replacement. : 1 8 '48 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be. : 3688 '25 m. in 15 reels. 


“Sonntag Morgen In 
St. Pauli” (No Com- 
mentary) (16 mm.) 
(FRO.) 


"The Poisoned Atmo- 
sphere” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm) 
(FRO.) 


"Munchen-Messe-Und- 
Ausstellungestadt.” 
(English) (Colour) 

(16 ram.) (FRO.) 


“The Discovery of 
Radio Activity" 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (FRO.) 


“Durerstadt Und Sta- 
htbet on” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 


“Khote Sikkay” 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 


U 

140 00(1) Consulate Gen. of Atlas Films (Hamburg). 74413 Not P.E. 

F.R.G, 

23-7-74 

U 

140'00(1) Do. Deutsche Condo i Fi m 74414 

Gmbh. P.E. 

23-2-74 

U 

179 00(1) Do. Inscl Film Georg 74415 

Zauner. — — — P.E. 

23-2-74 

U 

172 00(1) Do, Rudolf Stoltlng. 74416 

— P.E, 

23-2-74 

U 

166 00(1) Do. Redaktionsgenein 74417 

Schft. Not P.E. 

23-2-74 

A 

3787 '13(15) Mewar Films, 7/1 Air M. D, Kothari, 7/1 3216 With Iriangie mark. 

Conditioned Market, Air Conditioned — — 

Tardeo, Bombay-34. Market, Tardeo, Bom- 20-2-74 
bay-34. 


Endorsement: 

Original length : 3839 Tim. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1 , i Reduce the view of killing of the moneylender by Janga, (with a view to minimising tho clement of 

cruelty — 1 -22 m. (Length retained: 1 '22 m.) 

2. II (a) Reduce the passionate gestures of Komal and Baggu during then love-making scene, on the cot.— 

4*57 m. (Length retained: 9 -91m.) 

(b) Delete the suggestive dialogue "To gaon men dakutumhara, ’ ’ as spoken by the truck driver. — 3 35 m. 

3, in During tho fight, reduce hittings on the belly, striking with elastic ball and close views of fighting with 

fork. — 4 *73 m. (Length retained: 0*91m.) 

4. iv After the ’mujra’ dance, reduce the hittings of a man with gun butt. — 1 -22 m. (Deleted completely). 

5. v (a) In Janga’s den reduce the view of dagger being thrown by Janga, deleting tho close view of dagger 

on the back of the villager, — 1 *83 m. (Length retained : 0 *40 m.) 

(b) Reduce the cruel impact when Janga kills the judge.— 2 *44 m, (Length retained : 0 26 m.) 

6, V Delete the following suggestive dialoguo spoken by a female dancer : 

"Agar hathiar istemal nahin kiye jayen to voh bekar ho jaatc ham," — 3 05 m. 

7. VIII From the sequence in which Janga rescues Dilwar from the Police-van, delete the close range shooting 

of the policemen by Janga’s men.— 1 *52 m. 

8, xi Reduce tho view of the girl with bare back lying with Baggu on the cot, by deleting, the beginning 

portion of the shot where Baggu’s legs are on tho girl’s legs.— 1 *83 m. (Length retained : 14 *02 m.) 

9 XIII (a) Reduce to only three whips, tho whipping of Rani by Janga on the cot. — 3 *66 m. (Length retained * 
2 *44ra.) 

(b) Reduce the impact of cruel striking with knife by Janga on the body of Ramu and looking at the 
blood smearod knife — 5 '49m. (Length retained: 1 '37 m.) 




PAJIT III— SEC. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2165 









1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


Cut Reel XIV 

No. No. & XV. 

10. During the lights, reduce the general impact of cruelty and violence, by deleting gruesome shot* 

showingwounda with blood and close views of weapons used in the fight — 17 -07 m.(Length retained 
in Reel XIV:109-12 m.) 

(Length rotained in Reel XV: 84 12 m.) 

Length of deletions ; 51 -98 m. 

Actual length oj the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. 3787 13m. tn 15 reels. 

B/71 327-30 

Film “Sweat Dreams Como True’’ (English) (Colour) (35 mm.) 

(J-Cert. No. 73054 of 18-8-1973. 

This c ;rci(le ito is also valid for Tamil, K lantda, M il tyalain add Tclugu versions of the film in colour. The length 
of the film remains umaagjd. Tnn certificate was endorsod on 18th February, 1974. 

B/69990 

Film'. “Story of Chocolate’ (Col.) (English) 

U-Cort. No. 73211 of 25-8-1973. 

Deleted various shots: 21 -36 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 274 -50 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th February, 1974, 

B/ 70647 

Film: “Madfiosh” (Hindi)(Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74291 of 30-1-1974. 

Reel VIII : Deleted various shots: 33-22 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3627 -66 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th February, 1974. 

B/71357-58 

Film: * ‘Subha Ka Bhula” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74363 of 14-2-1974. 

Tnis certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Tamil versions ot the film. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 20th Febiuary, 1974. 

B/71078 

Film : “Ek Gaou Ki Kaham’’ (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74171 of 7-1-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. Tne length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 22nd February, 1974. 

B/69900 

Film: "Gupt Cyan" (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cort. No. 3205 of 19-12-1973. 

Reel No. I ; Deleted various shots ; 54 -87 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions wilt be : 3699-12 m. 

This Certificate was endorsed onf22nd February, 1914. 

B/70686 

Film: "These are the Days" (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74225 of 16-1-1974. 

Corrections : 

The name of the producer may bo road as “Pro. S, K. Luthra" instead of “Kareer Films & T.V, Institute". 

This certificate was endorsed on 22nd February, 1974. 

B/71355-6 

Film: “Twice As Good" (English)(Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74312 of 4-2-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 23rd February, 1974. 

B/71402 

Film:" The Menace” (English)(CoburJ 
U-Ccrt, No. 74362 of 14-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 23rd February, 1974. 

R/71397-401 

Film: "World Renowned” (English)(Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 72692 of 6-6-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Tclugu, Bengali and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 23rd February, 1974, 

Particulars of Films granted or Refused certificates by the Centra! Board of Film 
Censors during the week ending 23rd February, 1914 

CALCUTTA U 

C/7970 A La Conquete Des 175-00(1) Centre Culturel Fran- N. Skrotsky. 73376 P.E. 

Fouds Marins cais, Calcutta, 

(English) (16mm.) 21-2-74 

France 




2166 THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

C/7971 

Roafite Concorde 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) France 

175 00(1) 

Ccnlcul Cultural 
Flaneur, Calcutta 

Pierre Tallaud, 

C/7972 

Accidents Slit Com- 
mando (English) 

(16 mm.) France. 

150 -00(1) 

-Do- 

N. Shrotsky. 

C/7973 

Concorde Transat- 

lantlque (English) 

(Col.) (16 mm.) France 

150-00(1) 

-Do- 

-Do- 

C/7976 

Jadi Jantom (Bengali) 

(35 mm.) India. 

4470-81(15) 

Cmtrajug 47, Lelin 
Saraui, Calcutta-13. 

Chitrajug. 



Particulars of films certified during week ending 

Saturday 23-2-74 

MADRAS 

M/8442 

"Trailer of Bahadur 
Ladklyan" (Hindi) 

(35 mm.) (B&W) India 

91 -44(1) 

Kapadu Enterprises, 
Madras. 

Kapadia Enterprises, 
Madras. 

M/8448 & 
8149 

“46 hours Grand 
Sale" (Eigli;h & 
Kannada) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) India. 

30-48(1) 

Nagaraj, S & S P.o- 
ducuols, B mgJloro. 

Nagaraj, S & S Pro- 
ductions, Bangalore. 

M/ST0 

‘Tun Razak Tunggak 
Kcrajaan’ Baa iru’ 
(English) (16 mm.) (B & 
W) Malaysia. 

118-87(1) 

Malayan m High 

Commission, M idi is. 

Filom Negara Mala- 
ysia, Malaysia. 

M/8453 

“Nanoo Balabeku' 

(Kannada) (35 mm.) 
(B&W) India 

3953 -71(15) 

Gopi Produ';tions, 

Bangalore. 

Gopi Productions, 

Bangalore. 


6 


U 

73377 P.E. 

21-2-74 

U 

73376 P.E. 

21-2-74 

U 

73379 P.E. 

21-2-74 

U 

73380 

23-2-74 


U 

67437 
18-2-74 

U 

67438 
18-2-74 

U 

67439 

18- 2-74 

U 

67440 With 

19- 2-74 


7 


cuts. 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67440-U, dt. 19-2-74 ,,oucd to film ‘Nanoo Balabeku’ (Kannada) 35 mm. B&W. 
Length applied : 3986 00 Mts. 


Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel A— Delete branding the child ..... . - 1 '5Z 

2. Reel 8—Reduce fight, deleting action of smashing hoad of Ramnoth against the rock 2 -43 

3. Reel 12 — Delete the shot of cabaret dancer lying on table (Replaced orchestra: 1 -06) 1-06 

4. Reel 13— Delete shots of B.ilu and the girl on bed including her dialogue (retain- 

ing only last shot when Lilly goes out of the room threatening Balu). 28 '34 


Total 33 -35 


M/8228 


M/8451 


Total replacement : 1 -06 Mts. 

Actual length is 3953 -71 Mt9. in 15 Reels. 

U 

‘Sisupalan’ (Tamil) 3998-97(15) tire; Vij iyn Cine Arts, Sree Vijaya Cine Arts, 67441 

(35 mm.) (B&W) India Madras Madras. — 

19-2-74 

U 

“Tiger Tliathachari' 3980-68(14) Scnthvr Films, Madras. Senthur !-ilnis, Madras. 67442 With cals. 

Tamil) (35 mm.) (B&W) — 

India. 20-2-74 

Endorsement on Ceri. No. 67442-U, dt. 20-2-74 issued to the film ‘Tigor Thathachari’ (Tamil) (35 mm,) (B&W) 
Length applied. 3980 68 Metres. 

Cuts — Metre 

Reel 10 — Song 4 — Delete the words ‘Vaarum, Kaanadn . “Virundhuttava”. 

(Sound only — replaced approved words.) 


Total nil 


Actual length oj the film remains the same namely 3980 -68 Metres in 14 leels. 







2168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 



B/71414 

B/71415 

B/71396 

B/71288 

B/71366 

B/71365 

B/71292 

B/71228 


‘‘I.N.R. No. 1324” 
(35mm.) 


‘■I. N. R, No. 1324" 
(Eastern Edition) 
(35 mm.) 


“Mahitichitra No. 180" 
(Gujtati) (35 mm.) 


224 'OO(l) 


299 -00(1) 


143 -26(1) 


U 

Films Division, Govt, Films Division, Govt, 74420 (Valid for English, 

of India, 24, Peddar of India, 24, Peddar — Hindi, Marathi, 

Road, Bombay-26, Road, Bombay-26. 27-2-74 Gujarati, Tamil, 

Tefugu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Pun- 
jabi, Kashmiri, 
Urdu & Sindhi 
version). 


U 

Do. Do. 74421 (Valid for English, 

— - Hindi, Bengali, 

27-2-74 Assami & OrJya 
version) . 


U 

Director of Information, Director of information, 74422 

Govt, of Gujarat. Govt, of Gujarat. 

27-2-74 


“Communicating 
Safety Part I: Turn- 
ing the Light on 
Danger”. (U.K.) 

‘‘Communicating 
Safoty Part II: Make 
The Best use of Your- 
self” (English) (Col,) 
(16 mm.) (U.K.) 


“Communicating 
Safety Part III: Sell 
Safety (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) (U.K.) 

“Introduction to Rat- 
ing" (English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.) 


“insomnia” (English) 
(16 mm.) (USA) 


U 


222-50(1) National Educational National Coal Board 74423 P.E, 



& Information Films 
Ltd, 

Film Unit. 

27-2-74 


163 -07(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74424 

P.E. 




27-2-74 


210-31(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74425 

P.E. 




27-2-74 


177 -39(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

74426 

P.E. 

221 -59(1) 

Do. 

U.S, Navy. 

27-2-74 

U 

74427 

P.E. 




27-2-74 



B/71361 

Film : “I.N.R. No. 1323” (Northorn Edition) 

U-Cort. No. 74394 of 20-2-1974. 

Corrections: 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 294 00 m. instead of 208 00 m, 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th Fobruary, 1974. 

B/71360 

Film: “I.N.R. No. 1323” 

U-Cert. No. 74395 of 20-2-1974. 


Corrections: 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may bo read as 208 -00 m. instead ol 294 -00 m. 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th February, 1974. 

B/71183 

Ftlm: “Haryana Samachar Darshan No. 9 " 

U-Cert. No. 74288 of 30-1-1974. 

Corrections: 

The length of the film on tho face of the certificate may be read as 283 -16 m. instead of 238 -16 m. 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th February, 1974. 

B/70122 

Film : “Pinjra” (Hindi) (35 mm.) 

U-Cert. No. 73644 of 16-10-1973. 

Reel No. 1. Deleted various shots 4J 15 m. 

2. Deleted various shots 17 -68 m. 

3. Deleted various shots 26 -52 m. 

4. Deleted various shots 16 -76 m. 

5. Deleted various shots 26-21ni. 

6. Deleted various shots 38 -39 m. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2169 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


7. 

De eted various shots 

9 -45 m. 

8. 

De eted vai ious shots 

3 '66 in. 

9, 

Deletea various shots 

96 '01 m 

12. 

Deleted various shots 

6 '09 in. 

13. 

Deleted various shots 

10 '36 m. 

14. 

Deleted various shots 

47 -24 m , 

16. 

Deleted various shots 

38 '41 m. 


Length of deletions: 317.93 

Actual length oj the film after the ajoresatd deletions mil be : 4265 '80 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th February, l f >74. 

B/71 371-82 

Film: “Help Us to Help You” (Eng.) 

U-Ccrt. No. 74339 of 1 1-2-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati, Kannada, Tamil, Teiugu, Bengali, Malayalam, Assamese, 
Oriya, Punjabi, and Urdu versions of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th February, 1974. 


B/70801 

Film: “Aarop” (Hindi) (Col.) 

U-Cert. No. 74226 of 16-1-1974. 

Reel No. Ill : Added various shots : 52 '43 m. 

XIII : Added various shots : 24 '38 m. 

Length of additions: 76 '81m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 3838 -95 m. 

This certificate is valid with or without above alterations. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th February, 1974. 

B/62682 

Film: “Samruddhi Nu Sopnn” 

(Steps To Prosperity) (Guj.) 

U-Cert. No. 63170 of 18-5-1871 

Reel No. I : Deleted various shots : 67 '06 m. 

The final length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 465.73 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 27th February, 1974. 

B/66359 

Film: “Bharat” (Hindi) (Col.) 

U-Cert. No. 70153 of 17-6-1972. 

Deleted various shots: 71 63 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 202 -69 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th February, 1974, 

B/70018 

Film: “Garm Hava” (Urdu) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 73635 of 15-10-1973 

Reel No. I : Deleted acknowledgement titles: 10 '67m. Reel No. XV: Deleted the words: “Kftji sahab ke mllane ke baad 
to main bhi isi natije pe pahuncha hun”.— 1 -52m, Reel No. I : Superimposed prologue reading as: “Takseem 
hua mulk to dil ho gaye tukde har socno mein toofan vahan bhi tha yahan bhi Geeta ki koi sunna na quraan 
ki sunna hairan sa ceman vahan bhi tha yehan bhi har ghar main chita jalti thl lahraate the shole har shahar 
mein shamshan vahan bhi tha yahan bhi.” Reel No. XV : Superimposed epilogue reading as ‘,Jo door se 
toofan ka karto hain nazaara unke liyc toofan vahan bhi hai hahan bhi dhare mein jo mil jao’ge ban jaoge 
yah waqkt ka ilaan vahan bhi hai yahan bhi.” Reel No. XV : Added the following dialogue : 

“Hamcin Hlndustban chhodkar bhagna'nahi chahiye balkc dusanro sc kandhc se kanaha mils kar apni 
mango ke liye ladana chhahiye”-. 13 m. 

Length of deletions : 12-19 m. 

Length of additions : 2T3 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be: 3993 '37 m. In 15 reels. 

This certificate was endorsed on 1st March, 1974, 

B/71443-4 

Film: “Soft Touch” (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74053 of 11-12-1973 

This certificate is also valid for Kanntda and Gujarati versions of the film in colour. The length of the film 
remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 1st March, 1974, 

B/71440-1 

Film: “Tale For Tots" (Hindi Bengali, Tamil & Teiugu) 

U-Cert. No. 74079 of 15-12-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Marathi and English versions of the film, The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 1st March, 1974. 

CALCUTTA U 

73381 

C-7978 Paschim Bcnga 391-67(1) Narayan Ghosh 95, Dept, of Information 

Sarkarer Sangbad Baburam Ghosh Road, & Public Relations, — — 

Chitra No, 54 (Bengali) Cal-40. Writers Buildings. 28-2-74 

(35 mm)-Indla. Govt, of West Bengal 

Calcutta-1. 



2170 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


(5) 


(Q 


0 ) 


C-7979 

C-7977 


M-8461. 


Jatra Utshab, 1973 
(Bengali) (35 mm) India 


Dept, of Inform itlon U 

396 '24(1) Byoy Gupta 1-D, Gouri & Public, ReIatjon-5, 73382 

bari Lane, Cal-4. Govt, of Wed Bengal . 

Calcutta-1. Writers Build iDg, 28-2-74 


Paribabaner Natim 403 '25(2) 

Diganta (Bengali) 

(35 mm.) India. 


B. J. Enterprise 10/1, Do. 

K. M. Naskar Road, 

Calcutta. 


U 

73383 


28-2-74 


MADRAS 


U 


‘Suprabatham’ (Mala- 3657 -00 (14 ALS Productions, 
valam) (35 mm.) (B&W) Madras. 

India 


Shri A. L. Srinivasan, 67447 

Madras. — — With Cuts. 

25-2-74 


Endorsedment on cert. No. 67447-U dt. 25th Feb. ’74 — issued to film ‘Suprabatham’ (Malayalam) 35nmi. B&W. 


Length applied. 3663 -69 Metres. 

Mts. 

Cuts. 6 -69 

1. Reel 3 — Reduce tho shot in which the boy tries to pick the ball with his chinfrom that of the girl’s 
eliminating the action of rolling tho ball over the bust. 


2. Reel 9 — Delete the front close-shot of cabaret dancer’s action on the round divan exposing 

her breasts. (Replaced shot of Anurudhan and his friend 3 -95). 3 -95 


Total 10-64 


Total replacement 3 -95 Mts. Actual length will be 3657 00 Mis ■ In 14 Reeh. 

U 

M-8459. “Manikka ThottiT 4237-33(15). Karpagam Productions, Karpagam Produc- 67448 

(Tamil) (35mm.) (B&W) Madras. tions, Madras — — - — With cuts. 

India. 25-2-74 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67448-U dt. 25th Feb. ’74 — issued to the film ‘Manikka Thottil’ (Tamil) 35mm. B&W. 
Length applied. 4240 -67 Metros. 

Cuts. Mts. 

1. Reel 2— Delete the dialogue of Manikkam “Unnai Midhikka Oruthar Podadhu, Naalu Per Venam”, I -52 

2. Reel 9 — Delete the action of two men coming close to the bust of the cabaret dancer in song No. 3 1 -82 

Total 3-34 


Actual length will be 4237 '33 Metres. In 15 Reels. 


M-8466 'Tamilnadu Govt. Re- 
gional News Bulleiin 
111’ (Tamil) (35 mm.) 
(B & W.) India. 


M-8465 Trailer of 'Cundclu 

Thecsina Monagadu’ 
(Telugu) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) India. 

M-8467 “Trailer of 'Lava Kush’ 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) India. 


B/71410-19 "Doctors From Kali- 
1 movky” (Col.) 

(16 mm.) (USSR). 


B/71407 "The Year of Mujpur” 
(Eng.) (35 mm.) 


B/71404 "Tr. of Sujata" (Hindi) 
(35 mm.) 


U 

305 -00(1) The Directorate of In- The Directorate In- 67449 

formation & Public formation & Public 

Relations, Madras. Relations, Madras, 26-2-74 


91 -44(1) Sanjeevini 
Madras. 


Films, Sanjeevini Films, 
Madras. 


U 

67450 


28-2-74 


83 -50(1) Mcharprakash 
Madras. 


Movies, Mcharprakash Movies, 
Madras. 


U 

67451 


28-2-74 


WEEK ENDING 9TH MARCH 1974. 

BOMBAY 

203 -00(2) U.S. S. R, Consulate Ukraina Newsreel and 
General 42-Nepean$ca Documentary Films 
Rd,, Bombay-6. ' 1 Studio. 


383 -74(2) G. L, Bhardwaj, Bhar- G. L. Bhardwaj, Bom- 
dwaj Films, 341-Tar- bay-34, 

dco, Bombay-34. 


U 

74428 P. E. Valid for Tamil 

— Telugu, Malayalam, 

4-3-74 Bengali, Punjabi, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
& Hindi versions). 

U 

74429 

— — P. E. 

4-3-74 


U 

96 -01(1) Ellora Films, 4E. Naaz Bimal Roy Productions, 74430 

Bldg., Lamington Mohan Studio, An- — — 

Road, Bombay-4. dheri, Bombay. 4-3-74 



2171 


PART m— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


B/71425 


B/71424 


B-71423 


B/71422 


B/71421 


B/71405 


B/71403 


B/71419 


B/71434 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

“Cace More, Than Skin 
Deep’'(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm). 

29 -26(1) 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, Bombay, 

Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, Bombay. 

U 

74431 


U 

74432 

“Flower Shower” 

(Hindi.) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 

29.26(1) 

Do. 

Do. 




4-3-73 

"Jadumantar” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74433 




4-3-74 

“The Common Factor" 
(Eng.) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74434 




4-3-74 

“A New Kind of For- 
tune Teller” (Eng.) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74435 




4-3-74 

“Rescue Operation” 
(English) (Colour) 

(35 min.) (USA). 

30 -00(1) 

United Film Makers 
311-12, Himalay 

House, Palton Rd., 
Bombay-1. 

Shelton Inc. 

U 

74436 



4-3-74 

“To Serve Is To Love” 
(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 

463 -60(2) 

Mr. Zafar Hal Cinerad 
Communications, 
Kshama Bhavan 37, 
New Marino Linos, 
Bombay-400020, 

Mr. Zafar Hai, Bom- 

U 

74437 



4-3-74 

“Golden Harvest" 

(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 

289 -56(1) 

K. S. Raju, M/s. Sri 
Proprietor, Green 

Street, Top floor, 
Boinbay-1. 

K. S. Raju, Bombay-1. 

U 

74438 



4-3-74 

“Breath-Taking Ex- 
perience" (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 

29 -87(1) 

Television Radio and 
Motion Pictures, 6-A, 
Rashmi Carmichael 
Road, Bombay- 

Television Radio and 

U 

74439 


Bombay-400026. 

4-3-74 


B/71420 

B/71408 

B/71270 

B/71399 

B/71406 

B/71342 


“Unche Ghar Ki Shobha" 30-48(1) 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 


U 

Movie Centre, 12- M. W. Mukadam 12 , 74440 

Dcepoli 7th Perry Deepoli 7th Perry — — - ■ 
Road, Bombay-50. Road, Bombay-50. 4-3-74 


"A Question of Idon- 283 -77(1) 
tity" (Eng.) (35 mm.) 


Y. R. Kliandekar, 5, Y.R. Khandekar. 
Sukhman L. J. Rd., 

Dadar, Bombay-28. 


U 

74441 


4-3-74 


U 

“The Good Earth” 458-52(2) S. N. Bhagwat. plotil7 Anand Chitravani Plot 7442 

(English) (35 mm.) Desai Colony Mam- 17 Desai Colony Malad. 

ledarwadi Lane 6, 4-3-74 

Malad. 


“Pure And Gentle” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


U 

29 -87(1) M/s. Film 5, Jyoti M/s. Film 5, Jyoti 74443 

Studios Kennedy Studios Kennedy — — — 

B'idgc, Bombay- Bridge, Bombay-7. 4-3-74 

400007. 


“Mittee Aur Urwark 411-48(1) 

Chitramala Kran 
Sankhya 1 -Mittee 
Kee Parekh" (Hindi) 

(35 mm.) 

‘Turbulence" (Eng.) 310 -90(1) 

(Col.) (16 mm.) (USA) 


U 

P. C. Joshi, 25 Hospi- P. C. Joshi, New Delhi- 74444 

tal Rd., Jangpura, Now 110014 — — 

Delhi-110014 4-3-74 


U 

Office of the Deputy M/s. Emeylopaodift Bri- 74445 

Direator General of tannica Educational 

Observatories, Fore- Corporation. 4-3-74 

cast, Poona-5. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


5— 369GT/75 



2172 THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13,1 975 (AC.RAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


B/71342 “Waves and Fluids” 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(USA). 


B/71367 “Bank Manager In 

Action No. 3, Time 
To Think” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(U. K.) 

B/71384 “The Leather Ball" 

(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USSR) 

B/71385 "This is How The Cir- 

cus Bogins" (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(USSR.) 

R/71340 “Rotating Flows” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USA) 


B/71363 “Hand In Hand” 
(English) (35 mm.) 


B/71 386-91 “Inventions of Pro- 
fckhev Alexandrov" 
(16 mm.) (USSR). 


R/71483 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1325” (35 mm.) 


B/71484 


B/71362 


B/71 220 


B/71 331 


B/71448 


‘Indian News Review 
No. 1325” (Southern 
Edition) (35 mm.) 


“Rythm of Agricul- 
ture” (No Commen- 
tary, Music Only) 
(35 mm.) 


"The Luxury of 
Crookes Lacto 

Calamine” (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


“Hutnboldt-Report & 
Roforonco” (English) 
(Colour) 16 (mm.) 
(FRO,) 

“Vision USA 19" 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USA.) 


U 

365 '76(1) Office of the Deputy M/S Emeylopaedla 74446 

Director General of Britannica Educa- 

Observatory Porecast- tional Corporation, 4-3-74 
ing, Poona-4. 


243 -23(3) AMA Educational Pvt. Rank Film Library. 
Ltd., Canada Bridgo, 

Bombay-1. 


U 

74447 


7 

P.E. 

P.E. 


4-3-74 


U 

74448 


220-00(2) U.S.S.R, Consulate Kov Popular Science 

Genoral, 42-Nepean Film Studio. — — 

Sea Road, Bombay-6. 4-3-74 


220 00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Central Documentary 
Film Studios. 


U 

74449 


4-3-74 


320 04 (1 ) Office of the Deputy M/s. Emeylopaedia Bri- 
Director General of tannica Educational - 

Observatories Fore- Corporation, 

casting Poona-5 

223 -00(1 ) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Poddar of India, 24-Poddar - 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 

109-00(1) U.S, S.R. Consulate Cential Documentary 
General 42-Nepean Film Studio. 

Sea Road, Bombay-6. 


230 00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Poddar of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26, Road, Bombay-26. 


U 

74450 

4-3-74 


U 

74451 
4-3-74 
U 

74452 
4-3-74 


P.E. 


P.E. 


U 

74453 


6-3-74 


((Marathi, Gujarati, 
Punjabi, Tamil — 
Telugu, Malaya- 
lam versions,). 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 

Gujarati, Assamese 
Oriya, Punjabi, 

Bengali, Kashmiri, 
and Urdu ver- 
sions.) 


304 00(1) 


288-00(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74454 


(Valid for English 

— — Hindi, Tamil 

6-3-74 Tolugu, Kannada 
Malayalam versious 

U 

74455 


6-3-74 


U 

30-00(1) KtimUSharma, Wide- Kamla Sharma, Wide- 74456 (Valid for English, 

screen, 4, Shirin, screen, 4 Shirin, — Hindi, Bengali’ 

Colaba, Bombay-5. Colaba, Bombay-5, 6-3-74 Kannada, Mala- 

yalam, Telugu & 
Tamil versions). 

U 

344 -00(1) Consulate General of Dido Films. 74457 

Federal Republic of 
Germany, Roman 
House, Bombay-20. 

287-43(1) United States Infor- Thomas Craven, 
mation Sorvice, 4-New 
Marine Line, Bom- 
bay-20. 


7-3-74 


U 

74458 

7-3-74 


P.E. 


B/71131 “Scioncc Report 
146-A” (English) 
(16 mm.) (USA.) 


146-30(1) 


Do. 


Robert Foster. 


U 

74459 

7-3-74 


P.E. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGR AHA YANA 22, 1897) 2173 


l 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


B/713I4 “Science Report 
147- A” (English) 

(16 mm.) (USA.) 


B/71315 “Science Report 

147-B” (English) 

(16 mm.) (USA.) 

B/71394 "Pnshpa Ki Abhi- 

lasha” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (16 mm,) 

B/71263 “Shivaji” (Hindi) 

(35 mm.) 


B/71497 “Trailer of Badla” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


U 

147 ’52(1) Unitea States lnfor- Robert Foster. 74460 P.K. 

mation Scrvice’4-New — — — — — 

Marine Line, Bom- 7-3-74 

bay-20. 

U 

146 ’30(1) Do. Do. 74461 P.E. 


7-3-74 

U 

109 -42 (1) Chopra Films, 28- Chopra Films, 28- 74462 Not P.E. 

Gandhi G alii, Delhi-6 Gandhi Gali, Delhi-6 — 

7-3-74 

U 

669 -01(3) National Education & National Education & 74463 Not P.E. 

Information, Films, Information Films, — — — 

Ltd., National Ltd,, Bombay. 7-4-74 

House, Tullach 

Road, Bombay, 

U 

83-00(1) Century Films. R. C. Kumar, Cen- 74464 With triangle mark. 

tury Film. — - - — ■ — 

7-3-74 


B/71257 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 90 -00 

1. Reduce the scene of molestation of Asha deleting rolling of the two on the ground. — 2 00 m. 

Length retained : 3 00 m.) 

2. Reduce shots of Nisha being manhandled by the hero where the upper part of her bare thighs is seen. — 2 00 m. 
(Deleted completely.) 

3. Delete two hard hitting shots.— 3 00 m. 

Length of deletions : 7 -00 m. 

Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 83 00 m. 


“Badla” (Hindi) (Col.) 
(35 mm.) 


3772 -00(17) Century Films, 146- R. C. Kumar, Century 
Famous Cine Bldg., Films, 146-Famous 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay- Cine Bldg,, Bombay- 
11 11 . 


A 

3218 

With triangle mark. 

7-3-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3848 -00 m. 


Cut 

Reel 

No. 

No. 

1. 

I 

2. 

II 

3. 

III 

4. 

IV 

5. 

VI 

6. 

VII 

7. 

VIII 

8. 

X 

9. 

XIII 

10. 

XIII 

11. 

XIII 

12. 

XVII 


Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of young Raju addressed to his step mother 
"Tumhare b aap ka nahln k hata hoon” — 1 -00 m, 

Reduce the fight between Raju and Shatfker’s gang, by deleting bard hitting shots of blows and kicks 
on the chinand stomach. — 2 -00 m. 

( Length retained : 16 -00 m.) 

Delete the shot of a participant drinking during Govinda procession. — 1 -00 m. 

Delete the underlined word from the dialogue of Raju addressed to hoodlums :‘fTeri maon main 
bana karchhodunga.” — 1 -00 m. 

In the cabaret dance, delete close-ups of indecorous movements of midriff and bosoms of the girl. — 

1 -00 m. 

Delete the dialogue of Randliir addressed to Asha before attempting molestation : "Bina sikhe 
sasural jasogi to bhai ki badnami hogi.”— 2 00 m. 

Delete the shot of direct killing of a hireling (Alleged to be police informer) of Randhir in his den. — 

1 -00 m. 

In the cabaret dance, deleto the prominent shot s of indecorous movements of midriff and bosoms, — 
3 -00 m, 

Reduee considerably the light between Raju and Pinto in Nisha’s flat. — 6 -00 m. 

( Length retained : 13-00 m.) 

Reduce the impact of Neesha being killed by Randhir in close-range. — l -00 ni 
( Length retained : Nil) (Completely deleted) 

Delete the entire sequence of Randhir impersonating a doctor and strangulating Jagdish to doath In 
the hospital.— 25 00 m. 

Reduce the gun-battlo between the police and hirelings of Randhir including deletion of policemen 
being killed. Reduce tire fight between Randhir ana Raju and strangulation of Raju on bout and 
reduce their fight on hill top.— 32 -00 m. (Length retained : 75 -00 m.) 


Length of deletions : 76 -00 m. 

Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3772 -00 m. 



2174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part 111— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 

Endorsement Under Rule 34 
B/71 345-8 

Film : “Mr. Anchor" (English & Hindi) 

U-Ccrt. No. 69231 of 23-3-1972 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film In 
colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 6th 
March, 1974. 


C/7969 


CALCUTTA 


V 

Jadu Bangsha (Bengali) 4,586 '00(17) Montage Films, 3 Montage Films 2966 

(35 mm.) (India). Saklat Placo, Cal-13. With triangle mark 

4-3-74 

C/7969 

Film — Jadu Bangsha (Bangali) 

Endorsement.— 

Original length — 4.609 ‘75 m. 

Delete sconce showing crucifiod Christ and Sai Baba Lockot wherever they occur , 23 -75 m 

Final length after above delotions will be ........ 4,586 00 m 

Tho film is partly coloured. Tho longth of coloured and black and white portions 
is as follows j 

(/) Length of coloured portions 17 TOO ni 

(fi) Length of black & white portions . ....... 4,415 -00 m 

Total . . . 4,586 -00 m 


C/7964 


M/8170 


U 

Trailer of 'Lanya 160 02(1) N. S. Films (Manipur) G. Narayan Sharma 73384 

Parshuram’ (Mani- Paona Rd., Manipur, With triangle Mark 

puri) (35 mm.) (India). Imphal. 7-3-74 

Endorsement 

Original length — 162 '45 m. 

Reduce strangulation of the woman to the barest minimum .... 2 -43m 

(Length retained — 3 '65 m) 

Final length after above reduction will be — 160 -02 moires. 

MADRAS 


V 

‘Appa Amma' (Tamil) 3940-20(15) Simham Productions, Simham Productions, 67452 

(35 mm.) (B. & W.) Madras. Madras. With outs. 

(India). 5-3-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67452-L dt. 5-3-74 issued to tho film ‘Appa Amma’ (Tamil) 35 mm. B. & W. 
Length applied — 4023 -36 Mts. 

Cuts . — 

Metres 

1. Reel 3 — Delete the light with the rowdy 45 TO 

2. Reeel 8 — Delete hitting sound in the prison (Sound only) .... — 

3. Ree/11 — Delete Sadhu getting into the cupboard with the woman . , . 1-52 


4. Reel 12 — Reduce to a flash the Sadhu molesting the woman, particularly eliminat- 

ing his action on the bed. ( Retained — 2 -13) • 

5. Reel 13 — Song 5— Delete the action picturiscd for the words “Swarga 

Vasal Thirakkattum" 

( Replaced shot approved 1 -82). 

6. Reel 13 — Reduce to a flash, the stabbing of a woman in the flash-back sequence. 

( Retained 10 66 ) ........... 

7. Reel 15 — Reduce tho helpless condition of the blind child wandering in dangerous 

region. (Ramu must be brought to the child immediately she is seen in the field) 
( Retained 24 -38) ........... 


I -52 
1 -82 

0-91 

II -57 


8. Reel 1 ? — Reduce tho fight to its last stage in the den when the police take action. 

( Retained — 68 -87) ......... 22-54 


Total . 84-98 


Total replacement 1 -82 Metres. Actual length of film will be 3940 -20 Metres in 15 Reels. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2175 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


U 

M/8458 ‘Kai Niraya Kasu’ 3972 -14(16) Arunodaya, Mysore Aiunodaya, Mysore 67453 

(Tamil) (35 mm.) With cuts. 

B. & India) 5-3-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67453-U, dt, 5-3-74 issued to the film ‘Kai Niraya Kasu’ (Tamil) 35 mm, B. &W. 
Length applied 3972 -14 Metres. 

Cuts . — Mts. 

Reel 8 — in song 3, deleto the lines “Enn Meni Pallakkil Unn Meni Chendral Enna?” 
and also the shot of dancer on stool with parted legs giving movement of forward 
thrust of crotch. (Replaced shot ofThandavan— 0 -9) and approved words in song) 0 91 


Total 0 -91 


Actual length of film remains the same, namely 3972 ■ 14 Metres in 16 Reels. 

U 

M/8470 Trailer of ‘Sthree 91-44(1) Radhamadhav Movies. Radhamadhav Movies 67454 

Gowravam’ (Tolugu) Madras, Madras. 

(35 mm) (B. & W.) 5-3-74 

(India). 

U 

M/8463 ‘Ammayi Poll (Telugu) 4743 00(17) Bharani Combines, .. Bharani Combines, 67455 

(35 mm) (B. & W.) Madras. Madras, 

(India). 5-3-74 

U 

M/8462 ‘Thaai’ (Tamil) (35mm.) 4517 -74 (17) Babu Movies, Madras. Bttbu Movios, Madras. 67456 

(B. & W.) (India), — — With cuts. 

6-3-74 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67456-U dt. 6th March 1974 — issued to film ‘Thaai’ (Tamil) 35 mm. B.&W. 
Length applied — 4558 -56 Metros. 

Cuts . — 

Metres 

1. Reel 3 — Delete Minor’s sentence to Sivagami, “Neeyum Naayum Chinna Pillaya 

Irukkumpodhu Noo Gown Illamey, Nanan Trouser Tilamoy 
Vilayadaley, Appa Hind ha Vetkam Ippo Ennathukku” 4-56 

2. Reel 5 — Reduce Minor molosting Kaveritoa suggestion, deleting his pulling 

oil her upper garment. (No objection to the scene being retained after the 

arrival of Anandan on tho scone.) (Retained 15 -24) , . . 5-78 

Cuts . — 

Metres 

3. Reel 7— From tho dance is hotel on BGM, delete the following. — (a) the dancor 

shaking her pointed breasts over the face of Anandan. (Roplaced Kumar closc- 


up — 2 -43) 2-43 

(/>) the portion of the shot of the dancer on floor raising her bare leg to a side 

(Roplacod Kumar & orchestra — 2 -43) ...... 2-43 


4. Reel 8 — From the text of song 3 beginning with words "Nanu Parthalum Par- 

thendi,” delete the following five lines — “Koovathiley Kaasai Alii Pottiruk- 
kanga; Kooda Oru Mudhalayaum Vittirukkangam, Thundu Polta Manushanga 
Ellam Sutthikirangamma — Indha Naataikkooda Thundu Poda Ennikkviran- 
gamma.” (Sound only — replaced approved words) ..... 

5, Reel 1 5 — Delete the entire sequence of Minor with a poster telling Papamma about 


the illicit love and other dialogues till Papamma throws milk on his face . . 30-48 


Total . 45-68 


Total replacement 4 -86Mets. Actual length will be — 4517 74 Mets. in 17 Reels. 

u 

M /8447 ‘Nathoon, (Malaya- 4562-54(17) Malithara Productions, Shri Abdulla. Madras, 67457 

lam) (35 mm.) (B. Madras. With cuts. 

& W.) (India). 6-3-74 


Endorsement on cort. No, 67457-U dt. 6-3-74 issued to the film ‘Nathoon’ (Malavalam) 35 mm. B. &W. 
Length— 4567 -10 Motros. 

Cuts— 

Metres 

Reel 16 — Reduce molestation on Ponnainma to a suggestion — Deleting tho action 

pulling the sari and falling together on the cot. (Retained 5 -47) ■ • 4-56 


Total • -4-56 


Actual length of the film will be — 4562 • 54 Mts. In 17 Reels. 



2176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


M/8455 

M/8439 


M/8421 

M/8422 

M/8423 

M/8424 

M/8425 

M/8426 

M/8427 

M/8428 

M/8457 


B/71535 

B/71539 

B/71541 


U 

‘Madarasi Petra Manic 3962 40(17) Das Enterprises, Madras, Das Enterprises, Madras. 67458 

kam' (Tamil) (35 mm.) — — — 

B. & W. (India,). 6-3-74 

U 

‘Idu Namma Desha’ 3299 -30(14) Devar Pictures, Banga- Devar Pictures, Banga- 67459 

(Kannada) (35 mm.) lore, loro. With cuts, 

B. & W, (India). 7-3-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67459-U, dt. 7th March 1974 — issued to the film Tdu Namma Desha’ 

(Kannada) 35 mm. 

Length applied — 3308 57 Metros. 

Cuts. Metes 

1. Reel {—Delete action of police officer striking the girl .... 2 -58 

2. Reel 13 — Delete shot of the child tied to the revolving wheel . 6-69 


Total , , 9-27 


Actual length of the film will he — 3299.30 Metere i In 14 reels 


U 

‘Arogya Rahasiam’ 30 48(1) Film Media, Bombay. Shri Jyoti G. Thakur, 67460 


(Tamil) (Colour) 

(35 nun) (India). 

‘Chalaki Pillalu' 

(Tolugu) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

30 48(1) 

Do, 

Bombay. 

Do. 

7-3-74 

U 

67461 




7-3-74 

U 

67462 

‘Payrlge Pillelu’ 

(Telugu) (Colour) 

(35 mm) (India). 

‘Beleyuwa Makkalu’ 
(Kannada) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

‘Jana Makkalu’ (Kan- 
nada) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (India). 

'Midukkaraya kuttigal' 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

30 48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

7-3-74 

U 

67463 

30 48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

7-3-74 

U 

67464 

30 48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

7-3-74 

U 

67465 

(35 mm.) (India). 

‘Nalla Arogyatinte 
Rahasyam ‘(Malyalara) 
(Colour) 35mm. India. 

30.48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

7-3-73 

U 

67466 




7-3-74 

U 

67467 

‘Valarum 

Kutigal ‘(Malyalam) 
Colour 35mm. India. 

30.48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 




7-3-74 

‘Keep it Clean’ 

/"Erifflikhl fPnlnnrt 

175.55(1) 

Lucas Indian Shevice 
Ltd,, Madras. 

C.A.V. Ltd., London, 
U. K. 

67468 

16mm, U.K 


7-3-74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATE BY THE CENTRAL 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE 
WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH, 1974. 

BOMBA Y 


“Top Man” (English 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


“Iniharu Kina Sukhi 
Chhan" (Nepali) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


“Chara-Ko-Updesh” 
(Nepali) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


37 '19(1) Amrit Arts, Vishwes- Amrit Arts, Vishwe- 
hwar Mandir, T, H. shwar Mandir, T. H, 
Kataria Rd., Mahini 
Bombay-16. 


Kataria Rd., Mahim, 
Bombay-16. 


271 -88(1) 


75-59(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74465 

11-3-74 


U 

74466 Not. P. E. 


11-3-74 


U 

74467 P.E. 


11-3-74 



2177 


Part III— 
l 

B/71540 

B/71409 

B/71463 

B/7 1438-39 
46-47 

B/71449 

B/71455 

B/71453 

B/71392 

B/7 1393 

B/71416 

B/71457 

B/71482 

B/7 1480 

B/71595 

B/7 1596 

B/71 576-77 


■Sec, 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


“Shantan-Ko-Chahna” 
(Nepali) (Colour) 
(35mm. ) 


“Trailer of "Chiidi 
Chanel lo' 1 (Gujara'ti) 
(35mm.) 


“On The Fashion 
Scene” (Hindi) (Co- 
flour) (35mm.) 


“In To The World of 
Wonders" (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(USSR) 

“Around The Soviet 
Union No, 102" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (USSR) 

"Russian Lace" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm. ) (USSR.) 


“How Tho Donkey 
Saught Happiness" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (USSR.) 

“Young Artisans" 
(Eng.) (35mm.) 


“Growing Groundnut 
(English) (35mm.) 


“Royal Visitors From 
Nepal” (English) 
(35mm.) 


“Trailer of” Dur Nahin 
Manzil" (HINDI) 
(Col.) (35mm.) 


“Trailer of Do Chat- 
tane” (Hindi) (Col.) 
(35mm.) 


“Trailer of Khote 
Sikkay” (Hindi) 

(Col.) (35mm.) 


‘Indian News Review 
No. 1326" (35mm.) 


‘Indian News Review 
No. 1326” (Western 
Edition) (35mm.) 


‘Maharashtra Nows 
No. 261" (Marathi 
& (Hindi) (35mm.) 


U 

74468 P.F. 


11-3-74 

U 

74469 


11-3-74 
U 

30 40(1) Mafatlal Group of Indra Bilani United 74470 

Mills, 2, Scindia Film Makers, 311- — .. — — 

House, Janpath, New 12, Himalaya House 11-3-74 

Delhi, Palton Road, 

Bombay-400001 . 

U 

223 00(2) u. S. S. R. Consulate Georgian Popular 74471 (Valid for Hindi, 

General 42, Nepean Science & Documcn- ■ — — Marathi & Gujarati 

Sea Road, Bombay-6. tary Film Studio. 11-3-74 versions. 


280(1) 

Do. 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio 

U 

74472 



i hi n oMjuiy. 

11-3-74 

262(1) 

U. S. S. R. Consulate 
General, 42-Nepean 
Sea Road, Bombay-6. 

Do. 

U 

74473 



11-3-74 

279(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74474 




11-3-74 




U 


292 00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 74475 P.E. 

of India, 24 Pcddar of India, 24-Peddar — — 

Road, Bombay-26, Road, Bombay-26. 11-3-74 

U 

286 00(1) Do. Do. 74476 P.E. 


11-3-74 

U 

463 '00(2) Do. Do. 74477 Not P.E. 


11-3-74 

U 

82-91(1) Haxi Valia, Mahesh Hari Valia, Mahesh 74478 

Villa, Worli, Bombay, Villa, Worli, Bombay, — — — 

11-3-74 


91-44(1) Appollo International Joginder, 12-Ksara, 240 74479 

12-Ksara, 240 Pali Pali Rd., Bandra, — 

Rd., Bandra, Bombay- Bombay-50. 12-3-74 

50. 

U 

91 -14 Happy Films, Dhun N. D. Kothri, 7/1 Air 74480 

Villa, Varsova Rd., Conditioned Market - - — 

Andheri-61, Bombay-34. 12-3-74 

U 

231 -34(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 74481 (Valid for English 

of India, 24-Pcddar of India, 24-Peddar — Hindi, Tamil' 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 13-3-74 Telugu, Kannada,’ 

Malaya) am, As- 
samese, Oriya, 

Punjabi, Bengali, 

Kashmiri Sc Urdu, 

varsions.) 

U 

300-53(1) Do. Do. 74482 (Valid for English, 

— 7 ' Hindi, Marathi’ 

13-3-74 Gujarati & sin- 

dhi. Versions.) 

U 

259 -00(1) The Director General The Director General 74483 

of Information & of Information Si ■ 

Public Relations, Public Relations, 13-3-74 
Govt, of Maharashtra. Govt, of Maharashtra. 


52 - 1 2(1 ) Amrjt Arts, Vishweshwar 

Mandir, T. H. Kataria, Rd., Mahim, 
Bombay-16 

111-56(1) M/s. Lux Films, Ka- M/s Chetan Chitra. 
thok Lodge, Main 
Rd,, Dadar, Bombay-14. 



2178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


5 


6 


7 


B/71216 


B/5396J 


B/71430 


B/71418 


U 

“Trailer of Vada Tera 79-90(1) Vashdev Shroff, Vashdov Shroff, 74484 With triangle mark. 

Vada” (Hindi) (CoT Thakkar Films In- Thakkar Films In — — . 

our) (35mm.) tcrnational, 149- ternational, 149- 13-3-74 

Famous Cine Bldg, Famous Cine Bldg, 

Mahalaxmi, Bombay Mahalaxmi, Bombay- 

41. 11. 


Endorsement: 

Original Longth : 83 -52m. 

1. Delete the superimposed title “Love & Lust and killing of bird with a running fan,. — 0 -65m. 

2. Delete the reply of a stranger in bed addressed to the girl “Raat gujar gai, aaj baat bhi bhool gayce memsaab" 
— 0-65m. 


3. Reduce by half tho slaps given by Danny to another man.- — 0 -54m. 

{Length retained : 112 m.) 

4. Delete the remark of heroine “Abortion ke liyo nahi” addressed to her friend when he suggests about his 
friendship with doctors. — 0-65 m. 

5. Delete a flirtatious-type of girl addressing heroine: “Main wo bewaqooph ladkiyonse nahi hoon main jaanati 
hoon, main yehan kis liye aayce hoon”, when she is found in tho company of her lover. — 1 -13 m. 

Length of deletions : 3 -62 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he: 79 -90m. 


“America Paese Di 
Dio” (English) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Italy) 


U 

2919 -65(12) Educational Films of Titanus International. 74485 P. E. With triangle 
India, Division of — — — - mark. 

Film Library Pvt., 15-3-74 

Ltd., 190 D. N. Rd„ 

Bombay-1. 


Endorsement: 

Original Length : 3048 -00m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1 VI : Delete all shots of girls with bare bosoms and with thinly covered blouse on their bosoms shown in 
the restaurant.— -18 -90m. 

2. VII : Delete all shots of the torture of the calf of dragging it, branding it with red hot iron and clipping 

and sawing off its horn.— 52 -43 m. 

3. X : (i) Delete shots of (a) dance of topless girls 5 -91m. (b) parading of two scantily cladgirls with part 

of their bosoms and posteriors discernible and 2 -61m,(c) Close shot of girls flipping their scan- 
tily covered posteriors 3 -77 m. 

(ii) Reduce considerably tho sequence of the Carnival of angels deleting: 

(a) their bouts with tho police 2 -04 m. 

(b) the shot of the angol riding a motorcycle and there after immediately falling from it. — 
5-22 m. 

(c) the shot of blood smeared face of an angle.— 8 -03 m. 

4. XI : (a) Delete shot of h beatle pouring wine on the navel of a girl and another sipping it off. — 5 -79 m. 

(b) Reduce prolonged kissing between a boy and a girl sitting on the shoulders of the beatlcs.— 9 -44m 
—9 -44m. 

(c) Delete shot of a boatle caressing the posterior of a girl and kissing her,. — 4 02 m. 

(d) Delete the following words as spoken by a slogan monger : "LBJ ; how many people you have 
killed”? 5 -19m. 


length of deletions : 123 -35m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be: 2919 -65 in, in 12 reels, 


“Vasant-One" (Mara- 
thi) (Colour) (35mm) 


U 

98.16(1) Cinema Workshop, Cimema Workshop, 74486 

National House, National House, — — — — 
6-Tulloch Road, 6-Tulloch Road, 15-3-74 

Bombay-400039, Bombay-400039. 


"A Vital Decision” 
(English) (35mm.) 


U 

194-00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 74487 P.E. 
of India, 24-Poddar of India, 24-Pcddar - - — — — 
Road, Bombay-26, Road, Bombay-26. 1 5-3-74 


B/71575 “Trailer of Kshitij” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


U 

71 -63(1) Roopkamini Inter- Roopkamini Inter- 74488 

national, 5-F Naaz national. 5-F Naaz — 

Bldg., Lamington Bldg., Lamington 15-3-74 

Road, Bombay^!, Bombay, Road, -4 



2179 


part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/71479 “Programming, Sche- 
duling ProceodureS, 
Budgeting, Planning" 
(English) (16mm.) 
(UK.) 


B/71478 “Delegating Respon- 
sibility & Athority 
(English) (16mm.) 


B/71477 "Establishing Effec- 

tive Working Re- 
Utionshipa" (English) 
(16mm.) 

B/71476 “Process of Manage- 

ment” (English) 
(16mm.) (UK.) 


B/7147J “Motivating” (English) 
(16mm.) (UK.) 


B/71498- “I Want To Be A 
71503 Worker” (35mm.) 
(Colour) 


199-85(1) Hindustan Aeronau- Louis A Allen 
tics Limited. Bombay Associates. 


U 

74489 P.E. 


15-3-74 


U 

191 -93(1) Do. Do, 74490 

P.E. 

15-3-74 

U 

204-12(1) Do. Do. 74491 

— — — P.E. 
15-3-74 


210-83(1) Do. 


Do. 


188-67(1) Hindustan Aeronau- Louis A Allen 
tics Ltd. Associates. 


508-00(2) U. S. S. R. Consulate Central Documentary 
General. Film Studio. 


U 

74492 

P.E. 

1 5-3-74 

U 

74493 

— P.E. 

15-3-74 


U 

74494 


16-3-74 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Giijarati, Punjabi 
& Telugu versions.) 


B/71504-11 “Around The Soviet 
Union No. 99" (Col- 
our) (16mm. )(USSR) 


B/71 J12-19 “Ostankino” (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USSR,) 


B/70359 “Kora Btdan” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


Endorsement'. 


U 

112 -00(1) Do. Do. 74495 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi, 

16-3-74 Gujarati, Punjabi, 

Tamil, Telugu 
& Malayalam” 
versions.) 

U 

222 -00(2) Do. Do. 74496 (Valid for English, 

— — — Hindi, Marathi, 

16-3-74 Bengali, Punjabi, 

Telugu, Kannada 
& Malayalam 
versions.) 

A 

3657 '60(14) Brar Productions, 11, Boota Singh Shaad, 3219 With triangle mark. 

Surang Hotel, San- 11, Surang Hotel, — • 

tacruz, (W) Santacruz, (W) 15-3-74 

Bombay-54. Bombay-54. 


Original Length : 3721 -28 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1, T : Delete the lip to check proximity between Mahesh and Neelam as occured twice during the song. 

—2 -35. m. 

(Length replaced : 2 -35 nt.) 

2, /( : Delete the suggestion of kiss between Mama and Champa In bed. — 4 -29 m. 

3, IV : Reduce the passionate gestures of Mcena in bod with Mahesh, as seen in her imagination, 8 -69 m, 

(Length tetained : 5 -35 m.) 

4, V : (a) Delete the suggestion of kiss between Maheih and Neelam before they go off the screen. — 2-05 

(b) Reduce the cabaret dance, deleting the indecent close view of bust jerkingmovements, and 
also the indecont movements of the hip by the dancer. — 8 -34 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 8 -34 m.) 

5 , VI : (a) Reduce drastically love making scene between Meena and Mahesh as imagined by her, and her 

reactions on the bod, keeping only a suggestion for establishing her passion for him. — 1 1 -04 m. 

(Length retained : 2 -66 in.) 

(b) Reduce the indecorous and passionate gestures of Meena during the song “Meri jawani, . . ." 
and immgined by her. — 14 -39 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots 14 -39 m.) 

(Length retained '■ 15-87 m.) 

6— 369GI/75 



2180 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

6. VI : Reduce suitably the fight between Mahesh and the bald man, including the close view of neck being 

pressed down with a stick. — 3 -77 m. 

( Length retained ; 20-11 m.) 

7. VII : Delete the sentence “Ketch humse bhi dhulwa lo" as spoken to Champa by Mama, as also the 

suggestivo sound of whistling by Mama when she walks towards him. — 1 -52 m. 

8. VII : (a) In the rape scene of Champa, reduce the panting and short breathing by her. 0 -39 m. 

( Deleted completely) 

(b) Reduce the fight botween Mahesh. Taxiwala and his men and also delete the sound effect of 
stabbing. — 2 -98 m. 

{Deleted completely), 

9. IX : Reduce to a (lash the superimposed view of a man being fragged by horse during the raid by dacoits. 

—0 -91m. 

{Length retained : 0-91 m.) 

10. IX : Delete the dialogues of Lnlaji to his wife with reference to "Ghanti bajana” etc. 6 -44 m. 

11. X : Delete the dialogues between the two comedians : 

“Turn ghodi ban, Mein upar chhadta hoon" 

"Sambalna, main upar chhad ro ha hai” 

“Yahan nahin, upar chhad’’ 

"Abe teri ” etc. 1 -65 m. 

12. X : Delete the flashes of lip to cheek proximity between Mahesh and Ncelam as seen by her in her 

imagination. — 9 -33 in. 

13. XT : Delete the view of Mala Slnha pointing towards her breasts on the word "Doodh" In the beginning 

of the song. -2 -50 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 -50 m.) 

14. XII : (a) Delete the gestures of comedian making water and also the dialogue “Jagah bhlgodi" and 

“upar ko aa raha hai". 6-40 m. 

(b) Delete the reference to “Ram” in comparison with 'daku’ 1 '28 m. 

15. XIV ; In the fight reduce the goncral fight and also the views of hitting on the stomach and hitting with the 

butt of the gun,— 2 -94 m. 

Length of Deletions : 91 -26 m. 

Length of Approved replacement : 27 -58 m. 

Actual Length of the Film after the aforesaid alterations will he : 3657 -60 m. 

A 

B/71460 "Goonj" (Hindi) 3701-50(15) Sangam Films, Ashir- A. V. Mohan, Sangam 3220 With triangle mark. 

(Colour) (35mm.) wad, a-A Vithal Films Bombay-56. ■ 

Nagar, Society, 10th 15-3-74 

Rd., luhu, Bombay-56. 

Erulosedoment 

Original Length : 3727 -71 m. 

Cut Flo. Reel No. 

1. Ill : Delete kissing between Meetia and Raju during the picturisation of song.— 0 -80 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -80 m.) 

2. IX : Reduce considerably the entire scene of Rakesh and Meena making love in bed. — 15-54m, 

( Length retained : 41 -45 m.) 

3. XV : In the fight, delete shots of hard hitting, kicks on the chin and prominent view of blood smeared 

face 10 -67 m. ' 

Length of deletions : 27-01 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 0 ’80 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he : 3701 50 m. in 15 reels. 

Endorsement Under rule 34. 

B/71464 

Film : “Orange Explosion" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74385 of 19-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged This cert 
fleate was endorsed on 11th March, 74. ’ ’ 

B/71465 

Film : “Narangi Tnquilab” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74370 of 16-2-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Tclugu versions of the film In colour. The length of the film remains 

unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th March, 1974. 



2181 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


C/7882 


M/8488 


M/8489 

M/8436 


B/71578-9 

Film : "Top Man” (English) 

U-Ccrt. No. 74465 of 11-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th March, 1974' 

B/70679 

Film t "Mehamaan" (Hindi) (Col.) 

U-Cert. No. 73819 of 13-11-1973. 

Deleted various shots : 44 -48 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 178 -42 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 15 -3-74. 

WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH, 1974 
CALCUTTA 


Mopin (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
India. 


‘Vartha Chitra 28’ 

(Kannada) (35 mm.) 
(B & W) India. 

‘Vartha Chitra 29’ 

(Kannada) (35 mm.) 

(B&W) India. 


121 '92(1) Dcvjani Chaliha & Devoid Chaliha & 
Associates, P-20, Golf Associates. 

Club Road, Cai-33. 

MADRAS 

242 '31(1) Director of Informa- Director of Informa- 

tion & Publicity, tion & Publicity, 
Bangalore Bangalore, 

243 84(1) Do. Do. 


U 

73385 P.E. 


12-3-74 


U 

67469 


12-3-74 

U 

67470 


12-3-74 


‘Kode Naagu’ (Telugu) 4216 '60(16) Rajendra Prasad Shri M. S. Reddy, 67471 With cuts. 

(Colour) (35 mm.) Combines, Madras. Madras. 

India. 12-3-74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67471-U, dt. 12th March 1974 issued to the film ‘Kode Naagu' (Telugu) (Colour). 
Length applied ■ 4265 00 m. 


Cuts . — Metres. 

1. Reel 3 — Delete Nagaraju actually throwing stones at the Principal’s house 1-52 

2. Reel 5 —In the fighting scene between Nagaraju and Saleem, delete 

Nagaraju kicking on the chest of Saleem with his boot when 
Saloem is down lying flat on the ground. • 2 '58 

3. Reel 6 — Delete Varadachari’s sentence “Padma Shri birudu ivvalainde” 

referring to Julie. 1 '97 

4. Reel 1 3 — Delete the dialogues of Sanyasya and his two friends beginning 

from “Mugguram vunnamu.” upto Swadesh aaruke better. 10 '81 

5. Reel 14 — From the picturisation of song "Katha Vinduva”, delete Amruta- 

valli's husband pushing her into a room and later the sequence 
in the room where a customer pushes her on bed and falls 
over her on bed. (Replaced atmosphere shot: (6 09). . , 6 09 

6. Reel 16 — Reduce to bare minimum shots of bodies of Nagaraju and 

Julie with prominently seen blood stains after they leep to 

death. 4 '40 


7. Reel. 16 — -Delete he close-shot of teacher Rama Sarma’s blood stained 
face. .......... 


Total replacement 6 09 Mts. in Reel 14 — Voluntary deletion in Total 54 49 
Reel 10 & 11 27-12. ■ . . - 


Approved replacement ; 27 -12 mts. 

Actual length Is 4216-60 metres In 16 Reels. 


M./8468 


M/8473lo 

M/8476 


‘Balaranra Srce 5148 -36(20) Sankar Art Films, 
Krishna (Kannada) Vijayawada 

colour (35 m m. India. 


U 

Shri K. Giri Sankara 67472 

Rao, Vijayawada. — 

12-3-74 


U 

‘Ungal Ellorukkum 137-16(1) Ramu Kariat & Ramu & Kariat 67473 

Oru Nalla Thittam’ Associates, Madras. Associates, Madras. — P.E. 

(Tamil, Telugu, 1 5-3-74 

Kannada and 
Malayalam) 35 mm. 

(Colour), India. 



2182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part 111— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

U 

M/8492. 'Tamilnadu • Govt. 305 '00(1 ) The Directorate of The Directorate of 67474 

Regional News Information and Information and — — 

Bulletin 112’ (Tamil) Public Relations, Public Relations, 15-3-74 

35mm. B&W India Madras. Madras. 

PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE Weak ending 23rd March 1974 
BOMBAY 


U 

B/71303 “Dare The Sun” 30 48(1) Keith Allams (M/s. Keith Allams (Ms. 74497 

(English) (Colour) KAPPA) 1-A KAPPA) Bombay-50 

(35mm.) Monisha, St. 18-3-74 

Andrew’s Road, 

Bandra, Bombay-30 


U 

B/71436 “Operation Environ- 95 -71(1) Tmage India films Peter Von Zahn & Uwe 74498 P.e. 

mont" (Einsatzort; Pvt. Ltd., Krauss. 

Umwolt) (English) 18-3-74 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(W. Germany) 

U 

B/71365 "Chor Machayc Shor” 3996-53(15) N. N. Sippy, 4-B, N, N. Sippy, 4-B 74499 With triangle mark 

’ (Hindi) (Colour) Naaz Building, Lami- Naaz Building, Land — 

(35mm.) ngton Rd. Bombay-4 ngton Road, Bombay-4 18-3-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4097 -93 m. 

Cut No. Reel No. 

1. 11 : Delete the impression of a kiss between Vijay and Rekha during the picturisation of song. — 0 -69m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -69 m.) 

2. Ill : Dialogue pertaining to Maharaja’s daughter doing cabaret dance in hotel may be changed as it 

is likely to be considered derogatory. (Replaced with approved words) (Deleted sound only). 

3. IV : Delete the word ‘Saale’ when Raju and Fulwa make reference to the administration of jail. 

(Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved words). 

4. IV : Delete the kiss between the Vijay and Rekha at the end of the reel,— 0 -53 ni. 

5. VII : During the scene Jamnadas discuss his election strategy with hirelings, delete the impression 

of Jamnadas fighting election for a particular party because his hirelings are wearing Khadi and 
Gandhi caps and appear to belong to a well known political party. (Impiession has been removed 
by adding approved words). 

6. VII : Delete the impression of kiss between Vijay and Rekha. — 0-69 m. 

7. VIII : Reduced the fight between Vijay’s gang and daeoils. — 7 -40 m. (Length retained : 42-36 m.) 

8. IX : Delete the prominent views of the nude picture on the back of Fulwa. — 7-54 m. (Replaced with 

approved shots 1 : -26 m.) 

9. IX : (a) Delete all prominent close ups of Chandramukhi's breast as seen by Raju and his gang — 

2 '44 m. 


(b) Delete the Raju's suggestive dialogue of Chandramukhi : “ , , , .Palangpar,” (Deleted sound 
only ) (Replaced with approved words). 

(c) Delete the dialogue about sharing of the girl by all and Fulwa's dialoguo “Ustad ko baad hum. . ” 
and its, repetition. — 1 1 -12 m. 

10. X. Delete suggestion of a kiss between Raju and Chandramukhi. Also delete the scene of Raju 

untying hor blouso. — 3-01 m. 

11. X : Reduce the fight between Vijay and Raju in particular deleting Vijay’s hard hitting blows on Raju’s 

stomach and chin. — 7 '51 m. (Length retained : 34 . 31 m.) 


12. XU : In the scene of Jamnadas where he is showing the replace of golden statue to a foreigner, reduce 

the scene to the minimum by keeping only a sboit reference . — 5 -92 m. (Length retained : 31 -37 m.) 

13. XIII : Reduced considerably the beating of dacoits by Vijay.— 9 -89 m. (Length retained : 14 '02 m.) 

14. XIV : (i) Reduced considerably the gun-battle between dacoits and Vijay’s gang. —5-58 m, (Longth 

retained : 6 -37 m.) 

XV (ii) Delete the shots of bullets bursting one the back of dacoits.- ~1 08 m. 

& 

XVI (lii) Reduce to a flash the shots of dragging of Raju behind a horse. — I -03 m. (Length retained : 

I -40 m.) 

(iv) Reduce drastically the scene of Raju and his gang being hanged by their feet retaining only 
a small fish for suggestion. — 17 -12m (Replaced with approved shots : 0 -47 m.) (Length 

retained : 9 .03 m.) 

(v) Delete the remarks of Jamnadas with reference to the heroine “Usko nangi kar do”. O' 52 m 

(vi) Reduce considerably the dragging of two dacoits behind a horse by retaining only one small 
flash , — 2-63 m, (Length retained : 2-07 m.) 

(vii) Reduce sconsiderably tho hand to hand fight kicks and blows : 16-07 m. (Length retained : 
18-50 m.) 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2183 


1 


2 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B[714‘35(l) 


B/71 526-33 


B/71589-94 


B/71 564-71 


B/71 5 80 


B/71 640 


B/71641 


B/71637-8 


B/71 520 


B/71 452 

R/71454 


(viii) Delete the shot of Raju’s blood smeaied hand from where he puls a blood ‘tika’ (in his fore- 
head and delete the subsequent shots of has shov mg the blood smeared hand to Rekha.— 
9 -42m. (Related with approved shots - 6 -37m 


Length of deletions : 110-19 m. 

Length of approved replacement - : 8-79 m. 

Actual length of the fdm after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3995-53 in 15 reels. 


Mercedes-Benz 218.54 

Builds Cars (1) 

(McrccdOj Benz 

Buut Auls) (English) 

(16 mm.) (colour) 

(W. Germany). 


Image India Films, Pctci Von Zahn & 
Pvt. Ltd., Bombay. Uwc Krauss. 


Central Popular 
Science Stui io, 

(16 mm.) 

(USSR.) 


‘‘Blues Are Attack- 
ing" (Colour) 


220-00 ( 2 ) 


USSR Consulate 
General — 2 


“Adventures of the 111-00(1) USS.R Consulate Ge- Soyuozmult F 1m Stu- 
eucumber" (Colour) neral Bombay. djo. 

(16 mm) (USSR). 


“Around The Soviet 112-00(1) 
Union No. 94” (Col.) 

(USSR) (16mrr). 


Do. 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio. 


"Around The Soviet 111-00(1) Do. Do. 

Union No. 97” (Tc- 
lugu) (Colour) (16 
mm). 


“Indian News Review 213 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Divisioi , Govt. 
No. 1327" (3 5mm). of India, 24, Peddar of India, Bom bay-26. 

Road, Bombay-26. 


‘Indian News Review 303 -00(1) Do. Do. 

No. 1327” N.fc. (35mm.) 


U 

74500 Not P. E. 


18-3-74 


U 

74601 (Valid for 

— Marathi, Flindi 

19-3-74 Gujaiati’ Punjabi, 

Tamil, Malay a lam, 
Tclugu, & Bengali 
versions) 

U 

74602 (Valid ft r Gujarati, 

— Punjabi, Bongali, 

19-3-74 Telugu, -Cannada & 

MaDyulim, ver- 
sions.) 

U 

74603 (Valid for Gujarati, 

— — Hindi, Marathi, 

19-3-74 Bengali, Tamil, Te- 
lugu, Malayalam 
& Kannada ver- 
sions,) 

U 

74604 
19-3-74 


U 

74605 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi, 

20-3-74 Gujarati Tamil, 

Tclugu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, As- 
samese, Oriya & 
Bengali versions). 

U 

74606 (Valid for English, 
Hindi, Kashmiri, 

20-3-74 Punjabi & Urdu 
versions ) 


‘Maharashtra News 
No. 262" (Hindi & 
Marathi) (35 mm). 


‘Billions For The 
Millions” (16 mm) 
USSR. 


“Wolcomc” (Gujarat hi) 
(16 mm) (USSR). 


“Ural Trucks” (Ben- 
gali) (16 mrn) (USSR) 


U 

298 -00(1) The Director Gene- Tho Director General 74607 

ral of Information of Information & — — 

& Pub ic Relation. Public Relation, 20-3-74 
Bombay-34. Bombay-34. 

U 

230-00(2) USSR Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 74608 (Valid fo'Gujarathi 

norai Bombay. Films Studio. — - — Punjabi, Telugu, 

20-3-75 Malayalam, Ben- 
gali, Marathi, 
versions i. 

U 

165-00(2) Do. Do. 74609 


20-3-74 

U 

101-00(1) Do. Sverdlovsk Filn Slu- 74610 

dio. 


20-3-74 



2184 


l 

B/71456 

B/71642 

B/71152 

B/71472 

B/71473 

B/71471 

B/71474 

B/71470 

B/71604 

B/71605 

B/70700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


2 


3 


4 


5 



"Along The Rod 

Square Under The 
Red Banner” (Ma- 
rathi) (Colour) (16 
mm) (USSR). 

“Uttar Pradesh Sarnu- 
char No. 22” (Hindi) 
(35 mm.), 

"Manavata (Gujarati) 
(35 mm.) 


“Initiating And De- 
ciding” (English) (16 
(mm) (U.K.). 


“Developing People” 
(English) (16 mm.) 


"Forecasting — Set- 
ting Objectives" (En- 
glish) (U.K.), 

"Developing of Per- 
formance” Standar- 
ds” (English) (16 
mm) (U.K.). 

“Communicating” 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 

“Punjab News Reel 
No. 6” (Punjabi (35 
mm). 


"Punjab Nows Reel 
No. 7” (Purjabi) (35 
mm). 

“Kshilij” (Hindi) (Co- 
lour) (35 mm), 


U 

217-00(2) Do, Central Documentary 74611 

Film Studio. — — 

20-3-74 


U “ 

276-75(1) Dhirendra Pande. The Director of In- 74612 

formation Govt, of 

Uttar Pradesh. 20-3-74 

U 

164-59(1) Filrni Saudagars, 11- Filmi Saudagars, 74613 

Kshitij, Adarsh Bombay-64. 

Society, Ramehandra 20-3-74 


Lane, Malad (W) 

Bombay-64. 

U 


187 -76(1) 

Hindustan Aeronau- 

Louis A. Allen Asso- 

74614 

tics 

42. 

Ltd,. Ilyderabad- 

ciates. 

20-3-74 

U 

188 -98(1) 


Do. 

Do. 

746)5 

20-3-74 

U 

199-95(1) 


Do. 

Do. 

74616 

20-3-74 

u n 

207 -87(1) 


Do. 

Do. 

74617 

20-3-74 


P.E. 

P.E 

P.E. 


U 

195-07 (1) Do. Do. 74618 

P.E. 

20-3-74 


U 

297-18(1) R. K. Gupta, Bom- Director Public Re- 74619 

bay Film Lab. lations Punjab, Cha- 

Pvt, Ltd., 149-S.K, ndigarh, 21-3-74 

Bolo Rd., Dadar, 

Bombay-28 D.D. 

U 

299-92(1) Do. Director Public Re- 74620 

lations Punjab, Cha- 

ndigarh. 21-3-74 


3545-84(15) Roopkaminj 
national. 


U 

Inter- H. O. B. Prasad, 74621 with triangle mark. 

Roopkamini Inter 

national, 21-3-74 


Endorsement — 


Original Length 3557-93 m. 


Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 . 1 

2. Ill 

3. X 

4. X 

5. X 

6. XI , 

7. XIV 


In the inter-cut negative exposures (solarised sequence) delolo ihe second and tho third shots showing 
bare-bodied couple making lovo on bod. — 21.25 m. (Replacod with approved shots 21 -25 m). 
From the dialogues ol Jogindtr with Shwla delote the underlined words horn tho following hues 
Sheola : Is ko anusaar napunsi k vyukti ki bjbi doosre aadmi so bachha paida karva sakti thi." 
Joginder : “ Mahabharat he Eimdu, DhiUarashtra, Vidm isi larah patta huye ham aur ye paan nahin 
samjha jata I ha." — 2 -03 m. 

Reduce the first shot of Rita b ing over a boy in bed retamig the second shot for suggestion — 0 -30 m. 
(Length retainod : 0 -61 m.), 

During the photography scqujneo. delete the shot from the moment the man removes Shoola’s bra 
from hot person and shows it to the camera with a wink. — 1 -12 m. 

Reduce the fight between Dhuaj and Kishan deleting the gruesome visuals. — 7 -12 m. 

(Length retained 27-13 m.). 

Delete the underlined w-ords from the following dialogues of Ihe photographer addressed to Sheela, 
with reference taking nude photographs of lior “Us din ka scene naqli tha, aaj asli haga . — 1 -52 m. 
From tho cabaret sequence, delete all tho shots in which the cabaret dancer keeps tho microphone in 
front ol' hor lace and recites shlokas fn.m ‘Kumarasambhavam’ (There is no objection to the shots 
showing Parvati Shankor dance on tho stage) 27 -65 m. 

(Replacod with approved shots — 27 -65 m.). 

Length of deletions 60 -99 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 48 -90 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alteration will be 3545 -84 m. in 15 Reels. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRATIAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


B/71599 

B/71614 

B/71552 

B/71613 

B/71291 

B/71290 

B/7I289 

B/71468 

B/71467 

B/71417 

B/71611 

B/71572 

D/71 279 

B/71278 

B/71277 


“Sohani Rant” 3121.46(11) 
Hindi (35 mrn.) 


“D.C M. Sarees” 30 -48(1) 

(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm). 


"Elasticity And Bias- 152 '40(1) 
ticity” •'English) (35 mm). 


“Peera Hare, Achha 30 -48(1) 
Karo" (Hindi) (35 mm). 


“Caribou of Northern 153*01(1) 
Canada" (English) 

(Col.) (16 mm) (Ca- 
nada). 


“The Huntsman” (En. 186-84(1) 

glish) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (Canada). 

“A Special Place” 147-55(1) 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm,) (Canada). 

“Pyas” (Hindi) (Co- 29-87(1) 

lour) (35 mm). 


"Thirst” (English) 29 -87(1) 
(Colour) (35 mm), 


"Our Striking Forco” 225 -00(1) 
(English) (35 mm). 


“Wanted Alive” (En- 70 -00(1) 
glish) (35 mm). 


"Applique Of Orissa” 292-00(1) 
(English) (Colour). 


“The Motor Effect” 16-00(1) 
(Silent) (8 mm.) (U. K.). 


"Secondary Cell" 16 -00(1) 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U. K.). 


“Sense Of Hearing” 16-00(1) 

(Silent) (Colour) (8 
mm.) (U.K.). 


U 

S. Saran, Top floor, 153 S. Saran, Top floor, 153 74622 

Asha Nivas, Naigaum, Asha Nivas, Naigaum, 

Dada.r Bombay- 14. Dadar, Bombay-14. 22-3-74 

U 

74623 


M/s. Television Radio 
& Motion Pictures 
6-A, Rnshmi. 
Carmichal Road, 
Bombay-400026. 


M/s. Television 
Radio & Motion Pic- 
tures, 6-A, Rashrnl 
Charmichal Road, 
Bombay-400026. 


D. N. Kapadia, Vijay D. N. Kapadia. Ban- 
Nagar, No, 5, R. N. dra, 

135, Bandra Hous- 
ing Collany, Ban- 
dra. 


Film Medi i, 47 
Laxmi Insurance 
Building, Sir P.M. 
Road, Bombay-1. 

National Education 
& Information, Fil- 
ms, Nation U 
House, Tulloch Rd., 
Apollo Bander, 
Bombay. 

Do, 


Do. 


Mr. Juoti G. Thakur, 
Film Media, Bombay-1 


National Film Board 
of Canada. 


Do. 


22-3-74 


U 

74624 

22-3-74 


U 

74625 


Do. 


M/s. Film 5, Jyoti M/s. Film 5, Jyoti 
Studios, Kcddedy Studios, Kennedy 
Bridge, Bombay- Bridge, 

400007. 400007. 


22-3-74 

U 

74626 

22-3-74 


U 

74627 

22-3-74 

U 

74628 

22-3-74 

U 

74629 


Do. 


Do. 


Bombay- 22-3-74 
U 

74630 


Films Division, Go- Films Division, Go- 
vornmont of India, vernment of India, — 

24-Pcddur Road, 24-Pcddnr Road, 

Bombay-26 Bombay-26. 

fssar Films, 2, Mitra Issar Films, 2, Mitra 
Milan, 68, Chipel Rd., Milan, 68. Chapel Rd., 
Bandra, Bom aay-50. Bandi a Bombay-50 

Twin Films. Dilip Dutta, Twin 

Films, 22/339 Si- ■ 
dharthnagar-4, Go- 
regaon-West Bom- 
bay-62. 


Cinema Workshop, Macmillan & Corn 
National House, 6 
Tulloch Road, Bom- 
bay-1 . 


22-3-74 

U 

74631 

22-3-74 


Do. 


Do. 


Cinema Workshop, Macmillan & Ccm. 
National House, 6- 
T ulloch Road, 

Bombay-1. 


U 

74632 

22-3-74 

U 

U74633 

22-3-74 


U 

74634 

22-3-74 


U 

74635 
22-3-74 

U 

74636 
22-3-74 


P.E. 


P.E 


P.E 


P.E. 


P.E 


P.E 


P.E 


P.E 


P.E, 


P.E. 



2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


— — ~ - 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

13/71 276 

“Perception Of Light 
Energy” (Silent) (8 
mm.) (U.K.). 

16-0(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74637 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71275 

“Mutual Induction" 
(Silent) (8 mm) (U.K.). 

16-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74638 

P.E. 





7.2-3-74 

B/71274 

“The Transformer” 
(Silent) (8 mm.) 

(U. K.). 

16-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74639 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71273 

“The Kidney” (Silent) 
(Colour) (8 mm,) 

(U. K.) 

16-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74640 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71272 

“Human Skin” (Si- 
lent) (8 mm). (U.K.), 

16-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74641 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71271 

“Elect o Magnetic 

Induction” (Silent) 

(8 mm.) (U.K.). 

16-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74642 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71443 

“Warmth of Your 
Hands" (Malaya- 

1am (16 mm.) (USSR). 

856 -00(8) 

USSR Coasulate 
General, 42-Nepoansca 
Rd., Bombay-6. 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio. 

U 

74643 




22-3-74 


B/71551 

"The Happy Family” 
(Hindi) (Colour) ( 35 
mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

F. B. Productions, 

Film Centre, 68 Tai- 
deo Road, Bombay- 
34. 

F. B. Productions, 

Film Centre, 68- 
Tardeo Road, Bom- 
bay-34. 

U 

74644 




22-3-74 


B/71550 

“The trip” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74645 






22-3-75 


B/71549 

“The Recovery” (Hin- 
di) (Colour) (35 mm.) 

“Little Champ" (Hin- 
di) (Colour) (35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74646 


B/71548 

30 -48(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

22-3-74 

U 

74647 






22-3-74 


B/71435 

“The Oberoi Shop- 
ping Centre 11 (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (35 mm.) 

30-48(1) ShriS. Sukhdev, Unit- 

Shri S. Sukhdev, 

U 

74648 




Rock House Worli 
Hill, Bombay-18. 

Bombay-1 8. 

22-3-74 


B/71481 

“Management By Ob- 
jectives” (English) 

(Colour). 

742 -19(3) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

74649 

P.E. 





22-3-74 

B/71602 

"Trailer of Man Jeete 

Jag Jeete” (Punjabi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

82-30(1) 

S. Mohinder, Tahiti 
Cottage, 7-Bung- 

low, Bombay-61 . 

S. Mohinder, Tahiti 
Cottage, 7-Bung- 

low, Bombay-61. 

U 

74650 




22-3-74 



u 

B/70214 “Heera” (Hindi) (Co- 3924 -26(16) Sultan Ahmed, 707, Sultan Ahmed, 707, 74651 With triangle murk. 

lour) (35 mm). Prasad Chambers, Prasad Chambers,— — 

Tata Rd., Bombay-4. Tata Road, Bombay-4. 22-3-74 


Endorsement : 

Original length : 4004-20 m. 

This certificate is issued in lieu of “A” Certificate No. 3199 dated 23-10-1973 granted by the Central Board of Film 
Censors in accordince with the orders No. 7/26/73 FC dated 2nd March, 1974 passed by Government of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952). 

Cut No. Reel No. 

t, T : Delete the reference to the love of “Radha-Krishna” in comparison with the love of T aila Majmt and 

others, 

(Deleter! sound only) (Replaced) with approved sound). 



Part III—Sec. 4)THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 

1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 

2187 


1 2 3 4 5 

6 

7 


B/71652 


B/71082 


2, I Reduce to one or two the head-to-head hitting of Heera and the bald man. 1 '22 m. 

(Length retained : 1 • 22 m.). 

3, III ; Reduce suitably the view of Balwant caressig the bare leg of Gulabi and moving his fingers upward, 

(Shots blown up). 

(ii) Delete the dialogue of Balwant with Gulabi comparing her (a vamp) with a sacred idol worthy of 
worshipping if kept in the temple. 

(Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound), 

4, VI : Reduce the whipping of old man by Balwant— 2 -28 m. (Length retained : 4 '27 m). 

J. VI ; Reduce suitably the head-to-head hitting between Heera and Balwant,— 4 -70 m. (Length retained 
36-29 m). 

6. VIII : Reduce the whipping of pregnant Laheria by her fathor. — 2-13 m. (Longth retained : 6 -40 m) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0*15 m.). 

7. X ; Reduce the fight between Balwant’s men and Heera, particularly head-to-head hitting and hitting on 

the stomach.— 12 -42 m. 

(Length retained : 42 -46 m,). 

8. XI : Fromtue ‘mujra’ item, reduce the quick bust jerking movement of the dancer when she moves towards 

Balwant, and delete the suggestion of kiss at the end. — 1 -82 m. 

(Length retained : 3 -35 m.) (Replaced with approved shots : 1 -63 m.). 

9. Xm : (1) Roduce the fight between Jangoo and Heera particularly where weapons arc used.— 1 

(Length retained : 12-20 m). 

(2) Roduce the prominent view of blood during the fight between Balwant and Heera and Others, 
keeping the Important dialogue portion.— 8 -40 m, 

(Length retained : 0 -37 m.). 

10. XIV : Reduce coasiderably the molestation scene of a village girl by Balwant’s man, retaining only the 

important dialoguo portion towards, the end. — 4 -76 m. (Length retained : 3 -72m.). 

11. XV : (a) Delete the view of dacoit Balwant looking with pride on the blood stained knife in his hand after 

scratching Asha’s arm. — 1 -00 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : I -00 m.). 

(b) Reduce in general the fight with weapons particularly prominent view of blood and head-to-head 
fight between Heera and the bald man.— 15 -19 m. (Length retained 35 -98 m.). 

12. XVI : (a) Reduce the shot of Heera hitting Balwant with the gun-butt and reduce the number of shots fired 
by tho polico on Balwant. — 5-31 m. 

(Length retainod : 9 -75 tn. (Replaced) with approved shots : 0 -39 m.). 

(b) Delete the view of Heera kicking on the dead body of Balwant. — 0 -61 m. 


The following additional cuts have been ordered by Government persuant to thier orders referred to above. 


1. Ill : 


2 . 


3. VI 


Reduce one suggestive scene which is also not even essential to the plot-scene between Balwant and 
Gulabi where Balwant Is talking and caressing the thighs. — 14 -63 m. 

(Length retained : 16-46 m.) 


(i) Some of the violencebe toned down. 

(ii) Reduce violence in the scene relating to beating of Laheria by her 
father (Longth retained : 9 -14 m.). 

(iil) Reduce violence in the scene depicting the death of the father 
(Length retained : 23 -17 m). 


6-81 m. 


Spoken “Purane Recti Riwaj ko Bharat Sarkar Bbi Nahi Badal Sakti from this sentence word 
“Bharat Sarkar” may be changed. (Replaced with approved words). 

The validity of “U" certificate will expire with the date of expiry of the superceded “A” certificate 
No. 3199 of 23-10-1973, viz : 22nd of October, 1973. 


Length of deletions : 83-11 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 3 -17 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3924 -26 m. in 16 Reels. 


“Trailer of Chor Ma- 
chaye Shor” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (36 mm.). 


91-50(1) N. N. Sippy Produc- N. N. Sippy, H.U.F. 
tions, 4-B Naaz Buil- 
ding, Lamington Rd. 

Bombay-4. 


U 

74652 


23-3-74 


A 

“?°^ nkhtn " (HiQ ' 3728 -60(14) Gulshan Bahl, N. C. Gulshan Bahl, Bom- 3221 With triangle mark 

di) (Colour) (35 mm). Films, 191, Kurla bay-69. — — 

Road Andheri (E) 19-3-74 

Bombay- 69. 

Endorsement — 

Original length : 3780-10 m. 

Cut No, Reel No. 


In the picturisation of the song “Ladki unnis se sattarki “delete suggestive close ups of 

breasts and midriff, as also shots of Ajay trying to remove bresiers of a girl and their other indecorous 
shots. — 2 -94 m. (Replaced with approved shots : 2 -94 m.). 


7 — 369GI/75 


2188 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec, 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


2. Ill : Reduce the modus operandi of looting of railway wagons by retaining only a few suggestive shots 

for continuity. — 5 -68 in. 

Length retained : 2 09 in.). 

3. IV : Reduce Vijay hitting the accomplice of criminals at the police station, by keeping only a suggestion. — - 

2 -78 m. (Deleted completely). 

4. V ; Delete the underlined words from the following dialogues : 

Pandit : “Tim ek goli khayega, tumhare maan Ko bhi bachha ho jayega” Pandit : Qoli andar baccha 
bahar” Sahukar : Hathodi ? 

Pandit : Are bhai, thokanckelive” (and repetition) Sahukar : Thokanekaliye 7 (Replaced with 

approved words) . 

5. VIII : In the soquonce of police raid on Ajay’s den, delete all the gruesome shots including shots of police- 

men being killed and another police officer being manhandled — 9 '92 m. 

6. XII : In the sequence of fighting in tho car, reduce considerably shots of strangulation of Ajay and Ajay 

pressing the neck of a gangster and the nock of Ajay being pressed with window glass and reduce 
gruesome shots. .- 14.02 (Length retained : 7 -92 m). 

7. XV : Reduce drastically the fight between Ajay and Vijay in tho temple, deleting shots of strangulation 

shots of using temple equipments such as bells and ‘deep’ for hitting one another and dashing of the 
head on prayer stone. 19-10 m. 

(Length retained ; 10 -36 m ). 

Length of deletions 54 -44 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 2 -94 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3728 -60 m. 

Endorsement under rule 34 : 

B/71469 

Film : "Twice As Good” (English) 

U-Ccrt. No. 74312 of 4-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Tclugu version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on I8lh March, 1974. 

B/68758 

Film : "For Tho High Seas" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 72239of 28 -3 -1973, 

Deleted various shots : 42 00 m. Actual length of the flint after the aforesaid deletions will be : 185 00 m. This 
certificate was endorsed on 18th March, 1974. 

B/70999 

Film : “Grahan" (Hindi) (35 nun). 

U-Cert. No. 74153 of 29-12-1973. 

Reel No. Red No. Reel No. 

I. : Deleted various shots 9 14 m. IV ; Deleted various shots :53 -95 m. VIII : Deleted various shots : 7-01 m. 

II : Deleted various shots 100 -28 m V : Deleted various shots 63 -46 JX : Deleted various shots : 12-80 m. 

III : Deleted various shots 57-99 m. VIT : Deleted various shots : 11-58 m. XII : Deleted various shots : 39-32 m. 

Length of deletions : 355 -45 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2974 -55 m. 

Reel No. 10, 11 and 12 aro printed in monochrome. 

The words superimposed on the last shot “the beginning of Acceptance" are changed to "THE END” 

Reel No. I : Script and Direction credited to Shri M. Prabhat . 

This certificate was endorsed on 19th March 1974. 

B/71606-10 

Film : "Pure And Gentle" (English) 

U-Cert. No, 74443 of 4-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Telugu, Malayalam Kannada, Bengali and Hindi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 20th March, 1974. 

B/71622 -7 

Film : “Pura Pan! Bharpur Munafa (Marathi) 

U-Cert. No. 74360 of 14-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Telugu, Bengali, Kannad and Gujarati versions of tho film in Colour, The 
length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 20th March, 1974. 

B/71114 

Film : “Amir Khusro" (English) 

U-Ccrt. No. 74252 of 23-1-1974. 

Correction : 

The length of tho film on the face of the certificate may bo read as 313 -00 m. instead of 329 -00 m, 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th March, 1974, 

Film ; “Monoy That Matters” (English) 

U-Cort, 73717 of 31-10-1973. 

Correction ; 

Tire length of the film on the face of the certificate may b c read as 308 . 00m. instead of 305 . 00m , 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th March, 1974. 



Part lit — Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2l89 


— - ■ 

' 

! 

i 

i 

1 

1 

1 

— 



i 

1 

1 

1 2 

3 

4 


5 


6 

7 


B/71020 

Film : “Homage To The Sons of India” 

U-Cert. No. 74159 of 31-12-1973. 

Corrections : 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 202 meters instead of 243 '84 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 31st March, 1974. 

B/70987 

Film : “The Fire" (No dialogue of Commentary) 

U-Cert. No. 74149 of 29-12-1973. 

Commentary is added. Film is in Hindi language now. Length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate 
was endorsed on 21st March, 1974. 

B/71295 

Fdm : “Saath Kuchh Na Jnyega" (Hindi) 

U-Ccrt. No. 71737 of 20-1-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for English version of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged. This 
certificate was endorsed on 23rd March, 1974. 

B/69752 

Film : “Sahkar Ne Sathware" (Gujarati) 

U-Cert. No. 72974 of 3-8-1973. 

Deleted various shots : 8 00 m. Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 296 '00 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 23rd March, 1974. 


C/7714 

C/7715 

C/7716 

C/7717 

C/7719 

C/7981 

C/7982 

C/7983 

C/7988 

/ 

C/7989 


Chez M. Marc chag- 
gal (French) (Colo- 
ur) 16mm-France. 


La Direction D’ Ac- 
tcurs Par Jean Reno- 
ir (French) (Colour) 
16mm-France. 


La Diamant (No dia- 
logue, Song or Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 16- 
mm-Franco. 


Unc Bombc Par Hasa- 
rd (No dialogue song 
or Commentary (Co- 
lour) 16 mm-Francc 


Les Temps Retrouves 
(English (Colour) 
16mm-Francc, 


Thakavat-ki-Rukavat 
(Part No. 1 Ghora- 
gadi Bedi) (Hindi) 
(Colour) 35 mm- 
India, 


Thakavat -kl- Ruka- 
vat (Part No. 11 
Sonali Bagh Btdi 
(Assamese) (Colour) 


Thakavat ki- Ruka- 
vat (Part No. III- 
Sonari 545 flidi) 
(Hindi) (Colour) 


Batik (English) 35 mm 
India, 


New Earth (English) 
(Partly Colour) 35- 
mm-lndia. 


U 

73386 

P.E. 

19-3-74 

U 

73387 


19-3-74 


U 

100 -00(1) Do Films Paul Grimault 73388 


19-3-74 


U 

90 00(1) Do Do 73389 


19-3-74 


U 

570 00(1) Do Films CaravclleS.A. 73390 

- P.E. 

19-3-74 

U 

73 T5(l) Calcutta Filmlet Ad- Aloke Nath Bagchi .73391 

vertising 109, Bidhan 

Sarani, Calcutta-4 23-3-74 


WEEK ENDING 23RD MARCH, 1974 
CALCUTTA 

210 00(1) Cultural connscllor- Agonce Francise D’ 
Franch Embassy, Images 
New Delhi 

230 -00 '(1) Do Films Dela Pleiade 


U 

79 '25(1) Do Do 73392 


23-3-74 


U 

76-20(1) Do Do 73393 


23-3-74 

U 

30 '48 (1) Baausrec Films 102, Smt. Nupur Mitra 73394 

S, P. Mukherjecc — — - 

Road, Cal-26 23-3-74 

U 

624 - 84(2) GRA Film ‘72 47, Irrigation & Water- 73395 

Gacha Road, Cal- ways Dept. Govt. — P.E, 

19 of West Bengal, 23-3-74 

Writers Buildings, 

Calcutta- 1 



2190 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec. 4 






" 



- 

— 

1 

2 

3 


4 

5 

6 

7 



M/8477 


M/8479 

M/8485 

M/8486 


MADRAS 


Nflrakasura Vadlio 3947 -16(15) Kiran Pictures, flan- Kiran Pictures, Ban- 
(Kannada) 35 mm. galore. galore. 

B&W. India. 


Yeradukanasu (Kan- 4218-73(17) 


nad ) 
India. 

(Colour) 35 


T railcr 

of ‘Thiruttu 

94-50(1) 

Valli 

(Tamil) 35 

mm. B&W. India, 


Pancha 

Thanthram 

3980-10(15) 


(Malayalam) 35 mm. 
B&W. India. 


Anupam Movies, Ban- Anupam Movies, 
galore. Bangalore. 


Navadoya Art Mo- Navodaya Art Mo- 
vies, Madras vies, Madras 


Srec Murugalaya, Shri E.K. Thiyagara- 
Madras, jan, Madras 


U 

67475 

18-3-74 

U 

67476 

18-3-74 

U 

67477 

18-3-74 

U 

67478 

18-3-74 


With cuts. 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67478-U dt. 18-3-74 issued to the film ‘Pancha Thanthram ‘(Malayalam) 35mm B&W 


Length applied 3993 -20 Metres. 

Cuts Mts. 

1. Reel 2 — Delete close-range shot of the police official’s dead body on motor 

cycle with blood seen dripping. 0 -91 

2. Reel 3 — Delete the cabaret dancer’s mentioning of Bombay. (Sound only). - — - — 

3. Reclll — Reduce Julie being given electric shocks to only once. 2-14 

4. Wee/ 15 — Reduce considerably the fighting scene mthe den. 10-05 

Total: 13-10 


Actual length of the film is 3980-10 Metres in 15 Reels. 


M/8478 Rahasya Raatri (Mala- 3960 -24(15) Sri Sai Productions, Shri R.S. Srinivasa, 67479 

yalam) 35 mm. B&W Madras. Madras. — vvith cuts 

India. 21-3-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67479-U, dated 21st March 1974 issued to the 
film Rahasya Raatri (Malayalam). 

Length applied 4009.00 Metres. 

Cuts Mts. 

1. Reel- 3 — Bahadur in girl’s costume, without upper cloth to be reduced, deleting 

all indecent actions of Bahadur (Retained 60 -96). 48 -76 

2. Reel-9 — Delete sound of Kiss. (Sound only) — — - 

3. Wt-eZ-ll — Delete reference to toddy shop in the song, sung by Basi as a Sadhu 

(Sound only replaced words approved,) — 


Total : 48 -76 


Actual length of the film will be 3960 -24 Metres in 15 Reels, 


M/8481 

Kanmani Raja (Tamil) 
35mm B&W. India 

3994 -09(15) 

Muthuvel 

Madras 

Movies, 

Muthuvel 

Madras 

Movies, 

67480 






21-3-74 

U 


M/8491 

Bhaktha Prahlada’ 

4547 -00(19) 

Rajoswar 

Films, Rajeswari 

Films, 

67481 


(Kannada) (Colour) 


Madras 


Madras 







21-3-74 


35mm. India 



M/8392 

Maadi Madidavaru 

3360 -40(12) 

Malcnad 

Theatres, 

Malcnad 

Theatres, 

U 

67482 


(Kannada) 35 mm. 


Sagar, Karnataka. 

Sagar, 

Karnataka, — 


With-cuts. 


B.&W. India. 22-3-74 

Endorsement on cert No. 67482-U dt, 22nd March 1974 issued to film Madi Madidavaru (Kannada) 
Length applied 3390 -40 Mts. 


Cuts. Mts. 

1. Reel 7— Reduce to a flash, whipping of the old man by a Zamidar, (Retained 

1 -52). _ 3 -40 

2. Reel- 11— Delete names of all border towns Nipani, Hubli etc. (Sound only) 


Total : 3 -04 


Actual length will be 3357 -34 Mts. in 12 Reels, 



2191 


part ni— Sec. 4]THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


l 


i 


3 4 


5 6 7 


M/8496 Trailer of cthi-Lak- 
shmi (Tamil) 35mm 
B&W. India 


91 T3(l) M. S, Pictures, Mad- M.S. Pictures, 
ras. ras. 


U 

Mad- 67483 


22-3-74 


WEEK ENDING 30TH MARCH, 1974. 


BOMBAY 


B/71631 

"The New Gift of Co- 
mmunication" (En- 
glish) (35mm) 

319-00(1) 

Films Division , Govt 
of India, 24- Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay 26 

B/71597 

"Putting The House 

In Order” (English) 
(35mm.) 

287-00(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

B/71598 

“Save A Life” (Eng- 
lish) (35mm) 

323 -00(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

B/71635 

“When Dream Comes 
True” alias seeing is 
Believing (English) 

35 m.m. 

422 -00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71629 

“Future Canvas” 

(English) (35mm.) 

420 -00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71451 

"Moscow Review No. 
2” (Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm) (USSR) 

279 -00(1) 

USSSR Consulate 

General, 42 Nepean- 
sea Road, Bombay 
-6 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio 

B/71450 

“Moscow Review No. 

4” (Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (USSR) 

279 -00(1) 

USSR Consulate Gene- 
ral, 42-Ncpcansea 

Road, Bombay -6, 

Do. 

B/71557- 

59 

“Funny Fellow From 
Fifth” B (Russion- 
commentary (16mm.) 
(USSR.) 

986 -00(9) 

Do. 

Maxim Gorky Film 
Studio. 

B/71344 

“Do Challane” 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

Endorsement : 

3814-63(16) 

Apollo International, Joginder. 

3- Mamta, 183, 

Watcrflold Rd,, Bandra, 

Bombay-50. 


Original Length : 3911 -80 m. 


Cut Reel 
No. No. 


HJ 

74653 

— — P.E. 

25-3-74 

U 

74654 

Not=P.E. 

25-3-74 

U 

74655 

— — P.E, 

25-3-74 

U 

74656 

P.E. 

25-3-74 

U 

74657 

— - - P.E. 
25-3-74 

U 

74658 


25-3-74 

U 

74659 


25-3-74 

U 

74660 (Valid for Cannada, 

Marathi & Bengali 

25-3-74 Versions.) 

U 

74661 With triangle mark. 


25-3-74 


1 II : Reduce cosldorably tho sequence of revelry in Seth Dhaniram’s house, deleting particularly the 
following shots : 

(i) Pouring of wine on a girl’s leg and a man licking it-3 -05,. (ii) a girl caressing the legs of a man 
in dhoti-0 -58m. 

(iii) A man passing his legs through the parted legs of a girl-0 91 m, (iv) Reduce the shots of cru- 
shed bread and bread being crushed under the feet of the dancing couples-1 -44 m. (Length 
retained : 1 -22 m.) 

(v) Reduce the shot showing a girl with several men within indecent gestures.-l -56m. (Deleted 
completely). 

2 V : In tho duel song sequence : (i) delete the shot (s) in which Aruna rubs her bosom on Raka when 

he is lying on the ground — 1 -59 m. (Replaced : 1 59 m.) 

(ii) delete the shots of suggestion of kiss between Rana and Asha— 0 -39m. 

3. VI : Reduce the fight in the Restaurant between Raka and Rana and the goondas deleting gruesome 

shots.— 7 -92 m. (Length retained : 16 -46 in.) 

4. VIII : Reduce the light in the Ganja smoker’s den deleting gruesome shots,— 10 -06 m. (Longth retained : 

18 -90 m.) 

5. X : Doleto tho underlined remark of Pandit's to one another : "Kamre mein band ho, atir shaadi ho 

jai chabi kho jai. ek hi baat hai na 2 -00 m. ~ 

6. XI ; Reduce the fight deleting gruesome shots.— 1 -22 m. (Length retained : 2 -44 m.) 

7. X1H : Reduce the considerably the fight between Raka and Rana deleting gruesome shots.— 15 -24 m. 

(Length retained ; 24 38 nr.) 



2192 

1 


B/71634 

B/71666 

B/71621 

B/71667 

B/71612 

13/71644 

B/71639 

B/71601 

B/71668 

B/71661 

B/73373 

B/71669 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8. XV : (i) Reduce the number and duration of inter cuts showing molestation of and attempt at Farida 

& XVI by Abdul during the fight taking out shots where Abdul in directly above Farida lying on her 

back. — 20-59 m. (Length retained : 16-76 m.) 

(ii) Reduce the fight between Dhanlram’s hirelings on the one hand and Raka and Rana on the other 
deleting gruesome shots. —29 -09 m. (length retained : 90 -22 m.) 

(iii) Also delete the following underlined dialogue of Abdul adressed to Raka with reference to 
his a intention to rape Farida. 

“Aaj main tere saamne teri bahen ki abroo se kheloonga” 3 12 m. 

Length of deletions : 98 -76 m. 

Length of replacement : 1 -59 m. 

Actual length of the film after tho aforesaid alterations will be : 3814 -63 m. in 16 Reels. 


"Phillips” (Hindi) 
(35mm.) 


15-24(1) Kalp, B-1-B2 Samruddhi Kalp, B-1-B2 Samruddhi 
Housing Society, Bha- Houding Society, Bha-’ 
vani Shankar Road, vani Shankar, Road, 

Cross Lane, Dadar, Cross Lane, Dadar, 

Bombay-28. Bombay-28. 


‘Flowers All Day” 23-87(1) 
(English( (Colour) 

. (35mm.) 

“Lakhon Ki PaSand” 

Mainn (Hindi) 30 -48 
(Colour) (35 mm.) (1) 


F. B. Productions, Film 
Centre, 68 , Tardeo 
Road, Bombay-34. 

Durga Khote Produ- 
tions, India House, 
First floor, Fort, 
Street, Bombay-1. 


F. B. Productions, 
Bombay-34. 

Durga Khote Produ- 
toins, India House, 
First floor, Fort 
Street, Bombay-1. 


"Vah Vijay” (Hindi) 
(35mm.) 


29-86(1) Film Media, 47-Lax- Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur, 
mi Insurance Bldg., Film Media, Bom- 
Sir P. M. Rd. Bom- bay-1 . 

bay-1. 


“Rang Mo Aayel” 30-48(1) -do.- -do.- 

(Hindi) (Colour) (35mm.) 


“A New Name In Air 83-82(1) 
Travel” (English) 

(colour) (35mm.) (U.K.) 


British Airways, Yul- BOAC. 
can Insurance Bldg., 

Churchgatc, Bom- 
bay-40020. 


“A Tip For A Trip” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm). 


544-07(2) Tho Director General The Director General 
of Information & Pub- of Information & 
lie Relation, Govt, of Public Relation, Govt. 
Maharashtra. of Maharashtra. 


U 

74662 

25-3-74 

U 

74663 

25-3-74 

U 

74664 

25-3-74 

U 

74665 

25-3-74 

U 

74666 

25-3-74 

U 

74667 
25-3-74 

U 

75668 

25-3-74 


Not P. E. 


“Navjawanon Ka 
Naach" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm,). 


"Ek Path Do Kaaj” 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm.). 

"Ujlay Phool” (Grow- 
ing of Improved 
Cotton Seed” 

(Hindi) (35 mm.). 

"Bazar Band Karo" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.). 


U 

15-29(1) Sohnib Boga , M/s Sohrab Boga, M/s. 74669 

Nishan Motion Pic- Nishan Motion Pic- — ■ — — 

tures, Vasant Vihar, t ures, Vasant Vihar, 25-3-74 

8-Carmaichel Road, 8-Carmalchcl Road, 

Bombay-400026. Bombay-400026. 

U 

68 -58(1) Omprakash Mishra, Omprakash Mishra, 74670 

3368, Govind Raiji 3368, Govlnd Raiji — — — P.E. 

Ka Rasta, Jaipur-1, Ka Rasta, Jaipur-1. 25-3-74 

U 

551-98(2) Kanwar Shorey, 27, Shorey Documenatary 74671 

M. J. Building, Ch. Films, — ■ - P. E. 

Chowk, Delhi-6. 25-3-74 


U 

3668 -26(15) B.R. I. Arts Universal, B. R. lshara, Trilok 74672 

Trilok; Niwas, B. Niwas B-Block, - — — — ■ — With triangle Mark. 

Block, Ambcdkar Ambedkar Road 25-3-74 

Road, Palli, Bandra, Pali, Bandra, 

Bombay-50. Bombay-50. 


Endorsement 

Original Length . — 3713 -07 m. 

Delete the flash-back scene of love making between Komal and Desai . . . 44 -81m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 3668 -26 m. In 15 reels. 

U 

"Mahitichitra No. 289-56(1) Director of Infor- Director, of I Infor- 74673 

181" (Gujarati) (35 mation, Govt, of mation, Govt, of - - 

mm i ' Gujarat. Gujarat, Sachivalaya, 27-3-74 

Ahmedabad-15. 



Part III— Sec. 4]THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2193 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 


7 


B/71700 


B/71699 


B/71643 


“Indian News Roviow 
No. 1328” (35 m.m.). 


“Indian Nows Review 
No. _ 1328” (Eastern 
Edition) (35 mm.). 


“Allngan” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.). 


Endorsement , — 


212 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 


299 '00(1) Do. 


4035-86(16) Jasmine Films, 305, 
Yusuf Mohoraliy Road, 
Bombay-3, India. 


U 

Films Division, 24- 74674 

Peddar Road, Bom- — — - 

bay-26. 27-3-74 


U 

Do. 74675 


27-3-74 

U 

P. P. Javeri, Jasmine 74676 
Films, Bombay-3. — - — — — — 

21 -3-1 A 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Tclugu, Kannada, 
Malay alam, Pun- 
jabi, Kashmiri, 
Urdu & Sind hi 
vorsions) 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali, 
Assamese, & Onya, 
versions,). 


With triangle mark. 


Original Length. — 4048 -66 m. 

Cut Reel 


No. No. 


1. XII. In the rape scene, deloto the shot of caressing of Recta’s ncack with lips. . 

2. XVI : Delete the indecent dialogue and visuals of Recta’s step father when he 
says: “Usko kali se phool kisne banaya, maine, vah kya khushbu nftyco 
badanso ............ 

3. XVI : Reduce the fight between Ashvini and Recta’s step father, in particular 

deleting Ashvini hanging the head against tho earth as also hard hitting shots . 
( Deleted completely). 

’ Length of deletions. — 12 -80 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 4035 -86 m. in 16 reels. 


Metres 
2 -15 m 

6 -20 m. 
4 -45 m. 


B/71615 

"Trailer of Dharmendra 
Plays Pocketmar" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

95-10(1) 

Cine Mandlr, 313 Air 
Conditioned Market 
Tardoo, Bombay-34. 

Jogindcr Singh Luthra 
& Ramesh Lakhan- - 
pal. 

U 

74677 




27-3-74 


B/71679 

“Beat the Heat” (En- 
glish) (Colour) (35mm 

30 -48(1) 

K. D. Master, 212- 
Schcherazadem Colaba 
Bombay-5. 

Globe Productions. 

U 

74678 





27-3-74 


B/71702 

“A Two-Way Process” 
(English) (35mm.) 

262 00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Pcddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

U 

74679 

P.E. 



28-3-74 


B/71661 

"Lila Aur Arvind" 
(Hindi) (35mm.) 

301 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74680 

P.E. 





28-3-74 


B/71721 

“Violence What Price 
Who Pays 7 No. 1” 
(No. Commentary, 
Music & effects only 
(35mm.) 

38-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

76481 

P.E. 





28-3-74 


B/71701 

“Lakshadweep” (Eng- 
lish) (Col.) (35mm.) 

“Skylab-Outpost Tn 
Space” (English) 

(Colour( USA.) 

569 00(2) 

Do. 

Do, 

U 

74682 

P.E. 

B/71617 

181 -97(1) 

United States Infor- 
mation Service 4-Ncw 
Marine Lines, 

Bombay-20. 

U. S. Information 

A eenev. 

29-3-74 

U 

74683 

P.E. 




29-3-74 


B/71486 

“Poor Little Lacchi" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 

283 -00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Pcddar 
Road, Bombay- 26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar - 

U 

74684 

P.E. 



Road, Bombay-26. 

29-3-74 


B/71628 

“Highroad of Adven- 
ture” (English) 

280-00(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

74685 

P.E. 


(35mm.) 


29-3-74 



2194 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

B/71 654 

"Saga Of Shipping” 
(English) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

523 -00(2) 

Film Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Film Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar - 
Road, Bombay-26 

U 

74686 

29-3-74 

P.E, 

B/71672 

“Dr. Gustav Husak 
Visits India” (Eng- 
lish) (35mm.) 

533 -00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74687 






29-3-74 


B/71 670 

“Kal Aaj Aur Kal" 
(Gujarati) (35mm.) 

236 -22(1) 

Jupiter Films, 9/6 Air 
Conditioned Market 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 

Jaswant Singh Gupta 
and R. P. Mehta, 
Bombay-34. 

U 

74688 

P.E. 



29-3-74 


B/71 663 

“Trailer of Chori 
Chori” (Hindi) (Col- 

92 -05(1) 

K. P. K. Movies, 

224-Famous Cine 

Kewai P. Kashyap, 
224-Famous Cine 

U 

74689 



our) (35mm.) 


B/71714 “Nothing Like Leather” 
(English) (35mm.) 


B/71603 “Simco Hair Fixer” 

(Punjabi partly in 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 

B/71645 “The Prize” (English) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 


B/71671 “Dispute” (English) 
(16mm.) (U.K.) 


B/71581-88 “Around The Soviet 
Union No. 95.” 
(16mm.) (USSR) 


B/71 560-63 “Soviet Army No. 18“ 
(16mm.) (USSR) 


B/71488-91 "Soviet Army No. 19" 
(16mm.) (USSR) 


B/71492-95 "Choosing Vocation” 
(16mm.) (USSR) 


B/71462 "The Yellow Trail” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16mm. )(W. 
Gormany) 

B/71614 “Rana Fratap" (Hindi 

(16mm.) 


Building Mahalaxmi, Building, Mahalaxmi 
Bombay-11. Bombay-11. 


30-48(1) 


K. & V. Industries 
Commission Ella 
Road, Bombay-56. 


Mohan Kau, C/o 
Rauki Effects Service 
51:52 The Nation 
Shorgce P. Ltd. 
Mogd Lane, Sita- 
ladcvi Temple Road, 
Bombay-16. 


30-48(1) H.H. Ja^wani, Advcr- H. H. Jagwani, Adver- 
tising Films, Jyoti tising Films Jyoti - 
Studios, Keddedy Studios, Keddedy 
Bridge, Bombay-7. Bridge, Bombay-7. 

30 -48(1) Mr. Zafar Hai, Cinerad Mr. Zafar Hai, Cinerad 
Communications, Ks- Communications, Ks- 
homa Bhavan, 37, homa Bhavan, 34- 
Ncw Marine Lines, New Marine Lines, 
Bombay-20. Bombay-20. 


199 -95(1) 


111 00 ( 1 ) 


Hindustan Aeronau- 
tics Ltd., New Ka- 
mani Chambers, Ni- 
col Road, Ballard 
Estate, Bombay-1. 


British Productivity 
Council. 


29-3-74 

U 

74690 

29-3-74 


U 

74691 
29-3-74 

U 

74692 
29-3-74 


U 

74693 

29-3-74 


(Valid lor Hindi, 
Bengali, Tamil, 
Telugu & Kannada 
versions.) 


P.E. 


USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

General, Cultural Film Studio. 

Section, Bombay-6. 


U 

74694 

29-3-74 


237 -00(2) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74695 


29-3-74 


239 -00(2) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 
General, Bombay-6. Film Studio. 


222 - 00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74696 

29-3-74 


U 

74697 

29-3-74 

U 


400-00(1) Hoechst Pharmaccu- Farbwerke Hocchst AG 74698 

deal P. B. No. 11123, 

Bombay-20. 29-3-74 


(Valid for Tpmil, 
Hindi, Marathi 
Telugu, Gujarati, 
Punjabi, Kannada, 
& Malayalam 
versions.) 

(Valid for Gujarati, 
Telugu, Malayalam 
& Kannada 

versions.) 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali 
& _ Malayalam 
versions.) 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Gujarati, 
Bengali, Telugu, 
Versions.) 


P.E, 


279-19(3) National Educational 
& Information Films 
Ltd., National House 
Bombay-1 . 


U 

National Educational 74699 

& Information Films — — 

Ltd., National House 29-3-74 
Bombay-1 . 


P.E. 



TArt 

B/71633 

B/71673 

B/71620 

B/71619 

B/71618 

B/71722 

B/71763 

B/71720 

B/71692 


111 -Str; 4 J 1 JIF GAZn 1 1 . OI INDIA nnCLMHI'R 13, 1975 (AGRA II AY AN A 2?-, 1897) 2l*>5 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


"Kill Ki Baat” (Hindi) 
(35mm.) 


“Fatal Ganga" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 


‘Science Report 148- 
B” (English) (16mm) 
(USA). 


National Educational National Ebuealional U 

333.44(1) & Information films ' & Information films 74700 

Ltd., National HouiC Ltd., National House ■ 

Bombay- 1 Bombay- 1 29-3-74 

U 

222-50(1) UNICEF, llJorbagh UNICEF, 11 Jorbagh, 74701 

New Delhi. New Delhi. • — . — - — 

29-3-74 

U 

149-26(1) United States Informa- Robert Foslci . 74702 

tion Service Bombay. - — — — 

29-3-74 


“Science Report 148- 151-49(1) Do. 

A" (English) (16mm, 

(USA). 


U 

Do. 74703 


29-3-74 


‘Erts-Earth Resour- 
ces Technology Sa- 
tellite" (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 
(USA.) 


"New Glimpses of 
Delhi" (Hindi) (Col- 
lour) (35mm.) 


“The Treacherous 
Man” (English) 
(Colour) (35mnt.) 


“The Victory Story” 
(English) (35mm.) 


303 -28(1) 

Do. 

Audio Productions. 

U 

74704 

451 -10(2) 

P. T. Jani, Shrikrishna 

P.T. Jani. Bombay-4. 

29-3-74 

U 

74705 

346 -00(2) 

Boarding House, 

Room No. 12-1217, 

Charni Road, Bombay.-4 

Films Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 

29-3-74 

U 

74706 


of India, 24-Pcddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

of India, 24-Peddar - 
Road, Bombay-26, 

29-3-74 

3075-00(11) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

74707 


29-3-74 


“Trailer of My Friend’’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 


83-82(1) Poonam Pictures Pvt. 

Ltd Time Star House 
29th Rd., Pali Naka, 
Bandra, Bombay-50. 


U 

Poonambhai Shah & 74709 

Narayanbhai Patel. 

Time Slar House, 30-3-74 

29th Rd. Pali Naka, 

Bandra, Bombay-50. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


Not P.F. 


P.F.. 


P.E. 


Endorsement Under Ride 34. 

B/70646 

Film : “Manoranjan” (Hindi) (Colour) 

A-Ccrt. No. 321) of 11-1-1974. 

Reel XVI : Deleted various shots : 42 -67 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be :4536 -65 m. 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th March, 1974. 

Endorsement 


B/71685-91 

Film : “The Crucial Years” (English) 

U-Cert, No. 74298 of 1-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Marathi. Gujarati, Bengali, Kannada. Telttgu, Tamil and Hindi versions of the film 
in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th March, 1975. 


B/63548 

Film : “Sapna” (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 63893 of 21-8-1971. 

Deleted various shots : 10 -62m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 264 -00 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th March, 1974, 

B/69566-68 

Flint : “Jumbo Ala Rc” (Marathi) 

U-Cert, No. 72912 of 21-7-1973. 

This certificate is, also valid for English version of the film in colour, The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 29th March, 1974. 


8— 36901/75 



THE GAZETTE OT INDI A, DECEMBER 13, ] ‘>75 (AGRAI IAYANA 22, 1S97) [Fart III— SEC. 4 


C/7980 


WEEK ENDING 30TM MARCH, 1974. 

CALCUTTA 

U 

Ustad-Ka-U start (Hi- 91-44(1) Screen & Publicities Screen & Publicities. 73396 With 

ndi) (Colour) (35mm.) 6-A, Saklat Place, 

(India.) Cal- 13. 26-3-74 

Endorsement 

Original Length— 91 -44 metres 

Reduce strangulation of the men to the barest minimum — 1 -52. 

(Length retained 2 -74 metres) 

Strangulation scene has been replaced with approved shots of snmo length-No change in length. 
Sd/- for Chairman, 

Central Board of Film Censors, 25-3-74. 


73396 With traingle mark, 
26-3-74 


C/7993 


C/7994 


Paschim Banga Snr- 
karcr Sangbad Chitra 
No. 55 (March 1974) 
(Bengali) (35mm.) 
(India.) 

Satadhara Samriddhi 

S engali) (35mm 
tdia.) 


309-37(1) Iliren Bose Production Dept, of Information 73397 

13/1 IA, Swinhoe & Public Relations, — — 

lane, Cal-19. Govt, of West Bengal 28-3-74 

Calcutta. 1 writers’ 

Building. 


309 -37(1) Basusrec Films 102, Director, Vaternary 

S. P. Mukherjec Service West Bengal. 

Road, Cal-26. 


28-3-74 


PARTICULAR OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING THE WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 30-3-74 

MADRAS 


M/8487 ‘Paddalu Maralt’ 4373-72(17) Subhalakshmi Prodns., Subhalakshmi Prcdns., 67484 

(Telugu) 35mm. Madras. Madras. - 

B&W India 25-3-74 

Endorsement on Cert. No. 67484-U dt. 25th March 1974— issued to film ‘Poddlu Marali’ (Telugu) 
Length applied. 4704-39 Metres. 

Cuts : Metres 

1. Reel Y2r~Delete all shots of the young boy Chandram drinking liquor from the 

boltlo and getting intoxicated by the same. 9 -14 


2. Reel 12 — Delete the entire brothol scene in the bungalow of Gangaram whero 
girls are handed over to each customer and also mothers breast-feeding 
their children, forcibly separated and being taken from the customers, and 
treating them in n cruel manner, 

3. Reel 12— Delete the suggestive acuc n of Gangaram to his assistant Swami to 
liquidate a boy and later his sentei cc "Aa guddi vesham vesinnvadu kooda” 
and other words like “Kallu safa” etc. 


with cuts 


M/8493 


Total voluntary deletion. 198 -72 Mts. 

Actual length will he 4373 -72 Mts. in 17 Reels. 

‘Yauvanrm’ (Malaya- 3657-60(14) Necla Productions, Ncela Productions, 
lam) 33mm. B&W Trivandrum. Trivandrum. 

India. 


25-3-74 


M/8464 ‘Pathiravum Pak 1 3836-15(14) Cholavoor Productions Shri T. Kunhikandan, 

VeUchavum* (Mr I lyalam, Madras. Madras. 

35mm. B&W 


25-3-74 


M/8482 


‘Doerga Sumangali’ 4426-60(16) Vlsalakshi Combines, Shri N. S. Rajondran, 


(Tamil) 35mm. 

B&W. India, 


Madras. 


Madras. 


26-3-74 


M/8495 


M/8490 


Dilrga’ (Mcdayalam) 
(Colour) 35mm. 


‘The Magician’(Tamil) 38 -10(1) Visual Enterprises, Visual Enterprises, 67488 

(Colour) 35mm, India Madras. Madras. — — 

26-3-74 

U 

‘Durga’ (Mcdayalam) 4179-75(15) Udaya Picluros (P) Udaya Pictures (P) 67489 With cuts 

(Colour) 35mm. Ltd., Allcppey. Ltd., Allcppey. — — 

India. ' 26-3-74 

Endorsement on Cert. No, 67489-U dated 26-3-74 issued to the film ‘Dargn’ (Malayalnm) (Colour) 35mm. 

Length applied 4194-64 Melros. 

Cuts. Mts. 

I. Reel 13 — Reduce fight to the last point when father separates Mohan and Ramu. The 
action of Mohan strangling Ramu to be eliminated. 10-65 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2197 

(0 (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


2. Red 15— Reduce fihgl in the jeep to a flash. 1 -21 

3. Reel 15 — Delete accomplice in the jeep struggling with Radhn, in his effort to 

overpower hor. 1 -21 

4. Reel 15 — Delete close-shot of Mohan upon Radhn. 1 -82 

Total 14 '89 


Actual length of the film will he 4179-75 Alett es in 15 Reds. 


M/8480 


“Thiludt’ (Tamil) 4549.74 (18). Shri M. S. Kasiviswa nathan, Shri M,S. Kasiviswanathan, 67490 with out 

35mm. B&W. India. Madras. Madras 

27-3-74 

Endorsement on ccrt. No. 67490-U dt. 27-3-74 issuod to the film ‘Thirudi’ (Tamil) 35mm.B&W. 


Length applied 4571 -64 Mts. 

Cuts : Mts. 

1. Red 2 — Delete A.pp.tkkat's dialogue “Naan Ellarpper Vcchuppen, Patthupcr 5 T7 
Vachuppen”. 

2. Reel 10— Delete action of a thief who distracts Shanker’s attention by throwing 1 -52 
currency notos on the floor of the bunk countor. 

3. Reel 13 — Delete words of Karuppiah to Shanker “Rathiri Vittadhai Pidikkaven- 

dama.” 5 47 

4. Reel 15— Delete Seenu’s words to Shanker “Pendattiya Padukkiral.” 0-60 


Total 12-76 


Voluntary deletion 9 -14 Mts. in Reel 11. 
Actual length 4549 -74 Mts. in 18 Reels. 


M/8494 ‘Vellikkizhamai Vlra- 3983-50(15) Dhandayuthapani 
tham’ (Tamil) (Col,) Films, Madras. 

35mm. India. 


U 

Shri M. M. A. Chinna- 67491 

ppa Devar, Madras. — 

28-3-74 


M/8498 & 99 'Major Brand Refined 
Oil’ (Tamil & Mala- 
yalam)(Colour) 35mm. 
India. 


42 -67(1) Shri Gnauandha En- 
terprise, Madras. 


U 

Shri Gnanandha En- 67492 

terprisc, Madras. * 

28-3-74 


M/8501 


M/8460 


Trailor of ‘Jasoos 
Ladki’ (Hindi) 

35mm, B&W India 


‘Chairman Chala- 
raayya’ (Toluau) 
35mm. B&W India 


79-15(1) Sooryodaya Pictures, Sooryodya Pictures, 
Madras. Madras. 


4643-10(18) Nirmala Enterprise, Shri L. Padmanabha 
Madras. Reddy, Madras. 


U 

67493 

28-3-74 

U 

67494 

28-3-74 


With cuts. 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67494-U ell, 28-3-74 issued to the film ‘Chairman Chalamayyu’ 


(Telugu) 35mm. B&W. 

Length applied— 4691 -17 Mts. 

Cuts. Mts. 

1. Reel l— Reduce Ranga molesting a girl to a suggestion (Retained 12-19) 6-39 

2. Reel 1 — Delete teacher’s snentencc ‘Mcdrasu Mukhya Mantriga Chesina Kamaraj 

Nadaremi chadivadani. 8 -52 

3. Red 1 — From the fighting scene, delete Chalamiah torturing Ranga, twisting a 

ladder round his neck. 5 -47 

4. Reel i^Reduce Ranga whipping Chalamiah who is tied to a pillar. (Retained 

2-74) “ 5-17 


5. Red 3— From the Karnam’s dialogue, delete the words “Poojurigari kooturu”. 

(Sound only— replaced approved words). — 

6. Reel 6 — Delete Brahmam’s dialogue to barber in the shaving saloon “Minister ayi 

ehoodu, ade oppukuntundi". (Sound only — replaced approved words.) — 

7. Red 6 — Delete Brahmam’s sentence “Chopparu” regarding townfold not speaking 

the truth. 0 -30 

8. Red 7 — Delete Brahmnm saying "Vuru Prajanaykudi”. Em Prajanayukn, Inka "| 

noo Assembly Samavesai Poorti Kalada?" addressing a dog which is shown I 
there. y 

9. Red 7 — Delete Brahmam’s dialogue “Amma, inka nco Parliament Samavcsam j 

poorti Kalkda” asking the uss shown there. J 12-19 

10. Red 9 — Delete Brahmam’s following sentence to Kasturi “Guli kottala nndee”. 

“Engiue vedi okkintundi nocllu poyamantara”. “Nee gunde na lalagadu dindi" 

(Sound only— replaced approved words). -- 



2198 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 6, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 15, 1897) [Fart III— Sec, 4 


d) (2) " (3) ~ (4) (5) (6) (7) 


11. Reel 10 —Delete l lie jeep actually passing over a worker and Jagadish turning 

the dead body to a side with his leg. (No objection to the dead body being shown) 1 -21 

12, Reel 10 — Delete Jagadish telling the Collector “Pedavallaku ideka jabbandee — - 
Prabhutvam vuri sahayam pondavachukada uni parti yoduvalla illu valle tag- 

alabo ttukuntttnnaru.” 7 -61 

13. Reel 12 —Delete Panakaltt saying to Chalumayya Prajulaku tala kooda lodn . — 

(Sound only— replaced appioved words.) 

14. Reel 17 —Delete Jagadish saying "Ye Rajakeeya mtyakidoo tana satruvuni pranalato 
vadaladu kaka” (Sound only — replaced approved word9.) 

15. Reel 17 —From the lighting scone, delete a man being strangled with a garden scissors 

put to his neck. 1 21 

16. Reel 2— From the piculrisalion of song, delete the following— Song 1— Delete the 
shot of Ramash with his head just under the bottom of Radha who is on the 
tree. Reduce the shot of both face to face on a swing to a flash, avoiding the 

views of their thighs opposite to each other. 4 -86 

(4 -86 mts. replaced shot of tree and clouds). 

Reel 9 — Song 3 (a) Delete the close range shot of Kalpana having her breasts, 
before the song begins (b) Delete tho posture of Kalpana and the hero in a lip to 
lip kissing suggestion. 

(Replaced with fountain and flowers. 3 -64). 3 -64 

17. Reel 13 — From the picturisation of song 4 at the liquor shop, (a) delete Kalpana 
passing her hand downward over her breasts on “Na”; (b) Delete her vulgar breast 
movements on the song lines “Deko Bullodit, and choosko deenavva (first time) 

(c) Kalpana’s indecorous forward and backward naval jerks on ‘‘Esko bullodu”. 

(Replaced arrack shop and atmosphere shots 4 -25). 4 -25 


M/8483 

M/8503 

M/850 i 

M/8504 

M/8315 

M/8 501'J 

M/849'1 


Total 60 -82 


Total replacements 12 -75 Mts. 

Actual length will be 4643 -lOMtS, in 18 Reels. 

U 

'Did you ever see such 241 -40(1) Animal Welfare Board, British Films Ltd., UK 67495 


a thing in your life’ Madras. P.E. 

(Englisn)(Colour) 29-3-74 

16mm. UK. 

Adavi Dongalu 4546.69(18). Snkant Productions, Srikant Production U 

(Telugu) 67496 

(Colour) Madras. Madras. 

35mm. India, 29-3-74 


U 


‘Preserve Sight’ (Tamil) 
35mm. B&W.India. 

213-36(1) 

Shri R, M. Krishna- 
swarny, Madras. 

Dr. Joseph’s Eye JJospital, 67497 

Trichirapalli, 

29-3-74 

PE 

‘Entha Nalum Kapom 
(Tamil) 35mm.B&W 
India. 

305 -00(1) 

Tnc Directorate of 
Information & Public 
Relations, Madras. 

Tho Directorate of 
Information and Pub- 
lic Relations Madras, 

u 

67498 

29 -3-74 

PE 

‘Visai Thelippan’ 

(Tamil) 35min. 

B&W. India. 

305 00(1) 

-do- 

~do- 

U 

67499 

29-3-74 

PE 

Trailer of ‘Chandana’ 
(Telugu) 35mm. 

B&W. India. 

121 -92(1) 

Sridhar Combines, 
Madras. 

Sndhur Combines, 
Madras. 

U 

67500 

29-3-74 

-• 

‘Jolhi-Lakshmi’ (Tamil) 
(Tamil) 35mm. B&W 
India. 

3344 -25(14) 

R. M, S. Pictures, 
Madras. 

R. M. S. Pictures, 
Madras. 

U 

67501 

30-3-74 

With cuts 


Endorsement on ccrt. No. 67501-U dt. 30-3-74 issued to the film 'Joghi Lakshnu’ (Tamil) 35mm. B&W. 
length applied. 3344 -25 Metros. 

Cuts. Mts. 

Reel 1 - -In tho song beginning "Ennui Paaru Roja — Then Vadiyum Vanna Roja.. 

delete (ajslndha Jodi Madiyil Kudiyeru, Nittam Neeyum Noolidal Mel Nindradu. — • 
and (b) Then irudhan Nannairen Ncoradada. (Sound only — approved replaced — 

text) — — 


Actual length ot the film remains 3344 -25 Mattes in 14 Reels 


Total 



21 9 9 


Part itl— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAPIAYANA 22, 1897) 


- 

" - - ■ ■ ■ 

1 r 


— 


' " “ ” ^ ^ ■ "* " 

1 


2 

3 


4 

5 6 7 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Boaid of Film Sensors 
Dui ing the week Ending 6th Apr If 1974 


POM RAY 


B/7 1 655-60 “FveTiied Them All” 
(35mm.) (Colour) 


13/71653 "O KinawaS Ocean 
Expo' 75” (Eng.) 
(Col.) (16mm.) (Ja- 
pan) 


B/71673 "Jhumroo” (Hindi) 
(35nim.) 


B/7 1674 “Pandit Bhola Nath” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


22 - 86 ( 1 ) 


225 -78(1) 


U 

M'sTiio Films, Jyoti M/s Tiio Films Jyoti 74709 (Valid for English, 

Studio, Kennedy Studios, Kennedy - — Hindi, Bengali and 

Bridge Bombay-7. Bridge Bombay-7. 2-4-74 Assamese, Tcmil 

and Talugti 

evrsions.) 


Japan Air Lines Co. 
Ltd. 86, Vir-Nariman 
Road, Bombay-20. 


U 

Mi . Akiyama of Tomo- 74710 

hiro Gajken Co. Ltd,, — - 

2-4-74 


U 

808 00(3) Children’s Film So- Children’s Film So- 74711 

ciety. of India, ciety. Bombay-18. • — P.E. 

Hirgorumi House, 2-4-74 

Bombay-18. 

U 

465-22(2) Do. Do. 74712 P.E. 


2-4-74 


B/7 1 756 “Violence, What Pri- 

ce? Who Pays?” (No. 
2) (No. Commen- 
tary), (Music Effects 
only) (35mm.) 


B/71735 “Indian News Review 
No. 1329” (Southern 
Edition) (35mm.) 


B/71754 “Indian News Review 
No. 1329” (35mm.) 


U 

53 00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 74713 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Pcddar — 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26, 2-4-74 


U 

301 -00(1) Do. Do. 74714 (Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Tamil, 

3-4-74 Telugu, Kannada, 

& Malay alam 
versions.) 

U 

212 00(1) Do. Do. 74715 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi, 

3-4-1974 Gujarati, Assa- 
mese, Oriya, 

Punjabi, Bengali, 
Kashmiri, & LJrdu 
versions.) 

U 


B/71677 “Cold Rodders” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16mnt) 
(Canada) 


175-00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74716 Not. P. E. 
mission, Shanti Path, of Canada, Govt, of—- — — — 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada. 4-4-74 

Delhi-21. 

U 


B/71645 “Charley Squash 58-00(1) Do. 

Goes To Town” (En- 
glish) (Colour) (16- 
nun.) (Canada) 


Do. 


74717 Not. P.E. 
4-4-74 
U 


B/71658 “Doodle Film” (En- 125-00(1) Do. 

glish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 


Do. 74718 P.E. 


4-4-74 

U 


B/7 1713 “Medium is The Me- 264-00(1) Do. 

ssage You Know” 

(English), (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 


Do. 74719 P.E. 


4-4-74 

U 



THE GAZETTE OF 1NIMA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAriAYAKA 2 % 1897) [Part til— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

B/71705 

"For You Mr. Boll” 
(English) (Col.) (16mm) 
(Canada) 

183-00(1) 

B/71712 

“Mechanical Knee” 
(Eng.) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 

248 -00(1) 

B/71744 

“Fundamentals of 

Boundary Layers" 

(English) (16mm.) 

(USA.) 

269-61(3) 

B/71748 

“Low Reynolds La- 
grangian Descrip- 

tions in Fluid Me- 
chanics” (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(USA.) 

364 -24(3) 

B/71746 

“Project Discovery; 

A Demonstration 

in Education” (Eng.) 
(Col.) (16mm.) 

(USA.) 

319-43(3) 

B/71745 

“Cavitation” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

(USA.) 

342 90(3) 

B/71711 

“Louisbourg” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16mm. 
(Canada) 

230 -00(1) 

B/71707 

"High Steel” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

(Canada) 

159 00(1) 

B/71709 

"Keepers of Wild 

Life (English) (Co- 
lour) (16mm.) (Canada) 

255 -00(1) 

B/71706 

“Hero is Canada” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16mm. ) (Canada.) 

319-00(1) 

B/71704 

"Eskimo-Fight for 

Life" (Eng.) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 

579 -00(2) 

B/71676 

"Christmas At Moose 
Factory” (Eng.) (Col) 
(16mm. (Canada) 

153 -00(1) 

B/71710 

“Ladies & Gentlemen 

Mr. Leonard Cohon” 
(Eng.) (16mm.) (Ca- 
nada). 

501 -00(1) 

B/71674 

“Adelaide Village” 

(English) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 

169 -00(1) 

B/71732 

"Sheer Sport" (En- 
glish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 

574 -00(2) 

B/71676 

“Buster Keation Rides 
Again” (English) (16 
mm.) (Canada) 

626 -00(2) 


ission, Shanti Path, of Canada Govt, of — 

Chanakyapuri Canada. 4-4-74 

New Delhi-21 U 

Do. Go. 74721 


Bridge U. P. Road, nica Edu. Corpora- 
Bombay-7. tion. 

Do. Do. 


74722 

4-4-74 


mission, Shanti Path, of Canada, Govt, of — - 

Chanakyapuri, New Canada. 4-4-74 

Delhi-21. 


Not P.E. 


5-4-74 



2201 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. DECEMBER 13. 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


U/7J727 


B/71730 


B/71708 


B/71675 


B/71719 


B/71728 


B/71079 


“Owl And The Lem- 

75 -00(1) 

Cenadian High Commi- 

National Film 

U 

74736 

ming-An 

Eskimo 

ssion, Shanti 

Path, 

Board of Canada, 

- 

Legend” 

(English) 


Chanakyapuri 

New 

Govt, of Canada. 

5-4-74 

(Col.) (16 mm.) 

(Canada) 

1 ‘Redevelopmen t In 

71 -00(1) 

Delhi-21. 

Do. 


Do. 

U 

74737 


Windsor Ontario” 
(Eng.) (Col. (16mm.) 
(Canada) 

“Re-devolopmont, 180 
Is Max” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(Canada). 


184-00(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


5-4-74 

U 

74738 


5-74 


"Assignment North- 
west” (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(Canada) 


‘La Poulette Grise 


(Chanson 

De Chez 

Nous” 

(Fronch) 

(Colour) 

(Canada) 

(16mm.) 

“Question of Immu- 

n]ty M 

(English) 

(Colour) 

(Canada) 

(16mm) 

“Glimpses of Kashmir 
(English) (Colour) 

(1 6mm.) 



U 

317-00(1) Do, Do. 74739 


5-4-74 


U 

69 -00(1) Do. Do. 74740 


5-4-74 


U 

152-00(1) Do. Do. 74741 


5-4-74 

U 

121 -92(1) National Education National Education 74742 
& Information Fillms & Information Films - ■ 

Ltd., National House Ltd., Bombay-1. 6-4-74 

Tulloch Road, 

Apollo Bunder, 

Bombay-1. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


Not P. E. 


Not P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P. E. With 
triangle mark. 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 121 -92m. 

Delete the incorrect map cf India shewing Laccadiv and Andaman islands. — 2 -40m. 
(Replaced with approved map : 2 -40 m.) 

Length of the film remains unchanged. 1. e. 121 -92 m. 


B/71729 


B/71765 


B/71369 


U 

“Question of Television 633-00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74743 

Voilonce” (English) mission, Shanti Path, of Canada Govt, of — 

(Colour) (16mm.) Chanakyapuri, New Canada. 6-4-74 

(Canada). Delhi-21. 

U 

“Mushahira" (Hindi) 30 -48(1) Durga Khote Prcduc- Durga Khote Produc- 74744 

(Colour) (35mm.) tions, India House, tions. India House, — - 

Opp. GPO. Bombay- 1 opp. GPO Bombay-1, 6-4-74 

U 

“Sugandhi Katta" 4114 -88(15) Chitra Mauli, 125/1 Ram Kadam, Yasin S. 74745 
(Marathi) (35mm.) Prabhat Nagar, Fatelal, Poona-4. — — — — 

Poona -40 6-4-74 


P.E. 


Endorsement Under Ride 34. 

B/71681 

Film : “So Good To Grow Up With” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 72533 of 15-5-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Tclugu, Kannada, Tamil and Malayalam vorsiens of the film jn colour. The 
length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 2nd April, 1974. 

B/71257 

Him: “Badla” (Hindi) (Colour) 

A-Cert. No. 3218 of 7-3-1974 

Reel No. 1 7 : Deleted various shots : 62 -00 meters. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3710 -00 m, 

This certificate was endorsed on 3rd April, 1974. 



2202 


C/7728 


C/7733 


C/7991 


M/8343 

M/8472 


1 HL < . \/t I'TE OF INDIA, DECEMBER J 3, 1075 (AGRAIIAYANA 22, 1897) L1 J A1U III ~£eC. 4 


2 3 4 5 6 7 

M/71725-6, B/ 7 1766-67 
/ //»(; “Unche Char Ki SKobha” (HiQdi) 

U-C’eit. No. 74440 of 4-3-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Gujautti, Marathi, Kannada and Telugu veismnsof the film in colour. The 
length of the film lemams unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 3rd April, 1974. 

B/71726 

Film : “Pure And Gentle” (Leg.) 

U-Cort. No. 74443 of 4-3-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 4th Aptd, 1974. 

B/71613 

Film : “Peera Hare, Achha Kare” (Hindi) 

U-Cert, No. 74625 of 22-3-1974. 

Corrections:— The film is in Black and White and not in colour as stated in the obverse of the certificate. 

This ceitificate was endoised on 4th Apiil, 1974. 

B/71305 

Film : "Chor Machaye Shor” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74499 of 18-3-1974 

Reel No. IV Deleted various shots : 1 -83ni. 

Reel No. XV: Deleted various shots :5 -49m. 

XV: added various shots : 7 -32m. 

Length of deletions : 7 -32 m. 

Length of additions : 7 '32 m. 

Length of the film remains unchanged i.e. 3996 -53 m. in 15 reels. 

This certificate was endorsed on 4th April, 1974. 

B/71769 

Film : “Path of Progress” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 73203 of 24-8-1973. 

This cortificte is also valid for Marathi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 5th April, 1974. 

B/7l 543-47 

Film: “Dare The Sun” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74497 of 18-3-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu, Bengali, Kannada and MalayaNm versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 5th April, 1974. 


CALCUTTA 


Culture Organotypi- 
que in-Vitro De Tu- 
mears Malgnes Hu- 
maines (English) (Co- 
lour) 16mm-Franco 


U 

268 -00(1) Cultural Counsellor, Le Laboratoire D’ 73399 

French Embassy, New Embcryologie Experi — . 

Delhi, mentale Du C. N. R. 1-4-74 

S. Et Du College Do 
France, 


P.E. 


Scmeiologie Des Affoc- 230 '00(1) Do. 

tions Do La Glando 
Mammalre (English) 

(Colour) (France.) 


U 

Societe DTnformation 73400 

Et De Recherche Par . — 

L'Enseignemcnt Medical. 1-4-1974 


P.E. 


Shangineo (Bengali) 3992 -88(15) Sonali Production Dinen Gupta. 
(35mm. (India). 58/32A, Prince An- 

varsha Road, Calcutta 45. 


U 

73401 


3-4-1974 


MADRAS 


Trailer of ‘Harekrishnn’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm. (India), 


’Monagallu Mosagallu’ 
(Telugu) (33mm.) 
(B&W) (India.) 


U 

91-44(1) Mukcsh Enterprises. Mukesh Enterprises. 67502 


3298-15(14) V. S, Productions, V, S. Productions, 
Madras. Madras. 


i-4-74 

U 

67053 


With cuts. 


1-4-74 



2203 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2 3 4 5 6 7 


Endorsement on cert. No, 67503-U dt. 1-4-74 issued to the film ‘Monagallu Mosagallu’ (Telugu) 35mm, B&W 
Length applied. 3352 '00 Metres. 

Cuts. Metres. 

1. Reels 2 &3 — Delete the shot in which Nagu and party shop off the hand of a 

villager and the leg of another in their firstraid on the village. 

Delete also the shot in which the man, whose leg was cut off, 
is reacting. (Retained 0 '60). ...... 0 -91 

2. Reel 3 —Reduce the shot in which Balaramayya is "shot on the chest 

and h e falls down. (Retained 0 91) . 0-91 

3. Reel 3 — Reduce the shooting spree in which ton of Nagu’s men arc shot 

dead. (Retained 2 '43) 6 '39 

4. Reel 4— In the confrontation betwoen Nagu’s gang and tho villagers, reduce 

the fight and shooting, deleting gruesome shots. (Retained 2 ‘13). 2 43 

5. Reel 5 — Delete the shots In which Nagu’s horses run over Durgamma’s 

palms after she is taken captive and thrown on the field, . . 2 -74 

6. Reel 6 — Delete the shots in which dead bodies are seen hanging on the 

walls. (Once when Ramu arrives in tho village and when one of 

tho bodios is removed). ....... 0 '91 

7. Reel 9— Reduce the fight between Nagu’a gang and tho villagers, deleting 

all gruosome shots including the shots in which a villager hiding 
in a pitis dragged out, his hands held behind and his head shaven. 

(Retained 0 -30) 0 -91 

8. Reel 9— In the subsequent fight between Nagu’s men and Ramu's party, 

delete gruesome shots, including the once in which a dacoit’s head 
is shaven by Ramu’s men when they even spit on his head. . . 15 -24 

9. Reel 9— From the cabaret Item, delete the shots in which the female dancer 

makes indecorous gestures 3-04 

10. Reel 10— Reduce the fight between Nagu’s gnng and Ramu’s party, 

deleting gruesome shots. 1-21 

11. Reel 11— Reduce considerably the shots in which Ramu’s mon press the 

nock of Nagu’s men. (guarding the snake pit) with the boot and 

crush him to death. (Retained. 1 -82) 6 -09 

12. Reel 12 — Roducc the scene in which Durgamma’s son is tortured in the snake pit 
(specially deleting the shot taken from below in which four 
cobras are Seen at the same time with the chi'd in tho middle.) 

(Retained 1 82). 0-91 

1 3. Reel 1 2— After Durgamma is rescued, reduce the fight between Nagu’s gang 

and Ramu’s men, deleting gruesome shots. . . 0 -91 

14. Reel 13 - — Delete the shot in which one of Nagu’s men’s hands are twisted, 

his tonguo comes out and ho falls dead. ..... 1-52 

15. Reel 13 — Reduce considerably the scene in which Nagu’s men shoot Malla, 

when bullets pouring on his body, his rolling sideways in agony 
and the near views of his blood smeared body. Reduce also the 
shots in which his body is seen hanging from a tree branch. (Re- 
tained 2 13) . 3-95 

16. Reel 14 — Reduce the fight between Nagu’s gang and Ramu’s party, 

particulary deleting gruesome shots including the once in which 
a man’s hattd and anothei ’s leg are cut off. (Retained nil), . , 5-78 


Total . . 53-85 


Alctual length of the film is 3298 -1 5 Metres In 1 4 Reels. 


M/8506 ‘Tamilnadu Govt. 

Regl. News Bulletin 
113’ (Tamil) (35mm.) 
(B & W) (India.) 

M/8500 ‘Manushullo Devudu’ 


(Telugu) 

(Coloured) 

(India.) 


(Partly 

(35mm.) 


305 -00(1) The Directorate of Tho Directorate of 
Information & Public Information & Public ■ 
Relations, Madras. Relations, Madras. 


5398 00(19) Shrl Bhaskara Chitra, Shri A. Pundarika- 
Madras. ksboyya, Madras, 


U 

67504 

1-4-74 


U 

67505 


2-4-74 


With cuts. 


9— 369GI/75 



2204 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— -Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) 


(5) (6) (7) 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67505-U dt. 2-4-74 issued to the film ‘Manushuilo Devudu’ (Telugu) (Part ]y colour). 
Length applied. 5412-00 Metres. 

Cuts. Metres. 

Reel 16 — Reduce Mural! molesting Sectlia to a suggestion, deleting the shots 
of both struggling on bed and also the shots showing their intertwin- 
ed legs, etc. (Retained 11 -28). 14 00 


Total 14 00 


Actual length of film is 5398 00 Metres in 19 Reels. Colour portion is 422 -44 Mts. in reel No. 4 it 5. 
The balance of 4975 '56 Metres is in Black & White. 


M/8471 

Trailer of ‘Monagallu 
Mosagallu’ (Telugu) 
(35mm.) (B & W) 
(India.) 

SO -76(1) 

V. S. Productions, 
Madras. 

M/8511 

Trailer of ‘Hum Shak- 
kal’ (Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (India,) 

94-25(1) 

Olympic Pictures 

Madras. 

M/8507 

‘Vani Rani’ (Tamil) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

(India.) 

3990-16(15) 

Vijaya Productions, 
Madras. 


V. S. Productions, 
Madras 


U 

67506 


24-74 


Olympic Pictures, 
Madras. 


Vijaya Productions, 
Madras, 


U 

67507 

5-4-74 

U 

67508 
5-4-74 


With cuts. 


Endorsement on cert, No. 67508-El dt. 5-4-74 issued to the film ‘Vani Rani’ (Tamil) (Colour) 35mm. 
Length applied. 3993 80 Metres. 

Cuts. Mts. 

1. Reel 1 — Delete dialogue of doctor “Pillai Pcra Nor am Knlum Illaya”. 3 04 

2. Reel 10— Delete the girl in swimming dress, her thighs etc. (the shot 

through her legs.), 0 -60 


Total 3 64 


M/8510 


M/8509 


Actual length of film will he 3990 16 Metres In Reef. 


‘Leelaxani Iruthiya- 
thirai’ (Tamil) 35mm 
(B & W.) (India) 

93 -26(1) Chctana 
Madras. 

Enterprises, 

Chetana 

Madras. 

Enterprises, 

‘Geetha’ (Tamil) 

(35mm.) (B & W) 
India). 

3672-22(15) 

Do. 


Do. 


U 

67509 

5-4-74 

A 

3301 

5-4-74 


Particulars of Films certified or refused certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 13 th April, 1974 




BOMBAY 


U 

74746 With triangle mark. 

B/71487 

"Dost” (Hindi) (Col.) 
(35mm.) 

4828-14(17) Mr. Premnath Man- 
chanda. Hill View 
No. 2, 241-HiU Rd., 
Bombay-50. 

Mr, Premnath Man- 
chanda. Hill View 
No. 2, 241-Hill Road, 
Bombay-50. 


8-4-74 


Endorsement 

Original Length; 4857 -06m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. iv : in the drinking scene, delete the reference to niorarjibhai while pointing towards Manav as a teetotaller. (Deleted 

sound only). (Replaced with approved words). 

2. VII -. Ln the dialogue of Kajal delete the words "bastard’ and its repetition. (Deleted sound only). 

3. X/ : In the scene of a Khandala hotel, delete the entire scene of an unmarried nude couple in bed and their trying 

to put on some clothes. — 2 J3m. 

4. Xlll : Reduce considerably beating of Gopi by hirelings of monte— 10 13m. (Length retained; 8 -84m.) 

5. XIV : Reduce the tight between Manav and Monto’s gang, deleting gruesome shots. — 6 '17m. (Length retained. 21 -64m.)J| 

6. XVII ; Reduce fight between Manav, Gopi, and gangsters and Kajal’g father— 7 '52m. (Length retained; 23 -47111.) 

7. XVII : Delete the suggestion of intentionally locking up the child in an iron safe— 5 -10m. (Replaced with approved 

shots: 2 -13m.) 

Length of deletions; 31 -05m. 

length of approved replacement ; 2 -13m. 

Actual length of the film after the afiresald aloerations will he : 4821 -14m. in 17 reels. 



par* 111— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE Of 1 INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1807) 


2205 


l 

B/71718 

B/71738 

B/71735 

B/71662 

B/71736 

B/71739 

B/71793 

B/71760 

B/71751 

B/71353 


2 

3 

“Pinscreen” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

(Canada) 

443 -00(1) 

“Underground Movie” 
(English) (Colour) 

(16mm,)(Canada) 

163 -00(1) 

“Sunny Munchy 

Crunchy Natural 

Pood Shop” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(Canada) 

118-00(1) 

“Plant Nutrients 

Nitrogen Phos- 

phorus Potassium” 
(English) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

677 -37(3) 

“Tilt” (English) (Col.) 
(16mm.)(Canada) 

219 -00(1) 

“What Is Life” (Eng.) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

(Canada) 

101 00(1) 

“Self Reliance In 
Aeronautics” (Eng.) 
(35mm.) 

609 '58(2) 

"Behind The Bread- 

794 -31(3) 


line” (Eng.) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 



Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shanti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Delhi-21. 


Do. 


Do. 


Jagdish Banerjee, 2- 
Bhavancshwar Ter- 
race, Worli Naka, 
Bombay-18. 


Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shanti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Delhi-21. 


Do. 


M. V. Krishnaswamy 
68-IV Main Road, 
Bombay-3. 

Shri Gopal Ki Maha- 
resh General Mana- 
ger, M/s United Film 
Arts, 14 Rock House, 
Worli, Hill, B’bay-18, 


“The Hare Krishna 
People” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(USA) 


350-52(3) International Society 
for Krishna Consci- 
ousness, Juhu, Bom- 
bay-54. 


“Pugli” (Hindi)(Col.) 3387 -70(14) Asha Art International 
(35mm.) 5-Tulsi Khar Pali 

Road, Bombay-32, 

Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3516 -43m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 


5 6 7 


U 

National Film Board 74747 P.E. 

of Canada, Gevt. of 

Canada, 8-4-74 


U 

Do. 74748 P.E. 


8-4-74 

U 

Do, 74749 P.E. 


8-4-74 


U 

Jagdish Banerjee, 2- 74750 P.E, 

Bhavaneshwar Ter- 

race, Worli, Naka, 8-4-74 

Bombay- 18. 


U 

National Film Boaid 74751 P.E. 

of Canada, Govt, of ■ 

Canada. 8-4-74 


U 

Do. 74752 P.E. 


8-4-74 

U 

M. V. Krishnaswamy, 74753 
Bombay-3. P,E. 

8- 4-74 

U 

Sbri S. Sukhdev, United 74754 P,E 

Film Arts, Bombay-18. — — 

9- 4-74 


U 

John Fliesser. 74755 net P.E. 


9-4-74 


U 

Yusuf Hasan. 74756 With triangle mark. 


9-4-74 


1 . / : (a) Delete prominent views of the thigh in a suggestive shot and indecent movement of the dancer Rajani in 

the song beginning with the words “Dhak Dhak Dhadke kya karoo re dil. . . .” 2 -07m, (Replaced with 
approved shots). 

(b) Delete the view of kissing between Rajani and Ramosh. — 1 -78m. 

2. II : (a) Delete the kisses — 0 •47m. 

(b) Reduce drastically the scene of close proximity between Rame.sh and Rajani, their hugging, embracing 
etc., behind the semi-transparent plastic curtain. — 5 -18m. (Length retained : 2'J3m.) 

3. Ill \ Reduce the torture and views of blood-smeared face of ‘Pagli’ (Gouri) and reduce the prominent views of the 

nude painting in the background. — 17 ^Sm. (Length retained 26 -21m.) 

4. IV : Delete the abusive words “Saala” “Saale” wherever they appear in dialogues. (Deleted sound only.) 

5. VII : Delete the abusive words "Saale” “Haramzade” “Idiot” and “Bastard” (Deleted sound only). 

6. IX : Reduce the fight between Raja and the goondas reducing the threatening thrusts of broken bottle and holding 

of broken bottle at the throat and pressing against spiked tree as also scene of strangling by craapers.— 34 '02m. 
(Length retained: 40 -50m,) 

7. X : (a) In the pondscene delete the sentence “Aa majha kar le“ spoken by Gouri I 28m. 

(b) Reduce the fight between Raja and Goondas reducing the strangling between branched trunks of trees — 
13 ’87m. (Length retained : 33 -22m.) 



2206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


B/71803 

B/71804 

B/71775 

B/71805 

B/71806 

B/71811 

B/71810 

B/71458 

B/71790 

B/71791 

B/71792 

B/71799 

B/71785 


8. XIII : Delete the views of scantily clad Susie both in indecent dance movements from front and behind and when 
Ramesh tries to embrace her. — 19 -88m. 


9, XV : Reduce the fight between Ramesh and Raja in the ruins. — 34 50m. (Length retained: 47 ’86m.) 
Length of deletions : 130 -80m. 

Length of approved replacement : 2 '07m, 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be: 3387 70 m. In 14 Reels. 


"Who Pays The Price” 
(English)(35mm.) 


“Violence-What Price? 
Who Pays?” (No. 3) 
(No Commentary, 
music & effects only) 
(3Jmm.) 


“Establishing Work 
Standard Sampling” 
(Eng.) (Col.)(16mm.) 
(USA). 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1330” (35mm.) 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1330” (W.E.) 
(35mm.) 


“Fifth Five Year Plan 
of the State” (Urdu) 
(35mm.) 

"News Reel No. 33” 
(Urdu) (35mm.) 


“Kisika Dar Nahin” 
(HindiX35mm.) 


“Along The Roads of 
Lativiya” (English) 
(35mm.)(USSR) 


“After A Work Shift” 
(English) (16mm.) 
(USSR) 


"Soviet Army No. 20” 
(English) (16mm.) 
(USSR) 


“Trailer of Aap Ki 
Kasam” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


“Moscow Film Review 
No. 4” (Marathi, 
Bengali, Malayalam) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(USSR) 


60 -00(1)) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Bombay-26. 

U 

74757 



9-4-74 

U 


60 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do 

74758 

Not P.E. 




9-4-74 


273 00(2) 

AMA Education, Pvt. 
Ltd., Dr. D. N, Road, 
Bombay-40001. 

University of Califor- 
nia, Ext. Media. 

U 

74759 

P.E. 


10-4-74 


182 00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

U 

74760 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, 
Tamil, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Assa- 
mese, Oriya, Pun- 
jabi, Bengali, 

Kashmiri & Urdu 
versions). 


10-4-74 

278 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74761 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Gujarati, 
Marathi & Sindhi 
versions). 




10-4-74 

271 27(1) 

Films & Photo Officer, 
Dept, of Information, 
Govt, of J. & K. 

Dir. of Information, 
Jammu & Kashmir 
Govt. 

U 

74762 



10-4-74 


310-23(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74763 





10-4-74 


205 -74(1) 

Topaz, Movies, 19- 
Shivaji Park Bom- 
bay-28. 

Naina Thakur, Prop. 
Topaz Movies. 

U 

74764 

P.E. 


10-4-74 


453 -00(2) 

USSR Consulate 

General, 42-Nepca- 
nsea Road, 

Bombay-6. 

Riga Film Studio , 

U 

74765 




10-4-74 


210 -00(2) 

Do. 

Georgian Popular 
Science & Documen- 
tary Film Studio. 

U 

74766 




10-4-74 


236 -00(2) 

Do. 

Central Documen- 

tary Films Studio. 

U 

74767 




10-4-74 


89 -00(1) 

Filmyug Pvt. Ltd,, 
Mayur, Tilak Road, 
Santaeruz West 

Bombay-54, 

Shri J. Om Frakash, 
Filmyug Pvt. Ltd., 
Bombay-54. 

U 

74768 



10-4-74 


112-00(1) 

USSR Consulate 
General 42- Nepean- 
sea Road, Bombay-6, 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio. 

U 

74769 



10-4-74 




Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2207 


l 


2 3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/71784 


B/71773 

B/71798 


B/71665 


B/71669 


“Around The Soviet 
Union No. 104” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (USSR) 


“Lacto Calamine Ki 
Bahar” (Hindi)(Col.) 
(33mm.) 


“Rallimix" (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.), 


“Trailer of Hamrahi” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm). 


“Tr. of Gharibi Ha- 
tao” (Hindi) (Co- 
lour) (35 mm.). 


U 


278 '00(1) 

USSR Consulate 
General 42- 
Nehcansea Road, 
Bombay-6. 

Ccnti al Documentary 
Films Studio. 

74770 

10-4-74 

U 

30 -00(1) 

Kamla Sharma, 

Widescreen. 

Mrs. Kamla Sharma, 
Widescreen. — 

74771 

10-4-74 

U 

30 48(1) 

M/s. Television Radio 
& Motion Pictures, 
6-A Rasbmi Car- 
mlchal Road, Bom- 
bay-6. 

M/s. Television Radio 
& Motion Pictures, — 
Bombay-6. 

74772 

10-4-74 

U 

93 -88(1) 

Sagar Art Corporation, 
Natraj Studios, 
Kurla Road, An- 
dheri, Bombay-69. 

Subhash Sagar, Natraj 
Studios, Bombay-60. - 

74773 

11-4-74 

U 


64 12(1) 4-V, Pictures Tulsi, R, K. Midha, 74774 With triangle mark. 

30, Road, Khar, 

Bombay-J2. 11-4-74 


Endorsement — 

Original Length : 65 -23 m. 

1. Delete a reference by a Goonda “Kya gal ha hua badan hat teri bahenka yaar Agar usko bhi saath laate to aaj ki raat chandani 
raat ho jaati*’.— 3 '55 m. (Replaced with approved shot : 7 -32 m,). 

2. Delete completely the molestation of a woman by a man including the opening of her clioli etc. : 7 -3 in. 

(Replacod with approved shot subject to tho following cut : 6 -40 m.) 

Delete the molestation of a girl by a man only koeping the word of the girl “Main soch bhee naliin sakti tlii ki turn italic gir jaogc”. 
3 -96 m. 

Length of deletions ; 14 -83 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 13 -72 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid will be ; 64. 12 m. 

A 

B/71600 “Do Number Ke 3956 -28(18) Mukul Enterprises, Ram Dayal & Diddoe, 3222 With triangle mark. 

Ameer" (Hindi) Ranjit Studios, Main Ranjit Studic Main 

(Colour) (35 mm.). Road, Dadar Bom - Road, Dadar Bom - 11-4-74 

bay-14. bay-14. 


Endorsement — 

Original Length : 3974-28 m. 


Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1 . 


2 . 


3. 

4. 

5. 

6 . 

7. 

8 . 


VI : Delete reference o “Birla” being able to make temples and temples not being able to make Birla. (Delotod sound only), 

(Replaced with approved words). 

VII : Reduce the fight between Ravi and Pram’s gang by deleting hard hitting shpls and kicks on the stomach and chine. — ] -84 m. 

(Length rtainod 40 -34 m.). 

IX : In the hotel dance delete the shot where Hema puts her legs around the waist of Rabi. — 4 05 m (Replaced with approved 
shots : 4 05 m.). 

XIII : During the song “Do number ke ameer, ...” dolote the shot of Ajit Prasad kissing his mistress. — 1 -21 m. (Replaced with 
approved shots : 1 -21 m.). 

XIII : Delete the last pottion of tho dialogue botween two characters where the man presses his hand over tho head of anc ther and 
says “Promise " with indecent suggestion. — 0 -50 m. 

XV : Reduce tho close up of Sunita’s face and hand when she is boirg raped by Pran Including the suggestive shot of the hand 

opening and showing the palm with blood. — 3 -48 m. (Length retainod 2 -44 m.). 

XVI : Reduce drastically tho fight on roof top. — 12 T9 m. (Length retained - 15 06 m.). 

XVII i The end of the film doos not show that a man who has amassed wealth by foul means suffer. As such the end may be suita- 

bly modified . 


(Deleted sound) (End has been modified by deleting some dialogues and by repeating a stanza of a song beginning with 
the ‘word "A do number ke ameer’’ 

Length of deletions : 23 -26 m, 

Length of approved replacement : 5 '26 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will de : 3956 -28 m. in 17 reels. 



2208 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part HI— SeC. 4 


1 


C-7992 


2 3 4 5 6 7 

Endorsement under rule 34 
B/71369 

Film “Sugandhi Katta” (Marathi) 

U-Cort. No. 74745 of 6-4-1974. 

Corrections : Tho length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 423* -55 m. instead of 41 14 *8 m. 
This certificate was endorsed on 8th April, 1974. 


B/71771 

Film : "Baat The Hoat" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74678 of 27-3-1974 

This certificate is valid for Hindi version of tho film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 9th April, 1974. 

B/71632 

Film ‘‘When Dream Conies True" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74656 of 25-3-1974. 

The title of the aim on the face of the certificate may be read as "When Dream Comes True alias Seeing Is Believ- 
ing” instead of “When Dream Comes Truo”. 

Reel No. 1 : Deleted title “When Dream comes true — 3 00 m. Added title “Seeing Is Believing 3 00 m. The length 
of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 10th April, 1974. 

B/71802-2 

Film ; “Here’s Proof For You” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 73241 of 1-9-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Kannada and Tolugu versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 11th April, 1974. 

CALCUTTA 

U 

Sadin Duiane (Ben- 3988 01(15) Chalachitra Bharati Bibhuti Laha and Shib 73402 

(35 mm) (India). 393/A Block ‘O' Narayan Dutta. 

New Aliporo CaJ- 9-4-74 

cutta-53. 


Endorsement — 

Original length— 3,988 01 

Reel 6 ; Deleto the words “Buro Shola” J'roni the dialogue of Arka Pratap roforring to his fathor (the word* 
’Buro Shala ’ erased— No change In length). 


C-7996 


Life of Buddha in Pro- 239 '27(1) 
scoos (English) (35 mm) 

India 


National Art Films Anupam Roy, 
Road No. 2, Rajen- 
dra Nagar, Patna-16 


U 

73403 

P.E. 

9-4-74 


C-7997 


C-7995 


C-7999 


C-8000 


The Folk Art of Vara- 
nasi (English) (35 
mm) (India). 

270 -27(1) 

Do. Do. 

U 

73404 



9-4-74 

Fuluthakurma Bengali 
(35 mm) (India). 

3624 06(13) 

Sadhan Films Naba- Merinal Kanti Roy. 
pally Colony More, 

Baiaset. 

U 

73405 


9-4-74 

Rajdhont Aru Ekhan 
Mohanagaror Jan- 
ma (Assamese) 

(35 mm) (India), 

202 -69(1) 

Lakshmi Productions, Lakshmi Productions, 
Gauhati. Gauhati. 

U 

73406 


9-4-74 

Spandan (Assamese) 

(35 mm) (India). 

324 -59(1) 

Do. Do. 

U 

73407 



9-4-74 


MADRAS 


u 


M-8516 

‘Dharmavijayamu’ 
(Tolugu) (Colour) 

(35) mm, (India). 

30 -48(1) 

Cine Ads, Corpn. Cine Ads, Corpn, 
Soounderabad. Secundorabad. 

67510 — 

9-4-74 

M-8469 

“Hum Shakal’ (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 nim),, 
(India). 

3991 -35(15) 

Olympic Pictures, Olympic Pictures, 

Madras. Madras. 

V 

6751 1* 5 * With cuts. 

10-4-74 



2209 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AQRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


Endorsement on cert. No, 6751 1-U dated 10th April 1974 — issued to the film “Hum Shakal' (Hindi) (Colour). 

Length applied. — 3993 16 Meters, 
i ts. 

1. Reel 2 — Dolete Sugar's shooting down of a girl at point blank ranga, 

2. Reel 5 — Doloto shot of the tuffian’s finger in the socket of the lamp to gat electrocuted. 

I. Reel 6 — Deloto Lakshman’s kiss on the check of Radha. 


M-8514 


Actual length of the film nil! be : 3 991 35 Metres in 15 Reels. 

MADRAS 

‘Tula BharanT (Tclu- 4224 -52(18) Sri Ramana ChitrU, Sri Rumana Cliitia. 
gu) (35 mm) (B&W). Madras. Madras. 

(India). 


M-8517 


‘Vandlkkari’ (Malaya- 
lam) (35 mm) B&W 
(Trrdla). 


'Potash — The Indis- 

pensable PlantlFood’ 
(Tamil) (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 


1089 -25(4) Nccla Produclions, Neela Productions 
Trivandrum. Trivandrum, 


541 -93 (2) Krishnaswamy Asno- Knshnaswamy Asso- 
ciates (P) Ltd. Madras, ciates (P) Ltd. Madras. — 


10-4-74 

U 

67513 

10-4-74 

U 

67514 


M-8S18&19 Tribal Life In Kerala 
English & 

Malayalam (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 


640 -50(2) f ilmugo.Trichur, 
Kerala. 


Shri Azees Trichur, 
Kerala, 


10-4-74 


M-852Q Bridging the Gap 

& 21 (English & Mala- 
yalam) (Colour) (35 
mm) (India). 

M-8522 In* & outs (EngUsh) 

(Colour) (35 mm) 
(India). 

M-8542 Tamilnadu Govt. Re- 

gional Nows Bulle- 
tin 114" (Tamil) (35 
mm) B&W (India). 

M-8533 Trailer of ‘Adavi 

Dongalu’ (Telugu) 
(35 mm) (India). 


30 -48(1) 


30 -48(1) 


305 -00(1) The Directorate of The Directorate of In- 
Information & Public formation & Public 
Relations, Madras, Relations, Madras. 


92-96(1) Srikant Productons, Srikant Productions, 
Madras. Madras. 


10-4-74 


10- 4-74 
U 

67518 

11- 4-74 


12-4-74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF 
FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 20TH APRIL, 1974. 


B/71715 

"North of 60 East” 

319-00(1) 

BOMBAY 

Canadian High Com- 

National Film Board 

U 

74755 


BI/71 731 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (Canada). 

“The Sea" (English) 

323 -00(1) 

mission, Shanti Path, 
Chanakyapuri New 
Delhi -4 

Do. 

of Canada, Govt. - 
of Canada. 

Do. 

15-4-74 

U 

74776 

P. E. 

M/71734 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Canada). 

"Street of Saigaon" 

320-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

15-4-74 

U 

74777 

P. E. 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 nun.) (Canada). 



— 

15-4-74 

P. E, 


B/71845-7 "Live Happy Foods 
From Dipy’s" (Eng- 
Ush Hindi & Bengali) 
(Col.) (35 mm.). 


B/71782 


B/71774 


“Suhag Raat” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm,). 


30 -48(1) The Far Production The Far Production 
Co. A-Rock Side Co., Bombay-6. 

2nd Floor, Walkesh- 
war Rd,, Bontbay-6. 

32 -61(1) Mahesh Jain, Sea J. Mahesh Art Films. 
View Hotel Room 
No. 31. 


^"Trailer of Anjan 85-35(1) Mohan Films. M/s, Mohan Films, 74780 

Raahen" (Hindi) Sablok Mansion, — ■ — — — With tri; 

(Colour) (35 mm.). Khar, Bombay-52. 16-4-74 

Endorsement , — 

Original Length .- — 89 -31 nt. 

Reduce the fights by deleting hat-d hits on the stomach, chest and head.— 3 96 (Length retained.— 2 -74 m.). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 85 -35 m. 


M/s, Mohan Films, 
Sablok Mansion, — 
Khar, Bombay-52. 


15-4-74 


1 5-4-74 
U 

74780 


16-4-74 


With triangle mark. 


2210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


B/71764 "Lord Bahu Ball” 
(English) (16 nun. ). 


B/71542 “Naya Savera" (Hindi) 
(16 nim,). 


B/71880 "Indian News Review 
No. 1331" (Northern 
Edition) (35 mm). 


B/71879 “Indian Nows Review 
No. 1331” (35 mm,). 


1028 '22(3) P. Venkatrao, C/o. 

M/s. Modern-1 6 Cine 
Lab. Pvt. Ltd,, Sahas 
Bldg. Prabhadevl, 
Bombay-25. 


P, Venkatrao, Prabha- 
devl, Bombay-25. 


U 

74781 


16-4-74 


342-28(3) National Education National Education 
& Infoi mation Films & Information Films - 
Ltd., National House, Ltd., National House, 
TulLoch Road, Bom- Tullock Road, Bom- 
bay-1 . bay-1 . 


260 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 


U 

74782 


16-4-74 


U 

74783 


N ot P. E. 


Not P. E. 


(Valid for Eng- 

. — . liah, Flindi, Kash- 

17-4-74 min, Punjabi & 
Urdu Versions). 


182 -00(1) Films Division, Bom- 
bay-26. 


Do. 


B/71895 “VIOLENCE— What 

Price 7 Who Pays? 
No. 4" (English) 
(35 mm ), 


B/71882 “Volence— What Price? 

Who Pays No. 5" 
(Hindi) (35 mm.). 


B/71677 "Aap Kl Kasam” 
(Hindi) (Col.) (35 
mm.). 


B/71764 “Trailer of Do Num- 
ber Ke Ameer (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35 mm.). 


B/71747 “Bring the World to 
the Class room (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm ) 


B/71750 "Work of the Kidneys” 
(English) (16 ntm.). 


B/71808 “Ankur” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.). 


3/71794-7 "Around the Soviet 
Union No. 96" 

(Colour) (16 mm.). 


B/71814 "Trailer of Dil Kl 

Rahen” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.), 

B/71749 “Problem of Conser- 

vation Water” 
(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.). 


48 00(1) 


65 -00(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

74784 

17-4-74 


U 

74785 


4195-26(16) 


86-36(1) 


213-11(2) 


Filmyug Pvt. Ltd., 
Mayur Tilak Road, 
Bombay-54. 


Mukul Enterprises, 
Ranjit Studio, Dadar, 
Bombay-14. 


Cornel, Sandhurst 
Bridge, V. P. Road, 
Bombay-7. 


17-4-74 
U 

74786 

U 

74787 
17-4-74 

U 

Ram Dayal, C/o. 74788 

Ranjit Studio, Dadar, ■ — — 

Bombay-14. 17-4-74 

U 

74789 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Telugu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Assa- 
mese, Oriya & 
Bengali.). 


P. E. 


Do. 


Shri J. Om Prakash 


P. E. 


E. B. Educational Corpn. 


122 -53(1) 


3742 -34(14) 


Do. 


Blaze Film En tel prises 
Pvt. Ltd. 


Do. 


17-4-74 

U 

74790 

17-4-74 

U 


P.E. 


P.E. 


Blaze Film Enterprises 74791 

Pvt. Ltd. - — 

17-4-74 


111-00(1) U.S.S.R. Consulate 
General, Bombay. 


86 -86(1) S. Kamruddin. 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio. 


Sultan. 


178-92(2) 


U 

74792 

18-4-74 


U 

74793 

18-4-74 

U 

74794 


(Valid for Marathi, 
Gujurati, Punjabi, 
Tamil & Telugu 
Versions.) 


Cornel, Sandhurst Encyclopaedic Britan - 

Bridge, V, P. Road, nica Educational — 

Bombay-7. Corpn. 18-4-74 


P.E. 


2211 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


U 

B/70579 “Dharmendar Plays 4176-70(16) Ramesh Lakhanpal Cine Mandcr, 3/3 74795 

Pocket Maar" (Hindi) & Joginder, 38-North Air Conditioned Mai- ——— With triangle mark. 

(Colour) (35 nun.). Bombay Society Sing ket, Tardeo Bombay- 18-4-74 

Luthra, Juhu, Bomb- 34. 

54. 

Endorsement . — 

Original Length.- 4210 -99 m. 

Cut Reel 

No. No. 

1 I : Delete the word “Maal” with reference to a 16 year old girl, as spoken by 

Sunder. {Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved words,) 

2 T ; Delete the view of a foreign couplo kissing in the background of one of the 

superimposed titles . . , . . . , . 2 -44 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots.— 2 44 m.) 

3 II : Delete the references to ‘‘daalna” a n d “Jaana” in the dialogue spoken by 

Sunder in the restaurant. (Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved 
words) ' 

4 VI 11 : Delete the suggestive words “Aap khush ho jaygoi” as spoken to Sheela by 

Sunder in the disguise of a Captain . . . 4 -50 nr. 

(Replaced with approved shots ; 0 -45 m.) 

5. IX : (a) Delete the words “Nagpur ki narangi, jaisi, musth jawani” as spoken by 

Mtulan’s man to the blind girls . . . . . . 0-61 m. 

(6) Reduce the close punches in the fight between Shanker and Madan’sman 3 -05 m. 

(Length retained : 9 • 14 m.). 

6. IX : (a) Delete the words to the following effect uttered by Madan’s henchman 

to Ganga’ 1 Tumhare darwajepar aakar main is husn aur jawani ko 
lootebinu hichala jaoon ?" (Delete sound only) 


(h) Reduce the scene where Madan’s accomplice tries to molest Ganga . 2 -43 m. 

(Length retained :2 -43 m.). 

7. IX : Delete the words “garam" in the dialogue spoken by Shanker to Asha near 

the swimming pool. (Deleted Sound only) 

8. X: De/efcthccloseshotoCShankcrcarossingthcbarolegeof Asha . . 2-13m. 

(Length replaced .2 -13 m.). (approved.). 

9. XII: Reduce suitably the fighl between Shanker and gangsters . . . 7 -92 m. 

(Length retained : 13 -42 m ) 

10, XV : Reduce the torture of Shanker by dragginghim with the help of Jeep . 2-13m. 

(Length retained : 6 40 m.) 

11, XVI : Reduce the dragging of Madan by Shanker and reduce the fight, particularly 

close punches on face and stomach . . . . . 7 -92 m. 

(Length retained : 53 -04 m.). 

12, XV & Reduce the light between Shanker and Madan and his henchmen and rc- 

XVI duce dragging of Shanker 6 18 m. 

(Length retained : 53 -67 m.). 

Length of deletions. — 39-31 m. 


B/71816-23 


B/71813 


B/71741 


B/71716 

B/71740 


Length of approved replacement.- 5 -02 m. 

Actual l ength of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he — 41 76 -70 m in 16 Reels. 


“Fastor, Higher, 

Stronger” (16 mm.) 
(U.S.S.R.). 

212 -00(2) 

U.S.S.R. Consulate 
General 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio 

“A Guest Is As a 
God” (Music only) 

(35 mm.). 

60-96(1) 

Mr. Zafar Hai, Cine- 
ral Communications, 
kshma Bhavan, Bom- 
bay-20. 

Mr. Zafar Hai, Cine- 
ral Communications, 
Kshma Bhavan, Bom- 
bay-20. 

“Winds of Fogo” 
(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm ) (Canada). 

233 -00(1) 

Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shunti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Delhi-4. 

National Film Board 
of Canada, Govt, of 
Canada. 

“Off Shore” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Canada). 

226-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

“Where There Is 

Smoko” (English) 

(Colour) (16 nun.) 
(Canada). 

137-001(1) 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74796 

— (Valid for English, 

18-4-74 Hindi, Marathi, 

Gujarati, Punjabi, 
Telugu, Kannada 

and Malayajam 
versions.), 

U 

74797 


19-4-74 


U 

74798 

— — P.E. 

19-4-74 

U 

74799 

— P.E. 

1 9-4-74 
U 

74800 

— P.E. 

19-4-74 


10— 369G1/75 



2212 

1 

B/71717 

B/71733 

B/71761 

B/71445 


B/71635 


B/71752 

B/71753 

B/71844 

B/71877 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


2 

3 

“Oskec Wee Wcc" 
(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (Canada), 

125-00(1) 

"Specialist” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.). 

112-00(1) 

“Mujhe Nam se 
Pukaro" (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm,). 

47-24(1) 

“Hamrahi” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

3853 -72(15) 

Endorsement.— 



4 


5 


Canadian High Commis- 
sion, Shanii Path, Chan- 
akyapuri, New Delhi 

Do. 


Urmil Pictures 


Sagar Art Corpora- 
tion, Natrttj Studio, 
194 Kurla Road, 
Bombay-69. 


National film Board 
of Canada, Govt, of 
Canada, 

Do. 


Vibhuti Narayan Singh 


Subhash Sagar. 


Original Length. — 3922 '55 m, 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. IX : Reduce the sequence on preparation for a human sacrifice vvhere the heroine 
is shown to be captive of the bridge contractors man and is about to be 
sacrificed ........... 

(Length retained : 35 -31 m.) 


2. X : Reduce to the minimum the scene of heroine being tortured by Sujeet with 

a knife ... 

(Length retained : 0 -61 m.) 

3. XI : Roduce the scene in which Ramcsh presses his legontheneckofagoonda 

and blood cozing front his mouth and the subsequent scene when he is 

repeatedly drowned in the bath-tub 

(Length retained : 5 '18 m.) 

4. XTI : During the dance of three girls in smuglcrs’ den, delete the shot of 

indecorous action of the dancing girls .... 


6 7 


U 

74801 

19-4-74 

U 

74802 

19-4-74 

U 

74803 

19-4-74 

U 

74804 
19-4-74 


P.E. 


P.E. 


With triangle mark. 


20 -73 m. 


5 -56 m. 


5 '71 m. 


2'28 m. 


5. XV : Reduce the fight between Ramcsh and Sujoct on top of a building under 

construction 34 '55 m. 

Length of deletions. — 68 -83 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 3853 -72 m.in 15 reels- 

U 

“Trailer of Goonj” 81-99(1) Sangam Films. A. V. Mohan 74805 

(Hindi) (Colour) — With triangle mark. 

(35 mm,). 19-4-74 

Endorsement . — 

Original Length. — 88 -39 m. 


1 . Reduce the sequence of a couple making love in bed, by deleting tbe second half of 

the scene where be caresses her back and tries to open the zip • ■ • 4 -27 m. 

(Length retained : 2 -89 m.) 

2. Reduce the impact of the fight by deleting bard hitson the stomach, keeping one 

or two blows . . . . - . ■ . . . 2 13 m. 

(Length retained : 3 '20 m.). 

Length of deletions. — 6 -40 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 8i '99 rn. 


U 

“Sangam” (Hindi) 274 -62(1) Ratna Gupta, Propric- Ratna Gupta Bombay- 74806 

(Colour) (35 mm.). tores, Darpan 26— N, 59. — — ~ — 

Block Eva Corpo- 20-4-74 

rative Society Junu, 

Bombay-59, 

U 

“Naya Savcra" (Hindi) 257 '86(1) S, R. Saaz, Proprietor S. R. Saaz. Bombay-50 74807 

(Colour) (35 mm.). Amina, -A Movie — ■ — 

Makers Association, 20-4-74 

4/5 Kazi Blocks, 

Bombay-50. 

U 

“Trailer of Dhuen Ki 91 '44(1) Roopanjali, Pvt. Ltd., Roopanjali Pvt. Ltd., 74808 

Lakccr’ (Hindi) 43-Bhupan Chember, 43-Bhupen Chember, — . — 

(Colour) (35 mm.). Dalai Street, Bombay- 1. Dalai Street, Bombay- 20-4-74 


U 

“Phir Kab Milogi” 3878-90(15) Shri Hari Mehra, 91- Shri Hari Mehra, 91- 74809 

(Hindi) (Colour) Marino Drive, Bom- Marine Drive, Bom- 

(35 mm.). bay-2, bay-2. 


P.E 


P.E. 


20-4-74 



2213 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 

2 3 


4 

5 

6 

7 

B/71883 

“Men Hoon Chatur 296 00(1) 

Siyar” (Hindi) 

(16 mm.). 

Space 

Centre, 

380015 

Applications 

Ahmedabad- 

Space Applications 
Centre Sahejanbad 
College Bldg. Ahmeda- 
bad-380015. 

U 

74810 

P.E. 


20-4-74 


END ORSEMENT UNDER R ULE 34 


B/71487 

Film : “Dost” (Hindi) (35 mm.) (Col.), 

U-Ccrt. No. 74746 of 8-4-1974. 

Reel No. H : Deleted various shots 

Reel No. V : Deleted various shots ........ 

Reel No. XV : Deleted various shots . 

Reel No. XVI : Deleted various shots ....... 

Length of deletions : 132.60 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 4695. 54 m In 17 reels. 
This certificate was endorsed on 16th April, 1974. 


23 47 m. 
51 -52 m. 
28 '35 m 
29-26 m. 


13/71804 

Film: “Violence What Price > Who pays? (No. 3) 

U-Cert. No. 74758 of 9-4-1974. 

CorrectlonstThe length of the film on the face of certificate may be read as 28 00 metres instead of 60 00 rreties. 
This certificate was endorsed on 17th April, 1974. 


B/71883-94 

Film: “Path of Progress” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 73203 of 24-8-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for following versions of the film under tho titles indicated against each of them, 
Hindi: Pragati ka path, Oriya, Pragati ka path, Assamese : Pragti ka path, Urdu : Pragti ka path, Bengali : Pragli 
ka path. Telugu: Path of Progress, Tamil : Path of Progress, Punjabi: Pragti ka path, Malayalam; Path of Progress, 
GuTarathi: Pragti ka path, Kannada: Path of Progress- The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th April, 1974, 


B/71654 

Film: “Saga of Shipping ” (English) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74686 of 29-3-1974, 

Reel No. I — Deleted various shots: 23 00 Reel No. U — Deleted various shots : 43 '00 
Length of deletions : 66 00 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be\ 457 -00 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974. 

B/71572 

Him: “Applique Of Orissa" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74633 of 22-3-1974. 

Deleted various shots: 55 09m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 236 -91m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974. 

B/71779-80 

Film: “Thirst” (English) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74630 of 22-3-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil and Telugu versions of the films in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974. 

B/71778 

Film: “Pyas" (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74629 d of 22-3-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974. 


B/71860 

Film: “Peera Hare, Achha Kare" (Hindi). 

U-Cert. No. 74625 of 22-3-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Marathi versions of the film. The length of the film remains 
unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974, 



5214 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 ~2 3 4 5 6 7 


B/71800 

Film : "Stay With You” (English) 

U-Certificate No. 72405 of 27-4-1973, 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in dolour. The length of the film reamains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974. 

B/71543-47 

Film : “Date The Sun" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74497 of 18-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in cloiour . The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 19th April, 1974, 


CALCUTTA 


C-7998 


Asati (Bengali) 35mm 4,091 00(14) 
India. 


Gectaii Pictures 80/1, Geetali Datta. 

M, Kankulia Road, 

Cal- 19. 


U 

73408 


16-4-74 


C-7990 

C-8001-02 

C-8003 

C-8005 

M-8512 


Bisarjan (Bengali) 35 
mm-India 

Femila Snow (Bengali) 
& Hindi) (Colour) 
35mm-lndia. 


Sayees Keta (Nepali) 
35mm-India. 


Lamja Parshuram 
(Manipuri) 35mm- 
lndia. 

"Ncedaloni Aadahi’ 
(Telugu) (Colour) 
35mm. India. 


U 

3,07, -52(11) Sahita Chitram 23, Sabita Bose 73409 

Baishabghata Lane, — — - 

Calcutta-47. 16-4-74 

30 48(1) Admakers 16, Shakes- Admakcrs U 

pearSarani, Cai-16. 73410 


16-4-74 

U 

343 -50(1) Devkota Films, Dar- Praup Subha, 73411 

jeeling, — 


16-4-74 

U 


3,903-88(14) N. S, Films (Manipur) 
Paona Bazar, 1m- 
phal, Manipur. 
MADRAS 

G. Nayran 

Sharma. 

73412 

19-4-74 

3944 - 1 J (15) Hyderabad Movies, 

Hyderabad 

Movies, 

A 

Madras. 

Madras, 

3302 


15-4-74 


With Cuts. 


Endorsement on cert. No. 3302-A dated 15th April, 1974— issued to the film "Necduloni aadadhi’ (TeluciO 
Length applied. 3996 -47 Metres. v 6 ’’ 

Cuts. Mts. 


1. Reel 4— Delete the shot of Madhu’s head resting on the breast portion of 

Radha in the song picturisation 4 .55 

2. Reel 6 Delete the close-shot of Radha removing her brassier when she 

is undressing and Pasupati is looking at her . . . . 1-82 

3. Reel 6 Reduce tho sequence of pasupati raping Radha to the bare mini- 

mum, especially deleting the shots of interwined legs on bed. 

(Retained 6 -39). • (0-66 

4. Reel 8 Delete (a) the two prominent shots of the gamp Ragini wearing 

only brassier with bottle in between her legs, facing camera 1 -82 

(b) the low-angle shot of Ragini with prominent brassier view, 

sitting on the teapoy in the cross-logged posture. 0-91 


5. Reel 13 Reduce by 70% the rich man Ranganatnam molesting Radha 
both on bed as well as on floor, especially deleting his action of 
tearing of her blouse, pulling off her sari. (Retained 
14-01). . . . , 26-81 

6 . Reel 15 From the surgical operation scene on Madhu 
delete entirely tho close-range shot of the wound being closed by 
stitching. (No objection to keeping a flash view of cutting tho 
thread at the end. Replaced approved shot 5 -78). • ■ 5-78 


Total . 52 -36 


Actual length of the film will be 39-44-11 Metres in 15 Reels. 



2215 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHA YANA 22, 1897) 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


M-8539 


‘Chandana’ (Telugu) 
35mm. B&W. India. 


4226 -65(16) Sridhar Combines, 

Madras. 


U 

Sridhar Combines, 67520 

Madras. 

16-4.74 


U 

M/8538 ‘Aramatia RahttsyanT 3963-35(17) Pionoor Entortaincrs, Pioneer Entortair ers, 67521 With cuts, 

(Malayalam) (35 mm Madras. Madras. — — 

(B. & W.) (India). 17-4-74 

Endorsement on Cortificato No, 67521/U dated 17-4-1974 issued to film ‘Aramana Rabasyam’ (Malayalam) (35 mm) (B.& W.) 
Length applied. — 3973 -35 Metres, 

Cuts : Moiras 

Reel 4 — Reduce Pappolta whipping Venu. (Retained 10 Metres). 10-00 


Total : 10 -00 


M/8532 


M/8524 


M/8537 


M/8525 


M/8531 


Actual length oj the film will be . — 3963 -35 Metres in 17 Reels. 


‘Sothu Bandhanam’ 4235 -80(15) Surya Pictures, Madras Shri R. Somanr.th, U 

(Malayalam) (35 mm) Madras. 67522 

(B. & W) (India) 

17-4-74 

U 

“Alluri Sitaramaraju” 5138-30(20) Jayashri Combines, Shri G. Hanumaitha 67523 

(Tolugu) (Colour) Madras. Rao, Madras. 

(Cinemascope) 18-4-74 

(35 mm) (India), 

U 

Trailer of ‘Aramana 106 -68(1) Pioneer Emertainors, Pioneer Entertaii ers, 67524 

Rahasy am’ (Malaya- Madras. Madras - — 

lam) (35 mm) (B. & 18-4-74 

W.) (India) 


‘Upasane’ (Kannada) 4273 -29(16) Chithra Jyothi, Mysore Chitra Jyothi, Myioro 
(Col.) (35 mm) (India 


U 

67525 


18-4-74 


‘Uthama lllau’ (Tolugu) 3942-27(16) Nageswura Produe- Nagoswara Produc 1 ion* 67526 Wilh ruts 

(35 mm) (B. & W.) tions, Madras. Madras. 

(India). 18-4-74 

Endoisement on cert. No, 67524-U dt. 18-4-74 issued to film ‘Uthama Illau’ (Tolugu, (35 mm) (B, & w.) 

Length applied. — 3952 -93 Modes. 


Cut : Metres 

Real 5 — Delete Sangh’s sentenee “Yoe Prapanchamlo chUma pilla, podda pill-i, 

pedda maiushi, Dabhugalavadu, Kavi, Bajakoeya vettn overyna saio kakaku 10 -66 

alavatu paddaru" . 

Total 10 -66 


Actual length of the film will be . — 3942 -27 Metres in 16 Reels. 


M/8534 

‘Nollu’ (Malayalam) 
(Cole ur) (35 mm) 
(India) 

3532-32(13) 

Jamu Films Jmcrna- Jamu Films Interna- 
tional, Madras, tional, Madras. 

U 

67527 

18-4-74 

M-8335 

“Ground Spill Petro- 
leum Fires’ (English) 
(Colour) 16mm, USA 

109-72(1) 

Madras Refinories Ltd, Teaching Filns Inc., 
Madras. Texas, USA. - 

U 

67528 P.F, 

19-4-74 

M-8339] 

‘Process Unit Tower 
Flanges and Pump 

Packing Firos’ (Eng- 
lish)(Colour) 16mm. 
USA. 

109-72(1) 

Madras Refineries Ltd. Teaching Films Inc. 
Madras. Taxas, USA, 

U 

67529 P,E. 

19-4-74 



2216 the gazette of india, December 13, 1975 (AGrahayana 22, 1897 ) [Part iii—Sec. 4 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


M-8546 


Trailer of ‘Sathi Anu- 94-48(1) Venkatapathy Pictuics Shri S, V. Rajagopal, U 

suya’ (Hindi)(Colour) Madras Madras. 67530 

35mm. India, — — 

20-4-74 


PARTICULARS OF l-ILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENT RAL BOARD OF FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 27TH APRIL, 1974 

BOMBAY 


B/71742 


B/71737 


‘You Don’t Back 
Down” (English) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 


U 

316 00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74811 P.E. 

mission, Shanti Path. of Canada, 

Chanakyapuri Now Govt, of Candda. 22-4-74 
Delhi-21. 


”20 Million Pooplo” 289 00(1) Do 

(English) (Colour) 

(16mm) (Canada) 


Do U 

74812 P.E. 


22-4-74 


B/71897 


B/71809 


B/71723 


B/71724 


B/71770 


B/71903 


8(71904 


B/71913 


“Wide World of Cali- 
co" (Einglish) (Co- 
lour) (35mm.) 


‘Roplas Fibreglass 
Bodies” (English) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


‘Towards A New Life” 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
ram,) 


“Samay Ki Pukar” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


‘National Chemical 
Laboratory in the 
Sorvice of Nation. 
(Eng.) (Col.) (35 mm) 


“Kaal Ane Aaj” (Guj.) 
(35 mm) 


“Apna Sukh Apne 
Hath” (Hindi) (Col. 
(35 mm) 


U 

30-48(1) Ruehi Chilra, Bhakar S. K. Bhattacharya, 74813 

Bhavan, 222/1, Sir 

Hhalchandra Rd., 22-4-74 

Bombay- 19. 


U 

136-66(1) Film Media, 47-Lttxmi Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur, 74814 

Insurance Building Film Mediu. 

Sir P. M. Rd. 22-4-75 

Bombay- 1. 


411-48(2) 


P. T. Jani, Shrikrishttna P.T. Jani, Shrikrishna 
Boarding House, Boarding House, 

Room No. 12, Room No. 12, - 
Bombay-4. Bombay-4. 


U 

74815 

Not P.E. 

22-4-74. 


198-12(1) DO Do U 

74816 p.E. 


22-4-74 


U 

395-02(2) M. K. Navandar, Part- M/s. Chitra Bharati 74817 P.E. 

nor, Chitra Bharati, 

759/94 Prabhat Rd, 22-4-74 

Poona-4. 


U 

115-00(1) Filmi Saudagars’ 11- Eibni Saudagats, 11, 74818 

Kshitij Adarsh So- Kshitij Adarsh So — -— 

ciety, Bombay-64 ciety, Bombay-64. 23-4-74 

U 

168-2(1) ARPI Movies (P) Ltd., ARPI Movies (P) Ltd., 74819 P.E. 

519-Loha Bhavan, 519 Loha Bhavan, 

P, D’ mello Road, Bombay-9, 23-4-74 

Bombay-9. 


"Loving Mohter’ (English) 30 -48(1) F. B. Productions. F. B, Productions 
(Colour) (35 mm) 


U 

74820 


23-4-74 


B/71921 


B/71919 

B/71927 


“Trailer of “Choti 91 -50(1) Prasad Productions Prasad Productions U 

Bahan” (Hindi) (P.) Ltd. 810-Bom- (P.) Ltd. 810-Bom- 74821 

(35mm.) bay Market, Terdeo, bay Markot, Tardoo,| 

Bombay-34. Bombay-34. 23-4-74 

U 

“Trailer of Hamarahi" 99 12(1) Do Do 74822 

(Hindi) (35mm.) 

23-4-74 

“Trailer ofSasural” 91-50(1) Do Do U 

(Hindi) (35mm.) 74823 j 


23-4-74 


2217 


Part in— Sec, 4]THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


B/71920 


B/71843 


B/71938 


"Trailor of Bcti Bcte” 
(Hindi) (35mm.) 


“Trailer of Pugh" 
(Hindi) (Col.) (35mm.) 


97 '60(1) Prasad Productions Prasad Productions U 

(P.) Ltd., 810-Bombay (P.) I.td, 810 Bombay 74824 
Market, Turdeo, Market, Tuideo, — — — — 
Bombay-34. Bombay-34. 23-4-74 


84-59(1) S, Kamrud lin. 


Aslia Art International. 


74825 With trningle mark 


24-4-74 

Endorsement : 

Original Length : 89 -92 m. 

Reduce drastically tho impact of violoncc. — 5 -33 m. (Length retained t 17 -07 m.) 

Actual length oj the film after the aforesaid delirious will be : f4 -59 m. 

“Indian News Review 301-00(1) r ilms Division, Go\t. Films Division, Govt. U 
No, 1332” (Eastorn of India, 24-Peddar or India, 24, Peddar 74826 

F.dition) (35mm.) Road, Biiinhay-26. Road, Bombay-26. — — — - — 


(Valid Tor English’ 
Hindi, Bengali 
Assam Oso & Oriya 
versions). 


B/71937 “Indian Nows Rovicw 
No. 1332” (35mm.) 
(12 versions) 


238-00(1) 


(Valid for English!, 

24-4-74 Hindi, Marath, 

Gujarati, Tamil, 
Telugli, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Punjabi, 
Kashmiri, Urdu & 
Sindhi versions). 


R/71949 '‘Maharashtra News 
No. 263.” (Marathi & 
Hindi) (35mm.) 


B/71875 “John” (English) 
(16mm.) (U.K.) 


B/71876 "Jane” (Scenes ) (En- 
glish) (16mm.) 


B/71874 “A Two Year Old 
Goes to Hospital” 
(English) (16mm.) 
(U.K.) 


B/71862 “Chemical Families" 
(English) (16mm.) 
(U.S.A ) 


B/71863 "Gases And How 
They Combine" (En- 
glish) (16mm.) (USA) 


B/71864 “Gas Prossruo And 
Molocular Collisions” 
(English) (16mm.) 
(USA..) 


B/71865 “Chemical Bonding” 
(English) (16mni.) 
(USA.) 


B/71868 “The Hydrogen Atom 
As Viewed By Quan- 
tum Mechanics” 
(English) (16mm.) 
(USA.) 


297-00(1) The Director General 
of Infornation & 
Public Relation, 
Govt, of Maharashtra. 


487 -00(1) National Education 
& Information Films 


Ltd., Nat-onal House, 
Apollo Bunder, 

Hombay-1 

83 -82(1) Do. 

443-18(1) Do. 

243 -84(1) Do 

243 -84(1) Do. 

231 -65(1) Do. 

182-88(1) Do. 

146-30(1) Do. 


U 

Tho Director General 74828 

of Information & — — 

Public Relation. 24-4-74 

U 

Tavistock Child 74829 P.F 

Development Research 

Unit. 25-4-74 


U 

Do. 74830 P.E. 

25-4-75 

U 

Do. 74831 P.F. 

25-4-74 


TJ 

Davidson Films. 74832 P.E. 

25-4-74 

U 

Do. 74833 P.E. 

25-4-74 


XI 

Educational Services 74834 P.E, 

Incorporated. — — - — ■ 

25-4-74 


U 

Davidson Films. 74835 P.E. 

25-4-74 

U 

Do. 74836 P.E. 

25-4-74 



2213 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/7IS69 

B/71928 

fl/71923 

B/71932 


B/71-807 

B/71669 

B/71970 

B/71951 


B/71674 


"Electric Intel ac- 

tions In Chemistry" 
(English) (16mm.) 

(USA.) 

243 -84(1) 

National Education 
& Tnfoimation Films 
Ltd., National House, 
Apollo Burder, 
Bombay — 1 . 

"Plcturo of Health" 
(English) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

F. B. Productions, 
Film Centre, 68- 
Tardeo Rond, 

Bombay-34. 

“Trailer of Dost” 

(Hindi) (Col.) (35mm) 

89 -00(1) 

Suchitra, 

"Trailer of Khoon Ki 
Kimat” (Hindi) (Co- 
loui) (35mm.) 

85 -34(1) 

Voonu Films, 


U 

Wextor Films. 74837 P,F, 


25-4-74 


U 

F. B. Productions, 74838 

Film Centre, 68 — — 

Tardeo Road, 25^4-74 

Bombay-34. 

U 

Mr. Premnath Man- 74839 

chanda Alias M/s — 

Suchitra . 25-4-74 

U 

Jagdish Sharma. 74840 With triangle mark. 


26-4-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 86 -84 m 

1 . Delete the close shot of two men hitting each othor on thoir faces. — '.0 -83 m 

2. Reduce thj fight by deleting hard hits on the stomach. — 0 -67 m. 

(Deleted Completely). 

Length of deletions : 1 -50 m. 

Actual length if the film after the aforesaid deletions will he ; 85 -34 m. 


“Trailer of Phir Kab 70-15(1) Shri Hari Mehre, 

Milogi’’ (Hindi) (Col- Maiino Drive, 

our) (35mm.) Bombay-2. 


“Portrait of A Hum- 
anist’’ (English) 
(35mm.) 


549 -00(2) Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Peddur 
Road, Bombay-26. 


Shri Hari 
Marine 
Bombay-2. 


Mehre, 

Drive, 


‘Voice of the People” 479-00(2) Do. 

(No Commentary, 

Suaeh dialogues in 
different languages) 

(35mm.) 

“Trailer of AHngan” 84-65(1) Mr. P. P. Javori, 

(Hindi) (Colour) C/o. Jasmine Films. 

(35mm.) Bombay-3. 


Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddrr 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Do. 


Mr. P. P. Javori, C/o. 
Jasmine Films. 
Bombay-3. 


U 

74841 

26-4-74 

U 

74842 

26-4-74 

U 

74843 
26-4-74 


U 

74844 

27-4-74 


With triangle mark. 


Endorsement-. 

Original Length : 88 -39 m. 

1 . Delete the words "Apni godmen utha kar bistar par le jaoonga” as said by the man to the girl.— 2 -45 m. 

2. Delete the underlined word from tho sentence "Haath kya. ah to J ism miltc rehenge” ns said by the boy to the 
gill.— 0-07 m. 

3. Delete the shot of the boy unzipping the dross of tho girl,— 1 -22 m. 

Length of deletions : 3 -74 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 84 -65 m. 

U 

"Khoon Ki Kimat” 3630-68(15) Voenn Films, A-20, Jagdish Sharma, Vcena 74845 With triangle mark, 

(Hindi) (Colour) North Bombay Hous- Films, Bombay-54. 

(35mm.) ing Society, Juhu- 27-4-74 

Snntacruz, Bombay-54. 


Endorsement: 

Original Length : 3739 -01 m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. II : Ddete (he underlined words from the dialogue of the driver addressed to Deepnk:— 

(0 “Is main tcra danda phad leta hoon” — 3 -33/m. 

(it) "Oh, bavji, pehlo angootha Is tar ah dikhake meri gaddi mein baitthha ode bad ungli kar dl 
mcri jcb mein aur battwa nikal liya," — 2 -09 m. 

2. IV : From tho picturisation of the song beginning with the words, “aari oh champa Chameli....” 

delete the shot in which a girl dressed as a male, kisses anolhei girl on the cheek,. — 0 -45 m. 

3. V : Reduce tho gun battle between Deepak and the hirelings of the Tahkur.— 5 -18 m. 

(Length retained : 13-10 m.) 

4. V : Delete the dialogue of Hakim addressed to Chanda : “Kisne marrf, kab maari, kahan maari”—- 

4 -05 m. 



Part III— Sec. 4Q THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 22l£ 

*r TY « I I ' ' 1 1. - *—- L-T ■ I-*-" T-^- ■ — - - -- ' . - — I -TT.-I l -T 1 itV'IT'— I ■ , 


1 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/71927 


B/71800 


B/71636 


B/71815 


B/71915 


B/71971 


Cut Reel 
No No 

5. VIII : Delete the following lines from the song beginning with the words "Idharaa, let ja. .. . 

O') Aaj theek karoonga tore mijaj ko, chunari utar kc” (Deleted sound only) (Replaced with 
approved words) 

(//) Boy : “Paanv dlieele chhod de " 

Girl : “Kya? ” 

Boy : "Mukhde ko mode de,.” 

Girl : “Hut muve" 

Boy : nv dheele chhodde, mukhdc ko mode de”. . . . Ankhiyon ko band kar donon oath 

chhid de, idhar palat ja, palai- issc lipat ja, llpat, jahin waqt hai aur seemat ja ” 

( Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved words) 

6. IX : Reduce the scene of Deepak beating Thakur’s man by deleting hard hitting shots, —2 -70 m. 

( Length retained : 1 '83 m.) 

7. XI : Delete reference by Thakur claiming himself a crooked Rajput. — 1 -29 m. 

8. XII : Delete reference to Billo in the dialogue of Hargun while describing her in the context of Mujra : 

“Gaanv ki kori karari kunwari ” etc.— 1 '74 m. 

9. XIV : From these reels reduce the fights, shootings, killings and torture, deleting all gruesome shots 

(including the shots in which Deepak is shown being dragged by the buggy while he holds on to it). 
— 87-50 :m. 


(Length retained in Reel 14 : 46 02 m.) 

(Length rotajned In Reel 15:7 -32 m.) 

Length of deletions : 108 -33 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3630 '68 m. in 15 Reels. 


“Tandurusti Ki Taal" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


“No Other Choice” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


“A conversation with 
Vice President Gerald 


R. Ford” (English) 
^Colour) (l 6mm.) 


15 -24(1) 


Sohrab Boga, M/s 
Nishan Motion Pic- 
tures, Vasant Vihar, 
8-Carmichael Road, 
Bombay-26. 


Sohrab Boga, M/s 
Nishan Motion Pic- 
tures, Vasant Vihar, 
8-Carmlchael Road, 
Bombay-26. 


29 -87(1) M/s Television Radio M/s Television Radio 
& Motion Pictures, & Motion Pictures, 

6-A Rashmi Car- 6-A Rashmi Car- 
michael Road, michacl Road, 

Bombay-26. Bombay-26, 


438-61(1) United States Infor- U. S. Information 
mation Service, 4- Agency. 

New Marine Lines, 

Bombay-20, 


U 

74846 


27-4-74 


U 

74847 


27-4-74 


U 

74848 Not P.E, 


27-4-74 


“Vision USA 20” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USA.) 


"O.K. Camera” (En- 
glish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 


“People of tho Seal: 
Eskimo Summer" 


(Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 


273 -41(1) 


Do. Thokas Craven. 


U 

74849 P.E. 


27-4-74 

U 

312 -00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74850 P.E. 
mision, Shanti Path, of Canada, Govt, of — - 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada. 27-4-74 

Delhi-21. 

U 

586-00(2) Do. Do. 74851 P.E. 


27-4-74 


Endorsement wider Rule 34 : 

B/71907-12 

Film: “Flowers All Day” (English) (Colour) 
U-Cert. No. 74663 of 25-3-1974. 


This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Hindi and Assamese versions of tho 
film in colour. 


The length of tho film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 23rd April, 1974, 

B/71947 

Film: “Towards A New Life” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74815 of 22-4-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for English version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 24th April, 1974, 


11—369 GI/75 




zm_ 

"”r 


C/8006 

C/8009 

C./8010 

C/8012 

C/8013 

C/8011 

C/8008 

M/8515 

M/8374 & 
8375 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part HI— .Sec 4 


fl/7 1939-42 

Film : “The TcU Tale Bito” (English) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74361 of 14-2-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Oriya, Marathi, Bengali and Hindi versions of the film in colour. The length of 
the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 24th April, 1974. 

B/71670-71896 

Film: ‘‘Kal Aaj Aur Kal" (Gujarati) 

U-Cert. No 74688 of 29-3-1974. 

Added various shots : 7 -62 in. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 243 ■ 84 m. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi varsion of the film. The length of the film remains unchanged, 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th April, 1974. 


B/73573 

Film : “Bazar Band Karo" (Hindi) 

U-Cert, No. 74672 of 25-3-1974. 

Reel 14 : Deleted shot 3 ’96 m, 

Actual length of the film after the afore, said deletions will be : 3664 -30 m. m 15 Reels. 
This certificate was endorsed on 26th April, 1974. 


CALCUTTA 


Black Money (Assa- 3,560-37(14) Nataraj Kalakendra, Achyut Lahakar. 
mese) (35mm.) (India) P. O. Path as ala, 

Kamrup, Assam. 


U 

73413 


23-4-74 


E Muthi Chaular 594-56(2) 
Kahini (Assamese) 

(35mm.) (India) 


Bhupen Hazarlka, Bhupen Hazarika. 
77B, Golf Club Road, 

Cal. -33. 


U 

73414 


23-4-74 


Fuleshwari (Bengali) 3,533 -54(13) Radharani Pictures, 169 Kartick Burman. 
(35mm.) (India). C, Park Street, Cal. -17. 


U 

73415 


23-4-74 


Paschim Banga Sar- 
karer Sambad Chitxa 
No. 56 (Bengali) 
(35mm. ) (India). 


U 

352 -35(1) Bibhuti Roy, 5/1 F, Keya- Dept, of Information 73416 

tala Road Cal. -29. & Pub. Relations, 

Govt, of WoSt Bengal, 24-4-74 
Calcutta. 


Bishesh Sangbad 
Chitra (Bengali) 
(35mm.) (India). 


187-45(1) 


U 

Do. Directorate of Public 73417 

Relations & Tourism, — 

Govt, of Tripura, 24-4-74 

Agratala. 


Orissar Mukhya Gha- 300 -00(1) 
tanabali No. 105 
(Oriya) (35mm.) 

(India.) 


U 

Films Officer, Home Home (Public Rela- 73418 

(P. R.)Dept., Govt, tions) Dept,, Govt. . 

of Orissa of Orissa. 27-4-74 


No Need To Hide 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm. (USA.) 


U 

70 -00(1) Rev. D. Mark Buntain. Gospel Films Inc. USA. 73419 P.E. 

Assembly God ■ — — 

Church, 18, Royd Street, 27-4-74 

Cal.-16. 


MADRAS 


‘Baluveninagagi" (Kan- 
nada) (35mm.) (B & 
W). (India.) 


‘Story of Teak’ 

S talayalam & Eng- 
h) (35mm.) (Colour) 
andia.) 


3962-40(16) 

Sunshine 

Pictures, 

Shri Joseph 

V. D, 

Sagar, Karnataka, 

Zouza, 

Karnataka. 

Sagar, 

457 -20(2) 

Deepthi 

Madras, 

Films, 

Deepthi 

Madras. 

Film*, 


U 

67531 
22-4-74 

U 

67532 P.E. 
22-4-74 


Part III— Sgp, 4 \ THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2221 



1 2 3 4 5 6-7 


M/8543 


M/8545 


‘Ghumasthavin Maghal, 
(Tamil) (35mm.) (B& 
W.) (India.) 


‘Mugguru Ammayilu’ 
(Telugu) (35mm ) 
(B & W.) (India.) 


4111 '47(16) C. N. V. Movies, 
Madras, 


4451 '61(16) Nava Bharat Art 
Films, Madras. 


C. N. V. Movies, 
Madras. 


Nava Bharat Films, 
Madras. 


U 

67533 

23-4-74 

U 

67534 

24-4-74 


With cuts 


Endouement on Cert. No, 67534-U, dt. 24th Apiil 1974 issued to film ‘Mugguru Ammayilu’ (Telugu) 35mm 
B & W, 

Length applied'. 4458-30 M. 

Cuts — Met i t'i. 

1, Reel 12 - — Delete the words ‘Tulasi Theertham’ from the dialogue of a custo- 

mer ..... 5 48 

2, Reel 13 — Delete the words “Mundu Fvaru" from the dialogue of Raja 

(Replaced approved word :0-60) . . , , , 0 60 

3, Reel 1 5 - — Delete the reference to Indirama from the dialogue of Uncle of 

Sobha 1 '21 


Total. 7 -29 


Replacement approved : 0 60 m. 

Actual length will he : 4451 -61 m. In 16 Reels. 


M/8548 


U 

‘Doctoramma’ (Tamil) 3658 -20(14) Meenakshi Art Meenakshi Art Prodns, 67535 With cuts 

(35mm.) (B&W) (India Productions, Madras Madras. — 

25-4-74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67535-U, dt. 25-4-74 issued to the film ‘Doctoramma’ (Tamil) 35mm. B&W. 

r . J HI O y-rt A 1 # 


Length applied-. 3691 -50 M. 

Cuts — Metres 

1. Reel 3 — Delete words of the woman in charge of brothel : “Pendatlina 

AraiChappadu— Idhu Muzhu Chappadu” . 4 25 

2. Reel 12 & 14 — Delete details of surgical opeiation — shown in close-shots . 29-25 

Total. 33 -50 


M/8540, 49 
&51 


Actual length of the film will be: 3658 -20 m. m. in 14 Reels. 


‘Aatrum Marundhu’ 30-48(1) Film Media, Bombay. Shri Jyoti G. Thakur, 
(Tamil, Telugu, Bombay. — 

Kannada & Malaya- 
lam) (35mm.) (B &W) 

(India.) 


U 

67536 

26-4-74 

U 


M/8541 


’Alakal’ (Malayalam) 
(35mm.) (B & W.) 
(India.) 


3307 -12(14) Meiry Films Corpn., 
Madras, 


Merry Films Corpn., 
Madras. 


67537 

26-4-75 


With cuts. 


Endorsement on Cert. No, 67537-U, dt. 26-4-74 issued to the film ’Alakal’ (Malayalam) 35mm. B&W. 
Length applied : 3335-42 M. 

Cuts . — ‘ ‘ Metres. 

1. Reel 2 — Delete Bhasi running without dhoti ..... 0 -60 

2. Reel 6 — Reduce fight between Rajesh and Raghu to 1/3 its present length, 

eliminating all actions shown in close-shot . . . . 4-26 

3. Reel 9^ Delete (a) acton of Bhasi disrobing the cabaret dancer; (b) the 

belly movement (the first action after stripping the outer-cloth); 

(c) her shedding the out-garment; (d) the first shot in bikini (All 
shots of the dancer in silhouette, except those shown in close-shot 
of abdomen and upper half of body may bo retained) . 19-20 

4. Reel 12 — Delete molestation shown in flash-back (Raghu entering Gectha’s 

chamber, up to his switching offlight may be retained) 0-60 

5. Reel 14— Reduce Rajesh giving punches on Raghu, to a flash . 3-64 


28 -30 


Actual length of the film will be: 3307 -12 m. in 14 Reels. 


Total 



2222 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 





T 1 





1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


M/8555 

Trailer of ’Poonthen- 
aruvi’ (Malayalam) 
(35mm.) (B, & W.) 

(India.) 

97 -53(1) 

M. S. Productions, 
Madras. 

M. S, Productions, 

U 

67538 







26-4-74 




M85f2 & 
M/8553 


‘Cauvery Comes to 
Bangalore" (English 
& Kannada) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(India.) 


U 

426 '72(2) Karnataka Film Deve- Karnataka Film De- 67539 

lopment Corpn. Ltd., velopment Corpn. Ltd. 

Karnataka. Karanataka. 26-4-74 


M/8556 


‘Poonthenaruvi’ (Ma- 
layalam) (35mm.) 
(B & W.) (India.) 


3957 -98(14) M. S. Productions, 
Madras. 


M. S. 
Madras. 


U 

Productions, 67540 


27-4-74 


With cuts. 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67540-U, dt, 27-4-74 issued to the film ‘Poonthenaruvi’ (Malayalam) 35mm. B & W. 
Length applied : 3967 -27 M. 


Cuts . — Metres. 

1 . Reel 2 — -Delete the action of Mathai lifting dhoti and scratching, (Replaced : 

0 -30) 4 00 

2. Reel 13 — Delete Shaji and Virualu, rolling over each other on the seashore 

Actual length of the film will be 3957 *98 M. In 14 Reels. 2-00 


Total. 6-00 


M/8561 


M/8547 


’Sneha Smaranaikku’ 
(Malayalam) (35mm.) 
(B & W.) (India.) 


358-14(1) M. S. Productions, 
Madras. 


M. S. Productions, 
Madras. 


U 

67541 


27-4-74 


‘Neelakkannukal’ (Ma- 
layalam) (35mm.) 
(B & W.) (India) 


U 

3928-92(16) K. P. A. C. Films, K. P. A. C. Films, 67542 With cuts. 

Trivandrum. Trivandrum. — — 

27-4-74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67542-U, dt. 27-4-74 issued to the film ‘Neelakkannukal’ (Malayalam) 35 mm. B&W . 
Length applied; 3956-30 M. 

Cuts.— Metres 

1. Reel 7— Delete words of estate owner’s companions “Everything is over, 

you may try to get fre ones”. , . , ... 

2. Reel 1 5 — Delete suggestion of Kunhiraman being tortured in police station, 

and the police inspector taking orders from the estate owner. 

(Sound only removed for torturing suggestion) . , , 

3. Reel 16 — Reduce assault and molestation by estate owner on Malu. (Re- 

tained; 9 -74) 

4. Reel 16 — Reduce Kunhiraman’s action of strangling the estate owner to a 

flash. (Retained,) 


Actual length will be: 3928 -92 In 16 Reels. 


Total 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2223 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 4TH MAY, 1974 


BOMBAY 


B/71759 


[ Scienco Report 149 152 '70(1) 

B” (English) 

(16 mm.) (USA). 


United States Informa- Robert Foster, 
tion Sorvicc, 4-Now 
Marino Lines, Bom- 
bay-20. 


U 

74852 

— P.E. 

29-4-74 


B/71975 


“Freedom To Learn" 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(USA.) 


209 '70(1) National Educational & United Film Services. 
Information Films 
Ltd. 


U 

74853 

- - ■ ■ P.E. 
29-4-74 


U 

B/71807 "Us-Paar" (Hindi) 3411 -62(1 3) Basu Chatterji, Cineye Basil Chattcrjl, Bom- 74854 

(Colour) (35 mm.) Films, 65/1803, Ad- bay-25. 

arsha Nagar, Prabha- 29-4-74 

devl, Bombay-25. 


B/71776-7 


U 

“The Oasis” (English) 30-48(1) Keith Allnms, M/s. Keith Allams. Bom- 74855 

(Colour) (35 mm.) KAPPA, 1/A Monisha bay-50. ■ 

St„ Andrew's Road, 29-4-74 

Bandra, Bombay-50. 


B/71929 


"The Pearly Yeats” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (Canada) 


U 

113-00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74856 

mission, ShantiPath, of Canada, Govt, of — — Not P.E. 

Chankyapuri, New Canada. 29-4-74 

Dolhi-21 . 


D/71935 “Don’t Knock the Ox" 153-00(1) Do. 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (Canada) 


U 

Do. 74857 

— Not P.E. 

29-4-74 


B/71936 "Challenge for the 308 -00(1) Do. 

Church" (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 

(Canada) 


Do. 


U 

74858 

- Not P.E, 

29-4-74 


B/71935 "L’Homme Novoau” 119-00(1) Do. 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm) (Canada) 


U 

Do 74859 

Not P.E. 

29-4-74 


B/71934 "People of the Seal: 585 00(2) Do. 

Eskimo Winter” 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (Canada) 


U 

Do. 74860 

— P.E. 

29-4-74 


B/71265 


"Rumours" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 


U 

260-60(1) Prem Paul, Mooivta K- Ranjcet Singh, 120- 74861 

30-B, Kalkali New Mahheji Park, Delhi-18 P.E. 

Delhi. 30-4-74 


B/71461 "Imtihan” (Hindi) 3991 -39(15) B. A. Chandiramani, B. A. Chandiramani, 74862 

(Colour) (35 mm.) Producer, New Arts Bombay-1. With triangle mark 

Pictures, 59, Dr. V. B. 30-4-1974 

Gandhi Marg., Fort 
Bombay-1 , 


2224 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Past IH— Sic. 4 




— 

— — . — — 

H-.™ ■ ■ ' ""LL- 



‘ ' " l " ““ 

(1) 

(2) 


(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(6) 


B/71021 

B/70321-34 

B/71872 

B/71762 

33/71 866 

B/71867 

B/71870 

B/71871 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 


4046 -76 tn. 


1 . 

2 . 

3. 


5. 

6 . 

7. 


I : In the Introductory sequence establishing a college, delete close 
shot of picture of a couple kissing on the back of a student and 
its repetitions ......... 

I : Delete tho shot of a student caressing bosom of a girl under a 

tree in tho college premises ...... 

I : Delete tho underlined words from the following dialogue of 

Rakesh adressed to a girl : 

‘‘Main ladakiyon ko upar haath nahi uthata hoon, jab uthata 
hun to kahan pahunch kar rukata hai ye baaki ladakiyon ko 
puchcho’’ 

IV Reduce the scene of Rakesh hitting the students and their thalis 

when tho students return after making complaint to the professor 
a bout tho quality of food. Delete the shots of food and dal being 
poured over a student who had complained. Reduce consider- 
ably tho free for-a 11 between two gangs of students, deleting hard 

hitting shots 

(Length retained : 63 '91 m.) 

Delete the scene of a studont threatening the invigilator with a 
knife. 

(There is, however, no objection to the scene of knife already 
struck on to the tabic) 

Reduce the fight botwoen Prof. Sharma and gang of Rakesh ■ 
(Length retained : 76-16 m.) 

General : Delete shots of student indiscipline wherever it is excessive and 
unrealistic 


VI 


XIV 


Volunterily deleted 

Reel IX : 18 -05 m. 

VII : l 00 m. 

XI : 0 '61 m. 

Length of cuts : 35 -71 m. 

Length of voluntary deletions : 19 66 m. 
Actual length of the film after tho aforesaid 
deletions will be ;'3991 -39 m. in 15 Reels. 


Meters 


1 -20 
3-35 


0 ‘61 


1311 


3 04 
3 -65 

10-75 


“Phool Na Jana” 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 


“Hot Winds of Free- 
dom” (16 mm.) (Col.) 


“Electro Chemical 
Cells” (English) 
(16 mm,) 

“Shapes And Polaritios 
of Molecules” (Engli- 
sh) (16 mm.) (USA.) 

“Introduction To Re- 
action Knetics” 
(English) (1 6 mm.) 
(USA.) 


"Molecular Motions” 
(English) (1 6 mm.) 
(USA.) 


“Ionization Energy" 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(USA.) 


“Equilibrium” (Eng.) 
(16 mm.) (USA.) 


Refusal of 
Certificate 


1-5-74 

Refusal of (Valid for Hindi, 
Certificate English, Marathi, 

1 Gujarati, Bengali, 

1-5-74 Tamil, Talugu, Ma- 
layalam versions.) 

U 


256 -03(1) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd. 

Chemical Education 
Material Study. 

74863 

P.E. 


1-5-74 

219 -46(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74864 

P.E. 




1-5-74 

153 -62(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74865 

P.E. 




1-5-74 

144-78(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74866 

P.E. 




1-5-74 

268 -22(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74867 

P.E. 




1-5-74 

280 -42(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

74868 



M/s Intcrgrity Interna- 
tional, 66-Ali Cham- 
bers, Tamarind Lane, 
Fort, Bombay-400001. 

The USSR Consulate 
General in Bombay, 
Bhaveshwar Sugar, 
1st Floor, 20 Jag- 
mohandas Marg, 
Bombay-400036. 


1-5-74 P.E. 



Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2225 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

B/72007 

"Mahiti Chitra No. 
182” (Gujarati) 

(35 mm.) 

146 '30(1) 

Liaison Officer, Govt, 
of Gujarat 

Dir. of Information, 
Govt, of Gujarat, 
Gandhinagar. 

U 

74869 

1-5-74 


B/72027 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1333" (Southern 
Edition) (35 mm.) 

303 -58(1) 

Films Division Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

U 

74870 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, Te- 
lugu, Kannada, & 
Malayalam versions) 



1-5-74 

B/72028 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1333" (35 mm) 

193 85(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

u 

74871 

(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 

Gujarati, Assamese 
Orfya, Punjabi, Ben- 
gali, Kashmiri, and 
Urdu version .) 





1-5-74 

B/72029 

“Chhatrapati Shivaji” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) 

539 -00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74872 

P.E. 





-1-5-74 

B/71961 

"The Athletes” (Ben- 
gali) (Colour) (16 
mm.) (Australia) 

270 -00(1) 

Australian High Com- 
mission. Now Delhi. 

Australian Comman- 
woalth Film Unit. 

U 

74873 

P.E. 



4-5-74 

B/71962 

“Our Land Australia” 
(Bon gall) (Colour) 
(1 6 mm.) (Australia) 

120 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74874 

P.E. 





4-5-74 

B/71963 

“Sports Medicine” 

(Bengali) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (Australia) 

304 'OOd) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74875 

P.E. 





4-5-74 

B/7I945 

“Australian Report” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (Australia) 

243 '8(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74876 

P.E. 





4-5-74 

B/71918 

“Nitrogen Fixation by 
Legumes” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Australia) 

182-8(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74877 

P.E. 





4-5-74 

B/71971 

"Escape From the 
Sea” (EngUsh) (16 
mm.) (UK.) 

614-78(6) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd. 

WaUace Productions 
Ltd. 

U 

74878 

P.E. 



4-5-74 

B/71992 

"Kadoyng" (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(UK.) 

698 -90(6) 

Do. 

Roy Simpson. 

U 

74879 

P.E. 





4-5-74 

B/71878 

“Kora Kagaz" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

3649 -67(14) 

Sanat Kothari, 12-A 
Moti Mansion, 3rd 
Floor, 5th Khetwadi 
Lane, Bombay-4. 

Sanat Kothari, 12-A 
Moti Mansion, 3rd 
Floor, 5th Khetwadi 
Lane, Bombay-4. 

u 

74S80 




4-5-74 


B/71022 

"Shatranj-Ke-Mohre” 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm.) 

3620 -74(14) 

Ashok Chandra, “Re- 
mbrandt” 20-Pa lli Hill, 
Bombay-50. 

Shri Ashok Chandra. 

A 

3223 

With triangle mark. 




1-5-74 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 3624 -44 m. 

Cut. Reel 

No. No. Meters 


1. II : Delete the following dialogue of Suraj addresed to Manmohan : 

“Saala gaadi chalata hai ya apni maa ko nachaata hai”? • 1 10 

2. IV : Delete the following dialogue of Rajan addressed to Manmohan: 

“My dear, Kisan tarjube kaar hona chaahiye kachhi pakki har 
zameen hai ke ishaare par naachtl hai”. • • ■ 2-60 

Length of deletions : 3-70 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3620 -74 



2226 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 • 








(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

((5) (6) 

(7) 


Endorsement Under Rule : 34 
B/71877 

Film “Phir Kab Milogi" (Hindi) 

U-Cert, No. 74809 of 204-1974 

Reel VI : Deleted various shots : 45 '00 m 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid doletlons will be - 3833 -90 rn in 15 reels. 

This certificate was emdorsed on 29th April, 1974. 

B/71643 

Film ; “Alingan” (Hindi) (35 mm.) (Colour) Metres 

U-Cert. No. 74676 of 27-3-1974. 

Reel No. 9: Added various shots 62-18 

13: Added various shots : 59-13 

Length of additions : 121-31 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be • 4157-17 

This certificate was endorsed on 2nd May 1974. 

CALCUTTA 

NIL 

MADRAS 


M/8572 Tamilnadu Govt. Re- 305 00(1) The Directorate of In- The Directorate of I n- 67543 

glorial News Bulletin formation & Public formation & Public 

No. 115 (Tamil) 35 Relations, Madras. Relations, Madras. 29-4-74 

mm. B & w. India. 

U 

M/8560 ‘Chavi Match’ (Tamil) 41 -13(1) Sri Vijaya Publicities, Sri Vfiaya Publicities, 67544 

(Colour) 35 mm. Madras. Madras. 

India 2-5-74 


M/8559 ‘Yoh Chor Yoh Luterc’ 3724-34(15) G. P. Films, Madras, G. P. Films, Madras. 67545 

(Hindi) 35 mm. B & — 

W. India. 3-5-74 

PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 11TH MAY, 1974 

BOMBAY 


B/71924 


"Kapas Ki Uttam 128-63(1) Film Media, 47-Laxml Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur. 


Phasal Ka Rahasya” 
(Marathi) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) 


Insurance Bldg., Bom- 
bay-1. 


B/71933 


"Ungrateful Land" 307 -00(1) Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74882 


(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (Canada) 


mission, Shanti Path, of Canada, Govt, of 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada. 

Delhi-21. 


7-5-74 P.E. 


B/71956 

"Imprerial 

Sunset" 

206-00(1) 


(English) 

(Colour) 



(16 mm) (Canada) 


B/71905 

“Trailer of Us Paar“ 

89 -91(1) 


(Hindi) 

(35 mm.) 

(Colour) 


B/72008 

"Get That 

Man” 

30 -48(1) 


(English) 

(35 ram) 

(Colour) 


B/71958 

“Small 

World” 

343 -70(1) 


(English) 

(Colour) 



(16 mm.) (London) 


B/71976 

“Search Into White 

190 -00(1) 


Space” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Canada) 


Bombay Laboratus 
Bombay. 


resh, United film Arts, ted Film Arts, 
Worli Hill, Bombay, 


Relation Manager, tions Ltd. 
Air India, Bombay-1. 


mission, Shanti Path, of Canada Govt, of 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada. 

Delhi-21. 


Not P.E. 


Part III— Sec. 4f\ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAH A Y ANA 22, 1897) 


2227 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

B/71979 

"Paul Kane Goes 
West” (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Canada) 

113-00(1) 

Canadian High Conimi- National Film Board 
ssion, Shanti Path, of Canada Govt. 
Chanakyapury, New of Canada, 

Delhi-21 

B/71998 

"Wheat" (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(Canada) 

183 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71977 

"Puberty in Boys" 
(English) (Colour) 

(1 6 mm.) (Canada) 

114 00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71955 

“Co rporation-Growth’ ’ 
(English (16 mm.) 
(Canada) 

324 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71757 

“Science Report 149- 
A" (English) (16 
mni ) (USA ) 

151 -79(1) 

United States Informa- 
tion Sorvice, 4-New 
Marine Lines, Boni- 
bay-20 

Robert Foster 

B/72054 

“Indian News Roview 
No 1334” (35 mm) 

167-33(1) 

Films Division, Govt Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26 Road, Bombay-26 

B/72055 

“Indian News Review 
No 1334" (Western 
Edition) (35 mm ) 

240-18(1) 

Do 

Do 

B/72057 

“Mahitlchitrn 

No. 183" Gujratl 
(35 mm.) 

214-37(1) 

Asstt Dir of informa- 
tion, Govt, of Gujarat. 

Dir of information 
Govt, of Gujarat, 

B/71973-7 

"Change” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

30 -48(1) 

S. S. Oberoi, Art Com- 
mercia. 

S. S. Oberoi, Art Com- 
merola. 

B/71931 

“Do Bhai" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 m.m.) 

406-00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/72046 

“Lucknow-My Luc- 
know” (Music only) 
(33 mm.) 

421 -13(2) 

Suresh Nigam, Film 
Prod, Officer, Uttar 
Pradesh Govt., 

Lucknow. 

Suresh Nigam, Film, 
Prod. Officor, Uttar 
Pradesh Govt., 

Lucknow. 

B/72061 

“Then And Now” 
(Quickie) (English) 
(35 mm.) 

31 -00(1) 

Films. Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

B/72026 

“Air” (English) (Col- 
our) (16 mm.) 

(Canada) 

32 -00(1) 

Canadian High Com- 
mision, Shanti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Delhi-21. 

National Film Board 
of Canada Govt, of 
Canada. 

B/72062 

“Indian News Review 
No. 1334 (A)" (Eng- 
lish) (Hindi) (35 mm.) 

288-00(1) 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Poddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 

B/72063 

"Indian Nows Roview 
No. 1334 (B)” (Eng. 
lish & Hindi) (35mm.) 

153-31(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/72065 

"Without Milk" (Eng- 
lish & Hindi) 

(35 mm ) 

«) 

Do. 

Do, 


(6) ‘ ' (7) 


u 

74888 

— — P.E. 
8-5-74 


U 

74889 

■ • - - Not P.E. 
8-5-74 

U 

74890 

— P.E. 

8-5-74 

U 

74891 

— P.E. 

8-5-74 

U 

74892 

— PE 

8-5-74 


U 

74893 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Tamil, Telu- 

8-5-74 gu, Kannada, Mala- 
yalam, Assamese, 
Oriya, Punjabi, 
Bengal, Kashmiri & 
Uidu versions ) 


U 

74894 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi, 

8-5-74 Gujarati, & Sindhi 

versions ) 

U 

74895 


8-5-74 

U 

74896 


8-5-74 

U 

74897 . 


9-5-74 


U 

74898 


9-5-74 


Not P.E. 


U 

74899 

P.E. 

9-5-74 

U 

74900 

P.E. 

9-5-74 


U 

74901 


9-5-74 

U 

74902 


9-5-74 

U 

74903 


9-5-74 


12 — 369GI/75 



2228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER J 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part I— Sec. 4 


(3) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 


(6) 

(7) 

B/72051 

“Trailer of Insaaniyat” 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm) 

85-34(1) 

.1, V. Films Corpora- 
tion, 4-A Ravalpen- 
diwala, Bldg , Tri- 
bhuvan Road, Bom- 
bay-4 

Jagdjsh Varma 
Ravalpendi 
Trlbhuvan 
Bombay-4 

4-A 

Bldg, 

Road, 

U 

74904 




10-5-74 


B/71954 

“Corporation-Bilingua- 
lism" (English) (16 
mm ) (Canada) 

324 00(1) 

Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shanti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Dolhi-21 

National Film Board 

U 

74905 

Not P.E. 



Canada. 


10-5-74 

B/71974 

‘Fomale Cycle" (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16 
mm ) (Canada) 

90-00(1) 

Do 

Do. 


U 

74906 

P.E 






10-5-74 

B/71953 

“Child Behaviour, 

You" (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm ) 
(Canada) 

166 00(1) 

Do 

Do. 


U 

74907 

P.E 






10-5-74 

B/71743 

"Sankalp” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 

3494 -82(14) 

Twinkle Stars, 307- 
Hind Rajasthan 

Bldg,, Bombay-14. 

Twinkle Stars, 
bay- 14. 

Bom- 

U 

74908 

With triangle mark 




10-5-74 


B/71873 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 

3494 '82 m. 


Cut 

Reel 



No. 

No. 


Metres 

1. 

VII : 

Delete the views ol'Ramcsh kissing a hippio giil. (Replaced with 
approved shot : 0 50 m.) 

0-50 

2. 

VIII : 

In the danco sequence in hippies’ don, delete the close views of 
shaking of busts and midriffs by girls and also shots of close 
physical proximity betweon male and female hippies, (Roplacod 
with approved shot : 4 -15 m.) 

4-15 

3. 

IX : 

Delete the woi ds “Member of Parliament" and “Member of 
Assembly" while introducing corrupt men at a party in the 
house of Harkishandas. (Doletod sound only) (Roplaced with 
approved words). 


4. 

XI : 

In tho hippio dance, sequence delete the shots of couplos 
making love either standing or lying on the sand, keeping 
only a few unobjectionable flashes. Dolctc scratching of arm 
for blooding it and also reduce considerably Ramesh sucking 
the blood. (Replaced with approved shols : 6 36 m.) 

6 36 


Length of deletions : 1 1 01 m. 

Length of approved replacement : 11-01 m. 

Length of the film remains unchanged i.e. 3494 -82 m. in 14 reels. 

A 

"The First Day Of 280 00(1) National Educational Les Films du Levant 3224 

Life” (Les Premiers & Information Films P.E. 

Jaurs Do Lavie) (Eng- Ltd. 10-5-74 

liah) (Colour) (16 mm.) 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 : 


B/71859 

Film : “Now Glimpses of Delhi" (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74705, of 29-3-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for English version of the film in oolour, The longth of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 7th May, 1974, 


B/71632 

Film : “When Dream Comes True” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74656 of 25-3-1974 

Reel No. 1 — Deleted various shots : 22 -00 m. 

Reel No. II ; Deleted various shots : 40 -00 m. 

Length of delotions : 62 -00 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 360 00 m in 2 reels. This certificate was 
endorsed on 8th May, 74. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2229 



B/71007 

Flint : “Kahani Hum Subb Ki” (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No, 74158 of 31-12-1973. 

Reel No. 2: Deleted various shots : 8 -53 Mts. 

Reel No. 13: Deleted various shots : 11 -28 Mts, 

Length of delations : 19-81 Mts. 

Actual length of the film after aforesaid deletions will be : 3799 -33 ni. 
This certificate was endorsed on 8th May, 1974, 

B/71643 

Film : "Alingan” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 74676 of 27-3-1974 

Metres 


Reel No. II : Deleted various shots ....... 36-58 

IV : Deleted various shots : 27-73 

V : Deleted various shots . . ' . • - , , 28-96 

VI : Deleted various shots 33-53 

XII : Deleted various shots ....... 20-73 

XIII : Deletd various shots ....... 20-42 

XIV : Deleted various shots , . - ... . • 70-41 

XV : Dieted various shots ...... 48-77 

XVI : Deleted various shots . . . . 45 11 

Length of deletions ; 332 -24 m. 


Actual length of the film after the atorsaid deletions will be : 3824 -93 in. in 16 reels. 


This certificate was endorsed on 9th May 1974. 

B/71600 

Film : "Do Number Ke Ameer” (Hindi) 

A-Cert. No. 3222 of 11-4-1974 

Metres 

Reel No. Ill : Deleted various shots ....... 8 -84 

VI 11 : Deleted various shots 35 -36 

XIII : Deleted various shots , . , 11-89 

XV : Deleted various Shots 13-41 

XVI : Deleted various shots ....... 35-97 

XVII : Deleted various shots 58-52 


Length of deletions : 163 -99 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be ; 3792 -29 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 9th May, 1974. 

B/69853 

FUm : "Aavishkar” (Hindi) 

U-Cort. No. 73532 of 26-9-1973. 

Metres 


Reel No. 11 : Deleted various shots ....... 29-25 

111 : Deleted various shots 1-22 

VI : Deleted various shots 11-58 

VII : Deleted various shots ....... 16-76 

X : Deleted various shots ....... 94-79 

XII : Deleted various shots 3 -66 

Length of deletions : 157 -26 m. 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3083 -38 m. 

This certificate is valid with or without above alteration. This certificate was endorsed on 9th May, 1974 

B/71487 

Film : “Dost” (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert, No. 74746 of 8-4-1974. 

Corrections : 

The name of the applicant may be read as M/s. Suchitra inslcud of Mr. Premnath Manchanda. 

This certificate was endorsed on 10th May, 1974. 



2230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part I— Sec. 4 



5 6 


7 


M/8558 

M/8574 


M/8554 

M/8535 

M/8573 




CALCUTTA 






Nil 

MADRAS 



U 

67546 

‘Naya Din Nai Raat' 
(Hindi) 35 mm. Col. 
India. 

3781 -56(14) 

Jamu Pictures, Madras 

Shri N. P. 
Madras. 

All, 




7-5-74 

‘Chattakkari’ (Mala- 
yalam) 35 mm. 
Colour. India 

3732 -89(15) 

Manjilas Cine Enter- 
prises, Madras. 

Manjilas Cine 
prises, Madras. 

Enter- 

U 

67547 



7-5-74 with Cuts 


Endorsement on cert No. 67547-U dt. 7th May, 1974— issued to the film 'Chattakkari’ (Malayalam) (Colour). 
Length applied : 3733 -80 Metres, 

Cuts. Metres 

1. Reel 1 — Delete the words “Bloody Indians’ wherever it occurs. 

(Sound only). ......... — 

2. Reel 6~Delete the word "Dog” from the expression “Indian dog". 

(Soundonly) ......... 

3. Reel 7- — Delete tho words “Bloody Indians” in the dialogue and 


the word “Dog". 0 -91 

4. Reel 12 —Delete the word “Dog". (Sound only). .... — 

Total : 0 -91 


Actual length of the film will be 3732 -89 Metres in 15 Reels. 
’Gauravam’ (Telugu) 3804-20(15) Anand Movies, Anand Movies, 

(Colour) 35 mm. Madras. Madras. 

India. 


‘Andharu Dongale’ 4222 00(15) Pallavee Productions, Pallavoo Productions, 
(Tolugu) (Colour) Madras. Madras. 

35 mm. India. 


‘Bhatti Vikranmditya’ 4433 -61(16) Shri Ram Films, Ban- Shri Ram Films, Ban- 
(Kannada) 35 mm. galore. galore. 

B & W. India. 


U 

67548 

10-5-74 

U 

67549 

10-5-74 

U 

67550 

10-5-74 


Particulars of films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Censors During the Week ending the 18t/i May 1975 

BOMBAY 


B/72049 


B/72067 

B/71980 


B/72086 


B/72087 


BJ72056 


"Textiles of India” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 

"Trailer of Kora 
Kagaz" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

“Trailer of Bazaar 
Band Karo" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

“Indian Nows Re- 
view No. 1335" 
(Northern Edition) 
(35mm.) 


"Indian News Re- 
view No. 1333" 
(35mm.) , 


"Trailer of Inter- 
national Crook” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


331 -01 

(0 


76-50 

( 1 ) 


98 -46 

( 1 ) 


300 -00 

( 1 ) 


200 -00 

(0 


80-78 

( 1 ) 


U 

B, R. Films, Andand B. R. Films, Andand 74909 

Villa, 15th Road, Villa, 15th Road, 

Bombay-54. Bombay-54. 13-5-74 


Shreeji Films, Air 
Conditioned 
Market, Bombay-34 

S. Kamruddin, 
Bombay, 


Films Division, 

Govt. of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 


U 

Sanat Kothari. 74910 


13-5-74 

U 

B. R. I. Arts 74911 

Universal. — ■ - 

13-5-74 

U 

Films Divisions, 74912 

Govt, of India, 

24-Peddar Road, 14-5-74 

Bombay-26. 


(Valid for English 
Hindi, Kashi- 
miri, Punjabi 
& Urdu, ver- 
sions.) 


U 

Do. Do. 74913 


14-5-74 


U 

P. S. Pictures, 205- P. S. Pictures, 205- 74914 

Famous Cine Bldg. Famous Cine Bldg, 

Bombay. Bombay. 14-5-74 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi 

Gujarati, Tamil, 
Tolugu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Assa- 
mese, Oriya & 
Bengal versions) 

With tiiangle 

mark 





Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2231 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


Endorsement 

Original Length : 82 -0001. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

I I : Reduce considerably the impact of violence : 1 -22 m. 

(Deleted complitely) 

Length of deletions : 1 -22m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be 80 '78 in. 


B/72006 

"Symphony” (Eng- 

lish) (35mra.) 

90 -00 
(1) 

B/71972 

“The Limits to 

Growth" (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

331 -93 
(1) 

B/72047 

“Challenge For 

Change" (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (USA) , 

318 '82 
(1) 

B/72048 

“Vision USA 23” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USA). 

268 -83 
(1) 

B/71960 

“The Kangaroos- 

Part-II Varieties” 
(Bengali) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Australia) 

120 00 
0) 

B/71959 

"The Kangaroos 

Part-I Biography” 
(Bengali) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Australia) 

120-00 

(1) 

B/72095 

“The Price you Pay” 
(English) (35mm.) 

79-55 

(1) 

B/72099 

"A Few more Ques- 
tions" (Hindi) 

(35mm.) 

398-15 

(1) 

B/71952 

“Cry of The Wild” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) 

1026 -00 
(3) 

B/8544 

“Maha Bhakta 
Tukaram" 

(Marathi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Madras) 

4356 '21 
(D) 

B/71812 

"Insaaniyat” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

3821 -89 
(15) 


U 

Madhusudan Kumar, Madhusudan Kumar, 74915 

62-Geetanjali, Bombay-5. 

Colaba, Bombay-5. 14-5-74 

U 

United States In- U. S. Information, 74916 

formation Service, Agency. 

4-New Marin Lines, 14-5-74 

Bombay-20. 

U 

Do. George R. Pitt/ 74917 

A.H. Perlmultor. 

14-5-74 

U 

Do. Thomas Craven. 74918 


14-5-74 

U 

Australian High Australian Com- 74919 

Commission. monwealth Film — — ■ 

Unit. 14-5-74 

U 

Do. Do. 74920 


14-5-74 

U 

Films Division, Films Division, 74921 

Govt, of India, Govt. of India, — 


24-Peddar Road, 24-Peddar Road, 14-5-74 
Bombay-26. Bombay-26. 

U 

Do. Do. 74922 


14-5-74 

U 

Canadian High Com- National Film Board 74923 

mission, Shanti of Canada, — 

Path, Chankya- 16-5-74 

puri, New Delhi-21. 

U 

M/s, Anjali Com- M/s. Anjali Pictures, 74924 

bines, 2, Pughs Combine. 

Road, Madras-28. 16-5-74 

U 

Jagdish Varma, J.V. Jagdish Varma, J.V, 74925 

Films, Corporation, Films Corporation, 

4-A, Ravalpindi- 4- A, Ravalpindi- 16-5-74 

wala Bldg., wala Bldg., 

Bombay-4. Bombay-4. 


Endorsement 

Original Length ; 3864 -24m. 

Cut Red 

No. No. Metres 

1. I : * Reduce tho shots of a teacher beating a young student with cane to only 

two times. ■ 2 44. 

(Length retained : 1 -52m.) 


P.E. 

P.E. 


Not P.E. 


P.E. 

P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E, 


P.E. 


P.E. 


With 

mark. 


2 . 

3 . 


II : ( a ) Delete the shots of magazine cover with a nude photograph. . . 3 '35. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 3 -35m.) 

(6) Delete reference to “Shaikh Abdulla” 3 '96m. 

IV : Delete tho word "Bastard" uttered by Lina to Dilip (indisguiso of Ab- 
dulla) who is sitting on the tree top. (Sound) 


triangle 


2232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAY ANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(l) 


B/71849 


B/72053 

B/72064 


B/72021 


B/72019 


(2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


4. 

5. 

6 . 


V : During the song "Main tumsc pyar karta hoon”, delete the impression of 

Leena kissing Dilip. .......... 1 '22m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : t -22m.) 

VI : (a) Delete the view of Raghuvir killing ajail warder near the gate. 7 -62m. 

(/>) In the scenes of killing of children by Raghuvir delete all the symbolic 

shots except the first shot. ........ 3 '04m. 

VII : Delete both the views of Michael Parrora’s mouth with blood oozing out 

after he is killed in the accident . ....... 3 '35m. 


7. IX : * Reduce the shot of Raghuvir dying and also the impact of killing of children 

shown in flash back when Raghuvir recollects them while dying. . 12 '19m. 

(Length retained : 7 -62m.) 

8. Xll : Delete the view, of Leena kissing Dilip on the cheek. . . . .0 -61m. 

9. XIII : Dilip and Ram are imprisoned for alleged murder of Rughuvir but they 

are taken in Police Jeep without hand cuffs and allowed to escape. This 
noeds to be modified, otherwise it presents a poor picture of the ad- 
ministrators of Law. . . ... . . . . .7 -62m, 

( Deleted ) (Modified : 3 -66m.) 

10. XIV &* Reduce the view of Sandow being trampled by an elephant to a flash ■ 1 -22m. 

(Length retained ; 0'6Im.) 


XV * Reduce the impact of fight at the end by reducing sound effects of shrieks, 

close punches, blood on face etc. .3 '96m. 

(Length retained ; 24 '08m.) 

Length of deletions : 50 -58m. 

Length of replacement and additions 8 -23m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 3821 -89 m. 

In 1 5 reels. 


“Hanuman Vijay 3877 -67 
Yane Jai Shri (14) 
Ram” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 


Basant Pictures, Basant Pictures, 

136-Chamarbaug Bombay-12. 

Road, Parel, Bom- 
bay-12. 


U 

74926 

With triangle 

17-5-74 mark. 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3883 ■ 16m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. Ill : Delete the words "Kya hoga— wahi. .jo hota aya hai wohi hoga" as said 

by Sahi in the disguise of a girl while taking the fat man to bod. (De- 
leted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound) 

2. V : Delete the underlined words from the dialogue ‘‘Maaf kee jiye — Neeche 

khujla diya" as spoken by Sahi to Ahi Ravan while massaging his legs. 
(Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound) 


3 V : Reduce the torture of Chandrosena with flames in close ups. 
(Length retained : 3 -36m.) 


3 '05m. 


4 XIV : Reduce the number of lashing on Chandrasena when she is tortured by 

Mahadevi. ........... 2 '44m 

(Length retained : 3 '05m.) 

Length of deletions : 5 '49m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3877 -67 m. 


"Philips" (Lights) 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 

"Trailer of Jurm 
“Aur Sazaa” (Hindi) 
Colour) (35mm.) 


“The Egg" (Music 
only) with Titles 
in English (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada.) 


"Ensembles, Dos” 
Music only with 
Titles in French ) 
(Colour) 

(Canada.) 


U 


( 1 ) 


30-48 

(1) 

Kieth Allams, 3-Cool-ln 
Apartments, 
Bombay-50. 

Keith Allams, 

M/s. Kappa, - 

74917 

18-5-74 

91-44 

B, K. Shanna, 

B. K. Sharma, 

U 

(1) 

Young Techni- 
cians, Kochar 

Bhavan, Bombay-52. 

Young Techni- 
cians, Kochar 

Bhavan, Bombay-52. 

74928 

18-5-74 

U 

63 00 
(1) 

Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shanti 

Path, Chankyapuri, 
New Delhi-21. 

National Films 

Board of Canada. 
Govt, of Canada. 

74929 

18-5-74 

U 

46 00 

Do. 

Do. 

74930 


18-3-74 


P.E. 


Not P.E, 



2233 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 



A 


B/71914 

"Hard Rider” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 

653 -00 
(2) 

Canadian High Commi- 
ssion, Shanti Path, 
Chankyapuri, 

New Delhi-21, 

National Films 
Board of Canada 
Govt, of Canada, - 

3225 

16-5-74 

Not P, E. 

B/71101 

“Free Love” (Hindi) 

3974 -59 

Prjya Kola Chitra, 

Sarvjcct, 138 

A 

3226 

With triangle 

(Colour) (35mm.) 

Endorsement : 

(15) 

138-Famous Cine 
Bldg., Bombay-11. 

Famous Cine Bldg., 
Bombay-1 1 . 

17-5-74 

mark. 


Original Length : 4006 -96m. 

Cut Reel 

No. No. 

J . I : Reduce Prominent view of Asha’s Face and body waist upwards while 

tightly held by a killer. ......... 0 -20m. 

(Length retained : 0 -91m.) 

2. 1 : Reduce the prominent shot of the girl’s dead body with blood on her 

skirt lying on the rocks. , .0 -52 

(Length retained : 1 22m.) 

3. Ill ; Delete Mohan’s dialogue addressed to Geeta “Jo tumhare andar hai 

we bahar laao” While taking about changing her dress. .1 22m. 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 1 -22m.) 

4. TIT : Reduce shots whore Bandookwala looks suggestively at Geeta when 

she enters Mohan’s Office and delete his subsequent dialoguo: 

“(Garmi hoti hai to goli khaa lcta hoon.” .2 48m. 

(Replaced with approved dialogue ; 0 '65m.) 

5. Ill : Delete the double meaning dialogue between a girl and Bandookwala 

when she says “Tumharo bandookmcn goli nahi hai khclno 

ke kitno tarlke hai etc 1 10m. 

(Replaced with dialogue : 1 10m.) 

6. V : In theclubdancc performed by Rita, delete t he beginning shots where 

She moves her foot upwards along Mohan’s leg and makes Indecorous 
movements of her logs and midriff, ..... 4 -78m. 

(Replaced with approved shots: 4 '78m.) 

7. VII : Delete Mohan's dialogue addressed to Geeta while wanting to here sex 

with her: “Jitna khowogi usse kitne guna jyada tiun powogi”. , . 2 13m 

(Replaced with approved dialoguo : 0 -61m.) 

8. IX : Delete tho indecorous portion of the shot when Lily is talking to a fat 

man impersonating as officer 1 -]0m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 -10m.) 

9. IX : Reduce the scene in which Geeta is forcibly made to drink and the last 

shot of Geeta when camera is focussed on her breast. 7 23m. 

(Replaced with approved shots 0 -61m.) 

(Length retained : 13 -81m.) 

10. X : Delete Mohan’s remark addressed to Geeta “Turn kalise phool ban 

gayeeho”. . 9 -14m. 

11. XI : Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of Mohan 

“Free love ki is Zamanc men masocmiyat bhj free aur lodklvau bhi 

free hain", 3.31m. (Replaced with approved word). . 3.31 m. 

12. XT : Reduce the scene of Ramesh being beatenup by Mohan’s goondas, , 3 -96m. 

(Length retained : 14 -85m.) 

13. XI : Delete the portion of the shot showing Geeta caressing her thigh in the 

foreground while reclining on bed.” ...... 2 -28m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -30m.) 

14. XI : Delete Ramesh’s dialoguo “Apna to dharma hai Free Love”. , 1 -22m. 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 1 -22m.) 

15. XI : Delete Rita’s dialogue "Aaj Apni pyas doorse buraiye aap keban- 

dook men goli nahfn hai.” addressed to Bandookwala. , 4 -85m. 

(Replaced with approved shot : 3 -05m.) 

16. XIT : Delete Bandookwala’s dialogue “Na aata to malum kaise hota mere 

bandookmen goli hai ya mthin" addressed to Rita when he surprises 

her at Juhu Beach. ........ 2 -37m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 -37m.) 



2234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part IIT— Sec, 4, 


( 1 ) 


C/8014 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


(51 


( 6 ) 


( 7 ) 


17. Reduce the scene when Rita is being stabbed by Bandookwala and delete his 

dialogue “Main mori pyas bujhake rakhoonga, chahe tumhare mar- 
noke baad, ....... . 7 92m. 

(Replaced with approved shots: 4 -79m.) 

(Length retained : 23 '62m.) 

18. XIV : Reduce the scene in which Bandookwala tortures Gecta and slashes 

a knife at her repeatedly. ■ 1 -67 m. 

(Deleted completly) 

Length of deletions : 57 '48m. 

Length of the replacement : 25 48m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions and replacement 
will be : 3974 -59m. 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34. 

B/72070-74 

Film : “Happy Family" (Hindi) (Colour) 
l/- Cert. No. 74644 dated 22-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Telugu Kannada and Malayalam versions 
of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. This certi- 
ficate was endorsed on 13th May, 1974 

B/72080-84 

Film : Little Champ (Hindi) (Colour) 

U- Cert. No. 74647 dated 22-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam 
versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. This 
certificate was endorsed on 13th May 1974. 

B/72075-79 

Film : "The Trip” (Hindi) (Colour) 
li-Cert. No. 74645 dated 22-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam 
voraions of the film in colour. The length of tho film remains unchanged. This 
certificate was endorsed o n 13th May 1974. 


Manihara (Bengali) 1,636-78 
(35mm.) India. (7) 


CALCUTTA 

Chhayabani Private 
Ltd. 77, Dharam- 

tal St., Cal.-13. 


Satyajit Ray 
ductions (P) 
1/lBishop 
Lefroy Road, 
Calcutta-20 


Pro- 

Ltd. 


U 

73420 

16-5-74 


M/8594 


M/8513 


M/8580 


'Tamilnadu 

Regional 

Bulletin 

(Tamil) 


B&W. India. 


Govt. 
News 
No. 116’ 
(35 mm) 


MADRAS 


305 -00 The Directorate 

(1) of Information 

& Public Relations 
Madras. 


The Directorate 

of Information 

& Public Relations 
Madras. 


Vijaya & Suresh 
Combines, Madras. 


Shri D. Rama Naidu, 
Madras. 


‘Prem Nagar* (Hindi) 4658 -87 
(Colour) (35mm.) (18) 

India. 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67552-U dated 15-5-74 issued to the film ‘Prem Nagar’ 
(Hindi) (Eastmancolour) (35mm.) 

Length in the application. 4670 -73Mts. 

Cuts. 

1 . Reel 5— Delete the whipping of the farmer by Shamsher 

R ee l g Delete the sentence of Takat Ram “Aajkal Sarkaren to lottery par chalatl 

hain aur dosh ko lottory pai chahitc hain" 

Total 

Actual length of the film will be 4658 -87 Metres in 18 Reels. 


2 . 


3896 04 Evershine Pro- Evershino Pro- 

(15) ductions, Madras. ductions, Madras. 


‘Night Duty’ 

(Malayalam) 

(35mm.) B&W., 

India. 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67553-U dated 15th May 1974— Issued to the film ‘Night 
Duty’ (Malayalam) (35mm.) B&W. 

Length applied, 3960 40 Metres. 


U 

67551 


14-5-74 


U 

67552 

15-5-74 


With cuts. 


Metres. 

3-64 

8-22 


11 -66 

U 

67553 
1 5-5-74 


With cuts. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2235 


2 3 4 5 6 7 


Cut c. Metre t 

1 . Reel 4 ■■•Delete all words and action of the Christian preacher except the refer- 
ence to the minder. .......... 20-70 

2 Reel 5 — Delete the vulgar aclions of the Nambudiris in “Tiruvathira Kali song". 2 -43 

3. Reel 6 — Delete the dialogue “If I can ntilk a cow that has not calved, r can milk 
you”. 

"I know how to deal with a girl”, ....... 7-30 

4 Reel 7 — Delete the dialogue : — “Even if you don’t.. .1 want your middle” (in the 

hotel room). 19-20 

Also delete all dialogue between husband and wife after the two hotel 
attendants leave the room. 

5. Reel 1 — Delete Panicker without dhoti in the hotel room. . . . * - 2-13 

6. Reel 8 — Reduce the alteration of Police with gambled to a Hash. . • . 8-52 

7. Reel 9— Delete the shot of Nambudiri with a woman after the arrival of Vimala'; 

parents. 2-74 

8. Reel 1 1 — Delete Nambudiri punching his wife on the abdomen. • . • • 0-91 

9. Reel 12— Delete the dialogues between Krishnan Kutty and Rajamnia : 

“you can undress mo in the room" said in a vulagar way. . . .i. e. you can 

catch hold of the ‘Kuthu’ inside tho room, ...... 2-43 


Total ... 66 -36 


Actual length of the film will be 3896 -04 Metres in 15 Reels. 


M/8597 Trailer of ‘Prem 129-53 

Nagar’ (Hindi) (I) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

India. 


M/s. Vyaya & Suresh 
Combines, Madras. 


Shri D. Rama Naidu, 
Madras. 


U 

67554 

18-5-74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSOR 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING 25TH MAY. 1974 
BOMBAY 


M/S Shankar Films, 

227-Famous Cine 
Bldg., Bombay-1. 


B/71971 “Trailer of Kahani 75-28 

Hum Sab Ki" (1) 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

Endorsement : 

Original Length : 88 -08m. 

(Length retained 2 -44m.) 

Reduce the impact of violence considerably Voluntarily deleted 
(Length retained 2 -44m.) 

Actual length of the film after the qforesaid deletions will be 75 -28m. 


Shri Rajkumar Kohli, 
M/s Shankar Films — 
Bombay-1 . 


B/72102 

‘‘Trflilor of 

Imtihan” 

88 -39 

(Hindi) 

(35mm.) 

(Colour) 

(I) 

B/71930 

“Anjaan 

Raahen” 

3560-41 


(Hindi) 

(35mm.) 

Endorsement 

(Colour) 

(15) 


M/s Film Effects, 
Famous Cine Bldg., 
Bombay- 1 1, 

Mohan Films, 

Sablok Mansion, 
Bombay-52. 


Original Length : 3600 -59 mts. 

Cut 
No. 

1 . 


Reel 

No. 


2 . 


11 


III 


4. VIII 


U 

74931 

20-5-74 


M/s. Film Effects, 
Famous Cine Bldg., 
Bombay-11. 

Mohan Sabloak 
Mansion, 
Bombay-52. 


In the class-room sequenco, delete the two repeated close shots of a 
magazine with nude photographs of women in it, retaining the first 
shot when it is held by Rakesh, for tho sake of continuity. . 

(Length retained ; 0 -91m.) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 -06m.) 

Delete the last shot of mouse moving on the Matron’s leg and trying 
to go above under the pntticoat 

Delete the vulgar actions of a boy rubbing and pinching the buttock of 
his girl partner while dancing. ....... 

Reduce the fight between Gautam and Villain Raju and his men, de- 
leting close shots of hits on face, stomach and head, and also some 

kicks by leg 

(Length retained ; 14 -63m.) 


1 -22m. 


0 -45m. 


0 -54m. 


11 -28m. 


With triangle 
mark. 


2 -44m. 


U 

74932 

20-5-74 

U 

74933 
20-5-74 


Metres 


With triangle 
mark. 


J3 369 GT/75 



2236 


B/72085 


B/72059 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


3 


5. IX 


6 . 


X 


: Reduce considerably the love-making scene of Rajen and Sunceta by 
deleting the shots of their physical intimacy, particulaily very intimate 
suggestion of kiss, two partially camouflaged lengthy shols of actual 
kissing, extreme close up of hands showing erotic actions, prolonged 
diffused shot suggesting sexual act, keeping the bare minimum necessary 
for continuity. . ...... 

(Length retained : 26-91m.) 

: (a) In the attempted rape of Geeta by Raju reduce drastically the shot 
of their rolling over each other. ...... 

(Deleted completely) 

(b) Reduce the fight between Raju and Amand by deleting the gruesomo 
visuals of hard hits on the face & stomach and kicks by leg. 

(Length retained : 3 -81m.) 

Length oj deletions : 41 -24 m. 

Length of the replacement I '06m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions and 
meats will be 3560 41m. in 15 Reels. 


15 61m. 


4 -07m. 


8 -07m. 


replace- 


“Shavcr Swish” 30 -48 

(English) (Colour) (1) 

(35mm.) 


M/s Television Radio M/s Television Radio 


B/72096 

“Swish” 

(Hindi) 

30 -48 


(Colour (35mm.) 

(1) 

B/72097 

"You Can’t 

Boat 

30 -48 


Tho Man 

Who 

0) 


Shaves with 

Swish" 


& Motion Pictures 
6-A-Rashmi Car- 
maicle Road , 
Bombay-26. 

Do. 


Do. 


& Motion Pictures 
6-A-Rashmi Car- 
maiele Road, 
Bombay-26. 

Do. 


Do. 


U 

74934 


(Gujarati) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 


21-5-74 


U 

74935 

21-5-74 

U 

74936 
21-5-74 


U 


B/71997 

“The Sweet Way 

30 -48 

M/s Trio Films, 

M/s. Trio 

Films, 

74937 



to Growth” (Eng- 

(1) 

Jyoti Studios 

Jyoti 

Studios, 




lish) (Colour) 


Kennedy Bridge, 

Kennedy 

Bridge, 

21-5-74 



(35mm.) 


Bombay-7, 

Bombay-7. 




B/72020 

"Harvesting” (Music 

117-00 

Canadian High Com- 

National Film Board 

74938 



only with Titled 

(1) 

mission, Shanti 

of Canada, 



P.E, 


in English (Co- 


Path, Chanakya- 

Govt, of Canada. 

21-5-74 



lour) (16mm.) 


puri. New Delhi-20. 






(Canada) 







B/72015 

“Mirage" (Music 

73 00 

Do. 

Do. 


■y 

74939 



only, titles in 

(1) 





P.E. 


English) (Colour) 





21-5-74 



(16mm.) (Canada) 







B/72014 

"N’Adjustez Pas” 

31 -00 

Do. 

Do. 


74940 



(Don’t Adjust it) 

(I) 





P.E. 


(Music only with 





21-5-74 



titles in 

(Colour) 

(Canada) 

“Balak 

(Hindi) 

(35mm.) 


English) 

(I6mm.) 


Dhruv” 

(Colour) 


3631 '98 
(15) 


Hadoti Films, 

Jyoti Studio, 
Kennedy Bridge, 
Bombay-7. 


Shivaji Mane, 
Madan & Kailash 
Sharma Bombay. 


U 

74941 


- With 


21-5-74 mark. 


triangle 


Endorsement : 

Original Length 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. IX 


3651 -80m. 


‘Eaghu shanka” and deergha Shanka" 
the children and an elderly inmate of the 


(a) Delete the reference to 
in the dialogues between 

ashram. ........... 

(b) Delete the sexy action of the girl trying to attract the attention of 
the comedian character in the ashram . Also delete the inde- 
cent gestures of the comedian. ....... 

Length of deletions : 19-82 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 

3631 -98 m. in 15 Reels. 


13 -72m. 
6 -10m. 



Part III— S£c. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2237 


B/72018 “Entre Cel! Et Neige 

(Between Sky and 
snow) (Music only 
with Titles in 
Erench (Colour) 
(16mm.) Canada) 


B/72105 


B/72052 


172 -00 
U) 


U 

Canadian High Com- National Films ' 74942 

mission, Shanti Board of Canada, — Not P.E. 

Path, Chanakya- Govt, of Canada, 21-5-74 
puri, New Delhi-20. 


U 


B/72017 

“Jalan, Jalan, Jour- 
ney in Sudanese 

Jawa” (No Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada). 

232-00 

(1) 

Do. 

Do. 


74943 

. PL 





21-5-74 

r .Jr, 

B/72023 

"Ballet Adagio” 

(Music only with 
titles in English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(Canada) 

119 -00 

CD 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74944 

Not P.E. 





21-5-74 

B/72016 

“Little Men of Chro- 
magnon” (Music 

only with titles 
in English) (16mm.) 
(Colour) (Canada) 

101 00 
(D 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74945 

21-5-74 

P.E. 

B/72010 

“Wind” (No Com- 
mentary (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 

112 00 
(D 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74946 

Not P.E. 





21-5-74 

B/72022 

“Centaut” (No Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 

11900 

(D 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74947 

Not P.E. 





21-5-74 

B/72013 

“North” (No Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 

164-00 

CD 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74948 

Not P.E. 





21-5-74 

B/72012 

"Very Nice Very 

Nice" (No Com- 

mentary) (16mm.) 
Canada. 

85-00 

(D 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74949 

Not P.E. 





21-5-74 

B/72027 

"Balablok” (No 

Commentary) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 

(Canada) 

91 -00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74950 

P.E. 





21-5-74 







U 


B/72103 

“Indian News Re- 
view No. 1336" 
(35mm.) j 

235 -00 
(1) 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 

24 Pcddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 

Films Division, 

nf Tnrlii-i 

74951 

(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Hindi, 

Marathi, Guja- 
rati, Tamil, 

Tclugu, Kannada 
Malaya lam, 
Punjabi, Kash- 
miri, Urdu & 

Sindhi versions.) 


24-Peddar 

Bombay-26. 

Road, 

22-5-74 

B/72104 

“Indian News Re- 

view No. 1336" 
(Eastern Edition) 
(35mra.) 

301 -00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 


U 

74952 

Valid for English, 
Hindi, Bengali, 
Assamese & 





22-5-7 4 


"Maharashtra News 298 ’00 

No. 264" (Marathi) (1) 
(Hindi) (35mm.) 


The Dir. Genoral 
Information & 
Public Relation, 
Govt, of 
Maharashtra. 


The Dir. General 
Information & 
Public Relation, 
Govt, of 
Maharashtra. 


U 

74953 

22-5-74 


Oriyn versions.) 


“The Living Space” 
(Hindi) (35mm.) 


226 '40 

( 1 ) 


Chandu Films, Chandu Films, 

40/1615, D, N. Bombay-58. 
Nagam, Andhori 
(W) Bombay-58. 


U 

74954 

22-5-74 


P.E, 



2238 THE G AZE TTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III— Sec, 4 


1 

2 


3 

4 

5 

6 


7 

B/72015 

“Yott Tlte 
tint” 
(35mm.) 

First Vic- 
(English) 

284 -00 
(1) 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Poddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Poddar Road, 
Bombay -26. 

U 

74955 

PE. 



22-5-74 


B/71037 

"At Dawn 
Here” 
(Colour) 

11*8 quiet 
(English) 

3189 -00 
(19) 

Sc vexportfilm, 
Bakhtavar, 

Bombay-5 

The Gorky Film 
Studio. 

u 

74956 

With 

mark. 

triunglo 


23-5-74 


(Sovescopo) (35mm.) 

(USSR) 

Endorsement : 

Original Length : 5,210-00 nits. 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1. V : From tho si earn bath sequence delete all tho visuals of women with bare 

busts uni! hips . , . . . . . . , 21 -0 m. 

Length of deletions : 21-0 m. 

Actual length oj the film after the aforesaid deletions will re : 5,189 -00 ints, in 19 reels. 

U 


B/72098 

“To Tip Rescue” 
(Bengali) (Colour) 
(35mm.) 

30 -48 
(1) 

M/s Television M/s, Television 

Radio And Motion Radio And — 

Pictures, 6-A- Motion Pictures, 

Rashmi, Bombay -26. Bombay-26. 

74957 

23-5-74 

U 

l’.E, 

B/72009 

•‘Notions Elemen 

90-00 

Canadian High 

Natit nal Film Boat d 

74958 


Wires Do Gone- 
tique” (The Elo- 

ments of Gonetics) 
(No Commentary) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

0) 

Commission, 

Shnnti Path, 
Chanakyapuri, 

New Delhi-20. 

of Canada, 

Govt, of Canada. 

23-5-74 

P.E, 

B/7I901 

"A Life In yout 

(180) 

Hoeclist Pharma- 

Dr. Fritz Hyden- 

u 

74959 


Hand” (Breath of 
Life) (Liiglish) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(Canada) (W.G.) 

(1) 

ceuticals Ltd., 

Roman House, 
Bombay-20. 

roioh Film Pro- 
duction, 

Heidolborg, 

23-5-74 

P.E, 

B/72066 

“Sabhyata Ko Nupur” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

428 -24 
(2) 

Topaz Movies, 

19-Shivaji Park Rd. 
Bombay-28. 

Naina Thakur, 

Pro. Topaz Movies 
Bontbay-28, 

u 

74960 

23-5-74 

U 

74961 

23-5-74 


B/72030 

“Hum Aur Hatnaro 
Bachlio” (Hindi) 

(16mm.) 

202 -39 
(I) 

Subhash Seligal 

For Minocha Pro- 
duction, Bombay. 

Kamalu Minocha for 
Minocha Pro- 
duction. 

Not P.E. 

B/65844 

"Vaehan” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 

3580 -95 
(14) 

1 ejnatb Zar, 
Executive Producer, 
M/s. Zuars Films 

Zars Films 
Organisation. 

U 

74962 

23-5-74 

With 

mark. 


Organisation, Shri 
Sound Studio, 

Dadar. 

Endorsement : 

Orlgnal Length : 3594-51 Mts. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1 IX : Delete tho following dialogue of the ChristianAyah 

“Apunke waste koi bhi size ka ho to chulega” (Sound c n!y)(Sound) 

2 XIV : Reduce the fight in the templo reducing the shots in which ono man 

strikes another with tho bell” ........ 13 •56m 

Length of deletions : 1 3 -56Mts 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3580 -9 5mts in 14 reels 


B/72031 


B/71966 


‘Cry Wolf” (English) 
(I6ram ) (U.K.) 

645-56 

(6) 

National Education 
& Information 

Films Ltd , 

National IIouso, 

Tullach Road, 
Bombay-39, 

Michael Truman. 

“Go KartiGo” (Eng- 
lish) (16mm ) 

(U.K.) 

644-35 

(6) 

Do 

George II Brown, 


U 

74963 

p.L, 

24-5-74 


U 

74964 

— — — P.L. 


triunglo 


24-5-74 



Part III— Sec. 4}THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2239 


B/72025 


B/71981 


H/721J6 


B/71946 


B/71950 


2 

3 

4 

5 


6 


7 

i “Belhune” (English) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 

662 -00 
G) 

Canadian High Com- 
mission, Shanti 

Path, Channkya- 

puri, New Dclhi-20 

National Film 
of Canada, 
of Canada. 

Board 

Govt, 

U 

74965 

P.E. 


25-5-74 



“The Favourite One” 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

22-86 

(1) 

M/s. Trio Films, 

Jyoli Studios, 
Kennedy Bridge, 
Bombay -7. 

M/s. Trio Films, 
Bombay -7. 


U 

74966 

(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Rirdi, 

Marathi, Guja- 
rati, Bengali, 

Assamcso, 
Kannada, 
Tamil, Mala- 

yalarn , ver- 

sions). 


25-5-74 

i “Vision USA 25” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USA) 

281 -33 
(') 

United Statos In- 
formation Service 
Bombay-20. 

S.A. Films, Inc. 


U 

74967 

- p r 




25-5-74 



i “Intoi national 

Swimmer 1972" 

(English) (Colour) 
(16mm) (Australia) 

332 -06 
(1) 

Australian High 

Commission, 

New Delhi 

Denis Hill 


U 

74968 

P.L. 




25-5-74 



“A Deaf Child In the 438 '91 
Family” (Fnghsh) (1) 
(16mm) (Ncw- 
zealand) 


Rev. Fr. Fred. 
Alphonso. 


Nowzoaland 'Nation- 
al, Film Unit. 


U 

74969 

25-5-74 


P.E. 


CALCUTTA 


C/8030 


C/8015 


C/8017 


C/8018 


M/8579 


M/8595 


1 Beheld His Cilory 487 '68 Dr Rev. D Mark Dave Wiikerson, 
(English) (Colour) (1) Buntain 18, Royd USA 

(16mm) USA. St Qil.16 


U 

73421 


Dormant Land (Eng. j 240-00 

(Colour) (16mm ) (1) 

Canada 


Mud Cat-Pond Re- 740-00 
newal (English) (2) 
(Colour) (lCmm ) 

USA 


Dunlop Donovo 121 -92 
(English) (Colour) (I) 

(16mnt ) U. K 


“Tho Limits to" 228 -60 

Growth* (Telugu) (l) 

(35mm ) 

India 


Ramkririina Mission Pamela, USC’ of 
Institute of Cul- Canada 

lure, Calcutta 

Wilier, inge Corpo- National Car Ren- 

ration, Assam tal System Inc, 

USA 


Dunlop India Ltd, Dunlop Limitod, U.K 
62A. Mirza Cha- 
lib St. Cal-16. 

MADRAS 


Shri S. R. Chandran, Shri'S. R. Chandrun, 
Madras Madras 


Sudarsan Entor- Sudarsnn Enter- 
prises, Madras prises, Madras 


21-5-74 

U 

73422 

23-5-74 

U 

73423 

23-5-74 


U 

73424 

23-5-74 


‘Onne Onnu Kanne 3982 -50 
Kannu' (Tamil) (15) 

(35mnt ) B&W 

India 

Endorsement on certificate No 67556-U dated 21st May 1974 — issued to tho film ‘Onne 
Onnu Kanne Kannu’ (Tamil) 

Length applied 3987 -36 Mts. 

Cuts 

1, Reel 4— Delete the dialogue of Akilandam to Parandhaman : — “Ungal Kozhuppai 

Patthi Enakkulhanoy Theriyum— Konjam Mel Muchu Kizhmuchu 

Varukirathu’. . 

2. Reel 14 — Delete the shot showing Alnmu vomitting into the bowl. 

Total 


P.E. 


U 

67555 P.E. 


21-5-74 


U 

67556 With cuts. 


21-5-74 


Mt s. 
3-04 
1 -82 


4-86 



2240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


Actual length of the film will be : 3982 -50 Mts. In 15 Reels . 


M/8557 


M/8598 


M/8578 


M/8575 


M/8576 


M/8582 


U 


‘Thangapnthakkam’ 
(Tamil) (Colour) 

(35mm.) India. 

4762 -7 9 
(18) 

Sivaji Productions , Sivaji Productions, 

Madras. Madras. 

67557 — 

22-5-74 

‘Tulasi’ (Tolugu) 

(35mm.) B&W. 

India. 

4462 -29 
(18) 

Ramavijcta Films, SJiri K. A. Prabhakar, 

Madras. Madras, 

U 

67558 With cuts. 

22-5-74 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67558-U dated 22nd May 1974 — issuod to the film 
‘Tulasi’ (Tolugu) (35mm.) B&W. 


Length applied. 4551 

Cuts. 

■91 Mts. 

Mts. 


1. Reel 11 — Jn the rape scene, after Tulasi escapes from Punyakoti at the doer and 

comos to the chest of drawers whore a statue falls on lloor, delete the rest 
of the sequence including their prolonged struggle near tho bod, under 
the bed and Punyakoti pushing her on tho bed and falling cn top of hor. 

(No objectic n to retaining a brief shot of thoir struggle while standing, 

not exceoding two feet) (Retained 9 14). . . . . ■ . 27 43 

2. Reel 1 1 — Delete the sentence of Punyakoti 'Oka chinna tablet, oka injection uapa- 

ni ciicstundi’ (regarding killing his wifo) 5 '21 

3. Reel 12 — Delete the dying cry of Dharmayya whon he is strangled to death, by 

Punyakoti. (Sound only). . — 

4. Red 18 — Reduce considerably Tulasi beating Punyakoti with iron chain, . 10-66 


Total ... 43 -30 


Voluntary deletion in Reel 18 : 46 ■ 32 Mis. 
Actual length : 4462. 29 Mts. In 18 Reels. 


‘Saukhyam Niche 
MarganV (Tolugu) 

79-24 

(1) 

Shn E. Appa Rao, 
Madras, 

Shri E, Appa Rao, 
Madras. 

U 

67559 

22-5-74 

(35mm,) B&W. 




India 




U 

‘Ek Rahasya’ (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
India, 

80-15 

(1) 

Sliri Ashok Jain, 
Madras. 

Shri Ashok Jain 
Madras. 

67560 

22-5-74 


Endorsement on certificate No. 67560-U dated 22nd May J974 — issued to tho film ‘Ek 
Rahasya’ (Hindi) )Colour). 

Length applied : 80 15 Mts. 


Delete olose-shot of African, eyos of an animal and head of a Chinese figure. (Replaced 
with chandelier and shadow: 2 74). . 

Total 


2-74 


2-74 


Actual length will be: 80-15 Mts. In one Reel. 


Trailer of ‘Naya Din 

Ill -24 

Jamu Pictures, 

Shri N, P. Ali, 

Nai Raat’ (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
India. 

0) 

Madras. 

Madras, 


V 

67561 

23-5-74 


‘Vairam’ (Tamil) 
(35mtu.) B&W. 
India. 


4363 -20 
(17) 


U 

Vijaya & Suit Com- Vijaya & Suri Com- 67562 With cuts. 

bines, Madras. bines, Madias, — — 

23-5-74 


Endorsement on certificate No, 67562-U dated 23rd May 1974— issuod to ‘Vairam’ (Tamil). 


Length applied. 4363 -20 Mts. 

Cuts. Mts. 

Reel 5 — Delete, the shot of Jayakumari when she is addressed by Swami and Dorai, on 
the lino ‘Cnga Kittoy Irukkira Poottukku Sariyana Chavi Tliodarecnga’. 

(Replaced approved shot;! -52). ........ 1 -52 


Total 


1 -52 



Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (ACRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) 2241 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


7 


Actual length will be : 4363 -20 Mis In 17 Reels. 


M/8592 

‘Sampathigay Sat nl’ 

4284 -00 


(Kannada) (Colour) 
(35mm.) India. 

(17) 

M/8568 

‘Naan Avtinillai’ 

4386-37 

(Tamil) (35mm.) 
B&W., India. 

(16) 

M/8570 

‘Sri Krishna Panda- 

509716 

varu’ (Kannada) 

(35mm ) B&W., 

India, 

(19) 


Padmashree Enter- Padmashree Enter- 67563 
prisos, Bangalore. prises, Rang? lot c. 


Shri Naray.mi Films, 
Bangalore. 


Shri Narayani Films, 
Bangalore 


Sri Sarada Produc- Shri R. Hantimnnlha 
lions, Madras. Rao, Madras, 


24-5-74 

U 

67564 

24- 5-74 

U 

67565 

25- 5-74 


PARTICULAS OF FILMS CBRTTFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 1ST JUNE 1974. 


B/72050 


B/7 196ft 


B/72033 


B/72068 


“‘VD— Attack Plan,, 182 -88(1) 
(16mm.) 


(English) 
ol< 


(Colour) 

(USA.). 


“Seventy Deadly Pills" 
((English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 

“Scramble" (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.). 


BOMBAY 

Nat Jnal Educational 
& Information Films 
Ltd., National House 


Walt Disney Produc- 
tions. — 


U 


618-74 


693 -42(6) 


T ulloch 
Bombay-39. 

Do. 


Do. 


Road, 


Derick Willioms 
Productions Ltd. 


Michael Gorell Barnes 


25-5-74 


U 

74971 

27-5-74 

U 

74972 

27-5-74 
U 


74970 
P.E, 


P.E, 


P.E. 


Trn. “Zamane So 84 .08(1) A. Majiidkhan, Maikod A. Majidkhan, Maikoda 74973 With trianoG mart 
Poochho” ((Hindi) Movies^ 308-Famous Movies, Bombay-41. y 


(Colour) (35 mm.) 


Cine Bldg Maha- 
laxmi, Bombay-11. 


28-5-74 


Endorsement 

Original Length: 88 -39 m. 

Reduce considerably the impact of violence —4 -31 mts. 

(length retained : 3 -05 Mts.) 

Length of deletion : 4 -31 m. 

Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 84 -08 Mts. 


B/72108 

“Adhik Dhaan Khush- 
Hal Kisan” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

305 -00(1) 

Mayank Bharatl, E-3- 
Chand Housing So- 
ciety, Juhu, Church 
Rd., Bombay-54. 

Mayank Bharat i 

U 

74974 

P.E. 




28-5-74 

B/72044 

“Training Memoran- 
dum" (English) (Co- 
lour) (16 mm,). 

(USA). 

121 -92(1) 

National Education & 
Information Films 

National Educational 
Media Jnc. 

U 

74975 

P.E. 



Ltd, , National House, 
Tulloch Road, Bom- 
bay-39. 


28-5-74 

B/72045 

“Increasing Produc- 
tivity” (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

74976 

P.E. 





28-5-74 

B/71763 

“Slips and Falls” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USA). 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

Garden State 

U 

74977 

P.E. 





28-5-74 

B/7 191 3 

“The Christmas Tree” 
(English) (16 mm.) 

630 -94(6) 

Do. 

Augusta Productions 
Ltd., 

U 

74978 

T> P 





28-5-74 

— “M, 

B/72043 

“Discipline— A Matter 
of Judgement” (Eng.) 
(Col.) (16mm.) 

121 -92(1) 

Do. 

National Educational 
Media Inc. 

74979 

28-5-74~ 

- P.E. 



2242 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


H/72042 

D/72034 

B/72035 

B/717J8 

B/72119 


B/72145 

B/72148 

B/72144 

B/72109 


B./72100 


‘Room Service” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.( USA). 


“Count Down To 
Danger” (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

“The Sky-Bike” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (UK.) 

"Stout Hearts, Steady 
Hands" (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm.) 

(USA). 

"Trailer of Shatranj 
Ke Mohro” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 


U 

110-95(1) National Bducation & National Educational 74980 P. E. 

Tnfoimalion films htd.. Media Inc. — ■ — 

National House, Tulloch 28-5-74 

Road, Bombay-39. 

U 

733 -04(6) Do. A Fran Bundy Wallace 74981 P.E. 

Productions Ltd. — — — 

28-5-74 


710 -79(6) Do. 


U 

Harold Orton, Eyeline 74982 P.E. 

Films Ltd. 

28-5-74 


300 -53 United State Infor- Ashley Hawken 74983 Not P.T . 

(1) mation Service 4- 

New Marine Linos, 28-5-74 

Bombay-20. 

84-42(1) H. C. Shukla, M/s Ashok Chandra, M/s 74984 With triangle mark. 

Rajanigandha En- Sahel Films, Bombay-50 — — — —— 
torprise, 7-Surkashjta, 29-5-75 

Linking Road, Bom- 
bay-54. 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 89 -30 Mts. 

Delete the shot of Rajan Sethi looking at the thing of tho dancer indecorously and 

her rolling on top of him 4 -88 m 

Length of deletions .-4 -88 m. 

Actual Length of the Film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 84 -42 in. 


“India n News Review 133 -20(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, flom- 
No. 1337” (35 mm.) of India, 24-Peddar bay-26. 

Road, Bombay-26. 


“Tho Ugly Face” 72 -00(1) Do. Do. 

(English) (35 mm.) 


‘Indian Nows Review 217-32(1) Do. Do. 

No. 1337” (Southern 
Edition ( 35 mm.) 


“Trailer of Free Love” 81-18(1) Film Effects, 117, Sarvject, Famous 
(Hindi) (Colour) Famous Cine Bldg., Bldg,, Bombay-1 1. 

(.35 mm.) Mahalaxmi, flom- 

bay-11. 


U 

74985 (Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Maralhi, 

29-5-74 Gujarati, Assemese, 
Bengali, Oriya, 
Punjabi, Kashmiri 
and Urdu ver- 
sions). 

U 

74986 P.E. 

29-5-75 

U 

74987 (Valid for English 

— — Hindi, Tamil, 

29-5-74 Telugu, Kannada 

Malayftlam ver- 
sions, 

U 

74988 With triange mark. 


30-5-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length t 81 -99 m. 

Delete tho sentence “Is Kamaro men aano ke baad” said by Rita suggestively— 0 -81m . 


Length of deletions : 0 -81 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 81 T8»i, 


"Ghatna” (Hindi) 
(colour) 35mm. 

Endorsement — 


3381-45(13) Aradhana Films, 12- Aradhana Films, Bom- 
Geetika-85-S.V. Road, bay-54. 

Santacruz, Bombay- M 


U 

74989 


30-5-74 


With trianlge mark-. 


Original Lenj 

ith : 

3418 -33 m. 

Cut 

keel 


No 

No 


2. 

a 

(а) Delete the kissing between Prcm Dutt and Pad mu 

(б) Reduce the view of Prem caressing the leg of Sonia under the 

table in the hotel ....... 

(Length retained : 1 -52 m) 

2. 

V 

Reduce the nude figure of Sona in Silhouette 
(Length retained : 0-15 ni.) 



2243 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHA YANA 22, 1897) 


l 


2 


3 4 


5 


6 


7 


3, IX Reduce drastically the drctn sequence in which Prem molests 

Sona also delete the close of blood drenched knife . . 33 '64 m. 

(Length retained : 27 -29in.) 

4. X Delete the portion whore too much of blood is seen pc tiling 

in comodcafterthcmuderofPremdutt .... 0-65 m. 

(Length retained : 0 '54 m.) 

Length of deletion t : 36-38 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 3381 -45 m. in 13 reels. 


B/72122 

B/72126 

B/72120 

B/72124 

R/72123 

B/72129 

B/72138 

B/72139 

B/71788-9 

B/71783 

B/7I965 

B/72129 

B/721 52 


‘A Breath Away” 
(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.). 


“Mahakti HoveTazgi" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm.). 


‘‘A Favourite With 
Kvoryonc" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm). 


“Show Baby” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (35 
mm). 


Baby Show” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm). 


“Aladdin In Gonts 
Land" (English) (Co- 
lour) 35 mm). 

“North-West Link” 
ITU-6” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(AUSTRALIA) 


“Design For Tomor- 
row” ITU-5” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16mm) 
(Australia) 


“Today And Every 
Day” (English snd 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm). (USSR). 

“Monuments of Fri- 
endship” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(USSR). 

“Day Light Robbery” 
(English) (16mm). 


U 

30-48(1) M/s Films, Jyoti Stu- M/s Films, Jyoti Stu- 74990 

dio, Kennody Bridgo, dio, Kennedy Bridge, — - 

Bomba y-7. Bombay-7. 30-5-74 


30.48 (1) 


Film Media, 47-Laxmi 
Insurance Bldg., 
Hombny-1 . 


U 

Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur, 74991 

Film Media , Bom • — — 

bay-1. 30-5-74 


30-48(1) M/s. Breeze Adv. & 
Marketing Sagar Tal- 
kies Bldg., Abid 
Road, Hyderabad. 


U 

Jndrn Bijlani- United 74992 

Film Makers, 311-12 — — 

Himalaya House 30-5-74 
Palton Road, Bom- 
bay-1. 


30-48(1) 


30 -48(1) 


U 

Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 74993 

Services Cecil Court Service, Bombay-1. * 

Lansedown Road, 30-5-74 

Bombay-1 . 

U 

Do. Do. 74994 


30-5-75 

U 

30-48(1) Film Media, Mr. Jyoti G. Thakur, 74995 

Bombay-1 Film Media, Bombay- 1. — — 

30-5-74 

U 

227-00(1) Prndeshik Doorsan- Post Master General, 74996 

char, Prashikshan Australia. — - P.E. 

Kendra 4312 Mount, 30-5-74 

Industries Estato J.B. 

Nagar Post office, 

B’bay-59. 

U 

660 -44(2) Pradcshik Doorsanc- Post Master General 74997 

har Pru,, Shikshan Australia P.E. 

Kendra. 4312 Mount 30-5-74 

Industries Estate J.B. 

Nagar Post Office. 

Bombay-59. 

U 

520-00(2) USSR Consulate Gene- Central Dccumcntniy 74998 

ral, 42-Napcansca Film Studio — — — 

Road, Bombay-6. 30-5-74 


U 

1428-00(5) Do. Do. 749 99 


30-5-74 


638 -56(6) National Education John Devis. 
and Information Films 
Lid. 


75000 

— P.E. 

30-5-74 


U 

“Face Off" (English) 2939 -19(12) Film Finance Corpo- Canadian Film Devc- 75101 

(Colour) (35 mm). ration, 9I-Walke- lopment Corporation. — 

(Canada). shwar Road, Bombay-6 31-5-74 

U 

“Ravi’s Siter 2-India" 50-00(1) Films Division, Govt, Films Division, Govt, 75102 Not P.E. 

(No Commentary- of India, 24-Pcddar of India, 24-Pcddar 

Music Only) (35m). Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 31-5-74 


14—369GT/75 






2244 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 



U 

B/72155 “Goa India" (No 85 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75103 Not P.E. 

Commentary) Music of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar — — 

Only) (35 mm.) Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 31-5-74 

U 


B/72151 

“Ravis Sitar 1-India” 
(No Commentary 

Music Only ) (35 mm) 

158-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75104 Not P.E. 

31-5-74 

B/72148 

“EUora-Jndiii” (No 
Commentaiy Music 
(Only) (35 mm.) 

52-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75105 Not P.E. 

31-5-74 

B/72154 

"Drums-Indla" (No 
Commentary) Music 
Only) (35 mm.) 

57 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75106 Not P.E. 

31-5-74 

B/71 832-3 

“Around The Soviet 
Union No. 98” (Ka- 
nnada and Telugu) 
(Colour) (USSR). 

109 -00(1) 

U.S.S.R, Consulate 
General, 42-Napen 
Sea Rond, Bombay- 6. 

Central Documentary 
Film Studio 

U 

75107 

31-5-74 

B/71834-8 

“Around Tho Soviet 
Uniot No. 100-101” 
(16mm.) (Colour) 

(USSR). 

182-00(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75108 (Valid for Mara- 
thi, Guj., Punjabi, 
31-5-74 Bengali, Sc Telugu 
Versions.) 

B/75109 

“Around The Soviet 
Union No. 92" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(USSR). 

111-00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75109 

31-5-74 

B/72037 

“On tho Run” (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm.) 

659 -89(6) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd., 

Derick Williams Pro- 
ductions Ltd. 

U 

75110 P.E. 

31-5-74 

B/72032 

"Lion eHart” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16 mm.) 

657 -45 (6) 

Do, 

Michael Forlong Pro- 
ductions Ltd. 

U 

75111 P.E. 

31-J-74 


U 

B/72110 “Asi Hi Sataryachi 3654-23(13) Shripad Chitralaya, D.C. Slutb, 45/1/5 75112 With Hit ngle Mnk. 

Tarha" (Marathi) 45-1.1 New Market New Market, Bom- — — - ■ ■ - 

(35mm.) Lalbaug, Bombay-12, bay-12. 1-6-74 

Endorsement — 

Original Length : 3664 -29 m. 

Cut Reel 
No. 

1. XII Reduce considerably hard punches exchanged between Taxman 
Patil and henchman of Bali Palil and tho torture of Laxman 
Putil by spoar before he is murdered . . . . , 10 -06 m. 

(Length retained - 13-41 m.) 

Length of deletions: 10 -06 m. 

Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3654.23 m.’Jn 13 reels 

U 

B/72058 “Pap Aur Punya" 4393 08(17) Mtnghan Enterprise, Shyamsundcr Shlvdasanj, 75113 With Triangle mink 

(Hindi) (Colour) 7-Anupama, 14th M/s. Murghan Enter- 

(35 mm) Khar, Bombay-52. prise, Bombay-52. 1-6-74 

Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4441 -54 m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. II Reduce drastically the scene of Balbir Singh killing his brother 

and son In a gas chamber, keeping only a suggestion by using 
unobjectionable Shots , . . . . , . 8 -23 m, 

(Length retained : 9 -45 in. 

2. IX Reduce the fight between police and the smugglers at the rail- 

way crossing 3 -35 m. 

(Length retained : 34-14 m.) 



2245 


J>ARt III— SEC, 4*1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


l 


B/71902 

B/72132 

B/72135 

B/72134 

B/72131 

B/72133 

B/72156 

B/71881 


B/71774 


2 


3 


4 5 6 7 


3. X Reduce the whipping of Jwala by Jugni by deleting hard hitting 

Shots 

(Length retained : 20 -73 m. ) 


4, 


5. 


6 . 

7. 


X Delete all the shots of Subhadra in bedroom where she is with 
baro back as suggested ....... 

XI In the light in the "Jantar Mantar” between smugglers and 
Police, reduce the fight by deleting hardhitting shots and 
reduco the impact of a police man getting killed during his 
struggle with Jwala by deleting the shot of the policeman Tying 
down and his dead body ....... 

(Length retained : 50 '59 m.) 

XIV Reduce whipping of Sister Margaret by BaJbig Singh 
(Length retained : 2 -44 m.) 

XV Reduce the fight in the smuggler’s den ..... 
(Length retained ; 50 -29 m.) 


8. XVf In the last fight reduce the impact of violence by deleting shots 
of hard hitting punches, chops and killings . 

(Length retained : lit -25 m. ) 

Length of deletions : 48 -46 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 4393 '08m. 


In 17 reels. 


3 '66 m. 

14 '63 m. 

3 '66 m. 
0-91 m. 
2 '44 m. 

11 '58 m. 


“Probing The Fron- 
tiers of Life” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16 
mm.) (W.G.) 

“Modern Air Field 
Pavements” (English) 
(Colour)(16 mm). U.K. 

"Pressed Concrete Pa- 
nels” (English) (Co- 
lour) (16 mm.) (U.K.) 

“Streets Ahead” 

(English) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (U.K.) 


“Computer-Aided Buil- 
ding” Design" (Eng.) 
(16 mm.) (U.K.). 


“Brick Laying to day 
and Tomorrow” (Eng.) 
(Colour) (1 6mm.) 


“FROM LIONS WITH 
LOVE” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.). 


410-00(1) 

IToochst Pharmaceu- 
ticals Ltd., Roman 
House, Bombay 20. 

Farbwerke Hoechst 
A.G. 

U 

75114 

Not P. 


1-6-74 


609 -60(2) 

Director, National 

Buildings Organisa- 
tion, New Delhi. 

United Motion Pic- 
tures (London), 

U 

75115 

P.E. 


1-6-74 


74 '07(1) 

Do. 

Building Research 

Station. 

U 

75116 

P. E. 



1-6-74 


224 '33(1) 

Do. 

Clift Parris. 

U 

75117 

P.E. 




1-6-74 


121 -92(1) 

Do. 

William Newman, Im- 
perial. 

U 

75118 

P.E, 



1-6-74 


224 '33(1) 

Do. 

Building Research 

Station, 

U 

75119 

P.E. 



1-6-74 


404 -00(1) 

R. K. Colour Studio, 
Colaba Bombay-5. 

R. K. Colour Studio, 
Colour Bombay-5, 

U 

75120 



1-6-74 



'“Based On Trust” 
(English) (35 mm,) 


469 00(2) Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 


Films Division, Govt, 
of India, 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay-26. 


U 

75121 P. E. with triangle 

— mark. 

1-6-74 


Endorsement: 

Original Length : 542 -00 m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1 1 Delete the shots in which a cabaret dancer makes indecorous 

gestures as also close views of tho dancer who is sacantiiy clad , 23 •!! lit. 

Voluntary deletions in two reels ...... 49.23 in. 

Length of deletions : 23 -77 m. 

Voluntary deletions :49 -23 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 469 '00m. In 2 reels. 

U 

"Call Girl” (Hindi) 3332-43(14) Mukesh Movies, 3- Ved Khann, 3-Parijat, 3327 Wilh triangle mark, 

(Colour) (35mm.) Parfjat 19-Marin 95-Marine Drive, — 

Drive, Bombay-2. Bombay-2. 28-5-74 



2246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHA YANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


Endorsement : 

Original Longth ; 3352 '54 m. 
Cut Reel 

No. No. 


C/8032 


C/8031 


C/8034 


1. I Delete the indecorous close-ups of girls's anatomy appeal ing as 

title background ....... 26 -82 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots: 26-82 m.) 

2. VI Delete Ramcsh kissing Usha nt tho end of the scene when he is 

about to seduce her ....... 2-44 m. 

Delete indecorous close ups and shots of Kikini clad cabaret 
dancer , . , . . 3 65 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots - 3 -65 m. ) 

In the Hash back scene of rape on Kamim by Sonachnnd, delete 
the shot of Sonachand caressing Kamini’s neck with his lips . 2-74 nt. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -30 m.) 

Delete the underlined word from the dialogue of Babu addressed 
to kamini “Sotly me Tumko Pavitra kar diya hai” with reference 
to Kamini having been raped by Sona — (Sound) 

(Replaced with approved words) 

Delete the underlined word from Banu’s dialogue addressed to 
Sonachand whilo referring to procurement of a now girl “Maul 
taza hai.” (Sound). 

(Replaced with approved words). 

Delete the underlined word from Banu’s dialogue addiessed to 
Amur : “Sharir to bada lamba hai” lekin dam nahin hai”(Sound) 

(Replaced with approved words). 

8. IX Delete the words "Khila Khila ghula ghula mehka ang ang le lo” 

from tho song Sung by Tina . . . . . 15 -23 m. 

(Deleted the picturisation also). 

Length of deletions : 50 -88 m. 

Length of the replacement: 30-77 in, 

Actual length of the film after- the aforesaid deletion and replacement will be : 3332 -43 m. in 14 reels 

CALCUTTA 


IX 


XI 


XI 


XII 


XIV 


Diamond (Hindi) (35 
mm) (India). 


30 -48(1) Sadhana Film Distri- Sadhana Film Distri- 
butors 3, Saklat Placo butors. 

Calcutta-13. 


U 

73425 


Gandhar — 
(Bengali) 
(India). 


Madham 
(35 nun) 


289 -56(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Sandhan (Assamese) 
(35 mm), (India). 


915 -00(3) Mayur Films, Assam, Mayur Films, Assam 


27-5-74 

U 

73426 
27-5-74 

U 

73427 
27-5-74 


P.E, 


C/8035 


C/8040 


Orissa : Faith And 
The Festive Wheel 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm) (India). 

Paschim Banga Sar- 
karer Sangbad Chitra 
No. 57 (Bengali) (35 
mm), (India), 


592 -83(2) Sailon Dutt Produc- 
tions 7, Indian Miror 
St. Cal-13. 


Salle Dutt Productions 


374 -90(2) Sircar Productions 38/ Dept, of Information 
1. Elgin Road, Cal-20. & Public Relations 

Govt, of West 
Bengal, Calcutta. 


U 

73428 


U 

73429 


P.E. 


27-5-74 


28-5-74 


MADRAS 

M/8583 “Vijaya Rarnudu’ 3880-40(16) Sri Vijaya DurgaPic- 

(Telugu) (35) mm.) tures, Madras. 

(B & W) (India) 


Srhi E. Appa 
Madras. 


Rao, 


U 

67566 With Cuts. 


27-5-74 



2247 


part III— Sec. 4]THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67566-U dt. 27lh May 1974 — issued to the film ‘Vijaya Ramudu’ (Telugu) 35 min. fl &W . 
Length applied : 3836 -78 Mts. 


Cuts 

1 . 

2 . 

3. 

4. 


5. 


Reel 

3 Delete the mother telling her daughter “Velli nee ishtam vachi- 
nattalla vadi chota pani cheyinchuko” ..... 

4 Delete the gill’s sentence to the youth ‘Ma ayya neelanli 
kandalu tirigina vadiko ivvalantunnuadu”, 

4 Delete Kampa's sentence toghr girl “Prema veesulu choppa 
koodadu, chesi choopinchah” .... 

3 From tiro song picturisation, delete the following;— (a) Vijayt 
embracing her maid when the breasts of the two are seen tou- 
ching near the song line “Chiru gili giligintalu chesam lo” 
(Roplaced with clouds ; 2 -43) 

(b) Vijaya embracing the tree when the (ree trunk is prominently 
seen between her busts against the line “podalo poovule vinsc 
re la” 

(Roplaced with trees : 0 -30). 

6 From the song picturisation, delete the following: — 

(a) The close-range shot of V^jaya’s pointed breasts prominently 
see touching Ramu against the words “Cheyi kalapali” 
‘‘(tirst verse) (Replaced with hands : 1 -21) 

(b) Ramu bending over the breasts of Vijaya who is bending on 

her back , on the lino “Goronka rammanagane (repetition). 
(Replaced with Gorunka and parrot : 1 -97) . 


6. 14 Delete the opening shot of the reel when Kampa is scon bending 

over Chitti in close-proximity on cot. (No objection to the shot 
after his rising) ....... 


Mts. 

1 '52 

2-74 

1-52 


2-43 

0-30 


1 -21 

1 -97 


O'fiO 


Total . . . 12-29 


Actual length will he: 3880 -40 Mts. In 16 Reel r. 


U 

M/8577 ‘Bantrothu Bharya’ 4561 -62(18) Geetlra Art Productions, Gcotha Art Productions 67567 With Cuts. 

(Telugu) (35 mm ) Madras. Madras. — 

B & W ( (India) 27-5-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67J67-U dt. 27th May 1974— issued to the film ‘Banlrothu Bharya’ (Tulugu). 

Length applied: 4736 -28 Mts. 

Cuts. Reel Mts. 

1. 7 Delete satyam’s sentence to Shanthi ‘Marco anta loossanilco’ 0-60 

2. 10 Delete the sentence of Slumti “Oka Bantrothu Muni Manamodu” 

referring to Nehru” • 5-17 

3. 17 Delete Harisehandran Rno telling his men “Nolitlu chopithe 

votlu vesa kaiam kaadidi — no tlatone cheppah” . . • 2-13 

4. 18 Delete the District Collector helding the currency notes and 

handing them over to Ramachandra Rao, without taking any 

action ...... 6 09 


Total cuts ■ . 13-99 


Voluntary deletions in Reel Nos. 1, 8, 10 ; 160-67 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the cuts and voluntary deletions will he'. 4561 -62 metres in 18 reels. 

U 

M/8599 "Manushulu Mathi 3958 -14(16) Chitranjali Pictures, Chitrnnjali Pictures, 67568 With Cuts. 

Bommalu” (Telugu) Madras. Madras. 

(35 mm.) Black, and 27-5-74 

White (India). 

Endorsement on Cert. 67568-U dated 27th May 1974 — issued to film ’Manushidu-Mathi Bommalu’ (Telugu). 
Length applied : 3993 -18 Motres. 

Cm Is. Reel Metres. 

From the picturisation of the song bigitming with the words 
"Pagadalu pyna posadamma”, delete the followings:— 

1 5 (a) Rani lifting her skirt up which goes completely upwards 

revealing her frontal portion on BGM before the song 
begins, (replaced with insertion of audience— 0 -91 metres . . 


0 -91 



2248 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


12 1 4 5 6 7 


2 . 


3. 


(b) Rani’s action of lifting her skirt up facing boy. (replaced Metre:, 

with insertion of boy's laugh — 0 -30) . .0 -30 

(c) Rani bending on her back and giving indecent hip move- 

ments near the line “Sande vclaku rammannade”. (Repla- 
ced with insertion of audience reaction) (0-91 metres) 0-91 

(d) Rani squatting with the action of her hands at her front. 

(Replaced with insertion of audience reaction — 0 '91 metres) 0 '91 

(c) Her skirt going up rcvelatnj her lower portion, towards the 

end of the end of the songs ..... 1 '52 

8 From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 
“Orori Mallanna”. delete Rant beating her breasts by her 
hands at the end of Pallabi, before the first charanam begins, 

(Replaced wirh boys play — 1 -82 metres) .... 1-82 

8 Delete the sequence of school boys bringing two donkeys into 
tho living room of the warden, one donkey disturbing the war- 
den and another donkey repeatedly pulling off tho blanket 
from the server’s bare body, till the warden gets up and 33 -52 

shouts — — 

Total Cuts 39 '89 


Actual length of the films after cuts and replacements will be'. 3958 T4 metres in 16 reels. 

U 

M/8611 Tamil Nadu Govt, 305-00(1) The Directorate of The Directorate of 67569 

Regional News Bui- Information and Information and — — 

lettin No. 117 (Tamil) Public Relations, Public Relations, 30-5-74 

(35 mm) (B & W) Madras. Madras. 

(India.) 



part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2249 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


Particulars of Films certified 


B/72159 “Prime Minister of 
Sri Lanka Visits India” 
(English) (35mm.) 


fl/72150 “Raga-2-IndU” (No 
Commentary Music 
only) (Docummenta- 
ry) (35mm.) 


B/72153 “Raga-l-lndia” (No 

Commntary Music 
only) (Docuramen- 
tary) (35mm) 

fl/72036 “Hide and Seek” 

(English) (Col.) (16mm) 
(U.K..) 


B/72111 "Rich And Golden" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm) (Advt.) 


B/72141 “A Winning Smoke” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(Advt.) (35mm.) 


B/72113 “Lok Nrutya” )Guj- 
arati) (Colour) (Advt.) 
(35mm.) 


B/72112 “Nrutyollas” (Ma- 
rathi) (Colour) (Advt.) 
(35mm.) 


B/72208 “Indian Nows Re- 
view No, 1338” (News 
Reel) (35mm) 


B/72207 “Indian News Re- 
view No. 1338" (Wes- 
tern Edition) (35mm) 


B/721 88-91 “Aur Bhi Zyada” (Col- 
our) (Advt.) (35mm) 


B/721 84-87 "Annek Anek Beshi” 
(Colour) (Advt.) (35 
mm) 


B/721 15 “Science Report 151- 
B” (English) (16mm) 
(USA) 


or refused by the Central Board of film censors during the week ending the 8th June 1974 
BOMBAY. 


U 

516 00(2) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt, 75122 Not P. E. 

of India 24-Peddar of lhdis, 24-Peddar — — — 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 4-6-74 


U 

78 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 75123 Not P, E, 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 4-6-74 


80 -00(1) Do. 


Do. 


U 

75124 Not P. E. 


4-6-74 


U 

694 -64(6) National Education & Michael Corel! Barnes. 75125 P, E. 
Information Films — — — — — 

Ltd., National House, 4-6-74 

Tullach Road, Bom- 
bay-1 , 


30 -48(1) Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc- U 

tions, Indira House, tions, Bombay-1, 75126 

First floor opp. ■ ■ ■ 

G. P. O., Bombay-1 4-6-74 

U 

30 -48(1) M/s Golden Tobaco, Miss Indira Bijlani 75127 

Vile Parle, Bombay-56. United Film Makers, — — 

Bombay-1. 4-6-74 

U 

15-24(1) Sohrub, Boga M/s Sohrab Boga, M/s Ni- 75128 

Nishan motion Pictures, shan Motion Pictures. 

Vasant Vihar 8-Car- 4-6-74 

maichael Road, 

flombny-26. 

U 

15-24(1) Do. Do. 75129 


4-6-74 


174 -95(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75130 (Valid for Fnuliab 

of India, 24 Peddar of India, 24-Peddar Tamil, Hindi’ 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 5-6-74 Tclugu, Kannada 

Malaya lam, As- 
sumeso, Oriya Ben- 
gali, Punjabi, Ka- 
shmiri & Urdu ver- 
sions.) 


246 -88(1) Do. 


Do. 


30 -48(1) Radio Advt, Services, Radio Advt. Services. 
Cecil Court Lansedo- 
omc Road, Bombay-1. 


30-48(1) Do. 


Do. 


149-96(1) United States Infor- Robert Forster, 
mat ion Service 4- 
New Marine Lines, 

Bombay-20. 


U 

75131 


5-6-74 


U 

75132 


5-6-74 


(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Hindi Ma- 
rathi, Gujarati & 
Sindi Versions), 


(Valid for Hindi, 
Tamil, Kannada, 
& Tclugu ver- 
sions.) 


U 

75133 (Valid for Begn- 
~ - ■ ■ gali, Hindi, Ma- 
5-6-74 rathi, & Gujarati 
versions.) 


U 

75134 P.E. 


5-6-74 



2250 THE GAZETTE OE TNDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AC.RATIAYANA 22, 13971 [Part HI— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) 


(4) (5) (6) (7) 


B/72118 


B/72114 


B/72215 


B/72128 


“Cromptorn Breeze 
(English) (Colour) 
(Advt.) (35mm.) 


‘Science Report 151- 
(A” (English) (16mm) 
(USA) 


‘‘Trailer of Hawas” 

(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm), 

Endorsement 

Original Length : 

Delete front view of Rekha’s baro thighs during dunce. — 2 -85m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bo. — 1 14 -80 m. 

Shyam Sunder Shiv- U 

‘‘Traitor of Pap Aur 88-90(1) disani. 7-Anuamn, Shyam Sunder Shivda- 75138 With triangle mark 

Punya” (Hindi) (Col- 14th Road, Khar, sani, 7-Anupama, 14th — 

our) (33mm.) Bombay-52. Road Bombay-52. 7-6-74 

Endorsement : 

Ot Initial Length : 89 -92 in. 

Delete Iho shot of the child being thrown from the top of a building or else show the child being 

caught while falling as shown in the main film. — 1 -83m- 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will bo - 88 09 m. 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 : 

B/72200-06 

Film - “No Other Choice” (English) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74847 of 27-4-74. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Gujarathl, Malnyalam, Kannada, Bengali and 
Tolugti vresinos of the film in colour. The Longth of the film remains unchagod. This certificate 
was endorsed on 5lh June, 1974 

B/72160 

Film ; “Bandits” (Engisli )(Colour) 

U-Cert No. 74177 of 9-1-74 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th Juno, 1974 

B/71417 

Film s “Our Striking Force” (English) 

U-Cert. No, 74631 of 22-3-74. 

Deleted various shots : 53 -36 m. Actual length of the Him after the aforosaid deletions will bo : 
163 -44m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th June, 1974. 

B/72099 

Film : “A Few More Questions” (Hindi) 

U-Cort. No. 74922 of 14-5-74. 

Corrections - The length of tho film on the face of the certificate may be read as 333 -00m. instead 
of 398-15 mis. 

This certificate was cncorscd on 5th June, 1974. 

B/28/7337 

Film : “Sudamyache Poho". 

U-Cort. No. 59827 of 18-6-70 

The titles of the film on the face of tho certificate may be road as “Sudamyache Pohe alias Shri 
Krishna Sudani.;” instead of “Sudamacho Pohe” this certificate was endorsed on 5th June, 1974. 


30-48(1) Maja Mediums, 927 Majn Mediums. Bom- 


Tardeo-Air Condi- 
tioned Market, Tar- 
de, Bombay-34. 


bay-34. 


147-21(1) United Statos Infor- Robert Foster, 
mation Service, New 
Marines Linos, Hom- 
b.ty-20, 

114 -80(1) Sawan Kumar, Bombay Sawan, Kumar. 


U 

75135 


5-6-74 


U 

75136 P.E. 


5-6-74 


U 

75137 With triangle mark 


7-6-74 


17-65 cm. 


C/8036 

C/8037 


WEEK ENDING 8TH JUNE, 1974 

U 

Prashad Award Win- 95-45(1) Prashad Press & Pub- Prashad Press & Pub- 73430 

ning Function (Ben- bUcallon 42, Indian Ucation — 

gali) (35mm) (India). Mirror St, Cal-13, 3-6-74 

U 

Kanalata (Oriya) (35 4,390-03(16) Konark Films Private Ghanashyam Mohapatra. 73431 
mm) India. Ltd. Badam Badi, Cu- 

ttack-9, 


3-6-74 



part III— Sec. 4] 1 (IE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2251 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


0 


M-8600 

‘Part I The Diode 
Chaiacterstc’ (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 

Roland. 

197-50(1) 

Principal, College of 
Engineering, Gundy, 
Madras. 

Phillips of Holland, Ho- 
le nJ. 

67570 

3-6-74 

P.E. 

M/8601 

Part III — Tho Trans- 
sistor Status of Op- 
position. (English) 
(Colour) (16mm) 
Holland. 

208 -47(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67571 

3-6-74 

P.E. 

M/8581 

‘Bengaam Kalalu’ 
(Tolugu) (Colour) 

(35mm,) (India. 

4508 -29(16) Jayashrcc Combines, 
Madras. 

Annapurna Pictures 
(P) Ltd, Madras. — 

U 

67572 

4-6-74 

With Ciiis, 


Endorsement on cert. 67572-U dt. 4tli June 1974 — issued to tho film ‘Bangaaru Kalalu’ (Tclugu). 

Length applied. 4514 -67 Mts. 


Cuts Mts. 

1. Reel 3 — Delete Chidambaram taking out the liqueur bottle beneath the mini 

pedestal on which the idol of a deity is placed. ( Replaced with 
Chidambarnnigocs to almirah and takos out the liquor bottle). 

4 -86 Mts. ......... 4 '86 

2. Reel 6 — Delete Venn’s dialogue "Devalayallo an therthaniki badulu yee 

teertham isle” referring to liquor . . . . . .2-74 

3. Reel 1 1 — Delete the inference to “Kerala nurse” from the dialogue of Sc- 

shagiri. 3-64 


Total 11-24 


Actual length will bo 4508 '29 Mts. in 16 Reels. 

U 

M/8584 ‘Avalukku Nihar Aw 4251 05(16) Sri Ravi Priya Films, Sri B. Jayaraman, 67573 With cuts. 

ale' (Tamil) (3 mm) Madras. Madras. 

(B&W) (India) 4-6-74 

Edndorsement onf cert. No, 67573-U dt. 4th Juno 1974 — issued to the film ‘Avalukku Nihar Avale’ (Tamil). 

Length nppliod. 4274 -81 Mts. 

Cuts Mts. 

1, Reel 5, 8 & 1 1 — Delete the words “Kusapayal, Kusatthi, Mann Miclhi- 

kkira Kazhudhai, wherever it occurs in all reels in tho 

film ......... 8 -52 

2. Reel 13 — Delete insert shots of brothel (superimposed in tho song) (Re- 

placed with close shots of Abhirami, 8 -28 Mis.) . . . 8-22 


Total . . . . . ,16-74 


Voluntary deletions in Reel 3, 15 -25 Mts. 


M/8596 


Actual length will be 4251 -05 Mts. in 16 Reels. 

U 

‘Oroy Saatchi’ (Tamil) 3809-70(14) Devi Creations, Madras Devi Creations, Madras, 67574 With cuts. 

(35mm) (B&W) (In- 

dia) 5-6-74 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67574-U dt. 5th June 1974 — issuod to tho film ‘Orey Saatchi’ (Tamil) 

Length applied. 3816 -09 Mts. 

Cuts Mts. 

1. Reel 5 — Reduce molestation sequence to a flash. Delete Selvam’s action 

of toarittg Kanchana’s blouse. ...... 6-39 

2. Reel 0 — Delete tho name Palayamkottai, with reference to prison. (Re- 

placed with approved dialogue-sound only) .... — 


Total .' 6-39 


Aetna] length will be 3809 -70 Mts. in 14 Reels. 

U 

M/8602 ‘Potash for Top Dro- 152-40(1) Krishnaswamy Associates Krishnaswamy Asso- 67575 

ssing’ (Tamil) (Col- (P) Ltd. Madras. ciattes (P) Ltd. Mad 

our) (35mm) (India). ras, 7-6-74 


15— 369GI/75 


2252 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


11) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


M/8608 


M/8609 


M/8610 


M/8751 


‘Kaun Ho Turn’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 35 
mm) (India). 

Elk Rahasya Ek Ta- 
sali’ (Hindi) (Col- 
our) (3 inm.) India, 


*A Beautiful Tradi- 
tion (Hindi) (Col- 
our) (35mm) (India) 


"Moham” (Malaya- 
1am) (35mm.) 
(B&W) (India) 


U 

80-76(1) Shri Ashok Jain, Mad- Shri Ashok Jain, Mad- 67576 

rat. ras. 

7-6-74 

U 

801 06(1) Do. Do. 67577 


7-6-74 

U 

29-71(1) Sound & Siglit, Madras Sound & Sight, Madras, 67578 


7-6-74 

U 

3502 -84(14) Aar Boo Produns., Shri M.B. Pisharody, 3303 A With cuts. 

Bangalore. Bangalore. 

7-6-74 


Endorsornani on Cert. No 3303-A dt. 7th June 1974 — issued to the film ‘Moham’ (Malayalam. 35mm, B&W 

Length applied. 3350 OO Mts. 

Cuts Mts. 


1. Reel 2 — Delete shot (oloso) of Shanti’s front and Vasu’s back-action of 

Kissing .......... 7-30 

2. Reel A — Delete (a) the scene in which Bhasker is givon massage by his lady 

secretary and later mounts on him. The ontire scone, . 19-34 

(b) Bhasker and Uma in Bed 1-34 

3. Reel 5 —Delete cabaret dancers bottom shown in close-shot, (b) Insert 

of a man ifting his dhoty and moving into bathroom . 8 -82 

4. Reel 7 — Reduce ( a ) shot of Bhaskar and Shanta in bod, to a flash . 2-13 

(b) Delete Sbanta’s closo-shot in bod 3 04 

(o) Delete Lawyers’ dialogue is which he says to Shanta ’Endoy 

Thokku Kaanandoy — Aktheykku Poham”. ■ • . . . 5 17 


Total 47-16 


Actual length will be 3502 -84 Mts. in 14 Reels. 


B/72192 

"Many Many More” 
(English & Hin di) 
(Colour) 35 mm. (Advt.) 

30 -48(1) 

Radio Advertising Ser- 
vices, Cecil Court 
Lndown Road, Bom- 
bay-1. 

Radio Advertising servi- 
ces. 

B/721 125 

"Alladin Aur Rang 
Birange Gems" (Hin- 
di) (Col. (35mm.) 

(Advt.) 

30.48(1) 

Film Media, 47- 
Lnxnii Insurance Bl- 
dg,, Sir P. M. Road, 
Bombay- 1. 

Mr. Jyoti G. Thnkur, 
Media, 

B/72213 

“Water Water Every- 
where” ^English) 

(Col.) (16mm.) 

60 -96(1) 

National Education & 
Information Films 
Ltd,, Nation IIouso, 
B'ba-1. 

National Film Board 
of Canada. 

B/72212 

“Perception-Structure 
or Flow” (English) 
(Colour) (16nim./ (Canada) 

166-12(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/72211 

Smokor’s Lungs” (En- 
glish) (Col.) (16nim) 
mm) (Canada). 

157-88(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/72210 

"The Unplannod" 
(English) (Colour) 

(16mm) (Canada) 

223 -12(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

B/71768 

“Trailer of Mehrnan” 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm) 

Endorsement 

88 -39(1) 

Shatrujt Films, Ran- 
jeot, Studio, Dadar, 
Bombay. 

Shrutjit Paul, 


Original Length : 93 -29 m. 

Reduce shots of violence and cruelty — 4 -90 m. (Length rctainod : 0 -50m. 
Aotual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be ; 88 -39 m. 


U 

75139 

10-6-74 


U 

75140 


10-6-74 


U 

75141 P. E. 


10-6-74 


U 

75142 P.E, 

10-6-7 A 
U 

75143 P.E. 

10-6-74 

U 

75144 P.E. 

10- 6-74 
U 

75145 With triangle mark. 

1 1- 6-74 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2253 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


B/72225 "Pragati Kaa Pahiya” 
(Documentary) 
(Hindi) (35rnm.) 


B/72215 “Film Faro Nite” 
(Documentary) 

(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm). 


B/72255 “Ujyoloko Khoji” 
(Nepali) (Col.) (35 
mm) (Documentary) 
(Nopal) 


U 

128-32(1) Mercury Movietone, Sushama Pahwa & 75146 P.E. 

109-Famous Cino Bldg. Ram Pahwa. — 

Bombay-11. 11-6-74 

U 

495 -60(2) Suudeop, 5/1 Naaz Kami Mehta, 5/1, 75147 

Bldg., Bomby-4, NaazBldg., Lamm- — — — 

Eton Road, 12-6-74 

Bombay-4. 

U 

268-00(1) Royal Nepal Film Cor- Royal Nepal Film Cor- 75148 P.E. 

poration Nepal. poration Khatmandu, — 

Nepal. 12-6-74 


B/72199 “Good Coffee Bru’’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


U 

30 -48(1) Film Media, 47-Laxmi Mr. Jyoti, G, Thakur 75149 

Insurance Bldg., Bom- Film Mdia. 

bay-1. 12-6-74 


B/72198 “Clever Girl, My 30-48(1) 
Wife” (English) (Col- 
our) (Advt,) 


B/72226 “Chidiyagarh Ki Sair 
(Hindi) (Colour) (Advt.) 


Do. 


Do. 


30-48(1) M/s Trio Films, Jyoti M/s Trio Films, Ken- 
Studio, Kennedy Sri- nedy Bridge, Bom- 
dgo, Bombay-7. bay-7. 


B/72227 “Picnic At Tho Zoo” 30-48(1) 

(English) (Colour) 

(35mm) (Advt.) 


Do. 


Do. 


75150 
12-6-74 

U 

75151 
12-6-74 

U 

75152 
12-6-74 


B/7225S “Indian Nows Roviow 
No. 1339” (Newsreel) 
(35mm.) 


194-46(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Poddar 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 


U 

75153 

12-6-74 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarathi, Tamil, 
Talngu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, As- 
sameso, Oriya & 
Bongali versions.) 


B/72259 “Indian Nows Review 267-61(1) 
No. 1339” (N. E.) 

(Nowscoel) (35mm.) 


B/72060 "What A Pity” (Eng- 51-00(1) 

lish) (Partly in col- 
our) (Documentary) 

(35mm.) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

75154 

12-6-74 

U 

75155 

12-6-74 


(Valid for English, 
■ Hindi, Pudjabi, 
Urdu versions.) 


B/72229 "36 Ghante” (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35mm) 


3859-99(15) M/sTilak Movies Pvt. M/s Tilak Movies Pvt. 

Ltd., Anand Villa, Ltd., Bombay-54. 

15th Road, Santa- 
cruz Bombay-54, 


U 

75156 


13-6-74 


B/72260 “Colour Vision Defi- 
ciencies” (English) 
(Colour) (16mm.) 
(UK.) 


228-60(1) Director, Health, Rail- British Transport Films 
way Board Ministry 
of Railways, New 
Delhi, 


U 

75157 P.E. 


13-6-74 


B/72261 “The City That Jaisal 
Built" (English) (Col- 
our) (Documentary) 
(35mm.) 


404 -00(2) Valmik Thapar, Nigar, Valmik Thapar, Nigar 
New Delhi. N. Delhi, 


U 

75158 Not P. E. 


13-6-74 


B/72146 “Clieeso-A Dehciuos 
Food” (Gorman) 

(Colour) (35mm) 
(Austria) 


378 -00(1) M/s Shyam Bengal Omig Wipplin-Gorstr- 
Sahyadri Films, Jvoli abb, 30-A-J0/3 Virnna. 
Studio, Bombay-7. 


I U 

75169 P.F. 


13-6-75 



2254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, i 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


D/72218 

B/72217 

B/72177 

B/77231 

B/72230 

B/72239 

B/72163 

B/72169 

B/72164 

B/72264 


B '7203 8 


“Festive Kerala-India” 
(Docnmentay (No 
Commentary, (Mu°ic 
only) (Colour) (3.3 
mm) 

“Elephant-India” (Do- 
mentary) No com- 
mentary, Music only) 
(Colour) (3Jmm) 

“Kashmir-Tndia” (Do- 
cumentary) (No 
Commentary, Music 
Only) (35mm) 

“Vision USA 22“ 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm) (USA) 


"Vision USA 21“ 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm) (USA) 

“Zaida Jaan Ka Du- 
slian” (Documen- 
tary) (Hindi) (Col- 
our) (35mm). 

“Room Service’' (En- 
glish) (1 6mm) (USA) 


“Sanitation : Rodent 
& I meet Con- 
trol” (English) (16mm) 
(USA). 

“The Bellman, Flail 
Porter" (English) 
(16mm) (USA) 

“Trailer of Call Girl’’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm) 

Endorsement 


U 

71 -00(1) Films Diviosin, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75160 Not P. E 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar 

Road, Bombay-26 Road, Bombav-26 14-6-74 


U 

59 00(1) Do. Do. 75161 Not P. E. 

14-6-74 

U 

54-00(1) Do. Do. 75162 Not P. E. 

14-6-74 


U 

290 -78(1) United States Tnfor- Steeg Productions, Inc. 75163 P.E. 

mation Service, 4- — 

New Marine Lines, 14-6-74 

Bombay,20. 

U 

315-77(1) Do. Thomas Craven Film 75164 P.E. 

Corporation, 

14-6-74 

U 

108 -81(1) Mr. Shreenivas Shelly, Mr. Slireenivas Shetty. 75165 

1 3-A Maulana Azad — 

Road, Bombay-1 1 . 14-6-75 


123-00(1) Air-India, Bombay Air- National Education 
port. Media Inc, 


106 -00(1) Air-Tndia, Bombay- Air- National Educational 
port. Media. 


U 

75166 P.E. 


15-6-74 

U 

75167 P.K. 
15-6-74 


98 00(1) Do. 


Do. 


U 

75168 P.E. 


15-6-74 

U 

82-60(1) Happy Films, Dhun Mukcsh Khanna, Naaz 75169 with triangle mark, 

Villa Varsava, Road, Cinema Bldg., Lamin- — 

Audhcri, Bombay-61. gton Road, Bombuy-4. 15-6-74 


Original Length : 91 -75 m. 

1. Delete tho shot of a man over a girl lying in bed.0-76m. 

2. Delete the shot of call girl approaching a man in bed and unbuttoning her dress — 1 -79 m. 

3. Delete the shot of a girl lying in bed and a man suggestively reclining ovor her — 1 -71 m. 

4. Delete the suggestive line : “Kuchh karo na” from the song sung by girl while enticing a boy— 1 -89 jn. 

Length of deletions : 1 -15m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 82 -60 m. 


A 

“Hawas” (Hindi) (Col- 3823-11(15) Mercury Productions, Mercury Productions, 3228 with triangle mark. 


our) (35mm). 


Shri Sound Studio, Shri Sound Studio, 

Dadar, Bombay-14. Dadar, Bombay-14. 11-6-74 

Endorsement 

Original Length 

: 3996 -96 

m. 

Cut 

Reel 


No. 

No. 


1 . 

I 

; Delete the shot of and refcrcnco to Syndicate Bank in the sequence of cheating of 
the jeweller by Anil — 1 -00m, 

2. 

111 

: Delete the entire sequence showing the modus operandi of smuggling of 
diamonds in plaster cast on Anil’s (eg — 123 -14m. 

3. 

IV 

; In the scene where Mr. Singh brings Anil to his house and lie is seen sitting opposite 
of Mrs, Singh delete the shots of Mrs. Singli kissing Anil in the lovo scene 
imagined by Mrs. Singh — 4 -46m, 

(b) In the scene of Shiv Kumar and Mrs. Singh in bed delete shot of Mrs, Singh 
kissing Ani! on his neck — 1 -44m. 



Part IIP- Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2255 


(1) (2) (3) 


(4) 


(5) (0 (7) 


(a) Delete the indecorous action of Anil caressing the arm of Neetu during the 
song “Kal raat usne...." — 0 -67m. Replaced approved shots ; 0 ■67m.) 

(b) Delete shots of Ncctu kissing Anil on the neck and the kiss between Anil and 
Neetu at the end of the reel as imagined by Neetu — 0 '65m. 

Delete the following indecorous gestures and actions: 

(0 Mrs. Singh lying on her back and wriggling with suggestive movements on the 
lines “Ye nawas kya hai” 1 -58m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1.58m.) 

(<7) Mrs. Singh indecorously caressing the arm and face of Anil with her lips and 
chewing his shirt collar— A -52m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -52m.) 

(iii) Mrs, Singh sitting on the ground and sliding forward and dosing and parting 
her legs to the tune of music upto the words "Pyasa tan hai pyasa man hai” — 

1 '87m. (Replaced with approved shots : 1 -87m.) 

(iv) Delete one shot of Mrs. Singh sitting on high pedestal and rubbing her legs 
suggestively. — 1 -41 m. (Replaced with approved shots : 1 -41m.) 

(a) Reduce to only bare suggestion the scene of Mrs. Singh killing her husband by 
drawing him in a bath tub. — 1 '22m. (Lengh retained : 2,00m.) 

(b) Reduce to the minimum the shots of Mrs. Singh torturing Ncctu with knife, — 

2 -61 m. ( Deleted completely) 

Reduce to bare minimum the gruesome face of the dead woman — 3 -16m. (Length 
retained : 0 -91 m.) 

Reduce drastically the torture and bearing of Anil by hirelings of Mrs. Singh— 
4 -24 m. (Length retained : 4 -lm.) 

(b) Delete the shot of Mrs. Singh torturing Anil’s blind sister with knife to bare sug- 
gestion. — 2 -13m. 

Reduce considerably the fight between Anil, Anil’s friends and Mrs. Singh’s hire- 
lings — 7 -29m. (Length retamed : 8 -70m.) 

Tn the Anal fight reduce drastically the fighting between the gang of Mrs. ~] 

Singh and the gang of Natwarlal, by deleting gruesome killings and hard i 1 ,, 
hitting punches and chops (length retamed : 13 -90m.) V23 oim. 

Delete the shots of killing by strangulation blood oozing out etc J 

Length of deletions : 182 -90m. 

Length of approved replacement : 6 -05 m. 

Actual loogth of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3823 11m. in 15 reels. 

A 

B/71368 “Ganga” (Hindi) (Col- 3479 -38(14) Green Light Films, 265 O.D. Talwar. 265-Frer 3229 

our) (35mm.) Frer Road, Bombay- 1 Road, Bombay- 1. -With triangle mark 

15-6-74 

Endorsement 

Original Length : 3501 -71m. 


Cut 

No. 

Heel 

No. 


Mis 

1 

Ill 

In the hand to hand fight between Ganga and Zamindar's Son 
reduce the fight by deleting hard hitting shots and chops on the 
stomach and chin, ......... 

(Length retained : 10 -67m.) 

9-14 

2 

IV 

Delete entwined legs and the portion where Sethji appears to 
be kissing a girl 

2-02 

3 

V 

Reduce the shot of Ganga and Bindu with entwined legs 
(Deleted completely) 

1 -42 

4 

VI 

Reduce the fight between Sheru and Ganga by deleting hard Idl- 
ing shots. . ......... 

(Length retained : 6 -18m.) 

4-94 

5 

XI 

Reduce the impact of violence by deleting some of the shots of 
dacoits getting killed during their encounter with police, 
(Length retained : 7 -32m.) 

3 -05 

6 

XII 

Reduce to a Hash dragging of a map tied to a horse 
(length Retained : 1 -52m.) 

1 -52. 

7 

Xlll 

Delete the indecorous gestures and posts of the cabaret dancer dur- 
ing the dance in hotel . .... 

(Rcplacod with approved shots : 11-89 m.) 

11 -89 

8 

XIV Reduce the close up of blood coming out of would from Ganga’s 
back .......... 

(Length retained : 0-19m.) 

0-24 


Length of deletions : 34 -22m. 

Length of approved replacement : 11 -89m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 -38 m, in 14 reels. 


4. 


VI 


5. VIII : 


6 . 


IX 


7. 

8 . 


XI 

Xll 


9. 

10 . 


xm 

XIV 



2256 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 : 

B/72228 

Film ; “A Winning Smoke” (Hindi) (Col.) 

U. Cert. No. 75127 of 4-6-1974 

This certificate) is also valid for English version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 10th Juno, 1974. 

B/67113 

Film : "Chorus” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 70707 of 19-9-1972 
Reel No. I: Deleted various shots : 213 '06 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 272 -94 mtis, in one reel. 

This certificate was endorsed on 10th June, 1974. 

B/71930 

Film : “Anjaan Raahen” (Hindi) (Col.) 

U-Cort. No. 74933 of 20-5-1974 

Reel No. VIII ; Deleted various shots : 40 '54 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bo : 3519 ’87 m. in 15 reels. 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th June, 1974. 

B/59283 

Film : "Artists Of The Sky" 

U-Cert. No,: 60525 of 25-3-1970 

Corrections :• — The No. of reels on the face of the certificate may be read as 2 instead of 1. 

This certificate was endorsed on 14th Juno, 1974. 

B/70625 

Film : “Krishan Chander” (Urdu) 

U-Cert. No. 74036 of 6-12-1973 

Corrections Tho length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 571 '0 m. instead of 572 '00 mtrs . 
This certificate was endorsed on 14th June, 1974. 

B/ 72029 

Film : "Chhatrapati Sliivaji" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74872 of 1-5-1974 

Corrections The length of the film on the face of the certificate may bo read as 528 -00 mtrs. instead of 539 00 
mtrs. 

This certificate was endorsed on 14th Juno, 1974, 


WEEK ENDING 1 5TH JUNE, 1974 


C-8038 

Make Light of Lifting 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm) U.K. 

213 -36(1) 

Overseas Publications 

Millbank Films Ltd. 
U.K. 

U 

73432 



Cal.-l. 

10-6-74 

C-8039 

Nobody’s Fault (Eng- 
lish) (Col) (16mm) 
UK. 

243 -84(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

73433 

10-6-74 

C-8042 

Pachish Chalchhc 

Chalbe (Bengali) 
35mm-India 

210-32(1) 

Voice & Vision 3, 

Madan St. 

Cal-13. 

Voice & Vision 

U 

73434 

12-6-74 

C-8043 

We Are 25 (English) 
(35mm.) India 

210-32(1) 

Do. 

MADRAS 

Do. 

U 

73435 

12-6-74 

M-8603 

•What It Takes’ (Eng- 
lish) (16mm.) B & W. 
USA 

219-45(1) 

Higgibothams (P) Ltd,, 
Madras. 

Westinghouse Eloctrie 
International Co., 
USA 

U 

67579 

11-6-74 

M-8604 

"Keep Them Protec- 
ted’ (English (Colour) 
(16mm) USA 

109 -72(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67580 

11-6-74 


2257 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 7 


M-8605 


M/8606 


M/8617 


M/8618 


M/8612 


The Wide World of in- 
duction Heating’ 
(English) (Colour) 
16mm. USA 

87-78(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67581 




11-6-74 

‘Transmission for To- 
morrow’ (English) 
(Colour) 16mm. USA 

197 50(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67582 




11-6-74 

'Annaiyar Iruvar’ (Ta- 
mil) 35mm, B&W. 

India 

610 00(2) 

Directorate of Infor- 
mation & Public Re- 
lations, Madias. 

Directorate of Infor- 
mation & Public Re- 
lations, Madias 

U 

67583 PE. 


11-6-74 

‘Paruthi Vclanmaikku 
Vazhi MuTaigal’ (Tarn- 
mil) 35mm. B&W. 

India 

305 -00(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67584 PE 




11-6-74 


'Nagaram Sagaram’ 
(Malayalam )35mm. 
B&W. India 


3632 '00(14) Thripthi Films, Bnnga- Thriplhi Films, Banga- U With cuts, 
lore lore 67585 


13-6-74 


Endoisemenl on cert. No. 67585-U dt. 13-6-74 issued lo the film ‘Nagaram Sagaram' (Malayalam) 35 mm. B&W. 
Length applied. 3633 '22 Mts. 

Cuts Mts. 


1 . Rod 8— Ddcto Basl’s words ‘What is inside the blouse” in the song ‘1 

lovo you Clousie’. (Sound only) — — 

2. Reel 11 — Shot of Malli’s legs, abdomen, downwards shown zooming for- 

ward and backward 1-22 

3. Reel 12— Delete Basi’s word Do not touch my private parts (Sound 

only) 


Total. 


1 -22 


Actual length will bo 3632 -00 Mts. in 14 Reels. 


M/8633 

‘Tamil nadu Govt. 
Regional News Bulletin 
No. 118’ (Tamil) 35mm 
B&W. India 

305 -00(1) 

The Directorate of In- 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madias 

The Directorate of In- 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madras 

U 

67586 

13-6-74 

M/8569 

‘Roshini Aur Andhcra’ 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

35mm. India 

3431 -44(14) 

Rasana Entei prises, 
Madras 

Rasana Enterprises, 
Madras 

U 

67587 

13-6-74 


M/8614 'Ungal Virupam’ (Ta- 3982 '80(14) Sri Chitfira Mahal, 
mil) 35mm. B&W Madras 

India 


Sri K. Krishnamurti, 
Madras 


a 

67588 With cuts. 


14-6-74 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67588-U dt. 14-6-74 issued to the film ‘Ungal Virupam’ (Tamil) 35 mm. B&W. 
Length applied 3884 -82 Mis. 

Cuts Mts. 

1, Reel 6 — Delete the fust shot of Song 2 — Raja Durai, Shown betwoon tho 

legs of Sakuntala 0-91 


2. Rod 11' — Delete tho words of Vccraswami — "Press button soukaryam— 

athaye vai”. 0 '91 


Total 


1 '82 


Actual legnth of the film will be 3982 -00 Mts. in 14 Reels, 

M/8607 ‘Electrical Proving 274 -32(1) Higginbothams (P) Ltd. Westignhousc Electric U 

Ground’ (Eng) (Coloui) Madras International Co. USA 67589 

16 mra, 4USA — 

15-6-75 



run GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGR AHA YANA 22, 1397) [Part III— Sec. 4 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY 
TIIE CENTAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 22ND JUNE, 


B/72242 “Hot Snow” (English) 2861 -00(10) Sovoxportfilm, Bakh- Mosfilm Studio, 

(Sovcolour) (Sov- tavar, Bombay-5, 

scope) (35 mm.) 


17-6-74 


B/72243 “Trailer of Hot Snow” 

(English) (Sovscope) 
(Sovcolour) (35 mm.) 


80 -00(1) 


1 7-6-74 


B/72240 “Tho Fight?” (English) 4384 00(20) 

(Sovcolour) (Sov- 
scope) (35 mm.) 


17-6-74 


B/7224I “Trailer of The Fight” 102-00 (1) 

(English) (Sovscope) 

(Sovcolour) (35 mm.) 


B/72270 “Treat It Squarely” 

(Advt.) (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 


22 -86(1) F. B. Productions, Film F, B. Productions, 
Contre 68-Tardeo 
Road, Bombay-34. 


18-6-74 


B/72271 “Khushi Ka Bhad” 

(Advt.) (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 


30 -48(1) Animatod Advertising, Animaled Advertising. 
57 Ghoga Street, 

Indira Villa, Fort, 

Bombay- 1. 


18-6-74 


B/72263 


“Kis Ka Nuksaan” 129-54(1) V. S. Enterprises, 11. Miss Vimala, V. S. 75176 


(Documentary) 
(Hindi) (35 mm.) 


Ram-Shyam Niwas, Enterprises. 
S. D. Temple Rd., 

Bombay-16. 


18-6-74 


B/71840 


“Heart of Russia” 1112 -00(10) USSR Consulate Gen- Mosfilm Studio. 


(Russian with Tamil 
Commentary) (Col.) 
(16 mm.) 


oral, Bombay. 


18-6-74 


B/71841-2 “Funny Fellow From 978 00(9) 
5th B” (Punjabi & 

Telugu) (USSR) (16 
mm). 


Maxim Gorky Film 
Studio. 


18-6-74 


B/72197 “Tho Experience” 

(English) (Colour) 
(Advt.) (35 mm.) 


30 -48(1) Climb Films, Aran Climb. Films, 
Chambers, Tardeo 
Road, Bombay-34. 


18-6-74 


B/72296 


“Indian News Reviow 213 00(1) Films Division, Govt, Films Division, Govt. 


No. 1340” (Newsreel) 
(35 mm.) 


of Tndia, 24-Pcddar of India, 24-Peddar 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26- 19-6-74 


(Valid for English, 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarathi, Tamil, 
Telugu, Kannada, 
Malayalam, Panjnbj, 
Kashmiri Urdu ’ 
& Sindhi versions.) 


B/72295 


“Indian News Review 297 -00(1) 
No. 1340“ (Eastorn 
Edition) (35 mm.) 

(Newsreel) 


75181 (Valid for English, 

Hindi, Bongali 

19-6-74 Assamose, Oriya, 
vorsions.) 


B/72294 “Indian News Review 288 -34(1) 

No. 1341(A)" (News- 
reel) (35 mm.) 


75182 (English, Hindi, 
— — — Marathi, Gujarati, 

19-6-74 Tamil, Telugu, 

Kannada, Malaya- 
lam, Bongali 

Oriya, Assamose, 
Punjabi, Urdu, 

Kashmiri & Sindhi 

vorsions.) 


B/72280 “Mahiti Chltra No. 237-74(1) Liaison Officer, Govt. Diroctor, of Informa- 75183 

184" (Gujarati) of Gujarat, Bombay- tion Govt, of Gujarat, 

(Newsreel) (35 mm.) 1. 19-6-74 


2259 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OB UNDfA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


1 


2 


3 4 


5 


6 7 


B/ 72292-93 

“Raiyabhishok" (Eng- 
lish) (Col.) (35 mm.) 

276 -0o(l) 

Director General ofln- 
formation & Public 
Relation, Govt, of 
Maharashtra. 

Director General of In- 
formation &, Public 
Relation. 

U 

75184 

(Valid for Hindi, 
Marathi versions.) 



19-6-74 

B/72291 

“Ala Kharipacha 

Hangam” (Documen- 
tary) (Marathi) (35 
mm.) 

“Trailor of Chowkidar" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) 

B97 -84(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

LI 

75185 



B/72272 

103 -63(1) 

Namrata Movies. 

Famous Cine Bldg., 
Bombay- 

Gopal Ralhan, Ncm- 
rata Movies, Famous ■ 
Cine Bldg,, Bombay. 

19-6-74 

U 

75186 

With triangle 

mark. 



20-6-74 


B/72262 


B/722S9 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 104 46 m, 

Metres 

1. Reduce tho shot showing one of tho goondas raping a village girl. (Length 

retainod : 0 13 m.) ......... 0 -49 

2. Delete the shot showing Doctor’s piercing tho eyo of a goondn fight- 
ing with the Doctor. 0 '34 

Length of deloliom : 0 '83 in. 

Actual length of tho film after the aforesaid deletions will bo ; 103 -63 m, 

U 

“Apni Garibi Aap 289-56(1) O. P. Mishra, C/o. O. M, Prakash Mishra 75187 


Mitayen” (Hindi) Cino tricks & Effects, & S. S, Saxcna. P.E. 

(35 mm.) 108, Main Road, 20-6-74 

Bombay 

U 

“Primary kit” (English) 405.69(2) Deptt, of Teaching Deptt of Teaching 75188 

(Documentary) (35mm.) Aids (N. C. E. K, T) Aids. (N. C. E. — P.E. 

Indraprast Estate. K. T.) 20-6-74 


B/72287 

B/72284 

B/72286 

B/72290 

B/72285 

B/72288 

B/71906 


U 


“Know Your Biology 
Kit Part T (Botany) 
(English) (16 mm,) 

114-30(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75189 

20-6-74 

LI 

P.E, 

“Know Your Biology 
Kit Part III” (Human 
Phiysiology) (Fnglish) 
(16 mm.) 

201 -47(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

75190 

20-6-74 

U 

P.E, 

“Prarambhik Bhau- 
tikoo Shikshan" 

(Hindi) (35 mm.) 

545 -49(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

75191 

20-6-74 

U 

P.E. 

“Teaching Elementary 
Physics" (English) 

(35 mm.) 

545 -59(2) 

Do, 

Do. 

75192 

20-6-74 

TJ 

P.E. 

“National Scictnco 

Exhibition" (English) 
(35 mm.) 

504-14(2) 

Do. 

Do, 

75193 

20-6-74 

U 

P.E. 

“Living Together” 

(English) (35 mm.) 

588 -26(2) 

Do. 

Do. 

75194 

20-6-74 

U 

P.E. 

“Trailor of Pat that 
Aur Payal” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 

94-18(1) 

S. Kamruddin, C/o. P. D, Singh, L. P. 
Bombay Film Lab. Singh. 

Pvt. Ltd., Bombay-28. 

75195 

22-6-74 

With triangle mark. 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 103 -65 m. 

Metres 

1 , Delete the low angle close shot of cabaret dancer. (Blown up) 

2, Delete (ho dialogue botweon the dacoit and his aide : “Laundia kafi jor- 

daar hai Aup ke samne is rnaal ko loot loon," — — — 4-88 

3, Reduce gruesome shots of violence. (Length rotainod : 6 -40 m.) . . 4 -59 

Longth of deletion : 9 *47 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will bo : 94-18 m. . 


16-36901/75 



2260 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 



(4) 


(5) (6) 


(7) 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 : 


B/72260 

rilm : “Pin Before You Pont” (Fnglish) 

U-Cert. No. 73793 of 9-1 1-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for (he following versions of the films under the titles indicated against each of them. 


Hindi 

Marathi 

Gnjiati 

Tamil 

Teltigu 

Kannada 

Malayalam 

Assamese 

Punjabi 

Bengali 

Oriya 

Urdu 


Pata Ko Sath Pin Code Number 
Patyat Pin Code Number Liha 
Saj-iutma Man Pin Code Lakhu 
Thapal Kuri F.n 
Tapiila Sankaryum 
Tapal Pin Code 
Thapal Pin Number 
Thipnnat pin Code Diba 
Pata Liklio , Pin De Naal 
Chithir Thikanny Pin Code 
Tbikanare Pin Code Lekhantu 
Pata, Pin Code Ke Snath. 


The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 17th June, 1974. 

B/70579 

Film : “Dharmendra Plays Pocketmaar” 

U-Ccrt. No. 74795 of 18-4-9174. 

Metres 


1 

Deleted various shols 

11-94 

11 

Deleted various shols 

20 -73 

111 

Deleted various shots 

86 -87 

XJJ1 : 

Deleted various shots 

72 -74 

XIV : 

Deleted various shots 

20 -39 


Length of deletions : 212-67 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3964 -03 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th June, 1974. 

B/71574 

Film : “Call Girl" (Hindi) 

A— Cert. No. 3227 of 28th May, 1974. 

Metres 

Reel No. IX : In Song begining with the words "Dil Jale to koi kya 

karc kuehh kaho tu ” 

added “Koi yaha gair nahin Mcra hath 1c lo" along 

with the picturisation. . . ■ ■ • • 15-23 

Actual length of the flint after the aforesaid additions will be : 3347 -66 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th June, 1974. 

B/72348-53 

Film : “Philips (Lights) (English) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 74927 of 18-5-1974. 

Tills certificate is also valid for Tehtgu, Hindi, Kannada, Tamil, Malayalam and Bengali versions of the film in 
colour. The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 21st June, 1974. 


Week Ending 22nd June, 1974 


C/8045 


C/8044 


C/8046 

C/8033 


M/8619 


Hironmoy Parikrama 
(Bengali) 35 mm. 
India. 


610-00(2) Aurora Film Corpora- Aurora Film Corpora- 
tion P. Ltd. 175, tion P. Ltd. 
Dharamtala St, Cal.- 
13. 


U 

73436 


17-6-74 


Trailer of ‘Daabi' 
(Flcngali) 35 mm. 
India. 


94-45(1) Kalpana Movies P. Kalpana Movies P. 
Ltd. 59, Bentiuck St., Ltd. 

Calcutta-] . 


U 

73437 


17-6-74 


Umno - O - Thumno 3,432-66(13) 
(Bengali) 35 mm. 

India. 


Somen Chitram, 25-G, Somen Chatterjee 
Raja Bagan Lane, 

Cal-30. 


Prancr Hillol (Bengali) 14 -24(1) Nishaan Motion Pic- Sohrab Boga, Bombay. 
33 mm, India. tures, Bombay. 


U 

73438 

19-6-74 

U 

73439 
22-6-74 


U 

‘Roshakari’ (Tamil) 4458 00(17) J c yam Combines, Jeyam Combines, 67590 
35 mm. B & W. Madras. Madras. — — — - With cuts. 

India. 


17-6-74 



PART III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA, DECEMBER 13, 19/5 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2261 


(l) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


Endorsement : 

Cert. No. 67590— U dt. 17-6-74 issued to the film ‘Roshakari’ (Tamil) 35 mm. B & W. 

Length applied 4466 -22 Metres. 

Cuts. Metres 


2 . 


Reel 5 - - 

Delete in song 2 — Kala's motion of moving her bust close to 
Raghu's lips on the line “Pidithal etc." (Replaced approved 
shot 1 -52). ......... 

1 -52 

Reel 3 — - 

Delete whenever Kala moves with legs apart, showing cleavage. 
(Replaced approved shot 0 -91). ...... 

0 -91 

Real 16 — - 

Delete the words of Ekambaram "Padinaru Vayadhu Pullainga 
. . , .Meesai Mulachudhu Pasangal.” till the sentence refers to 
Raghu. 

8-22 


Total : 

10-65 


(7) 


Total replacement 2 -43 MU. Actual length 4458 -00 Mts. in 17 Reels. 


M/8623 

M/8643 

M/8644 

M/852« 

M/8527 

M/8528 

M/8528 

M/8613 

M/8625 


M/8634 


‘Akhiri 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
35 mm. India. 


Nishan’ 3651 -50(14) lTemalata Films Shri Manu Madnani, 
(Madras), Madras. Madras. 


‘Varthachitra 30' 
(Kannada) 35 mm. B. 
& W. India, 


289 -56(1 ) Director of Tnforma- Director of Informa- 
tion & Publicity, Ban- tion & Publicity, 
galore. Bangalore. 


•Vartha Chitra 31’ 
(Kannada) 35 mm. B 
& W. India. 


U 

67591 

17-6-74 

U 

67592 

18-6-74 

U 

67593 


289 -56(1) Do. Do. 

18-6-74 

Central Board of Film Censors, Madras-6. Particulars of films certified during week ending 22-6-1974. 


‘Kno Your Car’ 
(English) 16 mm. B & 
W. USA. 

‘Kow Airplanes Fly’ 
(English) 16 mm. B St 
W. USA. 

‘Basic Electricity Cur- 
rent Flow, What It is” 
(English) 16 mm. B St 
W. USA. 

‘Basic Electricity A. 
C. Parallel Circuit' 
(English) 16 mm. B St 
W. USA. 

‘nanwani’s Tailors’ 
(English) 35 mm, B & 
W. India. 


164-58(1) Headmaster, Govt, National Audio Visual 
High School, Bunga- Centre, Washington, 


U 

67594 


Iowpudur. 


USA. 


197-50(1) 


43 -89(1) 


43 -89(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


36 -00(1) Gopi Cine 
Madras. 


Arts, Gopi Cine 
Madras 


Arts, 


19-6-74 

U 

67595 

19-6-74 

U 

67596 
19-6-74 


U 

67597 

19-6-74 


U 

67598 

20- 6-74 
U 

67599 

21- 6-74 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


P.E. 


‘Night Club Mohini’ 3801 -76(15) Blue Mount Pronds., Blue Mount Pronds-, 

(Tamil) 35 mra. B & Madras. Madras. 

W. India. 

Endorsement '■ 

Cert. No. 67599-U dt. 21st June 1974 — issued to the film ‘Night Club Mohini’ (Tamil). 
Length applied ; 3822 ■ 17 Mts. 

Cuts. Metres 

1. Reel 5— Delete the action of Jill Jill in dance before the police action. 20 -41 

2. Reel 11— Delete the shot of Babu hitting Kalpana on her posterior. (Re- 

placed birs flying) 1-52 


With cuts. 


Total : 

Total replacement 1-52 Mts. Actual length is 3S0I -76 Mts. in 15 Reels. 


21 -93 


Trailer of ‘O Scetha 
Kathc’ (Telugu) 35 
mm. B & W. India. 


125-00(1) Sovereign Cine Enter- Sovereign Cine Enter- 
prises, Madras. prises, Madras. 


U 

67600 

21-6-74 



2262 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


— 





.... 

— ■ 





1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

M/8622 

‘Kurangu Manani’ 

(Tamil) 35 mm. B & 
W. India, 

610 '00(2) 

The Directorate of In- 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madras. 

The Directorate of In- 
formation & Public 
Relations, Madras. 

U 

67601 




21-6-74 


M/8630 

‘Higgina Kunita’ 

(Kannada) (Colour) 
35 mm. India, 

15 -24(1) 

Shri Gopal K. Maha- 
resb, Madras. 

Shri Sohrab Boga, 
Madras. 

U 

67602 




21-6-74 


M/8631 

‘Janapada Nrutyam' 
(Tclugu) (Colour) 

35 nnn. Tndia. 

15 -24(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67603 






21-6-74 


M/8632 

‘Bangra Natanam’ 

(Tamil) (Colour) 

33 mm. India. 

1 5 -24(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

67604 






21-6-74 


M/8562 

‘Frontiers in Compu- 
tor Graphics’ (Eng.) 

(Colour) 16 mm. 

USA. 

‘The Museum of 
Modern Art Film 

Library’ (English) 

(Colour) 16 mm. 

USA. 

IBM-Tho Graphic 

System' (English) 

(Colour) 1 6 mm. 

USA. 

Laboratory Automa- 
tion Based System 
(English) (Colour) 

16 mm. USA. 

79 '23(1) 

I. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn., Madras. 

Do. 

Pacific Productions, 
USA. 

Shri Jodo-Whitncy, 
USA. 

I. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn., USA. 

T. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn., USA. 

U 

67605 


M/8563 

75 46(1) 

21-6-74 

U 

67606 


M/8564 

67 -91(1) 

Do. 

21-6-74 

U 

67607 


M/8565 

86 47(1) 

I. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn., Madras. 

21-6-74 

U 

67608 




21-6-74 


M/8566 

‘MIS Shop Tracking’ 
(English) (Colour) 

16 mm. USA. 

67 -91(1) 

I. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn,, Madras. 

Aerolog for Graumann 
Aircraft, USA. 

U 

67609 




21-6-74 


M/8567 

‘Time Sharing Option’ 
(English) (Colour) 

16 mm. USA. 

45 -27(1) 

Do. 

I. B. M. World Trade 
Corpn., USA. 

U 

67610 





21-6-74 


M/8636 & 37 

‘New Era In Seri- 
culture’ (English & 
Kannada) 35 mm. B 
& W. India. 

466 00(2) 

Shri H. M. K. Murthy, 
Bangalore. 

Shri H. M. K. Murthy, 
Bangalore. 

U 

67611 




22-6-74 


M/8629 

‘Radhamma Pclli’ 

(Telugu) 35mm B& 

W. India. 

4799 '68(18) 

Sri Lakshminarasimha 
Productions, Madras, 

Sri Lakshminarasimha 
Productions, Madras. 

U 

67612 




22-6-74 



B/72283 


B/72257 


PARTICULARS of films certified or refused certification by the central 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 29TH JUNE, 1974 


U 

“Doosri Seeta" (Hindi) 3007 47(12) Bobber Films, 2-Ap- B. S. Khanna & J. L. 75196 

(Colour) (35 mm.). sara Apartment, Bubber, 2-Apsara — — — 

Bandra-50. Apartment, Bombay-50 24-6-74 


U 

“Chowkidar" (Hindi) 3946 ’25(16) Namrata Movies, Fa- Gopal Ralhan 75197 with triangle mark. 

(Colour) (35 mm.) mous Cine Bldg., — 

Mahalaxmi, 24-6-74 

Bombay- 11. 

Endorsement — 

Original Length : 3964 ’23 m. 

Sr. Cut 
No. No. 

1 . VIE Delete suggestion of kiss between Jagirdar Gopal and the dancer 

while sitting on a coach , . , . , . . 3 00 m. 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2263 


1 


B/71926 

B/72343 

B/72244 

B/72245 

B/72249 

B/72247 

B/72219 

B/72220 

B/72224 

B/72222 

B/ 72237 

B/72233 


2 3 4 


5 


6 7 


Sr. Cut 

No, No. 


2. Xll : Reduce to half shots showing Doctor being dragged by means 

of a rope by Copal on a horse ...... 

(Length retained : 3 -96 m.) 

3. XIV : Tn the fight between Doctor and Jagirdar’s face smeared with 

blood. .......... 

4. XV : Delete the shot showing chotvkidai’s stick piarcing the eye of . 

goonda who has fallen down, ...... 

5. XVT : Reduce the overall impact of fight between Doctor and G opal 

with his aides by deleting gruesome close shots of hitting on the 
face and stomach. ........ 

Length of deletions : 17 -98 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 3946 '25 m in 16 reels 

"Sati Arundhali” 3908-15(15) Virendra Kumar Agar- Giriraj Movies, Hy- 
(Marathi) (35 mm.). wal Giriraj Movies, drabad-2. - 

C/o Bombay Guest 
house, Bombay 26 


4 -22 m. 

1 -83 m. 
1 -6 m. 

7 -87 m. 

U 

75198 

24-6-74 


‘Trailer of Ghatna” 70-00(1) Aradhana Films, Aradhana Filins, 
(Hindi) (Colour) Bombay-50. Bombay-50. 

(35 mm.). 


"The Man From The 2675 -00(10) Sovexport film Colaba, A Gorky Film Studio 
Other Sido” (English) Bombay-5. 

(Sovscopo) (Sovco- 
lour) (35 mm.)(USSR) 


“Trailer of The Man 70 -00(1) Do. Do. 

From the Other Sido" 

(English) (Sovscopc) 

(Sovecolour) (35 mm.) 

(USSR). 


U 

75199 

24-6-74 

U 

75200 
24-6-74 

U 

75201 
24-6-74 


"Trailer of Ruslan and 
Ludmila” (English) 
(Sovecolour) (35 mm.) 

“Trailer of The Re- 
public’s Property” 
(English) (Sovscopc) 
(Soveolout) (35 mm.) 
(USSR). 

“Kerala I-lndia" (No 
Commentary) (Music 
Only) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (Documentary). 


U 

114-00(1) Do. Do. 75202 


24-6-74 

U 

80-00(1) Do. Do. 75203 


24-6-74 


U 

73 -00(1) Films Division, Govl. Films Division, Govt. 75204 
of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24- Pcddar ■ — ■ — — 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 25-6-74 


Not P.E. 


“Ganges-India" (No 59 -00(1) Do. 

Commentary) (Music 
Only) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (Documentary) 

"Manipur-Tndia” (No 54 -00(1) Do. 

Commentary) (Music 
Only) (Colour) (35 
mm). (Documentary) . 

“Korala Il-India" (No 78 -00(1) Do. 

Commentary, Music 
Only) (Colour) 

(35 mm.). 

‘‘ Men "of War” (English) 182-88(1) National Education & 
(16mm.) (U. K.) Information Films Ltd., 

Bombay-1. 


“Perfect Day” (Eng- 182 '88(1) Do. 

lish) (16mm.) (U.K.) 


U 

Do. 75205 Not P.E. 


25-6-74 


U 

Do. 75206 Not P.E. 

25-6-74 


U 

Do. 75207 Not P.E. 

25-6-74 


U 

Mountain Films Ltd., U-75208 Not P.E 


25-6-74 

U 

Do. 75209 NotP.E. 


25-6-74 



2264 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III-— Sf.c. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/72209 

B/72236 

B/72238 

B/72344 

B/72387 

B/72386 

B/72196 

B/72266 

B/72265 

B/72143 

B/72142 

B/72330 

B/72277 

B/72346 


“Script to Screen" 259 -08(1) Do. 

(English) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (Canada) 


U 

Do. 75210 P.E. 


25-6-74 


“Blotto" (English) 192 '88(1) Do. 

(16 mm.) (U.K.). 


U 

Do. 75211 Not P.E. 


25-6-74 


“One Good Turn" 
(English) (16 mm.) 
(U.K.) 


‘Mahiti Chitra No. 
185" (Gujarati) (35 
mm.) (Newsreel) 


U 

182-88(1) National Education & Mountain Films Ltd. 75212 Not P.E. 

Information Films 

Ltd., National House 25-6-74 

Tullach Road, Bom- 
bay- 1. 

U 

243 -84(1) Liaison Officer, Govt. Director of Informa- 75213 

of Gujarat, Bombay-1 tion Govt, of Gujarat — • — - — ■ — - 

26-6-74 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1341" (Southern 
Edition) (35 mm.) 


“Indian News Review 
No. 1341” (Newsreel) 
(35 mm.). 


“Strange Planet" 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) (Geneva). 


U 

296 -90(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75214 (Valid for English, 

of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24- Peddar — Hindi, Tamil, Tel- 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 26-6-74 gu, Kannada, 

Malayalam ver- 
sions.) 

U 

212 -75(1) Do. Do. 75215 (Valid for English, 

— — Hindi, Marathi, 

26-6-74 Gujarati, Bengali, 
Assamese, Onya, 
Punjabi, Kashmiri 
and Urdu ver- 
sions). 


365 -76(1) Director, T.V. Centre Rolox Films 


U 

75216 P.E. 


26-6-74 


“Vinod Khanna Ki 
Shooting” (Hindi) 
(Colour) Advt. 

(35mm.). 


“Zlnda Dil Logon 
Ki Pasand” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(Advt.). 


U 

27 -43(1) Video Arts, Figure Video Arts. Bombay-1 75217 

Ara, 160-Churchgatc, 

Reclamation, Bom- 26-6-74 

bay-1. 

U 

27-43(1) Do. Do. 75218 


26-6-74 


"The Camera” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (35 
mm.) (Advt.). 


30 -48(1) F. B. Productions, F. B, Productions 
Film Centre, 68-Tar- 
deo Road, Bombay- 
34. 


U 

75219 


26-6-74 


U 

“Mother Care" (Eng- 30 -48(1) Do. Do. 75220 

lish) (Colour) (Advt.) — — — 

(35 mm.). 26-6-74 


U 

“The Makers of The 847 00(3) Shri Gopal K. Maha- Shri S, Sukhdev, Uni- 75221 P.E. 


Green 
(English) 
(35 mm.) 

Revolution" 

(Colour) 

resh, General Mana- 
ger, M/s. United 

Filin Arts, Bombay-1*. 

ted Film 
bay-18. 

Arts, Bom- - 

26-6-74 

‘Blue Jet’ 
(Colour) 
(35 m.) 

’ (English) 
(Advt.) 

30 -48(1) Radio Advertising 

Services, Cecil Court 
Lansdowne Road, 
Bombay-1. 

Radio 

Services. 

Advertising 

U 

75222 


26-6-74 


U 

"Maharashtra” (Eng- 430-00(2) Maja Mediums, C/21, Maja Mediums 75223 

lish) (Col.) (Docu- Tardeo Air Condi- — — _____ 

mentary) (35 mm,). tioned Market, Bom- 26-6-74 

bay-34. 



Part III — Sec. 4]THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2265 


B/70537 


B/72130 


B/72176 


B/72341 


B/72281 


B/72354 


B/72298 


B/71121 


B/72137 


B/72367 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

B/72334 

“Face To Face” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (35 

mm.) (Advt.). 

30 -48(1) 

M/s Film, 5, Jyoti 
Studio, Kennedy 

Bredge, Bombay-7, 

M/s. Film 5, 

B/72333 

“Come Closer” (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (35mm) 
(Advt,). 

30-48(1) 

Do. 

Do, 

B/72340 

"Trailer of Pyase Dil” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35 mm,), 

Endorsement — • 

85 -34(1) 

New Ashoka Inter- 
national. 

New Ashoka 
national. 


LJ 

75224 

26-6-74 

U 

75225 

26-6-74 

U 

75226 With triangle mark. 


26-6-74 


Original Length : 85.95m. 

Delete the shot of a comedian pushing his buttock up while the nurse is holding 
injection in her hand 
Length of deletion : 0 61 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions mil be : 85 ’34 m, 


0 -61 m. 


“D.M.S,’' (English) 
(Documentary) (35 

Mm.). 


327 00(2) Films Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 

of India, 24- Peddar of India, 24-Peddar 

Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 


U 

75227 


P.E. 


“The Rainbow Boys” 2527 -40(10) Film Finance Corpo- Canadian Film Deve- 
(English) (Colour) ration, 91- Walkcsh- lopment Corporation 

(35mm.) (Canada). war Road, Bombay-6 

Endorsement — 

Original Length : 2529 -64 m. 

Delete the underlined words from the undermentioned dialogue: 

Cut Page 

No. No. 

1. 40 

2 . 

Length of Deletions : 2 -24 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2527 -40m 


26-6-74 
U 

75228 With triangle maik 


26-6-74 


“Screwing” spoken by Gladys to Logan —0.24 m.. 

Delete the close shots of Play boy pm ups displayed on wall in Logan’s shack- -2.00 m. 


“Jai Hind” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(Documentary) 


292 00(1) Vithal&Co. 


Vithal & Co. 


jnu (Hindi) (Colour) 


“A Historic Visit-Mr. 1172 -00(4) 
Brctthnov In India” 

(English) (Colour) 
(Documentary) 35mm) 

"Bulgaria’s Prime 694 -62(3) 

Minister Mr. Stanko 
Todorov Visits India” 

(English) (Documen- 
tary) (35 mm.). 

“Synthesis" (English) 114-00(1) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(Documentary), 


U 

75229 

27-6-74 
U 

75230 

27-4-74 
U 

Films Division, Govt, Films Division, Govt. 75231 
of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddar — ■ — — 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 27-6-74 


P. E. 


Dastan-E-Laila Ma- 3955-69(15) Chandra Art, Sushil Chandra Art. 


Vihar, Vile Parle, 
Bombay-57. 


Not P.E. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


"Aashirwad” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (Advt.) 


U 

75232 

27-6-74 


U 

75233 

29-6-74 
U 


P.E. 


30-48(1) Prakash Arora, Arora Prakash Arora, Arora 75234 
Films, Arora Hospital Films Bombay-52. — — — 

Bombay-52. 29-6-74 


"I.C.I. America Shows 277 -06(1) 
its Colour” (English) 

(Colour) (16 mm) 

(U.S.A.). 


C.I, (India) Private Imperial Chamfcal 
Ltd,, Crescent House Industries Ltd., 
19-Walchand Hira- 
chand Marg, Bom- 
bay-1. 


U 

75235 


“Gupt Gyanamu” 3699 12(14) Adarsh Arts, Man ek B, K. Adarsh, Adarsh 
(Telugu) (Colour) Chambers, Bombay-4. Arts. Bombay-4. 

(35 mm,). 


29-6-74 


A 

3230 


Not P.E. 


P.E. 


24-6-74 



2266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13. 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


Endorsement Under Rute 34 
B/72297 

Film : “Portrait of u Humanist’’ (English) 

U-Cert. No. 74842 of 26-4-1 974. 

This certificate is also valid for the following versions of the Him undor the titles indicated against each cf them, 


Hindi 

. Manav Vad Ka F.k Pujuri 

Malayalam 

. Oru Mnnushyasnehi 

Marathi 

. Manavtecha Ek Pujnri 

Assamoso 

. Egaraki Manabatar Pujari 

Gujarati 

Manavatavudini Tasvir 

Punjabi . 

. Insaniyat Da Pujari 

Tamil , 

. Manidabhimani Balraj Sahani 

Bengali . 

. Manabatar Ek Pujari 

Teiugu . 

Manavatawadi 

Oriya 

Manabatar Jane Pujari 

Kannada 

. OBBA Manavatavadi 

Urdu 

, Insaniyat Ka Pujari 


The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974. 

B/72267-68 

Film : “Ramon Bonus Stamps” (English & Hindi) (Colour) 

U- Cert. No. 73657 of 18-10-1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Marathi versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 24th June, 1974 
B/72278 

Film : “Cheranu" (English) 

U. Cert. No. 72863 of 16-7-1973 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. The longth of the film remains unchanged. 
This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974. 

B/71851-7 

Film : “Philips” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No, 74662 of 25-3-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Oriya, Kannada, Marathi, Teiugu, Tamil and Gujarathi versions of the 
film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974. 

B / 72299 

Film : "Based on trust” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 75121 of 1st June, 1974. 

Tills certificate is also valid for the following versions of the film under the titles indicated against each of them. 


Hindi . 

. Wishwas Ki Baat 

Marathi 

, Vishwasachi Bab 

Gujarati 

. Vishwasni Vaat 

Tamil 

, Nambikkai 

Teiugu . 

, Naninakamu 

Kannada 

. Nambiko 


Malayalam 
Assamese 
Punjabi . 
Bengali . 
Oriya 
Urdu 


Viswasam 

Scito Bishwasar Katha 
Wishwas Di Gall 
Biswascr Par 
Biswasar Katha 
Bharose Ki Baat. 


The length of the film romains unchanged. 
B/72058 

Film : “Paap Aur Punya” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 75113 of 1-6-1974 
Reel No. 

V Deleted various shots 
IX Deleted various shots 
XTI Deleted various shots 
XIV Deleted various shots 
XVI Deleted various shots 
XVII Deleted various shots 


This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974. 


14 -33 m. 
12 -50 m. 
219-15 m. 
49 -37.m. 
5 -18 m. 
21 -95 m. 


Length of deletions : 322 -48 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4070 -60m. in 11 reels, 
This certificate was endorsed on 25th Juno, 1974 

B/72229 

Film : "36 Ghante" (Hindi) (Col,) 

U-Cert. No. 75156 of 13-6-1974. 

Reel No. V : Deleted various shots : 137-16 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3722 -83 m . in 15 reels. 
This Certificate was endorsed on 29th June, 1974. 



Part III— Sf.c. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2267 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 6 7 


C/8047 


C/8048 


C/8055 


M/8640 


M/8641 


U 

Trailer of ‘Bikaley 91 -44(1) K. L, Kapoor Films K. L. Kapoor Films 73440 

Bliorer Phool’ (Ben- II, Ganesh Chandra -- — — 

gali) (35 mm.) Avenue, Calcutta-13 25-6-74 

(India) 

U 

Bikaley Bhorer Phool 3,957 -S3(15) Do. R. N. Malhotra & 73441 

(Bengali) (35 mm.) R. K. Kapoor - — 

(India). 25-6-74 

U 

Pnschim Banga Stir- 320'00(1) Parijat Basu Produc- Dept, of InfoiTna- 73442 

karor Sangbad Chltra tions 1/32-F, Prince tion & Public Rcla- ■ — ■ 

(58) (Newsreel) (Ben) Golnm Mohammad tions Govt, of West 27-6-74 

gali) (35mm ((rndiu). Road, Cal-26. Bengal Writers Buil- 

dings, Calcutta-1. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS, REGIONAL OFFICE, MADRAS-6 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 29-6-74 

U 

‘Anaganaga Oka 4625-34(16) Lavanya Pictures, Shri B. Uma Mahcs- 67613 

Thandri' (Teltigu) Madras. vvaram (Mahcsh), — — With Cuts 

(35 mm.) B & W. Madras. 25-6-74 

(India). 

Endorsement on Cert. No. 67613-U dt 25th June 1974 — -issued to the film ‘Anaganaga Oka Thandri’ (Tclugu), 
Length applied : 4634 -78 Mts. 

Cuts. Mts. 

Reel 13 — Delete the entiio sequence of Singanna molesting Lakshmi in hay- 
stack to a suggestion only, especially deleting his lying over her and 
kissing hei several times. (No objection to the portion of the shot 
in the end when Ramamurthy comes there and throws a atone aim- 
ing it at Singanna), (Retained 0 09) . ... 9-44 


Total . , . 9-44 


Actual length of the film will he 4625 -34 Mts. In 16 Reels 

U 

’Swathi Nakshathi- 4357-24(15) Ashok Pictures, Ashok Pictures, 67614 With Cuts 

ram’ (Tamil) (Partly Madras Madras 

colour) (35 mm) 26-6-74 

(India). 


Endorsement on cert, No, 67614-U dt. 26th June 1974— issued to the film ‘Swathinakshathiram’ (Tamil). 
Length applied : 4364-10 Mts. 


Cuts. Mts. 

l.Roel 6 Delete (a) the close-up of the exposed thigh of Kannamma ; (b) the 
action of George’s removing belt and unbuttoning pants at the 
sight of Kannamma. ...... 4-86 


Total ... 4 -86 


M/8638 


M/7817 


M/8628 


M/8620&21 


Actual length of film will he 4359 24 Mts. In 15 Reels. 

Total colour portion is 598 -31 Mts. in Reels 5, 7, 8, 11, 12 & 15. Black & White portion will be 3760 -93 Mts. 


Trailer of ’Bhoogo- 131 -06(1) Raja Silpi 
lam Thiriyunnu’ Madias 

(Malayalam) (35 mm.) 

B & W (India) 


U 

Films, Shri P. Sreekumaran 67615 
Thumpi, Madras • — - — • — - — - 

27-6-74 


Satrang Cinestrip-35 60 -96(1) Filmaids, Madras 
(Music with English 
titles) (35 mm.) 
fl& W (India) 


Shri Satish 
Madras 


U 

Kumar, 67616 P.E. 


27-6-74 


Krishna veni’ (Telugu) 4214-46(16) Narendra Interna- Gopikrishna 
(Color) (35 mm.) tional, Madras. Madras 

(I ndia) 


U 

Movies, 67617 


28-6-74 


Super Tasto (English 30-48(1) Durga Khote Prodns, 
& Hind) (Colour) Madras. 

(35 mm.) (India). 


Durga Khote Prodns, 
Madras. 


U 

67618 


28-6-74 


17=369 01/75 



2268 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 4 

M/8646 

‘Bhootham Varukira- 
thu Jagrilhai’ (Tamil) 
(16 mm,) B & W 
(India). 

115 'OO(l) Krishna swamy Associ- 
ates, (P) Ltd. Madras 

M/8652 

‘Why Silversands’ 

(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (Bidia). 

213 -36(1) Shri Yeshwant H. 

Veecumseo, Madras 

M/8309 

‘Jaya Berjaya’ (Eng- 
lish) (16 mm) B & W 
Malayasia). 

99-35(1) Malaysian High 

Commission, Madras 

M/8624 

‘Dialogue with a 
Doctor’ (English) 

(Colour) (16 m.) 

(USA.). 

230 42(1) Fr. T. V. James, 
Andhra Loyola Col- 
lege, Vijayawada. 

M/8536 

‘Netru Tndru Nalai’ 
(Tamil) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (India). 

4418-06(18) Amalraj Films, 

Madras. 


5 


6 


7 


Krishnagwumy Asso- 
ciates (P) Ltd, Madras 


Shri Yeshwunt H. 
Voecumsee, Madras 


Film Negara, Mala- 
ysia. 


Goldberg Bros. USA 


Shri S. A. Asokan, 
Madras. 


U 

67619 


28-6-74 


U 

67620 


28-6-74 

U 

67621 

28-6-74 

U 

67622 P.E. 
28-6-74 


U 

67623 With Cuts. 


29-6-74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67623-U dt. 29th June 1974— issued to film 'Netru, Indrli, Nalai’ (Tamil) (Colour). 


Length applied : 4444 -82 Mts. 

Cuts Mts. 

1 , Reel 4 (a) Delete reference to use of cycle chain as a lethal weapon . 2-13 

(b) Delete display of cycle chains before the fight . . . 5-17 

2. Reel 13 Reduce the rope fight between Mttnickam and Jambu, eliminating 

tha action of Manlckam slashing the rope repeatedly upon Jambu 
(Retained 9 14) 9 -74 

3. Reel 17 Reduce action of fight to half the present length , reducing the shot 

of Day akin with eyes bleeding to a Hash, or substitute a shot without 
showing blood (Retained 2 -43) 4 '86 

4, Reel 17 Delete the words "Padlkkadavangal Ellam Doctor Pattam 

Ketklranga". 4 '86 


Total . . 26-76 


Actual length of film will be 4418 '06 Metres in 18 Reels. 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2269 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THL 10th AUGUST, 1974 


B/72601 

■‘Urban Alterna- 
tives” (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(U.S.A.) 

201 -78 
(1) 

United States infor- 
mation Service. 

4-New Marine Lines 
Bombay-20. 

Arthur Barr Pro- 
ductions, Inc. 

U 

75541 

P.E. 


5-8-74 


B/72388 

“Seeding And Plant- 
ing Machines” 

(English) (16mm.) 
(Documentary) 

199-33 

(2) 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road. 
Bombay-26. 

U 

75542 

PE 


5-8-74 


B/72537 

“Coppor The Motal 
of 800 Years” 

(Cuprul) (English) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania) 

298 00 
(1) 

National Education 
& Intermation 

Films Ltd, 

Romania Films. 

U 

75543 

P.E. 



5-8-74 

B/72536 

“Cosmic Rays” 

(Raze Cosmice) 

(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 

290 00 
(1) 

Do, 

Do. 

U 

75544 

P.E. 




5-8-74 


B/72438 

“Catalysors” 

(Cataliratori) 

(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 

305 -00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75545 

P.E. 




5-8-74 


B/72431 

“Kasauti” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 

4300 -28 
(16) 

Lalit Kala Mandir, 
15-fair flold-A Sant- 
tacrtiz West, 
Bombay-54.1 

Lalit Kalu Mandir, 

U 

75546 

With triangle, mark 



5-8-74 



Endorsement : 


Original Length : 4335 -25m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. 1 : Delete tho following dialoguo between Bholwala and Sapna : Bite twain : 

“Aur Kitna daal dun ? Sapna ; "Thoda sa, mirchi”. . . .1 -22111, 

2, 111 : Reduce tho fight between HiraandAmit deleting tho hard hitting blows 

on stomach and faco. ......... 2 -10m 

(Longth retained 10-15 m.) 


3. VI : Delete tho underlined dialogue and the visuals showing the torn por- 
tions of the pillows : 

Ramu : “Takkya le ke so gaya tha, Pitta pada 2 -43ni. I| 

(Rcplacod with approved shots : 0 -34m.) 


4. XIV : Reduce the fight between Pyarelal and Seth Hariram & his men in the 

boat, particularly deleting the gruesome visuals and hard hits on 

stomach and face. ,1 -83m. 

(Length retained : 25 -60m.) 

5. XVII : Reduce the violence in the last fight by deleting tho hard hittingblows 

on stomach and face and gruesome visuals. .... 10-36m. 

(Length retained : 44 -20m.) 


6. IX : Delete tho dialogue ol a Ticket Checker in the railway compartment 
tho reforenco to tho Railway Minister when a passenger complaints to 
him that the lights and fans in the compartment are not working. . ) 7 -37m, 


Length of deletions \ 35 -31m. 

Length of approved replacement ; 0 -34m. 

Actual length of the fim ajter the aforesaid alterations will be — 4300 -28 in. in 16 reels. 



2270 


1 

B/72624 

B/72441 


B/72652 

B/72645 

B/72623 

B/72607 

B/72586 

B/72627 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13,1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part HI— Sec. 4 


2 


3 


4 5 6 7 


'Trailer of Duniya fc7 -48 

Ka Mela” (Hindi) (1) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 


G. M. Roshan, Pear] G. M. Roshan, Pear] 
Pictures, Air Con- Picture, Air Ctit- 

ditioned Market, ditioned Maiket, 

Bombay-34. Tardeo, Bombay-34. 


U 

75547 


5-8-74 


'Duniya Ka Mela’, 3992 -88 

(Hindi) (Colour) (15) 
(35mm.) 


PoaH Pictures, Do, 

1 /4 Air Condition 
Market, Bombay-34. 


U 

75548 With triangle 

mark. 

6-8-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4005 -87m, 


Cut Reel 

No. No. 

1 . 1 

2. IV 


3. V 

4. Vll 

5. X 

6. XI 


7. XVI 


Metres 

: In the donee soquonce of Badriprasad dressed as a girl, delete his indecent 
action of pushing tho shehnai forward ond backward in his font. 2 -24m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 -24m.) 

: During the picturisation ol' the song beginning with the words “JuD- 

garia moin jangaria” delete the view of Shyama caressing the 

statue of a male in a passionato manner when the camera tilts down 
with her to compose the midriff oi' tho statuo. .... 3 05m. 

(Replaced with ap roved shots : 3 0 m.) 

: Delete the dialogue “Khada parsi ko baithu parsi kar dunga” 
as said by Badriprasad. — ■ . ■ 1 '10m. 

: Delete the underlined words from the sentence “Parede ke 

aage pardc ke peechhe, na taane kahan kahn\ghus raha hoi " as spoken 
by Badriprasad. 

(Delete sound only) (Replacedwith approved words) 

: Delete the underlined word from the scntonco "Sale ne meio Ghan- 
shyam ki mundi bhi chura li” as spoken by Badriprasad, 

(Deleted sound) (Replaced with approved words) 

: During the picturisation of the song beginning with tho words “Koi 
ajnabi sa " delete 

(a) tho close up of Shyama when the camera tilts down to expose 

the cleavage of hor bust 0 -41m. 

(Replaced with approved shots ; 0-41m.) 

(b) the close front viow of Shama’s midriff when her skirt goes up. . 0 -97m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 -97m.) 

: Reduce considerably the last fight particularly deleting close punches 
on stomach and face and close viows of face with blood . ,11 89m. 

(Length retained ; 34 -45m.) 

Length of deletions : 1 9 -66 m. 

Longth of approved replacement : 6 -67m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be — 3992 '88m. in 15 reels. 


“Bhau" (Marathi) 

1017-42 

(35mm.) 

(4) 

' Hasin Hai Jindagi” 

30 48 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

(Advertisement) 

(1) 

“Rang Mein Aiye” 

30 -48 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

(Advertisement) 

(1) 


“Tho Trusted Health 

30 -48 

Builder” 

(English) 

(1) 

(Colour) 
(35mm, )' 1 

(Advt.) 


“Concert" 

(English) 

30 -48 

(Colour) 

(35mm.) 

(1) 

(Advertisement) 



D.Q.C. (English 30 '48 

(35mm.) (1) 

Advertisement) 


U 

Shri K. Vaikunth, Shri K. Vaikunth. 75549 NotP.E. 

12- A Vinod Villa, 

Worli, Bombay-18. 6-8-74 


U 

Film Media, Mrs. Jyoti G. Thakur 75550 

47-Laxmi Insuranco Film Media, 

Building, Sir P. M. 6-8-74 

Road, Bombay-1. 


U 

M/s. Bilm-5, Jyoti M/s, Films-5, Jyoli 75551 

Studios, Kennedy Studios, Kennedy — 

Bridgo, Bombay-7. Bridge, Bombay-7, 6-8-74 


U 

Cincrad Communi- Mr, Safer Hai, 75552 

cations, National Cine r ad Com 

House, Bombay-1. munications. 6-8-74 


U 

Sridhar Kshirsagar, Sridhar Kbhirsagar, 75553 

103, Olympus, 103, Olympus, 

Altamount Road, Altamount Road, 6-8-74 
Bombay-26. Bombay-26. U 

Triveni, 518, College Triv e ni, 518 College 75554 

Road, Matunga, Road, Matunga, 

Bombay-19. Bombay-19. 6-8-74 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) 2271 


B 112626 


B/72625 


B/72221 


B/72661 


B/72662 


B/26735 

54. 


B/72609 


B/72587 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 





U 

‘Like Friendship 

You Can Trust” 

30 -48 

K. S. Raju. 

K, S. Raju, 

75555 

(1) 

M/s. SRI 35, 

M/s, SRI 35, 

• 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

Groan St., 

Groan St., 

6-8-74 

(35mm.) 

(Advertisement) 


Bombay-1, 

Bombay- 1 . 

U 

‘Psychic Lady Tells" 

30-48 

Do. 

Do. 

75556 


Your Fortuno" 
(English) (Colour) 
(Advertisement) 
(35mm.) 


“Junglo-lndia” 
Commentary) 
(Music Only) 
(Documentary) 
(35mm.) 


(No 


( 1 ) 


54 -00 

0) 


Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombuy-26. 


Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 


6-8-74 


U 

75557 

7-8-74 


U 


B/72605 

“The N«w Young 
Outlook" (English) 
(Colour) (Advt.) 

(35mm.) 

30 -48 
(1) 

Cinerad 

cation. 

Communi- 

Cinorad Communi- 
cation. 

75558 

7-8-74 

B/72405 

"M. M. M. 5 Runli" 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 

30 -48 
(1) 

Ronnie 

No. 4, 
Maris, 

Almoida, 

Stoola 

Annexe 

Ronnie Almeida, 
Bombay-50. 

U 

75559 

7-8-74 


“Indian News Re- 153 00 
vlow No. 1347" (1) 

(Newsreel) (35mm.) 


Offlturner Road, 
Bombay-50. 

Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 


U 

Films Division, 75560 

Govt, of India, 

24-Peddar Road, 7-8-74 
Bombay-26. 


“Indian News Re- 197 -00 

view No. 1347” (1) 

(Northern Edition) 

(35mm.) (Newsreel) 


"Budget" (Hindi) 137-16 

(Marathi) (35mm.) (1) 

(Documentary) 


“Traditional Handi- 310-00 

crafts in Modern (1) 

Living” (English) 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(Japan) 


"The Heritage of 355 -48 
Operating Room- (1) 
D" (English) (Co- 
lour) (16mm.) 

(U.S.A.) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

75561 


The Dir. General 
of Information & 
Public Relation, 
Govt, of Maha- 
rashtra. 


Consulate 1 
of Japan, 
Bombay-26. 


U 


Parke Davis (India) M/s, Parke Davis. 
Ltd., Saki Naga, 

Bombay-72. 


U 

75564 

8-8-74 


Not P.E, 


7-8-74 


The Dir. 

General 

75562 

of Information & - 


Public 

Relation, 

7-8-74 

Govt, of 

Maha- 


rashtrn. 





U 

M. O. S. 

Advertis- 

75563 

ing Inc. 




(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Hindi, 

Marathi, Guja- 

rati, Tamil, 
Telugu, Kan- 
nada, Mala- 

yalam, Assa- 
mese, Oriya, 

Bengali, ver- 

sions.) 


(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Hindi, 
Kashmiri, Pun- 
jabi, Urdu ver- 
sions) 


P.E. 


Not P.E. 


8-8-74 


P.E. 


B/72588 “Mr, Galem Comes 305 -00 

to Town" (Eng- (1) 
lish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (USA) 


Parke Davis. 


Do. 


U 

75565 

8-8-74 


P.E. 


B/72604 “Sentinels of Power” 242-00 

(English) (Colour) (2) 
(16mm.) 


U 

AMA Private Limited, AMA Private Limited, 755566 
Bombay- 1. 


Not P.E- 


8-8-74 

U 



2272 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAITAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

B/72558 

“The Death Rally” 
(Raliulmortii) 

(Music only) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania). 

271 BO 
(1) 

National Education 
& information 

Films Ltd., 

National House. 

Tulloch Road, 
Bombay. 

Romania Films. 

75567 

8-8-74 

U 

Not P.E. 

B/72624 

“Veer Bhagatsingh” 
(H/ndi) (16mm.) 

362 B9 
(3) 

Do. 

National Education 
& Information & 
Film Ltd. 

75568 

8-8-74 

U 

P.E. 

B/72539 

“The Punished Torm 
Cat" (Motanul 

Pede Psit) (Music 
only) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania.) 

162 BO 
(1) 

Do. 

Romania Filins. 

75569 

8-8-74 

Not P.E. 

B/72546 

“Thank you Mihaela” 
(Multumec Mihaela) 
(Music only) (Co- 
lour) (35mm.) 
(Romania). 

262 '00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75570 

8-8-74 

U 

P.E. 

B/72545 

“Mihaela" (Music 

only (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Romania) 

228 '00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75571 

8-8-74 

U 

P.E. 

B/72544 

‘Tom Cat Tn The 
Cosmos" (Motanul 
in Cosmos) (Music 
only) (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Romania) 

287 '00 
(0 

Do. 

Do. 

75572 

8-8-74 

U 

Not P.E. 

B/72540 

"Thief of The Cir- 
cus” (HoatadeJa 

Cire) (Music only) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania) 

200 00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75573 

8-8-74 

U 

Not P. E. 

B/72509 

"Naica And The 

Stork” (Naic Si 
hurra) (Music only) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania) 

564 -00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75574 

8-8-74 

P.E. 

B/72552 

"The Diamond” 
(Diamantul) (Music 
only) (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Romania) 

271 00 
(0 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75575 

8-8-74 

U 

P.E. 

B/72516 

“Convergency” 
(Convcrgente) 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 

306 -00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

75576 

8-8-74 

U 

P.E. 

B/72658 

"5 Rifles” (Hindi) 

3911 '37 

Delux Productions, 

Delux Productions 

75577 

With triangle 

(Colour) (35mm.) 

(15) 

(India) 5-J Near 
Naaz Bldg., 
Bombay-4. 

(India) 5-J Naaz ■ 
Building Bombay-4. 

9-8-74 

mark. 


Endorsement ; 

Original Length : 3925 -78m. 

Cut Keel 
No. No. 

1. II : Delete the paintings of women in indecent poses when the Sanyasi 

(Mama in disguise) sings a song in praise of women 5 -29m, 

(Replaced with approved shots : 5 '29m.) 

2. fV : Delete the kiss between Rajkumari and Rakcsh. .... 1 -98m. 

3. IV : Reduce the beating up of the Rajkumari by Khottu 0 '91m. 

(Length retained : 0 -91m.) 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA. DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) 2273 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

4. VIII : Delete the following dialogue of Katnri along with her indecent ges- 

ture. “Vishwas na ho to dactari karva lo”. ..... 2 -33m. 

5. X : Delete the shot of bare breasted girls standing around a swimming pool 4.18 

6. XI : From the ‘muira’ sequence, of Mama disguised as a dancing girl, 

delete : 

U) the view of police officer shaving the leg of the dancer : . 5 '29m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 5 -29m.) 

(li) the view of dancer silting astride the police officer and the officer 

enjoying it, and . , . ..... 3 -37iti. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 3 -37m.) 

(Hi) the view of the dancer (Mann in disguise - ) being stripped by the 
polico Officer, and the dialogue ‘’joban to sara aapko haath mo rah 
gaya hai”. Ah kya halchul machhegi” . . . . .4 '98m 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 -80m.) 

7. XI ; In the bath tub scene, delete the expression of pleasure on the face of 

Khottu’s wife when Mama is under her in the tub, and delete the words 
“mcra pet phi kharab hai” with reference to the bubbles in the water. I -83m. 

8. XU : Delete the references to 'pisab' in the dialogue of Mama. 

(Deleted sound only). 

Length of deletions : 30 • 1 6m. 

Length of approved replacement : 15 -75m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he 3911 -37m. In 15 reels. 
ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 

B/72656 

Film : “A Wedding At The Oberoi Sheraton” (English) 

(/-Certificate No. 75498 of 29-7-1974, 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. 

Thelength of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th August, 1974. 

B/68767 

Film : ' A Climate Of Health” (English) 

{/-Certificate No. 72314 of 7-4-1973. 

Reel I & II : Deleted various shots : 81 -63m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 357 -28w. 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th August, 1974. 

B/72358-60 

Film : "Chidlyagarh Ki Sair” (Hindi) 

C-Ceit. No. 75151 of 12-6-1974 

Deleted various shots : 3 -76m. 

Added various shots : 3 -76m. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 7th August, 1974. 




2274 THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 3 6 7 

Endorsement on Certificate No. 67667-U dated 7th August 1974 — issued to the film 


‘Tdayam Parkirathu’ (Tamil). 

Length applied. 4075 -01 Mts„ 

Cuts 

1. Reel 2 — Delete Paramaslvam’s reference to Black & Red colour wherever it 

occurs in the dialogue with the second-hand car dealers. , . 4 -23 

2. Reel 3 — Delete shot of night-club dancer’s pelvis jerks, holding snako in hand 

overhead. 3 ’34 

3. Reel d— Delete the action of Nthesh unhooking Geeta has blouse In bullock cart. . 0.91 

4. Reel 8 — Delete Bahadur’s action of closing the drawer on Stella’s fingers, stamp- 

ing her, pushing her down the stairs, strangling and drowning her. . 36 '87 

5. Reel 11— Delete action of Bahadur's crushing Mahcsh with his leg on his neck. . 8 '83 

6. Reel 12— Delete word of Parumasivam “Arasiyalvadi" referring to the rowdies. 3 95 

7. Reel 14— Delete top-angle shot of Leela and Mahesh, her breast prominent in bed. 5.47 

8. Reel 14 — Delete action of Mahesh caressing Lcela’s bare back with his mouth. . 3 -34 

9. Reel 14— Delete shot of Leela lying over his lap with patted legs. , . . 12 T5 

10. Reel 14 — Delete shot of Mahesh throught Leela's legs, astride in foreground. . 3 34 

11. Reel 15 — Reduce tortur* of Mahesh to a suggestion. (Retained 3 '04). , . 9 14 

Total ... 91 59 


Actual length of the film trill be — 3983 -42 Mts. In 16 Reels. 


M/8802&03 ’Sunflowor’ 30 48(1) 

(English & Hindi) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 

India. 


M/8816 ‘Vilakapatta Rani’ 3866-38 

(Malayalam) (16) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 

India. 


Ogilvy Benson & 
Mather (P) Ltd., 
Madras. 


U 

Ogilvy Benson & 67668 

Mather (P) Ltd., . » — - ■ 
Madras. 7-8-74 


A 


Shrikant Sc Shrikant 
Films (P) Ltd., 
Madras. 


Shrikant & Shrikant 3304 

Films (P) Ltd., — 

Madras. 7-8-74 


U 


M/8830 


‘Silver Jubilee of 548-64 
Vikram Productions’ (2) 
(Kannada) (Partly 
colour) (35mm.) 

India. 


Vikram Productions, Vikram Productions, 67669 
Madras. Madras. - — - — - 

8-8-74 


PARTICULARS OF THE films CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF 
CENSORS DURING THEjWEEK ENDING 17 TH AUGUST, 1974 

BOMBAY U 


B/72455 

“Resham Ki 

Dori" 

3981 -91 

Modem Pictures, 

T. C. Dewan, 

75578 

With 


(Hindi) 

(Colour) 

(16) 

238 Famous Cine 

238-Famous Cine . 


mark. 


(35mm.) 



Bldg., Muhalaxmj, 

Bldg., Mahalaxmi, 

12-8-74 






Bombay-1 1, 

Bombay-11. 




FILM 


triangle 


Endorsement : 

Original Longth : 3900 -80 m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. Ill : Reduce the fight in jail and the shot of warden’s head being pushed into 

the oven by Sher Singh. 2 -74m. 

(Length retained : 10 -37m.) 

2. VI : Delete hard hilling shots on the stomach and chin in the scene of hero 

beating the Manager’s hireling, 

( Deleted Sound only) 

3. XII : Reduce the fight between Vinod and Ajit Singh. .... 3 33m. 

(Length retained : 13 -90m.) 


4. XV : Reduce the fight between the hero and Dinesh and his goondas by delet- 
ing hard hitting shots 12 -80m. 

(Length retained : 48 -46m.) 

Length of deletions : 18 -89m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 3981 -91m. In 16 Reels. 


B/72644 

“Sokhni 

Ek Pan 

30-48 

Film Media, 

Ghadl 

Gomausho 

(1) 

Bombay. 


Nahi" 

(Gujarati) 




(35mm.) 

(Advt.) 




U 

Jyoti O. Thakur. 75579 


12-8-74 



Part III 

l 

B/72641 

B/72638 

B/72J67 

B/72881 

B/71900 

B/71899 

B/71898 

B/72636 

B/72642 

B/72643 


■Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDfA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2 3 5 


5 


6 


7 


"Jeevan Sukhhmay 

Bani Shake Che" 
(Oujarati) (35mm.) 
(Advt.) 

30 48 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

"Khushiyan Hi 
Khushiyan”(Hindi) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 

30 -48 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

"Trailer of Jai Shri 
Ram Yane Hanu- 
man Vijay” 

(Gujarati) (35mm.) 
(Colour) 

106 -68 
(1) 

Basant Pictures, 

1 36-Chamatbaug 
Road, Bombay-12. 

Basant Pictures, 
136-Chamarbaug 
Road, Bombay-12. 

“Trailer of Trimurti" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

91 -94 

0) 

M/s. Kiron Produc- 
tions, 217-Famous 
Cine Bldg,, 

Bombay- 1 1. 

Shri Rajender Bhatia, 
Bombay-11. 

"Pain Relief” 

(Marathi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 

30 -48 
(I) 

Bhim Sain, 

Climb Films, 

22-Anin Chambers, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 

Bhim Sain, 
Bombay-34. 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 30 ’48m, 

Delete the word "Keval” from the sentence “ya kherlj keval soridon, hoya keval »ol'i- 
don madhhech vedana nahlshya karanyachl shakti aahe" 

( Deleted Sound only) 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 


U 

75580 


12-8-74 


U 

75581 

12- 8-74 
U 

75582 

13- 8-74 

U 

75583 


13-8-74 


U 

75584 


13-8-74 


With 

mark. 


"Saridon V/s Pain" 30 -48 
(Hindi) (Colour) (1) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


Bhim Sain, 

Climb Films, 
22-Arun Chambers, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 


Bhim Sain, 
Climb Films, 
Bombay-34. 


U 

75585 With 

mark. 

13-8-74 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 30 '48m. 

Deleted the word “Sirf” from the sentence ‘‘sirf saridon— sirf saridon men hi dard 
dur karneki shakti hai” 

( Deleted Sound only) 

Length of the film remains unchanged. 


"The Great Reliever” 30 -48 
(English) (Colour) (1) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


Bhim Sain, 

Climb Films, 
22-Arun Chambers, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 


Bhim Sain, 

Climb Films, 
22-Arun Chambers, 
Tardeo, Bombay-34. 


U 

75586 With 

— mark. 

13-8-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 30 '48m. 

Delete the word ‘only’ from the sentence "Moreover only Saridon, I repeat only 
Saridon has the power to relievo pain 
( Deleted sound only) 


'Har Pul Khushl 

fCa Pul” (Hindi) 
(35mm.) 
(Advertisement) 

30 48 

0) 

Film Media, 

47-Laxmi Insurance 
Bldg., Bombay-!. 

ML Jyoti G. Thakur. 
Film Media. 

U 

75587 

13-8-74 

‘Jeevnath Anand 

Asu Shaktho” 

(Marathi) 
(Advertisement) 
(35mm.) 

30 '48 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75588 



13-8-74 

“Dhoke Dhukheuar 
Avhak” (Marathi) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 

30.48 

0) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75589 



13-8-74 


2275 


triangle 


triangle 


triangle 


18— 369GI/75 



2276 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1397) [Part ITT— Sec. 4 


l 


B/72640 


B/72637 


B/72639 


B/72648 


B/72690 


B/72684 


B/72683 


B/72608 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


“Anandajc Shun 

Vaya Galvu Naka" 
(Marathi) (35mm.) 
(Advt.) 

30-48 

(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75590 





13-8-74 



"Suhane Pul” (Hindi) 
(35ntm.) (Advt.) 

30 -48 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75591 





13-8-74 



“Mathana Dukhawano 
Ekmatra Ilaz” 

(Gujarati) (35mm.) 
(Advt,) 

30 -48 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75592 





13-8-74 



“The Bremen 

Musician Again" 
(English) (Sov- 

colour) (35mm.) 

(USSR) 

587 -00 
(2) 

Sovexportfilm. 

Soyuzmutfllm 

Production. 

U 

75593 

■ Not P.E, 



14-8-74 


“His Name Ts Today” 
(English) (3 5mm.) 
(Documentary) 

473 -00 
(2) 

The Director General 
of Information 

& Public Rolation 
Govt, of Maha- 

rashtra. 

The Director General 
of Information 

& Public Relation 
Govt, of Maha- 
rashtra. 

U 

75594 

P.E. 


14-8-74 


“Indian News Re- 
view No, 1348" 
(Eastern Edition) 

(35mm.) (Newsreel) 

263 -00 
(1) 

Films Division 

Govt, of India 
24-Peddar Road 

Bombay-26. 

Films Division 

Govt, of India 
24-Peddar Road 

Bombay-26. 

U 

75595 

(Valid for 

lish, 

Bengali, 
mese, & 
versions,) 

Eng- 

Hindi, 

Assa- 

Urdu 

14-8-74 

“Indian News Re- 
view No. 1348” 
(35mm.) (Newsreel) 

216 00 
(1) 

Do. 

Do. 

U 

75596 

(Valid for Eng- 
lish, Hindi, 

Gujarati, Tamil, 

Telugu, Kan- 
nada, Mala- 

yalam, Punjabi, 
Kashmiri, Ur- 
du & Sindhi 

versions.) 



14-8-74 

“Ujala Hi Ujala" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) 

3701 -81 
(15) 

S. M. Sagar 

Usmanabag Bldg. 
9-Almaida Road 
Bandra Bombay-50. 

S. M. Sagar 

Adhikar Inter- 
national. 

U 

75597 

With 

mark. 

triangle 

14-8-74 

Endorsement : 







Original Lenght : 3731.00 m. 






Cut Reel 

No. No. 




Mts. 



1. VIII : Delete the 

view of kiss between saraswati and Rupa in the garden at 





the end of the song. ......... 5 -17m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0-56m.) 

2. IX : Reduce the fight between Vikram and the goondas particularly deleting 

the hard punphos on face and stomach. ..... 7 -62m, 

(Length retained : 40 -58m.) 

3. X : During the picturisation of the song “Main netoyehjaana ” 

delete one shot completely and in the other shot reduce to once of 
rubbing of nose between Anuradha and Vikram. .... 1 58m. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 -58m.) 

4. XV : Reduce the fight between the two parties lod by Vikram and Ajit par- 

ticularly deleting all hard punches on stomach and face and also other 
gruesome visuals. Reduce the hitting of Greta in the running car. . 16 -96m. 

(Length retained : 92 -58m.) 

Length of deletions : 31 -33 nt. 

Length of approved replacement : 2 -14m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3701 -81m. 

In 15 reels. 



Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2277 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/72695 


fi/66361 


B/71630 


B/72094 


B/72692 


B/72693 


‘Indian Nows Rc- 200 -55m 
view No. 1349-A” (1) 

(English & Hindi) 

(35mm.) 


U 

Minis Division Films Division 75598 

Govt, of India Govt, of India - - — — — 

24-Peddar Road 24-Peddar Road 14-8-75 

Bombay-26. Bombay-26. 


Chhoto Sarkaar" 3818 10 

(Hindi) (Colour) (14) 
(35mm.) 


Pinky Films 
Famous Cine Bldg. 
Bombay-11. 


Bany Tulwar 
Pinky Films, 
Bombay-1 1 . 


U 

75599 with triangle 

- • mark. 

14-8-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3829 -98m. 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. VI : Delete reference to ihe word “Achhut”. ...... 6 -10m. 

2. VII. : From the rape scene delete the view of Radhika seen atop Moti and their 

reflection in the mirror above. ....... 4 -26m. 

3. X : Towards the end of the song “Tere chehorepar "delete the view of 

Raja in close physical proximity with Radhika with the suggestion of 

kits in the back view. ......... 1 '52m. 

Length of deletions : 11 -88m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3818 -10/tt. 

In 14 reels. 


Youth Parliament” 356 -00 
(English) (35mm.) (2) 

(Documentary) 


“Aashiana” (Hindi) 3240-32 
(Colour) (35mm.) (12) 


Films Division, 

Govt, of India, 
24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay-26. 


U 

Films Division, 75600 

Govt, of India, — 

24-Peddar Road, 14-8-74 
Bombay-26. 


U 

D. Komal, M/s Dov D. Komal, M/s. Dev 75801 

Kala Internation- Kala International. With 

nal, Victoria Bldg., 14-8-74 Mark 

Bombay-. 


triangle 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 3253 -32m. 


Cut Reel 
No. No. 

1. IV 

2. V 

3. Vll 

4. XI 

5. XI 


; Delete the inference to a min drinking in bir being an M. P. 

(Deleted sound only) 

: Reduce the fight between Sunil and the gang by deleting hard hitting 
shots. 

(Length retained : 28 -96m.) 

: In the fight between Sunil and Ramesh and again between Sunil and 
Abdulla deleting the hard hitting shots. ...... 

: Delete the shot of Sunil indecorously dancing over Sonia when she is 
lying between his legs. ......... 

: In the scene when Sunil and Sonia are trying to dry their clothes after 
boing drenched in water delete indecorous shots. .... 

Length of deletions : 17 -21m. 

Length of approved replacement : 4 -27m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3240 -32 m 
in 1 2 reels. 


3 00m. 

4 -50m. 

4 -27m. 

5 -50m. 


“Tawa” (Hindi) 330 -71 

(35mm.) (1) 

(Documentary) 


‘Samruddinu Sopun” 186 00 

(Gujarati) (Colour) (2) 

(16mm.) (Docu- 
mentary) 


U 

S. G. Khirwadkar, R. S. Dikshit, 75802 

Asstt. Director Director Publicity — 

Int. & Public & Information, 14-8-75 

Department Madhya Pradesh. 

Madhya Pradesh, 

Govt, of M. P., 

Bhopal, 


U 

National Institute National Institute 75*03 
of Design of Design Paldi, — - — * — • 

Ahmedabad. Ahmedabad. 14-8-74 


P.E. 



2278 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


B/72691 "Trailer of "Ujala 88-15 

Hi Ujala” (Hindi) (1) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 


B/72686 "Beloved Invaders 

—The Ventures" 
(Shorter version) 
(English) (35mm.) 
(Cinemascope) 


533 -40 
( 2 ) 


B/72646 “Trailer of EK Thi 83 -00 

Rajkumari" (1) 

(Hindi) (35mm.) 
(Sovcolour) (USSR) 


B/72651 “Alaid— The Fiery 

Crater (Alaid- 

Ogenyikrater) 
(English) (Sovo- 

colour) (35mm.) 

(USSR.) 


269 00 
( 1 ) 


B/72613-A 


"Trailer of Ek Je 
Chhil Rnjkumari" 
(Bengali) (Sov- 
colour) (35 mm.) 

(USSR.) 


83 -00 

(t) 


B/72650 "A Masquerade Of 

Hexappnds” 
(Maskared 
(Shestinogikh) 
(English) (Sov- 
colour) (35mm.) 

(USSR.) 


525 00 
( 2 ) 


B/72649 “Perseus” (Persy) 559 -00 

(English) (Sov- (2) 
colour) (35mm.) 


B/72647 "Looking For De- 

cision” (Shto 
Takoo ? Shto 

Dolaet ? Is hy 

Reshnie) (English) 
(Sovcolour) (35mm.) 


541 00 
( 2 ) 


B/72613 "Ek Jo Chhil Raj- 3886 00 

kumari” (35mm.) (15) 

(Bengali) (Sov- 
colour) (USSR.) 


B/72612 “Down To Earth — - 

Part IV" (The 
Fourth Revolution) 
(English) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Docu- 
mentary) 


315-77 

( 1 ) 


B/72569 "Forever Free’ (Eng- 300 -00 
lish) (16mm.) (1) 

(USA.) 


B/72342 “The Extra Rich" 30-48 

(Shampoo) (Eng- (1) 
lish) (Colour) 

(Advt.) (35ram.) 


U 

S. M. Sagar, Adhlkar international 75804 

Usmanabad Bldg., — — — 

Bombay. 14-8-74 


Jasmine Films, 
Bombay. 


U 

George M. Reid. 8 75805 


14-8-74 


Sovexportfilm, 

Bombay-5. 


U 

Mosfllm Studio. 75806 


16-8-74 


U 

Do. Central Popular 75807 

Science Film Studio. 

16-8-74 


U 

Do. Mosfllm Studio. 75808 

16-8-74 


U 

Do, Kier Popular — 75809 

Science Film Studio. P.E. 

16-8-74 


U 

Do. Soyuzmultfllm 75810 

Production, 

16-8-74 

U 

Do. Kiev Popular Science 75811 

Film Studio. — 

16-8-74 


U 

Sovexportfilm, Mosfiiin Studio. 75812 

Bombay-5. — — 

16-8-74 


U 

Rammohan Bio- Rammohan Bio- 75813 

graphic. Sir Bhal- graphics, Sir Bhai- — — • — P.E. 

chandra Rd. Dadar, chandra Road, 16-8-74 

Bombay-14. Dadar, Bombay-14. 


U 

Under Secretary, Mr. Jcmraings Horn- 78814 

Ministry of Ship- mer Jam Handy — ■ ■ ■ P.E. 

ping and Transport Organisation. 16-8-74 

I. W. T. Direc- 
torate, New Delhi. 

U 

Unit 3 MM, Kala Unit 3 MM, Kala 75815 

Bhavan Mathew Bhavan Mathew — — - — 

Road, Bombay-4. Road, Bombay-4. 1 6-8-74 



Pajit III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2279 


1 

B/72666 

B/72670 

B/72677 

B/72675 

B/72678 

B/72676 

B/72319 


2 


3 


“Louis I. Khan : 309-37 

Architects" (Eng- (1) 
lish) (Colour) 

(16mm.) (USA.) 


“Memphis” (English) 159-41 

(Colour) (16mm.) (1) 

(USA.) 


"Mumbaini Sahegah 130-48 
(Gujarati) (Colour) (1) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


Bombai Ki Bahon- 30 -48 
men" (Hindi) (Co- (1) 
lour) (35mm.) 

(Advt.) 


“Happy Holiday In 30 -48 
Bombay” (Eng- (1) 
lish) (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Advt.) 


“Mirnbaichi Sehala” 30 -48 
(Marathi) (Colour) (I) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


“Annhut" (Hindi) 544 -65 

(35mm.) (2) 


4 5 6 7 


U 

United States Infor- Paul Falkenberg & 75816 

matron Service. Hans Namuth. P.E. 

16-8-74 


U 

United States Infor- Memphis Chamber 75817 

mation Service. of Commerce. — - — ■ — Not P.E. 

16-8-74 

U 

Film Media, Film Media, 75818 

47-Laxtni Insurance 47-Laxmi Insurance — — — 1 

Bldg,, Sir P. M. Bldg., Sir P. M. 16-8-74 

Road, Bombay-1. Road, Bombay-1. 


U 

Do. Do. 75819 


16-8-74 

U 

Do. Do. 75820 

16-8-74 

U 

Do. Do. 75821 


16-8-74 

U 

Shri Girish Karnard, Film & Television 75822 

Director Film & Institute of India. — — Not P.E. 

Television Insti- 16-8-74 

tute of fndia, Poona. 


B/72663 


B/72594 


B/72669 


B/72562 


B/72548 


B/72547 


"Alitalia" (English 
(Colour) (35mra.) 


“Lahmina” (English) 
(Colour) (3Jmm.) 


"The Magic of Walt 
Disney World” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USA) 


"Pesters” (No dia- 
logue, No. Com- 
mentary (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 


“Flori Penutru 
Mihaela” (No 
Commentary & 
dialogue) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romapia) 


“Prietera Naastra 
Mihaela" 

(No Dialogue or 
Commentary) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania) 


30 -48 

( 1 ) 


30 -48 

(0 


323 -09 
( 1 ) 


M/s. Alitalia, M/s. Alitalia. 

Industrial Assu- 
rance Bldg., 

Ground Floor, 

Opp. Charchgate 
Station, Bombay-1 . 


Keith Allams, 

M/s. Kappa, 
3-Carl— In Apart- 
ments Water Field 
Road, Ext. 
Bombay-50. 


Keith Allams, 
(M/s, Kappa), 
Bombay-50. 


United States In- Walt Disney Films, 
formation Service, 


U 

75823 


16-8-74 


U 

75824 


16-8-74 


U 

75825 

— P.E. 

16-8-74 


266 '00 National Education Romania Films. 
(1) & Information 

Films Ltd., 

Tulloch Road, 

Bombay. 


U 

75826 

P.E. 

17-8-74 


284 -00 National Education 
(1) & Information 

Films Ltd,, 

Tulloch Road, 
Bombay. 


278 -00 Do. 

( 1 ) 


U 

Do. 75827 

P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

Do. 75828 

P.E. 

17-8-74 



2280 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


B/72564 

B/72553 

B/72561 

B/72566 

B/72551 

B/72549 

B/72550 

B/72214 

B/69591 


"Faia din Far West" 268 ■00 
(No dialoguo or (1) 
Commentary) (Co- 
lour) (35mm.) 

(Romania). 


"Jupiter Has to bo 
Saved” (Nupitcr 

Trebuio Salvat) 

(Music only) 

(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Romania) 

250 -00 
(1) 

"Far West” (Music 

Only) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania.) 

265 -00 
0) 

"Sheriff’s Sunday” 

(Duminica Seri- 

fului) (Music only) 
(Colour) (35mra.) 
(Romania) 

340 00 
0) 

"Penele Ncgrc” (No 
dialoguo or Com- 
mentai-y (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 

222-00 

(1) 

"Adventure" (No 

dialogue or Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Romania) 

265 -00 
(1) 

"Tntilnirea” (No 

dialoguo or Com- 
mentary (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Romania). 

250 -00 
(1) 

"Man The Polluter” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (Canada) 

640 -08 
(2) 

"Manzilein Aur Bhi 
Hum” (Hindi) 

3092-19 

(12) 


(Colour) (35mm.) 


C 

Do. Do. 75829 

P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

Do. Do. 75830 

• Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


National Education Romania Films. 
& Information 
Films Ltd., 

Tulloch Road, 

Bombay. 


Do. Do. 


U 

75831 

— Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

75832 

— Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Cine Guild, 

1 1-Jain Chambers, 
Bombay-50. 


U 

Do. 75833 

— • Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

Do. 75834 

Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

Do- 75835 

Not P.E. 

17-8-74 


U 

National Film Board 75836 

of Canada. — ■ — P p 

17-8-74 


R. H. Jain & Johny 3233 

Baxi, Jain Cham- — — With 

bets, Bombay-50. 13-8-74 mark. 


triangle 


Endorsement : 


Original Length ; 3138 -15m. 

Cut Reel Metres 

No. No. 

1. : Tho violence in the film needs toning down, but not the viciousness of 

the two characters who are on the track of Uday and Gulshan : 

II (i) The scenes whore Uday is being tortured by his accomplices to 

know tho whorcabouts of the loot he has hidden and is being 
kicked repeatedly should bo reduced to minimum , a few frams 
should be retained for the logic of tho story, . . . .5 -79m. 

(Length retained : 1 '22m.) 


VII : (//) The scene depicting the face of doad body of Uday’s mother in his 

dream should be deleted. . . ■ . . . . 4 -57nl. 

X : {ill) The scene depicting tho face of dead bodies after shooting by 

Uday at stone quarry should bo deleted. . . . .3 05m. 


XI : (iV) The scone depicting Shanti’s torture whore she is desperately 
thiraty and drinking dust in her hands should bo reduced to the 
minimum and only a few frames should be retained for con- 
necting the story. 3 06m. 

(Length retained : 3 -01m.) 


Vlli : (v) The sound effect should be toned down throughout the Aim 

wherever nock violence has been depicted 1 -22m. 



Part III— Sf.c. 4] I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2281 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


B/72655 


2 . 


3. 

4. 


5. 

6 . 


IV : The scene where Uday’s blind old mother tortured and terrorised by a 

burning paper for a long time to get her confession regarding Uday's 
whereabouts should be toned down. ...... 5 -50m. 

(Length retained ; 1 1 -27m.) 

V : The scene depicting torturing a caged parre t with a turning match 

stick; should be reduced— ....... 4.59 m. 

(Length retained : 1 ’52) 

LX : The love scene particularly the repetition of those scenes by way of 
flashbacks of the girl, should be out to the minimum required for the 
logic of the story. ......... 16 05m. 

(Length retained : 3 ’89m.) 

Curse words i. e. Sala, Sali, Kaminc, Harami, Badzat, Harainzadi, and 
Chavani-Chhap, should be reduced to the minimum. 

(Deleted sound only). 

Ill ; The shot of the heroine’s under elothese on the clothes-line needs 

excisions 2 '13m. 

(Length of deletions : 45 -96 m.) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 

3092.19m in 12 reels. 


‘Patthar Aur Payal" 3953 ’25 
(Hindi) (Colour) (16) 
(35mnl.) 


K. P. S. Films, K. P. Singh & 

Air Conditioned N P. Singh. 
Market, Tardeo, 

Bombay- 34. 


A 

3234 

With triangle mark. 

13-8-74 


Endorsement : 


Original Length : 4009 -45m. 


Cut 

Reel 




No. 

No. 




1. 

VI 

: (0 

Reduce considerably the fight between Sarju and Ranjit by 
deleting hard hits on stomach and face. ..... 
(Length retained : 16 '26m.) 

8 -54m. 



Hi) 

Reduce pressing of Sarju’s neck by Ranjit under his foot. . 
(Length retained : 2 -44m.) 

1 19m. 



(m) 

Reduce the whipping of Ranjit in the decoit’s den. . 

(Length retained : 16 -46m.) 

1 1 -98m. 

2. 

VII 

: Reduce considerably the violence in the fight between Ranjit and Sarju, 

by deleting gruesome visuals 

(Length retained : 6 -71m.) 

0 -39m. 

3. 

XII 

: (0 

From the cabaret item, reduce to minimum the front view of the 
dancer with back light and delete the low angle shot of the dancer 
in an indecent postnre when she turns her back to the camera. 

( Deleted completely) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 2 -83111.) 

2 -83m. 



Hi) 

Reduce the fight between Ranjit and Shekhar and his men. 

(Length retained : 41 T5m.) 

3 -48m. 

4. 

XIV 

: Reduce the shot of Munshi with dagger struck on his chest. 

(Length retained ; 0-56m.) 

0 '74m. 

5. 

XV 

: (0 

Reduce the violence in the fight between Sarju and Ranjit. 

(Length retained : J9-20in.) 

7-Olni. 



HD 

Reduce considerably the torture of Ranjit by Vijay Narain 
Singh's men on horses, particularly the whippings, tramphngs 

and dragging 

(Length retained ; 18 -90m.) 

7 -41m. 

6. 

XVI 

: H) 

Reduce to minimum the whipping of Ajit by Vijay Narain Singh 
in the jungle. ......... 

(Length retained : 5 '49m.) 

2 -91m. 



HO 

Reduce considerably the climax fight between Ranjit and Sarju, 
particularly deleting hits with gun butt, hard hitting blows on 

face and stomach etc 

(Length retained ; 20 '61m.) 

10 -75m. 


Deleted voluntarily in reel No. XIV : 1 -80m. 

Length of deletions : 57 Urn. 

Length of approved replacement : 2 -83m 
Vol. deletions : 1 '80m 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he : 
3953 -2 5m. in 16 reel. 



2282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— -Sec. 4 


1 

1 

1 

1 

! 

i 

i 

i 

- - - - ~ ^ - 

I 2 

3 4 5 6 7 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 

B/72157 

Film : “Badhti K.a Naam Dadhi” (Hindi) 

[/-Certificate No. 75413 of 17-7-1974. 

Reol : Reel : Red : 


VI 

: Deleted various shots : 

61 26m. 

X 

: Deleted various shots : 

3 '60m. 

XITI 

: Deleted various shots: 4 -60m. 

VIII 

: Deleted various shots: 

4 -08m. 

XI 

: Dr feted various shots: 

5 • 5m. 

XIV : 

Deleted various shots: 3 '80m. 

IX 

: Deleted various shots : 

4 -10m. 

Xll 

: Deleted various shots: 

4 09m, 

XV : 

Deleted various shots: 2 '02m. 


92 '60m. 

VII : Added various shots: 91 -44m. 

Actual length oj the film ajter the aforesaid alterations Will be : 3979 -53/w. 

This certificate was endorsed on 12th August, 1 974. 

R/72494 

Film ; “Nrutyollas" (Marathi) (Colour) 

(7-Ce rti. No, 75129 of 4-6- 1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the 
film remains unchan jod, 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th August, 1974. 

B/72493 

Film : “Lol< Nrutya” (Gujarati) 

(7-Cert. No. 9 J 128 of 4-6- 1 974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of 
the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 13th August, 1974. 

B/70809 

Film : Trailer of “Mr. Romeo” Hindi) 

(7-Cert. No. 74038 of 6-12-1973. 

Deleted various shots : 1 -83m. 

Added various shots 5 -79m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 106 07m. 

This certicfiato was endorsed on 16th August, 1974, 

B/70579 

Film : “Dharmendra Plays Pocketmaar” 

(7-Cort. No. 74795 of 13-4-1974. 

Reol X : Deleted various shots : 34 -44m. 

Actual length of the film after he aforesaid deletions will be : 3929 '59m. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 16th August, 1974, 

B/72685 

Film : “Do Bhai” (Hindi) (Colour) 

[/-Cert. No. 74897 of 9-5-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Punjabi version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th August, 1974, 


C/8065 


CALCUTTA 

U 

Swarna Manjuri 3787 T4 Com Enterprise, Ramesh Naidu, 73475 

(Bengali) (35mm.) (14) 9, Crocket Lane, 9, Crocket Lane, — 

Calcutta -I. Calcutta-I. 13-8-74 

U 


C/8066 Kuka (No dialogue, 

Song or Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
mm.) West Ger- 
many. 


91 -44 Offalwagon 

(3) 163/53, Lake Gar- 

dens, Caloutta. 


Kecller & Knappich 73476 

Ausburg West — — — P,E, 

Germany. 13-8-74 



Part in— SEC. 4] IH£ GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1S9 7) 2283 



U 

M/88M ‘ Baala Bharatha’ 4651-24 Venus Mahooja Pic- Venus Malieojft Pie- 67670 

(Kannada) (Colour) (18) lures, , Madras. tures, Madras, — 

(15mm.) India. 12-8 74 

I) 

M/88(j| ‘Nomu’ (Telugu) 4115-00 rmkeyyeshoc, fmkeyycsboc, 67671 

(Colour) (35mm.) (17) Madras. Madras, With cuts, 

rnd.a. 12-8-74 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67671-U dated 12-8-74 Issued to the film ‘Nontu’ (Telugu) 

(Colour). 

Length applied. 4124-00 Mts. 

Cuts 

1. (loo) 5 — From the sonp picturisation, delete tho actions of Iswar crossing his Jog Mts. 

over Parvathi when both are lying ovor the revolving bed. . . . 4-56 

2. Reel 9— From the song picturisation. delete fswar caressing tho postrrior of 

Parvati. 

(Replaced flower shot : 1 -52) 1-52 

3. Reol 10 — Delete the reference to Dr. C. R, Reddy from the dialogue of Puliraju. 4 *44 

4. Rod 13 — From tho song text, delete tho words ‘Magasiri Vedl" front the song be- 

ginning with the words "Taka Taka" (jnoludlng all repetitions of tho 
same.) 

(Replaced aproved words) , 

Total . . . 10-52 


M/8593 

M/879) 


Total replacement 1 -52Mts. 

Actual length will be : 4115-00 Mts. In 17 Reels. 


‘ Talk It up 1 109 -72 Madras Refineries National Safety 67672 

(English) (Colour) (1) Ltd,, Madras. Council, USA. PE 

(16mm.) (USA), 13-8-74 


■Thacholl Maranagan 4383 *93 Suchitramanjari, Suchitra Manjarj, 67673 

Chandu’ (Mala- (16) Madras. Madras, With cuts 

yalam) (Colour) 13-8-74 ' 

(35mm.) India. 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67673-U dated 1 3-8-74 issued to the film 'Thacholi Maru- 
magan Chandu’ (Malayalam). 

Length applied . 4385-14 Mts, 


Cuts. Mts. 

1. Reel 6 — Delete the close-shot of tho scorpion crawling over the bare bolly of the 

captive. .... . 1-21 


2. Reel 11 — Delete the dialoguo of Chappan “Purakoy Nadannu Endoy Pazham 

Thinnadhum Pora, Mundum Azhikkano 7”. ... 

(Sound only — replaced approved words.) 

Total . . 1-21 


Actual length of the film will he : 4383 -93 Mts. in 16 Reels. 


M/8831 

TOOth Day Cele- 

219-45 

Anupam Movies, 

Anupam Movies, 

67674 


bration of Ycradu 
Kanasu (Kannada) 
(Colour) (3 mm.) 
Tndia. 

0) 

Madras. 

Madras, 

13-8-74 



M/8795 ‘Kodt Vidyalu Kutl 4335 77 Panduranga Pic- Smt. K. Rangamma, 67675 

Korako’ (Telugu) "( 18 ) tures, Madras, Madras — Willi cuts 

(35mm.) B&W. J 4-8-74 

India. 

Endorsement on certificate No, 67673-U dated 14-8-74 issued to the film ‘Kodi Vidyalu 
Kuti Korako, (Telugu), 

Length appliod. 4354 -05 Mts, 

“19— -36901/75 ’ ~ 



2284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sic. 4 


1 2 


3 


--- — 


5 


6 


7 


Cuts. Me. 

RtX'l 7— From 8011111% dialogue, delete the sentence “ Tana pamki luklu vadiinap- 
pudu aduti mumshi ball ayina kooda digulu padani,", referring to 
politicians. . . .... 18-28 


Total 18-28 


M/8793 


Actual length of the film will he 4335 -77 Metres in 18 Reels. 


‘Inti Kodalu* 4257 -74 Madhu Pictures, Shri P. Mallikarjuna 67676 

(Tolugu) (35mm.) (17) Madras. Rao, Madras. — — — 

B&w:, India. 14-8-74 

Endorsement on certificate No. 67676-U dated the 14-8-74 issued to the film ‘Inti Kodalu’ 

(Telugu) (35mm.) B&W. 

Length applied. 4263 -21 Mts. 

Cuts. Mts. 


U 

With cuts. 


Roel 10 — Reduce to a flash, the shot of Venu loaning over Janaki on bod, deleting 

the suggestive kissing. ......... 5-47 


Total . . . 5-47 


Actual length of the film will he 4257 -74 Mts. In 17 Reels. 

_ V 


M/8826 

‘Happy Life’ (Tamil) 
(colour) (35mm.) 

India. 

30 -48(1) 

Film Media, 

Bombay 

Shri Jyotl O. Thakur. 

67677 




14-8-74 

M/8827 

‘Quick Relief' 1 
(Telugu) (orwo co- 
lour) (35mm.) India.'/ 

30-48(1) 

Film Media, 

Bombay 

Shri Jyotl G. Thakur 

U 

67678 




14-8-74 

M/8828 

‘Life is Fun’ (Kan- 
nada) (orwo co- 
lour) (35mm.) India. 

30 -48(1) 

Film Media, 

Bombay. 

Shri Jyoti G. Thakur 

U 

67679 




14-8-74 

M/8820 

‘Thumbolarcha’ 

(Malay alam) ' 
(Eastmanoolour) 
(35mm.) India, 

4484 -20 
(17) 

F.xcol P> eductions, 
Allepey.’*! 

Excel Productions, 
Allepev, 

u 

67680 


16-8-74 

M/8123 

‘Tirapati’ (Tolugu) 

(35mm.) B&W. 

Tndia. 

4200 -00 

08)F 

Prasad international. 
Bangalore. 

Shri Veerarna fmnoni 
Prasad 

U 

67681 With cuts. 


17-8-74 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 67681 -U datod the 17th August 1974 — issued to the film 
‘Tirapathi’ (Telugu) (35mm.) B&W, 

Longth appliod. 4331 -76 Metros. 


Cuts. Metres 

1. Reel 7 — DeleU' the entire sequence of the Khojja (the offominate person) taking 

Tii apathl into his house sending him into the bathroom for a bath peep- 
ing through the keyhole and passionately looking at his body and at his 
dhoti scratching his own thigh getting excited standing on the bed 
listening to the song ‘Hum turn ekkamrame bund hain’ etc. until and 
upto Tirapathi running away to the road. (No objection to their meet- 
ing earlier in the restaurant.) . . . . . , . , 77-11 

2. Reel 10— -Delete the following dialoguo of Kusal Rao : — "Swatantram vachi 

patike Samvacharalyandi. Patika samvacharallalo mana peddavafianta 

kalisi tagito tappu ledannaru" 2-89 

3. Reel 10- Delete the following dialogue of a student in the hotel:- -“Katnale 

hharam perigi poyi aada pillalaku pelllalau choyalaka road mooda 
vakilestoo vyabhichara vrittiki dobadam chestunna yoo rojulio”. . 9 -74 

4. Reel 11 -Delete all tho kissing sounds botween a man and a woman in the hotel 

after they go outfield as Tirapati is watchi gag them. (Sound.) 

5. Reel 11 — Delete the following dialogue of Vljaya telling her paramour about her 

husband “Aadadi kavalane 'korika raatram vuntyndi. Pakkane Paduk- 
unna chalanam kooda vundadu'. (Replaced approved words.) 



Part. lit— S ec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22* ZftS 

V i " . iw i w ■ » n~ ' i i ~ m ■■ ~ r ~' — ■ i i j~ ' i f il ^ Hju w^y 

— - » - -i 1 ■ p r m >• ■ 1 . i ' nrHrr* — - 1 I 1 T ■ ' ■ 1 1 1 ' "* 1 1 “ 1 ' 1 ' m 1 ' ’ r f £ - ^ 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 


6. Reel 12 — From the song picturisafion delete Nayudu bava crossing his leg over 

Nafayanamma when both arc lying on bed. (Replaced insert Tira- 

pati) 0-91 

7. Reel 14- -Delete the following dialogue of Rusal Rao to his wife: — Mogudikosam 

Seetlm emi chesindi ? Ravanasurudi dagglraku vellindi Savitri emi 
chesindl 7 Yamudi daggiraku vallindt”. . • 5-78 

8. Reel 14 — From the Song picturisation , delete tho action of Kasai Rao opening the 

night gown and rubbing the bosom of Tirapati in a suggestive manner 
against the words “Choodu choodu” in the song-text. (Replaced 
previous shot 0 '45). ... 0 45 

9. Red 15 — Delete Sita’S sentonco “Drapudadiki eithuguru bhartalytc, nakurojuku 

eithuguru mogttllu. ......... 2 43 

10. Reel 15 — Delete the detailed sequence of Satya Rao killing Seetha by smothering 

her with a pillow on bed, retaining only the last shot for a suggestion. 10 -66 

11. Reel 16 — Reduce considerably Tirapati hanging precariously from hotel building 

holding a bed sheet. . . . . . . , . 11 '27 

12. Reel 17 — In the fighting scene, delete Tirapathi knocking the head of Satya Rao 

against the wall of the terrace 2-74 

13. Reel 17 — From tho speech of Tirapathi addressing the crowd after he kills Satya 

Kao, delete the following sentences : — “Dabbu kosam manishini nilu- 
vuna kalchese vally doraly. Tindi leka yee karuvule kali poyovally 
dongalu. Pillalni kooda ammukuno donga nayally doralu. Pillalku 
tindi pcttaloka vishamichi champukuncvally dongaiu”. . . 9-14 


Total ... 133 -12 


B/72801 

B/72709 

B/72712 

B/72711 

B/72710 

B/72409 

B/72688 

B/72667 


Total replacement — 1 -36 Mts. 

Actual length Is 4200 -00 Mts. In 18 Reels- 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certificate by the Central Board of Film Censors 
During the Weok ending 24th August 1975 BOMBAY 


“Indian Nows Review 
No. 1348-A” (Eng- 
lish & Hindi) (35mm) 
(News reel) 


U 

186 '53(1) Films Division, Govt. Film Division, Govt. 75837 
of India, 24- Peddar of India, 24- Peddar — — — - — 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 20-8-74 


"Time” (Music Only) 
(16 mm), (Docu- 
mentary). 


U 

155 45(1) Gopi Gajwani, V-Q Gopi Gttjwanl, V-Q- 75838 P.E. 

Rajnuri Garden, New Rajnari Garden, — 

Delhi-27. Now Delhi-27. 20-8-74 


"Uitrablend Cloarasil” 
(Hindi) (Colur) 
(35mm.) XAdvt.) 


U 

30 48(1) Film Media, 47-Laxmi Film Media, 47-Laxmi 75839 

Insurance Building, Insurance Building, — 

Sir P. M. Road, Sir P. M. Road, 20-8-74 

Bombay-1. Bombay-1. 


U 

"Clearasil Opens 30 48(1) Do. Do. 75840 

Dries Clears up Pip- — 

les" (Marathi) (Co- 20-8-74 

lour) (35mm.) 

(Advt.). U 

“Cloarasil Helps Fight 30 48(1) Do. Do. 75841 

Pimples” (Gujarati) ■ — - ■ 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 20-8-74 

(Advt.). 


U 

“A Voyage of Dis- 410 00(2) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75842 P.E, 

covery” (English) of India, 24- Peddar of India, 24-Pcddur — ■ — 

(35 mm.) (Documen- Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 20-8-74 

tary). 


“Fort Lauderdale Gift 
of the Sea” (Music 
Only) (Colour) (16 
mm.) (USA). 


tJ 

146 -61(1) United States Infor- Fort Lauderdale Ch- 75843 Not P.E . 
matron, Service, 4- amber of Commerce. — — • 

Now Marino Lines, 20-8-74 

Bombay-20. 


“You ’ll Love New 159 41(1) Do. 

Orleans" (English) 

(Colour) (16 nira.) 

(USA). 


U 

Greater New Orleans 75844 Not P.E. 
Tourist & Conven- 
tion Centre 


20-8-74 


2286 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER !3, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Part III-^Sec. 4 


l 

B/72671 

B/72714 

B/72713 

fl/72802 

fl/72803 

B/72682 

B/72786 

B/72787 

B/72696 

B/72698 

B/72687 

B/72784 


2 


“The South” (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(USA.). 


‘KaiU Bulu alias Zan- 
7irbar No Jadugar” 
(No dialogue or Com- 
mentary) (Colour) 
(35 mm.). 


3 4 5 6 


U 

134 ’41(1) United States Inl'or- Paramount Pictures 75845 

mation Service, 4- — - 

New Marine Lines, 20-8-74 

Bombay-20. 

U 

898 -25(4) Yogendra Desui, Yogendra Desai, 75846 

Sanskriti Bhavan, Sanskrit! Bhavan, — — ■ 

1C. M. Road, Bombay- K. M. Road, Bom- 20-8-74 
7. bay-7. 


7 


Not P.E. 


“The Farmer Speaks” 
(Punjabi) (Colour) 
(35mm). (Advt.) 


U 

61 -00(1) Jeevan Bhardwaj, S.C. Piute International. 75847 

0. 24, Sector, 17-E, ■ ■ - — 

Chandigarh. 20-8-74 


U 

“Indian News Reviow 221 -00(1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75848 (Valid for English, 

No. 1349” (News reel) oflndia, 24-Peddar of India, 24- Pcddar — - — — . Hindi, Marathi, 

(35 mm.) Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 21-8-74 Gujarati, Assa- 

mese, Oriya, Pu- 
njabi, Bengali 
Kashmiri, Urdu 
Versions.) 


“Indian News Review 304 '00(1) Do. 

No. 1349” (Southorn 
Edition) (Newsreel) 

(35 mm.) 


U 

Do. 75849 (Valid for English, 

— - Hindi, Tamil, 

21-8-74 Telugu, Kannada 
and Malayalam 
versions.) 


“All Your Aches 
Gone" (Gujarati) 
(Colour) (35mm.) 
(Advt.). 


U 

30-48(1) Climb Films, 22 Arun Climb Films, 22 Aurn 75850 

Chombers, Turdoo, Chembcrs, Tardeo, - 

Bombay-34. Bombay-34. 21-8-74 


“Puerto Rico A 
Pleasure to bo here” 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USA). 


U 

162-15(1) United States Informs- Tourism Development 75851 Not P.E. 
tion Service, 4- Co. — — — . — 

New Marino Lines, 21-8-74 

Bombay-20. 


“Vision USA 30“ 310-29(1) Do. 

(English) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) 


U 

W,H. Productions Ltd. 75852 P.E. 


21-8-74 


"Muuuriug Judicious- 
ly” (English) (Docu- 
mentary) (35 mm.) 


U 

393 -00(2) Filins Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75853 P.E. 
of India 24-Peddar of India, 24*Pcddar — — ■ — - 
Road, Bombay-26. Road, Bombay-26. 21-8-74 


“Alert Always" (Eng- 311 -00(1) Do. 

llsh) (35 mm.) (Do- 
cumentary). 


U 

Do. 75854 P.E, 


21-8-74 


"Welfare For The 
Poople-Search for 
harmoncy In Living" 
(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (Japan.). 


U 

300-00(1) Consulate General of Dentsu Motion Pic- 75855 P.E. 

Japun, Bombay. taros Co. Ltd., • ■■ 

21-8-74 


“Once Upon A Time” 
(English) (Colour) 
(Advt.) (35mm.) 


29 87(1) Zebaish Exhibition Zebaish Exhibition 
Services Pvt. Ltd., Service Pvt. Ltd,, - 

Nanavati Mahalaya, Nunavati Mahalaya, 

Bombay-1, Bombay-1, 


U 

75856 


21-8-74 


B/72694 “HarHar Mahadev” 4392-17(17) Joy Films, Tinwala Chandrakant M. Gor, 75857 With irianule mark 

(Hindi) (Colour) Bldg., Tribhuvan M 

(35 mm.) Road, Bombay-4. 22-8-74 

Emhrsement — 

Original Length : 4507 -38 m. 


Part III— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER J 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAVANA 22, 1897) 228? 



Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1. IV From the Rati-Kamdev dance before the medituting Shankar, 

delete all postures of the couple which look indecorous and 
vulgar, including the shots of close embraces, body contacts, 
sensuous looks, shaking bosom, lying on the ground, puling of 
male dancers’ legs over female dancer etc. . . 34 '44 m. 

(Replaced with approved shots— 9 14 m.) 

2. VI In the Soens when shiv tries to catch hold of Parvati, delete all 

indecorous shots 4 -57 m. 

3. VII Delete all prominent shots of suggestive nudity while Parvati 

is shown taking bath . 14 '32 m. 

(Replaced with approved blow up shots : 14 -32 m.) 

4. XVI Delete the entire sequence involving confrontation and fight 
& XVII between Ganesh and Hanuman which is not in conformity with 

accepted versions of mythology and might hurt the followers 

of Hinduism ......... 85 ‘34 m. 

Length of deletions : 138 -67 ni. 

Length of approvod replacement : 23 46 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 4392 -17 in. In 17 reels. 

U 

B/72716 “Trailer of Jab And- 96 48(1) The Roop Enterprises, Kailash Chopra. 75858 With triangle mark 

lieruu Hota Hai” Air Conditioned Mar- 

(Hindi) (Colour) ket, Bombay-34. 22-8-74 

(3J mm.) 

Endorsement — 

Original Length : 97 -54 m. 

Reduce the vtoionco in the fights, particularly the last one, avoiding all gruesome 

looking shots . . . . . . . . 1 06 m. 

(Length retained : 6-Olra.) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 96 48 m, 


B/72700 

B/72699 

B/72702 

B/72701 

B/72780 

B/72767-69 


“ I ho Nutcrackor” 742 00(3) Sovcxportfilni, Bom- Soyuzmultfllm Studio 
(English) (Colour) bay-5. 

(35 mm.) (USSR.) 

“Threo Tankmen" (295 00(1) Do. Do. 

(English) (Sovcolour) 

(35 mm.) (USSR) 


“Film Travol Al- 550 00(2) 

manac” (No. 82 Al- 
manuklt Kinoputesh- 
cstivii) (English) 

(Sovcolour) (35 mm.) 

(USSR). 


Central Popular Soi- 
onco Film Studios. 


U 

75859 P.E, 
22-8-74 
U 

75860 P.E. 
22-8-74 

U 

75861 P.E. 
22-8-74 


“Around The Soviet 290-00(1) 
LTniou No, 109” (Po- 
Sovotkimu So yuzu) 

(English) (Sovcolour) 

(35mm.) (USSR). 


75862 Not P.E. 
22-8-74" 


“Kolina’s Highways" 110 00(1) USSR Consulate Gena- Far Last Newsreel 75863 Not P.E. 


(Euglish) (Colour) 
(16mm.) (USSR). 


ral Bombay-26. 


Studios. 


23-8-74 


“Sumgait” (Colour) 110 00(1) 
(16 mm.) (USSR), 


Azerbaijan 

Studio. 


75864 Not P. E. (Valid 
- ~ - — for English, 
23-8-74 Hindi, Bengali, 
versions.) 


“Homo of Tho First 110 00(1) 
Atomio Station" 

(Colour) (16mm.) 

(USSR). 


75865 P.E. (Valid f or 

— ; English & Hindi, 

23-8-74 versions.) 


B/72781-82 


Leningrad documen- 
tary Film Studio. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) LPart Hi— Sec. 4 


B/72766 “Moscow Film Ro- 

vie# 1 No, 6” (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(USSR). 


278 00(1 ) USSRConsulate Gene- Central Documentary 
ral Bombay-26. Film Studio, 


U 

75866 P.F.. 
23-8-74 


B/72805 “Chakor Priya” 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


30-48(1) Kul Bhushan Anand, 
A/902, Punatn Ap- 
artment, Bombay-18. 


Kul Bhushan Anand, 
A/902, Pun am Ap- 
artment, Bombay-18, 


23-8-74 


B/72806 


Shublia Kamana” 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm.) (Advt.) 


30 -48(1) 


23-8-74 


B/72807 


B/72707 


B/72708 


“ K.ar Bhala Ho Bhala” 30-48(1) 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

(35mm.) (Advt.) 

“Van Vasino Vikas” 300-23(1) 

(Gujarati) (35 mm,) 
(Documentary) (Shor- 
ter Version) 


“Trailor of Mera Va- 92 -66(1) 
chan Goeta Ki Qua- 
sam" (Hindi) (Col- 
lour) (35mm.) 


Kul Bhushan Anand, 
A/902, Punarn Apart- 
ment, Bombay-18. 


Liaison Officer, Govt, 
of Gujarat. 


Kul Bhushan Anand, 
A/902, Punam Apart- 
ment, Bombay-18. 

Diroctor of Informa- 
tion, Govt, of Gu- 
jarat, Gandhinagar. 


U 

75870 P.E. 
24-8-74 


U 

M.M.R. Films, Vinod- Vinodkumar and A. 75871 

kumar and A. Nai- Nairang, M.M.R. 

rang, Bombay-18. Films. 24-8-74 


B/72743 “Spring Starts" (Eng 

lish) (Colour) (35mm) 
(USSR). 


664 -00(3) USSR. Consulate Go- Central Documentary 
noral Bonibay-26. Film. Studio 


24-8-74 


B/72762 “Wo are the State” 

(English) (Colour) 
(16 mm.) (USSR). 


293 -00(3) 


24-8-74 


B/72688 "Trailor of Chattan 

Singh” (Hindi) (Col- 
our) (35mm.) 


94-19(1) M/s Anubhav Films, M/s. Anubhav Films, 75874 

226/301, Famous 226/301 Famous 

Cine Bldg., Bombay- Cine Bldg, Bombay- 24-8-75 

II. 11. 


75874 With triangle mark. 


Endowment — 

Original Length : 104 -86 m. 

1. Mete molestation of a girl by a old man; 3 -20 m. 

2. Delete Chattan Singh abusing his wife and son 

3. Reduce tho impact of violence by doicting shots of gun fire and hard hitting. 

Length of deletions: 10 -67 m. 

Actual length oj the film ajter the aforesaid deletions will be : 94 T9 m. 

B/72320 "Genesis” (English) 7(4-02(3) Film and TV Insti- Film and TV Institute Rofused 

(35 mm.) tute of fndia, Law of India Law Col- Certificate 

College Road, Poona- loge Road, Poona A 

4. 21-8-74 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 
B/72358-60 

Film : “Chidiyagarh Ki Sair” (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 75151 of 12-6-1974 

This Certificate is also valid for Marathi, Bengali and Oriya versions of the film in colour. 
The length of tho film romaios unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 19th August, 1974. 



B/72664-65 

Film : “OMO” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 75278 of 11-7-1974. 



2289 


Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 1 3, 1 975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


J zzi r-“ 

6 


7 


C/8073 


C/8070 


This certificate is also valid for Marathi and Konkani vorsj< ns of tho film. 
The length of the film romains unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 19th August, 1974. 

B/50700 

Film : ‘Free lndood” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 51445 of 29-7-1967 

This certificate is also valid for Gorman version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsod on 19th August. 1974. 


B/72705-6 

Flint : “A Now Kind Of Fortune Teller” 

U-Cert. No. 74435 of 4-3-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Punjabi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th August, 1974. 


B/72703-4 

Film : "Jadumantar” (English) 

U.Cert. No. 74433 of 4-3-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Punjabi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of tho film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was ondorsed on 20th August, 1974. 


B/67533 

Film : ‘‘Jetty At Kalpakkam” (English) 

U-Cort. No. 71115 of 31-10-1972 

Deleted various shots : 87 -78 m. 

Aetna l length of the film after the afoi esaid deletions ti III he : 262 •14 m. 
This certificate was ondorsod on 20th August, 1974. 


B/61676 

Film : ‘‘Alsa Kyon" (Hindi) 
U-Cert. No. 62213 dt. 30-12-1970 


Film Division’s monogram is approved ; 3 -42 m. 

Added : "It is a Trivcni Pictures Presentation" : 3 -43 in. 

Actual length oj the film after the afoiesald additions will be : 70 -86 m. 
This certificate was endorsed on 22nd August, 1974, 


B/72804 

Film : ‘‘Bharat Teerth” (English) 
U-Cort. No, 74372 of 16-2-1974 


This certificate is also valid for the following versions of the film under the titles indicated against each of them 


Hindi 

Marathi 

Gujarati 

Bengali 

Assamose 

Orlya 

Urdu 

Punjabi 

Telupvi 

Malayalam 

Kannada 

Tamil 


Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Toerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teerth 
Bharat Teertham 
Bharatha Thoertham 
Bhaarata Dosha 
Bharata Dosam 


The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 24th August 1974, 

CALCUTTA 


Sukhi Grccho Konc 
(Documentary) (Ben- 
gali) (India). 


320-95(1) Shankar B.meiji Pro- Oepl. of Information 
d action 68/3 1 -C Govt, of W, Bengal 

Russa Road Cal-26. Writers Buildings 
Calcutta. 


Trailer of Mauchaak 99-06(1) 
(Bengali) ~ <35 mm.) 

(India). 


Pratima Pictures 56/9 Pratima Pictures 56/9 
M. N. Sen Road, M. N. Sen Road 
Calcutta Calcutta. 


U 

73477 

24-9-74 

U 

73478 
24-8-74 ‘ 



2290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1397) [Part III — Sue. 4 


1 

2 

C/8074 

Chhutir Ghanta (Ben- 
;ali) (35 mm.). 

M/8837 

Trailer of ‘Thacholi 
Marumagan Chandu’ 
(Malay alam( (Colour) 
(35 mm.) (India). 

M/8838 

‘Deergha Sumangali' 
(Telugu) (Partly 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

M/8836 

‘Hlmmatwall’ (Hindi) 
(35 mm.) B & W 
(India). 

M/8842 

Trailer of ‘A’khiri 
Nlshan’ (Hindi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(Lidia). 

M/8843 

Trailer of ‘Devi Kanya- 
Kumarl’ (Malayalam) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

M/8819 

•HoaratP (Telugu) 

(35 mm.) B & W. 
(India). 

M/8857 

Tamllnadu Govt. 

Regional News Bul- 
letin No. 122 (Tamil) 
(35 mm.) B & W. 
(India). 

M/8841 

‘Championalla Aylke’ 
(Kannada) (Eastman- 
colour) (35 mm.) 

(India), 

M/8834 

‘Devi Kanyakumori’ 
(Malayalam) (East- 
man colour) (35 mm.) 
(India). 

M/8829 

‘Bhaktha Kumbara 
(Kannada) (Eastman- 
colour) (35 mm.) 

(India). 

M/8844 

‘Take it Regularly’ 
(English) (orwocol- 
ourjOSmm.) (India). 

M/8854 

Build strenth and 
Resistance (English) 


Oikyatan 6/1*8/ Oikyatim 6/1-8/ Nor- 
Northern Avemio them Avenue 

Calcutta. Calcutta. 


MADRAS 


102 -10(1) Suchltramanjari 
Madras. 


Suchitaramanjari 

Madras. 


4251 ’96(16) Gopaliikrishria Prodns. GopalakrishnaPi'odns. 
Madras, Madras. 


3840 00(14) Koerti 

Madras. 


Chltra Keerti 

Madras. 


Chitra 


91 ’44(1) Hemalata Films (Ma- Himalata Films 
dras) Madras. (Madras) Madras. 


83 -82(1) Neela Productions Neela Productions 
Trivandrum. Trivandrum. 


4557-97(18) Devi Priyadharshni Devi Priyadarshini 
Pictures Madras. Pictures Madras. 


305-00(1) The Directorate of The Directorate of 
Information & Public Information & Public 
Relations Madras. Relations Madras. 


30-48(1) Shri M. S. Rajappan. Movie International, 

Madras. 


(orwooolour) (35 mm) 
(India). 


Week ending 3 Is/ August 1975 
BOMBAY 


B/72740 

“Education in USSR’’ 
(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (USSR.). 

697 -00(3) 

USSR Consulate 
Genera) Bom- 
bay-26. 

B/72783 

"Young NaturUest" 

350 -00(2) 

Do. 

(Entail) ' (Colour) 
(35 mnT) (USSR). 




Laningrad Documen- 
tary Film Studio. 


IJ 

73479 

24-8-74 

U 

67682 

19- 8-74 

U 

67683 

20- 8-74 

U 

67684 
20-8-74 

U 

67685 

*21-8-74 

U 

67686 

21- 8-74 


U 

67687 

22-8-74 

U 

67688 
T2-8-74 


U 

67689 

23- 8-74 

U 

3961 -18(15) Neela Productions Neela Productions, 67690 

Thiruvandrum. Trivandrum, — — 

24- 8-74 

U 

4340 -35(16) Lakshmi Film Com- Lakshmi Film Com- 67691 

bines, Madras. bines, Madras. — — 

24-8-74 

U 

30 -48(1) Cinerad Communic Cincrad Communica- 67692 

cations, Madras. tions, Madras. — — 

24-8-74 

U 

30 -48(1) Cinerad Communica- Cinerad Communica- 67693 

tions, Madras. tions, Madras. — — — — 

24-8-74 


U 

75875 P.E. 


26-8-74 

U 


Lower Volga Newsreel 75876 P. E 

Film Studio. — 

26-8-74 




B/72744-47 

B/72778 

B/72779 

B/72776 

B/72777 

B/72774-75 

B/72715 

B/72606 


"Soviet Army No. 2J” 597 00(2) USSR Consulate 

(35 mm.) (USSR). General, Bom- 

bay-26. 


"Unforgetable Years” 554 00 Do. 

(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (USSR) 


"Chelyabinsk" (Eng- 110 00(1) Do. 

lish) (Colour) (16 
mm.) (USSR) 


“Petrolium-Bom 
Town" (Eti 


(Colour) 

(USSR). 


110 - 00 ( 1 ) 


35 mm.) 


U 

Central Documentary 75877 Not P.E. Valid 

Film Studio. — for English Gu- 

26-8-74 jarati Tclugu & 
Kannada ver- 

sions. 

U 

Yeravan Documentary 75878 P.E, 

Film Studio. • • — 

26-8-74 

U 

Svedlvsk Film Studio 75879 

26-8-74 

U 

Central Popular Sci- 75880 Not P.E, 

once Film Studio. — 

26-8-74 


"Architectural Monu- 748 -00(3) Do. 

ments of Uzbekistan” 

(English) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (USSR) 


“Ivanov Experiences 110 00(1) Do. 

Rebirth” (English 
& Bengali) (Colour) 

(16 mm.) 


U 

Uzbekistan Popular 75881 P.E. 

Science and Educa- — - — — 

tion Film Studio. 26-8-74 


U 

Central Popular So- 75882 Not P.E. 

viet Film Studio. — 

26-8-74 


"Ranuia Na Raja 4084-52(16) Patel Films, Shankar 
Ramdev” (Gujarati) Naoar Society, Ah- 

(Colour) (35 mm.) meaabad. 


“Haath Ki Safai” 3889-36(16) Pushpa Pictures, 1-E 
(Hindi) (Colour) Naaz Buldg., Laming- 

(35mm.) ton Road, Bombay-4 


U 

Naranbhai V. Patel, 75883 

Babubhai R. Patel. 

27-8-74 

U 

I.A. Nadiadwnla, 11-E 75884 With triangle mark. 

Ntmz Bldg., Bombay- 

4. ' 27-8-74 


Endorsement— 

Original length : 3959 -29 m. 

Cut Reel 

No. No, 


B/72573 


B/72672 

B/72308 


1. I From Usmanbhai’s letter reading, delete the underlined word 

from “Turn aur hum ekhi bistarmon upar . ...” . (Inked off). 

2. XV In the scene of Raju hitting in jail, delete shots oi hard hittings 

on stomach and chin 1 -83 m. 

3. XV Delete hard hitting shots in fight between two brothers 2 -44 m. 

4. XVI Reduce the last fight considerably by drastically reducing hard 

hitting shots of hanging Kumar being banged on wagons, Ran- 

jit holding the child at the point of pistol and blood smeared 

face of Ranjit when he gets killod . ... 65-66 m, 

(Length retained : 50 -34 m.) 

Length of deletions : 69 -93 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3889 -36 m. in 16 reels. 


“Who killed The Sale” 242-64(3) AMA Education Pvt. Short Films Group, 75885 P.F. 

(English) (Colour) Ltd., Canada Bldg,, Rank Advt. G. Films. — — 

(16 mm.) (U.K.) Dr. D. N. Road, 27-8-74 

Bombay-1 . 

U 

“Faslah” (Hindi) 3884-00(15) Khwaja Ahmed Ab- Khwaja Ahmad Ab- 75886 

(Colour) (35 mm.) bas, Philomena Lo- bas, Philomena Lo- — — -— 

dge, Juhu, Bombay-54, dge Juhu, Bombay-54. 27-8-74 

U 

“Freedom" (English) 217-84(1) Shri Girish Karnard, Film & TV Institute 75887 With triangle mark. 

(35 mm.) Director Film & TV of India. — — — - 

Institute of India. 28-8-74 


20 — 369 01/75 




2292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part III— Sec. 4 

1 " ' “~2 3 4 5 6 ■ ■ ‘7 ■ " 


B/72845 


B/72843 


B/72833 


B/72674 


B/72798 


B/72799 


B/72800 


B/72830 


B/72829 


B/72814 


B/72835 


B/72250 


Endorsement : - 


Original Length: 256 '03 m. 

Delete all photocs of political leaders such as the Prime Minister, Ministers and 

the President and military officer . . . . . 38 T9 m. 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 217 -84 m. 


U 

“Indian News Review 225 00(1) F ilms Division, Govt. Films Division, Govt. 75688 Valid for English, 

No. 1350" (35 mm.) of India, 24-Peddar of India, 24-Peddai Hindi, Tamil, Tal- 

Road, Bombay-26. Road. Bombay-26. 28-8-74 lugu, Kannada, 

Malayalam, As- 
samese, Orlya, 
Puffiabi, Bengali, 
Kas hmir i and Urdu 
versions. 


“Indian Nows Review 300-00(1) Do. 

No, 1350” (Western 
Edition) (35 mm.), 


U 

Do. 75889 Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi, 

28-8-74 Gujarati, Sindhi, 
Versions. 


“Mahiti Chitra No. 
188" (Gujarati) (35 
mm.) 


U 

213-36(1) Liaison Officer, Govt. Director of Infcrma- 75890 

of Gujarat. tlon Govt, of Gujarat,- — 

28-8-74 


“Vividhata Mumbai- 
chi" (Marathi) (Co- 
lour) (35 m.) (Advt.) 


U 

30-48(1) Film Media, 47-Laxmi Film Media, 47 -La xmi 75891 
Insurance Bldg., Sir Insurance Bldg. Sir - — - • — 
P. M. Road, Bombay- P. M. Road, Bombay- 29-8-74 
1 . 1 . 


“Cloarasil For Pimple 30 -48(1) Do. Do, 

Contral”. (Marathi) 

(Colour) (35 mm.) 

(Advt.). 


“Clcarasil Proven 30 -48(1) Do. Do. 

Pimple Treatment" 

(Gujarati) (Colour) 

(35 mm.) (Advt.) 


“Fight Your Pimple 30-48(1) Do. Do. 

Problem With Clea- 
rasil” (Hindi) (Co- 
lour) (35 mm.) 

(Advt.). 


“Plastic Kabler Ro- 132-90(1) 
benhavn Roskilde” 

(Silent) (16 mm.) 


S. R, Skrishnaswamy, Denmark. 
Asstt. Engineer R.T. 

T. C. Sakinaka, Bom- 
bay-59. 


U 

75892 


29-8-74 


U 

75893 


29-8-74 


U 

75894 


29-8-74 


U 

75895 P.F. 


29-8-74 


“Cadences” The Five 
Bulge Tattoo" (Eng- 
lish) (Colour) (16 
mm.). 


U 

265 -80(1) Asstt, Engineer, T.T. Federal Republic of 75896 P.F. 

C. Sakinaka, Bombay- Germany. 

59. 29-8-74 


U 

“The Taste Matches 22 -86(1) F. B. Production Film F, B. Production, Film 75897 

up to tho name" Centre, 68-Tardeo Centre 68-Tardeo 

(English) (Colour) Road, Bombay-34. Road, Bombay-34. 29-8-74 

(35 mm.), 

U 

“Dum L«n Dum 30-00(1) Do. Do. 75898 

Badar" (Hindi) (35 

mm.) (Advt.) 29-8-74 

U 

“Laxml, the Supreme 30 -47(1) M/s. Yash Raj Films M/s. Yash Raj Films. 75899 

Beauty" (Telugu) Pvt. Ltd. Bombay. Pvt. Ltd. Bombay. — — — 

(Colour) (Advt.) 29-8-74 

(35 mm.) 



2293 


Part HI— Sec. 4fl THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


B/72253 “For Laxmi, A New 

Experience” (Kannada 
(Colour) (Advt.) 

(35 mm,). 


30 -47(1) 


B/722J0 & 54 “The complexion you 
wish you were Born 
With (Tamil) (Co- 
lour) (35 mm ) 
Advt.) 


30 47(1) 


29-8-74 


B/72250-54 “Got That Supremo 
Feeling" (Malyalam) 
(Colour) (3J mm.) 
(Advt.), 


30 47(1) 


29-8-74 


(B/72679 "Trip To Bombay” 

(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) (Advt.) 


30 48(1) Film Media, 47-Laxmi Film Media, 47-Laxmi 
Insurance Bldg., Sir Insurance Bldg., Sir 
P. M. Road, Bom- P. M. Road, Bom- 
bay-1. bay-1. 


30-8-74 


B/72796 "Get The Taste” 

(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) (Advt.) 


22 '86(1) M/s. Trio Films, M/s. Trio Films, 
Bombay. Bombay. 


30-8-74 


B/72797 "You’ve Got Taste” 

(English) (Colour) 
(35 mm.) (Advt.). 


B/72836 “Tal” (Hindi) (16mm) 

(Documentary) 


22 -86(1) 


265 48(2) Space Application Space Application 
Centre, Ahmedabad Centre. 


30-8-74 

U 

75906 P.E. 
30 '8-74 


B/727 56-60 ' ‘Abreast of Our Time’ ’ 

(16 mm.) (USSR). 


B/72761 “Moscow Film Rcviw 

No’ 5" (English) 
(Colour) (35 mm.) 


213 '00(2) USSR. Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 
neral. Bombay. Film Studio. 


272 -00(1) USSR Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 
neral. Bombay. Film Studio. 


(Valid for English, 

30-8-74 Kannada, TelugU| 

Gujarati, Mala- 

yalam, versions 

U 

75908 P.E. 

30-8-74 


B/72748 ‘For Outstanding 

Contribution in the 
cause of Peace” 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(USSR). 


110 - 00 ( 1 ) 


75909 Not P. E. (Valid 

■ — for Hindi, Kan- 

30-8-74 nada, Malayalam, 
Bengali, Gujarati 
and Marathi 
versions. 


B/72723 “Green petrol” (Co- 
lour) , I (16 mm.) 
(USSR). 


114-00(1) 


Odessa Film Studio 


75910 (Valid for Marathi 

Punjabi, Telugu, 

30-8-74 Kannada, Guja- 
rati versions). 


B/72734-35 


Inventions of Prof. 
Alexandrov” (Hindi 
and English) (16mm.) 
(USSR). 


109 -00(1) 


Central Popular Sci- 
ence Educational 
Film Studio. 


30-8-74 


B/72734-35; 


“Around The Soviet 
Union No. 102” 
(Colour) (16 mm.) 
(USSR), 


112 - 00 ( 1 ) 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio. 


75912 (Vlalid for Marathi, 

— Punjabi, Telugu 

30-8-74 versions.) 


B/72736-37 


“Soviet Army No. 20” 
(Marathi & Kannada 
(16 mm.) (USSR). 


236 -00(2) 


30-8-74 



2294 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [Part QMb^. 4 


B/72376-83 "Night Cargoes Pt. I 166 -73(1) National Education and 
The Wounded Stran- Information Cecil Musk, 

ger” (English) (16 Films Ltd,, National 

mm.) (U.K.), House Tulloch Road, 

Bombay- 1. 


75914 Not P.E. 
31-8-74 


B/72478 “Hope In the Hills” 562-36(2) Look Publicity, Bom- West Bengal State 75915 Not P.E. 

(English) (Colour) bay-50. Electricity Board. 

(35 mm.) 31-8-74 

A 

B/72673 "Vazhkfti Ragasyam" 3699-12(14) Adrsh Arts, Manek B. K. Adarsh, Adarsh 3235 

(Tamil) (Colour) Chamber Lamington Arts. Bombay-4. — 

(35 mm.) Road, Bombay-4. 27-8-74 


B/72282 “Jab Andheraa Hota 3479 -88(15) Kailash Chopra, 6145 The Roop Enterprises. 

Hai” (Hindi) Cu- Air Conditioned Mar- 

lour) (35 mm.), ket, Bombay-34. 


3236 With triangle mark. 
29-8-74 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3540 -56 m. 
Cut Reel 

No. No. 


1. 

T 

Reduce the scene of strangulation of the girl by deleting grue- 
some visuals ......... 

(Length retained : 1 -90 m.) 

1 -00 m. 

2. 

IV 

Reduce the fighting between Vikram and goondas in a dis- 
coutheque, deleting hard hitting shots Also delete the shot of a 
goonda looking from below indecorously at the exposed upper 

part of Roma’s thighs 

(Length retained : 36-80 m.) 

4 -79 m. 

3. 

VI 

Reduce by half the beating of Vikram by the gang of Dara 
(Length retained : 12 -65 m. ) 

1 -80 m. 

4, 

Vlll 

Reduce to the minimum the scene of two prostitutes at the bar 
and delate the dialogue of one of the prostitutes “jab tak kisi ki 

sharir ki aag nahi bujhaoongi " 

(Length retained : 2 -29 m.) 

7 -01 m. 

5. 

VIII 

Reduce the scene of Ratnosh making love to Alka, deleting shots 
of his kissing and caressing her thigh .... 

(Length retaned : 5 -07 m.) 

2 -02 m. 

6. 

VIII 

Reduce the strangulation of Alka by Pratap to the minimum 
(Length retained ; 8 -84 m.) 

-1-10 m. 

7. 

VIII 

Reduce the stangulation of Raaji by Pratap 
(Length retained : 1 -87 m,() 

0 -66 m. 

8. 

IX 

In the sequence of Roma and Vikram in the garden and during 
the pictunsation of the song, delete all suggestions of kissing 
between the two and reduce the shots of suggestive actions 
of hands pressing the back and logs ..... 

(Length retained : 3-81 m.) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 4 -22m.) 

4-22 m. 

9. 

X 

Delete the suggestion of kiss between Roma and Vikram and 
reduce shots of suggestive actions of hands pressing at the back 
(Length retained : 1 -35 m.) 

2-28 m.) 

10. 

XI 

In the scene of imaginary killing of Ramcsh by Pratap, reduce 
Pratap hitting Ramcsh with the car to the minimum 
(Length retained : 7 -82 m.) 

9 -03 ,m. 

11. 

XI 

During the cabaret dance, delete indecorous actions of dancers 
and Vikram ......... 

( Replaced with approved shots : 3 -44 m.) 

3 -44 m. 

12. 

XII 

Reduce the strangulation of a cabaret girl in the bath tub 
(Length retained ; 0 -32m. 

0 -22 m. 

13. 

XIV 

Reduce drastically the beating of Vikram on the bridge by 
goondas, by deleting gruesome and hard hitting shots and 
prominent shots of their bloodmeared faces 
(Length retained : 26 -56 m.) 

28 -19 m. 

14. 

XV 

Delete the shot of attempted strangulation of Vikram by Pratap 
and also reduce the fight. ....... 

1 -61 m. 



Vol. deletions in reel 2: 

0 -97 m. 



Part HI— Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2295 



- 

— 




- - 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


Length of deletions : 67 -37 m. 


Length of approved replacement : 7 66 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 ‘88 m, in 15 reels, 

A 

B/71110 “The Summertime Kil- 2799 -81(1 1) Sir Gancsh Prasad Antonio 3237 With triangle mark. 

ler" (Revised) (Eng- Movies, C/o Asia — — 

fish) (Colour) (35mm) Films, 315/G, New 31-8-74 

(Rome) Chami Rd., Bombay-4. 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 2812-83 m. 

The original version of the fllm (B/69354) was refused a certificate for public exhibition. 
Cut Reel 

No. No. 


1. 

I 

In the protitle sequence, delete repeat shot of the hero’s father 
pushed down the steps and the second shot of his head going 
under water 

2-74 

2, 

1 

In the train sequence, delete the second shot of shooting by the hero 
and the second shot of gangster falling .... 

2 ‘44 m. 

3. 

II 

Reduce impact of killing of the third gangster in Rome 
(Length retained : 0 -61 m.) 

0 -30 m. 

4. 

IX 

Delete the end portion of Ray and Tania in bed including the 
removal of strap of brassiers ..... 

4-88 nn 

5. 

X 

Reduce considerably draggingof dead bull 
(Length retained : 0 -91 m.) 

1 -83 m. 

6. 

X 

Delete the last portion of the scene when the head of a man 
dinging to the running motor-cycle is bashed against the wall 
of a bridge 

1 -83 m. 

7. 

XI 

Modify the superimposed title at the end to remove the im- 
pression that he was sentenced to three years only as this puni- 
shment is not adequate. 

(This has been modified by stating that’ RAY WAS FINALLY 
CAUGHT BY THE POLICE AND IMPRISONED) 


Length of deletion: 14 02 m. 


Actual 

length 

of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 2799 ‘81 

m. 


B/72460 “Indian Nows Review 200 -00(1) Films Division, Govt, Film Division Bom- Refused 

No. 1350-A” (Eng- of India 24 Peddar bay-26. certificate 

lish) and Hindi) Road, Bombay- 26. — . .... 

(35 mm.). 30-8-74 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 


B/72785 

Film ; "Your Family’s Best Friend” (English) 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th August, 1974. 

B/72819-21 

Film : "Mother Care” (English) 

U-Cert. No. 75220 of 26-6-1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu and Kannada versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th August, 1974. 

B/72813 

Film : “The Camera" (English) 



22 % THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13,1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1 897) [Fart Hi— S ec. 4 



U-Cert. No. 75219 of 26-6-1974 


This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th August, 1974. 

B/72808-12 

Film ; “Chand Ka Tukda" (English) 

U-Cert. No. 75284 of 11-7-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada and Hindi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th August, 1974. 

B/72596 

Film : "‘Trimurti" (Hindi) 

U-Cert. No. 75525 of 1-8-1974. 

Reel No, IX Deleted various shots 0-91 m. Reel No, XIV Deleted various shots 9-75 m. 

XIII Deleted various shots 13 '41 m. XV Deleted various shots 17-07 m. 

Length of deletions : 41 -14 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 4268 -73 m. 

This certificate was endorsed on 26th August, 1974. 

B/72790-95. 

Film : "Rang Mein Aiyo" (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 75551 of 6-8-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Marathi, Gujarati, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film 
In colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th August, 1974. 

B/72788-89 

Film : “His Name is Today” (English) (35 mm.) 

U. Cert. No. 75594 of 14-8-1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Marathi versions of the film. 

The length of the film remains unchanged. 

This certificate was endorsed on 29th August, 1974. 

B/72283 

Film : "Doosri Soeta” (Hindi) (Colour) 

U-Cert. No. 75196 of 24-6-1974. 

Reel XII Deleted various shots : 79 80 m. 

XII Added various shots ; 73-15 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3000 -82 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 30th August, 1974. 

CALCUTTA 


C/8088 


Paschim Banga Sar- P8A Panna Sen P8A, B. K. Dept, of Information, 73480 

karer Sangbad Chitra Paul Avenue, Cal- Govt, of W. Bengal 

No. 60 (Newsreel) cutta. Writers Buildings, 24-8-74 

(Bengali) 35 mm. India Calcutta. 


Tinti Padakhyep (Ben- 24R 
- - gali) (35 mm.) India 


U 

73481 


C/8077 


Grafilm’s 72C 24, R, 
Rustantjee St. Cal- 
cutta. 


Do. 


27-8-74 


f»ARt III— SEC. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2297 


C/8082 Trailer of Ngak-E- 

Konangse (Manipur) 
India, 


Punnam Pictures. Punnam Pictures Basant 73482 

Manipur. Manipur. — 

27-8-74 


C/8085 Silent Service (Eng- 487 '68(2) Image India Films P. Image India Films P. 73483 

lish) (Colour) 35 Ltd. 9/4, Lovelock Ltd. — < — — 

mm. India. Place, Calcutta-29. 27-8-74 


27-8-74 


C/8076 


Roses And Thorns 443 48(2) Atul Sarmah C/o Oil Atul Sarmah, 
(English) 35 mm. India Ltd. Duliajan, 


Assam. 


29-8-74 P.E. 


C/8080 Progress Through Re- 585-21(2) Ashis Mukherjee Look Central Mechanical 7348J 

search (English) 35 Publicity 3, C. R. Engineering Research 

mm. India. Avenue, Cal-13. Institute, Durgapur 29-8-74 


C/8083-84 Kolkata Badlate Cha- 548 -64(2) Contemporary Films Contemporary Films, 
leche (Bengali), (Eng- 38J-A, Block ’O’ New 

llsh) 35 mm. India. Alipore, Calcutta-53. 


29-8-74 


C/8087 Rakta (Blood) (Ben- 2433 -60(7) C. Dasgupta Pnduc- C. Das Gupta Produc- 

ga 11) 35 mm. India. tions 385-A, Block tions, 

‘G’ New Alipore, 

Calcutta-53. 


29-8-74 


C/8081 Pratibimba (Bengali) 2894 08(11) Nandan Chltram, 48, Sharan Dey. 

35 mm India. Chandra Mandal Lane, 

Calcutta-26. 


29-8-74 


C/8086 Dovi Choudhuranl 3979-78(15) Sanchayita Films 58/ Dinen Gupta 

(Bengali) 35 mm. 82A, Prince Anwar 

Road, Calcutta -45. 

MADRAS 


13-8-74 


M/8833 ‘Unnaithan Tharabi’ 3964-83(16) Geetha Chitra, Geetha Chitra, 67694 With Cuts. 

(Tamil) '35 mm. Madras. Madras. —— 

B & W India. 26-8-74 

Endorsement on cert. No. 67694-U dt. 26th August 1974 issued to the film ’Unnaithan Thambi’ (Tamil) 

Length applied. 3987 -37 Metres. 

Cuts Reel Mts. 


1 Delete the display of ‘Nlrodh’ in the hands of the man in hotel 0 -91 

4 Delete the shots of midriff, bare legs, seen in parts, of the 
singers. 

(b) ail shots inside the bathroom, the girl in the bath-tube, 
outside the bath-tub, and all tho actions of Kumar with the 
Singer. (Replaced approved shots 64 -30) 64-30 

7 Delete tho word ‘Arangetram’ uttered by the cook and kumar 

(Sound). — 

7 Delete Manorama’s words ‘Aymbathil Illaya?. . . Ezhuvathia- 

arllum Irukkadhu upto Therlyum’ and the words referring 

to corruption being prevalent In other States^. . 12-49 

13 Reduce molestation sequence to a flash, deleting action of 
Kumar’s toaring Lalitha’s blouse and his lying over her in the 
cot, both in the long and close-shots 9T< 


Total replacement 64-30 Mts. 

Actual length will be 3964 -83 Metres in 16 reels. 


M/8796 ‘Anbu Thangai’ (Tamil 3981-00(16) Gowri Arts Enter- Gown Arts Enter- 67695 

(35 mm) B Sc W prises, Madras. priss, Madras. 

(India). 


28-8-74 



2298 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 2 1, 1897) [Part III^-Sec. 4 





' 

" 

j 

i 

1 

r 

1 

1 

2 

3 

5 

5 

6 

7 


M/8835 


U 

‘Dhanavanthulu Gu- 3863 -53(1 5) Devi Arts, Madras Devi Arts, Madras 67696 With cuts, 

navanthulu (Telugu) — ■ — — — 

(35 mm). B & W 28-8-74 

(India), 

Endorsement on Oort. No. 67696-U Dated the 28th August 1974 issued to the film 'Dhansvanthulu Gunavanthulu (Telugu) 
35mm, B &W 

Length applied 3866-87 metres. 


Cuts. Reel 

1, 10 From the pioturisation of the song beginning with the words 

“Yee glasula dhwanee" delct the following:- 

(1) Nagu (in the guise of Raja) holding the raises log of 
Madhuri against the song line “Yee tarunam jari peradu". 
(Replaced insert of Raja 1 -22) 

(b) Maduri keeping her log on the swing stretching it in a 
raised posture, (replaced oil painting insert 1 -22) , 

(e) the suggestive kissing between Madhuri and Nagu on bed 
after the end of the song ...... 

(d) from the song text, delete the following lino 
"Mana mana sattuva choodamu’ 


Total 

Total replacement 2 -44 metres. 

Actual length of the film will be 3863 -53 metres in 15 reels 


Metres 


1 -22 

1 -22 

1 -22 
1 -52 
5-78 


U 


M/8859 

’Angel Form' (Mala- 
yalam) (35 mm). 

B &W (India). 

36-57(1) 

jesoy Designers, Co- jesoy Designers, 
chin. chin. 

Co- 

67697 

31-8-74 

M/8872 

'Nalla Panda m' 

(Tamil) (35 mm.) 
B&W (India) 

833 -90(3) 

Merak Private Ltd., Marak Private 
Madras. Madras, 

Ltd., 

U 

67698 

31-8-74 P.E. 

M/8862 

‘AdapIUala Thandri’ 
(Telugu) (35 mm.) 
B & W (India) 

4302-85(16) 

St. thy a Enterprises, Sathya Enterprises. 

Madras, Madras. 

U 

67699 

31-8-73 


(Sdl- A .IK . SARKAR) 
For Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


PMNTBD BY TUB MANA6EH, GOVERNMENT OF *fl)IA PRESS, FAJHDABAD 
Atm PUBLISHED >Y Till CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1975 



