et po po 222 


REGISTERED No. D . 22 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


माधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

- - :- : :- - ....-. - - 
& fareit, sifaTT, 8 , 1968 /wuje 18, 1890) 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


T 


- 


Ħo 231 
No. 23 ) 


इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संल्यापी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparato paging in dvon to this part in order that it may bo hlod 

as 4 separate compllation . 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
नीचे लिखे भारत के प्रसाधारण राजपत्र 23 मई, 1968 तक प्रकाशित किये गये । 

The undernícntioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 23rd 
May, 1968 : 


Issue 
No, 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


179 S. Q . 1852 , dated 21st May, Ministry of Finance 

1968 . 


S . O . 1853 , dated 21st May, 

1968 , 


Do. 


Delegation of powers by the 
Director of Enforcement to 
all officers of Enforcement of 
and above the rank of Chief 

Enforcement Officer. 
Authorising shri D . K . Guba , 
Assistant Director of Inspec 
tion , Income-tax to cxercise 
all the powers and discharge 
all the duties of an Assistant 

Director of Enforcement. 
Notifying the State Industrial 

and Investment Corporation 
of Maharashtra Limited , Bom 
bay for the purposes of sub 
clause (f) of clause ( iii) of 
sub -section (3 ) of section 
194A of the Income- tax Act , 
1961. 
Substitution of an entry in the 
notification No. 56 /67- III 
( S . O . 3483), dated 26th Sep 
tember , 1967. 


180 S . O . 185.1, date 21st May , 

1968 . 


Do. 


181 S . O . 1855 , dated 23rd May , Election Commission 
1968 . 

of India , 


( 2657 ) 


2658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


Issue 
No. 


No, and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


182 S. O . 1356, dated 23rd May, Central Board 
1968 , 

Direct Taxes . 


of 


The Income tax ( Third Amend 
ment) Rules, 1968 . 


183 S.O . 1857, dated 23rd May , Ministry of Commerce Further amendment to the 
1968, 

Exporta ( Control) Order , 

1968. 
184 S . O . 1858 , dated 23rd May , Election Commission Amendment in notification 
1968 . 

of India , 

No . 100 /AS/HP/5 /68 ( 2 ) , 
clated 19th April , 1968. 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , मिविल लाइन्म , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेदी जायेगी । मांगपत्र प्रवन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की 
तारीख से दिन के भीतर पहुंच जाने वाहिए । 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


Wir II - - Q 3 - ( ii ) 

PART II — Section 3 - Sub -section ( ii ) 
( THI M OTXT) - 824 ATATEATraut ate ( Hot ESIT FT ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक आवेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 25th May 1968 
8 . 0 . 1957. - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act . 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 
Oth / 12th February , 1968 by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad In Election 
Petition No . 26 of 1967. 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD 

ELECTION PETITION No. 25 OF 1987 
9th and 12th February , 1988. 

DISTRICT : Panchmahals. 
THE HON BLE MR. JUSTICE B . J . DIVAN . 
Shri Babubhai Vallabhdas Gandhi, aged about 45 , occupation Business , 

residing at Prabha Kunj Society , Godhra , Dist. Panchmahals. - Peti 
tioner . 

Versus 
Shri Piloo Homi Modi, aged about 40 years , occupation Business , residing 

at Dadino bungalow , Opp., Mission College , Prabha Road, Godhra , - - 

Respondent. 
Mr. C . T . Daru with Mr. N . J . Mehta. — for the petitioner . 
M /s . 1. M . Nanavati and P .M . Raval. - for the Respondent. 


Sec . 3(li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2659 


CORAM : DIVAN J. 

(9 / 12 - 2 - 1968 ) 

Oral Judgment. 
This is an elector s petition challenging the election of the respondent to the 
Lok Sabha from Godhra Parliamentary Constituency No. 16 . The election which 
is challenged was held at the time of the last general clections on February 18 , 
1967, and the result was declared on February 24 , 1967. At this clection for the 
Lok - Sabha seat the candidates were the first respondent, sponsored by the 
Swatantra Party , Maneklal Gandhi, sponsored by the Congress Party , Babubhai 
Amin , sponsored by the Praja - Socialist Party and one Bipin Bhatt , who contest 
ed the election as a non - Party vandidate . When the results of the elections 
were declared , it was found that the respondent won the election by a margin of 
nearly 24 ,449 votes over his nearest rival, Maneklal Gandhi; and 1,519 votes were 
rejected by the Returning Officer and the respondent having obtained the Highest 
number of votes in his favour was declared elected by the Returning Officer on 
February 24 , 1967. 


In this petition , the petitioner has prayed for a declaration that the election 
of the respondent to the Lok Sabha from Godhra Parliamentary Constituency is 
void and ineffective and for further and other reliefs and costs of the petition . 
The petitioner has allcged in his petition that different types of corrupt prac 
tices were committed by the respondent or by some persons or by persons other 
than the respondent with his consent and the corrupt practices which are alleged 
are, firstly , that in contravention of the provisions of s . 123 ( 7 ) of the Repre 
gentation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as the Act ) the reg 
pondent, his election agent and others hud obtained and procured the assistance 
of three Police Patels in order to further the election prospects of the respon 
dent. The second corrupt practice which has been alleged against the respon 
dent is that he had incurred or authorized expenditure in contravention of the 
provisions of S . 77 of the Act. The third corrupt practice which is alleged 
against the respondent is that the election agent of the respondent committed 
an offence of bribery by offering and paying a sum of Rs. 1 ,500 to one Jesinobhai 
Hemabhai Maliwad , who was a duly nominated candidate for the Gujarat State 
Legislative Assembly seat from Salia Constituency . The area of Salia Consti 
tuency is included in the larger area covered by Godhra Parliamentary Consti 
tuency ; and Jesingbhai Hemabhai Mallwad was the candidate sponsored by the 
Praja Solialist Party and within the time permitted by law he had withdrawn) 
his candidature ; and the allegation against the respondent is that contrary to 
the provisions of S . 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) of the Act, gratification was offered and paid 
In order to induce the said Jesingbhai Hemabhai Maliwad not to stand as a candi. 
date at this election . It is also alleged against the respondent that he and his 
Agents and his workers utilized the pictorial representation of Gandhili in order 
to canvass votes and it is therefore , alleged that there was an appeal hv the 
respondent or his agents or by other persons with the consent of the respondent 
to vote for the Swatantra Party candidates by use of national symbol, viz . , pictorial 
representation of Gandhiji; and in this connection it has been contended on behalf 
of the petitioner that the pictorial l epresentation of Gandhiji is a national sy117 
bol or emblem and that surh use or appeal was made for the furtherence of the 
prospects of the election of the respondent and for prejudicially affecting the 
election of the candidate sponsorded by the Congress Party . 

In his Written Statement the respondent has denied the different allegations 
of facts and he has also raised certain technical contentions. For the purposes 
of this judgmet, I need only refer to the technical contention which has been 
relied upon even at the stage of arguments before me viz ., that because of the 
non - joinder of Jesinghhat Hemabhai Maliwad as 3 Party - Respondent in this 
petition , there is a fatal non - joinder so far as S . 86 read with S . 82 of the Act 
is concerned and , therefore , on the ground of non - joinder of Jesingblini Hemabhai 
Mallwad the petition is llable to be dismissed . The other technical ohjections do 
not require mention at this stage . 


dismissed.nondioinder copulence 82 of the this 


On the rival contentions of the parties , the following issues were raised : 

(1 ) Whether the petition is barred by limitation ? 
( 2 ) Whether the petition fails to comply with the provisions of Ss. 81, 32 

or 89 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? If yes , whether 
the petition is maintainable ? 


2660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUXE X , 1968 / YAISTHA 18 . 1890) 


PART II - 


. . - AVA 


( 3 ) Whether the petition is signed and verified as required by law ? 
(4 ) Whether the affidavit in support of the aller itions of corrupt practice 

is in accordance with law ? 
( 5 ) Whether Jesingbhal Hemabhai, referred to in para 14 of the Written 

Statement is a necessary party to this petition ? If so , what is the 

effect of non - joinder of Jesingbhai Hemabhai to this petition) ? 
(6 ) Whether the petitioner proves that the respondent or his agent or any 

other person named in the petition , with the consent of the respon 
dent or his election agent obtained or produced or abetted or allen ; pt 
ed to obtain or procure any assistance of any person named in the 
petition and in the service of the Government and belonging to any 
of the classes mentioned in S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act ? Whether the peti 
tioner proves that Punabhai Patel referred to in para of the peti 
tion , or Kalubhai Haribhai referred to in para 10 of the petition or 
Shanaji Punjaji, referred to in para 13 of the petition , was a person 
in the service of the Government and belonging to any of the classes 
mentioned in S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act ? Whether the Petitioner proves 
that the respondent or his election agent or any other person named 
in the petition with the consent of the respondent or his election 
agent obtained or procured or abetted or attempted to obtain or", 
procure any assistance from Punabhai Patel. Kalubhai Haribhai or 
Shanaji Punaji for the furtherance of the prospects of the respon 

dent s election ? 
( 7 ) Whether the petitioner proves that the pictorial representation of the 

figure of Mahatma Gandhi is a national symbol ? Whether the peti 
tioner proves that the respondent or his agent or any other person 
named in the petition with the consent of the respondent or IUN 
election agent made use of such national symbol or appealed to such 
national symbol for the furtherance of the prospects of the respon 
dent s election or for prejudicially affecting the election of the candi 

date supported by the Congress Party ? 
( 8 ) Whether the petitioner proves that the respondent incurred or autho 

rized incurring of expenditure in contravention of S . 77 of the Re - > 

presentation of the People Act ? 
( 9 ) Whether the petitioner proves that the respondent or his agent or any : 

other person named in the petition with the consent of the respon . 
dent or his election agent offered or promised to pay to Jesingbhal 
Hemgbhai a sum of Rs. 1 ,500 or any other amount with the object 
directly or indirectly of inducing the suid Jesingbhai Hernabhai to 
withdraw from being a candidate at the State Legislative Assembly 

Election from Salia Constituency in Godhra District ? 
( 10 ) What relief, if any , the petitioner is entitled to ? 
( 11 ) What orders ? 


When the matter reached hearing before me on January 29 , 1968, Mr. Raval, 
on behalf of the respondent stated that he did not wish to press issues Nos . 1, 3 
and 4 ; and Mr. Daru , on behalf of the petitioner stated at that time that in view 
of the judgment delivered by me in Election Petition No. 24 of 1987, on October 
23, 1967, he did not wish to urge uny arguments or lead any evidence on issue 
No. 7 ; and , therefore, no evidence has been led nor have any arguments been 
advanced before me regarding issuc No. 7 . As regards issue No. 8 regardin : the 
incurring or authorizing of expenditure in contravention of the provisions of 
S . 77 of the Act, on January 30 , 1968, when the Court assembled for the day , 
Mr. Daru , on behalf of the petitioner , informed me that he did not wish to press 
issue No. 8 any longer and , therefore, he has not led any further evidence after 
that stage so far as issue No. 8 is concerned and no arguments have been advanc 
ed before me as regards issue No. 8 . As regards issue No. 9 , regarding the offer : 
of Rs. 1, 500 to Tesinhhai Hemabhai Maliwat and the payment of that sum of 
money to Jesingbhai Hemabhal Maliwad, some vidence was led on behall of the 
petitioner and two witnesses, viz , Mavsing K : labhai Parmar , Petitioner s Witness 
No. 14 ; and Jesingbhai Hemabhai Maliwad , Petitioner s Witness No. 20, were 
examined After leading the evidence of these two witnesses , though the issue 
has not been in terms given up , no arguments have been advanced on behalf of 
the petitioner regarding this particular allegation of bribery under S . 123 ( 1 ) of 
the Act ; and Mr. Daru has very wisely not addressed any arguments on that 
point. In view of the evidence of Jesingbhai Hemabhni Maliwad , who has clearly 
denied having been offered or paid any sum for withdrawing his candidature and 


Sec , 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETUE OF INDI: JUNE 8 , 1968 / FYAIST HA 18 . 1890 2661 

= 
in view of the fact that Jcsingbhai has not been declared a hostile witne3s , it is 
clear that the petitioner s case regarding this allegation of bribery could never 
have been established . Mavsing s evidence in view of the contradictions brought 
on record also does not inspire any confidence and , thereforc , very wisely no 
arguments have been advanced before me regarding issue No. 9 . 


Under these circumstances, the only issues which survive for my considera 
tion at the present stage are issues Nos . 2 , 5 and 6 , rest of the issues having been 
either expressly given up or not pressed at the stage of arguments before Inc in 
view of the evidence already recorded in this case . So far as issues Nos, 2 and 
$ gre concerned , both these issues relate to the alleged defect in the petition on 
the ground of non - joinder of Jesingbhai Homabhai Maliwad , as a Party - Respon 
dent to this petition . It is to be borne in mind that the election which is challeng 
ed in the present proceedings is to the Lok - Sabha seat from Godhra Pariiamen 
tary Constituency . Jesingbhai Hemabhal Maliwad was not a candidate from this 
constituency. He was a candidate from Salia Constitucncy for the Gujarat State 
Legislative Assembly Seat. It is true that the area covered by Salia Assembly 
Constituency seat is included and is a part of the larger area covered by the 
Godhra Parliamentary Constituency and it is also true that at the time of the 
last general elections, the elections to the State Legislative Assembly and to the 
Parliament were held on one and the same day. Each clector had to cast his 
votes for the Parliamentary Constituency as well as for the State Legislative 
Assembly Seat on one and the same day but the elections were to different legis 
lative bodies and the constituencies were not identical. It is well-settled law 
that if there are any allegations of corrupt practice against any candidate , he 
raust be joined as a party to the petition and in view of the decision of the 
Supreme Court in K . Kamaraja Nadar v . Kunju Thevar. A . I. R . 1958 S . C ., 187 , it 
k clear that even a person who has withdrawn his candidature within the time 
termitted by law , is a candidate so far as the provisions of S . 82 (b ) of tlie Act 
are concerned , By S . 82 of the Act provision is made regarding the parties to the 
petition and S . 82 provides that a petitioner shall join as respondents to his peti 
tion all the contesting candidates other than the petitioncr ; and where a declara 
ton that the election of all or any of the candidates was void is sought all the 
returnci candidates are required to be joined as Party - Respondents under cl. ( a ) 
of s . 82 . Then cl. (b ) provides ; --- 
" A petitioner shall join as respondents to his petition any other candidate 

against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the 
petition ." . 


Now , the words: Many other candidate " occurring in sub - section (b ) of S . 82 
clearly indicates that the candidates other than those who are referred to in sub 
section ( a ) and against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made must 
be joined as party - respondents in every election petition . The provisions of S . 82 
( b ) are not to be read in isolation and they must be read in the context of sub 
section ( a ) of that sertion and when the two sub - sections are read together , it 
is clear that the candidates who are required to be joined must be candidates 
either contesting or non - contesting , who were candidates for the election . which 
is sought to be challenged . Under $ . 79 ( b ) , a candidate means a person who 
has been or claims to be dulv nominated as a candidate at any election and any 
such person shall be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when , 
with the election in prospect, he began to hold himself out as a prospective 
candidate . It is, therefore . clear that though Jesingbhai Hemabhai Maliwad was 
a candidate within the meaning of S . 79 ( b ) of the Act. he was a candidate for 
the Gujarat State Legislative Assembly Seat from Salia Constituency and he was 
not a candidate for the Lok Sabha Seat from Godhra Parliamentary Constituency , 
Under these circumstances , he cannot be said to be a candidate 50 far as the 
respondent, who is a returned candidate from Godhra Parliamentary Consti 
tuency is concerned . The election which is challenged and the declaration in 
respect of which is sought for in this petition is the election to the Goddhra 
Parliamentary Constituency and not the election from Salja Lepislative Assembly 
Constituency . Under those circumstances, it is clear that Jesingbhai Hemabhai 
Maliwad , against whom there are allegations of having agreed to receive the sum 
of Rs. 1 , 500 for withdrawal of his candidature and further of having received the 
Dayment of that sum as a consideration for withdrawal of his candidature ( and 
those are allegations of corrupt practice under S . 123 ( 1 ) ( B ) ( a ) was not a 
necessary party to this petition . As a matter of fact he was not at all a proper 
party to this petition , the two Constituencies being entirely different. Hence 
these two issues Nos , 2 and 5 must be answered against the respondent. I must 


2662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART 11 


- 


- 


- 


w 


say at this stage in fairness to Mr. Nanavati, the learned counsel for the respon 
dent, that though he has not given up these points , he has not seriously canvases 
these points before me. 

That leaves now only the question as regards issue No. 6 ; and that is regarding 
the use of the services of the three Police Patels for the election canpaign of 
the respondent. 

In this connection , it is alleged that the respondent or his election agent or 
some person named in the petition with the consent of the respondent or his elec 
tion agent obtained or procured the assistance from Punabhai Pratapsing Patel , 
Kalubhal Haribhai and Shanaji Punajaji; and that this was done for the further 
ance of the prospects of the respondent s election , 

It is not in dispute belore me that at the relevant tine Punabhai Pratapsing 
Patel of Chandpur village in Godhra Taluka , Kalubhai Haribhai of Parabla village 
also in Godhra Taluka and Shanaji Punjaji oť Mava village in Malpur Taluka of 
Sabarkantha Dlatrict, were the Police Patels of their respective villages. Evidence 
has been brought on the record in the shape of Exs. " A " and " F " , to show that 
Purabhai Pratapsing and Kalubhai Haribhal were appointed Police Patelsoľ 
Chandpur and Parabia villages respectively and Shanaji Punaji had been appoint 
ed Police Patel of Nava village . It is also not in dispute before me that Punabhai 
Pratapsing acted as the Polling Agent of the respondent at Chandpur Polling 
Station . It is also not in dispute before me that Kalubhai Haribhai acted as the 
polling Agent of the respondent at Morwa- Hadap village, where there was a Polling 
Station at the Guparati Primary School located in that village, and it is also not 
in dispute before me that Shanaji Punjaji Damor acted as the Polling Agent of 
the respondent at Masadra village Polling Station in Sabarkantha District . It is 
common ground between the parties that several villages of Banaskantha District 
were included in the area covered by Godhra Parliamentary Constituency and 
villages of Nava , and Masadre were included in the area of Godhra Parliamentary 
Constituency . Exhibits " H " and " I" on the record of this case , are the forms 
appointing Kalubhai Haribhal as the Polling Agent of the respondent at Morwa 
Hadap Gujarati School Polling Station and Punabhai Pratapsing as the Polling 
Agent of the respondent at Chandpur Polling Station respectively ; Ex . " M " is the 
forn appointing Shanaji Punjajt Dumor as the Polling Agent of the respondent at 
Masadra ; and each of these three forms, Exs. " H " , " I" and " M " bear the rubber 
stamp impression of the signature of the respondent. 


The questions that arise for my consideration in connection with issue No . 6 
are partly questions of law and partly questions of fact. The first question that I 
have to consider in this connection is whether a Police Patel functioning under the 
Bombay Village Police Act , 1867 , is a member of the Police Forces within the 
meaning of S . 123 ( 7 ) ( d ) of the Act ; secondly , whether a police patel acting as a 
polling agent at a polling station , which is situated within the area of his jurisdic 
tion can be said to further the election prospects of a candidate for whom he le 
acting as a polling agent and whether the candidate so appointing him as his 
polling agent can be said to obtain or procure the assistance of a Government 
servant within the categories set out in S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act for the purpose of the 
prospects of his own election ; and thirdly , whether there was any procuring or 
obtaining of the assistance of Punabhai Pratapsing, Police Patel of Chandpur, 
Kalubhai Haribhai, Police Patel of Parabia and Shanaji Punjaji Damor , Police 
Patel of Nava village , for the furtherance of the election prospects of the respon 
dent. 


It is clear that out of these three questions unless and until the first question is 
derided in favour of the petitioner , questions Nos. 2 and 3 are not required to be 
answered , if it is held that a Police Patel functioning under the provisions of the 
Bombay village Police Act of 1867 , is not a member of the Police Forces, other two 
questions regarding Issue No. 6 are not required to he answered at all and there 
fore. I will take up question No. 1 Arst . 


The words of S . 123 ( 7) (d ) of the Act are "members of the Police forces ; and 
it is useful in this connection to also refer to the provisions of cl. ( f ) of s . 123 ( 7 ) of 
the Act, which refers to revenue omcers other than yillage revenue officers known 
Als lambardars, malguzars , Patels, deshmukhs or by any other name, whose duty 
j: ) collect land revenue and who are remunerated by a share of, or commission 
on the amount of land revenue collected by them but who do not discharge any 
nolice functions. T may mention that by the Explanation to s . 123 , it has been 
provided that for the purposes of cl. ( 7 ) of s. 123 of the Act a person shall be de 
emed to assist in the furtherance of the prospects of a candidate s election 11 


Sec. 9 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2663 


he acts as an election agent of that candidate . Prior to the 
amendment by s . 53 of the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act , 1986, 
after the words " election agent" , the words " or a polling agent or a counting 
agent" were to be found in cl. ( 2 ), of Explanation to S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act ; but as 
a result of this amendment, the words " or a polling agent or a counting agent 
have been omlited . The result, therefore, is that prior to the amendment of 1966 , 
a person acting as a Polling Agent of a candidate was to be deemed to assist in 
the furtherance af the prospects of that candidate s election under s . 123 ( 7) of 
the Act; but after the amendment this deeming clause no longer applies to a 
polling agent. 


At this stage, it is necessary to set out a bit of Legislative history . So far as 
the Bombay Presidency was concerned , the first legal provision regarding police 
legislation in Bombay and Sind was Bombay Regulation No XII 
of 1827. It was a regulation for the establishment of a 
system of police throughout the zillas subordinate to Bombay for providing rules 
for its administration and for defining the duties and powers of al police autho 
ritles and servants. Bombay Regulation XII of 1827 , governed all police establish 
ments whether of village police or of police in districts or urban areas in any 
part of Zillas subordinate to the Presidency of Bombay. Thereafter the Central 
Legislature passed the police Act, being India Act V of 1861. Under S . 46 of that 
Act it was provided that Act was not to take effect by its own operation in any 
Presidency , state or place but the State Government by an order to be published 
in the official gazette should extend the whole or any part of that Act to any 
Presidency , State or place. No such Notification or order was issued by the Gov 
ernment or Bombay and India Act V of 1861 does not appear to have been brought 
into force in the Presidency of Bombay. However, in Bombay Presidency in 1867 
two enactments were paşsed ; one was the Bombay District Police Act being Bom 
bay Act No. 7 of 1867 ; and as pointed out by K . S . Gupte in his commentary on 
the Bombay District Police Act , at page 10 of 1942 Edition , this Act ( Bombay 
District police Act VII of 1867 ) was nothing more than an application of the Gov 
ernment of India Police Act ( V of 1861) to the Presidency with such modifications 
as the local circumstances required . In the very same year, the Bombay Legisla 
ture also passed Bombay village Panchayat Act ( Bom . Act VIII of 1867 ) ; and thus 
a distinction was made from 1887 onwards between village police and District 
Police . The Bombay District Police Act of 1867 was repealed and replaced by 
Bombay District Police Act (Bombay Act IV . of 1890 ) in 1902 , the City of Bombay 
Police Act 1902 was passed for the town and island of Bombay . Thereafter in 
1951, the Bombay Police Act , 1951, was enacted in order to consolidate and amend 
The law for the regulation of the Police Force in the State of Bombay . The pream 
ble to the Bombay Police Act , 1961 states that particular statute was being enacted 
in order to amalgamate the District Police Forces and Greater Bombay . Police 
Forces ; and after 1956 , the Police Forces of Saurashtra , Kutch , Hyderabad and 
Vidarbha Regions were to be common Forces and to introduce uniform methods 
regarding the working and control of the said Forces throughout the State and 
by the Bombay Police Act of 1951 the Bombay District Police Act, 1890 and the 
City of Bombay Police Act, 1902 - were repealed because Instead of the separate 
police forces governed by those two enactments, one common . police force which 
was to be governed by the Bombay Police Act, 1951, was proposed to be set up . 
By S . 3 of the Bombay Police Act 1951, A s adopted and applied to the State of 
Gujarat, it has been provided that there shall be one police force as a whole in the 
State of Gujarat, section 168 of the Bombay Police Act , 1951, provides as 
Follows: 
" Nothing in this Act Shall affect the provisions of the Bombay Village Police 

Act, 1867 . .. 
· or any enactment which may be made in regard to the reserve Police . 

Therefore though by S , 3 , provision is made that there shall be one Police Force 
for the whole of the State of, Gujarat , the operation of the provisions of Bombay 
Village Police Act, 1867, or any enactment which may be made in regard to the 
reserve Police has been saved by S . 16 of the Bombay Police Act 1951 . 


Mr. Nanavati. . on behalf of the respondent, has contended before me that when 
the Parliament used the words; " members of the Police forces" in S . 123 ( 7 ) ( d ) of 
the Act, it was using a well -known terms of legislative parlance ; and according to 
this contention , the words " police forces " in cl. ( d ) refer only to such forces as are 
set up by a special legislative enactment in that behalt by any competent legisla 
tive authority . He has rightly pointed out that both under the Government 
of India Act , 1935 and also under the Constitution , " Police " is a subject in the 


2664 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JENE X, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


AO 


Provincial List so far as Government of India Act, 1935 , was concerned , and in the 
State List so far as the Constitution is concerned ; and the contention to that unless 
& force has in fact been set up by a legislative enactment providing for the consti 
tution , organization and discipline of a police force , it cannot be said to be a police 
force for the purposes of cl, ( d ) of S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act . In this connection Mr. 
Nanavati has drawn my attention to the fact that by S . 2 of the Police Act, 1861 
( India Act V of 1861) , the entire police establishment under the State Government 
for the purposes of that Act is to be deemed one police force and is to be formally 
enrolled and consists of such number of officers and men and has to be constituted 
to such manner as shall from time to time be ordered by the State Government; 
nd under the definition S . 1 , the word " police " includes all persons who shall be 
inrolled under the Act V of 1861) . Under S . 4 of the Bombay District Police Act 
V90 , it was provided as follows : 
" In each district of the Presidency of Bombay to which this Aot extends , 

the Provincial Government may establish and entertain a Police force 
of such number in the several ranks and having such an organization 
and such duties , rights and authority as are hereinafter prescribed 

and provided for." 
In the Bombay Police Act, 1951 by S . 3 , as pointed out earlier , it has been provided 
that there shall be one police force for the whole of the State of Gujarat; and 
provision is made by S . 5 for the Constitution of that police force and there arc also 
provisions for organization and discipline of that police force under the Bombay 
Act, 1951. 

The Bombay Legislature also passed another Act called the Bombay State 
Reserve Police Force Act, 1961 (Bom . Act XXXVIII of 1951) and S . 3 of that Act 
provided that in addition to the Police Forces constituted under the Bombay 
Police Act, 1951, the State Government may establish and maintain an arthed 
reserve police force known as the State Reserve Police, Force ; and the State 
Reserve Police Force has to be established and maintained in such manner as 
may be prescribed . Under Bom , Act XXXVIII of 1961, provision is also made 
for the organization of the State Reserve Police Force into groups, division , bet 
talions and platoons. There is also provision made in this Act for the State 
Reserve Police Force regarding the appointment of officers and maintenance of 
discipline of this Reserve Police Force . 

Mr. Nanavati, on behalf of the respondent, has also drawn my attention to 
the fact that for the better protection and security of the railway properties, 
India Parliament has passed an Act called Railway Protection Act , 1957, which 
ig an Act to provide for the constitution and maintenance of a force called the 
Railway Protection Force ; and S . 3 of that Act provides that there shall be con 
stituted and maintained by the Central Government a force to be called the Rail 
way Protection Force for the better protection and security of the railway pro 
perties . It is clear that protection and security of property is one of the police 
functions and this Railway Protection Force has been set up under the provisions 
of the Railway protection Force Act, 1967, to discharge those police functions , so 
tar as railway property is concerned . In this case also by a legislative enactment 
a special force has been constituted and provision has been made for the organiza 
Hon and discipline of that special force under the Rallway Protection Force Act, 
1967. 


12th February , 1968 . 
On the basis of these different enactments, Mr. Nanavati urged before me that 
the words : " members of the police forces " are well - recognised in legislative 
parlance and, therefore, when the Legislature uses the words "members of the 
Police forces in S , 123 ( 7 ) (d ) of the Act, it must be deemed to refer to a police 
force constituted and organized by a special enactment of the Legislature which 
in terms constitutes such a police force and for which order and discipline are 
provided for by such a statute. He has contended that in the Bombay Village 
Police Act , 1867 , there are no words constituting a police force known as Bombay 
Village Police Force but it merely provides for discharge of certain duties by 
the Police Patels appointed under the Act. This , if one may say so , 18 a narrower 
Inter - pretation which is sought to be placed on the words "members of the police 
forces " . On the other hand , the wider interpretation which has been contended 
for by Mr. Daru , on behalf of the petitioner is that the Court should consider 
the aspect from the point of view of the duties which the Police Patels are 
called upon to discharge and also from the point of view of the functions which 
guch Police Patels perform . In my opinion , the wider view , which Mr. Daru 


SEC , 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA IS . 1990 


2665 


has contended for , should be placed upon the words: " members of the police 
forces" occuring in $ . 123 ( 7 ) ( d ) of the Act. In the frst place, the Legislature 
in enacting S . 123 ( 7 ) has taken care to see that officers of the Government, some 
of whom may be even in a low position like the Jawan serving in one of the 
armed forces of the Union should not be called upon to render assistance for 
furtherance of the prospects of any candidate s election and if such assistance 
has been obtained or procured contrary to the provisions of $ . 123 ( 7 ) , that it 
amounts to a corrupt practice . Clause ( f ) of S . 123 ( 7 ) also comes in aid for 
interpretation of cl. ( d ) . Under cl. ( f ) , assistance under the circumstances set 
out in the main body of S , 123 ( 7 ) of revenue officers is sought to be hit; but from 
this category of revenue officers village revenue officers known as lambardars, 
malguzars, patels, deshmukhs or by any other name, whose duty is to collect land 
revenue and who are remunerated by a share of, or commission on , the amount 
of land revenue collected by them , but who do not discharge any po ice func 
tons, are exempted . Therefore , the assistance rendered by those village revenue 
officers who are remunerated by a share or conmission on the amount of land 
revenue will not fall within the mischief of S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act . Even in res 
pect of such village revenue officers, who are remunerated by a share of or 
commission on the amount of land revenue , it has been provided by cl. ( f ) that 
I they discharge any police functions, then they are not exempted from the 
category of revenue officers and any assistance rendered by a village revenue 
officer who is remunerated by a share of, or commission on , the amount of land 
revenue, and who also discharges police functions, if other conditions of s , 123 
( 7 ) are satisfied will amount to a corrupt practice . It is , therefore , clear that 
the vitiating factor so far as S . 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) is concerned is the discharging of any 
police functions, but for that discharge of police function village revenue officers . 
who are remunerated by a share of, or commission on , the amount of land 
revenue collected by them , will not come within the category of revenuc officers 
whose assistance is sought to be hit by S . 123 ( 7 ) . It in the case of a village 
revenue omcer , whose assistance would otherwise be unobjectionable , discharg 
ing of any police functions by such yillage revenue officer becomes objectionable , 
then it is clear that it is the discharging of police functions which is the vitiat 
Ing factor . It would rather lead to startling results if the discharge of police 
functions by & village revenue officer , who is remunerated by a share of , or 
commission on , the amount ot land revenue collected by him , would be objection 
able if he also happens to discharge police functions ; but if a Police Patel who 
does not discharge any other revenue functions but discharges the same kind 
of duties as the village revenue officer referred to in cl ( f ) . so far as police 
functions are concerned would not fall within cl. ( d ) . A person who has been 
appointed a Police Patel simplt citer cannot fall within cl, ( f ) of $ . 123 ( 7 ) : but 
at the same time so far as the police functions are concerned , both a police Patel 
simpli citer and a village revenue Patel, who is remunerated by a share of, or 
commission on , the amount of land revenue collected by him and who also dis 
charges police functions. would be hit by S . 123 ( 7 ) ( i ) . Under these circum 
stances, my conclusion that the wider meaning should be placed on the phrase : 
" members of the police forces " , gets some support from this interpretation of 
S . 123 ( 7 ) ( 1 ) of the Act. 


I may also point out that the word forces occurring in S . 123 ( 7 ) ( ai, means 
any organized group of persons, according to the dictionary meaning. In the 
Shorter Oxford Dictionary , the word " force " in this sense means " A body of 
armed men , an army. In pl. the troops of soldiers composing fighting strength 
of a kingdom or of a commander. A body of police , the force -policemen collec 
tively " . According to Welster s New Twentieth Century Dictionary , Second Edi 
tion , the word " force " , when used as a noun means " any organized group of 
soldiers, sailors etc .; any group of people organized for some activity ; as, a sales 
force . The dictionary meaning also throws some light on the correct interpreta 
tion to be placed on the words: "members of the police forces " occurring in S . 123 
( 7 ) ( d ) of the Act. 

In view of the mischief which is sought to be preyented by S . 123 , 7 and in 
view of the provisions of S . 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) and also in view of the dictionary Meaning 
of the word " force." , the words : " members of the police forces , in my opinion 
apply to all persons who are discharging police functions and who are organized 
in a body as such , In view of this interpretation of s . 123 ( 7 ) ( d ) . I will now 
examine the provisions of the Bombay Village Police Act, 1867, in order to see 
whether a Police Patel functioning under that Act falls within the category of 
"members of police forces " as thus interpreted By S . 3 of that Act it has been 
provided that the administration of the village - police throughout each district 
shall, under the control and direction of the State Government be exercised by 


2666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


the Magistrate of the district , who may, with the sanction of the State Govern 
ment, delegate any portion thereof to any Magistrate with full powers having 
also revenue charge as an Assistant or Deputy Collector , Sub - section ( 1 ) of S . 5 
of that Act provides that the village -police in each village shall be under the 
charge of such person as the State Government shall appoint in writing to be 
Police Patel, and unless the State Government owing to the size of the village 
or other good cause , see fit to separate the appointments the State Government 
shall appoint the person discharging the duties of Revenue - patello be Police 
patel; and sub -section ( 2 ) of $ . 5 , provides for appointment of Police Patcls . 
Section 6 lays down that the Police Patel shall, subject to the orders of the 
Magistrate of the District , act under the orders of any other Executive Magistrate 
within whose local Jurisdiction his village is situated , whom he shall furnish 
with any returns or information called for, and keep constantly informed as to 
the state of crime and all matters concerned with the village - police , the health 
and general conditions of the community in his village. He shall also afford all 
Police Omcers every assistance in his power when called upon by thern for 
assistance in the performance of their duty. He shall further promptly obey and 
execute all orders and warrants issued to him by a Magistrate or Police Officer , 
shall collect and communicate to the Police Officer in charge of the District Police 
Station within the limits of which the village is situated , intelligence plecting 
the public peace , shall prevent within the limits of his village the commission 
offences and public nuisances, and shall detect and bring offenders therein to 
Justice. Under s . 8 , the Police Patel has to dispose of the village - establishment 
so as to afford the utmost possible security against robbery , breach of the peace 
and acts injurious to the public and to the village community, and shall report . 
to the Executive Magistrate to whose jurisdiction he is immediately suhordinate 
all Instances of misconduct or neglect committed by any member of the said 
establishment, Section 9 provides for penalties for neglect of duty by any Police 
Patel; and S . 10 provides that if a crime shall have been committed within the 
limits of the village, and the perpetrator of the crime has escaped or is nnt known 
the Police Patel shall forward immediate information to the Police Officer in 
charge of the District Police Station within the limits of which his village is 
situated , and shall himself proceed to investigate the matter , obtaining ull pro 
curable evidence relating to it which he shall forward to the said Officer . Under 
S . 11, the Police Patel has to hold an inquest in case of unnatural or sudden leath 
or a corpse found within his village, Section 12 provides that the police patel 
should apprehend the person , whom he believes , has committed serious offence 
and should forward such person to the Police Station within the limits of which 
his village is situated Section 13 provides that the Police Pate in making any 
inquiry coming within the scope of his duty shall have authority to call and 
examine witnesses, and record their statements, and to search for concealed arti 
cles , taking care that no search be made in a dwelling - house between sunset and 
sunrise without urgent occasion . He shall also have authority , in carrying out 
any search or any pursuit of supposed criminals , to enter and act within the 
limits of other villages, being bound however to give immediate information to 
the Police Patel thereof; and under $ . 19 , the Police Patel shall take charge of 
all unclaimed property found within his village, or made over to him under the 
provisions of the Bombay Police Act, 1951, and shall forthwith make a report to 
the Executive Magistrate to whom he is subordinate , and act thereafter as tre may 
be directed by the said Magistrate . unless the property be of a description 
coming within the provisions of the Cattle - trespass Act , 1871, or any law corres 
ponding to that Act in force , which case the Police Patel shall be guided by that 
enactment or law . 

This summary of the relevant provisions of the Bombay Village Police Act 
( VIII of 1867) , makes it clear that the Police Patel has the power to investigate 
to hold Invest to record evidence and statements and also the power to apprehend 
suspected oftenders . Under these circumstances , he discharges police functions 
when he functions as a Police Patel under the provisions of the Bombay Village 
Police Act , 1867. It is true that there is no section in this Act of 1867 coristitu 
ting a separate police force of village police Patels are members . It is also true 
that the provisions which are made in this Act for maintenance of the discipline 
amongst the village police are not as strict as are to be found , for example , under 
the Bombay Police Act , 1951, or under the Bombay special reserve pollce Act, 1951 
or under the Railway Protection Force Act, 1957 . Though the discipline may 
not be as strict as is to he found in the case of other police forces, there is a 
provision for the maintenance of the discipline of the village Po irr and merely 
on the ground that the discipline provided for under the Bombay Village Police 
Act, 1867, is not as strict as in the case of ordinary police or in the case of the 
State Reserye Police or in the Railway Protection Force , it does not mean that 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] 


THE G :\ZETTE OF INDIA : JUVE 8 . 1968 / JIYAISTUA 18 . 1890 


2667 


- - - 


the police Patels are any the less members of a police force . They are discharg -- 
ing police functions and are permitted within certain limits to investigate and to 
carry on the Inquiry and collect evidence and carry on Investigation , 

Under these circumstances , I have come to the conclusion that within the 
wider meaning to be attached to the words "members of the police forces " , a 
Police Patel appointed and functioning under the Bombay Village l olice Act, 
1887, is a member of the Police forces . 

That takes me to the next question which is to be considered in connection 
with S . 123 ( 7 ) ( d ) of the Act , viz ., whether a Police Patel functioning as a Polling 
Agent at a Polling Station within his own jurisdiction can be said to be render 
ing assistance for the furtherance of the election prospects , of any candidate. 

In this connection Mr. Raru , on behalf of the petitioner , drew my attention to 
the decision of the Supreme Court in Dr, Y , S . Parinar y . Hira Singh , A . I. R . 
1959 S . C . 244. It must be pointed out that at the time when the Supreme Court 
delivered that judgment, the statutory presumption under Explanation ( 2 ) to 
S .123 ( 7 ) was still there, with the result that if any person worked as the Polling 
Agent of a candidate , he was to be deemed to render assistance to further the 
prospects of the election of that candidate . In Dr. Y . S . Parmar s ( supra ) the 
Supreme Court has laid down that all that S . 123 requires is that assistance shall 
be procured for furthering the election , Where the explanation applies, if a 
candidate has appointed a person to act as his polling agent and ho accordingly 
does so act , a statutory presumption arises that the candidate thereby procured 
that person s assistance in furtherance of the prospects of his election , and this 
irrespective of whether he intended to procure such assistance or not. Therefore, 
in the case of the appointment of a polling agent which comes within the explana 
tion the intention of the candidate in procuring the assistance is irrelevant. 
Similarly the knowledge of the candidate whether the person , whose service as 
his polling agent he has procured , is a member of the Armed forces or any of 
the other specified class of Government servants or not, is equally irrelevant and 
the Supreme Court has further held that no question of mens red or intention 
or knowledge of the candidate would arise in such cases . It inust be borne in 
mind that after the amendment of 1966 , the deeming provision of Explanation ( 2 ) 
to S . 123 ( 7 ) does not apply in case of polling agents or counting agents ; and 
because of this statutory amendment, Mr. Daru , on behalf of the petitioner, has 
relied on two other previous decisions of the Supreme Court . It is true that 
what happened in Dr. Y . S . Parmar s case was that the candidatc concerned 
signed a very large number of the forms prescribed by the rules framed under 
the Act for appointing polling agents , in blank and without setting out therein 
the name of any polling agent. as he had not then been able to make up his 
mind in view of the large number of polling stations as to who would be his 
polling agents at the various polling stations and made over these forms to one 
Kalyan Singh , who passed on three of them to Kashmira Singh , having inserted 
therein the words " polling station No. 13 , Sheopur" . Kashmira Singh Ajled in 
the name of Amar Singh as the polling agent in one of these forms on 25th May , 
1957, the day of polling : and Amar Singh , happened to be a member of the Armed 
Forces of the Union ; and in para 10 at page 247, A , K . Sarkar J . ( as he then 
was ) , delivering the judgment of the Supreme Court observed : -- 

" It is true that neither the appellant nor Kalyan Singh , nor even Kashmira 
Singh knew at the date of the appointment of Amar Singh that he was a member 
of the armed forces but the point now raised by the learned Advocate -General is , 
in our view , none the loss unsustainable . It over - looks the provisions of the second 
explanation . . . . " 

The contention which was repelled in para 10 was that procuring or obtaining 
by a candidate of any assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of his election 
from a person in the service of the Government as a member of the armed forces , 
would not amount to a corrupt practice unless that candidate knew that the 
person was in such Government service. This decision in Dr , Y . S . Parmar s case 
would apply to the facts of the present case in so far as the respondent allowed 
a rubber - stamp impression of his signature to be put down on various forms 
for the appointment of polling agents and he allowed these loring to be taken 
away by the workers of the Swatantra Party so that the names of the different 
polling agents may be filled and the forms may be submitted to the appropriate 
Presidint Officers of the Polling Stations concerned ; but the similarity of the 
present case and Dr. Y . S . Parmar s case does not go beyond that point. 

In Satya Dev V . Padam Dev ., A .I.R . 1954 S. C . 587 , the Supremc Court dealt 
with the provisions of S . 123 ( 8 ) of the Act, which were equivalent to S . 123 ( 7 ) 


2668 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 [PART II.. 

- - - - - 
as it stands today. In that case , the Supreme Court held that mere appointment 
of a Government servant within any on the categories mentioned in that section 
as a polling agent did not per se contravene the provisions of S . 123 (8 ) as it then 
stood , and then proceeded to observe : - 

" Nor is there anything in the nature of the duties of a polling agent, which 
necessarily brings him within the prohibition inacted in that section , The duty 
of a polling agent is merely to identify the voter, and that could not by itselt 
and without more , be said to further the election prospects of the candidate . So 
long as the polling agent confines himself to his work as such agent of merely 
identifying the voters , it cannot be said that S . 123 ( 8 ) has , in any manner , been 
infringed. 

It is argued for the appellant that leaving aside ihe world of theories and 
entering into the realm of practical politics, the appointment ct a Government 
servant as polling agent by one of the candidates must result in the dice being 
loaded heavily against the other candidate and that a situation might be con 
ceived in which the presence of a Government servant of rank and importance 
as polling agent of one of the candidates might prove to be a source of unfair 
election practices. But if that is established and if it is made out that the candi 
date or his agent had abused the right to appoint a Government servant as pol ing 
agent by explaciting the situation for furthering his eluciion prospects , then the 
matter can be dealt with as an infringement of S . 123 ( 8 ) ." 

This principle was affirmed by the Supreme Court when it dealt with the 
review of the above judgment; and the decision on the review application is 
reported in A . I. R . 1955 S . C . 6 . At page 8 , in para 10 of the report, Venkatarama 
Ayyar J., delivering the judgment of the Court, has observed : - - 

" Accordingly , we reaffirm the view taken by us that the appointment of a 
Government servant as polling agent does not, without more , contravene Section 
123 ( 8 ) . It is scarcely necessary to repeat our observation in the original judg 
ment that " If it is made out that the candidate or his agent had abused the right 
to appoint a Government servant as polling agent by exp oiting the situation for 
furthering his election prospects , then the matter can be dealt with as an in 
fringement of Section 123 ( 8 ) ," 

I may point out that in the instant case there is no evidence to show that the 
first respondent or his election agent had abused the right to appoint a Govern 
ment servant as a polling agent by exploiting the situation for furthering his 
election prospects . It is true that each of these three Polling Agents , viz .. Puna 
bhai Pratapsing of Chandpur, Kalubhai Haribhai of Parabia and Shanaji Punjaji 
Damor of Nava Village, acted as a pol ing agent within the limits of his own 
jurisdiction as a Police Patel. But merely because he go acted , it cannot be said 
that something more which is required by the Supreme Court to bring the casc 
within the mischief of S . 123 ( 7 ) , is also supplied . That something more must 
mean some action on the part of the polling agent or on the part of the candidato 
himself which would go to show that the Police Patel s in question had done 
something more than merely acting as Po ling Agent. Under these circumstances , 
the argument advanced on behalf of the petitioner on the basis of these two 
decisions of the Supreme Court cannot help him to advance his case further . 

The last question that now remains to be considered is whether as a matter 
of fact. the respondent obtained or procured any assistance of any one of the 
three Police Patels for furtherance of his election prospects . It is clear that so 
far as the word " procures " is concerned in S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act, it indicates that 
there must be some positive action on the part of the candidate concerned before 
he can be said to procure assistance of any person ; but it is possible to argue that 
the word " obtains ” in S . 123 ( 7 ) means even the act of obtaining irrespective of 
any positive action on the part of the candidate or his election agent. In my 
opnion , the words ; " obtains" and " procures " occurring in S . 123 ( 7 ) mean one 
and the same thing viz ., any positive action on the part of the candidate concern 
ed in order to see that such assistance by any person in the prohibited categories 
was made available to him , 

A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Moti Lal v. Mangla Prasad , 
AIR . 1958 Allahabad 794 , has taken the same view as I am taking . At page 797 
in para 11 of the report , it has been pointed out by the Division Bench as fol 
lows: 

"We think that the word obtain in S . 123 ( 7 ) has been used in the sense of 
the meaning which connotes purpose or effort behind the action of the candi 

date . The word has not been used in the sub - section in the sense of a mere 
: passive receipt of assistance without the candidate being even conscious of the 


- 


. 


- 


S 


. - 


- 


$ rc . 3( 11 )1 THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA : JUNE X . 1968 / 1VAISTHA 18 . 1990) 2669 

SH 
fact that the assistance has been rendered . In order to bring the case under sub 
section ( 7 ) , it must be shown that the candidate did sobie effort or performed 
some purposeful act in order to get the assistance . 

The receipt of assistance must be the result of either purpose or effort , which 
implies that the getting of the assistance should be the result of some conscious 
action of the candidate and not a mere passive happening of his getting the 
assistance . It further appears to be unreasonable to inpute to the Legislature 
an intention that the election of a candidate should be declared to be void , even 
though the candidate had no knowledge even of the fact that some person in the 
setvice of Government had taken into his head to assist a particular candidate ." 

With respect, I agree with these observations made by the learned Judges of 
the Allahabad High Court . It is , therefore, clear that ttiere must be some posl 
tive action or effort or purposes on the part of the respondent. before holding that 
the assistance rendered by the Police Patels in question was procured or obtain 
ed at the instance of the respondent. 


Out of the three Police Patels in connection with whom allegations have been 
made in the petition , so far as Shanaji Punjaji Damor of village Nava is concern 
ed , he himself has not been examined as a witness in this case , but petitioner s 
witness No . 19 , Prabhashanker Shivram Upadhyay, has stated in his evidence that 
at the time of the last general elections, he himself was a polling agent of the 
Congress Party at the Polling Booth at Masadra. Masadra is situaled in Sabar 
kantha District but it was included in Godhra Parliamentary Constituency acrord 
ing to this witness Prabhashanker , the Polling Agent on behalf of the Swatantra 
Party at Mosadra Polling Booth was Shanaji Punjaji Damor of village Nava , 
According to Prabhashanker Nava Village and Andharivadi village were included 
in the area for which the polling booth was at Masadra . He had also deposed 
that he had seen Shanaji Punjaji Damor carrying on propaganda of the Swatan 
tra Party at village Nava. That was the only occasion when he had seen Shanaji 
Punjaji Damor carrying on election propaganda of the Swatantra Party . He had 
heard Shanaji telling the electors at Nava to cast their votes for the Swatantra 
Party candidates and to bear the symbol of " Star " in mind when exercising their 
franchism Anart from this evidencn of Prabhashanker there is nothino on the 
record of this case which would go to show that the respondent had obtained or 
procured the assistance of Shanaji Punjaji Bamor with a purpose or deliberate 
design to obtain the services of that Government servant for furthering his own 
election prospects . Under these circumstances, so far as Shanaji Punjaji Damor 
is concerned , it cannot be said that any assistance contrary to the provisions of 
S . 123 ( 7 ) of the Act was obtaincd by the respondent for furtherance of his elec 
tion prospects . 


Ag regards Punabhai Pratapsing Patel and Kalubhai Haribhai Patel, the peli 
tioner s case is that 9 or 10 days hefore the day of the poll, the respondent, Ramu 
bhal Bhatia , who was the Swatantra Party candidate from Salia Constituency for 
the Legislative Assembly sent and one Kunuhhai Talshi a Swatantra Party 
worker of Parabia village had gone to the House of Kalubhai Haribhai and 
Punabhai Pratapsing ; and that it was at the instance of the respondent that these 
two persons, Ka ubhai and Punabhai were appointed as Polling Agent. If one 
examine the evidence of Kanubhai Talshi, Petitioner s Witness No. 15, one Ands 
that tho170h in his examination - in - chief this witness Konubhai says that he had 
accompanie the respondent and Ramubhai Bhatia to the house of Police Patel 
Kalubhal Haribhai of Parabia and also to the house of Police Patel, Punabhai 
Pratapsing of Chandpur, at the instance of Ramubhai Bhatia and the respondent, 
in his cross - examination considerable material was brought out, which would go 
to show that this witness Kanubhai Talshi could not be relied upon ng a truthful 
witness , so far as this point was concerned . In his cross - examination it was elicit 
ed that an amdavit og sworn by him at the instance of the petitioner , Babula ! 
Gandhi: and thereafter Kanubhai had handed over the affidavit to the netitioner, 
The affidavit mas sworn hefore the Taluka Magistrate ; and then called upon to 
do so , the learner rounsel for the petitioner stated at the Bar that the affidavit 
was not with him in Court ; and subsequently that affidavit has not been forth 
coming . Thereafter , the Taluka Maeistrate , before whom the affidavit was suorn , 
was examined as a witness and certain documents on his record were produced 
and marked for identification . Subsequently , a cony of the affidavit . Which is 
also signert bv Kanubhai was shown to him and he agree that the statement 
" Y " . contained correct statements and thereafter that documeut " Y " As marked 
as Ex . No . 6 . Now , this witness Kanubhai in this statere,li Ex . 6 . which bears the 
date July 14 , 1967, now where mentions that the respondent had asked either 


2670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


Punabhai Pratapsing or Kalubhai Haribhai to carry on propaganda on behalf of 
the Swatantra Party ; and then he has stated in Ex , B as to what happened at the 
Polling Station at Morwa- Hadap . In Ex . 6 , Kanubhai has made no attempt to 
connect the respondent with the canvassing for the Swatantra Party by Kalubhai 
Haribhai and Punabhai Pratapsing . In view of the serious cuissions which have 
come out between his deposition in Court, and Ex . 6 , regarding the part which 
the respondent played in obtaining or procuring the assistance of the two Police 
Patels , his evidencc cannot be relied upon and , therefore, unless there is some 
other corrobotation forthcoming to his testimony , it would not be safe to rely 
on his word for holding that the respondent had procured or obtained the assis 
tance of the two Police Patel. 

Kalubhai Haribhai Petitioner s Witness No. 7, has aiso stated in his examina 
tion - in - chief that 9 or 10 days before the day of the poll, the respondent, Ramu 
bhai Bhatia and Kanubhai Talshi had come to his house and he has also stated 
that Ramubhai told him that he would have to work as carvasser for the Swatan 
tra Party candidate and he would also have to work as the polling agent for 
the Swatantra Party candidates. According to Kalubhai Haribhai , the respon 
gent and Kanubhai were both present when Ramubal Bhatia talked to him on 
these lines and after talking like this all the three of then left the village. This 
is the only part of his evidence by which Kalubhai Haribhai wants to depose lo 
obtaining or procuring of assistance of this particular Police Patel by the respon 
dent. Exhihit No . 7 is the statement, dated 14th July , 1967, it has been signed by 
Kalubhai Haribhai on July 14 , 1967, before the Taluka Magistrate . He admit s 
that apart from the portions underlined in blue pencil on the original document, 
the rest of the statements set out in Ex. No . 7 are are correct In Ex . No. 7 he 
bas stated that before the date on which the first respondent appointed him as his 
polling agent and even afterwards he had carried on election work on behalf of 
Ramubhai Bhatia and the respondent in the villages of Parabia , Morwa -Hadap 
and surrounding villages at the instance of Ramubhai Bhatia and the respondent. 
Now , Kanubhai Talshi, whose evidence on this point cannot be relied upon , has 
noc stated in Ex . 6 anything about the respondent asking Kalubhai Haribhai to 
carry on propaganda or election work on behalf of the Swatantra Party candi 
dates . Moreover , the very fact that Kalubhai Haribhai swore an affidavit at the 
instance of the petitioner on or about July , 14 , 1987, after the present Elcction 
Petition was Aled , creates a doubt about the veracity of that witness . It appears 
from the record of this case that on 14th and 15th July , 1967, k number of per 
erns were taken before the Taluka Magistrate at the instance of the petitioner 
and all of them were identified before the Taluka Magistrato by one Jugubhai 
Solanki, a Congress Party worker . Thus, after the present petition was filed and 
the written statement had been put in , an attempt was made by the petitioner 
to obtain these affidavit and to fix their versions with a view to see that in the 
triai of the present election petition , the evidence of those witnesses would be 
according to the sworn affidavits and thus to fix , so to say , the evidence of these 
witnesses in a particular pattern . The swearing of those affidavits does create 
a suspicion as to whether those witnesses are telling the truth when they come 
before the Court and say that they had carried on the propaganda at the instance 
of the respondent. Even if they had carried on such propaganda in their own 
villages or roundabout areas, So far as Kalubhai Haribhai and Punabhat Pratap 
sing are concerned , the cross - examination with reference to the contents of Exs . 7 
al. ci 8 respectively goes to show that neither of them is a reliable witness . Exp. 7 
and 8 are word to word the same and each of the winesses has stated that it 
was through omission on the part of the scribe or the petitionei -writer at the 
Taluka Magistrate s office, who wrote out these andavits. that it was not nen 
tioned that 9 or 10 days before the date of the election Rambubhai Bhatia and 
the respondent had come to the house of Kalubhai Haribhai and Punabhai Protan 
sine . In my opinion , it would be extremely hazardous to rely on thr testimony 
of Kalubhal or Punabhai for the purpose of holding that the respondent chtain 
ed or procured the assistance of either of these two Police Patcls for the further 
anon of prospects of his clection . The petitioner has not been able to lead any 
rellable evidence on this point and the evidence that has been in fact lcd or the 
point is not free from suspicion and is not trustworthy . 


Under these circumstances . I hold that the petitioner has failed to establish 
that the respondent obtained or procured the assistance of talubhai Fioribhai or : 
Shanaji Punjaji Damor for the furtherance of his election prospects . The fact 
that these threr persons were Police Patels is not disputed , the 
fact that each of them acted as a polling agent of the respondent 
is again not disputed : but what is disputed is that the respondent obtain 
ed or procured the assistance of these three individuals in the sense of any 


Sec . 3( ii)] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTIIA 18. 1890 


2671 


positive action on the part of the respondent, which would lead to such assistance 
being received from any one of these three Police Patels . Reliable evidence on 
that crucial aspect of the matter is lacking and , therefore, the petitioner s case 
on this aspect of the matter must fail and it must be held that it cannot be said 
that the respondent procured or obained the assistance of any of the threc Police 
Patels , viz ., Kalubhai Haribhai of Parabia , Punabhai Pratapsing of Chandpur and 
Shanaji Punjaji Danor of Village Nava , for the furtherance of his own clectic . 
prospects . This issue must , therefore , be decided agaiſist the petitioner , 


I, therefore, answer the issues as follows: 
Issue No. 

Finding. 

Not pressed . 
2 . In the negative as to first part ; second part does not arise . 
3 . Not pressed 
4 . Not preaged . 
3 . In the negative as to First part second part does not arise , 
8 . In the negative as to all its parts . 
7. In the negalive as to Arst part (in view of my judgment in Elec., Pet. 

No 24 , 1967 , decided on October 23 , 1967 ) , 
8 . Not pressed . 

9 . In the negative. 
The result, therefore, is that this petition falls and is dismisser). The peti 
tii:ner to pay the custs of the respondent. Advocate s fees Axed at Rs. 1, 400 
( Rupees One Thousand Nine Hundred ) . 

By the order of the Court. 
Sd . / - M , A , SYED , 

29 - 2 - 1968 . . 
Deputy Registrar (I ) 
This 29th day oj FebrwiV . 1968 . 

[No. 82 / 25 / 87. ] 
$ . 0 , 1958 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) , the Election 
Commission hereby directs that the following amendments shall be inade in its 
notification No. 434 / PB / 66 , dated the 7th December , 1966, namely : 

In column 3 of the Table appended to the said notification the existing 

entry at serial No. 5 against item " 1. Fazilka " shall be deleted and the 
entry at serial No. 6 shall be renumbered as 5 . 

[ No . 434 /PB /86,1 

By Order, 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Sęcy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 195 In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 113 
of the Defence of India Rules, 1982 , the Central Governinent hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Home Affairs G . Ş . R . 519 , dated the 22nd March , 1983. relating to the 
appointment of a Compensation Tribunal for the State of Orissa , namely : 

In the said notification , for item 1 and the entries relating thercio , the follow 
ing shall be substituted , namely : 
" . Shri Barajakanta Mishra , Additional District Magistrale ( Judicial) 
Cuttack , and " . 

[NO. F . 43 / 34 / 67-P . 11.I(B ).] 

N . VITTAL . Under Secy . 


2672. 


THE GAZETTE. OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II . 


- 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi , the 4th Mal/ 1968 
S . O . 1960. In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
of section 79 of tne Punjab Reorganisation Act , 1966 ( 31 of 1966) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri J. S . Jain , Chief Engineer , Government c ! 
Haryana as Member , Bhakra Management Board , vice Shri B . R Palta , with 
effect from the date Shri J . Ş . Jain assumes charge of the post and makes the 
following anendment in the Notification oť the Government of India in the 

Ministry of Irrigation and Power No. S. O . 3506 dated the 1st October, 1967 , 
hanelv : - - 
In the said notification , against item 2 , for the entry Shri B . R . Palta , now 

working as General Manager , Bhakra Dam , Nangal Township , the 
(entry. Shri J . S . Jain. Chief Engineer , Government of Haryana 
shall be substituted. 

[ No. 6 / 4 / 66- B & B. ] 
M . PRASAD. Under Secy . . 


सिवाई व बिजली मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 9 मई , 1968 


एक प्रो0 1361 . - पंजाब पुनर्गठन अधिनियम 1966 ( 1966 का 31 वां ) की धारा 
79, उपधारा ( ) और ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों की परिपालना में केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद् द्वारा हरियाणा सरकार के मुख्य अधियंता, श्री जे० एस० जैन को श्री बी० आर० पल्टा 
के पद स्थान पर भाखड़ा प्रबन्धक बोर्ड के सदस्य के रूप में उस तिथि से जिस तिथि से 
के पद का कार्यभार संभालेंगे , नियुक्त करती है और सिंचाई व बिजली मन्त्रालय , भारत सरकार 
की अधिसूचना संख्या एस० प्रो . 3506, दिनांक । अक्तूबर , 1967 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
करती है, : ---- 

उपर्युक्त अधिसूचना में मद संख्या 2 के अन्तर्गत लिखे आलेख श्री बी० आर० 

पल्टा , ( इस समय महा प्रबन्धक , भाखड़ा बांध , नंगल टाऊनशिप , के रूप में 
काम कर रहे हैं ) को बदल कर श्री जे० एस० जैन , मुख्य अभियंता , 
हरियाणा सरकार लिख दिया जाये । 


[ सं० 6/ 4/ 66– बी० एण्ड बी०] 

एम० प्रसाद , 
, प्रवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employmont) 

New Delhi, the 24th May 1968 


S . O . 1962 . - -In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
(14 of 1947 ) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Trlbunal No. 2 , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Digwadih Collery of Mesor8 . Tata Iron ind Steel 
Company Limited , Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad and their 
workmen. which was received by the Central Government on the 21st May , 1988 . 


SEC. $( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2673 


. 


. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947. 

Reference No . 90 of 1967 . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron and 

Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office Jealgora , District 
Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their Workmeni . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao . - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers. — Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 
For the Workmen . - Shri Pritish Chanda , President, Tata Collleries Workers 

Union . 
State : Bihar 

Industry : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated 16th May , 1988 . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron 
and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office Jealgora , District Dharbad 
and their workmen by its order No . 2 / 122 / 65-LRII dated 1st Decenzber , 1965 
referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 
10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in 
respect of the matter specified in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is 
extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
“ Whether the management of the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron 

and Steel Company Limited was justified in dismissing Shri Krishna 
Bandhu , Trolleyman ( T . No. 33675 ) from its service with eilect from 

the 16th June, 1965 ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the 
reference as reference No . 197 of 1965 on its Ale . Workmen Aled their statement 
of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal by the Central 
Government by its order No. 8 / 25 / 67- LRII dated 8th May 1967 under Section 
33B ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. Consequently , the reference is 
renumbered on the Ale of this Tribunal as reference No. 90 of 1967. Employers 
Aled their statement of demands as well as rejoinder . 

3 . It is not in dispute that Shri Krishna Bandhu , Trolleyman ( T . No. 33675 ) 
(hereinafter referred to as the affected workman for the sake of conyenience ) 
was an employee of the employers colllery . It is also admitted that he was 
served with a charge - sheet alleging misconduct viz . riotous and indecent behaviour 
in terms of Clause 19 ( 5 ) of the Certified Standing Orders, a domestic enquiry 
was made against him in which he was found guilty and in consequence thereof 
he was dismissed from service. The case of the workmen is that the dismissal 
of the affected workman was an act of victimisation , that when the affected 
workman demanded his due bus, steamer and railway fare, the Senior Welfare 
Omcer unnecessarily came into temper , flared up and abused the affected workman 
in bad language and turned him out of office , that on the report of the affected 
workman the management did not take any action and instead brought a false 
charge against him , that no guilty was proved against the affected workman in 
the show of enquiry made against him , that the Anding of the Enquiry Officer 
was pervera and that the dismissal of the affected workman was uncalled for 
and unjust. The employers took the stand that they had conducted proper 
were represented by Shri Pritish Chanda , President, Tata Collieries Works 
enquiry and dismissed the affected workman for the misconduct. The workinen 


2674 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAIŞTHA 18, 1890 


[PART II 


Union and the employers by Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate . On 14th February , 
1968 , as no one was present on behalf of the workmen , the case proceeded against 
them in accordance with Rule 22 of the Industrial Disputes ( Central ) Rules, 1957, 
the employers examined a witness and marked Ext. Mi to M15 and arguments 
were heard and the award was reserved . On 16th February , 1968 the workmen 
submited an application to reopen the case and give them an opportunity to lead 
their evidenc ? Arguments were heard in respect of the application and the 
application was allowed on 11th March , 1988 although the employers challenged 
the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to consider the application relying upon the 
decision of the Calcutta High Court in Gungaram Tea Company, Ltd ., V8. Second 
Labour Court and another ( 1967- II -LLJ 325 ) . On behalf of the workmen a 
witness was examined and Ext. W1 wag marked . 

4 . Exts . Mi to M15 are proved by MW1, the Assistant Chief Personnel and 
Welfare Officer . These exts . are concerned with the charge -sheet and domestic 
enquiry held against the affected workman . These documents are not seriously 
denied by the workmen . There is no rebuttal evidence to contradict them . It is 
an admitted case that the domestic enquiry was held against the affected workman . 
Ext . M1, the charge- sheet clearly states that the affected workman had committed 
misconduct viz . riotous and indecent behaviour in terms of Clause 19 (5 ) of the 
Certified Standing Orders . The facts in it were that on 4th May, 1966 at 8 . 30 am . 
the affected workman entered the office of the Senior Welfare Omcer and started 
shouting as to why the affected workman was being paid less return railway 
fare and that inspite of the Senior Welfare Officer explaining to him that his 
claim was not correct , the affected workman flared up and started shouting and 
threatening him with dire consequences. In the reply submitted to the charge 
sheet the affected workman did not deny that he had been to the office of the 
Senior Welfare Officer , but put a different version of the occurrence. According 
to him it was the Senior Welfare Officer himself that used bad language against 
the affected workman for demanding proper and due return fare . The ailected 
workman is examined as WW1. He did not deny the domestic enquiry held 
against him or that he was given a fair chance to cross examine the management s 
witnesses and lead his defence . During the enquiry the affected workman sub 
mitted an application to the Enquiry Omcery to read and explain to him the 
statements recorded in English . : The Enquiry Officer allowed the request and 
directed Shri B . N . Ghatak to explain the depositions to the aitected workman . 
There is endorsement by Shri B . N . Ghatak on the depositions that they were 
explained by him to the affected workman in Bengalt. The witness were cross 
examined also by the affected workman . The statement of the affected workman 
was also recorded . The affected workman examined Ave witnesses in his defence. 
Ext. M10 is the report of the enquiry which shows that the Enquiry Officer had 
discussed the evidence at length and ultimately found the affected workman 
guilty of the charge levelled against him . On this the Manager submitted the 
note, Ext. M11 recommending dismissal of the affected workman . Ext. M12 is the 
order of the ACME & Agent dismissing the affected workman with effect from 
16th June, 1965. The order shows that the ACME & Agent had gone through 
the charge - sheet and its connected papers and satisfied himself that the charge 
levelled against the affected workman had been satisfactorily proved . Ext. M13 
is the dismissal letter dated 10th June, 1965 under the signature of the ACME 
stating that the affected workman was dismissed from the service of the employers 
with effect from 16th June , 1965. This evidence is neither denied nor rebutted . 
On this material I do not find any flaw in the domestic enquiry . I And that the 
affected workman was glven a falr chance to participate in the enquiry and 
defending himself. From the report of enquiry , Ext. M10 and the evidence 
recorded during the domestic enquiry I find no substance in the contention that 
the findings arrived at by the Enquiry Officer were perverse . Shri Pritish Chanda , 
the learned representative of the workmen has argued that the demand of the 
return railway , bus and steamer fare by the affected workman was justified . But 
that point had no bearing on the enquiry before the Enquiry Officer . The only 
matter before him wag whether the affected workman was guilty of riotous and 
indecent behaviour as was alleged in the charge - sheet, Ext, M1. It is then con 
tended that immediately after the occurrence the affected workman had submitted 
an application to the Manager complaining against the Senior Welfare Officer and 
that the Manager did not hold any enquiry in the matter . But Ext. M16 is a 
reply sent to the affected workman by the Chief Mining Engineer stating that to 
enquire into the allegations made by him in his applications dated 4th May , 1965 
and 31st May, 1965 , Chief Personnel & Welfare Officer had visited the colliery on 
17th May , 1965 and despite prior information given to him , the affected workman 
did not turn up and that the enquiry was conducted in his absence and the con 
clusion was arrived at that in order to avoid the consequences of his misbehaviour 


SEC. 3( il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


267 


with the Senior Welfare Officer , the affected workman had taken recourse to the 
complaint. The affected workman has not denied the letter nor did he lend any 
rebuttal evidence . The burden of the statement filed on behalf of the workmen 
is that the dismissal of the affected workman was nothing but victimisation owing 
to the rivalry between the Tata Collieries Workers Union and the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh , the affected workman being an office bearer and Assistant Secretary of 
the former. But in his deposition as AW1, the affected workman has comeforth 
with a new case altogether . He deposed that on 10th April, 1965 while he was 
collecting subscription for his union the Senior Welfare Officer himself and his 
chaprasis prevented him from doing so and called in police, etc . But no whisper 
of this case was made at any time before , either before this Tribunal or the 
Enquiry Oficer . Obviously , this case cannot be relied upon to any extent. On 
this material I And ample justification for the employers in dismissing the affected 
workman . 

5 . I, therefore, hold that the management of the Digwadih Collery of M / s . Tata 
Iron & Steel Company Limited was justified in dismissing the affected workman , 
Shri Krishna Bandhu , Trolleyman ( T . No. 33675 ) from its service with effect from 
the 16th June , 1965 and , consequently , he is not entitled to any relief. The award 
Is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

$ d . / - N . VENKATA RAO, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) at Dhanbad . 


HAFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 90 OF 1967 
Employers in relation to the Digwadih Collicry of M /s. T . I, S . Co . . . . . . 


Vs. 


Their workmen 

. . . . . . . . . workmon , 
List of Documents admitted in evidence for employers 


Distinguish 
ing mark or 

number 


Description of documents 

and date 


Remarks 


Date of Whether Proved 
admission admitted by 

by congent 
or on proof 


3 


4 


Ext, MI 


on proof MWI 


Ex . M2 


Ext. M3 


Original charge shect No . 160 dt. 14 - 2 -68 

5 /6 - 5 -65 issued to Shri Krishna 
Bandhu and the cxplanarion of 
Sri Krishna Bandhu dt. 8 - 5 - 65 

( Two pagcs ). 
Original letter No, Dig /15B -65 / 

2257 dt, 12th / 17th May , 67 of 
the Manager , Digwadih Coll 
icry to the Chief Personnel 

and Welfare Oficer. 
Signed copy of letter No. Dig / 15B 

2432 dated 26 / 27 - 5 -65 addresacd 
to Sri Krishna Bandhu (that is 

notice of enquiry ) 
Original application of Krishna Do , 

Bandhu dt . 28 - 5 -67 addressed 

to Enquiry Officer 
Original enquiry proceedings in 
. 35 Pages 
Boat gevrice Ticket 
Bus service Ticket 


Exi, M4 


Ex !. MS 


Ex :, M6 
Ext. My 


2676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[l art II 


3 


4 


5 


6 


EXT. M8 


Ext. M9 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Ext.Mro 


Do. 


Ext. Mit 


Do . 


Do . 


Ext.M12 


Do. 
Do. 


Do 


Do. 
Do . 


Ext.M13 


Application for return Rly . fare 14 - 2 - 68 on proof MWI 

gubmitted by Sri Krishna Bandhu 
Application dt. 31 - 5 -65 from Sri 

Krishna Bandhu 
Finding of the Enquiry officer dt. Do, 

Do. 
5 -6 -65 in 7 pages 
Note of Manager dated 7 - 6 - 65 Do . 

giving his recommendation 
Note of the Asstt. C . M , F., and Do, Do. 

Agent Jamadoba group 
Dismissal letter of Sri Krishna Do. Do . 

Bandhu No. AJO /BI/ 1324 /65 dt. 

10 - 6 -65. 
Letter No. JMB /472 /03931 dated Do, Do . 

31- 3 -61 by which c . I, M . was in 
formed that the Asstt. C . M . E . 
Jamgloba Group was also Agent 
for the collieries in the group 

under the Mines act, 
Signed copy of C . M . B s letter Do. Do . Do . 

No. JMB/475 /06504 dt. 17 / 19th 
May 1965 addressed to Sri Krishna 
Bandhu in reply to his applica 
tion dated 4th May, 1965 


Do, 


Ext, M14 


De 


Do. 


Do . 


Ext. MIS 


List of Documents admitted in evidence for workmen 


Distinguishing 
mark or num 

bor 


Remarks 


Description of Document 

and date 


Proved 

by 


Date of Whether 
admission admitted 

by con 
gent or on 

proof 


Ex . WI 


11 - 3 - 68 By consent 


Application of Sri Krighna Bandhu 

dt. 4 - 5 -65 addregsed to the 
Chief Mining Engineer 


Sa . N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer . 


APPENDIX II 
B3FORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 90 OF 1967 
Employ :rg in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of M /s. TISCO 

Vs. 
Their Workmen 

. . . . . . . .workmen 


List of witness examined for the employers 


No. of witness 


Name of witness 


Date of examination 


MWI 


S . N . Singh 


14 - 2 -68 


SEC . 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2677 


List of witness examined for the entkmon 


No , of witness 


Date of cxamination 


Name of witness 
Krishna Bandhu 


WI 


II- 3 -67 


Sd . ) - N . VENKATA RAO, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Governinent Induştrial Tribunal (No. 2 .) 

Dhanbad , 
[No. 2 / 122 / 85 - LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 25th May 1987 
S . O . 1963. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following Award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1 ), Dhanbad in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Kamptee Collery of MegS8 Oriential 
Coal Company Limited , Post Omice Kamptee and their workmen , which was receiv 
ed by the Central Government on the 18th May, 1988 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

LABOUR COURT (No. 1 ), DHANBAD . 
In the matter of an application under Section 33 ( 2) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 

Application No. 60 of 1960 

AND 

Reference No. 11 of 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Kamptee Colllery of M / s . Oriental Coal Company 
Limited , P . O . Kamptee, Distt. Nagpur - -- Applicant. 

Vå. 
Shri Kameshwar Viswakarma, S / o . Dharamdeo Viswakarma, Temp. Addre... 

Kamptee Colliery , P . O . Kamptee, Dist . Nagpur - Opp . Party No. 1. 
Maharashtra Pradesh Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Kamgar Sangh .---Opp . Party 

No . 2 . 
Kamptee Koyla Khadan Kamgar Sangh . — Opp. Party No. 3 . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Kumla Sahai . - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Applicant. — None. 

For the Opp . Party .-- None. 
STATE : Maharashtra . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated , the 10th April 1968 

ORDER 


The employers in relation to Kamptee Colllery of M / s . Oriental Coal Co. Ltd ., 
P . O . Kamptee , Dist. Nagpur (Maharashtra ) Aled an application under Seculon 33 ( 2 ) , 
( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (herein after referred to as the Act) for 
approval of dismissal of Shri Kameshwar Viswakarma on account of the pendency 
of reference No . 23 of 1963 . That application was rejected on the ground that Shri 
Viswakarma had not been made a party . The employers have since filled the pre 
sent application under the same provision for approval of the dismissal. It has 
heen stated in paragraph 9 of the application that it has been Aled because a 
reference bearing No . 23 of 1963 between the applicant and its workmen of the 
colliery is pending before this Tribunal. 

The application was placed before me at Nagpur on the 27th December , 1967) 
It was Shri Bobde who was then appearing on behalf of the employers who brought 


2678 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[ Part II-- 


to my notice the fact that, while this application was pending before me, the 
Central Government had , by Its Order No. 5 / 20 / 66 -LRII, dated the 8th November , 
1966 , made a reference to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Bombay 
in which the question raised was whether the dismissal of Kameshwar Vishwa 
karma was justified . In view of this fact, Shri Bobde and Shri Khambhare who 
Appeared on behalf of the workman requested me to adjourn the hearing of the 
application so that both matters might be placed before one and the same Tribunal 
for simultaneous disposal. 


The Government of India has since then transferred the reference vide Order 
No. 5 / 20 / 66 -LRII dated the 3rd February, 1968 which was numbered as reference 
No. 53 of 1966 in the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Bombay to this 
Tribunal. The Government has further directed that the proceeding will continue 
from the stage at which it has been transferred . The reference has been numbr 
ed here as reference No. 11 of 1968. 


It seems that the parties have entered into a compromise and the entire dispute 
between them has been settled . The employers are the applicant. Shri Kaneshwar 
Vishwakarma is opposite party No. 1 , Maharashtra Pradesh Rashtriya Khadan 
Kamgar Sangh Is opposite party . No. 2 and Kamptee Koyala Khadan Kamgar 
Sangh is opposite Party 3 . Opposite party No. 1 has fleld an application pray 
Ing that in view of the settlement between the parties he does not wish to contest 
the employers application and his dismissal may be approved . Opposite party 
No . 3 has filed a separate application in which prayer has been made that the ap 
plication of the employers for approval of the Tribunal to the dismissal of opposita 
party No. I may be granted and dismissal approved . Opposite Party 
NO . 3 has further Aled an application in which prayer has been made that, 
In view of the settlement between the parties , the Tribunal may give an award to 
the reference in line and in terms of the settlement with these three applications, 
the agreement between the parties and the terms of settlement arrived at bet 
ween them have also been Aled . The substance of the compromise in that the 
management has paid in presence of the Asstt . Labour Commissioner , Nagpur a sum 
of Rs. 1, 800 / - as an ex - gratia payment to the workman , Shri Kameshwar Vishwa 
karma and he, on the other hand , has agreed that his dismissal should stand . 

I have no doubt that the compromise is genuine . It is also fair , The Asstt . 
Labour Commissioner, Nagpur has made an endorsement at the foot of the petition 
that money was paid before him . 

wb 
In the circumstances mentioned above , I dispose of the reference according to 
the compromise, which will form part of the award . Let it be submitted to the 
Govt . of India . 

The application is also disposed of in this way that the dismissal of Kameshwar 
Vishwakarma by the management of the Colliery is approved , in accordance wit .. 
the compromise between the parties . 

(Sa.) KAMLA SAMAI, 

Presiding Oncer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Trlbunal-Cum - Labour 

Court, No. 1, Dhanbad . 


" Memorandum of Settlement" 


PARTIES : 


Employers In relation to Kamptee 
Colllary represented by 
pregent Shri R . S . Grewal, 
Manager, Kamptee Colliery. 


Workman of Kemptec Colllery represented by 
Kamptee Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh (HMS ) 
through its — progent- Shrt W . D . Sugdco , 

President, 
Shri Kemeshwar Viswakarma, 
Secretary in his official capacity . 


" Short Recital of the Case " 
Shri Kameshwar Viswakarma General Mazdoor in Electrical Department was 
dismissed by the management vide their letter No . KCM / 26 / 271 / 66 dated 16th 
March 1986 and an application under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the I. D . Act was preferred 
before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad for approval of the 


SEC. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


2679 


action . The same application is pending before the Trlbunal under Reference No. 
" Application No . 60 of 1966" , Thereafter , the union party to this Agreement had 
raised the dispute over dismissal of the workman before the Conciliation Officer 
[ Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Nagpur and his Alę reference ALCN / 10 
( 16 ) / 18 dated 30th March 1966 ]. As the conciliation had falled and hence on re 
ceipt of the failure of conciliation report the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment had referred this Industrial Dispute to the Central Goy 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Bombay vide their file No. 5 / 20 / 16 -LRII dated 18th 
November, 1966 . The same has been transferred to the Central Government In 
dustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad on the request of the parties vide order No . 3 / 20 / 16 
LRII dated 3rd February , 1968 by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour 
and Employment, New Delhi, 

In short the facts of the case are that an application under Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the 
I. D . Act is pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 
for approval of the action and a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) of the I. D . Act which 
was originally referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay and 
later on transferred and is pending on Ales of the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad. Now the Union i. e . Kamptee Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh 
(HMSO ) has again raised the dispute with the management. The matter was dis 
cussed at length . The Union stressed and impressed upon the management that 
Shri Kameshwar Viswakarma s family situation back home (U . P .) is very dis 
turbed . Some letters were produced by Union in course of discussion to testify 
their point. Management was requested to reconsider the whole issue and take a 
compassionate and human view . In the Interest of peace in Industry and cordial 
relation in face of worker s genuine dimcult situation the dispute wag settled on 
following terms and conditions 

Terms of Settlement 
( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything in this agreement the parties agree that the 

dismissal of the workman Shri Kameshwar Viswakarma will stand as 

It is. 
( 2 ) The management agrees to pay the workman Shri Kameshwar Viswa 

karma an amount of Rs. 1800 / - (Rupees One thousand eight hundred 
only ) as an ex gratia payment and the same will be done in the office 
of the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central). Nagpur in the pre 

sence of Asstt. Labour Commissioner or Labour Enforcement Officer 
( 3 the workman and Union agree that they will separately send a refoinder 

to the Dhanbad Tribunal requesting the Tribunal that the action of 
management under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) may kindly be approved in view 
of this settlement and / or on hearing request the Tribunal on sanie 

lines. A copy of this settlement will also be sent to the said Tribunal. 
(4 ) In view of the settlement the Union agrees that it will send a refoinder 

requesting the Tribunal to give an Award in terms of this settlement 
in the matter of reference under Section 1071) and / or on hearing re 
ouest the Tribunal on same lines. A copy of this settlement will be 

sent alongwith . 
(5 ) The parties agree to get this agreement registered under the relevant 

provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 at proper forum . 
8 . The parties agree that this would be in full and final settlement of the dispute 

The parties are aware that this agreement and finding it to thir interest sign 
it in token of their consent- free consent, under the seal of their office . 
Kamptee Colllery . 
Dated , the 12th day of March, 1968 . 
Workman s representative . 

Management s representative. 
Sd . / - K . VISWAKARMA 
12 - 3 -1968 . Sd . / - W . D . SAGDEO , 

$ d ./ - R , S . GREWAL , 
Secretary. President, 

Manager: 
Kamptee Koyla Khadan 

Kamptee Colliery . 
Kamgar Sangh R . No . 3989 

(Hind Mazdoor Sangh ), 
Witnesses : 

Pald before me. 
(Sd . ) S . S . MISHRA 

Sd / - .. ... . . . . 
(Sd. ) I. R NAIK 

Assistant Labour 
Commissioner, Nagpur. 
[No. F . 5 / 20 / 16 -LRII. ) 


2680 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890) 


[TAKT II 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 1964 , ...In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the East Ghanoodih Colliery of Messrs East Ghanoodth Colliery 
Company ( Private ) Limited , Post Offce Jharla , District Dhanbad and their work 
men , which was received by the Central Government on the 22nd May , 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM 

LABOUR COURT (NO . 1) , DHANBAD . 
In the matter of a reference Under Section 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 55 of 1967. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the East Ghanqodih Colllery of _ Messrs Er 

Ghanoodih Colllery Company (Private ) Limited , P . O . Jharia , 
District Dhanbad . 

And 
Thelr Workmen . 
PREBENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahal.- Presiding Omcer. 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers. — Shri B . P . Dabral, Chief Personnel Oficer of the 

Company . 
For the Workmen . - Shri B . K . Lath , Advocate. 
STATE : Blhar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 15th May , 1968 . 

AWARD 
The Government of India has, by its Order No. 2 / 124 / 67-LRII, dated 18th 
November, 1967, referred this industrial dispute for adjudication to this Tribunal. 
The schedule attached to the reference is as follows:- - 

SCHEDULE 
: " Whether the management of the East Ghanoodſh Collery of Messrs East 

Ghanoodih Colliery Company (Private ) Limited , Post Office Jharla 
(Dhanbad ) was justified in not allowing employment to Sarvashri 
Adhin Singh and Gangadhar Singh , Mine Loaders with effect from 
the 14th June, 1967 ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 


2 . Both the parties have agreed that the name of the Colliery does not begin 
with " EAST" but it is simply Ghanoodih Colliery , East Section . The description 
given by the parties in agreement with each other may be assumed to be correct. 


3 . The workmen , Shri Adhin Singh and Shri Gangadhar Singh represented by 
the General Secretary , Krantikari Koyala Mazdoor Sangh , Aled a written statement 
on 30th December , 1967. They stated therein that the workmen were pennanent 
employers of the Collery and had put in a number of years of service, that the 
workmen were arbitrarily stopped from their duties on 14th June, 1967 without 
any Charge- Sheet and without assigning any reason and that the workmen have 
been victimized for their Union activities . 


4 . The employers Aled a written statement on 17th January, 1968 when they 
had not yet received the written statement Aled on behalf of the Union . In that 
written statement, they stated that the Reference was misconceived and bad in 
law , that the workmen concerned had no locus standi to raise the dispute in - as 
much as they were not workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act on the date 
of the dispute , that Gangadhar Singh was appointed on 30th January, 1967 as a 
Machine Loader on a permanent substantive post as a probationer but he absented 
himself with effect from 13th June, 1967 before the expiry of his probationary 
period and hence he was treated as having abandoned his service and that Adhin 


SEC. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2681 


Singh was appointed on 3rd February , 1967 as a Machine Loader on a permanent 
substantive post as a probationer but he started absenting himself with effect 
froin 30th May , 1967 and hence he was also treated as having abandoned his 
service . 

5 . In another written statement Alled by the employers on 30th January, 1968 , 
they stated that they have never been aware of the Union activities of the workmen 
and that there is , therefore , no question of their being victimized for such activities. 

6 . At the hearing , the parties have Aled some documents and they have also 
examined some witnesses. 


7 . The employers having admitted that Gangadhar Singh was appointed on 
permanent substantive post with effect from 30th January , 1967 and Adhin Singh 
was appointed on permanent substantive post with effect from 3rd February , 1967, 
the first question which arises for consideration is whether the appointment of 
the two workmen was on probation for a particular period . The letters of 
appointment of the workmen have not been produced nor have the office copies 
of those letters been produced . Shri Vikramaditya Jha ( M . W . 2 ) has produced 
a Register of employees (Ext. M2). The name of Gangadhar Singh appears in 
this Register . The witness has stated that Ext. M - 2 ( a ) is the thumb impression 
of Gangadhar Singh , but that fact is disputed . Besides, the Register does not 
bear the signature of the Manager or the Assistant Manager on any page. Shri 
B . K . Lath , who has appeared on behalf of the workmen , has pointed out that, 
under Clause 41 ( 6 ) of the Coal Mines Regulations, 1957, the Manager has to 
examine all registers among other records which are to be kept under the Act 
and has to countersign the signature on the Register though he may delegate this 
duty by an order in writing to an undermanager . Apart from the defect of 
absence of the signature of the manager or undermanager , the alleged thumb 
impression [ Ext. M - 2 ( a ) ] is so faint and undercipherable that it cannot be accepted 
as a genuine thumb- impression of Gangadhar Singh . In any case , there is 
nothing in this Register to show that Gangadhar Singh was appointed on prcbu 
tlon . No other document has been Aled to prove that either Gangadhar Singh 
or Adhin Singh was appointed on probation . M . W . 2 has said nothing on this 
point. Shri $ . V . Krishnamurty , ( M . W . 1 ) has been working as the Manager of 
Ghanoodih Colliery , East Section , from June, 1963 . He says that appointment 
is made in his Colliery is the first instance on a temporary, badll or probation 
basis , but he has not ascerted that either Gangadhar Singh or Adhin Singh was 
appointed on probation . I am , therefore , unable to hold that either of those 
workmen was on probation on or about the date on which each of them is alleged 
to have abandoned or been stopped from service . 

8 . Shri Gangadhar Singh has examined himself as W . W . 1 . He has stated 
that he has been working in the colliery from 1964 but previously he was on a 
temporary basis . It may be that, as shown by the register Ext. M - 2 , he was put 
on a permanent basis from 30th January, 1967. In that case also , he could not 
be put on probation at that stage. 

9 . Admittedly , no charge was framed and no enquiry was held against the 
workmen in question . The question for consideration which , therefore , arises at 
this stage is whether a workman can cease to be in service simply because he 
absents himself from his duties without any further action being taken by the 
employers. In other words, can a workman be simply ignored or can he bę 
deemed to have been thrown out of service unceremoniously because he absents 
himself for a day or two ? Shri Krishnamurty - - M . W . 1 - says that when a 
workman starts absenting himself regularly , the Register -Keeper makes a note 
that he is no longer in service . This is a curious procedure . A workman cannot 
be deemed to have abandoned service simply because of his absence for a day 
or two. Realising this situation , M . W . 1 added that the Register -Keeper makes 
enquiry from the Manager whether the workman is or is not in service and then 
the Manager gives him the correct position , 

10 . The Manager ( M . W . 1 ) says that the Arst news which he got about the 
grievancc of Gangadhar Singh was from the communication ( Ext. M - 3 ) Irom the 
AL. C . ( C ). This is dated 29th August , 1987 . Had the services of the workmen 
in question becn terminated with effect from 14th June, 1967 because of their 
voluntary absence , surely he must have learnt about it before 29th August, 1967. 
I, therefore, hold that the workmen did not voluntary absent themselves from 
service . 

11 . This may be considered from another aspect Clause 13 of the Company s 
Standing Orders ( Ext. M - 1 ) provides that if an employee remains absent without 


2682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[PART II 


properly approved leave he will render himself liable for disciplinary action . If 
the two workmen in question had made themselves llable for such disciplinary 
action , charge should have been framed against them , enquiry should have been 
made and formal orders of termination of service should have been passed against 
them . The Manager - M . W . 1 - has stated that he did not issue a notice to 
Gangadhar Singh or Adhin Singh terminating their service on the ground of 
abandonment of services by them and that , so far as he remembers , no charge 
sheet was issued to them . 

12. In the circumstances mentioned above, I accept the workmen s case that 
the management stopped them from their work from 14th June, 1967. 

13 . Shri Dabral, who has appeared on behalf of the employers, has argued 
that the counterfoil receipt - Ext . W . 1418 not genuine and that the workmen 
liave not proved that they are members of the Union known as Krantikari Koyala 
Mazdoor Sangh , much less that the Management of the Company knew of their 
activities as members of that Union . It is unnecessary to consider this argument 
because, as I have already held , the management stopped them from working and 
this the management was not entitled to do. 

14 . In view of what I have said above, I am clearly of the opinion that the 
management of the Colliery Company in question was not justified in not allowing 
employment to Sarvashri Adhin Singh and Gangadhar Singh , Machine Loaders, 
with effect from 14th June, 1967. They are , therefore , entitled to be re -instated 
as Machine Loaders with effect from 14th June, 1967 with their back wages and 
continuity of service. 

15 . This is my award . Let it be submitted to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 

Sd . / - KAMLA SAĦAL, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal-cum -Labour 

Court, No. 1 , Dhanbad . 

[ No . 2 / 124 /67-LRII. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th May 1968 
S . O . 1965 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Gopalichuck Colliery of 
Messrs Central Kirkend Coal Coinpany Llinited , Post Omce Kusunda , District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -Bection 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of West Gopalichuck Colllery of 

Messrs Central Kirkend Coal Company Limited , Post Omce Kusunda, 
District Dhanbad in refusing employment to Shri Mukhtar Ahmed , 
Lathemạn / Latheman helper with effect from the 22nd May 1987 was 
Justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

(No. 2 / 63 / 68 - LRII. ) 


S . O . 1966 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lukurka Colllery Post 
Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specifed in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


SEC. (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2683 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Lakurka Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh , Dis 

trict Dhanbad of Messrs The Lakurka Coal Company Limited was 
justifled in stopping Shrt Lachhu Gope , Onsetter , from work with 
effect from the 8th August , 1967 on medical grounds ? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entited ? 

[No. 2 / 60 /68-LRII. ) 


S . O . 1961. - - Whereas the Central Government is oſ opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Jitpur and Chasnala Collerles . 
Post Office Patherdih (Dhanbad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hcreto annexed ; . 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad , constituted under Section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Cementation Company Limited , 

having its establishments at Noonudih -Jeetpur and Chasnala Collieries 
of Indian Iron and Steel Compnny, in retrenching its workman Shri 
Udai Singh , Watchman , when there were others junior to him in his 
category , was justified ? If not, to what relief is the Workman on 
titled ? 


[No. 2 / 5 / 88 -LRII.) 


S . O . 1968 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Burrakar Coal Company 
Limited , of Messrs Bird and Company (Private ) Limited , Post Omce Sijua , District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Gore 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 
Dhanbad , constituted under Section 7Ā of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Burrakar Coal Company Limited , of which 

Messrs Bird and Company (Private ) Limited , Post Omce Sijua , District 
Dhanbad are the Managing Agents , was justifed in refusing employ 
ment to Shri Hariram Mahato , alias Haria Mahato , Car Cleaner from 
the 5th May, 1967, to the 19th May , 1967, and dismissing him from 
service with effect from the 24th July , 19677 If not, to what relief is 
the workman entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 54 / 68-LRII. ) 


BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


2684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1390 


[Pars II 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 24th May 1968 
S . O . 1969.- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dispules Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the folowing award of the 
Central Governmtnt Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Hindustan Construction 
Company , Post Office Pamba , District Kottayam and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 21st May , 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY . 

Reference No . CGIT -69 of 1965 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relaion to Messrs. Hindustan 

Sabarigiri Project . 


Construction 


Company Ltd ., 


AND 


Their Workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri A . T . Zambre, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers . — Shri K . V . R . Shenol of Messrs . Menon and Pa . 

Advocates and Shri B . Narayanaswamy, Advocate . 
For the Workmen .- - No appearance. 
STATE : Kerala 

INDUSTRY : Stone Quarrying. 
Dated 25th April , 1968 

AWARD 


The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment have by 
their order No . 36 / 33 / 65 -LRI dated 20th November , 1966 referred to this tribunal 
for adjudication the industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation 
to the stone quarry of Meysrs . Hindustan Construction Company, Pattanamthitta , 
District Quilon and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
following schedule : 

SCHEDULE 
" ( 1 ) Whether the workmen employed in the stone quarry at Pattanamthit , 

District Quilon of Messrs . Hindustan Construction Company Limited 

are entitled for bonus for the years 1962 - 1963 and 1963 - 1964 ? 
(2 ) If so, to what extent ?" 
2 . The employers — the Hindustan Construction Company Ltd . , were engaged 
in the work of construction of a dam and a tunnel at Sabarigiri. In connection 
with the dam work there was an adjacent stone quarry in which the employer 
company had engaged about 388 workmen . The construction of the dam started 
In the year 1962 and was continuing . It was expected to be completed in the 
year 1966 . The workmen employed by the company including the stone quarry 
workers had through the Secretary of the Sabarigiri Project Construction Em . 
ployees Union sent a charter of demands about bonus, onam advance , dearness 
allowance , issue of service cards etc ., and the matter was also represented to the 
Corciliation Offlcer. Negotiations were held and there was a settlement regarding 
almost all the demands including the bonus dispute. By the settlement the 
management agreed to pay bonus to all the workmen including the employees 
engaged in the stone quarry equivalent to ten days wages per year in full and 
Anal settlement of the claim . But subsequently the union again raised the same 
question about bonus for the years 1962 -63 and 1963 -64 in relation to the quarry 
workers and it has been referred to this tribunal. 

3 . The employers have by their written statement contended that in respect 
of the present dispute conciliation proceedings were held before the Deputy Labour 
Officer and Conciliation Officer , Pattanamthitta who was camping at Kakki in the 
presence of the representatives of the employers and the workmen and pursuant 
to the discussion that took place at that conciliation meeting a settlement was 


vu 


Src , 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTUA 18 , 1890 


2685 


arrived at. As per the settlement with reference to the demand for honus for 
the years 1962 -63 and 1963 -64 it was agreed that all the workmen should be paid 
honus equivalent to 10 days wages ( consolidated ) per year in respect of the said 
two years in full and final settlement of the claim of the workers for bonus. 
Pursuant to the said settlement the company even paid the agreed bonus to all 
its workmen both in the dam , tunnel work and stone quarry and all the workers 
without any exception have received the payment of this agreed bonus. They 
have contended that thus the demand for bonus in respect of the years 1962 -63 
And 1963 - 64 have been fully and finally settled as per the settlement dated 16th 
June, 1965. The workers were also paid the agreed amounts and they are not 
entitled to any aditional amount of bonus for the said two years. 


4 . After the receipt of the reference notices were issued to the General 
Secretary , Sabarigiri Project Construction Employees Union P . O . R . Perunad , 
District Kottayam , Kerala dated 4th December, 1985 , 20th December , 1965 , 29th 
January , 1966 , 26th February, 1966 , 3rd March , 1986, 23rd March , 1967 and 14th 
February , 1968. These notices were received by the General Secretary of the 
Sabarigiri Project Construction Employees Union but he has neither put in any 
appearance nor Aled any statement of claim , Once by his application dated 15th 
June, 1966 the General Secretary of the Union had requested for extension of 
time to Alle the statement of claim on behalf of the workers and though time was 
granted no written statement of claim has been Aled so far. The office had also 
forwarded to the Secretary of the Union a copy of the written statement of the 
company along with the letter dated 29th March , 1966 . The same has been 
received by the Secretary of the union but he has not taken any steps to Alę any 
statement of claim . 


5 . Notice of the hearing of this dispute in this sitting of the Tribunal at 
Ernakulam has been duly received by the General Secretary of the Union but he 
has remained absent. It is clear from the record of the conciliation proceedings 
that the workmen were represented by the Sabarigiri Project Construction 
Employees Union P . O . R . Perunad , District Qullon , Kerala before the Conciliation 
Officer The order of reference shows that the General Secretary , Sabarigiri 
Project Construction Employees Union , P . O . R . Perunad , District Kottayam . 
Kerala represented the workmen concerned in this reference about the demand 
for bonus for the two years in question and the notices were issued to the General 
Secretary of the Sabarigiri Project Construction Employees Union to the address 
mentioned in the order of reference . It is also clear from the record that the 
notices issued from the office of the Tribunal have been received by the union and 
althouogh the notice of hearing on 4th March , 1968 has been duly received by the 
General Secretary of the union he has remained absent. In spite of the notice dated 
8th April, 1968 and the hearing dated 22nd April, 1968 the union did not appear nor 
did it put forth any written statement and considering the conduct of the Union in 
not appearing and taking part it appears that they are not interested in the proceed 
ings of the reference and hence the matter is heard e.c -parte . 


6 . The employers have by their written statement contended that the dispute 
regarding the demand for bonus for the years 1962 -63 and 1963 -64 between 
themselves and the workmen including the stone quarry labourers has been 
settled during the conciliation proceedings. It was agreed by them to pay to all 
the workmen bonus equivalent to 10 days wages per year in respect of the said 
two years in full and final settlement of the claim . Along with the written 
statement they have produced a copy of the memorandum of settlement dated 
16th June, 1965 which purports to have been arrived at during the conciliation 
proceedings before the Conciliation Officer, Pattanamthitta camp Kakki, In the 
terms of settlement the very first item is regarding bonus which states :- - 


" 1 . Bonus, — It is agreed that all workmen shall be paid bonus equivalent 

to 10 days wages per year in full and Anal settlement of the claim 
of the workers for bonus." 


The employers in their written statement have stated that according to these terms 
of settlement they have made payments of the agreed amounts of bonus to the 
workers including the stone quarry workers . The union has not Aled any written 
statement and there is no reason to disbelieve the company s contention in the 
absence of any denial on the part of the workmen . It is clear from the copy of 
the settlement that the dispute has been settled and it appears that because of 
this settlement the workers are not interested and do not want to take part in 
the present proceedings . 


2686 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAJSTHA 18 , 1890 


[l art II -- 


7 . As per the provisions of Rule 20 of the Industrial Disputes (Central Rules , 
1957, in cases where the workmen who are members of any trade union or associa 
tion are parties to the dispute the service of notice on the Secretary or on the 
principal officer of the union or association shall be deemed to be service on such 
persons. The Secretary has not remained present and has not shown any cause 
for his failure to file any written statement or attend the proceedings. Rule 22 
of the Industrial Disputes ( Central) Rules, 1957, enables the authority to hear 
proceedings ex parte . It says : - - 
" If without sufficient cause being shown , any party to proceedings before 

a Board , Court, Labour Court Tribunal, National Tribunal or 
Arbitrator fails to attend or to be represented the Board , Court, Labour 
Court, Tribunal, National Tribunal or Arbitrator may proceed as ir 

the party had duly attended or had been represented ." 
8 . The learned Counsel for the employers has contended that the reference 
pertains to the demand of bonus for the years 1962 -63 and 1963-64 . Their Lord 
ships of the Supreme Court have struck down the provisions of section 33 of the 
Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 which had enabled the workers to obtain bonus for 
the two years before the introduction of the act under the Act and as the workmen 
know full well that they will not be entitled to claim any bonus for the two years 
and hence they have remained absent. Shri Narayanaswamy the learned 
Advocate on behalf of the management has further argued that as there was a 
settlement arrived at between the parties before this reference the management 
has already paid the bonus to the workmen involved in this dispute . They have 
taken advantage of the settlement and they are not now entitled to claim anything 
further. It has been further argued that in spite of the several notices issued to 
the union they have not put forth any statement of claim which clearly showed 
that the workmen were satisfied with the bonus recelved by then under the 
agreement and they are not entitled to claim anything for the same years . 

9 . I have already referred to the various notices issued to the union regardiag 
the hearing of this reference but the unioh has not appcared and has not Aled 
any statement and it appears that due to the settlement of the dispute pfore the 
Conciliation Officer the union and workmen are now satisfied and do not want to 
proceed with this demand . The copy of the memorandum of settlement belween 
the parties which has been produced by the employers along with their written 
statement supports the management that the parties had agreed to the payment of 
bonus equivalent to ten days wages per year in full and Anal settlement of the 
claim and it appears that after receiving the amount of 10 days wages as bonus 
the union again reiterated the same demand before the Conciliation Officer and I 
do not think that the same demand will now be justified. The copy of the settle 
ment shows that the settlement had taken place before the Conciliation Officer . 
It is signed both by the management and the representatives of the workers. It 
is also signed by the Conciliation Officer and there appears no reason why the same 
should not be accepted . In spite of the several notices the union has not remained 
present. Clearly the workmen are satisfied with the settlement and now they have no 
claim of any kind for the bonus for the two years 1962 -63 and 1963- 64 . It is also 
clear that the provisions of section 33 of the Payment of Bonus Act have been 
struck down by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the case of Jalan 
Trading Co. Ltd ., V . Mill Mazdoor Sabha reported in 1966 II LLJ 546 . The 
workmen are not entitled to claim bonus for the two years under the Payment of 
Bonus Act and hence also the union has not taken part in the proceedings . The 
workmen employed in the stone quarry are not entitled to bonus for the two years 
1962 -63 and 1963 - 64 and hence my award accordingly . 
No order as to costs . 

Sd . ) - A . T . ZAMBRE, 

Presiding Oncer . 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal , Bombay . 

[No. 36 / 33 / 63 -LRI.] 
New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 1970 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 ot the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby congtitutes Labour 
Court No. 2 with headquarters at Bombay for the adjudication of industrial 
disputes relating to any matter specified in the Second Schedule to the said Act 
and for performing such other functions as may be assigned to it under the seid 
Act , and appoints Shri N . K . Vani as the presiding officer of that Court with 
effect from the 23rd May, 1968 , 

[No. F . 1 / 31 / 68 -LR - II. ] 


Suc. 8( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


2687 


S . O . 1971 ,- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes 
Industrial Tribunal No. 2 with headquarters at Bombay and appoints Shri N . K . 
Vani as the presiding officer of that Tribunal with effect from the 23rd May , 1968. 

[No. F . 1 / 31 / 68 -LRI-II. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th May 1968 
S . O . 1972, - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dlspute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
апде :xed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
ispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub -sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal No. 2 , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Central Bank of India Limited was justi 

fed in discharging from service Sri S . N . Sarkar , Outward Bill Clerk 
of the Sitamarhi Branch of the Bank with effect from 30th Novem 
ber , 19597 If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[NO 23 / 12 / 68 / LRIII. ] 


New Delhi, the 29th May 1968 
8 . 0 . 1978 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Dalmia 
Dadri Cement Limited , Charkhi Dadrl and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specifed in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A , and 
clausę ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 , of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
with Shri J. D . Pawar , as the Presiding Omcer , with Headquarters at Chandigarh , 
and refers the bald dispute for adjudication to the sald Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
( a ) Whether the discharge of the following workmen with effect from the 

3rd January, 1968 , was justified : 
1 . Shri Kundan s / o Dolet. 
2 . Shri Sheo Naraian s / o Ram Dial. 
3 . Shri Bansi Singh s / o Lekh Ram . 
4 . Shn Gopi s / 0 . Bhola 
5 . Shri Lachman s / o Ladhu . 
6 . Shri Bhagwana s / o Jalu . 
7 . Shri Sarupa s / o Gopi. 
8 . Shri Pohkar s / o Ganpat. 
9 . Shri Chuna 8 / 0 Dola . 
JU . Shri Bhagwana s / o Sho Ram . 
11. Shri Mantu Ram s / o Chotu . 
12 . Shri Parthi s / o Sis Ram . 
10 . ohri Amar Singh 8 / 0 Mangal. 
14 . Shri Mange Ram s / o Parbhati. 
10 . Shri Umed Singh s / o Siri Chand . 
10 . Shri Mai Lal s / o Gag Ram . 
17. Shri Tara Chand s / o Richpal, 
18 . Shri Palu Ram s / o Puran . 
19 . Shri Dhanpat s / o Moji. 
20 . Shri Pani Ram s / o Moji . 


2688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8. 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[PART II - 


- 


- 


- 


NNN 


21. Shri Mantu Ram s / o Gopal. 

22. Shri Mula Ram so Gopal. 
23. Shri Hardwari s / o Bhut Ram . 
24 . Shri Banwari: 8 / 0 Mala Ram . 
25. Shri Ganga Ram s / o Mahtab . 
26 . Shri Om Parkash s / o Niadar. 
27 . Shri Ram Chander s / o Kharu . 
28 . Shri Subh Ram s / o Ganesi, 
29 . Shri Mam Ram 9 / 0 Kurda . 
30. Shri Daria s / o Mantu Ram . 
31. Shri Sis Ram so Sobhat . 
32. Shri Mange Ram s / o Sohan . 
33. Shri Mula Rami s / o Bhana . 
34. Shri Balu sio Mota . 
35 . Shri Nanda s / o Kalu . 
36 . Shri Ram Chander s / o Nand Lal, 
37 . Shri Sube Şingh s / o Nand Lal. 
38. Shri Om Parkash s / o Nand Lal, 

39 . Shri Daya Chand s / o Nand Lal. 
(b ) If not, to what rellef are the workmen entitled ? 

[No. F . 38 / 8 / 67-LRI. ] 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
S . O . 1974 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
Limited , Parliament Street , New Delhi, and their workmen in respect of the 
inatters specifed in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
d ! sputo for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal , Delhi constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Central Bank of India 

Limited , in not allowing Shri R . C . Das Aggarwal, clerk , Chandni 
Chowk Branch to work as special Assistant in leave vacancles on 
temporary basis was justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman 
entitled ? 

[No. 23 / 27 / 68 -LR .III. ] 


New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
S . O . 1978 - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to the National 
and Grindlays Bank Limited , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the sald dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal , 
Clacutta constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
1. Whether there is any allocable surplus under the Payment of Bonus Act, 

1965 in respect of the Banks accounting year, 1966 and if so, what 

is the amount of guch allocable surplus ? 
2 . Whether any amount is to be carried forward for being set on under 

section 15 of the said Act in the accounting year 1968 , and if so , what 

Is the amount? 
3 . What percentage of the salary is payable as bonus to employees by the 

Bank in respect of accounting year , 1966 , under the said Act ? 


Src , 8 (ii)] 


TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTIIA 18 . 1890 


2689 


4 . Whether any amount is to be carried forward for being set on under sec 

tion 15 of the said Act in thc accounting year 1987, and if so , what is 

the amount? 
5. To what reliefs , if any, the Bank or the workmen are entitled ? 

( No . 23 / 28 / 68 -LRIII . I 


New Delhi, the 3rd June 1968 
S . Q . 1976 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bhilai 
Steel Plant, Bhilai and their workmen at Dalli - Rajhara Mines in respect of the 
mutters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the action of the management of Bhilai Steel Plant in relation 

to their Dalli - Rajhara Mines in dismissing Sarvashri K . D . Mishra , 
Indal, Nazarulla and Hidyat , Male Mazdoors with effect from the 

24th May , 1965 is justifled ? 
(ii ) If not , to what relief are the workmen cntitled ? 

[No. 37 / 47/65 -LRI. ] 
S . O , 1977. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of M / s . Oil 
India Limited , Duliajan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Chok Bahadur Rana Registered Number 

9 / 2238 , Darwan (Security ) with effect from 26th November , 1966 by 
the management of M / s . Oil India Limited was justified ? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled ? ” 

[No. 25 / 13 / 67 -LRI.] 
V . P . TALWAR , Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 1978 , - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal Bombay , in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in rela 
tion to Messrs Darragh Smail and Company ( India ) Limited , Cochin and their work 
men which was received by the Central Government on 21st May 1988. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY . 

Reference No. CGIT -21 of 1966. 
PATIES : 
Employers in relation to Messrs. Darragh Small and Company ( India ) Ltd ., 

Cochin - 3 . 
Their workmen . 

AND 
PRESENT ; 

Shri A . T . Zambre, Presiding Officer. 


2690 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[Part II-- 


APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers.-- Shri V . Desikan Advocate of Messrs. Menon & Pai , 

Advocates, Ernakulam . 
For the Workmen . - Shri T . C . N . Menon , Advocate . 
STATE : - - Kerala 

INDUSTAY : - Major Ports and Docks, 


Dated the 22nd April 1988 . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 28 ( 36 ) / 66 -LRIV dated 17th March 1966 the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment has referred to this Tribunal the 
industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Messrs . Darragh Smail and 
Company ( India ) Ltd ., Cochin - 3 and their workmen in respect of the matters spe 
cified in the following schedule 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the steamer tally clerks employed by M / s . Darragh Smail & Com 

pany ( India ) Ltd ., Cochin - 3 , are entitled for payment of bonus under 
the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965 for the accounting year ending on 31st 
March 1965 . If so , to what extent and to what other relief , if any, 

are they entitled ? " , 
2 . The management has by Its written statement opposed the claim and has 
contended that the steamer tally clerks were never the employees of the company . 
There was ny employer - employee relationship between them and they are not entit 
led to any bonus. They have denied that the working results of the company will 
enable bonus to be paid at 20 per cent and have contended that at any rate it 
should be considered on the basis of the accounts of the company which would 
be produced at the appropriate time. 

3. No statement of claim has been Alled on behalf of the workmen in this refer 
ence . 

4 . The reference was made to this Tribunal on 17th March 1966 and after the 
issue of notices and the Aling of statements the matter was adjourned from time 
to time. Ultimately in this sitting of the Tribunal at Ernakulam the parties nego 
tiated the dispute and settled it amicably and Aled a joint memorandum of setile 
ment under which the management has agreed to pay to the tally clerks bonus for 
the year ending on 31st March 1965 . The joint memorandum of settlement has 
been produced by the parties at annexure A . It is clear from the terms of settle 
ment that the tally clerks are to get bonus at the rate at which It was paid by the 

company to the head load labourers employed at Willingdon Island . The terms are 
reasonable and hence I pass an award in terms of the joint memorandum of settle 
ment annexure A which shall from part of this award . 

No order as to costs. 


Sd / - A . T . ZAMORE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial, 

Tribunal, Bombay. 


ANNEXURE A 

COPY 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. CGIT 21 or 1968 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to Darragh Small & Co., (India ) Limited , Cochin 

AND 
Their Workmen . 

Joint Memorandum of Settlement Filed by the Parties to the Dispute. 
The parties have reached settlement In Reference CGIT 15 and 21 of 1966 ( the 
issue referred being the same in both the references ) on the following terms and it 


SEO. 3 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2691 


is prayed that this Hon ble Tribunal may be pleased to accept the same and pass 
an award accordingly . 

1. The Tally Clerks in question will be paid bonus for the year ended 31st 
March 1965 at the rate at which it was paid to the headload labour employed by 
the Company on Willingdon Island . 

2. This settlement is entered into without prejudice to the contentions of the 
parties. 
Dated this the 24th day of March 1968 . 

For Darragh Snail & Co . ( India ) Ltd . 
Sd / 

Sd / 
Advocate for the management. 

Manager . 

For Cochin Dock Tally Clerks Association . 
Sd / 

Sd / 
Advocate for the union . 

Presented on 22 -4 - 1968 . 

sd / - T . C . N . MÆNON , 

Advocate for Union , 
[ No . 28 / 36 / 66-LRIV . ] 


S . O . 1979. — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal Bombay in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in 
relation to Shri N . P . Nayak , Customs House Agent, Cochin and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on 21st May 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL BOMBAY . 

REFERENCE No. CGIT 16 OF 1965 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Shri N , P , Nayak , Customs House Agent, Cochin . 

AND 
Their Workmen : 
PRESENT : 

Shri A . T . Zambre , Presiding Officer 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers : Shri P . K . Sukumaran , Advocate . 

For the workmen : -- Shri T . C . N . Menon , Advocate. 
STATE : Kerala 

INDUSTRY : Major Ports and Docks. 
Dated the 25th April 1968 

AWARD 
By Order No. 28 / 135 / 64 -LRIV datod 6th February 1965 the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment have referred to this tribunal 
the Industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to Shri N . P . 
Nayak , Customs House Agent, Cochin 2 and their workmen in respect of the 
inatters specified in the following schedule : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of Shri N , P , Nayak , Customs House Agent, Cochin 2 

in refusing employment to Shri B . L . Mallja , as Tally Clerk with 
effect from 23rd November 1964 is justifled ? If not to what reliet is 

the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The Steamer Tally Clerks Union which represents the workman Shri B . L . 
Mallia has by its statement to claim alleged that Shri Mallla was in the employ 
of Shri N . P . Nayak , Customs House Agent and was working regularly as a tally 
clerk for the last several years . As the management delayed payment of wages , 
Shri Mallia had to file a suit against the management for the delayed wages . This 
suit S . C . 268 of 1960 was compromised . 


2691 


TUIE CAZETTE OF INDIA : JOVE 8, 1968 / J.YASTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART 1 


- 


- - 


- 


! " . - 


. 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - 


The union has alleged that though the suit was settld the management was 
waiting for an opportunity to victimise Shri Mallia and in the year 1964 they again 
began to cut his wages and delay the payments . Shri Mallia raised a complaint 
about it. However the inanagement in retaliation stoppal employing him from 
23rd November 1964 without assigning any reason . Hence Shri Mallia who was 
a member of the union approached the union who raised a dispute . It has beeii 
further alleged that Shri Mallia has been rcfused employment from 23rd November 
1964 and from that date till 29th March 1965 he would have been able to carn 
wages amounting to Rs. 282- 40 . Hence the union has prayed for a direction or 
his re- cirployment and claimed wages amounting to Rs. 282 :40 . 

3 . The company by its written statement has denied the claim of the workman 
and has contended that Shri Mallia was not employed in the seryice of the manage 
nient as such ant there was no employer - cmployec relationship between them . 
There was no industrial dispute within thic mcaning of the Industrial Disputes Act 
and Shri Mallia was not entitled to claini anything from ihem . They have ad 
mittcut that the services of Shri Mallia were utilised by them for the purpose of 
some tally but have contended that on cach of such occasions he was acting 
as an independent person . He used to submit his bills in respect of each such 
occasion and as cach separate tally work was a separate and independent piece of 
work at thc worst there was only an engagement of Shri Mallla by the manage 
ment on 21 contractual basis for finishing each item of work and the contractual 
relationship ceasca immediately the work was donc. This did not constitute Shri 
Mailla an employee of the management and there was no relationship of cinployer 
and conployee . I was not entitled to claim any loss of wages from the company. 

2 . After the receipt of this reference on 2nd March 1965 and the statements of 
the parties the matter was adjourned for hearing from time to time. But during 
this sitting of the Tribunal at Ernakulam the parties negotiated the dispute and 
have settled it amicably . They have filed a compromise petition at annexure A , 
According to the terms of the compromise the management has agreed to pay a 
sum of Rs. 200 to Shri Mallia in full and final payment of all the bills submitted 
by him and the claim for compensation made in this reference . The union by its 
statement of clalm hac demanded Rs. 282 -40 and considering the terms of compro 
mise it shall have to be held that the compromise is reasonable . I accept the same 
and pass an award in terms of tlie joint settlement annexure A which shall from 
part of this award . 


No order as to costs . 


Sd / - A . T . ZAMARE : 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial. 

Tribunal, Bombay . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

Camp: ERNAKULAM 
In the matter of Reference C .G .I. T . 15 / 65 . 
N . P . Nayak - Management. 

Workmen Represented by the Secretary, Steamer Tally Clerks Union .. 
Cochin - 1 - Workmen . 

Compromise Petition Aled jointly by the Management and the Workmen , 

1. The above Industrial Dispute is pending before the Honourabe Tribunal 
for disposal. 

II. The parties to the dispute after mutual 1:egotiation have decided to compro 
mise the above dispute on the following hasts . 

( i ) The Management hereof agrees to pay a sum of Rs. 200 / - ( Rupees Two 
Hundred only ) to Sri B . L . Mailla in full and Anal payment of all bills submitted 
by the workman and pending payment from the management and also as compen 
sation for all claim for employment and wages raised in the Industrial Dispute 
CGIT - 15 / 05 now under adjudication before this Hon . Tribunal and also in settle 
ment of all other disputes regarding wages and bills pending either before Conchlia 
tion officers , Labour Courts or Industrial Tribunals , 


SF.G. (i!)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA : 19. 1890 


7693 


2 


. 


- 


- 


( ii ) The Workmen represented by the Secretary, Steamer Tally Clerks. Thion , 
Cochin hereby declare that the Industrial Dispute in CGIT - 15 / 65 is fully settled by 
the terins of this Agreement and 

. ( iii ) Both parties to the dispute pray that the Hon . Tribunal may be pleaseçi 
10 pass an awa : incorporating the ternis of Settlement hereof. 
Dated this the 22nd Day of April 1968 . 

Sd / 
Management: sd / - N . P. NAYAK . 

Workmen 
Represented by the Steamer Tally 

Clerks Union , Cochin - 1 . 
Sd / 
Advocates for the Management. 

Advocate for the Union . 

[No, 29 / 135864 -LRIII . ) 


Sd / 


S . O . 1980 .- - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Indo Ceylon Trading Company , Cochin and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on 21st May 1968. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL. GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL . BOMBAY. 

REFERENCE NO. CGIT -49 OF 1968 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Inco Ceylon Trading Company , Cochin , 

AND 
THEIR WORKMEN : 
PRESENT : 

Shri A . T . Zambre . - Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers .--- Shri P . Balakrishna Menon , Advocate . 

For the workeren . - Shri P . F . Thomas, Advocate and President, Port and 
Steamer Workmen s Association . 
STATE ; Kerala . 

INDUSTRY : Major Ports and Docks . 
Bombay , the 30th April 1968 

AWARD 
The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour Employment and Rehabi 
litation (Department of Labour & Employment) have by their Order No. 28 ( 96 ) / 
466 -LRIV dated 15th September 1966 referred to this Tribunal an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Indo Ceylon Trading Company 
Ltd ., and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the following sche 
dule :-- - 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the Indo Ceylon Trading Company, Steamer Agents, Cochin - 9, are 

justified in refusing employment to Shri Donald Clements , Cargo , 
Supervisor on board the Country Crafts froin 14th March 1966 ? If 

not, to what relict is the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The employers , the Indo- Ceylon Trading Co . Ltd ., are steamcr agents and 
commission agents with their office at Cochin . They are also agents for the Maldi 
vian Nationals Trading Corporation ( Ceylon ) Ltd ., and act as representatives of 
the Maldivian Government Trade Agents . The management had engaged the 
svorkmen Shri Donald as il cargo supervisor and he was in their employ he cuve 
him employment upto 14th March 1966 but subsequently denied employment to 
him and hence the Port and Steamer Workmen s Association of which he was a 
nember made representations against the management as a result of which this 
clispute was raised , 


2694 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II 


The Association has by its statement of claim contended that Shri Donald 
Clements was working with the management as a cargo supervisor for the steamers 
arriving at Cochin for the last nine yearg , His work was supervised and control 
led by the management and they used to pay him his remuneration at scheduled 
rates , Shri Donald Clements also worked with the management as a cargo super 
visor of the cargo loaded and unloaded at Cochin Port from the Maldivian country 
crafts arriving at Cochin Harbour and he did this work continuously for the last 
thrce years . He was efficient and dutiful but the management refused him emp 
loyment on the country craft S . V . Deefarum on 14th March 1966 and also subse 
quently without assigning any reason . When he as usual went to the office he 
was illegally denied employment. The management engaged their office clerk for 
the supervision work of the other countrycrafts which arrived at the Cochin Port 
and as Shri Donald Clements was illegally denied employment he was entitled to 
get his wages during the period and as the refusal of work was not justified Shri 
Donald Clements is entitled to reinstatement and the wages during the period he 
was refused employment. 


The company in its statement in reply has denied the claim of the Association . 
They have admitted that they had employed Shri Donald Clements as a super 
visor but have contended that he was engaged as and when the company required 
his services on payment of daily rate of wages. They have contended that they 
were not technically the agents for loading and unloading for the country crafts 
which called at Cochin and the company had to act as per the Tindal s (Master s ) 
requirements . The country crafts did not come under the purview of the Dock 
Labour Board for supply of labour . The country crafts make their own arrange 
ments by emploving ships crew or recruiting labour from shore . " The crafts 
mnentioned in the dispute advised the company that thcy did not require any 
lavour or tally or supervision work and thereforc the company did not arrange 
for labour and the services of Shri Donald were not required . As Shri Donald 
was not in the regular employ of the company there was no question of any 
lefusal of employment and he was not entitled to get any relief or wages . 


After the statements of claim an :l the reply and rejoinder were Aled by the 
partles the matter was adjourned from time to time, At the time of thls sitting 
of the Tribunal at Ernakulam the parlies negotiated the dispute and settled the 
some amicably and fled a memorandum of settlement at annexure A . By this 
settlement the inanagement has agreed to employ Shri Donald Clements on country 
crafts as before and has further agreed to pay him Rs. 76 / - towards his wages. 
The settlement is rcasonable and I accept the same and make an award in terms 
of the joint memorandum or set! lenient annexure A which shall form part of 
this award . 
No order as to costs . 

Sd . / - A . T . ZAMBTE . 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial, 

Tribunal, Bombay . 


ANNERURE A 


COPY 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. 49 / 86 . 
Indo - Ceylon Trading Company , Post Box No. 124, Mattancherry , Cochin -2, Kerala 

Management . 
General Secretary , Port and Steamer Workers Association Branch - South Cherlal, 
Cochin 2.- - Union . 

The industrial dispute between Indo - Ceylon Trading Company , Cochin and 
their workmen referrcr to this Tribunal has been settled by the parties as follows: 

1. The management agrees to employ Sri Donald Clements in country crafts 
os helore , as and when necessary . 

2 . The Management without going into the merits of the contentiong agree to 
pay Sri Donald Clements Rs. 76 ( Seventy - six rupees ) towards his wages , 


Szo, 8 (0 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 .. 


2695 


The parties pray that the Honourable Tribunal may be pleased to pass 
award in torms of this settlement . 

Dated this the 24th day of April 1968 . 


Sd / 


Counsel for Indo-Ceylon Trading Company. 

Sd / 
Counsel ( President ) Port and Steamers 

Workers Association . 
Sd. / - P . F . THOMAS, Advocate . 

(No. 28 /96 / 66 -LRIV . ] 


SO , 1981. - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the Industrial Dispute between the employers 
in relation to M / s . Paul Abrao and Sons, Cochin and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on 1st May , 1968, 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY. 

REFERENCE NO. CGIT - 18 OF 1966 
PARTIES : 
The employers in relation to M / s . Paul Abran and Sons , Cochin . 

AND 
Their Workmen . 
Present 

Shri A . T . Bambre , Presiding Oncer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the employers. — Shri R . S . Menon , Manager , Paul Abrao and Sons . 

For the horkmen .- - Shri P . F . Thomas , Advocate. 
STATE : Kerala 

INDUSTRY : Major Ports and Docko. 
Bombay 30th April 1968 . 

AWARD 
By Order No . 28 ( 30 ) / 66 -LRIV dated 1st April, 1966 the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation , have referred to this 
Tribunal an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
Messrs Paul Abrao and Sons, Cochin - 3 and their workmen represented by the 
Cochin Thuramugha Thozhilali Union in respect of the matter set forth in the 
following Schedule : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the coal handling workers employed by M /s . Paul Abrao . and 

Sons, Cochin - 3 are entitled to the benefits given under the interim 
recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Port and Dock 

Workers ? If so to what extent and from what date ." 
The employers Messrs Paul Abrao and Sons are working as coal handling 
contractors of the Southern Railway at Willingdon Island , Cochin - 3 . The work 
men in their employment had raised a disputo through their union viz ., the Cochin 
Thuramugha Thozhilali Union for the interim relief recommendation by the Cen 
tral Wage Board for Port and Dock Workers and this dispute has been by the 
joint application of the employers and the workmen has been referred to this 
Tribunal for decision by the order dated 1st April, 1966 . 


After the receipt of reference notices dated 25th April 1988 , 14th February 
1968 were issued to the parties . In spite of these notices neither the employers nor 
the office bearers of the union Aled any statements of claim or reply . On the 
4th March , 1968 when the dispute came up for hearing at Ernakulam the emp 
loyers though served were absent. The General Secretary of the Cochin Thura 
mugha Thozhilall Union Shri A . A . Kochunny who was present submitted to the 


2696 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : JUNF 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 ., 1890 


[ PART II - 


Tribunal that the dispute between the workmen and the employers was compro 
mised and the union did not want to press the issue . On that day he had also 
Aled a written application to that effect . With a view to hear the employers the 
matter was then adjourned and again notices were issued to the management 
and the union for hearing on 22nd April, 1968 at Ernakulam , At this hearing the 
representatives of both parties appeared . They submitted that the matter has 
been settled and the union did not want to press its claim for interim relief. As 
the matter has been settled by the parties and the union does not press the claim 
it shall have to be held that the workers have settled the dispute and they are not 
entitled to the relief claimed and hence my award accordingly . 
No order as to costs, 

( Sd /) - A . T . ZAMBRE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial, 

Tribunal, Bombay, 
[No. 28/ 30 / 86 -LRIV . ] 


New Delhi, the 29th May 1968 
S . O . 1982. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in respect of complaint under section 33A of the 
said Act Aled by Shri C . Velu an employee of Shri A . K Muhamedkutty , Boat 
owner and Contractor, Cochin - 1, which was received by the Central Government 
on 23rd May, 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

APPLICATION NO. CGIT-40 OF 1965. 
PARTIES : 
Shri C. Velu, residing at Eravell, Cochin -1. - Applicant 

Versus 
Shri A . K , Muhamedkutty , Boatowner and Contractor, Eraveli , Cochin - 1 

Opp . Party . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri A . T . Zambre — Presiding Omcer. 
APPEARANCES ; 

No appearance for either party . 
STATE : Maharashtra. 

INDUSTRY : Major Ports and Docks. 
Dated 26th day of April, 1968 

AWARD 
This is a complaint by one Shri C . Velu of Eraveli, Cochin - 1 against his 
employers Shri A . K . Muhamedkutty , Boat Owner and Contractor under seclion 
33A of thc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. The complainant bas alleged that he was employed by the opposite party 
as a tyndal for the last four years and was in their continuous employ since then 
The opposite party by their fetter dated 8th March , 1965 dismissed the petitioner 
from service alleging that he had committed certain misconduct . He has alleged 
that the management had not given him any opportunity to show cause against 
the charges. He was a workman concerned in industrial dispute Ref. No . CGIT 32 
of 1963. The employers also did not pay him one month s wages nor did they 
make any application for approval. The dismissal was illegal as the employers 
had contravened the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
and he should be reinstated . 

3 . After this complaint dated 27th June , 1965 notices were issued to the parties 
but the company did not Ale any written statement and the matter was adjourned 
from time to time. Even at the hearing fixed in Ernakulam on 4th March , 1968 
both parties were absent but Shri T . C . N . Menon , Advocate , who had filed the 
original complaint on behalf of the workmen informed the Tribunal that he had 


Src . 8 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 . 1968 / JY AISTHA 19. 1890 


2697 


heard that the workmen had compromisecl thc matter . However , again notices 
were sent and the complaint was fixed for hearing at Ernakulam on 22nd April, 
1968. Both parties were served with the notices of the hearing but they have 
remained absent and the matter is proceeded ex parte . The complaint filed by 
Shri Velu was in respect of his alleged dismissal from service . In spite of several 
notices he has remained absent which shows that he is not interested in the 
proceeding and it shall have to be held that he is not entitled to any relief and 
hence my award accordingly . 
No order as to costs. 

Sd / - A . T . ZANIBRE, 

Presiding Oncer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 

[No. 28 / 62 / 62 / LRIV . 1 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
8 .0 . 1983 . - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby pubushes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal , Bombay in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in 
relation to Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on 24th May, 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE NO . CGIT - 29 OF 1968 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay 

AND 
their workmen . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri A , T . Zambre , Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers. - - Shri R . K . Shetty , Deputy Legal Adviser. Bombay 

Port Trust. 
For the workmen . - Shri S . Mitra , General Secretary, B . P . T . General 
Workers Union , 

Shri S . K . Shetye, General Secretary , B . P . T . Em 
ployees Union 
STATE : Maharashtra . 

INDUSTRY : Major Ports and Docks. 
Dated 26th April 1968 

AWARD 
The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment by their 
Order No. 28 139 84 LRIV dated 21st January 1965 have referred to this Tribunal 
an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Trustees 
of the Port of Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the following Schedule : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the promotion of Shri D . D . Bendihale to the post of clectrician 

grade 1 on the MPV Venu in the place of Shri N . G . Patil is justified ? 
If not to what relief, if any , is Shri N . G . Patil entitled rd frorn 
what date ? " 


2 . The circumstances giving rise to the dispute may be stated in rei AS 
follows: 

The employers , the Trustees of the Port of Bombay had on or about the 7th 
of June 1962 commissioned the Motor Pilot Vessel Venu and put it into service . 
By their Resolution No. T . R . 569, dated 19th June, 1962 they had for this vessel 
sanctioned some staff including three electricians and three wiremen and hence 
the electric foreman of the Southern Division of the employers had issued a 


2698 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[ Part II 


notice inviting applications from the electricians and wiremen of both the electri 
cal sections for the post of electricians and wiremen in this vessel , At about 
that time the workman Shri D . D . Bendkhale who was holding the necessary 
qualification of first - class P . W . D . supervisor s certificate was working as electri 
cian grade II in the electrical establishment of the Bombay Port Trust and was 
posted at Wadala , while Shri N . G . Patil the other workman had only appeared 
for the examination for the necessary qualification and was working as a wire 
man in the electrical establishment in Southern Division . As per the notice Shri 
D . D . Bendkhale had submitted his application for the post on the pilot vessel 
through the head time- keeper Shri N . G . Patil had made two applications, 
There were other applications also and ultimately Shri N . G . Patil who passed 
the examination for the necessary qualification came to be appointed and was 
directed to report himself from 13th August, 1962 to the post of electrician on the 
MPV Venu . 

3 . It appears that in spite of applications of the candidates for the post of 
electrician grade I on the MPV Venu and the appointment of Shri N . G . Patil 
the result of the selection was not declared and Shri Bendkhale did not come to 
know that Shri Patil was selected for the post and that he had joined it . On 
oral enquiries Shri Bendkhale was told that the selection would be according 
to merits and seniority. He was working in the Northern Division of the Depart 
ment at Wadala and was completely in dark about the appointment. On the 27th 
September , 1963 when he was sent to the M . P . V . Venu in leave vacancy to work 
there as an electrician 1st grade he came to know about the selection and appoint 
ment of the junior person Shri N . G . Patil. In fact Shri Patil had passed the 
second class certificate examination for being appointed as electrician grade II 
only in the month of July , 1962 that is alter the last date for receiving the appli 
cations for the post of the electrician on the vessel VENU . On the date of appli 
cations he did not possess the requisite qualification for the post notified and 
henc.. Shri Bendkhale raised a clispute through the Employees Union and made 
Teresentations to the authorities about the injustice done to him . 

4 . The Chairman of the Bombay Port Trust thereafter made enquiries and came 
to a finding that Shri D . D . Benckhale who was originally appointed as electrician 
grade IJ. had for the post of electrician grade I on the MPV Venu a claim superior 
to Shri N . G . Patil who was only a wireman on the material date. The applica 
tion ci Shri Bendkhale had mysteriously disappeared . The Chairman therefore 
roverted Shri Patil and transferred him to the electrical establishment and 
appointed Shri D . D . Bendlchale as an electrician grade I on the MPV Venu . 
After this appointment Shri Patil made representations through the B . P . T , General 
Workers Union who raised this dispute. They had also approached the Concilia 
tion Officer and after the failure report it was referred to this Tribunol. 

5 . The B . P . T . General Workers Union representing the case of Shri N . G . 
Patll in whose place Shri D . D . Bendkhale was promoted have by their statement 
of claim contended that as per the notice inviting applications the right to apply 
for the post was not restricted only to electricians grade II but the appointments 
were thrown open to all employees of the Port Trust working as wireman as well 
X assistant wireman and the only requirement that the applicant should possess 
was the necessary qualification needed to work as electrician grade I. It is alleged 
that some four persons who had applied for the post and were selected refused 
to accept the transfer on the vessel VENU because of the service conditions and 
thereafter Shri Patil who had passed the examination held by the Maharashtra 
Government in July , 1962 was selected by the Deputy Conservator to work as 
electrician grude t and was appointed to do that work on the MPV VENU with 
effect from 14th August 1962. Thus Patil was appointed by the authorities through 
the process of selection and as he had been working on the MPV Venų with 
effect from 14th August, 1962 upto 29th June, 1964 he should have been considered 
permanent and confirmed against that post and his demotion was not justified . 

8 . As regards the claim made by Shri D . D . Bendkhalc the B . P . T . General 
Workers Union has alleged that there was no record available to show that Shri 
Benrikhale hail made an application for the post . He had also not raised any 
Quicction or made any protest against the appointment of Shri Patil and the sug 
gestion that his application was suppressed by somebody was far fetched . They 
have contended that it was only in the early part of 1964 that the B . P . T . 
Employees Union had demanded the promotion and transfer of Shri Bendkhale 
on M . P . V , VENU and approached the then General Manager of the Bombay Port 
Trust Shri Simoes on the subject. It is alleged that as Shri Simoes was favour 
ably inclined towards the B .PT. Employees Union he had ignored the requirem 
ments of law and had issued orders immediately for the reversion of Shri N . G . 
Patil and the promotion of Shri Bendkhale on the M . P . V . VENU . NO employee 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2699 


working under the Chief Engineer , B . P . T ., in the electrical establishment had any 
claim whatsoever on the post of electrician Grade I on the M . P . V . VENU on the 
basis of seniority either on the length of service or on any other standard . Shri 
Bendkhale was not entitled to be promoted in place of Shri Patil and by promoting 
him the Bombay Port Trust has shown favouritism and unfair labour practice . 
There was absolutely no justification for the promotion of Shri Bendkhale and 
this Tribunal should direct the authorities to restore Shri Patil to his former 
position . 

7 . Shri D . D . Bendkhale is represented by the B . P . T . Employees Union who 
by their written statement alleged that Shri Bendkhale had the necesary qualifica 
tion for the post of electrician grade I on the M . P . V . VENU . As per notice he 
had sent his application within time on the 11th June 1982 through proper channel. 
The other candidate Shri N . G . Patil had not also the necessary qualifcation at 
the tiine of the application and preferring him to Shri Bendkhale and promoting 
him to the post of electrician Grade I was unjust. They have further contended 
that the action of the electrical foreman and other officers in not declaring the 
result of the selection after inviting applications as per notice was improper. It 
is alleged that the officers and employers concerned were interested in the promo 
tion of Shri Patil and had played all the mischief to the detriment of Shri Bend 
khale was completcly in the dark about the appointment of Shri N . G . Patil till 
he was actually sent to the VENU to work there in the leave vacancy for a 
period of nine days . It was thercafter that he approached the electrical foreman 
and explained to him about the wrongful promotion of Shri N . G . Patil ignoring 
his just, and legitimate claims and to his surprise he was told that his application 
was rrot traceable . Thereafter his case was taken up by the union and the union 
inade representations to the employers on his behalf and the Chairman recognised 
his superior claims and his promotion was justifed . 

8 . The employers have by their statement supported the claim of Shri D . D . 
Bendkiale to the post of electrician grade I . Besides the merits they have raised 
technical pieas contending that the reference involved only a question about the 
promotion of an employec and as the subject matter of promotion is a managerial 
function it is not open to this Tribunal to adjudicate upon the dispute and this 
Tribuna ! has no jurisdiction to deal with the same. On merits they have con 
ienda tirit in the notice inviting the applications for the post of electriclan it 
was made clear that the said post was temporary. It was also clear from T . R . 
No . 569 dated 19th June, 1962 that the entire crew needed for the M . P . V . VENU 
was one appointed on a provisional basis and was subject to revision and as the 
entir CW was on experimental and temporary basis Shri N . G . Patil the ag 
gric: 94.61 employee can have no claim to the post. 


9 . It is contended that the fact of his having been a temporary or officiating 
enıployce is very clear from the monthly pay sheet as well as the wage slips issued 
to him under the Minimum Wages Act. Moreover Shri Patil had passed the first 
class wireman s certificate examination of the P . W . D . only in the month of July 
1982 that is after 18th June 1962 the last date for receiving the applications and 
he chini not even possess the requisite qualification on the relevant date . As re 
gourds the application of Shri Bendkhale it is submitted that he had put in his 
application on 11th June 1962 well within the last date for the receipt of the 
applications but it had mysteriously disappeared from the section of the head time 
keeper. The fact that he had put in his application for the said post was algo 
borne out by the statement dated 13th December , 1963 of Shri K , F . Rabadi, 
Churgoman . Electrical Establishinent. Northern Division , Wadala of the Chief 
Engineer s Department. Clearly he had made the application and he had a 
superio )" claim to the post of electrician on the M . P . V . VENU as against the claim 
of Slivi N . G .. Patil who was merely a wireman . 


10 . According to the employers Shri N . G . Patil who was a wireman was not 
eligible even to apply for the post of electrician on the M . P . V . VENU and the 
merc fact that the application of Shri Bendkhale had disappeared could not ex 
tinguish his superior claim for the appointment of electrician on the pilot vessel 
in preference to Shrt N , G . Patil. They have denied the allegations about 
favouritism to the B . P . T . Employees Union in the matter of promotion and have 
contender that Shri Patil was wrongly appointed as electrician on the pilot vessel 
as against the superior claim of Shri Bendkhale. It has been further contended 
that the appointments of Shri N . G . Patil and V . D . Taralkar were made on an 
ad hoc hasis as a stop gap arrangement to meet with the requirements and cannot 
be considered as permanent appointments or appointments made through the 
regular process of selection only at a later stage. The employers had realised that 


2703 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYUISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART IL 


Shri Bendkhale had a superior claim over that of Shri N , G . Patil and the General 
Manager had taken a just and proper decision in appointing Shri D . D : Bendkhale 
as electrician and in reverting Shri N . G . Patil ; that it was nelther uny unfair 
labour practice nor nepotism or favouritisni. On the contrary the injustice caused 
was undone and the promotion of Shri D . D . Bendkhale was justified . 

11. The reference pertains to a dispute regarding the promotion of an employee 
and so the Legal Adviser on behalf of the management has contended that as 
promotion is only a managerial function this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to deal 
with the same. He has relled upon the ruling reported in Brooke Bond case 1963 
ILLJ p . 250 and has argued that the dispute involves a pure question of promotion 
and it will not be open to this Tribunal to adjudicate upon it. I have already 
quoted the terms of the reference in the schedule by which this Tribunal has been 
asked to decide the question whether the promotion of Shri D . D . Bendkhale to the 
post of clectrician grade I on M . P . V . VENU in place of Shri N . G . Patil is justified 
and for deciding the same the Tribunal shall have to consider the comparative 
merits and other factors of the two candidates . However, I do not think that on 
that account only the matter will be taken out of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal. 
In the very ruling Brooke Bond case relled upon by the management the question 
involved was one of promotion and their Lordships have given the general formula 
jin respect of promotions in the following terms: 
" All things being equal seniority shall count for promotion . If the senior 

person has been overlooked in the question of promotion he is at 
llberty to ask the concern for reason why he has been overlooked in 

which case the concern shall give him the rcasons." 
In this ruling it has been further observed : 
" It is true that though promotions would normally be a part of the manage 

ment s function if it appears that in promoting one employee in pre 
ference to another the management has been actuated by malicious 
considerations or that the failure to promote one eligible person 
amounts to an unfair labour practice , that would be a different matter . 
But in the absence of mala fides normally it must be left to the dis 
cretion of the management to select which of the employees should 
be promoted at a given time subject of course to the formula to which 

we have just referred ." 
From these observations it is clear that though promotion is the function of the 
management the Tribunal can in certain cases transfer in the action taken by 
the management and I shall now discuss the evidence about the relative merlts 
of the candidates and whether there was any unfair labour practice or mala fides 
in the proniotion of Shri Bendkhale . 

12 . The employers had by their order transferred Shri N . G . Patil to the 
electrical department and had promoted Shri D . D . Bendkhale to the post of 
electrician grade I on the M . P . V . VENU after which the B . P . T . General Workers 
Union had made representations to the management on behalf of Shri N . G . Pauli 
contending that Shri N . G . Patil was appointed to the post of electrician grade I 
on the VENU with effect froin 14th August. 1962 . He was working against the 
permanent post on the vessel continuously and as the General Manager Shri 
Simoes was favourably inclined towards the B . P . T . Employees Union he ignored 
the requirements of the law and immediately issued orders for the reversion of 
Shri N . G . Patil and the promotion of Shri D . D . Bendkhale on the pilot vessel ; 
and the Bombay Port Trust was guilty of practising discrimination and encourag 
ing inter -union rivalries , and thereby provocating trade disputes . I have already 
observed that both Shri D . D . Bendkhalę and Shrị N . G . Patil were in the employ 
of the Port Trust and were working in the electric department. It is not in dis 
pute that the electric foreman had issued a notice inviting applications for the 
post and the last date for the receipt of applications was 18th June, 1962. It is 
also not in dispute that long before this notice Shri D . D . Bendkhale was working 
as electrician grade II and was holding the requisite qualification for the appoint 
ment 10 the post of electrician grade I. It is clear from the record that he had 
passed the examination for the first class certificate for P . W . D , in the year 1960 
and was qualified for the appointment while Shri N . G . Patil was working merely 
as a wireman on the day when the notice inviting the applications for the post 
was issued . At that time he had only appeared for the examination of the first 
class wireman s certificate Exhibit 5 which is the certificate produced by him 
dated 17th July , 1962 and it is clear that till the last date for submission of 

is 
applications for the post Shri Patil did not have even the necessary qualification 
for making an application and being appointed to the post . 


Sra . 3 (11) 


11 (, VELIF OL INDIT : JI VE 8 1968 / }} ISTILA 19 . 1894 


2700 


13 It is not in dispute that the channel of promotion in the engineering and 
port department is that an assistant wireman is to be promoted as wireman and 
tlie wireman is thereafter promoted as clectrician grade II who will be further 
cligible to be promoted as electrician grade I on the Pilot Vessel. It is clear from 
the extract exhibit E3 that the method of recruitment of electriciun on the M . P . V 
VENU is liv promotion of an electrician grade II on the basis of seniority - cum 
suitability It is further clear that only a person wlio holds a first class certificate 
PW . D . and is working as an electrician grade II is eligible for promotion to the 
post of clectrician on the pilot vessel Considering these requirements it is clear 
that Shirt D D . Bendkhale was eligible for promotion subject to other conditions 
regarding scniority and suitability . 

14 . However , the case of Shri N . G . Patil is quite different. I have already 
observed that he had 1101 the necessary qualifcation for appointnient to the post 
oſ electrician grade I. Not only he was not quallfiec! but as he was not working 
as electrician grade II he was also not eligible for that promotion . Shri D . D 
Bendkhali was working as electrician grade I. He was senior , qualified and 
cligible had it shall have to be held that Shri Bendkhale had far superior claims 
to the post in comparison to the chain of Shri N . G Patil. In fact considering 
the requi enient it shall have to be held that Shri Patil had absolutely no claim 
to the post . He was neither quailted for making the application nor was he 
eligible . He was not also senior and it is very surprising that the oficer concerned 
should l orward his name overriding the claims of others. 

15 Stiri S . Maitra the Gencral Secretary of the Bombay Port Trust General 
Workers Union has contended that according to the notiflcation the management 
had thrown upon the post to wiremen as well as electriciany grade Il . Shri Patil 
was a wireman and had made the application . He was selected and was also 
appointed to the post and had worked there about a year and a half and the sub 
sequent action of the management in reverting him and promoting Shri Bendkhale 
was not justified . I do not find any substance in the contention Considering 
the notice issued by the management it cannot be said that the post of the electri 
iian grado 100 the MPV VENU was thrown opcu even to wiremen , I have 
already in ntloned from the extracts exhibit E - 3 the method of recrultment to the 
post of clectrician grade I on the Pllot Vessel which shows that it is by promotion 
of the electrician grade II on the basis of seniority - cum - suitability . It cannot be 
read in the notice exhibit E - 1 that the post oť plccirician grade I on the vessel 
was thrown open to wirement. It is significant to remember that by the notice 
applications were invited for two categories of appointments - one for the post of 
electrician grade 1 and one for the post of wiremel) The notice reads: - 

Applications are invited for two posts of electricians grade I (Rs. 125 

6 - - 155 — EB — K — 185 ( C . C . scale ) equivalent Second Pay Cominission 
scale Rs. 175 — 6 — 205 — 7 — 240 and one post of wireman grade ( 1 ) Rs . 
76 — -5 — 105 , ( 2 ) 100 — 5 — 150 ( C & C scale ) equivalent Second Pay 
Commission Graus ( ) Rs. 125 — 3 — 131 - 4 - - 155 , ( 2 ) Rs 150 — 5 — 180 
for Pilot Vessel D . P . V . VENU belonging to the Deputy Conservator 
from elect irlans and wireman or assistant wirenien of both the 
clectrical sections possessing requisite cualifications." 


This notice shows that the assistunt wireman was to apply for the post of wireman 
and the cutention that even assistant wiremen could have applied for the post 
of electr : cia gracle I does not stand to reason , 


16 The contention that Shri Patil was appointed on regular selection atter the 
applications is not also supported by any record . The management has contended 
that it was an ad hoc appointment. It appears that there was neither any test 
nor ny interview and Shri Patil was transferred from the engineering department 
to the Purt Department. I have already observed that the last date for submitting 
applications as per the nuiice was 18th June , 1962 . It is not in dispute that Shri 
Patil 7211 not mci le any application for the post before this date . It is clear from 
exhibit E - 6 that lie Arst made an application on 19th July , 1962 and the second 
application on 26th July , 1962. His first application is for the post of clectrician 
2nd frarle ancl by the second application he had requested that he should be 
appointed as electrician on the M .PV. VENU . These applications cannot be said 
to have been made in the regular course as per the notifcation and it appears that 
alter the expiry of the date the olicor concerned took these applications from Shri 
Patil wind consilered his case with special favour. Neither the B .PT. General 
Workers Union nor Shri Patil has produced the order of his appointment to the 
post of clectrician grade I on MPV. VENU and it has been argued that no order 
was issued to him but only a memo was sent. The employers have produced the 


2702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(Part II 


letter of the Mechanical Superintendent to the Deputy Conservator dated 11th 
August , 1982 exhibit E - 2 in which he has stated : 
" In continuation of my above I have to inform you that Shri Narayan 

Ganpat Patil wireman clectrical establishment S . D . who holds the 
necessary qualification of first - class P . W . D . supervisor s certificate pre 
scribed for the post of electrician is being directed to report to you 
from 13th August , 1962 for appointment in the vacant post of electri 
cian on the above vessel for which he has put in an application to 

the undersigned ." 
No appointment order had been issued to Shri Patil and there is no reason to dis 
belleve the management s contention that the appointment of Shri N . G . Patil 
was on an ad hoc basis by mere transfer and the contention of the Bombay Port 
Trust General Workers Union that he was regularly selected and was appointed 
to the permanent post cannot be accepted . 

17 . The B . P . T . Employees Union has contended that not only Shri D . D , 
Bendkhale was qualified for appointment to the post of electrician grade I on the 
M . P . V . VENU but he had also made an application in time. According to them 
his application was suppressed and the ocer favouring Shri Patil appointed him . 
It is clear that Shri Bendkhale made a representation and a complaint to the 
management in October 1963 when he was posted at the M . P . V . VENU in the 
leave vacancy . After this complaint the management had made enquiries about 
his original application and it is clear from the statement of Shri Rabadi dated 
13th December, 1963 that Shri Bendkhale had made an application . It is also 
clear that he had made a note about that application in the muster book , Shri 
Rabadi is a chargeman at Wadala , Shri Shetve for the B . P . T . Emaployees Union 
has contended that Shri Rabadi is a member of the B . P . T . General Workers Union 
and he would not tell a lle in favour of Shri Bendkhalę who was a member of the 
rival employees union . The statement of Shri Rabadi given in 1963 proves that 
Shri Bendkhale had made the application within time. Shri Bendkhale had the 
necessary qualification . He had made the application and it is clear that he was 
also entitled to get the post in preference to Shri Patil . 

18. It is true that Shri N . G . Patil worked at the post to which he was trans 
ferred from 14th August, 1962 to June 1963. However, this circumstance in itself 
will not entitle him to any claim to that post. I have already observed that no 
order of appointment has been issued in favour to Shri Patil. If we consider the 
terms and conditions of service stated in the notice it is clear that the appoint 
ment was to be on a temporary basis . In the notice itself It has been stated 
“ The selection will be made from candidates possessing requisite qualifica 

tions according to the seniority . 
The selected employees will be required to carry out their duties as per 

service condition shown below and as may be changed or required by 

the Dy . Conservator from time to time. 
The selected candidates will be appointed on a temporary basis in the Arst 

instance . They inay however be posted permanently if found guitable 
and will be transferred to the Dy. Conservator Department. On such 
transfer being effected guch employees will have no lien or claim for 

promotion to higher posts in the electrical section ." . 
Thus it is clear that the appointment of the selected candidate also would be on a 
temporary basis. Secondly : the post itself was of a temporary nature. I have 
alleady observed that the trustees of the Port of Bombay had commissioned the 
veggel M . P . V . Venu and had sanctioned some start on a provisional basis , The 
excerpts from the proceedings of the meeting of the trustees held on 19th June 
1962, exhibit E - 7 para 25 states: 
" It is expected that there will consequently be scope for an appreciable 

reduction in the crew of the M . P . V . Venu after sufficient experience 
has been gained on working it. Accordingly all staff proposals are 
provisional and are subject to review . .. . . " 


Thus it is clear that the post itself was temporary . The appointment was also 
to be made on a temporary basis and the contention of the B . P . T . General Workers 
Union that Shri Patil wus working against a permanent post does not stand to 
reason and in view of the temporary nature of the post Shri Patti cannot be 
said to have any claim over it . The learned Legal Adviser has invited any attention 
to the Supreme Court ruling reported in 1987 1 LLJ page 708 (712 ) . It has been 
held by this Court that when a first appointment or promotion is made on 


Sec. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2703 


probation for a specific period and the employee is allowed to continue in the post 
after the expiry of the said period without any specific order of confirmation be 
continues as a probationer only and acqutres no substantive right to hold the post . 
In view of this ruling also it shall have to be held that Shri Patil had no claim 
of permanency over the post and the management had every right to transfer bim 
to the original department. 

19 . The General Secretary of the Bombay Port Trust General Workers Union 
has very seriously criticised the conduct of the management in promoting Shri 
Bendkhale and has alleged that the General Manager had practised discrimination 
and encouraged inter -union rlvarly . It has been argued that Shri Patil belonged 
to the B . P . T , General Workers Union while Shri Bendkhale was a member of the 
B . P . T . Employees Union and as the General Manager Shri Simoes was favourably 
inclined to the B . P . T . Employees Union he favoured Shri Bendkhale and promoted 
him to the post in place of Shri Patil. Shri Shetye the General Secretary of the 
B . P . T . Employees Union has contended that both Shri Patli and Shri Bendkhale 
were members of his union but after the representation of Shri Bendkhale against 
Shri Patil Shri Patil left the B . P . T . Employees Union and joined the B .P . T . General 
Workers Union and there was no question of encouragement of Interunion rivalry 
by the management. He has further argued that Shri Bendkhale had a superior 
claim to the post. Shri Patil was ineligible and unqualified and was appointed 
to the post even though he had not made any application In time. The management 
had merely undone the injustice that was caused to Shri Bendkhale because of the 
loss of his application and there was no question of any favouritism . In view of 
the circumstance that both Shri Bendkhale and Shri Patil formerly belonged to 
the B . P . T . Employees Union and that Shri Patil Joined the BPT. General 
Workers Union subsequently after the complaint by the Employees Union on 
behalf of Shri Bendkhale I do not And any substance in the grievance that the 
management was indulging in inter -union rivalry or was showing favouritiem , 
Had the management been favouring the B . P . T . Employees Union Shri Bendkbale 
would not have been required to suffer for such a long time in the whole affair . 

20 . I have already discussed the merits of the two candidates whose promotion 
is the subject matter of this refercnce. There is overwhelming evidence to show 
that Shri Bendkhale had superior claims to Shri Patil for the post of electrician 
grade I. on the M . P . V . Venu . The circumstances also clearly show that though 
Shri Patil did not cven make an application some officer who was interested in 
him had favoured him by taking the application and transferring him to the 
Deputy Conservator s Department. The claims of Shri D . D . Bendkhale were 
Ignored and by the subsequent order the management had undone the injustice 
caused to him . There is no question of any unfair labour practice or mala fides 
in the promotion of Shri Bendkhale and the action of the management in promoting 
Shri Bendkhale is justified . In view of this finding the question of any relief to 
Shri N , G . Pati does not arise . Hence my award accordingly . 


No order as to costs 


Sd / - A . T . ZAMBRE , 

Presiding Oncer 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal , Bombay , 

No . 29 / 139 / 64 /LRIV .) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th May , 1968 
S . O . 1984 . — Whereas an Industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the Madras Dock Labour Board , Madras , and their workmen repre 
gented by Madras Harbour Workers Union , Madras , Madras · Port and Dock 
Workers , Congress, Madras , and Madras Port and Dock Workers Progressive 
Union , Madras ; 

And whereas the said employers and their workmen have , by a written agree 
ment under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , agreed to refer the said dispute to Arbitration and have forwarded to the 
Central Government, under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act, a copy 
of the said arbitration agreement; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) section 10 - A of the said 
Act , the Central Government hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement 
which was received by it on the 14th May, 1988 . 


3 04 


THF GIZETTI OLINDI JOVE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Piri II - 


FORM C 
[ See Rule 7) ] 


Form Of Agreement for reference of an Industrial Dispute to an Arbitrator under 

Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . 


Name of Parties 


Representing employers. - Madras Dock Labour Board , North 
Madras 1 . 


Beach 


Road , 


Representing workmen 
1 / 73, Broadway , Madras- 1 . 


( 1) Madras Harbour Workers Union , " Bhagat House " , 


(2 ) Muciras Port & Dock Workers Congress, 11, Philips Street, Madias-l . 


( 3 ) " Taciras Port & Dock Workers Progressive Union , 22 , North 
Madras 


Beach Road , 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial dispute 
To the arbitration of Shri O . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , 
Shram Shakti Bhavan " , Rafi Marg , New Delhi. 
(1) Specifle matters in dispute : 

Whether or not there should be any 

difference in Axation of datum and 
piece rate between the shore workers 

and stevedore workers. 
Representing the employer : 
( li ) Details of the parties to the Madras Dock Labour Board , North 
dispute including the name 

Beach Road , Madras- 1 
and address of the estah 
lishment or undertaking 

involved . 
Representing the workmen : 

( 1 ) Madras Harbour Workers Union , 

" Bhagat House " , 1 / 73 , Broadway , 

Madras - 1 . 
(2 ) Madras Port & Dock Workers Con 

gress, 11, Philips Street, Madras -1 . 
( 3 ) Madras Port & Dock Workers 

Progressive Union , 22 , North Beach 

Road , Madras- 1 . 
( ili) Name of the Union if any, ( 1 ) Madras Harbour Workers Union , 
representing the worknien 

" Bhagat House " , 1 / 73 , Broadway , 
in question ; 

Madras -1 . 
(2 ) Madras Port & Dock Workers Con 

gress , 11, Philips Street, Madras - 1 
(3 ) Madras Port & Dock Workers Pro 

gressive Union , 22 , North Beach 

Road , Madrag - 1 . 
( ivi Ttotal number of worknien 

2 , 237 
employed in the under 

taking afl ected . 
TV Estimated number of work 

2 ,237. 
men allected or likely to 

be affected by the dispute : 
We further agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of three months or within 
such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. In 

to 
rase the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the referènce 


Sec . 3 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2705 


arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresh arbitration , 
Signature of Employer : 

Representing workmen . 
( Sd .) Illegible . 

( $ d . ) Illegible , 
Chairman , 

Secretary, 
Madras Stevedores Association . 

Madras Harbour Workers Union . 
( Scl.) Illegible . 

( Sd .) Illegible . 
Vice Chairman , 

Secretary , 
Madras Stevedores Association , 

Madras Port & Dock Workers, 

Progressive Union . 
( Sd . ) Illegible . 

(Sd .) Illegible. 
Deputy Chairman , 

General Secretary , 
Madras Dock Labour Board , 

Madras Port & Dock Workers 

Congress . 
Witnesses ; 
( 1 ) ( Sd .) Illegible. 
( 2 ) (Sd .) Illegible . 

[No. 29 / 19 / 68 /LRIII).] 
S . O . 1985 . - Whercas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to Messrs. Vinsons, Bombay , and their workmen represented by the 
Transport and Dock Workers Union Bombay ; 

And, whereas the said employers and their workmen have by a written agree 
ment under sub - section ( 1) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration and have forwarded 
to the Central Government, under sub -section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act , a 
copy of the said arbitration agreement; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement 
which was received by it on the 16th May, 1968 . 


FORM C 
( Sec Rule 7 ) 

Agreement 
Under Section 10 -24 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . 

BETWEEN . 
Names of Parties 
Representing Employers : 

M /s . Vingons, Imperial Chambers , 
Wilson Road , Ballard Estate , 

į Siri M , S . Vazirani, Partacr . 
Bombay- I , 


Representing the workmen : 

Transport & Dock Workers Unjon P . D . Mello 1 
Bhavan , P . D . Mello Road , Carnac Bundes, 

Shri R . A . Pandit, Asstt . Secretary . 
Bombay- 1. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri Salim M . Merchant, City Ice Building , 298 , Bazargate, Port, Bombay - I. 

(1) Specific Matter in Dispute : 
“ What should be the normal duties of Shri D . A . Rao Permanent Dock 

Clerk , of M / s . Vinsons, Bombay, and whether the action of the 
Management in requiring Shri D . A . Rao to work in the office 
instead of in the Docks is justifed ; if not to what relief Shri Rąo is 

entitled and from what date ? " . 
( 11) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of 

the establishment or undertaking involved . 


2706 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


[PART II 


( a ) Shri M . S . Vazirani, Partner . M / s. Vinsons , Imperial Chambers, Wilson 

Road, Ballard Estate , Bombay- 1. 
(b ) The Secretary, Transport & Dock Workers Union , P .D Mello Bhavan , 

P .D Mello Road, Carnac Bunder, Bombay- 1. 
( lli) Name of the Union , if any, representing the workmen in question - Trans 

port & Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 
( lv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected : 225 . 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

disputes : 1. (only one) . 
We further agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 60 ( sixty ) days or within 
such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . In 
case the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the reference to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for 
fresh arbitration , 
Witnesses : 

Signature of the Parties . 

For Vinsons . 
1. (SH.) G . Runachandran . 

1. M . S . VAZIRANI. 

Partner 
2 . (Sd .) S. M . Abdul Salam , 

2 , R . A . PA DIT . 

Asst. Secretary . 

Transport & Dock 
Workers Union , Bombay 
3 . ITO TO 3 . 

President, 

Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 
Bombay, dated 20th April, 1968 . 

I consent to act as Arbitrator in this dispute . 

Sd /- illegible 

Borobay 8 - 5 - 1968 . 
[No. 28 (43) / 68 -LR -III. ] 
C . RAMDAS, Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 1986 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 19 
of the Minimum Wages Act , 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No. $ .O . 1098 dated the 23rd March , 1967, namely : 
In the Table appended to the said notification in item X . after Sl. No. 4 , 

the following Sl. No, shall be inserted namely - 
" 4A . Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) Bhubaneswar " . 

[No. LWI( I)2 (3 )/ 67.] 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
S . O . 1987. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Minimum 
Wages Act , 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby adds to Part I of 
the Schedule to that Act , employment in the maintenance of buildings and employ 
· ment in the construction and maintenance of runways, notice of its intention to 
do so having already been given by the notification of the Government of India 
in the Department of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 2926 , dated the 17th 
August, 1967 . as required by the said section , 

[No. LWI( I )6 (26 ) / 65 . ] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


$ £c. 3 ( ti )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2707 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 29th May 1988 


S . O . 1988 . - In pursuance of section 16 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government appoints Dr. M . J . Bhatt , as Medical 
Commissioner , Employees State Insurance Corporation vice Dr. J . K . Thanawala , 
for a period up to the 8th December , 1970 with effect from the 22nd April, 1968 
(After -noon ) . 

[ No. F . 5 / 6 /66 -HI. ] 


New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
S . O . 1989. - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 4 of the 
Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
the Additional Secretary to the Government of Bihar Finance Department, as a 
member of the Regional Committee for the State of Bihar and makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour No , S . R . O . 1380 dated the 4th July , 1953, namely : 

In the said notifcation , for the entry in the second column against serial num 
ber 3 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" The Additional Secretary to the Government of Bihar , Finance Department , 
Patna.” 

[No. 12 ( 7) 64-PF .II.) 


S . O . 1990 . - Whercas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
Che majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs . 
Rajasthan Textile Mills Association , Durlabh Bhavan , Mirza Ismail Road , Jaipur 
(Rajasthan ) have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 
1952 ( 19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
August , 1967 . 

[No. 8 ( 222 )87 -PF - II.] 


S . O . 1991.-_ Whereas it appears to the Central Gopernment that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as the 
Standard Mills , Vettilaiyurani (Via ) Sivakasi , Ramnad District (Madras State ) have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
Said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
March , 1968 

[No . 8 / 75 /69-PF . II . ] 


S . O . 1992 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs . 
Rattan Corporation , Barar House , 237 – 243 Abdul Rehman Street , Bombay- 3 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , thereforc , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
March , 1967. 

[No. 8 / 11 /68-PF .II. ] 


2708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 . 1968 / JYXISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART II 


New Delhi, the 1st June 1968 
S . O . 1993. - - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3A of the 
Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Scheines , Act 1948 (46 of 1948 ), read with 
sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 9 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, the 
Central Government hereby appoints the Additional Secretary to the Government 
of India . Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour and Employnient) as the Chairman of the Board ol Trustees and makes the 
following amnendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitstion ( Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No . S . O . 2451 daled the 17th July , 1967 , namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry against serial juinbor 1, the following 
entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" The Additional Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Labour , 

Employment and Rehabilitation (Departmeni oi Labour and Employ 
ment) , New Delhi , Chairman " . 

No. 4 (5 ) /07-PF - 1. ] 


S . O . 19.94 . - In pursuance of clause ( 2 ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5A of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Government here 
by appoints , with effect from the 1st June, 1968, the Additional Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) , as the Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees ( Central Board ) , and makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Social Security 
No. S . O . 1156 dated the 1st April, 1965 , namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry against Serial Number 1, the following 
entry shall be substituted, namely : 
" The Additional Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Labour, 

Employment and Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employ - . 
ment, New Delhi.” 

[ No . 12 /5 /63 / PF -II .] 


S . O . 1995 . In exercise of the powers conferred by scccion 73 - 1 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948), the Central Governinent, having regard to the location of the 
factories specified in column 4 of the Table below , in sparsc areas specified in the correspond 
ing entry in column 3 of the said Table in the State of Kerala , hereby exempts the said factories 
from payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act. 


TABLE 


9 . No . Name of District 


Name of Aren 


Name of the Factory 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


I Alleppey 


Sherthallai . 


. 


Do. 


Cannanore 


Nm 
tocno 


4 Ernakulam . 

Do , . 


• Mavelikkara . . 
i Kasargode . . 
. Wellington Island 

Edapally . 
Paravattani 

Mullootkara 
. Wadakkancherry . 


. (1) Shankar Paint & OilMills (P ) Ltd . 

4 , Cullen Road . 
( ii ) Variamparanbil Oil Mills , Man 

appuram . 
. 1.C . Tile Works Ltd ., No. S Ind. (A ) 

56 , Vallikunnam . 
. K Subrayakamath & Sons, Jalsoor 

Road , 
Indian Oil Corporation Ltd ., Cochin -3 . 
Becna Industries , Edapally . 
O , T . Inasu and Sons, 
Ratna Industrica , 

(1) Fathima Matha Mills . 
(ii) Saraswathy Match Industries , 

Attoor . 
( in ) Vishnu Wood Works . 
. Ice and Freezing Plant, 


Trichur 

Do . 


Do. . . 


9 


Quilon 


. . Neendakuru . 


. 


(No. F . 6 ( 19 )/68- 14I .] 


SE:C. 3 ( 1)] 


THE C .VETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2709 


S . O . 1996 . . Whereas the Central Government was satisfied , that Nadia Textile 
Mills was situateà in Ranaghat area which was a sparse area ( that is , an area 
whose insurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Nadia in the State 
of West Bengal; 

And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of cmployers special contribution under 
section 73 - F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , until en 
forcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Labour and Employment No . 6 ( 83 ) /63.HI dated the 22nd Marclı , 1963; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable popula 
tion of the Ranaghat area in the district of Nadia in the State of West Bengal 
has now exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparsc area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employces State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : - - 
In the Schedule appended to the said notiAcation in the entries relating to 

serial No . 9 , the entry " Ranaghat" in column 3 and the corresponding 
entries in column 4 shall be omitted . 

( No. F .6 ( 38 ) / 88 - HI.I.] 


S . O . 1997 .- Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that I Lalit Chandra 
Silpa Şamabaya Samiti Lid , 2 Modern Industrial Cooperative Society Ltd . 3 
Nutangram Industrial Cooperative Society Ltd . 4 Nalini Ranjan Cooperative 
Textile Society Ltd . 5 Dcbendra Nath Cotton Mills, were situated in Ranaghat 
area which was a sparse alea ( that is , an arca whose insurable population was 
less than 500 ) in the district of Nadia in the State of West Bengal; 

And , whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area , the aforesaid facio 
ries were granted exemption from the payment of employers special contribu 
tion under section 73- F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 19-18 ( 34 of 1948 ) , 
until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that aren by the 
Central Government in the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 2587 dated the 4th September, 1983 ; 

And , whereas , the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Ranaghat area in the district of Nadia in the State of West Bengal has 
now exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government here 
by makes the following further amendment in the said notification namely : 
In the Schedule appended to the said notification , serial No. 3 and the 
entries relating thereto shall be omitted . 

(No. F . 6 ( 38 )/ 68 -HI. III.) 
S . O . 1998 . - Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that v / s . Ranaghat 
Textile Mills No. 2 was situated in Ranaghat area which was å sparse arca ( that 
is , an area whose insurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Nadia 
in the State of West Bengal; 

And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse arca , the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of employers special contribution under 
section 73 - F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation , ( Department of Labour and Employment) 
No . S . O . 3863 dated the 8th December , 1986 ; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that tlie insurable population 
of the Ranaghat area in the district of Nadia in the State of West Bengal has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise, of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government here 
by makes the following further amendment in the said notification , namely : 
In the Schedule appended to the said notification , in the entries relating to 

Serial No . 6 , the entry " Ranaghat" in column 3 and the corresponding 
entries in column 4 shall be omitted , 

[No. 7 ,8 ( 38 ) /88 - HIIII.) 


2710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JİYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


(Part 11 


S . O . 1999. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Megbre 
I. T . T . Far East and Pacific Inc, Allahabad Bank Building , 17 , Parliament Street , 
New Delhi, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 
1952 ( 19 of 1932 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment 

This notiſcation shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st March , 
1987 . 

[No. 8 / 31 / 08 -PF . II. ) 


New Delhi, the 3rd June 1968 
S . O . 2000 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Y . A . Bhujade to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme 
framed thereunder, in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of, the Central Government, and in relation to any establishment con 
nected with fr railway company , a mine or an oil field or a controlled industry . 

[No . 21 (2 )/ 88 -PF -I.) 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
S . O . 2001 , In pursuance of the provisions of bye - law XI( 4 ) of the Bye - laws 
of the National Council for Safety in Mines , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the audited accounts of receipts and expenditure of the National 
Council for Safety in Mines for the period from the 1st April, 1986 to the 31st . 
March , 1987 alongwith the Auditor s Report. 
Audit Report on the accounts of the National Council for Safety in Mines , Dhanbad , 

for the year ending 318t March , 1987. 
1. The audit of the accounts of the National Council for Safety in Mines, Dhan 
bad for the period from 1st April 1966 to 31st March 1967, was conducted by the 
Accountant General, Bihar in accordance with clause XI ( 2 ) of the Bye-laws of the 
Council . 

2 . A statement of Income and Expenditure for the year 1966 -67 and Balance 
Sheet as on 31st March 1967 of the Council is exhibited in the annexure to this 
report, with the necessary certificate of audit. 

3. The irregularities noticed which were of minor nature have been includeci 
in a separate Audit Note , not published . 


NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR SAFFTY IN NINES 

CHANBAR 
Incom : und Expenditure Accounts for the year ending 31st March , 1967 


Sec.3(ii)] 


1XPENDITU RF 


INCOMF 


Rs. P . 


Rs. P . 


Rs. P. 


RS. P . 


To Pay of Officers 
To pay of establishmepts 
Add oc account of outstandicg expenses on 

this accouct . . 


19, 458 .67 


57 , 369 . 20 By Grant- in - id Contribution 

Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund , Bihar 


11, 168 . 09 


125 . 80 


69 ,584 . 47 Coal Vines Labour Velfare Furd , Bihar 


6 ,95. 124. CC 


To Travelling allowacce 
To Deardess ailovadce . 
To Medical Expenses . 
To Deputation allowance 
To House rect allowarce 
To Other allowacces . 


61, 584 . 47 
21, 912 . 60 
45 ,332 . 36 
15 , 044 71 
2 ,718 . 14 
5 , 903 : 29 
5 ,732 . 03 


Interest or fixed deposit of Rs. 5 , 00 ,000 : 

made with the State Bark of India , Dhar 
bad , frcor time to time 


16 , 500 . CO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


96 ,643. 13 


Income accrued but not received 


. 


. 


9 , 666 . 00 


7 , 32 ,458 . 00 


Add on account of the following outstanding 
expenses : 

Rs. P . 
Deputation allowance 

45970 
Netical Expenses 

70 . 00 
Travelling allowance 

109 . 80 
Other allowances (O . T . A ) 

14 . 60 
P earness allowance 

42 . 60 
House Rent allowance 

9 . 45 


Miscellaneous receipis 
Sale of old pewspapers 
Recovery of House rent allogance . 


705 : 15 


44 : 49 
383 25 


• 


97 , 348 . 28 


Deduct on account of the last year s payrcots 

made as f llors ; 
Travelling allowance 

2 , 592 .65 
Other allowance (O . T . A . ) 634 . 75 
Dearness allowance 

1, 007 . 79 


Private use of office vehicles 


153 . 76 


( - 4, 235. 19 


4 : 12 


93 , 113 . 09 
6 , 19 , 908 .04 


93, 113 . 09 


Private use of Office telephone 
Other Receipts . . . 


To other charges contingencies 


12 , 128 .61 


12 ,714 . 23 


2711 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


2712 


Rs, 


P . 


Rs 


P . 


Rs. P. 


Douct on account of the last year payments 

as detailed below : 
House rept for office accorcodation : 

Rs. P . 
1964 -65 

2 , 334 . 00 
1965-66 

4 ,279 . 00 
Printing bill 

3 ,375 . 65 


619 , 983 65 


6 ,09 , 919 . 39 


Less capitalised as detailed below : 

Rs, P . 
Granapbone records 

10 , 737 . 73 
Stores & equipment 

1 , 84 ,370 . 15 
Fooks & publications 

33 ,509 . 16 
Fxbibits & Models 

31,656 . 61 
Publicity Vans 

1 ,64 ,836 . 14 
Typewriters and Duplicators 2 , 498 . 87 
Furniture 

2 , 846 . 95 ( - ) 4 , 30 ,455 - 61 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18,1890 


1, 79 ,463 . 78 

6 ,845 : 59 


3 , 528 . 00 


To leave salary & pension contribution 
To Council s contribution to G . P . Fund 
on account of depreciations on the past 

years , assets as follows : 
Cycle @ 10 % on Rs. 174 . 96 

17 : 50 
Typewriters & Duplicators a 
20 % on Rs. 7 , 860 . 09 

1 , 572 . 02 
Books @ 5 % OD Bs. 969 . 42 

48 : 47 
Stores & Equiprrent @ 10 % 
on Rs. 42,439 - 24 

4 , 243 . 92 
Furniture @ 5 % on Rs. 12 , 385 . 24 619 . 26 
Publicity van @ 20 % on 
Rs. 91 , 301- 40 

18 , 260 . 28 
Axio Visual Exhibits @ 
2 . 5 % on Rs. 5 , 582 50 

140 . 00 
Films @ 20 % OD Rs. 3 , 113 . 65 622 . 73 
Excess of Income over expenditure 


25 ,52418 
3 ,09 , 744 . 92 


[PARTII 


TOTAL 


7 ,45 , 172: 23 


ΤΟΤΑΙ. 


7 ,45, 17223 


DHANBAD 
Balance Sheers as on 31 -3 - 1967 


Src.3(li)) 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. P. 


Rs. P. 


Rs. P . 


Rs, P . 


Capital Fund : 
Past Years 
Excess of Income over expenditure . . 


14 ,30 ,725 . 60 
3,09, 74492 


11,58 ,406 .63 


. 


Cash Balance 
17,40,470 52 Add on account of sale proceeds of the 

following : 
Gramophone Records , 
Boks & Publications . . . 
Jacore accrued . . . 


8 , 538 . 40 
+ 3 ,52193 


22 , 060 . 33 
9 ,666 . 00 


OUTSTANDING FXPENSES : 
Pay of Establishment 
Deputation Allowance 
Medical Expenses 
Travelling Allowance 
Other allowance ( 0 . T . A . 
Dearness allowance 
House Rent allowance 


125 . 80 
459 . 70 

70 . 00 
108 . 80 
I . 60 
42 .60 
9 . 45 


Assets : 
Past years : 


Cycle 
Less depreciation 


830 . 95 


( 


174 . 96 
17 . 50 


157 . 46 


7 , 860 . 09 
1, 572 . 02 


1 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAIŞTHA18.1890 


Type Writers & Duplicators 
Less depreciation 
Books 
I ess depreciation 


6 , 288 . 07 


969 .42 
( - 148 . 47 


920 . 95 


Stores & Equipments 
Less depreciation 


42 ,439 . 24 
( - ) 4 ,243 . 92 


38 ,195: 32 


Furniture 
Less depreciation 


12 , 385 . 24 
- - > 19 : 26 


11, 765. 98 


Publicity Vans 
Less depreciation 


- 


91,301 40 
18 ,260 . 28 


73, 041. 12 


Audio Visual Exhibits 
Less depreciation 


( 


5 , 582 : 50 

140 . 00 


S42 50 


Films 
Less depreciation 


3 , 113 .65 
( - - )622. 73 


2 , 490 . 92 


Gramophone records 


3 , 083 . 91 


1 ,41,386 . 23 1 


2713 


LIABILITIES 


Re. P . 


Rs. P . 


Rs. P . 


Rs. P. 


RS, P 


2714 


CURRENT YEAR S 
Gramophone records 
Less disposed of 


10 , 737 . 73 
( - - )8 ,538 . 40 


2 , 199 33 


- 


1, 84 ,370 . 15 


Stores & Equipments , 
Books & Publications 
Less disposed of 


33 ,509 . 16 
- 113 ,521. 93 


19 , 987 . 23 


Exhibits & Models , 
Publicity Vans . 
Typewriters & Duplicators 
Furniture - - 
Recoverable advances 


31 ,656 .61 
1 ,64,836 . 14 

2 ,498. 87 
2 ,846 . 95 


7 ,08, 395 . 28 


1,387 - 00 


TOTAL 


17 ,41, 301 : 47 


TOTAL 


17 ,41, 301 + 7 


I have examined the foregoing accounts of the Council. I have obtained all the Information and explanations that I have required and subject to the 
observation in the separate Audit Notes , I certify as result of my audit that in my opinion these accounts are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Councu accreding to the best of my information and explanation given to meand as shown by the looks of 
The Council. 

Sd ; - D . JERATH , 
Accountant General , Bihar. 

No. 30 : 16 /68 -MI. ] 
VIDYA PRAKASH , Dy . Secy . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JIYAISTHA18.1890 


(PariII— 


Spo , 8 ( u )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8. 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2715 


is of thescheduleras 
, MyseFehabi 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
( Office of the Chief Settlement Commissloner ) 

New Delhi, the 13th May 1968 
$ . 0 . 2002. - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is neces -. 
sary to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the schedule hereto annexed 
in the States of Gujarat , Maharashtra , Andhra Pradesh . Madras, Mysore and 
Kerala for a public purpose being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabi 
litation of displaced persons including payment of compensation to such persons. 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 12 of the Dis -. 
placed persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , it is notifi 
ed that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires the 
evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 

A SCHEDULE 
All properties in the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra , Madras , Mysore, Andhra 
Pradesh and Kerala which have vested in the Custodian under section 11 of the 
Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act , 1951, as a result of adjudication by the Com 
petent Oilicer under the provisions of the said Act up to 31st March 1968 and in 
respect of which no appeals have been filed , and if Aled , have been rejected by the 
Appellate Officer. 

[No. 1( 27) / Comp . & Prop /61. ] 

A . G . VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner & Ex -Oficio 

Under Secretary .. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2003 . — The Government of Madras having nominated the Director of 
Industries and Commerce , Government of Madras, Madras, to be a member of the 
Central Silk Board under clause ( e ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Central 
Silk Board Act, 1948 (61 of 1948 ) in place of Secretary to the Government of 
Madras, Industries, Labour and Housing Department, Madras - 9 , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Commercc No. 1272 dated the 10th 
April , 1967, namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry against serial number 10 , the following: 
entry shall be substituted, namely : 
" 10 . Director of Industries and Commerce, Government of Madras , Madrag." 

[No. F . 22 / 1 /67 - Tex ( F ). ] 
DAULAT RAM , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 2004. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - sectioni 
( 1 ) of section 9 ot the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953 ) , the Central Government bereby. 
appoints until further orders Shri S . $ . Nandkeolyar as Secretary , Tea Board , 
Calcutta . He shall hold charge of the said post in addition to his present post of 
Director of Tea Development Tea Board . 

(No. 1 (8 ) -Plant( A ) / 88 . ); 


ROBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
S . O . 2005 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 4 of the Rubber Act , 1947 ( 24 of 1947 ) , the Central Government bereby 
nominates Shri M . M . Muthiah . Managing Director , New Ambad ? Estate ( P ) Ltd . 


2716 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : JUVE 8 . 1968 / JIYAISTUA 18 . 1890) 


P xri 11 -- 


Nagercoil (Madras State ), and Dr. N D . Ghatge, Scientist, Natural Chemical Labo 
Tatory. Poona, as members of the Rubber Board to represent interests cther than 
manufacturers and labour with effect from the 31st May , 1968, and up to the 21st 
February , 1971 . 

[No. F 15 (3 )Plant( B ) / 67 . ] 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
S . O . 2006 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 4 of the Coir Industry 
Act, 1953 ( 45 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby appoint Shri V . V . Dev , 
Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Commerce , New Delhi, as Chairman , Coir Board , 
Ernakulam , with effect from the afternoon of the 15th May , 1968 . 

A , G . V . SUBRAHMANIAM , Under Secy . 
A . G . V . SUBRAHMANIAM , Under Serv 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 2007. - - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry vi 
Commerce No. SO 1604, dated the 2nd May , 1968 , published at pages 583 und 
504 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part II - - Section 3 - Sub - section ( il ) , 
dated the 2nd May , 1968, relating to the Cotton Textiles (Control) Amendment 
Order , 1968, at page 584 

(a ) in line 11, for " paragraph ( a )” , read " paragruph (h )" ; 
( b ) in line 13, for " the sald paragraph ( a )" , read " paragraph (a ) of the 
said sub - clause ” . 

[No. F . 21( 1 ) - Tex ( A ) / 68 .1 
H . K , BANSAL, Dy. Socy . 


(Omce of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Lloensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1988 
8 . 0 . 2008 .- A licence No. P /SS / 1606383 / C /XX / 23 /CD / 23 - 24 dated 15111 April 
" 1967 of the value of Rs. 33 , 859 for import of Copper, Zinc and Tin was issued to 
M / s . Sugan Chand Nanhey Mal, Mohalla Loharan , Jagadhri subject to the condi 
tion that the goods imported against this licence shall be used only in licence 
holder s factory and no portion thereof shall be sold to any other party or utilized 
or permitted to be used in any other manner. 

2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No. 9 - 39 67 |ENF CLA15121 dated 29th 
February 1988 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days of the issue 
of this notice as to why the said licence in their favour should not be cancelled 
on the ground that the Central Government was satisfied that the licence would 
not serve the purpose for which it had been granted , in terms of Clause 9 , sub 
clause ( cc ) . 

3 . The said show cause notice has been received back undelivered in this office 
with the remarks of the postal authorities " Intentionally refused " . 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other 
wisc rendered ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 , sub - clause ( CC ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No . PSS 1606383CXX 23CD 23 - 24 dated 15th April 
1967 for Rs. 33, 859 Issued in favour of M / s . Sugan Chand Nanhey Mal, Mohalla 
Loharan , Jagadhri. 

[No. S - 39 |67|ENF CLA . ] 


Src . 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2717 


(a ) Thazar, Paharcane wat 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1968 
S . O . 2009. -- Licence Nos. E -077807 / 62 / EI / CCI / D / QL - 1 and E -077806 / 02 / EI / 
CCIDIQL - I dated 2nd July 1963 of the value of Rs. 1000 each for import on 
watches parts and complete watches was issued to Messrs . Raj Trading Agency , 
2 : 8 ) , Main Bazar, Paharganj, New Delhi subject to the conditions as under : 
( a ) This licence will be subject to the condition in force relating to the 

goods covered by the licence , as described in the relevant Import 
Trade Control Policy Book , or any amendinent thereof made upto , 
and including the date of issue of the licence , unless otherwise 

specified 
( b ) Where an irrevocable letter of credit is opened by the holder of the 

licence to finance the import of any goods, covered thereby , then 
the authorised dealer in foreign exchange, through whom the credit 
is opened , shall be deemed to be a joint holder of this licence to 

the extent of the goods covered by the credit. 
( c ) Payments authorised to be made against it shall not cover any com 

mission , discount, or like rebates allowed by the foreign suppliers / 

manufacturers to the concessionaires i. e ., the importers in India . 
2 . Special Police Establishment have reported that the licensee Ms. Raj 
Trading Agency, Paharganj, New Delhi is not in existence . The licensee obtained 
these two licences on the basis of Quota Certificates No. 971499 dated 7th January 
195 ) which had already been cancelled by this office on 28th July 1966 . 

3 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or 
otherwisc rendered incffective . Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the 
powers vested in him under clause 9 , sub -clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control ) 
Order , 1955 hereby cancel the licence Nos , E -077807 / 62 / EI / CCI / D and E -077808 / 
62 /EI/CCI D of M / s . Raj Trading Agency , 1789, Main Bazar, Paharganj, 
Nov Delhi. 

[ No. 236 / 33 / ENF CLA / 1675. ] 

J. S. BEDI, 
Jt. Chief Controller , of Imports and Exports , 


( Office of the Jt, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

Calcutta , the 26th April 1988 
S . O . 2010. - - A licence No . P / SS / 1574922 / C / XX / 23 / C / C / 23- 24 / NF dated the 
21 April, 1967 of the value of Rs. 17,554 / - for import of Zinc and Tin was issued 
to M / s. Agrason Metal Industries, 9), Gopal Chandra Chatterjee Road , Calcutta - 2 
Siibiect to the conditions as under :-. 
( a ) all items of goods imported under it shall be used only in the licence 

holder s factory and no portion thereof will be sold to or be permitted 

to be utilised by any other party . 
2 . Thereafter, a show cause notice No . 117 / 67 / E & L dated 19th March , 1968 
was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said Licence 
in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the factory of the firm 
has been closed for more than one year and they have committed a breach of 
condition of licence In terms of Clalise 9 . sub - clause ( C ) . 

3. No response to the aforesaid show cause notice from M / s . Agrason Metal 
Industries, 9 . Gopal Chandra Chatterjee Road , Calcutta - 2 had been receiveci . 

4 . Tho undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the 
conclusion that the purpose for which licence in question was issued would not 
Le served . 

3. Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragrapin , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other 
wisę rendered ineffective . Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him uncler Clause 9 sub - clause ( C ) of the Imports (Control) Orcler , 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No. P / SS / 1574927 / C / XX / 23 / C / C / 23 - 24 /NF dated 24th 


2718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II - 


April, 1967 for Rs. 17,554 / - issued in favour of M / s. Agrason Metal Industries , 
9 . Gopal Chandra Chatterjee Road , Calcutia - 2 . 

[No. 117, 67 / E & L . ] 

J. MUKHERJEE , 
Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th May 1968 
S . O . 2011. - M / s . K . B Thaker & Co ., 110, Commerce House . 140 , Medows 
Street, Bombay - 1 were granted an import licence No. P /NA / AD / 2016837 / C / XX / 24 / 
C / H / 21- 22 /NQQ dated 21st March , 1967 for Rs. 15 , 866 / - ( Rupees Fifteen Thousand 
Eight Hundred and Sixty Six only . ) for the import of motor vehicle parts etc . 88 
per list attached thereto . The licensee has now applied to this office for the issue 
of a duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said licence on the ground that the 
original Customs Purposes copy ot the licence in question , has been nisplaced / lost . 
It is further stated that the original Customs Purposes copy of the licence has been 
registered with Bombay Port Customs House and has been utilised to the extent 
of Rs. 3 ,486 / -. The duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the licence now required 
by the licencee is for the value of Rs. 11,900 / -, 

In support of their contention the licensee have filed an affidavit. I am accord 
ingly satisfied that the original Customs Purposes copy of the said licence has been 
lost. Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred under sub - clause 9 ( CC ) of 
The Imports (Control) Order, 1955 dated 2nd December , 1955 (as amended ) , then 
original Customs Purposcs copy of the licence No. P /NA / AD / 2016837 / C / XX / 24 / 
C / H / 21 - 22 / NQQ dated 21st March , 1967 issued to M / s . K . B . Thaker & Co ., 
110 , Commerce House, 140, Mędows Street, Bombay -1 . Is hereby cancelled . 
A duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said licence is belng issued . 

[ No. NDRS / K -228 /65- 86 / 122 ) 

Y . J. DENNISON , 
Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exporls ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 2012 . -- A licence No . P / RM / 2155655 / C / XX / 24 / C / II / 23 - 24 dated 30th 
December , 1968 of the value of Rs. 4 , 15 ,000 / - for import of Raw Materials / Com 
ponents as per list attached to the licence was issued to M / s. Kamdar Rayons, 
Sarangpur Chakla , Ahmedabad (Gujrat State ) . 

2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No. 10 ( 9 ) / 68 - Vig / 1350 dated 13th May, 1968 
was issued asking them to show cause within ten days as to why the said licence 
in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the same was obtained 
on the basis of forged recommendation of the Directorate General of Technical 
Development in terms of Clause 9 . 

3 . The aforesaid show cause notice , was recelved back undelivered from the 
Postal authorities with the remark Not known . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the 
conclusion that the said licence has been obtained on the basis of falso and 
fabricated documents and the licence holders are avoiding the show cause notice 

5 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise 
rendere i ineffective. Therefore , the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested 
in hin under Clause 9 ( c ) of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 hereby cancel the 
licence No . P / RM / 2155655 / C / XX / 24 / C / H / 23- 24 dated 30th December , 1966 for 


SEO . (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968/ JIYAISTHA 18. 1990 


2719 


Rs. 4 , 15 ,000 / - issued in favour of M / s. Kamdar Rayons, Sarangpur Chakla , 
Ahmedabad (Gujrat State ) . 

[No. 10 (9 ) / 68- Vig . ] 

B . D . BHATTACHARYA , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th May 1988 


S . O . 2013 . - In exercise of the powers conferred By Section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (37 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R . P . Naik , 
as Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors , in an officiating capacity with 
cffect from 3rd April, 1968 , until further orders . 

[ No . F . 2 /45 /67 - FC .] 
H . B . KANSAL , Under Secy . 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 


Te Fataht, On HS, 1968 


QO NO 2014 .- -77177 xfFTTH , 1952 ( 10) 52 71 37 ) # UTI 3 fass 
पए अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद द्वारा श्री पार० पी० नायक को 23 
अप्रैल 1998 से अगले आदेश तक स्थानापन्न रूह से केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड का अध्यक्ष नियुक्त 
* T 

[FO 2 /45 /67 – 1970 efto ] 
afTata 347 , na afari 


New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 


S . O . 2015 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 , clause (b ) of sub - rule 
( 2 ) of rule 12 and sub - rulc ( I ) of rule 24 read with rule 33 of the Central Civil Services (Classifica 
tion , Controland Appcal) Rules , 1965, the President herebymakes the following further amend 
ments in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 618 dated the 28th February , 1957, namely : 


In the Schedule to the said Notification : 
( 1 ) In Part- I,General Central Service , Class II after the existing entries, the following shall 

be inserted namely : 


" National Film Archive of India 
All posts Secretary , Ministry of Informa- Secretary , Ministry of Informa- All” 
tion and Broadcasting . 

tion and Broadcasting, 


2720 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[Part II 


(2 ) In Part - II, General Central Servicc, Class III after the existing entries , the following 

shall be inserted namely : 


2 


“ National Film Archive of India 


All posts 


Assistant Curator, Nation - Assistant Curator , Nation - AII 
al Film Archive of al Film Archive of 
India , 

India , 


Deputy Secretary , 
Ministry of Informa 

tion and Broad 
Casting " . 


(3 ) In Part- III , General Central Service , Class IV after the existing entries, the following 

shall be inscrtcd , namely : 


“ National Film Archive of India 
All posts Assistant Curator, Na . Assistant Curator, Na- All 

tional Film Archive of tional Film Archive of 
India , 

India , 


Deputy Secretary , 
Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broad 
Casting " . 


- 


- 


- 


7 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- 


. 


[No. F. 10 /23/68- FA .) 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 


(Department of Petroleum ) 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 


S . O . 2016 .-- -Whereas by a notification of the Governinent of India in the Min 
istry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O , No. 3323 , dated 2nd September , 1967, under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of 
User in Land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its inten 
tion to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule appended 
to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines . 


And whereas the competent authority has, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section & 
of the said Act . submitted report to the Government; 


And whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification . 


Now , whereas , in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the 
right of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica 
tion is hercby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that 
the right of user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Govern 
ment, vest on this date of the publication of this declaration ir. the Oil and Natu 
ral Gas Commission free from all encumbrances. 


Stc. $( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2720 


SCHEDULE 


State : 


Gujarat 


Distt. : Ahmedabad 


Taluka : City 


Village 


SI. No . 


Hector 


Are . 


P . Apo. 


Chandlodia 
Vejalpur 
Okap . 


119 / 2 
248 
1139 
III 


OOOO 


. 


[No. 31 (41) /64 - Prod /I0C (Vol. II .) 
New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
S . O . 2017 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from the drill Bites well No . 
BM , BN & B . O . to G .G . S . I In the Navagam Oil Field , in Gujarat State , Pipelines 
should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose 
of laying such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of ußer in the land 
described in the schedule annexed hereto . 

2. Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (1) of the 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User In Land ) Act , 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its Intention to acquiro 
the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the dato 
of this notification objection to the laying of the pipelines under the land to tho 
competent Authority , at Elempeeco , 4th floor, Sayaji Gun ) , Opp , College, Lokmanya 
Tilak Road , Baroda - 5 in the Omce of the Gujarat Pipelines Project (Oil and Natu 
ral Gas Commission ) Baroda . Every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 


(Laying pipeline from Drlu Site No. B . M . & B . N ., B . O . to G .G .S .) 


SCHEDULE 
Distt. Keira 


State : Gujarat 


Taluka : Matar. 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hector 


Arc . 


P . Art . 


Kathawade 


. 


. 


175/ 1 
175/ 2 
175 / 3 
176 / 1 
176 /2 
180 / 1 
180 /2 
180 /3 
180 / 4 
180 /5 
181 
182 . 
238 . 
250 . 
249 / 1 
249 / 2 
247 / 1 
247 / 2 
247 / 3 
292 / 1 
292 / 2 
292 / 3 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


2722 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1.968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hector 


Are. 


P. Are. 


— 


303/ 8 
303 / 9 
3o3 / 6 
303 / 12 
303 /13 


هابه 


Navagam 


. 


. 


н 


998 / 1 
998 / 2 
998 / 3 
998 / 4 
998/ 3 
999/ 2 
1952 
105I 
1053 
1050 
1054 / 1 
1035 / т 
10552 
J056 / I 
1056/ 2 
1056/ 3 
1056/ 4 
1966 / I 
1066 / 2 
1066 / 3 


oooooooo 


енюшн++ 


سه 


o 


м 


o 


о 


852 /1 
852 /2 
852 /3 


به 


o 


853 


854 
858 / 1 
858 / 2 
857 
746 
740 / I 
740 / 2 
74o/ 3 
74 / I 
741 / 2 
74 / 3 
748 / т 
748/ 2 


بهبهبه 


oooooo 


иодоч 


ом 


749 
738 


oooooooo 


737 
706 


шик 


o 


и 


бір 
б16 / 
бі6 / 2 / t 
б16 / 2 / 2 
618 / I 
618/ 2 
бI8/ 3 


. 


o 


ш 


бII / 1 
б / 2 
61 / 3 
SOI 
6o8 / 1 
бо8/ 2 
бо8 / 3 


تهیه تهنسا| 


ooo 


шо 


2723 


880. 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


= 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hector 


Are. 


P. Art . 


16 


Navagam contd . 


0 


. 


. 


467/ 1 P 


. 


. 


. 


467/2 


502 / 1 


. 


. 


whom 


8 


0 


. 


502 /2 
502 /3 
502/ 4 
502 / 5 
502 /6 
504 


. 


- 


-T. 


302/ 1 
302 / 2 
739 


000 


888 


. 


. 


. 


61711 


. 


: 


: 


rom 


8 


0 


. 


. 


617 /2 
617 / 3 
466 
304 / 1 
304 /2 


. 


. 


. 


00 


88 


. 


m 


. 


Pangoli . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


301 
299 
300 : 
294 


. 


. 


. 


293 / 1 
293 / 2 


. 


292 
291 


. 


horsh888888888 


000000000000000 


. 


. 


298 


296 


.. 


S10 


. 


. 


. 


282 
281 
280 
279 


. 


. 


[No. 29 ( 7) / 88- IOC ) 
8 . 0 . 2018. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . NO. 1264 dated 25th March 1968 under sub - section 
(( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ), the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the 
Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notifcation 
for the purpose of laying pipelines. 

And whereas the Competent Authority has, under sub- section ( 1) of section 6 of 
the sald Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And whereas, the Central Government has , after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule appended 
to this notification . 

Now , whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user in the said lands specifed in the schedule appended to this notifcation is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section (4 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs that the right of 
user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Goverment, vest on 
this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commis 
sion free from all encumbrances . 


2724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


w 


(LAYING PIPELINE FROM G .G . S. I. TO O . T. SABARMATI) 

SCHEDULE 


State 


Gujrat 


Distt. Mohsana 


Taluka 


Kalol 


Village 


S. No. 


Hector 


Arc ] 


P . Are 


Sertha . 


. 


. 


. 


809 . 
805 
804 


05 . 


802 
801 
798 / 1 
798 / 2 
799 . 
719 


0000000000 


[No. 20 / 3 / 67 -Prod / TOC (1). J 
. 0 . 2019 . — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No . 1265 dated 25th March 1968 under sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Plpelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act , 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared it intention to acquire the 
Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification 
for the purpose of laying pipelines. 

And whereas the Competent Authority has, under sub -section ( 1) of section o 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And whereas the Central Government has, after considering the said report , 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule appended 
to this notification . 

Now , whereas , In exercise of the powers conterred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Bection 6 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, Vest 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of that Section , the Central Government directs that the right of 
ust in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
on this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Com 
mission free from all encumbrances . 

(LAYING PIPELINE FROM G .G .S.I. TO O . T , SABARMATI) 


SHHEDULE 


State : GUJARAT 


Dlatt. • AHMEDABAD 


Tal. : GHANDHINAGAR 


Village 


S. No. 


Hector 


Are . 


P . Are . 


Dantali 


. 


. 


. V. P . Road Dentali . 

V. , Road . Dentali : 
4 / 1 . 


OOOOOOOO 


GLI 


[No . 20 / 3 / 87 -Prod ./ IOC ( 11 ),] 
R . N . CHOPRA , Under Secy . 


fzo .8( 41)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2725 


( Department of Petroleum ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
$ . O . 2020 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 - G of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951 ), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following order to amend the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) Order , 
1968 namely : 

1. This Order may be called the Ethyl Alcohol ( Price Control) Amendment 
Order, 1968 

2. In the Ethyl Alcohol (Price Control) Order , 1966, after clause 3 , the following 
clause shall be inserted , namely : -- 
" 3 . A . Authority to determine the additional charges .- ( 1 ) In case any doubt or 

dispute arises as regards the additional charges leviable under clause 
3 , It shall be decided by the Excise Commissioner of the State where 

the particular distillery is located . 
( 2 ) Before taking the decision referred to in sub - clause ( 1 ) , the Excise Com 

missioner shall given adequate opportunity to the parties concerned to 

present their case . 
( 3 ) Thc Excise Commissioner shall, for the purpose of determining the addi 

tional charges , have power to call upon the seller and the buyer to 
furnish such documentary evidence as may be considered necessary by 
him for the purpose." 

[No. 4 (3 ) / 88 / Ch . I.] 
R . J . BHOJWANI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH FAMILY PLANNING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

( Department of Health and Urban Development ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April , 1968 
S . O . 2021, — The following draft of rules further to amend the Drugs and Cosme 
tics Rules , 1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make , after consultation 
with the Drugs Technical Advisory , Board , in exercise of the powers . conferred 
by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ) , is publish 
ed , as required by the said sections for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby, given that the said draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 15th July , 1968, 

( 2 ) Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government 

Draft Rules 
1 . These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics ( Amendment) Rules , 1968. 
2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 , in rule 43 - A 

( 1 ) the entry " Castle Rock Railway Station . 

In respect of drugs imported by rall across the fronties with Goa" 
shall be omitted : 

(2 ) For the entry , 

"Madras, Calcutta , Bombay and Cochin 
In respect of Drugs Imported by sea into India " the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : 

Madras, Calcutta , Bombay , Cochin and Goa 
In respect of drugs imported by sea into India . 


[No. F . 1 - 17 / 67 - D . ] 
AMAR NATH VARMA, Under Secy , 


2726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II - 


(Department of Health ) 
New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 


8 . 0 . 2022 , - Whereas in pursuance of clausę (b ) of sub - section ( 1) of section 3 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) the persons specificd in column I { the table below 
have been elected by themembers of the Senate or Court , as the case may be , of the Universities 
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table with effect from the dates 
shown against them in column 3 of the said table . 


TADLB 


Particular of Member 


Date of 


election 


Name of the Uni- 
versity which 
elected him 


1 . Dr. Inderjit Singh , Professor of Physiology , Agra University 13th November, 1967 . 

S . N . Medical College , Agra ( vice Dr. S . P . 

Srivastava ). 
2 . Dr. J.N . Pohowalla , Professor and Head of the University of Indore 14th March , 1968, 

Department of Paediatrics , M . G . M . Medical 
College , Indore (vice Dr. B . B . Ohri). 


27th March , 1968 . 


3 . Dr. V . Ramachandra Rao , Principal & Professor Sri Venkateswara 

of Anatomy, S . V . Medical College, Tirupati. University . 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub -section (1 ) of section 3 , of the said Act , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Govern 


ment of Indiain the late Ministry of Health No 5 - 13 /59 -MI, dated the gth January , 1960 , 
namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading " Blected under clauso (b ) of sub- section ( 1) of 
section 3 " . 

(1) for the entry against serlal No . 6 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

Dr. Inderjit Singh , 
Professor of Physiology , S . N . Medical College , 

Agra " . 
( 11 ) for the entry against serial No. 33 , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" Dr. J. N . Pohowalla , 
Professor and Head of the Department of Paediatrics, M . G . M . Medical College, 
Indore " . 


( ) after serial number 37 and the entry relating thereto, the following serial 

number and entry shall be inserted , namely : 
" 38 . Dr, V . Ramachandra Rao , Principal and Professor of Anatomy s . V . 
Medical College , Tirupati. " 

(No. F . 4 - 26 / 87 -MPT.) 


S . O . 2023. - Whercas the University of Indore , Indore , has in pursuance of the 
provisions of clause ( d ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) , elected 
Dr. I. P . Agarwal, Dean , Faculty of Medicine of the University of Indore and Dean , 
M .G . M . Medical College , Indore, to be a member of the Dental Council of India with 
eflect froin the 14th March , 1968 vice Dr. B . B . Ohri who has ceased to be a member 
by virtue of the provisions of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 6 of the said Act; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the notifcation of the 


SEC. 3 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2727 


Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. F . 3-2 / 62 -MII; dated the 
17th October , 1962 , namely : 

In the said notifcation , under the heading " Elected under clause ( d ) of section 
3 " , for the existing entry against serial No. 12 , the following entry shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 
" Dr. I. P . Agarwal, Dean , Faculty of Medicinc of the University of Indore 
and Dean , M . G . M . Medical College , Indorc." 

[No. F . 3 -3 / 67 -MPT. ) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2024 . Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health and 
Family Planning (Department of Health ) has, by notification No. 19 - 23 / 67-MPT 
dated the 23rd November , 1967, made, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) , of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , 
recognised the medical qualification " L . M . & S ” (University of Madrid , Spain ) for 
the purposes of the gald Act ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central 
Government hereby specifles the period of two years with effect from the date 
of issue of this order or so long as Dr. Costilla Barrero Enedina who possesses the 
said quallAcation , continues to be employed with the St. Vincent s Provincial House , 
Shant Ashram , Berhampur (Ganjam District ), to which she is attached for the 
time being for the purposes of teaching , research or charitable work , whichever 
18 shorter , as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. Costilla 
Barrero Enedina shall be limited subject to the condition that the said doctor 
continues to be enrolled as medical practitioner for the said period in accordance 
with the law regulating the registration of medical practitioners in her country . 

( NO . F . 19 -14 /68-MPT.] 
New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 2028 . - Whereas the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health 
has , by notification No . 18 - 1 / 05 -MPT dated the 14th June, 1965 made, in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification " M . D ." 
granted by the University of Alberta, Canada for the purposes of the said Act; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect from 
the date of issue of this order or so long as Dr. David Joseph Fairholm who 
possesses the said qualification , continues to work in the Herbertpur Christian 
Hospital P . O . Herbertpur, Distt. Dehra Dun , U . P . to which he is attached for the 
time being for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable work , whichever 
is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. David 
Joseph Fairholm shall be limited subject to the condition that the said doctor 
continues to be enrolled as medical practitioner for the said period in accordance 
with the law regulating the registration of medical practitioners in his country . 

[No. F . 19 -13 /68 -MPT.) 
L . K . MURTHY, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
8 . 0 . 2026 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 
of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby 
Appoints with effect from the 13th May, 1968 , Shri Govind H . Seth , Additional 


2728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1988 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


Director general of Shipping , Directorate General of Shipping , Bombay to be the 
Tlrecior General of Shipping vice Shri K , C . Madappa granted leave. 

[No. 1-MA ( 11) / 88 . 
B . B . LAL , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 29th / 31st May 1968 
S . O . 2027. - In exercise of the power conferred by Sub - Section (6 ) of Section 
3 of the Electricity ( Supply ) Act, 1948 , the Central Electricity Authority hereby 
appoints Shri S . L . Jain , Assistant Director, CW & PC ( PW ) , as Assistant Director, 
Northern Regional Electricity Board , Ghaziabad, with effect from the forenoon 
of the 18th May, 1968 until further orders . 

[No. 21 / 7 /66 -Adm .I. ] 
M . M , DHAWAN , Under Secy . 

for Chairman , C . E . A . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 


( Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2028. - The following draft rules further to amend the Curry Powder 
Grading and Marking Rules , 1950 , which the Central Government proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grad 
ing and Marking ) Act, 1937 are published as required by the said section for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 1st July 1968 . 

Any objections and suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Rules 
1 . These rules may be called the Curry Powder Grading and Marking (Amend 
ment) Rules , 1968. 

2 . In the Curry Powder Grading and Markļng Rules, 1956 , 
( a ) for rules 5 and 6 , the following rules shall be substituted , namely : 
" 5 . Grade Designation Marks. -- ( 1 ) The grade designation marks in the case 

of curry powder packed in ploythene or paper bags shall consist of 
a design incorporating the number of Certificate of Authorisation , 
the word Agmark and the grade approved by the Agricultural Mar 

keting Adviser . 
( 2 ) The grade designation mark in the case of curry powder packed in ting 

or glass containers shall consist of a paste - on label, specifying the 
grade designation and bearing the design of a map of India with the 

word Agmark . 
( 3 ) The grade designation mark in the case of curry powder packed in con 

tainers of Jute or cloth as also in containers in which sealed ploythene 
bags of graded curry powder are packed shall consist of a label, speci 
fying the grade designation and bearing the design ( consisting of an 
outline map of India with the word Agmark and the figure of the 
rising sun , with the words Produce of India and Flora " 

resembling the one as set out in Schedule I. 
6 . Method of Marking - - ( 1 ) The grade designation mark shall be securely 

affixed to or printed on each container in a manner approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser , 


ca. 8f11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2729 


( 2 ) In addition to the above , the following particulars shall also be clearly 

and Indelibly marked on each container namely : 
( a ) Date of packing in code or plain letters . 
(b ) Lot number, and 

( c ) Net weight. 
( 3 ) An authorised packer may , after obtaining the prior approval of the 

Agricultural Marketing Adviser , mark his private trade mark on a 
container , in a manner approved by the said officer , provided that the 
private trade mark does not represent a quality or grade different 
from that indicated by the grade designation mark affixed to or printed 

on the container in accordance with the rules ." 
( b ) In rule 7, for sub -rule (1 ) the following sub -rule shall be substituted , 
namely 
" ( 1 ) Only new and clean tins, bottles and polythene or jute or cloth con 

tainers or paper bags properly lined with suitable material shall be 
used for packing curry powder and these shall be closed and sealed 
in a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the 
Government of India ." 

[No. F . 13 -20 / 87-AM - ] 


$ . 0 . 2029 . - In pursuance of clause ( f ) of section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading & Marking ) Act, 1937 , Grading and Marking Rules , 1937, the Central 
Government hereby Axes with effect from the date of publication of this notifica 
tion , the charges for Agmark labels to be affixed to packages of Arecanuts at Rs. 5 / 
per tonne i. e ., 50 paise per quintal. 

[No. 13 - 8 / 68-LA ) 

V . S . NIGAM , Under Secy . 
(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 
S . O . 2030 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Gov . 
ernment hereby makes the following Order to amend the Arable Land ( Utilisation 
for Food Crops) Order, 1963, namely : 

1. This Order may be called the Arable Land (Utilisation for Food Corpe) 
Amendment Order , 1968. 

2 . In the Arable Land (Utilisation for Food Corps ) Orders, 1963 , for the proviso 
to sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 3 , the following proviso shall be substituted , namely : 
" Provided that the Collector shall not issue such notice in respect of any land ; 
( a ) which is used and maintained as grass land and is classified as such 

in the revenue records; and 
( b ) which has been continuously used as grass land for a period of not less 

than four years Immediately preceding the date of notice , whether 

or not it was recorded as such in the revenue records; 
Provided further that the Collector shall not issue such notice in respect of 
any land which , under any law for the time being in force, is reserved in the year 
immediately proceeding the date of the notice for any of the folowing purposes , 
namely 

( a ) pasture land ; 
(b ) threashing floor ; 
( c ) Irrigation tank ; or 

( d ) any other public purpose . 
Explanation : - For the purposes of this clause " Grass land " means any land in 
the private ownership of an individual in which grass or fodder trees or both 
are grown . 

[No. 20 -59 /65-Lands ( M ) . ) 
SARAN SINGH , Jt. Secy . 


2730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[ PART II 


( Department of Cooperation ) 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1968 


S . O . 2031. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 - B of the Multi 
Unit Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1942 ) and in supersession of the Min 
istry of Food , Agriculture , Community Development and Cooperation ( Departnient 
of Cooperation ) Notification No. 7 - 13 /66 - Crcdit, dated the 29th July , 1967, tho 
Central Government hereby directs that all powers or guthority exerciseable by 
the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies under the said Act shall also be 
exerciseable by Shri R . J . Kadam , Divisional Joint Registrar of Cooperative So 
cieties , Bombay Division , Bombay , in respect oť the Multi-unit Cooperative Socle 
ties registered in the State of Maharashtra . 


[No. 7 -4 /88 -Credit .) 


K . S. MATHEW , Under Secy . 


(Departmont of Food ) 


New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 


S . O . 2032 .. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 42 of the Warehousing 
Corporations Act , 1962 ( 58 of 1962 ) , the Central Warehousing Corporation , with 
the previous sanctions of the Central Government, hereby makes the following 
regulations further to amend the Central Warehousing Corporation (Staff ) Regu 
lations , 1986 , namely : 


1. These regulations may be called the Central Warehousing Corporation 
( Staff ) Amendment Regulations, 1968 . 


2 . In Appendix III of the Central Warehousing Corporation ( Staff ) Regula 
tions, 1968 : 
( a ) under the heading “ Class I ” , after serial number 9 and the entries 

relating thereto , the following serial number and entries shall be 

Inserted , namely : 
" 9A . Senior Accounts Officcr . . . . Rs. 700 — 50 _ - 1250 ." ; 


(b ) under the heading " Class I" , after serial number 12 and the entries 

relating thereto , the following serial number and entries shall be 

inserted , namely : 
" 13. Senior Administrative Officer . .. .. . . Rs. 400 — 40 – 800 — 50 – 950 ." 


( c ) under the heading " Class III , after serial number 15 and the entries 

relating thereto , the following serial number and entries shall be 

inserted , namely : 
" 15A . Staff Car Driver (Grade I) . . . . Rs. 150 — 5 - - 175 - - 0 – 205 ." . 


wa under the heading " Class III " for serial number 16 and the entries 

relating thereto , the following serial number and entries shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" 16 . Staff Car Driver (Grade II ) - - Rs. 110 - 3 _ 131 – 4 – 155 -- EB -— 4 — 175 — 

5 – 180." 


[No. F . 26 - 7 / 67 - SG . II. ] 


DEVAKI NANDAN GOYAL , Under Secy . 


Sec. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2731 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & METALS 

( Department of Mincg & Metals) 
New Delhi, the 2511: Mag 1968 


S . O , 2033 - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the Late Ministry 
of Mines & Metals S . O . NO. 3406 dated the 3rd November , 1966 , urides sub -acction ( 1) of section 
7 of the Coal Bearing Area (Acquisitio n and Development ) Act, 1957 ( 20 of 1957), the Central 
Government gave notice of its into ntion to acquire the lands and rights in the locality specified 
in the Schedule appended to that notification ; 

And Whereas the competent authority in pursuance of secrion 8 of the said Act has made 
his report to the Central Government ; 

And Whereas the Central Government after considering the report and after consulting . 
the Government of Bihar is satisfied that , 

( a ) The lands measuring 120 . 00 acres ( approximately ) or 48 . 60 hectares (approximately 

described in Schedule A appended hereto ; and 
(b ) the rights to minc, quarry , bore , dig and search for , win , work and carry away minerals 

in the lands measuring III9 : 00 acres (approximately ) or 451 . 58 , hectares (approxi 

mately described in the Schedule B appended hereto ; 
should be acquired . 

Now , Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 
of the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the land measuring 12or CO ECIC 
( approximately ) or 48 .60 hectares ( approximately ) described in the Said Schedule A and the 
rights to mine, quarry bore , dig and search for, win , work and carry away minerals in the least 
meaşuring 1115 . 00 acres (approximately ) or 451. 58 hectares ( approximately ) described in the 
gajd Schedule B , are hereby acquired . 

The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected in the Office of the Depu 
Commissioner , Dhanbad (Bihar ) or in the Ofice of the Coal Controller , I Council House. 
Street, Calcutta or in the Office of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited (Revenue 
Section ) , Darbhanga House : Ranchi, 


SCHEDULB - A 
Monidih Block - Extension 
Sub- Block - I 
Jharia Coalfield 

Drg . No . Rev ./ 27167 
Dated 16 - 9 -67 . 


All Rights 


( showing lands acquired ) 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
number 


District 


Area 


Serial 
number 


Remarks 


I Karitunr 
2 Bardubhi 
3 Jatudil 


Jharia 
Jharia 
Jharia 


89 

92 
104 


Dhanbad 
Dhanbad 
Dhanbad 


Part . 
Part. 


Part. 


Total arca : 120 . 00 acres (approximately ) 

OR : 48 .60 Hectares (approximately) 


Plot numbers acquired in villageKaritanr : 

250 + 1 ), 251(P ), 252 (P ), 300 (1 ), 304 (P ) 305 (1 , 306, 307 , 308 ( "), 309(P ), 310 , 311(P ), und 
329( 1 ) . 


2732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 . 1968 / J YAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


Plot numbers acquired in village Bardubhi. 


613(P ),614 (P ), 665 (P ), 667( P ), 687 (P ), 690 ( P ), 691(P ), 703( P ), 710 (P ), 714 ( P ), 715 (P ), 719 (1 ) , 
723 ( P ), 724 (P ) , 729 , 726 ( P ), 717 ( P ), 728 ( P ), 730 ( P ), 731 ( P ), 732 ( P ) ,733 to 738 , 739 ( P ), 740 , 
" 741, 742, 743 , 744 (P ), 745 (P ), 746 ( P ), 747 (P ), 748 to 786 , 787 (P ), 788 (P ), 789 (P ), 790 (P ), 791, 
792 ( P ), 793 ( P ) , 794 ( P ) , 798 (P ), 889 ( P ) , 890 ( P ), 891 ( P ), 892 ( P ), 893 ( P ) , 894 to 897, 898 (P ), 899 ( P ), 
900 ( P ), 901 to 915, 916 ( P ), 917 , 918 (P ), 922 (P ), 923(P ), 924 (P ), 925 (P ), 926 (P ), 029 ( P ), 930 (P ), 931, 
932 ( P ), 933( P ), 934 (P ), 940 (P ), 972 (P ). 


Plot numbers acquired in village Jatudih : 

I (P ), 541(P ), 563(P ), 564 (P ). 
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 
A - B . 

Line passes through plot numbers 794, 793, 792, 790 , 789, 790 , 789, 788 
787 , 798 , 889 , 890 , 891, 892 , 893 , 892, 898 , 899 , 900 in village Bardubhi, 
through plot numbers 329 , 250 , 251, 252 , 300 in village Karitanr and meets 

at point B , 
B - C . . . Line passes through plot numbers 300, 305, 304 , 308, 309 , 311 , 329, in village 

Kartanr, through plot numbers 940 , 934 , 933 , 932 , 930 , 929, 926 , 925 , 
924, 923 , 922 , 923 , 918 , 916 , 747 , 746 , 747, 746 , 745 and 744 in village 

Bardubhi and meets at point C . 
C -D . , 

, Line passes through plot numbers 744, 665 in village Bardubhi, through plot 

numbers J , 564, 563 , and 541 in village Jatudili and meets at point D . 
D -E . . . Line passes through plot numbers 941 and 1 in village Jatudih , through plot 

numbers 665 and 667 in village Bardubhi (which is also the part common 
boundary of Central Jharia Block B acquired u /s 9 vide s . o . No . 2565 

dated 9 - 8 -65 and meets at point E . 
· Linc passes through plot numbers 667, 687 , 667 , 690 , 691, 710 , 714, 715 , 

719 and 714 in village Bardubli and meets at point F . 
T - A . . . Line passes through plot numbers 744 , 723 , 724, 726 , 727 , 728, 703 , 730 , 

731, 732 , 739, 731, 614 , 972, 613 , and 794 , in village Bardubhi and meets 
at starting point A . 


SCHEDULE- B 


Sub - Block - I1 


Drg . No. REY /27 /67 
dated 16 - 9 -67 


" Mining Rights " 


(showing lands where rights to 
mine , quarry , ore , dig and search 
for , win , work & carry away mine 
rals arc acquired ) . 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
number 


District 


Arca 


Serial 
number 


Remarks 


I Bardubhi 


Jharia 


92 


Dhanbad 


Part . 


Total area : 38 . 00 acres (approximately ) 

OR : 15 :39 Hectares (approximately) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Bardubhi : 

578 ( P ), 576 (P ) , 577 ( P ), 578 (P ), 579 (P ) 580 ( P ), 581 (P ), 584 (P ) , 585 (P ), 609 (P ) , 610 ( P ), 611, 
612 , 613 (P ), 614 (P ), 615 to 636 , 637 (P ), 639 (P ), 667 (P ), 668 (P ), 669( P ), 671(P ) , 673(P ), 674 (P ), 
675 to 686 , 687 (P ), 688 , 689 , 690 (P ), 691( P ), 692 to 702, 703(P ), 704 to 709 710 ( P ), 711 , 

712 , 713, 714 (P ), 715 (P ), 716 (P ), 217: 718719 (P ), 720, 721, 722, 723 (P ), 724 (P ), 726 (P ), 727(P ) , 
1728 (P ), 729, 730 (P ), 731 (P ), 732(P ), 739 (P ), 744(P ), 794 (P ), 972 (P ). 


S C. 3(!!)] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1840 


2733 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 
G - A . . . Line pages through plot numbers $ 80 , 381, 584 , 585 , 609 , 610 , 613 and 794 

in village Bardubhi and meets at point A . 
A - F . . . Line through plot numbers 794, 613 , 972, 614 , 731 , 739 , 732 , 731, 730 , 703, 

728 , 727 , 726 , 724, 723 and 744 in village Bardubhiand meets at point F . 
F - E . . . Line passes through plot numbers 744, 719, 715, 714 , 710 , 691, 690 , 667, 687, 

and 667 in village Bardubhi and meets at point E . 
E - G . , . Line passes through plot numbers 667 , 669, 668 , 669 , 674 . 671, 674 , 673, 637, 

639 , 577, 576 , 579 , 573 and 38o in village Bardubhi (which is also part 
common boundary of Central Jharia Block B acquired u /s 9 of the Coal . 
Act vide S . O . 2565 dated 9 -8 -65) and meets at point G . 

Sub - Block II 
Mining Rights . 


Serial 
number 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
number 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


Sharia 


89 


Dhanbad 


Part 


91 


92 


99 


I, Karitan 
2 . Majhiladi 

or Jogidi 
3 Bardubhi 
4 . phutaha 
5 . Rajasbera 
6 . Sabaldih 
7 . Jatudih 
8 , Gangadih 
9 . Janna 


TOZ 
103 
104 


105 


106 


Total area : 1077 . 00 acres ( approximately ) 

OR : 436 . 19 hectares approximately ) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Karitanr 

300 (P ), 301 (P ), 302 , 303 , 304 (P ), 305 (P ), 308 (P ), 309 (P ), 311 (P ), 312 to 320 , 321 (P ). 
322, 323 , 324 , 329CP ). 
Plot numbers acquired in village Majhiladi or fogidi 

344 (P ), 589 (P ), 592 to 596 , 597 (P ), 598 (P ), 599 , 600 , 601 ( P ), 602 (P ), 603 (P ), 607 (P ) . . 
Plot numbers acquired in village Rardubhi 

665 (P ), 744 (P ), 745 (P ), 746 (P , 747 (P ), 910 ( P ), 918 ( P ), 919 to 921 , 922 (P ), 923 (P ), - 
924 ( P ) , 925 ( P ), 926 ( P ), 927, 928, 929 (P ) , 930 (P ) , 932 ( P ) , 933 (P ) , 934 (P ), 935 to 939 , 940 ( P ), 
941 to 963. 
Plot numbers acquired in village Phutala 

298 ( P ), 496 ( P ), 505 (P ), 508 ( P ), 509 (P ), 510 (P ), 511 (P ), 512 (P ), 515 (P ) , 516 to 524 , 525 ( L ), 
526 (P ), 527 , 528 (P ) , 529 to 540 , 541 ( P ), 542 to 551 , 552 ( P ), 553, 554 , 555 ( P ), 556 (P ), 557 (P ), 
558, 559 (P ), 560 (P ), 563 (P ) , 564 (P ), 641 (P ), 642 (P ), 643, 644 (P ), 645 to 665, 666 (P ), 670 (P ) 
671 (B ), 672 (P ), 673 ( ), 674 , 675, 676 ( P ), 677 to 685, 686 (P ), 687 (P ), 688 (P ), 690 (P ), 695 (P ), 
725, 731 , 732 . 
Plot numbers acquired in village Rajasbera 

16 (P ), 17 (P ), 18 (P ), 19 to 30 , 31 (P ), 33 (P ), 34 (P ), 35 to 152, 153 (P ), 154 (P ), 156 (P ), , 
157 (P ), 158 , 159 (P ) , 160 (P ) , 161 to 164 , 165 ( P ) , 172 ( P ), 173, 174 , 175 (P ), 177 (P ), 178 to 200 , 
201 ( P ), 202 (P ), 203 (P ), 204 ( P ) , 209 (P ), 211 (P ), 242 (P ) , 243 (P ) , 244 to 247 , 248 (P ), 249 to - 
278 , 280 (P ), 281, 282 (P ), 286 (P ). 
Plot numbers acquired in village Sabaldih 1 

64 (P ), 200 (P ), 201 (P ), 202, 203 (P ), 249 (P ), 250 (P ), 251 (P ), 255 (P ), 256 to 272 , 273 (P ), 
74 ( P ), 275 to 285. 


2734 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part II 


Plot numbors acquired in village Jatudih 

I (P ), 13 (P ), 44 (P ), 103 (P ), 104 (P ), 107 ( P ) , 104 (P ) , 115 ( P ), 116 ( P ), 117 to 126 , 127 (P ), 
128 ( P ) , 129 ( P ), 130 ( P ) , 136 ( P ), 149 ( P ) , 157 ( P ) , 158 to 163, 164 ( P ), 165 ( P ) , 166 (P ), 172 ( P ), 
173 ( P ), 174 ( P ) , to 247, 253 ( P ), 254 to 537 , 538 (P ), 539 (P ), 540 ( P ) , 541 ( P ), 542 ( P ) to $62, 
563 (P ), 564 (P ), 565 to 651 , 653 , 654, 655 . 
Plot numbers acquired in village Gansadih 

8 tº 166 , 168 . 
Plot numbers acquired in village Jarma 

I to 567 . 
Boundary Description 


B - H 


, 


H - I . 


. 


I- J - 


. 


J - K - L 


. 


L - M - N - O . 


Line passes through plot numbers 300 , 301, 321 in village Karitanr, through 

plot numbers 589 , 344 , 589, 597 , 598 , 601, 602 , 603, and 607 in village 

Majhiladi or Jogidi and meets at point H . 
. Line passes along the part left bank of Rivor Damodar in villages Mojhiladi 

or Jogidi, Bardubhi, Jarudih , Gangadih and Jarma and meets at point I 
Line passes along the Eastern Boundary of village Jarma and part Eastern 

Boundary of Village Rajasbera and meets at point J . 
. Linc pass through plot numbers 243 , 241, 209, 282 , 248 , 280 , 154 , 153 , 154 , 

157 , 156 , 159, 160 , 165 , 172 , 175, 177, 204 , 203 , 202 in villago Rajasbora , 
through plot numbers 695 , 690 , 695 in village Phutaha again through 
plotnumbers 202 , 201, 202 in village Rajasbera again through plot numbers 
695, 686 , 687, 688, 672, 670 , 671 , 676 , 666 , 541 , 496 , 526 , 528, 526 , 525, 

508 , 509 , 510 , SII, 5o5 and 298 in village Phuraha and moet at point L . 
. Lines pass through plot numbers 298 , 511, 512 , 515 , along the part eastern 

boundary of plot No. 552 , through plot numbers 552 , 564, 563 , 560 , 559 , 
557 , 556 , 555 , 641, 642 , 644 , in village Phutaha , through plot numbers 
16 , 17 , 18 , 286 , 31 , 33 , 34 , in village Rajashera and through plot numbers 
201, 200 , 203 . 255 , 251 , 249 , 250 in village Sabaldih (which is also part 
common boundary of Central Jharia Block acquired u /s 9 vide S . O . No. 

2761 dated 20 - 9 - 1963 ) andmeet at point O . 
Lincs pass through plot numbers 250 , 249 , 273, 274 , 64 , in village Sabaldih ,, 

through plot numbers 253 , 44 , 157 , 149 , 166 , 165, 164 , 172 , 173 , 136 , 
127, 128, 129, 130, 103, 104 , 107 , 116 , 538 , 116 , 115 , 114 , 538, 540, 539 , 
541, 13 , 541, in village Jatudih (which is part common boundary of Central 
Sharia - Extn . acquired uls 9 vide S . O . No. 363 dated 20 - 1964) and meet 

at point R . 
Line passes through plot numbers 541 in village Jatudih (which is part common 

boundary of Central Jharia Block B acquired u / s vide 9 S . O . No , 2565 

dated 9 - 8 -65) and meets at point D , 
Lines pass through plot numbers 541 , 563, 564 , 1 , in village Jatudih , througo 

plot numbers 665, 744 , 745 , 746 , 747 , 746 , 747, 916 , 918 , 922 , 923 , 924 , 
925 , 926 , 929, 930 , 932, 933 , 934 , 940, in villago Bardubhi, through plot 
numbers 329, 311, 309, 308, 304 , 305 , and 300 in village Karitant and meet 
at starting point B . 

[No. C 2- 20 (12 )/64 .] 
M . S . K . RAMASWAMY, Dy. Secy . 


O - P - Q - R 


. 


TR - D . 


D - C - B 


, 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2034 / IDRA / 18G / 68. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 
18G and 25 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 Of 1951 ) , 
and all other powers enabling it in that behalf , the Central Goverament hereby 
makes the following Order further to amend the Cement Control Order, 1967: 
1 . This Order may be called thc Cement Control ( Fourth Amendment ) 

Order , 1968 


Sxo. 8 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2735 


2 . In the Cement Control Order , 1967 , Sor clause 9 , the following clarise shall 

___ be substituted , namely : 
" 9 . Payments to Cement Regulation Account. - -Every producer shall, in respect 
of each transaction by way of sale of cement ellected by him , pay within one 
month of the close of the month in which sales take place , to the Controller, an 
amount equivalent to the amount, if any, by which free on rail destination price 
of such cement released by him exceeds the aggregate of the following amounts , 
namely : 
(1 ) the ex - factory price of such cement calculated in accordance with the 

rates specified in the Schedule ; 
( 11 ) a selling agency commission calculated at the rate of Rs. 1 . 25 per tonne ; 
(iii ) the excise duty paid thereon; and 
( iv ) in the case of packed cement, the charges lixed by the Central Govern 

ment in respect of the packing or the containers under the Arst 

proviso to clause 8 : 
Provided that the expenditure incurred by the producer on freight by the 
cheapest mode of transport or where any other mode of transport has been 
specified by the Central Government under 4 , by such mode of transport in 
respect of such transactions shall be reimbursed to the producer by the Controller 
from out of the Cement Regulation Account referred to in clause Il. 

Provided further that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to the 
cement moved out of the factories prior to the 1st day of January 1968 but sold 
after that date " , 

[ No F . 1- 32 / 67 - Cem. Vol. II. ] 
K . I VIDYASAGAR. Jt Secy . 


प्रौद्योगिक विका । तथा सनवाय- कार्य मंत्रालय 
( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) 

प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 27 मई, 1968 
एस० ओ० 2035 / मार०डी०पार०ए० /18जी/ 68 - - उद्योग (विकास तथा वियमन ) 
मधिनियम , 1951 ( 1951 का 65 ) की धारा 18छ और धारा 25 के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
तथा इस सम्बन्ध में उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद् द्वारा सीमेंट नियन्त्रण प्रादेश , 1967 में और आगे संशोधन करने के लिए 
निम्नलिखित आदेश जारी करती है :--- 


1 . इस आदेश को सीमेंट नियन्त्रण ( चौथा संशोधन ) आदेश , 1968 कहा जायगा । 
2. सीमेंट नियन्त्रण आदेश , 1967 में खण्ड 9 के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित रखा 

जाए, अर्थात् : 
9. सीमेट नियमन खाते में भुगतान 

प्रत्येक उत्पादक अपने द्वारा सीमेंट की बिक्री सम्बन्धी प्रत्येक सौदे के सम्बन्ध में 
ऐसे सीमेंट को जारी करने की तारीख से एक मास के अन्दर नियन्त्रक को उस राशि के 
बराबर राशि , यदि कोई हो , का भुगतान करेगा जो रेल द्वारा निशुल्क गतव्य स्थान के 
सीमेंट के मूल्य तथा निम्नलिखित राशियों से अधिक हो , अर्थात् : - - 

( 1 ) इस प्रकार के सीमेंट का कारखाने से चलते समय का मूल्य जो तालिका 

में निर्दिष्ट दरों के अनुसार निकाला गया हो ; 
( 2 ) बिक्री एजेंसी कमीशन जो 1. 25 रु० प्रति मीट्रिक टन की दर से निकन्ने 


2736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA I8. 1830 


[ PART LI --- 


( 3 ) उस पर दिया गया उत्पादन शल्क ; और 
( 4 ) पैक किए हुए सीमेंट के मामले में खण्ड 8 के प्रथम परन्तुक के अन्तर्गत 

केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा पैकिंग या कन्टेनरों के बारे में निश्चित किये गये 

प्रभार : 
बशर्ते कि उत्पादक द्वारा परिवहन के सबसे सस्ते साधन अथवा जहां अन्य परिवहन 
का कोई अन्य साधन , जिसका केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा खण्ड 4 के अन्तर्गत उल्लेख किया गया हो 
परिवहन के ऐसे साधन पर ऐसे सौदे के बारे में किए गए व्यय की सीमेंट नियमन खात में 
से , जिसका उल्लेख खण्ड 11 में किया गया है, नियन्त्रक प्रतिपूर्ति करेगा । 

और यह भी कि इस खण्ड में जो कुछ पणित है यह उस सीमेंट पर लागू नहीं होगा 
पो 1 जनवरी, 1968 से पूर्व कारखानों के बाहर ले जाया जा चुका हो किन्तु बेचा उस 
तारीख के बाद गया हो । 

[ स० एफ० 1/ 32 / 67/ सीमेंट खण्ड 2.] 

के० आई० विद्यासागर , संयुक्त सधिक 


(Dopartment of IndustrialDevolopment) 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 


New Delhi, the 20th May 1968 


S . O . 2036 . - - Io purguanceofgub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulaticr 3 ofthe Indian Standard 
Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifics that the Indian Standard (s ), particulars ofwhich are given in the Schedulc hereto annexed . 
have been established during the period I to 15 May 1968 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No. 


Briaf Particulars 


No . and Title of the Indian INo. and Title of the Indian 
Standard Established Standard or Standards, it 

any , superseded by the 

new Indian Standard 


( 3 ) 


I 


IS :419 - 1967 Specification 

for putty , for use on win- 
dow frames first revision ) 


(i) IS :419 - 1953 Specifica - 
tion for putty, for use on 

wooden frames , and 
(ii ) IS :420 - 1953 Specifica 

tion for putty , for use on 
metal frames. 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the me 
thods of sampling and test 
for putty for use in fixiog 
glass panes on wood and 
metal frames and for filling 
splits , cracks and holes in 
w od or matal. ( Price 

Rs . 2 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the re 

quirements for crow- bore 
___ and claw- bars ( Price R . . 

4 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the re 

quirements for smith s flat 
ters . (Price Rs. 3 50 ) 


2 


IS :704 - 1968 Specification 

for crow - bars and claw - 
bars ( first revision ). 


IS : 704 - 1957 Specification 
for crow- bars and claw - 
bars . 


3 


IS :846 - 1968 Specification 

for smith s flatters ( first ) 
Tevision ) 


IŞ :846 - 1956 Specification 

for smith s flatters , 


SEG. 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2737 


(1) 


( 3 ) 


TA 


4 


IS :949 - 1967 Specification 

for emergency tender for 
fire brigade use and rescuc 
tender for general pur 
poses ( first revision ) . 


IS :949 - 1959 Specification 

for emergency tender for 
fire brigade lisc , 


5 


IS : 1550 - 1967 Specification IS : 1550 - 1960 Specification 

for copper sliect and strip for copper sheet and strip 
for utensils and for gene for the manufacture of 
ral purposes ( first revision ) utensils and for the gene 

ral purposes. 


This standard lays down 

requirements regarding 
material design and con 
struction , workmanship 
and Anish , accessories and 
cquipment und acceptance 
tests of emergency tender 
for fire brigade use and 
rescue tender for general 
purposes . (l rice Rs. 6 00 ). 
This standard covers the re 
q uirements for the following 
two grades of copper shect 
and strip suitable for the 
manufacture of household 
utensils and general building 
purposes : 
( 1 ) Grade i Copper sheet 

and strip for 
pressi178 qua 

lity ; and 
(b ) Grade 2 Copper shcot 

and strip for 
hand worked 
articles and 

general pur 

· poses . 
(Price Rs. 3 .50 ). . . 
This standard covers motor 
starters and their accesyo 
ries intended for manual or 
automatic operation includ 
ing starting , accelerating and 
switching oil, of ac motors 
ofrated voltages not exceeding 
1000 volts . Ita pplies t 
rcsisters and auto -transo 
foriners when used in con . 
junction with motor 
starters , and also to motor 

switches . (Price Rs. TO - 00 ) . 
This standard covers terms 

to transmission lines for usc 
in ölçctronic and telecom 
munication equipnicnt and 
circuits, (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) . 


6 " IS : 1822- 1967 Specification IS :1822 - 1961 Specificurion 

for ac motor starters of formotor starters voliages 
voltage not exceeding up to 650 volts . 
100 ) volts ( Girst revision ). 


7 IS : 1885 ( Park XII / Svc I) 

1968 Electrotechnical vo 
cabulary Part XIII Tele 
communication Trans 
mission lines and wave 
guides Section I General 

transmission lines . 
8 IS : 3400 (Part VII) - 1967 

Methods of test for vul 
canized rubber Part VII 
Resistance to flex 
cracking, 


This standard prescribes a 
procedure for comparing 
the resistance of rubbers 
to the formation of 
cracks when subjected to 
repeated flexing or bending 
under specified conditions 
and known periods on the 
De Mattia type machines . 

(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) . 
This standard covers essential 

ratings and characteristics 
and other information to be 
specified in the case of indi 
vidual semi- conductor recui 
fier diodes. (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 


9 


IS : 3700 (Part III) - 1967 

Essential ratings and cha 
racteristics of semi- con 
ductor devices Part III 
Rectifier diodes. 


IS : 18 : 2 - 1967 shall com 


into force with cffect from 15 May , 1968 . 


2738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


(1) 


10 


IS :4246 - 1967 Specification 

for domestic gas stoves 
for use with liquified pet 
roleum goser , 


This standard pecifies con 

struction , operation . Bafety 
requirements and tests for 
domestic gas stoves Intended 
for use with liquefied petro 
leum gases at 30 g /cm gas 
inlet pressure .(Price Rs. 8 :00 ) 


11 IS :4418 - 1967 Guide for care 

labelling of textiles for 
laundering and dry - cleaning 


This standard prescribes the 

system for the care -labelling 
of textiles and textile articlo 
to afford guidance concerning 
the procautions, if any, to 
be observed in the laun 
dering or dry - cleaning of 
such articles , (Price Rs. 
2 : 30 ). 


12 IS :4427 - 1967 Grading for 

groundnut kernels for oil 
milling and for table use . 


This standard prescribes the 
methods of grading and the 
requirements for groundnut 
kcrnals for oil milling and 
for table use , along with the 
relevantmethods of sampling 
and test. (Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) . 


13 


IS :4431- 1967 Specification 
• for carbon and corbon 

manganese free - cutting 
steels . 


This standard covers the re 
quirements for carbon and 
carbon manganese free - cut 
tings teels supplied in the 
ſorin of blooms, billets and 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) . 


14 IS : 4441- 1967 Code of 

practice for use of silicate 
type chergical resistant 
mortars . 


Tl is ştandard provides recom 
mendations for the storage 
mixing and use of silicate 
type chemical resistant mor 
tars for bonding chemica 
resistant masonry units in 
order to obtain the optimum 
chetnical resistance and phy 
gical strength of the mortar. 
bars . (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 


15 IS :4464- 1967 Code of 

practice for presentation 
of drilling information 
and core description in 
foundation investigation . 


This standard gives recommen 

ded proformas for keeping 
drill records , and for pre 
scnting drilling informatio 
rclating to foundation in 
vestigations for river vallay 
projects. (Price Rs. 4 . 00 ) . 


16 


IS :4465 - 1967 Specification 

for metal heald frames for 
flat steel healds . 


This standard prescribes re 
quirements regarding shapes , 
dimensions and materials 
for metal heald frames for 
flat steel healds. (Price Rs. 
3 . 50 ). 


17 IS : 4470 - 1967 Specification 

for all -motal leasing reads 
for Wraping 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements for all -metal 
leasing recdg for use in 
cotton and silk wraping 
machines, (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) . 


Seo. $ ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2739 


18 IS :4473 - 1967 Specification 

for gas oyeng for use with 
Liqueficd petroleum ganes , 
domestic 


19 IS : 4475 - 1967 Specification 

for crane -suspended hand 
operated geared ladles for 
iron foundrics . 


20 


IS : 4476 - 1967 Specification 

for crane -suspended hand 
operated geard ladles for 
steel foundries . 


21 IS :4497 - 1968 Specification 

for 16 -mm portable sound 
and -picture cinemato 
graph projectors . 


This standard spccffies cons 
truction , operation , safety 
requirements and tests for 
domestic oveng of capacity 
not exceeding 100 dm 3 , in 
tended for uso with liguefied 
petroleum gages at 30 gg /cm 
gas inlet preggure . (Price 

Rs. 8 . 00 ). 
This standard covers tho re 
quiroments for crane 
suspended hand - operated 
geared ladles (both tapered 
and straight shell design ) 
suitable for lon foundrios . 

( Price Rs. 7 .00). 
This standard covers the re 

quirements for cranc -suspcn 
ded hand -operted geared 
ladles (of both straight and 
tapered shell dosigno) sult 
abic for stccl foundrieg which 
aregenerally supplied either : 
( a ) for bottom pouring , 
(b ) for lip -pouring , or 
(c ) with teapot spout, or 

suitable combinations 

of these . 
(Price Rs. 6 . 00 ). 
This standard lays down the 
safety and performance re 
quirements of 16 -om porta 
ble sound - and - picture 
cinematograph projectors 
with optical or magnetic 
sound systems or both . 

( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
This standard specifies the 
dimensions for depth of 
holes for studs conforming 
to IS : 1862 - 1967 . (Price 
Rs. I 50 ), 
This specification prescribes 

reguirements for acid and 
alkali-resistant rubberized 

aprons. (Price Rs . 2 50 ). 
This standard covers the in 
terchangeability dimensions 
general requirements and 
permissible errors of push 
or pull typo machine vices 
with fixed or swivel base . 

(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ). 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the me 
thods of sampling and tests 
for sodium formaldehyde 
sulphoxylate dihydrate which 
is also known commercially 
as sodium sulphoxylato for 
maldehyde . (Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) . 


22 IS :4499 - 1968 Dimensions 

for depth of holcs for 
studs. 


23 IS : 4501- 1967 Specification 

for aprons, rubberized , 
acid and alkali resistant. 


24 


IS :4502- 1968 Specification 

for machinç vices . 


35 


I $ :4505 - 1968 Specification 

for sodium formaldehyde 
sulphoxylate . 


2740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


(2) 


(4 ) 


26 


IS :4507- 1968 Specification 

for yacht ropos. 


27 IS :4508 - 1968 Specification 

for short pod single cnded 
opon jaw spannors . 


28 


IS :4509- 1968 Specification 

for shortened singlo en 
dod ring spanncro . 


This standard covers require 
ments for galvanized " and 
stainless steel wiro topes , 
and stainless steel wire 
strands for yachts . (Price 

Rs. 4 . 00 ). 
This standard covers the re 

quirements for forged , shor 
toned single ened open jaw 
spanners for general pur 

poses . (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) . 
This standard covers the re 

quirements for two types of 
forged shortened single 
ended ring spanners. (Price 

R8, 3 : 50). 
This standard specifies to 

quirements for non -auto 
matic , jacketed , pressure 
steam sterilizars of horizon 
tal cylinderical type, primari 
ly intended for omorgency 
Aterilization of unwrapped 
surgical Instruments within 
six minutes . (Price Rs. 4 .00 


29 IS : 4510 - 1968 Specification 

for horizontal cylindrical 
high speed steam stori 
lizers , pressure type , 


Copies of thosc Indian Standards are available, for sale , with the Indian Standards Institution , 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices at (i) Bombay 
Mutual Torrace, Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7 , ( it ) Third and Fourth Flcors , 5 Chowrir ghee 
Apyroach , Calcutta - 13 , (iii) Second Floor , Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 General Patters Road , 
Madras - 2 and ( iv ) 117 /418B , Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. 


[No. CMD /13:2] 


New Delhi , 22nd May 1968 
S . O 2037 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) or Regulatico 8 of ite Ir died Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulatioos, 1955 , as subse 
quently amerded , the Indian Standards Institution berety Botifies that sixty - txo licerces , particulars ofwhich are given in the Schedule bereto annexed , 
have been renewed . 


Sko.$(id)) 


THE SCHEDULE 


Licence No, ard 

date 


Pericd of Validity 
From 


Nineard Address ofite licensee Article Process covered by the 

licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


o , 


To 


(6 ) 


( 7 ) 


I CM / L - 78 

24 - 4 - 1958 


1- 5 -68 


2 CM / L -80 

24 - 4 - 1958 


1- 6- 58 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


3 CM / L - 82 

24 - 4 - 1958 


1- 5 - 68 


CM / L - 86 
24 - 4 - 1958 


| 30 - 4 -69 M /s. Crosslay and Towers Pot . Tea -chest plywood panels IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
Ltd . , Lower Circular Road , 

plywood tea - chests ( second 
Calautta - 17 

Tepision ) 
30- 4 -69 M /s. Das & Co ., 32 Chaulpatty Tea -chest plywocd parels IS : 10 -1964 Specification fo 
Road , Calcutta - 10 

plywood tea - chests (second 

Tevision ) 
30 - 4 -69 Mis . Dhubri Plywood Factory , Tea- chest plywood panels IS : 10 - 1964 Specification fo 
Dhubri ( Assam ) 

plywood tes - chests ( second 

revision ) 
30- 4 -69 M /s. SurmaMatch & Industries Tea - chest phwood panels IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd ., 35 Dept Mission 

plywood tea - chests (second 
Road , Calcutta - 23 

Tevision ) 
i 15 - 4 - 69 M /s. Shiv Scientific & Chemicals , Nitric acid , pure and analytical IS : 264 - 1950 Specification for 
55 , Industrial Estate , Agra reagent grades 

nitric acid 
( 30 - 4 - 69 M /s . P . S .G . & Sons, Charity In - Three - phase induction motors IS : 325 - 1961 Specification for 

dustrial Institute , Peelamedu , for industrialase from 1 HP to three -phase induction motors 
Coimbatore -4 IO HP 

(second revision ) 
15 - 10 -68 . M /s. All India MedicalCorpora - BHC dusting powders 

IS : 561 - 1962 Specification for 
tion , Mulji Jetha Building , 

BHC dusting powders 
185 Princess Street, Bombay-2 
15 - 4 - 69 M /s. Dr. Writer s Chocolates & Macaroni, spaghetti and Termicelli IS : 1485 - 1959 Specification for 
Canning Co., Bhayanishankar 

macaroni , spaghetti and 
Road , Dadar , Bombay - 28 

Vermicelli 


1- 5 -68 


5 


, 


16 - 4 - 68 


CM / L - 180 
30 - 3 - 1960 
CM / L - 186 
26 - 4 - 1960 


6 


1 - 5 -68 


7 CM / L -285 

28 - 3 - 1961 


16 - 4- 68 


CM / L - 288 
28 - 3 - 1961 


i 16 - 4 - 68 


2741 


2742 


( 7 ) 


9 CM .396 . 


9 CM / L - 396 

20 - 3 - 1962 


1-4-6 


1 -4 -68 


31.3 69 


IO CM . L - 397 

20 - 3 - 1962 


. 


1 - 4 -68 


11 CL- 398 

20 - 3 - 1962 


1 - 4 - 68 


12 CM / L - 399 

20 - 3 - 1962 


. 


1 -4 -68 


31- 3 -69 M /s. Hindustan Steel Limited , Structural steel(standard quality ) IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
Bhilai Steel Works, P . O . 

structural steel ( standard qua 
Bhilai- ı Dt Durg having their 

lity ) (third fcuision ) 
Regd Office at Bihar Sectt . 

Building , P . O . Hinoo , Ranchi , 
31- 3 -69 M / s . Hindustan Steel Limited , Mid steel and medium tepsile IS : 432 - 1960 Specification for 

Bhiaj Steel Works, P . O . steel bars for concrete rein mild steel and medium tensile 
Bhilai- I Dt Durg having their forcement 

steel bars and hard -drawn 
Regd Office at Bihar Sectt. 

steel Fire for concrete rein 
Building, P . O . Hinoo , Ranchi 

forcement (revised ) 
31- 3 -69 M /s . Hindustan Steel Limited , Structural steel (high tensile ) IS : 961- 1962 Specificationfor 
Bhilai Steel Works , P . O . 

structural steel ( high tensile 
Bhilai- 1 Dt. Durg having their 

(revised ) 
Regd Omice at Bihar Sectt . 

Building, P . O . Hinoo , Ranchi 
31 - 3 -69 M /s . Hindustan Steel Limited , Rivet bars for structural purposes IS : 1148 - 1964 Specification for 
Bhilai Steel Works , P . O . 

rivet bars for structural pur 
Bhilai- 1 DtDarg having their 

poses ( revised ) 
Regd Office at Bihar Sectt . 

Building , P . O . Hinoo , Ranchi 
31 - 3 - 69 M / s . Hindustan Steel Limited , High tensile revet bers for strac- IS : 1149 - 1964 Specification for 
Bhilai Steel Works , P . O . tural purposes 

high tensile rivet bars for struc 
Bhilai- 1 Dt. Durg having their 

tural purposes (revised ) 
Regd Office at Bihat Sectt . 

Building , P . O . Hinoo , Ranchi 
15 -4 -69 M /s . Modi Gas & Chemical, Stearic acid , technical, grede 3 IS : 1675- 1960 Specification for 
Modinagar, Distt Meerut 

stearicacid , technical 
[ 15-4-69 M /s. Hindustan Mineral Pro BHC dusting powders 

IS : 561 - 1962 Specification for 
ducts Co . Pvt . Ltd . , Plot No. 

BHC dusting powders ( second 
27, Manganese Depot, Sewri, 

Tevision ) 
Bombay - 15 having their Head 
Office at i Industrial Area, 

Sion , Bombay - 22 
30 - 4- 69 The Ganges Plywood Mfg. Co . Tea -chest plywood panels IS : 10- 1964 Specification for 
PvtLtd ., 35 DentMission Row 

plywood tea - chests (second 
Calcutta 

Tevision ) 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JUNE 
8 
, 
1968 
/ 
JYAISTHA 
18 
. 
1890 


I - 4 - 68 


13 CM / L - 400 

20 - 3 - 1962 


. 


16 - 4 -68 


14 CM / L - 402 

29 - 3 - 1962 
15 CM /L - 403 

2 - 4 - 1962 


. 


16-4 -68 


16 CM /L - 406 

25- 4 - 1962 


[ 
Part 
II 


I-5 -68 


. 


17 


( 1 - 5 - 68 


CM / L -473 
20 - II - 1952 


SEC.9(11)] 


30 - 4 -69 Ms. Chandra Electricals, D Single phase small AC IS : 996 - 1964 Specification for 

S 2 /638 Club Road Vara - and universal electric motors single phase snall AC and 
nasi Cantt . 

from 1 / 36 to i HP with class univesal electric motors ( re 
A insulation 

vised ). 
(it) Small three - phase induction IS : 325 -1961 Specification for 

motors of 3 / 4 HP wth class three - phase induction motors 
A insulation 

( second revision ). 
15 -4 -692 M /s . Indian Mineral Indus- BHC dusting powders ! IS : 561-1962 Specification for 
tries . Ltd . 22 / 1 Dum Dum , 

BHC dusting powders 
Road , Calcutta - 2 

(second revision ) 


* 16- 4 - 68 


18 CM / L -474 

23- 11 - 1962 


16 - 3 -68 


19 CM / L - 509 

25 - 2 - 1963 


Es 


15- 3 -69 M /s. Henley Cables Iodia PVC insulated cables of the OIS : 694 (Part I) 1964 Speci 
Limited , Hadapsar lo - following types : 

fication for PVC insulated 
dustrial Estate , Sholapur Type Voltage Conductor cables ( for voltages up to 
Road , Poona - I baving their 

Grade 

IT00V ) with copper conductors 
Registered Office at Henley 

(revised ) 
House, Ballard 
Bombay - I . 

( a ) PVC insulated 7 cables . 
O Single 250 /440 & 

(6 ) IS : 694 (Part II) 1964 Spe 
core 650 / 1100 

cification for PVC insulated 
(unshea - volts 1 Copper cabies ( for voltages up to 
thed ) 

Or 

1100V ) with aluminium con 
( H )Single 2501440 & alumini ductors ( revised ) 

wore 650 11100 m 
(PVC volts 
sheathed ) 
(7 ) Circu - 250 / 440 
lar 

Folts 
twin 
hree and 
four 
cores 
(PVC 
sheathed ) 
(1 ) Flat 250 / 440 
trin volts 

with or 
without 
carth 
conti 
muity . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18,1890 


2743 


2744 


( 5 ) 


Copper 


THEGAZETIEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


20 


CM L - 512 
28 - 2 - 1963 


( 16 - 3 - 68 


conduc 
tor 
(PVC 
shea 
thed ) 

PVC flexble cords 
( 0 ) Circular 250 / 440 
twin , volts 
three 
and four 

core 
(PVC 

only 
shea 
thed ) 
( 21 ) Twin 2501440 
twisted vols 
(unshea 

thed ) 
15 - 3 -69 Ms. Yawalka : Insecticides & DDT dusting powders 

IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for 
Chemicals , Factory Shed 

DDT dusting powders ( re 
: No. 20 , Industrial Estate , 

vised ) 
Kamptee Road , Nagpur - 4 
having their office at 
Bhagwahar Layout, Dharan 

petb , Nagpur - I 
15 - 4 -69 M /s . Weights and Measures (1) Single phase AC caçacjior (1) IS : 596 - ICE4 Specification 

Syndicate , 76 : 2 , Ichapur i start electric motors from for single phase Small AC 
Road , Howrah . 1 /6 HP to I HP 

and universal electric motors 
class A insulation 

( revised ) 
(H ) Small three - phase induc - (H ) IS : 325 - 196 ) Specification 

tion motors of 1 HP to for three - phase induction 
2 HP with class A insula motors ( second revision ) 

tion . I 
30 -4 - 69 Mís . Hajipur Plywood Factory Tea -chest plywood panels IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
Hajipur Muzaffarpur (Bihar ) 

plywood tea - chests ( second 
having their office at 9 Clive 

revisioni ) 
Roy , Caloutta - I . 


21 CM ; L - 525 

28 - 3 - 1963 


[ 16-4-68 


( 16 - 4 -68 


15469 


with 


and 


22 CM ; L - 528 

18 - 4 - 1963 


I - 5 -68 


[PareIl 


23 CM , L - 641 

27 - 2 - 1964 


1- 4 -68 


Sec.8(ii)] 


24 CM L -643 

9 - 3 - 1964 


16 - 4 - 68 


25 CM L -644 

11 - 3 - 1964 


16 - 4 - 68 


26 CM ; L -646 

19 - 3 - 1964 


16 - 4 - 68 


27 CM : L -648 

25 - 3 - 1964 


31- 3 - 69 M s . Arim Metal Icdustries Nickel arcdes for elccticflating IS : 1958 - 1967 Specification for 
Private Limited , 23 Convent 

fabricated nickle anodes for 
Road , Calcutta - 14 . 

electroplating ( first revision ) 
15 - 4 - 69 M /s . Verts Trading Co., L dish - Lock stoffers for tuiyice eteis IS : 1223- 1958 Specification for 
ery , Anand (Gujarat State) used for the determination of apparatus for the determina 
fat by gerber method . tion of fat in whole milk 

evaporated ( unsweetened ) 
milk , skim milk , butter 
milk and cream by the gerber 

method . 
15- 4 - 69 Ms. Lachminarain Madanla ] Wrought all minium utensils , L : 21- I959 Specificatico for 
No. 2 , Haren Mukherjee grade SIC 

* wrought aluminium and 
Road , Howrah having their 

aluminium alloy for utensils 
office at 46 Strand Road , Cal 

( second Tevision ) 
cutta - 7 . 
15 - 4 - 69 Mis . Jagatſit Distilling and Malt extract 

IS : 2404 - 1963 Specification 
Allied Industries Ltd . , 

for malt extract, 
Jagatſit Nagar (Railway 
Station , Hamira , Northern 
Railway ), Distt . Rapur 

thala . 
15 - 4 - 69 Mis . Indian Explosives Ltd ., BHC smoke generator 

IS : 1505 - 1959 Specification for 
Gomia , Distt. Hazaribagh , 

BHC smoke generators . 
Bihar having their office at 
ICI House , 34 Chovrin 

ghee , Calcutta . 
! 30 - 4 -69 Ms. Subbiah Foundry , Ava - Three -phase induction motors IS : 325 - 1961 Specification for 
Dashi Road , Pappanaicken - upto 3 HP only . 

three -pbase induction motors 
palayam , Coimbatore - I 

(second rezision ) 
( 15 - 4 - 69 Mis. J. J . Sokhey Industries Drill chucks 

IS : 2243- 1962 Specification for 
( Tools ) Pvt . Ltd . , Sultan 

drill chucks. 
wind Town , Amritsar 

(Punjab ). 
30 - 11 -68 M /s . Vijay Traders , Karmaghat Water meters (domestic type ) IS : 779 - 1965 Specification for 

Place , Hyderabad having their 15 mm , 20 mm and 25 mm water meters (domestic type ) 
officeat Asbok Nagar Hydera - sizes. 

(second Tevision ). 
bad - 20 . 
31- 3 -69 M /s . Hindustan Steel Limited , Carbon steel bars , billets , blooms IS : 1875 - 1966 Specification for 
Bhilai Steel Plant, Bhilai- I and slabs for forgings . 

carbon steel billets , bloomsand 
Distt. Durg ( M . P .) having 

slabs for forging (revised ) . 
their Regd . office at P . O . 
Hino , Ranchi. 


TIILGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/J YAISTHA18.1890 


1 - 5 - 68 


28 CM L -649 

31 - 3 - 1964 


29 CML-650 

31 - 3 - 1964 


( 16 - 4 -68 


I- 12 - 67 


30 CM / L - 777 

26 - 3 - 1964 


31 CM / L - 1021 

9 - 3 - 1965 


2745 


. 


-= 


2746 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(5) 


(7) 


- 


= 


- 


32 CM / L - 1034 

12 - 3 -1965 


1 - 4 -68 


. 


-..-- 


1 - 4 - 58 


- 


33 CM L - 1035 

12 - 3 - 1965 


- 


- 


34 CM /L - 1037 

22- 3 - 1965 


16 -4-68 


31- 3 -69 M / s. Hindustan Steel Limited, Carbon steel billets for re - rolling IS : 2830 - 1964 Specification for 

Bhilai Steel Plant, Bhilai- I into structural steel (standard carbon steel billets for re - rolling 
Distt. Durg (M . P .) having quality ). 

into structural steel (standard 
their Registered Office at P . O . 

quality ). 
Hinoo , Ranchi. 
31- 3 - 69 M /s. Hindustan Steel ( Limited , Carbon steel billets for re - rolling IS : 2831- 1964 Specification for 

Bhilai Steel Plant, Bhilai- I into structural steel ( ordinary carbon Steel billets for re 
Distt. Durg ( M . P .) having their quality ). : 

rolling into structural stee 
Regd , Office at P . O . Hinoo , 

( ordinary quality ). 
Rancbi. 
15-4 -69 Ms. Anand Insecticides, 415 BHC water dispersible powder IS : 562 - 1962 Specification for 
Elaiya Mudali Street , Koruku - concentrates 

BHC water dispersible powder 
pet, Madras -21,having their 

concentrates 
office at 17 First Cross Street , 

C .I. T . Colony , Madras - 4 
15 - 4 -69 M /s, Shibu Metal Works, Subzi Wrought aluminjum utensils , IS : 21- 1959 Specification for 
Mandi, Jagadhri. is grade SIC 

wrought aluminium and alu 
minium alloy for utensils 

( second revision ). 
15 - 4 -69 M /s . Bagbrgss , Delhi Road , Sone- Cast iron surface pla es grade IS : 285- 1863 Specification for 
pat (Near Delh ). . 

up to 400x400mm size only castrion surface plates 
30 - 4- 69 Ms. Krishna Steel Industries Structural steel (high tensile ) IS : 961 - 1962 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd . , Vaswani Mansions, 

structural steel (high tensile ) 
120 , Dinsha Vacha Road , Bom 

(revised ). 
bay - . 
30 - 4 -69 M / s. Krishna Steel Industries Structural steel (Fusion welding IS : 2062 — 1962 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd , Vaswani Mansions, quality ) 

structural steel (fusion welding 
120 , Diosha Vacha Road , Bom 

quality ). 
bay - I . 


35 CM /L - 1044 

26 - 3 - 1965 


16-4 -68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIÁ:JUNË8,1988/JYAJSTHA18.1890 


16 - 4 - 68 


36 CM /L - 1047 

29 - 3 - 1965 
37 CM / L - 1059 

22 - 4 - 1965 


I - 5 -68 


38 CM / L - 1060 

22 - 4 - 1965 


1 - 5 - 68 


1 - 4 -68 


39 CM / L - 1148 

27 - 9 - 1965 
4 CM / L - 1208 

II - 2 - 1966 


16 - 2 - 68 


31 - 3 -69 M / s, Ajax Electricals , 18 D . L . F . Small electric motors with class IS : 996 - 1964. Specification for 

Industrial Area , Najafgart A insulation single - phase , single - phase small AC and Uni 
Road , New Delhi- 15 . 

capacitor start 

versal electric motors ( reutsed ) . 
15 - 2 - 69 M /s . Asmopal Engineering Three - phase induction motors IS : 325 - 1961 Specification 

Company, C - 16 - 17 Sri Rem with class A insulation up to three- phase induction naotors 
Industrial Estate, Katrak S HP only . 

(second revision ). 
Road , Wadala , Bombay -31. 


[PartIt 


41 


CM L - 1224 
9 - 3 - 1966 


1 - 4 - 68 


31- 3 - 69 


M /s . J. B . Advani-Orerlikon 
Electrodes Private Limited , 
Agra Road , Bombay haying 
their office at Radio House , 
6 Rampart Row , Fort, Bom 
bay - I . 


Covered electrodes for metal arc 
Felding of mild steel normal 
penetration type . 


IS : 814 - 1963 Specification for 
covered electrodes for metal arc 
welding of mild steel (revised ) . 


SEO,3(11)] 


1 - 4 -68 


31- 3 -69 


42 CML- 1230 

23 - 3 - 1966 


M /s. Indian Iron & Steel Co . Rivet bar for structural purposes IS : 1148 - 1964 Specification for 
Ltd . Burup Works , P . O . 

rivet bars for structural pur 
Burnper Distt. Burdwan (West 

poses (Ttvised ). 
Bengal) having their office at 
12 Mission Row , Calcutta - I , 


16 - 4 -68 


15 -4 -69 


43 CMILI232 

28 - 3 - 1966 


16 - 4 -68 


15- 4 -69 


44 CM /L1233 

28 - 3 - 1966 


The Titaghur Jute Factory Co . Jute hessian . 

IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Ltd ., Mill No . 1, Titaghur 24 

Indian hessian , 
Parganas having their office 

at 3 Clive Row , Clacutta - I . 
The Titaghur Jute Factory Co ., Jute sackings and jute sacking ) IS : 1943- 1964 Specification 
Ltd ., Mill No. 1 Titaghur 24 cloth . 

for A - twill jute bags ( repised ). 
Parganas having their office 

(1 ) IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 
at 3 Clive Row , Calcutta - I . 

for beavy ce jute bags. 1 
( ) IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks . 
( 10 ) IS : 2566 - 1966 Specification 

for B - twill jute bags (revised ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JIYAISTHA181890 


(U ) IS : 3794 - 1966 Specification 

for Liverpool twill (L - twill ) 

bags . 
(01) IS : 3667- 1966 Specification 

for B - twill cloth . 
(o# ) IS : 3668 - 1966 Specification 

for Liverpool twill (L - twill) 

cloth 
(07 ) IS : 3750 - 1966 Specifica 

cation for Jute corn sacks cloth . 
( ix ) IS : 3751- 1966 Specification 

for heavy ve cloth . 


-2747 


2748 


(3 ) 


( 7 ) 


(1 ) (2 ) 
45 CM / L - 1235 

30 - 3 - 1966 


16 - 4 -68 


46 CM /L - 1237 

1 - 4 - 1966 


16 - 4 - 68 


47 CM / L - 1242 

14- 4 - 1968 


f16 - 4 -68 


15 - 4 - 69 . M /s . Ner Chemi-MineralMis Endrin emulsifiableconcentrates. IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
Pit. Ltd ., Chakravati Ashoka 

endrin emulsifiable concen 
Road , Ashoka Nagar , Kandi 

trates. 
vali (East ) , Bombay - 67 having 
their office at 7 - A Dean Lane, 

Fort, Bombay - 1 B .R . 
15 - 4 - 69 M /s. Fort Gloster Industries, Paper insulated lead sheathed IS - 692 - 1965 Specification for 

Limited , Badria , S . E . Railway cables (with alumimion 00 - paper insulated lead - sheathed 
having their Office at 23A ductors ) for electricity supply cables for electricity supply 
Netaji Shuhash Road , Cal - up to and induding 33 KV . (revised .) 

cutta - I , 
(15- 4 - 69 M /s . Playa Chemicals , 3 - C Nel- Endrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1310 - 1998 Specification for 
son Manicka Muddaliar 

endrin emulsifiable concen 
Road , Aminjikarai, Medras - 29 

trates. 
( 30 - 4 - 69 . M / s. Shamsher Sterling Cable Hard - drawn stranded aluminium IS : 398 - 1961 Specification for 

Corporation Ltd ., Kirol - and steel- cored aluminium hard - drawn stranded aluminium 
Ghatkopar,Bombay - 77 having conductors for overhead power and steel- cored aluminium 
their Regd . Office at Vaswani transmission purposes (up to conductors for overhead power 
Mansions, Dinsha Vacha Road 4 . 39 mm dia only ) 

transmission purposes (revised ) . 
Bombay - 1. 
( 30 - 4 - 69 M /s . Assam Conductors and Hard - drawn stranded aluminum IS : 398 - 1961 Specification for 

Tubes Pvt. Ltd ., Industrial and steel-cored aluminium hard - drawn stranded aluminum 
Estate , Gauhati (Assam ). 

conductors for overhead power and steel - cored alumi 
transmission purposes . 

nium condictors for overhead 
power transmission purposes 
(revised ). 


48 CM / L - 1244 

21- 4 - 1966 


( 1 - 5 -68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


49 CM / L - 1245 

21- 4 - 1966 


( 1 - 5 -68 


50 CM /L1249 

22 - 4 - 1986 


( 1 - 5 -68 


(30 - 4 -69 


Structural steel 

quality ) 


(standard 


IS : 226 – 1962 Specification for 
structural steel (standard 
quality ) (third revision ). 


M /s. Shree Bajrang Electric 

Steel Co. Private Ltd ., I Kali 
Mazumdar Road, Ghusury , 
Howrah having their office at 
9 Waterloo Street, Calcutta - I. 
M /s . Shree Bajrang Electric 
SteelCo . Private Ltd . , I Kali 
Mazundar Road , Ghusury , 
Howrah having their office 
at 9 Waterloo Street , Calcutta 


SI CMYL - 1260 

22 - 4 - 1966 


( 16 - 4 - 68 


| 15 - 4 -69 


Structural steel (ordinary 

quality ). 


IS : 1977- 19627Specification for 
structural steel (ordinary 
quality ) . 


[PART11– 


52 CM / L - 1252 

26 -4 - 1966 


1 -5 -68 


Src 
. 
8 
( 
11 
) 
] 


53 CM L - 1253 

26 - 4 - 1966 


1 - 5 -68 


54 CM L - 1258 

5 - 5 - 1966 


1 - 5 -68 


55 CM L - 1406 

13- 3 - 1967. 


. 


I - 4 -63 


56 CM L - 1410 

28 - 3 .1967 


1 - 4 -68 


57 CM L - 1420 

28 - 3. 1967 


1 -4 -68 


30 - 4 - 69 Ms. Mukand Iron & Steel Structural steel (standard quality ) IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
Works Ltd ., Kalwe, Thana 

structural steel ( standard 
(Maharashtra State ) 

quality ) (third revision ). 
30 - 4 -69 M s . Mukand Iron & Steel Works Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS : 1977- 1962 Specification for 
Ltd ., Kalwe , Thana (Maha 

structural steel (ordinary quali 
rashtra State ) 

ty ) . 
31 - 10 -68 M /s . Geep Flashlight Industries Flashlights 

IS : 2083- 1962 Specification for 
Ltd , 28 South Road , Allaha 

flashlights , 
bad (IU . P .) 
31- 3 - 69 M /s . IndustrialMinerals and Aldrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1307 - 1958 Specification for 
Chemical Co , Kurla Marol 

aldrin emulsifiable concentrates 
Roady Chakala , Andheri, 
Bombay - 58 having their office 
at 125 Narayan Dhuru Street, 

Nagdevi, Bombay -3 . 
31 - 3 -69 M /s. Indian SteelRolling Mills Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Ltd . ,Main Road , Tirunirayur 

structural steel (ordinary qua 
(Chingleput Distt ). 

lity ). 
31-3 -69 M /s . Indian SteelRolling Mills Structural steel (standard quali- IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
Ltd ., Main Road , Tiruniravur ty ) . 

structural steel (standard quali 
(Chingleput Distt .) 

ty ) (third revision ). 
15 - 4 -69 M /s . Fort Gloster Industries Flexible cables for miner s cap - , IS : 2593 - 1964 Specification for 
Ltd ., Bauria , Distt. Hooghly lamps. 

flexible cables for miner s cap 
having their office at 23A , 

lamps 
Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta - 1 
15 - 10 -66 M /s . Bharat Mineralsand Chemi- Dieldrin emulsifiable concen IS : 1054 - 1962 Specification for 
cals Co , Transport Depot trates 

dieldrin emulsifiable con 
Road , (Behind No. 9 ) Calcutta 

centrates (revised ) 
27 having their office at 174 , 
MahatmaGandhiRoad , Cal 

cutia - 7 . 
15 - 4 -09 M /s, Bombay Cable Company Rubber insulated cables of the IS : 434 (Part II) — 1964 Speci 
Private Ltd ., Agra Road , following types : 

fication for rubber- insulated 
Bhandup , Bombay - 78 having ( ) VIR single core , 250 / 440 cables, Part II , with aluminium 
their office at United Bank 

volts grade with alumi conductors (revised ) 
Building, 6th Floor , Sir P . M . nium conductor . 
Road , Fort , Bombay - I 

(ii) VIR weather proof, 250 /440 

volts grade with alumini 
um conductor 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JUNE 
8 
, 
1968 
/ 
JYAISTHA 
18 
. 
1890 


58 CM L - 1426 

11 - + 1967 


16 -4 -68 


59 CM L - 1429 

11 - 1967 


16 - 4 -68 


60 CML9736 

11 - 1 - 1957 


16 - 4 -68 


2749 


2750 


( i ) VIR weatherproof, 650 / 1100 

volts grade with alumini 

un conductors 
( iv ) VIR braided and compoun 

ded , 650 1100 volts grade 
with aluminium conduc 

tors 
(V ) VIR tough rubber sheathed , 

250 /440 volts grade with 

aluminium conductors . 
(vi) VIR tough rubber sheathed , 

650 / 1100 volts grade with 

aluminium conductors . 
Polythene insulated and PVC IS : 1596- 1962 Specification for 
sheathed cables single core polythene insulated and PVC 
and flat twin only . 

sheathed cables , 


61 G /ML - 1432 

25 -4 - 1967 


1 - 5 - 68 


30 - 4 -59 The Nationl Insulated Cable 

Co, of India Ltd . , Shamnagar 
24 Parganas, West Bengal 
having their regd office at 
Nicco House, 2 Hare Street, 

Calcutta - I 
30 - 4 -69 M / s. Hindustan Brya Boveri 

Ltd ., Kot Village , Ghaziabad, 

U . P.) 


THE 
GAZETTEOF 
INDIA:JUNE8,1968/ 
JYAISTHA18. 
1890 


62 CM /L- 1434 


1 - 5 -68 


26- 4 - 1967 


Hand -drawn standard ahumi. 
rium and steel- cored alumi 
nium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes. 


TS ; 398 - 1961 ) Specification for 
hard drawn stranded aluminium 
and steel - cored aluminium con 
ductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes. 


[No. CMD / 13 : 12 .] 


[ 
PART11– 


-- 


Sec . ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAIŞTHA 18 . 1890 


2751 


New Delhi, the 23rd May 1968 
S . O . 2038 .- - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks ) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the Standard Mærk , design of which together with the verbal des 
cription of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard ( s ) is given 
in the Schedule hereto annexed, has bcen specified . 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution Certi 
fication Marks ) Act , 1952 and thc Rules and Regulations framed thereunder , shall 
come into force with effect from 15 May 1968 : 


THE SCHEDULE 


. 
No, 


Design of the 

Standard Mark 


Product/Class of 

Product 


No. and Title of 
the Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description 
of the Design of 
the Standard 

Mark 


NOW 


) 


Fas 


(4 ) 


I. IS 13384 


Bitumen primcł 
for use in water - 
proofing and dam 
proofing 


C 


IS :3384 - 1965 Specifi - The monogram of 
cation for bitumen the Indian Stan " 
primer for use in dards Institution 
waterproofing and consisting of let 
damproofing. 

tcra "ISI , drawn 
in the exact style 
and relative pro 
portions as indicated 
in col ( 2 ), the number 
designation of the 
Indian Standard be 
ing superscribed on 
the top side of the 
monogram an indi 
cated in the design , 


[No. CMD / 13 :9. ] 


S . O . 2039 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee per unit for Bituinen Primer for 
use in Waterproofing and Damproofing, details of which are given in the Schedule 
hereto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect 
from 15 May , 1988 : 

THB SCHENULE 


Si. Product / Class of 
No. Products 


Unit 


No , and Title of 
Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Marking Fee per 

Unit 


(1) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


One litre 


One l aisa 


Bitumen Primer for I $ :3384 – 1965 Spe - 
use in Waterproo - cification for Bitu 
fing and Demproo - men Primerfor use 

in Waterproofing 
and Damproofing. 


fing ) 


[ No. CMD / 13 : 10 . ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


(Part II -- 


- 


- 


- - 


New Delhi, the 24th May 1968 
S . O . 2040, In partial modification of the notifications published in the Gazette of India , 
Part II , Section 3 (li), details of which are mentioned in col. (2 ) of the schedule given hereafter , 
it is hereby notified that the dates of effect of the three amendments to Indian Standard Speci 
fications as shown in col. (4 ) against cach notification , shall be amended to read as 11 January 
1968 : 

THE SCHEDULE 


SI. 
No. 


S . O . No, and date of the 
Gazette in which 

Published 


No, and Title of the Indian 

Standard Amended 


No, and date of the 

Amendment 


I S .O . 805 dated 2 March IS :3678E - 1966 Specification for No. 1 March 1968 , 
1968 . 

ready inixed paint, thick white 

for lettering , 
2 S . O . 1368 dated 20 April IS : 3536E -1966 Specification for No. I March 1968. 
1968 . 

ready mixed paint, brushing, 

wood primer , pink . 
3 S . O . 1719 dalcd 18 May IS : 3538E - 1966 Specification for ready No. 1 March 1968 . 
1968 . 

mixed paint, red oxidebarium 
chromato /barlum potassium 
chromate primer . 


( No. CMD / 13 :5 


New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 


S . O . 2041 . - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifies that amendments) to the Indian Standard ( s ) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers 
conferred by the sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations. 

THE SCHEDULE 


Seo.8(il)] 


Si. 


No , and title of the Indian Standard 

amended 


No. and Date 

of the 


Brief particulars of the Amendment 


No 


Date from which 
the amendment 
shall have effect 


ame 


No, and date of 
Gazette Notification 
in which the estab 

Lisbment of the 
Indian Standard was 

notified 


ment 


- 


(1) 


(3 ) 


(6 ) 


- 


- 


I IS :15 - 1956 Specification for seedlac (revised ) S . R . O . 372 dated 

2 February 1957 . 


No. I 
June 1968 , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


2 


IS :190 - 1960 Specification for coniferous S . O . 3059 dated No. 3 

savn timber intended for further con - 24 December 1960 May 1968. 

version (second revision ) . 
IS :320 - 1962 Specification for high tensile S . O . 675 dated No . 3 
brass rods and sections (revised ) . 

29 February 1964 April 1968 . 


The amendment aims at removing the diffi - I June 1968 . 

culty of effecting complete solution of 
the colouring matter , experienced with 
poor quality samples of seedlac , 
( i) Clause 4 - 2 . 1 . I has been amended . 31 May 1968 . 
( ü ) Clauses 4 : 2 : 2 and 4 :23. have been 

substituted by new ones . 
(1) Clauses 1 . 1, 5 . 1 and 6 . I I have been 1 June 1968. 

amended . 
( 1 ) Clause 7 . 2 has been deleted . 
( ii) Table VI has been substituted by a new 

one . 
(i) Table V has been substituted by a new I June 1968 , 

one . 
(ii) Clause 5 . 2 has been amended . 
Lumen values for coiled coil high wattage 31 May 1968 . 

lamps have been included . Tables I , II 

and Fig 3 have also been rectified . 
( i) Clauses 1 - 3 , 7 - 3 . 1 , 16 : 1 and tables II 10 June 1968 . 

and 17 have been amended , 
( ii) Tables 34 and 41 have been substituted 

by new ones . 


3 


4 


IS : 400 - 1964 Specification for the national S . O . 3329 dated 
fag of India (wool khadi) ( revised ). 

19 September 1964 


No . 2 
June 1968 


5 IS :418 - 1963 Specification for tungsten S . O . 1421 dated No. 2 

filament general service electric lamps 25 May 1963 . May 1968 , 

(second revision ). 
6 IS :434 (Part 1) - 1964 Specification for S. O . 2673 dated No . 3 
rubber - insulated cables . 

28th August 1965 May 1968 
Part I with copper conductors (revised ) 


2753 


2754 


( 2 ) 


(6 ) 


7 IS :805 - 1962 Code of practice for use of S . O . 242 dated No . 2 

Clause 10 . 2 . 2 , Tables, IV , XXVII, XXVIII 31 May 1968 . 
structural steel in general building con - 26 January 1953 . 

May 1968, and Appendix E have been substituted 
struction (revised ). 

by new ones . 
8 IS : 393- 1934 Specification for rolled steel s .o . 2673 dated No. 3 

( 1) Table I has been amended . 

31 May 1968 . 
bean , chungel and angle sections (revised ) . 28 August 1955 . May 1968. (i ) Table 2 has been substituted by a new 

one . 7 
9 IS : 995 - 1964 Specification for single -phase s . o . 469 dated No. 3 (1) Clauses 14 . 2 . 1, 15 . 3 . 1 (b ) & (C), Tables 15 May 1968. 

small ac and universal electric motors II Feb 1967 . May 1968 , 4 and 8 have been amended . 
(revised ). 

( 11 ) Items (m ) and (n ) of clause 15 . 3 . 1 have 

been substituted by new ones and an addi 

tional item ( ) has been added . 
IO IS :1003 (Part ID - 1966 Specification for S . O . 2177 dated No. I Table 1 has been substituted by a new one . 1 June 1968 , 

timber panelled and glazed shutters Part 1 July 1967 . June 1968 . 
II window and ventilator shutters ( first 

redision ). 
II IS : 1142 - 1959 Specification for logs for S . O . 2110 dated No. I Clause 4: 3 has been substituted by a new 30 April 1968 . 
matches . 

26 September 1959 . April 1968. one. ? 
I2 IS : 1326 - 1953 Specification for non - coni . S . O . 1638 dated No. Il 

(i) Clause 6 . 2 I I has been amended . 30 April 1968 . 
ferous sawn timber for further conversion . 25 July 1959 . April 1968 (i ) Clause 6 . 2 . 2 has been substituted by a 

new one. 
13 IS : 1451 - 1959 Specification for diesel fuels. S . O . 613 dated . No. 4 

The amendment aims at removing the II January 1968 
12 March 1960 June 1968 , emergency character of Amendment No . 

3E and also provides for the winter 
and summer grades of the fuel based on the 

pour point. 
14 18 :1172 (Part 1)- 1959 Methois of S . O . 1572 dated No . 3 ! Clauses 0 . 4 , 1 . 2 and Table V {have been i June 1968 . 
sinh ia ; falto -alloys, part I . 

25 Jun : 1953. June 1963. amended . 
15 IS : 1655 - 1955 Specification for prosessed s . o . 618 dated No. 3 ! [Page 4, Table 1, col. 3, against Serial No. 1 June 1968 . 
cereal iafant foods . 

25 March 1961. June 1968 ( xvid) ] - Delete the asterisk ( * ) mark on 

the value io . 
15 19 : 1657 - 1917 Specification for socialinfint s . o . 618 dated No. 211 [Page 4 , Table I, col. 3 , against Serial No. 1 June 1963. ] 
foods . 

25 March 1961. June 1968 . ( xix )] - Delete the asterisk ( * ) mark and 

? the word Tentative to which it refers . 
17 IS :1835 - 1951 Spacification for malted milk S . O . 2534 dated No . I . [Page 4 , Table 1, SI, No. (viii) ] - Delete the 1 June 1968 . 
food . 

28 October 1961, June 1968 . dagger ( * ) mack and the word Tentative 

to which it refers . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


--- 


- 


[PARTII 


Suc 
. 
8 
( 
i 
) 
] 


. 


18 IS :2179 -1962 Specification for timber for S .O . 483 dated No. I ( First cover page , pages I and 3 , ticke ) [ June 1968. 
lorry bodies 

16 February 1963 . June 1968 Substitute the following for the existing 

title : 

Indian Standard 
SPECIFICATION FOR CONVERTED TIMBER 

FOR LORRY BODIES 
19 IS :2187- 1962 Specification for worsted socks S. O . 483 dated 16 No . I Clauses 6 . I and 9 . I have been substituted ] 1 June 1968 

February 1963 June 1968 by new ones . 
20 IS :2191 (Part II) - 1966 Specification for S . O . 2654 dated 5 No. I 

Clause 3. 1has been substituted by a new one I June 1968 
Wooden fush door shutters ( cellular and Aug, 1967 

June 1968 
hollor core type ) 
Part II Particle board face panels ( first 72 

vision ) 
21 IS :2365 - 1963 Specification for Y - neck S . O , 2160 dated 3 No. 2 

Clauses 6 . 1 and 9 . I have been substituted 31 May 1968 
worsted jerseys 

August 1963 May 1968 by new ones. 
22 IS : 2616 - 1963 Specification for brush , (i) S . O . 1840 dated 30 No. 1 

(1) Clauses A - I, 3 : 1- 3, 3 1 4 , 3 : 1 - 5, Fig . 30 April 1967 
cleaning tank , and (ii) Commode and lava - May 1964 

April 1968 

I and Appendix A have been amcaded . 
tory 

(i ) Clause 0 . 6 has been deleted and clause 

0 . 7 recumbered as 0 . 6 , 
(iii) Clauses 3 . 2 . 2 , 3 . 5 . 2 . 1 , and siz haye 

been substituted by new ones . 
23 IS :2785- 1964 Specification for hard cheese , S . O . 4120 dated 5 No. I . (i) Table 1 has been amended . 

I June 1968 
processed cheese and processed cheese December 1964 June 1968 ( i ) The existing formula under clause C -31 
spread 

has been substituted by a nеw оnе. 
24 IS : 3003- 1964 Specification for brush , shoe S . O , 20 :42 dated 26 No . I 

(i) Clauses 3 . 1. 3 , 3 . 1. 4 , Fig i and Appendix 30 May 1968 
blacking 

June 1965 May 1968 

A have been amended . 
(ii) Clause 0 . 6 has been deleted and clause 

0 . 7 renumbered as o . 6 . 
(ii ) Clauses 3 . 1 . 5 , 3 - 3 . 1 , 7 . 2 and 8 . 4 . 1 

have been substituted by new ones . 
25 IS :3015 - 1964 Specification for brush , scrub - S . O . 2042 dated 26 No. I 

(i) Clauses 4 . 1 . 5 , 4 . 1. 6 , Appendix A and 30 April 1968 
June 1995 April 1968 

Fig I have been amended . 
( ü ) Clauses 4 . 1 . 7 , 4 : 2 : 2 , and 8 : 2 : 2 have 

been substituted by new ones. 
26 IS :3265 - 1965 Specification for weft piros S . O . 1081 dated 9 No. 2 Kaim (Kalam ) wood has been included in 1 Jane 19682 
( taperfit ) forusein shuttles forplain calico April 1966 June 1968 

Appendix A . 
looms 
27 IS :3267 - 1965 General requirements for S . O . 2419 dated 13 No. I Table 3 has been substituted by a new one. 30 May 1968 
anchors 

August 1966 May 1968 . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JUNE 
8 
, 
1968 
/ 
JYAISTHA 
18 
. 
1890 


bing 


275 


2756 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


The amendments aim at removing the 
Emergency character of these standards. 


11 January 1968 


28 IS : 3537E - 1966 Specification for ready mixed S . O . 2602 dated 27 Ne. I 

paint , finishing interior , for general pur - August 1966 May 1968 

poses , to Indian standard colours 
29 IS : 3591 E - 1966 Specification for solvent- S , O . 3011 dated 8 No. I 

extracted coconut oilcake (meal) as live - October 1966 May 1968 

stock feed 
30 IS : 3592E - 1966 Specification for solvent- ex - S . 0 . 3011 dated : No, I 

tracted cotton -seed oilcake (meal) as live- October 1966 May 1968 

stock feed 
31 IS : 3593 E - 1966 Specification for solvent-ex - S . O . 3011 dated 8 No . I 
tracted rice bran as livestock feed 

October 1966 . May 1968 
32 IS :36318 - 1966 Specification for ready S . O . 2687 dated to No. ! 

mixed paint , finishing, exterior , (i) alkeyd September 1966 April 1968 
and ( ii) non - alkeyd , for general purposes , 

to Indian Standard colours 
33 IS : 3679E - 1966 Specification for ready mixed 

No. I 
paint, stoving, red oxide -barium cbromate / 

March 1968 
barium potassium chromate primer. 
34 IS :3710 - 1966 Specification for filling ratios S . O . 469 dated II No. I 
for liquefiable gases. 

February 1967 May 1968 


The amendnent aims at removing the II January 1968 , 

Emergency character of this standard . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


30 May 1968 . 


(i) Table i has been substituted by a new 

ope. 
(i ) Table 2 has been amended. 


Copies of these amendmentslips are available , free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New 
Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices at (i) Bombay Mutual Terrace , Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7 ( 1 ) Third and fourth Floors , 5 , Chowbinghee Approach , Cal 
cutta - 13 (11) Second Floor , Sathyamurthy Bhavan , 54 , General Patters Road , Madras , and ( iv ) 117 /418 - B Sarvodaya Nagar , Kanpur, 

No. MD / 13 :5 ] 
Dr. A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General. 


[Part11 


Sec . ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2757 


- 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2042 . — In exercise of the powers conſerred on me under sub -regulation 
(4 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) 
Regulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, and in partial modification of 
the notification published under number S . O , 1325 dated 30 March 1967, in the 
Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii) dated 15 April 1967, it is , 
hereby , notifled that for purposes of the Indian Standards Institution Certifica 
tion Marks Scheme, IS : 779E - 1966 Emergency Indian standard specification for 
water meters ( domestic type) (third Emergency revision ) shall continue to 
remain in force as a normal standard after 10 January 1968 , namely the date of 
lifting the emergency by the Government of India . 

[ No . CMD / 13 : 4. ] 
A . N . GHOSH , Director Genrral 


2758 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Dopartment of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 30th May 1968 
S . O . 2043 . - Statement of the Affain of the Rekerve Bank of India as on the 24th May, 1568 . 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital paid up 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5,00, 00, 000 


. 


- 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


23,21967, 000 

3, 38 ,000 
4,52 ,000 


Reserve Fund 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


80,00, 00 ,000 


Notes . . . . . 
Rupee Coin . . . . 
Small Coin . . . . 
Bills Purchased and Discounted I 

(a ) Interos 
(6 ) External , 
(C) Government Treasury Bills 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JUNE 
8 
, 
1988 
/ 
JYAISTHA 
18 
. 
1890 


National Agricultural Credit 

Operations ) Food 


(Long 


Term 


131,00 , 00 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


87,22 81,000 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilization ) Pand . 


25,00,00,000 


Balonces Held Abroad 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


125344, 94 , 000 
314,55,86 ,000 


Loreatment * * 


National Ladustrial Credit ( Long Term Operations ) 

Pood 


30 ,00 ,00,000 


Lotos und Adreases to : 


in Centrul Goveromcat 
( ) State Governments @ . 


( 
PART 
II 


. 


. 


. 


- 


94, 16,48, 000 


1 


Deposits :- - 

( a ) Government 


Sec.3(ti)] 


(O) Ce itial Government 
(i ) State Goretaments 


( 6) Banks 


Loans and Advances to : 
(1) Schiedated Commercu Bankst 

57 ,06 ,69 ,000 
(5 ) Suit Co - operative Bantatt . . 

. 141,52 ,45, 000 
( 0 Other . . . . 

3 ,04 , 15 , 000 
90 ,27,60 ,000 Logn , Adyu .ce and Investerents from Nanoul Agricul 

tunl Credit ( Long Term Operations ) Fandi 
4 ,51, 22 ,000 (a ) Lom md Adrances to : 
State Governmenu . 

. 

. 31,71, 15, 000 
( ) State Co - operative Banks . . . . 11, 35 ,43, 000 

( ) Central Lod Mortgage Banla . 
(0 ) Investment in Central Load Mortgage Buok Debentures 7 , 93 ,62 , 000 

Loms md Advi .ce from National Agricultunl Crodit 
139, 10, 18 ,000 (Stabilisation ) Fund : 
5,22 ,76 ,000 Loans and Adences to Suute Co -operative Bank , 

6 , 56 , 96 , 000 
61, 92 , 000 Loans, Advances cod Interment from National Industrial 
5 , 91, 000 Credit (Long Tam Operation ) Find ; 

(6 ) Loms and Advance to the Developmeat Bank , 6 ,08,92 ,000 
321, 12 ,00 , 000 (* ) Investment in bondal debentura igued by the 

Development Back 
2014 ,34 , 000 Otbar And . . . . 

71,21,60 ,000 
128 ,84 , 70 , 000 
981,20 ,63,000 

Ropeas ] . 981,20,63,000 


(6) Scheduled Conneraal Bank . . 
1 Schedule State Co- operatye Bunki , 
* ) Non - Schedule State Co -operative Banks 
(40) Other Banks . . . . . 


(c ) Others 

Bills Payable 
Other Liabilities 


THECAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYALSTHA18.1890 


Rupees 


. 


lacta dei Casb und Short- term Securities , 


* Arduding investments tro n che Nauonal Agri Utural Credit (Long Termo Operado03) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Opatico ) Fuod . 


Reading Loads und Adnances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operation ) Fund, bat including temporarv overdrafts to 

State Goveromcats . 


+ Includes RS . 48,67, 39,000 draced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under section 17 (4) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India is 


disine Lesand Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the Natiood Agriculturu Credit (Stahili. 
too ) Fund . 


2759 


Dated the 29th day of May 1968 . 


An Account pursuedt to the Racito Baok of lodia Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 24th day of May, 1968 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


2760 


LIABILITIES 


Re 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

ment 
Notes in Circulatios 

Total Notes issued 


23 :21,67,000 
3312 . 73 :42, 000 


3335, 95 ,09 ,000 


Gold Coin und Bulion : 
( a ) Held in India 

115,89, 25 ,000 
(b ) Held outside ladit . . . 
Rareigo Securities 

206 ,42 ,00 , 000 
TOTAL . 

322 ,31,25, 000 
Rupee Coin 

70 , 59,37,000 
Goronment of Indian Rupee Securities 

2943,04 , 47 , 000 
Internal Bitta of Exchange and other 

commercial peper 
TOTAL ASSETS 

3335,95, 09 , 000 
B . N . ADARKAR , 

Dy. Governor. 

[ No. P . 3( 3)-BC /68 .] 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy . 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


3335 .95 ,09 , 000 


Datea the 29th day of May , 1968 , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAJSTHA18.1890 


IN 


- 


- 


- 


[PartII 


SEC . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


276 ! 


- 


. - . - 


. - 


- 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
S . O . 2044 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Indian Coin 
age Act, 1906 ( 3 of 1906 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Economic Affairs ) , No. S . Q . 1235 , dated the 29th March , 
1968, published in the Gazette of India dated the 6th April, 1903 , at Part II -Sec 
tion 3 sub - section (ii) , page 1771, namely : 

In the said notification , in the entries relating to 20 paise coin , under the head 
ing " No. of serrations" , for the entry " 114 " , the entry " 112 " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 1 / 31/ 66 - Coin . ] 
M . S . NANJUNDIAH , 

Director , 


Au 


No. 


year 


5 


(Department of Revende and Insurance ) 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1968 
S . O . 2045 . In pursuance of sub -section ( I ) of section 287 of the Income- tax Act, 
1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Central Government, being of opinion that it is expedient 
in the public interest so to do , hereby publishes the names of the assessees . - - 
( a ) being individuals or Hindu " undivided families, who have been assessed 

on an income of more than a lakh of rupees, in Schedule I appended 

hereto ; 
( b ) being firms, associations of persons or Companies who have been asses 

sed on an income of more than ten lakhs of rupees , in Schedule II 

appended hereto . 
during the financial year 1966 - 67. 

SCHEDULE I 
" Names of all Individuals and H . U .Fs. Assessed on Income Over Rs. 1 Lakh in the Financial Year 

1966 - 67 . 
Nameand Address of the Assessec 

Status Assessment Income 

assessed un 
dar I . T . Act 

1961 

4 
ANDHRA PRADESH 

Rs. 
S /Shri 
I Abdul Şukkur Saheb , N . Chittoor . Indl. 

1966 -67 1 , 99 , 220 
2 Anjaneyulu , P . S . R .Guntur 

1966 - 67 ( 1 , 79 , 360 
3 Ankincedy , Prasaad S . R . Y . Challapalli . 

1964 -65 1 1 ,57,083 
4 Ashraf Fazal Bhai, Pr, in M /s . Dilshad 
Film , Sultan Bazar, Hyderabad . 

1966 -67 

1 , 15 ,800 
Babu Mian , Dairy Farm , Hyd. 

1966 -67 1,01,180 
6 Baburao , B . Pr . in M /s Tajmahal Hotel, 
Secundrabad . . 

1966 -67 

1 ,65,758 
7 Balraj Namuri, Sec bad . . 

I950 - 51 

1 , 20 ,866 
8 Bapenaiah , P . V . Guntur. 

1966 -67 

1 ,69,210 
9 Basalat Jah , King Kothi, Hyd . 

1966 -67 

4 ,43 , 203 
IO Chidambariah Kodarapu , Hyd . . 

1966 - 67 

1 ,09, 975 
II Dastagir S . G ., Hyderabad . . 

1966 -67 

1 ,04, 140 
12 Dhirajla I Thokarsi, Hyd , . 

1966 - 67 

1, 17 ,680 
13 Ekanadha Gupta , P . Guntur. 

1966 -67 | 1, 81 , 095 
14 Eshwariah Goli , Paper Business 
Secundrabad . . 

1966 -67 1 ,05, 770 
15 Ganshamdas Kishenchander, 
Socundrabad . . 

HUF 

1965 - 66 

2 ,03,582 
16 Gokuldas Jeisingh , Sec bad . . . , Indl. 

1962 -63 

I . 11,740 
17 Goverdhanlal Bansilal , Hyd . . 

1962 -63 

3 ,47 ,032 
18 H . E . H . The Nizam Sir Mir Osman Ali 
Khan Buhadur , King Kothi, Hyderabud ” 

1962 - 63 11, 39 ,310 
19 Italia D . D ., Hyderabad. 

1965 -66 

1 , 18 , 110 
Italia J. D ., Maredpalll, Sccundrabadi 

1965 - 66 

1 ,01 ,240 
1966 -67 

1 ,08,790 
21 Jabbar M .A ., Send Contractor, Hyderabad 

1964 -65 

1 , 18 , 170 
1965 -66 

1 ,30 , 551 
22 Jagannath Darak , Hyderabad 

1954 - 55 1 , 25,019 
23 John De Souza , Hyderabad . . 

1964 -65 

1 ,62, 259 


an 


. 


2762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTUA 18 . 1890 


(Part II 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 


Rs. 
1 , 18 , 257 
1 , 38 , 743 
1 , 17 . 301 


HUR 


6 , 27, 974 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 , 20 , 597 
1 , 54 ,470 
1 , 11 , 740 


1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,08,210 
5 , 38, 975 


24 Smt. Kamala Devi, Vishakapatnam 

Indi. 
25 Krishniah D . V . Gudur 
26 Laxminarayana V . , Eluru . 
27 Mchboob Khan S ., by L /R Sri S .Masud 
Ali Khan , Nellore . 

Indl. 
28 Marks Ri J., Caltex Oll Refinery (India ) 

Ltd ., Visakhapatnam . 
29 ModiN . M . C ., Zecra , Sec bad . 

Mohanlal Jaisingh , Sec bad . 
är Mohd .Minhajuddin , Pr. in M /s .Karkhana 

Zinda Tllismath , Hyd . . 
32 Motilal Bangilal,Begum Bazar,Hyd . : H . . R . 
33 Nathani F . S . , Pr. in M /8 . Dilshad Film , 
Sultan Bazar , Hyderabad . 

Indl 
34 Pakolkanabha Prasad , Challapali. 
35 Dr. Pandit Rao Palnitkar, Nizamshahi 

Road , Hyderabad . . . 
36 Prince Azam Jah Bahadur , King Kothi, 

Hyderabad . 
37 Prince Moazem Jah Bahadur, King Kothi, 

Hyderabad. 
38 Prince Mukkaram Jah Bahadur, King 

Kothi, Hyderabad . 
39 Prince Muffakkam Jeh Bahadur, King » 

Kothi, Hyderabad . 
40 Princess Durcshahavar, King Kothi, 

Hyderabad . 
41 Rajah G . Satyanarayana Murthy, T., 
Machilipatnam 

, 
42 Rajeshwar Madurl Secundrabad " 
43 Raju P . V .G Rajah of Vijayanagaram Indi. 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 10 , 540 

1,35 ,084 
1 , 44 , 440 


1966 -67 


10 , 58 , 014 
11 ,43, 819 
8 ,02,837 
8 ,03 ,565 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1966 - 67 


3 , 95 , 258 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1952 -53 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,25 ,523 
2 , 76 ,497 
2 ,46 , 155 
3 , 43, 053 
3 , 43 , 344 
2 , 55 , 750 
2 , 72 , 980 


44. Ranga Rao R . V . G . K ., Bobbili 
Ås Ramchandraiah Chotty P ., Chittoor. 


1 


1962-63 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 79 , 959 
1, 09, 942 
1 , 12 , 600 
1 , 72, 516 
1, 22,043 
1 ,32 ,610 


1966 -67 


1 ,35, 120 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 


46 Ramgopal Laxminarayana D . B ., Sec bad . HUF 
47 Reddy A . V ., Kakinada 

• 

Indi. 
48 Sint. Sahazadi Begum , King Kotbi, 

Hyderabad 
49 Sheshgiri Rao G , Allas Giri Babu , 

Gogincoipuram 
50 Sivarama Prasad S.R .y . Challapalli HUF 
51 Sivarama Prasad S.R . Y . do . Indi. 
* * Srihari Prasada Rao P . Guntur 
53 Subramanya Naicker , M ., Chittoor 
54 Sultan Saleem , Pr, in M / S Vazir Sultan 

& Sons, Hyderabad . 
55 Sunder Rao B ., Pr, in M /s . Taj Mahal 

Hotel, Secundrabad , 
96 Taraporcwala C . B ., Hyderabad . . 
57 Sinit . Venkata Durgamba Bahadurini 

S . R . Y . Challapalli , 
58 Venkatakrishnaiah Naidu P ., Chittoor . HUF 
Venkateswar Rao G . , Gudur 

Indi. 
60 Yachendra V . R .G . K ., Rajkumar of 

Venkatagiri , Venkatagiri . 
61 Yachondra V . Ş . K . K . Rajkumar of 

Venkatagiri, Venkatagiri . . . 


1, 11 , 465 
2 , 72 ,791 
1 , 70 , 369 
1 , 30 , 847 
1 , 58 , 448 
1 ,69 .040 
3 ,42,360 


1,09,450 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1,61,018 
1 , 50 , 990 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962-63 


1 , 06 , 920 
1 ,02 , 389 
3 ,02 ,055 


1960 - 61 
1956 - 57 


1, 59 ,567 
1, 38,729 


SEC. 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1690 


2763 


I 


Rs. 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
- do 
- do 
-do 
- do 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1962 - 63 
- do 


1 ,04 , 556 
1, 03. 209 
1 ,06 , 956 
1 ,53 , 047 
2 , 49 ,609 
* 4 ,01, 225 

1, 27,810 
81, 00 , 664 
i 1 , 11 , 479 
1, 14 , 307 
2 ,07 ,655 
1 ,54 ,413 


1965- 66 
- do 


1 , 22 , 920 
1 ,31, 189 


- do 
1962-63 
- do 
-do 
- do 
1966 -67 


1, 10 , 977 
1 , 19 , 500 
1, 21 , 764 
1,02,821 
3 ,08,000 
1 , 00 ,638 


ASSAM 
62 A .G .Bruce, Namdang, T .E ., Tinsukia , Indi. ? 
63 A . Ahmed Dibrugarh . 

or 

. 
64 A1 Hal J . Ahmed , Dibrugarh . 
65 B . N . Şingh , Digboi 
66 B . Ahmed , Dibrugarh . 

L . 
67 Dharamchand Karwa , Dibrugarh , " 
68 G . C . Paul, Tezpur . 
69 G . C . Son Gupta , Gauhati . . . » 
70 Girdharilal Sardarmal, Dibrugarh , IUF 
71 M / s, Hanutram Ramprasad , Dibrugarh . 
72 J. A . Morice , Sangsua T . E ., P . O . Gotogna, 
Distt. Sibsagar . . 

i · · Indl. 
73 J . S . Roberton , Tinsukia 
74. Kisscnlal Agarwalla Clo Sahiram Hazari 

mal & Co . Bismile, Chabua . , HUF 
75 Smt. Laxmidevi Chowkhani, Makum Indl. 
76 M . A . Rahman , Dibrugarh . 

M . D . Barua , Jorhat . 
78 Md. Israil Khan , Dibrugarh . 
79 P . L . S . James , Tingukia 
80 R . G . Gregory , Clo Balmarlawric & Co . 

Ltd . 21 , Netaji Subash Road , Calcutta 
81 R . G Saharia , Dibrugarh . . . 
82 Radheyshyam Tibrcwalla , P . O . Tezpur . 
83 Ramkumar Fibrewalla , - do - . 
84 Ramjidas Ganpatrai, Fancy Bazar ,Gauhati LUF 
85 Rawatmal Mulchand P . O . Tezpur . . 
86 M / s Rikhabchand Sohanlal, P . O . Tezpur 
87 M /s Rameshwarlal Sanwarmal, Dibrugarh HUF 
88 S . P . Borooah , Jorhat . . . . Tadl. 
89 S . Sen , Shillong , 
sö Sagarmal Jain , cio Rai Chunilal Bahadur 

& Co ", Jorhat . 
21 Todarmal Agarwalla , l ajabrgaon ; . 

Nowgong 
92 Udai Chand Jain , Jorhat , , , 

BIHAR AND ORISSA 
93 Bhagat Singh ( Sardar) , Tatanagar 

Indl, 
94 Chatturam & Others , Jumeritellaiya 
Hazaribagh 

HOF 
95 Dharamchand Jain , Chaibassa, Singh 

bhum 
96 G . B . Thakur & Sons, Golmuri, Jam 
shedpur 

HUF 
Godavari Devi, Cultack : 

Indi. 
98 Govind Choudhary , Berhampur 
99 FI. C . Vershnei Kanda Singhbhum 
100 J. J. Ghaniy , Jamshedpur . 
JOI J.P .D . Costa - Bistupur, Jamshedpur 
102 K . G . Thakur, C /o M /s. Bharat Builders , 

D Costa Mansion , Bistupur, Tamshed.. 
103 Mangal Singh ( Sardar ) Jamshedpur 
104 Mishri Lal Jain , Chaibassa , Sin 

ghbhum . . . . . 


- do 
1958 - 59 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
- do 
1965 -66 
1962 - 63 

-do 
1962- 63 
do 


1 ,01,283 
2 , 92 , 535 
2 , 59 ,818 
1 ,46 ,787 
1 , 17 , 766 
1 , 88 ,222 
1 ,24 , 747 
1 , 60 , 540 
2 , 74 ,810 
2 , 74 ,810 
1, 93 , 505 


do 


do 


1, 42 ,936 


. 


. 


. 


Iirdi. 


1961 -62 
1962 -63 


1,04,360 
- 1 , 14 ,000 


d Jain , Jorhat , 


1963-64 


1 , 14 , 022 


1960 -61 


1,87 ,956 


Indl. 


1963 -64 


1 , 20 ,412 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 


1, 38 ,060 
1 , 23 ,600 
1 , 34 ,450 
2 , 12 ,079 
1 ,36 ,830 
1 , 19 ,556 


pur, 


1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1 ,03,617 
1,22 ,418 


1963-64 
1964 -65 


6 , 92, 274 
5923 , 849 


2764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[PART 1 [. . 


Tidl. 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


Rs. 
1, 66 ,590 
2, 32 , 338 
3 , 37, 228 


105 P . C . Vershnei, Kandra , Singhbhum 
106 P . K . Mallick , Cuttack , . 
107 R . K . Rao, Raja of Jaypore 
108 S . C . Chakravarty , Bistupur, Jan 

shedpur 
109 S .C . Verghnei, Kandra, Singhbhum . 
TIO Dr. S . S . Madan , Berhampur 


1964 -65 
1966 - 67 
1962 -63 


1,30 , 260 
Į 3 ,49 ,729 

2 , 86 , 000 


BOMBAY CITY _ I. 


Indi. 


1962 -63 


1 ,44,413 


1966 -67 


1, 06 , 196 


1966 -67 


1967 -68 


7, 10 , 123 
1 ,09 , 871 


III A . Raptakos , c /o Raptakos Brett & Co., 

Ltd ., Worli, Bombay . 
112 A . Woodwark , c /o M /s . Hindustan Lever 

Ltd ., Hindustan Lever House 165- 166 

Backbay Reclamaton , Bombay- I . 
113 A . D . R . Goddis clo National Grindlays 

Bank , M .G . Road , Bombay 
114 A . G . Sonawalla , 135 Sheikh Memon 

Strect , Bombay 
115 A . L . Cole , cló Anglo Thai Corpora 

tion , P . B . No . 70 , Bombay 
116 A . R . Leyden , clo . Agfa Gevaert ( India ) 

Kasturi Bullding , Bombay 
117 A , S . Dixit, Pushpa Kunj, A -Road , 

Churchgate , Marine Drive , Bombay 
118 A , W . Goddard c /o Anglo French Drug 

Co. , 24 -26 Tardeo , Bombay - II 


1, 19 ,520 


HUF 
Indi. 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1963-64 
1962-63 
1962-63 


1,89 ,291 
1,07, 927 


4 , 50 ,000 


2 ,59 ,681 


1966 -67 


1 ,28 , 180 


1966 -67 


119 Abedulla S . Baygan B 293 Nag devi 

Sreet , Bombay . 
120 Abdulla Aziz , S . Başsam , 293 Nagdevi 

Street , Bombay 
121 Adi B , Dubagh , clo A . B . C . & Sons 

P . Ltd ., 6 Rampart Row , Bombay . 
122 Albert Sinha , 8 Turner Road , Bandra , 

Bombay 
123 Smt. Allu D . Cawasji , c/o M /s. D . 

Cawagli & Co ., 123 M . G .Road , Bom 
bay . 


1966 -67 


1, 28, 180 
1, 11, 156 
1, 98 ,572 


1963-64 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


1 , 16 ,913 
1 , 70 ,590 


1, 16 ,207 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1,54: C25 


1962-63 


1: 49 , 322 


124. Ashok Kuna Gungully , 28 Ranpart 

Run , Fort, Binbay 
1125 B . A . D 13h clo M /s. A . B . C . and Song 

P . Ltd ., 6 Rampart Row , Bombay 
126 B . D . Garware , c /o Dominion Plastic 

Industries , Chowpaty Chambers 

Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7 
127 13. D . Nagpal, c /o M /s. Amalgamated 

Universal Agencies Ltd ., 301 Lotus 

House ; Marine Lines , Bombay 
128 B , K , Dubagh , clo M /s. A . B . C . and 

Sony P . Ltd . 6 Rampart Row , 

Bombay 
129 B . L . Meyer, c /o Esso Standard Eastern 

Inc., Bombay - I 
130 B . M . Tafti , Sitaram Building, Dr. 

D . N . road , Bombay - I 
131 B . O . D . Paterson , clo M /s. Hongkong 

& Shangai Banking Corporation , 
Bombay 


1962 -63 


1,37 , 965 


1 ,11,378 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 


1, 09 , 980 


1 ,45 ,741 


1962 -63 


1,34 ,682 


Sec . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYÁISTHA 18 , 1890 


2765 


N 


3 


4 


5 


Indi. 


1, 58 , 030 


132 B . S . Billiinoria . clo M /s. S . B . Billi 

moria & Co., 113 M . G . Road , 

Bombay 
133 B . V . Doshi, clo M /s. East African Tra 

ders , 75 , Khand Bazar , Bombay , 
134 . Estate of Balakumari Devi, 30 , Belgrove 

Square , London , S . W . I. 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


4 , 10 ,080 


1954 - 55 
1955 - 56 
1956 - 57 
1957- 58 


7 , 86 ,043 
4 ,35, 681 
6 , 17 , 351 
5 ,00 ,984 


1962- 63 


1 , 39 , 562 


1961 -62 
1962-63 


1, 13 , 400 
1 ,46 ,620 


135 Balraj Sahani, Stella Villa , The Optical 

Colony , Juhu , Bombay . 
136 Balubhai Chiman Lal clo Ms. Chiman 

lal Mohanlal, Hanuman Building , 

Tambakanta , Bombay . . . 
137 Beniprasad Singhi, Bombay Mutual 

Building, Gunbow Street , Bom 

bay - 1 , 
138 Bharat Kumar P . Divecha , clo M /s. 

Divecha Congtruction , 232 , Dr. D . N . 

Road , Bombay . . 
139 Bllagrai Juharmal, Agakhan Building, 
Dalal Street, Bombay . 

H . U . F . 
140 Bomi D . Motiwalla , Joghi House , Cum 

balla Hill St. , c /o Patel & 
Co ., Cas. Parsce Bazar Street, Bombay Indl 


1965- 66 


1, 03 ,780 


1,272759 


1962 -63 
1962-63 


1,03,960 


1964 -65 


3 , 349 
Indian Income 
1 ,04 ,029 TWI 


141 


C . B . Seitz , clo E990 Standard Eastern 

Inc. , Bombay - I 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,96 , 788 
1 , 31 , 091 


142 


1963 -64 


1 ,39 ,232 


143 


C . C . Hestand, clo E190 Standard Eastern 

Inc . , Bombay - I 
C , D . Marcus, clo Burmah Shell Oil & 

Storage & Dist, Co . Ltd . , Burmah 
Shell House , Ballard Estate , 

Bombay . 
C . H . Bhabha , Cuffe Parade , Colaba , 

Bombay . ; vi 
C . H . Cambell , clo M /s. James 

Finlay & Co . Ltd ., M . G . Road , Fort, 
Bombay - - 


1966 -67 


144 
145 


1,01,982 
1 , 90 ,381 


1966 -67 


1962- 63 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


1 ,29 , IIS 
1 , 23 , 828 
1 ,37,841 
1 , 37 , 914 
1 ,63,816 
1,63, 573 


1962 -63 


1,09, 930 


1966 -67 


1, 14 , 700 


146 C . M . Scedat, clo Chitra Cinema, 2 - A , 

Naaz Building , Lamington Road , 

Bombay. 
147 C . R . Jasawalla , c /o M /s . Payne & Co., 

Esplanade Houge , Waudby Road , 

Bombay - I 
T48 C . V . Deshpande, clo M /s. Seweree, 

Enginering Construction C ) . Ltd ., 
Savoy Chambers, Wallace Street, 

Bombay 
149 C . W . Divis, clo Caltex India Ltd ., 

Caltex House , Bombay . . . 


1954 -65 


1, 28,984 


1962 -63 


1, 66 , 216 


- 


- 


2766 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


(PART II 


I 


4 


5 


150 Cawas D . Motiwalla , Joshi House , 

Cumballa Hill Station , c /o Patel & Co ., 
Cost. Parsce Bazar Street, Bombay . 


Ind 


. 


1964 -65 


3 ,4921 
Indian Income 

1,01,599 
T . W . I. 


151 Chimanlal Daulatram , clo M /s . Chimanlal 

Daulatram , Hanuman Building, Tam 

bakanta , Bombay . 
152 Chimanlal Mulchand clo M /s . Natverlal 

Mangaldas & Co. , 85 / 91, Mumbadevi 
Road , Bombay - 2 


1963- 64 


[ 1,10,020 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


( 3 ,04 , 210 

2 ,92, 417 
( 3 ,76 , 114 


1954 - 55 


1, 20 , 725 


153 D . C . Hodson , Health Cottage, Friston 

Eastbourne, Sussex England 
154 D . N . Sawyer, c /o Firestone Tyre & 

Rubber Co . Ltd ., Haybunder Road , 

Bombay 
155 D . R . D . Tata , Bombay House, Bombay 

D . R . Morarji, Prospect Chambers , Dr. 

D . N . Road , Bombay - I 
157 D . T . Morarji , Prospect Chambers , 

317 / 21 , Dr. D . N . Road , Bombay - I 
158 Dev Anand , 2 , Iris Park Juhu , Bombay 


1967 -68 
1966 -67 


1 ,21,642 
1,45,922 


2 , 92,775 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 

1958- 59 
1962 -63 


1 ,76 ,720 
2 , 81,070 
1, 72 ,420 


1966 - 67 


2 ,83 , 004 


1966 - 67 


1, 10 ,270 


159 Dharminder Doel, « Woodland St. 

Bandra , Bombay 
760 Mrs. E . A . Guhd Fiorita, Chemin , St. 

George Clayers (Vcudi), Switzerland , 
c/o National & Grindlays Bank Ltd ., 

Bombay - I . 
I6I E . Gricf, c/o Bayer ( I) Ltd ., 82, Vir 

Nariman Road , Bombay . 
162 E , G . Peter, c /o Castrol Ltd ., Bom 

bay - 6 
163 E . M . Billimoria , clo M /s. Hindustan 

Sugar Mills , 51, M . G . Road , Fort, 

Bombay 
164 Lt. Col. F . A . B . Smith , 1, Suffok St., 

Helas Burry Scotland , U . K . 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 18 , 903 
1, 13 , 780 


1961– 62 


1, 19 , 424 


2 , 22,047 


1966 -67 
1963-64 


2 ,200 
Indian Income 

1 ,00 ,720 
T .WI, 


1966 -67 


1,33,600 


1962- 63 


2 ,61, 146 


165 F . H . Kemple , Forbes Building, Home 

Street , Bombay - I 
166 F . K . Heller , clo Protos Engg. Co . Ltd ., 

173 , Jamshedji Tata Road , Church 

gate , Bombay - I 
167 G . P . Advani, clo M /s. A . F . Ferguson 

& Co ., Allahabad Bank Building, 

Appollo Street, Bombay . . 
168 G . T . Warner, clo Firestone Tyre & 

Rubber Co. Ltd ., Haybunder Road, 

Bombay 
169 G . Wilhem , clo Protos Engg . Co., 

Ltd ., 173, Jamshedji Tata Road, 
Churchgate , Bombay - I . . . 


1966 -67 


1,01, 120 


1965-66 


1 ,40 , 816 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 , 75 ,421 
1,68,423 
2 ,43 ,656 


Stc. $( ii)| 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIÁ : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTIIA 18, 1890 


2767 


- 


- - 


--- - 


170 George Liren , clo Shroff & Co. Stadium 

Houge , Veer Nariman Road , Bombay . 


Indl. 


1960 -61 


1 , 12 , 117 
Indian Income 

1, 55 , 807 
TWI. 


1962-63 


1,35 , 963 


1965 -66 


* 1, 10 , 998 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 


1 , 16 , 120 
4 ,85,770 


1962 -63 


2 ,01,803 


1966 -67 


71,02,710 


H . U . F . 


1962-63 


1, 96 ,500 


Ind . 


1966 -67 


2 ,21,280 


1, 03 ,090 


171 Gerhard Gabriel, clo Indian Iron and 

Metals Traders P . Ltd ., Bombay 
172 Gianchand Chauhari, clo Indokcm 

P . Ltd ., 231, D . N . Road , Bom 

bay . 
173 Girdharlal L . Bajaj, clo Ms. Mohan 

Bros ., l - Ismail Building , Dr. D . N . 

Road , Bombay . . 
174 Girdharlal M . Muhatta , 127, Mumbadevi 

Road , Bombay . . 
175 Glyn Jones , c /o Gammon India P . Ltd . , 

Hamilton House , Ballard Estate , 

Bombay . 
176 Gulabchand Hirachand , Construction 

House , Ballard Estate , Bonbay 
177 H . G . Sonawalla , 67 , Marine Drive , 

Bombay 
178 H . J. Vachha , clo M /s. A . F . Ferguson 

& Co ., Allahabad Bank Building , 

Appollo Street , Bombay . 
179 H . R . Batliwala , Neville House , Ballard 

Estate , Bornbay - I 
180 Hemant Kumar Mukherjee, Gectanjali 

14th Road , Khar , Bombay 
181 Harbanslal Sohanlal, clo Overscas Film 

Circle , Sukh Sagar, Huges Road , 

Bombay - 7 . 
182 J . Anderson , c / o A , F . Ferguson & Co. , 

Allahabad Bank Building , Appollo St., 

Bombay 
183 J. C . Gupta , Gul Mansion , Homji 

Street, Bombay 
184 J. D . Choksi, Bombay House, Fort, 

Bombay 
185 J. J. Chaulas, jo G . Williams & Co . 

P . Ltd ., 124 , Foreshore Road , 

Bombay - I 
186 J. K . S . Nicholson , clo Breul & Co ., 

210 , Dr. D . N . Road , Bombay 
18 J . L . Bhatia , clo M /8 . A . F . Ferguson 

& Co., Allahabad Bank Building , 

Appollo Street , Bombay . . 
188 Trustees of Mrs . J. M . Lubimoff Trust , 

c /o A . F . Ferguson & Co., Allahabad 
Bank Building, Appollo Street, Bombay - I 


1966 -67 
1963-64 


2 , 16 , 780 


1962-63 


3 ,01,912 


1966 - 67 


1963 -64 
1966 -67 


1,63 , 910 
1,08 ,750 
1 , 40 , 042 


1962 -63 
1962-63 


11,04 ,835 
62,89,910 


1966 -67 


* 1 ,43 , 160 


1963 -64 


27 ,703 
Indian Income 

1 , 67, 843 
T .WI. 


1 ,62,270 


1962 -63 
1965 -66 


1 ,34 , 192 


189 J. Om Prakash , Prop , Filmyug, 241 , 

Famous Cinc Building, Mahalaxami, 

Bombay - II 
190 J. P . Davis , c /o Esso Standard Eastern 

Inc., Bombay - I 
191 J. P . Ghecwalla , Taj Building, Dr. D . N . 
Road , Bombay - I 

. . . 
192 J. P. Ward , c/o ICI, Ballard Estate , 

Bombay 
193 J. R . D . Tata, Bombay ( House, Bombay 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 


1 , 05,825 
1 , 27,414 


1962-63 
1966 -67 


1 , 36 ,418 
2 , 45 , 592 


268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


(Part II 


Indl. 


1966 -67 
1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 


1,65,910 
1,68,864 
1 ,68 ,864 


194 J. Scott, c /o Esso Standard Inc , Bom 

bay 
195 J.W . Perry, clo Esso Standard , Bombay- 1 
196 Jaisingh Vithaldan , 9, Wallace St., 

Bombay - I 
197 Smt. Joylaxmi Nagardas, legal heir of 

Shri Zaveri Nagardas Chaturdas , 88 , 

Vithalwadi, Bombay - 2 , . 
198 Smt. Jayashreeben s . Lashkari, Mafallal 

House , Backbay Recl., Bombay 


1966 -67 


1,55 ,641 


1962 -63 


1,62 ,670 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965- 66 


1 , 31,017 
2 , 16 ,378 
1 , 16 ,788 
1, 24 , 966 


1963-64 


199 Jeewandas Doongursey , co M /s , Doon 

gursey & Sons , 127 , M . G . Road , 

Bombay . . . . . 
200 Jharandra S . S . J. B . Rana, c /o K . U . 

Advani, 52 , Agakhan Building, Dalal 
Street, Bombay - I 


1,06, 340 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1, 26 ,634 
1 , 25 , 214 
1,03 ,229 
1 , 13 , 119 


201 Jitendra Mansukhlal, c / o M s , M . S . 

Tarwalla & Co ., 18 , Sk . Memon Street , 

Bombay 
202 Mrs . Joahne Griffith , Bryn Gynog ; 

Glean Canway Denligshire , U . K . 


1 ,04,537 


1962 -63 
1959 - 60 


1 , 17 ,711 
Indian Income 

1 , 27 , 724 
T . W . I. 


1964 - 65 
1965 -66 


1 ,85,877 
23,98 ,290 


1966 -67 


1 ,51 ,800 


203 John Higham , c /o M /s , S . K . F , Ball 

Bearing Co. Ltd ., M . G . Memorial 

Building, N . S . Road , Bombay - 2 
204 Joseph John , Prop Mangalore Becdi 

Shop , 139 , M , G . Road , Bombay - I 
204 Trustees of J . M . Lubimoff Settlement 

Trust No. II, c /o A . F . Ferguson & 
Co ., Allahabad Bank Building , An 

pollo Street, Bombay - I . 
206 K . K . G . Stevens, c /o Mis . Hindustan 

Lever Ltd ., Buckbay Reclamation , 

Bombay 
207 K . M . Ramesh , Sitaram Building , Dr. 

D . N . Road , Bombay - I 
208 K , N . Shah , Standard Building Dr. 

D . N . Road , Bombay - I 
209 K . Ramchandran , c /o Hindustan Clock 

Co ., Switches , Ltd ., Hense Road , 
K . V . R . Jafferies, c ó The British 

Bank of Middle East, 314 , D . N . Road , 
Bombay 


1962-63 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1, 12 ,795 
1,04,844 


2 , 44, 892 


1966 -67 


2 ,42, 111 


2TO 


1966 -67 
1967- 68 
1962-63 


1 , 19 , 070 
1 , 12 , 157 


211 K , Yoykara , c /o Bank of Tokyo , Jeevan 

Prakash , Sir P . M . Road, Bombay 
212 Kali D . Cawagji, c / o M / s . 1) . Cawasji 

& Co. , 123 , M . G , Road , Bombay - I 


1, 04 ,667 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 12 ,099 
1 ,57, 660 


213 Bai Kamla Juthalal, c /o M /s. Chi 

manram Motilal, Bullion Exchange 
Building , Bombay - 2 . . . 


1962- 63 


1 , 24 ,070 


SF.C. 3 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTIIA 18 . 1890 


2769 


1 


5 


Indl. 


1962 -63 


6 , 65,320 


214 Kantilal D . Patel, c /o . Mjs , Shri Bombay 

Watch Co ., 160 Dr. D . N . Road , 

Bombay 
215 Khodadad Marwun Irani, c /o M /s. Pyr 

kcs Provision Storcs Cafe , 327, 

Di, D . N . Road , Bombay 
216 Kishore Kumar Gangully , Gauri Kun ) , 

Juhu Tara , Juhu , Bombay 
217 Genl. Krishna S . S . J . B . Rana Jaya , 

Bhavan , Gangadhat Chorty Road , 
Bangalore - 1 


1961-62 


1,00,465 


1962 -63 


2 ,02 , 801 


1960 -61 

35 ,000 
Indian Income 


7 , 45,021 T . W . I . 
1961-62 

4 , 36 ,519 
1962-63 

2 , 27 , 334 
1963- 64 

2 ,40 , 021 
1964-65 

2 , 33 ,783 
Indjan Income 
2 ,04 ,563 T . W , 1. 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


2 ,07 , 257 
2 ,82,750 


1962-63 
1966 -67 


2 , 19 , 242 
1 , 06 ,790 


2.18 L . Chapinar , co Caltex (India ) Lid ., 

Caltex l Iouse , Bombay 
219 L . Swalıney , Bombay House , Boinbay 
220 Lalchand Hirachand , Construction House , 

Ballard Estate , Bombay . 
221 Miss Lata Mangeshkar , Prabhu Kuni 

Peddar Road , Bombay 


1966 -67 


1 , 01 , 200 


1962 -63 
1953 -64 
1964 -65 


1 , 88 , 900 
2 ,21, 920 
2 ,01, 841 


1966 -67 


1 , 11,627 


1965 -66 


1 , 10 ,644 


1962-63 


222 Smt. Laxmibais . Chulani, 22 Church 

gate Mansion , A - Road , Bombay 
223 Mrs . Louise Shellim , Montircaux , 

Switzplund , c o State Bank of India , 

Bombay 
224 M . C . Pandya , c o M /s, Kumar Engi 

neering Works, 65 M . G . Road , Boni 

| bay - I 
225 M . G . R . Aitkin , c / o M /s . Crawford 

Bayley & Co . State Bank Building, 

Bank Street , Bombay - I . . . 
226 M . H . Tatu , Bombay House , Bombay 
227 Estacc of Late Mrs . M . J . Suulcrland 

c /o Ms. Orr Dignam & Co., 29 Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta - I . . . 


1 ,42 ,560 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


2 ,05, 318 
2 , 32 , 322 
1 ,36 , 262 


1958 - 59 

89 ,027 
Indian Income 
1 , $ 1,603 T . W . I. 


1962 -63 


1 , 94 ,430 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 


1 ,01,496 
1 ,00 , 100 


228 M . K . Sanghavi, 27 Gloga Strect, 

Bombay - 1 
2.29 M . K . Shah , Forbes , Building , Home 

St., Bombay - I 
230 M . R , Marani, 148 M . G . Road , Bombay 
231 M . R . Visadiajam , c /o M / s . IIindustan 

Constuction Co. Ltd ., 24 Slcater 

Road , Boinbat - 7 
232 M . V . Stolen , c o l irst National City 

Bank of New York , 293 Dr. D . N . 
Road , Bombay - I 


1964- 65 
1965 -66 


1 , 98 ,052 
1 , 59 ,522 


1966 -67 


1,00 ,259 


7270 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[Part ) 


Indl, 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 
1962- 63 


3 , 49 , 451 
1,25, 170 
4 ,64,020 
4 ,69 ,421 


233 Madhavsingh Dwarkadas Great Social 

Building Sir P . M . Road , Bombay 
234 Smt, Madhuriben Yogindra Prasad Ma 

fatlal House , Bombay 
235 Mafat ]al Mohanlal Mehta , 08 Sk . Memon 

Street, Bombay - 2 
236 Mahavirprasad R . Morarka , 24 - B , 

Karmishcel Road , Bombay - 26 
237 Smt. Maki K . Mistry , clo M /8 , A . B . C . 

& Sons , P . Ltd ., 6 Rampart Row , 

Bombay 
238 Miss Mala Sinha , 8 Turner Road . 

Bandra , Bombay 
239 Maneklal Premchand , 63 Appolo , St., 

Bombay - I 
240 Mangaldas Gopaldas clo M /g. Natverlal 

Mangaldas & Co., 85 /91, Mumbadevi 
Road , Bombay . . . . . 


1966 -67 


1964 -65 
1961- 66 


1,04 ,825 
2 ,60 , 800 
3 , 78 , 159 


1963 -64 


1, 59 ,259 


2 , 34 ,640 
2 , 26 , 120 
2 ,89,880 


2 ,64 , 308 


1963-64 
1961- 65 
1965-66 
1964-65 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1966 -67 


1, 70 , 604 
1,41, 750 
1 , 12 ,354 


1958 - 59 


1,08 ,303 


241 Smt, Manibai M . Mulji Al- Sabah Court, 

Marine Drive , Bombay 
242 Manoj Kumar Plot No. 381 , 14th Road , 

Khar , Bombay . 
243 H , H . Muhr Taj Nawab , Sajida Sultan 

Bogum Ruler, of Bhopal . 
244 Mihirkumar Hemant, Mafatlal House , 

Bombay 
245 Mohan Segal, Prop. Delux Flims 103 

Famous Cine Building, Mahalaxmi 

Bombay - II 
246 Mohanlaľ L . Bajaj clo M /s. Mohan 

Bros ., 9 Ismail Building Dr. D . N . 

Road, Bombay . . 
247 Mohd . Rafi, 47 Proff, Almedia . Road , 

Bandra , Bombay - 50 . . . 
248 Mohamedali Basgan , 293 Nagdevi 

Strect, Bombay 
249 Molakram Techchand clo M /s. Kotumal 

Techchand , Tambakanta , Bombay 
250 N . A . Shroff , Executor ofthe estate of the 

lato Shri A . D . Shroff c / o Agfa India , 
Khetan Bhavan , Jamshedji Tata Road , 

Bombay 
251 N . D . Motiwalla , Cumballa Hill Station , 

c / o Patel & Co . , Cas . Parsco Bazar 
Street, Bombay . . . . 


1962 -63 


127 ,019 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


1 , 40 ,451 
1, 19 ,090 


1 ,32,730 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1,02,530 


1966 -67 


1, 62 ,840 


1964 -65 


3 ,337 Indian 

Income 
1 ,03, 230 T , W . I. 


1962-63 


1,03,909 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


. 
. 


252 N . D . Sirur, clon . Sirur & Co . Forbes 

Street , Bombay - I . 
253 N . J . Vacha, c /o M /s . Hindustan Con 

struction Co . Ltd ., 24, Sleeter Road , 

Bombay - 7 
254 N . K . Jhaveri, 115 M . G . Rd ., Bombay 
255 N . K . Petigara , c /o M /s ,Mulla & Mulla 

Oraigie Blunt & Caroe , 51 M . G . Road , 
Bombay . . . 

. 

. . 

Do 
256 


N . K . Santook , 


257 N . M . Billimoria , 393 , Lamington Road , 

Bombay- 4 


) ) 


1 ,06 , 377 
2 ,31, 738 
4 , 75 , 996 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 , 52 , 140 
1 ,62 , 280 
2 ,13 , 385 
1 , 14 , 780 


Seo , 3( id) ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JİYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2771 


- 


- 


2 


3 


4 


Indl. 


1962 63 


1 , 11,559 


1964 -65 


1, 52 ,222 


1966 -67 


9, 38 ,535 


258 N . M .Wagle , c /o Greaves Cotton & Co ., 

Ltd . , I, Forbes St. , Bombay - I . 
259 N , M , Sinclair , c / o Burmah Shell Oil 

& Storage & Dist. Co . Ltd . , 
Burmah Shell House Ballard 

Estate , Bombay , 
260 N . N . Wadla , Nevile House , Ballard 

Estate , Bombay - I 
261 N . R , Mulla c /o M /s . Mulla & Mulla 

Craigie Blunt & Caroc , 51. M . G .Rd . 

Bombay . . 
262 N . S . Gupchup , clo M s . Hindusthan 

Construction Co . Ltd ., 24 , Sleater 

Road , Grant Road , Bombay - 7 . , 
263 N . S . Iyangar, Co . Chomidye Trading 

Co. Ltd ., Kamer Builing , Cawasji Patel 

Road , Bombay 
264 Smt.Nandkuwar R . Sheth ,81, Brahman . 

wadi Road , Kings Circle Bombay - 19 


1966 -67 


1 ,00 , 970 


1965 -66 


1, 16 , 0€ 5 


1966 -67 


1, 12 ,850 


1961 -62 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1 , 15 ,454 
1 , 00 , 852 
1 ,01, 987 


1962 -63 


1,05 , 620 


1967 -68 


1, 15 , 266 


265 Nav Shakti Tilms, Prop . Shri A . R . 

Zamindar , Roshni, 15th Road , Bandra , 

Bombay , 
266 Nazir Gulam Hussain , clo Mrs . Mou A . 

Degani Mohammedi Housc , 34 /38 , 

Jeeſibhoy Dadablioy Lane, Bombay - I 
267 0 . P . Raihan , 6 ,Kohinoor Cross , Linking 

Road , TPS 24 , 3rd Road , Khar, Bombay 
268 0 , R . Underhill, c /o Esso Standard 

Eastern Inc. , Boinbay - I . . 
269 P . A .Narielwala , Bombay House , Bombay 
270 P . B . Maynard , c /o Burmah Shell Oil & 

Storage & Dist . Co . Ltd . , Burnah 
Sholl House , Ballard Estate , Bombay 


1963- 64 


2 , 10 , 290 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 


1 , 88 ,627 
1 , 18 ,275 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,04, 152 
1 ;06 , 340 
1 , 17 , 553 


1966 -67 
1962- 63 


1 ,48,995 
1 , 17,064 


, 


1962 - 63 
1964-65 
1965 -66 


1 , 20 , 541 
1 ,88 ,555 
3 , 55 , 256 


271 P . C . R . Coats (decd ) by his legai hcir clo 

Burmah Shell OilStorage and Dist. Co . 
Ltd . , Burmah Shell House, Ballard 

Estate , Bombay 
272 P . D . Mehta , clo New Elite Exhibitors , 

Chitra Cinema, Vincent Road , Dadas 
273 P . J . Dickinson , clo Burmah Shell Oil 

Storage & Dist . Co . Ltd ., Burmah 

Shell House, Ballard Estate , Bombey . 
:274 P . K . Jhaveri, 115 , M . G . Road , Bombay- I 
275 P . L . Tandon , 165 - 166 , Backbay Reclama 

tion , Bombay - I 
276 Miss P . M . Gamble , P . O . Box No. 1917, 

Nassu Bahamas , c / o Ford Rhodes Park 
Co . P . O . Box No. 307 , Bank of Baroda 

Building , Appolo Street , Bombay - I . 
277 P . M . Patel, clo Standard Mills Ltd . , 

Mafatlal House , Churchgate , Bombay 
278 Smt. P , P . Mistry , c / o M / s . A . B . C . & 

Sons Pvt. Ltd ., 6 , Rampart Row , 

Bombay - I 
279 P . R . Deshpande, clo Crompton Parkin 

son Ltd . , Bombay . 
280 P . R . Morarji,Prospect Chambers 317 - 21, 

Dr. D . N . Road , Bombay . . 


1966 - 67 


1 :03,640 


1965- 66 


3 ,63, 467 
1, 53, 142 


1962- 63 


1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 , 03 , 547 
1 , 19 ,774 


» 


2 : 72 ,519 


2772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II – 


Ind ). 


1 , 56 , 430 


- 1963-64 
1966 -67 


1 , 31, 904 


" 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


2 , 11, 309 
3 ,043730 


1 , 29 , 720 


281 P . Sirinivasan (decd ) through legal rcp 

resentative S . T . Chari 24 , Churchgate 

Mansion , A . Road , Bombay- I . 
282 Smt. Pannaban H , Mafatlai, Mafatial 

House , Bombay 
283 Pratapsingh Mathurdas, 9 Wallace 

Street , Bombay . . . . 
284 Mrs . Pravinaben Rashesh Kumar Mafat 

lal House , Churchgate Reclamation , 

Bombay 
285 Pravin D . Desai, Advant,Marino Drive , 

Bombay 
286 Premratan Damani,23 , Pragraj,Galli, m . 

J . C . Mkt., Bombay - 2 
287 Parshottamdas M . Bhatia , P . B . No. 173 , 

Baharian 
288 R . C . Khanna , cio M /s. A . F . Ferguson 

& Co ., Allahabad Bank Building , 

Appolo St., Fort , Bombay 
289 R . D . Birla , Industry House, Churchgala , 

Bombay . . 
290 R . D . Motiwalla , JoshiHouse , Cumballa 

Hill Stn ,, c /o Patel & Co . Cas . Parsco 
Bazar St., Bombay . . . . 


8 ,84 .470 


? 


1966 - 67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1, 10 ,620 


2, 08 , 910 


1 ,21, 900 


, 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1963 -64 


4 , 40 ,710 

5,28 , 984 
3 . 533 Indien 

IP como 
1, 11, 786 T . W . I .. 
3 , 453 Indian 

Income 
1, 04 ,653T . W . I . 


1964- 65 


1966 -67 


1 , 03, 310 


291 R . G . Chapman , c / o A . F . Ferguson & Co. , 

Allahabad Bank Building, Appolo 

Street , Bombay . . . . 
29. R . K . Joshi, c /o M /s . Hindustan Conis 

truction Co . Ltd ., 24 , Slcater Road , 

Bombay - 7 . . 
293 R . M .H . Evans, cio A , F . Ferguson & Co ., 

Allahabad Bank Building, Appolo 

Street , Bombay - I , . 
294 R . N . Jacob , clo B . N . ENias & Co., 

National Tobacco Building , Calcutta , 


1965 -66 


1 ,02,62 : 


1963-64 


1 , 75 : 583 


1961 -62 


2, 19 :552 ) rcia 

Income 


2 ,29,365 T. W .I 


1, 32 , 860 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


1 , 53 ,650 


1 , 70 ,477 
1 , 70 , 536 


1964 - 65 


3, 35. 167 


295 R . P . Novatia , C /o M / s, Hindustan Sugar 

Mills , 51, M . G . Road , Fort , Bombay . 
296 R . S . Irani, Bombay Mutual Bldg . , 

Gunbow Street , Bombay - I , 
297 R . W . Camp , c / o Esgo Standard Eastern 

Inc., Bombay - I. . . . . 
398 Raj Kapoor, Prop . R . K . Films Trombay 

Road , Chembur, Bombay . . . 
299 Rajendra Kumar, 2 , Charter Road , 

Bandra , Bombay -50 , . 
300 Ram Prakash Bakshi, Prop . P . S . Pictures . 

215 , Famous Cine Building, Maha 

Laxmi, Bombay - II. 
301 Ratansey Karsondas , 9 Wallace Street, 

Bombay . . 
302 Dr. Rustom Jal Vakil Standard Build 

ing , Dr. D . N . Road , Bombay . 
303 S . B . Agarwal, clo M /s . Cinefones 2 New 

Queen s Road , Bombay , . . 


1965-66 


3,69, 127 


1963-64 
1966 -67 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,45. 920 
1, 25 ,600 
1 ,07 ,006 , 
1,06 ,686 


" 


Sec.3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2773 


3 


- 


- 


- 


Indl. 


1962- 63 


1, 18. 765 


1, 38 ,340 


1962-63 
1962-63 
1966 -67 


1 , 64 , 5C9 


2 , 93, 240 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 28 ,771 
1 , 18 ,SIO 


1966 -67 
1965-66 


1 ,07, 925 
1 , 25 ,542 


304 S . B , Choitramani, 5 - J , Naaz Building , 

Lamingtoll Rd . , Bombay . 
305 S . D . Nagpal , c /o M / 8 . Amalgamated 

Universal Agencies Ltd . , 301, Lotug 

House, Marinc Lincs , Bombay . . 
306 S . G . Pradhan , c /o H . Fisher & Co . Lid . , 

M . G . Road , Bombay 
307 Smt. S . K . Kabbur, 3 , Bastion Road , 

Bombay - I . 
308 S .L .C . Wright,BlundeliEomite Pvt.Ltd ., 

Ist Victoria Lanc , Mazagaon , Bombay . 
309 S . Moolgaonkar , Bombay House , Bom 

bay . 
310 S . N . Agarwal, c/o M /s . Cinefones 3 , New 

Qucena Road , Bombay . 
311 S . N , Desai, 51, M . G , Road , Bombay. 
312 S . N . Vakil, clo M / 8 . Payne & Co. , 

E .planade House , Woudby Road , 

Bombay- 1. . 
313 S . R . Vankudre , alias v . Shanlarom 

" Shantshrcc " , Govt. Gate Road , Parcl, 

Bomtay- 12 . . 
314 $ . S. Godbole , c/o M /s. Hindusthan Cons 

truction Co . Ltd ., 24 , Sieater Road , 

Bombay - 7 . 
3.15 Mrs . Sadhana Shivaclasani, Bhosle s 

Bungalow , Gazdar Scheme, Santacruz 

(West) , Bombay - 54 , 
316 Shammi Kapoor, No. 1, Blue Heaven 

Mount Pleasant Road , Malahar IIill, 

Bombay . 
317 Genl. Shankar S . S . J. B . Rana , 30 , Bel 

grove Square , London , S . W . 1 , . . 


1966 -67 


1 , 16 ,880 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1,22 ,770 
1, 59,823 


1965 -66 


3- 66 .053 


1: 09, 750 


1962 -63 
1960 - 61 


1961-62 


4 ,07, 334 
Indian In 

come, 
4 , 19 , 334 
T . W . I . 
4 , 16 , 220 
Indian In 

cone. 
1 ,22 , 220 
T . W . I. 

2 , 37, 549 
Indian In 

come, 
2 ,67, 549 
TV . I. 


1962 - 63 


318 Dr. (Mrs .) Shanta Bai G . Doshi, Con 

struction House , Ballard Estate , 
Bombay . . . . . . 


» 


1961-62 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 37 , 579 
1 ,05, 373 
. 1 , 19 ,710 


1965 -66 


1, 07, 320 


319 Shantiprasad Singhi, Bombay Mutual 

Building, Gunbow St., Bombay 
320 Sevantilal Mohanlal Karta of the H . U . F . 

of Mohanlal Daulatram , Hanuman 

Billding , Tambakanta , Bombay - 2 
321 Genl. Singh S , S .J . B . Rana, 19 , Koregaon 
Park , Poon 2 - 1 

. . . 


H . U . F . 


1962-63 


1 ,45,670 


Indl. 


1948 -49 
1949- 50 
1950 - 51 
1951- 52 
1952 - 53 
1953 - 54 
1954 - 55 
1956 - 57 


1 , 21 , 129 
1 ,05,670 
1 , 10 , 282 
1,32, 360 
1 , 57, 040 
1, 25 , 785 
1 , 11, 108 
1 , 13 ,428 


322 Shreeprakash Agarwal, Kamani House , 

Poddar Rond , Bombay . . . 


» 


1966-67 


1, 07,377 


2774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


3 


4 


5 


: 


Indl. 


1, 13 , 750 
1, 09 , 330 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1 ,03,825 
1 , 18 ,031 


1966 -67 


1, 26 , 590 


323 Sitaram D . Morarka , 29 , Nepean Sea 

Road , Bombay , . . . 
224 Surajratan Damani, Bullion Association 

Building , Sk . Menon Rd., Bombay -2 . 
325 Smt. Sushilaben Arvind Prasad, Mafatla ) 

House , Bombay 
326 Mrs. Sylla R . Holmes , clo M /s . M . j. 

Divechi, 22 , Apollo Strect , Bombay 
327 T . K . Kotak , c / o M / s . Kotak & Co. , 

Nivrari Building , Dr. D . N . Rd ., Bom 

bay . . 
328 T. O . Caylkins, c/o Esso Standard Eastern 

Inc. , Bombay - I 
329 Princess Tara Rajya Laxmi Devi, Jaya 

Bhavan , Gangadhar Chetty Road , 
Bangalore - 1 


1965 -66 


1 , 19 ,998 


1 ,31, 830 


1962-63 
1963 -64 


1 ,01,924 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 36 , 704 
1 , 19 ,072 
1 , 21, 213 
1 , 23, 341 
1, 32,285 


1966 -67 


2 , 19 ,412 


330 Tikamdas P . Bhatia , P . B . Box No. 173 , 

Baharlan 
331 Umedbhai N . Patel, cio Ms. Kumar 

Engineering Works, 65, M . G . Road, 

Bombay - I 
332 Extr. to the estate of late Rani Urmila 

Devi, c /o State Bank of India , P . B . No . 
13 , Bombay - I . . . . 


1962 -63 


1 ,42 ,090 


1 


1959 -60 


1960 -61 


97, 140 
Indian 
Income. 
1,31,591 

T . W . 1 . 

1, 58 ,537 
Indian In 

come. 
1 ,97 ,438 
T . W . I . 


1,31,077 
1, 24 ,986 


1964 -65 
1962-63 
1962- 63 
1961 -62 


5 , 36 , 234 
3 , 96 ,600 


H . U . F . 


1962 -63 


1, 74 , 178 


Indi , 


1962 -63 


1 , 12 , 125 


333 V , B . Garware , clo Dominion Plastic 

Industries , Chawpaty Chambers , 

Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7 . 
334 V . J . Shah , c/o Mukund Iron & Steel Co . 

Ltd ., Bombay 
335 Dr. V . N . Sinha, Edna Queens Road , 

Bombay . . 
336 v . P . Sanghavi, clo M /s . East African 

Traders , 75 , Khand Bazar, Bombay - 2 . 
337 Vishandas Ghanshyamdas Raheja , 

Shyam Nivas , Block No. 9 , Warden 

Road , Bombay - 26 , 
338 W . A .G . Evans, clo Caltax (India ) Ltd , 

Caltex House , Bombay , 
339 W . Bock , clo The New India Industries 

Ltd ., Photo Paper & Chemicals Division , 
Industrial Assn . Bldg., Churchgate, 

Bombay . 
340 W .G .S . Tozer, clo Formica India Ltd ., 

9 . Wallace St., Fort , Bombay . 
341 W . H . Brett, clo Raptakos Brett & Co. 

Ltd ., Worli , Bombay 
34.2 Extr, to the estate of Sir Walter Wilson 
* : (Decd ), 13 , St. James Square, London , 
$ . W . - I 

. . . . 
343 Y . A . Fazalbhoy , c /o G . R . A . Ltd ., 

Bombay . . . . . . 


1,01,498 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1 , 11, 900 


1962 -63 


1 ,37, 169 


1956 -57 
1957 - 58 


4 , 07 ,951 
1 ,67,953 


» 


1966 -67 


1 ,43,140 


SEC. (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


7275 


Indl. 


1,05, 819 
1,08 , 591 


» 


1 ,02 ,230 


Bombay City -- II 
3.14 A . A . Fazalbhoy , 41, Library Building, 

Marine Lines , Bombay 
345 A . A . Mombalia , 62 , Warden Rd ., 

Bombay . 
· 346 A . A . Peerbhoy , Ali Chambers, Tamarind 

Lane, Bombay . 
347 A . B . Patei, clo Century Automobiles , 9, 

Mathew Road , Bombay 
348 A . J. Katgara . V . N . Road , Bombay , 
349 A . J. Mody, 319 , Narsi Natha St., 

Bombay . 
350 A . K . s. Aiyar ,c/o M /s. K . S. Aiyar & Co., 

Apollo St ., Bombay 
351 A . L . Arte , Govind Chowk , M . 

Market , Bombay . 
352 Mrs . A . New Lands , 70 , Wond House 

Rd . , Colaba, Boinbar , . . 


1966- 67 
1964 -65 
1966- 67 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1965 - 66 
1966-67 
1962-63 


1 , 03 , 361 
1,03,707 


1,54,934 


” 


1 ,08 ,210 


1,91, 139 


1946 -47 
1947 -48 


2 ,62, 500 
4 ,24 ,000 


1, 36 ,422 


1965 -66 

Do. 


2 , 72 ,979 


353 A . P . Sheth, clo M /s. N . Pranji & Co., Old 

Hanuman Lanc, Bombay - 2 
354 A . V . Birla , Industry House, 150 , Church 

gate Reclmn. , Bombay , 
355 A . V . Karia , 57 - H , Daman Lane, 

Bombay 
356 A . V . Moli, Jajawalla Court, Bhulabhai 

Desai Road , Bombay 
357 Abdul Hussain Gulámally, Narayan 

Dhuru St., Bombay . 
359 Ali C . P , Widia , 70 , Forbas St., Bombay 
359 Adity P . Thackersay, 16 , Apollo Street , 

Bombay . . . . . . 


1962 -63 

Do . 


5 ,01,664 
14,69 ,065 


Do. 
1966 -67 


2 ,80 , 952 
1 , 19 ,696 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


$ 1 ,03 ,074 
1,36, 738 
1, 96 ,754 


1 , 38 , 974 


1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 


1,25,962 


1 ,24, 291 


360 Ambalal Kilachand , 45- 47, Apollo St., 

Bombay 
361 Ambalal Lallubhai, co M s, Chimanlal 

Manchind , 327 , S . V . P . Rd ., Bombay 
362 Amritlal Hollaram , 387- 89 , N . N . St. 

Bombar 
363 Anil N . S111 , Ligal Hcii of C .C . Shah , 

19 , Hamm St. , Bombay . 
364 Anil N , Shah , 19 , Hamam St., Bombay 
365 Arvindkumar M . Killachand , Clo Bhurate 

Pvt. Ltd ., Mafacial House , M . M . 

Road , Bombay 
356 Arul K . Biragwati , 43 , loshes St., Bombay 


1962-63 


Do . 


1 , 10 301 
2 , 16 , 043 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1, 73 ,884 
1 ,94, 982 
1 ,28 ,896 
1, 16 , 235 


1962- 63 

Do. 


1, 30 ,628 
9 ,95,678 


HUF 


1963 - 64 


7 ,21,212 


367 Mrs . Avabai E . Ghadialli, 21 , Nopeansea 

Road , Bombay 
368 Aziz M . Manji, Pydhoni Rd ., Bombay 
369 B . B . Nayar , 413 , G . Vasantwadi, Kalba 

devi Road , Bombay - 2 . 
370 Smt. B . F . Guadar, C /o Mís . J . S . Guadar 

& Sons , Stock Exchange Bldg ., Dalal 

St., Bombay 
371 B . G . Navlakhi, Clo M S. J. V . Navlakhi 

& Co., 533 , Kalbadevi Rd., Bombay - 2 
372 M188 B . H . Bhajucha, 19 - A , Cuffe Parade, 

. Bombay - s . 


Indl. 


1965- 66 


. 


1920 , 746 


1964- 65 
1962 -63 


1,08 , 310 
1,06 ,091 


2776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1988 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


1 


373 B . I. Joshipura , Co T . Manaklal Mfg . 

Co ., Vaswani Mansion , D . V . Rd . , Bombay 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1, 40 , 360 
1 ,04 - 324 
1, 38 ,029 
1, 46 ,016 
1,21, 484 


374 B , K . Mehta . 28. Apollo St., Bombay 


, 


2 ,91, 57 ) 
3 , 10 , 184 
1 ,84 ,029 


Do. 


1 ,00 , 347 


Do. 


Do. 


7 , 18 .451 
2 , 77 ,877 


Do. 


1, 08 , 939 


Do. 


1 ,41,420 


1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,44, 524 
2 , 24, 483 


1, 32, 325 


Do . 


1962-63 


1 , 82 , 220 
1947, 533 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 


3, 52 ,528 
1, 13,212 
2,13,567 


Do . 


375 B . L . Shah , 112 , Nagdevi St., Bombay 
376 B . L . Vijan , C o K . L Vijan & Co ., Narsi 

Natha St., Bombay 
377 Late Sri B . M . Parakh , Clo Botlibhoy 

& Co ., Forbes St., Bombay 
378 B . E . Bilmoria , Florniman Circle , Bombav 
379 B . N . Trivedi, Clo M s. B . N . Trivedi, 

19 /21 , Hamum Street , Bombay 
380 B . N . Widhari, 73 /75, Tamarind Lane , 

Fort , Bombay 
381 Smt, R . P . Bhimji , C o M /s , Industrial 

Elcc . E ngy. C1 , 10 , Hamim St., Bombay 
382 B . P . Godrej, 40 , Ridge Rd . , Bombay . 
383 B . R . Mulji, 259 , Kalbadevi Rd., 

Bombay - 2 
384 3 . R . Tanman , C / o M / . Sharp & Tan 

man , Bank of Baroda Bldg ., Apollo 

St. , Bombay . 
385 B . R . Thadani, v . N . Rd., Bombay 
386 D . Roinhart, 19, Graham Road , Ballard 

Estate , Bombay 
387 B .S . Bhat, Clo Hansa Dying & Printing 

Works, V . P . Road , Bombay 
388 B . S .Gandhi, C / o Dhirajlal & Co . , 50 ,New 

Queen s Road , Bombay 
389 B , S . Manian , Prop ., Rational Agaphalt 

Products & Constn . Co. , Shannur , Sir 

P . M . Road , Bombay . . 
390 B . V . Darumalla , C / o M / a, Darumalla 

Bro9 . P . Ltd ., Shroff Mangion , Princes 

St., Bombay - 2 . 
391 B . V . S . Iyanger ,Prop ., M /s. Iyanger Co 

opcrative Insurance Bldg ., Sir P . M . 

Road , Bombay 
392 Bachubhai B . Shah , c /o M /s, Texpin India 

Agency , 110 , Medum Street , 

Bombay 
393 Balchand Tulsidas, oid Atlas Mills 

Compound , Beey Road , Bombay . 
394 Bhaidas Darsibhai, Chandra Chowk, 

M . J . C . Mkt., Bombay 
395 Bhailai Amritlul, Clo M /s. B . Kantilal 

& Co., Swadeshi Market , Bombay - 2 . 
396 M / s . Ballmal Nayalkishore , 50 , Tamarind 

Lane, Bombay . . 
397 Bhogilala .Mehta, 501, Commerce House , 

Medows Street, Bombay 
398 Bhanji Vidhu , 223 - 25 , Narsi Natha St., 

Bombay 
399 Bhawanji D .Khinji ,Western India House , 

Sir P . M . Road, Bombay 
Bhogilal Laherchand, 7, Forbes Street, 

Bombay 
401 Bhogilal Rai chand, Clo M /8. Iwaçam P . 

Ltd ., 204 , D . M . Road , Bombay - I . 


Do. 


1 , 98 ,654 


1966 -67 


2 , 03, 030 


1962- 63 


1 , 59 ,316 


1,28, 108 


1 , 95 ,041 


1 ,71, 135 


1963-64 
1962- 63 
1966 -67 

Do. 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1 ,07,800 


1 ,08,435 


1962 -63 


1 ,58, 798 
1,35, 790 
1,33,085 
5 ,58,077 


Do . 


400 


Do. 


1966 -67 


1 ,05 ,550 


SEC, 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAIŞTHA 18. 1890 


29777 


_ 


1946 -47 
1947 - 48 


1 ,01,300 
6 ,01, 300 


1, 16 ,465 


1965 -66 

Do . 


1 , 11 ,401 


1962 -63 


1 ,21,645 


1,65,614 


402 Bimla icvi alias Premlata Omprakash 

Mahachwari, Naka Court, Churchgate , 

Reclamation , Bombay . . . , Industrial 
423 Bipinchandra Mitersain , Clo M /s . Miter 

gain Rupshind, 336 - A , Kalbadevi 

Road , Bombay - 2 
104 Bonan K . Shroff , 24, Colaba Chambers, 

Calaba , Bombay , 5 . 
405 M /s . Bombay Import& Export Prop . Shri 

B . Vasudev , 285, Carnac Road , 

Bombay . . . . . 
406 Belmohan S . Nemani, 212 , Kalbadevi 

Road , Bombay - 2 
407 C . A . Shal , Prop. M /s. Chhganlal & Co ., 

192 , Argale Road , Bombay 
403 C . B .Gardinho , Sambhaya Chambers , Sir 

P . M . Road , Bombay 
409 C . C . Choksey , Mafatlal House , Backbay 

Reclamation , Bombay 
410 C . J . Dubash , 70 , Lamington Rd., Bombay 
411 C . K . Shah , 16 - 18 , Abdul Rehman 
412 C . K . Thakore , Kastur Niwar , French 
Bridge , Bɔmbay 

· HUF 
413 C . L . Rijhwani, C /o Rijwani Construction 
Co ., 197 , B . G . Street, Bombay 

Industrial 
414 C . L . Shah , 112 , Nagdevi Street, 

Bombay 
415 C . M . Mehta , Clo M /s. Gagrat & Co 

Ali Chambers , Tamarind Lanc , 
Bombay 


1 , 21, 752 


1 , 19 , 921 


Do. 

Do . 
1966 - 67 

Do . 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,81, 956 
1 , 01, 465 


St., Bombay Kostür Niwar , French 


1, 02 ,911 


5 , 53 ,802 
1, 36 ,086 


Do. 


Do. 


2 ,04,028 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1, 48 , 185 
1, 70 ,249 
1 , 78 , 060 


-416 


C . M . Shah , Clo M /8 . Kanchand & Co ., 
2 / 3 Sindhu Hougo , Nanabhai Lane, 
Bombay - I 


1965-66 
1966 -67 


1 , 08 , 035 
1 ,24 , 467 


1962-63 


1 , 22 , 224 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,05, 292 
1, 44 , 467 


417 C . N . Gandhi, Mehta Building ,Modows 

Şt., Bombay . 
418 C . P . Bhimji , C /o M / s. Industrial Elec. 

Engg . Co ., 10 , Hamam St., Bombay . 
419 C . W . Llyod , C /o M /s. Ford Rhodos Parks 

Co ., Bank of Baroda Bldg ., Apollo St ., 

Bombay 
420 Chaganlal Ladhubhai, 92 , Argyle Road , 

Bombay 
-421 Chagganlal Motilal , Yusuf Bldg ., 

Bombay 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


1 ,92 ,290 
1,63,511 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 76 ,600 
1 ,01,813 
I 56 , 387 


1,06 ,564 
1 ,86 ,721 


424 


422 Champaklal Bhogilal, 126 ,Nagdevi St., 

Bombay . . 
423 Champaklal Dovidas , Agakhan Bldg ., 

S.nt. Champavati Lalji Jetha Krishnaraj 

Galli, Bombay 
425 Chandrahas K Thakersay , Vithaldas 

Chamber, 16 , Appollo St., Bombay 
426 Smt. Chandrakanta D . Chia , Industrial 

Agguranco Bldg ., Opp. Churchagate 
Station , Bombay 


1962- 63 
1963-64 
1965- 66 
1964 -65 


1 ,05, 757 


2 ,03,333 


1905-66 


1,22 , 058 


2778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 

- - : : : 


[Part 11 


Industrial 


1964 -65 


1,89 ,632 


1 ,71,668 


1 , 13 , 008 


1962- 63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 


1955 ,911 


1, 10 ,862 
1,18 ,894 


Do. 


3,65, 106 


Do . 


2 , 98, 840 


1,69,671 


1966 - 67 
1962-63 


1 ,40, 221 


427 Smt. Chandraprabha V . Mercliant, 16 , 

Apollo St., Bombay 
428 Chandrayadan A . Pandya , C /o Amritlal 

Bhurabhai & Co. , Anend Bhavan , 

Princess St., Bombay 
429 Changanmal Agarwal, 126, Nagdevi St., 

Bombay 
430 Charandas Vaganji, 285-87 Narsi Mehta 

Şt. , Bombay 
431 M /s. Chaturbhai Prabhudas, 493, Arthur 

Rd. , Bombay 
Chetandas Mollaram , 387-89 Narsi 

Mehta St., Bombay . . . 
433 ChlmanlalManchand , C /OM /s. Chiman 

lal Manchand , 327 , S . V . P . Road , 

Bombay 
434 ChimanlalNathuram , Dadar Galli, M . ). 

Mkt., Bombay 
ChimanlalMohanlal, 36 , Shroff Mansion , 

Princess Street , Bombay 
436 Chinubhai Kilachand , 46 - 47 , Apollo St. , 

Bombay 
437 Chainubhai Madhay lal Ramchhoddas , 

2nd Barahat, Noble Chambers, P . B . 

St., Bombay 
438 Chunilal Girdharilal, Vir Nariman Road , 

Bombay 
439 D . B . Putnani, C /OM /s . Murlimal Santram 

& Co., Carnac Road , Bombay . 
440 D . D . Lakhanpal, 29 , New Queen s Rd., 

Bombay 
441 D . J. Loyalka , Share Bazar , Dalal Şt., 

Bombay 
442 Mrs . D . K . Dubash , Nopean Sea Rd., 

Bombay 
443 D . L . Shah , Prop. Perfect Machine Tools 

Co ., Bell Bldg., Sir P . M . Road , 

Bombay 
444 D . M . Desai, 39 , Vasundra , 17, Wardon 

Rd ., Bombay 
445 D . M . Padhya, 10 - A , Tamarind House, 

Tamarind Lanc, Bombay 
446 Excc. ofthe Estate ofLate D H . Thakkar , 

Ridge Rd., Bombay 
447 D . R . Asher, 16 , Apollo St., Bombay . 


Der. 


2 ,86 , 113 
1,03 , 916 


Do . 


1961-62 


1 , 13 ,561 


2 , 31 ,799 


1962 - 63 
1964-65 
1965- 66 


1,01, 480 


1 , 09 ,906 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 


1 ,00 ,022 
1 ,22 ,425 


1962 -63 


1 , 32 ,774 


Do. 


2 ,05,692 


Do . 


6 , 82 , 493 
1 , 52 ,410 
3 , 34 , 513 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1961 -62 
1966 -67 


448 D . R . Mchta , 75 , Warden Rd., Bombay 


I 59 ,808 
1 , 14 , 450 


1962-63 


8 ,06 ,401 


1963 -64 


1905 , 383 


449 D . R .Nayar, 413 - G , Vasantwadi, Kalba 
devi Rd ., Bombay - 2 

HUF 
450 Dr. D . V . K . Raju , Clo M / s . Crooks Inter 

fren Ltd ., 254 , Anis Basant Road , 
Worli , Bombay - 26 

Industrial 
451 Dalichand Miterasain , C /o M /s. Mitrasain 

Rupchand, 336 - A , Kalbadevi Road , 

Bombay - 2 
452 Sardar Dalip Singh , Prop . Eversure 

Trading Corpn ., French Brrige , 

Bombay 
453 Dasrathlal Ochagylal Krishnaraj Galli " 

M .J . C . Market, Bombay 


1965-66 


1 , 24 , 007 


1962 -63 


1 , 28 , 117 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1 ,99 , 297 
2 , 28 ,491 


SEO .3(U ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA i8. 1890 


2770 


- 


- - - 


Industrial 


1962 -63 


1 ,58 ,967 
1 ,08 ,608 


Do . 


1966 -67 


1 ,73, 695 
1 ,03 , 976 
1 ,47, 967 


) 


1964-65 
1965 -66 


1 ,23 ,319 
1 , 29 ,440 


1964 -65 
1965-66 
1965 -66 


2 , 85 , 970 


454 DayalalNamchand ,Prop . M /s . Hardware 

Trading Syndicate , 31 , Bibilan Street , 

Bombay 
495 Devandas Kotumal, 387, Narasi Mehta 

St., Bombay 
456 M /s. Dlane Talkies , Trust , Clo J. S . 

Bhavanagri, A . Abad , Churchgate 

Reclamn., Bombay 
457 Dicky D . Chonthia , Mehta House , 79 /91 , 

Apollo St., Bombay . . . 
458 Dongerscy Jamnadas , Chandra Chowk , 

M . J . C , Market , Bombay . 
459 Dxarkadas Gordhandas, Krishnaraj 

galli , Bombay . 
460 Dwarkadas Gordhændas, Krishnaraj 

Galli, M J. C . Market , Bombay 
461 Dwarkadaş Ratansi, C /o M /s, Ranchoddaş 

Odda & C . .. 66 , P . B . St. , Bombay . 
462 F . K . Mistry , C /o E , K . & R . K . Mistry , 

Mistry Court , D , W , Road , Bombay . 
463 F . M . Shah , Prop . Honesty Trading 

Co., Mcdows St. , Bombay 
464 Fakirchand Lalchand , Prop ., M / s. 

Chopra Trading Co., 46 - 48 Nagdevi 

St ., Bombay 
465 Fazal Ibrahim Rahimtullah , Fair View , 

Ridge Road , Bombay 
466 Pazalhussain Esufally Fidvi M /s. Fidvi 

Printing Press , 179 , A . R . St., Bombay - 3 
467 Miss Frony M . Dadabhoy, 85 - A , 

Nepcansea Road, Bombay , . 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 

Do . 
Do . 


2 ,96 ,952 
1 ,81, 317 
1,53,684 


1 , 13 , 909 


Do, 


9 ,04 ,873 


1966 -67 


1,06 ,765 
1,63, 736 


1962 - 63 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1941, 115 
1 ,61, 176 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


2 ,08,924 
1,62,810 


1 , 58 ,434 


Do . 


1, 10 ,582 


1966 -67 


1,86 , 100 


1 ,49, 281 


468 Fulchand Agarwal, Kalabadeyi Road , 

Bombay - 2 
469 G . A . Thiakkar, C /o M /s. J. Thakkar & 

C ). , IIC - A , M . G . Road , Bombay 
470 G . B , Vaderi, 177 , Girgaum Rd. , 

Bombay 
471 G . G , Mehtani, Prop. Cec Cee Milk Mills 

32 , Suleman Chambers , Battery St., 

Bombay - 5 
472 G . D . Gokhale , C /o Bombay Chemicals 

P , I . , 129 , M . G . Road , Bombay 
473 G . D , Solanki, C /o Standard Spares & 

Machinery Co., Bong Casa , Sir, P .M . 

Road , Bombay 
474 G . L . Kap jor, C /. M /s. Kapoor Eng ., 

Corp ., Sir P . M . Roa , Bombay . 
475 G . I ,. Vijan , C /o KL . Vijan & Co., N . H . 

Road , Bombay 
476 C . N . Joshi, 43 , Chowpatty Rd., 

Bombay 
477 G . N . Shah , C /o Motor Tradc Supply 

Co ., S , V . Roal, Bombay 
478 G . P . Kapadia, C /o M /s. G . P . Kapadia & 

Co., Hamam House, Hamam St., 

Bombay 
479 Girdhurllal Govindram , 379 - 81 Harzi 

Natha St. , Bombay 
480 Goculdas Ratangy , Clo M /s. Ranchoddas 

Odda & Co., 86 , P . B . St., Bombay . 


1,44 ,866 


1962- 63 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1, 03 ,751 


1 ,08 ,956 


1 ,29, 049 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


2 ,09 ,550 
1,06 ,604 
1,81,317 


» 


Do . 


- 2780 


THE C . IZETTE OF INDIA . JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part II – 


3 


4 


1 ,06 , 986 


1966 -67 

Do . 


2 , 35 ,470 
1,26 ,400 


1962-63 


Do. 


2 , 99 ,931 


481 Gopal R . Mchtani, C /o M /s. Wadhwani 

& Co., 17 / 19 , Dalal Street , Bombay Industrial 
482 M /s . Gupikunarı Birla , Birla House , 

Mount Pleasant Road , Bombay 
483 Gordhandas Mulji, Goumukh Gallu , M . ) . 

C Market , Bombay 
484 H . A . Abraham , Jer Manor, 3rd Pasta 

Lane , Colaba, Bombay 
485 H . B . Dubagh , Prop ., of Dubagh Frceres 

& Co. , Victoria Bldg. , P . B , Street , 

Bombay 
486 Mrs. H . B . Mehta, Executors of cstatc 

of late B . l . Mchta , 298 , B . G . St., 

Bombay 
487 H . C . Khatiwalla , C /o Hansa Dying & 

Printing Works, V . P . Road , Bombay 
488 H . D . Balani, 285 , Carnac Rd., Bombay 


1 ,02,656 


Do . 


1 ,26 ,505 


Do . 


Do, 


1 , 17 , 479 
1, 54 , 441 
1 , 17 , 391 


1964 - 65 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1, 42, 931 
1,43 ,316 


489 H . D . Jotimalanı, V . N . Road , Bombay 
499 H . K . Bhavnani, Peari Mansion , 4th 

Floor, Queen s Road, Bombay 
491 H . K . Kesharwalla , 305, Narsi Mehta 

St., Bombay 
492 H . K . Vora, C /o Vora Bros., Fateh Manzil 
Opera House , Bombay 

· 


3 ,77,695 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,43,880 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


1 ,05 ,017 
1, 14 , 474 
1 ,42,017 
1 ,71, 168 


1962 -63 

Do . 
. Do, 


1, 16 , 532 
1 , 20 ,727 
1 , 56 , 875 


493 Mrs . H . M . Adocok , 80 , Neapean Sea 

Road , Bombay 
494 H . M . Dalal, Nepcangca Road , Bombay 
495 H . M . Gurnani, Picket Road , Bombay 
496 H . N . Socervai, Chamber No. 4 , High 

Court, Bombay 
497 H . M . Mehta , Ali Chambers , Tamarind 

Lanc, Bombay 
498 H . T . Dolwani, C / o Standard Garrage , 

Mody Chambers, Cannedy Bridge , 
Bombay . . . 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 , 05 , 002 
1,20, 664 


1963 - 64 
1962 -63 


1 ,64 ,355 


I , 35,219 


4 , 50 , 000 


499 Hamid Abdul Kadar , clal M . Abdullay , 

94 , Kambekar St ., Bombay 
500 Hangra ) Vallabhadas , 387 - 389 Nargi 

Natha St., Bombay 
501 Harbans Singh , C /o United Spring Mfg . 

Co. , 82 , Opera House , Bombay 
502 Haridas Hollaram , 387 -89, Narsi 

Natha St ., Bombay 
503 Harilal Thakersey , Gopal Galli , M . J . 

Market, Bombay 
504 Hartschandra V . Parakagh , Prop. M /s. 

Harishchandra & Co ., A . R . Street, 

Bombay 
505 Princess Haragal Kumari, Bailal Yumn, 

Sophia Collge Lane , Off, Warden Rd., 

Bombay 
506 Executors to the estate of Şir Harginghji 

of Jammu & Kashmir 


1965-66 
1962 -63 

1963 -64 
1962-63 
1965 - 66 


1,50, 780 
1,04 ,685 
1,66 , 291 


1, 16 , 231 


1962- 63 


1 , 39 ,762 


1964 - 65 


1,24,933 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


3942 , 980 
3 , 36 , 142 
3 , 30 ,061 
7 , 36 ,883 


Sec. $ ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2781 


O 


bav 


, 


Industrial 


1,78 ,434 


1965 -66 
1962-63 


1 , 08 ,198 


507 Bui Ilazrabai A . Rehman , Dharumaraj 

Galli, M . J. C . Market, Bombay 
508 Himatlal Dharmışey, 254 , Argyle Road, 

Bombay 
509 Himarlal M . Parekli , Govind Chowk , 

M . J. C . Market, Bombay 
510 Himatlal Manilal Mehta , 346 , Kalbadevi 

Road , Bonbay - ? 
su Himatlal N . Doshi, Prop ., of Himatlal & 

Co . , Swadeshi Market , 124 , Radha 
Gally , Bombay - 2 


Do . 


1 ,31, 079 


1948- 49 


2 ,82 , 103 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 70 ,498 
1 ,60 ,650 


1962- 63 

Do. 


1, 10 ,490 
1,66 , 384 


512 Hinatlul T . Shah , Prop . of Himatlal & Co ., 

19 /21, Haniani St. , Bombay , 
513 Hiralal Chhaganlal , M /s . Chhagantal & Co., 

192, Argyle Rd., Bombay 
514 Hiralal Chhaganlal, 9 , Stock Exch . Bldg. 
Bombay 

. . . . 
515 
Stó Hiralal Motilal, Yusuf Bldg., Bombay 
517 Hiranand Hassamal, Prop , M /s . Hassamal 

Bros., 538 , Kalbadevi Rd. , Bombay - 2 
518 Homi F . Mehra , 79 / 91, Apollo St., Fort , 

Bombay 


Do. 
Do . 


2 , 16 , 304 
1, 40 ,316 
1 ,72 , 398 
1 ,02 , 185 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


3 , 54 ,423 


1960 -61 
1964-65 
1965 -65 
1962 -63 


1,74,336 
2 , 30, 560 
1, 30, 193 


519 


I, N . Bajaj, 23 - 4 , Dongersoy Rd., 

Bombay . . . 


1 , 19 ,155 


1963-64 
1962 -63 


1, 16 ,524 


520 1. N . Sharına , Clo M /s. Arc Brazers , Forbes 

Road , Bombay 
521 Indersingh Bajaj, 384, Kalbadevi Road , 
Bombay - 2 

HUF . 
522 Indrakumar Doshi, C /o M /s . Standard 

Sales Corpn ., Swadeshi Market, 
Bombay - 2 

Industrial 
523 Indulal G . Laklia , Prop , of M /s . Indulal & 

Co., 45, Tamarind Lanc , Bombay , , 


1966 - 67 


1954 - 55 
1955 -56 
1956 - 57 


1, 35 ,353 
1,57,450 
1, 36 , 180 
1,49,673 


524 J. A . Sablımala , V . N . Road , Bombay . 


, 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 14 ,294 
1 , 13 , 330 


1966 -67 


1 ,01,857 


Do , 


1962 -63 


525 J. B . Gotla , C /o M /s . British Mills Stores 

C /o Vitkaldas Chambers , Bombay . 
526 J. B . Ranga , High Court, Bombay 
527 J. B . Wadia , Nepeansca Rd., Bombay 
528 J . C . Bhair , Fort Chambers , Doon Lane, 

Bombay 
529 J, D . Lumgari, 109 - A . Q . H . Lane , 

Bombay - 2 
530 T. J. Desai , L . K . Markct , Bombay 
531 J. E . E . Sasson , 3, Fazal Rd., Colaba, 

Bombay 


1 , 96 ,956 
1,74 ,817 
1, 15 ,718 


1966 -67 


1 , 39 ,684 


1962 -63 

Do, 


1, 04 , 962 


1966 -67 


1,75 ,267 


532 J. K . Seervai, Beau Rivage, 36 , Warden 

R 1 ., Bonbay 
13 J. M . Ramnathkar, Grant Rd ., 

Bombay 
534 Latc J. M . Scindia of Gwalior, Samudra 
Mahal, Worli, Bombay : : 

Do . 
535 

: 


DU. 
1965- 66 


1 ,24 ,800 
1,65 ,664 


HUF 


1962 - 63 

Do , 


6 , 55 , 551 
19 , 10 , 122 


2782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTUA 18. 1890 


[ PART 11 


536 J. R . Gagrat , Clo M /s . Gagrat & Co ., 

Ali Chambers , Tamarind Lane , 
Bombay 

, 
537 J. R . Nair , 14 /3 413 -G , Vagantwadi 

Kalbadevi Road , Bonihay -2 . 


Industrial 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,00 ,525 
1 ,31,330 


1962- 63 
1963- 64 


8 , 46 ,070 
8 ,68,648 


1966- 67 


1,00 ,436 


538 1. S . Kakalia , Co Western India Stationery 

Co . Khctwadi B , K , Road , Bombay . 
539 J . T . Dolwani, Co Standard Garrage , 

Mody Chumbers , Cannady Bridge 
Bombay 


" 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1 , 94 ,693 
2 ,37, 109 


540 J. V , Parekh , Co Kala Niketan Quççn s 

Road , Bombay 


1962- 63 
1963 -64 


1 .99, 731 
2 , 52 , 970 


1962-63 


1, 26 , 554 


541. JadhavjiD . Parikli , C / O M / s, Shishir & Co .. 

1963 , Naravan Dhuiu St. , Bombay 
542 Jagdish U . Thackersey by his father Shri 

U . M . D . Thackersey , Slı Vithaldas Cham 
hers , 16 , Apollo St., Bombay 


1964 - 65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 , 26 ,421 
1 ,74 ,719 
1 , 35 ,023 


1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 


1 , 00 , 000 
6 , 00 , 000 


543 Jagnath Maheshwaji , 31, l Orbes St., Bom 
bay , 

. . HUR 
544 Jaikisondas Maganlal, C /o M /s. Kanchan 

lal M . & Co . New Hanuman Lanc, Bom 

bay - 2 . . 
545 Jal H . Mehra.Mehta House ,Apollo Street, 

Bombay 


1965 -66 


1 ,04 , 120 


1964 -65 
1965-66 


2 ,48,245 
3 , 24 , 130 


1964-65 
Igr2- 63 
1965-66 


1,05,615 
1,04 ,738 


1,00 , 203 


-546 Jul J. Guzdur, Shaic Bazai, Dalal SETCC1, 

Bombay , : 
547 Jal S . Engineers, Kheriadi, 8th Lune, 

Bombay . 
548 Jannadas Maganlal, C /o M /s. Kanchlal M . 

& Co , New Iłanuman Lane, Bombay- 2 
549 Jamantla ) Mutubhai, C /O M /s . Matubhai 

Jamierram & Madan , Lentin Chambers , 
Dalal Strcet, Bombay . 

Indi. 
550 Jayagukhlal D , Parikh , C, o Mis, Shishir & 

Co., 163 , Naruyan Dhuru Street, Bom 
551 Sint. Jayashri (1. Ludiwala , United India Bldg ., 

Sir P . M . Road , Bombay , 
552 Jchangir B . Jeejeebhoy , Ridge Rd., Bom 

bay 
553 Jehangir F . Guzdar, Old Share Bazar, 

Dalal St ., Bombay. . . . . ” 


1966- 67 


1 , 15 , 140 


bay 


1, 15,746 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


1,25,932 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


1,05, 153 
1, 49 ,884 
1 , 19,825 
1 ,23,484 
1 . 13 ,362 


554 Master Jehar git H . C . Jehangir , V . N . Rd., 

Bombay 
555 Smt. JiwantikabaiGirdhacılal, 94, Marino 

Drive, Bombay 
556 K . C . Nayar, 413 -G ., Vasantwadi, Kalba ? 

deviRd ., Bombay 
557 K . C . Sheth , Comis. Taxoin India Agen 

Ly ,Mcdows St. , Bombay . , . Indl. 


1964-65 
1962-63 
Do, 


1 , 11,217 
1,58, 100 
7 :65, 122 
1, 29, 770 
1 ,02 ,710 


1963 -64 
1964-65 


SF.C.3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2783 


3 


4 


5 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Indl. 


1,00 , 970 


HUF 


1962-63 
1963 -64 

Do. 


8 ,43 ,023 


Indi. 


1 ,73, 155 


1966 -67 


1,05,520 


558 K . H . Shah , C om s, Theropatic Pharma 

ceutical Products , Proctor Road , Bom 

bay . 
559 K . L . Nayar, 413 - G , Vagantwadi, Kalba 

devi Road , Bombay - 2 
560 K . M . D . Thackcrscy , 16 , Apollo St., Bom 

hav 
561 K . M . Kapadia , Clo M s. G . P . Kapadia & 

Co.,Hamam House, Hamam Street 

Bombay . 
562 K . M . Zaveri, C o ChimmanlalManchand , 

327 , S . V . P ,Road , Bombay , , 
563 K . N . Javeri, V . N . Road , Bombay . 
564 K . N . Nasir , C O M s , N . R . Nasir & Sons 

141 - 143 , Now Stock Exchange Bldg ., 

Bombay 
565 Smt. K . P , Darumala , Lantin Court, Strand 

Road , Colaba , Bombay- 5 . 
566 K . P . Menon , Clo M / s. Theropatic Phar 

maceuticals Products , Proctor Road , 

Bombay 
567 K . S . Mehta , C /o Industrial Minerals & 

Chemicals Co ., 125 , Narayandhru St., 
Bombay 


1962-63 
1964-65 


1 , 25 , 962 
1 , 30 ,437 


1, 11 ,600 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


2 , 76 ,911 


Do. 


1,85, 589 


1963 -64 
1964-65 
1966 -67 


1 :06 ,377 
2 , 47 , 800 
1 :89 , 990 


568 K . T . Divecha, 24 - 26 , Dalal St., Bombay 
569 Dr. K . T . Dholakia , French Bridge, Bom 

buy . . . . . . 


1 , 06 , 484 


1964- 65 
1965- 66 
1956-67 


1 ,61,349 


1 ,57, 511 


1962-63 


1,09,854 


3 , 00 ,749 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


1 ,03,001 


2 , 11,53 


1965-66 


1 ,63,304 


1962- 63 
1963 -64 


1 , 15 ,307 
1 , 30 ,238 


570 K . T . Shahani, C /o K . T . Shahani & Co., 

Khorash :d Bldg ., Sir P . M . Road , 

Bombay 
571 K . U . Advani, by his L . H . Smt, Mohini 

K . Advani, Agakhan Bldg ., Dalal St., 

Bombay 
572 K . V . Bolani, 32 , Shrof Mangion , Prin 

cess St ., Bombay . 
573 Kahatau Gordhandas , Iron Market , 

Bombay 
574 Smt, Kamala D . Chia , IndustrialAssurance 

Bldg ., Opp . Churchgate Station , 

Bombay 
575 Mrs , Kamalabon N . Parckh , Princess sti , 

Bombay 
576 Mrs. Kamalakumari, 321, Commerce 

House , Medoas St. , Bombay 
577 KanchanlalMaganlal, C /O M /s . Kanchan 

Jal Magandal & Co ., New Hanuman Lane 

Bombay - 2 . , . . 
578 Kanchanlal Vedilal, Mangaldas Road, 

Bombay . 
579 Kanji Pitamber, V . N .Rd ., Bombay . . 
580 Mrs . Kanta K . Vasa , E - 4 Mafatlal Park , 

Warden Rd ., Bombay . 
581 Kantilal Chunilal, 327, Norri Natha St., 

Bombay 
582 Kantilal Lallubhai,34, Nagdevi St., Bom 

bay 
583 Kantilal Narsi, c /o Narsi Mulji 
Bldg., M . B . R :1., Bw.nbay 

•. 

, 


1966 - 67 


1 , 00 , 946 


1965-66 


1,04,913 


1966 -67 
1963 - 64 


1 , 20 , 780 
1 , 04 , 272 


1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 · 


1 , 10 ,657 
1, 05, 680 


1 ,13, 775 


1962 -63 
1965- 66 
1965 - 66 


1 ,51 , 500 


>> 


1 ,01, 351 


2784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II – 


1962 -63 


1 , 14 , 212 


1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1, 17 , 406 
1 , 14 , 821 


Bombay 


1965 - 66 


1,55 , 971 


1966 -67 


1 ,19,060 


Do. 


1 , 10 , 266 


584 Keshavlal Dharansey, Krishnaraj Galli, 
Mulji Jotha Market, Bombay , 

Indi. 
585 Keslavla ]Mulji Ashar, Dadar Galli,Mulji 

Jetha Market , Bombay : : : " 
586 Khushaldus J. Mehta , 77 , Nagdevi Sircet, 
587 Kishingopal Birdichand , c /o Ms. Radhawall. ” 

abh Kabra , Kalbadevi Road , Bom 
bay - 2 

HUF 
. 
588 Lady Kusuin H Kania , so , Ridge Rd ., 
Bombay 

Indl. 
589 Smt. Kusum J. Kapadia , 16 , Apollo St., 

Bombay 
590 L . C . Modi, C /o Ms. Modi & Modi Co ., 

16 , Hamun St ., Bombayarwadi Kalba 
591 L , D . Nayar, 413 - G , Vasantwadi, Kalba 

deviRoad , Bombay - 2 . . . 
592 Do, 

HUF 
593 L . G . D . Silva , Plot No. 236 , T .P .S . III, 
30th Rd., Bandra Bombay , 

Indl. 
594 L . V . Apte ., Govind Chowk , Mulji Jetha 

Market, Bombay 
595 M /s . L . Chaturbhuj & Co ., Prop . Shri 

Chaturthuj Khemchand , 7th Batta 
House , S . B . Road Bombay . . 


1 ,21,298 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1, 30 ,448 
9 ,78 ,316 
10 , 52 , 576 
3 ,58 ,069 
2 ,65,545 


1,00 .006 


1964 -65 
1962-63 


2 , 27 .706 


1959 -60 
1960 -61 


3 , 54 ,700 
5 ,67, 500 


596 Lala Daulatram Dinanath , Prop. Duulatram 

Dinanath , Vasantwadi, Bombay - 2 . 


» 


1962- 63 


1 ,35,040 


HUT . 


1,01,205 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


Indl, 


1 ,54 , 286 


597 Lalji Dharaniscy , 32 , L . K . Market, 

Bonībay 
598 Lilachand Gulabchand , 379 -81, Narsi 

Natha St., Bombay . 
599 H . H . Maharaja Lukhdhirji of Morvi by 

his administrator , Warden Rd., Bom 
600 Lalchand Prabhudas , c o M /s. Royal 

Pharmaceutical, Ltd ., 52 - 58 , New Hanu 

man Land, Bombay - 2 
601 M . B . Madgaonkar, C /o M /s . Thakurdas 

Madgaonkar & Co ., Fort, Chambers , 
Dcan Lanc, Bombay . . . 


bay 


. 


. 


1948 - 49 


2 ,67,598 


1962- 63 


1,85,395 


1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1 , 22, 423 
1,34, 484 


1962 -63 

Do. 


1 , 25 , 509 
1, 90 ,857 


Do . 


1 ,09,509 


602 M . C . Patel, Prop , Rajat Stationery Mart, 

Khetwadi, Mn. Road , Bombay 
603 M . L . Aplc , Govind Chowk , M . J. C . Market. 

Bombay . 
604 M . L . Joshi, Prop. Egle Corp ., Palian Rd., 

Bombay 
605 Mrs . M . M . Parckh , " Skylarkh " , Little 

Gibbs Rd . , Bombay 
606 M . N . Cama, Chambers, Medows 

St., Bombay . . . . . 
607 M . P . Laud , Chamber No. 6, High Court, 

Bombay 
608 M . P .Maheshwari, Maheshwari Mansion , 

36 , Nepeansca Rd ., Bombay 


Do. 


1 ,56 ,785 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,58 , 900 
1, 86 , 555 


1965 -66 


1,30 , 569 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 


1 ,37 ,115 
1 ,94, 915 
1 , 06 , 375 


609 Exze, of late Shri M , R , Adenwalla Kymo . 

ing , Little Gibbs Rd ., Bombay . . 


1962 -63 


2 ,31,033 


SEC. 8 (in) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2785 


1965 -66 

Do . 


1 ,25,715 
1 ,21 ,749 


1966 - 67 


1946 , 630 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


2 , 53, 564 
2 ,64, 141 


610 Mrs . M . R . Dubash , Nepeansca Road , 
Bombay , 

Indl. 
611 M . R . Modi, Manekji Wadia Bldg., Bell 

Lane, Bombay .. 
612 M . R . Pappia , Bar-ar - law , C OM /s. Natubhai 

Jamictram & Nanda, Lentin Cham 

bers , Dalal St., Bombay , , , , 
613 M . R . Pomal C / M /s. LaxmiMotor Co., 

Avantikabai Gokhale Rd. , Bombay. . 
614 M . R . Shah , C /o M /s. N . R . Shah & Co ., 

64 -66 , Gurgaum Rd ., Bombay , . 
615 M . R . Thadani, V . N . Rd. , Bombay . 
616 M . R . Tolia Clo M / s. Mawani & Co., 

Grant Road , Bombay . 
617 M . S . Doshi, Prop . Sudan Trading Co. , 

Dhannur, Sir P . M . 114 , Bombay . . 
618 M . S . Kalbag, 304 , Lamington Rd., Bom 

bay . 
619 M . S. Kasbokar , Proctor House , Proctor 

Roud . , Bombay . . . . . 


1962 -63 


Do . 


1 , 79 ,219 
1, 50 , 162 


1 ,21, 122 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1966 - 67 


1,48 ,442 


1,08, 179 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


I , I1, 153 
1, 67,230 


620 M . S . Mathwani, Clo Kale Niketan , 

Queen s Rd ., Bombay . . . . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


2 ,01,487 
2 , 55, 901 
1, 16 , 166 
1 , 17,655 


621 M . S . Patol, CloM /s.GeneralMachinery , 

Stores, 24 BD Hamam St., Bombay . . 
621 M . Sivaramakrishnan , 82 -86 , A . R .St., 

Bombay , 
623 M . T . Kamder, CloChampion Auto Parts, 

Avantikabai GokheloRd .,Bombay . . 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1962 -63 


2 ,56 ,074 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 , 19 ,519 
1, 11 ,894 
1, 47 , 197 


624 


M . T .Muccadum , C /o M / s . IndustrialElec . 

Engy. Co . IO , Hamam St., Bombay . . 


» 


1963- 64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 13 , 930 
1 , 56 , 134 
2 ,00 ,586 
2 , 79 ,707 


629 Smt. M . V . Parckh , Legal heir oflate Shri 

V . M . Parekh , Clo Botilbhoy & Co., 

Forbes St ., Bombay . 
626 M . V .Ramnathkar, Grant Rd., Bombay. 
627 Exccutors of the Estate of late H . H . 

Maharaja of Jammu & Kashmir. 
628 Exccutors of the Estate of H . H . the late 

Maharaja Mahendrasinghjl of Morvi, 
Warden Rd ., Bombay . . . . 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1,38,615 
1,08,248 
2 , 15 , 235 
1 ,38,476 


1966 - 67 


1949 - 50 
1961 -62 
1962 -63 


2 ,62,670 
3 ,06 , 335 
3 , 27 , 397 


629 Mahendra Mathuradas, II , Bank Street, 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


1, 17, 976 
1 , 92 , 710 
2 ,40 , 102 
2 ,02 , 548 
2 , 16 , 169 


630 Mahesh Bhogilal, 7 , Forbes St., Bombay . 
631 Mrs. Malti N . Thakkersey , Damodar 

Bhavan , Warden Rd. , Bombay . . . 


1963- 64 
1962 -63 


1 , 13 , 129 
1 ,03,353 


632 ManekjiNarsi, Clo NarsiMulji Co ., Gaya 

Bldg. , M . B . Rd ., Bombay . . 
633 Manilal Mehra , C / O M /s . Krishnaprasad 

Bros., 336 - A , KalbadeviRoad , Bombay - 2 


1965 -66 
1062-63 


1,02 ,352 
2 ,46 , 266 


2786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART II 


Indl. 


634 Mrs . Mayadevi Ramchand , Prop. M /8 . 

Bhagwandas Ramchand, A . R . St., 

Bombay . 
635 MohomedalllGulsmhussein , C /OM /s.Nash 

& Co. 106 , A . R . St., Bombay . . 
636 Mohanlal Motilal, Yusuf Bldg ., Bombay . 


1962 -63 


3 ,06 ,723 


1965 - 66 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,02 , 179 
1, 93 , 163 
I , I1,243 
1 , 76 ,619 


2 , 04 , 160 


637 Moora Kassam , 66 -69 Mohamedali Road . 

Bongbay . 
638 BaiMotibai M . D . Thackersey , Sir Vithal 

das Chambers, 16 ,Apolle St., Bombay.. 
639 Mukul Harklshandas, Stock Exchange 

Bldg ., Bombay . 
640 Mukund Mathuradas , Mukund Mansion , 

Laburgum Rd., Bombay . . . . 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1965- 66 


3 , 26 , 722 
1 ,01,098 


1 , 14 , 737 


1964 - 65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1,67, 087 
1, 84 , 744 
1941, 040 


1962- 63 


1 , 17 ,716 


641 Mulchand Khairam , Prop . M /s . Hindustan 

Storos , 2 / 46 Babula Tank Rd. , Bombay . 
642 Mulchand Manal , 1, C /OM / g . M .Nanalai & 

Co., 162 -Radhagalli, Swadeshi Market , 
Bombay - 2 . . 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 19 ,287 
1,41, 926 
1 ,40 , 351 
1 ,43 ,910 
1, 08 , 120 


1 , 17 ,473 


4 , 41, 985 


643 Muljibhai Chaganlal , Chandra Chowk , 

M . J . C . Mkt ., Bombay . . 
644 N . A . Palkiwala , High Court, Chamber 

No. 3 , P . W . D . Annexe , Bombay. 
645 N . B . Jcejeebhoy, " The Cliff ” , Ridge Road , 

Bombay . 
646 N . B . Jhavari , 26 - A , Ridge Rd., Bombay . 
647 N . C . Javeri, V , N . Rd ., Bombay. 
648 N . Dandekar , Southlands , 177 , Upper 

Colaba , Bombay. - 5 . 
649 N . L . I. Mathias, Vasundhara, Warden 

Road , Bombay . . . 
650 N . M . Daru , Trustees ofPrakash A . Mody 

(Minor) C / M /s. Dary Hemani& Co., Ali 

Chambers, Temarind Lane Bombay . 
651 N . M . Irani, 72 , Bucktawar , Narayan Da 

borkar Rd. , Bombay . 


1962- 63 
1966 - 67 
1962- 63 

Do. 
1964 -65 
1966 - 67 
1965 - 66 


1 ,07, 101 
1 , 59 ,694 
2 , 16 ,053 
1 ,07 ,800 


1, 32 , 342 


Do. 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1964 -65 


1, 45 ,029 
1 ,06 , 152 
1 , 07 ,033 
1,96 ,448 


1, 13 ,825 


1966 - 67 

Do. 


2 , 93 ,351 
1, 18 ,456 


652 Dr. N . N . Purandharc , 4 , Chowpatty Sca 

face , Bombay . . . . . 
653 N . P . Sanghani, Ali Chambers , Tamarind 

Lane, Bombay 
654 N . P . Whadia , 70 , Forbes St., Bombay . . 
653 N . R . shah , Co Ms. N . R . Shah & Co. , 

64 /66 , Cirgaumn Rd ., Bombay . . 
656 N . S . Paterphekar, Bank St., Bombay. . 
657 N . S . Shah , C / o Industrial Minerals & 

Chemicals Co., 125, Narayandhru St., 

bay. . . . . . 
658 Nagji Dullabfi, Old Hanuman Lanc, 

Bombgy - 2 , 
659 Mrs. Nandini R . Meier, United India 

Building , sir P . M . Rd . , Bombay . . 


1962 -63 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1, 78 ,657 
1 , 56 , 266 
1 , 90 , 565 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1, 31, 532 
2 , 72, 130 


1, 15 ,542 


1962- 63 
:: 66 - 67 


>> 


1,44 ,749 


tro . 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2787 


- 


3 


4 


5 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Indl. 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 


1, 37,708 
1,69, 706 


" 


1 , 50 ,252 


660 Nandlal Keshavji, Govind Chowk, M . J. C . 

Mkt., Bombay. 
661 M /s. National Bngineering Industries, 32 , 

JairajbhaiLanc, Bombay . , 
662 Natwarlal Ochhavlal, 34 , Nagdovi si, 

Bombay . . . . . . 
663 Niranjan Chimanlal Princess Stroet, Bom 

bay . . . . . . . 
664 Omprakash Mahashwari, 1, Kala St., Port , 

Bombay . . . . 
665 P . C .N . Rocky , C /o M /s. Bharat Strax 

Board Mfg ., Co., 12 -Noble Chambors , 

P . B . St., Bombay . . 
666 P . C . Varma, Janmabhoomi Chambers , 

Fort St., Bombay . . . . . 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 37 ,431 
1 ,36 ,782 


1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 


1 , 00 , 000 
6 , 00 , 000 


1962 - 63 


1 ,81, $ 33 


1958 - 59 
1959 -60 
1963 -64 


1, 73 , 129 
, 1 ,79,460 
3 ,01. 506 


1966 -67 
1963-64 
1962 -63 


1,16,996 
1,87,260 


1, 92 , 175 


1965 - 66 


1 ,04 ,870 


1963 -64 

Do. 
1966 -67 


1,01,299 
4 , 11, 587 
2 ,71 , 708 
1 , 66 ,357 


Do . 


667 P. H . Shah, 2- B , Mofatlal Park , Warden 

Rd., Bombay . . 
668 P . M . D . Thackerscy , Sir Vithaldas Chan 

bers , 16 , Apollo St ., Bombay- 1 . 
669 P . N . Shah , Indo Chemical Co ., 109 , Gay 

Bldg ., M . B . Road, Bombay , 
670 Smt, P . P . Bhimii, C OM /s . Industrial Elect . 

Bagy. Co., 10 , Hamam St., Bombay . 
671 P . P . Shah , Indo Chemical Co ., 109, Gaya 

Bldg ., M . B . Road , Bombay . 
672 P . Reinhurt , 19 , Graham Rd. , Bombay - ) . 
673 P . S . Mistry , 70 , Medow St., Bombay . . 
674 Pali S . Nariman , High Court, Bombay . . 
675 Smt. Pannadevi Jain , Panhar World, 

Bombay - 18 . . 
676 Paramanand Hollaram , 387 - 89 Narsi Natha 

St., Bombay . . 
677 Paranjay V . Hasrat, cio Hasrat & Co ., 

Warden Road , Sir , P . M . Rd., Bombay . 
678 Paragram Pahilrajrai, Picket Rd ., Bombay . 
679 Parmanand Pitambardag, 26 , Shroff Man 

sion , Princc99 St., Bombay 
680 Pargram Tolaram , Prop . Sunlight Traders 

126 , Chakla St ., Bombay . . 
681 Poras A .Mehta , High Court , Bombay . . 
682 Prabhulal Tulsidas , 332 , Narsi Natha St., 

Bombay. 
Dal Praimilabai Mathuradas , Bank St., 

Bombay. 
684 Prakash K . Vasa, E -4 MafatlålPark ,Bom 

bay . 


1, 16 ,020 


1962 - 63 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


1945, 199 


1 , 76 , 923 
1 , 45 , 122 


1966 -67 


1,49 , 904 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 


1 ,47,020 
1 ,01, 102 


" 


2 , 77 , 238 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,45, 902 


1 ,67, 999 
1 ,59 ,420 


1965-66 


1, 00 , 999 


685 Prakashchandra Ochaylal, KrishnarajGalli , 

Bombay . 
686 Pramodchandra Motilal, Chandra Chowk , 

Bombay . . . . . . 
687 Pratap Dialda8, 40 , Princess St., Bombay . 
688 Pratapchand Mitorsain , C / M /8 .Miterrain 

Rupchand, 336 - A , Kalbadevi Road, 

Bombay - 2 . 
689 Prataprai K . Mehta, 77,Nagdevi št., 

Bombay . , , , , , 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 - 63 


1 , 35 ,644 
1 ,63 , 263 
3 ,81, 433 


1965 -66 

Ꭰ0 . 


1, 34 ,078 
2 .07. 10 


2788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART II 


690 Pratip K . Vora, C /o Vora Bros., Fatch 

Mansil, Opera House , Bombay . . , 


Indi. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,05 ,017 
1 , 14 ,474 
1 ,42,057 
1 ,68 , 168 


1962 - 63 
Do. 


1 ,21, 364 
1 , 59 , 595 


691 Pravlochandra HemrajNaviGalli, M . J. C . 

Market , Bombay . 
692 PrayinkantKeshaylal,Goumukh Galli, 

Do. 
693 Pravir V . Hazrat,Clo Hazrat & Co., Warden 

House , Sir P . M . Road , Bombay . 
694 Lady Premlile V . Thackersey , 16 , Apollo 

St., Bombay . . 


Do. 


1, 76 ,982 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


2 ,02 ,291 
1 , 90 , 538 


1, 56 ,342 
1 ,32 ,882 
1 , 12 ,569 
1, 70 ,471 


695 Purshottamdas Kalyandas , Ali Chambers , 

Tamarind Lene , Bombay . . 
696 Pushpamalar M . D . Thackerscy , 16 , Apollo 

St., Bombay . 
697 B . A . Gagrat, C /o M /s. Gagrat & Co ., 

All Chamber , Tamarind Lanc , Bombay . 
698 The Trustees of late R . B . Kilachand 

Devchand Trust, 45 -47, Apollo St., 

Bombay 
699 R .B . Mawanai, C /o M /s. Mawanai & Co ., 

Grant Rd. Bombay 
700 R . C . Kapadia , Waterloo Mansion , Mayo 

Rd. , Bombay 
701 R . C . Purohit , 6 , French Bridge , Bombay 

R . D . Shroff , V . N . Rd., Bombay 
703 R . C . Nayar , 413 - G , Vasantwadi, Kalba - 

deyi Rd ., Bombay - 2 . 
704 R . H . Degai, 42, Wallkashwar , Rd . 

Bombay . 
703 R . H . Shah , M /s Tharopatop Pharmaceu 

tical Products , Proctor Rd ., Bombay . 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 

1963-64 
· 1964 -65 

1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1963 -64 


1, 16 ,429 
1, 28 ,080 
2 ,02 ,790 
1 , 14 , 902 
1 , 12 ,285 
1 , 14 ,476 
1 , 41 , 099 


, 


1,06 ,626 


1962 -63 

Do . 
Do. 


702 


1 ,05,096 
1, 30 , 963 
7 ,88 , 114 


HUF 


Do. 


704 R. devi Rayar, 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


11,08, 579 

1,00 ,492 


706 


R . W . Vora (Deceased ) C /o Vora Bros. , 

Fatech Mangil, Opera House, Bombay . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1 ,64,695 
1, 14 , 100 
1 , 24 , 121 
1,08 ,009 
1 , 26 ,803 
1 ,06 ,836 
1,53 ,683 


1 , 13 ,745 


1963- 64 

Do . 


1, 19 , 160 


Do , 


707 R . J . Patel , C /o Vijay Art Printers , 

Girgaum Rd., Bombay 
708 R . K . Mistry, C / 

O F . K . & R . K ., 
Mistry Court, D . W . Rd., Bombay . 
709 R , K . Saghi, 39 - A , Hughes Road , 

Bombay . 
710 R , L , Sharma, C /O M / s Arc Brazers , 

Forbes Rd. , Bombay. 
711 R . M . Mehta, 58, Falkland Rd ., Bom 

bay . 
712 R . M . Nanavathi , Nanavathi Malial, 

Vithaldas Rd., Bombay . 
713 R . M . Ramanathkar, Grant Rd., Bom . 

bay . 
714 R . R . Tatel, C /o M /s General Machinery 

Stores , 24 BD Hamam St., Bombay . 
715 R . S . Mehta , Clo M / s Industrial Mine 

rals & Chemicals Co. , 125 , Nagdevi 

St. Bombay . 
716 R . Setlar , Bank Street, Bombay 
717 R . V . Joshi, Iron Market , Bombay 


1964-65 
1965 -66 
1962-63 


1, 37,060 
1 ,20 , 457 
1, 10 ,442 


1 ,00, 340 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 , 08 ,717 
2 , 44 , 186 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1965-66 


1 , 47 , 207 
1,65, 341 
1,01,683 


Sec . 8 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2789 


Indi. 


1,06 ,843 


1, 12 ,210 


1963 - 64 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 

Do, 


1, 24 ,454 


1 ,21, 274 


1962 -63 

Do. 


1 , 21,842 
1,43,797 


1, 13 , 470 


718 Smt. Radhadevi B . Mohatta , Mustafa 

Bldg ., Şir , P . M . Road. , Bombay. 
719 Ragunathprasad Badhiyal, 213 , Com 

merce House , Medows St. , Bombay . 
720 Rajan S . Shah , E - 4 , Mafatlal Park , 

Wardan R 1., Bombay , 
721 Smt. Rajani S . Patel, United India , Bldg , 

Sir P . M . Rd., Bombay , 
722 Rajavalli Gulamhussein , 116 , Abdul 

Rehman St., Bombay . 
723 Sardar Rajagingh Sethi, Prop . Delta 

Products , Corp ., (India ) 3 , Mody Cham 

bers , French Bridge , Bombay . 
724 Rumanlal Manilal , 46 , Nakhoda St., 

Bombay . 
725 Rainchand Jethmal , Abdul Rehman 

St., Bombay . 
726 Ramdas Kilachand, 45 – 47, Apollo St., 

Bombay - 7 . 
727 Rainkumar Jwaladutt, 305 , KalbadeviRd . 

Bombay - 2 . 
728 Rainlubhaya R . Mehra , C /o M /s Lach 

minday Ramgopal, Chandra Chowk , 

M . G . Market, Bombay - 2 . 
729 Ramnath Daga , 18 /22 , Sk . Memon St., 

Bombay . 
730 Ramniklal Cohavlal, Krishnaraj Galli, 

M . J . C . Market, Bombay . 
731 Ranchhodas Jethabhai, 262- 70 , Narsi 

Natha St., Bombay . 
72 Rasiklal Mankcial, C /o M /s Rasiklal 

Maneklal St., Éxch , Bldg ., Dalal St., 
Bombay . 


1964 -65 
1963-64 
1962 -63 


1,18 ,246 
1,28 ,038 
1,96 ,068 


Do . 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1,31, 433 
1 ,64 , 160 
1,37, 740 
1 , 08 , 830 
4 , 20 ,553 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


2 ,08, 310 
2 ,85 , 738 
1,38 , 481 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


| 1, 75 ,403 
1,29,489 


1 ,01, 394 


1, 37, 843 


733 Ratilal Mulchand , D -vkaran Mansion , 

Princes St., Bombay . 
734 Mrs. Rhoda A . Parekh , Nepeansex Road , 

Bombay . . 
735 Smt. Rhoda Jal Mehta , 79 -91 Apollo 

St., Bombay . 
736 Mrs. Rodaban Sawhney, Sophia College 

Lanc, Chowpatty , Bombay, 
737 Roshanlal K . Gupta , 74 , Bhajipala St., 

Bombay . 
738 Rupchand Mitergain , Co M Mltersala 

Rapchand, 336 - A , Kalbadevi Rd. , Bom 

bay - 2 . 
739 Rusi H . Patel, Kasturi Bldg., Bombay. 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1964-65 
1965- 66 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1954 -55 


1 , 15 ,811 
1 ,05,405 
1 , 10 ,292 
1, 19 , 597 
1,48 ,067 


1965- 66 


1 , 17,415 


1964-65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 


1, 20 , 818 
1,66 ,801 
1 ,74, 713 
1 ,06 ,841 


1965- 66 
1962-63 

Do , 


1 ,05 , 766 
1,63, 809 
1 ,45 , 760 


Do, 


1, 16 , 572 


740 Rusi N . Kanga, M /s _ New India Sani 

tation , Bruce St., Bombay . 
741 S . A . Sabhawala , V . N . Road , Bombay. 
742 S . B . Sethi, 12 , Rampart Row , Bombay . 
743 S . C . Igraml, 421, Lamington Rd . , 

Bombay . 
744 S . C . Jhaveri, 85 -A , Nepeangca Rd ., 

Bombay . 
745 S . C . Poddar , Stock Exchange Bldg ., 

Dalal St. , Bombay . 
746 S . C . Sheth , ito , Medows St., Bombay . 
747 S . D . Vimillal, Gulestan , New Cuff 

Parade , Colaba , Bornbay - 5 . 
748 S . G . Mehra , C /O M /s Şamrat Silk 

Mills , Jambulwadi, Bombay -2 . 


Do , 


4 ,41,674 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


1 , 04 , 764 
1,21 , 126 


1963-64 


1, 36 ,713 


2790 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


THE GAZE 


[PART II 


A 


Indl. 


749 S. H . Bhagwati, 43, Porbes St., BO - 

bay . 
750 Dr. S . J. Mehta, Lamington Rd , Bom 

bay. 
751 S . J. Shah , 28 , Apollo St., Bombay . 
752 S . K . Nicholson , V . N . Road , Bombay . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1966 -67 


1,05,530 
1, 19 , 167 
1,66, 726 


1 ) 


» 


1963 - 64 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1, 19,463 
11, 22 ,473 

1 ,40 ,682 
1 ,65, 545 
1, 28 ,280 


753 S . M . Dubash , C /o M /s Gagret & Co ., 

Ali Chambers , Tamarind Lane, Bombay . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 53 , 966 
1, 16 , 581 
1, 12 ,398 
1, 59 ,674 
1, 87 , 531 
4 ,24,554 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1963-64 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 


1, 12 ,660 
1 ,65 ,659 
1 , 15 ,992 
1 ,01,655 
1 , 30 ,343 
1 ,27, 162 


, 


754 S . M . Gurnani, Picket Rd ., Bombay . 
935 . S . N . Mudhidri, Co Champion Auto 

Parts , Avantikabal Gokhale Rd., 

Bombay . 
756 S . P . Godrej, 40 , Ridge Rd ., Bombay . 
757 $ . P . Mehta , Sneh Sadan , Churchgate 

Reclmn. , Bombay . 
758 S . P , Mistry, 70 , Medows St., Bombay . 
759 $. S . Patel by hig Legal R , Shri M . S . 

Patel, Io , Hamam St., Bombay . 
760 S . T . Kataria , 323 - 25, A . R . St., Bombay , 
701 S . T . Manckiul, C /o M /o iviansklal & Co. 

Dinshaw Wacha Rd ., Bombay 
762 S . V . Gupte, 123 , M . G . Rd., Bombay . 
1763 Sagarmal Khimraj, C /o M /s J. K . & 

Sonş., 35 - A , New Hanuman Lane , 

Bombay - 2 . 
my64 Smt. Santosh Behal, Clo New Indo 

Trading Corp ., 1 / 5 , Baraji Şt., Bombay . 
765 Sardar Kahangingh Premsingh , 56 - A , 

Abdul Rellinan St., Bombay . 
766 Sardar Mehboob Singh , C / O M / Sahney 

Commercial Co ., Bastian Rd. , Bombay . 
767 Smt. Sarojaben S . Jhaveri , 16 , Apollo 

St., Bombay . 
768 Mrs . Sayitaben V . Shah , Horniman 

Circle , Bombay. 
709 Snub H . H . Karim Agakhan ( Through 

his constituted Attorney Shri A , s . 
Rahimtulle ) C / o M /s Mulla & Mulla & 
Craigie Blunt & Carce , SI, M . C . Rd. 
Bumbay . . 


1966 -67 
1962- 63 


2 , 45 ,857 
1, 14 ,428 


Do . 


1, 28, 748 


Do . 


Do. 


1,65,041 
2 ,66 ,120 
1 ,08 ,088 


1963 -64 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 16 ,669 
1, 10 , 107 
3 , 15 ,350 


1,46 ,249 


1962 -63 

Do. 


4 ,94, 001 


770 Shamlal Gulual , Old Atlas Mills Com 

pound , Regy . Rd ., Bombay . 
771 Smt. Shantaben T . Bedhaka, Legal re . .. 

presentative of late Shri T . M . Dadhcka * 
(Deod .) 31, Noble Chambers , P . B . St., .. . 

Bombay. 
772 Shantilal C . Dalal, 11 Bruce St. Bom 

bay . 
773 Shantilal Hakemchand , 124 , Radha Galli, 

SwadeshiMkt., Bombay - 2 . 
774 Shantilal Jamnadas,MadhayraiGalli , 

M . J. C . Mkt., Bombay , 


Do. 


1978 ,884 


1966 -67 


1, 64 , 940 


1962 -63 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1, 74 ,511 
1, 80 , 124 
1,38,484 
1,81, 100 


775 


Shantilal Vrajalal, Clo P . Vrajalal Dullabh 

das & Co., 43 , Forbes St . Bombay. 


1962 - 63 


1, 12 ,799 


Sxo. 8(L )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2701 


3 


Indl. 


1966 -67 


1 ,04,090 


Do . 
1965-66 


2 ,41,330 
[ 1,29, 365 


776 Master Shapoorli P . Mistry, by his guar 

dian M18 , P . P , Mistry " Windmere " 

Cuffe Parade, Colaba, Bombay . 
777 Mrs . Sharadadeyi Birla , Mount Pleasant 

Rd ., Bombay , 
778 Sharadkumar Mitersain , C /o M / s Miter 

sain Rupchand , 336 - A , Kalbadevi Rd., 

Bombay - 2 . 
779 Shersingh Bhandari, Sambheya Chem 

bers , Sir P . M . Road , Bombay . 
780 Shishir H . Parikh , Clo M /s. Shishir & 

Co., 163, Narayan Dhuru St., Bombay . 
781 Smt. Shirin R . Desri, Kismet Bldg., 3rd 

Pagta Lanc , Colaba , Bombay . 
782 Shyamkunder Goenka , Prop . of Indo 

Burma Trading Corporation , 259 , Kal 

badevi Road , Bombay - 2 . 
783 Somnath Motiram , 327 , Narsi Nath St., 

Bombay. 
784 Sudhir K . Vora , Clo Vora Bros., Fateh 

Manzil, Opera House , Bombay . 


1966 - 67 
1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 


1 ,09 , 992 
( 1, 13 ,646 
( 1,43,638 
[ 2 ,85, 700 


, 


Do . 


1, 30,898 


1963 - 64 
1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 
1966 - 67 


1 , 06 ,017 
1 , 14 ,474 
1 ,42 ,057 
1 , 71 , 168 
1 , 13 , 587 


, 


Do ." 


1,08,514 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 , 30 , 236 
1 ,47, 720 


1 


| 1, 82 ,540 


1962 -63 
Do. 


1 ,82 ,540 
1 ,04 , 249 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 


( 1,07, 960 
( 5 , 16 ,739 


1962 -63 


11, 33 , 979 


785 Suleman Cassam Mitha , 37 , Nakhoda St., 

Bombay . 
786 Mrs . Sunderbai H . P . Thakkarsey, 9 - B , 

Bomanji Petit Road , Cumballa Hill , 

Bombay . 
787 Sureschandra S . Doshi, c /o M / s. Standard 

Sales Corporation , Swadeshi Mkt., 

Bombay - z . 
788 Suresh Mahindra , c /o Mahindra & 

Mahindra Ltd ., Gatoway Bldg ., Apollo 

Bunder , Bombay. 
789 T . C . Dadlani, Prop . M / s . Dadlani Silk , 

Stores , Lions Down Rd., Colaba, 

Bomay - S . 
790 T . B . Kataria , 323 - 25A , R . St., Bombay, 
791 P . J . Lalwani, Prop . East & West Todg . 

Co ., Advani Chambers , Sir P . M . Rd. , 

Bombay. 
792 T . N . Mody, Prop . Phonex Machinery 

Agency , Girgaum Rd ., Bombay. 
793 T . S . Mchta , c /o IndustrialMinerals & 

Chemicals Co., 125 , Narayandhru St., 

Bombay . 
794 Taberall Eusufali, Grant Rd., Bombay . 
795 Thakersey Chaganlal, Gopal Galli, M . J. C . 

Mklt . , Bombay. 
796 Tulsidas Karamchand, Old Atlas Mill 

_ Compound , Resy Rd. , Bombay . 
797 Tilsidas Kilachand , 45 -47 , Apollo St., 

Bombay, 
798 U . M . D . Thackersay , 16 , Apollo St., 

Bombay , 
799 V . D , Mehta , c / o M / s Amarchand & Man 

galdas & Malvi Ranchhoddas & Co ., 

Yusuf Bldg. , M . G . Rd . , Bombay . 
800 V . J. Asher, clo M /s V . J. Asher, 

TO , Bruce St. , Fort, Bombay . 
801 V . K . Nair , 175 , C . S ., Track Road , 

Kalina, Santacruz , Bombay . 
802 V . S . Iyar , c /o M /s Iyer s Advertising 

& Marketing, Churchgate, Bombay. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 , 20, 826 
2 , 57 , 281 


1964 -65 
1966 - 67 
1965 - 66 


1 ,05, 722 
1 , 06 , 700 
1 ,32390 


1962-63 


1 ,99, 643 


Do . 


1 , 34 , 168 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


1 , 52 , 110 
1 , 98 , 400 
1 ,01, 903 


1962 -63 


1, 53, 796 


1966 -67 


1, 04 , 378 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 , 08 ,276 
2 , 04 , 504 


2792 


THF GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / TYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part II 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- 


I 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- --- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


1962 - 63 
1963- 64 


1 , 35 ,219 
1,64 ,855 


1962-63 
Do . 


1, 00 ,615 
1, 28 , 164 


1,07,590 
· 11, 00 ,610 


803 V . T . 671101ni, : ) 3 - indird Garrange, Indl. 

Moly Chambers, Cannady Brigde, 

Bombay , 
804 Vadilal U . Mehta , 382 -84 Narsi, Natha 

St. , Bombay . 
805 Vallabhadas V131nji, 285 -87, Narsi Natha 

St. , Bombay. 
805 Vanthal Hiralal, 379 -81, Do . 
807 Vijay M . Merchant, Sir Vithaldas Cham 

bers , 16 , Apollo St ., Bombay . 
808 Vinodrai Manilal, S , V . Lane, B . C . 

Market , Bombay , 
809 Vithaldas Gokuldag , Krishna Chowk, 

M .J . C . Mkt., Bombay . 
810 Vrajalal Dullabhdas , C / o P . Vrajalal 

Dullabhdas & Co ., 43, Forbes St. , 
811 Y . B . Rege, Sitaldevi Temple Rd., 

Mahim , Bombay , 
812 Y , D . Ahuja , Forbes St., Bombay . 
813 Y . T . Mancklal, C /o M / 8 Maneklal & , 

Co ., Dinshaw Wacha Rd ., Bombay . 
814 Zak arai Aghadi, 91, M . A . Road , Bombay » 


Do. 
1963 -64 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 


1,67 , 718 
" 1, 76 ,535 


1962-63 


11, 12,798 


Bombay . 


1966 -67 


11, 26 , 978 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1962-63 


1 ,87 ,917 
1, 39, 089 


814 Zal Co.Marcklalombes St., 


1, 25 ,260 


BOMBAY CITY - III 


Indl. 


1962 -63 


ctricals 


1 ,35 ,340 
2 , 20 ,606 


Do . 


Do . 


1, 22 ,241 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962 - 63 
Do. ) 


1, 11 , 262 
2 ,49 ,049 
1 ,03,047 


2 ,62 , 903 


Do . 


1 , 06 ,072 


1965-66 


1, 17,492 


815 A . C . B nat, 211, .SS . S . Nagar , Koll- 

wala , Bombay . 
816 A . F . Kagalwalla , C /o Glollte Electricals 

011 Anjirwadi, Chapscy Bhimji Road , 

Mizgion , Bombay . 
817 . A . H . Gandhi, Swastik Chambers , 

Carnac Rd., Bombay . 
818 A . P . Mchta , 166 , Kika St., Bombay . 
819 A , V . Despande , 95, Marine Drivo , 

Bombay . 
820 Abdulla Fidalli, C /o M /8 Abdulla Fidalli 

& Co, 24, Sutar Chawl, Bombay . 
821 Alladin Gagji , Prop . of M /s A . G 

Batliwalla & Co, 97 -Moreland Road , 

Bombay . 
822 | Aparlal Kupayalal 3 , Agiary Lane, Rom 

boy . 
823 Amarnath Gbai , Clo Rohtas Saw Mills , 

Signal Hill Avenue Rd., Damkhana, 

Bombay - 10 , 
824 Amratlal Gordhandas , Radha Niwas , Pai 

Nagar , Borivilli, Bombay. 
825 Sout. Ashvita Kántilal, Clo M /s Jyoti 

Traders , Indie House, Port Streot, 

Bombay . 
826 Almesingh Jesscsingh , 345 , Kalbadevi Rd., 

Bonbey . 
827 8 . G , Menon , C / O M / s Al Works Santa 

cruz Air Port , Santacruz , Bombay . 
828 B . L . Patel, Şuresh Colony, V - Parle, 

Bombay . 
829 B . K , Novatia , C /o Valia Bhayan , 551, 

Adancala Road , Matunga , Bombay - 19. 
830 BM Dosai, Noble Chamber, Bombay - I . 
831 B . P . Kapadia , Pearl Mansion , Queens 

Road , Bombay. 


1956 - 57 
1962-63 


1 ,04 , 295 
1 , 10 , 200 


1962 -63 


1,25,000 
3 ,68 ,089 


1966 - 67 


2 ,03430 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 
Do . 


1,28 ,394 
2 ,53, 857 
1,17, 753 
4 ,07, 980 
1 , 34 , 196 


Do. 


1965 - 66 


SEC . 3 (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


1 


Indl. 


1962- 63 

Do. 


4 ,29 ,921 
2 ,81, 706 


Do. 


5 , 44 ,321 


Do . 


2 , 56 , 118 


Do. 


1, 37 ,039 


1, 24, 286 


832 B , R . Misra , Noble Chamberg , Bombay - I 
833 B . B . Dharia , Prop . Valcan Mechanical , 

Tardco , Bombay . 
834 B , S . Tolani, C /o M /s Eastern Machinery 

& Trading Co . imperial Chambers , 

Wilson Rd., Ballard Estate , Bombay . 
835 B . V . Raval, C /o Kirti Rubber & Kirti 

Chemical Works , Jogeshwari, Bombay 
836 Babu Jagdeosingh Samshersingh , C / O 

Sewrec Coal Depot, Sewree , Bombay . 
837 Babubhai Raichand , C /o M / 8 V . Babubhai 

& Co ., 58 Kazi Sayed St. , Bombay . 
838 Babubhai Narottamdas , 308, Tardeo Rd. , 

Bombay . 
839 Babulal T , Parekh C / o M /s Reliance Drug 

& Chemical, Krishna Bhuvan , Lohar 

St., Bombay . 
840 Balkrishna Ram Gopal Ruia, 72 , Dhanji 

Şt . , Bombay . 
841 Bhimraj Bochardas, 173 , Kika St., Bom 

bay 
842 Bhola Baburam , C / o M /s . Mankeshwar 

Mechanical Works, 242, Reay Road , 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 09 ,690 . 


1 , 12 , 968 


5,00, 000 


1, 18 ,372 
1,65, 869 


Bombay. 


1 , 17 ,792 


1,09, 346 


Do. 


8 , 15 ,370 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1,16,626 
1 ,95,012 
3 ,64,937 
1, 25 , 476 


1964-65 
1965- 66 


1, 97 ,716 
1,50 , 469 


1962 -63 


1,22,181 


843 Bilal Haji Patrawala , C / o M /s . Moosa 

Haji Patrawala , Hains Road , Bombay. 
844 Bipin G . Parekh , C /o M /s Reliance Drug 

& Chemical, Krishna Bhuyan , Lohar St . 

Bombay . 
845 C . B . Mohta , 251 , Argyle Road , Carnac 

Bunder, Bombay . 
-846 C . C . Shroff , Clo Excel Industries , 

Jogeshwari, Bombay . 
847 C . H . Thakkar , C /o M / s Bombay Oil 

Mills, New Prabhadevi Road , Bombay . 
848 C . K . Parikh , Clo Parikh Brothers, New 

Citizen Bank Bldg ., Palton Road , Bom 

bay . 
849 C . M . Shah , C /o Paradise Products, 

Forbes St. , Bombay . 
:850 C . N . Kothari, Clo M /s Calico Indus 

tries Eng , Co. Champagally , Bombay . 
851 C . R . Hakai, Prop . Indian Steel Supply 

Co. Cornac Road , Bombay . 
852 C . U . Padia, Clo M /s Garment Clean 

ing Works, Dr. A . B . Road , Worli, 

Bombay. 
853 C . U . Shah , Hague Bldg., Sprott Road , 

Ballard Estate , Bombay . . . . 
834 Smt. Champaben H . Shah , Kala Niketan , 

30 , D , J, Road , Vile Perle, Bombay . 
54 Chandulal D , Parikh , C /o Kirti Rubber & 

Kirti Chemical Works , Jogeshwari, 

Bombay . 
856 Chaturbhuj Narsey , Clo M /s. Goldon 

Tobacco Co., Pvt. Ltd ., Vile Parle, Bom 
bay . . . . . . . HUF 


Do . 


1,32, 543 
4,65,088 


Do. 


Do. 


1963-64 
1964 -65 


2 ,44 , 124 
3 ,93 , 907 
2 , 22 , 141 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1, 07 , 744 
1,03, 230 
15,05 ,000 


1962 - 63 


Do. 


1,82 ,478 


1961-62 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


2 , 00 ,620 
1,66 ,089 
1, 11 , 820 


2794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part II 


, 


Indi. 


7 ,04,357 


1962 -63 

Do . 
Do. 


857 Chimanlal Himatlal Shah , Prop . National 

Brass Works , 72 - B , Sarvodaya Nagar, 

Panjrapole Lane, Bombay, 
858 Chimanlal Lalji, 128 / 130 , Kazi Syed Street , 

Bombay. . 
899 ChunilalKishindas , C /OM /s. H . Machin - " 

dra & Co., 37 /41 , P . Road , Bombay. 
860 D . C . Shah , 75, Worli Sea Face , Bombay. . HUF 
861 D . J. D . Cama, Mathuradas Mills Com 

pound , Delisle Road , Bombay . , , 
862 D . K . Patel, Co D . K . Patel & Co ., Raja 

Wadi, Ghatkopar, Bombay . . 


1, 55 ,771 


^ ^ 


^ 


: 


: 


33 


Do. 


1 , 16 ,845 
1,08 , 884 


Indi. 


Do. 


1 , 44 , 371 


Do. 


1965-66 


1 , 841506 
1 , 15,825 


1966 -67 

Do. 
1962 - 63 


1,44 , 736 
2 ,07, 965 


1 , 10 , 000 


Do, 


Do. 


1,89 , 000 
3 , 47 ,466 


Do . 


1,20 ,895 


DO . 


2 ,47, 158 


Do . 


1, 94 , 981 


Do . 

Do. 
1966 -67 
1965-66 


1,13 ,310 
1,22,295 
1,23,250 
2 , 84, 124 


863 D . M . Miranda , C /o M / s. S . S . Miranda 

Co . P . Ltd .,Mazgaon , Bombay - 10 . 
864 D . N . Shah , C / o M /s . Calico Industries 

Engg . Co . Champagally , Bombay . 
865 D . N . Tanna , C / o Chunilal Karsondas & 

Co . , Empire Bldg ., D . N . Road , Bombay 
866 D . R . Sarad , Prop . India Electric Corp . 

Botawalla Bldg ., 4th Floor , 11, Elphing 

ton Circle , Bombay. . 
867 D . T . Kothi, Bhandup , Bombay. . . 
868 D . V . Sanghavi, Clo Acme Pan , Mig ., 

Andheri, Bombay . 
869 DesaiBros., Prop . J. P . Desai, 284 , Samuel 

Şt., Bombay. 
Dharambir Hanaraj (Bharta ) Props , of 
Dharmbir Manoharlal, Darukhana , 

Bombay . . . . . . 
871 Dharamdas Tribamdas , 218 , Samuel St., 

Bombay . 
872 DurlabhjiKeshavji, C /OM /s. B . Durlabhji . 

& Co. , Bazar Ward , Kurla , Bombay . 
873 Mrs . E , G , P . Shah , Clo M /8 , Bentex Sales 

Corpn . , 94 - C , Tardeo Rd . , Bombay - 7 . 
874 E . N . Dastoor , C /OM /s . Pioneer Construc 

tion , Co . 299 , Fiere Rd., Bombay. 
87 % E . Sohelcsinger , C / o Indo Pharmaceutical 

Works , ( P ) Ltd ., Kohinoor Rd., Dadar , 

Bombay . . 
876 F . H . Mohobat, C /o M /s, New Rly . Res 

taurant & Stores ,Andheri, Bombay . . 
877 G . O . Kazi, C10A . Kazi & Co., Suparibaug 

Road , Bombay . 
878 G . P . Patel, Clo M . Bansiwalla Mills Com 

pound,Haines Road ,Mahalaxmi,Bombay. 
879 G . R . Sable , C /o M /s . Şable Waghire & Co . 

Station Road , Kurla , Bombay . 
880 Smt. GangabaiLaxmidas, Clo M /s . Laxmidas 

Premchand , 79 , 18t Pathan St., 

Bombay. 
881 Gautam S . Nanavati, Juhu , S . Cruz , Bom 

bay . 
882 Chanshamdas Hasanand, Prop. Nandlal & 

Co., 98 ,Nil Kant,Marine Drive, Bom 

bay . . 
883 Gordhandas Aildas, Prop. M /s. Aildas 

Gordhandas , 109 , S . K . M . St., Bombay . > 
884 Goswami Gokulnathji Maharaj, Katra 

Goswami Gopinathji Maharaj, III 
Bhoiwada , Bombay. . 

• HUR. 
885 H . C . Shah , 446 Anandasharam , 14th Road , 
Khar , Bombay . 

. . . . Indl. 


1,24, 157 
1, 10 ,477 


1963 -64 

1965- 66 
1962- 63 
1964 - 65 


1, 92 ,409 
1, 19,452 


1962 -63 


5 , 64,375 


1,90, 000 


1965-66 
1962 -63 


1 , 11, 688 


1, 58 ,655 


Do. 
Do . 


2 , 27, 403 


Do. . 


2 , 70 , 929 


1964 -65 


1, 78 , 168 


Sec . 8 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2795 


1965-66 


2 ,76 , 545 


1,05,457 


1962-63 

Do. 


3 ,75, 883 


Do . 


1 ,23, 913 


886 H . K . Parikh , C /o Parikh Brother, New 

Citizen Bank Bldg., Palton Road , 
Bombay . 

Iddi. 
887 H . S . Kardaswamy Clo M /s. Santhosa 

Madras & Co., Swastik Chambers , 

Carnac Road , Bombay. 
888 H . S , Madan , C /OM /s . Sorabajl & Co ., 166 , 

Bora Bazar St. , Bombay . 
889 Haji Mohd . Rafique, 18 , Nefces Chambers, 

Carnac Rd,, Bombay . . 
890 Hamzabhas Abdul Hussain . Clo M / s . 

Abbha & Co., 22 - 28 Shamshet St., 

Bombay . 
891 Hansraj Hariram , Yusuf Bidg ., Flora 

Fountain , Bombay . . 
892 Hargovind Shamji, Champagalli, Bombay. 
893 Harilal Jetha Shankar, C /o M /s . Cha 

ganlal Khimji, 300 ,Duncan Road , Bom 
bay . 

HUF. 
894 Harilal S . Bhutta , Clo M /s. H . Himatlal & 
Co., B . M . Rd ., Bombay . . 

Indl." 


1 , 50, 000 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 


1, 08 , 926 
1 ,31,320 


3 ,09, 062 


1962 - 63 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,40 , 303 
2 ,08 ,693 


895 Hariron Mahadeo , C /OM / 8 . H . Machin 

dranath & Co., 37 /41, P . Road , Bombay . 
896 Hariram Sobhraj, Shivaji Park , Dadar, 

Bombay - 28 . 
897 M / s .Horohad Bros ,MaraibiBldg., Guja 

ratiMondlaRoad , Vile Paric , Bombay . 
898 Hasren Jungemal, C / o M / s, Jungamal & 

Bros., P , M , Road , Bombay. . . 


1962 -63 

Do. 


( 1, 16 , 546 
5 , 83, 909 
1,03, 148 


Do. 


1954 - 55 
1962 -63 


2 , 17 ,961 
( 1 , 85 ,737 


1, 38 ,088 


899 Hurdram Metharam , C /OM /s. Metharam 

Kishandas, 329 , N . G . Road , Bombay. , 
900 Smt, Indumati K .Münsif , 16 , Altamout 

Road , Bombay . . 
901 Irshad Ahmedkhan , C /OM /s . V . D . 

Imtiaz & Co . , 222 ,Dharavi,Bombay . . 
902 Ismail Mohmed Madari, 159, Kika St., 

Bombay . 
903 Irundan Maganlal, C /OM /s. HiralalMagan 

lal, Janjikar St., Bombay. . . . 


1962-63 
1964-65 
1962 -63 


1 , 11,462 
1,03 ,258 
4 ,92,281 


Do . 


1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 


2 ,55, 169 
2 ,29 ,264 
( 1 ,84, 170 


1 , 82 ,434 


904 J. A , Shah , Nanabhai Manalon , Mody St., 

Bcmbay . 
905 Dr. J. D . Voral,New Nagar , Nehru Road , 

Vile Parle , Bombay . 
906 J. F. Salwym ,Sea View , 1st St ., Pasta Line, 

Colaba, Bi mbay - I . , 
907 J. K . Ladwall, Clo M /s . Tandurand Shah 

abad Stores , Round Temple , Bcmbay , 
908 J . M . Gandhi, 232 , $ cmuel St ., Bombay , 
909 J . M . Patel, ParsiBazar St. , Bombay . 


1962 -63 

Do . ) 
Do. 


{ 1, 65, 231 

1, 12 , 260 


1953 - 54 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 


( 1, 21, 786 

1 ,03, 116 
11, 54, 760 

1 , 31, 102 
1 , 82 , 797 


910 J. P . Agarwal, C /OJ. G . Glass Agency , C /o 

Varma & Co.,Nanabhai Mansion , Mody 

St., Bombay . . 
911 J. R . Madhani,824/ 26 , Ramgalli Corner, 

Kandivli, Brim bay, . . 
912 J. R . Mehua , C /o M /s. J. R . Mehta & Co ., 

Khctwadi, Bombay . . 
913 J. U . Ganga , 22nd Fofalwadi, Bombay . 

( Partner ofR , G . & Co .) . . . 


1962- 63 
1961-62 
1965- 66 
1962 -63 


1,46, 537 
3 , 18 , 345 
1,05 ,653 


1 ,09, 243 


2796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAIŞTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


4 


5 


1962- 63 


1 , 32 , 782 


Do. 


1975 ,000 
1. 51 ,979 


1966 -67 


Do, 


1,60,220 


1962 -63 


1,54,455 


1963- 64 


1,36, 770 


1962- 63 


2 ,91,272 


DO . 


1, 44 , 763 
1,09,882 


Do. 


honular Bldg. Indl. 


Do. 


1 , 12 , 374 


1954 - 55 


1, 79 , 810 


1,02,654 


014 Jagjiwandas Jainnadas, CloM /s . Jamna 

dag Madhavi & Co ., 84 , KaziSayed St., 
Bombay. 

Indl. 
915 Jaichand Kapoor, Clo Mohan Dyeing & 

Printing , Sonawala Estate , Goregaon , 

Bombay . 
916 James Miranda, Clo M /s. S. s. Miranda 

P . Ltd ., Mazgaon , Bombay - 10 . . 
917 Jammedas Kakumal, Prop. of M / s. H . 

Dayaram & Co ., 625, Girgaum Rd ., 

Bombay . 
018 Jamnadas Madhavjl , C /o M / . Jamnadas 

Madhav }i & Co., 84 , Kazi Sayed St., 

Bombay. 
919 Jethalal Karoondas , Thakar, C /o Dayalji 

Karamsey Bahubhbai, Chawal, Room 
No . 1 . Opp . Power House, Kandiyli , 
Bombay . . 

. . . 
920 M /s. Jayant Metal Mfg , Co., Prof. Late 

C . D . Parekh , 152 , Lohar St., Bombay. 
921 Jayantilal Goculdas, 232 , Masjid Bunder 

Road , Bombay . 
922 Jayprakash Agarwal, C /o M /s. Prakash 

Bros , Mody St., Bombay . 
923 M /s. Jessasingh Chaturbhuj, 144 , Fenas 
wadi, Bombay . 

HUF, 
924 Jiwatram Kundanmal, Dhanular Bldg . 

KalbadeviRd. , Bombay . . 
925 TouramalChoithram , 180 - 82, Samuel St., 

Bombay . . 
926 K . D , Shroff, Clo M /s. Excel Industries, 

Jogeshwari, Bombay . . 
927 K . J . Chawla , Prop . M /s. Repute Engg . 

Co ., White Bridge,Kurla , AndheriRoad , 

Kurla , Bombay . 
928 K , L , Padia , C /o M /s , Garment Cleaning 

Works, Dr. A . B Road , Worli , Bombay . 
929 K . M . Sharma, Noble Chambers , 

Bombay - 1, , , , , , 
930 K . P , H Helda , 106 , Kika St., Bombay 
.931 K . R . Rula & Others , Executor of Estate 

of late Brijmohan Laxminarayan , 36 , 

Stock Exchange, Apollo St., Bombay 
932 Smt. Kalawati Ramchand , C / o M /s . 

Lakhmichand Manobarlal, 35 . Shankar 

Mahal, Sophia Colony Rd., Bombay 
033 Kalyanji Jamnadas . C /o M / s . Jamnadas 

Madhavli & Co., 84 , Kazi Sayed St., 

Bombay 
934 Kanayalal Deepchand, by his legal heir, 

3rd Agiary Lano, Bombay 
935 KanjiNarsey, Clo M /s . Monji Shamji & 

Co., Opp . Jublice Mlls , T . J. Road , 

Bombay 
936 Kantila) Bhimji, Prop . Teju Kaya Con 

struction Company, Tejú Kaya Estate, 

Matunga , Bombay 
937 Kantilal Kódarlal, 12 - 14 , Champagally 

Bombay 
938 KantilalM .Gandhi, 63 -65, Cavel St., 

Bombay 
939 Khlmji Mulji, Iron Jathi 

Bombay 


1962 -63 
1965 -66 


1 , 19 ,914 


1 , 50 ,477 


1962- 63 
1963 -64 


1 ,01 ,974 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 


4 ,26 ,310 
1, 23 .314 
1,29 , 799 


1962 -63 


1,60 , 187 


Do. 


1 , 22 , 232 


1,38,783 


Do. 
1965-66 


1 , 17, 212 


1962-63 


1, 12 , 254 


1, 06 , 840 


1 ,01, 003 


1 . 13 .371 


1 ,55,85 


SEC . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2797 


3 


4 


1962 -63 


1 ,06 ,816 


1962 -63 


1 ,71, 285 


1966 -67 


2,32,189 
1,00 ,336 


1962-63 


940 Khushaldas Vallabhdas , 60 , Vallabh 
Niwas, Sion (W ), Bombay. 

Indi. 
941 KishandarMcthanand , c /o M /s.Mikaram 

Kishandas , Mobendas Mansion , C 
Block , Room No. 12 /389 , Chira Bazar, 

Bombay . 
942 Smt. Kurnud Manoharlal, c /o M /s . Jyoti 

Traders, India House, Fort Street , 

Bombay 
943 Kundanlal Jotumal, c /o West End Hotel 

Pvt. Ltd ., New Marinc Line , Bombay 
944 L . Bhimsen , M /s . Popular Metal Works , 

Behind Fish Market, Sion , Bombay H . U . F . 
945 Smt. L . S . Gandhi, c /o Shanti Rayon 
Mills , Sewrec , Bombay 

Indi, 
946 L . Satpal, M /s . Popular Metal Works, 

Behind Fish Market, Sion , Bombay : H . U . F . 
947 L . Suraj Prakash , c /o M /s . Popular 

Metal Works, Bombay 
948 L . Chamanlal , c /o M /s. Popular Metal 
Works , Bombay 

Indi, 
949 L . U . Padia , C /o M /s . Garment Cleaning 

Works , Dr. A . L . Rd ., Dorli , Bombay , 


1965-66 
1962-63 
1965-66 


1, 01, 076 
1,68,031 
1,35, 131 


Do. 


1,38 , 545 
1,11, 701 


Do. 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1964-65 


1 ,21,658 
2 ,03 ,949 
1 , 21 , 167 


1962-63 


2 ,74 , 270 


1965 -66 


1, 12 , 176 


Do . 


1, 12 , 503 


950 Lalchand Bhikaram , Prop . Lalchand & Co , 

Darukhana, Bombay 
951 Laxmidas Jamnadas , c / o M / s . Evergreen 

Wire Cloth Factory , Chrui Garden , 

Goregaon , Bombay , , 
952 Laxmidas Sunderji , c /o M /8 . Evergreen 

Wiro Cloth Factory , Chrui Garden , 

Goregaon , Bombay . . . 
953 LakhmikantJamnadas, c / o M /s . Jampadas 

Madhavii & Co., 84 , Kazi Sayed St., 

Bombay . . . . . 
954 Mrs . M . C .Merchent, 16 , Dadigheth Agiory 

Lane, Bombay - 2 . 
755 M . H . H . Premjiby legal heirs of the Estate 

5 , Ghoga St., Fort , Bombay- I 
956 M , K , Sooranji, Calicut St., Bombay 
957 Late M . K .Katira , by his.legalheirs , 232 , 

Tejani House , Sion , Koliwada , 

Bombay - 22 . 
958 M . L . Gupta, Prop. Lovenzo Watch Co., 

163, Nagdevi Street, Bombay 


1962 -63 


1, 48, 227 


2 ,63 ,074 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 

Do. 


1, 23, 621 
3 . 36 , 576 


Do . 


3 ,47,288 


1954 - 55 
1962 -63 


1,88, 200 
2 ,56 ,300 


1,47, 753 


959 M . L . Hari, clo Maliq Electric Works, 

13 , Victoria Rd., Bombay 
960 M . B . Mody & Co ., 177 Nagdevi Street , 

Bombay 
961 M .S . Barodawalla , c/o Zenith Tin Works, 

Clark Rd ., Bombay . . . 


1962 -63 

Do. 


H . U . F . 


1,88, 350 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


4 .94.749 
2 , 47 , 106 
1,47,418 
1 , 25, 181 


962 M . V . Bhat , (Decd .) c /o M /s . Kasturi 

Nascsh Puri & Co . Ltd ., 30 , Popat 

Wadi, Kalbadevi Road , Bombay 
963 Madhao A . Pandit , Bambulli Nivas, L . J. 

Road , Bombay. 


1,01,912 


1962 -63 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,27. 756 
1 ,87. 577 


2798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART I 


964 Madhusudan Maganlal, c /o M /s . Hiralal 
Magaalal Janjikar St., Bombay 

, 


Indi. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


2 ,58 ,515 
12,36 ,440 

1, 26 ,401 


065 Maganlal Srimandas , c /o M /s . Hiralal 

Maganlal Janjikar St., Bombay 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


( 2 ,56 ,076 
12 , 13 , 265 
: 1, 24 , 085 


966 


M /s . Mahendra Jewellers , Prop . Shri 
Kanayalal N . Patel, Choksey Chawal 
Jhaveri Bazar, Bombay 


1962 -63 


12,20 ,155 


1962-63 


1,37, 506 


1965- 66 


[ 1, 13 ,904 
1,41,857 


1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 


1 ,02,428 


2 ,27,005 


972 


967 Mahendrakumar Şcth , 60 -62 , Dhanji St., 

Bojnbay . 
- 968 Manilal Jam nada , clo M /s. Evergreen 

Wire Cloth Factory , Chrul Garden , 

Goregaon , Bombay 
- 969 Manoharsingh Dhody , c/ o Singh Trans 

port Co. , 275 , Reay Road , Bombay - 10 
970 Micheal A . Magnus, II , Worli Road , 

Bombey , 
971 Mohanlal Tulsidas , . 101, Commerce 

House, Medow St., Bombay . 
Mohmad Hanif Ismail , Prop. of M /s . 

Central Welding & Mech . Works, 

89 /91, Duncan Road , Bombay 
973 Moosa Haji Patrawala , c / o M /8 . Mooga 

Haji Patrawala , Hains Road , Worli, 

Bombay 
- 974 Motisingh Glansingh , Prop . Castophene 

Mfg . Co., Worli, Bombay . 
975 Moti Hassanand, Vasandani, c/o A . M . 

Khubchandani, 179 , New Kallas 

Bhuvan , Sion , Bombay 
976 Mulchand Narottamdag, c /o M /s .Mulchand 

Narottamdas, Hains Rd ., Bombay 
977 N . B . Bhagat (Decd .) by his Executor , 

Shri I. N . Bhagat, 127 , M . G . Road , 
Bombay 


Do. 


1, 00 , 000 


Do. 


1,20 ,908 


Do . 


1,40 ,043 


1965-66 


6 ,31,250 


1964-55 


1,06 ,709 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


3 , 06 ,694 
2 ,24 ,740 


1965 -66 


1,30, 324 


Do. 


2 ,82,490 


1962 -63 


1 ,06 ,702 


1966 -67 


3 .92,830 


978 K . D . Mehra , clo M /: . Commercial Sol 

vent Corporation , 231 , D . N . Rd ., 

Bombay 
979 N . D . Tata, c /o M /s . Pioneer Construc 

tion Co ., 299 , Fiere Road , Bombay . 
980 K . G . Bhatt, Harihar Nivas, igth Road , 

Khar , Bombay 
981 . N . J . Hemilton , c /o A . Mecral & Co. . 

United India Building , Sir P . M . Road, 

Bombay - r. 
982 N . K . Dhote , Prop . Harbo Trading Co., 

Syndicate , JaiKurir, Taikalwadi, Bombay 
983 N . K . Parikh , c /o Parikh Brothers, New 

Citizen Bank Bldg ., Palton Road , 

Bombay . . . . . 
984 N . M . Gandhi, c o M /s . Standard Tool 

Co., Kalina, Santa -Cruz , Bombay 
985 N . N . Sood , clo M / 9. Bombay Finance 

Co., Homji St., Bombay 
986 N . R , Shah , co M /s. Calico Industries 

Engg . Co ., Champagally , Bombay . 


1962 - 63 


1,30,018 


1965 -66 


I , 52 , 736 


1, 03 ,723 


1963 - 64 
1965-66 
1964-65 


2 ,45 ,736 


1,22 ,939 


SEC, 3 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2799 


Indl. 


1962 -63 


1,35, 800 


987 N . S . Patel, Sonawalla Bldg ., Tardeo , 

Bombay 
988 N . T . Shanbhag , c /o Southern Indian 

Trading Corpn ., 201, Himalaya House , 

Palton Road, Bombay 
989 N . Vithaldas, Prop . M /s. N . Vithaldas & 

Co., Quay St. , Darukhana , Bombay 
999 Nanalal Keshavji, c/o M /s. B . Durlabhji 

& Co., Boxer Road , Kurla , Bombay , 


1, 19 ,752 


Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


3 ,91, 000 


1,13, 491 


Do . 


1 , 19 , 139 


1954 - 55 


1, 55 , 896 


991 Nandkishore ). Khanne, Bhandup, Bombay 
992 Noor Mohamed Abdulla (Decd .) by his 

legal heir Mohamed Abdulle , Victoria 

Road , Bombay 
993 Nrijmohan Kapoor, c /o Mohan Dyeing & 

Printing Sonawala Estate, Goregaon , 

Bombay 
P . G . Mehta , 166, Kika Street, Bombay 
P . K . Chaudhary, Indian Globo Chambers, 

Fort, Bombay - I . 
1996 P . K . S . Menon , Vijay Adenwalla Road , 

Bombay - 12 


1, 12 ,500 
10 ,45,749 


994 
995 


5 .91,487 


1962 -63 
1964-65 
1962 -63 
1956 - 57 
1957- 58 
1958 - 59 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 


1, 45, 000 
1, 53 , 666 
51,68 ,690 
1 ,46 , 862 
1,68,766 


997 P . K . S . Menon , Iron Market, Carnac 

Road, Bombay 


1953 - 54 
1994 -55 
1955 - 56 
1962 -63 


1 , 18,800 
1, 25 ,800 
1, 26 ,800 
2,29,190 


1962-63 


1, 52 , 181 


Do. 


1, 05,874 


998 P . K .Sanghrajka ,Prop . of M /s .Mahendra 

Trading Co., Hemjeet, 2nd Floor, 221/ 

223 , Samuel St., Bombay 
999 P . L . Kotryam , Prop . United India , 

Engg . Co. , 6 , Commerce House , 

Bombay - I . 
1000 P . M . Gandhi, c /o M /s. Gandhi & Sons, 

232 , Samuel St., Bombay 
1001 P . P . Mehta , 166 , Kika St., Bombay 
1002 P . R . Raje , Prop ., Alpha Watch Co ., 

Ranade Road , Bombay (Dadar ) 
1003 P . S . Engineer, Imperial Chamber, 

Wilgon Rd ., Bombay . . . 


1 , 33 ,781 
1,07,796 


Do . 
1964-65 
1962-63 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1, 00 ,683 


1, 37 ,041 
1, 26 ,486 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 , 28 ,394 
1 ,03 , 000 


1004 P , S . Menon , c /o M /s . Aire Works, 

Santacruz Air Port , Santacruz., Bombay 
1005 P . T . Rajpal, 86 , Marine Drive , Bombay . 
1006 Pragji Devji, Prop , of M /s . Gajanan Timber 

G . B , Road , Goregaon , Bombay 
1007 Prakash I . Bhatia , for, Commerce House , 

Medows St ., Bombay , 
1008 Premji P . Mirani, c / o M /s . Mirani Const .. 

Raja Wadi, Chatkopar, Bombay . 
1009 R . D . Baſia , 73 , G . T . Road , Bombay , 
IOIO R . D . Sidhwa, 32 , Appollo St. , Fort , 

Bombay - I 


1965 -66 
1962-63 


1,09 ,970 
1 ,65 ,459 


Do. 
1965 - 66 


1 ,46 ,707 
1,24 , 861 


Do . 


1, 59 ,869 


1011 R . K . Dhote , c / o M / s. Bombay Fine Arts , 

Offset Litho Works, 10 Şewree Rd ., 

Bombay , . 
1012 R . K . Sewalla , 22nd Fofalwadi (Partner of 

Ind . R . G . & Co. ) Bombay 
TOI3 R . N . Contractor, 125 - C , hill , Bombay . 


1962-63 


1 , 14 ,935 


Do, 
1966 -67 


1 , 10 , 255 
1 ,07, 527 


2800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


• 


Indi. 


1962- 63 
1954 - 55 
1962 -63 


1 , 57, 118 
3 , 14 ,758 
1 ,07,000 


1962-63 


1, 08 ,600 


Do . 


2 ,90 ,803 


1,63 ,066 
1,82 ,172 


1962 - 63 
1963 - 64 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 

Do. 


2 ,39 ,027 
1, 17,644 
1,00 ,000 


Do . 


10 , 00 , 000 


1964 -65 


2 ,00 ,623 


1965 -66 


1 ,07, 338 


1962-63 


1, 36 , 769 


1014 R . N . Rai, Kaiser- I -Hind Bldg ., Ballard 

Estate , Bombay 
1015 R . O . Valia , 276 , Argyle Road , Bombay , 
1016 R . S . Mangbuani, Khanna Nivas , Mahul 

Road , Near Police Station , Chemhur , 

Bombay . . . . . 
1017 Smt, R . S . Tolani, c /o M /s . Eastern Ma 

chinery & Trading Co ., Imperial Cham 
berg, Wilson Road , Ballard Estate, 
Bombay , : 

: 
1018 R . T . Ranglari, cio M /s Dhantak & Co., 

Ram Mar dir Road , Santa - Cruz., 

Bombay . . 
1019 Smt. Radibai Bhagwandas, Keval Kanji 

Kilachand Road , Kandivli, Bombay . 
1020 Raijnath D . Joghi, 104 , G .B . Road , Santa 

Cruz, Bombay . 
1021 Ram A . Nigandhi, 10, Cawasji Patel Rd. " 

Bombay . . . . . . 
1022 M /s. Ramgopal Nandklahore , Prop . R . A . 

Gocl, 418 , Kd. Road , Bombay . 
1023 Ramjibhai K , Patel, c / o M / s. India Metal * 

Traders, Dayamandir, Mumbadevi, 

Bombay. 
1024 Ramprakash Channamal, Prop , M /s . Kash 

mir Woollen Carpet Industry , Janam 

bhumiChambers , Fort St., Bombay , 
1025 Ratamsey Khimji, Mahatma Gandhi Rd ., 

Chatkopar, Bombay - 77 . 
1026 Ratilal Chhaganlal, 9 , Stock Exchange 

Blag ., Dalal St., Bombay 
102. Ranteshwar Makheijcc , c /o Import Ex 

port Corporation , Kattiwadi, Dharavi, 

Bombay - 17 , 
1028 Roghanlal, Prop . L - Adelphi Printers , 
Quay St., Darukhana , Bombay 

H .U .F . 
1029 

S . B . Aga, c /o Ericson Richards, Ballard 
Estate , Bombay 

Indl. 
1030 S . D . Sharma, Prop . of M / s. Sharma Tra 

ding Co., Lohar Chawl, Bombay 
1031 $ . C . Nathu, 214 , Cadell Rd ., Mahim , 

Bombay , 
1032 S . H . Nathani, Prop : of Excel Wear, 

Bengal Chemicals, Worli, Bombay 
1033 S . I. Parikh , c /o M /s . Leather Cloth Pro 

cessors & Printers , Mogal Lane, 

Mahim , Bombay . . . . , 
1034 S .K . Hari, c /o Maliq Electric Works, 13, 

Victoria Road , Bomabay . 
1035 S . K . Jhayori, 213 , B . B . St., Bombay . 
1036 S . K . Nigam , CO M /s . Metro Prg . & Litho 

Ram Mandir Rd ., Santacruz , Bombay 
1037 S . K . Parikh , c / o Parikh Brochers , New 

Cilizen Bank Bldg ., Palton Road , 

Bombay , 
1038 S . M . Bhart, 146 , S , Park , Bombay 
1039 S . N . Shah , co M / s. Calico Industries 

Engg . Co., Champagally, Bombay » 
1040 S . N . Patel, Prop . New Worli Oil Mills , 

Worli , Bombay - 18 
1041 S . R . Sable, c /o Ms. Sable Waghire & Co 

Station Rd ., Kurla , Bombay , 


Do. 


6 ,79 , 812 


Do. 


2 ,30 ,242 


Do. 


1,22 ,264 


1 , 17,525 


1 ,44,000 


1965 - 66 
1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 


1, 42 ,740 
2, 50 ,477 


Do , 


1, 08 ,690 


Do, 
Do, 


2 ,23,086 
1, 04 , 658 


Do, 


1 , 09 ,852 


1965 - 66 
1962-63 
1966 -67 


2 ,91, 150 
9, 94, 341 
1,44,094 


1962-63 

Do. 


4 ,48 , 116 
7 , 18 , 101 


SEO .8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2801 


1042 S . S . Barodawala , C /o Zenith Tin Works , 
Clerk , Road , Bombay 

Indi. 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962- 63 


1, 94 ,649 
2 , 46, 818 
2 , 24 , 393 
1,54,219 
3 ,42 ,758 


Do, 


1 , 23 ,039 


1965-66 


1, 00 ,831 


1964- 65 


1, 28 , 732 


1043 Smt, S . S , Bhat, 146 , S . Park , Bombay - 28 , 
1044 S . S . Bubber , COM / s H . S . Sobhasingh & 

Song , 16 , Old Custom House , Road , 

Bombay . 
1045 Saadalli Hassanally , C /O M s National 

Gold Industries , Kurla Industrial 

Estate, Agra Road , Kurla , Bombay . » 
1046 Sat Pal, Clo M s Popular Metal Works , 

Behind Tislı Market, Sion , Bombay . HUF 
1047 Shanji Marji Parekh , Clo M / s Aditya 

Textiles P . Ltd ., Kurla Andhert Rd ., 

Bombay - 70 . . . . . Indl. 
1048 Smt. Shantaben D , Desai, 68 - F Nopean 

Sea Road , Bonibay . 
1049 Sikandarlal, Co M /s Popular Metal 

Works , Behind Fish Market, Sion , 

Bombay , 
1050 Sobhraj Jamalmal, 0 M /s J. Khimatrai 
& Co. B . M . Road , Bombay 

HUF 
1051 Smt, Sunira Nandalal, Gandhi Mansion , 

Silk Bazar , Bombay . 


1962 - 63 


1 , 23 , 905 


Do . 


1 ,09, 706 


# 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1, 29 , 362 
1 , 55 ,474 
1,89,806 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


. 


. 


Indl. 


07 


1 ,41, 367 
1, 31,750 C .G . 


. 


1962 -63 

Do . 


2 , 16 , 773 
1 ,02 , 793 


1052 Smt. Surajbala K . Shalı , Prop . of M s 

Gujarat Colour, Corp ., 153 /G .B . Rd. , 

Vile Parle , Bombay , 
1053 Surjamal Agarwal, Mody St., Bombay . 
1054 Smt, T . B . Damania , Prop . M /s Poles 

Trading Co., 44 Old Custom House , 

Road , Bombay 
1055 T. D . Ranglani, c /o M /s Dhantuk & Co . 

Santacruz , Bombay , . . . 


1 , 54 ,847 


1963-64 
1962 - 63 
1963 -64 


33 


2 ,69,646 
3 ,04 ,029 


1957 - 58 
1964 -65 


1 ,54 ,312 
1 , 26 ,064 


1056 T .G . Coates, C /o Saldar, Aurora Bldg . 

St., Francies Avenue, Santacruz, Bom 

bay 
1057 I. P . Patel, C /o M . Bansiwalla Mills 
1058 Tribhovandas G . Patel , 24 /Podar St,, 

Santacruz , Bombay . . 
1059 Trilokchand Mangatram , C /o M / s Mangat 

ram Bros . 31 Frere Rd., Bombay , 


1962-63 


7 , 04 ,320 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 ,57,813 
2 ,46 ,732 
3 , 00 , 738 


1962-63 


1, 38 ,783 


1060 Tulsidas Jamnadas , C /O M / s Jamnadas 

Madhavji & Co. 84 , Kazi Sayed St., 

Bombay . 
1061 U , M . Joshi, Prop . Ramtirth Yogashram , 

Umesh Sadan , Vincent Road , Dadar , 

Bombay - 14 . . . . . 
1062 Udayakunar Kuntilal, C / o Kiran Corpn , , 

India House , Fort St., Bombay , 
1063 Smt, Usha Gopaldas Gandhi Mansion , 

Silk Bazar , Bombay . . . . 


Do. 


3 ,39,273 


1966 -67 


2 ,33 ,622 


Do. 


1,37,943 


1064 Usman Heji Patrawala , C /o M /& Mooga 

Haji Patrawala , Haina Rd. , Bombay . 


1,33, 303 CG 

1,17 .791 


1962-63 


2802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968/ JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART II – 


Indi. 


5 , 12 ,384 


1962 -63 

Do. 


2 , 94 , 374 


1065 V . A . Oza , Dyukhang , Mazagoan , Bombay 
1066 V . B . Culve Prop : Bharat Steel Corporation 

Quay Street Darukhana , Bombay 
1067 V . G . Rajadhax , G - 6 Saraswat Colony , 

Mahim , Bombay - 16 . 
1068 V .H . Thakka -, E - 3 Sarojini Road , Opp : 

Thakoray Colony, Santacruz , Bombay 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,41,722 
2 , 19 ,389 


1957 - 58 
1961-62 
1962 -63 


1 ,56 ,892 
1 ,09 ,228 
1, 24 ,720 


1962 -63 


2 , 56 ,820 


Do. 


1, 08 ,642 


Do, 


1, 68 , 796 


1,32 ,266 


Do. 

Do. 
1965 -66 
1912 -63 


5275 , 170 


1,37,000 
1 , 12 ,367 
1 , 29151 


Do. 


1069 V . J. Sarghvi, Old Nagardag Rd., An 

dberi , Bombay 
1070 V . K . Dhote , c /o Bombay Fine Arts , Offset 

Litho Works, 10 , Sewree Rd ., Bombay 
1071 V . Krishna Iyer , Prop ; V . Krishna Iyer 

& Co. ,Moti Baug, Chembur, Bombay , 
1072 M /s V . M , Bastawalla , Karta V . M Basta 

walla , “ Deepak " Grafl 6th Road , Santa 
cruz, Bombay 

HUF 
1073 V . M . Kala , Ranade Bungalow , Subhash 
Nagar , Kurla , Bombay 

Indl. 
1074 V . M . Patel, c /o M /s Manilal Patel & Co .. 

C . P . Street, Bombay . . . 
1075 V . P . Bhatt, 213 , Samuel St., Bombay , 
1076 V . P , Gandhi, 232 , Samuel St ., Bombay 
1077 Lal Ved Prakash , c / o M / s Prakash Bros., 

Mouy Street, Bombay . . 
1078 Bai Velbai Kanji, Trading A8 Kanji 

JadhavjiMajid Bridge, Bombay 
1079 Vijasingh Chatrubhuj, c /o Vallabhdas 
Tejpal & Co ., 267 S . St., Bombay 

, 
1080 Vijay Kantilal , Kalina , G . B . Road , V . 

Parle , Bombay 
1081 Virendra Kumar Jhamn . Prop . M /8 

Pitin , 159 , C . S . Track Road , Nehru 

Nagar, Santacruz., Bombay . . 
1082 Vishwanath Kapoor , 8 , Mirza st ., 

Bombay . 
1083 Yakub Haji Patrawala , c /o M s Monsa 

Haji Patrawala , Hains Road , Bombay , 
Bombay Central 
1084 A . B . Bill moria , c o Tata & Sons Bruce 

Street, Fort, Bombay . . . » 


1 , 14 ,231 


Do. 
Do . 


2 , 55 , 136 


1963 -64 
1965 -66 


1 , 31,492 
1 ,02, 036 


1963- 64 


1,03,020 


1962 -63 


2 , 53, 232 


Do. 


6 , 24 ,765 


Do. 


1 , 17 ,791 


1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1 , 13 , 161 
1 ,08,760 


1962 -63 


19 , 35 ,600 


» 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


5 , 50 , 620 
1 , 15 , 583 


1085 A . K . Khan , Prop . of Associated Steel 

& Tol Co - pr ., 8 - IV , Central Bank 

Buildiog , Bombay 
1086 Abheraj Hirachand , Baldota Bhavan 

0101 s Road , Bombay . . . 
1087 Adamali, Nagpur . . 
1088 Akberali H . Jetha c /o Hassambhoy Jetha , 

Opp . Byculla Good Depot., Bombay- 27 
1089 Amarchand Jalan , 139 Medows Street, 

Bombay , 
1090 B . H . Patel, co M /s Dos & Co ., Das 

Chamber, Dalal, St. Bombay . . 


» 


1962 -63 


9 , 31 ,373 


1962-63 


1 ,96 ,318 


1, 94 ,453 
2 ,32 , 446 


1954 - 55 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962- 3 


10 ,08 , 992 
26 , 32 , 790 


1091 Balchand Menghraj, Gwalior , : HUF 
1092 Balaram Toluram , Tumsar . 
1093 Bankekishan H . Aggarwa), Gupta Mills 

Estate , Rony Road , Bombay . In 11 . 


1965- 66 


1 ,77 ,021 


$ 20 .$ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2803 


- HUF 


4 , 42, 213 


L 


. 


Indl. 


1094 Banwarilal Lolya , Kamptee . 
1095 Brahmadatta Mittal, Lentin Chambers 

Dalal Street , Fort, Bombay 
1096 Bubna Basudcoprasad , 39 Second Bhol, 

wada, Bombay - 2 
1097 Bubna Purshottam Jethabhal, 19/21 Dalal 

Street , Bombay 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 


1 ,00 , 000 


rasad , 39 Second 


1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 
1948 - 49 
1949 - 50 
1962-63 


2 ,26 ,134 
3 , 70 , 161 
5 , 26 , 925 
4 ,72 , 113 
2 ,81,030 
1, 82 ,532 


1098 C . C . Desai (Decd ) by Legal Heirs Gool 

Mansion , Homji Street , Fort, Bombay . 
1099 C . M . Patel, 263 D . N . Road , Bombay 
IIOO C . R . Kamani, Kamani Chamber, 32 Ni 

co ]Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay , 


1962 -63 
1963 - 64 
1962- 63 


3 ,58, 501 
2 , 58 ,500 
7 , 25 , 276 


> 


1960 -61 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 


2 ,00 ,797 
1 ,21,720 
5 ,56, 184 


IOI Chandrakant Mor , Tumsar . 

· HUF 
1102 Chottaram Narumal, c / o Jharumandas 

Narumal, 332 N . N . Street, Katha 
Bazar, Bombay . . . . Indl. 


1961-62 
1962-63 


3 ,50 ,000 
2 ,88 ,018 


. 


» 


21,65, 265 


1103 Chiranjilal S . Goenda 160 Walkeshwar 

Road , Bombay 
1104 Late Shri Chunilal Narbhcram , 49- 55 , 

Appolo Street, Bombay . . . 
TIOS D Sa George, 298 Bazargate St., Bombay » 
1106 D . Shamrao Bhanwatay , Nagpur 
TIO D . Shankartao Dhanwatay , Nagpur - HUF 
1108 Dharamsey Khatan , Indian Globo 

Chambers . Fort , Bombay . Indi. 
ID) ) Dirajlat Main Lal 15 Tambakanta 

Bombay . . . . . . HUF 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1962- 63 
1962 - 63 


1 , 25 , 481 
2 , 05 , 804 
3 , 41, 769 
3 ,37, 719 


1962 -63 


5 , 47 ,646 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1, 08 ,686 
1 , 54 , 253 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 , 06 ,812 
8 , 30 ,937 


100) D lip Kini , 32 Pall Hill, Bandra , 

B ) n yny , 
TO Duluzi Shiran , Tumjer 
ICT2 F . M Variayi, Central Bank Bldg, Fort, 

Bombay , , , , , 
III3 Patchchand Mor, Tumsar . 
1114 C . K . Dhote , Nagpur , 
1115 Godrej P . Joshi, 40 - A Ridge , Road , 

Malabar Hill, Bombay . 
1115 Gyalla Tulsiram Aggarwal , Gupta 

Mills Eitate, Reay Road , Bombay . 


1961-62 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 38,916 
5 , 26 , 171 
1, 49 ,776 


1962 -63 


9 , 24 ,018 


>> 


1951- 52 
1952 - 53 
1953- 54 


1 , 52 , 594 

52 432 
1, 27, 100 


1117 Gopaldas Poonjabhal (Decd ) by legal 

hoirs , 19 -21-Dalal St., Bombay , 


1946 -47 
1947 - 48 
1948 - 49 
1949 - 50 
1962-63 


6 , 70 , 238 
5 ,07 , 600 
7 ,95, 939 
8 . 92 , 586 
3 , 10 , 231 


1 , 15 ,000 


1118 Gopaldas Gulabdas , Tumsar 
1119 Gordatta Mittal, Lentin Chambers , 

Dalal St. , Fort , Bombay 
112 ) Govindids Gilabdas , Tumar , . » 
II2I Gilabas Rimbilan , Tumsar 
I122 H . A . Thakkir , II- I9 Tawa Lane, 2nd . 

Floor, Sittarwalla Building, Kolsa 
Mohalla , Bombay , . 

. » 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


3 , 23 , 326 


8 , 74, 475 


1962- 63 


3, 78, 125 


2804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[Part II 


1123 H . K . Jain , clo . Stretchilon Pvt . Ltd ., 

Bombay Cottob Mills Compound Kala 

Chowki Road , Bombay - 33 D . D . . Indl. 
1124 H . R . Kamani, Kamani Chambers , 32 

Nicol Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay . 


5 , 70 , 754 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1, 12 ,996 
1 ,05, 837 


1951- 52 


1 ,40, 738 


» 


1962 -63 


9 , 99 , 736 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 


1, 16 , 176 
3 ,23, 527 


1125 Harikishandas Aggarwal, Gupta Mills 

Esate, Reay Road , Bombay . . 
1126 Haggangli H . Jetha, Co , Hassanbhoy 

Jetha, Opp, Cyculla Good Depot, 

Bombay - 27 . . . . . 
1127 Hatimali, Nugpur clo M /s K . S . M . 

Hassonjee & Sons , Nagpur . 
1128 Ishwardas Mor , Tumsar . 
1129 J . K . Saraf , Jaikishan Niwas , Wake 

shwar Road , Opp . the Bus Station , 

Bombay , , , , , , 
1130 J . M . Dhanwatay, Nagpur . . 
1131 J . N .Marshall, 5 Wallacc St ., Bombay 
1132 Smt. J . R . Tahiliani, clo . Jayems Eng . Co. , 

Warden Houge , Sir P . M . Rd ., Bombay 
1133 Jalsinh Gopaldas, 19 -21 Dalal Street , 

Bombay . 


Indi. 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 88 ,657 
2 , 13 , 738 
1 ,62,418 
1,73, 385 


1962-63 
1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


2 , 11 , 135 
1 ,69, 804 
1 , 10 ,035 
1, 78, 384 


3; 13 ,000 


1134 Jaikishandas Balchand , Gwalior 
1135 Sivanlall Lallubhai (decd ) 805 E . S . C . U . 

Kalbadevi Rd . , Bombay 
1136 Jayantilal Mohanlal, 98 Marine Drive 

Bombay . 
1137 Smat. Jhunjhinwala Lata ,Mount Chique 

Pedder Road , Bomba7 - 26 


" 
» 


1956 - 57 
1962- 63 


6 ,71,793 


1960 -61 
1961 -62 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,41, 000 
1 , 12 , 000 
1, 26 , 000 
1 ,63, 000 
1 ,69,cco 
3 ,86 , 109 


1963 -64., 
1962 - 63 


1 , 57 , 000 
3, 39 ,640 


1962 -63 


3 ,07, 683 


1138 K . B . Aggarwal, Tumsar 
1139 K . C . Parikh , Bhaveshwar Sagar , Raia 

wadi, Ghatkopar, Bombay - 77 . 
1140 K . D . Dhanwatay , Nagpur . 
1141 Late Shri K . K . Dhote , through Legal 

representative Shri Dhote K , Shanta 
ram c / o Vasant Fine Art Litho 

Works, Gondia . . . . 
1142 K . H . Khilnaní clo Jayems Eng . Co ., 

Warden House , Sir P . M . Road , 

Bombay . 
1143 K .R . Gajwani, 54 -56 Empire Bldg . ” 

Bombay . . . . 
K . S . Khushalani clo Jayems Eng, Co. , 

Warden Housc , Sir P . M . Rd., Bombay » 
- 145 Smt, Kamlabai R . Ruja , State Bank 

Building, Bank Strect , Bombay 
1146 Smt. Kamlagauri Triyedi, Balaghat. ) 
1147 Kantilal Mohanlal c /o Parle Products 

Pvt. Ltd ., Thackersey House , Graham 
Road , Ballard Estate Bombay , 

, 


1962 - 63 


1,64, 994 


1957 -58 


1962 -63 


1 ,37,993 
1 , 33 , 901 


1962-63 


5 , 99 ,505 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 


2 ,41,774 
1,23,070 


1958 - 59 
1959 - 60 
1960 -61 
1961-62 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 04 -286 
1,07,578 
1 ,02,830 
1 , 13 , 900 
1, 17,578 
3 , 54 ,283 


1148 Kapurchand N , Mehta , Roxy Chambers 

New Queen s Road , Bombay 


dea. Hii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2808 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1963 - 64 
1962 - 63 


1, 15 ,000 
3 ,87 ,000 


1449 K130n R . Patel, Bhaveshwar Sagar , 

Rajawadi, Ghatkopar, Bombay - 77 Indl. 
1150 Kishikar B . P ., 203 , M . G . Road , Nasik » 
IISI Kcyalchand N . Mchta , Roxy Chambers , 

New Qucen s Road , Bombay , 
1152 Kunchind Jiwandas , Gwalior . , HUF 
1153 Kimji Khata i, 19 - 21, Dalal St., Bombay. Indi. 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 
1948 - 49 
1949 - 50 
1962 -63 


3 , 54 ,509 
9 , 00 , 212 
4 , 59 ,342 
5 , 19 , 380 
2 ,42 , 104 
2 ,04 , 139 
2 ,26, 126 


1154 Kh ımchand Ratanchand , 219, Kika 

Street , Bombay 
1155 L . J. Kriplani, 11, Vithaldas Road , 

Bombay . 
II5S L . L . D : yů in , Qicen s Mansion , Baston 

Road , Bombay . . . . 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1, 05, 344 
3 ,61,036 


» 


1 , 18 ,445 
1 ,03,932 


1 , 36 ,086 


1962 -63 
1961- 62 


1,38,586 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 22 , 376 
1,90 , 893 


1157 Snt. M . D . Forbes, 5 , Wallace Street , 

Bombay . 
1158 M .J. Bijlani, Central Bank Bldg., Fort, 

Bombay . . . 
1159 M . J. Shah , Prop . Mahendra Elect. 

Works, Podar Chambers , Parsi Bazar 

Street, Fort , Bombay . . . . ) 
1160 M . K . Dhote , Nagpur 
1161 M . N . Mars Hall, 5 , Wallacc Strect , 

Bombay , . 
1162 Madanmohan R . Ruia , State Bank 

Building, Bink Street , Bombay . 
1163 Miliſain Mittal, Laentin Chambers , 

Dalal Street, Fort , Bombay 
1164 Mangaldas H . Patel, 263 , D . N . Road , 

Bombay . . . . . 
1165 Mingharam Jiwan Das , Gwalior HUF 
1166 Miss M -ena Aggarwal, 6 - A , Bhagawat 

Niwas , Peddar Road , Bombay - 26 , Indl. 


1 , 20 , 994 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1,63,570 

1,00 ,000 
12 ,62,772 
9 ,83 , 286 


1954 - 55 
1962-63 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


1 ,00 ,000 
1 , 26 , 000 
1 ,63,000 
1 , 19 , 000 


1962- 63 


1,48,674 


1962 -63 


1, 14 ,477 


1167 Muraj Gopaldas, 19- 21, Dalal St., 

Bombay . . . 
1168 Smt. M ilchandani Pushpa P . clo 

Jayems Engg . Co ., Warden House , 

Sir P . M . Road , Bombay . 
1169 N . G . Valla , 95 -97, Bhaudaxi s 

Bombay . . . 
* 17 ) Nuriyenlis Dirgaprasad , Tumsar. 
117 Nrindas Mor, fumgar . 
1171 Nurottam Mohanlal , c /o Parle Products 

Pvt . Ltd ., Thackersey House , Graham 
Road, Ballard Estate, Bombay 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 26 ,816 
3 , 56 , 509 
7 , 78 , 931 


1958 - 59 
1959- 60 
1960 -61 
1961 -62 
1962- 63 


1 ,06 ,978 
1 , 10 ,416 
1 ,01,620 
1,05, 938 
1,57,890 


1171 Naynit R . Kamani, Kamani Chamber, 

Nicol Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay . 
1174 Navin R . Kamani, (address as above) 
117 Nirmal Kumar R . Ruia , Anand ** 

Bhayan , Morint Peasant Road , Bombay 


1962 -63 
1960 -61 


1 ,02, 798 
1,02, 134 


1962 -63 


1 , 27 ,560 


2806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART Il 


3 


H 


4 


5 


3 , 13315 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 


1, 94 , 137 


1176 Nyalchand Maluckchand, clo Shri 

P . M . Shah , Jivan Jyoti , Cawasji 

Patel Street, Fort , Bombay . Indl. 
1177 P . B . Patel, c /o M /s , Das & Co., Das 

Chambers , Dalal St. , Bombay , 
1178 P . D . Didhwa , 24 - B , Hamam St. 

Bombay . 
1179 P . K . Badiani, Sadhana Rayon House, 

Fort, Bombay . . . . . » 
1180 P . M . Shah , Satnam Sagar, 20, Peddar 

Road , Bombay - 26 . 
1181 P . R . Kamani, Executor / Trustee of the 

Estate of late Shri Kamani R . H . , 
Kamani Chambers , 32 Nicol Road , 
Ballard Estate , Bombay . . » 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


2,67,866 
1,01,152 


1962 -63 


1 ,28,037 


1951- 52 
1955 - 56 
Ідво - бI 
1962-63 


2 ,64, 068 
2 ,59 ,310 
1 ,41,029 
1, 55 . 703 


1182 P . R . Kamani, Kamani Chambers , 32 , 

Nicol Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay 


1959- 60 
1960 -61 
1962 - 63 


1,01, 569 
1 , 10 ,063 
1, 19 ,823 


1962-63 


4 ,60, 000 


1183 Late Shri P . Voyantizis, c /o Ambassador 

Hotel Pvt. Ltd ., Churchgate Extension , 

Bombay - I . 
1184 Pitamber Mohanlal, clo Parle Products 

Pyt. Ltd ., Thackersey House , Graham 

Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay . . 
1185 Pyarchand Keshrimal Porwal, Kamptee , HUF 
1186 R . A . Doshi, Behind Power House Digni 
was , Jamnagar . 

Indl. 
1187 R . K . Kamani, Kamani Chamber, 32 , 

Nicol Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay : 
1188 R . S . Gopikisen Aggarwal, Tumsar 
1189 R . T . Aldworth , Queen s Mansion , Baston 

Road , Bombay . . . . . ” 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1960 -61 
1962-63 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1962-63 


1, 05 , 081 
5 ,46 , 558 
1, 11, 312 
1 , 06 , 237 
7 , 99 , 472 


2 ,07,279 
1,81, 189 
8 ,39 , 847 


1962 -63 
1959 -60 


1, 29 , 281 
2 ,00, 816 


1190 Radhakishan Loiya, Kamptce . . HUF 
1191 Radhakrishna R . Ruia , State Bank Building, 
Bank St ., Bojnbay . 

. 
1192 RadhadeviMor, Tumsar , 
1193 Smt, Rajkumari R . Ruia , State Bank Buil 

ding , Bank Street , Bombay . . . » 
1194 Ramniwas R . Ruia , Do . 

HUF 
1195 Ramkisan Durgapragad , Tumsar , Irdl. 
1196 Ramakant Loiya , Kamptec , 

HUF 
1194 Ramniwas Ramnurain Ruia , State Bank 

Building . Bank Street, Bombay . . Indi.". 
1198 RamdayalRochiram ,Gwalior . , 
1199 Ramngrain Mor , Tumsar 
1200 Ratanchand Hirachand , Baldota Bhavan , 

Quecn s Road , Bombay . . , Indi. 


1962-63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 
IÇ62 -63 


1,49 ,018 
2 ,67,393 
3 ,41,59 
4 ,37, 052 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 


3 ,56,621 
1, 62 , 175 
7,07,866 


1954 -55 
1962 -63 


1 ,84 ,579 
5 , 55 , 936 


) 


1201 Smt. Roopkaladevi, w /o Shri Aggarwal 

R . S . G . K ., Tumsar . . . . 
1202 Smt, S . H . Dala ), 5 . Wallace St., Bombay . 
I203 S . J . Marshall, 5 , Wallace St., Bombay 
1204 S . K . Dhole , Nagpur 
1205 Seomal Murlidhar , 213 , Noor Building , 

Cawasji Hormasji Street, Bombay , 
1206 Scomal-Govindram (Address as above) . 


1962 -63 
1562 -63 
1962 - 63 
1962 - 63 


5 ,82, 863 
1 ,41,889 
1 , 84 , 228 
1 ,39, 376 


w 


1962 - 63 
1962- 63 


1,05,736 
1 , 05, 756 


SEC , 8 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968/ JYAISTUIA 18. 1890 


2807 


3 


1207 Smt. Shanta Aggarwal, 6 - A , Bhagawat 

Niwas , Pedder Road , Bombay - 26 - 


Indl . 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,00 , 000 
. 1, 54 , 000 

1 ,82 , 000 
1 , 35 , 000 


1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 , 00 , 000 
1,21, 108 


; HUF 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


1 , 56 ,667 
1 ,61,284 
4 ,51, 450 


ور 


. 


. 


. 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 , 12 , 291 
3 , 72 ,833 


· 


Indi. 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 


1 ,57, 000 
2 , 13 ,088 


1208 Shankerlal Mittal, Lontin Chamber,Dalal 

Street , Fort, Bombay . . . » 
1209 Sohanlal G . Sanghi, Indore . . 
1210 Tarachand Barjatia , Tardeo Bldg., Tardeo , 

Bombay , 
IZII TejumalRochiram , Gwalior , 
IZI2 Umashankar Durgapraşad , Tumsar 
1213 Smt. Usha J . Chugani, c /o Jayems Eng . 

Co., Warden House , Sir P . M . Road , 

Bombay , , , 
1214 V . D , Dhauwatay , Nagpur 

HUF 
1215 V , H , Patel, Bhaveshwar , Sagar Rajawadi, 

Ghatkopar , Bombay - 77 . 
1216 V , M .Dhanwantay, Nagpur 
1217 V . N . Khushalani, c / o Jayems Eng. Co. , 

Warden House, Sir P . M . Rd., Bombay , 
1218 V . Shivajituo Dhanwatay , Nagpur 
1219 Vadilal Soorchend , Shop No. 5 , Building 

No . 26 - A , Behind Mumbadevi Post 
Officc , Bombay , . 

. 
1220 Vallabhdas Khatay , Indian Globo Cham 

bars , Fort, Bombay 
1221 Vardichand Ratanchand , 219 , KikanStreet , 

Bombay . 
1222 Vrajlal K . Mchta , Roxy Chambers, New 

Qucen s Road , Bombay 
1223 W . W , Burgess , Queen s Mansion , Baston 

Road , Bombay . . . . ” 
1224 Miss Waheeda Rohman ,Poonam , Napan 

sca Road , Bombay . 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 ,69, 335 
3 ,08, 461 


1948 - 49 


1,29,251 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1964-65 
1965- 66 


4 ,87 ,111 
1,39,383 
4 , 56 ,695 
2 ,66 , 502 
2 ,33 , 100 


1960 -61 
1961 -62 
1962 -63 
1964 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 


1, 12 ,876 
1 ,64 , 143 
2 ,60 , 009 
3 , 90 ,632 
3 , 33 , 886 
2 , 24 , 121 
2 , 40 , 328 
3 , 33, 788 


1,70 ,945 


" 


1962 -63 


3 ,44, 744 


1225 Y . D . Dhanwatay , Nagpur , 
1226 Y . G , Patel, c /o M /s. Patel Eng , Co ., Jogesh 

wari Estate , Jogeshwari, Bombay . 
1227 Zaverchand N . Mehta , Roxy Chambers , 

New Queen s Road , Bombay . . 

Delhi 
1228 A , L . Sahni, c /o M /s Ishwar Das Sahni, 

Odcan Cinema, New Delhi 
1229 A . R . Chadha, Block, Con . Place, 

New Delhi . . . . . 


1960 -61 
1962 - 63 


1 , 10 , 169 
1, 10 , 799 


" 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,31, 179 

1,52, 425 
11, 56 ,483 

1 , 96 ,928 


1965 - 66 


1 ,05, 977 


1230 A . Hodjikou ,_clo M /s. Macropolo & Co . 

Ltd ., New Delhi 
1231 M /s . Afghan Fruit Co ., Prop .Girdhari 

Lal Indre Market, SubziMandi, Delhi , 
1232 B . D . Sharma, N . D . S . E . A ., New Delhi . 
1233 B , D , Ahulwalia , B Block , Con . Place , 

Now Delhi 
1234 B . L . Sibbel,41, N Block , New Delhi : 
1235 B . M . Patel, Ratendon Rd., New Delhi 


1962 -63 
1963-64 


1 ,01, 336 
1, 19 , 738 


1962 -63 


Do . 


1 , 25, 663 
1 , 09 ,530 
I , I1 , 483 


1965- 66 


2808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


. 


1237 B Delhi 


1954 - 55 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


16 ,69, 079 
3,82,443 
2 ,10 ,655 


Do . 


1 ,80 , 890 
1,01,593 


1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1966-67 


1,49,322 


1 ,01,234 


1 , 96 ,040 


1962-63 

Do. 


Do. 


1 ,03 , 310 
1 ,80 ,890 


1 , 34 ,953 


DIV , 117 - M . 


Do. 
1962 - 63 


1, 70 , 000 
2, 82 , 781 


Do. 


1 ,37 , 197 


1963-64 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1, 16 ,041 
4 , 89 ,800 


1236 Legalheir of ShriBaldev Singh , 17 - Tugh 
lak , Road , New Delhi 

Indl. 
Bansidhar & Sons, 29 -Curzon Road , New 

HUP 
1238 Bagum Aftab Zamin , 2 - Sardar Patel Marg , 
New Delhi . . . . . Indi. 

Indi. 
1239 L . Bharat Ram , 25, Sardar Patel Road , 

New Delhi 
1240 Bir BalP /O Krishna Soap , Frash Khana, 

Dolhi- 6 . 
1241 B. Raj Vadehra, 15-Barakhamba Road , 

New Delhi 
1242 Chaman Lal P / O Krishna Soap . Frash 

Khana, Delhi-6 . . . . 
1243 Smt. Chand Rani W /o Sh . Govind Ram , 

XV /3072 , Mutani Dhanda, Delhi . 
1244 Charat Ram & Sons, 26 , Sardar Patel 
Road , New Delhi. . . 

HUF 

Do . . 
1245 L . Charat Rem . 

Indl. 
1246 M / s . D . C , Anand & Sons, Hauz Khas , 
New Delhi . 

HUF 
1247 D . N . Mody , Prop. Mody Bros., 117 
Connaught Circus, New Delhi 

Indi. 
1248 D . P . Gupra, Prop . Damodar & Co., 109 

D , GAN ), Delhi . . . . 
1249 Delton Cable Co ., Prop . Sh , Ram Kumar 

Gupta , Delhi Gate , New Dolhi . 
1290 Dev Raj Vadehra , 15 -Bara Khamba Road , 

New Delhi 
125 E : D . Jhirad , 14 , Tecnmurti Lane, N . Deihi 
1252 G . L . Jauhar, 41- N -Block , Con. Place, 

New Delhi , 
1253 Gurdip Singh , 17 - Tughlak Road , New 

Delhi 
1254 H . R . Gandhi, Prop . M /s Havells Electricals 

Sales Corpn . Asaf All Road , Delhi , 
1255 Hans Raj Vadehra , 15 -Barakhamba Road , 

New Delhi . . . . . >> 
1256 HansRajGupta , C /o H . G . Gupta & Sons 
1257 Hanuman Pd . Gupta , 2199 , Dharampura 

St., Dollii 
1258 SardarniHardev Kaur, 2- Curzon Road , ” 

New Delhi 
1259 Harish Lamba, c /o Volga Restaurant, 

Con , Place , New Delhi 
1260 Harish Kumar Aggarwal, 42 - Janpath , 

New Delhi . . . . . » 
1261 Hira Bhawani, C /o Bhawani & Sons, F 

Block , Con , Place , New Delhi 
1262 M /s . Hukam Chand & Sons , 60 /22, Roh 

tak Road , New Delhi 
1262 I. K . Bhai, C / o Quality Restaurant, 22 

Narendra Place , New Delhi 
1264 J. D . Bhagia , Nizamuddin , New Delhi . 
1265 Jagdish Lamba , C /o Volga Restaurant, 

Con . Place, New Delhi . . 
1266 Jagmohan Kapur, Brij Mohan Kapur 

others legal representatives of the late 
Sh . $ . P . Kapur P /O M /s . Kapur Di 

Hatti, Connaught Place , New Delhi , 
1267 K . Narendra , Daily Pratap , 5 -Mathura 

Road , New Delhi . . . . » 


Do . 


1,08,839 
8 ,30 ,386 
11,78,948 


1 , 25 , 380 
1 ,09, 276 


1954 -55 
1962-63 
1965 -66 
1962 - 63 
1963-64 
1962 -63 

Do. 
1963 -64 


1, 12 ,269 


2 , 21 , 500 


2 , 18 ,877 


1 , 05 , 539 


1962 -63 


1, 56 ,847 
1 ,49 , 328 


Do. 


Do . 


1964- 65 


2 ,01, 345 
1, 19, 770 


1962-63 


2 , 18 ,277 


1962-63 


1 ,93 ,460 


Do. 


1 ,06 , 170 


SEC. 8( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / J.YAISTIIA 18 . 1890 


2809 


- - - - - 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1 ,03 ,847 
1 , 13 .305 
1, 06 ,665 


Do. 


1, 55 ,371 


1946 -47 
1948 - 49 


2 , 96 ,237 
3 ,44 , 280 


New Delhi e cons: ( F Block , Cou . HUY 


1962 -63 


1,37,900 


Do . 


1 ,11,680 


1 ,01,233 


1966 -67 

Do. 


1, 15 ,613 


Do. 


1 ,01, 235 
1, 26 ,052 


1962-63 


Do . 


1962-63 


1 , 13 , 314 
1 , 39 ,410 


1268 K . D . Dutta , 13 -Barakhamba Road , New 

Delhi , , , , , , Indi 
1269 K . S . Jauhar ,41 - N , Con . Place , New Delhi 
1270 Kailash Lamba , C / o Volga Restaurant, 

Con . Place , New Delhi 
1271 Smt, Kamla Devi C / o M / s. Prem Nath 

Motors P . Ltd ., Scindia House , New 

Delhi . . . . . . » 
1272 HH. Karni Singh Ji, 10 - Prithivi RajRoad , 
1273 M /s Krishna & Sons, F Block , Con . 

Place , New Delhi 
1274 Krishan Lal P /O Krishna Soap Frash 
Khana, Delhi - 6 

Indl. 
1275 M /g Krishna Water Supply Co ., G . B . 

Road , Delhi , . 
1276 Kundan Lal P /O Krishna Soap Frash 

Khana, Delhi- 6 
1277 Lakhjit Singh , 27 - Park Area, Karol Bagh , 

New Delhi 
1278 M . P. Jaipuria, Mahalaxmi Market, Ch. ” . 
Ch. Delhi : 

HUF 

: : 
1279 Do. ) , 

: : Indi. 
1280 Madan Lamba, C /o Volga Restaurant, 

Con , Place , New Delhi 
1281 Makhan Singh C /o M /s. Baisakha Singh 

& Co . Pvt. Ltd . 
1282 H . H . Manbendra Shah , 5 - Bhagwandas " 

Road , New Delhi 
1283 Mehta "Harnam Singh , 63-Golf Link , 

New Delhi 
1234 Mehta Davinder Singi, 63-Golf Link , 
N : w Delhi 

. . . . 
1285 Mithlesh Kumari, -do 
1286 Mitha Ram C /o Lila Ram & Sons, 14 - F , 

Con , Place , New Delhi 
1287 Nawab Mohd . Mansur Ali Khan , 

2 - Duplex Lane , New Delhi 
1288 Mohinder Kumar, Keatre C /O M /s, Alan 

kar Housing Const. P . Ltd , Con , Cir., 

New Delhi 
1289 Mool Chand Rastogi, Prop , M /s . United 

Glass Co . Jama Mastid , Delhi . . 
127 ) N .K . Kothari , 129-Sunder Nagar, New 

Delhi 
1291 N .N . Mohan Clo Dyei Meakin Brewery 

Ltd . , Kagliore Gate, Delhi 
1292 0 .n Prakash , 52 - Tolar Mal Road ; New 

D lhi . . . 


Do. 


3, 23,898 
1 , 18 ,526 


1 , 44 , 770 


1 , 17 , 935 


1,08 ,620 
1,25,231 


3 , 20 ,518 


5 , 94 , 155 


1,08,228 


1 ,74 , 223 


1 ,49 , 510 


Do. 


8 ,25 ,871 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 

Do. 


2 , 53 ,404 
1 ,95, 250 
1 , 18 ,077 
1 ,42,524 


15 , 14 ,713 


2 ,01, 345 


1273 P .L . Kap... r, 3 - Friends Colony, New 

Delhi 
1294 P . I. Lamba , c /o Quality Restaurant, Con . * 

Place , New Delhi 22- Narendra Pluce 
1295 P.N . Sikand, 7 -Barakhamba Road, New 

Delhi . . . . 
1275 Pron Nirain Aggarwil , 42, Janpıh , New HUF 

Delhi 
1297 Pron Virin , 1912, Sa271 , N . Dalhi , Indl. 


Do . 


1,90 ,025 


Do . 
1964 - 65 


2 , 85 ,742 
1 ,08 ,330 


2801 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART 11 


2 


I 
- - 


Indl. 


1952 - 13 


1,08,219 


1298 Pritam Singh , 5- Jantar Mantar Road , 

New Delhi 
1299 M /s Puran Kumar Parmod Kumar, plo 

Jeewanram Safar , Loha Mandi, Motia 

Khan , New Dlhi . . . . 
1309 P . Sharma Gupta , Mg. Dir. Auto light 

Ltd . , 6 - Alipur Road , Delhi . 
1301 R . B , Mehra po M /s Spraylac Paints 

Corpn . , D . Ganj, Delhi . . 


1 


- do 


1 , 13 ,980 


-do 


, 


1962- 63 
1963- 64 
1964 -65 


1 ,35, 728 
1 , 06 , 675 
1 , 20 , 987 
1 ,08 ,982 


1302 R . C . Nirula , Prop M / s . Nirula Copper 

Market, 129 Sunder Nagar , New Delhil 


! 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 06 ,757 
1 , 05 ,436 
1, 12 , 248 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 09 , 334 
1,09, 922 


1966 -67 


1 ,08,432 
1 ,54,838 


1957 - 58 


1, 53,019 


1962-63 
1966 -67 


1 , 04 , 559 


- do 


1.1914 ,000 


1303 R . N . Harison Plo M / s Pandit Bros . 

Chenda Chowk , Delhi . 
1304 R . N . Jauhar , 41- N , Con , Placs New Delhi 
1305 R . S , Chitnis po M /s . SD . . Chitnis , Sadar 

Bazar , Delhi . 
1306 M /a Ruglunandan Saran , Ashok Saran , 
42 , Janpath , New Delhi 

HUF 
1307 Ch . Raghvendra Singh , C /o M / s Delhi 

Land & Finance, P . Ltd ., Con . Place 
New Delhi 

Indl. 
1308 Rajeshwar Dayal , Regal Theatre, New 

Delhi , 
1309 M /s. Raj Bang Bahadur, 46 - Janpat , New 

Delhi 
1310 Ram Lal Gupta Po M /s . Import anci 

Export Sales Corp ., Chawri Bazar , 

Delhi 
1311 M /s. Ramlal Rajgarhia & Sons, P /o Prayag 

Dass Kanhiya Lal & Co , Darya Gan ), 

Delhi . . . . . . , HUF 
1312 Ram Chand , 14 - F , Con , Place , N . Delhi Indi. 
1313 Ram Praşad C /O M / s Hotel Ambassador 

S . S . Park , New Delhi , 
1314 Rattan Chand Kapoor C /O M /s . Gopal 

Chand Rattan Chand , Jhandewalan 

Ext ., New Delhi 
1315 Rani Krishna Chandra Devi Rana legal 

Rep . of the late H . H . P . M . Sir Kaisir 
S . S . J . B . Rana of Kathmandu (Nepal) . 


1962-63 


1 ,01,483 


- do 
-do 


1,03,453 
3 , 20 ,518 


- do 


1,53,574 


-do 


2 , 24, 103 


1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 
1948 -49 
1949 - 50 
1950 - 51 
1951-52 
1952 - 53 
1953- 54 
1954- 55 
1962-63 


5 ,00 ,421 
4 , 72 , 762 
2 ,25 , 571 
4 ,29, 406 
6 , 04 ,310 
6 , 48,764 
7 , 12 , 770 
7 , 84 ,618 
5 , 11, 843 
3971,839 


1962- 63 


1,842746 


1316 S . Nath Prop. S . Nath & Co . Esplanade 

Road , Delhi . . 
1317 S .D . Chunis plo M /s . S. D . Chitnis, Sadar 

Bazar , Delhi , . . . . 
1318 Mrs. S -K . Gill, 167 -Golf Link , N . Delhi 
1319 S . P . Chopra , 31- F , Con , Place , N . Delhi 
1220 S . P . Punj, Clo M /s . Puni & Sons P . Ltd . . 

M - 13 , Con . Place, New Delhi 
1321 S . R . Jauhar, 41- N , Con , Place , N . Delhi 
1322 S . S . Tuli, Prop. M /s . Tuli Property Dea 

lers , Municipal Market, New Delhi , 


1966 - 67 
1962 -63 

- do 


1,07,699 
1 , 28 ,079 
1 , 11,897 


» 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 ,38, 366 
1 ,06 ,842 


1962-63 


2 ,00 , 000 


SEC . 8 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2811 


4 


5 


1967 -68 
1962-63 


[ 2 ,00 ,000 
$ 3 ,50 ,729 


1963-64 


R1,01,144 
[ 1, 15, 231 


- do 


HUF 


1323 Sainditta Mal, 84/13 , Beadan Pura , New 
Delhi 

Indl. 
1324 M /s. Sardar Silk House Plo Shri N . S. 

Kohli 
1325 Sardari Lal Talwar, Clo M /s. The Paper 

Products Ltd ., Asaf Ali Road , New 

Delhi . 
1326 Mrs . Seela Bharat Ran , 25-Sardar Patel 

Road , New Delhi 
1327 Sham Sunder C /o M /s. Gokal Chand 

Kapoor & Sons , I / 15 E , Jhandewalan 

Bxtn ., New Delhi , 
1328 Mrs . Sumitar Charat Ram , 26 -Sardar 
Patel Road , New Delhi . 

Indl. 
1329 Nawab Syed Muriaz Ali Khan , 2 Sardar 

Patci Marg , New Delhi 
1330 T . N . Mathut, Prop . Central Board of 

India Industrial Comunerce , Asaf Ali 

Road , New Delhi . . 
1331 Tek Chand Narula lcgal heir of late Sh , 

Daulat Ram Narula , 12 / 20 , Arya Sa 

maj Road , New Delhi 
1332 Vishwa Bandhu Gupta , 5- Keeling Road , 

New Delhi 
1333 Vivek Bharat Ram , 25, Sardar Patel Road , 

New Delhi 


1962-63 

- do 
1962 -63 


F1,54 702 
13 ,03,780 
11,65,000 


- do 


71,00 ,000 


1963 -64 
1954- 55 
1963 -64 


[ 1,29 ,267 
( 1,67, 186 
( 1, 36 ,932 : 


1962-63 
9162-63 


| 1, 19, 474 

8 , 23, 732 


DELHI CENTRAL 
1334 Abdul Ghani Bhutt, Natipura, Srinagar, 
(Kashmir ) 

Indl 
1335 Bakshi Abdul Majid , Pamposh Hotel 

Residency Rd . , Srinagar , (Kaslimir ) , 
1336 Ajay Hari Dalmia 4 - Scindia House , New 

Delhi 
1337 Smt. Amarjit Kalır, 12 Roshanara Road , 

Delhi 
1338 B . K . Bodi, 38 P. iga Road , New Delhi. 
1339 Bahar S . S . J . B . Rana , C /o M /s , S . R . 

Kupur & Co., 58 - F , Con . Place, New Delhi , 


1966 - 67 


1 , 24 ,470 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


10 ,78 ,019 
1 ,51, 553 


1946 - 47 
1947- 48 
1949 - 50 
1950 - SI 
1951 - 52 
1952 -53 
1953 - 54 
1954 - 55 


1, 38, 118 
1,09,426 
1 , 86 ,624 

2 , 12 , 226 
4 ,26 ,251 

3 , 20,810 
4 ,03, 157 
3 , 46 ,244 - 


1962 -63 


4 , 95, 248 


1962 -63 


1, 25 ,729 


1962- 63 


1 , 59 , 927 


1340 Balchand Soni C /o M /8 , R , K . M - chine 

Tools , Ludhiana 
1341 Baldev Kishan Behal, C /o M /s. Pearl 

Woollen Mills , 425, Industrial Area 

A L idhiana 
1342 Bawa Singh Chauhan Clo M /s , Nagpur 

Rerolling Mills , Kampatce, Distt . 
Nagpur , . 

. . 
1343 Bekunth Nath Seth through legal Heir 

handra Shekhar Sahnti Niketan , 

Civil lines , Mecrut , 
1344 Bipau Lal Kuthiala , Pathankot 
1345 Bishamber Nath C /o M /s . Chittarmal 

Ram Dayal , Bela Ganj, Agra 
1346 Chamanlal, P / o M / 8 . Chman Lal & 

Bros., Parliament Street, New Delhi Indi. 
1347 Chand Rattan Rathi, Katra Rathi, Nai 

Sarak , Delhi , . . . , H . U . F . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


armar H .US 


1961-62 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


106 ,628 
3, 63, 073 
1,81,008 
24 ,96 ,621 


3 ,07,308 


2812 


TUIL GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


I 


u 


1965 -66 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1, 72 ,688 
3 ,61,696 
3 ,55 , 405 
5,01,132 


1962 -63 


1962 - 63 
1962- 63 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 

Do. 


10 ,24,849 
7, 15 ,641 
1,80 ,013 
1 ,23 ,268 


2 ,20,781 


Do. 


1, 15 , 000 
1, 00 ,784 


Do. 


Do. 


3, 77 ,167 


1961- 62 


1 , 14 ,350 


Do . 


1343 Curanjit Singh , 9- Friends Colony, 
New Delhi 

Indi. 
1349 Daljit Singh , Clo M /s. Shiv Parkash 

Janak Raj & Co. , Amritsar . . 
1350 Dan Singh Bist ( through legal heir ) Clo 

M /s. (D . S . Bist & Sons Bist, Estate, 

Nainital . . . . . » 
1351 Dharam Pal C /o M /a Shiv Parkash 
Janak Raj & Co ., Amritsar 

. » 
1352 F . C . Mehra , Delhi 
1353 Bakshi Ghulam Hasan , Shirin Mansion , 

Loulbert Lane, Srinagar 
1354 Gopal Raj Swaroop & Sons , Muzaffar 
Nagar. 

· H .U . F. 
1353 Bakshi Haji Gulam Nabi, Niushera ", 
Srinagar 

Indl. 
1396 Gurdial Singh Uppal, Lawrance Road , 

Amritsar 
1357 Harish Chandra Golch - , Taivur : HUF 
1358 Hiri Kishan Rathi, Katra Rathl, Nai 

Delhi 
1359 Harikishan Singh Uppal, Lawarance 
Road, Amritsar . 

Indi, 
1360 Harlsh Chand Clo M /s . Chittarmal Ram 
Dayal, Belaganj, Agra 

H . U . F . 
1361 Smt. Harnam Karu ,12 ,Roghanara Road , 

Delhi 
1362 Jagdish Lal Behal, 425 ,Industrial Area , .. . 
A Ludhiana 

, . , » 
1363 Jagdish Chandar Clo M /8. Walaiti Ram 

Jaishi Ram , Amritsar 
1364 Jai Gopal Slo Ms. Walalti Ram Jaishi “ 
Ram , Amritsar 

Indi. 
1365 Jai Hari Dalmia ,4 - Scindia House , New 

Delhi 
Janak Raj Co M /s. Shiv Parkash Jadak » 

Raj, Amritsar 
1367 Jaspal Singh , 12 Roshanara Road , Delhi . . 
1368 Jaswant Singh Uppal, Lawrance Road , 

Amritsar 
1369 Jawahar Lal Jain , Halsoy Road , Kanpur H . Ü . F 
· 1370 M /s . Jetha Nand Manak Chand, 
Amritsar 

Indl. 
1371 R . B . Joihamal Kuthiala , Simla . 
1372 Joginder Singh Chawla C / O M /8 . Punjab 

Distilling Industries , Khasa 
1373 Joginder Lal Clo M /s. WalaitiRam Jalshi 

Ram , Amritsar 
1374 Joginder Singh Uppal,Lawrance Road , 

Amritsar . . . . . ” 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1,77,803 
23,07,776 
1,07,944 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1966 -67 


1, 13,855 
1, 16 ,950 
1, 24 ,806 


1366 Janak " 


1962-63 


Do . 


10 ,22 ,097 
1 , 46 , 301 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 


1 , 10 , 153 
1, 99 , 277 


Do. 


2 , 12 , 794 


Do . 


1,84 , 781 


Do . 


1,05,301 
1 ,06,828 


Do . 


1961- 62 


1,01,975 


H . U . F , 


1 , 11 ,435 


Indi. 


1375 Joharilal C /o M /s. Madan Mohan Damma 

mal, Ferozabad 
1376 Jugendra Singh , 12 , Roshanara Road , 

Delhi 
1377 Juzgal Kishore ,Mehra C /o Niomla Textile 

Finishing Mill, Chheharta , Amritsar , 
1378 Late Kamal Nahata , Nahata Bhavan , 

Jodhpur . . . . . 
1379 Kamlesh Kumar, Katra Rathi, Nai Sarak , 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1963-64 


31,86 ,794 
1,03, 196 


H . U . F , 


indl. 


1946 -47 
1950 -51 


1 ,07,279 
1 , 11, 099 


1379 


* * Delhi 


- 


. 


1962-63 


1 ,03,759 


Seç .8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2813 


Indl. 


1,27,228 


Duclubhji,Johri Bazar, Jaipura Agarwal 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1962- 63 


3 , 53 , 672 


1380 Kanti Kumar Behal Clo M /s. Pearl 

Woollen Mills , 425 , Industrial Area A , 

Ludhiana . 
1381 Khel Shanker Durlabhji Plo Mis , R . y . 
1382 KiroriLal through Laxmichandra Agarwal 

Ferozabad 
1383 Kundanlal C /o Kapur Spinning Silk 

Mills , Amritsar 
1384 L . P . Jaiswal, 54, Ring Road , Lajpat 

Nagar , New Delhi 
1385 Smt. Laj Kaur, ,, Friends Colony, 

Delhi 
1386 Pt .Lila Ram , Masjid Moth ; Delhi : 


1 ,02,425 


» 


1957 - 58 


Tudi. 


1946 - 47 
1965 -66 
1954 - 55 
1962 -63 


1901,764 
1,97, 116 
1 , 10 ,483 
1 , 43 ,934 


3 , 12 , 276 


1962-63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 


2 ,80 , 286 
3 ,20 ,018 
2 ,65,248 


1, 12 , 381 


1387 M . R . Dhawan , 4 /8, Asaf Ali Road , New 

Delhi 
1388 Mahabir Kapur C/o Indian Impiements ” 

Mfg . Co. Aligarh 
1389 Manoharlal Soni through legal heir Clo 

R . K . Machine Tools , Ludhiana , 
1390 Smt. Manjit Kaur C /o M /s , Oriental 

Bldg . & Furnishing Co. (P ) Ltd ., Con , 

Place , New Delhi . . . 
1391 Smt. Maqsuda Begum Paraposh Hotel 

Residency Rd ., Srinagar 
1392 S . Mehar Singh C /o Dharam Singh Babek 

Singh , 12 , Roshanara Road, Delhi 
1393 Smt. Mehmuda Degum Clo , M /9 , J. K . 

Timber Traders Residency Road , 

Srinagar . . . . . 
1394 Mirdu Hari Dalmia , 4, Scindia House, 

New Delhi 
1395 Mohan Singh Bist, Clo M /s. D . S . Bist 

& Sons, P . O . Bist. Estate , Nainital 
1396 Late Sardar Mohan Singh Co. M / s . 

Oriental Building Furnishing Co. Ltd ., 
Con , Place , New Delhi , , , 

Ind . 


1965-66 
1962-63 
1962-63 


2 ,87 ,409 


10 ,78 , 019 


Do . 


1,26,667 


1, 36 ,280 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


5 ,23 , 109 


1959 - 60 
1960 -61 
1961-62 


1 , 28 , 166 
1 ,69, 006 
2 , 09 ,299 


1 ,07,896 


1397 Smt. Mohinder Singh Uppal, Lawrence 

Road , Amritsar 
1398 Bakshi Mohd , Shafi C /o M /s . J. K . Timber 

Traders , Residency Rd ., Srinagar . 
1199 Moti Lal. Jain , Halsey Road , Delhi , H . U . F . 
1400 M / s . Munshi Ram Roshan Lal, Bhatinda , 


1962-63 

Do . 
1962 -63 
1954 -55 
1956 - 57 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 


1 ,42 ,021 
2 , 00 , 278 
1 ,04 ,299 
1, 17 , 901 
1 , 14 , 006 
1 ,23,810 


1962 -63 


1,09 , 740 
2 ,65, 247 


Do . 


Do . 
Do, 


3 , 53, 196 
2 , 00 , 277 


1401 Nar Hari Dalmia , 4, Scindia House , New 
Delhi 

Indi. 
1402 Narender Kumar SoniCoR . K .Machine 

Tools , Ludhiana 
1403 Naresh Seth C /o M /s . Shive Parkash Janak 

Raj & Co ., Amritsar 
1404 Narain Dev Jain , Kalsey Road , Kanpur H . Ü . F . 
1405 Dr. Net Ram Aggarwal, 6 , Taylor Road , 

Amritsar 
1406 Padam Chand Clo M /s . Chittar Mal Ram 

Dayal, Bceganj, Agra 
1407 Smt. Pushpa Rani C /o R . K . Machine ” 

Tools , Ludhiana 
1408 Pyare Lai Clo Kapur Spinning Silk Mills 

Amritsar 


Do. 


1 ,09 , 270 


1,91,722 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1963-64 


1,34,403 
1 ,08 ,421 


2814 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


5 


Indl. 


26 , 76 ,789 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


7 , 24 , 998 


142 ) R . Doimia , 10 , Durya Ganj, Delhi 
1410 R . K . Soni Cló R K . Machine Tools , 

Ludhiana . 
1411 R . K . Seth clo M /s Shių Parkash 

Janak Raj & Co . Amritsar 
" I412 R . N . Agarwal, 165, Jor Bagh , New Delhi H . Ü . F . 


Do . 


1954 -55 
1955 - 56 
1956 - 57 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 
1961-62 
1962 -63 


12 ,22 ,882 
1 ,80 , 000 
2 ,00 ,000 
1 ,94,025 
5 ,49,518 
4 , 95 ,680 
1 , 80 ,017 
1, 15 , 590 


1 ,20,074 


1413 Smit . Radha D :vi Rathi, Katia Rathl, Nai 

Sarak , Delhi 
1414 Raghu Hari Dalmia, 4 , Scindia House , 
New Delhi . 

Indl . 
(1415 Rajendra K imir Gupta , Partner of s . 

Chand & Co ., Ramnagar , New Delhi 
1416 Sint. Raj Kapoor , 14 - F , Con . Place , New 

Delhi 
1417 Ruinderlal Kithiala , Yamunanagar 
1418 Sint, Raj Rani C /O 6 , Taylor Koad , Amritsar » 


1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,42 , 390 


1 ,47,351 


Do . 


Do. 
Dn . 


1 ,08 , 776 
2 ,47, 776 
1, 7,963 
1 , 11, 158 


1963-64 


1962 -63 


1, 53 , 668 


1419 Rain Prakash Kapur, Delhi 
1420 Rameswar Das Ram Das , Shri Krishan 

ka -rasta , Jaipur 


1954 -32 


1955 - 56 
1964 -65 


7, 02 ,489 
3 ,54 , 455 
3 ,70 , 000 


" 1421 Rimniwas Military Contractor 
· 1422 Ramesh Seth C / O M / s , Shiv 

Janak Raj & Co . , Amritsar 


Parkash 

. 


1962 -6311 


10 ,21,677 


1963 - 64 
1962-63 
1962 -63 

Do. 


2 ,66,894 
8 ,69,922 


1, 79 , 884 
* 1, 39 ,718 


Do. 


Do. 


24 ,94, 677 

3 , 25 , 743 


Do . 


6 ,73 ,877 


Do , 


1961-62 


II,49 , 924 
1,77, 874 


1423 Rashmi Kant Durlabhji Plo M /s . Y . 

Durlabhji, Johri Bazar , Jaipur 
1424 Ravindra Singh Sawhney , 12 , Roshnara 

Road , Delhi 
1425 Rishi Ram & Bros ., 6, Taylor Road , 
Amritsgr 

. H . U . F . 
1426 RishiRam Agarwal, 6 , Taylor Rd ., Amritsar Ind . 
1427 Roshan Lal, P /O M /s . Chaman Lal & 

Bror,, Parliament Street, New Delhi 
( 429 Rohan LalKithiala , Yamunanagar . 
1429 Sham Lal Ginta Partner S . Chard & Co . 

Ramnagar, New Delhi 
1430 Shiv Parkash Seth , Clo M /s. Shiv Parkash 

Janek Raj & Co., Amritsar 
1431 Sita Ram 

. . . . . H . V .F . 
1432 Suchha Sing . Anand C /O M /s. Firestone 

Tyre & Rubber Co., Kashmeri Gate , 
Delhi 

Indi. 
1433 Surendra Kumar C /o Indian Implements 

Mfg . C ). Aligarh 
1434 V . K . Kyhli, 6 - A , Con . Place , New Delhi 
1435 Vinod Kumar Soni C /o Indian Imple 

ments Mfg . Co ., Aligarh 
- 1436 Vinod Kumar Soni C /o R . K . Machine 

Tools , Lulhiana 
1437 Vishnu Hari Dalmia , 4,Scindia House, 

New Delhi 
1438 W . L . Kohli, 6 - A , Con . Place, New 

Delhi 
1439 Yadav Hari Dalnia , 4, Scindia House , 

New Delhi . . . . . 


1962- 63 


3 ,22 ,458 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


3 , 28 , 770 
12 , 44 , 385 


1,03,771 
2 ,65,247 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 72 ,210 


31,48,031 


1 ,34 , 941 


SEC. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 2815 

SS1 . - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Indl. 


1966 -67 


1 ,61,598 
2 , 30 ,053 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1962-63 


4 ,89, 870 
1 ,77, 292 
1,58,891 


1,03 , 444 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


1,43 , 043 
5 , 10 ,990 


1 , 09 ,445 


1964 -65 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,23, 590 


2 ,62 ,230 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 


GJJARAT - I 

117) Abdul Rizak Ahmed , Dhoraji 
[ 14 Ahmed Ibrahim Shahigara , Dhorji , 
1442 Ambalal Sarabhai C /o Calico Mills , 

Ahm : ddabad 
1113 Anand Sarabhai do, 
1111 Anantrai Chhaganlal, Damnagar 
1115 Smt. Anarkali Sarabhai, clo Calico 

Mills , Ahmedabad 
1446 Anilbhai Chinubhai, 1151 -A , Sankadi 

Sheri, Ah nedabad 
1447 Anilkent Gulabchand , Siraj, Mangrol 
1448 Aspibhai N . Wadia , M . G . Road , 

Porbandar 
1449 Anubhai Chinubhai , 1151-A , Sankadi 

Sheri, Ahmedabad 
1450 B . L . " Chhambada , Gheckanta , 

Ahmedabad 
1451 Sn . Bharti Sarabhai, Calico Mills, 

Ahm :dabad 
1152 C . A . Doshi, Dig , Nivas, Jamnagar 
1153 C . A . Parekh , Rajkot 
1154 Crindravadan Gopaldas Siraj, Mangrol 
1455 Chaturbhujdas Chimanlal, C / o Bharat 

Suryodaya Mills , Ahm : dabad , 
1455 Chaturdas Chhaganlal, Vadipura , 

Surendranagar 
457 Cihotabhai Jhavarbhai Patel, Mota Pore, 

Nidia 
1453 Cainubha : Marilal Sheth , Pankornaka, 

Ahm : 11hı 
1459 Chunilal Chaturbhai, " Cross Lane, 

Ahmedabad 
145 ) Divihi Kichra , Digvijay Plot, Jamnagar 
1451 D lpkuni Anubhai Shah , Nr. Lal 

Bunglow , Ellis Bridge , Ahmedabad 
1 152 Dvikala Miljibhai, Damgar 
1153 G11 : 1 n 11110 Sidhaker , Opp . Doghi 

wala s P5l: , Ahn dabad 
1454 Girlharlal Diyalbhai, Bundar Road , 

Porbandar , 
1455 Grihandas Kariazii, Tetour 
1465 Gulabchand Gopaldas Siraj, Mangrol 
1467 H . A . Parekh , Rajkot 
1458 H . H . Bhagwati , Ahmedabad . . 
1463 H . H . T . : Ma nıraja Jam Saheb of Nawab . 

nagar , Jamnagar 


1 , 36 , 994 
1 , 36 ,400 
1 , 16 ,757 
1 , 52 , 140 
1,07,670 


H . U . F . 


1962-63 
1965-66 
1962-63 
1966 -67 


1, 13 , 150 
4 , 37 ,678 


I , I1 ,717 


1 ,01,206 
1,29,019 


1952- 63 


1962- 63 


1 , 00 ,376 
1,64,724 


> 


1965 -66 


1 ,01,249 


1964- 65 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


1 ,08 ,367 
1, 15,790 
7 , 11 ,351 


, 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 76 , 565 
1 , 23 ,678 
1,58 ,225 
1, 87 , 250 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


3 ,75,605 
4 , 09 , 900 
3 ,92,452 


147 ) 


H . H . Miharya Rajasaheb Shri Pratap . 

ginhji of Winkarer 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,21,046 
1,07 , 890 
1, 07 ,210 


3 ,06 ,756 


1471 H . H . Maharao Shri Madanginhji Saheb , 

Bhuj 
1172 H . H . Vikranzinhji Maharaja Saheb of 

Gundal 
1173 H . V . Krechi, Jindagar 
1174 Hij: Satrar Ibrahim , Dhoraji 
1175 Eljvir 11 Cihaganlal, Vadipura , 

Siren Irulurar 
1175 [Iresha ikini : Natwarlal Vora , Mota 

Pore , Nalia . . . . . 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


6 , 17 ,477 
1 ,60 ,827 
1,05 , 786 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1, 16 ,450 
8 , 59,503 


" 


2816 


I ric vnige 


vr lui . JULYC 0 , 1719 / JILID 1110 10 . vyvv 


LIANI 


Indi, 


1477 I[imatlal D . Degai, Gondal Road , 

Rajkot 
1478 Smt. Hiralaxıni Prabhudas, Damnagar , 
1479 Hussain Rahim Voraval 
1480 Ishwarlal Narsibhai, Ahmedabad . . 
1481 J. A . Parekh , Rajkot . , 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1961-62 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1966 - 67 
1963 -64 


1 , 19 , 10I 
1, 51, 261 
1 ,04 ,723 
1 , 16 , 333 
1 , 16 ,333 
1 ,02 , 206 
1 ,99 , 274 
1,65, 260 
1 , 12 , 062 


1966 -67 


1,03,246 


1482 J. B . Kharawala , Ahmedabad 
1483 J. J. Pathak , Rajkot 
1484 J. M . Thakore , Sakar Bazar, Ahmeda 

bad 
1485 Jayendrabhai Narcghchandra , 

Ahmedabad 
1486 Jhaverbhai Bhulabhai Patel, Mota 

Pore , Nadiad 
1487 Jitendra Manilal, Rajkot 
1488 Jiviben Maganlal L .R . of Shri Maganlal 

Popotlal, Jamnagar 


1966 - 67 


1 ,22 ,865 


1962-63 
1966 -67 


4 ,44 ,833 
3 , 10 , 266 


4 , 43 , 192 
1 , 50 , 181 


1489 Mrs . K . J. Tarapurwala , Bhaynagar 
1490 K . N . Mchta , Porbander 
149 Smt. K . P . Shah , Jamnagar 
1492 Kantilal Bhuralal, Probandar 
1493 Kantilal Jagjivandas , Vil. Bavla 
1494 KantilalMohanlal, Dhrangadhra 
1495 Kantilal P . Shah , Station Road , 

Jamnagar . . . . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1964- 65 
1965 - 66 


2 , 45 ,036 
1 ,81,250 
1 , 19 ,177 
1 , 129444 
1 ,61, 121 
1 ,02 , 203 
1 ,04 ,221 
1 ,22,402 
1 , 24 ,420 


. 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1964-65 
1965 -66 


1 , 05 ,248 
1 , 16 ,707 
1,35 ,793 
1, 13, 363 
1, 28 ,014 
1,43 , 106 


1496 Kumanrai Chhaganlal, Dhrangadhra . 
1497 Kurji Jinabhai Kotecha, Gondal Road , 

Rajkot 
1498 L . B . Kharawala , Agtodia, Ahmedabad 
1499 L . K . Ganatra , Rajkot 
1500 Lalitkumar Gopaldas Siral, Mangrol 
1501 Smt. Lilavati H . Kotecha , Hospital , 

Road , Jamnagar 
1502 M . K , S , Shivrajsinhji, Hawa Mahal 

Gondal 
1503 Madanngohan Mangaldas, Ahmedabad . 
1504 Mahasukhlal Bhuralal, Porbandar 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1, 89 ,917 
1, 05 , 520 
1, 15 , 747 
2 ,51,012 


2 , 56 ,271 


1962-63 
1965 -66 
1963 - 64 
1964 - 65 
1964-65 
1966 -67 


1 , 19 , 131 
2 , 84 ,483 
2 , 27 ,925 
1 , 12 , 453 
1 ,61,522 


1964-65 


1, 25 ,653 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 


4 , 29 ,435 
1 , 40 , 793 


6 ,40 ,786 


1505 S.nt. Mona G . Sarabhai, Calico Mills , 

Ahmedabad 
1506 Manibhai Zaveribhai Patel, Mota Pore , 

Nadiad 
150W Smt. Mangla Fulchand, Rajkot 
1506 Manorbhai Babarbhai Patel , Mota Pore , 

Nadiad 
1509 Mangukhlat H . Kotecha, Hospital Road , 

Jamnagar 
1510 Smt. Mrudula Sarabhai, Calico Mills, 

Ahmedabad 
1511 N .P . Wadia V .G . Road , Porbandar . 
1512 Nagardas Dayabliai, Bundar Road , Por 

bandar 
1513 Nagin das Dolatram , Ahmedabad : : 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 


1, 24 , 209 


1964 - 65 
1964 -65 


2 , 47 , 378 
1, 10 ,514 


1964 -65 
1966 - 67 


1, 08 , 061 
1 , 25 ,422 


SEO. 8 (U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2817 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1, 172486 
1, 18 , 859 


1965- 66 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 40 , 547 
1 ,02, 877 
2 , 58 , 536 
1 , 24 ,472 


1962-63 


2 ,23,006 


Sur 


1514 Nagindas Mohanlal Dhrangadhra , Indi. 
1555 Nareshchandra Mansuklıram , Doshiwada s 

Pule , Ahmedabad . 
1516 P . M . Ghia , Rajkot , , , , , 
1517 P . S . Shah , Jamngar . 
1518 Popat Rz!nji 3 , Gudavadi, Rajkot H .U . F . 
IS19 Prabhulas Rinjibhai Mehti , Lokhand 

Bazar, Bhavnagar . . , Indl. 
1520 Preinjibhai Gopabhai, Gundayadi Road , 

Rajkot , 
1521 R . M .Ghia , Rajkot 
1522 Rajkumu L .Chabada , Gheekanta Road , " 

Ahıncdabad . . . . . » 
1523 Ramanlal Jethalal Patel, Mota Pore, 
Naliai 

H . U . F . 
1524 Ranji Purshottam , Kedareshwar Road , 
Porbandar 

Indl. 
Rasiklal Nareshchandra, " Kalupur, *** 

Ahmcdabad 
1526 Ratilal Mohkamchand , Kalupur Ahined 

abad 
1527 Shantilal Mohanlal, Dhrangadhra . . . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 16 , 705 
1, 10 ,336 


1962-63 


2 ,62,230 


6 , 59, 496 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1966 -67 


1 , 43 , 171 


1, 26 ,006 


1965- 66 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 ,03 ,379 
1 ,39,095 
1 ,43088 


1,04 , 862 


1962-63 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


1, 00 ,339 
1 ,02 ,696 
1,01,399 


- do 


1963-64 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1966 - 67 


1 , 93 , 981 
1 , 19 , 739 
1,08 ,211 
2 , 98 , 954 
1 ,06 , 160 
1, 12 ,387 
1,61,783 


1523 Shyam ali G11:an Sarabhai,Calico Mills , 

Ahmedabad . 
1529 Soinibhai Chaturbhai, Cross Lane , 

Ahmedabad . . . . . ) 
1530 Somalal Kagturchand , Dhangura 
1531 Suhrid Sarabhai , Calico Mills , Ahmed 
abad 

Indi. 
1532 Surendra Mangaldas , Ahmedabad . HUF 
1533 
1534 Dr, Sushila K , Sheth , Rajkot 
1535 Tulsidas Pragji , Bhuj . 
1536 Vanechand Bhuralal, Porbandar 
1537 Dr. Vikram A . Sarabhai, Calico Mills , 

Ahmedabad 
1538 Vinodrai Chhaganlal, Dhrangadhra : 
1539 Vrajlal Chhaganlal, Dhrangadhra . . 
1540 Vrajlal Gopallas Siraj, Mangrol 
1541 Amratlal Ravjibhai, Manekchowk, Ahmed 

abad , 
1542 Anilkumar P . Patel, Housing Society , 

Navsari , . . . . 
1543 Anilkumar Ambalal, Motibag, E . B ., 

Ahmedabad 
1544 Arunkumar Amratlal, Dhamanwala, Rus 

tompura , Surat 
1545 Smt. Arundhati Balkrishna , Shabibag , 

Ahmedabad 
1546 Arvindbhai Chinubhal, E .B . A bad : 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1964 - 65 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 , 12 , 708 
1 ,28, 311 
1, 28 ,035 
1943,823 
1 ,42, 308 
3, 81, 295 


1 ,55, 700 


1963-64 
1963- 64 
1965-66 


1 , 11,048 
1 , 10 , 460 


1966 -67 


1, 59 ,635 
1 ,98 , 124 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 


3 ,28 , 000 
5,37, 191 
2 , 78 ,641 
2 , 58 , 186 


1, 47 ,248 


1547 Ashokbhal Chimanbhai, Pankore Naka, 

Ahmedabad . 
1348 Ashokkunar Ramanlal, Kothari Pole, ” 

Gandhi Road , Ahmedabad . . » 


1965-66 
1962- 63 


2 , 72 ,080 


2818 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


71, 14 ,445 
11,07,674 


1966 -67 


1 , 31 , 760 


1966 -67 


1 , 44 ,948 


1519 Babulal Premchad Outside Panchkuva , 
Ahmedabad ] . 

. . . H . U . P . 
1550 Balkrishna Harivallabhday , Shahibag , 
Ahm : dabad 

Indl. 
1551 Balwantlal Cihotalal, Lal Darwaja , Gundi 

Sheri, Surat . 
1552 Bharatkumar Ishwarial undhi,Mahidhar 

pura , Surat . . 
1553 Bhogilal Amtatlal Dharmaowala ,Rustom 

pura , Surat . 
1554 Biogilal Hiralal, Aghwanikumar Road , 

Surat, 
1555 Biharilal Kanaiylal, Möri Bag , Ahmeda- " 

bad . . . . . . » 


1965 - 66 


1,29,885 


2 , 97 , 188 


1964-65 
1965- 66 


1 ,35 ,673 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1, 00 , 129 
11, 44 ,290 
I , 11 , 347 


1962-63 


10 ,05, 755 


1964 -65 


1 ,29 ,624 


1965 - 66 
1965- 66 


1 ,46 ,318 
1 ,11, 246 


1, 48 , 302 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 , 39 ,033 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 


1 ,21,725 
2 ,29, 503 


1966 - 67 


1966 -67 
1965 - 66 


3 ,08 , 730 
1,51,209 
1,04 ,687 


1556 Bipinbhai Valilal, Ellis Bridge, Ahmed 

abad 
1557 Chandrakant Weaving Factory , Prop . 

Dayalkaorben , Dhansukhlal, Lal Dar 

waja , Surat 
1558 Cunabhu Czimanbhai, Pankorc-Naka , 
Ahn dabai 

H . U . F . 
1559 Cunubhizi Czimanbhai . -do - . 

Indl. / 
1560 C1rayus R. Amin , Alembic Colony, 

Baroda 
1561 Chandulal Keshavlal Parikh , Sanatorium , 

Petlad . 
1562 Chelaram Sunderdas, Salabatpura, Bagam 

wadi, Surat . . . . . » 
1563 Chhotalal Maganlal , Lal-Darwaja , Gundi 

Sheri , Surat 
1564 Smt. Dhirajhen R . Amin, Alembic Colony, ” 

Baroda , 
1565 Dhulji Champaklal , Naroda Road , 

Ahmedabad . . . . . » 
1566 Dineshchandra Amratlal, Dhamanwala , 

Rustompuru , Surat 
1567 Dulcrai Rarilal Mohta , Manidharpura . 

Jadakhadi, Surat 
1568 F .V . Khanbhaty, Station Road , Canbay , 
1569 Gamu al [ zhwırlal Gandi, Mahidhar.. 

pura , Surat 
1570 Ganpatraj Premraj, New Cloth Mkt., ” 

Ahmedabad , 
1571 Gopaldas P . Shah , Khadia Char Rasta , 

Ahmedabad . . . . » 
1572 Gorihan 113 Jethabhai , Karachiva . 

Gordhandas, Dihyabhai Reshamwala , 

Rampura , Surat 
2574 Gullvantlal Mangaldag, Manekchawk , 

Ahin dabai 
1575 Haribhai R . D ai, Lakha Patel s Pole , 

Alin labai 
1576 Harzharai Gilishanker, Aglodia Chakla , 

Alim : dabad 
1577 Huynuklilal Gundabhai, Mahidharpura , 

Surat 
1578 Hiralal C . Thakkar , Tower Road , Surat 
157) IA , Modl, Azid Society , Ahmedabad , , 


1964 -65 


2 , 97 , 188 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962- 63 


1, 56 ,430 
1 ,46 ,398 
1 , 07 , 144 


1 ,04 ,248 


1 ,09, 898 


1965-66 
1965-66 
1963 -64 
1963 -64 
1966-67 
1965-66 
1963 -64 


1573 


1 ,05 , 121 
1,12- 550 
1 ,12,780 


Na 


1962-63 


1,31 ,448 
1,20 ,580 
1,59 ,554 
1, 18 ,460 
1,67,311 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1966-67 


1,03, 118 


Home $ (11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1900 / NYALSTHA 16 . 1090 


2819 


1580 J. M . Hanivari, Gharan s Pole, Ahmeda 
bad 

. . . . . . ndı. 
1581 Ishwarlal Dayaram , Lal Darwaja , Surat . » 
1582 J. B . Haribhakti , Lal Darwaja , Ahmedabad , 
1983 Jaglivandag Tilbuyandas , Pada Pole , 

GandhiRoad , Ahmedabad 


1965-66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 15 ,975 
1 ,35,408 
4 ,11,605 
14 , 44 ,031 

1 , 23 ,794 
1, 04 , 298 


1962 -63 


1915 ,643 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 
1966 -677 


1,08,960 
1, 11, 110 


1, 22 , 440 


1 , 84 ,890 


1984 Jagmohandas Ishwarlal Gandhi, Mahi 

dharpura , Ahmedabad 
1985 Jasvantlal Dalyabhai Reshamwala , Ram 

pura , Surat 
1586 Jayantilal Bhikhabhal , Parna Kunj, Am 

bawadi, Ahmedabad 
1587 Jayantilal Mohanlal Dhamanwala , Lal 

Darwala , Surat 
1588 Jaykrishna Harivallabhdas , Shahibag , 

Ahmedabad 
11589 Kantilal Manilal, Manck Crowk, Ahmeda 

bad 
1590 Kantilal Tricunlal, Manek Chowk, Ah 

madabad 
1591 Latitchandra Maganlal, Madan Zampa, 
Barode . 

. . . 


1, 42,330 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1966 -67 


” 
1 


2 ,80 ,968 
1 ,41, 736 
1 ,03,243 
1,25, 875 
1 ,01, 973 


1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 


1, 17 , 365 
1 , 13 , 438 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 


3,38,423 
1,98,124 


1 , 13 , 770 


1962 -63 
1957 - 58 


1 , 44 ,654 
1, 37 . 586 


1963-64 


1 , 17 , 296 


1,33, 440 


1592 M . M . Khambhatwala , Akasheth Kuwas 

Pole , Raipur , Ahmedabad . 
1593 Mahendra Ratilal, Mahidharpun , Şurat 33 
1594 Mahendra Shantilal, Manek Chowk , 

Ahmcdabad . 
1595 Maheshkumar Amratlal Dhamanwala, 

Ruytompura , Suart , 
1596 Mancklal Premchand ,Outside Panchkuva, 
Alimedabad 

H . U . F . 
1597 Mangaldas Jeshingbhai, Manek " Chowk, 

Alimedabad 
1598 Manilal Gafoorbhai, Tukri, Cimbay : Indl. 
1599 Manilal Tesingbhai, Manek chowk , Ah 

medabad . . . . . » 
1600 Manubhai Bhikhabliai Parna Kunj, 

Ambawadi, A bad 
165 Dr. Manubhai D . Patel, Opp . Railway 

Station , Baroda 
1602 Manubhai Premchand, Outside Pankorc 

Nake, Alimedabad . . . . » 
1593 Minuni Trib iyvandas, Manek chowk , 

Ahm :dabad . . 
1604 

. HU.F . 
1605 Mathurbhai Veribhai, Saraspur, Ahmeda 
bad 

Indl. 
1606 Mohanlal Chunilal Dhamanwala , 

Lal Darwajı , Surat 
1607 Mohanlal Jethabhai Reshamwala, Ram 

pura , Surat 
1608 Mohanlal Premra ), New Cloth Market, 

Alimedabad . 
1609 Mohanlal- Ramnarayan , New Cloth Mar 

ket , Ahmedabad . . . . . » 


1966 -67 
1965-66 


1 ,01 , 120 


1964 -65 
1966 - 67 


1 ,07, 245 
1, 15 ,690 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 45 ,020 
1, 90 , 820 


3 ,08 ,488 


1, 94 , 180 


1962-63 
1964-65 
1966 - 67 
1965-66 


1,04,210 
1,04 ,013 


* 1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,13 ,237 
1 , 15, 980 


2820 


THE GAZETTI OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


1,58, 182 


1962 - 63 
1966 - 67 
1962- 63 
1963 -64 
1966 -67 


1, 36 , 09 
2:27, 535 
1, 19 , 190 


1. 3879 


3 , 12 , 320 


1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1965- 66 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,68,C59 
I . C 6 .070 
1 , 20 , 178 
7 , 34. 931 
4 , 43, 159 


1963 -64 
1962-63 


1 ,04 , 708 
2 ,79,013 


1962-63 


2 , 20 ,359 


1,23,747 


1965- 66 
1962 - 63 
I562 -63 
1965 -66 


1 , 06 , 300 
1 ,42,250 
1,23,726 


1 , 28 ,023 


1610 Motilal Shankerlal , Gheekanta Road , 
Ahmedabad 

Indl. 
1611 Munir B . Datel, Behind Relief Talkies, 

Ahmedabad 
1612 N . K . Dyer Jethabhai s Pole , Khadia , 

Ahmedabad 
1613 N.N . Patel, Lakha Patel s Pole , Ahmeda 

bad 
1614 N .P . Kinariwala , 148, Garden Arca, Mani 

nagar, Ahmedabad 
1615 Nanubhai B . Amin , Alembic Colony, 

Baroda . 
1616 Narottspe Lalbhai, Pankore Nika, Ahmeda 

bad 
1617 Nathubhai Dahyabhal, Rampura, Surat 
1618 Natverlal Gandabhei, Mahidharpura , Surat , 
1619 Natverlal Ighwarlal, Lal Darwaja , Surat . , 
1620 Natverlal P . Shah , Khadia Char Rasta , 

Ahmedabad 
1621 Natwerlal M . Patel, Aikapuri, Baroda : 
1622 Navnitlal Ranchhodlal, Kothari Pole , 

Ahmedabad . . . . . 
1623 Niranjan M . Mehta, Shri Remji s Sheri, 

Khadia , Ahmedabad . 
1624 P . C . Thakkar, Dariepur, Lungawad , 

Ahmedabad " . 
1625 P . J. Vakharia , Salabatpura, Surat 
1626 P . U . Reshamwala , Chank Bezer , Surat , 
1629 Smt. Padmaben Papalal, Cross Lade , 

Ahmedabad 
1628 Smt. Padmavati Jaykrishna, Shahibag, 

Ahmedabad 
1629 Panechand B . Parikh , Lakha Patel s Pole, 

Ahmedabad . . . . . » 
1630 Paragraf Ganpatra ), New Cloth Market," 

Ahmedabad . 
1631 Parshottemdas Mohanlal Dhamanwaarde 
Lal Darwaja , Surat : 

Indi. 
1632 Pooranraj Ganpatraj, New cloth Market, 

Ahmedabad 
1633 Popatial Premchand,Marek Chowk, ” 

Ahmedabad 
1634 Pradyumana N . Patel, Alker uri, Barrda 
1635 Prakashchandra I. Gandhi, Ashwapikumar ** 

Road , Surat 
1636 Prandal A . Thakore , Khedia , Ahmedebed 
1637 Pravinchandra Ishwarlal Gandhi, Mahid 

herpura, Surat . . . . » 
1638 Smt, Pushpavati Kantilal, Menck chowk 

Ahmedabad . 
1639 R . D . Thakkar, Dariapur, Ludbewed , 

Ahmedabad . 
1640 Rajnikant Surajram Chevli, Begempura, 

Surat 
1641 

Baroda 
1642 Ramanbhai B . Patel, Azad Society, Ahmeda 

bad 
1643 Ramanlal Balwantlel, La Dengia Suret , 
1644 Ramanlal Vadilal Vejalpur Tal. Kalol HUF. 
1645 Rameshchandra Dåbyabhai Reshapiwalo , 

Rempura , Surat 


1966- 67 
1966 -67 
963 -64 


2 ,40 ,067 
1 ,20 ,337 


1,04,410 


1965-66 
1964-65 
1965 -66 


1,96 , 160 
1,01, 158 


1966 - 6 , 
1962 -63 


1 , 44 , 326 
1, 39 , 506 


1965 - 66 
1962-63 


1 ,66 , 897 
1 ,02 , 650 


1965-66 


1,02 , 804 


2963- 64 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 - 67 


Ramanbhai B. Amin, Alembic 


Colony, ” 


12 ,17, 382 
( 1,06 ,505 
| 1, 19 ,481 
( 3 ,82 ,467 

1,03,384 
2 , 78 , 773 
( 1,37, 605 
1,04 ,010 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


• 


Indi. 


1966 -67 


SEC. 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2821 


5 


Indl. 


1,24,354 


1646 Ramoshchandra IshwarlalGandhi, Mabi 

dharpura, Surat 
1617 Ramkrishna Harivallabhdas, Shahlbag , 

Ahmedabad 
1648 Ranchholhai Ashabhai, Rudei, Borsad 
1649 Prince Ranjitsingh P . Gawkwad , Laxmi 

niyas Palace , Baroda , , . , 


1965 -66 
1965 -67 
1962 - 63 


1 , 28 , 760 
1 , 16 ,378 


- 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 06 , 221 
4 , 02 , 801 
1, 65 ,092 
1, 33 ,415 
1 ,82 ,730 
1,02,652 


1966 -67 
1964-65 


1 ,05, 315 
1 , 20 ,412 


LVILA ) 


44 


. 


. 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1962-63 


7 , 74 , 935 
3 ,07, 760 
7, 44 ,686 
3,31, 877 
9, 85,666 


1650 Raojibhai C . Amin , Baroda . . . ] 
1651 Rasiklal DihyabhaiReshamwala ,Rampura , 

Surat 
1652 Ratllal Gandabhai,Mihidharpura , Surat 
1653 Ravindra Chinubhai, Ellis Bridge Abmede 

bad . . . 
1654. Rohitbhai Chinubhai, Bils . 
655 Bridge, Ahmedabad , 
Do. 

HUR. 
1656 Prince Sangrensingh P. Gackwad , Laxml 

vilas Place , Baroda , 
1657 Late Sarabhai Chlmanlal, Legal hoir 

Smt. Krachanban Sarabhai, Navrang 

pura , Ahmodabad 
6658 Sampatra Promra ), Now Cloth Market, 

Ahmedabad 
1659 Shambhulal Chhotalai , Lal Darwaja , " 

Suret 
1650 Shantilal Hiralal, Ashwanikumar Road , " . 
Surat 

, H . U . F . 
1661 ShashikantN . Patel, Alkapuri, Baroda : Iadi, 
1662 Shripal Chinubhai, Pagkoro Naka , Ab 

medabad 


. 


. 


Indl 


1 ,21,850 
1 , 50 , 578 
1 , 06 , 663 


1,38,990 


1964-65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1962-63 


1,07, 132 


2 ,87 ,034 


1,32.408 
1, 39 , 506 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1964-65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


1663 Sushdoo T .Kangara, Billimora 


1 , 00 , 737 
1, 09 ,226 
1,04 ,282 
1 , 19 ,336 
1, 36 , 534 
1 ,27,689 
1,04,310 


. 


, 


und 


1965 -66 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1963-64 


1 , 36 , 265 
1 ,02,320 
3 , 69 , 140 
1,77,917 


1, 15,761 
10 ,40 ,611 


1664 Surajram Hiralal, Agwapikumer Road , 

Surat 
1665 T . J . D : 11, Railwaypura , A bad 
1666 TrikamalMincklal, Ahmedabad : : Indi. 
1667 Tushar B . Dalal, Bohind Reliol , Talkica , 

Ahmedabad 
1663 Vedilal Lalubhai; Ellis Bridge, Ahmeda ” 

bad . 
1669 Vasant Weaving Works, Prop : Gulabben " 

Chhotalal, Lal Darwaja , Surat 
1670 Smt. Vimla Siddharthbhai, Pagkoro Naka , 

Ahmsdebad 
1671 Sini. Vimlabon Vallal, Ellis Bridge Ah 

m . labad 
1672 Smt. Virmati Ramkrishna, Shahibag , " 

Ahmedabad 
1673 Veajlal Mohanlal Dhamanwala , Lal Dar . ” 

waja , Surat 
1674 Yodhral Girdharilal, New Cloth Market, ” 

Ahmedabad . . . . . >> 


1966 - 67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1965 - 66 


1, 24 ,440 


1 ,41,722 


1962-63 
1966 -67 


3 ,76 ,441 
2,41,302 


1964-65 


1,88,390 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1, 22 , 142 
1,23, 940 


2822 


THE GAZITIT OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYALSTHA 18. 1890 


(PART II 


1. Nombudidpad. Ind . 


1963-641 
1962 -63 


1963- 64 
1964 -65 
1961-62 
1966 - 67 


(1, 39 ,250 
( 1,46,444 
( 1 , 14 , 190T 
11, 78 , 8701 
11 , 75 ,630 
11 ,94, 940 


1966 - 67 
1965 - 66 

1966 - 67 
1966 - 67 
1966 - 67 


11 , 06 ,657 
1, 06 ,88017 

1, 10 , 3237 
[ 1 , 23 , 781 
2 , 19 , 879- 1 


1 
- - 

KERALA 
1675 A . J. Lopez , : Hrnakulam 
1676 A . K . T . K . M . Vasudevan ,Nombudiripad . 

Tricher , 
1677 A . S. Guna Shenoy, Partner M /s. Now " 

Guna Co ., Ernakulam 
1678 Alexander C . Cherlan , Cochin . 
1679 Anbat Fachukutty Menon , Chittur ; 
1680 Mrs. Anjeli Şaigal, Cochint ) . 
1681 B . Madhava Ballga , Partner M /s . Bbaga. 

van Ganesh Pai, Candadoro 
1682 Babu Jairam Asber , Cochin 
1683 C . C . Moni, Kolępcherry . 
1684. C . L . Joseph , Clo C . P . Lonappan & Sons , 

Trichur . 
1685 C. L . Lona, Clo C . P. Lonappan & Sons 

Trichur . 
1686 c. L . Pulu , c /o C . P . Lonappan & Sons , ” 

Trichur 
1687 C. V. Sabastian , Clo M /s. Sabastian & Co., " 

Post Office Road , Trichur . . . 
1688 Cheria Pathrosc, Kolencherry 
1689 B . K . Mohamed , Ellimootil , Kummanu 
1690 G . J. Asher, Cochin 
1691 H . H . Gowri Lakobmi Bai, Kaudiyar 

Palace, Trivandrum . 
1692 H . H . GowriParwathi Bal, Kaudiyar Palace 

Trivcadrum 
1093 Haji K . Assainar, Chengapacherry Kotta 

yam Dt. . 
1694 Hari Pothen , Partner M /s. Kulathunkal 

Motor Corporation , Trivandrum . . 
1695 J. Kesava Mudaliar, Timber Merchant, 

Kallai, Calicut- 3 . . . . 
1696 J . C . Strange, Travancore Tea Estate Co . 

Ltd ., Vandiperiyar . 
1697 J. P . Mohan , Partnor , Kulathunkal Motor 

Corporation , Trivandrum , 
1698 John Thomson , C /o M /8. J. & P . Coats, ” 

Koratty . . . . . . . 


1966 -671 
1966 - 67 


2,01, 233 
2, 39 , 186 


1963 - 64 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1963 - 64 
1965 - 66 


11,09 , 978 

1 , 52 , 540 
11 , 88 ,370 
( 1,91, 950 
( 1, 05 ,488 


1966 - 671 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1962-63 
1965 -66 


( 1, 36,609 
11 , 11,096 

1 , 98 ,719 
( 1,46 , 366 
( 1, 26 ,651 


1966 -67 


1962 - 63 


11, 74,050 
( 1,43, 569 
1 ,08, 722 
1 , 39 ,621 
( 1 , 18 ,850 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1962-63 


2 ,95457 


1966 -67 
1966- 67 


I , 11 ,882 
1 ,08 , 778 


1699 K . J. Pothon , Managing Partner M /s . 

KulathunkelMotor, Corpn . , Trivandrum 
1700 K . P . Varghese, Partner M /s. K . P , Ver 

ghese & Sons, Ernakulam .. 
1701 K . V . Poulose , Partner, 1 - Do . . 
1702 K . Gopinathan Nair, Cashew Exporter, 

Quiloni 
1703 K . Hariraya Kamath , Timter Merchants , 

Kasargode 
1704 K . Janardhanan Pillai, Cashew Exporter , 

Quilon . . . . . . 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


2 ,74 ,530 
1, 18,612 


>> 


1 , 00 ,490 
1 ,25, 560 


1705 K . Kochukrishnan Nair, Coetha Auto 

mobiles , Calicut 
1706 Kurian Abrahem , Calicut Tyre Reticadirg " 

Co ., Calicuti 
1707 Late X . Madhavan Nair by Legal Hcir " 

E . K . Ramakrisboep , Edattara . 
1908 H . H . Lakshmi Bai, Kaudiyar Palace , 

Trivandrum . . 
1909 M . K . Kuriakkoco, Kolerceiry 


1966 - 67 
1964 -65 
1963-64 
1966- 67 
1966 - 67 


1,25, 760 
1,75,736 
1, 01 ,605 


1, 43 , 109 
1, 23 ,630 


Spa ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1840 


2829 


- 


R 


3 


HEEF 


- 


- 


- 


- 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


1710 


M 


1711 M 
1712 M 
1713 M 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 
1965 - 66 


1 ,82 , 300 
1 ,53,020 
1 , 16 ,510 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 30 , 940 
1 , 22 , 810 


1714 N 
1715 N 


Timber Morchant Kallei , 
i, Calicut : : Indl. 
hews, Alwaye 
eyl, C . K , Landlord , Telli- » 
· Kelencherry 
nja Iyer , Kishakkemacem , 

. . . . . HUF 
ran , Partner , Sadhoo Beedi 
inanoje 

. . Indl. 
kumari, Partner, 
za Pillai, Cashew Exporter, 
Pillai, Cashew Exporter , n 
-an Pill Cashew Exporter , ” 


1962- 63 


3 , 63 , 599 


1776 


P . 


1966 -67 

Do. 


3 , 74 ,030 
2 ,31,650 


1717 P . 
1718 
1719 


1964 -615 
1965 - 66 


1,06 , 930 
2 ,67, 920 
2,96 ,270 


1720P 


Do. 


1721 


ieso , Travancore Timbers & 
Cottayam . . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1, 33 ,618 
2 , 28 ,960 


1722 P . 


1965- 66 


Do . 


1 , 03 , 020 
4 , 73 , 800 


1962-63 

Do. 


1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,47, 914 
1, 70,382 
3 , 98 ,910 
3,41,070 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


an Pillai, Cashow Exportet, 
1723 P . Lakshmanan Pillai, . Do , : 
1724 P. Narayanan Nair, Snaraj Motors, Ko 

ttayam 
1725 Late Paul Abrao, Cochin - 3 . . 
1728 P . Sathrugnan Pulai , Cashew Exporter , 

Quilon 
1727 P , Yagoda , Partner, Sadhoo Beedi Depot 

Cannanore . . . . . » 
1728 R . Ramakrishnan Chettiar, Merchant , 

Calicut . 
1729 H . H . Sir Rama Varma, Maharaja of 

Travancorc , Trivandrum . 
1730 S . Anandji Shah , S . M . Street , Calicut 
1731 H . H . Sethu Parvathi Bai,Kaudiyar Palace , 

Trivandrum , 
1732 Sursingh Jairam Asher , Cochin . 
1733 Thomas Cherian , Cochin 
1734 U . B . M . Fernandez , Cashew Exporter, 

Quilon . . . . . . 
1735 V . T . Thomas, Vadakkam House , Chen 

galam . . 
1736 V . V . George, Jai Hind Agencies , Cochin , 
1777 V . Balakrishnan Nair , Balakrishna Bros., 

Trichur . 
1738 V . Damodaran ,Managing Director , R . K . v." 

Motors & Timber (P ) Ltd ., Trivandrum . „ 
1739 V . Madhavan Nair, Clo , M /8. Balakrishna 

Bros ., Trichur . . 
1740 V . Seshagisi Bhat ,Merchant, Tellicherry , 
1741 V . Raman Nair , C /o. M /s, Balakrishna Bros. * 

Trichur . . . . . . » 


Do . 


1,01,879 , 
9 , 16 , 860 ; 
1 ,00 ,917 
4 ,70, 540 
1 ,06 ,256 
1 ,37, 031 
1 ,53, 700 " 


1965 -66 
1964 -65 


Do , 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1966 - 67 
1962 -63 


1,05,760 
( 1,34 ,465 
( 1, 20,856 
( 1, 39, 510, 
1 , 14, 118 
1,08, 431 


1966 -67 

Do. 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 11 , 000 
1,41, 995 


HUF 


MADHYA PRADESH 
1742 Abhyakumar Clo . M /s. Ratanchend 

Darbarilal, Katni 
1743 Ahildas Motwani, Lakhenagar, Raipur , Indi. 
1744 Anarsingh Attarsingh , Harda . , HUF 
1745 B . B . Bhargava , Prop . Ice Machinery 

Mart, Gwalior Road , Gwalior , Ind 


1962-63 

Do. 
Do . 
Do . 


1 , 12 , 159, 
1 , 12 ,447 
1,43,369 
1,47, 066 


2824 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


Indl. 


2 ,91, 177 


1962 -63 
1964-65 
1955- 156 
1962- 63 

Do. 


1 ,02, 250 
3 , 80 , 000 


Do. 


Do . 


1 ,03 . 473 
1, 56,236 
1 , 13 , 945 
3 , 04 ,517 
1 ,64, 190 


1966 -67 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


2 , 14 ,372 
1,05, 981 


1965- 66 
1962 -63 


1 , 24 , 506 
2 , 59 , 403 


Do . 


Do. 


1, 83 ,059 
1,11, 916 
1 ,04 , 608 
1 , 34 ,544 


Do , 


ÅÅÅÅÅÅ 


Do . 


Do. 


2 ,51,346 
1,33 ,400 


Do 


1,32, 000 


1746 Babur Rao Pimplapuro, Sagar 
1747 M /s Bokalmo Industries , Kibe 
A Compound , Indore 

HUF 
1748 Chandekhan , Topkhana Rd . Indore Iadi. 
17491 Chaturbhujbhai Shivjibhai, Gorakhput, 

Jabalpur 
1750 M /s. Chhaganlal H . Mittal, Indore " . HUF 
1951 Chimanlal Umali , MTCM , Indore Indl. 
1752 Chintaman Rao Balaji, Sagar 
153 D . D . Young Clo . Associated Electrical 

Indug. Ltd . , Bhopal 
1754 D . P . Mandelia C /o . J . C . Mills Ltd .. " 

Gwalior 
1755 Dayabhai Jaichandbhal, Bhandara . HUF 
1756 Dcoral P /s , M /8 . Dcorai Jogcodrapal, 

Ujjain . 
1757 Devendra Kumar Patel, Sagar . 
1758 Deodi Shamla Prop. Late Nawabzada 

Rasblduz Zafar Khan , Bhopal 
1759 Dhanyakumar C /o . M / s. Ratanchand 
Darbarilal, Katot. 

, HUF 
1760 Dharamdas Agarwal Prop . Ramsaran 

Nathulal, Katni 
1761 Gopcbaran Partner of M /8. Shyam 

charan Gopicheran , Raipur 
1762 Smt. Gulab Ben w /o Late Shri Kewal 

Chand Vora , oxecutrix of late $ bri 

K . R . Vora, Mount Road , Nagpur , » 
1763 H . P . Pathak , Kymore, Katni . . 
1764 Hansra Bhandari, Nowgong, Distt . 

Chhatarpur 
1765 Hazarllal Dcokishandas, Piparla, Distt . 

Hoshangabad . 
1766 Smt. Indramani Mandelia c/o. J.c. 

Mills Ltd ., Gwalior . 
1767 Smt. Jadav Bai Plo , M /a. Mobanlal 

Hargovinddas, Gole Bazar, Jabalpur . 
1768 Jaswantlal Dayalal, Ralpur Plo , M /8 . 

Dayalal Meghji & Co. 
1769 Jayantiprasad B / . Nanji Haridos, Kymore, " ** 

Katni 
1970 K . L . Gupta & Co ., Katni . 
1771 Kalekhan Jumman Khan Plo , M /s . 

Kalekhan M . Hanif, Bhopal 
1772 Keshaoji Narsi Mahasamund . 
1973 Smt. Laxmiben wlo Shri Chimenlal 
Umaji, MTCM , Indore , 

* 
1774 Madhukar Rao Pimplapure Sawan 
1775 Manilal Ananddi, Gondia : 
1776 Manmohandas Jagmohandas , Hanumant 

lal, Jabalpur . 
1777 Maneklal Motilal Agarwal, Ratlam Indi. 
1778 H . H . Maharaja Mert and Singhjidco 

Maharaja of Rewa . 
1779 Master Stato Factory , Gwalior ; 
1780 M /s. Meghji Girdharilal Baghana ,Necmu -. 

. . . . . , HUF 
1781 Mohd . Aziz Plo . Ms. Kalethan u 
Hanif, Bhopal 

Indl. 
1782 Mohd. Hanif Plo , M /8 . 
1783 Mohd . Islam Plo , M /s . Do . 
1784 Mohanlal C / o M /s. Murarilal Mohanlal, 

Saayogitaganj, Indoro . . . ” 


1, 37 ,638 


Do 


Do . 


1, 02 ,614 
8 ,81,743 
( 1, 38,471 


Do. 


1 ,00 ,998 
1 ,02 ,934 


) ) 


1 ,88 ,426 
1 ,41, 366 


Do 


1 , 20 , 045 
2 , 46,736 
I , 12 ,522 


Do . 

Do . 
1955 -56 
1962-63 

Do. 


1 , 76 ,032 
1 , 16 , 150 


1963- 64 
1965- 66 


1 ,62, 844 
1 , 30 ,812 


1962 -63 


5 ,00 , 000 


1 , 19,479 
1 , 88,881 
1 , 26 ,841 


1,07,954 


Sec. 3 ( 18)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2825 


- 


, 


Indi, 


Do . . 


Do . 


1 ,07,354 
1 ,50 ,510 
2 , 49 ,083 


Do . 


1962 -63 
1959 - 60 
1962 -63 


1 , 00 , 120 

1, 24, 833 
21, 70 ,620 

I , I1, 890 
1 ,14, 117 


Do. 


1959 -60 


1962 -63 

Do . 
1966 -67 


8 , 10 , 095 
1,41,366 
1, 27 , 590 


1962- 63 
Do. 
Do . 


1 ,97, 289 
4 ,49 ,888 
1,06 ,310 


1735 Minicialal Clo M / s . . 
1735 N . C . Zinizdar, Indoro 
1137 Niroira Kini Patel, Sagar 
1733 Nithili Hirakcinad , Badnagar Distt. 
Dhar 

HUF 
1739 O . P . Bakshi, Nagpur : 

Indk 
1732 Onrao Singh Gupta , Ratlam 
1791 M /1. Oikerji K13tirchand , Indore HUF 
17 ) P1111lal Gvairo & S ) .18 , Raipur 
17 ) 3 Paralind Bhai Patol, Gylo Bazar , 
Jalpur 

Indl . 
> Prozji Niest , Mihagamind . . HUF 
17 ) Prilitanlal Shivlal, Jabalpur 

Indl. 
17 ) Pershortambhal P . Patol C /o P . P . Patel 

& Co., MimiraniR 1 , Indoro . >> 
1797 R . C . Jall, Mhow . . 
1793 R .K . Pulsikar, Indore i : HUF 
1792 Ranchandra Badripragad Gour & Sons , 
Katni 

- Horn 
13 ) 

Riiaachaar Bhulanath , Jabalpur 
18 ? M "3 , Ritilal Bechardas , Lashkar, Gwalior 
132 Sosnullin Vakil, Jaora 
13 ) | Szivath Ayantlal, Khirkiya . 

HUF 
1891 M /s. Shri Krishna Chandmal, Todore 
1375 1 Suya.nyunder Agarwal, Sihora , Distt. 

Jabalpur . 
1875 Sicaram Rin 113, MICM , Indoro . Indi. 
137 Siti le pragad Taswal, Shahdol 

HUR 
( 3 3 Sn :. Ujiam Bli Plo M 9 , Mohanlal Har 

Ilgovin 1das , Gblo Bazar, Jabal pur. . Indl. 
13 ) H . H . U19Divi, Indora L / H of Late 

Yes ıwintre Hikar ,Manikbag Palaco , 

Indore 
( 819 Vimalkumar Thakurla plo M /s . Asha 

D : p Pictures , Indore 
131 Wazir Şing Poop : Allied Electrical 

In 1us . Ltd . , Bhopal 
MADRASI 

Smt/Shrl 


: HUF 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


143, Lashkar. 

. 


, Indi. 


1963-64 
1962 - 63 

Do . 


1 , 19 ,604 
1 ,43,673 
1,48 , 829 
1 , 20 , 000 
1 ,69, 316 
4 ,37,588 
1, 68 ,069 
1 , 14 ,690 
1 , 18 ,619 
21,35 ,616 


Do. 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


Do . 


Do. 


3 ,32, 160 
1, 32 ,428 


2 ,82 , 000 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 


1,42, 469 
1, 23 ,343 


1812 A . B . A janthakrishgan , C /oKrishna & Co ., 

14 , Jaffar Syrang St. , Midras 
1303 A3 11 :17i81110 , Mercantile Bank 

Buildlags, Madras - i. . . 
[814 A .D . Muton , Olo A & P. Harvey Ltd., 

West Volo St. Madurai 
1815 D :. A .J. Mshta, ,, M . Nichols . Rd . 
Madras . 

, , , , 


» 


1, 31, 250 
1,31,250 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 - 67 

Do . 
1962 - 63 
1963 - 64 


1 , 29 ,710 


" 
, 


1816 A. K. Barcha Sahib , Bus Owner, Chetper, " 


1, 51 ,917 
2 , 23 ,453 
1,69 ,073 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


11, 12 ,440 

1, 39 , 182 


Polur Taluc. . . . . . 
1817 A . R . Shanmugam Pillal, Director , South 

Indian Bank Ltd ., Tirunelveli 
1818 A . R . Sunderarajan , Sivakasi 
819 A . W . Stanfield , c /o M / s Best & Co. (P ) 

Ltd ., Midras . 
1820 A.R.A .Valliammei Achi, 13,Wh catcropi 

Road , Madras 
1321 AR RM . Ugyal Acai, 9 , Kothari Rd ., 

Madr89 - 34 . 
1322 A. Alazriswami, 713, Abiramapuram ,4th 

St., Madras - 18 . 


Do. 


" 


1962-63 


( 1, 95,809 
1, 10 ,260 
1,41,490 
1,05,897 


Do. 


" 


1966 -67 


2826 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JUNE 8, 1988 / TYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART 1 


1823 A . Ramaswami Mudaliar , 464 , Poonamaikce 

High Road , Madras 10 . . 
1824 Abdul Gaffer Şahib , 60 , Chinnathambi 
St. Madrag . . 

. . . 


Indi. 


1966 -67 


1 ,38, 167 


» 


1961- 62 
1963- 64 


4 , 04 , 780 
1 ,06 ,610 


1962 -63 

Do. 


1,08 ,573 
1, 60 ,290 


1829 Abdullabhoy J. Bhagat, 10 , Sembudoss 

St. Madras - 1 
1826 Amritlal Kamdar, 23, Errabalu Chetty 

St. Madras 
1827 B . C . Kothari, 2 , Errabalu Chetty St., 

Madras - I . 
1828 B . V . S . Mani, os , Broadway , Madras . 
1829 B . Rajagopal Naidu , Bus Owner, Gudiya 

tham . • • • • • 


1966 -67 

Do , 


1 ,40 , 182 
1 ,41,680 


• 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 ,25,523 
2 ,71,616 
2 ,31,634 


1964-65 
1965 - 66 
1958 -59 


1 ,06 ,336 
3,48, 724 


1943,538 


1, 16 , 4 ) 


1966 -67 

- do 


1 , 173781 
1 , 16 ,000 


- do 


1830 B . RamiRoddy , No. 11, Bishop waller s 

Avenue, West Mylapore , Madras - 4 . » 
1831 B . Vittalacharya, 63, Cangatheeswarar 

Koll St ., Madras- 7 
1832 Balakrishna Goenka, Godown 

Madras , . . . , HUF 
1833 C .A . Mohd. Haniff, 143, East Mast St., 
Madurai . 

. . 

Indl. 
I 

Indi. 
1834 C.A. Sheik Dawood , No. 143, East Masi 

St., Madurai . . 
1835 C . M . Abdul Salam , " do . . » 
1836 C . M . Nagesh , 45 - A , St. Mary s Road , 

Madras - 28 . 
1837 C .S . Loganathan , 175/I , Mount Rd., 

Madras-2 
1838 c. Adikesavalu Chetty, No. 95, Broadway ” 

Madras , 
1839 c. Sundaram , 7, Kynieppa Naick st. » 

Madras - I 
1840 Chandulal Kamdar, 23, Errabalu Chetty " 
St., Madras . . 

. 
1841 D . B . Madam , 164 , Broadway , Madras . 

» 
1842 D . C . Kothari, Oriental Building , Arma 

nlan St., Madras - I . . 


2 ,02 ,757 
4 ,61,471 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 
1962 - 63 


1, 19 ,477 


1 , 29 ,240 


- do 
1966 - 67 


1 ,45,420 
1 ,48 , 370 


1963- 64 
1965-66 

-do 


1,34 ,567 
1 ,88,851 


1 , 50 ,910 


1966 - 67 
1956 - 57 
1962 -63 

-do 


. 


. 


Indi. 


1843 D . N . Law , C /o Binny & Co . Madras - I , 
1844 D . Subba Reddy , No. 11, Bishop Waller s 

Avenue, West, Madras - 4 . 
1845 Dwarkadas Rameshwar Goenka, 67: 

hwar Goenka . 67 , Godown 
St., Madras , 

HUF 
1846 E .V . Ramaswamy Naicker, No. 1, Meeran 

, Sahib St., Madras - 2 . 
1847 G . D . Vaswani, 18 - A , Godowa St., Madras » 
1848 G . Venkatamuni, No 6 , Linghi Chetty 
St ., Madres - I . 

HUF 
1849 Ganapathia Pillai, C /o Ganapathia Motor 
Service , Nagercoil . 

Indi. 
1850 H . C . Kothari, Oriental Buildings, Arme 

nian St., Madras - I . 
1851 H . V . R . Iyanga , C /o M / s Parry & Co. 
Ltd . , Madras 

. 
1852 Harris Nadar , Palliyadai, Nagercoil 
1853 Hemandas C . Mohthani, 192 , Mount Rd., 


- do 


1,63, 050 
1,80 ,78 % 
1,60 ,113 
1 ,45 ,713 
1,68 ,890 
1, 09 , 780 
1,73, 347 
1, 20 ,232 
1, 49, 248 


1966 -67 
1965-66 


-do 
1963-64 


1, 11,751 


1854 Hussainbhoy J. Bhagat, 10, Sembudosa 
1855 Mrs . 1.D . Kothari , Oriental Buildings ; 


* 
" 


1964 - 65 
1962 - 63 


St., Madras - I 


. 


1, 50 , 015 


Armenian St., Madras - I , - 


» 


- do 


1 , 00 , 092 


Inc . 8(1 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2827 


1, 10 , 900 


1965-66 
1962 -63 


1,44 , 892 


116 N18. Ide L . Chomberg, Clo Chrome 

TIeather Co., Madras - 44 . 
| 1857 Issardes S. Lulla, 9/1, Angemuihu Naick 

I St., Medres - 1 
1858 J.F. Irek , Clo Medura Mills , Lid ., 

Medusai 
7849 J.H . TorejcIC, 175/1, Mount Roed ,Mad 
1860 J.S. Victoria, C/o Victoria Hostel, Madira 


* 
" 


1966 -67 


1 , 58 , 100 


tas - 2 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 


4 : 36 , 044 
1 ,42,583 
1 ,39, 988 
2 , 16 , 401 


1962- 63 


1,40 ,538 


1966 -67 

-do 


1,62, 902 
1 ,05, 117 


- do 


1 ,00, 147 


- do 
- do 
- do 


1966 -67 


1965 -66 


1861 K . M . Parthasarathy Chetty , 14 , Vallam 

Bangaru Chetty St., Madras - 7 . 
1862 K . R . Padmenabha Rao , 61, Pycrots Road , 

Madras - 5 . 
1863 K . S , Vaidyanathan , Madras . 
1864 K .V . Mahadevan , 39, G .N . Chetty St., 

Madras - 17 . 
1869 K . Ethirajulut Chetty , 4, Stringers St., » 
1866 K . Gopalakrishnan, 29, Mount Rd., " . 

Madras - 2 . 
1867 K . Krishnamurthy Mudaliar, 201, Mint 

St., Madras , 
1868 K . Mahesh , (Minor) C /o T .V . S. & Sons, 

West Veli St. , Madurai . . 
1869 K . Radha Bai, No. 24, Mount Road , 

Medras - 2 
1870 K . Ramesh C / o T . V . $ . & Sons, 

West Veli St., Madurai 
1871 K . Seethalakshmi, Partner in Rajah Mills 

Madurai . . . 
1872 . K . Srinivasan , Advocate , Madras - 14 
1873 K . Suresh , C / o T . V . S . & Sons, West 
Veli St., Madurai , , . 

» 
1874 Kantha Kaur, 133, Mount St., Madras - I » ] 
1875 Krishnabat, 3 /66 , Thriuvottiyur High 

Road , Madras - 21 , . 
1876 L . B . K , Lakshmana Mudaliar , BcediMcr 

chant , Vellore . . 
1877 L . Alagasundarem Chettiar, C /o Mabalek 

shmi Textile Mills , Pasumalai, 

Madurai- 4 . 
1878 Lala Chand C . Mehta, 192 , Mount Rd., 

Madras - 21 . . . . . ] 


1,14 ,320 
1 ,02 ,146 
1,06,076 
1,04, 553 

1, 00 ,012 
· 1, 14 , 580. 

1, 29 ,88 
1, 11, 772 
1 ,11, 170 
1,11,438 


1966 -67 
1962-63 
1966 - 67 


-do 

-do 
1964 -65 
1962-63 
1963 -64 


1,61,470 


1 , 15 , 821 
1 ,09, 732 . 


1963 -64 


2 , 55,084 . 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


1, 14 ,018 
1 ,04 ,07 A . 


* HUF 


1962 -67 
1966 -67 


3, 35,836 
1,07, 320 


- 


- HUF 


1962-63 

- do 


1 , 18 ,750 
1 , 36 ,407 


All , Bus Owner, Vallen 


1879 Lalagopikrishna Gokuldas 114 , Mint St., 

Madras - 1 
1880 M .K . Raju , C /o India Pistons, Sembiam , 
Madras . . 

IndL } 
1881 M . L . M . Mahalingam , Tirupathur R 

Devakottai , 
1882 M . M . Ali , Bus Owner , Vellore , . Indl. . 
1883 M . R . Radha, No. 28, Venkataraman St., 

Madra3 - 28 , . 
1884 M .$ . Santhanam , 2/16, Linghi Chetty 

St., Madras . . 
1885 M .S . Sundarajan , 2 /16 , Linghi Chetty 

St., Madress : . 
1886 M .S . Viswanathan , 35, Santhoma High 

Road , Madra8 - 4 , . i . Indl. 


- do 


1, 58 ,366 
1, 67 ,842 
1, 17 ,821 


. . . HUR 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,64 . 775 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1, 17 701 


1966 - 67 


1 ,25, 298 


2828 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II – 


. 


1964 -65 
1965-66 


1,03,671 
1 , 39 , 712 


1961 -62 


1887 Mangaram C .Mehtani, 192, Mount Road , 
Madras . 

Indl. 
1888 M . Ramakrishnan , 17 , Thambu Chetty 

St., Madras- I . . . . . ” 
1889 Manickalal Fomra , 32- A , Mahal 3rd , St. 

Madurai 
1890 (Late) Mudalianda Mudaliar by Ponnu 

rangam , Bus Owner, Sholingur , , , 
1891 Muninatha Chettiar, Pennagaram . , HUP 
1892 Mot. Muthiah , 30 , Coral Merchant S 
Madras- I . . 

Indi. 
1893 N . C . Rangaswami Chetty, 8/ 80 , Pondy 

Bazar, T . Nagar, Madras 


( 1,09 ,800 


1965- 66 
1962-63 


4 , 04 ,477 
1 ,09, 545 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1, 63, 636 
1, 63 , 708 
1 ,64, 168 
2 , 11,299 
1 ,07, 564 


1894 N . Soundappan , Ellampillai . 
1895 N . Imayal Achi, 44 , Spurtank Road , 

Madras -31 . 
1896 Nanulal Bhat, 2 - A , Malayaperumal S 

Madras , . 


1, 12 ,585 
2 ,62 ,468 


1897 Nanickram C . Mehtani, 192 , Mount Road , " 


Madras . 


. 


. 


1964 -65 
1966 - 57 


1 , 12, 103 
1, 00 , 103 


1, 13 ,420 


1966 -67 

- do 


1 , 39 ,970 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 

-do 


2 ,25,313 
(1,49,040 
1, 48, 506 


f 1,04, 977 
( 1,40 ,982 


149,240 


1898 P .A .C .R . Ramagubramania Raja, Raja 

palayam . 
1899 P.B. Gibbon, cio Best & Co. (P) Ltd ., " 

Madras , 
1900 P.K. Japce, 99, Ryaniappa Neickn st., ” 

Madras - 11 . 
1901 P.N. Menon , c /o Best & Co: (P) Ltd ., » 

Madras . 
1902 P. R. Parandaman , Bus Owner, Gudiya: ” 

tham • 
1903 P . P . C . Soundarajan , 209 , East Masi St 
Madurai . 

HUF 
1904 P. Brahamayya, 337, Thambu Chetty St., 
Madras - 1 

ladı. 
1905 P . Nataraja Nado 

Madurai 
1906 Pratap Hansraj,ziz, Govindappa Nalcken ” 

St., Madras . 
1907 R .K . Janakiah Chetty , 17 , Rammanna S 

Madras . . . 
1908 R . Ramanathan Chettiar, 14 , Pachiayapa s 

Collego, Hostel Road , Madras . . HUF 
1909 Do. 

Indl. 
1910 Rabi Venkatesan, 247, China Bazar, 

Madras . 
+ 911 Rajammal, Salem 
1912 Ramesh Chandra Sutaria , 

Madras . . 
1913 Rasiklal Kumdar , 23, Errabalu Chetty St., ” 

Madras . 
1914 S.P. Chitnis , C/o Chitram & Co., Main ” 

Road , Royapuram , Madras - 13 . 
1915 S . V . Ranga Rao ,No. 190 , Habibullah 

Madras - 17 
1916 s. Abdu Azecz, 30 , Ramanuja Iyer St., " 

Madras- 21 . . . . . » 
1917 Estate of late S . Anantharamakrlshnan , 

202 / 203, Mount Road , Mairag - 2 . 
1918 S . Chandappa Iyer, Mettur . . . 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1961-62 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


1 ,70 , 714 
3,41,332 
2 ,05 ,613 
1 ,66 ,030 
4 ,63, 560 


1, 15 ,810 
1, 15 ,906 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966-67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 


1 ,36,633 
11, 47 680 
( 1,18,435 
( 1, 12,336 
12, 11,623 

1,26 ,763 


1965- 66 
1962 -63 


15, 90 , 760 
1,61, 401 


& a 8 (II)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2829 


- 


- 


1919 S . Gopal (Minor) C / T . V . S . Song, 

West Veli St, Madurai . . . Indl. 
1920 S . Mari Chettiar , Ellampillci 

. HUF 
1921 S . Muthukrishnan , 29, Mount Rd , Mad ,- 2 Indl, 
1922 S . Nageswara Rao , 1415 , Luz Church Road , 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1966 -67 


1, 09 ,272 
1 , 18 , 131 
1,05, 489 


Madras .. 


- do 

- do 
1962- 63 


1, 23,640 
1 ,77, 340 
1 , 57 ,820 


1 ,85 , 165 


1962-53 
1966 -67 


1 , 11,234 


1962 -63 
1952 -63 
1964 -65 


3 ,05,525 
1 ,03 ,300 
1, 09, 343 


1966 -67 


1, 19 , 780 


Do, 
Do. 


1 ,38 , 108 
1 , 55 , 193 


1 ,89, 142 


1923 S . Radhakrishnan , 14 / 15 , -do 
1924 S . Rajannam , Cloth Merchant, Elampillai » 
1925 S . Valliammai Achi, 1- B , H . H . Road , 
Madras . 

Indl, 
1926 S . Venu (Minor ) c /o T . vis. & Sons.. 

Weat Veli St., Madurai 
1927 S. Vijayaranga Mudaliar , Bus Owner, ” 

Vellore , 
1928 s. Zahural Huq : 55 , Basin Bridge Rd., " 

Madras -21 . . 
1929 T . K . Sivasamban , C /o Madura Mills 

Ltd ., Madural . 
1930 T . K . Varkay , 8 , Krishnamachary Road 

Madras - 34 
1931 T . M . Sadasiva Nadar, Virudhunagar . 
1932 T , S . Unnamalai Ammal, Legal heir of 

late K . M . Abbu Chettiar, 81, Perambur 

Barracks Road , Madras - 12 
1933 T . Ş . Krishna, C /OT. V . $ . & Sons ., West 

VeliSt.,Madurai in 
1934 T . S . Rajam , C /o Do. 
1935 T . S . Srinivasan , Do. 
1936 Latc T . Lakshmi Pathy Mudilar, by Legal 

hoir, Sri T . Seshachalam 1/66 , Malaya . 

perumal St., Madras , . , . » 
1937 T . Seshachalam , 1 /67. Do . 
1938 T . Sundaram Chettiar , C /o Meenakshi 

Mills , T . P . K . Road , Madurai 
1939 Tricumscc Hangaraj, NO. 212 Govindappe 
Naick St. , Madras - I . 

HUF 
1940 Dr. U . Vasudeva Rao , 69 , Landu Road , 

Madras - 7 
1941 V. A . Watts , C /o India Pistons , Sembiam , 

Madras . 
1942 V. K . Swamy, Confectioner, Usilampatti, " 

MaduraiDistt . 
1943 V. K . Thiruvenkatachari, 132 , Lloyds ” 

Road , Madras - 6 
1944 V . S. Lakshmanan , Film Distributor, 

Vellore , . . . . . » 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 

Do. 


2 , 25, 308 
1 , 72 ,480 
2 , 06, 590 


Do . 


1965-66 
1966 -67 
1960 - 61 


1966 -67 


Indl. 


Do. 


1,38 ,746 
2 ,06 ,992 
1 ,07,703 
1,73 ,830 
1,03, 195 
1,76 ,740 
1,10 ,580 
1 ,21,897 
1, 14 ,633 
1,42,235 


Do. 


Do, 


Do, 


1964 -65 


1965- 66 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1964 - 65 


1 ,36 ,362 
1 , 32 ,724 
1 ,27 , 772 


Do, 


1962 - 63 


1945 Dr. V . S . Subramanian , 88 /2 , R . K . Mutt 

Road , Madr43 - 4 . . . . . ” 
1946 V . Kcralan , Namıkkal . 
1947 V . Mohanrao, 6 , Linghi Chetty St., Madras 
1948 V , Rabindranath , 31- A , North Beach 

Road , Madras 
1949 v . Subramania Mudaliar, No. 16 , G . N . ” 

Chetty St. , T . Nagar , Madras - 17 
1930 V . Vembu Iyer , 4 , Mahatma Gandhi Road , 

Bangalore 
1951 V . Venugopal, 31 - A , North Bcach Road , 

Madras , . 
1952 V . Venkataraman , 202 - 203 , Mount Road , 
Madras . . 

· HUF 
1953 V . Varahaswamy Iyengar , Shri Rama 

Vilas Bus Service , No. 4 , Pattulo s Rond , 
Mount Road , Madras . . . Indl. 


1 , 02 ,689 
1,37, 820 
3 ,28 ,098 


Do . 


1, 17,617 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


I , 40 , 983 


Do. 


1,10 ,830 


2830 


TITE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


1965 -66 
1964 -65 


1, 25,25 
1, 15 ,350 


1965-66 


Do. 


Do . 
1966 -67 


1954 Vadilal P . Mehta , 7, Godown St., Madras Indl. 
1955 Z . Satrimdas , No, 2 /25, Do, 

MADRAS- II 
1956 A . Ka. CT . VCT. Annamalai Chettiar, 
Kottaiyur 

5. HUP 
-TÓS A . R . Narayana Rao , 2 , II Crescent Park 

Road , Madr19 - 20 
1958 A. Alagappa Gounder , Clo Mahalingam & di. 

Co ., Pollachi , 
-1959 A , Amgaveni Ammal, Clo Balasubramani. ” 

am Foundry , Coimbatore . 
1960 A . Somasundaram Reddiar, Sundaram 

Transport, Tirurhirapalli . 
1961 A . Safia Bani , 35 , Broadway ,Madras- I . 
1962 A , Shafecq Ahmed , 35 , Broadway , Madras 2 , 
1963 A . Vellingiri, C /o A . B . T . (P ) Ltd ., Polla 

chi . • • • • • • 
1964 Assam Md. Rowther, Coimbatore , 
1965 B . N . Namadeya Chetty , 17 / E - 2 , Nungam 

bakkam High Road , Madras- 34 
1966 B . Ananthaswamy, 125, Lloyds Road , 

Madras - 6 
1967 B . Muniappa Gounder, c /o B , L . S . (P ) 

Ltd . , Coimbatore 
1968 C . R . Narayana Rao , 6 -G , Karpagambal » 

Nagar, Madras - 4 . . . . » 


3 ,95,255 
1,94 ,956 
1,28,525 
1,11,570 
1,39,340 
1 ,05,420 
1,32,250 


Do. 


Do, 


Do 


1962 - 63 

Do. 


1, 17 ,740 
1 ,97, 880 


Do . 


4 ,76,680 


Do. 
1964-65 


4 , 47, 340 
1,07,610 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 94 , 956 


1 , 94 ,070 


1965 -66 


1,62,140 


1966 -67 


1 , 15,235 


* 1969 D . Jayavardhanvel, Lakshmi Mills Ltd ., 

Coimbatore 
1970 E , K , M , Ahmed Abdul Kader Ibrahim 

Sahab , Erode . 
1971 E . K . M . Ilajec Almed Ibrahim Saheb . 

Partner, Mís E . K . Hajee Mohd . Mcera 

Sahib & Sons , Erode 
. 1972 G . K . Devarajulu Naidu, c /o Lakshmi " 

Mills Ltd ., Colmbatore . . . » 


Do . 


1 , 14 ,710 


1.961 -62 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


2 ,52 ,070 
2 ,09 ,585 
2 , 70 ,848 


1966 - 67 


1,46,718 


1961 -62 


1966 - 67 


1673 Smt. G . Kannammal, C / o LakshmiMills 

Co. Ltd . , Coimbatore 
1974 Late G . Rudrappan , L / R G , Venkataraman . 

C /O Palani Andayar Mills Ltd ., Udumal 
pet 

HUP 
1975 G . Venkataswami Naidu C /o Lakshmi 
mills Ltd , Coimbatore 

Indi. 
1976 Mrs , Gnanambal, L / R of A . K . Krishna 
Iyer , Coimbatore , . , 

.. » 
1977 J . W . Shield , 37, Mount Road , Madras - 6 
1978 K . R . Purushotham , 25, Edward Elliots 

Road , Madras - 4 . 
* 1979 K . Lakshminarayanan , Prop. L . M . S . 

Bus Service , Gandhipurani , Coimbatore 
1980 K , Nageswaran , 1 / 11- A , Mount Road , 

Madras 2 
1981 K . Partha - arathi, Dhali Rd ., Udumalpet HUF 
1982 K . Sama Naidu , Cotton Merchant, Punjai . 
Pulia mpatti . 

, Indi. 
1983 K . Srivasan , Kasturi Mills Ltd ., Avanay 

hi Ro , Coimbatore 
1984 K . Sundaram , C /o Lakshmi Mills Ltd ., 
· Coimbatore . . . . . . . . . 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 

Do . 


1, 19 ,412 
1,03, 130 
1, 21, 664 
1,04,434 
1, 02 , 140 
1, 00 , 032 
1 , 36 ,380 
1, 10 ,628 


1964 -65 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


1965-66 


· 1966 - 67 
1961- 62 


1, 23 , 494 
1, 15,711 
3,05,390 


Sec . ( 17)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /MYAISTHÅ 18. 1890 


2831 


1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


1,74,074 
1 ,20 , 270 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 


1 ,62,656 
1 ,79, 180 


1962 - 63 

Do. 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 

Do. 


1 , 17 ,830 
1,90 ,919 
1,17 ,660 


Indl. 


1, 18 ,550 
1 , 18 ,550 
1, 18 ,540 


Do. 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


5 ,43, 380 
1, 36 , 050 


1960 -61 


3 ,45,325 


1966 - 67 

Do, 


1, 00 ,788 


1,07,547 


Do. 


1 ,31,980 


1985 Kumararajah M . A . M . Muthiah Chettiar, 

Chettinad House, Madras - 28 , . Indl. 
1986 Kumara RaniMeenakshi Achi, Chettinad 

Housc , Madrt8 -28 
1987 M . A . Razack ,Murthy Chettiar St., Kum 

bakonam 
1988 M . K . Krishna Chettiar, Jail Rd ., Coim 

batore , 
1989 M . P. Damodaran, 3/25 , Edward Elliots 

Road , Modras - 4 
1990 M . S. Padmanabhan , 35, Eldams Rd., 
Madras - 18 . 


. 

HUF 



D 
1991 M . S . Pattabiraman . 
1992 M . Seshadri Iyengar Do , 
1993 M . Varadarajulu Naidu , 2 / 20 , Salai Street, 

Choolai, Madras - 7 . 
1994 Smt. Mukhtar Begum , 35, Broadway, 

Madras - I . 
1995 N . T . S. Arumugam Pillai, Tirupathur, 

Ramnad Distt. . 
1996 N . V . Vaidyanathan , Timber & Tileg 

Merchant, Tiruchirapalli , 
1997 N . Armachalam Chettiar , Koppanapatti , 
1998 N .Mohamed Zackariah , 35, Broadway, 

Madras - I 
1999 N . Vinothan , c /o soundara raja Mills 

Ltd ., Dindigul , . . . 
2 . ) O . R Y M . SP .SV. M . Myyappa Chettiar , 

Deyakottai. 
2001 P . S . Gyakrishnan , 74 - A , Kothawal 

ChavadiS :. ,Midras - 15 . 
2002 P . V . Radhakrishnan , Kamala Nilayam , 

Poslamedy , Coimbatore. . 
2003 R . B .Mani, Secretary , KadriMills ( Coim 

batore ) Lt . , Ondiputhur, Coimbatore 
2014 R . K . KildawimiChettiar, C /o Vasantha 

Mills Ltd ., Coimbatore . . , . » 
2003 R . R . Sharma, 1, Southern Avenuo , 

Madr:13 - 18 . 
2006 R . Raghunathan , Clo P .A . Raju Chettiar & 

Brgy ., B . B . St. Coimbatore . 
2297 R . Subba Rao ,Mis .Ramco Swadeshis , 

O l ara St. , Coimbatore . . . 
203 R . VenkatawamiNiidu , C / Radhakrishna 

Mill: L + 1. , Peolaendy , Coimbatore . . 
2009 R . Vikitesalu , C / o Subbiah Foundry , 

Coimbatore . . 
2010 R . Vijayalakshmi, A . T . T . Colony , Coim 

batore , 
2011 Rajah SirMA, Muthiah Chettiar , Chetti 

aad Hose , Macas - 28 . . . . " 
2012 Rajah of Bobbili, 21, Greems Rd ., 

Mairas - 6 . 


1964-65 
1960 -61 


1,00 , 367 
1, 10 ,273 


1966 - 67 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1,67, 140 
1, 18 , 200 


1 ,81,030 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 , 06 ,750 
1 , 26 , 470 


1966 -67 


3,31,750 
1,07,065 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 12 , 538 


1965 -66 


1 , 05 ,580 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 

Do . 


1 , 19 , 245 
2 , 00 ,050 
1 ,01, 020 


1963 - 64 
1961-65 


1, 22 , 202 
1, 10 ,357 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1964-65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1,69, 490 
1 , 57 ,090 
1 ,21, 990 
1 , 36 , 740 
1, 0 , 0930 
1 , 26 , 420 


2013 S . M .N r 101, Trichay . 
2017 S . 51 / 10711dra 1, Clo Cunataka Kuitting 

C ) ,, Arr196Rai, Tirceput. . . 


2 ,80 ,853 


2832 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / J YAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART IT 


1 . 


1962 - 63 


1 ,43,460 


2015 S . R . Y . Ramakrishna Prasad , 8 , First 

Crescent Park Road , Gandhinagar , 
Madras - 20 . 

· Indl. 
2016 S .Kondaswami Naidu , Clo Subbiah 

Foundry , Coimbatore . . . . » 
2017 S. Ramakrishnan, C/o Do. . 
2018 S . Sanjeevi Chottier, 189 ,Kumaran Road , 

Tirupur. 
2019 Smt.SigappiAchi , Chettinad Housc, " 

Madras - 28 . 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 36, 560 
2 , 12 , 350 
1, 19 , 923 
2 , 00 , 060 


1962 -63 


3 , 18 ,970 


1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


1 ,64 ,290 
1, 36 ,030 
2 , 12 ,530 
1 , 97 , 050 


22 


1961 -62 
1966 -67 

Do. 


1 , 20 , 770 
1 , 33 ,419 
1 , 17, 070 
1 ,09 , 160 


Do. 


2020 S . S vaminatha Pillai, C /o N . C . Arya Snuff 

& C ., Tennur, Tiruchirapalli ; . 
2021 S . Srinivasan , ESSO , Agent , Erode. 
2022 Mrs . Santokbon V , Madhwani, Coonoor. 

HUR 
2023 Sha tilal Kapoorchand , C /OT, V . Bros. , 1 

R . G . Şt ., Coimbatore , 
2024 T . A . Kuppuswamy Chettiar , Prop . , M / 8 . 

T . A , Kuppuswamy Chettiar & Sons, 
Bhavani. . 

Indl. 
2025 T . Ş . N .S . P . Thennappa Chettiar, Karaikudi. 
2026 T . S . Santhanam , 37 , Mount Road ,Madros 2 . W 


1962 - 63 
1961-62 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 00 , 880 
5 , 11 ,893 
1, 57 ,986 
1, 66 , 760 


1963-64 
1966 -57 


2027 T. V . Vegrapp : Chetciar,DhellMercbant, 

Tiruchirapalli. 
2028 T . AbdulWabid , 19, Vapory High Road , 

Madras - 7 , 
2029 T. Manickam Chetty,65,Appu Müdali 

Street ,Mylaporc , Modras - 4 . 
2030 V . L . Balakrishna Naidu , C /o Soundaram 

Mills , Sylur . 
2031 V . L . Dutt, 38,Mount Road ,Madras-6. 
2032 V . M . Rao , 

Do. 


" 


1, 06 , 550 
1, 83, 810 
6 , 73 ,810 


- 


1962 -63 


ndaram 


Do . 


HUR . 
Indl. 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1866 -67 


2 ,61, 270 
1, 06 , 924 
1 , 18 ,833 
1 , 27 ,610 


1964 -65 


1,06,520 


1957 - 58 
1962 -63 


1, 53 , 170 
1,91,690 


2033 V . M . C . Srinivasan , Clo V . M . Porlaswamy 

Chetty & Co., Court Road , Tirupur. , 
2034 Late V . BaluswamiNaidu, By Padiganabhan 

& Others , R . G . St. , Coimbatore , 
2035 V . Raju Naidu , Bashyagaralu Roud , R . S . 

Puram , Coimbatoro . . 
2036 V . RangaswamiNaidu , KadriMills Ltd ., 

Oddarpglayar . 
3537 V . Ratnar , Exocutor to the Batatc of late 

A . V . Visvagatha Sestri , 40 , Polathopa , 

Madras- 4 . 
2018 v . Vidyasagar Clo , Palagi Andavar Mills 

Ltd ., Udumalpet. . . . . 


Do . 


2 , 03 , 340 


1966 -67 


3 , 52 ,020 


Da . 


1 , 48, 780 


1967 -63 


1, 13, 083 
1 , 16 , 342 


Do. 


Madras Coneral 
2039 A . D . Jagatheeso Pandia Nadar , Nagapatti 

Даш 
2040 A .D .Jawaharlal Pandia Nadar ,Nagapattia 

1401 
2041 A. D . Jayavoarapandia Nadar, Nagappetti- ” 

Dam 
2042 A . D . Jayaramachandra Papdia Nadar, 
Nagapattinary 

: . .. 

. 
2013 A . K . Kadar Kurty , Tolliaharry 


Do. 


1, 28 ,055 


Do. 


1 , 13 ,086 
1 ,91, 328 


DO . 


Src. 8 (li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2833 


3 


2014 A . V . Mayyapp4 , A . V . N . Studios,Madrag . 

26 . 
2045 Shat. Anandam Viswanathan , 11- C , NC 

Nichols Road , Madrad - IQ . . . . 


Indl. 


2 ,43, 784 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 


» 


3 ,05 , 579 
3,95,998 


2746 A .Vinkataramana Satty, M /s. Krishna Flour 

Mills , Old Taraguper, Bangalore . 


1964 - 65 
1965 -66 


1, 72 , 191 
1,85, 533 


1, 13, 171 


1962- 63 

Do. 


3 ,09 , 071 


Da. 


1 ,01,921 


1 , 54 ,022 


1946-47 
1962 -63 


1,95, 128 


Do . 


1,48 ,018 


2047 B . N . KondaRaddy , 16 , Vijayaraghavachari 

Road Madra- 17. 
2048 Smt. B . Saroja Devi, 26 , Socand Main 

Road , Madr49 - 20 . 
2049 Srat . BaglayalakshmiKrishnan , Power of 

Arcoroay holder of G . Krishnan , Calm 

batora . . . . . . . 
zago Lata C . R . Ramachandran , 19 , Nainiappa 

Mudali St. ,Madras- 28 . 
2051 C . V . Sridbar, C /o Chitralaya , 19 , North 

Boeg Road , Madras - 17 . 
2052 C . Muni Reddy, 36 -37. Second Line " 

Bosch , Madras - I . 
2053 C . Venkata Reddy , 36 & 37, Second Lino 

Beach , Madras - I . . . . 
2054 G . D . Naidu , Coimbatore . . 
2055 G .R . Vankatesalu Coimbatore . : : HỦF. 
2056 J . Bbawarilal, Prop : Nimichqod Electrical 

Stores Chickpat , Bangaloro . 
2057 J. Ramakrishnaigh,36 -37 , Second Lino 
Baach ,Madras - 1 . 

. . Ind ). 
2058 J. K . K . Apgappa Chattiar , Komarapalayam 
2059 J . K . K . Nataraja , Komarapalayam . 
2065 J . K . K . Sundararajan Komarapalayam . . HUP. 
2061 J . M . Thambyswamy, 1 & 2 , Poonamalleo 

Higb Road , Madras . . . 
2062 K . A . Thaggavely , 17 , Rająbachar Street, 

Nadr49- 17 . . . . . . » 


Do. 


Do. 


6 , 06 , 005 
2 , 78 , 126 
1 , 59 ,716 


Da. 


1967 -63 


1,47,313 


Do. 
Do . 
Do , 
Da. 


2 ,01,513 
9 ,85 , 949 
8 , 28 , 104 
8 ,06 ,259 


Indi. 


1946 -47 


1,65, 138 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1 ,88, 348 
1 ,07, 323 


· 


48 . 


1962- 63 


1, 21,652 
1 ,07, 287 


Do . 


HUP . 


Do . 
Do. 


2063 K . NanjappaChattiar ,Mint Street ,Mad 

HUP. 
2064 Lata K . Parthasarathy Chatty, 103,Audia 

ppa Naicken St., Madras . . 
2065 K . Rajagopal Chettiar , No. 498 , Mint St. * 

Madr98- 1 . 
2066 K .Vonkatappa Chetty, 103, Audiappa 

Naickan St , Madras . . . . Indl. 
2067 RuiSahib Krishnalolsahar, Coimbatore . . 
2068 M . A . Chidambaram Chettiar (HUF ),MadrasHÚP . 
2069 M . P . Moithatath , Shoranur . . , Indl. 
2075 M . S . Rargiab , 22 , Cubbon Road, Bangalore . » 
2071 M . Sivasubramaniam Chattiar, 28 , Balaji 

Nagar , Madras - 14 . , . . . HUF . 
2072 N . Poriannan ,No. 3, Besant Road ,Madras 

Indi. 
2073 NandalalKapur, No. 12 ,Brigada Road ; * * 

Bangaloro . 
2374 Narayansingh Ghanshyamsingh , 23. Jaya " 

pora Nagar,Madras-6 . 
2075 O . Kammukutty Haji ,Calicut. . 
2076 P . 3 . SarangapaniMudaliar , M /s . Storling 

Construction & Tra ling Co., Bangalore, 


Da. 
1965-66 
1962 -63 
1961-62 


1 ,27, 859 
1,00 , 181 
4 ,37 ,649 
1, 29 ,009 
3 , 75 , 741 
12 , 11, 209 


1997- 58 


1 , 10 ,441 


14 : 


$ , 23, 590 


2 ,03, 331 


1962 -63 
1954- 55 
1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 


4 , 52 ,023 


2 ,72 , 115 


7 ,69 ,870 


2834 


THE GAZETTĘ OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART II 


3 


1962 -63 


1 , 36 ,314 


Do. 


1 ,32,777 


DO 


1,29,318 


2074 P . S . Hariharan , Partner, M /s . Sterling Indi. 

Construction & Trading Co. , Bangalore 
2078 P . S . Ranganathan , Partner , M /s. Sterling 

Construction & Trading Co., Banga 

lore 
2079 P.S . Venkatachalam , M /s. Sterling Cóns 

truction Co ., Bangalore . 
2080 P .V .S , Mani, 36 - 37, Second Line Beach , 

Madras - I 
2081 P .Natarajan ,498 ,Mint Street, Madras 
2082 Preetamsingh ,79 , Sembudoss St.,Madras- 1 ) 
2083 R . Ganesan , Nungambakkam High Road , 

Madras- 34 
2094 R . Sundaram Iyer , 28 , Krishna Rajendra 

Road , Basavangudi, Bangalore - 4 . , HUF 
2085 R . G . Peirce , Cochin . . . . Indl . 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


5 , 02 , 572 
1 , 35 ,831 
2 ,08 ,561 


Do . 


3 ,48 , 284 


1958 - 59 
1956 - 57 
1957 -58 
1959 -60 
1962 -63 


3 , 19 ,395 
1 ,03, 518 
1 , 24 , 304 
1,01,348 
1 ,41, 772 


2030 


Road , Madrash 


1961-62 


Chettiar, Coimba 


1 ,71,090 


tore 


4 , 18 , 086 


I , 11,045 


2086 Late R . M . Thambuswamy, 1 & 2 , P .H , 
2087 S.A .K . Chinnathambi Chettiar, Coimba. 

HUF 
2088 S.K. Sundararamier, 464 , Mint si , nu 
Madras - I 

Indl. 
2089 S.N.N .Sankaralınga Iyer Cenatoph Road. - 

Madra8 - 18 . . . . , HUF 
2090 

Indi. 
2098 S. S. Rajendran ,3/4 , EldmgRoad ,Madras 

18 . 
2032 S. Heorachand, 217 GovindappaNaicken ” 

St.Madras- I . . 
2093 s . Natara), No. 516 , Mysore Road , 

Bangalore 
2094 Mrs. Savithri Sam , Coimbatore : 
2095 S . Sivaramakrishna Iyer , Trivandrum , 
2096 T . S . Narayanaswamy, c /o India Cements , 

Madras 


wwwdoims Road,Madras 


1962-63 
1963 - 64 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1946 - 47 
1962-63 

Do. 
Do. 


1 ,45 ,077 
1 ,01,626 
4 ,92 ,011 


1 , 18 ,485 
1 ,48 , 892 


Do 
. 


9 ,33,320 
2 ,63 ,930 
3 , 10 , 580 


Do . 


1952 - 53 
1963-64 


1 ,47 , 304 
1 , 12 ,132 


4 ,45,788 


2097 V . Mutukumarappa Reddiar , 59 , Har 

rington Road , Madras -31 
2093 v . Subramaniam , II , McNichols Road , 

Indl. 
2999 Kumari Vyjayanthimala , 3 Southern 
Avenue, Alwarpet,Madras . 

- do 


Madras -1011am , II, McNichols Rosi H . U .F , 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1964 -65 


1930 , 117 


1,61,894 


MYSORE 


1966 -67 


1 ,37, 100 


Do. 


Do. 


1 ,34 ,670 
1 , 02 , 200 


2 , 14 , 003 


2100 Abdul Sittar Sait Haji,Haji Service Station , 

St. Marks Road , Bangalore . 
2101 B . A . Rao , Narasimharaja Road , Bangalore 
2102 B .S ,Kalghatagi, Belgaum . 
2103 B . Ganapathy Pai, Pr. Bharath Beedi 

Works, Mangalore , 
2104 B .Madhav Shenoy Pr. M /s M .G .B . ” 

Works, Mysore 
2105 B . Madhava Pai, Pr .Bharat Becdi Works , ” 

Mangalore 
2106 B . Manjunatha Pai, Pr, Bharat Beedi 

Works, Mangalore 
2107 B , Raghurama Prabhu , M /s Mangalore 

Ganesh BeediWorks , Mysore . . » 


1965 -66 
1966-67 
1965- 66 

Do. 


7 ,68, 112 

2 ,09,667 
3, 23,921 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


2 ,50 ,643 
5 ,21, 533 


Buo, 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JAYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2835 


1966 -67 


4 , 87 ,318 


- do 
-do 


1 ,09 ,670 
1 , 25 , 584 


1 ,01, 120 


1964 - 65 
1965-66 

- do 
do 


1 ,60 , 112 
1 , 05 , 802 
1,17,917 


1966 -67 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1965 - 66 


3 ,67, 220 
1,70 , 197 
1, 17,616 
1 , 85 , 160 


2108 Dr. C . A . Phalanikar , C /o Mysore Kirloskar 
Ltd ., Harihar 

Indi. 
2109 C . V . Chandrasekhar, Partner in M /s 

Precision Engineers, Infantary Road , 

Bangalore 
2110 D . C . Shah , Nlpani . . . . H e 
2111 D . Chickarasappa , M /s . Arasappa & Bros. 

Oosmankhan Road , Bangalore- 2 . Indl. 
ZI12 G . M . Halappa , C /OM /s . G .Mahadevappa 

& Bros . , Davanagere , . 
2113 G . M , Shambhulingappa , Davanagere 
2114 G . M , Shatanappa , Davanagere 
2115 G .N . Gurjar , Clo M /s, Kriloskar Electric 

Co . Ltd . Rajajinagar , Bangalore . 
2116 G . Siddalingappa, Davanagere , 

HUF 
2117 G .Mdhay Pai, Bunder, Mangalore . Indl. 
2118 G . Mahadevappa , Davanagere 

HUF 
2119 Ganapatrai Agarwal C / O M / s. Jairamdas 

& Sons , S . J. Park Road , Bangalore , Indl. 
2120 H . H . Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Baba 

dur, Maharaja ofMysore , . HUF 
2121 JayanthilalGokaldas , Pr. M /s . Jayanthil al 
Bros . Mangalore 

Indl. 
2122 K .G . Subarama Sethy, Old Tharagupet, 

Bangalore 
2123 K .G .V . Swamy, Hill View , Arsikere : 
2124 Smt. K . H . Salve, P / r, in M /8 . H . Slave 

Kadam & Co. Nipani . . . » 
2125 K . N , Anjanappa, Excise Contractor , K . R . 

Road , Mysoro . 
2126 K . N . Guruswamy, Subbarama Shetty 
Road , Basavanagudi, Bangalore 

Indi, 
2127 K . Anantha Seshagiri Shenoy , Udipi . » 
2128 K . Ganga Setty , Old Tharagpet, Banga 
2129 Kishanlal Phoolchand , L /R of late J. 

Kishanlal C /o Kishanlal Phoolchand , 
D . S . Lanc, Bangalore . . . » 


1962 -63 
1964- 65 
1966 -67 


1,05,066 
3 ,22, 680 
1, 21,642 


- do 
- do 


1 ,51,640 
1 , 20 , 240 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,01 , 533 
1 ,12 ,557 


-do 


1, 05 ,862 


1958 - 59 
1959 - 60 
1966 -67 

- do 


1 , 17 ,660 
3 , 25 ,679 
1 , 18 , 130 


lore - 2 


1, 52,400 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 , 07 ,442 
1, 24 ,990 


-do 


-do 


1,14,423 
1, 44 ,874 
1,15,817 


1965 - 66 


2130 Mrs , Lakshmi Parameswaran , W / o late 

K .G . Parameswaran , Amco Batteries 

Ltd . , Bangalore 
2131 M . C . Neelakanta Rao , Gazipuram Gutta 

halli, Bangalore 
2132 M .G . Anantha Pai,Srinivasa Nivas, Boloor 
Mangaloro 

HUF 
2133 M . Ananda Rao , Pr. M /s. M .G .B .Works, 

Mysore , , , 
2134 M . Achutha Bhat, Bunder , Mangalore , 
2135 M . Damodar Pai, Pr, M /s , Bharath Beedi 

Works, Mangalore 
2136 M . Govinda Rao , Pr. M /s. M .G . B .Works , 

Mysore . 
2137 Smt. M . Hemalatha , Pr. M /s. - 
2138 M . Janardhana Rao , - do 
2139 Smt. M . Pushpalatha , - do 


. 


. 


. 


. Indi. 


- do 
1966 - 67 

- do 


1 , 23 ,223 
2 , 60 ,217 
1 , 18 ,206 


2 , 10 , 139 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 

- do 

-do 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1965- 66 


2 , 44 , 984 
5 , 90 ,285 
7 , 37, 508 
2 , 50 , 125 
5 ,28,730 
1 36 ,250 


2140 M . RajagopalPai, Car Street, Mangalore 
2141 M . Suresh Rao , Pr . M /s. M .G . B . Works , 
2142 M . Vinod Rao , -do- . . . » 
2143 Mary Joyce O leary , 40 , Residency Road, 

Bangalore , , , , , » 


1966- 67 

- do 


2 , 92 , 113 


3, 15 ,734 


- do 


1,39, 350 


2836 


THE GAZET I E OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTIIA 18. 1890 


(Part II 


1,04,376 


2144 Moola Ramesh , Prop . M / s , Moola Rangeppa 

& Sons, St. John s Road , Bangalore Indl. 
2145 N . G . Ayyangar, C /o M /s. M . E . T ., Banga 

lore , 
2146 N .. W Gurjar, Harihar . 
2147 N . Krishnan , C /o International Instru - * 

ments ( P ) Ltd ., Bangalore 
2148 P . H . Krishnara ), L / R of late Hanumanthaiah , 

II , St. Marks Road , Bangalore - I . HUF . 
2149 P . $ . Kalghatagi, Ravivar Peth , Belgaum . 
2150 Smt. Parvathamma S . M . Co M /s . Venu 

gopala Flour Mills , Old Tharagupet , 
Bangalore 


1966 -67 
- do 

do 
- do 


1 ,64,245 
5 , 11, 204 


1 ,44 , 329 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,08, 050 
1 ,01,460 


, Indl. 


1965- 66 


1 , 17, 336 


1966 -67 

- do 
- do 
- do 


1 , 80 ,922 
1 ,04 , 563 
2 , 70 , 991 
1 ,35,932 


- do 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 

-do 


1 , 18 ,618 
1 , 16 , 704 
2 , 08 , 786 
1 ,09,807 


2151 R . L . Kirloskar, M /s . Kirloskar Elec. 

Factory, Malleswarm , Bangalore . 
2152 Smt. R . S . Janabai, Dayanagere , 
2053 Smt. R . Gopammy, Davanagere 
2154 Ramakrishna Mallya, Bunder ,Mangalore 
2155 S . M . Balarkishna, C / O M /s . Venugopala 

FlourMills , Old Tharagupet, Bangalore 
2156 S . M . Satyanarayna, C /o M / 8. -do - 
2157 S . S . Jayanne, Davanagere , . 

>> 
2158 S . S . Kirloskar , Harihar 
2159 S . V . Rangaswamy, C / M /s , S . V . Ranga 

swamy & Co . ( P ) Ltd ., New Kalasipalyam 

Extn ., Bangalore - 2 . 
2160 $ . Shivappa , Davangere 
2161 Srikantadatta, H .H . Yuvaraja , N . Wadi 

yar Trust Palace ,Mysore , , , 
2162 T .P . Daver , Camp: Belgaum . . 
2163 T . Krishna Rao, 229, Upper Palace Or 

chards, Bangalore 
2164 U . Pundalika Mallya, Bunder , Mangalore , 
2165 U . Purushotham Mallya , Bunder Mangalore , 
2166 U . Ramesha Mallya, Bunder , Mangalore » 
2167 V . H . Salvc, P /r . in Salve Kadam & Co. , 
Nipani . . 

. . . . HUF 


- do 


-do 


1, 36 ,070 
2 ,052495 


-do 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


2 ,00 , 170 
1,06 ,097 
1, 07 ,323 


رد 


-do 
- do 
-do 
- do 


1 ,08 , 156 
1, 35 ,277 
1, 38 ,072 
1 ,41, 262 


-do 


1 ,03,827 


-do 


1 , 14 ,796 


- do 


1 ,00 , 111 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 

-do 


1 ,04,628 
1 , 44 , 280 
1, 00 , 780 


2168 V . M . Bohjawani , Yeswantpur , Bangalore Indl. 
2169 V . M . Shunder , C / o Standard Tile Co. , 

Yelahanka 
2170 V . R . Purshotham , Southam & Co . St, 

Mark Road , Bangalore . . . » 
2171 V . S . Kalghatagi, Belgaum . 

HUF 
2172 V . T . Padmanabhan , High Grounds , 

Bangalore 
2173 V. Narasimha Rao, Mcenakshi Koll St ., ” 

Bangalore 
2174 VanamalidasGokuldas, P /r. M /s. Jayanthilal 

Bros., Bangalort 

Y . R . More , Belgaum 
2176 Y , Muniswamappa, Contractor 16th 

cross, Malloswaram , Bangalore , 


1, 12 ,834 


- do 
-do 


1 ,01, 907 


Indi, 


- do 
-do 


1 , 13 ,295 
1 , 12 ,250 


1962-63 


1,83 ,671 


HUF 


1962 - 63 


1 , 14 ,959 


NAGPUR TRAINING 
2179 Smt. Fulibai Agarwal, Nagpur 
2178 Gopaldas slo Mathuradas, Sarda , Reshm 
Oli, Itwari, Nagpur . 

Indi. 
2179 M /s. Saglal Mohanlal Jaiswal, Nagpur HUF 
2180 Kişan Balaji Shripad P /O M /s. M . P . Silk 

Rayon Twisting Indus ., Nagpur , >> 


- do 


-do 


1 , 39 ,475 
2 , 08 ,013 


-do 


2 ,83. 350 


£d. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2837 


HUF 


1962 -63 
I964 -65 


1 , 13 ,501 
1 , 11 , 375 


Indl. 


1962-63 


1 ,22, 166 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 54 ,848 
1 ,84, 466 


1965 -66 


HUF 
Indl . 


1,30 ,863 


2181 Smt, Parbatibai w o Danlal Sao , M /s . M .P , 

Silk Rayon Twisting Indus., Nagpur . 
2182 Sohanlal Agarwal, Nagpur . 
2183 M /s. Shivji Jaiwant , Kirana Oil, Nagpur 

POONA 
2184 Abdu Samad Haji Lal Mohd, Bhiwan 

di , 
2185 Arjun Bala Madhavi, Kosholi Tai, 

Bhiwandi 
2186 B . G . Doshi, Koregaon 
2,187 B . K . Sanghavi , 110 , Shivajinagar , 

Poona 
2188 B . L . Mandko , 1205 /A Shirole Road , 

Poona . . . . . 
2189 B . V . Sabnani, 25, Lullanagar, 

Poona 
2190 Bansilal Ramdayal, Chopda : : 
2191 Smt. Bhagwantibai Sabnani, 25 , 

Lullanagar , Poona 
2192 Birdichand Asaram , Akola . 
2193 C . A . Patwardhan (H . H .) Rajasaheb of 

Sangli (Dead ), Sangli 
2194 C . R . Bansi, Dharangaon , Hingan 

ghat 
2195 Smt. Chanchalabai Sanghavi, 110 , 

Shivajinagar , Poona 
2196 Chandanmal Sagarmal, Jalgaon . 
2197 Crunilal Rupchand , Saswad , District 

Poona 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,01. 764 
1 , 43 , 162 


1962-63 
1962 - 63 


3 , 37 , ogo 


HUF 
Indl. 


2 ,06 , 950 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 


2 , 25,000 
1 , 17 ,848 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1,52,938 

1,01,675 
( 1, 23 ,698 
11,61,211 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


. 


. 


. 


Indl. 


2198 D . G . Chhadda , Sangli 
2199 D . S . Malu , Madhavnagar , 
2200 D . H . Mardha, Kolhapur . 
2201 D . Dinnenborga, Koyananagar 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1963 -63 
1062 -63 
1962 :63 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 , 18 , 663 
1 ,91,996 
1,01, 675 
1, 06 ,917 
1 ,05 ,932 
1, 32 , 807 
1 , 66 ,038 
2 ,45, 980 
1 ,06 ,657 


. 


hi Shrirampur ; 


HUF 


1962 -63 
1963-63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 15 , 282 
1 ,03, 340 
1 ,27, 144 
1 ,07, 360 
4 , 29 ,452 
1, 31,030 
1 , 05 ,884 
1, 32, 767 


Indl. 
HUF 
Indl. 


vaha 


HUF 


2202 Dookishan Bastiram , Sinnar , 
2203 F . B . Irani, c / o M /s . Dilnawaz Eng. 

Works, Yervada 
2204 F . K . Trani, 2422, Est. St., Poona 
2205 GR. Mokashi, Shrirampur , 
2206 Girdhardas Mehta , Hinganghat 
2297 Goverdhandas N . Daga, Hinganghat 
2203 Gilam Ghouse Ziuddin Khatib , Nasik 
2299 Gwaldas Mehta , Hinganghet 
2210 H . D , Hardie , Thana . 
2211 H . H . Maharaja of Kolhapur, Ko 

pur 
2212 H . M . Mohito (Maj. Gen .) Hadapsar, 

Poona 
2213 Haji Gaffar , Haji Dada , Chanda : 
2214 Hariram Murlidhar Goenka , Akola 
2215 Hayan Malang Patel, 1704 , Kodari 

Road, Poona , , 
2216 Jam 1a las N . Daga , Hingangliat 
2219 Jawharlal C . Munot, Amravati 
2218 Jivraj Joharmal 454 , Centre Sr., 

Poona 
2219 Dr. K . B . Grant , 40, Sasson Road , 

Poona . . . . . 


1966 - 67 


1, 09, 448 


Ind . 


HUÉ 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 23 ,240 
1 ,49, 980 
4 . 30 ,784 


Indi. 
HUF 


1963 - 64 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1,27, 101 
i 4 ,32 , 452 
5 , 48 ,230 


. . 


. 


Indi, 


1962 -63 


1, 00 , 000 


» 


1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


( 1, 26 , 517 

1, 30 , 517 
( 1,39, 439 


2838 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART 11 – 


1 ,05, 724 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1 , 20 , 972 


6 ,20 ,891 


1 ,71,780 
1 ,08 , 420 
2 ,63 , 292 
3 , 15 , 044 


Hirona 


HUF 


Kumar HD 


2220 Kum . Kalakumari D . Daga, Hin 
gadghat 

Indl. 
2221 Kanayalal Narayandas, Auranga 

bed 
2222 Kanwar Rajnath Malhotra , (Rai Bahadur) 

Ambernath 
2223 Kishor Kumar H . Daga , Hingan 

ghat 
2224 Kisanlal Bastiram , Sinnar : : : 
2225 Kishanlal Gulabchand, Shirpus 
2226 Kiganlal Nathma , Akola 
2227 Krishna Kumar H . Daga, Hingan 
ghat 

Indi. 
2228 Kum . Kumudkumari, D . Daga , 

Hinganghat 
2229 Kuoumkumari D . Daga , Hingadghat 
2230 Mrs, Lakshmi Parancswaran wo late K . 

G . Parameswaran Amoo Batteries Bangalore 
2231 M . B . Dange , Wada Distt ., Thana . 
2332 M . C . Lohiya, 1105, Raviwar Path , 
Poona 

HUF 
2233 M . H . Khatib , Nasik . 

Indi. 
2234 M . K . Joshi, Kirloskarwadi 
2235 M . P . Shirgaonkar , Kolhapur 
2236 M . R . Bankar L . H . R . C . 
Kolhapur , 

. 
2237 M . S . Rao , Kirkon 
2238 M . S . Vartak , Kirkoo , Poona 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1962 - 63 


1, 71 ,780 


1 , 05 , 724 
1, 05 , 724 


1966 -67 
1958 - 59 


1 , 149423 
1,843787 


1962 - 63 
1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


2 , 47 , 500 
1 , 16 ,911 
4 ,92 , 044 
1,07, 234 


oheph C. Bankar, 


» 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1963 - 64 


3 , 78 ,754 
1, 33 , 947 
1, 56 ,745 
1 , 28 ,514 
1 ,65,836 


2299 M . T . Ranglani, Nana Poth , Poona 
2240 Mayurdhawaj Singli of Dharangdhara 

H . H . Maharaja ) Gokhale Road , 
Poona 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 , 86 , 109 
1 , 18 , 240 
1 ,66 , 963 
1,61, 868 


1962-63 


1, 05 , 509 


1962 -63 
1960 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 14 , 449 
1,09, 865 
1 , 54 ,962 
1,61,594 


HÜF 


Poona 


1969 -66 

1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1, 27 , 674 
3 , 78 ,829 
3 , 08 , 766 


> 


1962 -63 


3,85, 990 


2241 Mohanlal Sagarmal, Jalgaon 

HUF 
2242 Mohd . Abbas Abdul Kadir, 
Bhiwandi 

Indl. 
2243 Mohd . Mobin Abdul Gafoor , Master 

Prop . Vijay Textiles , Bhiwandi 
2244 Mohd . Hanif Mohd . Sujat Pwada 
2245 Narsingdas Shankarlal sinnar 
2246 Nathmal Sagarmal, Jalgaon . 
2247 P . K . Sanghavi, IIO , Shivajinagar, 
2248 p . L . Kirloskarl Hadapsar, Poona Indl. 
2249 P . M . Bodas, 20 , Vijayanagar 

Colony, Poona 
2250 Palhilajrai Sitaldas, Kalyan 

Camp 
2251 Pukhraj Segalmai, Jalgaon 

HŰT 
2252 R . G . Kamot, Malvan . 

. Ipdl. 
2253 R , K . Kamble Kolhapur 
2254 R . K . Sangbavi, IIO , Shivajinagar, 
Poona 

HUF 
2295 R . M . Ladha, Amravati 

Indl. 
2256 R . N . Shah , 246 , Raviwar Path , 

Poona 
2257 R . T . Karachiwalal Ahmednagar . Indl . 
2258 Smt. Radhadevi Daga Hinganghat 
2259 Ranchodds M . Mohta Hingangbat HUR 
2260 Ratanalal BanoiLal, Prop , Shri Banailal 
Bonechand , Manmad , 

Indi. 
2261 

A . Patil, Kolhapur . 
2262 K . Pantwalwalkor, Kolhapur 


1963 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 12 , 053 
1 , 60 , 665 
1 , 27 , 210 
1,07, 838 


1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1 , 34,828 
1,48,651 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


3, 71 ,645 
1 , 27 ,463 
4 , 30 ,840 
1,83, 475 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1962-63 


1 ,252430 
1 , 00 , 163 
Iyaş, 344 


Sec . 9 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2830 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1963-64 


1 , 37 , 701 
1, 57 , 238 
1, 29 , 286 
1 , 12 , 847 


1962 -63 
1962:63 


2263 S . K . Sanghavi, IIC Shivajinagar 
Poona 

. 

H . U . F , 
2264 S . L . Rathi. Ainravot 

. Indi. 
2265 S . S . Shirgaonkar, Kolhapur 
2266 S . V . Jathar 20 Vijayanagar 

Colony, Poona 
2267 Smt. Shrikawardevi H . Daga , 

Hinganghat 
2268 Smt. Shtikuwarbai J. Munot , 

Amravati 
2269 Shriram Dagdulal, Jalna . 

. . H . U . F . 
2270 Sunderlal N . Daga Hinganghat 
2271 Surjitsingh Jagatsingh Dhulia 
2272 V . G . Joshi, Hindvijay Talkies 

Deccan Gymkhana , Poona 
2273 V . R . Velankar , Sangli 
2274 V . V . Velankar, Sangli . . 
2275 V . W . Shahaney, 8 Connaught Road , 

Poona 
2276 Smt. Vimal J. Nahar , Amravati i 
2277 W . K . Shahaney , 8 Connaught Road , 

Poona 
2278 Y , P . Pawar , Kolhapur 
2279 Y . R . Atigre , Kolhapur . 
2280 Z . Y . Khatib , Nasik 


ada Hinganghat 


(3 ,19,300 
4 ,32 ,789 
1, 26 ,040 
3 ,41,810 
4 , 35 ,446 
3 ,41, 190 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


. 


Indi, 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1965 -66 


( 1 , 12 , 765 

1, 56 ,755 
1 , 52 , 248 
1 ,04 , 847 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 , 29 , 145 
1 , 24 ,345 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,29 , 145 
1 ,45,530 
1, 44 , 868 
3 ,65, 171 


PUNJAB 
2281 Ablash Chand Mehra c /o Dewan 
C . Mehra & Co ., Amritsar 

Indl. 
2282 Amin Chand Bhola Nath , Tanda Road , 
Jullundur 

. H . U . F . 
2283 Amir Chand clo Amirchand Motiram 
Majith Mandi , Amritsar 

Indi. 
2284 Anil Kumar Virmani, Partner Universal 

Screw Factory , Amritsar 
2285 Ashwani Kumar Sethi, 182 Rakh Bagh , 

Ludhiana . . . . 
2286 Avtar Singh clo M /s. Darbara Singh 

& Sons, Amritsar . . . 


1962-63 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 


1 ,25 ,644 
1,44 ,475 
1, 99 , 115 
1,21,375 
2 ,94,278 
1 , 06 ,688 


1960 -61 
1961 -62 


1962 -63 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


1 , 89 ,733 
1 ,64, 141 
1 , 99 , 199 


H . U . F . 


1, 27 ,998 


2287 Banwari Lal Loona, c /o Chaman Lal 

Loona & Co. , Muktsar 
2288 Bir Sein Anand clo Bir Sein Anand 

& Co ., Denis Gate , Jammu 
2289 Brijmohan c /o M / s . Hero Cycle Indus 

tries , Ludhiana 


1962 -63 
1962-63 


Indl. 


1 ,06 ,650 


1962 -63 
1963-64 
1964 -65 


1 ,60, 763 
1 ,22, 061 
1 , 19 ,451 


2290 


C . L . Gulati clo M /s , National Garrages 
Rehari , Jammu 


1954 -55 


1956 - 57 
1957- 58 


2 , 07 ,015 
6 , 17 ,077 
1, 34 ,566 


1964 -65 


1 , 08 , 006 


2291 Chanan Lal c /o M /s. Balmokand Chanan 
Lal Loha Mandi, Batala , 

. H . U . F . 
2292 D . V . Virmani, Prop . Universal Screw 

Factory, Amritsar 
2293 D . V . Virmani, partner Universal Screw 

Factory , Amritsar 


1959 - 60 
1962- 63 


2 ,98, 190 
2 ,61,609 


niversal Screw 


Indi. 


1963-64 
1965 -66 


1, 36 ,630 
1, 78 , 567 


2840 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18, 1800 


(PART II 


N 


2294 Dayanand clo M /s, Hero Cycle In 

dustries, Ludhiana 


Ind ). 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,61,070 
1 ,22, 801 
1 , 19 ,618 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1, 05 ,689 
1, 80,083 


HUF 


2295 Durga Dags Prop . Nathumal Durga 

Dass & Co. , Amritsar 
2296 Ganesh Dass Clo M / s. Kjøhen Chand 

& Co . Raj Tilak Road , Jammu 
2297 Gian Chand Taxali Prop. M /s , New 

Diamond Foundary G , T , Road , 

Batala 
2298 Goverdhan Dass P. A . Jullundur . 
2299 Gurbax Singh Bawa clo Bombay Motor 

Trading Co ., Kapurthala . . . 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


1,77,706 
1 ,40 ,589 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 , 11,832 
3 ,81, 205 


1966 - 67 


2 ,30 , 345 


1966 - 67 


1,01,402 


1 , 37 ,743 


HU 


2300 H . R . Modi clo Patiala Flour Mills 

(P ) Ltd ., Patiala 
2301 H . $ . Modi, c/o Modi Trading & 
Industrial Syndicatç (P ) 

Ltd ., 
Ferozepur . 
2302 Hansraj Mahajan c / o M /s . Hans Raj 

Mahajan & Sons , G . T . Road , 

Jullundur 
2303 Hans Raj & Sons, c /o M /s . Hans Raj 

Pahwa & Bros., Ludhiana 
2304 Hans Raj Jain c /o Rattan Chand 

Harjas " Rai, Amritsar 
2305 Harbhajan Singh c /o M /s . Northern 

India Goods Transport . . Co ., 

Jullundur 
2306 Hardayal Singh Bubber clo M /s. Indore 

Iron & Steel Mills , Amritsar . 
2307 Hazara Singh Vill. Gurdial Jugian , 

P . O . Valtoha , Teh . Patti, Dis 

trict Amritsar 
2308 J. K . Seth clo M /s. Sant Ram & Sons , 

Ludhiana . . . . . 


1964- 65 
1965 -66 
1965- 66 


1 ,00, 445 


Indl. 


1 ,09, 534 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 


1,59, 033 
1, 12, 829 


HUF 


1962-63 


1 40 ,000 


Indl. 


1960 -61 
1961 -62 


3 , 53 , 131 
1 , 253425 


1962-63 


1 ,01 , 176 


1946 - 47 
1947 - 48 


1 ,67,397 
6 ,76 , 276 


1 ,01,719 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 , 06 ,911 


2309 Jagan Nath clo M /s. Jai Ram & Sons, 

Pathankot 
2310 Jagan Nath Maheshwari, Batala Road , 

Amritsar . 
2311 Jagat Singh & Sons, c/o M /8. Hans Raj 
Pahwa & Bros ., Ludhiana 

HUF 
2312 Jai Ram c /o M /s. Jai Ram & Sons, 
Pathankot . 

Indl. 
2313 Jaswant Singh Bawa c /o Bombay Motor 

Trading Co., Kapurthala 
2314 Jodh Singh c /o M /s. Jodh Singh Gujral 

& Song, Dogra Hall , Jammu . 
2315 Jujhar Singh c /o Asia Electric Co ., 

Phagwara . 
2316 Kharaiti Ram Malhotra , Yamuna 

nagar 
2317 Kirpal Singh , Partner of M /s. Darbara 
Singh & Sons , Amritsar 

. Indl. 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 , 12 , 745 
3 , 82 ,269 


1,00 , 778 


1,01, 708 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,00, 294 


1 , 96 ,056 
1 , 78 ,533 
2 , 10 , 482 


HUF 


1, 07 ,023 


2318 Kishen Chand clo Amin Chand & Sons, 

Landra (Jullundur) 
2319 Madan Lal clo Amritsar Transport Co., 

Amritsar 


1965- 66 
1962-63 


Indl. 


1 ,06 ,716 


Bro. 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2841 


1 


2320 Moti Rem c/ o Amir Chand Moti Ram , 

Majith Mandi, Amritsar 
2321 Om Prakash c /o M /s. Hero Cycle In 

dustries , Ludhiana 


Indl. 


- 


1962 -63 


1,99 ,115 


1962 -63 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 


1,61,070 
1 , 23, 547 
1 , 20 , 993 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 


1,82 ,854 
1 ,03,510 
1,02, 508 


1962-63 


2 /42,920 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,04 ,612 
3 , 06 , 403 


1 ,87 , 643 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1963-64 


1 , 19 ,748 


1,01, 110 


2322 P . N . Berry , c/o Lcader Engineering Works , 

Jullundur 
2323 Pakhar Singh c /o . G . N . E . Phagwara H . Ü . F . 
2324 Panna Lal & Sons, Amritsar : 
2325 Paul Singh c /o S . P . Gramophone 
Co. Jullundur 

Indl. 
2326 Payara Singh , clo Asia Electric Co., 

Poagwara . . . . . 
2327 R . A . Boga, Amritsar . 
2328 Raj Kumar Loona, c /o Chaman Lal, 
Loona & Co., Muktsar 

H . U . F . 
2329 Rattan Chand Kishori Lal V & P . O . 

Sarahan District Mahasu ( H . P .) . . 
2330 Roop Kishore c /o M /8 . R . N . Oswal 
Hosiery Factory , Ludhiana 

Indi. 
* .2331 S . K . Sethi, c/o M /s. Sant Rem & 

Sons, Ludhiana 
-2332 S . P . Virmani, c /o Jawale Flour Mills, 
Amritsar . 

; . H . U . F . 
.2333 Sadhu Singh c/o S. P . Gramophone 
Co., Jullundur 

Indl. 
-2334 Sadhu Singh Partner M /s . Auto Piston 

Mfg . Co., Amritsar . 
2335 Sain Dass alias Bijli Pehalwan clo 

Amritsar Transport Co., Amritsar 
-2336 Sant Kumar c /o R . N , Oswal Hosiery 

Factory , Ludhiana 
2337 Sardar Singh Prop . M /s. Sardar Sons, 

Factory Area , Patiala . 
2338 Smt. Satya Devi Nanda c /o M / s. 

Rohtak Delhi Transport Co. ( P ) 

. Ltd ., Rohtak , . 
2339 Satyanand c /o M / s . Hero Cycle Indus 

tries , Ludhiana 


1960 -61 


2 , 94, 278 


2 , 19 , 806 


1962 - 63 
1962-63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


2,42,668 
2 ,28 ,098 
1,38 ,200 


1964 -65 
1963- 64 


1, 00 , 526 
1921,957 


1966 -67 


1,01, 777 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


1 ,03, 144 
1 ,03, 121 


H . U . F . 


1965 - 66 


Shiv Dayal c/o Amin Chand & Sons, 

Landra ( Jullundur) . . . 
2341 Sohanlal & Sons, c /o M /s , Hans Raj 

Pahwa & Bros ., Ludhiana 
2342 Sohan Lal Prop . Jai Dayal Sohan Lal, 

Amritsar 
2343 Sunder Singh Bawa, c/o Bombay Motor 

Trading Co., Kapurthala 


1965- 66 
1965 -66 


1, 12, 918 
1,01,021 
1, 14 , 28 2 


Indi. 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


3 ,11 ,912 
3 ,80 ,652 


1962 -63 


1,06 ,540 
1901, 712 


1958 - 59 


2344 Smt. Swaran Lata Aggarwal c /o Dr. 

T . R . Aggarwal, Government Me 

dical College, Rohtak . 
2345 Swarn Singh , Friends Colony , Taylor 

Road , Amritsar 
2346 Tara Chand Mehra c /o Dewan c . 

Mehra & Co., Amritsar 
2347 Uttam Chand , Prop . Unnati Textile 

Mills , Amritsar 
2348 Yadvindra Singh Ji ( H . H .) 

Patiala 


1 ,25 ,644 


1962 -63 
1962-63 


2 , 17 , 102 


1963-64 


4 , 22, 576 


2842 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART II 


3 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 36 ,557 
6 ,82, 261 


Indi. 


1, 00 ,888 


1963 -64 
1962- 63 
1965 -66 


1,03,810 


RAJASTHAN 
2349 Smt. Ayodhia Kumari 18 , Ratnada, 
Jodhpur . 

. Indi. 
2350 Baldeodass Rameshwardags, Bhllwara H . U . F . 
2351 Brig . H . H . Meharao Sh . Sir Bhimsingh 

Ji Bahadur KCSI, Umaid Bha 

van , Kota . 
2352 Chauthmal Fatehpuria , Sadulpur, 

(Bikaner Div . ) 
2353 Chhatarsingh 3/ 0 Shri Sohanlal, Bika 
ner . . . 

. ” 
2354 Gangadevi Taparia , Jaswant 

(Jodhpur Division ) 
2355 K ." L . Ghatiwalal, Jalpur . , 
2256 Kanwalngin Hamirsingh Lodbe House , 

Almer . 
2357 Nirmal Kumar Sethia , Sujangarh , (Bika 

ner Division ) . . . Indi. 
2358 Ramgopal Nakkar, Khanaki Gall , 
Jaipur 

H . U . F . 
2359 Smt. Rajkumari Devi , Bangur, 

Didwana . . . . . Indl. 


11,01, 800 


arg , 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 13 , 154 
1 , 35 ,412 


H . U . F . 


1965-66 


1,33, 982 


1961 -62 
1962 - 63 


2 , 80 ,878 
1,01, 500 


1,09,792 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1963- 64 
1965- 66 


1, 07 , 029 
1 , 22 ,397 
1 , 07 , 078 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1,08 ,965 
1,42 ,890 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


3 , 70 ,000 
1,84, 747 


1966 -67 


1 ,06 ,007 


od 


189 


1962 -63 


1, 17 ,013 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,28 ,012 
1942 , 604 


1962 -63 


1 ,09,934 


2360 Ramdayal Joshi, Jaipur 
236t Ram singh Garg, Plo. M /s. Ramsingh 

Garg , Parao , Ajmer 
2362 Ramniwas, Military Contractor, 

Alwar 
2363 Sardar Singh of Khetri 
2364 Smt, Shantiben Manilal Patel P / O . 

M /8. Chandulal Jagjiwandas & Co., 

Bhawanimandi 
2365 Sobhagmal Lodha, Lodha House, 
Ajmer 

2 . H .U .F . 
2366 Sobhagmal Lodha, Lodha House , 
Ajmer 

Indl. 
2367 Santoshilal Seth , Bharatpur 
2368 Damodardas Khandelwal, Johri Bazar, 

Jaipur . . . . . H . U . F . 
TTAR PRADESH - I. 
2369 Smt. Anguiya Devi, Benari Niwas, Kan 
pur , 

: 
2 . Civillimi 

Indl. 
2370 B K . Sharma, Civil Lincs , Jhansi 
2371 B . M , Kanodia , Harrishganj, Kanpur , HUF 
2372 DP, Kanodia , Harrisliganj, Kanpur - HUE 
2323 Dwarka Das c /o Dwarka Pd . Shiv Karan 

Dags , Generalganj, Kanpur . . Indl. 
2374 

G . P . Kanodia , Harrishganj, Kanpurl 
G . P . 
Ghosh P , K ., Allahabad 

HUF 
2376 Gopal Kishan Singhania , Kamla Tower, 
Kanpur . 

Indi, 
2377 Hari Shankar Singhania , Kami Tower , 
Kanpur : 

Indl. 
2275 K . Kbünnula , Halsi Road, Kanpur 

HUF 
2379 Laxmipat Singhania , Kamla Tower, Kan 
pur . 

Indl. 
2980 Laxmipat Singhania , Kamla Tower, Kan 
pur : 

HUF 
2281 Manni Lal, Gola Darwaza , Lucknow i HUF 
2382 Padampat Singhania, Kamla Tower, Kan 

HUF 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1965 - 66 
1965 -66 


2 , 34 ,641 
1 ,76 , 130 
1 , 06 ,470 
1 ,07 , 060 


Indl. 


1962 - 63 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,11, 024 
1 ,04 ,250 
7, 43, 365 
1, 22 ,446 


1966 -67 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,88 ,096 
1, 00 , 000 


1 ,64 ,225 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1962- 63 


1,74,627 
1, 75 , 180 


1966 -67 


1, 37 ,654 


pur 


Sra. 8( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


5 


. 


2383 Pravin Chand , A .Mehta , Kanpur , , Indi, 
2384 Dr. R . N . Mehrotra , ESI Dispensary , 
Dalalpurwa, Kanpur 

Indl. 
2385 Ram Swarup clo Ram Sarup Raghubar 
Dayal, Nayaganj, Kanpur , 

Indl. 
2386 Raghubar Dayal, c /o Ram Sarup Raghubar 

Dayal, Nayaganj, Kanpur . . Indl. 
2387 ajnikant A . Mehta , Kanpur . . , Indi, 
2388 S . M . Bashir, Kamla Tower, Kanpur . 
2389 . Shripat Singhania , Kamla Tower, Kan 
2390 Smt. Shanti Devi, silver Oaks, Civil de 

Lines , Kanpur 
2391 V . Collowey o Cownpore Woolen Milishdi, 

Co. Ltd ., Kanpur 
2392 w . J. Oakhley , C/O M S E . Hil & Co. alla 

Mirzapur . . . . . Indi. 


1966- 67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1964 - 65 
1966 -67 


1,05. 710 
1959,733 
1 , 13, 970 


1 , 13 ,970 
1,03 ,590 
I , 19 , 426 
1 , 44 ,888 


1 , 57 ,917 


1 ,41,000 


1966 -67 
1965-66 
1962- 63 
1966 - 67 


1,85, 162 
1,01,085 


UTTAR PRADESH -II 
2393 A . C . Jain Inder Road , Dehradun . 


Indi, 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1,64, 960 
1 , 92 ,590 
1 , 35, 660 


2394 Amar Nath c /o M /1. SantRam Sohan Lal 

Kotdwana. 
2305 Bakhshish Ahmed , Mailani, Dist. Kheri . 
2396 Baij Nach Goel, Anand Chowk , Dehra 

dun . . . . . . 


Indl. 
Indl. 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1,07, 972 


1 , 07,219 


Indl. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


1 ,00, 608 
1,28 , 340 
1, 34 , 860 


2397 C . P . Sharma Prop. Industrial Mineral 

Corp . Muni-Ki-Reti - Rishikesh , Indi. 
2398 DeviChand ( Seth ), SardarNagar, Saharan 
pur . 

HUF 
2399 Miss Farida Manal d O M /s. Himalya 
Drug Co . Dehradun 

. , Indl. 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 14 ,657 
1, 18 ,033 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 ,65, 960 
3 , 40 ,619 


Indl. 


1966 -67 


1 , 59 ,050 


1962 -63 


1 , 12 ,676 


1962 -63 
1959- 60 
1962 -63 


2 , 84 , 956 
1 ,05 ,772 
1 ,68,618 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1954 -55 


2 ,85, 917 
3 , 74 ,854 


2400 Ganesh Lal c/o M /s . Lalji Mal Tika Ram , 

Hathras , 
2401 Israrul Ilaq clo M / s. New Commercial 
Syndicate, Firozabad 

Indl. 
2 ,02 Jawaharlal clo Hindustan Metal Works, 
Hathras . 

Indi, 
2403 K , K . Jain , Lucknow . . . . Indl. 
2404 K . P . Bhargava , Agra . 
2405 Karmendra Narain c /o M /s. Shiv Narain 

Karmendra Narain , Aligarh . . Indi. 
2406 M . C . Mo an , Lucknow . 

Indt. 
2407 M . Manal clo M /s. Himalya Drug Co. 
Dehradun . . . . 

Indl. 
2408 M . Misel, c /o as above 
2409 Matroo Mal Dhanna Mal, Hathras 

HUF 
2410 Smt. Mewal Bal c / o M / s. Balchand Dayal 

Dang Timber Merchant, Hardwar . 
2411 Mulkrat & Others, Legal helse of Late R . B . 

Lachman Das, Lucknow . . . Indl. 
2412 Murtaza Ail Khan (H . H . Captain ) legal 

heir to H . H . Sir Raza Ali Khan , Ram 
ріг . 

Indi. 
2413 Warendra Kumar c/o M /s. Seth Deni 

chand & Sons , Sardar Nagar, Saharan 
pur 

. . . . . . Indi, 


Indl. 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


3 ,40 ,619 
5 , 25 ,537 
1,85, 258 


Iadı. 


+ 1, 59 ,065 


1962-63 
1947 - 48 


12, 39 ,079 


1962 -63 


1 ,359512 


1962 -63 


1,03,949 


2844 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 6 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


3 


1966 -67 
1966 - 67 


2414 Narendra Lal c /o Upper Doab Sugar Mills 

Ltd ., Shamli, Distt. Muzaffarnagar Indl. 
2415 Naresh Prasad Mittal, Bijnor 

. HUF 
2416 Nawal Kishore c/o M /s. Shiamlal Chiman 
lal, Agra . . 

Indl. 
2417 P . D . Bhargava Prop . M /s . Midland Fruit 

& Vegetable Products , Mathura . Indl. 
2418 R . C . Goel, Lucknow 

Indl. 
2419 RajKumar Goel, Anand Chowk , Dehra 

dun . . . . . : Indl. 


1962- 63 


1962 - 63 
1965 - 66 


1 ,08, 501 
1, 00 ,593 
1,42,343 
4 ,40 ,347 
1, 26 ,450 
1, 16 ,73 
1,72,890 
2 ,41, 550 
1 ,34 ,439 
3 ,48 ,706 
1, 20 ,615 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


cas 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


. 


2420 Rajendra Prd . Mittal, Bijnor 

HUF 
2421 Ram Babu Lal c / o Bijli Cotton Mills , 
Hathras 

Indl. 
2422 Ram Narain Gopal Prasad , Hat 

HUF 
2423 Ramcharan Lal clo M / s. Laljimal Tika 
Ram , Hathras 

Indl. 
2424 Ram Gopal c /o M / s . Laljimal ? 
Hathras . 

Indl. 
-2425 Ramesh Kumar Goal , Anand Chowk, 
Dehradun 
. 

, Indl. 


1966 -67 


1 ,69, 369 


Ram , 


1966 -67 


1,67, 304 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1 , 16 ,872 
1 ,72 , 980 
2 ,41, 190 
6 ,81,976 
1 ,63, 173 
1 , 00 , 924 


1 ,59, 194 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


2 ,99, 191 


1962-63 


2 ,66 ,695 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1955 -67 


2 , 45 ,814 
2 , 44 ,557 
1 ,65, 95 


2426 Shiam Lal Chiman Lal, Agra 

HUF 
2427 Shambhoo Dayal, Advocate , Bijnor . Indl. 
2428 Shanti Prasad Mittal, Bijnore 

Indi, 
2429 Sir Shadilal & Sons, Shamlı Distt, Muzaf 
farnagar . 

HUF 
2430 T . C . Agarwal c/o M /s. Hindustan Metal 
Works, Hathras 

Indl. 
2431 Mrs. Uma Lal c / o Hindustan Metal 
Works, Hathras 

Indi. 
- 2432 Smt. Vishwa Mohinin Aggarwal, c /o M /s . 

Karmendra Narain Ajai Narain , Ali 

garh · · · · · · Indi. 
2433 Whi Ic G .W .M . Sitapir , , Indi. 

WEST BENGAL - I 

S / Shri 
2434 A. C .Mitra , 18 , BallyganjCircular Rd ., 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2435 A . E , Carlton , c /o The Statesman Ltd . : Indl. 
2436 A . K . Bose , 7, Wellesly Place, Calcutta Indl. 
2437 A , K . Ghose , 19 , British Indian St. Cal. Indl. 
2438 A . K . Mittra , c /o Mahendra & Mahendra 

Ltd ., 31, Chowsinghee Road , Cal. Indl. 
2439 A . N .Billimoria , o Great Eastern Hotel, 

Indi, 
2440 Dr. A . R . Roy , 93 , Park Strect, Cal. . Ind1. ) 
2441 Janab Abdual Salim , 58 , Metcalfe St., 
Cal. 

Indi. 
2442 Sardar Ajaib Singh , 7, Wellesly Place, 
Cal. 

Indi, 
2443 Ajit Kumar Dutt, 80 / 1, Cbetla Rd 

Indl. 
2444 Sardar Amrit Singh , 5 / 19B , Roopnagar, 
Subzimandi, New Delhi . 

Indi, 
2445 Anjali Kr. Boge , C /O G . K . W . Calcutta , Indl. 
2446 Ashok Roy, 3 , Upper Circular Road , Cal. Indl. 
2447 Askaran Kissendal, 20 ,Mullick St. , Cal, , Indi, 
2448 Atul Krishna Dutta , 55/ C , Gai nuddin 
Mistry Lane . . . . 

Indl. 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1967-68 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1964 -65 


1 ,39,617 
1 ,05 , 437 
1,89 ,670 
1 ,35,990 
1 ,32 ,026 
1 , 19 , 040 


1 ,38 ,825 


Cal. 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


2 , 99 ,274 
1, 21 ,722 


1 , 04 ,621 


1966 - 67 
1962 -63 


5 ,02 , 320 
1 , 33 ,333 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


3 , 46 ,231 
1,35, 148 
1,03, 934 
1,05, 206 


1962 -63 


4 ,66 ,413 


Sec . (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 19. 1890 


2845 : 


N 


3 . 


1 , 03 ,639 


2 , 00 ,211 


2449 Avijit Sen ,Mercantile Building, Cal-I , Indl. 
2150 B , A . Khaitan C /o M /s Khaitan & Co., 

1/ B , Old Post Office St., Cal. . Inal. 
2451 B . N .Dey Clo Dey s Meaical Stores ( P ) 

Ltd ., 6 2B , Lindsay St., Cal- 15 . . Iudi, 
2452 B . P . Roy Co Orr Bignam & Co., 27 , N . 
S . Road , Calcutta - I . 

Indi, 
2453 B . S . Mohatta , 19 , British Indian St., 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2454 B. S.Randhawa, 34, Hide Road , Cal. : Indi. 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1965-66 
1965 -66 


1 , 52, 688 


1, 93 , 510 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 


2 ,92 , 340 
1 ,80 ,009 
1 , 10 , 049 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,83, 425 
2 , 13 ,150 


1 ,31, 288 


2 , 06 ,600 
1 ,54 ,039 


2455 Babulal Bhagwandas, I , Nurmal Lohia 
Lanc , Cal. 

Indi, 
2456 Banamalidas Bagri 138 , Canning St., Cai. Indl. 
2457 Banamali Das, High Court Bar Library , 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2458 Bhagwati Pd .Goenka, 9, Barbourne Rd ., 
Cal. . . . . . . 

Indl. 
2459 Bhawanidas Ram Gobind , 7, Shambhu 
Mullick Lanc, Cal, 

Indl. 
2460 Bheroo Bux Daga, 3, Chittaranjan Avenue , 
Cal . 

Indl. 
2461 Bhubaneswar Şingh, i, Crooked Lane, 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2462 Bijoy Kr. Sadhukhan , 21, Haragange Rd ., 
Cal. 

Indl . 
2463 Bilas Singh , 1/1/ B , Benianandan St., Cal, Indl. 
2464 Sir Birendra Nath Mukherjee, 12 , Mission 

Row , Cal. i 


1 ,07,558 


1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


11 , 94 , 458 


9 ,00 ,258 


1,03,619 
2 ,69 , 201 


Indl. 


22,72 ,421 
16 , 86 ,344 
17 , 12 , 492 - 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1965 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 05, 752 


1 ,42 ,259 


2465 Brian Rai C /OI. C . I., Cal. , 

. . . Indl. 
2466 Brijlal Lokia , 114 , Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2467 Brijratan Mohto , 18A,Rupchand Roy st., 
Cal. 

Indi, 

: : 
2468 c . A : Bone, clo IT, Co., Cat. : 

Indl. 
2469 C , A . Brown , C /O Brooke Bond ( I ) Pyt. 

Ltd ., Cal. , , , , , Indi , 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 ,68 ,917 
1,68 ,241 


1961-62 
1962 -63 


1 ,00 , 226 
1 , 11 ,930 


1962 -63 


4 ,00,000 


1,90 ,450 


2470 C. D . Manack , 9, Chittaranjan Avenue , 
Cal. 

Indi. 
2.471 C.1. M .Arnold , c/o Shaw Wallace & Co. 
Ltd . , Cal . 

Indl. 
2472 C.K .M . Madharji,35, Chittaranjan Ave . 

· Due, Cal. 
2473 C.L .Mehra, Co J.E. Works Ltd., 183A, 

Indi. 
Prince A . Ş . Road , Cal. - 3 ) 

Indi. 
2474 C . M . A . Batherst, Clo Shaw Wallace & 
Co., Ltd . , Cal. 

1 . Indi. 
2475 Chhaganmal Chopra , 133 , Canning St., a 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2476 D.A . Haughton , C/o Shaw Wallace & Co. 

Indi. 
D . B. Wallace, Clo Shaw Wallace & Co . 
Ltd ., Cal. 

Indl. 
2478 D. ). Dhanbora, C/O I.T. Co., Cali Indi. 
2479 D . K . Basu , C /o Orr Dignam & Co., 29 , 
Netaji Subhas Rd ., Cal. 

Indl. 
2480 D . N . Bhattacharjee , c o Bangalaxmi 
Cotton Mills , Cal. 

Indl. 
2481 D . N . Ojha , 1 1 /B , Beninandan Al, Indr. 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 - 67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 

1962- 63 
1965- 66 


1, 92 ,651 
1,06 ,662 
2 ,00 , 005 
1, 10 ,874 
1,77 ,063 


1 , 09 , 069 
1 , 00 ,644 


1,58, 588 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


1 ,02, 508 
1,02,606 


2846 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JAYASTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II 


Indl. 


2 ,71,704 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


2,07,746 
3,08, 507 


2 , 17 ,516 
1 ,56 ,018 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1963- 64 


1, 39,655 
1, 04 ,417 


2 , 55, 992 


Cal, 


1 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1966 - 67 


1, 37 , 014 
2 , 60 , 730 
1 ,32 , 900 


1962 - 63 


1 ,21, 170 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 


1 , 16 ,000 
1,04, 364 


1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962- 63 


2 , 02 , 117 
1905 ,081 


1,37,245 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


3 ,66 , 179 
1, 18 , 220 


2482 D . P . Agarwal, 19 , Maharshi Debendra 

Road , Cal. 
. 2483 Darakadas Shivjce , 3 , Purtagsi Church 
Lane, Cal. 

Indl.. 
2484 Lala Darakadas , i9, Maharshi Devendra 
Rd . 

Indl. 
. 2485 Debi Pd. Goenka , 9, Brabourne Rd.; 
Cal. . . . . 

Indi. 

. 
. 2486 Deepchand Kankaria , 87 , Dharamiolla 
St. , Cal. . 

Indl. 
2487 Dulichand Omprakash , 4, Narayan Pa." 
Babu Lane, Cal. 

Indi. 
2488 Dulichand Omradlal, 4, Chittajanjani 
Avenue, Cal, 

Indi. 
-2489 Durgadas Saigal, 5 , Dharamtolla St., 

Indi, 
2490 E . R . Meyer , 67 , Paik Street, Cal . Indi. 
.. 2491 Erric Jessop , Cio Gestetner Duplicator . Indi. 
2492 F . Bowcock , C /o Hindustan Steel Ltd ., 
Cal, 

Indi, 
.-2493 F.W .A , Lahmeye , c o Martin Burn Ltd., 
Cal. 

Indl. 

• • 
4. Moult, IT. Co 
2494 

Indl. 
2495 G , N . Makhanwalla , 12B , Debi Chow 

dhuri Road , Calcutta . . . Indi. 
2496 G .V . K . Muirthy, Clo Brooke Bond (I) 

Pvt. Ltd ., Cal. 
...2497 Gayadinram Kalwar,8, Rajendra Dev. Rd, .. . 

2498 Geeta Bancrjee, 12 ,Mission Row , Cal. : Indi, 
2499 Ghanshyamdas, 183B , Vivekananda Rd., 
Cal. 

. . HUF 
. 2500 Girdhardas Bhimji, 32/A , Dharamtalla 

St., Cal. . . . . . Indl. 
... 2501 Gobardhan Das , Siliguri, Dt. Darjeeling Indl, 

2502 Gopal Chakraborty , 80 / 1, Chetla Road Indl, 
.. 2503 Dr. Gorachand Nand1, 11 ,Basanta Bose 

Rd. 
2504 Gour Mohan Duria, 54, Muyrpara Rd., ale 
Cal, 

Indi. 
- 2505 Gyandas Shaw,229, Cblttaranjan Avenue, 
Cal. 

Indi, 
- 2506 H. Bhasania,P-19;Ganesh Ch . Avenue, 

Cal . 
- 2507 H . Holloway , C/o Ramfrey & Sons,40/44 , 

Indl. 
Stephen House , Cal. 

Ind . 
- 2508 H . C . Bhattacharjee, 75 , Netaji Subhas 
Road , Cal. 

Indi. 
..2909 H . G . Longley , Clo Gresham & Craven , 
CAL 

Indi. 
2510 H . J. Silverstone , C /o Orr Dignam & Co ., 
29 , Netaji Subhas Road , Cal. 

Indl. 
. 2511 H . K.Dey, Co Howrah Motor Co., Mis 
sion Row , Cal. 

Indl. 
2512 H . P . Singh , Co M /s Singh & Bagarthe , 
21, Old Court House St ., Cal. 

Indi. 
2513 H . $ . Chowhan ,31, Chowringhee Square , 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2514 Haribox Gopiram , 14 /2, Sovaram Basak 
St , Cal. . . . . . . 

HUF 
2515 Haridas Munda , 18A , Loudon St., Cal. · Indl. 
2516 Harindas Mulchandan , 23A /2 , Diamond 

Harbour Road . . . . . Indl. 


1965 - 66 


1 ,42 ,606 


1962-63 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1, 25 , 194 
1 ,51 ,682 
1 , 35 , 333 


1962 -63 


I 941,805 


1962 - 63 


3 , 94 , 277 


1 ,37,944 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1964- 65 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


1,24 526 
1,15 ,327 
1 ,05,597 
2,18, 437 
1,69 , 093 
1,13,049 


1, 33 , 951 


2 ,00,000 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


2 , 57 , 629 
7 , 51 ,680 


1965-66 


1 ,61,031 


Sec . 9 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2847 


Ι 


I 


Indl 
Indl, 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 


1 , 59 ,420 

1, 08 , 590 


2517 Himansu Roy, 21 , Suterkin St., Cal. . 
2518 Indra Singh , 7 , Wellesley Place, Cal. . 
2519 Iswari Pd . Goenka, 9, Brabournc Rd ., 
CAL. . . 

. . , 
2520 J. K , Gora , c o Ballarale Thompson & 

Metheny, 7 , Wellesley Place, Cal. , 


Indi, 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 88 ,701 
1, 76 , 248 


Indi. 


1965 -65 
1966 - 67 
1962-63 


1, 69, 841 
1 ,66 ,242 
1 ,00 ,500 


Indi , 


2521 J . N . Mitra , 14 - B , Gora Chand Lane , 
2922 Jarnung Pd . Goenka, 9 , Brabourne Rd . , 

Cal, 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


2 ,05, 268 
1 ,69 , 366 


1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


2 , 40 ,055 
1 , 73 , 103 


1966 - 67 
1962 - 63 


1,61, 169 
7, 32 ,815 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,72, 396 
1 ,01, 008 
1,55,219 
2 ,52 , 957 
1 , 58 , 307 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 95,083 
1 ,26 ,072 


2 , 26 ,693 


1962 - 63 
1961-62 


1 , 21 ,075 


2535 Mrs. Lina Mukherjee,6, Lower Circular 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 ,58, 586 
1 , 32 , 340 
5 , 35 ,795 


1962 - 63 


1,00 , 214 


2523 Jogmohan Pd . Goenka, 9 , BrabourneRd., 

Cal. . . . . . . Indl. 
2524 K . Khaitan , C /o M /s. Khaitan & Co., I/ B , 
Old Post Office St., Cal, . . 

- 
wie 

Indl. 
2525 K . D . Ladgaria , 45 , Motiscal St., Cal. . Indl. 
2526 K . K . Jaiywal, 88, Rajendra Dev. Rd ., 

Çal, . . . . . . Indl. 
2527 K . N . Bhatoria , 3, Mangae Lane , Cal. , Indi. 
2528 K . P . Roy , 21 , Prince St., Cal. . . Indl, 
2529 K . P . Belani, Clo Majula (P ) Ltd ., Indi. 
2530 K . P . Ojha, I / 1 / B , Beninandan St. , Cal. . Indl. 
2531 Smt. Kamela Devi Bhagat, 7, Vivekananda 
Rd. , Cal. 

Indi, 
2532 Mrs. Kanki K . Balani, Cal. 

Indl. 
2433 Kishan Singh Arora, 62, Bentick St., 

Indi, 
2534 Lakshmidar Loyalka, 12 ,Govi. Place Ext: 
Cel. 

Indl. 
Rd., Cal, 

Indi. 
2536 M . M . P . D sonza, Io , Madan St., Cal. , Indl. 
2537 M . S . Oberoi, 17 , Chowringhee Rd ., Cal , Indi, 
2538 S . Mebh Singh , C /o Hindusthan Sales 

Agency , P - 29 , Mission Row Exten ., 

Cal. . . . . . . Iirdi, 
2539 Monohar Singh Bain , Siliguri, Dt.: Dar 

jeeling . . . . . . Indl. 
2540 Monoharlal Raitani, South Office Para, 

(Dorando ) Hinoo , Ranchi, Bihar . . Indl. 
2541 Murarilal Giridharilal, 61, Strand Rd., 

Cal. . . . . . . HUF 
2542 N . C . Chatterjee , P - 514,Raja Basanta Roy 
Road , Extn ., Calcutta 

Indl. 
2543 N . C . Datta, 95, Rash Behari Avenue, 

Cal. 
2544 N .K. Bagaria,3/1, Chowringhce Square, 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2545 N . S. Metal Industries, 103/4, Basantalai 
Saha Road , Cal. 

Indl. 
2546 Nandkishore Lohia , 114 , Chittaranjan 
Avenue, Cal. . 

Indl. 
2547 Nandlal Joshi, P - 15, Indian Exchange 
Place, Cal , . 

Indi, 
2548 Naraindas Paramanand Das , 37, Armanian 

Indi, 
2549 Mrs .Necta Pilloi, 12,Mission Row , Cal. · Indl. 
2550 Smt. Nilima P . Nandy, 302, Upper Cir 
cular Rd., Cal. 

Indl. 
2551 Nilmony Dutt, 55 /4 , Gainuddin Mistry 

Lane . . . . . . Indl. 


1963-64 


1,09, 919 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 


1, 18 ,055 
2 , 47 ,421 


Indi. 


1966 -67 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1,049317 
1,14, 664 
2, 28 ,068 
1,38 ,550 
1, 50 ,345 
1,99,487 
2 , 94 ,000 
1 , 16 , 947 


St., Cal. . 


Mission Row , Cal. 


Indl. 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 30, 553 


1962- 63 
1962-63 


2 ,17,990 


2848 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Tart II - 


3 


4 


5 


1 ,01,477 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 36 , 165 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1,02,058 
1 , 58 , 266 
3 ,01, 800 


1965 -66 


1 , 26 , 510 


Cal. 


1962 - 63 
1965 - 66 


1 ,38, 171 
1 ,02, 36T 


1966 -67 


3 ,67,419 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


2552 Nimo land miramutmall, 14 , Princep St., 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2553 Nirmala Bala Saha,4, Creek Church Row 
Extn ., Cal, 

Indl. 
2554 NishitKumar Biswas,140 , Cornwallis St., 

Cal. , 
2555 Oder Ojha, 1/ 1/ B , Beninandun St., Cal. · Indl. 
2556 P . Vonner , 12 , Dalhousie Sqr. Calcutta . Indi. 
2557 P . Sengupta , C / o Orr Dignam & Co., 27 , 
Netaji Subhas Road , Cal , 

Indl. 
2558 P . C . Biswas, 51, Deshpran Sashmal Rd ., 

. . : Indl, 
2559 P . E . John , C /OIT. C 

Indl. 
2560 P . N . Banerjee (Decd .) 6 , Lower Circular 

Road , Cal. . . . . . 
251 P . N . Haksar, C /o Dunlop Rubber Co ., 

57 - B , Free School St., Cal. . Indl. 
2562 P . N . Ojha, 1 / 1 / B , Beninandan St., Cal, Indl. 
2563 P . N . Talukdar, 4 , Chittaranjan Avenue , 
Calcutta . : 

Indl. 
2564 P . S . Bagarthey, C /o M /s. Singh Bagarth¢y 
21 -Old Court House St. , Cal. : 

Indl. 
2565 Mrs . Padma V . Samtani, IB Minto Park , 
Cal. 

Indl. 
2566 Pannalal Mundra , 113,Monohardas Katra 
Lanc, Cal, 

Indi. 
2567 Parashmal Kankaria, 89 , Dharamtolla St., 
Cal. . 

Indi. 
2568 Paritosh Mondal, C /o H . S. B . C .. Cal. . 
2569 PratapmallGovindram , 118 / 119, Khengra 

Patty St., Cal. . . . . . 
2570 Pulin Kishore Roy , Legal Representative 

of Sm . Gouri Bala Roy & Pradip Kr. 

Roy , Abhoy Mitra St., Cal. . , Indi. 
2571 PumaCh . Barick , 2 / IB , Raja Rajkissen St., 
Cal. 

Indl 

vw cai 
2572 R . A . Binns, C /O G . K . W ., Cal 

Indl. 
2573 R , B . Ritchi, C /o G . K . W ., Cal. 

Indl. 
2574 R . C. Deb, High Court Bar Library, 

Indi , 
2575 R. D . Bhagat, 13/1A , Govt. Place East, 
Cal. 

Indi. 
2576 R . D , Bansal, 45 , Dharamtolla St., Cal. Indi. 
2577 R . E . H . Nelson , C /o H . S . B . C ., Cal. Indl. 


1962- 63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,29, 588 
1 ,09,446 
6 , 48 ,808 
1, 13,748 
1 , 16 , 429 
1,69, 156 
1 ,76 ,046 
1,25,862 


1962 -63 
1962-63 


Oudal, 


O H . S . B . C Cal. 


Indt 


1962- 63 


2 , 59 , 192 . 


1962-63 


1 ,95 , 351 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 
1966 - 67 


1 , 27 , 464 
1 , 25 ,764 
1 ,07, 958 


1966 -67. 


1, 70 ,049 


1962 - 63 
1962 - 63 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


2 , 33,080 
3 , 12 , 513 
1 ,37 , 286 
1,61,874 
1 , 36 ,831 
1 ,22 ,892 


2578 R . N . Das, 8 / 34, Fern Road , Çal, , Indi, 
2579 R . P . Kyan , C /o Metal Press Works Ltd . , 

165, Lower Chitpur Road , Cal. , , Indl. 
2580 R . W . Turnbull, C /o C . T . C . Cal. . . Indi, 


1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1967 - 68 


1 , 30 ,8431 
1 ,06 ,075 
1 , 06 , 349 
1,05, 288 . 
1 , 11 , 569 


2581 Rajendra Prosad Agarwalla , P - 14 ,Mission 

Row Extension 
2582 Rajendra Gupta, 195/1, MahatamaGan - Indl. 
dhi Road . . 

Indl. 
2583 Rana Chandra Sur, 25/ 1, Convent Rood 
Calcutta . . , 

Indl. 
2584 Ramlochun Mishra Rajendra NagoreRoad 

No. 6 , Pang Bihar . 
2585 Ram Narayan Vaidya , i, Gupta Lane 

Calcutta . . . . . Indl. 


1962- 63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 


1,24 , 861. 
1 ,68 ,959 
1, 26 ,212 
2 , 38 ,540 

1, 10 ,628 


Indl. 


feq . 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2849 


5 


2591 s Ltd.,MakerForceMission Koror Kamar 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1963-64 
1966 -67 

1966 - 67 
· 1965 -66 

1962-63 
1966- 67 


1, 46 , 837 
11,39, 192 
1, 04, 368 
1,25, 946 
2, 57 ,289 
3, 24, 790 
1 ,59, 504 
1,61, 874 
2 ,91,762 
1 ,31, 308 
1 , 24 , 601 


2586 Ramanlal Kanddi 6B Duttapara Lane 
Calcutta , 

Industrial 
2587 Ramashwarlal Agarwalla 3 - 6 Madhav 
Lano, Calcutta 

; Industrial 
2588 Ramricklal Dhanjee 435 Jessore Road 
Caloutta - 28 

Industrial 
2589 Lady Ranu Mukherjee A / C of Ramen 

Mukherjee , 12 Mission Row , Calcutta Industrial 
2590 Robin Mukherice Clo M /S, Martin Burn 

Ltd ., 12 Mission Row , Calcutta . . Industrial 
2591 S . Chowdhury, 10 , Old Post Office St., 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2592 s. Gupta c/o Martin Burá Ltd . Cai 

cutta . . . . . . Industrial 
2593 S. Lal 15 Chittaranjan Avenue, Cal 
cutta 

Industrial 
2594 Mrs. S . Silverton Clo Ramfrey & Sons, 

40 /44, Stephen Houso , Calcutta . · Industrial 
2595 S . C . Hazra , 58 Diamond Harbour Road , 
Calcutta . . 

Industrial 
2596 Maharaj Kr. S. C . Nandy, 302 Upper 
Circular Road , Calcutta ; 

Industrial 
2597 S . D . Gupta C /o I. T . Co. Calcutta . Industrial 
2598 S .G . Mahatta 19 British Indian St. 
Calcutta . . . 

Industrial 
2599 S . K . Dey , C /o Howrah Motor Co ., Migs 

ion Row , Calcutta , 

W , Cucutta . , . , Industrial 
2000 S.L .Dey, Clo Howrah Motor Co.,Mission 
Row , Calcutta 

Industrial 
2601 S . M . B .930 , 32/ 1, BallyganjCircular Road , 
Calcutta - 19 . 

Industrial 
2602 S .Mebh Singh , CloHindustan Sales Agen 

cy, P -29 Mission Row Exionsion Cal 
cutta 

· Industrial 
2603 S .N . Singh , 4 , Wollesly Place, cloSpinces 
Hotel , Calcutta 

Industrial 
264 S. N . Daga, 401/ 7A , Upper Chitpar Rd., 
Calcutta . 

Industrial 
2695 S .P . Jaiswal, 8B , Rajendra Do R 

Industrial 
2606 S . R . Möbatta , 19 , British Indian 
Calcutta . 

Industrial 
2607 S . S . Baksi, Ridhanagar Road , Asansol, 
Di. Burdwan , W . B . 

Industrial 
2638 Sm . Santi DebiGanguly , C / o Bengal En 

AmalWorks Ltd ., 41, Chowringhee Rd., 
Calcutta . . . . . . Industrial 


Vio 


1 , 57 ,772 
1, 32 , 929 


1912 -63 


5 , 18 ,426 
1 ,47,518 


1962 -63 


1962-63 
1966- 67 


1 , 26 ,126 
1, 22 ,070 


1962-63 
1962- 63 


1, 00 , 214 
1 , 51, 091 


1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,62 , 391 
2 , 07, 902 


1962- 63 


1 , 56 ,401 
1, 17 ,872 


1963 -64 


1965-66 
1966 - 67 


2 ,31, 253 
11 , 30 , 177 


1962- 63 
1962- 63 


3 ,01, 250 
1, 75, 858 


3 , 87, 772 


2619 Sangat Singh , 22 , Ashutosh Mukherjee 
Road 

Industrial 
2610 Santosh Kumar, 195 -1, MahatmaGan 
dhi Rd. . 

Industrial 
2611 Sarat Chandra Sadhukhan Karta of the 

H . U . F . styled Chandra Sadhukhan & 
Ors ., 67 /41 Strand Rd. 

HUP 
2612 Sardar Santok Singh , 10 /1, Princep St. 
Calcutta , 

HUF 
2613 sm . Sikha Debi Bhagat, 7 Vivekananda 
Rd., Calcutta 

HUF 
Sitadi Bhartia 4 Old Court House si., 

HUF 
2015 Sid Inartha Sankár Roj 2 BeltollaRoad , 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2616 Sk.M1. Jan Khan Bahadur, 28 Coolutole 

St. . , , . . . , Industrial 


2614 


1962-63 
1964 -65 
1962- 63 
1963-64 
1966 - 67 
1963- 63 


1, 16 ,737 
4 , 04, 589 
1,09,404 
1, 58 ,510 
1, 11 ,218 


2850 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[PART II 


2617 Somnath Chatterjee( B ), P - 514 Raja Basan 
ta Roy. Road , Calcutta 

Industrial 
2618 Sriratan Mohto, 18A Rupchånd Roy St., 
Calcutta , 

• Industrial 
2619 Sondhya RaniDebi,215 Sarat Bose Road, 
Calcutta . 

Industrvel 
2620 Sudhangy Kr. Ghosb , 21 Suterkin St. 

Industrial 
2621 Sukumar De, Clo M /s. Talbåt & Co. To 

wer House Chowringhee Squace , Cal 
cutte - I 

· Industrial 
2622 Sunil K . Dey , Clo Howrah Motor Co . 


1966 -67 
1962-63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 


1,06 ,346 
1,67, 996 
1 , 10 , 994 
1 , 59 ,429 


Calcutta . 


1, 20 ,850 


1966 -67 
1962-63 


Calcutta , 


gtiral 


. 


1,07, 717 


1962-63 
1962-63 


1,26, 544 
2 ,16 ,918 


15 , 11 ,022 


1,51 ,764 


2623 Surat Singh , Taogia , IIOA Chandney 
Chowk St., Calcutta - 13 . 

Industrial 
2624 Sardar Surjit Slagh , Clo Indra Singh 
Song , Calcutta 

Industrial 
2625 T . L . Martin (Decd .) Through Sri S. K . 

Mallik Bxecutor the Estate , C /o Sand 
crgon & Morgans , 5 & 7 , Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta 

Industrial 
2626 U . C. Ghosh, 90A s.p.Mukherjee Rd., 
Calcutta , 

Industrial 
2627 Uttam Kumar Chatterjec ,3 Moira St., 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2628 VIF .Viccajee , IB or Post office St., 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2629 V.G .Sonopal,P- 39 Mission Row Extr., 
Calcutta . 

Industrial 
2630 V . K , Soil, in British Indian St., Cal 
cutta , 

Industrial 
2631 VAN . Bhegot, 7 Vicekananda Rd., Calcutta HUF 
2632 V - P . Samtani C Malula ( P ) Ltd . . Industrial 
2633 Vinoy Kumar Singh, 1 Crooked Lane , 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2634 Vishawambbar Nath Bhagot, y Viveka 
nanda Road , Calcutta 

Industrial 
2635 W . Bright, C /o Shaw Wallace & Co . Ltd ., 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
2636 W . Morris , C /O G .K . W ., Calcutta : Industrial 
2637 W . K . Foster, C /o I. T . Co ., Calcutta . Industrial 


1965-66 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


1, 90 , 257 
1,01,830 


1 , 24 , 131 


1962 - 63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,27,837 
7 ,91,017 
4 , 14 ,966 


1962- 63 


3 ,62 ,699 
5 ,69, 607 


1962-63 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1 ,02, 143 
2 , 14 ,722 
1,28,352 


1962-63 


1915,038 


1962 -63 
1963-64 


1 , 57 ,417 
1, 29, 242 


West Bengal- II 
2638 Mr. A . F . Jesmore C /o Hindyuthan Mot 

ors Ltd . P . O . Uttarapara, District 
Hooghly . 

Individual 
2639 Mr. A . H . Hume, Clo Turner Morrisor & 

Co . Ltd . 6 Lyons Range, Calcutta - I . Individual 
2640 Mr. A . I. Murison , C /o James Finlay & Co . 

Ltd . 2 Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta , Individual . 
2641 Mr. A . Keown, Clo I.C . I. (India ) Pvt. 
Ltd . , 

Individual 
2642 A . M . S . Fergue, 4 Lyons Range, Calcutta Individual 
2643 A . P . Bhwalka , 7 . Lyons Range, Calcutta , Individual 
2644 A . R . Foster, C /o I.C .I.( India ) Pvt. Ltd . 

34 Chowringhee , Calcutta - 16 , . Indiviuda ! 
2645 A . R . Motwani 

, Individual 
2646 A . S . Juda . 

. In dividual 


1964 -65 


1 , 23 , 999 


1962- 63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 ,45, 560 
1 , 31, 400 
1 ,06 , 561 


1962-63 
1962-63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


2 , 52, 662 
3 ,02 ,950 
1 , 70 ,377 
1 ,41,330 
2 , 09 ,499 


2647 Mr. A . T . Montgomery Clo BalmerHawrie 

& Co . Ltd . 21 Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - I . . . . , Individual 


1962- 63 


1,94 ,699 


SEC . 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2851 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1964-65 
1962 -63 


1, 12 , 186 
1, 78 ,071 
1, 80, 488 
1, 55 ,685 


1962-63 
1962 -63 


1, 15 ,305 
2 , 51, 590 


1962-63 


1, 10 ,446 


1966 -67 


1, 14 , 172 


1961-62 
1962-63 


1 , 18, 640 
2 , 89 ,066 


2648 Akhoy Kr. Laha 

Individual 
2649 ArjunAgarwalla , 7 , Canning St., Calcutta Individual 
2630 Ashalata Nag & Ors ., 4 , Mandivelli 
Garden , Calcutta 

H . U . K . 
2651 Ashutosh Bose, 13 / 1, St.George Terrace , 
Calcutta , 

Individual 
2652 Aslam Manasseh (Decd .) Clo Morar & 

Co . Ltd ., C - 5, Clive Buildings, Cal 
cutta - I . , 

. . . Individual 
2653 B . C . Banerjee . 
2654 B : K . Chatterjec, 23 , Brabourne Road , 
Calcutta , 

Individual 
2655 B .P . Maheswari, Clo Nishan Traders, 9 , 

Brabourne Road , Calcutta . Individual 
2636 Sir B . P . Singha Roy throuch Execution of 

hig Estate Sri Š . K . Singha Roy 15 , 

Lansdown Road , Calcutta - 20 , . 
2657 BR . Motwani 

Indivicual 
2656 Mr. B.R . RAO , CioJ. Stone & Co . (India) 
Pvt. Ltd . 

Individual 
2659 B . S . Dua 

Individual 
2660 B.V. Kapadia, cio m /s. L.A . Bros., Ś; 
Cliv : Row , Calcutia . 

Individual 
2661 Bajranglal Agarwalla & Sons, 14, Bentick 
St., Calcutta . 

H . U . F . 
2662 Banwarilal Rajhoria , 10 / 2 , Sayed 
Line, Calcutta , 

H .U .F . 
2663 Benjamin Polk CoM /s. Chettericci Polk . 

23 , Br bourne Road , Calcutta . . Individual 
2664 Bhagchand Lokumal , , , , 
2665 Lil Jy Singh Gopi Idag , 

• Individual 
2660 Mr. C . D . Wilson Clo Balmir Lawric & 

Co . Ltd ., 21, Netaji Subhas Roa . , 
Calcutta - I 

Individual 
2667 Mr. C .E .J . Crawford Clo I. C . I. (India ) 

Pvt. Lt 1., 34 , Chowriagliee Calcutta - 16 Individual 
2663 Mr. C . G .Montgomery C /o Balmer Law 

rie & Co . Ltd ., 21 , Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutte - I 

. , Individual 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1,09,690 
2 ,09,827 


1966 -67 


1966 -67 


1,06 , 125 
3, 08 ,400 
1, 7 368 


ша, то , зayeg ПЕПеу 


1962-6 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 


1, 10 , 746 
1 ,32,867 
1, 10 ,702 


2 , 32 ,538 


962-63 
1962 -63 


1 ,55 , 835 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1996 -67 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1 , 30 , 916 
1 ,40, 74 
1 , 37 ,770 
1, 35 ,277 
1, 70 ,771 
1 , 94 , 209 
4 , 32 , 202 
1 , 19 , 981 
1, 23 ,973 
1 , 10 ,642 
2 , 28,415 


1962-63 


1, 03 ,516 


2669 C . L . Pync , 14 , India Ex. Place, Calcutta . , Individual 
2670 C . S . Madan 

Do . 
2671 Chaitandas Mundra , 54 , Ezra Şt., Calcutta Do . 
2672 Chandramukhi Devi, 9 , Ezra St., Calcutta , Do , 
2673 Charles Juda 

Do. 
2674 D . A . Muggelwhile & Orcs . . 

. H . U . F . 
2675 D . I. Patterson , 4 , Lyong Range , Calcutta . Individual 
2676 D . Fordwood , C /0 . Jardine Henderson Ltd ., 
4 , Clive Row , Calcutta , 

Do. 
2677 Mr. D . Manson C / o Balmer Lawric & Co . 

Ltd ., 21, Netaji Subhas Rd., Cal. - I. . Do, 
2678 Shri D . P . Mukherjee , Advocate , B . B . 
Ghosh Road , Burdwan , . , . 

Do. 
2679 Dharamsingh Vithaldas 
2680 Sri Dinesh Chandra H . Shah Clo Jawanlal 

( 1929 ) Ltd ., 23 , Brabowrine Rd ., Cal- 1. 
2681 Mr. E C . Fairhead C /o I. C . 1, ( India ) Pvt. 

Ltd ., 34 , Chowringhee , Calcutta - 16 . . 
2682 F . C . I . Stewart, 4 , Clive Row , Cal, . 
2683 Fanipragad Singh C / o Howrah Wire , 59 

Canning St., Cal. 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1,34,098 
1 , 40 , 385 
1 ,03, 524 
1 ,99 ,002 


Do , 


2 ,143775 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 ,02 ,038 
1, 74 ,926 


6 , 14 , 745 


2852 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


2684 Mr. G . B . Madden C /o Union Carbide 

( India ) Ltd .," Jeevandeop " T ,Middleton 
Street, Calcutta - i. . 

. 


Individual 


1,05,628 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


1, 51,636 
1,79, 940 
1 , 84 ,760 


Do . 


Do. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,87, 116 
1,60,919 
1 ,47, 099 
1 , 21,482 
1 ,08 ,471 
1 , 77 ,488 


Do . 


10 . 


1 . 1 , 92 , 900 


2685 G . D . Kothari, 8 , India Ex . Place , Cal . . 
2686 Mr. G . K . Robertgon , C /o Jardine 

Henderson Ltd ., 4 , Ciive Row , Cal- I. . 
2687 Ghanashyamdas Kejriwal 1 . , . . 
2688 Gokuldag Bhatia . 
2689 Mr. H . F . Whitehouse clo Gladstone Lyall 

& Co . Ltd ., 4 , Fairlic Place , Calcutta - 1. 
4690 Mr. H .K . S . Lindsay C /o Metal Box Co . 

Ltd ., 59 , Chowringhce Road , Calcutta - I 
2691 H . L . Pync, 14 , India Ex . Place , Calcutta. 
2692 H . M . Helwenhorse . . 
2693 Mr. H . W . G . Stamper, c /o Gillanders 

Arbuthnot & Co . Ltd ., A - 1 , Gillander 
House , Netaji Subhas Rd ., Calcutta . , 


Do. 


1962- 63 


1,08 ,678 


10 . 1 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1963 -64 


1 ,45, 556 
1, 23 , 805 
11, 99 . 73 


Do. 


1962 -63 


1, 19 ,915 


1,51,121 


20 , 


2694 Harinder Singh 
2695 Hargukhdes Balklagendag, 22, Burtolla St., 
Calcutta . 

• 
2696 Mr. HIIT Ah. Hot • • • 
2697 Mr. I. F . Morris , C /o Jardine Henderson 

Ltd ., 4 , Clive Row , Calcutta - 1, . . 


1962 - 63 
1963- 64 
1962 -63 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 22 , 132 
1, 16 , 784 


1,09,982 
1 , 09 ,854 
1 ,00 ,459 


Do. ! 


1962-63 


4 , 50 , 265 


2698 Mr. I. Floisted , C /o Francis Kdia & Co. 

Pvt. Ltd ., i , India Exchange Place , 

Calcutta - I . 
2699 Mr. I. G . Thompson c /o The Chartered 

Bank , 4 ,Neteli Şubhas Road , Calcutta - I . 
2700 I. P . Gandhi, 35- 45 , Canning St., Calcutta 
2701 Indrajit Singh Baid , C /O G . Das (Jute & 

Gunny) Ltd ., 15 , India Exchange Place , 
Calcutta - I . 


DO . 


1963 - 64 
1962-63 


1, 28, 514 
2 , 17 ,920 


Do . 


1962- 63 


1,01, 090 


2702 J. A . Eastwood , C /o Jardine Henderson 

Ltd ., 4 - Clivc Row , Calcutt2 - 1, , , 
2703 L. A . Vanghan Rugsel, Clo. Do. 
2704 J. Carlender 
2705 J . C . Bajaj . . 
2706 J. C . Liang, 4 , Lyong Range , Calcutta , . 
2707 Mr. J. Dick C /o I.C .I. (India ) Pyt, Ltd ., 

34 , Chowringhee Road , Calcutta - 16 . . 


RSS 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 15 ,011 
1 , 24 ,662 
1,01,336 
2 , 29 ,654 
1 , 59 , 136 
2 , 77, 340 


Do . 


1962- 63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1, 38 ,217 
1, 53 , 108 
1944, 268 
1 ,68,467 
1 , 82 , 861 


· 2708 


J. E . Bingham , C /O Braithwhaite & Co. 

India Ltd ., Clive Works , Hide Road , 
Calcutta - 43 . 


Do. 


1962 -63 


( 1,26 ,928 


Bro . 8 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2853 


2709 J. F . Collers, clo Union Carbide (India ) Ltd . 

" Jeeyandeep " I, Middleton St., Calcutta 


Indl , 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 
1966 -67 


1,45,840 
1,63 ,929 
1,82,526 
1, 91, 059 
1,88,660 
1 , 89 , 520 
2 , 12 ,640 


2710 Mr. J. L . Burghard clo Union Carbide 

( India ) Ltd ., " Jeevandeep " I, Middleton 

Street, Calcutta - 16 . 
2711 J. R . J. Nieneyer, C /o Andrew Yule & Co., 

Ltd . 8 , Clive Row , Calcutta - , . 


1965 -66 


1,26 ,005 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1,02 , 095 
1, 10 ,570 
1 ,06 , 130 
1 ,07,810 
4 , 74 ,225 
1 ,68,336 


Do . 


2712 J. S . Cohen 

. . : 
2713 J. S . Madan . 
2714 Mr. J. V . Jardine Patterson , C /o Jardine 

Henderson Ltd ., 4 , Clive Row , Calcutta - 


Do. 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1966 -61 


2 , 86 ,476 
3 , 76 , 567 
4 ,38 , 803 
4 ,45,620 
4 , 78 ,628 


Do. 


2 , 84 ,895 


Do. 
Do. 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1946 - 47 
1947- 48 
1964 -65 
1962-63 


1, 54, 586 
3 , 24 ,031 
4 ,09,678 
1, 19, 885 
3 , 13, 682 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,58,682 
3 , 49 , 921 


1963 - 64 
1962 - 63 
1962-63 


2 , 34 , 995 
1 ,22 ,911 
1,65,887 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 30 ,989 
2 , 17 ,211 


2715 Mr. J . W . L . Rugsel C /o Union Carbide 

( India ) Ltd . , " Jeevan Deep " 1, Middle 

ton Strect, Calcutta - 16 . 
2716 J. W . N . Boldock , C /o Macneil & Barry Ltd . 

2 , Fairlle Place, Calcu :ta - 1. 
2717 Late Jugalkighor Agarwalla . . . . 
2718 K . J. Nicholson, 4 , Fairlie Place , Cal. 
2719 Mr. K . J . Scott, C / o The Britania Blacuit 

Co.Ltd . , 15 , Taratala Road , Calcutta - 53. 
2720 K . K . Adwani, 53 /45, Canning Street , 

Calcutta . . 
2721 Kaji Almas Khan , 
2722 Kalyanji Maizi Selhia , 14 , Netaji Subhag 

Road , Calcutta . 
2723 Kalyan Kr. Dutta . 
2724 Kartick Ch . Law . 
2725 

Khattaa Mavji Sethla , 14 , Netaji Subhas 

Road , Calcutta . 
2726 Krishnalal Sahany , 17 , Ezra St., Calcutta . 
2727 Mr. L . M . Thapar , C /o Karamchand Tha 

par & Bros. Pvt. Ltd ., Thapar House , 

25. Brabowrne Rd., Calcutta - 1, 
2728 Mr. L . R . Patel C /o William Jacks & Co . 

Ltd ., 16, Netaji Subhagh Road , Calcutta 
2729 Lalit Kr. Gopaldas. . 
2730 Legal Heir to M , Carlender. , 
2731 M . L . Pyne, 14 , India Ex. Place , Cal. 
2732 Mr. M . R . W . Steed , C /o Andrew Yule & 

Co ., Ltd ., 8, Clive Row , Calcutte - I, . 
2733 M . V . Jalth2 ,48 ,Ezra St.,Calcutta . 
2734 Mahendra Nath Mukherjee , 16 , India Ex . 

Place , Cal . 
2735 Mani Pd. Singh, Clo Howrah Virc, 59, 

Canning St. Calcutta . 
2736 Motichand Bagrec , 40 / 1 , Shibtolla Street , 

Calcutta , 
2737 Moti Singh Tank , 23/ 24 , R . B . St., Calcutta 
2738 N . C . Bhatla , 24 , N . S . Road , Cal. . . 


1962 -63 


2 ,82 ,907 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 , 89 ,369 
1,02 , 477 
1,83, 370 
1,23,941 


DO 


Do . 


Do. 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1962 - 63 


1 ,04,885 
1 ,06 ,650 
1, 33 ,697 


cutta . 


00 
. 


1961-62 
1962 -63 


1, 73,637 
6 , 14 .746 


Do . 
Do . 


Do . 
Do. 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


1 ,42,813 
1,05,084 
1 ,01, 294 


2854 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


PART II- 


2739 Mr. N . C . Lance C / o Duncan Bros . & Co . 

Ltd . Duncan House , 31, Netaji 
Subhas Rd ., Calcutta - ) . . . . 


Indl. 


1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1954 - 55 


1, 34,420 
1 , 37, 160 
1 ,38, 230 
1 ,38 , 325 
1 , 82 ,203 
3 , 90 ,407 


2740 N . K . Mehta, 71, Canning Street , Calcutta Do. 
2741 Nandalal More, 5 , Clive Row . 

Do. 
2742 Mr. O . T . Jenkins, C /o Balmer Lawrie & 

Co. Ltd .,21,NetajiSubbes Rd ., Calcutta- I. Do. 


1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


I , I1, 772 
1 ,24 , 991 
1 , 23 ,149 


2743 Omprakash Mohta & Ors ., 29, Strand Rd . 
Calcutta . 

. . . . . 


H . U . F . 


1958 - 59 
1950 - 60 
1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 


2 , 00 , 000 
2 , 00 , 000 
2 , 00 ,000 
2 , 00 , 000 
1, 36 ,230 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


2744 P . A . Basil. 
2745 Mr. P . Bhattacha tee , C /o " Westing House." 

Saxby Farmer Pvt . Ltd . , 17 , Convent 

Road , Calçytta - 14 . 
2746 P . C . Jairath 

Ꭰo. 
2747 P . C . Sbyam 
2748 P . K . Chockey, 4 , Lyons Range, Cal. i Do. 
2749 P . Lokumal , . . 
2750 P . Neogi, 4 , Lyons Range , Cal. 

Do . 
2750 R . Colema i c /o I . C . I. ( India ) Pvt. Ltd ., Individual. 

34 , Chowringhec , Cal- 16 . 
2752 R . F . Kettle , C /o W . S . Crascwell & Co : 
( P ) Ltd . , 

. . . . Do. 
2753 R . L . & Co. Prop. Sri R . L . Bhageva i 
2754. R . K . Agarwalla , 12 , Waterloo St ., Cal. 


1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 , 97, 273 
1 ,64 ,318 
1 ,05, 711 
3 . 92,004 
1 ,22 ,667 
1, 21,435 
2 , 19 , 190 
1 , 54 , 123 


Do. 


1, 91, 030 
1 , 17 ,811 
1 , 33 ,677 
1 , 16 ,326 
1 ,33, 000 
II , 14 ,325 

1 ,61,617 
3 , 90 ,487 


DO 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 

Do. 
1966 - 67 
1954 - 55 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


2755 R . K . Malhotra , 18, N . S . Road , Calcutta . 
2756 R . N . Sen , B - 4 , Clive Bldg . Cal. 
2757 Radhukiasen More , 5 , Clive Row , Cel. . 
2758 Rajindra Bahadur Singh , 3 , Hancy Lanc, 
Calcutta . . 

. . . . 


Do . 


Do , 


Do. ! 


1, 71, 180 
1,51,695 


2759 Rajindra Singh Singhi & Ors., 15,Gariabat 
Road , Calcutta . 

H . U . F . 
2760 Raſpati Singh , 3, Haney Lane, Cal. Individual. 
2761 Rashik Verjiban , 48 ; Ezra St., Calcutta . . Do. 
2762 Rupchand Bagrec, 40 / 1, Shibtolla St., Cal 
cutta , 

Do. 
2763 Mr. S. c Gladstone, c /o Gulanders 

Arbuthnot& Co. Ltd . Gillander House , 
14 ,Netaji Subhas Rd ., Calcutta - 1. 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 


1 , 39 ,572 
1 , 33 , 140 
1 , 17 , 985 
1 , 30 , 357 


1 ,40, 924 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1966 - 67 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 20 ,896 
1, 48 , 065 
1 ,64, 946 
1,47,997 
1 ,84 , 340 
1, 72 , 379 
1 , 89 , 170 
1,67,859 
2 , 31, 985 


Do. 


2764 S . K . Ganguly , 4, Lyons Range, Calcutta . 
2765 S . K . Laheri, 12 , Ciive Row , Calcutta . . 
2766 $ . L . Pasari, 16 , India Ex . Place , Cal. . 
2767 Mr. S . M . Petric C /o Gillanders Arbuthnot 

& Co . Ltd ., “ Gillander House " , Netaji 

Subhıs Road, Calcutta . 
2768 S . R . Jhunjhuwalla , 9 , Ezra St., Cal. 
2769 S . $ , singhapia , . 

. . 


Do. 


Do. 


1962-63 
1946 - 47 
1962 -63 


1, 49 ,994 
( 2 ,85, 566 
1, 14 , 094 


Do. 


Sea . ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2855 


2855 


1962 -63 


1,06, 110 


Do. 


1954 - 55 


5 , 74 , 176 


1961-62 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


1 , 25,431 
2 , 17 , 211 
7 , 17 ,211 


Do. 


Do 


1962 - 63 
1962 - 63 


2 ,49, 804 
2 , 53 ,477 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 


1 , 09 , 831 
1, 11, 145 
2 ,89 ,066 


2770 Sankarlal Dhanuka, 180 , Chittaranjan 
Avenue , Calcutta , 

Individual. 
2771 Shubhkaran Jhunjhunwalla , s , Clive Row , 

Calcutta . 
2772 ShyamdasMundra C /o SriNurshing Sahay , 

Madangopal Elec. Co . Pyt . Ltd ., 55 , 
Ezra Street, Calcutta . 

Do . 
2773 Sitaram Sahany , 17 , Ezra St., Calcutta , 
2774 Sriram Şahany, 17, Ezra St. , Calcutta . 

Do . 
2775 Sukumar Banerjee , Plo M /s .Howrah Trad 

ing Corpp ., 20 , N . Ş . Boad , Calcutta . . 
2776 T . C . Martin , 
3777 T . G . Hardinge, Clo First National City 

Bank , 9 , BrabourneRd. , Calcutta . . Do. 
2778 T . R . Motwani. . . 

Do , 
2179 Tarapada Bose, 13/ A , St.George, lerrace, 
Calcutta 

Do. 
2780 Thakur Kheswar Singh Prop , Saramgerb 
Coal Co . (Dhori). 

Do . 
2781 Thakurdas Muddra , 10 , Pollock St. Cal. 

Do. 
2782 Uira Devi, 9 , Ezra St., Cal. . . . 

Do . 
2783 V . C . Kapoor . 

Do. 
2784 V . Srinivasan , 9 /6 , Fern Road , Calcutta . Do. 
2785 Mr. V . Smeuser , Clo Francis Klein & Co . 

Pvt. Ltd ., 1, India Exchange Place , 

Calcutta . 
2786 Shri V . V . Parikh , C / o J. Thomas & Co ., 

8 , Mission Row Exta . Calcutta , . 
2787 Varjiban Pranjiban , 48 , Ezra Street, Cal. . 
2788 Vedprakash Malhotra , 18 , N . S . Road ,Cal. 
2789 Mr. W . A . C . H . Bosschort Clo Philips India 

Ltd ., Philips House , 7. Justice Chandra 
Mabal Rd ., Cal . 20 . 


1962-63 


1, 22 , 394 


1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


4 , 18 ,290 
4 , 20 ,805 
1, 56 , 914 
2 , 12 ,800 
1 , 14 ,034 


1962 -63 


1,23, 905 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1965- 66 


1, 24 ,480 
1 ,86 ,604 
1 ,53, 854 


Do. 


Do. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


1 , 24 , 500 
1 , 24 , 702 
1 , 29 ,250 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 


2 , 00 ,292 
1,47, 120 


2790 Mr. W . P . BristwhistleC /OICI( India ) Pvt. 

Ltd . , 34 , Chowranghco , Cal. -16 . . 
1791 Mr. W . W . Shearer , C /o A . J. Main & Co . 

Ltd ., 16 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta- I 


Do. 


1, 59 ,644 


1962- 63 
1963- 64 
1966 - 67 


Jo 


1 , 26 , 181 
1 , 26 , 131 


Do. 


1 ,79 ,333 


1962-63 
1966 - 67 
1962-63 


3 , 20 ,900 


West Bengal — III. 
2792 Late A . Hamid 2 / A , Kali Shome St., Cal . 
2793 A . P . Trevor, C /o M /s . Sinclair & Co ., 7 , 

Wellesly Place , Cal , 
2794 Jb . AbdulGaffar (Decd .) L /R . Md. Jami 

luddin , 42 , Strand Rd ., Cal. 
2795 AbdulMazib Cassam , 15 , Zakaria Şt., Cal. 
2796 Abdus Samad , Dhullian , Murshidabad . 
2797 Abhiram Mullick , 129 , Bidhan Sarani, Cal. 
2798 Arjundas Talwar , 7 , Colootola St. , Cal, . 
2799 Aswini Kumar Khan , 49 , Strand Rd., Cal. 
2800 Atul Ch . Sadhukhan , Cal. 
2801 Atul Ch . Saha, 69 /70 , Lower Chitpur Rd ., 

Cal. , 
2802 B . C . Samsukha , C /o Indian Silk House , 

Tower Block , College St.,Market, Cal. . 


& 
CARRỄ 


Do. 
Do . 


1964 -65 
1962- 63 
1961-62 
1965- 66 


3 , 54 , 373 
2 ,64,496 
2 , 32, 998 
3 , 26 ,000 
1 ,49,821 
1,58,994 
1 ,40 , 244 


Do. 


1,05 ,543 
1.06. 121 


1964 -65 


2856 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


5 


Indl 
Do , 


1962- 63 
1963 - 64 


1 ,06 ,823 
1, 10 ,089 


Do. 
Do. 


3 ,74, 909 
1,22,516 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 

Do . 
1962-63 


Do . 


1 ,04, 468 
1, 84,496 
1 , 16 , 171 


Do. 


1 ,60, 501 
1 , 68 , 546 


Do . 
Do . 
Do . 


1961-62 
1962 - 63 
1961-62 


1 ,32,667 
1,06,240 
2 , 52 ,011 


1, 09, 553 


1962- 63 


Do. 
1965- 66 
1962 -63 


2, 48 , 397 
1 ,38 ,726 
2 , 28,686 
1 ,03, 948 


2803 B . D .Mohta ,26, P . K . Tagore St., Cal. 
2804 B . J . Almera , 38 , Colootola Şt., Cal. 
2805 B . K . Banorjee , Executor to the Estate of 

Late P . C . Mitra , . 
2806 B . K .Gooyee, 68 - E , N . S .Rd., Cal, 
2807 B . K . Samgukha, C /o Indian Silk House , 

Tower block , College St. Calcutta , , 
2808 B . M . Bazaz , 67 / B , M . G . Rd., Cal. . 
2809 B . N . Kasora , 243, C . R . Avenue, Cai, . 
2810 B . S . Agarwalla , 46 , U . Circular Road , 

Calcutta . 
2811 B . Salgal, i. Sunyet Sen St., Cel. 
2812 Babulal Jaiswal, 77 , Kailash Bose St., 

Calcutta . 
2813 Badripd.Biwinwala,9 ,Jagmohan Mullick 

Lane, Cal. 
2814 Baluddin Ram , 5 , Banchharam Akrur Lane , 

Calcutta . 
2815 Bajringlal Dhanuka, 2 , Kali Krishna 

Tagore St., Cal. . . . . 
2816 Balai Ch . Bl3w19, 84 , Jatindra Mohın 

Avenue, Calcutta . 
2817 Ballavdas Bhagwanbhai Patel, 114 /3 , Rup 

chand Roy St. , Calcutta , . . 
2818 Balram Roy , 133 - A , Southern Avenue , Cal. 
2819 Banwarilal Sinhania , 16 , Pagayaputty St. 

Calcutta . 
2820 Basdeo Gocnka ,Karta of Daliram Arjundas, 

13 , R ipchand Roy St ., Calcutta . 
2821 Basdeo Shaw , 19 , Goabagan St. , Cal. . 
2822 Bettledas N . Shah . Calcutta . . 
2823 Bhagwandas TalewalTrustee to the Estate of 

Purusatham Bhagwandas . . 
2824 Bhagwandas Lohia, 174 , Harrison Rd., 

Calcutta , 
2825 BhagwatiPd . Şinhania, 8, Shambu Mullick 

Lane, Calcutta . 
2826 Bhairoraten Damani, 88 , Jatindra Mohan 

Avenue, Cal - 4 . 
2827 Bhairidan Bal, 23, Amratole Lane, Cal. : 
2828 Champalal Jajodia, 207 , C . R . Avenue 

Calcutta , 
2829 

Chandi Charan Paul, Subal Ch. Paul & 

Netal Charan Paul, Executors to the 
Estatc of Late Harimohan Paul, 92 

Sovabazar St., Cal. . 
2830 Chandi Ch . Bose 194, B. B . Ganguly St., 

Calcutta . 
283r Chand Ratan Binani,ii,Sovaram Bysack 

St., Calcutta , 
2832 Chand Ratan Mohta , 65 , šir Hariram 

Goenka , St. , Cal . 
2833 D . P . Ghose , 3 , Jora Bagan St., Calcutta . 
2834 Dayalji Bhanji, 12/13 , Amratolla St., Cal. 
2835 Deo Jyotl, P - II , New Howrah Bridge, 

Approach Road , Calcutta , . 
2836 Dharakanath Shaw , 123 / 2 , U . CircularRd. 


2 ,69, 175 
1,08,621 
1 ,56,949 


1 ,32 ,504 
2 , 23 ,917 
2 , 13,368 
6 ,27 ,790 
1 , 24 ,805 


1 , 32 , 500 


Do . 


1 , 05 , 427 


Do. 


1,06 ,353 
1,51, 053 


1961-62 


Do. 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1964 -65 


2 , 15 , 994 
1, 18 ,631 
1 ,24,283 
1 , 74 ,479 


2 , 56 , 379 


1962 -63 

Do. 


Do. 


1, 08, 577 


2837 Dhenu Devi Agarwal , Prop . Das Steel 

Industries , 19 , Maharshi Debendra Rd , 

Calcutta , 
2838 Smt. Durgadevi, L . R . of B . K . Poddar , s , 

Quins Park , Calcutta . . . 


Do. 


Do, 


4 , 27, 391 


Do. 


1 ,41, 153 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA . 18 . 1890 


2857 


2839 D igaprosad G ipta , 179 , Balaram Dey 

Street 
2840 D irga Prosad Lal, 6 , Noor Md. Lane , 

Calcutta , 


Indl. 


1962-63 


2 ,07, 795 


Do. 


1 ,46 , 272 


1961-62 


1, 26 ,053 


HUF. 


1962-63 


1 , 38 , 205 


Indl. 


Do. 


2841 Dwarka Nath Khetry , 27B , Camac St., Cal. 
2812 Estate Gopendra Nath Choudhury (Decd .) 

4 , Bankshall St. , Calcutta . . 
2843 Ganashyam Dag Agarwalla, 14 , Rupchand 

Roy St ., Calcutta . . 
2814 Ganesh Ch . Saha , 19 , Armanian Street, 

Calcutta , 
2845 Ganga Progad Susankarmal, 12 / 1, Ghosh 

Lanc , Calcutta . 
2846 Gökuldas Binani, 38 , Strand Road , Calcutta 
2847 Gopal Narayan Seth , 8 , Tarachand Dutta 

St., Calcutta . 


1 ,71 ,531 
2 , 53,397 
2 , 50,033 


Do . 

Do . 
1963 -64 
1962-63 


HUF . 
Indl. 


1 , 93 , 391 


11,82 ,412 


HUF. 
Indi. 


2 , 56 , 379 
1 , 13 , 816 
2 , 33 ,804 
1 , 21 , 758 


2848 Gyan Jyoti, P - II, New Howrah Bridge , 

Approach Road , Calcitta . . 
2849 H . L . Shaw & Ors . ,77A Amherst St ., Cal . 
2850 Haribux Lohia , 174 , Harrison Rd. , Cal. . 
2851 Haridas Shaw , 76 , Amherst St ., Cal. . 
2852 Haroon Neviwala , Prop . Scrap Mart , Clo . 

A . Gaffar Shakor Neviwala , 15 , Zakaria 

St., Cal ( 1st Fl. ) . . 
2853 Sm . Hem Kaur, 119 , M . D . Street, 
2854 HemrajGolchha , 
2355 IiwiniProsad Jagodis , 160, Cross Street 

Calcutta . 
2855 J. D . G ipta , 62, N . S . Road , Calcutta. . 
2857 Jagannath Agarwalla ,Prop.of M /s .Ramji 

dis Jagannath , 4 ,Naryan Prosad , Babu 
Lanc, Calcutta . . 

. . 
2858 Jagdish Pd . Siphania , 17 , Paguyaputty S 

Calcutta , 
2859 Jagannath Tew , 46 , Muktaram Babů St. 


2 ,64 ,496 
1, 24 , 153 
2 ,65, 970 


Do. 


1 , 38 , 961 
1 , 23 ,207 


1961 -62 


1, 39 ,542 


1962-63 
1953 - 54 
1954 - 55 
1956 - 57 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1, 00 ,616 
1 , 36 ,238 
1 ,22, 502 
1, 50 ,000 
1 , 50 , 000 
1, 50 ,000 
1, 50 , 000 


, 1,72 ,600 


. 


. 


. 


1 , 11 , 270 
.. 1, 56 , 909 


1 , 07,621 


2859 Jaskırın Kundalia , , Armenian St., 

Calcutta . 
2861 Jawaharlal Shaw , 43/ 14 , Strand Road , 

Calcutta 
2862 Tethala 

Jethalal N . Shab 
2863 Jit Bahadur Shaw , 19 , Goabagan Strect, 

Calcutta 
2864 Jogladar Singh , ioB , Mechuabazár St., 

Calcutta 
2865 K . K . Sukharia, 43 /44 , Cotton Street 

Calcutta 
2866 Kalubaba Lalchand , 45 , Armenian St., 

Calcutta . . . . 
2867 Kalyan Kı. Bhowmick , 41 /1, Ballygaunge 

Place , Calcutta 
2868 Kamalkanta Snai . 
2869 Kamal Singh Rampuria & Others , Katra 

Kamal Singh Rampuria , 10 , Clive, 
Row , Calcutta . , . ; 


Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
1962 -63 
1963-64 
1962-63 


2 ,01, 000 
11,81, 926 


. 


H . U . F . 


1 , 28,917 
1, 09, 934 


• 


indi. 


Do. 


1,09,205 
1, 11, 510 


H . U . F . 


1961-62 


. 


1,55,911 


2858 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II – 


Indi. 


2 ,75,249 


1 , 04 , 137 


2870 Kanallal Dharpadral, 7 /1 , Nafar Kundu 

Road , Clacutta 
2871 Smt. Kanchan K . Dasi, 2 , Mira Lanc , 

Calcutta 
2872 Kaniy Lalli, 15 /2, Armenian Street , 

Calcutta 
2873 Kantilal Vithaldas, 94, Lower Chitpur 

Road , Calcutta 
2874 Karamchand Durgada 

Calcutta 
2875 Kedarnath Binani, 161 ,Muktaram Babu 

St ., Calcutta 
2876 Krishnadas Agarwalla, 23, Garanhata 

St., Calcutta 
2877 Krishna Kinkar Nandy, Shobait to Srec 

I war Lakshmi Janardan Thakur, 44B , 

Kali Krishna Tagorc St., Calcutta 
2878 Krishna K . Jaipuria , 51, Vivekananda Rd. , 

Calcutta . . . . . 


1962 -63 
1954 - 55 
1963 - 64 
1962 - 63 

Do . 
Do. 
Do. 


1 , 34 , 945 
1,54, 235 
1, 07. 948 


1 , 00 ,724 


3, 56 ,029 


1961 -62 


1 , 59 ,445 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


1 ,01, 201 
2 , 37 ,973 


1 , 17 ,498 


1962 -63 

Do . 


Do . 


3 ,43,954 
8 , 16 , 287 
4 ,83, 341 


1962 -63 

Do . 


Do. 


1, 50 , 500 
1,13,959 
1 , 19 ,283 


1961-62 


1962 -63 


Do. 


3 ,29 ,317 
1 , 30 , 566 


Do . 


1 , 96 ,898 
1 ,41,959 


4 ,68 ,496 


2879 Kubar Ram , 77, Kailash Bose Street, 

Calcutta 
2880 Kumar Biswanath Roy, 29, B . T . Rd ., 

Calc itta 
2881 Kumar Jagadish Ch . Sinha, 64 , Belgachia 

Rd ., Clacutta . 
2882 LakshmiNarayan Agarwalla ,180 ,Mahatma 

Gandhi Rd ., Calcutta 
2883 Madanlal Jajodia , 207, C . R . Avenue, 

Calcutta 
2884 Madanlal Khandelwal, 13 , Portuguese 

Church St., Calcutta 
2885 Mahadeo Pd ., Dhanania , 132, Cotton St., 

Cacutta . 
2886 Miniharsha Jyoti , P - II, New Howrah 

Bridge , Approach Rd ., Calcutta , 
2887 

Manikchand Banthia , Calcutta 
2888 Manik Devi Kochar , 8 , Amratola St., 
Calcutta 

. . " 
2889 Md. Akhtar Hussain 
2890 Md. Belaluddin Miah , Dhullian , 

Murshidabad 
2891 Md . Hassan Miah , Dhulllari,Murshida 

bad . , 
2892 Mhabir Prosad Podder , 214 , Chittaranjan 

Avenue , Calcutta 
2893 Monillal Shah , 32 . N .S. Road , Calcutta : 
2894 Mulchand Chabra , Prop . M /s . Kalilal 

Mulchand 
2895 Mingalal Shaw , 8 / D , Akrur Dutta Lanc, 

Calcutta 
2896 Muralidhar Gajanand , 2 /2A , Harington 

St ., Calcutta 
2897 N . K . Kbeltan , L . R . , of Hiralal 

Khaitan , 135 , Cannjog St., Calcutta , 
2898 NabaKumar Singh , Joy Kumar Dudhoria , 
Alimgonj, Murshidabad 

H .U . F . 
2899 Nandalal Agarwalla , 32 /33, Sır Hariram 
Goenka St., Clacutta 

Indi. 
2900 Nandalal Kethari, 38 , Colootola St ., 

Calcutta 
2901 Narasingh Rao Upadhaya , 35 , Tarachand 

Dutt St. , Calcutta 
2902 Dr, Naresh Ch .Ghosh , 52 , Beadon St., 

Calcutta . . . . . 


Do . 
Do. 


2 ,32, 998 


1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


9 ,63, 861 
2 , 95,673 


DO . 


5 ,84 , 506 


Do. 


Do. 


1 ,30 , 390 
1, 27, 068 
2 ,66 ,725 


Do. 


1994 , 662 


1 ,80,278 


1958 - 59 
1962 -63 
1963-64 
1962-63 


1, 58 ,042 
1 ,51,790 


Do . 


1 ,97 ,265 


SEC . $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2859 


. 


Indi. 


8 , 12,513 


1962- 63 
1966 -67 


1 ,92 ,604 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 


1 , 30 ,874 
1 ,41,765 


Do . 
1691-62 


1 ,69,218 
2 , 18 ,861 


1 ,55, 500 
1 , 19 ,423 


2903 Nathmal Bhantia 
2904 Nathamal Pugalia, 68 /69 , Khangrapatty 

Street ; 
2905 Smt. Nivabati Bhandla , 44 , Amherst 

Row , Culcutta, 
2906 P . P . Jaiswal, 8 , Corowallis St., Cal. 
2907 P . V . Madhvani, 14 , Noormal Lohia 

Lane, Calcutta . 
2908 Pannalál Bajaj (Decd .) 64 , Balmukund 

Maccar Road , Calcutta 
2909 Pangalal Jajodla , 207, C . R . Avenue , 
Calcutta 

. . 

. 
2910 Pagnalal Khetwat 
2911 Peary Charan Law , I, Bechu Chatterjee 

St. , Calcutta 
2912 Prahladrai Lohia , 174, Harrison Road , 

Calcutta 
2913 Provash Ch . Chatterjee, Beldange, 

Murshidabad 
2914 Pc. Banwarilal Sharma, 156C , Mabatma 

Gandhi Road , Calcutta 
2915 Punamchend Baid , 7 , Swallow Lane , 

Calcutta 
2916 Puspadevi Bharat & Ors. 7 , Viveka 

nanda Rd ., Calcutta 
2917 R . A . V . Prendugast , Clo M /s . Sinclair & 

Co., 7 , Wellesly Placc , Calcutta . 
2918 R . P . Jaiswal, 8 , Cornwallis St., Calcutta 
2919 R . P . Poddar , 18 , Mallick St., Calcutta 
2920 Radha Deyl Agarwalla , 114 , Chittaranjan 

Avenue, Calcutta (Ist Floor ) 
2921 Radha Mohan Sinhanjai Pagayapatty 

St., Calcutta . , , 
2922 Raja Kamela Ranjan Roy , Cossimbazar, 

Murshidabad 
2923 Rameshwarlal Jatia , 137, Cotton 

Calcutta 


1962 -63 

Do , 
Do . 

Do. 
1965 -66 


1,03,884 
2,24, 167 
1 ,08 , 168 


2 ,59 ,517 


1,22,025 


H . U . F . 


1962-63 
1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


1 , 28 ,017 


Indi: 


1 ,67 ,740 
1,40 , 766 
1, 14 , 151 


Do . 


Do 


Do. 


Do . 


H . U . F . 
Indl 


1, 01,695 
1, 02, 375 
1, 40,648 
1 ,51, 767 
2 ,02 ,034 
1, 59 ,870 


1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1964 -65 


5 ,81,037 


1962 -63 
1961-62 
1962- 63 


2 ,64 ,279 
1 ,00 ,863 


2924 Ram Ch . Goyal, 10 , Armenian Street, 

Calcutta 
2925 Ram Gopal Khemka , 20 , Maharshi 

Debendra Rd., Clacutta 
2925 Ramnath Kapoor, 45/46, K .P . Street, 

Calcutta 
2927 s. C . Samgukha , C /o indian Silk House , 

Tower Block , College St. Market, 

Clacutta . 
2928 S. K . Bansal,Clo Marble Co.,6,Brabourne 

Road , Calcutta 
2929 S. M . Asraf , 17, Bibi Bagan Lanc, 

Calcutta 
2930 S . N . P . Jaiswa , 8, Cornwallis Street , 

Calcutta 
2931 S . P . Jaiswal, 8 , Cornwallis St. , Calcutta 
2932 S . P . Jatia, 21, Rupchand Roy St., 

Calcutta , , , , 
2933 Sampat K . Sethia , 38 , BanarashiGhoshe 

Street , Calcutta 
2934 Sanat Kumar Bhattacharya , 37 , B . K . Pal 

Avenue, Calcutta 
2935 Sanjib Kr. Chowdhury, 21/ 1, Hyat Khan 

Lane , Calcutta 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962-63 


1, 00 ,357 
1, 18,216 
2 ,22 , 256 


1 ,49 ,765 
1 ,41,965 


Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
1964 - 65 


1 , 18 , 866 
1 , 12, 263 


1 ,49 ,631 


1962-63 

Do. 
Do . 


1, 11, 155 


1 , 50 , 9363 


2860 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II-- 


I 


4 


5 


. 


Indl. 


1962 - 63 


Do. 


2936 Santosh Pd . Sinhania, 16, Pagayaputty 

Street, Calcutta 
2937 Sanwarmal Prahladka , 10 , Jackson 

Lane, Calcutta 
2938 Sardarmal Kankaria , 7 / 1 , Babulal Lane, 

Clacutta 
2939 

Satyanarain Choudhury, 171, Mahatma 

Gandhi Rd., Clacutta 
2940 Satyaranjan Roy Choudhury (Dey ), ii, 

Umakanta Sen Lane, Calcutta , 
2941 Satyayama Devi 
2942 Smt. Savitri Devi Jatia , 137, Cotton 

St ., Calcutta 
2943 Sayed Hatim Ali , 149 , M .G . Rd., 
Calcutta 

- 


1,01, 723 
1 ,07. 386 
1, 13,616 
3 ,60 ,416 


1961-62 
1962 -63 
1961- 62 
1962 - 63 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1, 22 ,347 
1 , 11 , 700 


1 ,06 ,042 


1, 33 , 103 


2944 Sayed Zaver Ali, Fateh Ali , 3 /5, Raj 

Mohan Street, Calcutta 
2945 Shew Kumar Jatia (Minor ) 137, Cotton 

St., Calcutta 


1, 15 ,859 


1962 -63 
1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 
1962 -63 


1 ,40 ,601 
1 , 12 ,418 
1, 21,758 


Do . 


2946 Shibdas Shaw , 76, Amherst St. 
2947 Shiv Prosad Agarwalla , P - 10 ,New Howrah 

Bridge, Approach Rd. , Calcutta 
2948 Sitaram Agarwalla , 158 , Jamnalal Bajaj 

St ., Calcutta , 
2949 Sitaram Chamaria, 16, Pagayaputty si. 

Calcutta 
2950 Sohanlal Dudwalla, 5A , Muktaram Babu 

St ., Calcutta 


Do . 


" 


2 ,30 , 183 
1,40, 194 
1, 75 ,000 


Do . 


1954 -55 
1961 -62 


1 ,14 , 965 
1 , 10 , 209 


1 ,30 , 500 


1962-63 

Do . 
Do. 


1 ,13, 934 


1 ,37,632 


Do. 
Do . 


1 , 38 ,039 
1 , 54 , 199 
1 , 19 ,506 


1961- 62 


2991 Sohanlal Jajodia , 207 , C .R . Avenue, 

Calcutta 
2952 Sreeram Tekriwal, 56 , Chittaranjan 

Avenue , Calcutta 
2953 Sudhir Champati, 169 , Vivekananda 

Road , Calcutta 
2954 Dr. Sukumar Rory , Prop . of Economic 

Home Pharmacy , 89 , N .S . Road , 

Calcutta 
2955 Sundarlal Golchha 
2956 Smt. Suraj Devi Bagri, 32 , Nimtala Ghat 

St ., Calcutta 
2957 TanagukhralMahata , P - 10 , New Howrah 

Bridge Approach Rd . , Calcutta 
2958 Tara Chand Rindawala , 6 , Hans Pukuria 

Ist Lane, Calcutta 
2959 Taraknath Kar Others, L /R of Late 

Paresh Ch . Kar. 
2960 Tolaram Agarwalla , 67/ 19, Strand Road 

Calcutta . . . 
2961 Polaram Daga 
2962 Tustacharan Laha, Old China Bazar , 

St., Cslcutta 
2963 V . K . Khemaka, 34, New Road , Alipore , 

Calcutta . . 
Calcutta (Central) 
2964 B . N . Elias, 1& 2, Old Court House 

Corner, Calcutta 


1962 -63 
1961-62 
1962 -63 


1,63,215 
1,37,00I 


2 , 15 , 843 


Do. 


Do . 


2 , 77 , 710 
1,03,872 


3 ,45, 744 


Do. 
1965 -66 


1 , 19 , 464 


3 


1963-63 
1963 -64 
1964-65 
1962-63 


2 , 06 ,723 
1 ,29 ,067 
1,07, 215 


2965 Bedri Prosad Agarwalla , 4 , Lyong Range, 

alcutta 


1 , 14 , 568 


SEQ. 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2861 


4 


5 


1962-63 
1963-64 


1,69,174 
1 , 19 ,000 


1962- 63 


1 , 18, 795 


Do . 


2 ,43,000 


Do. 


4 , 46 , 164 


Do. 

Do. 
1964 -65 


1 ,01, 189 
1 ,40 , 983 
19 ,94 ,792 


2966 Badri Progad Poddar, Karta of M /s . Badri 

Prosad Poddar, 18 . Rabindra Sarani, 
Calcutta 

H . U . F . 
2967 Balbhadradas Bangur , 65, Hariram 
Goenka St., Calcutta . 

Industrial 
2968 Bejoy Kı, Bhuwalka , 178, Mahatma 

Gandhi Road , Calcutta 
2969 Benugopal Bangur, 65, Hariram Goenka 

St., Calcutta 
2970 Bhanwarlal Jain , 56 , Netaji Subhas 

Road ., Calcutta 
2971 Biswanath Bhartia , 35, Netaji Subhas 

Rd., Calcutta 
2972 Blowanath Bhartia & Others Do. ; H . Ú . F . 
2973 Biju Patnaik , Anand Bhawan , Cuttack Industrial 
2974 Budharmal Khaitan , 161 / 1 , Mahatma 

Gandhi Road , Calcutta . 
2975 C . L . Bajoria , 212 , Bidhan Sarani, Calcutta 
2976 C . N , Brodewald , 6 , Lyons Range , Calcutta 
2977 Champalad Baid , 2 , Raja Woodmunt 

St. , Calcutta 
2978 Champalal Banthia Do. . 
2979 Smt. Chandra Kanta Agarwalla , 4, 

Lyons Range , Calcutta , 
2980 D . M . Jaffrey , 6 , Lyons Range, Calcutta 
2981 Smt. Draupadi Devi Khaitan , 4 , Qucen s 

Park , Calcutta 
2982 Daulal Phombra , 56 , Bartalla St, Calcutta 
2983 K . C . Laul, C / o Grand Samithy Works, 

T . Girish Ghosh Rd ., Belure, Howrah 


1962-63 

Do 
Do. 


£2 , 20 ,062 
2 ,42,853 
1,45,000 


2 ,01, 988 


1 ,49, 665 


1 ,02, 971 
1,43 ,000 


3 ,81 ,431 
1 , 15, 988 


Do. 


3, 09 ,851 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


1 , 44 , 550 
1 , 18 ,736 


1962 -63 


4 , 54 ,891 


Do. 
1966 -67 


5 ,67 ,817 
1, 97,993 


2984 Ganga Saran Sharina , I , Gibson Lane , 

Calcutta 
2985 Gazanand Khaitan , 96 , Garden Reach 

Road , Calcutta 
2986 Ghanshyamdas Binani, 38, Strand Ra., 

Calcutta 
2987 Smt. Gini Devi, 34 , New Alipore Ra., 

Calcutta 
2988 GobindlalBangur, 65 , Hariram Goenka 

St., Calcutta . . 
2989 Gokulchand Bangur, Do. : . 
2990 Gyan Patnaik , Anand Bhawan , Cuttack . 
2996 Hargobind Khaitan , 161/ 1, Mahatma 

Gandhi Rd. , Calcutta 
2992 Harikishan Fomra , 56 , Bartalla Street, 
Calcutta 

. . 
2993 Indu Jain , II, Clive Row , Calcutta . 


1962 -63 


Do . 


3 , 35,000 
3 , 54 ,000 


Do. 


1 , 34 , 125 


Do. 


2,63, 302 


Ꭰo . 
1955 - 56 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


2 , 51, 021 
1, 92 ,301 
1 ,84 ,822 
1, 90 , 373 


2994 J. N . Elias , 1 & 2, Old Court House 

Corner, Calcutta . . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


2 ,88 ,699 
1 , 13 ,775 


2995 Jb . Md. Serajuddin , P - 16 , Bentinck St. 

Calcutta 
2996 Joginder Singh Atwal, Atwal Nagar, 

Assansol 


1962 -63 

Do. 


6 ,67, 588 
1,90 ,862 


2862 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II 


- 


Industrial 


1962-63 

Do. 
Do, 


1,25 ,317 
45 ,05 ,211 
2 , 49 ,698 


2997 Smt. Jamuna Devi Podder, 18 , Rabindra 
Sarand, Calcutta 

. 
2998 Jit Paul, 135 , Canning St., Calcutta 
2999 Kanayalal Fomra 392 , Mint St., Madras 
3000 Md . Khalllur Rahman & Others Legal 

heirs - - Representatives of Md. Sams 
uddin (deceased ) P - 16 , Bentinck St., 

Calcutta , 
3001 Khemji Hansraj. 165, Lower 

Chitpur Rd ., Calcutta . . 


Do . 


H .UT. 


1944 -45 
1945 - 46 
1946 - 47 
1947- 48 
1948 - 49 
1949 - 50 
1950 - 51 
1962-63 


1 ,59 ,314 
1 , 26 ,079 
3 , 10 , 737 
1 , 26 , 795 
1 ,41,850 
2 , 71 ,711 
12 ,99,048 
3 ,98 ,630 
1, 17 ,665 


Do . 


4 ,53 , 034 . 
2 , 41,909 
2 ,49 ,400 


3 ,35 ,905 
2 ,52 ,084 
2 ,25 ,061 
1 , 68 , 236 
2 , 52 ,084 
1,09, 843 
2 ,20 ,476 


Do , 


3002 Kisenlal Poddar, 25 , Netaji Sulhas Rd., 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
3003 M . C . Roy , Suite No. 21, Harrington 

Mansion , 8 , Harrington St., Calcutta 

- 16 
3004 Madanlal Fomra , 392 , Mint St., Madras 
3005 Manulal Fomra , Do , 
3006 Mangilal Rungta, P - 16 , Kalkar Street, 

Calcutta 
3007 Md. Ekramul Hoque, P - 16 , Bentinck 

Street , Calcutta 
3008 Md. Habibur Rehman , 73A , Ganesh 

Ch , Avonue, Calcutta 
3009 Md. Latifur Rehman , P - 16 , Bentinck 

St., Calcutta . 
2010 Md. Majahurul Haque, Do . 
3011 Monoharlal Agarwalla, 4 , Lyons Range , 

Calcutta 
3012 Mukhalal Khaltan , 161/ 1, Mahatma 

Gandhi Road , Calcutta 
3013 Mukaodlal Fomra , 392, Mint St., 

Madras . 
3014 N . K . Jalan , 8 Dalhousie Sq . East, . ” 

Calcutta 
3015 N . K . Jhajharia ,22 , Chittaranjan Avenue, 

Calcutta 
3016 Jarinder Singh Atwal, Atwal 

Nagar , Asangol 
3017 Naresh Kumar Agarwalla,4 , Lyons Range, 

Calcutta . 
3018 Narsinghdas Bangur, 65 , Hariram Goenka 

St ., Calcutta 
3019 Premraj, Daulatram , 159, Chittaranjan » 
Avenue, Calcutta 

H .U . F . 
3020 Purusottamaas Benegopal, 65, Hariram 

Goçaka St., Colcutta 
3021 R . K . Birla , 15, India Exchange Place, 
Chlcutta 

Industrial 
3022 R . V . Jacob , 1 & 2 Old Court House 

Street, Calcutta 
3025 Radha Kison Chamria , 1, Gullen Place, 

Howrah 
3024 Bamanlal Phumbra, 56 , Burtolla Street, 

Calcutta 
3025 Ram Kissen Pomra , 392 , Mint st. " 

Madras 
3026 Ramananda Agarwalla,4 LyonsRange, 

Calcutta 


1951- 52 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 


. 


Do. 


2 , 49 ,413 

2 , 32, 666 
* 18,04 ,300 

2 ,67,400 
1 ,76 , 115 

1,36 ,397 
( 2,81,000 

1,07, 299 
£1 ,70 ,000 
[ 1,27 ,604 


Do. 

Do. 
1964 -65 

Do. 


1963- 64 
1964 - 65 


1 ,64 ,771 
1 ,28 , 985 


1962 -63 

Do, 


5,50 ,484 
1, 16 ,071 
2 ,52 ,441 


Do, 


Do, 


1 ,27, 307 


SFC. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2863 


1962- 63 


Do. 


2 ,84 ,784 
1, 15 ,752 


Do. 


2 , 65 ,890 


Do . 


1 , 21, 139 
2 ,69, 238 


Do, 


Do. 


8 ,92,895 


Do . 


3 ,09 , 951 


Do. 
Do. 


1,47, 574 
7 ,57 ,439 


. 


, HUF 


Do. 


1 , 15, 832 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


1 , 35 , 571 
4 ,85 , 669 
44,30 , 99 $ 


Do. 


Do . 


11, 54 ,000 


3027 Ramkumar Agarwalla , A , Lyons Range , 
Calcutta 

Industrial 
3028 Ramgopal Agarwalla Do. 
3029 Ranjit Singh Sothia , 6A , Sudder St. Cal 

cutta 
3030 Rajendra Kr. Podder, Karta of Anandilal 

Poddar, 36 , Chowringhee Rd ., Calcutta HUF 
3031 Ratanlal Fomra, 392 , Mint. St., Madras . Industrial 
3032 Ratanlal Surckha, 72 ,J. N .Mukherjee Rd., 

Salkie , Howrah . . 
3033 S .C . Lail , C /o Grand Smithy Works, 

Girigh Ghosh Rd ., Belure , Howrah . 
3034 Ratanlal Chamria , 3 , Chandmari Rd. , 
Howrah . . . . . . 

HUF 
3035 S . L . Bajoria , 212 , Bidhan Sareni, Calcutta Industrial 
3036 Sajjan Kumar Agarwalla , Karta of the 

HUF of Self & Ors., 4 , Lyons Range, 

Calcutta , . . . 
3037 Kartar Samls Through A . P . Jain & Indu 

Jain , II , Clive Row , Calcutta . Industrial 
3038 Senti Pragad Jain , II , Clive Row , Calcutta 
3039 Satya Paul, 135, Canning St., Calcutta 
3040 Shaligram Jhajharia , TP -112 , Regent 

Estates , Loyalka Maidan , Jadavpur . 
3041 Smt. Shanti Devi Khaltan , 4, Queen s 

Park , Calcutta , 
3042 Shital Prasad Jain , 11, Clive Row , Calcutta 
3043 Shiv Kr. Bhuwalla , 176 , Mahatma Gan 

dhi Rd ., Calcutta . . . . 
3044 Shree Lal Fomra , 392, Mint St., Madras 
3045 Shyam Şunder Kanorla , 18 , Mallick St., 

Calcutta . 
3046 Sitaram Bhartla & Ors., 38 , Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta 

HUF 
3047 Sohanlal Schla , 38 , BanarshiGhosh St., 

Calcutta . . . . . . Industrial 
3048 Srigopal Khaitan , 96,Garden Reach Rd ., 

Calcutta 
3049 Smt. Suadevi Poddar, 18,Rabindra Sarani, 

Calcutta , 
3050 Surendra Paul, 155, Canning St., Calcutta 
3051 Surinder Singh Atwal , Atwal Nagar, 

Agangol 
3052 Swaraj Paul, 135, Canning St., Calcutta 
3053 T .C . Saboo , 15 , India Exchange Place , 

Calcutta . . . . . . 
3054 TulsiDevi Binani, 43 , Strand Road , Cal 

cutta 
3055 Smt, Urmila Devi Poddar Karta of HUF 

M /s . Champalal Poddar, 24 , Park St., 
Calcutta . 

HUF 


Do, 
1960 -61 


1 ,38 ,28 % 
1, 53 , 061 


**** 


1962 -63 

Do. 


1 ,09, 361 
2,499741 


Do. 


1 , 11, 001 


Do. 


1,62 ,712 


5,04, 305 


2 , 14 ,831 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


1 ,25, 537 
44 ,60 , 974 


Do. 
Do. 


2 ,06 ,068 
44,89 , 787 
1,53,855 


1965 -66 


1962 -63 


1,04,060 


Do. 


1 , 51 ,171 
1 ,07,464 


1954- 55 


30 , 00 ,000 


3056 V . N . Moore , Clive Row , Calcutta 
3057 Virendra Kumar Agarwalla , 4 , Lyons Ran 

ge, Calcutta . . . 
3058 Y .L , Agarwalla , C /o Grand Smithy Works , 

I , Girish Ghogh Rd . , Belur , Howrah . 


1962- 63 

Do. 


1 ,53,439 


Do . 


2 ,28 , 102 


2864 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


(PART 11 


Names of all 


SCHEDULE II 
m ), A9gociation of porsons and Companies A9gcgsod on incomeof over Rs. 10 lakhs 

in the Financial Year 1966 -67 


Serial 
No. 


Name and Address of the 499c98ce 


Status 


A9809sment Income 498es - 
year sed under 

1. T . Act 

1961 


Co . 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 


10 , 75,817 
22 , 40 ,471 


Andhra Pradesh 
1 Andhra Comont Company, Vijayawada 
2 Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Cor 

poration , Hyderabad 
3 Hyderabad Asbestos Cement Products 

Ltd ., Sanathnagar , Hyderabad . 
4 Hyderabad Allwyn Metal Works , Sanath 

nagar , Hyderabad , 
5 Hyderabad Laminated Products Ltd ., 

RashtrapathiRoad , Secunderabad 
6 K .C .P . Ltd ., Vijayawada . . . 


ŠŠŠŠŠ 


45,29,783 
55 ,51,882 
12 ,08 ,984 


1962- 63 
1964 -65 
1964 -65 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


21, 79 ,708 
28 , 15 ,087 
31,66 , 124 
31, 80 , 218 
62,91, 138 


7 Nizam Sugar Factory Ltd ., Fateh Maiden 

Road , Hyd . 


8 Ramdas Motor Transport (P) Ltd.,Kaki 


Dada 
9 SingareniCollerios Co. Ltd .,Kothagudam 

Hyderabad 
10 Too India Fruit : ( P ) Ltd . Kadian : 
II Wazir Sultan Tobacco Co. Ltd ., Mushira 

bad , Hyderabad 


ŠŠ88 


1962 -63 
1966 - 67 
1962-63. 
1966 -67 
1961- 62 
1966 -67 


67,73,488 
16, 98,035 
86, 32, 960 
22 ,01,090 


91 , 35 ,410 
1, 73 ,75, 808 


Bihar & Orissa 
12 Hazkatt Eizlacering Co., (India Branch ) 

Jamsbodpur 
113 India Copper Corporation Ltd ., Ghatsila 
14 Jaypore Sugar Coal Ltd ., Rayagada . 
15 O -R - T - Co . Ltd ., Berhampur, Distt . 
Ganjam 

. . . . . Co. 
16 SaraikallaGlass Works (P ) Ltd ., Seraikella Co . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1962 -63 


75 , 16 , 230 
1 ,84 , 97, 469 

20 ,63,677 
38 ,38 ,310 
40 , 95 460 
23 ,21, 604 


1965 -66 
1965 -67 
1962 -63 


Bombay City 1 
17 A . P . Ferguson & Co ., Allahabad Bank 

Buildiog, Apollo Street, Bombay Firm 
18 Abbott Laboratories ( I ) Ltd ., Jehangir 

Bldg ., M . G . Road, Bombay - I , Co . 


1966 -67 
1963- 64 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


14 ,48 ,918 
14 ,85, 261 
24,63, 292 
37, 84 ,490 
13, 19 , 150 
10 ,97,610 


|_ 19 AcneMfg .Co. Ltd ., Cons. Hojsc , Ballard 

Estate , Bombay 
20 Africans & Co ., 289- 93, Narsi Natha 

Stroot, Bombay - 9 . 
21 Ah nedabad Blactricity Co . Ltd ., S , Gra 

h ang Road , Bombay . . . . Co . 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 


T 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


88 , 47, 360 
1, 97 ,08 ,306 


22 Ahura Chomical Products Pvt . Ltd ., 84 

Sion Road , Bongbay - 22 . 


1969- 66 
1966 -67 


30 , 39 , 861 
33 , 35 ,280 


xc . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2865 


= 


- 


1966 -67 


74 , 28 ,001 


1961 -62 
1962 -63 


10 , 15, 183 
48,79,070 


888888Š 


1966 - 67 


73 Aluminium Ltd ., I Place Ville Maric , 

Mentrel, Canada , c /o Price Waterhouse , 
Peat & & Co., B - 4 , Gillander House , 

Calcutta - I . . . . . 
21 Aralgemated Electricity Co ., Ltd ., 17B , 

Horniman Circle , Port , Bombay 
25 Amer Dye Chem . Ltd .,Rang Udyan Sitala 

dovi Tomple , Mahim , Bombay - 16 . Co. 
26 Ambika Silk Mills Co. I td ., 11/ 12 , Heins 

Co. Road , Dadar, Bombay 
27 Anchor Lina Ltd ., 40 , Lloyd Triestino , 

298, Bazar Gato St., Bombay - I 
28 Andra Vallay Power Supply Co . Ltd . , 

Bombay Boyga , Bombay 
29 Ardeghir B . Cursetli Song Put. Ltd ., 6 

Bow part Row , Port, Bombay 
30 Assam Match Co . Ltd ., Indian Merceptile 

Charp bers , Nicol Rd., Ballard Batata , 

Bombay . . . . 
31 Associated Film Industrial Pvt. Ltd ., 

68, Tardoo Rd ., Bombay- 34 , 
32 Automobilo Products of India , Agra Road 

Bhandup , Bombay -78 . . 
33 Avory Ltd ., Sohe Poundary Birbirghem 

40 ,Roglend, c/ o Prica Waterhouse, Poat 

& Co ., B - 4 , Gillander Hovec , Cal. . 
34 B . I. C . C . Ltd ., Baplanade Hoyao , Woudby 

Road , Bombay 
33 Boacham India Pvt. Ltd ., Bagcham House , 

Bombay- 16 (Mahlm ) . . . Co. 


14 , 11, 140 


1965 -46 
1965- 65 
1966 - 67 


10, 95 ,823 
83 ,16 ,511 
24 ,05 ,343 


1966 -67 


19 , 58, 520 


Š8 


1962 -63 
1992 - 63 


10 ,65,680 
10 ,84 ,074 


888 


1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1905 - 66 
1966 -67 


12 ,04 ,800 
31,73 ,481 


29 , 73 , 936 
33 ,795700 


§8 


1966 - 67 
1962- 63 
1966 -67 


19 , 25, 820 
48 ,34 , 180 
11,36 ,250 


1966 -67 


16 ,49, 510 


;§ 


1966 -67 


17,24,412 


36 Bharat Bijloo Ltd ., Udyog Nagar, Kings 

Circlo , Rly . , Stn . , Bombay- I , 
37 Binod Mills Co . Ltd ., C /OS. B . Billimoria 

& Co., C . A . 113 M .G . Road, Bombay 
38 Bipin Silk Mills Co . Ltd ., 12 Dadar Road , 

Bombay 
19 Blue Star Eng. Co. (Bombay ) Pvt . Ltd ., 

Kasturi Building , V . St. Road , Port, 

Bombay - 1 
40 Bombay Stoam Navy Co. ( 1955 ) Ltd ., 

Ballard Estate , Bombay - 1 
41 Bombay Suburban Eloctric Supply Co. 

Ltd . , s , Graham Road , Ballard Esteto , 

Bombay - I 
42 Boots Puro Drug (I ) Ltd ., 17, NicolRoad, 

Bombay - I 
43 Brady & Morris Eng . Co. Pvt . Ltd ., 12/ 14 , 

Churchgate St. Fort , Bombay- I 
44 British Oxygon Co . clo M /s. Price Water 

house , Peat & Co., B - 4 , Gillendor House , 
Calcutta - I 

. . Co . 
Burmah Shell Ret. Ltd ., Mahul, Bombay - 74 Co. 
6 Cabl & Wirclass Ltd ., 90 - A . P . Purguson 

& Co. , 55 , Appolo St., Bombay - 1 . 
47 Calte Oil Ref. ( I ) Ltd . Caltex Housc , 

Ballard Estate , Bombay- I 
48 Castrol Ltd ., White House , Welkoshwar 

Road , Bombay - 6 . , 
49 Contral Agency Ltd . , 28 agents to J & P 

Costs Ltd ., 81 Palton Road , Bombay - 1 Co . 
50 Century Spg . & Mfg. Co . Ltd ., Industry 

House , Bombay . , . . Co . 


88 


1966 -67 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


19 ,49 ,810 
26 ,21,564 
12 ,30 ,870 


8888g 


1966 -67 34 ,33 ,886 
1962 -63 6 , 27, 76 ,870 
1962 -63 $ 1,85,320 
1962 -63 1, 55, 59,228 
1965- 66 55,94 ,997 
1966 - 67 29, 85 ,110 
1961-62 1 , 69 ,01, 954 
1962- 62 3 , 13 ,2 ,254 


2866 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part II 


2 


1966 -67 


25,81,466 


કેહું 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


24, 70 ,043 
38 ,43,905 


88 


31 Chosobrough Pond Inc. 13, Gunbow 

Street, Bombay - I 
52 CluetPeabody & Co., Inc., Appolo Stroot, ** * 

Bombay - I 
53 Corn Products ( I) Pyt . Ltd ., Shree Niwas 

Housc , Waudby Rd., Bombay - I . 
54 Cyanamid ( I) Ltd ., 254 Dr. Annie Besant 

Road , Worli, Bombay - 18 . 
55 Dadabhoy New Chirimiri Puri Hill Col 

liery Co. (P ) Ltd ., Peoples Bldg., Sir 
P .M . Rd., Bombay- I . 

Ço . 
56 Daimler Benz A .G ., Bombay House , Bom 

bay 
57 Dorr- Oliver (I) Ltd ., 16 Queens Road , 

Bombay - I . . . . 


1965- 66 
1963-64 


15,03, 530 
52 , 11, 787 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


33, 15,296 
31,88 ,600 


. 


. 


. Co. 


8 


1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


39 , 88, 430 
49,49, 391 


8 


8888 


1964 - 65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962-63 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 


25,37, 041 
23 , 96 ,893 
23,48 ,570 
36,09, 669 
10 ,23,045 

14 ,12, 347 
1,51,45,263 


1962 -63 3 ,53,44,682 


58 Elphinstone Spg . & Wvg . Co. Ltd ., Kamani 

Chambery , Ballard Estate, Bombay - 1 
50 Empire Dyg . & Mfg . Co . Ltd ., Tulsi 

· Pipe Road , Desile Road , Bombay - 3 . 
60 English Card Clothing Co . Ltd ., 1st 

Tardeo Road, Bombay - 7 
61 Esso Standard Eastern Inc ., 17, Jamshedji 

Tata Road , Bombay 
62 Esso Standard Ref, Co . of India Ltd ., 

P .B . No. 335. Bombay - 17 , Jamshedji 
ni . Tata Road , Bombay - I . . . 
03 Extrella Batteries P . Ltd ., Yusuf Building 

Churchgate St., Fort, Bombay . . 
64 Fabrican Bayer AJ, c /o Crawford Baley & 

Co. Ltd ., State Bank Bullding, Bombay Co . 
. 65 Gannon Dunkerley Co. P . Ltd ., Char 

tered Bank Building, Fort, Bombay - I 
General Electric Co., c /o A . F . Ferguson 

& Co ., Allahabad Bank Building, 

Bombay - I 
67 Glaxo Groups Ltd ., formerly known as 

Glaxo Ltd ., U . K ., Worll, Bombay - 18 
68 Glaxo Lab . ( I) P . Ltd ., Worli , Bombay - 18 
Glaxo Labs . (U . K .) through their agents 

M /8 , Glaxo Labs. (I) Pvt. Ltd ., Worli, 
Bombay - 18 . 

Co. 
Godavarl Sugar Mills Ltd .. Pazalbhov 

Building, M . G . Rond , Bombay - I 
71 Godrej & Boyace Mfg. Co . Pyt. Lt 

Lalbaug , Parel, Bombay - 12 . 


8888 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 


16,68 ,377 
13 ,28 ,900 
15, 56 ,398 


10 ,86 ,760 


88 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 


82 , 50 ,500 
2 ,42,21, 728 


888 


1966 -67 31, 50,080 
1962-63 70,72, 573 
1963 -64 98 ,34 ,654 
1964 -65 82, 83,744 
1965- 66 . 1,31, 28, 300 


8 


1965 -66 


51, 773403 


72 Gokak Mills Ltd ., Forbes Building, Home 

Street, Bombay 
73 M /8 . Goodless Wall & Lead Industries , 

14 , Gresham Street, London, E . C . 2 , 
c /o M /g Gillander & Arbuthnot & Co ., 
P . O . Box No. 174 , Gillander House , 

Calcutta - I , 
74 Hikson & Dalaji Pvt. Ltd ., Shripant 

Bhavan , Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay- 7 . 
75 The Hindustan Construction Co . Ltd ., 

Construction House , Ballard Estate , 
Bombay 

. . . . . Co . 


1961 -62 
1966 -67 


12,57,104 
11, 52,049 


1963 -64 
1964 - 65 


1 ,40 , 16 , ITO 
1, 26 , 07 , 420 


ABO. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1988 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2867 


Wt 


3 


76 Hindustan Electric Co. Ltd ., Thakersy 

House, Graham Road , Ballard Estate , 
Bombay . . 

Co. 
77 Hindustan Leaver Ltd ., Hindustan Lever 

House , 165- 166 Backbay Reclamation , 
Bombay - 1 . . . . . Co . 


1965 - 66 


20 , 28 ,096 


§ 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


4 ,27,37 , 259 
4 ,90 ,84 , 365 


§ 


1962 - 63 


77 ,06,031 


78 Hindustan Sugar Mills , 31 M . G . Road , 

Bombav - I . . 
79 Hoechst " Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd . 

Dugal House, Backbay Reclamation, 

Bombay - I , . 
80 Inarco Co. Ltd ., Foreshore Advert Build 

ing , Fort, Bombay - I 
81 India United Mills Ltd ., Indu House , 

Dougale Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay - I 
82 Indo Nippen Chemical Co. Pyt. Ltd ., 

Alice Bldg ., D . N . Road , Bombay . . 
83 Indian Express Newspapers Pvt. Ltd . 

Newspapers House, Sassoon Dock 
Colaba, Bombay 

. . . Co . 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 


68 , 96 ,600 
15 , 10, 580 


§§3§ 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1966 - 67 


1 ,53 ,51,002 

3249 .614 
29 ,13,330 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


21 , 33, 920 
36 , 16 , 947 


84 Indian Hume Pipe Co . Ltd ., Construction 

House , Ballard Estate , Bombay 
85 Indian Smelting & Refining Co . Ltd ., 

Industry House, Bombay . 
86 Indian Standard Metal Co. Ltd ., Chin . 

chpokli X Lane, Bombay 


§§§ 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1965 - 66 
1966 - 67 


56 ,73, 740 
36 ,30, 170 
18 , 52 ,232 
25 ,64 , 288 


§ 


1962 -63 


26 ,31,733 


87 Indian Tool Mfrs . Ltd ., 101, Sion Road , 

Sion , Bombay -22 
88 J. B . Adwani, Orilikon Electrodes P . Ltd . 

Radio House , 4th Floor, Rampart Row , 

Fort, Bombay 
89 J & P Coats ( Inda) Ltd ., 81 Palton Road , 

Bombay - I . . . . . Co . 


1964- 65 


1964 -65 
1965-66 
1966 - 67 


54 , 38,285 
38, 58,870 
64 ,64, 610 
87,58 ,400 


12 ,98 ,078 


90 Jam Mfg . Co. Ltd ., Lalbaug , Parel, 

Bombey - IZ . . 
91 Johnson & Philips Ltd., Kaiser-I-Hinds, 

Building , Ballard Estate, Bombay 
92 Jubilce Mills Ltd ., 104 , Bharat House, 

Apollo Street, Bombay . . Co . 


$$ 


1965-66 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


11, 56 ,846 
11,96 , 130 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


20 ,23,647 
22, 80 ,693 


93 Kamala Mills Ltd ., 45 -47, Apollo Street, 

Fort, Bobay - I 
94 Kesar Sugar Works Ltd ., 43 - 47, Apolo 

Street , Bombay - I 
95 Khatau Makanjee Spg . & Wvg . Ltd ., Laxmi 

Ballard Estate, Bombay - I 
96 Kores (India ) Ltd ., Plot No. 10, Off Halns 

Road , Bombay , , , , Co . 
97 Madhusudan Ltd . , 20 Khetan Bhavan . 

198 , Jamshedji Tata Rd., Bombay 
98 Maharashtra Sugar Mills Ltd ., Industrial 

Assam Bldg., Bombay 
99 Marshal Song" & Co. Ltd ., 278 D . N . 

Road , Bombay - I . 
100 May & Buker (Deganham ) Clo . A F. Fer 

gugon Co., Appolo St., Bombay Co. 


$$$$$ 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1965-66 


32,22,620 
11,52, 914 
53,64 ,600 
20 ,07, 310 
23.48, 228 


51 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1966 - 67 


61,71,550 

10 ,65,810 
64,93 ,941 


2868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


PART 11 – 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 


15 ,25,966 
17 ,58 , 090 


IOI Mazgaon Dock Ltd ., Dockyard Road , 

Bombay- 10 . . . . 
102 Murphy India Ltd ., Shirodkar Road , 

Parel 
103 National Electrical Industries ( P ) Ltd ., 

IndustrialEstate , Lalbaug , Bombay - 12 
104 National Rayon Corpn . Ltd ., Eros Bldg. 

Qucen s Road , Bombay 


8§§§ 


14 ,62,480 
15, 28 , 111 


1964- 65 
1966 - 67 
1961 -62 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


1, 94 , 943761 

77 ,65, 220 
1 , 00 , 06 ,040 
1 , 64 , 10 , 240 


IOS New Swadeshi Sugar Mills Ltd ., Industry 

House 159 , Churchgate Recim . , Bombay 
106 New Vinod Silk MIL Ltd ., Kasturchand 

Mlle Compound , Dadar, Bombay - 20 
107 Olin Matheison & Chem . Corps ., Pvt. 

Ltd ., c/o M / 8 A . F . Ferguson & Co ., 
Apollo St., Bombay . . . 


§§ 


1964-65 
1966 -67 


14 , 13,370 
19,01, 090 


1958 - 59 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 
1961- 62 
1965 -66 
1966 - 67 
1965 -66 


16 , 47 , 175 
21, 24 ,690 
23, 29, 387 
30 ,83 , 708 
71, 08,IIO 
67, 38 , 173 
1,88 ,89 , 570 


108 Parke Davis (1) Ltd ., Sakinaka Kurla Road , 

Bombay - 70 . 
109 Plzer Limited 163 , Beckbay Reclamation , 

Bombay 


8 
8 §§§ 

8 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


1, 05 , 66 , 214 
1995, 75 , 783 


1962 -63 


10,45,512 


1966- 67 


70 ,67, 130 


8 
8 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


29, 76 , 246 
18 , 76 ,276 


110 Phalau Sugar Works Ltd ., Sangil Bank 

Building , 296 , Bazargate Street, Bombay 
II Promier Construction Co., Ltd ., Cons 

truction House, Ballard Estate , 

Bombay 
112 Reghuvanshi Muls Ltd ., 11 /12. Haines 

Road , Bombay - 13 · · 
113 Rafliwolf Pvt. Ltd . 21, Ravelin Street, 

Bombay 
114 Sasoon) David & Co. Ltd ., EverestHouse, 

Bombay . . 
115 Scindia Steam Navg . Co. Ltd ., Ballard 

Estate Bombay - I . 
116 Sroeniwas Cotton Mills Ltd ., Shrinivas 

House , Waudby Road , Ballard Estate , 

Bombay 
117 Shree Ram Mils Ltd ., Ferguson Road , 

Lower Parel, Bombay - IO . . 


1965-66 


8 
8 


19 ,75 ,679 
14 ,98 ,478 
14 , 20 , 116 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


8 


1962 -63 


47, 57 ,080 


1963- 64 


23, 56 , 907 


8 
8 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


51 ,04 ,310 
78, 87 , 790 


118 Smith Kline & French ( India ) Ltd ., 25 - 31 

Ropewalk Lane, Bombay - I 
119 Standard Mille Co. Ltd., Mafatlal House, 
130 Surat electricity Co. Lid.,s Graham Road 

Bombay 
121 SvadeshiMills Co. Ltd., Bombay Housc, 

Bombay . . . . . . 


8 
8 
8 
8 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1965 -66 


45 ,29 ,520 
76 ,48,925 
16 ,81,666 


1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965 -66 


41 , 36 , 973 
47 , 08 , 337 
36 , 20 ,401 


122 Tata Hydro - Elec , Agencies Ltd., Bom 

bay House , Bombay 
123 Tata Hydro -Élec, Power Supply Co. Lt 

. Bombay House , Bombay 


8 
8 


1966- 67 
1965 -66 


34 , 95,370 
77,48, 145 


Ano. 4) 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1988 / JYALSTHA 18 . 1890 


: 


2860 


1965 -66 
1964-65 


13 , 18 ,845 
21,81, 560 


124 Tata Industries Pvt. Ltd ., Bombay 

_ House , Bombay 
125 Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd ., Bombay House , 

Bombay 
126 Tata Power Co. Ltd ., Bombay House , 

Bombay 
127 Tata Sons Pvt. Ltd., Bombay House, 

Bombay 
128 Telco, Ltd., Bombay House, Bombay : 


Á 
g 
$ 
$ 
$ 


1965-66 1,98 ,24 ,021 
1963-64 88 ,67, 145 
1962 -63 4 , 37 , 42, 703 
1963-64 3 ,89 ,09 ,556 


10 ,67,727 


1962- 63 
1951 -52 


12 ,93 ,575 


129 Tractors & Bulldozers Pvt. Ltd ., Cons 

truction House , Ballard Estate , Bon 

bay - Ị 
130 United Salt Works Ltd ., 121- 12 “ . 

Medowg Street, Bombay 
131 Union Carbide Corporation , 28 , Pellock 

Street, P . B . No, 2170 , Calcutta - 1 
132 Vac - U -Mation Ltd . Forbes Buildings, 

Home Street, Bombay 
Victoria Mills Ltd ., Bharat House , 104 , 

Apollo Street , Fort , Bombay . 


$ 
8 
s 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


28 ,98 ,000 
17 ,70 , 150 


1961-62 
1962-63 
1965- 66 


12 , 46 , 790 
19344 , 307 
14 ,73, 585 


e 


134 Wadilal Daulatram & Sons, 117 Mamba 

devi Road , Bombey - 4 . . 
135 Walchand & Co. Pvt. Ltd ., Construction 

House, Ballard Estate, Bombay 


i 


1962 -63 
1957 -58 
1966 -67 


10 ,48,890 
20 , 72 , 708 
44 , 17, 240 


j 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 


66 ,04,767 
29 ,22 ,070 


136 Wallace Flour Mills , 9 Wallace Street, 

Bombay - I . 
137 Warner Hindustan Ltd ., Savoy Chambers, 

Wallace Street, Bombay - I . 
138 Warner Lambert & Pharinaceutical Pvt. 

Ltd ., Co ., c/o M /: Martin & Herris P . 
Ltd ., Savoy Chambers, Wallace Street, 

Bombay - I . . . . . 
139 Warrior India Ltd . Forbes Building , 

Home Street, Bombay , . 
140 Western India Match Co., Indian Mer 

cantile Chambers, Nicol Road , Ballard 
Estatc , Bombay . . . . 


1962- 63 


27,44 ,419 


Š 


1966 -67 


10 ,50 ,610 


Š 


141 William Jacks & Co . Ltd ., Hamilton House 

Ballard Estate , Bombay 
142 Zenith Steel Pipos Ltd ., Moti Mahal, 

195 Jamshedji Tata Road , Bombay - I 


1962-63 1,25, 743782 
1963-64 1,46 ,67 ,600 
1962-63 45,18,905 
1965-66 33,83,020 


Š 
ģ 


Bombay City - II 
143 Agfa India Pvt. Ltd . , 198, Jamghedji Tata 

Road , Churchgate Reclamation , Bom 

bay+ . . 
144 Armstrong Smith Ltd ., Gregham Agguran 

ce Houge , Sir P . M . Rd ., Bombay 
145 Asian Paints ( India ) P . Ltd . , Bombay . 
146 Agsociated Cement Co. Ltd ., Cement 

House , 121, Queen s Road , Bombay - 1 


ပီ 


1964 - 65 


12 ,99,243 


1964 - 65 
1963 - 64 


ပီပီ 


10, 44, 210 
19 , 54 , 973 


1962 – 63 
1963 - 64 


3 ,37, 10 , 970 
5,58 ,23 ,484 


147 Batliboi & CO . P . Ltd ., 7 . Forbes 

Bombay - I . . . . 


St., 

. 


ပီ 


Co. 


1963. 


55, 36 , 790 


39 44.960 


2870 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JXAIŞTHA 18 . 1890 


(PART 11 


I 


148 Blundell Bomite Palats Ltd ., Igt Victoria 

Crogs Lane , Mazagaon , Bombay - fo 


Co , 


1962 – 63 
1963- 64 
1964 – 65 
1965 – 66 


19 , 59, 290 
21,47 , 402 
31,33 ,743 
32,63 ,267 


149 Bombay Fine Worsted Manufacturers , 

Castle Mills 413 - G , Vasantwadi Kal 
badevi Road , Bombay - 2 . , . R . F . 


1964 – 65 
1965 – 66 
1966 - - 67 


46 ,63 ,219 
64, 17 , 838 
46, 07, 390 


130 Bombay Potteries & Tiles Ltd ., United 

India Bldg., Sir P . M , Road , Bombay, . 
ISI Bradma of India Ltd ., Laxmi Bldg . , Şir 

P .M . Road , Bombay . . · Co . 


1961 - 62 


1965 - 66 
1966 – 67 


13, 17 ,985 
11,40 , 353 
11,86 , 560 


152 Caprihang India P . Ltd . , Janinabhoomi 

Clambers, Fort St., Bombay . 
153 Cement Agencies Ltd ., Cement Hoilsc , 

121 , Quecn s Road , Bombay - t 


14 , 15 , 290 


1962- 63 
1962 – 63 
1964 - 65 
1965- 66 
1966 – 67 


12 ,78 ,859 
28,41, 226 
23, 97, 570 
23 ,29,040 


1962 - 63 


1,23 ,21,825 


154 Ciba of India Ltd ., 14, J. T , Road , Fort , 

Bombay 
155 Colgate Palmolive ( India ) P , Ltd ., Steel 

Creet House, Dinshaw Watcha Road , 

Bombay - I 
156 Congolidated Pneumatic Tools Co. Ltd .. 

301: 302 , Agra Rd., Mulund , Bombay 
80 . . . . . . 


1966 – 67 


1,93,83 ,803 


1962 -63 
1963 – 04 


27, 43,022 
34, 28, 906 


1962 - 63 
1966 – 67 


35 ,78 ,520 
12,59 ,765 


1962 – 63 
1962--63 


10 ,49,617 
18,24 ,473 


157 Crompton Parkinson Works Ltd ., 1, For 

bes St., Bombay 
158 D .L . & Co. Pvt. Ltd., Shri Vithaldas, 

Chambers, 16 , Apollo St., Bombay - I . 
159 Dhruva Woollen Mills P . Ltd ., New Sun 

Mill Compound , Sun Mill Road , Bom 

bay - 13 . . . 
160 Electro -Metallurgical Works Ltd ., 20 , 

Sir P . M . Road , Bombay - I, 
161 Firestone Tyre & Rubber Co . of U . S . A . 

Hay Bunder Road , Sewrec , Bombay 

33 
162 Gammon India Pvt. Ltd ., Gammon House , 

Prabadevi Gadel Road , Bombay 
163 Geoffrey Manners & Co . Ltd ., Magnet 

Housc , Dougall Road , Ballard Estate , 

Bombay - I 
164. Goodlass Nerolac Paints P , Ltd ., Forbes 

Bldg., Bombay . . . . 


1962- 63 


3,48,54 ,132 


1962 – 63 


32,03,029 


1966 - - 67 
1963 - 64 
1964 – 65 
1965 – 66 


72 ,22 ,651 
21,21, 302 
41, 43,847 
43 ,08 ,829 


165 Greive : Cotton & Co . Ltd ., 1, Forbes St., 

Boinbay . 
166 Greaves Corton & Crompton Parkinson 

L : 1 , I , Forbes St., Bombay 
167 Hochtief Gaminon , Queen s Mansion , 

Biztion RI., Bombay 
168 Hochest Dyes and Chemicals Ltd ., Pare 

kh Mahal, V . N . Road , Bombay 
169 Indian Schereing Ltd ., Mercantile Cham 

bers , Graham Road ., Ballard Eqtate , 
Bombay . 


1962- 63 
1962 – 63 
1962 - 63 
1964 – 65 


60,32, 540 
27, 50, 020 
10 , 22 ,653 
19,19,355 


• 


1966 – 67 


21, 78, 311 


& Q. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2871 


1962 - - 63 
1963 – 64 


46,96 ,773 
44, 32 , 200 


33,08,635 


1962 - 63 
1962 – 63 


11,41, 545 


170 Indokem Pvt. Ltd ., 221 , D . N . Rd., Bom 

| bay - I . . . . . . . 
171 Indore Malwa United Mills Ltd ., 139, 

Medows St., Bombay 
172 Indu Oil & Soap Co ., 335, N . N . Street 

Bombay 
173 J. B , Advani & Co , Pvt. Ltd ., Advani Char 

bers , Sir P . M . Road , Bombay 
174 KJlick Iults. Kıllıck House , Homes 

Bombay 
175 Kodak Ltd ., Kodak House , Hornby Road , 

Bombay - I 
176 Lachmandas Ramgopal Chandra Chowk , 

M . C . Mkt., Bombay - 2 . . 


8888888 


1962 - 63 
1962 – 63 
1962 – 63 
1964 – 65 
1965-- - 66 


13 , 13 ,033 
25 ,06, 167 
36 ,52,663 


R . F . 


12, 38,895 
10 ,49, 385 


8 


1963 – 64 
1964 - 65 


28 ,75 , 150 
54 ,39,390 


177 Machinery Manufacturers Corpn , Lid , 

Gateway Bldg ., Apollo Buder, Boni 

bay - I . . . . . Ço , 
178 Maharashtra Small Scale Indts., Dev . 

Corpn . Ltd ., Bombay Life Bldg ., V . N . 

Road , , Bombay 
179 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd ., Gateway 

Bldg., Apollo Bunder, Boinbay - I . 
180 NationalMachinery Manufacturers Ltd ., 

5, Stadium House , N . N . Road , Bombay Co. 


888 


1966 67 
1963 – 64 
1964 – 65 


10 , 13 ,640 

89, 78 ,671 
1,03 , 30 ,620 


1962 - 63 
1963 – 64 
1964 – 65 


28 , 18 ,844 
81,38, 472 
1 , 24 , 50 ,920 


181 S . H . Kelkar & Co. P . Ltd ., 36 , Mangaldas 

Road , Bombay - 2 
182 Shapoorli Pallonji & Co ., Pvt. Ltd., 17 , 

Medows St., Bombay . . . 


1966 — 67 


17, 93, 700 


88 


1964 – 65 
1965 - 66 
1966 - - 67 


| 19,96, 429 
21,63 ,917 
27 . 77 .589 


183 Star Chemicals Pvt. Ltd ., 21, Noble Cham 

bers , Pargi Bazar, St., Bombay - I 


8 


Co . 


1965- 66 
1966 -- 67 


[ 15 ,84 ,615 
17 ,64 ,329 


1962- 63 


11,28, 150 


184 Structural Eng .Works Ltd ., Manekji Wadia 

Bldg ., M .G . Road , Bombay 
185 Unichem Laboratories Ltd ., 22 , Bhulabhai 

Desai Road , Bombay- 26 . . Co. 
186 Voltas Limited , 19 , Graham Road , Ballard 

Estatc , Bombay - I 


88ઠં 


1965 – 66 
1966 – 67 


17, 92 , 160 
24, 75 , 130 


1963 – 64 
1964 – 65 
1965 — 66 


1.35 , 11,817 
1 ,88 , 17 ,005 
2 , 11 ,89, 826 


187 West Coast Paper Mulls Ltd . , Waudby 

Roai, Shrecniyay House , Bombay - I . 


Co . 


1962 – 63 


15,04, 927 


Bombay City -III. 
188 Aditiyn Textiles Pvt. Ltd ., Gazdar House , 

627 -31- A , Girgaum Road , Dhobitala , 
Bombay - 2 

CO, 
189 Anglo Thai Corpn ., Ltd ., Fwart Housc , 
Bruce Street , Bomhay 

Non -resident Co . 
190 Automob le Electric Co. Pvt. Ltd . , Recli 

fire House , 570 , Napaun X Road , 
Bombay - 31 

Co . 
191 Bachhraj & Co , Pvt . Ltd . , 51, Mahatma 
Gandhi Rd., Bombay 

Co. 


1962 – 63 
156 " - 64 


13 ,30,144 
10,86 89 


1962 – 63 
1965 – 66 
1966 – 67 


19,89,438 
17, 41 ,367 
21, 72 , 932 


2872 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


[PART II 


N 


1962 – 63 
1962 - 63 
1962 – 63 


17 ,17,092 
88,25,230 
18 ,84,461 


1966 – 67 


$ 12 ,54, 826 


1964 – 65 


192 Bajaj Aulo Limited , 134 , Dr, Annie Besant 
Road , Bombay 

Company 
Bombay Burmah Trading Corpn . Ltd., 9, 

Wallace Street, Bombay - I 
194 Bombay Cotton Pvt . Ltd ., 104 , Apollo St., 

Bombay 
195 Bombay Ring Travells Pvt. Ltd ., Nivalle 

House , Graham Road , Ballard Estate, 

Bombay - I . . . . . Co. 
196 Cable Corpn . of India Ltd ., 6 - Ballard 

Estate, Bombay - I 
197 Cadbury Fry (Export) Ltd ., Cadbury Hou 

se , Bhulabhai Desal Road , Bombay -26 
198 Cadbury Fry ( India ) Ltd ., Bombay - 26 . 
199 D . Macropolo & Co . Ltd ., Karmani Bldg ., 

Dr, D . N . Road , Bombay . 
200 Devidayal Metal Industries Ltd ., Gupta 

Mills Estate , Reay Road , Bombay . 
301 Dhiraj Pen Mfg . Co . Pvt . Ltd ., 58 , 59, 

Kurla Road , Bombay 
202 English Steel Costings Corpn , Ltd ., Clo 

A . F . Ferguson & Co ., Ahmedabad, Bank 

Bldg., Apollo Street, Bombay - I _ . 
203 Golden Tobacco Co. Pvt. Ltd ., Tobacco 

House, Ghodbunder Rd ., Vile Parle, 
Bombay . . . . . . Con 


1966 - 67 
1963 - 64 


1,40,96 ,453 

18 , 19 ,080 
30, 16 , 381 


8 
$ 
§ 
§ 
§ 
38 
si 
s 
š 
s 
še 


1965 - 66 
1962 - 63 


27, 30 , 404 
12 ,42, 364 


1962- 63 


11 ,41,510 


1965 - 66 


10,17,27 


1965 - 66 1 ,56 ,58 ,059 
1966 - 67 2 , 22 , 03 ,842 


R . F . 


204 H . R . Bahari , Cotton Green Rd., Bombay . 
205 HomiMehta & Song Pyt. Ltd ., Mehta Hou 

80 , 79 -91, Apollo St., Bombay - I 
206 Iordia Reingurrance Corpn . Ltd , Industrial 

Assurance Bldg ., Opp . Churchgate , 
Bombay . 

. . . . 


1962 – 63 
1964 - 66 


(10 ,13,688 
14 , 00 ,991 


Co. 


Co . 


1965- 66 
196667 


27, 60 ,900 
28 , 30 , 750 


207 Indo Pharma Phatigaceutical Works Pvt. 

Ltd ., Shanti Bhavan , Kohinoor Mill 

Rd. , Bombay . . . . . Co . 
208 Jayabharat Insurance Co, Ltd., French 

Bank Bldg Himiji Street, Bombay . Co, 


1963 - 64 
1964 - 65 


12, 44 ,893 
112, 39 ,99I 


1962 – 63 
1963 - 64 
1964 – 65 
1965 – 66 


24 ,76 , 116 

1, 08 ,717 
78 ,47, 033 
14 ,655491 


209 Jupitor Genoral Insurance Co . Ltd ., 

State Bank Bldg., Bank St., Bombay . 
210 Kantilal Nanchand , Gurukul Chambers , 
Mumbadevi Road , Bombay . 

MR.F. 
211 Kanshiran Kedarnath , 131,Marine Drive, 

Bombay 
212 Khiaram Shivaldas, 415 - B , Girgaum Road , 

Bombay , 
213 V . Kundanmal Chandumal, 255 , Sheikh 
Memon St. , Bombay 

. R . F . 
214 Largon & Toubro Ltd , L & T . Houge, 

Dougal Road , Ballard Estate , Bombay . Co . 
215 Maharashtra State Road Transport Corpn , 

Vabatuk Bhavan , Balasis Road , Bombay Co , 
216 Maharashtra Steel Rolling Mills , Bhandup , 

Bombay 
217 Mukand fron and Steel Works Ltd ., Agro 

Road , Kurla , Bombay - 70 . 


1962 - 63 
1962 - 63 
1962 – 63 
1962 -63 
1962 – 63 


31,60 ,897 
911,02,529 
28,53,902 
13 ,50,000 
10 ,01,826 


1962 – 63 30,76 ,989 
1965 - 66 3,98,27,281 
1962 – 63 11,09 ,324 
1963 – 64 52,98,982 


CO . 


SEG 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2873 


218 New Indian Assurance Co . Ltd , Mahata 

ma Gandhi Road , Fort, Bombay 


Company 


1962 – 63 
1963 – 64 
1964 – 65 
1965 – 66 


15 , 54 , 324 
1 ,70, 69 , 294 
1 ,87, 41,328 
2 , 16 ,75, 441 


1962 – 63 
1963 - 64 


23 ,06 , 056 
11, 12 ,767 


1962- 63 
1963 – 64 


. 13, 13 ,000 

10 ,99,518 


1919 New Raiser- T-Hind Spg. & Wvg . Co. Ltd ., 
Shorpoo Road , Bombay 

Company 
220 Oxford University Press P . Ltd ., Oxford 

House, Apollo Bander, Bombay - I - Company 
221 Parmanand Bansidhar Prop . Shri Parma 

nand Gagandas , C /o Ferrerc St., Amrit 

Niwas , 165, Lohar Chawl Bombay . R . F . 
322 Plastic Packaging P . Lid . Chawpatty 

Chamber, Sandburst Bridge , Bombay - 4 Company 
223 Raymond Woollen Mills Ltd., J.K . Bldg. 
Dougall Road , Bombay 

Company ? 
324 Sable Waghire & Co ., Station Road , Kurla , 
Bombay , 

R . F 
325 Shree Bombay Watch Co., 160 Dr. D . N . 
Road . Bombay 

R . P . 
226 Sirdar Carbonic Gay Co , Ltd ., 16 , Apollo 
St., Bombay . . 

.. . 

. Company 

. Con 
237 South India Insurance Co . Ltd ., Jamshed 

1 Tata Road , Bombay . . . Company 


1962 – 63 
1962 - 63 


" 47 ,49 ,433 
18 ,06 ,000 


13 , 29 ,572 


1962 – 63 
1963 - 64 


10 , 37 , 237 
12 , 26 , 343 


1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 


17 , 14 ,932 
22 ,78 , 066 


238 Vulcun Jngcc , Co . Ltd ., Industrial Assuran 

ce Bldr, 73 , Vir Nariman Road , Bom 
bay - Ị . 

Company 
zag Zenith Tin Work Pvt. Ltd., Clerk Road , 

Opp.MahalaxmiRace Course , Bombay Company 


1964 - 65 
1962 – 63 


10, 05,609 
10 , 10 ,368 


1952 -63 
1962- 63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 · 


" T3,48 ,426 
" 11, 00 ,000 

52 ,59 ,405 
19, 50 ,510 


BOMBAY (CENTRAL ) 
230 Amritlal & Co. Pvt . Ltd ., Rang -Udyan 

Sitladevi Temple Road , Mahim , 

Bombay 
231 Baldota Bros., Baldota Bhavan Queen s 
Road , Bombay 

U .R . F. " 
Bennet Colaman & Co. Pvt . Ltd ., Times 

of India Bldg., D , N . Rd . Bombay . C . O . 
Bhor Industries Ltd . , Sir Vithaldas 

Chambers , 16 Apollo Street, Bombay 
234 Bharat Barrel & Drim Mfg . Co. Ltd ., 

139 MedowsSt. , Fort , Bombay 
235 Bradbury Mills Ltd . , State Bank Building 

Bank St., Bombay 
Cementation Co. Ltd., Jogeshwari , 

Bombay 
237 Commercial Yarn Trading Co., 11/13 

Town Lane, Sutterwalla Bullding , Kolma 
Mohalla , Bombay 

U . R . F . 
238 Dawn Mills Ltd ., State Bank Bldg ., 

Bank St., Bombay 
239 Dharampur Leather Cloth Co . Pvt . Ltd . 

to , Chawpatty Seaface , Bombay- 7 . 
240 Edward Textiles Milts Ltd ., Indu House , 

Dougal Road , Ballard Estate, Bombay 
241 Perro Alloys Corporados Ltd ., Tumsar . 
242 Flmistan P . Ltd ., 139 Medows Street , 

Fort, Bombay 
243 French Dyes & Chemicals India Pvt. 

Ltd . 109- D Slon , Bombay - 22 . . 


1962-63 
1962- 63 
1962 - 63 


60 ,00 ,000 
16 ,07,414 
31,60 ,154 


1962 -63 


12 ,00 , 000 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 


33,81,620 
18 ,07, 109 

11,06 ,000 
627, 70 , 167 
12,85,274 
11,49,793 


2874 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


(Part II 


1962- 63 


48 ,61,611 


Co . 
R . F . 
Co. 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


23, 16 , 543 
12 ,95 , 718 


Firm 
Firm 


244 Godfroy Phillips India Ltd . Chakle , 

Andheri, Bombay 
245 

Massonali Jetha C /o Hassambhoy Jetha , 

Opp . Byculla Goodis Depot , Bombay - 37 
246 Hukumchand Mills Ltd . Indore 
247 India Hosiery Factory , Bombay Cotton 

Mills Compound , Kala Chowky 

Road , Bombay 
248 J . B . Mangharam & Co , Gwalior . 
249 Jayems Eng . Co. Warden House , Sir 

P . M . Road , Bombay 
250 Kamani Engg . Corpn . Ltd . Kamoni 

Chambers, 32 Nicol Rd ., Ballard 

Estate , Bornbay 
251 Kamani Metuls & Alloys Ltd ., (Address 

as above ) 
252 Kapurchand Pvt . Lid ., Roxy Chambers, 

New Qucen s Road , Bombay 
253 Khimji Poonja & Co ., 19 - 21 Dalal St., 

Bombay . . . . . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 

Do. 


10 ,33,579 
31,07, 586 
13 ,92,270 


R . F . 


Co. 


18 ,08 ,201 


Do. 
Do. 


13, 50 ,700 
13 ,72 ,210 


Do. 


R . F . 


1946 -47 


16 , 73 , 334 
13 ,42 ,878 


254 Metropolitan Springs (P ) Ltd ., Antoy 

Hill , Wadala , Bombay 
255 Patel Engg. Co . Ltd ., Jogeshwari, 

Bombay 
256 Prakash Cotton Mill Lid ., 180 Niedow s 

Street , Bombay 
257 Patel Cementation (Durgapur M 

Contract ) Jogeshwari, Bombay . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1963 -64 


11,88 ,688 
84, 94 ,652 
1, 42 ,31, 735 

88, 31, 841 
49, 07 ,175 


R . F . 


258 


Co . 


R . F . 


Phoenix Mills Ltd . , State Bank Building , 

Bank Street, Bombay 
259 R . B . Shriram Durgaprasad & Fatehchand 

Narsingdas (Export Firm ) Tumsar , 
260 R . S , Gopikisan Agarwal & Sons, 

Tumsar 
261 Ramnarain Sons Pvt. Ltd ., State Bank 

Building , Bank St., Bombay 
262 Ramkrishna Ramnath , Kamptee 
263 Ruby Mills Pvt. Ltd ., Lady Jamshedii 

Road , Dadar , Bombay - 28 
264 Shivraj Fine Art Litho Works ,Nagpur 


1962 -63 

Do . 
Do . 


46 ,61, 234 
48, 57, 755 
17,59, 285 
18, 53 , 170 
16 , 39 , 382 


Co . 


Do. 


R . F . 


Do . 


Co . 


Do 
. 


R . F . 


Do . 


11 , 97,538 
22, 73,45 0 


DELHI 


1962-63 

Do. 


19 ,75 ,439 
12 ,96 , 879 


” 


Do. 


Do. 


265 Anand Finance P . Ltd ., 9 - E , Con Cir., 

New Delhi 
266 Ashoka Hotel Ltd., 50 - B , Chanakyapuri , 

New Delhii 
267 Basti Sugar Mills Co. Ltd ., 3- Cavlary 

Line, Delhi 
268 Bharat Ram Charat Ram ( P ) Ltd . . 

Bur ) Hindu Rao , Delhi 
269 Briz Bası Motor & Gencral Financier ( P ) 

Ltd . , Asal Ali Road , New Delhi 
270 D . L . F . Housing & Const. P L ., Con . 

Place , New Delhi 

Dellu Cloth & Gcncral Mill . Ltd ., Bara 
271 Hindu Rao , Delhi 

Devi Prasat Khindelwal & Sons, 3641, 
272 DAG Extension , Delhi 
273 Electronics P . Lt , Con . Place , New 

Delhi 


13, 97,55 
26 ,00 ,818 

18 ,65, 000 
14 ,88 ,311 


1961-62 
1962 - 63 


Co. 


Do. 


2 ,55, 75 ,731 


R . F . 


Do. 


14 ,71, 769 
11, 98 ,484 


Co. 


Do. 


SEO. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2875 


274 Hindustan Air Conditioning Corpo , , 

A Block , Con .. Circus , New Delhi 
275 Indian Airlines Corporation 


R . F . 
Pb , under 
taking , 


1962 -63 

Do. 


11, 31, 126 
30,88 ,855 


Co . 


29 ,94 ,733 


276 Indian Aluminium Cables Ltd ., 40 F . 

NDSE . New Delhi 
277 Instalments Supply Co ., 46 -Janpath , 

New Delhi 
278 MotorGeneral Finance Ltd ., Asaf Ali 

Road , New Delhi . 
279 Madanmohan Lal Sri Ram (P) Ltd . 

Bara IIindu Rio , Delhi 
Maha LaxmiSugar Mill Ltd ., Parliament 

Street, New Delhi , 
281 Paper Pro:l 1ct9 (P ) Ltd ., Asaf Ali Road , 

New Delhi 
282 Payen Talbros ( P ) Ltd ., Najafgarh Road , 

New Delhi 
283 Punjab Stores (1 ) Lid ., 3- Aurangzeb 

Lanc, New Delhi 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 

Do . 
1965 -66 


10 , 18 ,559 
29 ,46 ,223 
19 ,24 , 271 


" 


1964 -65 

Do. 
1965 -66 


38 ,84 ,905 
12 ,74 ,854 
26 ,97, 930 
II, 11, 306 
11, 02 , 543 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


284 


R . B . Naralı Singh Sugar Mills Co . 
( P ) , Ltd ., 2 Curzon Road , New Delhi 


1963-64 


19,41,214 


1962- 63 

Do. 


23 ,66 ,324 
15,28, 237 


Co . 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


285 Tirath Ram Ahuja ( P ) Ltd ., 16 , Fire 

Brigade Line, New Delhi 
286 Willcox Buckwell India (P ) Ltd ., 

32, Najafgarh Road , New Delhi 
287 Bharat NidhiLtd ., 5 , Parliament Street, 

New Delhi 
288 Chaman Lal & Bros. New Delhi : 
289 D . S . Bist & Sons , Bløt Estate, Nanltal . 
290 Dharam Singh Babek Singh 12 , Roshanara 

Road , Delhi 
291 Dalmia Dadri Cement Ltd ., 4 , Scindia 

Houac , New Delhi 
292 Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Ltd ., 4 , Scindla 

House , New Delhi 
293 Escorts Ltd ., Escorts House , Roshanara 

Road , Delhi 
294 Golcha Property (P ) Ltd ., Jalpur 
295 Jaswant Sugar Mills Ltd ., Mecrut : 
296 Lord Krishna Sugar Mills , Saharanpur . 
297 Modi Industrics Ltd ., Modi Nagar 
298 Modi Spg, & Wvg . Mills Ltd ., Modi 


26 ,64 ,090 
49,45,715 
16 ,24 ,606 
48 ,01,207 
23,29,365 


å 


Do. 
Do. 


1963- 64 


120 ,45,693 


igara 


1962 -63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 


38, 08 ,449 
15 ,82 ,620 
21,38 , 127 
26 ,92 , 225 
29 , 18 , 340 


Nagar 


Do. 


50 ,97 ,261 
12 , 32 ,589 


Do , 


299 Oswal Woollen Mills Co . Ltd ., Ludhiana 
300 Orissa Cement Ltd ., 4 , Scindia Housc , 

New Delhi 
301 R . K . Machine Tools , Ludliiana , 
302 Security & Finance Co . ( P ) Ltd , Delhi 


Do. 


Do . 


R . F . 
Co . 1 


115 ,64,006 
13 , 26 , 043 
11, 01,812 


Do. 


303 Shiv Parkash Janak Raj & Co ., Amțitsur 


U . R . F . 


1962 - 63 


27,01, 094 


Co. 


18, 56 , 143 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 


63,02 ,451 


304 Swadesh Clou Dealer Ltd ., Gencral 

Ganj, Karpus 
305 Swadeshi Cotion Mills Co. Ltd ., Civil 

Lincs , Kanpur 
306 W . L . Kohli & Co., 6 - A , Connaught 

Placc, New Delhi 
307 C . J. Patel & Co . Mota Pore , Nadiad . 
308 D . C . C . Lts ., Sikka 

. . 


U . R . F . 
R .F . 

Co. 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


, 


30 , 80 ,861 
34 ,63, 588 
41,62,690 


2876 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Part 11 


I 


3 


Company 


Gujarat - Icoptd . 
309 Karamchand Premchand Pvt. Ltd ., 

Retreat, Shahibag , Ahmedabad 
310 New Shrrock Spg. & Wvg. Mills 

Co , Ltd ., Ahmedabad 
311 Siraj Sons, Mangrol 
312 Vikram Mills Ltd ,, Outside Sarangpur 
Gate, Ahmedabad 

“ . 


1965 -66 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 


1, 10 ,26 , 590 
1,02 ,69,642 

II ,11 , 192 


RE 


Company 


1962 -63 


21,43, 405 


77 , 22 , 570 
20, 64 , 230 


Gujarat- in 
313 Ambica Mills Ltd ., Kankarla , Ahmeda 

bad 
314 Arbuda Mills Ltd., Rakhial, A bad . 
315 Bharatkhand Textile Mfg . Co. Ltd ., 

Girdharnagar , A bad 
316 Commercial A bad Mills Co. Ltd ., Near 

Idga Chowky, A bad 
317 Elecon Eng . Co. Ltd ., Vallabh Vidyanagar 

Dist. Kalra ) . 
318 Industrial Machinery Mfg. Pvt . Ltd ., 

Albad . . 


17 ,47 , 322 


$$ 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1965-66 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


18 ,92, 769 
11,58 ,452 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 
1965 -66 
1963 - 64 


12 , 27 , 459 
10 , 76 , 405 
II , 15 ,790 
26 ,01 ,490 
10 , 36 ,840 


319 Jyoti Ltd ., Industrial Aroe, Baroda- 3 . 
320 Keshav Mills Ltd ., Petlad . 
321 Mahendra Electrical Ltd ., Kamla Mission 

Road , Nadied , 


13, 03 ,244 


Road , A bad 


. 


322 New Commercial Mills Lid., Naroda 
323 New India Industries Ltd., JetalpurRoad , 
324 Rohit Mills Ltd., Khokhra Mehmedabad , 
325 Sayaji Mills Ltd ., Kathwada , A bad 


$$$$$38 


11, 42 ,883 


Baroda . 


1966 - 67 
1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 
1964-65 


A bad 


37 ,42,060 
26 ,96, 940 
1,02 ,04 ,679 

10 , 66 , 176 


326 


Tarun Commercial Mills Ltd . 0 / S Kalu 

pur Gate , A bad 


Kerala 


327 Aluminium Industries Ltd ., Kundara . Company 
328 Forest Industries Ltd ., Alwaye . Company 
329 Malayalam Plantations Ltd ., Quilon 

Company 
330 Malayalamn Plantations Ltd ., Quilon . . Company 
331 Periakaramalai Tea & Produce Co , Ltd ., 

P . B . No. 33, Coimbatore . Company 


1966 - 67 
1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1963 - 64 


63, 69 , 185 
11 ,67, 760 
37 71,004 
49 , 90 , 871 


1961 -62 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


10 ,47, 563 
15 , 32 ,910 
11,63, 320 


Firm 
Company 


332 Sadhoo Beedi Depot, Cannanorc , . 
333 Travancore Chemical Manufacturing Co . 

Ltd ., Alwayo . . 
334 Travancore Cements, (P ) Ltd., Kottayam 
335 Travancore Cochin Chemicals Ltd ., Ud 

yogamandal , . 


1966 -67 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


15 ,15 , 180 
17 , 09 , 435 
19 , 57 , 232 


336 
337 


Treyencore Rayons Ltd ., Perumbevoor . 
Travancore Titanium Products , Veli 


Š88 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


16 , 10 ,804 
13 ,01,610 
$ 5,27,911 
21,77, 294 
26 ,41, 805 


Madras - I 


338 A . Boake Roberts & Co. ( I) Ltd ., 1 - 5, Se 

vça Wells Street, Madras - 16 . . Company 


1966- 67 


14 ,27, 890 


8KG. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2877 


I 


36 ,06 ,822 


14 ,43 ,510 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1963-64 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1962 - 63 
1966 -67 


10, 90 ,400 
16 ,32 ,870 
19, 16 ,060 


1 , 13, 56 ,649 

36,04 ,533 
10 ,86 ,480 


13,41,234 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


23 , 85 ,457 
33 , 57,010 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


60 , 86 ,040 
27, 24 ,050 


Madras - contd , 
339 Amalgamations ( P ) Ltd ., 202 -205,Mount 
Road , Madras 

Company 
340 Messrs. Amrutanjan Ltd ., 14 , Luz Chu 
rch Road ,Madras 

Company 
341 Aruppukottal Sri Jeyavilas (P ) Ltd ., Arup 
pukottal, Ramnad (District) 

Company 
342 Best & Co. Ltd ., 13 - 15 , North Beach 
Road , Madras - 1 

- Company 
343 Binny & Co. (London) Ltd .,Agency Binny 
& Co. , Madras 

. Company 
344 Bukingham & Carnatic Co. Ltd ., 7. Arme 
nian St., Madras - I . 

· Company 
345 Carborandum Universal Co. Ltd ., 52 -63, 
Jehangir Street, Madras . . 

Company 
346 Cauvery Sugars & Chemicals Ltd ., Dare 
House, Madras - I , 

Company 
347 Cork Industries, 2- A ,Malayaperumal St., 
Madras - I . 

Regd . Firm 
348 Decan Sugar & Abkari Co. Ltd ., Dare 
House , Madras - I 

Company 
349 Dalmia Magnesite Corporation , Salem , Regd . Fimm 
350 E . I. D , Parry & Co. Ltd ., Dare House, 
Madras- I . . 

Company 
, 331 Penner Cockill Ltd ., Kochadai,Madurai Company 
352 Gannon Dunkarly & Co . (Madras ) ( P ) 

Ltd ., 19 , Cathedral Road , Madras , Company 
353 Indian Express Ltd., Madurai (Remdad 
Rd.) 

Company 
354 Kasturi & Sons Ltd., Mount Road , Mad 

Company 
355 Dowell & Co. Ltd., 1-6, 11-Line Beach , 
Madras . 

Company 
356 Madurai South India Corporation (P) Ltd., 
6 , Armenian St ., Madras - I 

Company 
357 W . J. Bush Products (P ) Ltd .,Dare House , 
Madras . . . . . 

Company 
358 Madura Mills Co . Ltd . , Madurai , Company 
359 Mettur Industries Ltd ., No. 8, II . Lino 
Beach , Madras 

Company 
360 Sree MeenakshiMills Ltd .,Madurai . Company 
361 Oldham & Sons ( 1) Ltd ., 5, Meclean St., 
Madras 

Company 
362 Pandian Ingurance Co. Ltd ., Madurai . Company 
363 Perry s Confectionery Co . Ltd . , Dare 
House , Madras 

Company 
364 Parry & Co . Ltd ., Dare House, Madras - 1 Company 
365 Rajapalayam Mills Ltd ., Rajapalayam . Company 
366 Seethalakshmi Mills Ltd ., Pasumalai, 
Madurai. 

Company 
367 Southern Roadways ( P ) Ltd . , Madurai . Company 
368 Sundaram Industries ( P ) Ltd ., Madurai , Company 
369 T . V . Sundaram Iyengar & Sons ( P ) Ltd ., 
Madurai . . 

Company 
370 Tube Investments of India Ltd ., II / 12 , 

North Beach Road , Madras . . Company 


1962 - 63 
1966 -67 
1964- 65 
1966 -67 


TAS . 


14 , 68 ,060 
11,46,750 
23, 26 ,095 
21,56 ,860 
10,60,420 

19 , 82 , 333 
1 , 24 ,31,951 


1963 - 64 
1965- 66 
1965- 66 


1965 -66 
1965-66 


22, 28 , 540 
17 ,45, 530 


1962- 63 
1966 -67 


18 , 68 ,526 
14 ,39 ,040 


1963 -64 
1962 -63 
1961-62 
1964 -65 


12 ,42 ,570 
33 , 09 , 520 
12 ,81, 874 
15 ,66 ,920 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


15 ,67, 280 
57, 97 , 006 
53 ,58, 536 


1966 -67 
1963- 64 


72 , 15, 687 
83 ,84 ,840 


Madras -11 


371 Choctinad Corporation (P ) Ltd ., 18 / 17, 

Greenways Road , Madros - 28 . . Company 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


10 , 77 ,256 
13 , 28 , 578 
15 , 05, 169 
15 , 39 , 190 


2878 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAIŞTHA 18. 1890 


(Part II 


tore 


1965 - 66 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


14 ,80 , 711 
11, 32 ,685 
23 , 46 ,520 


372 Coimbatore Cotton Muls Ltd ., Coimba 
373 DhanalakshmiMills Lid., Tirupui : Co. 
374 L . G . Balakrishnan & Bros. (P ) Ltd ., 

India House, Trichy Road , Colmba 

torc 
375 Lakshmi Mills Company Limited , Pap 

: Co . 
pinalckenpalayam , Coimbatora 


1965 - 66 


12 , 10 , 520 


ico. 


1958 - 59 
1959 -60 
1961 -62 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


16 , 10 , 762 
27, 33 ,822 
69, 57, 927 
41, 09 ,295 
63, 10 , 250 
79, 24, 190 


1966 -67 


20 , 39 ,490 


376 Madras Auto Service (P ) Ltd., 37 ,Mount 

Road , Madras - 6 
397 Madras Rubber Factory (P) Ltd ., 175/1, 

Mount Road , Madres - 2 
378 Premier Mills (CRE ) Ltd., Udumalpet 
379 S . M . E .S . Corporation Ltd ., Tenpur Tir 

uchirapalli . . . . . 


§88 


Co. 


1962 - 63 
1965 -66 


22 ,62 , 045 
19 ,69,207 


Co . 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 
1966 - 67 


20 ,01, 321 
15 , 83 , 910 
24, 80 ,090 
23,87 , 590 
15 , 42, 587 * 


380 Sundaram Finance (P ) Ltd ., 52 , Peters 

Road , Madras - 14 . 
381 Synia Viscosa , S . P . A . , Milen 
382 Venkatesa Mills Ltd ., Udumalpet 


ဦး 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1961- 62 
1962 -63 
1963 - 64 
1964 - 65 
1965- 66 


38, 29 ,210 
11 ,97 ,000 
20 , 90 , 149 
19 ,07, 869 
18,61,757 
20, 78 , 470 
14 ,00 , 521 


Madras Central 
383 English & Scottish Jolnt Co - operative 

Wholesale Society Ltd ., Calicut . Co . 
384 India Cements Ltd ., 175/1, Mount Road , 

Medras- 2 
389 Indian Metal & MetallurgicalCorpo 
498 , Mint St. , Madras - I 

R . F . 
-386 N . S . Ramlah (Sharavathy Project), 22 ; * 

Cubbon Road , Bangalore 
Madras Bangalore Transport, Second Lingettes 

Beach , Madras - 31 
(388 Mettupalayam Coonoor Service; Mei- 1.F. 

tupalayam 
389 Sundaram Spinning Millo ,Komarapala 

yam 
390 Western India Plywood Ltd ., Baliapatam Co. 


1962- 63 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 


10 ,67,220 
60 , 34 , 176 
12 , 16 , 174 
16 , 25,432 
11,82, 326 
10, 31, 882 


387 Metre 


pacapala. Co. 


11,41 , 139 
15,17, 999 


18 ,61, 064 


Mysoro 
391 Amco Batteries Ltd ., Mysore Road , BAD . 

galore 
392 Automatic Telephone & Electric Co .Ltd ., 

Bangalore . . . . . Co . 
393 Bangalore Woollen , Cotton & Silk Mills 

Ltd ., Bangalore 
394 Bharat Becdi Works , Kudroli , Manga 

lore . . . . . . Fm 


ŚŚ 


1966 -67 
1962 - 63 
1963 - 64 
1966 - 67 
1965-66 


20 ,42 ,175 
24,81, 142 


63,20 ,860 
12 ,22,281 


Sto . 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2879 


4 


4 


5 


cer4 


1966 -67 


110 , 39 , 830 


11, 46 ,030 


1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1966 -67 
1966 - 67 
1966- 67 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


21,08 , 301 
2 ,06 ,53, 220 
1,08 , 49 ,790 

18, 6 4 , 103 


44 ,41, 953 
2 , 96 ,32 , 590 


Co . 


1963 -64 


42, 98 , 535 


1966 -67 
1965 - 66 


23,07 , 120 
$ 6 , 02 , 096 


1375 Consolidated Coffee Estates Ltd ., Mer 
396 D . Caswali & Co., (Mysore), No. 1o . W 

Alexandra House, Richmond Town , 
Bangalore 

Regd . Firm 
397 Davanagere Cotton Mills Ltd ., Dava 

nagere , 
398 Indian Telephone Industries Ltd ., Door 

Co. 
vaninagar , Bangalore 
399 Kirloskar Blectric Co. Ltd ., Rajaji Nagar, 

Bangalore 
400 Kirloskar Associates , Managing Agents 

Firm , Mysore Kirloskar Ltd ., Harihar Regd . Firm 
Mangaloro Gancsh Bccdi Works, My 
sore 

Regd . Firm 
402 Motor Industries Co . Ltd ., Adugodi, 

Bangalore . . . . 
403 Mysore State Road Transport Corp ., 

Bangalore 
404 Mysore Electrical Industries Ltd ., Mysore 

Road , Bangalore 
405 Mysore Kirloskar Ltd ., Harihar 
406 Priaters (Mysore) (P ) Ltd ., Mahatma 

Gandhi Road , Bangalore . . 
407 Robert Bosch , G . M . B . H . , Bangalore 
408 Senapathy Whitely (P ) Ltd . , Bangalore . Co . 

Stumpp Schuelo & Somappa (P ) Ltd ., 

Bangalore . 
410 Tungabhadra Steel Products Ltd ., T . B . 
11 Unlted Brewerlos Ltd.,Grant Road ,Banco 

galore . . . . . . Co. 

Madhya Pradesh 
412 Central India Machinery Mfg . Co ., Birla 

Dagar , Gwalior 
413 Central Provinces Manganego 

Ltd ., Mount Road , Nagpur 
414 Gwalior Sugar Co. Ltd ., Dabra , Gwalior Co . 
415 Gwalior Rayon Silk Mfg . (Wvg.) Co . ] 

Birle Gram , Nagda . 
- 416 Jaora Sugar Mills P . Ltd ., Jaora . 
417 Mohanlal Hargovinddes , Golc Bazar , 

Jabalpur 
- 418 Straw Products ( P ) Ltd . Co ., Bhopal 
419 Vrajlal Manilal & Co., Sagar 

· R .F . 


1964 -65 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


1966 -67 
1966 -67 
1966 -67 


13 , 37 ,930 
53 ,48 ,470 
11, 62 , 190 
12 ,92 ,010 
12 ,97, 236 
50 ,59 ,980 


1962 -63 


19, 02 , 006 


Š3838 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 


79,71,411 
17 , 70 ,47 


Ltd 


1962-63 
1962 -63 


3 , 79 , 59 , 110 

10 , 17 , 833 


1962 - 63 
1962 -63 
1962 - 63 


30 ,73,471 
19 ,76 , 361 
13 , 270761 


17, 59 , 242 


1962 -63 
1965 -66 


Poora 
- 430 Ashok Sahakari Sakhar Karkhena Ltd ., 
Ashok Nagar 

A.O.P. 
421 Asbestos Cement Co . Ltd ., Mukund, *-- * 

Bombay , . 
422 Ballarpur Paper and Straw Board Mills 

Ltd ., Bellarpur. . . . . Co. 
423 Bansal Abirchand ( R . B .) Hinganghat . R . F . 
424 Chhatrapati Shivaji Sahakari Sakhar Kar 

khana Ltd ., Bhavaninagar , , , A . O . P . 
425 Kirloskar Bros, Kirloskarwadi . 

Co. 
426 Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd ., Kirkce , Poong Co . 
427 Kirloskar Pneumatic Co. Ltd ., Hadap 

sar . . . . . . . Co . 


1962-63 
1962 - 63 


1,58,07, 324 
59, 73, 072 
21, 47 ,210 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1961- 62 


17 , 34 ,520 
26, 84 ,080 
76 , 05 ,437 


17,68 070 


2880 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART IL 


10 ,14 ,300 
26 ,66 ,804 
39 ,59 ,361 


Poonaconid , 
428 Kirloskar Sons & Co., Lakakl, Poona . R . F . 
429 Kolhapur Sugar Mills Ltd ., Kasba Ba 
wada , 

Co. 
430 Kopergaon Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana 
Ltd ., Kopergaon 

A . O . P . 
431 Malegaon Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana 

Ltd . Malegaon Dist ., Poona . . A . O .P . 
432 Panchganga Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana 

Ltd ., Ichalkaranjini . Karkhane Ltd ., 
433 Pravara Sahakari Sakhar Kark 

Pravaranagar , . 
434 Rahuri Sahakari Sakhar Karkhada ] 

Rahuri . 


24 ,24 , 395 


1965-66 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962 -63 


A.O.P. 
A .O .P. 


14 ,83, 513 


tan 


A.O .P. 
485 Shriram Sahakari SakharKarkhana,Phal 
436 Saswad Mali Sugar Factory Ltd.,Malina 
437 Ugar Sugar Works Ltd., Vakharbhag , 


A .O .P. 


17, 59 , 247 
21,96 , 103 
23, 60 , 719 
17, 38 ,000 
17, 71,880 
26 , 63 , 450 
30 ,68 ,880 


gar 


Co . 


Sangli 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


: 


T964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


Pranjab 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


15 ,70 , 143 
11, 43 , 379 


438 Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd ., Sonopat : Co . 
- 439 Bombay Motor Trading Co ., Kapurthala R , F . 
440 Hindustan Milkfood Manfr , (P ) Ltd ., 
Nabha . . . . 

. Co . 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


38, 35 , 319 
64 , 49 , 580 
75 ,87 ,278 


CO . 


44 ) Mohan Meakin Brewarles Ltd ., Solan 

( Formerly Dyer Meakin Breweries Ltd ., 

Solan ) . 
442 Oriental Carpet Manufacturers ( India) 

Co. ( P ) Ltd . , Amritsar 


1963 -64 
1964 - 65 


1, 10 , 58 ,637 
1 , 51,40 ,720 


443 Patiala Flour Mills (P ) Ltd ., Patiala · Co. 
444 Pepsu Roadways Trpt, Corpn ., Patiale . Co . 
445 Pure Drinks ( Bombay) (P ) Ltd ., Patiala 


1962-63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1964 -65 
1965-66 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1964- 65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


12 , 29 , 139 
19 , 19 , 288 
38 ,61, 586 
12 , 12 ,840 
17 ,67, 725 
20 , 08 , 800 
17,03,698 
15 ,88 , 585 
30 ,62, 946 
12 , 33 , 728 
11 ,25 ,440 
17 ,87,303 
15 ,02 ,379 
18, 32 ,216 
31, 11 , 388 
45,65, 28 % 
49 , 06 ,376 


446 


Pure Drinks (Calcutta) (P ) Ltd ., Patiala 


Co, 


447 Pure Drinks (New Delhi) (P ) Ltd ., Patiala Co . 


448 Sarswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd ., Ya 

muna Nagar . 
449 Sukhjit Starch & Chemical Ltd ., Phax 

wara . . . . . . 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


19 , 33, 133 
19 ,20 ,826 


Co . 


Rajasthan 
450 Associated Stone Industries (Kota ) Ltd ., 

Ramganjmandi 
451 Ganganagar Sugar Mills Ltd ., Jaipur . 
452 Maharaja Shri Umaid Mills Ltd ., Pali . 


888 


1965- 66 
1962 - 63 
1962 -63 


13 ,64 ,411 
10 , 82 ,601 
28 , 3 ,841 


Seo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2881 


Uttar Pradesh - 1. 


453 B . I. C . Ltd . , Kanpur 
454 B . R . Sons Ltd ., Behari Niwas , Kanpur 
455 Elgin Milla Co, Lid , Kanpui 


Co , 
Co . 
Co , 


1965 -66 
1962 - 63 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


1 , 14 ,51,444 

26 ,33,909 
35, 02 ,410 
12 ,48, 105 


456 Geep Flash Light Industries Ltd ., 28 South 

Road , Allahabad 
457 Hind Lamps Ltd ., Shikohabad 

, Co , 


38 


1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1966 -67 


30 , 94 ,910 
17 , 90 , 975 
15, 67,249 


29 ,05 , 932 


er , 


458 Laxmi Raitan Coiron Mills Co. Ltd ., 

BeliariNiwar, Kanpur 
459 M . P . Sugar Mills Co. Ltd . , Kamla 

Kanpur , 
467 Sherwani Sugar Syndicate (Pvt) Ltd ., 

28 , South Road , Allahabad 


ØØ8 


1962-63 
1962 - 63 


13 , 18 ,289 
10,66 ,287 


1966 -67 


Uutter Pradesh - 11 . 
461 Bijli Cotton Mills ( P ) Ltd ., Hathras , Co . 
462 Himalaya Drug Co ., Dchradun 
463 R . S . Madho Řam & Suns, Rajpur Road , 
Dehradun . . 

. . . R . F . 


. 


R . F . 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 


24 ,00 ,000 
13 , 88 ,694 


1964 -65 


11 ,92 . 110 


West Bengal - I. 
464 A , Roy -Role & Co. Pvt. Ltd ., 12, Mission 

Row , Cal. . 
465 A.2.1. ( India) Pvt. Lid ., 13. Rajendra boy 

Mukherjee Road Cal. 


13, 51 , 988 


1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1962 -63 

Do. 


40 , 71 ,927 
38 , 94 ,713 
50 ,41,311 
18 ,49 , 197 


Do. 


25 ,87 , 147 
16 ,32 , 774 


1966 -67 


466 A . B . I. Liigired (London ) 
167 Alluminium Corporation of India Ltd ., 

7 , Council House St., Cal. . 
468 Alperd Herbet India ( P ) Ltd ., 13/ 3 , Strand 

R 1., Cal. 
469 AngloIndian Jute Mills Co. Ltd ., 31, Neca 

ji Subhas Rd., Cal. . 
+ 7 ) Angus Co. Ltd ., 3, Clive Row , Cal. 
471 Aziatic Oxygen & Acetyl e Co . Ltd., 

8 , Dilliousie s 1. , Cil , 
172 A9gain BengalCement Co . Ltd ., 7 ,Well ly 

Place , Cal. 
473 Ansciated Buttery Mikers 1 .d ., 59 /3C , 

Chowringhee Rd., Cal. 


1962 - 63 

Do. 


27, 78 , 303 
117 ,49, 929 


Do. ? 


111 ,29, 733 


Do. 


18 ,94 , 308 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965- 66 


19, 40 , 649 
54 ,45, 684 
55 ,85, 899 
70 , 95 ,739 


1962- 63 


474 Associated Commercial Co . of In ia Pvt. 

Ltd ., 7, Hesting St., Cul. 
47 ; Associated Power Co . Ltd ., 8 , Clive Row , 

Calcutta 
476 Aveiling Belford Ltd ., Clo M /s. Jessop & 

Co . Lid ., 6 ; Na Subhas RJ. , Cal. . 
477 Avery & Co . Pvt. Ltd ., 28 /2 , Waterloo 

Strcet , Calcutta 
478 Balley / ite Co. Ltd ., 15, In lián Exchang : 

Pl ce , Calcu ta . 
479 M /g Bansidhar Baijnath , 174 , Chittaranjan 

Avenue, Calcutta . 
485 M / s. Bansidhar Durudutt, 7 , Vivaka 
nanda Road , Calcutta . , 

. R . F . 
- - - - - - - 


1963-64 
1966 -67 
1965-66 
1963-66 
1962- 63 
1962 -63 


116, 88,956 
17, 19 ,082 
11, 18 , 113 
73 ,58 ,122 
15,56,209 
32, 80 , 321 
13 , 56 , 289 


2882 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1890 


[Part if 


V 3. filiidhir jh isiyamdas , II, Shiv 

Takur Linc , Calcutta 
432 Buranagar Jute Factory Co . Ltd ., 8 , Clive 

Row , Calcutta 


R . F . 


27, 70 ,491 


Coy . 


1262-63 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


10 , 24 ,457 
59, 26 , 808 
38 ,87,623 
14 , 43 ,016 
11 , 80 ,371 


413 B : 13al E amelWorks Ltd . , 41 , Chowrin 

87cc Road , Calcutta 


1962 -63 
1963- 64 


II, 15 ,991 
12 ,54 ,034 


481 Bangal Electric Lamp Works Ltd ., 7 , Old 

Court Hous St. , Calautta 


1964 -65 
1965 -66 


18 ,09,596 
20 ,27,213 


45 3hurtii Electric Steel Co. Ltd ., 122 , Old 

Court House Corner, Calcutta. . 
436 BirlaJute Mfg . Co. Ltd ., 15 , India Exchange 

Place , Culcutta 


1962 -63 


12 ,98 ,676 


1964 - 65 


1965 - 66 


15 , 56 ,209 
91, 77 , 305 
1 , 48, 29 ,860 


1966 - 67 


I ) : 5 - 6 ; 


1 , 77 ,42,750 


481 Braithwilt & Co . Pvt. L 4 ., 5 , Hile Rd ., 

Calcuta . 
488 Bruthweig h , Burin & Jesso ) Construc 

tionC ). Lt l., P - 1 ),Mission Row Bxtn ., 

Calcutta . 
48 ) Bridg & RoofCu. Ltd ., 21 ,Netaji Subhas 

Ruit , Calcutta 


1955 - 56 


22 ,02 ,218 


5 )57-65 
1965 -66 
1966 -57 


20 35 . 314 
23 ,34 ,664 
24,39 ,695 


49 ) British India Electric Construction Co . 

Ltd ., 21, Nocaji Subhas Road , Calcutta . 


1963 - 6 
1964- 65 


114 ,37 , 581 
52, 89 ,392 


1965- 66 
1963-64 


110 ,05, 720 
1 , 70 , 11 ,653 


496 Budge Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., 8 , Clive Row , 

Calcutta . 
492 Birge & Co . Ltd ., 12, Mission Rw. Cal. 
493 Calcutta Electric Supply Co. Ltd ., Victoria 

House, Calcutta . . : : . 
496 Calcutta Steel Co . Ltd ., 4 , Old Court 

H180 St., Calcutta . 


1961-65 
1965- 66 


2 , 94 , 95 ,629 
1 ,60 , 36 , 462 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -6 ) 


139 ,90 ,478 
54, 87 , 741 
2 ),92,918 


495 CarrittMyran & Co. Lt 1., 9 ,Mission Row , 
496 Chariot Jute MillsCo.Ltd .,8, Clive Row , 

Calcutta 


1962-63 


11 ,38 , 137 


” 


1963-64 
1964 -65 


41, 33 , 046 
30375 ,698 
112 ,95 , 592 


1965 - 66 


497 ColesCrancsof India Pvt. Ltd ., 1. Taratalla 

Road , Garden Reach , Calcutta . , . 


1965 -66 
1966 - 67 


23, 85,066 
37 79 , 357 
25, 96 ,440 
21, 15 ,132 


1965 - 66 


1966 -67 


14, 07, 761 


493 Conventry spring & 2185. Co . (P ) Ltd., 

23 ,Ginesh Chandra Avenue, Calcutta. 
499 Cittok Electric Supply Ltd ., 14 , Old 

Court House St. , Calcutta . 
500 Delta Jure Mfg . Co . Ltd ., 8 , Clive Row , 

Calcutta 
sol Devid Song of India Pvt. Ltd ., 10 , Middle 

Ton Row , Calcutta . . . . 
502 Dishergart Power Supply Co . Ltd ., 
8 , Clive Row , Calcutta 

. . 


1961 -63 
1964-65 
1965 -66 
1966 -61 
1962- 63 


39 ,83, 558 
10 , 82 ,965 
15 , 34 ,610 


” 


» 


14 : 31,011 


Štc. $( ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / jYaISTHA 18, 1890 


2883 


503 Furtzlaster Industries Ltd ., 21, Strand 
Road , Calcutta . 

. . . 


Coy , 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965-66 


22, 08 , 210 
187 , 86 ,678 
36 , 67, 165 
40 ,99,415 


1963- 64 
1966 -67 


135,69 ,897 
13 , 10 ,660 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 - 65 
1965 - 66 


82 ,36 , 321 
147 ,41, 762 
148 ,87, 763 
121, 59 ,032 


5 ) Fortwilliam Company Ltd ., 14 , Netaji 

Subhas Rd ., Caloutta 
505 G .B .C . (I dia ) Pvt . Ltd ., 6 , Cittaranjan 

Avoquo , Calcutta . 
506 G . R . C .tuondon ) Ltd ., 6 , Chittaranjan 

Avenue , Calcutta 
597 Gang : Manufacturing Co . Ltd ., 11 , 

Rabindre Warini, Calcutta . . . 
503 Ganges Rope Co. Ltd ., 2 , Fairly Place , 

Calcutta . . . 
509 GolecalBlectric Co. of India Manufacturing 

Co. Ltd., 6 , Chittaranjan Avenue , 
Calcutta . , 

. . . 
510 Gaccally discial societvltl., 15 , 1g dia 

& xcoenge Pl .co , Calcutta , 


» 


1963 - 6 , 
1964 -03 


80 , 18 , 139 
34 ,73 ,857 
16 ,28 , 129 


1966 -67 


» 


1962 -63 


131,03,519 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 


16 , 10 ,740 
13,62,36 ) 


1965-66 
1962-63 
1964- 6 ; 


591 Gastetor Duplicators Pvt. Ltd ., 9 - A , 

Bapla jado East, Calcutta . 
512 Gyuripur Company Ltd ., 2 , Fairly Place , 

Calcutta . 
513 Heattey & Graism Limited , 31 , Chittaran 

jan .svogue , Calcutta . 
514 Hestiugs Mills Co . Limited , 14 , Hesting: 

St. , Calcutta . . . . . . 
$ 15 Hiddusthan Dovelopmont Corpn . Ltd., 

Caloutta . 
516 Hollinan Manufacturing Co. Itd., 

C /o Sarp Taman BAR of 
Baroja Bldys,Appoll Street,Bombay . 


46,94 ,683 
12, 39,808 
10 ,07, 184 
19 ,98 , 738 
16 , 52 , 163 


» 


1965 -66 
1 )66 -67 


1962 -63 


18 ,75,743 


1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


11 , 27 ,214 
12 ,19 , 267 
12, 36, 130 


517 Horlicks Co. Ltd ., C /o Lovolo . k & Lewis , 

4 , Lyons Rago, Calcutta . 
518 Howrah Iron & StcolWorks ( P ) Ltd ., 90 , 

Boqaras Road , Salkia, Howrah . . 
519 Howrah Mills Company Limited , 4 , Cliv : 

Row , Calcutta . 


1966 -67 
1965- 66 
1963 -64 
1964 - 6 ; 
1965-66 
1966 -67 


11,47,961 
10 , 36 ,448 
50,51,670 
43 ,07, 221 
29 ,51,752 
27, 45 , 590 


1962- 63 


12 ,79 ,874 


520 H .,kumchand Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., 9 , 

Brabourro Road , Calcutta . 
521 Indian Cables Co . Ltd ., 9 , Harc St. , 

Calcutta . . . . . . 
522 Indian Foils Co. Ltd ., II , Swterkin Road , 

Calcutta . 
523 Indian Iron & Steel Co, Limited , 12 ,Mis- 

sion Row , Calcutta . . . . . 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1,91, 14 ,337 
1 , 54 ,01, 765 


» 
» ] 


1964 -65 
1961-62 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 


152,03, 558 
6 ,40 ,08, 317 
8 , 49, 57 ,121 
7 , 23,67,826 


524 Indian Jute Co. Limited , 16 , Strand Road , 
Calcutta . 

. . . . . 


] 


1962 -63 


22 , 93 , 125 


2884 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


(Part 11 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


1 ,42 , 56 , 313 
78 ,08 ,290 


525 Indian Standard Wagon Co . Ltd ., 12 , 

Mixgion Row , Calcutta . . . . 
526 Indian Steel & Wire Products (P ) Ltd ., 

7 , Wellesly , Place , Calcutta . 
327 Indrapingh & Sons Pvt. Ltd ., 7, Wollosly 

Placo , Calautta . . . . . 


1963- 64 


26, 26 ,459 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


31,74 , 315 
42, 05 , 512 


528 J. Stone & Company (India ), P . Ltd ., 

16 , Taratalla Street , Calcutte: ona 
529 Joy Bagineering Works Ltd . , 183 - A , 

Pelace Anwar Shaw Road, Calcutta . . 
530 Kaklgarab Company Limited , 4 , Clive 

Bow , Calcytte . 


1965 -66 
1962 -63 


74 , 74 ,604 
56 ,3° ,847 


531 Kamarbati Co. I td ., 


Do. 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


$ 3 , 75 , 114 
$ 1 ,40 , 298 
12 ,37, 538 
45 , 75 ,305 
46 , 80 ,835 
21,63, 163 
21,28 ,040 


1962 -63 


30 , 74 , 930 


Do . 


12 , 37 , 706 


532 M8, Karam Chand Thapar & Bros . (P ) 

Ltd . , 25 , Brabourne Road , Calcutta . . 
533 Khandolval Bros . Pvt. Ltd ., 33 , Netaji 

Subhas Road , Calcutta . . 
534 Kbardah Company I imited , 7 , Wallodly 

Place , Caloytta . 
535 Kilburn & Co . Ltd ., 2 , Pairly Placo, Cal. : 
536 Lagon Jute Manufacturing Co . I td ., 24 - B , 

Park Street, Calcythe . 
537 Ludlow Jute Co. Ltd ., 6 , Little Ragsald 

Street, Calcutta . . . . . 


1964 -65 
1963 -64 


28 ,54 ,592 
24 , 48 , 175 
77 ,80 ,885 


1965 - 66 


1962 - 63 
T963 -64 


37, 59 ,725 
79 , 54 , 799 


528 Martin Burn & Co . Ltd ., 12 ,Mission Row , 

Calcutta . 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 
1964 -65 


82, 66 , 561 
1 ,01,74 , 403 
1,01, 16 , 097 
26 , 29 ,000 


539 N . B . Phillips , 4 , Lyons Raoge , Calcutta . 
540 National Engineering Industries Ltd ., 15 , 

India Exchange Place , Calcutta . , 


1958 - 59 
1959 -60 
1960 -61 
1962 - 63 


21,70 ,022 
23, 39 ,439 
11 , 56 ,077 
54 , 70 , 622 


541 Patna Electric Supply wo. Ltd ., 14 , Old 

Court Hovso Stroot, Calcutta . ; 
542 Paterson Engipoering Co . Pvt. Ltd ., 28 , 

Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta , 
543 Phillips India Ltd ., 7 , Justice Chandra 

Madhab Road , Calcutta . 


10 ,11,629 
14 , 14 ,811 


1966 -67 
1964 -65 
1962 - 63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 


71 , 54 , 525 

,40, 88, 535 
1 , 94 , 76 ,620 


1962 - 63 


Do . 


Do. 


544 Pipsop & Co .Ltd ., 6 ,Old Court House St., 

Calcutta . 
545 RalliosIndia Ltd ., 16 ,Haro St., Calcutta. 
546 Romington Rand of India Ltd ., 3 , Council 

House St., Calcutta . 
547 S . M . Sex Pvt. Ltd. , 2 , Dalbougie Savare 

Bast , Calcutta . . 
548 Sankmi Electrical Co . Ltd ., 17, Brabourne 

Road , Calcutta . 
549 Ser Releighs & Co. Ltd . ,Mercantile Build 

ing , Calcutta . . . . . . 


1959 - 60 
1962- 63 


21,40 ,010 
56 , 83 ,464 
67, 37, 820 
10 , 12,092 
53,58, 576 
29 , 54 ,245 
15 , 19 ,082 
19 , 18 ,612 


1963 -61 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


Src. 3(il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


2885 


1962-63 


19 , 09 , 513 


550 Shree Ambica Jute Mills Ltd , 23 , Notaji 

Subhas Rd., Calcutta , 
551 M /s. Shree Gopal Paper Mills Ltd ., 25, 

BrgbournoRoad , Calcutta . 
552 Shreo Lakshinarayan Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., 

39 , Notaji Subhas Road , Calcutta . 


43, 80 ,912 


Do . 
1963 - 64 
1964 -65 


” 


10 , 10 ,775 
12, 31 ,835 


22 , 32 , 196 


553 Titagach Jute Factory Ltd., 3,Clive Row , 

Calcutta . 
1554 Tractors India Limited ,i. Taratolla Road , 

Calcutta . 


1964- 65 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


33 , 49 ,021 
18 , 28 ,460 
27, 12 ,760 


44, 18 ,770 
21,21, 408 


555 Universal Cables Co . Ltd ., 15 . India Ex 

change Place , Calcutta . 
$ 56 Usha Salos Pyt. Ltd ., Gariahat Road , 

Calcutta . 
$ 57 WostBengalFinancidalCorporation , P - 23 , 

Rajendranath Mukherjee Road , Calcutta 
558 Wostingbousc Saxły & Fart cr Ltd . , 

17. Convent Boud , Calcutta . . 


1966 -67 
1967 - 63 
1966 -67 
1965-66 


12 ,96 , 375 


$ 3 , 70 , 730 


1962-63 


22 , 34 ,865 


West Bengal-- 11 
559 Amalgmated Coulfields LCD., 4 ,Bankshall 

Street, Calcutto . 
580 Assam Dooars Tea Co. Ltd . , 31, Netaji 

Subhas Road , Calcutta . . . . 
561 Assum Frontier Tea Co. Itd ., 4 , Bapkshall 

Street , Calcutta . , . 


1965-66 
1966 -67 


12 ,07, 545 
13 , 15 ,650 


» 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


20 ,48 ,257 
15 , 19 , 341 
12 ,29, 360 


1962 - 63 


>> 


562 Balmer I gvrie & Co , Ltd ., 21 , Netaji 

Subhas Roud , Calcutta . . , 
563 Paok of China ( in liquidation ) 
564 Barorec Coke Co . I td ., 4 , Clive Pow , Cal. 


Do, 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 
1963- 64 


47. 93 , 508 
13 :37 , 768 
12 ,70 , 386 
10 ,34 , 505 
81,60 , ITS 


1966 -67 


25, 16 ,740 


565 Bengal Coal Co . Ltd ., 8 , Clive Row Cil. . 
566 Birla Gwalior (T ) Ltd ., 15 , India Exchange 

Place , Calcutta . 
567 Brooke Bond Co. Ltd., , Metcall Street, 

Calcutta . 
568 Brooke Bond India (r ) i td ,, Do . . 
569 Calcutta Discounting Co . I td ., 8 , Clive 

Row , Calculta . 


Do . 
1963 -64 


71, 12 , 500 
1 , 75275 , 580 


1964- 65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


29, 91 ,387 
20 ,70 , 505 
18 , 80 , 112 


1962- 63 


18 ,61, 120 


570 Central India Coalfields I td ., 8, RoyalFx 

change Place , Calcutta . 
S71 Central India Industries Ltd . , IS, India 

Exabango Place , Calcutta . , 
572 Chloride Overseas Ltd ., 4 , Lyone Bange , 

Calcutta . , . , . 


1966 -67 


22 ,26 ,890 


» 


1963 - 64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


10 , 50 , 000 
10 , 50 ,000 
10 , 50 ,000 
11 , 55 ,000 


573 Clovodon Teu Co. Ltd ., 101, Clivo Row , 

Calcutta . 
574 Clive Row IyvestmentHolding Co. itd , . 


37 


1966 -67 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 - 66 


11 , 40 , 447 
16 ,03 , 664 
16 , 73 , 365 
14 , 99 , 171 
12 ,01, 102 


man 


2886 


. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/ JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[Takt 11 – 


575 Commonwealth Developmont & Pinanco 

Corp . Ltd . , Chartered Bank Bulld 
inge, Calcutta . . . . . . 


CO . 


1964-65 
1965 -66 
1966 -67 


15 , 99 , 173 
19 , 14 ,031 
21,03,262 


576 Diamond Products Ltd ., 4 , Cliva Row , 


Calautta . 


1965 - 66 
1966 -67 


13 ,08, 393 
12 , 19 , 520 


38 ,60 ,040 
45,61, 491 
11 ,60 ,816 
10 ,04, 106 


577 Dagcan Bros Ltd .,31, Netaji Subhas Pd ., 
Calcutte . 

• . . » 
578 M /s . Bastorn Blectric Trading Co . Firm 
579 Bagt India Coal Co. Ltd ., 4 , Clive Row , 

Calcutta . 
$ 80 Empire & India Ceylon Tod Co . Ltd ., Clive 
581 Bquitable Coal Co. Ltd.,2, Fairlio Place, ” 

Calautta . 
582 Gillanders Arbuthnot, Gillander House, .. . 

Calcutte . 
583 Gowalior Commercial Co. Ltd ., 8 , India 

Exchange Placo, Calcutta . , . . 


1963-64 
1964 -65 
1962 -63 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Da. 


11,09 ,041 
26 ,69 , 778 
28,62, 202 


Firm 


Co . ) 


1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


10 , 31 ,072 
11 ,03 , 787 
14 ,99, 196 


$ 84 Harbanslel Malhotra & Sons (P ) Ltd ., 18 , 

"Netaji Subhas Boad , Calcutta . . . 


» 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 


32 ,79, 406 
42, 17, 621 


1962 -63 


Do. 


585 Hashimura Industrial Ltd ., 3 & 7 Netaji 

Subbes Road , Calcutta . 
586 M /s.Howrah Wira Industries, 59, Capninis 

Street , Calcutta . 
587 Iodia Linoleum : "Ltd . 14 , Radhabazar 

Street, Celautta . 
588 Indle Paper Pulp Co. Ltd ., 8 , CliveRow , 

Calcutta . 


23, 14 ,880 
112 , 29 ,491 
19,69, 239 


1965-66 


1964 -65 
1965- 66 


40 ,42, 668 
27,84, 870 


1963 -64 


11 , 20 , 566 


589 Industrial Copteinors I td ., 21, Notaji Su 

bbas Road , Calcutta . 
590 Industrial Trust Ltd ., 15 , India Exchange 

Place, Calcutta . 
591 J. Thomas & Co . (P ) Ltd ., II , R . N .Mu- 

kharjoa Road , Calcutta . 
592 James Finalay & Co. Ltd., 2 , N . Ş. Road , 

Calcutta . . . . . . Co . 


1966 -67 


10 ,66 ,600 


1965- 66 
1966 -67 
1963 -64 
1964 -65 
1965 -66 


14 , 62 ,065 
18 ,67, 580 
17 , 83 , 002 
48 ,97, 864 
18 , 85, 931 


20 ,66 ,421 


1963 -64 
1962-63 


Do. 


14 ,95, 336 
11,49, 960 


593 Jayashree Toxtile & Iod . Ltd ., 15 , India 

Exchange Placo, Calcutta . . . 
594 Jewanlal( 1929 ) Ltd ., 23 , Brabourne Road , 

Calcutta . 
395 Jhagrakband Collieries (P ) Lid .. 
596 Thouston (Pumps ) India Ltd ., 2 , Fairlie 

Place Calcutta . . . . . 
$ 97 Jorhat Tea Co . Ltd ., 
198 Karanpura Colllery Ltd., Chartored Bank 

Buildings, Calcutta . . 
599 Ketelwall Bullen & Co. Ltd ., 21, Strand 
100 Kettle Bullen & Co . Do . 

Kunırdhubl Fireclay Silica Worko Ltd ,, 

Chartered Bank Buildings , Calcutta . . 


1965 -66 
1962 - 63 


17 , 26 ,948 
13 ,29 ,752 


18, 71 ,633 


599 


Road, Calcutta . 


- Do. 


1965 -66 

Do. 
1966 -67 
1963-64 
1964-65 


18 , 13 ,752 
17 ,02 ,410 


21 , 12 ,037 
14 , 37 ,626 


Sec . 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18, 1690 


2887 


5 


13,08 , 945 
20 , 33,867 


12 , 58,689 


602 Kusum Products Ltd.,Guru Gordon Road, 

Rishre ,Hooghly . 
603 Lackatooreh Tcs Co . Ltd ., 1 & 2 ,Old Court 

House Street, Calcutta . 
604 Lipton (India ) Ltd ., 9/ 13, Weston Street, 

Calcutta . . . . . » 
605 Lovelock & Lewes, 4 , LyoggRango, Cal , Firm 
626 Mac oil Berry Ltd . , 2 , Fairlio Placo Cal. . Co . 1 
607 New Beerbhum Coal Co . Ltd., 8 , Clive 

Row , Calcutta . 
608 New Samanbagh Tea Co . Ltd ., 1,Baxkshall 

Street , Calcutta . 
609 Orient Paper Mills Ltd., 15, India 

Exchange Place, Calcutta , 


1963 -64 
1964-65 
1963-64 
1963 -64 
1965-66 
1966 -67 
1962-63 


55, 88, 064 
26 , 56 ,025 
11 ,46 ,590 
41,27,628 
18 , 33 ,827 


Do . 


1963 -64 


12 , 78 ,825 


* 


415 4LR . 


. 


. 


1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1964- 65 


1 ,31,05, 691 
1 ,40, 84 ,500 
1 ,04, 81 ,379 


1962-63 
1963-64 


52 , 97 ,551 
55, 85 ,058 


1966 -67 


10 , 79 , 903 


cutta 


1966 -67 


27, 66 ,640 


10 , 14 , 822 


1964 -65 
1962 -63 
1963 -64 
1962 - 63 


16 , 10 , 158 


24 , 11, 055 
11 , 38 , 280 


11,50 , 383 


610 Pilani Investment Corpn. Ltd ,, 15 , 

India Exchange Place, Calcutta , 
611 Price Waterhouse Peat (P ) Ltd ., E -4 , 

Clive Row , Calcutta 
612 Punjab Producc and Trading Co . Ltd ,. 

15, India Exchange Place , Cal 
613 Pure Kustorc Collieries (P ) Lt 

Lyong Range , Calcuta . 
614 Raghunath & Sons, Pr, Ltd , 7/9, Clive 

Row , Calcutta 
615 Rewa Coalfields Ltd ., 4 , Bankshall 

St ., Calcutta . . . . 
616 M /s. " Rolls Print Co . 

. 

Firm 
617 Salonah Tea Co . Ltd., 10 , Strand 

Road , Calcutta 
618 Sch Lumberger Seaco Inc ., 29 , Netaji 

Subhas Road , Calcutta . . . 
619 Singlo Tea Co . Ltd ., 8, Netaji Subhas 

Road , Calcutta 
520 The Phosphate Co-Ltd ., 14, Nelaji 

Subhas Road, Calcutta 
021 Thomas Duff & Co . ( I) Ltd ., 3 , Clive 

Roy, Calcutta 
522 Tungabhadra Industries Ltd ., 15 , India 

Exchang Place, Calcutta 
623 Upp : Aszam Tea Co . Ltd., 2, 

Fairlie Placc , Calcuita . 
624 Watcm B : ngel Coalfields Ltd ., 

Royal Exchang : Place, Calcul.tal . 

WEST BENGAL III 
625 Albert David Ltd ., I5 , Chittaranjan 

Avinu , Cicli ye 
626 Alkali & Chemical Corpn , of India Lid ., 

34 ,Chowringhec Road , Calcutta 1 . 
627 Aluminium Mfg. Co. Ltd , 2 , Tessore ] 

Road, Calcuta 
628 Annapurna Cotton Mills Ltd ., P / 7 , 

New Howrah Bridge Approach 

Road , Calcutta ? 
629 Bharat Commerce & Industries Ltd ., 

19 , Parsec Church St., Calcutta 


1965-66 
1964-65 
1965 -66 
1962- 63 
1960- 61 


12 , 31 , 559 
10 ,05, 433 


1964 -65 


" 10 ,31 .232 

15 ,09 ,036 
25 ,07,854 
12,21, 806 
11, 97,516 


1965 -66 
1966 -67 


10 , 95 ,211 


a 


1962 -63 
1953-64 


13, 08 ,304 


1962 -63 
1962-63 
1965- 66 


13,82,474 
131, 49 ,807 


10 ,02 , 909 


1963-64 
1962 - 63 


36 ,94 ,623 
18 ,23,016 


2888 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 1A , 1890 


[ PART II 


12 , 56 ,211 


1966 -67 
1962- 63 
1966 -67 


41 , 70 , 310 
11,44 ,050 


1962 -63 


18 , 52 ,013 


1965-66 


11,20,000 


24 , 30 ,210 


1966 -67 
1965-66 


21 ,81, 249 


1962 -63 


10 ,64 ,823 


630 Bharat Sugat M Ils Ltd . , 8 India Ex 
change Place , Culcutta . 

Company 
631 Birla Cotton Spg, & Wvg . Mills Ltd ., 

IS India , Exchange Place , Calculla 
632 Bowreah Cotton Mills Co. Ltd ., 21, 

Strand Road , Calcutta 
633 Carew & Co. of Old Court House 

St., Calcutta 
634 Chittaranjan Cotton M 118 Ltd ., B - 5, 

Clive Buildings, Calcutta 
635 Dey s Medical Stores, (Mfg .) (P ) Ltd . 

6 /2B , Lindsay St. , Calcutta 
636 Dunbar Mlls Ltd ., 21 Strand Road 

Calcutta 
637 Eastern National Construction Co. (P) 

Ltd ., P - 15/ 1, Chowringhee Square , 

Calcutta . 
639 Eyr : Smelting (P ) Ltd ., S, Hyde 

Rial, Culcutta 
632 Gyragham Scraven (P ) Ltd ., 22 Gobra 

Řal, Calcutta 
612 Grand Sugar Co. Ltd ,, 8 , India Ex - 

change Place , Calcul a . . . 
641 Granophone Co Ltd ., 33, Jessore 

Road, Calcutta 
512 Grannies Ltd ., 21 , Rupchand Roy 

S ., Calcutta . . . . 
613 Hayward Wallie Refinery Lid ., 

P . O . K9111g1 , str.H oly 
644 Hindusthan Steel Works Constn , 

Ltd ., 3 / 1 , Commissariat Road , 

Calcutta - 22 
645 I. C . I. (India ) Pvt. Ltd ., 34 Chow 

ringhec Road , Calcutta 
646 Imperical Chemical Industries Ltd ., 

(London ), C /o M /9 . 1. C . J. (India ) 
Pvt. Ltd ., 34 , Chowringhee Road , 


1963 -64 
1963-64 
1966 -67 


18 ,47, 160 
17 ,05 ,018 


12 , 57 , 190 


1955 -66 


15 ,26 ,293 


1962 -63 


11,46 ,016 


1965-66 


13,67,366 


1966 -67 


1,06 , 24,860 


1962 -63 


15, 20 , 92 ,486 


Calcutta 


1966 - 67 


1,71,32, 942 


1962- 63 


12 ,00 ,000 


1962- 63 


24 ,00 ,177 
61,60,827 


1962-63 


1962 -63 


1 ,03, 77 ,212 


1964 -65 


1 , 20, 42 ,028 


647 India Cycle Mfg . Co Ltd ., 7A , Tiljoja 

R911, Cilcuta 
619 Indian Explosives Ltd ., 34 , Chow 

ringhee Road , Calcutta , . . 
617 Taglit Cotton Textile Mule Ltd ., 25, 

Brabourne Road , Gilcurta 
657 Tiyaj erao Cotton Mills Ltd ., 15 , 

Izlia Exchange Place , Criculta . 
651 Kesoram Industries & Cotton Mills Ltd ,, 

15, Ilia Exchange Plac , Calcutta 
652 Mackintosh Burn Ltd ., Gillander House, 

Calcu ta 
653 Mulnessmann Suipem Pipe Line Consin ., 

2 , Brabourne Road , Calcutta 
654 Meral Box Co. of India Ltd ., 59 / C , 

Chowringhee Road , Calcutta 
655 Metal Box Co. (Overscas ) Ltd ., Clo M /s. 

Metal Box Co. of India Ltd ., 59 /C , 

Chowringhee Road , Calcutta 
656 Mohini Mills Ltd ., 22 , Biplabi Rash 

Bchari Hoge Road , Calcutta 


1965 -66 


10 , 23 ,754 


1964 -65 


18 , 12 ,051 


1964 -65 


1,47, 87 ,681 


1965 -66 


32 , 18 ,022 


1952 -63 


31, 92 ,340 


Sec. 3( il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAIATIA 18 , 1890 


2889 


5 


10 ,31,603 
23 , 20 , 219 


1962 -63 
1966 -67 
1966- 67 
1962- 63 


15,05 , 920 


14 ,25 , 000 


662 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 


13 ,06 ,370 
16, 79 ,516 
16 ,71, 340 


1966 -67 


II, 1 4 , 845 


657 National Sugar Mills Ltd ., 15 Chitta 
ranjan Avenue, Calcutta . . 

Company 
658 Now India Sugar Co , Ltd . , 8 , India 

Exchange Placc , Calcutta 
659 North Behar Sugar Mills Ltd . , India 

Exchange Place , Calcutta 
660 Oriental Rubber Works, 171A , Mahatma 
Gandhi Road , Calcutta 

R . F . 
661 Ramkumar Shew Chandra Rai & Song 

(P ) Ltd ., 3/ 1, K . B . Sen St. 
Calcutta 

Company 
Ramnagar Cane Sugar Co . Ltd., 7, 

Wellesly Place , Calcutta 
663 Rockitt & Colman of India Ltd , 

Choringhee Road , Calcutta 
Reckitt & Colman Holdings Ltd . , Clo 

M /s. Price Water House Peat & Co ., 

B -4 , Gillander House , Calcutta 
665 Shalimar Painty Lid ., 13 , Camac St., 

Caicuta 
665 Shree Bhawani Cotton Mills Ltd ., 8 , 

India Exchange Place , Calcutta 
667 Simplex Concrete Piles ( I ) Ltd ., 103 / 1, 

Dannt Harbour Road , Calcurca 
659 Stewaria & Lyods India Ltd . , 41, 

Chowringhee Road , Calcutta 
663 Sutle Cotton Mills Ltd ., 15 India Exchange 

Place , Calcutta 
670 Upper Ganges Sugar Mills Ltd ., 8 , India 

Exchange Place , Calcutta 
571 The Coppe Co . (G . B .) Ltd ., 2, Mahatma 

Gunthi Road , Calcutta 
572 Wallies Zinc Pigments Ltd ., 8, Netaji 

Subha Road, Calcutta . 
673 W . S . Arking & Partners , 27 , Free School 

St, Calcutta . . . . . AOP 


1962-63 
1962 -63 
1965 -66 
1963 -64 
1963 -64 
1962- 63 


14, 15 ,203 
15, 92 , 262 
28,83, 830 
28 ,05, 812 
11,77 ,381 
25,48 ,568 


12,48,217 


1965-66 
1965-66 
1962- 63 


10 ,21, 102 


37 ,43,833 


10 , 96 ,026 
1,77 ,81,749 


Calcutta 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 
1962- 63 


22, 22 ,000 


41,40 , 86 2 


85, 88 ,474 


CALCUTTA ( Central) 
674 Alliance Jute Mills Co. Ltd ., 3 , Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta , 

Company 
675 Aininchand Payarcial, 135 , Canning 
St., Calcutta 

H . Firm 
676 Angulo Bros. Ltd ., 6 , Lyong Range , 

Company 
877 Ashoka Marketing Ltd ., . 18A , 

Braboumnc Road , Calcutta 
678 Ashoka Viniyoga Ltd ., IB , Old Post Office 

St., Calcutta 
679 B . N . Elias & Co. (P ) Lid ., 1 & 2 , Old 

Court House Corner , Calcutta 
680 Beckar Grey & Co. ( 1930 ) Ltd ., Charted 

Bank Building, Calcutta 
681 Blowra Kankanze Collieries Ltd ., 25, 

Brabourne Road , Calcutta 
692 Bungal Jute Mills Co . Ltd , 8 , Dalhousie 

Sq . East, Calcutta 
683 Bird & Co . Pvt. Ltd ., Chartered Bank 

Building, Calcutta 
694 Bokaro & Rangur Ltd ., 22 , Chittaranjan 

Avenuo, Calcutta 
685 Bunge & Co. Ltd ., 8 , Old Court 

House St. Calcutta 


1962 -63 
1962 -63 
1962-63 
1962-63 


22 , 56 ,400 
30,02 ,000 
10 , 92 ,605 
10 ,32 ,560 


1962 -63 


31, 93 , 000 


10 , 33 , 218 


1962- 63 
1962 -63 


12, 36 ,703 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[PART II 


890 G 


T 


Road , Dealers 


686 Burmah 011 Co . Ltd ., Clo Price Wate 

house , Peat & Co ., 8 , Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta 

Company 1962-63 3,86 , 07 , 500 
687 Carcation Mich Industries Ltd ., 4 , 
Lyons Hange , Calcutta . 

1962-63 32, 60 ,837 
688 D , R . L . Railway Co, Ltd ., II, Clive 
Row , Calcutta 

1962 -63 23,08,847 
689 Forma Brothers 392 , Mint St., 
Madrag 

F [mm 

1962 -63 16, 00,000 
690 G . S . Atwal & Co , (Asangol) R . F . 
G . T . Road , Alsangol 

R . F . 1962 -63 11,00 ,718 
691 General Fibre Dealers Ltd ., India Ex 
change Calcutta 

Company 1962-63 12, 31, 774 
692 Grahams Trading Co . Ltd ., 6 , Lyons 
Range Calcutta 

1962 -63 14, 29 ,000 
693 Heavy Construction Pvt. Ltd ., 6 , Girish 
Avenue Calcutta 

1962- 63 26 ,30 ,078 
694 Hindustan National Glass Mfg . Co. 
Ltd ., 2 , Wellesly Place , Calcutta 

1962-63 22 , 84 ,074 
695 Indian Rubber Manufactures Ltd ., 4 , 
Lyons Range , Calcutia . 

1962 -63 18 , 72 ,962 
606 Tardine Handerson Ltd ., 4 , Clive Row . Cal , I 

1962 -63 26 , 47,559 
697 Helvin Jute Co . Ltd ., 3, Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta 

1962 -63 26 , 31,450 
698 Kumardhubi Enge , Co, Ltd ,, Chartered 
Bank Bldg, Calcutta . 

1962 -63 13,03,000 
699 Lohia Suitania Co . * . 132 , Cotton 
St., Calcutta 

R . F . 

1962- 63 14,62, 888 
700 Louis Drefus & Co , Ltd ., 18A , Bra 
bourne Rd ., Calcutta 

Company 1954 - 55 10 ,90, 289 
701 Md. Serajuddin & Bros., P - IS Bantinck 
St ., Calcutta , 

R . F . 1962 -63 16 ,97, 514 
702 The Moon Mils Ltd ., General Assprance 

Bullding Hornby Road , Bombay Company" 1962 -63 36 ,06 ,260 
703 National Tobacco Co . of ( I) Ltd . , 1 & 2 
Old Court House Corner , Calcutta , 

1962-63 19 ,85 ,384 
704 Mcleod & Co. Ltd ., 5 Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta . . . 

1962 -63 33,63, 351 
705 Oil India Ltd ., Dullagan Ansam 

1962 -63 59,33 ,081 
706 Oriaga Minerals Dev , Co, Ltd ., Char 
tered Bank Building, Calcutta 

1962 -63 23, 54, 000 
707 Parshav Properties Ltd ., II, Clive Row , 
Calcutta 

1962 -63 15 ,67, 310 
708 Reliance Jute Mills Co, Ltd ., 9, Brabourne 
Road, Calcutta 

1962-63 

15 , 43 ,912 
709 Rohtus Industirds Ltd ., II Clive 
Row , Calcutta 

1962 -63 $ 9 ,78 , 357 
710 Sahu Jain Ltd ., II Clive Row 
Calcutta 

1962- 63 25,46, 167 
711 Shell Petroleum Co , Ltd ., Clo M /s. 

Burmah Sheli Oil Storage & Distribu 
ting Co . of India Ltd ., Ballard Estate 
Bombay 

1962- 63 2 , 18 ,07, 500 
712 Sone Valley Portland Ltd ., 11 Clive Row , 
Calcutta 

1962-63 

17, 19 , 106 
713 Srikrishna (Pvt.) Ltd . 20 Mango 
Lane , Calcutta 

1962 -63 12 ,43,652 
714 Surrendra Overseas Ltd . , (formerly 

Surrendra Overseas Pvt . Ltd . ,) 135 , 
Canning St ., Calcutta 

1962-63 39, 58,044 
715 Turner Morrison Co, Ltd ., 6 Lyons 
Range , Calcutta 

1962 - 63 25,01,000 
716 Uttam Singh Dugel & Co . ( Pvt.) Ltd ., 
20 Old Court House St, Calcutta 

1962 - 63 23,06 ,608 
[No. 29 ( F . No. 1/2 /67- IT ( B ). ] 

R . N , MUTTOO , Jt. Sexy , 


Sto .8( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1988 /JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


2891 


( Department of Revome and Insanarco ) 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 8th June 1968 


S . O . 2046. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) ot section 
79 read with sub - section ( 3 ) of section 160 of the Customs Act , ( 52 of 1962 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following rules to further amend the 
Ceylon Baggage Rules published with the notification of the late Central Board 
of Revenue No . 31 - Customs, dated the 30th August, 1930 , namely : 


1. These rules may be called the Ceylon Baggage ( Amendment) Rules, 1968, 


2. In the Ceylon Baggage Rules, for rule 4 , the following rule shall be subs 
tituted , namely : 


" 4 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in rule ( 1 ) and subject to 

the exceptions specified in rule ( 2 ) , the unaccompanied baggage of 
a passenger may be passed free if imported within seven working 
days before or after his arrival : 


Provided that the proper officer may pags free any unaccompanied bag 

gage imported before or after the said period if he is satisfied that 
there are sufficlent grounds for not importing the said baggage with 
in the period aforesaid ." 


[ No. 86 / F .No. 10 /6 /68 - LC . II .) 


ORDER 


STAMPS 


New Delhi, the 1st June 1968 


3 . 0 . 2047,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of sub -sectior 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty with which the ad - hoc bonds to the value of sixty 
seven lakhs of rupees to be issued by the Haryana Financial Corporation , are 
chargeable under the said Act. 


[No. 8 / 88 — F . No. 1/ 28 /68- Cus.VII / Stamps. ) 


M S SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy. 


2892 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART FI 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 


(Securities Dopartment) 


CENTRAL 


New Delhi, the 10th April 1968 
S . O . 2048 The following list of Government Securities etc. in the custody of the Reserve 
Bank of India , New Delhi, as on the 318t December 1967 deposited under paragraph 101 of the 
Government Securities Manual (3rd Edition ) is published for the information of officers concer 
ned . Any discrepancy in the list should be brought to the notice promptly . 


Item 


No . 


Delhi!Now Delhi, 
Chief Commissioner, Delhi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Chief Engineer, C .P . W . D ., New Delhi, 
District & Sessions Judgo, Delhi. 
Deputy Commissioner, Delhi. 
Director, Indian Council of Medical Research ,New Delhi. 
The Director General , Indian Council of Medical Research , Medical Enclave ( Ansari 
Nagar ) New Delhi, . 

. . . . . . . . . 4LOO 
Secretary to the Govt . of India ,Ministry of Home Affairs ,New Delhi . . . 
Director General , All India Radio , New Delhi. . . . . . . . 13 
Hony , Treasurer, All India Women s Education Fund Assn ., New Delhi. 
Director (Coordination & Statistics) Directorate General of Supplies & Disposals, N .I. C . 
Building , New Delhi. . 

. . 14 to 17 
Director General of Archacology in India ,New Delhi. . . . . . . . 
Officer Commanding , 140 Medium Regt. ( TA ) Clo . 56 A . P. O . . 
Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. . . 

· · 38 to 41 
Financial Adviser & Chief Accounts Officer, Northern Rly ., New Delhi. . . . 22 
Land Development Officer ,New Delhi. . . . . . . . 8 
Chief Director of Purchases , Ministry of Food & Agriculture , Army Purchase 
Organisation , New Delhi. , 

• 27 , 27( a ) 
Pay & Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi.. . . . 29 to 35 
Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Defence,New Delhi. . . . . 7 
Vice President an ! Ai litional Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research , 

New Delhi, . . 


: 


: 


10 


Gorakhpur 
Financial Adviser & Chicf Accounts Officer, North Eastern Railway,Gorakhpur. 


. 18 , 19 , 20 

23 , 24 


Meerut 
Controller of Defence Accounts, Central Command , Meerut , 


. 


. 


. 


, 


II 


SRQ $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2893 


NAIS 


Bareilly 
General Olacer Commanding, H . Q . U .P . Area , Bareilly . . . . . . 
Secretary to the Govt. of India, Ministry of Finance, Deptt. of Economic Affairs , New 

Delhi, 


42-43 


CENTRAL 
Securities held by the Reserve Bank of India, New Delhi, as on the 31st December, 1967 Deposited under Paragrafi lor of the Government Securities 

Maral erd Edition .) 


2894 


Sedal 


Administrators 


Depositos 


4 % Loan 4 % Loan 4 % Loan 4 % Madras 51 % 
1981 1979 1972 Loan 1971 1992 


No . 


3 % Loan 
1970 - 75 


I Director, Indian Council of Me 

dical Rescarch , New Delhi. 


. . 


1,48 ,200 


Do. 


02 


Parlakimedi Trust Fund 
ELtd . Col Amir Chend Trust 

Fund . . . 


Do. 


. ] 


4 The Director General, Indian Raptakos MedicalResearch 

Council of Medical Research , Board Trust Fund, . . 
Medical Endre, Ansari 
Negar , New Delhi. 
Do 

ECOL Amir Chand Trust Fund . 
Do 

Metalapalam Pemimatechayeri } 

Family Trust Fund . . . 
71 Secretary to the Govt. of India , 4oth Cavalry Regiment Scholar . 
- Ministry of Defence , New ship Fund . . . . 

Delhi. 
8 Land Development Officer , New Annual Rent of Shri Sanatan 
Delhi. j 

Dharma Sabha , Lakshmi Na 
rain Temple Trust and Buddhist 
Tampk . 

. . 
9 Director General of Archaeology Registrar , University of Cakutta 

in India , New Delhi. 
( 10 ), Vice President & Additional Sec - Indian Council of Agricultural 

retary , Indian Council of Agri - Research . . . . . 36 ,07,000 
cultural Research , New Delhi. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/İYAISTHA18,1894 


(rartif 


8,22400 19, 52 , 800 


. 


. 


1979, 800 70,63.500 


Sec.$(ü)] 


157 


11 Controfier ofDefence Accounts , Sir Pratap Singh Memorial Scho 

Central Command , Meerut. larship Trust Fund . . 
12 ] Chief Commissioner, Delhi. Itmaduddaula Endowment Fund 
13 ]. Director General, A . I.R ., New M /s. Free India (P ) Limited , 
thi. 

Madras. . . " 
14 ].Director (Coordination & Statis - Gujarat State Electricity Board , 

tics ), D . G . S . & D . N . I . C . Boroda . . . . . 
Bidg ., New Delhi. 
Do. 

Municipal Commissioner, for 

Greater Bombay. . . 
Do. . . . Maharashtra Housing Board . . 
Do . 

· Punjab State Electricity Board , 

Patiala . . . . . . 
18 ] Financial Adviser & Chief Acc - M /s. Dyer Meakin Breweries Ltd . 

ounts Officer , North Eastern 

Railway, Gorakhpur. . . 
[ 19 Do. 

Mis. Sramjivi Stores. . . 
Don . . . M / s. Dey Bose & Co ., Calcutta . 


( 16 ] 


17 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYASTHA18,1550 


20 


S 


te 


LLU 


2895 


2896 


Serial 
No. 


Administrators 


Depositor 


Total 


4 % Guj- 3 % Conver- 4 % Bombay 41 % Bombay 57 % Loan 
arat Loan sion 1946 Loan , 1971 Loan 1971 1990 

1969 


I Director , Indian Council ofMe 

dical Research , New Delhi. . 


15325.400 


16 , 73,600 


Do. 


. 


. 


. Parlakimedi Trust Fund . 


. 


1,61,400 


1961,400 


Do. 


. 


. 


. Ltd . Col . Amir Chand Trust 

Fund . . . . . 


34 ,800 


34 ,800 


4 


The Director General, Indian Raptakos Medical Research 

Council of Medical Research , Board Trust Fund . . . 
Medical Enclave, Ansari Na 
gar, New Delhi, 


91 , 200 


94, 600 


. 


Do. . 


. 


. Col. Amir Chand Trust Fund . . 


3 , 900 


- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAIŞTHÁ18,1890 


Do . 


. 


. 


Metalapalam Penumatechavari 

Family Trust Fund , 


5 ,900 


7 Secretary to the Govt of India , 40th Cavalry Regiment Scholar 

Ministry ofDefence, New Delhi ship Fund . , . . 


4 , 300 


21, 200 


8 Land Development Officer , Ney Annual Rent of Shri Sanatan 
Delhi. . . . . Dharma Sabha, Lakshmi Nar 

ain Temple Trust and Buddhist 
temple. . . . . 


11, 300 


11, 300 


9 Director General of Archaeology Registrar , University of Calcutta , 

in India , New Delhi. . 


2, 000 


. . 


2 , 000 


10 


. . 


1, 26 ,25, 500 


= 


Vice President & Additional Indian Council of Agricultural 

Secretary , Indian Council of Research , 
Agricultureal Research , New 
Delhi, 


[PartIt 


= 


1,22, 600 
1, 999500 


1, 22 ,800 
1,90,500 


Sua{In] 


5 ,000 


2 ,00 ,000 


2 , 00 , 000 


II Controller of Defence Accounts, Sir Pratap Singh Memorial 

Central Command ,Meerut. Scholarship Trust Fund 
12 Chief Commissioner , Delhi Itmaduddaula Endowment Fund 
13 Director General, A . I. R ., New M /s. Free India (P ) Limited , 
Delhi. 

Madras . . . . . 
14 Director (Coordination & Sta - Gujarat State Electricity Board , 

tistics ), D . G . S . & D . N . I. C . Baroda. . . . . 
Building, New Delhi, 
Do . . . . Municipal Commissioner for 

Greater Bombay . . . 
Do. . . . Maharashtra Housing Board . 
Do . . . . Punjab State Electricity Board , 

Patiala . . . . . 
18 Financial Adviser & Chief M /s. Dyer Meakin Breweries . 

Accounts Officer , North East - Ltd . 
ern Railway, Gorakhpur . . 

Do. , . . M /s. Sramjivi Stores. . . 
Do. . . . M /s.Dey Bose & Co., Calcutta, 


30 


3, 00 , 000 


2 ,00 ,000 


2,00 , 000 


25 ,000 


5 ,000 


.. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


1 ,000 


1 , 300 


1 , 300 


169 


Serial 
No. 


Administrators 


Depositor 


4 3 /4 % 31/2 % 51/2 % 
Loan Boods Bibar 
1989 1968 1977 


4 . 1/4 % 
N D . 
Bonds 
1972 


4 % 
1972 


3 % 33/4 % 
1970 - 75 1974 


3 % 
Con 


2898 


3 % 41/4 % 
1896 - 97 Biber 

1972 


. 


. 


S1000 


50100 


99000 


21000 


47000 


21 Chief Engineer , C . P . W .D ., Contractor s A /c . 

Ords Ac. 
New Delhi, 
22 Financial Adviser & Chief 

Accounts Officer, Northern 
Rly ., New Delhi 

Do , 
23 F . A ., & C . A . O . North Eastern Do. 1 

Ry ., Gorakhpur. 


.. 
10500 


. 


50000 


- 


200 


55200 


. . 


243700 
57000 


. . 
2000 


30000 


Do. 

• Gort Servants 
25 District & Sessions Judge , Sis GaajGurdwara , 

Delhi. 
26 Deputy Commissioner , Delhi Mirza Latafat Hussain 

Tehsil Bailiff, 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/NAISTHA18,1890 


100000 


27 Chief Director of Purchase , Contractors . 

Ministry of Food & Agriculture , 

Amy Purchase Organisation , 

New Delhi, 
27 ( A ) 

M /s . Hindustan De 

velopment Corpore 
tion Ltd , Calcurta . 


Do. 


Do. 


28 Officer Commanding 140 Me 

dium Regiment ( TACO 
56 A . P . O ). 


29 P , & LOMO Food & Agri- M & Malm Vanaspati 
culture , New Delhi, 

& Chemical Co. Ltd ., 
Indore . 


(PARTII 


Do. 


Ram Lal Harbms Lal, 

Julhmdu . 


.. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. 


25000 


., 


,. 


. 


to 


20000 


M / s. Indian Vegetable 

Products Ltd . , 

Bombay . 
M /s . R . B .I. Banarsi 

Dass & Co . 


Axo.8(11)] 


25000 


- 


Do 


30000 


M / s . Delhi Cloth & 

General Mills Co , 
Ltd ., Delhi . 


M /s . Indian Mining 

Federation & Indian 
Colliery Owners , 
Associacion . 


1 


Do. 


India Colliery Owners 

Association , Dhanbad 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. 


232900 


36 Hony. Treasurer, AL India All India Women s 

Women s Education Fund Education Fund 
Association , New Delhi, Association , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1988/JYAISTHA18.1890 


617700 


Secretary to the Gort of Jammu & Kashmir 
India Ministry of Home Govt. Secugities . 
Affairs, New Delhi. 


784100 


38 Director, All India Institute Contributory Provident 

of Medical Sciences , Ney Fund Money, 
Delhi. 


Do.] 


26900 


, Lt, Col Amir Chaod 

Donation Fund . 


· Chechamma Memorial 

Trust Fund . 


. . 


.. 


199600 


. . 


41 


Do. 


• Scholarship Fund 

Anonymous Donor . 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


6600 


. 


2899 


2900 


Administrators 


Serial 
NO. 


Depositor 


4 % 
Loan 
1969 


L0011 


4 1/ 4 % 
U . P . 
1970 


4 1 /2 % 
Kerala 
1974 


4 % 
Loan 
1973 


4 % 4 % 
Kerala 1980 
1969 


4 % 
1970 


41/2 % Total 
10 Yrs . 
D . D . C . 


1971 


21 


Chief Engineer, C .P . W . D ., Contractor s Alc. 
New Delhi. 


. 


IIIOO 


279200 


: 


Do, 


, 


125600 


: 


489800 


22 Financial Adviser & Chief 

Accounts Officer , Northern 
Rly ., New Delhi. 


.. 


146600 


: 


23 F . A ., & CAO . North Eastern 

Do. 
Rly ., Gorakhpur , 
24 DO. 

Gort. Servants 
25 District & Sessions Judge , Sis Ganj Gurdwara 

Delhi. 


I Jvo 


:: 


33300 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18,1890 


. 


100 


: 


26 Deputy Commissioner , Delhi Mirza Latafat Hussain 

Tehsil Bailiff 


500 


10000 


4500 


5600 


1000 


2200 


5000 


142800 


: 


27 Chief Director of Purchase , Contractors 

Ministry of Food & Agricul 
ture , Army Purchase Organi 

sation, New Delhi, 
27( A ) Do. ) 

. M / s .Hindustan De 

velopment Corpora 
tion Ltd ., Calcutta . 


38600 


: 


500 


: 


28 Officer Commanding 140 Me 
dium Regiment ( TA /CO 

56 APO ). 
29 P . & A . O . M /OFood & Agri- 

culture , New Delhi, 


Z1000 


21000 


: 


M / s. Matwa Vanaspati . 

& Chemical Co., Ltd . 
Indore . 


[PARTII 


Do . 


.. 


. 


• Ram LalHarbans Lal, 

Julhundur, 


25000 


. 


: 


.. 


20000 


M /s. Indian Vegetable 

Products Ltd ., 

Bombay. 
M /s. R . B .L . Banarsi 

Dass & Co . 


Sec.8(18)] 


.. 


. . 


25000 


30000 


M /s. Delhi Cloth & 
General Mills Co. , 
Ltd ., Delhi. 


. . . 


499700 


00 


.. 


499700 


M / s. Lodian Mining 

Federation & Indian 
Colliery Owners , 
Association . 


Indian Colliery Owners 

Association , Dhanbad 


.. 


.. 


I2 


128500 


128500 


232900 


36 Hony. Treasurer, All India 

Women s Blata ation Fund 
Association , New Dehi, 


AL India Wo gen s 
Education Fund 
Association 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


7271000 


7271000 


. . 


. .. 


22688700 


37 Secretary to the Govt. of India Jammu & Kashmir 

Ministry of Home Affairs , Govt, Securities . 
New Delhi. 


. 


784100 


38 Director, All India Institute , Contributory Provident 

of Medical Sciences , New Fund Money . 
Delhi. 


Do. 


. Lt. Col. Amir Chana 

Donation Fund. 


26900 


Chechamma Memorial 

Trust Fund , 


199600 


Scholarship Find 

Anonymous Donor . 


6600 


2901 


2902 


SL 
No. 


Administrator 


Depositor 


41 % 
Lom 
1989 


35 % 5 % 
Bonds Guj. 
1960 1977 


4 % 
1972 


3 % 
1970 - 75 


31 % 
Lot 
1974 


Con . 
1946 


51 % 
WB. 
1977 


% 4 % 
MP. Lom 
1977 1970 


51 % 5 
Punjab M .PS. D . 
1978 Loan 

1978 


- 


40000 


42 . General Officts Victory Fund 

Commanding H . Q . 

U .P . Area , Bareilly . 
43. Do. Relief Fund 


30000 


00 


.. 
. . 


.. 
147600 


159800 140100 


5500 


288100 98900 


99400 


131100 123000 100400 


44 . Secretary to the Cash Balance Invest 

Gort, of India , ment Account, 
Ministry of Finance 
Deptt. of Economic 
Affairs , New 
Delhi. 


45. 


Do. 
Do. 


.. 
. 


8500 .. .. .. 
.. 1103300 1194600 1047500 


.. .. .. .. 668900 . .. 
41500 2154100 739200 743000 980100 919400 750500 


Sinking Fund A / c. 
Securities of Com - 

posite Punjab State 
which remain to 
be allocated and 
the securities per 
tajning to the Sink 
ing Fund for re 
payment of loans 
for Beas and 
Bhakra Nangal 
Projects . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18,1890 


(PARTII 


Sl. Administrator 
No, 


Depositor 


4 % 


4 % 


41 % 
Log 
1971 


41 % 30 % 
Loan N . P . 
1971 Bonds 
Re- issue 1968 


35 % 
Loan 
1968 


W . B . 
1968 


1969 


4 % 

4 % 
Andhra Orissa Madras TC 

1968 Kerala 

1968 


Mysore UP. 

1968 1968 


8xo.8(t)) 


.. 


. 


.. 


.. 


. . 


.. 


42 . GeneralOfficer Victory Fund . .. .. .. .. 

Commanding, H . Q . 

U .P . Arta , Bareilly . 
43 . Do. Relief Fund . .. .. .. .. 
44 . Secretary to the Cash Balance Invest- 197700 544700 

Govt. of India , ment Account. 
Ministry of Finance 
Deptt. of Econo 
mic Affairs, Ney 

Delhi. 
45 Do . " 

Sinking Fund Alc. . . 1812900 200 
46 . Do, 

Securities of com - 1478500 4072200 .. . . 

posite Punjab State 
which remain to 
be allocated and 
the securities per 
taining to the 
Sinking Fund 
for repayment of 
loans for Beas and 
Bhakra Naogal 
Projects , 

(* * s . 49% Loan 4 % 4 % 
1969 Sbathin M . B . 

1968 1968 


1700 
. . 


8600 102000 
.. . . 


5300 120300 
.. . . 


14800 
.. 


63300 13300 
.. . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8.1968/JYASTHA18.1890 


No. 


Total 


48仍在 


864900 

8500 
6466800 


40000 

30000 
2901203 

2941300 
- 21690300 


79500 


33200 


2903 


2004 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


Part 11 


8 . 0 . 2904 – The following list ofGovernment Securlties etc . In the custody of the Reserve Bank 
of India New Delhi Ag on the 31st December 1967 deposited under paragraph 108 of the Govt 
Security Manual (grd Edition ) is published for the information of officers concerned . Any 
discrepancy in the list should be brought to the notice promptly . 


Indox to list of Government Securities etc. Deposited under paragraph 103 of the Gool. 

Securities Manual (3rd Edition ). 


DELHI/NEW DELHI 
The Under Socrotary to the Govt. of India ,Ministry ofDefence , New Delhi. : . 33 
The Chief Chemist , Central Revenues, Control Laboratory, Govt . of India , Agricul 

tural Research Institute , New Delhi. 
Cheif Ordnance Officer , Ordnance Depot, Shakurbasti, Delhi. 
Commandant, Vehicles Depot, Delhi Cantt. . . . 
Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot ,Delhi Cantt. . . . . . . 8 
Commanding Officer, Air Force Station , New Delhi. . . . . . . II 
Commanding Officer, Air Force Station, Palam . . . . . . . 15 
Dy. Commissioner and Chairman , District Soldiers Seamen s and Airmen s Board , 

New Delhi. . . . . . . . . . . • . : 3 
Director (Coordination & Statistics) Directorate General of Supplies & Disposals , New 

Delhi. . . . . 
Registrar Indian Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi. . . . . . 14 
Executive Engineer, C - Division , C . P.W .D .,New Delhi. . . . . . 1 
General Manager, Govt . of India Pregs, New Delhi. . . . . . . 7 
Housing Commissioner , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, New Delhi. . . 
Pay and Accounts Officer,Ministry of Food and Agriculture, New Delhi. . . . 10 
President of India , Clo Secrerary to Govt.of India , Ministry of Home Affairs , New 

Delhi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 
Regional Director ( Food ) Govt. of India ,Ministry of Food and Agriculture , Notrthern 
Region , New Pusa , New Delhi. . . . . . . . . . . 13 
Controller of Printing & Stationery, New Delhi. . . . . . . . 1 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry ofExternal Affairs, New Delhi. . . 29 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India ,Ministry of Transort & Communication (Com 
munication Deplt.) New Delhi. . . . . . . . . 

25 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Transport & Communication 

(Deptt , of Transport ) New Delhi, . . . . . . . . . 20 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , Now 

Delhi. 
The Pay & Accounts Oficer, Central Social Welfare Board , Jeewan Deco Building , 

New Delhi. . . . . 
Administrative Officer , Govt. of India , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Army Pur 

chase Organisation (Deptt. of Food ), New Delhi. . . . . . . 
Chief Director of Purchase , Govt of India , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Army 
Purchase Organisation (Deptt . of Food ) New Delhi. 

. 
Chief Enginter, C .P . W . D ., New Delhi. . . . . . . . . 
Deputy Commissioner ,Delhi. . . . . . . . . . . 
Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, New Delhi. . . . . . 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Rehabilitation , New Delhi. . . 30 


BRO.8 (L )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 ,JYÄISTĦA 18 . 1890 


2909 


= 


Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals , Deptt. 
of Petroleum , New Delhi, . . . 

. . . 31 
Principal, Scientific Om - er , Govt. of India , Conmissioner for Scientific & Technical 

Terminology (Ministry of Education ) Hungarian Pavilian , Exhibition Grounds, New 
Delhi. 
The F . A . & CAO /SAB Northern Rly ., New Delhi. . . . . . . 23 
Under Secretary to the Govt. of India , Ministry of Irrigation & Power , New Delhi, 32 
The Director, Govt . of India , Ministry of Food , Agriculture, Community Develop - : 

ment & Co - operation (Deptt. of Food & Co - op .) Krishi Bhawan , New Delhi . 22 . & 34 


CENTRAL 
List of Government Securities in the Custody of the Reserve Bank of India , New Delhi as on the Bist December, 1967, Deposited onder Paragraph 108 of the 

Gooernment Securities Manual ( 3rd Edition ) . 


2906 


Serial Name of person or fund on whose behalf 
No 

held 


31 % N . P . 
Lorn 
1964 


3 % 
1970 - 75 


3 % con - 31 % 10 
version Year 
Loan TSDC 
1946 


46 %. Ra4 % 10 Yr. 4 % U .P . 41 % Raj. 4 % Ral 
1976 T . S . D . C . State 1974 Dey . 
Dey . 

Lora 
Loan 

1971 
1967 


10 


II 


C Division 


. 


. 


" 


**THLGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNI6,1968/JYASTHA161800 


20, 200 
. 


.. 
. 


.. 
. 


.. 
. 


.. 
. 


... 


I The Controller of Printing & Stationery , 

New Delhi , . . . 
2 The Executive Engineer C Division 

C .P .W . D . New Delhi 
3 The Dy. Commissioner & Chairman Distt. 

Soldiers , Seamen s and Airmen s Board , 

Delhi . . . . . . 
4 President of India C / o Secretary to Govern . 

ment of India , Ministry of Home Affairs, 

New Delhi 
5 The Pay & Accounts Officer, Central Social 

Welfare Board , Jeewan Deep Building, 

New Delhi , . . . . 
6 The Chief Chemist, Central Revenues , Con 

trol Laboratory , Govt. of India , Agricul 

tural Research Institute , New Delhi . 
7 The General Manager, Govt. of India Press, 

New Delhi . . . . . 
8 Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot, 
Delhi Cantt . 

. . . 
9 Chief Ordoance Officer, Ordnance Depot, 

Shakurbasti , Delhi . . . 
Io Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food 

ans Agpiculture , New Delhi . . 


2,00,000 


(PARTII 


- 


3, 500 


$. 


, 


Szo.3(18)] 


.. 


.. 


. 


800 


. 


1 ,00 


3 ,500 


II Commanding Officer, Air Force Station , 

New Delhi . . . . . 
12 Commandant , Vehicles Depot, Delhi Cantt . 
13 Regional Director (Food) Government of 

India , Ministry of Food , Agriculture , 

Northern Region , New Pusa , New Delhi 
14 Registrar, Indian Agricultural Research (as 

titute , New Delhi . . 
15 Commanding Officer, Air Force Station , 

Palam 
16 Administrative Officer, Government of India , 

Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Army 
Purchase Organisation (Deptt. of Food ), 
New Delhi 

. . . . 
17 Chief Director of Purchase , Govt . of India , 

Ministry of Food & Agricultura , Army 
Purchase Organisation (Deptt, of Food ) , 

New Delhi . . . . . 
18 Chief Engineer, C . P . W . D ., New Delhi . 
19 Deputy Commissioner, Delhi 
20 Director of Advertising & Visual Publicity, 

Ministry of Information & Broadcasting , 

New Delhi . . . . . 
21 Principal Scientific Officer , Govt. of India , 

Commissioner for Scientific & Technical 
Terminology , "Ministry of Education 
Hungarian Pavilian , Exhibition Grounds, 

New Delhi . . . . 
22 The Director, Govt. of India, Ministry of 

Food, Agriculture , Community Dev . & 
Co-op . (Deptt . of Co -op . and Food ) , 

Krishi Bhawan , New Delhi . . 
23 " The F .A . & C .A .O ./S . A . B . Northern Rly , 

New Delhi . . . . . 
24 Director (Coordination & Statistics ) Direc 

torate General of Supplies & Disposals , 
P ER Done 

. 

. . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


1 , 300 


4 ,ww 


4 ,000 


1 aww 


12 ,000 


2 , 80 , 100 


you , w 


10 ,000 


suyu 


2907 


2908 


Serial 

No . 


Name of person or fund on whose behalf 

held 


4 % Loan 

1969 


Total 


P . 0 . 7 
Yr. N . Š . 
Certifi 

cates 


P . O . 10 
Yr, N . S . 
Certifi 

cates 


P . O . 10 
Yr. N . P . 
Certifi - 

cates 


P . O . 10 P . O . 12 
Yr. Def. Yr. N . S . 
S . Certifi - Certifi- 

cates cates 


P . O . 12 
Yr. N . P . 
S . Certifi - 

cates 


P . O . 12 
Yr. N . D . 
Certifi 

cates 


12 


- 


13 


14 


15 


16 


16 . 


I 


17 


18 


19 


20 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


10 ,000 


10,000 


10 ,000 


1 ,675 


20 , 200 


I The Controller of Printing & Stationery , 

New Delhi 
2 The Executive Engineer C Division 

C . P . W . D . New Delhi 
3 The Dy. Commissioner & Chairman Distt . 

Soldiers , Seamen s and Airmen s Board , 

Delhi . . . . . 
4 President of India C /o Secretary to Govert 

ment of India, Ministry of Home Affairs , 

New Delhi . . . . . 
$ The Pay & Accounts Officer, Central Social 

Welfare Board , Jeewan Deep Building, 

New Delhi . . . . . 
6 The Chief Chemist , Central Revenues , 

Control Laboratory , Govt . of India , 

Agricultural Research Institute , New Delhi 
7 The General Manager , Govt. of India Press, 

New Delhi . 
8 Commandant, Central Ordnance Depot, 

Delhi Canti. . . . . . 
9 Chief Ordnance Officer, Ordnance Depot, 

Shakurbasti, Delhi 
Io Pay and Accounts Officer , Ministry of Food 

and Agriculture, New Delhi . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1988/JYAISTHA18.1890 


2 ,05, 000 


3 ,00 , 000 


3 ,00 , 000 


500 


1 ,000 


2 ,000 


303 


300 


. 
.. 
. 
.. 
5,000 


. 
. 
. 
5,050 
.. 


. 
. 
. 


.. 
. 
. 
. 


500 
303 
2,500 
14,000 
43,400 


1,000 
.. 
8,750 
5,600 


.. 
15,700 


26 , 950 


5 ,050 


7 , 200 


31 ,850 


[PartII 


. . 


1,38 ,500 


$5,000 


2,47,400 


6,260 


11,755 
12,050 


1,000 
12, 140 


19,015 
29, 790 


SEQ.8(11)] 


700 


1, 51 ,500 


85 ,400 


2 ,53 , 900 


730 


230 


6 ,220 


1,050 


7,550 


52 ,750 


3 ,60, 800 


4 ,26 , 750 


I ! Commandant Officer, Air Force Station , 

New Delhi 
12 Commandant, Vehicles Depot, Derhi Cantt. 
Ia Regional Director ( Food ) Governmentof India , 

Ministry of Food & Agriculture , Northern 

Region , New Pusa , New Delhi . 
14 Registrar, Indian Agricultural Research Ins 
titute , New Delhi , , 

. 
15 Commanding Officer, Air Force Station , 

Palam 
16 Administrative Officer, Government of India , 

Ministry of Food & Agriculture , Army 
Purchase Organisation (Deptt , of Food ) , 

New Delhi 
17 Chief Director of Purchase , Govt. of India , 

Ministry of Food & Agriculture , Amy 
Purchase Organisation (Deptt, of Food ) , 

New Delhi 
18 Chief Engineer, C . P . W . D ., New Delhi . 
19 Deputy Commissioner, Delhi , , 
20 Director of Advertising & Visual Publicity , 

Ministry of Information & Broadcasting 

New Delhi . , 
21 Principal Scientific Officer, Govt. of India , 

Commissioner for Scientific & Technical 
Terminology, Ministry of Education 
Hungarian Pavilian , Eshibition Grounds, 

New Delhi . . . . . 
22 The Director Govt. of India , Ministry of 

Food , Agriculture , Community Dev. & 
Co . op (Deptt, of Co . - op and Food ) Krishi 

Bhawan , New Delhi . . . 
23. The F . A . & C . A . 0 ./ S . A . B . Northern Rly ., 

New Delhi 
24 Director (Coordination & Statistics ) Direc 

torate General of Supplies & Disposals , 
New Delhi . . . . . 


50 
2 ,04, 000 

6 , 000 


30 ,000 
67, 500 


2 , 9, 000 


31 ,050 
4, 80 , 500 

6 , 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


2 ,57 ,400 


1, 67 ,400 


4 ,24 ,800 


SOO 


500 


. 


.. 


.. 


.. 


7, 500 


7 , 500 


8 , 000 


500 


4,500 


30,000 


35,000 


1, 300 


10,800 


. 


. . 


580 


. . 


46, 775 


2, 33 ,340 


3 , 80,010 


. . 


. 


2910 


47 % 


46 % 
Loan 
1986 


4 % 
Kerala 

S . D . 
Loan 
1974 


3 % 
Loan 
1963 -65 


M 
1978 


21 % 
Loan 
1976 


31 % 4 % 
IO Y . Maha - 
TSDC rashtra 

1969 


Loan 
1989 


3 % 
Loan 
1966 - 68 


34 % 
Loan 
1974 


Serial Name of person or fund on whose 
No. 

behalf held 


4 % 
Madras 

1967 


31 % 

N . P . 
Bonds 
1968 


Llen, 


24 Contd .fron Pig : No. I . . 3, 350 3,000 3, 035 3, 10 ,000 . . 2,000 600 500 1,000 2 ,000 25,000 
25 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Mioistry of Transport & 
Connunication (Com ni inication 
Dupriment ) N : Dolhi . 359 scrips of 3,58 ,545 shares of Indian Telephone Industries Ltd . and 12 scrips of 81,998 shares of 
Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd ., 

Hindustam Teleprinters Ltd , 
26 Uader Secretary to the Government of 

India , Ministry of Transport & 
Communication Department of 

Transport ) New Delhi . . 53 scrip3 of 57,445 shares of the Hinduştan Shipyard Ltd . 
27 Housing Commissioner, Ministry of 

Works, Housing and Supply New 
Delhi 

Shares of Ashoka Hotels, Ld . s Scrips of 48 , 581 shares and 2 scrips of 33, 995 Ordinary shares of Rs. 100 / 
each of Hindustan Housing Factory Ltd ., il scrips of 13 , 489 shares of National Building Constructions 

Corporation Ltd . 
28 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Works, Hous 
ing and Supply , New Dibi . 7 scrips of 14 , 988 shares of Hindustan Housing Factory Ltd , for Rs. 14 ,98,800 / - and 4 scrips of 1 ,839 shares 

of Rs. 1,000 / - each of Janpath Hotels Lid 


"THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JIYAISTHA18.1890 


29 Unler Secretary (UN ) to the Gwern 

M9R of India , Ministry of External 
Affairs, New D :[hi 

One United Nations Bonds for $ 20 , 00 ,000 . 
30 Under Secretary to Goyanmint of 

India , Ministry of Rehabilitation , 
New D : hi . 

7 scrip3 of 29, 000 shares of Rehabilitation Housing Corporation Ltd., Delhi and 18 scrips for 22 ,000 shares 
of Rehabilitation Industries Corporation Ltd . , Calcutta 


31 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Petroleung & 
Chemicals , D : partment of Petra . 
leum , New Delhi 

8 scrips of 1,40,000 shares of Oil India Pvt. Ltd . and I grip of 1,25,000 shares of Debentures Stock Certificates 

of Oil India Ltd , 


[PARTII 


32 Under Secretary to the Government 

of Latia , Ministry of Irrigation & 

Power , New Delhi . . . 6 scrips of 9 ,998 shares of National Projects Constructions Private) Ltd , 
33 Under Secretary to the Government 

of ladia , Ministry of Defence , 
New Delhi 

scrips of 7 , 06 ,29 ,000 shares certificates of Bharat Earth Movers Ltd ., Bangalore and 7 scrips of 6, 50 ,00 ,000 
shares of Bharat Electronics . 


Sec.8(11)] 


34 The Director, Government of India , 

Ministry of Food , Agriculture , 
Community Development & Co 
Operacion ( D : pit. of Co -operation 
& Food) KrishiBhawun , N : Dzhi On scrip for 450 shares of Rs. 2 ,075 / - each of National Co -operative Consignees Federation Ltd ., New 

Delhi and 4 scrips for 6 ,493 shues of Rs. 1000 / - each of Madras Bakeries ( India ) Ltd . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


2911 


2912 


Serial 

No, 


3 % 
Nine of person or fund on whose U . Þ . 
behalf held 

1961 -66 


21 % 
Loan 
1962 


4 % 4 % 4 % 4 % 51 % 
Bombay Andhra Madras Bombay M 
MC. 1958 1958 Loge 1977 
Deb 

1971 
1904 -64 


41 % 
ND . B . 

1972 


3 % 
Loan 
1896 - 97 


Total 


4 % 
Bomboy 
M . C Deb . 
1907 - 62 


* Coded -from me No. 


24 


Coord - - from page No, I 


, 


. 


7, 000 


25 , 000 


5 ,000 


5 ,000 


3 ,000 


2,000 


5,000 


2 , 100 


4000 


1, 000 


10, 89 , 805 


25 Under Secretary to the Govern 

ment of India , Ministry of Trans 
port & Communication ( Communi 
cation Departinent) , New Delhi. 


26 Under Secretary to the Government 

of ladia , Ministry of Transport & 
Communication Department of 

Transport) New Delhi. 
27 Housing Commissioner , Ministry of 

Works Housing and Supply , Ney 
Delhi. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


28 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Works Housing 
and Supply , New Delhi, 


29 Under Secretry (UN ) to the Govern 

ment of India , Ministry of External 
Affairs , New Delhi, 


. 


30 Under Secretary to Government of 

India , Ministry of Rehabilitation , 
New Delhi. 


31 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Petroleum & 
Chemicals , Department of Petro 
leum , New Delhi, 


PART11 


32 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Irrigation & 
Power, New Delhi, 


SEO.8(ii)] 


33 Under Secretary to the Government 

of India , Ministry of Defence , 
New Delhi, 


34 The Director , Government of India , 

Ministry of Food , Agriculture , 
Commnunity Development & Co 
operation Dept . of Co -operation 
& Food ) Krishi Bhawan , New 
Delhi. 


[No. Sec. 7146 /A9 Admn. 67 - 68 .] 

Sd /- Illigeble 
P . Manager 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JUNE8,1968/JYAISTHA18.1890 


2913 


2914 


THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART II 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1968 
S . O . 2050. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 122 
of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that 
behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the Schedule appended to its Notifcation No. 107 ( F . No . 50 / 5 / 86 
ITJ) , dated the 27th October , 1960 , namely : 

In the said Schedule against Rohtak Range under column 2 , the following 
entries shall be substituted , namely : 
Rohtak . 1 All Income-tax Circles , Wards or Districts having headquarters 

at:- 

( 1 ) Rohtak 
( ii) Gurgaon . 
( ill) Sonepat . 
( iv ) Hissar. 

( v ) Faridabad . 
2 . Special Survey Circle , Patiala ( in respect of persons who have 

their principal place of business in or reside in the Districts of 

Rohtak , Gurgaon and Hissar ) . 
This notification shall take effect from 23rd May, 1968 . 

Explanatory Note 
The amendment has become necessary on account of creation of a new Circle 
at Faridabad . 

( The above note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 41 ( F . No. 50 / 10 / 88 -ITJ) . 1 
New Delhi, the 23rd May 1968 
$ . 0 . 2051. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) ol section 122 
of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ) and of all other powers enabling it in that 
behalf, and in supersession of all the previous notification in this regard , the 
Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant Coin 
missioners of Income- tax of the Ranges specified in column 2 of the Schedule 
below shall pertorm their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed 
to Income- tax or Super - tax in the Income- tax Circles , Wards or District specifled 
in the corresponding entry in column 3 thereof. 


SCHEDULE 


SI. 


Range 


Income-tax Circles , Wards or Districts 


I Cuttack A . 


, 


. 


2 Cuttack B 


(1) A , C , E Wards of Cuttack Circle , Cuttack , 
(11 ) Puri, Circle , Puri. 
( 111) Salary Circle , Bhubneshwar. 
( iv ) Ward - G Cuttack Circle, Cuttack . 
( i) B , D & F Wards of Cuttack Circle , Cuttack , 
( ii ) Central Circle , Cuttack . 
(ii) Baripada Circle , Baripada. 
( iv ) Special Circle, Cuttack . 

(t) Sambalpur Circle , Sambalpur. 
( 11 ) Sundergarh Circle , Rourkela . 
( iii) Titlagarh Circle, Titlagrah . 

(1) Berhampur Circle , Berhampur, 
( ii ) Koraput Circle , Jaypore ( Orissa). 


3 Sambalpur 


, 


, 


, 


4 Berhampur 


SEO, 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8. 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2014 


Where an Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereot stands transferred 
by this Notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out cf 
assessments made in that Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof and 
pending immediately before the date of this Notifcation before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income Tax Circle , Ward 
and District or part thereof is transferred from the date this notification 
shall take effect , the transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District or part 
thereof is transferred . 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of abolition of the charge 
of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Bihar and Orissa , Patna , and consequent 
creation of the charges of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Bihar, Patna and the 
Commissioner of Income- tax, Orissa , Bhubneshwar. 

( The above note does not forin part of the notification , but is intended to be 
merely clarifcatory ) . 

(No 42 (F . No. 50 / 153 / 68 - ITJ). ] 
S . O . 2052 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf , and in supersession of all the previous notifications in this regard , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant 
Commissioners of Income-tax of the Ranges specified in column 2 of the Schedule 
below shall perform their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed 
to Income-tax or Super -tax in the Income- tax Circles, Wards or District specified 
in the corresponding entry in column 3 thereof . 


SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


Range 


Income- tax Circles, Wards or Districts 


- - 


3 


1 Patna A 


. 


2 Patna B 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(2) A , D F & G Wards of Patna Circle, Patna. 
( it) Ward (1) of Patna I , Patna. 
( it ) Ward ( ii) of Patna II Patna. 
(iu ) Ward ( iii ) of Patna I, Patna. 
(0 ) Special Estate Duty - Cum - I . T . Circle , Patna. 
( vi) Special Investigation Circle , Patna . 
( vii) Darbhanga Circle , Laheriasardi. 
( viii) Champaran Circle , Motihari, 
( ix ) Ward T Patna Circle , Patna . 

(1) B , C , E & H Wards of Patna Circle, Patna . 
(ii ) Ward (i) of Patna II, Patna . 
( iii) Ward ( ii ) of Patna I , Patna. 
( iv ) Ward ( iii) of Patna II , Patna, 
( u ) Shahabad Circle , Artah . 
( vi ) Gaya Circle , Gaya . 
( vii ) Salary Circle , Patno. 
( viii ) Special Circle , Ward A & B , Patna . 

(i) Muzaffarpur Circle , Muzaffarpur . 
(11) Saran Circle, Chapra . 
(D ) Bhagalpur Circle , Bhagalpur . 
( ii ) Santhal Pargana Circle , Dooghar. 
(Hi) MONGHYR Circle , Monghyr . 
(iv ) Putnea - Sharsa Circle , Purnca. 

(1 ) Ranchi Circle , Ranchi. 
( ii) Special Circle, Ranchi. 
( 111) Salary Circle, Ranchi. 
( iv ) Special Estate -Duty - Cum - I. T . Circle , Ranchi. 
( v ) Singhbhum Circle, Jamehedpur 
( vi) Salary Cırcle , Jamshedpur . 
(vii ) Palamu Circle , Deltonganj. 


3 Muzaffarpur , 


4 Bhagalpui 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 Ranchi , 


, 


, 


2916 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[PART 11 – 


6 Dhanbad 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(1) Dhanbad Circle, Dhanbad , 
( ii) Colliery Circle , Dhanbad . 
(in ) Hazaribagh Circle , Hazaribagh . 


Where an Income-tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof stands trans 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out of 
assessments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof and 
pending Immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle , Ward 
and District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notification 
shall take effect , bę transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District or part 
thereof is transferred . 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of abolition of the charge 
of the Commissioner of Income- tax , Bihar and Orissa , Patna , and consequent 
creation of the charges of the Commissioner of Income-tax , Bihar , Patna and the 
Commissioner of Income- tax , Orissa, Bhubheshwar . 

( The above note does not form part of the notification , but is intended to be 
merely clarifcatory ) . 

[No. 43 (F . No, 50 / 153 / 08- ITJ).) 
New Delhi, the 31st May 1968 
8 . 0 . 2053. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income -tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf and in supersession of all the previous notifications in this regard , 
the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant 
Commissioners of Income - tax of the Ranges specified in column 1 of the Schedule 
below , shall perform their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed 
to Income - tax or Super - tax in the Income- tax Circles , Wards and Districts speci 
fled in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof. 

SCHEDULE 


Ranges . 


Income-tax Circles , Ward and District . 


2 


A -Range, Hyderabad , 


visos 


1, Circle - I, Hyderabad . 

Ward - I - A , Hyderabad Circle , 

Ward - 1 - B , Hyderabad Circle . 
4 . Ward - I - C , Hyderabad Circle, 

Ward - I - D , Hyderabad Circle , 
6 . Ward - I - E , Hyderabad Circle . 

Circle - 1, (Old ) , Hyderabad . 
8 . A -Ward , Hyderabad , 

IT - cum -WT Circle I, Hyderabad . 

Warangal 
11. Nandyal, 


B - Range, Hyderabad . 


dosraios 


1. Circle - II, Hyderabad, 
2. Spl. Circle , Hyderabad , 
3 . Ward - II - A , Hyderabad Circle . 
4 , Ward - II - B , Hyderabad Circle , 
5 . Ward - II - BB Hyderabad Circle . 
6 . Ward - II - C , Hyderabad Circle . 
7 . Ward - II - D , Hyderabad Circle . 
8 . Ward - II- DD , Hyderabad Circle. 


SEC . 9 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


2917 


9 . Ward - II - E , Hyderabad Circle , 
10 . Ward - II - EE , Hyderabad Circle , 
11 . Circle - II (Old ), Hyderabad . 
12 . B -Ward , Hyderabad 
13. IT - cum -WT Circle - II, Hyderabad . 
14 . Special Survey Circle ( Old ), Hyderabad , 
15 . Spl. Survey - Circle - I, Hyderabad . 
16. Spl. Survey Circle - II, Hyderabad 
17 Survey Circle - I, Hyderabad , 
18 . Survey Circle - II, Hyderabad . 
19 . Survey Circle , Hyderabad 
20 . Sangareddy . 


C - Range, Hyderabad . 


Circle - III, Hyderabad. 
Company Ward of Secunderabad Circle, Hydera 
bad. 
3 . Company Circle , Ilyderabad . 
4 . Company Circle (Old ) , Hyderabad . 
5 . Ward - III - A , Secunderabad Circle , Hyderabad , 
6 . Ward - III - B , Secunderabad Circle, Hyderabad , 
7. Ward - III - C , Secunderabad Circle . Hyderabad , 
8 . Ward - III - D , Secunderabad Circle , Hyderabad . 

9 . Ward - III - E , Secunderabad Circle , Hyderabad . 
10. Circle - III, (Old ), Hyderabad . 
11. C -Ward , Hyderabad . 
12 . IT -cum -WT Circle - III, Hyderabad . 
13 . Kurnool. 
14 . Mahaboobnagar . 


D - Range, Hyderabad . 


cinticinccio 


1. Project Circle , Hyderabad . 

Recovery Circle , Hyderabad . 
Central Circle , Hyderabad . 
M . P . P . Circle , Hyderabad 
Nizamabad . 

Nirmal, 
7 . Karimnagar , 

Khammam , 

Salary Circle, Hyderabad . 
. Kothagudem , 


Visakhapatnam Range, 
Visakhapatnam , 


Kakinada Range , Kakinada 


1 . Visakhapatnam . 
2 . Vizianagarom . 
3 , Srikakulam 
4 , Bobbili. 
5 . Anakapalle 
6 . Eluru . 
7 . Gudivada. 
1. Kakinada (old ) . 
2 . Circle - I, Kakinada , 
3 . Circle - IÍ, Kakinada . 
4 . Ramachandrapuram (Old ) . 
5 . Rajahmundry . 
6 . Amalapuram . 
7 . Tanuku . 
8 . Palacole . 


Vijayawada Range , 
Vijayawada 


1. Vijayawada. 
2 . Masullpatam . 
3 . Tenali. 


Guntur Range, Guntur 


1. Guntur, 
2 . Bapatla . 
3 . Nellore , 
4 . Mica Circlc, Nellore . 


- - 


- -- 


2918 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JIYAISTHA 18 , 1890 


[Part II-- 


Anantapur Range, 
Anantapur . 


1 . Anantapur. 
2 . Hindupur. 
3 . Adoni. 
4 . Cuddapah . 
5 . Proddatur . 
6 . Tirupati. 
7 . Chittoor . 


Where an Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof stands transfer 
red by this Notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out of 
assessments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of Income - tax of the Range from whom the Income- tax 
Circle , Ward or District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this 
notification shall take effect, be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District 
or part thereof is transferred . 

This notification shall take effect from 1st June, 1988 . 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of the abolition of one 
Appellate Assistant Commissioner s Range, Viz ., Rajahmundry Range, Rajahmun 
dry and the reorganisation of the Circles in the Hyderabad City . 

( This note does not from part of the Notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ) . 

[No. 46 ( F .No. 50 / 4 / 68 -ITJ.] 
P . G , GANDHI, Under Secy , 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 


CENTRAL EXCISES 


Madras, the 23rd May 1968 


S . O . 2054 . - In pursuance ofRules of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I empowerthe Assistant 
Collectors of Central Excise of this Collectorate , to exercise within their respective jurisdictions 
the powers of a Collector conferred by the provisions of the Rules enumerated in column 1 of the 
sub - joined Table , to the extent indicated in column 2 thereof. 


TABLE 


Central Excisc Rules 


Extent 


I 


52 A . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


53 and 173G 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


To authorise removals of excisable goods on documents 

other than gate -pass in the statutory form . 
To exempt any manufacturer from maintaining 

accounts in form R . G , I (for assessees working 
under self romoval procedure ) and to accept the 
private accounts of themanufacturer , in lieu there of , 


- 


- 


[C . No . 1Vj16 /69 /68 -SRPC .] 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18 . 1891) 


2919 


S . O . 2055 , - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of Rule 173E of the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944 , I empower the Central Excise Officers not below the rank of an 
Assistant Collector, of this Collectorate , to fix the quantum and period of time 
when the production in an assessee s factory is considered normal, 

[C . No . IV / 16 /69 / 88 - SRPC.] 
S. VENKATARAMAN , Controller. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE , SHILLONG 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Dated , Shillong the 21st March , 1968 . 
S . O . 2096 . - Io exercise of the powers conferred upon ine under Rule 5 , of the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944 , I hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified in Col. 2 of the sub - joined 
table to exercie within their jurisdiction the powers of the “ Collector " under the Central Excise 
Rules enumerated in col. ( 1 ) thereof subject to the limitations get out in col. (3 ) of the said table . 


TADLE 


Central Excisc Rules 


Rank of Officers 


Limitations, if any 


47 & 53 


Junior Superintendents in ranges where there To grant permission to 

is no Junior Superintendents the powermay maintain combined R . G . 
be exercised by the Senior Superintendents . I and E . B . 4 . 


(C . No. IV /8 /1/ 66 .) 

[No. 2 /61 ] 
Shillong, the 6th May 1968 
S . O . 2057, - Io exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 , of Central Excisc 
Rulee , 1944 , I hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified in column 2 of the sub -joined 
Table to exercise within their jurisdiction the power of the “ Collector " under the Central Excise 
Rules cnumerated in column I thereof gubject to the limitations get out in column 3 of the said 
table . 


TABLE 


C .E . Rules 


Rank of Officer 


Limitations, if any 


LI 


I 


191- B (3 ) 


Assistant Collector . 


. 


. 


Full powers to the extent where 

the duty involved in cach 
Ça8C docg notexceed Rs. 1, 000 / - . 


- 


- 


191-B(3) 


Superintendent 


. 


, 


. 


. 


Full power to the extent where 

the duty involved in each case 
does not exceed Rs. 250 / 


( C . No, IV /8 /1 /66 .) 

(No. 2 /68 ] 
Shillong, the 27th May 1968 
S . O . 2058 . — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of 
the Central Excise Rules , 1944 I hereby empower the Central Excise Oficers 
specified in Col ( 2 ) of the subjoined table to exercise within their jurisdiction 
the powers of the " Collector" under the Central Excise Rules enumerated in Col 
( 1 ) thereof subject to the limitations set out in Col. ( 3 ) of the said table , 


2920 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8 , 1968 /JYAISTHA 18 . 1890 


[Parr II 


TABLE 


C . E . Rules 


Rank of officer 


Limitations if any 


( 2 ) 


- 


(3 ) 


173 & 


. 


Not below the rank of Asstt. Col- Full powers to the extent of determination of 
lector of Central Excise 

normal production of the assesse s fac 
tory etc . But the powers of adjudication 
of any sliortfall in productio i would vest 
with the office not below the rank of 
Deputy Collector. 


174 (G ) (6 ) 


Not below the rank of Inspector To scrutinise the accounts and returns of 
of Ceutral Excisc . 

the assessees (whether maintained in pur 
suance of the C . E . Rules or not). This 
will be without prejudice to the powers 
being exercised by the C . E . Officers 
authorised under Rule 197 of the C . E . 
Roles , 1944 . 


[No. 3 /68 .) 
A . K . BANDYOPADHYAY , 

Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , RANPUR 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Nagpur , the 27th May 1968 
9 . 0 . 2099 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by Rules of the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944, I hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified in column ( 2 ) of the Table 
given below to exercise within their respective jurisdiction the powers of the " Collector" under 
the Central Excise Rules enumerated in column ( 1 ) tliereof subject the scope and limitation set 
out in columns (3 ) and ( 4 ) of the said Table . 


TABLE 


C.E . Rules 


Rank of Officer 


Scope of powers 


Limitation , 

if any 
(4 ) 


Rule 173 - E 


. 


Aggistant Collectors and 

Dy. Collector. 


Rule 52 - A . 


. Assistant Collectors 


To fix the quantum and period of 

timewhen the production in the 
assessee s factory was considered 

normal by such officer , 
To authorige removal of excigable 
goods on documents other than 
gate pass in the statutory forms 
provided that the like document 
is sufficiently detailed so as to be 
indicative of the correct Tariff 
classification , rate of duty and 

498e8sable value. 
( applicable to manufacturers 

under self - removal procedure). 


atc. 3(ii )] 


THE GAZET IE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968/JYAIS ] HA _18. 18910 


2021 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


Rule 53 


. 


. 


Assistant Collectors 


To dispense with the requirement of 
maintaining R . G . I. Account 
provided that an assessed under 
the self - removal procedure 
maintains satisfactory private 
account from which all infor 
mation as requirod in R . G . I , can 
be readily obtained . 


[ No . 3/ 68. ] 
V . PARTHASARATHY, 

Collector. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st June 1968 
s . o . 2060. --. The tollowing draft of Rules further to amend the Indian Pilgrim 

Ips Rules , 1933, as continued in force by clause ( a ) of sub-section ( 3 ) of section 
Rol of the Merchant Shipping Act , 1958 (44 of 1958 ), which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 282 of the 
Sald Act, is hereby published, as required by the sald section 282 , for information 
of persons likely to be affected thereby , and notic Is hereby given that thesaid 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 7th July , 1968 . 

Any objection or suggestion , which may be received from any person with respect 
to the sand draft before the date so specified will be considerably by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Indian Pilgrim Ships ( Amendment ) Rules, 

1988. 
2. In the Indian Pilgrim Ships Rules, 1933 in sub- rule ( 2 ) of Rule 124 , for 

the words " A fee of ten rupees " the words " A fee of twelve rupees " 
shall be substituted . 

[ No. M II - 1 181 ( 19 ) / 67 ] 
T . T . P . ABDULLAH , 

Director 
(Personnel & Haj Affairs ) 


विदेश मन्त्रालय 


नं . दिल्ली, 1 जून 1968 
एस० नं . 2061. -च्यापार पोत अधिनियम , 1958 की धारा 282 द्वारा प्रदत्त अधि ारों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्र सरकार , निम्नलिखित नियम - प्रारूप से , भारतीय यात्री जहाज नियम 1933 
में , जो कि उक्त अधिनियम , ( 1958 का 44 ) की धारा 461 की उपधारा ( 3 ) खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा 
निरंतर लाग है और संशोधन करने का विचार कर रही है और ये नियम -प्रारूप , उन व्यक्तियों की 
सूचना के लिये जिन पर इसका प्रभाव पड सकता हा , इस अधिसूचना के माध्यम से प्रकाशित किए 
जा रहे है जैसा कि उक्त धारा 282 के अन्तर्गत करना होता है , और इसके द्वारा यह सचना दी 
जाती है कि इस प्रारूप पर 7 जुलाई 1968 को या उसके बाद विचार किया जाएगा । 

अगर इस प्रारूप के सिलसिले में उक्त तारीख से पहले किसी व्यक्ति से कोई आपत्तियां 
अथवा सझाव प्राप्त होंगे तो केन्द्र सरकार उनपर भी विचार करेगी । 


2922 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JUNE 8, 1968 / JYAISTHA 18. 1890 


PART JI - SHC. (ii ) ] 


नियम प्रारूप 


1. इम नियमों को भारतीय यानी जहाज ( संशोधन ) नियम, 1968 कहा जाएगा । 
2. भारतीय यात्री जहाज नियम , 1933 के उप -नियम ( 2) के नियम 124 में वाग्यांश 
" मुल्क के रूप में दस रुपये के स्थान पर " शुल्क के रूप में बारह रुपये रखा जाए । 

[सं० एम० II -118 1 ( 19)/ 67 .] 
ती० टी० पी० भन्दुल्ला, 

निवेशक 
कर्मचारी एवं हज कार्य । 


AIM - 


- - 


- 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , COVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS . 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1969 


