REGISTERED No. D . 222. 


va 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
No. 49 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 4 , 1954 

NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinay were published upto the 27th Novembe 
1954 : 

į Issued by 

Subject 


- 


doba 


20 


, the 20th 


ed the 28th Election Commis- Election Petition No . 25 of 1953. 

įsion , India . 
Ditto . 

Civil Appeal No . 151 of 1953 . 
Member 196 
har he 23 ; d Government of | List of members elected for the 
Ajmer . 

Pushkar Municipal Com 

mittee . 
d the 23rd Ditto . 

Directions issued for the persons 
November 1954 . 

holding licence under Part 
III of the Cinmatograph Act . 

1952 in the State of Ajmer , 
S . R . O . 3452 , dated the 20th Election Com - Amendment made in the Noti 
November 1954 . 

mission , India . fication No . 62 /3 /51- Elec . 

II. ( 3 )dated the 5th October 

1951. ) 
S . R . O . 3453 , dated the 24th Ministry of Com - Amendment made to the French 
November 1954 . 

merce and Establishments (Application of 
Irdustry. 

Laws Order , 1954 . 
S . R . O . 3487, dated the 25th Ministry of La Constitution of an Industrial 
November 1954 . 

bour. 

Tribunal for adjudication of an 
industrial dispute concern 
ing the United Bank of India , 
Limited . 


277 


278 


279 


25th 


Ditto . 


S . R . O . 3488 , dated the 
November 1954 . 


Reference of industrial dispute 

for adjudication in relation to 
the United Bank of India , to 
the Industrial Tribunal . 


280 


S . R . O . 3489, dated the 26th 
November 1954 . 


Delimitation Com - Corrections made in the Final 
mission , India . Order No. 15 , dated the 23rd 

August 1954 ( S . R . O . 2738 ) . 
Ministry of Fin Customs Duties Drawback 

ance (Revenue (Crown Cork ) Rules, 1954 . 
Division ). 


281 | S . R . O . 3490, dated the 27th 

November 1954 . 


282 | S . R . O . 3491 dated , the 27th | 

November 1954 . 


Ditto . 


Exemption of raw sugar imported 

into India from certain por 
tion of customs duty . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to th 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach th 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette . 

( 2725 ) 


2726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


- 


- 


- 


PART 1 - Section 3 


Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners ). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3495 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Rule 1 of Order XXVI 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedurc , 1908 ( Act V of 1908 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall 
made in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law , 
No. S . R . O . 1661, dated the 1st September , 1953, rclating to the appointment of 
officers to sign or verify plaints and written statements in suits in any court of 
civil jurisdiction by or against the Central Government, namely : - - 

In part XI of the Schedule to the said notification , after the entry " Regional 
Directors of Resettlement and Employment" , the entry " Additional Deputy 
Director (Labour ), Gorakhpur" , shall be inserted . 

[No. F .25 - 1 /53 - L . ] 

R . S . GAE , Dy. Secy . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

-- -- - - - 

- - - - - 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 25th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3496 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of the 
Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Home Department No. F .9 / 2 / 33 - Ests ., dated the 9th January , 1934 , 
namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , after the heading " Indian School of 
Mines" , the following heading and the entries thereunder shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" Office of the Director, Labour Bureau . 
Research Officer Secretary , Ministry of Secretary, Ministry of All 
Labour. 

Labour. 
Investigator (Grade I) Secretary , Ministry of Director, Labour Burçau . (1) & (v ) 

Labour. 


Secretary , Ministry of All 
Labour 

[No. 7 / 9 / 54 - Ests.] 


S . R . O . 3497 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of 
the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 , the President hereby directs that the follow 
ing further amendment shall be made in the rules published with the notification 
of the Goveroment of India in the late Home Department No. F . 9 - 19 / 30 -Eşts .. 
dated the 27th February , 1932 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said rules, under the heading " Department of Indus 
tries and Labour ” , the following sub -heading and entries thereunder shall be 
added at the end , namely : 
" Office of the Director , Labour Bureau . 
Class III posts . 
Investigators (Grade II) Deputy Secretary Director Labour (1) to ( v ) Secretary , 
Ministry of Labour. Burcau 

Ministry of Labour , 
Deputy Secretary All Secretary , 
Ministry of Labour Ministry of Labour 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1984 


2727 


Director , Labour 
Burcau . 


Director , Labour 
Bureau . 


All Secretary , 
Ministry of Labour. 


Computors , Draftsman , 
Upper Division Clerks, 
III Division Clerks . 
Class IV posts 


Director, Labour 
Burçal . 


Director, Labour All Deputy Secre 
Bureau . 

tary , Ministry of 
Labour. " 

[No. 7 /9 / 54 - Ests. ] 
S . P . MAHNA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3498 . - - In exercise of the powers confeșred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts Shri 
Sergio M , Correa do Lago, Second Secretary to the Brazilian Embassy, New 
Delhi, from the operation of the prohibitions and directions contained in section 
6 of the said Act in respect of one F . N . Belgium 9 m . m . pistol No. 35902 and nine 
reunds of ammunition . 

[No. 9 / 63 / 54- Police ( I) .] 

N . SAHGAL , Dy. Secy . 
- - - - -- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23rd November 1954 
S .R . O . 3499 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 2 
of the Diplomatic and Consular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948 (XLI of 
1948 ), the Central Government hereby authorises Shri M . K . Jain , Assistant 
Vice Consulate of India , Zahidan , to perform the duties of a Consular Agent with 
effect from the 16th September , 1954, upto the 28th October , 1954 . 

( F .WI/54 / 8311 ) 

[No. 689- W . 1/ 54 .] 

I. S . CHOPRA , Joint Secy . 
— - - - - --- - - - - - 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3500 . - - In pursuance of clause ( 30 ) of Article 366 of the Constitution 
of India , the President is hereby pleased to recognise Brigadier His Highness 
Maharao Shri Sir Bhim Singhji " Bahadur, K . C . S .I., Maharao of Kotah as 
Uprajpramukh of Rajasthan for a period of five years with effect from the 29th 
September 1954. 

[No. 133- PB . ] 
G . SWAMINATHAN , Joint Secy . 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3501. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and 
( 4 ) of section 52 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( X of 1949 ) , the Central 
Government, after consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby directs 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the Banking Companies 
Rules , 1949, the same having been previously published as required by sub 
section ( 3 ) of the said section , namely : 

In the said Rules 
( 1 ) after rule 15 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 15A . The list of debtors under section 45D of the Act shall be in Form 

XIV or as near thereto as circumstances permits " , 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2728 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 [PART II — SEC . 3 

- - - - - - - 
( 2 ) after Form XIII , the following Form shall be inserted , namely : 

" THE BANKING 
FORM XIV * 

( Section 
In the High Court of Judicature 

No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

In the matter of the Indian 
And in the matter of the Banking 

And in the matter of. . . 
List of Debtors of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Sl. 
No. 


Name and ad - If the original deb . If the original deb - Amount of Rule of in 
dress of tor is dead , give for is an insolvent , debt due . Lerest if 
debtor. names and addresses give the name and 

any, and 
of his legul rcp address of the 

the date 
resentatives. (If assignee or re 

upto which 
the original debtor ceiver of his 

such in 
dies after this estate . ( If the 

terest las 
list is filed in original lebtor 

been cal 
Court but before is adjudged in 

Culated . 
it is setiled , sub - solvent after this 
stitute the names List is filed in Court 
and addresses of but before it is 
his legal repre settled , the name 
sentatives ) . 

of such assignce 
or receiver shall 
he added ). 


Dated this . . . . . . ... . . . 


. . . . . . . . . day of. . . . . . 
+ This List should be verified by 

OFFICIAL 


PART II — SEC . % ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2729 


COMPANIES ACT, 1949 
( See RULL 15A ) . 
145D (2)] 
at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jurisdiction 
of 195 . . . . . . . . . 
Companies Act , 1913 . 
Companies Act , 1949 . 
. . . . . . . . a Banking Company 
ordered to be wound up on . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Re 
marks 


Description 
of papers . 
writings and 
documents , 

if any 
relating to 
the dcbt. 


Particulary Description Relief or 
of guaran - of papers , reliefs 
tee where writings claimed . 
debt is and do 
guaranteed cuments 
including in sun 

names port of 
and ad - the gu 
dresses of rantee 
guarantors where 
and ex - deht is 
tent of guaranteed . 
guarantee 


Whether in Whether in 
respect of respect of 
the debt the debt 
the banking the banking 
company company 
holds per - holiis secli- 
sonal sccu Tity Other 
rity only than per 
ог 

110 sonal secu 
Security rity ; il so , 

give the 
nature and 
particulars 
of the sea 
curity in 
cluding the 
ulimuted 
value of 
the SCCL 
tily , names 
and ud 
dresses of 
persons ha 
vingin 

crest in 
such selu 
rity or a 
right of 
redemption 
therein . 


9 


10 


12 


13 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


at . . . . . . . . . . . 


195. . . . . . . 
means of an affidavit . 
LIQUIDATOR " 


[No. F .4 (6 )-F .1/64.] 
N , C . SEN GUPTA, Dy. Scc 


- 


- 


- - 


2730 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 [PART II - SEC, 3 

= - = - - - - - - 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
COMPANY LAW AND INVESTMENT ADMINISTRATION 

New Delhi, the 26th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3502. - It is hereby notified for general information that in pursuance 
of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 248 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) , 
the Central Government has appointed with effect from the 4th November 1954 
Shri B . M . Mody, B . A ., Assistant Secretary , Finance Department , Saurashtra to 
be the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies vice Shri V . V . Baxi granted leave 
from the same date . 

[ No. 17 ( 22 ) - CL / 53 . ] 


S . R . O . 3503 . - It is hereby notified for general information that in pursuance of 
sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 248 of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 ( VII of 1913 ) . 
the Central Government has appointed with effect from the 29th October 1954 
( forenoon ) Shri H . D . Shourie , I. A . S ., Director of Industries , Punjab , to be the 
Registrar of Joint Stock Companies vice Shri Daljeet Singh , P . C . S . 

[No. 3 ( 57) - CLIA / 54. ] 
S . SUBRAMANIAN , Under Secy . 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

DANGEROUS Drugs 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3504 . — The following draft of a further amendment to the Central 
Oipum Rules , 1934 , which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 of the Dangerous Drugs Act , 1930 (II of 
1930 ) , is published, as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 36 of the said Act, 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
7th January , 1955 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In rule 4 of the said rules , after the word " Punjab ” , the words " Patiala and 
East Punjub States Union and Uttar Pradesh " shall be inserted . 

[No. 8 .] 


New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3505 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of rule 2 of the Central Opium Rules, 
1934, the Central Government hereby directs that the following amendments 
shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Revenue Division ) , No. S . R . O . 2607 , dated the 14th August 1954 . 
namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , 
( 1 ) In Part I 
( a ) in the entries relating to the Faizabad Opium Circle , the entry " Basti" 

under the column headed " District " and the entry " Amroha " under 
the column headed " Extent" shall be omitted ; 

Tehsil/ Pargana 
(b ) after the Shahjahanpur Opium Circle and the entries relating thereto , 

the following shall be added , namely : 
" Experimental Farm attached 

Ghazipur Ghazipur" ; 
to the Government Opium 
Factory Ghazipur . 


- - 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 2731 

- - - 
( 2 ) In Part II, to the entries relating to the Ratlam Opium Circle , the entry 

" Shajapur " under the column headed “ District" and the entry " Agar 
and Susner " under the column headed " Extent" shall be added . 

Tehsil / Pargana 

[ No . 9.] 
M . P . ALEXANDER , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S .R . O . 3506 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made in the Central Excise Rules 
1944 , namely : 

In Appendix I to the said Rules , in the second paragraph of Form B - 4 ( A ) in 
Central Excise Series No. 25 - A , after the word " appointed " the following shall 
be inserted , namely : 
" licensed " 

[No. 49 .) 
W . SALDANHA , Dy. Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 4th December 1954 
S .R . O . 3507. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts re 
corded discs imported into India for processing and export and falling under item 
No. 79 of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 ( XXXII of 1934 ) , from 
the whole of the customs duty leviable thereon under the second mentioned Act, 
only in cases where 
( i) the Chicf Custums Oficer is satisfied that the recordings contained in 

such discs are not ordinarily marketable in India ; and 
( ii ) the importer executes a bond undertaking 
( a ) to re - export the master records within a period of six months of the 

date of import or any further time allowed in this behalf by such 

officer ; and 
( b ) to pay the duty chargeable thei eon in the event of his failure to do so 
within the specified period . 

(No. 158 . ] 


S . R . O . 3508 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , The Central Government hereby exempts 
broodmares and stallions imported into India , for the purpose of breeding only 
and not for the purpose of racing , and falling under item 1 ( 1 ) of the First 
Schedule to the Indian Tariſt Act , 1934 (XXXII of 1934 ), from the whole of the 
customs duty leviable thereon under the last mentioned Act 

[No. 159 .7 
E . S . KRISHNAMOORTHY , Joint Secy . 
- - - 

- - - 
CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 26th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3509 , - - In pursuance of sub - scction ( 4 ) of Section 5 of the Indian 
Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue directs that the 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2732 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 (PART 11 - SEC . 3 

G r = = - - 
following further amendment shall be made in the Schedule to its Notification 
No . 32 -- - Income- tax , dated the 9th November, 1946 , namely : 

In the said Schedule under the sub -head, “ VII - A - Punjab , Himachal Pradesh , 
Bilaspur, Patiala and East Punjab States Union and Jammu & Kashmir State " 
after entry 19 against Amritsar Range , the following entry shall be added , 
namely : 
" 20 . Survey Circle III, Srinagar ." 

[No. 65 .] 
K . B . DEB , Under Secy . 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Bombay , the 26th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3510 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clause 20 of the 
Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948, I hereby direct that with effect from 1st 
January , 1955 , the following further amendment shall be made in the Textile 
Commissioner s Notification No. TCS . I / 20 , dated the 22nd September, 1949, 
namely : 

In the said Notification in paragraph 6 after clause ( 1 ) the following shall be 
inserted , namely 

" ( 2 ) No producer who has a spinning plant shall produce during any quarter 
a quantity of printed cloth exceeding one - fourth of the largest total quantity of 
such cloth packed by him during any year from 1949 to 1954 . 

Explanation 1. - - For the purposes of clause ( 2 ) " quarter " means the period of 
three months ending on the last day of March , June, September and December . 

Explanation 11. — The total quantity of printed cloth packed by any producer 
during any of the aforesaid years from 1949 to 1954 shall be determined with 
reference to the returns furnished in that behalf by the producer to the Textile 
Commissioner under the Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act, 1946 ." 

M . R . KAZIMI, 
Textile Commissioner. 


[No, T .C .( 10 ) 32 / 49 .] 
P . V . S . SARMA, Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th November 1954 
S . R . O . 8511. — IDRA / 25 / 1 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 25 of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 
1951 (LXV of 1951 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the powers 
exercisable by it under section 18G of the said Act, shall , in relation to the control 
of supply , distribution and price of cement in the State of Bombay , be exercisable 
also by the State Government of Bombay , subject to the condition that no order 
made by the said State Government in the exercise of the powers so delegated 
shall have effect in so far as such order is repugnant to any order made by the 
Central Government under the said section 18G . 

[F . No. 11 ( 1) IA ( G ) / 54.1 
P . S. SUNDARAM , Dy . Secy . 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 25th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3512 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules 1951 read with section 3 of the Cinemato 
graph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) , the Central Government hereby appoints 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 


2733 


Sri V . Shantaram as a member of the Central Board of Film " Censors with imme 
diate effect vice Sri Chandulal J. Shah resigned. 

( No. 11/5 / 54 - FC . ] 
P . M . LAD, Secy . 


New Delhi, the 27th November 1954 
S . R . O , 3513 . — It is notified for general information that Sri K . Krishnamurthy, 
having tendered resignation from membership of the Madras Advisory Panel of 
the Central Board of Film Censors , the Central Government has accepted the 
same with effect from 24th November , 1954 

[ No . 14 / 2 /54 - FC . ] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1954 
S . R . O , 3514 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4 and 6 of the 
Madras Outports Landing and Shipping Fecs Act, 1885 (Madras Act III of 1885 ) 
the Central Government hereby directs that with effect from the 3rd January , 
1955 , the following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Transport No . 11 - P ( 90 ) /47, dated the 23rd 
December , 1947, namely 

In the Schedule to the said notification 

( 1 ) in section XXIV , relating to the heading " LEAVES, CANES, PLANTS , 
MATS , BASKETS , BARKS AND FIBRES” — 
( a ) for the existing heading, the following heading shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" LEAVES , CANES , PLANTS , MATS , BASKETS , BARKS, AND FIBRES 

NOT OTHERWISE ENUMERATED " : 
( b ) in item for the words " Fibres and barks, other than coir and 

palmyra " the words " Fibres and barks not otherwise enumerated " 

shall be substituted ; 
( 2 ) In section XXXVII relating to “ TEXTILES ” , after item J, the following 
item shall be inserted , namely : 
Landing and 

Wharfugo 
Shipping Fees . 
" JJ. Staple fibre 50 C . Ft. 

1-8 -0 " ; 
3 - 0 - 0 
( 3 ) in the section relating to the heading "METHOD OF CALCULATING 
LANDING AND SHIPPING FEES AND WHARFAGE " after clause 11, the 
following clause shall be added , namely : 
“ 12. ( a ) Whenever landing and shipping operations are allowed at the Low 

Wharf with the previous written permission of the Traffic Manager to 
suit the Port s convenience , landing or shipping fees only without 

wharfage will be recovered on such goods. 
( b ) In cases where wharf bulk cargo is allowed to be discharged into 

lighters from vessels berthed at the Willingdon Island wharves or in 
stream and loaded into wagons through the Boat Train Pier Jetty 
or the Coal Berth with the previous written permission of the Traffic 
Manager to suit the Port s convenience , landing fees only without 

wharfage will be recovered . 
NOTE. — The Port will not render any specified services for the loading or 
landing of cargoes in such cases." 

[No. 6 - PII (80 ) /54 .] 
A . V . SUBRAMANIA IYER , Under Secy . 


2734 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 (PART II — Sec. 3. 
= = 

= = = = - - - - -- - = = - = - = - = - = 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 30th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3515 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
35 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that with effect from the 15th December, 1954 , the following amendments 
shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Transport No . 20 - M ( 1 ) / 50 - 1, dated the 12th October , 1950 , namely : 

In the schedule annexed to the said notification , under the heading “ D . Night, 
Holidays, Sunday or overtime work charges" , after the entry " ( 2 ) Sunday or 
holiday or part thereof . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 2 - 8 - 0 ” under the sub - heading " II COUNTRY 
CRAFTS " , the following entries thereunder shall be inserted , namely : 
“ III. For opening office . 

( i) Whole night or part thereof - Rs. 5 per application . 

(ii ) Sunday or holiday or part thereof - Rs. 5 per application . 
IV . For clearance ( inward and outward ) of cargoes : 
Finance, as a member of the Air - India International Corporation vice Shri K . R . 

[No. 10 -M ( 10 ) /53.] 
T . S . PARASURAMAN , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3516 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 ( LX of 1890 ) read with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No 801, dated the 24th 
March , 1905 , the Railway Board hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India , 
published with the notification of the Government of India in the late Railway 
Department (Railway Board ) No . 1078 - T dated the 9th March , 1929 , namely : 

In the Schedule to Part III of the said rules , in column 3 against Serial No. 3 , 
for the expression " 74 per cent." whercever it occurs , the expression " 5 per cent." 
shall be substituted . 

[No. 1401- TG .) 

RANJIT SINGH , Director , 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - 
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1954 


S . R . O . 3517 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals ( Regulation & Development) Act , 1948 (LIII of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949 , namely :-- 

For the proviso to rule 6 of the said Rules , the following provisos shall be 
substituted , namely : 


“ Provided that 

( a ) where such person is an individual and is not a citizen of India , or 
( b ) where the person is a partnership firm which consists of one or more 

partners who are not citizens of India , 
the State Government shall not grant any certificate of approval to such persons 
except with the previous approval of the Central Government. 

" Provided further that where such person is a company , it shall be incorporated 
under the Indian Companies Act , 1913 ( III of 1913 ) , and if a partnership firm . 
it shall be registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 ( IX of 1932 ) " . 


PART II — Sec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 


2735 


Provided further that when it is so expedient in the public interest, the State 
Government may be order , with the previous approval of the Central Govern 
ment, grant exemption from this rule " . 

[No. MII - 159 ( 13 ) /54. ] 
M . M . MALHOTRA , Under Secy . 


- - - 


- - 


- 


= 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3518. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Air Cor 
porations Act, 1963 ( 27 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
M . V . Rangachari, Secretary , Revenue and Expenaiture Department, Ministry of 
Finance , as a member of the Air - India Internation Corporation vice Shri K . R . 
K . Menon . 


[No. 2 -CA ( 48 ) / 54 - H . ] 


S . R . O . 3519 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Air Cor 
porations, Act, 1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
M . V . Rangachari, Secretary , Revenue and Expenditure Department, Ministry of 
Finance, as a member of the Indian Airlines Corporation vice Shri K R . K . Menon , 


[No. 2-CA ( 48 ) /54 -1.] 
New Nelhi, the 26th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3520. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 44 of the Air Cor 
porations Act , 1953 (27 of 1953 ), the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing rules, namely : 


CHAPTER I 
1. Short title . These rules may be called the Air Corporations Rules, 1954. 
2. Definitions. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires : 

( a ) " the Act" , mcans the Air Corporations Act, 1953 ( 27 of 195:3); 
(b ) " Chairman " means the Chairman of the Corporation ; 
( c ) " Corporation " means the Indian Airlines, or , as the case may be, the Air 

India International Corporation , as the context in cach case may 

require; 
( d ) “General Manager " means the General Manager of the Corporation ; 
( e ) " secretary " means the secretary to the Corporation ; 
( 1) "member" means a member of the Corporation ; and 
( g ) " section " means a section of the Act. 


CHAPTER II 

BUDGET , ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 
3 . Preparation and submission of annual budget estimates . - ( 1 ) Ilie budget osti 
mates of the Corporation for every financial year beginning on the first day of April 
and ending on the thirty - first day of March next following shall be prepared by 
the Chairman or such officer as inay te empowered by the Chairman in this behalf 
at such time and in such form as the Central Government may lay down from 
time to time. 

( 2 ) A copy of the budget cstimates so prepared shall be sent to each member 
at least fourteen days before the meeting of the Corporation at which such esti 
mates are to be considered . 

( 3 ) The Corporation shall consider and approve the budget estimates with such 
changes as it thinks At at the meeting Axed for the purpose or at any other meeting 
to which the consideration of the budget estimates is adjourned by a resolution 
of the Corporation , 


- 


2736 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 [PART II - SEC, 3 
- - = = = = 

= = = 
(4 ) The budget estimates, as approved by the Corporation , shall be submitted 
to the Central Government, not later than the first day of January of the financial 
year preceding the year to which the budget estimates relate : 

Provided that the particulars of all capital commitments proposed to be entered 
intu by the Corporation which inay entail expenditure from the Government funds 
during the succeeding financial year shall be turnished by the 1st day of September 
of the preceding linancial year . 

(5 ) A summary of the budget estimates as submitted by the Corporation shall 
be laid before both Houses of Parliament and published in the Omcial Gazette , 
as soon as possible after the demands for gronts to incet the expenditure of the 
Central Government have been assented to by Parlament. 


4 . Supplementary Estinutes. - It during any financial year the Corporation 
engages or proposes to engage in any air transport service or ancillary activity in 
addition to those specified in the programme previously submitted under sub 
section ( 1) of section 36 or , if , for any other reason or reasons, a substantial modi 
Ucation of the budget estimates approved by the Corporation is likely to be in 
volved , the Corporation shall submit for approval to the Central Government sup 
plementary estimates in such form as the Central Government may by order from 
time to time direct . 


5 Re-appropriation . If the Chairman or any officer of the Corporation autho 
rised by him in thiş behalf is satisfied in the course of the year that there is Ukely 
to be an excess of expenditure over the budget estimates approved by the Corpo 
ration under any head , he shall examine the allotment under each head of the 
budget estimate with the object of ascertaining probable savings under any other 
head and eflecting a re -appropriation . Where such re -appropriation is feasible , he 
may sanction the re - appropriation subject to such conditions, if any , as may from 
time to time be laid down by the Corporation , 


6 . Preparation of accounts and production before auditors . - - Within three months 
of the end of each financial year , the annual accounts showing the financial results 
of the Corporation shall be prepared with such subsidiary accounts as may be 
necessary and in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government in 
consultation with the Comptroller und Auditor General of India and placed before 
the Corporation . These accounts authenticated by affixing the common seal or 
and duly passed by the Corporation shall be submitted to the Central Government 
and the audit officer appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General : 

Provided that on a request of the Corporation , the Central Government may , 
in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General, extend the date of sub 
mission of the accounts by such period as the Central Government may think 
At. 


7 . Initial accounts of stores. - Initial accounts of stores including materials on 
the site of works and tools and plant ( including special tools and plant) shall be 
maintained in accordance with such Instructions as may , from time to time, be 
issued by the Corporation . 


8 . Physical perification of stores . A physical verification of stores and tools 
and plant shall be made hy an officer who is not the custodian thereof . The results 
of such verification together with the orders of the Corporation for any shortages 
or excesses of stores and tools and plant shall be communicated to the Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India . 


9 . Report of uuditors. The auditors shall report on the annual accounts to the 
Corporation on such date as the Central Government, may , in consultation with 
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India , specify in this behalf . They shall 
also certify whether in their opinion , the balance sheet is a full and ſair balance 
sheet containing all particulars and properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and 
correct picture of the stute of altairs of the Corporation and , in case they have 
called for any explanation or information from the Corporation or any of its overs , 
whether it has been given and whether it is satisfactory . 

10 Consideration of reports of auditors.- - The annual accounts together with the 
auditors report thercon and an annual report on the work and activities of the 
Corporation shall be placed for adoption at a meeting of the Corporation to be 
held at any time before the Afteenth day of September following the close of the 
Anancial year to which the accounts relate . 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2737 


11. Authentication of annual accounts and reports.-- - The annual accounts together 
with the auditors report thereon and an annual report on the work and activities 
of the Corporation shall be signed by the members and authenticated by affixing 
the common seal of the Corporation . Four copies thereof shall be submitted to 
the Central Government not later than six months after the close of the financial 
year to which the accounts relate 


12 . Cost of Audit - The cost of audit shall be paid by the Corporation within 
three months from the date on which the demand therefor is made by the Comp 
troller and Auditor General of India 


13 . Publication of Accounts . — The Corporation shall cause to be published in 
such manner as the Central Government may determine the annual accounts and 
the auditors certificate thereon within one month of their submission to the Central 
Government. 


14 Impropriety or irregularity in accounts. - ( 1) The auditors shall furnish the 
Corporation and the Central Government with a statement each , where necessary, 
in regard to any material impropriety or irregularity which the auditors may 
observe in the expenditure or in the recovery of money due to , or in the accounts . 
of the Corporation . 

( 2 ) The Corporation shall ſorthwith remedy any defect or irregularity that may 
be pointed out by the auditors and shall report to the Central Government the 
action taken by it thereon within ninety days of the receipt of the report of the 
auditors : 

Provided that , if there is any differende of opinion between the Corporation and 
the auditors , or if the Corporation does not remedy any defect or irregularity within 
a reasonable period or render a satisfactory explanation in regard to the defect 
or irregularity , the Central Government may , and , on reference specifically made 
therefor hy the auditor , shall , in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General, pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit and the Corporation shall there 
after take action in accordance therewith within such time as may be specified by 
the Central Government. 


CHAPTER III 

STATISTICS, REPORTS AND RETURNS 
15 . Reports . - ( 1 ) The annual report to be submitted by the Corporation to the 
Central Government under section 37 regarding its activities during the previous 
Anancial year , shall contain particulars , amongst others , in respect of the following 
items and shall be in such form as the Central Government may from time to 
time direct , namely : 

( a ) routes ; 
(b ) operations; 
( c ) traffic and sales ; 
( d ) passenger services ; 
( e) engineering and maintenance : 
( 1) staff ; 
(8 ) organisation ; 
(h ) Anance and accounts; and 

( 1) subsidiary and associate companies. 
( 2 ) The Corporation shall also submit, along with the annual report under 
section 37, a separate report on the operational result of any additional service or 
other ancillary activity undertaken during the previous financial year in pursuance 
of the proviso to sub - section ( 2 ) of section 36 . Every such report shall contain , 
subject to any addition or alteration which may be specified from time to time. 
particulars in respect of the following matters , namely 
( a ) the places to and from which the air transport service is operated Includ 

ing intermediate stops; 
( b ) the number and types of the aircraft operated on the air transport ser 

vice . with such particulars of the aircraft and engines as may be 
required ; and 


2738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


[Part II - SEC , 3 


-- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


( c ) the number of pilots , wireless operators and other members of the air 

crew employed on the service and the number of licensed ground engl 

neers and other technical or non -technical personnel employed . 
( 3 ) The following information relating to services operated and load carried 
shall be supplied separately each month in relation to each route : - 


( i ) Services operated : 

(a ) frequency : 
(b ) number scheduled ; 
(c ) number and percentage completed without interruption ; 
( d ) number and percentage Interrupted en route and the cause and extent 

of delay , 
( e ) number and percentage not commenced and the causes ; 
(1) number and percentage not completed and the causes ; 
( 8 ) number of unpremeditated landings . the services affected and the 

reasons; 
( h ) regular stops overflown and the causes; 
(1) hours flown ; and 
( 1) miles Aown , 


( 11 ) Load carried : 
( a ) distance , pay load (lbs.) and the number of seats normally available 

for each stage ; 


( b ) mean payload capacity operated , i.e., (sum of payloads for each stage X 

Mileage of stage ) , Total route mileage ; 
(« ) capacity ton / miles operated ; 
( d ) number of passengers carried on each stage (revenue and non -revenue 

separately ) ; 
( e) passenger miles effected (revenue and non -revenue separately ); 
( f) passenger ton / mlles effected ( revenue and non - revenue separately ) ; 
(8 ) mean percentage of passenger seats occupied ; 
(h ) weight of passenger excess baggage carried ( revenue and non -revenue 

separately ) ; 
(i ) cxcess baggage ton /miles effected ( revenue and non - revenue separately ) ; 
( j ) weight of mails carried , 
(k ) mall or ton /miles effected ; 
(1) weight of freight ( including newspapers) carried (revenue and non -revenue 

separately ) ; 
(m ) freight ton /miles effected (revenue and non -revenue separately ) ; 
(n ) total ton / mlles ell ected (revenue and non -revenue separately ) ; 
(o ) mean percentage of total payload capacity Alled 


(ili) Revenue earned : 


( a ) passenger revenue ; 
(b ) excess baggage revenue: 
( c ) mall revenue; 

(d ) freight revenue . 
16 Periodicul returns. — ( 1) The Corporation shall submit to the Central Gov 
crnment and to such authority as it may specify : 

( a ) weekly returns in regard to delays , alterations or deviations of the air trang 
port services Subject to any additions or alterations which may be made from 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 

2739 
- - - - - - - 

- = = 
time to time, such reports shall contain information and explanatory notes in ręs 
pect of the following matters, that is to say 
( i) delays exceeding thirty minutes on the scheduled passenger air services 

operated on domestic air routes and on air routes to the neighbouring 

foreign countries ; 
( il ) delays exceeding two hours on the scheduled wir services operated on long 

haul international routes , 
( iii) alterations or deviations of the scheduled route made for reasons other 

than securing the safety of crew , passengers , freight or mail; and 
(iv ) cancellations of scheduled air services ; 
( b ) monthly returns regarding the operations of the air transport services so as 
to reach not later than 30 days after the expiry of the month to which the return re 
lates ; such returns shall , subject to any additions or alterations which may be speci 
fled from time to time, contain information on the items mentioned in sub -rule ( 3 ) 
of rule 15 ; 

( C ) annual returns regarding the financial results of the Corporation during 
each year as soon as these are ready in such form as may be laid down by the Cen 
tral Government from time to time; and 

( d ) periodical returns to be furnished to the International Civil Aviation 
Organisation in such forms as may be laid down from time to time. 

( 2 ) No information furnished in the annual return mentioned in clause (c ) of 
sub - rule ( 1) shall be published or disclosed without the consent of the Corporation 
and if any person publishes or discloses any such information without such con 
sent, he shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence punishable under these rules : 

Provided that nothing in this sub - rule shall apply to the publication or disclosure 
of any information for the purpose of any legal proceeding by any person authorised 
by the Chairman in this behalf . 


17 . Power to obtain supplementary report of information . - Notwithstanding any 
thing contained in rules 15 and 16 , the Central Government may require special 
reports from the Corporation and lay down the manner and the form in which such 
reports shall be made or may require from the Corporation answers to questions 
upon which the Central Government may need information . The Central Govern 
ment may also require the Corporation to furnish a true copy of each or any con 
tract, agreement, understanding or arrangement , between the Corporation and any 
other carrier or person , in relation to any traffic affected by the provisions of the 
Art. 


CHAPTER IV 


BONDS 
18 . Form of bond and the mode of transjer thereoj. — ( 1 ) Any bond issued by 
the Corporation shall be issued in Form I specified in the Schedule as a promissory 
note payable to , or to the order of, a person iri denominations of Rs. 10 , 50 , 100 , 
1,000, 5 ,000 , 10 ,000 and 25 ,000 . 

( 2 ) A bond shall be transferable by endorsement and delivery , like a promissory 
note payable to order 

( 3 ) No endorsement of a bond shall be valid unless it is made by the holder 
in his own handwriting or mode on his behall by his duly constituted attorney or 
representative, inscribed on the back of the bond itself 

( 4 ) No writing on a bond shall be valid for the purpose of negotiation , if such 
writing purports to transfer only part of the amount denominated by the bond . 

(5 ) (a ) The bonds shall be issued over the joint signature of the Chairman or 
an officer authorised by the Chairman in this behalf (hereinafter referred to as 
the " authorised omcer" ) and a member of the Corporation which may be printed , 
engraved or lithographed or impressed by such other mechanical process as the 
Corporation may direct. 

( b ) A signature so printed , engraved . lithographed or otherwise impressed shall 
he as valid as it it had been inscribed in the proper handwriting of the signatory 
himself . 


19 . Trust not recognised . — The Corporation shall not be bound or compelled to 
recognise in any way any trust or any right ir . respect of a bond other than an 
nhsolute right thereto in the holder , 


- - - - - 


2740 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 [Part 11 — Sec . 3 
- - - - - -- - -- - - - -- - - - - - - 

20 . Persons disqualified to be holders . No minor and no person who has been 
found by a competent court to be of ursound mind shall be entitled to be the holder 
ot a bond . 


21. Puyment of interest . — ( 1 ) The interest due on a bond may be paid on receipt 
of the bond either by post or otherwise at the head office of the Corporation in 
hall - yearly instalments in January and July each year , 

( 2 ) The interest shall be paid by means of a cheque on a scheduled bank . 


22 . Procedure when bond is lost. - ( 1) Every application for the issue of a dupli 
( ato bond in place of a bond which is alleged to have been lost, siolen , destroyed , 
mutilated or defaced , either wholly or in part , shall be addressed to the Corpora 
tion and shall contain the following particulars , namely : 
( a ) particulars of the bond , viz ., Bond for Rs... .. .. .. No .. ... .. .. .. .. ... ...of the 

Bond.. . .... .. . . . . .. . .. . . ; 
(b ) last half-year for which interest has been paid ; 
· ( c ) the person to whom such interest was paid ; 

( d ) the person in whose name the bond was issued ( if known ); 
( e ) the circumstances attending the loss, theft , destruction , mutilation or 

defacement; and 
· (I) whether the loss or theft was reported to the police, 
( 2) Such application shall be accompanied by - - 
( a ) where the bond was lost in course of transmission by registered post, 

the post office registration receipt for the letter containing the bond ; 
(b ) a copy of the police report, if the loss or theft was reported to the police ; 
( c ) if the applicant is not the registered holder, an affidavit sworn before a 

inagistrate testifying that the applicant was the last legal holder of 
the bond , and all documentary evidence necessary to trace back the 

title to the registered holder ; and 
( d ) any portion or fragments which may remain of the lost, stolen , destroyed , 

mutilated or defaced bond . 


23 . Notice in Gazette . The loss , theft , destruction mutilation or defacement of 
a bond or portion of a bond shall forthwith be notified by the applicant at his cost 
In three successive issues of the Gazette of India and of the local official Gazette , 
if any, of the State in which the loss , theft , destruction , mutilation or defacement 
occurred. Such notice shall be in the following form or as nearly in such form 
as circumstances permit , namely : 
" (" Lost" , " stolen " , " destroyed ” , "mutilated " , or " defaced" as the case may 

be ) . The bond bearing No . , . . . . . . . . of the Indian Airlines / Air India 
International Corporation for Rs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , original standing 
in the name of ... . .. .. .. .. . .. ... .and last endorsed to . .. .. .. . .. ., the pro 
prietor , by whom it was never endorsed to any other person , having 
been lost ( stolen , destroyed , mutilated or defaced ) , notice is hereby 
given that payment of the above bond and the interest thereon has 
been stopped at the office of issue, and that an application is about 
to be made or has been made for the issue of a duplicate in tavour 
of the proprietor, The public are cautioned against purchasing or 

otherwise dealing with the above mentioned bond . 
Name of person notifying. 
Residence." 


24. Issue of duplicate bond and taking of indemnity . - ( 1 ) After the publication 
of the notice as required by rule 23 , the authorised officer shall, if he is satisfied 
of the loss , theft , destruction , mutilation or defacement of the bond and of the 
justice of the claim of the applicant, cause the particulars of the bond to be included 
in a list published under rule 25 and shall order the omce 

( a ) if only a portion of the bond has been lost , stolen , destroyed , mutilated or 
defaced , and if a portion thereof sufficient for its identifcation has been produced , 
to pay interest and to issue to the applicant, on execution of an indemnity bond 
such as is hereinafter mentioned and on payment of the prescribed fee , a dupli 
cate bond in place of that of which a portion has been so lost, stolen , destroyed , 
mutilated or defaced either immediately after the publication of the list under 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2741 


rule 25 or on the expiry of such period as the authorised officer may consider neces 
sary from the date of the publication of the said iist; 

(b ) if no portion of the bond so lost, stolen , destroyed , mutilated or defaced , 
suficient for its identification , has been produced 
( 1) to pay to the applicant, one year after the publication of the said list , 

and on the execution of an indemnity bond in the manner horeinafter 
prescribed , the interest in respect of the bond so lost, stolen , destroyed , 
mutila ed or defaced till the expiry of the period of three years as 

hereinafter provided ; and 
(il) to issue to the applicant on payment of the prescribed fee, a duplicate 

bond in place of the bond so lust , stolen , destroyed , mutilated or 

defaced three years after the date of publication of the said list : 
Provided that: 
(1) it the date on which the bond is due for repayınent falls earlier than the 

date on which the said period of three years expires, the authorised 
officer shall, within six weeks of the former date , Invest the principal 
amount due on the bond in the Post Omice Savings Bank , and shall 
repay this amount, together with any interest which may have accrued 
thereon in such bank to the applicant at the time when a duplicate 

bond would otherwise have been issued ; and 
(ii ) if at any time before the issue of the duplicate bond , the original bond 

is discovered or it apeary to the office of issue for other reasons that 
the order should be rescinded , the malter shall be referred to the 
authorised officer for further consideration and in the meantime all 
action on the order shall be suspended . An order passed under this 
sub -rule shall, on expiry of the period of three years referred to be 
come Anal unless it is in the meantime rescinded or otherwise modified . 


( 2 ) The athorised officer may, at any time prior to the issue of a duplicate bond , 
if he finds sufffcient reason , alter or cancel any order made by him under this rule 
and may also direct that the interval before the issue of a duplicate bond shall 
be extended by such period , not exceeding two years as he may think fit. 

( 3 ) (i) An indemnity bond shall be for twice the face value of a bond plus twice 
the amount of interest accrued due thereon , 

(II) The authorised officer may direct that such indemnity bond shall be executed 
by the applicant alone or by the applicant and one or two sureties approved by 
him as he may think At. 

25 . Publication of list.- -- ( 1 ) The list referred to in rule 24 shall be published 
half -yearly in the Gazette of India in the months of January and July or as soon 
thereafter as may be convenient. 

( 2 ) All bonds in respect of which an order has been passed under rule 24 shall 
be included in the first list published next after the passing of such order . 

(3 ) The list shall contain the following particulars regarding each bond included 
therein , namely , the name of the office of issue , the number of the bond, its value , 
the name of the persons to whom it was issued , the date from which it bears Inter 
est, the name of the applicant for a duplicate , the number and date of the order 
passed by the authorised officer for payment of interest or issue of a duplicate , 
and the date of publication of the list in which the bond was Arst included . 


26 . Determination of a mutilated bond as a bond requiring renewal. - The autho 
rised ofßcer shall determine whether a bond which has bren mutilated or defaced 
requires the issue of a duplicate under rule 24 or a rencwal under rule 27 . 

27 . When a bond is required to be tencned – ( 1 ) A holder of a hond may be 
required by the authorised officer to submit the cams for renewal ir any of the 
following cases , namely : — 
( 9 ) If only sufficient room remains on the back of the hond for one further 

endorsement or if any word is written upon the bond across the exist 

ing endorsement of endorsements; or 
(b ) if the bond is , in the opinion of the autliorised officer , toru or in any 

way , damaged or crowded with writing or clumsy ; or 
( c ) if any endorsement is not clear and distinct or does not indicate the payee 

or pavees , as the case may be, by name or is made otherwise than in 
one of the endorsement cages on the back of the bond ; or 


2742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


- 


( d ) if the interest or the bond has remained undrawn for three years or 

more ; or 
( e ) if the bond having been enfaced three times for payment of interest is 

presented for re - enfacement; or 
( f) if in the opinion of the office of issue, the title of the person presenting 

the bond for payment of Interest is Irregular or not fully proved. 
(2 ) When a requisition for renewal of a bond has been made under sub -rule ( 1 ) 
payment of any further interest thereon shall be refused until it is submitted for 
renewal and actually renewed . 

28 , Person whose title to a bond of a deceased sole holder may be recognised . — . 
( 1 ) The executors or administrators of a deceased sole holder of a bond (whether 
a Hindu , Mohammedan , Parsi or otherwise ) and the holder of a succession certi 
ficate issued under Part X of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (XXXIX of 1925 ) 
in respect of the bond shall be the only persons who may be recognised by the 
office of issue ( subject to any general or special instructions of the authorised 
officer ) as having any title to the bond . 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 45 of the Indian Contract Act, 
1872 (LX of 1872) , in the case of a bond issued , sold or held payable to two or more 
holders jointly , the survivors or survivor, and on the death of the last survivor , 
his executors , administrators , or any person who is the holder of a succession certi 
ficate in respect of such bond shall be the only person who may be recognised by 
the Corporation ( subject to any general or special , Instructions of the authorised 
officer ) as having any title to such bond : 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall effect any claim which any representa 
tives of a deceased holder of such bond may have against the survivors or survivor 
or his executors or administrators under or in respect of any bond to which this 
sub - rule applies 

( 3 ) The Corporation shall not be bound to recognise such executors or admin 
Istrators unless they shall have obtained probate or letters or administration or 
other legal representation , as the case may be, from a competent court : 

Provided nevertheless that in any case where the authorised officer shall in his 
absolute discretion think fit , it shall be lawful for him to dispense with the produc 
tion of probate , letters of administration or other legal representation upon such 
terms as to indemnity or otherwise as he may think fit . 


29 . Receipt for renewal etc . - ( 1 ) Subject to any general or special instructions 
of the authorised officer , the Corporation , by its order , on the application of the 
holder, on his delivering the bond or bonds and on his satisfying the Corporation 
regarding the justice of his claim , renew , sub -divide or consolidate a bond or bonds 
provided the bond or bonds has or have been receipted in Form II , III or IV . 
as the case may be , and the fee laid down by the Corporation in this behalf has 
been paid . 

( 2 ) The Corporation may , under the orders of the authorised officer, require the 
applicant for renewal, sub - division or consolidation of a bond under sub - rule ( 1) to 
execute a bond in Form v with one or more sureties approved by such authorised 
officer . 


30 . Renewal of bond in case of dispute as to title . - Where there is a dispute as 
to the title to a bond in respect of which an application for renewal has been made 
the authorised officer may 
( a ) Where any party to the dispute has obtained a final decision from a 

court of competent jurisdiction declaring him to be entitled to such 

bond , issue a renewed bond in favour of such party , or 
(b ) refuse to renew the bond until such a decision has been obtained . 
Explanation . For the purposes of this rule , the expression final decision 
means a decision which is not appealable or a decision which is appealable but 
against which no appeal has been Aled within the period of limitation allowed by 
law , 

31. Liability in respect of bond renewed . — When a duplicate bond or a renewed 
bond has been issued or a new bond has been issued upon sub -division or consoll 
dation under rule 29 in favour of a person , the hond so issued shall be deemed 
to constitute a contract hetween the Corporation and such person and all persons 
deriving title thereafter through him . 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2743 


32 . Duscharge. The Corporation shall be discharged from all liability in rospect 
of the bond or bonds paid on maturity or in place of which a duplicate , renewed , 
sub -divided or consolidated bond or bonds has or have been issued 

33 . Cessution of payment of interest. - A person to whom the Corporation has 
offered the face value of a bond shall cease to be entitled to payment of any inter 
est on the value of the bond after the expiry of thirty days from the date of the 
offer if he fails to accept payment of the amount within that period . 

34. Discharge of a bond . -- -When a bond becomes due for payment of principal, 
the bond shall be presented at the office of the Corporation duly signed by the 
holder on its reverse . 

35 . Fees . - - A fee not exceeding half percentum of the face value shall be paid 
in respect of each new bond issued on renewal, sub -division or consolidation under 
rule 29 , and also in respect of a duplicate bond 


CHAPTER V 

TRAINING OF OPERATIONAL STAFF 
36 . Provision of courses for theoretical and practical training , — The Corpora 
tion shall arrange for theoretical and practical training of its flying crew , mainte 
nance and operational staff and its technical personnel in consultation with the 
Director General of Civil Aviation : 

Provided that the Corporation may , in its discretion , admit other persons also 
to undergo such courses of training . 

37. Liability of an employee to undergo training and test . - An employee of any 
of the categories specified in rule 36 when called upon by the Corporation to do 
80 , shall undergo such courses of training , examination and tests , whether practical 
or theoretical, written or oral, as may from time to time be laid down by the 
Corporation , 


38. Deputation for specialised training. - ( 1) The Corporation may , in its discre 
tion , or if so desired by the Central Government, shall depute any of its employees 
for specialised training to a technical institution either in India or abroad . The 
employees shall undergo and satisfactorily complete the course of training in such 
Institution , 

( 2) An employee selected for a specialised training shall , if so required by the 
Chairman before the commencement of training , execute an agreement binding 
himself to serve the Corporation for such minimum period on the completion of 
his training as the Chairman may require, or in the alternative to refund to the 
Corporation the sums paid by the Corporation to him during the period of his 
training , whether as salary , stipends, fees , travelling expenses , or otherwise . 


39 . Levy of fees. -- No fee shall be charged Or Tevied by the Corporation 
in respect of courses of training provided , or examinations and tests conducted , for 
their employees and connected with the nature of duties assigned to such employees : 

Provided that nothing herein contained shall restrict the right of the Corporation 
to levy the prescribed fees in respect of persons other than its employees . 


40. No fees for testing the proficiency of an employee for the performance of 
assioned duties. — No fee shall be charged for any examination or test conducted 
by the Corporation for testing the proficiency of an employee of the Corporation 
for the performance of duties assigned to him . 

41. Payment of stipends and allowances during training . - - The Corporation shall 
pay such stipends and allowances in addition to the normal emoluments as may 
be specified from time to time whenever an employee of the Corporation is deputed 
for training either in India or abroad, 

42 . Selection of candidates for undergoing training . - The Selection of candi 
dates , not in the service of the Corporation , for undergoing courses of training 
established by the Corporation or arranged for either in India or abroad shall be 
made by one or more selection boards to be nominated by the Corporation in con 
sultation with the Director General of Civil Aviation : 

Provided that nothing contained herein shall restrict the right of the Corpora 
tion to nom nate separate selection boards for selecting employees of the Corpora 
tion for different courses of training. 


2744 


2744 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBE 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


CHAPTER VI 
43. Interference with the property and employees of the Corporation . — ( 1) Save 
as otherwise authorised under the provision of any law for the time being in force, 
no person shall , directly or indirectly , interfere with or cause interference with 
the operation of any air transport service or with any property of the Corporation 
or interfere with or obstruct a member of the operating crew of an aircraft in 
the performance of his duty or tamper with the aircraft or its equipment or 
conduct himself in & disorderly manner in an aircraft or commit any act likely 
to imperil the safety of an aircraft or its passenger or crew . 

( 2 ) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this rule shall be . 
punishable in respect of every such contravention with imprisonment which may 
extend to three months or with fine which may extend to rupees one thousand 
or with both . 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding the contract of carriage, the pilot in command of an air 
transport service may refuse to carry any person in the aircraft if such person 
tampers with the aircraft or its equipment or commits any act likely to Imperil 
Its safety . 

CHAPTER VII 

AIR TRANSPORT COUNCIL 
44 . Term of Office . The term of office of the Chairman or any other member 
of the Air Transport Council (hereinafter referred to as the Council ) shall be for 
a period of three years commencing from the date on which the appointment of 
the Chairman or other member is notified in the official Gazette : 

Provided that the Chairman or other member shall , notwithstanding the expiry 
of the said period , continue to hold office until the appointment of his successor is 
80 notifled . 

45 . Resignation - The Chairman or any other member of the Council may, at 
Any time, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the Central Govern 
ment, resign his office : 

Provided that such resignation shall take effect from the date on which it la 
accepted by the Central Government. 

46 . Restriction on a member considering representation in which he is in 
terested in his personal capacity .-- NO member of the Council shall sit to consider 
a representation or question il, in respect of the matters to which the representa 
tion or question relates , he has, in his personal capacity , any special interest such 
as may tend to interefere with his impartial consideration of the representation 
or question and any member having such special interest shall notify the same to 
the Central Government and the Council immediately on the representation being 
made or the question being referred to the Council, as the case may be. 

47 . Removal of the Chairman and members. The Central Government may 
by notification in the official Gazette, remove from office the Chairman or any 
other member of the Council who: 
( i) in the opinion of the Central Government, has failed or is unable to 

carry out his duties, or 
(11) without sufficient cause is absent from threc consecutive meetings of 

the Council . 
48. Temporary absence of a member . If any member is by inArmity or other 
wise rendered temporarily incapable of carrying out his duties or is absent on 
leave or otherwise in circumstances not involving the vacation of his appoint 
ment, the Central Government may appoint another person to act in his place . 

49. Eligibility for re -appointment. - A member of the Council who ceases to 
be a member shall be eligible for re -appointment. 

CHAPTER VIII 

Functions of the Advisory Committee 
50. ( 1 ) The Advisory Committee constituted under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
41 may , in addition to such matters as may be referred to it by the Corporation 
also advise the Corporation in respect of the following matters , namely : - 

(i) provision of amenitics for air travellers; 
( ii ) improvement of scrvices and facilities provided by the Corporation ; 


L 


( iii ) time- tables of air services ; 
( iv ) extensions or improvements of the existing projects ; 
( v ) proposals relating to opening of new air stations; and 

( vi ) any other matter of general public interest or public convenience : 
Provided that matters relating to the staff, discipline and appointment shall 
not be referred to the Committee for advice . 


CHAPTER IX 


LABOUR RELATIONS COMMITTEE 
51. Constitution . - ( 1 ) ( a ) A Labour Relations Committee shall be constituted 
by each of the Corporations consisting of such equal number of representatives 
of the Corporation and of its employees , which shall not be less than six and not 
more than twelve, as the Corporation may, from time to time, by resolution , 
determine . 

(b ) It shall be the duty of the Labour Relations Committee to advise the 
Corporation on all matters which relate to the welfare of the employees or which 
are likely to promote and secure amity and good relations between the two . If 
there is any difference of opinion between the Corporation and the Committee 
on any question as to whether or not any particular matter relates to the welfare 
of the employees or is one which is likely to remote and secure amity and good 
relations between the Corporation and its employees , the opinion of the Corpora 
tion shall prevail, 

( 2 ) ( a ) The tenure of office of a member of the Committee shall be two years 
but an outgoing member shall be eligible for being re - elected . 

( b ) If any casual vacancy occurs in the office of a member of the Committee, 
the Corporation shall, as soon as may be after the occurrence of the vacancy and 
subject always to the provisions of sub - rules ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , appoint a person to 
fill the vacancy from among its own representatives or representatives of its 
employees , according as the member causing the casual vacancy was a represent 
ative of the Corporation or, as the case may be, a representative of its employees 
and every member so appointed shall continue in office for the unexpired term of 
his predecessor. 

( 3 ) The Corporation shall nominate its own representatives on the Committee. 

( 4 ) The representatives of employees on the Committee shall be elected by 
the employees of the Corporation by means of a secret ballot from amongst them 
selves working in the various units and for the purposes of the same, the Corpora 
tion shall divide the employees into six units : 

Provided that the representatives of the employees shall be so elected as to 
ensure a representation to each of the units. 
(5 ) ( a ) The officers of the Committee shall include 

( i) a Chairman ; and 

(ii ) a Secretary ; 
( b ) The principal executive officer of the Corporation in charge of labour 
weltare shall be entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee and shall also 
have the right to speak at, and otherwise take part in , any meeting of the Com 
mittee but shall not be entitled to vote or move any resolution , if he is not a 
member thereof. 

( 6 ) The Chairman of the first Labour Relations Committee shall be the Chals 
man of the Corporation or a member of the Committee appointed by the Chairman 
in this behalf . Thereafter the Committee shall elect one of its members to be 
the Chairman of the Committee, so however , that a representative of the Corpora 
tion or a representative of its employees is the Chairman of the Committee in 
-alternate years . 

( 7 ) The Secretary of the Committee shall be elected by the Committee for a 
period of one year from amongst the representatives of the Corporation and of 
the employees , so however , that if, in any term , the Chairman of the Committee 
18 a representative of the Corporation , the Secretary for that term shall be a re 
presentative of the employees of the Corporation to be elected from amongst its 
own number and vice - versa . 


I 


1 VIA , I w . 


41 , 


Lin . 1 


(8 ) The Committee may constitute one or more ad hoc sub - committees as it 
thinks fit to inquire into any matter and submit its report to the Committee or 
may appoint a Standing and Branch or Regional sub - committee and entrust to it 
such functions and duties as the Committee may with the previous approval of 
the Corporation direct. 


52, Functions of officers. - ( 1 ) The Chairamn of the Committee shall ordinaſily 
preside over meetings and shall exercise general control and supervision . He 
shall also decide all questions of order at the meeting. 

( 2 ) In the absence of the Chairman any other member elected by the mem 
bers present shall preside at a meeting . 

( 3 ) The Secretary shall keep a record of the minutes of meetings. 

53 . Meetings. — ( 1 ) Meetings shall ordinarily be held at least once in two 
months at the headquarters of the Corporation or at such other places as the 
Chairman of the Corporation or the Committee may determine. If and when 
necessary , special meetings may be convencd by the Chairman . 

( 2 ) A special meeting shall be held at a fortnight s notice on a reguisition 
made by at least five members of the Committee , for consideration of any urgent 
matter . 


54 . Attendance at meetings. - ( 1 ) The members of the Committee shall be 
considered to be on duty for the period of attendance at meetings of the Com 
mittee or while doing any other work for , and on behalf of the Committee and 
shall be paid the usual travelling and daily allowances and wages , including 
other allowances , for such period . 

( 2 ) Any member who fails to attend three consecutive meetings shall forfeit 
his membership , unless the Committee decides otherwise . This provision shall 
not apply to the Chairman . 

55 . Agenda and notice for meeting. - ( 1 ) The agenda for each meeting shall 
be drawn up by the Secretary under the Chairman s directions and the same shall 
be supplied to each member of the Committee along with the notice of the 
meeting at least a week before the meeting, except in the case of a special meeting . 
Members desiring to raise any question should send notice in advance along with a 
memorandum . It shall be included in the agenda if approved by the Chairman , 

( 2 ) Business other than that appearing in the agenda shall be considered at 
any meeting, only with the permission of the Chairman . The presence of a 
majority of members from each side of the Committee, that is to say , from among 
the representatives of the Corporation and representatives of the employees , shall 
be necessary to constitute a quorum . No quorum shall be necessary for an ad 
Journed meeting. 


56 . Facilities for the meeting ,-- Accommodation for holding meetings and all 
other facilities necessary for the functioning of the Committee shall be provided 
by the Corporation . 

57. Administration and working . ( 1 ) The Chairman of the Committee shall 
be in the administrative charge of the Committee office, records, and equipment 
of the Committee . 

( 2 ) The Secretary shall assist the Chairman in the administration and work 
ing of the Committee s office . 


58 . Proceedings and decisions of the Committee . - ( 1 ) All questions brought 
before any meeting of the Committee shall be decided by a majority of the mem 
bers of the Committee present and voting before which the matter is brought and 
in the case of equality of votes, the Presiding authority at the meeting shall have 
a second or casting vote . 

( 2 ) The functions of the Committee shall be purely advisory and the Corpora 
tion may or may not accept any advice tendered to it by the Committee . 

( 9 ) Minutes of meetings shall be drawn up by the Secretary and after approy 
al by the Chairman , he shall send a copy of the same to each member . 

(4 ) It shall be lawful for the Committee to give such publicity to all important 
matters relating to the welfare of the employees of the Corporation as the 
Corporation may from time to time direct . 


, 


- " "41 


1 . 


6 


. 


CHAPTER X 

PENALTIES 
59 . If any person contravenęs any provision of these rules other than the 
rules for the contravention of whose provision separate penalty has been pro 
vided in such rules , he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupees . 

THE SCHEDULE 

FORM I 
[ Sve rule 18 ] 

Bond 
No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. . . . . . . . . . 

Indian Airlines 
Air - India International 

3 per cent. Bonds 1954 . 
Issued in pursuance of section 27 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 , ( 27 of 
1953 ) , and guaranteed by the Central Government as to the repayment of the 
principal and the payment of interest in terms of that section . 


The Indian Airlincs 

, in consideration of value of assets taken over , 
Air India International 
does hereby promise to pay to . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .OR ORDER 
on demand at the office of the Indian Airlines 

on any day between 

Air - India International 
the 1st day of August , 1958 , and the 27th day of January , 1959 , the sum of 
Rs. , 

. . . . . . and to pay interest on such sum from the 1st day of August, 
1953, to the date on which the same shall become payable as aforesaid , at the rate 
of three and a half per cent. per annum , such interest to be paid by equal half 
yearly payments on the 1st day of January and on the 1st day of July in every 
year. 

This bond is transferable by endorsement. 
FOR INDIAN AIRLINES 

the 1st July , 1953, Chairman or 
AIR - INDIA INTERNATIONAL 
authorised officer , , . . . . . . . . . .Member. Rs. . . . . . . . . No. . . . . . . . . . . All endorso 
ments upon this bond must be clear and distinct. All endorsements if not made 
in the English language must be translated into English immediately below the 
endorsement. 

Receipts for interest are not required on this bond. 
Cross endorsements are inadmissible . 


Principal amount Rs . 


Interest payments at Rs. 

year . 


per balf 


Receiptsforinterestarenotrequired onthisbond.Crossendorsementsare inadmissible. 


Received in lieu hereof a renewed 

bond payable to . . . . . . . 
with interest payable at . . . 


Thesespacesarereservedforendorse mentandeachendorsementshouldbe -Writtenwithinthespaceallotted. 


Interest cages to be printed . 


Holder s signature . . . . . . . . 


This bond can be renewed at any time at the option of the holder on payment 
of the prescribed fee . Should this bond bear no endorsement ( other than the 
renewal endorsement) when the interest column has been exhausted , no renewal 
fee will be charged . 


.. 


6 


211. 


. . . IA , 1 


x 


1 , 1 bu . . 


- wzo 


FORM II 

[ See rule 29 ( 1) ] 
Form of endorsement for renewal of a bond 
Received in lleu hereof a renewed bond payable to (name of holder ), with 
Interest payable at the office of the Corporation , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signature of the holder /duly authorised representative of (name of holder) . . . . 


FORM III 

[See rule 29 (1) ] 
Form of endorsement for sub - dlvision of a bond 
Received in lieu thereof . . . . . ... . . . bonds Nos.. . . . . . for Rs.. . 
respectively , payable to ( name of holder ) . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .with interest payable 
at the office of the Corporation . 

Signature of the holder / duly authorised representative of (name of holder ) 


FORM IV 

[ See rule 29 (1 ) ] 
Form of endorsement for consolidation of bonds. 
Received in lieu hereof a new bond payable to ( name of holder ) for 
Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . .by consolidation with bond or bonds Nos.. . . . . . . . . . . . (mentioning 
the numbers and amounts of the other bonds desired to be consolidated with it 
and specifying the issue ) with interest payable at the office of the Corporation . 

Signature of the holder / duly authorised representative of (name of holder) 


FORM V 

[ See rule 29 (1) ] 
Know all men by these presents that we 

- ( a ) Principal 
Son of 
Resident of 
and 
Son of 
Resident of 
and 
Son of 
Resident of 

( b ) Sureties 
hereby bind ourselves and each of us, our and each of our heirs, executors , 
administrators and representatives and all of them jointly and severally to the 
Corporation for payment of the sum of Rs. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to the said Corpora 
tion , its certain attorneys , guccessors and assigns. 

AND I / each of us the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . hereby covenant with the said 
Corporation that if any suit shall be brought touching the subject matter of this 
obligation or the condition hereunder written in any competent court, the same 
may , at the instance of the said Corporation be removed unto , tried and deter 
mined by, the High Court to which the Court may be subordinate . 

WHEREAS the said . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . (a ) has applied to the Corporation for 
the renewal/ consolidation / sub - division of the bond ( bonds ) issued by the said 
Corporation mentioned in the schedule hereto . 


PART , Etc . 8 } 


AB GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1984 


2749 


( a ) 


AND WHEREAS the said Corporation have consented and agreed to accept 
the said application on the said 

( a ) Principal with two good and sufficient 
Buretieg entering into and executing the above written bond subject to the condi 
tion hereunder written ; 
AND WHEREAS the above bounden 

( and ) - at the request of 
the said 

- - ( a ) has (have ) agreed to become surety ( suraties ) 
for ( a ) and to join with the said - 

- ( a ) in executing the above written 
bond . 

NOW the condition of the above written bond is such that if the above bound 
en 

( b ) or each of them or their heirs, 
executors ( b ) Names of the Principal and sureties of ( a ) administrators or re 
presentatives or any or either of them shall from time to time and at all times 
hereafter effectually save , defend , keep harmless and indemnified the said 
Corporation from and against the claims and demands of all persons claiming to 
be entitled to the bond (bonds ) issued by the said Corporation mentioned in the 
schedules hereto or to any interest thereon and of all other persons whomsoever 
in respect of the said bond (bonds ) or the renewal thereof or the payment of 
any interest thereon and from and against all damages, losses , costs , charges and 
expenses which the said Corporation may sustain , incur or be lable to for or in 
consequence of any such claim or demand or by reason of the issue of renewed 
bond (bonds ) as aforesaid or the payment of any interest due on the said bond 
(bonds ) or renewed bond (bonds ) then the above written bond shall be void but 
otherwise the same shall remain in full force and effect . 

Signed and delivered by 


in the presence of 
and of 


Date : 


The Schedule herein referred to 


Nature and description of 

the bond 


Number 


Date of issue 


Amount 


If there are two sureties. 


[ No. 14 - CAG ( 15) / 53 . ) 

B . N . JHA , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 27th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3621. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clauses ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) ot 
clause 4 of the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1951, 
and in partial modification of the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, No. S . R . O . 1259 , dated the 9th April, 1964, the Central Goy 
ernment hereby appoints Shri K . A . Dubash , a representative of the Bombay 
Stevedores Association , as a member representing the employers of dock workers 
and shipping companies in the Bombay Dock Labour Board , vice Shri D . A . 
Dhunjibhoy resigned . 

[No. Fac. 73 (69 ). 


27.50 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1884 [ RART II- - SEC . 3 

SER 

= SS 
New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S .R . O . 3622 . - In pursuance of section 10 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of labour No . S .R . O . 1209, dated the 8th April, 
1954 , namely : 

In the said notification 

( 1 ) items (20 ) to ( 28 ) shall be renumbered as items (21 ) to ( 29 ) respectively ; 
and 
( 2 ) after item ( 19 ) , the following item shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 20 ) Dr. B . N . Sharma, M . B . B . S ., F . A . C . S ., F . V . A . S ., Director of Medical & 
Health Services, Rajasthan , Jaipur." 

[NO. SS. 121 (84 ). ] 
New Delhi, the 30th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3523 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clauses ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) 
of clause 4 of the Madras Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 
1952 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. S . R . O . 1416 , dated the 14th July 1953 , namely : 
In the said notification under the heading " Representatives of employers 

and shipping companies" , in items ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , for the entries " Shri 
C . Machado " and " Shri J . R . Galloway " , the entries " Shri J . N . Lobo 
and " Shri E . F . G . Hunter " shall be respectively substituted . 
[Amendment No. 2 ] 

[No. Fac. 78 ( 2 ) -1 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
8 . R . O . 3624 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (IX of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following further amendments shall 
be made in the Calcutta Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1951, 
the same having been previously published as required by the said sub -section , 
namely : 

In clause 36 of the said Scheme 
( 1) After sub -clause ( 2 ), the following clauses shall be inserted , namely : 

" (2A ) Where in a case reported to the Special Officer under sub - clause ( 2 ) he 
is of opinion that the act of indiscipline or misconduct is so serious that the worker 
should not be allowed to work any longer, the Special Officer may , pending 
investigation of the matter and the passing of orders thereon under sub - clause ( 2 ) . 
by order in writing delivered to the workers , suspend him 

(2B ) Where a worker has been suspended by an order under sub - clause (2A ) , 
he shall for the period of suspension be paid a subsistence allowance equivalent 
to the attendance wages provided in clause 24 , and such allowance shall not be 
recoverable or liable to forfeiture in any case whatsoever : 

Provided that where a worker is found not guilty, he shall be entitled to such 
payments as he would have received under clause 34, the period of suspension 
being treated as excused attendance for the purpose of that clause : 

Provided further that where subsistence allowance has been paid during a 
particular period , attendunce wages under clause 24 shall not be payable in 
respect of that period .” 

( ii ) In sub - clause ( 4 ), for the expression " sub - clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) " , the ex 
pression " sub - clauses ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and (2A ) " shall be substituted , 

[No. Fac. 74 ( 25 ). ] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Dy. Secy . 


PART 1 - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 

2751 

SZE = = = = 
New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3525 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( i) of sub - rule ( 2 ) 
of rule 21 of the Minimum Wages ( Central ) Rules, 1950 , the Central Government 
hereby specify the acts and ommissions in respect of which fines may be imposed 
as follows, namely : - - 
( 1 ) Absence from duty without leave without sufficient cause [ fine may be 

imposed only as an alternative to the deduction permissible under 

clause ( ii) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 21 ] . 
(2 ) Negligence in work or neglect of work . 
( 3 ) Smoking on the premises of the work place except in places where 

smoking is permitted . 
(4 ) Entering or leaving, or attempting to enter or leave , the premises 

except by the gate provided for the purpose . 
(5 ) Absence without leave or without sufficient cause from appointed 

work in the establishment. 
(6 ) Breach of any rules or instructions for the maintenance and running 

of any department and maintaining its cleanliness. 
( 7 ) Damage to work in process or to any other property of the empolyer . 
( 8 ) Interference with any safety devices installed in the primeses . 
( 9 ) Distributing or exhibiting inside the premises handbills, pamphlets or 

posters without the previous sanction of the employer. 
( 10 ) Misconduct (fine may be imposed only as an alternative to a heavier 
permissible punishment) . 

[No . LWI-68 ( 7 ) 54 . ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3520 . - - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 14 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby specifies 
the Commissioner for the Employees Provident Fund appointed under sub 
paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 19 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 , 
as the authority to issue the sanction referred to in the said sub - section for the 
State of Delhi in relation to a factory other than one engaged in a controlled 
industry or in an industry connected with a mine or an oilfield . 

[No. PF-43 (4 ) 54 - II.) 
New Delhi, the 30th November 1954 
8 . R . O . 3627 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Em 
ployees Provident Funds Act , 1952 , the Central Government hereby directs that 
The powers exercisable by it as the appropriate Government under sub - section 
( 3 ) *of section 14 of the said Act to specify the authority to issue the sanction 
referred to in the said sub - section shall also be exercisable within each of the 
States specified in the Schedule annexed hereto by the respective Government 
of each such State . 

SCHEDULE 


1 . Andhra . 
2 . Bihar . 
3 . Bombay. 
4 . Hyderabad . 
5 . Madras . 
6 . Mysore 
7. Madhya Pradesh , 
8 . Madhya Bharat. 
9 . Orissa . 
10. Patiala and East Punjab States Union . 
11 . Punjab . 


2752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 


[PART II- -Sec. 3 


12. Rajasthan . 
13 . Saurashtra . 
14 . Travancore -Cochin , 
15 . Uttar Pradesh . 
16 West Bengal. 

[No. PF.43 ( 4 ) / 54 .] 
S . R . O 3328 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that the powers exercisable by it as the appropriate Government under section 
14B of the said Act shall also be exercisable within each of the States specified 
in the Schedule annexed hereto by the respective Government of each such State . 

SCHEDULE 
1. Andhra. 
2 . Bihar . 
3 . Bombay . 
4 . Hyderabad . 
5 . Madras. 
6 . Mysore. 
7 . Madhya Pradesh . 
8 . Madhya Bharat. 
9 . Orissa . 
10 . Patiala and East Punjab States Union . 
11 . Punjab . 
12 . Rajasthan . 
13 . Saurashtra . 
14 . Travancore -Cochin , 
15 . Uttar Pradesh . 
16 . West Bengal. 

[ No. PF .43 ( 4 ) / 54 - 1. ] 
A NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S . R . O . 3529. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Lodna Colllery Co . ( 1920 ) Ltd ., Jharta , and their 
workmen in the Lodna group of collleries . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 6 OF 1954 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave, B .A .LL .B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
The employers in relation to the Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Limited , 
Jharia . 


AND 


Their workmen . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Sankar Banerjee , Counsel, and Shri D . Basu Thakur , Solicitor, 

M / s. Crr Digmam & Co . - For the employers . 
Shri P . D . Kamerkar, Vice President, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat; Shri 

B . R . Sharma; Vice President, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat Shri 


PART II — SEC. - 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2753 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


B . P . Sinha , Vice - President, Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Lodna 
Branch and Shri N . N . Sinha, Assistant Secretary, Bihar Colliary 
Mazdoor Sangh , Lodna Branch - For the workmen . 


AWARD 
By Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Order No . LR .2 ( 16 ) /54, dated 
20th April 1954, an industrial dispute existing between the employers in rela 
tion to the Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Limited , Jharia , and their work 
men in the Lodna Group of Collieries in respect of following matters was re 
ferred for adjudication to this Tribunal. The matters referred to were as 
under: 
( 1 ) Re - instatement of the workmen who were working before the 

strike in February 1954 and who reported for work on or after 

the 19th March 1954; 
( 2 ) Payment of wages or grant of any other relief to the workmen not 

allowed to resume work ; 
( 3 ) Re - instatement of the workmen who reported for work after the 

28th December 1953 , 
2. Notices were issued to the parties. The Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat, for 
and on behalf of the workers concerned in the dispute, Aled their written 
statement Exhibit 6 on 28th June 1954 . The Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 
Lodna Branch , also filed a written statement Exhibit 13 on behalf of the 
workmen on 13th August 1954 . The management s replies to these two written . 
statements were Aled at Exhibits 9 and 15 on 26th July 1954 and 24th August 
1954 respectively . 

3 . The matter was then fixed for hearing on 14th September 1954 . An 
objection was raised by the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat against the appearance 
of Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh and a similar objection was raised by the 
Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh against the appearance of the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat. The objection were heard and both the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh and the Koyala Mazdour Panchayat were allowed to appear on behalf 
of the workmen . 

4 . The case was then opened on behalf of the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat; 
but time was asked for submitting a detailed statement regarding the work 
man concerned in this dispute. Time was granted till the following day , on 
which day certain list of workmen were Aled by the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat . The management wanted time to check these lists . The Bihar 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh had also not Aled a list of workmen The matter was 
thereupon fixed for hearing on 15th November 1954 and in the meanwhile the 
parties were asked to file their statements and objections etc . 

5 . On 27th September 1954, while the Tribunal was holding its sittings at 
Bangalore , a memorandum of compromise Exhibit 26 entered into betvieen 
the parties was produced and was admitted by the representatives of the 
parties before the Tribunal. As the records and proceedings in the matter 
were lying at the Headquarters of the Tribunal, no orders were passed in the 
matter at Bangalore. The Tribunal returned to Headquarters on 11th October 
1954 , on which date thc Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat gave an application Exhibit 
27 requesting that the Tribunal should withheld its consent to the above 
agreement and should not pass an award in terms thereof. Though an attempt 
was made to hear the application immcdiately , it could not be done because 
of the inconvenience of one or the other parties . The matter was then ulti 
mately fixed for hearing on 17th November 1954 . On that date , after some 
discussion , the parties arrived at a settlement and produced a memorandum 
of settlement Exhibit 32, stating that the terms set forth therein should be 
treated as part of the settlement dated 18th September 1954 which had already 
been filed before the Tribunal and that an award in terms thereof should be 
passed . 

6 . There was a strike at the Lodna Colliery in November 1953. It appears 
that at the intervention of the Chief Labour Commissioner , some terms were 
agreed upon both by the management and the workers represented by the 
Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat. It also appears that the workmen agreed to 
resume work and the management agreed to allow these workmen who re 
ported for work upto 28th December 1953 to resume work . It further appears 
that several workmen reported for work before 28th December 1953 while 
some did not do so till that date , and that the management did not allow 


2754 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 [PART II - SEC, 9 

- - - 
workmen who came after 28th December 1953 to resume work . It then appears 
that there was again a strike at some pits of the colliery on 8th February 1954 
and that the strike extended to other pits on 19th February 1954 . The work 
men allege that they terminated the strike on the advice of the Chief Labour 
Commissioner and reported for work on and after 19th March 1954 but the 
management refused to allow them to resume work . The present reference 
deals with the cases of workmen who reported for work after 28th December 
1963 and also workmen who were working at the colliery before February 
1964 and who reported for work on and after 19th March 1954. Under the 
terms of the settlement, the management have agreed to take back all the 
genuine workers who were in the employment of the company on 14th 
November 1953 . The compromise then deals with the procedure in deciding 
as to who are genuine workers . The compromise algo lays down as to where 
the different workmen are to be employed and as to which of them would 11 
necessary be transferred . The workmen have on the other hand given up 
their claim for compensation and /or for wages . In my opinion, the compromise 
is fair and reasonable , 

I therefore pass an award in terms of the compromises dated 18th Sep 
tember 1954 and 17th November 1954 , copies of which are annexed herewith . 
The 18th November 1954 , 

1 ( Sd .) L . P . DAVE , Chairman . 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 


EXHIBIT 26 

Terms of Settlement 
1. The company will take back all genuine workers provided such workers 
were in the employment of the company on November 14 , 1953. All such 
workers shall register their claims with the Company within twenty -one days 
from the signing and Alling of this agreement before the Honourable Tribunal . 
The company shall decide the genuineness of each claim within a fortnight 
of its registration . The workers who claim to be reinstated shall have to be 
identified by another worker whose name appears in the company s list of 
workers entitled to provident fund and who is still in the employment of the 

company . In the event of a dispute as to identity of a worker or workers 
claiming to be reinstated , Mr, Cecil Evans will act as an Arbitrator and his 
decision will be final. The events that have taken place after November 14 , 1963, 
shall not constitute break in the service of the workmen so taken . 

2. As the battery No. 2 of the Coke Plant has been closed down due to 
damages caused to it the company will offer alternative jobs to the Coke Plant 
workers in the company s Collieries . Should however , battery No. 2 resume 
full production , these employees of the Coke Plant shall be offered their 
former jobs in the Coke Plant to the extent possible . If any vacancy arises 
in the Coke Plant, the workers of the Coke Plant shall get preference . The 
clerical staff and supervisory staff of the Coke Plant will get " Laid -off 
compensation or retrenched at the option of each as provided in the Indus 
trial Disputes Amendment Act. No alternative job can be given to them . 

3 . The genuine employees who wlll be taken back as stated above shall be 
given work in any of the company s mines but those amongst them who have 
worked in Lodna and Bagdigi colīlery for 720 days will have the right to have 
their cases specially considered for employment in Lodna and Bagdigi Mines . 
The worker who will be appointed will be provided as far as possible with 
the similar sort of employment which he was doing during the course of his 
employment. 

4 , Clauses 26 and 27 of the company s standing order should be read 
subject to paragraph 5 of Joshi Settlement dated 19th December 1953 which is 
# s follows: 
" Surplus workers , it any, in any mine may be transferred to any other 

mine of the company on the principle that junior most workers 
shall be selected first provided, however, if senior workers desire 
to be transferred they should be given the first option . Adequate 
notice shall be given to the workers who are to be so transferred . 
When the mine from which the workers have been transferred 
requires more workers of the particular category the transferred 
workers shall be given the first choice in order of the dates of 
their seniority in service . In case of such vacancy in such colliery 
the same shall be notifled in advance." 


PART II~ Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2755 


5 . Workers who are sentenced for a period of not more than six months 
will be entitled to apply for re - employment to Mr. Cecil Evans and his 
decision shall be final. Workers convicted under Section 144 of the Criminal 
Procedure Code and 9 B . M . P . shall not be required to approach Mr. Cecil 
Evans but shall be entitled to approach the company directly within twenty 
one days of their release . Those in jail as under - trial prisoners and acquitted 
subsequently shall approach the company directly within twenty one days of 
their release . 

6 . The company will decide whether the applicant is a genuine worker or 
not within a fortnight from the date when the claim is so registered . If the 
company takes longer time to come to a decision that the worker is genuine 
the worker will be deemed to have been appointed after the expiry of a fort 
night from the date when he registers his claim provided the worker is found 
genuine. 

7. That no employee who will be taken back shall get any compensation 
and /or wages on any account whatsoever . 

8 . It is agreed that the company will withdraw the proceedings commence 
ed by it under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act against the employees 
of Lodna Group of Collieries , Jharta . 

9 . It is agreed that the proceedings started by the workers against the 
company under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act will likewise be 
withdrawn by them forthwith and the parties agree that they will make such 
applications or execute such documents necessary for the purpose of the with 
drawal of the cases . 

10 . The dispute now pending before the Honourable Tribunal and with 
reference to which an order was made dated , the 20th April 1954 , by the Govern 
ment of India and covered by the Notification No. LR .2 ( 16 ) / 54 dated the 20th 
April 1954 is disposed of on the terms set forth above. 

For and on behalf of 
Lodna Coll ery Co. ( 1920 ) Ltd . 
Turner Morrison & Co , Ltd ., 

(sd ). S . BANERJI. 
By its constituted Attorney 

(Sd). Illegible. 

Managing Agents. 
(Sd ). B . P . SINHA , Vice -President, 
Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
(Sd ), BRAHMANAND , Secretary , 
Koyala Mazloor Paacniyat, Tharia . 
(Sd). P . D . KAMERKAR, Vice President, K . M .P . 

We admit the above compromise . (Sd). B . P . SINHA, 
Camp : Bangalore, 27th September 1954 . Vice - President, 

Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
(Sd ) BRAHMANAD LAL , Secretary, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat. 
(Sd ) D . BaşU THAKUR , Solicitor. 

Admitted by Shri Basu Thakur on behalf of the employers ) and by shri 
B . P . Sinha, and Shri Brahmanand Lal on behalf of the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh and Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat, respectively (Who have appeared 
on behalf of the workmen .) 
Camp : Bangalore , 

( Sd.) L . P . DAVE , Chairman . 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
The 27th September, 1954. 

EXHIBIT 32 

Reference No. 5 of 1954 
1 . ( 1 ) The workers who have been adjudged as genuine workers in accor 
dance with the terms of settlement dated 18th September 1954 will be informed 
through the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat. This will be done within seven 
days from today . The company for this purpose will send a list of all names 
to the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat. The Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat undertakes 
to serve the notices on the workers. The company will not be responsible in 
the event of non - service of notice on any individual. 


2756 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


[PART II- - Sec. ? 


1. ( 2 ) The workers who have been adjudged as genuine will report for 
duty within fourteen days from the date of the service of the notices on Koyala 
Mazdoor Panchayat. If any worker by reason of illness or other reasonable 
cause fails to report within the time specified above , he will apply to Mr. Cecil 
Evans within the time, i.e . fourteen days and Mr. Cecil Evans will decide on 
the merit of such application and his decision will be fnal. 

2. The workers who have been adjudged as non -genuine will be informed 
in the manner stated in para 1 above . 


3 . The Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat will file with Mr. Cecil Evans within 
three days from today , the names of the 100 (hundred ) workers who it la 
alleged have been turned back when they went to the company s office to 
report that they were genuine workers within the meaning of the settlement 
and their cases will be dealt with as if their applications have been filed in 
time. 


4 . The Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat will furnish to Mr. Cecil Evans within 
three days a list of names of persons who it is alleged have been forced to 
leave the dhowrahs in Lodna Colliery and Mr. Cecil Evans will decide and 
such decision will be final, 


5 . The terms set forth above will be treated as a part of settlement dated 
18th September 1954 which has already been Aled before this Tribunal and an 
award in terms of the said settlement together with this application should 
be passed . 


( Sd .) P . D . KAMERKAR . 


Dhanbad, 
Dated, 17th November, 1954 . 
(Sd .) S . BANERJI, 
Counsel for the company . 
( Sd.) D . BASU THAKUR , 
Solicitor for the Company. 
( Sd.) T . P . M . EVANS. 
( Sd.) CECIL EVANS. 


(Sd.) B . P . SINHA . 
(Sd .) S . K . SHARMA, 
( Sd .) BRAHMANAND LAL . 
(Sd .) I. H . KAAN . 

[No. LR . 2 ( 16 ) /54 . ) 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1954 
S . R .O . 3580.- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Sarva Shri Dharamu Naik and Saheb Naik , workmen 
of Dara Colllery . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No . 281 OF 1954 

( arising out of Reference No . 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave, B . A ., LL . B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Sri Dharamu Naik , and Sri Saheb Naik , Underground Mazdoors, C / O 

Secretary , Dara Colliery Labour Union , P . O . Dara Collicry , Dt. 
Dhenkanal, Orissa — Complainants 

VS. 
The Manager , M . & S . M . Rly . Talcher Colliery , P . O . Dara Colliery , Dt. 
Dhenkanal, Orissa - Opposite party . 

APPEARANCES 
No appearance on behalf of the complainants. 
No notice issued to the opposite party . 


- 


- 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4, 1954 2757 
= = - = - -- - - - 

- - 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The coinplainants alleged that the opposite party served a notice on them on 
21st April 1953 terminating their services without paying any compensation , gratuity 
or pay in lieu of notice . At that time, Reference No . 6 of 1952 was pending 
before this Tribunal and still the opposite party did not obtain any permission 
from the Tribunal before terminating the services of the complainants and thereby 
they committed a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. Hence 
the complaint. 


and that the without 
poe No . 


obtain ans and th 


3 . Notice was issued to the complainants to state as to why the complaint had 
been Aled so long after the termination of their services and to show why it 
should not be dismissed on the ground that it had been Aled after an unreason 
able delay. No reply has been sent to this notice nor have the complainants 
appeared and stated any reasons about the delay in filing the complaint etc . 


4. As I said above, the present complaint has been filed under Section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act on the ground that the opposite party contravened 
thc provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act by terminating the 
services of the complainants during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 
without obtaining the permission from this Tribunal. Section 33A does not pro 
vide in express terms the time during which a complaint under that section 
should be made; but it does not give a right to an aggrieved workman to make 
a complaint after an indefinite period . It is implicit in the section that the com 
plaint must be made within a rcasonable time of the act complained of. The 
true position would be that a complaint under this Section must be made as far 
as possible during the pendency of the proceedings and it it is made after such 
pendency , it should be made within a reasonable time. See the decision of the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case of General Motors ( India ) Ltd ., 1954, 
Vol. I, L . L . J . p . 676 . It is true that this was a case under Section 23 of the Indus 
trial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal ) Act, 1950 ; but that section is similar to 
Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act and the principles laid down in the 
above case should also be applicable to the present case , 


5 . In the present case , the services of the complainants were terminated on 
21st April 1953. The present complaint has been Aled on 5th October 1954 , l.e . 
more than seventeen months after the act complained of. The award in Refer 
ence No . 6 of 1952 was published in the Gazette of India on 10th October 1963 
and hence under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, the proceedings in that case terminated from 10th November 1953 . That 
would mean that the present complaint has been Aled almost eleven months 
after the proceedings had terminated. It is thus clear that it has been Aled after 
an unreasonable delay . No ground has been alleged about the delay . 


6 . In the circumstances , the complaint must be dismissed as having been filed 
after an unreasonable delay . I pass my award accordingly . 
The 19th November 1954 . 

(Sd.) L , P . DAVE, Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 


[ No . LR - 2 ( 365) / I. ) 


S . R . O . 3631. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Sabir Meah , Stone cutter, Kolimaran Pit, Kurhur 
baree Colliery, Giridih . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 65 OF 1954 

( arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the I. D . Act . 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave, B .A ., LL . B .-- Chairman . 


2758 _ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 4,1954 


2758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 

- - - = = = 


[PART II — SEC, 3 
= = = = = 


Paar 1-se.S 


- 


- = 


- 


PARTIES 
Sabir Meah , Stone Cutter, Kolimaran Pit, Kurhurbaree Colliery, Giridih , 

c / o Coal Workers Union , Barwadih , Giridih P . O ., Dt. Hazaribagh 
Complainant. 


Vs. 


1. Chief Mining Engineer , Railway Board , 1 , Council House Street, Calcutta , 
2 . Superintendent of Collieries, Giridih , Dt. Hazaribagh , Bihar - Opposite 

parties. 


APPEARANCES 
Shri Mahendra Nath Bharathi, General Secretary , Coal Workers Union , 

Giridih , Dt. Hazaribagh - For the complainant. 
Shri L . Singh , Welfare Officer , Office of the Superintendent of Collieries, 

Giridih P . O ., Dt. Hazaribagh - For the opposite parties, 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleged that the opposite parties changed the conditions 
of his service by making him rctirc at the age of 55 years compulsorily on 10th 
April 1953 during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 and thereby contra 
vened the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. He therefore 
urged that proper orders may be passed in the case . 


3 . The opposite parties contended that the complainant was appointed as " In 
place " worker ; that is , he was to be given work as and when there was temporary 
vacancy of workman of that category . His age was correctly ascertained and 
recorded to be 10th April 1898 and as he complcted 55 years of age on 10th April 
1953, he was made to retire. It was urged that the opposite partics had not 
violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and that the 
complaint had been filed after an inordinate delay and should be dismissed . 


4 . A preliminary objection was raised before me that the present complaint 
should be dismissed as it was filed after an unreasonable delay . In my opinion , 
this objection must be upheld . As I said above, this is a complaint under Section 
33A of the Industrial Disputes Act and has been made on the ground that the 
opposite parties had contravened the provisions of Section 33 by terminating the 
services of the complainant during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 with 
out obtaining the permission of the Tribunal. 


5 . Section 33A Jays down that if an employer commits a breach of Section 
33, the aggrieved employee may make a complaint in writing to the Tribunal. 
This section does not provide in express terms the time during which a complaint 
under that Section should be made; but it does not give a right to an aggrieved 
workman to make a complaint after an indefinite period . It is implicit in the 
section that the complaint must , be made within a reasonable time of the act 
complained of. The true position would be that a complaint under this Section 
must be made as far as possible during the pendency of the proceeding and it 
it is made after such pendency , it should be made within a reasonable time. See 
the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case of General Motorg 
( India ) Limited , 1954 , Vol. I, L . L . J ., p . 678 . It is true that this was a case under 
Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, but that 
section is similar to Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act and the principles 
laid down in the above case would also be applicable to the present case . 


6 . The award in Reference No. 6 of 1952 was published in the Gazette of India 
on 10th October 1953 and hence under Section 20 ( 3 ) read with Section 17A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , the proceedings in that case must be deemed to have 
come to an end from 10th November 1953 . The present complaint has been filed 
on 24th June 1954 , that is about 7 months after the proceedings in the above case 
came to an end . The complainant s services were terminated on 10th April 1953 . 
That would mean that the present complaint has been Aled nearly 15 months 
thereafter . On the face of it , the delay in Aling the present complaint is un 
reasonable . 


7 . At the time of arguments , Shri Bharathi who represented the complainant 
urged at first that a complaint had been filed on behalf of the present complainant 


PART II--- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 


2759 


- 


- 


- 


on this ground but it had been dismissed on a technical ground and that is why 
the present complaint was filed so late . When asked to give details about the 
first complaint ( as to when it was filed and when it was dismissed etc . ) , he 
admitted that no such complaint had been filed on behalf of the present com 
plaint. He then argued that somc correspondence was going on between the 
complainant and the opposite parties and that is why no complaint was flled 
earlier . When asked to produce copies of the correspondence , he said that there 
was no such correspondence but that the complainant had occasionally approach 
ed the officers of the opposite partics personally and that they had given him 
hopes about his reinstatement. There is nothing to support this allegation . No 
such allegation has been made in the complaint nor has the complainant gone 
in the witness box to support this allegation . I do not believe it. 


8 . The result is that the present complaint has been filed about 15 months 
after the termination of the complainant s services and 7 months after the pro 
ceedings in Reference No. 6 of 1952 came to an end. This delay is unreasonable 
and the complaint must be dismissed on this ground. 


9. On merits also , the complaint must fail . The complainant s services were 
terminated on the ground that he had completed 55 years of age . It has not been 
denied that he had completed 55 years of age on 10th April 1953 ; indirectly this 
has been admitted . All that was urged in this connection by Mr. Bharati was 
that there was no condition of scrvice under which the complainant could be 
made to retire on completion of 55 ycars of age. The complainant joined service 
in 1948 and was governed by Civil Service Rules , under which a person would 
have to retire from service on complction of the age of 55 years. Hence , if the 
complainant was made to retire on attaining this age , he could have no grievance , 
His retirement was proper and was according to the conditions of scrvice appll 
cable to him . On merits also , the complaint would fail. 


10 . I may mention here that it was urged on behalf of the opposite parties 
that the complainant was appointed what is called as " In place" worker , that is , 
on the understanding that he would be given work as and when there was a 
temporary vacancy . There is nothing to substantiate this allegation . On the 
other hand , the opposite parties havo maintained a servicc card for tne com 
plaint in which his date of appointment has been shown as 10th April 1948 . The 
opposite parties have also produced a lotter written by the colliery manager to 
the overman that from the service register of the complainant, it was found that 
he attained the age of 55 years on 10th April 1953 and hence it should be seen 
that his services were dispcnsed with positively from that date . These letters 
go to show that the complainant was not a casual worker but was a sort of 
permanent worker though he may be working in temporary posts . Further his 
services were terminated not on the ground that there was no work for him but 
on the ground that he had attained a particular age. If there was no condition 
of service under which the complainant could be made to retire on completion 
of particular age , he would be entitled to come before this Tribunal and urge 
that his service conditions were changed by his retirement, As I said above , 
there was a service condition under which the complainant would have to retire 
on completing the age of 55 years and as that has been done in this case , the 
complainant is not entitled to be reinstated . 


11. The result is that the complaint fails on merits and also on the ground 
that it has been filed after an unreasonable delay . It is therefore dismissed . 

I pass my award accordingly . 
The 16th November 1954 , 

(Sd .) L . P , DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 


[No. LR . 2 ( 365 ) / 54 / II.] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 24th November 1954 


S . R . O . 3832. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that the following amendments shall made in the Order of the Government of 


2760 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 4 , 1954 [PART II — SEC . 3 

- - 
India in the Ministry of Labour , No . S .R . O . 3177 , dated the 28th September , 1954 , 
namely :- - 


In the Schedule to the said Order : 
( i ) in item ( ii) the words “ having regard to the recommendations of the 

Board of Conciliation appointed in 1947 " shall be inserted at the 
end ; and 


( ii ) after Item No. (v ), the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( vi) From what date the award on the different issues should be given 

effect to " . 


[No. LR .2 (53) . ] 


P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1954 
S .R . O . 3533. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 
of 1954 ) , the Central Government is pleased to appoint the following persons 
as Settlement Officers for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
them by or under the said Act, with cffcct from the dates shown against each : - 

1. Shri K . G , Bhojwani, 15th November, 1954. 
2. Shri G . S . Chatrath , 15th November , 1954 . 
3 . Shri M . C . Kapoor , 15th November , 1954. 
4 . Shri H . R . Bhusarey , 15th November, 1954. 
5 . Shri H . T . Sadarangani, 17th November , 1954 . 


2 . The Central Government is also pleased to appoint the said Settlement 
Oncers to act as Additional Settlement Commissioners for the purposes of 
performing the functions assigned to them by or under the said Act, with effect 
from the same dates . 

[No. 2 (25 ) /SBII/ 54.) 
N . S . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVT , OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUOLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1954 


