AEGISTERED NO. V Zen 


mit 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


सत्यमेव जयते 
· PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 50 ) 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , DECEMBER 10 , 1960 /AGRAHAYANA 19 , 1882 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the Soth November, 1960 . 


No, and date 


logue 
No . 


Luued by 


Subject 


160, · No . 140- 1TC ( PN ) / 60 . daled 

November, 1960. 


26th 


161. 


No . 141 -ITC ( PN ) / 60 , dated 
November, 1960. 


29th 


Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import of tobacco from U . S. A , under the 

Agricultural Commodities Agreement 
between the U . S . A . and India , 
Inport Policy for Cotton Yarn of 80 

Counts and above during October 1900 – 

March 1961 period , 
Import policy for Cotton Fabrics during 

October 1960 – March 1961 period , 


No 112 -ITC (PN )/60, dated 29th 

November, 1960 . 
No. 143 - ITC (PN ) /60 , dated 29th 

November , 1960 . 


Inuport policy for certain items for Octo 

ber 1960 – March 1961 period last date 
fur submission of applications . 


169. 


No, 28 ( 1) - T .R . / 60 . 
November , 1960. 


dated 


Och 


Tarifſ Cominission s Report on the conti 
nuance of protection to the Plywood 
and Teachcsts Industry and Government s 
acceptance ctc. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be gupplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lues Delhi. Indetits should be submitted 

to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazette . 


CONTENTS 


PADA 


PAOις 


PART II - SECTION 4 . - Statutory Rules and Order 

notified by the Ministry of Defence . 


249 


263 


PART III - SECTION 1 ,- - Notifications issued by the 

Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission , Railway Administration , 
High Courts , and the Attached and Sub 
ordinate Offices of the Government of 
India (Published at Simla ) . . . 


1893 


755 


PART III - SECTION 2 . - -Notifications and Notices 

issued by the Patent Office , Calcutta 
( Published at Simla ) . . 


143 


355 


Part I . SECTION 1. - Notifications relating to Non 

Statutory Rules , Regulations and Orders 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defenco ) aad 

by the Supreme Court , , , 
PART I. - SECTION 2 . - - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions , Leave , etc . 
of Government Officers ingued by the 
Ministrica of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court . 
PART 1 . SECTION 3 . - Notifications relating to 

Non - Statutory Rules , Regulations, Or 
ders and Resolutions , issued by the 

Ministry of Defence , , , , 
PART 1. - SECTION 4 . - - Notifications regarding 

Appointments , Promotions, Leave , etc . 
of Officers , issued by the Ministry of 

Defenct . . 
Part II. — SECTION 1. - Acts, Ordinances and Regu 

laţions . . . . 
PART II . - - SECTION 2 . — Bills and Reports of Select 
Committee on Bills 

. 
Parr II. - SECTION 3 . - SUB -SECTION (i ) -- General 

Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye 
law . ctc. of a general character ) issued 
by the Ministrica of the Government of 
India (other than the Minjstry of Defence ) 
and by Central Authoritia ( other than 

the Administrations of Union Territoria ) 
PART 11 - SECTION 9 . - - SUB - SECTION ( ) . - Statutory 

Orders and notifications impued by the 
Ministria of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
by Central Authoritia (other than the 
Administration of Union Territoria ) . 


PART III - SECTION 3 . - Notifications inued by or 

under the authority of Chief Commis 
sioner ( Published at Simla ) . . 


323 


135 


Nil 


PART III - SECTION 4 . - -Miscellaneous Notifications 

including notifications , orders , advertise 
4 : 

ondan 
ments and notice foruddby Statutory 
Bodies (Published at Simla ) , , . 


NI 


575 


PART IV - Advertisements and Notices by Privato 

individual and Private bodia (Published 
at Sila ) . 


283 


1823 


SUPPLEMENT No. 48 
Births and deaths from principal discuss in towns 

with a population of 30 ,000 and over in 
India during week ending 12th Novem 
ber , 1960 . . . . . 


643 


3437 


( 263 ) 


264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 10 , 1960 AGRAHAYANA 19 , 1882 


(PART I - Sec . I 


PART 1 - Section 1 
Notiäcationg relating to Non - Statutory Rules, Regulations and Unders and Resolotions issued 
by tho Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 


RESOLUTION 


LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi, the 26th November 1960 
No . $ ( 1 ) / 60 /PAC . - Shri Rohan Lal Chaturvedi, a Member 
of Lok Sabha has been duly elected to serve as a Member of 
the Committee on Public Accounts in the causal vacancy 
caused by the death of Shri Feroze Gandhi, for the unexpired 
portion of the term ending on the 30th April , 1961 . 

V . SUBRAMANIAN , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 3rd December, 1960 


No. 9 / 49 / 60 - EI. – The Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting having considered a sugges 
llon that cash prizes awarded to the producers and directort 
of films winning the State Awards may be glven in the form 
of National Plan Savings Certificates and Treasury Savings 
Deposit Certificates and consulted the Filin Federation of India , 
have resolver to accept the suggestion , 


2 . Government have also resolved to broadbase the consti 
tution of the Central and Regional Committees of State 
Awards so as to ensure adequate represcntution of person : 
conversant with each language in which films are to be 
examined by these Committees 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture ) 

(I. C . A . R . ) 
New Delhi, the 29th November 1960 
No , 8 - 131 / 60 - Com , II . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by Clause $ (1) of the Resolution of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Agriculture No , F .45 - 11 /48- Com , dated 
the 21st May, 149 (as amended from timc to time), the Cen 
tral Government is pleayed to nominatc Shri V . Shankar, I. C . $., 
Special Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculturc ) and Vicc 
President, Indian Council of Agricultural Research , as Presi 
dent Indian Central Arecanut Committce with cffcct from the 
17th November, 1980 ( A . N . ) vice Dr. M . S . Randhawa, I. C .S ., 
reuigned . 

AJUDHIA PRASADA , Under Secy. 


9 . With a view to giving effect to the above resolutions , 
the Rules concerning the State Awards for ilms notified in 
the Resolution of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. 21 / 11 /59-FC ( FI), dated 
the 27th November, 1959 are hereby amended as follows, 
namely : 
( 1 ) The present rule 2 will be re-numbered as gub -rule : 

(1 ) and the following will be added as sub -rule (2 ), 
namely : 


- 


" 2 ( 2 ) Government may , at its discretion , give the cash 

prizes in the form of National Plan Savings Certificates 
and Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates ." 


(2 ) The following will be 

namely : 


substituced 


for 


rule 


17 , 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1960 
SUNJECT. - National Council for Rural Higher Educalion . 
No, F . 1- 1 / 60 , U -8 . - In partial modification of this Minis 
Iry s notification No . 1 ,3 - 187 / 59 - U -3 , dated 24th July, 1959 , on 
the subject mcntioned above , the following change in the com 
position of the National Council has been authorised . 

Under para (1), Shri B . N . Jha , Vice -Chancellor , Gorakhpur 
University will in futurc represent the Inter -University Board 
of India on the National Council for Rural Fulgher Education 
in place of Dr. V . S . Krishna . 
SUDJECT . - Standing Committee of the National Council for 

Rural Higher Education . 
No , F . 1- 1 / 80 , U - 9 , - In partial modification of this Minis 
try s Notification No. F . 2 - 4 / 59 , U - 9 , dated the 30th Septeinber , 
1959 on the subject mentioned above , the following change has 
been authorised : 

Shri B . N . jha , Vice - chancellor , Gorakhpur University will 
act as a member of the Standing Committee in place of 
Dr. V . S . Krishna , 

P , D . SHUKLA , Dy. Edcl. Adviser, 


" 17 . Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 12 and 

16 , Goverinent may co - opt on the Central or a 
Regional Committee, guch number of additional 
members as may , in its opinion , be considered neces . 
sary to ensure adequate availability of memben 

knowing cach language in which films are to be 
adjudged by such Committee, Further , nothing 
contained in rules 14 , 15 and 20 shall preclude co 
option of an additional member or inembers to 
assist the Documentary Committee , Educational 
Committee or the Special Committee constituted for 
the initial cxainination of children s film . The 
members so co -opted shall have all the rights of an 

ordinary member." 
(3 ) The following will be substituted for rule 22 

namely : 


" 22 . The quorum of the Central, Documentary , Edu 

cational, the Special Committee (if any ) , for Child 
ren s Films, or a Regional Committee , shall be halt 
the total number of members including the co -opted 
members ." 


ORDERED that the Resolution be published in the Garetto 
of India for general information . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 29th November 1960 
No . F . 19 - 25 / 60 - PH . - In the Resolution of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Health No, F . 19 . 12 / 58 -PH , dated 
the 25th April, 1960 , for the entry " Sluri V , K , B . Pillai, I. C . S., 
Secretary , Ministry of Health , New Delhi" the following entry 
shall be substituted natacly: 
* 3 . The Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 

of Health , ex -officio " . 


N . J . KAMATH , Dy . Sacy . 


PUBLIC NOTICE 


ORDER 


STATE AWARDS FOR FILMI 


New Delhi, the 3rd December , 1990 


SUBJECT. - Entries for State Awards for Films for 1980 


ORDERED that a copy of this Resolution he communicated 
to the Private and Military Secretaries to the President, Prime 
Minister s Secretariat, Cabinet Secretariat, Planning Commis 
vion , the Ministries of the Government of India . State Govern 
ments , Union Territories, Director , Indian Council of Medical 
Research , New Delli, Director , All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences , New Delhi, Members of the Committee , Shri V , K , B . 
Pillai, A . G .CR ., New Delhi, A .G . Madras, A .G , Maharashtra 
and the Manager, Government of India Press , New Delhi. 

ORDERFT) also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general Information , 

B . R . FANDAN , Secy . 


No, 8 /64 / 60 - FI . - In pursuance of rule 8 of the Rular on 
cerning State Awards for Filmg notified in the Resolution of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. 21 / 11 / 59 - FC (FI) , dated the 27th November, 
1989 , entries for the Statc Awards for Filmy are hereby invited 
in respect of Indian films certified for public exhibition during 
the calendar year 1960 and filmstrips produced during tho 
same year. The entry in respect of a film or filmstrip may 


PART 3 - Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 10 , 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 19, 1882 


265 


21 


be made by its producer or any other person duly authorised 
by him in this behalf, up to January 7 , 1961, free of charge . 
The entry will be made in duplicate in the Form prescribed 
in the Schedule annexed to the Rules referred to above . 


2 . Entries in respect of the various categories of films should 
be addrewed to the authorities indicated below : 


C .P . W . D . into utiskilled , seini-skilled , skilled and highly skilled 
and supervisory Categories and advice the Government on the 
measures to be taken to remove the existing anomalies , if any, 
with regard to classificution of posts , individuals or groups of 
individuals . 

2 . The Committee will be known as the Categorisation 
(Removal of Anomalics) Coinmittee of the workcharged atab 
lishment of the C . P . W . D . and will consist of the following 
Offer : 


( a ) Regional Officer, Cen 

tral Board of Film 
Censors , 91 , Walke 
shwar Road , Bombay - 6 . 


( i) Feature films in Hindi 

( including Urdu and 
Hinduştani) , Gujarati, 
Marathi, Punjabi, 

Sindhi and English . 
( ii ) Documentary Alms in 

all languages . 
( iii) Children s films in all 

languages. 
(iv ) Educational films in 

16 mm in all languages . 
( v ) Filmstrips in 35 mm . 
Feature films in Bengali, 
Oriya and Asga mesc . 


CA 


( b ) Regional Officer , Cen 

tral Board of . Film 
Censors , All India 
Radio Building , Eden 

Gardens , Calcutta - l . 
( © ) Regional Officer, Cen 

tral Board of Film 
Censors , 53 , Sir Mo 
hammod Usman Roud , 
T Nagar, Madras - 17 . 


Feature film in 
Telgu , Kannada 
Malayalam 


Tamil , 

and 


3 . An entrant will be required to submit at his cost to such 
Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censors or to 
any other authority as may be specified , a print of the Alm or 
The filmstrip and such number of copies of the synopsis and 
songs logether with an English rendering thereof ay may 
be specified in this behalf. The entrant of a filma selected for 
viewing by the Central Committec will submit at his cost the 
ipecited number of copies of the detailed dialoguc script in 
English or Hindi 48 well as the publicity material relating 
chcrcto in addition to the print and synopsis of the film , 


Chairman 
Shri P , K , Sen , Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Works, 
Housing & Supply . 

Members 
(1 ) Shri V . K . Subrannanian , Under Secretary, Miniatry of 

Finance . 
(2) Shri A , B . Sen , $. E , ( Elec .). C . P . W . D , 
(3) Shri S. K . Rana, Assistant Chief Engineer , P . & T . 

Department 
(4 ) A representative of thc Ministry of Defence. 
A whole- timc Secretary to the Committee will be appointed 
* purately . 

3. Terms of Reference : 
The terms of reference of the Committee will be ! 
( 1) To categorisc posts in the workcharged establishmcat 

of the C . P . W . D . u unskilled , semi-skilled , killed and 

bigbly skilled and supervisory , 
( 2 ) To examine and suggest remedies to remove existing 

2nonelles , if any, in regard to clessification of posti , 

groups as well as individuals , 
( ) To rationalise posts to avoid duplication , overlapping 

of functions and effect consequential modification , in 

the recruitincnt rules, trade tests , yardsticks, etc , 
4 . The Committcc will complete its work and submit its 
report to the Government within 1 months from the date of 
its formation . 

5 . The decisions taken on the basis of the Committee s 
recommendations will not have retrospective effect and will be 
given effect to only from a prospective date . 

6. The Committce will be free to lay down the method of 
its working and other procedural matters. 

7 . The Chief Engineer, C .P .W . D . and other C .P . W . D . Officers 
in the various Circlas , Divisions and Sub -divisions shall give 
their full cooperation to the Committee and 29sist thelr work 
by furnishing all information required by them . 


4 , Government of India have decided in pursuance or rule 
6 of the Rules concerning the State Awards for Films that the 
length of a children s film shall not exceed 2 ,500 metres in 
35 mm and 1,000 metres in 16 mm for the purpose of entry 
for the Awards , 

S. PADMANABHAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS , HOUSING AND SUPPLY 


RESOLUTION 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1960 
SUNJECT -- Workcharged Establishment , C . P . W . D . - Constitucion 

of Categorisation and Removal of Anomalios 

Committee. 
No, 8 ( ) / 60 /WCE . - The Government of India have decided 
to appoint a Committee to examine the quçstion of classi 
fiation of posts in the workcharged establishment of the 


( 1 ) Ordered that the Resolution be communicated to all 

Ministries of thie Government of India . 
( 2 ) Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 

Gazette of India . 


T . SIVASANKAR , Sey. 


