-- 


- 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 15 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , APRIL 14 , 1956 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gasettes of India Betraordnary werc published upto the 7th 
April 1956 : 


Igņue 
No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


93 

S.R .O . 767 , dated the 31st Ministry of Law . . | Nomination of four members to 
March 1956 . 

the Council of States. 
94 ) S . R . O , 768 , dated the 

Do. 

Declarations containing the namce 
31st March 1956 . 

of candidates elected to fill the 

seats in the Council of States . 
94A S . R . O . 768A , dated the Ministry of Commerce Freight (Place Extras) List No. I 
31stMarch 1956 , I and Industry . 

of 1956 . 
95 S . R . O . 769 , dated the 

Ditto 

Fixation of the price of tea for 
Ist April 1956 . 

the purpose of the Item 5 in 
the Second Schedule to the 

Indian Tariff Act , 1934 . 
S. R .O . 770 , dated the 1st Ministry of Production . Amendment made in the noti 
April 1956 . 

fication No. 4 - CI( 2 ) 51, dated 

the 26th August 1952 . 
96 S .R . O . 771, dated the 1st Ministry of Finance . The fee for registration of an 
April 1956 . 

( Company Law Ad - j association shall bo fifty rupees , 
ministration ) 


97 | S . R . O . 772 , dated the 2nd Ministry of Finance 
April 1956 . 

(Revenue Division ) . 


Declaration of reciprocating coun 

try for the purposes of the 
Estate Duty Act , 1953. 


98 


S .R . O . 773 , dated the 3rd 

April 1956 . 


Ministry of Law 


Names of Members elected and 

nominated to the Council of 
States. 


99 


S . R .O . 774 . dated the 3rd 

April 1956 . 


Election Commission , Amendment made in the noti 
India . 

fication No. 62 /2 /SI - Elec. II (3 ) , 

dated 6th November, 1951. 
Ditto 

Election Petition No. 31 of 1954 , 


S . R . O . 775 , dated the 

14th March 1956 . 
101 | S.R .O . 776 , dated the 4th 

April 1956. 


Ditto 


To elect a person in the seats 

allotted to the State of Uttar 
Pradesh in the Council of 
States . 


( 521 ) 


mg 


14 , 


Du 


tu 


= 


1. 


- 


- 


No, and date 


189Uc 
No, 


Issued by 


Subject 


S . R . O . 777 , dated the 4th 

April 1956 . 


Election Commission , 

India , 


Appointment of dates for election 

to the Council of States to fill 
& vacancy in the seats allotted 
to the State of Uttar Pradesh . 


S . R . O . 778 , dated the 4th 

April 1956 . 


Ditto 


Designation of Returning Officer 

for election to the Council of 
States to fill a Vacancy in the 
beats allotted to the State of 
Uttar Pradesh . 


S .R . O . 779 , dated the 4th 

April 1956 . 


Ditio 


Appointment of an assistant to 

the Returning Officer for elec 
tion to the Council of States to fill 
a vacancy in the seals allotted 
to the State of Uttar Pradesh . 


102 | S . R . O . 823 , dated the 6th Ministry of Food and The powers to make orders in 
April 1956 . 

Agriculture , 

relation to the stocks of foodstuffs 
including edible oils in the 
State of Uttar Pradesh be also 
exercisable by the Govern 

mcnt of Uttar Pradesh , 
103 S. R .O . 824 , dated the 5th Ministry of Informa- Certification of a film to be of the 
April 1956 . 

tion and Broadcasting description specified therein , 
104 S. R . O . 825 , dated the 7th | Ministry of Commu- | No aircraft shall make any flight 
April 1956 . 

nications, 

within ten miles from the 
boundary of any of the Portu 

guese possess ong in India , 
IOS S . R . O . 826 , dated the 7th Ministry of Works , The powers to make orders in 
April 1956 . 

Housing and Supply, relation to kerosene oil be also 

exercisable by the Government 
of Uttar Pradesh , 


S . R . O . 827 , dated the 7th 

April 1956 . 


Ministry of Food and | The powers to make orders in 
Agriculture , 

relation to the stocks of food 
stuffs including cdible oils 
be also exercisable by the Go 
vernment of Uttar Pradesh . 


Copies of the Gagettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi , Indents should be submittedso as to rcach thc Managco 
within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


PART II - Section 3 


Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
New Delhi, the 9th April 1950 


S . R . O . 838, - Contracts /Am ( 4 ) ] , - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( 1 ) of article 299 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that 
the following further amendments shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Law , No . S . R . O . 3442, dated the 2nd 


PART II – ŠEC. 3) 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1 . 38 


523 


November, 1955 relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property ; 
namely : 

In Part VIII of the said notification which relates to the Ministry of Finance 
(Defence ), after item 4 , the following item shall be added , namely : 
" 5 . Instruments relating to the re - assignment of insurance policies assigned 

to the Governor -General before the 26th January , 1950 and to the 
President on or after that date in accordance with the rules regulat 
ing the Gencral Provident Fund (Defence Services ), the Defence 
Services Officers Provident Fund , the Indian Ordinance Department 
Provident Fund and the M . E . S . Contributory Provident Fund ; by the 
Accounts Officer of the Fund , as defined in the rules of the respective 
Funds." 

[NO. F . 25 (4 ) / 55 - G .) 
V . S . JETLEY, Dy. Sexy , 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 2 , the 4th April 1956 


S . R . O . 839. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedulo I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
13 pleased to specify Her Highness Maharani Saheba of Wankaner Shri 
Ramakunverba, consort of the Ruler of Wankaner , for purposes of this Entry . 

[No. 18 / 11 /56 - Police .IV . 1 


New Delhi- 2 , the 14th April 1956 


S . R . O . 840. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act 1878 ( XI of 1878 ) , and all other powers enabling it in that behalf , tha 
Central Government hereby directs that every notification issued or decmed to 
be issued under the said section exempting Yuvraj Ambiheshwar Sharan Singh 
Deo of Surguja from the operation of any prohibition or direction contained 
in the sald Act shall 

( a ) if the notification relates exclusively to him stand cancelled ; 
( b ) it the notifcation relates to a class of persons, which includes the said 
Derson , cease to extend to him . 

(No . 16 / 8 / 56 -Police .IV . ] 
C . P . S . MENON , Under Secy . 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi - 2, the 5th April 1956 
S . R . O . 841. — In paragraph 3 of the Resolution of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. F .4 / 5 / 55 - Poll. III, dated the 14th March , 1956 
It was stated that the Dholpur Succession Enquiry Committee shall assemble at 
Jaipur and hold the enquiry . Dimrulties have , however been experienced in 
finding adequate accommodation for the Committee and its members at jaipur , 
The Government of India have, therefore, decided that the Committee may sit 
and hold the enquiry either at Jaipur or any other place which may be con 
venient to the Chairman and Members of the Committee . Accordingly the 
followig shall be substituted for paragraph 3 , of the Resolution referred to above :-- - 
" 3. The Committee shall assemble at Jaipur or at any other place which 

the Chairman may flx and hold the enquiry and submit its report 
10 the Government of India as eariy as possible ." 

[No. F .4 / 5 / 55 - Pol).III.] 
V . VISWANATHAN , Jt. Secy . 


A , 


14 , 1958 


[ PART II - SEC, 8 


-- 


- 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1956 
S . R . O . 842 . — The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Pilgrim Ships Rules, 1933 , which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 213 of the Indian Merchant Shipping 
Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , is hereby published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
the said section , for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby ; and 
notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after the 15th day of April, 1956 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
1. For form V appended to the said rules the following form shall be substi 
tuted, namely : 

( FORM V ) 
( See Rule 124 ) 
Pilgrim Pass 

for 
Pilgrims proceeding to the Hejaz from ports in the States of India . 

Emblem of India 
Name 

Bombay . 

Calcutta . 
Port of Embarkation 

Page 2 
INDIAN 
FOREIGN (Resident/Non -Resident) 

( b ) This Pilgrim Pass issued by the authority of the President of India , 
requests and requires all those whom it may concern to afford the person 
mentioned herein going on Hay all needed assistance and protection . 

( c ) This Pilgrim Pass has been issued to enable the holder to travel by 
Pllgrim Ship . 
This Pass is valld for single journey from India to Hejaz during the year 

Land for return within one year of the date of departure from India . 
N . B . The Pass is not valid for travel to any country other than Saudi Arabia . 

By order of the President of India 
Foreign Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry 

of External Affairs . 
Issued at - - - Signature of issuing officer 

on - 

Designa . 
tion of issuing officer 

Registered at Bombay 

Calcutta , 


( 9 


On 


Signature 


Executive Officer, 
Port Haj Committee . 


( a ) Strike out the words which are not applicable. 
(b ) for Indians only . 
(c ) For Foreigners. 


PART IL- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1966 


525 


Page 3 


Pilgrim Pass No. 


Photograph of the holder * 


Signature or thumb impression 
of the holder . 
Distinctive marks of the 
holder) if any , by which the 
holder can be identificd . 


* Not necessary in the case of a woman who objects to being photographed . 

Page 4 
Particulars of the holder. 


Name 
* Father s name 
Nationality 
Sex and age 
Occupation 
Full postal address 
Village 
Post Office 
District 
Ştate 
(All the particulars required above should be correctly filled in ) . 

* If the holder be a married ( female ) or a widow , the name and father s 
name of her husband or deceased husband should be given and the words " Wife 
of” or “ Widow of" , as the case may be, should be prefixed . 


Page 5 


Name father s name and nationallty of pilgrims , 
if any, whom holder is accompanying on 
the Haj* * * 


Name, father s name and full address of holder s 
nominee or legal representative (See Rulc 140 ) 


Particulars regarding provision , if any, made for 
the holder s voyage to India . If not , reasons for 
exemption (See Rules 126 , 127 and 131 ) 


Class and Serial number of ticket for outward 
voyage ( Sec Rulo 131) 


Name of ship by which outward voyage is to 
be performed (See Rule 131 ) 


* * * These particulars should be Alled in when the holder is a child under 18 
years or a female . 


Page 6 
Particulars of children accompanying the holder 
Age 

Relationship with holder 


Name 


Sex 


526 


THI GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1056 


[PART II - SLC. 


Page 7 
Particulars concerning anti- cholera inoculation and anti- small- pox vaccina 
tion certificates * , 

( To be Alled in , if possible , at the time of the issue of the pilgrim - pass , 
otherwise at the time of registration at the port of embarkation ) . 


Inoculation 
Certificate 


Vaccination 
Certificate 


Place of issue 


Date of issue 


Name and designation of the person 
who issued the certificate 


Name and designation of the person if any , 
who countersigned the certificate 


On 


* The certificates of inoculation and vaccination obtained from a district must 
be produced in original at the port of embarkation for inspection by the Port 
Health Officer , failing which the pilgrim will be liable to re - immunisation . 

Page 8 

DEPOSIT -PAID RECEIPT 
Pllgrim Pass No. 
Issued at 

- - - - 19 
The bearer of this receipt -- - 

- - son of 

- of district 
- State - - 

--has deposited the sum of Rupees 
- (Rs. - 

- ) to defray the cost of the return voyage from 
Jedda to 

Signed 

Designation of Receiving Oncer — 
( Endorsement by the Indian Mission , Jedda ) . 
The above- named pilgrim has returned to India per 8. 8. - 

This 
receipt is transferred to the Executive Officer, Port Haj Committee , Bombay for 
adjustment. 

Signed 
Representative of Government of 

India at Jedda . 


Page 9 
Particulars regarding final disposal of holder s deposit 
( a ) When deposit is refunded . 

[See Rules 138 ( 4 ), 139 (2 ), 141 ( 2) , 142 ( 2 ) and 146 ). 
Name of person receiving refund — 
Date of refund 
Reasons for making refund 
Designation of officer making the refund 

( b ) When deposit is made to defray the cost of return passage ( See Rules 

136 ( 4 ) ]. 
Name of person to whom payment is made 
Date of payment 
Designation of officer making the payment 

( c ) When unclaimed deposit is credited to Haj Fund ( See Rules 148 ( 2 ) ]. 
Date of credit to Haj Fund - - 


PART 11 - MEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1900 


527 


Page 10 
(For the use of the Indian Mission , Jedda ) . 
Registration No. 

Received for safe custody return ticket or deposit paid receipt of the 
holder of this pass . 
Indian Mission , Jedda . 
Date 

Signed 
Representative of Government of 

India at Jedda. 
Rotation No. 

The holder of this pass has this day notified his desire to return to India . 
Return ticket or deposit - paid receipt sent to the local Shipping Agents for a 
return passage . 

Good for return journey to India . 

Indian Mission , Jedda. 
Dated 

- 19 . 

Signed 
Representative of Government of 

India at Jedda . 


Page 11 
Blank , for Saudi Arabian Visa . 


Page 12 
Blank , for Saudi Arabian Visa, 


Page 13 

INSTRUCTIONS TO PILGRIMS 
(i ) This pilgrim -pass is not transferable and is liable to confiscation if found 
In the possession of any person other than the rightful owner . 

( ii) Every Pllgrim is required to present his or her pass for registration to 
the Executive Officer of the Port Haf Committee of the port of embarkation in 
India . 

( iii) Every pilgrim is required , on landing at Jedda , to get his or her pass 
registered at the Indian Mission , Jedda . He is also advised to dellver to the 
Indian Mission his or her return ticket, if any, or deposit- paid receipt, for safe 
custody. 

( iv ) Pilgrims are warned that if they do not deposit their return tickets , etc ., 
at the Indian Mission , Jedda, they will run the risk of loss if the tickets are kept 
by them throughout during the Haj and will also lose the benefit of the Rotation 
System by which return -passage is determined on the occasion of their 
homeward - journey thereby incurring unnecessary expenses during their stay in 
the Hejaz . 

( v ) Pilgrims are advised to report to the Indian Mission at Jedda any diffi 
culty they may experience during their stay in the Hejaz . 

( vi) The officials of the Indian Mission are always accessible to pilgrims and 
ready to help and assist them in their difficulties in the Hejaz. 

(vii) Free medicine and free consultation are available for Indian pilgrims 
at the Government of India dispensaries at Mecca , Jedda and Muna . Pligrims in 
need are advised to avail themselves of these facilities. The Indian Medical 
Omcer charges five rupees for a visit to the patient s lodging. Medicine is 
supplied free . Indigent pilgrims who are too ill to attend at the Indian dispen 
saries personally are attended to free in their quarters , 


528 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


[ PART 11 - Sec . 3 


( vuli) Pligrims are warned in their own interests not to appoint any executor 
against the event of their death in the Hejaz to deal with their estates. Such 
appointments only involve the estate in unnecessary expenditure without 
corresponding advantage. The general procedure of dealing with the effects of 
those who die is that the local government collect them on the death of a pilgrim 
and eventually hand them over to the Indian Mission at Jedda which forwards 
them to the authorities concerned at the ports of embarkation in India for 
disposal. 

( ix ) Pilgrims are warned that their return tickets are not transferable and 
are liable to confiscation if found in the possession of any unauthorised person , 

1. For sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 124 , the following sub -rule shall be substituted , 
namely : 
2 . " A fee of eight rupees shall be charged for the registration of pilgrim 

pass at the port of embarkation and the proceeds from the fee shall 
be credited to the Haj Fund and / or to any other Fund at the dis 
posal of the Port Haj Committee in such proportion or proportions 
as the Central Government may direct from time to time." 

[No. F .32 (39 ) AWT /55. ] 


New Delhi, the 2nd April, 1958 
S . R .O . 843.-- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the system 
of booking accommodation in pilgrim ships for Haj pilgrims specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto should be enforced during the Haj Season in 1956 ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 289C of the 
Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government 
hereby exempts Messrs Mogul Line, Bombay and every other shipping company 
engaged in pilgrim traffic from Bombay to the Hejaz , from such provisions of 
the said Act and the Indian Pilgrim Ships Rules 1933, as are not in confirmity 
with the aforesaid system of booking accommodation in pilgrim ships carrying 
pilgrims from Bombay to Jedda during the year 1956 . 

THE SCHEDULE 
System of Booking Accommodation at Bombay for Haj Pilgrims 
1. Schedule of sailings. - -Every Shipping Company shall announce a provision 
al schedule of outward sailings 3 to 4 months in advance . Firm dates of sailings 
shall be advertised by the Shipping Company at least 15 days in advance as 
required under the provisions of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923. The 
penal provisions of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 shall operate with 
reference to the firm sailing dates as advertised . 

2 . Advance reservations of passages , - ( i ) Reservation lists for all sailings 
announced in the provisional schedule shall be opened by the Company simul 
taneously and intending pilgrims will have the option of availing passages in 
whatever ship they like. Such reservations shall be made only on payment of a 
deposit of Rs. 100 / - per adult and Rs. 50 / - per child accompanied by applicant s 
full particulars . When reservations of a particular ship are complete , the ship 
ping company shall refuse to accept any further deposits for that particular ship . 

( ii ) A cabin class pilgrim may make an application for reservation of a deck 
passage for his servant, and may in genuine cases take any other servant than 
the one mentioned in the application . 

3 . Registration on waiting lists . Persons whose deposits for advance reserya 
tion are received after the reservation of accommodation on all the ships is 
complete shall be kept on the Common Waiting lists with the shipping company. 
Persons who may not have made any advance reservation of passages but who 
may reach Bombay and ask for passages , shall also have to get their names 
registered on waiting lists with the shipping company. Registration of such 
persons on the waiting lists will be made on an application for registration on 
waiting lists accompanied by a deposit of Rs. 10 per passenger and a copy of the 
photograph of the person concerned . Registration on waiting lists shal] be made 
strictly in order of the receipt of deposits aforesaid by the shipping company . 

4 , Purchase of tickets. - All persons who may have made advance reservations 
of passages shall have to purchase their tickets at least 3 days before the sailing 
date . Such of the persons as fall to purchase tickets 3 days in advance shall be 


PART II - SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1056 


529 


deemed to be not travelling in those ships. Passages not previously booked in 
particular ships or released by passengers who do not purchase their tickets 3 
days in advance shall be offered according to the order referred to in paragraph 3 
to the persons whose names are registered on the waiting lists , 


5 . Treatment of deposits when passages are availed of . The deposit of 
Rs. 100 / - or Rs. 50 / - or Rs. 10 / -, as the case may be, shall be accounted towards 
the cost of passage when the passage has been availed of. 


6 . Treatment of the deposit when the passage is not availed of. - When a person 
has reserved his passage and does not wish to avail of the same and gives 
10 clear days notice to the company in advance of the sailing date then his 
deposit shall be refunded in full. 


( ii) In the case of a person who has reserved his passage but is prevented 
from availing of the same due to unforeseen circunstances , e . g . death in the family 
etc . the deposit may be refunded to him in full; any dispute that may arise shall 
be referred in the first instance to the Chairman , Port Haj Committee, Bombay , 
and if the Chairman s decision is not acceptable to the pilgrim concerned or to 
the shipping company, the Chairman shall refer the matter to the Presidency 
Magistrate or the Magistrate of the first class exercising jurisdiction in the Port , 
The decision of the Magistrate shall be final and there shall be refunded to the 
pilgrim any amount allowed to him by such decision . 

( iii ) A person who has reserved his passage by a particular ship but is unable 
to avail of the same and desires to travel by a subsequent ship , may be given 
full credit in respect of his deposit towards the cost of passage . 


( iv ) In all other cases where a person has reserved his passage but does not 
avail of the game, a deduction of 10 % will be made while refunding the amount 
deposited by him . 


( v ) Where a person has got his name registered on the waiting list and does 
not avail of the passage when offered, a sum of Rs. 10 / - shall be forfeited from 
his deposit and the balance, if any, shall be refunded to him by the shipping 
company. 


( vi) When a person who has got his name registered on the waiting list and 
is not offered any passage, the amount paid by him as deposit, shall be refunded 
to him in full. 


7 . Scrutiny . The records of the shipping company in respect of reservation 
of passages as well as waiting lists shall be open to scrutiny by the Central 
Government, Chairman of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay Executive Oncer , 
Port Haj Committee, Bombay or 2 members of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay 
nominated by the Chairman , or any officer or officers, nominated by the Com 
mittee for this purpose . 

(No. 32 (20 ) -WANA / 56 . ) 
MOHD . YUNUS, Dy. Secy , 


- ~ 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


EŞTATE DUTY 


New Delhi, the 4th April 1956 


S . R . O . 844. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Estate Duty 
Rules , 1953 , which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 85 of the Estate Duty Act , 
1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , is published as required by the said sub - section , for the inform 
ation of all persons likely to be all ected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that 
tho said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th May, 1958 , 


2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be reccived from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
said Board , 


* S .R .O . 556 of 1954 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


( PART II — S & C. 3 


530 


Draft Amendment 
In sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 18 of the said Rules, after clause ( d ), the following 
clause shall be inserted , namely - 
" ( e ) by adjustment of any refund of income-tax, excess profits tax, busi 

ness profits tax or excess profits tax deposits " . 


EXPLANATORY NOTE 


[ This note is not part of the amendment but is intended to indicate its general 
purport. ] 

Under Section 51 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 , rules 18 and 19 have been framed 
which lay down the method of payment of duty and deposits in respect of duty . 
Rule 18 provides that payment may be made by cash , cheque or bank draft. The 
object of the present amendment is to add a new clause to rule 18 in order to 
facilitate payment of estate duty by adjustment of any refund of income- tax , 
excess profits tax , business profits tax and excess profits tax deposits . 

[No. 22 / F .No .1 / 6 / 56 - E .D . ] 

R . K . DAS , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

(Indian Standards Institution ) 

Delhi, the 2nd April 1956 
S . R . O . 845 – In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards In 
stitution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that one licence , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hercto , annexed , has been granted 
authorizing the licensee to usc thc Standard Mark . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Si. Licence No. Period of Validity Name and Add - Article (s )/Process 
No. and date 

- ress of Licensee covered by the 
From To 

liccпсо 


Relevant Indian 

Standard . 


I CM /L - 8 

29 -31- 956 


16 -4 - 56 15 - 4 -57 The Aluminium Wrought Alumi- IS :737- 1955 Specl 

Corporation of nium and Alu - fication for Wro 
India , Ltd ., minium Alloys, ught Aluminium 
7 , Council House Sheet and Strip and Aluminium 
Street, Calcutta. Grade Sic Alloys, Sheet and 

Strip (For General 
Engineering 

Purposes ) 
- - - - - - - - - - 

D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director (Marks), 
Indian Standards Institution . 

[No. MDC / 12 (26 ). ] 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Delhi, the 3rd April 1956 
S . R . O . 846 — In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in the Schedulc hercto 
pnexe d , have been established during the period 16th to 31st March 1956 . 


PART II-- IC. 3 ] 


OTT 


1. 331 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No. 


Brief Particulars 


No . and title of the Indian No , and title of the 
Standards established 

Indian Standard or 
Standards, if any, 
Şuperseded by the 
new Indian Ştan 

dard 
( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


I IS : 310 (Part II) - 1954 Me 

thods of Sampling and 
Test for Lubricants -Part 


II 


This standard prescribes the methods 

of test for greases , covering test 
procedures for determining evapora 
tion loss , consistency , corrosion , 
free alkali , free acid , drop point, 
fillers, mineral oil content, water 
content, flash point (Abel) 
and heat stability . (Price Rs. 4 /- ). 


2 


IS :534- 1955 Specification 
for Benzene, Ordinary . 


This standard prescribes the re 
quirements and methods of test for 
ordinary benzene used as a chemical 
and as solvent. (Price Re. 1 /- ). 


3 


IS : 535- 1955 Specification 
for Benzenc, Pure, Nitra 
tion Grade , 


4 


IS : 598- 1955 Specification 
for Mercerized Cotton 
Fabric , Grade 2 , for Air 
craft. 


$ 


IS : 761- 1955 Specification 
for Ginger Oil. 


This standard prescribes the re 
quirements and methods of test for 
pure , nitration grade benzene. (Price 
Rs, 1/ 8 / -). 
This standard prescribes construc 
tional details and other particulars 
of mercerized cotton fabric intended 
for use as a covering on aeroplanes 
with wing loadings of 9 lbs per eq . 
ft, or less and placard never - exceed 
speeds of 160 mph or legs. ( Price 
Rs. 1 / 8 /-) . 
This standard prescribes the require 
ments and methods of test for ginger 
oil used as a flavouring agent in 
aerated waters and in confectionery . 
(Price Re. I /-). 
This standard lays down canong for 
making abstracts for abstracting 
periodicals for both classified and 
dictionary form and also for ad hoc 
abstracts. (Price Re. I /- ), 
This standard prescribes the require 
ments and methods of test for 

common salt suitable for use in 
chemical industry . (Price Re. I /- ) . 


6 


IS : 795 - 1956 Canong for 
Making Abstracts 


7 


I $ :797 - 1955 Specification 
for Common Salt for Che 
mical Industries . 


Copies of all these standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution , 19 
University Road , Delhi-8 . 


D . V . KARMARKAR, 
Deputy Director (Marks), 
Indian Standards Institution , 


[No. MDC /11(4)] . 
Ş . A . TECKCHANDANI, Dy. Sccy , 


$ 32 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14, 1956 


(PART II - Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1956 
S . R . O . 847 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( d ) of section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby re - nominate Shri S . N . Bilgrami, I. A . S ., Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports , New Delhi, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds 
Committee for another term of three years with effect from the 1st April, 1956 . 

[No. F .6 - 2 / 56 -Com .I. ] 
MOKAND LALL , Under Secy . 


- - 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1956 
S . R . O . 848 . - 10 exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of section 3 
of the Dentists Act, 1948 (XVI of 1948 ) the Government of Uttar Pradesh havo 
nominated Dr . P . D . Srivastava , Additional Director of Medical and Health 
Services, Uttar Pradesh , as a member of the Dental Council of India to represent 
that State Vice Col. A , N . Chopra resigned . 

[No. F . 6 -35 / 55 - M . I. ) 
K , BIHARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi- 2 , the 7th April 1956 
S . R . O . 849 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 4 of the Indian Aircraft 
( Public Health ) Rules , 1954, and in supersession of the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Health No. F . 16 - 1 /54 - PH ( D .7431H55 ) , dated the 
17th October , 1955 , the Central Government hereby directs that an aircraft on 
entering India from any place outside India , shall land only at Bombay Airport 
(Santa Cruz ) or Calcutta Airport (Dum Dum ) . 
Provided that nothing contained in this notification shall apply to : 
( i) an aircraft operating between Ceylon and India via Tiruchirappalli or 

Madras Airport; 
( ii) an aircraft operating between Afghanistan and India via Amritsar; 
(ili ) an aircraft operating between Singapore and India via Madras Airport 
( iv ) an aircraft operating between Nepal and India . 

[No. F . 16 - 2 / 56 - IH .) 
A . T. SESHADRI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 9th April 1956 
S . R . O . 850. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 9 of the Bombay Port Trust Act , 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , 
and in supersession of the Ministry of Transport Notification No. 8 - PI ( 219 ) / 56 . 
dated the 3rd October 1955 , the Central Government hereby appoints the 
Director General of Shipping, Bombay to be a member of the Bombay Port 
Trust Board ( representative of the Mercantile Marine Department, Bombay ) . 


[No. 8. C - PI (36 ) / 50 .). 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1956 
S . R . O . 851. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Alrcraft Act, 1934 (XXXII of 1934 ) , the Central Government is pleased to direct 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Aircraft 
Rules, 1937 , the same having been previously published as equired by section 14 
of the said Act , namely : 
In the said Rules, for rule 79, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 79 . Places other than Government aerodromes . - A place in India , other 

than a Government aerodrome shall not be used as a regular place 
of landing and departuro by a scheduled air transport service or for a 
series of landings and departures by any aircraft carrying passengers 

for hire or reward unless : 
( a ) It has been licensed for the purpose, and save in accordance with 

the conditions prescribed in such a licence; or 
( b ) it has been approved by the Director General, subject to such con . 

ditions as he may deem Alt to impose , for the purpose of giving 
Joy - rides for hire or reward ." 

[No. AR / 1937 ( 17 ) F .No. 10 - A / 70 -55 . ) 

S . MULLICK , Dy . Secy . 


(Posts and Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1956 
S .R . O . 852.- In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act , 1898 ( VI of 1898 ) the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933, namely : 

In clause ( b ) of rule 183 of the said Rules, for the words " and Gujrat 
University" , the words "Gujrat niversity and Utkal University at Cuttack " 
shall be substituted . 

[No. C . 24 - 8 / 66. ] 
V . M . BHIDE . Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1956 
S . R . O , 853 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Vindhya Pradesh for a 
public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , 
it is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby 
acquires, the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below ; 


THE SCHEDULE 
All evacuée properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Vindhya 
Pradesh , except all such properties falling under any one or more of the 
following categories : 
( 1 ) any such property 
( i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue 

is whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the 
property in the Custodian as evacuec property has not expired . 


534 


GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1986 


[PART II-- SEC. 3 


( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation Axed for making such application 
has not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 10 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect 
of which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restora . 
tion is pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certif 
cate under sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application 
under sub - section ( 2 ) of that Section for its restoration has been made, 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any 
proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

(5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act , 1961 ( LXIV of 1951) . 

( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in 
a Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious 
or charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI 1950 ) . 

( No . SIII- 1 (11 ) ( 1) /56, 1] 


S . R . O . 854 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Vindhya Pradesh for a 
public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Diş 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires , 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 


THE SCHEDULE 
All rural houses in village abadis in the State of Vindhya Pradesh , that is 
to say , houses situated in any area in that State outside the limits of a corporation , 
a municipality , a municipal committec , a notifed area committee , a town area or 
a small town committee or a cantonment as those limits existed on the 15th 
August, 1947, which have been declared or are deemed to have been declared as 
evacuec properties under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 
(XXXI of 1950 ) except all such properties falling under any one or more of the 
following categories : 
( 1) any such property -- 
(i ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue is 

whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
(ii) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the pro 

perty in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation Axed for making such application 
has not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of 
which an application under sub -section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


535 


Sub- Section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made . 

(4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not . 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[No. SIII - 1 ( 11 ) ( 1) / 56 .II .] 


S . R . O . 855 . -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Himachal Pradesh 
for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilita 
tion of displaced persons , including payment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , it 
is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby 
acquires, the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 


THE SCHEDULE 


All evacuee properties consisting of agricultural lands and groves ( includ 
ing gardens ) in the non -urban areas in the State of Himachal Pradesh except 
all such properties falling under any one or more of the following categories : 
( 1 ) any such property 
( i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue 

is whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the 

property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification of 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application 
has not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect 
of which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restora 
tion is pending at the date of this notification , or in respect of which a certifi 
cate under sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application 
under sub -section ( 2 ) of that Section for its restoration has been made ; 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any 
proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section ; 

(5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act , 1951 (LXIV of 1951) ; 

( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in 
a Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not ; 


5 30 


1 E GALETIE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


(7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[ No . SIII-1 ( 16 ) (1 ) /56.1]. 
S . R . O . 856 . -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Himachal Pradesh for a 
public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 

THE SCHEDULE 
All rural houses in village abadis in the State of Himachal Pradesh , that is 
to say , houses situated in any area in that State outside the limits of a corporation , 
a municipality , a municipal committee , a notified area committee , a town area 
or a small town committee or a cantonment as those limits existed on the 15th 
August 1947, which have been declared or are deemed to have been declared as 
evacuee properties under the Administration of Eyacuee Property Act, 1950 
(XXXI of 1950 ) except all such properties falling under any one or more of the 
following categories: 
( 1) any such property 
( i ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue is 

whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
(ii) in respect of which the period of limitation if any , fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the 

property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
(2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has 
not expired ; 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification , or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section (2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made; 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section ; 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act , 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not ; 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[No. SIII - 1 ( 16 ) ( 1 ) /56.II. ) 
S . R . O . 857. . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Madhya Bharat 
for a pul " - " . . ng a purpose connected with the relief and rehabili 
tation of . : 

including payment of compensation to such persons; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the 
displaced persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


537 


. 


notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby 
acquires , the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 

THE SCHEDULE 
All evacuee properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Madhya 
Bharat except all such properties falling under any one or more of the follow 
ing categories : 
( 1) any such property 
( i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue 

is whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an 

appeal or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of 

the property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this notification 
or in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such applica 
tion has not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the Ad 
ministration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration 
is pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate 
under Sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under 
Sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any 
proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning 
of the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act , 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in 
a Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not . 

(7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious ar 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

[No. SIII - 1 ( 9 ) ( 2 ) /SIII / 56 .1.) 
S . R . O . 858 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Madhya Bharat 
for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation 
of displaced persons, including payment or compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
it is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby 
acquires, the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below . 

THE SCHEDULE 
All rural house ; in village abadis in the State of Madhya Bharat, that is 
to say , houses situated in any area in that State outside the limits of a corpora 
tion , a municipality , a municipal committee a notified area committee , a town 
area or a small town committee or a cantonment as those limits existed on the 
15th August , 1947 , which have been declared or are deemed to have been 
declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee Property 
Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) except all such properties falling under any one or. 
more of the following categories : 
( 1) any such property 
( i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority ar 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue 
is whether the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 


538 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA . APRIL 14 . 1956 


( PART II- SEC. 3 


nw 


( ii) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, fixed for an 

appeal or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of 

the property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired . 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification 
or in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such appli 
cation has not expired . 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect 
or which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restora 
tion of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under 
sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administra 
tion of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which 
any proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section . 

(5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) . 

(6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in 
a Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 

( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

(No. SIII - 1 ( 9 ) ( 2 ) /56 .II .) 
I. N . CHIB , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR . 

New Delhi, the 4th April 1956 
S . R . O . 859 . The following draft of certain further amendments to the Em 
ployees State Insurance (Central) Rules , 1950 , which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 95 of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ), is hereby published as re . 
quired by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will 
be taken into consideration on or after the 20th April, 1956 . 

Draft Amendments 
In the said rules, for the words " First of October" " twentieth of October ” and 
" first of November" occurring in sub - rules ( 1 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of rule 31, the words 
" first of February " , " twentieth of February ” and “ first of March " , respectively . 
shall be substituted 

[No. F .HI-1 (22 ) / 56.) 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi. the 5th April 1956 


S . R . O . 860. - In pursuance of the provisions of paragraph 20 of the Employees 
Provident Funds Scheme. 1952. framed under section 5 of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri K . S . Naik , Provident Fund Inspector, Hyderabad to be the Regional Provi. 
dent Fund Commissioner for the whole of the State of Hyderabad , in addition to 
his own duties; vice late Shri Medhi Ali Mirza and further directs that the said 
Shri K . S . Natk shall work under the general control and superintendence of the 
Central Provident Fund Commissioner . 

[NO. PF .31 ( 66 ) / 54 .1 


ART BEG ] 


* * 


GAJI 


ON 1. Uken, a - 


the 


S . R . O . 861. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the dispute between the Narang Bank 
Limited, Delhi, and its workmen regarding the termination of the services of 
Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 21 OF 1955 . 

PRESENT : 
Shri P . S . Bindra , B .A ., LL .B ., Chairman . 

PARTIES : 
• The employers in relation to the Narang Bank Limited . Delhi. 


and 


Their workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 


Shri M , L , Bagai and Shri Kundanlal Nagrath - For the employers . 

Shri H . L . Puri, General Secretary, Delhi State Bank Employees Federation 
and Shri Inder Sain Babharwal - For the workmen . 


AWARD 


By Governinent of India , Ministry of Labour, Order No . LR . 100 ( 48 ) / 55 , dated 
2nd August, 1955 , the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Narang Bank Limited , Delhi, and their workmen in respect of the following matter 
has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication : 


“ Whether the termination of the services of Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, an 

accountant of the Bank at Delhi, was justified and / or the relief, if 
any , to be granted to him . " 


2 . The Delhi State Bank Employees Federation representing the workmen con 
tended that Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, joined the service of the Narang Bank of 
India , Limited , at its Lahore office in March , 1943, that on Partition of India the 
bank shifted its office from Pakistan to India and that Inder Sain Sabharwal, con 
tinued to be in the service of the Bank , but was charge - sheeted on 25th March , 
1935, and his services were wrongly terminated on 12th May, 1955 , with effect 
from 6th April, 1955 (the day when he was suspended ) . It is further contended 
that the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India (Bank Disputes ) award as modified 
by the Government of India , became enforceable on 1st December , 1954 and that 
the employees sought implementation of the award on 27th December , 1954 and 
that Inder Sain , along with Pishori Lal and Tilak Raj took the leading part in 
getting the award implemented and they sent representations to the Bank , the 
copies of which are marked Exhibits 1 and 2 . It is further stated that having 
failed to get the award implemented , they approached the Conciliation Officer 
on 8th January , 1955 , and made several representations and that on account of 
the said activities , the management got annoyed with Inder Sain Sabharwal and 
his colleagues and therefore they served a charge - sheet on him on 25th March , 
1955 containing the frivolous charges. The copy of the charge - sheet is marked 
Exhibit 3 . It is further stated that the charges were properly replied to and that 
the enquiry conducted by the manager was not proper as a practising lawyer Shri 
Mohanlal Bagai, who was present throughout the proceedings interfered in the 
enquiry . Anyhow both parties led evidence and finally as a result of this enquiry 
Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, was dismissed by the Chairman of the Narang Bank 
of India on the report made by the enquiry officer , viz ., Shri Kundanlal Nagrath , 
the Manager . In short the case for the union is that it is a case of victimisation as 
Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal wanted the bank authorities to implement the bank 
award . 


3 . In reply the management has stated that it is true that Inder Sain Sabharwal 
joined the service of the Bank in 1943 , at Lahore but after Partition he did not 
rejoid the Bank at Delhi. He however came back to the Bank in December , 


540 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


L ART II SEC . 3 


1948, and requested for accommodation but the Bank was not in a position to take 
him but on his entreaties he was allowed to be taken as a temporary hand , subject 
to removal on 24 hours notice. This agreement was signed by Shri Inder Sain 
Sabharwal on 3rd September , 1949, which is attached as Annexure I, to the 
written statement of the Bank . It is further stated that Shri Inder Sain 
Sabharwal s work and conduct after partition could not be said to be satisfactory 
but the management tolerated him and made no written remarks about it. One 
increment was also given to him in 1953. It is further contended that the Bank 
Award was not applicable to this Bank as all the employees of the Bank had 
entered into an agreement with the Bank agreeing to have status quo considering 
the financial condition of the Bank . The Bank applied to the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal for exclusion of this Bank from the application of the Sastry Award . It 
is further stated that it is true that Inder Sain Sabharwal wrote to the Con 
ciliation Officer for the implementation of the award but it is maintained that it 
is not a case of victimisation and he has been punished for gross insubordination 
and misconduct. The parties agreed to admit the whole proceedings of the enquiry 
in evidence without any further proof. The parties were allowed to supplement 
their evidence. Both parties filed affidavits of their witnesses and a chance was 
given to both parties to cross- examine the witnesses whose affidavits were filed . 
The management did not want to cross - examine any of the witnesses of the union 
but the union cross - examined Shri K . L . Nagrath , Manager of the Bank , Shri K . D . 
Singh , Internal Auditor of the Bank , Shri Lal Bahadur, Peon , and Shri Harnam 
Dass , Cashier of the Bank , whose affidavits were filed by the Bank . 

4 . I first take up charges 6 and 8 which are most material. 
Charge 6 . — The other day before some members of the staff you said to me: 
“ Main Ney Abhi to kuch kiya hee nahi. Mai to aap logon ko kaid kara 

sakta hu . ” 
(I have done nothing so far. I can get you people imprisoned ) . 

K . L . Nagrath , Manager of the Bank , stated that one evening after office hours 
he and Shri K . D . Singh were sitting when Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal and some 
of the members of the staff came to his room and discussion arose about the award . 
He says that Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal , in a threatening mood , used the following 
words towards them : 
"Main Ney Abhi to kuch kiya hee nahi. Main to aap logon ko kaid kara 

sakta hu ." 
[ So far I have done nothing. I can get you (people ) arrested . ] 

He further stated that on this Shri K . D . Singh , uncomfortably laughed it away . 
He maintained that it was certainly not a joke. Shri K . D . Singh , Internal Auditor 
of the Bank , corroborated him . Shri Dharam Vir , also supported the above two 
witnesses. Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, in his reply to the charge- sheet , stated as 
follows: --- 
" Para 6 , is utterly untrue. This is something from the guilty conscience , 

since you know that your act in not implementing the Award is 

against law and is punishable . " 
During the inquiry (Exhibit 5 ) Inder Sain Sabharwal, examined himself as a 
witness but did not say a word about this incident. Inder Sain Sabharwal has 
also filed an affidavit before me and simply stated that the charges against him 
were false but did not say a word about this incident. In the course of the inquiry 
(Exhibit 5 ) he however examined two witnesses about this incident namely Shri 
Tilas Raj and Pishori Lal. Shri Tilak Raj stated as follows: 
“ He was joking with Mr. Singh . They were talking about the award . Mr. 

Singh , was telling Mr. Inder Sain that he should not talk much about 
the award . Mr. Inder Sain was talking that the award is not being 
implemented . Mr. Singh , told him that if he continued to talk about 
the award in the same strain , Mr. Singh , would get him dismissed as 
he said management was his own . In reply to this Mr. Inder Sain 
said to Mr. Singh in a joke I will get you arrested . Thereafter the 

joke ended in laughter . " 
From the above it will be evident that it was not a joke but a serious talk in 
which Inder Sain Sabharwal wanted the management to implement the award . 
According to this witness Mr. Singh , asked Inder Sain Sabharwal, to desist from 
talking about the award and that otherwise he would get him dismissed and that 


PART IT - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


541 


in reply he said that he will get him arrested . If Mr. Singh , gave a threat of dis 
missal and Inder Sain Sabharwal, replied that he would get Mr Singh , 
arrested , then in no case it can be trcated as a joke but according 
to the witness himself a heated d . scussion was going on about the 
implementation of the award . This excuse of a joke appears to be 
an after thought and has been coined after the evidence of Shri K , D . Singh , 
before the enquiry ofllcer. There was not a word about it in the reply given by 
Inder Sain Sabharwal, to the charge - sheet. Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal has him 
seit Intentionally omitted to refer to this incident in his statement before the 
enquiry officer and in his affidavit filed by him before me. The threat was not 
towards Shri K . D . Singh , alone but it was addressed to the manager as well , as 
he used the words " Tum Logon ko ( you people ). " It appears that Shri K . D . 
Singh , pocketed the insult and tided over the awkward situation by pretending 
to laugh . The union has also examined Shri Pishori Lal, before the enquiry 
officer whose version is as follows : 
" The position is like this . One day after banking hours, Industrial Disputes 

Act had been hrought out of which Inder Sain tead out a clause 
whereby non - implementation of award was punishable . There was 

a talk going on with K , D . Singh , by way of joke" , 
Reading the evidence as a whole , I have no doubt that without any provocation 
or justification , Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, insulted the Manager and the Internal 
Auditor of the Bank by threatening them to get them imprisoned . Para 521 of the 
Sastry Award deals with the disciplinary action and in sub - clause ( 4 ) the ex 
pression " gross misconduct " has been defined . Clause ( c ) thereof runs as 
follows: 


" Drunkenness or riotous or disorderly or indecent behaviour on the premises 

of the bank " . 


Inder Saune tactent na 


The present incldent occurred in the premises of the Bank in the Manager s 
room and it was a deliberate insult hurled upon the management without any 
justification , Shri Inder Sain Sabharwul was guilty of gross misconduct and 
thcretore the management was justified in dismissing him . 
5 . Charge No . 8 . - It reads as follows : 
" You are doing part -time work of some Arms without the permission of the 

Bank authorities” . 
Inder Sain did not deny the fact in the charge sheet and wrose as follows: 
" The fact of my doing part time work is well in your knowledge since long 

when you did not think it proper to raise any objection . The per 
mission of the Bank is not at all necessary . I have read the award 
thoroughly and I do not find therein any condition to obtain the 
permission from the Bank . I would however be glad to know from 
you if therc is any provision in the award . On knowing the same 

from you , I will discontinue doing part time work " . 
From the above it will be evident that according to him , no permission of the 
Bank way necessary for doing part time work and that he was actually doing part 
time work . In fact, he has examined Shri Kessar Dass Juneja ( A . 1 ) , who states 
that Shri Inder Şain Sabharwal, is known to him since 1950 and that he has been 
doing part time work as an accountant in his firm known as Cycle and Gramaphone 
Store3. He has however stated that Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal was introduced to 
him by Shri K . L . Nagrath , Manager of the Bank when he had requested him to 
supply him A competent accountant. He has also said that Shri K , D . Singh , 
Internal Auditor also recommended Inder Sain Sabharwal for doing the part time 
work in his firm . This evidence has been introduced to show that the manage 
ment agreed to his doing part time work with other concerns. Shri K . L . Nagrath , 
Manager of the Bank and Shri K , D . Singh , both have contradicted this witness 
and I sce no reason to disbclicve them . In fact, Inder Sain Sabharwal in his 
writte statement did not say that permission was cver taken by him from the 
management. On the other hand , he maintained that no premission was neces 
sary , Para , 321 clause ( 4 ) ( a ) of Sastry Award runs as follows: 


" engaging in trade or business outside the scape of his duties except with 

the permission of the bank " . 
Such a conduct has been termed as gross misconduct for which an employee 
can be dismissed without notice . The union however tried to show that one K . N . 

Suri, was also dealing in shares. Dealing in shares stands on a different footing 


542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1988 


(PART II - Sec. 3 


than doing part time work of an accountant for some other firm . Many Govern 
ment servants also ueal in shares but they cannot be allowed to do any part time 
work for anybody else . His statement that he has been supplying stationery has 
not been coroborated by any independent evidence . Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, 
has been ob . aining leave on false pretexts for doing part time work for other 
concerns during Quice nours and this shows that he treated his service in the Bank 
as a part time job . Such an employee cannot be tolerated in service by the 
Bank and the Bank was justified in dismissing him , 

6. Charge No. 1.- It runs as follows: 


" On 17th January, 1955 you applied for half day s leavę but you did not 

turn up at all that day . Again on 18th January , 1955 , we received 
your application for leave for one day on account of illness . On the 
18th evening Ram Lakhan Peon , met you at your residence and you 
told him that you were all right and so would attend office from 19th 
January , 1955 , but you did not come on the 19th and 20th . We re 
ceived your application on 20th January , 1955 , for granting leave for 
19th and 20th on account of illness, through Mr. Peshouri Lal. At 
11 a . m . on 20th January , 1955 , Lal Bahadur peon , went to your house 
and found that you were not there. He went again in the evening 
at about 4 p . m , and even at that time you were not at home. He 
stayed there till 6 p . m . and upto that time you had not come back 
home. You were not ill but you were staying away from office for 
doing urgent work of those for whom you work part time" . 


I have gone through the evidence and find that this charge has also been 
established by the evidence of Ram Lakhan , peon , and Lal Bahadur, peon , support . 
ed by Exhibits 26 and 30 and by the letters of the daughter of Shri Inder Sain 
Sabharwal, marked Exlı :bits 27 and 28 . Ram Lakhan has tried to improve upon 
his statement which is evident from his slip marked Exhibit 30. 


7 . Charge No. 7. - It runs as follows : 
" Last Friday, on 18th March , 1955, during working hours when you were 

idlying away your time and that of some other members of the staff 
by talking to them , I took an exception to that when you said to me. 
Do the worst you can . " 


I have considered the evidence and this chargo is proved by the evidence of 
K , L , Nagrath , Manager , who states that on 18th March , 1955 , Shri Inder Sain 
Sabharwal, was not working properly and when he told him that there was 
enough work and that he should not whilo away his time in talk and complete 
the work , he replied that he will do the work in his own way and remarked " do 
the worst you can " . The evidence produced by the union is not worthy of 
credit . 


8 . So far as the rest of the charges ( Charge Nos. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 9 ) arc concerned 
they are not material and could not be dismissed as they amounted to " minor 
misconduct " , Under the circumstances , I am of opinion that the termination of 
Services of Shri Inder Sain Sabharwal, an Accountant of the Bank , was justified 
and no relief can be granted to him . 


9 . I pass my award accordingly . 
The 28th March , 1958 . 

P . S . BINDRA , Chairman . 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad . 

[ No. LR . 100 ( 48 ) /58.] 


New Delhi, the 6th April 1956 


S . R . O . 862 .- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ), in the matter of an 

application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Girja Singh of Central 
Kirkend Colliery . 


PART II — SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1960 


543 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES), CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No . 55 OF 1955 ( u / s 33A OF THE ACT ). 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairman . 
Sari S . P . Chopra - --Member , 
Sori T . N . Mallappa - Member. 

PARTIES 
Shri Girja Singh , Underground Trammer, Central Kirkend Colliery , P . O . 
Kusunda , District Manbhum - Applicant. 

Versus 
Messrs. Central Kurkend Coal Co. Ltd ., Central Kurkend Colllery , P . Q . 
Kusunda, District Manbhum - Opposite Party. 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Lalit Burman - For the Applicant. 
Shri S . Sen , Advocate - For the Opposite Party . 


AWARD 


Dated , the 20th February , 1956 


This is an application by Shri Girja Singh under section 33A of he 
Industrial Disputes Act against the Management of the Central Kurkend Coal 
Co . Ltd . The management has filed a reply statement. But it is not necessay 
to go into the merits of the dispute raised by the applicant as the parties have 
come to terms embodied in the written memorandum which runs as follows: 

" The parties come to the following terms: 


1. That the opposite party will pay a lump sum of Rs. 200 ( Two hundred ) 

only to the applicant for settling the case , 


2 . That the applicant on getting payment of the above amount will forego 

his claim for job and all other claims i. e . he will have no further 
claim for the opposite party , 


It is , therefore , prayed that the above matter may kindly be disposed of 

on the above terms and an award may be passed accordingly . 
Dated , the 30th January 1956 . 


( Sd .) Illigible, Manager , 

( Sd.) LALIT BURMAN , for the applicant. 
for the Opp. Party 

( Sd . GJAJA SINGH 
Under the circumstances we pass an award in terms as stated above . 


( Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR, Chairman . 
(Sd.) S . P . CHOPRA , Member , 
( Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA . Member. 

[No. LR11 - 55 - 2 (2 ) / 56 - 1. ] 


S . R . O . 863. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ), Calcutta, in the matter 
of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Gokul Dom if 
Ratibati Colllery. 


544 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1966 


[ PART II - SEC 3 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ) , CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No. 60 or 1955 UNDER SECTION 33A OF THE ACT . 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra ---Member, 
Shri T . N . Mallappa -- Member. 

PARTIES 
Shri Gokul Dom , C / o Colliery Workers Union , G , T . Road , Assansol, 
Burdwan - Applicant. 

Versus 
Ratibati Colliery, P .O . Kalipahari, District Burdwan - Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Kalyan Roy, of 1. M . W . F . - For the Applicant. 
Shri M . L . Rawal - For the Opposite Purty . 

AWARD 

Dated , the 20th February , 1956 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
by a workman belonging to the Ratibati Colliery against the colliery . The 
Collicry has Alcd a reply statement . 

The applicant states that he was employed as a winding engine driver when 
the management over and above his duty as a winding engine driver ordered 
him to handle the cndless haulage engine also. On 12th April , 1955 when he 
was working the haulage enginc on Jiten Bhuiyan without his knowledge 
overwound the winding engine causing injury to another worker . The appli 
cant did not ask or request Jitcn Bhuiyan to handle the winding engine at any 
time. On 13th April, 1955 when the applicant went to work hc w27 told by the 
pit- in - charge of his discharge and was asked not to come. On 14th April 1955 
he was served with a charge - sheet which was false to the knowledge of the 
opposite party . The applicant rcplied to charge - shect on 18th April, 1955 . On 
19th April, 1955 the applicant applicd to the Manager for permitting him to join 
duty when the Manager told him about his dismissal. The above action was 
taken without giving any hearing or any proper enquiry and in violation of 
section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

The Colliery in the reply statement admits that the workman was in charge 
of the winding engine and the endless haulage, but accuses the workman of 
having left his duty and asked Jiten Bhuiyan to perform the duty of attending 
to the winding engine. The reply statement proceeds to say that the workman 
was treated leniently and suspended for three days from 18th April, 1955 and 
that after the period of suspension which expired on 21st April, 1955 the work 
man did not report for duty and that under those circumstances there was no 
question of the colliery dismissing him as the workman had voluntarily absented 
himself after 21st April , 1955 and abandoned service . 

When the application was taken up on 18th February , 1956 the Colliery 
applied for an adjournment on the ground that the papers were with the lawyer 
who was not in a position to attend the Tribunal that day . We were not 
satisfied that there was sufficient ground for an adjournment and decided to 
dispose of the application on merits on the available materials . 

From the records on our Ale we find that the workman was served with a 
charge - sheet on 14th April, 1955 . He sent a reply on 18th April, 1955 . In his 
reply he stated that when he went tu look after the haulage engine. the case 
reported against him happened and that he was not responsible for the same. 
We find on the reverse of the charge- sheet a statement given by Jiten Bhuiyan 
in which he says that the workman came to him and asked him to drive the 
engine and that he drove the same on his direction . He tenders an apology 
for the same. It does not appear that the statement was recorded in the 
presence of the workman nor does it appear that he was informed in advance 
about any proposed onquiry by the management. There is an endorsement on 
the charge- sheet by the Manager suspending the workman for three days. There 
is no material on the basis of which we cani conclude that this order of sus 
pension was communicated to the workman . When the workman wrote to the 


PART II —+SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


545 


Manager on 19th April, 1955 stating therein what all he has stated now in his 
application the Manager did not choose even to inform him that he had been 
suspended for three days. The least that the workman was entitled to was 
a hearing which does not appear has been given to him at any stage . In these 
circumstances we find it very difficult to agree with the management that this 
is a case of voluntary abandonment of service . The applicant is entitled to an 
awurd , directing reinstatement with back wages. The applicant will report 
himself for duty within a fortnight from the date of the publication of the 
award , We, therefore , pass an award accordingly , 

( Sd .) J. N , MAJUMDAR , Chairman , 
(Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA, Member . 
( Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member . 

[No. LRII-55 - 2 ( 2 ) / 56 - II. ] 
New Delhi, the 7th April, 1956 
S . R . O . 864 , - ]n pursuance of section 7 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the lindustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad in the planer of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Sliri Kishun Chand , Pointsman , Dehri Rohtas Light 
Railway Company , Limited , Dalmianugar. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT S INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD. 

APPLICATION No. 345 Or 1955 

( arising out of Reference No. 15 of 1954 ) 
In the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

PRESENT 
Shri P . S . Bindra , B .A .LL . B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Kishun Chand, Pointsman - Complainant 


Vs. 


Dehri Rohtas Light Rly . Co . Ltd ., Dalmlanagar. - Opposite Party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 
2. The complainant withdraws his application and it is hereby dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

( Sd .) P . S . BINDRA , Chairman . 
Central Government s Industrial 

Tribunal Dhanbad . 

[ No. LR - 3 (72) /54 ] . 
S . R . O . 865 — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indutrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
183A of the said Act from Shri Parimal Kumar Guha, an employce of the Bombay 
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited , Calcutta , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT S INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD . 

APPLICATION No. 353 OF 1955 

( arising out of Reference No. 23 of 1954 ) 
in the matter of an application U / s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

PRESENT 
Shri P . S . Bindra , B . A . LL . B ., Chairman 

PARTIES 
Shri Parimal Kumar Guha - Complainant 

V3. 
Zonal Manager , Bombay Mutual Life Assurance Society Lid., 9 , Brabourne 

Road , Calcutta - 1 - - Opposite Party . 


546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14, 1938 


( PART II - SEC. 3 


- - 


- 


- 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

2. The complainant ( Shri Parimal Kumar Guha ) has withdrawn his applica 
tion and hence it is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly , 

( Sd .) P . S . BINDRA , Chairman , 
Central Governments Industrial 

Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[ No, LR - 90 ( 35 ) / 55 . ] 
S .R . O . 866 . — The following decision of Shri D , E , Eeuben , Member, Appellate 
Tribunal, in respect of a matter referred to him under section 6 of the Industrial 
Disputes ( Banking Companies ) Decision Act, 1955 , by the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 3786 dated the 21st 
December 1955 , as amended by S . R . O . 119 , dated the 4th January 1956 is hereby 
published for general information . 
IN THE HONOURABLE LABOUR APPLLATE TRIBUNAL OF INDIA AT 

BOMBAY 
REFERENCE No . 2 OF 1985 . 

BETWEEN 
Certain workmen of : 

( 1) the Raghunathmull Bank , Limited , Hyderabad , 
( 2 ) the Bank of Bikaner , Limited , Jaipur, 
( 3 ) the Bank of Jaipur, Limited , Jaipur 

AND 
( 1 ) thc Raghunathmull Bank , Limited , Hyderabad , 
( 2 ) the Bank of Bikaner , Limited, Jaipur , 

( 3 ) the Bank of Jaipur , Limited, Jaipur. 
In the matter of interpretation of paragraph 292 of the award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes) , Bombay . 

The 22nd day of March , 1956 

PRESENT 
Shri D , E , Reuben , Member . 

APPEARANCE : --- 
For the workmen : 
Shri A , C , Kakar, President, All India Bank Employees Association , assisted 

by Shri S . C , Ajmera , Shri R . L . Khandelwal of the Rajasthan Bank 
Employees Union , Shri Brij Gokul Singh of Raghunathmull Bank 
Staf Association , Shri K . J . Joseph , Shri P . K . Menon and Shri 
K . K . Mandal, 
Shri R . K . Bhanot of the Association of the Punjab National Bank 
Employees for the workmen of the Punjab National Bank , Limited , 

Delhi. 
For the: 

( 1) The Raghunathmull Bank , Ltd . Hyderabad : No appearance , 
( 2 ) The Bank of Bikaner, Ltd ., Bikaner : Shri T . N . V . Raman . 
( 3 ) The Bank of Jaipur , Ltd ., Jaipur 

: Shri Tenubhai D . 
: Desai, Solicitor, 

: Bombay , 
( 4 ) The Punjab National Bank , Ltd . Delhi : Shri J . P . Thacker , 

Solicitor with Om Prakash 

Gupta . 

DECISION 
1. This is a Reference under section 6 of the Industrial Disputes ( Banking 
Companies ) Decision Act, 1955 , for the interpretation of paragraph 292 of the 
award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ), popularly known as 
the Shastri Tribunal. 


547 


PART II SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1988 

- = - . : . 
2 . The relevant portion of paragraph 292 of the award , as modified by the 
Appellate decision under section 3 of the Act , is as follows: 
Wo Lave vareluily conviuered all the different aspects of the question . We 

give the following directions: 
Section 11 - For workmen who entered service of the bank before 31st 
January , 1950 , 
( 1) The workman s basic pay on 31st January , 1950 shall not be reduced in 

any case , 
( 2 ) Subject to rule ( 1 ) the adjusted basic pay in the new scale shall not 

exceed what point- to - point adjustment would give him or the maxi 
mum in the new scale . 


( 4 ) Subject to rules ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) a workman s basic pay in the new scale 

shall be fixed in the following manner : 
( a ) A workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay flxed by our 

award (herein called the new scale ) by placing him at the stage 
in the new scale equal to , or next above his basic pay as on 31st 
January 1950 in the pre -Sen scale then in force (herein called the 

existing scale ) . 
( b ) To the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause ( a ) annual 

increment or increments in the new scale as from that stage 
onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every 
completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 31st. 

January 1950. 
( c ) Such increments shall not however excecd four in number . 


(4A ) After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses ( a ) , ( b ) , 

and ( c ) supra two further annual increments in the new scale will 
be added thercto for service for the two years 1951 and 1952 . In 
addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal incre 
ment for 1953 on 1st April 1953. Thereafter , each succeeding year s 
annual increment shall take effect as and from 1st April of that 

year , 
(5 ) ( a ) Where a workman received an additional Increment or incre 

ments in his basic pay either at the initial start or by way of special 
promotion later on , his length of service will be taken to be the 
period which would ordinarily be necessary to bring & workman 
with the usual initial start without special promotion to that basic 
pay as on 31st January 1950, in the existing scale ( fractions being 

rounded off to the ncarest integer ) . 
( b ) Similarly where a workman s increment or increments have been 

withheld prior to 31st January 1950 the length of service in his 
case will be calculated by substracting the number of years for 
which the increments have been withheld . 


section in or workmen who joined service of the bank after 514 January, 


Section III — For workmen who joined service of the bank after 31st January , 

1950 . 
( 7 ) The workman shall be fitted into the new scale of pay on a point- to 

point basis as though it had been in force since he joined the 
service of the bank , provided that his adjusted basic pay is not less 
than what it would be under a point- to -point adjustment on the 

corresponding ( pre-Sen scale . 
Section IV - General rules applicable to all workmen , 


( 10 ) Wherever as a result of the adjustment as directed above the total 

emoluments under the new scale made up of basic pay , dearness 
allowance, special allowance and house rent allowance fall short 
of the total emoluments of any workman under the above heads as 
on 31st January , 1950, the difference shall be given to him by way 
of an additional allowance (to be called " Temporary Adjustment 
allowanco " ) until such difference is fully absorbed by future incre 
ments in the new scale . 


$ 18 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


(PART II - ŞEC. 3 


3 . The question which I am asked to answer is : " Whether for computing the 
length of service for purposes of fixation of pay in accordance with the directions 
contained in paragraph 292 of the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal 
( Bank Disputes ) constituted by the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour No, S . R . O . 35, dated the 5th day of January 1952, modified 
as aforesaid , additional increment or increments either at the initial start or by 
way of special promotion , granted after the 31sh January 1950 , should be taken 
into account in respect of either or both of the following categories of such 
workmen specifed below , namely : 

( 1) Those who entered service on or before the 31st January , 1950 . 
( 2 ) Those who entered service after 31st January , 1950 ." 


4 . The Reference was argued before me on behalf of the workmen of the 
Raghunathmull Bank Ltd ., Hyderabad , the Bank of Bikaner , Ltd ., Bikaner and 
the Bank of Jaipur, Ltd ., by Shri A . C . Kakar , President, All India Bank 
Employees Association . He relied on the principles to be deduced from rules 
1 to 5 cited above , and argued that the intention of the Tribunal is apparent, 
namely to ensure that in the process of adjustment the basic pay of the work 
men is not reduced , that due weightage is given to length of service , that the 
workmen are given the advantage of any special increment they have received 
either at the start or during the course of their service, and that they are given 
such increments as may have fallen due after the date from which the adjust 
ment is made. This is in accord , he urges , with the ideas of the Industrial 
Courts regarding social justice. In the light of these considerations he urges 
that old entrants, by which term I mean those who entered service on or before 
31st January 1950, should be given the advantage of additional increments 
received after the 31st January 1950 . As regards new cntrants, that is persons 
who entered service after 31st January 1950, he urges that rule 7 should be 
read in the light of rules 1 to 5 as requiring due consideration to be given for 
additional increments received by them . He argued further that, on a proper 
reading of rule 7 with rule 5 and paragraph 286 of the award , new entrants are 
entitled to get the benefit of additional Increments recelved by them . His 
reasoning is as follows: Under rulc 7 new entrants are directed to be fitted into 
the new scales on a point- to -point basis . Polnt-to - point basis is defined in 
paragraph 286 of the award as " the placing of cach employee at that stage in 
the new scale to which he would have risen by reason of length of service if he 
had entered service on the new scale" ; in other words, the employee is to be 
fitted into the new scale giving him credit for his full length of service. Shri 
Kakar points out that , in rule 5 of paragraph 292 of the award , length of service 
has been specially defined , namely that where an additional increment or Incre 
ments have been received the length of service will be taken to be the period 
which would ordinarily be necessary to bring a workman with the usual initial 
start without special promotions to his basic pay on the relevant date . 
Shri Kakar argues that length of service having been so defined this definition 
should be held to apply to rule 7 . Shri Kakar s argument as to old entrants 
was adopted by Shri R . K . Bhanot , Member of the Executive Committee of the 
Association of the Punjab National Bank Employees , who represents the work 
men of the Punjab National Bank Ltd ,, Delhi. Apparently , this Association was 
principally concerned with the case of new entrants who are ex - employees of 
the Bharat Bank . Ltd ., and were employed by the Punjab National Bank , Ltd ., 
after 31st January , 1950. These workmen , he stated , were taken on by the 
Punjab National Bank , Ltd ., on different rates of wages according to their 
experience and the particular capacity in which they were employed . Taking 
the particular case of an employee who was engaged on an initial wage of 
Rs. 105 as against the minimum of Rs. 75 in the Bank s scale of wages, he urged 
that the period for wliich the employce would have to serve in ordinary course 
to rise from Rs. 75 to Rs. 105 should be taken to have been his length of service 
on the date when he commenced service . This is the same argument as put 
forward by Shri Kakar on the basis of rule 5 and paragraph 286 of the award . 

5 . Before dealing with the subject matter of the reference, it is necessary 
to dispose of a preliminary objection raised by Shri Kakar to the apearance of 
a legal practitioner, Shri Tanubhai Desai, on behalf of the Jaipur Bank . 
Limited . “ Shri Kakar relies for his objection on the general practice of the 
Tridustrial Courts and the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Cappellate Tribunal) Act. Section 33 in express terms relates to " procecdings 
under this Act " , whereas the present proceeding is under an entirely different 
Art As for the so called practice of the Industrial Courts, it is based upon 
statutory provision , for example see sub - sections ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of section 30 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and section 83A of the Bombay Industrial 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


549 


Relations Act, 1946 . There is no such restriction in the Act under which the 
Reference has been made to me. Hence, the preliminary objection fails . 

6 . Under Section 6 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies) Decision . 
Act, 1955 the Central Government is empowered to refer for decision any matter 
in respect of which a difficulty or a doubt has arisen " as to the interpretation 
of any provision " of the award . My powers under this provision , therefore , are 
limited to the matter of interpretation , and a consideration as to what social 
justice requires is irrelevant. I have to confine myself to the portion of the 
award which I am asked to interpret and , reading it in its context, I have to 
come to a decision as to what it means. Where that meaning is clear it will not 
be proper for me to attempt to deduce principles from other portions of the 
award and proceed on the basis that the Tribunal intended to embody in the 
portion under interpretation the principles so deduced . Two documents were 
placed before me by Shri Kakar , one dealing with the adjustments made by 
the Raghunathmull Bank , Ltd ., relative to old entrants , and the other giving: 
particular of adjustments made by the Bank of Jaipur, Ltd ., Kotah Branch , 
relative to new entrants . As my function is only to interpret the award , I shall 
not comment on these documents, which I have treated as produced merely to 
give me an idea of the kind of difficulties that have arisen in the implementation 
of the award . 

7 . Reading the directions in paragraph 292 of the award relating to old 
entrants I have no doubt that the question referred to me regarding these 
workmen must be answered in the negative . To understand the directions 
given by the Sastri Tribunal it is necessary to say something about the circum 
stances in which the Tribunal s award came to be made. Immediately preceding 
the constitution of the Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes Act, there was 
an adjudication in the same matter by a tribunal consisting of three retired 
High Court Judges presided over by Shri K . C . Sen and appointed under the . 
Industrial Disputes Act. That Tribunal made its award in July 1950 and under 
its directions its award as to scales of pay began to operate in February 1950 . 
This award was subsequently declared void by the Supreme Court, and hence 
the necessity for the appointment of the Sastri Tribunal. Pending the decision 
of the Sastri Tribunal, the scales of pay and dearness allowance awarded by 
the Sen Tribunal were preserved and continued by legislation . It was owing : 
to the artificial position so created that, although the decision of the Sastri 
Tribunal was given in March 1953, adjustment in the new pay scales was 
directed to be made on the basis of the workmen s basic pay as on the 31st 
January 1950, that is to say , on the basis of the Banks own pay scales as 
distinct from the scales on which the workmen were then being paid . This 
reference back to the 31st January 1950 was not necessary in the case of banks 
which were not covered by the Sen award but, as the Sastri award dealt with 
all the banks together , a distinction was not made between the two sets of banks. 

8 . For the purpose of adjusting the old entrants in the new scales the 
Tribunal proceeded on the workman s basic wage as on the 31st January , 1950. 
This basic pay was not to be reduced in any case and , subject to this limitation . 
the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point -to -point 
adjustment in the new scale would have given the workman ; nor was it to 
exceed the maximum of the new scale . Any special treatment which the 
workman had received by way of additional increments , either at the start or 
during the course of his service , was carefully allowed for by rule 5 which 
provided that, corresponding to such additional increments , the length of the 
workman s service would be notionally increased . The credit to be given to 
the workmen for such additional increments was necessarily confined to the 
period up to and including the 31st January 1950 , as that was the date with 
reference to which the adjustment was to be made. For the period subsequent. 
to 31st January 1950 rule 4A provided that , after the adjustments directed in 
rule 4 , two further annual increments in the new scales should be added for 
service during the years 1951 and 1952; in addition the workman would be 
entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953 on the 1st April 1953, and there 
after each succeeding year s annual increment as and from the 1st April of 
that year . There was no provision with regard to any special treatment which 
the workman might have received by the grant of additional inciements 
subsequent to the 31st January 1950 . Since the attention of the Tribunal had 
been drawn to the possibility of special treatment, and since it had actually 
made provision in rule 5 for giving the workmen credit for such special 
treatment received on or before the 31st January 1950, the omission to make 
special provision for additional increments received after that date cannot be : 
regarded as accidental, 


U 


550 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


(PART II- Src . 3 


9 . The provisions of rule 7 relating to new entrants are very definite and 
" clear, and it has rightly been urged on behalf of the banks that no doubt in 
the matter of interpretation arises which would justify my seeking elsewhere 
for aid in arriving at the meaning of this rule . The workman is to be fitted into 
the new scale of pay on a point- to -point basis as though that scale of pay had 
been in force since he joined the service of the bank . What the Tribunal 
understood by point- to -point adjustment is explained by it in paragraph 286 , 
namely that the employee should be placed at that stage in the new scale to 
which he would have risen by reason of the length of his service if he had 
entered service on the new scale . This direction is subject to one proviso , 
namely that the adjusted basic pay shall not be less than what it would be under 
a point- to -point adjustment on the corresponding pre- Sen scale . It is noticeable 
that, as against the provision in section II of paragraph 292 which refers to the 
workman s actual basic pay on the 31st January 1950 , rule 7 refers to the basic 
pay to which the workman would have been entitled under a point-to -point 
adjustment on the pre -Sen scale . This is because of the artificial situation 
created by the statutory freezing of the void Sen award . For a large proportion 
of the bank employees the Sen scales became pro tempore the scales of pay , 
and this must hav affected the wages paid to new entrants . Various accounts 
were given to me as to what was done by the banks in fixing the pay of new 
entrants . About some banks it was stated that they made payment according 
to the pre - Sen scales . One bank before me claimed to have appointed new 
entrants according to the Sen scales . About other banks it was said that no 
regular system was followed . Be this as it may , the Tribunal seems to have 
treated the existing wages of new entrants as pro tempore , and therefore it 
regulated their adjustment in the new scales with reference to the bank s pre 
Sen scales . That this may in some cases have given rise to considerable hard 
ship is undoubted . Take for instance a case which was suggested to me of a 
clerk appointed on 16th February, 1953 on an initial pay of Rs. 85 and given an 
increment of Rs. 5 on 31st March , 1954 in grade the scale for which was 
Rs. 45 - - 3 — 75 — 5 — 125 . The new scale in this particular bank begins with Rs. 60 . 
According to the direction in rule 7 the workman will be fitted in at the 
beginning of the scale and will get two increments bringing his basic wage to 
Rs . 66 , and this is all that he can expect , because under point-to - point adjust 
ment on the pre - Sen scale he would be entitled only to Rs. 51. 

10 . It has been urged on behalf of the workmen that it could not have been 
the intention of the Tribunal to decrease the basic wage of new entrants , and 
that this consideration gives support to the contention that the length of service 
for the purpose of the point - to - point adjustment should be the notional length 
of service as defined . in rule 5 of paragraph 292. The hypothesis with which 
this argument starts is incorrect . In the banks which were governed by the 
Sen award the existing wage was the wage according to the Sen award . It is 
noticeable , however , that what rule 1 of paragraph 292 protects is the pre- Sen 
wage which was generally lower than the Sen award wage . Similarly in rule 
10 to which reference was made in the course of the argument protection was 
given to the pre - Sen Total Emoluments and not to the Total Emoluments 
according to the frozen Sen Award which were the actual Total Emoluments . 
I have explained above why protection was given to the pre - Sen state of things . 
The difficulty with the new entrant was that there was no pre - Sen wage to 
protect, since the new entrant came into service after the Sen award . This 
being so, the award did the next best thing , namely it protected the wage that 
the workman would have been getting if he had been appointed under the pre 
Sen scale . Hence , we cannot assume that the Tribunal intended not to decrease 
the existing wage . 

11. It is equally difficult to accept the suggestion that the point- to - point 
adjustment was intended to be made according to the notional length of service . 
For one thing , this assumes an intention on the part of the Tribunal to protect 
the existing wage, and as I have shown above no such intention appears in 
respect of the old entrants . Secondly , it is relevant to consider how old entrants 
were treated in respect of weightage for service rendered . They were not given 
credit for the whole of the service rendered ; they got only one increment for 
.every three completed years of service , and the total number of such increments 
"was confined to four a restriction which applied also to their notional service 
as defined by rule 5 . New entrants were treated very differently ; they were 
given full credit for every year of service completed . This did not matter 
because their actual service could only be two or three years at the most . But 
things become very different if the contention about point- to - point adjustment 
on the basis of notional service is accepted , for new entrants will then get credit 
in the adjustment for every year of service, whether actual or notional, which 
is more than old entrants are given . There is no reason why we should assume 


PART U - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , AL RIL 14 , 1950 


554 


that the Tribunal intended to give more favourable treatment to new entrants 
in this respect than to old entrants . 

12 . In the course of the argument a reference was also made to an observa , 
tion of the Banks Appeals Special Bench in paragraph 166 of its judgment that 
it is inherent in the award that " if the present basic wage of an employee is 
already higher than what point- to - point adjustment would have given him , he 
should be adjusted into the new scale on his present basic pay and should earn 
his annual increments from that point for the years 1951, 1952 and onwards." 
It was for this reason that the Appeals Special Bench renumbered clause ( d ) of 
rule 4 of paragraph 292 of the Sastri award as a separate rule 4A , so as to 
remove it from the control of rule 2 . It is important to realise that the Appeals 
Special Bench is talking here not of the actually existing wage but of the wage 
according to the pre- Sen wage. The Appeals Special Bench speaks of this as 
" the present basic wage in the same way that the Sastri award in clause ( a ) 
of rule 4 speaks of the pre - Sen scale as " the existing scale ." 

13. It follows from what I have said that the question put to me regarding 
new entrants must also be answered in the negative . 

14 . I am aware that on my interpretation of paragraph 292 , the rules therein 
if strictly implemented will lead to considerable hardship in certain , perhaps 
in many, cases . This was inevitable in a case of this magnitude, where the 
Tribunal in one judgment had to deal with numerous employees recruited by 
a large number of banks on widely differing terms of service. Where genuine 
cases of hardship occur I believe that the banks may be trusted to show a proper 
sense of generosity in implementing the award - - indeed the claim was made on 
behalf of some of the banks before me that in more cases than one they have 
deliberately gone beyond the award to avoid such hardship . I express my belief 
with confidence because every wise employer knows that a contended staff will 
be worth more to him than the small pecuniary gain which he is likely to get 
by taking advantage of a defect or lacuna in the award . 

15 . For the reasons stated above I answer the Reference in the negative, 
namely that additional increments received after the 31st January 1950 shall 
not be taken into account in computing length of service for adjustment in the 
new scales , neither in the case of those who entered service on or before the 
31st January 1950 , nor in the case of those who entered service after 31st 
January , 1950 . 

(Sd.) D . E . REUBEN , Member , 

[No. LR - 100 ( 22 ) / 55 .] 
S . R . O . 867. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the 
Industrial Employment ( Standing Orders) Act , 1946 (XX of 1946 ) , and in 
supersession of the notifications of the Government of India in the late Depart 
ment of Labour, No . LR . 11 (53 ) , dated the 10th May , 1947, and in the Ministry 
of Labour, No. SR .204 (48 ) , dated the 12th February , 1951, the Central Govern 
ment hereby exempts the industrial establishments under the control of the 
undermentioned Railway Administrations ( including the industrial establish 
ment under the control of the Eastern Railway Administration in the 
Vizagapatam Port) from all the provisions of the said Act : 

( 1 ) The Central Railway Administration . 
(2 ) The Eastern Railway Administration . 
( 3 ) The North Eastern Railway Administration , 
( 4 ) The Northern Railway Administration . 
(5 ) The South Eastern Railway Administration . 
( 6 ) The Southern Railway Administration . 
(7 ) The Western Railway Administration . 
(8 ) Integral Coach Factory , Perambur . 

[No. F . LRII / 11 (5 ) / 56 .] 


S . R . O . 868. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
ol the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) , Calcutta , in the matter 
of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Sao of Central 
Kurkend Colliery . 


552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


[ PART 11 -- SEC. 3 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (COLLIERY DISPUTES ) 

20 / 1, Gurusaday Road , Calcutta — 19 . 
APPLICATION No . 38 OF 1955 u / s 33A OF THE ACT . 


PRESENT 
Shri J . N . Majumdar — Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - -Member. 
Shri T . N . Mallappa - Member. 

PARTIES 
Shri Sao of Central Kurkend Colliery , P . S . Kendwadih , P .O . Kusunday 
District Manbhum - - Applicant. - 

Versus 
Messrs. Central Kurkend Coal Co. Ltd ., Central Kurkend Colliery , P .S . 
Kendwadih , P . O . Kusunda, District Manbhum - Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
For the applicant - Shri Lalit Burman . 
For the opposite party – Nobody appears. 

AWARD 

Dated the 10th March , 1956 
This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
by Shri Sao , an underground trolleyman , against his employer Messrs . Central 
Kurkend Coal Co . Ltd . The opposite party in this case has sent an agreement 
between the parties and prayed that an award may be passed in accordance with 
that agreement. Mr. Lalit Burman who has filed his letter of authority to appear 
on behalf of the applicant admits the truth of the settlement as per application 
and says that there may be an award in accordance with the terms of agree 
ment. We pass an award in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The 
terms of the agreement are as follows: 


“ The parties above named beg to state as follows: 
1 . That the matter in controversy has been amicably settled between the 

parties. 
2 . That the opposite party reinstates the applicant with continuity of 

service . 
3. That the opposite party has paid sum of Rs. 40 (Rupees forty ) only as 

compensation for the period he was made to sit idle . The receipt of 

which the applicant humbly acknowledges 
It is prayed that an award be passed in accordance with the agreement, 

T. I. of Shri Sao Applicant 
(Sd .) Illegible , 

Manager , 
For Central Kurkend Coal Co., Ltd ., 
Central Kurkend & West Gopalichuck 

Collieries , P . O . Kasunda , 
District Manbhum - Opposite Party . 

( Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 
( Sd.) S . P . CHOPRA , Member . 
( Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member. 


[No. LRII -55 - 2 ( 2 ) / 56 - III.] 


S .R . O . 869. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) , Calcutta , in the matter of 
an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Girijanandan Singh 
of West Bokaro Colliery . 


PAIT 14c 


8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


553 


ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES), CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No. 51 OF 1955 ( v /s 33A OF THE AÇT ) 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - Chairmun . 
Shti S . P . Chopra — Member. 
Shri T . N . Mallappa- Member . 

PARTIES 
Shri Girijanandan Singh , Loco Driver, West Bokaro Colliery , P . O . Ghatotand , 
District Hazaribagh , Bihar - Applicant, 

Versus 
The Agent, West Bokaro Colliery , P . O . Ghatotand District Hazaribagh , 
Bihar - Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , Counsel- For the Applicant . 
Shri S . C . Sen , Advocate - For Opposite Party . 


AWARD 

Dated the 10th March , 1936 
This is an application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 194T 
by a workman belonging to the West Bokaro Colliery against the Agent of the 
Colliery for setting aside an crder of lay off passed by the management. The 
Colliery has Aled a written statement. When the application was taken up , 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , appearing on behalf of the workman represented that since 
the lay off the applicant had been dismissed from service and sought our 
permission to withdraw the application with liberty to canvass the merits of the 
order of dismissal passed against the workman by means of a fresh application . 

Shri S . C . Sen , Advocate, appearing for the Colliery had no objection . In 
the result we pass an award dismissing the application . 


( Sd .) J. N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 
( Sd .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 
( Sd .) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member. 

[ No . LRII -55 - 2 (2 ) / 56 -IV .] 
S . R . O . 890. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ), Calcutta , in the matter 
of an application under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Sudhamoy Biswas 
of Belru . Dishergarh Colllery . 
ALL INDIA INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( COLLIERY DISPUTES ), CALCUTTA 

APPLICATION No. 54 OF 1956 u / 8 33 OF THE ACT. 
APPLICATION No. 41 OF 1955 v / s 33A OF THE ACT. 

PRESENT 
Shri J. N . Majumdar - - Chairman . 
Shri S . P . Chopra - Member . 
Shri T . N . Mallappa - Member . 


PARTIES 


APPLICATION No. 54 OF 1955 v / s 33 OF THE ACT . 
Messrs. Betrui Dishergarh Colliery Co. Ltd . s Belrui Dishergarh Colliery , 

District Burdwan - Applicant . 


$ 54 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1956 


(PART II - SC... , 


Versus 
Shri S. M . Biswas, Belrui Dishergarh Colliery, P .O . Sitarampur, District 
Burdwan - Opposite Party . 

APPLICATION NO . 41 OF 1955 v / s 33A OF THE ACT . 
Shri Sudhamoy Biswas , an employee of the Belrui - Dishergarh Colliery Co . 

Ltd ., Staff Quarters, Beīrui Dishergarh Colliery , Sitarampur, P . O . 
Burdwan District - - Applicant. 

Versus 
Messrs. Belrui Dishergarh Colliery Co. Ltd ., 135 , Canning Street, 

Calcutta - Opposite Party . 


APPEARANCES 
Shri P . K . Sanyal, Advocate -- -For Messrs. Belini Dishergarh Colliery. 
Shri Arabinda Ghoshal - For Shri S . M . Biswas. 

AWARD 

Dated the 10th March , 1956 
Application No. 54 of 1955 under section 33 and Application No. 41 of 1955 
under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, are connected applications . 
The reply statements have been Aled in both the applications, but it is not 
necessary to go into the merits of the rcspective contentions of the parties as 
they have composed their differences and embodied their saine in memorandums 
which read as follows: 

" Application No. 54 of 1955 u / $ 33 . 
In the matter of an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 

Act . 
Messrs . Belrui Dishergarh Colliery Co . Ltd . - Applicant. 

Versus 
Shri Sudhamoy Biswas — Opposite Party . 
The humble petition of the parties hercto 
Most respectfully sheweth : 

1 . That the parties have settled the above application on the following terms, 
viz , - - 
(a ) that the opposite party hereby offers an apology for not obeying the 

order of the Management transferring him to Calcutta ; 
( b ) that on account of the constant illness of the wife of the opposite party , 

he is unable to come to stay in Calcutta and as such the opposite 
party has prayed to the applicant for being retransferred to the 

colliery ; 
( c ) that in view of the said illness of the wife of the opposite party the 

applicant hereby grants his prayer for retransfer to the colllery with 

effect from the 20th day of February, 1956 ; 
( d ) that the opposite party shall not be entitled to any pay and other 

allowances and benefits from the 20th day of August, 1953 to the 19th 
day of February 1956 ; but the said period shall be treated as leave 

without pay granted to the opposite party . 
Your petitioners therefore pray that the above application be disposed of 

in the above terms. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound shall pray . 
(Sd .) C . M . Varma, Director , 
for Belrul Dishergarh Colliery Co. Ltd . 

( Sd.) Sudhamoy Biswas, 

A . Ghoshal, Pleader for O . P . 
APPLICATION No . 41 OF 1955 ( U /8 33A ) . 
Shri Sudhamoy Biswas — Applicant. 


PARE-H-ku . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, APRIL 16,1956 


55 


PART - 4 - 8G 3.) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1966 

555 
2 - - - - - - - - 

Versus 
Messrs . Belrui Dishcrgarh Colliery Co . Ltd . - O .P . 
The humble petition of Shri Sudhamoy Biswas applicant abovenamed . 
Most respectfully sheweth : 
1. That having regard to the settlement arrived at by your petitioner and 

the opposite party in Application No. 54 of 1955 ( u / s 33 ) in this 

court, your petitioner docs not want to proceed with the application . 
Your petitioner therefore prays that he may be permitted to withdraw the 

above application , 
And your petitionti is in duty bound shall ever pray . 

(Sd .) Sudhamoy Biswas , 

Dated 18th February, 1956 " . 
Under the circumstances a decision is passed in terms of the settlement in 
Application No, 54 of 1955 under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
and an award is passed in application No. 41 of 1955 under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , dismissing the same. 


Sd .) J . N . MAJUMDAR , Chairman . 
( $ d .) S . P . CHOPRA , Member. 
( Sd.) T . N . MALLAPPA , Member. 


[ No , LRII -55 -2 ( 2 ) /56 .] 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi- 2, the 6th April 1956 


S . R . O . 871. — It is hereby notified for general information that the name of 
Shrimati Dr, Seeta Parmanand , a member of the first Advisory Panel of the 
Central Board of Film Censors at Calcutta having been determined by lot under 
the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 
1951, the said member shall retire with effect from the 1st March , 1956 . 

[No. 14 / 1 / 55 - FC . ] 


S . R . O . 872 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors Shrimati Dr. 
Seeta Parmanand as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at 
Calcutta with effect from the 14th April, 1956 . 


[ No. 14 / 1 / 55 - FC . ] 


New Delhi- 2, the 10th April 1956 


S . R . O . 873 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, 
the Central Government hereby appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Calcutta with cffect from the 14th April, 1956 : 

1. Dr. Pratul Chandra Gupta ; 
2. Shri Bidhu Bhusan Ghosh ; 
3 . Dr. Bijanbihari Bhattacharya . 

[No. 14 / 3 /56- FC . ] 


556 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 14 , 1968 


(PART II 


S . 8 


S .R . O . 874 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule (3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, 
the Central Government hereby appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 14th April, 1956 . 

1. Prof. Priyaranjan Sen ; 
2. Shrimati Ayesha Ahmed . 

[ No. 14 /3 /86 - FC .) 


S .R . O . 875 . - it is hereby notified for general information that the following 
members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Calcutta 
retire under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 
1951, with effect from the dates Indicated against each : 

1 . Prof. Priyaranjan Sen - 1st March , 1956 . 
2. Shrimati Ayesha Ahmed — 5th March, 1956. 

[ No . 14 / 3 / 56 - FC . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1958 
S . R . O . 876 . The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the order of the Government 

of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No, S . R . O . 
3805 dated the 26th December, 1955 , and in modification of the Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No . S . R .O . 120 dated the 10th January , 1956 , that tho 
Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Films Censors at Bombay 

shall consist of 38 members with effect from the 14th April , 1956 . 
(b ) appoints , after consultation with the said Board , Shrimati Lilavatt 

Munghi, Shrimati Sharda Bhargava , and Shrimati Chandrawati 
Lakhanapal, as members of the Advisory Panel at Bombay with 
effect from the 14th April, 1956 

( No. 14 / 1/66 -1C .) 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GIANERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRIAS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELAI 1956 


