ILU 


REGD . No. D - 222 


San 


The Gazette of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 49 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1964 (AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886) 


Soparato paglag is given to this part in order that it may bo Aled as a separato compllation 


NOTICE 


Tho undermontioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 25th Novomber 1964 : 


Ibo 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No, 


145 No. IPC (Genl. 36)/64 , dt. 13th Nov . 

1964 . 


Ministry of Commerce 


No. 94 ITC ( PN )/64 , dt. 13th Nov. 1964 


Do. 


Do. 


Decision to set up a Film Export 
Advisory Committeo , its com 

position and functions . 
Import of (i) Fruits , dried 
salted or preserved all sorts exclud 
ing Dates ( ) Dates , ( ii ) Modl 
cinal Herbs (iv ) Asafoetida 
and other Misc . items form Iran 
during April - Sept. 1964 licensing 
period . 
U . S . Aid Programme-- Import 
of rebuilt or reconditioned au 
tomobilo spare parts . 


146 No . 95- ITC ( PN ) /64 , dt. 25th Nov . 1964 


Do . 


Copley of the Gazettes Exrraordinary mentioned above will be supplied op Indent to the Manager of Publications Avis 
Llocs , Delhi, Indepts should be submitted 60 As to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gacattor. 


CONTENTS 


Pagos 


Pagos 


PART I - SECTION 1. - Notifications relating to Non 

Statutory Rulos , Regulations and Orden 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministrict 
of the Government of India ( other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 

by the Suprome Court . . . . . . 
PART 1 - SUCTION 2 . - - Notifications rogarding 

Appointments , Promotions , Lcave , etc ., 


407 


4357 


PART II - Sootifled by the Wifications 
lasuco Service 


469 


703 


Ministries of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court , . . . 
PART 1 - - SECTION 3 , - - Notlications relating to 

Non - Statutory Rules, Regulations, 
Orders and Roolutions, logued by tho 
Ministry of Dofence 


Part II - SECTION 3 . - SUD -SECTION (11) . - Statutory 

Orders apd Notifications issued by the 
Molatria of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
by Central Authorities ( other than tho 

Administrations of Union Territorles ) . . 
Part 11 - ŞECTION 4 ,- Statutory Rules and Orders 

notified by the Ministry of Defence . . 
PART III - SECTION 1. - Notifications issued by the 

Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission , Rallway Administration , 
High Courts and tho Attached and Sub 
ordinate Office of the Government of 

India . . . . . . 
Part III - SACTION 2 .-- Notifications and Notico 

fasued by the Patent Office , Calcutta 
PART 111 - SECTION 3 . - -Notfications pued by or 

under the Authority of Chief Commis 

sloners . . . 
PART M - SECTTON 4 . - Mlicellaneous Notlications 

Including Notifications , Orders , Advertko 
monts And Notice : lasued by Statutory 
Bodies . . 

. . . 
PART IV - Advertisements and Noticos by Privato 

Individuals and Pdvate Bodies . . 


469 


59 


11 


491 


Nil 


719 


PART 1 - SECTION 4 . - - Notlications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave , etc., 
of Officers issued by the Ministry of 

Defcncc . . . . . . . . 
PART II - SECTION 1 . - Acts , Ordinances and 
Regulations 

. 
Part II — SECTION 2 . - - Bills and Reports of Select 

Committees on Bills 
PART II - SECTION 3 . - SUR - SECTION ( 1 ). - - General 

Statutory Rules (Including orders , bye 
laws , etc . of a general character ) Issued by 
the Ministrios of the Government of India 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
by Ceotral Authorities ( other than tho 
Administrations of Union Territories ) . . 


225 


NI 


1989 


SUPPLEMENT No . 49. 
Weekly Epidemiological Reports for wock -onding 

28th November 1964 
Births and Deaths from Princlpal discasos lo towo 

with a population of 30 , 000 and over in 
India durlog work - ending 7th November 
1964 


1871 


1999 


L /635261/ 64 


( 407 ) 


408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 5 , 1964 (AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1886 ) 


(Part I - uc . 1 


PART 1 - SECTION 1 


Notifications relating to Non - Statutory Rulos , Regulation , Orders and Resolutions 
issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) 

and by the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT & 

COOPERATION 
(Department of Co -operation ) 

New Delhi, the 28th November 1964 
No. 7 - 8 /62 - Coord / BC . In continuation of this Migistry s 
resolution No . 7 - 8 /62 - Coord , dated the 30th March 1963, 
and subscquent modifications thereto , the following persons 
are appointed as members of the National Advisory Board 
for Labour Contract & Construction Cooperativos - 

Member 
1 , Secretary , 

Department of Social 
Security or his representative . 

Member - Secretary 
2 . Sbri M . P . Bhargava , 

Commissioner (Cooperation ) , 
Ministry of Community 
Development & Cooperation , 

ORDER 
ORDERED that a copy of the notification be communicated 
to all concerned . 

ORDERED also that the notification bo published in the 
Gazette of India for general information . 

N . P . CHATTERJEE , Jt . Secy. 


( ii) to consider and suggest long term policies for the 

cxport of forest products , especially , Myrabolans, 

walnuts and mushrooms; 
( iii ) to recommend steps to be taken for increasing tho 

availability of forest products with spoclal rofcrenco 
to myrabolans , walouts and mushrooms for export 

purposes , and 
( iv ) to suggest specific schemes , with estimates of expon 

diture involved , for developing various forest pro 

ducts with an export potential. 
Tho Ad Hoc Committee will correspond directly with the 
State Government / Union Torritories / Central Ministries / 
Departments for obtaining such information / documents as 
may be necessary for its work and for arranging its tour pro 
grammes. It may also directly contact, if necessary , the 
roprescntatives of other organisations interested elther in the 
production or in the exports of forest products, 


ORDER 


ORDERED that a copy of the Resolution bo communicated 
to all the Stato Governments /Union Territorios , Ministries of 
tho Government of India . 


ORDERED that the Resolution be published in the Gazette of 
India for general information , 


G . R . KAMAT, Sccy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 24th November 1964 
No , F . 12 - 12 /64- C . 3 . - In partial NotiAcation of the orst 
while Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs 
Notification No . F . 12 - 1 /63 - C . 3 , dated 23 - 8 - 1963 Dr. Satya 
Prakash Srivastava , Director of Archaeology and Musoume, 
Government of Rajasthan has been appointed member of the 
Central Advisory Board of Museums upto 14 - 2 - 1966 as & 
nomince of the Government of Rajasthan vice Shri R , C . 
Aggarwala , Superintendent, Archaeology and Museum , 
Government of Rajasthan , Udaipur , 


G . VETHAKKAN , Asst. Educational Adviser 


New Delhi, the 25th November 1964 
No. F . 5 ( 24 ) / 63- SRI. - Under the provisions of Article 
89 ( 111 ) of tho Articles of Assoclation of the National Research 
Development Corporation of India , the President is pleased to 
appoint Shri K . N . Channa , Jolat Socretary to tho Govern 
ment of India , Ministry of Finance , Ag & Director of the 
Corporation vice Shn R , P . Padhi . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture) 
New Delhi, the 28th November 1964 

RESOLUTION 
No. 14 - 15 / 64 - EP . - O tho recommendation made by tho 
Estimates Committee in their 48th Report, the Government 
of India have decided to set up an Ad Hoc Committco with 
the following composition to go into tho problems connected 
with the export of forest products with special reference to 
Myrabolans, walnuts and mushrooms so that concerted 
measures may be taken to incrcase their exports : 

Chairman 
1 . Shri Hari Singh , 

Inspector General of Forests , 
Ministry of Food & Agriculture . 

Members 
2 . Shri R , T , Mirchandani. 

Agricultural Marketing Adviser, 

to the Govt. of India . 
3 . Director of Agriculturo , 

Himachal Pradesh Govergmont . 
4 . Chief Conservator of Forests , 

Jammu & Kashmir . 
5. Director of Agriculture , 

Jammu & Kashmir . 
6 . Shri F . C . Gera , 

Deputy Secretary , 
Ministry of Food & Agriculturo 

(Deptt. of Agriculturo ) . 
7 . Shri K , Srinivasan , 

Deputy Secretary , 

Ministry of Commerce. 
8 . Shri J . S . Matharu , 

Development Officer , 
Dte . General of Technical Dovelopmont, 
Ministry of Industry & Supply . 

Member-Secretary 
9. Shri S . L . Katyal, 

Assistant Agricultural Commissioner, 

I. C . A . R . 
The Ad Hoc Committee may co -opt or invite to its meet 
ings such other persons as could rendor useful assistance in 
its work , 

The terms of reference of tho Ad Hoc Committeo will be 
as under : 

(1 ) to estimate on the basis of avallablo material tho 

Availability of forest products with spoclal roteronco 
to myrabolans , walnots and mushrooms; 


H . K , L , CHADDHA , Under Socy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

(Transport Wing ) 
New Delhi, the 24th November 1964 

RESOLUTION 
No. 30 - T ( 4 ) /63, - Shri Y . $ . Kasbekar, Director of Trans 
port, Maharashtra , has been appointed a member of tho 
Study Group on Motor Vehicles Taxation reconstituted vide 
th s Ministry s Resolution No. 30 - T ( 4 ) / 63, dated the 8th July , 
1964 , vice Shri P , G Salvi, with effect from the 14th October, 
1964 . 

2, The Group will now submit its report by the 16th 
January , 1965 . 


ORDER 


ORDÞRED that a copy of the Resolution bo communicated 
to all concerned and that it be published in the Gazotto of 
India for general Information , 


A . S . DHATNAGAR , Dy, Secy , 


409 


PART I - SEO . 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 5, 1964 (AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1886 ) 


( 0 ) Filmstrips ( 35mm ) 
( i) President s Silver Medal for the best filmstrip . 
( ü ) All- India Certificates of Morit for the second and 

third best filmstrips. 
REGIONAL AWARDS 
( f ) President s Silver Medal for the best feature Alm in 

cach Indian language and Certificates of Merit for 
the two next best feature films in each such language . 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 
New Delhi, the 18th November 1964 

RESOLUTION 
No. 7 / 7 / 61- FBP In the Ministry of Irrigation and Power 
Rosolution No . 7 / 7 /61-GB / FBP , dated the 28th April 1961, 
49 amended by Resolutions No. 7 / 7 /61-GB /FBP , dated tho 
17th May, 1962, and No . 7 / 7 /61-GB / FBP , dated the 31st 
May , 1962 , and No , 7 / 7 / 61-GB / FBP , dated the 12th February , 
1964 and No . 7 / 7 / 61- FBP , dated the 7th April , 1964 , 
regarding the constitution of the Farakka Barrage Control 
Board , the following may be inserted after serial number ( 2 ) 
in paragraph 3 : 
" ( 3 ) Deputy Ministor of Irrigation and Power , 

Coverbiment of India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Member . 
2 . In paragraph 3 , the existing Serial numbers " ( 3 ) to ( 12 ) " 
may be renumbored as " (4 ) to ( 13 ) " . 

ORDER 
ORDERBD that tho above Resolution bo communicated to 
the State Governments , the Ministries of the Government of 
India , the Comptroller and Auditor General of India , tho 
Prime Minister s Secretariat, the Secretary to tho President 
and the Planning Commission for information , 

ORDERBD also that the Resolution be published in tho 
Gazette of India and the Government of West Bengal bo 
requested to publish the same in the State Gazetto for general 
information . 

V , NANJAPPA , Secy . 


Explanation 
The tormy producer and director used herein will be 
construed as referring to the producer or director, as the 
case may be, as given in thợ credit titles of tho film duly 
certified by the Central Board of Film Censors , 


2 . ( 2 ) Govorameat may, at its discretion , give the cash 
prizes in tho form of National Defonco Cortificates and 
Defenco Deposit Certificates or any other similar Certificates 
issued by the Government of India , 

3. The Awards will be made annually on a date to be 
fied by Government. 

4 . All lodian films certified for public exhibition by the 
Central Board of Film Censors and all filmstrips certified by 
the producers as produced in the preceding calendar yoar will 
be cligible for entry , which may be made by the producer or 
any other duly authorised person in the Form contained in 
the Schedule hereto uonexod . 

Provided that a film entered as a Children s Film shall not 
be eligiblo for entry as Feature film and vice versa . 

5 . Every application for entry, in respect of a feature film , 
shall bo accompanied by an entry fee of Rs. 100 which shall 
not be refundablo . 

Each ontrant will submit at his cost to such Regional 
Officor of tho Central Board of Film Censors or to any other 
authority as may be specified : 

( i ) a print of the film or the filmstrip as the caso may 

be; and 
(ii ) & copy of the synopsis , together with an English 

rendering thercof and a copy of tho songs, if any, 
togethor with their free translation in English or 
Hindi, 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

State Awards for Films 
New Delhi, the 21st November 1964 

RESOLUTION 
No . 7 / 19 / 64 - FI. - In supersession of the Resolution of tho 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No . 7 / 4 /63- FI, dated the 9th January 1963, the 
following rules aro notificd concorning Stato Awards for 


Films : 


The cntrant of a film sclected for viewing by the Central 
Committes will submit at his cost the specified number of 
copies of tho detailed dialogue script in English or Hindi as 
well as tho publicity material relating thereto in addition to 
the print and synopsis of the film , 


Rules 
1 . The object of the Stato Awards for Films is to encourago 
the production of films of a high acsthetic and technical 
standard and of ducational or cultuğal value . 

2 . ( 1 ) Tho following State Awards for Films have been 
instituted 
ALL - INDIA AWARDS 

( a ) Feature Films 
( i ) President s Gold Medal for the best film and a 

cash prizo of Rs, 20 , 000 to its producor and 

Rs. 5 , 000 to its director . 
( il ) All - India Certificate of Merit for the second best 

Alo and a cash prize of Rs . 10 ,000 to its producer 

and Rs. 2 , 500 to its director . 
( ii ) All -Indla Certificato of Merit for the third best film . 
( iv ) All - India Certificates of Merit for the best and 

second -best story -writers in rospect of tho featuro 
films entered for th¢ Awards and examined by the 
Committees of Awards , 

( b ) Documentary Films 
( 1) President s Gold Medal for the best Alm and a cash 

prizo of Rs. 4 , 000 to its producer and Rs. 1 , 000 to 

its director . 
( ii ) All- India Certificate of Merit for the second best 

Alm and a cash prize of Rs. 2 , 000 to its producor 

and Rs. 500 to its director. 
( iii ) All- India Certificate of Merit for the third best 
film . 

( c ) Children s Films 
( i) Prime Minister s Gold Medal for the best film and a 

cash prize of Rs, 20 , 000 to its producer and 

Rs. 5,000 to its director, 
( ii ) All- India Certificate of Merit for the second best 

film and a cash prize of Rs. 10 , 000 to its producer 

and Rs. 2 , 500 to its director , 
( ii ) AU - India Certificate of Merit for the third best 

film . 

( d ) Educational Films ( 16 mm only ) 
( 1 ) President s Gold Medal for the best film and 4 cash 

prize of Rs. 4, 000 to its producer and Rs . 1 , 000 

to its director . 
( ii ) All-India Certificates of Merit for the second and 

third best films. 
Note : - Tho torm educational film incans an educational 
film in 16 mm only and includes a scientific , instructional or 
experimontal film , 


6 . The decision of the Government of India whether a filin 
is eligible to be entered for the Awards and whether any film 
is a feature film , documentary film , educational film or 
childron s films for tho purpose of entry for the Awards will 
be final, 

The maximum length of a children s film for the purpose 
of entry for the Awards shall be 3400 metres in 35 mm or 
1360 metres in 16 mm . 

7 . A film which is a dubbed version , retake or an adap 
tation of a film which has already won a Stato Award , will 
not be eligible for consideration for the Awards . The Pro 
ducer of a film made in more than one language versions, 
may enter only one of the versions of that film . 

8 . Entries for the Awards will be invited by Governmont 
during a period to be notified , relaxablo in excoptional caso ! 
at the discretion of Goveroinent. 

9 . All transport costs on the consigament and return of tho 
films and publicity material will be payable by the entrant. 

10 . All films will be submitted at owner s risk and whilo 
tho Government will take overy reasonablo caro of the films 
submitted , it cannot accopt responsibility for loss or damage 
to the film whilo in its possession , 

11. There will be a Languago or Primary Committed con 
sisting of not more than 5 members, including the Chairman 
appointed by the Government, for each of thọ Languages 
indicated below : 

Hindi ( including Urdu and Hindustani) Marathi, Punjabi, 
Gujarati , Sindhi, English , Bengali, Assamoso , Oriya , 

Tamil , Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam , 
If the number of entries in a particulur language is not moro 
than 3, no Language or Primary Committee for that language 
will be constituted and such entries will be viewed direct by 
the Regional Committee concerned . The members, including 
the Chairman of the Primary Committees , will be nominated 
by Government and will consist of persons distinguished in the 
fields of art or literature who will be qualified to judgo the 
aesthetic and technical standard of the films, 

12 . Each languago or Primary Committee will recommend 
upto five foature Alms which have a high and Aesthetic and 
technical standard and educational or cultural value , srranged 
in order of merit, in the particular language for the considc 
TADOn of tho Regional Committee . 


410 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 5 , 1964 (AGRAHAYANA 14 , 1886 ) 


(Part 1 – Sec . I 


13 . The following Regional Committoos, appointod by 
Government, will examine feature films recommended by the 
Language or Primary Committees as well as the films in tho 
languages in which the number of entries is not more than 3 : 

( 1) Regional Committee at Bombay – Hindi ( including 

Urdu and Hindustani ), Marathi, Punjabi, Gujarati , 

Sindhi and English , 
( ii ) Regional Committee at Calcutta – Bengali , Assamese 

and Oriya, 
( iii ) Regional Committeç at Madras- - Tamil, Telugu , 

Kannada , and Malayalam , 
14 . Each Regional Committee will be composed of : 

( a ) A chairman , nominated by Government. 
( b ) Not more than 6 persons distinguished in the fields 
of art or literature , nominated by Government. 

(Care will be taken to ensure that all tho Lar 
guages of the region aro represented in the selection 

of thosc persons ) . 
( c ) Persons, not exceeding 3 , qualified to judge techni 

cal standard , presentation , direction and treatment 
values of films, nominated by Government from a 

panel of games representing tho industry . 
15 . The Regional Committees will recommend, in order of 
inerit : 
( 1 ) A list of not more than 4 feature films from the 

region , irrespective of their language, and 
( ii ) a list of 3 story writers 
for consideration by the Central Committee for All India 
Awards . 

16 . The Regional Committees will also recommend , to the 
Central Government, in order of merit : 

(i ) A list of the 3 best feature films in each language , 

in which no film has been recommended for an All 
Ladiu Award , for the award of the President s Silver 

Medal and the Regional Certificatos of Merit; and 
( li ) A list of 3 feature films, in addition to the films 

recommended for All India Awards in the remaining 

languages . 
17 . Tho documentary Alms entered for the Awards will be 
initially examined by a Documentary Committee appointed 
by Government with a membership pot exceeding five includ 
ing the Chairman . This Committee will recommend , in order 
of merit, up to six documentary films for consideration by the 
Central Committee . 

18 . The educational films and Almstrips entered for the 
Awards will be initially examined by an Educational Com 
mittec appointed by Government with a membership not 
exceeding five including the Chairman , The Committee will 
reconnend , in order of merit, up to six educational films and 
up to six filmstrips for consideration by the Central Com . 
mittee . 
19. The Central Committee will be composed of : 

( a ) A chalrman nominated by Government, 
( b ) Not more than six distinguished persons in the fields 

of art or literature nominated by Government, 


(3 ) Thrco best educational films for the All- India Awards , 
( 4 ) Three best filmstrips for the All- India Awards, 

( 5 ) Two best story -writers for All -India Awards. 
The Central Committee will also have the power to call for 
and view any picture not recommended by the Regional 
Committeo it they consider the picture to be of an outstanding 
Dature , deserving consideration for an Award , 

24 . ( 1 ) The Central Committee will , subject to the provi 
sions of sub -rulc ( 2 ) , also examine the children s films 
entered for the Awards and recommend the best threç films in 
Order of merit , 

( 2 ) If the number of entries in the category of children s 
films so warranis , Goveromçnt nay entrust the initial exami 
nation of films to the Documentary Committco or a Spocial 
Committee constituted for this purpose consisting of not moro 
than five members including the Chairman , which will recom 
mend, in order of merit , not more than six films for considera 
tion by the Central Committee . 

25 . The Language or Primary Committees , the Regional 
Comınittees , the Documentary Committee, the Educational 
Committee , the Special Committee for Children s Films ( it 
any ) and the Central Committee may determine their own 
procedure for the examination of films. 

26 . The quorum of the Central, Documentary, Educational, 
the Special Committeo ( if any ) for children s films, the 
Regional or the Language or Primary Committee , shall be half 
the total number of members including the co -opted members . 

27. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as ros 
tricting the discretion of a Language or Primary Committee , 
a Regional Committee , the Documentary Committeo , tho 
Educational Committee, the Special Committee for Children s 
Films ( if any ) or the Central Committee from making a 
recommendation that none of the films in a particular 
language or category , or that none of the stories of tho 
feature films, examined by Languago or Primary , a Regional 
Committee or the Central Committee , is of standard 
adequate for an Award . 

28 . The Central Government will decide the All - India and 
the Regional Awards on the basis of the recommendations 
submitted by the Central Committee and the Regional 
Committees 

29 . A film will be eligible for an Award only in one of 
the four categories viz ; feature , documentary , educational or 
children s film . Afcature film receiving an All - India Award 
shall not be eligiblo for a Regional Award . 

30 . The Language or Primary Committees, the Regional 
Committees, the Documentary Committee , the Educational 
Committee , the Special Committee for Children s Films ( if 
any ) and the Central Committee will examine films at guch 
place and time as may be considered feasible . 

31. Government shall be entitled to retain , without payment 
of cost, the print entered for the Awards of a film or film 
strip , which receives an Award in the form of a medal and / or 
cash . 

32 . The function for the presentation of the Awards will be 
held at such place and on such date as Government may 
determine 

33 , Canvassing in any form in respect of an entry will 
render that entry liable to disqualification for Awards . Any 
member of the Central Committee , Documentary Committce . 
Educational Committee, the Special Committee for Children s 
Films ( if any ) , the Regional Committees or the Languago or 
Primary Committees found canvassing for a particular film 
is liable to be disqualified for membership of the Committees 

SCHEDULE 

FORM 
For entry for the State Awards for Films 
( To be submitted in duplicate ) 

( See rule 4 ) 


presentation , direction and treatment values of Alms, 
nominated by Government from a panel of names 

representing the industry . 
20 . Notwithstanding anything contained in rules 14 and 19 , 
Government may co - opt on the Central or a Regional Com 
mittee such number of additional members as may , in its 
opinion , be considered necessary to ensure adequate avail 
ability of members knowing each language in which films are 
to be adjudged by such Committee . Purther, nothing con 
tained in rules 17 . 18 and 24 shall preclude co - option of an 
additional member or members to assist the Documentary 
Committee, Educational Committee or the Special Committee 
constituted for the initial examination of children s films. The 
members 80 co -opted shall have all the rights of an ordinary 
member . 

21. Membership of the Central, Documentary , Educational, 
Regional and Primary Committees and the Special Committee , 
if any, constituted for tho examination of children s films, 
will be honorary but the members may be allowed such 
travelling and conveyance allowances as may be sanctioned 
by Government from time to time. 

22 . The Central Committee and Regional Committees will 
have the power to call for and examine any film not recom 
mended by the Regional Committees or the Primary Com 
mittees and consider such film for an All -India or a Regional 


To 


the Central, ond the Specladren 
s films, 


The Regional Officer , 
Central Board of Film Censors, 
Bombay / Calcutta /Madras. 

ENTRY FOR STATE AWARDS FOR FILMS 


23 . The Central Committee will consider the recommenda 
tions of the Regional Committees, the Educational Committee 
and the Documentary Committee and recommend to the 
Central Government in order of merit : 

( 1) Three best feature films for the All- India Awards, 
(2 ) Thrçc best documentary films for the All - India 

Awards. 


( ü ) Whether Feature / Documentary /Educational /Child 

ren s Film , 
( iii ) Language of the film . 
( lv ) Length and guage of the Alm / Almstrip . 
( v ) Number of reels. 
(vi ) Colour of the film / filmstrip . 
( vii ) Name and full address of the producer (with 

telephone number and telegraphic address , if any ) . 
( viii ) Name and full address of the Director, 
( ix ) Name and full address of the Story Writer , 
( x ) Name and full address of the leading male Artist 

and leading female artist. 


PART I - SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 5, 1964 ( AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886) 


411 


( xi ) Numbor and date of Certificate of Exhibition imund 

by the Central Board of Film Consors , 
( xii ) Date of Relcase . 
2 . Please state whether the film is a dubbed version , an 
adaptation or a retake of another film . If so , give particulars 
of the film of which it is a dubbed version , an adaptation or 
A retake. 

3 . Where the person making the entry is not the producer, 
please state whether he has been duly authorised to make the 
entry . 

" I certify that the Alm is not a dubbed version , a retake 
or an adaptation of a film which has already won a 

State Award . 
" I certify that the filmstrip was produced during the 

year . . . . . . 
" I further certify that the statements made above are 

true to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
" I hereby agree to the Government retaining the print 

of the film/ filmstrip, without payment of cost , in the 
event of its receiving an Award in the form of a 
Medal and / or Cash. " 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

___ New Delhi, the 25th November 1964 
No . E & P . 4 / 1 / 30 / 64 . - Whereas there has been a change 
in the Chairmanship of the Central Board for Wokers Educa 
tion notified in the Ministry of Labour & Employment Noti 
fication No . E & P. 4 / 1 / 30 / 64 , dated the 28th July 1964, 
published in the Gazette of India Part I - Section 1, dated 
August 8 , 1964 ( Sravana 17 , 1886 ) , it is hereby notified for 
the information of the public that in pursuance of Rule 3 ( a ) 
of the Rules and Regulations of the said Board , the Govora 
ment of India hereby nominates Shri N . N , Chatterjee, Joint 
Secretary , Ministry of Labour & Employment ag Chairman of 
the said Board with effect from 21st November , 1964, vice 
Shri R , L , Mchta , Additional Secretary to the Government of 
India, Ministry of Labour & Employment . 


. . . . . . . 


____ 2 . In the Ministry of Labour & Employment Notification 

No . E & P . 4 ( 24 ) / 58, dated the 12th December , 1958 published 
in the Gazette of India Part I - Section 1 . dated December 20 . 
1958 / Agrahayana 29 , 1880 as amended from time to time , 
therefore, for the entry--- 


" 1 . Shri R . L . Mehta , 
Additional Secretary , 

Nominated by the 
Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of 
New Delhi. 

India . " 


Date : 
Place : 

Signature 

Address 
* Delete if not applicable. 

ORDER 
ORDERED that tho Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information , 

___ H. N. AGARWAL, Dy . Secy . 


The following shall be substituted :-- 
" 1. Shri N , N . Chatterjee, 
Joint Secretary , 

Nominated by the 
Ministry of Labour & Employment , Government of 
New Delhi. 

India ." 


____ A . K . PALIT , Under Secy . 


स्थान सरकार , उदयपुर के स्थान पर 14- 2- 1966 तक राजस्थान 
सरकार के मनोनीत की हैसियत से सेन्ट्रल एडवाइजरी बोर्ड आफ 
म्यूजियम का सदस्य नियुक्त किया जाता है । 

जी० वेथक्कन , सहायक शिक्षा सलाहकार 


सामुदायक विकास और सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

___ सहकारिता विभाग 

नई दिल्ली, दिनांक 28 नवम्बर 1964 
सं० 7- 8/ 62-कोर्ड /बी०सी० - - इस मंत्रालय के संकल्प 
संख्या 7- 8/ 62-कोर्ड, दिनांक 30 मार्च 1963 और उसमें बाद में 
किए गए संशोधनों का प्रसंग जारी रखते हुए नीचे दिए गए 
व्यक्तियों को श्रमिक ठेका तथा निर्माण सहकारी समितियों के 
राष्ट्रीय सलाहकार बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त किया जाता है: -- 

सदस्य 
( 1 ) सचिव , 

सामाजिक सुरक्षा विभाग 
अथवा उसका प्रतिनिधि 

__ सदस्य - सचिब 
( 2 ) श्री एम०पी० भार्गव , 

आयुक्त ( सहकारिता ), 
सामुदायिक विकास और 
सहकारिता मंत्रालय । 


आदेश दिया जाता है कि इस अधिसूचना की प्रति सभी 
संबंधित व्यक्तियों को भेजी जाए । 

यह भी आदेश दिया जाता है कि इस अधिसूचना को भा रस 
के राजपन में पाम जानकारी के लिए प्रकाशित किया जाय । 

___ एन० पी० चटर्जी, संयुक्त सचिव 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 
फिल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कार 
नई दिल्ली -1 , दिनांक 21 नवम्बर 1964 

__ संकल्प 
सं० 7/ 19/ 64-एफ० ( आई० ) - भारत सरकार के सूचना 
और प्रसारण मन्त्रालय के संकल्प संख्या 7/ 4/ 63- एफ० ( आई० ) , 
दिनांक 9 जनवरी 1963 का अधिक्रमण करते हुए, फ़िल्मों के लिए 
राजकीय पुरस्कार सम्बन्धी निम्नलिखित नियम अधिसूचित 
किए जाते हैं : 

नियम 
1. फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कार देने का उद्देश्य उच्च 
कलात्मक और तकनीकी स्तर की तथा शैक्षणिक या सांस्कृतिक 
महत्व की फ़िल्मों के निर्माण को प्रोत्साहित करना है । 
2( 1 ) , फ़िल्मों के लिए निम्नलिखित राजकीय पुरस्कार रखे 
गए है : 
अखिल भारतीय पुरस्कार 
( क ) रूपक चित्र ( फ़ी वर फ़िल्म ) 
( 1 ) सर्वोसम फ़िल्म के लिए राष्ट्रपति का स्वर्ण 

पदक और उसके निर्माता को 20,000 रुपये 
का तथा उसके निर्देशक को 5 , 000 रुपये का 

नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 2 ) दूसरे नंबर की फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल - भारतीय 

योग्यता प्रमाण पत्र और उसके निर्माता को 


शिक्षा मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 24 नवम्बर 1964 
सं० एफ -12- 12/ 64 सी0- 3-~- भूतपूर्व वैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान 
और सांस्कृतिक कार्यमंत्रालय अधिसूचना सं० एफ- 12-1 / 6 3 सी०.. 
3, दिनांक 2 3- 8 - 1963 की आंशिक अदलबदल में डा० सत्य प्रकाश 
श्रीवास्तव, पुरातत्व तथा संग्रहालय निदेशक , राजस्थान सरकार को 
श्री आर० सी० अग्रवाल, अर्धीक्षक , पुरातत्व तथा संग्रहालय , राज 


412 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA, DECEMBER 5 , 1964 ( AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886) 


PART I - SEC. 1 


10, 000 रु . का तथा उसके निर्देशक को 2, 500 

रुपये का नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 3 ) तीसरे नंबर की फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल -भारतीय 

योग्यता - प्रमाण -पत्र । 
( 4 ) पुरस्कार के लिए आई और पुरस्कार समितियों 

द्वारा देखी गई फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों के सर्वोत्तम और 
दूसरे नंबर के कहानी - लेखकों को अखिल 

भारतीय योग्यता प्रमाण-पत्र । 
( ख ) वृत्त चित्र ( डाकुमेंट्री फ़िल्में ) 


2. ( 2 ) सरकार चाहे तो नगव पुरस्कार, राष्ट्रीय रमा पनों 
और रक्षा जमा -पत्नों या भारत सरकार द्वारा जारी किए गए इस 
प्रकार के अन्य धन -पत्रों के रूप में दे सकेगी । । 

3. पुरस्कार सरकार द्वारा निश्चित तिथि पर प्रति वर्ष दिए 
जायेंगे । 

4 . केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म सेंसर बोर्ड द्वारा सार्वजनिक प्रदर्शन के 
लिए प्रमाणित सभी भारतीय फ़िल्में औरनिर्माताओं द्वारा प्रमाणित 
सभी फ़िल्मस्ट्रिमें जो पूर्वगामी कैलेंडर वर्ष में बनी होंगी , प्रति 
योगिता में सम्मिलित हो सकेंगी और निर्माता या अन्य कोई विधिवत् 
अधिकृत व्यक्ति संलगन अनुसूची में दिए गए फार्म में प्रविष्ट भेज 
सकेगा । 

बशर्ते जो फ़िल्म बाल चित्र के रूप में प्रविष्ट होगी वह फ़ीचर 
फ़िल्म के रूप में और जो फ़ीचर फ़िल्म के रूप में प्रविष्ट होगी, बह 
बाल चिव के रूप में प्रविष्ट नहीं हो सकेगी । 

5. फ़ीचर फ़िल्म की प्रविष्टि के लिए प्रत्येक आवेदन -पत्र 
के साथ 100 रुपया फीस भी भेजनी होगी जो वापिस नहीं की 
जायेगी । 

प्रत्येक प्रवेशक , केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के प्रादेशिक अधि 
कारी या किसी अन्य निर्दिष्ट अधिकारी को निम्नलिखित चीजें 
अपने खर्चे पर भेजेगा : - - 

( 1 ) फ़िल्म या फ़िल्म-स्ट्रिप की प्रिंट ; और 


पदक और उसके निर्माता को 4, 000 रुपये का 
तथा उसके निर्देशक को 1, 000 रुपये का नगद 

पुरस्कार । 
( 2 ) दूसरे नंबर की फिल्म के लिए अखिल -भारतीय 

योग्यता प्रमाण -पत्र और उसके निर्माता को 
2, 000 रुपये का सया उसके निर्देशक को 500 

रुपये का नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 3 ) तीसरे नंबर की फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल -भारतीय 

योग्यता प्रमाण- पत्र । 
( ग ) बाल चित्र 
( 1 ) सर्वोत्तम फ़िल्म के लिए प्रधान मन्त्री का स्वर्ण 

परक और उसके निर्माता को 20, 000 रुपये 
का तया उसके निर्देशक को 5, 000 रुपये 

का नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 2 ) दूसरे नंबर की फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल -भारतीय 

योग्यता प्रमाण-पत्र और उसके निर्माता को 
10, 000 रुपये का तथा उसके निर्देशक को 

2, 500 रुपये का नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 3 ) तीसरे नंबर की फ़िल्म के लिए अखिल- भारतीय 

योग्यता प्रमाण-पत्र 
( घ ) शैक्षणिक चित्र ( केवल 16 मिलिमीटर ) 
( 1 ) सर्वोसम फ़िल्म के लिए राष्ट्रपति का स्वर्ण 

पदक और उसके निर्माता को 4, 000 रुपये 
का तथा उसके निदेशक को 1 , 000 रुपये का 

नगद पुरस्कार । 
( 2 ) दूसरे और तीसरे नंबर की फिल्मों के लिए 

अखिल - भारतीय योग्यता प्रमाण-पत्र । 
नोट : -- यहां पर " शैक्षणिक फ़िल्म " का अर्थ केवल 16 मिलि 

मीटर की शैक्षणिक फ़िल्म से है और इसमें वैज्ञानिक , 

शिक्षात्मक या प्रयोगात्मक फ़िल्में भी शामिल है । 
( क ) फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप ( 35 मिलिमीटर ) 
( 1 ) सर्वोत्तम फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप के लिए राष्ट्रपति का 

रजत पदक । 
( 2 ) दूसरे और तीसरे नंबर की फ़िल्मस्ट्रिपों के 

लिए अखिल -भारतीय योग्यता प्रमाण-पत्र । 
प्रादेशिक पुरस्कार 
( च ) प्रत्येक भारतीय भाषा की सर्वोत्तम फ़ीचर फ़िल्म के 

लिए राष्ट्रपति का रजत-पदफ और दूसरे और तीसरे 
नंबर की फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों के लिए योग्यता -प्रमाण-पत्र । 

स्पष्टीकरण 
यहाँ पर निर्माता तथा निर्देशक शम्दों से अभिप्राय क्रमशः 
उस निर्माता या निर्देशक से होगा जिनके नामों का उल्लेख केन्द्रीय 
फ़िल्म सेंसर बोर्ड द्वारा विधिवत् प्रमाणित फिल्म के शीर्षकों में 
होगा । 


और यदि गाने हों तो अंग्रेजी या हिन्दी में भावानुवाद 

के साथ एक प्रति । 
केन्द्रीय समिति के देखने के लिए खुमी गई फ़िल्म के प्रवेशक को 
मपने बर्षे पर फ़िल्म की प्रिंट और रूपरेखा के अतिरिक्त अंग्रेजी 
या हिन्दी में , निर्धारित संख्या में , विस्तृत कथोपकथन की प्रतियां 
और फ़िल्म से सम्बन्धित प्रचार सामग्री भी भेजनी होगी । 

8. कोई फ़िल्म पुरस्कारों के लिए प्रविष्टि के योग्य है या नहीं 
गौर कोई फ़िल्म रूपक चित्र है या वृत्त चित्र या शैक्षणिक या बाल 
चि है इस संबंध में भारत सरकार का निर्णय अन्तिम होगा । 

प्रविष्टि के लिए बाल -चित्रों की अधिकतम लम्बाई 35 मि . 
मी० में 3, 400 मीटर या 16 मि० मी० में 1, 360 मीटर होगी । 

7. यदि कोई फ़िल्म किसी ऐसी फ़िल्म का डब ( भाषांतर) , 
रि-टेक या रूपान्तर है, जो पहले राजकीय पुरस्कार पा चुकी हो , 
तो पुरस्कारार्य उस पर विचार नहीं होगा । यदि किसी फ़िल्म के 
एक से अधिक भाषाओं में रूपांतर हों , तो उसका निर्माता , उस 
फिल्म का केवल एक ही भाषा में रूपान्तर प्रविष्ट कर 
सकेगा । 

8. पुरस्कारों के लिए प्रविष्टियों की तारीख सरकार द्वारा 
अधिसूचित की जायेगी और अपवाद स्वरूप ही सरकार की मर्जी 
पर उस में छूट दी जा सकेगी । 

9 . फ़िल्मों और प्रचार सामग्री के लाने ले जाने पर जो वर्ष 
होगा , वह सारा प्रवेशक को देना होगा । 
___ 10. सभी फिल्में मालिक के जोखिम पर भेजी जायेंगी और 
यद्यपि सरकार उन सभी फ़िल्मों की समुचित देखभाल करेगी , 
फिर भी उसके पास रहते समय किसी फिल्म के गुम या खराब 
हो जाने की जिम्मेवारी सरकार पर नहीं होगी । 

11. नीचे दी गई प्रत्येक भाषा के लिए एक भाषा या प्राथमिक 
समिति होगी जिसमें अध्यक्ष सहित अधिक से अधिक 5 सदस्य 
होंगे, जो सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त किए जायेंगे : 

हिन्दी ( उर्दू और हिन्दुस्तानी सहित ), मराठी, पंजाबी , 
गुजराती , सिंधी, अंग्रेजी, बंगला, असमिया , उड़िया , तमिल , 
तेलुगु , कन्नड़ और मलयालम । 


PART 1 - SEC. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 5, 1964 , ( AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886 ) 


413 


T 


- 


. । 


यदि किसी भाषा विशेष में प्रविष्टियों की संख्या तीन से मधिक नहीं 
होगी , तो उस भाषा विषयक कोई भाषा या प्राथमिक समिति 
गठित नहीं की जायगी और ये फ़िल्में सीधी सम्बन्धित प्रादेशिक 
समिति द्वारा देखी जायेंगी । अध्यक्ष सहित , प्राथमिक समितियों के 
सवस्य , सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त किए जायगे जो कला या साहित्य क्षेत्र 
में प्रतिष्ठित होंगे पौर जिनमें फ़िल्मों के कलात्मक मौर तकनीकी 
स्तर की जांच करने की योग्यता होगी । 
____ 12. प्रत्येक भाषा या प्राथमिक समिति, प्रादेशिक समिति के 
विचारार्थ, श्रेष्ठताक्रम से, भाषा विशेष की अधिक से अधिक 
पाच फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों तक की सिफारिश करेगी जो उच्च कलात्मक 
और तकनीकी स्तर की तथा शैक्षणिक और सांस्कृतिक महत्व 
की होंगी । 

13. सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त निम्नलिखित प्रादेशिक समितियां , 
भाषा या प्राथमिक समितियों द्वारा सिफारिश की गई फ़ीचर फिल्मों 
की तथा उन भाषाओं की फ़िल्मों की परीक्षा करेंगी, जिन में प्रविष्टियों 
की संख्या तीन से अधिक नहीं होंगी : --- 
( 1 ) प्रादेशिक समिति , बम्बई - -हिन्दी ( उर्दू और हिन्दु 

स्तानी सहित ) , मराठी, पंजाबी, गुजराती , सिंधी 

और अंग्रजी । 
( 3 ) प्रादेशिक समिति, कलकत्ता - बंगला , असमिया और 

उड़िया । 
( 3 ) प्रादेशिक समिति , मद्रास-- - तमिल , तेलुगु , कन्नड़ 

और मलयालम । 
14. प्रत्येक प्रादेशिक समिति का गठम इस प्रकार होगा : 
( क ) सरकार द्वारा मामजद एक अध्यक्ष । 
( ब ) सरकार द्वारा नामजद कला या साहित्य क्षेत्र में प्रति 

ष्ठित अधिक -से - अधिक 6 व्यक्ति । इन व्यक्तियों 
को चुनने में इस बात का ध्यान रखा जायगा कि क्षेत्र 

की सभी भाषाओं को प्रतिनिधित्व मिल सके । 
( ग ) फ़िल्मों के तकनीकी स्तर , प्रस्तुति, निर्देशन और 

विषय प्रतिपावन परखने की योग्यता घाले अधिक 
से - अधिक तीन व्यक्ति, जो उद्योग का प्रतिनिधित्व 
करने वाले व्यक्तियों की सूची में से सरकार द्वारा 

मामजद किए जायेंगे । 
15. प्रादेशिक समितियां , अखिल भारतीय पुरस्कार के लिए 
नियुक्त केन्द्रीय समिति के विचारार्थ, श्रेष्ठता क्रम से : 
( 1 ) भाषा का विचार किए बिना प्रदेश से अधिक - से - अधिक 

चार फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों की सूची ; और 
( 2 ) तीन कहानी - लेखकों की सूची 
प्रस्तुत करेंगी । 
16. प्रादेशिक समितियां , केन्द्रीय सरकार को : 
( 1 ) प्रत्येक ऐसी भाषा की श्रेष्ठता क्रम से तीन सर्वोत्तम 

फीचर फ़िल्मों की सूची , जिसमें किसी फ़िल्म को अखिल 
भारतीय पुरस्कार, राष्ट्रपति के रजत पदक भोर 
प्रादेशिक योग्यता-प्रमाण-पत्र के लिए म पनी गमी 

हो ; और 
( 2 ) अखिल भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए चुमी फ़िल्मों के 

अलावा, शेष भाषाओं की , श्रेष्ठता क्रम से, तीन 

फीचर फिल्मों की सूची 
प्रस्तुत करेंगी । 

17. पुरस्कारार्थ प्रविष्ट डाकुमेंट्री फ़िल्मों की आरम्भिक 
परच परकार द्वारा नियुक्त शकुमेंट्री समिति करेगी जिसमें अध्यक्ष 
को मिलाकर 5 से अधिक सदस्य नहीं होंगे । यह समिति 
केन्द्रीय समिति के विचारार्थ, श्रेष्ठता क्रम से , छ: गकुमेंट्री फ़िल्मों 
तक की सिफारिश करेगी । 

18. पुरस्कारार्थ प्रविष्ट शैक्षणिक चित्रों और फिल्म स्ट्रिपों 
की मारम्भिक परत सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त शैक्षणिक समिति करेगी 
जिसमें प्रत्यक्ष को मिलाकर 5 से अधिक सदस्य नहीं होंगे । यह 
पमिति , क्षेत्रीय समिति के विचारार्थ, श्रेष्ठता कम से, छ : शैक्षणिक 
पिनों मोर छ: फिल्म स्ट्रिपों तक की सिफारिश करेगी । 


19. पलीय समिति का गठन इस प्रकार होगा : 
( स ) सरकार द्वारा नामपर एक अध्यक्ष । 
( प ) सरकार द्वारा नामजद कला या साहित्य क्षेत्र में प्रति 

ष्ठित अधिक - से - अधिक 6 व्यक्ति । 
( ग ) फिल्मों की प्रस्तुति , निर्देशन और विषय प्रतिपावन 

की परख की योग्यता रखने वाले अधिक - से- अधिक 
तीन व्यक्ति जो उद्योग का प्रतिनिधित्व करने वाले 
व्यक्तियों की सूची में से सरकार द्वारा मामजद 

किए जायेंगे । 
20, नियम 14 और 19 के बावजूद , सरकार केन्द्रीय व 
प्रादेशिक समितियों में इतने सदस्यों को सहयोजित कर सकेगी , 
जितने, उसके विचार में इस बात के लिए आवश्यक होंगे कि समिति 
को जिन -जिन भाषाओं की फ़िल्मों की जांच करनी है, उसमें उन सब 
भाषामों के जानने वाले सदस्यों की पर्याप्त संख्या हो जाए । नियम , 
17, 18 और 24 की कोई बात शकुमेंट्री समिति , शैक्षणिक 
समिति या बाल-चित्रों की आरम्भिक जांच के लिए गठित विशेष 
समिति को सहायता देने के लिए अतिरिक्त सदस्य या सदस्यों के 
सहयोजन को नहीं रोकेगी । इस प्रकार से सहयोणित सदस्यों को 
माधारण सदस्यों के सभी अधिकार प्राप्त होंगे । 

21. केन्दीय , डाकुमेंट्री, शैक्षणिक , प्रादेशिक और प्राथमिक 
पमितियों और बाल -चित्रों की जांच के लिए बनी विशेष समिति 
( पदि कोई हो ) की सदस्यता अवैतनिक होगी , लेकिन सवस्यों 
को सरकार द्वारा समय- समय पर मंजूर सफ़र मोर सवारी भत्ते 
दिए जायेंगे । 

22. केन्द्रीय समिति और प्रादेशिक समितियों को यह अधि 
कार होगा कि वे अखिल भारतीय या प्रादेशिक पुरस्कार के लिए 
ऐसी किसी भी फिल्म को , जिसकी प्रादेशिक समितियों या प्राय 
मिक समितियों द्वारा सिफारिश न की गई हो , मंगा कर उसकी 
परीक्षा करें और अखिल भारतीय या प्रादेशिक पुरस्कार के लिए 
उस पर विचार करें । 

23. केन्द्रीय समिति , प्रादेशिक समितियों , शैक्षणिक समिति 
और गारमेंट्री समिति की सिफारिशों पर विचार करके , श्रेष्ठता 
क्रम से, केन्द्रीय सरकार को निम्नलिखित सिफ़ारिशें करेगी : -- 
( 1 ) बचिल-भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए तीन सर्वोत्तम 

क्रीचर फ़िल्में । 
( 2) अखिल -भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए तीन सर्वोत्तम 

गकुमेंट्री फ़िल्में । 
( 3 ) अखिल -भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए तीन सर्वोत्तम 

शैक्षणिक फ़िल्में । 
अखिल-भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए सौन पर्वोत्तम 

फ़िल्म स्ट्रिपें । 
( 5 ) अखिल -भारतीय पुरस्कारों के लिए वो सर्वोत्तम 

कहानी- लेखक । 
यदि किसी एसी फिल्म के बारे में , जिसकी प्रादेशिक समिति द्वारा 
सिफारिश न की गई हो , केन्द्रीय समिति यह समझे कि यह महत 
अच्छी है और पुरस्कारार्थ विचार किए जाने योग्य है , तो उसे 
अधिकार होगा कि यह उसको मंगा कर देखे । 

24( 1 ) उप -नियम ( 2 ) के अधीन केन्द्रीय समिति पुरस्कारों 
के लिए प्रविष्ट बाल -चित्रों की भी परख करेगी और श्रेष्ठता क्रम 
से , तीन सर्वोत्तम फ़िल्मों की सिफारिश करेगी । 
( 2 ) यदि बाल- चित्रों की प्रविष्टियों की संख्या काफी 

मधिक हो , तो सरकार फ़िल्मों की भारम्भिक परख 
का काम गकुमेंट्री समिति या इस उद्देश्य के लिए 
गठित विशेष समिति को सौंप सकती है , जिसमें 
अध्यक्ष को मिलाकर पांच से अधिक सवस्य न होंगे । 


414 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 5 , 1964 ( AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886 ) 


[ PART I --- SEC . 1 


ये समिसियां , श्रेष्ठता क्रम से , अधिम - से - अधिक छ: 

फ़िल्में केन्द्रीय समिति के विचारार्थ चुनेंगी । 
25. भाषा या प्राथमिक समितियां , प्रादेशिक समितियां , 
राकुमेंट्री समिति , शैक्षणिक समिति और बाल-चित्रों के लिए बनी 
विशेष समिति ( यदि कोई हो ) और केन्द्रीय समिति फ़िल्मों की 
परख की , अपनी कार्य-विधि स्वयं निश्चित करेंगी । 

26. केन्द्रीय , डाकुमेंट्री, शैक्षणिक , बाल-चिन्नों के लिए बनी 
विशेष समिति ( यदि कोई हो ) प्रादेशिक समिति या भाषा या 
प्राथमिक समिति का कोरम सहयोजित सदस्यों को मिला कर , 
सदस्यों की कुल संख्या का आधा होगा । 
___ 27. इन नियमों में निहित कोई बात भाषा या प्राथमिक 
समिति , प्रादेशिक समिति , डाकुमेंट्री समिति , शैक्षणिक समिति , 
बाल -चित्रों के लिए बनी विशेष समिति ( यदि कोई हो ) या केन्द्रीय 
समिति के लिए यह सिफ़ारिश करने में बाधक नहीं होगी कि किसी 
विशेष भाषा या श्रेणी की फ़िल्मों में से एक भी फ़िल्म या किसी 
भाषा या प्राथमिक समिति , प्रादेशिक समिति या केन्द्रीय समिति 
द्वारा परखी फ़ीचर फ़िल्मों की कहानियों में से एक भी कहानी 
पुरस्कार के लिए समुचित स्तर की नहीं है । 

28. केन्द्रीय सरकार , केन्द्रीय समिति और प्रादेशिक समितियों 
की सिफारिशों के आधार पर, अखिल - भारतीय और प्रादेशिक 
पुरस्कारों का निर्णय करेगी । 

29. एक फ़िल्म फ़ीचर , डाकुमेंट्री, शैक्षणिक या बाल 
चित्रों , इन चार श्रेणियों में से एक ही के लिए पुरस्कार के योग्य 
होगी । अखिल -भारतीय पुरस्कार प्राप्त करने वाली फ़ीचर फ़िल्म 
प्रादेशिक पुरस्कार नहीं पा सकेगी । 

30. भाषा या प्राथमिक समितियों , प्रादेशिक समितियां, 
माकुमेंट्री समिति , शैक्षणिक समिति , बाल - चिन्नों के लिए बनी 
विशेष समिति ( यदि कोई हो ) और केन्द्रीय समिति ऐसे स्थान 
और समय पर फ़िल्मों की जांच करेंगी, जिसे वे सुविधाजनक 
समझें । 

31. सरकार को यह अधिकार होगा कि वह पुरस्कार के लिए 
प्रविष्ट उस फ़िल्म या फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप की प्रिंट को जिसे पदक और 
या नगर के रूप में कोई पुरस्कार मिला हो , बिना किसी मूल्य के 
अपने पास रख सके । 

32. पुरस्कार वितरण समारोह सरकार द्वारा निर्धारित 
जगह और तिथि पर होगा । 

33. यदि किसी प्रविष्ट फ़िल्म के पक्ष में किसी भी प्रकार 
की कोई कोशिश पैरवी होगी तो यह पुरस्कार के अयोग्य ठहरा 
दी जायगी । यदि केन्द्रीय समिति , डाकुमेंट्री समिति , शैक्षणिक , 
समिति , बाल-चित्रों के लिए बनी विशेष समिति ( यदि कोई हो ) 
प्रादेशिक समितियों या भाषा या प्राथमिक समितियों का कोई 
सदस्य किसी विशेष फ़िल्म के लिए कोशिश पैरवी करता हुआ 
पाया गया , तो वह समितियों की सदस्यता के लिए अयोग्य घोषित 
किया जा सकेगा । 

अनसूची 

फार्म 
(फ़िल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कारार्थ प्रविष्टि के लिए 

दो प्रतियां भेजनी हैं ) 

( नियम 4 को दखें ) 
सेवा में , 

प्रादेशिक अधिकारी , 
केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म सेंसर बोर्ड, 

बम्बई कलकत्ता /मद्रास । 
फिल्मों के लिए राजकीय पुरस्कारार्थ प्रविष्टि 
1 . ( 1 ) फ़िल्म /फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप का शीर्षक । 

( 2 ) क्या यह फ़ीचर / डाकुमेंट्री/ शैक्षणिक बाल-चित्र 


( 3 ) फिल्म की भाषा । 
( 4 ) फ़िल्म/फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप की लम्बाई और गेज 
( 5 ) रीलों की संख्या । 
( 6 ) फ़िल्म फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप का रंग । 
( 7 ) निर्माता का नाम और पूरा पता 

( यदि हो तो टेलीफोन नं . और तार के पते 

के साथ ) 
( 8 ) निर्देशक का नाम और पूरा पता । 
( 9 ) कहानी - लेखक का नाम और पूरा पता । 
( 10 ) नायक व नायिका के नाम और पूरे पते । 
( 11 ) केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म सेंसर बोर्ड द्वारा जारी किए गए 

प्रदर्शन -प्रमाण - पत्न की संख्या और तिथि । 
( 12 ) रिलीज़ की तिथि । 
2 . कृपया लिखें कि क्या फ़िल्म किसी दूसरी फिल्म का उम 
किया हुआ रूप , रूपान्तर या रि -टेक है । यदि हां , तो जिस फ़िल्म 
का यह डब किया हुआ रूप , रूपान्तर या रि -टेक है , उसका व्यौरा दें । 

3. यदि प्रविष्टि भेजने वाला व्यक्ति निर्माता नहीं है, तो 
लिखें कि क्या वह प्रविष्टि भेजने के लिए विधिवत् अधिकृत है ? 
__ _ * " मैं प्रमाणित करता हूं कि यह फ़िल्म किसी ऐसी फ़िल्म का 
डब किया हुआ रूप , रूपान्तर या रि - टेक नहीं है जो पहले राजकीय 
पुरस्कार पा चुकी है । 
___ * "मैं प्रमाणित करता हूं कि यह फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप सन् . . . . . . . 
में बनायी गयी थी । 

मैं यह भी प्रमाणित करता हूँ कि उपरोक्त कथन मेरी 
पूरी जानकारी और विश्वास के अनुसार सच है । 
___ " मैं यह स्वीकार करता हूं कि यदि इस फ़िल्म फ़िल्मस्ट्रिप 

को पदक और/ या नगद के रूप में कोई पुरस्कार मिले , तो सरकार 
बिना किसी मूल्य के इस की प्रिंट रख सकेगी । " 


दिनांक : 


हस्ताक्षर 


स्थान : 


पता : 
* जो लागू न हो उसको काट दें 


मावेश 


आदेश दिया जाता है कि यह संकल्प सर्व-साधारण के 
सूचनार्थ भारत के राजपत्र में प्रकाशित किया जाए । 

हृदय नारायण अग्रवाल , उप - सचिव 


श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 26 अक्तूबर 1964 

संकल्प 
सं० W B- 16( 11)/ 64 - भारत सरकार ने अपने संकल्प 
सं० W B- 16 ( 1 )/ 62, तारीख 10 अगस्त 1962 द्वारा , 
जिसका संकल्प सं० W B- 16 ( 1 )/ 62 , तारीख 17 अक्तूबर 
1962 धारा संशोधन किया गया है, कोयला खान उद्योग के लिए 
मजदूरी गोर की स्थापना की थी । कोयला खान सम्बन्धित विपक्षीय 
औद्योगिक समिति ने 10- 11 अगस्त 1964 को कलकत्ता में हुए 
अपने नौवें अधिवेशन में सिफारिश की है कि कोयला खान उद्योग 
के मजदूरी बोर्ड से यह विशिष्ट प्रार्थना की जानी चाहिए कि वह 
हाजिरी बोनस देने की वर्तमान पद्धति का पुनर्विलोकन करे और 
ऐसे संशोधन सुझाए जिन्हें वह आवश्यक और वांछनीय समाते । 
उक्त सिफारिश के अनुसार भारत सरकार ने 10 अगस्त 1984 
के संकल्प के पैरा 3 में दी गई मजदूरी बोर्ड के विचारा विषय 


PART I - SRO. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA, DECEMBER 5, 1964 ( AGRAHAYANA 14, 1886 ) 


415 


की सूची में एक नया खंड जो कि नीचे दिया गया है, जोड़ने 
का निश्चय किया है :-- - 

" ( 0 ) हाजिरी बोनस देने की वर्तमान पद्धति का पुनविलोकन 
करना और ऐसे संशोधन सुझाना जिन्हें वह आवश्यक और 
वांछनीय समझे । " 

आवेश 
आदेश दिया जाता है कि इस संकल्प की प्रति सभी संबंधित 
व्यक्तियों को भेजी जायें । 

यह भी आदेश दिया जाता है कि इस संकल्प को भारत के 
राजपत्र में आम सूचना के लिये प्रकाशित किया जाय । 

पी० एम० मेनन , सचिव 


है कि उक्त बोर्ड के नियमों और विनियमों के नियम 3( ए . ) के 
अनुमार , भारत सरकार एतद्वारा श्री एन० एन० चटर्जी, संयुक्त 
मचिव , श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय , को 21 नवम्बर 1964 से 
श्री आर . एल . मेहता , अतिरिक्त सचिव , श्रम और रोजगार 
मंत्रालय के स्थान पर उक्त बोर्ड का अध्यक्ष नामित करती है । 

2. अत : 20 दिसम्बर 1958/ 29 अग्रहायन 1880 के 
भारतीय राजपत्र के भाग 1, अनुभाग 1 में प्रकाशित श्रम और 
रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० ई० एण्ड पी० 4 ( 24 )/ 58 
दिनांक 12 दिसम्बर 1958 ( ममय -समय पर संशोधित ) में 
निविष्ट प्रविष्टि 
" 1 --- आर० एल० मेहता 

अतिरिक्त मचिय , 
श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय भारत सरकार द्वारा नामित 

नई दिल्ली । " 
के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित को रखा जाय : -- -- 
" 1 - श्री एन० एन० चटर्जी 

संयुक्त सचिव , 
श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय , भारत सरकार द्वारा नामित 
नई दिल्ली । " 

अशोक कुमार पालित , अवर सचिव 


नई दिल्ली, दिनांक 25 नवम्बर 1964 
सं० ई० एण्ड पी० 4 /1/ 30/ 64 -~- चूंकि अगस्त 8, 1964/ 
श्रावण 17 1886 के भारतीय राजपत्र के भाग 1, अनुभाग 1 में 
प्रकाशित श्रम और रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० ई० एण्ड 
पी० 4 /1 / 30 / 64 दिनांक 28 जुलाई 1964 में अधिसूचित केन्द्रीय 
मजदूर शिक्षा बोर्ड में अध्यक्ष के बारे में परिवर्तन किया गया है, 
इमलिये जनता की सूचना के लिए एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRBAS , 
FARIDABAD AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DILHI , 1964 


