HEGD . No. D -232 


* 


* A 


* m - * 


waMina 
LI 


cpte ( fynzzttt of < 3ndia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 11, 1964/PAUSA 21 , 1885 


No . 2 ] 


1963. 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 31st December 1963 : 
Issue No. and Date Issued by 

Subject 
No. 
199 No . 37/1/ 1/63 /T, dated 23rd Dec. Lok Sabhn Secretariat, 

The President prorogues the Lok Sabha . 
1963. 
HOUT 37/ 1 / 6 /63 /eto ferita लोक सभा सचिवालय 

राष्ट्रपति लोक सभा का सत्राखान करते हैं । 
23 TOTT ? 1963 
200 No . 156 -ITC (PN )/63, dated 23rd Dec. Ministry of International Trade . U .S . AID Programme — Chartering of 
1963. 

Ocean Vessel and embargo on certain 
vessels for transport of AID financial 

goods. 
201 No. 157- ITC (PN )/63 , dated 23rd Dec. 

Detention of the items imitation /real 
1963. 

zari, embroidered and woven articles 
of imitation /real zari and brocades there 
of from the purview of the special Export 

Promotion Schemo for Handicrafts. 
202 No. PN (U . K . Licensing)/! of 1964, 

Scheme for licensing of cotton textiles for 
. dated 24th December 1963, 

export to the U . K . from India — Quota 

for 1964. 
203 No. PN (U .K . Licensing )/2 of 1964. 

Scheme for the licensing of export* of 

cotton yarn from India to tho U . K , 

for the year 1964. 
204 No . 158-ITC (PN )/63 Dated 26th Dec. 

Do. 

Export promotion - Enhancement of import 

entitlement for export of Lemongrass oil. 
205 No. R . S . 1/4 /63-L dated 27th Dec . 1963. Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 

The President prorogues the Rajya Sabha. 
206 No . 159 - 1TC ( PN )/ 63 dated 27th Dec . Ministry of International Trade . 

Import of machinery , components thereof 
1963. 

equipment, other commodities and raw 
materials from the U . S . A . under the 

U . S . AID Loan No . 082 . 
207 NO . R .S . 1 /4 /64 - L dated 30th Dec . Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 

The President summoning the Rajya Sabha 
1963 . 

to meet on 10th Feb . 1964 . 
208 No . 37/1/VH / 3/T dated 30th Dec. Lok Sabha Secretariat . 

The President summoning the Lok Sabha 
. 1963. 

to meet on 10th Feb . 1964. 
per 37 /1 /7 /63/& fic लोक सभा सचिवालय 

for a HT « Pt 10 qj^ TO 1984 
30 ftRtwrc 1963 

को बैठक के लिए पामंतित्र करते । 
209 No. 18 /63 dated 31st , Dec. 1963. Ministry of International Trade . Import Trade Control — Open General Li 

cence No . LXXV . 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications , Civil 
Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submitted BO at to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of tb « o 
Gazettes . 

CONTENTS 

PAOEB 
PAW SECTION 1. — Notifications relating to Non 

PART II — SECTION 3. — SUB - SECTION ( ii ). — Statutory 
Statutory Rules , Regulations and Orders 

Orders and Notifications Issued by the 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries 

Ministries of the Government of India 
of the Government of India ( other 

(other than the Ministry of Defence ) and 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and 

by Central Authorities (other than tho 
by the Supreme Court . . . . . 

Administrations of Union Territories) .. 
PART - SECTION 2 . — Notifications regarding 

PART II — SECTION 4 , — Statutory Rules and Orden 
Appointments , Promotions, Leave , etc., 

notified by the Ministry of Defence .. 
of Government Officers issued by the 

PART III — SECTION 1. — Notifications issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India 

Auditor General, Union Public Service 
( other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

Commission , Railway Administration , 
and by the Supreme Court . . . 

High Courts and the Attached and Sub 

ordinate Offices of the Government of 
PAMT ESECTION 3. — Notifications relating to 

India ,. . . . . . . . . 
Non - Statutory Rules , Regulations , 
Orders and Resolutions, Issued by the 

PART III — SECTION 2 . — Notifications and Notices 
Ministry of Defence . . . . . . 

issued by the Patent Office , Calcutta 

PART HI - SECTION 3 . — Notifications Issued by or 
PAET SECTION 4 . — Notifications regarding 

under the authority of Chief Commis 
Appointments, Promotions, Leave , etc . , 

sioners. . . . . . . . . 
of Officers issued by the Ministry of 

PART in — SECTION 4 . — Miscellaneous Notifications 
Defence . . . . . . . . . . 

Including Notifications, Orders , Advertise 
PART II — SECTION 1. - Acts , Ordinances and 

ments and Notices issued by Statutory 
Regulations . . . . . . . . 

Bodies g. - . . . . . 
PART II — SECTION 2 . - Bills and Reports of Select 

PARTIV – Advertisements and Notices by Private 
Committees on Bills 

Individuals and Private Bodies . .. 
PART IT — SECTION 3. — SUB -SECTION (0 . — General 

SUPPLEMENT NO . 2 — 
Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye 

Weekly Epidemlological Reports for week -ending 
laws, etc . of a general character ) issued by 

4th January 1964 
the Ministries of the Government of India 

Births and Deaths from Principal diseases in towns 
(other than tbe Ministry of Defence ) and 

with a population of 30 ,000 and over in 
by Central Authorities ( other than the 
Administrations of Union Territories ) .. 63 

India during week -ending 14th Decem 
ber 1963. . . . . . . . . 33 


PAOH 


M /O207GI/63 


( 5 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11, 1964 /PAUSA 21, 1885 


[PART I- Sec. I 


PART I - SECTTON 1 
Notificafjons relating to Non -Statutory Rules , .Regulations and Orders and Resolutions 
issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) 

and by the Supreme Court 


PRESIDENTS SECRETARIAT, 

New Delhi, the 1st January 1964 
No. 1- Pres./64. — The President is pleased to approve the 
award of the MAHA VIR CHAKRA for acts of gallantry 
to : — 

1 . Second Lieutenant BHAGWAN OUTT DOGRA 

( IC - 13176 ), The Gorkha Rifle ?. 

{Effective date of award — 20th October 1962) 
On 20th October 1962, at dawn , after heavy bombardment, 
Chines© forces attacked the left flank of the position held by 
a Gorkhu Rifles battalion in Tsangdhar area in NEFA , 2 /Lt. 
Dogra s platoon was on this flank , guarding a track leading 
to his Company position . His platoon came under intense 
fire and was attacked by no less than 200 Chinese soldiers . 
Though heavily outnumbered , 2 /Lt. Dogra s men held their 
ground and broke the initial assault. 2 /Lt. Dogra himself 
moved from bunker to bunker, infusing confidence into his 
men ; and continued to do so even when wounded in the face 
and bleeding profusely . Observing that the Light Machine 
Gun of the Section had stopped firing, 2 /Lt. Dogra , in com 
plete disregard of his personal safety , ran through the hail of 
enemy fire , put the gun into action , and Inflicted heavy 
casualties on the enemy. Afterwards he gave covering fire 
for the withdrawal of his men . till his machine gun was 
destroyed and he was captured . 

2 /Lt. Dogra throughout this action displayed courage and 
leadership of a high order and selfless devotion to duty in 
the best traditions of the Army. 
2 . Lt.- Col. BEJOY MOHAN BHATTACHARJEA 

(IC - 1338 ), The Garhwal Rifles . 

(.Effective date of award — 25rt October 1962) 
Lt. Colonel Bhattacharje a was commanding a battalion of 
the Garhwal Rifles which fought a withdrawal action from 
Towang - Jang on 25th October 1962 . The morale of his 
troops had been shaken but they regained it under his inspir 
ing leadership and soon dominated the area with aggressive 
patrolling . Lt. Colonel Bhattachariea himself accompanied 
the first few patrols , and his men recovered some arms and 
equipment left behind by the withdrawing forces. They also 
raided an enemy position and captured a prisoner . 


8 . Shri S . K . MAQBUL , Seaman I, 
· S . S . " Indian Success" . 

(Posthumous) 
9. Shri SURESHWAR DATTA , Engineer Cassab , 
S . S. " Indian Success" . 

( Posthumous ) 
( Effective date of award — 2nd January 1961) 
On 31st December 1960 , S . S . " Indian Navigator" of the 
India Steamship Co. Ltd . was on a voyage from Britain to 
India when a violent explosion took place in the cargo tyold 
causing extensive damage to her superstructure and compet 
ing her Master and crew to abandon her . The Company s 
agents in London directed another of their vessels S . S . 
" Indian Success " , which was in the vicinity of the ill - fated 
vessel, to investigate and report the condition of the aban 
doned ship . On reaching the scene at 0245 hours on 1st 
January 1961, the Master of S , S . " Indian Success " formed a 
volunteer party from amongst his crew and sent it to S . S . 
" Indian Navigator" in a motor life boat under heavy weather 
conditions. Finding It impossible to board the burning ship 
the party returned , but on 2nd January 1961 they succeeded 
in boarding her at 11,45 hours . In spite of the fact that the 
ship was listing badly , the party remained on board through 
out the day making preparations for towing her to safety . 
The weather deteriorated progressively with frequent rain 
squalls and very rough seas and since the life boat by which 
they came was no longer serviceable , they were directed to 
stay on board the ship and to be ready for towing operations 
the next morning. But, during the night, the ship wrecked 
by fire , explosions and the rough sea , broke up and sank with 
( he brave volunteers aboard . 

Chief Officer Soares and his companions gave their lives 
in the hazardous task of trying to save a wrecked ship , 
showing great courage in the face of the gravest danger and 
a high sense of duty . 
10 . Shri RAZOU SOPU ANGAMI. Area Superintendent, 

Northern Angami Area . 

( Effective date of award - XSth March 1962) 
On the night of 13th /I4th March , 1962, Shri Razou Sopu 
Angami, Area Superintendent of Northern Angami Area , 
received information that fifteen Naga hostiles were spending 
the night in a hideout in a village In Nagaland, Without 
losing any time, Shri Angami rushed to a Village Guard post 
to get a patrol to attack this hideout. As most of the 
Village Guards were out on other duty , he could collect only 
nine of thton . Undeterred by the smał strength of his force , 
he decided to attack the hideout, killing three hostiles , wound 
ing some others and capturing one nfle and some ammuni 
tion in the encounter. Shri Angami s initiative , presence of 
mind and courage made the operation successful . 

No. 3 -Pres./f > 4 , — The President is pleased to approve the 
award of the VIR CHAKRA for acts of gallantry to : 

1. 2436723 Havildar MALKIAT SINGH , 
The Punjab Regiment 

( Posthumous ) 
(Effective date of award — 10rft October 1962 ) 
Havildar Malkiat Singh was commanding a section post 
on high ground at Karpola north of TsengWng in NEFA . 
On 10th October 1962, when the Chinese launched a mas 
sive attack against the platoon post at Tsengjong, Havildar 
Malkiat Singh brought intense and accurate are to bear on 
the enemy. His section post did not have any overhead 
shelter, and he was quite aware that if their position was dis 
closed , it would be subjected to heavy shelling. Undaunted 
by any danger and in complete disregard of his own safety , 
Havildar Malkiat Singh continued to bring down maximum 
fire on the enemy. 

During a subsequent attack on the Tsce & jong position the 
same day , the section post of Havildar Malkiat Singh was 
subjected to intense mortar fire . He personally manned the 
gun position and continued accurate fire on the enemy until 
the post ran short of ammunition . By this time the enemy 
had occupied his route of withdrawal to thei Saute " of 
Nyamkachu and Havildar Malkiat Singh and his min were 
forced to withdraw through the thick iungle to the West. Ho 
then led his men by a circuitous and difficult route and 
reached Tsangdhar after about 48 hours. The ptrty had no 
rations and had to cany a wounded soldier . 

On 18th October 1962 , learning that ammunition and 
other essential stores were urgently needed by our troops at 
Tsangle three days march from Tsangdhar , Havildar Malkiat 
Singh volunteered to carry the stores. Twenty other Ranks 
of his platoon following his example volunteered to go with 
him . Ôn 20th October 1962, however, on the way to 
Tsangle , the party encountered 8 colunmn of approximately 


On 17th November 1962, when the enemy started a major 
offensive against the SELA position , the brunt of the attack 
was borne by Lt, Colonel Bhattacharjea s battalion . The 
enemy put in five successive attacks that day , but all of them 
were repulsed under his courageous leadership . At one 
time, when the enemy brought Medium Machine Gun fire 
on his flank and rear, he immediately sent out a party of 
volunteers which destroyed the enemy position and captured 
the Machine Gun . On the night of 17718th November 1962, 
the, battalion carried out a successful withdrawal to SENGE 
under orders from the Brigade Headquarters . Lt. Colonel 
Bhatt acharjea was in charge of the advance guards and 
though already tired , his men marched the whole night, 
covering a distance of 14 miles. When the forward troops 
came under sudden enemy fire from a ridge , Lt. Colonel 
Bhattacharjea led his men gallantly and cleared the ridge 
area , but could not make further progress owing to heavy 
enemy fire and was captured . 


Throughout this period of over three weeks Lt. Colonel 
Bhattach arjea led his men bravely with great courage and 
determination disregarding his own safety . 

No. 2 -Pres,/M . — The President is pleased to approve the 
award of the ASHOKA CHAKRA , CLASS H , for conspi 
cuous gallantry to : 

1. Shri ORLANDO JOSEPH SOARES , Chief Officer , 
S , S . " Indian Success ". 

(Posthumous ) 
, 2. Shri SAMIRAN KUMAR ROY , Second Officer , 
S . S . " Indian Success" . 

( Posthumous) 
3 . Shri MAHENDRA KRISHNA KUMAR Second 

Engineer, S . S . " Indian Success". ( Posthumous) 
4 . Shri ABDUL RAZAKALI MUKADDAM . Cadet , 
S . S . " Indian Success ". 

(Posthumous) 
5 . Shri ALAN FREDERICK RICHTOR , Cadet, 
S . S . " Indian Success " , 

(Posthumous ) 
6 . Shri RABINDRA NATH GANGULY , Seaman J, 
S . S . " Indian Success " . 

( Posthumous ) 
7 . Shri HARAN CHANDRA MISRA , Seaman I, 
S , S. " Indian Success" , 

(Posthumous) 


PART I— Ssc , 1J 


T HE SAXETTE OF INDFA * JANUARY 11, 1904/ PAUSA 21,- 1885 


twelve hundred Chinese . Undaunted by the enemy s over 
whelming superiority in numbers, Havíldar Malkiat Singh 
and his twenty brave rnen took up a position , brought down 
heavy fire on the enemy, and put up a gallant fight, in which 
he was killed . 

Throughout these operations, H avildar Malkiat Singh , dis 
played consistent enthusiasm , exceptional bravery and gallant 
leadership . 


in spite of the fact that he bad sustained multiple bullet in 
juries . He continued his fight till his men were killed and 
he himself was captured . Later he managed to escape from 
enemy custody . 

The fighting spirit , leadership and courage displayed by 
L /Naik Hasta Bahadur Gurung were of a high order. 


2 . 29659 Rifleman PURNA BAHADUR TAMANG , . 

The Assam Rifles. 

{ Effective date of award — 22nd October 1962) 
On 22nd October 1962 , after a ridge in NEFA had fallen 
to the Chinese , it became difficult for a platoon post to 
withdraw as the Chinese had occupied the neighbouring terri 
tory . No instructions as to the route to take could be 
transmitted To the post as its wireless set had gone out of 
order. In these adverse conditions Rifleman Purna Bahadur 
Tamanji volunteered to carry a message from his Command 
ing Officer to the Commander of the Post. Running the 
gauntlet of enemy fire , Rifleman Tamang made his way 
quickly through the jungles and managed to deliver the 
message to the Platoon Commander in five hours time. This 
enabled the platoon to extricate itself from the post and so 
saved the Eves of the 40 soldiers in it. 


6 . 112293 Rifleman BAJIRAM THAPA, 

The Assam Rifles. 

( Effective date of awerd *- 24th October 1962) 
Rifleman Bajir am Thapa , along with his platoon , was 
deployed at a post in NEFA which the Chinese forces 
attacked in overwhelming numbers on 24th October 1962, 
Rifleman Thapa , who was in position covering the main 
track , shot dead two advancing enemy soldiers . Even when 
a burst of enemy fire wounded him in the left hand, he con 
tinued firing and killed yet another enemy soldier. By this 
time the enemy had got very close and Rifleman Thapa was 
wounded again in the back . His platoon had to withdraw 
without him . Wounded and without food , water and ade 
quate clothing, he remained behind the enemy Unto for 3 
days , before he succeeded in rejoining bis platoon . 

In this action , Rifleman Bajiram Thapa displayed courage , 
determination and resourcefulness of a high order. 


In this action Rifleman Purna Bahadur Tamang displayed 
presence of mind , commendable courauc , and great devotion 
to duty . 


7 . Second Lieutenant SURINDAR NATH TANDON 
( 1C - 12691), The Garhwal Rifles. 

( Effective date of award — llth November 1962 ) 
2 /Lieuteriant Tandon was commanding a Company of the 
Garhwal Rifles, which had taken up a defensive position near 
a bridge between Jang and Nuranang in NEFA . Owing to 
the nature of the terrain and defensive layout, it was not 
possible for the Chinese to attack the positions of other 
Companies without first overrunning the position of 2 /Lt. 
Tandon s Company . 


3 . 3330962 Havildar KIRPA RAM , 
The Sikh Regiment. 

( Posthumous) 
( Effective date of award — 23rd October 1962) 
Havildar Kirpa Ram , Battalion Bootmaker , came iD to the 
limelight when the enemy attacked the Wolong area in NEFA 
on 23rd October 1962 . The Unit Quartermaster was faced 
with the most urgent task of getting heavy mortar ammuni 
tion and small arms ammunition to the gun position and the 
forward defended localities where the stocks of ammunition 
were running low . All the combatants were engaged in the 
priority task of improving the defences bec ause of the 
enemy s swift advance to Walong. Realising the situation , 
Havildar Kirpa Ram Volunteered , and persuaded all other 
tradesmen and non - combatants to undertake the task of 
carrying the ammunition . By his personal example and 
initiative he inspired his comrades to work round the clock 
and to complete the task in time. When this was accom 
plished he also undertook the subsequent replenishment of 
ammunition in the forward defended localities . 


On 17th November 1962, the Chinese launched their first 
attack on the forward platoon . In the midst of heavy mortar 
fire from the enemy, 2 /Lt. Tandon visited his forward posts . 
The attack was repulsed , but the Battalion Commander warn 
ed 2 / Lieutenant Tandon to expect more severe attacks and 
ordered him to stop the enemy at all costs . He assured the 
Commanding Officer that every jawan was prepared to hold 
the position as long as he survived . 


Havildar Kirpa Rani gave further proof of his selfless 
devotion to duty on 16th November 1962, when a company 
whose supply route had been cut by the enemy needed 
ammunition badly . He again volunteered to carry ammuni 
tion , knowing full well the gravity of the situation , and the 
hazards involved to bis personal safety . With a team of 
about 8 men , he gallantly fought his way through the enemy, 
but was seriously wounded . Though incapacitated , he kept 
.cheering the rest of the men on to fulfil the mission . As a 
result, the ammunition was delivered enabling the Company 
to continue fighting . Havildar Kirpa Ram succumbed to his 
wounds. His was a singular example of a non - combatant 
showing , conspicuous courage and unflinching loyalty to his 
comrades in arms, in the face of the enemy. 


The enemy put in two more attack * within 3 hours but 
the jaw ans, under the inspiring and courageous leadership 
of 2 /Lieutenant Tandon , beat OS the assaults inflicting in 
creasing casualties on the enemy. After a short lull, the 
enemy managed to bring a Medium Machine Gun within 30 
to 40 yards of a platoon position and opened heavy fire on 
it . 2 /Lt. Tandon realising that the position had become very 
critical sent a volunteer party comprising a Lance - Naik and 
two Riflemen to destroy the enemy MMG . While 2 /Lt. 
Tandon and his Platoon Commander personally engaged the 
enemy MMG with their own Light Machine Guns , the Lance 
Naik and the Riflemen crawled forward , killed the enemy 
Medium M achine Gunners and brought back the Medium 
Machine Gun . 

With outstanding courage and determination , 2 / Lt Tendon 
and his men withstood repeated assaults of the enemy and 
inflicted over 300 casualties. 


8 . JC - 10211 Subedar UDAI SINGH RAWAT, 

The Garhwal Rifles . 


4 . Major PANDHARINATH ANANT REGE (IC -3174 ) , 

The Assam Rifles . 


( Effective date of award — 24th October 1962) 
Major P . A . Rege was Commanding Officer of a postat 
Henkw in NEFA with about 100 men . On 24th October 

1962, about 500 Chinese soldiers attacked the post and our 
troops, though greatly outnumbered , fought back so tena 
ciously under the command of Major Regc that they repulsed 
four enemy attacks and inflicted Wavy casualties on them . 
Ultimately after hand to hand fighting our troops fyad to 
withdraw . Major Rege and his men had continued success 
fully however to block the advance of the enemy for å . con 
siderable period , thereby keeping the lines of communication 
open for the Garrison . 


Throughout this operation Major Rege displayed courage 
. and leadership of a high order . 


( Effective date of award - 17f/» November 1962 ) 
On 17 th November 1962, Subedar Udai Singh Rawat was 
in command of a platoon of the Garhwal Rifles near Nura 
nang in NEFA . His platoon was holding the left rear flank 
of the Company defended locality . At dawn , the Chinese 
attacked the forward platoon locality with heavy mortar and 
small arms fire . The attack was repulsed . At about 0800 
hours , the enemy again attacked the platoon position with in 
creased pressure from three directions. The attack was again 
repulsed and the enemy suffered heavy casualties . At aiiout 
1100 hours the « nemy brought a Medium Machine Gun with 
in 30 to 40 yards of the left flank of the platoon locality and 
tried to neutralise the section post and Light Machine Guns . 
Subedar Rawat found it necessary to destroy the eneniy MMG 
with grenades . After consulting his Company Commander , 
Subedar Rawat detailed a Lance Nkik and two Riflemen , to 
destroy the enemy MMG . Subedar Rawat and his Company 
Commander personally engaged the enemy Medium . Machine 
Gunners with their, own Light Machine GUPS , while the Lance 
Naik and the Riflemen crawled forward , killed the Medium 
Machine Gunners by throwing grenades and brought back 
the Medium Machine Gun . The Lance Nalk and one of the 
two Riflemen were killed in this action . Subedar Rawat and 
his man successfully protected the left rear flank of the Com 
pany and prevented the enemy from over -running the 
defended locality . 

Subedar Udal Singh Rawat displayed steadfastness , deter 
mination and leadership of a high order during this opera 
tion . . 


5 . 111604 Lance Naik HASTA BAHADUR GURUNG , 

The Assam Rifles . 
( Effective date of award — 24 (/i October 1962 ) 


Lance Nalk Hasta Bahadur Gurung was in command of a 
detached Section at Lamdola , NEFA . On 24th October 
1962 , the Chinese attacked his post in overwhelming numbers 
and though L /Naik Gurung had only four riflemen with him 
at that time, he fought back tenaciously against the Chinese 
force . Whan his LMG No. 1 was killed , L /Naik Gurung 
took the Light Muchine Gun himself and engaged the , enemy 


THE GAZETTE QF INDIA , JANUARY 11 , 1964 /PAUSA 21 , 1885 


(PAHT I- SEC : 1 


9 . Flight Lieutenant KJEUSHAN KANT SAINI ( 4436 ) ; 

General Duties (Pilot ,) . 


Pritam Singh Grewal was detailed to lead a team to recover 
the body of a French soldier who bad been killed by a mine. 


The team consisting of 15 members (including the crew 
and liaison officers ) left in two helicopters and landed at 
their destination after noon . When the body of the French 
soiaier had been recovered and placed in a helicopter , the 
party was subjected to mortar and automatic lire by hostiles. 
All the members of the party took cover except for two 
civilian members. Noticing them lying hi the open near one 
of the helicopters, which had by now received a direct hit 
from a mortar bomb and was ablaze, Major Grewal , at 
great risk to his own life , rushed forward to bring them to 
safety even though the area was being swept by automatic 
fire . A mortar shell burst about 20 feet behind him and 
Major Grewal received multiple injuries in the back . In spite 
of this he proceeded to the nearest village in order to arrange 
for medical aid and evacuation of the other seriously 
wounded personnel. 


The courage , initiative and determination with which 
Major Grewal handled the situation were in tho best tradi 
tions of the Army, 


S . DUTT , Secy , to the President. 


(Effective date of award — ISth November 1962) 
Flight Lieutenant Krish an Kant Saini had been operating 
in NtlFA area since October 1960 . On 18th November, 
1962, he , along with his co - pilot, was evacuating seriously 
injured battle casualties in Wakrag area . He was instructed 
to land at a helipad close to the enemy line which was 
reported to be clear of enemy troops. When ho was over 
the helipad , Chinese troops opened hre from many directions . 
His helicopter was hit at several places ; the main reducter 
was damaged and oil from it gushed out in a . thick spray 
which blinded him temporarily . His right ankle was also 
injured by a splinter and he was bleeding profusely . With 
great determination , presence of mind and sloll , he dived the 
helicopter almost to ground level in order to avoid further 
damage from enemy fire. Ho thus saved the helicopter and 
the lives of his co- pilot and passenger * . In spite of the 
damaged hydraulic system and the perional injury , he skil 
fully brought the aircraft back to base . 

Flight Lieutenant Saini displayed courage, determination 
and professional skill of a high order , 
10 . 4529486 Havildar GOVIND KAMBLE * 
The Mahar Regiment. 

{Posthumous ) 
(Effective date of award - 18th November 1962 ) 
Havildar Govind Kamble of the Mah ar Regiment was in 
command of a Medium Machine Gun Section placed under 
the operational command of a Company of Sikh Light 
Infantry , which was deployed on the forward slopes of 
SELA I NEFA to cover the withdrawal of a Battalion of the 
Garhwal Rifles. On 18th November 1962 the Chinese 
forces attacked this Company position . The battalion area 
south of it had partially fallen to the enemy. Havildar 
Kamble was in command of two Medium Machine Guns and 
moved from trench to trench completely disregarding enemy 
fire . While doing so , he was hit by mortar splinters in both 
legs and was unable to use them . He , however , dragged 
himself into the Medium Machine Gun trench . By this time 
the Company was ordered to withdraw . Havlldar Kamble 
told his men to withdraw to safety while - he continued to 
give them covering fire and enabled them to disengage from 
the enemy. He himself succumbed to his injuries. 

Havildar Govind Kamble displayed courage , devotion to 
duty and a spirit of supreme sacrifice in the face of the 
enemy. 

No. 4 ~ Pres./64. — The President is pleased to approve tho 
award of the ASHOKA CHAKRA, CLASS III, for gallantry , 
to ; 

1. 1406843 Naik GOVIND RAM , 

The Corps of Engineers . (Posthumous) 

( Effective date of award — 10th October 1961) 
In the Zojila area, Nalk Govind Ram was in charge of a 
blasting party and was also responsible for conducting the 
machinery on road construction . Ho was responsible for a 
road stretch of 250 yards on tho vertical face of Zojila to 
which regardless of any danger, he acted as guide to all ins 
pecting and work checking officers. On 10th October 1961, 
during the course of work , a portion of a large hill broke 
off and fell . Naik Govind Ram , at grave personal risk , 
warned his men and thus saved then ; lives , but in doing so 
lost his own. His gallantry and spirit of self sacrifice were 
in the best traditions of tho Army. 
2 . 2835356 Jemadar BAGH SINGH , 18 Bn . 

The Rajputana Rifles. 

( Effective date of award — 4th November 1962 ) 
On 2nd November 1962 Jemadar (then Havildar) Bagh 
Singh , who was operating in the disturbed areas of Manipur, 
was sent with his patrol to capture a notorious hostile leader 
In a village . After a strenuous march : by - a difficult route , 
the patrol reached the village and encircled the hostiles, who 
ran in two directions firing at the patrol. Jemadar Bagh 
Singh split up his patrol to follow both tho hostile parties 
simultaneously , A hostile - threw a grenade, which narrowly 
missed Jemadar Bagh Singh . Jemadar Bagh Singh fired at 
and wounded the leader of the gang, who however suddenly 
jumped down a deep ravine. Jemadar" Bagh Singh , without 
any hesitation , jumped after him and grappled with him and 
captured him . Some arms, ammunition and photographs 
were recovered from the hostiles. 

In this action , Jemadar Bagh Singh displayed extraordinary 
courage , presence of mind and devotion to duty . 

3. Major PRTTAM SINGH GREWAL (IC -5611 ), 8 Bn . 
The Gorkha Rifles, 

(Effective date of awdrd ~ - 3rd May, lj >63) 
On 3rd May 1963 , while serving with tho International 
Commission for Supervision and Control in Laos, Major 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

NOTICE 
New Delhi, the 11th December 1963 
Appointment of Valuers under Section 4 ( 3 ) of the 

Estate Duty Act, 1953 — Valuers for Tea Estates. 
No, 5 / 50 /63 - E . D , — The Central Government have decided 
to appoint a separate category of Valuers for valuing tea 
estates . The minimum qualifications required for such a 
valuer are : 
( a ) he should be the owner or Manager of a tea plan 

tation of the size of at least 100 acres which has a 

factory for manufacturing tea ; and 
(b ) he must have at least ten years experience in the 

plantation line. 
2 . Any person who fulfils the above qualifications ahd is 
desirous of being appointed as a Valuer may apply to the 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue ), New Delhi, on or before 
the 28th February, 1964 . 

3 . On receipt of an application , the Central Government 
may require any other information to be furnished or may 
cause such enquiries to be made - as it deems fit. . 

4 . ( 1 ) The appointment of Valuers shall, in the first 
instance , be for a period of three years and every person 
whose name has been included in any list shall have to 
apply again , for the renewal of his appointment for a similar 
period if he satisfies the qualifications prescribed for the time 
being 

(2 ) Further names of Valuers may be added In :lists to be 
published half yearly . 

( 3 ) The Central Government may remove the name of 
any person from the list of Valuers if it finds him guilty of 
any misrepresentation in furnishing particulars of his qualifi 
cations and experience or of any misconduct in connection 
with any valuation . 

5 . The scale of charges fixed for the remuneration of 
Valuers is as under and it shall not be permissible for any 
Valuer whose name is borne on the list to charge a fee - at 
a scale higher than the prescribed scale ; — 

SCALE OF CHARGES 
On the first Rs. 50 ,000 of the „ i % of the value , 
property so valued . 
On the next Rs. 1,00 ,000 of the t % of the value , 
property so valued . 
On the balance of the property .. i % of tho value , 
so valued . 


S , R . MEHTA , Deputy Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

(Department of Science ) 

New Delhi, the 30th December 1963 
No. 5 (24)763 -AR /. — Under the provision * of Article 89 
of the Articles of Association of the National Research 
Development Corporation ( a Company re (istered under the" 


PARTI— SEC . 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11 , 1964 /PALJSA 21, 1855 


Companies Act of 1956 ) , the President is pleased to extend 
the term of existing Directors on the Board of Directors, 
appointed vide Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural 
Affairs Notifications No. F . 5 ( 28 )/62 - SRI dated the 1st 
January 1963, the 30th January 1963 and the 13th August 
1963 for a further period of one year with effect from the 
1st January 1964 . 

M . M . MALHOTRA, Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 21th December 1963 
No. EL. 11- 12 (21 )/61. — In this Ministry s Resolution No. 
EL . 11- 12 (21) /61, dated the 26th September, 1962, . relating 
to the constitution of the Control Board for the installation 
of 3 sets of 50 /62. 5 .MW each , at Delhi, as amended from 
time to time, for entry ( 3 ) under paragraph 2 , the following 
entry shall be substituted : 
3 . Additional Secretary , 

... Member 
Ministry of Finance . 


ORDER 
ORDERED that the Resolution be communicated to the 
Government of Punjab , the Delhi Administration , the Delhi 
Municipal Corporation , the Punjab State Electricity Board , 
Ministries of Home Affairs and Finance , Planning Commis 
sion and the Comptroller and Auditor General of India . 

ORDERED also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for information . 

V . NANJAPPA , Secy. 


4. 35 per cent. The increase was mainly in coal, cashewnuts, 
sugar, machinery , copra and manure . Rice and other grains, 
chemicals , salt and cotton raw showed decreases . 

The exports during the year 1962 -63 amounted to 4 ,03 lakh 
tonnes showing a decrease of 0 . 04 lakh tonnes compared 
with the previous year. . The decrease was mainly in the 
export * of ores , coconuts , copra , coconut oil and cottoii 
waste . Cashew kernals , tea and cashew shell liquid , rubber 
and prawns showed an increase . 

(b ) Passenger Traffic ; The total number of passengers 
who embarked and disembarked during the year under 
review was 1,690 and 1,646 as against 2 ,601 and 1,400 res 
pectively during the previous years . 

(c ) Shipping : The number of vessels , excluding sailing 
vessels, which entered the port during 1962-63 was 1,330 
with a tonnage of 44 .80 lakhs. The corresponding figures 
for the previous year were 1,342 vessels and 43. 10 lakh tons, 
131 sailing vessels with a tonnage of about 16 ,000 visite4 
the port during the year as against 120 with a tonnage of 
about 15 ,000 during 1961-62 . 

I. N .S . Vikrant of 704 0 . A . was the longest Naval Vessel, 
and S .S . Oxfordshire of 610 0 . A . with 20,586 tons grøss, 
was the longest and the biggest, and Motor Tanker KIWI 
of 31 draft (he deepest of the merchant vessels that entered 
the port during the year. 
( 3 ) LABOUR 

The amenities already provided such as library and read 
ing room , indoor and outdoor games, medical aid , etc , were 
continued ai usual. These amenities were provided to the 
porterage labour also , 
(4 ) CAPITAL WORKS . 

The work of construction of four additional wharf berths 
in the Ernakulam channel with ancillary facilities , which 
started in April 1955 , was ncaring completion . Besides, a 
number of staff quarters which were in progress at the end 
of the previous year were completed . The construction of 
an extension to tho Cochin Port Hospital on Willingdon 
Island, the construction of quarters for constables and the 
construction of roads on Willingdon Island made mbstantfal 
progress. 
(5 ) AMENITIES TO STAFF 

The number of scholarships granted to the children of the 
Port employees wag 66 during the year under review . . 

2 . The Government of India view with appreciation another 
year s work done by the Cochin Port Administration. 

ORDER 
ORDERED that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to all concerned and also published in the Gazette of India . 


. G . VENKATESWARA AYYAR , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

PORTS 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi, the 4th January 1964 
No. 6 - PG (65 )/63 . — The Government of India have 
received the Administration Report of the Port of Cochin 
for the year 1962 -63. The ualient features of the Report ar « 
given below : 
(1) FINANCIAL RESULTS 

( a ) Port Fund : The revenue Receipts of the port (exclud 
ing the Pilotage Account) during the year wero Rs. 136 .93 
lakhs as compared with Rs. 1.50 . 16 lakhs during 1961-62 . 
The rise in income was mainly due to increase in receipts 
from Wet Docks and Wharves and Lands and Buildings. 

The expenditure (excluding that charged to the Pilotage 
Account and contributions to Reservo Funds and Capital 
Account) during the year under review was Rs. 126 .25 lakhs 
as against Rs. 149.62 lakhs in 1961-62. The decrease in 
expenditure during the year under review was mainly due to 
decrease in debt charges on account of the return of a loan 
taken by the Port to the Government of India . 

A contribution of Rs. 10 lakhs was made to the Capital 
Account and the following contributions were mado to the 
various Reserve Funds : 

Amount Rs. lakhs 
· Revenue Reserve Fund 

1-00 
Accident Fund 

0 .99 
Renewals and replacement Fund 2 - 98 
(b ) Pilotage Account : Tho gross income and expenditure 
during 1962 -63 were Rs. 5 . 92 fakhs and Rs. 4 . 39 lakh * res 
pectively , resulting in a surplus of Rs. 1,53 lakhs. 

( c ) · Reserve Funds: The position with regard to the 
balances in the various funds at the end of tho year wa« 
satisfactory . 

(d ) Debt : The aggregạte of debt charges during the year 
under review amounted to Rs. 19 . 24 lakhs as against 
Rs. 71, 74 lakhs in the preceding year, which included a loan 
of Rs. 50 lakh returned by the Port to Government. The 
outst anding debt of the port at the close of the financial year 
stood at about Rs. 349 lakhs out of which a sum of Rs. 291 
lakhs was due to the Government of India and the balance 
to the Government of Kerala . 
(2 ) TRAFFIC 

(a ) Trade : Irhe total dead weight tonnage of imports 
which passed through , the port during the year 1962 -63 was 
19 .$ 9 lakh tonnes as against 18 .87 lakh tonnes in tho pre - . 
vious year, registering an increase of 0 .82 lakh tonnes or 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 

BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 
New Delhi-2 . the 6th January 1964 
Cash prize for the best feature film on national unity and 

emotional integration 
No. 7 /54 /63 - F /. — With a view to encouraging the produc 
tion of feature films aimed at promoting national unity and 
emotional integration in tho country , Government have insti 
tuted a cash prize of Rs. 20 ,000 . 

2 . The Award will b » given in respect of the best feature 
film on the above theme out of films certified for public 
exhibition by the Central Board of Film Censors during the 
calendar year 1964 . 

3 . Entries for the Award will be invited by • Government 
by a prescribed date , to be notified in December, 1964. 

4 . Only such filmiwill be eligible for receiving the Award 
as have secured one of the State Awards for Films instituted 
by the Government of India in the Ministry of Infoj-m & tjon . 
and Broadcasting or achieved a run of 12 weeks by the daje 
of their entry for the Award . 

5 . The entry of films for this Award will be governed 
mutatis mutandis by the Rules concerning the State Awards 
for Films notified in the Resolution of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Information and Brdadcasting No . 
7 / 4 /63 ^ F1 dated the 9th January , 1963 as amended - from 
time to time. 

ORDER 
ORDERED that the Resolution be published in the Gazette 
of India for general information . 


NAWAB SINGH , Secy. 


10 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JANUARY If, 1SW54/ PAUSA21 , 1885 


[PART I — SEC . 1 


राष्ट्रपति सचिवालय 

" FT दिया । लेकिन दूश्मनों की भारी गोलाबारी के कारण बे मागे न 
नई ft . ft , PKMil * 1 SRSpft1964 

बढ़ सके और बन्दी बना लिए गए । 
सं० । - प्रेज / 64 -- राष्ट्रपति निम्नांकित व्यक्तियों को उनकी 

TRहफ्तों तक ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी ने अदम्य साहस तथा 
fTIIT % लिए " महावीर चक्र " प्रदान करने का अनुमोदन करते 

वीरता साथ और अपनी जान की परवाह किए बिना अपने सैनिकों 

का नेतृत्व किया । 
1. सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेण्ट भगवान दत्त डोगरा (माई सी 13176), 

# 0 2 - 5 ^/ 64 - Tripa निम्नांकित व्यक्तियों को उनकी 
गोरखा राइफल्स । 

अदम्य वीरता के लिए " अशोक चक्र , द्वितीय श्रेणी " प्रदान करने का 
(" JTTOIT *IT JPWflf fafa — 20 WOT ** 1962 ) 

अनुमोदन करते हैं : 

1. «ft पोरलेन्डो जोसेफ सोरेस, चीफ आफिसर, एस. एस . 
20 * rt. * K 1962 को चीनी सेना ने भारी अमबारी के बाद 
सुबह ही नेफा के मांगपर क्षेत्र में गोरखा राइफल बटालियन के मोर्चे 

___ इन्डियन सक्सेस " ( मरणोत्तर ) 
के बाएं पहल पर आक्रमण कर दिया । से०/ ल . डोगरा की प्लाटून 

2. «ft समीरन कुमार राय, सेकण्ड आफिसर,TT. एस . " इन्डियन 
इसी बायीं भोर कम्पनी के मोर्चे की पोर STR वाले रास्ते की रक्षा कर 

क्सेस " ( मरणोत्तर ) 
रही "ft । उनकी प्लाटून gr भीषण गोलाबारी होने लगी । आक्रमण 3. «ft महेन्द्र कृष्ण कुमार, सेकेण्ड इन्जीनियर, एस . एस." इलियन 
कारी चीनी सैनिक 200 % कम न थे । दुश्मन की इतनी अधिक संख्या सक्सेस " ( मरणोत्तर ) 
होने पर भी से०/ ले० डोगरा के सैनिक जमे रहे और उन्होंने दुश्मन के 4. श्री अब्दुल रजाकाली मुकद्दम, केडट , एस. एस."इन्डियन सक्सेस " 
पहले हमले को विफल कर दिया । से०/ ले० डोगरा एक बंफर से दूसरे 

( मरणोत्तर ) 
बंकर में जाते रहे मौर अपने सैनिकों में प्रात्मविश्वास जगाते रहे और 

5. श्री एलन फेडिक रिचर, केडट, एer . trjr . "इन्डियन सक्सेस " 
घायल होने तथा खून निकलने के बावजव भी वह ऐसा करते रहे । 

( मरणोत्तर ) 
से० लि . डोगरा ने देखा कि उस टुकड़ी की हलकी मशीन गर्ने चुप हैं , 

___ 6. श्री रवीन्द्र नाथ गंगोली, सीमैन I, एस. एस. “ इन्डियन सक्सेस " 
ift वे अपनी जान की परवाह न कर , दुश्मन की भारी गोलाबारी के 

( मरणोत्तर ) 
बीच , gr sffr भागे और मशीन गन चलाने लगे , जिससे दुश्मन का 
काफी नुकसान हुमा । बाद में वे तब तक अपनी मशीन गन चलाकर 

7. श्री हरन चन्द्र मिश्र , सीमैन I, एस . एस. "इन्डियन सक्सेस " 
अपने सैनिकों को पीछे हटने का मौका देते रहे, जब तक उनकी मशीन 

( मरणासर ) 
गन नष्ट नहीं हो गई मोर वे बन्दा नहीं बना लिए गए । 

8. «ft trc % . मकबूल , सीमैन I, एस. एस. “इन्डियन सक्सेस " 

( मरणोत्तर ) 
इस कार्यवाही में से० लि० : SAKI ने उच्च कोटि का साहस, नेतृत्व 

9. « ft सुरेश्वर दत्त , इंजीनियर एस. एस . “ इन्डियन सक्सेस " 
तथा कर्तव्य के प्रति निःस्वार्थ PIPAT , जो कि भारतीय सेना की सर्वोत्तम 
परम्परा के अनुकूल है, का प्रदर्शन किया । 

( मरणोत्तर ) 
2. लेफ्टिनेण्ट कर्नल विजय मोहन भट्टाचार्जी ( आईसी 1338 ), 

( पुरस्कार की 

2 जनवरी 1961 ) 
गढ़वाल राइफल्स । 

31 दिसम्बर 1960 Tt $( »•<ill स्टीमशिप कं . लि . का जहाज 
. ( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिषि -- 25 अक्तूबर 1962) . एस. एस . “ इण्डियन नेविगेटर " ब्रिटेन से भारत पा रहा था , लगभग 
ले कर्मन भट्टाचार्जी गढ़वाल राइफल्स की एक बटालियन 

11. 38 बजे उमके मालगोदाम में बहुत जोर का धमाका हुआ, जिससे 
की कमान कर रहे थे , ift 25 ? ^ g ^ T 1962 को तवांग- जंग से लड़ते 

जहाज को बहुत नुकसान पहुंचा 

कर्मचारियों 
हुए पीछे हट रही 

मनोबल WTTT TAT «ा , 

को उसे वहीं छोड़ देना पड़ा 1 Wt RR 22 . 30 ^ लन्दन स्थित 
लेकिन ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी % प्रेरणात्मक नेतृत्व से उनमें फिर 

कम्पनी % एजेंट ने दूसरे जहाज, " इण्डियन सक्सेस " को जो उस अहाण 

के निकट मा . उस जहाज की जांच उसकी स्थिति की रिपोर्ट 
दढ़ता प्रा it और जल्दी ही तीव्र गश्त करके उस क्षेत्र पर अधिकार 

देने % f T ? £f / T 1 1 3 PT ^, 1961 fft 2. 45 बजे उस जहाज के 
IT fART I TO कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी स्वयं पहले कुछ गश्तियों % साथ 
गए और वहां उनके सैनिकों ने पीछे हटने वाली सेना के द्वारा छोड़े गये 

घटना स्थल पर पचनेqr i^ r, rrw. "इण्डियन सक्सेस " के मास्टर 

ने अपने कर्मचारियों में से छांट कर एक टोली बनाई और भारी मोसम 
कुछ हथियार तथा «THH irrafani उन्होंने दुश्मन के एक मोर्चे 

की खराबी होते हुए भी उसे जीवन -रक्षक मोटर-बोट IIT 
पर हमला भी किया और एक को बन्दी बनाया । 

एस. एस. " इण्डियन नेविगेटर " को भेजा । यह जानते हुए कि 
17 नवम्बर 1962 को अब दुश्मन ने सेला के मोर्चे पर घोर पाक 

जलते हुए जहाज में चढ़ना असम्भव मा . टोली लौट गई , 
मण किया , तब उसके मुकाबले का पूरा भार ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी की 

लेकिन 2 जनवरी 1961 Tt IK 45 बजे वह जहाज पर चढ़ने में 
बटालियन ते ही वहन किया । उस दिन दुश्मन ने पांच बार लगातार 

सफल हो गई । इस सत्यता के बावजूद faजहाज लगातार दूषता जा 
हमला किया लेकिन ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी के साहस 

रहा . फिर भी वह टोली उसे बचा ले जाने के सारे दिन भरसक 
कारण सभी हमले निष्फल हुये । एक बार जब दुश्मन ने उनकी टुकड़ी तैयारी करती रही । मौसम खराब fk % 5RRIT वर्षा की बौछारें 
की मोर और पीछे से भी मीडियम मशीन गनों से गोलाबारी की तब 

पा रही थीं और समुद्र में उथल -पुथल थी एवं जिस मोटर बोट से 
ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी ने तुरन्त अपने कुछ सैनिक दुश्मन की ओर भेजे । । 

टोली आई थी , वह खराब हो गई, प्रतः टोली को जहाज पर ही रहने 
इन सैनिकों ने दुश्मन के मोर्चे को तोड़ डाला और मशीन गन पर काबू तथा अगली सुबह उसे बचाने के लिए तैयार रहने का मादेश दिया गया 
पा लिया I17/18- 14WK 1962 = PETRff? T ब्रिगेड मुख्यालय के लेकिन रात को ही जहाज प्राग और धमाके से तथा समदी लहरों से 
मादेश पर उनकी बटालियन सफलतापूर्वक सेंग वापस ? T if । ले० 

अचानक टूट गया और टोली के वीर कर्मचारियों सहित डूब गया । 
कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी अग्रिम रक्षक -दल के नेता थे, यद्यपि उनके सैनिक 
बहुत थक चके थे, तब भी रातों रात चलकर उन्होंने 14 मील की दूरी श्री प्रोरलेन्डो जोसेफ सोरेस और उनके साथियों ने टूटे जहाजको 
तय की । जब पहाड़ी से प्राचनक ही उनके अग्रिम दल पर दुश्मन ने बचाने का प्रयत्न करने के दुष्कर कार्य में अपने प्राणों की बलि वेदी 
गोलाबारी की , तब ले . कर्नल भट्टाचार्जी बहादुरी के साथ अपने तया भीषण संकट एवं कर्तव्य की उच्च विवेकशीलता के सम्मुख महान 
सैनिकों को ले गए और उन्होंने उस पहाड़ी इलाके को दुश्मनों से साफ साहस सापरिषय दिया । 


PART I — SBC . 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11, 1964 /PAUSA 21, 1 & 85 


10. श्री राम्रो सोपु अंगामी , एरिया सुपरिन्टेन्ट, नार्दर्न 

proft एरिया । 
( पुरस्कार fft JWT ^ fafa - 13HIW 1962 ) 
13/ 14 मार्च 1962 की रात को उत्तरी प्रांगामी क्षेत्र के एरिया 
सुपरिन्टेण्डेण्ट श्री आर. सोपू भंगामी को सूचना मिली कि नागालैण्ड के 
एक Thr ^f t ; ICCT * « TR qx I 5 ftrsrrot TFTT TR * prrc Tf | | 
बिमा समय नष्ट किए श्री अंगामी इस गुप्त स्थान पर आक्रमण करने 
के लिए रक्षकों को जमा करने हेतु ग्राम रक्षक चौकी की ओर भागे । 
उस समय अधिकांश ग्राम रक्षक किसी अन्य ड्यूटी पर बाहर थे । 
वह उन में से केवल 9 को एकत्रित कर सके । अपनी टोली की कम शक्ति 
की चिन्ता न करते JIT उन्होंने उस गुप्त स्थान पर आक्रमण करने का 
निर्णय PUTT , traf cffafasi is TITAT, ^ ^ TATg ^ ?r« r इस 
मुठभेड़ में एक राइफल और कई कारतूस अधिकार में पाये । श्री अंगामी 
की पहल , प्रत्युतWTrTIT साहस से ही इस कार्यवाही में सफलता 
प्राप्त हुयी । 


सं0 3 INr/ 64. — राष्ट्रपति निम्नांकित ff Rnff को उनकी 
वीरसा लिये “वीर चक्र " प्रदान करने का अनुमोदन करते 


इस समस्त कार्यवाहियों में हवलदार मालकियत सिंह ने पूछ 
उत्साह, विशिष्ट वीरता एवं वीरतापूर्ण नेतृत्व TT परिचय दिया । 

2. 296 59 राइफलमैन पूर्ण बहादुर तमंग , 

प्रासाम राइफल्स । 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिषि - 22 अक्तूबर 1962 ) 
22 अक्तूबर , 1962 को नेफा की एक पहाड़ी पर चीनी फौजों 
का अधिकार ft ^ % wrc, वहां से एक भारतीय प्लाटून के 
सैनिकों के लिए पीछे हटना मुश्किल हो IT IT क्योंकि पड़ोसी 
क्षेत्र पर चीनियों PT अधिकार ft TTT «ा | ^ ?ft विपरीत परि 
स्थितियों में चौकी के लिए किसी प्रकार nt सूचना नहीं भेजी 
जा सकती थी क्योंकि इनका ( वायरलैस ) मेतारयन्त्र खराब हो 
गया «IT I राइफलमन पूर्ण बहादुर तमंग ने अपने कमांचिंग माफिसर 
का प्रादेश चौकी के कमांडर को पहुंचाने के लिए स्वयं को प्रस्तुत 
किया । दुश्मन की गोलीबारी के बीच, जंगलों में चलते हुए पांच 
घण्टे में राइफलमैन तमंग प्लाटन कमांडर को प्रादेश पहुंचाने 
A Wfff ft TMT | इसके कारण प्लाटून के सैनिक दुश्मन के घेरे 
से निकल कर पा सके और 40 सैनिकों की जान बच गई । 

इस कार्यवाही में राइफलमैन पूर्ण बहादुर तमंग ने प्रत्युत्पन्न 
मति, प्रशंसनीय साहस और कर्तव्यपरायणता का परिचय दिया । 

3. 3350962 हवलदार कृपा TFT , 

सिस्न रेजिमेण्ट ( मरणोत्तर ) 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिथि -~-23 अक्तूबर 1962 ) 
23 अक्तूबर , 1962 को जब नेफा के वालोंग क्षेत्र में शत्र 
ने आक्रमण किया उस समय हवलदार FTT TIT, बटालियन के 

ते बनानेवाले अत्यधिक प्रकाश में पाए । 3JAR3 क्वार्टर मास्टर 
के 1TFR AfW % स्थान तक ^ Tfft TTSIT ff^ T पोर गोलाबारूव 
पहुंचाने की समस्या «t तथा अग्रिम XaiTTAF स्थिति पर गोला 
बारून का भण्डार तेजी से खत्म हो TIT ला ! वहां सभी सैनिक 
मोर्चा सम्हाले थे क्योंकि दुश्मन वालोंग की मोर तेजी से बढ़ 
TIT ला । परिस्थिति ला अनुभव करते हुए हवलदार कृपा राम ने 
स्वयं को प्रस्तुत करते हुए दूसरे असैनिक कर्मचारियों ने भी 
गोलाबारूद पहुंचाने का काम करने के लिए राजी कर लिया । 
अपने स्वयं के उदाहरण एवं पहल से उन्होंने अपने साथियों को रात 
दिन कार्य करने के लिए प्रेरित किया और समय पर कार्य पूरा कर 
दिया । जब वह कार्य पूर्ण हुआ तो उन्होंने अग्रिम मोर्चे पर भी 
गोलाबारूद प्रादि पहुंचाने का काम किया । 


1 . 2436723 हवलदार मालकियत सिंह 

पंजाब रेजिमेण्ट ( मरणोत्तर ) 
( पुरस्कार की JHWftfafa - 10WW[ WT 1962 ) 
हबलदार मालकियत सिंह के हाथों में नेफा में कारपोला पर 
( सेंगलोंग ) के उत्तर में एक सेक्सन चौकी की कमान "ft 1 10 
अफ्तार , 1 & 62 को जब सेंगजोंग की प्लेटून चौकी पर चीनी फौजों 
ने भारी हमला किया ?lt हवलदार मालकियत f % fA भारी एवं 
अचूक निशाने से दुश्मन पर ftf % iff की बौछार की । उनकी पीकी 
का ऊपर से रक्षा का कोई प्रबन्ध न था और उन्हें मालूम कि 
यदि उनकी स्थिति का पता लग गया तो उस पर धुंआधार गोने 
बरसाए जाएंगे । इन सबके बावजूद , किसी खतरे से हरे बिना ही 
अपनी जान " ft To ft परवाह न करते हुए हवलदार मालकियत । 
सिंह ने दुश्मन पर गोली बरसाना जारी रखा । 


उसके बाद उसी दिन सेंगजोंग स्थिति में हवलवार मालकियत 
सिंह ift " W qr दुश्मन ने मारि . 

उन्होंने 
स्वयं मोर्चा सम्हाला मोर शत्रु qx STAT Pmmm साधकर तब 
कक गोलियां बरसाते रहे जब तक कि चौकी में गोला बारूद की 
कमी न हो if । इस समय तक न्यामकाचू के दक्षिण में उनके 
पीछे सौटने के मार्ग qx fr शत्रु ने अधिकार कर लिया । इसलिए 
हमलवार मालकियत सिंह और उनके सैनिकों को पश्चिम की मोर 
जंगलों में लौटने f?r विक्स होना पड़ा । वे अपने सैनिकों सहित 
काफी घुमावदार व दुर्गम रास्ते से लगभग 48 घंटे बाद सांगधर 
पहचे । उनके पास खाने पीने का कोई सामान न गा भौर उनका 
एक सैनिक घायल TT जिसे उठाकर *TMT TW TIT ला । . 


____ 18 अक्तूबर 1962 " मो जब TA TRI AR AT fV सांगले , 
जहां सांगघर से 

पैदल चल कर ^ TISTT, qr हमारे 
सनिकों को गोला बारूद 5ftT अन्य जरूरी NTFIR की शीघ्र जरूरत 
है, हवलदार मालकियत सिंह वहां सामान पहुंचाने को तैयार हो 
गए । उनका अनुकरण करते हुए उनके प्लेटून के बीस अन्य सैनिकों 
ने उनके साथ चलने के लिए स्वयं को प्रस्तुत किया । 20 अक्तूबर, 
1962 को जब ये सांगले की ओर बढ़ । थे तो उनका मुकाबला 
लगभग 1200 चीनी सैनिकों से हुआ । शत्रु की अत्यधिक संख्या 
से हतोत्साहित न होते हुए हवलदार मालकियत सिंह तथा उनके 
बीस वीर सैनिकों ने अपनी स्थिति सम्भाल ^ t ^ ^ rjar भारी 
गोलाबारी की TT बीरतापूर्वक युद्ध किया जिसमें वह मारे गए । 


___ 16 ^ ^ < 1962 को हवलदार कृपा राम ने कर्त्तव्यपरा 
यणला का एक और प्रादर्श प्रस्तुत किया जब कि एक कम्पनी के 
सैनिकों को गोलाबारूद पहंचाने की बड़ी ज . < d "ft मोर दुश्मनों 
ने सप्लाई का AIWI TT ? fW TTI उन्होंने गोलाबारूद पहुंचाने 
के लिए पुनः स्वयं को प्रस्तुत किया यबपि कि ये परिस्थिति की 
गम्भीरता को जानते थे तथापि उनकी अपनी व्यक्तिगत सुरक्षा 
को भी खतरा है । 8 व्यक्तियों की एक टोली के साथ वे दुश्मनों 
का वीरता से मुकाबला करते ए आगे बढ़े लेकिन बुरी तरह 
घायल ft गए । यद्यपि कि ये TOWft गए थे तथापि अपने कार्य 
को पूर्ण करने के लिए अपने शेष साथियों का उत्साह बढ़ाते रहे । उनके 
प्रयत्नों के " M< T, कम्पनी को गोलाबारूद पहुंचाने में सफलता 
मिली जिससे कम्पनी % ^ P P HfTf 5rrft रख सके । हवलदार 
कृपा राम WTf % FICT ^ it Tf | 


उनका यह एक ही उदाहरण था कि सैनिक न होते हुए भी 
उन्होंने अपने साथी सैनिकों " मा , दुश्मन सेमोलने में मदद दी 
मोर अपार साहस tfK देशमक्ति का परिचय दिया । 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11 , 1964/PAUSA 21 , 1885 


[PART I — SEC . .1 


4. मेजर पंढरीनाथ मनंत रेगे ( माई * 3174) , 

प्रासाम राइफल्स I 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभाबी firf T - 24WWJAT19 62 ) 

मेजर पी० ए० रेगे नेफा में हेंकर की एक चौकी में लगभग 
100 सैनिकों के साथ कमांडिंग ?TW: ^ I 24 Wt oH, 1962 
को लगभग 500 चीनी सैनिकों ने चौकी IT हमला किया तथा 
हमारे सैनिक यद्यपि संख्या में बहुत कम थे तथापि उन्होंने मेजर रेगे 
की अधीनता दृढ़ता से युद्ध किया tV शत्रुओं के चार पाक्रमणों 
को विफल कTferr तथा उनके अनेक सैनिकों को हताहत किया । 
बाद में संगीनों से लड़ने के बाद हमारे सैनिकों को पीछे हटना 
पड़ा । मेजर रेगे और उनके साथियों ने दुश्मनों को काफी समय तक 
मागे बढ़ने से रोक रखा इसमे एक गेरीसन के साथ , हमारे सैनिकों 
का सम्पर्क मा रहा । 

इस कार्यवाही में मेजर रेगे ने साहस एवं उच्चकोटि के नेतृत्व 
का परिचय दिया । 
5. 111604 लांस नायक हस्त बहादुर गुरंग , 

आसाम राइफल्स । । 
( पुरस्कार «it Jmnft fir . r - 24 imjirc 1982 ) 
लांस नायक हस्त बहादुर गुरंग नेफा में लमवौला में एक अलग झूटे 
हए सेक्सन की कमान कर रहे थे I 24 < T ^ T , 1962 को उनकी 
चौकी पर चीनियों ने भारी तादाद में हमला किया तथा लोस नायक 
गुरंग ने जिनके साथ उस समय केवल चार राइफलमैन थे पीनी सेना 
के fares दृढ़ता पूर्वक ^ ft. rr i जब हल्की मशीनगन चलाने 
वाला उनका सैनिक नं० 1 TTKT * nrr तो लांस नायक गुरंग ने स्वयं 
उस हल्की मशीनगन को सम्हाल लिया और गोलियों से कई बार 
जख्मी होने के बाबजब वे दुश्मन से युद्ध करते रहे । वे तब तक लड़ते 
रहे जब तक कि उनके सैनिक मारे नहीं गए और उन्हें पका न 
लिया गया । बाद में वे दुश्मनी % गल से बच निकले । 
____ लान्स नायक हस्त बहादुर गुरंग ने उच्चकोटि के युद्ध के 
उत्साह, नेतृत्व एवं साहस का परिचय दिया । 

6. 112293 राइफलमैन बाजीराम थापा, 

भासाम राइफल्स । 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिथि - 24 अक्तूबर 1982 ) 

राइफलमैन बाजीराम थापा अपने प्लाटन के साथ नेफा में 
एक चौकी पर तैनात थे जिस m fit 24 अक्तूबर , 1962 ^ 
चीनियों ने भारी संख्या 

राइफलमैन TPTT 
जो मुख्य हमले की दिशा में दुश्मन को रोक रहे थे, ने भागे पढ़ते 
हुए पात्रु % 2 सैनिकों "fit WFit f.fV TT fd MHT बनाया । शत्रु 
की गोलियों की बौछार ने 

। घायल कर दिया 
परन्तु उन्होंने गोली 

पौर शत्रु के एक और 
सैनिक को मार डासा | WRI i उनके बहुत नजदीक आ गए 
थे ?| |T राइफलमन थापा की पीठ पर पुनः घाव लगा । उनके 
प्लाटून को उनके बिना पीछे हटना पड़ा । अपने प्लाटून में पुनः 
पहुंचने में सफलता JTFAT करने से पूर्व वे घायल और fan पाना 
पानी, और पर्याप्त कपड़ों के दुष्मनों से घिरे इलाके में तीन दिन पड़े 


को समाप्त किए बिना ^ Pi 1)1 के लिए अन्य कम्पनियों की स्थितियों 
" R प्राक्रमण करना सम्भव नहीं था । 

___ 17NAPK 19624t चीनियों ने अग्निम प्लाटून पर पहली 
बार आक्रमण किया 1 ^ JRT * rrfr मार्टरों से होने वाली गोला . 
बारी के मध्य सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेन्ट टण्डन ने अपनी अग्रिम चौकियों 
का Prfrwr fen 1 उन्होंने दुश्मनों के हमले को TITTAIT कर 
दिया लेकिन बटालियन कमांडर ने लेफ्टिनेन्ट टण्डन को चेतावनी 
दी कि दुश्मन और अधिक बड़े हमले कर सकता है तथा आदेश दिया 
कि किसी तरह भी वे दुश्मन को रोके । उन्होंने कमांडिंग आफिसर 
को विश्वास femfv उनका हर जवान मरते दम तक अपनी 
स्थिति सम्भालने को तैयार है । 

शों ने तीन घंटों के अन्दर दो और प्राक्रमण किए लेकिन 
सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेन्ट टण्डन के प्रेरक एवं निर्भीक नेतृत्व में उनके जवानों 
ने उनके हमले को विफल किया और अनेक शत्रुओं को हताहत 
किया । «rtir देर बाद शत्रु प्लाटून के मोर्चे के बाद लगभग 30 - 40 
गज में एक मध्यम दर्जे की मशीनगन ले पाए और भारी गोलाबारी 
शुरु कर दी । सकाड लेफ्टि० टण्डन ने अनुभव किया कि उनकी 
स्थिति बड़ी संकटमय हो T! [ तो उन्होंने एक लांस नायक भोर 
दो राइफलमैन को दुश्मन को मशीनगन नष्ट करने के लिए भेजा । 

जब संकण्ड लेफ्टि० टण्डन और उनके प्लाटून कमांडर स्वयं 
हल्की मशीनगन से शत्रु को मध्यम दर्जे की मशीनगन को व्यस्त 
किए गए थे, 5tt लान्स नायक और राइफलमनों ने पेट के बल भागे 
चलकर शत्रु के मशीनगन चलाने वालों को मार गिराया पौर 
उनकी मशीनगन ले पाए । 

सकगड लेफ्टि० टण्डन तथा उनके सैनिकों ने प्रसाधारण 
साहस और दृढ़ निश्चयपूर्वक शत्रु के प्राक्रमण का डट कर सामना 
किया और लगभग 300 से अधिक चीनी सैनिकों को मार गिराया । 

8. जे संr _ 10211 सूबेदार उदय सिंह रावत , 

___ गढ़वाल राइफल्स । 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिमि - 17 * WZ 1962 ) 

17 FTPT 1962 को सूबेदार उदय ।सह नेफा में नूरनांग 
के निकट गढ़वाल राइफल्स की एक प्लाटून की कमान सम्भाले 
हए थे । उनकी प्लाटून उस कम्पनी के बाएं बाजू पर तैनात थी 
जो उस स्थान की रक्षा " FT रही थी । अरुणोदय होने पर चीनियों 
ने अग्रिम प्लाटून के स्थान पर भारी मार और छोटे हथियारों 
से आक्रमण किया I ^ MMI fRST ^rr fen Tm I 8 बजे 
चीनियों ने प्लाटून पर न ओर से और भारी संख्या में हमला 
किया । उनके पाक्रमण विफल कर दिया गया मौर शत्रु 
के अनेक सैनिक मारे गए । लगभग 11 5T 5PJ HIdAT के मोर्चे 
से 30 - 40 TT % "TT ; ATf WR एक मीडियम मधीनगन ले 
पाए और उन्होंने हमारी हल्की मशीनगनों और सैक्शन चौकी 
के मोर्चे को विफल करने का प्रयत्न f^ RTI * J&<S.I रावत ने अनु 
भव किया कि शत्र की मीडियम मशीनगन को ग्रेनेडों से नष्ट करना 
जरूरी है । अपने कम्पनी काडर से सलाह करने के बाद, सूबेदार 
TTW ने एक लांस नायक तथा दो राइफलमैनों को शत्रु की मशीन 
गन को नष्ट करने को भेजा | "3 1 < रावत तथा उनके कम्पनी 
कमाण्डर स्वयं अपनी हल्की मशीनगनों से शत्रु की मध्यम मशीनगन 
के चालकों को व्यस्त रखे रहे और लान्स नायक तथा राइफलमैन 
पेट के बल चल कर आगे बढ़े और उन्होंने ग्रेनेड फैक कर मध्यम 
मशीनगन चलाने वालों को मार fen तथा मशीनगन को वापस 
ले पाए । इस प्रयत्न में एक ATRT नायक तथा एक राइफलमैन मारे 

ने कम्पनी के बाए आजू 
की रक्षा PY tfR ^ fft रक्षात्मक स्थान की ओर आगे बढ़ने 
से रोक रखा । 

इस कार्यबाही के मध्य सूबेदार उदय सिंह रावत ने धैर्य, 
निश्चय एवं उच्चकोटि के नेतृत्व TT " rfrfer । 


इस कार्यवाही में राइफलमैन बाजीराम IIT ने साहस , 
दृढ़ निश्चय, एवं उच्चकोटि की सूझबूझ का परिचय दिया । 
7. सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेन्ट सुरेन्द्र नाथ टण्डन ( माई सी 

12691 ), गढ़वाल राइफल्स । 
( पुरस्कार को प्रभावी तिमि --- 17 ^ wtT 1962 ) 
सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेण्ट टण्डन , गढ़वाल राइफल्स को एक कम्पनी 
की , जो नेफा में जंग एवं नरनाग के बीच पुल के निकट रक्षात्मक 
स्थिति सम्भाले हुए थी , कमान कर रहे थे । उस भूखण एवं रक्षात्मक 
ग्यवस्था की प्रकृति के कारण सेकण्ड लेफ्टिनेन्ट टान की कम्पनी 


गए 


PAKT I — SEC . 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11. 1964/PAUSA 21, 1885 


___ 13 


थी । 


18 


9. फ्लाइट लेफ्टिनेन्ट आगाा = pter fofit ( 4438 ). 

का मार्गदर्शन करते रहे । 10 अक्तूबर 1961 को जब काम चल 
जनरल ड्यूटी ( पायलट ) 

रहा गा , तब पहाड़ी का एक बड़ा खण्ड टूट कर गिर qtTI नायक 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिथि - 18 नवम्बर 1962) 

गोविन्द राम ने अपनी जान का खतरा उठा कर अपने कर्मचारियों 
फ्लाइट लेफ्.ि कृष्णा कांत सैनी नेफा में 1960 ^ उड़ान 

को आगाह किया और इस प्रकार उनकी जानें मचाई, लेकिन इस 
भरते रहे f | 18 नवम्बर 1962 ?t t > F INfWY पायलट 

काम में वे अपनी ft जान से हाथ धो बैठे । उनकी वीरता और 
के साथ वातांग क्षेत्र से हमारे घायल सैनिक - 

त्याग की भावना भारतीय सेना को सर्वोत्कृष्ट परम्परा के अनुकूल 

गये । 
उन्हें हेलीकाप्टर उतरने की एक प . 

काप्टर 
उतारना ला तथा सूचना दी गई कि वह पट्टी दुश्मनों के खतरे 

2835356 जमादार बाष सिंह, 18 बटालियन , 
से सुरक्षित है । जब वे पट्टी पर पहुँचे ? चीनी फौजों ने पारों 

राजपुताना राइफल्स । 
ओर से उनके हेलीकाप्टर पर गोलियों की बौछार की । उनके 
हेलीकाप्टर में कई जगह गोलियां लगीं tfk मुस्प रिडक्टर को भी 

( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिथि--- 4 मनम्बर 1962 ) 
क्षति पहुंची तथा उसमें से पेट्रोल फब्बारे की तरह निकलने लगा जिसने . 2 नवम्बर 1962 को जमादार ( उस समय हबलदार ) 
उन्हें एक JTVR से अन्धा ही बना दिया । लोहे के टुकड़े से उनके बाघ सिंह मणिपुर के प्रशान्त क्षेत्र में कार्य कर रहे ये वे अपने 
दाहिने टखने में चोट लगी जिससे अत्यधिक खुन निकलने लगा । टुकड़ी ^ HIT , ^ TFT में विद्रोहियों के कुख्यात सरदार को पकड़ने 
महान् दृढ़ निश्चप , प्रत्युत्पन्नमति एवं कुशलता पूर्वक वह हेलीकाप्टर भेजा गया । ऊबड़ खाबड़ रास्ता तय करके टुकड़ी it * पहुंची 
को शत्रु की मोसाबारी से और wfir होने से बचाने के लिये उसे और उसने विद्रोहियों के चारों ओर घेरा डाल दिया । विद्रोही 
भूमि की सतह के पास तक ले आये । उन्होंने हेलीकाप्टर और टुकड़ी के सैनिको ar Ttf ?fTt छोड़ते हुए दो दिशामं भागे । 

समें TOT ? p य लोगों की जान बचा ली । जमादार बाष सिंह ने विद्रोहियों का एक साथ पीछा 
द्रव्यमालित-यन्त्र ( हाइड्रो - RIWH) Ti orfir पहुंचने तया अपनी टुकड़ी को दो भागों में बांटा । एफ 

फेंका । 
व्यक्तिगत wnrror होने पर ift वह हेलीकाप्टर को कुशलतापूर्वक जिससे जमादार बाघसिंह "TTOTTAT ATT । जमावार माप सिंह ने 
पुनः प्रारम्भिक स्थान तक वापस ले आये । 

भी गोली चालाई, जिससे विद्रोहियों का सरदार घायल हो गया , 
फलाइट लेफ्टि . सैनी ने साहस , दृढ़ निश्चय और उच्च लेकिन उसने अचानक नीचे गहरी घाटी में छलांग लगा दी । 
कोटि की राम कुशलता का परिचय दिया । 

जमादार बाप सिंह ने ft बिना हिचकिचाए सुरन्त उसके पीछे 
10. 4529486 हवलदार गोविन्द काम्बले , 

छलांग लगा दी और उसके साथ मुठभेड़ करके उसे अपने काबू में 
महार रेजिमेन्ट ( मरणोत्तर ) 

कर लिया । इन विद्रोहियंY पास से कुछ Af ^ HTR, बारद और 
( पुरस्कारकी snmft feftr - 18 नवम्बर 1962 ) 

फोटोग्राफ बरामद हुए । 
महार रेजिमेन्ट के हवलदार गोविन्द काम्बले सिख लाइट 

इस कार्यवाही में जमादार बाघ सिंह ने असाधारण साहस , 
इन्फेन्ट्री के अन्तर्गत कम्पनी की सक्रिय कमान के उस मीडियम 

प्रत्युत्पन्नमति और कर्तव्य परायणता का प्रदर्शन किया । 
मशीनगन मेक्शन की कमान कर रहे थे जो नेफा में सेला की अग्रिम 
ढलानों पर गढ़वाल राइफल्स की एक बटालियन के पीछे हटने 3. मेजर प्रीतम सिंह ग्रेवाल ( आई सी - 5611) 8 बटालियन , 
पर रक्षा कर रही थी ।. 18, नवम्बर, 1962 को चीनी सेनाओं 

गोरखा राइफल्स । 
ने इस कम्पनी की चौकी पर आक्रमण किया । इसके दक्षिण में 

( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिषि - - 3 मई 1963 ) 
बटालियन के कुछ क्षेत्र में शत्रु का अधिकार हो गया । हवल 

मेजर प्रीतम सिंह ग्रेवाल को , जबकि ये लामोस में अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय 
दार काम्बसे TC दो मीडियम मशीनगनों के संचालन की PndTTI 

निरीक्षण ?fk नियंत्रण प्रायोग में कार्य कर 7 $ ^, 3 T ^ 1963 
थी sftr t दुश्मन के अन्धाधुन्ध गोलियों की परवाह करते हुए 

को खान - दुर्घटना में मृत फ्रांसीसी सैनिक " FT Mr लाने के लिए 
एक बाई सेसरी खाई में आ जा रहे थे । इस तरह माने जाने 
में उनके पैर मार्टर के टुकड़ों से अकमी हो गये और वे प्रागे चलने 

एक दल का नेतjq " ^ RA " कहा गया । । 
फिरने के न रह सके । वह मीडियम मशीनगन "ft TT ? दल जिसके 15qदस्य थे ( हेलिकाप्टर कर्मचारी तथा सम्पर्क 
में घिसट इसी समय कम्पनी fit वापस लौटने का आदेश अधिकारी सहित ) दो हेलिकाप्टरों IKT दोपहर बाद निर्धारित 
दिया गया । हवलदार काम्बले ने अपने ^ rrif को सुरक्षित स्थान पर पहुंचा । जब फ्रांसीसी सैनिक FT 5ाव ढूंढकर हेलिकाप्टर 
स्थान में लौटने को कहा और स्वयं रक्षात्मक गोली चलाते रहे __ में रखा TIT « n Aft fASTTATE - HJO *fk स्वचालित रा फलों 
जिससे वे शत्रु से अलग हो गये । वे स्वयं अपने प्राघातों के कारण । से गोलाबारी शुरू TT if | ? W % it TrttijFF सदस्यों को छोड़कर 
मृत्यु को प्राप्त हुये । 

सब भाड़ में St T ^ 1 *faR ^ r ? r % T ^ tr# ^ PF it असैनिक 
शत्रु के सम्मुख हवलदार गोविन्द काम्बले ने साहस, कसंव्य 

TOT AT AR-I* ! N1*. .., jft wW iR7 एक मार्टर बम के लगन 
परायणता और सर्वोच्च बलिदान की भावना का परिचय दिया । 

के कारण जल .रहा था , निकट खुले में पड़े हुए हैं , अपनी जान को 
सं० +- प्रेमा64 - राष्ट्रपति निम्नांकित व्यक्तियों को उनकी वीरता 

खतरे में डालते हुए उनको सुरक्षित स्थान पर लाने के लिये दौड़े 
के लिये " अशोक चक्र " तृतीय श्रेणी प्रदान करने का अनुमोदन 

जबकि उस स्थान पर स्वचालित हथियारों JRT गोलाबारी हो 

रही «t I # ^ _ ija , के पीछे लगभग 20 qjट दूरी पर एक 
करते है : 

मार्टर बम फटा जिससे उनकी पीठ पर अनेक घाव हो गये । इसके 
1. 1406843 नायग गोविन्द TFT , 

बावजूद वे घायल व्यक्तियों को वहां से हटाने तथा उनकी चिकित्सा 
कोर lira इंजीनियर्स ( मरणोत्तर ) 

का प्रबन्ध करने के लियेनिकटतम गांव में गए । 
( पुरस्कार की प्रभावी तिषि - 10 अक्तूबर 1961) 

मेजर ग्रेवाल ने जिस साहस , पहलणक्सि और दृढ़ता से 
पोयिता क्षेत्र में नायफ गोविन्द राम पर सड़क बनने के 

परिस्थिति TT iii fer, वह भारतीय सेना की सर्वोत्कृष्ट 
लिये बास्त से पटाने प्रादि उड़ाने और मशीनों का संचालन करने 

परम्परा के अनुकूल बा । 
की जिम्मेदारी ft | जोजिला की सीषी ऊंची सड़क का 250 
गज WI ला ft उन्हीं के जिम्मे «ITI ? ?TUTT में वे किसी 

सुविमल दस 
भी खतरे की परवाह किए बिना निरीक्षण और जांच अधिकारियों 

राष्ट्रपति का सचिव 
LG2070I/ 63 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 11, W64/PAUSA 21 , 1885 


[PA * TI - SEC. I 


अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय व्यापार मंत्रालय 
नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 23 * PIMR 1963 

टैरिफ 

संकल्प 
सं० 5 ( 1 ) -दर। 63-~- टैरिफ आयोग ने रिफ प्रायोग 
अधिनियम, 1951 ?fr « nrr n ( 3 ) और धारा 13 के अधीन 
अपने द्वारा की गई जांच के आधार पर पावर तथा डिस्ट्रिब्यूशन 
ट्रांसफार्मर उद्योग को दिये गये संरक्षण को जारी रखने ip भारे में 
अपनी रिपोर्ट दे दी है । इसकी सिफारिशें इस TOTf > 
( 1 ) ट्रांसफार्मर उद्योग को दिया TIT * KtHI 31 दिसम्बर, 

1965 - समाप्त होने वाले दो वर्ष की अतिरिक्त 
- - के लिये वर्तमान शुल्क दर पर जारी रसा 
आना चाहिये और उच्च वोल्टता वाले 50,000 किलो 
वोल्ट एम्पियर और 220 किलोवाट तक के पायर 
तथा डिस्ट्रिब्यूशन ट्रान्सफार्मर और ऐसे ट्रान्सफार्मरों 
के जो अन्यथा उल्लिखित नहीं है भाग संरक्षण की संयोजना 

में सम्मिलित कर लिये जाने चाहिये । 
( 2) सरकार को हैवी इलैक्ट्रिकल लि०, भोपाल की क्षमता 

दुगुनी करने का कार्यक्रम पूरा करना चाहिये और उसकी 
ट्रान्सफार्मर क्षमता के अतिरिक्त विस्तार के लिये 
योजनायें प्रारम्भ करनी चाहिएं । सरकार वर्तमान 
उत्पादकों को उनकी क्षमता के अतिरिक्त विस्तार 
के लिए उन्हें अधिमान "ft दे सकती है और उसे इस 
उद्योग की क्षमता बढ़ाने के लिये पर्याप्त समय पूर्व 
कदम उठाने चाहिये जिससे कमी की परिस्थिति उत्पन्न 

न हो । 
( 3 ) सरकार को इस बात के लिये अविलम्ब और प्रभावपूर्ण 

कदम उठाने चाहिय ff > ¥T % HT AT 5W?T 1966 से 
ट्रान्सफार्मर प्रड बिजली की चादरों के इस्पात के 
उत्पादन की योजना है वह कोल्ड Tts ग्रेन प्रोरिएन्टेड 
किस्म का T1 इस आशय के प्राश्वासन से यह 
परिवर्तन होने में अधिक सहायता मिलेगी कि उत्पादक 

इस सामग्री का और fr jpfrr करने लगे । 
( 4 ) सरकार को इन्सुलेटर उद्योग का सर्वेक्षण करना चाहिये 

और यदि यह TPIT जाता है कि बुशिंगों की वर्तमान 
क्षमता बढ़ाया जाना और विविधीकरण अपेक्षित है 

तो शीघ्रतम अवसर पर ऐसा कर दिया जाय । 
( 5 ) इस्पात के पाबंटन के मामले में इस उद्योग को उच्चतर 

पूर्ववर्तिता ti जानी प.हिये । 
( 6) केन्द्रीय जल WT विद्युत प्रायोग को सी० आर० जी० 

प्रो० चादरों के उपयोग के नफों के बारे में राज्य विद्युत 
गोडों तथा अन्य उपभोक्तामों को पावश्यक जानकारी 
देनी चाहिये और उन्हें यह सलाह देनी चाहिये PF के 

ऐसी चादरों वाले ट्रान्सफार्मरों को अधिमान दें । 
( 7) केन्द्रीय जल तथा विद्युत प्रायोग को चाहिये कि वह डिस्ट्रि- 

म्यूशन ट्रान्सफार्मरों के यथा संभव सम्पूर्ण तथा न केवल 
अधिमान्य प्राकारों की बाबत ही अपितु एल . टी . 
वोल्टेजों, टैपिंगों, इम्पल्स लैवेल , फिटिंगों, साइजों 

आदि की बाबत भी छोटे पावर ट्रांस्फर्मरों के कुछ 
विस्तार तक मानकीकरण के अपने प्रयत्नों में तीव्रता 
लाये । राज्य tl < * 10f, विद्युत बोडो और विद्युत 
उपक्रमों को भी इस प्रयास में जो उपभोक्ता एवं उत्पादक 
दोनों के लिये सारभूत नफाप्रद है सहयोग देने में कोई 
कसर नहीं उठा रखनी चाहिये । 


( a) ऐसी स्थिति से दूर रहने के लिये जिसमें समय पर सम्मरण 

न मिलने के कारण उद्योग को हानि उठानी पड़े, सरकार 
चादर इस्पात के और अधिक प्रायात के लिये अनुज्ञा 
दे सकती है U उत्पादकों को स्टाक से 3TR की समनशा 

उदारता से दे सकती है । 
( 9) द्रान्सफार्मरों के उत्पादकों को चाहिये N अल्पतम 

संभाव्य समय में कोल्ड रोल्ड ग्रेन मौरिएन्टेड ( सी० 
भार . जी . मो० ) IKOf का उपयोग करने लगे । 
पायात किये गये कच्चे माल का संभरण ऐसे विनियमित 
किया जाना चाहिये जिससे सी० भार . जी . मो० 
पापरों के प्रपनाये जाने से संगत और अधिक प्रभावपूर्ण 
उपयोग सुनिश्चित हो जाय । सरकार सी० मार०पी० 
मो० चादरों का प्रयोग भारंभ करने भौर हाट रोल्स 
चादरों के मायात में कमी करने के लिये कमव प्रोग्राम 

बनाने "IT * ft विचार करे । 
( 10 ) $i* rai 0 ^ ^ n ^ f it अपने ही हित की वृष्टि 

से बुशिंगों , विशिष्टतया निम्नतर वोल्टेजों की दुशिंगों 
के प्राकारों और रूपांकनों की संख्या कम करने में 
अपना पूर्ण सहयोग देना चाहिये तथा उन्हें बुशिंग विनि 
मर्मातामों से अपने कार्यक्रम की योजना पर्याप्त समय 
पहिले HT लेनी चाहिये । 
IICH विद्युत पारेषण और वितरण तन्त्र में ट्रान्सफार्मर 
निरंतर सेवा के अध्यधीन अधिकतम विश्वसनीयता 
की अपेक्षा रखने वाली एक प्रावश्यक कडी है, अत : 
उत्पादक «fft चाहिये कि वे उनके fVfHITI के दौरान 
और उनकी पैकिंग में सम्यक् सावधानी बरतें जिससे 

कि छोटी - छोटी शिकायतों का भी मौका न पाने पाये । 
( 12 ) उत्पादकों को चाहिये कि वे मानकों के अनुरूप न बनें 

ट्रान्सफार्मरों के मुकाबले में मानक विशिष्टियों वाले 
ट्रान्सफार्मरों की कीमतें कम रखें जिससे कि मानकीकरण 

के उद्देश्य की पूर्ति के लिये प्रोत्साहन मिल सके । 
( 13) यतः ट्रान्सफार्मरों को ऊंची कीमतों के फलस्वरूप विद्युत 

की लागत भी बढ़ जायेगी प्रतः ट्रान्सफार्मरों के 
उत्पादकों और इनके विकास से सम्परत सभी को कीमतें 

कम करने के ftpr हर प्रयत्न करना चाहिये । 
2. सरकार सिफारिश ( 1 ) को स्वीकार करती है । टैरिफ 
आयोग ने विद्युत और वितरण ट्रान्सफार्मरों के सम्बन्ध में जिस शुल्क 
की सिफारिश की है, AT WIST भारत के गजट में ATIT 3 % अधीन 
अलग से एक अधिसूचना प्रकाशित करके तत्काल प्रवृत्त किया जा रहा 
है । मावश्यक विधान भी सम्यक अनुक्रम में बनाया जायेगा । 

3. + 1 < *T < ने सिफारिश ( 2 ) से लेकर सिफारिश ( 8 ) तक 
की सब सिफारिशों को भी ध्यान में रख लिया है और उन्हें कार्यान्वित 
करने के लिये यावत्स्य कदम उठाये जायेंगे । 

4 ट्रान्सफार्मरों के उत्पादकों का ध्यान सिफारिया ( 9) की 
पोर दिलाया 5ncrrl ? nrr सरकार ने भी जहां तक संभव होगा वहां 
तक उस TT प्रावश्यक कार्यवाही करने के लिये उसे « SFT C रख लिया 
है । 

5. iJI ^ WAOi % ^ TPW?f PT ^IH ftmfOT ( 10 ) 
से लेकर सिफारिश (13) i ^ P ^t w ^ R)* ir ilf की भोर भी दिलाया 
जाता है । 

प्रादेश 
प्रादेश दिया जाता है PP W संकल्प को भारत के गजट में 
प्रकाशित किया जाय और इसकी प्रतिलिपि सब सम्पक्स म्पणिसपों । 
संस्थानों को भेजी जाये । 


T 


Part Iisut . I] 


tHE GAZETTE OFINDIA, JANUARY 11 , 1964/ PAUSA 21 , 1885 


वैरफि 

उद्योग के साप ही किया जायेगा जिसका संरक्षण 31 
सं० 5 ( 1 ) - 183 - भारतीय टैरिफ अधिनियम , 1934 

दिसम्बर, 1967 को समाप्त होना है । 
( 1934 FT 32 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) प्रक्स ( 3 ) हल्के इंजीनियरी उद्योग के लिये देवी कच्ची सामग्री 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा निदेश देती । - का उपबन्ध करने के महत्व को दृष्टि में रखकर नये मित्र 
है कि इसी समय से प्रभाव रखते हुए , इस अधिसूचना से उपायब सारणी 

धातु इस्पात संयन्त्रों से सम्मरण देने में डीजल पथूस 
के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) में उल्लिखित चीजों पर, जबकि वे भारत में मायात की 

इंजेक्शन उपकरण उद्योग को पूर्ववर्तितादीmसकती है । 
जायें . सीमा शल्क की उतनी रकम उदग्रहीत की जाएगी जितनी ससके ( 4 ) विनिर्मातामों को भारतीय मानक संस्था की प्रमाणीकरण 
स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टि में उल्लिखित है । 

चिह्न संयोजना को अपना लेना चाहिये जिससे कि उनके 

उत्पादों को गुणावस्था की सामान्य स्वीकृति सुनिश्चित 
सारणी 

हो जाय । 
सीमा शुल्क की रकम ( 5 ) इस उद्योग ने जिस भावना से प्रेरित होकर पहिले कीमतों 
( भारतीय टैरिफ 

में कमी की थी , उसी भावना से उसे कीमतों में भौर 
अधिनियम , 1934 

अधिक कमी करके उपभोक्ता की सेवा करते रहना 
चीजों के नाम 

( 1934 TT 32 ) 

पाहिये । 
की प्रथम प्रमुसूची में ( e) ऐसे उद्योग के नाते जो संरक्षण से विकसित हुमा है, 
उल्लिखित शुल्क के 

इसे अपनी पैदावार अधिक से अधिक बढ़ाने में और उन 
स्थान में ) 

विलम्बों से बनते हए जिनके कारण सोकोपयोगी उपक्रमों 

में बाषा परती है सारी वर्तमान मांग की पूर्ति करने के 
उच्य बोल्टता वाले 10, 000 pp° ^to ए . 

प्रयत्नों में कोई कसर नहीं gar रखनी चाहिये । 
मौर 132 ftro tot ^rfkrr % faij उच्च 

2. itvie- सिफारिश ( 1) को स्वीकार करती ftI भाषश्यक 
वोल्टता वासे 50 , 000 p o ^ fo tl[o 

विषान यथासमय बनाया जायेगा । 
और 220 ftro ^ ffo gq f ^ F % ( sntPw 10 प्रतिशत 

3. सरकार ने सिफारिश ( 2 ) को ध्यान में रस लिया है । 
वोल्टेज 250 % ^ iftT ?t) "IRI मूल्यानुसार 

___ 4. सरकार ने सिफारिश ( 3 ) को भी ध्यान में रख लिया 
तपा सिस्ट्रिब्यूशन ट्रान्सफार्मर और ऐसे ट्रान्स 

और उ % कार्यान्वित करने के लिये यावशक्य कदम उठाये जायेंगे । 
फार्मरों के जो अन्यथा उल्लिखित नहीं हैं भाग 
जिनके अन्तर्गत फर्नेस, रेक्टीफायर और फ्लेम . 

5. सिफारिश ( 4) से लेकर सिफारिश ( e ) ?mp की 1 

सिफारिशों की पोर डीजल फयूल इंजेक्शन उपकरण उद्योग का ध्यान 
प्रूफ ट्रान्सफार्मर नहीं है । 

दिलाया जाता है । 
टिप्पण : - शंका निवारण के लिये एतदद्वारा यह स्पष्ट किया जाता है 

मावेश 
कि उक्त चीजें भारतीय टैरिफ अधिनियम , 1934 ( 1934 

आदेश दिया जाता है कि इस संकल्प को भारत के गजट 
का 32 ) की धारा 2क के अधीन जिस सीमा शुल्क के , 

प्रकाशित किया जाय और इसकी प्रतिलिपि संम्पृक्त व्यक्ति 
यदि कोई हो , दायित्वाधीन हैं वह सीमा शुल्क और वित्त 

संस्थानों को भेजी जाये । 
मधिनियम , 1963 ( 1 9 6 3 ^ 13 ) At ^TIT 23 की 

सी . एस . राम 
उपधारा ( 1 ) % snfnr उद्ग्रहणीय अधिभार उस शुल्क 

संयुक्त सचिव 
के अतिरिक्त होंगे जो इस अधिसूचना के अधीन उदग्रहणीय 

योजना भायोग 
एच . डी० शोरी 

TI fff , fr}Ne Mfr 1964 
संयुक्त सचिव 

सं° 04 -( 92 )163 -IRn* R- - राष्ट्रपति ने योजना 
प्रायोग 

डी . जैन को 20 
टेरिफ 

दिसम्बर , 1963 ( ^ tgf ) W ^ ^T «T » RT प्रादेश मिलने तक 

आयोग में प्रभाग के सहायक प्रमुख के पद पर नियुक्त 
संकल्प 

किया है । 
नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 25 iqJ-6K 1963 

प्रार० एम . कान्तराजन , 
सं० 8( 2) - 2016 - टैरिफ प्रायोग ने टैरिफ प्रायोग अधि 

प्रवर सचिव 
नियम , 195 I( 195ITT SO ) ^tmrr 11 (i) मोर धारा 13 

परिवहन मंत्रालय 
के अधीन अपने द्वारा की गई जांच के आधार पर डीजल फ्यूल इंजेक्शन 
उपकरण उद्योग का संरक्षण जारी रखने के बारे में अपनी रिपोर्ट दे दी 

( परिवहन पक्ष ) 
हैं । उसकी सिफारियों इस प्रकार है : - - 
( 1 ) सिंगस सिलिएर फ्यूल इंजेक्शन पम्पों , नोजल होल्डरों 

संकल्प 
और पुर्जी को 31 दिसम्बर, 1963 को समाप्त होने 

नई दिल्ली, दिनांक 4 जनवरी 1964 
वाली ^ TOTT की वर्तमान - की समाप्ति के 

सं0 6 - ^ 0 ifto ( 65 ) 163 – भारत TORTi | कोचीन 
पश्चात् प्रागे संरक्षण की कोई आवश्यकता नहीं है । पत्तन की 1962 - 63 iff WRffi रिपोर्ट प्राप्त 1 if $ I. इस रिपोर्ट 
( 2 ) मल्टी सिलिन्डर पम्पों TT संरक्षण विविधीकृत पुर्जी 

के महत्त्वपूर्ण तथ्य नीचे दिये गये हैं : -- 
के उत्पादन की दृष्टि से और संरक्षित मोटो मोबाइल ___ 1. fiwfit स्पिति 
उद्योग के हित में 31 f. n. n:, 1967 तक भारी ( क ) पतन निषि - + vfift खाते को छोड़कर पतन की 
रखा जाना चाहिये । मल्टी सिलिन्डर पम्पों के संरक्षण राजस्व प्राय इस वर्ष 136 - 63 लाख रुपये हुई इसके विपरीत 1961 
को जारी रखने के सवाल का पुनर्विलोकन भौटो मोबाइल 62 ^ 130 16 लाख रुपये की आय | f <ir 1 आय में वृद्धि होने 


16r 


TTA 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA, JAtffljARY 11, 1964/PAUSA 21 , 1885 [ PART I — SEC . 1 
मुख्य कारण यह पा far sitfta TTforf और घाटों और जमीन व फीट डबाव वाला मोटर टेंकर कीवी नामक जहाज़ सबसे अधिक 
इमारतों से अधिक प्राय हुई । 

दबाव वाला जहाज था । 
____ कनहारी खाते और सुरक्षित निषियों तथा पूंजी खाते में दिये 3. श्रमिक 
ये सर्च को बोरकर विचाराधीन वर्ष में 126 - 25 लाख रुपये का 

पुस्तकालय तथा वाचनालय , घर के अन्दर तथा बाहर खेले 
व्यय हुआ जबकि 1961- 62 3 149 - 62 लाख रुपये खर्च हुए वाले खेल , चिकित्सा सहायता, इत्यादि जैसी सुविधाएं पूर्ववत् 
थे । "fi£sra लिए गए भारत सरकार के ऋण को चुकाने के फलस्वरूप दी जाती रहीं । ये सुविषाएं भारिकों ^ -»r ?t गयीं । 
ऋण प्रदायगी के रूप में किये गये व्यय if spft j[t% % TRT इस 4. पूंजी निर्माण कार्य 
वर्ष वर्ष में कमी हुई । 

*T * TTNT 1955 में जिन अतिरिक्त चार 
io लाख रुपये पूंजी खाते में दिए गए wiaf rfafcramशियां घाट गोदियों का निर्माण संबंधित सुविधाओं सहित, शुरू किया 
विभिन्न सुरक्षित निषियों ft दी गयीं : - - 

गया था वह अब पूरा होने वाला । इसके अलावा पिछले वर्ष 

रुपये सालों में के अन्त में कर्मचारियों के जिन मकानों FT निर्माण कार्य जारी था 
राजस्व सुरक्षित निषि 

1 00 वह पूरा हो गया है | विलिंगठन द्वीप में कोचीन पत्तन अस्पताल के 
दुर्षटना निषि 

0 * 99 विस्तार का निर्माण कार्य , पुलिस के सिपाहियों के लिए मकान बनाने 
नवीकरण तथा प्रतिस्थापन निधि 

2 98 का काम तथा विलिंगठन द्वीप में सड़कों के निर्माण कार्य में , काफी 
( ब ) महारी जाता . 1962 -63 व कुल प्राय और प्रगति हुई $ i 
व्यय क्रमश : 5 92 <TIO Fw sftr 4 39 लाख रुपये हुई 

5 कर्मचारियों के लिए सुविधाएं 
और इस प्रकार i 5 3 ^ r स्ख रुपये का लाभ हुमा । 

विचाराधीन वर्ष में पत्तन के कर्मचारियों के बच्चों को दी 
( ग ) सुरक्षित विभिन्न निधियों में इतिशेष की 

गयी छात्र त्तियों की संख्या 66 थी । 
स्थिति में संतोषजनक रही । 

भारत सरकार कोचीन पत्तन के इस वर्ष के काम की भी 

सराहना करती है । 
___ ( w ) ^ T : Rc-JRIiffr ril ^ 19 24 ^TW रुपये का ऋण 

मावेश 
काया TUT I प्रT ^ 71 " 74 WW Wq W ^77 चकाया गया 

आवेश ferrTIT $ far इस संकल्प की एक - एक srftf सभी 
था i vn NTfr ^ TWI STO ? RTn: ift ^ r n inn so लाख 
रुपये का ऋण भी शामिल है 

मंबंधित कार्यालयों । दी जाए और TTTTOV के राजपत्र 
को लगभग 

में भी यह प्रकाशित किया जाए । 
349 सास रुपये का ऋण पुकाना बाका ह जिसम सr 291 लाख 

गोपाल वेंकटेश्वर अय्यर , 
रुपये का ऋण भारत सरकार का है और शेष केरल सरकार का । 

सचिव 
2. यातायात 

सूचना मौर 
( क ) व्यापार : 1962- 63 में इस पत्तन के रास्ते 1959 

मंत्रालय 
लाख टन माल का आयात किया गया जबकि पिछले वर्ष 1878 

नई ft.fl- 2,feft 6 ^ff^ Rt1964 
लाख टन माल पायात किया T IT (T ;ifh: w SRTR 0 • 82 लाग्य 
नया 25 प्रतिशत अधिक माल का आयात हमा । मस्पत : 

राष्ट्रीय एकता और भावात्मक समन्वय | 
कोयले . काज , चीनी , मशीनें , कोप्रा और खाद के आयात में वृद्धि हुई । 

सर्वोत्तम काथा-चित्र के लिए नकद पुरस्कार 
चावल और अन्य खाद्यान्नों , रसायनों , नमक और कपास के आयात 

सं० 715418एफ ( माई ) - देश में गष्ट्रीय एकता , 
में कमी हुई । 

और भावात्मक समन्वय को बढ़ावा देने वाले कथा -चित्रों के निर्माण 
1962- 63 - 4 03 लाख टन माल का निर्यात Mr गया । 

को प्रोत्साहन देने के लिए सरकार ने 20, 000 रुपये का नगर 
पिछले वर्ष की अपेक्षा इस वर्ष के निर्यात ^ 0 . 0 4 लाख टन की कमी 

पुरस्कार प्रारम्भ किया % 1 
हुई । कच्ची बात , नारियल , कोप्रा, नारियल के तेल और कच्चे मत 

2. यह पुरस्कार कैलेंडर वर्ष 1 9 6 4 केन्द्रीय फ़िल्म 
का मुख्यतः कम निर्यात हुआ । काजू-गिरी, चाय और काज़ के 

मेमर बाई gixr सार्वजनिक प्रदर्शन के लिए प्रमाणित फ़िल्मों 
धिलके के तेल , रबड़ और झींगी के निर्यात में वृद्धि हुई । 

में # उपरोक्त विषय के सर्वोत्तम कथा-चित्रको दिया जायेगा । 
( स ) यात्रियों का प्रावागमन : विचाराधीन वर्ष में इस पत्तन 

3. पुरस्कार के लिए प्रविष्टियों की fafa सरकार निर्धा 
पर पाने तथा यहां से जाने वाले यात्रियों की संख्या क्रमशः 1646 

पित करेगी , जो दिसम्बर , 1964 में अधिसचित की जायेगी । 
और 1690 पो जबकि गत वर्ष ये संख्यायें क्रमश;1400 और 

4. पुरस्कार के पात्र केवल वे ही चित्र होंगे , जिन्हें भाग्न 
1601 थीं । 

मरकार के सूचना ?fk Wrरण मंत्रालय 5TH प्रदत्त फ़िल्मों के 
( ग ) जहाजरानी : 1962 - 634 " qp =TTim को छोड़ कर 

लिए कोई राजकीय पुरस्कार प्राप्त हुआ होगा या Mt पुरस्कार के 

लिए प्रविष्टि भजने की तारीख तक 12 सप्ताह चल चुकी होंगी । 
इस पसन TC 44 80 लाख टन धारिता के 1. 330 जहाज पाये , 
पिछले वर्षे 43 io ^ we! T . « nftsrr * 1,342 जहाज पाये थे । 

5. इस पुरस्कार के लिए फिल्मों की JIftffe TT भारत 

सरकार के सूचना और प्रमारण मंत्रालय के संकल्प संख्या 714163 
इस वर्ष लगभग 16000 ^ ^ f ^ r % 131 पालपोत इस पत्तन 
पर आये । इसके विपरीत 1961 - 62 * ^ ^ 15 , 000 ^ 

एफ ( माई ), दिनांक 9 -1 -1963 में अधिसूचित और समय -समय 
घारिता के 12वालपtaमाये । 

पर संशोधित RITT यथोषित परिवर्तन सहित लागू होंगे, जो फ़िल्मों 

के राजकीय पुरस्कार के संबंध में लागू होते हैं । 
इस वर्ष इस पत्तन पर पाने वाले जहाजों में 704 फीट सम्पूर्ण 

प्राधेश 
लम्बाई वाला माई० एन० एस० विक्रान्त नामक नौसैनिक जहाज 

आदेश दिया जाता है कि सर्वमाधारण के सचनार्ष यह 
सबसे लम्बा था और 6i0 फीट सम्पूर्ण सम्बाई वाला 20586 टन संकल्प TOT के राजपत्र में प्रकाशित किया जाए । 
का एस एस आक्सफोर्ड नामक जहाज wtff लम्बा .. .. सबसे 

नवाब सिंह , 
बड़ा जहाज था और इस पत्तन सा आने वाले व्यापारी जहाजों में 32 

सचिय 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
PARIDABAD AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI , 1964 


