EEGI5TERED No. D. OZ 



fnbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 18] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1952 


NOTICr 

The unlormentlonei Gazelles of India Extraordinary were published during (lie week 
ending the 29th April 1952 :■ — 


Issue 

No. 

No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subjeot 

71 

8. R. O. 707, dated the 
19th April 1932. 

Ministry of 

Food anil Agri- 
culture 

The Bombay Hkirn Milk Powder (Con- 
trol on Distribution and Movement) 
Order, 1952, 

72 

8. K. 0. 708, dated the 
22nd April 1952. 

Ditto. 

The Central Advisory Counoil (Proce- 
dural) Rules. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so an to roach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette. 


PART II — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 25 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 734. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ments shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Law No. S.R.O. 215, dated the 9th February, 1952, relating to the execution of 
contracts and assurances of property, namely: — 

1. In Part IX of the said notification, for item 2 under Head C, the following 
item shall be substituted, namely: — 

“2. Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers and exporters in connec- 
tion with the clearance br export of goods; by a Customs Collector 
appointed under section 0 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( VIII of 1878).” 

2. In Part XVII of the said notification, In item 22 under Head A, for the words 
“or Controllers of Stores of Government Railways, the Superintendent, Railway 
Training School , Bina, or the Director, Railway Clearing Accounts", the following 
words shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Controllers of Stores, or Personnel Officers of Government Railways the 
President , Colony Committee, Golden Rock , the Superintendent , 

Railway Training School, Blna, or the Director, Railway Clearing 
Accounts." 


3. In Part XXI of the said notification, under Head G, after entry 9 the follow- 
ing entries shall be added, namely: — 

“10. Leases of land situated within the declared area of a salt factory and 
unfit for salt manufacture, but fit for (a) Grow More Food Campaign, 
(b) Paddy Cultivation, (c) Building Residential* Quarters, (d) Casuarina 
Plantation or (e) any other purpose sanctioned by a competent 
authority; by the Deputy Salt Controller, in Delhi, Madras or Bombay 
or an Assistant Salt Controller within their respective jurisdictions 

[ 701 ] 


702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1902 [Pakt II— Sec. 3 


11. Leases of fishing rights and acceptances of tenders thereof: — 

(a) if the amount or value does not exceed Rs, 5,000 in each case; by the 
Deputy Salt Controller, in Delhi, Madras or Bombay or an Assistant 
Salt Controller within their respective jurisdictions', and 

(h) if such amount or value exceeds Rs. 5,000 in each case; by the Salt 
Controller." 

[No, F. 32-III/52-L,] 
SHRI GOPAL SINGH, Dy. Secy. 

New Delhi, the 30 th April 1952 

S.R.O, 735. — The following direction issued by the President under clause Cl) 
of article 299 of the Constitution is published for general information: — 

“In exercise of the powers conferred by clause <1) of article 299 of the Consti-) 
tutlon, I, Rajendra Prasad, President of India, hereby authorise my Ambassador 
to the United States of America, to execute on my behalf the Loan Agreements 
with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington, to 
be made in exercise of the executive power of the Union of India. I hereby fur- 
ther appoint the Ambassador of India to the United States of America, to act as 
a representative of the Government of India for this purpose and to do all neces- 
sary acts and things on behalf of the Government of India in connection therewith. 
Signed at New Delhi on the twenty fifth day of April, 1952. 

RAJENDRA PRASAD, 
President of India” 
[No. F.32-IV/52-L.] 

S. B. CAPOOR, Joint Secy. 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 736. — Corrigendum. — In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 
S.R.O. 391, dated the 27th February, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Notification) published on pages 364-369 of the Gazette of India, Part II — Section 3, 
dated the 8th Mafch 1952 — 

(1) on page 364, for ihe letters, word and figures “XLV of 1951” within the 

brackets occurring in the preamble to the Punjab Security of the 
State (Amendment) Act, 1951 which forms Annexure I to the said 
Notification read the letters, word and figures “XLVI of 1951" within 
the same brackets. 

(2) on pages 364, 366, and 389 for ‘Ajmer’ occurring in section 2 of the 

Punjab Security of the State (Amendment) Act, 1951 which forms 
Annexure I to the said Notification and in sub-section (2) of section 1 
and in section 15 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which 
forms Annexure II to the said Notification read ‘Delhi’. 

(3) on page 367, for the word ‘uniform’ occurring In sub-section (0) of section 

7 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which forms Annexure 
II to the said Notification read -‘inform’. 

(4) on page 369, for the figures ‘14’ and ‘15’ indicating respectively sections 

14 and 15 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which forms 
Annexure II to the said Notification read ‘15’ and ‘16’ respectively. 

[No. 25/29/51-Poll.] 

S.R.O. 737. — Corrigendum. — In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 
S.R.O. 390, dated the 27th February, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Notification) published on pages 358-363 of the Gazette of India, Part II — Section 3, 
dated the 8th March 1952 — 

(1) on pages 358, 360 and 363 for ‘Delhi’ occurring in section 2 of the 

Punjab Security of the State (Amendment) Act, 1951, which forms 
Annexure I to the said Notification and in sub-section (2) of section 1 
and in section 16 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which 
forms Annexure II to the said Notification read ‘Ajmer’. 

(2) on page 361 for the word ‘uniform’ occurring in sub-section (6) of section 

7 of the Punjab Security of the State Act, 1951 which forms Annexure 
II to the said Notification read ‘inform’. 

[No. 25/29/51-Poll.] 
GAJINDER SINGH, Asstt. Secy. 



Past II— £sc. 3] 'THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1852 


70S 


New Delhi, the 33rd April 1952 

8.R.O. 738. — In exercise of the powers conferred by article 309 of the Constitu- 
tion read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of the Adaptation of 
Laws Order, I960, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ments shall be made in the Rules published with the notification of the Govem- 
. ment of India in the late Home Department No. F,9/19/30-Ests., dated the 27th 
February 1932, namely: — 

In the schedule annexed to the said Rules, under the head “Department of 
Communications”, sub-head “Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department”, heading 
“(A) Services”, and Item “(14) Telegraph Engineering”, for the entry Repeater 
Station Assistants, Observation Supervisors, Telephone Monitors in Selection 
Grade and Line Inspectors”, in column 1 of the schedule, the following shall be 
^substituted, namely: — 

"Repeater Station Assistants, Observation Supervisors, Telephone Monitors 
in Selection Grade, Matrons and Line Inspectors, 

[No. 7/10/52-Ests.] 

8. R. 0.739. — In exeroise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Cons- 
titution, the President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the schedule annexed to notification of the Government of India in the late Horn* Department 
No. F.0/1 1/33-Ests., dated the 9th January 1934, namelyt — 

1. Under the Head “ Customs Department” for the existing entries, the following entries 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

Central Board of Collector of Customs . (i), (ii), (iv) 

Revenue. and (v). 

Central Board of Reven- ^11, 
ue. 

Collector of Ou a- Senior Aastt. Collector of (1), (ii), (iv) 
toms. Customs inoharge of Pre- and (v). 

ventive Department. 

Colleotor of Customs . AH. 

Appraisers . . . CoUeotor of Customs Senior Aastt.. OoUootor of (i), (ii), (iv) 

Customs inoharge Appr- and (v). 
aising Department. 

Colleotor of Customs AH. 

Preventive Inspectors . . CoUeotor of Customs Senior Aastt. Colleotor of (i), (ii), (iv) 

Customs inoharge Pro- and (v). 
ventive Department. 

Colleotor of Customs . All. 

Chief Preventive Offioer, Collector of Customs, Colleotor of Customs, Ooohln (i), (ii), (iv) 
Coohin Customs House. Madras. and (v). 

Colleotor of Customs, Mad- All. 
ras. 

2. Under the Hoad 4 Opium Department’ for the existing entries, the foUowing entries- 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

Aastt. Colleotor (Opium) . ”) Central Board of Central Boad of Revenue . AH. 

Chief Aooounts Officer . Revenue. 

Faotory Engineer 
Laboratory Engineer . 

District. Opium Offloers , ' 

Inspecting Officer (HedHquar- 
tors Office of the Narco- | 
tics Commissioner). 

Manager, Opium Factory, Central Board of Narcotios Commissioner . (i), (ii), (iv) 

Ghazipur. J- Revenue, and (v). 

Asstt. Manager, Opium Fao- I 

tory, Ghazipur. 1 Central Board of Revenue. AH. 

Manager, Opium Faotory, f 
Neemuch. J 

3. For the existing heads 11 Northern India Salt Revenue Department, Bombay Salt Re- 
_ venue Department, and Madras Salt Revenue and Customs Out-ports Department” and the 

entries thereunder, the foUowing head and entries thereunder shall be substituted, namely: — 


Principal Appraisers , 

Chief Inspectors Preventive 
Servioe. 

Auditor .... 
Chief Aooounts Officer 


Superintendent of Launohes, 
Caloutta Customs House. 
Assistant Superintendent 
of Launches, Caloutta 
Customs House. 


“ Central Excise ( including Land Customs) Department. 

Asstt. OoHoctors of Central ”] Central Board of Central Board of Revenue. All 
Excise (Class n). > Revenue. 

Chief Aooounts Officers . J 



704 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1962 [Paiit II— Sec. 3 


Superintendents of Central Central Board of 
Excise. Revenue. 


Collector of Central Excise 
(Grade I) 
or 

Collector of Central Excise Wi), (ii), (iv) 
(Grade II) j and (v) . 

or 

Deputy Collector in inde- 
pendent charge of a Col- 
leotorate. J 

Central Board of Revenue All. 


4. After the head 11 Central Eiotio (including Land Customs) Department'’, the following 
head and entries thereunder shall be Inserted, namely: — 

Central Seventies Chemical Service, Class II. 

Asstt. Chomicnl Examiner . Central Board of Chief Chemist . . . (i), (ii). (iv) 

Revenue. and (v). 

• Central Board of Revenuo. All.” 

[No. 7/9/Cl— Es ts.] 


New Delhi, the 24th April, 10 62 


S.R.O. 740 I n exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Cons- 

titution, the President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made 
In the rules published with the notification of tho Government of India in the lato Homo De- 
partment No. 9/19/30-Ests., dated the 27th February 1082, namely: — 

In the Scheduled annexed io,ihe said Rule s, under the heading ‘Finance Department’. 

1 . Under the sub-head ’ Customs Department’ for the existing intrirr, the following en- 
tries shall bs substituted:— 


Class III posts. 

(i) Non-MinUterial. 

Examiners . • Colleotor of: Cus. Senior Asstt. Colleo- (i), (ii), (iv) 

tome. " tor i/o of Apprais- and (v). 

in p; Department. 

Collector of Customs. All . 


Preventive Officers ~| Collector 
(Grade I). Customs. 

Preventive Officers 
(Grade II). > 

Asstt. Preventive 
Officers. 

Wharflngere. 

Chemical Assistants . Chief Chemist , 


of Senior Asstt. Colleo- (i), (ii), (iv) 
tor i/o Preventive and (v). 
Department. 

Collector of Customs. All 


Senior Chemical 4fe(’) “nil (v) 
Examiner Inoharge 
of the Laboratory. 

Colleotor of Customs (i), (ii), (iv) 
and (v). 

Chief Chemist . All 


Collector of Cus- 
toms. 

Contral Board of 
Revenue. 
Collector of Cus- 
toms. 


Central Board 
of Revonue. 

Chief Chemist. 


Contral Board 
of Revenue. 
Central Board 
of Reveae. 


(it) Ministerial. 

Superintendent . "I Collector 
Deputy Suporlnten- > Customs, 
dent. J 


of Asstt. Collector (i), (ii), (Iv) 
incharge of Estt. and (V7. 
and Admn. 

Colloctor of Customs All . 


Head Clerk, Upper 
Dn. Clerks and 
Lower Dn. Clerks 
(Cochin Customs 
House). 

Upper*Dn. and Lower 
Divn. Clerks. 


Stenographers 
All other Ministerial 
or non-ministorial 

Class HI poets. 


1 Colleotor of Colleotor of Customs, All . 

I Customs, Oo- Coohin. 
y ohin. 

Collector of Cus- Asstt. Collector of (i), (ii), (iv) 
toms. Customs i/o of the and (v). 

Department con- 
cerned. 

") Colleotor of Colleotor of Customs All . 

}- Customs. 


Colleotor of Cus- 
toms. 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 
Colleotor of Cus- 
toms, Madras. 


Collector of Cus- 
toms. 


Central Board 
of Revenue. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


m 


AU Class TV posts . Asstt. Colleotor Asstt. Collector of (1), (11), (iv) Colleotor of Cue* 
of Customs Customs i/o IJcptt. and (v). toms. 

(Estt. & Admn.) concerned. 

Asstt. Colleotor of All . . Collootor of Ous- 

Customs (Estt. and toms. 

Admn.) 

2. Under the sub-head " Opium Department” for tlio existing entries, the following on trice 
shall be substituted : — 

Class III posts. 

( i ) N on-Ministerial, 


Deputy Superinten- 
dent. 

Ispeotors and Super- 
visors in Himachal 
Pradesh- 

fit) Ministerial. 
Superintendent 
Head Clerks 


| Naroo-ias Com- 
missioner. 


1 


} Narcotics 

Commissioner. 


Upper Division and 
Lowar Division 
Clerk*. 

Steno-typiats . 

All other Mina, and 
Non-Mina. ClaasIII 
posts. 


'I Narcotics Oom- 
I missioner. 


y 


J 


Chemioal Assistants . Chief Chemist , 


Class IV posts. 

(i) Office of the Narco- Chief Aooounts 
ties Commissioner. Officer, 

(it) Uttar Pradesh Dsputy Oolleo- 
(Ghaxipur). tor (Opium). 


(tit) Neemuch, Rajas- 
than and Madhya 
Bharat. 


Asatt. Colleotor 

(Opium). 


Narooties Commis- AU . Central Boar 

sioner. of Revenue. 


Doputy Colleotor 
(Opium) in the oase 
of persons employ- 
ed in the Opium 
Factory, Ghazipur. 
Asatt. Collector 
(Opium) in the oase 
of persons employ- 
ed in Neemuch, 
Rajasthan and Ma- 
dhya Bharat. 
Narcotics Commis- 
sioner. 

Doputy Colleotor 
(Opium) for staff 
employed in Uttar 
Pradesh. 


(i). (ii), iv) Narootios Oom- 
and (v), missioner. 


(1) and (v) Narootios Com- 
missioner. 


All . . Central Board 

of Revenue. 

(i), (ii). (iv) Narcotics Com- 
and (v). missioner. 


Asstt. Colleotor 
(Opium) for staff 
employed in Nee- 
much, Rajasthan 
and Madhya Bha- 
rat. 

Narootios Commis- 
sioner. 

Opium Chemist 

Narootios Commis- 
sioner, 

Chief Chemist 


(i). (ii). (iv) Narootios Oom- 
and (v). missioner. 


All . . Central Board 

of Revenue. 

(1) and (v) Chief Chemist, 
(i), (ii), (lv) Central Board 
and (v). of Revenue. 

All . Do. 


Chief Accounts All . 

Officer. 

District Opium (i) and (v) 

Officers or Opium 
Chemist or Mana- 
ger, Opium Fac- 
tory Ghazipur, in 
rospeot of Ests. 
under their con- 
trol. 

Deputy Colleotor All . 
(Opium). 

Manager Opium (1) and (v) 
Footory, Neomuoh 
or District Opium 
Officers in respect 
of Eats, under tlieir 
control. 

Assistant Colleotor AU . 
(Opium), 


Narootios Com- 
missioner. 
Deputy Collec- 
tor (Opium). 


Narootios Com- 
missioner. 
Assistant Collector 
(Opium). 


Narcotics Com- 
missioner. 




706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Paht II— Sec. 3 


(iv) Hlmaohal Pradesh Chief Accounts Offloer-ln-oharge of (1) and (v) Narcotics Com- 
Offloer. the Circle. misaioner. 

Chief Aooounta Offl- All . Narcotics Com- 

oer. missioner. 

3. For the existing gub heads “ Northern India Salt Revenue Department, Bombay Salt 
Revenua Department and Madras Salt Revenue and Customs Out-porta Department” subse- 
quently amended to “ Central Excise and Land Customs Department” and the on tries there- 
under, the following sub head and entries thereunder shall be substituted i — 

'« Central Excise ( including Land Customs') Department, 


Class III poets. 

(i) Eon-Ministerial. 

Dv. Superintendents Collector of 
of Central Excise. Central Exoiae. 


Inspectors of Central 
Excise, fll , 1 ' 

Supervisors 


J } 


Collector of 
Central Ex- 
oiae. 


Asstt. Collector of (i) and (v) 
Central Exoiae. 

Deputy Collector (i), (ii), (iv) 
of Central Exoise. and (v). 
Oolleotor of Central All . 
Exoise. 

Deputy Oolleotor or (i), (ii), (iv) 
Asatt. Oolleotor of and (v). 
Central Exoise. 

Collector of Central All . 
Exoise. 


Oollootor of Cen - 
tral of Excise. 

Collector of Cen- 
tral Exoiae. 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 

Oolleotor of Cen- 
tral Exoise. 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 


(it) Ministerial.' 

Office Supdt. Superin- Collector of 
tendent. Central Exoi- 

se. 


Deputy Supdt. 
Head Clerk 



Oolleotor 

Central 

also. 


of 

Ex- 


Upper and Lower Di- ") Oolleotor of 
vision Clerks. Central Ex- 

Steno-typlst ■ " oise. 

All other ministerial 
and non-miniaterial 
olass III posts. . 


All Class IV posts . Asstt. Oolleotor 
inohorge of 
Divn. or 
Asatt. Oolleotor 
(Headquarters 
Office) in res- 
pect of Estt. 
under their 
oontrol. 


Deputy Oollootor (i), (ii), (iv) 
or Asstt. Collector and (v). 
(Headquarters). 

Collector of Central All 
Excise. 

Asatt, Oolleotor ) (!) Sc (v) . 
Inoharge of Divn. J 


Collector of Cen- 
tral Exoise. 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 

Collector of Cen- 
tral Exoise. 


Dy. Oolleotor of 
Central Excise or 
Asatt, Collector 
(Headquarters). 
Collector .of Central 
Exoise. 

Dy. Oolleotor of 
Central Exoise or 
Asatt. Oolleotor 
(Headquarters) or 
Asstt. Oolleotor 
inoharge Divn. 
Collector of Central 
Exoise. 

Superintendent of 
Central Exoise. 


(I), (ii),(tv) Collector of Cen-- 
i- <k (v). tral Exoise. 


All . . Central Board 

of Revenue. 

(i), (ii), (iv) Collector of Cea- 
and (v). tral Exoise. 


All . . Central Board 

of Revenue. 

(i) and (v) Assistant Collec- 
tor. 


Asstt, Oolleotor of All 
Central Exoise 
inoharge of Divn. 
or Asstt, Collec- 
tor (Headquarters 
Office). 


Collector of Con- 
tral Exoise. 


4. The existing entries under the sub-head “ Customs Department” relating to Cliemioa- 
and other establishments at the Central Laboratory shall be deleted and the following sub head 
and entries thereunder shall be substituted after the sub head " Central Exoise (including Land 
Customs) Department”! 

Central Bevenue Central Laboratory. 

Chemical Asstts. . Chief Chemist . Chemioal Examiner, (i) and (v) Chief Chemist. 

Grade I. 

Chief Chemist . All . . Central Board 

of Revenue. 



Part II— 3ec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


707 


Superintendent (Minis- 
terial). 

Chief Chemist . 

Chemical Examiner, 
Grade I. 

Chief Chemist 

(i) and (v). 

All 

Chief Chemist. 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 

All Other Class III 
Posts, 

Chief Ohomist 

Chemical Examiner, 
Grade I. 

li). (■'), (iv) 
and (v). 

Chief Chemist, 



Chief Chemist 

All . 

Central Board 
of Revenue. 

All Class IV Posts 

Chemical Exa- 
miner, Grade I. 

Ohemioal Examiner, 
Grade ff . 

Ohemioal Examiner, 

(i), (ii), (iv) 
and (v). 

All . 

Chief Chemist. 

Chief Chemist. 


Grade I. 

[7/9/01-E#ta.] 
C, B. GULATI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23 rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 741. — The following draft -of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Pilgrim Ships Rules, 1933, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred toy clause (g) of sub-section (1) of section 213 of the Indian Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), is published as required by sub-section (3) 
of the said sectign for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, 
;and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
ou or after ihe 15th May 1952. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in respect 
of the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendment* 

In rule 101 of the said Rules — ' 

1. In sub-rule (1), for the word “cotton" the words, brackets and figure “cotton 
[except Egyptian and Sudan cotton subject to the conditions specified in sub-rule 
(3)] shall be substituted. 

2. After sub-ride (2) the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(3) Egyptian and Sudan cotton shall not be carried In a pilgrim ship unless 
the following conditions are satisfied: — 

(a) no other cargo or stores shall be stowed with cotton in the same 
compartment, 

,(b) each compartment in which cotton is stowed shall have its own inde- 
pendent means of fire-extinguishing. 

(c) each compartment in which cotton is stowed shall be efficiently and 

securely closed, and ventilators leading to such compartment shall 
be fitted with a double layer of fine mesh wire gauze, 

(d) the stowage and loading or discharging of cotton shall be under the 

direct supervision of one or more of the ship’s certificated officers, 

(e) during loading and discharging operations, spark arresters shall be 

placed over all funnels, 

(f) smoking and naked lights shall not be permitted on any deck or decks 

through which cotton is loaded or discharged, and 

(g) fire hoses shall be connected to the water supply adjacent to all 

hatchways through which cotton Is being loaded or discharged and 
the water shall be turned on ready for immediate use. 

[No. 158-AWT.] 

AVTAR SINGH, Under Secy. 



708 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 742. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution, the 
President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Manipur shal\ subject 
to the control of the President and until further orders, exercise the 
powers and discharge the functions of the State Government under the provisions 
Df section 5 of the Public Gambling Act, 1807 (III of 1867), as extended to the 
State of Manipur. 

[No. 93-J.] 
A. N. SACHDEV, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 743. — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Rajkum;>r 
Raghubirsmgh, Rajkumar G'ovindsingh, and Rajkumar Raghunathsingh, sons of 
His Highness the Raja of Sitamau, have been nominated by the said Ruler, for the 
(purposes of Entry 2(b) of the Table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms 
Rules, 1951. 

[No. 94-D.j 

S.R.O. 744. — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharaj Kumar 
Ajit Singbji, son of His Highness the Raja of Jhabua, has been nominated by the 
said Ruler for the purposes of Entry 2(b) of the Table annexed to Schedule I 
to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951. 

[No. 93-DJ 

S.R.O. 745. — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharajkumar 
Shri Digvijay Singhji Saheb and Maharajkumar Shrl Lakshman Singhji Saheb, sons 
of His Highness the Raja of Sailana have been nominated by the safd Ruler, for 
the purposes of Entry 2(b) of the Table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms 

Rules, 1951 

[No. 96-D.] 

S.R.O. 74G. — In xercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Songarlji Saheba a member of the family of 
the Ruler of Rajgarh for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 97-D.] 

S.R.O. 747. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify Her Highness Maharaniji Saheba of Sitamau a member of the 
family of the Ruler of Sitamau for the purposes of that entry. 

[No, 98-D.j 

S.R.O. 748. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia, a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Gwalior for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 99-D,] 

S.R.O. 749. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
’annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify Major Shrimant Maharaj Jagdeo Rao Saheb Puar of Junior 
Maltnan a member of the family of the Ruler of Dhar for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 100-D.] 

S.R.O. 750. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is 'pleased to specify Her Highness Rani Saheba Saraswati Sahlba a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Khiichipur for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 101-D.] 

S.R.O. 751.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 



Paft II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


70 ? 


is leased to specify Her Highness Maharani Saheba Chauhanji a member of the 
family of the Ruler of Jhabua for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 102-D.] 

S.R.O. 752. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify (1) Her Highness the Dowager Maharani Shiva Kumari, 
D.B.E., and (2) Maharaj Prabhunath Singhji, members of the family of the Ruler 
of Narsingarh for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 103-D.] 

S.R.O. 753. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule 1 to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify (1) Her Highness Maharani Padmaraje Puar and (2) Her 
Highness Maharani Menkaraje Puar, members of the family of the Ruler of Dewas 
(Junior) for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 104-D.] 

S.R.O. 754. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify (1) Maharajkumari Usha Raje Holkar, (2) Her Highness Fay 
Holkar, (3) His Highness Maharaja Tukoji Rao Holkar, (4) Her Highness Masaheba 
Saubhagyawati Chandravati Bal Holkar, (5) Her Highness Masaheba Saubhagyawati 
Sharmishta Bai Holkar, and (6) Her Highness Masaheba Saubhagyawati Indirabal 
Holkar members of the family of the Ruler of Indore for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 105-D,] 

S.R.O, 755. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
(annexed to Schedule 1 to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify (1) Her Highness the Junior Dowager Maharani Saheba of 
Ratlam and (2) Her Highness the Maharani Saheba of Ratlam, members of the 
family of the Ruler of Ratlam for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 106 D.j 

S.R.O. 756. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
Annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951. the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Her Highness Maharaniji Shri Chandrawatji Saheba, a member 
of the family of the Ruler of Sailana for the purposes of that entry, 


[No. 107-D.] 

S.R.O. 757, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
•annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Yuvraj Jaycndra Singh, a member of the family of the Ruler 
of Kathiwara for the purposes of that entry.. 


[No. 108-D.] 

S.R.O. 758. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred by Enlry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Ranee Saheba Mukand Kuwar, a member of the family of the 
Ruler of Johat for the purposes of that entry. 


[No. 109-D,] 

S.R.O. 759. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify (1) The Senior Begum Saheba of Kurwai, and (2) Nawabzada 
Shaharynr Mohammed Khan, members of the family of the Ruler of Kurwai for 
the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 110-D.] 

S.R.O, 760. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951. the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify Shrimati Keshav Kumari (Rajmata), a member of the family 
of the Ruler of Piploda for the purposes of that entry. 


[No. 111-D.] 



710 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Fart II— Sec. 3 


S.R.O. i61. — .In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schodule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify (1) Sarkar Alta Aziza Sultan Begum, and (2) Nawabzada Wala 
Jan Asif Mohammad Khan Bahadur, members of the family of the Ruler of 
Pathbri for the purposes of that entry. 

LNo. 112-D.] 

S.R.O. 762. — In exercise of tho powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify (1) Rani Saheba Indumati Devi, and (2) Kunwar Bhanu Pratap 
Singh, members of the family of the Ruler of Khaniadhana, for the purposes of 
that entry. 

[No. 113-D.] 

S.R.O. 763.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
Is pleased to specify (1) Rajmata Saheba Jamna Kunwar Bai, (2) Rani Saheba 
Chandra Kunwar Ba. and (3) Kunwar Surendra Singhji, members of the family 
of the Ruler of NImkhera for the purposes of that entry. 

[No, 114-D.] 

S.R.O. 764, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shreemati Rajmata Bhanwar Bal Ma Saheba, a member of 
the family of the Ruler of Jamnla, for the purposes of that entry. 

[No. 115-D.] 

S.R.O. 765, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Kunwar Fatehbhan Singhji, a member ol the family of the 
Ruler of Ra.fgarh (Bhumia Estate) for the purposes of that entry. 


[No. 110-D.} 
H. C. MAHINDROO, Under Secy, 


■■ 7 — - ~ 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April, 1852 
Foreign Exchange Regulation Rules 

S.R.O, 766, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following Rules, namely; — 

1, Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Rules, 1952. 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires; 

(a) "Schedule" means a schedule to these Rules; and 

(b) "the Act” means the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 

1947). 

3, Form of declarations. — (1) A declaration under section 12 of the Act shall be 
In one of the forms set out in the First Schedule as the Reserve Bank may by 
notification in the Gazette of India specify as appropriate to the requirements of 
a case. 

(2) Declarations shall be executed in sets of such number as Indicated on the 
forms. 

4. Authority to whom declaration to be furnished. — (1) The original Of the 
declaration shall be furnished to the Collector of Customs; provided that when 
export Is by post, the original of the declaration shall be furnished to the postal 
authorities. 

(2) Copies of the declaration shall be submitted to the authorities and in the 
manner, specified on the forms. 



.t'AKT II OEC. 3J 


Tliili (jrA£J*iTTJ!i U X IINJJIA, 1VL/IX 3, 


# x * 


(3) The documents pertaining to every export passed by the Customs shall,, 
within 21 days from the date of the export, be submitted to the authorised dealer 
mentioned on the relevant declaration form, unless the Reserve Bank, In Its dis- 
cretion, authorises otherwise. 

5. Evidence in support of declaration. — (1) The Reserve Bank, or subject to 
such directions, if any, as may be given by the Reserve Bank, the Collector of 
Customs or the postal authorities, may, to satisfy themselves of due compliance- 
with section 12 of the Act, require such evidence in support of the declaration as 
may satisfy them that the exporter is a person resident In India, or has a place* 
of business in India. 

(2) The Reserve Bank may require any exporter to produce such evidence in 
support of the declaration as may be in his possession or power to satisfy it 

(1) that the destination stated on the declaration is the final place of 
destination of the goods' exported; and 
(ii) that the amount representing the full export value of the goods has- 
been or will be paid to the exporter. 

Explanation. — -For the purposes of this rule, “final place of destination” means 
a place in a counti-y in which the goods are ultimately imported and cleared/ 
through tha Customs of that country. 

6. Period within which export value of aoods is to be paid. — The amount repre- 
senting the full export value of goods exported shall be received from the country 
of Anal destination of the goods, unless permitted otherwise by the Reserve Bank 
in its discretion, and shall be paid to the exporter within six months from the- 
date of shipment of the goods : 

Provided that in the case of goods exported to Pakistan or Afghanistan, the- 
amount representing the export value shall be received within three months from, 
the date of export: 

Provided further that the Reserve Bank, in its discretion, may, for sufficient and- 
reasonable cause shown, extend the said period of six months or three months, as 
the case may be. 

7. Manner of Payment of export value of goods . — The amount representing the 
full value of goods exported to the countries specified in the Second Schedule shall 
be paid through an authorised dealer and unless otherwise authorised by the- 
Reserve Bank, shall be paid in the manner specified in the said Schedule. 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

Form G. R. I. Original oopy to be submitted to Customs ■ 

• FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 

{All exports from, parts in India must be declared on O. R. forms only) 


Exchange Control 

Serial No Steamer . 

Shipping Bill No Port of 

Rupee Value Shipment 


This form doos not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan. For export to 
these countries form E. P. must be used. 

(Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodities to countries outside- 
India other than Nepal, Tibet, Bhutan and French and Portuguese territories in India.) 

1. Exporter's Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating Currency) 

(Shipping charges, insurance oto., if not included in price) _ 


Total 



712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 


5. Method by which payment is to be roeeivod in India. 


Strike out 
■clauses not 
■applicable. 


(a) Goods invoiced in permitted foreign currency and payment 
reooivod through n bank in India by 

(t) negotiating or aending for oolleotion bills and/or documents 
drawn in. 


(state currenoy) 

(ti) remittance in 

(state foreign ourrency) 

(b) Goods invoiced in rupees and payment received through a 
bank in India by 

(*) negotiating or sending for oolleotion bills and/or documents 

drawn in rupeos . . . . . . * . , , — . , — — 

(ii) remittance in rupeos . . . . . . . . . , — 

(c) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment received through a 

bank in India by negotiation of a sterling hill on London drawn 
under a oredit either registered with the Bank of England on 

Form E. 2 under No. 

(mention Bank of England No. ) 
or without suoh a registration providing for reimbursement 
by a sale of foreign currency or by transfer from the permitted 
sterling account In the United Kingdom. 

(d) Goods invoiood in sterling and payment reoeived through a 

bank in India by 

negotiating bills 

(») — — — —drawn in sterling 

sending for oolleotion shipping documents 
on the country of destination of goods, payment to bo 
received in sterling from the permitted sterling account in 
the United Kingdom. . . . . . . . . . . — — — 

(it) remittance in sterling the sterling being reoeived from the 

i permitted sterling aoconnt in the United Kingdom — — ... 

(«) Goods invoiood in sterling and payment reoeived through a bank 
in India by 

negotiating bills 

drawn in 

sending for oolleotion shipping doouments 

sterling on — 

(mention name of sterling area oountry oonoerned) 
a sterling area oountry other than the U. K. providing for reim- 
bursement by transfer from the permitted sterling aooount 
in the United Kingdom. . . . . . . . . , . - ■ ■ ■ — — 

I hereby deolare that I am the seller/oonsignor of the goods in raspeot of which 
this declaration iB made and that tho partloulars givon above are true and 
’Strike out (a) that tho invoice value doclared is the full export value of the goods and 
i "* olauso is the same as that contracted with the buyer; 

\a or b) not 

■applicable (ft) that this is a fair valuation of tho goods which are unsold. 

I/my principals undertake that I/they will doliver to the bank mentioned below 
tho foreign exohangn/rupeo proceeds rosulting from the export of these goods 
on or before* — — • — • — - — 


(Name and address of the bonk in Lidia (Signature of exporter) 

through whom payment is to be received.) 

Address — 


.Date 


Note. All doouments relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 

medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exohange in India, 

See page 2 of form for methods of finance permitted. 

♦Give approximate date of delivery whioh must be within six months of export. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


71S 


Notes to exporters 

The G. R . {ie]r! procedure applies to ex port h to till cn nil 1 1'init excluding Pakistan. 
Afghanistan, Nopal, Tibet, Bhutan and French and Port ugueso territories in India, Th 
methods by which payments for exports to different countries may bo received are state 
below 


Names of Countries 


Approved methods of finance. 


A. The Belgian Monetary Area; Canada, 
Egypt (including Gaza Strip) ; Tho 
French Franc Al'au (excluding the French 
possessions in India) ; The French 
Somali Coast ; The Portuguese Monetary 
Area (excluding Portuguese possessions 
in India) ; Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; 
The Dutch Monetary Area (excluding tho 
Republic of Indonesia and Dutch Now 
Guinea) ; Denmark (including Faroe 
Islands) and Greenland ; Norway and 
Sweden. 

B. U.S.A. and any territories under the 

Sovereignty of the U.S.A. ; Philippine 
Islands ; Bolivia ; Colombia ; Costa 
Rica ; Cuba ; Dominiean Republic ; 
Equador ; Guatemala ; Haiti ; 

Honduras ; Moxino ; Nicaragua ; Pana- 
ma ; Salvador ife Vonozuola. 

0. Tho Scheduled Territories, i.e.. The British 
Commonwealth (except Canada) ; the 
Irish Republic ; British Trust Territories; 
British Protectorates and Protected 
States ; Burma ; Iraq ; Iceland ; tho 
Hashemite Kingdom of tho Jordan ; 
Libya. 

D. All countries not mentioned in groups 
A, B and C above, 


(a) The currency of the oountry of import 
or of any other country in the surne- 
monetarv area, 

(b) Sterling from the account of a resident 
in the country of import or of any other 

country in the same monetary area. 

(c) Rupees from the account of a bunk in the ■ 

country of import or of any other 
country in tho same monetary urea. 


(a) U.8. dollars. 

(h) Sterling from the account of a residont 
in any country in the group. 

(c) Rupees form tho account of a bunk in any 
country in tho group. 

(a) Sterling or any sterling urea currency 
other than Indian and Pakistan rupees 
from the account of a resident in any , 
country in this group other than India, 
and Pakistan. 

(6) Rupees from the account of a bank in any 
country in this group other than India, 
and Pakistan. 

(a) Sterling from tho account of a resident 
in tho oountry of import. 

(h) Rupees from the account of a bunk in. 
the oountry of import. 


Note. — (1) In all oases page 1 must be completed and submitted to the Customs in order to ob- 
tain neaossary permission to ship the goods, In case of sterling Bills on London 
under credit, i.e., under Section 5(c), and also under 5 (e), pagos 3, 3 and 7 must also be 
completed in the same way as page 1 and handed uver to tho authorised dealer in 
foreign exchange through whom the bill is negotiated. 

(1!) In all oihor cases, i.e., whoro tho mothod of obtaining payment, for the goods is one 
of thoso laid down in Section 5(a), (6) or (d), pages 3 and 5 must be oompieted in 
the same way as page 1 and handed over to the authorised dealer ill foreign 
oxchango through whom payment for the shipment, is being received. 


Form G. R. 1. Duplicate copy together with a copy 

of shipper’s iovoioe to be submitted 
to Reserve Bank through as autho- 
rised dealer in foreign exchange. 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
(All exports front ports in India must be declared on 0. It. forms o nly.) 

Exchange Control 


Serial No Steamer . 

Shipping Bill No Port of . 

Rupee Value Shipment 


This form does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan. For export to these 
countries form E.P. must be used. 

(Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodities to countries outside 
India other than Nepal, Tibet Bhutan and French and Portuguese territories in India.) 

1. Exporter’s Nome 

2. Country of destination of goods 



^14 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 8, 1982 [Part II — Sec. 3 


3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating ourrenoy) .... 

(Shipping oharges, insurance eto., if not included m^jriae) 


■B. Method by which payment is to be received in India. 

(a) Goods invoiced in permitted foreign ourrenoy and payment re- 
ceived through a bank in India by 

Strike out (i) negotiating or sending for oolleotion bills and/or doouments 

'clauses not drawn in 

applicable — — — — — — — 

(state ourrenoy) 

(ti) remittanoe in ■ . — 

(state foreign ourrenoy) 


(6) Goods invoioed in rupees and payment received through a bank 
in India by 

( i ) negotiating or sending for oolleotion bills and/or documents 
drawn in rupees . . . . . . . . . . . . — 

(tt) remittanoe in rupees . . . . . . . . . , . . — 

(o) Goods invoioed in sterling and payment reoeived through a bank 
in India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London drawn under 
a credit either registered with the Bank of England on Form 

E. 2 under No 

(Mention Bank of England No.) 
or without such a registration providing for reimbursement 
by a sale of foreign ourrenoy or bjr transfer from the permitted 
sterling account in the United Kingdom. . , . . , „ - 

(d) Goods invoiced in sterling, and payment reoeived through a bank 
in India by 

negotiating bills 

(i) . — - — ■ —drawn in 

sending for oolleotion sterling shipping doouments 
on the oountry of destination of goods, payment to be reoeived 
in sterling from the permitted sterling aooount in the United 
Kingdom . . . . .... .... . . — 


(it) remittanoe In sterling, the sterling being received from 

the permitted sterling aooount in the United Kingdom — 
(a) Goods invoioed in sterling and payment received through a 
bank in India by 

negotiating bills 

drawn in 

sending for oolleotion shipping documents 

sterling on 

(Mention name of sterling area oountry concerned.) 
a sterling area country other than the U. K. providing for reim- 
bursement by transfer from the permitted sterling aooount 
in the United Kingdom. . . . . — 


Btriko out 
clause 
(a or b) 
not appli- 
cable 


I hereby declare that I am the seller/oonsignor of the goods in respect of which this 
declaration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 

(а) that the iuvoioe value deolared is the full export value of the goods and Is the 

s«me as that contracted with the buyer. 

(б) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold. 

I/my principals undertake that I/th«y will deliver to the bank mentioned below the 
foreign exohange/rupoe proceeds resulting from the export of these goods on 
or before* — — — — ■ 


(Name and address of the bank in India (Signature of exporter) 

through whom payment is to be reoeived.) 

Address — — - — — — — — 

Date 

Note . — All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the me- 
dium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India. 

See page 2 of form for methods of finance permitted. 

•Give approximate date of delivery which must be within six months of export. 



Past II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 8, 1952 718 


Strike out Certificate by authorised dealer in India through whom bills art negotiated or collected 

clause not or through whom payment for goods is received. 

applicable 

We hereby oertify that wo have negotiated bills/reoelved billa/shipping documents for col- 
lection to the value of as declared under section 5 (a)/(b)/(c)j(d)j 

(•) and we undertake to see that proceeds are received by us on or before* 

In a manner approved by the Exohange Control or that an explanation is furnished to the 
Reserve Bank of India as to the reason for non-delivery. 

or 

We hereby certify that we have received in payment of the 

goods os deolared under Section 5(a)/(6)/(d)/(«). 


(Signature of authorised dealer) 
•within six months. Date 


Notes to Banks 

1 . Pages 3 and 4 should be submitted to the Beaerve Bank of India together with a oopy of ship, 
per ’a invoioe immediately after the authorised dealer completes the certificate above. 

4 . On receipt of the prooeods of bills or consignment shipments under seotion 6(a), (e) or (d) the 
authorised dealer will forward to the Baserve Bank of India the triplicate oopy of this form 
with the appropriate certificate on the reverse of the oopy duly completed. In respect of 
consignment shipments the account sales or other satisfactory documentary evidenoe in 
support of the prooeeds aotually realised should be forwarded along with the triplicate 
oopy of the form. In the event of the prooeeds not being rooei ved by the date stated an 
explanation must be furnished to the Reserve Bank of India quoting the number and 
date of this form. 

3. In the oase of bills drawn and negotiated for only part of the invoioe amount the triplicate 

oopy of the form should be retained by the authorised dealer until the full prooeeds of the 
shipment have been received by him, oxoept in oases where payment of the balance is being 
received by a different method, when separate G.B.I. forms for the balance stating the 
method by whioh paymont is being made should be completed by the shipper. 

4 . In the oase of bills drawn in sterling on London under credit (i.e., See 6(c) pages 6/7 must be 

forwarded to London attaohod to the relative bills. In the oase of sterling bills on London 
covering shipment to United Kingdom or countries within the scheduled territories (i.e., 
the sterling area) pages 6/7 need not be sent to London but on receipt of advice of pay- 
ment of bills from London, the authorised dealer should forward to the Beeerve Bank of 
India the triplicate copy with the certificate under section 6(a) duly completed. 

6. In the case of shipments financed under method 6(e) pages 6/7 must be forwarded to the 
I sterling area oorrespondent attached to the relative bills. 


Spaoe for use by the Beserve Bank of India 


Month and year! 
9-12 

Amount 

30-42 

A.D. 

49-50 

Country 

62-64 

Ourrenoy 
56 60 

Method of 
Finanoe 

68 

Term of 
Contract 

00 

** 

1 

Commodity 

61-03 







1 



Coded Che cked _ Punched Verified 




716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Form 0. E. 1 Triplicate oopy to be forwarded either 

to London with 1st of Exchange or to- 
the Reserve Bank as the oase may be 
through an authorised dealer in 
foreign exchange 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
(All exports from ports in India must be declared on O. E, forme only). 

Exchahqb Contkol 


Serial No Steamer 

Shipping Bill No Port of Shipment 

Rupee Value 

This form does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan, 
countries from E. P- must be used. 


For export to 


thesa-l 


(Declaration required from exporter brforo shipping ccmmcdit it r tc ccuntrift culsi ('< Ji (Jj » 
other than Nepal, Tibet Bhutan and French and Portuguese territories in India). 

1. Exporter’s Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating currency) — — — — — 

(Shipping charges, insurance etc., if not including in prioe 

Totai, 


8. Method by which payment is to be received in India. 


Strike out 
clauses not 
applicable 


(a) Goods invoioed in permitted foreign ourrency and payment recei- 
ved through a bank in India by 

(i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or documents 
drawn in (state ourrency) 

(it) remittance in — — 


(state foreign currenoy) 

(6) Goods invoioed in rupees and payment received through a bank 
in India by 

(t) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or documents 
drawn in rupeos 
(it) remittance in rupees 

(o) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment received through a bank in 
India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London drawn under a 
oredit either registered with the Bank of England on Form E. 2 

under No. (Mention Bank of England No.) 

or without such a registration providing for reimbursement by a 
sale of foreign currency or by transfer from tbe permitted sterling 
account in the United Kingdom . . ■ • ■ • " 


(d) Goods Invoioed in sterling and payment received through a hank 
in India by 

,. v negotiating bjUa ^ in sterling 

(*) sending for collection shipping documents , , 

on the oountry of destination of goods, payment 0 r ?^ 01 , , 

in sterling from the permitted sterling account in e n 


Kingdom . . . . . . ‘ . j f the 

(«t) remittance in storing the sterling being received mm 

permitted sterling account in tho United Kingdom ^ bank 
(c) Goods invoioed in sterling and payment received thro s 
in India by 

Negotiating Bills drawn in 


sending for collection shipping documents 
sterling on (Mention name of sterling area oontry concerned) 
a sterling area oountry other than the U. K. providing for re- 
imbursement by transfer from the permitted sterling account 
in the United Kingdom 


I hereby declare that I am the seller/oonsifinor of the goods in respect of which this 
declaration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 


nuii' ffinkc.: *1 the gazette or india,hiay 3, 


1952 


717 


(а) that the invoice value declared is tlie full export value of the geode and it 
the eeme an that contracted with tho buyer. 

(б) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which arc unsold. 

1/my principals undertake that I/thcy will deliver 10 the hank mentioned below 1 1.0 

foreign oxchange/rup.eos proceeds insulting from the export of these goods on' or 
before* — — - — — . 

(Name and address of tho hank in India through (Signature of exporter) 

whom payment is to be reoeivpd.) 

Date Address — . — 


Strike out 
clause (a 
or b) not 
applicable 


Note — All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India. 


See page 2 of form for methods of finance permitted. 

•Give approximate dato of delivery which must be within six months of export. 

Striko out Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proceeds of shipments'Jiy 

this portion method (c) of section S. 

When form Amount and description of currency — — — — 

Is retained Sold to the Bank of England on 

tn India. or 

Sold to 

(Name of authorised dealer) 

on- — . — —for surrender to the Bank of England. 

We confirm that, the amount of foreign currency specified above was received 
by us surd disposed of as stated. 


or 

We confirm that payment has been received by a cheque or draft for £ — 

drawn on/or by a transfer from a -■ — 

(Insert name of Sterling A/o in the United 
Kingdom) 

Address 


(On behalf of the Bank) 


Certificate by bank in a sterling area country other than the United Kingdom 
receiving the proceeds of shipments by method (e) of section, 6. 

We confirm that £ — was received by ns 

On. — > — — - ■ — — from ■ - ■ - — — ... - - — — - — — 

(Insert name of account from which 
payment was received) 

Address — - - — 

( On behalf of the Bank) 


Strike out Certificate by authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India receiving full proceeds 

this portion of shipments by method (a), (i) and (d) of Section 6. 
when form is t Section 6 (a) 

forwarded to We confirm that was received by us 

London. (state foreign ourrenoy) 

on 

Date 


(*) by credit ( s) to our account with our agent In — 

(*') by a draft or T. T. 

Section 6 (b) 

We confirm that Rs. ■ ■ ■ — —were received by us 

on, by a 

(♦) transfer from tho rupee account in India of a bank in — — . — 

(State name of Co- 
untry). 

(») a remittance from London, the sterling with which the rupees were pur- 
chased being provided from a — 

(state name of Sterling Account in the 
United Kingdom) 

or by a sale of —to the London Control 

(State foreign currency) 

(iii) sale to a bank in India of 


(State foreign currency)^ 







716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3. 1952 [Purr II— S»C- » 


*■ - 


Section 5 (d.) 

We confirm that £- 


-•from a 


-was reoeived by us 


(Name of the sterling A/o in the United 
Kingdom) 

(i) by credit to our aooount with our AgentB in London. 

(tt) by a sterling draft or T. T. 


Date- 


(Signature of authorised dealer) 


t Authorised dealers should oo nolato ujrcifiaate under aeotion 8 {*) in case of sterling bills on 
London oovering, shipments to U. K. or countries within the sterling area. 

•Authorised dealers nut request thsir London Agents when a 1 rising them that sterling 
payments have been’ m i.ia to their oreiit to state source from which they have been received 
to enable dealers to complete this declaration. 


Form OBI Quadruplicate copy to be tor* 

warded to London with 2nd of 
Exohange. 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
(All export » from ports in Jndia must be declared on Q. 11. forms only.) 

Exchange Control 


Serial No. — Steamer 

Shipping Bill No. • Port of 

Rupee Value Shipment 

This form does not apply for export to Pakistan and Afghanistan. For export to tbeas 
OOuntriea form E. P. must be used. 

(Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodities to countries outskis 
India other than Nepal, Tibet, Bhutan and Frenoh and Portuguese territories in India.) 

1. Exporter’s Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

8. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goorlH (stating currency) , . . . 

^(Shipping charges, insurance oto., if not included in price) 

Total 


S. Method by which payment is to be received in India. 

(a) Goods invoiood in permitted foreign ourrenoy and payment received 
through a batik in India by 

Strike out (i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or dooumenta drawn in. 

’j^olauaes not — 

applicable (state ourrenoy) 

(ii) remittance in 

(state foreign ourrenoy) 

(6) Goods invoiced in rupees and payment reoeived through 
a bank in India by 

(i) negotiating or sending for collection bills and/or docu- 
ments drawn in rupees . . . . . . . 

(is) remittance in rupees . , . . 

(o) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment received through 
a bank in India by negotiation of a sterling bill on London 
drawn under a credit either registered with the Bank of 

England on Form E. 2 under No. 

(Mention Bank of England No.) 
or without such a registration providing for reimbursement 
by a sale of foreign ourrenoy or by transfer from the per- 
mitted sterling account in the United Kingdom. . .. - — 


(d) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment reoeived through 
a bank in India by 

negotiating bill* 

(») — drawn in sterling 

sending for collection shipping document* 

on the country of destination of goods, payment to be 


719 


Cart j— Stc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1982 


received in sterling from the permitted sterling aooount 
in the United Kingdom . . , . __ 

(tl) remittance in sterling the sterling being received from 
the permitted sterling account In the United Kingdom - 

(«) Goods invoiced in sterling and payment reoeived through 
ajbank in India by 

negotiating bills drawn in 

sending for oolleotion shipping documents 

sterling on 

(Mention name of sterling area oountry oonoern- 

ed) a sterling area oountry other than the U. K, providing 
for reimbursement by transfer from the permitted sterl- 
ing account in the United Kingdom — . 


I hereby deolare that I am the aeUer/oonsignor of the goods in reapeot of 
5Jj§ which this declaration Is made and that the particulars given above are true and 

pr Strike out t (a) that the invoice value deolared is the full export value of the goods and 
•clause (a or b) ^ is the same as that contracted with the buyer, 
mot applicable 1 

(6) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which are unsold. 

I/my principals undertake that I/they will deliver to the bank mentioned 
below the foreign exohauge/rupee ^proceeds resulting from the export of thw» 
goods on or before* ■ - . — — - ■ — — - . 

"(Name and address of the bank in India (Signature of exporter) 

•through whom payment is to be reoeived.) 

Address— — 

Date — — 


Nofe.— All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 
medium of a authorised dealer in foreign oxohange in India. 

See page 2 of form for methods of Saanoe permitted. 

•Give approximate date of delivery which must be within six months of export. 


®trike out this 
Portion when 
form is retained 
'u India 


Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proceeds of shipments by 
method (o) of section f>. 

Amount and description of currency- — 

Sold to the Bank of England on 

or 


Sold to 

~ 7 


T~j j (Name of authorised dealer) 

— — for surrender to the Bank of England. 


We oonflrtn that the amount of foreign ourrenoy specified above was re- 
ceived by us and disposed of as stated- 

We oonflrm that payment has been received by a cheque or draft for £ ■ 

drawn on/or by a transfer from a— — — • — - — 

(Insert name of Sterling A/o in the United Kingdom) 


Address ' 

W4 J J i ^ 1 j (On behalf of the Bank) 


Certificate by bank in a sterling area oountry other than the United Kingdom 
receiving the prooeeds of shipments by method («) of section 5 . 

We confirm that £ — 1 * — was reoeived by ns 

on -from -w—— 

(Insect name of account ^rom wnioh payment was reoeived) 


Address- 


(On behalf of tbs Bonk) 



JWO 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1932 [PAK? H— i SfcC. 3 


Form 0. K. 2 Original copy to be anbrnlttefl to 

Customs. 


POE SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 
Exchange Conteoi, 


Serial No,' 


St earner- 


See note* 
on page 2 


Shipping Bill No. 

Port of 

Rupee Value Shipment 

(Declaration required from exporter -who is shipping commodities from « 
port in the Indian Union to the countries specified on reverse under undertetinj 
to the Bank of England to deliver foreign currency or obtain payment from an 
approved Sterling Acoount in London) 


1. Exporter’s Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

8. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (Stating currency) (Shipping 
charges, insurance eto., if not included in price) 


Total 


B. Approximate date on which foreign exchange 
will be delivered, or payment will be obtained 

Strike out 6. Method of paymenti Under ‘guarantee by 

u) or (11) 


to the Bank of England 
to 

(i) deliver the relative - 
foreign currency 
Or 

(it) obtain payment 
from 

a- — — * 

(Insert Name of 
sterling a/o in 
London) 


We hereby declare that we are the sellers of the goods in respect of which this declarat ion 
1* made, that the particulars therein are true and oorrect, that the invoice value is to the be»r( 
of our knowledge based on the full value as contracted with buyers and that our London agent* 
have undertaken to surrender to the Rank of England a certificate from an authorised dealer 
U exchange in London showing that 

(*) the full value of the shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 
in London 


(«»") the full value of the shipment- 
appropriate foreign currency 


or 

has been surrendered to Buch authorised dealer In the 


Data 


(Signature of Seller) 
Address — • — ■ — ■ — - — - - — ■ — 


Not *, — This form does Dot apply to export of commodities to the United Kingdom and to ■ 
countries within the sterling area. 




f*AHT B-HSsc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY J, 1968 


7 » 


Notes to Exporters aoMPLarcra Form G. R. 2. 


Names of Countries 

-A. The Belgian Monetary Area, Canada and 
Newfoundland, Egypt (including Gaza atrip). 
The Freuoh Franc Area (excluding the 
Fronoh possessions in India), The Fronoh 
Somali Coast, The Portuguese Mon itary 
Arja (.'Xoludin,' Porta'ann possessions 
in India), Switzerland and Lieuhtensteiu, 
The Dutch Monetary Area (excluding the 
Republic of Indonesia and Dutch New 
Guinea), Denmark (including Faroe Islands) 
and Greenland, Norway and Sweden. 

“B. U.S.A. and any territories under the sove- 
reignty of the U.S.A., Pliilippine Islands, 
Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Domi- 
nican Republic, Ecuador, Gautemala, 
Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nioargua, Panama, 
Salvador and Venezuela. 


Approved method of flnanot 

Guarantee to deliver the ourrenoy of the 
country of import or of any other oountry 
in the same monetary area 
or 

to obtain payment in sterling from tho 
aoaount of a resident in the country of 
import or any other oountry in the same 
monetary area. 


Guarantee to deliver TT.S. dollar* 
or 

to obtain payment in sterling from tha 
aooount of a resident in any country in the 
group. 


0. All countries not mentioned in groups A and Guarantee to obtain payment in sterling from 
B above other than Scheduled Territories. tho aooount of a resident in the oountry of 

import. 


Note . — ■(!) In all cases page l must be completed and submitted to tho Customs in order to 
obtain necessary permission to ship tho jp*ods. 

(2) Where sterling bill) are drawn on London against the shipments pages 8, 5 and 7 
must also he completed in the same way as page 1 and handed over to the authorised 
dealer in foreign exchange through whom tho bills are negotiated. 

(3) In oases where no bills are drawn but the usual praotioe of the exporter is to send 
shipping documents direct to his London Overseas Agents, the following procedure 
should bo adopted: 

Page 3 must bo completed and submitted to the Reserve Bank of India together 
with a copy of the rnvoioe along with the monthly statement of their aoootm* 
with their Lon lou Olfloo. Pages 3 and 7 must be similarly completed and the 
respective copies forwarded to tho London Agents of the exporter by separate 
mails in order that tho London Agents may be In a position to arrange for the 
certi licate on tho rovorso of the form to be completed and duly submitted. 


Form G. R, 2 Duplioate oopy together with a oopy 

o£ shipper’s Invoioe to he submitted! 
to Rsscrvfl Btak cithsr diraot along 
with monthly 31 its usnt or through 
an authorised dsalor in foreign 
exchange. 

For .shipments from india only 

Exoeixge Control 


See notes 
®n page 2 


Serial No. — - — — - — — — • Steamer - - ■ ■ — • — • — > — • — < • > 

Shipping BUI No. — - — - — — ■ — ■ — • — ■ 

Port, of 

Rupee Value— — - - — ■ . . . — ■ — - Shipment — ■ - — - ■ . - 

(Declaration required from exporter who is shipping commodities from a 
port in the Indian Union to the countries specified on reverse under undertaking 
t.o Ihe Bank of England to deliver foreign currency or obtain payment from an 
approved Sterling Account in London) 


1. Exporter’s Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1052 [Past H— Sbc. * 


TO 


4. Involoe value of goods (stating eurrenoy) 
(Shipping oharges, insurance eto., if not 
included in prioe) 


Total 

6. Approximate date on which foreign 
exchange will be delivered, or payment 
will be obtained — - — — 

•Strike out fl. Method of payment! Under * guarantee 

fl) or (II) by 


to the Bank of England to 
(») deliver the relative foreign 
ourrenoy 

or 

(it) obtain payment from 

a— — ■ — — . 

(Insert Name of sterling a/o in 
London) 


We hereby declare that we are the sellers of the goods in respect of which this declaration- 
la made, that the particulars therein are true and correct, that the invoice value is to be best 
Of oar knowledge based on the f ull value as contracted with buyers and that our London agent# 
have undertaken to surrender to the Bank of England a certificate from an authorised dealer' 
In exchange in London showing that 

(*) the full value of the shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 
in London 

or 

(it) the frill value of the shipment has been surrendered to Buoh authorised dealer in the- 
appropriate foreign currency t‘/i 4 


Dnte- 


(Signature of Seiler) 
Address—* — • - — 


Note.—- This form does not apply to export of commodities to the United Kingdom and to 
eauntries within the sterling area. 


^Certificate by authorised dealer in foreign exchange in the Dominion of India through whom 
Nile are negotiated in cases where sterling bills are dravrt on London against the shipments. 

We hereby certify that we negotiated bills to the value of £— — — — • — - — ■ — — 

■gainst the shipment specified on page 3 of this form. 


(Signature of authorised dealer) 
Date ■ - 


• This certificate must not be furnished if bills are not drawn against the shipments. 


form 0. B. £ Triplicate copy to be forwarded to 

London either attached to the firit 
of Exchange if bills are drawn of- 
direct if no bills are drawn. 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


Serial No.- 


Excuangh Contbol 
Steamer- 


Shipping Bill No.- 
Rupee Value- 


Port of 
Shipment — 


See note* 
page 2 


(Declaration required from exporter who is shipping commodities from a. 
part in the Indian Union to the oountries specified on reverse under undertaking 




*mi n— fttc 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


to the Bonk of England to deliver foreign ourrenoy or obtain payment from on 
approved Sterling Aooount in London). 

1. Exporter's Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of good* (stating ourrency) — 

(Shipping charge* insurance etc., if not 

inoluded in price) 

Total 


S. Approximate date on whioh foreign 
exchange will be delivered, or payment 

will be obtained. 

•Strike oat 0. Method of paymenti Under * guarantee by ■ ■ 

0) or (it) 

to the Bank of England to f fi t 
(t) deliver the relative foreign 
currency 

or 

(«'»') obtain payment from f 

e — ■ — 

(Insert Name of Bterling[a/o 
in London) [ g |iq 


We hereby declare that we arc the sellers of the goods in respect of which thiB declaration 
i* made, that the particulars therein are true and correct, that the invoice Value is to the beat 
of our knowledge based on the full value a* contracted with buyers and that our London agent* 
have undertaken to surrender to the Bank of England a certificate from an authorised dealer 
tn exchange in London showing that , 

(i) the full value of the shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 
in London 

or 

(ii) the full value of the shipment has been surrendered to such authorised dealer in 
the appropriate foreign ourrenoy 


Date- 


(Signature of Seller) 


Address- 


IIJ 


Note .- — This form does not apply to export of commodities to the United Kingdom and to 
aountrie* within the sterling area. 

Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom redHving the proceeds of shipment : — 

Amount and description of ourrency ■— 

Bold to the Bank of England on 

or 

Sold to 

(Name of Authorised dealer) 

on for surrender to the Bank of 

Slngland. 

We oonflrm that the amount of currency specified above was received by us and disposed 

of as stated. 

or 

We confirm that payment has been received by a cheque drawn on (or a draft reimbursable 

■from) a 

(Insert name of Sterling Aooount in London) 

(On behalf of the Bank) 


Address- 



724 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [[Part II— S*C. i 


Form 0. E. 2 

Quadruplicate copy to lie forwarded 
to London either attached to the-2nd 
of Exchange if bills are drawn or 
direct if no bills are drawn. 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM INDIA ONLY 


Exchange Control 


Serial No. — 

Shipping Bill No.- 
Rupee Value 


Steamer— 

Port of 
Shipment- 


See note* (Declaration required from exporter who is shipping commodities from a 

on page 728 port in the Indian Union to the countries specified on reverse under underktaking 
to the Bank of England to deliver foreign currency or obtain payment from an 
approved Sterling Account in London) 

1. Exporter’s Name 


2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating ourrency)- 
(Shipping charges, insurance etc., if not 
inducted in price) 


Total 


5. Approximate date on which foreign 
exchange will be delivered, or payment 
•Strike out will be obtained — 

(i) or (ii) 0. M itho I of payment: Under ^guarantee by — 


to the Bank of England to 
(i) deliver the relative foreign 
currency . 

or 

(ii) obtain payment from 


(Insert Name of sterling a/o 
in London) 


We hereby declare that we are the sailers of the goods in respect of whioh this declaration 
is made, that the particulars therein -are true and 3brract, that the invoice value is to the best 
of our knowledge based on the full value as contracted with buyers and that our London agents 
have undertaken to surrender to the Bank of England a certificate from an authorised dealer 
in exchange in London showing that 

(i) the full value of the shipment has been received from an approved Sterling Account 
in London. 


or 


(ii) the full value of the shipment has been surrendered to such authorised dealer in the 
appropriate foreign currency 


Date- 


(Signature of Seller) 
Address 


Note . — This form does not apply to export of commodities to the United Kingdom and to 
countries within the sterling area. 


PART n- -Sec. 3f THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1958 


m 


Certificate by bank in the United Kingdom receiving the proceed* of shipment i — 

Amount and description of currency — > — 

Sold to the Bank of England on 

or 

Sold to 

(Name of Authorised dealer) 

on - ■ - -- - for surrender to the Bank of 

England. 

We confirm that the amount of currency specified above wan reoeived by us and disponed 
of its stated. 

or 

We confirm that payment has been received by a cheque drawn on (or a draft reimbnraabla 

from) a- — — — 

(Insert name of Sterling Aooount in London) 


(On behalf of the Bank) 
Address — 


Form G. E. 3 

Original Copy to be submitted 
to Customi 

INDIA 

Exckanoe Control 

lerlal No. — > — ■ — * — ■ ■ ■ ■ — ■ Steamer — 

Shipping Bill No. — • — • — — — - Port of 

Rupee Value — • — • Shipment — - — • — — 

Declaration required from exporter before stripping commodities outside India 

1. Exporter's Name, 

2. Country of destination of goods. 

3. Short description and quantity of goods. 

4. Invoice 'Value of goods (stating currency) ■ . - — ■ ■ - — . — ■ — - ■ 

(Shipping charges, inaurauoe etc., if not included in price) 


Total 

detlwd by which payment is to be realised i — 

We hereby doclaro that, the invoice value herein stated represents the full export value of 
ho goods and that the amount will be disposed of in a manner and within a period specified by 
he Iteserve Bank. 

Signature of Exporter. 

•G.R.3 Licence No. Date — ■— 

Address — — — — ■ 

)atc — . — . — . — • — . — . — - — — _ 


*NoIe . — This form can only be used undor special licence from the Iteserve Bank. 


form G. K. 3 


INDIA 


i 


Duplicate oopy to be submitted 
to the Reserve Bank 


' Exchange Control 

erial No . — • — - — ■ — . — ■ — . — ■ — - ... — Stearaor — * — *— — - — . — . — • — — , — — 

hipping Bill No.—— — — • — — — . — . — — — — — , — Port of 

iupee Value— — — — • — - — • — ■ — ■ — • — — — • Shipment - — ■ — — - — ■ - 

Declaration required from exporter before shipping commodities outside India 

1. Exporter’s Name 

2. Country of destination of goods. 

3. Short description and quantity of goods. 




*Not *. — This fortn can only be med under special licence from the Reserve Bank. 



PART II— ate. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


72 T 


Item G. R. X. Original copy to bo 

mbmlttod to eustomr 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM PORTS IN INDIA ONLY 
Exchange Oonthol 


Serial No. 


Steamer 


Shipping Bill No. 
Bupee Value 


Port of 
Shipment 


(Deciamtion required from exporter before shipping commodities to such countries as map 6* 

notified from time to time) 

1. Exporter^ Name 

3. Oountry of destination of goods 

3. Short (lesoription end quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating currency) ..... 

(Shipping charges, insurance etc. if not inoluded in price) 


t. Method by which payment is received in India : Total 


(o) Goods in voiced in currency of country of import or U.S. dollars and 

( i) Payment to be received through a bank in India by negotia- 

ting bills and/or documents drawn in the appropriate foreign 
ourrenoy or U.S. dollars under an irrevocable confirmed credit 
opened by the foreign importer ..... 

(ii) Payment already received through a bank in India by a 
remittance of the appropriate foreign currency or U.S. dollars 


(6) Goods invoiced in rupees 

(») Payment to he received through a bank in Indio by negotia- 
ting bills and/or documents drawn under an irrevocable con- 
firmed oredit opened by the foreign importer 

(it) Payment already received through a bank in India by a 
remittance from the foreign importer .... 


(«) Goods invoiced in sterling and 

(<) Payment to be received through a bank in India by negotia- 
ting bills and/or documents drawn under an irrevocable 
confirmed credit opened direct or through London by the 
foreign importer ........ 

(ii) Payment already received through a bank in India by a 
remittance from the foreign importer .... 


I hereby declare that I am the seJlar/consignor of the goods in respect of which 
this declaration is made and that the particulars given above ore true, and 


Strike out 
clause not 
applicable. 

•Give ap- 
proximate 

date of 
delivery 
which must 
be within 
rfx months 
of export. 


(а) that the invoice value declared is the full value 
as contracted with tho buyer. 

(б) that this is a fair valuation of the goods which 

are unsold and I/my principals undertake that 
I/they will deliver to the bank mentioned below 
the foreign exohange/rupee proceeds resulting 
from the export of these goods on or before* 


Name and address of bank in India 
through whom payment is to be received. 
Date — — 


(Signature of Exporter), 
Address 


I/we hereby co nfir m that 

(a) an irrevocable confirmed credit No for 

expiring on has been opened a* stated in SeotionJ 

covering the shipment described abovei 



THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 19B2 [Ruit IT— fixe. > 


-m 


Strike out 
•lause not 
applicable. 


Date- 


(6) a remittance for — ■ — —has boon received on 

and has been allocated against the shipment described above, 

(») in as stated in Section 0 (a) (ii), 

(State currency) 

(ii) in rupees as stated in Section 5 (fi) (ii), the rupee being provided 
from the appropriate non-resident aooount of a bank, 

(iii) in sterling as stated in Seotion 0 (o) (it), the sterling being provided 
from the permitted nouonnt in the United Kingdom. 


(Signature of the authorised 
dealer) 


Note . — All doomn jnts relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 
medium of a i mthorise 1 dealer in foreign exchan :« in In lia. 


NOTES TO extobthus 

(A) In all case# page 1 must bo completed and certified hy an authorised dealer in foreign 
exohange to the effect that payment has already been received or an irrevocable oredit opened 
and thereafter submitted to the oustoms in order to obtain the ueoeseary permission to ship the 
goods. If an export licence for the goods is required, this form should bo exhibited to the Export 
Controller. 

Pago 3 of the form must be completed and handed to the authorised dealer, who signed 
the certificate on page 1. 

(B) In all oases shipping documents must be handed to an authorised dealer in foreign 
exchange with page 3 of Form G.li.X. 


Form Gh R. X. Duplicate copy together with a copy of 

Shipper's invoice to be submitted to Reserve 
Bank through an authorised dealer Id 
foreign exohange, 

FOR SHIPMENTS FROM PORTS IN INDIA ONLY 
Exoua^qej Co.n-tbo:l 


Serial No — - — — - Stoamer 

\ ■ 

Shipping Bill No. — — Port of 

Rupee Valno — Shipment- 


( Declaration required from, exporter before ski pping commodities to such countries us muy b& 

notified from time to time) 

1. Exporter's Name 

2. Country of destination of goods 

3. Short description and quantity of goods 

4 . Invoice valno of goods (stating currency) , . . 

(Shipping charges, insurance ofcc. if not included in price) 

Total 

5. Method by which payment is received in Iruiiax — — 

(n) Chads invoiced in currency of country of import or T7.fi. dollars and 


(£) Payment to he received through a bank in Cn.lia by 
negotiating bills nnd/or documents drawn in tho appro- 
priate foreign currency or U.i j. dollars under an irrovoc- 
able confirmed credit opened by tho foreign importer 
(it) Payment already received throu 'h a bank in India by 
a rumifctnnco of the npjrroprinte foreign currency or IJ.8. 
dollars • 


(b) Goods invoiced in rupees 

(i) Payment to be recohmd through a bank in India by 
negotiating bills and/or documents drawn under an 
irrevocable confirmed credit opened by the foreign 
importer ......... 

(ii) Payment already received through a benk in India by 
a remittance from the foreign importer 






« 3J ! %he gazette of qroiA, may », m 2 

(e) Good s invoiced in sterling and 

(i) Payment to be received through a bank in India by 
negotiating bills and/or documents drawn under tm 
irrevocable confirmed credit opened direct or through 
London by the foreign importer. .... 
(ii) Payment already received through a bank in J. 2 ;dm by 
a remittance from the foreign importer . . 


Strike o lit 
alauao not 
applicable. 

•Give ap. 
proximate 
dale of 
delivery 
which muHt 
bo within 
•lx months 
of export. 


I hereby deolore that I am the seller/coneignor oi the poods in respect of which 
this declaration is made and that the particulars given ftlovo are true, and 

(а) that tho invoice value declared is the full value as contracted with 
the buyer. 

(б) that thisisa fair valuation ofthegoods which are unsold and I/my 
principals undertake that 1/ they will deliver to the bank mentioned 
below the foreign exchanpe/rupee proceeds resulting from the export 
of these goods on or before* 


Name and address of bank in India (Signat ure of exporter). 

through whom payment is to .be received. Address — . — — • 

Bate 


Strike out 
clause not 
applicable. 


I/we 'hereby confirm that — • 

(а) on irrevocable Confirmed credit No.— — - — ■ for 

expiring on — has been opened iu> stated in, 

Seotion fi covering the shipment described abovei 

(б) a remittance for — — has been received on 

and has been allocated against the shipment, described above, 

(») in— — — — —as stated in Seotion 6 (a) (ii)* 

(State currency) 

(if) in rupees as stated in Section 6 (b) (if), the rupee being provided) 
from the appropriate non-regident account of a hank, 

(iff) in sterling as stated in Section 6 (o) (if) the sterling being provided) 
from the' permitted aooount in the United Kingdom. 


Date- 


(Signature r of the 
authorised dealer) 


Not*.— AH documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through the 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India. 


Gtr tiftcate of authorised dealer in India through whom biUe are negotiated or payment it received 1 

(i) We hereby certify that we have negotiated bills as declared under Section 6 under credit 

No. in accordance with the statement made on the digital oi Ihit fcim 

or 

(ii) We hereby certify that we have received shipping elect merits for the goods deecril ed 

within against which we have paid Be. — out of remittance of— 

received in accordance with the statement cn the original of this form. (State currency) 


Dab 


JCL. 


-as 


m 


form K. P. 


INDIA 


(Signature of an authorised 
dealer) 

Original oopy to bo submitted: 
to Customs. 


Exchange Contbol 


Serial No. 

Shipping Bill No. and Date 

Railway Bill No. and Date — — 
Air freight Receipt No. and Date- 

Rupee Value — 


f Steamer/Country Craft 

| Ruilway Booking Station — - 

N ame otI Airway Company 

| Owner of Barge 

Road Transport Company- 

Plaoe of Export- ■ ■ ■ — 
Name of inlan d Customs barrier . 



730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1B52 [Fabt H— SwL $ 


i This form it to be used exclusively for declaring exports from India to Pakistan and Afghanistan 


Strike out 
olaus"» not 
applicable. 


1. Exporter's name — ■ — — ■ — . — . — . — - — . , . . — . . , , . — 

2. Country of destination of Roods — • — — — — — . • . - - ■ . 

(In the case of exports to Pakistan Rtate whether East or West Pakistan) 

3. Short description and quantity of goods— — . — . — — — 

4. Invoice value of goods . Rs.— . — . . — . . , . 

(Shipping oharges/Railway freight, 

insurance eto., if not inoludod in 

price) ...... Ra. — 

Total value ...... Ra. — . — . — . a — «— . 

fl. Method by which payment it to be received in India . — 

*(a) Goods invoiced in Pakistan rupees and pay- 
ment received through a bank in India by: 

(i) negotiating or Bonding for collection bills 
and/or dooumonts drawn in Pakistan 
rupees ...... 


(ii) Romittanoe in Pakistan rupees 

(6) Goods invoiced in Indian rupoea and payment 
reoeived through a bank in India by: 

(t) negotiating or sending for collection billa 
and/or documents drawn in Indian rupees 


(ii) Romittanoe in Indian rupees 


Strike out 
-Clause (a) 
or (b) not 
applicable. 


I horoby doclare that I am the sollcr/consignor of the goods in respect of whieb 
this declaration is made and that, particulars given above are true, and 

(а) that the invoke value declared is the full value os contracted with the 

buyer ; 

(б) that this is a fair valuation of the goods whioh are unsold and 1/ 

my principals undertake that I/they will deliver to the bank 
mentioned below the foroign exohange/rupee prooeeds resulting 
from the export of these goods on or beforef — - — • — * — — 


(Name and address of the bank 

in India through whom payment 

is to be received.) (Signature of exporter) 

Date — — — < — - Address 


2 J 0 le, (i) All documents relating to export of goods from India must bo passed through ths 

modium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India. 

(ii) See page 2 of form for method of finance permitted. 

* This method of finance is not permissible for oxports to Afghanistan, 
f Give approximate date of delivery which must be within three month* of export. 

Notes to Expobtebs 

This E. P. Form applies only to oxports to Pakistan and Afghanistan. The methods by 
whioh payments for the exports may be reoeived are stated below:— 

; For Pakistan:— 

( 1 ) Pakistan rupees ......... Seo, fi (a) 

(2) Indian rupees from the account of a bank in the Dominion 

of Pakistan ......... Seo. 5 (ft) 

For Afghanistan: — 

(1) Indian rupees from the aooount of u bank in Afghanistan . Seo. 5 (6) 


fjoti, (1) Page 1 must bo completed and submitted to the Customs in order to obtain permission 

to export the goods. Pages 3 and fi must also be completed in the same way as page 1 and 
handod over to the authorised dealer in foreign exohange through whom the bill is 
negotiated. 






THIS HA/.ICITK UJJ LNJJ1A, MAX 3, 1OT2 


[ j^abt u—aao. v- 


**TOSi 


Certificate by authorised dealers in India through whom bills are negotiated or collected or through 

whom payment for goods is received 

We hereby certify that the goods by ye been exported against outright Hale/on oonBigmnent 
basis and that rve have negotiated bills/meoivod hills/sbippiug documents for collection to 
the value o f ■ ■ — ■ , — as declared under auction ft (ri) j(b) and we undertake to see 

that proceeds are received by us on or before* — • — — ■ — . — ■ — — - — — in a mnnner 

approved by the Exchange Control or that an exnlanation is furnished to tlio Reserve Bank of 
India as to the reaeon for non-delivery, 

or 

We hereby certify that the goods have been shipped against outright salo/on consignment 

basis and that we have received—' — - — - — • — * — - — • — * — - — • — • — • — ■ — -in payment 

of the goods as declared under section ft ( a)/(h ). 


( Signature of authorised dealer) 

♦Within three months. Date — - — — — — — — 


Notes to Banxs 

1, Pages 3 and 4 should be submitted to the Reserve Bank of India together with a oopy of 
shipper’s Invoice immediately after the authorised dealer completes the certificate above. 

2. On receipt of the proceeds of billR or of the export under section ft (a), or (6), the authorised’ 
dealer will forward to the Reserve Bank of India the triplicate copy of this form with the appro- 
priate certificate on tho reverse of the copy duly completed. In respoct of goods exported on 
consignment basis, the account sales or other satisfactory documentary evidence in support of 
the proceeds actually realised Bhould be forwarded along with the triplicate oopy of the form. 
In the event of the procees not being received by the date stated, an explanation must be 
famished to the Reserve Bank of India quoting the number and date of this form 

8. In the ease of bill drawn and negotiated for only part of the invoice amount the triplioate- 
oopy of the form should be returned by the authorised dealer until tho full proceeds of the ship- 
ment have been received by him, except in eases whore payment of the balanoe is being received’ 
»>y a different mothod, when separate E.P. Forme for the bulance stating the method by which 
payment is being made should be completed by the exporter. 


Worm lO. F, 

Triplicate oopy to be forwarded 
to the Reserve Bank through 
an authorised dealer In foreign 
exchange. 


INDIA 

Exchange Control 


Serial No. By. A. 

Shipping Bill No. and Date 

Railway Bill No. and Date— — - 
Airfreight Receipt No. and Date- 


1 Steamer/Country Craft — 
Railway Booking Station- 
Airway Company — - — - — - 
Owner of Barge———— 
l Road Transport Company- 


Rupee Value 


— Plaoe of Export- 

Name of inland Customs barrier — — 


(This form i* to be used exclusively for declaring exports from India to Pakistan and Afghanistan,) 


1. Exporter’s Name — . — — — — 

2. Country of d (ination of goods 

(In the case of exports to Pakistan state whether East or West Pakistan) 

8 . Short description and quantity of goods — — — _ 


4. Invoice value of goods 

(Shipping eharges/Railway freight, 
insuranoe etc, if not inoluded in price) 
Total value ..... 


Rs. 





Paht II— ‘Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1932 


788f 


/ 


Strike out R, Method by which payment is to be received in India, 

°lauses not "(a) Goods invoiced in Pakistan Rupees and payment received through 

applicable. a bank in India by: 

(£) negotiating or sending for collections bills 
and/or documents drawn in Pakistani 

Rupees ...... • ■ ■ • 1 * 

(ii) Remittance in Pakistani Rupees . . — ■ — » — — — ■ — > ■ 

(6) Goods invoiced in Indian Rupees and payment received through a bank 
in India byt 

(») negotiating or sending for collection bills 

and/or documents drawn in Indian Rupee* • — 

(ii) Remittances in Indian Rupees . . 


I hereby declare that I am the seller/consignor of the goods in respect of 
which this declaration is made and that particulars given above are true, and 

(a) that the invoice value declared is the full value as contracted with the 
buyer. 

Strike out (h) thrt ibis is a fuir valuation of the goods which are unsold and I/my 

Clause (a) or principals undertook that I/they will deliver to the bank mentioned 

(b) not appli’ below the foreign exchanges /rupees proceeds resulting from tho export 

cable. of theso goods on or l'eioret — . — .- - ■ — 


(Name and addross of the bank in 
India through whom payment in 

to be received.) 

(Signature of Exporter) 

Date — — — — — • Address . . — — 


Note. — (i) All documents relating to export of goods from India must be passed through th» 
medium of sn authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India. 

(ii) Nee page 2 of form for method of flnanco permitted. 

* This method of finance is not permissible for exports to Afghanistan, 
t Give approximate date of delivery which must bo within three months of export. 


Certificate by authorised dealer in foreign exchange in India receiving full 
Strike out Proceeds of shipments by method (a) or (6) of Section fi, 

Seotion not Section 5 (o) 

applicable. We confirm that — — - — — — were received by ns 

(State the valuo in Pakistani Rupees), 

on- — — — — • — . — • — - — • 

(Date) 

(i) by eredit(s) to our account with our spent in Pakistan. 

(ii) by a druft or T.T. 

Section 0 (b). 

We confirm that Re. — • — — — • — ■ — — - — -were received by us 

(State tho value in Indian Rupees.) 

on — — - — - — • — • — by a transfer from the rupee account 

India of a bunk in— — — — . — . 

(State the name of tbo country.) 


Date 1 


(Signal ure of authorised dealer). 


Form E. P, 1. 


INDTA 


Original copy to FulmiUcd lo Custom 


Sens! No. — — — • — — — 

Shipping Bill No. and Date- — — 
Railway Bill No. and Date- — - — 
Airfreight Receipt No. and Dut 


ExOfTAilflE CoUTHOL 

f Gtetiner /Country Craft 

— - — | Roiiway Rocking Station — 

— — — — — ' Name or -( Airway Company- — 

— — — I Owner of Psige 

— (Road Transport Company— — ■ 


Rupee value- 


— — Place of export. 

Name of inland Customs barrier — 



ifn the GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY' 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 

' Declaration required from exporter before exporting goods to Pakistan and A fghanistan , 

1, Exporter's niimn * . _ — 

2. Country of desl.mnt.ion of goods — . — — ■ — - — . . — . — 

(Ln tlio ease of <" ports to Pakistan slide whether East or Wolt. Pakistan). 

3. short description mid puimtil.y of goods. 

4, Invoice value of goods (stilting riirrenr v) .... — ■ — . . — . . 

(Whipping charges, insurance etc. if not included in price). 


Total 


Method ft i/ which payment is to he realised : — 


We hereby declare th it the invoice vulun herein stated represent! tin tail export. value of 
the goods and that I ho amount will bo lisposed of in a m i'mir un i within n I > irio i spauitiod by 
Hie Reserve Bunk. 


Date 


(Signature of Evporter) 
♦E.P.T. Eieeuee No. — — - — — Date- • — 

A 1 1 Irens — ■ — ■ — — — 


* Dote . — This form can Only be used under special licence fro n tile Reserve Bunk. 

Form E. P. 1. Duplicate copy to be forwarded to the Rosary} Bank. 

TNDIA 

Exon vtu-tM Conthoi. 


Shipping Bill No. and Date 

Railway Bill No. and Onto 

Airfroiglit. Receipt No. and Date ■ 


f Steamer ( tmnt.ry Draft — 

] Railway BoAing Station • 

Name of V Airwuy Oo noany — — — 

I Owner of Barge 

~] Road Transport Company 


Rupee value Plauo of export 

Name of inland Customs barrier - 


Declaration required from exporter before exporting yooU to Pakistan and Afghanistan 

1. Exporter’s name - — — . — — — 

2. Country of destination of goods — — — 

(In the case oi exports to Pakistan state whether East or West Pakistan). 

11. Short description und quantity of goods. 

4. 1 uvoico value of goods (stating currency) .... — — ■ 

(Shipping ehm-ges, insurance etc. if not included in price.) 

Total 

Method by whirli pa/iwent is to he realised : — 

We hereby declare that the invoice value herein staled represent s the full export value of 
dim goods and that the amount will lie disposed of in a manner and within a period Hpeeiflod by 
the Resoive Rank. 


(Signature of Exporter). 

*E.P.I. Licence No. Date 

Address- — — — — 

Date — — -■ — — — 


* Dote. This form can only be used under special licence from the Reserve Bank. 



art II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 735 

orm E. P. 1 Triplicate oopy te be lorwarded to the Reserve Bank. 

TNDIA 

ExnnANGE CONTROL 


.. i nl No. 

ipuing Hill No. nod Date 

ijlwii# Hill No. und T)ntp 

u/froight "Receipt No. ;iud Dote — 

up. 1 *' vidua — . — - — - 


f Steamer 'Country Craft - 

Railway Rooking Station — 

— - Name of 1 Airway Company 

Ownnr of Rarge — - 

(_ Road Transport Company - 

Place of export 

Name of ialand Customs harrier— 


iclar/ltiun required from exporter before exporting goods to Pakistan and Afghanistan. 

1. Exporter's name • — 

2. Country of doatination of goods ■ — 

(Jn the ease of oyp»rtn to Pakistan stato whether East or West Pakistan). 

3. Short description and quantity of goods. 

4. Invoice value of goods (stating currency)— — — — 

(Shipping charges, insurance otc. if not included in price.) 


Total 


cthod by trhirh payment is to be realised : — 

We hereby deelaro that the invoice value herein etnted represents Ihe full export value of 
i goods and that tlio amount will be disposed of in e inannor and within a period specified 
the Reserve Rank, 

(Signature of Exporter) 

*E,P.T. Licence No. ■ Date — 

Address ^ — - — - — - 

v — • — — — — ~ — . ~ , . 

I/We confirm that— — — — — - — — — — whs received by us on 

(State currency and amount received.) 

(>) by credit to onr account with our agents in- — — — — 

(if) by a banker’s draft or T.T. 

(Ranker’s payment advieo should bo attached) 


(Signature of Exporter).. 


♦Note.— This form can only be used under special licence from the Reserve Bank. 


COPIES OF THE P. P. FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 


s original copy should be forwarded to the. nearest office of the Reserve Ranh of India by the Post 
office, through which the goods have been despatched 


»P. P. 


Original oopy to bs submitted by the 
exporter to ths Post 09:) aitsr 
being countersigned by an authorise! 
dealer in foreign exohanga. 


ill No.- 


Exchanoh Control 

Parool Receipt No- 
Namo of Post Office- 



786 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 


{Declaration required from exporter before tending goods by parcel post to certain countries outsit 

India) 

1. Name and address of exporter 


2, Name and address of consignee- 


3. Short description and quantity of goods- 


4. Invoice value of goods stating ourrenoy — 

I hereby declare that I am the seller/consignor ofthe goods in respect of v 
this declaration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 
t Strike out (I) (a) ( i ) that the invoioe value declared is the full export value of thl 

or (ii) which- goods; 

ever is not (ii) that this is a fair valuaiion of the goods which are unsold; 


applicable. (b) that I undertake to deliver to the hank mentioned below the forejgr 

exohange/rupee proceeds resulting from the export of these goods on o; 

* Give approxi- before* — in a manner prescribed by the Reservi 

mate date of Bank of India. 

delivery which 

must be within 

6 month* of 

•rport. 


(Name and address of bank in India through 
whom payment is to be reoeived). 

Countersignature of Bank 
mentioned above. 


(Signaturo of Exporters). 
Date 


Note ..- — (») Ail documents relating to exports of goods from India roust be passed through th® 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange, 

(it) All details of this form must be-correotly completed, 


COPIES OF THE P. P. FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 

■C * "" 

Form P. P, Duplicate copy to ho submitted to tho 

Reserve Bank through an authorise d 
dealer In foreign exchange. 

Exchange Contbol 

Serial No. Paroel Receipt No. 


Name of Post Offioe ^ . 

(Declaration required from exporter before tending goods by parcel poet to certain countries outside 

India) 

1. Name and address of exporter 


2. N am e and address of oonsignee- 


3. Short- description and quantity of goods 

4. Invoice value of goods stating currency 

I hereby deolaro that 1 am tho eeller/consignor of the goods in respect of which this 

declaration is made and that the particulars given above are true and 

•[Strike out (i) [(a) (i) that (he invoiCo -value declared is tic full export value cf tie goods 

or (ii) whichever 
is not applicable 

(ii) that this is a fair valuation of tho goods which are unsold; 




rl l 


n— s*c. sy 


3, . 



♦Give appro- (6) that I undertake to deliver to the bank mentioned below the foreign exchange/ 

Xlmate date rupee proceeds resulting from the export of these good* on or before* — ■ — 

of delivery in a manner prescribed by the Reserve Bank of Indio, 
which must be 
within 0 months 
of export. 


(Signature of Exporter). 
Date— 


MfName and address of bank In India through 
whom payment is to be received) 


We hereby certify that we have negotiated/reoelved for collection bills and documents for 
in rospeot of the above goods sent by parcel post. 


(Amount) 


(Signature of authorised dealer) 


ffote. — (i) All documents relating to exports of goods from India muBt be passed through the 
medium of an authorised doaler in foreign exohange. 

(it) All details of this form must be correctly completed. 


COPIES OF THE P. P. FORM SHOULD NOT BE PASTED ON THE PARCEL 


Form P. P. Triplicate oopy to be submitted to the 

Reserve Bank through an authorised 
dealer in foreign exohange. 

EXOHANCffl Contboi. 


Serial No. Paroel Receipt No. 

Name of Post Office — 

{Declaration required from exporter before /tending goods by parcel post to certain countries outside 

India) 

1. Name and address of exporter — 


2. Name and address of consignee 


3. Short description and quantity of goods — — - ■ . — • — — 

4. Invoioe value of goods stating currency * 

I hereby declare that I am the seller/oonsignor of the goods in reapeot of whioh this deole- 

K lon is made and that the particulars given above are true and 

Itrike out -(-(a) (») that the invoice value declared is the full export value of the goods; 

(i) or (it) which- 
ever is not 
applicable. 

(ii) that this is a fair valuation of the goods whioh are unsold; 

♦Give npproxi- (6) that I undertake to deliver to the bonk mentioned below the foreign 
mate date of exohange/rupee proceeds resulting from the export of these goods on or 

delivery whioh before* in a manner prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India. 

must be within 
6 months of 
export. 


(Signature of Exporter). 
Date 


(Name and address of bank in India through 
whom payment is to be received) . 






738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part H— Sec. 9 


Certificate by batik through u-liom payment is received: 

i Strike out §(A) We confirm that—— — - — — — — — -was received by ns 

(A) or (B) (state currency and amount received) 

whichever on from- — — • — - ■ — — — 

tonot appll- (name of country from which payment was reooivw 

•able. 

5(13) We confirm thst the documentary evidence of the return of the poods to India h u*r 
been seen by us. 

Address—— — — — — 

(Signature of authorised dealer) — - 


Note.— (i) All documents relating to exports of goods from India must be passed through tho 
medium of an authorised dealer in foreign exchange. 

(it) All details of this form must bo correctly oompleted. 


SECOND SCHEDULE 


Name of countries 

1 


Approved methods of finance 
« 


A. The Belgian Monet ary Area (ti) The currency of the country of import 

Canada or of any other country in the monetary 

Egypt (including Cam Strip) The French Franc area, 
area (excluding the French possessions in 


India). 

The French Somali Coast 
The Portuguese Monetary Area (excluding 
the Portuguese possessions in India) 
Switzerland and Liechtenstein 
The Dutch Monetary Area (excluding the 
Republic of Indonesia and Dutch New 
Guinea) 

Denmark (including Faroe Islands) and 
Greenland 
Norwsy 
Sweden, 

B. U.SA. and any territories under the sovereignty 
of the U.S.A. 

Philippine Islands 
Bolivia 
Columbia 
Costa Rica 
Cuba 

Dominican Republlo 

Boa under 

Guatemala 

Haiti 

Honduras 

Mexico 

Nicaragua 

Panama 

Salvador 

Venezuela. 

O. The Scheduled Territories i.e. The “British 
Commonwealth (except Canada) 

The Irish Repuhlio 

British Trust Territories 

British Protectorates and Protected States 


(b) Sterling from the account of a resident in 
the country of import or of any ot.he* 
country in the same monetary area. 

A 

(c) Rupees from the account of a bank iw 
the country of import or of any other 
country in the same monetary area. 


(а) U.S. dollars. 

(б) Sterling from the account of a resident 
in any country in the group. 

(c) Rupees from tho account of a bank 
the group. 


(«) Sterling or any sterling area currency 
other than Indian and Pakistan rupee* 
from the account of a resident in any 
country in this group other than India 
and Pakistan. 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


73£ 


l 


Burma (6) llupenn from tlio account of u bank in 

Iraq any country in tins group other than 

Iceland India and Pakistan. 

The Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan 
Libya. 

Note.— Payment for exports to Pakistan may only he received in Pakistan rupees or in Indian 
rupees from the account of a bank in the country of import. 

D. All countries not mentioned in Groups A, B (a) Sterling from the account of a resident 
and G abovo. in the country of import. 

( b ) Rupees from the account of a bank in 
the country of import, 

[No. (!(8)-EF.II/S2.] 

S.R.O. 767. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12. 
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Finance Department No. 12(17)-F.I./ 47, 
dated the 4th August, L517, namely: — 

Amendment 

In the said notification for the words “is furnished by the exporter .. 

within a period specified by the Reserve Bank”, the following words shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

‘‘supported by such evidence as may be prescribed is furnished by the 
exporter to the prescribed authority that the amount representing the 
full export vaiue of the goods has been, or will, withih the prescribed 
period be, paid in the prescribed manner.” 

[No. 6(8)-EF.II/52.]! 

S.R.O. 7GS. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12. 
of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification, 
of the Government of India in the late Finance Department No. l2(18)-F.I./47, 
dated the 4th August, 1947, namely:— 

Amendment 

In the said notification for the words “is furnished by the exporter 

within s period specified by the Reserve Bank”, the following words shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“supported by such evidence a's may be prescribed is furnished by the 
exporter to the prescribed authority that the amount representing the 
full export value of the goods has been, or will, within the prescribed 
period be, paid in the prescribed manner.” 

[No. 6(8)-EF .11/52,]] 
S. S. SHIR ALK All , Dy. Secy. 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Central Office 

Bombay, the 26 th April , 1052 

S.R.O. 769. — In pursuance of rule 3 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Rules 
1952, the Reserve Batik hereby specifies that the forms In the First Schedule io 
the said Rules and set out in column i below, shall be used for the purposes of 
declaring the exports specified against each In column 2 below: 


Column 1 
Form 


Column 2 
Purpose 


1. Form G.R. 1 To be used for declaring shipments to all countries other than 

those specified in Schedule annexed to the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Finance Department 
No. 12 (171F1/47, dated the 4th August 1947 except 'Japan, 
Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan, where payment is receiv- 
ed In India by one of the methods specified in the second 
schedule annexed to the above-mentioned Rules. 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1902 [Part II— Skc. 3 


. r , 


Column 1 
Form 


Column 2 
Purpose 


2. Form G.R. 2 


3. Form G.R, 3 


4. Form G.R. X 


6. Form E.P. 


3, Form E.P. 1 


7. Form P.P. 


To be used for declaring shipments to countries outside the 
sterling area where such shipments are financed under 
guarantee given by the United Kingdom agents of the ex- 
porters to the Bank of England to deliver to it the appro- 
priate foreign currency or to obtain payment In sterling 
from an appropriate sterling non-resident account in the 
United Kingdom. 

To be used for declaring exports to the scheduled territories 
(sterling area) by shippers who under special arrangements 
made with the Reserve Bank of India are permitted to 
retain the proceeds of their exports to the scheduled terri- 
tories with agents or branches in the United Kingdom or 
other sterling area countries and to utilise those proceeds to 
finance their imports into India from any sterling area 
country or to make other approved types of payments in 
such countries. 

To be used for declaring exports to Japan and Iran to which 
countries shipment is only permitted to be made subject to 
full payment being received In India in advance from the 
consignee abroad or under a confirmed irrevocable credit 
opened by the consignee in favour of the exporter. 

To be used for declaring exports to Pakistan or Afghanistan 
where payment is received by one of the methods specified 
in the note to item (C) of the Second Schedule annexed to 
the abovementioned Rules. 

To be used for declaring exports to Pakistan and Afghanistan 
by exporters who under special arrangements made with 
the Reserve Bank of India are permitted to retain the pro- 
ceeds of their exports to those countries and to utilise them 
for payment of imports from those countries into India. 
To be used for declaring exports by post parcel to all coun- 
tries other than those specified in the Schedule annexed to 
the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Finance Department No. 12(lB)-FI/47, dated the 4th August, 
1947. 


[No. F.E.R. A. 1 1 1 /52-R.B. J 
B. RAMA RAU. Governor. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 23 rd April 1992 

S.R.O 770. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of section 9 of 
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), the Central Government hereby remits 
retrospectively the stamp duly charged on the perpetual lease deed, dated tho 
31st March 1992, executed in favour of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Govern- 
ment of Japan, in respect of a plot of land measuring 5.99 acres in the area known 
as ‘Diplomatic Enclave’ in New Delhi. 

[No. 3.] 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 771. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea Cus- 
toms Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878). the Central Government hereby exempts Aquarium 
fish, falling under item 3 of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 





-Part U—SltcJl ; THE GAZETTE Of INDIA* MAY*, 1M3 


■*: 


{XXXII of 1934), imported into India, from the payment of whole of the cub torn* 
duty leviable thereon. 


[No. «.j: 


New Delhi, the 3rd May 1952 

S.K.O. 772. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), the Central Government hereby rescinds notification* 
Nos. 00, 61 and 62-Customs, dated the 24th July 1951. 

[No. 12.) 
D. P. AN AND, Dy. Secy. 


central board of revenue 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 28 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 773. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Income-tax Rules, 1922, which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make In 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 59 of the Indian 
Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), is published as required by sub-section (4) 
of the said section, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 24th May, 1952. 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
-respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the said 
-Board. 


Draft Amendments 

“In the said Rules — 

(1) In rule 2 — 

(i) for clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e), the following shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

“(a) where the firm is not registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 
1932 (IX of 1932), and is being registered for the first time under the 
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), within a period of three 
months of the constitution of the firm; 

(b) where the firm is registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1933 

(IX of 1932), before the end of the ‘previous year’ in relation to the 
firm; and 

(c) where the registration of the firm under the Indian Income-tax, 1922 

(XI of 1922), is being renewed for any year under rule 6, before the 
30th day for June of that year. 

Provided that the Income-tax Officer may entertain an application made 
after the expiry of the time specified in clause (a), (b) or (c), if he 1* 
satisfied that the firm was prevented by sufficient cause from making 
the application within the specified time.’’ 

(ii) in the existing proviso, after the word ‘provided’ the word ‘further’ 

shall be Inserted. 

2. In rule 6, the words, letters, brackets and figures beginning with "The 
application’’ and ending with the word and figure “Rule 2” shall be omitted. 

[No. 28-T 
S. P. LAHIRI, Secy. 


Income-tax 


New Delhi the 28 th April 1952 


S.R.O. 774.— In pursuance of sub-section (4) of section 5 of the Indian 
Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue directs that the 



742 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 


[Part II— Sec, 3 


following further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appended to its 
notification No. 32-Income-tax, dated the 9th November, 1940 , namely: — 

1. In the said Schedule under the sub-head ‘I-Madras’ for the existing Ranges 
and Income-tax Circles, the following Ranges and Income-tax Circles shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

Vijyawada Range. 

1. Vizianagaram. 

2. Vishukapatnam. 

3. Coconada. 

4. Rajnhmundry, 

5. ElJoie. 

6. Mnsulipatam. 

7. Vijayawada. 

8. Special Survey Circle 
No. 1, Vijayawada. 

Madras ‘S' Range. 

1. Madras City Circle [II. 

2. Madras Hindi Circle. 

3. Madras (Special North), 

4. Erode. 

5. Madras Special Circle. 

0. Special Survey Circlo 
No. II. Madras. 

7. Kacheepuram. 

8. Cuddalore. 

9. Nagapattlnam. 

10. Taujore. 

11. Chiltoor. 

TiruchirapaUi Range. 

1. TiruchirapaUi. 

2. Kaiaikudi. 

3. Pudukottai. 

Madhurai Range. 

1. Madhurai, 

2. Madhurai (Special) CircTa, 

3. Virudhunagar. 

4. Tirunelvell. 

5. Tuticorin. 

6. Dindigul. 

7. Special Survey Circle 
No. Ill, Madhurai. 

Madras ' A ’ Range. 

1. Madras City Circle I. 

2. Madras City Circle IV. 

3. Madras Salaries Circle. 

4. Madras (Special) Central. 

5. Vellorc- 

6. Salem. 

Madras ‘C Range. 

1. Madras (Special) South. 

2. Madras (Special) East. 

3. Madras City Circle II. 



Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 




7431 - 


4. Nellore. 

5. Bapatia. 

6. Tenali. 

7. Guntur. 

8. Cuddapsb. 

Coimbatore Range. 

1. Coimbatore. 

2. Coimbatore (Special) Circle. 

3. Ootacamund. 

4. Palghat. 

5. Calicut. 

6. Mangalore. 

7. Special Survey Circle No. IV, Coimbatore. 

2, In the said Schedule under the sub-bead ‘X-Mysore, Travancore. Cochin and 
Coorg’ against Bangalore Range, the following entries shall be added: — 

11. Kurnooi. 

12. Bellary. 

13. Anantf.pur. 

3. Where, an Income-tax Circle stands transferred by this notification from one 
Range to another Range, appeals arising out of assessments made in that Income-- 
tax Circle anti pending immediately before the date of this notification before 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax 
Circle is transferred shall on and from the date of this notification be transferred 
to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom 
the said Circle is transferred. 

[No. 26.] 
K. B. DEB, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

- New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 775. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by clause (b) of section 4 of 
the Essential Supplies (Temporary Power's) Act, 1946 (XXIV of 1946), the Central 
Government is pleased to direct that the power to make orders under clause (d) 
of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the said Act shall, in relation to the use of iron 
and steel In the construction of buildings, be exercisable also by the Government 
of Hyderabad. 

[No. SC(A)-4(20).] 


New Delhi, the 23lh April 1952 

S.R.O. 77C. — The following General Order issued by the Iron and Steel 
Controller under the proviso to sub-clause (1) of Clause 3 of the Iron and Steel 
(Control of Production ancl Distribution) Order, 1941, is hereby published for 
general information: — • 

‘Tn eXeicise of the powers conferred on me under the proviso to sub- 
clause (1) of Clause 3 of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production 
and Distribution) Order, 1941, I hereby direct that the following 
amendment shall be made in my General Order issued vide the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry Notification No. SC(A)-4(fifl), 
dated the 5th March. 1952, namely: — 

In the Second Schedule annexed to the said General Order, the following 
entry shall be added to the entries relating to Punjab(I), namely: — 

‘14. S. Santokh Singh ’ Butari (Distt Amritsar). 

Gurmukh Singh Steel. 

Rolling Mills. 

(Sd.) M. K. PowVAUA, Iron and Steel Controller.” 

TNo. SC(A)-4(66.) ] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Faht II—Sec. S 


S.R.O. 777. — Corrigendum. — In the Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No. S.R.O. 1652, dated the 23rd October, 
.1951, published in Part II — Sec. 3 of the Gazette of India, dated the 27th October, 
.1951— 

(i) In the fourth column of the table under entry C.3.(a) Angles — 

(a) for “1/8"’ read "1/8"”, 

(b) for “42/12/-” read “48/(12/-”; 

(ii> Under entry D,5.(i)-Extra for thickness — - 
for “1-5/1"” read “1-5/8"”; 

1 (iiij Against entry F.5. — 

for “Base Price Item No.” read “Base Price Item No. 9”; 

(iv) Against entry T.l.(o) (vi) — 

for “eciflcation” read “Specific ati on”; 

(v) Under entry T.l.(r)— 

for “Copper upto ’5 per cent” read “Copper upto '3o per cent.”. 

[No. SC(A)-2(71)/61.1 
D. HEJMADI, Under Secy. 


Tea Control 

New Delhi, the 29th April 1952 

S.R.O. 778. — In pursuance of section 13 of the Indian Tea Control Act, 1938 
(VIII of 1938). the Central Government, after consulting the Indian Tea Licensing 
Committee and paying due regard to all Interests concerned, is pleased to declare 
that the Indian export allotment of tea for the financial year 1952-53 Bhall be 452, 
720, 021 pounds avoirdupois, being one hundred and thirty per cent of India’s stan- 
dard export figure. 

[No. 44(1) Tea (Plant) /52.J 
New Delhi, the 30 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 779.— The following amendment to bye-law 11 of the Indian Tea Control 
Act Bye-laws, 1938, which has been made by the Indian Tea Licensing Committee 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Indian 
Tea Control Act, 1938 (VIII of 1938), and with the previous sanction of the Central 
Government as required by sub-section (2) of the said section is hereby published 
. for general information : — 

For bye-law 11, the following bye-law shall be substituted, nameJy: — 

“11. (1) Members of the Committee shall be entitled to travelling and daily 
allowances for journeys undertaken by them for attending the meetings of the 
Committee or of a Sub-Committee or such other business of the Committee as 
may be entrusted to them from time to time, at the rates admissible to Govern- 
ment servants of the 1st class under the rules made by the Central Government 
In this behalf and in force for the time being, 

(2) No travelling allowance or daily allowance shall be allowed to a member 
unless he certifies that he has not drawn any travelling or daily allowance from 
any other public or Government source in respect of the journey .and halt for 

■ which the claim is made. 

(3) Travelling allowance shallhbe payable for journey from the usual place ot 
residence of the member of the Committee to the place of the meeting or the 
place where he has gone to attend to any business of the Committee and back: 

Provided that when the journey commences from or the return journey termi- 
nates in anv other place, the travelling allowance shall be limited to the amount 
that would have been payable had tho journey commenced from or terminated 
in the usual place of residence, or to the amount payable in respect of the actual 
journey undertaken, whichever is less: 

Provided further that in special circumstances and subject to the previous 
approval of the Central Government, the Chairman may grant travelling allowance 
ifor journey from places other than the usual place of residence of a member. 




Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 74ff . 


(4) No conveyance allowance for attending meetings shall be paid to those 
members of the Committee who draw travelling or daily allowances: 

Provided that a member who is resident at the place where the meeting of 
(the Committee or a Sub-Committee is held may be paid the actual expenditure 
incurred on conveyance by' him, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 per day”. 

[No. 20l(7)-Tea(Plant)/51.] 
N. V. RAO, Dy. Secy 

*■' New Delhi, the 3rd May 1952 

S.R.O. 780. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1940 (XXIV of 1946), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Cotton . 
Textiles (Control) Order, 1948, namely;- — 

In clause 28 of the said Order — 

(a) in sub-clause (3) for the words “stock of cloth exceeding the total 

quantity of cloth” the words “stocks of cloth or yarn exceeding the 
total quantity of cloth or yarn, as the case may be” shall be substituted; 

(b) in sub-clause (4A) for the word “producer” the word “manufacturer” 

shall be substituted. 

[No. 9(4)-CT(A)/52-8.j 
S. A. TECKCHANDANI, Under Secy. 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 22nd, April 1952 

S.R.O. 781. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the ■ 
Supply and Prices of Goods Act, 1950 (LXX of 1950), and in partial modification , 
of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry 
and Supply No, S.R.O. 503, dated the 2nd September, 1050, in so far as it relates 
to the fixation of maximum price of Soda Ash imported from the United States 
of America, the Central Government hereby fixes the maximum price as shown 
in the Schedule annexed hereto in respect of 727 94 cwts. of Soda Ash imported 
per s.s. "Steel Director” during the month of January 1952 by the Progressive 
Trading Co., 60 Essaji Street, Bombay 3. 


Schedule 


1 2 

8 

4 

5 

Variety of Maximum price 

Maximum price 

Maximum price 

Maximum price 

BOda ash. that mny bo 

11' at. may bo 

that, may be 

that may be 

charged by tho 

rhfln ed by n 

charged by a 

charged by a 

importer. 

distributor. 

wholesale dea- 
ler. 

retail dealt r. 

Soda a eh, Re, 25-3-0 per 

The price speci- 

The price epooi- 

Tho price spec!- 

cwt. Ex-godown/ 

bed in Column 

fled in Column 

lied in Column 

FiO.lt. B"in- 

2 PLUS 

3 PLUS a mar- 

4 PLUS a mar- 

bay. 

(h) ucLnal rail- 

gin not exceed- 

pin not exceed- 


way freight by 

ing aim an eight 

ing Rh. 1-12-0 


g'^oda train or 
actual traiiHport 
chart/cH by ftou 
from Bombay 
to th i place o f 
destination, and 
(b) handling 

cbnrgcB not ex- 
ceeding finnns 
eight per c/wt. 

per owfc. 

por cwt. 


Note, — These prices arc exclusive of local taxes such as Sales Tax, Octroi and 
other local taxes which may be charged extra. 


[No. PC-7(12/52.J 



4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Paht II— Sec, 3 


' New Delhi, the 2 9ih April 1952 

S.R.O. 782. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Supply 
and Prices of Goods Act, 1950 (LXX oi 1950), and in partial modTiealion of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry and 
Supply No. S.R.O. 503, dated the 2nd September 1950, in so far as it relates to the 
fixation of maximum price of Caustic Soda (Flake) imported from the United 
Kingdom, the Central Government hereby fixes the following Schedule of maxi- 
mum prices of the said variety of Caustic Soda. 

Schedule 


Maximum Maximum price that 
“Variety of Ceiix. prico that may be rluugrcl by a 
tie So ilfi may be ilistiiluilor 

chirojci! by 
mi importer 
in certain 

specifii (| luca- 

lil ien 


Maximum 
price that may 
lie r barged by 
a wholesale 
dealer 


Maximum prioe 
that may he 
charged by a 
retail dealer 


(1) (2) (3) (!) (5) 


Oauntio Soda Bombay 
(Flake) Rh. 42-2-0 per 

3 cwfc. drums cwf. F. O. K. 

'imported from Caloutta 

U. K.) Re. 41-14-0 per 

cwl. P. O, It, 

MudraH 

Its. 41-14-1) por 
c\v f , F. O, It. 


TJio price speciliod in 
column 2 PLUS 
(") Actual railway hei- 
ght by goods train or 
actual transport charg- 
es by sea from any of 
the localities iipeei ii,, ( | 

in Column 2 to tiro place 
of destination, and * 
{bj handling charges not 
exceeding mniHH eight 
per mvt. 


The price speci- 
tied in eulumu 
3 PLU13 a mar- 
gin not exceed- 
ing minuM night 
per cvvt. 


The price speci- 
fied in column 
4 PLUS a mar- 
gin not oxceod- 
inc Its. 1-12-0 
por cwt. 


Note. — These prices are exclusive of local taxes, such as Sales Tax, Octroi and 
■>ther local taxes which may^be charged extra. 


[No. PC-7(8)/50.] 
P. S- SUNDARAM, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 24 th April 1952 


S.R.O, 783. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of section 2 of 
he Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Act, 1945 (IX of 194G), and in supersession 
jf the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri- 
culture No. F. 35-13/49-Com. II, dated the 11th August, 1951, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints he following Officers as ‘Collectors’ for the areas mentioned 
gainst them: — 

1) Officers of Customs appointed Within their respective jurisdictions, 
under the Sea Customs Act, 1878. 


2) The Deputy Collector of Central 
Excise, Baroda. 


The districts of Banaskantha, Sabar- 
kantha. Mehsana, Baroda, Dangs, 
Ahmedabad, Kaira, Panch-Mahais, 
Broach, and Surat in the State of 
Bombay. 


3) The Col lector of Central Excise, 
Bombay. 


The districts of the State of Bombay 
other than those specified in (2) 
and excluding Amreli and the 
States of Bhopal and Madhya 
Pradesh, 



. T’arT II— Sec.S} r THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, MAY A, 1954 llfi .. 


<4) 

The Collector 
Madras. 

of 

Central 

Excise, 

(5) 

The Collector 
Calcutta. 

of 

Central 

Excise, 

(G) 

The Collector 
Allahabad. 

of 

Central 

Excise, 

(7) 

The Collector 
Shillong. 

of 

Central 

Excise, 

(8) 

The Collector 
Delhi. 

of 

Centra] 

Excise, 

i) 

The Collector 
Jamnagar. 

of 

Centra] 

Excise, 


(10) The Collector oi Central Excise, 
Hyderabad. 

^-(11) The Deputy Collector in-charge. 
Centra] Excise, Patna. 


The States of Madras, Coorg and 
Travancore-Cochin. 

The States of West Bengal and Orissa. 

The States of Uttar Pradesh and 
Vindhya Pradesh, 

The States of -Assam, Tripura and 
Manipur. 

The States of Punjab, Delhi. Ajmer, 
Biiaspur, Himachal Pradesh, 
Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union, Madhya Bharat and 
Hsjasthan. 

The States of Kutch and Saurashtra 
and the Amreli district Of the 
State of Bombay. 

The States of Hyderabad and Mysore. 


The State of Bihar, 

LNo. F. 35-13. 49-Com.II.] 
S. K. M1RCHANDANI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1952 

S.K.O. 7)14.— The following draft of certain further amendments to the Sann 
Hemp Grading and Marking Rules, 1942, which it is proposed to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and 
Marking) Act, 1937 (T of 1937). is published as required by the said section for 
the information of all persons likely to be afl'ected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the draft will l:e taken into consideration on or after t,he 1st .Tune, 1952. 

Any objections or suggestions which mav be received from any person in res- 
pect of the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
■Government: — 


Draft Amendments 

In the said Rules, — 

1. In rule 7 for the word and figures 'Schedule XI’ the word and figure “Schedule 
X” shall be substituted. 

2. In part ‘A’ of Schedule VI — 

(a) after entries under the sub-heading “(iv) CALCUTTA QUALITY” the 
following sub-heading and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

“tv) Dohad Quality 


Special Characteristics 

— • — Average 

Grade De -asm at inns length of General 

Maximum Colour of fibre hunks** Characteristics 

limits of (minimum) 

refraction* 
per halo 

of 40o 
lhs. 


[tarsi Extra Fine 

S lb. 

f roomy to pale 

^roftniflh. 

10" 

(a) The fibre shall 
clean and roanonab- 

[tarsi Kino 

. 12 lb. 

Cronin y, light ureen- 
ish to slightly grey. 

SO* 

ly dry. 


’’’Includes sticks, dust, dirt, etc. — For accidental errors in grading a tolerance 
of 2J lb. pei bale will be permissible. 

• >,, ‘For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 21 per cent, will be permls- 

-siblc. 



748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. S 


Special characteristics 


Grade designation 

Maximum 
limit# of 
refraotion* 
per bale 
of 400 lb. 

Colour of fibre 

— Average 
length** 

of hanks 
(minimum) 

General 

Cl laraot eristics 

Seoni Fine')' . 

, 16 lb. 

Greenish grey to 33" 

very light brown. 

(6) The strands shall, 
ire of reasonably 
uniform length* 

Jubbulpore FineJ . 

. 20 lb. 

GreenUh grey 
light brown. 

to 36' 

free from tangl ing- 
und reasonably frea 
from sticking except. 

Jubbulpore No. 1 . 

. 20 lb. 

Greenish brown 
grey. 

to 30' 

in the case of I 
* shorts 1 where uni 

Shorts . 

. 25 lb- 

Creamy to grey 


foimity in length 
and freedom from, 
tangling shall not 
be necessary. 


•Includes sticks, dust, dirt, etc. — For accidental errors in grading a tolerance.- 
of 21 lb. per bale will be permissible. 

••For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 21 per cent, will he permis- 
sible. 

fSeonl Fine may include Itarsi fibre of 24" and above. 

JJubbulpore Fine may include Seoni fibre of 24" and above. ’’ 

(b) the existing sub-heading ”( /> PILIBHIT QUALITY" shall be renumber- 
ed as “(vi) PILIBHIT QUALITY”. 

3. In part ‘B’ of Schedule VI — 

(a) for the heading of Part ‘B’ the following heading shall be substituted, 

namely: — 

“B. Grade designations and definition ol quality of sunbemp known com- 
mercially as Ganjam or green san hemp (Dressed)”. 

(b) after the heading of Part 'B' the following sub-hooding shall be Inserted 

namely: — 

“(it Calcutta Dressed”, 

(c) after sub-heading ”(I> Calcutta Dressed”, and the entries there-under, 

the following sub-heading and the entries shall be insterted at the 
end, namely: — 

“(ii) Bombay Pressed ” 



Mpeoitil characteristics. 



Grade de«i gnat ion 

1 

Maximum 
limits of 
refraction* 
per balo 

of 4fi0 lh. 
o 

CoJuur of fibro 

length** 
of hanks 
(minimum) 

4 

General 

Characteristics 

5 

Red dressed , 

0 lb. 

Creamy to light 
green. 

36 inches 

(a) The fihro ehuU,)be 
olefin and reasonably 
dry. 

Green dressed 

8 lb. 

Light proen to 

light, grey. 

HO inehes 

(b) The strands whaHi 
be of reasonably 
uu i form. length and 

etrenuth. 

Block dreaaed . 

. 10 lb. 

Darkish grey 

30 inches 

(c) The fibre shall 

be evi nly dressed 
and tVno if on,, 

struppy rout endc 
and taneJe. 

Gross black dressed 

. 10 lb. 

pni’k groy 

30 inches 


•Includes sticks, 

tangled mass 

of very short and 

weak pieces of strands dust, 


dirt etc, For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 2) lb. per bale will be_ 

permissible. 

•♦For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 2i per cent, is permissible. 



n i Tffl: GAZETTE Of INDIA, MAY S, 1852 


Far ^ ,• 


4. Schedule VIII shall be omitted. 

5. In Schedule IX after the sub-heading "(ii) U.P. QUALITY” and the entries 
thereunder the following sub-heading and connected entries shall be inserted at 
the end, namely — 

“(iii) Bombay Quality 



Special characteristics 

General 

ohnraotoristios. 

Grade Deei^a^ionR 

Maximum limits 

of refraction* per Colour of fibre. 

1 ale of 400 lbs. 

1 

2 3 

4 


Red Tow 
Green Tow 
Blaok Tow 


20 lb. Creamy to light The fibre shall be reason- 

green . ably dry, 

20 lb. Light green to 

light grey. 

30 to. Greenish grey to 

grey. 


“■Includes sticks, dust, dirt, etc. For accidental errors in grading a tolerance of 
5 lb. per bale will be permissible." 

6. Schedules IX, X and XI shall be renumbered as Schedules VIII, IX and X, 
respectively. 

[No. F.2-2/52-DTE.II,] 
N. K. BHOJWANI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1962 

S.R.O. 785. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (I) and (2) 
of section 9 of the Cinematograph Act, 1918 (II of 1918), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the rules made by the Government of Hyderabad under sec- 
tion 8 of the Cinematograph Act, 1346 Fasli, in so far as they relate to sanctioning 
of cinematograph films for exhibition shall stand repealed. 

[No. 20/0/51-F.] 


Neiv Delhi, the 28 Ih April 1952 

R.O. 786. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-rule 
--Of rule 11 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, .1951, Shri V. S. Shroff, 
"superintendent in the regional office of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Madras, was appointed to officiate as Assistant Regional Officer at Madras, from 
the 12th November, 1961 to 17th November, 1951. 


[No. 26/66/61-F.] 
C. B. RAO, Dy, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

(Ahchaeology) 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1962 

S.R.O. 787. — In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (VII of 1904), the Central Gov- 
ernment is pleased to declare the ancient monuments In Chamba District, Hima- 
chal Pradesh, described In the annexed schedule, to be protected within th mean- 
ing of the said Act. 






S 1 1 h nh [jTtH 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

Serial 

No. 

District 

Locality 

Name of Monument 

Ownership 

Boundary : North — South-East-Weet. 

I 

Chamba 

. Chamba Town 

Shri Lakabmi Narayan Group Temple Deptt. 
of Templee, Muhalla Hatt- 
nala. 

Enclosed on all sides by streets separa- 
ting it from Ary a Kanya Mahavidha- 
Iaya to its east and Akhandchandi Palace 
to its North. 

2 

Ditto , 

• Ditto • 

• Shri Bansi Go pal Temple 

Ditto 

North and East — Houses . 

South and West — Streets. i 

3 

Ditto 

« Ditto 

Shri Hari Rai Temple 

Ditto 

East. — Poet Office. j 

West Telegraph Office. j 

South A road with Gandhi Gate on it. 

North. — Houses. 

4 

Ditto 

. Ditto 

. Shri Site Ram Temple Muhalla 
Baagotu. 

Pujari Sunder and 
Siripat. 

North (in part) and west and South. — - 
Streets. 

East and (in part) North. — Houses. 

5 

Ditto 

. Ditto 

. Shri Bajreshwari Temple, Bba- 
rdiath. 

Pujari Yjay Perehad 

Enclosed by Pujari ’s house on the .north 
and the hill slop© on the remaining 
sides. 

6 

Ditto 

. Ditto 

. Shri Chamunda Devi Temple 

Temple Deptt. 

On the spur of a hill led upto by a road and 
a flight of steps. 

7 

Ditto 

. Ditto 

Rock Sculpture depicting Site 
Ram, Hanuruana etc. Sar- 
otha, Pargana, Por.jila. 

Ditto 

On a hill slope near Sarotha Nnla. 

8 

Ditto . 

. Ditto 

. Shri Sbakti Devi Temple V. 
Chhatrari, Pargana Piura. 

Ditto 

Adjoining a village flanked, by fseids and 
a eader forest with the old Chamba — 
Bharmaur Road on its Southern side. 

9 

Ditto 

. Bharmaur Police 
Station. 

Larmi {Lakh an) Devi Temple 
Bhaniiaar. 


Groups of temp tea along with a Post Office, 
Kardar’a Kothi and a number of shops 

10 

Ditto . 

. Ditto 

. Maui Mahesh Temple Bhar- 
maar. 

>■ Temple Deptt. 

lied on the plot of ground named Cho- 
wrasi around which there are cultiva- 

11 

Ditto . 

. Ditto 

. Nartingh Temple Bharmaur 

ted fields of the nearby villages and the 

12 

Ditto 

. Ditto 

. Ganeah Tempte Bharmaur 


Chamba- Bharmaur Road crosses it 

from West to East. 


[No. F.4-4/52-A.2.] 
B. CHATTERJEE, Under Secy. 



« 


THE GAZETTE ‘OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Past II— Sec. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1952 

S.R.O, 788. — The following draft of further amendments to the Drugs Rules, 
1945, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 
12 and 33 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940), is published as required by the 
said sections for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 3rd August 1952. Any objections or suggestions which may be received from 
any person in respect of (he said draft b'efore the date specified will be considered 
by tne Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 

In Part IV of Schedule F of the said Rules under the heading “(L) PROVISIONS 
APPLICABLE TO ANTI- VENOM SERUM (ANTI-VENENE)" — 

(a) for paragraph 2, the following paragraph shall be substituted, namely: — 

“2, Standard preparations : No recognised standard venoms are at present 

available.” 

(b) for clause (a) of sub paragraph (1) of paragraph 5, the follow'ng defuse 
shall ' be substituted, namely : — 

“(a) The potency of anti-venom serum (anti-venene) will be expressed as 
the neutralising value of 1 c.c. of the finished product against the 
amount of dried venom (expressed in mgm.) of the species of snake 
from which it has been prepared. The test venom will be dried to 
constant weight and maintained in this state under vacuum. The tests 
employed for estimation of potency will be such as would meet the 
approval of the licensing authority.” 

[No. F.1-5/52-DS.J 
S. DEVANATH, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1952 

S.R.O. 78 9.— Corrigendum . — In this Ministry’s notification No. S.R.O. 561, dated 
the 20th March, 1952, published in Part II, Section 3, of the Gazette of India 
dated the 29th March, 1952, for the words ‘alternatively’ and ‘quadrant’ substitute 
the words ‘alternately’ and ‘guardant’ respectively. 

[No! F 28-58/ 81-MII.] 
J. N. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 28 th April 1952 

SJt.O. 790. — The following, draft of an amendment to the Cochin Harbour Craft 
Rules, 1947, which it is proposed to make, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (k) of sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 
1908), and in supersession .of the Cochin State Harbour Craft Rules, 1124, is 
published, as required by sub-section (2) of the said section, for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft 
will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st June 1952. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the. date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendment 

In rule 2 of the said rules, for the definition of the term “Port” the following 
definition shall be substituted, namely: — ^ 

‘‘Port” means the Port of Cochin comprised within the territories of the 
States of Travancore Cochin and Madras the limits of which have 
been specified in the notification of the Ministry of Transport 
No, 11-P(107)49, dated the 8th January 1952. 

[No. 6-P.II(89)/61.] 
T. 0. PARASURAMAN, Dy. Secy. 



a- , ; , THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1932 tF«U JB^Cv » 

MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 24 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 791, — Whereas , in the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Railway Department (Railway Board) No. 1078-T, dated the 9th March, 1929, 
general rules were made for all railways in the territory then known as British 
India administered by the Government and for the time being used for the public 
carriage of passengers, animals or goods. 

And whereas the said rules were adopted by the Barsi Light Railway Company 
Ltd., and the Madras Port Trust Railway, with the sanction of the Government 
of India in the late Railway Department (Railway Board) conveyed in the Notifies' 
tions No. 1078-T, dated the 21st August, 1929, and 26th June, 1929 respectively. 

And whereas the said rules were amended by the Railway Board’s notification 
No. 809-TG, dated 11th July 1951, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
Section 3, dated the 21st July, 1951. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of the 
Section 47 of the Indian Railway Act, 1890 (IX of 1890), and by the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry, 
No. 801, dated the 24th March, 1905, the Railway Board hereby sanction the 
making of the said amendment in the said rules as adopted by the Barsi Light 
Railway, Kurduwadi and the Madras Port Trust Railway, Madras. , 

fNo. 809-TG.] 

RANJIT SINGH, 
Director, Traffic Transportation, 
Railway Board, 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 


(Posts & Telegraphs) 


New Delhi, the 22nd April 1952 


S.R.O. 792. — Corrigendum . — In the Ministry of Communications (Posts & 
Telegraphs notification, S.R.O. 1546, dated the 6th October, 1951, published on 
pages 1708 to 1798 of the Gazette of India, dated the 6th October, 1951, Part II — 
Section 3: — 

On page 1709, in rule 3(3) — in lino 2, for “sub -r le” read “sub-rule” and in 
line 3, for “sectior” read "section”. 


On page 1710, in rule 12— in line 5, for “Deposi” read “Deposit” and in last 
line for “provision” read “provisions”. 

On page 1712, in rule 18(e) in line 2, for the indistinct word between the 
words “which” and ‘'appear” read “it”. 

On page 1712, in rule 20 — for “cypher” read “cipher”. 

On page 1713, In rule 24(b), in line 2— for “conse quently” read “consequently”. 
On page 1713, in rule 26, in line 2 — for “7” read “27”. 

On page 1713, in rule 27(b), in line 2 — for “23” read “24”. 

On page 1713, in rule 28, in line 2 — for “rate” read “rates”. 


On page 1714, in rule 30, in line 2— for “wr tten” read “written”. 

On page 1714, in rule 33, In line 2 — for “t e” read “the”. In line 4, for “off! e” 
read 'office”. In line 5, for “chargi g” read "charging”. In line 9, 
for “d stricts” rend “districts”. 


On page 1714, in rule 36, in line A— for “he” read “the”. 

On page 1714, in rule 37, in line 3 — for "addr ssed” read "addressed”. 

On page 1715, in rules 40, in line 1— for “sub ect” read “Sublect”, in clause 
(xi), in line 1, for “y early” read “yearly”, in clause (xiii), in line 1, 
for "permanent” read "permanently”, in line 4, for “vearly” read 
“yearly”. 


One page 1716, In rule 40, in clause (xlv), in line 1, for “fe s sha 1” read “fees 
shall”, ... 

On page 1710, in rule 41, in line 4 — for “a firms” read “or firms”. 



Part II— Sec 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1982 1 - 7ft3 


On page 1716, in rule 45, in line 1 — for “th” read “the”. 

On page 1717, in rule 50, in line 3— for "langu ge” read “language”. 

On page 1718, in rule 57, in line 1, for “Alt rations" read “Alterations”, 

On page 1719, in rule 59, In the examples — for “Res onsibility” read “responsi- 

bility”, for “Em hf” read “Emvchf", 

On page 1721, in item IV — for “d livery” read “delivery”- 

On page 1727, in rule 9fi(ii), in line 1 — for "exceesds" read “exceeds”. 

On page 1728, in rule 102, in line 2— for “it” read “its”. 

On page 1728, in rule 105, in lines 2 and 3, for “by tollacted” read “be 
collated”, m line 4, for “located” read “colated”. 

On page 1729, in rule 111, in line 2, for “Cylon” read “Ceylon”, in line 5, for 
“dice” read “office”, — In line 11, for hereinafter” read “hereinafter”. 

On page 1729, in rule 116, in line 1 — for “del vered” read "delivered”. 

On page 1730, in rule 122— in line 1, for “tel graph” read “telegraph”, in 
clause (b), in line 1, for the ifidistinct word between the words "the” 
and “office” read “telegraph". 

On page 1731, in rule 129, in line 2 — for “fo ms” read “forms". 

On page 1732, in rule 132, In line 3 — for “f e” read “free". 

On page 1733, in rule 133, In line 2 — for “pre ss” read “press”. 

On page 1734, in rule 135, in line 1, — for “he” read "the”. 

On page 1735, in rule 135(1), 'n “Note” — for “telegerph o flee” read “telegraph 
office”. 

On page 1730, In rule 135(2), in line 2 — for “unregister d” read “unregistered". 

On page 1735, in rule 136, in line 1, for “pr ss” read “press”. 

On page 1735, in rule 130(1)— in line 1, for “ ueh” read “such”, In line 2 — for 
“En lish" read “English”. 

On page 1735, in rule 136(2) in line 4, for “conclud" read “conclude”. 

On page 1735, in rule 136(4) in line (2)- — for "grea er” read “greater”. 

On page 1735, in rule 140, in line 7 — for “calculat d" read “calculated".- 

On page 1738, in rule 140("4), In line 2 — for “check” read “Check”. 

On page 1737, In rule 14.3, in line 2 — for “r gulat s” read “regulates”. 

On page 1737, In rule 143(2), in line 4— for "preven ” read "prevent”. 

On page 1727, in rule 143(5), in line 1 — for “Bu ma” read “Burma”. 

On page 1738, In rule 149(3), in line 6 — for “Central” read “General”. 

On page 1739, in rule 157, In line 2 — for "wi h" read “with”. 

On page 17,39, In rule 159, in line 3 — for “wo ds” read “words”, in line 0 — 

for “advee” read “advice”. 

On page 1740, in rule 162(1), in line 4— for “aga nst” read “against”, in line 
6 — for “ref nds” read “refunds” and for “accountof (l)” read “account 
of (1)”. 

On page 1743, in rule 176, in line 1, for “tel graph” read “telegraph”. 

On page 1744, in rule 177, under the heading “(d) special Instructions and 
Conventional signs” for "Telegraphe restant” read “Telegraphe restffnte”. 

On page 1745, in rule 180, In the list of languages— for “E odlan read 

“Estonian”, for “FI mish” read “Flemish", for “Icela nda” read 

“Icelandic”, for “Li huanian” read “Lithuanian”, for “Ouolo” read 
“Ouolof”, for “Span sh” read “Spanish”, for “Wei h” read “Welsh”, for 
“Yorou” read “Yorouba”. 


On page 1746. in rule 181, in line 2 — for "tel gram" read “telegram”. 
On page 1740, in rule 181(f), in line 3— for “ori i” read “origin”. 


On page 1740, in rule 181(g), in line 1 — for 
line 2 — for “lengtl” read “length”. 


“begin ng” read “beginning”, 


In 


On page 1748, in the proviso to rule 181, in line 1— for “Chira” read “China” 
m line 2— for “he official” read "the official”, In line 3 — for “Chi e:-;e" 
read “Chinese”. 


On page 1746, in rule, 182, In line 2 — for “C rtify” read “Certify”. 



754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sec. 3 


On page 1747, in the proviso to rule 185, for “tele ram” read “telegram”. 

On page 1747 ; i'n rule 186, in line 2— for “f r" read “for”, in line 4 — for 
“abbre iate” read “abbreviated”, for “th” read “the”, for “cle k” read 
“clerk”, for “hall” read “shall”, for “cros” read “cross”; in line 5 — for 
“pla ed” read “placed”. 

On page 1747, In rule 187, ill line 1,— for “se der” read “sender”, in line 2 — 
for “Th” read “the" and for “whi h” read “which". 

On page 1747, in rule 188, in line 2 — for “ o tain” read “contain”, in line 3 — 
for “foreig ” read “foreign" and for “d stination" read “destination”. 

On page 1747, in the, proviso to rule 188, in line 1— for “t ur” read "four”. 

On page 1747, in the rule 189, in line 2 — for “he” read “the”, for “tele ams” 
read “telegrams”, for “wi hout" read “without”. 

On page 1747,, in rule 190, In line 2— for “requested to so o by” read 
“requested to do so by”. 

On page 1747,, in rule 192, in line 9— for “teleph e” read “telephone”, in line 
10 — for the indistinct word between the words “that” and “belongs” 
read “office". 

On page 1743, in rule 193(ii), in line 2 — for “t ain” read “train”. 

On page 1748, in rule 195, in line 7— for “ u n” read “name", in line 8 for 
“Immediately after’’ read “immediately after”. 

On page 1748, in rule 197, in line 2, for “restant” read "restante”. 

On page 1748, ii rule 198, i'n line 4 — for “non- del very hereof” read “non- 
delivery thereof”. 

On page 1749, In rule 202, in line 1 — for “sign ture” read "signature”, for 
“ignature” read “signature", in line 5 — for "me eantile" read 
“mercantile”. 

On page 1749, in the proviso to rule 203, for the words in lines 5 and 6, most 
of which are indistinct read the following: — 

“be charged for or transmitted. Isolated signs of punctuations shall be 
transmitted only at the request of the sender and shall In such case 
be counted as provided". 

On page 1749, In rule 205, In line 4— for “offl e” read “office”, In line 5 — for 
“particular” read “particulars”. 

On page 1749, In rule 206, in line 1 — for “Sandard” read “Standard”, In line 
2 — for “hour” read “hours". 

On page 1749, in rule 207, in line 1 — for “s nder” read “sender”. 

On page 1750, in rule 208(i), for “abr dged” read “abridged”. 

Oi page 1750, in rule 209, in line 2 — for “ditionery” read “dictionary”. 

On page 1751, in rule 214, in line 2, for "apo trophe” read “apostrophe”. 

On page 1751, in rule 216, in line 1 — for “Mete logical” read “Meteorological”. 

On page 1751, in rule 217, in line 1 — for “contrary” read “words contrary”. 

On page 1751, in the proviso to rule 217, in line 1— for “countrl s” read 
“countries”. 

On page 1752, in rule 218, in line 2 — for “rec koned” read “reckoned”. 

On page 1752, In rule 220, In line 1 — for “ elegraph” read “telegraph” and 

for “itermedlate” read “intermediate”, in line 3 — for “atonce” read 
“at once”. 

On page 1752, in rule 221, In line 2 — for “o flee" read “office”. 

On page 1755, in “Note” under rule 224, i’n line 2— for “lrable” read “liable” 

and in line 4 for “Administra tlon” read "Administration”. 

On page 1761, in rule 261, In line 1 — for “be omes” read "becomes”, In line 2 — 
for “fore gn” read “foreign”. 

On page 1761, in rule 263, in line 3 —for “adlressee” read “addressee”. 

On page 1781, In rule 264, in line 1 — for "Restant” read “Restahte” and in 
line 3 — for “Correspo dence” read "Correspondence”. 

On page 1761, In rule 268, In line 8, for “an” read “and”. 

On page 1763, in rule 282, in line 2, for “or gin” read “origin”. 



Part m W lNDtA- Si^-%. tWr 


' On page 1764, In rule 286, In line 4, for “preseril d" read “prescribed", In 
line 6 — for “pr scribed" read “prescribed". ■ 

On page 1704, in rule 287, In line S, for “tele raph” read “telegraph". 

On page 1764, in the first proviso to rule 287, in line 1 — for “elegram” read 
“telegram". 

On page 1704, in the second proviso to rule 287 — in line 3 for "ne ess ry" 
read “necessary”. 


On page 1704, in rule 288, in. line 5, for “Guidge” read “Guide", in line 7, 
for “re-dir cting" read “re-dlrecting”, in line 8, for “elegrams” read 
“telegrams". 


On page 1704, in jule 290, in line 2, for “a" read “an”. 

On page 1706, in rule 291, in line 3 for “ca cel” read “cancel". 

On page 1705, in rule 292, in line 6 — for “ ins ruction” read “Instruction". 
On page 1700, in rule 299, in line 2, for “te egraph" read "telegraph". 

On page 1767. in rule 308(a), in line 1 — for “Post 1” read “Postal”. 

On page 1767, in rule 313, in line 3 — for “plototelegram” read “phototelegram”. 

On page 1768, in rule 315, In line 2 — for “tore gn” read “foreign”, In line 3 — 
for "teleg am” read “telegram”. 

On page 1768, in rale 318 — in line 1 — for “orig natlng” read “originating”. 

On page 1768, in rule 319, in line 1 — for “eha ge” read “charge”. 

On page 1769, in rule 324, in line 2 — for “The” read “a”, for “periodical,, 
* publication" read “periodical publication” and for “news agency” read 
“Government or press news agency” and In line 3 — for “authorised” 
read “an authorised”. 


On page 1769, in rule 320(1) in line 2, for “news agency” read “Government 
or press news agency” and for “authorised” read “an authorised”. 

On page 1770, In rule 326(0), in line 3 — for “w d” read "word”. 

On page 1770, in rule 327, in line 2, for “meteorol gical” read “meteorological”. 

On page 1770, in rule 328, in line 2 — for “news agency” read “Government or 
press news agency”. 

On page 1771, in rule 334, in line 1 — for “offlcia 1” read “official”. 

On page 1772, in rule 341(2), in line 4 — for “sdeclaration” read “declaration". 
On page 1773, m rule 348(i)(e), in line 2 — for “mandate or” read “mandate of". 

On page 1773, In rule 348(i)(e), for "diplomatic or consular agents” read 
“Diplomatic or Consular Agents”. 

On page 1775, in rule 359 (d),,in line b — for “age c e s” read “agencies”. 

On page 1775, in rule 361, in line 5— for “information obtained instructions 
given” read “information obtained or instructions given”. 

On page 1775, in rule 363, in line 1 — for “36” read “301”, 

On page 1777, in rule 370(h), in line 3 — for “eorrect” read “correct”. 

On page 1779, in rule 380, for “fo ” read “for”. 

On page 1795, in rule 457(1). in line 1 — for “A r fund” read “A refund”. 

On page 1790, In rule 458, in line 5 — for “subsequert” read ‘'subsequent”. 

On page 1796, in rule 459(li)(a), in line 2 — for “radia 1” read “radial”. 

"[T-190/50J 

E. V. VENKATACHALAM, Dy. Secy. 
New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

8.R.O. 793. — In pursuance of sub-rule. (%) of rule 3 of the. Indian Aircraft Rules, 
1937, the Central Government hereby authorizes the. Director Genjfraii of Civil 
Aviation to exercise the powers of the Central Government under clause (c) of 
sub-rule (2) of rule 8 of the said Rules. 


[No. 10-A/59-51.] 




v . ’ TBS GAZETTE OF INDIA/ MAY'S, - 3 p V"? 

- : < — — * ■ — — ■• - — ■ — 

S.R.O. 794. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Aircraft Act, 1934 (XXII of 1934), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Aircraft Rules, 1937, 
the same having been previously published as required by section 14 of the said 
Act, namely; — 

In the said Rules— 

1. For sub-rules (1A) and (2) of rule 1 the following sub-rules shall be sub- 
stituted, namely; — 

“They extend to the whole of India and apply also (unless the contrary 
intention appears) — 

(a) to, and to persons on, aircraft registered in India wherever they may 

be; 

(b) to, and to persons on, all aircraft for the time*belng in or over India: 

Provided that in the case of aircraft registered hr a country other than 
India, the regulations of that country relating to registration, licens- 
ing of personnel, airworthiness and log books shall apply in place 
of the provisions contained in Parts IV, V, VI and IX of these Rules; 

Provided further that the foregoing proviso shall not apply to aircraft 
registered in any country whose regulations are not based on 
standards at least equal to the minimum standards established 
from time to time under the Convention on International Civil 
Aviation opened for signature at Chicago on the 7th December, 1944.’' 

2. After rule 39 the following rule shall be inserted namely: — 

"39A— Disqualification from holding or obtaining a licence— 

Where the licensing authority is satisfied, after giving him an opportunity 
of being heard, that any person — 

(a) is a habitual criminal or is habitually Intemperate in the use of alcohol, 

or is an addict of narcotics, drugs, etc,, or 

(b) Is using, has used or is about to use an aircraft in the commission of 

a cognizable offence or in contravention of these rules, or 

(c) has, by his previous conduct as member of the crew of an aircraft, 

shown that he is irresponsible or is likely to endanger the safety 
of the aircraft or any person or thing carried therein, or of other 
aircraft or of persons or things on the ground, 
the licensing authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
make an order disqualifying that person for a specified period from 
holding or obtaining a licence. 

(3) Upon the Issue of any order under sub-rule (2), the person affected, if 
he is the holder of a licence, shall forthwith surrender his licence to 
the licensing authority, if the licence has not already been surrendered, 
and the licensing authority shall keep it until the disqualification has 
expired or has been removed.” 

3. In sub-rule (2) of rule 42 — 

(a) in clause (iii), the word "or” shall be omitted; 

(b) Clause (iv) shall be omitted. 

4. After rule 42, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

"42A. Pilot not to fly for more than 125 hours during any period of 30 
consecutive days.—No pilot of a flying machine shall, in his capacity 
as such pilot, fly for more than 125 hours during any period of 30 
. consecutive days : 

Provided that without prejudice to the provisions of rule 100, the Director- 
General of Civil Aviation may, subject to such conditions and limita- 
tions as he may specify, by order in writing, exempt any such pilot from 
the provision of this rule, 

Explanation.— For the purposes of this rule, the flying time of a pilot either 
as sole pilot or pilot in command of an aircraft will be counted fully 
and the flying time of a pilot engaged as co-pllot or superaumaray 
pilot will be counted at 80 per cent, of the flight time.” 

[No. 10-A/48-51.J 
P. K. SAMAL, Under Secy. 




MINISTRY OF WORKS, PRODUCTION & SUPPLY 
(Central Boilers Board) 

New Delhi, the 24 th April 1052 

SJl.O, 795, Corrigendum . — The following correction shall be made in the 
Central Boilers Board’s No. S.R.O. 363, dated the 12th February 1952, published in 
the Gazette of India, Fart II — Section 3, date the 1st March 1952, Page 332, 
namely : — 

For the figure “524” read “527”. 

[No. M//BL-304(66).J 
N. P. DUBE, 

Secretary, Central Boilers Board. 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 796 . — In pursuance of clause (b) of section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (XXX of 1952), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby authorise all the Collectors in the State of Bombay to perform 
the functions of a competent authority under the said Act in their respective 
jurisdictions. 

[No. 3187-WII//52.} 
S. V. JOSHI, Dy. Secy. 


Neiv Delhi, the 29th April, 1952 

S.R.O. 797. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Inflammable Substances Act, 1952 (XX of 1952), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Production and Supply No. 
M-102(43)/51, dated the 31st March, 1952, namely: — 

1. The words "and methyl alcohol” and “or methyl alcohol”, occurring in 

paragraphs 1 and 2 respectively, of the said notification, shall be 
deleted. 

2. In item 3 of the Schedule annexed to the said notification, for the 

words “and Nowgong” the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Nowgong, Hanumana and Chakghat”. 

[No. M-102(43)/51.J 
S. K. GUHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1952 

S.R.O. 798. — The following regulations which have been made by the Board 
of Trustees of the Coal Mines Provident Fund in pursuance of sub-paragraph (2) 
of paragraph 24 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. PF15(5)/48, 
dated the 11th December, 1948, and with the approval of the Central Government 
are published for general information: — 

THE COAL MINES PROVIDENT FUND OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT (CONTRI- 
BUTORY PROVIDENT FUND) REGULATIONS, 1952. 

1. Short title.— -( 1) These Regulations may be called the Coal Mines Provident 
Fund Office Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund) Regulations, 1952. 

(2) Thev shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 1st dajr 
of April, 1951. 

2, Definitions . — In these rules unless the context otherwise requires — 

(i) “Commissioner” means the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner. 



758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1982 [Fart II— Sec. 3 


(ii) ‘Emoluments’ means pay, leave salary or subsistence grant, as defined 
in the Fundamental Rules apd includes: — 

(a) any wages paid by the Provident Fund Organisation to the employees 

not remunerated by fixed monthly pay; and 

(b) any remuneration of the nature of pay received in respect of foreign 

service (i.e. service rendered with any other employer with the 
permission of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner’. 

(ili) “Employee’ means any person holding an appointment, the emoluments 
of which are paid by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation. 

(iv) “Family” means: — 

(a) In the case of male subscriber, the wife or wives and children of the 

subscriber and the widow or widows and children of deceased son 
of the subscriber: 

Provided that If a subscriber proves that his wife has been judicially 
separated from him or has ceased under the customary law of the 
community to which the parties belong to be entitled to mainten- 
ance she shall thenceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of 

the subscriber’s family in respect of matters to which these rules, 
relate, unless the subscriber subsequently indicates by express 

notification in writing to the Commissioner that she shall continue 

to be so regarded; and 

(b) In the case of a female subscriber, the husband and children of the 

subscriber and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 
son of subscriber : 

Provided that if a subscriber by notification in writing to the Commis- 
sioner expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family, 
the husband shall thenceforth be deemed to be no longer a member 
of the subscriber’s family In respect of matters to which these rules 
relate, unless the subscriber subsequently cancels formally in writ- 
ing her notification excluding him, 

Note I. — ‘Children’ means legitimate children. 

Note II— An adopted child shall be considered to be a child only when 
the Commissioner or when any doubt arises in the mind of the 
Commissioner, the Solicitor to the Government of India, Is satisfied 
that under the personal law of the subscriber, adoption is legally 
recognised as conferring the status of a natural child. 

(v) ‘Provident. Fund’ means the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Establish- 

ment Contributory Provident Fund. 

(vl) ‘Subscriber’ means any employee of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Organisation admitted to the Provident Fund, 

(vii) ‘Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation’ means the Organisation set 
up under the Coal Mines Provident Fund and B»nus Schemes Act, 
1948 (Act No. XLVI of 1948). 

(vlii) ‘Year’ means a financial year beginning on the 1st day of April and 
ending on the 31st March next following, 

3. Constitution and management of the Provident Fund . — The Provident Fund’ 
■shall be administered and maintained by the Commissioner in rupees in India. 

4. These rules shall apply to all non-pensionable employees holding a sub- 
stantive appointment, in the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation: 

Provided that employees In temporary service may also be admitted to the 
Provident Fund with the, written consent of the Commissioner if they have been 
■employed or In the opinion of the Commissioner are likely to be employed for at 
least three years: 

Provided further that persons appointed on probation to substantive appoint- 
ments or appointed to officiate in an office which is vacant or the permanent in- 
cumbent of which does not draw any part of the pay or count service may, if 
they are confirmed without interruption, be allowed to join the Provident Fund 
with retrospective effect from the date of their joining the service. The monthly 
subscription of a subscriber so admitted under these provisions to the Provident 
Tund shall not be less than 10 per cent, of his pay till all arrears are paid up in 
lull. 

Note. — No employee who Is in receipt of a pension from Government or for 
■whom contribution is paid by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation to any 



769 


Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, MAY 8, 1982 


recognised Provident Fund or on account of pension shall be admitted to the 
Provident Fund. 

8, Nomination. — (1) A subscriber shall, os soon as may be after joining the 
Fund send to the Commissioner a nomination conferring on one or more persons 
the right to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund, in the 
event of his death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid: 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination, the subscriber has a 
family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other than 
the members of his family. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub-rule (1) he shall 
jspecify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees 
In such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his credit in 
the Fund at any time. 

(3) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 
First Schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances. 

(4) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in 
writing to the Commissioner; 

. Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh nomina- 
tion made in accordance with the provisions of this rule. 

(5) A subscriber may provide in a nomination: — 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee that In the event of his predeceasing 

the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass' to 
such other person as may he specified in the nomination; 

(b) that the nomination shall become Invalid in the event of the happening 

of a contingency specified therein; provided that if at the time of 
making the nomination the subscriber has no family, he shall provide 
in the nomination that it shall become invalid irt the event of his 
subsequently acquiring a family. 

(6) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made In the nomination under clause (a) of sub-rule (5) or on 
the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes invalid in 
pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (5) or the proviso thereto, the subscriber shall 
send to the Commissioner a notice in writing cancelling the nomination together 
with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provision of this rule. 

(7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a sub- 
scriber shall, to the extent that it is valid, take effect on the date on which it is 
received by the Commissioner. 

6. Subscriber’s account . — -An account shall be prepared in the name of each 
subscriber and maintained by the Commissioner in the form set forth In the 
Second Schedule appended to these rules. 

7. Conditions and rate of subscription. — (1) A subscriber shall subscribe 
mnnthly to the Provident Fund when on duty or foreign service. 

(2) A subscriber may, at his election, not subscribe during leave. 

(3) A subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave by 

a written communication to the Commissioner before he proceeds on leave. 

(4) Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute 
an election to subscribe. 

(5) The election of a subscriber intimated under this sub-rule shall be final. 

(8) A subscriber shall not subscribe to the Provident Fund when on extraordi- 

nary leave without pay or under suspension. He shall, however, on return from a 
period of such leave without pay or on re-instatement affer a period passed under 
Suspension, be allowed the option to subscribe for that period, at the discretion 

of the Commissioner. The amount of subscription to be paid shall also be deter- 

mined by the Commissioner the general principle to be observed being that the 
subscription should be calculated on half the emoluments drawn by the employee 
before he proceeded on leave without pay or was placed under suspension. 

8. (1) The amount of subscription shall be fixed by the subscriber himself sub- 
ject to the following conditions: — 

(a) It shall be expressed in whole rupees: 

Provided that If the empluments of the subscriber do not exceed fifty rupees 
a month, the amount may be any multiple of a half rupee; and 


750 TJiE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1092 [Fast II— Sec. » 


(b) it may be any sum so expressed at a rate not less than 0i per cent. 
(i.e. one anna in the rupee) ol his monthly emoluments. The Board 
of Trustees may prescribe a maximum limit of subscription not 
exceeding 12£ per cent. 

(2) For the purpose of sub-rule (1) the emoluments of a subscriber shall be — 

(a) in the case of a subscriber who was on duty on the 31st March of the 

preceding year, the emoluments to which he was entitled on that 
date; 

(b) in the case of a subscriber admitted to the Provident Fund on a subse- 

quent date, the emoluments to which he was entitled on such subse- 
quent date; 

(c) in the case of a subscriber who was on deputation out of India on the 

said date or was on leave on the said date and continues to be on^ 
leave and has elected to subscribe during such leave, the emoluments 
to which he would have been entitled had he been on duty; and 

(d) in the case of a subscriber who was on leave on the said date and elected 

not to subscribe during such leave or was under suspension on the 
said date, the emoluments to which he was entitled on the first day 
after his return to duty 

(3) The subscriber shall intimate the fixation of the amount of his monthly 
subscription for each year on the basis of his emoluments and rate permissible. 

(4) The subscriber shall be permitted to increase the amount of subscription 
once at any time during the course of the year; there shall, however, be no cor- 
responding Increase in the contribution by the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Organisation. 

Provided that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and on leave 
for the remainder of that month and if he has elected not to subscribe during 
leave the amount of the subscription shall be proportionate to the number of days 
spent on duty in the month. • 

0. Realisation of subscription. — fl) When the emoluments are drawn on the 
establishment pay bills, recovery of subscription to and the principal and interest 
of advances granted from the Provident Fund shall be made by deduction from 
the pay bills. 

(2) When the emoluments are drawn otherwise, the subscriber shall forward 
his dues monthly to the Commissioner. 

10. Contribution by the Coal Mines Provident Fund Organisation. — (1) The 
Commissioner shall make yearly a contribution to the account of each subscriber. 

Provided that if a subscriber quits service or dies during the course of a year, 
proportionate contribution shall be credited to his account for the period between 
:the close of the preceding year and the date of his retirement or death as the 
case may be. 

(2) The rate of contribution made by the Commissioner shall be 01 per cent. 

(l/16th) of the subscriber’s emoluments drawn on duty or if he has been on leave 
and elected to subscribe during such leave the emoluments to which he wouldJ 
have been entitled had he been on duty. " 

(3) The amount of contribution shall be rounded off to the nearest whole 
rupee (eight annas counting as the next higher rupee). 

11. Interest. — (1) The Commissioner shall pay to the credit of the account of 
a subscriber interest at such rate as the Central Government may from time to 
time prescribe for the payment of interest on a subscriber’s accumulations in the 
Provident Fund. 

(2) In addition to any amount to be paid under rule 17, interest thereon upto 
the end of the month preceding that in which payment Is made, or upto the end 
of the sixth month after the month in which such amount became payable, which- 
ever of these periods be less, shall be payable to the persons to whom such 
amount Is to be paid; provided that no interest shall be paid In respect of any 
period after the date which the Commissioner has intimated to that person (or 
his agent) as the date on which he is prepared to make payment in cash, or if 
he pays by cheque after the date on which the cheque in that person’s favour is 
posted. 

12. Advance.— When the pecuniary circumstances of a subscriber are such that 
indulgence is absolutely necessary, a temporary recoverable advance may, at the 



Pam j;\ ffl OASMTE . INDIA, M 


discretion of the Commissioner, be granted to a subscriber out of the amount 

standing to his credit in the Provident Fund, on the conditions that 

(i) the advance is required to pay expenses on behalf of a subscriber or 
his family on any of the following; — 

(a) prolonged illness or medical attention, 

(b) overseas passage for reasons of health or education, and 

(e) marriage, funerals or ceremonies which by his religion it is ipcurm 
bent upon the subscriber to perform. 

<ii) the advance is expressed in whole rupees and shall not, except for 
special reasons, exceed three months' pay of the subscriber or 60 
per cent, of the accumulation in the Fund, whichever is less and shall 
in no case exceed the amount of subscription and interest thereon 
standing to his credit in the Provident Fund. 

(l:i) a written request is made to the Commissioner showing reasons for the 
request : 

Provided that if the reason is of a coniidential nature it may be communi- 
cated to the Commissioner personally or confidentially. 

13. Any advance shall be recovered from the subscriber hi such number of 
equal monthly instalments as the Commissioner may direct but the number shall 
not be less than 12 unless the subscriber so elects or in any case more than 24, 
the amount of advance being raised or reduced, if necessary, to admit of the 
fixation of .such instalments. The instalments shall be expressed in whole rupee 
arid recovered from the subscriber’s salary in the manner indicated in rule 0. 
The first instalment shall commence from the first payment of a full) months'* 
salary after the grant of advance. 

14. After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid, Interest thereon 
shall bo recovered in one instalment at the rate of 5/(12 per cent, of the principal 
for ench month or broken portion of a month during the period between the 
drawal and complete repayment of the principal: 

Provided that when the advance is distributed to be recovered in more than 
18 instalments, the interest may be recovered in two instalments. 

15. Deductions. — Subject to the conditions that no deduction may be made 
which reduces the credit by moro than the amount of any contribution by the 
Commissioner with interest thereon credited under rule 10 and 11 before the 
amount standing to the credit of n subscriber in the Provident Fund is paid out 
of the Fund, the Commissioner may direct the deductions therefrom and payment 
to the Administrative Account of — 

(a) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 

grave mis-ronduct; 

Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled, the 
amount so deducted shqy, on his reinstatement in the service, be 
replaced at his credit in the Provident Fund; 

(b) any amount if a subscriber resigns hts employment under the Coal 

Minos Provident Fund Organisation within five years of commence- 
ment of service thereof otherwise than by reasons of superannuation 
or a declaration by competent medical authority that he is unfit for 
further service; and 

(c) any amount due under a liability incurred by the subscriber to the Coal 

Mines Provident Fund Organisation. 

10. Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Provident Fund. — The amount 
standing to the credit of a subscriber shall become payable at the time of quitting 
servire or the death of the subscriber in the manner provided by these rules. 

17 The total accumulations in the account of a subscriber less the amount of 
unrecovered advance and interest thereon, if any, shall be paid as follows: — 

(i) to the subscriber on his ceasing to be an employee; 

(ii) in the event of the death of the subscriber having made a nomination 

in accordance with these rules, to the nominee or nominees and in 
the event or such nominee or nominees pre-deceasing the subscriber, 
to the alternate nominee or nominees in the manner indicated in the 
declaration form; or 

(liil in the event of the death of the subscriber without having made a 
nomination in accordance with those rules or whose nominee or 



THE GAZETTE QF INltfA, MAT 3, 1*53 [Part u-i sc. 3 


. nominees or alternate nominee or nominees lias or have not survived 
the subscriber, to the legal or heirs of the subscriber on the production 
by him or them of probate or letters of administration evidencing 
the grant to him or them of the administration of the estate of the 
subscriber or a certificate granted under the Indian Succession Act, 
1925, entitling the holder thereof to receive payment of such amount : 

Provided that If the amount of such accumulations does not exceed rupees 
five thousands it may be paid to any person, appearing to the Com- 
missioner to be entitled to receive it. 


FIRST SCHEDULE [,SVb rule 5 (3)] 

Form# of Nomination. 

I. When the, aubaoriber ha# a family and Uriah## to nominate one member therof 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below, who is a member of iny family as deflnej 
in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Establishment (Contributory Provident Fundj 
Regulations, 1952 to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in tho Fund, in the event 
of my death beforO'that amount has become payahle or having become payable, has not boon 
paid. — • 


Name and address of Relationship Ago Contingencies Name, address and re- 
nominee. with subs- on the happen- lationship of the per- 

criber. - mg of which son, if any, to whom 

the nomination the right of the no- 

ahall become milled shall pass in 

invalid. the event of his pre- 

deceasing the subs- 






* >}'' : -fSs i$Sfc]Ertri INDJA, li, . k. S^'Jf , ,7 

Dated this * day of 19 . 

at 

Two witnesses to signature: — - 

1 

2 

Signature of subscriber 


♦Note. — This column should be filled in so as to oovor the whole amount thnt. may stand 
to tho oredit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person, 

I, having no family as defined in ride 2 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Establish- 
ment (Contributory Provident Fund) Regulations, 1952, hereby nominate the person mentioned 
below to reoeive the amount that may stand to my orodit in the Fund, in the event of my death 
before that amount has booome payable, or having become payable lias not been paid:— 


Name and addresa of 
nominee. 

Relationship 
with subscri- 
ber. 

Age 

* ’Contingencies 
on the happen- 
ing of whioh 
the nomination 
shall become 
invalid. 

Namo, address and re- 
lationship of the person, 
if any, to whom the 
right of the nominee 
shall pass in the event 
of his predeceasing the 
subscriber. 






ated this 

at 

T 

. .day of .' 

19 . 


Two witnesses to signature:— 

1 

2 

Signature of subscriber 


’♦Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall specify in this column 
that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently acquiring a, family 

IV. When the subscriber has najamily and wishes to nominate more than one person. 

, I, having no family as defined in the rule 2 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund Office Estab- 
lishment (Contributory Provident Fund) Regulations, 1952, hereby nominate the persons 
mentioned below to reoeive the amount that may stand to my oredit in the Fund, in the event 
of my death before that amount has beoorne payable, or having becomo payable has not been 
paid and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the said persons in the manner 
shown below against their names:— 


Name and add- 
ress of nomi- 
nees. 

Relationships 
with subs- 
criber. 

Age 

•Amount or 

share of accu- 
mulation to be 
paid to each. 

’’Contingencies 
on the happen- 
ing of whioh 
the nomination 
shall become 
invalid. 

Name, address 
and relationship 
of person, if any, 
to whom the 
right of the 
nominee shall 
pass in the 

event of his 
predeoeasing the 
subscriber. 









THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3; 1952 PPart II— Sec. 3 

Dated this day of 19 , 

at 

Two witnesses to signature; — - 

1 

2 

Signature of subscriber 


*Notb, — -This oolumu should lie tilled in so as to oover the whole amount that may stand to 
the oredit of the subscriber in the Fund of any time. 

**Notb. — Where a subscriber who has no family makoH a nomination, he shall specify In 
this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently acquiring a 
family. 


SECOND SCHEDULE 

Provident Fund Account and Abstract Balance of each subscriber 

* 

Namo of subeoribBr Appointment or appointments held under the 

C.M.P.P. Organisation, , . Oorrenp ending dute(n) of appointment , . , 

Account No 

Dtito^of admission to the Provident Punch -Remarks or special provision, if any 


Pay on Slat March oi 
procoding year Bo. . . 
19- 19 

Subscription 

Contribution by the 

C. M. P. F. Organisation. 

Subs- 

cription. 

Re- 

funds 

of 

with- 

drawals 

Totul 

With- 

drawals 

Monthly 
baianoe 
on whioh 
interest 
is oalcu- 
lated. 

* 

Subscri- 
ber’s emo. 
laments 
drawn on 
duty or his 
leave sala- 
ry if he 
elects to 
subscribe 
during 
leave. 

With- 

drawals 

Remarks 

1 

0 

3 

i 

•t fi 

0 

7 

8 

9 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

January ■ < 

February 

March . 

March (final) 

March (supplement- 
ary) 

Total 







• 








■%. 



Part. 11— S*. 3] THE GA^flTTfl OP INDIA, MAY 3, 1863' 766 


Bftlanoo from 10 — ■ 1 9 


Contribution by tho Coni Minos 

Deposits and Refunds as above 


Provident Fund Organisation on 

Interest for 10 —19 

. 

Rt. @ ... . 

Total 


Balance from 19 — 19 

Deduct — -Withdrawals as above 


Interest for 19 — 19 

Total 

Balance on 31st March 19 • 

Calculated by 


Deduct — Withdrawals as above . 

Balance on 31st Maroh 19 

Checked by 


[No. FF.7(5)/51.J. 


New Delhi, the 24 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 795. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal Mines 
Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (XLVI of 1948), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made hi the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund Scheme, namely: — 

In the said Scheme after paragraph 69, the following paragraph shall be in- 
serted, namely: — 

“69A. Obligation to produce documents before Inspector. — Where an Inspec- 
tor In exercise of the powers' conferred on him under clause (b) of 
sub-section (2) of Section 10 of the Act requires any person In charge 
of a coal mine or its office, to produce any document before him, that 
person shall produce such document before the Inspector”. 

[No. PF.2(ll)/52.] 

S.R.O, 790. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (XLVI of 1948), the Centred 
Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the 
Coal Mines Bonus Scheme, namely: — 

In the said Scheme — 

(a) after paragraph 11, the following paragraph shall be inserted, namely: — 

“11 A. Obligation to produce documents before Inspector. — Where an 

Inspector in exercise of the powers conferred on him under clause 
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Act requires any person 
incharge of a coal mine ti its office to produce any document before 
him that person shall produce such document before the Inspector." 

(b) In paragraph 12, after sub-paragraph (2), the following sub-paragraph 

shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(3) Whoever, in contravention of the provisions of paragraph 11A 
refuses or fails to produce any document before an Inspector shall 
be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months 
or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with 
both”. 

[No. PF.2(ll)/52.] 

New Delhi, the 28th April 1952 

S.R.O. 797. — Corrigendum. — In the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O, 585, dated the 25th March, 1952, published on 
page 597 in Part II — Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated, the 29th March, 
1952, for “Mr. R. C. Fldio”, read “Mr, R, C. Fidao”. 

[No, PF.2(1)/52.J 
SADASHIVA PRASAD, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 798. — In pursuance of section 8 of the Minimum Wages Act, 
1948 (XI of 1948), and of rule 3 of the Minimum Wages (Central Advisory Board) 
Rules, 1949, made under section 29 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby 
reconstitutes the Central Advisory Board, consisting of the following members, 
namely: — 

Shri V. K, R. Menon, I.C.S., Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Labour — Chairman. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1&B2 [Past II— SeC. 3 


766 


Independent Members 

Shri B. B. Paymaster, I.C.S., Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Works, Production and Supply, New Delhi. 

Dr, S. R, Sen, M.A., Ph.D. (London), Economic and Statistical Adviser, Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture (Agriculture), Government of India. 

Shri P. M. Damry, I.A.S., Labour Commissioner, Bombay. 

Shri S. K. Haidar, I.C.S., Labour Commissioner, Calcutta. 

Shri J. M. Lobbo Frabhu, I.C.S., Secretary to the Government of Madras, 
Development Department .Madras. 

Shri O. N. Misra, I.A.S., Labour Commissioner, Kanpur. 

Shri R. S. Pande, Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Labour Department, 
Patna. 

Shri Ram Gopal Tewari, Chief Parliamentary Secretary, Government of 
Madhya Pradesh, Nagpur. 

Shri Abdul Lateef Razvl, Labour Commissioner, Hyderabad. 

Shri B. S. Pattaswamy, B.A., B.L., Labour Commissioner, Bangalore. 

Shri H. P. Duara, B.Sc. (Leeds), Labour Commissioner, Shillong. 

Shri G. W. Balchandani, Labour Commissioner, Ambaln. 

Shri P. N. Krishna Filial, Labour Commissioner, Trivandrum. 

Shri S. N. Shukla, Labour Commissioner, Jaipur, Rajasthan. 

Dr. V. K. Chopra, M.A., Ph.D., Director of Industry, Vindhya Pradesh, Rewa. 

Shri N. C. Subaya, Assistant Commissioner and District Magistrate, Coorg. 



Representatives of Employers 


Representatives of Workers 


Scheduled employments which they represent 


Mr. D. May Arrindell, Executive Officer, Em . 
ployeis’ Association of Northern. Tnrlia, 
Kanpur. 

Shri A. Qopalakriahnayya, Rice Mill Owner, 
Godivada K rishna District, Madras State. 

Shri Manoharbhai Patel, Vice President, Reedi 
Merchants’ Association, C/o Chhotabhai Jeth- 
bhai & Co., Gondia. 

Mr. H. F. Clark, C.I.E-, Labour Advisor, Indian 
Tea Association, Shillong. 

Mr. AL S. Haldecwood, President, Association of 
Planters of Travanoore, Kottayam. 

Shri S. A. Narielwala, C/o Tata Oil Mills, Bombay 
House, Bruce Street, Fort, Bombay. 

Shri C. D. Barfivala, M.A., LL.B., Director, 
Local Self Government Institute, 11-Klpbin- 
stone Circle, Bombay. 

Shr i Brij Mohan Lai, I.S.E., Chief Engineer, 
P.W-D. (Building & Roads Branch), Simla. 

Sardar Pratap Singh, Secretary, CP.W.D. Con- 
tractors’ Association, S8-A, Connaught Place, 
New Delhi. 

Shri A. M. Arathoon, C/o Shellac Manufacturing 
Association, Jalda {Maubhum Dist.) 

Shri XJma Charan Lai, Ram chan d Kotir, Poet 
Barganda (Giridih). 


Mr. Tofail Ahmed, Kothi of late Shri Yustf Tmam, Employment in woollen carpet making or shawl 
Mohalla Wetleali Gan}, Mirzapnr. weaving establishments. 

Shri K. R. Kslyanarama Iyer, Ranipet, North Employment in rice mill, flour mill or dal milL 
Arcot District, Madras State. 

Shri G. M. Thaware, President, Independent Em ployment, in any tobacco manufactory. 

Labour Party Bidi Workers’ Union, Nagpur. 


Shri K. P. Tripathi, M.A., B.L., President, 
LN.T.U.C., Assam Branch, Dibrugarh. 

Shri B. K. Nair, President, Kerala Branch of the 
LN.T.U.C., AUeppy, 

Mr. Philip h it. D’Souza, C/o Standard Vacuum 
Oil Co., Wadala Installations, Wadala Bombay. 

Shri B. N. Rathod, President, Bombay Sweepers 
Union, 140, Arthur Road, Bombay. 


Employment in any Plantation, 

Ditto. 

Employment in any oil mill. 
Employment under any Local Authority, 


Shri Lalla Kahar, S/o Sarjn Kahar, Village 
Knthuliya, Rewa District. 


Employment oa road construction or in building 
operations. 


Shri R. D. Saxena, Secretary, I.N.T.U.C., Delhi Employment in stone breaking or stone 'crushing. \ 
Branch, 5, Edward Square, New Delhi. 

i 

Shri Haripada Chatterjee, Poet Jalda, District Employment in any Lac Manufactory. ! 

Manbhum. } 

Shri Rameah Chandra Vyas, President, T-iy-Han Employment in any Mic a Works. 

National Trade Union Congress, (Rajasthan 
Branch) Jaipur. 


<» 

- 1 


t'AHT II— Sec 3] TOE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 



Repress niaiit-ts of Employers Representatives of Workers Scheduled employments which they represent 


Shri Bariodra Gupta, Representative of the Employment in Rubik: Motor Transport 
State Transport Employees’ Union, Home 
(Transport) Department, Writers’ Buddings, 

Calcutta. 


Shri N. C. Ghosh, Director- General |of Trans- 
portation, Home (Transport) Department, 
Writera’ Building, Calcutta. 

Shri A. J. Hardcastle, Messrs. Cooper Allen St 
Company, Kanpor. 

Shri Radhakrishna Das, Keshorpor P.O., Cuttack 

I. 

Shrijfy. R, Samiappa Mudaliar, Mirasdar, Presi- 
dent, District Agricultural Association, Nodum- 
balam, Tanjore Distt., South India. 

Shri J. Raghottam Reddy, Deshmukh, 
gtnumnam (Warangal Datriot), Hyderabad 
State. 

Shri Suren ira Singh Majithia, Sardaraagar, 
Gorakhpur. 


Shri Sorya Prasad Avasthi, TnHian National 
Trade Union Congress (U. P. Branoh), Khalasi 
Lines, Kanpur. 

Shri Nflamani Rautray, C/o Prajatantra, Cuttack. 


Shri G. Narayanaawamy Naidu, Municipal Coun- 
cillor St Kiaan Leader, Mayavaraxn (Tanjore 
Distt,), South India. 

Shri Shanker Rao Chavan, Secretary, Congress, 
Office, Nanded, Hyderabad State, 


Shri Pool Singh, Vakil, Saharanpnr. 


Employment in t annar ies and leather manufac- 
tory. 

Employment in Agriculture. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

" [No. LWI-24(78).] 


1 


CO 


The GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, ;U>fl2 [Part II— Sec. 



Fast II~Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA.MAY 3, S952 1719 


New Delhi, the 29 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 799. — The following draft of an amendment to the Coal Mines Labour Wel- 
fare Office Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1951, which it is 
proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (XXXIX of 1947), is published as required by 
sub-section (1) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into con- 
sideration on or after the 2nd June 1952. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

' Draft Amendment 

In the said Rules — 

In Rule 4 — 

(a) in the second proviso to rule 4, the words from ‘the monthly subscrip- 

tion’ to ‘paid in full’ shall be omitted; 

(b) after the second proviso the following proviso shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Provided further that those employees serving in the Malaria Institute of 
India in connection with the Anti-malaria operations in the Coal- 
fields who were brought under the administrative control of the Com- 
missioner with effect from the 1st March 1951, may also be allowed 
to join the Provident Fund with retrospective effect from the date 
of their joining the Institute”. 

2. For rule 5, the following rule shall be substituted namely: — 

“5. Nomination. — (1) A subscriber shall, as soon aB may be after joining 
the Provident Fund, sent to the Commissioner a nomination conferring 
on one or more persons the right to receive the amount that may 
stand to his credit in the Provident Fund in the event of his death 
before that amount has become payable, or having become payable 
has not been paid: 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination, the subscriber has a 
family, the nomination shall not be' in favour of any person or persons 
other than the members of his family. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub-rule (1) he 

shall specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each 
of the nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount 
that may stand to his credit in the Fund at any time. 

(3) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Forms set forth in the 

first schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances. 

(4) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice 

in writing to the Accounts Officer. 

Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh 
nomination made in accordance with the provisions of this rule. 

(5) A subscriber may provide in a nomination — 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his predeceas- 

ing the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass 
to such other person as may be specified in the nomination; 

(b) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happen- 

ing of a contingency specified therein; provided that if at the time 
of making the nomination the subscriber has no family, he shall 
provide in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event 
of his subsequently acquiring a family. 

(8) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause (a) of sub- 
rule (5) or on the occurrence of any event by reason of Which the 
nomination becomes invalid In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule 



770 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1952 [Part II— Sic. 3 


(5) of the proviso thereto, the subscriber shall send to the Accounts 
Officer a notlco in writing cancelling the nominations together with a 
fresh nomination made in accordance with the proviso of this rule. 

(7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a 
subscriber shall, to the extent that it is valid, take effect on the date 
on which it is received by the Accounts Officer’’. 

3. To clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 8, the following proviso shall be added, 
namely: — 

“Provided that in the case of an employee who under these Rules is allowed 
to join the Provident Fund with retrospective effect, such monthly 
subscription shall not be less than ten per cent of his pay until all 
arears of such subscriptions are paid up in full.” / 

4. To sub-rule (2) of rule 10, the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that in case of employees who are allowed to join the Provident 
Fund with retrospective effect such contribution shall not be less 
than ten per cent, of the subscriber’s emoluments until all arears of 
such contributions are paid up in full’’. 

5. In clause (b) of rule 15, for the words ‘three years’, the words ‘five years’ 
shall be substituted. 

0. For the FIRflT SCHEDULE to the Rules, the following SCHEDULE shall be 
substituted. 

“FIRST SCHEDULE [see rule 5(3)]. 

Forms of Nomination 

1. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member 
thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below, who is a member of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Office Establishment 
(Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1951, to receive the amount that may stand 
to my credit in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount has become 
payable or having become payable, has not been paid: — 


Name and address 
of the nominee 

Relationship with 
subscriber 

Age 

Contingencies on 
the happening of 
which the nomina- 
tion shall become 
invalid. 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person, if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pass in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
subscriber. 



1 




Dated this day of 19 

at 

Signature of Subscriber 

Two witnesses to signature 

1 

2 

II. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one 
member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below, who are members of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Office Establishment 
(Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1951, to receive the amount that may stand 
to my credit in the Fund, In the event of my death before that amount has become 
payable, or having become payable has not been paid and direct that the said 



771 


Past n— Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, MAV 3, 1982 


amount sha'i be distributed among the said persons in the manner shown below 
against their names : — 


Name and 
address of 
nominees 

Relationship 

with 

subscriber 

Age 

•Amount or share 
of accumulations 
to be paid to eaoh 

••Contingencies 
on the happening 
of which the 
nomination shall 
become invalid 

Name, address 
and relationship of 
the person, if any, 
to whom the right 
of the nominee 
shall pass in the 
event of his pre- 
deceasing the 
subscriber 








Dated this day of 18 

at 


Signature of Subscriber 

Two witnesses to signature 
1 

2 

* Note. — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person. 

I. having no family as defined In rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Office 
Establishment (Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1951, hereby nominate the person 
mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, 
in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having be- 
come payable has not been paid: — 


Nam© and address 
of nominees 

Relationship with 
subscriber 

Age 

••Contingencies on 
tho happening of 
which the nomi- 
nation shall be- 
oome invalid 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person, if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pass in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
subscriber 



J 




Dated this day of 19 

at 


Signature of Subscriber 

Two witnesses to signature 

1 

2 

"""Note,— Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall 
specify in the column that the nomination become invalid in the event of his subse- 
quently acquiring a family, 

IV. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one 
person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare 
Office (Contributory Provident Fund) Rules, 1951, hereby nominate the persons 



77,2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, MAY 3, 1M2 [Part II— Sic. 3 


mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, 
in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having be- 
come payable has not been paid and direct that the said persons in the manner shown 
below against their names: — 


Name and 
address of 
nominees 

Relations hip 
with 

subscriber 

Age 

♦Amount or share 
of accumulations 
to bo paid to 1 
each 

♦♦Contingencies 
on the happening 
of which the 
nomination shall 
beoome invalid 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person, if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pass in the event 
of his predeceasing 
the subscriber. 




1 

1 




Dated this day of 19 


at 

Signature of Subscriber 

Two witnesses to signature 
1 

2 

♦Note. — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

••Note.— Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall 
specify in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family.” 

[No. M.l(12)51.] 
F. N. SHARMA, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 26 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 800. — In pursuance of section 11 of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948), the Central Government hereby accepts the resigna- 
tion of Shri V. M. Tarkunde, Bar-at-Law, 8, Ratilal Mansions, Parikh Street, 
Girgaum, Bombay 4, of his office of member of the Employees’ State Insurance 
Corporation constituted under sections 3 and 4 of the said Act. 

[No. SS. 121(53).] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28 th April 1952 

S.R.O. 801. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Imperial Bunk of India and its workmen in respect of 
the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dispute 
for adjudication; ' 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta constituted 
under section 7 of the said Act. 

Schedule \ 

Whether the dismissal from service of Shri S. K. Bhimasena Rao from the 
Bangalore City Branch of the Bank on or about the 13th August 1949 was justi- 
fied and, if not, what relief should be granted to him. 

[No. LR.100(20).] 
S. NEELAKANTAM, Dy. Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 10SK 





