REGISTERED NO. D. 222 


The Gazette 


of 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORIT 


MINOIA 


No . 42 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1968/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 


- - Vuu 


- 


- 


PP 


- 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 
15th November 1958: – 


Issue 
No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


230 - S . O . 2369 - A , dated 13th Election Conimission , Amendment of Notification No. 56 / 1/58 
A . November , 1958 , 

India . 

( 2 ), daçed 12th May , 1958 . 
232. S . O . 2371, dated 15th Ministry of Labour Extending the period of operation 
November , 1958 . 

and Employment of Award of the Industrial Tribunal, 

Nagpur. 
233. S . O . 2372, dated 15th Ministry of Infor Certification of films specified therein , 
November, 1958 . mation and Broad 

casting . 
- - . . . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


. 


PART II — Section 3 – Sub - section ( i ) 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION INDIA 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1958 


S . O . 2445 , — Whereas the election of Shri Amjad Ali as a member of the Lok 
Sabha from the Dhubri Constituency of that Sabha has been called in question 
by an election petition duly presented under Part VI of the Representation of 

( 2531 ) 


2532 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : VOVEIBER 9 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA A , TRHO [ PART II 

- - - - - - -- - - - -- - - : : - - - - - - - -- - - - 
the People Act, 1951 ( 43 of 1951 ) , by Shri Nazmul Haque , Town , P .O . and Dis 
trict Goalpara , Assam ; 

And Whereas the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission 
in 

the provisions of section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of thi " 
il flo t itiohas , in pursuance of the provisions contained in section 103 
the Art on y of its order in the said election petition to the Commis 
son ; 

Now , therre, ursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said 
Act . the Elcction Com ission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal 
IEEE THE MEMBER , ELECTION TRIBUNAL : 

GAUHATI (ASSAM ) 
CORAM : - 

Shri Ram Labhaya , Memher , Elcction Tribunal, Gauhati. 
Shri Nazmul Haque 

Pctitioner 

Versils 
Shri Amjad Ali 

Respondent 
Shri Jahanuddin Ahmed 
Shri Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar 

Opposite parties 

under section 99. 
Counsel for the petitioner _ Shri S . M , Lahiri instructed by Shri A . Sarkar 
Counsel for the respondent and Opposite parties- Shri N . C . Chatterjec and 

Shri R . K . Bose 


JUDGMENT 


The petitioner in this case has challenged the election of Shri Amjad Ali, oppo 
site party , who was elected to the House of the People from 11 P . 38 -Dhuhri 
Parliamentary Constituency . He has prayed ( a ) that the election of Amjad Ali 
be declared void ; ( b ) that he be declared duly elected to the House of the People 
from the aforesaid Constituency ; and ( c ) that the names of certain persons guilty 
of corrupt practices be recorded . 
2 . His case , as set forth in the petition , is as follows: 

( a ) That he is a citizen of India and is an elector to the House of the 
People from the Goalpara Parliamentary Constituency . He was qualificd to seek 
election to the House of the People . The H . P . 38 - Dhubri Parliamentary Consti 
tuency was to elect a member to the House of the People . The polling way to 
take place on 25 - 2 - 57 , 2 - 3 -57 and 6 - 3 - 57 . 
(b ) The Congress party selected the petitioner as their candidate . The 

Opposite party was selected by the Praja Socialist Party. Both were 
nominated after scrutiny of their nomination papers . The election 
symbol of the petitioner was two Bullocks with yoke on . The Res 

pondent was allotted hut as his symbol. 
( c ) After the polling , votes were counted on 10th March 1957 and 11th 

March 1957 . The petitioner polling 73,410 votes. The Respondent 
polled 1,01, 303 votes and was declared elected on 11th March 1957 

under Section 66 of the Representation of the People Art. 
( d ) The Constituency in question consisted of 10 Assembly Constituencies 

Six of these were within the District of Goalpari), The rest ( four ) 
were within the Garo Hills Autonomous District . In four , out of the 
six Assembly Constituencics of Goalpara District, namely ; L . A . South 
Salmara , L . A . Gauripur , L . A . Mankachar , and L . A . Dhubri, the 
majority of voters were Muslims, In the remaining two constituen 
cies of the District, there was a considerable proportion of Muslim 
voters . These voters were illiterate , simple and susceptible to false 
religious propaganda , The Respondent belonging to the minority 
community was responsible for carrying on mischievous propaganda 
on religious and communal lines personally , through his supporters , 
and the Assembly candidates of the Praja Socialist Party and also 
through independent candidates, and this led a vast majority of the 
electors of the minority cornmunity to vote for the Respondent who 


Sec . 3 (ii)] THIE GAZF. ITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGRAHAYANA A, 1830 2533 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


would have voted for the petitioner , but for the objectionable pro 
paganda carried on by the Respondent. They all carried on propa 
ganda systematically through public meetings , group mectings and 
by individual contacts . The persons who carried on propaganda On 
the ling stateci above are said to be Jahanuddin Ahmed , Sahadat 
Ali, Seikh Md Azad Ali, Abui F : zal, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, Santi 

Rov , Hussain Ali Pradhani, Capt. Williamson Sangma and others . 
3 . The campaign against the petitioner was alleged to be mainly on the 
following lines : 
( a ) Banning of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter by the Congress Govern 

ment. 
(b ) Stoppage of burial of Muslim dead bodies and their compulsory burn 

ing instead . 
( c ) Compulsory singing of Ramdhun by Muslim teachers and students . 
( d ) Worship of Tulsi plant in the South Salmara Basic Training Institute . 
( e ) Banning of Azan . 

( f ) Shifting of Jumma prayer from Friday to Sunday . 
4 . In paragraph 10 , particulars are given with reference to dates and places 
of the propaganda carried on in public meetings and group meetings, No less 
than 29 specific instances have been alleged , and the particulars of the utterances 
made at the meetings hav been stated . The character of the propaganda carried 
on generally at such meetings is the same as indicated above. 


5 . It is averred that as a result of the propaganda carried on , as indicated 
above, anti - Congress feeling was aroused amongst the Muslims and a large num 
ber of voters , who were inclined to vote for the petitioner , changed their minds 
in favour of the Respondent. This was due to the exploitation of their religious 
sentiments and susceptibilities. The respondent succeeded in creating an appre 
hension in their minds that their religious rights and freedom were not safe in 
the hands of the Congress Government and the Congress Organisation . The 
petitioner and the Congress Organisation tried to convince the voters of the false 
and illegal nature of the propaganda carried on by the Respondent and his sup 
porters , but illiterate and simple -minded voters were carried away by the glogan 
that their religion was in danger . 


6 . In regard to the Garo Hills Constituency , the Respondent had the support 
of the Garo National Council candidates and particularly of Shri Williamson 
Sangma and Shamser Ali, The Respondent and the two supporters from Garo 
Hills exhorted the workers to refrain from voting for any of the Congress candi 
dates , either for the Assembly or for the Parliamentary Constituency . An instance 
of the nature of the propaganda carried on in Garo Hills is given _ in paragraph 
15 of the petition . It is alleged that there was a meeting on ilth February 1957 
at Bhaidbari Inspection Bunglow where it was preached that the Congress was 
trying to Hinduise Muslims and had banned cow slaughter , Shri Williamson 
Sangma addressed the meeting and stated that Muslims were saved by the Garos 
in 1950 communal disturbances and therefore , Muslims should vote for him and 
for Amjad Ali in the Parliamentary Constituency . Afazuddin Mandal, supporter 
of Amjad Ali, who presided at the meeting , told the audience that the Congress 
Government had stopped cow slaughter which was incumbent on Muslims as a 
part of their religious duty , and that it was going to legislate for compulsory 
cremation of Muslim dcad bodies. In the Assembly constituencies of the Garo 
Hills District, Laskars carried on propaganda for the Respondent. The Laskars 
have powers of general adininistration Police , Criminal and Civil Justice ) and 
they come within the definition of officers mentioned in clause ( 7 ) of Section 123 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The cmployment of Laskars con 
stituted a corrupt practice . 


7 . The petitioner alleges that but for the votes obtained by the Respondent by 
corrupt practices , the petitioner would have secured the majority of votes and 
would have been elected . 

8 . Saiyed Ali, an independent candidate from L . A . Golokganj Constituency , 
issued an appeal on 5th March 1957. It was addressed to Muslim voters , Ite 
represented that he was the only Musiim candidate for the LA , Golokganj Consti 
tuency , and this was a direction from Khoda . He also represented that the 
Congress Government had banned cow - sacrifice . This also helped the Respondent 
In the election . 


2534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 


9. It is further alleged that corrupt practices were committed by 9 persons 
named above . 


10 . Except for the statements made in the first seven paragraphs of the petition 
and the first part of paragraph 8 , the written statement embodies a bald and a 
categorical repudiation of the allegations made by the petitioner in his petition . 
The statement that voters in the Goalpara District were illiterate , simple and 
susceptible to false religious propaganda , etc ., is denied . The allegations about 
the nature of the propaganda alleged to have been carried on by the Respondent 
are also denied , and it is asserted that the allegation that he and his supporters, 
whose names are mentioned in paragraph 9 , carried on communal propaganda , 
was totally false , though it is admitted that these 9 persons were supporting him . 
The allegations made about propaganda in meetings on different dates given in 
paragraph 10 of the petition , are all denied . It is not admitted that the Res 
pondent was supported by the Garo National Council and Shri Williamson Sangma, 
or that he had any sectional support either from the Garo National Council or 
Shamser Ali. The statements made in paragraph 14 are repudiated . It is denied 
that Affajuddin Mandal was the supporter ot the Respondent. In regard to the 
allegations about the proceedings of the meeting, the respondent disclalms 
knowledge. It is denied that the Laskars in Garo Hills come within the purview 
of section 123 ( 7 ) of the Representation of the People Act , The Respondent also 
did not admit that the Laskars carried on any campaign on his behalf 


11. The claim that the petitioner would have succeeded if the propaganda 
attributed to the Respondent had not been carried on , 15 stoutly denied The 
statements made in paragraph 18 about propaganda in the Golokganj constituency 
are also denied . 


12 . The Respondent alleges that he was a nominee of the Praja Socialist Party 
and carried on election propaganda , held meetings at different places on different 
dates , but not in the way and on the dates and places as mentioned in the petition . 
In his meetings , the Respondent tried to impress upon his audiences the programme 
and the goal of the Praja Socialist Party. No propaganda on communal lines was 
carried on , nor was any effort made to excite cominunal feeling . 


13 . The following issues were framed with the consent of the parties , 
( 1 ) Whether the respondent and his supporters and workers carried on 

propaganda on religious and communal lines, As alleged , amounting 
to corrupt practices , within the meaning of Section 123 ( 3 ) of the 

Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
( 2 ) Whether corrupt practices alleged in the petition were committed by 

any person in the interest of the respondent, and, if so , whether the 
result of the election has been materially affected thereby ? 


( 3 ) Whether the election of the respondent to the House of the People from 

H . P . 38 . Bhubri Parliamentary Constituency is void , for the alleged 
corrupt practices committed by him or by any person , as alleged ? 


( 4 ) Whether the respondent, through Shri Williamson Sangma, obtained the 

services of the Laskars in the Garo Hills for furtherance of his 
election prospects and , if so , whether the obtaining of such assistance 
is corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 7 ) of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 ? 


( 5 ) Whether corrupt practices were also committed by Jahanuddin Ahined . 

Sahadat Ali, Şeikh Md, Azad Ali, Abul Fazal, Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar, 
Santi Roy , Hussain Ali Pradhani, Williamson Sangma, Shamser Ali, 
Afazuddin Mandal and Saiyed Ali and, if so , whether they should be 

so named as being guilty of corrupt practices , as alleged ? 
( 6 ) To what relief, if any, are the parties entitled ? 


14 . The petitioner opened his case. He deposed to the correctness of allegations 
made in the petition . He himself did not attend any meeting . His knowledge was 
derived from reports he received about the nature of the propaganda carried on by 
Amjad Ali and others . The reports he received were oral. His reports to Shri S . C . 
Sinha and others were also oral. His case thus depends on the strength and the 
value of the evidence led by him is support of his own statement. He has 
Telied on some documents as well. These shall be consldered under appropriate 
Heads. 


z 


- - 


- 


Szc . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 19, 1958 / AGRIHAYANA 8 , 1540 2535 

- . — . 
15 . Speciflc instances in which corrupt practices are alleged to have been 
committed are given in paragraph 10 of the petition . The first instances is of a 
public meeting held at Fakiraganj M . V . School held on 16th January , 1957 . 
This meeting was convened by Jahanuddin Ahmed , Praja Socialist candidate in 
L . A . 40 Bilashipara constituency , and other workers of the same constituency . 
The meeting was addressed by Amjad Ali, Respondent, Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar. It is asserted that they appealed to the voters to refrain 
from voting for the Congress candidates and to vote for the Praja Socialist party 
candidates on religious and communal grounds. Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to 
the rioting of February , 1956 at a place called Marishbari within the limits of 
Lakhipur Police Station and stated that some houses belonging to persons of the 
Muslim community were burnt down by persons of other communities belonging 
to the Congress party . He further said that such acts of oppression were 
committed at the instigation of the Congress party. Amjad Ali went to the 
rescue of the riot victims. Jahanuddin Ahmed , who was said to have produced a 
copy of the Holy Koran , had a certain portion of an Arabic text read out by 
Maulana Ahmed Ali, and explaining it told the audience that it enjoined cow 
sacrifice on Muslims— an obligation which they could not discharge as the 
Congress Government of Assani had banned such sacrifice and thereby interfered 
with the religious rights of the Muslims. Ahmed Ali protested against this 
interpretation , but he was not allowed to amplify his point. Amjad Ali also is 
said to have spoken on the subject of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter supporting 
Jahanuddin Ahmed . He added that a member of the Parliament belonging to the 
Congress party wanted to introduce a bill stopping burial of Muslim dead 
bodics , and it was at his intervention that the blīl had been kept in abeyance , 
Amjad All also referred to Ramdhun Geet stating that singing by Muslim 
teachers and pupils of this Geet had been made compulsory in educational 
institutions by the Congress Government. He characterised it as a Hindu Geet 
with Hindu religious ideas . The words " Johi Allah Sho hi Ram " were 
explained by him as sacrilegious as Allah was sought to be brought to the level 
of Ram , which injured the religious feelings of the Muslims. Bibhuti Bhusan 
Sarkar also in his speech denounced the Congress party for interfering with 
religious rights of the Muslims and said that though he was, a Hindu , he felt 
that a great wrong had been done by stopping cow slaughter and sacrifice by 
legislation . 

16 . The petitioner has examined thrce witnesses about this meeing. They are 
P .Ws, 12 Makhan Lal Biswas, 13 Abdul Samad Choudhury and 61 P . K . 
Chakravarty . The Respondent has examined two witnesses . They are R . 5 
Asaruddin and R . 6 Alimuddin Mullah . 

17 . Makhanlal Biswas P . W . 12 is a goldsmith . He deposed that when he 
arrived , Amjad Ali was addressing the meeting . Amjad Ali told the audience 
that the Cattle Preservation Act had been passed and cattle under the age of 
14 could not be slaughtered , Besides permission of the Veterinary Surgeon was 
necessary for slaughter. He heard Bibhuti Sarkar prcuching on Saturdays and 
Tuesdays after thc Hat meetings that the Congress regime had banned cow 
sarritice . He also told the people that recitation of Ramdhun Geet was against 
Islamic religion . This witness has not stated anything about Jahanuddin Ahmed s 
speech . His version of Amjad Ali s speech is somewhat different from 
petitioner s. He has also said nothing about Bibhuti Sarkar s speech in the 
meeting 

18 , P . W . 13 is Abdul Samad Choudhury . He heard Jahanuddin Ahmed 
addressing the mecting . Jahanuddin Ahmed recited from the Holy Koran and 
explained that cow sacrifice was enjoined there, and added that the Congress 
Government had prohibited it . He offered the Koran to any one who wished 
to make sure if he was right. A Maulavi from the audience got up and inter 
preted verses read in a different way . Jahanuddin Ahmed intervened and 
supported the interpretation , he himclf had placed . The witness further deposed 
that Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to the Morishbari incident and said that 
Muslim houses were burnt down by the Congress Government. About Amjad 
Ali s speech the witness deposed that he preached that the Cattle Preservation 
Act had prohibited sacrifice of cows below 14 years of age. Permission had also 
to be obtained for such sacrifice . This could be asked for by a stamped applica 
tion , and this amounted virtually to prohibition of cow sacrifice . According to 
this witness , Amjad Ali also referred to the Ramdhun Gect which he had heard 
being suny at South Salmara . This he characterised as un - Islamic . 

19 . The statement in regard to Jahanuddin Ahmed s speech is not identical 
with the allegations made in the petition . The version is different; but it does 
bring out that Jahanuddin and Amiad Ali referred to the Cattle Preservation 
Act, and though in different ways , they impressed on the audience that its effect 


2536 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 94, 1958, AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [PART II 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- -- - - - - . - -- . - - = = = - - - 

. . - - - - 
was to prohibit cow sacrifice and slaughter , and this constituted interference 
with religion . The reference to Ramdhun Geet also lends support to the allega 
tions made in the petition . 

20 . This witness stated when first examined on 26th that he was a member 
of the Congress . On further cross -examination on 5th July , he admitted that 
in Bazlul Basit s petition he had deposed that he was not a congress meinber . 
His explanation of the two contradictory statements is absurd . In that state 
ment he did not state anything about Fakiraganj meeting . It has been pointed 
out by Mr. Bose that Ahmed Ali referred to by the witness in his statement has 
not been examined . 

21 . P , K , Chakravarty (witness No. 61 ) is the third witness . He stated that 
he attended one meeting at Fakiruganj and heard Bibhuti Sarkar and Sahadat 
Ali addressing that meeting . According to him , the meeting at Fakidagan 
was held in February , probably on 22nd or 23rd , He further deposed that he 
had heard of a report that there was a Praja Socialist Party meeting at 
Fakisaganj sometime in January in the M . V . School, The witness was 
admittedly not present in that meeting of 16th January , and , therefore , has made 
no statement about it . The meeting alleged to have been held at Fakiraganj 
in February was not specifically mentioned in the petition . I have not relied 
on his evidence about this meeting . 


22 . R . W . 5 is Asaruddin Ahmed Pandit. Hic stated that he was a teacher 
and secretary of the Co -operative Society at Fakiragnj. The witness gave a 
gist of the speeches of Jahanuddin Ahmed , Amjad Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar. 
According to him , they spoke of matters which had nothing to do with religion 
or religious beliefs of any community or about interference with them by the 
Government or the Congress Party . He admitted that his society could do no 
work for want of funds and also stated that they had come into contact with 
the Prija Socialist party at elections. Alimuddin Molla ( R . W . 6 ) supported 
this witness. He claims not only membership of the Co - operative society , but 
also of the Congress, On this point his statement does not seems probable . 

23 . The allegations made in paragraph 10 ( 2 ) have not been proved . No 
witness was examined by the petitioner to prove that Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin 
Ahmad and Bibhuti Sarkar were responsible for the utterances attributed to them . 
All that the learned counsel for the petitioner could say was that Amjad Ali 
admitted in his statement in Court that a meeting had been held at Barkakali 
but that, by itself, does not advance the petitioner s case any further . 

24 . The third meeting was sald to have been held at Jaleswar on 20th January , 
1957. The allegations made about this meeting briefly are as follows: - - 
( 1 ) The meeting was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed . 

Bibhuti Sarkar, Sahadat Ali, Abdur Rahman , and Maulavi Abul 

Hussain . 
25 . Amjad Ali spoke about the banning of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter, 
He also referred to Hamdhun Geet which , he said , was un - Islamic , and the 
compulsion about its recitation . He also talked about a bill which aimed at 
preventing burial of dead bodies of Muslims, and inipressed on the voters that, 
to safeguard their religion , they should vote for P .S . P . candidates. 

26 . Jahanuddin Ahmed exhibited a burnt copy of the Holy Koran and said 
that it had been burnt by Congress at Marishbari when Muslim houses were 
burnt there. He also spoke of other matters referred to by Amjad Ali. Sahadat 
Ali also spoke about 211 these matters and observed that there acts had 
violated religious rights of the Muslims. Bibhuti Sarkar condemned the banning 
of cow sacrifice , referred to the attempted banning of burial of Muslim dead 
bodles and insserted that Musliin teachers who were undergoing training in the 
Basic School at South Salmara were being forced to worship Tulsi plant, 

27. Five witnesses were examined by the petitioner and two by Amjad Ali 
in regard to this meeting . P . W . 4 Abul Hussain Mandal has made a long 
statement about what happened at this meeting According to him , Bihhuti 
Sarkar told the audienre that the congress passed laws which encroaclied on 
Muslim rights He particularly referred to the Cattle Preservation Act which 
restricted beef eating by Muslims. He also stated that the Congress Govern 
ment had directed singing of Raindhun Geet and was thus making Muslim 
students irreligious. He referred to the bill aiming at restraining Muslims 
from burying their dead , though the attempt proved abortive . Sahadat Ali also 
addressed the gathering. He supported the previous speakers, Jahanuddin 
Ahmed also referred to restrictions on the slaughter of cows by the Muslims, 


Stc . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRATIAYANA 8 , 1880 2537 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 

- -- - 

- - 
and the introduction of the recitation of Ramdhun Geet in Schools, which 
interfered with the religious beliefs of Muslims. The Marishbari incident was 
referred to .by him , and also the burning of the Holy Koran by Hindus, Amjad 
Ali talked of his achievements in the Parliament and claimed that he had taken 
up the matter of Ramdhun Geet with the Government. He also talked of the 
bill aiming at prchibition of the burial of dead bodies by Muslims. He made 
Comments on the Cattle Preservation Act, hinting that it restricted their existing 
rights in the matter , and also suggested that expenditure in moncy may be 
necessary to procure permission for slaughter of cows. This witness is admitted 
ly an active Congress worker . 

28 . Md . Siddeque Hussain is P . W . 5 . He said that Sahadat Ali addressed the 
audience first . He told them that the Congress Government had ordered that 
Muslim students should sing Ramdhun Geet. He further stated that a bill with 
the object of preventing Muslims from burying their dead bodies was introduced 
in Parliament, but it could not be carried through . He further stated that 
Bibhuti Sarkar told the audience that though he was a Hindu , he agreed with 
Sahadat Ali that the measures to which he had referred , were against Muslim 
interests . The witness left after hearing these two spceches , Hs is a student. 
He did not hear Jahanuddin Ahmed s speech . 

29 . Hazi Raisuddin Ahmed is P . W . 14. He said that Bibhuti Sarkar, when 
addressing the meeting , said that ( CW slaughter had been prohibited in plain 
Districts only . Muslim boys were being forced to recite Ramdhun Geet. It 
was likely that Jumma prayers may have to be said on Sundays instead of on 
Fridays. He also referred to the attempt at legislation prohibiting the burial 
of dead bodies by Muslims and put it to the audience whether they would vote 
for the Congress which was responsible for such inroads into their religious 
beliefs and practices. Sahadat Ali supported Bibhuti Sarkar, 


30 . Jahanuddin Ahmed the next speaker , referred to the Marishbari incident 
and showed a partially burnt Koran . He threw responsibility for what had 
happened in Marishbari on Congressmen . Anjad Ali, whilst recounting his 
achievements , told the audience about the bill to stop burial of Muslim " dead 
bodies and claimed that the bill had been thrown out as a result of the 
opposition by him . He also repeated other incidents discussed by previous 
speakers , particularly about the prohibition of cow slaughter, and the likelihood 
of Jumma prayers being shifted to Sundays Compulsion about the singing of 
Ramdhun Geet also way commented on this witness admitted that he had 
focen a congress worker for ten or twelve years . 


31. P . W . 15 is Lal Mia . He has also deposed about the Jaleswar meeting . 
According to him , the speeches followed a set pattern . The speakers appealed 
to the audience for voting for P . S . P . candidates telling them that if they voted 
the Congress back to power, they would lcgislate for prohibition of cow 
slaughter and burning of dead bodies oť Muslims. They would also shift Jumma 
prayers to Sundays . They were already compelling Muslim students to sing 
Ramdhun Geet. This , according to the witness, was the trend of the speeches , 
though different speakers elaborated these points in their own way. The 
witness stated , in particular , that the respondent referred to the attempted 
prohibition of cow slaughter by the Parliament which he, by his efforts , had 
succecded in prevening . This witness also is admittedly an active member of 
the Congress. He could not say how many persons addressed the Congres 
meeting , nor could he reproduce their speeches except one or two matters 
referred to by Shri Fakharrudin Ali Ahmed , 


32 . P . W . 10 is Abul Kasein . This witness supported the previous witnesses 
and deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar referred to the prohibition of cow slaughter , 
compulsion about the recitation of Raindhun Geet, and the prohibition of burial 
oľ the dead by Muslims. He told the audience that they will have more 
measures oť this kind if they voted for the Congress : There was interference 
with their religious beliefs which he even , as a Hindu , could not tolerate . 
Sahadat Ali, according to him , supported the previous speakers . Jahanuddin 
Ahmed spoke in the sanie strain as in mectings referred to above , according 
to this witness . The respondent said that the burla ! of dead bodies cf Muslims 
had been stopped , and this would continue unless the P . S . P . candidates were 
supported 


33. Dulal Chandra Haldar ( W . No. 28 ) , and Ajmat Ali ( W . No . 29 ) are 
witnesses of the Respondent about the Jaleswar meeting. They said that Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , Bibhuti Sarkar and Sahadat Ali addressed the meeting . 
A Maulavi asked if there was any law prohibiting cow killing, Amjad Ali told 


2528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [ PART IL 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


him that during 4 or 5 days of the Id festival, cows could be slaughtered with 
permission if they were more than 14 years of age . According to him , no appeal 
was made to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

34 , Ajmat Ali claimed that he had been president of the Bashamara 
Congress Committee for the three previous years . The witness admitted that 
he had been arrested by the Police once , and the matter had been compromised . 
He denied that he was a P . S . P . worker , 

35 . The next meeting is said to have been held on 23rd January , 1957 at 
South Salmára Bazar in L . A . 32 South Salmara constituency . This meeting is 
said to have been addressed by Jahanuddin Ahmed , Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar 
and Abdul Karim Manda , Amjad Ali condemned anti- Islamic activities of the 
Congress Government and Congress party . These were prohibition of cow 
slaughter , attempts to stop burial of Muslim dead bodies, and compulsion about. 
singing of Ramdhun Geet. The appeal to voters was on grounds of religion . 
Bibhuti Sarkar also talked in the same strain and particularly mentioned about 
worship of " Tulsi plant which was being forced on Muslim teachers in the 
Basic Training Institute at South Salmara . He raised the cry of Islam in 
danger under the Congress Government. Abdul Karim said that the Congress 
Government had wounded the religious feclings and sentiments of Muslims by 
compelling them to sing Ramdhun Geet . Jahanuddin Ahmed also referred to 
the ban placed on cow slaughter and sacrifice by the Congress Government, 
which involved interference with Koranic injunctions. He referred to a text 
from the Holy Koran showing that it cnjoined such sacrifice . He also exhibited 
a burnt copy of the Holy Koran as before , 


36 , Duli Chand Agarwal ( P . W . 9 ) , Gandu Mandal ( P . W . 10 ), and Polen 
Dewani ( P . W . 11 ) are three witnesses of the petitioner who have deposed about 
this meeting . P . W . 9 is a primary member of the Congress . He deposed that 
Jahanuddin Ahmed said that cow slaughter had been prohibited by law . He 
tried to have the law repealed , but had not succeeded , Bibhuti Sarkar , 
according to this witness , also said that cow slaughter had been prohibited and 
that this interfered with the rights of the Muslims. He also spoke about the 
unsuccessful attempt to prevent burial of the dead by Muslims. He also told 
the Muslims that they will have to worship Tulsi plant in their houses if the 
Congress were voted to power . According to him , Abdul Karim said that 
students in the South Salmaru Training School were being made to sing 
Ramdhun Geet , and , in this Geet , Allah had been placed on a level with Rama, 
which was anti - Islamic . 

37 . Gendu Mandal said , amongst other things, that Bibhuti Sarkar referred to 
the Marishbari incident also in his speech stating that Congressmen had burnt 
the houses of the Muslims and had driven them away. In regard to Abdul 
Karim , the witness supported the previous statements . This witness admitted 
that some three years before he hud paid four annas as subscription for member 
ship of the Congress , 

38 . The attendance of this witnegs for further cross -examination was not 
possible to secure without delay which in the circumstances of the case did not 
scem justified . With the consent of the parties the testimony of the witness has 
been excluded from consideration against Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar. 


39 . Polen Dewani deposed that Amjad Ali stated that cow slaughter had 
been practically stopped . Children of Muslims were being made to sing Ram 
Krishna . Abdul Karim also said the same, Amjad Ali said that he had taken 
up the matter with the authorities at Delhi, Bibhuti Sarkar told the audience 
that before they voted for the Congress , they should have " Tulsi plant with 
them , as they shall have to worship it . In addition to the ban on cow slaughter , 
he said that Jumma Prayers will have to be offered on Sundays instead of on 
Fridays, and Azan also will be prohibited . This witness did not hear Jahanuddin 
Ahmed s speech . Amjad Ali produced two witnesses who deposed about this 
meeting . They are Asmatulla Bepari ( R . W . No. 14 ) and Khoda Baksh ( R . W . 
No . 15 ) . 

40 . Asamatulla Bepari deposed that Abdul Karim asked if it was true that 
cow slaughter had been banned Amjad Ali told him that there was no restric 
tion on cow slaughter on Id days ; but on other days, cattle above 14 years of 
age could be slaughtered with permission , and this law had not interfered with 
Muslim religion . Khoda Baksh supported him . He stated in cross - examination 
that his brother, Abdul Karim , had agitated against the singing of Ramdhun 
Geet and he had approached Amjad Ali for assistance . He had also signed a 


Sec . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA X , 1880 2539 . 

- - - 

= = - - - - - - - - - 
representation sent to him . He also stated that he was a member of the 
Congress party and was petitioner s polling agent. He had requested Amjad 
All to explain the significance of the Cattle Preservation Act, 

41. In para . 10 ( 5 ) , it is alleged that a meeting was held at Chunnari on 21st 
January , 1957 in 32 South Salmara constituency . It was addressed by Amjad Ali, , 
Jahanuddin Ahmed, Sahadat Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar , 


42. All four are alleged to have appcaled to voters to vote against the 
congress and vote for the P . S . P . Their speeches followed the set pattern . They 
were impressing on the audience that Congress , by banning cow slaughter and 
sucrifice, by banning or attempting to ban burial of the dead by Muslims and 
forcing Ramdhun Geet on Muslim teachers and students , was trying to Hinduise 
the Muslims. Amjad Ali at this meeting laid emphasis on the fact that the 
Cattle Preservation Act had not been applied to Hills where beef -eating was 
common , and its application was restricted to plains Districts only in order 
deliberately to encroach upon the religious freedom of the Muslims, Jahanuddin 
Ahmed , as usual, referred to the burning of Koran read from it and urged that 
cow sacrifice was enjoined . Maulavi Danish Ali protested , but he was not 
allowed to speak . Sahadat Ali said nothing distinctive though he supported the 
appeal, 


43. Shamsul Haque ( P . W . 17 ) was the 1st witness of the incident. He has 
supported the allegations in this petition in a general way , though in the case 
of Bibhuti Sarkar , he said that he referred to the Marishbari incident, which 
does not appear to have been attributed to him in the petition To Amjad Ali, 
he attributed the statement that the bill to stop burial of the dead had been 
postponed as a result of his efforts. This is more than what he is alleged to have 
said in the petition . The witness is admittedly an active member of the Congress . 


44 . Abdu ] Bari, P . W . 18 , deposed that he was present in the Chunnari meet 
ing . According to the witness , Amjad Ali said that he had succeeded in getting 
the bill aiming at stoppage of burial of the dead thrown out by the Parliament. 
He exhorted the voters to vote for the P . S . P . candidate to protect their own reli 
gion . Jahanuddin Ahmed urged that cow sacrifice had been prohibited by the 
Congress Government, and , therefore , Islam was in danger if the Congress 
remained in power . This witness is a four - anna member of the Congress . He 
did not depose about Bibhuti Sarkar , but R . W . 25 admitted that Bibhuti Şarkar 
discussed the Cattle Preservation Act . 


45 . Amjad Ali has produced two witnesses of the meeting , namely ; Dr. Gopal 
Chandra Saha, RW . 25 , and Birendra Nath Chakravarty - R . W . 26 Both sup 
ported Amjad Ali s version of the case . Dr. G . C . Saha admitted that Cattle 
Preservation Act was discussed at the meeting . Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and 
Jahanuddin Ahmed discussed it. The argument that Bibhuti Sarkar could not 
attend this meeting is completely answered by this statement. The witness 
claimed to be a member of the Primary Committee for three years and a register 
ed medical practitioner . He admitted that the Mandal Committee had been 
formed and he was not a member of the Mandal Committee . He also admitted 
he was not a registered medical practitioner . He attended a Congress meeting 
and cannot say what was said there. 


46 , B . N . Chakravarty could not tell when asked about the implications of the 
Cattle Preservation Act, but admitted that Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and Jahan 
uddin Ahmed talked about it. 


47. The learned counsel for the petitioner did not address the Court at all 
on allegations made in paras 10 ( 6 ) , 10 ( 7 ) and 10 ( 8 ) of the petition . 


48. The ninth meeting was said to have taken place at Gutipara in the house 
of Shamsher All in Gutipara Constituency on 27 - 2 -57. Amjad Ali, Md. Azad Ali 
and Santi Roy are alleged to have carried on propaganda on communal lines . 
Amjad Ali spoke about the attempted ban on burial of the dead hy Muslims and 
said that the bill had been kept in abeyance . He referred to Ramdhun song 
which was sacrilegious for the Muslims to sing, and also said that at Marishbari, 
Muslim houses were burnt at the instance of the Congress . 


49. No specific allegations were made about Azad Ali who is said to have 
appealed to voters on communal grounds. Santi Roy and Md. Azad Ali are 
said to have charged the Congress party and Congress Government with having 
interfered with the religious rights of Muslims, 


- . 


2540 THIE GAZEITE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 PART II 
- : - -- - - - - -- - - - . . - . - . - - - . . . 

- - 

- - - - - - - 
50 . Four witnesses , namely ; Hussain Ali ( 34 ), Juran Ali ( 35 ) , Abdul Gani ( 36 ) 
and Haranuddin Sarcar ( 37 ) , were ikamined on behalf of the petitioner about 
the meeting . Hussain Ali said that Amjad Ali talked about the Marishbari inci 
dent and blamed the Congress for it . li . also spoke about a song called Ram 
Mangal or Ram Lila , saying it was compulsory for Muslims to sing it. IIe also 
lamented the fact that it was not possible for Muslims to sacrifice cows at plea 
sure He told the audience that a law preventing the Muslims from burying the 
dead was about to be passed . Azad Ali and Santi Roy supported him . 

51, The witness denied having embezzled any money belonging to a Traders 
Co - operative Society of which he was the Secretary , but admitted tliat , on a 
check up , his cash was found short and he made up the deficiency . 

52. Turan Ali ( 35 ) has merely stated that he heard some people saying that 
.as a law was being passed by the Congress about stopping burial of the dead 
by Muslims, they could not vote for the Congress . The witness admitted that 
he was convicted in a dacoity case and was arrested in connection with another 
though not chargesheeted . 

53. Abdul Gani deposed that Amjad Ali said that the Congress Government 
was able to prohibit cow - sacrifice and to stop burial of the dead by Muslims. They 
were also forcing Muslims to sing Ramdhun Geet. He referred to the Marishbari 
incident. Santi Roy and Azad Ali spoke in the same strain , The witness stated 
that his father did not attend the meeting . Hasemuddin Sarkar said that Amjad 
Ali told the audience that burial of their dead would be stopped . Musliins were 
being made to sing Ramdhun , He referred to Murishbari incident. 


54. Amjad Ali examined only one witness in rebuttal of petitioner s testimony 
about this meeting . He is Shamsher Ali ( R . W . 11 ) . He stated categorically that 
there was no meeting at Gutipara in his house or in its neighbourhood though 
Amjad Ali, Azad and Santi Roy stayed with him for one night. 

55 . The tenth meeting is alleged to have been held at Gauripur - Goahata . 

56. This meeting is alleged to have been held on 12 - 1 -57 . This was in 
L . A . 39 - Gauripur constituency . The speakers were Jahanuddin Ahmed ( Presi 
dent ) , Bibhuti Sarkar, Santi Roy , Hussain Ali Pradhanl. They are alleged to 
have systematically appealed to elcctors in the name of religion . 

57 . Amjad Ali is said to have referred to the bill to stop burial of the dead 
saying that it was kept in abeyance , and would become law if he were not 
Teturned . He also referred to the Marishbari incident and Ramdhun song, com 
menting on them in a way suggestive of interference with thcir religion by the 
Congress Government. 

58 . Jasem Ali , Md. Azad Ali , Santi Roy , Bibhuti Sarkar all spoke in the same 
strain and appealed to religious sentiments . Jahanuddin Ahmed followed his 
set pattern . 


59. No less than six witnesses of the petitioner have deposed about this inci 
dent. The first is Safaruddin Sarcar ( No , 28 ) . El deposed that Amjad Ali spoke 
about the bill to prevent burial of the dead by Muslinis , which had not been 
passed as a result of his efforts, the buring of Muslims houses at the instance 
of the Congress , and compulsory singing of Ramdhun , Jahanuddin Ahmed 
emphasised the Congress had prohibited cow slaughter which interferred with 
their religious freedom . 


60. Shri Fakharuddin Ali Ahmed addressed a congress meeting to counter 
act the propaganda , 

61. The witness admitted that he had been chargesheeted for forgery and 
cheating ; so was Maksed Ali, the next witness. He renied that he was dismissed 
from Police Service and stated that he had resigned his job . Jie admitted he was 
working for the Congress and also for the petitioner. He made contradictory 
statements on the question whethr he was discharged from sevire 01 had resign 
ed , but was forced to admit on further cross - examination that he had been dis 
charged 

82. Maksed Ali s ( P . W . 29 ) statement is substantially the same in spite of some 
variations here and there . Maulavi Fakharuddin Mandal ( P . W . 30 ) is the next 
witness of this series . The witness stated briefly that Amjad Ali said that the 
Congress had banned cow sacrifice , and an attempt by the Congress Government 
to prevent Muslims from burying their dead had not succeeded on account of his 
opposition . Both Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin Ahmed spoke about Marishbari 


Sec . 9 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2541 
: - - . - G - - - - - - 

- - . . . - 
incident. They said that Muslim houses were burnt at the instigation of the 
Congress . Others, according to the witness , spoke in the same strain . The 
witness deposcd further that speakers asserted that the Congress was striking 
at the root of Islam , and this view was supported by quotations from Koran 
Sharif The witness could not say if Abdul Bari s father and his father were 
first cousins, On further cross - examination he admitted that they were cousins. 
He could not hav whether they were first cousins or distant cousins. The answer 
is evasive . 


63 . Isaf Khan ( P . W . 31) generally supported the charge of appeal on religious 
ground . He said that a village, possibly Jhalikbari by name (meaning 
Marishbari) was said to have been burnt at the instance of the Congress , and 
was vague about a song which was said to be objectionable . Abdul Bari Sarcar 
( P . W . 32 ) is a pleader . He was a Congress candidate for Gauripur constituency 
His statement relates in the main to a Congress meeting. He did not say any 
thing about the PS. P . meeting at Gauripur - Gohata . He stated that he was 
defending Safaruddin and Maksed Ali, and also deposed that the Muslims were 
not aware of the Cattle Preservation Act until P . S . P . members , including Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and others of their ilk began talking about it, to the 
people . He learnt in November , 1956 that P . S . P . were planning to make this 
Act u plank in their election campaign . On further cross - examination he stated 
that Ramdhun Gect was not against Shariat in his view . 

64 . Abul Kalam Azad ( P . W . 45 ) has also deposed about the meeting. He said 
that at the meeting, ban on cow -killing, compulsion about the singing of Ramdhun , 
and also a law preventing Muslims from burying their dead being in the offing , 
were discussed . Jahanuddin Ahmed referred to Marishbari incident in the 
usual way and said with reference to Koran that cow sacrifice , which has been 
prohibited , was obligatory . This witness was appointed teacher in Gauripur Higlı 
Madrassah with effect from 20th May , 1957. Abdul Bari is the secretary of the 
Managing Committee of the School. The witness further stated that Ramdhun 
was being sung in the Primary section of the Madrassah at Gauripur. He did not 
know the text of the song , but said that it placcd Ram and Allah on the same 
level. He admitted having appeared as a witness for Abdul Bari in his case . 

65 . No specific reference to Bibhuti Sarkar s speech was made by this wit 
ness . What is stated is that he was amongst the speakers and appealed to voters 
on the lines of the other speakers . 

66 . Two witnesses , namely ; Sahabuddin Ahmed ( R . W . 16 ) and Bashiruddin 
Ahmed ( R . W , 7 ) were examined about this meeting by Amjad Ali. Sahabuddin 
Ahmed is a member of the Managing Committee of an old School Madrassah , a 
supervisar of the Defence party , and a managing member of the Village Co - ope 
rative Society . He attended the Gauripur meeting. He deposed that on his ques 
tion , Amjad Ali explained the import of the Cattle Preservation Act . HIE admit 
ited that Marishbari incident was discussed , 

67. Bashiruddin ( R . W , 13 ) is a teacher in Islamia Madrassah at Changbranda 
and also a member of the managing committee of the village school. He also 
deposed that on a question by the preceding witness , Amjad Ali explained the 
significance of the Cattle Preservation Act, but added that he did not say any 
thing about the Marishbari incident. 

68 . In regard to the meeting, the parties are at logger heads about its date . 
" The petitioncr and his witnesses have adhered to the statement that the meeting 
was held on 12th January . The case of the respondent and the opposite parties 
summoned under section 99 of the Act, is that tlie meeting was held on 25th 
January . Mr. Bose has argued that the petitioner was mislead by the poster 
for the meeting which announced the meeting for 12th January . He has led 
evidence to show that there was rain on the 12th January and the meeting though 
announced could not be held on that day. The evidence on the point is not hclp 
ful An assistant of the Civil Surgeon Office has been examined who deposed 
that his record showed some rainfall at Dhubri on 12th January . He could make 
no statement about the time of the rain and had no record of rain at Gauripur. 
The only other witness examined on the point by the opposite parties is 
Md. Qudrat Ullah . He supports their version . He admitted that Azad s younger 
brother is Shakat. His sister was married to Shakat ant Azad was a P . S . P . candi 
date for Gauripur. He admitted further that Abul Fazal, Jahanuddin Ahmed , 
Bibhuti Sarkar, Sanli Roy and some others went to his shop on 12th January , 

69. In regard to the date we have petitioner s witnesses four in number. We 
have their word against the witnesses of the opposite parties. The date loseg 
great deal of its significance when it is common ground that A P . S . P . meeting was 
held at Gauripur in which Cattle Preservation Act at least was discussed . 


25 / 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA # , 1880 


PART II 


- - - - 
70 . No argument has been addressed on the allegations contained in paras 
10 ( 11 ) and 10 ( 12 ) of the petition , from either side . 

71. On 14 - 2 - 57, a public meeting presided over by Maulavi Omar Ali was 
said to have been held in Goalachar L . P . School. Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Amjad Ali spoke, accusing the congress Government of enforcing by law stoppage 
of cow sacrifice and cow slaughter and of burial of Muslim dead bodies, and also 
the banning of Azan and Namaz , and the compulsory singing of Ramdhun Geet. 
Bibhuti Şarkar did not address this meeting. 

72. The averment about this meeting receives substantial support from the 
statements of three witnesses , namely , - Goyeshuddin ( P . W . 42 ) , Mokbul Hussain 
( P . W . 43 ) , And Nurul Islam ( P . W . 44 ) . Goyeshuddin was cited as a witness by 
both parties. He has supported the case set up by the petitioner . Respondent 
has himself admitted that the Cattle Preservation Act was discussed in this meet 
ing, though in para , 18 of the written statement, he denied both the meeting and 
the utterances attributed to him and Jahanuddin Ahmed . Nurul Islam ( P . W . 44 ) 
deposed on further cross -examination that the Ramdhun Geet was against the 
tenets of Islam . 

73 . Tahiruddin ( R . W . 9 ) deposed that Amjad Ali explained the import of the 
Cattle Preservation Act on being interrogated about it. He also referred to a 
talk about prohibiting cow slaughter at Delhi. He deposed that he gave greater 
importance to religion than to matters political and Oconomic . Mensubuddin 
(RW . 10 ) supported the previous witness and admitted that if cow sacrifice or 
slaughter is banned it would interfere with Muslim religion . He added that 
Amjad Ali also said so , 

74 . On 15 - 2 - 57, a public meeting was said to have been held at Kadamtola 
L . P . School, at which Jahanuddin Ahmed is alleged to have said that the Cong 
ress Government had been following a policy of gradually doing away with Islani 
by banning cow sacrifice , stopping burial of their dead by Muslims, which might: 
be enforced in the near future, and in other ways . He said that if Congress 
continued in power , Muslims might be compelled to worship like Hindus . Amjad 
Ali supported him . Hafizuddin supported both by reference to Quaranic texts . 

75 . Two witnesses , namely ; Sahadat Hussain ( P . W . 58 ) and B . Beliram Sonar 
( P . W . 59 ) supported the petitioner in regard to this meeting . Sahadat Hussain 
deposed that Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , and Hafiz -Nur Ahmed spoke at the 
meeting . It was said that cow sacrifice had been stopped . If Congress were 
returned to power , the Muslims shall have to cremate their dead . Call to prayer 
would also be stopped . The statement of P . R . 59 is also very nearly to the same 
effect. Sahadat Hussain deposed about three meetings namely ; Bilashipara , 
Bengalipars , and Kadamtala . He was a Congress worker and was getting travel 
ling allowance from the Congress for Election work . 


76 . Amjad Ali has examined three witnesses about the alleged Kadamtala : 
meeting. They are — Shukur Ali Munshi ( R . W . 27 ) , Ilimuddin Sheik ( R . W . 30 ) , 
and Sahar Ali Munshi (No. 31 ) . All three have deposed that no clection meet 
ing was held at Kadamtala Sahar Ali (No. 31 ) has admitted that he was con 
victed in a criminal case and fined Rs. 25 / - once and had been prosecuted for 
getting the wife of some one married to another . This case was said to have 
Hled in default . 

77. This is the first instance in which denial about the holding of a meeting 
has been sought to be proyed by evidence, 

78. Mr. Bose has pointed out that according to the petitioner the meeting was 
held on 15th February . Evidence led shows it was held on 16th February . Since 
the allegation in the petition are based on information received , a mistake like 
this is not unlikely . 

79. No argument has been addressed on the allegations contained in paras . 
10 ( 15 ) and 10 ( 16 ) of the petition . The learned counsel for the petitioner did 
not refer to any evidence by which these specific instance were sought to be 
proved , 

80. On 28th February , 1957, a public meeting was alleged to have been held 
in the Bengalipara H . E . Nadrassah by the P . S . P . Both Jahanuddin and Amjad 
Ali addressed the meeting. Both said that cow slaughter had been banned , the 
Congress party had planncd the stoppage of burial of dead bodies of Muslims, 
and would probably stop Azan and Namaz if not opposed at the election . They 
also referred to the Ramdhun Geet, urging that it was un - Islamic . Nur Ahmed 
lent support to them by reference to texts from Holy Quoran . 


Sec. $ ( 11) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2543 
---- - - ---- - - - - - 

81. Two witnesses, namely ; Abu Bukar ( P . W . 57) and Sahadat Hussain 
( P . W . 58 ) were examined by the petitioner about the meeting. Abu Bukar depos 
ed that Amjad said that if the voters did not vote for the opposition , they 
shall be prohibited from sacrificing cows. Burial of the dead would also be 
prohibited , and Ramdhun Geet shall have to be sung by all, Jahanuddin Ahmed 
said the same, and both were supported by Hafiz Nur Ahmed Sahadat Hussain 
said that Amjad Ali stated that the Congress had stopped cow sacrifice . They 
would prevent burial of the dead by Muslims, and call to prayer would be banned . 

82. Amjad Ali examined two witnesses , namely ; Kalim -Uddin Munshi 
( R . W . 19 ) , Shukar Mohmmad Bopari ( R . W . 21) . Kalimuddin said that he had 
heard of the Cattle Preservation Act from various sources, but it was not dis 
cussed in this meeting at Bengalipara . He admitted that his house had been 
searched by the Police in his absence , and that he was an accused in a complaint 
case , the charge against him being that he, with others , had tortured Shafat and 
obtained from him the divorce of his wife, Shukur Mohd . Bepari is related to 
Kalimuddin . He supported him . Their depositions tend to show that there was 
no appeal to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

83 . No argument has been addressed on meetings alleged in paragraphs 
10 ( 18 ) and 10 ( 19 ) , and no evidence bearing on them has been referred to . 

84 . On 5 - 3 - 57 , Bibhuti Sarkar is said to have addressed a large gathering at 
Bilashipara Hat with the aid of a loud speaker. He denounced the Congress 
Government and the Congress Party representing that the Congress was an 
enemy of the Muslims, as it had encroached on the religious freedom of Muslims 
by stopping cow slaugher and burial of Muslem dead bodies . He swore 
in the name of Goddes kali that if the Muslems voted for the Congress , 
they would not remain Muslems and would have to worship like the Hindus. 
Three witnesses have bcn cxamined about this meeting. Sahadat Hussain 

( P . W . 58 ) is the Arst of the scries . He deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar had a mike. 
He told about 10 to 15 thousand people who had gathered there that the Congress 
had banned cow sacrifice . He swore by Goddess Kali that if the Congress were 
returned to power , Muslems will have to cremate their dead bodies , and Islam 
would vanish . The witness stated that he reported what he had heard to 
Omaruddin who took notes of what he stated . 

85 . Sonahar Ali Goanbura ( P . W . 60 ) is the next witness . He heard Bibhuti 
Sarkar addressing people over the mike at Bilashipara Hat. He said that Muslem 
dead bodies will have to be cremated if the Congress were voted to power . 
Muslems shall also have to follow Hindu customs and manners. 

86. Mofizuddin ( P . W . 62 ) is the last witness of the series . He deposed that 
Bibhuti Sarkar said at this meeting that the Congress had stopped cow killing and 
COW eating and they would stop burial of dead bodies by Musiems. In Delhi, a 
Law had been passed to that effect and the Congress had been Hinduising 
Muslems. 

87 . Amjad Ali examined Sk . Mohmmad Bepari ( R . W . 21) about this meeting. 
The witness stated that there was a meeting at Bilashipera . He deposed that 
„Amjad Ali addressed the meeting but did not make any appeal on religious 
grounds . He admitted , in cross -examination , that Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the 
people from a car at Bilashipara , but did not state what he said . The witness 
stated that Kariumddin was not related to him , but admitted that he was removed 
from the office of Secretary on account of mis - appropriation of Rs. 399 / -. B . C . 
Das the 3rd witness of the opposite party admitted that Bibhuti Sarkar addressed 
the people at the Bilashipara Hat with the aid of a mikei, but he did not appeal to 
voters on religion or communal grounds . His statement, however , was qualified 
by the admission that he did not hear the whole of his speech . The 4th March , 
1957 , was a Hat day at Lakhiganj Bazar , Jahanuddin Ahmed , Amjad Ali, Ismail 
Hussain , Azad Ali and Sahadat Ali, who were workers and supporters of P . S . P . 
attended the Hat . Jahanuddin Ahmed , Amjud Ali and Ismail Hussain addressed 
the people . They dissuaded the people from voting for the Congress Government, 
as it had been responsible for stopping cow slaughter and cow sacrifice . They also 
asserted that it would stop burial of Muslem dead bodies , ban " Azan in the 
Mosques , and that it had also introduced Ramdhun in schools to insult the Islamic 
faith . Muslem women will have to put vermilion marks like Hindu women on 
their foreheads, and unless Moslems voted for the P . S . P , candidates, their religion 
would be in danger . The same evening , Sahadat Ali and Bihbuti Sarkar addres 
sed the people at Lakhiganj and spoke in the same strain 

88 . Teleb Ali Ahmed ( P . W . 55 ) was one witness who was examined about this 
meeting . He is a school master . He stated that Jahanuddin Ahmed, Amjad Ali , 
Ismail Hussain , Sahadat Ali, and Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the meeting . Amjad 


- - - - - - - - - - - 


2544 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 , AGRATIAYANA 8 , 1880 [Part 11 

- - - - - - - 
Ali said that the Congress Govt. had banned cow eating and cow 
sacrifice. Ramdhun Geet was being sung in schools . It was against the teriets . 
of Islam , and if the congress were voted to power, the call to prayers ( Azan ) would 
also be banned . Dead bodies of Muslems will have to be cremated . Other speakers 
repcated all this . 

89. Bibhuti Sarkar said in addition that in future the Congress would require 
vermilion marks on the foreheads of Muslem women - a step in the process of 
Hinduising Muslem women . This witness is a teacher in a Government aided school 
at Lakhiganj. 

90 . Maksed Ali, brother of Omaruddin , was the Head Master of the School at 
the time of the polling, and he was a congress candidate from Bilashipura cons 
tituencies . This witness denied having proposed Maksed Ali. Ismail Hussain 
witness No. 4 of the opposite parties has identified his signature on the nomi 
nation paper . 

91 . Majibur Rahman ( P . W . 56 ) is another witness about this meeting . He 
deposed that Amjad Ali said that Congress had stopped cow sacrifice. He supported 
the previous witness , 

92, Panchananda Nath ( P . W . 46 ) is the third witness of this series. He hcard 
Ismail and Bibhuti Sarkar saying that the Congress had stopped cow killing and 
that there was a bill in the Parliament to prevent Muslems from burying their 
dead. They referred to the Ramdhun Geet as anti - Islamic . The witness is a 
member of the Congress party . He is also the president of the Mandal Committee 
of the Congress . He conveyed what he had heard to Sarat Ch . Singha, president 
of the Congress Committee . He also admitted that Ramdhun Geet was being . 
bung in the primary schools in his locality . 


93 . Amjad Ali examined two witnesses , — ( 1 ) Safiure Rahman (No. 24 ) and ( 2 ) . 
Beru Md. (No. 32 ) . Both these witnesses supported the version of Amjad Ali. 
They said that there was no appeal to voters on communal or religious grounds. 

94 ! The Opposite party have examined Haj Ismail Hussain ( O . P . 4 ) about this 
meeting. He has asserted that the meeting was in front of the Madrassah and 
not in the Hat or Bazar . Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar 
spoke . They made no religious appeal in his presence. He did not listen to the 
whole of Bibhuti Şarkar s speech . He denied that he was dismissed from Lakhi 
ganj Madrassah , but admitted that he had not resigned . The two statements are 
inconsistent. He claims to be the secretary of the managing committee of his 
school and the president of the managing Committee of the L . P . school, 


95 . About a fortnight before the date of polling 16 - 3 -57 ), Jahanuddin Ahmed , 
and Bibhuti Sarkar visited the char area near Chappar falling in Union No. 7 
of Bilashipara polling station , which is exclusively inhabited by Muslems. They 
went from village to village and asked the people not to vote for the congress. 
candidate , as the Government and the Congress Party had framed laws virtually 
stopping cow sacrifice , thus interfering with the religious freedom of the Muslems. 
If the Congress were voted to power , Muslems would not be allowed to bury their 
dead . They appealed to them in the name of religion to vote in favour of the P . S . P . 

96 . Two witnesses , namely ; Alsar Ali (No. 23 ) and Julhas Uddin (No. 33 ) have 
deposed about this propaganda tour. Both the witnesses deposed about group 
meetings in which , according to them , appeal was made to voters to vote against 
the Congress and for the PSP candidates on grounds of religion , by reference 
to prohibition of cow slaughter, anticipated stoppage of burial of the dead etc 


97 . Abdul Gafur (No. 12 ) and Khalil Talukdar (No. 13 ) are Amjad Ali s wit 
ness , so far as this part of the case is concerned . Abdul Gafur claimed to be a 
four - anna nember of the Congress. He deposed that Jahanuddin Ahmed and 
Bibhuti Sarkar went to his place and took him as their guide in the char area , 
and he went with them to several places , Jahanuddin Ahmed was canvassing. but 
did not appeal to voters on religious grounds. 


98 Khalil Talukdar had deposed about Jahanuddin Ahmed s visit to him and 
his advice to him to vote for any one whom he thought fit. The opposite parties 
have complained that the particulars with regard to propaganda in this area were 
vague but they did not ask for further particulars . 

99 . On 3rd March 1957, a public meeting is alleged to have been held at 
Chappar . It was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , and Bibhuti 
Sarkar. Amjad Ali and Jahanuddin Ahmed said that cow sacrifice and cow 


SEC . $ (ihi THE CA /ETTE OF INDIS : VOTENBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2545 
- - - - -- . . - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
slaughter hud virtually been stopped . Bibhuti Sarkar supported this view and 
pointed out how Congress Government had made it obligatory on Muslim boys 
in schools to sinig Hamdhun Geet . 

100. "The version of the petitioner about the meeting receives ample support 
from the statements of P . W . N . C . Dan — ( P . W . 19 ) who attended some Congress 
group meetings in connection with the elections, D . K . Medhi ( P . W . 20 ) , an active : 
member of the Primary Congress Committee , N . C . Roy ( P . W . 21) an active 
member of the Dhuhri Congress Committee, and Mayy -Uddin Sarkar ( P . W . 22 ) 
who is not a membril of the Congress Committee . The last witness is a teacher 
in the Chappar High School, N . C . Dam stated that though the word absolute was 
not used , the imprcssion left was of a total ban . According to the version Sudhir 
Bosc was the President. According to one witness he made some presidential 
remarks. 

101. Sailesh Chardra Nag ( R . W . 7 ) and Abid Ali Şarcar ( R . W . 8 ) were 
exainined on behalf of Amjad Ali. S . C . Nag said that he was the Vice - President 
of the Rural Panchayat. Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar : 
talked about economic matters at the Chappar meeting and did not say anything 
else . He also deposed about disturbances of 1955 . He said there was agitation 
for driving away Bengalis . There was a procession in which there were Congress 
members . The witness stated further that he was a Bengali and wanted that 
Bengali should be a spoken language in Assam . He also demanded the inclusion 
of Dhubri Sub - Division in West Bengal, 

102 . Abid Ali Sarcar a collecting member of the Union deposed that Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar spoke about ferry taxes , sales taxes , 
and about unpaid compensation for lands taken for the Bund . He did not 
remember what else was said . He was a member of the Chappar rural panchayat 
and was the President of the village Defence party . He is one of the riot sufferers . 
and got some advance . He remembers that the speakers assured that they would . 
obtain remission of the advances . 

103. Sudhir Kumar Bose ( O . P , No . 7 ) has been examined by the Opposite 
parties. He was a Zamindar and owned a large area of land with other members 
of his family . He deposed that he did not belong to any political party . He had 
a Saw Mill and was selling wood . He attended the Chappar meeting and deposed 
that Jahanuddin and not he presided over this meeting. He stated further that 
no appeal on religious or communal grounds was made. He admittedly was a 
friend and supporter of Jahanuddin Ahmed . He held meetings in order to oppose 
the Congress in regard to the manner of their contemplated abolition of 
Zamindaries . His brother - in - law contested the Bilashipara seat against the Con 
gress in 1952, 

104 . About meetings and propaganda alleged to have been made in paras . 10 ( 24 ) 
and 10 ( 25 ) , the learned counsel for the petitioner did not refer me to any evidence . 

105. Some 25 days before polling in L . A , Dhubri Constituency , a meeting is 
alleged to have been convened by P S . P . at Kachari Hat within the said Consti 
tuency . It was addressed by Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , Abul Fazl and 
Bibhuti Sarkar. They appealed to the voters to vote for the P . S . P . on communal 
lines according to the usual pattern stating that the Congress party and Congress 
Government were trying to Ilinduise all Muslims and were carrying on anti 
Islarnic activities , 

106 . Dr. B N . Nath ( P . W . 47 ) deposed that he was present at the meeting . 
Amjad Ali told the audience that if they voted for the Congress , they will have 
to cremate their dead .. A law had been passed to the same effect. Cow slaughter 
had been hanned . Ramdhun Geet was being sung , it was against Muslim religion . 
Ti is witness is a member of the Congress . 

107 Vikum Chand Jain ( P . W . 49 ) deposed that Congress wanted to interfere : 
with the religion of the Muslims hy prohibiting cow sacrifice , but that this had 
been avoided . The prohibition had not been enacted , but added that if there was 
no opposition , the danger to Islam would remain . Bibhuti Sarkar said that 
Congress had prohibited cow sacrifice and cow slaughter . The Government will 
enforcr crcniation of dead bodies by Muslims. According to this witness the 
meeting commenced at 6 - 30 pm , 

108. Yusuf Ali ( P . W . 50 ) is the 3rd witness of this series . According to him , 
Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , Abul Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar spoke about the 
banning of COW slaughter, contemplated stoppage of the burial of the dead , and 
the anti - Islamic effect of Handlun which was being sung in Schools. The meet 
ing arcording to this witness commenced at 3 p . m . 


2546 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 6, 1880 [PART II 


.. 


." 


- - 


- 


109. Suruj Mal ( P . W . 52 ) has made a very brief statement. Amjad Ali said 
that there was agitation about the prohibition of cow slaughter, but nothing had 
happened . He did not say anything more , Bibhuti Bhusan Sarkar said that if 
they voted for the Congress , they may have to cremate their dead . This witness 
is a brother of Vikamchand . 

110 . Jaifulla Seikh ( No . 3 ) and Khagendranath Nath Adhikari (No. 4 are 
the two witnesses for Amjad Ali. Both supported his version in a general way . 
Jaifulla did not remember what Jahanuddin Ahmed , Abul Fazl and Bibhuti 
Sarkar said . Khagendranath Nath also did not remember if anything else was 
said , besides Taxes , Tenant rights etc . He deposed that he had been a member 
of the Congress party for about eleven years . He said he paid Rs. 2 for active 
membership though the prescribed fee was Rs. 10 . 

111. On 23rd February 1957, a public meeting is alleged to have been convened 
by the P . S . P . in village Dharamsala within the LA , Dhubri constituency . The 
speakers were Amjad Ali, Abul Fazal and Bibhuti Şarkar. They said that Con 
gress Government had interfered with the religious rights of Muslims. 

112 . The petitioner s witnesses who deposed about the meeting are Dr. B . N . 
Nath . ( No, 47) , Mahendra Nath Sarkar (No. 48 ), Yusuf Ali ( No. 50 ), Darali No . 
(51 ), Giasuddin (No. 53 ) and Fazaruddin Sarkar (No. 54 ) . 

113 . Dr. Nath deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar, Amjad Ali and Abul Fazal repeated 
what they had said at Kachari Hat . He is a member of the Congress . Ho con 
tradicted his earlier statement on further cross - examination by stating that 
Bibhuti Sarkar was not present in the Dharamsala meeting. 

114 . Mahendra Nath Sarkar deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow sacrifice 
will be stopped by legislation , dead bodies of Muslims shall have to be burnt; 
Ramdhun Geet was anti - Islamic . Congress was trying to Hinduise all Muslims. 
Abul Fazal and Bibhuti Sarkar said the same. He could not state what points 
the Congress speakers made in their meeting at Dharamsala , Yusuf Ali ( No. 50 ) 
deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow slaughter had been banned ; burial of dead 
- would be stopped ; Ramdhun Geet was being sung . Dur Ali ( P . W . 51) supported 
the statement of the previous witnesses and admitted that Ramdhun Geet was 
being sung in his village schools. He states that Amjad Ali, Bibhuti Sarkar and 
Abul Fazl addressed the meeting . On further cross - examination this witness has 
stated that it would be against Shariat if Allah and Ram have been placed in the 
samc position in Ramdhun Geet. Giasuddin ( P . W . 53 ) also lent support to the 
petitioner s version about the meeting. Fazaruddin Sarkar ( No . 54 ) deposed that 
the speaker said that cow sacrifice had been banned and burial of the dead would 
be stopped . According to this witness Jahanuddin Ahmed did not address this 
meeting 

115 . Patru member ( R . W . 1 ) , member of the Rural panchayat and president 
of the meeting , has deposed that Amjad Ali did not say anything about cow 
slaughter or cow sacrifice. No one said that Islam was in danger . He denied 
that he belonged to P . S . P . 

116 . Wahed Ulla Bepari is the second witness in the series for Amjad Ali. He 
supports the petitioner s version of the meeting . 

117. My attention has been drawn to allegations in para , 10 ( 6 ) of this petition , 
It is averred that Amjad Ali and Bibhuti Sarkar held meetings between 17th 
February 1957 to 24th February 1957 at Nisiripur. It is argued that Bibhuti 
Sarkar could not be at Dhubri on the 23rd February . Amjad Ali has deposed 
that Bibhuti Sarkar was with him at Dharamsala on the 23rd February . 
Petitioner s witness — P . K . Chakravarty has deposed that Bibhuti Sarkar 
addressed a meeting at Fakiraganj on the 22nd or 23rd February . Mr Bosc has 
relied on this statement for showing that Bibhuti Sarkar was not at Dharamsala 
on the 23rd February . 

118 . I have not been referred to any evidence ahout the meeting alleged to 
have taken place at Golakganj by either side . 

119. On 15th December 1957, a meeting is alleged to have taken place at 
Moharichar in LA , Mankachar constituency . Amjad Ali dwelt upon the banning 
of cow slaughter, on the burial of the Muslim dead bodies , and talked about the 
compulsion in singing Ramdhun Geet and worship of Tulsi plant. 

120 , Abul Suban ( P .W . 6 ) deposed that Amjad Ali said that cow slaughter 
had been stopped and sacrifice of cow was permitted but with permission of the 
authorities . An Act was going to be passed which would stop burial of the 
Muslim dead . Ramdhun song un - Islamic in character , was being sung . He 
claimed to have stopped it. 


115. peteting, hasacrifice 


Suc . $ ( 11 )| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1938 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802547 


121 . The statement of P . W . 7 is useless . He did not attend the mecting . Hie 
knowledge is at best second -hand , and his testimony not direct, Dr. Mohammad 
Moksed Ali ( P . W . No . 8 ) deposed that Amjad Ali said among other things 
that singing of Ramdhun had been stopped as a result of his efforts ; and a bill 
aiming at a ban on burial of dead bodies of Muslims had been thrown out in 
consequence of efforts of opposition parties . The witness admitted that he was a 
member of the Congress , but his connection with it had ceased . 


122 , Mafizuddin Sarcar (No. 22 ) and Ainuddin Sheik supported Amjad Ali s 
version of the case about the meeting . 


123. Petitioner s witnesses namely ; Amad Ali Munshi ( No. 24 ), and Efazuddin 
( No. 25 ) deposed to hearing Jahanuddin Ahmed stating at Syed Ali s house that 
cow sacrifice had been prohibited and cows under 14 years of age could be 
slaughtered with previous permission of the authorities . If this continued , they 
could not remain Muslims. A Bill to stop Muslims from burying their dead was 
pending . Efazuddin deposed to the same effect. This incident is not alleged in 
the petition . Evidence about it is , therefore, being left out of consideration , 


124 . On 11th February 1957 , a meeting is said to have taken place in Bhaidhari 
Inspection Bunglow . This was convencd by the Secretary , Bhaidbari Co -operative 
Socioty under the instructions of the Co - operative Inspector of Phulbari Circle . 
It is averred that in this mecting , Shamsher Ali said that the Congress is trying to 
Hinduise Muslims. It has banned cow slaughter . Afazuddin Mandal who is 
alleged to have been a supporter of Amjad Ali, said that the Congress Govern 
ment had stopped cow slaughter which was incumbent on Muslims as part of 
their religion and that it would legislate to compel Muslims to burn their dead , 


125 . Tarifulla Dewani (No. 38 ) doposed that Alazuddin said that the Congress 
was responsible for burning Muslim houses and the abolition of burial of their 
dead . Shamsher Ali talked to the same effect. Makshedur Rahman said that 
Congress had stopped cow slaughter and burial of the dead by Muslims. Tafaulla 
(No. 40 ) doposed that Shamsher Ali said that the Congress will stop cow 
slaughter and burial of their dead . Ketu Sarkar (No. 41 ) deposed that both 
Afazuddin and Shanisher said that cow slaughter and burial of the dead were 
going to be stopped . 


126 . Dr. Rahat Ali (No. 18 ) and Asad Uddin Munshi are Amjad Ali s witnesses , 
Dr. Rehat Ali deposed that he was present at the mceting ; and except matters 
relating to co - operative society , nothing else was discussed . Shamsher Ali did 
not attend the meeting . Asaduddin deposed to the same cffect . 


127. Sarat Chandra Singha (No. 27 ) is a whole time Congress worker. IIc is 
the President of the Dhubri Congress Committee. He is also the Secretary of the 
Assam Pradesh Congress Election Committee and President of the District Con 
gress Election Committee . He himself was a Congress candidate from Gossain 
Gaon constituency . He deposed that as prcsident of the District Congress Com 
mittee, he came into contact with Congress workers in different localities . The 
P . S . P . propaganda, according to him , was that if the Congress won the elections , 
the Muslims shall not be allowed to sacrifice cows. They referred to the Cattle 
Preservation Act and preached that by reason of this Act, Muslims would not be 
able to exercise their religious rights . The Congress would stop the burial of 
dead bodies and it would make cremation compulsory . It was also stated that a 
bil ) to stop burial of the dead was introduced in the Parliament, but it could not 
be passed as a result of Amjad Ali s cfforts. The Congress , it was stated , intro 
duced the singing of Ramdhun Geet" in schools which was un - Islamic . The shift 
ing of Jumma prayers from Fridays to Sundays and the compulsory worship of 
" Tulsi were anticipated from the trends of the Congress policy . The witness alse 
referred to the exhibition of a partially burnt copy of the Holy Koran at Salmara 
and other places as also the exploitation of the Marishbari incident. The witness 
gave the names of persons from whom he received reports . He further deposed 
that he reported all this to Shri B . P . Chaliha ( now Chief Minister of Assam ) 
and also the publicity department of the Provincial Congress Committee. The 
publicity department in consequence issued a pamphlet to explain the significance 
of the Act. This pamphlet is Ex . P . 3 . He informed Sri Bishnuram Medhi, the 
then Chief Minister also about the reports he had received , 


128 . He denied that the Congress became unpopular with the Bengalis as a 
result of his participation in demonstrations against the demand for taking 
Goalpara District out the State of Assam and including it in West Bengal. 


- - 


- 


2548 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958, AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 P . II 
= - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

129. He did not receive any written reports , nor did he take down notes . The 
propaganda , he said , vas on such a large scale that no taking of notes was neces 
sary , jie did not personally attend any meeting . His cvidence is based on 
reports received . He discussed the situation with the Chief Minister , Shri R . 
Brahma, Shri M . M . Choudhury , Shri Debeswar Sarma and Jonab Fakharuddin 
Ali Ahmed . He could not give the details of the spceches made at any particular 
meeting or by any particular individual. He merely summed up the P . S . P . pro 
paganda that was carried on in a general way . He could not give the date of 
the pamphlet issued. He stated that it was for distribution where necessary . 


130. The pamphlet purports to be a reply to the distorted version of the Act 
passed by the Assam Government. Its object was to counter -act the false 
propaganda of interested communalists . It dealt with and explained the signi 
Licance and the purpose of the Act stating that communal groups had been trying 
to show by false propaganda amongst the simple Muslims that the Congress 
Government, by passing the Act, had interfered with or invaded Islamic religion . 
In the main , the pamphlet is an answer to this charge . 


131. Who would believe that the Congress organisation would issue and dis 
tribute a pamphlet, which lepeats the charge against it of abridging the religious. 
freedom of the Muslims and then try to meet it ? If propaganda on religious 
grounds was not carried on by reference to this Act, it is inconceivable that a 
pamphlet like this could have been issued . That this step was considered neces 
sary indicates in no uncertain manner that intensive propaganda on a large scale 
was being carried on with the Cattle Preservation Act as its basis and with a view 
to appealing to Muslim voters on grounds of religion , as an appeal in this forn ) 
was more likely to be attended to than merely criticism of the Congress Govern 
ment in relation to matters outside the domain of religion or in relation to its 
efforts in the region of economic reconstruction . 

132 . Respondent denied the knowledge of the distribution of the pamphlet , but 
his witness Wahetulla Bepari ( No . 2 ) talked to Umaruddin about this pamphlet . 
Kalimuddin ( R . W . 19 ) also stated that papers published by the Congress about 
this Act were shown by Umaruddin . It is difficult to believe that the pamphlct 
was not being utilised after its publication , 

133. Amjad Ali s written statement embodies & total denial of the meetings 
held and of the utterances of speakers alleged to have been inade in para , 10 of 
the petition . At the trial he admitted that on the 16th January , he addressed a 
mecting at Fakiraganj, on 17th January at Burkakali, on the 20th January at 
Jaleswar, on the 21st January at Chunari, on the 22nd at South Salmara , on the 
25th January at Gouripur, on the 1st February at Kuchri Hat, on the 14th 
February at Morichar, on the 17th February at Bengalipara , on the 22nd February 
at Gualachar, on the 23rd February at Dharamsala and on the 26th February al 
Bandiparachar. He deposed that he went to Gutipara on the 27th February 
when no meeting was held there . On the 3rd he held a meeting at chappar; on 
the 4th March at Lakhiganj. He denied that there was any meeting at Kadamtala . 
In regard to the two meetings alleged to have bern held at ( 1 ) on 27th February , 
1957 at Gutipara and 121 on the 15th February , 1957 at Kadamtola , Amjad Ali 
adhered to his denial in the written statement, 

134. Between the two versions tliere is difference of dates of about five meet 
ings only . These meetings were at South Salmara , Gaulichar, Marichar, Bengali 
para and Gouripur. No great importance attaches to the variations in dates . 
Both sides had no notes or memorandu about the dates of the meetings . There 
is no documentary evidence as to the dates of the meetings . Conflicting giatement 
may , therefore , well he expected . It is worthy of note that some public meetings 
at least were admitted to have heen held at places and on dates alleged in the 
petition , though no such disclosure was made by the respondent in his written 
statement, 

135 . He came into the witness box when all his witnesses had been examined . 
He did not open his case in the usual way . His statement to a very great extent 
is a repetition of the statements of his witnesses , who were examined in his 
presence on different dates. When he began to adduce evidence , it was pointed 
out that according to the usual practice, he himself should come into the witness 
box first. Jis counsel preferred to examine other witnesses before calling the 
respondent into the witness box . “ It is the duty of a party , who has certain facts 
within his personal knowledge to appear before the Court at a very farly stage 
of the case as a witness and to give evidence relating to these facts and submit 
himself to cross - examination by the other side " ( wide 1933 Lahore 243 - 244 ) . The 
rule so expressed was defied Amjad Ali deposed as to the nature of the pro 
paganda he carried on in his constituency and stated that his propaganda was 


(H ) 


GA , 


OF 


A : , v . 


29, VAGRAHAYANA 8, 


2549 


directed to showing the economic situation in the country as revealed in the 
Manifesto ( Ex . R . 5 ) . He and his supporters talked about unemployment, labour 
conditions, distribution of land , disparities of income and the P .SP. view of the 
five years plan , Local problems were also discussed . These included the link 
ing of the Garo Hills with the plains, the strengthening of the main system of the 
railways and the proposed bridge over the Brahinaputra between Jogighopa and 
Pancharatna , remission of loans to migrants , failure of the Assam Government to 
pay compensation to those whose lands had been taken away for the building of 
embankment, and non - interference with the rights of the tenants under the 
Goalpara Tenancy Act, 

136 . He conceded that the Cattle Preservation Act was discussed at meetings 
at Fakiraganj, Jaleswar, Chunari, South Salmara and Gowalichar, In all these 
meetings questions were asked about the Act and they were answered . The 
scope of the Act was explained correctly and no kind of religious or communal 
propaganda was carried on . Even this concession made at the trial did not find a 
place in the written statement. 

137 . Amjad Ali is an advocate of the Supreme Court. He was a Commissioner 
of the Goalpara Municipality for two terms. In 1937 he was a inember of the 
Goalpara Local Board . He was nominated to the Dacca University Court in the 
year 1939 and appointed its Fellow in 1943 on the recommendations of the late 
Sir Saiyed Md. Saddulla . He was elected to the Assam Legislative Assembly as 
an independent candidate . He remained its member from 1937 to 1945 . In 1939 
he joined the League. In 1950 he joined the Socialist Party . 

138 . Amjad Ali had made a long statement in connection with the documen 
tary evidence on record . His statement in relation to this evidence shall be 
considered when documentary cvidence bearing on different aspects of the 
controversy is considered , 

139. Evidence bearing on specific instances given by the parties and referred 
to by thcir learned counsel in argument has been summed up above. I have 
also carefully gone through the rest of the evidence which has any bearing on 
matters, in controversy . There is cvidence both documentary and circumstantial. 
I now procecd to consider the oral evidence in the light of available evidence , 
documntary and circumstantial under appropriate heads which are supplied by 
the alleged planks in the clection campaign of Amjad Ali. 

140 . From the evidence of the peitioner read as a whole , one fact emerges 
very conspicuously . Witnesses of the petitioner have consistently deposed that 
Amjad Ali and his supporters indulged in propaganda on religious and communal 
lines . They did not depose that the respondent s manifesto , or the programme 
or the principles of the P . S . P . werc rcfcrred to and Aiscussed . According to 
these witnesses, the speeches of the respondent and his supporters were limited 
to the denunciation of the Congress party and the Congress Government, only 
on religious and communal grounds . One looks in vain for any statement by 
petitioner s witnesses admitting that any speaker of the P . S . P . deviated into an 
effort to educate or inform the electorate as to what the P . S . P . stood for. It 
is somewhat surprising that speeches should have been confined invariably to 
religious or communal issues only . 

141. The respondent is in an even worse position in this respect. His 
witnesses have adhered to the pattern of the petitioner s witnesses . They have 
deposed that Amjad Ali s and his supporters approach to the electorate was 
exclusively based on matters other than religious or communal No appeals 
were made to voters on grounds of community or religion . Questions about thic 
Cattle Preservation Act we re just answered very accurately . There was no 
reference to any matter with religious or communal association , I regard this 
as even more surprising in view of some documentary evidence, which has been 
made available in this case , and to which reference will be made presently . 

142 . Both the parties have put their cases skyhigh . Oral evidence is directed 
to proving the respective cases set out in the pleadings. 

143. Oral cvidence in clection cases may well be received with abundant 
caution . Rival parties and organisations have their supporters . They are 
usually large in number . In large constituencies , the followers , supporters and 
adherents of parties would be in still larger numbers. Election petition is a 
continuation of the tontest at the polls . Witnesses from those who openly take 
sides cither from convictions or for other reasons can be easily produced to 
support cascs put forward by contesting parties . These witnesses even if honest 
and truthful may have unconscious bias. Several witnesses of the petitioner 
have admitted that they are nembers of the Congress , Amjad Ali stated that 


- 


2550 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA A , 1880 [Part II 
- 

-- - - - 
he had supporters and workers of his party . Their number was considerable . 
Oral evidence in this case amply illustrates the need for caution . The two versions 
go to two cxtremes to which it was possible to stretch them . It is difficult to 
believe either version in its entirety . 


144. Another obvious difficulty is that witnesses on either side made no notes 
of speeches . There were two or three speeches made at each meeting. The 
witnesses cannot be expected to reproduce from memory the words used by the 
speakers when dealing with even prominent topics of discussion , after about a 
year of the election campaign , when they came into the witness box . Accurate 
reproduction of speeches would depend on the attention given at the time of the 
speeches , interest in the matter discussed , powers of memory and competency of 
the witnesses to understand and express what is heard . These qualities would 
vary in persons constituting even an intelligent audience. Oral evidence of 
speeches , therefore , is to a great extent subject to mistakes which can occur by 
absence of proper comprehension of the speaker s meaning and also when the 
person reproducing has difficulties of retaining what is heard and then expressing 
it after a long time. A slight alteration in words even un - intentional may give 
a different meaning or colour to the utterance . In election cases little twists to 
what is said may cyen be looked for. In the circumstances a search for truth 
by a close examination of the oral evidence in the light of available documentary 
and circumstantial evidence is the only course for finding out what may in the 
circumstances of the case be regarded as proved beyond any reasonable doubt. 


145 . From petitioner s evidence it appears that the Cattle Preservation Act, 
1951, was exploited for persuading voters to believe that the Congress party 
was willſully interfering with the religious freedom and the rights of Muslims. 
The petitioner s witnesses have deposed to it, though the words 
they expressed themselves in were not exactly the same. Some 
witnesses stated with reference to Amjad Ali s speeches that all that he said 
was that though there were no restrictions on the slaughter of cows for sacrifice 
on Id days, permission for slaughter was necessary at all other times and cattle 
above 14 years of age could alone he slaughtered. A large number of witnesses 
said that Amjad Ali and his supporters asserted that cow slaughter and sacrifice 
had been stopped . Some said that if the Congress was voted to power, it 
would be stopped . It has been argued that petitioner s witnesses have given 
no less than three versions of the manner in which the Act was utiliscd . Some 
have said that a total ban had been imposed on cow scariſce and slaughter ; 
others deposed that the Act imposed restrictions on religious rights ; some also 
stated that cow sacrifice and slaughter would be banned . These differences 
appeared in the statements of pctitioner witnesses . It is possible that the 
speakers at the different meetings put their cases differently . It is also possible 
that witnesses when giving evidence have reproduced their own impressions of 
what was said . One thing , however, is fairly cvident. Petitioner s witnesses 
heve deposed that even when the restrictions contained in the Act were referred 
to , they were presented as restrictions on pre - existing religious rights , which 
stood reduced or abridged . The third version may merely mean that the 
provisions of the Act, which had been given cffect to , would be implemented 
and they would give rise to an effective ban on cow slaughter, and at least a 
partial ban on cow sacrifice. The gravamen of the charge is that the Act was 
fully utilised by Amjad Ali and his supporters for crcating A religious or 
communal bias amongst the Muslim voters against the Congress Government and 
the party . Frcquent references were made to the Holy Koran . Texts were read 
and explained . It was given out that cow sacrifice was enjoined by the Shariat 
and the religious freedom necessary for it had been taken away or was 90 
curtailed that virtually cow slaughter and sacrifice stood banned . The recitation 
of the Holy Koran and the reading of the texts in relation to the situation 
created by the Cattle Preservation Act could easily be understood as an appeal 
on grounds of religion and would in law amount to it. 


146 . Respondent Amjad Ali started with an out and out denial of all references 
to matters religious or communal. Some of his witnesses admitted that questions 
were asked and answered . The import of the Act was explained in meetings 
held at six places. Amjad Ali , who came into the witness box last of all had 
heard what the witnesses had said and himself conceded that the Act was 
discussed at the meetings held at Fakirganj, Jaleswar , Chunari, South Salmara , 
and Gaulachar. He deposed that in all these meetings questions were asked 
about it The questioners wanted to know by which legislature, this Act had 
been passed, its implications and the areas to which it applied . He told them 
that the Act had been passed by the State Legislature . Legislation on the same 
lines was attempted even at the Centre and the Prime Minister himself opposed 
it. It was put to a division and was lost. The Assam Act had been passed in 


Sec. 3 (ii) TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRATIAYANA 8 , 18802551 

= = = = = = = = - - - = = = 
1951. It was not given effect to till August, 1956 . He also explained the 
provisions of the Act stating that cows or buffalos above 14 years of age could 
be slaughtered with the permission of the Competent authority . He also told 
them that the Act did not apply to sacrifice on three days of Id - Uz - Zuha, and that 
its application was limited to the plain areas of Assam . 

147. Assuming that this was all that was said Amjad Ali brough out that 
the Parliament had thrown out a similar Act. The Prime Minister had opposed 
its passage. The Assam Legislature wlich passed it applied it to the plains, 
leaving the Hills areas out of its operation . The 3rd point which was made out 
was that barring three days of Id , when cow sacrifice was possible without let 
or hinderance , permission for slaughter of cow s was necessary , and this could 
be obtained only in the case of cows above 14 years of age. 

148 . It may be stated that what was conceded by Amjad Ali and his witnesses 
at the trial is not consistent with the total denial about references to the Act 
for purpose of election . Even in para , 34 of the written statement the fact 
that the Act came into picture as admitted in evidence on certain occasion was 
not mentioned . It appears that later it was felt that the extreme position 
taken up in the written statement was difficult to maintain . The statement of 
Amjad Ali brings out a modified version . 

149. The claim that llic Act was discussed involuntarily and only in answer 
to question cannot be reconciled with some important documentary evidence . 

150 . Ex. P ( 1 ) is a copy of a hand bill issucd by the P . S . P . announcing the 
Fakiraganj meeting held on 16th January , 1957. By this hand bill, people were 
informed that a huge gathering had been arranged for discussion as to how 
Tenancy Law will be altered after the abolition of Zamindary and for discussion 
on cow killing Law and various other subjects and to inform the general 
public about these laws . It was further stated that Amjad Ali will enlighten 
the people about his achievements . The hand bill was issued over the names 
of nine members of the P . S . P . Amjad Ali inspite of his plea of denial admitted 
having addressed this meeting . Discussion on cow killing law was a part of 
the Agenda . Other laws were also mentioned. The reference could possibly 
be to the Funera ] Reforms bill. These matters were to be discussed ii : coafor 
mity with the settled programme without any compulsion arising from questions. 

151. Ex . P ( 10 ) is another hand bill announcing the Chunari meeting. It also 
refers specifically to the law providing for protection of cattle . These notices 
we c placed on record by the petitioner . Ex , P . ( 1 ) , P ( 2 ) and P ( 10 ) were 
receiyod in evidence with the consent of Amjad Ali and their proof was 
dispensed with vide order dated 24th October, 1957. The conclusion that the 
contents of these hand bills point to is that the Act formed an important plank 
of the clection campaign of the P . S . P . candidates . 


152. There is Other documenlary evidence 00 This ( spect of the matter 
which also is noi easy to impeach . Umarud P . W . No. ( 3 - - is a prominent 
congr . ss man . On 31st Janua y , 1957 he addirt:ssed a letter ( Ex . P . 13 ) to 
Shiri B . R . Medhi the then Chief Minister of Assam (now Governor of Madras ) , 
intimating to him that the " Muslim P .SP . candidates had made the cow protec 
tion Act of 1949 or 1950 the spearhead of their attack against the Congress 
Government allcging in particular that the Act had been brought into force 
in August last only in plains districts of Assana after ertain independent 
Mislim M . L . As. joined the Congress and the general body of muslims were 
persracert ir do so , that the ciion of the Government is a direct encroachment 
on the religious rights of Muslims. In the rourse of this infectious and mis 
chievious propaganda by playing upon the It 7 statements of the Muslim , 
they are also giving a broad hint that stoppage T rial of Muslim dead bodies 
and the calling of Azan (call to prayer ) may collow suit nut in the distant 
future . As a result of such propaganda being gvylimatically carried out in the 
Muslim majority areas considerable dissffcrti ,n 1111 een created . I consider it , 
therefore , my duty to bring the matter to your listin in as well as to that of 
Mr. Chaliha ( Shri Bimola Prosad Chaliha the then President of the A . P . C . C . ) , 
and would urge upon steps to be taken to counter this pernicious propaganda 
before it is too late ” . 


153. Shri J . Hazarika , Principal Private Secretary to the Chief Minister was 
summoned to produce this letter as also a lettoril to have been addressed 
to the Chief Minister by Abdul Bari on 9th January , 1957. He stated that he 
had not been able to trace these letters. They had been received in Shri J . 
Barua s time. He was his predecessor in office . He testified that the Ex . P , 5 and 
EX , P . 7 were correct copies of the replies sent to Abdul Bari and Umaruddin . 


--- 


SHA 


2552 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958,AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART I 
= = = = = = 

= = = = = = = = = = = 
154. Ex , P . 7 is a copy of the letter sent in reply to Umaruddin s letters of 
31st January , 1957. The letter deals with the Cattle Preservation Act . It 
states briefly the purpose of the Legislation and gives the gist of the provisions 
of the Act . 

155 . It was put to Umaruddin ( P . W . No . 63 ) in cross - examination that the 
Chief Minister s letter does not refer to allegations about hinting by P . S . P . 
spokemen of the anticipated stoppage of burial of their dead bodies by Muslim 
and also of Azan . There is no express reference to these items in the Chief 
Minister s letter. But this omission is intelligible . The Cattle Preservation Act 
was a Government measure . The Chief Minister and his Government were 
responsible for it. They would when occasion arose explain their object and also the 
import of the Act. Umaruddin had asked for a copy of the Act and the rules 
if any . The vital provisions of the Act were explained to him . The other two 
items of the P . S . P . propaganda had no connection with any Act of the Assam 
Government. But the Chief Minister did assure Umaruddin that he would meet 
him on 8th February and would discuss matters as to how the success of the 
Congress candidate could be assured . Evidently other items were left for 
discussion at this meeting . In any case the omission by the Chief Minister to 
refer to these two matters brought out in Umaruddin s letter does not cast any 
doubt or suspicion on the accuracy of the contents of Ex , p . 13 . I have no 
hesitation in holding that it is a correct copy of the original which could not 
be traced . This document was placed on the record before it became known 
that the original could not be traced, 


156 . It is noteworthy that Umaruddin wrote to the Chief Minister as one in 
charge of the election campaign on behalf of the Congress in the entire Dhubri 
Sub -division which formed the major part of the parliamentary constituency 
with which we are concerned in this case. He was informed about the P . S . P . 
activities . He received reports from P . Choudhury, Nazmul Haque , Abdul Bari 
Sarcar and others that the P . S . P . were carrying on propaganda on religious lines , 
they were representing that the Assam Cattle Preservation Act of 1950 which 
had heen entorced a few months before was an encroachment on the religious 
rights of the Muslims. He had reports that it was being said that the Congress 
would stop burial of the dead by Muslims and also the call to pruyers. The 
letter is evidence of the fact that such reports were being received . Whatever 
the strength of the P . S . P , candidates , fabrication of evidence with the purpose 
of utilising it in court if congress candidates were defeated would be some 
thing extremely improbable . On the other hand the need to counteract such 
propaganda could arise from an impelling necessity . The head of the Govern 
ment and the provincial head of the Congress organisation - Shri B . P . Chalihu - - 
now Chicf Ministerwere both requested to take steps to counteract propaganda 
designed to split the cilizens into cominuna ) or religious compartments , 

157. Abdul Bari ( P . W . 32 ) also addressed Shri B . R . Medhi. He wrote to 
him on 9th January , 1957 – 7ide Ex . P . - 4 . He dealt with his difficulties . In 
para , 3 of his letter he wrote as follows: — " That Lalji ( Shri Prokatish Ch . 
Baruah ) of Gauripur has decided to stand in my constituency as an independent 
candidate and onc Azad Ali has also been selected hy the Socialist party . 
Jonab Amiad Ali, M . P . along with his small band of followers is poisoning the 
ears of the Muslim voters by saying that Congress of Assam has interfered with 
Tslam in stopping cow sacrifice and that to in the plains only . The cattle 
Preservation Act of 1951 and its implementation in August , 1956 is their main 
instrument of attack . Som practical guidance to the foot to mect their charge 
may promptly be made. And some All India Muslim Leader may be deputed 
to Dhubri 10 counteract this nefarious propaganda . 

158. As stated above the original of this has also not heen traced . The copy 
is admissible No doubts have been cast on its correctness. In the 2nd week 
of January Abdul Bari a congress candidate was asking for assistance from the 
Chief Minister to counteract propaganda based on a view of the Cattle Preser 
vation Act which it was apprehended may influence voters to a mass swing in 
favour of the P . S . P . 

159. Abdul Bari Sarkar ( P . W . No. 32 ) deposed in cross - examination that he 
was selected for a congress ticket in the middle of January . Before that he 
was canvassing for the Congress since January , 1956 . He found Muslims 
unaware of the Cattle Preservation Act until P . S . P . members including Amjad 
Ali began talking about it . He lcarnt in November , 1956 that the P . S . P . were 
planning to make this a plank in their clection campaign . He stated that he 
received no complaints from Muslims in general about this Act. He was 
confronted with Ex . R . 4 , a letter oddressed by him to Amjad Ali on 15th 
December , 1956 . In this letter Abdul Bari expressed himself as follows: - the 


Ac. 3 ( ii ) ] TIIĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/ AGRANIAYANA ), 1880 2553 
- - : - - - - - = = - - - 

- - - 
Muslim mind as you know is very much perturbed for the promulgation of the 
Cattle Preservation Act in the plain districts of Assam . 

* * * Kindly 
put it before the Parliament and get necessary orders passed for withdrawing 
The Act at least before the election . I hope you will do the needful early . 


160 . The statement in the letter at the first blush would seem to be inconsistent 
with Abdul Bari s statement in court . Iſ he had received no complaints from 
muslims in general, would it be correct or appropriate to say that the Muslim 
mind was very much perturbed , The Act was passed in 1950 . Effect was 
given to it in July 1956 almost on the cve of the clections. There is no evidence 
from the petitioner s side showing that the observance or compliance with the 
provisions of the Act was insisted on before the polling. There is no suggestion 
that the applications for permission to slaughter were made during this time 
or there were any prosecutions for unauthorised slaughter . It is possible that 
the Gazette notification about the enforcement of the Act had not become 
widely known till it had becoine a plank in the election campaign . It is also 
likely that till the middle of December Abdul Bari received no complaints about 
it from Muslims in general but he was not wholly wrong when he said that 
the Muslim mind was perturbed because of its promulgation . Abdul Bari when 
he said this must have meant the intelligentsia amongst the muslims. He 
himself was one of this class . He himself felt perturbed and was seeking 
assistance from a co - religionist though a political opponent for its withdrawal 
believing and hoping that the Act would be equally obnoxious to Amjad Ali. 
From the view point of elections Amjad Ali would be last person to assist Abdul 
Bari. Even if he had no intention of exploiting its provisions and even if he 
was as desirous as Abdul Bari of getting its withdrawal, his politically intelligent 
interest was not to lose the natural advantage which the Act gave him . It was 
a sort of a windfall for him . He could wait till the elections were over and 
then secl to obtain its repea ). As things then were Abdul Bari was unduly 
optimistic , Hc was placing a rather tall order on Amjad Ali. 


161. Amjad Ali has deposed that when questions were asked he explained 
the provisions of the Act correctly . He has expressed his opinion about it too . 
He said it was for the public good . He waw in it no interference with his 
religion . He said that he was not conversant with Koran Sharif. He had read 
parts of it in Bengali and English , He thought the Act was not objectionable in 
any way and was for the good of the public . He cxplained its significance to 
the people and they seemed to take it pracefully . He did not think discrimination 
betwech tlie Hill areas and plains as unjustified . The Act was un -exceptionable 
in his view . 

162. This statement does not ring true . It does not sound probable much less 
convincing. Amjad Ali wrote to the Government of Assam asking for information 
on the following points : 

( 1 ) Whether the Act had been put into effect ? 
( 2 ) Whethro iny rules had been framed under it? 
( 3 ) The extent of its application ? 
In answer he got a letter dated 19th November , 1956 from Shri G . Barua , 

Under Srcratury . He explained when giving evidence that he was 
curious to know if inspilc of the Prime Minister s assurance that 
he would ask the Chief Minister to desist from passing such Jaws, 
the Act in qucstion had been given effect to . TIC naturally was 

expecting that such a thing could not have happened . 
163. At another place in his cvidence Amjad Ali states that the Indian 
Cattle Preservation Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha by Seth Govinda Das was 
not opposed by him . The Prime Minister himself opposed it. JIC even offered 
to resign on the issue if it becoine necessary . He said that Seth Govinda Das 
was a congress man . He was responsible for the bill . It was a private bill. 
The fact that he was a member of the congress could easily lend itself to the 
View that some congress men even at the Centre were in favour of such 
legislation . Some people could be misled by suggestion or hints to that effect . 

164 . The bill in the Lok Sabha was opposed on the ground of the incompe 
tency of the Central Legislature to consider it. The preservation of Cattle was, 
it was urged , a State subject and the States alone could legislate on it. According 
to Amjad Ali the Prime Minister was opposed to such a measure even in the 
States . He said he would ask the Chief Ministers to desist from promulgating 
such laws. Evidently inspite of the declared sconomic purpose of the proposed 
legislation at the Centre , and of the Assam Act, the Prime Minister was un 
compromisingly opposed to it. But Amjad Ali thinks it is un - exceptionable . 


2554 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [ PART II 


S - - - 
Even Abdul Bari, a member of the Congress felt perturbed . He was a fitting 
representative of the Muslims intelligentsia and vainly hoped that Amjad Ali 
would support him in obtaining its repcal. 


165 . Shortly stated , the Act prohibits slaughter of cattle under 14 years of 
age. It provides for previous permission which is given if the condition laid 
down in the Act are satisficd. Permission could be given only if the cattle 
intended to be slaughtered is over 14 years of age and unfit by reason of disease 
for its normal activity . The limit about age etc ., and the need for permission 
are restrictions on the frecdom of slaughter which existed before the Act was 
given effect to . The Act exempts from its operation , slaughter of any cattle on 
the occasion of Id - Uz -Zuha. Section 13 further provides that the State Govern 
ment may by general or special order and subject to such conditions as it may 
think fit to imposc , exempt from the operation of this Act the slaughter of any 
cattle for any religious ceremonial, l esearch or any other purpose . The absolute 
exemption is only for three days of Id . During the short period the operation 
of the Act is suspended . For the rest of the year the right to slaughter cattle 
has been restricted . 


166 . Shri B . R . Medhi informed Umaruddin ( P . W . 7 ) that the preseryation 
of the Cattle which was the object of the Act was provided for on economic 
grounds. But it can t be gain - said that the measure is of a controversial nature. 
The opposition of the Prime Minister would presumably be on this basis . 
Despite economic advantages which surely will flow from restricted or regulated 
slaughter of cattle , other aspects of the legislation imposing restrictions have 
to be considered . The bill in the Lok Sabha was a private one. The Govern 
ment or the Congress organisation were not responsible for its introduction . 
The traditional revcrance of the Hindus for the cow takes even the form of 
worship with some people . The siaughter of cows is regarded as sacriligious , 
For the Muslim its sacrifice on certain occasions in general and at Id -Uz- Zuha 
in particular , is a meritorious Act . Whether cow sacrifice is cnjoined or not , 
there is no doubt that it has traditional and perhaps scriptural approval, so 
far as Muslims are concerned . These differences of outlook make the measure 
undeniably controversial. The question has religious and communal aspects , 
It is , therefore, not surprising that opinion on the expediency of the Legislation 
on this matter may be divided . If Muslim opinion looks upon attempts at 
legislation even though prompted by motives of cconomic advancement, with 
dislavour it would not be surprising to find Amjad Ali curious to know if the 
Act had been given ellect to in spite of Prime Minister s assurance on the floor 
of the House in the Lok Sabha to which he referred in his statement. His 
Te -action was natural. His curiosity was shared by his Muslim elcctors according 
to him . His statement in court that the Act was un -exceptionable must have 
been influenced by the provision contained in section 123 ( 3 ) of the Represen 
tation of the People Act, prohibiting appeals to voters on religious or communal 
grounds for voting or refraining to vote for a particular candidate . It is one 
thing to claim that Amjad Ali refrained from exploiting this fict as alleged for 
election purposes, it is a wholly different thing to say that the Act is un 
exccptionable from lile Muslim view point. It does not exempt cow sacrifice on 
occasions other than in Id - Jz - Zuha and places restrictions on slaughter which 
may appeal irksonic to those used to the exercise of this right. 


167. The first mreting of the clection campaign was addressed by Amjad Ali 
at Fakiraganj. The Act was discussed th - re. in bold letters it was announced 
that the cow killing 1 .: W would be ciscussed . There is a suppressed reference 
to other law s as wcil. But the Cuttle Preservation Act vias prominently 
mentioned . The hand will for the Chunari inecting also refers to it. The letters 
of Abdul Buri and Umaruddin. to the Chief Minister constitute a refutation of 
the position taken up by Amjad Ali. The Chief Minister and the President of 
the provincial Congress Committee were moved to counteract his propaganda , 
Reports were received from Assembly constituencies . A pamphlet was issued to 
explain the true significance of the Art and the Congress stand about it. 
Congress leaders like Jonab Fakharudilin Ali Ahmed and Shri Debeswar Sharma 
came to tell voters that the Act did not interfere with religious rights or 
obligations and that it had a purely secular purpose . All this became necessary 
because of a wide calculated any systematic appeal to the electorate to vote for 
the P . S . P . and against the congress candidate on the grounds of religion by 
reference to the provision of the Act by Amjad Ali and his supporters. It is 
thus evidence - both documentary and circumstancial— which lends support to 
the oral evidence about the utterances and the nature of propaganda at the 
meetings most of which had to be admitted at the evidence stage . 


BEC. $ (11)] THE CAZETTE OF INDIA :NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGR THAYANA 8, 18802555 
- - : -- --- = - - = - = = = -- -- = = = = - .- .= = - = = . = 

168 . The contention that petitioner s witnesses have given three versions 
about the Act. Which has been dealt with above. In substance the charge was 
that the Act was freely and extensively utilised by Anijad Ali and his supporters 
for creating a religious and coinmunal bias against the Congress has been and this 
has been fully substantiated . 

169. The 2nd plank of Amjad Ali s campaign was that the Congress Govern 
ment would stop burial of the dead by Muslims and cnforce crenation . A hill 
known as the Funcral Reforms Bill was introduced in the Parliament in 1954 . 
A copy of this bill has been filed by Amjad Ali. He has also put in a copy of 
an issue of the Comrade dated 151h September , 1956 . In this issue there was 
an article under the caption Funeral Reforms Bill causing anxiety amongst the 
religious minorities . He did not refer to these documents in his own statement 
nor did he examine any witness about them . He was asked in cross - examination 
why or for what purpose he had product d these documents . In regard to the 
copy of the hill he said that he had produced it to show that it was a closed affair 
as the bill had been thrown out long ago . Now a copy of the bill does not 
show that the Bill had been thrown out. It may be utilised for showing what 
the hill was about. It would have to be proved otherwise than by the copy of 
the bill that the bill had been huried . The statement of Amjad Ali on this 
point, therefore , does not carry conviction . The purpose of a filing a copy of 
the hill probably was to SHw what the hill was intended or calculated to 
achieve , ihe provisions cantained in the bill would show that prohibition of 
the burial of the dead was the objective. 


170 . The bill enibodied an absolute prohibition against burial. It was not 
directed against Muslinis alone. All communities with whom burial of the dead 
was customary , would have hnen affected if it had become law . Muslims were 
the largest single ininority which would have been affected , 

171. Amjad Ali has deposed that hurial of the cicad bodies is enjoined by 
Islam . Cremation would be un - Islamic , A Hindu member was responsible for 
introducing the Bill. 

172 . If there was no reference to this bill in the course of clection campaign 
and it it was not utilised lor attributing to the Congress party or Government 
a communal or religious bias in favour of cremation wliich could lead it to 
legisite for cnforcing cremation , it would be pointless fur mjad Ali to produce 
the Comode issue cf 15th September and the bill. On the other hand if 
references were face in this attempt to stop burini by legislation , the bill and 
the comments on it in the Comrade could be utilised for providing justification 
for what was said . 


173 . It has been deposed by a large number of petitioner s witnesses that the 
campaign oť Amjad Ali was directed to showing that Islam was in da:iger if 
the Congress continued on in power . This attempt by a Hindu member to 
introduce crenatio . by legislation could easily lit into the scheme for a 
Systematic appeal to votues on crounds of religious by a little twisting of 
facts. Umaruddin s Jetter ( Ex . P6 ) dairil 21st January , 1957 brings out the fact 
that a broad hint was being throin to voters íhat the stoppayo ni burial of 
Muslim dead bodies would follow the prohibitions of the Assam Act in no 
distant Illvire, I regard i 83 rxtremely improbable that this statement should 
be increv a fgrient oi Umaruridin s imagination . On 21st January , 1957 toere 
was no ner for inventin , such false charges . I rudence also would dictate 
against suh & courie, 17 il 11111itel Ali and his supporters were not utilising 
the bill for their carnpeign all fort to niert something which was not pre , ented 
to the voters would have added to the dificulties of the Congress var. 11.lates , 
Unearthing an old dead hill and then disclaiming responsibility for it was an 
uzwisc course. Uinaruddin considering his education , age , and experiences 
could not be regarded as capable of such a mistaken course . 


1774 . Ramdhun Gert - in regard to the 3rd plank of the campaign , the 
Ramdhun Gect - -Arnjad Ali stoter that he had correspondence with some people 
of South Salınarama predominently Muslim constituency . He had asked for the 
text of the song from them . Ilaying does this he wrote to Shri Omeo To ir 
Das thic then Education Minister . Ile forwarded with his letter the communi 
cation which he had received from some persons of South Salmara who were 
objecting to the singing of this song in schools . The Education Minister wrote 
back on 14th November assuring him that he would discuss this matter with his 
officers, After necessary enquiries he wrote to Amjad Ali again sending him a 
letter of Shri U . Ali, B . L ., B . T ., Dist. Inspector of Schools , dated 18th 
November , 1956 . He was informed that there were no orders from the Education 


2 556THE GILTTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958, AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 

- - - - - - -- - - - - - --- - - - = = -- -- - - - - - - - - - - 
Department for singing or reciting this song. There was no compulsion about 
it. The letter of the Dist . Inspector shows that the song was being sung though 
voluntarily . These letters were placed on the record by Amjad Ali. Three 
witnesses of the petitioner namely ; Abdul Samad Choudhury -- ( P . W . 13 ), Abdul 
Kalam Azad ( P . W . 49 ) and Panchananda Nath ( P . W . 46 ) also admitted that the 
song was being sung in some schools . 

175. The # vidence of the petitioner is that this Gect was characterised as un 
Islamic . " Jobi Allah So hi Ram " was said to be something Sh ( religious as it 
placed Allah on a level with Ram . 


176 . We have it from Anijad Ali that some Muslims in South Salmara were 
objecting to singing of this song. They approached him for moying the 
authorities for redress . IIe did so and obtained and assurance that there was 
no compulsion about it. But the fact that it was being sung remained . " Johi 
Allah So hi Kam " is a mutilated version of a verse of the song. Apart from the 
word Allah the song is in Hindi, and even if it was not given out that there 
was any compuslion about it the fact that it was being sung could serve as a 
basis for attributing to Congress a bias in favour of Ilindu culture or religion . 
The song in substance may be a prayer to God and yet their liay not be many 
Muslim who may like to pray to God in the words which would be strange 
to them . But whatever the meaning or import of the song it would come in 
handy for supporting a charge that the Congress was llinduising Muslims or 
that it was imposing the Hindu way of worship upon them . 


177. South Sailmara L . A . Constituency is a predominently Muslim area , 
There were objecters there . If appeal on religious grounds was decided on , I 
sec nothing iinprobable in the statemrnt that the sung was characterised as un 
Islamic and hints or suggestion about its compulsory character where thrown by 
sone speakers at soine meetings. 

178. The Marishbari incident is the fourth ground on which according to the 
petitioner religious fcclings weic sought to be roused . Ex . R . 2 put in by Amjad 
Ali embodies Abdul Bari s ( P . W . 32 ) Version of the incident. He said in the 
letter that on 12th February at about noon raidci s niinbering 5 / 6 huidird 
composed of Hindus and Tribal nion with deadly weapons entered into the area 
tvhere the Muslims were living with lanuilies in their homes and burz. euch and 
every houst: and looted their properties and drove them away from that arra 
and in their such action it is reported that two were killed and many injured , 
including vorrien some of whom are in a precarious condition . Copies of this 
Intter was sent to the Prime Minister of India , Chief Minister of Assini, and the 
Chief Secretary . A copy was also scult to Amjad Ali. 

179 . Ex . R . 3 is another lctter ficm bdul Bari Sarwar to Amiad Ali dealing 
with measures for relief work taken by the 20thorities . He also conveyed his 
thanks to Amjad Ali for the work he had done for the Marishbari yulerers . 

180 . Petitioner s casc is that Anijad Ali and his supporters represented to 
voters that this was a communal affair . Hindus al Congress instigation burnt 
Muslim houses . A copy of the Holy Koran was also burnt. It was shown at 
some meetings. A property dispute between two groups was given a communal 
complexion for election purposes, 

181. Musliin houses were burnt. Hindus and Tribals were charged for this 
horrible case of arson on a large scale . If so many houses were burnt it is 
possible a ropy of the Holy Koran may have been hurnt partially . This aflair 
also lords itsell for use as showing that the Congress regime made it possible 
for Hindus to burn Muslim houses . Mulims and their properties were not safe 
therefore, in Congress regime. 

182 , Abdul Bari in Ex. R . 2 wound up his letter by saying that the unfortunate 
incident has created a great panic amongst the Muslims. He expressed the hope 
that Government will take proper und suitable steps to allay this panic . 

133 Amjad Ali himsclf produced Abdul Bari s letter . When cross - examined 
about it he said that he had been to Marishbari reserve. Some houses were 
burnt. This was due to conflicting claims to land . The land vested in the 
court of wards. This was set part for settlement to people under schemes 
approved by the Government. He did not know if occupation of lands in the 
Reserve was legal or illegal. He went to see if relief could be given to the 
sufferers from arson . He took up the matter with the Chief Minister of Assam 
who wrote to him on 3rd August. He himself Aled the D . O . along with other 
documents in this case . He stated thoi he did not tell the electors what he did in 
this matter, though he had conveyed it to some persons before the election , He 


- - - 


- 


SEC 3 ( ii )] TIIE GAZETTE OR INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / ACRAHAYANA 8, 18802557 

- - - - - - - - - - 
denied that he told the witnesses that the Marishbari urson was an act of 
communal violence and that the Hindus with the encouragement from the 
Congress had burnt the houses of Muslims. 

184 , Amjad Ali on his own showing had been to Marishbari to see that 
sufferers got relief. He could justiſlably refcr to his work in this respect. He 
could not resist producing documentary cvidence of it in this case . Would he 
not have referred to it when carrying his election campaign ? Presuinably the 
letters produced were intended to serve as a justification for what was said 
about this incident and later possibly apprehending legal difficulties a different 
course was adopted . 

185 . Marishbari does not lie in Amjad Ali s constituency . Jahanuddin has 
been represented as the onc whose references to this incident including the 
display of the purtially burnt copy of the Holy Koran were persistent and 
-emphatic . When an incident like this is woven into the texture of a seductive 
appeal oil religious grounds it would easily assume a communal complexion . 
Here the allegations are that, it was wilfully and in express terms represented 
as an outburst of communal frenzy instigated encouraged or connived at by the 
Congress , Even making full allowance for any exaggeration tliat may have 
crept into the petitioners presentation of the case of the incident could easily form 
a Jink in the chain of matters utilised for appcals on religious and communal 
grounds . 

186 . The apprehension of the Congress Government bunning Azan though 
rcferred to in Umaruddin s letter to the Chief Minister has becn mentioned only 
by a few witnesses . The evidence hearing on this point does not appear to be 
adequate for a Anding that this fear of Azan being stopped was an important 
part of the appeal on grounds of religion , though some references may have been 
made to this possibility . 

187. In regard to the possible shifting of Jumma prayers from Fridays to 
Sundays and the allegations about coinpulsory worship of Tulsi plant in South 
Salniara schools , the evidence falls l ar short of the standard . Stray or casual 
cemarks may have been made at places by some of Amjad Ali s supporters but 
I found it difficult to hold that these two inatters formed noteworthy planks or 
foundations for tlie systcinaiical appeal oni religious or communal grounds. 

188 . Documentary and circumstantial evidente discussed above provides ainple 
justification for i finding that the Cattle Proxrvation Act, the Funeral Reforms 
Lill, the liamdhun Goat and the Mansibari muident were matters which were 
ciscussel ul meetings of the PSP , which Amjad Ali and his supporters attended , 
They were the iinportant points in ihr propaganda programine. They provided 
attractive grounds vor a systematic apical tu voters on grounds of religion . The 
denunciation of the Congress TS 0 !) grounds of an alleged religion or coinmunal 
basis , and support ful the viej wyals derived from the four main planks of the 
Clection campaign , Oral evidovre of the petitioner s witnesses to the effect that 
calculated persistent and Sysirmatic citort w25 directed to showing the voters 
that in the Congress regime Musln religioll was not safe receives ample support 
Irom it . It is fully proved that Anijad Ali and his supporters represented at 
their meatings that intert - prince with Muslim religion hurl occurred and it was 
likely to be repeated in different forms. The Congress was out to Hinduise 
Muslim and thus banish , Islam and Islamic culture from the country. A Muslim 
on Congress ticket ( the petitioner ) was being painted as useless so far as the 
protection of the religious freedom and culture was concerned . All four matters 
mentioned above were fully exploited in support of time view that Islam would 
De in danger if the Congress was voted back to power . I entertain no doubts 
that Ainjad Ali and his supporters who admittedly addressed so many mt:ttings 
at diffcrent places and on different dates made systematic appeals to voters on 
religious and communal grounds. I regard this matter is proved beyond any 
reasonable doubt. I shall deal with the cases of the supporters of Amjad Ali 
under issue No . 5 . 


189 . But this is all that may be regarded as proved . So far . oral cvidence 
has supported from evidenccs which could not be fabricated and which is not 
easily impeachable . But oral evidence goes further than that, Some witnesses 
of the petitioner who dcposed from personal knowledge about meetings in their 
villages or in their neighbourhood tried to state what each speaker said . 
Some others gave the gist of one speech and said that others followed suit . All 
witnesses of one meeting have not been able to give identical versions. In all 
cases evidence of specific instances at the trial was not identical or 
in complete harmony with the allegations in the petition . This is not at all 
surprising . Petitioner s witnesses may be literate , most of them are very few 


SZ 


- 


- 


- - 


2558THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958, ACRAHAYANA 8, 1880 (PART ID 

= 
of them who attended the P . S . P . mcetings could be regarded as educated . They 
are not used to listening to long speeches on matters political and economic , 
They could be expected reasonably only to convey, the impressions they formed . 
of what they had heard . No one kept any notes. Even the petitioner did not. 
send any written report to any one higher up in the Congress herarchy. The 
reports of Shri S , Singha also were oral. The statement of Shri Singha would 
show that the reports he received or made did not bring out what was said by 
different speakers at a particular meeting. They were reports pointing to the 
propaganda and the material that was utilised for it, 

190 , The witnesses came to make their statements about what they have 
had heard about a year after the vections. After this lapse of time it would 
not be possible for them to say what words were used by any speaker at any 
particular meeting . 

191. I do noi think it safe lo base any finding on oral evidence alone as to 
what ench speaker saill at the mcetings though oral testimony taken as a whole 
when scen with or in the light of documentary cvidence carried conviction that 
the speakers , Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, Bibhuti Sarkur - whatever else 
they may have said , joined in making it almost all the meetings fervent, eloquent 
and impassioned appeals to voters on religious and cominunal grounds to yote 
against Congress candidates including the petitioner and to vote for P . S . P . 
candidates including Amjad Ali, Spcakers ocher than Amjad Ali were contri 
buting to tlie general appeal in furtherance of Anijad Ali prospects at the 
election . All speakcrs at least the threc speakers named above, made use of one 
or more of the basic planks of the campaign for appeals on religious or communal 
grounds when they addressed the vulers at different places. 

192 . Since the evidence seen as a whole leaves no room for doubt that there 
were app als in the name of religion and they were systematic in the sense that 
all grounds of attack on the Congress organisation which carried religious appcal. 
were fully exploited at all the meetings, I feel nu hesitation in recording the find 
ings that Amjad Ali has been guilty of the corrupt practice detined in section 
123 ( 3 ) . The himsell and his supporters with his knowledge and consent systema 
tically appealed to voters un communal and religious grounds in furtherance of 
his election prospects. Amjad Ali s evidence even when reinforced by evidence 
led by Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar fails to rebut the charge . It has 
no valuable circumstantial support. It is mainly oral and its value and effect , 
if any , is considerably impaired by documentary evidence produced by Amjad 
All himself . 

193 It has been contended by Shri N , C , Chatterjee on the strength of 3 . 
EL .R . 248 ( M . B . Harris v B . P . Digol) that the words on ground of religion 
in scetion 133 ( 3 ) should not be given the very wlde meaning which they were 
capable of bearing , the section should be read so as to conform to the pro 
visions rontained in the chapter on fundamental rights and to the right to 
religious frecdem guaranteed by the constitution . He urges that on recognised . 
principles construction it is open to the Courts to read the word only in the 
section in or er uw give eltert to the legislative intent and purpose . 

194 . Waida J pas considering the iniport of section 124 ( 5 ) of the Represen 
tation of People Act , 1951 in is , E .LR . 248. The language of 123 ( 3 ) of the 
Amended act is the same as ciat of 13415 ) . The words used are the same. The 
amendment has inerely the eilcct of making the corrupt practile defined in 124 ( 5 ) 
as a major corrunt practices uuder 123 ( 3 ). The words systematic appeal to vote 
for or refrain from voting on grounds of custe , community or religion were inter 
preted in :) , E .LR. 248 . 


193. I have carefully considered the process of reasoning the lcarned Judge 
(Wadia J ) employeri. He noticed that the language employed iſ given its plain 
meaning would furbid all references to religion for furthering prosperts at an 
election , but observed that it should be so construed that it may not be obnoxious 
to any provision of the Constitution . This may be possible where the languago 
of the Statute is not clear or ungmbiguous or where it is capable of two interpre 
tations. In such cases the interpretation that gives effect to the expressed Inten 
tion of the legislature and also saves it from being hit by any mandate of the 
constitution inay be placed on it . A narrower meaning may in such circum 
stances Le legitimately given to it. 

196 . In this case the language creates no dilculties of interpretation . It . 
forbids appeals to voters on grounds of caste, community or religion etc., for 
furthering prospects at elections. Appeals on these grounds can take a large 


Sec . 8 (11) GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802559 

= = = = 
variety of forms. They may be made by words spoken or written , by visible 
representations by use of symbols , insinuations suppressed suggestions, sarcasm 
and by necessary implications of utterances or writings. Comment or criticism 
un grounds of religion would be another method . The scope of the section is 
.no doubt very wide and this may not be restricted by reading the word only 
in the section which the legislature did not think fit to place there . Reading 
the word in the section would stretch the process of interpretation the function 
of the judiciary to legislation which is completely out of its province. If words 
bear two meanings, one may be preferred which its in with the context 
advances legislature purpose and saves the Act or the provision in question from 
being hit by any provision in the constitution . When ordinary meaning of the 
words is clear when they can bear only one meaning that meaning must be given 
even if the law is hit by the constitution and has to be declared ultra - vires . 


197 . It seems to me that the section interpreted in its widest sense expresses 
the purpose of the legislature and the object which it was intended to serve . 
The object is in consonance with the spirit of the Constitution India is a secular 
State . Separate and communal electorates do not exist . The communities have 
no separate representation oil religious grounds. If appeals on grounds of religion 
casto , race and community had been perrnitted even along with other planks of 
election campaign considerations of religion and community inay and at some 
piaces will result in the election of people with communal or sectorian out - look . 
The evil sought to bc remcdied would persist. In the legislaturę we may then 
look for candidates returned on religious or communal grounds and not on political 
or economic considerations. The electorate and the legislature inay be divided 
into religious and communal compartments . The body politic may be infected 
again with communal virus. The purpose of section 123 ( 3 ) was to exclude 
appeals on grounds of community , religion ctc ., with or without other planks in 
election campaigns. The language of section as it stands is suited to the achiev 
ment of the purposc in view , 


1998 , l1 tlie provision is obnoxious to any provision of the Constitution , it should 
be declared void and un - constitutional. Even the principle that all words if they 
be general and 110t express are to be restricted to the fitness of the matter would 
not afford any justification for reading the word only in the section . With great 
respect to the learned Judge , I think that whittliny down the ordinary and plain 
meaning of words by reading the word only in the section is not the appropriate 
course . The interpretation should not where the lunguage is clear be influenced 
by extraneous considerations such as the policy or the intention of the law or the 
reference to or the anology of other enarments - 1944 Lahore 280 AIR . (FB ) 
Sardar Singh y Relu & others: The courts have to find out what the legislature 
mcant but what it hus said that it meant and no modification of the language to 
meet that intention can be made - New Piel s goods v Cominissioner I. T . A . 1950 
S . C . 165 . Even when there is casus omissus 11. Is for the legislature and not for 
the courts to remedy the defect — 1953 S . C . 148 - 150 A . I. R . 


199 . In 6 . ELR. 316 (Sardul Singh Cuvcestiar v llukam Singh and others) it 
was held that the scope of section 124 ( 5 ) of llie Koprescutation of the People Act 
1951 [ now 123 ( 3 ) ] which makes systematic appeal to vote or refrain from voting 
02 grounds of caste , race , community or religion a corrupt cannot be narrowed 
down to a prohibition of attacks on a particular religion or on a candidate only 
on the ground that he is a follower of a particular religion , I agree with this view , 


200 . The constitutional validy of the provision in question was challenged in 
10 . E . 1 . 

Rp 120 ( Jamuna Parsad Mukhariya and others v Lachhi Ram and Others ) 
by Mr. Chatterjee himself . It was contended that it abridged freedom guaranteed 
to the citizen by Art . 19 ( 1 ) ( a ) . The appeal in that casc was found to have been 
un grounds of caste , The contention of Mr. Chatterjce did not prevail. Their 
Lordships observed as follows:- - " there is nothing in this contention . These laws 
do not stop a man from speaking . They marcly prescribe conditions which must 
be observed if he wants to enter Parliament. The right to stand as a candidate 
and contest an election is not a common law right. It is a special right created 
by the statute and can only be exercised on the conditions laid down by the statute . 
The Fundamental Rights Chapter has no bearing on a right like this created by 
statute . The appellants have no fundamental right to be elected members of 
parliament. If they want that, they must observe the rules . If they prefer to 
exercise their right of free speech outside these rules, the impugned sections do 
not stop them , We hold that these sections are intra vires " . 


A . 
2560 

29 , 

8 , 
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 

- -- - - - - - - 
201 Section 123 ( 3 ) thus being undisputedly valid constitutionally , there is no 
reason why its word should not bear their ordinary meaning. There is no justi - , 
fication for restricting their import. The legislature had the power to curtail 
freedom of speech in relation to the exercise of the right to stand as a candiclate : 
for election , 

202 . In 6 , E LR , 316 , the riyal candidates were Sikhs. The sucressful candi 
date was on congress ticket. In this case the Congress was rcfcrred to as interfer 
ing with Sikh religion . It was observed in this case as follows: 


" In the above mentioned passages interference of the Congress with Şikb 

religion is assumed and the necessity of avoiding that interference 
is made a plank for asking the voters to refrain from voting for the 
congress candidate . It is true that in this particular case the 
Congress candidate happens to be of the same religion , but in view 
of the congress policy as interpreted in these papers even a Sikh , 
Congress candidate cannot be a defender of their faith and therefore, 
the Sikhs must voto an Akali purty Sikh into the legislature , This 
in our view clearly implies an appeal to vote for the Akali party 
candidate on the ground of his religion because in view ot the inter 
ference of tlie congress with that religion a congress ( andidate must 
be ruled out. Such a propaganda done on the eve of elections should 
necessarily imply an appeal to vote or refrain from voling ven if 
in every case there is no express appeal made to the voters about 

casting votes" , 
203 . I am in full agreement with the vicw which prevailed in this case , and 
I entertain no doubt that systematic appeal made to voters as found above 
amounts to a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) . The appeal was extensive. 
The respondent and his supporters created an atmosphere surcharged with com 
munal bias. 

204 . Mr. Bose , the learned counsel for the Opposite parties has relied on thc 
judgment of Mr. B . C . Barua in Bazlul Basit v . Sahadat Ali. I have carefully 
gone through this judgment. I have found it extremely dificult to subscribe to 
the view which prevailed in this case . Shri B . C . Barua noticed that the view 
of the Bombay Tribunal (Wadia s ) that the wider interpretation could not be put 
on old section 124 ( 5 ) of the Act because of its repugnancy to the fundamental 
right of frcedom ot specch , stoud overruled . He, however , proceeded to observe 
that he was in respectful agreement with the main principle formulated in that 
case , namely that in enacting that section the Parliament only ained at preventing 
the mischicſ of voting for or against a candidate only because of his religio !), 
caste , race or community and that a restricted interpretation should be put on 
the unduly wide ternis of the sertion , in consonanen with the directive provisions 
of the Constitution as embodied in Art 15 , 161 , 23 , 29 , 325 of the Constitution . 


205. The principle referre :t to hy Mr. Barua has been reproduced in judgment 
of Wadia J . In the words of Wadia J It was as follows: — " The object of section 
124 ( 5 ) of the Representation of the People Act was to introduce the principles of 
the non - discrimination between different castes , cominunities and religions which 
was comprehensively laid down by the Constituiion of India and the said clause 
has merely carried into elect in the sphere of the law of elections the provisions 
of Art. 15 , 16 , 23 , 29 , 325 of the Constitution of Turlia llie inisihicſ which section 
124 ( 5 ) aims at preventing was the voting for or against a candidate only 
because of his religion , Faste , race or community and that being the real object 
of the section we must put a restrictive interpretation upon the unduly wide 
terms of section 124 ( 5 ) " . 


206 . The learned Judge put a restricted interpretation on the induly wide 
terms of sertion 124 ( 5 ) in order that it should give clect to the object of section 
124 ( 5 ) of the Representatiun of the People Art, The process by which he ascer 
tained the object of the sertlon 124 ( 5 ) is clear froin his judgment. He beg an by 
Interpreting the section with these remarks — - Scolion 1 91 (51 has to be construed 
not by itself but in the light of the constitution and the intention of Its framers . 
It is therefore necessary lo construe the provisions of th Rooresentation of the 
People Art in such a inunner as to hring them into hermunny viih the intention of 
the framers of the constitution especially with regard to the fundamental rights . 
provided for by Part II ]. The conclusion was stated at p . 276 is in the following : 
terms: - "When we examine section 124 ( 5 ) of the Representation of the People Act 
in the light of these provisions of the Constitution of India we are, we think , 
Justified in assuming that the object of section 124 ( 5 ) of the Representation oť 


A 


. 


8 , 


-- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


the People Act was to introduce into it this principle of non -discrimination bet 
ween different castes , communities and religions which was emphatically laid down 
in the constitution of India . Section 124 ( 5 ) has merely carried into eilcct in the 
sphere of the law of elections the provision of Art. 15 , 16 , 29 , and 325 ot the 
Constitution of India . The mischief which scction 124 ( 5 ) was aimed at preventing 
was the voting for or against a candidate only because of his religion , caste , race 
Gr ( inmunity and if that was as we apprehend it was, the real ubject of the 
section , we must put a respective interpretation upon the unduly wirlc terms 
of section 124 ( 5 ), " lle thought that the legislature could not have gone beyoni 
or against the provision contained in the Constitution . He could not attribute 
to them any intention of abridging freedum guaranteed to the citizen us this 
would have been a violation of the provisions contained in the constitution . This 
was the only basis on which he reached his conclusion as to the object of section 
124 ( 5 ) . This object has not been expressed by the legislature in the Alt , or the 
preamble . The statement of objects and reason has provided no guidance . 
Having thus ascertained the object he felt justified in reading the word only in 
the section for without it a narrow meaning could not be given to the Section . 

207. With profound respect to the learnert Judge I am not persuaded to hold 
that it is open to a Court to discover the intention of the Legislature in enacting 
a provision by reference to the provisions of the Constitution of India . Legis 
latures have without intending it, exccoded their powers . Laws have been fram 
ed which sometime oland against the mandates of the Constitution . In such 
cases the courts can not validate laws by rcading something into the provisions 
contained in a statute which is not there . The impugncd law has to be adjudged 
ultra vires . 

208 . In the absence of any other relevant material, the object of provisions in 
the statute can be ascertained only by giving ordinary meaning to the woris used . 
The function of the court is not to ascertain what the legislature intended to enact 
or meant but what it said that it meant. There is no justification for inserting 
words to give effect to intention not expressed by the legislature . 

209 . If there was any justification for the process of reasoning employed it 
has been taken away by the decision of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 
10 , E .L . R . 120 . The ratio of the decision of Wadia J has become obsolete . Its 
principle which is not distinguishable from its ratio also does not lcar Scrutiny 
now . 

210 . Whilst merely emotional or controversial issues may be raised at plections 
an election may not be fought on appeals to voters on grounds of caste , communi 
ty or religion . It a religious minority feels that the freedom of religious practice 
guaranteed to it has been curtailed by legislation or an executive act it may 
utilise its freedom of speech at all times for ventilating Its grievances and for 
obtaining redress . Individuals , who are not candidates at an election may also 
give expression to their views. Even agents and supporters of candidate may do 
so but not with the consent of the candidates . The prohibition enacted by the 
sec. 123 ( 3 ) is extremely Ilmited . It forbids appeals on grounds of caste , 
community or religion by the candidate , his agents and supporters with his 
consent for the l urtherance of his election prospects . The clear and emphatic 
pronouncement of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 10 , E . L . R . concedes 
to the legislature the competency to limit the freedom of speech in the conduct of 
flection campaigns. When considering whether the provision ill question [ sec . 
124 ( 5 ) was ultra pires , the wide meaning thut its words hear was assumed and 
taken into consideration . Despite curtailment of the freedom of speech guaran 
teed by Art . 19 ( 1 ) ( a ) for the candidate in the matter of election , the inpugned 
provision was found valid on the ground that any conflict that it involved with 
the provision in the Constitution would not make it invalid as the right to stand 
in an election is a crcature of the legislature and it can be hedged in by restric 
tions which may whittle down somewhat the freedom of speech for furthering 
election prospects . Section 123 ( 3 ) docs not prevent even a candidate from 
expressing his views if he feels that his religious freedom has been abridged by 
legislation or an executive act provided that the expression of his view docs not 
take the form of an appeal to voters to vote for or against someone on grounds 
of caste , race , community or religion etc . The legislature was competent to 
place this restrition on the fundamental right of a candidate for an election . It 
was a very necessary restriction iſ the secular character of the state is to be 
maintained . It would also be a justifiable restriction on the guaranteed freedom 
in the interest of the security of the state . If appcals to community , race or 
religion are permitted if grievances about curtailment of religious freedom could 
be made use at elections. the purpose of abolishing separate electorates would be 
completely frustrated . The citizens and the legislatures would be divided once . 


_ 


- 2562 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [Part II 

- - - - - - 
again into religious or communal compartments making repetition of history 
possible . I entertain no doubt that an appeal to voters which falls within the 
ambit of section 123 ( 3 ) constitutes a corrupt practice which vitiates an election . 

211. Mr. Lahiri contended that the corrupt practice alleged and proved falls 
under section 123 ( 2 ) also he urged that the allegations made in para , 8 , 9 , 10 
and il of the petition set up a case of under influence as well and that evidence 
seen in the light of these allegations would show that Amjad Ali and his support 
. ers were also guilty of exercising under influence on the voters. 

212 . I am not impressed with this argument. I have carefully gone through 
the petition and have noticed all allegations made in it . The petitioner s case is 
put at its highest pitch in para 8 , where it is averred that these voters are mostly 
jlliterate , simple and susceptible to false religious propaganda and the opposite 
party , being also a member of the minority community took full advantage either 
himself or through his supporters and also through the Assembly candidates from 
the P . S . P and other independent candidates and carried mischievious propaganda 
on religious ar. d communal lines amounting to corrupt practices and this led a 
was majority , 

213 . In para 9 the subject matter of the propaganda is given , The heads 
under which it was carried on are set out in details . 


214 . In para 10 , we have specified instances of the alleged propaganda on 
· religious and communal lines . The contention that the alleged propaganda 
amounted to an appeal on religious and communal grounds is repeated adnaseum . 
[ n para 11 it was averred that the religious sentiments and susceptibilities were 
Cully exploited by the opposite party , and his supporters and a serious apprehen 
sion was created in their minds that their religious rights and freedom were not 
safe in the hand of the Congress Government and the party . 


215 . The word undue influence is conspicious by its absence from the petition , 
There is no hint or suggestion that there was any direct or indirect interference or 
attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent or of any other 
person with the free exercise of any right. Whilst the language of section 123 ( 3 ) 
is repeated frequently the petitioner did not venture to put forward the plea that 
this propaganda attributed by him to his rival candidate could also fall under 
section 123 ( 2 ) , 


216 . Issues were settled with the consent of the parties. The very first issue , 
the most important one in this case , involves the question whether there was an 
appeal to voters on religious or communal lines. There was no issue on the point 
whether undue inſlucnce was exercised or atternpted for interference with the right 
of voting. Issues two and three refer to the same corrupt practice which forms 
the subject matter of Issue No. 1 . It seems to me that till the case reached the 
argument stage all that the petitioner was asserting was that a systematic appeal 
on religious and communal lines had vitiated — the election . If undus influence 
was sought to be alleged it was done in such a way that due notice of it was not 
conveyed to the respondent. 


217. To constitute unduc influence within the meaning of section 123 ( 2 ) of the 
Act it is not necessary that there should be any actual threat or physical com 
pulsion , but the method of inducement adopted should convey to the mind of the 
person addressed that non - compliance with the wishes of the person offering the 
inducement may result in physical or spiritual harm to himself or to any other 
person in whom he is interested . Some fear of harm resulting from non - compliance 
with the request is an essential element in undue influence , where the influence 
is said to be by a religious appeal it should be shuwn that it was made to appeal 
to the persons addressed that non -compliance would be considered to be irreligious 
or sinful, This kind of undue influence can generally be exercised by religious 
teachers or persons having reputation for learning and piety ; it may be exercised 
by a news paper editor , if he has some standing in the society / vide ( 6 , E . L . R . 
318 ) — Sardar Singh 17 . Hukum Singh and others. The definition does not hit at 
influence or persuasion . Its essential requirement is expressed by the word 
undue . It is the abuse of influence that makes it a corrupt practice . It is only 
when an element of compulsion whatever its form comes in that the influence 
becomes undue. This compulsion interference with the voters freedom in the 
exercise of his electoral right. The voter ceases to be a free agent. Undue in 
fluence, therefore, would generally take some form of co -ercion intimidation or 
threat. A mere appeal to voters an grounds of religion or a mere appeal to reli 
: gious prejudices is not undue influence , 


SEC. 3 ( i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2563 
- - - - - - - - - -- - - - : - * . - - - 

218 . Seen in this light the evidence adduced by the petitioner even if taken at 
its face value does not make out any case of undue influence. Mr. Lahiri has not 
referred me to any evidence in particular showing that anything was said or done 
which would amount to undue influence as distinguished from a systematic appeal 
to voters on grounds of religion , but mere appeal on grounds of religion is not 
synonymous with undue influence , 

219 . Petitioner deposed that Hafiz Nur Md. and others told yoters that they 
would become Kaffirs by voting for the Congress. Another witness has also attri 
buted this statement to Hafiz Nur Mohmmad. This evidence is an improvement 
on the allegations in the petition and cannot be considered seriously . Petitioner 
himself did not make any serious effort to allege and prove exercise of undue in 
fluence by the respondent or any one of his supporters . In my view undue influ 
ence is neither alleged nor proved . 

220. In view of the definite finding arrived at by me, the question about tho 
standard of proof in election cases losses its importance so far as this case is con 
cerned . It is not necessary for me to pronounce on it . The English and the 
American view is that election cases being civil in nature , may be decided on 2 
balance of probabilities . The consensus of view in India in cases of corrupt prac 
tices particularly bribery which entails criminal liability seems to be that the 
alleged corrupt practice should be proved beyond any reasonable doubt . 

221. Evidence Act admittedly applies to the trial of Election cases. The word 
proved has been defined in the Act . A fact is said to be proved when after consi . 
dering the matters before it, the court either believes It to exist or considers Its 
existence so probable that a prudent man ought under the circumstances of the 
particular case to act upon the suggestion that it exists . This definition is appli 
cable to all cases civil and criminal including probate and election cases. What 
appears so probable under the circumstances of the case to a prudent man that he 
is induced to act on the supposition that It exists is proof. The probability must 
be under the circumstances of the particular case. The statutory rule is flexible . 
The judge trying the case is the prudent man of law . His conscience is to be 
satisfied about the probabilities of the situation . They should carry conviction to 
him . A physical certainty is almost impossible in human affairs, and therefore, 
also in criminal cases . But judges have invariably insisted on proof beyond 
reasonable doubt in criminal cases. This may be regarded as the demand of pru 
dence in criminal proceedings , but this demand may vary in degree with the 
change in the character of the procceding. It is a rule of prudence rather than 
law which requires more stringent proof in criminal than in civil cases. The 
standard of proof in all proceedings is the requirement of the prudent man which 
varies with each case . 


222 . The reasons for a difference or approach in civil and criminal cases have 
been stated in the following terms by Best - - There is a strong and marked differ 
ences as to the effect of the evidence in civil and criminal proceedings . In the 
former a mere preponderance of probability due regard being had to the burden 
of proof is a sufficient basis of decision , but in the later especially when the charge 
amounts to treason or felony a much higher degree of assurance is required . The 
serious consequences of an erroneous condemnation both to the accused and society 
the immcasurably greater cvil which flows from it than from anerroneous acquit 
tal have induced the laws of every wise and civilised nation to lay the principle 
though often lost sight of in practice that the persuasion of guilt ought to amount 
to a moral certainty or such moral certainty as convinces the minds of the tribu 
nals as reasonable men beyond all reasonable doubt. — vide Sarkars Law of 
Evidence 9th Edition p . 29 


223 The serious consequences which may flow from a wrong conviction parti 
cularly in serious cases like murder etc., call for great caution . The reasonable 
man of law is impelled to demand a higher standard of proof to avoid committing 
an irrevocable mistake with very serious consequences to the individual and the 
society . Even when he is so exacting he is within his rights under the definition 
given in the Evidence Art . 


224 . Election cases are not criminal proceedings. There can be no conviction . 
The procedure is not regulated by the criminal procedure Code The serious 
consequences that may flow from a wrong conviction in criminal cascs do not 
follow . A returned candidate mar lose his seat if found guilty of a corrupt prac 
tice . He may also lose his right to vote for a specified period . Serious as these 
conséquences are they are not as serious as the actual result of a wrong conviction . 
Argument by anology has its dangers and anology here is far from perfect or 
complete . 


2564 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [Pari II 
- - - 


- - 


- 


225 . It may be argued that a finding that a person has committed a corrupt 
practice may entall liability to prosecution . But a finding in a civil case that a 
person has been gullty of perjury fabrication of evidence or forgery or that he has 
committed such injury to the person or property of another that he has incurred 
criminal liability would also expose him to a similar danger . The immediate 
result of the civil proceeding is some kind of clvll liability. The disabilities result 
ing from a finding as to the commission of a corrupt practice involve no more than 
the loss of clvil rights . 


226 . The conflict appears to have resulted from an effort to evolve a rigid rule 
of general or universal application . The legislature has not attempted it . The 
difficulty of the task is amply illustrated by the large number of cases expressing 
different shades of views. This attempt may well be avoided. There are also 
practical difficulties in completely discarding the rule of preponderance of probabi 
lities in election cases , 

227. In Probate cases the proceeding is of a civil nature, yet they have some 
distinctive features . The testator is not on the scene. Those who challenge the 
will are generally not parties or privies to it . Prudence has dictated clear proof 
of the due execution of the will and of a fit disposing mind . Even in election cases 
particularly where corrupt practices like bribery and undue influences are alleged 
very strict proof ought to be demanded . It is for the petitioner to establish the 
corrupt practice by reliable evidence and in the matter of onus the proceeding may 
be similar to a criminal proceeding in which the burden is on the prosecution to 
establish the charge . But in regard to the standard of proof a rigid rule placing 
the respondent in an clection case on a level with the accused in a criminal trial 
does not appear to me to be necessary, or desirable . I do not feel persuaded to 
subscribe to the rule that an enquiry into a corrupt practice is in the nature of a 
criminal case and that the respondent is in the position of an accused person and 
thus absolved from all responsibility to adduce evidence or to rebut the case of 
the petition . 

228 . The distinguished Advocates for the Respondent - Shri N . C . Chatterjee 
and Shri S . M . Lahiri the learned Advocate General, discussed the question at some 
length . I have under the circumstances thought it At to make a few observations 
on it, as at present advised , though it was not necessary for me to pronounce on it 
for the purposes of this case . The evidence in this case when read as a whole has 
induced the finding that the petitioner has succeeded in proving beyond any reason 
able doubt that the corrupt practice defined in section 123 ( 3 ) has been committed 
by Amjad Ali and some oť his supporters with his consent. The cases of his 
şupporters will be dealt with under Issue No. 5 . 


229 . Issile No . 1 — On the findings reached abovc, Issue No . 1 is decided in 
petitioner s favour to the extent that the respondent and some of his supporters 
carried on propaganda on religious and communal lines which constitutes a corrupt 
practice defined in section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951. 


230 . Issue No. 2 . — Though some supporters committed the corrupt practice 
defined in section 123 ( 3 ) in furtherance of Amjad All s Interests in the election , it 
has not been proved that the result of the election has been materially affected 
thereby . This part of the issue was not pressed . The difference in the number of 
votes is so large that mere appeals on communal or religious grounds could not 
explain it away. Notwithstanding the spate and the virulence of the appeals on 
religious and communal grounds. Dhubri and Mankashar seats of the Legislative 
Assembly were bagged by the Congress . From Gauripur an independent candidate 
who is a Hindu was returned . South Salmára constituency recorded no change, 
Sahadat Ali the sitting member retained his seat. In these constituencies Muslims 
are admittedly in a majority . Apparently they were not all carried away by the 
propaganda with a sinister appeal. Even Golakganj seat has gone to the Con 
gress , Jahanuddin Ahmed , a P . S . P . candidate was returned from Bilashipara . 
Out of six seats from Dhubri Şub - Division the P . S . P . got only two. The Congress 
secured three. An independent candidate secured the sixth . From Bhaidbari 
circle petitioner secured 352 votes against 118 votes secured by Amjad All. Thus 
issue is decided against the petitioner . 


231. Issue No. 3 . — The election of Amjad Ali - respondent to the House of the 
People from H . P . 38 – Dhubri Parliamentary Constituency, is found to be vold on 
the ground that he and some of his supporters with his knowledge and consent 
appealed to voters to vote for him and other P . S . P . candidates and to vote against 
Congress candidates on religious and communal grounds. This constitutes a 
corrupt practice which is defined in section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act . The issue is decided 
In favour of the petitioner , 


SF.C. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802565 
- - - 

— 

IIS 
232 . Issue No. 4 , — Issue No . 4 has not been pressed at all . There is no evidence 
on this point and it is answered in the negative . 

233 . Issue No. 5 . — This issuc was pressed only against Jahanuddin Ahmed , 
Sahadat All, and Bibhuti Sarkar. The learned counsel for the petitioner does not 
urge that proof against others was adequate for a finding of a systematic appeal to 
voters on grounds of religious or communal, even though there was evidence 
against them also that on occasions they indulged in appeals on communal and 
religious grounds. Azad Al, Baul Fazl were candidates. Santi Roy , Hussain All 
Pradhani were the supporters of the petitioners. There is evidence that they also 
contributed to appeals on grounds of religion . This evidence , however , even if 
taken at its face value does not make out a case of Systematic appeal against 
them . The case of Sahadat All is not different from the rest against whom charge 
of the corrupt practices is not pressed . 

234 , Capt . Williamson Sangma, Shamsher Ali, Afazuddin Mandal were said to 
have been associated with the Bhaidbari meeting only . There is no evidence 
against Capt . Williamson Sangma about the commission of any corrupt practice . 
Evidence against the other two also is not the best that should have been available . 
The charge against them was also not pressed very righty. 

235 . Salyed Ali was an independent candidate . He has not been shown to be 
an agent or supporter of Amjad All. There is no proof that he did anythinē with 
Amjad Ali s consent in furtherance of his election prospects . We are thus left 
with the cases of Amjad Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed , and Bibhuti Sarkar . 

236 . I have already recorded the findings that Amjad All and some of his 
supporters were guilty of the corrupt practice defined in section 123 ( 3 ) . After the 
completion of the enquiry against Amjad Ali argument was heard on 25th March , 
1958 . It was ordered that notices shall issue to Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar under Section 99 to show cause why they should not be named . It was not 
necessary to issue notice to Amjad All at that stage . He had fully cross -examined , 
petitioner witnesses and produced his defence . The other two namely - Jahanud 
din Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar have shown cause . They have cross -examined a 
large number of witnesses. They have also examined some witnesses in defence . 
This additional material has been taken into consideration not only in favour of 
Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar, but in favour of Amjad All also . 

237. The evidence against all these has been summarised and fully discussed 
above. Amjad Ali deposed that at Fakiraganj, Jaleswar, Chunarl, Goalachar , 
Gauripur - Goahata , Kachari Hat , Chappar, and Lakhiganj, he , Jahanuddin and 
Bibhuti Sarkar addressed the gatherings . He also deposed that on 17th February 
at Bengalipara and on 22nd February at Goalachar he and Jahanuddin Ahmed 
addressed the meeting. On 23rd February he and Bibhuti Şarkar addressed the 
meeting at Dharamsala . Both Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar are 
admittedly members of the P . S . P . and were supporting Amjad All. Jahanuddin 
Ahmed was a P . S . P . candidate for an Assembly seat and was as much Interested 
in the contest as Amjad Ali himself. 

238 . Jahanuddin Ahmed was a member of the Municipal Board , Dhubri for two 
terms and member of the Local Board for three terms. He was a member of the 
Legislative Assembly from 1937 to 1945 . He was returned on independent ticket. 
After his election he joined the United People s Party with the late şir Sahadulla 
as the leader . Later , Sir Sahadulla Khan and a majority of the United Peopleg 
party joined the Muslim league. He followed the late Shri Rohini Kumar 
Choudhury after a break from Sir Sahadulla s party . In 1952 he stood on Socialist 
party ticket and was defeated . Umoruddin , an independent candidate succeeded . 
In the last election Tahanuddin Ahmed was a P . S . P . candidate from the Bilashi 
para constituency . He was elected . He has supported Amjad All in regard to 
dates and places of meetings addressed by them together. He was convicted for 
alleged embezzlement, but was acquitted on appeal . He was also convicted for 
contempt of court . He was detained for a month under the Preventive Detention 
Act . At present a complaint under sections 323 and 447 is pending against him , 
his brother and his brother s son . The complainant is his brother - in -law . Two 
of his gons are serving under the Pakistan Government. The Local Board was 
suspended when he was its chairman . 

239. He could give the name of only one person who asked questions at Gourl . 
pur He denied that other persons who asked question were P . S . P . workers . He 
has stated that only Amjad Ali answered the questions. He was asked if he had 
stated in his written statement in Bazlul Basit case that different person answered 
the questions. He could not recollect if he had done so . 

240 . Bibhuti Sarkar was in the Socialist wing of the Congress before 1948 . He 
was a member of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee and suffered imprison 
ment on the two occasions in 1930 and 1942. When Socialists broke away from 


2566 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . VOVEMBER 29 , 1958, AGRAHAYANA A , 1880 (Part II 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 

- - - - 
the Congress in 1948 he also left the Congress. He has deposed that P . S . P . is a 
recognised national party . 

241, On his own showing he addressed meetings ( 1 ) at Fakiraganj, ( 2 ) Jales 
war, ( 3 ) Chunnari and ( 4 ) South Salmara . On 23rd January he crossed over to 
the north bank . He was present in the meeting at Gauripur Goahata . On 7th 
February he went to Bilashipara with Jahanuddin Ahmed . He was again on the 
South Bank and toured that side from 17th February to 24th February . He attend 
ed meetings at Chappar , Lakhiganj, and Bilasipara Hat. He has denied having 
attended the meeting at Dharamsala , and thereby contradicted Amjad Ali on this 
point. He deposed that he could not remember if he opposed the candidature of 
J . Das for the Presidentship of Dhubri District Congress Committee before he 
came out of the Congress fold and denied the suggestion that he left the Congress 
as he had failed to put his nominee in the position of the President of the Dhubri 
District Congress Committee. 

242. He admitted that when Amjad Ali spoke he was doing so for all the party 
candidates . They were agreed on the line of propaganda , issue of hand bills and 
the election manifesto . He admitted that Amjad Ali when speaking about the 
Assam Cattle Preservation Act said that a similar bill was sought to be moved in 
the Parliament and added that Amjad Ali did not express any opinion whether 
it was for the good of the Muslims or otherwise . He could not give the name of 
any person who asked questions about the Assam Cattle Preservation Act in the 
nieetings in which it was admittedly discussed . He denied suggestions about 
appeals on religious and communal grounds . 

243. It is obvious from the statements of Jahanuddin Ahmed and Bibhuti 
Sarkar that they were Amjad Ali s chief supporters. They have admittedly attend 
ed inost of the important meetings . Evidence as to the utterances in the meeting 
is the same. On that evidence when examined in the light of additional material 
placed on the record by or on behalf of Jahanuddin and Bibhuti Sarkar I have 
come to the conclusion that Amjad Ali and some of his supporters with his con 
sent carried on propaganda in furtherance of his election prospects by telling the 
voiers to refrain from voting for the Congress candidates and to vote for the 
P . S . P . candidates on religious and communal grounds. The supporters who like 
Amjad Ali were guilty of a systematic appeal on the lines stated above are Jahan 
uddin Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar , Jahanuddin Ahmed a P . S . P . candidate was 
helping himself too . I have reached this conclusion notwithstanding some diffe 
rences between the parties as to dates and places of some of the meeting. It has 
been urged that there were Hindu voters and therefore propaganda on communal 
grounds had its risks. It is common ground that four out of six constituencies of 
the Dhubri Sub - division which are parts of the Parliamentary constituency are 
muslim majority areas , and in the two others though muslims are in minority 
their members are very substantial. This is what the petitioner has deposed and 
there has been no serious challenge to this statement. In fact taking petitioner s 
statement for granted it was argued that it was in one only out of the four muslim 
majority areas that a P . S . P . candidate succeeded despite allegations of communal 
and religious propaganda . Seeing the proportion of the Muslims in all these six 
constituencies taken together, there was no great risk for Amjad Ali if propa 
ganda on the lines as alleged was carried on openly . The fact that only one out 
of four P . S . P . candidates secured a seat in muslim majority areas, has no hearing 
on the question that arises under Issues No. 1 and 3 . It propaganda which falls 
under the ambit of section 123 ( 3 ) was carried on in fact, there would be a corrupt 
practice even though its purpose was not achieved . 

244 , I think evidence on record leaves no room for doubt that all three - Amjad 
Ali, Jahanuddin Ahmed, and Bibhuti Bhusan Şarkar with Amjad Ali s consent 
were guilty of a systematic appeal to voters to vote for the P . S . P . and refrain 
from voting for the Congress on grounds of community and religion in furtherance 
of Amjad Ali s , election prospects , and were thus guilty of the corrupt practice 
denned in section 123 ( 3 ) . They have thus incurred the liability to be named 
under section 99 . 

245 . It has been pointed out on behalf of Jahanuddin Ahmed that the election 
petition against him abated. He was a party to Bazlul Basit s petition . This 
petition was dismissed by Shri B . C . Barua , Member , Election Tribunal, Gauhati. 
He was not named . On the strength of these decisions it is argued that the ques 
tion whether Jahanuddin Ahmed was guilty of the corrupt practice which has been 
attributed to him in Bazul Basit s petition could not be agitated afresh in this 
case. In other words, the contention is that Shri B . C . Barua s decision operates 
as a bar to any finding adverse to Jahanuddin Ahmed on the charge hurled against 
him . The contention does not seem to me to be sound . Bazlul Basit was a candi 
date for a seat in the Assam Assembly . His constituency was one out of the ten 


= 


- 


- - 


- 


SEC . (ii) ! THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRANAYANA 8 , 1880 2567 
- - - - = . - = - 

- = 
constituencies which constitute the Parliamentary constituency from which Amjad 
Ali and the petitioner were the candidates The two constituencies in question 
can not be identical in any respect . They differ widely in area and voting strength . 

246. The parties to the two cases are different and so are the issues . The 
evidence also is not the same, 

247. The jurisdiction of the two Tribunals is not concurrent. 

248 . Shri B . C . Barua did not hold that Jahanuddin Ahmed did not commit any 
corrupt practice as a supporter to Amjad Ali. This was not the question before 
him . 


249 . The finding in that case was that there was propaganda of a communal 
or religious nature on the basis of the Assam Cattle Preservation Act in the main . 
The Funeral Reforms Bill and Ramdhun Geet were utilised in a subsidiary way . 

250 . The learned Judge however , found that this propaganda was permissible 
in law . His view of the law is not binding on the parties to this case . I have 
found it difficult to subscribe to it with great respect to him , Mr. Bose has not 
referred to any provision in the Statute or to any precedent in support of his 
contențion that the decision in Bazlul Basit s case constitutes a bar to a trial of 
the charge of corrupt practice against Jahanuddin Ahmed in relation to Amjad 
Ali s election or that a different view from that which prevailed with Shri B . C . 
Barua is not possible for me to take. 

251. The anology of criminal cases is not apt. There is no question of 
acquittal or conviction . The issue before me is whether Jahanuddin Ahmed has 
been guilty of a corrupt practice as a supporter of Amjad Ali. This has not been 
tried before. 

252 . I see no substance in this contention , 

253 . In the course of the argument Mr. Bose referred to section 140 of the 
Representation of the People Act. He scemed to apprehend that the finding 
against Jahanuddin Ahmed of having been guilty of a corrupt practice may 
result in the avoidance of his own election to the Assam Assembly . The finding 
has been arrived at upon the trial of a election petition under part VI. As a 
result he would stand disqualified for a period of six years from the date on 
which the finding take effects for voting at any election under section 141 of 
the Act. The applicability of section 140 is also attracted . The same finding 
also entails a disqualification for membership of Parliament and the Legislature 
of any state for a period of six years commencing from the date the finding 
takes effect. The disqualification appears to me to be prospective and not 
retrospective in character. Jahanuddin should , therefore would be disqualified 
for membership for six years from the date the disqualification Operates . It 
disqualification is not removed he would not be eligible for candidature in the 
next clection . Could it also result in the avoidance of his election to the State 
Assembly ? Under Section 80 of the Art no election can be called into question 
except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provision of 
Part VI of the Act. A petition was so presented . It has abated . Mr. Boge s 
view seemed to be that this election should remain unaffected despite the 
disqualification which could attach to Jahanuddin Ahmed under section 140 of 
the Act. Though section 80 appears to support his contention there are other 
provisions of the Act which bear on the matter . It is not, however, necessary 
for me to give any Anding on this question in this petition , and therefore, I 
refrain fron pronouncing on it . Even if Mr. Bose s fears were well founded I 
don t see how I could decline to exercise jurisdiction in the matter 
which forms the subject matter of issue No. 5 or refuse to discharge 
my obligations under section 99 by giving findings which it is obligatory on an 
election tribunal to give . 

254. As a result of thc findings recorded above, the election of Amjad Ali 
to the House of the People from H . P , 38 — Dhubri Parliamentary Constituency is 
declared void under section 98 ( b ) read with section 100 ( b ) of the Representation 
of the People Act. 


255 . Mr. Lahiri has somewhat faintly argued that the peitioner be declared 
elected it election of Amjad Ali is found void , I have come to the conclusion 
that the election of Amjad Ali is void . But it does not follow that the petitioner 
becomes entitled to be declared that he was duly elected . The election of Amjad 
Ali has been adjudged void on the grounds that he has been guilty of a corrupt 
practice . The petitioner has failed to show that the result of the election has 
been materially affected by reason of the corrupt practice committed . This 
relief is refused . 


25687HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958, AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 
- = - - - - 

— - - - - - - 
256 . The parties to this case took up extreme position . They have not been 
able to substantiate all they alleged . The petitioner has succeeded on issues No. 1 
and 3 , he has not succeeded on Issues No . 2 and 4 . His success on issue No. 5 
is partial. I have also found it difficult to believe that Amjad Ali and his 
supporters confined themselves to a discussion of the religious and communal 
matters only . That would be extremely improbable . Amjad Ali is in no better 
position . His case was that there was no appeal to voters on religious or 
communal grounds . The planks of his campaign attributed to him in this 
petition was totally repudiated . He had to admit that in some ineetings at least, 
The Act came up for discussion , a concession which find no place in the written 
statement. His version was that propaganda on his side was limited to matters 
purely political or economic , has been amply disproved. He also has not been 
able to substantiate his case . The main issue has been decided against him . 
But the propaganda carried on by Amjad Ali and his supporters was to a 
certain extent invited or induced by circumstances over which they had no 
control, The Act which was passed in 1951 was given effect to just at the eve 
of the elections in 1956 . It need not surprise any one if Muslims or a large 
section of them did not feel happy about it. Its controversial character cannot 
be disputed . The Funeral Reforms Bill thrown out in the Lok Sabha was an 
attempt of a similar character . The singing of Ramdhun Gect in some Schools 
with Muslim students and teachers could well have been resented by some 
Muslims as it actually was . Even as a song of prayer to God it may not appeal 
to Muslims except the very few liberal ones to adopt it for their prayers or to 
invoke God in the typically Hindus style . The combination of circumstances 
was such that it could evoke adverse criticism . It provided an extremely 
tempting approach in areas predominantly Muslim in character . 

257. Another circumstance of importance is that the law on the point, whether 
appeals on grounds of religion , community ctc ., when coupled with appeals on 
matters which do not fall within the purview of section 123 ( 3 ) constitute a 
corrupt practice . I have found that they do. Shri B . C . Barua even after the 
Supreme Court s decision in 10 , EL. R . 120 , has followed what he has described 
as the principle of the Bombay decision . Shri N . C . Chatterjee has relied on 
the Bombay decision before me. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court found 
section 123 ( 3 ) intra vires on the assumption that it inyolved a conflict with the 
provision of the Constitution contained in Art. 19 ( 1 ) ( a ) , but they did not give 
their interpretation of the provision . In the circumstances the law as to the 
import of section 123 ( 3 ) may not have been regarded as settled when the 
elections were held in 1957. The Respondent may have believed that the 
propaganda if it was not purely on religious and communal grounds, was not 
within the mischief of section 123 ( 3 ) . He may possibly have regarded the law 
as in a state of flux . In fact his conduct in relation to some documents produced 
by him in this case leads to the inference that at least at the early stages of 
the trial he contemplated giving evidence in justification of his criticism of the 
Act, the bill and the Ramdhun Geet. If this was his view even after the Aling 
of the petition , his propaganda could be in the belief that there was justifcation 
for it. Considering the state of the law at the time and Amjad Ali s conduct 
in relation to this trial, the possibility about an erroneous belief as to the correct 
legal position remains. This could have been a contributory factor. These 
circumstances have a bearing on the question of costs as also on the exercise 
of powers of the Election Commission under sections 140A and 144 of the 
Representation of the People Act. I think in the circumstances aforesaid it is 
appropriate that the parties should bear their own costs , 

258. For reasons given above the election of Amjad Ali is declared void , 
under section 98 ( b ) read with section 100 ( b ) , and Nazmul Haque , petitioner is 
not declared duly elected . 

259. Under section 99 ( 1 ) I find that Amjad Ali himself, and Jahanuddin 
Ahmed and Bibhuti Sarkar, his supporters with his consent committed the 
corrupt practice defined in section 123 ( 3 ) . The names of all three are recorded 
under section 99 ( 1 ) . 
280 . The parties shall bear their own costs. 

R . LABHAYA , 

Member, 

Eelection Tribunal, Gauhati. 
Dated Gauhati, 
Dated the , 30th August, 1958 . 


(No. 82 / 237 / 67/ 1195 ] . 
DIN DAYAL , Under Secy . 


- 


SFC : 3 ( i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 . 1880 2569 
. - - - : - - - = - - = .. 

New Delhi, the 2011 November, 1958 
S . O . 2446 , — In exercisc of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 (43 of 1951) , the Election 
Commission hereby appoints the following four officers , in addition to those 
appointed by its notification No. 434 / 6 / 56 ( 1 ) , dated the 7th January , 1957 , to 
assist the Returning Officer for the lloshangabad Parliamentary constituency in 
the performance of his functions, namely : 

1. The Personal Assistant to Collector, Hoshangabad . 
2. The Sub -Divisional Officer , Hoshangabad , 
3 . The Personal Assistant to Collector . Narsimhapur. 
4 . The Sub -Divisional Officer , Narsimhapur, 

[No. 434 / 6 /58 (1 ). ] 

By order , 
S . C . ROY , Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 20th November, 1958 
S . O . 2447. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that all contracts and agree 
ments relating to the printing work of the Signal Training Centre , Jubbulpore, 
shall be executed on his behalf by the Commandant, Signal Training Centre , 
Jubbulpore , 

[NO . F . 44 ( 155 / 58 - J . ] 
P . K . BOSE . Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi the 12th November , 1958 
S . O . 2448 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11, clause 
( b ) of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub -rule ( 1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil Services 
( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to the notification of the 
Governrnent of India in the Ministry of External Affairs No , S .R . O , 21, dated the 
23rd December , 1957, namely : 

In the said Schedule ,-- 

( 1 ) in Part I, before the heading " Naga Hillo Tuensang Area " in column 1 and 
the entries relating thereto in columns 2 to 4 , the following heading and entries 
shall be inserted , namely : 


STATEMENT I 


4 


Secretariat 

Assistarı Information Officer 


. 


Information Assistant . 


. 


. 


. Secretary , Ministry of External Secretary , Ministry of External All 
Affairs , 

Affain , 
. Secretary, Alinistry of External Secretary, Ministry of Exteroal Ali 
dffairs . 

Affairs . 
Director, External Publicity Divi- ri . to ji: 

sion . 


- 


Librarian , External Publicity Division 


- 


Sectelary , Afinistry of Exlocal Secretary , Ministry of External All 
Affairs . 

Affairs, 
Director, External Priblicity Divi- (i) to ji 

sion . 


2570THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880[PARTII 


Indian Afissions Posts Abroad 

Assistant Press Arache 


MI. 


. 


Officer on Special Duty , Informacion ) 

Services of India , Cairn . 
Informacion Assistant 
Translator, Librarian and Ediror. in 1 

the information Services of India 


Secretary , Ministry of External Secretary, Ministry of External All 
Stairs . 

AffaiN . 
Secretary , Ministry of External All 

Affairs . 
Secretary , Ministry of External Head of Mission Post, if he is de- (i, to ii ) 
Affairs . 

signated Head of a Department , 


Central Puissport Organisation 

Superintendent . . 


Secretary, Ministry of External Secretary , Niinistry of External All 
Affairs , 

Affairs, 
Chief Passport Officer, 


(i ) 


columns 2 to 


4, 


( 2) in Part II, betore the heading " Naga Hills - Tuensang Area" in column 1 and the entries relating thereto in 
the following heading and entries shall be inserted , namely : 

STATEMENT II 
- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - 


Secretariat 
Lion Operator . . Director , External Publicity Director, External Publicily Divi- All Secretary , Ministry of Extemal 
Division , Ministry of Ex - sjon , Ministry ofExtesnal Affairs 

Affairs , 
Printer , , . . ternal Affairs , 
Indian Mfissions: Posis Abroad 
Wireless Operator . , Director, External Publicity Director, External Publicity Divi- All Secretary , Ministry of Externa 
Division , Alinistry of Ex - sion , Ministry of Exterral Affairs 

Affairs . 
Publicity Organiser . . ternal Affairs. 

Officer of the rank of First Secre - ( i) to (iii) Secretary , Ministry of Externa) 
tary or above or if there is no 

Affairs. 
such officer , Head of Mission 

Post, 
Central Passport Organisarin 
Assistant; Upper Division Chief Passport Officer 

Chief Passport Officer . . All Secretary , Alinistry of External 
Clerk ; Lower Division Clerk 

Affairs . 
and Stenographer . 

Regional Passport Officer . (i) Chief Passport Officer. 


Sec.$(ji)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAMAYANA8,18802571 


-= 


= 


= 


= 


columns 2 to 4, 


(3) in Part III before the heading " Naga Hills- Tuensang Area " in column 1 and the entries relating thereto in 
the following heading and entries shall be inserted , namely : - - 

STATEMENT III 


Indian Missions/ Posts Abroad 
AU Posts 

. 


. Under Secretary , Ministry of Ex - Under Secretary , Ministry of Ex - All Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Ex 
ternal Affairs . terbal Affairs. 

ternal Affairs . 
Officer of the rank of Second Sec - i to (iii, Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Ex 
retary or above in respect of 

ternal Affairs . 
staff serving in Indian Missions : 
Posts abroad . 


Coural Passport Organisation 

All Posts . . . 


, Regional Passport Officet . 


Regional Passport Offices . 


All 


Chief Passport Officer. 


2572 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
NOVEMBER 
29 
, 
1958 
/ 
AGRAHAYANA 
8 
, 
1880 


[No, F . 6 (1 )-FSP / 58. ] 
K . SANKARA PILLAI, Dy . Secy . 


-------- 


[ 
Part 
II 


e of the powers Oaths and Press Chopra , 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2572 
-- - - 

- - - - 
New Delhi, the 19th November 1958 
S . O . 2449. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 2 
of the Diplomatic and Consular Oncers (Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948 (41 of 1948 ) . 
the Central Government hereby authorises ( i ) Shri R . N . Chopra , Registrar, Office 
of the Commissioner for the Government of India in Mauritius, and ( ii ) Shri 
B , S . Gujral, Assistant, Vice -Consulate of India , Zahidan , to perform the duties 
of Consular Agents with retrospective cffect from the 5th and 15th October 1958, 
respectively and until further orders . 

G . P . MATHUR, Attache (Cons.) 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1958 
S . O , 2450. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. F . 4 ( 46 ) - F . 1 /49, dated the 3rd 
August 1949, the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve 
Bank of India , hereby declares that during the period upto and inclusive of 31st 
December , 1959, the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the said Act shall 
not apply to the following banking companies, namely :- - 

( 1 ) The Chawla Bank Ltd . 
( 2 ) The Colony Bank Ltd . 
( 3 ) The Commercial Bank of India Ltd . 
( 4 ) The Punjab & Kashmir Bank Ltd . 
( 5 ) The Traders Bank Ltd . 

[No. F .4 ( 131 ) - BC / 58. ] 
D . N . GHOSH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Economic Altairs ) 

New Delhi, the 19th November 1958 
S . O . 2451 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India as on the 14th November 1958 . 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 
- - - 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital paid up . . . . . 
Reserve Fund , . . . . . . 
Nacional AgriculturalCredit ( Long - term Operations) 

Fund . . . . . . 
NationalAgricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Deposite : 


7,32 , 16 ,000 

2 ,59 ,000 
4 ,65,000 


. . 
. 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 Notes 
80,00 , 00 ,000 Rupee Coin 

Subsidiary Coin 
25,00 , 00 ,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
3 , 00 . 00 ,000 

(a ) Internal . . . . 
(6) Extema! . . . 

(c) Government Treasury BiHs 
63, 33,26 ,000 Balances held abroad * . . . 
18 , 17 ,22 , 000 * *Lsans and Advances to Governments 
79,88 .20 .CCO Other Loans and Advancest 
114, 48,02, 000 Investments 
14 ,67,33,000 Other Assets 
20, 07, 00 ,000 
423, 61 ,03,000 

Rupees 


2574THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880[PartII 


. 


(2 ) Government 

( 1) Central Government . . 

(2 ) Other Governments 
(b ) Banks . . 

(c) Others 
Bills Payable . . 
Other Liabilities : 

Rupees 


. 


4 , 68 ,64.000 
18 ,32 ,54 ,000 
22 , 25 ,37 ,000 
58 ,28 ,24 ,000 
302 , 52 , 26 ,000 
10 , 14 , 58 ,000 


RE 


. 


423 ,61,03 ,000 


Dated the 19th November 1958 . 


* Includes Cash & Short term Securities . 
* * Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments . 
The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs. 96 , 00 , 000 / - advanced to scheduled banks against 

useace bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the 14th day of November 1958 . 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Notes held in the Banking 

Department , , 


. 


7 ,32 , 16 .000 
1585 ,92,40 ,000 


117 :76 . 03 . 000 


- 


Notes in circulation 


Total Noies issued 


. 


A . Gold Coin and Bullion : 

( u ) Held in India . . 

10 ) Held outside ludia 
1593 ,24 ,56 ,000 Foreign Securities . . 

TOTAL OF A . . 
B . Kupee Coin . . . 
Government of India Rupee 

Securities 


164,67 , 56 . 000 


282 , 43 , 59, 000 


135 , 05 , 26, 000 
1174 ,72 ,71,000 


=== Sec.3(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDLI:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880)2575 


- 


- 


- 


Internal Bills of Exchange and 

other commercial paper . 


- 


Total LIABILITIES 


. 


1593,24 , 56 ,000 


TOTAL ASSETS . 


. 


1593 .21, 56 ,000 


Dated the 19th day of November 1958 


H . V . R . IENGAR, Governor. 


[No, F . 312 )- F . 1 /58 .] 
A . BAKSI, Jt. Secy . 


2576THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [PART II 
= - = - = - = - : 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
( Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1958 
S . O . 2462. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty chargeable under the said Act in respect of the following 
instruments executed by the High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in India , 
namely : 
( 1 ) Lease deed dated the 10th October, 1958 in respect of ground floor flat 

at No. 107 , Jorbagh , New Delhi, 
( 2) Leane deed dated the 12th October, 1958 in respect of first floor flat at . 

No. 13 / 39 Chanakyapuri, New Delhi. 
( 3 ) Lease deed dated the 16th October, 1958 in respect of ground floor flat 
at " Parkview " , No 12 , Nizamuddin East ( Jaipur Plots ) New Delhi. 

[No. 37.1] 
G . S . SAWHNEY , Under Secy . 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , BANGALORE 

Bangalore , the 19th June , 1958 
S . O . 2453 ,-- In exercise of the powers conferred on me under rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules 1944 , I hereby direct that every manufacturer of Vegetable 
non - essential oils within the jurisdiction of the Central Excise Collectorate , Mygore , 
shall within 15 days of the publication of this notifcation , maintain ( 1 ) a Dip 
Register in the form prescribed at Annexure A in respect of oil stored in the 
bonded storage Tanks and ( 2 ) Stock cards in form prescribed at Annexure B in 
respect of oil packed in tins, barrels , etc , and stored in the Bonded Store room 
within the licensed factory premises. 


ANNEXURE A 
· Records for Wips taken 


Tank No. 


. 


. 


. Dimensions 


Mds. 


Seers 


Tons 


Cwt. 


Ibs . 


Capacity 


Calibration per incl . 


Date 


Time 


Dip 
reading 


Quantity 


Balance 


Remarks 


Reccipi 
into the 

fank 


Issues 
from the 

tank 


NOTE :- 


( ) One page should be alluwed for each tank for a month . 
(iz) Dip reading shoulj be noted before and after each operation whether pertaining 

10 receipt or issue, 
( iii ) Only one operation either receipt or issue will be permitted at one time from a 

tunk witli minimum of 2 hours interval between cach operation . 


Sra. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1968 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2577 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


-- 


ANNEXURE B 
Foring of the stock card 


Stock Card No. : 
Name of the factory : 
Description of goods: 


L . 4. No . 


Date 


Opening Balance Recipes 

Issues Closing Balance 
No. of Net No, of Net No , of Net No. of Net , Romiks 
tins or weight ling or weight tins or wcight tins or weight 
barrels barrels barrels 

burrels 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 


Nore - Separate stuck cards should be maintained for each variety and for cuch size of container 
used . 

[No. 11 /58 .] 
D . N . KOHLI, Collector, 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Calcutta , the 17th November, 1958 
S . O . 2454 . — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 233 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 read with Rule 227 ibid and in supersession of this 
office Notification No . 21 / 1957, dated the 12th December , 1957 and all other orders 
on the subject it is hereby notifled that for the purpose of assessment of unmanu 
factured tobacco presented under item 91 ( 5 ) ( iii ) of the First Schedule of the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, the sieve should correspond to the specifica 
tions indicated below : 


Wire 


Sieve designation 
I . S . 460 - 1953 


Width of 
Aperçure 


Dianie ter . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


τοο 


0 . 0394 


0 . 023 " 


- 


- 


- 


[No. 16 / 1958 .] 
S. C . MATHUR , Collector. 


BOMBAY CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Bombay , the 31st October, 1958 
S . O . 2455. In pursuance of Rule 197 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944, 
I empower the Sub - Inspectors of Central Excise of Bombay Collectorate also to 
exercise the powers conferred under Rule 197 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
within their respective Jurisdiction . 

This Notification modifies the previous Notification No. CER / 233 / T / 1 / 57 dated 
the 10th January , 1957 to the above extent. 

[No. G .S . R . 197 / T / 3 / 58. ] 

T . C . SETH , Collector. 


- 


- 


2578 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 , AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [Paki J1 

- - - 

- - - - - - -- -- = - : : - - - - . 
OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LAND CUSTOMS 

BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Bornbay , the 19th November , 1958 
$ . 0 . 2456 .- -Whereas it appears that the marginally. Noted goods which were 

selzed by the S . R . P . party at 
List ottached . 

ļ a place called Kapas Temb 

i in Kinare village on Goa 
border on 19th May 1958 being exported by land to Goa ( Portuguese Territory in 
India ) in contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 and the 
Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industries Export Control Order 
No . 1 / 54 dated 10th May 1954 read with their P . N . NO. 4744 dated 23rd March 
1955 issued under the Import & Export ( Contro ] ) Act , 1947 and deemed to have 
been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . Now therefore , any 
person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the Dy. Collector 
of Central Excise and Land Customs Bombay why the above mentioned goods should 
not be confiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with 
Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a penalty should not be 
imposed on him under Section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with 
Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 . 

If such an owner falls to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods 
or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from 
the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette / 

the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly . 


diems f Scicure 


S . No. 


Description of goods 


Qty . 
- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


JI. 


14 . 


1 . Georgette liko sarees having flower design of different colours cach of 6 yards 7 
2 . Mysore surces of g yurds each . 
3 . Rosc colour georgette like sarees having organdistrups of 5 yds. euch 

Mysore type georgetic sarees of 5 yds, each 
Red colour georgette saree having fluwer design of St yards each 
Mysore type georgetro like sarucs of 5 yards 
Voil yarces having straps and flower design of 6 yards cach , 

Chit sarees of 6 yards each 
9 . Silk pieces of different colours of 1 yards cach . . 

Silk pieces of 15 yards cach , . 

Silk picce of 3 yards . . . 
12 . Chit cloth pieces of i yd . each . . 
13. Chit cloth picces of it yards each . . 

Voil chit cloth pieces of 1 yard each 
15 . Chit cloth pieces of 3 yards each . 
16 . White shirting of 3 yards piece . 
17 . White cloth picce of 15 yards 
18 . White clot) piece of 6 yards 
19 . Under -wear cloth picce having straps, 7 yards 
20 . Blue colour drill cloch piece of 3 yards 
21. Pairs of chaddars 
22 . Turkish towels 
23 . Blouses , 
24. Silk blouses 

Cotton blouses 
26 . Sarins parkats of Jiflerent colours 
27 . Chilis suit 

Small size sundow Banians . . 
29. Small size coloured Banians 
30. Childs cap ( Topade ) . . 
21. Child s cap . . 
32. Pillow covers . 
33 . Old turkisha zowel 
34 . Old pant . 
35 . Old Sarecs 


NNNNNNNN,Mmm 


SEC. 8 (it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2570 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


2 


bs. 


1 lb . 


B . Mds . 


seer 


36 . Tea powder . 
37. Coffco powder , , 
38. Photos with frames 
39 . Trunk of green colour 
40 . Empty glass jar 
41. Dhane ( Cordiander seeds) 
42. Patri (mace) . 
43 . (Mitt) Black pepero . 
44 . (Jire ) commin seeds . 
45 . (Halud) Turmeric . 

Velchi) Cardmom . 
Lawang ) Cloves 
Dalchini) Cinnamon . 
Badishep Fernal . 
(Methi) Foenugreek gratas . 
(Khaskhas) Poppy seeds . 


I 
I 


) 
2 


46 . 


10 tolas 

seti. 


I 
I 


> 
» 


(No. VIII (b ) 10 ( 175 ) Cus /58. ] 


S .O . 2457 . - Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 

seized by the Central Excise 
I . Betalnuts 3 bags 

2- B . Md8.- 30 Sre. Oficer , Satarda at a place 
2 . 7 O clock blades . . 

3950 , 

called Kalbachi Rai in the 
3 . Clovca , . . . 

Is lbs , 

Jurisdiction of Ch . No. 17 & 
4 . Tow bags Containing - - Mace , 

8 168. 

18 on 27th Aprli 1968 wero 
Imported by land from Goa 

( Portuguese Territory in 
Indla ) in contravention of Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 and 
the Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industries Import Contou 
Order No. 17 / 55 dated 7th December 1955 issued under the Import & Export 
( Control) Act, 1947 and deemed to have been issued under Section 19 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878. Now therefore, any person claiming the goods is hereby 
called upon to show cause to the Dy. Collector of Central Excise and Land 
Customs, Bombay why the above mentioned goods should not be confiscated under 
Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 and empty bage under Section 168 of the Sea Customs Act , 
1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under Section 7 ( 1) ( c ) of 
the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 107 (8 ), of the Sea Customs " Act 
1878 , 


If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette , the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly . 


[No. VIII (b ) 10 ( 178 ) Cus / 58. ] 


H . C . BAHRI, Dy. Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


New Delhi, the 19th November, 1958 


S . O . 2458 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( 1 ) of Clause 5 of 
the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order, 1949 , the Central Government hereby 
maltes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Government of 


2580 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [PART II 


India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No, S. R . O . 1317 dated the 9th 
June 1958 , namely :-- 
In the said Notification , 
I. in item A of paragraph 3 , for the figures , mark and word , 3 / 4 " wide" . 

the figures , mark and word , " 5 / 8 wide " shall be substituted ; 
II . for the Note II below paragraph 5, the following shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" NOTE II. - The specification of maximum distance between different sizes of 
hoops for bales of cotton piecegoods meant for export . 


Size of Hoops 


Maximum spacing 


- - - - 


- 


5 /8 " 


3 /4 " and 7 /8" 


Where cross hoops are used depending on the size of the bale the maximum 
spacing shall be : 


Size of Hoops 


Maximum spacing 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- --- - - 


- 


- 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3/4" and 7 /8" , 


TO " 
12 " 
14 " 


All the bales containing Dhoties, Chaddars / Sheets , Pillowcases , Dusters and 
similar materials shall be bound with cross hoops. 
Hoops under 5 / 8 " wide and thinner than 20s gauge shall not be used ." 

No. TCS . II / 1 ( 7 ) / 381 

[No. 25 (26)- TEX ( A ) /57- 8 ) 
8 . 0 . 2459 . — In exercise ofthe powers conferred by sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 6 of 
the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order , 1949 , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Commerce No, 67 -CW ( 25A ) / 48 , dated the 26th March , 
1949 , namely : 

In the said Notification , in the Table appended to paragraph 2 , for serial No. 2 
and the entries in columns 2 and 3 relating thereto , the following shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 


2 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


“ 2 Where the average count of yarn used in the cloth is 178 or finer but less than Lower 
26s. 

Medium 
2A . Where the average count of yarn used in the cloth is 268 or finer but less Higher 
tban 355. 

Medium " 


[No. TCS .II / 1 ( 2 ) / 58 . T 

[NO, 26 (26 )- TEX ( A )/ 57- 7 ] 
New Delhi, the 21st November 1958 
S . O . 2460 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Notification of the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry No. S .R . O . 1150 , dated 30th May , 1955 , namely : 

In the said notification , 
I in Form CST - D , 


in Part I, for the headings 


Corn 


Median 


Fine 


Superiore 


Tool 


the following shall be substituted , namely 


Course 


Lower Medium 


Higher Medium 


Fine 


Superfine 


Total 


Sto.%)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,18802581 


« 


Variety 


Cause 


( i ) in Part II, for the headings and calamos 
Medium 

Fige 
Lbs. 
Los. . Yds. 

Yds. Lbs. Yds 


Lbscarse Yds. 


Fent: 


Superfine 

Yds, 


Lbs. 


Yds. 


1 . 6 


Yds. 


Total 
Lbs. 
12 


T 


10 


IO 


Yds. " 
13 


11 


II 


12 _ 


13 


the following shall be abstituted , Damey 


* 


Vadets 


Fine 


Yds. 


Fento 
Lbs . Yde. 


Tot 
Lbs. · Yds. " 


Lower Medium Higher Medium 
Ydi . Lbs. 

Lbs. You 
4 16_ 

1 


Superfine 

Lbs. Yds. 
- _ 10 _ 11 _ _ _ 


1 


3 


8 


_ 


12_ 


13 _ _ _ 


14 _ 15 


( ) in Pæt LII, for the beading nad oslu mes. 


* 


Pedalen 


Coork 
Ya. . 


Total 


Mediam 
Y c . 


Fine 
Yds . 


Saperine 


Yde. 


Fenta 
Ydi. 


Yds. 


Fents 
Lbs. 


2582THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880 


- 


2 


3 


the following shall be pubtituted , namely - 


" Perticalm 


Coerte 


Higha Medium 


Lowa Methurm 

Yde. 


འཁབ ལ ཡ ཝཡ ར – རྡོ་ རོ ལྟ་ 


Superfine 


Yde . 


Five 
Yds. 


Yds. 


Y ds . 


Fents 
Yds. 


Total 
Yds. 


Feats 
Lbe . 


2 


3 


:* 


PARTII 


: 


( 10 ) in Part IV , for the beadings and columns 


" Variety 


Couse 

Civil 
Вxports 
- (a ) (b ) 


Medium 
Civil Exports 


Fine 
Civil Esports 


Superine 
CiviBxport: 

(b ) 


Fents 
Civil Esport 


" 


Total 
(3 -3-4 -56 ) 
Civil Esports 

) (b ) 


Packing for 

other 
purpose 

(b ) 


Total 
( 7 - 8 ) 


(a ) 


(b ) 


(b ) 


@ ) 


(b 


(@ ) 
9 


3 


the following shall be substituted , amely : 


" Variety 


Coarse 


Lower Medium Higher Medium 


Fine 


Superfine 


Fents 


Totel 
( 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 -6 - 7) 


Packing for 

others 
purposes 


Total 
( 8 - 9 ) 


► 


2 


3 


3 


4 


_ 


6 


7 


_ 


10 


Sec.3(H)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,18802583 


11. In form CST No. E , 

( ) in Part II, for the beading and columns . 


" 


Variety 


Variety 


Course 


Mection 

Yds . 


Yde , 


File 
Yds. 


Superfine 

Ydo. 


Toni 
Yds , 


the following shall be substituted , monety 


Variety 


Coarse 

Yds . 


Lower Medium 


Higher Medium 

Yh 


Fine 


Yus 


Total 
Yds. 


Superior 

Yds . 


Yds. 


1 


3 


. 


(ū ) in Part III, for the headings ud counts , 


Coarse 


Fide 


Total 


Medium 

Yde 


Yds . 


Yas . 


Sapcofinc 
Yos . 


Yds. 


TE 


2584THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880 


The following shall be postilated , namely > 


Coarse 

Yds . 


Lower Medium 

Ydo , 


Higber Metium 

Yds . 


Fine 
Yd . , 


Superfina 


Yds, 


Totat 
Yds . 


2 


_ 


3 


[No, 2 (12 )- T (A ) 158- 1). 
V . V NENE , Under Secy . 


PARTII 


Suc. 3 (ii THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802585 
= - -- - - - 

New Delhi, the 20th November 1968 
S . O . 2461 .- - The following rules amended by the Hyderabad Oils and Seeds 
Exchange, Ltd ., Hyderabad , in exercise of the powers conferred on it by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 9A or the Forward Contracts (Regulation ) Act , 1952 ( 74 
of 1952 ), and approved by the Central Government are hereby published as 
required by sub - section ( 2 ) of that section , namely : 
In the said Rules , 

( 1 ) For Article 60 , the following shall be substituted, namely : 
“ B0. The Board of Directors shall consist of not more than Afteen 

directors inclusive of the President and Vice President and shall 

be constituted as under : 
( a ) Ten directors shall be elected by the authorized representatives of 

members of whom seven shall be authorized representatives of 
members from the Dealers Panel and three shall be authorized 

representatives of members from the Crushers Panel, 
( b ) Not more than four Directors appointed by the Central Government, 

one of whom to represent the Central Government and the others 
to represent interests not directly represented by membership of 
the Exchange , as set out in sub - clause (b ) of clause (2 ) of section 6 

of the Forward Contracts ( Regulation ) Act, 1952 . 
(C ) Not more than one director , whether a member or not, co - opted by 

the Board , if it deems it fit and necessary . " ; 
( 2 ) For Article 62, the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" 62 ( 1 ) . At the first Annual General Meeting of the Exchange to be held 

after these Articles come into force , all the elected directors shall 
retire and directors shall be elected in accordance with the pro 

visions of clause ( a ) of Article 60 . 
( 2 ) At the subsequent Annual General Meetings , one director from the 

Crushers Panel and two directors from the Dealers Panel shall 
retire. The provisions contained in sub -section ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) 
of section 256 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , shall apply 

to the election of directors in place of the retiring directors. 
( 3 ) The directors appointed by the Central Government shall hold office 

for the period for which they are appointed . 
( 4 ) The director co- opted by the Board shall retire at every Annual 
General Meeting along with the retiring elected directors" . 

[No. 33 (25 ) - TMP / FMC / 58. ] 
New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
8 . 0 . 2462 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 26 of the Forward 
Contracts (Regulation ) Act, 1952 ( 74 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the powers exercisable by it under section 11 of the said Act may 
also be exercised by the Secretary , Forward Markets Commission , Bombay . 

[ No. 32 (17)- TMP / FMC / 58.3 

K . V . VENKATACHALAM Jt. Secy . 
(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 
S . O . 2463 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Com 
mişsions of Inquiry Act (No. 60 of 1952 ) the Central Government hereby extends 
upto the end of September , 1959 , the period of time within which the Commission 
of Inquiry appointed by the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance , 
Department of Economic Affairs by notification being S . R . O . 2993 dated the 
11th December . 1956 , as amended by the subsequent notification being S . R .O . 464 
dated 11 - 2 -57, shall inquire into the matters specified in the notifcation first 
mentioned above and report to the Central Government. 

Ordered that the Order be published in the Gazette of India for public 
information . 

[No. 16 ( 16 ) -Admn / 58 .] 
D . L , MAZUMDAR , Secy . 


BB 


(Indian nandardi kastitation ) 
New Delhi, the 17th Nocember 1958 


Sms 


S . O . 2464 --- In pursuance of sub -regulations (2) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standards , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been established 
during the period ist to Isth November 1958 , 


THE SCHEDULE 


SL 


No. and title of the Indian Standard established 


No. 


No, and title of the Indian Standard or Stand 
Ards, if any , superseded by the Dew Indian 

Standard 


Brief Particulars 


( 1) 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


2486THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,1880 


I IS : 493 - 1958 Specification for Machinery and IS : 493- 1954 Specification for Machinery and 
Spindle Oils ( Amended ) 

Spindle Oils 


This standard prescribes the requirements and 

the methods of test for machinery and spindle 
oils for various types of lubricating services 
to which these oils are employed . It does 
not cover oils compounded with fixed oils 
Or soaps . Price Re. 1 . 00 ) 


2 


IS : 1175 -1957 Methods for Grading and Classi- IS : 13 - 1949 Methods for Grading Processed This Standard describes a standard system of 
fication of Muscovite Mica Blocks , Thins and Mica Tentative), and 

grading and classifying muscovite mica block 
Films, 

IS : 14 - 1949 Classification of Processed Mus - thins and films according to size , visual qua 
covite Mica ( Tentative) 

lities , and presence of structural imperfections 
(Both cancelled under S . O , 603 dated 26th ( Price Re. 1 . 50 ) 

April 1958) , 


3 


IS : 1180 - 1958 Specification for Outdoor Type 

Three -Phase Distribution Transformers Up 
to and Including 100 kVA II KV 


This standard covers the requirements and 
tests for oil- immersed , self - cooled , three 
phase , double wound , outdoor type distribu 
tion transformers, with Class A insulation 
of capacides up to and including 100 kVA , 
for use on systems with nominal voltages 
up to and including II EV and a frequency 
of so cycles per second (Price Rs. 5 : 00 ) 


[PARTII 


4 IS : 1183- 1957 Specification for Density Hydro 

mcters for Use in Milk 


This standard covers the requirements for den 

sity hydrometers for use in milk , adjusted 
to indicate . density over a range 1 . 025 to 

1 . 035 & per m od 1 . 015 to 1 . 025 & per mil 
when read in a liquid medium having a tem 
perature of 27° C and a surface tension of 
50 dynes per centimetre , the reading being 
taken at the intersection of the level liquid 
surface and the stem , (Price Rs. I 50 ) . 
This standard prescribes constructional details 
and other particulars of handloom cotton 
Madras check . (Price Re. 1 : 00 ) 
This standard gives recommendations on the 
general considerations which should guide 
the selection of grinding wheels for different 
applications. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


$ IS : 1247- 1958 Specification for Handloom 

Cotton Madras Check 
6 IS : 1249- 1958 Recommendations for Selection 

of Grinding Wheels 


7 IS : 1254 - 1958 Specification for Corrugated 

Aluminium Sheet 


This standard covers the general and specific 
requirements , such as profile , dimensions, 
finish , etc . for corrugated aluminium sheet 
meant for industrial building and general 
purposes. Price Rs. 1 : 50 ) . 


See.% (ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER29,1958/AGRAHAYANA8,18802587 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available, for sale, with the Indian Standards Institution , " MANAK BHAVAN " , 9 Mathura Road , New 
Delhi- 1 and also at its Branch Offices at (i) 40 / 40A Cawasji Patel Street, Fort , Bombay - I , (ü ) P - II, Mission Ror Extension , Calcutta - I and (ii) 2421 , 
First Line Beach , Miadras- I . 


(No. MDC / 11( 4 ) ] 


TRU 


m 


2 .688 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAFIAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 
= = = 

= - = - - = - = 
New Delhi, the 21st November 1958 


S . O . 2465 . — In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1) of regulation 8 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards 
Institution hereby notifles that five licences , particulars of which are given in the 
Schedule hereto annexed , have been renewed for a period of one year . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Period of Validity 
S1, Licence No, - 
No, and Date From To 


- 


Name and Add - Articlc Process 
ress of the Li- covered by the 
çengec 

licence 


Relevant 
Indian Standard 


Do. 


CM / L - 34 16 - 11 - 1958 15 - 11 - 1959 The National Hard Drawn IS : 282 - 1951 Specifi 
4 - 11- 1957 

Inaulated Cable Copper Solid cation for Hard 
Co. of India and Stranded Drawn Copper Solid 
Ltd . , 67 Stephen Conductors. and Standard Circu 
House , 

las Conductors for 
4 Dalhousic 

Overhead Power 
Square , Calcutta . - I . 

Transmission Pur 

poscs ( Tentative) . 
2 CM /L -35 Do. 

Do. 

Bare Anncale 1 IS : 396 - 1953 Speci 
4 -11 - 1957 

Copper Wire fication for Bare An 

ncaled High - Con 
ductivity Copper 
Wire for Electrical 
Machinery and Ap 

paratus ( Tentative ). 
3 CM /L - 36 Do. Do. Do. Hard Drawn IS : 398 - 1993 Speci 
4 - II - 1957 

Aluminium and fication for Hard 
Steel- Cored Drawn Stranded 
Aluminium Aluminium and 
Conductors for Steel - Cored Alu 
Overhead Power minjum Conductors 
Transmission for Overhead Power 
Purposes . Transmission Pur 

poses ( Tentative ) . 
4 CM / L - 37 16 -11- 1958 15 - 11 - 1959 The National Rubber - Ingula IS :434 - 1953 Speci 
4 - II - 1957 

Insulated Cable ted Cables and fication for Rubber 
Co . of India Flexiblc Cords Insulated Cables and 
Ltd . , 

for Electric Flexible Cords for 
67, Stephen Power and Li- Electric Power and 
House , 4 

ghting ( for Lighting (for Work - 
Dalhousie Working Vol ing Voltages Upto 
Square , 

tages Upto and and Including 
Calcutta - I. 

Including 11 kV), 11kV) ( Tentative ). 
5 CM /L - 38 16 - 11 - 1958 19 -11- 1959 Do . Cotton - Covered IS :450 - 1953 Speci 
4 - II - 1957 

High - Conduc - fication for Cotton 
tivity Annealed Covered High Con 
Round Copper ductivity Annealed 
Wire , 

Round Copper Wire . 


[ No . MDC / 12 ( 105 ).) 

C . N . MODAWAL , 
Deputy Director (Marks ). 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & FUEL 

(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 
S . O . 2466 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
4 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act , 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , the Contral 


SEC. § (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802589 


- 


- - - 


Government hereby appoints Shri G . S . Jabbi, Additional Chief Inspector of 
Mines , as a member of the Coal Board with effect from the 20th November , 1958 
vice Shri S . S . Grewal, Chicf Inspector of Mines in India , procccded on leave 
with from that date . 

(No. C5- 1 ( 22 ) / 58 .] 
CHHEDI LAL , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

(Deptt , of Agriculturo ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi-2, the 5th November 1958 
S . O . 2467 . — In pursuance of the appropriate provisions of the Indian Cotton 
Cess Act, 1923 ( 14 of 1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to nominate the 
following persons to be members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee , 
Bombay , for a period of three years with effect from 18t April, 1958 : 


S . No. 


Name and address 


Section 


1. Shri K . N . Palaniswamy Gounder, M .L . A ., Tiruppur 
2 . Shri G . K . Devarajulu , Managing Agent, The Lakshmi 

Mulls Ltd ., Coimbatore . 


. . 
. . 


4 ( viii ) 

4 ( v ) 


. 


[No. 1- 12 / 58 -Com .II.] 
AJUDHA PRASADA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 17th November 1958 
8 . O . 2488. — Dr. K . M . Gandhi, L . D .Sc., Dental Surgeon , Bombay, has been nomi 
nated by the Government of Bombay as a member of the Dental Council of India 
under clause ( e ) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) with effect 
from the 17th November , 1958 . 

[No. F .6 -7 /58 - M .I.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 
$. 0 . 2469 . — Dr. K . M . Singh , Additional Dental Surgeon , Patna Medical 
College Hospital, Patna , has been re -nominated as a member of the Dental 
Council of India by the Government of Bihar under clause ( e ) of section 3 of 
the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) with effect on and from the 27th November , 
1958 

[No. F . 6 -7 /88-M .I.) 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

( Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 8th November 1958 
S . O . 2470 . - In pursuance of clause (ii ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 1 of the 
Indian Merchant Shipping (Load Line) Rules , 1934 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints the Norwegian Ships Classiflcation Society Det Nerske Veritas to be 


2500 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 

- - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
An Assigning Authority for the purpuse cf the said Rules in respect of 8 .& . 
Jagjyoti - 0 , No. 199129 , registered in Bombay. 

[No. 42 -MA (6) / 57.] 
S . K . VENKATACHALAM , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

Iew Delhi, the 21st November 1958 
$ . 0 . 2471, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hreto annexed in the 
State of Madhya Pradesh for a public purpose , being a purpose connected with 
the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensa 
tion to such persona; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 ( 44 of 1964 ), it is 
natifled that the Central Government has decided to acquire , and hereby acquires , 
the said evacuee properties . 


SCHEDULE 


Sl. Particulars of the 
No. Eyacuce Properties. 


Name of the town and locality 
village in which the property is 

situated . 


Name of Evacuce . 


3 


I Plot 
2 Khander 
3 Patore . 

Patore . 
Plot 
House . 

Khander 
8 Plot 

House . 
IO Plot 

House . 
12 Plot . 


بمندهمهاودمج 


II 


13 


Plot 


. 


. 


14 House , 
15 Plot 
16 House , 
17 Plot 


Mam . K . Bazár , Lashkar. Munuru Khan Rahim Khan 
, Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar, AbdulMajid 
· Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar. Babu son of Abdulah 

Hanumen Nagar , Lashkar . Ramzan Ali Bux 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar . Chote Khan son of Imam Khan 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar , Ismail son of Nazir Humai 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar , Imam Bux 
Kamigran , Gwalior 

Ahmad Sher Khan 
Gendiwali Sarak , Lashkar, Chunc Khan son of Nathe Khan 
Bada Kasim Khan , Leshkar . Mohmmad Sadik Hamal 
Tale Ki Bazaria , Lashkar. Hussain Beg son of Noor Beg 
Mama Ka Bazar , Lashkar . Wali Mohmmad son of Nabi 

Mohmmad 
Bada Kasim Khan , Lashkar. . Nathc Khan son of Rehman 

Khan 
Inglc KeGoth , Lashkar . 

Wafati gon of Panie Khan 
Hayder Ganj, Gwalior . 

Mohmodi Beg 
Mama Ka Bazar , Lashkar Farman Ali 
Hayder Ganj, Gwalior 

Ahmad Nabi, Mohmmad Nabi , 

sons of Haji Ali dad Khan 
Haweli Pichwara , Lashkar. Wazir Mohmmad 

Hawali Pichwara , Lasbkar . Shahdat Khan 
. Thorat KiGoth , Lashkar . Aziz Ahmad son of Hafiz Fazal 

Rehman 
, Chota Ki Bazaria, Lashkar. Azizul Rehman son of Hafizul 

Rehman 
Chota KiBazaria . Lashkar. Ashraf Ali son of Asod Ali 
Near Gwalior Tolkies, Lashkar. Illahai Bux 
Kasai Khana , Morar. 

Ali Bux son of Nabi Bux 
Bahra Şantar, Morar. 

Mohmmad Din 
Tara Ganj, Lashkar. 

Shrimati Nasiban 
Tara Ganj, Lashkar. 

Rafiulah son of Niyaz Khan 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar . Wali Mohmmod Chidu Khan 
Loha Garh , Lashkar , 

Lal Khan 
Madi Ka Bazar, Lashkar. , Kadar son of Annu 

Magaleshwar, Gwalior. . . Yasin Khan 
, Khatik Mohalla , Morar . , Halka son of Chote 


18 House 
19 Khander 
20 House . 


. 


. 


21 Two Houses 
22 House . 

Khandar 
House . 
House , 
Plot 

Plot , 
28 House . 

House , 
30 Khandar 
31 Plot . 
32 House . 


. 


29 


. 


. 


SEO . 9 ( i)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 


2561 


1 


2 


boblar 


33 House , 
34 House . 
35 Plot . 
36 Plot . 
37 Khandac 
38 Khandar 
39 House , 
40 House . 
41 Hotißc . 
42 House . 

House 
44 

House 
45 House 
46 HOUAC . 


47 
48 


House 

Khandar 
49 

House . 
50 

House . 
51 

HOC . 
52 

Howe . 
House . 


53 


Fozdar Mohalla , Lashkar. Abdul Satar 
, Danoli Lashkar , 

Illabai Shah 
Bhaw Ka Bazar, Lashkar . . Chote Khan gon of Niyaz Khan 
Jiwaji Ganj, Lashkar. 

Mehboob Khan 
Kampoo , Munshiyan , Lashkar. Gafar Satar 

Sindhe Ki Chawani, Lashkar. Nabi Sher 
, Sarak Saria , Gwalior. 

Dayam Klian 
Janak Ganj, Lashkar . 

Mchboob Beg 
Hanuman Nagar, Lashkar. Harsu Gafur Bai 
Kagai Khana , Morar. 

Basarąt son of Bulakhi 
Risala Bazar, Morar . 

Basarat son of Bulakhi, 
Bada Kasim Khan , Lashkar. . Abdul Rashid Khan 
Bala Bai ka Bazar , Lashkar, . Syed Fathe son of Ali Syed 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar. Mohmmad Hussain son of 

Sadar Khan 
Ramtepura , Gwalior. . Niamat Ali 
Patpura , Gwalior , . . Najib Khan 
Naya Sarafa , Lashkar, . Lukman Mohmmad Khan 
Dholi Bhawa Ka Pul, Lashkar . Babu son of Niaz Mohmmad 
Kotikar , Morar. . 

Chand Khan 
Ghass Mandi, Gwalior. . Bashiram wife of Amira 
Jamna Dai Morar . . . Abdul Razak sor of Wali 

Mohmmad 
Rathkhana , Madho Ganj, Lash - Mubarak Ali 

kor. 
Fozdar Mohalla , Lashkar. . Mari Begum 
- Khirki Mohella , Gwalior. Mobmodali Beg 
. Hem Singh Ki Parade, Lashkar. Ramzan Khan 
. Fozdar Mohalla , Lashkar . Ahemed Bishti 
· Noor Ganj, Gwalior . 

, Chotey Khan 
. Naya Sarafa , Lashkar . 

Lukman son of Keman Ali 
, Noor Ganj, Gwalior . 

. Ibrahim . 
Noor Ganj, Gwalior 

Roshan 
Rampatpura , Gwalior 

Nahar Khan Rahmat Ullah 
Patpura , Gwalior . . . Nahar Khan 
Jamna Dai, Morar , 

Sheikh Kallar 
Dulpur , Morar . 

Wazira 
Naya Sarafa, Lashkar. . Mohmmad Shafi 
Hanuman Nagar , Lashkar , Mohmmod Hussain Khap 
Tara Ganj, Lashkar , 

Issmail 
Dholi Bua ka Pul, Lashkar . , Baboo 
Naya Sarafa , Lashkar . , , Ashrdjemi Shan 
Mama Ka Bazar , Lashkar. . Musammat Akhtari Begum 
Fojdar Mohalla , Danoli, Lashkar. ShrimatiGohar Jehan 
Madi Ka Bazar, Gwalior . Mohmmad Chote 


54 House , 


55 Housc . 
56 House . 

House . 

House 
59 Housc 
60 House 

House - 
House , 
House . 
Khander 
Housc . 
Hougc . 
House . 
House , 
House . 

Housc . 
71 Hovec , 
72 House . 
73 House 
74 House , 


(Nr. 1(1220)/ 57 / Comp. III/Prop .) 


RAJA LAL GUPTA, P . C . S ., Under Secy . 


(Omor of the Chlef Sottlement Commissionor ) 

New Delhi, the 21$ t November 1958 


S . O . 1472 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Saction 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 4 of 
1964 ) , the Central Government hereby conters upon Shri Kartar Singh , Assistant 
Custodian ( Rural.) Delhi, the powers of Assistant Settlement Oficer for the pur 
pose of performing the functions assigned to such Assistant Settlement Officers 
by or under the said Act. 


(No. 8 /51/ 58 - Adma . ( R ) . ] 


2502 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 


S . O . 2478 .-- In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (a ) of sub -sec 
tion ( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilita 
tion ) Act No . 44 of 1954, the Central Government hereby appoints all Officers for 
the time being holding the posts of Managing Officer grade II under the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner , Lucknow , Jullunder , Delhi, Patna , Patiala and Indore 
as Managing Officers for the custody, management and disposal of Compensa 
tion pool 

[No. 16 ( 8 ) -Admn . ( Prop ) / 58. ] 
M , L . PURI, Settlement Commissioner 

& Ex - Officio , Under Secy . 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 
S . O . 2474 .- In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub - section 
( 1 ) of Section 8 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 
Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) I, L , J . Johnson , I. C . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , do 
hereby authorise Shri K . L . Anand, Assistant Settlement Officer , Rohtak , to make 
payment of compensation to displaced persons, out of the Compensation Pool, by 
transfer of allottable property or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 in addition 
to the Officers already authorised vide this Office Order No. F . 4 ( 6 ) Comp - II / 
57, dated 10th October 1967, 19th December , 1957, 27th February , 1968 and Orders 
of even number dated 22nd July , 1958, 9th August, 1958 and 28th October , 1958 , 
respectively . 

[ No . F . 4 ( 6 ) Comp. II /57- Policy -I.] 


S . O . 2475 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
Section 8 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 
(44 of 1954 ) I, L . J . Johnson , I. C . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , do hereby 
authorise the under mentioned Officers in the Bombay Region , to make payment 
of compensation to displaced persons, out of the Compensation Pool, by transfer 
of allottable property or otherwise , in accordance with the provisions of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 in addition to the 
Officer already authorised vide this Office Order No , 4 ( 6 ) Comp. 11 /57, dated 27th 
February , 1958 . 


1 . Shri Narain Tejumal, Setttlement Officer, Bombay . 
2 . Shri A . H . Malkani, Settlement Officer, Bombay . 
3 . Shri Jamaitrai Gobindram , Settlement Officer , Rajkot. 
4 . Shri R . L . Mansukhani, Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
5 . Shri K . C . Idiculla , Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
6 . Shri Chamanlal Punj, Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
7. Shri K . S . Bhasin , Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
8 . Shri Devindra Nath , Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
9. Shri C . J . Motwani, Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
10 . Shri S . A . Kaptan , Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
11 . Shri B , M , Telgeri, Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
12. Shri Trilok Singh , Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
13 . Shri B . M . Kundani, Assistant Settlement Officer , Bombay . 
14 . Shri P . H . Jagtiani, Assistant Settlement Officer, Bombay . 
15 . Shri J. C . Ahluwalia , Assistant Settlement Officer , Rajkot . 
16 . Shri D . S . Sharda , Assistant Settlement Officer , Rajkot. 

(No. F . 4 (6 ) Comp.II /57- Policy -I. ] 
L . J. JOHNSON , Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


- 


SEC , 3 (11) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802593 
- - - 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 19th November 1958 
S . O , 2476 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 
of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 ( 48 of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 
1180, dated the 11th June, 1958 , namely : 
In the said notification , for the entry " ( 2) Raviansh Kumar " , the entry 
" ( 2 ) L , P , Sinha " shall be substituted . 

[No. PF - 1/ 1 ( 11 ) / 58 .] 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1958 
S . O . 2477 / PW /Mines / Rules / Am . 1 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub -sections ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and (4 ) of section 26 , read with section 24 , of the Payment 
of Wages Act, 1936 ( 4 of 1936 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendments to the Payment of Wages (Mines ) Rules , 1956 , the same 
having been previously published as required by sub -section (5 ) of the said 
section 26 , namely : 

In the said rules for sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 6 , the following shall be substituted , 
namely : - - 

Every such register shall be maintained in English or in Hindi or 
either in the language of the district in which the mine is situated 
or the language understood by a majority of persons employed In 
the mine ." 

[No. Fac. 49 ( 19 ) /57 .] 
P . D . GAIHA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th November 1958 
S . O . 2478 . -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 
PRESENT: 

Shri E . Krishna Murti, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal. 

3rd November, 1958 . 
I. D . No . 155 OF 1958 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited . 


AND 


Their workmen . 
Mr. Om Prakash Gupta - for the Bank . 
Messrs. H . L . Parvana, H . L . Puri, and H . R . Khullar — for workmen . 

AWARD 
By G .O . No. SO - LRII - 10 ( 2 ) /57, dated the 10th July , 1958 , the industrial dis 
pute, between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited , 
and their workmen , has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under 
Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 

2 . The term of reference is as follows: 

Whether the bank employees, whose particulars are given below , should be 
treated as " workmen " or not for the purposes of the award of the All India 
Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) Bombay constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S .R O 35 , dated the 5th 


250 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 (PART 


January , 1952 , as modifled under section 3 of the Industrial Disputes (Banking 
Companies ) Decision Act , 1955 ( 41 of 1955 ) , and also to what relief they are 
entitled ? 


Serial 
No. 


Name of the employee 


Designation 


Where employed 


V 


33 


IO 
II 
12 


2 ) 


2 ) 


2 ) 


T8 


NN 


ور 


Shri Ha: bang Lal 

· Accountant . - Central Office 
K . N . Bhandari , 

M . L . Kampur . 
3 G , L . Talwar . 

Sukh Dev . 
M . R . Suri 

Supervisor 
Harikishan Lal Kapur 
G , P . Gupta , 
Sant Ram Chadha 

untant 
K . K . Mehra , 

ccountant 
>> R . B . Saxena . 
Baldev Krishan Sharma 

Accountant . . Dist. Magager. 
Chuni Lal Vilh . 

Pakistan Office , 
Sewa Ram 

Provident Fund Deptt . 
Vijay Singh 

Supervisor : 
Ramji Lal . 
Chirjit Singh 

Accountant Staff Deptt . 
Shanti Nath Presher 
Asa Nand Dhingra , 
Krishan Kumar Chopra 

Supervisor . . 
Ved Parkash Puri 
Jagdish Chand Jaitly . 

Accountant , . 
Kamal Kishore Kakkar 

Supervisor , 
Mohinder Kumar Jain 
Gopi Chand Mahne 
Shiv Narain Gupta , 
Rajinder Nath Chopra . 

Accountant . Board & General Deptt. 
Bal Mokand Arya (Supr. on 1 - 4 - 54 ) 
Chella Ram . . 

Branch Office Civil 
. 

Lincs , Delhi. 
» Kundan Lal , , , , Supervisor . . 
• Jai Chand 

Head Cashier 

33 

(Supervisor cadre ) 
, D . D . Luthra . 

Accountant , Forcign Exchange 

Deptt. 
T . N . Chopra , 

. . Supervisor . . . 
S , R , S . Gulati 
Aschari Lal . 

Accountant . , D . M . Northern Circle . 
D . C . Kapur 
Ram Lal Sharma 
Roshan Lal Kapoor 
Kesho Lal Agarwal 

Northern Circle. 
Kuldip Raj Chopra 
H . K . Das Sharma 

Supervisor 

visor . . 
R . S . D . Malhotra 
Raj Rup Singh . 

Accountant . Loans Deptt . 
P . N . Malhotra . 
Ram Kishan Madan 
Tara Chand , 
Satya Paul Khanna 

Supervisor . 
M , L . Dhawan . 

Accountant , . Inspection Deptt . 
N . N Uppgl . 
B . L . Talwar . 
M . L . Mehra . 
R . S . Tandon . 
R . N . Chopra . 
M . L . Aggarwal 
K . L . Kapuria . 
Y . N , Awasthi . 
T . N . Mehrotra . 
H . S . Giani . 


رد 


SEC . $ (31)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802595 


Serial 


Name of the employee 


Designation 


Where employed 


No. 


. 


Accountant 


D . M .U .P . 

Office . 


Circle s 


in Ghan 


Offg . Accur. 
Accountant , 


Law Department, 


untant 


59 Shri Dharam Vir Kehar . . 

Ghanshyam Swarup . 
Madan Lal Khosla . 
Behari Lal Kanwara . 
Mitter Bilag . 
Ved Parkash . 
Harbans Lal Anand 
Ram Rup Chaturyedi . 
P . C . Kochhar . 
Amrit Lal Proothi 
P . L . Khosla 
Ram Lal Ramdas 
Mehr Chand . 
Devi Chand Suri 
Lajya Ram Aggarwal . 
Madan Lal Kapahi 
Shri Lal Manchanda . 
Krishan Lal Sharma . . 
Kashi Nath Vali 
Vishwa Mitter Mehta . 
Ram Richhpal . . 
Girish Chander Srivastaya . 
Roshan Lal Puri 
V . P . Kheshtrapal 
J . C . Chopra . 
Sohan Lal . 
Amar Nath Gupta 
Hans Raj Puri 


D . M . Central Circle s 

Office , 


. 


1 


Supervisor 
. Accountant 

Supervisor 


Economic Section 
• Property Deptt, 
, Stationery Deptt. 


. 


untant 


Branch Office , 
Chandni Chowk , 


Supervisor 


Ved Parkash Wadhwa 
Hem Chand Jain 
Chandar Shekhar 
N . B . Bhatnagar 
Balu Ram 
Satcharan Seth . 
Ram Niwas 
Ganga Ram Seth 
Ascharjlal Kumar 
Birbal Chopra . 
Bunwari Lal 
Dharampal Mehta 
Gurbax Singh . 
Ram Dhan 
Shamsunder Khanna , 
Sita Ram . 
Sham Lal 
Ram Narain Kohli 
Badrinath Sharma 


Office Supervisor , 


102 
103 


Supervisor 


104 


TOS 


Teller . 
Supervisor . 
Cashier Incharge 


. 
, Branch Office Chandni 

Chowk , 
. 


тоб 


Adishwar Prasad 


Accountant . 


, Sadar Bazar Branch , 


Supervisor 


. 


. 


Аннннннннннн 

munu 


Ram Labhaya Kapur , 
Prem Nath Kapur 
Om Prakash Chopra . 
Ravindar Nath Malhotra 
Gwerdhan Dags Luthra 
Lakshmi Chand Gupta 
Dulichand Gupta 
D . R . Madhok . 
K . N . Iyer 
R . L . Anand 
R . P . Garg 
M . L . Wadhwa 
D . R . Chabar . 


. Minto Road Branch 


Asstt . Manager 
Accountant 
Supervisor , 


I17 
II8 
119 


y 


2596 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 
Serial Name of the employee 

Designation Where employed 


No. 


. 


. Supervisor 


Minto Road Branch 


. 


120 Shri Bhola Nath 
1213 M . L . Bhalla . 
122 

P . S . L , Narayanam 
123 

Ramlal Suri 


2 ) 


. 


Accountant 
Supervisor 


. 
. 


. Şubzimandi Branch , 

Delhi, 
. 


I24 
125 
126 
127 
128 


Pannala ] 
Durga Dags Puri 
Kishorilal Puri . 
Balraj Madhus . 
Lekh Raj Şuteja 
Jagwant Rai 
T . N . Chopra . 


....... 


I29 


130 


KashmiriGate Branch 


Accountant 
Supervisor 


Office . 


131 


, 


, 


134 


135 


3 ) 


136 


• 


, Regal Bag. Branch . 


127 


13 


Accountant 
Supervisor 

Supervisor 
· Accountant 

Supervisor 


. 


................ 


intant 


. 
. Naya Bazar Office. 
. 

Tropical Building. 


143 
144 


Custodian Safc 

Deposit Vault. 
- Accountant , 


147 


. 


. Ajmere Gate Extn . 

Branch . 


180r 


. 


Supervisor 
Supervisor 


Fountain Branch . 


Inderjit Gombu . 
132 

R . M . Mehta , 
B . D . Gupta . 
Jas Raj Chona 
K , L , Manchanda 
Gauri Shanker Mehra 
Bharat Prakash , 

Sada Nand Sapra 
139 

Dharambir Banga 
140 

Indersen Minocha 
141 

Kishanlal Kharbanda 
142 

Şom Datt . 
R . K . Bhanot 

Mangal Das 
145 

K . S . Puri 
146 G . L . Sachdev , 

„ J. R . Chopra 
148 Dev Raj Vig . 

Jai Kishan Garg 
150 Ram Gopal Malhotra . 
ISI » 

B . K . Marwaha , 
Maya Ram Aggarwal 
H . S . Sehgal . 

Shamgunder Talwar 
155 Indersain Mincho 

Som Nath Ahuja 

M . Mohanlal Chopra . 
158 Mrs , Shobha Rain 

K . L . Agarwal , 

Hari Singh 
161 P . K . Gupta 
162 S . P . Jain , 

S . L . Sarna 
Mr. Raja Ram Khanna 

H , D , Sriwastaya 

R . K . Malik 
167 3 

Ram Titrath 
168 

Sada Nand . . 
» Mohanlal Hurie , . 
170 Hari Chand Sharma . 
171 Mr. Harbans Lal Malik . 
172 > S. N . Shivpuri , 

, V . D . Vilj , 

Harkishanlal Bhatia 
Amar Nath Mehta 
Shantilal Malik . 

T , N . Vohra , 
178 » Suraj Narain 


HHHHHHHHHHHH 


2 


11 


uuu 


Accountant . 
Supervisor 
Accountant 
Supervisor . 
Accountant 
Supervisor . 


..................... 


. Jangpura Branch . 

Lodi Road Office . 
: Gurdwara Road Office 


....... 


. 


. 


- Daryaganj Office. 
. 


) 


1 


.... 


• Asst. Manager 
. Accountant , 
Supervisor 

Asst . Manager 

Accountant , 
· Supervisor . 

Accountant . 
. Supervisor . 


. 


- Queensway Branch 

Office . 
. 
. 
Khari Baoli Branch 

Office , 
. 


. 


. 


. 


9 ) 


mnvt 


.... 


12 


. 


Accountant . 
Supervisor , 


Chowri Bazar Branch 


. 


. 
. 


Sec. $ (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802597 


Serial 


Name of the employec 


Designation 


Where employed 


No. 


• Supervisor 


. 


. Chawri Bazar Branch 


Accountant . 


Mr. Yudhvirshtar Lal . 
180 » Day Nand . 
18I , K . S . Bharati 

Joti Prashad 
» Banarsi Das Gupta 
, B . Ç . Bansal 
» L . R . Vali , 
» A . D . Sabharwal . 


........ 


Supervisor 
Accountant 


. 


. 

Paharganj Branch . 
. Bank 
Bank 

Street Karol 

Street Karol 
bagh , Branch . 
. 


, 


R . C . Aurora 


. 


Supervisor 


. 


. 


Clock Tower Delhi. 


UNI 


Rajinder Ajmni . 

Deshpal Chopra . 
190 » J. D . Jain . . 
191 , K . C . Gárg 

, S . D . Sachdeva . 

3 B . N . Gulati 
194 Shri Sat Pal Verma , 


....... 


1 ) 


2 


Accountant 
• Supervisor 


. 


Patelnagar Office . 
Khan Market, Karol 

bagh , Branch , 


3 . The case of the workmen is that the 194 employees of the Bank , whose 
names are given in the Schedule to the reference are all workmen , who are 
entitled to the benefits under the Bank Award , that the employees, designated as 
Supervisors , Accountants, Assistant-Managers , and Departmental Incharges are 
called upon to discharge duties of higher clerical nature, that they do routine 
work , making calculations, comparing and checking the work done by the junior 
clerks, that they have been mostly drawn from the lower clerical ranks, that 
these several categories have been carrying on clerical duties , that despite the 
requests and representation of the employees concerned through their Union , the 
management did not implement the provisions of the Bank Award in the case of 
Supervisors and Accountants , that the management intended to evade imple 
mentation of the Award in respect of these categories by introducing better 
grades and better scales of pay , that a number of Supervisors and Accountants 
were forced to declare in favour of the scales of pay , and the other conditions 
offered by the Bank , that all the employees in question should be held to be 
" workmen ” , and all the benefits under the Award should be allowed to them , 


4 . The contention on behalf of the Bank is , that it is not a fact, that the 
clerical staff includes Supervisors and Accountants , and that they perform duties 
of a higher clerical nature , that clerical work is done by the clerks working 
under the Supervisors and Accountants , and the Supervisors and Accountants 
supervise the work of those who are placed under them , that the test of 
directional and controlling power had been regarded as of doubtful validity , that 
the Bank had not violated any provisions of the Bank Award , that the circular 
dated 18th April, 1957 is self explanatory , that it is not true, that the manage 
ment have tricd to evade the implementation of the Award , that there is no bar 
to the introduction of categories of officers , and separate pay - scales and service 
conditions for the same, that it is not true, that any of the employees in the 
terms of reference was put to any pressure or coercion , that a number of 
employees, whose names are mentioned in the list, marked Annexure C , haye 
withdrawn their case , that no dispute arises in their case, that the Bank is prepared 
to cover such of those employees as wish to be covered by the Bank Award , that 
it is not open to such of the workmen , as opt for the Bank scales of pay and 
conditions of service for officers , to claim to be governed by the terms of the 
Bank Award , and that there are no merits in the claim of the workmen . 

5 . The following issues were framed : 


( 1 ) Whether the Bank employees , mentioned in the order of reference , are 

" workmen " within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act ? 
( 2 ) Whether the said employees are entitled to relief, and Service 

Conditions as per the Bank Award ? 
( 3 ) Whether there is no industrial dispute at all in respect of certain 

employees of the Bank , as contended by the management? 


2598THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


( 4 ) Whether the management is entitled to ask the employees to choose 

and exercise their option in regard to the conditions of service, as 
in the Bank Award , or according to the conditions of service of the 

Bank ? 
( 5 ) To what relief are the employees in question under the reference 

entitled ? 
Issues No. 1 to 3 

6 . This is a dispute , between the employers in relation to the Punjab National 
Bank Limited , and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule . There are the names of 194 employees contained in the order of 
reference , 

7 . Originally a statement of claim was filed by the All India Punjab National 
Bank Employees Federation on behalf of the workmen . Subsequently , the 
Association of the Punjab National Bank Employees filled a petition to be 
impleaded as a party to the reference on the ground, that the said Association 
also represented some of the employees. The said Association was impleaded 
as a party to these proceedings by order dated 11th September 1958 , and a claim 
statement was also fled by the said Association . 

8 . Both the Association and the Federation have put - forward identical con 
tentions in this matter . 

9 . The point, that arises for determination in this proceeding , is, whether the 
employees , whose particulars are given in the order of reference , should be 
treated as " workmen " for the purpose of the Award of the All India Industrial 
Tribunal (Bank Disputes ), and also to what relief they are entitled . 


10 . According to the case of the Union , all the employees, whose names are 
mentioned in the order of reference , are " workmen " . It will be noted , that some 
of them are designated as Accountants , Supervisors , Assistant Managers, etc . 
The case of the workmen is , that, in spite of their being known by this designation , 
they are " workmen " within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, and that 
they are entitled to take advantage of the provisions of the Sastry Award , in 
relation to Bank Disputes . It is asserted on behalf of the workmen , that these 
various employees designated as Supervisors , Accountants , Assistant Managers. 
Departmental Incharges , etc, are called upon to discharge duties of a higher 
clerical nature, that they do routine work , making calculation , comparing and 
checking the work done by the junior clerks, that these employees are drawn 
mostly from the lower clerical ranks on the basis of merit, and that, in these 
circumstances, they are all “ workmen " within the meaning of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , and entitled to take advantage of the provisions of the Bank Award , 
It is the case of the workmen , that the Bank is trying to evade the implementa 
tion of the Award so far as these workmen are concerned . Ext. W / 3 has been 
produced as a copy of the representation made to the management dated 28th 
April, 1956 on behalf of a number of Accountants , Supervisors , and other 
employees of the Bank in this connection , 


11 . The contention of the Bank , is, that it is not a fact, that clerical staff 
includes Supervisors and Accountants , or that they perform duties of a higher 
clerical nature . It is urged before me, that the Bank Award merely lays down , 
that, when any particular employee is doing clerical work , and can be classed 
as a clerk , such employee must be given pay and allowances as fixed under the 
Award . It is denied , that the management ever tried to evade implementation of 
the Sastry Award in the matter of its application to any category, governed by it . 


12 . At the time this matter came on for trial, both parties dispensed with 
oral evidence, and contented themselves by filing documents only. 

13 . On behalf of the workmen , the memoranda , Exts . W / 1 and 2 , were filed in 
this connection . 


14 . During the pendency of this dispute , a number of letters were received by 
this Tribunal from various employees of the Bank , intimating , that they had no 
dispute with the Bank , and that the matter may be dropped so far as these 
individuals were concerned , The Bank has filed a memorandum , Ext. M / 3 . It is 
alleged therein , that ninety ( 90 ) persons have withdrawn their case , and no 
dispute subsists in regard to them . The names of these 90 persons are contained 
in Annexure C , which is annexed to this Award . It is further mentioned by 
the Bank in the said memorandum , Ext: M / 3 , that, if any one of these persons, 
with the exception of the 10 persons, whose names are found below , were to 


SEC. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18202599 


come- forward before this Tribunal and repudiate the withdrawal, the Bank would 
have no objection to the implementation of the Award in their case:-- - 

" 11. R . B . Saxena. 
22. J. C . Jaitly . 
29. Chela Ram . 
35 . Ascharaj Lal. 
67 . P . C . Kochhar . 
78 , Vishwa Mitter Mehta . 
114 . D . R . Madhok . 
146 . G . L . Sachdeva , 
164 , Rala Ram Khanna. 

183 . Banarsi Dass Gupta ." 
In proof of the fact that the 90 persons, whose names are found in Annexure C , 
have withdrawn from this reference , the letters written by them have been 
marked , Those contained in the file , Ext. M / 2 , which number 80 , were received 
by post by this Tribunal direct . The remaining 10 sent the letters contained in 
the Ale , Ext. M / 1 , direct to the Bank . We have thus 90 letters from the several 
individuals mentioned in the Annexure C . Each employee has intimated in the 
said letters , that, as he had no dispute with the Bank in respect of this pro 
ceeding , he requcsted , that the Tribunal may drop the matters in his case . None 
of these persons, who sent the letters contained in Exts . M / 1 and 2 , came- forward 
to repudiate these letters, and state , that they are pressing the claim . Even 
though there is an allegation in the statement of claim Aled by the Federation , 
that the Bank induced these employees to give such letters, as a result of pressure 
and coercion , there is nothing on record to prove , that these letters were given 
by the respective employees otherwise than of their own free will and accord . I 
find , that, so far as the 0 employees, whose names are found in Annexure C 
attached to this award are concerned , there is no dispute between them and the 
Bank , and that no question arises for determination in this proceeding so far as 
these individuals are concerned , and that the matter is dropped as per their 
request . 


15 . The next contention on behalf of the Bank is , that 55 persons, whose names 
are found in Annexure B , desired implementation of the Award , and that the 
Bank had already agreed to the same. Thus the Bank has admitted , that these 
55 persons, whose names are found in Annexure B , are " workmen " , and that 
they are entitled to the benefits of the Award , I find , that the 55 employees , 
whose names are found in Annexure B , are "workmen " , that they are entitled to 
the benefits of the Award , and that the Bank has been willing to implement the 
Award in their case. If in respect of any one of these the Bank Award has not 
been implemented , that is a matter to be separately taken up by them in inde 
pendent and appropriate proceedings. 

16 . The next question is with reference to the rest of the workmen , 


17 . In the written statement of the Bank it is alleged in paragraph 25 , that 
Shri Sada Nand , No. 168 , in the list, is Assistant Manager , and is performing 
duties of a managerial nature, thereby implying, that he was not a workman . 
But in Ext: M / 3 paragraph 3 it is stated , that Shri Sada Nand (No. 168 ) desires 
implementation of the Award , and that the Bank agreed to the same. I And , 
that Shri Sada Nand is a " workman " , and that he is entitled to relief as per the 
provisions of the Bank Award . 


18 . Nextly , it is alleged in paragraph 25 of the written statement on behall 
of the Bank , that Shri K , K . Mehra , No. 10 , was a Chartered Accountant, that he 
is not a " workman " according to the Industrial Disputes Act , that he resigned 
his job in the Bank , and is no more in the Bank s service . There is no evidence 
on his behalf , and there is nothing to prove, that he is a " workman " . I find . 
that there is no satisfactory proof, that Shri K . K . Mehra is a " workman " , or 
that he is entitled to the benefits of the Bank Award, or to implementation of the 
said Award against the Punjab National Bank Limited during the time he was in 
service under the said Bank . 


19 . Nextly , it is alleged, that employee No. 102, Shri Sita Ram is a clerk , and 
is covered under the Bank Award . There is no dispute about him , and he is 
a " workman " , and is entitled to rellet and all benefits arising under the Bank 
Award . 


. 


- 


. 


2600 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 
- - 

20 . It has next been pointed out, that employee No. 140, Shri Indersen Minocha , 
is the same as No. 155 . We find the name of this employee , No . 140 , in the list, 
Annexure c . He has withdrawn from the dispute , and no question arises so 
far as he is concerned in the same way as the others, whose names are found in 
Annexure C . 

21 . So far as the rest of the employees found in the list attached to the order 
of reference , with the exception of those above referred to , are concerned , it is 
stated in Ext, M / 3 , that regarding the rest of the employees, the Bank is prepared 
to implement the Award , if they so choose . Among these employees, Nos . 32 and 
41, namely Messrs . D . D . Luthra, Accountant and H . K . Das Sharma, Supervisor, 
are stated to have resigned their jobs, and are no more in the service of the Bank . 
Employee No. 180, Shri Hari Singh , Accountant, is said to have retired , So far 
as these various employees , including s . Nos. 32 , 41 and 160 in the order of 
reference, are concerned , the Bank is willing to implement the Award , if they 
wish implementation of the same. I find that all the other employees , referred 
to above. are " workmen " , and the Bank shall treat them as " workmen " , and 
implement the provisions of the Award in their case . I find accordingly on the 
above issues . 
Issue No. 4 

22 . In view of my findings , as above, that most of the employees are workmen , 
that they have been recognised as such by the Bank , and that the Bank is willing 
to implement the Award in their case , with the exception of those , whose names 
are found in Annexure C , who do not want any adjudication in this proceeding, 
but want the matter to be dropped , this issue, raising the question , whether the 
management is entitled to ask the employees to exercise their option in regard to 
their being governed by the terms of the Bank Award , does not arise . In para 
graph 33 of the claim statement of the All India Punjab National Bank Employees " 
Federation it is stated as follows : 
" It is further prayed, that the employees, who have been given better 

scales of pay of Bank s own volition , should not be deprived of such 
better grades , and others, who have not been allowed such scales of 

pay, should be allowed." 
Exception has been taken on behalf of the management to this prayer of the 
Union . It is argued , that it is not open to the workmen , covered under the Award , 
to opt for Bank s scales of pay for officers, and at the same time be governed by 
the terms and conditions of service as prescribed under the Award . The order 
of reference deals with the question , whether the various employees, whose parti 
culars have been given , should be treated as " workmen " for the purpose of the 
Bank Award. The questions, raised by the workmen in paragraph 33 of the 
statement of claim , are outside the terms of reference , and they are not anciliary 
or incidental thereto . I find that the claim , put - forward on behalf of the work 
men in paragraph 33 , as stated above , is outside the scope of the reference , and 
cannot be entertained in this proceeding . 
Issue No. 5 
23 . In the result, an award is passed as follows: 
( 1 ) There is no industrial dispute between the employees , whose names 

are mentioned in Annexure C attached to this award , and the manage 
ment of the Bank , and no directions can be given so far as they are 
concerned , and these workmen are not entitled to any relief in this 

proceeding . 
( ii) Employee. No. 110 , Shri K , K , Mehra , is not a " workman " , and he is not 

entitled to any relief in this reference. 
( iii ) All the 55 employees, mentioned in Annexure B , attached to this award , 

and also Shri Sada Nand , No, 168 , and Shri Sita Ram , No, 102 , are all 
" workmen " , and the Bank shall implement the provisions of the Bank 
Award in their case , if such implementation has not already been 

effected . 
( iv ) With reference to all the other employees , excluding those mentioned 

in paragraphs ( i) to (11 ) , the Bank shall treat them as workmen , 

and implement the provisions of the Award . 
(v ) No order as to costs. 

E . KRISHNA MURTI, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 
( Sixteen pages ) . 
The 3rd November , 1958. 


SEC. § (ti)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2601 


ANNEXURE B 


Name 


S . No. in the 
No, reference 


Designation 


Office 


ب 


. P ./ Fund Department, 

Do. 


Do. 


اباظما 


, 


Shri Sewa Ram , 
, Vijay Singh . . 

Ramji Lal , . 
K . K . Chopra . 
Ved Parkash Puri , 
M . K . Jain . 
Shiy Narain Gupta 
Bal Mukand Arya . 
Kundan Lal 


Accountant . 
Supervisor 

Do. 
Accountant . 
Supervisor 

Do. 

Do . 
Accountant . . 
Supervisor . 


Staff Deptt. 

Do . 


Do . 


حد0 


IO 


II 


Jai Chand 
D . C . Kapur , 
Roshan Lal Kapur 
Ved Parkash . . 


Head Cashier 
, Accountant . 

Do. 
Do. 


12 


Do. 


Do . 
Board & Genl. Deptt . 
. B . O . Civil Lines , 
Delhi. 

Do. 
Loans B Deptt. 
Dist . Manager, Delhi 

Circle . 
Stationery Deptt. 

Do. 
Minto Road , N . Delhi. 
Ch . Chowk , Delhi. 

( since retired ) 
Ch . Chowk , Delhi, 


vanh 


Sohan Lal , 
Amarnath Gupta , 
Hans Raj Puri 
Babu Ram . 


Supervisor 

Do . 
Accountant 
Supervisor 


ont 


Supervisor 

Do. 


Do. 


95 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


105 


106 


Do . 

Do . 
Head Cashier 
Accountant 
Supervisor 


107 


109 


Do, 
Do. 

Do. 
Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 
Minto Rd., New Delhi, 

Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


116 


Satcharan Seth 
Ganga Ram Seth 
Ascharaj Lal Kumar 
Birbal Chopra . 
Gurbux Singh , 
B . N . Sharma , 
Adishwar Parshad . . 
Rem Labhaya Kapur 
W ash Chopra 
R . L . Anand 
R . P . Garg , 
M , L , Wadhwa 
D R , Chhabra 
Panna Lal . 
Durga Das Puri . 
K . L . Puri . 
Nebh Raj Satija 
Jagwant Rai 
B . D . Gupta 
K . L . Kharbanda 
Som Datt . 
R . K . Bhanot 


3 


VO 


. 


Do . 


117 
118 
119 
124 
125 
126 
128 
Iz9 
133 
141 
142 
143 


T 


AAAAAAAAAAAAA 


Do. 


156 


Do . 


157 


170 


172 


B . K . Marwah 
Son Nath Ahuja , 
M . M . Lal Chopra 
Hari Chand Sharma 
S . N . Siyputi 
Shanti Lal Malik . 
Sural Narain , 
Sat Pal Verma . 
Sant Ram Chaddha 


, Accountant , 
. Supervigor . 

Accountant 

Supervisor 
, Do. 


Subzimandi, Delhi. 

Do . 
Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
Kashmere Gate , Delhi 
Naya Bazar , Delhi. 

Do. 
Tropical Bldg ., New 

Delhi. 
Fountain , Delhi. 
Jangpura , New Delhi, 

Lodhi Road , N . Delhi. 
, Janpath , New Delhi, 

Inspection Deptt. 
Khari Baoli, Delhi, 
Clvil Linco , Delhi. 
KhanMarket, N , Delhi 
Tropical Building , 

New Delhi, 
Loans B . 
Ch . Chowk , Delhi. 
Regal Bldg . N . Delhi 
Ajmeri Gate Extn 

New Delhi, 
. Chawri Bazar, Delhi 
Regal Bldg., New 

Delhi. 


Do . 


Accountant 


Do. 


Tara Chand . 
Ram Niwas . 
Sada Nand Şapra . 
Ram Gopal Malhotra 


Supervisor 


SI 


Do . 
Do . 


Do . 


179 
ISI 
185 


Yudhister Lai 
K . S . Bharati 
L . R . Vahi . 


Do. 


Do . 


2602 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [PART 1] 


ANNEKURE C 


S . No. in the 
No. reference 


Nam : 


Designation 


Office 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- -- - 


- - 


IamAWNH 


Accountant , 

Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


Central Office 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


· 


Shri Harbans Lal , 
Shri K . N . Bhandari 
Shri M . L . Kapur . 
Shri G . L . Talwar . 
Shri Sukh Dev 
Shri M . R , Suri 
Shri H . K . L , Kapur 
Shri R , B . Saxena . 
Shri Chirjit Singh . 
Shri S . N . Prashar . 
Sh i A . N . Dhingra 
Shri J. Ç . Jaitly . 
Shri K . K . Kakkar 
Shri Gopi Chand Mehna 
Shri Rajinder Natl Chopra 
Shri Chela Ram . . 
Shri T . N . Chopra , , 


Supervisor 

Do, 
Chartered Acctt. 
Acctt . 


Do . 
Staff Deptt. 

Do. 
Da 


Do. 


II 


12 


Do. 
Do . 


13 


NNN 


vaWN 


UA 


Do. 
Asstt . Manager 
Acctt . . 

Do. 

Do, 
Officer I/ C . 
Supvr, , 


....... 


Loans A Deptt. 
Board & Genl. Deptt . 

Delhi Shahdara . 
. Foreign Exchange 


, 


Dept 
. Do 


Shri S . R . S . Gulati . 
Shri Ascharaj Lal , 


Do . 


. 


Asstt. Manager 


.. 


20 


Shri K . L . Aggarwal 


. 


. 


Acctt. . 


. 


21 


42 
45 


Do, 
Do. 


Shri R . S . D . Malhotra . 
Shri Ram Kishan Madan 
Shri M , L . Dhawan 
Shri M . L . Mehra , 
Shri D . N . Mehrotra . 
Shri H . S . Giani : 
Shri Dharani Vir Kehar . 
Shri Ghanshyam Sarup , 


Do, 


D . M . s Office , Chan 

digarh . 
D . M s Office , Jul 

lundur City , 
Staff Department. 
Loans A Deptt. 
Inspection Deptt . 

Do. 
Property Deptt. 
Inspection Deptt . 

Do. 
D . M . Delhi Cher 


Do . 
Do. 


........ 


........ 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


cle . 


Do. 


Do. 


. 


Do. 


Shri Madan Lal Khosla . 
Shri Behari Lal Kanwara 
Shri Mitter Bilas . 
Shi H . L . Anand , . 


Do. 

Do . 
Accountant 


.... 


65 


Shri P . C . Kochhar 
Shri P . L , Khosla , 


Asstt. Manager 
Accountant . 


Inspection Deptt. 
D . M . Delhi Cir 
cle . 

Do. 
· Dehra Dun , Palcan 

Bz . 
Law Department 


Shri Ram Lal Ram Das . 
Shri Mchr Chand . 
ShriDevi Chand Sahni . 
Shri Lajya Ram Agarwal , 
Shri Madan Lal Kapahi , 
Shri K . L . Sharma . 


Do . 
Do. 
Do. 


Do, 
Do. 


Do. 


Do , 


Do . 
Do. 


Asstt. Manager 


. 
. 
. 


Accountant 


Do , 
D . M . Delhi Cir 

cle . 
Foreign Exchange 

Deptt. 
, D . M . Delhi Cir 

cle . 
Economic Deptt. ! 
. Ch . Chowk, Delhi. 

Do. 


. 


Shri V . M . Mehta . . 
Shri R , L . Puri . . 
Shri V . M . Kheshtrapal , 
Shri Hem Chand Jain . 
Shri Banwari Lal , . 
Shri Dharam Pal Mehra . 
Shri Shan Sunder Khanna 
Shri Sham Lal Agarwal . 
Shri Ram Narain Kohli . 


82 


97 


, 


Supervisor 
Acctt. . 
Super . . 

Do . 
Do , 


. 


98 


Do, 
Do . 


ΙΟΙ 
IO3 
104 


Do 
Do. 


108 


Shri Prem Nath Kapur , 


$ 1 
52 


Do. 
Patel Nagar, New 

Delhi. 
Tropical Bldg ., New 

Delhi. 
Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 

Do. 


. Aoctt. . 
. Supvr. , 

Do . 


ΙΙΟ110 
III 


. 
. 
, 


Shri R , N . Malhotra 
Shri G , D . Luthra . 


, 


, 


Sec . 3 (10 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802603 


S . No . In the 
No. reference 


53 
54 


II2 
IT3 
114 


56 
57 


115 
120 


IZI 


122 


123 


127 


136 
137 


140 


144 
145 


146 


70 


Name 

Designation 

Office 
- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 
Shri L . C . Gupta . . Supvi. 

. Khari Baoli, Delhi. 
Shri Duli Chand Gupta , 

Do. 

Sadar Bazar, Delhi. 
Shri D . R . Madhok . . Asstt. Manager Minto Road , New 

Delhi. 
Shri K . N . Iyer , 

Supvr . 

Do. 
Shri Bhola Nath . . 

Do. 

: Lodhi Road , New 

Delhi, 
Shri M . L . Bhalla . , , Do. . Parliament St., New 

Delhi. 
Shri P . S . L , Narayanam . Do. 

Minto Road , New . 

Delhi. 
Shri Ram Lal Soni 

. Acctt. . . Subzi Mandi, Delhi. 
Shri Balraj Madhok . 

Do , 

Ajmeri Gate . New 

Delhi. 
Shri Inderjit Gambar 

Supervisor 

Ch . Chowk , Delhi, 
Shri Jas Raj Chona . 

Do . . . Tropical Bldg., New 

Delhi 
Shri G . S . Mehra . Officer I/ C . . Vinay Nagar, New 

Delhi. 
Shri Bharat Prakash . . Supervisor . . Foreiglu Bxchange, 

Deptt. 
Shri Iuder Sain Mirocha 

Accountant . . Nava Bazar , Delhi. 
Shri Mangal Dass , . Supervisor . . Staff Department. 
Shri K . S . Puri 

Do . 

Tropical Building , 

New Delhi. 
Shri G . L . Sachdeva 

Manager . . 

Lodhi Road , New 

Delhi. 
Shri Dev Raj Vig , . . Accti . . . Ajmeri Gate , New 

Delhi. 
Shri J . K . Garg , 

Supvr . 

Do. 
Mrs. Shobha Raina 

Do . 

: Lodhi Road , New 

Delhi. 
Shri S . P . Jain . . , Do . . . Gurdwara Road , Ka 

rol Bagh , New 

Delhi. 
Shri Mohan Lal Huria . . Acctt . : . . 

Junpath , New Delhi, 
Shri V . D . Vij 

Supvr . . 

Khari Bioli, Delhi. 
Shri H . K . L . Bhatia . . Do. 

Minto Road , New 

Delhi. 
Shri Joti Prasad . . . Acctt. , , , Chawri Bizer 

Delhi. 
Shri B . D . Guçta , , , Asstt. Manager 

Do , 
Shri B , C . Bangal , , . Acctt. . . 

Paharganj, New 

Delhi. 
Shri A . D . Sabherwal . 

Do . 

Bank Street, Karol 

Bagh , Delhi, 
Shri R . C . Aurora , . Supur, , 

Do . 
Shri B . N . Gulati , 

Acctt. . 

Patel Nagar, New 

Delhi, 
Shri M , L , Aggarwal 

Do. 

Inspection Deptt. 
Shri Rajinder Ajmani 

Supvr. 

Staff Department. 
Shri Raja Ram Khanna . Asstt. Manager Daryaganj, Delhi. 
Shri Kashi Nath Vahi • Acctt . . 

Loans B 
Shri N . B . Bhatnagar . . Supyr. . 

Daryagan ), Delhi. 
Shri R . K . Malik . 

Do . 

Ingpection Deptt . 
Shri H . D . Srivastava 

Acctt. , 

· Daryaganj, Delhi. 
Shri G . P . Gupta . 

Supyr . . Central Office . 


148 
149158 
162 


72 


169 
173 


174 


182 
183 


IBA 


186 


193 


164 


7 


87 


166 


165 


[No. LR / II 10 ( 2 ) /57. ] 
New Delhi, the 20th November 1988 
$ . 0 . 2479. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
In relation , to the Loyabad Colliery Workshop of M / s Bird & Co . ( Private ) Ltd , 
Post Office Bansjora and their workmen . 


2604THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 (PART II 


- 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 43 OF 1958 . 
PARTIES: 
Employers in relation to Loyabad Colliery workshop of Messrs. Bird & Co . 
( Private ) Limited . 

and 
Their workmen , 

Dated the 8th November 1958 . 

Present: 
Shri Salim M . Merchant( B . A .LL . B : Chalrman : 
Appearances : 

Shri S . S . Mukherjea , B .Sc ., B . L ., 
Advocate, with Shri P . K . Mitter, Chief Personnel Oficer, 
and Shri J. L . Sinha, Group Personnel Omcer - - for the employers . 
Shri Lallt Burman , 

General Secretary , Loyabad Labour Union - - for the workmen . 
State : Bihar. 

Industry : Coal. 


AWARD 


The Government of India , Ministry of Labour, and Employment, by Order 
No. LR II / 2 ( 84 ) / 58 dated 11th July 1958 made in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 
1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the industrial dis 
pute between the parties above named in respect of the following matters specified 
in the schedule annexed to the said order : 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri J . N . Prasad , Assistant Store Keeper , 

Loyabad colliery workshop of M / s , Bird & Co. ( P ) Ltd . P . O . Bansjora 

( Dhanbad ) was justified , and if not, what relier he is entitled to ." 
2 . After the usual notices were issued Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , 
Loyabad Labour Union , Aled the statement of claim on behalf of the workmen on 
18th August 1958 and the employers Aled their written statement in reply on 10th 
September 1958 , after which the matter was fixed for hearing on 3rd October 1958 
and after being part heard was adjourned for parties to negotiate for a settlement 
and as no settlement was reached , the hearing was concluded on 17th October 
1958 . 

3 . The facts of the case briefly stated are that Shri J . N . Prasad , the workman 
concerned in this dispute, was at the relevant time employed as an Assistant Store 
Keeper of the Loyabad Colliery Workshop . He had been in the services of this 
company since April 1951 and had worked in different collierles under it . According 
to the union after joining the workshop , Prasad started taking an active part in 
organising another union of the workmen namely the Loyabad Colliery Workshop 
Workers Union and in about August 1957 he was elected its Vice President. 
According to Shri Prasad the management did not take these activities of his in 
good spirits as the new union under his leadership took up the frievances of the 
workmen particularly with regard to their proper gradation and categorisation 
under the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India . This displeased 
the management which sought an opportunity to get rid of him . The management 
has denied this allegation of victimisation and has stated that this union was 
not recognised by it as it was an un - registered union , 


4 . Now , the facts leading to the dismissal of Prasad from service on 3rd January 
1958 are that on 18th November 1957 Prasad attended to his duties as usual but 
as he was not feeling well , with the permission of the Manager of the workshop , 
he got himself examined by the company s doctor at the colllery s hospital, when 
It was found that he was suffering from Adenitis in the left groin , for which he 
was prescribed certain treatment. The medical attendance ticket issued to him 
by the company s hospital has been filed in these proceedings ( Exhibit W - A ) . 
According to Prasad he was ill trom 19th November 1957 to 25th November 1957, 
and could not therefore attend to his duties until he resumed work on 26th 


Sec 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802605 


November 1957. It is also admitted that on 23rd, 24th and 25th November 1957 he 
was treated at the Bhull dispensary and the certificate produced from that dispensary 
(Exhibit E - 7 ) shows that he was suffering from fever and dermatitis. 

5 . According to the management, Prasad had remained absent without any 
prior authorised leave from 19th November 1957 during which period it was 
reported to the management that he was found at West Bokaro colllery where a 
strike was going on . Therefore on 21st November 1957 the management addressed 
& letter to Prasad (Exhibit E - 6 ) asking his explanation for his un -authorised 
absence from 19th November 1957, to which he replied on the same day stating 
that he had been ill since 18th November 1956 ( Exhibit E .5 ) . Thereafter he re 
sumed work on 26th November 1957 when a charge sheet , No . 3 dated 26th 
November 1957, was issued to him charging him under para 12 of the Standing 
Orders with unauthorised absence from 19th November 1957 to 22nd November 
1957. He replied to this charge sheet denying the charge and stated that he had , 
with the permission of the Manager , got himself examined at the company s 
hospital on 18th November 1957 after which he had taken ill and was unable to 
walk about. He stated that the question of unauthorised absence did not arise 
as he was sick and had obtained medical attendance ticket from Loyabad Hospital 
on 18th November 1957 and had also been treated at the Bhuli Dispensary on 
the 23rd , 24th and 25th November . The management was not satisfied with this 
explanation and fixed an enquiry on the charge sheet on 14th December 1957 
which was adjourned sine die . The enquiry was, thereafter held on 28th December 
1957 at which the manager of the Loyabad Workshop made a factual statement 
about Prasad s absence from 19th November 1957 to 22nd November 1957 and of 
the charge sheet which had been issued to him . To establish the company s case 
that Prasad was really not ill and had gone to the West Bokaro colliery during the 
period of his unauthorised leave, the management examined two workmen of 
the West Bokaro colliery namely R . K . Prasad ( P . W . 2 ) and Rahman Khan ( P . W . 
3 ) and it is on the evidence of these two witnesses that the enquiring officer of 
the management held that it was proved that Prasad had visited the West 
Bokaro colliery during that period and I shall therefore deal with the evidence of 
these two witnesses in detall a little later . To continue , at the enquiry the state 
ment of Ramchandra Tewari, Office Chaprasi, Loyabad Workshop , who has been 
shown as D . W . 1, was also recorded . Prasad also made a statement and was 
searchingly cross - examined on that statement evidently by the Enquiry Ofcer. 
After the enquiry , the manager by his letter dated 3rd January 1958 (Annexure 
D to the company s written statement) informed Prasad that, " his explanation 
that he was too sick to obtain medicine or to obtain leave was found false at 
the enquiry as it was proved that he visited the West Bokaro collery during this 
period .” He was , therefore, dismissed from service with immediate effect . 
Against this order Prasad appealed to the Chief Mining Engineer who by his 
order dated 20th January 1958 turned down the same. The union thereafter raised 
an industrial dispute with regard to the dismissal of Prasad , which was taken 
up in conciliation but as the conciliation proceedings ended in fallure , the dispute 
has been referred to adjudication . 

6 . Before dealing with the contentions raised by the parties it is necessary in 
state that the company in its written statement had raised a legal contention that 
this dispute does not come under the purview of the definition of industrial 
dispute under Section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, as it was an 
individual dispute . But this contention was not pressed at the hearing by Shri 
Mukherjea the learned Advocate for the Company as clearly the case of this workman 
has been taken up by the Loyabad Labour Union and as the Government order of 
reference describes this as a dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Loyabad colliery Workshop of Messrs. Bird & Co ., ( P ) Ltd . and their workmen . 
I need not , therefore , deal with this contention . 

7. The main ground on which this order of dismissal is challenged on behalf 
of Prasad is that the evidence at the enquiry did not establish the management s 
conclusion that he had been found at the West Bokaro colliery during the period of 
his leave and that the order of dismissal which was based on that finding was not 
Justifled . 

8 . I have carefully gone through the evidence recorded at the enquiry and I 
am of the opinion that the Anding of the management that it was proved at the 
enquiry that he had visited the West Bokaro colliery during the period of his 
leave was perverse , 

9 . Witness R . K . Prasad ( P . W . 2 ) in his statement in examination in Chief at 
the enquiry stated that on the 18th or / 19th November (under lining mine ) he had 
seen Prasad at West Bokaro colllery . He stated that he had seen him with one 


2606 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [Part II 


- - 


- 


Bindeshwari Singh an I. N . T . U . C . leader in the house of Guru Das Ram and that he 
appeared unwell. In cross-examination by Prasad ho stated that he had seen . 
Prasad at about 8 p .m . on 18th November 1957 and again on 19th November 1957 
at about 7 a . m . It will thus be seen that whilst in examination in Chief this . 
witness had stated that he had seen Prasad either on 18th of 19th November, in 
his cross - exmination he stated that he had seen him at 8 p .m . on 18th November 
1957 and again on 19th November 1957 at about 7 a . m . Now , it is admitted that 
the West Bokaro colliery is about 100 miles from Loyabad Colliery and that 
Prasad was in the Loyabad colliery on duty on 18th November 1957 till 2 - 15 p . m . 
and it is admitted that there is no ordinary mode of transport by which he could . 
have reached West Bokaro colllery by 8 p .m , on 18th November 1957 . 

10 . The second witness Rahman Khan , ( P . W . 3 ) Overman in Charge , West 
Bokaro Colliery , who was examined evidently to corroborate the statement of the 
first witness R . K . Prasad ( P . W . 2 ) stated that on 19th November , 1957 at about 
10 - 30 a .m . when he was going from the office towards his quarters with Raj 
Kishore Babu ( P . W . 2 ) , he saw J . N , Prasad , the workman concerned in this dispute . 
There upon he asked Raj Kishore Babu who this new man was and Raj Kishore 
Babu replied that he knew him and that he worked at Loyabad . It will thus. 
be seen that whilst P . W . 2 stated that he had seen J . N . Prasad at 
the West Bokaro colliery at 7 a .m . on 19th November , 1957 and he 
stated nothing about having seen him in the company of Rahman Khan , Rahman 
Khan , ( P . W . 3 ) says that he saw J . N , Prasad at about 10 - 30 a . m . on 19th Novem 
ber 1957 when he was in the company of Raj Kishore Prasad . There is therefore 
clear inconsistency in the evidence of P . W . 2 and of P . W . 3 . Besides , the story 
of Rahman Khan that because he saw a new face at the colllery he asked Rat 
Kishore Babu who he was , appears to be unnatural and unconvincing . The 
defence of the workman that these were witnesses who were under the management s 
control receives strength from the fact admitted by the management that Rahman 
Khan ( P . W . 3 ) was a former employee of the Loyabad colliery . I am inclined 
to the opinion that the evidence of these two witnesses was so unreliable , 
unconvincing , inconsistant and improbable , as not to be believed by any impartial 
enquiry omcer. It is also significant that the enquiry which was fixed on 14tb 
December , 1957 was suddenly adjourned sine dle . It appears to me that the 
contention of Prasad that these 2 witnesses were not independent witnesses but 
under the control of the management is justified . 

11 . It is now well settled that the purpose of a departmental enquiry by a 
Domestic Tribunal is to see whether the charge framed against the concerned 
employee is proved on the evidence recorded at the enquiry . The Anding of the 
Enquiry Officer must be based on the evidence on the record . As held by the 
Hon ble Supreme Court in the case of Indian Iron & Steel Co., Ltd ., Versus their 
workmen ( 1958 - I- L . L . J .P . 261 at page 269 and 270 ) the Tribunal would be justifed 
in interfering with the order of dismissal of the management when on the materials 
the finding of the management is completely baseless or perverse . In my opinion 
the evidence at the enquiry was so completely unsatisfactory that no impartial 
enquiry officer would have on the basis of that evidence come to the conclusion 
that it was established that Prasad had during the period of his unauthorised 
pbsence gone to West Bokaro colliery. This finding in the light of the circum 
stances stated above, must be held to be perverse . 

12 . It was sought to be argued by Shri Mukherjea, learned Advocate for the 
company that Shri Prasad s story that he was so unwell that he could not move 
out of the house could not be believed . In that connection he has relied upon the 
statement of Ramchandra Tewary , office chaprasi ( D . W . 1 ) who was examined at 
the enquiry and who stated that he had on 21st November 1957 taken a letter 
from the Manager to J . N . Prasad at his residence and met him on the road at 
the entrance to Bhuli colony . It is , however , admitted that Prasad lived in the 
Bhull colony . Merely by the fact that he was seen on 21st November 1957 in 
the Bhull colony would not establish that he was not well during 19th to 22nd 
November 1957 . 

13. It was also argued that Prasad if he was really IU and unable to attend 
to his duties could very well have informed the management to that effect by 
having sent a letter through one of the other employees of the workshop who 
were also living in Bhull colony . To this , Prasad s explanation was that he had 
no servant and he was not in a fit condition to move out to send any letter to 
the management. But the Anding of the enquiry officer, as stated in the Manager s 
letter of dismissal dated 3rd January 1958 , was that it was proved at the enquiry 
that Prasad had visited the West Bokaro colliery during the period 19th November 
1957 to 22nd November where an illegal strike was in progress — the suggestion 


Sec. 3 (il) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802607 


being that he had gone there to further the progress of that illegal strike. The 
management therefore had dismissed him not because Prasad had failed in his 
duty to inform the management that he was not well and could not attend but 
because the management was satisfied that the enquiry had established that he 
had visited West Bokaro Colliery during the 18th and 21st November 1957. In 
other words he was dismissed because the management believed the evidence of 
witnesses P . W . 2 and P . W , 3 that he had gone to the West Bokaro colliery . It 
must be remembered that on 18th November 1957 Prasad was treated at the 
company s hospital and thereafter admittedly on 23rd , 24th and 25th November , 
"he was treated at the Bhull dispensary , as proved by Exhibit E - 7 . The Bhull 
- dispensary certiAcate states that Prasad was gullering from fever and dermatitis . 
It was suggested by Shri Mukherjea , learned Advocate for the management that 
this was a different malady from the one for which he was treated earlier at the 
company s hospital on 18th November 1957. But it is significant to note that both 
the company s doctor as well as the Bhuli doctor had prescribed the same lotion 
namely lotion calamine, indicating that Shri Prasad was treated at the Bhuli 
hospital for the same malady as by the company s hospital on the 18th November . 

14 . Shri Lalit Burman on behalf of the workman , next contended that 
absence without permission could amount to misconduct only if it had extended 
for a period of more than 10 days. In that connection he has referred to Standing 
Order No. 27 ( 16 ) which provides that continuous absence without permission and 
without satisfactory cause for more than 10 days would amount to misconduct. 
He has, therefore , argued that as Prasad s absence had only been of 4 days, 
"he was not guilty of misconduct under Standing Order 27 ( 16 ) , which was the 
proper standing order which applied . He has further contended that the manage 
ment had recourse to standing order No . 12 in a mala fide manner because it 
will know that Standing Order 27 ( 16 ) would not apply . His further content! on 
that Standing Order No. 12 does not apply to cases of absence from work for 
short periods like 4 days , as in the Instant case . Standing order No. 12 provides 
as follows: 
" Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, any employee who overstays 

his sanctioned leave or remains absent without properly approved 
leave will render himself llable for disciplinary action ." 


Reading this Standing Order with Standing Order No . 11 , it does appear that the 
absence contemplated by this Standing Order relates to absence by way of over 
staying of sanctioned leave or availing oneself of leave which is due without proper 
rapproval of the management and that short unauthorised absence from work as 
in this case would more properly be a misconduct if it falls under the provisions 
of Standing Order 27 ( 16 ) . flowever, as I have held that the order of dismissal 
was perverse , it is not necessary to give a Anding on this contention , 


15 . In the result , I am satisfied that the dismissal of Shri J . N . Prasad was not 
justified and I answer the first question under reference accordingly . The next 
question to consider is as to what relief Prasad is entitled to . Consilering all 
the facts and circumstances of the case I think the ends of justice would be met 
11 I were to direct that Prasad should be reinstated in servirc in his old post with 
continuity of service within a month from the date the award herein becomes 
enforreable on his presenting himself for being taken back in service and that the 
management shall pay him hall the basic pay and dearness allowance for the 
period from the date of dismissal i. e . from 3rd January 1958 till the date of his 
- reinstatement within 7 days of his reinstatement . 


16 . I award Rs. 50 / - (Rupees Afty ), as costs to the workman . 

SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

(Sd .) 
Chairman , Central Govt. 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 
Dhanbad , 
The 8th November 1958 . 

[No, LR II / 2 (84 ) / 58 .] 


6 . 0 . 2480 . . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
- the Labour Court , Nagpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Rayatwari Colliery , Chanda and their workmen , 


2608 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [ PART II 


BEFORE SHRI P . D . VYAS , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, 

NAGPUR AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE (LC ) No, 3 OF 1958 

AN ADJUDICATION BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to 
Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda. 

AND 
Their Workmen . 

In the matter of an industrial dispute re, dismissal of a workman , 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri S . G . Rao , Manager, with Shri S . R . Dhas - for the Management. 

Shri K . R . Nalamwar, President, Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh - for 
the workmen , 


AWARD 
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) sub -section ( 1 ) of secion 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Central Government was pleased to 
refer to me an industrial dispute between the employers in relation to Rayatwari 
Colliery , Chanda, and their workmen for adjudication by Government Order 
No. LRII 2 (40 ) 58 dated 9 - 5 - 1958 . The dispute relates to the matter specified 
in the schedule annexed to the said order . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Ramteke Madana , ex -Sirdar of Rayatwari 

Colliery, Chanda, was wrongful and if so , to what relief Shri 

Madana is entitled ." 
2 . On the usual notices being issued the President, Maharashtra Khadan 
Mazdoor Sangh , Chanda, has Aled the statement of claims on behalf of the 
workman and the Manager, Rayatwari Colliery , Chanda , has led the written 
statement on behalf of the Company . 

3 . The case on behalf of the workman is that on Sunday the 1st December 
1957, Shri Ramteke Madana was collecting weekly subscription from the members 
of the Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , Rayatwari Colliery , Chanda . Shri 
Dughals , Mining Engineer , accompanied with a team of Chowkidar, Engineer , 
Over -man , Accountant and Office Superintendent apprehended Shri Madana and 
snatched away the Union s subscription book and assaulted him and his 
Co -workers . He was thereafter driven out of the Colliery area and when on the 
same night he reported for work he was not allowed to work in the night shift . 
Since then he is being refused employment without having been served with any 
charge -sheet or without disclosing any reason whatsoever . It is alleged by the 
Management that his services were terminated due to his violent behaviour and 
statements but the incident took place on Sunday which was a rest day for him 
and when he was not on duty. No question of violent behaviour and statements 
as such on his part therefore, arises. As regards the assault on Shri Madana , 
the incident has been reported to the Police Station , Chanda , and a criminal case 
inder section 107 of the Criminal Procedure Code has been started by the Police . 

\ny allegation that Shri Madana took part in an illegal strike on 4th and 5th 
of December , 1957 is untenable and unwarranted since his services have been 
terminated on 1st December, 1957. It is clear that Shri Madana has been 
dismissed on account of his trade union activities in the Colliery and he should 
therefore be reinstated with full backwages . 

4 . The case on behalf of the Management is that the weekly payment to the 
labour having remained unfinishd on 30 -11- 1957, it was again taken up on 
1 - 12 - 1957. Shri Ramtekę Madana started collecting subscription at the 
counter when the payment was in progress . The Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh for which the collections were being made by Shri Madana has not been 
recognised by the Company and many of the workers being not the members 
of the said Union protested against Shri Madana making the collections. In the 
result there was a lot of confusion and nuisance at the counter and it became 
almost impossible to make the disbursements. Moreover , Shri Madana was not 
permitted by the Management to collect money at the counter or within the 
Colliery premises. In the circumstances Shri Madana was asked to stop his 


SEC. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 18802609 


collections at the counter but he did not listen and he and his companions acted 
in an offensive and abusive manner. It is untrue that the Manager with bts 
Assistants apprehended him or assaulted him though it is a fact that the sub 
scription book was taken away from him and a report was made to the police 
against him and others . Though the incident took place on Sunday , even on a 
rest day it was not open to Shri Madana to behave in a riotous and unruly 
manner and be offensive towards the Management. It is Shri Madana and his 
companions who have been proceeded against under section 107 of Criminal 
Procedure Code and besides, he having actively worked to incite the labour to 
go on illegal strike on the 4th and 5th December, 1958 , the matter was reported 
to the Regional Labour Commissioner and to the Deputy Superintendent of 
Police , Chanda . It is denied that Shri Madana has been dismissed for his trade 
Union activities and alleged that while in service he was found guilty of the 
tollowing acts and omissions: 

( a ) Sleeping during duty hours amounting to dereliction of duty 
(b ) Appointing persons to work in the collery without Jurisdiction ; 
( c ) Falsely showing his presence in the attendance register on 31 - 3 - 1957 . 

1 -4 - 1957 & 2 - 4 - 1957 even though he had actually enjoyed leave and 

thereby tried to cheat the Management ; 
(d ) Signing the attendance register in advance ; 
( e ) Disobeyed the order of the Management in riding in bucket in a 

shaft, a very serious matter exposing himself to the risk of death 
and exposing the colliery to blame and the risk of payment of 

compensation for loss of life . 
Chis past record and the unruly and unbecoming behaviour of Shri Madana 
made it incumbent on the Management to remove him from service . He was, 
therefore, dismissed on 1 - 12 - 1957 and refused employment from that date . It 
is true that a charge - sheet was not given to him before dismissal but this is 
riot a requirement under law , but under circulars issued and no circulars for the 
ronduct of business have been issued in regard to this colliery . Non - issue of 
charge -sheet for the incident on 1 - 12 - 1957 therefore cannot make the dismissal 
of Shri Madana illegal. In the circumstances stated above Shri Madana was 
Found incompetent for the job and has shown bimself unreliable and dishonest . 
His wanton disobedience to safety regulations and orders of the Management 
make it risky to retain him any longer in service with the responsible duties of 
a Sirdar . 

5 . The Management next contends that Shri Madana after his dismissal has 
accepted his dues in full and final settlement of his claims and thus the matter 
has been concluded . Moreover , the Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor Sangh has 
not been recognised by the Management and is thus not entitled to take up the: 
rausc of Shri Madana and make it an industrial dispute . Assuming it could 
do so, the said Union has never approached the Management for the reinstate 
ment of Shri Madana and there arose no industrial dispute between the Union 
and the employers so as to make it competent to the Government to make the 
present reference . Besides a dismissed workman cannot by making a demand 
for reinstatement, create an industrial dispute and his dismissal has not 
developed into a dispute in which the majority of the workers of the Colliery 
have become interested or have espoused his cause . In the absence of any 
industrial dispute , the reference made is without Jurisdiction . 

6 . The questioni arising in the present reference is whether the dismissal of 
Shri Ramtekę Madana , ex - Sirdar of Rayatwari Colliery, Chanda was wrongful 
ana it so , to what relief Shri Madana is entitled . It is an undisputed fact that 
ne was a working Sirdar and the President of the Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh , Rapatwarl Branch , Chanda. I was told that the said Sangh is a registered 
Trade Union and it cannot be gain - said that the Union of which Shri Madana 
is a member and office -bearer has taken up his cause and turned it into a 
collective dispute on behalf of the workmen in general. It appears from the 
failure report of the Conciliation Offer (Central) , Ex , U - 2 , that the Maharashtra 
Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , Chanda by its letter dated 4 - 12- 1957 represented that 
Management of Ravatwari Colliery , Chanda illegally dismissed Shri Ramteke 
Madana, on account of his Trade Union activities. The Union thus sought the 
Intervention of the Concillation Officer and requested for the relnstatement of 
the said employee . The representative of the Management appearing before the 
Conciliation Omcer stated that in the past Shri Ramteke Madana hæd committed 
certain offences but every time lenient view was taken and he was pardoned , 
The said representative further expressed that considering the action of Shrt: 
Ramtekę Madana on 5 - 12 - 1957 when he prohibited certain leaders from going 


2610 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [Part II 


underground and the past offences committed by him , the Management had no 
other alternative but to dismiss him from service . The Management s represen 
tative then denied the allegation of any victimisation on account of the Trade 
Union activities of Shri Madana. It is thus incorrect to say that the Management 
was never approached for reinstatement of Shri Mauana or that this is not an 
Industrial dispute which could be referred for adjudication by the Government. 
In my opinion the present reference is quite competent and this Tribunal has 
got the jurisdiction to proceed with the same on merits , 

7 . The weekly payment day to the labour was on 30 - 11- 1957 but the payment 
having remained unfinished on that day it was taken up on the next day, 1.e . 
on 1 - 12 - 1957. It was on this day that Shri Ramteke Madana started collecting 
subscription in his capacity as the President, Maharashtra Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh , Rayatwari Colliery Branch , Chanda , along with his Secretary . On behalf 
of the workmen it was alleged that Shri Madana was collecting subscription in 
the Labour colony where the workmen are residing , i.e . at a distance of about 
200 ft. from the office . No such case has been specifically pleaded in the state 
ment of claims nor does it look quite correct in the circumstances of the case . 
According to the workmen s own version the Mining Engineer along with a 
team of some other officers snatched away the subscription book and turned 
out Shri Madana after having committed an act of assault on him . If the 
collection took place in the labour colony away from the office , no such incident 
is likely to take place and there is every likelyhood that Shri Madna was 
collecting subscription without permission of the Management just at the counter 
or near the office which seriously disturbed the work of payment to labour going 
on on that day. The Management admits the fact that the subscription book 
was taken away from him and that in view of his unruly and unbecoming 
behaviour together with his past bad record he was removed from service with 
effect from 1 - 12- 1957 , 

8 . In the written statement filed in the present reference as well as in the 
proceedings before the Conciliation Officer , the Management has made certain 
confusion as to the ultimate causę which led to the dismissal of Shri Madana , 
So far as the past record is concerned , it is relevant only for determining the 
nature of the punishment provided the incident which took place on 1 - 12 - 1957 
19 true, So also the subsequent behaviour, if any, on the part of the worker 
concerned on 4th and 5th December , 1957 in connection with the alleged incite 
ment to strike (cf. Exs. C 12 & C 14 ) is not quite relevant, when according to 
the Management s own case in the written statement Shri Madana was dismissed 
on 1 - 12 - 1957. The letter dated 1 - 12 - 1957 addressed to him for the purpose by 
the Colllery Manager stands thus - ( vide Exs. C11 & Ul) : 


" In view of your violent behaviour and statements this morning and 

ronsidering the fact that you have been issued with various charge 
sheets in the past for breaches of Mining Laws and other unseemely 
behaviour , I regret that your services are no longer required by this 
firm . 


You will please attend the office and take your Anal settlement forthwith ," 
It is this dismissal which is the subject-matter of the present reference. 


9 . It appears that after the incident on 1 - 12- 1957, the matter was taken up 
to the Police by both the parties . So far as these police actions by the parties 
are concerned , I was told that at present there is no criminal case pending 
between them . Moreover no question relating thereto arises before us in the 
present reference. That Shri Madana was making unauthorised collection on 
1 - 12 - 1957 without the permişsion of the Management cannot be denied and it 
was not open to him to create any disturbance at the counter or at the office 
where the weekly payment to labour was going on . Whether it was a Sunday 
or a rest day for Shri Madana makes no difference, because any such riotous 
behaviour or act subversive of discipline does give rise to an action on the part 
of the Management even if it takes place outside the working hours or outside 
the premises of the establishment — vice Workmen of the Shalimar Rope Works 
VI. Shalimar Rope Works, Ltd . - 1953 II L . L . J. 876 . But at the same time the 
Manadomont could not summarily dismiss the concerned workman in the manner 
It has done and even if there be no standing orders anverning the Concern , the 
Management should have followed the principles of natural Justice and given an 
opportunity to the workman to render explanation . In the written statement 
It is alleged that the non - issue of charge - sheet for the incident cannot make the 
dismissal illegal and that the Management is under no legal obligation to issue 


SEC. $ ( il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 18802611 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - 

um - 

- - 
any charge- sheet . In fact there are papers on record which indicate that for 
the past incidents referred to in the written statement, the Management did 
issue charge - sheet. Thus the Management is aware of the reguirement of a 
eharge- sheet or giving a formal opportunity to the workman concerned to make 
his defence and there is justification why the Management should have given 

go -bye to the usual procedure at the time of the last incident on 1 - 12 - 1957. 
In my opinion , therefore , the action of the Management in summarily dismissing 
the workman is not justifled and in the ordinary circumstances the concerned 
workman would have been entitled to the normal relict of reinstatement with 
back wages . 

10 . There are however other factors in the case which disentitle the concerned 
workman to any relief. In the first place there is enough material vide Exs. 
C2 to C10 and C - 13 indicating his past bad record and the Management has 
rightly contended that it is risky to retain him any longer in scrvice and entrust 
to him the responsible job of a Sirdar. The matter does not rest there . We find 
that the concerned workman has later on given up the dispute and accepted 
certain money from the Management in full and final settlement of his claims. 
He was paid in all Rs. 275 - 55 on 15 -4 - 1958 and he has passed the following 
receipt in his own hand and in his own language which has been translated into 
English and attested by certain witnesses - vide Ex . Ci along with its enclosures 
and C17: 


" I have today received my dues in full and Anal settlement from M / s . 

R . B . Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad . Proprietor, Chanda Rayatwari 
Colllery, Chanda . I got no any other claims what - so -ever on the 
company henceforth , as I got all my dues to my satisfaction . I 
shall be vacating my Quarters immediately ." 


That he did accept the moncy and knew what it was has not been disputed and 
he has further admitted that the said writing in vernacular is in his own hand 
and under his signature. The payment consists of honus, leave pay, notice pay 
and difference in arrears of wages and when the worker goes to the extent of 
saying that not only he has no other claims whatsoever but he shall also be 
vacating his Quarters immediately , it means that it was a final settlement under 
which he severed his connection with the Management for good . If really there 
was to remain any dispute outstanding hetween the Management and the 
workman . It is unlikely that he would agree to vacate his Quarters. That there 
was a talk that the Management should pay his dues to Shri Madana and settle 
the dispute amicably could not be denied by the Union looking to its report as 
per Ex . U3 to the Conciliation Officer ( Central) . What is there alleged is that 
after signing the papers of settlement, when Shri Madana took the amount, he 
found that it was not even one-third of the total amount due to him . In the 
Arst place it is significant to note that the statement of claims is entirely silent on 
this point and this important gunscquent event which goes to the root of the 
matter has been there kept back , Even after the Management mentioned the 
same in its written atatement, no attempt has been made to deny or explain the 
name by filing any reloinder . Tt is unlikely that the workman would actually 
receive the money without any protest as he has done. As said above it is an 
indisputed fact that he did accept the money and know what it was . If he 
really felt that the payment fcll short of the amount due to him or expected by 
him , he would have refused to accept the same. Obviously any attempt on his 
behalf to report to the Conciliation Ofncer ( Central) as per Ex . U - 3 is an after 
thought. Not only this but the worker went to the extent of charging the 
Management with a criminal art of cheating but I was told that the police took 
no action in the matter . In my opinion the fact that there has been a full and 
Anal settlement in satisfaction of the claims of the concerned workman cannot 
be denied and it is not onen to him to seek the relief of reinstatement and / or 
any compensation . The dispute having beer set1 ]rd between the parties , there 
arises no question of granting any relict to the workman Shri Madana and the 
reference stands dispoxed of accordingly 
Datert : 7th November 1958 , 

( Sd .) P . D . Vyas, 

Judge, 
Central Govt . Labour Court, 

Nagpur. 


[ No . LRII / 2 (40 ) / 58. ] 


2612 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 


S . O . 2481, Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the East Kumardhubi Colliery and their workman represented by the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Dhanbad ; 


And whereas the management of the said colliery and the Colllery Mazdoor 
Sangh have , under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the dispute to arbitration by an Arbitration Agree . 
ment and have forwarded to the Central Government under sub - section ( 3 ) of 
the said section a copy of the said Arbitration Agreement; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby publishes the said Arbitration Agreement. 


FORM C 

( See Rule 7 ) 
ACREMENT 
Under Section 10A of thc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ) 

BETWEEN 


Name of Parties : 


Representing Employers: 


Shri L . J. Pathak, 
Chicf Welfare Officer , 
Shree Shree Lakshmi Narain Trust , 
East Kumardhubi Colliery , 
P . O . Chirkunda ( Dhanbad ). 
Shri S . Radha Krishnan , 
Manager , East Kumardhuhi Colliery 
P . O . Chirkunda ( Dhanbad ) . 


Representing Workmen : 


The President, 
Collicry Mazdoor Sangh , 
Opposite State Bank of India , 
Dhanbad . 
The General Secretary , 
Collicry Mazdoor Sangh , 
Opp : State Bank of India , 
Dhanbad , 


It is hcreby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the arbitra 
tion of 

Shri Salim Merchant, B .A . L .L . B ., 
Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 
(i) Specific matters in disputes : 

Shri Ramkissun Das , 
Trammers Sirdar should be removed from 

East Kumardhubi Colliery . 
( ii ) Details of the parties to the disputc Employers of East Kumardhubi Colliery 

including the name and address of M / s. Srec Srce Lokshmi Narain Trust , 
th : Establishment or undertuking J P . O . Chirkuda, Dist. Dhanbad . 
involved . 


( iii ) Name of the Union , if any, represen . 

ting the workmen in questioni. 


Colliery Mazdoor Saingh , Regd , No . 491 
sopposite State Bank of India , Dhanbad . 


( iv ) Total number of workmen employed 

in the undertaking affected. 


590 


540 


( v ) Estimated number of workinen 

affected or likely to be affected by the 
dispute . 


- 


Sec . 3 (it)] TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 

= - - - - - - - - 

- - = = - = 

- = - - = - - 
We further agrce that the majority decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

Signature of the Parties . 
Witness : 

Sd /- L . J . PATHAK , 
(1) Sd )- N . M . TRIVEDI, 

Chief Welfare Oficer , 
( Cashier, E . K . Colly ) 

Shree Shree Lakslimi Narain Trust, 
East Kumardhubi Colliery, 
P . O . Chirkunda (Dhanbad ). 
Representing Employers . 


Sd / - S . RADHA KRISHAN . 

Colliery Manager , 
Srce Srec Lakshmi Narain Trust, 
East Kumardhubi Colliery , 
1 . 0 . Chirkunda (Dhanbad ). 
Representing Employers . 
Sd / - KANTI MEHTA , 

President, 
Collicry Mazdoor Sangha ( INTUC) , 
Opposite State Bank of Indiu , 
Dhanbad , 
Kepresenting Workers, 

( R . N . SHARMA), M . L . A . 

General Secretary , 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh ( INTUC ), 
Opposite State Bank of India , 

Dhanbad . 
Darod : 23rd October 58 . 

Representing Workers. 

[No. LRII-2 ( 146) / 58 .] 
New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
S . O . 2482. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to M / S Nenshi Monji, Quarry Owners , Bombay, and their workmen . 
BEFORE SURI F . JEEJEEBLOY CHAIRMAN , LABOUR APPELLATE TRIBUNAI, 
OF INDIA , FUNCTIONING AS THE SOLE MEMBER OF THE CENTRAL 
GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CONSTITUTED BY THE ORDEP 
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA , MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOY 
MENT DATED 14TIL AUGUST 1958 , WITII HEADQUARTERS AT BOMBAY . 

REPURENCE ( CGIT ) No. 1 OF 1958 

In the matter of: 
Nenshi Monji, Quarry owners . 

AND 
Their workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 

For the employers.-- Shri B . N . Ramdas, Labour Adviser . 
For the workmen . - Shri R . S . Kulkarni, President, Mumbai Wa Upnayan 
Dagad Khun Kamgar Union . 

AWARD 
The Central Government by its Order of 14th August 1958 referred an indus 
trial dispute between Nenshi Monji, Quarry owners of Bombay , and their work 
men to this Tribunal for adjudication . The two issues for decision are as follows: 
1. What should be the reccss hours for the workers of quarry of M / s Nenshi 

Monji, and 
2 . Is it absolutely necessary to have second recess for purposes of blasting ? 
2 . This quarry is situated on the Kurla - Vihar road , and the 23 acres which 
comprise the total quarry arca of the firm of Nenshi Monji about the main road . 
In the quarry the workmen before me are engaged for the purpose of drilling into 
the rock and of breaking the blasted roc!: ; the blasting is done by others . 


2614 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 [ PART II 


3 . The hours of work at the quarry are as follows: 

First Session : 8 A . M . to 12 NOON . 
Recess: 12 to 1 - 30 P . M . 
Second Session : 1 - 30 10 3 P .M . 
Recess for blasting : 3 to 3 - 30 P. M . 

Third Session : 3 - 30 to 6 P. M . 
t. It is the contention of labour that the lunch hour is unduly long and should 
be reduced by half an hour. Labour further contends that the half hour recess 
for blasting is unnecessary , and that the blasting should be done within the recess 
of 12 and 1 . In other words labour complaing that the recesses taken together 
are too long, and should be reduced by one hour, so that the workmen may not 
be required to hand around unduly . 

5 . I have sympathy with the view that the workmen should not have to remain 
around any longer than is necessary, even though they may be living at or near 
the quarry . But the subject is not free from difficulty . This particular quarry 
covers an area of 11 acres out of the total area of 23 acres . The remaining area 
of 21 + acres is partly let out to others on royalty and is otherwise vacant. Next 
to the quarry of the concern before me are five quarry areas in adjacent com 
partments taken by others on royalty from this firm ; they all blast at the same 
time between 3 and 3 - 30 P . M . Furthermore they have the same recegs hours ; and 
1t has been pointed out to me that while there are about 200 to 300 workers on 
the whole lot , I am asked to change the recess and blasting hours for the sake 
of just 12 permanent workers represented by the union . The union however , 
points out that there are altogether 40 persons engaged on this 15 acres for blast 
ing, transporting and breaking of rock , and that thus , apart from the 12 perma 
nent workers , there are some 30 others who are working there either under con 
tractors or some other system of engagement. The employers reply that the 
mechanical unit staff like the garage staff, drivers , and others connected with 
transport work , also have to go considerable distances in order to have their lunch . 
The job of the permanent worker is as stated to drill and to break the blasted 
rock ; and four of the workers are on the crushing machine. 

6 . I think it would be better if I were to deal first with the claim that the 
blasting hour should be incorporated within the present recess of 12 to 1 - 30 . or 
within the reduced recess as required by labour, between 12 and 1 . I have visit 
ed the site . This quarry area is alongside a main road and blasting is done under 
iicence issued by the Policc . Onc of the terms of the licence is that the blasting 
charges at a quarry shall not be exploded save between the hours mentioned in 
the licence, but no hours have been mentioned . It is however common ground 
that the blasting in this area is done between 3 and 3 - 30 P . M . after the Police have 
made arrangements for the stoppage of traffic along this road during this period 
of half an hour. It is not disputed that the Police likewise have to make similar 
arrangements during blasting at other places within the contiguous region . It is 
therefore evident that the Police have to adjust the timings of the different blast 
ings so as to provide for their own convenience in the matter of arrangements. 
They have fixed upon the period between 3 and 3 - 30 for this particular quarry 
areu , and the management cannot be blamed for this arrangement. Nor would 
it be easy to have the hours altered by the Police having regard to their other 
commitments ; and it has not been suggested that there are complaints from the 
other five quarries immediately adjacent to the quarry before me regarding the 
blasting hours . In the circumstances it is not possible to direct the management 
to change its blasting hours when in effect the management has very little or 
no control over the subject. 


7 . As regards the other claim , for the reduction of the 14 hour lunch recess to 
one hour, I have heard parties on their relevant contentions. As I have said 
before , the permanent staff under the management consists of just 12 workers of 
whom 4 are on the crushing machine. There are in addition a person to look 
after the managerial work ; a person who issues tools , gunpowder etc ; a mukka 
dam ; and the foreman of the crushing section . These last four have to go far 
in order to secure their midday mcal and have not asked for any reduction in 
the lunch recess , whereas the permanent workers have their habitation near the 
quarry . Then again I have to consider the mechanical and transport staff who 
also have to go some distance in order to secure their midday meal. They have 
not complained that the recess is too long. It may be that the 12 permanent 
workmen can do with half hour less for their lunch interval, but I am bound to 
balance the requirements of the other persons when deciding whether the recess 
hours should be reduced . Upon a consideration of the matter I do not feel that 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


Sec. $ (ii) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVÉMBER 29, 1988/ ÁGRAHAYANÁ 8, 1880 2615 

- - - -- -- - - - -- 
I would be justified in directing a reduction of the lunch hour recess from 1 ! 
hours to 1 hour, and in coming to this decision I have naturally been influenced 
by circumstances like the situation of the quarry and facilities which are available 
to the staff for securing a meal and rest in the vicinity , and the prevailing practice 
in the area . 

8 . In the result I am unable to grant the two claims which have been pressed 
by labour. 

9. Now , therefore , I make an award in terms aforesaid . 
The 3rd November , 1958 . 

( Sd.) F . JHLJEBBHOY, 
Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal of India , 
functioning as the Sole Member, Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, with headquarters at 

Bombay. 


[No. LRII / 83 (8 ) / 58.] 
S . O . 2483. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the M / 3. S . K . Sahana and Sons ( P ) Ltd . and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 37 OF 1958 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Mica Mines of Messrs. S . K . Sahana and Sons 
Limited 

AND 
Their workmen . 
Dated the 31st October, 1958. 
PRESENT: 

Shri Salim M . Merchant, B . A ., LL . B ., Chairman . 
APPEARANCEA : 
Shri R . B . Sahana , Director, Messrs S . K . Sahana & Sons Ltd . - for the 

emplovers . 
Shri Yash Raj Singh , General Secretary , Mica Labour Union for the 

workmen . 
State : Bihar, 

Industry : Mica . 
AWARD 


The Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, by Order 
No. LRII / 6 ( 3 ) / 58 dated 11th June , 1958 made in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 (XIV of 47 ) , was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the industrial dis 
pute between the parties above named regarding the question whether the refusal 
of the management to employ the 59 workers listed in the schedule to the paid 
order since 21st February, 1958 was justified and , if not, to what relief they 
are entitled 

2 . After the usual notices were issued , the written statement of claim on 
behalf of the workmen was Aled by Shri Yash Raj Singh General Secretary , 
Mica Labour Union on 30th June, 1958 and the written statement in reply was 
received from the employers Messrs. S . K , Sahana & Sons ( Private ) Limited 
on 3rd July , 1958 and the written statement was also received on behalf of the 
Joint Recelvers on 8th July , 1958 , When the dispute was fixed for hearing, the 
parties took several adjournments to reach a settlement and on the adjourned 
hearing on 30th October , 1958 the parties Aled a joint application recording the 
terms of settlement that had been reached between them and prayed that an 
award be made in terms thereof. A copy of the said application is annexed 
hereto and marked Annexure A and being satisfied that the terms of settlement 
are fair and reasonable , I hereby make an award in terms thereof, as far as they 
concern the subject matter of the dispute . 


2616THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /ACRAMAYANA 8 , 1880 [ Part II 
= = - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 

- - I 

- - - - - - - 
3 . No order as to costs , 
Dhanbad , the 31st October, 1958 . 

( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCHANT, Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE THE CHAIRMAN , CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 37 OF 1958 . 
M / s. S . K . Sahana & Sons Ltd . 

AND 
their workmen of Mines . 
We the parties to the dispute beg to state that we make the setilcment as 
follows: - - 

1 . The company has already re - employed in service 26 workmen out of 59 
workmen mentioned in the Schedule in Government Reference No . 37 of 1958 , 
as per list attached . 

2 . The management further agrees to reinstate the remaining 33 workmen no 
sooner they report for work . 

3 . It is further agreed that the management will make the payments in respect 
of monthly Bonus for August and September 1957 to the workers by the end of 
December 1958. 

4 . We the parties further pray , that the Tribunal may grant an Award in terms 
of the aforesaid agreement. 
Representative of workmen : 

(Sd .) YASH RAJ SINGH , 
General Secretary , 

Mica Labour Union . 
Dhanbad , 30th day of October 1958. 

(Sd.) R . B , SAHANA, 
For M / s . S . K . Sahana & Sons Ltd . 

representative of management. 
List of Labourers working in the mine 


Araria Mine. 

1 . Sri Şoman Singh . 
2 . Sri Lalit Chamar . 
3 . Sri Sogna Bhuta . 
4 . Sri Jagdish Bhuia , 
5 . Sri Laldhari Singh , 
R . Sri Dhanu Turl. 
7 . Sri Kewal Singh , 
8 . Sri Deoki Singh , 
9 . Sri Rohan Singh . 
10 . Sri Lakshman Ram . 
11. Sri Lalu Ram . 
12 . Sri Janki Mahto . 
13. Sri Kali Dusad . 
14 , Sri Bita Bhula . 

15 . Sri Gopal Turi, 
Kerwatarl Mine . 

1. Sri Badri Prosad . 
Mejhil Mine. 

1 . Sri Horil Barhi. 
2 . Sri Ramlall Dusadh , 
3 . Sri Bhiki Ram , 
4 . Srt Mahabir Dusadh 
5 . Sri Jan Kandu , 


Sec. 9 ( ix)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :NOVEMBER 29 , 1958/ AGRAHAYANA 8, 1880 2617 


- - -- -- - _ 


_ - - - 


- - - - - 


- - ---- - - - -- - - - - 


- -- - - - - - 


- -- - 


, , , . . 


7 . Sri Meghan Dusadh . 
7 . Sri Keramat Mian . 
8 . Sri Laldhari Singh . 
9 . Sri Lalit Bhula . 
10 . Sri Chhota Bhuia . 


Sd . YASH RAJ SINGH , 
Representative of workmeni 

Dhanbad , 
The 30th October 1958 . 


( Sd .) R . B . SAHANA, 

Director , 
M / s . S . K . Sahana & Sons Ltd , 
Representative of management . 

[No. LRII /6 ( 3) /58 ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1958 
S . O . 2484 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Noodit - Jitpur Colliery of 
India Iron and Steel Company Ltd , and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considera it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the reversion of Shri Ram Lall from the post of an office peon to the 
post of a Shalc picker by the management of Noodit - Jitpur Colliery is justified 
and if not , to what relieť is he entitled and from what date ? 

[No, LRII- 2 ( 157 ) 58. ] 

K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
S . O . 2485 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri Gurbhachan Singh Jabbi, Additional Chief Inspector of Mines , to 
be the Chief Inspector of Mines for all the territories to which the said Act 
extends , with elfect from the 20th November , 1958 , vice Shri Sarwan Singh 
Grewal, granted leave. 

[No. M .1.8 ( 37 ) 58. ] 
S. RANGASWAMI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
S . O . 2486 . - In pursuance of section 8 of the Employecs State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government herehy nominates Shri M . S . 
Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary to the Government ot India , Ministry of Finance , to 
be a member at the Standing Committee of the Employees State Insurance Cor 
poration in the place of Shri A . V . Venkateswaran , and makes the following 
further amendinent in the notifcation of the Goveroment of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment No , S . R . O . 2360 , dated the 5th October , 1950 , namely : 

In the said notification , for item ( 3 ) , the following item shall be substituted, 
namely : 
" ( 3 ) Shri M . S . Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance ." 

[ No . F. HI-1 ( 72 ) /58.] 


, 18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29 , 1958 /AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 [PART II 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


S . O . 2487. — In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1943 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri M . $ . Bhat 
lagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance to be a 
member of the Employees State Insurance Corporation in the place of Shri A . V . 
Venkateswaran , and makes the following further amendment in the notifcation 
ur the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. 
HI- I ( 196 ) / 57, dated the 15th March , 1958 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading Members , for item 5 , the follow 
mg item shall be substituted namely : 
“ 5 . Shri M . S . Bhatnagar, Joint Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance ." 

( No, F . HI- 1 ( 72 ) / 58. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
S . O . 2488 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7B of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes a 
National Industrial Tribunal with headquarters at Bombay and appoints Shri 
F . Jeejeebhoy, Chairman , Labour Appellate Tribunal, Bombay as the presiding 
Officer of that Tribunal. 

[No. LR - IV - 3 (40 ) / 38 -I.] 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 24th November 1958 
S . O . 2489, - - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the dispute 
exists between the Cantonment Boards specified in Schedule I hereto annexed 
and their workmen on one or more of the matters specifled in Schedule II 
hereto Annexed , being a dispute which is of such a nature that industrial 
establishments situated in more than one State are likely to be interested in , 
or aftected by, such dispute , 

And, whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that the dispute should 
be adjudicated by a National Tribunal: 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - gection ( IA ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute to the National Tribunal constituted by 
the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No . S . O . 2488 , dated the 24th November , 1958 , for adjudication . 

SCHEDULE I 
1 . Agra 

31. Jutogh 
2 . Ahmedabad 

32. Kamptee 
3 . Ahmednagar 

33. Kanpur 
4 . Allahabad 

34 . Kasauli 
8 . Almora 

35 . Kirkee 
6 . Amritsar 

36 . Khasyal 
7 . Ambala 

37 . Landour 
8 . Aurangabad 

38 . Lansdowne 
9 . Bakloh 

39. Lebong 
10 . Banaras 

40 Lucknow 
11. Badamibagh 

- 41. Mathura 
12 . Barrackpore 

42 . Meerut 
13 . Bareilly 

43 . Mhow 
14 . Belgaum 

44 . Morar 
15 . Chakrata 

45. Nainita ) 
10. Clement Town 

46 . Nasirabad 
17 . Dagshai. 

47. Pachmarhi 
18 . Dalhousie 

48 . Poona 
19 . Delhi 

19 . Ramgarh 
20 . Dehra Dun , 

50 . Ranikhet 
21 . Deolalt 

51. Roorkee 
22 . Dinapore 

52 Sagar 
23. Faizabad 

53. St. Thomas Mt. 
24. Fatehgarh 

54 , Secunderabad 
25 . Terozepore 

55 . Shahjahanpur 
26 . Jalapahar 

56 . Shillong 
27 . Jabalpur 

47 . Subathu 
08. Jhansi 

58. Wellington 
29 . Jammu 

K9 . Cannanore 
30 . Jullundur 

60 . Dehu Road , 


SEO. 3 ( it )1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 29, 1958 / AGRAHAYANA 8 , 1880 2619 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - 

SCHEDULE II 
1. Whether or not the services of the Cantonment Board workmen should 

be centralized ? 
2 . Whether promotions be given strictly according to seniority of the 

workmen If not, what should be the criteria for promotion and 

what should be seniority list in each category of workmen ? 
3. Whether or not the pay scales enjoyed by the Central Government 

employees should be made applicable to the workmen of the 
Cantonment Board ? If not, whether the pay scales of thc workmen 
of a Cantonment Board should be revised and refixed according 
to the pay scales applicable to workmen of the adjoining Munici 

pality ? 
4 . Whether or not the Cantonment Board workmen are entitled to the 

payment of dearness allowance at Central Government rates ? 
5 . Whether or not the contribution to the provident fund by the Board 

authority should be equal to that of the workmen ? 
6 . Whether or not the workmen should be allowed house rent allowance ? 
7 . Whether or not the Cantonment Board authorities be required to make 

a provision for payment of gratuity to their workmen at the time 

of their retirement. If so , at what rates ? 
8 . Whether or not 50 % of dearness allowance being paid to the workmen 

be merged with their pay ? 
9 . Whether or not the workmen and their dependents should be allowed 

free medical aid ? 
10 . Whether or not the workmen employed in essential services should be 

allowed festival and other holidays as are allowed to the office stall ? 
11 . Whether clouse ( e ) of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the Cantnoment Fund 

Servants Rules, 1937 is unreasonable ? If so in what manner should 

it be amended ? 
12 . Extension of service to the Cantonment Fund employecs at the time of 
their retirement. 

[No. LR -IV - 3 ( 40 ) / 58 - 11 , ] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd November 1958 
8.0 . 2490 . — The Central Government hereby : 
( a ) directs , in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern 

ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . R . O . 3805 , dated the 26th December , 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa 
tion and Broadcasting No . $ . 0 . 2134 , dated the 1st October, 1958 , that 
the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay 

shall consist of 32 members with immediate effect ; and 
( b ) appoints , after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors, 

Shrimati Chandrayati Lakhanpal, M . P ., as a Member of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub -rule 
( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 : 

[No. 11 / 1/ 58-FC.] 
D . R . KHANNA, Under Secy. 


II 


- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT . OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1958 


