REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Eazette um of # ndia 


WAH 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 28 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 23, 1958/BHADRA 1, 1880 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 14th August 
1958 . 


Issuc 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


116 G . S .R . 688 , dated the 9th Ministry of Finance · Draft of the Customs Duties 
August 1958. 

Drawback (Card Staves ) 

Rules, 1958 . 
117 G . S . R . 700 , dated the 13tlı Central Board of The Handicrafts (Manu 
August 1958 , 

Revenue. 

facture in Bond ) Rules 
1958 . 


118 G . S . R . 701, dated the 14th Ministry of Finance , Draft of an amendment to be 
August 1958 . 

made in the Customs and 
Central Excise Duties 
Drawback (Motor Vehicles ) 

Rules , 1958 . 
119 G . S . R . 702 , dated the 14th Ministry of Food and Amendment made in S . R . O . 
August 1958 . 

Agriculture . 

4157, dated the 30th Dec 
ember 1957 . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioncd above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART U - Section 3 – Sub -section (1) 
General Statutory Rules ( including orders , bye -laws etc . of a general 

character) issued by the Ministries of the Goyernment of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities ( other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 13th August 1958 
G . S . R . 705 . [ Contracts /Am . ( 32 ) ] . In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause ( 1 ) of article 299 of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the 

( 651 ) 


652 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1880 


PART II 


following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Law No. S . R . O . 3442 , dated the 2nd November , 1955 , 
relating to the execution of contracts and assurances of property namely 

In part XIII of the said notification , for item 3 which relates to the Films 
Division , the following item shall be substituted , namely : 

" 3 . In the case of the Films Division ( subject to the conditions laid down 
by the Central Government) - 
( i) contracts to be entered into with artists engaged by the Films Divi 

sion in connection with the production of Alms; 
(ii) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division ; 
( iii ) contracts relating to the running and maintaining of canteens at the 

premises of the Films Division ; 
( iv ) contracts for the sale of waste Alms, sweepings or other salyage 

material; 
( v ) contracts for the purchase of wooden packing boxes and other 

stores ; 
(vi) contracts for the servicing of cinematographic equipment and air -con 

ditioners ; 
( vii ) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern 

ment servants ; 
( viii ) contracts and other instruments for the production of films for Gov 

ernment by private producers ; 
( Lx ) contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase of Alras for 

the Films Division ; 
( x ) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of full 

length films released by the Films Division ; and 
( xi) contracts for the sale of stock - shots; by the Controllers of Administra 

tion , Films Division , Bombay . 
( xii) All contracts for the exhibition of films approved and released by the 

Government of India ; contracts relating to the non - commercial 
exhibition of films produced and released by the Films Division ; 
and contracts pertaining to the exhibition of Alms free of rentals 
and contracts for the sale of prints ; by the Officer - in - charge of 

Distribution , Films Division , Bombay 
( xill) All contracts relating to the commercial distribution of Films Division s 

Alms in foreign countries; by the Controller of Administration , Films 
Division , Bombay , or by the Head of the Indian Information Services 
or the Head of the Chancery in the Indian Mission in the country 
in which the distributors are incorporated . ! 

[ No. F . 44 ( 1 ) / 57 - J. ] 
P . K . BOSE , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 14th August 1958 
G . S . R . 706 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of rule 
BB of order XXVII of the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 
( 5 of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend 
ments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law 
No. S. R .O . 3920 , dated the 5th December, 1957, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , under item 14, relating to Delhi, 
( 1) in column 2 of part (a ) for the entry 
Shri Inder Dev Dua, Central Government Counsel the entry "Shri Jindra 

Lal, Central Government Counsel shall be substituted. 
( ii) in column 2 of part ( b ) , item ( 1) shall be omitted . 

[No. F . 49 ( 2 ) / 56 - J. ] 
B . N . LOKUR , Joint Secy . 


SEC . 9(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958, BFIADRA 1, 1880 


he 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 13th August 1958 
G . S . R . 707. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Lacca 
dive Islands and Minicoy Regulation , 1912 ( Regulation No. 1 of 1912 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby makes the following rules, namely : 

1. No order shall be made by the Central Government against any person 
under section 33 of the Laccadive Islands and Minicoy Regulation , 1912, without 
an inquiry being held in the matter and without considering the report of the 
inquiring Officer : 

Provided that in the case of an order made under clause ( a ) of section 33, no 
such inquiry need be held if the order is for a temporary period not exceeding 
one month . 

2 . The inquiry referred to in rule 1 shall be held by the Administrator or such 
other officer as the Central Government may appoint and , in making any such 
inquiry the Inquiring Omccr shall follow the procedure laid down in rule 3 . 

3. ( a ) The Inquiring Officer shall cause a notice to be served on the person ; 

( b ) such notice shall contain the grounds on which the Central Government 
proposes to make an order under section 33 and shall require him , within the 
period stated in the notice, to show causc why such order should not be made; 

( c ) after considering the cause, if any, the Inquiring Omcer shall take such 
evidence as may be produced before him , 

( 4 ) On completion of the inquiry , the Inquiring Omcer shall submit his 
report together with the proceedings to the Central Government for orders. 

[No. 71/ 19 ( 2 )/ 58 -ANL.) 
B . N . MAHESHWARI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 13th August 1958 
G . S . R . 708 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951 ), and in supersession of the 
Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 13 / 2 / 58 - AIS - III , dated the 11th April, 
1958 , the Central Government, after consultation with the Governments of the 
States concerned , hereby makes the following amendments in the Indian Admin 
istrative Service ( Regulation of Seniority ) Rules , 1954. 

Amendments 
In rule 4 of the said Rules, (i) for sub - rule ( 3 ) , the following shall be sub 
stituted , namely : 
“ ( 3 ) The seniority of officers appointed to the Service after the commence 

ment of these rules and beforc the 11th day of April, 1958, who are 
assigned the same year of allotment shall be in the following order , 

that is to say 
( i ) officers appointed to the Service on the results of a competitive 

examination in accodrance with rule 7 of the Recruitment Rules 
ranked inter se in accordance with rule 10 of the Indian Administra 

tive Service ( Probation ) Rules, 1954 ; 
( ii) officers appointed to the Scrvice by promotion in accordance with sub 

rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the Recruitment Rules ranked inter se in the 

order of the date of their appointment: 
Provided that if the date of appointment of more than one such officer is 

the same, their seniority inter se shall be in the order in which their 
names are arranged on the date of their appointment to the Service 
in the Select List prepared having regard to the requirements of the 
Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by Promotion ) Regu 
lations framed under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the Recruitment 

Rules . 
( iii) officers appointed to the Service by selection in accordance with sub 

rule ( 2 ) of rule 8 of the Recruitment Rules ranked inter se in the 
order in which their names are arranged by the Commission for the 
purpose of selection to the Indian Administrative Service . " ; 


654 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - AUGUST 23, 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1880 ( PART II 
-- - 

(ii ) after sub - rule ( 3 ) so substituted, the following sub - rule shall be inserted , 
namely : - 
“ ( 4 ) The seniority of officers appointed to the Service on or after the 11th 

day of April, 1958 , who are assigned the same year of allotment shall 

be in the following order, that is to say , 
(i ) officers appointed to the Service on the results of a competitive 

examination in accordance with rule 7 of the Recruitment Rules and 
officers appointed to the Service by promotion in accordance with 
sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of those Rules ranked inter se in the order 
of the dates on which they start officiating continuously in senior 
posts , the date of officiation in the case of the latter officers being 
the same as the date taken into account for the purpose of assign 

ment of year of allotment under sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 3 : 
Provided that , 
( a ) the seniority inter se of officers appointed to the Service on the results 

of competitive cxamination in accordance with rule 7 of the Recruit 
ment Rules and ranks in accordance with rule 10 of the Indian 
Administrative Service ( Probation ) Rules , 1954 , shall not be affect 

ed ; 
(b ) where the date of commencement of continuous officiation in a senior 

post of an officer appointed to the Service in accordance with rule 7 
of the Recruitment Rules is the same as that of an officer appointed 
to the Service under sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of those Rules , the 

former shall rank senior to the other officer ; 
where the date of commencement of continuous officiation in senior 

posts of more than one officer appointed to the Service in accordance 
with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the Recruitment Rules is the same, 
their seniority inter se shall be in the order of their dates of appoint 
ment to the Service , and where the date of appointment is also the 
same, in the order in which their names are arranged on the date of 
their appointment to the Service in the Select List prepared having 
regard to the requirements of the Indian Administrative Service 
( Appointment by Promotion ) Regulations framed under sub -rule ( 1 ) 

of rule 8 of the Recruitment rules. 
( ii ) officers appointed to the Servire by selection in accordance with sub 

rulc ( 2 ) of rule 8 of the Recruitment Rules ranked inter se in the 
order, in which their names are arranged by the Commission the 
purpose of selection to the Service." 

( No. 13 / 2 / 58 -AIŞ - III- B . ] 


( c ) 


G . S . R . 709. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sect - on ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act , 1951 (61 of 1951 ) , and in supersession of the 
Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 13 / 2 /58 -AIS - III - A dated the 11th 
April , 1958 , the Central Government, after consultation with the Governments of 
the States concerned , hereby makes the following amendments in the Indian 
Police Service ( Regulation of Seniority ) Rules, 1954 . 

Amendments 
In rule 4 of the said Rules, ( i) for sub - rulc ( 3 ) , the following shall be sub 
stituted, namely : 
" ( 3 ) The seniority of officers appointed to the Service after the commence 

ment of these rules and before the 11th day of April, 1958 , who are 
assigned the same year of allotment shall be in the following order , 

that is to say 
( i) officers appointed to the Service on the results of a competitive 

examination in accordance with rule 7 of the Recruitment Rules 
ranked inter se in accordance with rule 10 of the Indian Police 

Şervice ( Probation ) Rules , 1954 ; 
( ii) officers appointed to the Service by promotion in accordance with rule 

9 of the Recruitment Rules ranked inter se in the order of the date 

of their appointment: 
Provided that if the date of appointment of more than one such officer is 

the same, their seniority inter se shall be in the order in which 
their names are arranged on the date of their appointment to the 


Sec . 3 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23. 1958 / BIIADRA 1, 1880 


655 


Service in the Select List prepared having regard to the requirements 
of the Indian Police Service ( Appointment by Promotion ) Regula 

tions framed under rule 9 of the Recruitment Rules." ; 
( ii ) after sub - rule ( 3 ) so substituted , the following sub - rulc shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" ( 4 ) The seniority of officers appointed to the Service on or after the 11th 

day of April, 1958 who are assigned the same year of allotment shall 
be in the order of the dates , on which they start officiating conti 
nuously in senior posts , the dates of officiation in the case of officers 
appointed to the Service in accordance with rule 9 of the Recruit 
ment Rules being the same as the dates taken into account for the 
purpose of assignment of year of allotment under sub - rule ( 3 ) of 

rule 3 ; 
Provided that , 
( a ) the seniority inter se of officers appointed to the Service on the results 

of a competitive examination in accordance with rule of the 
Recruitment Rules and ranked in accordance with rule 10 of the 

Indian Police Service (Probation ) Rules, 1954 , shall not be affected ; 
( b ) where the date of commencement of continuous officiation in a senior 
post of an officer appointed to the Service in accordance with rule 7 

. . . . the Recruitment Rules is the same as that of 
an officer appointed to the Service under rule 9 of those Rules , the 

former shall rank senior to the other officer ; 
( c ) where the date of commencement of continuous officiation in sentor 

posts of more than one officer appointed to the Service in accordance 
with rule 9 of the Recruitment Rules is the same, their seniority 
inter se shall be in the order of their dates of appointment to the 
Service , and where the date of appointment is also the same in the 
order in which their names are arranged on the date of their appoint 
ment to the service in the Select List prepared having regard to the 
requirements of the Indian Police Service ( Appointment by Promo 
tion ) Regulations framed under rule 9 of the Recruitment Rules ." . 

[ No. 13 / 2/ 58-AIS-III-C .] 


of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .t 


e 


New Delhi, the 16th August 1958 


G . S . R . 710 . - In exercise, of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , in so far as it applies to the officers of the Secretary of State s 
Services serving in connection with the affairs of the Union , the President hereby 
makes the following amendments in the Secretary of State s Services (General 
Provident Fund ) Rules, 1943 : 

Amendments 
In the said Rules, 

( 1 ) in rule 9 - A , at the end of clause ( a ) the following shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" or reconstructing, or making additions or alterations to , a house already 

owned or acquired by a subscriber without any withdrawal from the 
Fund , or without any loan from the Consolidated Bund of India or 

the Consolidated Fund of a State." ; 
( 2 ) in rule 9 - B , 
( a ) for clause (b ) of sub -rule ( 1) , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( b ) in the case of building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence , 

the actual cost of the house including the cost of the site or the 
amount required for repayment of the loan taken for this purpose 
and in the case of reconstructing , or making additions or alterations 

to , a house already owned or acquired by him , ten thousand rupees ," ; 
(b ) in sub -rule (2 ), for the words " the construction of" , the words " constructing , 
reconstructing , or making additions or alterations to ," shall be substituted ; 

(3 ) in sub -rule ( 1) of rule 9- D , 


656 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958 /BHADRA 1, 1880 


[Part II 


( 1) in clause ( a ), for the word " that" occurring in the opening portion , the 
words " that, except in the case of withdrawal for reconstructing, or making 
additions or alteraticns to , a house under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A ," shall be 
substituted ; 
(ii) the fo lowing shall be inserted as clause (6 ), namely : 
" ( g ) that in the case of withdrawal for reconstruction of, or making additions 

cr alterations to , a house under clause ( a ) of rule 9 - A , the work shall 
commence within six months from the date of such withdrawal und 
shall be completed within a period of one year from such commence 

ment." 
2 . The amendments hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 23rd March , 1957 . 


[ No. 13 / 13 / 58 - AIS ( III) - C . ] 

S . P , MUKERJEE , Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 16th August 1958 
G . S . R . 711. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 
309 and clause ( 5 ) of Article 148 of the constitution , and after consultation with 
the Copmtroller agd Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Central Civil Services ( Temporary 
Service ) Rules , 1949, namely : 

In the said rule , 
1. to Rule 9, the following proviso, shall be added , namely : 

" Provided that this rule shall not apply to persons borne on establishments 
to which Contributory Provident Fund benefits are attached " ; 
2 . for Rule 10 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely : 
" 10 . Where a Government servant in quasi- permanent service is appoint 

ed subtantively to a permanent pensionable post, the entire period 
of quasi-permanent service rendered by him , after attaining the 
minimum age prescribed after which service qualifies for pension , 
shall be deemed to be qualifying service for the grant of gratuity 
and pension or gratuity , as the case may be" . 

[No. 55/ 116 /52- NGS( T.S.). ] 
K . N . V . NAMBISAN , Dy. Secy 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 18th August 1958 
G . S . R . 712 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 59 - B of the 
Administrator General s Act, 1913 ( 3 of 1913 ) , as amended by the Adaptation of 
Laws (No. 2 ) Order, 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the estates 
mentioned in the schedule below which at present vest in the Administrator Gene 
ral, Madras, shall hereafter vest in the Administrator General, Kcrala . 


Nume of Estate , 


Present value 


Date of 
vesting 


Place where 

the assets 
were situate 

at the time 
of vesting 


16 - 6 - 1942 


Tellicherry 
(Now in 
Kerala State ) 


Rs. 36 ,200 / 
(approximate ) 


1. Estatc of 

Charles 
Henry Brown 

( deceased ) 
2 . Estate of 

Draupadi 
Bai Kamath 


24 -3 - 1947 


Port , Cochin 

Rs. 1, 500 / 
(now in 

(approximate 
Kerala State ) 

[No. 8 / 5 /57 - SR ( R ). ] 
D . D . GOTHI, Under Secy . 


Sec. 2(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1880 

1 


657 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 191h August 1958 

FOREIGNERS (PROTECTED AREAS ) ORDER , 1958 
G . S . R . 713 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Foreig 
nors Act, 1946 (31 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
order , namely : 

1 . Short title , commencement and application .- ( 1 ) This order may be called 
the Foreigners (Protected Areas ) Order , 1958 . 

( 2 ) It shall come into force at once. 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Foreigners (Exemption ) 
Order, 1957 it shall apply to all foreigners . 
Definitions. — In this order 
( a ) " Protected area" means any border area falling beyond the inner line 

as described in Schedule I. 
( b ) " Schedule" means a Schedule to this Order . 
3 . Restrictions on entry into protected areas. - No foreigner shall enter into 
or remain in , any protected area except under and in accordance with a permit 
issued by the Central Government or any officer authorised by the Central Gov 
ernment in this behalf. 

4 . Form of permit. - A permit issued under paragraph 3 shall be in the form 
spccified in Schedule II and shall contain the following particulars , namely : 

( a ) the place of entry into the protected area ; 
( b ) the place of residence , if any, in the protected area ; 
( c ) the period for which the permit shall be valid ; 

( d ) the conditions subject to which the permit is granted . 
5 . Foreigners Order , 1948 not affected . The provisions of this Order are in 
addition to , and not in derogation of, the provisions of paragraph 9 of the Foreign 
ers Order , 1948, 


SCHEDULE I 
The Inner Line runs as follows: 

PUNJAB 
Kangra District. From Shingo La pass along the Barsi Nala stream to Darcha 
(Sumdo ) . From Darcha along the Bhaga river to Bara Lacha La pass. From the 
Bara Lacha La pass along the Chandra river to Shigri. From Shigri along the 
Bara Shigri stream to the Sara Umga pass and along the Tos stream to Barsheni. 
From Barsheni along the Parbati river 10 Kokshane peak . 


HIMACHAL PRADESH 


Mahasu District. From Kokshane peak along the Snorang Gad steam to 
Bara Kamba. From Bara Kamba along the Sutlej stream to Tapri. From Tapri 
along the Dulang Gad stream to Sharangchu pass , Buran pass and Rupin pass , 
From Rupin pass along the Rupin Gad stream to Sewa Dogri. 

UTTAR PRADESH 
Tehri District. From Sewa Dogri along the Rupin river to Naintwar. From 
Naintwar along the Tons river to Sandra, From Sandra along the Garu Gad 
stream to Jarmola . From Jarmola along the Kamola stream to Thali. From 
Thali along the Jamuna river to Madhes. From Madhes along the Hanuman 
Ganga stream to Bamsaru Khal. From Bamsaru Khal along the Kanuldia Gad 
stream to Joti. From Joti along the road running along the western bank of 
the Bhagirathi river to Sainj. From Sainj to the Adala peak and along the Dharm 
Ganga stream to Jhala Chatti and Budha Kedar ( Thati Kathur) . From Budha 
Kedar along the Bal Ganga stream to Ghansali. From Ghansali along the Bhil 
langana river to Chah . From Chah to the Takoll Gad stream and along the Takoli 
Gad Stream to its junction with the Alaknanda river . 

Garhwal District. – From the Takoli Gad - Alaknanda junction along the motor 
road south of Alaknanda river to Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag. From Karna 
prayag long the Pindar river to Kunwari. 


658 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 /BHADRA 1, 1880 


[Part II 


Almora District. From Kunwari along the Siskhani ridge to peak 10542 and 
Loharkhet. From Loharkhet to Leti and Danda and along the Ramganga river to 
Nachani. From Nachani along the Bhujpatri Gad stream to Dhamigaon , From 
Dháinigaon along the Goriganga river to Jarajibli ( Jauljibi) on the Nepal-India 
Frontier. 


auljibi tº Dhamirea riverand 


Sikkim and Bhutan . - The Inner Line follows the southern borders of Sikkim 
and Bhutan . 


North East Frontier Agency ; and Naga Hills Tuensang area . — The Inner Line 
follows the southern borders of the Kameng, Subansiri and Siang Frontier Divi 
sion of the Nefa as also the southern border of the Lohit Frontier Division upto 
the Bali Jan river from where it follows the western borders of the Lohit and 
Tirap Frontier Divisions and the erstwhile Naga Hills District to the tri- junction 
of Manipur, the erstwhile Naga Hills District and the United District of Mikir 
and North Cachar Hills exccpt that in the Dimapur Railway Station area , the Inner 
Line lies along the Dhansiri river where it leaves the boundary of the erstwhile 
Naga Hills District in the North upto where it joins the boundary in the South . 


Manipur. - From the trljunction of Manipur, the erstwhile Naga Hills District 
and the United District of Mikir and North Cachar Hills , the Inner Line follows 
the western boundary of Manipur to the point of its junction with the northern 
border of the Lushai Hills (Mizo ) District of Assam . 


Lushai Hills . (Mizo ) District. From the junction of the Western borders of 
Manipur and the northern and western borders of the Lushai Hills (Mizo ) District, 
the Inner Line follows the northern border of the Lushai Hills (Mizo ) District , 


SCHEDULE II 


PERMIT 


Date : 


Registration No: 

[Under para 3 of the Foreigners (Protected Areas ) Order, 1958 ]. 


Mr/Mrs /Miss . 
residing at 
dated the 
via 
of 


national, 
holder of passport No . 
is hereby permitted to enter the Protected Areas 
and to reside in the protected area for purposes 
at place ( s ) , from 


to 


2. He / She shall , while residing in the said Areas, comply with the conditions 
specified below . 
3 . M . 

shall not remain in the said Areas after the . . . . . 

unless he / she has obtained the prior permission of authority 
who issued the permit. Application for any extension of the period of this 
permit must be made at least seven days before its expiry . 


( Issuing Authority ) 

( Seal) 


Place : 


Date. 


* Conditions, if any, to be specified by the Issuing Authority . 


[No. 8 / 49 / 56 - F .L 


SEC . 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 /BHADRA 1, 1880 


659 


- - - 


G . S . R . 714 . — The following draft of certain further amendments which it is 
proposed to make in the Registration of Foreigners Rules , 1939 , in pursuance of 
section 3 of the Registration of Foreigners Act , 1939 ( 16 of 1939 ) , is published as: 
required by the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration 
by the Central Government on or after the 1st September , 1958 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect. 
to the draft before the said date will be considered by the Central Government. 


Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules 

1. In clausę ( j) of rule 2, the words " and who has been granted a Certificate ct 
Registration in Form " D " , shall be omitted . 
2 . After rule 4 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely 
" 4A , Report by foreigners of arrival in and departure from , India by land 

Every foreigner who enters or leaves India by land shall, on being 
required so to do by the Registration Omccr of the place of arrival or 
departure , as the case may be , furnish to him a true statement of the 

particulars set out in Form D " , 
3. In rule 5 – 
(a ) for sub -rule (1 ), the following sub- rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 1 ) Every foreigner entering India shall present in person to the 

appropriate Registration Officer specified in rule 6 , a report (herein 
after referred to as a registration report ) of his arrival in India 

within the time specified in that rule : 
Provided that no such report shall be necessary in the case of a foreigner 

who enters India on a visa valid for a period of not more than 

thirty days : 
Provided further that a purdah -nashin woman who is accompanied by a 

male companion will not be required to present the registration 

report in person but may do so through her male companion : 
Provided further that the Registration Omcer may, in his discretion , 

dispense with personal attendance for the purpose of presentation of 

the registration report." 
( b ) in sub -rule ( 2 ), the words in the case of a foreigner , who is not a 

" tourist " ) shall be omitted : 
( c) sub -rule (2 - A ) shall be omitted ; 
(d ) in sub - rule (3 ), for the words, brackets, figures and letters " sub - rules 

( 2 ) and ( 2 - A )" the words, brackets and figure sub -rule ( 2 ) shall be: 

substituted ; 
( e) in sub -rule (5 ), the word and letter " and D " shall be omitted . 


4 . For the words a British subject and British subject wherever they occur, 
the words an Indian Citizen and " Indian Citizen shall respectively be substituted . 
5 . For rule 6 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 

" 6. Procedure for registration . 
(1) The registration report shall be presented 
( a ) in the case of a foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a stay 

in India for a period of more than thirty days but less than ninety 
days, to the Registration Officer having jurisdiction in the place where 
the said foreigner is present at the time of the presentation of such 

report ; 
( b ) in the case of a foreigner who enters India on a visa valid for a stay 

In India for a period of ninety days or more, to the Registration . 
Officer of the port or other place of arrival. 


660 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1890 


(PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


( 2 ) The registration report shall be presented 
(a ) in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 1 ) . 

immediately after the expiry of thirty days of his arrival in India : 
(b ) in the case of a foreigner referred to in clause (b ) of sub -rule ( 1 ) . 

within seven days of his arrival in India . 
(3 ) Every foreigner presenting a registration report shall furnish to the 

Registration Oficer such information as may be in his possession for 
the purpose çf satisfying the said officer as to the accuracy of the 
particulars specified therein und shall, on heing required so to do , sign 
the registration report in the presence of the said officer and shall 
ther eupon be entitled to receive from the said officer a Certificate of 

Registration in Part III of Form A : 
Provided that , in any case in which the registration report is presented , in 

accordance with clause (b ) of sub - rule ( 1) , by a foreigner whcse 
address in India is not within the jurisdiction of the Registration 
Officer of the port or other place of arrival in India , a temporary 
certificate in Form B shall be issued and the said foreigner shall 

thereafter comply with the conditions set out in Form B : 
Provided further that any foreigner whoso passport or other documents of 

identification do not , in the opinion of the Registration Officer . 
provide adequate proof of identity , shall be required to furnish to 
the Registration Omcer , within such period of presenting his regis 
tration report as such officer may fix , either four copies of a photo 
graph of himself of passport size , one of which shall be affixed to 
Part III of Form A and over - stamped with the stamp of the Regis 
tration Officer or four complete sets of his finger impressions, one 
of which shall be made on Part III of Form A , whichever the 
Registration Officer may require. The ſinger impressions shall be 
made in the presence of the Registration Omcer and each set attest 
ed by him . 


d . In rule 7 
( a ) in sub - rule ( 1 ), for the words " he may issue to the said foreigner a 

Certificate of Registration in Form " D " , the words " he may endorse 
on the certificate of Registration if any, the word " tourist" and also 

record therein the date of its expiry " shall be substituted ; 
(b ) for sub -rule (2 ), the following shall be substituted , namely 
" ( 2 ). The validity of the certiAcate of registration issued to a tourist shall 

be co - extensive with the validity of the visa on the authority of 

which he entered India and shall not ordinarily exceed three months : 
Provided that if the said certificate is expressed to be valid for a period of 

less than three months, the period of validity of such certificate may , 
on sufficient cause being shown by the said tourist , be extended by 
any Registration Oncer , subject to the condition that the validity 

shall not ordinarily extend beyond three months after the date on 

which the said tourist entered India . 
(c ) for sub -rule ( 4 ) , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 4 ) Any tourist who is in India after the date of expiry of his certificate of 

Registration shall cease to be a tourist within the meaning of these 

rules." 
7 . In sub -rule (6 ) of rule 14 , after the words " Registration Officer" the words 
" and to the Government of India in the Ministry of Ilome Affairs" , shall be inserted , 

8 . In sub -rule (2 ) of rule 15m for the word and letter Form E , the word and 
letter Form D shall be substituted , 

for rulę 16 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely , 
“ 16 . Obligations of Masters of Vessels etc. - ( 1 ) The master or the person 

having management of any vessel arriving at or leaving any place in 

India shall 
( a ) require any person who intends to disembark from , or embark on any 

such vessel for the purpose of entering or leaving India , to furnish 
in writing a true statement of the particulars set out in Form D ; 


SEC . 8(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958 / BHADRA I, 1880 


661 


= 


(b ) cause Form D to be delivered to the Registration Omcer at the place 

of arrival or departure ; 
(c ) take steps to ensure that no foreigner embarks until authorised so to 

do by the Registration Officer ; 


( d ) if so requested by the Registration Officer require any forcign passenger 

about to depart from India to surrender his certificate of Registra 
tion , and deliver such certificate to the Registration Oficer ; 


( e ) if so required by the Registration Officer , furnish on arrival at the 

said place a true statement in writing showing the name and 
nationality of every seamen employed on such vessel, and at the 
time of departing from such place take such steps as the Registra 
tion Officer may specify to ascertain whether or not any such sea 
man as aforesaid who is a foreigner is about to depart on board 
such vessel; and 


( f) generally , render to the Registration Omcer such assistance as he 

may reasonably require for carrying out the purpose of the Act 
and these rules . 


( 2 ) The master or the person having the management of any vessel arriv 

ing at, or leaving any place in India by Sea shall also furnish , before 
any passenger dis - embarks or embarks, to the Registration Officer of 
any such place , a passenger manifest in Form E . 


( 3 ) Every particular , other than the signature of a foreign passenger which 

is required by this rule to be recorded in Form D , shall be recorded 


( a ) if the passenger is able to write in English language, by the passenger 

and in the English language ; 


( b ) if the passenger is unable to write in the English language, by the 

master of the vessel or by any person having the management of 
such vessel or by any seaman authorised in this behalf by such 
master or person , in the English language, or, where no such person 
as aforesaid is able to write in the English language , in an Indian 
language . 


( 4 ) If a foreign passenger does not understand the English language , il 

shall be the duty of the master of the vessel, if so requested , to 
explain to the foreign passenger the requirements of this rule . 


( 5 ) Form E shall be completed in the English language, or, where no sea 

man on board the vessel is able to write in the English language, in 
an Indlan language. 


(6 ) Copies of Forms D and E may be obtained , on applicatlon , from any 

Registration Omcer ." 


10. In Form A 

( a ) after itcm 16, the following item shall be inserted namely 

" 17. Date of expiry of registration ( Tourists only ) . . . . . . .. . . . ." . 
( b ) In the notice, after paragraph 3, the following paragraph shall be 

inserted , namely 


“ 4 . Exemption for tourists -- A foreigner registered as a tourist is exempt 

from making the report speciflcd in para 1 ( II ) and 1 ( III ) till the 

date specified on this certificate , He/She should surrender this 
certificate at the time of departure to the Registration Officer of 
the place from where he / she proposes to leave India or to such 
authority as the said officer may appoint in this behalf." 


662 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 / BILADRA 1, 1880 - [PART II 


- - 


- 


- 


= = - - 


11. For Forms C ,D ,E ,F and G the following shall be substituted , namely : - - 

FORM C 


THE REGISTRATION OF FOREIGNERS RULES 1939, HOTEL ARRIVAL 

REPORT. 

Form C (Rules 10 and 14 ) 
1 . Name of Hotel: 
2. ( a ) Name of foreign visitor in full ( in block capitals, surname Arst) , 

(b ) Number of persons in the family (if accompanying the visitor ) ; 
3. Nationality : 
4 . Address in India : 
5 . Date of arrival: 

( a ) in India 

(b ) in the hotel: 
6 . Arrived from : 
7. Mode of Transport used : 
8 . Business in India : 
8 . Date of proposed departure : 
10 . Probable destination : 
11, Number , date and office of issue of Certifcate of Registration : 


Manager s signature . 
( To be completed in triplicate ) . 


THE REGISTRATION OF FOREIGNERS RULES , 1939. 


FORM D 


EMBARKATION / DISEMBARKATION - CARD 


( Rules 4A , 15 and 16 ) 

Mr. 
1. Name in full Mrs . 

Miss 

Maiden name 
2 . Date of Birth 

3. Place of birth 
4 . Nationality 

5 . Occupation 
6 . Home address 
7. (a ) For arriving passengers - - Port of embarkation 
7 . (b ) For Passengers leaving - Port of disembarkation 
8. ( a ) For arriving passengers — intended address 
8 . ( b ) For passengers leaving -- Last address 
9 . Purpose of visit 
10 . Expected duration of stay 
11, Passport No. 
12. Place and date of issue 

(Signature of passenger ) with date 


SEC. 8(1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958/ BHADRA 1, 1880 


663 


- 


. 


THE REGISTRATION OF FOREIGNERS RULES, 1939. 

FORM E 

(Rule 18 ) 
Į (Passenger Manifest ) 


Name of Shipping Company 
Name of vessel 
Port and date of embarkation / disembarkation 


Name of 


S . No. 


Passenger 


i Port of Embarkation 


I 


Port of Disembarkation 


- - 


- 


- 


[No. 4 / 2 /58 - F . 1. ] 
FATEH SINGH, Joint Secy . 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 18th August 1958 
G . S . R . 16 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of thc Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persons serving in the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Civil Service Regulations, namely : 
In the said Regulations 
Below article 920 ( 1) , the following Note shall be inserted , namely : -- 
" NOTE , — For the purpose of this article , a declaration , as spccifed below , 

shall be obtained from the retiring officer or a member of his 
family or his legal heir / s, as the case may be, by the authority 
sanctioning the pension / family pension / service gratuity / death - cum 

retirement gratuity / arrears of pension or gratuity : - - 
" Whereas the . . . . . . . . (here state the designation of thc officer sanctioning 

the pension / family pension / service gratuity / death - cum - retirement 
gratuity / arrears of pension or gratuity ) has consented to grant me/ 
us the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . a month as the amount of my pension / 
family pension and / or the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . as the amount 
of gratuity / death - cum -retirement gratuity / arrears of pension or 
gratuity due to Shr / Shrimati . . . . . . . . . . . . (here give the name and 
designation or the Government servant ) 1 / we hereby acknowledge 
that in accepting this amount I /we fully understand that the pension / 
family pension / gratuity / death - cuin - retirement gratuity / arrears of pen 
sion or gratuity due to Shri / Shrimati . . . . . . is subject to revision on its 
being found to be in excess of that to which 1 / we am / are entitled 
under the rules , and I /we promise to base no objection to such 
revision , I /we further promise to repay any amount advanced to 
me / us in excess of that to which I / wc may be eventually found 
entitled , " 

[No. F . 7 (81) - EV /57 .] . 
C . B . GULATI, Dy. Secy . 


604 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1980 


(Pakr II 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1958 
G . S . R . 716 . - - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 29 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby gives notice of 
its intention to make with cifect from the 1st day of December 1958 , the following 
amendments to Form A (Form of Balance Sheet) and Form B (Form of Profit 
and Loss Account) set out in the Third Schedule to the said Act, namely : 
1. In Form A , Form of Balance Sheet 
( a ) for the words (in abbreviation ) " Rs, A . P ." , wherever they occur, the 

words ( in abbreviation ) “ Rs. nP ” shall be substituted ; and 


(b ) after the Notes set out therein , the following shall be inserted : 
" General instructions : The corresponding Agures for the year immediate 

ly preceding the year to which the balance - sheet relates should 
be shown in separate cçlumns." 


2. In Form B , Form of Proſt and Loss Account 


( a ) for the words (in abbreviation ) " Rs. A . P ." , wherever they cccur, the 

words (in abbreviation ) " Rs, np shall be substituted ; and 


(b ) after the footnote the following shall be inserted : 


" General instructiuns : The corresponding figures for the year imme 

diately preceding the year to which the profit and loss account re 
lates should be shown in separate columns." 


[ No. 4 (96 ) - F . 1 / 57. ) 
R . K . SESHADRI, Dy . Secy . 


(Department of Revepue ) 


MEDICAL AND TOILET PREPARATIONS 


New Delhi, the 16th August 1958 


G . S . R . 717 .- In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the 
Medicinal and Toilet Preparations ( Excise Duties ) Act, 1955 ( 16 of 1955 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Medicinal and Tollet Preparations ( Excise Duties ) Rules , 1956 , namely : 


In the Schedule to the sald Rules 


( 1 ) under the heading " Pharmacopoeial Preparations" , sub -heading “ Tinctures" , 

( a ) the preparation Tinctura Gulancha , shall be omitted ; 


(b ) for the entries " Tinctura Koloe" and " Tincture Kramarise " the entries 

" Tinctura Kolae " and " Tinctura Krameriae" shall be respectively 
substituted ; and 


( 2 ) under the heading " Non - Pharmacopoeial Preparations" , sub -heading 
" MÈDICINAL PREPARATIONS " , after the entry " Tinctura Gentianae" the entry 
" Tinctura Gulancha" shall be inserted . 

[ No. 13 . ) 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1958 
G . S . R . 718 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 12 - A of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the State cf Pondicherry , 


- - - 


- - 


SEC . $ (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 /BHADRA I, 1880 
. . . - : - 

- - - - - - 
the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the Notin 
cation of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance ( Department cf Revenue ) 
No, 62 / 58 Central Excises, dated the 21st June, 1958 , namely : - - 

In the said notification , in the Table annexed thereto, afler item No. 2 , the 
following shall be inserted , namely 


" S .No. 


D :script:on of goods 


Exciseable material uscd 


Rate of Rchate 


3 . Paper (i) Exercise books, En - Printing and writing paper, Ten naye paise per pound 

velopes, Account and other sorts as defined in of the cxcisable material 
Memorandum Books, item 21( 3 ) of the First sche- contained in such product 
Registers , Diaries and dule to the Act, uſher than exported . 
Writing Pads, 

newsprint, 


( ii ) Paper bags 


. 


Packing and wrapping paper Ten naye paise per pound 
other ports as defined in of the excisable material 
item 21( 4 ) of the First Sche- contained in such product 
dule to the Act. 

cxported . 


( iii ) Writing Pad 


· Manifold , bank of bond Fifteen naye paise per 

paper as defined in item 21 pound of the excisable 
( 1 ) of the First Schedule to material contained in such 
the Act. 

product exported . 


(iv ) Cardboard 


, 


. Millkboard and strawboard Four naye paise per pound 

other than corrugated board , of thc excisable material 
as defined in item 21(5 ) of contained in such product 
the First Schedule to the Act . cxported . " 


[No. 88 / 1958 . 1 
M . C . DAS, Dy . Secy .. 


(Department of Revenue ) 

Wealth Tax 

New Delhi, the 18th August 1958 
G . S . R . 719 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( xiv ) of sub - section 
( I ) of section 5 of the Wealth -tax Act , 1957 ( 27 of 1957 ) , the Central Govt. hereby 
makes the following rules subject to which the Central Board of Revenue may 
recognise certain jewellery of Rulers as their heirloom for purposes of exemp 
tion from wealth - tax under the said clause , namely : 

1. Short title. These rules may be called the Wealth -tax (Exemption of Heirloom . 
Jewellery of Rulers ) Rules , 1958 . 

2 . Application for recognition of jewellery as heirloom , - - A Ruler desiring to 
obtain recognition of any jewellery in his possession , not being his personal 
property , as his heirloom for the purposes of clause (xiv ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 5 of the Wealth - tax Act, 1957, shall make an application to the Central 
Board of Revenue in the form annexed hereto . 

3 . Conditions of recognition , - On the receipt of an application under rule 2 the 
Central Board of Revenue may recognise any such jewellery as is speciied in the 
application as the heirloom of a Ruler subject to the conditions that the following 
declarations are made by the Ruler in the application , namely :- - 
( a ) that the jewellery was in existence before the 13th day of April, 1050 , 

as part of his own insignia in the status of a Ruler or that of his 

predecessor in status ; 
(b ) that the jewellery is, to all intents and purposes, treated by the Ruler 

as his dynastic property to be used by him or his successor in status 
on ceremonial occasions or otherwise to be retained in his family ; 


666 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958 / BHADRA I, 1880 


[PART II 


- 


- 


( c ) that the jewellery shall be permanently kept in India and shall not be 

removed outside India except for a purpose and a period approved by 

the Central Board of Revenue ; 
( d ) that reasonable steps shall be taken for keeping the jewellery substan 

tially in its original shape ; 
( e ) that reasonable facilities shall be allowed to any officer of Government 

authorised by the Central Board of Revenue in this behalf to examine 

the jewellery as and when necessary . 
4 . Period of validity of recognition , - A recognition accorded by the Central 
Board of Revenue in respect of any jewellery shall be available to the Ruler in 
whose possession the article is at the time of such recognition and also to his 
successor in status. In the event of sale of such jewellery, intimation of the sale 
and the sale price shall be given to the Central Board of Revenue by the Ruler 
concerned within a month of the sale, 

5 . Withdrawal of recognition . - ( 1 ) If subsequent to the date of recognition it 
transpires that any declaration made in the application has been falsely made or 
is not being duly fulfilled , Central Board of Revenue may for reasons to be recorded 
in writing withdraw the recognition retrospectively with effect from the date when 
the recognition first became available to the Ruler end in such a case wealth - tax 
shall become payable by the Ruler or his successor as the case may be for all the 
assessment years for which the jewellery was exempted on account of the recogni 
tion : 

Provided that the aggregate amount of the wealth tax payable in respect of 
the jewellery for all the said assessment years shall not in any case exceed 50 % of 
its market value on the valuation date relevant for the assessment year in which 
the recognition was withdrawn . 


( 2 ) In the event of sale or disposal of the article subsequent to the date of 
recognition , the Central Board of Revenue shall withdraw the recognition , retrospec 
tively with effect from the date when the recognition first became available to the 
Ruler and in such a case wealth - tax shall become payable by the Ruler or his 
successor, as the case may be, for all the assessment years for which the jewellery 
was exempted on account of the recognition , and for this purpose , the proceeds from 
the sale or disposal of the jewellery or the price which in the opinion of the 
Wealth - tax Omcer it would fetch if sold in the open market on the date of sale 
or disposal, whichever is higher , shall be taken to be the market value thereof on 
each successive valuation date relevant for the assessmēnt years aforesaid : 


Provided that the aggregate amount of the wealth -tax payable in respect of the 
Jewellery for all the said assessment years shall not in any case exceed 50 % of 
its market value as determined under this sub - Rule , 


Form of Application for recognition of Jewellery as Heirloom 

( See rule 2 ) 


То 


The Secretary , 
Central Board of Revenue, 

New Delhi. 
Dear Sir , 
SUBJECT : - Wealth - tax Act, 1957 – Clause ( riv ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 5 
Recognition of jewellery as heirloom . 

... .. ., Ruler / Successor to the Ruler , of former 
Indian State 

. . . . . .. .. .. , hereby request the Central Board of 
Revenue to arcord recognition to the articles of jewellery as per annexure A as 
my heirloon under Wealth -tax ( Exemption of Heirloom Jewellery of Rulers ) Rules, 
1958, for the purposes of clause ( xiv ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 5 of the Wealth 
tax Act , 1957. 

I hereby declare that : 

(a ) the sald articles of jewellery are in my possession and are not my personal 
property : 


SEC. 90)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 /BHADRA 1 , 1880 


667 


u 


(b ) the articles were in existence before the 13th day of April, 1950 , as part of 
my /my predecessor s own inşigaia in the status of a Ruler / and were recognised 
by the Central Board of Revenue as heirloom jewellery in the case of . .... .. .. 

.. .. .. .. .. ., my predecessor ; 
( c ) the articles are, to all intents and purposes , treated by me as my dynastic 
property to be used by me and my successor in status on ceremonial occasions or 
otherwise to be retained in my family : 


( d ) the articles shall be kept permanently in India and shall not be removed 
outside Indla except for a purpose and a period approved by the Central Board 
of Revenue ; 

(e ) reasonable steps shall be taken for keeping the articles substantially in 
their original shape ; 

( 1) reasonable facilities shall be allowed to any officer of the Government 
authorised by the Central Board of Revenue in that behalf to examine the articles 
as and when necessary ; 

( g ) I have read the Wealth -tax (Exemption of Heirloom Jowellery of Rulers ) 
Rules , 1958 , and I agree to abide by them . 

Yours faithfully , 


III 


. . . . IIIIIIIIII. . . . 


Place . .. .. ... .. .. . 


Date , 


ANNEXURE A 


$ . No. 


Description of the 

jewellery 


Approximate 
weight 


Approximate 

value 


Tom 


[No. W . T.- 1. ] 
R . N . JAIN , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 


CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE 


New Delhi, the 23rd August 1958 
G . S . R . 720 .- _ The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 ) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt 
Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi 
cherry , is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 43B for the 
information of persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 25th Septem 
ber , 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


668 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 / BHADRA I, 1880 
THE GAZETTE 


[Part II 


- 


E 


DRAFT RULES 
1. Short title . These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise 
Duties Drawback (Piperazine Syrup ) Rules , 1958 . 

2 . Definitions . In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires - 
(a ) “ duty - paid materials" mean 
( 1) foreign materials imported on payment of customs duty , into Indla or 

the State of Pondicherry ; and 
(ii) materials manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry and on 

which Central Excise duty has been paid ; 
(b ) " goods" means piperazine syrup manufactured in Indla or the State of 
Pondicherry and in the manufacture of which duty paid materials have been 
used ; 

(c ) " refund " means drawback of import duty and rebate of central excise 
duty , on the duty -paid materials. 

3 . Goods in respect of which refund may be paid - Subject to the provisions 
ct the Acts and these rules , and subject also to such of the provisions of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 as may be applicable in this behalf a refund shall be 
allowed in respect of the duty paid materials used in the manufacture of the goods 
exported from India or the State of Pondicherry . 

4 . Rate of refund . - ( 1 ) The refund admissible under these rules on the ship 
ment of the goods shall be the average customs and excise duty paid on the duty 
paid materials used in the manufacture of the goods. 

( 2 ) Such rate of refund shall be determined by the Central Government 
(hereinafter in this sub - rule referred to as the Government) at such intervals as 
the Government may consider necessary on the basis of Information furnished 
by the manufacturer of the goods and verifled by the Government, in respect of 
the customs and excise duty paid on the duty paid materials during such period 
as in the opinion of the Government is relevant for the purpose . 

5 , Manner of allowing refund . - Refund shall be allowed on the export of the 
goods from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry subject to the conditions, 
namely , that the shipper shall 
(1) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

is being made under these rules. 
(11 ) state the description , quantity and such other particulars as are neces . 

sary for the determination of the rate and amount of refund; and 
( lii ) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment Invoice or 

any other document giving details of the description , quantity and 

value of the goods under shipment , 
6 . Powers of Customs Collector. For the purpose of these rules , the Customs 
Collector may require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce 
any books or accounts or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity 
of the duty - paid materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty 
paid thereon . 

7 . Access to manufactory . The manufacturer of the goods in respect of which 
a refund is claimed under these rules shall give access to every part of the manu 
factory to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this 
behalt by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chlef Customs Authority , to enable 
the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by 
actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for refund. 

[ No. 51/ F .No. 34 /84 / 58. Cus- IV . ] 
S . VENKATARAMAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

COFFEE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1958 
G . S . R . 721. - In pursuance of clausc ( i ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the 
Coffee Act, 1942 ( 7 of 1942 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R . 


SÉC. $(i) 


THE GAZETTË OF ÍNDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 /BHADRA I, 1880 


669 


7 


Srinivasan , I. A . S ., (Retired ) as Chairman of the Coffee Board , Bangalore with 
effect from the 1st August , 1958 upto the 18th March 1959. 

[No 1 (3 ) Plant ( B ) / 587 . 
A . J. KIDWAI, Deputy Secy . 


TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 13th August 1958 
G . S . R , 722 , — The following draft of an order which it is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of sect on 30 of 
the Tea Act, 1953 ( 29 of 1953 ) , is published for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after the 23rd September , 1958 . 

· Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


ORDER 
1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1) This order may be called the Tea 
Waste (Control) Order , 1958 . 

( 2 ) It shall come into force at once . 
2 . Definitions. In this order , unless the context otherwise requires -- 

( a ) " Act" means the Tea Act, 1953 ( 29 of 1953) ; 
( b ) " licence" means a licence granted under this order ; 
( c ) " licensee means any person holding a licence ; 
( d ) " licensing authority " means the Chairman of the Tea Board or any 

person who may be for the time being exercising the powers of the 

Chairman ; 
( e ) " offer for sale " includes a reference to an intimation by a person of a 

proposal by him for the sale of any tea waste made by the publica 
tion of a price - list, by exposing the tea waste for sale communicating 

the price by furnishing of a quotation , or otherwise, howsocver ; 
( f ) “ tea waste” means tea sweepings, tea fluff, tea fibre, tea stalks or tea 

in any form other than tea defined in the Açt ; and 
( g ) " Tea Board " means the Tea Board constituted under section 4 of the 

Act. 


3 . Persons cxporting , selling , purchasing , storing tea waste to obtain licences . 
With effect from such date as may be fixed in this behalf, no person shall him 
self or by any other person export, sell, offer for sale , buy or hold in stock any 
tea waste except under and in accordance with the terms of a licence granted 
to him under this order . 

4 . Tea Waste to be denatured . - With effect from such date as may be fixed 
by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in this behalf, 
no person shall export, sell, offer for sale , buy or hold in stock any tea wasto 
which has not been denatured by the admixture of not less than five per cent 
slaked lime or such other denaturants as may be prescribed by the licensing 
authority in this behalf from time to time. 


5 . Disposal or tea waste . - No person shall dispose of or agree to dispose of any 
tea waste except in the following manner , namely : 

( a ) by sale to any person holding a licence; 
( b ) by export ; 
( c ) by utilizing it in the manufacture of caffeine; 
( d ) by destruction by burning or by conversion as compost in accordance 

with any procedure laid down under any excise law for the time 
• being in force, 
0 . Application for licence . Every person desiring to obtain a licence shall 
make an application in duplicate to the licensing authority in Form A , 


670 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 /BHADRA 1, 1880 


[ PART 1 


- 


7. Grant and refusal of licences. ( 1 ) The licensing authority may , for reasons 
to be recorded , refuse to grant a licence to any applicant and shall, as soon as 
possible , furnish him with a copy of the order so passed . 

( 2 ) Where an application for licence is not refused under sub - clause ( 1 ) , the 
licensing authority shall grant the applicant a licence in form B and cvery such 
licence shall be subject to the conditions annexed with that form . 

B . Perlod of validity of licence. - -Every licencc shall, unless previously can 
celled , expire on the 31st December next following . 

9 . Renewal of licences . ( 1 ) The licensing authority may, on application made 
to it in duplicate , renew a licence. Every such application and renewal thereof 
shall be in form C . Every renewed licence shall be valid up to the 31st Decem 
ber next following. 

(2 ) No application for renewal shall be refused unless the applicant has been 
given an opportunity of being heard and reasons for such refusal are recorded . 
The applicant shall as soon as possible be furnished with a copy of the order of 
refusal, 

10 . Restriction on transfer of licences. — ( 1 ) No person shall transfer any 
licence granted to him under this order , 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - clause ( 1 ) , a licensee may 
admit any other person or persons as a partner or partners in the business cover 
ed by the licence and where he does so he shall get the licence amended accord 
ingly as soon as possible , 

11. Power to cancel licences . ( 1 ) The licensing authority may , after giving a 
licensce an opportunity of being heard, cancel his licence on any of the follow 
ing grounds, namely : 
( a ) that the licence had been obtained by misrepresentation as to a mate . 

rial particular ; or 
( b ) that any of the provisions of this order or any of the conditions of the 

licence has been contravened ; or 
(c ) that the licensee of any person in his employ has been convicted of 

any offence of adulteration of tea under the Prevention of Food 
Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954 ) . 


( 2 ) Where a licence is cancelled under sub - clause ( 1 ) , the licensee shall not 
be entitled to claim any refund from the licensing authority or the Central 
Government of any sum paid in respect of the licence . 


12 . Disposal of stocks where licence is not renewed or is cancelled . — Any per 
son whose application for renewal of his licence has been refused or whose 
licence has been cancelled under this order shall dispose of his stocks of tea 
waste in accordance with the provisions of clause 6 within such time as may 
be fixed in this behalf by the licensing authority , 


13 . Appeal. - Any person aggrieved by an order 

(a ) refusing to grant or renew a licence, or 

( b ) cancelling a licence , 
may within sixty days from the date of the order, appeal to the Central Govern 
ment and the decision of the Central Government shall be final. 


14 . Restriction on possession of stocks. - ( 1 ) No licensee shall at any time 
after the expiry of four months from the date specified in the notification under 
clause 3 have in his possession any quantity of tea waste exceeding the quantity 
fixed in respect of him by the licensing authority . 


( 2 ) The licensing authority for the purpose of fixing any quantity of tea 
waste under sub - clause ( 1 ) shall have regard to the following factors, namely : 
( 1) tea waste sold or exported by the licensee or utilized by him in the 

manufacture of caffeine in the calendar year immediately preceding 
the date of the licence or , as the case may be, the date of renewal 
thereof; 


SEC. B(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1880 


671 


( il ) Such other factors as the licensing authority may consider relevant in 

the circumstances of the case . 
18 . Inspection of stores and taking samples. - ( 1 ) Any olcer of the Tea Board 
duly authorised by the licensing authority may at any time inspect any place 
of storage of a licensee and take samples of tea waste and have them analysed 
by an analyst approved by the licensing authority for the purpose of ensuring 
that the tea waste has been denatured in accordance with clause 4 . 

( 2 ) Where any sample is taken under sub - clause ( 1 ) , its cost calculated at the 
rate at which such tea waste is usually sold shall be paid to the person from 
whom it is taken . 

16 . Maintenance of records and submission of returns etc . — ( 1 ) The Licensing 
authority may issue directions to any person holding a licence 
( a ) to maintain such records of his purchases , sales, exports, contracts or 

other matters connected with his undertaking or business and in such 
form as may be specified in the direction , and to produce them for 

inspection by such authority ; 
( b ) to submit to such authority returns or statements in such form and 

containing such information relating to his undertaking or business 

and within such time as may be specified in the direction . 
( 2 ) Any direction of the nature referred to in sub - clause ( 1 ) may be issued 
generally to all holders of licences or any class thereof, 

17 . Power to search etc . — The licensing authority or any officer of the Tea 
Board specially authorised in writing by that authority in this behalf or an officer 
of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Inspector may enter and 
inspect at any time any land , building, enclosed place , premises, vehicle , vessel, 
aircraft, conveyance or other plant or machinery upon or in which tea waste is 
processed , stored , sorted, manufactured, carried or sold or the authority or officers 
concerncd have rcason to believe that it is being processed , stored , sorted, manu 
factured, carried or sold and seize any tea wastc or product of the tca waste 
which appears to be processed , stored , sorted , manufactured , carried, or sold in 
contravention of this order : 

Provided that in the cxercise of the power of cntry , the authority or officer 
shall pay duc regard to the social and religious customs of the occupant of such 
place or premises : 

Provided further that if any such place or premises is found locked up or 
unoccupied or unattended by or on behalf of the owner or occupier , the same 
may , in the presence of two witnesses , be broken open and entered upon for all 
or any of the aforesaid purposes . 

18 . Checking of accounts etc . — The licensing authority or any officer of the 
Tea Board specially authorised in writing by that authority in this behalf or an 
officer of the Central Excise Department not below the rank of Inspector may 
check accounts or records of tea waste or any other records or check stocks of 
tea waste physically whether for the purpose of testing the accuracy of any 
return submitted under this order or of informing itself or himself as to any 
particulars regarding which information is required for the purposes of this 
order . 

19. Fees . The fee payable for the grant or renewal of a licence shall be twenty 
five rupees 

20 . Service of orders and directions. - - Any order or direction made or issued by 
the licensing authority may be served in the following manner , namely : 
( a ) in the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of 

persons, by notification in the Offcial Gazette ; 
(b ) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual 

(i) by delivering or tendering it to that individual; or 
( ii ) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered , by affixing it on the outer 

door or some other conspicuous part of the premises in which that 
individual lives, and a written report thereof shall be prepared and 

witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood . 
21. Breach of conditions of licence to be deemed as contravention of this 
Order . -- If any person holding a licence commits any breach of any of the condi 
tions of licence , he shall be deemed to have contravened the provisions of this 
order . 


672 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28, 1958 / BIŁADRA I, 1880 (Part It 
- -- - = - = = - = - - - - = = 

= - - - ---- - - - 
FORM A 
( See clause 6 ) 


To 


· The Licensing Authority , 

Application for licence . 
1 . Name of applicant 
2 . Address 
3 . Purpose for which licence is required 

( a ) for purchase , sale, storage of tea wagte as a dealer , 
(b ) for export of tca waste ; 

( c ) for purchase or storage of tea waste for manufacture of caffeine. 
4 . Quantities of tea waste purchased , sold , stored , exported or utilized for 
manufacture of caffeine during each of the preceding three calendar years . 

5 . Quantity of tea waste held in stock on the date of application . 
6 . Details of the place at which tea waste is proposed to be stored 

( a ) address ; 
(b ) whether the godown or place of storage will be kept under lock ; 

( c ) whether storage space would be utilized for storing tea waste only . 
7. Whether the applicant is engaged in buying and selling tea , whether loose 
or in packets . If the answer is in the affirmative, the address of the place of 
storage of tea and of factory where sorting, grading, cleaning or blending is done 
should be stated . 

I hereby declare that if a licence is granted to me by the licensing authority 
for the above mentioned purpose in terms of clause 

of the Tea Waste 
(Control) Order , 1958 , I shall abide by the terms and conditions of the licence . 

Signature of applicant. 


Date 


to 


FORM B 
( See clause 7) 
TEA BOARD 

Licence No . 

Date 
Licence 
Shri /Sarvashri, 

of 

is / are hereby authorised 
to buy , sell, store, export tea waste in terms of the Tea Wastę ( Control ) Order , 
1958, and the conditions of the licence . 
This licence shall remain in force from 

both days 
inclusive unless previously cancelled and is not transferable . 

The place of storage is at 
Calcutta 

Chairman , Tea Board 

Licensing Authority . 
Date 

Conditions of licence 
1. The licensee shall produce his licence for inspection on demand by the 
licensing authority or by any officer of the Tea Board duly authorised by that 
authority 

2 . Within twenty four hours from the time of booking or despatch whichever 
is earlier of each consignment of tea waste by rail, road or steamer , every licensee 
shall send intimation in writing to the local officer of the Central Excise Depart 
ment, with a copy to the Tca Board , Calcutta , and a copy to the Collector of 


:- SEC. $(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23, 1958 /BHADRA I, 1880 


673 


Central Excisc having jurisdiction at the receiving end. The intimation shall 
contain the following particulars : 

( a ) quantity of tea waste consigned ; 
( b ) date of booking or despatch ; 
( c ) railway, road or steamer receipt number ; 
( d ) name, address and licence number of consignor ; and 

( e ) name, address and licence number of consignee. 
3 . The consignor shall mark every package of tea waste with the label " Tea 
Waste " in bold letters and give the following particulars on each package: — 

( a ) name, address and licence number of consignor; and 
( b ) name, address and licence number of consignee . 

FORM C 

(See clause 9 ) 
Application for renewal of licence , 
To 

The Licensing Authority , 
I /We hereby apply for renewal of licence No. 

dated 
2 . The place where the tea waste will be stored 

Full name and 
address of the applicant in block letters . 
Date 
Place 

Signature of the applicant. 
Certifled that the licence No. 

granted on the 

to 
in terms of the Tea Waste ( Control) Order , 1958, is hereby renewed until the 
31st December , 19 

, unless previously cancelled before that date under 
the provisions of the lea Waste (Control) Order , 1958 . 
Date 
Renewal No. 

Licensing Authority . 

[ No. 32 (8 ) Plant/ 54. 1 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy . 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 


New Delhi, the 19th August 1958 
THE COMPANIES ( CENTRAL GOVERNMENT S ) GENERAL RULES & FORMS, 

1956. 


G . S . R . 723 . - In exercise of the power conferred by clauses ( a ) and ( b ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 642 of the Companies Act , 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Companies 
( Central Government s ) General Rules and Forms, 1 56 , namely : 

In the said rules : 
1 . In Form 25 ,- - 
( 1) in items 3 and 4 
(a ) after clause (1), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : - -- 
" ( ia ) Particulars of shareholdings 

Number of shares heli 
managing /whole - time director 

managing agent / secretaries and treasurers 
( h ) after clause (vi), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : -- 
" ( vii ) whether the managing /wholc - time director suffers from any cf the 

disqualifications mentioned in section 207 of the Companies Act, 
1956 " ; 


674 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1958 / BHADRA 1, 1880 (PART II 
= - = - = 

( 11) in items 3 to 7 and 9 , note below item (4 ) and the foot-note ( a ). for the 
words " managing director " , wherever they occur , the following shall be substi 
tuted , namely : 

"managing / whole -time director” ; and 
(111 ) in item 7, after the words " and treasurers." , the following shall be in 
serted , namely : 
" (Attention is invited in this connection to sections 316 , 317 and 332 of the 

Companies Act, 1956 .)" 
2 . ( a ) In Form 28, the following item shall be inserted , namely : - - 
" (3A ) Capital structure on the 

Authorised : 
date of the application 

Subscribed : 

Paid - up : " 
(b ) in Item (4 ), clause (c ), at the end of sub -clause (1), the following shall be 
Inserted , namely : 
" The following further particulars should be specified : - - 

(a ) Reasons for the above transfer . 
(b ) Price at which the shares are being transferred . 
( c ) Whether the proposed share transfer involves transfer of shares from 

residents to non - residents and vice versa . 
( d ) Whether the consent of the Reserve Bank of India has been obtained , 

where necessary , to the transfer of Funds under the Foreign Ex 

change Regulation Act , 1947." 
3 . In Form 29, after the words and figures " of the Companies Act, 1956." the 
following shall be inserted , namely : 
" and certify that I /we have not been disqualified to act as a director / 

directors under section 267 or 274 of the Companies Act , 1936 ." 
4 . In Forms 48 , 49 , 50 and 54 , for the words and Agures " Indian Companles 
Act, 1956 ," the words and Agures " Companies Act, 1956 " shall be substituted . 

5 . In Form 54 , for the words " British India ," the word " India " shall be subs 
tituted , 

[No. 3 / I / 58 - P . R . ]. 
K . M , HANBARHATTY , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Food ) 

New Delhi, the 11th August 1958 
G . S . R . 24 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 3 
of the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appel) Rules, 1957 , the 
President hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in 
the Notification No . S . R . O . 2236 dated the 12th April, 1957 , of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, (Department of Food ) namely : 
In the said Notification under head ( a ) Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati 

sub -head ( i ) Central Civil Posts , Class 1, after the words " Chief 
Director , the words " Omcer on Special Duty " shall be inserted . 

(No. F . 1 - 83 / 58 -S .Admn . ) 
S . D . UDHRAIN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1958 
G .SR . 726 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment of persons to certain posts in the Ministry of Health , namely : 
1. These rules may be called the Ministry of Health (Miscellaneous posts ) 

Rules , 1958 . 


Sec . Xi) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 23 , 1958 , DITADRA 1, 1880 


- 


675 


2 . The scale of pay fixed for the post of Staff Car Driver in the Ministry of 

Health , the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits and 
other matters relating to the post are set out in Schedule I to these 

rules , 
3 . The scale of pay fixed for the post of Junior Draftsman in the Ministry 

of Health , the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits 
and other matters relating to the post are set out in Schedule II to 

these rules . 
4 . The scale of pay fixed for the post of Gestetner Operator in the Ministry 

of Health , the method of recruitment, the qualifications, age limits and 
other matters relating to the post are set out in Schedule Ill to these 
rules. 


SCHEDULE I 


Post of Staff Car Driver in the Ministry of Health 
1. Name of Post - Staff Car Driver. 
2. No. of posts 

. One. 
3 . Classification 

. . G . C . S . Class III (Non -Gazetted ) Non -Ministeral, 
4 . Scale of Pay . . Rs. 60 — 5/2 — 75 . 
s . Whether selection post or non - — 

selection post . 
6 . Age linnit for direct recruiti . 25 – 35 years with usual relaxation for special categories as 

provided under Govt, orders from time to time. 
7 . Education and other qualification (1) Must posses working knowledge of English or Hindi 
rcquired . 

and a qualifying licensc for driving cars with at least 

3 years experience. 

( ti ) Dosirable ; A pass in Middle School Standard . 
8 . Whether age and cducational Only age will not apply . 

qualifications for the direct 
recruits will apply in the 

Case of promotces. 
9 . Period of probation , if any . Six months . 
10 . Method of Recruitment ; By selection from among qualified Class IV cmployees 

whether by direct recruit of the Ministry of Health , failing which by direct rec 

ment or by promotion , ruitment. 
11. In case of recruitment by From Class IV employces possessing the requisite quali 

promotion , grades from which fications and experience . 

to be made . 
12 . If a D . P . C . exists,what is it Deputy Secretary (Extt .), Under Secretary ( Estt.) and 
Composition , 

Under Secretary (General). 
13 . Circumstances in which UPSC None , 

is to be consulted in making 
rocruitment, 

SCHEDULE II 
Post of Junior Draftsman in the Ministry of Health. 
1. Name of post . . . Junjor Draftaman 
2 . No. of posts . . . One. 
3 . Classification 

. . G . C . S . Class III (Non -gazetted ) Ministerial. 
4 Scale of pay . • Rs. 100 -- 5 -- 125 - 6 - 155 — E . B . - 6 — 185. 
5 Whether selection post or 

non -selection post 
6 . Age Limit for direct recruits , 18 - 25 years with usual relaxation for a special categories 

as provided under Goyt, orders from time to time. 
7. Education and Other qualifica - Matriculation with training in Draftsmanship from ic 
tions required , 

cognised Institute , or Matriculatica with 3 years ex 
perience in Architecture . 


676 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 28 , 1958 /BHADRA 1, 1880 


(Part II 


8 . Whether age and educational 

qualifications for the 
direct recruits will apply 

in the case of promotees, 
9 . Period of probation , if any. Six months . 
Io. Method of recruitment : Nurmally the post will be filled through Employment 

whther by direct recruitment or Exchange but in case no sultablo persons are available 
by trensfer . 

the post should be filled by transfer of a suitable person 

from othor Central Govt, Department. 
II. In case of recruitment by trans- Draftsman Grade III (by transfer ) . 

fer , grades from which to be 

made 
12 , If a D . P . C . exists , what is its DOCA not arise . 

composition . 
13 . Circumstances in which UPSC None . 

is to be consulted in making 
recruitment, 


SCHEDULE III 
Post of Gestetner Operator in the Ministry of Health , 
1. Name of Post 

Senior Gestetner Operator . 
2 . No, of posts . . . One , 
3. Classification . . . Class III (Non -gazetted ) Ministerial.. 
4 . Scale of Pay . . Rs. 60 — 5 /2 - 75 . 
5 . Whether selection post or Nun - Selection post. 

non - selection post, 
6 . Age limit for direct recruits . 18 — 25 years with usual relaxation for special categories 

of persons under Government orders issued from tim : 

10 time. 
7 . Education and other qualifica - (i) Dopartmental candidates - Nil . 
tions required . 

( ii ) Direct Recruits -- Middle School Standard , 
8 . Whether age and educational No. 

qualificatons for the direct 
recruits will apply in the 

case of promotees . 
9 . Period of probation if any Six months for direct recrujta . 
10 . Method of recruitment : The post should ordinarily be filled by promotion from 

whether by direct recruitment the post of daftry in order of gtniority subject to 
or by promotion , 

proficiency of handling the Gestetner Machince, 
II. In case of recruitment of by From the grade of dafry . 

promotion grades from which 
to be made. 


12 . If a D . P . C , exists , what Deputy Secretary (Estt.) Under Secretary (Estt.) und 
is its composition . 

Branch Officer concerned with the Receipt and Issue 

Section , 
13 . Circumstances in which UPSC None. 

is to be consulted in making 
recruitment, 

[ No. F . 24 -4 / 68 - Estt. ) 
S . IFTIKHAR HUSAIN , Dy. Sacy . 


· MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 9th August 1958 
G . S . R . 786 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating tho 
recruitment of persons to the posts of Library Attendants (Junior Grade ) in the 
General Central Service , Class IV in the Ministry of Education , namely : 
1 . Short title : These rules may be called the Ministry of Education ( Library 

Attendants (Junior Grade ) ] Files 1959. 


Sec . 3 (0) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 29, 1988/ BHADRA 1, 1880 


677 


2 . Classification etc : The number of posts , their classification , the scale of 

pay and the duties of the posts shall be as specifled in Items 1 to 5 

of the Schedule to these Rules , 
3 . Method of recruitment : The method of recruitment to the posts , the ago 

and other qualifications of persons to be recruited to them and other 
matters relating to these posts shall be as specified in items 8 to 12 
of the Schedule aforesaid , 

SCHEDULE 


Details regarding posts of Library Attendants ( Furior Grale ) in the Ministry of 

Education 
" I . Name of post . . . . . Library Attendant Tio : G a1 ) . 

2 . Number of posts . . . . . Eight (8 ). 
. 3 . Its classifi :ation andwhether gazetted or Class IV Non - gazetted . 

non - gazetted . 
. 4 . Scale of pay, . . . . . R , 40 - 

1 50 — 2 - 60 . 
5 . Dvies attach : d to the post . . . Non -technical processing of publicatio .18 

211 S1 : Uchar dities anciated with 
the Library work as the Librarian may 

determine frun time to time . 
5 . Whether a seleccion pust or n77- 3election Non -selection poits : idcity -cu n -An:35 ) 

post. 
7. Age limit for direct recruits ? . . , Below 25 years. Relaxable in case of 

S . C ., T . S ., displaced persons & other 
special ci egories in accordance with 
the gºn = ral orders issued from time 

to time by Government of India . 
. 8 . Educational and other qualificationsrequired . * enial Middle Standard . 

Desirable :- Experience of having worked 

in soine Library . 
Whether age and educational qualifications Yes , only the citational qualifications . 
prescribed for direct recruitment will 
apply in case of recruitment by promotion / 

transfer. 
10 . Period of probation , if any. 

. One year. 
Ir . Method ) of recruitment 1;o , whethir by By pontion of Difcries. Direct re 

direct recruitnat, by po notion or by cruitm / ranfer will be resorto .i to if 
transfer and porcentages of vacanciez to 11 ) syitabl: m0nal canlidates are 
be rilled by the various methods . 

uvailable . 


72 . 


In case of vacancies Alle by ponina 

transfer , gradc9 /sources frun wiin p . . . 
mocion / transfers are to be made. 


Fin Dofiries in M iisiry of Elicatio 
Win 11 : 21: 1,1 1, 1210 3 years service . 


* Q Nlification relaxable at th : discretion of the Ministry of E1101iv in 32 of candid , 
me ohrwise well-qualii : d . W .123 celictiul is allovi, in rel73 thereof shild be 

learly stated in witing and thy appointing Authority shouli goi tho cizicance of his in 
. diate superior before making such an exception . 


[No. 14 -23 / 58 -A2.] 
M . C . MINOCHA , Under Socy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi-2 , the 10th August 1958 
G .S . R . 727 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government bereby exempts 


678THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 23 , 1958 / BHADRA ) , 1880 [Part II - 950. 8 (i) 1. 


cinematograph exhibition of Alms in the premises of recognised educational insti 
tution in the Union Territories of India from the operation of section 10 of the 
gald Act , subject to the following conditions namely : -- - 
1 . Only Alms of a predominantly educational nature , certified as such by the 

Central Board of Film Censors , or Alms approved as scientific Almg, 
Alms intended for educational purposes, Alms dealing with news and 
current events or documentary Alms approved by the Film Advisory 

Board shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
2 . No admission fee, except to the extent required to cover expenses, shall 

be charged . 
3 . No person other than students and staff of the Institutions, members of 

the Managing Committees of the Institutions and any guests specially 
Invited by the authorities or the Institutions and those enumerated 

under condition ( 9 ) below shall be admitted to the show . 
4 . Only non - inflammable films and Alm strips shall be exhibited or permitted 

to be exhibited . 
5 . The persong organising the exhibition of Alms shall be responsible for 

taking adequate safety measures against fire or any other mishap 
like the collapse of gallaries, roof etc . of the place where such Almg. 

are exhibited. 
6 . No advertisement Alms shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
7 . All Institutions which avail themselves of this exempt shall maintain a 

register of the films exhibited and comply with any other directions 
that may be issued in this behalt by the Administrations concerned . 
The register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised oficers of 

each Administration . 
8 . This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from 

the date of issue of this notiAcation , unless revoked earlier , 
9 . Employees of the Administration , mernbers of the Central Board of Film 

Censors and its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant Regional 
Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their official duties . 
shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions are held and to 
the film shows. 

[No. 8 / 6 / 55 -FC. ) 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy 


MUINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANACER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 


