
(Ike (Bazette of «3ndia 

qTftwn $ WTf^TW 

PUBLISHED BT AUTHORITY, 


ffo 9] iff 5TprT(T, 27, lQ63/WFt 8, 1880 

No. 9] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 19C5/PH ALGUNA 8, 18M 


frr wnr Whh w sntft t WehI to anpr itowr liwif nwr wr ito i 

Separate paging Is given to this Part In order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation 


wftsrr 

NOTICE 

ffNr fatf ’TTTT £ srTraT^HT IRS 18 1965 ST* SpPrfW fartr jpr £ - 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 1 8th February, 

1965 : — 


Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject 

No. 


28 S.O. 588, dated nth Feb- Ministry of Comm- Further rtrendircrt to the Fxports 

ruary, 1965 erce. (Control) Order, 1962. 

29 S.O. <189, Dated 12th Do. Cancelling the Order issued by S.O. 

February, 1965 No. 1527, dated 4th July, 1959. ' 

30 S.O. 690, dated 15th Election Commission List of Contesting candidates for the 

February, 1965 India. bve-election to the House of the 

People from 76-Hathras (SC) Parlia- 
mentary Constituency. 

3r S.O. tor, dated 15th Feb- Central Board ofDir- The Income-tax (Second Amendment) 
ruary, 1965 ect Taxes. Rules, 1965. 

32 S.O-6S3, dated 16th Election Commission Amendment to Notification No. 434/. 

February, 1965 India, 13/61, dated 23rd December, 1961. 

33 S.O, 634, dated 17th Feb- Central Board of Corrigendum to S.O. No. 169, dated 

ruary, 1965 Direct Taxes. 4th January, 1965. 


( 749 ) 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 Itmi/PHALGUNA R, 1 886 [Part II- 


lssue 

No. No. and Date Tabued by Subject 


34 S.O. 655)dated iSth Ministry of Informa- Approval of films specified therein. 

February, 1965. tinn nn.l Broad Cast- 

ing. 


spu ftrri a rFnv j TT t r iDrmf nfturr tow ary^r , IVwft ^ rtrt 

trfmrr ^ i wro ^ w T=r tthW ^ qft nrfar if 

^ fq n ^ iftfi? '1 -St 4 ^TfjTr i 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will he supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications. Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


wm H— 3 ~g^rroni (") 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

OnflnNTFW w\f w ) wnr RTronr ^ arfr (dv R^iw*r •biror) 

Softer mV qntr fV sii 1 ffm sutf Vmo pn Mtm «pjV ariV 1 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 

S.O. 656. — In pursuance of section 100 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 
11th January, 1965 by the Election Tribunal. Patna, in Election Petition No. 294 
of 1962. 

IN THE COURT OF THE MEMBER, ELECTION TRIBUNAL, PATNA 

Present: Shri P. K. Sarkar, Retired Judge of the Calcutta High Court, 

The 11th day of January, 1965 

Election Petition No. 294 of 1962 
Ramasray Prasad Chaudhary — -Petitioner. 

Versus 

(1) Satya Narain Sinha "1 

(2) Rajendra Mahto 1 

131 Banari Pd. Sah > Respondents. 

(41 Hemant Kumar Chaudhary ] 

(5) Rajeshwar Patel J 

For the Petitioner, — Shri Ramakant Verma and Shri Chandrakant Jha, 
Advocates. 

For the Respondent No. 1.- — Shri B. C. Ghosh and Shri Kanhaiya Prasad 
Varma, Advocates. 

For the Respondent No. 4.— Shri Sidheshwari Prasad Singh, Advocate. 

For the Respondent No. 5,— Shri Shyam Nandan Pd. Sharma, Advocate. 

JUDGMENT 

This is an election petition calling into question the election to the House of 
the People from 16 Samastlpur Parliamentary Constituency m the State of Bihar 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 196S/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


75 1 


at the General Elections of 1962, Six candidates who are all parties to this 
petition had filed nomination papers for this election, but later on two of the 
candidates, who are respondent Nos, 4 and S. withdrew their candidature and 
the election was contested by the remaining four candidates among whom the 
petitioner represented the Swatantra Party, the respondent No. 1 who was a 
Minister of the Central Government, represented the Congress Party, the res- 
pondent No. 2 represented the Praia Socialist Party and the respondent No, 3 
represented the Socialist Party. The polling was held on four different dates, 
namely, the 18th, 21st, 23rd and 25th February, 1962 and on the 3rd March, 1962 
the respondent No, 1 was declared elected, The votes polled were as follows:— 


1. Respondent No. 1 

2. Respondent No. 2 

3. Petitioner 

4. Respondent No. 3 


82,522 votes. 
60,972 votes. 
45,411 votes. 
9,991 votes. 


2. The election petition which bears date the 11th April, 1962, was sent bv 
registered post to the Election Commission and it was received there on the J 4tfi 
April, 1962. The petitioner prayed for two reliefs in this petition;— 

(1) a declaration that the election of the respondent No, 1 was void and liable 
to be set aside and f2) a further declaration that he or any respondent other 
than the respondent No. 1 had been duly elected. 


3. The grounds on which the election was challenged were commission of 
certain corrupt practices by the respondent No. 1 and his workers and agents 
and infringement of the law relating to maintenance of secrecy of voting and 
certain other matters. The corrupt practices alleged related to delivery of 
speeches and making of false propaganda by the respondents Nos. 1 and 2 against 
the Swatantra Party, and to making of appeals on the ground of caste, offering 
of inducements to Muslims and other voters, bribing of Harijan voters, hiring of 
vehicles for carrying voters to the polling stations and utilisation of the services 
of certain Railway employees in the matter of canvassing for voles by the res- 
pondent No. 1 and his agents and workers. The particulars of the corrupt 
practices alleged were given in Annexure ‘A’ and ‘V to the petition. In 
Annexure TB' to the petition certain leaflets in Hindi were mentioned and it was 
alleged that the workers and agents of the respondent No, 1 hri distributed to 
his knowledge and with his connivance these leaflets which contained heinous 
and false aspersions on the personal character of the petitioner. It was next 
alleged that the respondent No. 1 had got printed a booklet of songs mentioned 
in Annexure ‘C’ attacking the Swatantra Party and its leaders and that his agents 
and workers had distributed it in the constituency and had the songs sung on 
loud speakers. In Amnexurc ‘E’ to the petition numbers were given of certain 
Government vehicles said to have been requisitioned for the purposes of his 
election by the respondent No. 1. Instances were given of the infringement of 
the taw regarding maintenance of secrecy of voting, of canvassing in or near 
polling stations, of threatening of voters and agents and of other kinds of mis- 
conduct at the polling stations! Finally it was stated that the account of election 
expenses submitted by the respondent No. 1 was incorrect and that he had 
suppressed many items of expenses incurred by him and had spent more than 
the limit fixed by law. 


4. All the respondents except the respondent No. 3 appeared and filed written 
statements. The respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on 17th August, 
1962 and the others did so on 28th August, 1962. The written statement of the 
respondent No. 4 who is the son and was the election agent of the petitioner 
enclosed the book of songs and one of the leaflets mentioned in the election peti- 
tion and gave further particulars about them and about the election expenses 
incurred by the respondent No. 1, 

5. The respondent No, 1 in his written statement took certain preliminary 
objections to the maintainability of the election petition. He pleaded that it had 
not been filed in accordance with the provisions of sections 81. 82 and 83 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 and was not accompanied by copies of 
the leaflets and the booklet mentioned in the Annexures to the petition He 
specifically objected to the verifications and the affidavit filed in support of the 
corrupt practices. With regard to the allegations of corrupt practices lie specifi- 
cally denied all of them and contended that they were all false and baseless and 
that the particulars of such corrupt practices were vague and insufficient, He 
also denied any infringement of the law regarding maintenance of secrecy ox 
voting and other matters pleaded in the election petition. He stated that tie 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


had always directed his workers and agent not to do anything against the law 

and that they were never guilty of contravention of any law. With regard to 

the account of election expenses submitted by him he denied that it was in- 
correct or that any expense was suppressed or that the expenses exceeded the 

limit sanctioned by law. 

0. The respondent No. 2 denied the allegations made in election petition 
against him but otherwise supported the election petition and pleaded that the 
respondent No. 1 had committed the corrupt practices alleged against him and 
that in consequence his election was liable to be set aside. He prayed that he 
should be declared as duly elected, He did not, however, appear at the trial. 

7. The respondent No. 5 contended in his written statement that he and the 
respondent No, 4 were not necessary parties to the election petition which was 
liable to be dismissed on this ground and for non-compliance with other provi- 
sions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


8, The following issues were framed on 10th September, 1982: — 

(1) Is the election petition liable to be dismissed u/s 90(3) of the R.P. Act, 
1951 because of non-compliance with the provisions of sections 81 and 82 of the 
said Act? 


(2) Does the petition comply with the provisions of section 83 of the R.P. 
Act, 1951? If not, has the Tribunal jurisdiction to enquire into the allegations 
of corrupt practices in the petition and the annexures thereto? 

(3) Did the respondent No. 1, his workers and agents commit the corrupt 
practices under sub-sections (1), (2), (3), (3A), (4), (5), (8) and (7) of Section 
123 of the R.P. Act, 1951, as alleged in the election petition or the annexures 
thereto. If so, was the result of the election materially affected thereby? 


(4) Did respondent No. 1 keep correct account of all expenditure incurred 
and authorised by him or by his election agent in connection with the election? 
Did the total of the said expenditure exceed the prescribed amount? 


(5) Was there any infringement of the provisions of the Constitution of India 
In relation to the maintenance of aecrecv of ballot or non-compliance with the 
provisions of sections 125, 120, 127, 127(A), 128, 129, 130, 131 and 132 of the R.P. 
Act, 1951 in this election? 


(0) Is the petitioner entitled to be declared duly elected from this Constitu- 
ency? To what relief, if any, is the petitioner entitled? 

9. Thereafter on 16th October, 1962, the petitioner filed a petition praying for 
amendment of the verifications appended to the election petition and another 
petition supplying further particulars of the corrupt practices alleged in the said 
petition in the form of Annexures with an affidavit in support of them. Counter 
petitions were then filed by the respondent No, 1, All these petitions and the 
preliminary issues Nos. (1) and (2) were heard on 12th November, 1962 and 
16th November, 1962 and on 29th November, 1962, the following order was 
passed - — 

10. The two preliminary issues which have been heard run as follows:— 

1. Is the election petition liable to be dismissed u/s 90(31 of the R.P. Act, 
1951, because of non-compliance with the provisions of sections 81 and 82 of the 
said Act? 


2 Does the petition comply with the provisions of section 83 of the R.P. Act, 
1951’ If not, has the Tribunal jurisdiction to enquire into .the allegations of 
corrupt practices in the petition and the annexures thereto? 


Is, sue No. 1 - — So far as non-compliance with the provisions of section 81 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 to be hereafter referred to as the 
Act is concerned, there was an objection in paragraph 3 of the written state- 
ment of respondent No. 1 that the election petition was not filed m time or 
before the proper authority. This objection was not however pressed at the 
hearing The election petition bears an endorsement that it had been received 
by the" Secretary, Election Commission, India by registered post on the 14th of 
Anrll, 1962. This is also borne out by the Election Commissions ordershe . 
The result of the election was announced, as I am informed, cn the : 3rd March, 
1962 So the election petition was filed in time and before the proper authority. 
Certain other objections regarding non-compliance with the provisions of sec- 
tion 81(3) of the Act were also not pressed. 




8 (li)] GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1^65/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


11. So far as non-compliance with the provisions of section 82 of the Act is 
concerned, a curious objection was taken in paragraph 5 of the written state- 
ment of respondent No. 1 that two candidates named Hemant Kumar Choudhary 
and Rajeshwar Patel who had filed nomination papers which were duly accepted 
by the Returning Officer were necessary parties to the petition despite the fact 
that they had actually been joined as respondents, Hemant Kumar Uhouahary 
being respondent No. 4 and Rajeshwar Patel respondent No. 5. Both these res- 
pondents have appeared and filed written statements and respondent No. 4 has 
supported the case of the petitioner. They however, withdrew their candidatures 
and an objection has been taken by respondent No. 5 tnat since they were not 
contesting candidates they were not necessary parties to the petition and that by 
addition of them the provisions of section 82 of the Act have been contravened. 
The petitioner has since filed a petition (on 12th November, 1902) conceding that 
respondent No, 5 was not a necessary or proper party and praying that his name 
might be expunged from the record. It is true that these respondents not being 
contesting candidates were not necessary parties under section 82(a) of the Act. 
but I cannot agree with the view that joinder of these additional parties should 
be treated on the same footing as non-joinder of a necessary party and consider- 
ed fatal to the petition under section 90(3) of the Act. The failure to join a 
necessary party would be fatal because without such a party the relief claimed 
by the petitioner could not be granted and the Tribunal has no power to allow 
rectification of the defect by amendment of the petition in view of the penal 
provisions of section 90(3) of the Act. Joinder of an unnecessary party does 
not, however, affect the relief claimed and cannot therefore be equally fatal to 
the petition. I hold accordingly that the joinder of respondents No. 4 and 5 should 
not be treated as contravention of the mandatory provisions of section 82(a) 
attracting the penalty of dismissal imposed by section 90(3) of the Act. Since 
the respondent No. 5 does not want to remain on the record and the petitioner 
has prayed for striking out his name, his name should be struck out and he wilt 
get his costs. 


11 A. Issue No. 2.— The first objection on this issue is that the election petition 
has not been properly verified. The verification both of the petition and of the 
annexures is in this form: 

.‘I do hereby declare that the above statements of this 

petition are true to the best of my knowledge and belief or information.” Section 
83(1) (c) of the Act provides that an election petition and any schedule or 
annexure thereto should be verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil 
procedure for the verification of pleadings and O.0.r.l5(2)C.P C. lays down that a 
person verifying shall specify by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the 
pleadings what he verifies on his own knowledge and what he veiiflcs upon 
information received and believed to be true. It will appear from the above 
verification that the petition and the annexures have not been verified m that 
mamier ! ° The ^ petitioner has since (on 16th October, 1962) filed a petition for 
amendment of the verifications and prayed that the verifications contained in 
the said petition might be substituted in place of the original verifications 
Objection has been taken to this petition hut it is now well-settled that a Tribunal 
has jurisdiction to allow the verification to be amended for rectification 
of any defect therein. Reference may be made in this connection to the 
decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Bhikajt Vs. Brij Lai A.I.R 1955- 
S C 610 It has been argued that the new verifications cannot be allowed to be 
substituted in place of the old verifications, but the old verifications were detec- 
tive because they did not specify the paragraphs of the petition and the 
annexures whief/were true to the knowledge of the petitioner and which were 
true to his information and belief and so if the verifications are to be amended, 
they will necessarily have to be substituted by new veriflcatioM Specofvmg the 
naraarauhs which are true to the petitioner’s knowledge and those which are 
tn e fo hls information and belief. This has been done in the verifications con- 
tffined in the petition for amendment. The amendment will be by substitution 
of fheqe verifications for the defective verifications in the petition and m th 
annexures^ The Zendment is, therefore, allowed and the verifications men- 
tioned in the petition for amendment, dated 16th October, 19 62. be substituted 
place of the original verifications in the petition and the innexures. 



754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 19&5/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part H- 


in the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, with the Form (No. 26) of this affidavit. 
This Form requires that the corrupt practices should be named in the affidavit 
and that the paragraphs in the petition and the schedules true to knowledge and 
those true to information should be separately sworn to. The affidavit filed with 
the petition in this case is not in this form. The petitioner has only affirmed 
at the end of the petition and the annexures that the contents of the petition 
are true to his knowledge, information and belief. He has not specified which 
statements are true to his knowledge and which are true to his information and 
belief. The petitioner has since (on 16th October, 1962) filed an affidavit in the 
prescribed form and prayed that it might be accepted and treated as part of the 
election petition, but this cannot be done and it would not cure the defect in the 
original petition as filed. There is no provision in the Representation of the 
People Act for curing the defect by a subsequent affidavit and the Tribunal has 
no power to accept such an affidavit. 

13. The question now is what should be the effect of non-compliance witii the 
above proviso to section 83(1). I have already held in two of the cases before 
me that since non-compliance with the provisions of section 83 has not been 
made penal u/s 90(3) of the Act, the proviso cannot be said to be mandatory. 
That is the effect of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Jagan Nath 
Vs. Jaswant Singh, reported in A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 210. There the Supreme Court 
observed as follows:— 

(1) “The general rule is well-settled that the statutory requirements of elec- 
tion law must be strictly observed and that an election contest is not an action 
at law or a suit in equity but is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the 
common law and that the court possesses no common law power. It is also 
well-settled that it is a sound principle of natural- justice that the success of a 
candidate who has won at an election should not be lightly interfered with and 
any petition seeking such interference must strictly conform to the requirements 
of the law. None of these propositions however has any application, if the 
special law itself confers authority on a Tribunal to proceed with a petition in 
accordance with certain procedure and when it does not state the consequences 
of non-compliance with certain procedural requirements laid down by it. (2) “It 
is always to be borne in mind that though the election of a successful candidate 
is not to be lightly interfered with, one of the essentials of that law is also to 
safeguard the purity of the election process and also to see that people do not 
get elected by flagrant breaches of that law or by corrupt practices. In cases 
where the election law does not prescribe the consequences or dues not lay 
down penalty for non-compliance with certain procedural requirements of that 
law, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal entrusted with the trial of the case is not 
affected.’’ 

14. The original Act of 1951 included section 83 in the penal provisions of the 
Act contained in sections 85 and 90, but by the amendment of 1958 section 83 
was excluded from the said sections. In view of this amendment it must be 
taken that the Legislature did not intend to impose any penalty for non-compli- 
ance with the provisions of section 83. That being the position, on the test laid 
down by the Supreme Court in the above case the proviso in question cannot be 
construed as mandatory and the fact that the affidavit filed does not correspond 
to the form prescribed by the new rule 94A would not oust the jurisdiction of the 
Tribunal to try the case of corrupt practice. To hold otherwise would be to 
run counter to the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in the second 
paragraph of the observations quoted above and would defect one of the essential 
objects of the election law emphasised in that paragraph, viz., to safeguard the 
purity of the election process and to ensure that people do not get elected by 
flagrant breaches of that law or by corrupt practices. 

15. I hold accordingly that the proviso in question is not mandatory and that 
the petitioner is not debarred from agitating the question of corrupt practices in 
consequence of non-filing of an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of 
the allegations thereof. 

10. The next objection is that the election petition Is vague and does not con- 
tain full or sufficient facts or particulars about the corrupt practices 
alleged therein. In order to meet this objection the petitioner has filed 
(on 16th October, 1962) a petition with six annexures containing further particulars 
and prayed that they might be substituted for the original annexures- Objection 
has been taken to this petition on the ground that most of these particulars are 
new and that the Tribunal has no power to accept them by way of amendment 
of the election petition u/s 90(5) of the Act. 



„ - s 


GA , , 


OF INDIA : FEBRUARY '2.1 f 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


755 


17. in paragraph 6 of the election petition the first corrupt practice alleged is 
that the respondents No. 1 and 2, their workers and party members delivered 
speeches falsely indicating the Swatamra Tarty to which the petitioner belonged, 
exhorting the Muslim voters to vote lor the Congress conaiuate i.e-, respondent 
No. 1, tor their safety and making appeals on the ground oi caste. The names of 
the person who delivered such speecnes with the names of places and dates were 
enumereted in annexure A. In respect of certain instances, nowever, it was stated 
that speeches were delivered by tne persons named throughout the constituency 
within certain dates, in annexure A of the amendment petition the names of the 
viliages where speeches were delivered by the persons mentioned in annexure 
A of the election with dates have been separately enumerated. It also contains 
petition ah the instances enumerated in the original annexure A together witn 
certain new instances of delivery of speeches not mentioned therein. io these 
particularly objection has been taken on behalf of respondent No. 1. 


18. Section 00(5) lays down that “the Tribunal may..,, allow the particulars 
of any corrupt practice allaged in the petition to be amended or ampuned . . . . , 
but snail not allow any amendment of the petition which will have tne efiect or 
introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in tne petiuon". 
Reference was maue on behalf or uie petitioner to the decision or tne Supreme 
Court in the case of Harischandra Bajpai Vs, xriloki bmgh, reported in A.TA. iuo7 
S.C. 444, in which it was held that tne Tribunal has authority to allow an amend- 
ment even when tnat involves inclusion of new instances, provided they relate to 
a charge contained in the election petition and that it would be competent to the 
Tribunal to allow an amendment giving for the nrst time instances of a corrupt 
practice, provided such corrupt practice has been made a ground ot attack in tne 
petition, fnis decision was given under the old Act when the power or amend- 
ment was contained in section 68 (.3; of the Act and was wordeu differently from 
the present section 00(5). The old section 83(3) allowed the particulars of any 
corrupt practice included in the list required to be bled by the petitioner under 
section 83(81 to be amended and the Tribunal was also empowered to order further 
and better particulars in regard to any matter referred to therein to be furnished. 
The present section 00(51 does not contain the words turther the better parti- 
culars’, but it gives the Tribunal power to allow the particulars of any corrupt 
practice alleged in the petition to be not only amended but also amplified — the 
only limitation being that no amendment should be allowed wmen will have the 
effect of introducing particulars of a corrupt practice not previously alleged in the 
petition. There seems to be nothing in this section to debar the petitioner from 
furnishing new instances of a corrupt practice alleged in the petition by way of 
amplification. This section was considered in a decision of the Mysore High Court 
in the case of Sangappa Vs. Shivamurti, reported in A.I.R. 1058 Mysore 120, and 
it was held there that “amplification” means the act of increasing or enlarging 
and that it the word “particulars” in the section means “instances”, as was held by 
the Supreme Court in the case of Harish Chandra Vs. Triioki Singh in respect of 
the same word used in section 83(3), then wnen it is said that instances of corrupt 
practice may be amplified it means that such instances may be increased or, in 
other words, more instances can be given of such corrupt practice, ft was further 
held that the words “not previously alleged in the petition” occurring in section 
00(5) refer to “corrupt practice” and not to “particulars” and that the effect of 
section 00(5) is that if a corrupt practice has been alleged then further instances 
of such corrupt practice can be given, but that if a corrupt practice has not been 
alleged in the petition, then by trying to give particulars of a corrupt practice 
which has been alleged particulars of a corrupt practice which has not been 
alleged cannot be introduced. I cannot, threrefore, accept the contention that new 
instances of the first corrupt practice alleged in the petition of which some in- 
stances were given in the original annexure A cannot be furnished by way of 
amendment and amplification under section 90(5). The objection to the new in- 
stances in annexure A of the petition for amendment is therefore over-ruled. The 
other instances are merely repetitions of the instances mentioned in the original 
annexure A with more specific dtails by way of amplification to which no objec- 
tion can be taken. 


occurring in the amend- 


respondent No. 1 at has instance”. These woras aia nor occur i u me eiccuuu 
netttlon or in the annexures thereto. There the words used were on behalf ot 
or “in the interest of” rspondent No. 1 or “with his knowledge and connivance . 
It has been contended that by introduction of these words the petitioner has sought 
to make out a new case, since under section 100(1) (b) of the Act if any corrupt 
nractice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or Dy 
anv other person with the consent of a returned candidate or has election agent, 
then the election shall be declared void, but under section 100(1) (d) (ii) if any 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Past II- 


corrupt practice has been committed in the interests of the returned candidate by 
an agent other than his election agent, then it will have to be shown for getting 
the election declared void that the result of the election, in so far as it conerns 
the returned candidate, has been materially affected by that corrupt practice. This 
objection should succeed and such words in the amendment petition as were not 
used in respect of any corrupt practice in the election petition or in the annexures 
thereto will have to be ignored at the trial of the case in considering the question 
whether the case alleged comes under section 100(1) (b) or under section 100(1) 
(d) (ii) of the Act. 


20. In paragraph 7 of the election petition it was alleged that the Congress 
party workers, agents of respondent No. 1, distributed to his knowledge and con- 
nivance leaflets casting heinous and false aspersions on the character of the peti- 
tioner and three instances of such printed leaflets were given in annexure B to the 
petition without mentioning the names of persons who distributed them and when 
and where. In annexure B to the petition for amendment the names of the 
distributors of these three leaflets or pamphlets with dates and places of distribu- 
tion have been furnished and the pamphlets themselves which were not filled with 
the election petition have been filed. This is merely an amplification of the parti- 
culars of the corrupt practice alleged in the petition by supplying names and dates 
and I do not find any legitimate ground for objection to such additional parti- 
culars- My attention was drawn do a decision of the Madras High Court in the 
case of T. L. Sasivama Thevar Vs. V. Axunagiri, reported in 17 E-L.R. 313, in 
which allegations of obstruction of voters and assault on workers by the followers 
and party men of the returned candidate were made in the election petition with- 
out mentioning the names of the offenders and subsequent amendment supplying 
the names of the offenders was disallowed on the ground that it would create a 
new charge. With respect I am unable to follow this decision in view of the 
authorities already cited. Supplying of names cannot be said to amount to formu- 
lation of a new charge. With regard to the objection taken to the filing of the 
pamphlets with the amendment petition it should be noted that these are printed 
pamphlets and that the names of the printers and publishers were given in 
annexure B to the election petition. Reference was made in this connection to a 
decision of the Assam High Court, reported in A.I-R. 1958 Assam 97 (Bishwanath 
Vs. Haralal) in which a copy of a newspaper alleged in the election petition to 
have been distributed by the returned candidate was allowed to be filed subse- 
quently. I therefore allow the pamphlets to be filed with the petition for amend- 
ment as part thereof. The statements, however, as to whether they were distribut- 
ed at the instance of respondent No. 1, if not in the election petition, will have to 
be disregarded. 

21. In paragraph 8 of the election petition it was stated that respondent No. 1 
trot printed o*e booklet of songs called “Jawane Ki Hawa containing bitter songs 
against Swatotra Party and its leaders in village dialect and that his agents and 
workers distributed it in the whole constituency and the songs were sung on loud- 
speakers In annexure C were mentioned the names of the writer, the publisher 
and tfm pnnter of the booklet. The names of the distributors . or singers were 
SSt however mentioned. In annexure C of the amendment petition, the names 
of the distributors with dates and names of villages have been mentioned. This is 
also an amplification of the particulars mentioned m annexure C to the election 
petition and hence no objection can be taken to this amendment of that annexure- 

22. In paragraph 9 of the election petition it was mentioned that certain 

cormot practices enumerated in annexure D were employed during election by the 
corrupt pracucra earur t 0 f respondent No. 1 to his full knowledge and 

^enumeration in Minexu’rei) included hiring of bullock carts for carrying voters 
briblTtf HarijanCters and certain inducements offered by respondent No 1 

bXck carts hired and of the ^ agents LppUeh^The amcnlment 
with the names of the an amplification of the particulars 

proposed in respect of tms item therefore in order. Next, some in- 

mentioned in the have been enumerated in annexure D of the 

stances of hiring of Tvyiiine aizents who hired them and the 

amendment petition booth? tfwhich ?he Voters were carried there- 

dates and the names ° f n K that thehiring of rickshaws not having been men- 
by. Objection has been taken that tne wrmg ^ be introduce a, It is true 

not mentioned, but in paragraphs 14 and 




Sec. 8 (ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


757 


15 of the election petition itself several instances of hiring of rickshaws by the 
polling agents of respondent JNJo. 1 tor carrying voters to tne polling booths were 
mentioned together with the dates and the names or the polling agents and the 
polling booths- The very same instances of hiring of riensnaws W 2 th aii the details 
mentioned in paragraphs 14 and 15 have now been enumerated in annexure D to 
tire petition for amendment and it has been explained that this has been done 
because the instances should have been mentioned in the annexure and not in the 
body of the petition. The old section 83(2) of the Act returned the particulars of 
a corrupt practice to be set out in, a separate list but under the new section 83(1) 
(b) no such separate list is necessary and the particulars may be set out in the 
petition itself. However, when annex urea have been hied with the petition it is 
better that all such particulars should be embodied therein. This is what the 
amendment proposes to do. There is, therefore, no point in the objection raised, 
it has, however, been stated in the petition for amendment that aii these con- 
veyances! were hired at the instance of respondent Ho. 1 and his election agent- 
This statement is not in the election petition and should, therefore, be disregarded. 

23. With regard to the item of bribery of Harijan voters whose names were 
mentioned in annexure D to the election petition, annexure D to the petition for 
amendment mentions the names of the person or persons who bribed each of 
them together with the amounts of money paid as bribe and the dates of payment. 
Only one new instance of bribery has been mentioned in item (j) of this annexure. 
As I have already held, the petitioner is entitled to add new instances of the 
corrupt practice alleged by way of amplification. The additional particulars given 
in respect oi the original instances are also justified by way of ampiincation- The 
further statement that all these instances of bribery "were at the mstance of 
respondent No, 1 himself or his election and other agents with his connivance" 
should, however, be disregarded as it is at variance with the statement in the 
election petition. 

24. Curiously enough item (k) of instances of bribery in annexure D to the 
petition for amendment mentions a bribe of Bs. 5,000 paid by respondent No. 1 to 
respondent No. 5 Kajeshwar fa tel for withdrawal of his candidature on 22nd 
January, 1962. No such allegation was made in the election petition and the peti- 
tioner himself has, as already stated, prayed that the name of respondent No. 5 
should be expunged. This item of annexure D to the petition ior amendment, 
should, therefore, be struck out. 

25. Under the head of inducements offered by respondent No. 1 certain in- 
stances of opening of schools, payment or promise of grants-in-aid to schools, 
raising of or promise to raise schools to higher standards and donation to a library 
have been mentioned in annexure D to the petition for amendment together with 
the names of the persons who were concerned therein and dates and the amount 
of donation to the library. The items were there in the original annexure D but 
the names and other particulars were wanting. These details have now been sup- 
plied in annexure D to the petition for amendment by way - of amplification and 
they are therefore in order. A promise by respondent No. I to construct a bridge 
over a river is also mentioned in this annexure under the head of inducement. 
This was not mentioned in annexure D to the election petition but was mentioned 
in the petition itself in paragraph 10. This has now been included in the annexure 
where it should properly belong- There is an additional head of undue influence in 
the proposed amendment under which have been enumerated instances of threaten- 
ing of voters and polling agents of the petitioner by the election agents and workers 
jf respondent No. 1 These instances were not enumerated in annexure D to the 
election petition but they were mentioned in paragraph 17 of the petition itself. 
There can therefore be no objection to this item in annexure D to the amendment 
petition. 

26. In paragraph 11 of the election petition it was stated that during election 
Government vehicles and Government requisitioned vehicles on election duty were 
used by respondent No. 1 for carrying people to his election meeting and in 
annexure E to the petition the particulars of these vehicles with car numbers and 
date were mentioned In annexure E to the petition for amendment the very 
same vehicle numbers and statement have been repeated without addition of any 
new particulars. This annexure does not therefore require any amendment. 

27. In paragraph 18 of the election petition it was stated that the account sub- 
mitted by respondent No. 1 (under section 78 of the Act) was wrong and incor- 
rect and that he had left out many expenses incurred by him and had spent more 
than the limit fixed by law. No annexure was, however, filed with regard to this 
charge and no particulars of suppressed expenditure were furnished in the petition 
A new annexure F has now been filed with the petition for amendment and in it 
26 items of expenses totalling Rs. 1,70,649:15 Np. have been enumerated as having 
been incurred by respondent No. 1 for the purpose of the election and suppressed 



758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1888 [Part II- 


by him irom the account lodged with the returning officer, fcierious objection has 
been taken to this annexure and it has been contended vnat since nu particulars 
were furnished in the election petition in respect of this cnarge, as required by 
section 83(,1) (b) or me Act, the petitioner cannot now be anoweu to introduce 
these items of expenses for the first time by way of amendment or ampiiueation. 
The argument is that it is only “the particulars of any corrupt practice alleged m 
the petition" which, can be amended or amplified under section yiHo; of the Act 
and chat ii there are no particulars or instances of the alleged corrupt practice in 
me petition, no question of amendment or amplification ot non-existent particulars 
can arise, it is true that this charge stands on a somewhat different footing from 
ine other charges of corrupt practice in the election petition because in respect 
oi mem some particulars or instances were furnished either in the body ot the 
petition or in the annexures thereto which could be amended and amplified by the 
uuaiuon of more details or new instances, but I think that the decision of the 
Supreme Court in the case of Harish Chandra Vs. Tnioki Singn, cited above j* 
comprehensive enougn to include such a case also. 


28. In that case there was a charge in the election petition that the returned 
candidates could in furtherance of their election enlist the support of certain 
Government servants who were not, however, named and the nature of the support 
was not explained- No list setting forth the lull particulars of this charge was 
rued with the petition. Subsequently the petitioner prayed ior permission to 
amend the paragraph Dy aaamg the words- “tillage Headmen" with their names 
ana the tact that they worked and issueu appeal and evemuany became the polling 
agents of the returned candidates. The Supreme Court neio that even where no 
list had been hied, as required by section 63(2) Of die then Act it would be, 
compeient to the Tribunal to allow an amendment giving tor tne hrst time in- 
stances of corrupt practice, provided such corrupt practice has been made a 
ground ot attack in the petition. As alreaay stated, the law has not been enfmgea 
ill any substantial manner by the enactment oi section 90(5) in place of tile oiu 
section 83(3) and the Tribunal’s power of allowing amendment has not neen 
curtailed excepting that the limitation of the power enunciated in the last sentence 
oi the observation of the Supreme Court just quoted has been embodied in the 
section So it instances of a corrupt practice which has been alleged in the peti- 
tion could for the first time be introduced by way of furnishing further and better 
particulars under old section 83(3), they can as well be introduced by way of 
amendment and amplification under section 90(5) of the present Act, 


29 I hold accordingly that the petitioner is entitled to have the election 
petition amended by the introduction of the particulars enumerated in annexure F 
to the amendment petition. Subject to the reservations mentioned in this order 
the prayer for amendment be allowed and the annexures A to C, annexure D with 
the exception of item 3(k) under the head “Bribery to Harijans’’ which will bs 
struck out and annexure F be treated as part of the election petition, annexures A 
to D being substituted in place of the original annexures A to D to the election 
petition In view of these amendments it can be no longer maintained that the 
charges of corrupt practice in the petition are vague or without full and sufficient 
particulars. 


30 The respondents No. 1 and 5 then moved the High Court of Patna under 
Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution against this order and the High Court 
admitted their petitions and granted a stay of further proceedings, Proceedings 
were thereupon stayed on 7th February 1963. On 21st May 1903 orders were re- 
ceived from the High Court of Patna vacating the stay orders and directing the 
Tribunal to proceed with the further hearing of the case, though the applications 
were not disposed of. The trial of the case was taken up thereafter on 19th 
August 1963 and proceeded with till 29lh November 1903 when after examination 
of 97 witnesses for the petitioner further trial was adjourned pending decision of 
the High Court in the matter of the amendments allowed by me which had been 
challenged in the writ petitions not yet disposed of in order to prevent any possi- 
ble prejudice. Eventually the writ petitions were withdrawn by respondents 
No. 1 and 5 and intimation to that effect was received on 20th March 1963. The 
trial of the case was resumed thereafter and concluded on 2oth November 1964. 
124 witnesses were examined for the petitioner and 91 witnesses, for the respon- 
dent No 1 The other respondents did not appear at the trial. 


31 Before I proceed to the consideration of the next issue, viz., issue No. 3, 
I should refer again to the affidavit filed by the petitioner in terms of the proviso 
to Sec 83(1) of the R.F. Act because at the time of final argument it was urged 
bv the learned Advocate for the respondent No. 1 that the Tribunal should refuse 
to consider the evidence adduced regarding the alleged corrupt practices in the 
absence of a proper affidavit. Reference was made in this connection to a recent 



Zl, 


ALi A 8 , 1886 759 


decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Dwarka Prasad Mishra 
vs. Kamainarain Sharma, reported in a.i.u. i964 Madhya Pradesh 273. m whicn 
it was neld that the requirement of the aioresaid proviso is mandatory and that 
in the absence oi a proper affluavit in terms of the proviso the allegations 01 
corrupt practices cannot De enquired into, it was further held tnat the defect 
could not be cured by permitting the petitioner to file a fresh affidavit, in my 
order on the preliminary issues already quoted I had taken the view that the 
proviso was not mandatory and that the petitioner was not debarred from agitat- 
ing the question of corrupt practices in consequence ot the noil-ming of an affidavit 
in the prescribed form which would not have tne ellect ousting the jurisdiction 
of tne Tribunal to try the question. Though this view of mine was challenged 
by a writ petition filed in the High Court of Patna, the petition was ultimately 
withdrawn and hence there could not be any decision of the High Court on the 
question in tins particular case. There has, however, been a decision of the said 
High Court in another case before me in which also f had taken the same view 
regarding this proviso and against; which a writ petition nau been hied. This 
was M J Case No. 965 of 1962 (Mahesh Prosad Smha Vs. Manjay Lai) decided 
on 30th August 1963, in that case the High Court wniie upholding my view that 
the proviso was not mandatory but directory held that any defect or irregularity 
in tne affidavit required rectification and directed me to require the petitioner of 
that case to file another affidavit m the prescribed form or in the form in which it 
had already been hied after removing me detects thereirom. As already stated, 
the petitioner in the instant case riled a fresh affidavit on 16th October 1962 and 
prayed that this affidavit might bo placed on the record. That affidavit is in pro- 
per form mentioning separately the statements in the election petition with 
reference to paragraphs which are Hue to ins knowledge and. those wnich are true 
to his information derived from his election agent which he believes to be true. 
Though I had refused to accept this affidavit in the view that the Tribunal had 
no power to allow the defect in the affidavit to be cured by a subsequent affidavit, 
the above decision of the Patna High Court makes it clear that such defect can 
be cured by a xresh affidavit, A proper affidavit being, therefore, on tne record, 
the question can no longer be raised about tne Tribunal’s jurisdiction to try tne 
case of corrupt practices, Tnough the Madhya Praaesh High Court appears to 
have taken a different view on the point in tne case cited, I am bound to follow 
the above decision of the Patna High Court. 


. 32. Issue No. 3 — This issue relates to the dififeront kind of corrupt practices 

alleged in the election petition which cover practically all the sub-sections of 
Section 123 of the Act, though all of them were not pressed at the trial. The 
first of such corrupt practices alleged in annexure D to tne election petition relates 
to bribery of Harijans for giving votes to respondent no. 1 on 17th, kUth, 22nd 
and 24th February 1962, by respondent no. 1 and his election agent and polling 
agents. Nine names were mentioned in the said annexure with the names of their 
respective villages and from tne way they were mentiond it would appear that 
the petitioner's case was that the said nine persons were bribed. The names of 
the agents who bribed these persons were not, however, mentioned in this 
annexure. These names were given in the amendment petition (annexure D — 
item no. 3) with the amount paid by each to one or other of the persons named 
in the original annexure D. Ail the persons named in the original annexure-D 
excepting one have been examined ana they have deposed that they received the 
respective sums mentioned in the amended annexure D from the persons named 
therein for bribing Harljan voters in order that the latter might vote for the 
respondent no, 1. They do not say that they were the voters who were bribed, 
but they say that they received these sums for distribution amongst Harljan voters 
of their respective localities and that they distributed the same 10 a large number 
of such voters at certain rates per head. Neither in the original nor in the 
amended annexure D has it been suggested that these sums were paid or received 
for distribution amongst others. On the other hand the language used in both 
suggests definitely that the recepients of these sums were the voters who were 
bribed. Not one of the Harljan voters amongst whom these sums are alleged 
to have been distributed has been named by the witnesses or examined There 
is also no means of knowing whether such persons were actually voters or Hari- 
ians, as alleged. 


33. It has accordingly been complained on behalf of the respondent no. 1 that 
the petitioner has sought to make out a new case and it has been contended that 
such a charge of bribery cannot be established without disclosure of the names 
of the persons who were actually bribed and without proof not only of the fact 
that they were bribed but also of the fact that they were voters Sub-sec ( 1 ) of 



7 6o THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALi , A 8, 


L ri *- 


Sec, 123 lays down that any gift, oiler or promise of any gratification by a candi- 
date or his agent etc., will constitute the corrupt practice of bribery, only if it is 
made with the object, directly or indirectly, of inducing an elector to vote or 
refrain from voting. Where the charge is that bribes were paid to certain voters 
to induce them to vote for a particular candidate, certainly the names of the voters 
so Induced must be mentioned and proof must be given of their having received 
the bribes. The learned Advocate for respondent no. 1 referred in this connection 
to a decision of the Patna High Court in the case of Chandra Sekhar Singh Vs. 
Sarjoo Prasad Singh, reported in A.I.R. 1961 Patna 189, In which it was laid down 
that particulars of a corrupt practice alleged in the election petition must neces- 
sarily include the names of the electors alleged to have been subjected to such 
corrupt practice. This, it was held, followed from the use of the word "including” 
In Cl. (b) of Sec. 83(1) of the Act which indicated that the names of the parties 
alleged to have committed the corrupt practice did not exhaust the list of the 
names of the parties to be given In the particulars. This case related to 
a corrupt practice under sub, sec. (2) of sec. 123, but another unreported 
decision of the Patna High Court given In M. J. Case no. 36 of 1964 (Chandreswar 
Vs. Basuprasad) has been referred to and a certified copy of the judgment hied 
(Ex. 1) which related to the corrupt practice of bribery. It was argued in this 
ease that it was not necessary to state in the particulars who had taken the bribe 
and that all that was required was to state who had given the bribe. This view 
was negatived and it was held that it was essential that the names of the persons 
who received the bribes should also be mentioned in the particulars in order to 
ensure a fair and effectual trial of the case. ThlB decision was also referred to 
In the decision reported in A.I.R. 1961 Patna 189. An attempt was made by the 
learned Advocate for the petitioner to get over the effect of these decisions by 
referring to the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Bhagwan 
Datta Shastri Vs. Ram Ratanji Gupta, A.l.R. i960 Supreme Court 200, that where 
notwithstanding the absence of particulars the evidence is allowed to be given 
and taken the question would not be one of absence of jurisdiction of the Tribunal 
to try the matter but as to whether there has been any material prejudice 
occasioned by the absence of particulars. It cannot, however, be said that there 
has been no prejudice in this case, because not only were the names of the Hari- 
jan voters actually bribed not disclosed in the annexure— original or amended, 
but they have not been disclosed even in the evidence. If their names had been 
disclosed, the' respondent no. 1 could have examined them to deny that they 
received any bribe. In any case, the authorities cited are dear that the corrupt 
practice of bribery cannot be proved without evidence being given of the particular 
electors who were so bribed. 


34. The learned Advocate for respondent no. 1 finally argued that though the 
witnesses examined by him have deposed that they distributed the sums received 
by them amongst unnamed Harijan voters, they have also stated that they deduct- 
ed a share for themselves and that this is sufficient to prove bribing of at least 
those persons amongst them who are Harijans. The Harijan witnesses who have 
deposed to such distribution of bribes after retaining a share for themselves are 
i t- 4 Jamuna Sad, P.W. 5 Panchelal Methar, P.W. 10 Khakkar Paswan and 
P.W. 11 Ganga Paswan all of whom have been named in the original annexure 
D - other witnesses examined on this point FWs. 3, 12 and 67 are Brahmins 

and P.W. 69 Is a Yadav by caste. Two of them said that they had retained some 
moneys In their hands but It does not appear from their evidence that they 
retained the same as bribes and in any case they are not Harijans PW 4 who 
belongs to the Musahar community of Harijans has said that one Rajendra Singh 
asked him to persuade the Musahar voters of his locality to vote for respondent 
n°- 1 and one day before the polling paid him Rs. 250/- out of which he retained 
Rs. 26/- for himself and distributed the balance at the rate of Rs 2/- per head 
He was paid the money In 10 rupee notes but he has not explained how or when 
he change these notes and distributed the money at the rate of Rs. 2/- per head 
He is a day labourer and his statement is absolutely uncorroborated. No evidence 
i haV hl e ^£ Ven a S 0U + t Ibe identity of Rajendra Singh and it has not been shown 
t at he was an agent of the respondent no. 1 and was authorised by him to nay 
this money P.W. 5 who belongs to Kalyanpur has said that 10 days before 
polling he had been approached by Banwarl Babu, son of respondent no and 
one Gobardhan Bhai Patel with a request to vote for respondent nT 1 and that 
one day before polling at 8 p.m. In the night he was nsld tg iln / ' u T tha ; 

Hl h n!i Se +n 0r Educing the Methar voters to vote for the said respondent" HWiG* 
trlbuted the sum on the same night at the rate nf Tts 9/ £r sP t? lcJ j “is- 



Sec, S(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHAI.OTTNA 8 , 188(5 761 


in a way by P.W.s 67 and 69 who are also from the same village Kalyanpur and 
who have deposed that on the same night Banwarl Babu had been to their houses 
and paid them Rs. 500/- and Rs, 100/- respectively for distribution amongst 
Harijan voters. They do not, however, mention Gobardhan Bhal Patel. P.W. 5 
has not explained how he came to know Gobardhan Bhal Patel who lives at 
Samastlpur about 12 miles off. He has also not stated that he was a leader of 
Methar community and no reason has been alleged why he should have been 
approached, if two other apparently more Influential persons of the village had 
been approached for the same purpose on the same night. P.W. 67 has stated 
that he distributed money amongst Harljans at the rate of Rs. 5/- per head and 
P.W. 69 has said that he distributed it at the rate of Rs. 4/- per head. It is 
difficult to believe a story like this of three different persons distributing bribes 
amongst the same class of voters at such varying rates as Rs. 2/-, Rs. 4/- and 
Rs. 6/- per head. Such distribution would have defeated its very purpose. Both 
Banwarl Babu and Gobardhan Bhal Patel (B W 271 have denied the story. 
According to R.W. 20, P.W. 5 was a worker of the Swatantra Party during the 
election. P.W. 10 Khakkar Paswan of Sahit has said that on the night before 
polling one Tripit Singh paid him Rs. 100/- out of which he retained Rs. 20/- 
and distributed the balance amongst voters at the rate of Rs. 2/- per head. Triptt 
Mngh (R.W. 59) has denied the story and stated that P.W. 10 is a sepoy in the 
employment of the petitioner. Tripit Singh was a congress worker but It has not 
geen shown that he was an agent of respondent No. 1. P.W. 11 Gamra Paswan of 
Pa err a has deposed that he received Rs. 200/- from one Nem Naraln Stneh on the 
befor ? polIn ? and that he retained Rs. 50/- for himself and distributed 
Ia f ca at th ? ™teof Bs- 2/- per head. His evidence has been corroborated, 
L b - v ™ em Narain is concerned, by P.W. 13 who Has added that 

NJlfn h , P J°uf th L°' P avment Banwarl Babu had been to the house of Nem 

had canvn«i5 ai f d Rs l, i° 0/ ‘ * n hie presence. This witness admitted that he 

to Relieve Da the petRi ? ner during the election and it is therefore Impossible 
* e , e A bat Banwarl Babu would have paid any amount meant for brlhing 

proved that The wltness , ls obviously interested. It has not been 
snn Tri w /nT Na , rai , n , w " s an agent of respondent No. 1. He Is dead but his 

Rs 500/. >n I en ed t5 an - w ?i5 l Babu ever came to bis bouse and naid 

T?’ “ s fath er or that his father paid Rs. 200/- to P.W, 11. The latter 

also^enied 0 !^ 111 '! WOrk f d for the petitioner during election. Banwarl Babu has 

the respondent No T *Tv. Naraln ' There ara other witnesses for 

any of (he show v/u^ h ? ve denle d the story of bribing of Harilan voters In 
of +v°At „ , above villages, In these circumstances I cannot believe the evidence 
Sunreme Go ho,d this charee Proved. Following the decision ofX 

brlbe-tsk.',/ themselves' ie ot 'h.t cb.r.elr ’”^ , “ ,lmonte -f the 

tatioris^ere^ii'a^held 1 out'hTthe vtiirlV* the de ? io " Petition that other temp- 

«MoSl’ h hl P S™fned ld fou' 'T' 4 *” 0 '' 1 !?* brid *« bulk. ’“m'e 

f. SMffiE 

before tbe noTHmr T responi aent No 1 came to Chandsurari by Jeep 10 days 

P u are in this Village on 18th February, 1902 met 
at his own P cost to P remove thei^diV m*** constructed over the river Bflluhai 

Ume dS Se n tVer ** ri T ba ?£ and Iald the foundation ^Ihe*' Irid^wtth Scks^nd 

^them n tbe Vn a gTp ec& KtV 

5ST.SJ8 {rf&Z&Ss 1 - T>" SSBJS 5?STAS! 

silt YZ 7 k h. d ,eVKf“^ 1 $TJ!&££i2 

saar , h f ds r-jssKa; 

placed the bricks. There h I a maspl1 waitln * there who dug the hole and 
respondent No 1 went to the river amongst the witnesses as to how the 

these discrepancy es^the whole foot ., or by je f p ' Ap art from 

no evidence that anv memorial' S °^ n i d V? I JT obable and even absurd, There is 
y memorial or appeal had been addressed to respondent No. 1 



76 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 I965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


by the people of that locality at any time emphasising the necessity for such a 
bridge. There is a bridge two miles off as is admitted by the witnesses. Nobody 
has said that on his visit to the village or at the meeting anybody referred to this 
matter or reouested the resnondent No. 1 to pet a bridge constructed for them 
or to lay the foundation therefor. The evidence on the other hand is that he did 
ail this voluntarily on the spur of the moment. Construction of a bridge on a 
river requires a hutm outlay. It is difficult to believe that a responsible person 
like the respondent. No. 1 who has been a Minister of the Central Government for 
several years would have made such a promise, when he could have easily said 
that he 'would ask the local authorities or the Government for the removal of 
their pNevance, and to suggest that he then and there went to the river bank on 
his own motion and arranged for brick and materials and laid the foundation of 
the bridge, without a scheme or an estimate having been prepared beforehand, is 
simply childish. It is admitted that there was a bridge in this village which only 
required renalrs having been broken 4 or 6 years back and so there was no neces- 
sity for a new bridge. It has not been alletred that this area was so hostile to the 
respondent No. 1 that a dramatic gesture like this was necessary to win over the 
peonle. The respondent No. 1 has denied that he made anv such promise at the 
meeting and did not remember to have gone to the river honk. The meeting took 
place on the grounds of a llbrarv and the secretary of the library has been examin- 
ed hv the resnondent No. 1 (R.W. 171 as also the person who presided over the 
meeting (R.W. 191. They as also R.W. 18 have denied that there was any reference 
to the construction of a bridge in the sneeoh of respondent No. 1 or that anv 
foundation laying ceremony was undertaken by him. There was a ceremony in 
the library the building of which he opened, according to these witnesses. In these 
circumstances. I ennnot believe the petitioner’s case about this item of corrupt 
practice. 

30. Evidence was also given hv the netitioner that at other meeting at village 
Parr twirl about, tfl or 12 days before the polling the respondent No. 1 appealed 
to the Muslim voters to vote for the congress and stated that if anv other oartv 
came to power, they would have to go to Pakistan, With regard to this item of 
corrupt practice, it was oniv stated in para 6 of tfte election netltion that the res- 
nondent No. 1 and his workers and partvmen exhorted the Muslim voters to vote 
for the congress on the ground that they were onlv safe in the hands of the congress 
The narticulars of the Places where such propaganda was made were enumerated 
In Annexure A hut village Panr was not mentioned there, In the amended 
Annexure A village Panr was mentioned as item No. 9. the date of the meeting 
was given as 11th Fehruarv. 1902 and the resnondent No. 1 was mentioned as the 
only nerson resnonslble for such propaganda K°ven witnesses have deposed to this 
meeting, viz., PWs, 24, 27. 30. 31. 92. 33 and 78. two of whom are Muslims: viz.. 
P.W. 30 Mustaque Ahmed and PW. 78 Anwarul Han The learned Advocate for 
the petitioner relied more upon the evidence of the Muslim witnesses because the 
anneal was addressed to them and as regards the others referred to them as cor- 
roborative witnesses. The exact words used at the meeting have not been repro- 
duced by anv witness. No notes were made and they obviously could not remem- 
ber the words spoken. Their evidence in general is that the respondent No. 1 in 
his speech praised the congress and then called upon the Muslims to vote for 
congress ns the congress had always helped and supnorted them in the past. 
Thereafter he is said to have expressed the oniuion that if any other oartv came 
into power, the Muslims mieht have to go to Pakistan. This last statement, as al- 
ready stated, is not mentioned in para 0 of the election petition It docs rot also 
occur in the amended Annexure A. Tf the respondent No. 1 annealed to the Muslim 
voters t.o sunoort the congress because the congress had helped and served them, 
such anneal would not constitute corrupt craftier. This is conceded bv the learned 
advocate for the petitioner but he areued that the statement that if anv other 
n^rtv came to nnwer, the Muslims mlcht have to go to Pakistan amounted to in- 
direct interference, or attempt to interfere, with the free exercise of the electoral 
right bv the Muslim voters within the meaning of sub-section (21 of section 123 of 
the Act. The learned Advocate for the respondent No. 1. however, argued that 
such a statement, even If made, would not constitute corrupt Dractice under this 
sub-section, as it should be construed to be a reference to the oolicy and programme 
of other parties as contrasted with the policy and programme of the congress. 
In any case. It is not clear from, the evidence of the witnesses that this statement was 
made as an inducement to the Muslims to vote for the congress because they had 
already been appealed to vote for the congress on the ground of what the con- 
gress had done for them. The main question, however, is whether such a state- 
ment was made Ht all. The respondent No. 1 did not deny that h° addressed, a 
meeting at Panr. though he did not exactly remember the meeting, hut he empha- 
tically denied that he addressed the Muslims in the manner stated bv toe wit- 
nesses. P.W. 30 has stated that after the meeting he was introduced to the respond- 
ent No 1 who appealed to him personally to support him in the same terms m 



Sr c. S(ii)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1905,/PHALGUNA 6, 1886 


which he expressed himself at the meeting. This also the respondent No. 1 has 
denied. Resoondent’s witness No. 43 who attended the meeting denied that there 
was anv talk between the respondent No 1 and P.W, 30 after the meeting. He and 
also R.W. 44 who attended the meeting have denied that the respondent No. 1 had 
appealed to the Muslims in the manner suggested. In these cfrcumstanees, very- 
strict proof is necessary that such a statement was actually made. In the absence 
of precise evidence about the exact words used and the context in -which they 
were used, it would be most unsafe to rely upon the recollection of ordinary 
villagers like these as to what was said, specially when there is no reference to 
the obiected statement and even no mention of the meeting at the Panr in the 
election petition. It does not apnear from the evidence that Panr was a predo- 
minantly Muslim locality, that the meeting was largelv attended by Muslims and 
that there was anv special reason or occasion for an appeal in these terms. The 
respondent No. 1 as a responsible Minister of the Central Government cannot be 
believed to have irresnonsiblv held out such threats to the Muslims. Tn the cir- 
cumstances. I am unable to rely upon the petitioner’s witnesses and hold that any 
corrupt practice under sub-sertion (2) of section 123 was committed by the res- 
pondent No. 1 in respect of his address at the meeting held at Panr, 

37. In the same para 6 of the election petition it was further alleged that the 
respondent No. 1 committed the corrupt practice of canvassing voters on the 
ground of caste and evidence has been adduced that, being himself a Rajput by 
caste, he appealed to Rainut voters to vote for him on caste basis at two places 
where he addressed meetings, viz., at Mfrzapur and at Sahit. A meeting at 
Sahit on 11th February. 1962 is mentioned in the original Annexure A but the 
meeting at Mlrzapur is not mentioned there. It is. however, mentioned in the 
amended Annexure A in which Mirzanur and Panr have been bracketed together 
under date 11th February. 1962. That the anneal was addressed specially to 
Rainut voters was not mentioned anywhere. The respondent No. 1’s evidence 
ia that there was no meeting at Mirzanur where he was detained by some 
villagers on his wav to the meeting at Sahit and that he got down from his car 
for a few minutes and visited a school where he was welcomed and garlandpd. 
He has denied that; he addressed anv meeting there. Three witnesses for the 
petitioner, viz.. PWs. 15. 16 and 77. bav" deposed about this meeting. Their 
evidence, however, ia that the respondent No. 1 protested against the petitioner’s 
anneal to the Bhumihars to vote for him because he was a Bhumihar and then 
said that in this situation the Raiput should support him. Thev have not soeci- 
ftcailv stated that he annealed to the Raiputs to support him because he was a 
Rainut or on caste basis. The respondent No. 1 was admittedly accompanied bv 
R.W. °fi Rameswar Singh, an Advocate of Samastipur. and he and also R.Ws. 37 
and 57 have supported his statement that there was no meeting at Mirzanur and 
that he did not make anv caste appeal to the Raiputs there. I cannot consider 
the witnesses for the petitioner to be more reliable than the respondent No. l’s 
witnesses and accent their testimony, soeciallv when this meeting was not men- 
tioned in the original Annexure A. About the meeting at Sahit held on the 
same flay the evidence of the petitioner's witnesses Is different. P.Ws. 17. 36 and 
39 have deposed to this meeting and stated that the meeting was addressed at 
first bv Rameswar Singh and Satyapal Misra who snoke abusing the petitioner 
and appealing to the Rajput voters to vote for the respondent No. 1 and that the 
respondent No. 1 snoke at the end supporting the statements of the previous 
speakers. Thev have neither quoted the exact words uttered nor stated that 
the respondent No. 1 sneciflcsllv requested the Rainut voters to vote for him on 
caste basis. Such evidence is nuitc vaeue and cannot he taken as strict proof 
of the corrupt practice alleged. The respondent No 1 has denied that there 
were other speakers at this meeting and also denied that he made there any 
appeal to Raiputs on tbe ground of caste. R.W. 26, Rameswar Singh. Advocate, 
to whom I have alreadv referred also denied that he snoke at this meeting and 
made anv appeal to Rajputs on caste basis and further denied that the respondent 
No, 1 made any caste anneal there in his speech, R.W. 7 Satvanal Misra has 
slmilarlv denied that he snoke at the meeting or that the respondent No 1 marie 
any oastp anneal to the Rajputs. Anothe r witness present at the meeting _ R.W 
35 has said the same thing. Though the Sahit meeting is mentioned in original 
Annexure A and the names of the other speakers are there, so far as evidence 
goes, it is. as alreadv stated, quite vague in respect of the respondent No. 1 and, 
in anv case. I cannot consider the witnesses for the petitioner to he more reliable 
than the latter’s witnesses and hold that this allegation of caste appeal to the 
Raiput voters has been proved. Finallv there was an allegation that an anneal 
was made to the Maithil Brahmin communitv bv Shri Laxmi Kanta Jha, M.L.C. 
to support the respondent No. 1 because of the services rendered bv him to that 
communitv and some witnesses were examined on the point, but it has been 
denied bv the said M.L f i'R.W, 3U> and the Earned Advocp+o for the petitioner 
conceded at the time of argument that such appeal, even if made, could not 



764 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Pabt II- 


constitute a corrupt practice under sub-section (3) of Section 123 on the ground 
of caste or community as the respondent No. 1 was not a member of the Maitbil 
Brahmin community. By finding therefore is that no commission of corrupt 
practice under this sub-section has been proved. 


38. The next item of corrupt practice alleged to have been committed by the 
respondent No. 1 is under sub-section (3A) of Section 123. It, was alleged in 
para 8 of the election petition that by the printing and distribution of a book 
of songs in Hindi dialect entitled ‘Jawane Ki Hawa’ the respondent No. 1 
incited communal feeling in the minds of the Hindus and created hatred against 
the Swatantra Party. No copy of this book-let was filed with the election peti- 
tion. nor the names of the distributors mentioned In the Annexures. A copy 
was, however, filed by the respondent No. 4 with his written statement and 
another copy was filed with the amendment petition and the names of the 
distributors were mentioned in Annexure C thereof with the dates and places 
of distribution. It was stated there that two persons distributed this booklet 
on lGth February, 1962, at Samastlpur where a meeting was addressed by the 
late Prime Minister Pandit Jwaharlal Nehru and that during a mela called 
Basant Panchml Mela held at village Bajitpur the songs of this booklet were 
sung on a loud-speaker bv a hired singer whose name was unknown from 1st 
February, 1962. to 18th February, 1962. Evidence was given regarding distri- 
bution and singing of the songs in the booklet by seven witnesses Including the 
alleged singer (P.Ws. 103, 104, 106, 108, 115, 117 and 120), The booklet which 
Is Ex. 4 contains eight songs and an English translation made by the Translator 
of the Patna High Court “(P.W. 118) has been furnished of songs No. 1, 7 and 8 
and the eighth song, according to the petitioner’s advocate, offends against sub- 
section (3A) of Section 123 (Ex, 4-1). This song runs as follows: — ‘‘Rajas and 
Maharajas being unanimous have formed this Swatantra Party. Do not move 
behind this party because it is oppressive, They will restore the vested 
Zamindari and they will practice greater high handedness than before. They 
got the country partitioned and created Pakistan in India. Rajagopalaehari Is 
the stooge of Mr. Jinnah, He will cheat you by telling lies. At first he will 
incite you and then get you crushed. Oh brother, save yourself from the 
Swatantra Party because it is a mischievous party”. From the trend of this 
song it is clear that it is a hitter attack on the Swatantra Party, as also the 
other songs are and on the leader of that party Shri Rajagopalaehari, but, however, 
reprehensible such attack may be, that would not constitute corrupt practice. 
It has, however, been argued that the statement that Sri Rajagopalaehari was 
the stooge of Mr, Jinnah and created Pakistan was calculated to rouse communal 
feeling amongst the Hindus and spread hatred between the Hindus and Muslims. 

I am unable, however, to take such a view of this statement. It only refers , to 
Sri Rajagopalachari’s responsibility for the creation of Pakistan and though it is 
mean and reprehensible to depict that leader as the stooge of Mr. Jinnah, there 
is no scope for the suggestion that the statement was intended or calculated to 
create bad blood between Hindus and Muslims and rouse communal feeling. 
There is no communal appeal here either to the Hindus or to the Muslims, I 
cannot therefore agree with the contention of the learned Advocate for the 
petitioner that it offends against sub-section (3A) of Section 123. 

39. In this view it is not necessary to discuss at length the evidence pf the 
witnesses who have spoken to the distribution of the booklet and the singing of 
the songs. It is necessary to state, however, that there is absolutely no evidence 
connecting the respondent No, 1 with this booklet. It was stated in the election 
petition that he got it printed. It was published by a person named Ramdeo 
Singh described as the author and printed in Rambhajan Press, Samastlpur. 
The owner or manager of this press has not been examined. One witness-F.W. 
119 Jugal Kishore Prasad however stated that he worked as a compositor in this 
press and that on last day of January 1962 Banwarl Babu, the son and election 
agent of the respondent No. 1, came to the press and gave the manuscript of the 
booklet to the manager of the press who called the witness and asked him to 
compose the manuscript. After that the booklet was printed. He was not he 
actual printer of the document and for a compositor to remember what he had 
composed two years ago is certainly difficult No books Papers 
press were called by the petitioner. Banwan Babu has denied the story. In “ 
of this denial I am unable to find on the uncorroborated statement of a witness 
like this that he got it printed. P.W. 120, the alleged singer, said that he was 
engaged, and that the book of songs was handed over to him, b y.Banwan Bnbm 
I have already stated that the singer was described as unknown in the amende 
Annexure C, It has not been explained how his name was obtained There is 
no allegation in Annexure C that Banwarl Babu had engaged the singer, A rickshaw 
puller (P.W. 117) has been examined who has said that his nckrtiaw was hired 
by SItaram Pankaj from which the singer sang the songs and PW. 115 has sal 
that SItaram Pankaj hired his loudspeaker for this purpose, P.Ws. 103, 104, 106 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 765 


and 108 have deposed to distribution and named the distributors, viz., Sitaram 
Pankaj, Kamala Babu and Tripit Narayan Singh who have denied the fact 
R.Ws. 10, 59 and (35). The owner of the Basant Panehmi Mela ground (R.W. 85), 
a cousin of the petitioner, and several other witnesses who attended the Mela 
have also denied that these songs were sung there. The evidence, in my opinion, 
is worthless and I find that no connection of the respondent No. 1 or his election 
agent has been established with the publication or distribution of this booklet. 

40. In paragraph 7 of the election petition it was alleged that the congress 
party workers and agents of respondent No. 1 distributed to his knowledge and 
with his connivance certain leaflets in Hindi casting heinous and false aspersions 
on the character of the petitioner and three such leaflets were mentioned in 
Annexure B without any other particulars regarding publication and distri- 
bution. Only one of these leaflets was, however, referred to at the trial and 
it has tho title "Kalka Kukarmi, aj Sadhu ke besh me”. This leaflet was not 
filed with the election petition. In the written statement of respondent No, 4 
Hemanta Kumar Chowdhuri. son and election agent of the petitioner, certain 
particulars were furnished about this leaflet and a copy thereof was filed with 
it. Another copy was filed with the petition for amendment and in the amended 
Annexure B full particulars were furnished including the names of the distri- 
butors of tho leaflet and the names of the villages where it was distributed with 
dates. The leaflet has been marked Ex. 2 and an English translation of it has 
been made by P.W. 118 Vindeswari Prasad, Translator of the Patna High Court. 
This is the English translation (Ex. 2-1) 

‘‘Sinner or yesterday turns a pious man today. 

List of the black deeds of Ram Ashray Choudhry. 

(1) It is known to all that he is the man who spoiled the character of Sita 

Devi, mistress, and reduced her to the state of begging from door 
to door. It is for this reasons that he has been showering shoes on 
his wife. The people have seen the instances of his misbehaviour 
with the girls of Nag family. He has spoiled their prestige and at 
the same time blackened his face. 

(2) How does he think himself to be a respectable person when, on mis- 

behaving by force at the house of the Dushadh in Dushadh Toll in 
Daisingsarai Ganj he had to sustain assault by shoes and his cycle 
was snatched away. 

(3) Is it his prestige that he is alive even after being beaten with Kurpi 

(instrument for cutting grass) and basket by the girls who cut 
grass? 

(4) Was his daughter mad that she ended her life by putting herself in 

fire? It is not so. He burnt her to death as she became pregnant 

only when she was unmarried. Sin cannot be concealed in spile of 

an attempt to do so. His misdeeds were at last brought to light. 

(5) Does he think himself to be the descendant of an Englishman that he 

allowed his cinema house to run even on the date on which the late 
Father of the Nation Bapu was shot dead by a sinner like him. 
The entire world plunged into grief while he was giving proof of 
the fact that he was a descendant of an Englishman. 

(6) It is his vain dream to expect himself to be a leading member in the 

House of People when he has no knowledge of Hindi alphabet 
and still tries to massacre English language. He has an old coat of 
1942 and a half pant by putting on the same he assumes a pose 
of an Englishman. He should shed tears for the action of his father 
that he could not make him literate. He cannot get the support 

of the people, by any means, nor can his English father come to 

his help. It is democracy. The people will not welcome him by 
casting votes (for him) but by showering shoes (on him). 

(7) It is his another vain dream to exoect to be a leader that in spite of 

his highhanded actions to the poor he tries to persuade them by 
giving temptation. He has forgotten that he demolished the huts 
of Turha community and brought into existence Ram Ashray Nagor. 
The walls of Ram Ashray Nagor have been built by the mortar 
prepared with the blood of the poor. 

(8) He has obtained a sum of Rupees one lac for contesting (he election. 

Has he received this money from his English father or from ms step 
brothers, who in spite of being congressmen have become deserters 
today ? When he cannot give more than Rs. 50 to his unworthy 
sons for their expenses, it is not understandable as to how he has 
become so lavish in expenses. 



765 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


(9) It is known to the people that he has taken three lacs of rupees In 
the name of cold storage after practising fraud upon the Govern- 
ment and after converting his old house into cold storajge he allowed 
thousands of maunds of potatoes belonging to the shopkeepers to 
rot therein and when being asked to pay the compensation for the 

loss, he is threatening them and they have no chance at all of get- 

ting back their money. He has embezzled thirty thousand rupees 
of the fund of the school about which a report has been already sent 
to the authorities. Not only this much, but the Balika Vidvalaya 

had to be closed on account of his keeping the mistress with himself. 

The entire public of Dalsingsarai denounces his mean temperament. 

(10) There are many instances of his misdeeds which will be brought to 
light in bulletin No. 2. Being the resident of Dalsinghsarai it 

becomes our duty to acquaint the public of Samastipur and 

Warlsnagor also with the actions of wrong doer like him. 

Public of Dalsingsarai area.” 

41. It will be seen from the translation that leaflet is in fact a scurrilous 

document and contains most heinous and damaging aspersions on the personal 
character and conduct of the petitioner. He has stated that all the statements 
of fact in this leaflet are absolutely false and there has been no allegation on 
the other side that any of these statements are true, There can be no doubt 
that the publication of such statement, if made by the respondent No, 1 or his 
agents, would offend against sub-section (4) of Section 123. This sub-section 

makes publications by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the 

consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement of fact which is 
false, and which he cither believes to be false or does not believe to be true, 
In relation to the personal character or condifct of any candidate, being a state- 
ment reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate’s election. 
It has, however, been contended on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that in order 
to attract this sub-section the statements in the leaflet should not only be proved 
false but that it should also be proved that the person responsible for its publi- 
cation believed them to be false or did not believe them to be true and that 
the onus to prove it is on the petitioner. Such proof it is contended, is wanting 
in this case and the mere statement of the petitioner that the statements of fact 
are false is not sulllcient to meet the requirements of the sub-section. Reference 
has beep mode in this connection to the decision of the Patna High Court in 
the case of Badrlnarain Singh Vs. Kamdeo Prasad Singh, reported in AIR 1961. Patna 
41. It was laid down in that case that all the essential ingredients of sub-section 
(4) of Section 123 must be proved and that the onus to prove them lies heavily 
on the petitioner, one of the essential ingredients being that the person respon- 
sible for publication must either believe the statement published to be falls or 
must not believe it to be true. There the impugned statement was that the 
petitioner had tendered apology for offences committed by him in the Congress 
Movement in 1942 and that the case against him had been withdrawn in conse- 
quence. The petitioner denied the apology but admitted withdrawal of the case, 
though he did not disclose the reasons therefor, The statement was based on a 
letter of the Sub-divisional Officer. Deoghar. It was held that mere denial of 
the apology in these circumstances was not sufficient to discharge the onus that 
lay upon the petitioner as he did not call for the relevant record to establish 
that he had not tendered apology and that the publisher was protected, as he had 
reasonable grounds to believe the statement to be true. Thus the facts of that 
case are quite distinguishable from the facts of the present case in which the 
statements are such that no question can arise of the publisher having any 
reasonable grounds to believe them to be true. No such suggestion was made 
either to the petitioner or to any of his witnesses. In these circumstances I 
think that the denial by the petitioner of the truth of these statements is suffi- 
cient to discharge the onus. 

42. The conduct of the person who was responsible for the publication of 
this scurrilous document cannot certainly be sufficiently condemned, but the 
question here is whether the respondent No. 1 -was responsible for its publi- 
cation. He has denied it and it has been nointed out on his behalf that he was not 
the only candidate contesting the election against the petitioner, but that there 
was another candidate, the respondent No. 2, who got more votes than the peti- 
tioner and who was as much, if not more, interested in reducing the petitioner’s 
votes in order to better his own election prospects and who, therefore, might as 
well have been responsible for its publication. The leaflet itself does nol 
contain the name of any press or of anv publisher. No evidence has been given 
that Purushottam Prasad Singh alias Banwarl Babu, his son and election agent, 
got it printed from Sankar Press, Patna. This press Is mentioned in the amend- 
ed Armexure B. One Dhirendra Kumar Verma (P,W. 911 deposed that he had 
worked as a compositor in the said press for a period of 1$ months from 16th 



$e& 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, J965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 767 


January to the end of February 1962 on piece-rate basis and that in the second 
week of February Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra came to the pres 3 and met 
the proprietor Radha Krishna Prasad who called him and giving him the manus- 
cript of the leaflet asked him to compose and print 3000 copies immediately. He 
was directed not to print the name of the press therein. He immediately composed 
and printed the proof copy and the proprietor after correction of the proof gave 
the printing order, Bv 8 a'.m. on the next day the copies were ready and delivered 
to the proprietor and the proof copy and the manuscript were destroyed. He 
has not said to whom the copies were delivered by the proprietor and when. 
As to how he knew Banwari Babu his evidence is that he had once seen him at 
the Collector's Court at Darbhanga in 1957 where he had gone to meet his father- 
in-law who was a pleader’s clerk. He could not name the pleader. He admitted 
that his father-in-law had no case in the Collector’s Court that day. He has 
not explained who pointed out Banwari Babu to him or why. He admitted that 
his name was not entered in the register of the regular employees of the press 
because he was a thika piece-rate worker. He was neither the printer nor a 
permanent or long-term employee and it is difficult to believe that he of all 
persons should have been entrusted by the proprietor with a responsible job 
of this nature requiring socrecy. He stated that the leaflets were printed in 
monotype but admitted that there was no mono-machine in the press. The 
proprietor of the press Radha Krishna Singh has been examined by the respon- 
dent No. 1 (R.W, 78). He has denied that P.W, 91 ever worked In his press in 
any capacity and also denied that a wages slip (Ex, 3) which was produced by 
P.W. 91 was issued from his press or contained his signature or that the rubber 
stamp on it was of his press. He has further denied that the leaflet. Ex. 2, had 
been printed in his press or that Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra had gone to 
his press for getting it printed. He has produced his register of piece-rate 
workers (Ex. F) which does not contain the name of P.W. 91. Satyapal Misra 
is the editor of a paper named ‘Karmi’ which is sometimes printed from this 
press. He has been examined by the respondent No. 1 (R.W. 7) and denied the 
incident. It has been argued that Ex. 2 being a defamatory document, no press- 
owner who might have printed it would be likely to admit its printing and thereby 
make himself liable for the statements contained therein and that no importance 
should therefore be attached to R.W. 78’s denial. But the onus is on the petitioner 
to prove that this leaflet was printed in this press at the instance of Banwari 
Bahu and certainly this onus cannot be said to have been discharged by the 
examination of a worthless witness like P.W. 91 who has been disowned by the 
proprietor of the press. It has been contended that his evidence has been 
corroborated in a way by the evidence of another press-owner of Dalsingsarai 
(P.W. 2fi) who has deposed that a fortnight before the election he had been 
summoned by Banwari Babu and requested to print this leaflet, which he refused 
to do on reading the manuscript as it contained abuse of the petitioner, and that 
Satyapal Misra who was there then said thBt. he would get it printed from 
Sarikar Press, Patna where his paper ‘Karmi’ was printed. This witness had 
admittedly been prosecuted by Satyapal Misra in a criminal case of defamation 
in respect, of a hand bill printed by him on behalf of the petitioner who was a 
co-accused in that case. The case was eventually compromised but it shows the 
close connection between the petitioner and this witness who has also admitted 
that he printed some election materials for the petitioner in 1962. Dalsingserai 
was the headquarters of the petitioner and, according to R.W. 9, this press was 
situated in a premises belonging to the petitioner himself. In these circumstances, 
it is not possible to believe that this press-owner of all persons would have been 
approached for the printing of a document like this directed against the 
petitioner. Banwari Babu and Satyapal Misra (R.W. 7) and the other persons 
said to have been present at the time, viz., Baleshwar Ram (R.W. 83). Makhan 
Surekha (R.W. 8 ) and .Tagdish Chaudhuri (R.W. 9) have all denied his story and 
I cannot accept it in the face of such denials and the circumstances mentioned. 
I find therefore that the petitioner has failed to establish that Banwari Babu 
got the leaflets printed at the Sankar Press, Patna. 

43. With regard to distribution of the leaflets also the principal part is said to 
have been played by Banwari Babu. Strangely enough, however, his name is 
nowhere mentioned in the election petition. All that Is stated there is that the 
congress party workers and agents of respondent No. 1 distributed the leaflets, 
Even the words ‘election agent’ do not occur there. This is stranger still 
because Hemanta Babu, the son and election agent of the petitioner, (P.W. 124). 
has given evidence that he had himself drafted the election petition and that he 
had come to know of the distribution of leaflets by Banwari Babu and secured 
a copy thereof on 22nd February, 1962. He showed it to his father and under his 
direction he drafted a petition complaining against such distribution and addressed 
It to the Returning Officer, Samastlpur. He took it to S-amastlpur on 23rd 
February, 1962, met the Sub-divisional Officer of Samastipur and presented the 



768 the gazette of india : February 27 1965/phalguna 8, 1886 [Part ii- 


petitlon to him through Shri S. S. P. Sinha, the Second Officer. A copy of the 
leaflet was enclosed with this petition. These two officers (PWs. 99 and 111) 
have corroborated this. This copy of the leaflet was forwarded by the Sub- 
divlslonal Officer, Samastipur, _ to the District Magistrate, Darbhanga who was the 
Returning Officer of this Parliamentary Constituency, with a report and the latter 
(PW. 98) has proved it. The petition of complaint has been marked Ex. 5 and 
the report which contains the copy of the leaflet is Ex. 1. The ail important fact 
that Banwnri Babu himself was distributing the leaflets is not, however, mentioned 
in the petition. Ex. 5. where the only statement is that these leaflets were being 
distributed to the public in general by the ‘men and agency of Sri Satya Narain 
Sinha'. If he had come to know on 22nd February 1982 that the leaflets were 
being distributed by Banwari Babu, it is very strange that Hemanta Babu should 
have omitted Banwari Babu’s name in the petition, since mention of his name 
would have directly connected the respondent No. 1 with Ihe distribution of 
the leaflets. The vague statement about distribution bv “men and agency” of 
respondent No, 1 is absolutely inexplicable in view of the case made at the 
trial. Even in his written statement filed on 28th August 1982 Hemanta Babu 
did not mention Banwari Babu as the distributor of the leaflets. In this statement 
it was alleged that he had approached the respondent No 1 personally and 
protested to him against the distribution of such leaflets but he did not refer 
to this fact in his evidence and no such suggestion was made to the respondent 
No. 1. The story of distribution by Banwari Babu himself was introduced for 
the first time in the amended petition filed on 16th October 1962 six months after 
the filing of the election petition. There Is therefore justification for the 
contention of the learned advocate for respondent No. 1 that it was an after 
thought and the motive for the introduction of such a case in the amendment 
has also been suggested. It is pointed that the difference in votes between the 
petitioner and respondent No. 1 is 37, 111 and that, that being so, It would be 
an impossible task for the petitioner to establish that the result of the election 
had been materially affected by the distribution of these leaflets. His only hope 
of success lay therefore in attempting to prove that this corrupt practice had been 
committed by respondent No. l’s election agent himself and thereby bring the 
case within the purview'- of Sec. 100 (1) (b) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951. This is an important consideration to be borne in mind in judging the 
evidence adduced on this part of the case. 

44. That evidence has also certain very peculiar and rather unusual features. 
According to amended annexure B, Banwari Babu distributed the leaflets from a 
jeep lI } seven villages on 17t.h February 1962, in Samastipur town on 21st February 
1982, in three more villages on 22nd February 1962, In five other villages on 24th 
February 1962 and finally in three villages on 25th February 1962. Evidence has 
been given regarding distribution by him in eight villages only and in Samastipur 
town. The first peculiar thing to note is the method of distribution. The general 
evidence of the witnesses is that he came to the villages by a jeep, stopped on the 
road-side, distributed the leaflets to the persons he found there, whose number, 
according to the witnesses, never exceeded 10 or 15 at a place and who were gen- 
erally attracted to the road-side by the sound of the arrival of the jeep, and then 
left. He did not stop at any place for more than 5 or 10 minutes. He never asked 
the people he met to support the congress or his father. In fact it is not stated by 
any witness that he made any propaganda or addressed any word to them. He was 
a silent distributor who was anxious to finish his job as quickly as possible and then 
to move on. The distribution was not even made systematically In village after 
village on the route covered by the jeep. The evidence rather suggests that he 
visited one village and then another several miles apart skipping over the inter- 
mediate villages. The second peculiar thing is that the distribution was made 
either on the day of polling or on the day ’before. Even in Samastipur town which 
was Ihe headquarters of the respondent No. 1 who had an election office there the 
leaflets were distributed on the polling day, viz., 21st February 1962, The printed 
leaflets -were ready, according to the petitioner’s case, on or before 17th February 
1962 and no reason has been suggested why the distribution of the leaflets in 
Samastipur should have been put off till the morning of the polling day after the 
commencement of the poll. In certain other villages also distribution was made on 
the polling flay, viz,, 25th February 1962. There are witnesses who have said that 
they received the leaflets after they had cast their votes. It is not that Banwari 
Babu. as election agent, wanted to visit the polling booths on the day of polling to 
ascertain or enquire how it was going on. The evidence does not suggest that he 
did visit any of the polling booths or make any enquiries about the polling. 
Banwari Babu was in charge of the election affairs of his father at Samastipur and 
it is strange that he should have moved about and travelled long distance by jeeps 
on the polling day or on the day before polling simply to distribute these leaflets 
to stray road-side villagers. He has said that he never moved out of the election 



Vc. 3 (ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 1EBRUARY 27, 19G5/PHALGUNA 8, 1B8G 769 


office or the town of Samastlpur where he was very busy and it has been corro- 
borated by several witnesses of respondent No, I, viz., RWs. 5, 10, 12, 24 & 25 who 
saw him in election office on the alleged dates of distribution. The congress had 
workers in nearly all the villages, but it has been argued that it was not considered 
safe to entrust the distribution to them or that in view of the nature of the leaflet 
they might not have agreed to undertake the task. It is worthy of note, however, 
that no special animosity against the petitioner has been suggested as the reason 
tor the propagation of these leaflets by Banwari Babu personalty. It would rather 
he more natural to presume that hi view of the nature of the leaflet he would have 
considered it safer and more proper not to Implicate himself in the matter of its 
distribution. If the distribution of the leaflets was Intended to influence the voters 
at the last moment or if it was thought that the distribution by Banwari Babu 
himself would have swayed the voters more than distribution by ordinary workers, 
the evidence shows that the move failed altogether. With one or two exceptions 
every witness has said that he read his copy of the leaflet and then destroyed it 
because it was a filthy document. Nobody has suggested that he believed the allega- 
tions in the leaflet or was in any way influenced thereby against the petitioner. AU 
these considerations tend to show that the story of distribution given by the wit- 
nesses is neither natural nor probable. 

45. So far as the witnessess are concerned, though the petitioner has examined 
a large number of witnesses to prove distribution of the leaflets, an equally large 
number of witnesses for respondent No. 1 has denied it. Evidence has been given 
that the first distribution was made by Banwari Babu on 17lh February 1902 in the 
villages of Sankmohan, Bibhutpur, Mustafapur and Kalyanpur. PW. 12 Is, how- 
ever, the only witness from Sankmohan and PW, 82 from Bibhutpur. Besides 
Banwari Babu HWs. 53, 55 & 56 from Sankmohan and RWs. 15, 16 & 54 from 
Bibhutpur have denied such distribution. In the face of such overwhelming denial 
the solitary evidence of PWs. 72 & 82 cannot be believed. Regarding distribution 
at Mustafapur there are four witnesses two of whom, viz., PW, 20 and PW. 36, 
however, do not belong to the village. PW. 20 lives 8 or 9 miles oil but says that 
he had come to this village on that day for couvasslng on behalf of the Praja 
Socialist Parly candidate. He was a worker of that party and polling agent of 
respondent No. 2. Similarly PW. 36 who lives 6 miles off had been there to canvass 
for the Swat antra Party candidates. Both must therefore be taken to be chance 
and interested witnesses. PWs, 70 and 71 are no doubt residents of Mustafapur. 
But there is a suggestion against them that they worked for the petitioner during 
the election. 1 cannot consider their evidence as sufficient and reliable, This dis- 
tribution has been denied by RW. 89 besides Banwari Babu. The last place about 
which evidence has been given of distribution on 17th February 1962 10.00 a.m. is 
Kalyanpur which is 3 miles ofT from Mustafapur (RW. 89). The witnesses are 
PWs. 69, 73, 86, 89, 90 aud 109. Four of them excluding PWs. 89 and 109 were 
Swatantra Party workers during election, according to K’W, 20. I have already 
criticised the evidence of PW. 69 in connection with, the allegation of bribing of 
Hariian voters. Besides, according to him, Banwari Babu had been to his house 
on the same day in the evening to pay money for distribution amongst Harijan 
voters and Kalyanpur being 14 miles off from Samastlpur (PW. 73) to suggest that 
Banwari Babu had been to the village once at 10 a.m. and again in the evening 
or at night is something improbable. PW. 73 has admitted that he was the polling 
ugent of the petitioner and is therefore obviously interested. PW. 80 said that he 
had connection with Banwari Babu as he had worked lor the Congress during 
election, but in that case there was no reason why a copy of the leaflet should have 
been given to him. He was Upamukhia of the Grampanchayat and said that he 
had complained about the leaflet to his Mukhiya at the Grainpanchayel Office, but 
the Mukhiya (PW. 109) said that he also received a copy of the leaflet at the same 
time as PW. R6. They were together but PW. 86 did not say so and on the other 
hand his statement suggests that the Mukhiya was not present during distribution. 
PW. 109 made an absurd statement that he hBd handed over his leaflet to a Police 
Constable as he considered it objectionable. PW. 89 spoke about having received a 
leaflet like Ex. 2 printed on red paper, but Ex-2 Is printed on white paper and there 
Is no evidence that any copies were printed on red paper. He was not named by 
the Mukhiya PW. 109 as having been present at the distribution of ihe leaflets. 
PW. 90 has been so named but his evidence is that he had reported about the 
leaflet to the Mukhiya which suggests that the Mukhiya was not present at the 
distribution. This distribution has been denied by besides Banwari Babu as manv 
as four witnesses Cor the respondent No. 1, Nos. 20, 21, 22 and 23. In the face of 
such denials and in view of the contradictory nature of the evidence and the gen- 
eral considerations discussed above I am not able to accept and rely upon it. This 
exhausts all the evidence regarding distribution on 17th February 1962, 

46. Evidence has next been given regarding distribution on 21st February 1962 
at Samastipur town and four witnesses have been examined on the point, viz., 



770 


THE GAZETTE OE INDEA : FEBRUARY 27 19G5/PHALGUNA 8, 1880 [Part II- 


PWs. 44, 45, 48 and 47. Curiously enough, none of them belongs to Samastipur. 
PW. 44 belongs to Dalsingsarai P.S., 15 or 16 miles off and was a j/oter there, He 
says that he was manager of a firm at Samastipur but this has-been denied by 
RW. 14 who is the proprietor of a store situated close to that firm. RW. 14 has 
further said that the proprietor of that firm is a teacher in the petitioner’s school 
at Dalsingsarai and hence under his influence. PW. 45 lives 6 miles off from 
Samastipur. He had been there to purchase cloth on that day. PW. 46 also lives 
6 miles off from Samastipur and had been there to purchase medicine. Both of 
them say that they had reported the distribution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu 
to Hemanta Babu on the day of counting of votes at Samastipur, but this was not 
corroborated by Hemanta Babu. PW. 47 had been to Samastipur to see, as he said, 
the ‘tamasha’ of voting, He spoke of distribution at 11 a.m. which on a polling day 
is most improbable. He also reported this matter to Hemanta Babu 4 or 5 days 
after the polling, but this has not been corroborated. It is strange that the peti- 
tioner could not And any voter or witness from Samastipur to prove this distribu- 
tion which has been denied by as many as seven witnesses besides Banwari Babu, 
viz,, RWs. 14, 39, 41, 66, 67, 71 and 72, some of whom are very respectable being 
businessmen, Advocates, Municipal Chairman and Vice-Chairman. In view of the 
nature of the petitioner’s witnesses and this overwhelming evidence of denial 
coupled with the improbability of delayed distribution till 11 a.m. on the polling 
day already remarked upon I cannot place any reliance on them. 


47. With regard to distribution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu on 22nd Febru- 
ary 1962', evidence has been given that he distributed them on that date at two 
villages, viz., Khalishpur and Udapatti. Two witnesses, viz., PW. 49 and PW. 53, 
have deposed to distribution at Udapatti in the evening of that date which was the 
day before polling. Neither PW. 49 nor PW. 53 is a resident of Udapatti proper. 
PW 49 named certain persons who also got copies of the leaflets along with him 
but he did not name PW. 53. According to RW. 33 who is Vice-Principal of a 
college and was a Swatantra Party candidate for election to the Assembly in 1962, 
both these witnesses worked for the Swatantra Party during that election. They 
are therefore obviously Interested witnesses. PW. 49 has said that he took his copy 
of the leaflet to the Mukhiya of the village Anirudh Babu and then handed it over 
to Hemanta Babu. The latter has said that this was the first copy of the leaflet he 
received at the house of the Mukhiya which he filed with his petition, Ex. 5, on the 
next day. The witness is not, however, named in Ex. 5, nor his village mentioned. 
Hemanta Babu’s evidence is that he had been out on tour on that day and had 
visited the villages of Khalishpur and Udapatti, but RW. 13, an Advocate and a 
member of the Swatantra Party, and RW. 39, the Sercetary of a Thana Swatantra 
Party and a candidate for election to an Assembly seat from that Party, have said 
that they accompanied Hemanta Babu In this tour and that on account of the 
breakdown of the jeep in which they were travelling at Kalyanpur they could not 
eo to these villages at all but returned by rickshaws to Sanstipur. This evidence 
renders improbable the story given by Hemanta Babu. Other witnesses like RWs 
33 and 62 have also denied Hemanta Babu’s visit to these villages. Distribution of 
leaflets at Udapatti has been denied by respondent’s witnesses Nos 29, 30 & .>3 
besides Banwari Babu. I am therefore unable to rely upon this evidence of distri- 
bution As to distribution at Khalishpur six witnesses have been exammeu, viz., 
PWs 48 50 51 52 54 and 55. PW. 48 has said that distribution was made by Ban- 
wari' Babu at About 2,0 p.m. He has also said that in the same afternoon he had 
informed Hemanta Babu about the leaflet in detail but Hemanta Babu did not 
name him as an Informant. PWs. 52 and 55 have been named by Hemanta Babu 
and they have said that they reported the distribution to him. But if Hemanta 
Babu did not visit Khalishpur at all that day, as the respondent No 1 s witnesses 
prove all this evidence is worthless. According to RWs 62, all these witnesses work- 
ed for the Swatantra Party during election, The distribution at Khalishpur has been 
denied by RWs. 33, 62, 63 and 64 besides Banwari Babu The evidence regarding 
this distribution may be voluminous but it is of little worth and I cannot place any 
reliance upon it. Finally on 25th February, 1962, also a polling day, Banwari Babu 
Is said to have distributed the leaflets in two villages, viz., Gohi and Brahgama, 
From Gohi only one witness, P.W. 56, has come .and from Brahgama two R Ws. 58 
and 59. The solitary evidence of PW. 56 cannot be accepted as against denial by 
Banwari Babu and another witness, RW. 40, according to whom PW, 50 worked for 
the Swatantra Party during the election. PWs. 58 and 59 are certainly interested 
in that Party being relations of a candidate for election to toe Assembly from t a 
Party Besides Banwari Babu three more witnesses from Brahgama, HWa 68, 69 
and 70 have denied such distribution. I cannot therefore accept this evidence of 
distribution. The result therefore is that the petitioner has failed to prove distri- 
bution of the leaflets by Banwari Babu in any of the villages alleged. 


48 The next person who has been made responsible by the petitioner for dis- 
tribution of these leaflets in as many as nine villages is Sri Baleewer Ram, a 



Sec. J(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PIIALGUNA 8, 1886 


77 1 


State Minister of the Government of Bihar, who at the time of election was a 
Parliamentary Secretary. He stood for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly 
from Dalsingsarai West Constituency, the polling for which took place on 21st 
February, 1962. He is said to have distributed the leaflets at Mirzapur, Simri 
Sahit or Baiitpur, Nagargawa and Garsisai on 19th February, 1962, at Gospur and 
Rampur Jaialpur on 20th February, 1962, and at Asinchawk and Pagra on 21st 
February, 1962. All these villages are within his constituency. The same impro- 
babilities as in the case of Banwari Babu and even more attach to the evidence of 
distribution by him. The method of distribution is the same, the evidence being 
that he visited these villages by a jeep, stopped on the village road, distributed the 
leaflets to ten, fifteen or twenty persons found there and then left. It is not staled 
that he said anything or made any propaganda with regard to his own election 
or even asked the people he met to vote for the Congress candidate. He did not 
even visit the polling booths on the day of polling and is said to have distributed 
the leaflets long after the polling had commenced. Thus P.W. 21 has said that 
he received the leaflet from him at noon while he had cast his vote at 7-30 a-M. 
A candidate for election should be expected to be busy about his own election on 
the polling day and the days immediately preceding and it is impossible to believe 
that he would have travelled long distances even up to 14 miles from his residence 
for distribution of a leaflet which did not concern his election at all and was un- 
likely to do any good to the Congress cause. It is still more impossible to believe 
this of a responsible person who was holding the office of Parliamentary Secretary 
at the time. It is not alleged that he had any special grudge or animosity ugainst 
the petitioner on account of which he took this unusual course of distributing 
leaflets attacking the latter's personal character at the risk of his own reputation. 
The only suggestion is that he boro a grudge against the Swatantra Party because 
one Ram Padarath Mahto, a candidate for election from that party in 1962. had 
in 1957 filed an election petition against him. But that petition was ultimately 
dismissed in appeal as against him and in 1957 Swatantra Party was not in exis- 
tence. The witnesses regarding such distribution are generally one or two from 
each village— in all 18, viz., PWs. No. 15. 16. 17, 19, 20, 21. 28, 35, 37, 38, 39, 76, 80, 
81, 88, 96, 97 and 107, They are stereotyped witnesses of the same kind and I am not 
impressed by them. I do not therefore propose to discuss their evidence in detail- 
Sri Baleswar Ram himself (RW- 83) and a large number of witnesses, viz., RWs. 36 
37, 38, 45, 46, 57, 77, 79, 81 and 82 have denied such distribution and in the face of 
such denial and the improbabilities already remarked upon I am unable to accept 
this evidence. It is also not proved that Sri Baleswar Ram was in any way an 
agent of the respondent No. 1 authorised by him or his election agent to make 
such distribution. 


49. Another person who is said to have distributed the leaflets in three villages, 
viz., Maniarpur, Ghato-Bhairopatty and Chandchar, on 2lst February, 1962, and 
22nd February, 1962, is Sitaram Pankaj (RW, 65). He is not a local person but 
belongs to Monghyr district and since 1961 he has been staying at Goorgaon in 
East Punjab and doing business there. He has admitted, however, that during 
January and February 1962 he was at Samastipur doing election work on behalf 
of the Congress in the neighbouring villages and that he was the polling agent of 
respondent No. 1 at Udapatti. The above named villages are in Dalsingsarai West 
Assembly constituency but he said that his election activities were confined to 
Samastipur West Constituency and that he had i}o occasion to go to the other 
Constituency. According to the petitioner’s case, he was in-charge of the 
election office of respondent No. 1 at Dalsingsarai, but he has denied it. 
In any case, he was not a man who knew or was known in the locality 
and it does not seem probable that he would have been entrusted with 
the work of distribution of these leaflets. He has denied that he distributed 
■any such leaflet anywhere. P.W. 22 the first witness who speaks of distribution by 
him at Maniarpur did not know him at all. He only heard people saying that the 
distributor was Sitaram Pankaj. PW. 25 another witness from Maniarpur was the 
polling agent of a P.S.P. candidate for the Assembly in the village polling booth 
and it being the polling day it does not appear how he would have been on the 
road to receive the leaflet. He admitted that he had been present at the polling 
booth when the boxes were sealed, that inoming but ( said that thereafter he left 
for home neglecting his duties as polling agent. This is difficult to believe There 
is only one witness from Ghato-Bhairopatty and he is P.W. 34, a Mukhiya. He also 
did not know Sitaram Pankaj before the election. He said that Sitaram Pankaj 
gave him 25 leaflets for distribution but he did not distribute them. None of these 
has been nroduced and it has not been stated what happened to them. He had met 
a son of the petitioner a few days later but he did not hand over any of the leaflets 
to him. He did not even read the leaflet. This distribution has been denied by 
three witnesses, viz., RWs, 73, 75 and 76. About distribution at Chandchar 
five witnesses have been examined, viz., PWs. 60, 61. 82. 63 «nd 74. Their evidence 
Is of the same stereotyped kind and four of them said that they had reported about 
distribution of these leaflets to Hemanta Babu a few days later, but this has not 



77 2 TflK GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, I88G [Part II— 


thf' + C i? rr0b0l ' at J e '? b Y the latter. RWs. 49 and 58, one of whom is a teacher and 

re ? isterecl have denied this distribution. According to RW 58 

Tr, /i?*f Wltn * sscs t “ e Petitioner had worked for him during the election. 
In these circumstances I cannot accept their evidence as also the evidence of the 
other witnesses and find that these leaflets were distributed by Situ Ram Ranks j. 

not P ro Pose to discuss in detail the evidence of distribution by certain 
® atya R !l1 Misra (RW. 7) who is said to have distributed the 
leaflets at Dalsingsarai on the morning of the polling dav 21st February ]9G° 
Ramakanta Misra (RW. 11) who is said to have distributed' the leaflets at if'alyan- 
pur and Birsmgpur on 22nd February, 1962. Jagdish Cliowdhuri (RW 9) and 
Sa i d n t0 h 5 Ve distributed them at. Keota on the polling day 21st 
February, 1962 and Damodar Chowdhuu (R.W. 61 ) and Makhan Lai Surckha (RW. 
j. w „ arc j- have distributed them at Dalsingsarai also on the same polling 
day. Regarding such distribution one or two witnesses from each place, excepting 
that there are four from Kalyanpur, have been examined by the petitioner. They 
arc PWs. 40, 41, 42, 43, 64, 65, 63, 75 and 95, The alleged distributors have all 
denied it and certain other witnesses for respondent No. 1 like RWs. 28, 50, 51, 52. 
74, 85 and 86— two of them from Kalyanpui* have denied it too. The’ method of 
distribution is the same and it is not alleged that any of these persons spoke any- 
thing or indulged In any canvassing. Many of the petitioner’s witnesses had been 
workers of the Swatantra Party during the election and. according to RW. 51, all 
the witnesses from Kalyanuur were such workers. Apart from all that, it has' not 
been proved that these persons were agents of the respondent No. 1 and had been 
authorised by him or his election agent to distribute the leaflets or did so with 
their consent. Satyapal Misra admitted that he had worked for the Congress 
during the election but that is not sufficient. Makhanlal Surekha was not a Con- 
gress worker and denied that he had worked for the respondent. No. 1 during 
election. Jagdish Chowdhuri was Joint Secretary of Dalsingsarai Tbana Congress 
Committee, but that also is not evidence of his, agency. Damodar Chowdhuri has 
denied that he had worked for the respondent No. 1 during the election. He was 
a polling agent for Shri Baleswar Ram, but that is another matter. Ramakanta 
Misra of course admitted that he had worked for respondent No. i’s election and 
was his polling and counting agent, but that is no proof that he was authorised 
to distribute these leaflets or did so with his consent. Two witnesses for the 
petitioner spoke of distribution of these leaflets by one Goswami. but his full name 
was not given, and so the learned Advocate for the petitioner did not press rhis 
part of his case. The result is that, in my opinion, the petitioner has failed to 
establish his case regarding this point and T find that no corrupt practice under 
sub-section (4) of Section 123 of the R.P, Act, 1951 was committed. 


51. The next item of corrupt practice alleged is the hiring or procuring of 
bullock carts and rickshaws by the respondent No. 1 or his agents for the 
conveyance of voters to or from polling stations under sub. sec. (5) of section 123. 
With regard to hiring of bullock carts no names were mentioned in annexure D 
to the election petition. In oaragranh 15 of the petition certain names were 
mentioned and it was alleged that they had hired rickshaws on hehalf of 
respondent No. 1 for conveyance of voters to certain polling booths. It was not 
stated, however, from whom the rickshaws were hired. In the petition for 
amendment certain names of bullock cart-owners and hirers were mentioned in 
annexure D but the names of the rickshaw owners were not disclosed, Evidence 
has been given that the bullock-carts of PW. 6 Thaman Rai and PW. 9 Laxman 
Rai who are two of the cart-owners named in amended annexure D, were hired 
at Keota by one Kapildeo Choudhury on the polling day for carrying voters. It 
has not been proved, however, that Kapildeo was an agent of respondent No. 1. 
Nor has anv evidence been given as to which voters were carried in these bullock 
carts "'ItWs. 74 and 86 of Keota have given evidence that PWs. 6 and 9 are 
tenants of the petitioner and that they had no carts at the time of election. They 
have alati denied that any voters were conveyed to the polling booth in Bullock- 
carts PW C produced a licence for a cart but it. was not for the year 1962. He 
admitted that he had no personal knowledge that Kapildeo was a worker of 
the respondent No. 1. PW. 9 did not produce any licence for his cart. Those 
are worthless witnesses and cannot be believed— the more so because of the fact 
that noi a single name out of the voters said to have been carried in their carls 
has beta disclosed. There is also no proof that Kapildeo was an agent 
respond 1 n t No. 1. With regard to rickshaws, evidence has been given bv PW, 7 
and PW. 8 of Dalsingsarai that their rickshaws were hired by Deviprasad 
Agarwalla Satvanal Nfisra and Makhan Surekha on the polling day for the 
conveyance of voters. These persons who are RWs. 7, 8 and 84 have denied the. 
story 'and have also denied that they were agents or workers of respondent No. I. 
According to RW. 7, PW 8 is a cloth merchant and does not own any rickshaw 
and his shop is situated in the premises of the petitioner, PW 8 admitted that 



»ec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


773 


he held no licence for his rickshaw. PW. 14 deposed that he was a rickshaw- 
driver of PW. 8 and carried voters under his direction, taut PW. 8 did not name 
him at all. No names of voters said to have been carried in these rickshaws have 
been disclosed. Considering all these facts I am unable to accept this evidence 
and hold that the commission of this corrupt practice has been proved. 

52. The last item of corrupt practice alleged is under sub. sec. (6) of sec, 123 
regarding incurring or authorising of expenditure in contravention of see. 77 
of the H P. Act, Sec. 77 provides that — (1) every candidate at an election shall, 
either by himself or by his election agent, keep a separate and correct account 
of all expenditure in connection with tne election incurred or authorised by him 
or by his election agent between the date of publication of the notification calling 
the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates inclusive; 
(2) the account shall contain such particulars, as may be prescribed; and (3) the 
total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed. 
Rule 90 of the conduct of Election Rules 1961 provides that for election in a 
Parliamentary constituency in any State the total of the expenditure under sec. 
77 should not exceed Rs. 25,000/-. The account of election expenses lodged by 
the respondent No. 1 wllh the Returning Officer under Sec. 70 of the R.P. Act on 
2Gth March 19G3 shows that he spent a total sum of Rs. 12,102 '30 nP. (Ex. 7). 
Certain vouchers were also enclosed with the account. One of the items of expenses 
represented purchase of petrol spread over the months of January and February, 
1962 and the total expenditure under this item was Rs. 7,556‘57 nP. covered by 
two vouchers dated 2nd February 1962 and 24th March 1S62 for Rs. 1,843'47 nP, 
and Rs. 5,713.50 nP. respectively obtained from H. P. Ghose & Sons, Petrol 
Dealers, Samastipur. The petitioner's case is that the amount spent on petrol 
was much more and that two payments of Rs. 6,000/- dated 29th January 1962 
and Rs, 8,000/- dated 2nd February 1962 made to the said petrol dealers had 
not been included in the account. It is said that two cheques for the said 
amounts bearing the respective dates were drawn by Shri P, P. Singh, election 
agent of respondent No. 1, on the Central Bank of India, Samastipur Branch, 
in favour of Ramakanta Misra who made the payments, after cashing the cheques, 
to R, P. Ghosh, proprietor of H. P. Ghose & Sons, As already stated, no parti- 
culars regarding this charge of corrupt practice had been mentioned in the 
election petition and these items were for the first time disclosed in a new 
annexure F introduced by the amendment. The two cheques fExs. 8 and 8(a)] 
have been produced by the Central Bank, Samastipur Branch, and these as also 
the extracts from the Ledger produced by the Bank show that the amounts of 
these cheques were paid to Ramakanta Misra in whose favour they were drawn 
on the respective dates, The petitioner has examined one witness PW. 105 
Mahendra Narayan Chowdhuri who has stated that he had been to the Bank on 
these two dates, viz., 29th January 1962 and 2nd February 1962, to cash two 
cheques of Rs. 200/- each bearing the same dates and drawn in his favour by 
the petitioner and that while he was in the bank waiting to cash his cheques 
he saw Ramakant. Misra cash the two cheques of Rs. 6,000/- and Rs. 8,000/- on 
the respective dates and pay the amounts then and there to R. P. Ghose. These 
two cheques of Rs. 200/- each have been produced by the bank fExs. 10 and 
10(a)] and the copies of the Ledger show that they were cashed by Mahendra 
Narayan Chowdhuri. P, P. Singh alias Banwari Babu has admitted the two 
cheques of Rs. 6,000/- and R$. 8,000/- but denied that these cheques were drawn 
for payment to R. P. Ghose for petrol. According to him, Ramakanta brought 
the amounts of the cheques and paid the same to him, Ramakanta Misra who 
is RW. 11 has admitted the cashing of these cheques and said that he made over 
the amounts to Banwari Babu at his residence. He denied having paid these 
sums to R, P. Ghose. R. P. Ghose is dead and so could not be examined lw the 
either party. But the petitioner summoned II. P. Ghose & Sons and called for 
their account books and in obedience to this summons an employee of the firm 
came to court with the account books on 29th May 1964. The learned Advocate 
for the petitioner, however, declined to examine him. The fact that the account 
books, though produced, were not utilised by the petitioner will give rise to a 
presumption that they would not have supported his case. On 2nd February 
1902 this firm had received a payment of Rs. 1,843:47 nP. from Shri P. P. Singh, 
according to the voucher enclosed with the account of election expenses, and 
this payment was in full satisfaction of a bill submitted by the firm on 1st 
February 1962, If the firm had actually received a payment of Rs. 8.000/- on 
2nd February 1902 it is not clear why it would not have issued a voucher foi 
that amount' The representative of the firm was called with its account books 
but he was not examined and questioned on this point. The sum of Rs. 1,843'47 
nP. was paid in cash, as recited in the voucher, and it is not possible to conceive 
that two cash payments were made on the same date to the same firm on the 
same account. It would be more reasonable to presume on the other hand that 
the sum of Rs. 1,843 47 nP. was paid out of the proceeds of the cheque for Rs, 
1,000/-. Since the voucher recites that the payment of Rs. 1,843:47 nP. was in 



THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


full satisfaction of a bill dated 1st February 1962, it is also reasonable to presume 
that this bill covered petrol supplied during the previous month and it is not 
possible to believe that a sum of Rs. 6.000/- would have been due to the firm 
on 29th January 1962, apart from this bill. If a payment of Rs. 6,000/- had been 
made on that date, on such bill could have been submitted only three days later. 
It has been suggested that this method of payment was adopted because the 
payment were intended to be kept secret and not to be included in the account 
of election expenses. But the second voucher dated 24th March 1962 shows that 
the sum of Rs. 5,713:50 nP. was also paid in cash and, in any case, such suggestion 
renders the story given by PW. 105 quite improbable. A payment intended to 
be kept secret would have been made either m the house of P. P. Singh or in 
that of R. P. Ghose and not in a public place like a bank in the presence of 
outsiders to whom the proprietor of the firm must be well-known. PW. 105 
was admittedly a canvasser for the petitioner during the election and had been 
staying at Samastipur which is 16 miles off from his home for this purpose. He 
is thus neither an independent nor a disinterested witness entitled to more credit 
than Banwari Babu and Ramakanta Misra and the circumstances discussed above 
also militate against his story. I cannot therefore believe it. I find therefore that 
these items oi expenditure have not been proved. 

53. The next item of election expenses alleged to have been excluded from the 
account is the cost of maintaining election offices in certain villages enumerated 
in item (j ) of the amended annexure F including food charges of the workers 
estimated at Rs. .10,000/- and their travelling allowances at the rate of Rs. 5/- 
per day per head — estimated at Rs. 75,000/-. Eight witnesses have been examined 
to show that allowances at this rate were paid to the respondent no. l’s workers. 
They are PWs. 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 110. 112 and 116. PW, 101 says that the 
respondent No. 1 had an election office at village Sahit of which Tripit Singh was 
in-charge and that In that office 50 workers were maintained for three weeks and 
given allowances at this rate. None of the workers was. however, named bv him. 
He did not keep any note of the payments and it is not clear from his statement 
that he actually saw any payment. RW 59 Tripit Singh has denied his story and 
two other witnesses from Sahit— RWs. 36 and 38 — have also denied that the res- 
pondent no. I had any election office at Sahit to which workers were attached. 
His solitary evidence cannot be believed in the face of such denials. The same 
Is the case with PW. 104 who has said that there was another election office at 
Ujairpur In charge of Ram Udgar where 40 workers were maintained for three 
weeks and paid Rs. 5/- each per day. He does not belong to the village but lives 
five miles off. He also could not name any worker and admitted that he did not 
see any payment to any worker. Fie was a worker of the petitioner during the 
election. RWs. 47 and 48 from Ujairpur have denied that there was any election 
office there or that any allowance was paid to workers. I cannot therefore accept 
his evidence. PW. 102 gave evidence that there was an election office of the res- 
pondent No. 1 at Deo Narain Shah's gaddi at Dalsingsarai where 70 or 80 workers 
were employed for five weeks and paid @ Rs. 5/- per head per day and that Sila- 
ram Pankaj was in charge of the office. This was corroborated by PWs. 103, I ’ 
110 , 112 and 116. None of them, however, named any worker or proved any p - 
ment to any particular worker on any particular date or could give any idea of 
the total amount paid to the workers. It is not even clear that any of them actually 
saw any payment. Their evidence Is altogether vague and indefinite and cannot 
therefore be relied upon. Both Deo Narain Shah (RW 60) and Sltaram Pankaj 
(RW. 65) have denied that any election office was maintained at Dalsingsarai or 
that anv payment was made to the workers and Banwari Babu has also denied 
it. According to the respondent No. l’s witnesses, the workers all rendered hono- 
rary service. It may be that sometimes the workers were fed and RW. 10 has 
stated that the workers attached to the Samastipur election office used to get their 
food from the office. But there were only 25 or 30 workers attached to this office 
and the petitioner's witnesses have not indicated that there were more. In fact 
the petitioner has given no evidence about this office at all. Even if no account 
was kept of the expenses Incurred for feeding these workers and the amount was 
not disclosed In the account of election expenses, that would not constitute corrupt 
practice without proof that the amount prescribed under Rule 90 had been exceeded 
thereby, The High Court of Patna has held in the case of Chandra Sekhar Singh 
Vs. Sarjoo Prasad Singh, reported In A.I.R. 1901 Patna 189, that only if a candi- 
date's election expenditure exceeds the maximum amount in violation of sub-sec. 
(3) of sec. 77, he will be guilty of having resorted to a corrupt practice and that 
mere omission of certain items in the account of expenditure is not a corrupt 
practice, even though it could be shown that the omission was intentional. Thus 
In order to establish the commission of a corrupt practice under sub-sec. (6) of 
Sec. 123 It will not be sufficient to prove that certain items of expenses incurred 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUA RY 27, (965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 7-75 


in connection with the election had not been included in the account of election 
expenses; it will also have to be proved that the total of these Items of expenses, 
when added to the amount shown in the said account, will exceed the maximum. 
Such proof is lacking in this case. The cost of feeding 25 or 30 workers for a 
month or so in this election office could not have been much as the total amount 
of food charges at all the election offices numbering nine has been estimated in 
annexure P at Rs, 10,000/-. But the existence of no other election office with 
workers attached has been proved and even the addition of Rs. 10,000/- to the 
amount shown in the account of election expenses would not exceed the maximum. 
I find accordingly that no corrupt practice under sub-sec. (8) of Sec, 123 has been 
committed in respect of this item. 


54. Finally it was alleged that certain telephone bills had not been included in 
the account of election expenses. In this connection a bill was called from the 
telephone authorities which related to Trunk calls from telephone no, 98 Samasti- 
pur standing in the name of 'Hon’ble Minister, Parliamentary Affairs, New Delhi’ 
and amounted to Rs. 972/- (Ex. 12). In the account of election expenses a sum 
of Rs. 300/- has been included as representing the probable trunk call charges, 
the bin therefor not having been received. PW. 122, the head clerk of the Accounts 
Department of Telephone Revenue, Patna who produced this bill stated that the 
P r PP l [ ni had not been realised. It is quite possible that this bill which is dated 
19th March 1962 had not been received before the lodging of the account of election 
expenses on 26th March 1962. Banwari Babu has admitted that this telephone 
was installed at the election office at Samastipur and was used for election pur- 
poses and said that as no bill was received an approximate amount was mentioned 
in the account of election expenses. The omission of the amount of this bill in 
the said account was not therefore intentional and is easily explained. Reference 
has been made to another telephone at the house of Thakur Prasad Sarma where 
the respondent no. 1 had been staying at the time of election. This was telephone 

thn’f tnlfSf in t5 i e ? amG Pj- Thakur Prasad. It has not been proved, however, 
that trunk calls made from this telephone were for the purposes of the election 

this Telcnl^frA 11 > h f )t n ° doubt s aid thfl t his father used to make trunk calls from 
this telephone but it cannot be presumed therefrom that all such trunk calls were 
election purposes. The respondent no. 1, as a Minister of the Central Gov- 
t yin 5 aw «y from the capital at that time, must be presumed to have 
nfen oc .£ asi ° ns several trunk calls for official business and other purposes 

The tr^nk that he hlm p el{ f ; nade any trunk call for election propaganda, 

rami^v ^a n in respGGt of thls telephone amounted to Rs. 360’20 nP„ in 

January and Rs. 976.65 np. m Feb. 1962, according to Exs. 13 and 1.3(a) extracts 

a s um of r| S 390 r 1 C rf 1 “hs produced by PW. 122 which also show that 

Fx a P i. due fo f, trunk calls fr °m telephone no, 98 In Jan 1962 

“■ l 3( f b > Eve , n l ! il be assumed that all these trunk calls were for election purl 
poses, the total of these amounts together with Rs, 972/- added to the -110011111 
thu W r in the aCc ' 0U ut of election expenses, would not exceed the maximum and 
theiefore, on the authority of the decision of Patna High Court referred tn -lbnve 

sts azsssszst tar 


Hence Ordered 


That the election petition be dismissed with costs which In view of * 

ed hearing are assessed at Rs. 2,000/- to be paid by the petitioner taX'SKl 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


dent no. 1. In view of the order passed in para 11 of the judgment the petitioner 
should also pay the costs of respondent no. 5 which I assess at Rs. 50/-. 


Typed to my dictation and corrected by me, 
(Sd.) P K. Sarkar. 


(Sd.) P. K, Sarkar, 

11-1-65 

Member, 

Election Tribunal, Patna, 


[No. 82/294/62,] 
By Order, 

PRAKASH WAR'AIN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 16 th February 1965 

S.O, 657.— -In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 29.0 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that all contracts a,nd other instru- 
ments required to be made in the exercise of the executive power of the Union, 
in connection with the purchase of animals from non-offleial suppliers in Italy and 
France, for the Indian Army during the period February, 1965 to June, 1965, shall 
be executed on his behalf by the First Secretary (Commercial), Embassy of India, 
Rome and Paris respectively. 

[No. F, 17 (1) /65-J.] 
G. K. PURANIK, Dy. Legal Adviser. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 17 th February 1905 

S.O, 658. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Punjab Co-operative Bank Ltd., Jullundur 
City, in respect of the properties (comprising three houses and two shops) held 
by it at Rupar, District Anibala, Punjab, til] the 3rd January, 1966. 

[No. F. 15(l)-BC/64.] 
B. J. HEERJEE, Under Sccy. 



(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 18 th February 1965 


s.a S59 . — Statement of the Affairs of the Resale Bank of India Banking Department as on the 12th February, 1 965. 


LIABILITIES 

Rs. 

ASSETS 

Rs. 

Capital Paid up ..... 

5 ,oo 3 oo j 000 

Notes ........ 

7,70,37,000 



Rupee Coin ........ 

4,88,000 

Reserve Fund ..... 

80,00,00,000 

Small Coin ........ 

11,84,000 

National Agricultural Credit 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 


(Long Term Operations) Fund 

86,00,00,000 

(a) Internal ....... 

(b) Bxtemal ....... 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund- 

9,00,00,000 

(c) Government Treasury BiUs .... 

64,17,60,000 



Balances Held Abroad* 

4 , 60 , 29 , TOO 



Investments** ....... 

178,92,58,000 



Loans and Advances to : — 


National Industrial Credit 


(») Central Government . 


(Long Term Operations) Fund 

Deposits : — • 

10,00,00,000 

(ft) State Govemments@ ..... 

Loans and Advances to : — 

44 , 63 , 16,000 



(t) Scheduled Banks! ...... 

95,10,71,000 



(ii) State Co-operative Banks!! .... 

154,01,26,000 

(a) Government 


(rtf) Others ........ 

1,84,98,000 

(t) Central Government 

52,41,01,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricui- 


(it) State Governments .... 

17,65,26,000 

tura! Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


' - | 


GA OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


<1 

<1 

00 


liabilities 

Rs. 

ASSETS 

Rs. 



(a) Loans and Advances to : — 


(6) Banks 


(i) State Governments ..... 

27 , 75 , 15 , 00 ° 



(it) State Co-operative Banks .... 

11,05,75,°°° 

(»)) Scheduled Banks 

(it) State Co-operative Banks 

{in) Other Banks 

92,85,38,000 

2,82*48,000 

6,76,000 

(iit) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(6)Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Deben- 
tures . ....... 

4,45,53,°°° 



Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund 




Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks 


(c) Others .... 

149,03,78,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


Bills Payable .... 

53 ,i 3 , 99 ,«» 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 

50,18,000 



(6) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the 
Development Bank ..... 


Other Liabilities .... 

69,05,25,000 

Other Assets ....... 

32,09,63,000 

Rupees 

627,03,91,000 

Rupees .... 

627,03,91,000 


•Includes Gash and Short-term Securities. 

••Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term Oper- 
ations) Fund. 

(^Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund; but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

■f Includes Rs. 12,21,50,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4) (c) of the R. B. I. Act. 
ttExcluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Lortg Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

Dated the 17th day of February : 1965. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1%5/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 


LIABILITIES Rs. Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Department, 7,70,37,000 

Notes in circulation . . . 2597,91,41,000 

Total Notes issued . 2605,61,78,000 


Total — Liabilities . . . 2605,61,78,000 

Dated the IJ 4 h day of February ,1965. 



27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


780 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1 965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 19th February, 1965 

8.0, 660. — In nursuance of sub-rule (7) of rule 126HH, read with rule 126X. 
of the Defence of India Rules, 1962, the Central Government hercbv directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. F. 
3/2/04-GC. II dated the 28th January, 1964, namely: — 

In the said Schedule, — 

(1) columns 0, 16 and 11 shall be omitted; 

(2) columns 7 to 9 shall be re-numbered as columns 0 to 8; 

(3) the existing Note shall be numbered as Note 1 and after the Note as so- 

numbered, the following Note shall be added, namely: — 

"Note 2. — Gold as well as ornaments received by certified goldsmiths In 
accordance with the provisions of sub-rule (ID of rule 126HH shall 
also be accounted for in this. Where a certified goldsmith posses- 
sing equipment for drawing wires or for die-casting receives gold 
obtained by melting old ornaments, he shall specify the quantity of 
such gold in column 4”. 

[No. F. 3 /2/64-GC TI.l 
B. D. PANDE, Addl. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 
Customs 


New Delhi, the 27 th February, 1965 

8 . 0 . 661,— In exercise of the powers conferred bv clause (a) of section 7 of 
the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 19621 the Centra! Government hereby appoints 
Mandapam in the State of Madrrs as a customs port for the unloading of imported 
goods and the loading of export goods. 

[No. 38/F. No. 14 /1/65-L.C.II.T 
G. P. DURAIRAJ, Dy. Secy. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, ALLAHABAD 

■ Allahabad, the 2nd February, 1965. 

8.0. 662. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the- 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby delegate to all Assistant Collectors of Central 
Excise In Allahabad Collectorate, the power under Rule 56-A of the Central Excise- 
Rules, 1944, to deal with applications within their respective jurisdiction. They 
should, however, endorse to this office a copy of the permission granted by them. 

[No. 1/CE/05.T 
B. D. DESHMUKFI, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, BANGALORE 

Central F.xcises 

Bangalore, the 3rd February, 1965 

S.O, 663.— In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the- 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby empower the Assistant Collectors of Central 
Excise, in this Collectorate to exercise within their respective jurisdiction, the 
powers vested in me under Rule D6A of Central Excise Rules, 1944. 

TNo. 1/65.] 

V. PARTHASARATHY, 
Collector. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL & MINES 
(Department of Mines & Metals) 

New Delhi , the 17 th February 1905 

8.0. 664. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that coal is likely 
to be obtained from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 
of 1957), the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to prospect 
for coal therein. 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 y8l 


The plan of the area covered by this notification can be inspected at the office 
of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., (Revenue Section), Darbhanga 
House, Ranchi or at the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Dhanbad or at the 
office of the Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta. 

All persons Interested in the lands mentioned in the said Schedule shall deliver 
all maps, charts and other documents referred to in sub-section (7) of section 13 
of the said Act to the Revenue Officer of the National Coal Development Corpora- 
tion Ltd., Darbhanga House, Ranchi, within 90 days from the date of publication 
of this notification. 

Schedule 

Drg. No. Rev/39/64 

Dated 26.5.64. 

(Showing lands notified 
for prospecting) 

MAHAL BLOCK 
(Jharia Coalfield) 


Serial Thana 


No. 

Village 

Thana 

No. 

District 

Area 

Remarks 

i 

Karadi 

Chas 

214 

Dhanbad 


Full 

2 

Kendulia 

■ M 

215 

33 


Part 

3 

Mahar 

■ 55 

225 

33 


Part 

4 

Naradi 

* 55 

226 

33 


Full 

5 

Shibbabudi 

* i 3 

227 

33 


Part 

6 

Kulshara 

* 53 

2Z8 

53 


Full 

7 

Sitanala 

■ 33 

229 

33 


Part 

8 

Banshara 

* 33 

233 

33 


Part 

9 

Tilatanr 

• 55 

216 

53 


Part 


Total Area : 2120*00 acres (approximately) 
or 8;S 6o meteres (approximately), 

Boundary description; — 

A — B Line passes along the common boundary of villages Amlabad and 
Mahal, Amlabad & Karadi, Part common boundary of Amlabad & 
Kendulia and meets at point ‘B’. 

B — C line passes through villages Kendulia, Tilatanr & Mahal (which is part 
common boundary of Parbatpur Block notified u/s 4(1) of Coal Act 
vide S.O. No. 42 dated 28th December, 1963, and meets at piont ‘C’. 

C— D lino passes through village Mahal and meets at point T)’, 

D — E line passes along the common boundary of villages Mahal & 
Manpur, Naradl & Manpur, Banshara & Manpur, Banshara & Chak- 
parbad, part common boundary of villages Banshara & Pathargarha 
meets at point ‘E*. 

E — F line passes through villages Banshara, Sitanala, Shibbabudi and along 
the oart common boundary of villages Shibbabudi & Sitanala and 
meets at point ‘F’. 

E— A line passes along the part right, bank of Damodar River which is part 
common boundary of Thana Chas and Thana Jharia and meets at 
point ‘A’. 

[No. C2-20(23)/64J 
K. SUBRAHMANYAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Department of Industry) 

New Delhi, the 15 th February, 1965 

S.O. 665. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Patent Office (Class III) Recruitment Rules, 1962, namely; — 

1, These rules may be called the Patent Office (Class III) Recruitment (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1965, 




782 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II- 


2- In the Patent Office (Class III) Recruitment Rules, 1962. rule 4 shall be 
lettered as sub-rule (a) thereof and after sub-rule (a) as so lettered, the 
following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, out of the total 
number of permanent vacancies in any of the said posts to be filled 
by direct recruitment, not more than one-third may be filled by trans- 
fer from among the employees of the State Governments concerned, 
in accordance with the general instructions issued by the Central 
Government from time to time. 

Note. — For this purpose there should be a minimum of three permanent 
vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment during a particular calen- 
dar year.” 

[No. F. 18 (9) -TMP /04-II/P&D.] 
New Delhi, the 16th February, 1965 

S.O, 666.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment Rules, 1958, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1966. 

2. In the Patent Office Class IV Recruitment Rules, 1968, rule 2 shall be letter- 
ed as sub-rule (a) thereof and after sub-rule (a) as so lettered, the Allowing sub- 
rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules out of the total 
number of permanent vacancies in any of the said posts to be filled 
by direct recruitment, not more than one-third may be filled by trans- 
fer from among the employees of the State Governments concerned, 
in accordance with the general instructions issued by the Central 
Government from time to time. 

Note. — F or this purpose there should be a minimum of three permanent 
vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment during a particular calen- 
dar year.” 

[No. F. 18(9)-TMP/64. I/P&D.1 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy, 



(Department of Industry) 

Indian Standards Institution 

New Delhi, ike 16 th February, 1965 

S.O. 667 — In pursuance of sub- regulation (x) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulatons, 1955, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that thirteen licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been granted authorizing 
the licensees to use the Standard Mark. 

The Schedule 


Licence No. 
and Date 


Period of Validity 


Name and Address of the 
Licensee 


Article/Process covered 
by the Licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


1. CM/L-990 
11-1-1965 


2. CM/L-991 
21-1-1965 


3. CM/L-992 
25-1-1965 


4. CM/L-993 

25-1-1965 

5. CM/L-994 

25-1-1965 


16-1-65 15-1-66 M/s. Asiatic Plywood Indus- 

tries, Barrackpore, Trunk 
Road, Panihati, 24-Parga- 
ganas, having their Office 
at 30, Strand Road, Cal- 
cutta — 1. 

1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Assam Forest Products 

Pvt. Ltd., Makum Junction, 
Assam, having their Office 
at Dibrugarh (Assam). 

1-2-65 31-1-66 M /s. Yawalkar Insecticides 

and Chemicals, 20 Indus- 
trial Estate Kamptee Road, 
Nagpur-4, having their 
Office at Khare Town, 
Dharampeth, Nagpur- 1. 

1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Indiday, Plot No. 2, 

Udyog Nagar, Goregaon, 
Bombay-62. 

1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. All India Medical Corpn., 

Simpoli Road, Borivli West, 
Bombay-66, having their 
Office at 185, Princes Street, 
Bombay-2. 


31-1-66 


Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


Plywood for General Purposes 


Formulations Based on Phenyl 
Mercury' Acetate 


BHC Dusting Powders 


DDT Dusting Powders 


IS: 10-1964 Specification for 
Plywood Tea-Chests {Set and 
Revision) 


IS : 303-1960 Specification for 
Plywood for General Purposes ] 


IS : 2357-1963 Specification for 
Formulations Based on 
Phenyl Mercury Acetate. 


IS : 561-1962 Specification for 
BHC Dusting Powders. 

IS : 564-1961 Specification for 
DDT Dustin Powders. 


Sec, S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 783 


12 3 4 


5 


6 


7 


6 GM/L-995 
25-1-1965 


7 GM/L-996 
25-1-1965 


8 CM/L-997 

25-1-1965 


9 CM/L-998 
27-1-1965 


10 CM/L-999 

29-1-1965 


11 CM/L-1000 

29-1-1965 


1-2-65 


1-2-65 


1-2-65 


16-2-65 


1-2-65 


1-3-65 


31-1-66 


31-1-66 


31-1-66 


M/s. AH India Medical Corpn., 
Simpoli Road, Borivli West, 
Bombay-66, having their 
office at 185, Princess Street, 
Bombay-2 

M/s. All India Medical Corpn., 
Simpoli Road, Borivli West, 
Bombay-66, having their office 
at 1 85, Princes Street, Bom- 
bay-2 

The Omega Insulated Cable 
Co. India Ltd., 

Plot Nos. 16 and 17 Industrial 
Estate, Arriba ttur, Madras- 53, 
having their office at 122/2, 
Mount Road, Madras-6 


Endrin Emulsifiable Concen- 
trates 


Copper Oxychloride Water 
Dispersible Powder Concen- 
trates 


(i) PVC Insulated Cables, 

Unsheathed with Copper 

Conductor, 650 Volts Grade 

(ti) PVC Insulated Cables, 
Unsheathed with Aluminium 
Conductor, 250 Volts Grade 


IS : 1310-1958 Specification for 
Endrin Emulsifiable Con- 
centrates 


IS : 1507-1959 Specification for 
Copper Oxychloride Water 
Dispersible Powder Con- 
centrates 

IS : 694 (Part IV1964 Specifi- 
cation for PVC Insulated 
Cables (For Voltages up to 
1100V) Part I with Copper 
Conductors (Revised) 

IS : 694 (Part If) 1964 

Specification for PVC 
Insulated Cables (For Vol- 
tages upto 1 ico V) Part II 
with Aluminium Con- 
ductors (Revised) 


15-2-66 


31-1-66 


28-2-66 


M/s. M. L. Day & Co., 28 B.T. 
Road, Cossipore, Calcutta-2, 
having their office at 57-B, 
Chittaranjan Avenue, Cal- 
cutta-12 

M/s. Rajasthan Industrial and 
Scientific Corporation, 39, 
Industrial Area, Jhotwara, 
(Jaipur West), Jaipur having 
their office at Rahul Meters, 
Chaura Rasta, Jaipur. 

M/s. Moti Electric Industries, 
1 5- A Najafgarh Road, New 
Delhi-15. 


Steel Drums, 20 Litres Capa- 
city, Grade Bai'Ungah'anricd) 


Water Meters (Domestic Type) 
15 mm Size 


(0 PVC Insulated & PVC Shea- 
thed Cables with Copper 
Conductor, 250 Volts Grade 
(a) PVC Insulated Cables, 
Unsheathed with Copper 
Conductor, 650 Volts Grade 


IS : 2552-1963 Specification for 
Steel Drums (Galvanized 
and Ungalvanized) 


IS : 779-J961 Specification for 
Water Meters (Domestic 
Type) 


IS : 694 (Part I) 1964 Specifica- 
tion for PVC Insulated 
Cables (For Voltages upto 
1 1 co Volts) with Copper 
Conductors ( Revised) 


i 


784 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II- 



12 CM/L-iooi 
29-1-1965 

1-3-65 

28-2-66 

M/s. Nielcon Private Ltd., 

37-F, Parel Road, Cross 
Lace, Chinchpokli, Bom- 

bay-12 

Fractional Horse Power Three- 
Phase Squirrel Cage In- 
duction Motors 

IS : 996-1959 Specification fo r 
Small AC and Universal 
Electric Motors with Class 
‘A ’ Insulation 

13 CM/L-1002 
29-1-1965 

1-3-65 

28-2-66 

M/s. Electronic & Industrial 
Instruments Co. Pvt. Ltd., 
B-17, Industrial Estate, 

Laboratory Deflection 
pH Meters 

IS : 2711-1964 Specification for 
Laboratory Deflection pH 
Meters 


S ana tn agar, Hyderabad- 3 8 


{No. MD/33 :i6] 


''■4 

oo 

Ui 


Stc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 



S.O. 668. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (i) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 19 55, as amended 
111 1961, 196.2 and 1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that fortynine licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
a nnexed, have been renewed. 


-"-I 

00 

00 


The Schedule 


Serial 

No. 

« 

Licence No. 

on n 1 o to 

Period of validity 

Name and address of the lic- 

Article(s) covered by the licence 

Relevant Indian Standard 

dUU UdLC * 

(2) 

From 

(3) 

To 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

1. 

CM/L'44, 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Shalimar Tar Products 
(1935) Ltd., 6, Lyons Range, 
Calcutta. 

Naphthalene 

IS : 539-1955 Specifica- 
tion for Naphthalene. 

2. 

CM/L-47 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Hunsur Plywood Works, 
P.0. Hunsur (Mysore State). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specifica- 

tion for Plywood Tea- 
Chests. (Revised). 

3- 

CM/L-50 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. East India Plywood Co. 
Pvt. Ltd., 2, Nctaji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta. 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

4- 

CM/L-51 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Jaypore Timber and Ven- 
eer Mills Pvt. Ltd., Dibru- 
garh, Distt. Lakhimpur (Up- 
per Assam). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS ; 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

5- 

CM/L-52 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

The Malabar Plywood Works, 
Cheruvannur, Feroke (Kerala 
State). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

6. 

CM/L-53 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. South India Plywood In- 
dustries, Market Landing, 
Kottavam (Kerala State). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

7- 

CM/L-56 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

The Great Indian Plywood Mann- T ea-Chest Plywood Panels 
factoring Co., 76, Jessore Road, 

Dum Dum, Calcutta-28. 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

8. 

CM/L-57 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Assam Valley Plywood 
Pvt. Ltd., 67B, Netaji Subhas 
Road, Calcutta-i. 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

9- 

CM/L-58 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Assam Bengal Veneer In- 
dustries Pvt. Ltd., 9, Clive 
Row, Calcutta- 1. (Factory — 
Calcutta). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 



io. 

CM/L-59 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Assam Bengal Veneer In- 
dustries Pvt. Ltd., 9, Clive 
Row, Calcutta- 1 (Factory — 
Oodlabari). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chest 
(Revised). 

ii. 

CM/L-60 

20-1-1958 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

The Standard Furniture Co. Ltd. 
Kallai, Kozhikode-3 (Kera- 
la State). 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

12. 

CM/L-85 

24-4-1958 

9-1-65 

31-12-66 

M/s. Hindusthan Timber In- 
dustries, 41, Chaulpatty Road, 
Beliaghata Calcutta- 10. 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

13. 

CM/L-113 

9-1-1959 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Phoenix Plywood, Kotta- 
yam, Kerala. 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

14. 

CM/L-114 

9-1-1959 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Venus Plywood Company, 
Nemmara P.O., Kerala. 

Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 


IS : 10-1953 Specification 
for Plywood Tea-Chests 
(Revised). 

IS- 

CM/L-146 

28-9-1959 

5-1-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Bharat Pulverising Mills 
Pvj. Ltd., 3 8- A, Sayani Road, 
Bombay-28. 

BHC Water Dispersible Powder 

Concentrates 

IS : 562-1962 Specifica- 
tion for BHC Water 
Dispersible Powder 

Concentrates (Second 

Revision). 

l6. 

CM/L-I56 

20-11-1959 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. S ulekha Works Limited, 
Sulekha Park, Jadavpur, Cal- 
cutta-32. 

Ferro-Gallo Tannate Fountain Pen Ink (01 per- 
cent iron content). 

IS : 220-1959 Specifica- 
tion for Ferro-Gallo 

Tannate Fountain Pen 
Ink (0 ■ 1 percent Iron 
Content) (Revised). 

17. 

GM/L-158 

15-1-1960 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

The Aluminium Industries Lim- 
ited, Hirakud, Sambalpur Dt, 
(Orissa State). 

Steel Cored and Plain Stranded Aluminium 
Conductors of all types and sizes specified in 

IS : 398-1961. 

IS : 39S-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Hard-Drawn St- 
randed Aluminium&Steel 
Cued Aluminium 

Conductors for Overhead 
Power T ransmission 

Purposes (Revised). 

18. 

CM/L-160 

15-1-1960 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

The Indian Iron and Steel' Co. 
Ltd., 12, Mission Row, Cal- 
cutta-!. 

Flushing Cisterns 


IS r 774-1960 Specification 
for flushing cisterns for 
Water CPsets and Urinals 
(Valveless Syphonic 

Type) (Revised). 

19 - 

CM/L-161 

15-1-1960 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

M/s. Patiala Biscuits Manufac- 
turers Private Ltd., Rajpura. 
(Punjab). 

Biscuits (Excluding Wafer Biscuits) 


IS : 1011-1957 Specifica- 
tion for Biscuits (Exclud- 
ing Wafer Biscuits). 

20, 

CM/L-215 

29-8-1960 

15-1-65 

15-1-66 

M/s. Tata-Fison Industries Ltd.. 
Pandit Motilal Nehru Road, 
Jamuna Kinara, Agra (U.P.). 

BHC Dusting Powders 


IS : 561-1962 Specifica- 
tion for BHC Dustiru 
Powders (Second Revision^ 


Sec. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27. 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 787 



I 


2 


3 


4 


S 


6 


oo 

oc 


21 CM/L-226 
16-9-1960 


1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Sulekha Works Limited, Dye-Based Fountain Pen Inks, Blue, Green, and 

Sulekiia Paik, Jadavpur, Cal- Red. 
cutta-32. 


22 CM/L-233 25-1-65 

18-10-1960 


15-1-66 M/s. Great Eastern Cutlery Pruning Knives, Hooked & Curved 
Works, 20, Strand Road, Cal- 
cutta. 


23 


CM/L-256, 

29-12-1960 


24 CM/L-257 
29-12-1960 


15-1-65 

15-1-65 


15-1-66 M/s. Tata-Fison Industries Ltd., Copper Oxychloride Dusting Powders 
Palluruthy, Cochin-5. 


15-1-66 M/s. Tata-Fison Industries 
Ltd., Pallumthy, Cochin- 5. 


Copper Oxychloride Water Dispersible Powder 
Concentrates. 


2 J CM/L-259, 
13-1-1961 

26 CM/L-269, 
30-1-1961 


15-1-65 15-1-66 M/s. G.M.C. Hitnco Limited, 18-Litre Square Tins 

Kamlanagar, Subzimandi, 

Delhi-6. 

1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Flintrock Products Private DDT Water Dispersible Powder Concentrates 

Ltd., Belvedere Road, Maza- 
gaon, Bombay- 10. 


27 CM/L-372, 
1 1-1-1962 


1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Tata-Fison Industries Ltd. BHC Emulsifiable Concentrates 

Pandit Motilal Nehru Road, 

Jacnoa Kinara, Agra. 


28 CM/L-374, 

ri-1-196 2 


1-2-65 


31-1-66 M/s. Abrol Engineering Co., 
Circular Road, Kapurthala. 


Metal Clad Switches (Capacity 15, 30 and 60 amp- 
eres, DP, TP, 250 Volts and 500 Volts). 


29 CM/L-376, 

16-1-1962 

30 CM/L-478, 
29-11-1962 


1-2-65 31-1-66 M/s. Surma Valley Sawmills Tea-Chest Plywood Panels 

Private Ltd., P.O. Bhanga- 
bazar, Assam. 

9-1-65 31-12-65 M/s. Shalimar Tar Products Hot Applied Sealing Compounds for Joints in 

(1935) Limited, P-46, Hide Concrete. 

Extension Road, Kidderpore, 

Calcutta-23 having their Offi- 
ce at 6 Lyons Range, Calcutta 
-1. 


IS:i22i-i957 Specifica- 
tion Dye Based Fountain 
Pen Inks (Blue, Green, 
Violet, Black & Red). 
IS : 619-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Pruning Knives, 
Hooked and Curved. 
(Revised). 

IS : 1506^959 Specifica- 
tion for Copper Oxy ch- 
loride Dusting Powders. 
IS : 1507-1959 Specifica- 
tion for Copper Oxy- 
chloride Water Disper- 
sible Powder Concent- 
rates. 

IS : 916-195S Specifica- 
tion for 18-Litre Square 
Tins. 

IS : 565-1961 Specifica- 
tion for DDT Water Dis- 
persible Powder Con- 
centrates {Revised), 

IS : 632-195S Specifica- 
tion for BHC Emulsifi- 
able Concentrates. (, Re- 
vised). 

IS : 1567-1960 Specifica- 
tion for Metal Clad Swi- 
tches (Current Rating 
not exceeding 100 am- 
peres). 

IS : 10-1953 Specifica- 
tion for Plywood Tea- 
Chests. (Reived). 

IS : 1834-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Hot Applied 
Sealing Compounds for 
Joints in Concrete. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 19G5/PHALCUNA 8, 18R6 [Pvrt II- 



31 CM/L-479 
29-11-1962 


32 CM/L-481 
29-11-1962 


33 CM/L-487 
26-12-1962 


9-1-63 31-12-65 M/s. Shalimar Tar Products Preformed Fillers for Expansion in Joint in Con- 

(1935) Limited, P-46 Hide Ex- Crete Non-extruding and Resilient Type (Bit- 

tension Road, Kidderpore, umen Impregnated Fibre). 

Calcutta_-23 having their office 
at 6, Lyons Range, Calcutta-i. 


16-1-65 15-1-66 Government Central Lock Brass Padlocks 

Factory, (Directorate of In- 
dustries, Government of West 

Bengal), Bargachia, Distt. M Type Brass Padlocks 
Howrah. 

15-1-65 15-1-66 M/s. Sulekha Works Ltd., Ink, Drawing, Waterproof, Black 

Sulekha Park, Jadavpur, Cal- 
cutta-32. 


IS : 1838-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Preformed Fill- 
ers for Expansion Joint 
in Concrete Non-extrud- 
ing and Resilent Type 
(Bitumen-Impregnated 
Fibre). 

IS : 275-1961 (Specifica- 
tion for Padlocks (Sec- 
ond Revision). 

IS : 1018-1961 Spedfi- [ 

cation for M Type Brass 
Padlocks. ( Revised ). 

IS : 789-1955 Specifics 
tion for Ink, Drawing 
Waterproof Black. 


34 CM/L-489 
26-12-1962 


35 CM/L-490 
26-12-1962 


36 CM/L-491 
26-12-62 


37 CM/L-494 
31-12-1962 


15-1-65 15-1-66 M/s. Bhanger Bros, and Co. Pri- Three-Phase Induction Motors upto 3 HP only 

vate Ltd., 142/48 Ghodbund- 
cr Road, Jogeshwari Bombay- 
60, having their Registered 
Office at Anand House, 158, 

Kalbadevi Road, Bombay-2. 

15-1-65 15-1-66 M/s. Bhanger Bros. & Co. Pri- Fractional Horse Power Electric^Motors. 

vate Ltd., 142/48, Ghodbund- 
er Road, Jogesbwari, Bombay- 
60 hairing their Registered Offi- 
ce at Anand House, 158, Kalba- 
devi Road, Bombay-2. 


IS : 325-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Three-Phase In- 
duction Motors (Second 
Revision). 


IS : 996-1959 Specifica- 
tion for Small AC and 
Universal Electric Mot- 
ors with Class ‘A’ Insul- 
tion. 


15-1-65 


15-1-65 


15-1-66 M/s. Ganapathy Engineering Metal Clad Switches 15 and 30 amperes of 250 
Manufacturers Private Ltd, Volts and 500 Volts Grade, and 60 and 100 
Ganapathy, Coimbatore-6. amperes of 500 Volts Grade. 

15-1-66 M/s. C.MC. (India), Survey Ultramarine Blue for Paints 
No. 529, Near Electricity Sub- 
Station, Odhav Road, Ahme- 
dabad-10. 


IS : 1567-1960 Spedfica" 
tion for Metal Clad Swi" 
tches (Current Rating 
not exceeding 100 amperes. 

IS : 55-1950 Specifica- 
tion for Ultramarine Blue 
for Paints. 


38 CM/L-495 
31-12-1962 


15-1-65 


15-1-66 M/s. Feroke Tile Works, Fero- Salt-Glazed Stoneware Pipes and Fittings of Dia- 
ke (Kerala State). meter 100 mm, 150 mm , and 300 mm. 


IS : 651-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Salt-Glazed St- 
oneware Pipes and Fit- 
tings. (Ret'istX). 


Sec. 3 ili)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, I9G5/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 



r 

2 

3 

4 

39 

CM/L-496 

9-1-1963 

15-1-65 

14-1-66 

40 

CM/L -499 

14-1-1963 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 

41 

CM/L-500 

14-1-1963 

1-2-65 

31-1-66 


5 


6 


M/s. Sarviit Electric Works, Metal Clad Switches, 15 and 30 amperes of 250 & 
Rurka Read, Goraya (N. Rly.) 500 volts Grade and 60 amp. of 500 Volts Grade 
(Distt. Julliindur). 

M/s. Kolay Biscuits Co. Pvt. Biscuits (Excluding Wafer Biscuits) 

Ltd., 100-A, Charakdanga 
Road, Beliaghata, Calcutta-10. 

The Alum irtbim Industries Ltd. PVC Cables only with Aluminium Conductors 
No. t. Ceramic Factory' Road, (250 and 650 Volts Grade). 

Kundara. 


42 CM/L-SOl 
23-1-1963 


1-2-65 31-1-66 Mi's. Tata-Fison Industries Ltd. Endrin Emulsifiable Concentrates 

20, Howrah Road, Salkia, Cal- 
cutta having their Head Office 
at Union Bank Building, Dal- 
ai Street, Fort, Bombay-i. 


7 


IS : 1567-1960 Specifica- 
tion for Metal Clad Swi- 
tches (Current Rating not 
exceeding 100 amperes). 
IS : 10-11-1957 Specifica- 
tion for Biscuits (Ex- 
cluding Wafer Biscuits)^ 

IS : 694 (Part L-1964 Spe- 
cification for PVC insu- 
lated Cables (For Volt- 
ages upto 1 100 V) with 
Copper Conductors (Re- 
t ised). 

IS 694 (Part I D-1964 Spe- 
cification for PVC In- 
sulated Cables (For Vol- 
tages up to 1 100 V) 

with Aluminium Con- 
ductors (Revised). 

IS : 1310-1958 Specifica- 
tion for Endrin Emulsi- 
fiable Concentrates. 


43 


CM/L-610 

31-12-1963 


1-2-65 31-1-66 


M/s. Asian Cables Corporation 
Ltd., Kotakwadi, Pokhran 
Road, Post Box No. 11, Thana 
having their Registered 
Office at Navsari Building, 
240 D, Naoroji Road, Fort, 
Bombay-i. 


Type 

Non-Flexible Cables 

(«) TRS (Tough Rubber 
Sheathed) 

(u) Flame Retrading 
(in) TRS with earth Con- 
tinuity Conductor 
(tv) Braided and Com- 
pounded 

(r) Weatherproof 
(vt) Flame Retarding 


Voltage Conductor IS : 694 (Part L-1964 Spe- 
Grade cification for PVC In- 

sulated Cables (For 
Voltages upto 1 100 V) 
with Copper Conductors 
(Revised). 


250") Copper 
& 660 f or Alinni- 

Volts f nium 
250 volts J 


250 volts Capper 
250 and Copper or 
6 60 Volts Al umini um 
660 volts Aluminium 
660 volts Aluminium 


IS : 694 (Part IT-1964 Spe- 
cification for PVC In- 
sulated Cables (For Volt- 
ages upto 1 100 V) with 
Aluminium Conductors. 
(Revised). 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 



Flexible Cables 


44 CM/L-611, 
31-12-1963 


45 CM/L-612 
31-12-1963 

46 CM/L-613 
31-12-1963 


47 CM/L-614 
31-12-1963 


48 CM/L-615 
31-12-1963 


49 CM/L-616 
7-1-1964 


1-2-65 31-1-66 

1-2-65 31-1-66 

1-2-65 31-1-66 

1-2-65 31-1-66 

1-2-65 31-1-66 

1-2-65 31-1-66 


(viz) Tough Rubber 

Sheathed 660 volts Copper 

Flexible Cords 

(viF) Twisted and Braided 250 volts 

(ix) Workshop Type . 250 volts V Copper 

(x) T ough Rubber Shea- 250 volts J 

thed. / 

M/s. Parkash Pulverising Mills, BHC Dusting Powders IS : 561-1962 Specifica- 

Industrial Area, Ahvar. tion for BHC Dusting 

Powders (Second Revi- 
sion). 


M/s. National Refinery' Private Silver Solder 
Ltd., 87, Tardeo Road, 

Bombay- 34- 

The National Rolling and Steel Steel Wire Ropes for 
Ropes Limited, Shamnagar, 

24 Parganas, West Bengal having 
their Registered Office at Nicco 
House, 1 and 2 Hare Street, 

Calcutta- 1. 


IS : 192-1956 Specifica- 
tion for Silver Solder 
Solder (Revised). 

Haulage Purposes in Mines IS : 1856-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Steel Wire Ropes 
for Haulage purposes in 
Mines 


M/s. Lloyd Bitumen Products, Preformed Fillers for Expansion Joint in Con- 
A5, A6, and A7, Bon-Hooghly Crete Non-Extruding and Resilient Type (Brt- 
Industrial Estate, B.T. Road, umen-Impregnated Fibre). 

Baranagore having their office 
at 4A Royd Street, Calcatta-16. 


M/s. Bayer (India) Ltd., Palkhi- Parathion Emulsifiable Concentrates 
wadi. Off. Cadell Road, Bom- 
bay-28 having their Office at 
Nagin Mahal, 5th Floor, 82, 

Veer Nariman Road, Fort, 


IS : 1838-1961 Specifica- 
tion for Preformed Fill- 
ers for Expansion Joint 
in Concrete Non- Extrud- 
ing and Resilient Type 
(Bitumen - Impregnated 
Fibre). 

IS : 2129-1962 Specifica- 
tion for Parathion Emul- 
sifiable Concentrates. 


Bombay- 1. 

M/s. Jaipur Metals and Electri- Hard-Drawn Stranded Aluminium and Steel-Cor- IS : 398-1961 Specification 
cals Ltd., Near Railway Sta ed Al umini um Conductors for Overhead Power for Hard-Drawn Stranded 

tiou, Jaipur (Rajasthan). Transmission Purposes. Aluminium and Steel 

Cored Aluminium Con- 
ductors for Overhead 
Power Transmission 
Purposes (Revised). 


[No. M D/33 : 16/A] 


\o 


SEC. S (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 



7 92 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965 /PHALCUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II 


New Delhi , the 17 th February 1965 

S.O. 669 In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, as amended in 1961, 1962 and 1964, the Indian 
Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking l'cc per unit for Steel Products, details 
of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been determined and the fee(s) shall 
come into force with effect from 1 April 1965. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

(I) 

Product/Class of Products 

( 2 ) 

No. and title of relevant Indian 
Standard 

( 3 ) 

Unit 

(4) 

Marking 
Fee per 
Unit 

( 5 ) 

I 

Structural Steel (Standard Qua- 
lity) 

18:226-1962 Specification for 
Structural Steel (Standard 
Quality) ( Third Revision ) 

One Tonne 

: 25 Paise 

2 

Galvanized Steel Sheets (Plain 
and Corrugated) 

IS .‘277-1962 Specification for 
Galvanized Steel Sheets (Plain 
and Corrugated ( Revised) 

Do. 

Do. 

3 

Mild Steel and Medium Ten- 
sile Steel Bars and Hard- 
Drawn Steel Wire for Conc- 
rete Reinforcement. 

13:432-1960 Specification for 
Mild Steel and Medium 
Tensile Steel Bars and Hard- 
Drawn Steel Wire for Conc- 
rete Reinforcement ( Revised ) 

Do. 

Do. 

4 

Cold Rolled Carbon Steel 

Sheets. 

IS.J13-1963 Specification for 
Cold Rolled Carbon Steel 
Sheets (Revised) 

Do. 

Do. 

5 

High Tensile Structural Steel 

IS:q6i-iq62 Specification for 
High Tensile Structural Steel 
(Revised). 

Do. 

Do. 

6 

Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Sheet 
and Strip. 

18:1079-1963 Specification for 
Hot Rolled Carbon Steel 
Sheet and Strip (Revised) 

Do. 

Do. 

7 

Rivet Bars for Structural Pur- 
poses. 

18:1148-1964 Specification for 
Rivet Bars for Structural Pur- 
poses (Revised). 

Do. 

Do. 

8 

High Tensile Rivet Bars for 
Structural Purposes. 

IS:ii49-i964 Specification for 
High Tensile Rivet Bars for 
Structural Purposes (Revised). 

Do. 

Do. 

9 

Structural Steel (Ordinary Qua- 
lity). 

IS:i977-i962 Specification for 
Structural Steel (Ordinary 
Quality). 

Do. 

Do. 

10 

Structural Steel (Fusion Welding 
Quality) 

IS:2o62-i96z Specification for 
Structural Steel (Fusion Wel- 
ding Quality). 

Do. 

Do. 


Note : — The above rate of marking fee will be applicable only 
turers of steel and re-rollers on par with them. 


in case of primary manufac- 
[No. MD/i8:2] 


New Delhi, the 18 th February 1965 

SO 670 . — In licence No. CM/L -489 dated 20 December 1962 held by M/s 
Bhanger Bros & Co. Pvt. Ltd., Bombay the details of which are published under 
S.O. 009 in the Gazette of India, Part II, Sub-section 3 (ii) dated 22 February 
1964 , the list of articles has been revised as follows with effect from 15 Febru- 
ary ’l 965 '. 

Three-Phase Induction Motors up to 5 HP only, 

[No. MD/ 12 : 913 .] 
D. V. KARMARKAR, Jt, Director (Marks) 



Sec. 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27. 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


793 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 10th February 1965 

S.O. 671. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution of India 
the President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Delhi shall, subject to 
the control of the President and until further orders, exercise, In the Union Terri- 
tory of Delhi, the powers of the State Government under section 34 of the Preven- 
tion of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (59 of I960). 

[No. 9-24/62-LD.] 
K. C. SAR'KAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 16 th February, 1965. 

S.O. 672. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 
of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the Central Government, 
after consultation with the Medical Council of India, hereby directs that the 
medical qualification "M.D.” granted by the University of British Columbia, 
Canada, shall be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of that Act. 

[No. F. 32-15/64-MPT.] 


New Delhi, the 20 th February 1965 

S.O. 673, — Whereas Miss R. Eliason, Nursing Superintendent, Baptist Chris- 
tian Hospital, P.O. Tezpur, District Darang (Assam) has been elected by the 
Assam Nurses, Midwives and Health Visitors Council to be a member of the Indian 
Nursing Council under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian 
Nursing Council Act, 1947 (48 of 1947); 

And whereas, Miss N. Dass, Nursing Superintendent, V. J. Hospital, Amritsar 
(Punjab) has ben elected by the Punjab Nurses Registration Council to be a 
member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the said Act; 

And whereas Dr. T. V. Sivanandam, MBBS., MLC., 'Chellam House’, 122, West 
Sambandam Road, Coimbatore, has been elected by the Medical Council of India 
to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the said Act, with effect from the 6th February, 1965; 

And whereas Dr. P. R. Trivedl, Dallo building, Ellis Bridge, Ahmedabad-6 
(Gujarat), has been elected by the Central Council of the Indian Medical Associa- 
tion to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council under clause (e) of sub- 
section (1). of section 3 of the said Act with effect from the 1st December, 1963; 

And whereas, Miss A. Cherlan, Nursing Officer, Directorate General of Health 
Services, New Delhi, has been re-elected with effect from the 1st December, 1963 
by the Council of the Trained Nurses Association of India to be a member of 
the Indian Nursing Council under clause (f) of Sub-section (1) of section 3 of 
the said Act; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby directs that Miss A. Cherlan, 
Nursing Officer, Directorate General of Health Services, New Delhi, shall continue 
to be a member of the Indian Nursing Council constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Health No. F. 27-57 /57-MII (B), dated 
the 1st December, 1958, with effect from the 1st December, 1963 and makes the 
following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Health No, F. 27-57/57-MII(B) dated the 1st December, 1958: — 

(1) under the heading "Elected under clause (a) of Sub-section (1) of 
Section 3"; 

(1) for the entry against serial No. 1, the following entry shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

“Miss R. Eliason, Nursing Superintendent, Baptist Christian Hospital, 
P.O, Tezpur, District Darang (Assam) ", 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Past II- 


(2) for the entry against Serial No. 5, the following entry shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

“Miss N. Dass, Nursing Superintendent, V, J. Hospital, Amritsar 
(Punjab)"; 

(ii) under the heading “Elected under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 

Section 3" for the entry against serial No. 1, the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely. — 

“Dr. T. V. Slvanandam, MBBS, MLC., Chellam House, 122, West Samban- 
dan Road, Coimbatore."; 

(iii) under the heading “Elected under clause (e) of sub-section (II) of 

Section 3, for the entry against serial No. 1, the following entry shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

"Dr. P. R. Tirvedi, Dalio building, Ellis Bridge, Ahmedabad-6 (Gujarat)". 

[No. F. 27-47/ 63-MPT(Pt. II) (A).] 


S.O. 674.— In pursuance of the provisions of Section 3 of the Indian Nursing 
Council Act (48 of 1947), the Central Government hereby directs that the Superin- 
tendent of Nursing Services (by whatever name called) of Gujarat State specified 
in sub-clause (ii) of clause (m) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the said Act 
shall be ex-officio member of the Indian Nursing Council. 

Now therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 3 
of the said Act the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Health No, 27-57/57-MII(B) dated the 1st December, 1958, namely: — - 

In the said notification under the heading “Ex-officio members under clause- 
(m) of sub-section (1) of Section 3" after the existing entries the following entry 
shall be inserted, namely: — 

"7. Superintendent of Nursing Services, Gujarat". 

[No. F. 27-47/63-MPT(B) ,] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 19 th February 1965 

S.O, 675. — Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has 
by notification No. 32-15/64-MPT, dated the 16th February, 1965, made in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), recognised the medical qualification “M.D.’ r 
granted by the University of British Columbia, Canada, for the purposes of the 
said Act; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956) 
the Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect from 
the date of this order or so long as Dr. David M. Kennedy who possesses the 
said qualification, continues to work in the Ratlam Mission Hospital Maslhi 
ChiKitsalayia, Ratlam, (Madhya Pradesh) to which he is attached for the time 
being for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable work, whichever is 
shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. David M. 
Kennedy shall be limited. 

[No. F. 32-15/64-MPT.] 


New Delhi, the 20 th February 1965 

8.0. 670. — Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health has, 
by notification No, 16-1 /62-MI dated the 26th July, 1962, made, in exercise of the 
powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council 
Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), recognised the medical qualification MI)., C.M, awarded 
by the University of McGill Montreal, Canada, for the purposes of the said Act; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1056), 
the Central Government hereby specifies a further period of two years with effect 
from the 26th July, 1964 or so long as Dr. J. A. Vandrick who possesses the said 



Sec. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


795 


qualification, continues to work in the Star of Hope Hospital, Canadian Baptist 
Mission, Aklvidu, West Godavari District, to which he is attached for the time 
being for the purposes of teaching, research or charitable work, whichever is 
shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. J. A, Vandrick 
shall be limited. 


[No. F. 32-64/64-MPT.]' 
B. B. L. BHARADWAJ, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 


(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 20th February 1905 

S.O. 677. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 114 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), the Central Government 
hereby fixes a sum of Rupees One Hundred as the amount for the bond to be 
given in respect of each seaman by a Master of a ship other than an Indian 
ship for the purposes of the said section. 


[No. 19-MT(1)/65.T 


S.O. 678. — Whereas the Government of India has ratified the International 
Loadlinc Convention 1930; 


And whereas Article 18 of the said Convention permits the acceptance of any 
other equivalent arrangement in substitution of a particular fitting or appliance 
adopted under the Loadline Rules; 


And whereas the Government of India is satisfied that the proposed “set in” 
superstructures will reduce concentration of stresses in sheer strakes of some 
ships, and the seaworthiness of such ships will not be adversely affected; and that 
the fitting is at least as effective as that required by the Indian Merchant Shipping 
(Load Line) Rules, 1934; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 109 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping (Loadline) Rules, 1934, the Government of India hereby 
accepts the “set in’’ superstructures or other modified form of superstructures as 
equivalent to a superstructure under Rule 1 of the Annexure to the said Con- 
vention subject to the following: — 

(i) the transverse amount of “set in” op each side of any ship having a 
rounded gunwale shall be limited to the point where the gunwale 
begins to curve down, or as near thereto as constructional arrange- 
ments allow and shall not exceed at any point a distance equal to 
B/25 where B is the moulded breadth of the ship; 

(ii) the transverse amount of "set in” on each side of any ship having the 

gunwale square to ship side shall not exceed at any point a distance 
equal to the width of the stringer bar plus 8 inches; 

(iii) in the computation of freeboard, the mean covered length of any “set 

in” superstructure shall be reduced by the ratio of the breadth of 
that “set In” superstructure to the breadth of the vessel at the mid- 
length of that superstructure as shown on the accompanying diagram 
marked annexure “A”. 


[No. P. 42-MAX?)/ 6 2 '] 

D. S. NIM, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi , the 19th February, 1965 

S.O. 679.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Communications (Posts and Tele- 
graphs) No. S.R.O. 620, dated the 28th February, 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification in Part II, General Central Service, 
Class III, under the heading '‘Office of the Director General, Posts and Tele- 
graphs”, in column (1), 

(a) the entry "Librarian” and the corresponding entries thereto in 

columns (2) to (5) shall be omitted; 

(b) against the entry “Mechanics”, for the existing entries in columns (2) 

to (5), the foliowing entries shall be substituted. 


"(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

Dy. Director of Tele- 
communications 
Research. 

Dy. Director of Tele- 
communications 
Research. 

All 

Director of Telecommu- 
nications Research. 


Assistant Director of 
Telecommunications 
Research. 

(i) to 
(iii) 

Dy. Director of Tele- 
communications Research” 




[No. 44/9/64-Disc.] 



Assistant 

D. K. AGARWAL, 
Director General (SEA), 







Sec. 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1W6 


797 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

(Archaeology) . 

New Delhi, the 17 th February, 1965. 

S.O. 680. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the ancient 
monument specified in the Schedule attached hereto is of national importance. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 4 of the Ancient Me aments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1968 (24 of 1958), the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to 
declare the said ancient monument to be of national importance. 

Any objection made within two months after the issue of this notification by 
any person interested in the said ancient monument will be considered by the 
Central Government. 




Serial State District Tehsil Locality 

No. 

2 3 4 5 

l Jammu & Kashmir Baramulla Uri Buniyar 


Schedule 


Name of Revenue Area Boundaries Ownership Remarks 

monumentj plot 

number 
to be 
included 
under 
protection 


6 


Ancient temple 

Survey plot 

8 Kanals 

North : Survey 

Temple 

Road 

(Survey 

together with 

Nos. 275, 

and 8 

plot No. 261. 

property. 

plot 

No. 43) 

adjacent land 

260 and 

Alar las. 

Fort: Survey 


is 

passing 

comprised in 

262. 


plot Nos. 261 


through survey 

survey plot 



and 274. 


plot 

No. 275 

Nos. ’ 275, 260 



South: Survey 


and 

survey plot 

and 262. 



plot Nos. 276 


Nos. 

260 and 




and 277. 

West : Survey 
plot Nos. 259, 
294 and 279. 


262. 



[No. F. 4 - 2 / 65 -Cl.] 

S. J. NABSIAN, 
Assistant Educational Adviser. 


798 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Paxt II- 





Sfc. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALC.UNA 8 , 1886 799 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(Rubber Control) 


New Delhi „ the 19th February, 1965. 

S.O. 681. — The Central Government hereby notifies that:— 

(a) the persons specified in items (1) to (4) below have been elected as mem- 
bers of the Rubber Board for a period of three years with effect from the 31st De- 
cember, 1964 under clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the 
Rubber Act, 1947 ( 24 of 1947), read with sub- rule (2) and (3) of rule 3 of the 
Rubber Rules, 1955, and 

(b) the persons specified in items (5) to (7) have been nominated by the Cen- 
tral Government as members of the Rubber Board for a period of three years with 
effect from the 19th February, 1965 under clause (d) of sub-scction (3) of section 
•4 of the Rubber Act, 1947 (24 of 1947), to represent the Interests shown against 


their names, namely: — 

(1) Shri Mathew Abraham, Ma- 
hendragiri Estate, Nagerocoil 
(Madras State), 

(2) Shri P. K. Ali, Managing Direc- V 
tor, Ummaya Greens (Private) ■ 
Ltd.. Palaparamba P.O., Tellicher- 
ry (Kerala State). 

(3) Shri George John, Ancheril, ' 
Kottayam (Kerala State) 

(4) Shri Michael A, Kalllvayalil, 
Marathi Estate. Peruvanthanam, 
Mundakayam (Kerala State), 1 

<51 Shri B. K Nair, I.N.T.U-C., ( 
Office Vandiperiyar (Kerala 1 
State). | 

(6) Shri K. Karunakaran, I.N.TU.C. [ 
Office, Trichur (Kerala State), j 

(7) Shri P. C. Baby. NeelammaJ I 

Putheneedu. Karavaloor, P.O. 1 
Punalur (Kerala State) . t 

/ 


Elected by the large growers in the 
State of Madras. 


Elected by the large growers in the 
State of Kerala, 


Nominated by the Centra] Govern- 
ment to represent labour. 


[No. F. 15 (3) Plant (B) /'64,] 
B. KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Textile Commissioner) 

Bombay, the 14 th January, 1965 

S.O. 682. — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by clauses 4, 14A and 
17 of the Cotton Control Order, 1965, and of all other powers enabling me in 
this behalf, 1 hereby make the following Order. 

1, Every ‘A’ and T3’ class cotton licence holder not being a manufacturer or 
a bank shall furnish to the Office of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay, in the 
form given in Annexure ‘A’ hereto, a fortnightly statement showing the position 
Therein as on the 15th and the last date of each month, so as to reach this Office 
■within the dates specified below: 

(i) The first statement showing the cotton position as on 31st December, 

1964, should reach not later than 22nd January, 1965. 

(ii) The second statement for the fortnight ending 15th January, 1965, 

should reach not later than 31st January, 1965. 

(lii; The third statement for the fortnight ending 31st January, 1905-. 
should reach not later than 7th February, 1965. 



800 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1905/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II 


(iv) For each fortnight thereafter, the statements should reach withi* 7 
days from the last date of the fortnight to which the statement 
relates. 

2. (a) No person shall hereafter enter into a contract to sell any Indian 
cotton to a manufacturer unless the manufacturer certifies in a form which 
may be prescribed by the Indian Cotton Mills’ Federation that the purchase 
is within the limits indicated by the Indian Cotton Mills’ Federation. 

(b) No person shall hereafter deliver to a manufacturer any Indian cotton 
against the contracts already entered into prior to this Order unless the manu- 
facturer certifies in a form which may be prescribed by the Indian Cotton 
Mills’ Federation that such purchase is within the limits indicated by the Indian 
Cotton Mills’ Federation, 

(c) Every manufacturer shall issue on or before 22nd January, 1905, a 
certificate in a Form which may be prescribed by the Indian Cotton Mills’ 
Federation, to the seller in respect of each contract entered into prior to this 
Order that the quantity purchased under the said Contract is within the limits 
indicated by the Indian Cotton Mills’ Federation. 

Annexure ‘A’ 

Full name and address of the licence holder , 

Licence No. A/B 

Instructions : — 

1. The quantity of cotton to be shown below shall include both the loose ginned cotton and 

pressed cotton and indicated in metric bales of 180 kgs. 

2 . The return should reach the Research Officer, Economics Branch (Cotton Cell), Office 
of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay No. i, not later than the dates specified in the 
Notification. 

PART-I 

min respect of total stocks of Indian Cotton as on 

Full description Quantity of Indian cotton lying 

of cotton 

Unsold Sold to a manu- Delivered to a 

facturcr but not manufacturer but Location 
delivered stored on hiB 

behalf 


I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Sec. i (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 g 0 I 


PART II 

Details in respect of nocks of cotton sold to a manufacturer but not delivered as on 


Full description Quantity Lot No. Press Press Running Name of Sale Location ’Remarks 
of cotton Marks Numbers the manu- Price of stock 

facturer 


PART III 

Return in respect of forward sales as on 


Full description of Quantity Name of the Sale Delivery ’Remarks 

cotton manufacturer price month 


I do hereby declare that I have compared the above particulars with the records and books 
of my office and that they are in so far as I can ascertain accurate. 

Signature of the licence holder. 


’State whether the certificate in respect of I. C. M, F’s permitted limit is obtained from the 
mills. 


New Delhi, the 18th February, 1965, 


Sd,/- R. Doraiswamy, 

Textile Commissioner, 


[No. 1(10) /65 Cottoft/1.] 
B. K. VARMA, Under Secy. 








8o 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1 965 / P HA LC UN A 8, 1886 [Part II 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing- Area) 

ORDERS 

Mew Delhi , the 1st January , 1985 

S.O. 683. — Whereas M/s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, B2-B, Industrial 
Estate, Ludhiana or any bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause, against Notice No. JCC.I/I(CLA)/627/G3/30B, dated 
18th June 1964 proposing to cancel licences Nos. (1) P/SS/1523687/C/XX/ 
18/C-D/17-18, dated 31st March 1964 for Graphite Crucibles for Rs. 375 (2) 
A 571340/62, dated 21st February 1963 for Asbestos Insulation Board for Rs. 1407 

(3) A 569996/62, dated 18th March 1963 for German Silver Scrap for Rs. 1,650 

(4) P/SS/1532047/C/XX/18/C-D/ 17-18, dated 15th April 1964 for German Silver 

Scrap for Rs. 2,570 (5) P/SS/1532337/C/XX/18/C-D/17-18, dated 18th April, 1964 
for Acrylic Plastic sheets for Rs. 1,700 (6) A 570967/62, dated 26th February 1963 
for Acrylic Plastic Sheets for Rs, 2,188 (7) A 570963/62, dated 28th February 1963, 
for Polyethelene Moulding Powder of High Density for Rs. 875. (8) A 573493/62, 
dated 29th January 1963 for Tapper Roller Bearings for Rs. 700 (9) A 573496/62, 
dated 29th January 1963, for Ball Bearings for Rs. 1,406 (10) P/SS/J 532841/C/ 
XX/C-D/18, dated 5th May 1964 for Tapper Roller Bearings for Rs. 125 (11) 
P/SS/1532511/C/XX/18/C-D/18, dated 19th April 1964, for Raw material for 
Gang Condencors for Rs. 2,500 (12) D 2464905, dated 13th February 1963, for 
Rotary Switches with Porcelain Base for Hot plates for Rs. 1,875 (13) A 574761/62, 
dated 3rd December 1962 for Thermostat Electric control for Rs. 2,255 (14) 
A 569884/62, dated 3rd April 1963, for Jewel Lights for Rs. 702 (15) A 574760/62, 
dated 31st December 1962 for Heating Elements for Rs. 2,250 (16) A 574787/62. 
dated 21st April 1963, for Radio Parts for Rs. 3,562 (17) A 574735/62, dated 2nd 
January 1963, for Nicrome Wire for Rs. 585 (18) P/SS/1532514/C/XX/18/C-D/1B, 
dated 19th April 1964 for Insulation Tester etc. for Rs. 1,100 (19) P/SS/1532290/ 
C/XX/18/C-IJ/18, dated 18th April, 1964 for Nicrome Wire for Rs. 1,053 (20) 
P/SS/1523974/C/XX/18/C-D/17-18, dated 31st. March 1964 for Thermostat 
■Electric Control for Rs. 4,250 (21) P/SS/1532153/C/XX/18/C-D/18, dated 10th 

April 1964, for Jewel Lights for Rs, 702 (22) P/SS/1532510/C/XX/18/C-D/17-18, 
dated 19th April 1964 for raw material for band Switches for Rs, 3,000 (23) 
P/SS/1532293/C/XX/18/C-D/18 for Radio Parts for Rs. 6,750, dated 18th April 
1964 (24) A 571212/02/D/AU5 Annual, dated 25th February 1963 for Rs. 567 for 
the Import of Adjustable Hand Reamers granted to said M/s. Guru Nanak Metal 
Engg. Works, 82 Industrial Estate, Ludhiana by the Dy./ Joint Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports (Central Licensing Area) Janpath Barracks ‘B’ New 
Delhi Government of India In the Ministry of Commerce in exercise of the powers 
conferred by the Clause 9 of the Import. (Control) Order 1955. hereby cancel the 
said licences as mentioned above issued to M/s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, 
82-B, Industrial Estate, Ludhiana. 

[No. JCC.I/I(CLA)/627/63/3664.J 


New Delhi, the 7th January, 1965 

8.0. 684.— Whereas M/s. Gold Stone Industries, 78,-F and 79-F, Kamla Nagar, 
Subzi Mandi, Delhi or any Bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause, against Notice No. JCC, I/I(CLA) /46/64/3200 dated 
1st December 1964 proposing to cancel licence No. A 570814/62/D/ AU VI/' Annual 
dated 16th March 1963 for import of Polyethlene Moulding Powder for Rs. 1026/- 
granted to said M/s. Gold Stone Industries, 7B-F and 79-F, Kamla Nagar, Subzi- 
mandi, Delhi by the Dy./Jolnt Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, (Central 
Licensing Area) Janpath Barracks ‘B’ New Delhi, Govt, of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce in exercise of the Powers conferred by the Clause 9 of the Import 
(Control) Order 1955, hereby cancel the said licence No. A 570814/62/D/ AU-VI/ 
Annual dated 16th March 1963, issued to M/s. Gold Stone Industries, 78-F and 
79-F, Kamla Nagar, Subzimandi, Delhi, 


[No. JCC.I/I(CLA) /40/64/3821 (A) .] 
New Delhi, the 18 th January, 1965 

S.O. 685, — Whereas M/s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, 82, Industrial 
Estate, Ludhiana or any bank or any other person have not come forward 
furnishing sufficient cause, against Notice No. JCC.I/I(CLA)/627/63/2959. dated 
19t.h November 1964, proposing to cancel licence No. A 571212/62/D/AU5/Annual, 
dated 25th February 1963 for import of Adjustable Hand Reamers for Rs. 567 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 196S/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 803 


granted to said M/s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg. Works, 82, Industrial Estate, 
Ludhiana by the Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (Central Licensing 
Area) Janpath Barracks 'B‘ New Delhi Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce in exercise of the powers conferred by the clause 9 of the Import 
(Control) Order 1955, hereby cancel the said licence No. A 571212/62/D /AU5/ 
Annual, dated 25th February 1963 Rs. 567 for import of Adjustable Hand Reamers 
issued to M/s. Guru Nanak Metal Engg, Works, 82, Industrial Estate, Ludhiana. 

[No. JCC.I/I(CLA)/027/03/3997.] 
S. K. SEN, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

Ernakulam , the 20th, January 1965 

S.O. 686. — Whereas M/s. M. Paul Varghese & Co. (P) Ltd., Banerji Road, 
Ernakulam-1. or any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing 
sufficient cause against Notice No. 167-IV/l/ 2-83 /EPS dated the 23rd October 
1964 proposing to cancel licence No. P/EP/2245647/C/XX/18/C/E/18 dated 28th 
March 1964 for Rs. 2,50,000/- only for Import of High Quality Art Paper from 
General Area, granted by the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
Ernakulam, to the said M/s. M, Paul Varghese & Co. (P) Ltd., Banerji Road 
Ernakulam. 

The Government of India, in the Ministry of Commerce, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order 1955, hereby cancel 
the said licence No. P/EP/2245647/C/XX/18/C/E/18 dated 28th March 1964 
Issued to M/s. M. Paul Varghese & Co. (P) Ltd., Banerji Road, Ernakulam. 

[No. 157-IV/I /2-63/EPS.] 

P. MADHAVAN NAIR, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING 

New Delhi, the 18 th February 1965 

S.O. 687.— It is hereby notified that, in pursuance of clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) read with sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951 (41 
of 1951), Shrl Mohammad Yusuf, a member of the Lok Sabha, has been elected 
as a member of the Rajghat Samadhi Committee tn place of Her Highness 
Maharani Vijaya Raje Seindla of Gwalior, 

[No. 19/2/64-WI. I 


S.O. 688. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) 
of section 4 of the Rajghat Samadhi Act, 1951 (41 of 1951), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shri V. Vishwanathan,, Chief Commissioner, Delhi and 
Shri R. F. Isar. Joint Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing, as official mem- 
bers of the Rajghat Samadhi Committee, in place of Sarvashri Dharma Vlra and 
I'rem Krishen respectively and also appoints Shri V. Vishwanathan, Chief Com- 
missioner, Delhi, as the Chairman of the said Committee. 

The Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments In 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works, Housing 
and Supply No. 19/2/62-WI dated the 22nd August, 1902, namely: — 

In the said notification, 

(i) for the name of “Shri Dharma Vira’’ in the two places where it occurs, 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Shri V. Vishwanathan’’; 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 19G5/PHALCUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


(ii) for Item 2, Jhe following Item shall be substituted, namely:— 

"2. Shrl E. F. Isar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing”; 

(ill) for the entry ‘‘Her Highness Maharani Vijaya Raje Scindia of Gwalior”, 
the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Shri Mohammad Yusuf”. 

[No. 19/2/04-WI.] 
S. CHAUDHURI, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 20th February 1S65 

S.O. 689. — 1» exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section [2) of section 1 
of the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Amendment Act, 1984 (48 of 

1984), the Central Government hereby appoints the 27th day of February, 1965 as 
the date on which the said Act shall come Into force. 

[No. 11/2/65-HI. ] 
V. K. HARURAY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 17th February 1965 

S.O. 696. — In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com- 
missioner by Sub-Section (2) of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) 
Supplementary Act, 1954 (XII of 1954), he hereby delegates to S/Shri N. P. 
Jaisinghani, Assistant Settlement Commissioner, Indore & Patna (region and 
J. D. Jain, Competent Officer, Delhi with immediate effect the following powers 
of the Chief Settlement Commissioner: — 

1. Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass order in the case under proviso to Sub-Section (3) 
of Section 4 of the said Act. 

2, Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect of 

cases decided under the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1950 (44 of 
1950). 

[No. ll-A(3)AI-60/ARG.] 
G. D. KSHETRAPAL, 

Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 12 th February 1965 

S.O. 691, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government after consulta- 
tion writh the Central Board of Film Censors, hereby appoints Shri Asbls Barman 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with Immediate 

eff6Ct ' [No. 11/3/ 02-FC.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 12 th February 1965 

S O. 692. — In the Notification of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.O. 126, dated the 26th December, 1964, published at page 143 in Part II— 
Section 3— Sub-Section (11) of the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 9th 
January 1965, in the last line of Notification for “10th September, 1964 please 
read “26th December, 1964”, 

[No. U(4)/03-FC.] 
R. B. SINHA, Under Secy. 



•Srx. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 19G5/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 18th February 1965 

S.O. 693. — In pursuance of the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of section 
17A of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
specifies a period of three months as the period within which the amount of 
accumulations to the credit in the Fund under the said Act of an employee em- 
ployed in an establishment to which the aforesaid Act applies, leaves his employ- 
ment and obtains re-employment in another establishment to which the same does 
not apply shall, if the employee so desires and the rules in relation to that provi- 
dent fund permit such transfer, be transferred to the credit of his account In the 
provident fund of the establishment in which he is re-employed, 

[No. 13/17/64/PF-II.] 
S. A. AHMAD, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 17 th February 1965 

S.O. 694. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Babisole Colliery Post Office Ondal, District Burdwan, and 
their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the 12fch 
February, 1965. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 45 of 1964 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Babisole Colliery, and 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri L. P, Da ve— Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of employers . — Shri K. N. Choudhury, Manager, Babisole Colliery. 

O n behalf of workmen . — Shri K, Roy, Vice-President, Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, 

Asansol. 

State : West Bengal. Industry : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour & Employment, by their order 
No. 6/58/04-LRII, dated 25th July, 1964, have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Babisole Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the question whether the action of the management in 
stopping Sarvashri Garib Paswan and Bandhu Louri, Quarry trammers, from 
work with effect from the 3rd June, 1964 and Shr' Ankal Mondal, quarry tram- 
mer, v/ith effect from the 3 1st May, 1964 is justified and if not, to what relief 
they are entitled for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

2. After the parties had filed their written statements, the matter was fixed 
Tor hearing and was adjourned more than once for different reasons. Ultimately 
when the matter came up for hearing before me today, the parties, after some 
discussions, settled the matter amicably and filed a memorandum of settlement, 
copy appended herewith. 

3. The dispute relates to three quarry trammers who are S3id to have been 
stopped from work by the management. Under the terms of compromise, all 
the three workmen are to be reinstated; they are to be given jobs first either 
os quarry loaders or miners, but they would be taken as trammers whenever 
there are vacancies. The management have also agreed to pay them three 
months’ salary as ex-gratia payment. In my opinion, the compromise is fair 
and reasonable. I accept it. 

I therefore pass an Award in terms of the compromise. 


3th February, 1965. 


L. P, Dave, 
Presiding Officer. 



g 0 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHA t.GUNA 8, 1886 [Paht II— 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 

Reference No. 45 of 1964 


Employers in relation to Babisole Colliery. 

AND 


Their workmen. 


The parties discussed the matters and came to the following agreement: — 

1. That the three workmen namely Shri Akkal Mondal, Shri Garil Paswan, 

and Shri Bandhu Bauri who were working as trammers -will be 
reinstated and the management will take them back within 23rd 
February. They will be taken back as soon as they report for duty. 

2. They will be given jobs of either quarry loaders or miners at first but 

whenever there Is vacancy for trammers, they will be taken. The 
seniority of service of other trammers will be taken into consideration, 

3. The period of unemployment will be treated as period of leave without 

pay and they will be paid salary of three months each as ex-gratla. 


There will be no orders as to costs, 
kindly be given to this effect. 

K. Roy, 

Vice President, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Asansol. 

Dated 8th February, 1965. 


The parties pray that an award may 

K. N. Choudhury, 
Manager, 
Babisole Colliery, 
8-2-1966. 

(No. 6/58/64-LR.II.J 


New Delhi, the 18 th February 1965 

S.O. 695. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act, from Sarvashri Scomari, M.C. Loader and others Jealgora Colliery 
Post Office Jealgora, which was received by the Central Government on the 11th 
February 1965. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INUDSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

In the matter of a Complaint under Sec. 33A of the Industrial Disputes, Act,. 
1947 (XIV of 1947). 

Complaint No. 3 of 1964 
(Arising out of Reference No. 1 of 1964) 

Parties : 

1. Sri Seomari (E.B. No. 7528) M. C. Loader. 

2. Sri Chhota Ramdeo (E.B. No. 12073) M. C. Loader. 

3. Sri Mewa Lai (E.B. 12424) M. C. Loader. 

4. Sri Jadunandar Rajbhar E.B. 12101 M. C. Loader. 

5. Sri Ganeah E.B, 612175 M, C. Loader, 

6. Sri Kuleshwar E.B, 15065 M, C. Loader. 

7. Sri Deoraj E.B. 90324 M. C. Loader. 

8. Sri Kallash E.B. 15070 M. C. Loader. 

9. Sri Sagina E.B, 92342 M. C. Loader. 

10. Sri Nibhul E.B. 7635 M. C. Loader. 

11. Sri Ramrhandra E.B. Wo. 7737 M. C. Loader. 

12. Sri Jagardeo E.B. 12380 M. C, Loader, 

13. Sri Surat E.B. 91600 M. C. Loader. 

14. Sri Seopujan E.B. 7362 M. C. Loader. 

15. Sri Manhoo E.B. 5893 M. C, Loader. 

16. Sri Kishore E.B. 1398 M. C, Loader. 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 


17. Sri Gobordhan E.B. 15607 Prop Mazdoor, 

18. Sri Chanderdeo E.B. 5168 M. C. Loader. 

19. Sri Bisnath E.B. 5825 M. C, Loader. 

20. Sri Bhlku E.B, 90013 M. C. Loader. 

21. Sri Bipat E.B, 12411 M. C. Loader. 

22. Sri Hetoo E.B, 12066 M. C. Loader. 

23. Sri Rameshwar E.B. 15743 Loco Helper. 

C/o. 

Secretary, Khan Mazdoor Congress, P.O, Jharia, Dt. Dhanbad — Complainants . . 

Vs. 

Employers in relation to Jealgora Colliery, M/s. East Indian Coal Co. Ltd.. 
P.O. Jealgora — -Opposite Party . 

Present : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L., Presiding Officer. 

Appearances ; 

For the Complainants — Sri B. Lai, Advocate, for complainants as Secretary, 
Khan Mazdoor Congress. 

For the Company Opposite Party — Sri J. N. P. Sahi, Assistant C.L.O. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 8th February, 1965 
AWARD 

Shri B. Lai, Advocate, lor complainants as Secretary ot the Union appears for 
complainants. Sri J. N, P, Sahi, Assistant Chief Labour Officer of the^ company 
appears for the opposite party. Copy of written statement made overby Shri 
Sahi to Sri Lai today In court. Shri Sahi applies for time. Sri Lai objects and 
presses for cost. Twenty complainants out of 23 are present. Subsequently, Shri 
Sahi raised preliminary objection to the maintainability of the complaint on the 
ground that these complainants were not ‘workmen concerned’ within Section 
33(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. in Reference No. 1 of 1964 In which 
this complaint had been filed and therefore on this preliminary ground the com- 
plaint should be dismissed. Realising this difficulty, Shri B. Lai, on behalf of the 
Union representing the workmen concerned filed a petition "for permission to 
withdraw the complaint with liberty to move the Central Government for reference 
of the dispute under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act. In these 
circumstances, the complainants are permitted to withdraw the complaint, 

The complaint is accordingly withdrawn. This is the award made in this 
case. 


Dhanbad, dated the 8th February, 1965. 


Sd,/- Raj Kishore Prasad, 

Presiding Officer, 


Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

[No. 2/68/63-LR.II.l 


New Delhi, the 19th February 1965 

S.O. 696. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an Industrial 
Dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Pakher Bauxite Mine of 
Messrs Aluminium Corporation of India Limited, Post Office Lohardaga, District 
Ranchi and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in tfie Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7 a of the said Act, 



■8o8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 J9G5/PHALGUNA R, 188G [Part II- 


Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of the Pakher Bauxite Mine of Messrs. 
Aluminium Corporation of India Limited, Post Office Lohardaga in dismissing 
Shri S. K. Zabooruddln a piece rated workman is justified? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled? 

[No. 24/6/ 05-LR-I.] 

New Delhi, the 20 th February 1905 

S.O. 697. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Rajanka Limestone Quarries of Messrs. Associated Cement Companies 
Limited, Jhinkpani and their workmen which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 8th February, 1965. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

In the matter of a Reference under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47), 


Reference No. 69 of 1964 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Rajanka Limestone Quarries of Messrs. Associated 
Cement Companies Limited, Jhinkpani 

AND 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M.A., B.L., — Presiding Officer. 

.Appearances : 

For the Employers : — Shri Ranen Roy, Advocate, Patna High Court, Shri B N 
Jha, Personnel & Welfare Officer. 

For the Workmen : — Sarvashree U. P. Sinha, Vice President, J N, Thakur, Vice 
President and A. K. Roy, General Secretary; Chaibasa 
Cement Workers’ Union, 

State: Bihar Industry; Limestone Quarry, 

Dhanbad, dated the 2nd January, 1965 
AWARD 

Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India, by its Order 
Mo. 22/22/64-LR. II dated the 22nd June, 1964 referred under Section 10(l)(d) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’) to this Tri- 
bunal for adjudication, an industrial dispute existing between the employers i» 
relation to the Rajanka Limestone Quarries of Messrs. Associated Cement Com- 
.panies Limited, Jhinkpani, and their workmen, in respect of the matters specified 
below; 

Schedule 

“(a) Whether the management of Associated Cement Companies Limited, 
Jhinkpani, was justified in terminating the services of the following 
26 workmen of Rajanka Limestone Quarry from the 24th February 
1964? If not. to what relief are they entitled? 


S. No. 

Name 

Ticket No. 

1 . 

Shri Kandey Hansda 

T. 149 

2, 

Shri Dasru Naik 

T. 150 

3. 

Shri Abhiram Purty 

T. 151 

4, 

Shri Jagram 

T. 152 

5. 

Shri Turam Munda 

T. 153 

0 . 

Shri Mangal Singh 

T. 154 



9k. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALCUNA 8, 1886 809- 


S, N'o. 

Name 

Ticket No. 

7. 

Shri Singrai Hessa 

T. 155 

8. 

Shrl Nitu Hessa 

T. 156 

9. 

Shrl Bhaskoro Gowala 

T. 157 

10. 

Shri Jagarnath 

T, 158 

11. 

Shri Parkrai Deogam 

T, 160 

12. 

Shri Mangru Khandait 

T. 166 

13. 

Shri Nawru Balmuchu 

T, 167 

14. 

Shrl Udai Balmuchu 

T. 168 

15. 

Shrl Selai Balmuchu 

T. 169 

16. 

Shri Pachai 

T. 170 

17. 

Shri Suraj Khandait 

T. 171 

18. 

Shri Pandu Khandait 

T. 172 

19. 

Shri Dimbi Hessa 

T. 173 

20. 

Shri Radha Krishna Hesda 

T. 174 

21. 

Shrl Nazir Nagi 

T. 175 

22, 

Shri Kurpa Hesda 

T. 176 

23. 

Shrl Gulia Hesda 

T. 178 

24. 

Shri Arjoon Das 

T. 179 

25. 

Shri Golaram 

T. 180 

26, 

Shri Sanatan Das 

T. 181 


(b) Whether these twentysix workmen were rightly designated as temporary 
by the management in accordance with the condition laid down in 
item 3(111) of the Standing Orders of R’ajanka Limestone Quarry? If 
not, to what relief were they entitled?” 

2. The company filed its written statement, which it called counter-statement, 
on 30th September 1964 The Chaibasa Cement Workers’ Union, Jhinkpani, through 
its General Secretary, Sri A. K. Roy, submitted a statement of claim, on behalf of 
the concerned workmen, on 5th October 1064. The company, thereafter, on 18th 
November 1964 filed a rejoinder to the statement of claim of the Union, 


3 The main case of the Union was that the 26 Quarry workers, whose services 
were terminated with effect from 24th February 1964 by the management were 
employed by the management for raising limestone and for removal of overburden 
which is a continuous and permanent operation in the quarries and they were 
employed by the company on 25th May 1963 but their services were extended from 
time to time till they were finally terminated on 24th February 1964; that these 
concerned workmen were engaged in the mineral raising of the limestone, which is 
about 35 per cent of the total daily raising of limestone, which is bound to continue 
so long as the whole raising operation of the company is not mechanised and, in 
these circumstances, the company could have easily absorbed these 26 workers also 
after 24th February 1964 in view of the capacity of its Factory but the same was 
not done and the company dispensed with the services of these workers in order to 
debar them from becoming permanent labourers as otherwise they would have been 
benefited by annual provident fund, etc,, as permanent employees; that the raising 
of limestone and the removal of overburden, for which these concerned workmen 
were engaged, being a continuous feature connected with the manufacturing pro- 
cess of the company there was no likelihood of the closure of the mineral operation 
of the raising of limestone on 24th February 1964, but the management deliberately 
terminated the services of these workers mala fide. 

4. The defence of the company was that it no doubt discharged these 26 workers 
and that thev were engaged in the removal of overburden and other works con- 
nected with this and at times also engaged in raising of limestone but this did not 
mean that they were required after 24th February 1902 and as these workers had 
become surplus, with the completion of the work of the overburden and removal of 
overburden, the permanent workers of D Block had to be provided and so these 
temporary workers were dispensed with, and as such they were not entitled to any 
relief. 


'8)0 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY Z1 1965/1’IIALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


5. No witness was examined by any of the two parties, but both the parties filed 
documents in support of their respective cases. Documents of both parties were 
marked, with mutual consent, as exhibits and, accordingly, documents filed by the 
company were marked Exhibits M to M. 11 and documents filed by the workmen 
were marked Exhibits W to W. 75. 


6. On 25th November 1904 when the case was taken up at the request of the 
parties at Patna, Sr) E’anen Roy, Advocate of the Patna High Court, and Sri B. Jha, 
Personnel Officer and Welfare Officer of the Company, appeared for the company. 
Sarvashri A, K. Roy, General Secretary of the Union and Satlsh Roy, Member of 
the Union, appeared for the workmen concerned. Sri Ranen Roy finished his argu- 
ments on 25th November 1964 and at the request of the workmen’s representatives 
their argument was fixed for next date,- that is, on 26th November 1964, but, un- 
fortunately, the General Secretary of the Union, Sri A. K. Roy, was taken ill, and, 
therefore, on his petition for time the case was adjourned on 26th November 1904 
and, ultimately, it was fixed for hearing on 30th December 1964 at Dhanbad with 

■ the consent of both parties. 

Preliminary Objections 

7. Sri Ranen Roy took a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the 
Reference Itself on the ground that the Reference under Section 10(1) (d) of the Act 
by the Central Government was invalid in as much as the State Government was 
the ‘appropriate Government’ under Section 2(a)(i) of the Act as admittedly the 

"Company’s Factory is situated at Chaibasa in the State /if Bihar, and, therefore, the 

quarry also, even if it is a mine, should be deemed to be under the State Govern- 
ment, and, as such the State Government was the ‘appropriate Government’ to 
make the reference, 

Sri Ranen Roy developed his argument by contending that the State Govern- 
ment was the ‘Appropriate Government’ under Section 2(a)(i) of the Act for two 
reasons: First, that a limestone quarry is not a mine within the meaning of Sec- 
tion 2(a)(1) of the Act. and. Second, that a quarry is not an independent concern 
hut a department of the Factory. 

Section 2(a) of the Act defines the expression ‘appropriate Government’ in these 

■ terms : 


“2. (a) 'appropriate Government’ means — 

(i) in relation to anv industrial dispute concerning any industry carried on 

by or under the authority of the Central Government or by a railway 
company (or concemmR any such controlled Industry as may be speci- 
fied in this behalf by the Central Government) or m relation to an 
industrial dispute concerning (a banking or an insurance company, a 
mine, an oil-field) or a major port, the Central Government, and 

(ii) in relation to any other industrial dispute, the (State) Government;” 

The question, therefore, is whether a limestone quarry is a ‘mine’ within the 
meaning of Section 2(a)(1) of the Act reproduced above. It was conceded by 
Sri Ranen Rov that a limestone quarry is a ‘mine under The Mines Act, 195 , 
(Act 35 of 1952). The word ‘mine has been defined in Section 2(j) of the Mines 
Act, 1952, and its material portion Is as follows; 

‘">(D ‘mine’ means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of 
' searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on, 
and includes 


From the above definition of ‘mine’ as given in Section 2 (j), ‘mine’ means any 
excavation where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining 
minerals has been or is being carried on and includes what is i specified in ^b-sec- 
tions (1) to (vi). The word ‘Minerals’ has been defined in Section 2 (jj) in The 
Mines (Amendment) Act. 1959 wherein it has been added subsequently to the Mines 
Act, 1952 by the Mines (Amendment) Act 1959 (Act 62 of 1959), Section 20]) rea . 
thus : 

“2(ii) ‘minerals’ means all substances which can be obtained from the earth 
( ” by mining digging, drilling, dredging, hydraul cmg quarrying or by 
any other operation and includes mineral oils (which in turn include 
natural gas and petroleum);” 

-‘gectfnn 2(i) of the Act of 1952 was also amended by the Mines (Amendment) Act. 
IS? Which came into force on 16th January 1960 by which a new Section 20) was 



Sue. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, I965/P1IALGUNA 8, 1886 gll 


substituted for the old Section 2(j). The material portion of the newly substituted 
Section 2(j) of the Mines (Amendment) Act, 1969 is in these terms: 

“2(j). ‘mine’ means any excavation where any operation for the purpose of 
searching for or obtaining minerals has been or is being carried on, 
and includes .... 

* * * * 

(iv) all open cast workings;” 

The expression “open cast working” has also been defined in Section 2(kk) by 
the Mines (Amendment) Act, 1959. It reads thus: 

"2. (kk). ‘open cast working’ means a quarry, that is to say, an excavation 
where any operation for the purpose of searching for or obtaining 
minerals has been or is being carried on, not being a shaft or an 
excavation which extends below superjacent ground”, 

Reading therefore, Section 2(j) (iv) along with Section 2(jj) and Section 2(kk) it 
is plain that a ‘quarry’ is a ‘mine’ within the meaning of Section 2 (a) (i) of the Act. 

8. On behalf of the workmen, reliance was placed on Item 8 ‘Limestone’ under 
the Second Schedule to Section 9 of The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and 
Develomnent) Act, 1957 (Act 87 of 1957). which deals with payment of royalties! in 
respect of mining leases. Section 9(1) lays down that the holder of mining tease 
shall pay royalty in respect of any mineral removed by him from the leased area 
at the rate for the time being specified in the Second Schedule in respect of that 
mineral and Second Schedule Item 8 deals with ‘Limestone’. This also, therefore, 
supports the contention of the workmen that 'limestone quarry’ is a ‘mine’ within 
the meaning of section 2(a)(1) of the Act. 

Reliance was also placed, on behalf of the workmen, on Section 2(18) of the 
Metalliferous Mines Regulations. 1961, which were made under Section 57 of the 
Mines Act, 1952 (Act 35 of 1952) by the Central Government. Regulation 2 con- 
tains definitions and it defines in Regulation 2(18) “metalliferous mine” which 
■‘‘includes every mine other than a coal or an oil mine.” This also, therefore, sup- 
ports the contention of the workmen that ‘limestone quarry’ is a ‘mine’ as envisaged 
by Section 2(a)(i) of the Act, 

9. For the reasons given above, I am satisfied that there Is no merit in the con- 
tention of Mr. Ranen Roy and, therefore, the first ground of his preliminary objec- 
tion is over-ruled. I, therefore, hold that a limestone quarry is a ‘mine’ within the 
meaning of Section 2(a)(i) of the Act. 

10. The second ground of Sri Ranen Roy, as indicated earlier, is that the Limes- 
tone Quarry is a department, of the Cement Factory of the Company and not an 
independent concern and, as such, It is a part and parcel of the cement Factory 
itself and the Cement Factory being admittedly situated at Chaibasa within the 
jurisdiction of the State Government, which is the ‘appropriate ‘Government’ In 
respect of the Factory, the quarry also, even If it is a mine, should be held to be 
under the State Government, and, therefore, on this ground also, the State Govern- 
ment should be held to be the 'appropriate Government’ in respect of this quarry. 
In support of his contention, Shri Ranen Roy relied on a decision of the Supreme 
Court of India in Associated Cement Companies Limited ( Chibasa Cement Works.- 
Jhinkpani ) Vs. Their workmen, 1960 (I) L.L.J. 1, I do not think that this decision 
of the Supreme Court at all supports Shri Ranen Roy, This case is of the same 
company with which we are concerned here. In that case, S. K. Das J, speaking 
for the Court, at page 13. held that the limestone quarry at Rajanka and the Fac- 
tory at Jhinkpani constituted one establishment within the meaning of Clause (Ili) 
of Section 25E of the Act and were not separate establishments. Similar Is the 
case here. The just mentioned decision of the Supreme Court, therefore, supports 
the workmen. 

In this connection, on behalf of the workmen, reliance was placed on paras 2(a), 
2(b) and 2(d) of the Standing Orders of the Company Exhibit W. 22. Para 2(a) 
defines a ‘Worker’ as follows: 

“2(a). 'worker' means all work people male or female employed in the 
quarries or in occupations connected with the work of quarries whose 
names are bome in the Schedule ‘A’ Register under the Mines Act, 
1952”, 

Para 2(b) defines ‘Quarries’ which “means the Rajanka Limestone Quarries, 
Jhinkpani.” 

Para 2(d) defines ‘Agent’ which means “the company’s Agent for the quarries 
under the Mines Act and Includes Acting Agent.” 



812 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1903/PHALGUNA 8, 1886 [Part II- 


These Standing Orders are for the workers of Rajanka Limestone Quarries under 
the Associated Cement Companies Limited. This also supports that the limestone 
quarry and the cement factory constitute one establishment. 

I would, therefore, reject the Second ground also for contending that the State 
Government is the ‘Appropriate Government’ within the meaning of Section 2(a)(1) 
of the Act in respect of the present dispute, 

11. For the reasons given above, I hold that the ‘appropriate Government’ to 
refer the dispute was the Central Government, as contemplated by Section 2(a)(1) 
ol the Act, and, as such, the reference made by the Central Government under 
ejection 10(1) (cl) of the Act is perfectly valid. 

Merit : 

12. On merit the only question is whether the termination of the services of 26 
workmen concerned with effect from 24th February 1964 was justified, For decid- 
ing this question it is necessary to state briefly the material facts relied upon by 
both the parties. These facts are as below: 

On 18 th May 1963 the Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works Issued a notice 
Exhibit M. 4 Inviting applications for few temporary posts of mazdoort for quarries 
and mentioned therein that only candidates who had worked with the company in 
the past with good records and those who had given land to the company need 
apply, 

On 25th July, 1963. — Parkrai Deogam workman concerned, No. 11, was given a 
letter of appointment Exhibit W. 24 to the effect that the management was pleased 
to appoint him as a temporary mazdoor in connection with the temporary work for 
a period of three months from 23rd May, 1963, to 22nd August, 1963, at their Chai- 
basa Cement Works Rajanka Limestone Quarries on the terms and conditions 
mentioned therein. Two of the conditions mentioned therein ere important and 
may be mentioned here as they have been specifically relied upon by both parties. 
Condition No. 1 was that the appointment was purely temporary and the appointee 
can be discharged at any time without notice or compensation or assigning any 
reason whether on completion of the work for which he was engaged or earlier and 
he will remain a temporary workman until and unless he was made nermanent by 
order in writing by the company, whether he was working on the same temporary 
job on which he was engaged or some other job in the same department - some 
other department on the temporary or permanent work. Condition No, 4 was that 
the Rules of the company or decisions of Governmental Authorities or Awards of 
Tribunals or Agreements with the Union, which are or will be applicable to perma- 
ment employees will not be applicable to him by right but the company may in their 
absolute discretion apply any of them wholly or in part for any length of time to 
the employee concerned. It was conceded by both parties t’ at all the other 25 
workmen concerned were given letters of appointment on the same terms and con- 
ditions as mentioned in Exhibit W. 24. 

I may mention here that 1 am referring only to those documents which have been 
relied upon by the parties although the workmen filed as many as 75 documents 
but they did not refer to or rely on more than 3 or 4 documents. 

Exhibit M. 11. — gives the names of the 26 workmen concerned with the dates of 
their appointment as entered in B register and the number of days they worked as 
given in D register. From Exhibit M. 11 it will appear that none of these 26 work- 
men worked for 240 days, The services of these 24 workmen were terminated 
admittedly on 24th February, 1964. 

Exhibit M. 7. — Mentions the names of 24 workers and the number of days for 
which they worked and their total earnings in limestone and total earnings on over- 
burden work. 

Exhibit M. 6,— is a graph to show that overburden work done upto a certain 
neriod in 1962-63 was more as compared with 1961-62 in order to show that a new 
quarry was to be started and, therefore, overburden was really, essentially done by 
the workmen concerned and limestone work was only incidental. 

On behalf of the company reliance was placed on para 3 of the Standing Orders 
Exhibit W. 22 where a Temporary worker has been defined in order to show that 
these 26 workmen concerned were engaged for work essentially of temporary nature 
and lively to be finished in a limited period and as such they were issued temporary- 
tickets and entered in schedule B register as temporary workers. 

13. Relying on the above facts, it was contended, on behalf of the company, that 
the service? of the concerned workmen were terminated m terms of their employ- 
ment on 24th February, 1964, and as such they were not entitled to any relief. It "was 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, J965/PIIALGUNA 8, 1886 gjj 


further contended, on behalf of the Company, that no doubt, according to the defini- 
tion of ‘retrenchment’, as Riven in Section 2(oo) of the Act, “retrenchment means 
the termination by employer of the service of a workman for any reason whatso- 
ever, otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by way disciplinary action,” but, in 
the present case, It was not retrenchment as their services were terminated in terms 
of their employment, and, as such, retrenchment procedure was not applicable. In 
support of the contention that the termination of the services of the workmen con- 
cerned did not amount to retrenchment, reliance was placed on a decision of the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal in Balkrishna Ganpat Vs. Ruston and Hornsby (India) 
Ltd., Bombay, 1956(f) L.L.J. 599 in which it was held that there was no obligation 
on the company to retain an apprentice for a particular period after the expiry of 
the contracted period and if the management intimated to the apprentice that his 
service would be no longer required after the expiry of the contracted 
period such action of the management could not be considered to amount to 
‘retrenchment', and, as such, he could not claim any retrenchment compensation 
under Section 25F of the Act. 

In the alternative, it was contended that if it was retrenchment even then the 
workmen concerned were not entitled to any compensation under Section 25F of 
the Act because under Section 25F of the Act the condition precedent to being 
entitled to get retrenchment is that he must have been in continuous service for not 
less than one year which is not the position in the present case. One year of con- 
tinuous service has been defined in Section 25B of the Act which provides that 
during the period of 12 calendar months a workman must have actually worked in 
an industry for not less than 240 days in order to complete one year’s service in 
the industry- and these conditions not being present in the instant case none of the 
workmen were entitled to retrenchment compensation, For these reasons it was 
argued the procedure for retrenchment provided for in Section 25G of the Act was 
not followed. 

On behalf of the workmen also it was conceded that their case was not a case 
of retrenchment. The question of retrenchment, therefore, does not arise for deci- 
sion, 

14. The case of the workmen was that they should be considered to be Perma- 
nent workmen as defined in para 3 (i) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W.22, because 
para 3(iii) which defines a Temporary worker had no application to them. It would 
be useful here to read Phra 3(iii) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W.22, which 
admittedly apply here. Para 3(iii) reads thus: 

“Para .’l(iii). — A “Temporary” worker is one who is engaged for work essen- 
tially of a temporary nature and likely to be finished in a limited period 
and issued a temporary ticket and whose name has been entered in 
Schedule ‘B’ Register as Temporary worker.”. 

Relying on the above definition, the contention of the workmen was that these 
workmen concerned were engaged for work which ions not “likely to he finished in 
a limited period", which is one of the essentials of para 3(iii) of Exhibit W.22, and, 
therefore, cannot he considered as Temporary workers. 

In order to support their contention that the work for which they were engaged 
was not “ likely to be finished in a limited period”, reliance was placed on Exhibits 
M. 7 and M. 9. Their contention was that the work, which they were doing, was of 
a permanent nature and not “of a temporary nature”, as contemplated by Standing 
Order No. 3(iii) of Exhibit W.22, in that, these concerned workmen were engaged 
in raising of limestone as will appear from exhibit M, 7 and also of removal of 
overburden as will appear from Exhibit M, 9 and these two kinds of work cannot be 
said to be “likely to be finished in a limited period”. To me also it appears that 
the stand taken by the workmen is correct, Admittedly these 26 workmen were 
engaged for raising of limestone as well as for removal of overburden. I cannot 
understand how then it can be said that the nature of this work was such that it 
was “likely to be finished in a limited period”, From the nature of the work there 
seems to be no doubt that the work was of a continuous and permanent operation 
in the quarries and the raising of limestone and the removal of overburden for 
which work admittedly these concerned workmen were engaged temporarily in the 
beginning being in the nature of a continuous feature connected with the manu- 
facturing process there was no likelihood of closure of the mineral operation of the 
raising of limestone and as such it must he held to be of a permanent nature. In 
this connection, reliance was placed, on behalf of the workmen, on a decision of the 
Supreme Court In Jaswant Sugar Mills Ltd. Meerut Vs. Badri Prasad and others 
1961(f) L.L.J. 649, in which Das Gupta J, who spoke for the Court, held that to be 
a permanent workman within the meaning of the Standing Orders of that case, it 
is not necessary that the workman should be engaged in work throughout the year 
bui what is necessary is that the work on which he is engaged is of a permanent 



g!^ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 1965/FHALGUNA 8, 1880 [Part IT- 


nature and lasts throughout the year. In that case the definition of a permanent 
workman in the Standing Orders was in these words: 

“A permanent workman is one who is engaged in a permanent nature of work 
throughout the year and has completed his probationary period, if any.” 

In the instant case, a permanent worker has been defined in para 3 (i) of the 
Standing Orders Exhibit W.22 as one whose name has been entered in Schedule A 
Register as a Permanent worker. Here admittedly the names of these workmen are 
not entered in Schedule A but in Schedule B as Temporary Workers, But the defini- 
tion of a temporary worker, in para 3(iii) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W.22 read 
above, clearly envisages inter alia, co-existence of two conditions, namely, ( 1 1 that 
the worker is engaged for work essentially of a temporary nature, and, (2) that 
such work is likely to be finished in a limited period. 

In the instant case, I do not think that these conditions existed. Simply because 
the company called these workmen as temporary -workers and treated them as such 
and issued appointments on that basis, in my opinion, will not he enough to destroy 
the rights of the workmen, The above show a mala fide intention of the manage- 
ment and nothing else. It is rather intriguing to find that the ompiovment of these 
workmen for instance, see Exhibits W2, W3, W.7, W8, W.10, W.15, W.16, W.18, 
W.I9 W.20 and W.23, was admittedly being extended from time to time, but all on 
a sudden, obviously to prevent them completing one year's continuous service (See 
Section 25B of the Act) their employments are terminated overnight. This action 
of the company is highly condemnable and not at all praiseworthy and certainly 
not conducive to industrial peace and harmony. 

In the present case, it was not contended, on behalf of the company that the 
work on which these workmen were engaged, is not of a permanent nature and 
that 'it did not last throughout the year. This position is admitted. 

For these reasons, it appears to me that these twentysix workmen must be con- 
sidered to be permanent workmen and not temporary workmen within the mean- 
ing of para 3(lii) of the Standing Orders Exhibit W.22, 

15. There is another aspect of the matter also. It appears from Exhibit W.25 
dated 28th September, 1964, a letter written by Manager of the company to the 
General Secretary of the Union, that with effect from 1st October, 1964, 135 tempo- 
rary workers of the Quarry, were taken on permanent roll by the company. It 
was admitted by both parties that 133 of them were senior to the 2G workmen con- 
cerned, but two of them were appointed on the same day as these workmen were 
appointed. In reply, it was contended, on behalf of the management, relying on 
Exhibit M.5, that these two workmen, namely. Chambru Hesa and Surja Gaur were 
given preference, and made permanent in terms of clause 7 of the Lease Exhibit 
M.8 and as such there was no question of violating the principle of ‘Last Come First 
Go’. This contention appears to be correct. 

Reference was also made to Exhibit W.72 which is a letter dated 1st November. 
1962 from the Agent to the General Secretary of the Union, in which in para 2 it 
was said that the temporary mazdoors when they were engaged were clearly told 
that they will have to load stones into the wagons, whether they load the stones 
on head-load or in Bhars, and, therefore if the mazdoors are willing to load stones 
into the wagons in Bhars the company have got no objection so long as they fulfil 
their duties for which they have been specially appointed, It was further said 
therein that these people were specially engaged for loading wagons in order to 
increase the output. This letter Exhibit W.72 also, therefore, snows that these 
concerned workmen could not have been engaged on such temporary work which 
was likely to be finished in a limited period. 

It was argued, in reply, by the management, that Exhibit W.72 has no applica- 
tion to the workmen concerned because this letter was written in 1962, whereas 
these workmen were appointed in 1963, and in 1962 they were not in service then 
That may be so, but Exhibit W.72 shows the nature of work which the so-called 
temporary mazdoors had to do. 

It was then argued on behalf of the workmen, relying on Exhibit W.73, which 
is a letter from the Manager to tho General Secretary of the Union, written on 15th 
March, 1963 relating to transportation and Shifting of materials, that the recom- 
mendations of the Wage Board could be applied onlv in respect of the job which is 
of a permanent nature, and, as such, recommendation of tne Wage Board has no 
application so far as the workers involved in such capital jobs are concerned. It 
was argued, on behalf of the workmen concerned, that as a matter of fact these 
26 workmen were getting wages according to the Wage Board recommendations and 
that also shows that they were treated ns permanent workers by the company, I 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/FHALGUNA 8, 1886 815 


t hink there is some force. In reply, however, it was pointed out, referring to 
Chapter XIV, at page 81 of the Wage Board, wherein summary of other recom- 
mendations is given by the Central Wage Board that in para 14‘8 it had itself 
directed the same wages etc. to be paid to all and, therefore, the wages fixed by the 
Wage Board were paid. I do not think much can be made of this. 


Reference was also made to Exhibit W. 26 in order to show that there was a Re- 
solution on Industrial Truce on 3rd November, 1962, where under para II (v) it 
was agreed between the parties that all complaints pertaining to dismissal, dis- 
charge, victimisation and retrenchment of individual workmen, not settled mutually 
should be settled by arbitration, but it was unfortunately not so in the present case 
and the management has violated the terms of industrial truce. This is a question 
of moral obligation only. 


Lastly, on behalf of the company reference was made to Exhibit W. 25, to which 
reference has already been made. It was argued that after appointment of 136 
workmen of quarry on permanent basis from 1st October, 1964. how can there be 
vacancies for these temporary workmen where these can be made permanent and 
continued in service? This is a point which, in my opinion, goes very much against 
the company and very much in favour of the workmen- I cannot understand if 
there is work for 135 workmen why there should be no work for 26 workmen. 
The stand of the management that there was work for 135 men and now there is 
no work for these 26 workmen concerned clearly goes to show the guilty mind of 
the company and prove its mala fide. 


16. For the reasons given above, termination of these 26 workmen concerned 
is declared to be mala, fide and illegal and set aside. 


17. In the result, the reference is answered by holding as below: 


(al That the management of Associated Cement Companies Limited, Jhinkpani, 
was not justified in terminating the services of the following 26 workmen of Rajanka 
Limestone quarry from the 24th February, 1864, and, therefore, their termination 
of services is set aside and they are reinstated to their previous jobs with full back 
wages and benefits: 


S. No. 

Name 

Ticket 

1 . 

Shri Kandey Hansda 

T. 149. 

2. 

Shri Dasru Naik. 

T. 150. 

3. 

Shri Abhiram Purty 

T. 151. 

4. 

Shri Jagram 

T. 152. 

5. 

Sbri Turam Munda 

T, 153 

6. 

Shri Mangal Singh 

T. 154 

7. 

Shri Singrui Hessa 

T. 155. 

8. 

Shri Nitu 'Hessa 

T. 156 

9. 

Shri Bhaskoro Gowala 

T. 157 

10. 

Shri Jagamath 

T. 158 

11 

Shri Parkrai Deogam 

T. 106 

12. 

Shri Mangru Khandait 

T, 166 

13. 

Shri Nawru Balmuchu 

T. 167 

14. 

Shri Udai Balmuchu 

T. 168 

15. 

Shri Selai Balmuchl 

T. 169 

16. 

Shri Pachai 

T. 170 

17. 

Shri Surai Kahndait 

T. 171 

18. 

Shri Pandu Kahndait 

T 17° 

19. 

Shri Dimbi Hessa 

T. 173 

26. 

Shri Radha Krishna Hesda 

T. 174 

21. 

Shri Nazir Nagi 

T. 175 

22, 

Shri Kurpa Hesda 

T. 176 

33. 

Shri Gulia Hesda 

T. 178 

24. 

Shri Arjoon Dass 

T. 179 

25. 

Shri Golaram 

T. 180 

26. 

Shri Sanatan Das 

r 181 




8l6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1963/PHALGUNA 2 * * * * * 8 * ,8B6 P'* RT II- 


(b) These 26 workmen were wrongly designated as temporary workmen by the 
company in accordance with the conditions laid down in item 3 (ill) of the Stand- 
ing Orders of the Rajanka Limestone Quarry Exhibit W. 22 as it does not apply to 
these workmen, and, therefore, these 26 workmen are entitled to be treated as 
permanent workers and are declared as such. 

18. This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India, 
under Section 15 of the Act. 

Dhanbad, 

Dated the 2nd January, 1965. 

Sd./- Raj Kishore Prasab, 
Presiding Officer 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

[No. 22 / 22/64-LR. I.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd February, 1965. 

S.O. 698— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1547 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri L. P. 
Dave, Arbitrator, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to 
the Kathara Colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the lfith Feb- 
ruary, 1966 


BEFORE SHRI L. P. DAVE, ARBITRATOR, CALCUTTA. 
Reference No. ABN-2/ 1964 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to Kathara Colliery of National Coal Development 
Corporation Ltd.. 

and 

Their workmen (Represented by Coal Workers’ Union, P.O. Girldih, Dlst. 
Hazaribagh) . 


Present: 

Shri L. P. Dave. — Arbitrator. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers . — Shri D. Narsingh, Advocate, Shri M. L. Gulhati, 
Group Personnel Officer. 

On behalf of workmen .- — Shri Chaturanan Mishra. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

An industrial dispute arose between the employers in relation to the Kathara 
colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., and their workmen 
represented by the Coal Workers Union, Giridih, mainly on the question whether 
the N.C.D.C. was justified in awarding loading work to a contractor. The parties 
agreed to refer the said dispute to me for arbitration. They signed an agreement 
to this effect under sub-section (1) of Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
and set it to the Government of India, who published it under sub-section (3) of 
the above section bv their order No. 8/123/64-LR.II dated 14th August, 1964, 

2 In response to notices issued by me, both the parties filed their written 

statements. The matter was then fixed for hearing. At that time, both parties 

admitted certain facts and requested me to visit and inspect the colliery and to 
verify and ascertain different facts by making oral equiries. They agreed that I 
need not make notes in writing and that 1 may act on the spot enquiries made by 

me Accordingly I visited and inspected the colliery, saw different places, heard 

several persons and ascertained different facts. Both parlies then stated that they 

did not want to lead any oral evidence. Arguments were thereafter heard and 1 

now proceed to give- my award in this case. 



Sec- 3(H)] THF. GAZETTE OF INDTA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/ THAI, GUNA fi, 1880 817 


3. Most of the facts in the case aie not in dispute. Originally the work of 
loading of coal in the Kathara colliery was being done by a contractor who used 
to employ his own labour for the same. In about September, 1963, the colliery 
abolished the contract system and started doing this work departmen tally. It 
appears that they took over the workmen who were working under the contractor 
and engaged them as their direct employees. From about 18th June, 1964, how- 
ever, the contract system was again introduced and the work of loading is being 
done thereafter by a contractor who employs his own workers for the same. The 
workers who had been engaged by the colliery as their direct employees have 
been discharged by the colliery; but the contractor has engaged them as his em- 
ployees. In other words, these workers at present arc not out of employment, but 
the workers’ case is that the colliery was not justified in re-introducing the con- 
tract system and that the workmen should be continued as the direct employees 
of the colliery. 

4. The Union mainly relies on the finding of a Court of Enquiry constituted by 
the Government to report among other things on the question whether the system 
of employment of labour through or by contractors and sub-contractors in the coal 
mining industry could be abolished without impairing productivity and if so, in 
which case of employment. While the proceedings were pending before the Court 
of Enquiry, the employers represented by their three main associations viz., Indian 
Mining Association, Indian Mining Federation and Indian Colliery Owners Associa- 
tion and the workers represented by their important labour organisations viz., 
Indian National Mine Workers’ Federation, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat, Colliery 
Mazdoor Congress, Hind Mazdoor Sabha and Indian Mine Workers Federation 
entered into a settlement. The National Coal Development Corporation Ltd., also 
subscribed to that agreement. Under this settlement, it was agreed that ali’ pro- 
cesses directly connected with the raising and despatch of coal should be the 
direct responsibility of the principal employer and all workers engaged therein 
were to be employees of the principal employer except in the seven categories 
mentioned in para 2 of the agreement. The court of Enquiry accepted this agree- 
ment and held that the said agreement should be accepted for the time being and 
that contract labour should be abolished as early as possible in all categories 
except those specifically referred to in para 2 of the agreement- 

5. The fourth category which was to be excluded under this agreement was 
“Coal loading and unloading, provided that the principal employer shall engage a 
nucleus of wagon and truck loaders to whom regular work can be guaranteed- the 
number of such nucleus to be reviewed quarterly”. This would mean that under 
the above agreement the work of loading and unloading could be given to con- 
tractors; but the employers were required to keep a nucleus of loaders to whom 
regular work could be guaranteed, 

6. Shri Chaturanan Misra, who appeared on behalf of the workmen firstly 
urged that having once abolished the contract system in loading and unloading 
the employers have no right to re-start that system. I do not think that any dis- 
tinction can be made between starting a system for the first time or continuing a 
system or restarting a system. Normally contract system has got to bo abolished 
and the employer should engage direct employees for all work relating to pro- 
cesses directly connected with the raising and despatch of coal It makes no 
difference whether the system is introduced for the first time or whether the 
system, which was already in vogue, had been abolished and was proposed to be 
started again. The important question would be whether the system is justified 
or not Irrespective of the fact whether it had been abolished or not earlier. 

7. The employers’ case isi that formerly the Indian Railways purchased large 
quantities of coal from tills colliery and a number of wagons was supplied regular- 
ly every day, and they required a number of loaders for this So also the Bokaro 
Thermal Power Station of the Damodar Valley Corporation used to purchase large 
quantities of coal and this coal was sent in trucks, and for this also, the colliery 
required loaders. Of (ate, however, the Railways have considerably reduced their 
orders, and the supply of wagons was reduced. It is also not regular. The Bokaro 
Power Station is also now not purchasing coal from this colliery. They have thus 
very little work for loaders, and that too, not regular. They now require loaders 
only occasionally; hence they cannot maintain a nucleus of loaders to whom work 
could be given regularly. Hence, they have given the work to a contractor. 

8. In support of their contentions, the employers have produced several state- 
ments, They go to show that formerly the railways used to purchase large 
quantities of coal from this colliery and a large number of railway wagons had 
been alloted every day. In the year 1961, the supply of wagons to this colliery 
was almost regular, in no month were less than 1,500 wagons supplied to the 



8x8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/ PHALGUNA B, 1886 [Part II- 


colliery; actually in one month the supply rose to as much as 2457, In 1962 also, 
the supply of wagons was quite satisfactory. In 1963 though the supply was 
satisfactory during the early months, it was not so during the later months. In 
this year, the supply fell to 1286 in the month of October. I also find that the 
supply was not regular- On several days, there was no supply of wagons at all. 
The position however became very bad in 1964. In the first four months, supply 
of wagons was 1444, 1101, 1491 and 1452 respectively, with no supply on several 
days. From May to October, the supply was 651, 738, 286, 502, 219 and 419 res- 
pectively. The number of days on which wagons were supplied was 8 in May, 8 
in June, 4 In July, 7 or 8 in August, 3 in September and 7 or 8 in October. 

9. There is thus great force in the contention of the employers that in view 
of this position they could not keep nucleus of wagon loaders to whom regular 
work could be guaranteed- The supply was erratic. The colliery required a 
number of loaders on the days on which the wagons were supplied; but they did 
not require any loaders on more than 20 days in a month. If, in the circumstances 
the employers thought it fit to get the work done by or through a contractor, f 
cannot say that it was not justified. To keep a large number of persons idle for 
a number of days in a month only to see that they get work for 7 or 8 days would 
certainly be uneconomic und not desirable. 

10. The employers have also produced statements showing supply of coal by 
road to the Bokaro Power Thermal Station day by day and month by month. They 
show not only that this supply of coal is not regular but that it is now almost 
stopped. Hence for this purpose also they do not require any nucleus of loaders 
to whom work can be given regularly. 

11. It has been alleged in the written statement of the union that “corruption 
has pervaded most of the State Undertakings, as a result of which the coal con- 
suming State undertakings like D.V.C. and the Railways are behaving in a way 
detrimental to the N.C..D.C.” The reply of the employers is that they are not 
aware of corrupt practices in the public sector undertakings. They have however 
admitted that the demand of the Damodar Valley Corporation and the Railways 
from Kathara colliery has substantially gone d own and the supply of wagons to the 
colliery had become very erratic. 

12. On my visit to the colliery, I found that the Bokaro Thermal Power Station 
was quite close to Kathara colliery. This power station belongs to the Damodar 
Valley Corporation, which is a Government of India undertaking. The Kathara 
colliery belongs to National Coal Development Corporation Ltd. which is also a 
Government of India undertaking. The thermal power station requires large quan- 
tities of coal and one would expect that they would take coal 'from the ffearest 
colliery as it would save them the cost of transport. The Damodar Valley Corpora- 
tion is not a party before me and I do not know the reasons which induced them 
to stop taking coal directly from the Kathara colliery, I would therefore not be 
justified in expressing any opinion on this point. But I do feel that appropriate 
'nithorities should make an enquiry in the matter. 

13. In this connection, I may mention that though the thermal power station 
does not take coal directly from Kathara colliery, it takes coal produced by Kathara 
colliery. It gives orders to contractors who purchase some coal from the Kathara 
colliery and supply it to the thermal power station. In other words, the Kathara 
coal does not appear to be of a quality unacceptable to the thermal power station, 

14. I may also refer here to some correspondence between the officers of the 
Damodar Valley Corporation and the National Coal Development Corporation. It 
appears therefrom that, the Damodar Valley Corporation officers were not satisfied 
with the quality of coal supplied to them. They have alleged that the quantity 
supplied to them contained a large quantity of stone and shelly matters; that ash 
content was high; and that no proper picking or screening was done before the coal 
was supplied to them. 

15. Similarly I find that the Indian Railways were formerly placing orders of 
'■oal from Kathara colliery but now they have considerably reduced their orders. 
Here also I find correspondence showing complaints from the railways that coal was 
not properly screened and that the loading was not also satisfactory. 

16. I may repeat, that I am not In a position to express any opinion In this 
respect. But I do feel that an enquiry in the matter is necessary. The fault may- 
be improper supervision at the Kathara colliery or the fault may be at the other 
end or the fault may be at both ends. Normally, a public sector undertaking should 
take coal from the nearest, colliery— more so when it is also a public sector under- 
taking — unless, of course, there are strong grounds to adopt a contrary course. An 
enquiry should enable the authorities to find out where the fault lies, so that ft 
could be set right. 



Sec. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 819 


17. Whatever the reasons may be, the tact remains that the colliery has now 
very little loading work. Even ii this is due to inefficiency or carelessness, the fact 
remains that they have no regular work for loaders and they cannot maintain a 
nucleus of loaders to whom regular work can be given. 

18. At the time of arguments, Shri Mishra on behalf of the Union contended 
that there was now a change in the circumstances; that the colliery had received 
17 rakes in January 1965 and 20 in February; they could therefore maintain a 
nucleus of loaders and hence there was no necessity of giving work to the con- 
tractor. On the other hand, I was told by Shri Narsingh on behalf of the employers 
that they had received only 10 rakes in January (though they had been told that 
they would receive 14 rakes) and that in February they have been told that they 
would get 9 rakes; hut they have so far received only one. 

10. Temporary improvement would not justify a finding that the management’s 
action is not proper. What has got to be looked Into is the circumstances prevailing 
at the time when the management took the action, which gave rise to thts dispute. 
At that time there could be no doubt that the management was justified In dis- 
charging their regular employees and getting the work done by a contractor if and 
when necessary. Again the alleged improvement may be only temporary and there 
may be a set back after some time. If there is a permanent improvement, the 
matter may require to be reviewed. In this connection, however, it may b e men- 
tioned that the colliery is having a washery very soon and when tjie washery goes 
Into operation, no loaders would he required as the coal would be mechanically 
loaded. 


20. It was then argued on behalf of the workmen that the contractor has suffi- 
cient work for these workmen and if he could employ them without keeping tham 
idle for any day, there is no reason why the colliery would not be able to do so. 
I however find that the contractor is doing not only the loading work of Kathara 
colliery but he is doing other work also. For instance, he is doing work of loading 
coal which he has agreed to supply to the thermal power house. This work I 9 not 
of Kathara colliery. When the workmen do this work, they could not be said to 
be doing work of the colliery. The contractor is also doing the work of manufac- 
turing of coke etc. Some of his workers also do the work of screening of coal etc. 
Hence he can keep his labour engaged In different kinds of work, no one would be 
idle even if there is no work of loading In the colliery. 

21. On the whole. I think that the colliery has not enough work which requires 
a nucleus of loaders to whom work could be given regularly, and it was therefore 
justified in having the work done through the contractor, Incidentally I may men- 
tion here that the main reason for the abolition of contract system is that the con- 
tractors do not pay proper wages to their workers and that they resort to mal- 
practices. In the present case, however, no allegation of any sort was made against 
the contractor. 


22. In the result. I hold that, the N.C.D.C, was justified In awarding the loading 
work to a contractor. That being so, the workmen concerned are not entitled to 
any relief. 

I pass my Award accordingly. 


Sd./- L. P. Dave, 

The 12 th February 1965. Arbitrator 

pMo. 8/123/64-LR, II, j 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 22nd February , 1965 


S.O. G99. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Kendwadih Colliery of 





820 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II- 


Mcssrs Hurriladih Coal Company Limited, Post Office Bhaga, District Dhanbad, 
and their workmen in respect ol the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the action of the management of the Kendwadih Colliery of Messrs 
Hurriladih Coal Company Limited in imposing idleness on Sarvashri Charan Singh 
and Rewal Mahato, C. C. Machine Drivers, with effect from the 1st June, 1904, was 
justified? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled? 


[No. 2/132/64-LR-II.] 


H. C. MANGHANI, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi , the 16 th February 1966 

S.O. 700. — In the Notification of the Government of India In the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 39, dated the 18th December, 1904, published 
at pages 20 to 43 in Part II— Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India, 
dated the 2nd January, 1965, for “and be placed on a scale of 00 — 130. In any 
case since they are promoted from the patternmakers,” occurring in lines 11 and 
12 of paragraph 33 at page 38, read “and outdoor flotilla, 9 fitters (I.C.E,) from 
the Motor Shop, 6 Carpenters from the Pattern-makers”. 


[No. 28/54/ 63/LR-IV.] 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 


New Delhi , the 15 th February 1905 

S.O. 701. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public Interest that for the transport of petroleum between Undera near 
Baroda in Gujarat State to Baroda City in Gujarat State, pipelines should be laid 
by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto. 


2. Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962) the Central Government hereby declares Its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 




Sec. S (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1905/FHALGUNA 8, 1886 8 2 i 


3. Any person interested in the said lands may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
competent authority at L.M.P, Building, 4th Floor, Sayaji Ganj, Baroda in the 
office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project, Oil and Natural Gas Commission. Every 
person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes 
to b“ heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 

STATE— GUJARAT DISTRICT— BARODA TALUKA— BARODA 


Village 




Survey 

No. 

Acre 

Guntha 

Sq, Yds 

Undera 




• 319 

0 

16 

85 

99 • 




, Road 

0 

4 

49 

J) 




• 317 

0 

17 

108 

33 




. 316 

0 

2 

73 

93 




. 314 

0 

19 

IOI 

33 




. 312 

0 

5 

45 

M 




. Road 

0 

21 

69 

» 




. Road 

0 

1 

92 

Gouva . 




. Road 

0 

I 

92 

J3 




. 562 

0 

2 

78 

33 * 




. 564/A 

0 

2 

108 

93 




■ 563 

0 

12 

28 

33 




• 559/1 

0 

4 

16 

93 




. 564/P 

I 

I 

106 

39 




■ 544 

0 

16 

1 14 

93 




■ 543 

0 

12 

48 

>9 





0 

II 

19 

93 




. Road 

0 

10 

00 

99 




■ 436 

0 

8 

72 

39 




■ 435 

0 

5 

35 

33 * 




• 434/1+2 

0 

8 

IIZ 

93 




■ 4i7 

! 0 

13 

107 

33 . 




. 416 

0 

12 

48 

33 




• 415/P 

0 

4 

io 3 

33 » 




. 400 

0 

3 

77 

33 




. 401 

0 

9 

*9 

3J 




■ 415/P 

J 

6 

24 

39 




. 404 

0 

4 

103 

33 




- 405 

0 

12 

15 

33 




. 406 

0 

12 

81 

3 3 




. 412 

0 

8 

98 

93 




■ 414 

0 

II 

109 

93 * 




Road 

0 

9 

64 

33 • 




■ 705 

0 

17 

23 

33 




. 706 

0 

10 

70 

33 




■ 707 

0 

18 

62 

33 




. 709/2 

0 

9 

84 

33 




. Road 

0 

2 

45 

33 • 




. 718 

0 

15 

00 

33 . 




. 710 

0 

6 

74 

39 




. 716 

0 

23 

7i 

33 




. Road 

0 

2 

9i 

39 




• 71.3 

0 

21 

19 

33 * 

• 



. 1180 

I 

0 

27 


[No. 31/38/63-ONG.] 




322 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8, 1880 [Part II- 


New Delhi , tin: 20th February 1965 

S.O. 762. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
In the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Baraunl Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State pipelines should be laid 
by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
schedule annexed hereto; 

2. Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein, 

3. Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7/166, Swarupnagar, Kanpur, Every person making 
such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in 
person or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 


State — Uttar J’radesh Tahsil — Meja. District — 'Allahabad. 


Village 

Survey No, Extent 

Village 

Survey No. Extent 



B 

B t B 



B 

B B 





4. Kukri — contd. 




.1. Baksandi 

■ 29 

0 

I 5 


544 

O 

I 0 


6l 

0 

0 lO 


545 

0 

2 0 


62 

0 

2 5 


547 

O 

I 18 


63 

0 

X 10 






70 

0 

0 t 5 

5. Chak Diha . 

I 

O 

0 10 


272 

0 

il 15 






273 /t 

0 

2 10 

6. Sarwanpur . 

■ 49 

O 

I 0 


275 

0 

5 O 


51/2 

0 

2 0 


277 

0 

0 10 


52 

0 

0 5 


20 T 

0 

I 0 

1 

53/1 

0 

0 5 


408 

0 

I 10 






3 It /2 

0 

6 0 

7. Manpui 

. 109/J 

0 

I 0 


3 t 3 , 

0 

2 18 


109/2 

0 

X 0 


267/2 

0 

4 0 






3 ° 9/2 

0 

I 10 

8. Nahwai 

. 62/2 

0 

I 0 


310/2 

0 

4 10 


78/2 

0 

0 10 






9 i 

0 

I 0 

-2. Hempur 

. 44 /t 

0 

I 0 


98 

0 

0 5 


45/1 

0 

5 0 


140 

0 

0 5 


46 

0 

I 0 


141 

0 

0 5 


61/2 

0 

0 15 


142 

0 

0 8 






143 

0 

0 10 

3. Bela Ahiran . 

. 24 

0 

0 10 






27/2 

0 

I 0 

9. Tikri , 

. 142/2 

0 

X 10 


28/2 

0 

7 10 


597 

0 

I 0 


3 ° 

0 

3 2 


599 

0 

I 0 


3 6/2 

0 

4 10 






44/3 

0 

7 10 

to, Umapur Kalan 

. Il8 

0 

I 10 


45/2 

0 

4 9 


124/2 

0 

I 0 


50/1 

0 

0 15 


469 

0 

2 0 


50/4 

0 

2 7 


484 

0 

4 10 






487 

0 

0 10 

4. Kukri . 

. 384 

0 

0 10 


498 

0 

I 0 


386 

0 

0 15 






476 

0 

0 s 

11. Garetba 

169 

0 

7 0 


481 

0 

0 5 


219/1 

0 

2 5 


483 

0 

2 S 


220 

0 

3 0 


484 

0 

I 0 


225 

0 

0 10 


517 

0 

i x8 


232 

0 

4 0 



Sec. S (»)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1888 823 


Village 

Survey 

No .' 

Extent 

Village 

Survey 

No . 


Extent 



B 

B 

B 






:. Garetha— contd. 

233 

0 

0 

14 

13. Urwa . 

. 53 

0 

I 

0 


234 

0 

0 

10 


136/1 

0 

2 

0 


258/2 

0 

1 

0 


136/2 

0 

3 

0 


265 

0 

3 

0 


137 

0 

9 

iS 


266/2 

0 

0 

1 5 


147 

0 

2 

10 


266/3 

0 

0 

15 


169 

0 

2 

0 


267/3 

0 

3 

10 


170 

0 

1 

10 







171 

0 

4 

0 

t. Chauktha Lachhan 

172/1 

0 

r 

0 


469 

0 

4 

0 


173 

0 

0 

15 


509/1 

0 

0 

10 


190 

0 

I 

TO 







211 

0 

2 

15 

14. Lehndi 

■ 533 

0 

1 

0 


212/1 

0 

2 

0 


534 

0 

T 

0 


225 

0 

I 

0 


542 

0 

I 

0 


231 

0 

2 

0 







241 

0 

O 

5 

15. Bisahjan Khurd 

■ 297/1 

0 

2 

0 


242 

0 

3 

0 







299 

0 

2 

T 5 

16. Bisahjan Kaian 

■ 135/2 

0 

I 

15 


300/1 

0 

1 

0 


140 

0 

0 

10 


300/2 

0 

2 

0 


143 

0 

I 

15 


301 

0 

0 

5 


146/5 

0 

0 

8 


306 

0 

2 

10 


147 

0 

2 

0 


307 

0 

3 

0 


152 

0 

3 

0 


310 

0 

X 

0 







3 ii 

0 

3 

0 

17. Kathauli 

839 

0 

8 

0 


316 

0 

1 

10 


845 

Tr»T7J 

0 

n 

T 

£ 

0 

T C 


[No. 31/50/63-ONG-l.J 


S.O. 703. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public Interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State, pipelines should be laid 
by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in 
the schedule annexed hereto; 

2. Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 

3. Any person interested In the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7/166, Swarupnagar, Kanpur, Every person making such 
an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard In person 
or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 


State; Uttar 

Pradesh 

Tahsil: 

Kabchhana 

District: 

Allahabad 

Village 

Survey 

Extent 

Village 

Survey 

Extent 


No/ 



No. 




B B B 




1. Indalpur 

85 

010 

2. Chak Mum Uddinpur 52/1 

0 4 15 


86 

0 0 15 


52/2 

0 0 15 


88 

OIO 

3, Chak Ata UUa 

■ 52 

O65 


89 

0 0 10 





92 

0 2 10 

4. Chak Qazi 

■ 3 

038 


93 

0 2 0 


5 

0 815 






824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II— 


Village 

4. Clink Qazi — contd. 
5. Chaka . 


6 . Chhionki 

7. Dadri Taluqe Naini 
Dadri 

8. Bharohan 

9. Mahuwari Taluqe 
Lawain 


Survey Extent 

No. 


18 

0 

7 8 

21 

0 

2 15 

25 

0 

I 2 

2I/2M 

0 

3 0 

25/2 

0 

8 0 

29 

0 

5 to 

31 

0 

i 5 

32 

0 

3 0 

34 

0 

0 5 

219/2 

0 

I 15 

273/2 

0 

0 15 

278 

0 

0 10 

282 

0 

3 1° 

3°9 

0 

4 0 

317 

0 

I 10 

343 

0 

3 10 

344 

0 

2 5 

346 

0 

4 5 

347/t 

0 

0 6 

35° 

0 

1 0 

337 

0 

4 0 

359 

0 

1 10 

521 

0 

I 10 

322 

0 

4 5 

523/1 

0 

0 io 

692 

0 

0 10 

99/1 

0 

7 10 

100 

0 

5 1° 

264/5 

0 

0 5 

264/6 

0 

I 15 

264/18 

0 

3 t° 

264/20 

0 

4 io 

264/34 

0 

0 5 

86/1 

0 

2 0 

86/4 

0 

1 5 

86/5 

0 

4 0 

144 

0 

0 10 

146 

0 

1 0 

164 

0 

2 10 

165 

0 

2 0 

166/1 

0 

1 10 

166/2 

0 

3 0 

167 

0 

1 0 

169/1 

0 

3 1° 

263 

0 

2 10 

265 

0 

9 O 

267/1 

0 

2 O 

268 

0 

I IO 

270 

0 

9 5 

271 

0 

9 10 

272/1 

0 

2 0 

272/2 

0 

0 10 

274 

0 

4 10 

275 

0 

6 0 

279 

0 

1 10 

280 

0 

8 5 

321 

0 

7 i 5 

322 

0 

0 3 

325 

0 

5 15 


Village Survey Extent 

No. 


9. Mahuwari Taluqe 

335/1 

O 

2 0 

Lawnm— fourth 

336 /i 

O 

2 5 


336/2 

0 

3 10 

10. Chak Mohammad 

Waris 

71/1 

0 

O 5 


71/2 

0 

2 IO 


90 

0 

2 5 


94 

0 

1 10 


102/1, 2 

0 

3 5 


102/3 

0 

0 5 


ICS 

0 

0 5 


109 

0 

2 15 


113 

0 

3 10 

11. Beuhaia 

80/2 

0 

I 15 


82 

0 

2 0 


91 

0 

0 5 


95 /t 

0 

1 0 


95/2 

0 

I 0 


96 

0 

2 0 


100 

0 

0 15 


103/3 

0 

I 0 


272 

0 

I IO 


273/1,2 

0 

4 0 

12. Hardua 

31 

0 

0 3 


34/1 

0 

1 0 


34/2 

0 

2 0 


40 

0 

0 12 


60 

0 

3 15 


6l 

0 

2 8 

13. Mugari 

2855 

0 

0 IO 

2860 

0 

0 5 


2861 

0 

1 10 


2862 

0 

2 0 


2864/2 

0 

2 0 


2865 

0 

I IO 


2866 

0 

1 10 


2867 

0 

1 10 


2940 

0 

2 0 


2959 

0 

4 0 


2960 

0 

2 0 


2962/2 

0 

2 0 


2964/1 

0 

0 10 

14. Basaria 

265/1 

0 

I 0 

266/3 

0 

0 10 


266/4 

0 

0 10 


279 

0 

I IO 


287/2 

0 

I 0 


325 

0 

I IO 


365/1 

0 

I 5 

,15. Bharha 

389 

0 

2 0 

16 . Gandhyan . 

575 

0 

2 0 


627 

0 

I 0 


668/3 

0 

I 0 


668/14 

0 

0 5 


668/29 

0 

I 0 


668/30, 

0 

2 O 


3i 

682 


010 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 19G5/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 825 


Village Survey No. 

Extent. 

1 

Village 

Survey 

No. 

Extent 



B 

B 

B 






16. Gandhvan — ■ contd . 

683 

0 

1 

0 

17. Chore Dech — contd. 

557 

0 

0 

5 


684/1 

0 

I 

5 


558 

0 

2 

0 


700 

0 

0 

IO 







710/2 

0 

5 

O 

iS. Basiar 

272 

0 

4 

0 


716 

0 

0 

5 


274 

0 

0 

15 


719 

0 

3 

0 


275 

0 

0 

15 


7 22 

0 

2 

0 


810 

0 

0 

5 


726 

0 

3 

0 


817 

0 

I 

0 


729/6 

0 

T 

10 


818 

0 

0 

IO 


73 1 

0 

I 

IO 











19. Kachri 

160/3 

0 

0 

15 

17. Ghore Deeh 

538 

0 

2 

0 


192 

0 

I 

0 


540 

0 

4 

0 


202/1 

0 

7 

0 


550 

0 

0 

15 


204 

0 

I 

0 


554 

0 

2 

5 


230 

0 

0 

15 


556 

0 

0 

5 


231/2 

0 

0 

IO 


[No. 31/50/G3-ONG-2.] 


S.O. 704. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State, pipelines should be laid 
by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the 
schedule annexed hereto; 

2. Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 2 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 
1 902 (50 of 1062), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 

.1. Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority at 7/166, Swarupnagar. Kanpur. Every person making such 
an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 

State : Uttar Pradesh Tahsil : Chail District : Allahabad. 


Village 

Survcv 

No.' 

Extent 

Village Survcv 

No." 

Extent 



B B 

B 


B 

B 

B 






2. Malak Nagar 58B 

0 

2 

IO 

1. Ashrafpur Taluqe 

661M 

O 

I 

0 

~ 61 

0 

I 

IO 

Asadullapur 

710 

O 

0 

IO 

62 

0 

2 

15 


714M 

O 

0 

IO 

66 

0 

9 

IO 


714M 

O 

4 

5 

69 

0 

6 

IO 


718 

O 

T 

0 






733/r 

0 

3 

0 

3 . Amilokipur 22 

0 

1 

0 


1370 

0 

0 

IO 

26 

0 

4 

5 


1371 

0 

0 

IO 

36 

O 

1 

9 


1449 

0 

2 

5 

37 

0 

4 

IO 


1450 

0 

0 

IO 

38 

0 

1 

IO 


1451 

0 

2 

TO ! 

65 

0 

2 

0 


I457/I 

0 

I 

IO 

66 

0 

I 

0 


1460 

0 

0 

TO 1 

76A 

0 

2 

0 


1462 

0 

4 

o I 

206 

0 

9 

IO 


1470 

0 

6 

IO 

214 

O 

X 

0 


1471 

0 

5 

0 

217 

0 

I 

0 


1480 

0 

0 

*5 , 

225 

0 

I 

15 






297 

0 

3 

0 


8 26 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27 I 965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1886 [Part II- 


Village 

Survey 

No. 

Extent 

Village 

Survey 

No. 

Extent 






8. Kasari Masari-ccwrf, 





4. Mthmoodpur 

120/2M 

0 

3 

0 


1383 

0 

0 

10 


121M 

0 

I 

15 


1721 

0 

3 

0 


123M 

0 

0 

10 


1724 

0 

5 

5 


134M 

0 

0 

10 


1750 

0 

2 

JO 


137M 

0 

0 

10 


1751 

0 

2 

0 


149M 

0 

0 

5 


1753 

0 

I 

10 


150M 

0 

I 

5 







152M 

0 

I 

10 







435 

0 

I 

0 

9, Bajupur 

57 

0 

0 

5 


436 

0 

2 

0 


JS 

0 

2 

10 


466 

0 

I 

15 


60 

0 

0 

15 


467 

0 

0 

5 


62 

0 

2 

0 







63 

0 

0 

5 







64 

0 

I 

0 

5. Muhiuddinpur , 

195 

0 

2 

10 


65 

0 

2 

5 







66 

0 

0 

15 







72 

0 

I 

5 

6. Mubarakpur Kutwa 

252M 

0 

5 

15 


73 

0 

I 

0 


256B 

0 

6 

10 


74 

0 

I 

0 


257A 

0 

4 

0 







287M 

I 

I 

15 











10. Chak Bajupur 

34 

0 

2 

O 







35 

0 

2 

0 







36 

0 

0 

15 

7. Rajruppur 

203M 

0 

14 

10 


37 

0 

7 

JO 


210 

0 

6 

5 


38 

0 

7 

15 


212 

0 

3 

0 


45 

0 

5 

10 


213 

0 

3 

10 







214 

0 

7 

0 







215 

0 

3 

10 

11, Karaili 

6t 

0 

3 

15 


216 

0 

0 

5 


62 

0 

2 

0 


219 

0 

2 

10 


63 

0 

r 

10 


220 

0 

8 

10 


64 

0 

0 

5 


227 

0 

JO 

10 


73 

0 

1 

10 







147 

0 

3 

0 







149 

0 

0 

15 

8 . Kasari Masari 

58 

0 

4 

10 


iso 

0 

1 

15 


60 

0 

3 

0 


151 

0 

4 

0 


63 

0 

6 

5 


275 

0 

0 

15 


68 

0 

2 

0 


284 

0 

3 

10 


69 

0 

1 

15 


296 

0 

1 

5 


70 

0 

0 

L 5 


297 

0 

1 

10 


1159 

0 

J 

10 


301 

0 

2 

5 


1160 

0 

3 

0 


302 

0 

3 

12 


1198 

0 

5 

15 


304 

0 

2 

0 


1 199 

0 

3 

0 


306 

0 

I 

5 


1276 

0 

3 

TO 







1338 

0 

1 

0 







1 335/ 1 

0 

0 

10 

12. Sadivapur . 

171M 

0 

1 

0 


1360 

0 

0 

5 







1381 

0 

3 

0 

13. Mirapur . 

51/1M 

0 

2 

10 


[No. 31/50/83-ONG-3.] 


S.O. 'JOS. — -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State, pipelines 
should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of 
laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land 
described In the Schedule annexed hereto; 

2. Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act,, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1880 827 - 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority, 9 , Syed Amir Ali Avenue. Calcutta -17 in the office of the 
Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal 
practitioner. 


Schedule 

State: WEST BENGAL Dist. HOOGHLY Tchsil/Thana: HARIPAL 


Village 

Survey No. 
(Plot No.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Village Survey No. 

(Plot No.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

BALLA, J.L.4. 

165 

* 16 

BAI.TAj J.L.4— ctmtd. 290 

•07 


166 

•01 

291 

' IO 


170 

■08 

294 

-14 


171 

* ro 

295 

•05 


175 

*12 

309 

■02 


176 

* 10 

315 

-0 3 


177 

-04 

394 

■or 


179 

*o6 

397 

•02 


181 

■ 10 

398 

■18 


182 

* 10 

399 

-I 4 


183 

* 12 

405 

16 


279 

■os 

590 

■08 


280 

■12 

591 

' r 4 


281 

-16 

593 

•os. 


282 

•02 

641 

* Or 


283 

*01 

900 

■04 


289 

•02 




[No. 31 / 33 / 63 -ONG-i.l 

S.O. 706 . — 'Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Baraunl Re- 
finery in Bihar State and Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State, pipelines 
should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for the purpose 
of laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land 
described in the Schedule annexed hereto; 

2, Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 
1982 (50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority, 9 , Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Calcutta -17 in the office of the 
Indian OH Corporation Limited. Every person making such an objection shall 
also state specifically whether he wishes to be heard In person or by a legal 
practitioner. 

ADDENDUM 

Schedule 

Stale; WEST BENGAL Dist. MIDNAPORE Tehsil/Thana: DASPUR 


Village 

Survey Nos. 
(Plot Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Village 

Survey Nos. 
(Plot Nob.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

Jot Ghanshyam, J.L. 

240 2628 

■005 

Jot Ghanshyam, J.L. 

2652 

■ 12 


2629 

‘02 

240— tontd. 

2667 

■42 


2630 

•03 


2681 

•17 


2631 

■oi 


2682 

■ 15 


2639 

■04 


2683 

■ 14 


2644 

* 01 


2684 

•06 




£28 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEB, 27, 1965/PHALGUNA 8 , 1880 [Paht II-Sec. 3 (ii)] 


Village 


Jot Ghanshyam, J.L 
• — coned. 


Kultikri, J.L. 24 1 


Survey 
(Plot N 

Nos. Extent 
os.) (Areaj 

Village 

Survey Nos. 
(Plot. Nos.) 

Extent 

(Area) 

.240 2685 

■03 

Kultikri, J.L.241 — co tad. 235 

•18 

2717 

*06 


236 

•005 

2718 

■06 


237 

■ 12 

2719 

■05 


238 

•05 

2722 

■ 12 


239 

•32 

2815 

■03 


275 

•03 

2822 

•03 


830 

■28 

5498 

•07 


837 

■15 

5586 

■26 


847 

■18 

5587 

•05 


848 

■10 

5588 

•03 


849 

•08 

5598 

■02 


850 

* IO 

5599 

■03 


853 

■oB 

5604 

•03 


855 

•08 

5605 

■04 


856 

■25 

5606 

•05 


858 

•22 

5607 

■02 


859 

■IO 

5608 

■03 


862 

■02 

5609 

■04 


863 

*10 

5610 

■01 


864 

* 12 

5633 

■ 22 


865 

■08 

5634 

•22 


866 

■12 

5636 

• 18 


867 

■06 

5639 

*22 


1002 

•28 

5640 

•03 


to 05 

'02 

5641 

•005 


1424 

•25 

5648 

■005 


1427 

■l6 

5649 

•02 


1451 

' IO 

5651 

■ 10 


1452 

■08 

5652 

-04 


1453 

■08 

5653 

■04 


1454 

■03 

5654 

■03 


1456 

•14 

5655 

•04 


1459 

■03 

5656 

■02 


1460 

-04 

5<557 

-03 


1461 

■04 

5658 

'02 


1464 

•03 

5659 

■005 


1465 

■06 

5660 

03 


1466 

■01 

5690 

■05 


1796 

•05 

5*591 

•04 


1869 

•04 




1874 

14 

82 

' IO 


1875 

•05 

83 

■05 


1876 

*02 

87 

■ 16 


1877 

■15 

88 

“06 


1936 

■14 

92 

•06 


1937 

■10 

93 

■04 


1940 

■10 

172 

•005 


1943 

■ 18 

232 

■03 


1949 

■ 10 

233 

‘10 


1950 

'01 

234 

■06 





[No. 3 1 / 3 .3 /63-ON G-ii . ] 



