REGISTERED No. D. 222 


“She dazette 





of Enbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 1 8] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the [23rd April 
1962 : — 


Issue 

No. No. and Date Issued by Subject 


172 S. O. 1193, dated 19th April, 
1962. 


S. O. 1194, dated 19th April, 
1962. 

173 S. O. 1193, dated 19th April, 
1962. 


174 S. O. 1196, dated 21st April, 
1962. 


175 S. O. 1197, dated 2tst April, 
1962. 


176 S. O, 1198, dated 21st April, 
1962. 


177 S. O. 119 9, dated 23rd April, 

1962. 

178 S. O. 1200, dated 23rd April, 

1962. 


Ministry of Com- Appointment of Shri H. 
mercc & Industry. Sirarama Reddy, as Chairman 
of the Coffee Board, Ban- 
galore. 

Ditto. Appointment of members of the 

Coffee Board. 

Ministry of Law. Declarations containing the 
names of the candidates elected 
to All the vacancies in the 
Council of States. 


Election Commission, Appointment of officers specified 
India. in the schedule to be the Assis- 

tant Returning Officers for the 
Presidential Election. 

Rajya Sabha Sccre- List of valid nominations for 
tariat. election to the office of Vice- 

President of India. 


Lok Sabha Secre- List of valid nominations for 
tariat. election to the office of Presi- 

dent of India. 


Ministty of Informa- Approved of films Specified 
tion & Broadcasting therein. 

Election Commis- Specifying the Assistant Ra- 
sion, India. turning Officers who shall 

conduct the poll at the places 
of polling. 


( 1395 ) 



1396 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Issue 

No. No. and Date 

Issued by 

Subject 

179 S. 0 . 1201, dated 23rd April, 
1962. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce & Industry. 

Exempting the Indian 

Oil Company Limited, Bom- 
bay, from the provisions of 
section 6 of the said Act in 
respect of petrol sold by the 
company within the Union 
Territory of Delhi. 

180 S. 0 . 1202, dated 23rd April, 
1962. 

Election Commis- 
sion, India. 

Fixation of place of polling and 
specifying hours during which 
the poll will be taken at the 
Vice-Presidential Election. 

181 S. O. 1203, dated 23rd April, 
1962. 

Ditto. 

Fixation of place of polling and 
specifying hours during which 
the poll will be taken at the 
Presidential Election. 


Copies of the Gazette Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
this Gazette. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders nnd notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 
New Delhi, the 9th April 1962 

S.O. 1281. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1981, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the corres- 
ponding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1902 has, in accordance 
with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of 
the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will accord- 
ingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Jena Lakshmldhar, 

Jaipur 

Godigotb, 


P.O. Baragadia, 


Cuttack. 



tNo. OR-HP/ 18/02 (1) /32441.] 






tmc. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15. 1884 1397 


New Delhi, the 12 th April 1962 

8.0. 1282.— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Buies, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the names of the persons 
atiown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
corresponding entries In column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 have, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under 
sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any accounts of their election 
expenses and will accordingly become subject to the disqualification under 
clause {c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 on the 
expiration of two months from the date of the said decision. 


Schfdule 


Names of contesting candidates 

Name of constituency 

X 

2 

L Shri Mohimnt'd Ibrahim Khan, Bhimpura, Shujalpur, District 
■ Shojapur, (Madhya Pradesh) 

Rajgarh. 

Shri Ramdayal Singh, Pratap Press, Indcrganj, Lashkar, 
(Madhya Pradesh). ........ 

Rajgarli. 


[No. MP-P|29|02|(19U 


K.O. 1213. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Buies, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
tn column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the correspon- 
ding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accordance with 
the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said 
rule, failed to lodge any account ot his election expenses and will accordingly 
become subject to the dlsquauflcation under clause (c) of section 7 of the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from the date of 
tbe said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 


2 

Shri Chunilal Baraik, Dhekiajuli Town, 

P.O. Dhekiajuli, District Darrang, Assam. 


Darrang, 



[No. AS-P/8/62(l).]' 

New Delhi, the 26 th April 

1962 



8.0. 1284. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (I) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 83, of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 10th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Yugal 
Kishore SLnha, son of Shri Sadhu Sharan Sinha, resident of village and Post Office 
Dvrmari, Police Station Majorganj, District Muzaffarpur, calling in question the 
election to the House of the People from the Sitamarhi constituency or that House 
of Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav, son of Sh-i Hirala Rai, resident of Chakmahila, 
Port Office and Police Station Sitamarhi, District Muzaffarpur. 






1398 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Past 


Before: — 

THE ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA, NEW DELHI. 

Election Petition No. 83 of 1802. 

In the matter of 

A petition under section 80 of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951, (Ceiw 
tral Act 43, of 1951); 

ANP 

In the matter of 

Election to the Lok Sabha from 12 Sitamarhl Parliamentary Constituency 
(Bihar) ; 


In the matter of 

Sri Yugal Kisho-e Sinha, son of Sri Sadhu Sharan Sinha, aged about 63 year*, 
resident of villa re and Post Office Dumari, Police Station Majorganj, District 
Muzaffarpur. — Petitioner. 


versus 


Sri Nagendra Prasad Yadav, son of Sri Hlralal Rah resident of ChukmahUa, 
Post Office and Police Station Sitamarhi, District Muzaffarpur .—Opposite Party . 

The humble petition on behalf of the above named petitioner. 

Most respectfully sheweth: — 

I That In pursuance of the notification published by Election Commission to 

I I . - 1.1 -j. on IV# ILo PonrMPntntirai of PeODle’S Act 


Constituency along with 5 others. 

2. That the poll in the said Constituency was held on the 18th, 2l3t, 23rd and 
25th February, 1902, 


3 That the counting of votes of the said Constituency took place on the 26th, 
27th and 28th February, 1962, and the opposite party was declared elected ns* 
member o ’the Lo™ Sabha from the said Constifuency by the Returning Officer 


v-*- -- s-’ — • * - 

4 That the said election is illegal and void inasmuch as on the date of the 
the said Sri Nagendra Prasad Yadav, the returned candidate, the opposite 
parw herein was disqualified to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution 
Sf India and/or under thi Representation of People’s Act, 1951 within the 
meaning 61 clause (a) sub-section 1 of the Section 100 of this Act. 

Because 

tni The said Sri Nagendra Pd. Yadav was holding an office of Profit under 
the Government of Bihar and having a subsisting contract for e*®cuti°n 
the work undertaken by the Government of India on the day of election. 

by ^an^published 0 th e B lhor Gazette, dated the 27th August, 1958, 

(el In 1952 and 1957 the opposite party attempted to obtain Congress tick** 
for contesting the General Election but without success. 

(d) The opposite party filed the said application for permit in the name of 
his wife Srimati Bidyabati Devi who lives joint in food and estate with the 
oppose party, with the ostensible purpose of circumventing the provision of law. 

(e) On the 29th December, 1959, the opposite party personally appeared 

bef or ’ the Authority and represent^ his case for the grant 0 !’ 

he pleaded, amongst others, a ground that he was a political sufferer and thereby- 
succeeded in obtaining a permit, 




Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962yVAISAKHA 15, 1884 jjgg 


(f) On the 23rd June, I960, the opposite party again appeared personally 
before the Authority and pleaded for the grant of permit. 

(g) The opposite party did not file at any stage any authority from Srimati 
Bidyabati Devi authorising him to represent her before the Authority. 

(h) The Authority considering the representation made by the opposite party, 
specially the fact that he was a political sufferer, granted him the permit in 
the name of his wife, who was not a political sufferer. 

(1) An appeal was preferred against the grant of the permit bifore Appellate 
Authority on the ground that she (opposite party’s wife) had no finance to run 
the service, to which no satisfactory answer was given on her behalf. 

(j) The opposite party deposited Rs. 20 from his own pocket in the Treasury 
and personally filled an application before the Authority enclosing R.C. book of 
1960 — Model Tata Mercedez — and treasury ehalan worth Rs, 20. 

(k) The stage permit bearing number 199/60 for plying bus in Muzaffarpur — 
Sitamarhi — Sursand route and to carry mails, if required, was issued on the 
-22nd July, 1960, for three years. 

(l) The opposite party took delivery of the said permit, accepted the condi- 
tion of the permit and started the bus business and continu:d carrying it on till 
the days of election and at no stage showed any intention to depart from the 
.agreement of carrying mails. 

(m) The opposite party obtained vehicle under hire purchase agreement 
"which has been in his possession and control throughout. 

(n) The opposite party personally supervised and managed the business of 
the bus bearing Registration No. BRF 2126, personally arranging after xpenses 
.and receiving payments and appropriating the income to his own benefit. The 
opposite party is really exercising control over the business. 

(o) Srimati Bidyabati Devi, wife of the opposite party, has or had no funds 
or property or income of her own and has no business outside her domestic 
households. She had no accounts of her own and all the money required and 
ipent over the business aforesaid was arranged by the opposite party. 

(p) The opposite party was the real holder of the permit and the opposite 
-party used the name of his wife as a benaml transaction to vade the provisions 
of law. She was never intended to be the owner of the vehicle. 

(q) The permit-holder holds his office at the pleasure of the State Govern- 
ment. 

(r) The permit-holders make profit out of the rates fixed by the Government 
jfhr carrying of passengers and goods. 

(s) The opposite party as a permit-hold"r had entered into contract to carry 
malls, a Union Government undertaking, on payment made by the Government 
in course of his bus business and the same contract subsisted on the day of elec- 
tions. 

(t) The permit-holder has been assigned duties by the State Government and 
has to function under the directions of the Government issued from time to time. 

5. That the counterfoil showing the statutory deposit of Rs. 2,000 is enclosed 
herewith. 


Prayer 

In the circumstances, the petitioner prays that, for the aforesaid grounds 
-stated in the petition, the election of the opposite party, Sri Nagendra Pd. Yadsv, 
to the Lok Sabha from the 12, Sitamarhi Parliamentary Constituency, be declared 

void. 

New Delhi, Yugal Kishore Sinha, 

-The 10th April, 1962, 

Verification 

I Yugal Kishore Sinha, son of Sri Sadhu Sharan Sinha, by caste Rajput, by 
•profession public service, resident of village Dumari Khurd, Post Office Duman, 




1400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Pa** II 


Police Station Maj organ J, District Muzaffarpur, do hereby solemnly affir m tnil 
declare and verify at New Delhi on the 10th April, 1962:— 

That I am the petitioner and I am conversant with the facts and circuna- 
stances leading to this application. 

That I have read this petition and have understood the contents of the «=nw» 

That the paragraph Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4(c) (o) (n) (s) (t) and 5 are true to uw 
knowledge, paragraphs Nos. 4(a) (b) (d) (e) (f) (g) (h) (i) (j) (k) (1) (m) (n> 
are true to my information derived from various records and other sources which 
the petitioner believes to be true and the rest of the paragraphs are men* 
submissions. 

New Delhi, Yugal Kishore Sinha. 

The 10th April, 1962. 


[No. 82/63/BXJ 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1902 

S.O. 1285.— In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No, 111 of 1962, presented to the Commis- 
sion on the 10th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Sankurl 
Prasad Ghosal, Village Bagila, P.O, Bagila, P. S. Memari, District Burdwan, Wont 
Bengal and Shri Narayan Chandra Ghosh, residing at Rashbehari Ghosh Rood 
(South) Mahalla, P. S. & District Burdwan, West Bengal, calling in question ih* 
election to the House of the People from the Burdwan constituency of that House 
of Shri Gurugobinda Basil, residing at 16/4, Gariahata Road, Calcutta-19. 


ELECTION PETITION NO. Ill OF 1962 
Presented to the Election Commission 

1. Sankari Prasad Ghosal residing at P.O. & Vill. Bagila, P. S'. Meraarl, 

Dlst, Burdwan, State of West Bengal 

2. Narayan Chandra Ghosh residing at Rashbehari Ghosh Road (South> 

Mahalla, P. S • Burdwan, Dist, Burdwan, State erf West Bengal — 
Petitioners. 


Versus 

1. Gurugobinda Basu residing at 16/4, Gariahata Road, Calcutta — 19. 

2. Subiman Ghosh residing at Shyamsagar Ghat, Burdwan, P.O., P-55. Sc 

Dist. Burdwan — Respondents. 

The humble petition of Sankari Prasad Ghosal and Narayan Chandra GhoA 
the petitioners abovenamed most respectfully Sheweth: — 

1. At all material times your petitioners were and still are citizens of India 
and were and are ordinarily resident of Burdwan, their actual places of resfdeOoB 
being as follows: — 


Names 

Place of residence 

1, Sankari Prasad Ghosal 

(Petitioner No. i) 

2. Narayan Chandra Ghosh 

(Petitioner No. 2) 

P.O. & Village Bagila, P.S. Memari, Dist. Buidmnv 
State of West Bengal. 

Rashbehari Ghosh Road (South) Mohalla, P-5L 
Burdwan, Dist. Burdwan, State of West Bengal- 


2. The aforesaid places of residence of your petitioners were and are situated 
within the area which forms the No. 34, Burdwan Parliamentary Constituency 
(hereinafter referred to as the said constituency) in the last general election* 
held in February 1962. 

3. At all material times your petitioners were and still are electors of the said 
constituency and their names are entered in the Electoral Rolls for the said con- 
stituency and they were entitled to vote in the said constituency at the last 


Sin. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 19 G 2 /VAI. SAKHA 15 , 1884 


I4OI 


general elections held in February 1962. Particulars of the position of the names 
of your petitioners in the Electoral Roll are as follows: — - 

Particulars 


Names 


Positions 


1. Sankari Prasad Ghosal 

Part 713 Serial No. 186 

of Memari Assembly 

(Petitioner No. 1) 

Constituency 

2. Narayan Chandra Ghosh 

Part 117 Serial No. 188 

of Burdwan Assembly 

(Petitioner No. 2) 

Constituency 


4. On or about 13th January 1962 public notice was given by the Returning 
Officer for the said constituency of the intended election inter alia to the House 
of People inviting nominations of candidates for such election, Amongst other 
persons the respondents herein presented nomination papers desiring to be nomi- 
nated as such candidates to the House of People. Tire nominations of the res- 
pondents were accepted by the Returning Officer who duly prepared and publi- 
shed a list of valid nominations of the candidates containing the names of the 
respondents who were the only contesting candidates. Polling in the said con- 
stituency for the election of a member to the House of People from the said 
Constituency (hereinafter referred to as the said election) was held partly on 
the 19th February 1962, partly on the 20th February 1962 and partly on the 22nd 
February 1962. The respondents were the duly nominated candidates at the said 
election. 

5. On or about 1st March 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the date of the said 
election) the result of the said election was declared by the Returning Officer 
and the respondent No. 1 was declared to have been elected as a member of the 
House of People from the said Constituency. The said contesting candidates were 
also declared to have secured the following number of votes: — 


Name of Candidates Votes Polled 


1. Gurugohinda Basu (respondent No. 1) 1,55,485 

2. Subiman Ghosh (respondent No. 2) 1,23,015 


6. The petitioners are desirous of challenging the election of the respondent 
No. 1 to the House of People as void inter alia upon the grounds and by reason 
of the facts stated hereafter, and the petitioners state that they are persons com- 
petent to do so. 

7. At all material times and in particular at the date of the said election, the 
respondent No. 1, being the returned candidate, held and still holds several offi- 
ces of profit under the Government of India and the Government of West Ben- 
gal as will appear inter alia from the facts stated hereunder: — 

Particulars 

A- (i) The Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as the 
said Corporation) is a statutory body, being a Corporation established by and 
under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 (Act XXXI of 1966). The said 
Corporation consists of members appointed by the Central Government. The orl- 

f inal capital of the said Corporation was provided by the Central Government. 

he said Corporation carries on life insurance business subject to rules, made or 
to be mode, by the Central Government in this behalf, In fact the Central Gov- 
ernment has tne over all power of control and management of the said Corpora- 
tion. In particular the accounts of the Corporation are audited by auditors ap- 
pointed by the said Corporation with the previous approval of the Central Gov- 
ernment. The remuneration of auditors so appointed is fixed by the Central 
Government. The auditors are to submit their reports to the said Corporation 
and are also to forward a copy thereof to the Central Government and all 
reports made by the auditors are to be laid before both Houses of Parliament 
including the House of People. The respondent No. 1, as a proprietor of and/or 
Interested in the firm of Messrs. G. Basu & Company at all material times and in 
particular on the date of the said election held and still holds for remuneration the 
office of an auditor of the said Corporation with the prior approval of the Central 









1402 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, T902/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Government, such remuneration being fixed by the Central Government. In the 
promises the respondent No. 1 at ail mat rial times and in particular at the date 
of the said election, held and still holds, an office of profit under the Government 
of India. 

(ii) A company known as Durgapur Projects Limited having its offices at New 
Secretariat Buildings No. 1. Hastings Street. Calcutta, is a Government company 
within the meaning of the Companies Act, I960. The Central Government and/or 
the State of West Bengal holds not less than 51 per cent of the paid up share 
capital of the said company. In or ahout D cembcr 1901 the firm of Messrs. G. 
Basil & Company of and in which the respondent No. 1 at all material times in- 
cluding the date of the said election was and still is a proprietor and/or interested, 
was appointed by the Central Government (bv ord j r of and in the name of the 
President of India) to bo one of the joint auditors of the said Durgapur Projects 
Limited. The said appointment continued and was existing on the date of the said 
election and is still continuing, The said appointment was and is for remuneration 
which has been or is to be fixed bv the Central Government. In the Premises the 
respondent No. 1 at all material times and In particular at the date of the said elec- 
tion held and still holds an office of profit under the Government of India and/or 
the Government of West Bengal and/or other States. 

(iii) Similarly Messrs. G. Basu & Company at the date of the said election was 
the auditor of Messrs. Hindusthan Steel Ltd., which is a Government Company 
within the meaning of Companies Act and as such on the relevant date the res- 
pondent No. 1 held and still holds an office of profit under the Government. 

(iv) The West Bengal Financial Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Financial Corporation) is a statutory body incorporated und r the provision^ of 
the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (Act LXIII of 19511. The respondent- 
No. 1 was nominated by the Government of West Bengal to be a member of the 
Board of Directors of the said Financial Corporation and he held and holds such, 
office during the pleasure of the State of West Bengal. As such Director the res- 
pondent No. 1 is entitled to be paid remuneration and fees. The respondent No, 1 
at all material times and in particular on the date of the said election was and 
still is a director of the said Financial Corporation nominat id by the State of West 
Bengal. The State of West Bengal has subscribed to a major portion n" the issued 
capital of the said Financial Corporation. In the premises the respondent No 1 
at all mnterial times and in particular at the dat ■ of the said election held and 
still holds an office of profit under the State of West Bengal. In numerous pamph- 
lets published and circulated at the Instance of the respondent No. 1 and/or with 
his knowledge consent and connivance. It has been stated that the respondent 
No. 1 has connections with numerous Government institutions and organisations 
and/or departments. An original pamphlet Is annexed hereto and marked “A’ 1 *, A 
copy of another pamphlet Is annexed hereto and marked "B"*. Your petitioners 
are unable to give full particulars of all the Government institutions, organisa- 
tions and/or departments with which the respondent No, 1 is connected as they 
are facts within the special knowledge of the respondent No. 1 but they call upon 
the respondent No. 1 to make full disclosures in respect thereof. Your petitioners 
fully believe that upon such disclosure it will be found that the respondent No. 1 
holds various other offices of profit under the Central Government and/or State 
Governments which disqualify him from being a member of the House of People. 

8. The election campaign of the respondent No, 1 was opened at a public meet- 
ing held at Burdwan on or about 1st October 1961 which was inaugurated by Dr. 
B. C. Roy, Chief Minister of West Bengal and in which the respondent No. 1 was 
present. At the said meeting the respondent No. 1 began to hold himse'f out to be 
a prospective candidate for the House of People from the said constituency. There- 
after the respondent No. 1 continued to hold himself out as such prospective candi- 
date at numerous public and other meetings held at various places in the said 
constituency. 

9. During the course of his election campaign the respondent No. 1 bv himself 
and/or Ills agent or agents held and/or caused to be held and/or consented to the 
holding of numerous meetings in which the -candidature of the respondent No. 1 
was supported by means inter alia of speeches and pamphlets. 

10. (1) One Tarapada Pal Is the Government Pleader, Burdwan District Court 
and Is a person in the service of the Government, One Reb’ndcs Nrith Bandn- 
padhyaya Is the Principal of M.B.C. Institute, Burdwan and Is likewise a person in 
the service o' the Government. The conditions of service of the said Babindra 
Nath Bandopadhyaya inter alia provides that he is not to take part In nnv politi- 
cal activity. Appeals In the nature of pamphlets supporting the candidature of 


•Not published, 



Sec. 8(ii)] THE GAZETT E OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


2403 


the respondent No. 1 was published over the signatures inter alia of the said Tara- 
pada Pal and Rabindra Nath Bandopadhyaya. One of such pamphlet is the anne- 
xure “A"* hereto. 

fii) Furthermore, at the time when the nomination papers of the respondent 
No. 2 were being scrutinised before the Returning Officer the said Tarapada Pal 
■was present before the Returning Officer and was actively assisting the respondent 
No. 1 who was also present, Upon being challenged by the respondent No. 2 as to 
the authority of the said Tarapada Pal to be pres *nt or to render such assistance, 
it was stated by the respondent No. 1 as well as by the said Tarapada Pal that the 
said Tarapada Pal was the agent of the respondent No. 1. 

(iii) In the premises, the respondent No. 1 and/or his agent and other persons 
with the consent of the respondent No, 1 and/or his election agent has obtained 
■and/or procured or attempted to obtain assistance from the said Government ser- 
vants for the— furtherance of the prospects of the election of the respondent No. 1. 

11. The said appeal contained in the said pamphlet included in annexure “A”* 
hereto also contained the names of one Santosh Kumar Basu, Advocate as the Pre- 
sident of the Burdwan Bar Association and one Radhagobindu Hati, Advocate, 
Secretary of the Burdwan Bar Association as the signatories th reof. Your peti- 
tioners state and submit that the impression sought to be conveyed by the said 
appeal to the effect that the appeal was being supported by the members of the 
Bar Association of Burdwan was and is entirely false. In fact the said Santosh 
Kumar Basu and said Radhagoblnda Natl had no authority whatsoever to sub- 
scribe to the said appeal as the President and S cretary of or on behalf of the 
Bar Association, Burdwan. Furthermore, the said Santosh Kumar Basu never was 
nor is an advocate and his description as such was and is incorrect and false. 

12. In the facts and circumstances stated hereinabove your petitioners state and 
submit that: — 

(a) At all material times and in particular on the date of his election, the 

respondent No. 1 was not qualified and/or was disqualified to be elec- 
ted to th? House of People as a member thereof, by virtue of the 
provisions of the Constitution of India and/or the Respresentation of 
the Peoples Act, 1961, 

(b) Various corrupt practices have been committed by the respondent No. 1 

and/or his election agent anchor by other persons with the consent of 
the respondent No. 1 and/or his election agent. 

(c) The result of the said election in so far as it concerns the respondent 

No, 1 has been materially affected inter alia by corrupt practices com- 
mitted In the interests of the respondent No. 1 by agents of the res- 
pondent No. 1 other than his election agent and by non-compliance 
with the provisions of the constitution and/or of the Representation 
at the Peoples Act 1951. 

13. The respondent No. 2 at the said election has in fact received a majority of 
valid votes In any event, but for th? votes obtained by the respondent No. I as 
b result of the corrupt practices mentioned hereinabove the respondent No. 2 would 
have obtained a majority of the valid votes. 

14. In the premises your petitioners pray that the election of the respondent 
No. 1 should be declared to be void. Furthermore your petitioners pray that the 

^respondent No. 2 be declared to have been duly elected at the said election. 

15. If necessary, your petitioners will furnish further details and give better 
particulars in respect of th’ statements made in the various preceding paragraphs 
after discovery and inspection or if required at the time of hearing. 

16. Your petitioners have duly deposited a sum of Rs. 2,000 in the Government 
Treasury at Burdwan in favour of the Election Commission and the Government 
■Treasury receipt showing such deposit is enclosed herewith. 

Your petitioners, therefore, pray 

(a) that It may be declared that the election of the respondent No. 1 in the 

last general election held in February 1962 from the Burdwan Parlia- 
mentary Constituency to the House of People (Lok Sabha) is void. 

(b) that it may be declared that the respondent No. 2 has been duly elected 

at the said election. 

(c) that such other order and direction be given as to costs and otherwise 

as to the Election Tribunal may seem fit and proper. 

And your petitioners, as in duty bound shall ev;r pray. 


•Not published. 




1404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1 962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


Verification 


We, Safari Prasad Ghoshal and Narayan Chandra Ghosh the petitioners above- 
named do declare that the statements contained in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 0 7 g 
9, 10(i) lO(ili), 11 [excepting the second and third sentences thereof) 12,' 13 and 
* rue to our kno . wiec lgo and the statements contained in paragraph 10(ii) 
and the second and thiid sentences of paragraph 11 are based on information 
received from Sri Deb Ranjan Sen and believed by us to be true and those con- 
tained m 14 and 15 hereof are our submissions. - 


Sankari Prasad Ghoshal 
Narayan Chandra Ghosh 

[No. 82|111|02.J 
By Order, 

K. K. SETHI, Under Secy- 


New Delhi, the 12th April 1962 

S.O. 1286. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in tne cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4> 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Shiva Ram, 

Kayasth Sarai, 

Na^ina, Bijnor, 

Khurja 

[No. UP-HP/78/02(l)/35Ol5.1 


S O. 1287. In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 

Rules. 1061, the Election Commission hereby notifies the nanl^ of the person shown 
In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4> 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and win 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months tom 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Names of contesting candidates 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

1. Shri Inder Pal, 

Kalrana 

Mohalla Isra, 


Gangoh, ■ _ , 

District Saharanpur (U.P.). 






Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 yVAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1 


2 


2. Shri Prem Chand, 
Mohaila Karach, 
Jwalapur, 

District Saharanpur, 
(U.P.). 


Kairana 


[No. UP-HP/84/ 62(2)/35021.J 


S.O. 1288. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules. 1901, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account qf his election - expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Names of contesting candidates 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

1. Shri Paras Ram, 

Garhi Malook No. 1, 

Saharanpur 

Saharanpur (U.P.). 


2. Shri Hardeva, 

Saharanpur 

Garhi Malook, 

Saharanpur (UP.). 



[No. UP-HP/85/02(3)/35028.1 


S.O. 1289. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5). of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections. 
Rules, 1901, the Election Commission hereby notifies' the name of the person shown: 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified In the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Mam Raj, 

Village— Bhutol, 

Saharanpur 

P.O. — Jabera, 


District Saharanpur, 



[No. UP-HP/ 85/ 62 (4) 735035.1 





1406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 18 th April 1962 

S.O. 1290— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule be.ow who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has in accord- 
ance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub-rule ( 4 ) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge any account qf his election expenses and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
the date of the said decision, 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Lai Chand C/o 

Amrit Weekly, Karnal, 

Punjab. 

Karnal 

[No. PB-HP/4/62(3)/35007.1 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1962 

S.O. 1291. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person shown 
in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 2 
thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to 
lodge his accounts of election expenses within the time required by law and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 
of the Representation of People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months from 
Mie date of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Laksml Prasad, Sadar Treasurer, 

Chandlyana, Fatepur, (UP,). 

Unnao 


[No. UP-HP/ 19/62 (7) 735655.] 


8.0. 1292. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1901, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in column 
2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in accordance with the decision given 
■today by the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to 
lodge his accounts of election expenses In the manner required by law and will 
accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 7 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months 
from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

'2 

Shri Nem Pal Singh, Village — Chandpur, 
Bulandshahr (U.P.). 

Bulandshahr. 


[No. UP-HP/79/62(5)/35089.J 








Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2 /VAISAKHA 1G, 1884 


S.O. 1293. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, In 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub- 
rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election experses and 
will accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 
7 of the Representative of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months 
from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 


Name of constituency 


1 


2 


Sbri Saryu Prasad Misra, Kahstriya Boarding House, Sakempur 

Deoria. 


[No. UP-HP/43/62(8)/35738.J 

S.O. 1294.— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub- 
rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and 
will accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 
7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two month® 
from the date of the «aid decision. 


Schedule 

Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 

1 

2 

Shri Shiv Acharya, Police Lines, Bulandshahr 

(U.P.) . Bulandshahr 


[No. UP-HP/79/ 62 (6)/ 35849.J 


S.O. 1295.— In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 2 thereof, at the election held in 1962 has, In 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub- 
rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and 
will accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 
7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months 
from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 

Name of constituency 


1 

2 


Shri Raghuvar Dayal, Ram Leela Ground, Talbehat, 
Uttar Pradesh. 

Jhansi 


[No. UP-HP/ 62/62 (10) /35842.1 













1408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5. i 9G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


S.O. 1296, — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Buies, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown In column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
■ corresponding entry In column 2 thereof, at the election heM in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub- 
rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and 
will accordingly become subiect to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 
7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months 
■from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 



Name of contesting candidate 

Name 

of constituency 


1 


2 


Shri Shlbban Lai, 64 Moh. Main Bazar, 

Gorakhpur City 

Hata 


[No. tJP-HP/41/62(9)/35911.] 

S.O. 1297. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 89 of the Conduct of Elections 
Rules, 1961, the Election Commission hereby notifies the name of the person 
shown in column 1 of the Schedule below who having been a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from the constituency specified in the 
•corresponding entry In column 2 thereof, at the election field in 1962 has, in 
accordance with the decision given today by the Election Commission under sub- 
rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge any account of his election expenses and 
will accordingly become subject to the disqualification under clause (c) of section 
7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the expiration of two months 
from the date of the said decision. 


Schedule 


Name of contesting candidate 


Name of constituency 


1 


3 


Shri Ram Chander Singh, S/o Shri Raja Ram, Village Kaithal 
Kharkali, P.O. Gharaunda, District Karnal. 


[No. PB-HP/5/ 02 (4) / 35906,] 


New Delhi, the 27 th April 1902 


S.O. 1298. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
a copy of the Election Petition No. 74 of 1962, presented to the Commission on the 
10th April, 1962, under -section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Kidwai Husain Kamil 
■S/o Shri Imtiaz Ali, Village and P.O, Masauli, District Barabanki, calling in 
question the election to the House of the People from the Bara Banki constituency 
of that House of Shri Ram Sewak Yadav, s/o Shri Ram Ghulam, House No. 127, 
Mohalla Rasoolpur, Nawabganj City, District Barabanki. 




Src . 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAK.HA 15, 1834 


1409 


Presented to me by Shri Kidwai Husain Kami], whose signature has been 
obtained in the margin and attested as having been signed before me this the 
tenth day of April, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty-two. 

Sdl- K, K, SETHI, Under Secy. 

10-4-1902. 

Election Commission, India. 


Sd ./- Kidwai Husain Kamil 
Attested 


Sd./- K. K. Sethi, Under Secy. 

10-4-1962. 

Election Commission India. 

THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Election Petition No, 74 of 1902 relating to the House of People Constituency 
No, 30, Barabanki, Parliamentary Constituency. 

Election held from 21st February 1902 to 25th February 1902 in different 
Assembly Units of this Constituency in Barabanki and Gonda 
Districts. 

Kidwai Husain Kamil, S/o Shri Imtia 2 Ali, village and P.O. Masaull, Dlstt. 
Barabanki — Petitioner, 


Versus 

1. Yadav Ram Sewak, S/o Sri Ram Ghulam, House No. 127, Mohalla 

Rasoolpur, Nawabganj City, Distt. Barabanki. 

2. Sri Krishna Das, S/o Sri Anrudh Das, Village Kusfar, P.O. Daryabad, 

Distt. Barabanki. 

3. Krishna Bihari, S/o Sri Sri Bipin Biharl, Mohalla Naushera, Distt. Gonda. 

4. Autar, S/o Sri Badloo, village Sarsaundi, P.O, Kheoli, Distt. Barabanki — 

Respondents . 

The humble petition of the above-named petitioner, respectfully showeth: — 

1, That your petitioner was a duly nominated candidate at the Election detailed 
above and is entitled to present this petition to question the Election of Yadav 
Ram Sewak, Respondent No. 1, the declaration of whose Election was made by 
the Returning Officer on 28th February 1962, and the same was published in the 
Official Gaaette of India 1962, dated 2nd April, 

2. That the above respondents were also contesting candidates at the said 
Election. 

3, That the election to the House of People was held in the following five 
Assembly Units between 21st February 1902 and 25th February 1962: — 

(i) 148 Nawabganj. 

(ii) 149 Kursi. 

(iii) 150 Bhitauli. 

(iv) 170 Sarju. 

(v) 171 Tarabganj. 

4. That the counting was done in the said five units from 26th February 1902 
to 28th February 1902 and it was declared that the following candidates secured 


votes as noted below against their names: — 

(i) Kidwai Husain Kamil (Congress-Petitioner) 70,224. 

(ii) Yadav Ram Sewak (Socialist) Respondent No. 1 76,545. 

(iii) Sri Krishna Das (Jan Sangh) Respondent No. 2 38,602, 

(iv) Krishna Biharl (Swatantra Party) Respondent No. 3 18,971. 

(v) Autar (Communist) Respondent No. 4 13,134. 



1410 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Paht II 


5. That the Returning Officer declared the Respondent No. 1 as elected by a 
majority of 321 votes. 

6. That the petitioner submits that the election of Respondent No. 1 is void: 
and liable to be set aside on the grounds mentioned below: — 

(A) That the Returning Officer wrongly rejected numerous ballot papers- 

as invalid, which it is submitted were valid. 

(B) That the tendered votes are valid votes and should have been accepted 

and taken into account. 


(C) That there is a discrepancy between the total number of votes shown. 

in forms No. 16 prepared by the Presiding Officers and forms No. 20 
prepared by the Returning Officer. 

(D) That there are glaring mistakes in totalling inter alia as follows: — 

(a) In the total of form No. 20 of 148 Nawabganj, the valid votes- 
mentioned are 51,758 instead of 51,759. 

(bj Again at Polling Station No. 25, Gadia of 148 Nawabganj, the total 
votes shown are 647, but the total of all the votes of various candi- 
dates works out to 637. 

(c) Similarly, at Asenl Polling station No. 35 of 148 Nawabganj, the total 
V ; votes shown are 614, but the total of all the votes obtained by all 
the candidates works out to 624. 

That in the Assembly Constituency, 149 ICursi, at Polling Station. 

* No 92, Dewa, the total votes shown are 655, but the total of votes hi 
all the candidates works out as 755. 

That in form No. 20 of 30-Barabanki Parliamentary Constituency, 

( Which was the final result sheet, the number of rejected postal ballot#- 
were not shown nor the total of Postal ballots received was shown 
In the said form. 

CF1 That numerous ballot papers bearing the requisite mark on the symbol 
( allotted to the petitioner which clearly indicated the intention of the 
voters to vote for the petitioner were wrongly rejected on the giound 
that the mark was at the backside of the symbol. It is submitte 
that this constituted grave violation of the rules on the subject. 

(G) That the Returning Officer improperly rejected valid votes cast m 

favour of the petitioner. 

(H) That numerous ballot papers cast in favour of the petitioner were 

wrongly included in the bundles of Respondents. 

<K> That SSrv’iiuSSS S SntiS of 

to the Returning Officer. 

n t That a serious irregularity in counting, that materially affected the 

SI 

No. 1 were over counted. 

<M> ™L™S““h “bllWipeSo’l !heS“n£nt‘ h lnrw«rwronlw 
counted as votes in their favour. 

(N) That the petitioner received majority of valid votes. 

7. That the Irregularities and ^ = ^submitted ffia^ftTnon^compli^c^with 

affected the result of election and it is submitted ^n t f the ru i es and 

SrSM N °' *; TOld - 

8. That the counting .SS'lo Auitoti a“d\Sf pSSnS 

more than a .dozen tables w th he help « f the counting. ..It was. there- 


more than a dozen tables with toocStiW it was. there 

was allowed only, four or five Countmc Agents dgm Counting Agents to 

s *»”*• “ psrtlc " lars 



Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


the aforesaid irregularities and illegalities can and shall be submitted only after 
inspection for which the petitioner shall in due course apply. 

9, That an application was presented to the Returning Officer by the Election 
Agent of the petitioner on the 28th February, 1882 for a re-count before the result 
was declared. This application was, however, wrongly rejected. 

10. That in some cases, the voters were not given the ballot papers for the 
Parliament. This happened at Polling Station Majgawan in Bhitauli Unit of 30 — 
Barabanki Constituency and a complaint was also lodged before the Presiding 
Officer by Shubrati, Musheb, Zaboora and Masooma, the voters, that they were 
not given the Ballot papers for the Parliament by Sri Baji Lai Yadav, Polling 
Officer at Polling Station No. 29, Majgawan in Bhitauli Unit. Similarly, a com- 
plaint was filed by Sri Khateeb Mahmood, Polling Agent of the petitioner that 
Sri Naeem Beg, voter was not given ballot paper for the Parliament by Sri Ram 
Kripal Yadav, Polling Officer at Kursi Polling Station in Kursi Assembly Unit of 
the petitioner’s constituency. 


If That tlie counting of Bhitauli Assembly Unit started at 9-00 AM on 28th 
1962 at Barabanki. The counting went upto about 8-30 P.M. The 
counting after 5-30 P.M. was continued in deficient and failing light in spite of 


, 12 That the petitioner is confident that if the votes actually cast in favour of 
the petitioner are counted as votes of the petitioner and if the improperly 
accepted yotes which have been counted in favour of other respondents are taken 
out, and if the ballot papers are correctly sorted, counted and bundled, the 
^ es P on ^ GT1 ^ No. 1 wi-ll be found to have polled less votes as compared to your 
petitioner. The petitioner further submits that the result of the Election has been 
materially affected by the improper acceptance and refusal of votes and by the 
incorrect sorting, counting and bundling of ballot papers 


13, That the petitioner further submits that but for the irregularities and 
illegalities mentioned above, the petitioner would have been found as having 
received majority of valid votes and declared elected. 


14. That In the circumstances set forth above, the valid votes in favour of the 
petitioner have been improperly rejected by the Returning Officer and that invalid 
and void votes in favour of the respondents have been accepted by the Returning 
Officer and that the counting was erroneous. 


15. Thgt in the circumstances narrated above, the petitioner submits that the 
present case is a fit case for general scrutiny and re-count. 


16. That the petitioner sent a telegram on the 1st March, 1962 i.e. day following 
the night when the result of the election was declared, to the Election Com- 
missioner, New Delhi, praying that the re-counting be done by an impartial staff. 
This was acknowledged by the Election Commission by a letter dated 5th March, 
1962. The District Congress Committee, Barabanki, also sent a representation to 
the Election Commission to order Re-count. 


17. That the petitioner has deposited as security, a sum of Rs, 2,000, the receipt 
of which is enclosed herewith. 


Therefore, the petitioner prays that the election of Respondent No. 1, be 
declared to be void and the petitioner be declared to have been duly elected. 

Dated; 

The 6th April, 1882. 

Kidwai Husain Kamil, 
Petitioner. 


Verification 

I, Kidwai Husain Kamil, petitioner verify that the contents of paras 1, 2, 3, 18 
artd 17 are verified to be true on his own knowledge and the contents of paras 
4, 5. 6 A to N, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 are verified to be true on Information 
received and believed to be true. 

Verified this the 6th day of April, 1962, at Masaull, district Barabahki. 


Dated; 

The 6th April, 1982, 


Kidwai Husain Kamil, 
Petitioner. 


[No. 82/74/62,] 




1 412 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKIIA 15, 1884 [Part II 


S.O. 1299.' — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 248 of 1962, presented to the Commission 
on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Gurdial Singh 
Dhillon s/o Shri Hazura Singh Dhillon, Patiala, calling in question the election 
to the House of the People from the Patiala constituency of that House of Shri 
Hukam Singh, 21-Ashoka Road, New Delhi. 

Presented to me by Shri Gurdial Singh Dhillon whose signature has been 
obtained in the margin and attested as having been signed before me this the 
twelfth day of April One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty-two. 

Sd./- K. K. Sethi, 
Under Secretary, 
Election Commission India. 

Sd./- Gurdial Singh Dhillon. 

Attested, 

Sd./- K. K, Sethi, 

Under Secretary, 

Election Commission, India. 

BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 
Election Petition No. 548 of 1962 

S. Gurdial Singh Dhillon s/o S. Hazura Singh Dhillon, resident of Patiala— 
Petitioner. 


Versus 

S. Hukam Singh, former Deputy Speaker, Lok Sabha, 21-Ashoka Road, New 
Delhi.— Respondent. 

Election Petition U/Ss. 80 and 81 of The Representation of People Act, 1051 
challenging the election of S. Hukam Singh respondent from the Patiala Parlia- 
mentary Constituency, No. 21 (Punjab State). 

The petitioner prays as follows: — 

1. That the petitioner was a contesting candidate at the election of Patiala 
Parliamentary Constituency in February, 1962. Therefore, he is competent to file 
this petition. 

2. That the polling took place in the entire Patiala Parliamentary Constituency 
on 24th February, 1962, and the counting took place from 25th February 1962, to 
27th February, 1962, and the respondent was declared as duly elected member of 
Lok Sabha from Patiala Parliamentary Constituency on the same day. 

3. That besides the petitioner and the respondent there was another candidate, 
namely, Shri B ansi Lai. All the contesting candidates secured votes as given 


below : — 

(i) Shri Hukam Singh respondent (Congress candidate) . . 154452 

(ii) Shri Gurdial Singh Dhillon Petitioner (Akall Dal candidate) ... 146366 

(lii) Shri Bansi Lai (Jan Sangh candidate) ... 32603 

Invalid votes . . 9854 


3. That the petitioner has deposited a sum of Rs. 2000.00 in the Treasury 
Patiala (State Bank Patiala) as costs for the petition, and a receipt for the same is 
enclosed herewith. 

4. That the election of the respondent S. Hukam Singh is void on the following 
grounds : — 

(1) (a). That there is a religious sect of the Sikhs known as Namdharls, with 
headquarters at Bheni Sahib, District Ludhiana (Punjab State), and its supreme 
spiritual head is Guru Jagjit Singh and his brother is MaharaJ Bir Singh, and their 
place of residence is Shri Jiwan Nagar, District Hissar. This sect is a very well 
knit and well disciplined organisation and the followers of Shri Guru Jagjit Singh 
have implicit faith in him as their Guru (spiritual leader). As a part of their 



Sec. 3(ii)] TI-IE GAZE1 TE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VA1SAKHA IB. 1884 


organisation they have established Subas (Governors’ equivalent) to carry out the 
Far man and behest of their spiritual Guru, There is a substantial number of 
Namdhari voters spread out in the entire Patiala Parliamentary Constituency. 
Dr. Dhian Singh is the General Secretary of the Namdhari Durbar and he resides 
at Samaiia (District Patiala). He is running a Weekly paper in Punjabi (Gurmukhl 
script) by the name “Sacha Marag", being Issued from Samana and Delhi. That 
is their popular weekly paper in the Punjab, and it has got a sufficiently wide 
circulation, Dr. Dhian Singh is its proprietor, editor, printer and publisher, and 
the paper is actually being printed on his behalf at the National Printing Press, 
Patiala. He Is also an active member of the Congress, and during the course of the 
election in question, he lias been actively supporting the candidature of the res- 
pondent and has been working for him throughout the Constituency along with 
{he respondent, The respondent S. Hukam Singh finding the contest very hard and 
realising the strength of Nflmdhari voters, maae an approach to Guru Jugiit Singh 
and Maharaj Bir Singh to issue commands to their followers in the Constituency to 
vote for him, and as" a result of this approach meetings were held at Samana, 
.Doraha, Nabha etc., etc. The meetings at Samana and Nabha were held on or 
about 4th February 1062 and were addressed by Dr. Dhian Singh and S. Hukam 
Singh, where Dr. Dhian Singh told the audience that it was the command of their 
Guru that the Namdhari Panth must vote for the respondent, S. Hukam Singh, and 
every Namdhari should strive his best to enlist as much support of their friends 
and acquaintances as possible and the Namdharls who would not obey the com- 
mand of their Guru, would incur his displeasure. The meeting at Doraha was held 
on or about 11th February, 1962, and there too Suba Gurbflkhsh Singh, member 
Election Committee, Namdhari Durbar, communicated the same command of their 
Guru to the Namdharls. 

(b) That the respondent S. Hukam Singh and his agent Dr. Dhian Singh with 
his consent got issued a Farman of Sri Satguru .Tagjit Singhji Maharaj under the 
signatures of Maharaj Bir Singh to the voters of Namdhari Panth in the said "Sacha 
Marag” in its issue of 15th February 1962. The words: “Sri Satguru .Tagjit Singh 

. Ji Maharaj Da Farman” were printed in bold letters on the first page of the issue 
and it carried the photos of Sri Satguru Jagjit Singh and Maharaj Bir Singh on the 
left side and the photo of the respondent S. Hukam Singh on the right side and it 
also carried the photo of two bullocks with yoke on (the Congress election symbol). 

The Farman read as follows: — 

“In accordance with the desire (Ichheya) of Sri Satguru Jagjit Singhji 
Maharaj, the Namdhari voters of Patiala Constituency are being told 
that they are to make S. Hukam Singhji successful for the membership 
of Parliament (Lok Sabha) by casting their valuable votes in his favour, 
Besides this, they should make him successful by casting maximum 
votes for him by persuading their friends and acquaintances. 

Sd./- Maharaj Bir Singh, 

Slri Jiwan Nagar, Ziga Hissar, 

17th Magh 2018,” 

This issue of “Sacha Marag” was as usual got printed at the 
Press, Patiala by its proprietor and editor, Dr. Dhian Singh, and 
by him throughout the Constituency. 

(c) That about 1500 copies of this issue of "Sacha Marag” were printed under 
the orders of the respondent and his agent Dr. Dhian Singh with his consent while 
ordinarily only 500 copies of this paper Were printed and published every week 
These 1500 copies were freely distributed under their instructions throughout the 
Constituency and especially at places like Patiala, Nabha, Samana, Rajpura Sar- 
hind, Bhadson, Devi Garh, Doraha from 15th February 1962 to 22nd February 
1962. 

(d) That an election meeting was held at Devi Garh on or about 17th February 
1962 and was addressed by the respondent and his agent Dr. Dhian Singh with his 
consent and at that meeting Dr. Dhian Singh read out the contents of the Farman 
Issued in “Sacha Marag” of 15th February 1962. A similar meeting was held at 
Rajpura on or about 18th February 1962 and there too Dr. Dhian Singh read out 
the same Farman issued in “Sacha Marag” and commanded the Namdhari voters to 
vote for the respondent. Another meeting was held at Doraha on or about 21st 
February, 1962 where too in presence of the respondent, Suba Gurbakhsh Singh 
(member of the Namdhari Election Committee) read out the same Farman and 
commanded the Namdhari voters to vote for the respondent. 

(e) That the election offices of the petitioner and the respondent in Patiala 
were quite near to each other situated on the same road and the workers in both 


National Printing 
it was published 




1414 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1963/VAISAK.HA 16 , 1884 [Pakt II 


the offices generally met each other and exchanged their notes regarding the elec- 
tion campaign. On the morning of 16th February 1962, the petitioner’s worker, 
Shri Shangara Singh, got the news about the said Issue of ‘‘Sacha Marag”. On that 
he went to the respondent’s office and as the respondent and some of his Namdharl 
workers were sitting in the office he came back and some time after that he 
again went there and got a copy of the said issue from the respondent’s office, 
which he passed on to the petitioner. The same marked “A”* is enclosed here- 
with. 

As the respondent and his agents and workers with his consent, as mentioned 
in para 4(1) [sub-paras (a) to (e)] above, have directly or indirectly interfered or 
have attempted to interfere with the free exercise of the electoral right of casting 
votes by the Namdharl voters in the Patiala Parliamentary Constituency, therefore, 
they have committed the corrupt practice of undue influence. 

(II) That the respondent hip agents and workers with his consent have com- 
mitted the corrupt practice of making an appeal to vote for respondent on the 
ground of religion and community for the furtherance of the prospects of respond- 
ent’s election and prejudicially affecting the election of the petitioner aa 
mentioned in Para 4(1) (sub-paras (a) to [(e) thereof] above. 

(III) That the Returning Officers did not comply with the provisions of the 
Representation of People Act, 1951 and the rules made thereunder in conducting 
the counting of votes as mentioned below: — 

That thousands of valid votes polled in favour of the petitioner were Illegally 
declared Invalid and invalid votes polled in favour of the respondent were Illegally 
declared valid, and the number of such votes Is so large that the result of the elec- 
tion in so far as it concerns the election of the respondent candidate has been mat- 
erially affected. — 

That the ballot papers and the other relevant election record were not sealed by 
the Returning Officers Immediately after the conclusion of the counting and the 
same were not deposited into the Government Treasury. 

That the applications for recounting submitted by the counting agents of the 
respondent at all the counting centres were not considered and they were arbi- 
trarily returned without passing any orders on them. 

That the petitioner himself also submitted an application to the Returning Offi- 
cer, Patiala Parliamentary Constituency, Patiala on 27th February 1902, for re- 
counting of votes, but that too was rejected without assigning any valid reasons. 


As the efforts of the petitioner for getting the election papers mentioned above 
deposited in Government Treasury have failed, therefore, he submitted an applica- 
tion to the Secretary, Election Commission, New Delhi on 12th March 1902 and he 
received a reply to that vide Election Commission’s letter No. 6I/PB/62/28103 
dated 23rd March 1962 to the effect that the Returning Officer had been directed to 
deposit the .election records in safe custody in the Treasury at Patiala. Even then, 
the Returning Officer did not comply with this order. 

The petitioner had submitted telegrams and applications to the Chief Electoral 
Officer, Chandigarh and the Election Commission New Delhi regarding the non- 
compliance with the said provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder. 


As the above stated facts have materially affected the result of the election in 
so far as It concerns the election of the returned candidate, therefore, a re-examlna- 
tion and re-count of the ballot papers Is prayed for. 

9. That as the respondent, his agents and workers with his consent have com- 
mitted the corrupt practices under section 123(2) and 123(3) of the Representation 
of People Act, 195 1, and as the non-compliance by the Returning Officers with the 
provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and the rules made thereunder 
nave materially affected the result of the election in so far as it concerns the elec- 
tion of the returned candidate, therefore, it Is prayed that the election of the 


♦Not printed. 



■Sec. 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, I962/VAISAKHA 13, 1884 


respondent S. Hukam Singh from the Patiala Parliamentary Constituency of Punjab 
State held in February, 1962 be declared void and the costs of the petition be award- 
ed against him. 


The Petitioner, 

S, Gurdial Singh Dhillon 
s/o S. Hazura Singh Dhillon, 
r/o Patiala (Punjab). 
Through 


S. Shamsher Singh Bedi, Advocate, 
HoBhiarpur. 


Enclosures : — 


1. Treasury Receipt 

for Rs. 2000.00 only. 

2, Copy of "Sacha Marag” marked 

"A”. 


3. Affidavit in Form 25. 


Verification 

I, S. Gurdial Singh Dhillon, the above named petitioner do hereby declare on 
solemn affirmation that the contents of Paras 1 to 3 of the petition are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge and the contents of para 4 of the petition are 
true and correct to the best of my information and belief. 

Verified at Hoshiarpur, 

This 11 th day of April, 1962. 

Gurdial Singh Dhillon, Petitioner. 

[No. 82/248/62.] 

New Delhi the 30 th April 1962 

S.O. 1300. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No. 117 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the 11th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shiv Kumar, 
son of Shri Ram Chandra Singh, Madrak, Post Office Shahpur Madrak (U.P.) 
calling in questidJPthe election to the House of the People from the Aligarh consti- 
tuency of that House of Shri B. P. Maurya, son of Shn Bipti Ram, Thapar House, 
Moris Road, Aligarh. 

Sd/- 

Shiv Kumar, 

Signature 

Attested 


Sd /- 

K K. Sethi, 

11-4-1962 
Under Secretary, 

Election Commission India. 


Presented to mo by Shri Shiv Kumar whose signature has been obtained in 
“the margin and attested as having been signed before me this the eleventh day 
of April One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty two. 

K Sd./. K. K. Sethi, 

11-4-1962 


Under Secretary, 
Election Commission, India. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA, NEW DELHI 


Election Petition No. 117 of 1962 


In the matter of: 

An election petition under Section 80 read with Section 81 of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951 (amended upto date) 


AND 


In the matter of: 

Electio* to the Parliament (The House of the People) from Aligarh Parlia- 
mentary Constituency No. 77, the date of the declaration of the 
Election being 1st March 1962. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


AND 


In the matter of: 

Shri Shiv Kumar son of Earn Chandra Singh, Madrak, Post Office Shahpur 
Madrak (U.P.)— Petitioners. 

V.ersus 

1. Shri B. P. Maurya, son of Bipti Ram, Thapar House, Moris Road, Aligarh. 

2. Shri Jagan Nath, son of Ram Parsad, Post Office Bareni, District Etah. 

3. Jarrar Haider, son of Nisar Hyder, 173, Dhudpur, Yasin Manzil, Nagar 

Palika, Aligarh. 

4. Shri Nahar Singh, son of Dharam Singh, Village and P.O. Kuarsi, Tehsil 

Koil, District Aligarh. 

5. Shri Vasant Rao, son of Krishna Rao, c/o Sahu Laxmi Narain Ji, Delhi 

Gate, Aligarh— -Respondents. 


AND 


In the matter of: — 

(a) Declaration of the Election of the Returned Candidate, Shri B, P. 

Maurya, respondent No. 1, to the Parliament from Aligarh Parlia- 
mentary Constituency No. 77 to be void, and 

(b) Declaration that the petitioner himself has been duly elected, 

The humble petition of the above-named petitioner Most respectfully 
aheweth: — 

1. That the humble petitioner is a citizen of India and is an elector to the 
Parliament of India, having been enrolled as such in 77-Aligarh, Parliamentary 
Constituency at No. 382 Koil (S.C.l Assembly Constituency part 387 serial No. 1422, 
and is fully qualified to be elected as a member of the Parliament. (The Houge 
of the People). 

2. That the President of India by an appropriate notification published in the 
Gazette of India, called upon the Aligarh Parliamentary Constituency No. 77,. 
amongst others to elect a member to the House of the People and the authorises 
fixed "19th, 21st and 25th February, 1962, fixed as the dates on which the poll waa 
to be taken. 

3. That the petitioner was not affiliated with any political party and filed his 
nomination paper duly filled in, as prescribed by the Representation ol the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules, thereunder. 

4 That out of the opposite parties respondent No. 1 was selected as a candi- 
date’ by the Republican Party of India, whereas the Respondents 2, 3 and 5 were 
selected by Rama Rajya Parishad, the Congress Party and the Swatantra Party 
respectively. Shri Nahar Singh, respondent, an Honorary Magistrate at Aligarh, 
was also not affiliated with any party. 


5. That the respondents as well as Shri Bankey Lai and Shri Niwas filed their 
nomination papers duly filled in, as prescribed by the Act and the Rules there- 
under. 


6. That the nomination papers were scrutinised by the Returning Officer and 
were found in order. 

7 That thereafter Shri Bankey Lai and Shri Shri Niwas withdrew their candi- 
dature under Section 37 of the Act and the parties to this petition were left as 
“contesting candidates”. 

8. That the Election symbols of the petitioners and the respondents were as 
under: — 


(i) Shri Shiv Kumar, petitioner 

(ii) Shri B. P. Maurya, respondent No, 1 
(in) Jagan Nath, respondent No, 2 

(iv) Jarrar Haider, respondent No. 3 

(v) Nahar Singh, respondent No, 4 

(vi) Vasant Rao, respondent No. 5 


“Horse and Rider”. 

“Elephant". 

“Rising Sun". 

“Two Bullocks with yoke on". 
“Bicycle”. 

“Star”. 


Sec. Mi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15,- 1864 


1417 


9. That the aforesaid Parliamentary Constituency comprises five state Assembly 
Constituencies and the polls in those constituencies were taken on three different 
dates, so the polling for the aforesaid constituency was also spread over three- 
days. 

10. That thereafter polling took place on 19th February 1962, 21st February, 
1962, and 25th February 1962 and the votes were counted on 26th February and 
27th February, 1962 and on such counting it was declared that the petitioner and 


the respondent polled votes as follows'. — 

Petitioner 70,646 

Respondent No. 1 Shri B. P. Maurya 73,751 

Respondent No. 2, Shri Jagan Nath 7,365 

Respondent No. 3, Shri Jarrar Haider 37,148 

Respondent No. 4 Shri Nahar Singh 34,029 

Respondent No. 5, Shri Vasant Rao 19,493 


1J. That in the ordinary course of events the Returning Officer would have 
declared the result of the election on the 27th February, 1962, soon after the com- 
pletion of the counting, but as he found that there had been no real electing in 
the constituency, he deferred the declaration till after there was a serious contro- 
versy and activity behind the curtain and declared on the 1st March, 1962, that 
the respondent No, 1 was the successful candidate. 

12. That the constituency had not had a fair and free opportunity of electing’ 
the candidate whom the majority preferred and that by reason of irregularities 
the majority have been prevented from electing the candidate whom they prefer, 
is manifestly clear from the following facts:— 

(a) Rule 5(1) of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961 provides for symbols for 
elections in Parliamentary constituencies and lays down as follows: — 

“(1) The Election Commission shall, by notification in the Gazette of India 
specify the symbols that may be chosen by the candidates at elections 
in Parliamentary constituencies and the restrictions to which their 
choice shall be subject”. 

(b) Election Commission, India, vide its notifleahon No. S.O. 2316, dated the 
19th September. 1961, published in Government of India Gazette laid downi 
directions regarding the choice of symbols to be made by candidates and sp- rifled' 
restrictions. 

(c) The petitioner and the respondents chose their symbols in accordance 
with these rules and the ballot papers were to bo printed in accordance with the 
rules and instruction of the Election Commission, India and on each of the ballot 
paper the names of the candidates and against each name the symbol chosen by 
that candidate were to be given. 

(d) After "the allotment of symbols to the parties to this petition a notification 
to that effect was published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II Section 
3 sub-section (ii), dated 5th February, 1962. 

(«) The basic principle on which the selection of these symbols is provided 
is that the majority of electors in India arc illiterate, that when the 
names of all the contesting candidates are shown on one ballot paper, there is a 
great possibility that majority of the electors may not be able to decipher the 
names of the candidates of their choice; and that, therefore, to facilitate them to 
find out the candidate of their choice a provision for a symbol for each candidate 
was made. In this way the electors were afforded an opportunity of free and 
fair election and a check against misleading them Thus the provision regarding’ 
the symbols and their printing on the face of the ballot papers is neither a 
formality nor a triviality, but on the othei hand is something substantial man- 
datory and absolute which must be carried out before the ballot paper is handed 
ovc-r to an elector and the failure of carrying out of which would be something 
calculated in reality to affect the result of the election. In fact without a propel 
ballot paper, there Is no proper and effectual election, 

(f) On the top of the official ballot paper the name of Jagan Nath candidate, 
with “Rising Sun”, as his symbol and at its bottom the name of Shiv Kumar 
petitioner with "Horse and Rider” as his symbol were to be provided. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISARHA IB, 1884 


[Part II 


1418 


(g) Th- Parliamentary Constituency No, 77 was divided into three parts for 
the purposes of holding elections and it was announced that the votes would be 
cast as below: — 


Iglas "1 

Tappal Y 

Koll cum Khalr j 

Koil reserved 
Aligarh City 


1 9-2-1982. 


21-2-1962. 

25-2-1962. 


(h) The manner of printing ballot papers is simple. First a block is prepared 
and from that block papers are printed, In this case one block was prepared on 
which sub block of the symbol of the petitioner was not given against his name 
on the main block and from this incomplete and defective block about fifty 
thousand defective ballot papers were printed. 


m Such ballot papers were issued on a large number of polling booths and m 
Nangla Padm Polling Station in Tappal Tehsil the defect was detected on 19th 
Februarv 1962 and the Returning Officer conveyed the defect to the Election 
Commission, but inspite of this the polling which was to take place on 21st 
February 1962 and 25th Februury 1962 was not suspended and was carried on 
with the defective ballot papers, resulting into the failure of the Election com- 
mission to provide a fair and free opportunity of electing a candidate whom the 
electors preferred, This was fraud on the electorate and the petitioner, and has 
materially effected the result of the election. 


(j) The ubsence of the election symbol of the petitioner on the ballot papers 
provided a handle to the respondent No, 1, his agents and supporters with his con- 
sent to carry on a false propaganda, which they ' actually did on 19th February 
1962 at all Polling Stations within the jurisdiction of Iglas, Tappal, Koil cum 
Khair areas, 20th February 1962 and 21st February 1962 at Koil reserved area 
and on 20th February 1962 to 25th February 1962 at Aligarh City Area, and 
which was to the effect that the petitioner had withdrawn his candidature and 
was not contesting the election and that, therefore, his symbol was not given on 
the ballot papers. This propaganda respondent No. 1 either believed to be false 
or did not believe to be true and was actually calculated to prejudice the pros- 
pects of the election of the petitioner and thus the respondent No. 1, was 
guilty of a corrupt practice under section 123(4) of the Representation of the 
People Act. This misled several thousand illiterate electors in their failure to 
exercise their right of franchise, This is evidenced by letters, 'Annexures A, B, 
C, D, E, F, G, H, J and K. 


(k) The petitioner received several letters from electors conveying the 
amount of incalculable harm which was being caused to his chances and prospects 
of the election due to the defective ballot papers and as the election fever was 
at its height and the public meetings, speeches, propaganda etc, were banned he 
had neither chance, nor time, nor money, nor means, to dispel away the general 
impression that was created in the Constituency and the direction of the Rules 
were so departed from as to mislead the electors from exercising their right of 
franchise in favour of the candidate of their choice. 

(l) That in all there were about 4,75,000 votes out of whom* 2,55,696 have 
voted and the votes cast in favour of the petitioner and the respondent No. 1 are 
as follows: — 


Petitioner 70,546 

Respondent No. 1 73,751 

As compared with the total number of votes cast the difference between the 
votes cast in favour of the petitioner and those in favour of the respondent No. 1, 
is so small that but for the defective ballot papers and the mischievious pro- 
paganda, the petitioner would have come out successful with a large majority. 
Thus the election of respondent No. 1 is void: — 

(a) Under Section 100(d) (iv) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 

(amended upto date) for the result of the election so far It concerned 
the returned candidate w T as materially affected for non-compliance 
with the provision of the rules and the Act, and 

(b) Under Section 123(4) because the respondent No. 1, his agents and 

supporters with hl« consent oarried ©* a false propaganda whleh he 


•Annexures A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J a«d ^ not published. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA IS, 1881 


1419 


either believed to be false or did not believe to be true, which was 
to the effect that the petitioner had withdrawn his candidature and 
was not contesting the election and that, therefore, his symbol was 
not printed on the ballot papers. The Communist Party was 
amongst the supporters of the respondent No. 1 following a pact 
between them. 

13. That before the declaration of the result of the election the petitioner 
had made an application to the Returning Officer for “Recount” but the same 
was refused. If “Recount” had been made it would have made it clear that 
there were many ballot papers which had not the symbol of the petitioner printed 
on them and they should not have been considered as wasted or rejected votes; 
that there were other ballot papers which were validly cast in favour of the 
petitioner, but were illegally rejected and that there were still other votes which 
were invalid and void and were illegally and improperly received in favour of 
the respondent No, 1. Therefore a Recount” is necessary now and its result 
would be in favour of the petitioner, Thus the petitioner is entitled to a declara- 
tion that he, himself, is duly elected. 

14. That in order to find out the number of ballot papers with the symbol 
Of the petitioner not printed on them, the used ballot papers i.e., challenged 
votes, tendered votes, rejected votes, valid votes and unused ballot papers need 
an inspection, which may kindly be granted with due regard to the urovisinns 
of the Act and the Rules thereunder. 

15. That for the reasons above mentioned, it is submitted that the entire 
election, to the House of the People from the 77-Aligarh Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency is no election in the eve of law and is void ab initio Moreover due to 
non-compliance with the provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1051 
and the rules and orders made under the said Act, the result of the election’ in so 
far as it concerned respondent No. 1, the returned candidate, has been materially 
affected. 

16. That the petitioner as required u/s 117 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, has on 3rd April 1962 deposited two thousand rupees in favour of the 
Election Commission India, in the (government Treasury, Aligarh, as security for 
the costs of the petition, The original Treasury Receipt Is annexure ‘L’. 

17. In the premises aforesaid, it is prayed that this petition bo referred to an 

Election Tribunal for trial and for orders for the following reliefs: 

(a) Declaration that the Election of the Returned Candidate viz respondent 

No. 1. Shri B. P. Maurya is void, 

(b) Declaration that the petitioner himself has been duly elected. 

(e) Direction tor the inspection of the ballot-challenged votes, tendered 
votes, rejected votes, valid votes and the unused ballot papers. 

(d) Declaration that because of the Commission ot a corrupt practice under 

Section 123(4) of the R.P.A. the respondent now, has entailed dis- 
qualification for Membership of the Parliament and of the Legislature 
for every State in the Union of India for six years under Section 140 
of the Representation of the People Act. 

(e) Directing the respondents to pay to the petitioner the costs and inci- 

dental expenses to this petition. 

(f) Any other relief, which the Tribunal may deem fit, under the circum- 

stances of the case. 


Shiv Kumar, son of Ram Chander 
Singh, Madrak, Post Office 
Shanpur, Madrak. 

Petitioner. 


through 


(Shri Mehar Singh Chadha) 
and 

(Shri Som Nath Marwaha) 
Advocates. 



1420 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962 VALNAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Verification 

I, Shiv Kumai-j petitioner, herein above verity that whatever has been stated 
in the above petition in paras 1 to 9 and 16 is true to my knowledge and contents 
of paras 10 to 15 are verified as true to the best of my knowledge and upon, 
information received and believed to be true and the rest are submissions. 


Verified at Delhi, this 10th day o£ April, 1962. 


SHrv Kumar, . 

Petitioner.. 


Schedule ‘M’ 


Particulars of the corrupt practice 


(1) The absence qf the election symbol of the petitioner on the ballot papers 
provided a handle to the respondent No. 1, his agents and supporters with his. 
consent to carry on a false propaganda which they actually did on 19th February 
1962 at all polling stations within the jurisdiction of Iglas, Tappal, Koil cum Khair 
area, 20th February 1962 and 21st February 1962 at Koil Reserved area and on 
20th February 1962 to 25th February 1962 at Aligarh City area, and which was 
to the effect that the . petitioner had withdrawn his candidature and was not 
contesting the election and that, therefore, his symbol was not given on the ballot 
papers, This propaganda respondent No. 1 either believed to be false or did not 
believe to be true and was actually calculated to prejudice the prospects of the' 
election of the petitioner and thus the respondent No. l was guilty of a corrupt 
practice under Section 123(4) of the Representation of the People Act. This mis- 
led several thousand illiterate electors in their failure to exercise their right of 
franchise. This is evidenced by letters, Anncxurcs A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J and K 


(2) The petitioner received several letters from electors conveying the amount 
of Incalculable harm which was being caused to his chances and prospects of the 
election due to the defective ballot papers and as the election fever was at its 
height and the public meetings, speeches, propaganda etc. were banned he had 
neither chance nor time, nor money nor means to dispel away the general 
impression that was created in the Constituency and the direction of the rules 
were so departed from as to mislead the electors from exercising their right of 
franchise in favour of the candidate of their choice. 


Verification 


Verified that the contents of this document are true to the best of my 
knowledge and upon information received and believed to be true. 

Verified at Delhi this 10th day of April, 1962. 


Shiv Kumar, 

Petitioner. 

[No, 82/117/62.] 


New Delhi, the 1st May, 1962 


S.O. 1301.— In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 86 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby pub- 
lishes a copy of the Election Petition No, 202 of 1962, presented to the Commis- 
sion on the 12th April, 1962, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Ajit Singh 
3/0 Shrl Sajjan Singh, village Margindpura, P, S. Bhikhlwind— Zail Dial- 
pura, Tahsil Patti, District Amritsar, calling in question the election to the 
House of the People from the Tarn Taran, constituency of that House of Shri 
Surjit Singh Majithia s/o Shri Sunder Singh Majithia, Majithia House, Albert 
Road, Amritsar. 


Sf.c... 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1982/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


Presented to me by Shrl Ajit Singh whose signature has been obtained In. 
the margin and attested as having been signed before me this the twelfth day 
of April, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty-two. 

Sd./- K. K. Sethi, Under Secy. 

Election Commission India. 

Election Petition No. 202 of 1962 
Before the Election Commission, New Delhi 

Ajit Singh son of Sh. Sajjan Singh, resident of village Margindpura, P.S. 
Bhikliiwlnd — Zail Dialpura, Tehsil Patti, Dlst. Amritsar.— Petitioner. 

versus 

Sh. Surjit Singh Majithia son of Sh, Sunder Singh Majithia, Majithia House,. 
Albeit Road, Amritsar.— Respondent. 

Election petition under sec. 81 of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, 
read with sec. 100 of the said Act for declaring the election of the respondent 
(the returned candidate) to the House of People from Tarntaran Parliamentary 
Constituency to be void. 

Sir, 

It is respectfully submitted as under: — 

1. That the petitioner is an elector duly entered as a voter at serial No, 2811, 
of vill, Margindpura in Zail Dialpur, Thana Bhikhiwind of Khaira Assembly 
constituency of the Punjab Legislative Assembly which falls in Tarntaran Parlia- 
mentry Constituency and as such is entitled to file this election petition against 
the Returned candidate (Respondent) from the Tarntaran Parliamentary Con- 
stituency, 

2. That the election of the House of People from Tarntaran Constituency was 
held on 24th February, 1962 in which the respondent was declared successful on, 
28th February, 1962. 

3. That the election of the respondent as a Returned candidate to the House 
of People from Tarntaran Parliamentry Constituency is void on account of the 
commission of the following corrupt practice: — 

(a) That the Respondent (the Returned candidate) obtained and procured 
the assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of his election from Sh. 
Sadhu Singh son of Sh. Lakha Singh of village Khambo, Tehsil Zira, Distt, 
Ferozepur, in the Service of the Government as member of the Armed Forces 
of the Union and is posted as a sepoy no. 10,27,780 (Sowar) 62 Cavalry c/o 
66 A.P.O. The said Sh. Sadhu Singh was duly appointed as a polling agent of 
the respondent and acted and attended at police station No. 53 at Government 
Primary School, Thatha, Tahsll Patti, when the poll was held on 24th February, 
1962. This appointment of the said polling agent Sh, Sadhu Singh a member oi 
the Armed forces of the Union was duly made by Sh. Bishen Singh son of Inder 
Singh, r/o Rai chak c/o Majitha House, Amritsar, the election agent of the 
respondent. Full particulars of the corrupt practices are given in schedule A 
enclosed herewith. 

4. That the petitioner has deposited Rs. 2,000 as security for the costs of this 
petition as required under sec. 117 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951. The receipt of which is enclosed herewith. 

5. It is, therefore, respectfully prayed that the petition be accepted with costs 
by declaring the election of the respondent (the Returned candidate) to the 
House of the People from Tam Taran Parliamentry constituency (in the state of 
the Punjab) to be void. 


Petitioner, 

Ajit Singh son of Sajjan Singh, 
Margindpura, Zail Dyalpur, Thana Bhikhiwind, 
Tehsil Patti, Distt., Amritsar. 

Ajit Singh. 


Dated 11th April, 1962. 




^422 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/ VAIS A KHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Verification 

Tlie above-named petitioner does hereby verify that the contents of paras 1 
to 4 of this petition are true and correct to the best of the petitioner’s knowledge 
-and belief, Para No. 5 is a prayer clause. Verified at Jullundur this 11th day of 
April, 1962. 

Ajit Singh, Petitioner. 


Dated 11 th April, 1962. 

I attest that this is true copy of the original petition. 


Ajit Singh, 


BEFORE THE ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI. 

Ajit Singh son of Sh, Sajjan Singh resident of village Marginpura, P. S. 
Bhikhiwind, tehsil Patti, District Amritsar.— Petitioner. 

versus 

Sh. Surjit Singh Majithia son of Sh, Sunder Singh Majithia, Majithia House, 
Albert Road, Amritsar.— Respondent. 

Election petition under sec. 81, of the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, 
read with sec, 100 of the said Act for declaring the election of the respondent 
(the returned candidate) to the House of People from Tarntaran Parliamentary 
Constituency to be void. 

Schedule ‘A’ 


Sir, 

It is respectfully submitted as under: — 

1 That the respondent appointed Shri Bishen Singh son of Inder Singh 1 of 
Rai Chak c/o Majithia House, Amritsar as his election agent for the election m 

dispute. 

? That said Bishen Singh obtained and procured the assistance of Sh. Sadhu 
Sins'll a Government servant (member of the Armed Forces of the Union) serving 
af I sepoy No S, 780 (Sowar) 62 Cavalry c/o 56 A.P.O for the : furtherance of 
the nrospects of tke respondent’s election by appointing him as a polhne agent at 
p h ollmg Itation No. 53 at Government Primary School Thatha where the polling 
agent acted and attended the poll on 24th February, 1962. 

a That the petitioner was the polling agent of Sh. Gurwaryam Singh an 

StfESd Sh sffi Itagh acting as Polling .gent ol th. respondent. 
The names of some of the voters are 

(1) Harpal Singh son of Mohan Singh of Thatha. 

(2) Smt. Gurdeep Kaur w/o Mohan Singh of Thatha. 

(3) Sh. Geja Singh son of Roda Singh of Thatha etc., etc., and 
(A) suchha Singh Ex-member, Panchayat, Thatha. 

(5) Kapur Singh member panchayat, Thatha and several others who will 


be produced at the enquiry of the trial. 


Petitioner, 

A. tft CcTMfm 


Verification . # * 

Verified that the contents of the above petition are true to the best of my 
knowledge and belief. Verified at Jullundur this 11th day of April, 1962. 

Ajit Singh, Petitioner. 

I attest that this is the true copy of the Schedule attached to the original 
petition. Ajit glNGHt 

TNo. 82/202/62.1 


By ©rder, 

C. B. LAL, Under Secy. 




Sec, 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1864 


1423 - 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1902 

S.O. 1302. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 13C of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, the Election Commission 
hereby cancels its notification No. 429/18/01, dated the 1st December, 1901. 

[No. 429/18/02.) 


New Delhi, the 25th April 1902 

S.O. 1303. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 13A of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (43 of 1950), the Election 
Commission, in consultation with the Government of Mysore, hereby nominates 
Shri T. J. Ramakrishnan, I.A.S., as the Chief Electoral Officer for the State of 
Mysore with effect from the date he takes over charge and until further orders. 

[No. 154/9/02.)' 

By Order, 

PRAKASH NARAIN, 
Secy, to the Election Commission. 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1962 


S.O. 1304. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 80 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes a copy of the Election Petition No, 66 of 1962, presented to the Com- 
mission on the Ninth April, 1902, under section 81 of the said Act, by Shri Muthiah, 
son of Shri Mayandi Thevar. residing at Sankarapuram, Periyakulam Taluk, 
Madurai District, Madras State, calling in question the election to the House of 
the People from the Periyakulam constituency of that House of Shri Malaichamy 
Thevar, son of Maharaja Muthuveera Thevar, residing at Karunkattankulam, 
Chinnamanur, Periyakulam Taluk, Madurai District, Madras State. 


Received by Registered Post this the ninth day of April, One 
Hundred and sixty two. 


Thousand Nine 
Sd/- 


PRAKASH NARAIN, Secy. 


BEFORE THE! ELECTION COMMISSION, NEW DELHI 


Election Petition No. 66 of 1962. 

Between 

Petitioner: 

Muthiah 

And 

Respondents, 

1. Malaichamy Thevar; 

2. N. Ponnusamy; 

Election Petition humbly presented by the above-named petitioner moat: 
respectfully showeth: — 

I. Petitioner: — 

Muthiah, son of Mayandi Thevar aged 48, residing at Sankarapuram, Periya- 
kulam Taluk, Madurai District, Madras State. 

The address for service of all summons and notices on the above-named 
petitioner is as stated above. 

II. Respondents: — 

(1) Malaichamy Thevar, son of Maharaja Muthuveera Thevar residing at 

Karunkattankulam, Chinnamanur, Periyakulam Taluk, Madurai 
District, Madras State. 

(2) N. Ponnusamy, son of Nallalagirisamy Chettiar, residing at Door 

Number 290, 14th Ward, Cumbum. Periyakulam Taluk, Madurai 
District, Madras State. 




1424 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19 G 2 /VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


III. An election was held on 19th February 1962 for the election of a member 
to represent the Periyakulam Constituency in the Lok Sabha. The said Consti- 
tuency was comprised of five Madras State Assembly Constituencies, viz, 
Uthamapalayam, Bodinaickenur, Theni, Kodaikanal, and Andipatty (Reserved). 

IV. The petitioner and the respondents were the contesting candidates at the 
election, A total of 3,10,868 votes were polled. The 1st respondent secured 
.1,46,829 of the votes accepted as valid. The petitioner 1,43,930 and the respondent 
12,357. The Returning Officer rejected as many as 7,752 votes as invalid. The 
1st respondent was declared to have been duly elected on 27th February 1962. 

V. The first respondent was the Official Candidate of the Congress Party — The 
Ruling Party— and as such he had the sympathy and assistance of some of the 
-Officers of the Government, and was in a position to obtain and procure the 
.Assistance of many Government Officers. 

VI. The Returning Officer had employed as many as 3,750 persons either as 
.Polling Officers or clerks or in other capacities on “Election Duty”. The 
Returning Officer himself appoints such person to their respective Election Duties, 
gives them the necessary training and instructions, It is the Returning Officer 
himself that posts them to Particular Booths or Polling Places in the consti- 
tuencies. Part II of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, provides for the issue 
of Ballot Papers to such “voters on election duty.” Rule 20 provides for an 
application in Form 12 to be made by the “voters on election Duty”. It is pro- 
vided that the Returning Officer shall issue Ballot Papers to him. It has also 
•to be mentioned that it is the Returning Officer that supplies to persons selected 
by him to assist in “election duty”, applications in Form 12 for being fully filled 
up and delivered. It is learnt that all such voters on election duty numbering 
3,750 made such applications to the Returning Officer. But no Ballot Paper was 
issued to any of them, in the whole of the Periyakulam Constituency. Ballot 
Papers were refused to be issued for these 3,750 voters. Persons entitled to vote 
have been prevented from exercising their franchise. It is submitted that an 
illegality has been committed in setting at naught mandatory provisions of the 
Rules forcibly preventing these persons from voting. Very large number of 
these persons had promised their support to the petitioner during the days of 
canvassing and were expected to give their votes to him. Whatever that may 
he, the number of persons who were denied their electoral right exceeded the 
difference between the votes secured by the first respondent and the petitioner. 
It Is also learnt that large numbers of Ballot paper had been supplied in a lump 
to Police Officer on duty in flagrance of the Rules and Circular Orders. The 
results of the election so far as the Returned Candidate is concerned have been 
materially affected. 

VII. The Counting of votes took place on 27th February 1962 and as many 
as 7,752 votes were rejected as invalid. It may be mentioned that the Ballot 
Papers had been printed for three candidates with the symbols allotted to them 
•opposite to their names. They were printed in the following order from the top, 

(T) Ponnusamy Elephant. 

(2) Malaichamy Thevar Yoked Bullocks. 

and 

(3) Muthiah Tree. 

There was a sufficiently broad border enclosing symbols. The procedure was to 
,seal with a Rubber Stamp, Circular in shape provided by the Polling Officers in 
.such a way as to indicate the Candidate for whom the vote is cast. Votes cast 
in favour of the petitioner were rejected on one or other of the following 
.grounds: — • 

(a) The impression places in the tree which had been printed as if the 

tree had dense foliage was somewhat faintly impressed, perhaps as 
the ink on the stamp had been exhausted or dried up. Even though 
faint and the mark was found placed against the dense foliage in 
the picture, the mark was clearly discrenable. But the counting 

Officer took an unreasonable attitude and declared such votes to be 
invalid and rejected them. It has to be stated that papers with such 
similar faint impressions placed on the yoked Bullocks were allowed 
as valid. There has thus been both improper rejection of votes as 
well as discrimination. 

(b) In many cases the Rubber Stamp Mark was placed when the ink on 

the stamp was ample or in excess and quite fresh and profuse. 




Src. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, l‘JG2yVAISAKHA 


15, 1884 1425 


It clearly indicated that the vote was cast against the tree. The voters 
not properly educated or instructed folded the paper crosswise 
instead of lengthwise. The result was that the still wet mark placed 
against the tree made faint, smudges against the elephant mark. 
But the mark against the tree was quite clear and distinct. These 
votes also were declared to be invalid. In some cases, the such votes 
were declared as made for the elephant though the clear mark was 
against the tree with only a smudge against the elephant and this 
reduced the number of votes received by this petitioner. 

(c) In some instances the full circle would not be found on the papers. 
There was only an ‘arc’ or a portion of the whole circle. In some 
cases the 'arc' was near the border but there was no doubt as to 
whom the vote indicated, especially having regard to the shape of 
the ‘arc’ and the manner of placing it showing how the full circle 
if completed would have been made. Such votes were also declared 
invalid but the same rule was not consistently adopted in the case 
of the other candidates. In particular similar votes cast in favour 
of Congress Candidate the yoked Bullocks was allowed as valid. By 
this kind of discrimination and biased view the number of votes in 
favour of the petitioner was reduced while at the same time those 
in favour of the first respondent -was fully counted. The Agents 
of the petitioner, present at the counting immediately protested 
against this irregularity and discrimination but were met with a 
defiant statement by the Returning Officer. A High Officer of the 
Government, that if there was any grievance there was a remedy 
in an Election petition. The petitioner estimates that the total 
number of votes cast in his favour wrongly rejected and declared 
to be invalid at more than 3,500. There has also been discrimination 
in that votes were allowed in favour the Returned Candidate when 
exactly similar vot"3 in favour of the petitioner wiere rejected. 
Such discriminatory action and disregard of the rules and instructions 
had tended to increase the number of votes for the returned candi- 
date and reduce those of the petitioner, 

VIII. Some of the Counting Officers taking advantage of the lateness of the 
hour the fact that attention of the agents rvas otherwise directed and other similar 
circumstances bundled up along with the votes for the yoked Bullock votes not 
cast for the Yoked Bullock. In fact one such instance was brought to the notice 
of the Returning Officer and then rectified but other instances were ignored and 
no action was taken. 

IX. Further in a large number of about 400 votes cast in the Uthamapalayam 
Constituency and the Bodinaickenur Constituency the stamp mark was plainly 
visible at the Back. In many instances the mark itself was placed at the back 
of the Ballot Paper opposite to the Yoked Bullock, In some instances the mark 
was made in such a manner that the ink will seep through and show on the 
■outside (Back side) evidently this ruse was adopted to got round the rule 
regarding the secrecy of Ballot. In any event these papers should have been 
rejected as offending the rule of the secrecy of Ballot, But all such papers were 
accepted by the respective Officer as valid and allowed. Immediately after the 
counting and before declaration of the results the petitioner presented a request 
In writing for a re-count but the same was rejected. 

X. On occasions in several Booths the Candidate himself or his Polling agent 
got the Ballot Paper from the voter and placed them in box himself. This 
practice was adopted to ensure that particular voters voted for the Congress 
■Car. ldate. It clearly olfends the rule of the secrecy of the Ballot. Protests 
were of no avail. In one instance at any rate the act of such an open and flagrant 
violation of the Rules that even the Polling Officer had to note in his report that 
Ballot Paper Number 3,45,942 was put into the box by the Candidate himselt. 
These and other irregularities, discrimination disregard of and non-compliance 
with the Rules mentioned above have considerably increased the votes in favour 
of the returned candidate anck reduced that in favour of the petitioner and 
materially affected the results. 

XI. The petitioner submits that the non-compliance with the Rules and 
instructions and other irregularities have at least cumulatively, materially 
affected the results of the election so far as the returned candidate was concerned. 

XII. One Sri A. S. Subbaraja of Bodinaickenur was a candidate for the Madras 
State Assembly Constituency of Bodinaickenur which was part of the Periyakulam 
Parliament Constituency. The respondent and A. S. Subbaraja were the 



1426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part li 


respective Official Candidates put up by the Congress Party and as such both 
were working together in the matter of elections. In fact electioneering work 
in the entire area Constituting the Bodinaiekenur Assembly Constituency was 
mainly under the control of the said A. S. Subbaraja who worked not only for 
himself but also for the respondent. The said Subbaraja has influence over the 
second respondent and therefore induced the latter to stand and continue to 
stand as a candidate for the Parliamentary Constituency with a view to draw 
away the votes from the petitioner. Even then some respectable persons inter- 
vened and tried to make the second respondent withdraw from the contest as he 
was not a rich man. On 20th January 1062 the first respondent, one O, Ramasamy 
Chairman, of Cumbum and some other Congress workers met the second 
respondent in his house and offered in general terms to meet ail the 2nd 
respondent's election expenses and in addition offered to give financial and 
other assistances to the 2nd respondent for his business after the elections were 
over. By such offer second respondent was induced not to withdraw from the 
contest but to continue to stand. The said Ponnusamy obtained 12,357 votes 
at the election. The petitioner submits that these non-Congrcss Party votes 
which would otherwise have been cast in, favour of the petitioner had sub- 
stantially reduced his votes and prevented him from getting the majority of 
votes. Thus the results of the election have been materially affected. 

XIII. On the polling day, 19th February 1962 at about 9 a.m. there was brisk 
polling at Sillamarathupatty. A very large number of voters were quod up in 
front of the Polling Booths. One V. M. Rengasamy Gounder of the said village 
Is a “Kambll Gounder" l.e., he is a religious head for the Villagers. The villagers 
have great faith in him and believe that his blessings or curses will be very 
effective and on the very date of polling In front of the Polling Booth he was 
exhorting the villagers to vote only to the Yoked Bullock and threaten them 
that their Deity "Jakkammah” would visit the dire consequence on those who 
disobeyed, their family, their cattle, and their possessions. He was so doing 
with the consent of the first respondent who was the Congress Candidate with 
the Yoked Bullock as his symbol. This is prohibited under Section 123(2) of the 
Act. 


XIV. One P. A. K. Veerakamakshi Chettiar was a Chief Election Agent of 
Sri R. Subbiah, B.A., B.L., a Candidate for the Assembly Constituency of 
Bodinaickenue, The Petitioner and the said R, Subbiah were helping each other 
and working together in the matter of the elections, As such Veera Kamakshi 
Chettiar was the chief worker for the petitioner also in the area. During his 
tour round the Constituency on 19th February 1962, the Polling day, he went to 
Sillamarathupatty at about 9 A.M. when he witnessed the incident narrated in 
para XIII above.’ He protested against it. Immediately Thirumalaisamy Chettiar, 
a worker for the first respondent threatened to beat Veerakamakshi Chettiar 
with a shoe. The Head Constable of the Bodinaiekenur Police Station well known 
to Sri A, S. Subbaraja and under his influence in sympathy with the Congress 
Candidates arrested Veerakamakshi Chettiar also though he was innocent and 
the real offender was the first respondent’s worker. Veerakamakshi Chettiar was 
kept under detention in spite of his protest. Some time later Sri A. S. Subbaraja 
and one of his Chief workers went there and had talks with the said Head Con- 
stable and the Sub Inspector of Police on Election duty. Veerakamakshi Chettiar 
was asked to work merely as a polling agent at that Booth. Since he refused 
he was kept under custody till about 3-39 p,m, Then alone he was released. The 
Head Constable and the Sub Inspector really acted in the interests of the Con- 
gress candidates and with their consent, This incident resulted in actual Inti- 
midation of the voters who were seared away from freely exercising their votes. 
The petitioner was also deprived of the services of an influential worker in an 
area consisting of more than one hundred Booths. 


XV The Constituency comprises several villages which are situate some dis- 
tance away from the actual respective Polling Booths, The respondent and the 
respective ‘ Assembly Candidates acting together employed a large number of 
motor vehicles on the polling date to carry voters from their respective places to 
the Polling Booths. Particulars of the vehicles employed are detailed in Schedule- 
I hereunder. 


XVI There has been wholesale brlbary in the matter of inducing voters to- 
vote It has to be stated that the Congress Party had openly levied contributions 
from many traders and businessmen for expenses in connection with elections. 
A good portion of these monies were distributed among the Constituencies ana 
were utilised for the purpose of bribing voters. In many cases lump sums were 
paid to certain Chief or influential men for the purpose of effectively inducing 
ihe voters to vote and seeing that they vote for the Congress Party and their 


Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY i5, 1002/VAlSAKHA 15, 1884 


Candidate for the respondent. Such particulars as are known to the petitioner 
are mentioned in Schedule II hereunder. 

XVII. As stated already the Congress candidates including the first 
respondent could and did have the Assistance of Government servants in the 
matter of the election. Muthumani of Servaichavadi is a Teacher in the 
Chinnamanur Panchayat Union Elementary School is influential ' person. The 
first respondent as the Union Chairman wanted to utilise his services. Therefore, 
he was induced to apply for leave. He was working under the control of Block 
Development Officer. The District Educational Officer, a Gazetted Officer of the 
Government gave assistance to the first respondent by granting leave to the 
said Muthumani and releasing him his duties throughout the period of election. 
A Car MDU — 3636, was placed at his disposal and he was doing strenuous work 
on behalf of the first respondent. It appears that a complaint was sent to the 
District Collector by one Sivakaminathan as early as 30th January 1002 pointing 
that a rule on that behalf was disregarded. But tfyc Complaint was ignored, thus 
showing that Government servants were actively assisting the first respondent 
the Congress Candidate in the matter of elections. 

XVIII. There was extensive feeling of voters on the polling day by the active 
workers and agents of the first respondent with his consent. Chits to supply 
meals to voters were given to the voters authorising supply of meals by the 
hotel keepers in some places and In some other places meals were prepared at the 
cost of the first respondent or by his workers with his consent and voters who 
had come to vote at the booths were fed at Such places, These amount to 
corrupt practice. Particulars of such corrupt practices arc given in schedule III. 

XIX. (a) The respondent had engaged a number of motor ears for purposes 

of the election campaign and for transporting voters to the Polling Booth. Large 
quantities of petrol, oil etc., were used. The respondent has failed to include 

all the expenses, the cost of patrol, oil etc., the wages given to drivers and other 

workers accompanying them and batta paid to them. 

(b) The expenses of feeding the large number or voters on the polling day, 
the polling agents and workers on that day, the salary or other remuneration pay- 
able or paid to them have also not been included in the accounts, 

(c) The election expenses of the second respondent were met by the first 

respondent as stated in paragraph XII above. Such expenses also form part 
of the first respondent’s election expenses. They should have be-n included in 
the account of expenses. One Muthuxami was employed to work for the first 
respondent. He was drawing a salary of Rs. 125 as a teacher. He was with- 
drawn from his normal duties as teacher and exclusively put to election work. 

His salary, batta and other expenses have not been included in the first respon- 
dent’s election account. 

XX. The results of the election as regards the returned candidate have been 
materially affected by the corrupt practices, non-compliance with the Rules etc., 
mentioned above. The petitioner further states that on a correct counting of 
votes according to accepted principles, the petitioner would be found to have 
obtained the majority of votes. 

XXI. This petition has accordingly been filed for declaring the first 
respondent’s election void and for a declaration that the petitioner himself should 
be duly declared elected. 

XXII. A sum of Rs. 2,000 has been deposited with the Government Sub- 
Treasury at Madurai, Madras State in favour of th-' Election Commission as 
security for costs of this petition. The receipt Number 2269, dated 7th April 1962 
Sub-Treasury Madurai for the said deposit is herewith produced. 

Wherefore the petitioner humbly prays, — 

(1) that the election of the first respondent to represent the Perivakulam 

Constituency of the Lok Sabha at the election held on 19th February 
1962 be declared void; 

(2) that the petitioner be declared to have been duly elected to the said 

Constituency; 

(3) for costs of these proceedings; and 

14) for such other and further reliefs as may be deemed to be fit and 
proper in the circumstances of the case, 

I, the aforesaid petitioner do hereby declare that the facts in paragraph I to 
III, are known to my knowledge and that the. facts in other paragraphs are 
known to me only on in r ormation and that T believe them to be true. In token 
whereof I have signed this at Madurai, on 7th April, 1962. 


Muthiah. 


Schedule I 


Particulars of corrupt practices mentioned in paragraph XV of the petition 



Date 

Place of plying 

Car No. 

Remarks 

(1) 19-2-62 Morning to evening and throughout 
the election campaign. 

Bodinaickenur 

MDU-8792 

Voters of 6th and 7th ward of Bodinaickenur were 
brought in this car to the Polling Station on 
19-2-62. 

(2) 

19-2-62, Morning to evening and through- 
out the election Campaign. 

Bodinaickenur 

MDU-t$6o 

Voters of 1 , 2 and 3 ward of Bodinaickemur were 
brought in this car to the Polling Station on 
19-2-62. 

(3) 

19-2-62, Morning to evening and through 
out the election campaign. 

Chinnamar.ur 

MDU-3636 

Voters of Chainnamanur were brought in this car 
to polling stations on 19-2-62. 


I , the aforesaid petitioner do hereby declare that the facts stated 
token where of I have signed this At Madurai on 7-4-62. 


supra are known to me only on information and th at I believe them to be true. 

Mutbiah. 


In 


II 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1 9G2/VAISAKH A 15, 1684 [Part If 



SCHBitJLB It 

Funiculars of the Corrupt Practice mentioned in Paragraph ,XV 1 of the petition. 



Date 

Persons who paid 

Place of payment 

_ — — a. ■ ■ , c__ 

To Wham paid 

Amount Remaks 


(t) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

(?) (6) 


I 1 7-2-62 

(1) Muthumani, s/o Sankaran Servai 

Teacher, Panchayat, Elementary School, 

K amayagcundanpatt i 

To the voters of Ka- 
nt ay ago un dan patty. 

Rupee 1 /- per vote. 


II 


Cbinnainanur. 

(2) Ponnaya Thevar, sjfo Velu Thevar 
Narayanathevaupalti. 

(3) Paratharaju s/o Ramaswamy Goundcf 
Kam ayagoun d an parti . 

18-2-62 S. Muthumani s/o Sankaran Servai, Teacher Uthamapalayam 
Chinnamanur. 


18-2-62 M. Malaisamy Thevar, 


Panchayat Union Chairman. 


To the voters of Rs. 2/- per vote. 
Uthamapalayam at 
tenth ward. 

Chinnamanur Uthamapalayam 1st and To the voters of Re. 1 per vote. 


2nd wards. 


Do. 


III 

IV 

V 

VI 

VII 

vm 

IX 


18-2-62 Peeranan; son of Moheedeen Rcwther Sec- 
retary Youth Congress Uthamapalayam. 

17- 2-62 S. Muthumani, son of Sankaran Asari, Gokilapuram Village 

Teacher, Chinnamanur. 

18- 2-62 O.Ramasamy, son of Ocha Thevar, Chair- Cumbum 2nd and 3rd 

man Municipality, Cumbum. wards. 

17- 2-62 Arunachalam Servai Union Chairman, Seda- Ehtmalal 
and 18-2-62 patti. 

18- 2-62 Arunachalam Servai Panchay r at Union Sulapuiam 

Chairman, Sedapatti. 

18-2-62 Suruttai alias Muthiah s/o Erulappa Servai, Bodinrickenur 
6th Ward Bodmaickenur. 

1S-2-62 Driver Muthusami Naidu Sarithupatti, Lak- Sarithupatti 
shrni puram , P . O . P e ri y akulam Tal uk . 

18-2-62 Nachimutbu, teacher, Panchayat Union A. Vadipatti 
School, Thandikudi, KcdaikanalTk. 


Uthamapalayam 
residing in 1st and 
second wards. 

Do. 


Do. 


The voters of Gokila- Re. 1 per vote, 
puram, village. 

To voters of Cumbirm Re. I per Vole, 
who are residing in 
2nd and third wards. 

To the voters of Elu- Rs. 2 per vote, 
malai. 

To the Voters of Re. 1 per vote. 
Sulapuram. 

To the voters of 6th Re. I per vote, 
and 7th wards of^ 
Bodinaickennur. Ig, 

To the voters of Sari- Re. 1 per vote, 
thupatti. 

To the voters of Vadi- Re 1 per votd. 
patti. 


£ 

'i 


I, the aforesaid petitioner do hereby declare that the farts Stated supra are known to me only on information and that I believe them to be true 
in token whereof I have signed this at Madurai on 7-4-62. 

MOTHIAH. 


3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1881 1429 




1430 THE GAZETTE or INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Paw If 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAK.HA 15, 1884 J43I 


In tht' matter of Periyakulam Constituency (Lok Sabha) in Madurai District, 
(Madras State. 


Before the Election Commission, 
New Delhi. 

Election Petn. No. 66 of 1962. 


Election Petition 
Petitioner. 
Muthiah. 
Respondents, 

Malaichamy Thevar and another. 


[No. 82/60/62.] 
By Order, 

V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 25 th April 1962 

5. 0. 1305. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 5-A of 
the Central Civil Services (Temporary Service) Rules, 1949, read with article 313 
of the Constitution and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. F. 78/147/56-TS, dated the 12th 
February, 1957, the Central Government hereby specific's the Comptroller and 
.Auditor' General as the authority to act on behalf of the said Government for 
the purpose of the said rule in so far as the employees of the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department, other than those whose appointing authority is the 
President, are concerned. 

[No. F. 41 /20-61-Ests.(C) (1).] 

5.0. 1306. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 5-A 
of Central Civil Services (Temporary Service) Rules, 1949, read with article 313 
of the Constitution, the Central Government hereby specifics the Deputy Comp- 
troller and Auditor General and the Additional Deputy Comptroller and Auditor 
'General as tftb authorities to act on behalf of the said Government for the pur- 
pose of the said rule in respect of the Class III and Class IV employees of the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, other than the Class III employees of 
rthe Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. 

[No. F. . 41/20/61-Ests.(C) (2).] 

K. THYAGARAJAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th April 1962 

S.O. 1307. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
.and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor-General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Centra] Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) 
Rules, 1957, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control 
and Appeal) Fourth Amendment Rules, " 1962. 

2. In the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 
1957, rule 32 shall be renumbered as sub-rule (1) of that rule and after the sub- 
ctule as so renumbered, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namelv: — 

“(2) The powers vested In the President under sub-rule (1) may also be 
exercised In like manner, 

(1) In the case of a Government servant In the Indian Audit and Account! 
Department by the Comptroller and Auditor-General; and 

• (11) in the case of a Government servant In a Department or Office, not) 
being the Secretariat or the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart- 
ment, which Is under the control of a ‘Head of a Department’ 
directly’ under the Government, by such Head of Department; 


1432 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part ID 


Provided that no such power shall be exercisable unless, — 

(I) the authority which made the order in appeal or jn review, or 

(II) where no appeal has been preferred' or no review has been made, the 

authority to which an appeal would lie or which Is competent to 
review the order. 

Is subordinate to the Comptroller and Auditor-General or such Head 
of Department, as the case may be. 


[No. P. 7/25/(Jl-Ests.(A).J 

S.O. 1308. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor-General In relation to persons serving In the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rule*, 
furher to amend the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) 
Rules, 1957, namely: — 

1, These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control 
and Appeal) Third Amendment Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 
1957, in sub-rule (5) of rule 15, the words “approved by the Disciplinary 
Authority” shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 7/ 3 / 62-Ests. (A) J] 
B. D, J AYAL, Dy. Secy. 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 


(Department of Statistics) 


New Delhi, the 2 Hth April, 1962 


S.O. 1309.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 14 of the Collection of 
Statistics Act, 1953 (32 ol 1953), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules, further to amend the Collection of Statistics (Central) Rules, 1959, the 
same having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of the said 
section, namely: — 

1, Th?se rules may be called the Collection of Statistics (Central) Amendment 

' Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Collection of Statistics (Central) Rules, 1959 (hereinafter referred 

to as the said rules), rule 3 shall be re-numbered as sub-rule (1) of 
that rule, and— 

(a) In the sub-rule as so re-numbered, the following words and bracket* 

shall be omitted, namely: — 

"the following before a date to be stated in the notice (which date shall 
not ordinarily be earlier than three calendar months after the end 
of the period to which the return relates)"; 

(b) after the same sub-rule, the following sub-rule shall be Inserted, 

namely: — 

“(2) The return or other document referred to in sub-rule (1) shall be 
furnished before a date to be specified in the notice which date 
shall be — 

(a) in the case of an annual return or other document, not earlier than 

three calendar months, 

(b) In any other case, not earlier than one calendar month, 

after the end of the period to which the return or other document 
relates”. 


3. In the first proviso to rule 6 of the said rules, for the words ‘‘three months”, 
the words “three months or as the case may be, one month shall be substituted. 


[No. 16/ 5/ 6I-Estt.II.T 


M. BALAKRISHNA MENON, Dy. Secy. 





1433 


fee, S(ii)] THE GAZET1E OF INDIA : MAY 3, 19(«/VAIN\KUA 15, 1884 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

(Establishment Division) 

New Delhi, the 15 th March 1962 

S.O. 1310. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following amendment in the 
rules regulating the Workmen’s Contributory Provident Fund as instituted with 
the Government of India, late Finance Department Resolution No. F. 33 (3) -R. II/ 
44, dated the 16th April, 1946, namely:— 

In the said Resolution, in paragraph 2, after sub-paragraph (5-A), the follow- 
ing sub-paragraph shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(5-B) The provisions contained In rule 32 of the Contributory Provident 
Fund Rules (India), 1962, restricting the facility of financing in- 
surance policies from the Provident Fund shall not apply.” 

[No. F. 11(2)-EV(B)/01.] 

S.O. 1311. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv the proviso to article 309, and 
clause (5) of article 148, of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabling him, 
in this behalf, the President, after consultation with the Comp holler and Auditor 
General in respect of persons employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart- 
ment, hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 

Short Title and Definitions 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Con- 
tributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962. 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 

2. Definitions, — .(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(1) Account Officer means such officer as may be appointed in this be- 
half by the Comptroller and Auditor General, or the Pay and Accounts 
Officer where a separate Pay and Accounts Office exists, 

(ii) Emoluments means pay, leave-salary, or subsistence grant, as defined 
in the Fundamental Rules and includes— 

(a) dearness pay appropriate to pay, leave salary, or subsistence grant, 

if admissible; 

(b) any wages paid by Government to employees not remunerated by 

fixed monthly pay; and 

(c) any remuneration of the nature of pay received in respect of foreign 

service. 

(ill) Fanily means — 

(a) In the case of male subscriber, the wife or wives and children of a 

subscriber, and the widow, or widows, and children of a deceased 
son of the subscriber; 

Provided that If a subscriber proves that his wife has been judicially 
separated from him or has ceased under the customary law of the 
community to which she belongs to be entitled to maintenance she 
shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the sub- 
scriber’s family In matters to which these rules relate unless the 
subscriber subsequently Intimates in writing to the Account Officer 
that she shall continue to be so regarded: 

(b) in the case of a female subscriber, the husband and children of a 

subscriber, and the widow or widows and children of a deceased son 
of a subscriber: 

Provided that if a subscriber by notice in writing to the Account Officer 
expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family, the 
husband shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of 
the subscriber’s family in matters to which these rules relate, un- 
less the subscriber subsequently cancels such notice in writing. 
Note. — Child means a legitimate child, and includes an adopted child, 
where adoption is recognised by the personal law governing the 
subscriber, 

(Iv) Fund means the Contributory Provident Fund (India); 



1434 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5 . 1962/VAISAKIIA 15, 1884 [Part II 


(v) Leave means any variety of leave recognised by the Fundamental 
Rules or the Civil Service Regulations or the Revised Leave Rules, 
1933, whichever may be applicable to the subscriber; and 

(vi) Year means a financial year. 

(2) Any other expression employed in these rules which is defined either in 
the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1923), or in the Fundamental Rules is used 
in the sense therein defined. 

(3) Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to have the eil'ect of terminating 
the existence of the Contributory Provident Fund (India) as heretofore existing or 
of constituting any new Fund. 

Constitution of the Fund 

3, Constitution of the Fund.— (1) The Fund shall be maintained in rupees. 

(2) All sums paid into the Fund under these rules shall be credited in the 
books of Government to an account named “The Contributory Provident Fund 
(India) Account”. Sums of which payment has not been taken within six months 
after they become payable under these rules shall be transferred to “Deposits” 
after the 31st March of the year and treated under the ordinarv rules relating to 
deposits. I 

4. Conditions of eligibility. — (1) These rules shall apply to every non- 
pensionable servant of Government belonging to any of the Services under the con- 
trol of the President, who— 

(a) has been admitted before these rules came into force to the benefits 

of the Contributory Provident Fund (India) ; or 

(b) may be admitted by Government to the Fund after these rules come 

into force: 

Provided that these rules shall not apply to any such servant between whom 
and Government an agreement subsists in respect of a provident fund other than 
an agreement providing for the application to him of these rules, and, in the case 
of an agreement so prow ding, shall apply subject to the terms of such agreement. 

Note. — Any officer retired from any Civil or Military Department, of the Cen- 
tral Government or from services of any State Governme-t, or from the services 
of any local fund administered by the Government, or F'4 Trust or Railways, 
may on re-employment in Civil Department be admitted to the Fund by the 
appointing authority subject to the general orders issued in this behalf by the 
Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance, from time to time. 

(2) Every servant of Government to whom these rules apply shall be subscri- 
ber to the Fund, 

(3) If a Government servant admitted to the benefit of the Fund was pre- 
viously a subscriber to any other contributory or non-contributory provident 
fund of the Central Government, the amount of his subscriptions and Govern- 
ment contributions in the other Contributory Provident Fund or the amount of 
his subscriptions jn the non -Contributory Provident Fund, as the case may be, 
together with interest thereon, shall be transferred to bis credit in the Fund. 

(4) If a Government servant admitted to the benefit of the Fund was pre- 
viously a subscriber to any other Government Contributory Provident Fund or 
non-Contributory Provident Fund the amount of his subscriptions and the Gov- 
ernment contribution in the Contributory Provident Fimd or the amount of his 
subscriptions in the non-Contributory Provident Fund, as the case may be, to- 
gether with interest thereon, shall he transferred to his credit in the Fund, with 
the consent of the other Government, 

Note (1). — The provisions of sub-rules (3) and (4) shall not apply to a 
person who has retired and is subsequently re-employed, with or without a break 
in service, or to a person who was holding the former appointment on contract. 

Note (2). — The provisions of this rule shall, however, apply to persons who 
are aopointed without break, whether temporarily or permanently to a post 
carrying the benefits of these rules after resignation or retrenchment from service 
under another pepartment of Central Government or under the State Govern- 
ment. 

Ndmlnatlons 

5. Nominations. — (1) A subscriber shall, at the time of joining the Fund, send 
to the Account Officer a nomination, conferring on one or more persons the right 
to receive the amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund in the event of 



Sue. B(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1435 


his death before that amount has become payable, or having become payable, has 
not been paid: 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination the subscriber has a 
family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other than 
the members of his family: 

Provided further that the nomination made by the subscriber in respect of any 
other Provident Fund to which he was subscribing before joining the fund, shall, 
if the amount to his credit in such other fund has been transferred to his credit 
in this fund, be deemed to be a nomination duly made under this rule until he makes 
a nomination in accordance with this rule. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub-rulo (1), he 
shall specify m the nomination u;e amount or share payable to each of the nomi- 
nees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his 
credit in the Fund at any time, 

(3) Every nomination shall be in such one of the Form set forth in the First 
Schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances. 

(4) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice 
in writing to the Account Officer. The subscriber shall along with such notice 
or separately send a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions of 
this rule. 

(5) A subscriber may provide in a nomination — 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his predeceas- 

ing the subscribe-, the right conferred upon that, nominee shall pass 
to such other person or persons as may be specified in the nomina- 
tion provided that such other person or persons shall, if the subscri- 
ber has other members of his family, be such other member or mem- 
bers. Where the subscriber confers such a right on more than one 
person under this clause, he shall specify the amount or share pay- 
uble to each of such persons in such a manner as to cover the whole 
of the amount payable to the nominee. 

(b) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happen- 

ing of a contingency specified therein: 

Provided that if at the time of making the nomination the subscriber has 
no family, he shall provide in the nomination that it shall become 
invalid in the event of his subsequently acquiring a family: 

Provided further that if at the time of making the nomination the sub- 
scriber has only one member of the family, he shall provide in the 
nomination that the right conferred upon the alternate nominee 
under clause (a) shall become invalid in the event of his subsequent- 
ly acquiring other member or members in his family, 

(fl) Immediately on tire death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause la) of sub-rule (5) or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes in- 
valid in pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (5) or the provisos thereto, the sub- 
scriber shall send to the Account Officer a notice in writing cancelling the nomi- 
nation together with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions 
■of this rule. 

(7) Every nomination made and every notice of cancellation given, by a 
subscriber shall, to the extent that it is valid, take effect, on the date on which 
It is received by the Account Officer. 

Subscriber’s Accounts 

6. Subscriber’s account. — An account shall be opened in the name of each 
subscriber, in which shall be shown — 

(i) his subscriptions; 

(ii) contributions made under rule 11 by Government to his account; 

(iii) interest, as provided by rule 12 on subscriptions; 

(lv) interest, as provided by rule 12, on contributions; and 

(v) advances and withdrawals from the Fund. 



1436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA lfi, 1884 [Part IE 


Conditions and Rates nf Subscriptions 

7. Conditions of subscriptions. — (1) Every subscriber shall subscribe monthly 
to the Fund when on duty or foreign service but not during u period of suspension: 

Provided that a subscriber on rc-instatement after a period passed under sus- 
pension shall be allowed the option of paying in one sum, or in instalments, any 
sum not exceeding the maximum amount of arrears of subscriptions permissible 
for that period, 

(2) A subscriber may, at his option, not subscribe during any period of leave 
other than leave on average pay or earned leave of less than one month or 30' 
days' duration, as the case may be. 

(3) The subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave in 
the following manner: — 

(a) if he is an officer who draws his own pay bills, by making no deduc- 

tion on account or subscription in his first pay bill drawn after pro- 
ceeding on leave; 

(b) if he is not an officer who draws his own pay bills, by written com- 

munication to the head of his office before he proceeds on leave. 

Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute an 
election to subscribe. 

The option of a subscriber intimated under this sub-rule shall be final. 

(4) A subscriber who has, under rule 34, withdrawn the amount of subscrip- 
tions and interest thereon, shall not subscribe to the Fund after such withdrawal, 
unless he returns to duty. 

8, Rates of subscriptions. — (1) The amount of subscription shall be fixed by 
the subscriber himself subject to the following conditions, namely: — 

(a) It shall be expressed in whole rupees. 

(b) It may be any sum, so expressed, not less than 8 1/3 per cent, of his 

emoluments and not more than his emoluments. 

(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1) the emoluments of a subscriber shall 
be— 


(a) in the case of a subscriber who was in Government service On the 31st 

March of the preceding year, the emoluments to which he was en- 
titled on that date: 

Provided that — 

(i) if the subscriber was on leave on the said date and elected not to 
subscribe during such leave or was under suspension on the said 
date, his emoluments shall be the emoluments to which he was 
entitled on the first day after his return to duty; 

(11) if the subscriber was on deputation out of India on the said date or 
was on leave on the said date and continues to be on leave and 
has elected to subscribe during such leave, his emoluments shall 
be the emoluments to which he would have been entitled had he 
been on duty in India; 

(iii) if the subscriber joined the Fund for the first time on a day subse- 
quent to the said date, his emoluments shall be the emoluments 
to which he teas entitled on such subsequent date; 

(b) In the case of a subscriber who was not in Government Service on the 

31st March of the preceding year, the emoluments to which he was 
entitled on the first day of his service or, if he Joined the Fund for 
the first time on a date sub' quent to the first day of his service, the 
emoluments to which he was entitled on such subsequent date. 



Sec. S(ijj] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5. 1992 /VAISAKHA 15, 1RB4 1431 


Provided that, If the emoluments of the subscriber are of a fluctuating nature; 
they shall be calculated In such manner as the President may direct. 

<31 The subscriber shall intimate the fixation of the amount of his monthly 
subscription in each year in the following manqer:- — 

(a) if he was on duty on the 31st March of the preceding year, by the 
deduction which he makes In this behalf from his pay bill for that' 
month; 

;&') if he was on ^ave on the 31st March of the preceding year and 
elected not to subscribe during such leave or was under suspension 
on that date, by the deduction which he makes in this behalf from 
his first pay bill after his return to duty; 

( 0 ) if he has entered Government service for the first tJme during the year, 
or joins the Fund for the first time, by the deduction which he 
makes In this behalf, from his pay bill for the month during which 
he joins tho Fund; 

(d) If he was on leave on the 31st March of the preceding year, and 

continues to be on leave and has elected to subscribe during such 
leave, h,v the deduction which he causes to be made In this behalf 
from his salary bill for' that mnrifh: 

(e) if he was on foreign service on the 31st March of the preceding yenr, 

by the amount credited by. him Into the treasury on account of sub- 
scription for the month of April in the current year; 

(f) if his emoluments are of the nature referred to in the proviso to sub- 

tuIo (2), in such manner as the President may direct. 

(4) The amount of subscription so fixed may be. enhanced or reduced once 
«t any time during the course of a year; 

Provided that when the amount of subscriDtion is so reduced, it shall not 
be less than the minimum prescribed in sub-rule (1): 

Provided further that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and 
on leave for the remainder of that month, and If he has elected not 
to subscribe during leave, the amount of the subscription payable 
shall be proportionate to the number of days spent on duty In the 
month. 

9. Transfer to foreign service or deputation out of India.— When a subscriber 
Is transferred to foreign service or sent on deputation out of India, he shall 
remain subject to the rules of the Fund in the same manner as If he were not 
so transferred or sent on deputation. 


Realisation of subscriptions 


10. Realisation of subscription.— (1) When emoluments are drawn from a 
Government treasury in India or from an authorised office of disbursement outside 
India, recovery of subscriptions on account of these emoluments and of the 
principal and interest of advances Hiall be made from the emoluments themselves 


(2) When emoluments are drawn from am” other source the 
forward his dues monthly to the Account Officer, 


subscriber shall 


Contribution by Government 


11. Contribution by Government— ( i ) Government shall with effect from the 
31st March of each year, make a contribution to the account of each subscriber: 


Provided that if a subscriber quits the service or dies during a year contribu- 
tion shall be credited to his account for the period between the close of the 
preceding year and the date of the casualty; 


Provided further that no contribution shall be payable 
period for which the subscriber is permitted under the "rules 
oubscribe to the Fund. 


in respect of any 
not to, or does not, 


(2) The contribution shall be such percentage of the subscriber’s emoluments 
drawn on duty during the year or period, as the case may be, as has heen or 
may be prescribed by Government by general or special order; b 0r 

Provided that if, through oversight or otherwise, the amount subscribed is 
less than the minimum subscription payable by the subscriber under sub-rule'(n 



[Part H 


1438 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . MAY 5, l'Jo2,- VATAkHA 13, 1884 


ni rule 8 and if the short subscription together with the Interest accrued thereon 
is not oaid by the subscriber within such time as may be specified by the authority 
competent to sanction an advance for the grant ol which, special reasons are 
reaulred under sub-rule (2) of rule 13, the contribution payable by the Govern- 
ment shall be equal to the amount actually paid by the subscriber or the amount 
■normally payable by Government, whichever is less, unless the Government, In any 
particular case, otherwise directs. 


( 3 ) If a subscriber is on deputation out of India, the emoluments which he 
would have drawn had he been on duty in India shall, for the purposes of this 
rule, be deemed to be emoluments drawn on duty; 


(4) Should a subscriber elect to subscribe during leave, his leave salary shall, 
for tha purposes ot this rule, be deemed to be emoluments drawn on duty. 


(5) Should a subscriber elect to pay arrears of subscriptions in respect of a 
period of suspension the emoluments or portion of emoluments which may be 
allowed for that period on reinstatement, shall, for the purpose of this rule, be 
deemed to be emoluments drawn on duty. 


(G) The amount of any contribution payable in respect of a period of foreign 
service shall, unless it is recovered from the foreign employer, be recovered by 
-Government from the subscriber. 


( 7 ) The amount of contribution payable shall be rounded to the nearest whole 
rupee (fifty naye paise counting as the next higher rupee). 

Interest 


12. Interest. — (1) Government shall pay to the credit of the account of a sub- 
scriber interest, at such rate as Government may from time to time prescribe 
for the payment of Interest on subscriptions to the General Provident Fund on 
-the amount to his credit in the Fund, 

(2) Interest shall be credited with effect from the 31st March of each year 
,ln the following manner', — 


(i) on the amount to the credit of a subscriber on the 31st March of the 

preceding year, less any sums withdrawn during the current year- 
interest for twelve months; 

(ii) on sums withdrawn during the current year — Interest from the 1st April 

of the current year upto the last day of the month preceding the 
month of withdrawal; 

(lii) on all sums credited to the subscriber’s account after _the 31st March 
of the preceding year — interest from the date of deposit upto the 
31st March of the current year; v 

(Iv) the total amount of Interest shall be. rounded to the nearest rupee in 
the manner provided in sub-rule (7) of rule 11, 


Provided that when the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has 
■become payable, Interest shall thereupon be credited under this sub-rule In respect 
only of the period from the beginning of the current year or from the date of 
deposit, as the case may be, up to the date on which the amount standing t 0 the 
credit of the subscriber became payable. 


(3) For ihe purposes of this rule the date of deposit shall, In the case of 
recoveries from emoluments, be deemed to be the first day of the month in which 
a 1 recovered, and, In the case of amounts forwarded by the subscriber* 
shall be deemed to be the first day of the month of receipt, if they are received 
by the Account Officer before the fifth day of that month, or, if they are received 
month' a ^ Gr fifth day of that month, the first day of the next succeeding 


coin/ 0 '™/ n lat Where »^ ere £ as b een a delay in the drawal of pay or leave 
allowances of a subscriber and consequently in the recovery of his 

from tTe i mnn+h r 1 rds m A, F Ji, nd ' the interes t °n such subscriptions shall be payable 
the rniet ln ,, whl <* bay or Aave salary of the subscriber was due under 

the rules, irrespective of the month in which it was actually drawn, 

t !? y a ^ oun L t( ? PSld under rule 37, interest thereon upto 
fnonth preceding that In which payment Is made, or upto the end 
f he sixth month after the month In which such amount became payable. 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY S, 1%2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1439 , 


whichever of these periods be less, shall be payable to the person to whom, such 
amount is to be paid: 

Provided that no interest shall be paid in respect of any period after the date 
which the Account Officer has intimated to that person (or his agent 1 as the date 
on which he is prepared to make payment In cash, or if he pays by cheque, after 
the date on which the cheque in that person’s favour is put in the post. 

(5) Interest shall not be credited to the account of a subscriber if he informs 
the Account Officer that he does not wish to receive It: but if he subsequently 
asks for interest, it shall be credited with effect from the 1st April of the year 
In which he asks for it. 

(6) The interest on amounts which, under sub-rule (31 of rule 22, or sub-rule 
(4) of rule 24, or sub-rule (1) of rule 26 or sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) of rule- 
27 or rule 31 or rule 33 or rule 34 are replaced to the credit of the subscriber 
in the Fund, shall be calculated at such rates as may bo successively prescribed 
under sub-rule (1) of this rule and so far as may be in the manner described 
in this rule. 


Advances from the Fund 

13. Advane-e from the Fund. — (1) The appropriate sanctioning authority may- 
sanction the payment to any subscriber of an advance consisting of a sum of 
whole rupees and not exceeding in amount three months’ pay or half the amount 
of subscriptions and interest thereon standing to the credit of the subscriber In 
the Fund, whichever is less, for one or more of the following purposes: — 

fal to any expenses in connection with the illness or a disability, Including 
where necessary, the travelling expenses of the subscriber or any 
person actually dependent on him; 

(b) to meet the cost of higher education, including where necessary, the 
travelling expenses of the subscriber or any person actually: depen- 
dent on him in the following cases, namely: — 

(il for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional or 
vocational course beyond the High School stage and 
(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 
in India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course 
of study Is for not less than three years; 

(cl to pay obligatory expenses on a scale appropriate to the status which 
by customary usage the subscriber has to incur in connection with 
marriages or other ceremonies of himself or of his children or of any 
other person actually dependent on him: 

Provided that the condition of actual dependence shall not apply in the 
case of a son or daughter of the subscriber; 

Provided further that the condition of actual dependence shall not apply in 
the case of an advance required to meet the funeral expenses of the 
parent of a subscriber; 

(d) to meet the cost of legal proceedings Instituted by the subscriber for 
vindicating his position In regard to any allegations made against 
him in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him in 
the discharge of his official duty, the advance in this case being 
available in addition to any advance admissible for the same purpose 
from any other Government source; 

Provided that the advance under this sub-clause shall not be admissible 
to a subscriber who institutes legal proceedings in any court of law 
either in respect of any matter unconnected with his "official duty or 
against Government in respect of any condition of service or penalty 
imposed on him; 

(cl to meet the cost of his defence where the subscriber is prosecuted by 
Government in any court of law or where the subscriber engages a 
legal practitioner to defend himself in an enquiry in respect of any 
alleged official misconduct on his part, 

(2) An advance shall not, except for special reasons to be recorded In writing 
be granted to any subscriber in excess of the limit laid down in sub-rule (1) 
or until repayment of the last instalment of any previous advance. 



1440 


|FAR) II 


THE GAZE LIE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962,'VAISAKHA 13, 1884 


Provided that an advance shall in no case exceed the amount of subscriptions 
and interest thereon standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund. 

Note 1. — For the purpose of this rule, pay includes dearness pay, where 

admissible. 

Note 2. — The appropriate sanctioning authority for the purpose of this rule 
Is spcciiled in tha Fifth Scheduie. 

14. Recovery of .advances, — (1) An advance shall be recovered from the sub- 
scriber in such number of equal monthly instalments as the sanctioning authority 
may direct; but such number shall not be less than twelve unless the subscriber 
-so elects and more than twenty-four. In special cases where the amount of 
advance exceeds three months' pay of the subscriber under sub-rule (2) of rule 
13, the sanctioning authority may tlx such number of instalments to be more 
than twenty-four but in no case more than thirty-six, A subscriber may, at his 
option, make repayment in a smaller number of instalments than that prescribed. 
Each instalment snail be a number of whole rupees, the amount of the advance 
being raised or reduced, if necessary, to admit of the fixation of such instalments, 

(2) Recovery shall be made in the manner provided in rule 10 for the realisa- 
tion of subscriptions and shall commence on the first occasion after the advance 
Is made on which the subscriber draws emoluments, other than leave salary or 
subsistence grant, for a full month. Recovery shall not be made, except with the 
subscriber’s consent, while he is m receipt of subsistence grant or is on leave 
other than leave on average pay or earned leave of less than one month or 30 
days’ duration, as the case may be. The recovery may be postponed, on the sub- 
scriber’s written request, by the sanctioning authority during the recovery of ftp 
•advance of pay granted to the subscriber. 


(.‘31 If more than bile advance has been made to a subscriber, each advance 
shall be treated separately for the purpose of recovery. 

(4) (al After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid, interest shall 
be paid thereon at th= rate of one-fifth per cent of the principal for each month 
or broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and complete 
repayment of the principal. 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay into the Fund any additional Instalments on account of 
interest on advances granted to them from the Fund. 

(b) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in one instalment In the month 
.-after complete repayment of the principal; but, if the period referred to in clause 
(a) exceeds twenty months, interest may, if the subscriber so desires, be recovered 
in two monthly equal instalments. The method of recovery shall be that provided 
In sub-rule (21. Payments shall be rounded to the nearest rupee in the manner 
provided in sub-rule (7) of rule 11. 

(5) If an advance has been granted to a subscriber and drawn by him and 
the advance is subsequently disallowed bcfqre repayment is completed, the whole 
or balance of the amount withdrawn, shall, with interest ax the i ate provided 
In rule 11, forthwith be repaid by the subscriber to the Fund, or In default, be 
ordered by the Account. Officer to be recovered by deduction from the emoluments 
of the subscriber in a lump sum or in monthly Instalments not exceeding twelve, 
as may bo directed by the authority competent to sanction sn advance for the 
grant of which, special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) 0 f rule 13: 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay any interest. 

(61 Recoveries made under this rule shall be credited, as they are made to 
■the account of the subscriber in the Fuad. 


15. Wrongful use of advance. — Notwithstanding anything contained in these 
rules, if sRnctiomng authority is satisfied that money drawn as an advance 
e , n< ^ uax ler ru le 13 has been utilised for a purpose other than that for 
Which sanction was given to the drawal of the money, the amount in question 
shall with interest at the rate provided in rule 12 forthwith be repaid by the 
subscriber to the Fund, or in default, be ordered to be recovered by deduction 
jn one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber even If he be on leave. If 
The total amount to be repaid be more than half the subscriber’s emoluments 
recoveries shall be made in monthly Instalments of moieties of his emoluments 
•till the entire amount is repaid by him. 



3ec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, HKiiyVAISAKHA 15, 1834 I44 1 


Note.- — The term “emoluments’ in this rule does not include subsistence grant. 

Withdrawal from the Fund 

16 Withdrawal from the Fuad— (1) Subject to the conditions specified _ therein 
withdrawals may be sanctioned by the authorities competent to sanction ac 
advance tor special reasons under sub-rule (2) of rule 13, at any time after the 
completion of twenty-five years of service (including broken periods of service, 
if any) of a subscriber or within five years before the date of his retirement on 
superannuation, whichever is earlier, from the amount of subscriptions and 
interest thereon standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund, for one or 
more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) Meeting the cost of higher education, including where necessary, the 

trav ellin g expenses of any child of the subscriber actually dependent 
on him in the following cases, namely: — 

(i) for education outside India for academic, technical, professional or 

vocational course beyond the High School stage, and 

(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course of 
study 'is for not less than three years. 

(b) Meeting the expenditure in connection with the marriage of the sub- 

scriber’s sons or daughters and if he has no daughter, of any other 
female relation dependent on him. 

<c) Meeting the expenses in connection with the illness, including where 
necessary, the travelling, expenses, of the subscriber or any person 
actually dependent on him, 

(d) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 
cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
Joan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt of 
the application for withdrawal but not earlier than twelve months of 
that date, or reconstructing or making additions or alterations to a 
house already owned or acquired by a subscriber. 

<e) Purchasing a house-site or repaying any outstanding amount on account 
of loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt 
of the application for the withdrawal but not earlier than twelve 
months of that date. 

,. J ) For constructing a house on a site purchased utilising the sum with- 
drawn under clause (e): 

Provided that a subscriber who has availed himself of an advance under 
the Scheme of the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, for the 
grant of advances for house-building purpose, or has been allowed 
any assistance in this regard from any other Government source, 
shall not be eligible for the grant of final withdrawal under clause 
(d), (e) and (f) except for the express purpose of repayment of any 
loan taken under the aforesaid Scheme. 

(2) The actual withdrawal from the Fund shall be made only on receipt of 
an authorisation from the Account Officer concerned who will arrange this as 
soon as the formal sanction of the sanctioning authority has been Issued, 

17. Conditions for withdrawal. — (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber at 
any one time for one or more of the purposes specified in rule 16 from tne 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall not ordinarily exceed one-half 
Of the amount of subscriptions and interest thereon standing to the credit of the 
subscriber in the Fund or six months’ pay, whichever is less. The sanctioning 
authority may, however, sanction the withdrawal of an amount in excess of this 
limit upto three-fourths of the amount of subscriptions and interest thereon 
standing Jto the credit of the subscriber in the Fund having due regard to (i) the 
object for which the withdrawal is being made (ii) the status of the subscriber 
and (iii) the amount of subscriptions and interest thereon standing to the credit 
■of the subscriber in the Fund, 

(2) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money from the Fund 
under rule 16 shall satisfy the sanctioning authority within a reasonable period 
as may be specified by that authority that the money has been utilised for tne 
purpose for which It was withdrawn, and if he fails to do so, the whole of the 



1442 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


sum so withdrawn, or so much thereof as has not been applied for the purpose 
for which it was withdrawn shall forthwith be repaid in one lump sum together 
with interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 12 byi the subscriber to 
the Fund, and in default of such payment, it shall be ordered by the sanctioning 
authority to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in such 
number of monthly instalments, as may be determined by the President, 

(3) Nothing in sub-rule (2) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay tpiy interest on any sum repayable 
by him under that sub-rule. 

18. Conversion of an advance into a withdrawal. — A subscriber who has 
already drawn or may draw in future an advance under rule 13 for any of the 
purposes specified in clause (a), (b) and (cl of sub-rule (1) of rule 18 may 
convert, at his discretion, by written request addressed to the Account Officer, 
through the sanctioning authority the balance outstanding against it into a final 
withdrawal on his satisfying the conditions laid down in rules 16 and If. 

Payments towards Insurance Policies and Family Pension Funds 

19. Payment towards Insurance Policies. — Subject to the conditions contained' 
in rules 20 to 30 — 

(a) (i) subscriptions to a family pension fund approved in this behalf by 

the President; or 

(ii) payments towards a policy of life insurance, 

may, at the option of a subscriber, be substituted for the whole or 
part of subscriptions to the Fund; 

(b) the amount of subscriptions with interest thereon standing to the credit 

of a subscriber in the Fund may be withdrawn to meet — 

(i) payments towards a policy of life insurance; 

(ii) purchase of a single payment insurance policy; 

(ill) payable of a single premium or subscriptions to a family 
pension fund approved in this behalf by the President; 

Provided that no amount shall be withdrawn (1) beforo the details of the- 
proposed policy have been submitted to the Account Officer and 
accepted by him as suitable, or (2) to meet any payment or purchase 
made or effected more than three months before ths withdrawal, or 
(3) in excess of the amount required to meet a premium or subscrip- 
tion actually due for payment within three months of the date of 
withdrawal: 

Provided further that payments towards an educational endowment policy 
may not be substituted for subscriptions to the Fund and that no 
amounts may be withdrawn to meet any payment or purchase in 
respect of siu;h a policy if that policy is due for payment In whole 1 
or part before the subscriber’s age of normal superannuation, 

(c) Any amount withdrawn! under clause (b) shall be paid in whole rupees- 
only rounded to the nearest rupee fa the manner provided in sub-rule (7) of 
rule 11. 

20. Number of policies that can be financed from the Fund. — (1) The number 

of policies in respect of which substitution for subscriptions due to the Fund oi 
withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund may be permitted under rule 19, shall' 
not exceed four: 

Provided that where immediately before the 22nd June, 1953, substitution for 
subscriptions due to the Fund or withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund, 
was permitted in respect of more than four policies, such substitution or with- 
drawal shall continue to be permitted in respect of these policies. 

.(2) The premium for a policy [including any policy referred to in the proviso 
to sub-rule (1)] in respect of which withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund 
may be permitted under rule 19 shall not be payable otherwise than annually. 

Explanation. — In computing th'e maximum number of policies specified In sub- 
rule (1), policies which have matured or have been converted into paid up 
policies shall be excluded. 



Sec, 3(1 i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 3, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1443 


21. Payment of difference between substituted payments and minimum sub- 
scriptions. — (1) If the total amount of an y subscriptions or payments substituted 
under clause (a) of rule 19 is less than the amount of the minimum subscription 
payable to the Fund under rule 8, the difference shall be rounded off to the nearest 
rupee in the manner provided in sub-rule (7) of rule 11 and paid by the sub- 
scriber as a subscription to the Fund. 

(2) If the subscriber withdraws any amount standing to his credit in the Fund 
for any of the purposes specified In clause (b) of rule 19, he shall, subject to his 
option under clause (aj of that rule, continue to pay to the Fund the subscription 
payable under rule 8. 

22. Reduction of subscription in certain cases. — (1) A subscriber who desires 
to substitute a subscription or payment under clause (a) of rule 19 may reduce 
his subscription to the Fund accordingly: 

Provided that the subscriber shall — 

(a) intimate to the Account Officer on his pay-bill or by letter the fact of, 

and reason for, the reduction; 

(b) send to the Account Officer, within such period as the Account Officer 

may require, receipts or certifled copies of receipts in order to satisfy 
the Account Officer that the amount by which the subscription has 
been reduced was duly applied for the purposes specified in clause 
(a) of rule 19. 

(2) A subscriber who desires to withdraw any amount under clause (d) of 
rule 19 shall — < 

(a) intimate the reason for the withdrawal to the Account Officer by 

letter; 

(b) make arrangements with the Account Officer for withdrawal; 

(c) send to the Account Officer, within such period as the Account Officer 

may require, receipts or certified copies of receipts In order to 
satisfy the Account Officer that the amount withdrawn was duly 
applied for the purposes specified In clause (b) of rule 19. 

(3) The Account Officer shall order the recovery of any amount by which 
subscriptions have been reduced, or any amount withdrawn, In respect of which 
he has not been satisfied In the manner required by clause (b) of sub-rule (1) 
and clause (c) of sub-rule (2), with Interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 
12 from the emoluments of the subscriber and place it to the credit of the sub- 
scriber in the Fund. 


23. Government not to make payments to insurer on behalf of subscriber —Cl) 
erovernment shall not make any payments on behalf of subscribers to insurance 
companies, nor take steps to keep a policy alive. 


^ ^material what form the policy takes, provided that it shall be one 
effected by the subscriber himself on his own life and shall (unless it Is a policy 
expressed on the face of it to be for the benefit of his wife, or of his wife and 

MmselTto° r the n Presided SUCh * S m3y bs lc£ally ^signed by the subscriber 


Explanation 1.— A policy on the joint lives of the subscriber and his wife shall 
sub riflT ed to be a P ol icy on the life of the subscriber for the purpose of this 


Explanation 2.— A policy, which has been assigned to the subscriber’s wife 
shall not be accepted unless either the policy is first re-assigned t 0 the subscriber 
or the subscriber and his wife both join in an appropriate assignment. 

,, (3) The poUcy may no t be effected for the benefit of am- beneficiary other 

than the wife of the subscriber or his wife and children or any of them. 

, Assignment of Policies.— ( 1 ) The policy, within six months after the first 
Withholding of a subscription or withdrawal from the Fund in respect of the 
policy, or. in the case of an Insurance company whose headquarters are outside 
India, within such further period as the Account Officer, if he is satisfied by the 
production of the completion certificate (interim receipt), may fix, shall 

(S) U tvt S w 1 )f f . i nf a i^ 1ICy >, eX ?u e3Sed * be face of Jt t0 be for the benefit of 
the wife of the subscriber, or of his wife and children, or any of them, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


1444 


be assigned to the President, as security tor the payment of any sum 
which may become payable to the Fund under rules 2G to 30, and 
delivered to the Account Officer, the assignment being made by en- 
dorsement on the policy in Form (1) or Form (2) or Form (3) of the 
Forms in the Second Schedule according as the policy is on the life 
of the subscriber or on the joint lives of the subscriber and his wife 
or the policy has previously been assigned to the subscriber’s wife; 

(b) if It is a policy expressed on the face of it to be for the benefit of the 
wife of the subscriber, or of his wife and children, or any of them, 
be delivered to the Account Officer, 

(2) The Account Officer shall satisfy himself by reference to the Insurance 
company, where possible, that no prior assignment of the policy exists. 

(3) Once a policy has been accepted by an Account Officer for the purpose of 
oelng financed from the Fund, the terms of the policy shall not be altered nor 
shall the policy be exchanged for another policy without the prior consent of the 
Account Officer to whom details of the alteration or of the new policy shall be 
furnished. 

(4) If the policy is not assigned and delivered, or delivered, within the said 
period of six months or such further period a? the Account Officer may, under 
sub-rule (11, have fixed, any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund in 
respect of the policy shall, with interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 12, 
forthwith be paid or repaid, as the case may be, by, the subscriber to the Fund, 
or, in default be ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction from 
the emoluments of the subscriber, by instalments or otherwise, as may be directed 
by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which, special 
reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 13. 

(51 Notice of assignment of the policy shall be given by the subscriber to the 
insurance company, and the acknowledgment of the notice by the insurance com- 
pany shall be sent to the Account Officer within three months of the date of 
assignment. 

Nota 1, — Subscribers are advised to send notice of the assignment to the 
insurance company in duplicate, accompanied, In cases in which the notice has to 
be sent to a company in Great Britain or Ireland, by a remittance of five shillings, 
which is the fee for the acknowledgment authorised by the Policies of Assurance 
Act, 1867, The policy Itself, hearing the assignment endorsed thereon, need not 
be sent to the Company, as insurance companies do not ordinarily require the 
production of the original instruments affecting a policy-holder’s title until the 
policy becomes a claim. 

Note 2. — Subscribers who proceed to Great Britain or Ireland on quitting the 
service are advised that under the English Stamp Law assignments or re-assign- 
ments are required to be stamped within 30 days of their first arrival in those 
countries. Otherwise penalty will be Incurred under the Stamp Act, and difficul- 
ties may arise when the policy matures for payment. 

25. Bonus on Policies. — The subscriber shall not during the currency of the 
policy draw any bonus the drawal of which during such currency is optional under 
the terms of the policy and the amount of any bonus which under the terms of 
the policy the subscriber has no option to refrain from drawing during Its currency 
shall be paid forthwith into the Fund by the subscriber or in default recovered 
by reduction from his emoluments by instalments or otherwise as may he directed 
by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which special 
reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 13. 

26. Re-assignment of Policies— (1) Save as provided by rule SO, when the 
lubscriber— 

(a) quits the service, or 

(b) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retirement and applies to the 

Account Officer for re-assignment or return of the policy, or 

(c) while on leave, has been permitted to retire or declare by competent 

medical authority to be unfit for further service and applies to the 
Account Officer for re-assignment or return of the policy, or 

(d) pays or repays to the Fund the whole of any amount withheld or 

withdrawn from the Fund for any of the purposes mentioned in sub- 
clause (11) of clause (a) and sub-clauses (1) and (111 of clause (b) 
of rule 19. with Interest thereon at the rate provided In rule 12, 



Seq. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAK.HA 15, 1884 1445 


the Account Officer shall — 

(i) If the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 24, reassign 
the policy in Form I in the Third Schedule to the subscriber or to the 
subscriber and the joint assured, as the case may be, and make it 
over to the subscriber, together with a signed notice of the re-assign- 
ment addressed to the insurance company; 

(.ii) if the policy has been delivered to him under clause (b)’ of sub-rule (1) 
of rule 24 make over the policy to the subscriber; 

Provided that, if the subscriber, after proceeding on leave preparatory to 
retirement, or after being, while on leave, permitted to retire or 
declared by competent medical authority to be unfit for further ser- 
vice, returns to duty, any policy so reassigned or made over shall, if 
it has not matured or been assigned or charged or encumbered in any 
way, be again ‘assigned to the President and delivered to the 
Account Officer, or again be delivered to the Account Officer, as the 
case may be, in the manner provided in rule 24, and thereupon the 
provisions of these rules shall, so far as may be, again apply in 
respect of the policy: 

Provided further that, if the policy has matured or been assigned or charged 
or encumbered in any way, the provisions of sub-rule (4) of rule 24 
applicable to a failure to assign and deliver a policy shall apply. 

(2) Save as provided by sub-rule (31 of rule 28, when the subscriber dies be- 
fore quitting the service, the Account Officer shall — 

(i) if the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 24, re-assign 

the policy in Form If in the Third Schedule to such person as may 
be legally entitled to receive it, and shall make over the policy to 
such person together with a signed notice of the re-assignment 
addressed to the Insurance Company; 

(ii) if the policy has been delivered to him under clause .(b) of sub-rule (1) 

of rule 24, make over the policy to the beneficiary, if any, or. if there 
is no beneficiary to such person as may be legally entitled to receive 


27. Procedure on maturity of policies.— (1) If a policy assigned to tho President 
under rule 24 matures before the subscriber quits the service, or if a policy on 
the joint lives of a subscriber and his wife, assigned under the said rule, falls 
due for payment by reason of the wife’s death, the Account Officer shall, save as 
provided by rule 30, proceed as follows:— 

(i) if the amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuses 

is greater than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn from 
the Fund in respect of the policy with interest thereon at the rate 
provided in rule 12, the Account Officer shall reassign the policy in 
the Form in the Fourth Schedule to the subscriber or to tho subscriber 
and the joint assured as the case jna.v be, and make it over to the 
subscriber, _ who shall pay or repay to the Fund the whole of any 
amount withheld or withdrawn with Interest, and in default, the pro- 
visions of rule 31 shall apply as they apply in relation to cases where 
money withheld or withdrawn from the Fund under clause (al or 
clause (b) of rule 19 has been utilised for a purpose other than that 
for which sanction was given to the withholding or withdrawal; 

(ii) If the amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuses 

is less than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn with 
Interest, the Account Officer shall realise the amount assured together 
with any accrued bonuses and shall place the amount so realised to 
the credit of the subscriber in the Fund. 

(2) Save as provided by rule 30, if a policy delivered to the Account Officer 
under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 24 matures before the subscriber quits the 
service, the Account Officer shall make over the policy to the subscriber: 

Provided that if the interest in the policy of the wife of the subscriber, or of 
his wife and children, or any of them, as expressed on the face of the policy, 
expires when the policy matures, the subscriber, if the policy moneys are paid to 



1446 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


him by the Insurance Company, shall immediately on receipt thereof pay or re- 
pay to the Fund either — 

(i) the whole of any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund In res- 
pect of the policy with Interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 12 

or 

(11) an amount equal to the amount assured together with any accrued 
bonuses, whichever is less, and, in default, the provisions of rule 31 
shall apply as they apply in relation to cases where money withheld 
or withdrawn from the Fund under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 
19 has been utilised for a purpose other than that for which sanction 
was given to the withholding or withdrawal. 


28. Procedure on cessation of Interest of the subscriber In the family pension 
Fund. — If the interest of the subscriber in the family pension fund ceases in whole 
or part from any cause whatsover, the providant fund account of the subscriber 
shall forthwith be reimbursed by the amount of the refund, if any, secured by the 
subscriber from the family pension fund which amount shall, in default of re- 
imbursement, be deducted from the subscriber’s emoluments by instalments or 
otherwise, as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance 
for the grant of which special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 13. 

29. Lapse or wrongful assignment of policies,— If the policy lapses or becomes 
assigned otherwise than to tha President under rule 24, charged or encumbered, 
the provisions of sub-rule (4) of rule 24 applicable to a failure to assign and 
deliver a policy shall apply. 

30. Duty of Account Officer when he receives notice of assignment, charge or 
encumbrance of policies. — If the Account Officer receives notice of — 

(a) an assignment (other than an assignment to the President under rule 

24), or 

(b) a charge or encumbrance on, or 

(c) an order of a Court restraining dealings with the policy or any amount 

realised thereon, 


the Account Officer suhll not — 


(i) re-assign or make over the policy as provided in rule 26, or 

(il) realise the amount assured by the policy, or re-assign, or make over 
the policy as provided in rule 27. 


but shall forthwith refer the matter to the Government. 

31. Wrongful use of money withheld or withdrawn.— Notwithstanding anything 
contained in these rules, If the sanctioning authority is satisfied that money with- 
held or withdrawn fripm the Fund under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 19 has 
for a purpose other than that for which sanction was given to the 
Withholding or withdrawal of the money, the amount in question, shall with in- 
terest at the rate provided in rule 12, forthwith be repaid or paid, as the’ case may 
be by the subscriber to the Fund, or in default, be ordered to be recovered by 
deduction In one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber, even if he be on 
If th f to ^l mount to be repaid or paid, as the case may be, be more than 
half the subscriber s emoluments recoveries shall be made in monthly instal- 
ments of moieties of his emoluments till the entire amount is repaid or paid as 
the case may be, by him, 1 1 ’ 


Note.— T he term 'emoluments’ in this rule does not include subsistence grant. 

32. Restriction of the provisions relating to financing of policies to existing 
subscribers in respect of existing policies. — The provisions of rules 19 to 31 shall 

h P »n y o 0 u tu t0 i- SU f rlb f S , Wh0 '. before the date of publication of these rules, have 
been substituting in whole or in part, payments towards policies of life insurance 

payments' 1 ^ 10113 t0 the Flmd 0r makin « withdrawals from the Fund for such 


Provided that such subscribers shall not be 
ments j for subscriptions due to the Fund or to w 
such payments in respect of any new policy. 


permitted to substitute such pay- 
ithdraw from the Fund for making 



Sec, 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VA15AK.HA 15. 1884 


Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Fund. 

33. Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Fund. — -When a subscriber quits 
the service, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall, subject to any 
deduction under rule 38, become payable to him: 

Provided that a subscriber, who has been dismissed from the service and is 
subsequently re-instated in the service, shall, if required to do so by Government, 
repay any amount paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of this rule, with in- 
terest thereon at the rate provided in rule 12 in the manner provided in the pro- 
viso to rule 34. The amount so repaid shall be credited to his account in the 
Fund, the part which represents his subscriptions and interest thereon, and the 
part which represents the Government contribution with interest thereon, being 
accounted for in the manner provided in rule 6. 

Explanation . — A subscriber, other than one who is appointed on contract or 
one who has retired from service and is subsequently re-employed, with or with- 
out a break in service, shall not be deemed to quit the service, when he is trans- 
ferred without any break in service to a new post under a State Government or in 
another department of the Central Government (in which he is governed by 
another set of Provident Fund Rules) and without retaining any connection with 
his former post. In such a case, his subscription and the Government contribu- 
tion, together with interest thereon, shall be transferred — 

(a) to his account in the other Fund in accordance with the rules of that 
Fund, If the new post is in another department of the Central Govern- 
ment, or 

.(b) to a new account under the State Government concerned, if the new 
post Is under a State Government and the State Government con- 
sents, by general or special order, to such transfer of hls subscriptions, 
the Government contribution and interest. 

Note. — Transfers should be held to include eases of resignations from service 
in order to take up appointment in another Department of the Central Govern- 
ment or under the State Government without any break and with proper permis- 
sion of the Central Government. In cases where there has been a break in service, 
it shall be limited to the Joining time allowed on transfer to a different station. 

The same shall hold good in cases of retrenchments followed by immediate 
employment whether under the same or different Gqvernment. 

34. Retirement of subscriber. — When a subscriber — 

(a) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retirement or, If he is employed 

in a vacation Department, on leave preparatory to retirement com- 
bined with vacation, or 

(b) while on leave, has been permitted to retire or declared by competent 

medical authority to be unfit for further service, 

the amount of subscription and interest thereon standing to his credit In the Fund, 
shall, upon application made by him In that behalf to the Account Officer, become 
payable to the subscriber: 

Provided that the subscriber, if he returns to duty, shall, if required to do so 
by Government, repay to the Fund, for credit to his account, the whole or part of 
any amount paid to him from the Fund In pursuance of this rule, with interest 
thereon at the rate provided in rule 12 in cash or securities, or partly In cash and 
partly in securities, by instalments or otherwise, by recovery from hls emoluments 
or otherwise, as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance 
for the grant of which special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 13. 

35. Procedure on death of subscriber. — Subject to any deduction under rule 36, 
on the death of a subscriber before the amount standing to his credit has become 
payable, or where the amount has become payable, before payment has been made; 

(I) When the subscriber leaves a family, — 

(a) if a nomination made by the subscriber in accordance with the provi- 
sions of rule 5 in favour of a member or members of his family 
subsists, the amount standing to hls credit in the Fund or the part 
thereof to which the nomination relates, shall become payable to hls 
nominee or nominees in the proportion specified in the nomination; 




1448 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5 , 1962/VAISAKHA 15 , 1884 [Part II 


(b) If no such norpination In favour of a member or members of the family 
of the subscriber subsists, or if such nomination relates only to a 
part of the amount standing to his credit in the Fund, the whole 
amount or the part thereof to which the nomination does not relate, 
as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding any nomination purporting 
to be in favour of any person or persons other than a member of 
members of his family become payable to the members of his family 
in equal shares: 

Provided that no share shall be payable to- 
il) sons who have attained majority; 

(2) sons of a deceased son who have attained majority; 

(3) married daughters whose husbands are alive; 

(4) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive; 

if there is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses (1), (2), 
(3) and (4): 

Provided also that the widow or widows and the child or children of a de- 
ceased son shail receive between them in equal parts only the share which that 
son would have received if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted 
from the provisions of clause (1) of the first proviso. 

Note. — Any sum payable under these rules to a member of the family of a 
subscriber vests in such member under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Provident 
Funds Act, 1925. 

(ii) When the subscriber leaves no family, If a nomination made by him in 
accordance with the provisions of rule 5, in favour of any person or 
persons subsists, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund or 
the part thereof to which the nomination relates, shall become payable 
to his nominee or nominees in the proportion specified in the nomina- 
tion. 

Note 1. — When a nominee is a dependant of the subscriber as defined in clause 
(c) of section 2 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925, the amount vests in such nominee 
under sub-section (2) of section 3 of that Act. 

Note 2.— When the subscriber leaves no family and no nomination made by him 
in accordance with the provisions of rule 5 subsists, or If such nomination relates 
only to part of the amount standing to his credit in the Fund, the relevant provi- 
sions of clause (b) and of sub-clause (ii) of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 
4 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925, are applicable to the Whole amount or the 
part thereof to which the nomination does not relate. 


Deductions 

39, Deductions.— Subject to the condition that no deduction may be made which 
reduces the credit by more than the amount of any contribution by Government 
with interest thereon credited under rules 11 and 12, before the amount standing 
to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund Is paid out of the Fund, the President 
may direct the deduction therefrom and payment to Government of — 

(a) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 

grave misconduct: 

Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled, the 
the amount so deducted shall, on his reinstatement in the service, 
be replaced to his credit in the Fund; 

(b) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his employment under Govern- 

ment within 5 years of the commencement thereof otherwise than by 
reason of superannuation or a declaration by competent medical 
authority that he is- unfit for further service; 

(c) any amount due under a liability Incurred by the subscriber to Govern- 

ment, 

Note. — For the purpose of clause (b) of this rule, the period of 5 years shall be 
reckoned from the commencement of the subscriber’s continuous service under 
Government. 



Sec. S(ii>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VA1SAKHA 15, 1884 1449 


Payment. 

37. Maimer of payment of amouut in the Fund. — (1) When the amount standing 
to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund, or the balance thereof after any deduc- 
tion under ru,e 36, becomes payable, it shall be the duty of the Account Officer, 
after satisfying himself, when no such deduction has been directed under that 
rule, that no deduction is to be made, to make payment on receipt of a written 
application in this behalf as provided in sub-rule (3), 

(2) If tho person to whom, under these rules, any amount or policy is to be 
paid, assigned, re-assigned or delivered is a lunatic for whose estate a manager has 
been appointed in this behalf under the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912, the payment or 
re-assignment or delivery will be made to sufh manager, and not to the lunatic. 

(3) Any person who desires to claim payment under this rule shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Account Officer. Payment of amounts 
withdrawn shall be made in India only. The persons to whom the amounts are 
payable shall make their own arrangements to receive payfnent in India. 

Note.— When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has become 
payable under Rule 33, 34 or 35, the Account Officer shall authorise prompt 
payment of that portion of the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in 
regard to which there is no dispute or doubt, 'the balance being adjusted as soon 
after as may be. 


Pensionable Service 

38. Procedure on transfer to pensionable service. — ( 1 ) If a subscriber Is perma- 
nently transferred to pensionable service under the President, he shall, at his 
option, be entitled — 

(a) to continue to subscribe to the Fund, in which case he shall not be 

entitled to any pension; or 

(b) to earn pension In respect of such pensionable service, in which case, 

with effect from the date of his permanent transfer — 

(i) he shall cease to subscribe to the Fund; 

(it) the amount of contributions by Government with interest thereon 
standing to his credit In the Fund shall be repaid to Government; 

(iii) the amount of subscriptions together with interest thereon standing to 

hts credit in the Fund shall be transferred to his credit in the 
General Provident Fund, to which thereafter he shall subscribe in 
accordance with the rules of that Fund, and 

(iv) he shall be entitled to count towards pension such part of the period as 

Government may determine. 

( 2 ) A subscriber shall communicate his option under sub-rule (1) by a letter 
to the Account Officer within three months of the date of the order transferring 
him permanently to pensionable service; and, if no communication is received in 
the office of the Account Officer within that period, the subscriber shall be deemed 
to have exercised his option in the manner referred to in clause (a) of that sub-rule. 


Procedure Rules 

39. Number of account to be Quoted at the time of payment of subscription. — 
When paying subscription in India either by deduction from emoluments or In 
cash, a subscriber shall quote the number of his account in the Fund already 
communicated to him by the Account Officer. 

Note.— It shall be the duty of the Account Officer to communicate to the sub- 
scriber any change in the number assigned to his account. 

40. Annual statement of account to be supplied to subscriber,— (I) As soon as 
possible after the 31st March of each year, the Account Officer shall send to each 
subscriber a statement of his account in the Fund, showing the opening balance 
as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or debited during the 
year, the total amount of interest credited as on the 31st March of the year and 



145 o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAK.HA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


the closing balance on that date. The Account Officer shall attach to the statement 
of account an enquiry whether the subscriber — 

(a) desires to make any alteration in any nomination made under rule 5; 

(b) has acquired a family in cases where the subscriber has made no nomi- 

nation in favour of a member of his family under the proviso to 
sub-rule (1) of rule 5, 

(2) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement, and errors should be brought to the notice of the Account Officer within 
three months from the date of receipt of the statement. 

(3) The Account Officer shall, if required by subscriber, once, but not more 
than once in a year, inform the subscriber of the total amount standing to his 
credit in the Fund at the end of the last month for which his account has been 
written up. 


General 

41. Relaxation of the provisions of the rules In Individual cases. — When the 
President is satisfied that the operation of any of these rules causes or is likely 
to cause undue hardship to a subscriber, he may, notwithstanding anything con- 
tained in these rules deal with the case of such subscriber in such manner as may 
appear to him to be just and equitable. 

42. ’ Interpretation. — If any question arises relating to the interpretation of 
these rules, it shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision thereon 
shall be final. 

43. Repeal. — The Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India) are hereby 
repealed. 



Sfc. 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


FIRST SCHEDULE 
[See rule 5(3)] 

Forms of Nomination 

f , When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below, who is a member of my family as defined in 
rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962, to receive the amount that may 
stand to my credit in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, 
or having become payable, has not been paid : — 


Name and address 
of nominee 

Relationship with 
subscriber 

Age 

Contingencies on 
the happening 
of which the no- 
mination shall 
become Invalid 

Name, address and! 
relationship of the 
person/persons, if any, 
to whom the right 
of the nominee shall 
pass in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
subscriber 



! 




Dated this 


at 


day of, 


I? 


Signature of subscriber. 


Two witnesses to signature. 


2 




1452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 3, 1962/VAISAKHA 13, 1884 [Part II 


II, When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below, who are members of my family as defined 
in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962 , to receive the amount that may 
stand to my credit in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amoupt has become payable, 
or hiving become pnyable has not been paid and direct that the said amount shall be distributed 
among the said persons in the minner shown below against their names: — - 


Name and ad- 
dress of nomi- 
nees 

Relationship with 
| subscriber 

Age 

♦Amount 
or share 
of accu- 
mulations 
to be 
paid to 
each 

Contingen- 
cies on the 
happening 
of which 
the nomina- 
tion shall 
become 
invalid 

Name, address 
and relationship 
of the person/per - 
sons if any, to 
whom the right 
of the nominee 
shall pass in the 
event of his pre- 
[ deceasing the 
subscriber 

1 

1 


l 

1 

! 

j 



Dated this . . day of 19 

at 


Signature of subscriber 


Two witnesses to signature. 


X 


2 


♦Note : — This column should be filled In so to cover the whole amount that may stand to 
the credit of the subscriber In the Fund at any time. 



■Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the C antribucory Provident Funi Rules (India), 
196 a, hereby nominate the person mentioned below to receive the amount thic may stand to my 
-credit in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount has becone payible, or having 
become payable has not been paid : — 


"Name and Address 
of nominee 

Relationship 

with 

subscriber 

Age 

••Contingencies 
on the happen- 
ing of which the 
nomination 
shall become 
Invalid. 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person/persons. if any, 
to whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pasB in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
subscriber 



1 

1 

i 

1 

1 

1 

! 

i 

1 

! 


Dated this 

at 


day of, 


19 


Signature of subscriber. 


Two witnesses to signature. 


1 


a 


♦♦Note : — Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall specify in this 
column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently 
acquiring a family. 




1454 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part 11 


IV. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India) 
1962, hereby nominate the persons mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my 
credit in the Fund in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having 
become payable has not been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among 
the said persons in the manner shown below against their names: — 


Name and ad- 
dress of nomi- 
nees 

Relationship 

with 

subscriber 

Age 

* Amount 
or share 
of accu- 
mulations 
to be paid 
to each 

♦♦Contingen- 
cies on the 
happening 
of which 
the nomina- 
tion shall 
become 
invalid. 

- Name, address 
and relationship 
of the person / 
persons, if any, 
to whom the right 
of the nominee 
shall pass in the 
event of his pre- 
deceasing the 
subscriber. 








Dated this 
at 


day of, 


19 


Signature of subscriber, 


Two witness to signature 


I 


2 


♦Note : — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that may stand to 
the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

♦♦Note : — Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination he shall specify in this 
column that the nomination shall become invalid In the event of his subsequently 
acquiring a family. 



Sec. 8(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


SECOND SCHEDULE (RULE 24). 
Forms of Assignment, 

(1) 


I, A. 3., of hereby assign unto the 

President of India the within policy of assurance as security for payment of all sums which under 
rule 29 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962, 1 may hereafter become liable to 
pay to the Contributory Provident Fund (India). 


I hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this day of . . 19 

Station 


Signature of subscriber. 

One witness to Signature. 


(2) 


We, A. B. (the subscriber) of and C. D. (the joint assured) 

of in consideration of the President of India agreeing at our request to 

accept payments towards the within policy of assurance in substitution for the subscriptions payable 
by me the said A.B. to the Contributory Provident Fund (India) (or, as the case may be, to accept 

the withdrawal of the sum ofRs from the sum to the credit 

of the said A. B. in the Contributory Provident Fund (India) for payment of the premium of the 
within policy of assurance), hereby jointly and severally assign unto the said President of India 
the within policy of assurance as security for payment of all sums which under rule 29 of the rules 
of the said Fund , the said A. B . may hereafter become liable to pay to that Fund. 


We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 


Dated this 


•day of 


..,19 


Station 


Signature of subscriber, 
and the Joint Assured. 


1456 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAJSAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


( 3 ) 

I, C.D., wife of A.B. and the assignee of the within policy, having at the request of A.B., the 
assured, agreed to release my interest in the policy in favour of A.B., in order that A.B. may assign 
the policy to the President of India who has agreed to accept payments towards the within policy 
of assurance in substitution for the subscriptions payable by A.B. to the Contributory Provided t 
Fund (India) hereby at the request and by tho direction of A.B. assign and I the said A.B. assign 
and confirm unto the President of India the within policy of assurance as security for p iym;nt of 
all sums which under rule 29 of the rules of the said Fund, the said A.B. miy hereafter b : : a n 5 liable 
to pay to the Fund. 


We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 


Dated this 


day of, 


19 


Station , 


Signature of the assignee and the 
subscriber. 


One witness to signature. 


(4) 


Form of single tenant assignment to be used in cases where a subscriber to the 

Provident Fund who has effected an insurance policy under the rules of that Fund is admitted to 
the Contributory Provident Fund (India). 

I of 

(Subscriber’s name) (Subscribers’ address) 

assign unto the President of India rhe within policy of assurance as security for the payment of all 

sums which under rule 29 of the C ontribucory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962 , the said 

may hereafter become liable to pay to the contributory Provident Fund 

(subscriber’s name) 

(India). 

I hereby certifythat except an assignment to the President of India/Governor of the Stateof. . . . 

as security for payment of all sums which the said 

(subscriber’s name) 

has become liable to pay under Rule of the 

Provident Fund Rules, no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this ,day of 19 


Station. . . . 
one witness 


Signature of the subscriber, 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1457 


(5) 

Form of jointtenant assignment to be used incases where a subscriber to the. 

Provident Fund who has effected an insurance policy under the Rules of that Fund is admitted to 
the Contributory Provident Fund (India) 


We of 

(subscriber’s name) (subscriber’s address) 

and , wife of 

(Wife’s name) . 

hereby jointly and severally further assign unto the President of India the within policy of assurance- 
as a security for the payment of all sums which under rule 29 of the Contributory Provident Fund 

Rules (India), 1962, the said nla Y 

(subscriber’s name) 

hereafter become liable to pay to the Contributory Provident Fund (India). 


We hereby certify that except an assignment to the President of India/Govcmor of the State- 

of .as security for payment of all sums which the said has. 

(subscriber’s name) 

become liable to pay under rule of the. . . . 

Provident Fund Rules, no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this day of 19 

Station. 

One witness 


Signature of the subscriber and the 
joint tenant. 


Note The assignment may be executed on the policy itself either in the subscriber’s hand- 
writing or in type, or alternatively a typed or printed slip containing the assignment may be pasted 
on the blank space provided for the purpose on the policy. A typed or printed endorsement must 
be duly signed and if pasted on the policy it must be initialled across all four margins. 


THIRD SCHEDULE (RULE 26)] 


Forms of Reassignment and Assignment by the President of India 


Form I 


All sums which have become payable by the above-named A.B. under rule 29 of the Contri- 
butory Provident Fund Rules (India), T962, having been paid and or all liability for payment by 
him of any such sums in the future having ceased the President of India doth hereby re-assign the 
within policy of assurance to the siad A.B. 


A. B. and C. D. 


Dated this day of 19 


Executed by 


Account Officer of the Fund for 

and on behalf of the President of India in the presence of 


Y.Z. 


\ 


X. Y. 

(Signature of the Account 
Officer). 


(One witness who should add his designation and address). 



1458 THE gazette OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1 962/VA ISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Form II. 


The above named A,B. having died on the day of 

19 1 the President of India doth hereby assign the within policy of 

Assurance to C.D 


Dated this 


day of. 


19 


Executed by "| 

Account Officer of the F und for and on behalf of the President of y 

India in the presence of J (Signature 


Y.Z. 


X. Y. 
of the 
Officer). 


(One witness who should add his designation and address). 


Account 


FOURTH SCHEDULE 
(RULE 27 ) 

Form of Reassignment by the President of India. 


The President of India dsth hereby reassign the within policy to the said A. B. 


A. B. and C.D. 

Dated this day of 19 

Executed by "1 

Account Officer of the Fund for and on behalf of the President of h X.Y. 

India in the presence of J (Signature of the Account 

Officer). 


Y. Z. 

(One witness who should add his designation and address). 


FIFTH SCHEDULE 
(RULE 13) 

Authorities competent to grant temporary advances. 

1. An advance for the grant of which special reasons are not required under 
.sub-rule (2) of rule 13, may be sanctioned by the authority competent to grant an 
advance of pay on transfer under rule 265 of the General Financial Rules, Volume 
1 , or, if the applicant is competent to sanction the advance of pay to himself on 
transfer, by the administrative authority next higher to the applicant. 

Note : — Advances to temporary Government servants may be sanctioned by 
the authority who is competent to sanction advance of pay on transfer for perma- 
nent Government servants. 

2. An advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under sub- 
rule (2) of rule 13 may be sanctioned by — 

A Ministry or a Department of the Government of India. 

A Chief Commissioner /Lieutenant-Governor. 

An authority declared by the Central Government to be the Head of a Depart- 
ment under clause (10) of rule 2 of the Supplementary Rules, but not including 
any authority declared to be the Head of a Department by a Chief Commissioner/ 
Lieutenant-Governor. 


^‘Fill in particulars of person legally entitled to receive the policy. 



Sic. S(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1459 


The General Managers, Managers, Works Managers and Assistant Managers 
(Technical) of the Government of India Presses, functioning as heads of Presses. 

The Manager of the Forms Press, Aligarh. 

The Controller of Stationery. 

The Manager of the Forms Press, Calcutta. 

The Manager of Publications, New Delhi. 

The Controller of Patents and Designs. 

Provided that where the appointing authority of the applicant is higher than 
the Head ol Department or other authority mentioned in the above list under 
whose administrative control he Is serving, the Head of Department or other 
authority, as the case may be, shall not reject his application for an advance save 
with the approval — 

(a) of the Comptroller and Auditor-General, in the case of officers of the 

Indian Audit and Accounts Service, and 

(b) of the appointing authority, in other cases; 

Provided further that where the applicant for an advance for which special 
reasons are required, is himself competent to sanction the advance under the 
aforesaid provisions, the authority competent to sanction the advance shall be — 

(i) in the case of officers of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service, the 

Comptroller and Auditor-General; 

(ii) in other cases, the appointing authority of the applicant. 

[No. F. 11(2)-EY(B)/61.]. 

N. K. BHOJWANI, Dy. Secy. 

MEMORANDUM EXPLANATORY OF THE CONTRIBUTORY PROVIDENT FUND 

RULES (INDIA), 1962 

(Against each rule, the corresponding rule in the rules previously in force 
has been given Vithin brackets. ) 

Rule 1 (Rule 1), — The rules come into force at once, 

Rule 2 (Rule 2). — (1) (i) The definition of 'Account Officer’ has been enlarged 
to include the Pay & Accounts Officer. 

fii) Reference to sterling overseas pay has been omitted from the definition 
of ‘emoluments’ as no one who is subject to these rules is in receipt of such 

pay- 

Dearness pay has been included in the term ‘emoluments’, This is necessary 
to cover cases of those Government servants who may not elect the revised scales 
of pay under the Central Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 1960. 

(v) The definition of ‘leave’ has been enlarged to include leave under the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933. 

(3) This is a new sub-rule and is self-explanatory. 

Rule 3 (Rule 3).— Rule 29 in the rules previously in force has been incorpo- 
rated as sub-rule (2). 

Rule 4 (Rule 4) .—Apart from certain verbal amendments, the foot-note 
regarding admission of re-employed pensioners to the benefits of the Fund has 
been inserted as a note below sub-rule fl). Sub-rule (3) of the rule previously 
in force has been deleted in view of the provision made in • sub- rule (3) Of 
rule 2. 

Rule 5 (Rule 5).— A sentence has been added at the end of clause (a) of 
sub-iule (5). This is self-explanatory. 



1460 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Rule 6 ( Rule 0). — A new item (v) has been added at the end of the rule. 

Rule 7 (Rule 7).— The subscription will not now be optional during leave on, 
average pay or earned leave of less than one month or 30 days’ duration, as the 
case may be. 

Rule 8 ( Rule 8) . — Under sub-rule (4) a subscriber can now reduce the sub- 
scription also once in the course of a year. 

Rule 9 ( Rule 8A), — No change. 

Rule 10 ( Rule 9). — In sub-rule (1) the provision relating to sterling overseas 
pay has been deleted. 

Rule 11 ( Rule 10). — No change. 

Rule 12 (Rule 11). — No change. 


Rule 13 (Rule 12). — This rule has been modified on the lines of rule 12 of 
the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960 as amended, In 
ordinary cases, an advance is limited to three months’ pay or one-half of the 
amount of subscription with interest thereon standing to tne credit of the sub- 
scriber. In special cases, the limit may be raised to the extent of the amount 
of subscription with interest thereon as provided in sub-rule (2). 


Rule 14 (Rule 14). — The recovery of the advance cannot now be postponed 
when a subscriber is on leave on average pay or earned leave of less than one 
month or 30 days’ duration, as the case may be. 


The word ‘Mahammadan’ has been omitted from the proviso to clause (a) 
of sub-rule (4) and to sub-rule (6). 


Rule 15 (Rule 22 A ). — This rule incorporates the provisions in rule 22A of the 
rules previously in force confining it to advances. Rule 31 is confined to .with- 
holding or withdrawal of money from the Fund for purposes of financing insurance 
policies. 


Rule 16 (New Rule ). — This rule lays down the conditions of eligibility and 
also specifies the purposes for which final withdrawals are allowed. Provision 
has also been made for final withdrawal to meet medical expenses, including 
where necessary, tire travelling expenses. 


Rule 17 (New Rule ). — The amount of the withdrawal shall not ordinarily 
exceed six months' pay or one-half of the amount of subscription with interest 
thereon standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund, whichever is less, 
The sanctioning authority can sanction an amount in excess of this limit but only 
up to three-fourths of the amount of subscription with Interest thereon standing 
to the credit of the subscriber. 


Sub-rule (2) contains a penal provision to cover cases where a subscriber 
withdraws money from the Fund and does not use it for the purpose for which 
the withdrawal is made. All the other conditions prescribed from time to time 
have been done away with in order to simplify the rules, 


For the purpose of this rule also pay has been taken to include dearness pay, 
where admissible) 


Rule 18 (New Rule ). — This rule provides for conversion of an advance into a 
final withdrawal subject to the conditions laid down in rules 16 and 17. 



Sue. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 y VA T SAKH A 15, 1884 1461 


Rules 19 to 30 (Rules 15 to 22). — These rules incorporate the provisions con- 
tained in rules 15 to 22 of the rules previously in force, with a few verbal amend- 
ments here and there. Under rules 25 and 28 the power previously vested in the 
President and Government respectively, will now be exercised by the authority 
competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which special reasons are 
required under sub-rule (2) of rule 13. 


Rule 31 ( Rule 22 A) .—This corresponds to rule 22A of the rules previously 
in force but is confined to withholding or withdrawal 61 money from the Puna 
for financing insurance policies. A separate rule 15 has been included relating 
to advances. 


Rule 32 (New Rule ).—' This is a new rule making the provisions contained in 
rules 19 to 31 applicable only to subscribers who were financing their insurance 
policies from the Fund before the date of publication of these rules. This rule 
does not, however, permit those subscribers to finance any new policy from the 
Fund. 


Rule 33 (Rule 23). — No change, 


Rule 34 (Rule 24).— Under the proviso to this rule the power previously 
vested in the President will now be exercised by the authority competent to sanc- 
tion an advance for the grant of which special reasons are requited Under sub- 
rule (2) rule 13. 

Rule 35 (Rule 25). — No change. 


Rule 36 (Rule 26). — A note has been inserted below this rule incorporating 
the decision conveyed in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) 
Office Memorandum No. F. 57 (6) -EVB/60, dated the 29th June 1960. 


Rule 37 (Rule 27). — In sub-rule (1) provision has been made requiring the 
submission of a written application for withdrawal of the accumulations in the 
Fund when they become payable. 


Rule 38 (Rule 28). — In clause (iii) of sub-rule (1) the earlier provision 
regarding optional subscription to the General Provident Fund has been omitted 
since subscription to the General Provident Fund is now compulsory. 


The words ‘during which he subscribed to the Fund’ contained in clause (iv) 
of this sub-rule has been omitted as service during which a subscriber did not 
subscribe to the Fund is also allowed to count towards pension in certain circum- 
stances. 

Rule 39 (Rule 30). — No change. 

Rule 40 (Rule 31). — No change. 

Rale 41 (New Rule ). — This corresponds tc rule 35 of the All India Services 
(Provident Fund) Rules, 1955 


Rule 42 (New Rule ). — This relates to interpretation of rules. 


Rule 43 (New Rule ). — This is a repealing clause. 

Schedules . — In the fifth schedule, all the heads of Presses have been included 
in the list as in the fifth schedule to the General Provident Fund (Central 
Services) Rules, 1960. 



1462 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19 G 2 /VATSAKIIA 15, 1884 [Part II 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 23 rd April 1962 


S.O. 1312. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 148 of 
the Constitution, the President, after consultation with the Comptroller and Audi- 
tor-General in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts De- 
partment, hereby makes the following rules further to amend the General Provi- 
dent Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960, namely: — 

These rules may be called the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Third Amendment Rules, 1962. 


2. In the General Provident Fluid (Central Services) Rules, 1960, — 


(i) for sub-rule .(1) of rule 15, the following shall be substituted, namely:— 

“(1) Subject to the conditions specified herein withdrawals may be sanctioned 
by the authorities competent to sanction an advance for special reasons under sub- 
rule (2) of rule 12, at any time — 

(I) After the completion of twenty-five years of service (Including broken 
periods of service if any) of a subscriber or within five years before the date of 
his retirement on superannuation, whichever is earlier, from the amount standing 
to his credit in the Fund, for one or more of the following purposes, namely: — 

(a) meeting the cost of higher education, including where necessary, the 

travelling expenses of any child of the subscriber actually dependent 
on him in the following cases, namely: — 

(1) for education outside India for academic, technical professional or 
vocational course beyond the High School stage, and 

(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course in 
India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course of 
study is for not less than three years. 

(b) meeting the expenditure in connection with the marriage of a son or a 

daughter of the subscriber and if he has no daughter, of any other 
female relation dependent on him; 

(c) meeting the expenses in connection with the illness, including where 

necessary the travelling expenses, of the subscriber or any person 
actually dependent on him; and 


(II) After the completion of twenty years of service (including broken periods 
of service, if any) of a subscriber or within ten years before the date of his retire- 
ment on superannuation, whichever is earlier, from the amount standing to his 
credit in the Fund, for one or more of the followifig purposes, namely: 

(a) building or acquiring a suitable house for his residence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of the 
loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt or 
application for withdrawal but not earlier than twelve months of that 
date, or reconstructing, or making additions or alterations to a house 
already owned or acquired by a subscriber; 

(b) purchasing a house site or repaying any 0U {^ f al ^ Ir i£ f °” eceteTof 

of loan exoressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt or 
?he application for the withdrawal but not earlier than twelve months 
of that date; 

(c) for constructing a house on a site purchased utilising the sum withdrawn 

under clause (b); 

assssresi Jafs jkb? a; 

suras «“»- 

[ect to the limit specified in the proviso to sub-rule (D of rule 16. 




Six. 5(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1463 


(ii) to sub-rule (I) of rule 16, tho following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that in the case of a subscriber who has availed himself of an 
advance under the scheme of the Ministry of Works, Housing and 
Supply for the grant of advances for house-building purpose, or has 
been allowed any assistance in this regard from any other Govern- 
ment source, the sum withdrawn under this sub-rule together with the 
amount of advance taken under the aforesaid scheme or the assistance 
taken from any other Government source shall not exceed Rs. 75,1100 
or five years’ pay, whichever is less.” 

(iii) in rule 16A, for the words, brackets and figures “sub-rule (1) of rule 16”, 
the words, brackets and figures “clause (II) of "sub-rule (1) of rule 15” shall be 
substituted. 

[No. F. 4(17)-EV(B)/61.] 
V. K. SUBRAMANIAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 25 th April 1962 

S.O. 1313. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that any of the Officers specified 
below may sign and' execute on . his behalf any instrument connected with the 
reconveyance of property given as security against loans advanced by Rehabilita- 
tion Finance Administration, namely: — 

(1) The Administrator, Rehabilitation Finance Administration Unit of the 

Ministry of Finance; 

(ii) The Offlcer-in-Charge, Rehabilitation Finance Administration Unit, Cal- 

cutta. 

(iii) The Assistant Superintendent of Advances (Law), Rehabilitation Finance 

Administration Unit, New Delhi. 

[No. F. 7(5)-Corp/02.1 
m: R. YARDI, Jt. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

Sea Delhi, the 2$ih April, 1962 

S. 0 . 1314. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 13th April, 1962 


Banking Department 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 


Rs. 

Capital paid up 

5,00^50,000 

.Notes ...... 


. 12,40,59,000 

Reserve Fund 

80^30^50^X50 

Rupee Coin ..... 

• 

. 2,054500 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) 
Fund 

50*00*00^000 

Subsidiary Coin ..... 

. 

. 4 ,i 54 X)o 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund . 

6^30,00,000 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 



Deposits: — 


(a) Internal .... 


* . . 

(a) Government 


( b ) External .... 

. 

* • * 

(l) Central Government .... 

83,26^7,000 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 

. 

89,96,414*0 

(2) Other Governments .... 

3,88,50,000 

Balances held abroad* 


• 6,16,344500 

( 5 ) Banks 

86,38,87,000 

* ‘Loans and Advances to Governments . 

. 

. 119,22323,000 

(e) Others 

1 53,34, 33, coo 

Other Loans and Advances! • 

• 

135,35,584500 

Bills Payable 

27,64,454500 

Investments • • • • » 

. 

. 157,70,01,000 

Other Liabilities 

60^28,854500 

Other Assets ■ 

• 

34,9 1, 5 6 ,ooo 

Rupees . 

555,81,92,000 

Rupees 

« 

■ 555,Si,92,ooo 


•Includes Cash & Short-term Securities. 

•♦Includes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments, 

tThe item ‘Other Loans and Advances’ includes Rs. 14 ,00, 50,00c/- advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X2) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 

Dated, the 18th day of April, 1962, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [PART II 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve 



of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the j 3th da> of April, 1962 
Issue Department 


Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Rs. 


A. Gold Coin and Bullion: — 




(a) Held in India . 

1 1 7=76,03/00 


2161,72,32,000 

(6) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities . 

113,86/7/00 



Totai of A 


231,62/0,000 


B. Rupee Coin 


118,01,45/00 


Government cf India Rupee 
Securities .... 


1812,08,77,000 


Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper 

2161,72,32/100 Total Assets . • - 216/72/2,000 


P. C. Bhattacharyya, 
Governor. 


[No. F. 3(2>BC/62.] 



Src. 3(G)] Tim GA/ETT R OF INDIA : MAY 5. 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 5884 x 4 65 



14 66 THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 27 th April 1962 

S.O, 1315. — In pursuance of clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 19, read 
with clause (b) of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) of section 25 of the State 
Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955), the Central Government, in consultation with 
the Reserve Bank of India, hereby nominates Shri Krishna Kumar Birla, 17, Guru- 
saday Road, Ballygunge, Calcutta-19, as a director of the Central Board of the 
State Bank of India in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri Sachindra 
Chaudhuri, 

[No. F. 8/46/62-SB.] 


Nta DoOn, iht 30t h April i$6i 

S O. 1316 — Statement ef the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 20th April, 1962. 

Banking Department 


Liabilities 


Ra. 

Assets 

R*. 

Capital paid up .... 

• . 

5 / 3 o /»/»0 

Notes ...... 

. . . 21,07,42,000 

Reserve Fund 

• 

8o/30/»/»o 

Rupee Coin 

2^3,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Opera- 
tions) Fund ...... 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

Deposits 1 — 

50*00^0^00 

6^Xsoo,ooo 

Subsidiary Coin .... 

BiBs Purchased and Discounted t — 

(а) Internal 

(б) External 

(e) Government Treasury Bills 

v . 4,03,000 

63,00,44,000 

(0) Government 

(l) Central Government . 

, 

51^5.75/300 

Balances held abroad* 

9,02,65,000 

(2) Other Governments 


6,86,09/300 

••Loans and Advances to Governments 

125,87,49,000 

(b) Banks ..... 

. 

88,51,50/300 

Other Loans and Advances^ 

131,56,16,000 

(c) Others ..... 

. 

156,55,80/300 

Investments ..... 

152,11,24,000 

Bills Payable ..... 
Other Liabflitie* .... 

• * 

31,42,31/300 

62,43,11/300 

Other Assets 

35,12,90,000 

Rupees 


537,84,5S,ooo 

Rupee* 

537.84,56, oco 


♦Includes Cash & Short-term Securities. 


•'♦Includes Temporary Overdraft* to State Governments. 

tThe hem ‘Other Loans and Advances 1 Include* Ra. 12,47,00/200/- advanced to scheduled hanks against usance bills under Section 17 (4) ( c } of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act 

Dated the 25th day of April, 1962. 



•Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 20th day of April, 1962 

Issue Department 

Liabilities Rs. Rs. Assets Rs. Rs. 


Motes held in the 
Department 

Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued 

Total of A 
B Rupee Coin 

Government of IncHa Rupee 

Securities . 

Internal Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial paper 


R anking 


21,07,42,000 

2441,06,00,000 


2162,13,42,000 


A. Gold Coin and Bullion t— 
(a) Held in India 

(6) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 


117,76,03,000 


108,86,07,000 


r 

226,62, TO fOOO 

I 

118,47,50,000 ! 
1317,03,82^100 


Total Liabilities . 


2162,13,42,000 Total Asms . 


2162,13,42,000 


Dated the 25th day of April, 1962. V. C. Bhattacharyya, 

Governor. 

[No. F. 3 (2) -B C/6 2.] j 
A. BAKSI, Tt. Secy. 


T ^58 THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : MAY 5. 1DG2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, I902/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

Insurance 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1962 

S.O. 1317. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 64-G 
of th" Insurance Act, i93«, me Cemrai Government nereby nominates Shri D. 
Hair.rrond Giles of the Alliance Assurance Company Limited, Calcutta, as a 
member of the Executive Committee of the General Insurance Council of the 
insurance Association of India in place of Shri H. D. R, Edwards, resigned. 

[No. F. 51(31)-INS(I)/61.] 
P. GANGULEE, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 

S.O. 1318.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 63 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the povisions of section,' 
9 of the said Act, shall not apply to the Coimbatore Varthaka Vridhl Bank Ltd., 
Coimbatore in respect of the properties held by it at Vcllanaipatti, Coimbatore 
District, Madras, till the 15th September, 1962, and in respect of the properties 
held by it at Rajapuram, Tiruchirapalli District, Madras, till the 15th March, 
1963. 

[No. F. 15(4) -BC/62.]' 
D. N. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Income-tax Establishments 
New Delhi, the 25 th April 1962 

S.O. 1319.— In pursuance of clause (b) of Sub-rule (11) of rule 2 of the Appel- 
late Tribunal Rules, 1946, the Central Government has been pleased to appoint 
Shri J. Pathak, Income-tax Officer, Class I, as Authorised Representative, Income- 
tax Appellate Tribunal Patna, with effect from the forenoon of 9th April, 1962, tO' 
appear, plead and act for any Income-tax authority who is a party to any pro'- 
ceedings before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 72.] 

S O 1319- A. — Consequent on his posting as Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
of Income-tax, Baroda, the powers conferred on Shri S. V. Nerurkar, by the 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) Notification No. 319-Income-tax 
Establishments, dated 24th December I960, are hereby withdrawn. 

[No. 73.] 

P. S. KAICKER, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


New Delhi, the 2 6th April 1962 


SO 1320. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section- 

121 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in partial modification of all pre- 
vious notifications on the subject the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that 
Shri K M S Reddy, a Commissioner of Income-tax, shall perform all the functions 
of Commissioner of Income-tax In respect of such areas or of such persons or 
classes of persons or such Incomes or classes pf incomes or such cases or 
classes of cases as are comprised in the Income-Tax Circles, Wards or Districts 
in the State of Kerala and the Union Territory of Laccadive, Minicoy and Amln- 
dlvl Islands: 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of 
Revenue to any Income-Tax Authority subordinate to him. 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such- 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income-tax autho- 
rity outside his jurisdictional area. 



147° 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


While performing the said functions the said Shri Reddy shall be designated as 
the Commissioner of Income-tax, Kerala with headquarters at Ernakulam. 

This Notification shall take effect from the 31st March, 1962 (afternoon). 

Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to a change in the incum- 
bent of the Commissioner’s post, 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be merely clariflcatory.) 

[No. 16 (F. No. 55/1/62-1T).] 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1962 

S.O. 1321. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sectioh (1) of section 
122 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and in supersession of all previous 
notifications In this regard, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax of the Ranges specified in 
column 1 of the schedule below shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persons and incomes assessed to income-tax or super-tax in the Income-tax Circles, 
Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 thereof:— 

Schedule 


Range 

Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 

1 

2 


Indore 

1. A-Ward- Indore. 

2. B-Ward, Indore. 

3. C-Ward, Indore. 

4. D-Ward, Indore. 

5. E-Ward, Indore. 

6. A-Ward, Ratlam. 

7. B-Ward, Ratlam. 

8. Special Investigation Circle, Indore. 

9. Special Estate Duty-atm-Income-tax Circle, Indore. 

•Gwalior 

1. A-Ward, Gwalior. 

2. B-Ward, Gwalior. 

3. C-Ward, Gwalior. 

4. D-Ward, Gwalior. 

5. A-Ward, Ujjain, 

6. B-Ward, Ujjaln. 

7. C-Ward, Ujjaln. 

8. F-Ward, Indore, 

9. G-Ward, Indore. 

10. H-Ward, Indore. 

11. J-Ward, Indore. 

12. Khandwa. 

Jabalpur 

1. A-Ward, Jabalpur. 

2. B-Ward, Jabalpur, 

3. C-Ward, Jabalpur. 

4. Addl. A-Ward, Jabalpur. 

5. Sagar. 

8. Bllaspur. 

7. A-Ward, Satna. 

8. B-Ward, Satna. 

9. A-Ward, Bhopal. 

10, B-Ward, Bhopal. 

11, Special Investigation Circle, Jabalpur. 

A-Raoge, Nagpur 

1, Special Investigation Circle ‘A’ Nagpur, 

2, Special Investigation Circle, ‘B’ Nagpur. 

3, Salary Circle, Nagpur. 

4, A-Ward, Nagpur, 




Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1384 1471 


5. B-Ward, Nagpur. 

6. C-Ward, Nagpur. 

7. Itarsl. 

8. A-Ward, Raipur. 

9. B-Ward, Raipur. 

10, Addl. B-Ward, Raipur. 

11. Special Estate Duly-cum-Incomc-tax Circle, Nag- 
pur. 


B-Range, Nagpur 

1 . D-Ward, Nagpur, 

2. E-Ward, Nagpur. 

3. F-Ward, Nagpur. 

4. G-Ward, Nagpur. 
5- Rajnandgaon, 

6. Raigarh. 

7. Durg, 

8. Chhindwara. 


Where an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands transferred 
by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out of 
assessments made in that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof and 
pending Immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle, Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, on and from the date of this 
notification, be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Com- 
missioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
Is transferred. 

This notification shall come into force on the 1st day of May 1962, 

Explanatory Note 
New Delhi, the 1st May 1902 

The amendments have become necessary on account of the Rc-organisation of 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioners’ Ranges in the charge of the Commissioner 
of Income-tax Madhya Pradesh, 

(The note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clariflcatory). 

No. 17 (F. No. 50/11/62-IT.) 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 1st May 1962 

8.0. 1322. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 122 of Income-tax Act, 1961 143 of 1961) and in supersession of all its previ- 
ous notifications in this regard, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs 
that the Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income Tax of the Ranges 
specified in column 1 of Schedule below shall perform their functions in respect 
of all persons and incomes assessed to income-tax or super-tax in the Income-tax 
Circles, Wards and Districts specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 
thereof: — 


Schedule 


Range Income-tax Circles, Wards and Districts 

1 2 


C A’ Range, New Delhi 1. Income-tux-ewn-Wcalth Tax Circle I & VII, New Delhi. 

2. Companies Circles, New Delhi except companies circle II, 
New Delhi. 

3. Central Cicle Tfi), V, VI & VII Delhi. 

4 . B-I, B-I(t), B-III & B-XVI Distt., New Delhi. 

5. All Contractors Circles, New Delhi. 

6. Ward No. VIII, Delhi'. 

7. Evacuee Circle, New Delhi. 

8. Salary Circles. Delhi. 

9. All private Salary Circles, New Delhi. 




1472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1 962/VA TSAK.H A 15, 1884 [Part II 


I 

2 

C B’ Range, New Delhi 

•223$’- Income-tax- Cum - Wealth Tax Circles III & IX, New 

Delhi, 

2. Special Circle, New Delhi. 

3. Additional Special Circle-II, New Delhi. 

4. Special Investigation Circles A, B & C, New Delhi, 

5. A-I, A-I(i), A-II, A-III, A-IV & A-IV(I) Districts, New 
Delhi. 

6. All Business Circles, New Delhi. 

7. Central Circle-II, New Delhi. 

8. Ward Nos. VI, 1X(T), IXux), (III;, IX(1V), & 

IX(V), Delhi- 

9. B-II & B-VIII Distts., New Delhi. 

*C’ Range, New Delhi. 

1. I. T.-cutn - Wealth Tax Circle IV and VIII, New Delhi. 

2. Companies Circle-II, New Delhi. 

3. Central Circle? II, III & IV, New Delhi. 

4. Estate Duty-Cuw-I.T. Circle, New Delhi. 

5. B-XIV, B-XV & B-XV(I) Distts., New Delhi. 

6. Foreign Section, Delhi. 

7. Survey Wards Nos. I & II, Delhi. 

8. Ward "Nos. I, I(i), 1(2), II, III, IV & V, Delhi. 

9. Cl, C-I(I), C-II & C-III, Distts., New Delhi. 

‘D’ Range, New Delhi 

. . 1. I. T.-Cum- Wealth Tax Circle V, New Delhi. 

2. B-1X, B-X, B-XI & B-XI(I), B-XII, B-XII(I), 

B-XIIi, B-XIIIfl), Distts., New Delhi. 

3. Wards No. VII(I), VII(2), VI 1(3) and VII(4),’ Delhi. 

4. Central Circle-I, New Delhi. 

C E’ Range, New Delhi 

. . I. I. T.-Cum - Wealth Tax Circle-II, New Delhi. 

2, B-IV & B-IV(l) Distts., New Delhi. 

3- B-XVIII & B-XVIII(I) Distts., New Delhi. 

4. I.T.-Cuw-Wealth Tax Circle VI, New Delhi. 

5. Additional Alwar. 

*F’ Range, New Delhi 

. x. B-V, B-V(I), B-VI, B-VI(x), B-VII, B-VII(x), B-XVII, 
B-XVII(T), B-XVII(2), B-XVII(3) and B-XVIR4) Distts., 
New Delhi. 

2. Alwar 

“A’ Range, Jaipur 

. j. A, Addl. A, B, AJdl. B & C Wards, Jaipur. 

2. Special Investigation Circles A & U, Jaipur. 

3. All Income tax Wards having headquarters at Kotah. 

‘B’ Range Jaipur 

1. Estate Duty-Cum-I. T. Circle, Jaipur. 

2. D, I '(■, F, Ok G. Wards, Jaipur. 

3. Bcawar, 

4. All Income tax Wards having headquarters at Sriganga- 

uager. 

5. EharatpuivA & B Wards, Bharatpur. 

6. Multipurpose Project Circle, Ajmer. 

Jodhpur 

1. All Income-tx Wards, having headquarters at Jodhpur. 
2. All Income-tax Wards having headquarters at Bikaner. 

Udaipur 

1. All Income-tax Wards having headquarters at Udaipur. 

2. A & B Wards, Ajmer. 

3. Bhilwara. 


When an Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands trans-r 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range, appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income-tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle, Ward 
or District or part thereof is transferred shall, on and from the date this 'notifica- 
tion shall take effect, be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant 



.Sec. 3(1 i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15. 1884 


Commissioner of the Range to whom the said Circle, Ward or District or part 
thereof is transferred. 

This notification shall come into force from the 2nd day of May, 1962. 

[No. 18 (F. No. 50| 10162— IT) .] 
D. V. JUNNARKAR, Under Sccy. 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 5th May, 1962. 

S.O. 1323. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 (19 of 1924), the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made In its notification No. 22-Customs 
dated the 2nd February, 1902, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, under the heading “C-Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Shillong”, 
under the sub-heading “Shillong Circle", after the entry “(g) Duba Channel” In 
column 2 against Bholaganj, the following entry shall be Inserted, namely: — 

“(h) DEAR VALLEY". 

[No. 60/F. No, 2/1/62-L.C.I.] 

Land Customs 

New Delhi, the 5th May 1962 

S.O. 1324. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land Cus- 
toms Act, 1924, (19 of 1924), the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendment in its Notification No. 22-Customs dated the 2nd 
February, 1952, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, under the heading “C-Land 
Custom Areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Central Excise and Land 
Customs, West Bengal, Calcutta”, under the sub-heading “Howrah and Calcutta 
Area”, for item 37 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

“37, (a) No. 4 Calcutta Jetties. 

(b) No. 0 Calcutta Jetties. 

The x’iver routes from Calcutta to East Pakistan via 
Namkhana”. 

[No. 4/F. No. 2/4/62-L.C.I.l 
L. S. MARTHANDAM, Under Socy. 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE: WEST BENGAL: CALCUTTA 

Central Excises 
Calcutta, the 3rd April 1962 

S.O. 132". — In exercise of the powers under Rule 233 of the Central Excise Rules, 
1944, thi uodcj'F’gned hereby directs that all manufacturers of Cosmetics and Toilet 
Preparations Including those whose products are exempt from the payment of 
Central Excise Duty under the provisions of the Government of India, Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue) Notification No. 107/01-CE dated 2'0th April 1961 
shall affix a label to each of their products showing the following particulars. 

1. The name of the manufacturer. 

2. The number of the Central Excise Licence in form L. 4. 

3. The name of the product together with the corresponding name under the 

relevant sub item of item 14F of the 1st Schedule to the Central Excise 
Salt Act, 1944; and 

4. The nett weight of the product. 

A specimen copy of each type of label should be lodged with the Superintendent 
of Central Excise concerned before it is brought into use and affixed to the products, 

TNo. 2.] 

Sd./- Illegible, 
for Collector, Central Excise, 

Calcutta. 



1474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , I 9 G 2 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1884 [Part It 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE' PATNA 
BHAGALPURi DIVISION 

NOTICES 

Patna the 24th February, 1962 


To 


Sri Kallpado Das, s/o Sri Chitopado Das, 

House of Shri Darendra Chandra Ghosh, 

S/ o Late Shri Manmohan Ghosh 
1/63, Rajendra Prasad Colony, 

Prince Anwar Ghosh Road, Calcutta-33. 

S.O. 1326. — Whereas a notice to show cause why action to adjudge confiscation 
and penalty should not be taken against you and the goods described below, under 
the provisions of Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 read with section 3(2) 
of the Import and Export Control Act, 1947 is pending in this office for want of 
service on you being returned by the Postal Authority of Calcutta undelivered with 
the remarks, “not know, left Calcutta etc.”. 


SI. 

Date & place where 

Bv whom seized 

Description of goods 

Section & Rules con- 

No. 

seized 


travened. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 


i 10-9-196T From a 3rd 1, Sri Nirmal Singh Torch light bulbs 
class compartment of Sub-Inspector of 40,075 in number 
330 -Dn. train Central Excise, & made in Hong Kong 

Land Customs, Bar- & Shanghai, 
harwa. 

2. Sri Umashankar, 

Inspector of Cen- 
tral Excise & Land 
Customs,Calcutta. 


Section 5 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 
Section T9 of the 
Sea Customs Act, 
1878 read with Sec. 
3 of the Import 
and F.xport (Con- 
trol) Act, 1947. 


Now, therefore, you are hereby' Informed that you should arrange to take delivery 
of the said notice on any working day within 15 days from the date of publication 
of the notice, failing which the case will be decided ex-parte. 

[No. VIII (10) 12/01.] 


Patna , the 9th March, 1902 

S O. 1327. — Whereas from the possession of one who gave out his name and 
address as Sri Abdul Barik s/o Tayabali, a/o Sukur Ali, No. 3 Fulbagan Calcutta 
the goods as mentioned in the undermentioned table were seized in contravention 
of Rules and Notifications as mentioned against each: 


SI. Date & place By whom 
No. of seizure detected 
12 3 


t 19-9-61 330 Sub-Ins- 
Dn. train pcctor,C.E., 
&L.C., Bar- 
har wa.- 


Description of goods 

4 


(a) Playing cards (bonus) 

made in U.S.A (seven 
packets containing 1 2 
prices each & one packet 
containing eleven pieces. 

(b) Nickled steel coated 
hooks, made in Germany 
Two Pkt. containing 12 
small pkts, in each and 
one containing io small 
pkts. each small pkts. 
containing twelve hooks. 


Quantity Rules contravened 
5 6 


8 packets. Section5(3) of L.C. 

Act 1924 read with 
3 „ Sec. 167(8) of the 

Sea Customs Act, 
1878 Sec. 7(1) (c) 

of L.C. Act, 1924 
read with Sec 167(8) 
of the L.C. Act 1878 
for contravention of 
Sec. 5 of the L.C. 
Act 1924 Sec. 3(1) 
of the I & E Control 



Sr.c, 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1475 


I 1 3 


4 


5 


6 


(c) Eclypse hack saw blades- 
all hard. Made in Englandj 
James New & Co. She- 
ffield Ltd., Ten big pack- 
ketr, total nine 20 packe • 
containing six dozens in 
each and one packet con- 
taining five dozens only. 
id) Grip tight. Made in 
England. 

(e) Magic eye bulbs. Mi- 
niature lamps. 

Made in Hongkong, 

(J) C.K.2 torch bulbs. 

Made in Hongkong. 
is) Fohan Lamps, 

Made in Sanghai, China. 


Act 1947 and Sec. 
19 of the S.C.Act 
1878. 


2100 

3500 

17000 

I2,8CO 


Now, therefore, the so called person has failed to show cause on being called 
upon to do so by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise, Bhagaipur which was 
received back undelivered from the Postal Department with the remarks "not 
known” and his case being adjudged cx-parte. when adjudication order was sent by 
post, the same was also received back undelivered from the Postal Department with 
tne same very remarks "not known”. 

If such a person fails to take delivery of the said adjudication order from this 
office within 10 days from the date of publication in the Gazette of India, action 
will be taken as ordered in the Adjudication order No. 11-L.C./61 dated 5th Decem- 
ber, 1961. 

[No. VIII(IO) / 14 / 61,1 
H. P. SEN GUPTA, Asstt. Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Bombay, the 24 th April, 1962 

S.O. 1328.— In exercise of the powers conferred on me under clause 3 of the 
Cotton Control Order, 1955, I hereby make the following further amendment in 
tho Textile Commissioner’s Notification No. S.O. 2273, dated 1st September, 1961, 
namely: 

In the said notification, in note II appended to Schedule ‘A’ for items (vli), 
(vlii) and (xiv), the following shall be substituted, namely: 


Column l Column 3 


“ (tut) P.,A. 216F. P./A.H-14 R.G. or S.G. P/A- 216 F R. G. or S.G. as the case may be 

of column (i) 

(Dili) p./A. L.S.S. R.G. or S.G. . . P/A 320 R.G. or S.G. as the case may be 

of column (i) 

(xiv) P./A. 320F R.G. or S.G. . . . P/A 320F R.G. cr S.G. the case may be of 

column (i) ” 


(Sd.) W. R. Natu, 

Textile Commissioner, 


[No. 24(2)~Tex(A)/61.] 
A. B, DATAR, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1962 

S.O. 1329/IDRA/6/12.— In exorcise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the following persons to be members of the Deve- 
lopment Council established by the Order of th'e Government of India m the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. S.O. 619. dated the 16th March, 




^70 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5. JHG2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


1962 for the scheduled Industries engaged In the manufacture or production of 
textiles made of Wool, including Woollen Yarn and Hosiery, till the 16th March, 
1964 and directs that the following amendment shall be made in the said Order, 
namely: — 

In the said Order, after entry No. 19 relating to Shrl Kanjibhai Khodidas. 
the following entries shall be inserted, namely;-— 

20. Shri Krishna Khbpkar, Salubai Nivas, Utalsar. Thana (Maharashtra). 

21. Shrl J. K. Jayawant, Secretary, Rashtrlya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, 25, 

Government Gate Road. Parcl, Bombay-12. 

[No. l(3)L.Pr./62,] 


New Delhi, the 30th April, 1962 

S.O. 1330. — IDRA/6/18. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of 
the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) read with 
Rules 4 and 5 of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central 
Government hereby appoints the following persons to be members of the Develop- 
ment Councils for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or pro- 
duction of Leather and Leather Goods for a period of two years with effect from 
the date of this Order, on the expiry of the term of office of the members 
appointed under the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
Order No, S.O. 129, dated the 12th January, I960, as amended from time to time; — 

Chairman 

1. Shri Sanjoy Sen, Director, National Tannery Co, Ltd., Mercantile Build- 

ing, Lail Bazar, Calcutta-1, 

2. Shri M, L. Khaitan, M/s. Bata Shoe Co. Ltd,, 30, Theatre Road, Calcutta. 

3, Shrl S. P. Pandit, Director, M/s, Western India Tanneries Ltd., Dharavi, 

Bombay-17, 

4, Shrl P. R. Sondhi, M/s, Kapurthala Northern India Tanneries Ltd., 

Kapurthala. 

5. Shri K. S, Smith, General Manager, British India Corporation Ltd., 

Cooper Allen Branch, Kanpur, 

6, Shri Nazir Hussain, Proprietor, M/s, Nazir Hussain & Co,, 11, Perambur 

High Road, Madras. 

7, Shrl A. Nagappa Chettlar, M/s. India leather Corporation (Private) Ltd., 

Post Box No. 1516, Madras. 

8. Shrl Mohammad Yaqub, M/s. Indian National Tannery (Private) Ltd., 

Jajmau Road, Kanpur, 

0. Shri S. Nazar Mohamed, M/s, Pioneer Tanneries & Glue Works (P) 
Ltd., Kanpur. 

10. Shri R. B. Dodd, Managing Director, M/s. Gordon Woodroffe & Co, 

(Madras) Pt. Ltd., 1/21, North Beach Road, George Town, Madras-1. 

11. Shri A. N. Varma, President, Agra Shoe Manufacturers’ Association, 1244, 

Pili Kothi, Shohganj, Agra. 

12. Dr. Y. Nayudamma, Director, Central Leather Research Institute, Adyar 

Madras. 

13. Shri N. P. Chatterji, Agricultural Marketing Adviser, Directorate of 

Marketing & Inspection, New SectC Building, Nagpur. 

14. Shrl G. R. Valunjkar, Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Gosewa 

Charmalaya, Gopuri, Wardha. 

15. Shri R. K. Agarwal, Development Officer (Leather), Government of 

Uttar Pradesh, Kanpur. 

16. Shri K, B. Potnls, 25, Bell Building, 1st Floor, Sir Pherozshah Mehta 

Road, Bombay-1. 

17. Shri B. C, Thlmmarayappa, Leather Expert, Department of Rural Indus- 

trialisation, Government Old Soap Factory Building, Bangalore. 

18. Shrl P, N, Rajabhoj, President, Bharat Dalit Sevak Sangh, 207,’ Ghorpade 

Peth, Poona-2, 



Vc. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKTIA 15, 1884 


1477 


19. Shn N. R. M. Swamy, Railway Station Road, Ranipet (N.A. Distt.). 

20. Shri T. Jlyyar Das, Ongole, Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh. 

21. Shri Nathuri Ram, Chalbasa, Singhbhum (Bihar). 

'22, Shri Amrltlal Jadav, C-Scheme, Jaipur (Rajasthan). 

23. Shri A. C. Nanda, General Secretary, Delhi State Committee 0 f A.I.T.U.C., 

Gaushala Gate, Double Phatak Road, Kishcnganj, Delhi. 

24. Shri Prabhakar Tripathi, Working President, Kanpur Chamra Mill 

Karamchari Sangh, 11/365, Souterganj, Kanpur. 

29, Shri S. Venkataraman, National Council of Applied Economic Research 
Perisila Bhavan, 11, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi-1, 

26. Shri S. G. Desai, Secretary, M/s. Beltex (P) Ltd., Ahmedabad. 

[No. 4(37)-L.Pr./6L] 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 30 th April, 1962 

S.O. 1331. — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. S.O. 1004 
dated the 2Rth April, 1961 (as amended from tfme to time) published in Part II 
-Section 3 sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India dated the 6th May: 

6. Shri M.K. Kale, Owners.” 

M'S Lakshin iratan Engg. Works, No. I Industrial Area, Faridabad. 

6. Shri M.K. Kale Owners” 

M's Lakill.niratan Engg. Works Ltd., Fergusen Road, Lower Parel, 
Bombay-1 3 . 

[No. l(12)L.Pr./60.] 
J. S. BAKHSHI, Under Secy. 


(Depaxtynent of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the 30th April 1062 

S.O. 1332. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
‘(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment, hereby appoints Shri Upendranath Rajkhowa, Deputy Registrar of the 
High Court Assam to be the cx-offlcio Official Liquidator attached to that Court 
with effect from the afternoon of 10th April, 1962, until further orders vice Shri 
D. N. Chaudliury. 

P. B, SAHARYA, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 5th April 1962 

S.O. 1333.— It Is hereby notified, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Clause 9 of the Import (Control) Order, 1955 the Govt, of India, in the Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel two Import Licences No. A 719751/60 
AU/CCI/D dt. 29th March 1961 for import of Selenium for Rs. 1030/- and No. 
A 7 19752/ 60 /AU/CCI/D dt. 29th March 1961 for Import of Antimony Oxide, 
Borax, Cryslite Natural, Tin Oxide and Cobalt Oxide for Rs, 8522/- from S.C.A. 
-except Union of S. Africa and South of West Africa, granted by the Deputy Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, Central Licensing Area, New Delhi to M/s. 
Kashmir Enamels Industrial Estate, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
Central Licensing Area, New Delhi within ten days of the date of issue of this 
Notice by the said M/s. Kashmir Enamels Industrial Estate, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu 
«r any bank or any other party, who may be interested in it. 


“Fir. 

“Read. 



1478 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5. I962/VAISAKHA 15, 1881 [pAJtT 11 


In view of what is stated above M/s. Kashmir Enamels, Industrial Estate, 
Gandhi Nagar, Jammu or any bank, or any other party, who may be interested 
in the said licence No. A 719751/ AU/CCI/D dt. 29th March 1961 St No. A 719752/ 
CO/AU/CCI/ dt. 29th March 1991 are hereby directed not to enter into any com- 
mitments against the said licences and return the same immediately to the Deputy* 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Central Licensing Area, datapath 
Barracks ‘B’ New Delhi. 


[No. DCCI/I(CLA)/217/91.J 
RAM MURTI SHARMA, 

Dy, Chief Controller. 


MINISTRY OF MINES AND FUEL 

New Delhi, the 24 th April 1962 

S.O. 1334. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines & Fuel) S.O. 2468, dated 
the 6th October, 1960, under sub-section (1) of Section 7 of the Coal Bearing 
Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Govern- 
ment gave notice of its intention to acquire the lands in the locality specified in 
the Schedule appended to that notification; 

And whereas no objection has been made to the acquisition of the land afore- 
said; 

And whereas the Central Government after consulting the Government of 
Orissa is satisfied that the land measuring 247*75 acres described in the Schedule 
appended hereto should be acquired, 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 9 of the s-iid Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the land' 
measuring 247*75 acres described in the said Schedule are hereby acquired. 

The plan of tb e areas covered, by this notification may he inspected in the 
office of the Collector, Dhenkanal (Orissa) or in the office of the Coal Controller, 
1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal Develop- 
ment Corporation Ltd., (Revenue Section), Darbhanga House, Ranchi. 

Schedule 

Drag No. Rev./162/fii 

(North Balanda Block) — — 

(showing lands acquired) 


ALL RIGHTS 


(Jaganath pore Colliery) 
SUB-BLOCK—* A ’ 


SI. 

No. 

Name of Village 

Thana 

Village or District. 
Survey No. 

Area in acres 

Remarks 

I. 

Balanda 

Colliery 

P.S. 

98 Dhenkanal 

213.50 

acres 

Part. 




Total area 

213*50 

acres 


approximately 


Plot Not. acquired in vill ige B ilanda : — 

26 to ?3, 54 (P), 55(B), 64(B), 65(F), 66(F), 67CP), 68(F), 70(F), 76(F), 77, 78(F), 79(F), 80, 
81 to 133, 135 to 147, 149 to 192, 193(F), 194 to 216, 223(F), 224(F), 226(F), 534(P),535 to 75 1, 763 to 
940, 952 to 975, 977 to 981, 995 to 1142, 1143(F), 1144(F), 1146, 1147(F), 1148(F), 1324(F), 1332 
(P), 1333(F), 1334(F), 1331(F), 1 347(P), 134* (Ph 1381, 1382, 1384 to 1458, 1459 (P), 1479(F), I5K> 
to 1576, 1577(F), 1578(F), 1579 to T584, 1585(1*', I586(P), 1587(F), 1588, 1589(F), 1590 to 1596, 
1 597(F), 1598(F), 159., (P), 1600, 1601(F), 1602(F), 1605(F), i6o7(P), i6o8(P),;i6o9 to 1713, 1714(F) 



1715(F), 1716 to 1789, 1790(F), 1804(1*), 1805, 1806, 1807(F), 1808(F), i8oo(P), 1810 to 1812, 
1813(F), 1814, 1815,' 1816(F), I826CP), 1831(F), i 832(P), 1833 to 18460*1, 1847O*), 18500*), 
1851(F), 1852 to 1865, i866(P), 1867(F)., 1809(F), 1900(F), T901 to 1907, 1908(F), 1922(F), 1932(F), 
1933(F), 1930(F), 2214(F), 2491O*), 2J02(P), 2493(F), ?494 0 *), 2495 to 2505, 2506(F), 2567 to 
2511, 2512(F), 2513 to 25T9, 2595(F), 2880, 2894CP), 2897, 2866, 2881, 2915, 2917 (P), 2919, 
2905(P), 2946, 2948, 2947, 2956(F), 1958, 2853, 2995, 2934, 2935, 2907, 2923, 2990, 29B8, 2989, 
299 1, 2987, 2994, 2995, 3013 , 30io, 3018, 3024, and 29 n (P). 

Boundary description : — 

A-B line passes through plot Nos, 2956, 2941 , 54, 55, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70, 76, 78, 79, 193, 
226, 224, 223, 534 , 1148, 1147 , 1144 , 1143 , 1324, 1332 , 133 3 , 1334 , 1335 , 1347 , 1348 , 1939 . 
1932, 1933, 1922, 1577, 1578, 1585, 1586, 1587, 1589, 1597, 1598, 1599, 1601, 1602, 1605, 
1608, 1607, 1714, 1715, 2917, 1790, 1908, and 2214. 

B-C lines passes through plot Nosr— 2214, 1908, 1790, 1479, 2906, 1K13, 1816, 1809, 1808, 1807, 
1804, 1826, 1832, 1831, 1847, 1850, 1851, 1R67, 1866, 1899, 1900, 2491, 2492, 2494, 2493, 
2506, 2595, 2512 and 2894 

C*A line passes along the part northern Boundary of the areas, acquired by N.C.D.C. in South 
Balanda. 

ALL RIGHTS 


SI. 

(No. 

Name of village 

Thana 

Village or 
Survey 
No. 

District 

Area in 
acre 

Remarks 

I. 

Balanda 

Colliery 

98 

Dhenkanal 

24-63 

Part. 



P.S. 





2. 

Nakhatrapur . 

Do. 

83 

Do. 

962 

Part. 






Totd area 34-25 

acres 






(Approximately) 

Plot 

Nos. acquired in 

village Balanda 






1 to 16, 230 (P), 264(F), 2895, 2928, 2929, 2955, 3009, and 3014. 

Biol Nos. acquired in village Nakhatrapur. 

iii(P), H2(P), 113, 114, rt5(P), 1 2 1 (P), I22(P), I26(P), I27(P), 128(F), and i4o(P). 
Boundary Description. 

-D-Lline passes through plot Nos, ill, 112, 115, 121, 122, 126, 127, 128, 140, in village 

Nokhtrapur and plot Nos. 264, 230 in village Balanda. 

£-F line passes partly along the Cimmon boundary of the areas, acquired by N.C.D.C. in South 
Bajanda and partly along the northern boundary of village Bharatpur. 

F-D line passes along the Western Boundary of village Nakhatrapur. 

[Ca-2i)(4)/6o]. 

F. S. KRISHNAN, Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 25 th April, 1902 . 

S.O. 1335 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul- 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 1 1 of 1937 ) the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following rules to amend further the Hides Grading and 
Marking Rules, 1937 , the same having been previously published as required by 
the said section. 

1 . These rules may be called the Hides Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1962 . 






n 


1 1 . Mi . 5, . 


/VAISAKflA IjS, 1884 [Paht I 


2. In Rule 2 of the Hides Grading and Marking Rules, 1937 (hereinafter 
referred to as the said rules), for the word “Kids”, the words “Kips” shall be-' 
substituted. 

3. In Rules 4 and 5 of the said rules, for the figures and marks “1” wherever 
they occur, the figures and letters “6 mm” shall be substituted. 

4. In Schedule I to the said rules, — 

(a) in the heading, for the word 'Kids’, the word ‘Kips’ shall be substi- 

tuted; 

(b) in column 6 of the table against Grade ‘A’, for the figure and word: 

“4 inches”, the figures and letters “102 mm” shall be substituted; 

(c) in column 4 of the table against Grade 'B ! , for the figure and word 

"2 inches”, the figures and letters "51 mm” shall be substituted; 

(d) in column 9 of the table against all the three Grades for the words and 

figure “beyond 4 inches”, the words and figures "beyond 102 mm”" 
shall be substituted; 

(e) in column 11 of the table, for the existing figures and words "60 lb. 

and over”, “40 to 60 lb”, “25 to 40 lb” and "under 25 lb,”, the figures 
and words "27 Kg. and over” , "18 to 27 Kg”, “11 to 18 Kg” and 
“under llKg’ r shall respectively be substituted; 

(f) in column 12, for the word ‘Kids’ occurring In the heading the word* 

"Kips”, and for the figures and words ”28 lbs. and over”, “18 to 28 lb.”, 
“8 to 18 lb,” and “under 8 lb.”, the figures and words “13 Kg. and 
over”, “8 to 13 Kg,”, “4 to 8 Kg.” and "under 4 Kg.” shall respectively 
be substituted; 

(g) in the footnote at the end of the table, against Mark t, for the figures 

and letters "12 lb.” occurring in two places, the figure and letters 
“5 Kg.” shall be substituted; and 

(h) in the foot note at the end of the table, against Mark §, for the words 

“two inches”, the figures and letters "51 mm” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. 17-1/62-AM.] 
V, S. NIGAM, Under Fecy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

New Delhi, the 25 th April 1962 

S.O, 1336. — Under Section 4 of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (14 of 1923), 
the Central Government are pleased to appoint the following persons to be 
members of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, Bombay, for the period 
mentioned against each: — 


S. No. Name 

Part of 

Section 4. 

Period upto 

i. Shri G.E. Aperghis, 

Rallis India Ltd., Bombay. 

4(iv) 

3 

2. Shai S.C. Nawn, 

Bengal Fine Spinning and 

Weaving Mills Ltd., Calcutta, 

4tw) 

31-3-1965 

3 Shri Dayaljibhai Govindbhai ”atrl, 
Delad, Taiuka Oplad, District Surat. 

4(viii) 

31-3-65 

4. Shri M. Mallaraj Urs, 

Director of Agriculture, Mysore. 

4(ix) 

31-3-1965 


[Nq. 1-4/02-Com.rv.) 




sec. S(Ji>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1 982/ VAIvA X H A 15, 1884 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1962 

S.O. 1337. — The following draft of certain rules luriht-r to amend the Indian 
Central Oilseeds Committee Provident Fund Rules, 1961, which the Central 
Government proposes to make, in exercise o the powers conferred by section 17 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (9 of 1946), is published, ' as required 
by sub-section (1) of the said section, for the information of all persons likely to 
be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 31st May, IE 62. 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Provident 
Fund (Second Amendment) Rules, 1962. 

2 In the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee Provident Fund Rules, 1961 rule 
10 shall be re-numbered as sub-rule (1) thereof and after sub-rule (1), as so 
renumbered, the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(2). In the case of a subscriber admitted to the benefits of the fund with 
retrospective effect under sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (3) of rule 8, he 
shall be allowed to pay the amount of subscription due in such 
monthly instalments not exceeding twelve as he may elect.” 

[No. 10-14 /60-Com.II.] 
SANTOKH SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 28 th April 1962 

S.O. 1338. — Whereas, the Indian Nursing Council have elected Miss M. Korah, 
Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi, to be a member of the Council 
under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Nursing Council Act 
1947 (48 of 1947) nice Mrs. A, P. Chandy, Superintendent, Princess Niloufer Train- 
ing School for Health Visitors, Hyderabad; 

And, whereas, the Central Government have nominated Miss M. Craig, Nursing 
Superintendent, Christian Medical College Hospital, Ludhiana as a member of the 
Council under clause (n) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act vice Miss M. 
Korah, Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the said Act the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Health No. F, 27-57 /57-MII(B) dated 
the 1st December, 1958, namely: — 

In the said notification, 

(i) under the heading "Elected under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 

3”, for the existing entry, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely : 

“Miss M. Korah, Superintendent, Lady Reading Health School, Delhi;” 

(ii) under the heading “Nominated under" clause (n) of sub-section (1) of 

section 3”, for the existing entry 2, the following entry shall be substi- 
tuted namely: — 

"2 Miss M. Craig, Nursing Superintendent Christian Medical College, 
Ludhiana.” 

[No. F, 27-9/62-MII.l 
R, MURTHI, Under Secy. 




1482 THE gazette OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/ VAIS AKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL, AFFAIRS 

corrigendum 

Archaeology 

New Delhi, the 19th April 1962 

S.O. 1339. — -In the schedule to the notification published as S.O. 646 on page 582 
in Part II Section 3111) of the Gazette of India dated 3rd March, 1962, the following 
correction is notified: — 

In the last line of column 8 for the figure ‘83/2’ read ‘82/2’. 

[No. F. 4-2/62-C.l.] 

S. J. NARSIAN, 
Assistant Educational Adviser, 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board 1 
CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 28th April 1962 

S.O. 1340. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Railways (Railway Board) No. F(X)II-61/TX-19/12 dated the 2nd April 1982, 
against III Class under the caption child between 3 & 12 years of age — short 
distance passengers (16-160 miles — 25-242 kilometres), for the figures "0.113", 
read “0.13”. 

[No. F(X) 11-61 /TX-19/ 12.] 
P. C. MATHEW, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 


New Delhi, the 24 th April 1902 

S.O. 1341. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of the 
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1057, the 
President hereby directs that the post of Manager, Government of India Publi- 
cation Branch, Delhi, shall be re-classified as Central Service Class I with 
effect from the 1st July, 1959. 

[No. 4/31/61-S&PL] 
D. P. KARNIK, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 21st April 1962 

S.O. 1342. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred hv Sub-Section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appolntg Shrl G. P. Mathur as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date h e took charge of his 
office, 

[No, 8/135/ARG/61.] 
KANWAR BAHADUR, 
Settlement Commissioner (A) 
& Ex-Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 


New Delhi, the 26 th April 1962 

8.0. 1343. — Whereas th- Central Government Is of opinion that it is necessary to 
acquire the evacuee properties in the state of Delhi specified in the Schedule below 
for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation 
of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons. 




Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAK.HA 15, 1881 


Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of Displaced 
Pergons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 1954), it is notified that 
the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires the said 
evacuee properties (Specified in the Schedule below): — 

The Schedule 


S. Particulars of evacuee Name of the town Name of evacuee 

No. property and locality in which 

the evacuee property 
is situated. 


t VII 1109 1517& Gali AkhwanjiFarash Shri Mohd. Ahmed. 
1548-50 Khana, Delhi. S/o Alimuddin. 

2 IX'436(old)74o(new) Jama Mas jid, Delhi Nawab Ghaus Mohd. 


with parentage of 
evacuee. 


[No. 13(2)Comp.&Prop/61.] 

S.O. 1344.- — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary to 
acquire the evacuee properties in the state of Delhi specified in the Schedule below 
for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation 
of displaced persons, including payment of - compensation to such persons. 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of Displaced 
Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 1954), It is notified that 
the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires the said 
evacuee properties (Specified in the Schedule below): — 

The Schedule 

URBAN AREA OF VILLAGE AZADPUR 


S. Particulars of property Area Name of evacuee with the rights in the 

No. — — property. 

KhataNo. KhasraNo. Bigha Bis. 


1 12 lot 


429/ 1 &3 
21 

56 , 
373'i05 

95 Min. 

327 Min, 

328 
299 1 

407/133 

145 , 
408/133 

143 


16 14 Shri Aziz-ud-Din s'o Mst. Ruste(lshare) 

12 17 & Shri Modh. Ramzan & Mohd. Rafi s/o 

3 o Shri Ghiaa Khan(J share). Owners. 

1 4 

o 6 

0 9 

6 1 

5 3 

23 17 

z o 

4 1 

1 1 


Total: 76 13 


[No. 13(2)Comp.&Prop.J 

8.0. 1345. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary to 
acquire the evacuee properties in tlje state of U.P. specified in the Schedule below 
for a public purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation 
of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons. 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of Displaced 
Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, (44 of 1954), it Is notified that 
the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires the said 
evacuee properties (Specified in the Schedule below) : — 

Schedule 

List of Urban Property for acquisition 


S. Particulars of the property. Locality Name of the evacuee, 

No. 


1 Clover & Kachcr Lodge Mussorie Mussorie Shri Khurshed Berry 


[No. 1( 1217)58/ Comp. III/Prop.] 
M. J. SRIVASTAVA, Under Secy. 


X484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5 , 1962 /VAISAKHA 15, 1881 


[Part 


MINISTRY OF LAEOUR & EMPLOYMENT 


New Delhi, the 16th April, 1962 

1 f) 4 ^ '? : l4 13 nf 6 '7o4fl PU ,^ Ua pf e ■ °L S % Ct }° n 36 the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Revised Estimates tor the year 1981-62, and the Budget 
Estimates for the year 1682-66, of the Employees’ State Insurance C A-poration 6 aa 
fion 17 ad ° Pted by the sald c ° P° ration ar e hereby published for general inf ,mia- 


EMPLOYEES' STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 

REVISED ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1961-62 
and 

BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1962-63 

At the meetings held on the 8th and 9th March, 1961, the Standing Committee 
and the Corporation approved the Budget Estimates of the probable receipts and 
expenditure of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation lor the financial year 
1961-62. These were approved by the Central Government without any change 
vide the letter from the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. 4(3) /61-HI, 
dated 23rd March, 1961. 

2. The Budget Estimates approved by the Central Government covered: 

(i) measures needed for the running of the Scheme in various centres 
where it had already been implemented; and 

(il) measures needed for the extension of the Scheme to additional areas. 


3. When the Budget Estimates for 1961-62, were framed, it was anticipated that 
(i) the Scheme would be extended to new areas and (ii) medical care would 
be extended to the families of the insured persons as per programme detailed in 
Statement ‘B’ attached, and from the dates shown against each item in columns 
5, and 7, thereof. However, due to administrative and other difficulties in making 
adequate medical arrangements by the State Governments concerned, the pro- 
gramme of implementation and extension of medical care to the families had to 
be modified. The Scheme was actually extended to some of the areas from 
dates later than those originally planned as per details shown in column 6 of the 
Statement ’B’. As regards the areas where the Scheme has not so far been 
implemented, the revised dates of implementation, as now anticipated, have been 
stated against each item in appropriate columns of the above Statement. The 
dates from which the medical care has been extended or is likely to be extended 
to families have been similarly indicated. 


4. As a result of further discussions and correspondence with the various 
State Governments, It is now anticipated that the Scheme will be implemented 
in new areas in 1961-62, and 1982-63, from the dates as shown in Appendix I. 
For the sake of convenience, the places where the Scheme har already been 
Implemented in the past, with the dates of implementation, have also been 
embodied in this Appendix. The number of employees already covered or pro- 
posed to be covered has also been revised in the light of the latest information 
available and incorporated in Appendix I, The dates from which the medical 
care has been extended or is likely to be extended to the families of the insured 
persons have also been indicated against each item in this Appendix. 


6 The Revised Estimates for 1961-82, and the Budget Estimates for 1962-63, 
have been prepared in the light of the revised programme of implementation 
The figures of actual expenditure during the thiee financial Yeara^ l05ff-B5i, to 
1980-61, the sanctioned budget estimates for the current year 1961-62, and the 
actuals for the first eight months of the current year 1961-62, have also been 
exhibited in the relevant columns of the tabulated Budget statement A . These 
are submitted for consideration and approval. 

6. The Statement 'A’ depicts in its column 9 the figures of Revised Estimates 
1961-62, and in column 10, the figures of Budget Estimates 1962-63. 

7 (a) Brief explanations for the more important items under the various 
heads are furnished in the following paragraphs. The Income and Expenditure 
Account for the year ending 31st March, 1962, together with the Balance Sheet as 
on that date and the Income and Expenditure Account for the year ending 31st 



Sec. J(li)] GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1962 [V A f S A K.HA IS, 1884 85,- 


March, 1963, together with the Balance Sheet as on that date have been cast . 
based on the figures of incomings an:l outgoings as anticipated in the Revised 
Estimates 196 1-62, and the Budget Estimates 1962-63, respectively. These are 
enclosed for facility of perusal. In addition, the following statements are append- 
ed. 


ACTUALS 

(1) Statement showing the income and expenditure 

regionwise for the year 1958-69. 

(2) Statement showing the income and expenditure 

regionwise for the year 1959-60. 

(3) Statement showing the income and expenditure 

regionwise for the year 1960-61. 


BUDGET. 


Appendix II. 


Appendix III. 


Appendix IV. 


(4) Statement showing the anticipated income and 

expenditure regionwise for the year 1961-62. Appendix V. 

(6) Statement showing the budgeted income and 

expenditure regionwise for the year 1962-63. Appendix VI 

(b) The transactions shown under the heading “Headquarter" in the above 
statements include expenditure on certain centralised items incurred in respect 
of Regional and Local Offices also, e.g., contributions to the Provident Fund of 
the employees of the Corporation, leave and pension contributions payable in 
respect of Government servants on deputation to the Corporation, publicity 
stationery and forms, expenditure on contribution stamps, and audit fees etc' 
etc. 


8. Under Section 73 -A, of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, the Central 
Government had issued a notification m December, 1966, conveying their inten- 
tion to raise the lates of the Employers’ Special Contribution in both the imple- 
mented and non-implemented areas from 1\ per cent to, 3J per cent, of the- 
total wage bill and f per cent to I4 per cent, of the total wage bill respectively. 
The notification in regard to the actual increase in rates applicable has not how- 
ever, been issued so far. The Corporation at its meeting held on 9th March, 
1961, examined the proposals and appointed a sub-committee to go into greater 
details of the question and to submit its recommendations to the Corporation for 
taking a final decision in the matter. Tire sub-committee held its meetings in. 
April, and October, 1961, and have recommended that the rate of Employers’ 
Special Contribution in implemented ar j as should be increased from 1J per cent, 
to 21 per cent of the total wage bill with effect from 1st April, 1962. It has not 
recommended any increase in the non-implemented areas. The recommendations 
are applicable only to the year 1962-63, and a periodical review has been sug- 
gested. The increase in rates is yet to be considered and finally .approved by the 
Corporation and the Central Government. Pending such approval, the receipts 
on account of Employers’ Special Contribution have been estimated on the basis 
of the existing rates, viz., 11 per cent, of the total wage bill in the implemented 
areas and at + per cent, of the total wage bill in non-implemented areas. 

9. The provision under the head “A-Medlcal Benefits” which is intended to- 
cover the Corporation’s share of the total expenditure on medical arrangements 
initially incurred by the Stato Governments concerned has been made at the 
agreed rate of 7 /8th of the total expenditure from the date from which medical 
rare is extended to the families of the insured persons and at the agreed rate of 
3 /4th of the total expenditure where no such extension has taken place. 

REVISED ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1961-62 
RECEIPTS 

10. The total amount of ordinary revenue for the current year 1901-62, is now- 
estimated to be Rs, 10,14,24,000, as against Rs. 10,02,78,000, assumed in the budget. 



An increase of revenues under Employers’ Special Contribution (about Rs. 17 
lacs) and fall in revenues under Employees’ Contribution (about Rs. 72 lacs) is 
now anticipated in the current year as eompa. ed to the original anticipations. 
The increase m repeipts of Employers' Special Contribution is mainly due to a 
general rise in the wage level of the insured employees and to additional 
factories coming mto the Scheme in areas previously covered, while the decrease 
in Employees’ Contribution is due to the non-implementation or delayed imple- 
mentation of the Scheme in new a.eas. 

Expenditure 


11. The total amount of expenditure on revenue account in the cutrent year 
1961-62, is now estimated to be Rs, 8,52,26,000, against Rs, 10,32,16,000, originally 
assumed in the budget. The fall in ''expenditure oi Rs. 179-80 lacs is made up of 
reductions of Rs. 181-80 lacs, Rs. 0-43 lacs and Rs. 3-83 lacs under "Medical 
Benefits”, "Other Benefits" and "Administration Expenditure” respectively partly 
offset by an increase in expenditure on account of provision of Cash Benefits 
amounting to about Rs. 6 ■ 16 lacs. The substantial fall in the expenditure on 
medical benefits is mostly due to the non-implementation or delayed-imple- 
mentation of the Scheme at various centres and non-extension of medical care 
to the facilies of the insured p rsons as explained in para 3 above. That similar 
reductions have not been brought about in the expenditure on Cash Benefits is 
because the incidence of sickness is stiil on the upword trend and has not stabi- 
lised. Thus comparatively larger amounts had to oe exp nded per insured 
person for Cash Benefits. The incidence of sickness benefit has now increased 
from about Rs. 16-5 per insured employee in 1980-61, to about Rs. 18-12 per 
insured employee in 1961-62. 


12, The provision made under “Other Benefits” is based on the prog ess of 
•expenditure during the current year. The provision includes a sum of Rs. ,15,000, 
.as grant-in-ald to the Bharat Sevak Samaj for imparting of Yoga Education at 
D-lhi for the promotion of health of the insured employees through "Yogasanas . 


m 

13 Administrative Expenses.— (a) The total expenditure on account of 
“Administrative Expenses” during the year 1961-62, is now anticipated to be 
Rs 1 23,96,000, as against Rs. 1,27,79,000 originally envisaged in the budget. The 
saving of about 4 lacs is due mainly to the non-extension of the Scheme to new 
areas and postponement of certain items o“ miscellaneous expenditure partly offset 
by increased expenditure on existing offices. 


(b) The revised estimates also take into account an expenditure of about 
Rs. 68,500 Incurred in West Bengal Region in anticipation of the Scheme being 
implemented in the districts of 24 -Pareinas and Hooghly in that region, which 
expectation could not, however, materialise. 


(c) An expenditure of about Rs. 88,000 will be incurred in Gujerat Region 
where a nucleus staff is kept for looking after the implementation of the Scheme 
and also the collection of Employers’ Special Contribution in the region. 

(d) The per capita administrative expenditure for the year 1981-62. (Revised 
Estimates 1 will on the basis of the weighted average number of insurabl 
emplovees now be Rs. 7-28 pc.r insured employee as against Rs 7-16, envisaged 
?n° Budget Estimates for 1(61-62. and the actual of Rs. 6- 12 per insured employee 
during 1960 61. The increase in 1961-62, is due mainly to the employment o 

additional staff in the Regional and Local ^he 'convenlenca 

■sDlittimr up of the larger local offices into smaller offices to suit the convenience 

of insured persons and to the revision of the pay scales on J5, c t u r e f°i^ssimied by 
the Pav Commission. The amount of administrate expenditure as assigned by 
the Valuer in his valuation Report for the quinquennium ended 31st March, 1954, 
was Rs. 7-7 per insured employse. 


14. Capital Expenditure.— The amount originally provlded fcr expenditure on 
Capital Account was Rs. 209-01 lacs comprising of (a) Rs. 30 lacs for the con 
struction of office buildings; (b) Rs. 179 lacs for the construction of Hospitals and 
Dispensaries and their equipment. 

(a) Office Building .- Keeping In v^w the proposals for 
land for office buildings presently in hand, the pr o ^css of land aequisition pro_ 
ceeding for obtaining some plots for this purpose ^ Ah™edabad the- expenoi 
ture actually incurred and anticipations during the remaining part of Sr 

ye£, It is now estimated that the expenditure during the current year (1961-62) 



Sl-c. :’(ii)j THE GAZETTE OE INDIA ; MAY 5, 196.IyVAISAK.IIA 15, 1881 


will amount to only Rs. 15 lacs (approximately) as against the original figure of 
Rs. 30 lacs. Provision has been made accordingly. 

(b) Hospitals and, Dispensaries and their equipment. — An expenditure of 
Rs, 86,81,086, only has been incurred during the first eight months of the current, 
year 1961-62, on the construction of Hospitals and Dispensaries. Based on 
further information received from the State Governments and the expected re- 
quirements of the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Bombay, which is expect- 
ed to start working with 300 beds in January, 1962, it is anticipated that a total' 
expenditure of Rs, 234-85 lacs nra v be incurred during the current year (1961-62). 
Provision has been made accordingly. 

15. Purchase of Staff Cars. — It is proposed to purchase thre? staff cars for the- 
Regional Offices in Ahmedabad, Madras and Kanpur. Provision for one staff car 
(Rs. 15,000) has been made during the current year 1961-62, and for the remain- 
ing two ca s (Rs. 30,000) during the year 1962-63. 

16. Loans to State Governments. — The original provision of Rs. 25 lacs made 
in the Budget Estimates for 1961-62, has been retained in the Revised 
Estimates to meet the demand of any State Government, if received and approved 
This has been done in view of the increased activities all over India in respect 
of construction of Hospitals and Dispensaries by the State Governments. The 
question of making any provision for the year 1962-63 will, however, be 
considered next year at the time of preparation of the Revised Estimates. 
For the present, no provision has been made in the Budget Estimates for 1962-63. 

17. During 1961-62, the revenue surplus is now estimated at Rs. 1,61,98,000 
as against Rs. 30,62,000 originally anticipated. This will not, however, be suffi- 
cient to meet the sum total of the estimated Capital expenditure (Rs. 250 lacs) 
and the amount required for the grant of loans to State Governments for con- 
struction of Hospita.s and Dispensaries (Rs. 25 lacs), i.e., 275 lacs, in all. Thus, 
there may not be any additional net investment during the current year. After 
utilising a part of the opening cash balance, securities worth Rs. 90 lacs (approxi- 
mately) from the accumulated investments may have, therefore, to be realised. 

18. Cash balance. — The current year 1961-62 Is expected to close with a cash: 
balance of Rs. 50,96,425 as against the opening balance of Rs. 71,88,825, 

BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1962-63 

liLci-li-r.', 

19. Provision on account of Employers' Special Contribution, which is payable 
quarterly in arrears, has been made at the existing rates, viz., H% of the total' 
wages of the employees in the implemented areas and at ot the total wagfes 
In the .ion-implemented areas. The provision under Employees’ Contribution 
comprises of contributions at the scheduled rates from the employees of all imple- 
mented centres for the whole or part of the year depending upon the respective 
dates of coverage. 

20. Other heads of Revenue.— A sum of about Rs. 72,25,000 Is expected to be 
earned as interest on the investment of the General Cash Balance and Rs. 13,00(9 
as rent from the employees of the Corporation to whom the surplus accommoda- 
tion available in the buildings owned by the Corporation has been let out for 
residential purposes, 

Expenditure 

21. The Increased provision under the various heads in the Budget Estimates 
for the year 1962-63, as compared to the corresponding provision in the Revised 
Estimate’s for the year 1961-62, is mainly due to: 

(1) the extension of medical care to the families of insured persons; 

(il) the extension of the Fcheme to new areas; and 

( iji ) the operation of the Scheme in areas where the implementation was 
brought about during the year 1961-62 for a full year. 

22. (a) Medical Benefits. — The Corporation’s share of the total expenditure- 
incurred by the State Governments, in providing medical care to the Insured 
persons, has been increased from 3 /4th to 7 /8th from the date from which 
medical care is extended to the families of the insured persons. It is anticipated 
that (tie Corporation's share of the cost of medical care for the insured persons 
and their families (23,75,750 insured employees and 15,22,100 units of their 
families as detailed In Appendix I) will amount to about Rs. 5,50,00,000, 



1488 The gazette of india: may 5, i& 62 /vaisakha 15, 1884 [Paul ii 


(b) Expenditure on Health Education Scheme .- — Provision is being made lor 
the 'Health Education Scheme’ ior the first time. This scheme envisages the 
Implementation of a programme of Health Education for the insured persons 
under Section 19 of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948. It is proposed 
to set up a central unit at the Headquarters of the Corporation together with two 
field units at two pilot centres, one each in the areas covered by the panel and 
the service system and where the medical care has been extended to the families 
ol the insured persons. The expenditure likely to be incurred on the two held 
units is proposed to be charged“to ‘Benefits’ while the expenditure on the central 
unit ut the Headquarters will be a part oi the Administrative Expenditure, 

22. Cash Benefits. — The provision made for the various cash benefits are based 
on the progress of actuals per insured employee for the first eight months of the 
year 1981-82 after making due allowance (i) for the commencement of the 
benefit period (h) the wages in the different areas, and (ili) the slow 
progress of expenditure in the first year of implementation of the Scheme in new 
areas. It includes Capitalised Values based on actuarial calculations, of the total 
liability of the Permanent (Partial and total) Disablement and Dependants 
Benefits expected to arise out of employment injuries occurring during the course 
of the year 1982-83. 

24. Administrative Expenses, — The Administrative expenses have been exhi- 
bited under two heads, viz., (A) Superintendence and (B) Field Work. Subject 
to the remarks in para 7(b) above, the head “A-Supermtendence” embraces 
administrative expenditure relating to the Headquarters and the Regional Offices 
while “B-Fleld Work" covers similar expenditure pertaining to the Local and 
Inspection Offices. 

25. A total provision of Rs. 1,55,16,000 has been made in the Budget for the 
year 1952-63 which works out on pro-rat a to about Rs. 7 '67 per insured employee. 
Provision on account of pay and allowances has been made for the posts which 
have already been sanctioned by the Standing Committee except in respect of 
posts required for certain new centres. The proposals for sanction of posts for 
the new centres will be submitted separately for approval in due course. In 
case further provision is required on this account, n supplementary budget will 
be submitted to the Standing Committee. The provision also takes into account 
the increased expenditure due to the revision of pay scales as a result of the 
recommendations of the Pay Commission. 

A statement showing details of the provision made under the head "Allowances 
and Honoraria” is attached vide Statement ‘C’, 

26. Contingencies — (both under A-Superintendence and B-FJeld Work).— (a) 

The various sub-heads under which provision has been made are self-explanatory. 
Tne provision under the head “Contribution Stamps” represents the manufacturing 
-cost of the stamps and the commission payable to the banks for their custody and 
sale. These stamps are sold to the employers who affix them on contribution cards 
In pnyment of the employees' share of contribution. 

(b) Legal charges . — The charges represent fees paid to lawyers and other 
court charges In cases instituted by and against the Corporation. The number 
of such cases is on the increase partly due to the progress and extension of the 
Scheme and partly due lo the nolicy adopted for taking prompt legal action for 
the recovery of over-due contributions and for prosecuting habitual defaulters. 

27. Capital expenditure, — (a) Office buildings . — A sum of Rs. 25 lacs has been 
provided in the year 1962-63 to cover the cost of plots of land expected to be 
.purchased/acquired in various places and construction of office buildings. 

(b) Hospitals and Dispensaries and equipment— Though the exact requirements 
-of the various State Governments have not yet been made known to the Corpora- 
tion a provision of Rs. 3,74.70 000 has been made in the estimates for the year 
1962-63 comorising ii) Ra. 3.54.70 000 for construction of Hospitals and Dispen- 
saries and (ii) Rs.’ 20 lacs for equipments of Hospitals. The estimates are based 
mainly on the sanctions to schemes of Capital Construction already issued or 
•under examination, As the programme of Capital Construction has been accele- 
rated and is expected to gath r momentum, the provision made is expected to be 
fully utilised The provision also Includes the balance of the contribution to be 
paid by the Corporation towards the cost of construction and equipment of the 
Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Bombay, which is expected to function with 
-flOO beds from June 1962 onwards. 



Sec, 2(H)] THE GAZETT E. OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA IS, IB84 1489 


28. Loans to State Governments. — As already stated in para 19 above, no pro- 
vision on account of loans to State Governments has been made in the Budget 
Estimates for 1962-03. 

29. Cash Balance. — During 1962-63, a revenue deficit of Rs. 81 lacs has been 
estimated, A sum of Rs. 400 lacs will also be required for meeting capital expendi- 
ture. The total net outgo of Rs. 481 -23 jacs on these counts will be met mainly 
by realising securities worth Rs, 470 lacs during the year, the balance being met 
by utilizing the incomings under other Debt, Deposit, etc., heads. 

It is anticipated that the closing cash balance on 31st March, 1962, will be 
Rs. 50,40,525. 

. 10 . Enhancement of the rates of Employer’s Special Contribution (ESC). — It 

will be seen from the foregoing that at the existing rates of Employers Special 
Contribution, i.e., at 1{% and ) G respectively in implemented and non-imple- 
mented areas, a revenue surplus of Rs. 161 lacs is estimated in the current year 
(1961-62) as against the actual surplus of Rs. 245 lacs In the preceding year 
(1960-61). In the ensuing year (1962-63), a deficit ol Rs. 81 lacs is, however, 
anticipated. The revenue surplus has turned Into a revenue deficit mainly because 
of the introduction of the Scheme of medical benefit for the families of the 
Insured persons in various regions including Maharashtra and larger payments 
by way of cash benefits due to an increase in the average Sickness rate. With 
the further extension of the Scheme of providing medical benefits to families of 
Insured persons in ensuing years, the deficit Is likely t> increase further. 

Due to an acceleration in the pace of capital expenditure during the current 
year and which Is expected to continue in future years also, the Corporation is, 
for the first time, faced with the necessity of realising some of the Government 
securities acquired during preceding years from out of the revenue surpluses. 
Thus, during the current and in the ensuing year, securities worth Rs. 90 lacs 
the rate of Employers’ Special Contribution from 11% to 2J% in Implemented 
and Rs. 470 lacs are expected to be encashed. In case, the proposed Increase In 
the rate of Employers’ Special Contribution from JJ per cent to 2i per cent in 
implemented areas is brought about, it is estimated that there would be an 
increase in revenue from this source amounting to approximately Rs. 343 lacs. 
The additional revenue will not, however, fully meet the cash requirements of the 
Corporation and securities amounting to Rs. 127 lacs may still have to be 
.encashed during 1962-63, 

T. P. Kiiosla, 
Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees' State Insurance Corporation. 



STATEMENT ‘A’ 


EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
REVISED ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1961-62 AND BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1962-63 


r 


4- 

'S 


RECEIPTS 




Actuals 
for the 
year 

1958-59 

Actuals 
for the 
year 
1959-60 

Actuals 
for the 
year 
1960-61 

Sanctioned 
budget 
estimates for 
the current 
year 
1961-62 

Revised Estimates for the current year 1961-62 

Budget 
estimates 
for the next 
year 
1962-63 

Serial 

No. 

Head of 
Account 

Actual of 
first 8 

months of the 
current year 
1961-62 

Anticipated 
receipts 
of the remain- 
ing 4 months of 
the current year 
1961-62 

Revised 
estimates for 
the current 
year 
1961-62 
(Col. 7 — 8) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 



Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 


Principal Heads of 
Revenue 









I 

Contributions: 
Employer’s share 
only 

2,90,24,081 

3.i8,53.73i 

3,73,62,109 

3,80,00,000 

2,88,07427 

1,094x5,573 

3,97,08,000 

445,49,cco 


Employees’ share 
only 

3,81,11,950 

4,08,09,252 

5,01,07,123 

6,10,00,000 

3,5849458 

1,8047,542 

5.38,574>oo 

5.92,99,000 

ir 

Grant-in-aid, Do- 
nations and Gifts 





2.934 

66 

3, 000 



Other Heads of 
Revenue 









in 

I nterest and Divid- 
ends 

50,52,671 

59,49470 

67.30,937 

71,37,000 

5344432 

23,62,368 

77,06,500 

7545.50 

rv 

Compensation 









y 

Rents, Rates and 
Taxes . 

13.365 

11.776 

1 1.32? 

H.OOP 

9>°07 

3.993 

13400 

1340 0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 6, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 



VI 


VII 


Fees, Fines and 
forfeitures 

9 ,iS 8 


2 ^ 7 ? 

2/300 

10,314 

1,786 

1 12,100 

7. 2400 

Miscellaneous 

70^17 

LII .527 

145/611 

1,28,000 

74,791 

49,609 

1/24400 

1,35,300 

Total Revenue . 

7,22^1472 

7 , 3737,164 

9 , 43 , 39.386 

10 , 62 , 78/300 

7/00,7 8/>63 

333 ^ 45,937 

10,14*24,000 

10,7544,000 

Debt, Deposits, Ad- 
vances & Suspen- 
se Ordinary Debt'. 

Loans — ■ 

Loam received 

from Central 

Government 









Loans refunded 

by State Govern- 
ment 





.. 




Unfunded Debt : g 

Employees’ State 

Insurance Corpo- 
ration Provident 
Fund — 

Employees’ subs-, 
criptioa 

3 , 93,972 

4,95,101 

5 , 57,656 

6 / 30/500 

1 4,95324 

2,60,576 

1 7,56,000 

[ 8,80,000 

Corporation con- 
tribution 

2,27,850 

2,63311 

3/51,852 

3 , 50,000 


340,000 

340,000 

3,50,000 

Interest on Em- 
ployees’ subs- 

cription . 

40,563 

54,777 

69,050 

85/500 


75/300 

75,000 

80,000 

Interest on Corpo- 
ration’s Contri- 
bution 

24,586 

33,305 

43346 

53/300 


55,000 

55,000 

70,000 

T ox al— Unfunded 
Debt 

6,91,971 

8^494 

9,72,104 

10 ^ 8/300 

4,95AM 

7 , 30,576 

1246,000 

\ 13,80,000 


Sec. fl(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VALSAKHA 15,«»1884 



I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Rs, Rs. Rs. 

Deposits and Ad- 
vances Reserve 
Funds : 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund of 
buddings for the 
offices of the Cor- 
poration. 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund Acc- 
ount of buildings 
for the offices of 
the Corporation. 


Annual deprecia- 
tion charges trans- 
ferred to the fund 4,700 4,700 4,700 

Interest accrued 
& 'or realised on 

investment . 1,916 1,916 1,915 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund acco- 
unt of equip- 
ments in Hospi- 
tals and Exami- 
nation Centres : 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund account 
of equipment . 

Annual depreda- 
tion charges trans- 
ferred to the fund. 

Interest accrued 
&'or realised on 
investments. 


M36 


4,556 


6789 10 

■r! H rF. Rl RsT 


4,700 9,500 9,500 9,5oo 

2,000 < 1,165 735 1,900 1,900 


1,200 


7,ioo 


7,100 


5,ooo 


1492 THE GAZETTE of INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part U 


Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund acc- 
ount of Hospital 
buildings : 

Annual deprecia- 
tion charges tra- 
nsferred to the 
Fund 



2,181 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund acc- 
ount of Staff Cars: 

Annual deprecia- 
tion charges trans- 
ferred to the Fund 



3*805 

Repairs and Ma- 
intenance Reserve 
Fund of buildings 
for the offices of 
the Corporation : 

Annual maintenan- 
ces and repair 
charges trans- 

ferred to the 
fund 

ISW50 

19*450 

19*450 

Interest accrued 
&/or realised on 
investment 

2,486 

2*486 

2*486 

Gain on realisa- 
tion of investment] 

c , 

.. 


Deduct — Actual 
payments during 
the year . 

+337 

(—125,187 

C — >49*857 

Permanent (part- 
tial & total) Dis- 
ablement Benefit 
Reserve Fund. 





2*000 

3,000 

1,000 


6,020 

6,200 

6,200 

6*200 


19,500 


28,500 

28,500 

48*500 

14,300 

M79 

1,121 

2,600 

2,700 

• - 


—27 

1,300 


136,000 

. . 

—26&CC 

26^00 

— 22,000 


; 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 8 , 196S/VAI8AKHA 18, 1884 1493 




2 

3 

4 

3 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Permanent (par- 
tial and total) Dis- 
ablement Benefit 
Reserve Fund 

Account. 


• • 







Annual amount 
transferred to the 
Fund 

23,86,500 

37,19^00 

37,76,300 

42*61,000 


40,90*000 

40,90,000 

51,50,000 

Interest accrued 
and/or realised 
on investments . 

1,421952 

1,96^19 

3,00,941 

3^300 

2*47,944 

2,14*056 

4,62*300 

5,37,50° 

Deduct —Actuals 
payments during 
the year - 

(—>4,69,568 

(—>7,83,541 

(—>9*36.981 

(—>ii,99^oo 

.. 

(—>11,96,000 

(—>11,964300 (_ 

-)I4,65,OCO 

Dependants’ Be- 
nefit Reserve 

Fund. 


* • 

• • 






Dependants’ Be- 
nefit Reserve 
Fund account. 


• * 

■ • 






Annual amount 
transferred to the 
Fund 

9,31,500 

10^26,900 

11,84^00 

14^4,000 

, . 

I2,7C^OOO 

12,704300 

16,10,000 

Interest accrued 
it /or realised on 
investment 

43,060 

68,379 

1,00491 

1,22*400 

77.997 

67*403 

1 5*4oo 

1,65,000 

Deduct — Actual 
payments during 
the year 

(— >1,90,527 

—2,77,699 

(— ) 3,51,899 

5*69,700 

, , 

(— > 5*49^00 

(— )5.49,ooo (- 

—>6,91,000 

Total — Raerct 
Funds 

28,72^06 

^>55*459 

40,72468 

44,76*300 


39,24,588 

12,54,500 

53,59,300 


X494 THE GAZETT E ° F INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part U 



beposits 


Deposits of 


Securities 

25-479 

59-824 

17,597 

50,000 

18,506 

21-494 

40,000 

40,000 

Other Deposits 


5,181 

4,516 


2^00,242 

(—>10,242 

1,90,000 


Total — Deposits 

2 5>479 

65,003 

22,113 

50,000 

2,18,748 

11,252 

2,30,000 

40,000 

Advances 









(a) Permanent 

Advances 

95 

143 

962 


722 

78 

800 


(i) Advances to 
the employees of 
the Corporation : 









(i) Advance of 
pay on transfer . 

28,714 

28,179 

19,776 

344100 

20,182 

19,818 

40,000 

35 ,Ooo 

(it) Advance of 

T.A. on transfer 

34^55 

34,30 

24,2-29 

30,000 

22,223 

17,767 

40,000 

40,000 

(its) Advance for 
the purchase of 
motor conveyan- 
ces 

11,286 

64>99 

14,969 

24400 

25473 

14,827 

40,000 

50,000 

(iv) Advance for 
the purchase of 
other conveyan- 
ces 

1 304 1 

18^56 

20-465 

30,000 

16^000 

8,200 

25,000 

30,000 

(0) Miscellaneous 

64,326 

94-251 

1416,930 

1,25,000 

34^87 

i-45,n3 

i,8oscoo 

2,00,000 

(e) Other Advances : 









(i) Advance pay- 
ments on behalf 
of State Govern- 
ments 

i >234 

516 

3,967 

2,000 

1,365 

1,635 

3,000 

2,500 


8ec, 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1495 



I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs- 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

(is) Advance to 
the bank for the 
purchase of 

Securities 

60 


1,58,37,634 

•* 

5745,100 

1,50,62400 

247,67,100 


(fit) Miscellaneous 

1,05,928 

t.13,543 

140,624 

240400 

41427 

1,58473 

240400 

240400 

T 0 Tal — A do antes 

2,59,639 

2,95,517 

i, 6 i, 69,5J6 

443400 

58^7,589 

i,5448,3ii 

242,95,900 

5,57,500 

Remittai 

Cash Remittances 

4,96,300 


• • 

.. 

8,94,54,184 

(->14245,684 

7,8248,500 


Other Remittances 

• • 

• * 

. • 

. - 

93,64,127 

(->4,72,627 

88,91,500 


Total— Remittan- 

MS 

4,96,3000 

•• 


-• 

94848,311 

(->146,98,311 

8,7140400 

•• 

Total — Debt, Deposits, 

Advances, Suspense 

& Remittances . 

4346,195 

51,62473 

3,12,36441 

60,57,000 

10,5749,984 

83,96416 

1144146400 

73,36400 

Total — Receipts . 

7,6647,667 

8,38,99,637 

n,55,75428 

ii43,35^)oo 

17,5848447 

3,9742,353 

21,55,50400 

114840,800 

Opening Balance. 

^55,71,680 

69,65,788 

70,52,558 

56,76,558 

71,88,825 


7148425 

50,96425 

Grand Total . 

841,99,347 

948,65425 

124647,986 

11 , 8041,558 

1849,96,872 

3,9742,353 

2247,39425 

11,99,57425 


Note. — T he derailed heads under which no figures appear have been omitted. 


T. P. KHOSLA, 
Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation. 


I496 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 8, I96Z/VAISAKHA IB, 1884 [Part II 



EMPLOYEES’ STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 


REVISED ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1*65-62 AND BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1962-63. 


EXPENDITURE STATEMENT ‘A’ 



Actuals 

for 

the year 
1958-59 

Actuals 

for 

the year 
1959-60 

Actuals 

for 

the year 
1960-61 


Revised Estimates for the Current year 
1961-62 

Budget 
estimate 
for the next 
year 
1962-63 

Heads of Account 

budget 
estimates 
for the 
current 
year 

1961-62 

Actuals 
of first 8 
months of 
the current 
year 
1961-62 

Anticipated 
expenditure 
of the 
remaining 

4 months 
of the 
current 
year 
1961-62 

Revised 
estimates 
for the 
current 
year 
1961-62 
(Cols. 7&8) 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

IO 

I , Expenditure on 

Revenue Account. 

Benefits to in- 
sured persons & 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

their families 

A — -Medical Bene- 
fits : 

Payments to State 
Governments, etc. 
as Corpora- 

tion’s Share of 
their expenses on 
providing medical 
treatment, ma- 
te mi ty facilities 









ere. 

1,6846,691 

2,19,28,014 

348,67,285 

4,95,00,000 

51,73423 

2,6146,577 

3,13,20,000 

549,22,000 


Sec. 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1497 



2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

8 

9 

10 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Medical treatm nt 
and. care and 

maternity facilities 
(expenses .in- 

curred direct by 
the Corporation). 









Expenditure on 
Health Education 
Scheme 








78,000 

Tot tL A — Medi- 
cal Benefits 

1,68,46,691 

2,19^8,014 

2,48,67,285 

4,95,00,000 

51,73,423 

2,61^6,577 

3,13420,000 

5,50,0041'' 0 

B — Cash Benefits : 









Sickness Benefit . 

1 , 79 , 78,393 

2 , 15 , 93,937 

2,48,76,290 

2,85,004100 

2,00,29,774 

99,83^226 

340,13,000 

3,16414,000 

Extended Sickness 
Benefit 

5, 64,482 

6,20,316 

8,02,946 

13,68,000 

7 , 3 G 729 

3 , 53^271 

10,854)00 

ii>42 5 ooo 

Aiatemity Benefit . 

10,26,047 

13 , 59,490 

15,15,702 

18,47,000 

h,83,335 

6,20,665 

184144100 

19,63,000 

Disablement Bene- 
fit 

40 , 70,969 

59,14,923 

63,41,365 

74,57,000 

26,77,916 

44^24084 

7ifiOfico 

85,11,000 

Dependants’ Be- 
nefit 

9 , 3 G 500 

10,10,541 

n, 73^450 

14,844100 

2 , 99,720 

9,704280 

r2 3 70jOO0 

16,10,000 

Total B — Cask 
Benefits 

2 , 45 , 71.391 

3414,99^07 

3 , 47 , 09,753 

4,06,56,000 

2 H 9 .- 22 .H 74 

1,63^9,526 

4,12,72,000 

4, 48,50,000 

Provision of arti- 
ficial limbs to 
disabled insured 
persons 

17,922 

13 H 76 

244)76 

50*000 

4,447 

35,553 

404)00 

454500 


t 498 the GAZETTE or INDIA. MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part H 



Medical Boards , 

4(6,09$ 

542193 

57 , 9*2 

96,500 

40,144 

38,856 

79,000 

92,000 

Fees paid for post- 
mortem examina- 
tion of Insured per- 
sons 

141 

10S 

101 

500 

16 

C-)«6 



Payment to insur- 
ed persons on acc- 
ount of convey- 
ance charges 3 c i 
or loss of wages . 

22,954 

35,994 

20,221 

37 >ooo 

17,886 

11,114 

29,000 

36,000 

Cost of artificial 
teeth provided to 
the Insured per- 
sons 


86 

126 

1,000 

73 

927 

^ 1,000 

7,000 

Grant-in-aid 


• • 

5,000 

20,000 

5,000 

10,000 

15,000 

20,200 

Miscellaneous 

io 650 

30,224 

55,418 

762x00 

44,247 

29,753 

74,000 

87,000 

Total C — Other 
Benefits 

97,763 

1,34 >081 

1,62,844 

2,81,000 

1,11,813 

1,26,187 

2 , 39 ,ooo 

2,81,000 

Total of Head- 
I — Benefits 

4 . 15 , 15=845 

5,25,61,302 

5,97,39,882 

9,04,37,000 

3,02457,710 

4,26,22,290 

7,28,30,000 

10,01,31,000 

Admiaintratioii Ex- 
penses 









A — Superintendence 
Corporation, Stand- 
ing Committee, 
Regional Boards 
etc. 









(0 T.A. . 

5,640 

23,628 

20,581 

38,000 

16,417 

1 1,583 

28,000 

37 , 40 ° 

(iij Miscellaneous 

467 

12030 

1,536 

2,000 

888 

1,112 

2,000 

2,900 

Total — Corpora - 
tion , Standing 

Committee , Re - 
gional Boards , etc . 

6,107 

24,658 

22,117 

40,000 

17,305 

12,695 

30,000 

40,300 


Sec, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY •>, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15, 1881 



I 2 

3 

4 

5 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Principal Officers : 




(i) Pay of Prin- 
cipal Officers 

55 =oi6 

55,055 

91,658 

(if) Allowances & 
Honoraria 

24,012 

24.633 

30,940 

(iff) Leave and 

Pension Contri- 
bution § , 

6=472 

12,912 

13,525 

(lit) Contribution 
to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund 




Total — Principal 
Officers 

85,500 

92,600 

1,36,123 

Other Officers : 




(0 Pay of other 
Officers 

4=29=459 

5,28,486 

5,60,341 

(if) Allowances & 
Honoraria 

2,16,092 

2=53,875 

2,68,001 

(fii) Leave and 

Pension Contri- 
bution 

12=648 

20,099 

i4,73i 

(fit) Contribution 3 
to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund 




Total — Other Offi- 
cers . ... 

-6,58=199 

S=o 2,460 

S=43=°75 


6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

i 3 i3,ooo 

74,566 

37,034 

1,11,600 

1,17,500 

46,000 

22=403 

8,997 

31=400 

36,500 

16,000 

11,715 

7=285 

19,000 

22,000 

1,75,000 

1,08,684 

53=316 

1,62,000 

1,76,000 

6,00,000 

4=22,739 

2,36,561 

6,59,300 

7,80,800 

3,88.000 

1,64=451 

1=25=949 

2,90=400 

3,21,600 

12,000 

9,121 

2=379 

11,500 

12=600 

70,00,000 

5,96,3 h 

3,64,889 

9,6r=2oo 

ir,i54»o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part IE 


Ministerial Establi- 
shments : 


(f! Pay of Estab- 
lishment 

9 = 41=663 

10 , 59,489 

11,69,395 

14,76,000 

14,79,772 

7,01,128 

2130,900 

25,73,600 

(it) Allowances & 
Honoraria 

9 , 87,537 

10 , 77,942 

11,72,305 

13,74,000 

4,79,328 

2,71,272 

7,50,600 

8,66 r5 00 

(tti) Leave and 

Pension Con- 

tribution 

275 


143 


938 

362 

1,300 

900 

(to) Contribution 

to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund 

2,27,850 

2,63,311 

3,01,239 

3,50,000 


3,40,000 

3,40,000 

3,50,000 

T or al — Minis teria i 
Establishment 

21 , 57,325 

24,00,742 

26,434382 

32,00,000 

19,60,038 

13,12,762 

32,72300 

37 , 90,000 

Class IV Servants 









(0 Pay of Class IV 
Servants 

1 , 26,354 

1,50,107 

1,71,453 

2)00)000 

2,91,163 

1 ^ 40,337 

4,31,500 

4,67300 

(ii) Allowances & 
Honoraria 

2,34,678 

2,72,366 

3,09,151 

3,60,000 

1,13,485 

66,013 

1 , 79,500 

2433,600 

(tii) Contribution 
to ESIC Provid- 
ent Fund . 









Total — Class TV 
Servants . 

3,61,032 

4 , 22 y }73 

4,80,604 

5,604300 

4434,648 

2436,353 

6,114300 

6,71300 

Contingencies : 









( a ) Postage, T e- 
legram and Te- 
lephone Charges 

1,38,708 

1,61,800 

1,79,685 

2,50,000 

1,36,514 

88,286 

2,24,800 

3 y 47 , 0 OO 

( b ) Stationery and 
Forms 

5,63,402 

11,70434 

8,89,699 

12.724300 

3,47,116 

5,52,884 

9430,000 

1537,600 


500 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY S, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1884 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

9 

9 

10 

(c) Contribution 
Stamps 

Rs. 

54,901 

Rs. 

46,566 

Rs. 

71,911 

Rs. 

80,000 

Rs. 

76,205 

Rs. 

3,795 

Rs. 

80,000 

Rs. 

85,000 

(d) Purchase, Re- 
pair and Main- 
tenance of Type- 
writers, Dupli- 
cators etc. 

17,612 

26,362 

18,447 

32,000 

6,739 

18,261 

25,000 

36,9<» 

(e) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance , etc, of 

Adrema Equip- 
ments 

32,627 

46,063 

34,742 

I 3 OO yOOO 

6,381 

73,6t9 

80,000 

91,700 

if) Rents, Rates 
and Taxes 

1,59,858 

2,07,228 

2,22,540 

4,20,000 

1,51,162 

1,18,938 

2,70,100 

4,08,300 

t?) Furniture 

23,862 

28,581 

39,745 

55,000 

11,115 

38,885 

50,000 

33,300 

( h ) Special equip- 
ment for re- 
cords 

32,325 

10,406 

12,136 

25^000 

4,946 

30,054 

55,ooo 

26,600 

(0 Purchase, Re- 
pair, Maintenance, 
etc. cf General 
Articles of Office 
use 

11,074 

24,376 

44,024 

50,000 

17,138 

26,863 

44,000 

24,600 

C’) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance of Cycles . 

1,354 

484 

526 

1,000 

129 

1,071 

I >200 

900 

(k) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance of Liveries - 

15,338 

21,636 

14,780 

45,°oo 

9,538 

34,862 

44,400 

33,5<» 

(1) Books, Perio- 
dicals and other 
publications 

5,665 

2,786 

5*460 

8,000 

1,892 

3,808 

5,700 

7>&» 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Pait II 



(*) Photographs of 
workers 


• , 

• * 


• • 

*• 



(«) Hot and cold 
weather charges 

2,882 

3,797 

3,94i 

6,000 

2,091 

2,009 

4,100 

6,900 

Co ) Repair and 

Maintenance of 
Staff Cars . 



1,896 

11,000 

2,676 

3,224 

6,900 

7,700 

ip ) Miscellaneous 

77,337 

92,042 

89066 

1,45,000 

68,705 

31,295 

1,00,000 

1,46,000 

Total — Contin- 
gencies 

11,36,943 

18,42,611 

16,28,798 

25*00,000 

8,42,346 

10,28,854 

18,71 caoo 

27,03^00 

Total — A — S tfPEE- 

INTENDKNCE . 

44,05 ,i «5 

55,85,544 

57-53,797 

74,75,000 

39^9,333 

29,78,868 

69,08,200 

84,96,500 

B — FIELD WORK 

Officers: 

(0 Pay of Officers 

77,565 

83,736 

84,800 

1,00,000 

54^52 

53,248 

1,08 -JCC 

3 f ;t 

(tt) Allowances & 
Honoraria 

35,173 

38,970 

39,359 

55,000 

21,591 

10,509 

32,100 

42,40° 

(m) Leave and 

Pension contri- 
bution 







* 


(to) Contribution 
to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund 









Total — Officers . 

1,12,738 

1,21,706 

1,24,159 

i,55>ooo 

76 >443 

63,757 

1,40,200 

2,00,700 

Ministerial Estab- 
lishment: 

(i) Pay of Establish- 
ment 

10,67,338 

12,74,594 

15,27,823 

18,41,000 

17,14,28a 

9,5L5i8 

26,65,800 

35,57,700 

(a) Allowance; & 
Honoraria 

8,82,675 

10,11,810 

11,68,887 

1 3,00, coo 

4,61 ,069 

2,69,631 

7,30,700 

7,77,000 


S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 



I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

3 

9 

10 

(hi) Leave and 

Pension contri- 
bution 

Rs. 

617 

Rs. 

116 

Rs. 

(-) 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

(tv) Contribution 
to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund. 









Total — Ministerial 
Establishment 

19,50,630 

22,86,520 

26,96,708 

31,41,000 

2 i, 75 , 35 i 

12,21,149 

33 , 96,500 

43 , 34,700 

Class IV Servants 
(0 Pay of Class 
IVServants 

1,21,745 

1 , 43,530 

1 , 96,533 

2,509000 

2,96,865 

1,49,035 

4 , 45 , 9 oo 

5,84ptoo 

(t 0 Allowances & 
Honoraria 

2, 13=758 

2,41,907 

2,82,842 

3,30,000 

87,125 

66,575 

1 , 53,700 

1,76,600 

(m) Contribution 
to ESIC Provi- 
dent Fund. 









Total — Class IV 
Servants 

3 , 35*503 

3 , 85,437 

4 , 52,375 

5,80,000 

3,83,990 

2,15,610 

5,99,600 

7,60,800 

Contingencies 

(a) Postage, Tele- 
gram & T ele- 
phone Charges . 

31,190 

38,548 

81,859 

1,10,000 

56,301 

43,059 

99,400 

1,23,000 

(6) Stationery & 
Forms 

2,275 

33 ,oi 7 

3*474 

18,000 

2,629 

9,171 

11,800 

32,000 

(c) Contributions 
Stamps 



# . 

, , 





( 4 ) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainte- 
nance of Type- 
writers, Dupli- 
cators, etc. 

3,451 

ii »>79 

1 

31,741 

45,000 

5 , 19 $ 

24*801 

30^00 

34,000 


1504 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY #, 1962/VA1SAK.HA 15, 1884 [Pait H 



(e) Rents, Rates 


andTaxes 

1,70,072 

1=95=017 

2,58,768 

C/) Furniture 

n ; 7i5 

39,033 

58,186 

(g) Special equip- 
ment for re- 

cords 

52=899 

1,14,807 

1,76,152 

(A) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance, etc. of Gene- 
ral Articles of 

office use . 

8,647 

23,681 

>2,379 

({) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance of Cycles . 

484 

538 

405 

(f) Purchase, Re- 
pair & Mainten- 
ance of Liveries . 

- 2,574 

5=083 

5=729 

(k) Books, Perio- 
dicals and other 
publications 

28 

192 

416 

(0 Hot and Cold 
weather charges 

i=745 

2=589 

2,983 

(m) Miscellaneous 

37=760 

49,622 

74,665 

Total — Cont m- 

GEMCIES 

3,22,840 

4,83,406 

7=46=757 

To t a l — B — Field 
Work 

27,21,711 

32,77.069 

40=19=999 

C— OTHER CHAR- 
GES 




Legal charges 

46,181 

75=002 

63=755 

Insurance Courts . 

589 

12,088 

17=412 


3.40.000 

1.30.000 

1,92,261 

10,929 

1=32,739 

89,071 

3,25,000 

1,00,000 

5,20,9c© 

81,500 

1,70*000 

8,741 

i> 6 i ,259 

1,70,000 

1,68,9c© 

1,00,000 

- 15=927 

59,073 

75*000 

65,500 

6*000 

232 

768 

i ,000 

2=400 

20,000 

3=548 

16,452 

20,000 

36,400 

1,000 

24 

576 

600 

3,700 

10,000 

1 , 00.000 

3,686 

49=563 

1,014 

32,637 

4,700 

82,200 

12,200 

1,20,700 

10,50,000 

3,49,040 

5,70,660 

9,19,700 

12,01,200 

49,26,000 

29,84,824 

20,71,176 

50,56,000 

64=97=400 

74,900 

80,000 

66,689 

12,945 

45=3H 

27=055 

1,12,000 

40,000 

1,10,000 

50,000 


Sue. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY B, 1962/VAISAKHA IB, 1884 1505 



z 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Ri. 

R*. 

Rs. 

Ri. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Publicity and Ad- 
vertisement 

7,707 

3,667 

1,432 

25,000 

*9 

24,911 

25,000 

80,000 

Charges for main- 
taining Banking 
Accounts . 

5,280 

11,167 

17,519 

25,000 

5,082 

14,918 

20,000 

25,000 

AaditFees . 

i 8 , 53 © 

22,410 

26,720 

,40,00© 

7,950 

32,050 

40,000 

50,000 

Repair^ Mainten- 
ance & Depre- 
dation, etc: — 

(a) Depreciation 
of buildings for 
the offices oi the 
Corporation 

4,700 

4 , 7 oo 

4,700 

4,700 


9,500 

9,500 

9,500 

(6) Depreciation 
of Equipments in 
Hospitals and Ex- 
amination Cen- 
tres 


1,436 

4,556 

1 ,200 


7,100 

7,100 

5,000 

(c) Depreciation 
of Hospital BuO- 
ding 



2,181 

2,000 


1,000 

1,000 

1,000 

(d) Depreciation 
of Staff Cars 


.. 

3 , 0*5 

6,200 

4 • 

6,200 

6,200 

6,200 

(e) Repair & Main- 
tenance of buil- 
dings for the office* 

' of the Corpora- 
tion 

19,450 

19,430 

19,450 

I 9 , 5 <» 

13,157 

15,343 

28-500 

48,500 

(f) Repair and 

Maintenance of 
SiaffCars . 

! J 


r t 

T 1 

1 r 

r t 

t : 





T 4 * 


1506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY B, I962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part H 



Miscellaneous 

• . 

10 

14,082 

Losses . • 

. . 

2,347 

10 

Total — C — Other 
Charges . 

[.1,02,537 

1,52,277 

1 , 74,902 

Total of Heads 2 — 

- 



Administration 
Expenses . 

72,29,354 

90 , 14,890 

99 * 48,698 


3 Interest on loans: — 

Interest on loans 
from Central Go- 
vernment . • • 

Interest paid to 
the E.S.I.C. Pro- 

vident Etmd . 65,149 88,082 1,12,596 

Deduc l — Interest 
accrued &/ or re- 
alised on invest- 
ments of Provi- 
dent Fund bal- 

ance . . (— )19>538 (— )i7,95i (-)I7,95I 


Total Head 3 — 

Interest on Loans 45,6ii 7 °, i 3 i 94,645 

Total Administtra- 

ttvb Expenditure 

(Heads 2+3) . 72,74,965 90,85^021 i,«M3,343 

Total Expendi- 
ture on Revenue „ . „ __ 

Account . . 4,87,90,810 6,16,46,323 6,97,83,225 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY B, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


4 - Expenditure on Capital 

Account 

Lands and Build- 
ings 

A — Land and Budd- 
ings 

Purchase and Con- 
struction, etc. 
of:— 

(t) Buildings for 
the offices of the 


Corporation 

576 

5 , 65,859 

2 , 08,552 

(if) Hospitals and 
Dispensaries 

3 , 72,516 

13 , 46,366 

2,26,164 

(to) Equipment of 
Hospitals . 

405 


13=270 

D — Suspense 


. , 

52,25,017 


B — Staff Cars 
Purchase of Staff 

Cars . . . . . 40,704 

Total — Head 4 — 

Expenditure on 
Capital Account 

Debt, Depends Ad- 
vances and sus- 
pense. 


3 = 73,497 


19 , 12,225 


57 ,T 3 , 7<>7 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs 


30,00,000 

19,904 

14,80,096 

15,00,000 

25,00,000 

1,50,00,000 

5,67,076 

1,98,17,924 

2,03,85,000 

3,54,70,000 

29,00,000 

30,665 

82,12,045 

30 , 69,335 
— 82,12,045 

31,00,000 

20,00,000 

1,000 

•• 

15,000 

15,000 

30,000 

2,09,01,000 

88,29,690 

1,61,70,310 

2,50,00,000 

4,00,00,000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5 . 1962 /VAISAKHA 15 , 1884 [Part II 


OrdsnarylDeil 

Loans: 

Loans to Central 
Government (Re- 
payment) . 

Loans to State 
Government 


Unfunded Debt 

ELS.I.C. Provi- 
dent Fund: — 

Payments to sub- 
scribers . . 92,95s 1,62,459 2,54,014 

Total — Debts , 92,958 1,62,459 2,34,014 


Deposits and Ad- 
vances 


ReserveFunds 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund Ac- 
count of buildings 
for the offices of 
the Corporation: 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund In- 
vestment Account 
of buildings for 
the offices of the 
Corporation 


10,00c 


8,000 


6,500 


25,00,000 . . 25,00,000 25,00,000 


2,20,000 1,16,073 1,83,927 3,00,000 3458,000 

27,20,000 1,164573 26,83,927 28,00,000 3,084x0 


7,000 7,000 +400 13400 11,400 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19S2/VAISAKHA 16, 1884 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Rs. Rs. Rs. 


Depreciation Re- 
serve Fond Ac- 
count of Equip- 
ments in Hospi- 
tals and Exami- 
nation Centres: 

Depredation Re- 
serve Fund In- 
vestment Account 
of Equipments in 
Hospitals & Ex- 
amination Cen- 
tres . . , . . I>40Q 

Depredation Re- 
serve Fund Ac- 
count of Equip- 
ments in Hospi- 
tals and Exami- 
nation Centres : 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund In- 
vestment Account 
of Equipments in 
Hospitals and 
Examination Cen- 
tres . .. 

Depreciation Re- 
serve Fund of 
Staff Cars Invest- 

ment Ac count . » . • , 


6 7 8 9 lo 


Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 


1,500 4,5oq 2,600 7,100 5,000 


2,000 2,000 — 1,000 1,000 1,000 

3)0co 3,200 6^00 6,200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, I962/VAISAKHA 16, 1884 [Part If 



' Repair & Mainten- 
ance Reserve 
Fund Account of 
buddings for the 
offices of the Cor- 
poration: 

Repair & Mainten- 
ance Reserve Fund 
of buildings for 
the offices of the 
Corporation In- 
vestment Account 

Deduct — Realisa- 
tion on maturity 
or sale of in- 
vestment . , 

Permanent (Par- 
tial & Total) Dis- 
ablement Bene- 
fit Reserve Fund 
Account : . 

Permanent (Par- 
tial & Total) Dis- 
ablement Benefit 
Reserve Fund 
Investment Ac- 
count : 12,83,531 20 , 67,000 3 t, 35 , 96 l 


Dependants’ Bene- 
fit Reserve Fund 
Account : 

Dependants* Bene- 
fit Reserve Fund 
Investment Ac- 
count , . 4,45,500 7,87,800 8,16,98a 


Total Ressve Fukds 17,39,031 


28,62,800 


39,60,843 


13,987 13 14,000 6,400 


—12,500 — 12,673 — 27 — 12,700 


28,10,000 , , 31,22,000 31,22,000 33,56,000 


9,73,000 , . 9,25,000 9,25,000 8,66,500 


37,81,000 


17,814 


40,56,186 


40,74,000 


42,52,500 


Sec. 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 6 , 1962/VAISAKHA IB, 1884 


I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Deposits 









Deposits of Secu- 
rities 

34.343 

32,353 

35,827 

50,000 

24,689 

I5,3H 

40,000 

40,000 

Other Deposits : — 

Other deposits 

3.065 




1,81,613 

8,387 

1,90,000 


Total Deposits . 

37,408 

32,356 

35,827 

50,000 

2,06,302 

23,698 

2,30,000 

40,000 

Advances 









(a) Permanent ad- 
vances 

2T35 

3,168 

1=237 

5,ooo 

543 

2,457 

3,000 

10,000 

(5) Advances to 
Employees of the 
Corporation : — 









(t) Advance of Pay 
on transfer 

31,752 

27,532 

19,921 

32,000 

21,707 

18^293 

40,000 

354500 

(a) Advance of T. 

A. on transfer . 

38,125 

33,323 

23,913 

30,000 

25,914 

144586 

40,000 

40,000 

(m) Advance for 
the purchase of 
motor conveyances 

7,213 

17,400 

30,900 

40,000 

38,967 

214533 

60,000 

70,000 

(tt») Advance for 
the purchase of 
other conveyances 

14,237 

17,495 

25,9H 

30,000 

29,306 

10,694 

40,000 

40,000 

(«) House buil- 
ding Advances . 


t * 

, , 

, , 

, , 



50,000 

(ct) AdisceEaneous 

7 6 Mo 

91,128 

1*13=025 

1=25*000 

1,20,321 

59=679 

1,80,000 

2,004x0 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 



(c) Other Ad- 
vances: — 


(t) Advance pay- 
ments on behalf 
of State Govern- 
ments 

D723 

1*463 

5,408 

3,000 

2,549 —49 

2,500 

2,50c 

(ft) Advance to the 
Bank for pur- 
chase of Securi- 
ties . 


90 

1*58,37*545 


2,07,67,100 

2,07,67,100 


(to) Miscellaneous 

1*22,384 

58,588 

1,36,264 

2,00,000 

78,786 1,21,214 

2,00,000 

2,00,000 

( g ) Income tax 
deductions re- 
ceivable . 

c— ) 1,03,437 

(—>2,26,798 






Total — Advances 

1, 90*597 

23,389 

1,61,94,125 

4,65,000 

2,10,85,1 93 247407 

2,13,32,600 

647,500 

Remittances 








(1) Cssh remittan- 
ces . 

. , 

4=72,804 

72=749 

.. 

8,96,00,778 (—>1,13=72,278 

7,82^8,500 


( n ) Other remit- 
tances 

. , 

246 



1,15,90,283 (—>26,98,783 

88,91,500 


Total— Remittan- 
ces 

, . 

4,73*050 

72,749 

.. 

10,11,91,061 ( — >1,40,71,061 

8,71, 20, coo 


Total — Debt, De- 
posits, Advan- 
ces, Suspenses 
and Remittan- 
ces . 

20,59,994 

35*54=054 

2924*97,558 

70,16,000 

12,26, 16,443 (—)70,59,843 

11*55,56,600 

5248,000 

Total Disburse- 
ment 

5,12^4,301 

8,71,12,602 

9,59,94=490 

i3'ti,33,ooo 

16,86,89,407 5,70,93,193 

22,57,82,600 

16,08,95,000 


Sec. 8(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1513 


Cash Balances 








(a) Investments 








CO E. S. I. Cor- 
poration Pro- 
vident Fund 








(a) Investments 
during the 

year 

6,05,000 

6,30,00a 

6,84,500 

8,68,000 , 

642,994 3.03,006 

9,26,000 

10,72400 

Deduct — Realisation 
on maturity or 
sale of invest- 
ment 

C— >87400 



(—>6,300 

(— >6,337 37 

( — >6,300 

(—>2,700 

( it) General Cash 
Balances : — 








(a) Investments 
during the 

year 

44242494 

3,93,70,265 

5^21,36.473 

64649400 

4,6948441 1,90,95.* 59 

6,6043400 

34142400 

Deduct — Realisation 
on maturi ty or 
sale of invest- 
ment . . (- 

(b) Cash Balan- 
ces : — 

CO Cash in "1 

hand j 

(n) Cash with £- 
Bankers J 

->1,67,11436 (- 

— >2,3340400 (- 

—>3,33,76,302 (- 

->8,0340,000 (- 

-)444,70,7Si (—>2,66,32,119 (- 

->7,5142,900 

(—>8,11,70400 

69,65,788 

70,52,558 

71,88,825 

56,67458 

1,52,13,348 (—>141,16,923 

% 

50,96425 

5040,525 

Ghand Total . 

8,21,99,347 

9,08,65,425 

124647,986 

11,80,11,558 

1849,96,872 3,97,42,353 

2247,39425 

11,99,57,225 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA IS, 1884 [Part II 




Note — r. The detailed heads under which no figures appear have been omitted, 

2. The figures in respect of Contribution to E.S.I.C. Provident Fuad for all Categories of employees have been shown undo- “A — Superin- 
tendence — Ministerial Establishments”. 

(T. P. KHOSLA), 

Chief Accounts Officer, 

Employees* State Insurance Corporation, 


u* 

M 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 /VAISAKHA 16, 1884 



EMPLOYEES’ STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Income and Expenditure Account for the year ended 31# March 1962 {Estimate!) 
INCOME EXPENDITURE 


Ov 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Head of Account 


Amount 


By Contributions : — 

Employers’ Share only 

Employees’ Share only 

Total Contributions 

Grant-in-aid 

Other Heads of Revenue. 

Interest and Dividends 

Compensations 

Rents, Rates and Taxes 

Fees, Fines & Forfeitures . 

Miscellaneous - 

Total other heads of Revenue 


Rs. Rs. 


3.97.08.000 

5.38.57.000 

9,35*65*000 

3,000 3,000 

77,06,500 

i3>°oo 

12,100 

1,24,400 

78,56,000 


1. Benefits to insured persons and their 
families ..... 


A — Medical Benefits. 

Payments to State Govts, etc., as 
CJorporatkra’s share of their expenses 
on providing medical treatment, ma- 
ternity facilities, etc. 

Total A — Medical Benefits . 


B — Cash Benefits. 

(1) Sickness Benefit 

(2) Extended Sickness Benefit 

(3) Maternity Benefit 

(4) Disablement Benefit . 

(5) Dependants’ Benefit . 
Total B — Cash Benefits 


C — Other Benefits. 


Rs. 


RS. 


3,13,20^00 


3,00,13,000 

10.85.000 

18.04.000 
71,00,000 

12.70.000 


3,13,20,000 


4,12,72,000 


(1) Provision of Artificial limbs . 

(2) Medical Boards 

(3) Fees paid for post-mortem exa- 

mination of insured persons 

(4) Payments to insured persons on 

account of conveyance charges 
&/or loss of wages . 

(5) Cott of artificial teeth provided 

to insured persons - 

(6) Grant-in-aid .... 

(7) Miscellaneous .... 
Total C — Other Benefits 

Total i — Benefits to Insured persons 
and their famles , . . 


40,000 

79k»o 


29.000 

1,000 

15.000 

74*030 

2,38,000 

7*28,307000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15. 1884 [Part U 




10,14424,000 


2. Administration Expenses. 

A — Superintendence. 

(i) Corporation, Standing Committee, 


Regional Boards, etc. 

30,000 


(2) Principal Officers 

1,62,000 


(3 ) Other Officers 

9,61,200 


(4) Ministerial Establishment . 

32,72,800 


(5) Class IV Servants 

7,11,000 


(6) Contingencies .... 

18,71,200 


Total A— SupsaOTENBEN-CE . 


694)8,200 

B —Field Work. 

(1) Officers ..... 

1*40*200 


(2) Ministerial Establishment . 

33,96,500 


(3) Class IV Servants 

5,99,600 


(4) Contingencies .... 

9,19,700 


Total B — Field Work . 


50,56,000 

C — Other Charges. 

(1) Legal Charges .... 

1*12,000 


(2) Insurance Courts 

404x30 


(3) Publicity & Advertisement 

25,000 


(4) Charges for maintaining Bank- 

mg Accounts .... 

20*000 


(5) Audit Fees .... 

40*000 


(6) Repair, Maintenance and Depre- 

ciations, etc 

(7) Miscellaneous .... 

52,300 


31,000 


Total C — Other Charges 


3*20,300 

Total 2 — Admekistratjon Expenses . 


1,22,84,500 

Interest on Loans : 

Interest paid to the Employees’ State 

Insurance Provident Fund 

1,30,000 


Less Interest realised on investments of 

Provide! Fund balances • ■ . 

(— ) 18,500 

I 3 II,SOO 

T otal Expenditure on Revenue Account 

To excess of Income over Expenditure 

c/o to Balance Sheet 


1,61,98,000 

Total - 


10, L4, 24,000 


(T. P. Khosla), 

Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees 5 State Insurance Corporation. 


Total 


Sec. $(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1517 



ElvtPLOYEES’ STATfe INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Balance Sheet as on 31st March , 1962 (Estimates) 


LIABILITIES 


AMOUNT 


ASSETS 


AMOUNT 


Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 
Provident Fund 


Lot*} and P>uildirtgi . 

(a) Buildings for effuse of the Corpora ■ 
tion. 


A a per last balance sheet 

Add Amount credited during the year . 

35 . 98,677 

12 , 36,000 

As per last balance sheet 

Additions during the year 

25 * 93,935 

15,00,000 

40,93,935 

Less Payments made during the year . 

Deposits of securities c,g. by Contractors 

As per last balance sheet • 

48 , 24,677 

3,00,000 

37,851 

45,24,677 (fe) Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

As per last balance sheet 

Additions daring the year 

68,20,926 

203,85,000 

2,72,05,926 

Add Deposits during the year 

Less Deposits repaid during the year 

40,000 

77,851 

40,000 

(e) Equipments for Hospitals etc. 

As per last balance sheet 

Add Payments made during the year ■ 

37,851 

19,015 

31,00,000 

31,19,015 

Other Deposits . 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Deposits made during the year . 

13,010 

1,90,000 

Purchase of Staff Cars. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Additions during the year 

40,704 

15,000 

55,704 

Less Payments made during the year 

Depreciation Reserve Fund of buildings for 
the office of the Corporation 

As per last balance sheet 

Add Proivion made during the year 

(Includes Rs. 1,900/- on account of 
interest received from investments 
during the year). 

2,03,010 

1,90,000 

1*09*225 

11,400 

Loans to State Governments. 

• 13,010 Permanent Advance to the Heads of 

Offices of the Corporation 

A s per Last balance sheet . 

Add Payments made during the year 

1,20,625 

Less Recoveries made during the year 

Advance of Pay on transfer to the 
employee s of the Corporation ■ 

14*231 

3,000 

17,231 

800 

25,00,000 

16*431 


Depredation Reserve Fund of equipments 
in Hospital & Examination Centres : 

As per last balance sheet. . . 5,992 

Add Provision made during the year . 7,100 


Depredation Reseme Fund account of 
Hospital Buildings. 

As per last balance sheet . . . 2,181 

Add Provision made during the year . 1,000 


Depredation Reserve Fund account of 
Staff Cars. 

As per last balance sheet . . . 3,085 

Add Provision made daring the year . 6,200 


Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
buildings for the offices of the Corpora- 
tion. 

As per Last balance sheet . - . 91,1(4 

Add Provision made during the year . 32400 


(Includes Rs. 2,600/- on account of 1,23,564 

interest received from investments 
of the balance and Rs. 1,300/- on 
account of Gain on realisation of in- 
vestment). 

Less Payments made during the year . 26,000 


Permanent ( Partial & Total ) Disablement 
Benefit -Reserve Fund. 

As per last balance sheet . . 1,25,14,982 

Add Provision made during the year . 45,52,000 


1,70,66,982 

(Includes Rs. 4,62,000/- on account of 
interest received from investments 
of the balance;. 

Less Payments made daring the year . 11,96,000 


As per last balance sheet . . 4436 

Add Payments made during the year 40,000 


13,092 


Less Recoveries made during the year 

Advance of T-A. on transfer to the em- 
ployees of the Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Payments made during the year . 

3,i8l 


Less Recoveries made during the year - 

Advance for purchase of conveyances to 
the employees of the Corporation 

9,285 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Payments made during the year . 


Less Loans received during the year . 

Miscellaneous advances to the employees 
of the Corporation {festival advances ) . 
As per last balance sheet 
Add Payments made during the year . ' 


97,564 Less Recoveries made during the year • 


Advance payments on behalf of State 
Governments. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Paymetns made during the year . 


Less Recoveries made during the year . 

Advance to the Bank for pnerchase of 
1,58,70,982 securities. 


44436 

40,000 


5,330 

40,000 


45,330 

40,000 


65,194 

1, 00,000 


1,65,194 

65,000 


17,111 

1,80,000 


i,97,m 

1,80,000 


4,362 

2,500 


6,862 

3,000 


4436 


5,330 


1,00,194 


17,111 


3,862 


Sfc. 3(ti)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1519 



I 


2 


Rs. 

Dtpsndan d Benefit Reserve Fund. 

As par last baLao.ce sheet . . . 3945,8 96 

Add Provision made during the year . 14,15,400 

(Includes Rs. 1454.00/- on account 5341,296 

of interest received from investments 
of the balance). 

Less Payments made during the year . 549,000 

Income and Expenditure Account 

Excess of Income over Expenditure 

* lst sheet . . . 2042,29440 

Add Balance of excess of income over 
expenditure during the year 1961- 


1,61,98,000 


3 4 5 6 


Rs. Pa. Rs. 

As per last balance sheet ... 

Add Payments made during the year 2,07,67,100 

Less Adjustments made during the year 2,07*67,100 


47,92496 


Miscellaneous Advances 


As per last balance sheet. . 

Add Payments made during the year . 

1,90,568 

2,00,000 


Less Receipts during the year . . 

3,90,568 

2,00,000 

1,9^568 

Remittances. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Debits adjusted during the year . 

66,500 

8,7140,000 


Less Credits adjusted during the year . , 

8,71,86,500 

8,7140,000 

66,500 

Investments at cost. 

(a) Depredation Reserve Fused of 
buildings for the offices of Cor- 
poration. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Investments made during the year 

1*02,353 

n>400 

GI 3.753 

( 4 ) Depredation Reserve Fund Account 
of equipment in Hospitals & 
Exarstmation Centres. 

As per last balance sheet. . 

Add Investment made during the year 

1400 

7,100 

8,500 

Depredation Reserve Fund Acc- 
ount staff cars invesisnent Acc- 
ount ..... 


6400 


j520 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 6, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


ie ) Depredation Reserve Fund Ac- 
count of Hospitals buildings. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Investments made during the 

year ..... 

1,000 

1,000 

(d) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve 
Fund buildings for the offices of 
the Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet 

Add Investment during the year 

86,088 

14,000 


Less Realisation on maturity of sale 
of securities .... 

IjOOjOSS 

12,700 

87,388 

(e) Permanent (Partial & Total) Dis- 
ablement Benefit Reserve Fund. 



As per last balance sheet 

Add Investments made during the 
year ..... 

93,66,723 

31,22,000 

1,24,88,723 

(/) Dependants' Benefit Reserve Fund. 

As per last balance sheet. . 

Add Investments made during the 
year ..... 

29,92,691 

9,25,000 

39,17,691 

Caris Balance. 

(a) Investments: 

(i) E.S.I.C. Provident Fund. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Investments during the year . 

31,18,337 

9,26,000 


Less Realisation on maturity err sale 
of investment .... 

40,44,337 

6,300 

40,38,037 

its) General Cash Balance. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Investments made during the 
year ..... 

19,18^2,574 

6,60,43,400 

25,78,75,974 



Seo, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 3, 1902/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 X521 




Rs, Rs. Rs. 

Lets Realisation on maturity or sale of 

investments .... (— >7,51,02,900 18*27,73,074 

(B) Cash Balance. 

Cash in hand and with bankers . 50,96,425 

24 , 59 , 09^03 Total 24,59,09,803 


(T. P. Khosla), 

Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees' State Insurance Corporation • 


1522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1062/VALSAKHA IB, 1884 [Part If 



INCOME 


Head of Account 


EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Income and Expenditure Account for the Year ended 3 ut March, 1963 (.Estimate) 


Amount 


Head of Account 


EXPENDITUF E 


Amount 


By Contributions: — 

Employers’ share only 
Employees’ share only 
Total Contributions - 
Other Heads of Revenue 
Interest and Dividends 
Compensations 
Rents, Rates & Taxes . 

Fees, Fines & Forfeiture 
Miscellaneous . . . 

T otal other heads of Revenue 


4,05,49,000 

5,92,99,00c 


75*25,500 

13,000 

2,200 

1,35,300 


9,98,48,000 


76 , 76,000 


I. Benefits to insured persons and their 
families. 

A — Medical Benefits. 

(t) Payments to State Govts, etc. as 
Corporation’s share of their expen- 
ses on providing medical treat- 
ment, maternity facilities, etc . 

(ti) Medical treatment & care and 
maternity facilities (expenses 
incurred direct by the Corpora- 
tion) Expenditure on Health 
Education Scheme 
Total — A — Medical Benefits . 

B — Cash Benefits. 

1. Sickness Benefit .... 

2. Extended Sickness Benefit 

3. Maternity Benefit 

4. Disablement Benefit 

5. Dependants’ Benefit 
Total B — Cash Beneffis. . 

C — Other Benefits. 

1. Provision of Artificial limbs. . 

2. Medical Beards .... 

3. Fees paid for ost-mortem examination 
of insured persons 

4. Payments to insured persons on acc- 

ount of conveyance charges and 'or 
loss of wages .... 

5. Cost of artificial teeth provided to in- 
sured persons .... 

6. Grant-in-aid .... 

7. Miscellaneous . 

Total C — Other Benefits. 

Total-Benefits to insured persons and their 

families ..... 


5,49,22,000 


78,000 


3,16,24,000 

11.42.000 

19.63.0 00 

8511.000 

1 6. 1 0.000 


45.000 

92.000 


36.000 

1,000 

20.000 

87.000 


5,5000,000 


4,48,50^00 (I 


2,81,000 

10,01,31,000 


Sf.c. 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 



2. Administration Expenses. 
A — Superintendence. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


1. Corporation, Standing Committee, 

Regional Boards, etc. . ... 

2. Principal Officers .... 

3. Other Officers .... 

4. Ministerial Establishment 

5. Class IV Servants, 

6. Contingencies .... 

Total A— Superintendence . . 

B — Field Work. 

1. Officers 

2. Ministerial Establishment 

3. Class IV Servants, 

4. Contingencies , . . . 

Total B — Field Work. 

C — Other Charges. 

1. Legal Charges .... 

2. Insurance Coorts .... 
3- Publicity & Advertisement 

4. Charges for maintaining Banking 

Accounts. .... 

5. Audit Fees . 

6. Repair, Maintenance & Depreciation 

eta 

7. Miscellaneous .... 

Total C — Other Charges , 

Total 2 — Admuustratitm Expenses 


40,300 

1,76,000 

11.15.00 0 

37.90.000 
6,71,400 

27,03,800 


2,00,700 

43.34,700 

7,60,800 

12,01,200 


1 , 10,000 

50^00 

80.000 

25.000 

50.000 

70400 

5,000 


84,96,500 


64,97400 


3,90400 

1 , 5344,100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Pa*t II 


Total : 


iwinrt on ioarii 

Interest paid to the Employees’ State 
^Insurance Provident Fund 
Less. Interest realised on investments 
of Provident Fond balances . 

Total Expenditure on Revenue Account . 
To excess of Expenditure over income 
C/o w to ^Balance Sheet. 


i, 50,000 

( — )i8>IOO 


1,31,900 

11,56-47,000 

C— )8 1^3,000 


10,750^,000 


Total 


10,75,23,000 


TJ*. Khosla, 

Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 


J(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VA1SAKHA IS, 1884 1525 


EMPLOYEE’S STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Balance Sheet as at 3 m March, 1963 (^Estimates) 


LIABILITIES 


AMOUNT ASSETS 


AMOUNT 


Rs. 

Employees'' State Insurance Corporation 
Provident Fund. 

As per Last balance sheet . . . 45,24,677 

Add Amount credited daring the year . 13,80,000 


59,04,677 

Less Payments made daring the year . 3,08,000 


Deposits of Securities , e_g. by contractors. 

As per last balance sheet 

Add Deposits received during the year 

37>85I 

40,000 

Less Deposits repaid during the year 

Deposits received from other parties. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Depredation Reserve Fund of buddings for 
the offices of the Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Provision made during the year . 

77*851 

40,000 

1,20,625 

1*1,400 

(Includes Rs. 1,900/- on account of in- 
terest accrued from the investment 
of the balance). 

1,32,025 

Depredation Reserve Fund account of 

equipment in Hospitals and Examina - 
tion Centres. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Provision made during the year . 

13,092 

5,000 

Depredation Reserve Fund account of 
Hospitals buildings. 


As per last balance sheet . 

Add Provision made during the year . 

3,181 

1,000 


Rs. 

Lands and Buildings. 

(a) Buildings for offices of the Corpo- 
poration 

As per last balance sheet . 
Additions during the year 
55,96,677 (i>) Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

As per last balance sheet 
Additions during the year 
(c) Equipments of hospitals . 

As per last balance sheet . 
Additions during the year 


Rs. 


4 °, 93>935 

25.00. 000 

2,72,05,926 

3,54,70,000 

315191.015 

20.00. 000 


Rs. 


65593=935 

6,26,75,926 

51,19,015 


37,851 Purchase of Staff Cars : 

As per last balance sheet . 

13,010 Additions during the year 

Loans granted to the- State Gaels. 

As per last balance sheet 
Add Payments made during the year . 

1,32,025 

Permanent Advances to the Heads of 
Offices of the Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Payments made during the year 

Advance of pay on transfer to the em- 
ployees of the Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Payments male during the year 

18,092 


Less Recoveries made during the year . 


55,704 

30,000 


25,00,000 


16,431 

10,000 


4,436 

35,000 


39436 

35,000 


85,704 


25,00,000 


26,431 


4,436 


4,181 


to 

0\ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part IJI 



depredation 1 teserv* Fund account of 

Staff Cars. 

As per last balance sheet . . . £>285 

Additions during the year . . 6,200 


Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fu>.J 
of buildings for the offices of ike Cor- 
poration 

As per last balance sheet. . . 97,564 

Add Provision made during the year . 51,200 

(Includes Rs. 2,700/- on account of in- 1,48,764 

terest accrued from investment of the 
balance). 

Less Expenditure on repairs during the 

year ...... 22,000 

Permanent ( Partial & Total) Disablement 
Benefit Reserve Fund. 

As per last balance sheet . - . 1,58,70,982 

Add Provision made during the year 56,87,500 


(Includes Rs. 5,37,500/- on account of 2,15,58,482 
interest accrued from investment of 
the balance). .... 14,65,000 


Dependants’ Benefit Reserve Fund. 

As per last balance sheet ■ ■ 47,92,296 

Add Provision made during the year . 17,75,000 

(Includes Rs. 1,65,000/- on account of 65,67,296 

interest accrued from investment of 
the balance). 

Less Payments made during the year - 


6,91,000 


5,330 

40,000 


15*485 


Advance of t-A. cm transfer to the em- 
ployees of the, Corporation. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Payments made during the year L . 


45.330 

Less Recoveries made during the year . 40,000 


Loans to the employees for the purchase , 

af conveyances. 

As per last lalance sheet - . 1,00,194 

Add Payments made during the year . 1,10,100 

2,10,194 

Less Loans recovered during the year . 80,000 

1,26,764 House building Advances. 

Payments made during the year 
Miscellaneous Advances to the employees 
of the Corporation (festival advances') 

As per last balance sheet. 17,111 

Add Payments made during the year . 2,00,000 

2,17,111 

Less Recovered made during the year . 2,00,000 

2,00,93,482 

Advance payments on behalf of State 
Government 

As per last balance sheet • - . 3,862 

Add Payments made during the year . 2,500 

, 6,362 

Less Adjustments made during the year 2,500 


58,76,296 

Miscellaneous Advances. 

3,19,13,863 As per last balance sheet - 

Add Payments made during the year 


1,90,568 

2,00,000 


1,30,194 


t.17.111 


Less Adjustment made during the year 


3,9°,56S 

2,00,000 


1,90,568 


8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 /VAISAKHA IB, 1884 



I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Income and Expendtifure Account 

Excess of Income over Expenditure as 
per last balance sheet . 

Less Excess of expenditure over income ’ 
during the year 1962-63 . . ( 


Rs. 

22,0^27,240 
■) 81,23,000 
21,23,04*240 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Remittances. 

As per last balance sheet . . - 66,500 

Investments at Cost. r 

(a) Depredation Reserve Fund of buildings 
for the offices for the Corporation. 

21,23,04^40 


r As per last balance sheet . . . 1,13,753 

A ^Investments during the year . 11*400 


[b) Depreciation Reserve fund account of 

equipment in hospital and examination centres 
As per last balance sheet . . . 8,500 

Add Payments made during the year ■ 5,coo 


Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 


As per last balance sheet . . . [6,200 

Add Payments made during the year . r 6,200 

Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospital 

buildings 

As per cast balance sheet 1,000 

Add Payments made during the year . I i,oco 


id) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Fund 
of holdings for the offices of the Corporation 
As per last balance sheet . . . 87,388 

Add Investments during the year • 6*400 


(c) Permanent ( Partial & Total) Dis- 
abletnetd Benefit Reserve Fund. 

As per last balance sheet . 

Add Investments during the year 


1,24,88,723 

33,56,000 


if) Dependants’ Benefit Reserve Fund 
As per last balance sheet 

444 Invwtmspt during the yen 


3SM7.69I 

8,66,500 


Rs. 

66,500 

1,25,153 

i3,5«> 

12*400 

2,000 

93-788 

1,58*44,723 

4734.IPI 


1528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Paw IF 




Total 


24,42,18,103 


Cash Balance. 

(a) Investments : 

(t) E. SJ.C. Provident Fund. 

As per last balance sheet . . . 40,38,037 

Add Investments during the year . 10,72,000 

51,10,037 

Less Realisation on maturity or sale of 

investment ..... ( — ) 2,700 

(u) General Cash Balances. 

As per last balance sheet . . . 18,27,73,074 

Add Investments during the year . 3,41,22,400 


5i.07.3J7 


21,68,95,474 

Less Realisation on maturity or sale of 
investment ..... ( — ) 8,11,704x0 

13,57^5.474 

(b) Cash Balance 

(in hand and with bankers) . 50,40,525 

Total . . - 24,42,18,103 


T. P. Khosla, 
(27-12-61) 

Chief Accounts Officer, 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation. 


fee. !(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 6, I962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: may 5 , 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 

APPENDIX I 

EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Number of employees and family units covered and to be Mend utdtr the sc hen i if to 

31st March, 1963 


Name of place 


Insured Persons 

Date of Number Number Date of 

implemen- already to be coverage 

tation covered covered of 

families 



Andhra State Region 

Hyderabad and Secunderabad .... I-I-55 t8,ooo .. 26-1-59 

Ncllimarla, Chittivalasah, Vijayawada, Eluru, 

Guntur, Vishakhapatnam & Manglagirl . . 9-ro-j5 15,350 .. 26-1-59 

Warangal 15-11-59 5,500 . . 14-2-60 

Sirpur 27-3-60 11,000 .. 26-6-60 

Adoni and Kakinada . . . . , 14-8-60 6,000 .. 13-11-60 

Vizlanagram 19-11-61 . . 800 1-3-62 

Kurnool, Dolaiswaram, Rajahmandry, and Reni- 

gunta 1-12-61 .. 4,200 t-3-62 

Guntakal and Mancherial . .... 1-4-62 .. x,8oo 1-7-62 

Sriramnagar, Tannku Masulipatnam . . 1-0-162 .. 2,300 1-1-63 


Assam Region | 

Gauhati, Tinsukia, Makum, Dhubri, and Dibrugarh 3 28-9-58 1 4,200 .. 28-12-53 

Merlani, Jorhat & Marghcrtta .... g 1-10-62 1,900 ^ 1-1-63 

Digboi ........ k, i-t -63 • • 3,000 


Bihar Region 

Patna, Monghyr, Katihar & Samastipur . . 15-12-57 ^ 13,100 .. 2-10-58 

Dalmianagar, Banjori and Japla .... 27-3-60 ■ 9,850 .. 26-6-bo 

Dhanbad & Kumardhobi area .... 28-8-60 16,000 .. 27-11-60 

Muizaffarpur, Ranchi, Khalarl,Jharia,Badaninagar 1-1-62 .. 8,300 1-4-62 

Morho-warah & Bausjora 
Bhagalpur, Golmuri, Domchanch, Indra Nagar, 

Gnatsila and Banlstdih ..... 1-1-63 .. „ 16,700 


Delhi, Region 

Delhi 1 24-2-52 1 61,000 .. 6 1 - 7-59 


Gujarat Region 


Ahmedabad 


t 1-1-63 


} 1,65,000 



Sjec. fl(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

: MAY !i, 19G2/VAISAKHA 

15, 1884 

1531 

X 


2 

3 

4 

5 

Kerala State Region 





Allsppsy< Quilon, Trichur & Alwaye 

. 

16-9-56 

29,600 


1-7-62 

Ernakulam, Alagapanagar and Udyogamandal 


16-9-56 

6,100 


1-1-63 

Trivandrum ...... 


31-8-58 

3,200 


25-11-61 

Kohzikodc and Feroke . 


12-7-59 

14,000 


1-1-63 

Fort- J ).:nin 3c Mattancherry area 


3-1-60 

3,200 


1-1-63 

Canrianorc, Balipatam & Tcllichcrry . 


30-10-60 

6,700 


1-1-63 

Punalure and Kottayam .... 


29-7-61 

4.400 


1-1-63 

Falghat ...... 


25-11-61 


2,400 

1-1-63 

Perumubavoor ..... 


19-11-61 

. . 

1,200 

1-1-63 

Kun iara and Koratti- Angadi 


r-1-62 


11,300 

1-1-63 

Ottanalam, Shoranur & Chathannur 


1-4-62 


1,800 

1-1-63 

Attingal Kottarakara, Kallcttunkara, Karuvannur 





and Umauanaliore .... 

* 

t-10-62 

• ■ 

6,450 

1-1-63 

Madhya Pradesh Region 




Tndorc, Gwalior, Ujjain & Ratlam 

. 

23-1-55 

56,000 


26-1-59 

.Burhanpur . . . 


2-9-56 

3,500 


15^2-59 

Jabalpur ... . 


29-9-57 

4,500 


26-1-59 

Bhopal and Nagda ..... 


27-9-59 

7,800 


27-12-59 

Rijnandgaon ...... 


25-9-60 

3,200 


25-12-60 

Mandsour and Dcwas .... 


27-S-61 

i,75o 


27-11-61 

Banmore ...... 


29-10-61 

650 

. . 

29-1-62 

Satna ....... 


1-12-61 


1,500 

1-3-62 

Riigarh, Raipur, Kymore & Kami . 


26-1-62 


7,000 

26-4-62 

Korba ...... 


26-11-61 


650 

1-1-63 

Ncpanagar ...... 


1-10-62 


1,500 

1-1-63 

Madras State 




Goimbatore ...... 


23-1-55 

49,500 


1-10-62 

Madras City ...... 


20-11-55 

62,000 

, , 

1-7-62 

Madurai ...... 


28-10-56 

22,000 

, t 

1-1-63 

Ambasamudrgm, V.S. Puram & Tuticorin 


28-10-56 

10,500 


1-4-62 

Salem Udumalpct and Tirupur 


30-11-58 

14,500 


2-9-61 

Mottur 


30-11-58 

4,000 


1-4-62 

Peelamedu, Pcrianaickenpalayam 


28-2-60 

5,5co 



Sivakasi and Rajapalayam 


28-2-60 

8,500 


15-8-61 

Dalmiapuram ..... 


27-3-60 

2,000 


15-8-61 

Trlchu, Ranipet & Cauverynagar 


29-1-61 

6,350 


1J-8-61 

Dindigul ...... 


1-10-61 

1,800 

, 

1-1-62 

Suburbs of Madras .... 


1-10-61 

400 



Koilpatti ...... 


1-3-62 


4,5oo 

I-6-62 

JJsilampatti, Avadi & Kambakonam . 


1-1-62 


4,250 

1-4-62 

Tirunalvelli and Talayuthu 


25-ti-6r 


3,500 

25-1-62 

Suburbs of Coimbatore .... 


29-10-61 


5,000 


Pudukottai and Nameswamudram 


1-1-62 


1,700 

1-4-62 

Erode, Pollachl, Vauiyambadi, Gudlyatham and 





Shencottah ..... 

* 

1-10-62 


5,250 

r 1-1-63 

Maharashtra Region 




Greater Bombay 


3-10-54 

' 5,50,000 


I-I-62 

Nagpur ...... 


I 1 - 7-54 

) 22,000 


22-12-60 

Akola ....... 


27 - 5-56 

5,300 


I-5-6I 

Hinganghat 


27-5-56 

3,200 


19-10-61 

Sholapur , . , ... 

* 

1-1-63 


18,000 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part IJ 


1532 


I 2 3 4 5 


Mysore Renton 


Bangalore ...... 

27 7-58 

67,000 


26-10 58 

Hubli 

27-3-60 

2,000 


26-6-60 

Dandeh 

8 1-61 

2,200 


9-4 61 

Mangalore , ... 

26-11-61 


6,400 

26-2-62 

Mysore 

1-1-62 


4 , 5 °o 

1-4-62 

Gulbarga, Devangerc, Gokak, Belgaum and Shah- 
abad ....... 

1-10-62 


17,600 

1-1-63 


Orissa Region 


Cuttack) Barang, Chaudwar, BrajrtJnagar and 

Rajgangpur . 31-1 60 

Narangarh and Barbil . 1-3-62 

Hirakud, Bclpahar & Tapang (Puri) . . 1-1-63 


23)000 


1-5-60 
i 5 roo 1-6 62 
2)500 


Punjab State and Himachal Pradesh Pcgicn 


Amritsar, Chhehrata, Batala, Yamunanagar, Jullun- 
dur, Ludhiana, Ambala, Bhns am, Voika & 
Jagadhri 
Khasa 
Dhariwal 
Hissar 
Soncpat 

Kharar .... 

Bhiwani Jon-Pal ..... 
Fandabad . . ... 

Phagwara, Kapurthala & Gobindgarh 
Abohar, Surajpur, Pampat, Dalmia-Dadrl, Goraya 
and Gurgaon ...... 


17 - 5-53 

46,000 


1-11-58 

io-j -59 

500 


9 8-59 

29-n 59 

3,000 


28-2-60 

8-i-6l 

1,500 

. . 

9 - 4-61 

19 2-61 

2,500 

, 


17-9-61 

1,800 

, 

17-12-61 

3 - 9-61 

100 

. 

3-12-61 

1-1-62 

. 

[ 7,000 

1-4-62. 

1-4-62 


1 6,500 

1-7-62 

1-10-62 


6,000 

1-1-63 


Rajasthan State Region 


Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Pabmarwar 
Bhilwara . 

Lakheri .... 
Beawar 

Swai Madhopur 
Snganganagar & Dholpur 
Udaipur and Bharatpur 
Ajmer and Kotah 


2-12-56 

15,800 

. 2-IO-58 

2-12-56 

1,800 

. I-6-6I 

27-10-57 

4,000 

. . 2-10-58 

2-3-58 

L 2,500 

. . 2-10-58 

29 - 3-59 

2,600 

28-6-59 

14-8-60 

L 750 

.. 13-11-60 

1-4-62 


1,000 1-7-62 


Uttar Pradesh Region 


Kanpur Including Kalyanpur 
Saharanpur, Agra and Lucknow 
Allahabad, Varanasi and Rampur 
Bareilly, Hathras, Ahgarli and Shikohahad 
Ghazlabad, Sahjanwa (Gorakhpur), Modirrgar 
and Mirzapur 

Meerut, Firozabad & Moradabad 
Izatnagar, Jhansi & Roorkee 
Hapur, Harangaon, Churk & Gazipur 


24-2-52 

8o,cco 


14-11-59 

15-1-46 

24,CCO 


14-11-59 

31-3 57 

I 7 i 2 CO 


14-11-59 

30-3-58 

1 1235CO 


I 4 -II-J 9 

29 - 3-59 

I 2 j 5 CO 


I 4 -II-J 9 

26 - 3-61 

5 ,CC 0 

, 

25-6-61 

1-12-61 

, 

2 300 

1-3-62 

1-7-62 


2,850 

1-10-62 



Mo, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1533 , 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

West Bengal Region 




Calcutta City & Howrah Distt. , . . 

Area within the jurisdiction of Shyampur Police 
Station In Uluberia Sub-division District How- 
rah 4 ...... 

Rest of Greater Calcutta (Distt. of Hooghly and 
24 Parganas) ...... 

14-8-55 ' 

5-6-60 

1-10-62 

^2,85,000 

3,50,000 


Grand Total 


16,87,600 

6,88,150 




1534 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY a, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


APPENDIX 
EMPLOYEES’ STATE 
Djtaih of Incam* and 




Head- 

quarter* 

Andhra 

Assam 

Bihar 

Bombay 

Delhi 



Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Ris 








RECEl 

fimployers' share , . 

• 

• 

7 . 31.243 

52,294 

96,803 

1,19,69,437 

8,09,196 

Employees' share . . . 


. 

6 , 93,906 

25,227 

46,943 

i r ao, 72 , 83 i 

15,06,653 

Mitcellaneous . . 


. J 0 .J 7 3 «J 

2.393 

17 

396 

46.338 

3,844 

Total — Receipts 

• 

. fjo, 17 , 36 ? 

'14.32.542 

75,538 

1 , 44.144 

3,00,88.646 03.19,693 







EXPENDITURE 

Medical Benefit 

« 

• 

3.30.83a 

a. 

1 , 71.137 

66.78,809 

0,65,000 

Cath Btntflij 








Sickness Benefit. , , , 



4,35,310 

-- 

40,877 

79 , 93,210 

’ 6 , 97,034 

Extended Sickness Benefit . 


• • a 

7.304 


421 

3.38,986 

19,890 

Maternity Benefit . . , 


* a * 

51.819 

a- 

553 

4 , 41,474 

6,605 

Disablement Benefit . 


a ■ • 

60.493 

676 

13,038 

20 , 48,795 

2 , 48,493 

.Dependants' Benefit , 



9,000 

.. 

a* 

3 , 74,500 

77 ,ooo 

Total — Cash Benefits . 


a * * 

5.63.906 

676 

59,091 

1.11,96,975 

10,49,022 

Other Benefits .... 



403 

5 

27 

49,876 

11,646 

Total — Benefits 


• » * 

9.15.163 

681 

2 , 30,255 

i,79,05,6B0 

. 13 , 25,668 







administration 

-Administration Expenses , 

a 

. I4,3E,9o9 

1,81,015 

12,320 

40,391 

, 8 , 53,749 

3 , 19,576 

Total— Revenue Expenditure 

a 

. 14.34,909 

10,96,178 

13 001 

0,10,646 

1 . 97 , 79,429 

16,45,344 


TOTAJv— REVAMPS EXPHtfOiruftlJ 


S*C. 3 (ii)] 

THE GAZETTE OF 

INDIA : 

MAY B, 

1962/VAISAKHA 

15, 1384 

i 53 y 

II 

INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Hxp*ndiutrt far tht year 1958-59 








Karala 

Madhya 

Pradeah 

Madnu 

Mysore 

OrlMH 

Punjab 

Rajas- 

than 

Uttar 

Pradesh 

Weat 

Bengal 

Toul 

R*. 

R*. 

Rj. 

Ri. 

R». 

R,. 

Rj. 

Ra, 

R«. 

R*. 

ITS 

106 

9,70,003 

11,81,524 

10,09,221 

15,813 

6,38,011 

1,85,634 

16,39,715 

79,18,071 

3,90,14,081 

6,61,367 

16,15,166 

37 . 39.025 

8,63,106 


8,91,117 

4,16,319 

25,92.731 

69,80,497 

3 , 81 , 11 , 950 ' 

676 

2,730 

7,299 

1,653 

*. 

I. 3 I 3 

653 

3,775 

16,989 

31 , 45.441 

12,71,149 

ij, 87,89s 

. 60,18,848 

i 8 , 73 , 98 o 

13.813 

'15,31,441 

7,02,636 143,36,111 

1 , 49 , 15,557 

7,22,81,472 

BENEFITS 

3 , 05,000 

11,13,000 

19,43,719 

[5,99,818 

5,342 

3 , 73,489 

13 . 53 .000 

1 8,83,000 

38,02,515 

1,68,46,691 

4.87,051 

io. 39,455 

"34,40,800 

59 


1,36,157 

ELl. 43.363 

11,69,753 r31.91.u3 

1 . 79 , 78 , 393 - 

10,071 

14,657 

47,880 



2,137 

T 3.993 

16,951 

1 80,192 

5,64,482 

99,442 

67,108 

1,79,346 

.. 


2,208 

18,850 

4,167 

54.473 

10,26,047 

64.073 

12,09,009 

3,60,609 

34,916 

■■ 

73,146 

34.765 

2 , 94,712 

7,25,744 

40,70,969 

11,500 

65,000 

52,500 

10,500 


45,000 

10,500 

1,24,000 

1,52,000 

9 . 31.500 

6,71,338 

14,05,119 30,81,135 

45.475 


3,58,84a 

1,15,471 

17,19.583 

43,03,622 

2,45,71,391 

1,406 

3,581 

8,016 

59 

.. 

4,589 

137 

4,144 

14,771 

97,763 

9 . 78,744 

15,10,811 

30,34,880 

6.43,361 

5 , 34 i 

6,36,926 

5,68,398 

26,06,817 

81,10,908 

4,15,13,845; 

EXPENSES 

1,69,961 

1,60,410 

6,16,171 

1.83,739 

1,193 

1 . 92,749 

1 , 34,888 

6,14,348 

12 , 37,435 

71,74,963 

11,48,706 

17,81,131 

36,61,151 

8,19,101 

6,534 

8,29,675 

7,03,486 

32.31,175 

93,38,343 

4,87,90,810- 


1J 53<S THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1952/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


appendix 

EMPLOYEES’ STATE 

Dilaih of Incrrmi and BxptndUurt 


Held 

Andhra 

Assam 

Bihar 

Delhi 

Gujarat 

Keruls 


quarten 








Es. 

Rs. 

R«. 

Rj. 

Re. 

R». 

Rs. 








RBCE 

■Employer!' Shuts .... 

*- 

7,08,441 

1 . 40,497 

11 , 39,566 

8,88,088 

12,06,196 

6,63,631 

"Bmployote* Share 

.. 

7,73.467 

97,156 

4,08,411 

16,34,402 


9 , 04,270 

, "Miscellaneous , . 4 

39,72,871 

3,703 

91 

1,313 

4,602 

767 

1,313 

Total — R ucums 

39 , 71,871 

14,86,611 

1.37,844 

16,69,300 

25 , 27,110 

12,06,963 

15,69,247 







EXPENDITURE 

iMftdlcaJ Benefit! # 

, . 

8 , 43,714 


3 , 02,711 

11 , 46,242 


9,11.463 

Cash Bhnmtj 








59Icknc§* Benefit , 

.. 

3,14,847 

10,784 

1,39,531 

8 , 35.371 

•• 

7 , 41.538 

^Extendad Sickness Benefit 


7,831 

388 

4,193 

31,758 


11,466 

'Maternity Benefit 


82,038 


1,702 

6,293 


1,17,881 

‘Diublcment Benefit 



3,384 

I 2 , 2 3 9 

4,74,22a 

.. 

80.314 

rDependentt* Benefit 

e. 

3, 600 


. . 

13,700 

.. 

14,000 

Total— Cash Bun m is 


7 , 19,439 

14,756 

1,57,766 

13 , 54,350 

.. 

9,76,200 

"Other Benefits .... 


1,940 

170 

130 

10,658 

■■ 

5,34* 

Total Bsnbfiii , , 


15.63,093 

14,916 

4,60,607 

*5,11,150 

•• 

I*. 93 , OH 







ADMINISTRA 

Administration Bxpcnm 

M, 76 ,d 63 

1 , 15.469 

59,407 

1,09.164 

3.33.150 

65,544 

2,76,01 0 

Total — R jtyiNO* EtPHNDmiJit 

10 , 76,463 

17,90,561 

84,333 

5,69,771 

18 , 44,300 

T 65.544 

21,69,011 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, H162/VAISAKHA 15. 1834 1537 


m 

INSURANCE CORPORATION 

for thi year 1959-60 1 


Madhya 

Pradesh 

Madras 

Mahara- 

shtra 

Mysore 

Orissa 

Punjab 

Rajas- 

than 

Uttar 

Pradesh 

West 

Bengal 

Toul 

R*. 

Rj. 

Rb. 

Rs* 

R,. 

Rb. 

R». 

R», 

Rl. 

Rb. 

IPTS 

9,51,890 

26,28,237 

1,09,98,965 13,04,863 

92,674 

6.96,439 

1,38,180 16,81,810 

73 , 94,233 

3 , 18 , 53,731 

17,94.291 

39,78,109 

1,81,95,900 

16,35,484 

13 » 3 H 

9,07,250 

4 , 38,315 

31 , 30.445 

67,96,021 

4,08,09,232 

4,130 

9,450 

45,973 

1,588 

1,204 

1,290 

1,217 

5,558 

20,081 

60,74,181 

2', 50,3111 

66,15,896 

2,92,40,838 

29 , 41,935 

1,07,189 

16,04,979 

6,77,922 

49,17,813 1,41.10,333 

7 , 87 , 37,164 

BBNBFITS 

17,38,439 

21 , 09,755 

60,81,033 

10,90,000 

1,04,816 

3,29,968 

6,41,000 

19 , 44,853 

34,84,000 

2,19,28,014 

11,47.615 

t 2 ?.I 5,059 

91 , 34,931 

■7,43,640 


1,76,569 

1 , 91,199 

13,84,902 

36 , 46,949 

2 , 15 , 93,937 

28,646 

61,617 

3.43,639 

9.951 


4,040 

1 , 6,299 

38,858 

179,320 

6,20,316 

r 73,183 

3,74,013 

5,50,860 

"51,815 

. . 

3,036 

21,777 

3,049 

58,733 

13 , 39,490 

3,10,212 

4,05,826 

19,64,653 

1,07,401 

243 

1,65,743 

60,163 

3, 12, 018 

9 , 07,376 

39 , 14.923 

11,613 

1 , 04,997 

6,96,100 


. * 

40,700 

7,903 

67,181 

47,737 

10 , 10,541 

I 5 . 7 t 379 

38.61.531 1 38.90,183 

9,13,807 

*43 

3,92,088 

1,87,341 

I 3 ,o 5 ,oi 3 

47 , 40 ,U 5 

3,04,99,307 

2,590 

.n ,773 

65,648 

3,884 

. i 

1,704 

940 

6,954 

11,341 

i : 

4 ) is 403 1 

4 j, 25 d 19336,834. 1*27,091 

t. 25, 039 9,21,760 

9,19,181 37,57.815 81,46,457 

5.25.61,302 


TION-BXPBNSBS 

3, 37, Mi 8,05,597 19,53,090 1 51,399 95 051 1.09 *74 7,54,964 7,41.317 14,30.649 90,85,011 

4S, 53.171 67,97.657 3,1 7 , 49,947 11,59,030 1,50,110 11,31,634 10,84,245 45,00,131 90,36,106 6,16,46,323 


1538 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAK.HA 15, 1884 [Part ir 

APPENDIX 


EMPLOYEES* STATE 
Dt trill of Incomt and Expindf 



Head- 

quarters 

Andhra 

Assam 

Bihar 

Delhi 

Guferat 

Kerala 

Madhya 

Pradesn 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Ri. 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs 









RECH 

Employers' Share 


■ 8,72,3m 

1,67,114 

16,20,161 

19,76,372 

33 , 73,417 

8,08,611 

12,84,779- 

Employee*' Share 


13.15,766 

1,05,160 

8,34,060 

18,88,226 


12,50,654 

23,82,138 

Miscellaneous 

67,35,971 

8,248 

255 

1,053 

5,733 

596 

3,917 

7,984 

Total . 

67,35,972 

21,96,315 

2,72,629 

24 , 55,274 

28,70,331 

33 . 73,013 

20,63,162 36.74.90r 








EXPENDITURE 

Medical Benefit . 


13,16,938 

3,00,000 

12,45,000 

15,74,883 


3 , 88,531 

21,32,364 

Cash Bbnuhts 









Sickness Benefit , 


6,20,651 

58,309 

1,52,613 

9 , 45,204 

*■ 

10,06,175 

13,16,641 

Extended Sickness 

Benefit 


8,834 

2.034 

6,687 

33,364 


18,949 

39,802 

Maternity Benefit 


75,743 

147 

1,241 

9,705 


2,07.480 

81,059 

Disablement Benefit 

.. 

1,21,776 

23,448 

36,477 

3,92,243 

-■ 

98,594 

0 , 99,273 

Dopendantj* Benefit 


16,900 

13,100 

10,400 

33,900 


9,200 

70,300* 

Total— Cash Bbnbmts 


8 . 43,904 

97,038 

1,07,418 

14,16,4x6 


73,40,398 

18,07,017 

Other Benefit* 

5,003 

3,313 

692 

375 

to, 226 


5,297 

5,521 

Total BronwtTs 

5,000 

21,64,155 

3 , 97,730 

14,52,793 

29,41,525 

• • 

19,34,226 

39 , 45 , 7 oj 







ADMINISTRATION 

Administration Expenses 

"21,47,555 

2,88,668 

61,190 

2.17,916 

3,50,748 

80,112 

3, 48 , 318 

3 , 78 , 7 X 14 

Total— Revenue Ex- 
penditure 

ai,ji,J 55 

24,52,813 

4 , 58,920 

16,70,719 

33,93.173 

80 ,II 2 

22,82,344 43,33,820 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 ^39 


IV 

INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Ture for year 1960-fii 


Madras 

Maharanh- 

tra 

Mysore 

Orissa 

Pan jab 

1 

Rajasthan 

Uttar WcBt Bensfll 

Pradesh 

Tot al 

Ra. 

R«, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Ra. 

Rs. 

IPTS 

31.56,277 

1,14,04,838 

17 , 78,478 

2,84,846 

8,24,177 

r2.92.139 

21,98,610 

83,20,879 

3,73,62,109 

34,79,262 

2 , 11 , 29.323 

20 , 07.394 

3 , 80,440 

11,71,756 

5,66,843 

38,33.198 

77.61,903 

5,01,07,123 

7 .IJ 4 

51.447 

4,857 

450 

2.354 

I. 4 I 7 

18,260 

20,458 

68,70,155 

86,41,693 

3,25.85,608 

37 . 90,729 

6,65,736 

19,99,287 

8,60,399 

60,50,078 

1,61,03,240 

9,43,39,387 

BENEFITS 

20,03,024 

64,89,403 

12,72,294 

1 , 49,000 

8,40,161 

5,84,000 

22,40,622 

41,90,865 

2,48,67,285 

34,03,138 

1,01,11,261 

9.37,149 

38,8l8 

2 , 13,300 

1 , 93,255 

17 , 57.153 

41,02,522 

2,48,76,290 

70,030 

4.17,967 

17,169 

426 

9.404 

12,211 

57,294 

1,08,775 

8,02,946 

4,39,461 

5 , 44,314 

61,330 

1.773 

3,096 

25,088 

5,652 

59,612 

15,15,702 

4.42,144 

29,16,083 

[1,40,314 

60,743 

2 . 03,995 

69,306 

3 , 78,695 

11,58,321 

63,41.365 

65,700 

5,02,200 

33,900 

6,300 

19,000 

14.700 

1,30,000 

2,43,850 

11,73.450 

44 ,^ 0,574 

1,44,91,816 

11,89,872 

1,18,060 

4,48,795 

3,14,560 

33,28,794 

56,75,081 

3.47,09,753 

15,498 

69,776 

4,996 

456 

4 , 6 ir 

740 

7,975 

28,367 

1,62,844 

64.39,096 

2,10,51.005 

24,67,161 

2 , 77.516 

12,93,567 

8 , 99,300 

45 . 77.391 

98,94,313 

5,97,39,882 

EXPENSES 

7 , 84,662 

10,47,565 

ri, 9 I ,809 

1,10,438 

2,23,496 

1,74,138 

7 ,i 8,874 

18,09,127 

T, 00 , 43, 343 

72.23,738 

2,30,98,370 

27.58,971 

3 . 97,954 

15,17,063 

10 , 73,438 

51,96,265 

1,17,03,440 

6,97.83.223 



1540 


THE, GAZETTE OE INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


APPENDIX 

EMPLOYEE’S STATE 
Rmtstd Eitimatst (Budftti) /neom* & 


Head of 
account 

Head- 

quarter* 

Andhra 

Assam 

Bihar 

Delhi 

Gujerat 

Kerala 

Madhya 

Pradesh 


R«. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Re. 

Rl. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

R». 








RECBI 

Employer* ’ Share 4 

.. 

9*29,000 

1,83,500 

20,58,000 

10,42,000 

34,70,000 

8,40,000 

13,88,000 

Employee*’ Share 


ri4.8o.ooc 

1,01,000 

13,00,000 

20,00,000 


14,70,000 

24,25,000 

Miscellaneous 

77,20,500 

4,350 

100 

4,500 

6,500 

1.350 

4,000 

5,500 

Total 

77 , 20,500 

24,13,350 

2,84,600 

33 , 63.500 

30,48.500 

34,71,350 

23,14,000 

38,18,500 








EXPENDITURE 

Medical Benefit . * 


16,76,000 

1,32,000 

16,67,000 

13,22,000 


8,60,000 29,78,000 

Cash Bunbmts 









Sickness Benefit . . 


8,38,000 

75,000 

4 , 25,000 

11,00,000 


11,40,000 

16,75,000 

Extended Slcknett Bene- 
fit ... 

. , 

18,000 

3,000 

13,000 

45.000 


30,000 

57.000 

Maternity Benefit 

.. 

82,000 

1,000 

16,000 

10,000 


2,73.000 

80,000 

Dliablement Benefit 

.. 

1,31,200 

21,000 

76,500 

4,26,000 

. . 

1,24,000 

3,85,000 

Dependants' Benefit 

< . 

24,000 

10,000 

33 ,ooo 

39,000 

. . 

9.000 

75,000 

Total — Cash BBNmrrs 


10,93,200 

1,10,000 

5.63,500 16,20,000 

.. 

15,76,000 

22,72,000 

Other Benefit* 

15,000 

3,700 

900 

1,300 

10,400 

- 

7,300 

6,000 

Total — Bbnxfits . 

15,000 

27,72,900 

2,42,900 

22,31,800 

31.52.500 


44,43,306 

52,56,000 







ADMINISTRATION 

Administration Expense* 

2 i.aS. 6 oo 

4 , 34.700 

1,01,500 

3,63,700 

4,50,300 

3,02,100 

4,90,000 

4,83,900 

Total — Rbvsntte Ex- 

PSNDITURB 

ai. 43 . 6 oo 

32,07,600 

3,44,400 

25 . 95,500 

36,02,800 

3,02,100 

29,33,300 

57,39,9oo 




INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Esp&ndituTt for : 96 1 -fia. 


Mttdffli 

Maharash- 

tra 

Mysore 

Orissa 

Punjab 

Rajasthan 

Uttar 

Pradesh 

West Bengal 

Total 

R«. 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

R«. 

FTS 

35,40,000 

1,22,00,000 

16,67,800 3 , 51,700 

9,37,000 

3,70.000 

24,27,000 

83,00,000 

3 . 97 . 68.000 

62,50,000 

» l 2X«35 l ooe» 

23,00,000 

3,20,000 

13,30,000 

6,76,000 

38,15,000 

78,55, 0 00 

5 . 38 , 57.000 

7,200 

61,700 

9,oco 

500 

!* 2,900 

2,200 

5.700 

23,000 

78,59,000 

97,97,^00 

1,43,96,700 

41,76,80) 

3,76,200 

22,69,900 

10,4^,200 

62 , 47,700 

1,61,78,000 

10,14,24,000 

BENEFITS 

34,00,000 

(72,53,000 (16,16,000 

3,00,000 

13,60,000 

7 . 55,000 

33 , 24,000 

42.73,000 

3,13,20,000- 


46,33,000 

i,i6,oo,oor 

*1,00,000 

1,74,000 

2 , 79,000 

2,55,000 

23,80,000 

43 , 37,000 

3,00,13,000 

1,23,000 

5.15,000 

21 , 02 C 

4,000 

I 2 . 0 C 0 

14,000 

81,000 

1, 47,000 

10,85,000 

6,00,000 

S.'fiOiOCO 

74,000 

7,000 

5,000 

25,000 

6,000 

63,000 

18,04,000 

5,44,000 

30,87.000 

1,74,000 

72,000 

2,98,000 

75,000 

4,10,000 

12,76,000 

71,00,000 

65,000 

5 , 59,000 

27,000 

18,000 

37,000 

11,000 

1,16,000 

2 . 47,000 

12,70,000 

59,69,000 

i, 63 ,». 3 O 0 

13,96,000 

1.75,000 

6,31,000 

3,80,000 

29,93,000 

60,72,000 

4,12,72,000 

17,000 

1,22,100 

5,000 

2,900 

4,500 

1,500 

6,300 

34.100 

2,38,000 

[■93,86,000 

2 , 36 , 98.300 

30,17,000 

7 , 77,900 

19 . 95,500 

11,36,500 

63,23,4°° 

1,73,81,000 

7,28,30,000 

EXPENSES 









11,28,700 

23 , 74,300 

4.47,000 

1,53,800 

3 , 27,500 

2,14,700 

10,63,700 

19.31.500 

1,23,96,000 


1,05,14,700 1,60,72,600 34,64,000 9,31,700 23,13,000 13,51,200 


73.87,100 1,23,11,500 8,52,26,000 


1542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


VI 

INSURANCE CORPORATION 
Expinditurt ) for 1961-63. 


Madras Maharaah- Myeore Orissa Punjab Rajasthan Uttar West Bengal Total 
tra Pradeah 


Rs. 

Ra. 

Ra. 

Rs. 

Rfl. 

Ra. 

Rb. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

PTS 

f38, 00, 000 

1,21,00,000 {17,48,500 

3,62,500 

9,90,000 

3,80,000 

24 . 45 ,ooo 

85,00,000 

4 , 05 , 49 *C 0 C 

^66, 50,000 

2,22,70,000 

28,00,000 

5,60,000 

16,00,000 

6,99,000 

139 , 00,000 

1,02,00,000 

5,92,99,00* 

7,100 

[63,100 

f 9,700 

. 700 

3,200 

1,500 

5,800 

29,000 

76,70,000 

r, 04 *J 7 .ioo 

3 * 45 , 33,100 

45,58,200 

[9,23,200 

25 . 93*200 

10,81,500 

63,30.800 

1,87,29,000 

10 , 75 , 24 , 00 c 

BENEFITS 

48,00,000 

2,23,00,000 

22,00,000 

5,25,000 

|i8,oo,ooo 

I 7 , 75 . 00 ° 

33,00,000 

50,00,000 

5,50,00,000 


48,00,000 

1,24,00,000 1 11,50,000 

[1,77,000 

[3,18,00 0 

I 2,65,000 E 

24*10,000 

43 , 37 , 00 c 

3,16,24,000 

1,40,000 

5,25,000 

23,000 

| 5,000 

13,000 

16,000 

82,000 

1,50,000 

11,42,00c 

6, jo, 000 

5,70,000 

82,000 

9,000 

7 ,ooo 

28,000 

7,000 

70,000 

15.63,0003 

6,00,000 

34,12,700 

2,15,000 

76,000 

3,32,000 

84,000 

4,z,2,0OO 

17,80,000 

Sj.ii.o'o 

.. xrf 

78,000 

5 ,$ 0,000 

50,000 

8,ooo 

30,000 

17,000 

'.12,40,000 

4,40.000 

16,10,000 

62,68,000 

1, 74,86,700 

15,20,000 

2 , 75 .ooc 

7,00,000 

4,10,000 

30,81,000 

67,77,00c 

4.48,50,000 

1 21,000 

1 , 37 , oco 

6,000 

4,000 

5 * 7 oo 

2,000 

7,500 

42,000 

2,81,000 

1,10,89,000] 

3 , 99 , 23,700 

37,26,000 

8,04,000 

35 . 05,700 

ii,B7,ooo 

63,88.500 

1,18,19,000 

10 , 01 , 31,000 

EXPENSES 









[11,61,500 J 25,78,500 

6,06,400 

| 1,84,000 

3,78,500 ' 

2,28,000 

10,41,600 

29,14,700 

l,jj, j6, 006) 

1,22,30,599 

4 , 25 , 02.200 

, 43 , 32,400 

9,88,000 

28,84,200 

14,13,000 

74,30,100 

1 , 47 * 39.700 

Il,j6,47,oorj[ 


Sec, 9(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAtSAKHA IB, 1884 


1543 







Budget < 

APPENDIX 

EMPLOYEES' STATE ] 

estimates ( Income and 

Head of Account 

Head- 

quartern 

Andhra 

Assam 

Bihar 

Delhi 

Guicrat 

Kerala Madhya 
Pradesh 


Rs, 

Rs. 

Ri, 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. Rs. 








RECEI 

Employers’ Share 

* 

9,50,000 

1,86,000 

21,07,000 

10,60,000 

34,70,000 

9,25,000 14,25,000 

Employees* Share 

. 

16, 23,000 

i, 35 ,ooo 

15,50,000 

20,50,000 

IO,QO,000 

17,85,000 24,73,000 

Miscellaneous 

- 75 , 29*500 

5,000 

200 

x,6oo 

6,500 

1,500 

4.3°° 6,300 

Total 

- 75 * 29,500 

25,80,000 

3,21,200 

36,58,600 

31,16,500 

44 * 71,500 

27,14,300 39,06,300 


EXPENDITURE 


Modicd Benefit , , [78,000 '11,00,000 1 1,11,000 21,00,000 [18,00,000 20,00,000 26,00,000 34,00,000 

Cash Benefits 


Sickness Benefit 


8,90,000 

75,000 

4,60,000 

11,50,000 


13,50,000 

18,42,000 

Extended Sickne** 

Benefit 

, , 

|i9,ooo 

4,000 

15,000 

50,000 


40,000 

60,000 

Maternity Benefit 


87*500 

500 

23,000 

10,000 


3,34,000 

85,000 

Disablement Benefit 

.. 

1 , 45,000 

37 ,ooo 

75,400 

4,50.000 

2,79,900 

1,63,000 

4,20,000 

Dependants’ Benefit 


22,000 

20,000 

24,000 

C40.000 

55.000 

l6,ooo 

96.000 

Total— Cash Bbnbfitj . 


11 , 63,300 

1,36,500 

5 , 97,400 

17*00,000 

3,34,900 

19.03,000 

24,97,000 

Other Benefits 

20,000 

3,900 

1,000 

1,700 

10*700 

1,000 

10,000 

T.Soo 

Total — ►Benefits 

93.000 

32 , 67,400 

3 , 59*500 

26,99,100 

35,10,700 

13,33,900 

45.13.000 

59,04.500 


ADMINISTRATION 


Administration Bxpen»e» 17,44,300 5,06,000 1,17.000 5,04,600 4,46,800 10,37,300 3,11,400 3,43,100 

Total — Kevfntjj Ex- 

PBNDITUBO . . 28,42.500 37,73,400 4,86,300 34,03,700 39.J7.500 33 , 73,200 50,24,400 64,49,700 



STATEMENT ‘B’ 

EMPLOYEES’ STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 
List of new places where the Scheme was anticipated to be extended in 1961-62 


SL 

No. State 

Centres 

No. of 
Employees 

For Insured Persons only 

Date of im- Actual or 
piemen ta Lion Anticipated 

originally date of kn- 

antidpated plementarion 

For famines of Insured Persons 

Date of im- Adtual or 
plementation antidpated 
originally date of im- 

anticipared plementatkm 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

I Aa 4 Hra .... 

. Rurnool and Rajmundhry 

(Revised 

2>40O 

1-4-1961 

1-12-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-3-1962 


Quntakal .... 

800 

1-4-1961 

1-4-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-7-1962 


Masulipatnam 

Soo 

1-4-1961 

1-10-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-1-1963 


Mancherial .... 

1,000 

1-10-1961 

x -4-1962 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1962 


Dolaiswaram & Renigunta 

1,800 

1-10-1961 

1-12-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-3-1962 

2 Eifjar .... 

. MuzafEarpur, Ranchi, Rhalari, 
Jhariaand Bansjora 

5,800 

1-4-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1962 


Ghatsila, Golmuri, Bhagalpur 
and Baniadih 


1-4-1961 

1-1-1963 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 


Donicha\mcb& Indranagar 

34 °° 

1-1-1962 

1-1-1963 

1-4-1962 

1-4-1963 


Jtyak-Phani and Kandra 

2,200 

1-1^1962 

Not anticipa- 

> -4- 1962 

Not anticipa- 

3 Gujarat 

. Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Rajkot, 
Morvi, Porbander, Wankaner 
and Surendra Nagar . 

iS,8oo 

1-7-1961 

ted 

Not antiripa- 

1-10-1962 

ted 

Not anticipa- 


Ahmedabad .... 

1,65,000 

26-1-1962 

ted ' 

(1-1-1963 

26-4-1962 

ted 

1-4-1563 

4 Kerala .... 

. Punalur .... 

2,000 

26-2-1961 

29-7-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-1-1963 


Kottayam .... 

2400 

1-4-1961 

29-7-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-1-1963 


Kundara .... 

10,000 

26-2-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 


Psrambavoor .... 

1,200 

1-4-1961 

19-11-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 


Koratti-Angadi 

1,300 

1-4-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 


Palghat ..... 

2,400 

1-4-1961 

25-11-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 


Sboranur . , . , 

800 

1-4-1961 

1-4-1963 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1684 



5 Madhya Pradesh ■ 


6 Madras - 

7 Maharashtra . 

8 Mysore . 

9 Orissa . 

10 Punjab . 

xi Uttar Pradesh 


Satna 


I;5«> 

1-4-1961 

1-12-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-3-1962 

Dewas . 


950 

x-4-1961 

27-8-3961 

1-7-1961 

27-11-1961 

Mandsour 


800 

1-1-1962 

27-8-1961 

1-4-1962 

27-11-1961 

Raigarh and Raipur 


1,900 

1-1-1962 

26-1-1962 

1-4-1962 

26-4-1962 

Kymore and Katni ■ 


5.100 

1-7-1961 

26-1-1962 

1-10-1961 

26-4-1962 

Nepanagar 


1,500 

1-7-1961 

1-10-1962 

1-10-1961 

1-1-1963 

Bantnore 


650 

1-1-1962 

29-10-1961 

1-4-1962 

29-1-1962 

Erode ; Pollachi, Vaniyambodi , 





1-1-1963 

Gudiyatham & Shencottah 

5,250 

1-10-1961 

1-10-1962 

1-1-1962 

Talaiythu 

. 

3,5oo 

1-10-1961 

25-11-3961 

1-1-1962 

25-2-1962 

Pudukottai 

. * 

1,700 

1-10-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-1-1962 

1-4-1962 

Savaranapatti and Madukari 

4,100 

1-10-1961 

Not anticipa- 
ted 

1-1-1962 

Not anticipa- 
ted 

Greater Bombay 


5,50,000 



1-10-1961 

1-1-1962 

Hinghanghat 


3,200 



31-3-1961 

19-10-1961 

Akola 


5,3oo 


1-1-1963 

31-3-1961 

1-5-1961 

Sholapur 


18,000 

1-4-1961 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1963 

Poona and Latur 


18,500 

1-10-1961 

1-4-1963 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1963 

Baxsiand Satara 


5,4oo 

1-10-1961 

Not anticipa- 

1-1-1962 

Not anticipa- 




ted 


ted 

Mysore ■ 

. 

4,500 

4-3-1961 

1-1-1962 

4-6-1961 

1-4-1962 

Mangalore 

» 

6,400 

1-7-1961 

26-11-1961 

1-10-1961 

26-2-1962 

Bhadiavati 

Gulbarga, Devangere, 

Gokak 

7,500 

1-1-1962 

1-4-1963 

1-10-1962 

1-4-1962 

1-10-1961 

1-7-1963 

1-1-1963 

and Shahabad. ■ 

• 

16,600 

1-7-1961 

Sambalpur 


1,500 

1-7-1961 

Not anticipa- 

1-10-1961 

Not anticipa- 




ted 


ted 

Sonepat 


2,500 

1-4-1961 

19-2-1961 

1-7-1961 

Not anticipa- 





ted. 

Faridabad 


7^00 

1-4-1961 

1-1-1962 

1-7-1961 

1-4-1962 

Kharar • 

. 

1,000 

1-5-1961 

17-9-1961 

1-8-1961 

17-12-1961 

Phagwara, Kapurthala & Go- 



1-4-1962 

1-10-1961 

1-7-1962 

bindgarh 

. , 

6,500 

1-7-1961 

Surajpur 

• 

1,300 

1-7-1961 

1-10-1962 

1-10-1961 

1-1-1963 

Izatnagar and Jhansi 

. 

1,500 

1-1-1962 

1-12-1961 

1-4-1962 

1-3-1962 

Mathura 

„ , 

1,200 

1-1-1962 

Not anticipa- 

1-4-1962 

Not anticipa- 




ted 


ted 

24 Parganas & Hooghly Distt. . 

3,50,ooo 

1-4-1961 

1-10-1962 

Not anticipa- 
ted 

Not anticipa- 
ted 


12 West Bengal . 



STATEMENT “C” 

BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR THE YEAR 1962-63 
Detatfs of ite amount provided under the Head — “Allowances Sc Honoraria'. 


Oi 



Travelling Allowance 

Dearness 

Allowance 

Dearness 

Pay 

House 

Rent 

Allowance 

ance 

City 

Compen- 

satory 

Allowance 

Non- 

Practising 

Allow- 

ance 

Reimbur- 

sement 

of 

Medical 

Charges 

Other 

items 

Total 

For to’ar 
including 
travel 
conces- 
sion 

For 

Transfer 

Convey- 
ance Al- 
lowance 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

IO 

II 

12 


Rs. 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 





A — SUPERINTENDENCE 





Principal Officers 

20 ; 5 OO 




.. 

10,900 

4,500 


600 


36,500 

Other Officers 

80,900 

19,500 

23J&00 

16,600 

12,500 

46,800 

38,900 

48,000 

18,600 

15,9C0 

3,21, 6co 

Ministerial Establish - 












ments . 

57,000 

19,400 


249,600 

800 

3,24400 

1 , 75,900 


49,100 

10,300 

8,66,500 

Class IV Servants . 

8,100 

4,100 


62,500 

300 

72,900 

34400 


15,200 

6400 

2,03,600 





B — FIELD WORK 






Other Officers 

8,100 

5,600 




5,700 

9,000 


6,000 

8,000 

42,400 

Ministerial Establish- 












ments . 

72,300 

35400 

27,900 

246,500 

3^000 

2,30,100 

123,000 


31,500 

7,300 













7,77,000 

Class IV Servants 

5,700 

4,900 


77,700 

4,700 

49,300 

24,700 


5,000 

4,600 

1,76,600 

Total 

2,52,600 

8^900 

51,800 

6,32,900 

21,300 

740,100 

4,10,100 

48,000 

1,26,000 

52,500 

24,24400 


[No. F. 4.(1) /62-HL] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 16, 1884 [Part II 



Sio, 5(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1834 


1547 


New Delhi, the 25th April 1962 

5.0, 1347.— In pursuance of clause (c) of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 4 
of the Employees' Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 the Central Government hereby 
nominates. In consultation with the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 
and organisation of employers in the State of West Bengal which has been reco- 
gnised for the purpose by the Central Government, Shri A. R. Foster as a mem- 
ber of the Regional Committee for the Stale of "West Bengal in the vacancy caused 
by the resignation of Shrx H. Mackay Tallack, and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, No. S.R.O. 1278 dated the 27th June, 1953, namely:-- 

In th/s the said notification, for entry (5), the following entry shall be substi- 
tuted, namely:— 

“(5) Shri A. R. Foster, C/o Imperial Chemical Industries (India) Private 
Ltd., 34, Chowrlnghee Road, Calcutta-16”, 

[No. 10/9/61-PF.IL] 

New Delhi , the 2 8th April 1962 

5.0. 1348/PW/Mines/Rules/AnL — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
sections ( 2 ), (3) and (4) of section 26, read with section 24 of the Payment of 
Wages Act, 1936 (4 of 1936), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules further to amend the Payment of Wages (Mines) Rules, 1P50, the same 
having been previously published as required by sub-section ( 5 ) of the said section 
26, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Payment of Wages (Mines) Amendment 
Rules, 1962. 

2. In the Payment of Wages (Mm ;s) Rules, 1956, for Form V, the following 
Form shall be substituted, namely: — 

fo- - "FORM V 

(See Rule 18) 

ANNUAL RETURN 

Return for the year ending 31st December. 

1 . (a) Name of the mine, location and postal address: — 


•+( 6 ) Name and address of the Manager/Contractor 


♦♦(c) Name of the Company/Firm owning the establish- 
ment and full address of its registered Office. 


♦•(d) Name and residential address of the Managing 
Agent/Director/Partner in charge of the day to da> 

affairs of the establishment . . . . 

♦*(«) Name and address of the person, if any, other than 
the Manager/Contractor, who is responsible for 
payment of wages in terms of the proviso to Sec- 
tion 3 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 

2 . Number of days worked during the year. 

♦3. (a) Number of man-days worked during the year: 

Persons receiving less than Persons receiving Rs. 200 /- 
Rs. 200 /- per month and more but less than Rs. 

400 /- per month. 


AdultB, 

Children. 


+( 6 ) Average daily No. of per- Persons receiving less than Persons receiving Rs. 200 /- 
sons employed during the Rs. 200 /- per month. and more but less than Rs. 

r 400 /- per month. 


Adults. 

Children. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part U 


(c) Gross amount paid as remuneration to persons getting less than Rs. 200 

per month including deductions under section 7(2,) is 

of which the amount due to profit sharing bonus is and that due to 

money valued of concession is 

(d) Gross amount paid as remuneration to persons, getting Rs. 200 and more 

but less than Rs. 400 per month including deductions under section 7(2) is 

of which the amount due to profit sharing bonus is and that due to 

money value of concessions is 

4, Total wages paid including deductions under section 7(2) on the following 
accounts: 


Persons receiving less than Persons receiving Rs. 200/- 

Rs, 200/- per month. and more but less than 

Rs. 400/- per month. 


(a) Basic Wages including 
overtime wages and non- 
profit sharing bonus 
( ft ) Dearness and other Al- 
lowances in cash 
(c) Arrears of pay in respect 
of previous year paid 
during the year 


5. Number of cases and amount realised as : 


Persons receiving less than Rb. Persons receiving Rb. 200/- 
200/- per month. and more but less than 

Rs. 400/- per month. 


No. of cases Amount No, of cases Amount 


(a) Fines 

(ft) Deductions for damage on] 
loss 

c)Deductions for breach of 
contract 

6. Disbursement from the fine fund. 

Purpose Amount 

<«) 

(b) 

(c) 

W 

7, Balance of fines fund in hand at the end of the year 


Signature 
Designation . , - 


♦This is the aggregate number of attendances during the year. 

tThe average daily number of persons employed during the year is obtained 
by dividing the aggregate number of attendances during the year by the number 
of working days. 

tMoney value of concessions should be obtained by taking the difference of 
the cost price paid by the employer and the actual price paid by the employees for 
supplies of essential commodities given free or at concessional rates. 

* ‘Strike off whichever is not applicable. 

[No. Fac. 49(34) (il)/59.] 

S.O. 1349. — In pursuance of clause (a) and (b) of sub-paragraph (1) of para- 
graph 4 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri K. L. Pasrlcha as Chairman of the Regional Committee 
for the State of Madhya Pradesh in the vacancy caused by the resignation of 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1 549 * 


Shri N. Sundaram, and Shri G. Narayan Swami as a number of the said Com- 
mittee, on the recommendation of the Government of the State of Madhya Pradesh, 
in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri G. K. Moghe, and makes the 
following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 2427, dated the 8th November, 
1958, namely: — 

In the said notification, for entries (1) and (3), the following entries shall 
respectively be substituted, namely: — 

“(1) Shri K. L. Pasricha, Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pra- 
desh, Labour Department, Bhopal. 

(2) Shri G. Narayan Swami, Director of Industries, Madhya Pradesh, 
Indore.” 

[No. 10|7|61-PF.II.) 

S.O. 1350. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal Mines 
Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby mak' j s the following Scheme further to amend the Coal Mines Bonus 
Scheme, published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour No. PF. 16(1) / 48, dated the 3rd July, 1948, namely: — 

1. This Scheme may be called the Coal Mines Bonus (Amendment) Scheme, 
1962. 

2. In the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the said 
Scheme), in paragraph 2, after clause (dd), the following clauses shall be- 
inserted, namely: — 


‘‘(ddd) 'Form' means a form appended to this Scheme.” 

“(ddd) ‘Illegal lockout’ means a lock-out which is illegal within thfr 
meamng of section 24 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1047)”. 

3 In the said Scheme, in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 6, for the words, 
brackets and figures, “leave (including sick leave) granted by the employer to 
an aggregate of 21 days in calendar year”, the words, brackets and figures leave* 
(including sick leave) granted by the employer to an aggregate of 21 days in a t 
calendar year or, where an employee has availed himself of earned leave (in- 
cluding accumulations), the actual number of days of such leave plus five days 
in a calendar year, whichever Is higher” shall be substituted. 

4. In th e said Scheme, in paragraph 8,— (a) for sub-paragraph (1), the follow- 
ing sub-paragraph shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(1) If a strike or a lockout takes place in a coal mine, the employer or 
any employee shall, in case he considers the strike or the lockout 
to be illegal, within 30 days from the commencement of the strike 
or the lockout, make an application to the Regional Labour Com- 
missioner (Central) having jurisdiction in the area in which the* 
coal mine is situated or to any other officer specified by the Central 
Government in this behalf, for decision whether the strike or the 
lockout, is legal or illegal.” 

(b) for sub-paragraph (4A), the following sub-paragraph shall be substitut- 
ed, namely: — 

“(4A). The Tribunal may, pending disposal of the appeal direct that the 
operation of the decision of the Regional Labour Commissioner or 
of the officer specified by the Central Government m this behalf 
as the case may be, shall be stayed”. 


5. In the said Scheme, in paragraph 11, after sub-paragraph (3A), the fol- 
lowing sub-paragraph shall be inserted, namely: — 

"(3B) An emnloyer shall from the 1st of July, 1962, issue a bonus card in 
Form XI for every quarter to each employee containing the name 
of the colliery, the name, designation, ticket number and Provident 
Fund Account number of the employee on the obverse of the bonus 
card. The bonus card shall bear the signature or thumb impress n 
of the employee which shall be taken at the tune the card is first 
issued to him, Every employee shall present the bonus 
employer at the time of payment of wages for each wage period and 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY fi, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


the employer shall arrange to give him a proper receipt therefor. 
Particulars attendance put in by the employee, allowance for leave, 
due to him under paragraph 8 and his basic earnings for the wage 
period shall be posted by a clerk of the employer on the reverse 
■of the bonus card and the card shall be returned to the employee 
■within 5 days of the payment of wages. Every employee shall again 
present the bonus card ' to the employer within 7 days after the 
end of the quarter to which the card relates and the employer shall 
arrange to give him a proper receipt therefor, The particulars of 
total attendance put in by each employee, the total allowance for 
leave, due to him under paragraph 6 his total basic earnings and 
the amount of bonus payable to him under this Scheme shall be 
posted by a clerk of the employer on the obverse of the bonus card 
and the card shall be handed over to the employee not less than 48 
hours before the payment of bonus for the quarter to which the 
particulars relate. 

Provided that where the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) is of the 
opinion that the bonus card maintained by an employer immediate- 
ly before the aforesaid date will serve the purpose, he may permit 
such employer to continue to maintain such card in lieu of the card 
to be maintained under this sub-paragraph.” 


6 . In the said Scheme, after Form X, the following Form shall be inserted, 
namely: — 


OBVERSE 

FORM XI— BONUS CARD 
[See Paragraph ii ( 3 B)] 

Name of the Colliery 

For the quarter ending 

Name of Worker .Ticket No 

Designation/Category of employee Provident Fund Account No. . . 

SignaturejThumb 
impression of the employee. 


Total attendances for the quarter 


Total allowance for the leave etc. 


T otal basic earnings 


Amount of Bonus payable 


Signature of the Colliery Official. 



Sf.c. S(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962 /VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1551 


REVERSE 


Weekending Shifts Worked Allowances for Basic Wages Initials of Pay 

leaves Rs, nP. Clerk 


Total 


Bonus Due 


Paid on 


Checked by 


[No. 12(03) /60.PF.I.J 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26 th April, 1962 

S.O. 1351. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 

of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to Messrs Krishna and Company, Madras and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS. 


Friday the thirteenth day of April, 

One thousand nine hundred and sixty two. 

(23rd day of Chaitra, 1B64, Saka). 


Present 

Sri K. Ramaswami Goundar, B.A„M.L., 

Industrial Dispute No. 10 op 1962. 

(In the matter of the Dispute between the workmen and the management 
of Messrs. Krishna & Co., Stevedores and Ship Chandlers, Madras). 


Between: 

The General Secretary, Madras Port and Dock Workers’ Union, 5, Pidariar 
Koil Street, Madras-1. 

and 


The Manager, 

Krishna and Company, 

Stevedores and Ship Chandlers, 

14, Jaffar Syrang Street, Madras- 1. 






1552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1 962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


.Reference: 

Order No. 28(15)/62-LRIV, of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
Government of India, New Delhi, dated 15th March, 1962, 


Issues: 

1. How far the demand of workmen for confirmation is justified; 

2. How far the demand for payment of an allowance to workmen detailed 

for outdoor duty is justified; 

3. What relief, if any, are the workmen entitled to. 

This dispute coming on for hearing on Thursday the 12th day of April, 1962, 
.and this day, upon perusing the reference, claim and counter statements and all 
other papers connected therewith, and upon hearing the arguments of Sri A. V. 
Kumar, General Secretary and Sri R. Rangaswamy, Vice President of the Union 
and of Sri M. R. Narayanaswamy and Sri P. Veeraraghavan, Advocates for the 
management and both the parties having reached a settlement and filed into 
oouri a memorandum thereof, the Tribunal pass the following: 


AWARD 

This reference raises for adjudication the demand for confirmation of over 100. 
workers employed in the harbour by the management of Messrs. Krishna and 
■Company, Madras, who are stevedores for some shipping companies. The wor- 
kers fall under certain categories, as stated in the Schedule to the Claim-State- 
ment It is unnecessary to set out the respective contentions of the parties, 
necause after an elaborate discussion, both parties have reached a settlement, the 
terms of which are as follows: 

(1) The Management of Krishna & Co., Stevedores, agree to treat the 
twentyone persons, whose names are given in the Schedule, annexed 
to this Memorandum as their confirmed employees, with effect from 
1st of April, 1962. 

,(21 As regards the emoluments payable to those twentyone persons, the 
present mode and system would continue, namely, sweepers would 
be paid at the rate of Rs. 2 (Rupees two only) per shift and the other 
categories of workmen at the rate of Rs. 3-6-0, (Rupees three and 
annas six only) per shift. Beyond the above payment, which is of 
a consolidated nature, they would not be entitled to any other emolu- 
ment FurSe?. they would be paid at the above rate, only for the 
actual number of days or shifts worked by them. They would not 
be entitled to any wages or any payment for the d ® 
they do not work or on which their services are not required. For 
those days, they are not entitled to any lay off compensation, etc. 

m For a neriod of two years from 1st of April, 1962, it is hereby agreed 
^ that neither the twentyone persons mentioned m the Schedule nor 
S Tride Union on their behalf, would put forward any demand 
for any wage increase or payment of compensation of any kind for 
days on which they could not be given work or fixation of any wag 

- fiaTS 

to the claim statement fiiedy the system would continue 

crease or for confirmation or permanency. 

«) I, is further .greed between 

W the twentyone persons mentioned m the schi ^ ^ refer _ 

employ additional workmen o officers of the Ships attended to 

ence as per the requirements *e offlcers^oi tne^ take tlie 

r^ne^orfiy from^Mnong^he^other workmeh mentioned in the annexure 
to the claim statement. 

<0) The above arrangement agr^d to between^ the w 1 ° 9 U 62i atVe 

STofwWcirtSpo^ SSdd'be reviewed and .ppr.pri.te deei- 
sions would he taken. 


Sfc, S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VALSAKHA 15, 1884 


1553 



(7) No person whether included in the list of confirmed employees or 

would have a right in normal circumstances to demand work 
more than one shift per day. 

( 8 ) Regarding Issue (2) (out-door duty allowance) parties agree to 

cuss the same out of court and reach a settlement. 

Schedule 

4 

not 

for 

dis- 

No. 

Name 




Category 


I 

Madhava Rao ..... 




Watchman 


2 

Vedachalam 




Do. 


3 

Palavam 




Do. 


4 

M. Ramakrishnan ..... 




. Clerk 


5 

C. M. Shanmugham .... 




Do. 


6 

M. Raiarathinam ..... 




Do. 


7 

V. Govindaswamy ..... 




Do. 


8 

Rathinam ...... 




. Carpenter 


9 

Doss ...... 




Do. 


10 

Manickam ...... 




Do. 


11 

Sh-shayya ...... 




Marker 


12 

John 




Do. 


13 

Gopal 




Do. 


14 

Rangaswamv ...... 




Do. 


14 

Subramani ...... 




. Stitcher 


16 

Vedachalam ...... 




Do. 


17 

Kanniah Naidu ..... 




Do. 


18 

Ellammal 




Sweeper 


T9 

Chellam ...... 




Do. 


20 

Mun'ammal ...... 




Do. 


21 

0. Muniammal ..... 




Do. 



There will be an award in terms of the above settlement. 

(Sd.) K. Ramasvvami Gounder, 

Industrial Tribunal. 

(True Copy) 

Illigible 

Head Ministerial Officer. 

[No, F. 28/15/62/LR, IV.] 
New Delhi, the 28 th April 1962 

S.O. 1352. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Labour Court, Guntur, In the matter of an application under section 33A of 
the said Act from a workman of the Associated Cement Company Limited, Kistna 
Cement Works, Guntur District. 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, LABOUR COURT, GUNTUR. 
Present.— Shri D. Govlndarajulu Naidu, B.A,, B.L., — Presiding .. Officer. 
Application No. 3 or 1962. 

Between, — Shri Wilson David, .Mazdoor, T, No. 603, Packing House Depart- 
ment, Kistna Cement Works (P.O.) — Petitioner. 

AND 

Associated Cements Companies Ltd., Kistna Cement Works, District Gun- 
tur, Andhra Pradesh. — Respondents. 

Appearances : 

Sri Vedula Jagannadha Rao, President, I.N.T.U.C., on behalf of the work- 
man, 

Sri R. H, Ranga Rao, Senior Personnel Officer of the Kistna Cement Com- 
pany, on behalf of the Management. 




1554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


AWARD 


By an order dated 14th December, 1961, of the Government of India, Ministry 
of Labour and Employment, the Petitions filed under Section 33(2) and 33(A) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by the workman and the Management of the 
Associated Cements Companies Ltd., Kistna Cement Works, Tadepalli, Andhra 
Pradesh, pending before the National Tribunal, Bombay, have been withdrawn 
from the file of the National Tribunal, Bombay, and transfer: ed to the Labour 
Court, *Guntur, constituted by the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment by notification dated 14th December 1961. 


This Application has been filed under Section 33(A) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, by the Petitioner— Workman against the Associated Cement Companies 
Limited, Krishna Cement Works, under whom he worked as a Mazdoor, in their 
Packing House Department. 


2. The facts which have led to the filing of this Petition are as follows: The 
Petitioner was working under the Respondent Company as a Mazdoor in the 
packing House Department. He was dismissed from service by the Respondent 
Company for disobedience of Orders relating to “Go-Slow”, in the discharge of 
his duties. This dismissal 'Order was passed while a dispute was pending bet- 
ween the Company and the workman regarding Bonus before the National Tri- 
bunal, Bombay. The Respondent — Company filed another Application No. 2 of 
1962, which is also before this Court, under Section 33(2) of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, praying for approval of their action in dismissing the Petitioner, Sub- 
sequent to the filing of this petition by the Respondent, the petitioner has filed 
the present Application. 


3, The averments in this Application are as follows: The enquiry conducted 
against the Petitioner was an exparte one, wherein the petitioner was not given 
reasonable opportunity to defend himself through an Office-bearer of the Union. 
Though the petitioner presented himself at the place of enquiiy along with his 
witnesses, he or his witnesses were not examined. While eleven other persons 
also were charge-sheeted by the Respondent-Company for alleged "Go-Slow” 
misconduct, they were let off with suspension, while this petitioner alone was 
dismissed from service. This dismissal was wrongful dismissal, actuated by 
motives, amounting to nothing short of victimization. The dispute pending be- 
fore the National Tribunal was one relating to Bonus. The misconduct alleged 
against the petitioner was one of Slow Production, which has every connection 
with the issue of Bonus. As such, the Respondent-Company should have taken 
prior permission from the National Tribunal before dismissing the Petitioner, As 
no such permission was obtained, the dismissal of the Petitioner was illegal. 


4. To this, the Respondent-Company filed a Counter to the following effect: 
The Petitioner was charge-sheeted lor "Go-Slow" tactics, along with eleven other 
workers. A proper and valid enquiry was held, and as the misconduct ol the 
petitioner was proved, he was dismissed. The other eleven employees 
awarded the punishment of suspension, as they attended the enquiry, admitted 
their offmec expressed regret, and promised to behave well in future, lne 
Petitioner on the other hand,, did not even give a reply to the charge-sheet framed 
against him. and also deliberately abstained from the enquiry, inspite of repeated 
advice, and ample opportunity given to him to participate in the enquiry, taking 
the assistance of a co-worker of his own choice. It is false to state, that he 
appeared at the enquiry with his witnesses, and that they were not examined. 
The dismissal order passed by the Company, was based purely on the evidence 
adduced at the enquiry, and no extraneous considerations prevailed. The Bonus 
dispute pending before the National Tribunal is in no way connected with the 
misconduct of ‘Go-Slow’, of which the petitioner was found guilty, 
dent Company therefore rightly filed the petition under Section 33 (2) of the 
Industrial disputes Act, for approval of thefraction In e^itione^ 

As such, there has been no contravention of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, by the Respondent-Company, and the petition filed by the Petitioner has o 

be dismissed. . , , . , ,v ■ 

5 As laid down under Section 33(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act, this 
Anniication No 3 of 1962, has to he adjudicated upon by this Court, as if it is a dis- 
nufe referred to or pending before it, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Fndustnaf Disputes Act, and an award to the appropriate Government am to be 



SFC. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 6 , 19G2/VAISAK1IA 15, 1884 1555 


Petitioner under Section 33 (A) is concerned, a preliminary objection was raised 
on behalf of the Respondent-Company to the effect, that the petition itself is not 
maintainable, in as much as the condition precedent, which alone entitles the 
filing of a Petition under Section 33(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act, viz., that 
the provisions of Section 33 have to be contravened; has not been fulfilled in the 
present case. 


6 In a decision reported in 1955 -I-L.L.J., page 346, it was laid down, that it 
is the contravention by the employer of the provisions of Section 33, that would 
give rise to a cause or action in favour of the workman under Section 33(A) of 
the Act It was also laid down, that the Authority to whom the complaint is 
made by the workmen under the above Section has to decide both the issues, viz., 
(1) the fact of contravention and (2) the merits of the act or order of the em- 
ployer In another decision reported in 1958T-L.L.J., page 793, it was held, that 
m an enquiry like the present one, under Section 33(A) two questions fall to be 
considered' Is the fact of contravention by the employer of the provisions of 
Section 33(A) proved? If so, is the order passed by the employer against the 
employee iusnfied on the merits? It was also observed, that if the first issue 
js answered against the employee, nothing further could be done under Section 
33(A) In the light of the above decisions therefore, the primary point that has 
to be determined is, as to whether there has been any contraventions under Sec- 
tion 33. o ^ the Act, to entitle the present Petitioner to file a petition under Sec- 
tion 33(A) The question fegarding the merits of the dismissal have only to be 
gone into, in case it is found that there has been a contravention, but not othei- 

wise. 

7. The contraventions under Section 33 of the Act so far as tVmv reini* +„ 

be 1 fore a tL a National lf TribuMf te H iS £ onnected with th « dispute that is pending 
u tne .National tribunal, Bombay, express permission of thn ^nthnri +37 

for Misconduct ifth^malf T Pl ° y6r before dismissing the workman 

xci misconduct. G i) H the matter is not connected, the dismissal of the work- 
man can only be done after paying the workman wages for one month, and after 
filing an application before the authority for approval of the action taken hv the 

^ P l° fl V t r An T Mm PreSel h t m ? tter fal , ]s » Secfion 33(2) of ?he act in vi^ew of 
the fact that the matter in question is not connected with the dispute pending 
hefoie the National Tribunal, Bombay. The Petitioner’s learned Representative 
argued however that though the matter pending before the National Tribunal 
Bombay, is a Bonus Dispute, in view of the dismissal of the present Petitioner 
bemg connected with charges relating to ‘Go-Slow’ misconduct, which has a 
hearing upon Bonus, it must be doomed that Section 33(1) applies to the present 
Case, and not Section 33(2), and that therefore, since the Respondent has not 
obtained prior permission of the Authority for dismissing the Petitioner there 
has been a contravention of Section 33, of the Act. 


8. It looks too far fetched and too remote to say, that the misconduct of ‘Go-Slow’ 
is connected with the Bonus dispute or has a bearing upon it. On the other hand, 
I think the Bonus dispute has no connection whatsoever with the ’Go-Slow’ mis- 
conduct. As such, as rightly argued by the learned representative for the Res- 
pondent It is section 33(2) that applies to the present case. As spell It has to 
be seen, whether there is any contravention of Section 33(2) of the Act. It is 
the Claim of the Respondent as seen from the Petition filed by the Respondent 
under Section 33(2) (Application No, 2 of 1962) that one month’s wag c-s have 
been sent to the petitioner by Money Order as he refused to receive it. So far 
as the other condition is concerned, the Respondent has filed Application No, 2 
of 1962, for approval of the action taken against the Petitioner. Under these 
circumstances, it cannot be said that there has been any contravention of Section 
33(2) of the Act, in order to give a right to the Petitioner to file the Complaint 
under Section 33(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act, I find therefore, that the 
petition filed by the Petitioner under Section 33(A). of the act is not maintain- 
able, in view of there being no contravention whatsoever of Section 33 (A) , of 
the Act, which is a condition precedent for enabling the petitioner to make a 
Complaint under Section 33(A) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


9. On a consideration of all the above, therefore, the petition filed by the 
Petitioner under Section 33(A) is liable to be dismissed. An Award is there- 
fore passed, dismissing the Claim of the Petitioner. The Parties are ordered to 
bear their own costs, in the circumstances of the case. 



1556 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 19G2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


10, This Award may now be submitted to the Government under Section 15 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Given under my hand and seal of this Court, this the 18th day of April, 1962, 

D. Govindarajulu, Presiding Officer. 

[No. 7/24/60-LRIV.] 
G. JAGANNATHAN, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 26 th April, 1962. 

S.O. 1353. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

CALCUTTA. 

Reference No. 10 of 1962 

Parties; 

Employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery. 

and 

Their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri L. P. Dave , — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

For the Employers .— Shri G. B. Pai, Officer of the Employers’ Federation of 
India. 

for the Workmen . — Shri K. B. Chougule. 

State: Madhya Piadesh. Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD. 

Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its order 
No. 2/300/60-LRII, dated the 3rd June, 1961, referred the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the Nowrozabad Colliery and their work- 
men in respect ol the question whether the dismissal of Shri Taj Khan was justi- 
fied and lawful and if not, what relief he was entitled to for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad. By subsequent order No. 4/90/61-LRTI, dared 
13th December, 1961, the proceedings in relation to the above dispute were with- 
drawn from the Dhanbad Tribunal and transferred to this Ti ibunal for disposal 
according to law. 

2. In response to notices issued bv the Dhanbad Tribunal, both the parties 
had filed their written statements before it. The matter relates to the dismissal 
of one .Shri Taj Khan who was working as Mining Sirdar at Nowrozabad Col- 
liery. The Management alleged that on 27th June, 1960. the said workman bad 
gone to the office of the Office Superintendent Shri Parikh and asked him whether 
the Accountant Shri Joshi had any authority to order that the payment to 
Dharamraj Singh should be stopped. Shri Parikh told him that Shri Joshi had 
the necessary authority and that Shri Joshi had acted under the instructions of 
Shri Parikh. Shri Taj' Khan then 'asked Shri Parikh whether the latter had any 
such authority and Shri Parikh replied in the affirmative. On this Taj Khan left 
the office with a threat that he would see. After this at a^out 12' 15 noon when 
Shri Parikh and Shri Joshi were going home on bicycles r for lunch, Taj Khan 
stopped them and caught hold of the handle of the bicycles of Shri Pankh and 
asked him why he had abused him, Shri Parikh denied having abused Taj Khan. 
Still Taj Khan did not leave the bicycle handle and Shri Parikh had to get down 
from the bicycle. Shri Taj Khan then pulled out the leather belt from the waist 
of Shri Parikh. A number of people including a clerk named Swamy and a 
Contractor named Pathak collected there. Pathak got Taj Khan release the 
handle of Parikh's bicycle and took him away from that place, Shri Pankh 
went to the Manager and gave a written complaint of what had happened. The 



SEC, 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 188-1 


him. Taj Khan P °eplied to theb^hargedieet 181 ^ ^inAL^d also SU3 P ended 
-Farikh’s office in the morning revnrrwTmii L: e ad f mt , ted having gone to Shri 
He however stated that Shri Sarikh asked him^ 1 ^ of ® hrl P ilar £inii’aj Singh. 
Khan told him that he would comolffin tn m leaVe *5,® °® ce md when Taj 
abuses. Taj Khan then stated th»t^ n a h° Manager, Parikh gave him filthy 

SflsSSl?lpSl?«l£ 

bmycT^he^idnZtt S SoH? 

nr , t ^ r ®M_? nlri 8 or assaulting him. The Manager asked the Administrative 

Suii*y t whm d Shri d ^ri^ eil ^ l ri e T qi ^' Accordingly, the said Officer held an 
enquny wnen ahn Faiikh, Shri Joshi, Shri Swamy and Shri Pathak vtere 

su PP or t of the chargesheet. Taj Khan was given an opportunity to 
m-ms examine these witnesses and he did actually cross examine them. Tai 
Khan was a so given an opportunity to examine witnesses in support of his 
version and accordingly he examined four workmen. After going through the 
entire evidence recorded before him, the Inquiiy Officer held the charge proved 
and recommended that Taj Khan should be dismissed. The Manager submitted 
the papers to the higher authorities and after obtaining necessary permission 
from them passed an order dismissing Taj Khan. This is the subject matter of 
the present reference. 


ed ParlkhT/^nfS ™ ir ^’ ritlel1 sta tement denied that Taj Khan had assault- 
er: ™ i ! Thp Mana S e ™ en t urged that he had done so. Copies of 

’J? 0 Enquiry have been produced before me and have also been 
admitted by both the parties. Neither party has led any evidence bet ore me. 


. Mw regarding the scope of adjudication and the powers of an Indus- 

tnal Tribunal when considering the dispute about a dismissal is now well settled, 
jn the case of Indian Iron and Steel Co., Ltd., and their workmen, 1958-1. L.L.J 
260, their Lordships of the Supreme Court have observed at page 270, “In cases 
of dismissal for mis-conduct, the tribunal does not (however) act as a Court of 
appeal and substitute its own judgement. It will interfere (i) when there is a 
want of good, faith; (ii) when there is victimization or unfair labour practice; 
(hi) when the management has been guilty of a basic error or violation of a 
principle of natural justice; and (iv) when on the materials, the finding is com- 
pletely baseless or perverse”. These principles have been followed in subsequent 
■cases. In the case of Doom Dooma Tea Co., Ltd., and Assam Chah Karmachari San- 
gha, 1960-11, L.L.J. page 56, the Supremo Court has reiterated these principles. It 
has also observed that normally the awarding of proper punishment for mis-con- 
duct under the Standing orders is the function of management, and unless there is 
valid justification the Tribunal should be slow to interfere with the exomisc of 
that function. These principles have again been followed by the Supreme Court 
in the cases of Titaghur Paper Mills Company, Ltd., and Ram Narcsh Kumar, 
1961-1, L.L.J. page 511, and Pui'e Drinks (Private! Ltd., v. Kirat Singh Maun- 
gatt and another, 1961-11, L.L.J. page 99. 


5. Bearing the above principles in mind, lot us now consider the facts of the 
present case and apply the principles thereto. It is not in dispute that two inci- 
dents took place on 27th June, 1960 The first incident took place in the morning 
in the office of the Office Superintendent Shri Parikh when Taj Khan went there 
in connection with payment to be made to one Dharamraj Singh. According to 
the evidence of Parikh which is supported by the Accountant Shri Joshi, what 
happened at the office was that Taj Khan questioned the authority of Joshi and 
Parikh to order stoppage of payment, but be was told that they had the said 
authority and he thereupon left the place after giving a threat. On the other 
hand, Taj Khan’s version is lhat Parikh became angry with him and asked him to 
leave the office and when he said that he would have to complain to the Manager, 
Parikh gave him a fllthv abuse. The second incident took place just after noop 
when Parikh and Joshi were going home on their bicycles. According to them, 
they were stopped by Taj Khan, who caught hold of the handle of Parikh s 
bicycle and asked him why ho had abused him; and though Parikh denied it, 
Tai Khan did not let go the handle of the bicycle. Parikh had to get down from 
the bicycle. Tai Khan then snatched the belt from the waist of Parikh. At that 
time some people including one Pathak collected there and intervened ana 
Pathak told Tai Khan that if he had anything to say, he could go to the Manager, 
he then took him away from that place. 



1558 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1902/VAISAKLHA IS, 1884 [Part re 


U. Before the Enquiry Officer Parikh and Joshi Rave their evidences and were 
cross-examined by Taj Khan. One Swamy who is an office clerk was near the 
place where the second incident took place and he was also examined in support 
of the charge against Taj Khan, Similarly a contractor named Pathak who went 
there on hearing the quarrel and who took away Taj Khan from the pluce was 
also examined. All these persons were cross-examined by Taj Khan. Taj Khan 
then examined four witnesses named Dadan Ram, Dharam Raj Singh, Tuffail 
Ahmed, and Habib in support of his version. The Enquiry Officer after consider- 
ing the entire evidence before him has held the charge proved. 

7. Shri Chougule, who appeared before me on behalf of the workmen, conten- 
ded that the evidence of Shri Parikh and Shri Joshi was that of interested wit- 
nesses and the Enquiry Officer should not, therefore, have believed them. He 
urged that Parikh was the person who had abused Taj Khan and Joshi was the 
subordinate of Parikh and it was in connection with Joshi's action In stopping 
payment that the dispute had arisen and Joshi was, therefore, bound to support 
the version of Parikh. In the circumstances he urged that the Enquiry Officer 
should not have believed either Parikh or Joshi, Shri Chougule then contended 
that so fur Swamy and Pathak are concerned they had not supported Parikh and 
Joshi in all respects and their evidences should not have been taken as proving 
the charge against Taj Khan. Lastly, he contended that the four workmen exa- 
mined in defence should have been believed so also the statement of Taj Khan 
and the Enquiry Officer should therefore have held that the charge against Taj 
Khan was not proved. 

8. As observed by the Supreme Court, the Tribunal is not sitting in appeal 
against the decision of the Management or the Enquiry Officer. The Tribunal has 
no power to substitute its own judgment or its own findings In place of the judg- 
ment or findings of the management. All that the Tribunal has got to consider 
is whether there was any want of good faith on the part of the Management, 
whether there was victimisation or unfair labour practice, whether there was a 
basic error or failure of the principles of natural justice and whether the finding 
was completely baseless or perverse. None of these things is established in the 
present rase. 

9. Believing a particular witness or not believing a particular wilness is a 

question of fact and not one of law. If the Enquiry Officer believed the evidence 
of Parikh and Joshi or if he disbelieved the evidence of other witnesses, it could 
not be said that his finding is perverse. Law does not require even in a criminal 
trial that there should be a particular number of witness nor does the law require 

that the evidence of the complainant would not by itself be sufficient to warrant 

a conviction. What has got to be seen is whether In the circumstances of the 
case that evidence should be believed or should not be believed. For instance, if 

a person is assaulted by another and if no one is present at that time, it cculcl 

not mean that the person who committed the assault could not be convicted on 
the sole testimony of the assaulted person. The surrounding circumstances would 
have to he looked into for considering whether the evidence should be believed or 
not. 

10. In the present case, there are several circumstances which could be said ter 
support, the charge against Taj Khan. Admittedly he did catch hold of the handle 
of the bicycle of Parikh. From the evidence of Swamy, it appears that Parikh 
called him out. This should support Parikh’s version that he shouted for help. 
Then the evidence of Swamy also shows that several people came there and that 
Pathak asked Taj Khan as to what the matter was and further asked him to go 
home, adding that if he had anything to say, he should go to the Manager and tell 
him. Swamy has also said that Pathak removed Taj Khan’s hand from the bicy- 
cle of Parikh with the help of his hands, Pathak’s evidence also shows that there 
was some quarrel and that Parikh anrl Taj Khan were speaking in a very loud 
tone. He has further said that Taj Khan's hand was on the cycle handle and that 
he went there and caught hold of Taj Khan and took him to his quarter. Pathak 
has further said that many people had gathered there and that Taj Khan and 
Parikh were talking very loudly and he felt it necessary to take away Taj Khan 
from there. The evidence of Dharam Raj Singh also shows that many people had 
collected there. Similarly the evidence of TuITail Ahmed and Habib also shows 
that there were many people there, that Pathak went there and that he brought 
Taj Khan with him and took him to his house. Taj Khan himself has admitted 
that Pathak came there and told him that whatever complaint he had to make 
he should make it to the Manager and that he should not argue there with Shri 
Parikh. 



"Sec. S(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


1559 


11. From all this evidence the Enquiry Officer could have come to the conclu- 
sion that there was a quarrel between Taj Khan and Parikh, 'hat Taj Khan had 
caught hold of the handle of Parikh’s bicycle, that the two were quarrelling In a 
loud voice, that many people had collected there, that Pathak had to intervene 
and to take Taj Khan away from that place after telling him that if he had any 
grievance he should inform the Manager about it. If in view of these circumstan- 
ces, the Enquiry Officer felt that the evidence of Puthak and Joshi should be 
believed, it could not be saicl that his finding was perverse. As I mentioned above, 

I am not sitting in appeal and I am not considering the question whether I would 
have arrived at a different conclusion. All that I have to consider is whether 
there was evidence before the Enquiry Officer from which it was possible for him 
to have come to the conclusion in a bonafide manner and I think that there was 
.sufficient material from which he could have come to that conclusion I therefore 
do not think that his finding is perverse. 

12. It was then contended that there was want of good faith and that it was a 
case of victimisation and of unfair labour practice. In this connection, Shri Chou- 
guJe contended that Taj Khan was victimised because he had joined the Union 
and because the Management felt that he might divulge their secrets to the Union. 
In the alternative, he contended that Parikh was in the wrong and with a view to 
save his skin, he made a false complaint with the help of Joslil. To understand 
these contentions a few facts may be stated here. 

1H, Shri Taj Khan was formerly the Vice-President of the Union uplo July 1957. 
It appears that he was dismissed somewhere in 1955-50 and his dismissal was one 
of the matters in dispute in the Reference 1 of 1956 before the Industrial Tribu- 
nal, Dhanbad, The said dispute was settled and an award was passed by the said 
Tribunal on 19-12-56 in terms of the settlement. It appears from the said award 
that Taj Khan had been re-instated with effect from 10-10-1956. Shri C.hougule 
admitted that Taj Khan ceased to be a member of the Union from July, 1957, 
but that he again became a member of the Union in the beginning of 19C0; he was 
however not an Office-bearer, It is said that there was some dispute between the 
Company and the workmen which was referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Bom- 
bay It is further said that Shri Taj Khan was helping the Management in that 
dispute and that he had gone to Bombay at the instance of the Company to give 
evidence before the Tribunal. The dispute was however settled and no evidence 
had to be recorded. It is urged that after this the Company wanted to get rid of 
Taj Khan, because they were afraid that he might disclose to the Union their sec- 
rets which he had come to know because he was helping the Company in the 
above dispute and that is why this false case was made out against him, 

14. It may be noted that Taj Khan has stated before the Enquiry Officer that 
he could not give any instance where he was harrased'by any Officer of the Com- 
pany. As I mentioned above, he had left the Union in July 1957 and again joined 
it only in the beginning of I960 and even then he was not an Office bearer. In 
the workmen’s written statement at page 6 (towards the end of para 2), they 
have stated, “we have reasons to believe that the Management had thought that 
Shri Taj Khan was not a member of the Union and that since he had sided with 
the Management, the Union may not take up his case and so they could conve- 
niently victimise him by dismissing him and thus get rid of a person who knew 
many secrets of the Company, which were told to him as a witness of the Com- 
pany”. Thus, according to the workmen, the Management did not know that Taj 
Khan was a member of the Union and it could not, therefore, be said that the 
Management wanted to victimise him because of his Trade Union activities. 

15. It was said that the Management wanted to get rid of him because he had 
come to know of several secrets of the Company. There is nothing to justify this 
allegation. It is not shown firstly that Taj Khan was in the know of any secret 
of the Company nor is there anything to show that the Management were actuated 
by any improper motives or unfair labour practice. There is nothing to show or 
suggest that either Parikh or Joshi, or for the matter of that the Manager or the 
Enquiry Officer, had any instructions from the Management in this connection or 
that there was any conspiracy among them to make out a false case against Taj 
Khan. On the contrary, the statement of Taj Khan would show that he had con- 
fidence in the Manager because when according to him Parikh asked him to leave 
the office, he told him that he would go to the Manager. Similarly later on when 
Pathak took him away, Pathak told, him that if he had any grievances, he should 
tell the Manager about it. In other words, at that stage, Taj Khan had confidence 
in the Manager and it could not be said that the whole matter was put up only 
with a view to get rid of Taj Khan. 



[Part IE 


1560 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


16. It was then argued that even if the Management were not guilty of victimi- 
sation or unfair labour practice, at any rate it should have been held that the 
charge was falsely put up by Parikh to save his skin as he was in the wrong. 
This would be a question of fact the! I do not thmk that the Tribunal would be 
justified in going into the questions. 

17. My attention was then drawn to the letter produced with the Management’s 
written statement as exhibit XII, written by the Enquiry Officer to Taj Khan on 
(Jth July 1960 wherein he has mentioned, “you will be given all reasonable oppor- 
tunity to prove your innocence”. It was contended from this that this showed that 
the Enquiry Officer was prejudiced and was believing that Taj Khan was guilty 
and w'anted Taj Khan to prove his innocence. If we read the above rentence by 
Itself, probably this Impression might be created In one’s mind. If, however, we 
look to the entire correspondence and specially to the letter to which the above 
was a reply, it would appear that the above wording is rather loosely used. Taj 
Khan wrote a letter to the Enquiry Officer on 9th July 1960 stating that the erqulry 
was not being properly conducted und that objections raised by him were not 
being recorded, and requesting that a Union representative may be allowed to 
remain present at the Inquiry etc. It was In reply to this letter that the Enquiry 
Officer wrote the above letter denying the allegations about the enquiry being 
not proper etc. He also said that it would not be possible for him to permit Taj 
Khan to bring Union representative to defend him, but that ne would be at liberty 
to bring a workman of his department to defend him. Then comes the last para, 
“Needless to assure you that the inquiry so far conducted has ebserved, alt the 
principles of natural justice and you will be given all reasonable opportunity to 
prove your innocence”. One must remember the fact that this letter is written by 
a person not familiar with legal terminology and as such it must be considered as 
a whole and should be construed in a reasonable manner. I think that what was 
meant by the Enquiry Officer was that Taj Khan would be given all reasonable 
opportunity to dtfend himself and to examine witnesses In defence if he thought 
fit. I do not think that the loose use of the words “to prove your innocence” would 
mean that the Enquiry Officer had already presumed Taj Khan to be guilty. 


10 It was then urged that in his report the Enquiry Officer has referred to the 
previous service record of Taj Khan and stated that it appeared therefrom that 
Taj Khan had been chargeshceted and suspended pending enquiry for assaulting 
a Store-keeper in 1950 and that an application had been made under section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act lor his dismissal. However, as an agreement between 
the Union and Company was reached, he was allowed to continue In jhe Company’s 
service It was argued that this shows that the Enquiry Officer was prejudiced! 
against Taj Khan because of an earlier incident and secondly that he should not 
have referred to that earlier incident without drawing Taj Khan’s attention to It 
and giving him an opportunity to explain it. It may be noted in this connection 
that this point Is referred to by the Enquiry Officer only when considering the 
question of the punishment to be awarded to Taj Khan. The Enquiry Officer’s 
report shows that he first considered the evidence and found that Taj Khan was 
guilty of the charges levelled against him. It is aftpr this that the Enquirv Offi- 
cer has referred to the previous suspension of Taj Khan in 1950 and stated that 
the charges against Taj Khan were serious and more so as he was one of the 
Supervisory cadre, and that in view of this he recommended that he should be 
dismissed. It may be noted in this connection that in the dismissal order the 
previous suspension has not been referred to and all that has been mentioned is 
that the charges levelled against and proved against Taj Khan were grave and 
serious and so the punishment warranted was that of dismissal. I do not think that 
the reference to the previous suspension has in any way affected the findings or the 
punishment. 


10. At this stage, I may refer to two circumstances which may be said to be 
going against the workmen’s allegations against the Management and the Enquiry 
Officer. The first is that the Enquirv Officer had held an Enquiry not only against 
Taj Khan, but also against Tuffail Ahmed, but the Enquiry Officer held the 
charge only against Taj Khan proved while the charge against Tuffail Anmed 
was held riot proved. This shows that there was no malafides or bias on behalf 
of either the Management or the Enquiry Officer. 

20 Another circumstances which mav be noted is that Taj Khan was suspend- 
ed from 29th June 1960. Under the Standing Orders, the maximum period of 
suspension was ten days. The enquiry could not be completed within this P^rlo 
and so on 9th July 1960 the Manager passed an order that Taj Khan should be 
marked present from that day onwards and that wages etc would be prepared 
as Usual and paid to him on the payment day, but he would not be allowed to 



Si 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 itfi 


do any work. This shows that the Management did not want to harms Taj Khan 
in any improper way. They had suspended him because of a serious charge 
against him and an enquiry was being conducted and as the enquiry was not 
over within ten days, they started making payment to him though they did not 
allow him to resume work. If they wanted to harras him, they could easily have 
not made any payment to him till the enquiry was over. 

21. On the whole, aft -r having gone into the entile record of the enquiry held 
ag unst Taj Khan and after having given my careful consideration to the argu- 
ments advanced before me by Shn Chougule, I am of the view that there was 
no want of good faith on the part of the Management, that there was no victimi- 
sation or unfair labour practice; that there was no basic error or violation of 
principles tf natural justice and that the finding is neither baseless nor perverse. 
In my opinion, there was sufficient material before the Enquiry Officer and the 
Management from which they could hold Taj Khan guilty of the charge levelled 
against him, 

22. It was lastly contended that Taj Khan was charged with having commit- 
ted a breach of Standing Order lfi(5) which makes “drunkenness, fighting, rio- 
tous or disorderly or indecent behaviour" mis-eonduct. It was cpntended that 
this applied only when the person was guilty of drunkenness, fighting or riotous 
or disorderly or indecent behaviour when on duty and that it would not apply 
to cases wheie he did so outside office houis. It is to be remembered that the 
charge against Taj Khan was that he was guilty of the above riotous, disorderly 
or indecent behaviour when Pankh and Joshi were returning hom-j from duty. 
If we look at the whole incident, it would be clear that the incident took place 
at a short distance from the place of duty and just after the hours of duty were 
over. It was not a result of a private quarrel, but arose out of official duties of 
Parikh and Joshi. The present case is even a stronger case than the case of 
Central India Joal Fields v. Ram Bilas Shobnath, 1961-1 L.L.J. page 546 where 
the incident took place in the quarters at a short distance from the place of work 
and the Supreme Court held that it was covered by the Standing Order 29(5) 
which is in identical words as Standing Order 16(5) in the present case. In my 
opinion, the Management were rieht in holding that Taj Khan was guilty of mis- 
conduct us defined under the above Standing Order and were within their rights 
in dismissing him. 

23. In the result, I hold that dismissal of Shri Taj Khan was justified and law- 
ful und he is, therefore, not entitled to any relief. 

I pass my award accordingly. 

L. P. Dave, Presiding Officer, 

The 16 th April, 1962. 


|JNIO. Z/3UU/6U-LKtI,J 

?i9rr\ 18 5u "J? P ur n su “ nce of Kec tion 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 0 4 
rLUll’i T- u cen 1 ^Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
t Tribunai Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Central Kirkcnd Colliery and their workmen. 1 " 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

DHANBAD 


Reference No. 38, of 1961 


Parties: — 

Employers in relation to the Central Kirkend Colliery, 

AND 

their workmen. 


Present: — 

Shri Salim M, Merchant , — Presiding Officer. 


Dhanbad: Dated: 18th April, 1962, 

Appearances: — ' | 

For the Employers.— Shyi M, N. Mukherjee, Head Clerk. 

For the workmen.— Shri Ajodhya Prasad Gupta, Organising Secretary 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. 


State: Bihar, 


Industry: Coal Mining. 



1562 THE CAZETl E of INDIA: MAY 5, I962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 

AWARD 


AT By, lhe Ministry of Labour and Employment’s Order 

?°- 2/101/61-LRII, dated 31st May, 1961, made in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disnutps 
Act 1947 (14 of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the 
parties abovenamed m respect of the subject matters specified in the following 
schedule to the said order, to my adjudication: 


Schedule 


“Whether the management was justified in 
tioned below) idle for the period from 
May, 1959, on the plea that they had 
what relief are they entitled: 


keeping the workmen (men- 
14th September, 1953, to 19th 
been retrenched. If not, to 


1. Shri Chamadi Bhuia, 

2. Shri Sheo Mangal. 

3. Shri Prasadi Pasl. 

4. Shri Jitan Das. 

5. Shri Faguni Bhuia. 

6. Shri Manik Pasi. 

7. Shri Ganarl Bhuia. 

8. Shri Bhim Bhuya. 

9. Shri Jago Bhuya. 

10. Shri R. C. Tewari”. 


2. After the parties had filed their written statements, at the hearing of this 
dispute before me at Dhanbad on 18th April, 1962, the parties filed terms of 
settlement reached between them and have prayed that an award be made in 
terms of that settlement. A copy of the joint application of the parties contain- 
ing the terms of settlement is annexed hereto and marked annexure ‘A’. In view 
of the fact that it is admitted that the colliery has closed down the terms of 
settlement appear to be reasonable and I therefore accept the settlement and 
make an award in terms of annexure ’A’ which shall form part of this award. 

. No order as to costs, 

Salim M. Merchant, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 


Annexure A. 
Before: — 


THE PRESIDING OFFICER, 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Reference No. 38 of 1961 

Employers in relation to Central Kurkend Colliery. 


AND 


Their Workmen. 


The parties above-named most respectfully sheweth: — 

1 That in consideration of the fact that the Central Kurkend Colliery has 
been closed down and in view of the fact that various cases and references are 
Bending between the parties a memorandum of settlement dated 27th January, 
1062, was effected between ttie Union representing the workmen and the emplo- 
yers’ to resolve all outstanding disputes. 

2. That without prejudice to the contentions of the parties in the above 
reference it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows— 

(a) That all workmen concerned in this dispute shall be Jfnwl 
to full an? Anal Settlement of their claim. The amount so paid shall 



•Stc, 3(ii>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


not be adjusted towards their retrenchment compensation, if they are retrench- 
ed in future. 


(b) That the lay-off compensation as mentioned above shall be paid to the 
workmen concerned within 15 days from the date of this agreement. 


(c) That the parties will bear their respective costs of this proceeding. 


It is therefore prayed that the above compromise may be recorded and an 
Award passed in terms thereof. 


AJUDHYA PARSAD GUPTA, 
Organising Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Dhanbad, 
For the Workmen, 

Dated the 18 April, 1362. 


Taken on File. 


Illegible, 

Director, 

Central Kurkend Coal Co., Ltd. 

For Employers. 
Dated the 18th April, 1962. 

Illegible, 

18th April, 1062. 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, 


[No. 2/101 /61-LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 28th April 1962 

S.O. 13.55. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Arbitrator in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
M/S. Bolani Ores Limited, P.O. Barbil, District Keomjhar, Orissa and their work- 
men represented by the Barbil Workers’ Union, P.6. Barbil, District Keonjhar, 
Orissa. 


Present 

Shri A. J. Samuel, Retired Asstt. Secretary to the Government of Burma, 
224, Lower Circular Road, Calcutta — 17 — Arbitrator. 

In the matter of an Industrial dispute between Messrs Bolani Ores Limited, 
P.O. Barbil, Dist., Koenjhar and their workmen. 

For the Company. — Shri M, S. Bala. 

For the Barbil Workers’ Union. — Shri J, R. Dash, 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment by Order S.O. 
dated 18th November, 1961, published in Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) of 
the Gazette of India dated 26th' November, 1961, referred to me for arbitration 
the dispute regarding the discharge of Dr. D. N. Ghosh between Messrs. Bolani 
Ores Ltd., P.O, Barbil, Dist., Koenjhar, Orissa and their workmen represented 
by the Barbil Workers' Union, P.O. Barbil Dist., Koenjhar, Orissa, 

The specific issues are as follows: 

“Whether the services of Dr. D. N. Ghosh employed by Messrs Bolani Ores 
Ltd., have been lawfully terminated, if not, to what relief is he 
entitled to”. 

The Union’s case is briefly as follows: 

Dr. D. N. Ghosh was appointed on a three year contract as Medical Officer 
of Messrs Bolani Ores Ltd., on probation for six months, from the 30th October, 
1960. By letter dated 29th April, 1961, the Management purported to terminate 
the services of Dr. D. N. Ghosh with effect, from the 1st June, 1961. The letter 
actmUy delivered to Dr. Ghosh, on the #th June 1901, f.e,, after the expiry 



1564 


1 HE GAZETTE OE INDIA: MAY 5, l'J52/VAISAK.HA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


of his probationary period. Sometime before terminating Dr. Ghosh’s services, 
Ihc Management asked Dr. Ghosh to obtain its prior approval before submitting 
injury reports. On Dr. Ghosh refusing to comply with this, the Management 
terminated his services. The Union further contended that Dr. Ghosh was a 
workman and was denied of the the natural justice to which he is entitled to 
under the Indian Constitution and pi u .s that the Arbitrator should hold that 
the termination of the services of Dr. Ghosh was illegal and that he should be 
reinstated with back wages and also for other incidental remedies. 


The Management’s case is that Dr. D. N. Ghosh, a retired Civil Surgeon of 
the Orissa Government who was 55 years ot age on 24th June, I960, was appoint- 
ed on probation for a period of six months bv the Company’s letter dated 29th 
June, 1960. Sometime after Dr. Ghosh joined his duties, the Barbil Workers” 
Union bitterly complained about him in their letter No. B/W-BOL-22/60, dated 
17th November 1960. Dr. Ghosh’s services were terminated from 1st June, 1961 r 
by the Company’s letter dated 27th April, 1961. The Company’s case is that 
Dr. Ghosh is not a workman, and even if Dr. Ghosh was considered as a workman, 
as he was not a member of the Union, his case is an individual dispute. The 
Company denies the allegation that Dr. Ghosh was asked to submit injury reports 
to the Management for their prior approval. The Management’s view is that all 
that Dr Ghosh is entitled to is a month’s pay in lieu of notice, assuming there 
was delay in the delivery of the letter terminating his services. 


The first question to consider is whether Dr. Ghosh is a workman. The Union 
relies on the decision reported in A.I.R. 1961, Assam Page 30 and argued that 
being a workman Dr. Ghosh is entitled to the benefits of the Industiial Disputes- 
Act as well as the Conciliation Settlement dated 12th June, I960 I do not find, 
m the Conciliation Settlement referred to above any reference to the grade of the 
Medical Officer even though the grades ot alJ other workmen find a place in that 
settlement. However, whether a person is a workman or not 1 ®. f ? ^^'tlns'nohit 
of law and fact and I do not consider it necessary to give a decision on this point 

at this stage. 


The question whether Dr. Ghosh’s case is an individual dispute or an Indus- 
trial dispute has been raised and it is now s. tiled that while a dispute between 
u single worker and the employer would not amount to an Industrial dispute, 
when such a dispute is espoused bv the workers’ Union or a substantial body of 
workers, it would amount to an Industrial dispute. The Andhra Pradesh High 
Court has held that a case does not become an Industrial dispute if a person is 
made a member of the Union after .the termination of his services by the emplo- 
yer only to raise an Industrial dispute (Padarthy Ratnam and Co., Guntur and 
industrial Tribunal and others (1958 LLJ(II) page 291). A single Judge of the 
Kerala High Court differed from this view and the Union cited this case in its 
favour (Sbarnsuddin and State of Kerala and — others. (I960 LLJ. (I) Page 623). 
But this view has been over-ruled by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court 
(1961 LLJ (I) Page 77). The consensus of opinion of two High Courts is that 
there can be an Industrial dispute only if the Union takes up the case of a person 
who was a member before his services were terminated. In this case, the Union 
did not produce any documentary evidence in support of their contention that 
Dr Ghosh enrolled himself as a member of the Union before the termination of 
his services but relied on a statement made by the Conciliation Officer (Central) 
JharsuS in his “Failure Report’’ dated the 27th September, 1961 to the Gov- 
ernmeirt* of India, to the effect that “he (Conciliation Officer) verified from the 
records of the Union that Dr. Ghosh paid subscription to the Union from 1st 
January to 30th June, 1961". 

The third question that I would like to consider is whether Dr. Ghosh should 
he deemed to have become permanent on the expiry of six months period. Even 
Hamming Dr. Ghosh is a workman, I find that the Conciliation settlement date 
12th June 1960 and the standing orders as certified by the Regional Labour Com- 
mlssionet ’speak differently of the status of the workman on probation after com- 
motion Vsi^ I am unable to hold that an employee automatically 

KifZs semaZt on the expiry of six months. If an employee is kept on 
prohatfon^ffidefinitely to deprive f hinj t of the benefits of permanency this may 
amount to an unfair labour practice [1957 (1) LLJ. 412, 1952 U> ggj. dihj. 

t now come to the allegations made in paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the 
tt ■ statement that Dr. Gh-osh was asked to submit to the Manage- 

a - » » ‘srcsM 

E»«o” fS for°the flr'sMimc IK “diS'iM to.' 1961. to V Chief 



Sec, J(ll)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKFIA 1G, 1884 156 $ 


Inspector of Mines (Enel. 16). As Dr. Ghosh had received the letter of termina- 
tion of service on the 6th May, 1961, I am constrained to hold that the termina- 
tion had nothing to do with the alleged mounting pressure. 


Apart from the legal and technical aspect of the case, I am of the opinion 
that the Management was at liberty to terminate the services of Dr Ghosh by 
giving him a clear month’s notice or a month’s pay in lieu of notice, if it was 
considered that his work was continuously unsatisfactory and that he was 
advancing in age which had resulted in deterioration in his work. But I do not 
find from the records of the management that he was ever given a warning of 
anv unsatisfactory service or deterioration in his work due to his age. I feel 
equity demands prior warning of adverse reports, if any. The decision to termi- 
nate his services was communicated to him all of a sudden, Dr. Ghosh has had 
long experience as a Civil Surgeon and was working in the Kocnjhar Dist. itself. 
While I agree with the Management’s contention that a person starting on a 
fresh employment at the age of which Dr. Ghosh started could not expect to 
work for an indefinite period, it cannot be disputed that Dr. Ghosh had a reason- 
able expectation to work at least for a period of three years (i.e., the period of 
his first contract) as he was recruited after a careful medical examination by the 
Company’s doctor. 


In the circumstances, I am of the opinion that Dr. Ghosh’s case deserves 
sympathetic consideration and I therefore direct that Dr. Ghosh should he paid 
salary up to the 31st May, 1961, a month’s pay in lieu of notice, and another three 
months pay an ex gratia. 

Before paying Dr. Ghosh these dues, the Management is entitled to get from 
Dr, Ghosh a proper account for the advance of Rs. 470 that he took from the Com- 
pany for which he has not accounted so far. I direct Dr. Ghosh to submit to the 
Management a poper account for the advance he took. 

COSTS Each Partv will bear its own cost and the fees of the Arbitrator will be 
borne by the Management. 

A, J. Samuel, 

Arbitrator. 


The 18th March, 1962, 


[No. 23/47/61-LRIL] 

New Delhi, the 30 th April 1962 


S.O. 1356.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government, hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Messrs Associated Cement Companies Limited and their work- 
men employed in the Kymore Limestone Quarry. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY 


Reference No, CGIT-18 or 1961. 

Employers in relation to the Associated Cement Companies Ltd., 


AND 

Their Workmen Employed in the Kymore Limestone Quarry. 
Present .— Shri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 


Appearances: 

For the Employers .— Counsel SKri R. J. Kolah' with Shri D. S. Dighe, 
Senior Personnel Officer and Shri G. L. Govil, Personnel Officer. 

For the Workmen .— Shri K. B. Chougule, Secretary and Shri Emanuel 
Askar General Secretary, Kymore Quarrv Karmachari Sapgh with 
Shri G. C. Jaiswal, Member, Wbrklhg Committee, Indian National 
Mine Workers’ Federation. 

Bombay, the 23rd April , 1962 

State: Madhya Pradesh. Industry: Limestone Quarrying. 

AWARD 


The Central Government, by the Ministry of Labour and Employment’s Order 
No 22/14/61-LRII dated 25th May 1981, made in exercise Of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-iectlon U). of *ecU6n 10 of the Industrial Disputes 



- GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


35(56 


Act, 1947 (Act XIV of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between 
the parties abovenanied in respect of the subject matters specified in the follow- 
ing schedule to the said order to me for adjudication: — 

Schedule 

“Whether the existing classification and the placing therein of the follow- 
ing categories of workmen in the Kymore Limestone Quarry of 
Messrs. Associated Cement Companies Ltd,, are proper in terms of 
their occupations and the standards laid down in the Report of the 
Central Wage Board for the Cement Industry; if not what snould 
be the proper classification and placing and to what other relief they 
are entitled? 

(1) Time Keepers (2) Compounders (3) Quarry Overmen (4) Trained 
Teachers (6) Blasting Supervisors (6) Health Visitor (7) Assistant 
Foreman (8) Chief Time Keeper (9) Headmaster (10) Helpers (11) 
Pointsmen (12) Mates (13) Watchman (14) Chowkidars (15) Rail- 
way Mates (16) Peons (17) Shotfiring niazdoors (18) Greasers (19) 
Machinery attendants (20) Assistant Fitters (21) Carpenter (22) 
Issuers (23) Drillers (24) Shot flrers (26) Blasting Mistrlee 
(26) Joy Drill Operators (27) Motor Lorry Drivers (28) Welders 
(29) Diesel Fitters (30) Fitters (31) Electricians (32) Euclid opera- 
tors (33) Scrapper operators and (34) Excavator operators.” 

2. At the hearing of the dispute, Shri R. J. Kolah, learned Counsel for the 
company, contended, as a preliminary objection, that the reference in respect of 
18 categories out of the 34 categories under reference, was not maintainable as 
classification categorywise is not permitted in terms of their occupations and 
standards laid down in the Report of the Central Wage Board for the Cement 
Industry (hereinafter referred to for brevity’s sake as the Wage Board), and 
such classification could only be in respect of individual operatives and that as 
the dispute referred was not m respect of individual operatives the Tribunal 
had no jurisdiction to adjudicate on this dispute. The 18 daily rated categories 
to which Shri Kolah objected are as follows: — 


Serial No. In Schedule 

Category 

10 

Helpers. 

11 

Pointsmen. 

12 

Mates. 

13 

Watchmen. 

14 

Chowkidars. 

15 

Railway mates. 

16 

Peons. 

17 

Shot-firers. 

18 

Greasers. 

19 

Machinery attendants 

20 

Assistant fitters. 

21 

Carpenter, 

22 

Issuers. 

23 

Drillers. 

24 

Shot flrers. 

25 

Blasting mistries. 

26 

Joy Drill Operators and 

27 

Motor Lorry Drivers. 


Considering the language of para. 13.10.1 and the scheme on which the Wage 
Board had formulated its recommendations, for the reasons stated in my Order 
■dated 20th January 1962, I upheld Shri Kolah’s objection. A copy of my said 
order is annexed io this Award as annexure ‘A’, and it shall form part of this 
Award. 

3. I therefore, award that the reference for the classification categorywise of 
■the 18 categories mentioned above is not permissible in terms of their occupations 
and the standards laid down in the report of the Wage Board, and that only 
disputes in respect of proper classification in these categories of individual opera- 
fives only could be raised. The reference, therefore, In respect of these 18 cate- 
gories Sa&s. 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1567 - 


4. It was also contended by Shri Kolah that the reference in respect of the 
following categones of daily rated operators in respect of whom tire union's 
claim is that they should be placed in the monthly rated clerical and lower tech- 
nical supervisory staff, was also not competent. The 7 categories are: — 

Item No. in the Schedule 


Category 

28 1 


Welders. 

29 


Diesel Fitters. 

30 

1 

Fitters. 

31 


Electricians. 

32 


Euclid Operator. 

33 


Scrapper Operator and 

34 


Excavator Operators, 


It was admitted that there are daily rated operatives who have been classified 
in Grades A to E under the Wage Board’s Report. The union wants them to be 
placed in various grades of pay fixed for the monthly rated clerical and lower 
technical and supervisory staff. By my said order dated 20th January 1961, I 
upheld this contention of the management and held that the demand for classi- 
fication of these categories In terms of their occupation and the standards laid 
down in the Wage Board’s Report into monthly rated clerical and lower techni- 
cal and supervisory staff was not competent and for the reasons stated in that 
order, I now award accordingly. 

5. It was also contended by the company in its written statement that the 
following 3 categories viz.., 


Item No. in the Schedule 

Category 


4 

' Trained teachers, 


0 

Health Visitors and 


9 

Headmasters. 



do not fall within the definition of the term “workmen” as defined by section 
2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and therefore this Tribunal has no 
jurisdiction to adjudicate on any demand in respect of these 3 categories. After 
considering the various decisions of the Labour Appellate Tribunal relied upon 
by Shri Kolah I held by my order dated 20th January 1962 that categories Nos. 4 
and 9 i.e., Trained Teachers and Head Masters, were not workmen within the 
definition of section 2(s) of the Act and the reference in respect of their cate- 
gorisation, which in effect would mean fixing the proper scale of pay for them,, 
was not maintainable. With regard to category No. 6 Health Visitors I held by 
my order dated 20th January 1962 that as there was not sufficient material placed 
before me at the stage of the submissions on the preliminary objections regarding 
their duties, I would consider their case when the dispute was heard on its 
merits. 1 may, however, state that at the hearing of the dispute on its merits- 
on 19th February 1902, Shri K. B. Chougulc, the Secretary of the Union, did not 
press the demand on behalf of Health Visitors as also on behalf of the Com- 
pounder, Item No. 2 in tho order of reference, as these two categories of workmen 
do not exist in the Kymore Limestone Quarry, but are employees of the Cement 
factory of the Company at Kymore. The Union also dropped the claim on behalf 
of the Chief Time Keeper — Item No. 8. 

9. In the result, for the reasons stated in my order dated 20th January 1902, 
I award that the adjudication in respect of Item Nos. 4 and 9 i.e. for Trained 
Teachers and Headmasters, is not competent as they are not workmen under 
Section 2 (s) of the Act, and I have, therefore, no jurisdiction to entertain the- 
claim on their behalf. As the claim for Item No. 6, Health Visitors, Item No. 2 
Compounders is withdrawn on the ground that there are not workmen employed 
in the Kymore Limestone Quarry — and the demand with regard to Item No. 8 — 
Chief Time Keeper— is withdrawn, the demand with regard to them under re- 
ference also falls. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 


[Part II 


1568 


7. In the result, therefore, only the following 4 categories out of the 34 under 
reference, remain to be considered viz. : — 

Item No. In the Schedule 

Category 

1 

Time Keepers. 

3 

' Quarry Overmen. 

6 

Blasting Supervisors. 

7 

Assistant Foreman. 


it However, before dealing with the Union’s demand with regard to each of 
these 4 categories, I think, it Is necessary to give a brief account of the events 
leading upto this dispute. 


0. The Wage Board made its report on 7th October 1959 and its recommenda- 
tions were to be operative from 1st January 1960. The Wage Board recommend- 
ed ft scales of pay, A to E, for operatives and 7 grades, I to VII, for clerical, 
lower technical and supervisory staff. With regard to the classification of the 
operatives, the Wage Board recommended that, in the conditions prevailing in 
the Cement Industry, the classification adopted in the Associated Cement Com- 
panies Ltd., the largest unit in the Industry, should be adopted and accordingly 
it recommended scales of wages of operatives into A, B, C, D and E grades the 
E grade representing the unskilled worker (See para. 9.23 of the Report of the 
Wage Board). By para. 13.10.1 of its Report, the Wage Board recommended as 
iollows: — 


“Operatives who are alieady classified in Grades A, B, C, D & E should 
be put into the new A, B, C, D and E grades respectively. This 
should not be taken to preclude the Union concerned from resorting 
to the machinery provided by the Industrial Disputes Act, if it is 
dissatisfied by the classification in the case of any operative. Ope- 
ratives who are not at present classified in this manner should be 
fitted into the new grades on the basis of skill, suitability and ex- 
perience. This should be done by the employers after consulting 
the Unions within three months of our recommendations coming into 
effect and should have retrospective effect. If the Union is dissatis- 
fied, the matter may be settled by arbitration provided that the two 
parties agree on the joint nomination of an arbitrator. Failing this, 
the machinery provided by the Industrial Disputes Act would e 
available”. 

1 n With recard to salary Grades I to VII, for the clerical and lower technical 
supervisory staff the Wage Board stated that the allocation directed by jit .into 
the grades I to VII should also be done by the employer after consulRng the 
Unio^ concerned within two months of its recommendation coming , into effect 
and with retrospective effect from that date. It also recommended m the case 
of these cLss of workmen that if the Union is dissatisfied the matter may b 
settled by an arbitrator, failing which the machinery provided by the Industrial 
Disputes Act would be available (Para. ld.~z.dj. 

Union for a mutual consultation. But ' { tlle union the management 

ly argued that m having invited th. c - ^ "■ Roar( 3 w jth regaid to consulting 

had fulfilled the recommendations of the Wage Board witn re K that wh ^ 

the Union, I think there is no real Classification should be done 

the Wage Board had recommended was that the classic Shri 

bv the employers, “after consulting the Union As > ngnuy « iflc8tlon and 
Chougule for the Union, the exultation was to Precede clagglflcation as made 
not follow it. Even if the : conaultatrcm was w® 1 ^ rega rd to consulting the 

by the Company the direction of the Wage Bo caT S»d out, by the management 
Union cannot possibly be deemed to have been cameo om, uy 



Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 1569 


merely asking for the comments of the Union and thereafter not inviting the 
Union’s representative for a discussion over the classification suggested by it and 
also the Union, 

12. Be that as It may, when the management paid no heed to the objection 
■raised by the Union to the classification as done by the Company, the Union raised 
an industrial dispute and referred the dispute with regard to the classification of 
the 34 categories stated in the Schedule, to the Conciliation Officer (C) Jabalpur, 
for Conciliation. Conciliation proceedings followed but ended in failure as stated 
in the Conciliation Officer’s detailed and illuminating failure report dated 8/9 
April 1901, after which Government was pleased to refer this dispute for adjudi- 
cation to this Tribunal. 

13. Before I proceed to discuss the claim of the Union with regard to the 
proper grade of pay under the Wage Boards Report, for the four categories, which 
have survived for consideration, I must deal with another contention urged by 
Shri R. J. Kolah, Shri Kolah has argued that in effect the claim in this dispute 
is for promotion and he has drawn my attention to several decisions of Industrial 
Tribunals where it is held that a demand for promotion should not be entertained 
by Tribunals because this is essentially a managerial function, unless a strong case 
Is made out for fixing higher categories. These decisions also lay down that 
Tribunals should not unnecessarily interfere in guise of wrong classification. The 
cases relied upon by Shri R. J. Kolah arc — 

1. New Dholra Steamship Co. and its workmen, [Maharashtra Government 

Gazette Part If dated 29th December, 1960, P. 3319 at p. 3321 (Parts 
5 and 6).] 

2. Award of Shri M. R. Meher, President, Industrial Court, Maharashtra, in 

the case of Edward Textiles (Bombay Government Gazette Part IL 
dated 18th February, I960, at p. 767). 

3. Award of Shri M. R. Meher, President, Industrial Court of Maharashtra, 

in the case of Glaxo Laboratories (Maharashtra Government Gazette 
Part II, dated 5th January, 1061 at page 40). 

14. But I think that the instant case can be easily distinguished from the cases 
relied upon by Shri Kolah. The instant disputes are not for promotion of indivi- 
dual workman to higher posts but arise from the direction with regard to classifi- 
cation contained in para 13.22.3 of the Wage Board’s Report. The dispute really 
is for proper classification In certain grades of pay recommended by the Wage 
Board, and the Wage Board itself has noted that on failure of parties to agree to 
arbitration over disputes on categorisation, the workmen could raise an industrial 
dispute over it under the Industrial Disputes Act, and such a dispute cannot, 
therefore, be treated on the same footing as a dispute with regard to a claim for 
promotion from a lower to higher post or category. I. therefore, reject the 
contention of Shri Kolah and hold that an Industrial dispute is competent in 
respect of the demand under reference in respect of these surviving four cate- 
gories, and that I have jurisdiction to entertain the same, 

15. I, therefore, now proceed to deal with the evidence oral and documentary, 
which purties have led In respect of Time Keepers, 

16. Time Keepers. — The management has placed Time Keepers In Grade I, 
under the Wage Board’s recommendation on the pay scale of Rs. 70 — 5 — 100 — E.B.— 
5 — 150, whilst the Union claims that the appropriate pay scale for them should be 
the Grade III, which is, Rs. 90 — 8—170 — E.B.- — 10 — 250. The Union in its written 
statement has urged that considering the nature of the duties and responsibilities 
perfu .ned by the Time Keepers of the Kymore Quarry, the lowest clerical grade 
of pay of Rs. 70 — 150, Is Inadequate for them. It has urged that the Grade I scale 
of pay had been allowed by the company to categories of employees like testers 
and primary Trained teachers, than whom Time Keepers perform work of higher 
calibre. 

17. ^ The Company in its written statement has pointed out that the Wage 
Board's recommendation has merely prescribed number of monetary grades In 
respect of the clerical, lower technica 1 --nd supervisory staff and it does not 
standardise the classification of the occupations Into the monetary grades prescrib- 
ed in Its Report; that prior to the Wage Board’s Report the Company had already 
an existing gradation scheme for its monthly rated clerical. Lower technical and 
supervisory staff, which had been evolved on the basis of all factors such as the 
nature of the job, training required, experience involved and responsibilities 
iimdertaken; that the occupations were reviewed after the Wage Board Report In 



1570 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


the context of the minimum and maximum and the quantum of the annual incre- 
ments In the existing monetary grades and the new monetary grades prescribed 
by the Wage Board and the same were allocated to the appropriate grades of the 
Wage Board. The Company has In the statement annexure "A” to its written 
statement shown that its "C" grade prior to the Wage Board’s Report, in which 
Time bleepers were classified, had the scale of paji of Rs, 60 — 5 — 90 — 8 — 120 — E.B. — 
6/2—150 and that this had now been revised to the scale of Rs. 65/70 — 5 — 110 — 
E.B. — 5 — 150 (non-matriculates to start on Rs. 65 and matriculates on Rs. 70) and 
the existing ryage of these categories had been fitted into the pay scale as recom- 
mended by the Wage Board. The management has, therefore, contended that it 
having taken into account all factors such as the nature of the job, training re- 
quired, experience involved and responsibilities undertaken etc., the Union could 
not raise this dispute and in any case the demand of the Union was not justified 
on the merits, 

18. Witnesses of both parties examined at the hearing have referred to the 
nature of duties performed by the Time Keepers of the Kymorc Quarry and both 
Shri Chougule and Shri Kolah, learned rounsel for the Company have addressed 
me at some length on this point. 

10, The management In opposing any higher grade to Time Keepers has relied 
mainly on the description of duties of Time Keepers stated in the standard list 
of occupations in the Cement Industry published by Government in which at item 
131 page 26, Time Keeper’s duties are stated as follows: — 

"Issue token to workers at the beginning of the shift and collects them at 
the end. Maintains Muster Roll, Makes Wage Sheets and prepares 
pay bills, Also deals with compensation cases”. 

Bhri Kolah has argued that the duties of Time Keepers are not in any way mere 
onerous or require any higher responsibilities than those of an ordinary clerk 
whose duties in the Government ' List (Item 125 at page 28) have been described 
as follows. — 

"Undertakes general clerical duties. General education. May work as a 
genera) clerk in the office, or work in different sections of the office 
or plarlt in various capacities such as despatch clerk, weigh-bridge 
clerk, Canteen clerk, cleaning clerk, works clerk, etc.” 

Shri Kolah has also pointed out that three of the Time Keepers of the Quarry 
arc non-matriculates and In opposing the Union’s claim for the Grade III scale of 
pay, he has pointed out that that grade Is to apply to much better qualified em- 
ployees such as Trained graduate teachers. He has further submitted that the 
work of Time Keepers is of a general routine nature and requires no training or 
special Intelligence and hardly any responsibility and that the revised scale for 
grade I clerks recommended by the Wage Board is adequate considering the im- 
proved increments at the later stages of that scale. 

20. On the other hand, Shri Chougule has relied upon a comparable statement 
filed by the management (Ex. E — 2) which shows that in 2 other Cement Works, 
namely Satna and in DIgvijay, Time Keepers have, under the Wage Boards recom- 
mendation, been placed iri grade II. It is, I think pertinent to remember that the 
Cement Works or companies mentioned in the Company's statement (Ex. 2) were 
selected by the management, and that the Satna Cement factory was started only 
in 1960. Shri Chougule has also pointed out that Time Keepers are the only 
category of clerks working in quarries who are subject to penalties under the 
Mines Act and its rules, and this was admitted in cross-examination by the Com- 
pany’s witness Ex. W-l, at page 7 or his evidence when he confirmed that Time 
Keepers are responsible under the Mines Act and its Rules. Shri Chougule has 
also pointed out that the duty hours of Time Keepers differ from the duty hours 
of other clerks as they have to work irregular hours’ during the three shifts, 
between 6-30 a.m. to 12-30 midnight. The Union has filed a statement giving a 
list of duties which according to it are performed by Time Keepers in the Kymore 
Quarry (Ex, W-2), and though some of the duties have been split up, out of the 
main heads of duties, all the same, Shri Chougule was right when he stated, and 
this was also confirmed by statements made in cross-examination by the Company's 
witness (W.E. 1), that Time Keepers in this quarry perform some more duties than 
that witness had stated in his examination-in-chief. The Company’s witness 
(W.E.-l) had to admit In cross examination that Time Keepers maintain daily 
attendance Registers. It was also admitted by this witness that Time Keepers on 
the second and third shift record over time and that they have to allocate duties. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1%2/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 I 57 I 


Shri Chougule has, therefore, argued that the duties of the Time Keepers in the 
Kymore Quarry, are many times more than the duties of the Time Keepers, 
specified in the Government’s list of occupations in the Cement Industry, and he' 
has therefore claimed that they should all be placed in the Grade III. 

21. After an anxious consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary 
on record, I am inclined to the opinion that the Union has been able to establish 
that Time Keepers in the K.'inore Quarry perform more duties, in a more onerous 
form and have also to shoulder heavier responsibilities than the general Grade I 
clerks. The Company’s statement Ex. E, 2 also shows that the Time Keepers In 
the Cement Works at Satna and Digvijay are also placed in a higher category than 
category I. After an anxious consideration of the matter, I am satisfied that Time 
Keepers of the Kymore Quarry need to be placed In a higher grade, but I am not 
satisfied that the appropriate grade for them is the Grade III, claimed by the Union. 

I think the Union in claiming Grade III is claiming one grade higher than the proper 
grade for Time Keepers. I think the appropriate grade for Time Keepers should 
be the Grade II for which the scale of Es. 80—6 — 140 — E.B. — 7 — 196 has been 
recommended by the Wage Board, and I award that Time Keepers shall be entitled 
to that grade from the date the Wage Board’s recommendations have come into 
force l.e. from, 1st January, 1960, and I further direct that their wages be adjusted 
into the said scale of Grade II, according to the directions of the Wage Board 
with effect from 1st January, 1960, and the dues found payable to the Time Keepers 
be paid to them within a month of this Award coming into operation. 

22. Quarry Overmen. — The Company, in implementation of the Wage Board’s 
recommendations has placed overmen In Grade II — in the pay scale of Bs. 80 — 6 — 
140 — E.B, — 7 — 196, whilst the Union claims for them the Grade V which Is In the 
pay scale of Rs. 110— 12— 170— 14— 240— E.B.— 15— 360. 

28. In its written statement of claim the Union has stated that in a highly 
mechanised quarry like the Kymore Quarry, this classification is not proper and. 
it has sought to justify the higher grade claimed by It by stating that the duties- 
and responsibilities of overmen are higher than of the other categories who have 
placed in Grade II scales namely ‘B’ grade clerks and secondary trained teachers, 
l'he Union has stated that the company has placed Watch and Ward Supervisors, 
whose job requires no special qualifications and who have very limited number 
04 workmen to supervise, in grade VII and, therefore, a quarry overmen should 
be placed In Grade V, at least. , 

24. The company in its written statement has urged the same objections against 
this demand, as it had urged in respect of me Time Keepers. 

25. At the hearing both parties led oral and documentary evidence in respect 
of their respective stands. 

28. The Union’s case, briefly staled, is that overmen perform supervisory duties, 
which fact was admitted by the Company’s witnesses Shri V. s. Laxman, the 
Manager of the Kymore Quarry (E.W. 1). The Union complains that in classify- 
ing overmen in Grade II the Company had not applied correct criteria or any 
principles whatsoever. He has, I think with justification, argued that the duties 
of overmen in a highly mechanised quarry like this, where very heavy machinery 
is used, must be considered to be very responsible. Shri Choughule has referred 
to the admitted fact that in this quarry 5 excavators are used— which have a 
capacity to lift 14 to 2J tons load; that the Euclid machine carries as many as 12 
tons and the “More” has a rated capacity of 22 tons as admitted by the manage- 
ment. He has stated that the nature and condition of work in this quarry re- 
quires the presence of two overmen in each shift; this appears to be borne out 
by the record. Shri Choughule has argued that as the duties of the overmen are 
admittedly to look after the safety of the workmen, therefore considering that 
heavy blasting In the quarries are done at a depth of above 75 feet with the shot- 
hole having a diameter of 8 inches and further considering that each of the heavy 
blasting operations require use of high explosives weighing about 200 to 300 lbs 
the responsibilities of the overmen, one of which admittedly is to look after the 
safety of the workmen, must be deemed to be very heavy. 


27. At the hearing there was controversy between the parties as to the number 
ol’ overmen, who are employed— the Union claimed that there were in all 6 over 
men, whilst the company admitted only 3. The three employees whom the union 
claimed as 'overmen are Ramgopal, Nigam and Muqim-ud-din, whilst the com 
panics case was that they were Tally checkers and not overmen There 
also controversy between the parties as to what is the proper designation of the 



1572 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 3, 1962/VAiSAiUIA 15. 1884 [Fart II 


three employees whom the company says are overmen, and whom the union claims 
as shift foreman, and in respect of whom the Unions complaint is that by being 
made overmen they have been demoted. I am, really not concerned with these 
controversies between tne parties, because what I have to decide is what should 
be the proper grade of pay for the overman s category considering the duties and 
responsibilities of the overman in terms of the occupations and the standards laid 
down in the .Report of the Cement Wage Board. I may, however, state that the 
company has stated and this is admitted by the union that whenever the three 
workmen whom it calls tally clerks acted as Overmen, they were paid overmen’s 
wages. I may state that the record produced by the union exhibit W-l does seem 
to support the union’s case that the three workmen, whom the union says are 
overmen and the company says are taily-clerks, are really doing the work of 
overmen but, since tne company says tnat it is paying them the overman’s wages 
whenever tney work as overmen i am confident the management will do the right 
thing by them and pay them the wages of the grade in which 1 am classifying 
overmen. 


28. X have given an anxious consideration to the oral and documentary evidence 
on the record and the duties of overmen as revealed thereby, and I have come to 
the conclusion tnat the classification by the company of overmen in grade II in the 
scale of pay of Ks, 80 — 6—140 — E.B. — 7 — 196 is not proper in terms of the occupa- 
tions and standards laid down by the Wage Board, it is clear to me that overmen 
perform supervisory duties, and it is not denied by the management that one of 
their duties is to look after the- safety of the workmen. Considering that the 
vuarry is highly mechanised, that its production per shift is quite hign, and also 
,-onsidering tne type of equipment and machines used in the quarry, I am of the 
opinion tnat the overman's work and" responsibility deserve a higher category of 
pay than is granted by the company. By placing them in category II, the company 
has virtually placed them just above the lowest category, in my opinion the 
duties of overmen and their responsibilities need to be evaluated higher than 
what the management has done. In the comparatively new Cement Works at 
Satna the overman has also been placed in Grade II, as shown in the company’s 
statement exhibit E-l. X am quite conscious that Tribunal should not ordinarily 
interfere with the classification which the management does, but in this case X 
think a clear case has been made out justifying rpy interfering with the classifica- 
tion granted to overmen by the company. The union has claimed that overmeA 
should be placed in grade V for which the pay scale prescribed bv the Cement 
Wage Board is Rs. 1 10— 12— J 70 — 14 — 240 — JS.B. — 1 5—300. This claim, in my 
opinion, is excessive. After an anxious consideration of the evidence both oral 
ana documentary, on record with regard to the duties and responsibilities of over- 
men, and after considering the submissions of the parties, I am satisfied that the 
classification Qf overmen in grade II as done by the company. Is not proper and 
in my opinion in terms of the occupation and standards laid down by the Cement 
Wage Board, the proper classification of overmen should be in the grade III in 
the pay scale of Rs. «u— 8— 170— E.B.— 10— 25(J and 1 direct that the overmen shall 
be giyen the benefit of this scale of pay in terms of the directions given by the 
Cement Wage Board with effect from 1st January, 1060, and I further direct that 
the amount found due to the overmen shall be paid to them within one month of 
this Award coming into operation. 


29. Blasting Supervisors:— There is only one blasting supervisor in this quarry 
and the company has classified him in grade IV unaer the Cement Wage Board s 

recommendations for which the pay scale is Rs. 100 — 10 — 180 — 12 204 EB 12 

— 300. The present Incumbent is at the stage of Rs. 252/- in that scale. The 

union wants grade VII which is in the scale of pay of Rs. 150—15—300 — EB 

20 — 480 and in its written statement, in support of this demand, it had urged that 
as the company has put the Watch and Ward Supervisor in grade VII, the union is 
justified in claiming grade VII for the blasting supervisors. As regards the duties 
of the blasting supervisors, the company s witness EW — l has stated that he issues 
blasting materials and it was ascertained at the hearing that the blasting super- 
visor is present when the shot hole is stemmed and also when it Is fired. The 
union has emphasised that the duties of the blasting supervisor involve risk and 
responsibility and therefore a higfr scale of pay for the blasting supervisor would 
be justified. The union has relied upon an Arbitrator’s award in a dispute 
between the National Coal Development Corporation and its workmen under 
which the blasting supervisor of an open cast coal mine was awarded wages In 
the dally scale of pay of Rs. 7’ 15 nP.— Rs. 10/- per day. But there is not suffi- 
cient material to suggest that there is any real comparison between the duties of 
that job and that of the blasting supervisor in this quarry. In the standard list of 
occupations in the Cement Industry, the duties of a blasting supervisor are stated 
93 being that "he supervises the blasting operations in quarries including the 




Stc. i(ii)] the gazette of india.-may s, i962 /vaisakha ns, 1881 


distributing and charging of explosives In drill holes and his normal qualifications 
are stated as being, "general education and experience in the job, knowledge of 
saftly precautions.” The blasting supervisor in this quarry also appears to be 
performing those duties. No doubt, his duties do involve a certain amount of 
risk and responsiblity considering that the shot holes in the quarry go to a depth 
of Y5 ft and explosives of about 200 to 300 lbs. are used, for heavy blasting. But 
what I have to consider is whether for these duties and responsibilities the scale 
of pay of Rs. 100 to Rs. 300/- fixed by the Company is adequate. The union has 
not led any evidence to show that anywhere else a blasting supervisor is paM 
higher wages and its comparison with the duties of the watch and ward super- 
visor is clearly untenable. In Satna Cement Works, the blasting supervisor baa 
been placed in the 'C' grade for operatives which has a lower scale of pay. The 
union has sought to draw a comparison with the scale of pay fixed by the company 
for another workman, one Mr. Dubey. But it was ascertained at the hearing 
that Shri Dubey is technically qualified, whilst no technical qualification is requir- 
ed for the post of blasting supervisor as seen from the standard list of occupa- 
tions for the cement industry prepared by Government. In the result, I am not 
satisfied that the union has made out any case for my interfering with the classi- 
fication done by the management with regard to blasting supervisors. 

30. Assistant Foremen: — The last category that remains to be considered is that 

of assistant foreman. The company has placed him in grade V for which the Wage 
Board has prescribed the scale of pay of Rs. 110 — -12 — 170 — 14—240 — EB — 15— 
360, whilst the union claims for him grade VII In the scale of pay of Rs. 150 — 15 
— 300 — EB — 20 — 460. It has been admitted that at present there are two assistant 
foremen who were formerly in the grade of R's. 100 to Rs. 300/-. The present in- 
cumbents of the two posts are Shri Abbas Baig who is on a basic pay of Rs. 255/- 
and Shri Khamparia who is on a basic pay of Rs. 240/-. The union has urged 

that as the assistant foreman In the quarry is immediately below the Assistant 

Quarry Manager and there is no Quarry Foreman, the Assistant Foreman should 
be paid the same wages as the Foreman in the Cement Works, who has been 
placed In the scale of Rs. 150— 15— 300— EB— 20 — 460. The company has stated 
that its classification Is more than generous, as Assistant Foreman have been 
placed in the same grade — grade IV — as overseers whose duties are higher than 
those of Assistant Foremen. The union has sought to draw a comparison with the 
Dost of Kiln-Shift-In-charge In the Cement Works, but it was ascertained that 

there is no such designation in the company’s cement works. The scale of pay 

for the Assistant Foreman in this company is also much better than the scale of 
of pay for the Assistant Foremen in the Jaiour Udyog Cement Works where the 
Assistant Foreman has been placed in grade IV in the scale of pay of 

—180— 12— 204— EB— 12— 300, which is lower than that of grade V, In which the 
company has fitted its Assistant Foremen. On a careful considerations of the 
submissions made by the parties, I am not satisfied that the union has made out a 
case for disturbing the classification of Assistant Foremen In grade V. 

31. I, therefore, make my Award accordingly, No order as to costs. 

(Sd.) Saxjm M. Merchant, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 

Annexure A 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL,, BOMBAY 
Reference No. CGIT-18 of 1961 

Employers In relation to Messrs. Associated Cement Cos. Ltd., 

and 

Their Workmen Employed in Kymore Lime Stone Quarry. 

Present: 

8hri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 

Dated Bombay ?0tli January, 1952 




1574 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


Appearances : — 

For the employers . — Shri R. J. Ko'ah, Advocate (O.S.) Ehri D. S. Dighe, 
Sr. Personnel Officer. Shri G. L. Govil, Personnel Officer. 

For the Workmen.- — Shri K. B. Chougule, Secretary, Kymore Quarry Kar- 
machari Sangh, Shri G. C. Jaisv al. Member Working Committee, 
Indian National Mine Workers’ Federation. Shri Emanuel Askar, 
General Secretary, Kymore Quarry Karmachari Sangh. 

Order 

This industrial dispute has been referred b<- the Central Government by the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment’s Order No. 22/14/61-LRIT dated 25th’ May 
1961 made in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The subject matter of the 
dispute as stated in the schedule to the said order is: — 

Schedule 

"Whether the existing classification and the nlacing therein of the follow- 
ing categories of workmen in the Kymore Limestone Quar- v of 
Messrs. Associated Cement Companies Ltd. are proper in terms of 
their occuoations and the standards laid down in the report of the 
Central Wage Boa'd for the Cement Industry; if not what should 
be the proper classification and placing and to what other relief they 
are entitled: 

(1) Time keepers (2) Compounders (3) Quarry Overmen (4) Trained 
Teachers (5) Blasting Supervisors (6) Health Visitors (7) Assistant 
Forman (8) Chief Time Keeper (9) Headmaster (10) Helpers (11) 
Pointsmen (12) Mates (13) Watchmen (14) Chowkidar (15) Rail- 
way Mates (16) Peons (17) Shot firing Mazdoors (18) Greasers (19) 
Machinery attendants (20) Assistant Fitters (21) Carpenter (22) 
Issuers (23) Drillers (24) Shot firers (25) Blasting Mistries (26) Joy 
drill ope~ators (27) Motor Lorry Drivers (28) Welders (29) Diesel 
fitters (30) Fitters (31) Electricians (32) Euclide operators (33) 
Scrapper operators and (34) Excavator Operators.” 

'2. At the hearing of the dispute at Bombay on 6th January, 1962 Counsel Shri 
R. J. Kolah, appearing for the management urged certain preliminary objections 
wijh regard to the maintainability of this reference and the jurisdiction of this 
Tribunal in respect of certain categories. He has urged that of the 34 categories 
listed in the schedule to the order of reference the following 18 categories am 
in respect of operatives whose classification categorywise is not permitted in 
terms of their occupations and the standards laid down in the Report of the 
Central Wage Board for the Cement Industry; (hereinafter for brevity’s sake 
referred to as the Wage Board), The categories in respect of which this objec- 
tion has been raised are categories Nos. (10) helpers, (11) pointsmen, (12) mates, 
(13) watchmen, (14) chowkidar. (15) railway mates, (16) peons, (17) shot 
firing mazdoo“s, (18) greasers. (19) machinery attendants, (20) assistant fitters, 
(21) carpenter, (22) issuers, (23) drillers, (24) shot firers. (25) blasting mistries, 
(20). joy drill operators and (27) motor lorry drivers. The obiertion is that with 
regard to these categories the dispute with regard to classification into the cate- 
gories prescribed by the Wage Board could only be in respect of individual ope- 
ratives of those categories and not categorywise; that as the auestion of classifi- 
cation, of individual operatives is not before this Tribunal in this reference, this 
Tribunal could have no iurisdiction with regard to classification of these catego- 
ries — which are all of daily paid operatives. 

3. It is admitted that by an agreement dated 1st February 1961 entered into 
between this company and the union it was agreed that the recommendations of 
the Cement W«<m Board would be binding on the management, It may be stated 
here that the Wage Board's recommendations are to anplv not onlv to the work- 
men of the cement works of the Associated Cement Companies Ltd., but also to 
its emplovees in the limestone Quarries, including this particular quarry viz. the 
Kvmore Lime Stone Quarry, Now. the Wage Board fixed fnr operatives five 
grades viz. Grades A. B, C, D and E and it is admitted that these grades were 
the grades in force in this comnany. By paragraph 13.10.1 of its Report the 
Wage Board recommended as follows: — 

“Operatives who are already classified in grades A. B, C, D and E should 
be put Into the new A, B, C, D and E grades respectively. This 




Sic S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VALSAKHA IS, 1864 


1575 


should not be taken to preclude the Union concerned from resorting 
to the machinery provided by the Indust ial Disputes Act if it in 
dissatisfied by. the classification in the case of any operative. Opera- 
tives who are not at present classified in this manner should be 
fitted into the new grades on the basis of skill, suitability and ex- 
perience. This should be done by the employers after consulting 
the Unions within three months of our recommendations coming into 
effect and should have retrospective effect If the union is dissatis- 
fied the matter may be settled by arbit ation provided that the two 
parties agree on the joint nomination of an arbitrator. Failing this, 
the machinery provided by the Industrial Disputes Act would be 
available.” 

4. Shri Kolah’s contention is that under these directions of the Wage Boa 'd 
a dispute with regard to classification could only be raised in the case of indi- 
vidual operatives and not in respect of categories and that the recommendations 
of the Wage Board only provided for utilising the machinery provided by the 
Industrial Disputes Act in cases where there was a dispute with regard to the 
proper classification into these grades of individual operatives. It appears to me 
from the language of paragraph 13.10.1 and the scheme on which the Wage Board 
has formulated its recommendations, that this contention is correct Shri Chou- 

f ule for the union has on the othe~ hand relied upon the settlement dated 1st 
'ebruary 1961 reached between the management and this union under which 
the recommendations of the Wage Board were made binding on both parties to 
the settlement, which was to be treated a settlement under the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 as amended, and the rules thereunder. Para. 15 of the settle- 
ment on which Shri Chougule relies p ovides as follows: — 

"In regard to disputes arising out of the implementation of the recommen- 
dations and the application or working out of the recommendations 
in individual case or categories, the union reserves the right for 
raising the same as stipulated in the recommendations, or as provid- 
ed under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 as amended." 

Shri Chougule has argued that the dispute with regard to proper classification 
of categories could be raised and that in fact the present dispute has been raised 
and referred to this Tiibunal because of the powers reserved to the union in 
that behalf under the provisions of paragraph 15 of the said settlement Shri 
Dighe, the Senior Personnel Officer of the Company has however pointed out 
that the reference to categorisation in paragraph 15 of the agreement of 1st 
February 1961 related to disputes with regard to categorisation not of operatives 
whose categorisation is covered under paragraph 13.10.1 of the Wage Board's 
recommendations, but that the reference to categorisation is with regard to the 
clerical and lower technical and supervisory staff of the company for whom 
Grades I to VII have been prescribed under para 13.19.1 I am not satisfied that 
the reference to categories made in paragraph 15 of the agreement of 1st February 
1961, can entitle the union to claim classification categorywise of operatives. I 
am satisfied that the reference with regard to classification of the 18 categories 
objected to by the company is para. 4 of its written statement and as stated in 
pa’a. 2 of this order, is incompetent as not arising out of the terms of their 
occupations and standards laid down in the Report of the Central Wage Board 
for the Cement Industry on the ground that disputes with regard to classification 
in respect of operatives can only be in respect of individual operatives and negt 
categories. I, therefore, uphold the objection of the management and hold that 
I have no jurisdiction to entertain this reference in respect of these categories 
of workmen. 

5. The management has also urged that the reference in respect of the follow- 
ing 7 categories of daily rated operatives in respect of whom the Union’s claim 
is that they should be placed in the monthly rated clerical and lower technical 
and supervisory staff is also not competent. The 7 categories a~e: — 


Item No. in the Schedule 

Category 

28 

Welder*. 

29 

Diesal Fitters. 

30 

Fitters. 

31 

Electricians. 

32 

Euclid operator. 

33 

Scrapper Operator. 

34 

Excavator Operators. 


157<$ 


THE 6A2STTE OF INDIA MAY 5, 1962/VAtSAKHA 15, 1884 [Past 11 


It is admitted that these are daily rated operatives who have been classified in 
the grades A to E. The Union, however, claims that they should be placed in 
various grades of pay fixed for the monthly rated clerical and lower technical 
and supervisory staff, I am, satlsfl d that the company’s contention that such a 
claim is incompetent in terms of their occupation and the standards laid down 
In the Report of the Central Wage Board for Cement Industry, because they are 
daily rated operatives, I, therefore, hold that the demand of the Union for the 
classification of these categories into the monthly rated grades is incompetent. 

6. The company, in Its written statement, has urged two other preliminary 
objections. The first preliminary objection is that categories Nos. 4, 6 and 9 ids. 
trained teachers, health visitors and headmasters are not workmen within the 
definition of section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act and therefore this Tribunal 
has no jurisdiction to adjudicate in so far as the demand affects them. Shri Kolah 
has in support of this contention relied upon two decisions of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal, In the case of the Kannan Devan Hill Produce Ca, Ltd., Munnar and 
their workmen (1954 I.F.J. Vol. VII pages 460-461) and the Nellarmalai Jute Mills 
Co. Ltd., and their workmen 1955 1 LLJ page 167 at page 171), where It was held 
that as teachers did not perform manual or clerical work and as their main duty 
is to teach pupils which is entirely brain work, they must be held not to be 
“workmen” within the meaning of section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. Shri Kolah has also relied upon a decision of the State Industrial Court, 
Nagpur reported at 1957 II LLJ page 347, where it was held that a teacher could 
not be deemed a clerk nor could his work be considered to be clerical work. On 
these decisions, I hold that the catego'les in items Nos. 4 and 9 e.g. trained 
teachers and headmasters, are not workmen within the definition of section 2(s) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that, therefore, this Tribunal has no 
jurisdiction to entertain the same as In this Reference the award which I might 
give would result In determining what is the proper classification according to 
scales of pay of the trained teachers and headmasters and I would in fact be 
adjudicating upon what should be their proper scales of pay. 

7. With regard to health visitors, sufficient evidence or material has not been 
placed before me In respect of the nature of their duties to enable me to decide 
whether they are workmen or not. I shall deal with this objection of the manage- 
ment with regard to health visitors when I deal with the question on merits re- 
garding the other categories covered by this reference In respect of whom I have 
held that this reference Is competent. 

8. The third preliminary objection urged by the company in its written state- 
ment and at the hearing is that categories Nos. (2) compounders, (4) trained 
teachers, (6) health visitors, "(7) assistant foremen, (8J chief timekeeper (9) head- 
master, (16) peons and (3) electricians are not employed in the quarries and they 
are not on the muster roll of the ouarries but are paid on the pay sheets of the 
Kvmore Cement Works, and that, therefore, the reference with regard to them as 
employees of this quarry is incompetent. Of these 8 categories I have already- 
dealt with the case of trained teachers and headmasters who would be excluded 
on the ground that they are not workmen as defined by section 2(s) of the Act, 
and I have already stated that I shall deal with the case of the health visitors 
after I have discussed the demand with regard to him on the merits. With regard 
to the chief time keeper’s category the union at the hearing has dropped this claim. 
This category will therefore also be excluded. Of the remaining 4 categories. It 
is admitted that item No. 16 (peons) and item No. 31 (electricians) are daily 
rated operatives and therefore must be excluded. With regard to the remaining 
two categories— catpgn>des Nos. 2 and 7 — compounders and assistant foremen, the 
union’s contention Is that they are employed In the quarries though they may not 
be on the muster roll of "the ouarry. The union has stated that when their cases 
are den't with on the merits it would establish Its contentions. I shall, therefore, 
deal with this objection of the company with regard to category Nos. (2) 
comnounders (7) assistant foreman, when I hear the dispute with regard to them 
on the merits. 

9. With regard to the remaining categories, viz. No. 1, time keepers, No, 3 
Ouarry overmen and No. 5 Blasting supervisors, I am of the opinion that they 
foil in the class of clerical lower technical and supervisory staff and under the 
directions contained in the Wage Board’s Report the dispute with regard to their 
proper oo+eeorlsatton into the salary scales J to VII prescribed by paragraph 13, 
19, 1 of Wage Board’s recommendations would be competent. 

10. In the over all result, I uphold the preliminary oblections of the company 
and hold that this reference is Incompetent for the reasons stated for all the 34 




Sec. 3(H)] TH£ GA/£TTT£ Of IndIA : MAY 3, 1962 /VAisAlirfA iS, 1881 157-7 


categories mentioned in the order of reference save the except in respect of the 
following fl categories: — 


Item No. in the Schedule Category 


1 . 

2 . 

3. 

0 . 

6 . 

7. 


Time keeper. 
Compounders. 
Quarry Overmen. 
Blasting supervisors. 
Health Visitor. 
Assistant Foremen. 


whose cases will have to be considered at the adjourning hearing of this reference. 
Hearing adjourned to 12th February, 1902. 


Salim M. Merchant, 
Presiding Officer. 
[No. 22/14/61-LRII.j 

New Delhi, the 1st May, 1962 

S.O. 1357.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the West Jamuria and Jamuria 7/8 Pits Collieries and their work- 
men. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 2 of 1962 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the West Jamuria and Jamuria 7/8, Pita Collieries 

AND 

their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 

Dated, Dhanbad 16th April 1992 

Appearances : 

For the employers : — Shri Nalini Das Gupta, Advocate, with Shil R. CL 
Saraswat, Clerk Accounts Department. 

For the workmen: No appearance. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mining. 


AWARD 

The Central Government by the Ministry of Labour and Employment’s Order 
No. 2/200/61-LRII, dated 28th December 1961, made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between the 
parties abovenamed, in respect of the subject matters specified in the following 
schedule to the said order, to me for adjudication:— 

Schedule 


1. "Whether the non-employment of Shri Ramu Dusad, Peon, by the 

managements of West Jamuria Colliery and Jamuria 7/8 Pits 
Colliery is justified? 

2. Which of the aforesaid managements is responsible to give employment 

to Shri Ramu Dusad and what relief he is entitled to and from which 
management?” 



1578 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Part II 


2, After the General Secretary of the Colliery Mazdoor Congress, Asansol, had 
filed the written statement of claim dated 11th January 1962 on behalf of the 
workmen and aft-.r written statements were filed by the Manager, Jamuria 7 and 
8 Pits Colliery and by the Agent for the West Jamuria Coal Co. Ltd., in which 
both denied any liability in this matter, the dispute was fixed for hearing at 
Calcutta on 12th April 1062. However, on 11th April 1962 Shri Nalini Das Gupta, 
Advocate, with Shri R. C. Saraswat, Clerk, Accounts Department, appeared before 
me and filed a joint application, dated 10th April 1962 recording the terms of 
settlement which had been reached betwe?n the parties and prayed that an 
award be made in terms of the said settlement, The joint application has been 
signed on behalf of the employers by Shri S. K. Bhattacharya, Constituted 
Attorney of Messrs. Equitable Coal Co. Ltd., representing the employers in 
relation to Jamuria 7 and 8 Pits Colliery and by Shri D, P, Biyani, Agent, 
representing the employers in relation to West Jamuria Co.lliery. On behalf of 
the workmen the joint application has been signed by the General Secretary, 
Colliery Mazdoor Congress and by Shri Ramu Dosad round whos? non-employment 
this dispute centres. The case was thereafter called out at the hearing fixed on 
12t.h April 1962. but no one was present on behalf of either party because of the 
settlement already filed, 

3. The parties have prayed that an a-ward be made in terms of the settlement 
reached between them as recorded In their said joint application a copy of which 
is annexed hereto and marked annexure ‘A’. As it appears to me that in the 
facts and circumstances of the case the terms of settlement are fair and reason- 
able, 1 make an award in terms of the settlement recorded in the said joint 
application of the parties dated 10th April 1962, annexure ‘A’, which shall form 
part of this Award. 

No order as to costs. 

Salim M. Merchant, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 


BEFORE THE CHAIRMAN. CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD, AT 22. RAJA SANTOSH ROAD, CALCUTTA-27 


Reference No. 2 or 1962 


parties : 

Employers in relation to the West Jamuria Colliery and Jamuria 7/8 Pits 
Colliery 


AND 


Their workmen. 

The joint application of the parties above named most respectfully sheweth: 

That the Industrial Disnut.e in ttv* reference has been amicably settled between 
the parties on the following terms: — 

(a) Sri Ramu Dusad. the workman concerned shall be discharged from 

service on payment of a sum of Rs. 1,200 in full and final settlement 
of' a’l his claims and dues against either Ihe Management of West 
Jamuria Colliery or that of Jamuria 7 and 8 Pits Colliery. 

(b) Out of the aforesaid sum of Rs. 1,200 the Management of Jamuria 7 

and 8 Pits Colliery shall pay Rs. 400 as an ex-gratia amount. The 
balance of Rs. 800 shall be paid by the Management of West Jamuria 
Colliery, out. of which a sum of Rs. 200 has already been paid to 
Sri Dusad which has been duly receipted by the latter. The 
remaining sum of Rs. 600 shall be paid bv the Management of West 
Jamuria Colliery within the time specified below. 

(c) The -"svments as aforesaid shall be made by both the Managements 

within a month from the date of the Award which may he passed 
by the Hon’ble Tribunal in endorsement of this settlement. 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, J962/VAISAKHA 13, .1884 


The parties above-named therefore most humbly pray: 

That in view of the amicable settlement of the dispute an award may 
kindly be passed in terms of the Settlement and for this your 
petitioners shall ever pray. 

Dated 10-4-1902. 

Sdl- 

(S. K. Bhattacharya), 

Constituted Attorney of 
Messrs. Equitable Coal 
Co. Ltd., Representing 
the Employers in relation 
to Jamuria 7 and 8 Pits Colliery, 

Sd /- Illegible 
Agent, 

Representing the Employers in 
relation to West Jamuria Colliery. 

For the Workman, 

Sd/- Illegible 

General Secretary, 
Colliery Mazdoor Congress. 
Signature of the workmen. 

L.T.I. of Ramu Dosad. 

Certified by Sri Agarwal 
Welfare Officer, West 
Jamuria Colliery. 

Sd/- Agahwal. 

[No. 2/200/01-LRII.] 


S.O. 1358.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad In the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Central Kirkend Colliery and their workmen, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 22 or 1961 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Central Kirkend Colliery 

AND 


Their workmen. 


Present : 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, Presiding Officer. 
Dhanbad : Dated the 18th April 1962 


Appearances c 

For the employers:— Shrl M. N. Mukherjec, Head Clerk. 

For the workmen:— Shrl Ajodhya Prasad Gupta, Organising Secretary, Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh, 

State: Bihar, Industry: Coal. 


AWARD 

The Central Government by the Ministry of Labour and Employment's Order 
No. 2/57/61-LRII dated 15th April, 1961, made in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 



Ij8o THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Pa*T II 


(14 of 1947), was pleased to refer the Industrial dispute between the parties above- 
named in respect of the subject matters specified in the following schedule to the 
Said Order, to me for adjudication: — 

Schedule 

“Whether the management stopped the following 19 workmen from doing their 
work with effect from 12th December 1959? If so, to what relief are the workmen 
entitled?" 

Names of workmen. 

1. Shri Ruplal Bfcuiya. 

2. Shri RoucU Bhuia. 

3. Shri Sheobhajan Jada. 

4. Shri Jamuna Singh. 

5. Shri Radha Dusad. 

6. Shri Ramkhelan Bhula. 

7. Shri Bideshi Dusad. 

8. Shri Kalutan Ram. 

9. Shri Bhola Mahato. 

10. Shri Jaimangal Bhuia. 

11. Shri Subal Sikdar. 

12. Shri Sudama Pandey. 

13. Shri Karoo Bhula. 

14. Shri Rambhoji Bhuia. 

15. ShrT Ramdhln Nunla. 

16. Shri Kapura Kamin. 

17. Shri Palree Kamin. 

18. Shrl Sanva Kamin. 

19. Shri Budhia Kamin. 

2. After the parties had filed their written statements at the hearing of this 
dispute before me at Dhanbad on EBth April 1902 the parties filed the terms of 
settlement reached between them and have prayed that an award be made In terms 
of the said settlement. A copy of the joint application of the parties containing the 
terms of settlement Is annexed hereto and marked annexure ‘A’. In view of the 
fact that it is admitted that the colliery has closed down, the terms of settlement 
appear to be fair and reasonable and i therefore accept the settlement and make 
an award in terms of annexure ‘A’ which shall form part of this award. 

No order as to costs. 


Salim M. Merchant, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal,. 
Dhanbad. 


Annexure ‘A’ 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD. 

Reference No. 22 of 1961. 

Employers In relation to Central Kurkend Colliery. 

AND 

Their workmen. 

The Parties above-named most respectfully sheweth: — 

1. That in consideration of the fact that the Central Kurkend Colliery has been 
closed down and in view of the fact that various cases and references are pending 
between the parties, a memorandum of settlement dated 27th January 1962, was 
effected between the union representing the workmen and the employers to resolve 
all outstanding disputes, 

2. That without preludice to the contentions of the parties In the above reference 
It Is hereby agreed between the parties as follows: — 

(a) That all workers except those working as Trammers and Firemen in the 
Hard-Coke ovens on 12th December 1959, shall stand retrenched and 




Six. S(il)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 6, 1962/VAISAKHA 16, 1884 I5 gi 


paid compensation at the prescribed rate calculated for their length of 
service as hereinafter mentioned. 


(b) That all workmen working as Trammer and Fireman in hard coke oven 
on 12th December 1969 shall be paid an ex-gratia amount equivalent 
to ten days of total emoluments for every year of service with the 
management, calculated for their length of service as hereinafter 
mentioned. 


(c) That all workmen who have completed six years of service shall be paid 
retrenchment compensation at the prescribed rate for every year of 
service. 


(d) That all those workmen who have worked for more than six years shall 

be paid retrenchment compensation for the first six years of service aa 
per clause (c) above. They will be paid at the rate of fifteen day# 
total emo.uments for every two years of service over six years. 

(e) That those workmen who claimed to be in employment in the Colliery 

from before 1946 and about whom no record is available with tho 
management shall produce satisfactory evidence of their service and 
the management shall consider their past service for calculating re- 
trenchment compensation. 

(1) That the retrenchment compensation calculated at the above rate and tho 
length of service will be paid to the workmen within 16 days from the 
date of this agreement. 

Cg) That the parties will bear their respective costs of this proceeding. 


It is therefore prayed that the above compromise may be recorded and an 
Award passed in terms thereof. 


Ajodhya Pars ad Gupta, 
Organising Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh, Dhanbad. 
For Workmen. 

Dated the 18 th April 1062. 


(Sd.) Illegible. 
Director, 

Central Kurkend Coal Co. Ltd. 
For Employers. 

Dated the 18 th April 1962. 
[No. 2/67/61-LRII.l 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25 th April, 1902. 

S.O. 1359.—' Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Sltasongi mine of Seth 
Gopikisan Agarwal and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of f 947) . the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule. 

Whether the management of Sitasongi Manganese Mine of Seth R. S. Gopi- 
kisan Agarwal was justified and legally correct in terminating the 
services of (1) Bala s/o Sukha, (2) Kaloo s/o Tidakoo and (3) 
Klsan s/o Kodoo. If not what relief should be given to the workers 
and from what date, 

[No, 23/10/ 62-LRII.l 


New Delhi, the 28 th April 1962 

S.O. 1360. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Jealgora Gobindpur Colliery and their workmen in 
respect of the matter specified m the Schedule hereto annexed; 



THE GAZETTE OP INDIA ; MAY 3, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1884 [Past II 


I582 


And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferr >d bv section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
l n 47), the Central Government hereby constitutes un Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri Himanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal, 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Jealgora Gobindpur Colliery was justified in 
rendering their workmen idle from 1st January, 1902 and onwards. If not to 
what relief are the workmen entitled? 

[No. 1|1O|02-LRII.J 

S.O. 130I.--~Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Diamond Tetturia Colliery 
gnd their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hercbv constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with 
Shri Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as t.lv Presiding Officer, with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal, 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Diamond Tetturia Colliery was justified in ren- 
’derine Shri Ram Murat Pandey, office peon, idle from the 17th February, 1902. 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled? 

[No. 2I36I02-LRII.) 

S.O. 1362. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Ramkanali Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, m exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
'(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hfereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shn Hemanta Kumar Chaudhury as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at 
Patna, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of the following miners by the management of Ram- 
lianali Colliery from 25th December, 1961, was legal and proper; if not, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled: — 

1. Sri Chamari Bhuia. 

2. Sri Ramdhani Bhuia. 

3. Sri Kolia Bhuia. 

4. Sri Siba Bhuia. 

5. Sri Jugal Kora. 

6. Sri Jethu Bhuia. 

7. Sri Jamuna Bhuia. 

8. Sri Tekan Bhuia, 

9. Sri Anchhu Bhuia. 

10. Sri Sambhu Kora. 

11. Sri Bifan Bhuia. 

12. Sri Sipahai Bhuia, 

■ 13. Sri Mathur Bhuia, 

14. Sri Charkoo Bhuia, 

15. Sri Badha Kurmi. 

16, Sri Bapdhu Bhuia. 

17, Sri Sukhdeb Beldar. 

13. Sri Mungeswar Dusadh. 


[No. 2I33I62-LRIL] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 



Sec, 8(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1962/VAISAKHA 15, 1 B84 


ORDER. 

New Delhi, the 1st May, 1962 

S.O. 1363. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to M/S. M.K.R. & Co., Bombay, 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7-A, of the said Act. 

fit H H'.l )TTT .£ 

Whether the terms of settlement dated the 18th January, 1962, arrived at 
between Messrs. S. Vilas and Co., and other Iron and Manganese Ore contrac- 
tors and the Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Bombay, should be made appli- 
cable to Messrs. M.K.R. and Co., Bombay. 

[No. 28/8/62-LRIV.l 
B. R. SETH, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 27 th April 1962 

S.O. 1364.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6(1) of the Cinema- 
tograph Act, 1962 and proviso to sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1968 read With sub-rule (3) of rule 9 of the said Rules, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints Dr. Gaurinath Sastri and Shri Monishl 
Roy as members of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Calcutta for a further term of two years with effect from the 12th May, 1902. 

[No. F. 11/3/62-TC.] 
B. S. DASARATHY, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th April 1962 

S.O. 1866. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(2) of the Cine- 
matograph Act, 1962 read with rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1958, the Central Government is pleased to appoint Shri P. N, Kamath, Superin- 
tendent, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay, to officiate as Secretary to the 
Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay, with effect from the after- 
noon of 11th April, 1962 up to 22nd June, 1962, vice Shri V. S. Shroff granted 
leave. 


[No. F. 2/14/ 62-FC.l 
R. K. GOVIL, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DEI, HI, 1962 




