REGD , GOA - 5 


Panaji, 1st April, 1992 (Chaitra 12, 1914) 


SERIES I No. 52 


OFFICIAL 


GAZETTE 


a 


GOVERNMENT OF 

OF GOA 


EXTRAORDINARY 


No. 5 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA 

Legislature Department 


LA / B / 1090 / 1991 . 


( ii ) in respect of goods specified in the Third 
Schedule , at the rate of four paise in the rupee ; 

( iii ) in respect of goods specified in the Fourth 
Schedule , at the rate of twenty five paise in the 
rupee ; 

( iv ) in respect of goods specified in the Fifth 
Schedule , at the rate of seventeen paise in the 
rupee ; 

( v ) in respect of goods specified in the Sixth 
Schedule , at the rate specified under column 3 
therein ; 


The following Bill which was introduced in the 
Legislative Assembly of Goa on 31-3-92 is hereby 
published for general information in " pursuance of 
the provisions of Rule - 136 of the Rules of Procedure 
and Conduct of Business of the Legislative Assembly . 

Panaji, 1st April , 1992 . 


The Goa Sales Tax. ( Amendment) Bill, 1992 


( vi ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Seventh Schedule, at the rate specified under 
column 3 therein : 


(Bill No. 5 of 1992 ) 

A 

BILL 
further to amend the God Sales Tax Act, 1964 . 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa 
in the Forty -third Year of the Republic of India , as 
follows: 

1. Short title and commencement , - ( 1 ) This Act 
may be called the Goa Sales Tax (Amendment ) Act , 
1992 . 

( 2 ) It shall come into force at once . 

2. Amendment of section 2.- After clause (1) of 
section 2 of the Goa Sales Tax Act , 1964 (Act 4 of 
1964 ) (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal 
Act" ) , the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( la ) "Schedule means à Schedule appended to 

this Act ;" . 
3. Amendment of section 4. -- For sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 7 of the principal Act , the following shall 
be substituted , namely : --- 
" ( 1) The tax payable by a dealer under this Act 

shall be levied on the taxable turnover at 

the following rates , namely : 
(i) in respect of goods specified in the First 
Schedule , at the rate of twelve paise in the 
rupee ; 


(vii ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Eighth Schedule , at the rate of half paisa in the 
rupee ; 

(viii) in respect of the goods spécified in the 
Ninth Schedule , at the rate of one paisa in the 
rupee ; 

(ix ) in respect of the goods specified in the 
Tenth Schedule , at the rate of two paise in the 
rupee ; 

(x ) in respect of the goods specified in the 
Eleventh Schedule , at the rate of three paise 
in the rupee ; 

(xi) in respect . of goods specified in the 
Twelfth Schedule, at the rate of five paise in 
the rüpee ; 

( xii) in respect of goods specified in the 
Thirteenth Schedule , at the rate of six paise in 
the rupee ; 

(xiii ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Fourteenth Schedule , at the rate of eight paise 
in the rupee ; 

(xiv ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Fifteenth Schedule , at the rate of nine paise in 
the rupee ; 


PRZES.42981 SZAWOSP parave . 


w ... 


656 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT . OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) . 


SERIES I No. 52 . 


1ST APRIL , 1992 


( xv ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Sixteenth Schedule , at the rate of ten paise in 
the rupee ; 

( xvi) in respect of goods specified in the 
Seventeenth Schedule , at the rate of eleven paise 
in the rupee ; 


4. Substitution of Schedules , — For the existing 
Schedules appended to the principal Act, the follow 
ing shall be substituted , namely : 

" THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( i ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


1. Refrigerators and air - conditioning plants and component 

parts thereof . 
2. Wireless reception instruments and apparatus, radios and 

radio gramopinones, transistors, electrical valves , accu 
mulators, amplifiers and loud speakers and spare parts 
and accessories thereof . 


(xvii) in respect of goods specified in the 
Eighteenth Schedule , at the rate of thirteen 
paise in the rupee ; 

(xviii ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Nineteenth Schedule , at the rate of fourteen 
paise in the rupee ; 

( xix ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twentieth Schedule , at the rate of fifteen paise 


: in the rupee ; 


( xx ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty - first Schedule , at the rate of sixteen 
paise in the rupee ; 

(xxi) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty -second Schedule , at the rate of eighteen 
paise in the rupee ; 

(xxii) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty -third Schedule, at the rate of nineteen 
paise in the rupee ; 


3. Cinematographic equipment including cameras, projectors , 

and sound recording and reprodụcing equipment, record 
ing tape, lenses and parts and accessories required for 

use therewith . 
4. All clocks, tinie - pieces and watches and parts thereof , 
5. Iron and steel safes and almirahs. 
6. All arms including rifles , revolvers, pistols and ammuni 

tion for the same. 
.7 . Cigarette cases and lighters . 
8. Tape recorders, dictaphone and other similar apparatus 

for recording sound and spare parts thereof . 
9. Sound transmitting equipnient including telephones and 

loud speakers and spare parts thereof.. 
10. Typewriters , tabulating machines , calculating machines 

and duplicating machines and parts thereof . 
11. Binoculars, telescopes and opera, glasses . 
12. Gramophones and component parts thereof. 
13. Gramophone records . 
14. Domestic electrical appliances including fans and fluores 

cent lighting tubes , but other than torches , torch cells 

and filainent lighting bulbs . 
15. Perfumes, depilatories, cosmetics and toilet articles ex 

cluding soap in all its forms, Chair oils, shaving brushes , 

toothbrushes and dentifrices , 
- 16. Vacuum flasks of all kinds including thérnoses. 
17. Iron and steel furniture , 
18. Sheets, cushions, pillows, mattresses and other articles 

made of foam rubber or plastic foam or other synthetic 
foam . 


(xxiii) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty - fourth Schedule , at the rate of twenty 
paise in the rupee ; 


( xxiv ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty -fifth Schedule , at the rate of twenty one 
paise in the rupee ; 

(xxv ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty - sixth Schedule , at the rate of twenty 
two paise in the rupee ; 


19. - Country liquor other than urac and feni ( cashew / coconut). 

and country llquor manufactured from Mahuwa flowers 
popularly known as Bevda in the Districts of Daman 
and Diu . 


(xxvi ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty - seventh Schedule, at the rate of twenty 
three paise in the rupee ; 

( xxvii ) in respect of goods specified in the 
Twenty - eighth Schedule, at the rate of twenty 
four paise in the rupee ; 

( xxviii) in respect of any other goods , at the 
rate of seven paise in the rupee ; 


+ 


Provided that the Government may, by Noti 
fication in the Official Gazette , add to , or omit 
from , or otherwise amend any of the Schedules, 
without affecting the entries in the Second 
Schedule : 


20. Table cutlery including knives, forks and spoons. 
21. Carpets and durries except made of khadi or of handloom . 
22. Ivory articles, including articles inlaid with ivory . 
23. Ladies hand - bags and vanity bags , 
24. Playing cards. 
25. Furs and articles of personal and domestic use made 

therefrom . 
26. Crockery . 
27. Leather goods other than footwear and sports goods . 
28. Adrema machines. 
29. Aeroplane and its spare parts . 
30. Explosives . 
31. Marble and all articles made of marble . 
32. All kinds of laminates such as forinica , suomica , decolam 

and others of similar kind . 
33. Commercial electrical appliances . 
34. Television cameras, video televisions, video cassettes, 

video players , parts , accessories and components of any 
of them except those parts, accessories and components 
which are primarily meant for use as raw materials in the 
manufacture and sale of cameras, video televisions , video 
cassettes and video players by Industries registered with 
the prescribed authorities and certified by the Directorate 
of Industries , Panaji .. 


Provided further that if in respect of any 
goods or class of goods the Government is of 
opinion that it is expedient in the interest of 
the general public so to do ; it may , by Notifica 
tion in the Official Gazette, direct that the tax 
in respect of the taxable turnover of such goods 
or class of goods shall, subject to such conditions 
as may be specified , be levied at such modified 
rate not exceeding the rate applicable under 
this sub - section , as may be specified in the 
Notification ." 


$ 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


657 
1ST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES I No. 52 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


( See Section 10 ) 


36. Bullock , carts and spare parts thereof. 
37. Chillies, chilly powder, tamarind and turmeric, whole 

or powdered , except when sold in sealed metallic or 

plastic containers . 
38. Coconut in shell and separated kernel of coconut other 


than copra . 


39. Farsan . 
40. Films certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 

to be predominantly educational in nature . 
41. Flowers ( excluding artificial flowers ) . 


42. Flower , fruit and vegetable seeds excluding raw cashew 

nuts ; seeds of lucerne, and other fodder grass ; seeds 
of sann hemp bulbs ; croms; rhizomes suckers and 
tubers ; budgräfts , cuttings, layers and seedlings; plants . 


43. Plaintain leaves , patravalls and dronas. 


44. Handloom fabrics of all varieties exclusive of pile car 

pets , braids, borders, laces and trimmings. 


Tax - Free Goods 
1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice ( except 

when sold in sealed metallic or plastic containers ). 
2. Flour Including atta , maida , suji and bran ( except when 

sold in sealed metallic or plastic containers ) . 
-3 . Bread , 
4. Meat ( except when sold in sealed metallic or plastic 

containers ) . 
5. Fish ( except when sold in sealed metallic or plastic 

containers ) , 
6. Fresh eggs . 
7. Live stock including poultry . 
8. Vegetables, green or dried ( excluding dehydrated vegem 

tables ) and vegetable seeds and plants , other than me 
dical preparations ( except when sold in sealed metallic 

containers ) .. 
9. Fresh fruits . 
10. Sugar , gur , molasses and sugarcane. 
11. Salt . 
12. Fresh milk , whole or separated and milk products made 

exclusively out of milk , without addition or admixture 

of any other ingredients : 
13. Ghee . 
14. Dahi, butter and khoa . • 
15. All variétles of cotton , woolen , rayon or artificial silk 

fabrics. 
16. Cotton yarn including cotton thread. 
17. Newsprint and white printing paper. 
18. School exercise and drawing books, 
19. All books and periodicals . 
20. Fuel wood and charcoal. 
21. Agricultural implements. 
22. Matches . 
28. Cattle feeds including fodder, poultry feed and pig feed . 
24. Electrical energy . 
25 : Water but not aerated water or mineral water or water 

sold in bottles or sealed containers. 
26. Raw wool. 
27. Tobacco and all its products . 
28. ( i ) Country - made shoes 

When manufactured . 
( Juties ) . 
( it) Hand -made utensils ( 1). without the 

power , and 
( iii) Cane and bamboo ( ii ) at a place other than . 
handicrafts . 

a factory as defined in 
( iv ) Earthenwares made 

the Factories Act , 1948 
by Kumbhars . 

and sold either by the 
maker himself or by 
any member of his 
family or by a co -ope 
rative society consist 
ing wholly 

the 
makers of such arti 
cles. 


45. " Khadi ” and ready -made garments and other articles 

prepared from Khadi. 
Explanation . For the purpose of this entry " Khadi” 
means any cloth woven on handioom in India from 
cotton , silk or woolen yarn hand- spun in India or from 

the mixture of any two or all such yarns . , 
46. Products of village Industries as defined in the Khadi 

and Village Industries Commission Act , 1956 . 
47. ( 1) Handloom and parts thereof . 
( u ) the following handloom accessories , namely : 

( a ) Rach 
( b ) Fani 
( c ) Cotton healds 
( d ) Shuttles 
( e ) Bobbins 
( f ) Pins 
( g ) Pickers. 


use 


(iii) The following handloom auxiliary machines namely : 

( a ) Warping frames w ked by hand. 
( b ) Sectional drum type warping machine worked 

by hand and V - shaped creel used therewith . 
( iv ) The following attachment to handlooms damely : 

Wooden dobbies . 
48. Kumkum including liquid kumkum. 
49. Mangalsutra with black glass beads sold at a price not 

exceeding ten rupees each . 
50. Bangles of glass and plastic . 
51. Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons . 
52. Stamp-papers and stamps sold by vendors duly authorised 

under the provisions of the Indian stamps Act, 1899 , and 

the Court Fees Act, 1870 . 
53. Medicinal mixtures prepared by any registered pharmacy 

or dispensary , under the prescription of a registered 

medical practitioner . 
54 , Condoms and the advertising and publicity materials 

relating thereto . 
55. Mineral ores . 
56. Mango stone and mango kernels . 
57. Chloroquine including Nivaquin , Camoquin and Resochin 

tablets . 
68. Gobar gas plants and its components namely ( 1) Biogas 

engines ; ( ii) biogas plants and ( iii ) biogas holders and 
chulhas ( burner ) ; ( iv ) agricultural and municipal waste 

conversion devices producing energy. 
59. Solar energy equipment, namely (i) Solar water heaters 

and systems; (ii) Solar crop driers and systems ( lli ) 
Solar refrigerations, cold storage and air -conditioning - 
systems; (iv ) Solar stills and desalination systems; ( v ) 
Solar pumps based on Solar thermal and solar photovoltaic 
conversion ; ( vi ) Solar power generating system ; ( vii ) 
Solar cookers ; (viii ) Concentrating and pipe type solar 


of 


29. Achar and Murraba except when sold in sealed con 

tainers 
30. Charkha , takli and charkha accessories . 
81. Slate , slate pencils, takhties, black ink used for takhties , 

writing chalks, crayons, foot rules of the type used in 

schools , Kalams (pens used for takhties.). 
32. Betal leaves . 
33. Bardana including hessian cloth , iron strips and wooden 

and tin packing , the sale of which is incidental to dealings 

in any of the other goods mentioned in this Schedule . 
34. Cotton padding : 
35. Articles and utensils made of Kansa (bellmetal) . 


Zapatos - 

xxxx 


PWdAnAX 


658 
SERIES I NO . 52 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


1ST APRIL , 1992 


collectors ; ( ix ) flat plate solar collectors ; ( x ) Solar photos 
voltaic modules and panels for water pumping and other 
applications; ( xi) Black continuously plated solar selec .. 
tive coating sheets (in cut length or in coils ) fins and 
tubes ; (xii ) Vacum tube solar collectors ; (xii ) Solar 

Photovoltaic cells, modules and other systems /devices . 
60. Windmills and any specially designed devices which are 

powered by wind energy including electric generators, 

pumps powered by wind energy; 
61. Electrically operated vehicles including battery powered 

or fuel- cell powered vehicles ; 
62. Equipments for utilising ocean waves and thermal energy 

In the oceans ; 
63. ( i). Stirling engine ; (ii) Solid briquettes made of agricul 

tural/ urban wastes; (il ) Briquettes manufacturing plant 
and machinery ( iv ) Thermal efficient improve cook - stove 
( chulha ) ; ( v ) Biomass based Stirling Engines ; ( vi ) Plant, 
machinery , equipment, raw material required for Indus 

trial/Distillery effluent treatment plants. 
64. The following life -saving drugs : 

(1) Amylobarbitone Sodium Injection ; 
( ii ) Pnentoin Sodium Injection (Dilantin ) ; 
(iii ) Isoprenaline Injection ; 
( iv ) Edrephonium Choloride Injection ( Tension ) ; 
( v ) Amino Caproic Acid Injection (Ailcar ) ; 
( vi) Trasylol Injection ; 
( vii) Diazepan Injection ; 
(vill) Streptokinase Injection ; 
( ix ) Polymysin Sulphate Injection ; 
( x ) Colistin Sulphate Tablets and Injection ; 
( xi) Colistin Sulphomethate Injection ; 
(xii ) Methicillin Sodium Injection ; 
(xiii) Glaxocillin Sodium Injection and Capsules ; 
(xiv ) Gentamicin Sulphate Injection (Geramycin ) ; 
(xv ) Carbomicillin Injection (Pyopen ) ; 
(XVI) Trimetheprin / Sulphamethazazole Tablets 

( Septrin ) ; 
(xvii) 5 - Flourouracil Injection ; 
( xvili ) Methotrexate Injection and Tablets ; 
(xIx ) Lincomicin Hydrochloride Injection and Cap 

sules ; 
( xx ) Thiotepa Injection ; 
(xxi) Actionomycin D Injection ; 
( xxil ) Vinblastine Sulphate Injection ; 
( xxiii) Vínoristine Sulphate Injection ; 
( xxiv ) Mytomycin C.Injectiori ; 
(XXV ) Dopa and its Capsules ; 
(xxvi) Rifamycin Capsules ; 
( xxvii ) Chorionic Gondadotrophin Injection ( Antin 

trons ) ; 
(xxviii) Allopurinol Tablets (Zytone) ; 
( xxix ) Belcomycin Injections ; 

( XXX ) Oral Rehydration Salt (ORS ) . 
65. Bicycles , bicycle tyres and tubes . 
66. Certified seeds of pulses and oil seeds . 
67. Nutan Kerosene stoves . 


15 years or upto the reaching of a tax liability amount.. 
equal to the capital cost of the Industry invested in 
land, building and machinery only , whichever is later . 
Provided that 
(i ) The Small Scale Industry is also registered as 

such Small Scale Industry with the Directorate 

of Industries , Government of Goa . 
( ii ) In the case of a Small : Scale Industry , which 

has been established by transferring the ownership , 
shifting or dismantling of a Small Scale Industry , 
the first sale for the purpose of this notification 
shall be deemed to be the sale effected by the 
erstwhile Small Scale Industry since the first com 
mencement of the nianufacture , processing or 
assembling by it notwithstanding the transfer of 
ownership , shifting or dismantiing of such Smal} 

Scale Industry . 
( Ilf ) In the case of a Small Scale Industry enjoying 

the benefit of five years exemption urider entry 
68 as it stood immediately prior to 1-7-1983 it shall 
continue to enjoy the exemption , for the balance 
of the unexpired period of five years and on expiry 
of such period of five years , if the expiry date 
falls on or after 1-7-1983 for a further period . 

of ten years from such expiry date . 
( iv ) Such Small Scale Industry produces a Certificate 

from the Directorate of Industries , Government of 
Goa at the end of every 3rd year to the effect 
that the unit is still running . 

The Assessing Authority.may, however, dispense 
with the production of the said certificate if he 
is satisfied from other evidence adduced that the 
industry has actually been in the production during 
the relevant period and the sales of goods manu 
factured , processed or assembled by such industry 
have been duly claimed in the quarterly returns 
filed as per the provisions of the Act; within the 

time limit prescribed . 
( v } The Small Scale Industry set up or after 

1-7-1983. produces a Certificate from the Directoa 
rate of Industries , Government of God that the 

said Industry is not of high pollutant nature . 
(vl) Notwithstanding anything contained in the afore 

said provision , the subsequent sales of goods 
covered by this entry made by any of the dealers 
registered under the said Act, shall also be deemed 
to have been so covered under this entry , subject 
to the condition that the subsequent selling dealer 
claiming exemption , furnishes to his Assessing 
Authority 

declaration obtained from selling 
Small Scale Industry or from each of the subsequent 
sellers in series of sales by successive dealers, as 
the case may be in the specified form and manner : 
and also render true and complete account of all 
the purchases , sales and stocks of goods made by 
him from Small Scale Industries availing benefit 

of the entry . 
Provided further that the benefit of exemption from tax 
under the Goa Sales Tax Act, 1964 under this entry shall 
not be available to Small Scale Industries of high polluting 
nature as declared by the Central Government and mentioned 
in the Annexure herebelow which will be set up within the 
State of Goa on or after 1-7-1983 . 


on 


4 


3 


a 


68. Any goods manufactured , processed or assembled in the 

State of Goa by any Small Scale Industry set up on 
or. after 1-7-1983 , which has not gone into production 
and has not effected any sale of the goods manufactured , 
: 1-7-1983 or assembled by it on any date prior to : 

point of sale made by such Small Scale 
Industry for a period of fifteen years from the date 
of first sale of the goods manufactured , processed or 
assembled, effected by such Small Scale Industry, on or . 
after the date of its registration under the Goa Sales 
Tax Act , 1964. 


ANNEXURE 
Industries of high polluting nature declared by 

Central Government . 
(1) Primary metallurgical producing industries viz :- , 

zinc, lead, copper , aluminium and steel; 
( ii) Paper , pulp and newsprints ; 
( ii ) Pesticides / insecticides ; 
( iv ) Refineries ; 
( v ) Fértilizers ; 
( vi ) Paints ; 
( vii ) Dyes ; 
( viii) Leather tanning ; 
(ix ) Rayon ; 
( x ) Sodium / Potassium Cyanide; 
( xi). Foundry ; 


Notwithstanding, anything contained hereinabove but 
subject to other provisions of this entry, any Small 
Scale Industry set up on or after the first day of Octa 
ber, 1991, and which has not effected any sale of goods 
manufactured , processed or assembled by it on any 
date prior to the first day of October, 1991, shall be 
entitled for the benefit of this entry for a period of 


. 


. 


Coro 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


659 
1ST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES I No. 52 


( iii ) In case of Medium /Large Scale Industry which 

was established by transferring the ownership , shift 
ing or dismantling of a Medium /Large Scale Industry , 
the first sale for the purpose of this entry 
shall be deemed to be the sale effected by the 
erstwhile Medium /Large Scale Industry since the 
first commencement of the manufacture, processing 
or assembling by " it notwithstanding the transfer 
of ownership , shifting or dismantling of such Me 
dium / Large Scale Industry ; 


(xii ) Basic drug ; 
( xiii ) Storage batteries ( lead acid type ) ; 
( xiv ) Acids /Alkalis ; 
(xv ) Plastics ; 
(xvi ) Rubber - synthetics ; 
( xvii ) Cement; 
(xviii ) Asbestos ; 
(xix ) Fermentation industry ; and 

( xx ) Electroplating. 
69. Calcind petroleum coke. 
70. Disposable syringes and needles. 
71. Baby food ( cereais ) except baby milk . 
72. Hosiery (machine knitted cotton goods like banians, 

chaddies / jangias, cotton mufflers, topas, stockings, 

socks, handgloves ) . 
73. Sport.goods. 


( iv ) Medium /Large Scale Industry produces a Certificate 

obtained from the Directorate of Industries , Govern 
ment of Goa at the end of every 3rd year to the 
effect that the unit is still running : 


The Assessing Authority may, however , dispense with 
the production of the said certificate if he is satisfied 
from other evidence adduced that the industry has actually 
been in the production during the relevant period and 
the sales of goods manufactured , processed or assembled 
by such Industry have been duly claimed in the quar 
terly returns filed as per provisions of the Act, within 
the time limit prescribed . 


74. Toys. 


75. Kerosene. 


76. Liquified petroleum gas used for household purposes. 
77. Sprinkles Irrigation system and the Drip Irrigation 

system . 
78. Electronic goods manufactured and sold by the units 

established in Goa . 
79. Computers manufactured and sold by the units esta 

blished in Goa . 


( v ) in the case of Small and Medium Scale Industries 

which graduate into Medium and Large Scale Indus 
tries respectively , the benefit of exemption from 
tax shall be available in such Industries for a period 
of ten years or five years respectively, from the date 
of first sale / consignment/ branch transfer as the case 
may be after their graduation into Medium or Large 
Scale Industries provided that such Industries produce 
necessary certificate to this effect from the Direc 
torate of Industries, Panaji and / or the respective 
Registering Authority . 


80. Biscuits ( not packed ) ; toasts , cakes (locally manufac 

tured ) and pastries. 


ANNEXURE 


81. Silk fabrics . 


82. Karanji oil. 
83. Kitchen ware (all kinds) used for cooking. 
84. Pressure cookers . 
85. Any goods manufactured , processed or assembled in the 

State of Goa by any Medium / Large Scale Industry 
except those of high polluting nature as declared by the 
Central Government and mentioned in the Annexure 
appended hereto , set up on or after 23-4-1987 which 
has not gone into production and has not effected any 
sale of the goods manufactured , processed or assembled 
by them on any date prior to 23-4-1987 at the point 
of sale made by such Medium /Large Scale Industry 
for a period of ten years / five years, respectively , from 
the date of first sale , or from the date of first 
signment / branch ,transfer as the case may be, of the 
goods manufactured , processed or assembled , effected by 
such Medium or Large Scale Industry on or after the 
date of its registration under the Goa Sales Tax Act, 
1964 . 


Industries of high polluting nature as declared by 

the Central Government 
( i) Primary metallurgical producing industries viz : 

Zinc, lead , copper , aluminium and steel; - 
( ii ) Paper , pulp and newsprints ; 
( ii ) Pesticides / insecticides ; 
( iv ) Refineries ; 

( v ). Fertilizers ; " 
( vi) Paints ; 
( vii ) Dyes ; 
( viii) Leather tanning ; 
( ix ) Rayon.; 

( x ). Sodium / Potassium cyanide ; . 
(xi) Foundry ; 
(xii ) Basic drug ; 
(xiii) Storage batteries (lead acid type ) ; 
(xiv ) Acids/ Alkalis ; 

( xv ) Plastics ; 
(xvi ) Rubber -synthetics ; 
(xvii ) Cement ; 
( xviii) Asbestos ; 
( xix ) Fermentation industry ; and 
(xx ) Electroplating : 


Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove but 
subject to other provisions of this entry , any Medium / 

/Large Scale Industry set up on or after the first day 
of October , 1991, and which has not gone into production 
and has not effected any sale of goods manufactured , 
processed or assembled by it on any date prior to the 
first day of October , 1991, shall be entitled to the benefit 
of this entry for a period of 12 years or till the reaching 
of a tax liability amount equal to the capital cost of 
the industry invested in land, building and machinery 
only , whichever is later . 


NE 


Provided that 
( i) The Medium / Large Scale Industry referred to here 

in above is also registered as such Industry with 
the Directorate General of Technical Development, 
New Delhi have been issued Industrial Licence under 
Industries Development and Regulation Act, 1951 by 
the Government of India in the concerned Ministry 
or such other Registration Authority as the case 
may be ; 


Provided further that nothing contained in the aforesaid 
provisions, shall affect the subsequent sales of goods covered 
by this entry made by any of the dealers registered under 
the said Act , which shall also be deemed to have been so 
covered under this entry , except goods , manufactured by 
Industries of high polluting nature as specified in the 
Annexure , subject to the condition that the subsequent selling 
dealer claiming exemption , furnishes to his Assessing 
Authority a declaration obtained from selling Medium Scale 
Industry /Large Scale Industry or from each of the subsequent 
sellers in series of sales by successive dealers as the case 
may be , in the specified form and manner and also renders 
true and complete account of all the purchases, sales and 
stocks of goods made by him from Medium Scale Industry / 
/Large Scale Industry availing benefit of the entry , 
86. Black muster , corriander seeds, methi, jeera and khaskas. 
87. Pens costing less than Rs. 10 / 
88. School bags .. 


(ii ) Such Medium or Large Scale Industry produces a 

Certificate from the Directorate of Industries , GÓ 
vernment of Goa that the Industry is not a high 
polluting Industry ; 


" 


660 
SERIES . I No. 52 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


1ST APRIL ; 1992 


89. Crash helmets . 
90. Tricycles . 
91. Ice . 
92. Rakhi. 
93. (i) paper ( ii ) maps (iii ) charts (iv ) globes . ( v ) Instru 

ments for educational purpose . 
94. Footwear when sold at a price not exceeding Rs. 100 / 


Notes : ( 1 ) The average price per item / dish shall be cal 
culated by dividing the sum total of prices prevailing on 
the last day of the previous year by the number of item / 
/ dishes covered in the menu card . 

( 2 ) Every registered dealer effecting sales of cooked food 
and non - alcoholic drinks shall make a declaration before the 
Appropriate Assessing Authority within 30 days from the 
commencement of the year , specifying the items/ dishes 
normally sold or served or supplied by him alongwith their 
respective prices prevailing on the last day of the previous 
year . 

( 3 ) În calculating taxable turnover, sales of cooked food 
and non -alcoholic drinks purchased locally on payment of 
tax shall be excluded . 


per unit. 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( ii ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
(See clause ( vi) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


1. Hides and skins .. 
2. Coal. 
3. Cotton . 
4. Iron and steel . 


With the meaning as it is 

attributed to these items by 
Section 14 of the Central 
Sales Tax Act , 1956 as 
amended from time to time. 


Sr. No. 


Description of goods 


Rate of tax 


1 


2 


3 


1 . 


Plant and machinery including 


Twelve per cent 


cranes 


5. Jute . 
6. Oil seeds . 
7. Artifieial silk yarn . 
8. Tyres and tubes of sizes 1200X24 and above and flaps 

thereof. 
9. Crude oil with the same meaning as is assigned to it 

by clause ( iic ) of Section 14 of the Central Sales Tax 
Act , 1956 as amended from time to time. 


2 . 


3 . 


Television sets , video cassettes re Twelve per cent 

corders and players, prerecorded 
video cassettes and video game 

equipments . 
Furniture of all kinds. 

Twelve per cent 
Crockery of all kinds. 

Twelve per cent. 
Any item to be specified by Govern- Twelve per cent 

ment by notification . 


4 . 


5 . 


THE FOURTH SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( iii) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


THE FIFTH SCHEDULE 


THE EIGHTH SCHEDULE 
(See clause ( vii ) of sub - section ( 1) of Section no ) 
1. Tractors. 


( See clause ( iv ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 
1. Indian Made Foreign Liquor as defined in Goa , Daman 

and Diu Excise Duty Act , 196 4 ( Act 5 of 1964 ) ; 
2. Foreign Liquor as defined in Goa , Daman and Diu 

Excise Duty Act ( Act 5 of 1964 ). 


THE NINTH SCHEDULE 


THE SIXTH SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( V ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 
Sales of cooked food and non - alcoholic drinks served 
or sold or supplied for consumption at or outside any eating 
house, restaurant, hotel, refreshment room or boarding esta 
blishment which is not a shop or establishment conducted 
primarily for sale of sweetmeats , confectionery , cakes, 
biscuits or pastries shall be taxed at the following rates : 


Sr. No. 


Rate of tax 


Conditions subject to which rate in 

column ( 3 ) is applicable 


2 


$ 


( 1 ) 


3 % 


( See Clause ( viii ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 
1. Edible oil. 
2. Hydrogenated vegetable oil including vanaspati . 
3. Readymade garments . 
4. Fertilizers and manures . 
5 Betal nuts , kat and edible lime. 
6. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats and 

vessels . 
7. ( a ) The following plant protection appliances : 

(i) Sprayers and dusters , both manual and power 

driven . 
( ii) Low volume atomisers for dusting and spraying 

as single or combined units. 
( iii) Fog generators . 
( iv ) Seed treating drums, both manual and power 

driven , 
( v ) Rat fumigation pumps. 
( vi ) Soil injectors . 
( vii ) Bird and animal scaring machines . 
( viii) Spare parts and accessories for hereinabove des 

cribed plant protection appliances . 
( b ) The following pesticides for plant protection : 

(i ) Insecticides and acaricides. 
( ii ) Fungicides 
( ii ) Moluscides . 
( iv ) Herbicides (weedicides ) . 
( v ) Rodenticides . 
( vi) Germicides and bactericides. 
(vii ) Fumigants ., 


( 2 ) 


Where the average price per item / dish 
does not exceed Rs. 6 / - and / or the ma 
ximum price for any individual item / dish . 
does not exceed Rs . 10 / - . 
Where the average price per item / dish 
exceeds Rs. 6 / - but does not exceed 
Rs. 20 / - and /or the maximum price for 
any individual item / dish exceeds Rs. 10 / 
but does not exceed Rs. 40 / 
Where the average price per item / dish 
exceeds Rs. 20 / 


6 % 


( 3 ) 


12 % 


Exemption : 
No tax shall be leviable under this 

Schedule when the annual turnover 
does not exceed Rupees two lakhs 
and the average price per item /dish 
does not exceed Rs. 6 / 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF : GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY No. 57: 


661 
IST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES 1. No : 52 


THE TENTH . SCHEDULE 
( See clause ( ix ) of sub- section ( 1 ) of Sectiori ry 
1. Photographic and other cameras and enlargers, lenses, 

films and plates , paper and cloth and other parts and 

accessories . required for use therewith . 
2. Cabon black and rubber chemicals . 
3 : Milk products . 
4. Alluminium utensils . 
5 :- Cinematographic films. 
6. Tea and coffee . 

7. Sewing machines . 
.8. Roofing tiles. 
9. "Greeting cards, invitation cards, humour cards and 

picture post cards. 
10. Cashew kernels . 
11. Raw cashew nuts . 
12. Baby.milis. 


those television monitors and components, parts and 
accessories which are primärily meant for use as raw 
inaterials in the manufacture and sale of TV sets and 
antenas by industries registered with the prescribed 

authorities : and certified by Directorate of Industries 
:: and Mines , Panaji ... 
2: Close circuit television sets , their parts, accessories and 

components except those parts , accessories and compo 
nents which are primarily meant for use as raw mate 
rials in the manufacture and sale of close circuit - tele 
" vision sets by Industries registered with the prescribed 
authorities and certified by the Directorate of Industries 
and Mines, Panaji. 


THE SEVENTEENTH SCHEDULE 
( Sée clause ( avi) of Sub -section ( 1) of Section 7 ) 


THE EIGHTEENTH SCHEDULE 


( See clause (xvii ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section hy ) 


THE NINETEENTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (xviii ) of sub -section ( 1 ) ʻof Section 7 ) 


THE ELEVENTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (a ) of sub -section ( 1) of Section 1 ) 
1. Motor vehicles including chassis of motor vehicles. 
2. Motor cycles and cycle combination , motor scooters , 

motorettes and three wheelers.. 
3. Drugs and medicines ( including I. V. Drips) except those 

specified in entries. Nos .: 57 and 64 of the Second : Sche 

dule , 
4. Gold and silver ornaments not ccontaining any precious 

stones, synthetic or artificial stones or pearls whether 
real or cultured or any other variety of stones. 


THE TWENTIETH SCHEDULE 


( See clause (sic ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section :) 
1. Motor spirit which is commercially known as petrol, 

diesel oil, aviation spirit and aviation turbine fuel. 
2. Furnace oil and substitute furnao 

nace fuel including low 
Sulphur Heavy Stock . 
3.. Naphtha . 


> 


THE TWELFTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (ai). of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section ) . 
4.1. Spare parts of motor:: vehicles including batteries: 
2. Spare parts of motor cycles, motor scooters, motorettes 

and three wheelers . 


THE TWENTY -FIRST SCHEDULE 
( See clause (xx ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


THE TWENTY SECOND SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( xxi) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


THE TWENTY THIRD SCHEDULE 


THE THIRTEENTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (xii ) of sub - section ( 1) of Section 17 ) 

air of 
1. Motor tyres and tubes including flaps but excluding 

tyres, tubes and flaps specified in entry No. 8 of the 

third schedule . 
2. Tyres, tubes and flaps , of motor cycles , motor scooters , 

motorettes and three wheelers . 
3. Agarbatti, dhoop and loban . 
4. All kinds of wall and floor tiles (including glazed , 

vitrum , mosaic and plastic tiles ) . 


( See clause (xxii ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


: 


THE TWENTÝ FOURTH SCHEDULE 
(see clause ( xiii) of sub -section (1) of Section 1) 


THE TWENTY FIFTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (xxiv ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


- 


THE FOURTEENTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause ( iii ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section ) 
1 Cement. 
2. Articles of cement and asbestos. 


} 


: 


THE TWENTY SIXTH SCHEDULE 


( See clause ( XXV ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ) 


THE FIFTEENTH SCHEDULE 


( See clause: ( xiv ). of sub- section ( 1 ) of Section 7 ). 


THE TWENTY SEVENTH SCHEDULE 
. ( See clause ( xxvi). of sub -section 1). of Section 7 ) . 


THE SIXTEENTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (xv ) of sub -section ( 1) of Section ) 
-1 . Télévision sets and antenas , television monitors and 

components, parts and accessories of any of them except 


THE TWENTY EIGHTH SCHEDULE 
:( See clause :(xxvii ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 )." 


662 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

(EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


SERIES Y No. 52 


1ST APRIL , 1992 


Statement of objects and reasons 
Certain amendments to the Goa Sales Tax Act , 
1964 are necessary with a view to restructure the 
rate of tax leviable under the Act . It is also proposed 
to levy tax at different rates . In the Budget proposal 
presented to this August House , certain exemptions , 
reductions in rate of tax , enhancement of rate of 
tax have been proposed , This Bill seeks to give 
effect to the Budget proposal also . 


( b ) in respect of goods specified in the Third Schedule, 
at the rate of 4 paise in the rupee ;. 

(bb ) in respect of goods specified in the Fourth Sche 
dule , at the rate of 25 paise in the rupee ; 

( bbb ) in respect of goods specified in the Fifth Sche 
dule , at the rate of 17 paise in the rupee ; 

(bbbb ) in respect of goods specified in the Sixth Sche 
dule at the rate specified under column 3 therein ; 

( bbbbb ) in respect of goods specified in the Seventh 
Schedule at the rate specified under column 3 therein ; 

( c ) in respect of any other goods, at the rate of seven 
paise in the rupee : 


Provided that the Government may , by notification in 
the Official Gazette add to ," or omit from or otherwise 
amend the First and the Third Schedules, wihout affecting 
the entries in the Second Schedule : 


2 


Financial Memorandum 
No financial implications are involved towards 
implementation of provisions of this Bill since no 
additional expenditure shall be incurred on account 
of proposed amendment. The existing staff will 
attend to any work that may arise on account of 
introduction of provisions sought to be incorporated 
in the Act. 

The exact quantum of additional revenue that 
can accrue on account of the proposed measure can 
not be anticipated at this stage . 

Memorandum on Delegated Legislation 
Clause 2 of the proposed Bill enables the Govern 
ment, by notification in the Official Gazette to add , 
to omit from or otherwise amend any of the Sche 
dules without affecting the entries in the Second 
Schedule . The delegation is of the normal character . 


Provided further that if in respect of any goods or class 
of goods the Government is of opinion that it is expedient in 
the interest of the general public so to do, it may, by noti 
fication in the Official Gazette , direct that the tax in 
respect of the taxable turnover of such goods or class of 
goods shall, subject to such conditions as may be specified , 
be levied at such modified rate not exceeding the rate 
applicable under this sub - section as may be specified in 
the notification . 


Panaji 
31st March , 1992. 


RAVI S. NAIK 
Chief Minister 


Assembly Hall, 
31st March , 1992 


. 


M. M. NAIK 
Secretary to the Legislative 

Assembly of Goa 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( See clause ( a ) of sub - section . ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 
1. Motor vehicles including chassis of motor vehicles , spare 

parts of motor vehicles including batteries, motor tyres 
and tubes including flaps, but excluding tyres, tubes and 

flaps specified in the entry No. 11 of the Third Schedule . 
2. Motorcycles and i cycle combinations, motor scooters , 

motorettes and tyres, tubes, and spare parts of motor 

cycles ; motor scooters , motorettes. 
3. Refrigerators and air -conditioning plants and component 

parts . thereof... , 
4. Wireless reception instruments and apparatus, radios and 

radio gramophones , transistors , electrical valves , accumu , 
lators , amplifiers and loud speakers and spare parts and 

accessories thereof. 
5. Cinematographic equipment including cameras , projectors , 

and sound recording and reproducing equipinent, record 
ing tape , lenses , films and parts and accessories. required 
for use therewith excļuding films certified by the Central 
Board of Film Censors to be predominantly educational 
in nature . 


Legislative Assembly of Goa 


A : 


BILL 


A Bill to restructure the rates of sales tax leviable 
under the Act. 


The Governor has , in pursuance of article 207 
of the Constitution of India , recommended to the 
Legislative Assembly , the introduction and consi 
deration of the Goa Sales Tax ( Amendment ). Bill , 
1992 . 


6. Photographic and other cameras and enlargers ; Jenses , 

film and plates, paper and cloth and other parts and 
» .accessories required for use therewith . 
* All clocks , time-pieces and watches and parts, thereof. 
8. Iron and steel safes and almirahs. 
9. All arms including rifles, revolvers , pistols and ammuni 

tion for the same: 


M. M. NAIK 
Secretary, Legislature Department 


(Annexure to Bill No. 5 of 1992 ) 
GOA SALES TAX (AMENDMENT ) BILL , 1992 


THE GOA , DAMAN AND DIU SALES TAX ACT, 1964 

(Act 4 of 1964) 


10. Cigarette cases and lighters .: i ; *** 
11. Tape recorders, dictaphone and other similar apparatus 

for recording sound and spare parts thereof... 
12. Sound transmitting equipment including telephones and 

loud speakers and spare parts thereof. 
13. Typewriters , tabulațing machines, calculating machines 

and duplicating machines and parts thereof .: 
14. Binoculars, telescopes and opera glasses. 
15. Gramophones and component parts thereof. 
16. Gramophone records. 
17. Domestic electrical appliances , including fans and fluores 

cent lighting , tubes but other than torches, torch , cells 
and filament lighting bulbs. 


Section 4. Rate of tao . ( 1 ) The tax payable by a dealer 
under this Act shall be levied on the taxable turnover at 
the following rates, namely : 

( a ) in respect of goods specified in the first Schedule , 
at the rate of 12 paise in the rupee ; 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE 

GOVT . OF GOA 
( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


663 
1ST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES I No. 52 


4. Meat ( except when sold in sealed containers ). 
5. Fish (except when sold in sealed containers ). 


6. Fresh eggs. 


7. Live stock including poultry . 
8. Vegetables, green or dried ( excluding dehydrated vege 

tables ) and vegetable seeds and plants (other than 
medical preparations) ( except when sold in sealed con 
tainers ) . 


9. Fresh fruits. 


10. Sugar, gur, molasses and sugarcane. 


11. Salt . 


18. Perfumes , depilatories , cosmetics and toilet articles exclu 

ding soap in all its forms, hair oils , shaving brushes , 

toothbrushes and dentifrices . 
19. Vacuum flasks of all kinds including thermoses. 
20. Iron and steel furniture . 
21. Sheets, cushions, pillows, mattresses and other articles 

made of foam rubber or plastic foam or other synthetic 

foam . 
22. Country liquor other than urac and feni ( cashew / coco 

nut) and country liquor manufactured from Mahuwa 
flowers popularly known as Bevda in the Districts of 

Daman and Diu . 
23. Motor spirit which is commercially known as petrol, 

diesel oil, aviation spirit and aviation turbine fuel. 
24. Table cutlery including knives , forks and spoons . 
25. Carpets and durries except made of khadi or of hand 

loom but excluding durries of the size not exceeding 
30 sq . feet in area specified in the Entry No. 38 of the 

Second Schedule . 
26. Ivory articles, including articles inlaid with ivory . 
27. Ladies hand-bags and vanity bags . 
28. Playing cards. 
29. Furs and articles of personal and domestic use made 

therefrom . 
30. Crockery , 
31. Leather goods other than footwear ( and sports goods ). 
32. Adrema machines . 


12. Fresh milk , whole or separated and milk products made 

exclusively out of milk , without addition or admixture 
of any other ingredients . 


13 . 


14 . 


15. Ghee ( ............ ) 


16. Dahị, butter and khoa , 
17. All varieties of cotton , woollen , rayon or artificial silk 

fabrics . 


18. Cotton yarn including cotton thread. 
19. Newsprint and white printing paper . 
20. School exercise and drawing books. 
21. All books and periodicals . 


22 . 


33. Aeroplane and its spare parts . 
34. Explosives . 
35 Furnace oil and substitute Furnace Fuel including Low 

Sulphur Heavy Stock . 
36. All kinds of wall and floor tiles (including glazed , vitrum , 

mosaic marble & plastic tiles ) marble and all articles 
made of marble . 


23. Fuel wood and charcoal.. 


24. Agricultural implements . 


25. Matches . 


26. Cattle feeds including fodder, poultry feed and pig feed . 


37. All kinds of laminates such as formica , sunmica , decolam 

and others of similar kind . 
38. Naphta . 
39 . 


27 . 


28 , Electrical energy . 


. ? 


29. Fertilizers and manures including oil cakes , 
30. Water but not aerated water or mineral water or water 

sold in bottles or sealed containers . 


31. Raw wool, 


40. Television sets and antennas , television monitors and 

components , parts and accessories of any of them except 
those television monitors and components , parts and 
and accessories which are primarily meant for use as 
raw materials in the manufacture and sale of T. V. sets 
and antennas by Industries registered with the prescribed 
authorities and certified by Directorate of Industries , 

Panaji. 
41. Closed circuit television sets , cameras, video televisions , 

video cassettes , video players , parts, accessories and com 
ponents of any of them except those parts , accessories 
and components which are primarily meant for use as 
raw materials in the manufacture and sale of closed cir 
cuit television sets , cameras, video televisions, video cas: 
settes and video players , by industries registered with the 
prescribed authorities and certified by the Directorate 

of Industries , Panaji . 
42. Cement . : 
43. Articles of cement and Asbestos (other than those speci 

fied in entry No. 36 ) . 
44. Commercial electrical appliances ( other than those speci 

fied in entry No. 3 ) . 


32. Tobacco and all its products . 
33 . ( i) Country -made shoes When manufactured 

( Juties ) 
( ii ) Hand -made utensils 

(i ) without the use of 

power , and 
( iii ) Cane and bamboo 

(ii ) at a place other than 
handicrafts . 

a factory as defined in 

the 
( iv ) Earthenwares made 

Hactories Act , 
by Kumbhars 

3.948 and sold either by 
the maker himself or 
by any member of his 
family or by a co - ope 
rative society consis 
ting wholly of the 
makers of such arti 

cles . 
34. Achar and Murraba except when sold in sealed containers . 
35. Charkha , takli and charkha accessories . 
36. Slate , slate pencils, takhties, black ink used for takhties , 

writing chalks , crayons, foot rules of the type used in 

schools , Kalams (pens used for takhties ) . 
37. Betal leaves , betal nuts, kat and edible lime. 
38. Durries of the size not exceeding 30 sq . feet in area . 
39. Bardana including hessian cloth , iron strips and wooden 

and tin packing, the sale of which is incidental to dealings 
in any of the other goods mentioned in this Schedule . 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 

( See section 10 ) 


Tax - Free Goods 


1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice ( except 

when sold in sealed containers ) . 
2. Flour including atta , maida , suji and bran ( except when 

sold in sealed containers ) . 
3. Bread. 


664 
SERIES I No. 52 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


1ST APRIL , 1992 


40. Cotton padding . 
41. Articles and utensils made of Kansä (bellmetal). 
42. Bullock carts and spare parts thereof. 
43. Chillies , chilly powder , tamarind and turmeric, whole or 

powdered , except when sold in sealed containers. 
44. Coconut in shell and separated kernel of coconut other 

than copra . 


(v ) Rat fumigation pumps . 
( vi ) Soil injectors . 
(vii ) Bird and animal scaring machines . 
( viii ) Spare parts and accessories for hereinabove des 

cribed plant protection appliances . 


45 . 


46 . 


( b ) The following pesticides for plant protection : 

( i ) Insecticides and acaricides . 
( ii) Fungicides . 
( iii ) Moluscides. 
(iv ) Herbicides (weedicides ). 
( v ) Rodenticides . 
(vi) Germicides and bactericides . 
( vii ) Fumigants . 


47. Farsan . 


65. Medicinal mixtures prepared by any registered pharmacy 

or dispensary, under the prescription of a registered 
medical practitioner . 


48. Films certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 

to be predominantly educational in nature . 
49. Flowers (excluding artificial flowers ) . 
50. Flower , fruit and vegetable seeds; seeds of lucerne and 

other fodder grass ; seeds of sann hemp; bulbs ; croms; 
rhizomes suckers and tubers ; budgrafts, cuttings ; layers 

and seedlings ; plants . 
51. Plantain leaves, patravalis and dronas . 
52. Handloom fabrics of all varieties exclusive of handloom 

fabrics of pure silk , pile carpets, braids, borders laces 

and trimmings. 
53. “ Khadi" and ready -made garments and other articles 

prepared from Khadi. 


66. Condoms (and the advertising and publicity materials 

relating thereto ). 


" 67. Mineral ores. 


or 


68. Any goods manufactured , processed or assembled in the 

State of Goa by any Small Scale Industry set up on or 
after the date of : coming into force of this notification , 
which has not gone into production and has not effected 
any sale of the goods manufactured , processed 
assembled by it on any date prior to the date of coming 
into force of this Notification , at the point of sale made 
by such Small Scale Industry for a period of fifteen 
years from the date of first sale of the oods manufac 
tured , processed or assembled , effected by such Small 
Scale Industry on or after the date of its registration 
under the Goa Sales Tax Act , 1964 . 


Explanation · For the purpose of this entry " Khadi” means 
any cloth woven on handloom in India from cotton , silk or 
woolen yarn hand - spun in India or from the mixture of any 
two or all such yarns . 
54. Products of Village Industries as defined in the Khadi 

and Village Industries Commission Act , 1956 . 
55. ( i) Handloom and parts thereof . 
( ü ) The following handloom accessories , namely 

( a ) Rach 
( b ) Fani 
( c ) Cotton healds 
( d ) Shuttles 
( e ) Bobbins 
( f ) Pins 

( g ) Pickers 
( iii) The following handloom auxiliary machines namely : 

( a ) Warping frames worked by hand . 
( b ) Sectional drum type warping machine worked 

by hand and V -shaped creel used therewith , 
(iv ) The following attachment to handlooms namely : 

Wooden dobbies . 


Notwithstanding anything contained hereinabove 
but subject to other provisions of this entry , any 
Small Scale Industry set up on or after the first 
day of October , 1991, and which has not gone into 
production and has not effected any sale of goods 
manufactured , processed or assembled by it on any 
date prior to the first day of October , 1991, shall be 
entitled for the benefit of this entry for a period 
of 15 years or upto the reaching of a tax liability 
amount equal to the capital cost of the industry 
invested in land , building and machinery only 
whichever is later , 


Provided that - 


56. Kumkum (including liquid kumkum ). 
57. Mangalsutra with black glass beads sold at a price not 

exceeding ten rupees each , 
58. Bangles of price not exceeding rupee one per, pair . 
..59. Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons. 
60. Stamp- papers and stamps sold by vendors duly autho 

rised under the provisions of the Indian Stamps- Act, 

1899 , and the Court Fees Act, 1870 . 
61. ( ............ ) 
62. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats and 

vehicles, 


( i ) The Small Scale Industry is also registered as such 

Small Scale Industry with the Directorate of 

Industries , Government of Goa . 
(ii) In the case of a Small Scale Industry , which has 

been established by transferring the ownership 
shifting or dismantling, of a Small Scale Industry , 
the first sale for the purpose of this notification 
shall be deemed to be the sale effected by the 
erstwhile Small Scale Industry since the first 
commencement of the manufacture , processing or 
assembling by it notwithstanding the transfer of 
ownership , shifting or dismantling of such Small 

Scale Industry , 
( iii ) In the case of a Small Scale Industry enjoying the 

benefit of five years exemption under entry 68 as 
it stood immediately prior to the date of coming 
into force of this notification , it shall continue to 
enjoy the exemption , for the balance of the unexpired 
period of five years and on expiry of such period 
of five years, if the expiry date falls on or after 
the date of coming into force of this notification , 
for a further period of 70 years from such expiry 

date . 
(iv ) Such Small Scale Industry produces a Certificate 

from the Directorate of Industries, Government of 
Goa at the end of every 3rd year to the effect 
that the unit is still running . 
The Assessing Authority may, however , dispense 
with the production of the said certificate if he is 
satisfied from other evidence adduced that the 


63 . 


64. ( a ) The following plant protection appliances : 

(i) Sprayers and dusters, both manual and power 

driven . 
( ii) Low volume atomisers for dusting and spraying 

as single or combined units . 
( iii ) Fog generators , 
(iv ) Seed treating drums, both manual and power 

driven , 


--- 


h.......... 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT. OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


665 
1ST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES I No : 52 


industry has actually been in the production during 
the relevant period and the sales of goods manu 
factured , processed or assembled by such industry 
have been duly claimed in the quarterly returns 
filed as per the provisions of the Act, within the 

time limit prescribed : 
( V ) The Small Scale Industry set up on or after coming 

into force of this Notification produces a Certificate 
from the Directorate of Industries , Government of 
Goa that the said industry is not of high pollutant 
nature . 


( xii ) Vacuum tube solar collectors ; 
( xiii ) Solar Photovoltaic cells , modules and other 

systems /devices . 
71. B Windmills and any specially designed devices which 

are powered by wind energy including electric genera 

tors , pumps powered by wind energy ; 
71. C Electrically operated vehicles including battery powered 

or fuel- cell powered vehicles ; 
71. D Equipments for utilising ocean waves and thermal 

energy in the oceans; 
71. E Stirling engine; ( ii ) Solid briquettes made of agri. 

cultural /urban wastes ; (iii) Briquettes manufacturing 
plant and machinery ; ( iv ) Thermal efficient improve 
cookstove (chulha ) ; ( v ) Biomass based Stirling Engl , 
nes ; ( vi) Plant, machinery , equipment, raw material: 
required for Industrial / Distillery effluent treatment; 
plants . 


( vi) Notwithstanding anything contained in the afore 

said provision , the subsequent sales of goods covered 
by this entry made by any of the dealers registered 
under the said Act, shall also be deemed to have 
been so covered under this entry, subject to the 
condition that the subsequent selling dealer claiming 
exemption , furnishes to his Assessing Authority a 
declaration obtained from selling Small Scale 
Industry or from each of the subsequent sellers in 
series of sales by successive dealers, as the case 
may be, in the specified form and manner and also 
renders true and complete account of all the pur 
chases , sales and stocks of goods made by him 
from Small Scale Industries availing benefit of the 

entry : 
Provided further that the benefit of exemption from tax 
under the Goa Sales Tax Act, 1964 under this entry shall 
not be available to Small Scale Industries of high polluting. 
nature as declared by the Central Government and mentioned 
in the Annexure herebelow . which will be set up within the 
State of Goa on or after the coming into force of this 
Notification . 

ANNEXURE 
Industries of high polluting nature as declared by 

Central Government 
( 1) Primary metallurgical producing industries viz :-... 

Zinc, lead , copper , aluminium and steel; 
( ii) Paper , pulp and newsprints ; 
( lii ) Pesticides /insecticides ; 
( iv ) Refineries ; 
( v ) Fertilizers; 
( vi ) Paints ; 
( vii) Dyes ; 
( viii ) Leather tanning ; 
( ix ) Rayon ; 
( x ) Sodium /Potassium Cyanide ; 
( xi) Foundry ; 
(xii ) Basic drug ; 
( xiii ). Storage batteries (lead acid type) ; 
(xiv ) Acids/ Alkalis ; 
(xv ) Plastics ; 
(xvi) Rubber -synthetics . 
( XVü ) Cement ; 
: (xviii ) Asbestos ; 
(x1x ) Fermentation industry ; and, 

( xx ) Electroplating . 
( ..... 

.. ) 
69. Mango stone and mango kernels . 
70. Chloroquine ( including Nivaquin Cumoquin and Reso 

chin ) tablets . 


72. The following life -saving drugs : 

( i) Amylobarbitone Sodium Injection ; 
( il) Pnentoin Sodium Injection (Dilantin ) ; 
( ill ) Isoprenaline Injection ; 
( iv ) Edrephonium Chloride Injection ( Tension ) ; 
( v ) Amino Caproic Acid Injection (Amicar ) ; 
(vi) Trasylol. Injection ; 
( vii ) Diazepam Injection ; 
(viii ) Streptokinase Injection ; 
(ix ) Polymyxin Sulphate Injection ; 
(x ) Colistin Sulphate Tablets and Injection ; 
(xi) Colistin Sulphomethate Injection ; 
(xii ) Methicillin Sodium Injection ; 
(xiii ). Glaxocillin Sodium Injection and Capsules ; 
( xiv ) Gentamicin Sulphate Injection (Geramycin ) ; 
(xv ) Carbomicillin Injection (Pyopen ) ; 
( xvi) Trimetheprin / Sulphamethazazole Tablets 

(Septrin ) ; 
( xvii ) 5 - Flourouracil Injection ; 
( xviii ) Methotrexate Injection and Tablets ; 
( xix ) Lincomicin Hydrochloride Injection and Capa 

sules ; 
( xx ) . Thiotepa Injection ; 
( xx ) Actionomycin D Injection ; 
(xxii) Vinblastine Sulphate Injection ; 
( xxiii) Vinoristine Sulphate Injection ; 
(xxiv ) Mytomycin C Injection ; 
(XXV ) Dopa and its Capsules ; 
(xxvi) Rifamycin Capsules ; 
(xxvii ) Chorionic Gondadotrophin Injection ( Antin 

trons ) ; 
( xxviii) Allopurinol Tablets ( Zytone) ; 
( xxix ) Belcomycin Injections ; 

(XXX) : Orál Rehydration Salt (ORS) . 
73. Bicycles, bicyclë tyres and tubes . 
74. Certified seeds of pulses and oll seeds. 
75. Nutan Kerosene stoves. 
76 : Calcined Petroleum Coke. 
77. Drugs and Medicines (inclusive of I. V. Drips) . 
78. Disposable syringes and needles . 
79. Baby food ( cereals ), except baby milk . 
80. Hosiery (Machine knitted cotton goods like banians, 

chaddies / jangias, cotton mufflers, topas , stockings , 

socks, handgloves) . 
81. Sport goods. 
82. Toys . 
83. Kerosene . 
84. Liquifiéd Petroleum gas used for household purposes. 
85. Any goods manufactured , processed or assembled in the 

State of Goa by any Medium /Large Scale Industry 
except those of high polluting nature as declared by the 


.. 


71. Gobar gas plants and its components namely (i) Biogas 

engines ; ( i ) biogas plants , and ( ili ) biogas holders and 
chulhas (burner ) ( iv ) agricultural and municipal waste 

conversion devices producing energy.. ; 
71. A Solar energy equipment, namely ( i ) Solar water : 

heaters and systems ( ii) Solar crop driers and system ; 
( iii) Solar refrigerations, cold storage and air condi 
tioning systems; (iv ) Solar stills and desalination 
systems; ( v ) Solar pumps based on solar thermal 
and Solar photovoltaic conversion ; ( vi ) Solar power 
generating system ; ( vii) Solar cookers ; ( viii) con 
centrating and pipe type. solar , collectors ; ( ix ) flat 
plate solar collectors ; ( x ) Solar photovoltaic modules 
and panels for water pumping and other applications ; 
(xi) Black continuously plated solar selective coating 

i sheets (in cut length or in coils ) fins, and tubes ; 


. 


666 
SERIES I No. 52 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE - GOVT. OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


1ST APRIL , 1992 


87 . 


Central Government and mentioned in the Annexure 

( ix ) Rayon ; 
appended hereto, set up on or after the date of coming 
into force of this Notification , which has not gone into 

( x ) Sodium / Potassium cyanide ; 
production and has not effected any sale of the goods 

( xi) Foundry ; 
manufactured , processed or assembled by them on any 

( xii ) Basic drug ; 
date prior to the date of coming into force of this 
Notification , at the point of sale made by such Medium ) 

( xili ) Storage batteries (lead acid type ) ; 
/Large Scale Industry for a period of 10 years/5 years 
respectively , from the date of first sale, or from the 

(xiv ) Acids / Alkalis ; 
date of first consignment/branch tansfer as the case 

(xv ) Piastics ; 
may be, of the goods manufactured , processed or 
assembled , effected by such Medium or Large Scale 

(xvi) Rubber -synthetics ; 
Industry on or after the date of its registration under 

(xvii ) Cement; 
the Goa Şales Tax Act, 1964. 

(xviii ) Asbestos ; 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein above but 

( xix ) Fermentation Industry ; and 
subject to other provisions of this entry , any Medium /Large 
Scale Industry set up on or after the first day of October, 

( xx ). Electroplating : 
1991 , and which has not gone into production and has not 
effected any sale of goods manufactured , processed or 

Provided further that nothing contained in the aforesaid . 
assembled by it on any date prior to the first day of October , 

provisions, shall affect the subsequent sales of goods covered 
1991, shall be entitled to the benefit of this entry for a 

by this entry made by any of the dealers registered under 
period of 12 years or till the reaching of a tax liability 

the said Act, which shall also be deemed to have been so 
amount equal to the capital cost of the industry invested 

covered under this entry, except goods , manufactured by ™ 
in land, building and machinery only , whichever is later : 

Industries of high polluting nature as specified in the Anne 

xure , subject to the condition that the subsequent selling 
Provided that 

dealer claiming exemption , furnishes to this Assessing Autho- .. 

rity a declaration obtained from selling Medium Scale Indus- . 
( 1) The Medium /Large Scale Industry referred to herein try / Large Scale Industry or from each of the subsequent 
above is also registered as such Industry with the Direc sellers in series of sales by successive dealers as the case - 
torate General of Technical Development, New Delhi hàve 

may be, in the specified form and manner and also renders 
been issued Industrial licence under Industries : Develop 

true and complete account of all the purchases, sales and .. 
ment and Regulation Act , 1951 by the Government of 

stocks of goods made by him from Medium Scale Industry / 
India in the concerned Ministry or such other Registra 

Large Scale Industry availing benefit of the entry . 
tion Authority as the case may be ; 
( il ) Such Medium or Large Scale Industry produces a 

86. Sprinkler Irrigation system and the Drip Irrigation 
certificate from the Directorate of Industries, Government 

system . 
of Goa, that the Industry is not a high pollutant Industry ; 
(id ) In case of Medium /Large Scale Industry which was 

88 . 
established by transferring the ownership , shifting 
or dismantling of a Medium / Large Scale Industry, 

89. Electronic goods manufactured and sold by the units 
the first sale for the purpose of this Notification 

established in Goa . 
shall be deemed to be the sale effected by the 
erstwhile Medium /Large Scale Industry, since the 90. Computers manufactured and sold by the units establi 
first commencement of the manufacture, processing 

shed in Goa . 
or assembling by it notwithstanding the transfer 
of ownership , shifting or dismantling of such 91. Biscuits (not packed ) Toasts, Cakes . ( locally manufac.. 
Medium / Large Scale Industry ; 

tured ) and pastries. 
( iv ) Medium /Large Scale Industry produces a certificate 

obtained from the Directorate of Industries , Govern 
ment of Goa , at the end of every 3rd year to the · 

THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
effect that the unit is still running ; 

( See clause ( b ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 
The Assessing Authority may , however, dispense, with the · 
production of the said certificate if he is satisfied from other 1 . 
evidence adduced that the industry has actually been in the 

2. Kerosene 
production during the relevaät period and the sales of goods 
manufactured , processed or assembled by such Industry have 

3. Hades & Skins 
been duly claimed in the quarterly returns filed as per pro 

4 Coal 

With the same meaning at it 
visions of the Act, within the time limit prescribed . 

is attributed to these items . 

5. Cotton 
( v ) In the case of Small and Medium Scale Industries 

by section 14 of the Central 
which graduate into Medium and Large Scale Indus 8. Iron & Steel 

as 
Sales Tax Act , 1956 

amended , from time to time. 
tries respectively , the benefit of exemption from tax 7. Jute 
shall be available to such industries for a period of 

8. Oil seeds 
10 years or 5 years respectively , from the date of 
First sale / consignment/branch transfer as the case 9. Artificial silk yarn 
may be, after their graduation into Medium or 
Large Scale Industries provided that such Industries 10. Karanji oil 
produce a necessary certificate to this effect from 
the Directorate of Industries , Panaji and /or the 

1.1 . Tyres and tubes of sizes 1200X24 & above and flaps : 
respective Registering Authority . 

thereof. 

12 : Crude oil With the same meaning as is assigned to 
ANNEXURE . 

it by clause (itc ) of Section 14 of the Central Sales : 

Tax Act, 1956 as amended from time to time. 
Industries of high polluting nature as declared by the 

13. Baby foods. 
Central Government 

14. Edible oils . 
" ( 1) Primary metallurgical producing industries viz : 
Zinc, lead , copper, aluminium and steel; 

15. Hydrogenated vegetable oils , including Vanaspati. 
(ii ) Paper, pulp and newsprints ; 
( iii ) Pesticides / Insecticides ; 
(iv ) Refineries ; 

THE FOURTH SCHEDULE 
( V.); Fertilizers ; 
( vi ) Paints ;. 

(See clause (bb ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7) 
( vii ) Dyes ; 

1. Foreign liquor; as defined in the Goa , Daman and Diu 
( vili ): Leather tanning ; 

Excise Duty Act , 1964 (Act 5 of 1964 ). 


--.. - 

... W 


DY.NAVARR ..... 


OFFICIAL GAZETTE GOVT . OF GOA 

( EXTRAORDINARY No. 5 ) 


667 
1ST APRIL , 1992 


SERIES I No. 52 


THE FIFTH SCHEDULD 


(See clause (bbb ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 


1. , Indian made foreign liquor as defined in the Goa , Daman 

and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964 ( Act 5 of 1964 ) . 


THE SIXTH SCHEDULE 
( See clause (bbbb ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 
Sales of cooked food and non -alcoholic drinks served or 
sold or supplied for consumption at or outside any eating 
house , restaurant, hotel, refreshment room or boarding esta 
blishment" which is not a shop or establishinent conducted 
primarily for sale of sweetmeats, confectionery , cakes , bis 
cuits or pastries shall be taxed at the following rates: 


the last day of the previous year by the number of item / 
/ dishes covered in the menu card . 

( 2 ) Every registered dealer effecting sales of cooked food 
and non - alcoholic drinks shall make a declaration before the 
Appropriate Assessing Authority within 30 days from the 
commencement of the year, specifying the items/ dishes . 
normally sold or served or supplied by him alongwith their 
respective prices prevailing on the last day of the previous 
year . 

( 3 ) In calculating taxable turnover, sales of cooked food 
and non -alcoholic drinks purchased locally on payment of 
tax shall be excluded . 

( 4 ) In respect of the year 1990-91, the declaration required 
to be made under ( 2 ) above shall be furnished to the Appro 
priate Assessing Authority within 30 days from the date 
of publication of this Act in the Offficial Gazette . 


Rate of tax 


Sr. 
No. 


Conditions subject to which rate in 

Column (3 ) is applicable 


THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( See clause (hbbbb ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ) 


3 % 


Sr. No. 


Description of goods 


Rate of tax 


1 


2 


3 


6 % 


1 . 


Twelve per cent 


2 . 


Twelve per cent 


( 1) Where the average price per item /dish 

does not exceed Rs . 3 / - and / or the ma 
ximum price for any individual item / dish 

does not exceed Rs. 5 / -. 
(2 ) Where the average price per item /dish 

exceeds. Rs. 3 / - but does not exceed 
Rs. 10 /- and / or the maximum price for 
any individual item /dish exceeds Rs. 5 / 

but does not exceed Rs. 207-. 
( 3 ) Where the average price per item /dish 

exceeds Rs. 10 / -. 
Exemption : 

No tax shall be leviable under this 
Schedule when the annual turnover does 
not exceed Rupees one lakh and the ave 
rage price per item / dish does not exceed 
Rs. 3 / -, 


12 % 


Plant and machinery including 
Cranes . 
Television sets , video cassettes re 
corders and players, prerecorded 
video cassette and video game 
equipments . 
Furniture of all kinds. 
Crockery of all kinds. 
Any item to be specified by Go 
vernment by notification . 


. 


3 . 
-4 . 


Twelve per cent 
Twelve per cent 
Twelve per cent 


5 . 


M. M. NAIK 
Secretary to the Legislative 

Assembly of Goa . 


Notes: ( 1 ) The average price per item / dish shall be cal 
culated by dividing the sum total of prices prevailing on 


/ 


! 


GOVT. PRINTING PRESS GOA 

( Imprensa Nacional - Goa ) 
PRICE = Rs. 2 - 90 Ps . 


