REGISTERED No . D . 222 


The Eazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No . 4 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 1960/MAGHA 3, 1881 


NOTICE 
The underm :ationed Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 14th 
January , 1960 : 


Ioque 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No . 


5 


S . O . 103 , dated 

January , 1960. 


IIth Ministry of Labour and 

Employment. 


Constituting an Industrial Tri 

bunal at Dhanbad And Ap 
pointment of Shri G . Palit as its 
Presiding Officer , 


6 


S . O . 104, dated IIth Ministry of Information 
January , 1960 . 

and Broadcasting. 


Approval of Filmg specified therein , 


7 


S . O . 105 , dated 12th Ministry of Commerce 
January, 1960. 

and Industry . 


Granting recognition to the Indian 

Exchange Limited ,, Amritsar , 

for 3 years . 
Amendment in the Indian Copy 

right Order , 1958. 


8 


S . O . 106 , dated 13th Ministry of Scientific 
January , 1960 . 

Research and Cultural 
Affairs , 


9 


10 


S . O . 165, dated 14th Ministry of Commerce Granting recognition to the spices 
January , 1960 . and Industry . 

and Oilseeds Exchange Ltd ., 
Sangli for 3 years in respect of 
forward contracts in groundout 

Kernels. 
S . O . 166 , dated 8th Ministry of Steel, Mines Giving notice to acquire lands 
January , 1960 . and Fuel, 

specificd therein . 
S . O . 167, dated 12th Do, 

Specifying further one year within 
January , 1960 , 

which the Central Government 
may give notice of its intention 

to acquire lands specified thercin , 
S . O , 168 , dated 12th 

Do. 

Specifying further one year within 
January , 1960 . 

which the Central Government 
may give notice of its intention 

to acquire lands specified therein , 
S . O . 169 , dated 12th Do. 

Specifying further one year within 
January , 1960 . 

which the Central Government 
may give notice of its intention 
to acquire lands specified therein . 


- - - - 


( 305 ) 


306 


[PART 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29 , 1960 / MAGHA 9, 1881 

- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
No. and date Iscrie } by 

Subject 


Isque 
No . 


- 


- - 


L 


- - 


- - 


N 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


-- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


S . O . 170 , dated 12th 

Janualy , 1960 . 


Ministry of Steel 
Mines and Fuel. 


Specifying further one year within 
which the Central Government 
may give notice of sti intctition 
to acquire land specified thercin . 


S . O . 171 , dated 

Junuary , 1960 . 


14th 


Specifying further one year within 

which the Central Governmeot 
may give notice of its mention 
tu acquire lands Speciiet therein . 


Copies of the Gazette kstraordiniry mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes 


PART II — Section 3- - Sub - section ( 1 ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govorn 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 14th January , 1960 
S . O . 174 . - In pursuance of Section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (43 of 1951) , the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pronouned 
on the 30th October , 1959, by the Election Tribunal, Shahjahanpur. 


BEFORE THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL SHAHJAHANPUR 

PRESENT ; 
S Khadim Ali, H . J. S . Memher Election Tribunal, 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 476 OF 1957 
Sri Niranjan Singh Deo aged 60 years, 

s / 0 Thakur Ratan Singh , resident of 
village Nír , Dist. Hardoi - Petitioner. 

Vs. 
1 Sri Chlteda Lal 

r / o Whiteganj, Hardoi 
2 . Sri Sheo Din r / o village and P .O . Gopamau , Tahsil and District Hardol 
3 . Sri Kindar Lal, r /o Mohalla Idrisganj, Hardoi. 
4 Sri Srish Chandra Agarwal, r / o Whiteganj, Hardoi - Respondents 


JUDGMENT 
This election petition relates to the general seat of the double -member House of 
People Hardoi Constituency No . 363 which comprises of six Uttar Pradesh Legisla 
tive Assembly Constituencies Nog 333, 334 , 336 to 338 and 349 . It arises out of the 
last general election in which voting took place on 25th and 28th February , 1957 
and 3rd , 9th , 12th and 14th March 1957 in different Assembly Constituencies and 
the result was declared on 25th March 1957 after counting of votes on 20th and 
25th March 1957 It was filed on 9th May, 1957 before the Under Secretary of the 
Election Commission of India by Mohan Lal Varma who was duly authorized hy 
the Petitioner to present it. The Chief Election Commissioner appointed Sri Jagdista 


SEC , 8 (11 )] THE GAEI TE OF INDIA : JANUARI 29 , 1960 /MACHA 9, 1881 307 
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - 

- - -- 
Misra District and Sessions Jurige , Hardoi as Member Election) Tribunal on 6th 
June , 1957 but accepted the resignation of Sri Jagdish Misra and appointed me as 
MTmler Electi0 ? Tribunal on 22nd May 1: 58 . 


Nis 11an Singh Deo was put up by Jan Sangh party while Respt . No . 1 Chheda 
Lal was set up by Congress party for the general seat Respondent No 2 Sheo Din 
wus set up by Jan Sangh party while Respondent No. 3 Kindar Lal was set up by 
Congress party as schedule caste candidate . The Respondent No . 4 Srish ( hindra 
Agarwal was also a candidate for the general seat but he withdrew from the con 
test, IIç is nephew of Chhed Lial Respondent No . 1 . Chheda Lal secured 235231 , 
vote , while Niranjan Singh Den secured 231763; She Din secured 191730 votes , 
Kindar Lal secured 189232 votes and 43430 votes were reverted , 

The Petitioner has set out grounds in clauses ( A ) to ( B ) of para 6 or he Peti 
tion for the election of Chheda Lal being void and liable to be set aside. Apart 
from having the election of Respondent No I declarerl void the Petitioner has also 
claimed the relief of herng derlared as July electerl The Petition has annexei to 
it Schedules A to E of which Schedules A and B relate to ground ( A ) while Sche 
dules C to E relate to grounds ( B ) to ( D ) respectively of its para 6 

The Respondent No. 1 filed written statenient on 22nd July , 1957 and ( untested 
all the sounds set up against him . Further he pleaded that the Petition is liabl. 
to be dismissed under section 90 ( 3 ) of the R . P Act for non - rompliance of tho 
Provisions of Section 117 of the said Act in view of the deposit of security made 
by the Potitioner being not valid He also plearled that the petition is barred by 
time and that the petition is not legally maintainable as it was not presented by 
proper person to proper authority . 


Respondent No . 1 served recriminatory charges on the Petitioner on 17th July . 
1957 The recriminatory petition was accompanied by Schedules A to G . The 
Petitioner denied the said charges in his written statement Aled on 29th July 1967 

Respondent Nos 2 to 4 filed written statements on 22nd July 1957 out of them 
Respondent No. 2 has supported the petitioner While the others have supported 
the Respondent No . 1 , The Respondent No 4 ha . further pleaded that he is all 
unnecessary party and is entitled to special lot 


The pleading of the parties have given the to the following issues : -- 


1 Is the deposit of security made by the petitioner valid ? Is the election peti 
tion liable to be dismissed under section 10 ( 3 ) of the Act No 43 of 1951 for non 
( oinpliance with the provisions of sertion 117 of the said Act ? 

2 Is the election petition time-barred ? 
Ý (R ) Was the election petition presented hy the proper perscin ? 
(1 ) Was the election petition presented not to the proper authority " 


4 (al Was Babu Ram Gupta Panchayat Inspector Kachhona circle Tahsıl 
Sandila , District Hardoi, from before the notification of the election under section 
14 of the R . P . Act ? 

4 ( h ) Did Sri Babu Ram Gupta arrange meetings as alleged in Schedule A with 
the consent of Respondent No. 1 and were they also attended by him and did Sri 
Babu Rani Gupta ask Pradhans of the villages given in Schedule A to anyhov , 
Influence the voters to vote for Respondents 1 and 3 as alleged by the petitioner ? 

5 . ( A ) Did Sri Bahu Ram Gupta . with the consent of Traoondoni No 1 pot can 
vassing done with a view to influence voters through official agency between 29th 
January, 1957 and 19th March 1957, and did he Interfere with the electors in the 
free exercise of their franchise with the direct help of Prachans of various Gaon 
Sabhas mentioned in Schedule B of the petition ? 

5 ( h ) Was Sri Babu Ram Gupta all through canvassina and soliciting votes for 
Respondents Nos 1 and 3 as alleged and detailed in Schedule C ? 

6 . ( A ) Werc Sri Aizaz Rasool an ! Sri Ram Chandra nyents and workers of 
Respondents 1 and 3 as alleged in para 6 ( c ) of the petition ? 

6 ( b ) Did Sri Nawab Aizaz Rasool, Sri Srigh Chandra Agarwal and Sri Ram 
Ohandra hirc conveyance with the consent and in the knowledge of Respondents 1 
and 3 as alleged in para 6 ( c ) read with schedule D of the petition ? 


308 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAĢHA ), 1881 [PART JI 
-- . — : 

7 . ( ) Did Jagdish Prasad and Shanti Swaroop mentioned in schedule E belong 
to the class of persons in the service of Government given in clause F of sub 
section 7 of section 123 of R . P . Act ? 

7. ( b ) Did Respondent No. 1 obtain and procure the help of Jagdish Prasad , 
Dayı Shankar and Shanti Swarup for the furtherance of the prospects of his 
election as alleged in para 6 ( d ) read with schedule E of the petition ? 


8 . Would the petitioner have obtained the majority of valid votes but for the 
voter alleged to have been obtained by the Respondent No. 1 by corrupt practices 
mentioned in paras 0 ( a ) to 6 ( d ) of the petition ? 

9. ( A ) Is the respondent No. 4 an unnecessary party ? 
9. ( b ) Is he entitled to special costs from the petitioner as claimed by him ? 
10 . To what reljef if any, is the petitioner entitled ? 

11 . Has the petitioner , his workers , and supporters been guilty of gratiAcation 
as detailed in Schedule A attached to the recriminatory petition and its better 
particulars filed on 9th August 1958 ? 

12 . Had the petitioner and his workers and supporters been guilty of exercising 
undue influence as detailed in Schedule B attached to the recriminatory petition 
and its better particulars flled on 9th August 1958 ? 

13 . Did the petitioner engage and procure vehicles for carrying voters AS 
Alleged in para 1 ( e ) of the recriminatory petition and detailed in Sch . D and its 
better particulars Aled on 9th August 1958 ? 

14 . Did the officers specified in Schedule E attached to the recriminatory 
petition work for the petitioner at the instance of the petitioner as alleged in 
para 1 ( E ) of the recriminatory petition ? 

15 . Did the petitioner not maintain account properly as alleged in para 1 ( h ) 
of the recriminatory petition and schedule F relating to it ? If so , its effect ? 

18 . Did members of niyae Panchayat Indirectly work and canvass for tho 
petitioner as alleged in para l ( i) of the recriminatory petition and detailed in 
Schedule G relating to it ? If so its effect ? 

Issues 1 to 3 ( b ) were framed as preliminary issues on 9th August 1957 and 
were decided in favour of the petitioner on 3rd March 1958 . Subsequently issuu 
4 ( e ) to 5 ( b ) were framed on 18th March 1958 ; issues 6 ( a ) to 10 were framed 
on 10th April 1958 and the rest were framed on 4th September 1958. 

Findings 

Issue 4 ( a ) to 6 (b ) , 8 and 11 to 16 . 
There is no evidence in support of these issues . They have not even been 
pressed in the course of arguments . Each of these issues is therefore decided 
in the negative. 

Issue No. 7 ( a ) 


It is stated in Schedule E ( lv ) that Shanti Swarup was serving under the 
State of Uttar Pradesh as Panchayat Secretary of Pihani circle at the time of th . 
election . This fact was admitted in oral pleadings by learned counsel for Ras 
pondent No. 1 on 9th April 1958 , Learned counsel for petitioner has specifically 
conceded in the course of arguments that Shanti Swarup does not belong to the 
mlags of persons specified in clause ( 1) of Sub - section ( 7 ) of section 123 of R .P . Act. 

It is stated in Schedule E ( 1 ) that Jagdish Prasad is employed in the Revenue 
Collection Department of District Hardoi. This fact was admitted by the learned 
counsel for Respondent No . 1, in oral pleadings on 9th April 1958. Subsequent 
to that admission the learned counsel for petitioner stated that Jagdish Prasad 
was employed as a peon in the said department. This fact has been conceded 
by the learned counsel for respondent No . 1 in the course of arguments. There 
is also ample evidence in support of it . It consists of the testimony of Bakhtan 
Singh , Mahendrapal Singh , Prabhu , Shafiq Khan , Azmat Ullah , Mohammad Rafiq , 
Waris All. Ghulam Nabi, Khanna and Dwarka ( P .Ws. 21 , 22 , 34 to 36 , 38 , 40 
41, 43 and 44 ) . They are corroborated by Sana Ullah , Azhar Husain , Chhote 
Lal, Shyam Sundar , Tilak Ram , Ram Sagar and Srish Chandra Agrawal. ( R .WS. 24 , 
35 , 45 , 47 , 48, 67 and 72 ) . 


Sec , ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


309 


- - - - - - 


It has now to be determined it Jagdish Prasad belongs to the class of persons 
specified in section 123 ( 7 ) ( 1 ) of the R . P . Act which reads as tollows: 
" Revenue officers including village accountants, such as Patwaris, Lekhpals , 

Talatis , Karnams and the like but excluding other village oMcers," 
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the petitioner that Jagdish 
Prasad was revenue officer , though not village accountant in view of being 
employed as collection peon for realization of rent due to Government from 
agricultural land -holders . In my opinion that contention must prevail baving 
regard to the definition of revenue officer in section 4 ( 9 ) of the U . P . Land 
Revenue Act which reads as follows: 
" Revenue ofrer means any officer employed under this Act in maintain . 

ing revenue records or in the business of the land revenue." 
Jagdish Prasad would be a Revenue officer according to the above definition , 
because , there is evidence to the effect that he helped the Collection Amin in 
the realization of rent due to Government for rural agricultural land and rent 
(not revenue ) is realizable for such land after the abolition of Zamindart by 
U . P . Land Reforms and Zamindari Abolition Act. It has been argued by the 
learned counsel for respondent No. 1 that Jagdish Prasad cannot be a revenue 
officer for tho purposes of Sec . 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) of the R . P , Act as he is not an officer 
of the class mentioned therein viz . patwarl, lekhpal, talatt and karnam . I wou 
no force in that argument as the words such as patwaris , lekhpals , talatis , kar 
nams and the like in the said section are merely descriptive of the words 
‘ revenue officers including village accountants and do not exhaust the list of 
revenue officers including village accountants . It has also been specifically so 
held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in K . C . Deobhanj V . Raghunath 
Misra , ( 1959 Supreme Court 589 at 596 ) , 

For the above reasons I hold that Jagdish Prasad but not Shanti Swarup 
belongs to that class of persons in the service of Government who are specified 
in Section 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) of the R . P . Act and decide the issue accordingly . 


Issue No. 7 (b ) 


This issue is based on the allegations contained in para ( D ) read with 
Schedule E of the petition which are to the effect that the respondent No. 1 
obtained and procured and attempted to obtain the help of persons serving 
under the State of Uttar Pradesh for the furtherence of thọ prospects of his 
election as detailed below : 

( 1 ) Jagdish Prasad, employed in the staff of the Revenue Collection Depart 
ment of Hardoi district was appointed polling agent at Junior High School Pihani 
polling station for 9th March 1957 and worked as such . He also worked and 
canvassed and solicited votes for Respondents Nos . 1 and 3 in villago Bazidnagar, 
Karawan Sahitinagar , Arua and Mansoor Nagar between 1st and 9th March 
1957 . In the better particulars furnished by the petitionor on 19th September 
1958 It has been specified that Jagdish Prasad canvassed at Bazidnagar on 
1gt March 1957, at Karawan on 2nd March 1957, at Sahti Nagar on 4th March 
1957, at Mansoor Nagar on 6th -March 1957 and at Arua on 7th March 1957 . 
Ext. 35 dated 9th March 1957 has been relied for the appointment of Jagdish 
Prasad as polling agent. 

( 2 ) Daya Shankar. Leklipal In Tahsil Shahbad of Hardoi district, was appointed 
polling agent for Hansbarauli polling station for 3rd March 1957 and worked 
as such . Ile also worked and solicited votes for Respondents Nos . 1 and 3 in 
villages Burhagaon , Bazidnagar , Gopamau and Jarauli, between 25th February 
1957 and 9th March 1957 with their knowledge and consent. It was subsequently 
specifed in better partirylars furnished by the petitioner on 19th September 1958 
that Daya Shankar canvassed at Burhagaon on 25th February 1957, at Jarauli 
on 18th February 1957, at Gopamau on 1st March 1957 and at Bazidnagar on 
7th March 1957. It was also stated therein that the respondents Nos. 1 and 8 
had given their consent to him at Plhani on 20th February 1957 to work and 
canvass for them . They knew very wel] about the work done by him as they 
gathered information when they toured the said villages. Ext 5 dated 1st March 
1957 has been relied for the appointment of Daya Shankar as polling agent, 

( 3 ) Shanti Swarup , employed as Panchayat Secretary Plhani circle , wag 
appointed polling agent and worked as such on 9th March 1957 at Pihani Junior 
High School polline station . He also canvassed and solicited votes for respon 
donts Nos, 1 and 3 with their consent from 25th February 1957 to oth March , 


310 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 / MACHA 3 , 1881 [PART II 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - 
1957. It was subsequently specified in better particulars furnished by the peti 
tioner on 19th Septeinber 1958 that Shanti Swarup worked at Pandarwa on 
27th February 1957 and at Duhalia on 5th March 1957. It was also stated therein 
that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 had given their consent to him on 20th 
February 1957 at Pihan to work and Canvass for them . Ext. 36 dated 9th March 
1957 lias been relied for the appointment of Shanti Swarup as polling agent. 

It may be noted at the outset that the allegations about Shanti Swarup are 
or little avail and havc not been relied although evidence has bcen led 111 
support of them as it has been conceded that he does nut belong to the class of 
officers mentioned in Sec . 123 ( 7 ) of the R . P . Act. The evidence on the point 
may also be noted . Sri Kishan and Jiwan Lal ( P .Ws. 56 and 57 ) have stated 
about Resp . No . 1 having asked Shanti Swarup to canvass votes for Congress 
in his circle , while Nazim Husain , Aga Ali, Nawab Ali and Dhani Ram ( P .Ws. 
25 to 28 ) have stated about Shanti Swarup having worked in Dahella ; Raghunath 
Singh , Aqil Khan , Lezam Singh Jhabhu Singh and Vishunath Singh ( P .Ws. 29 
tu 33) have stated about Shanti Swarup having worked in Pandarwa ; M . Y . Khan , 
R . A . Gregorry , Pratap Narain , Wajahat Ali and Magan Nath ( P .Ws. 45 46 , 54 , 
38 and 59 ) have been examined to prove the signature of the respondent No. 1 
on the polling Agency from ( Ex 36 ) by which Shanti Swarup is said to have 
been appointed polling agent; and, Shafiq Khan , Azmat Ullah , Maiku Lal Mohain 
mad Rafiq , Waris Ali , Ghulam Nabi and Mohammad Sami ( P .Ws 35 to 38 and 
40 lo 42 ) have stated about Shanti Swarup having actou as polling agent al 
the Junior High Srhool Piyani polling centre . On the other hand the Respondent 
No. 1 (RW . 75 ) has stated that he had not asked Shanti Swarup to canvass for 
hirm or Congress ; Ram Charan and Manna Lal ( R .WS, 63 and 04 ) have given 
( vidence in rebuttal of Shanti Swarup having worked in Dahella ; Abid Ali (RW . 
65 ) has given evidence in rebuttal of Shanti Swarup having worked in Pandarwa. 
Shyaina Charan Varma, Hari Singh , J. P Gupta , P , R . Mąhant, M . K . Mehta . 
Hori Lal 1 mon and Respt. Nos, 4 and 1 ( R .Ws, 39, 49 to 52, 57, 72 and 75 ) have 
been evanined in rebuttal of the signature on the polling agency form ( Ex 36 ) 
being ut 11 Respondent No. 1 ; the Respts. 4 and i have also stated that Shanti 
Swali la id not been appointed polling agent by the Respt . No, l ; and , Abdul 
Hai www the Respt . Nos . 4 and 1 ( R .Ws. 25 , 72 and 75 ) have stated in rebuttal of 
Shanti S14drup having érted as polling agent. 

The evidence roncerning Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar may now be 
onsirlerer Before doing so the following facts may be noted ; 

It has not been specified anywhere in the pleadings hy the Petitioner how , 
where and when the Resp . No . I had authorized Jagdish Prusad to work and 
canvass for him and came to know about Jagdish Prasad having worked for 
him . It has also not been specified in the pleading where the Nespondent No. 1 
hadi appointed Jagitish and Daya Shankar his polling agents for the Junior 
High School Pihani and Hansbarauli polling centres respectively It has been 
stated in better particulars filed by the Petitioner on i9th May 1958 that Daya 
Shankar had canvassed for the Respondents 1 and 3 at Jareli on 18th February 
1957 although he had stated in Para ( iji) of Schedule E annexed to the Petition 
that Daya Shankar had worked and solicited votes for the Respondents 1 and 3 
in Ja - eli und other villages from 5th February 1957 to 9th March 1957. There 
is no evidence about Jagdish Prasad canvassing and soliciting votes in villages 
Bazid Nagar , Sahti Nagar, Arua and about Daya Shankar working and solicitinx 
votes in Gopamau . Daya Shankar has been admitted to be lekhpal in oral 
pleadings on 9th April 1958 by the learned counsel for the Respondent No. 1 
and as such must be an officer of the class specified in Section 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) of the 
RP Act. 

The evidence about Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar being authorized by 
the respondent No . 1 to work and canvass for him may Arst be considered . It 
consists of the testimony of Sri Kishan and Jiwan Lal ( P Ws, 56 and 57) . Their 
evidence is to the effect that 15 - 20 days before polling the Resot . No. I came 
arrompanied by Kindar Lal Respt. No . 3 , Daya Shankar and motor driver and 
after appreciating the good work done by Daya Shankar asked Jagdish Prasad 
and Shanti to work and canvass for him in their respective centres . They have 
made conflicting statements about the conveyance in which the Respt . No. 1 
and his companions had come and about the exact place where the Respt No. 1 
talked with Jagdish Prasad and Shanti Swarup But the condict is not material. 


Sri Kishan has stated that the Respt No . 1 and his companions had come 
in car and had talk at the public road near Shanti Swarup s bouse whereus 
Tiwanlal has stated that the Respt . No . 1 and his companions had come in a jeep 
and had talk in Shanti Swarup s court- yard at a distance of 20 paces from 


- 


- 


- 


$ #C , 8 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 311 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 

- - - 
Shanti Swarup s door and of 30 paces from the public road . Whether the con 
voyance was car or jeep is of little consequence as there is little difference 
between the two and the villagers may not even appreciate that difference . The 
exact place of talk is also of little conscquence as it was near Shanti Swarup s 
house according to both of them . 

In spite of the contradictions being immaterial the evidence of these witnesses 
is unworthy of credence as they are men of meagre means and could be influenced 
by Hamid Ali who could have a personal grievance against the Respt . No. 1 and 
could also be induced against him by Mohan Lal Varma who is bitterly against 
him and has intimate friendship with the petitioner . 


Sri Kishan admittedly earns Rt. 2 / - to Rs. 3 / - only per day while Jiwan Law 
carns his livelihood by tuition and gets Rs. 2 / - per month and shave on alter 
nate days for teaching son of a barber . Admittedly both of them reside in 
Mohalla Misrana of Pihani of which the abadi belongs to Hamid Ali accordine 
to them . Jiwan Lal has admitted that Hamid All is a big zamindar and has 
considerable influence . He is corroborated on the point by Azmat Ullah ( P . W . 
36 ) The Respt. No . 1 has also admitted that Hamid Ali is an influential man . 


fiamid Ali could have a personal grievance against the Respt . No. 1 as he 
was removed from Presidentship of the Pihani Municipal Board on no - confidenco 
motion being passed against him and his rival Zafar Husain became President 
on account of the Respondent No. 1 not having supported him . His resentment 
is evident from the fact that he even resigned from Congress which he and 
Zafar Husain had both joined after 1947. Aga Ali ( P . W . 26 ) has stated that 
Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain belong to rival parties while Sri Kishan ( P . W . 56 ) 
has stated that Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain are the heads of the rival parties 
Sri Kishan has further stated that Hamid Ali was formerly President of the 
Pihanı Municipal Board , but was removed on a motion of no - conſledence being 
passed and Zafar Husain was elected President in his place . He is corroborated 
by Shafiq Khan ( P . W 35 ) who has stated that Hamid AlI was elected President 
of the Municipal Board in 1953 but ceased to function as such in 1955 when 
Zafar Husain was elected President. He is also corroborated by Azhar Husain 
allas Nawabu ( R . W . 35 ) who has stated - that IIamid Ali resigned from the Congress 
when 10 - confidence motion was passed against him on account of the Respon 
dent No. 1 having not lent his support to him and that Zafar Husain worked 
as President for 13 - 14 years , although both Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain had 
joined Congress atter 1947, 


The respondent No. 1 has admitted that llamid Al was elected President of 
Pihani Municipal Board in 1953 on Congress ticket and continued as such till 
he resigned after no - confidence motion being passed against him at the instance 
of Zalar Husain who was then senior Vice - President and subsequently acted 
üs President. He has denied to have advised Zafar Husain to move the po 
confidence motion but there is possibility of such advice having becn given by 
lzim , although he and his admitted nephew and pairokar Respt No . 4 have 
stated that he had cordial relations with both Hamid Ali and Zafar Husain , as 
he has admitted that Zafar Husain belonged to his party and Respt No. 4 has 
stated that his relations with Hamid Ali were not so cordial as with Zafar 
Husain . 


Hamid Ali could be influenced by Mohan Lal Varma as Mohan Lal Varma 
is the founder and leader of the P . S . P . which he joined in 1955 when he was 
removed from the Presidentship of Pihani Municipal Board and was elected 
President of that very Board in 1957 on P . S .P . ticket . Azmat Ullah ( P . W . 36 ) 
has stated that on being removed from Presidentship of the Municipal Board , 
Hamid Ali joined the P . S . P . in 1955 while Shafiq Khan ( P . W . 35 ) has stated 
that liamid Ali was elerted Member of the Plhanı Municipal Board on P . S . P . 
ticket in the last Municipal elections of 1957 and was subsequently elected 
President of the sąid Board . Further Azmat Ullah and Azhar Husain alias 
Nawabu ( R . W . 35 ) have stated that Mohan Lal Varma had established P . S . P . 
in 1953 while Shafiq Khan and Magannath ( P .Ws. 35 and 59 ) have stated that 
Mohanlal Varma is still leader of P . S . P . 


Mohan Lal could not but have bitter feelings against the Respondent No . 1 
as they headed rival parties in the Congress and he was not only expelled from 
that organization in 1953 at the instance of respondent No. 1 after having defeated 
the Respondent No . 1 in the election for General Secretary - ship of the Hardoi 
Dist . Congress Committee in 1946 and remained Sorretary or President of the 
said Committee from 1946 to 1953 but the Respondent No. i had secured Presi 
Ventship of that Committee on his expulsion and retained it till 1957 , 


312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part I 

- -- - - - - - - 
The respondent No . 4 ( R . W . 72 ) has stated that Mohan Lal Varma and the 
Respondent No. I headed rival parties in Congress since 1946 when Mohan Lal 
Varma defeated the Respondent No. 1 in the election for General Secretary - ship 
of the District Congress Committee of Hardoi; that the said rival parties 
continued till 1953 when Mohan Lal Varma was expelled from Congress ; and , 
that the Respt. No . 1 did not hold any office in the District Congress Committee 
from 1946 to 1953 but was elected President of the said committee after the 
expulsion of Mohan Lal Varma. He is corroborated by Shyama Charan Varme 
( R . W . 39 ) , permanent Secretary of the Dist . Congress Committee , Hardoi, who 
has further stated that Mohan Lal Varma remained either Secretary or President 
of the Dist . Congress Committee from 1946 to 1953, although the Respt. No. 1 
was President of the Dist . Congress Committee when he was defeated in 1946 
for Joint Secretary - ship and that on being elected President of the Dist . Congress 
committee after the expulsion of Mohan Lal Varma from the Congress the Respt. 
No . 1 continued to be President till 1957 when he was elected member of the 
Parliament and Vice President of the District Congress committee, Azhar Husain 
alias Nawabu and Mahesh Pd ( R .Ws. 35 and 46 ) have stated that Mohan Lal 
Varma was expelled from the Congress in 1953. Mahesh Prasad has further 
stated that the expulsion had taken place at the Instance of the Respt. No . 1. 

There is evidence for the Petitioner also to the same effect. Wajahat Ali 
( P . W . 58 ) has stated that Mohan Lal Varma worked as Secretary or President 
of the Dist . Congress Committee, Hardoi, from 1948 to 1953 when expelled from 
Congress and that after expulsion of Mohan Lal Varma from the Congress the 
Respondent No. 1 was elected President of the District Congress Committee in 
1953 and continued as such till 1947 when elected member of the Parliament. 
Bhagwati Prasad , Azmat Ullah and Karan Singh ( P . W . 13 , 38 and 39 ) have 
stated that Mohan Lal Varma had been expelled from Congress in 1953 for six 
years . 


The respondent No . 4, has stated that from 1946 to 1953 the personal relations 
of Mohan Lal Varma to the respondent No. 1 were such that each one of them 
wanted to let down the other . Bansi Dhar Misra ( R . W . 54 ) , a member of the 
All India Congress Committee, has stated that in 1953 he found the relations of 
Mohan Lal Varma and the Respt. No . 1 so strained that they were bent to lower 
down each other s prestige. Their strained relations appear to have continued 
even after expulsion of Mohan Lal from tho - Congress as Bhagwati Prasad 
( P . W . 13 ) and Ram Singh ( R . W , 36 ) have stated that their rival parties still 
exist. Further Col. B . H . Zaidi ( R . W . 73 ) , Vice Chancellor , Aligarh Muslim 
University , has stated that he found relations of Mohan Lal Varma and the 
Respondent No. 1 extremely unpleasant from 1952 to 1957 when he was member 
of Parliament from Hardoi. 

The extreme bitterness of their relations appears from the fact that both of 
them had even resorted to unsuccessful criminal litigation against each other . 
Shyama Charan Varma ( R . W . 39 ) , Permanent Secretary of the Dist. Congress 
Committee , Hardoi, has stated that Mohan Lal Varma was President of the Dist. 
Co - operative Development Federation and was prosecuted on the complaint of 
Respt, No 1 for embezzling Rs. 87000 - 88000 / - in 1950 -51 and that before being 
expelled from Congress in 1953 Mohan Lal Varma had prosecuted the Respt. 
No . 1 under Sec . 500 IP . C ., Mahesh Prasad ( RW 46 ) has stated that the Respt. 
No. 1 had got the embezzlement case Aled by one Manna Lal and the Dist . 
Magistrate in or about 1950 and got coal licence cancelled of Mohan Lal who 
had a brick - kiln and that Mohan Lal had prosecuted the Respondent No . 1 
under section 500 I. P . C . Jagdamba Prasad ( R . W . 1 ) has stated that Mohan Lal 
Varma had prosecuted the Respondent No . 1 u / s 500 and that Respondent 
No, 1 had given evidence against Mohan Lal Varma in the embezzlement case 
in 1951. The Respondent No . 1 denies to have got Mohan Lal Varma prosecuted 
by Manna Lal for embezzlement but admits to have appeared as prosecution 
Witness in the embezzlement case , It has been conceded before me in the course 
of arguments that both the cases had ended in acquittal. The embezzlement 
case appears to have been protracted as it was decided in 1957 according to 
Bhagwati Prasad ( P . W . 13 ) . 

It appears that Mohan Lal Varma wields considerable influence . Basi Dhar Misra 
( R . W . 54) has stated that no action was taken against him for not complying 
with the directive of the Provincial Congress Committee for having a motion of 
no - confidence tabled against the Petitioner in 1952 , although the Petitioner was 
expelled for 6 years from the Congress for having contested as an independent 
candidate for Membership of Parliament against the Congress candidate Col. 
B . H , Zaidi. His expulsion from Congress in 1953 was followed by resignation 
of 700 - 800 persons from Congress according to Shyama Charan Varma (RW . 39 ) 


- 


- - 


$ æc , & ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 313 
- -- - 

= - - 
and of 500 - 600 persons according to Azmat Ullah ( P . W . 36 ) . There can be no 
doubt about a large number of persons having resigned from the Congress on 
the expulsion of Mohan Lal Varma as it so appears from Exhibits A30 to A33 
and A51 to A53 of which Ex . A30 , A32 and A51 to A53 are resignation letters 
of some individuals while Exts . A31 and A33 are such letters of several indl 
viduals in a body . After his expulsion from the Congress Mohan Lal Varma 
founded in Hardoi P . S . P . according to Azmatullah and Azhar Husain ( P . W . 36 
and R . W . 35 ) of whom Azhar Ilusain has also stated that some of those persons 
who had resigned from the Congress joined the P . S .P . He and somo of those 
persons who had resigned on his oxpulsion were allowed to join the Congress 
in 1955 , although he had been expelled in 1953 for 6 years, but he had to be 
expelled and those persons who had been permitted to rejoin Congress with him 
resigned again in 1956 according to Shyama Charan Varma ( R . W . 39 ) . The 
respondent No. 1 also appears to be equally , if not more influential as he had 
been Secretary or President of the District Congress Committee before Mohan 
Lal Varma being elected General Secretary in 1946 and President after expulsion 
of Mohan Lal Varma from the Congress in 1953 at his instance. 

Mohan Lal Varma could be under obligation to the Pctitioner as the Petitioner 
had given evidence for him in the defamation case against the Respondent No . 1 
who is undisputedly a very influential person . It is presumably for this reason 
that in 1952 he even defied the directive of the Provincial Congress Committee 
for having a motion of No- confidence tabled against the Petitioner who was 
then President Dıştrict Board . Their intimacy appears to have been much older 
as Mahesh Prasad ( R . W . 46 ) has stated that the Petitioner was elected President 
of District Board by the partymen of Mohan Lal Varma in 1948 . It appears to 
be persisting as it is not disputed that inspite of being leader of P . S . P . Mohan 
Lal Varma helped the petitioner in the General Election and presented this 
Petition before the Election Commission on behalf of the petitioner. Hamid Ali 
had also helped the petitioner according to Aqa Ali (P . W , 36 ). Ashraf Husain 
( R . W . 19) , Imam Ali ( R . W . 20 ), Abdul Razzaq (R . W . 21) and the Respondent 
No. 1 ( R . W . 75 ) . 

For the above reasons the evidenco of Sri Kishan and Jiwan Lal ( P .Ws. 56 
and 57 ) is unacceptable . The Petitioner has thus falled to prove that the res 
pondent No , I had obtained and procured or attempted to obtain the help of 
persons serving under the State of Uttar Pradesh for the furtherence of the 
prospects of his election . 

The Petitioner is , to be deemed to have pleaded impiled consent of the Res 
pondent No. 1 in Daya Shankar working for him by pleading that the Respondent 
No. 1 learnt on the occasion of his tours in villages Burhagaon , Jareli, Gopamau 
and Bazidnagar that Daya Shankar had worked for him . There is , however , no 
evidence in support of what has been pleaded . 

Tika Ram , Babu Ram Bachchu Lal and Khuman Singh ( P .Ws. 5 to 8 ) have 
stated that the Respondent No . 1 had come to Burhagaon before and not after 
Daya Shankar canvassed there. Consequently the Respondent No. 1 could not 
have come to know about Daya Shankar working there for him even if the 
evidence about Daya Shankar working there is accepted inspite of Sri Dhar, 
Gokaran Nath Bajpai, Makund Ram and the Respondent No . 1 ( R .Ws, 37, 38 , 
41 and 75 ) having stated that the Respt. No . 1 had not visited that village. 
Chhotey Lal ( P . W . 11 ) has stated that the Respt. No. I had visited Jareli after 
Daya Shankar had worked there but I am not prepared to believe him as họ 
is contradicted by Shankar Lal ( P . W . 9 ) , Govind Rann , ( P . W . 10 ) and the Res 
pondent No. 1 ( R . W . 75 ) . It has been stated hy . Shankar Lal and the Respt. 
No . 1 that thc Respondent No. 1 did not visit Jareli while Govind Ram has 
stated that Respondent No, 1 had visited Jareli hefore Daya Shankar. There is 
no evidence about Respondent No. 1 having visitcu Bozidnagar after Daya 
Shankar having worked there . On the other hand Itaat Flusain ( P . W . 15 ) has 
stated that the Respt, No. 1 had visited Bazidnagar betore Daya Shankar and 
the Respondent No. 1 has stated that he did not visit Bazidnagar at all. There 
is no evidence about the Respt. No, 1 having visited Gopamau . There is even 
no evidence about Daya Shankar having worked there as has already been asked , 

Before passing on to the next point I would like to note that respondent No. 1 
is not likely to have employed Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad to work for him 
As he had proviously made complaints against them and on his complaints they 
had come to grief . 

He has stated as R . W . 75 that he had made complaint against Daya Shankar 
to Zafar Husain 6 - 7 years ago when Daya Shankar was employed as Octroi clerk 
and Zafer Husain war acting President of the Plhani Municipal Board . Ex A84 


- 


- 


314 

THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28 , 1960 /MAGHA ), 1881 [ PART II 
- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 

- - - - - -- - - -- 
in hus letter containing the said complaint. Its date cannot be disciphered on 
account of having been washed out by water falling on it but 7th March 1954 
appears from the certified copy kept in its place and that date must be correct 
as the complaint is referred to in Ex . A45 which is a copy of the report dated 
13th March 1954 of Zafar Husain Senior Vice President to the President. 

It has been argued that the complaint and the report may have been subseyuently 
inscrteri as Zafar Husain assumed Presidentship of the Board in 1955 when Hamid 
Ali resigned or was removed . In support of that argument reliance is placed on 
the fact that the respondent No. l s complaint is entered in the index of the 
Board s file at Serial No . 41 after 50 cutting off the previous entry that it is 
undecipherable . I see no force in the argument as the original report of Zafar 
Husain does not appear to have been subsequently inserted. He could not have 
made any insertion recently as Hamid Ali was elected At first member and then 
President of the Board in 1957. 

Daya Shankar is likely to have come to know if Respt. No. 1 s complaint and 
Zafar Husain s report as he submitted apology on 17th March 1954 (vide Ex , A40 ), 
After apology being tendered S . Zatar Husain submitted another report on 18th 
March 1954 to the President for lenient view being taken (vide Ex , A47 ) . Hamid 
Ali President approved of the report and fined Daya Shankar Rs. 10 / - on 25th 
March 1954 (vide Ex , A48 ) . Khuman Singh ( P . W . 8 ) has admitted that Dayu 
Shankar was formerly employed in the Municipal Board Pihani and is lekhpal 
for the last three years. 

The Respt . No . 1 has stated that he had made complaint against Jagdish Prasad 
Collection peon 6 - 7 ycars ago but does not appear to remember the period of the 
complaint correctly as the complaint (Ex. A85 ) proved by him is dated 18th August 
1956. It was made to the Deputy Commissioner Hardoi who sent it to Collection 
Officer for enquiry and report by his order dated 18th August 1956 (vide Ex . A18 ) 
The District Collection Officer reported on 12th September 1956 that Jagdish 
Prasad be warned not to meddle in party -politics 1191 he is in Government service 
and the Tahsildar be asked never to post him in any circle near his home and 
also intimate that he was no longer posted in Pihani proper circle (vide Ex , A82 ) . 
That report appears to have been accepted by the Deputy Commissioner as the 
District Collection Ollicer ordered the Tahsildar Shahabad on 19th November 1956 
that Jagdish Prasad be warned not to meddle in party -politics till he is Govern 
ment servant and should not be posted near about Pihani which is his homo 
(vidu 419) , 


It has becn argued on behalf of the petitioner that Daya Shankar may have 
been employed by the respondent No . 1 to work for him as he is nephew of 
Gokaran Nath Bajpai (RW . 38 ) who is admittedly a ( agress worker for 20 - 25 
years, belongs to the party of the respondent No. 1 and had supported the Congress 
candidates and worked as polling agent for some Congress candidate at Burhagaon 
polling centre in the General elections of 1957. I see no force in that argument 
as Daya Shankar is not likely to have accepted the influence of Gokaran Nath 
Bajpai on account of having suffered at the instance of the Respondent No 1 
and ot Gokaran Nath Bajpai being not his real uncle . Gokaran Nath Bajpai has 
admitted that Daya Shankar is his nephew but the relationship does not appear 
to be real as Gokaran Nath Bajpai is son of Jwala Prosad and Bachulal ( P . W . 7 ) 
has stated that Daya Shankar is son of Pyarelal whose brothers were Jugal 
Kishore , Mewa Ram and Lachhman Prasad The relations of Jwala Prasad and 
Gokaran Nath Bajval may not have been cordial as Khuman Şingh ( P . W . 8 ) 
has stated that Gokaran Nath Bajpai s father Jwala Prasad formerly resided in 
the compound in which Daya Shankar has his house but constructed another 
house 20 - 25 years ago beyond a land to the east of the compound and Gokaran 
Nath Bajpai now resides in the newly constructed house . 


The evidence about Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar having actually canvassed 
for respondent No . I may now be considered . 

Tika Ram , Babu Ram , Bachchu Lal and Khuman Singh of Burhagaon ( P .Ws. 5 
to 8 ) have stated that Daya Shankar had held a meeting in their village at 
panchayat ghar and canvassed for the Congress candidates after the residents of 
the village had told the Respondent No. 1 that they had decided to vote for 
Jan Sangh . They have not given the date of the meeting hut it could be 25th 
February 1957 as Tika Ram has stated that it was held 4 - 5 days and the others 
have stated that it was held 5 -8 days before voting which took place on 3rd March 
1957 according to Gokaran Nath Bajpai (RW . 98 ) . In spite of it I am not prepared 
to believe them as the Respondent No . 1 is likely to have sent some influential 


Src. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTF OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 315 

- - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - -- - - - . . 
person , if it be true as stated by them , that he had bech told previously by the 
residents of Burhagaon that they had decided to vote for Jan Sangh Daya 
Shankai could not be such perkon as he was employed elsewhere and his elders 
resided in the village . His uncle Gokaran Nath Bajpai ( R . W . 38 ) Could be such 
person as he is elder to him and resides n the village. The Respondent No. 1 
could also have confidence in him as he is an old Congressman and belongs to 
his party Khuman Singh has even admitted that Gokaran Nath Bajpat had 
worked for the Respondent No . l. 

In rebuttal there is evidence of Sridhar , Gokaran Nath Bajpai, Makund Ram 
and Ram Kumar ( R .WS 37, 38 , 41 and 42 ) . They have all stated that no meeting 
was held in Burhagaon by Daya Shankar. Out of them Sridhar has been named by 
the petitioner s witness as the person through whom Daya Shankar had collected 
people in the meeting but he , Mukund Ram and Ram Kumar have refuted them 
1 consider the evidence of these witnesses satisfactory as Sridher and Ram Kumar 
are quite independent. Gokaran Nath Bajpai and Makund Ram could be interested 
in the Respondent No 1 as both of them are admittedly old Congressmen , Gokaran 
Nath Bajpai also admittedly helongs to Respondent No. I s party and had supposed 
Congress candidates in the General Elections of 1957 and Makund Ram had 
admittedly acted as polling agent for some Congress candidate . But this is of 
little consequence when thcir evidence is corroborated by two independent 
witnesses 


Iut arned counsel for the Respondent No. I has also relied on Daya Shankar s 
dhary ( Ex . A40 ) proved by Chlivtey Lal, Gokaran Nath Bajpai and Sada Ram 
( P .Ws. 18 , 38 and 55 ) to contradict the petitioner s witnesses as it shows that 
Daya Shankar had done partial on 25th February 1957 in village Bazidnagar 
which is at a distance of 4 - 5 miles from Burhagaon according to Tika Ram ( P . W . 5 ) . 
Sada Rum was then Tahsildar Shahabad and had signed the relevant entry on 
15th July 1957 after the diary beuk taken into custody liy the Supervisor Qanungo 
in accordance with his order dated 13th July 1957 ( EX. A77 ) given ty hin in 
pursuance of the order of con date of the District Magistrate ( Ex , A78 ) on the 
application of Respondent No. 1 of that very date ( Ex . A75 ) . The Respondent 
No. i had also written to himi direct on 9th July 1957 for the chary being taken 
into custody and in it too he had ordered the Supervisor Qanungo on 9th July 
1957 to obtain the diary ( vide Exts . 44 and A79 ) I do not consider the ent: y 
in question to be sufhcient to controvert the evidence of the petitioner s witnesses 
as Dayn Sharkar could have gone to Burhagaon in spare time on account of the 
distance being only 4 - 0 miles . He could not have inade a note of his visit to 
Burhagaon in his diary as his visit to Burhugaun would have been private and 
not official, 

There is evidence of Shankar Lal, Govind Ram , Chhote Lal and Suryabux 
Singh ( P . W . 9 to 11 and 14 ) about Daya Shankar having collected a meeting of 
the residents of Jareli at Shankar Lal s house before polling and canvassed for 
the Congress candidates in that meeting but they difier about how many days 
before polling the meeting was held . Shankar Lal and Govind Ram have stated 
that the meeting was held 12 - 13 days before polling while Chhote Lal has stated 
that it was held 13 - 14 days before polling and Suryabux Singh has stated that 
it was held only 2 days before polling Suryubux Singh las catagorically 
contradicted the other witnesses by stating that Daya Shankar had not come to 
aroli prior to two days before polling, 


The evidence of all these witnesses is of little uvail as it has already been 
potrai that there is conflict in the pleadingy about the date on which Daya Shankar 
canvassed in Jarcli. It was stated in Schedule E annt xed to the petition that 
Driya Shankar had canvassed in Janeli and other places from 25th February 
to 9th March 1957 whereas it was stated in better particulars Aled subsequently 
that Daya Shankar worked in Jareli on 18th February 1957 . The evidence of 
the first three witnesses could relate to 18th February 1957 as polling in Jareli 
took rilare on 3rd March 1957 According to Shankar Lal and the polling agency 
forms ( Exts . 24 and A24 to A27) but it is to be eliminated as the canvassing in 
Jareli was done from 25th January 1957 to 9th March 1957 according to Schedule 
E annexed to the petition , The testimony of the remaining witness Surya Bux 
Singh is eliminated although it could relate to the period specified in Schedule E 
annexed to the petition , as it is uncorroborated and is in conflict with the 
specific date of canvassing given in better particulars . 

These witnesses for the petitioner appear to be interested in the petitioner 
as he was a Jan Sangh candidate and Shankar Lal and Govind Ram have stated 
that the residents of village Jarelı had decided to vote for Jan Sangh before the 


316 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 3, 1881 [ PART 1 

- - - - - - 
meeting held by Daya Shankar. Shankar Lal has no doubt further stated that 
after Daya Shankar s visit the residents of Jareli decided to vote for Congrex 
but I am not prepared to believe him as he has refused to disclose to whom he 
had voted although he was admittedly polling agent for Mahesh Singh who wro 
# Congress candidate for Assembly and Govind Ram has stated that the villagers 
promised their vote to any one who visited their village irrespective of the 
party to which the visitor belonged . Shankar Lal has denied the suggestion that 
he worked for the Petitioner and that the residents of Jareli had decided to vote 
in favour of Congress for Assembly and in favour of Jan Sangh for Parliament but 
the suggestions are not improbable as he but Surya Bux Singh have given 
evidence for the petitioner although they , were admittedly polling agents for 
Mahesh Singh and their polling agency forms are Exts . 24 and A26 . 

There is the cvidence ot, Ram Singh , Jadunath Singh and Ram Sagar ( R .Ws. 
36 , 43 and 67) in rebuttal. They have stated that no mceting was held in 
Jareli by Daya Shankar. Ram Singh could have a motive to be interested in 
Respondent No. 1 as he has stated that his rival parties head Puttu Singh belongs 
to the party of Mohan Lal Varma and had worked for the petitioner but Jadunath 
Singh and Ram Sagar are quite independent. The evidence of Ram Singh 
cannot be discarded merely for his interestedness when it is corroborated by 
two independent witnesses . The evidence in rebuttal is thus satisfactory , 

There is evidence of Ganna , Itaat Husain , Rahim Bux , Dwarka and Nilkanth 
( P .Ws. 12 and 15 to 18 ) in support of Daya Shankar having convassed for the 
respondent No. 1 in a meeting at Bazidnagar. It is worthless as it could not be 
connectcd with 7th March 1957 when Daya Shankar is alleged to havo canvassed 
in Bazidnagar according to petitioner s better particulars and is ccnflicting about 
time and duration of the meeting and about what took place at the meetin 
besides the canvassing by Daya Shankar . 

Ganna has stated that the meeting , was held three days beforo polling and 
as such , could relate to 6th March 1957 in view of polling having taken place in 
Bazidnagar on 9th March 1957 according to Ishwari, Paragi Lal and Chhotey Lal 
( R .Ws. 2 , 6 and 18 ) . He has further stated that no other talk had taken place 
in the meeting besides Daya Shankar canvassing for Congress but is contradicted 
by Itaat Husain and Nilkanth who have given conflicting versions. Rahim But 
has stated that he alone had declared that he shall vote for Congress candidateg 
while Nilkanth has stated that all the persons present in the meeting had declared 
to vote for Congress. 

Ganna has not stated anything about time and duration of the meeting but 
according to him the meeting is not likely to have lasted for more than a few 
minutes as he has stated that no other talk took place in the meeting besides 
Daya Shankar asking the persons present there to vote for Congress. Itaat 
Husain has definitely stated that Daya Shankar had addressed tho meeting for 
5 - 10 minutes and then the mecting dispersed but has not stated at what time the 
meeting had taken place. Rahim Bux has stated that the meeting had lasted 
from 12 noon - 1 to 4 p . m , while Dwaraka has stated that the meeting had lasted 
from 11 a .m . to about 1 p . m . Nlikanth has stated that the meeting had started 
at about 2 p . m . and he left it after about half an hour when it was still going 
on . 

The evidence of Itaat Husain and Rahim Bux could relate to 7th March 1957 
If their polling centre had been Bazidnagar as Itaat Husain has stated that the 
meeting had taken place 2 - 3 days before polling and Rahimbux has stated that 
It had taken place 1 - 2 days before polling . But their evidence is unacceptable as 
they are residents of Shahpur Sayyadan and there is no evidence to show that 
the polling for Shahpur Sayyadan took place at Bazidnagar polling centre . 
Itaat Husain and Rahim Bux have no doubt stated that their village Shahpur 
Sayyadan was within the circle of Daya Shankar lekhpal of Bazidnagar and 
Itaat Husain has further stated that Shahpur Sayyadan is 34 furlongs from 
Bazidnagar but merely from these facts it could not be interred that the polling - 
for Shahpur Sayyadan took place in Bazidngar. Such Inference is unjustified . 


Dwarka and Nlikanth who are residents of Mahelia Khera have stated that 
the voting of their village took place in Dahelia and according to Itaat Husala 
Mahella Khera is also at e distance of 3 - 4 furlongo from Bazidnagar . 

The presence of Itaat Husain in the meeting is eliminated by Ganna. Dwarka 
has not named even Ganna Among the residents of Bazidnagar who attended 
the meeting but that is of little consequence as he did not admittedly know X 
those residents of Bazidnagar who had attondod the neetinc. 


$ .c. 3 ( ii) 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25. 1960 /MAGHA $ , 1801 


317 


The evidence of Dwarka and Nlikanth is of little avail as it is conflicting 
about the number of days Intervening between the polling and the meeting and the 
intervening period appears to have been given with reference to the date of 
polling in Dabelia about which there is no evidence . The meeting had taken 
place 4 -6 days before polling according to Dwarka ard 3 days before polling 
according to Nilkanth . Dwarka has expressed his inability to tell the date of 
polling in Dahelia . He could not even say if the voting in Dahelia had taken 
place before or after Basidnager . 


There is evidence of Ishwari, Budha, Pooran son of Behari, Talib Ali, Pareci 
Lal, Pooran son of Thamman , Mangli, Bulaqi, Gaya Din , Akhtar Husain , Hulshi 
and Jibba ( R .WS, 2 to 10 and 14 to 16th rebuttal) . Out of them Ishwari, Budhe , 
Pooran son of Behari, Talib Ali, Pragi Lal, Pooran son of Thamman , Mangli and 
Bulagi are residents of Bazidnagar while Gaya Din is resident of hamlet of 
Bazidnagar; Akhtar Husain and Tulshi are resident of Shahpur Sayyadan and 
Jibba is resident of a hamlet of Shahpur Sayyadan . The evidence is of little 
avail as Akhtar Husain , Tulsi and Jibba have not stated that they remained all 
along with Daya Shankar and the others have specifically stated that they did 
not remain all along with Daya Shankar . The residence of Bazidnagar could 
be amenable to the influence of Zafar Husain of Pihani who had zamindari 
there before its abolition according to Budha, Pooran and Gaya Din of whom 
Pooran and Gaya Din also admit to have been tenants of Zatar Husain , Zafar 
Husain could be under obligation to the respondent No. 1 as it has already 
been noted that he and Hamid Ali belonged to rival parties and he assumed 
Presidentship of the Pihani Municipal Board when no confidence motion WAS 
passed against Hamid Ali on account of Respondent No . 1 not leading support 
to Hamid Ali, Aga Ali and Jiwan Lal ( P .Ws. 26 and 57 ) have stated that Zafar 
Husain had worked for Congress . Aqa Ali has further specifically stated that 
Zafar Husain had worked for respondent No. 1 in the General Elections of 1967. 
The cvidence in rebuttal is thus not satisfactory but that is of little consequence 
when the petitioner s evidence has not been believed . 


There is evidence of Bakhtan Şingh , Mahendrapal Singh , Sundar Lal, and 
Prabhu ( P .Ws. 21 to 23 and 34 ) about Jagdish Prasad having canvassed for 
respondent No . 1 on 2nd March 1957 in Karawan where polling took place on 9th 
March , 1957 according to polling agency forms ( Ex . A35 and A36 ) . The evidence 
of the first three could relate to canvassing on 2nd March , 1957 as they have 
stated that Jagdish Prasad had held meeting 6 — 7 days before voting but not 
of Prabhu as he has stated that the meeting was held 10 - 12 days before voting. 
The evidence of Prabhu could not relate to the meeting about which the other thrce 
have stated as it was held at Shyam Lal s chaupal according to him while it had 
taken place at Shyam Lal s house according to others. Sundar Lal excludes the 
presence of Bakhtan Singh , Mahendrapal Singh and Prabhu from the meeting by 
stating that thakur- Zamindars and members of other castes than Brahming, 
kachhis , Pasis, chamars and banias did not attend the meeting as Bakhtan Singh 
and Mahendrapal Singh are thakur -zamindars and Prabhu is sweeper by caste . 


These witnesses could have soft corner for the petitioner as Sundar Lal heo 
stated that three schools were opened in Karawan during the petitioner a 
Presidentship of District Board . Prabhu could even be amenable to the influenco 
of the petitioner as he is admittedly in District Board service for three years 
and as petitioner is undisputedly Vice - President of Antriam Zila Parishad at 
present. Bakhtan Singh could be interested in the petitioner as admittedly he 
was polling agent at Karwan for Jansangh candidate , Kalka Singh and his 
brother and kinsmen are married in Neer which is petitioner s home. He could 
also be interested in against the Respondent because admittedly he and his 
family sided Shamlal for Pradhanship of his village against Shiv Singh ( R . W . 
66 ) who is admittedly an old Congressman and had worked for Congress and 
Respt, No. 1 . His untrustworthiness is evident from his admission that he had 
made false promise to the Respondent No. 1 to vote for him and to Sitla Charan 
Bajuai to vote for his wife who was also Congress candidate . 


Jagadish Prasad is least likely to have been employed by the respondent No. 
1 for his canvassing because Sudeshlal has stated that the canvassing for 
Respondent No. 1 was done by Chief and other Ministers of U . P ., Ram Sagar 
and Shiv Singh of whom Shiv Singh is an influential man of the village and 
went from door to door while the Chief and other Ministers addressed meeting 
and public was influenced by their speeches . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


318 . THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHIA 3. 1881 [Part II 
- - - - - -- - - -- - -- - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
Shiv Singh and Ram Sagar ( R Ws. 66 and 67 ) have been examined in 
rebuttal. The evidence of Ram Sagar is of little avail as it is specifically for 
Ist March 1957 when he claims to have gone to Karawan , presumbly 110m 
Jareli where he was admittedly posted as District Board teacher in those days 
It could be of little avail also because he had admitted that he did not attend 
any election ineeting, that he has no personal knowledge about persons who may 
have addressed such meetings and that he does not known when and where 
the election meetings were convened by P . Ş . P , Jan Sangh and Congress The 
uncorroborated testimony of Shiv Singh does not carry conviction as admittedly 
he is an old Congressman and had worked for Congress and the Respondent 
No. 1 in the general elections of 1957. The elimination of rebutting evidence is , 
however , of little consequence when the petitioner s evidence has been found 
not to be satisfactory . 


There is evidence of Jagdish (not Jagdish peon of Collection Amin ) , Khanna 
and Dwarka ( P .Ws. 24, 43 and 44) i support of Jagdish Peon having canva sed 
for respondent No. 1 on 8th March 1957 in Mansoor Nagar where voting took 
place on 9th March 1957 according to Chhotey Lal ( R . W . 45 ) their evidence is 
unsatisfactory as it is conflicting about venu , the date of meeting and the gathor 
ing in the meeting . 


Jagadish has stated that the meeting was held in Mansoor Nagar at the 
house of Sukhdarshan Lal, retired District Board teacher , 45 days before 
voting and was attended by 25 - 30 residents of Mansoor Nagar . He is corroborat 
od by Khanna about venu of the meeting only as Khanna has stated that the 
mecting was convened 3 - 4 days before voting and was attended by 40 - 50 
residents of Mansoor Nagar . They are both contradicted by Dwarka in as 
much as Dwarka has stated that the meeting was held in Mansoor Nagar s 
hamlet Ainthapurwa at the joint chaural of himself and his cousin Dwarka 
4 - - 6 days before voting and was attended by all the 100 voters of that hamict . 
Khanna admittedly resides in Ainthapurwa and has stated that he had gone to 
Manador Nagar for attending the meeting with others including Dwarka . He 
is contradicted by Dwarka who has stated that no meeting was convened and 
addressed by Jagadish Prasad in Mansoor Nagar Khanna and Dwarka both 
exclude the presence of Jagadish from the mecting addressed by Jagadish Prasad 
tasmuch as they have stated they did not see Jagadish in the ineeting . 


Jagadish has stated that Jagadish Prasad s meeting was attended among 
others by Rameshwar Prasad , Chhotry Lal, Shyam Sundar and Tilak Ram 
(RWs. 44 , 45 , 47 and 48 ) but is contradicted by them They and Mallenh 
Prasad (RW , 161 have been examined in rebuttal. Rameshawar Prasad is a 
Pradhan of Sujauli Tiguma and resides in village Machheta which was includert 
un Mansoor Nagar polling centre . He has stated that no mecting was held by 
Jagadish Prasad at the door of Khanna and Dwarka in Ainthapurwa which is at 
# distance of 314 mile from Mansoor Nagar and Machheta . He has further stated 
that no meeting was held by Jagadish Prasad anywhere including Mansooi 
Nagar, He is corroborated about Jagadish Prasad having not hold any , meeting 
in Mansoor Nagai or Ainthapurwa by Tilal Ran ( R . W . 48 ) who is Alesident of 
Mansoor Nagar , Chhotey Lal, Mahesh Prasarl and Shyam Sundar ( R .Ws 45 to 
471 bave stated that no meeting was held by Jagdish Prasad in Mansoor Navas 
at the house of Sukhdarshan Lal Chhotey Lal is sarpanch of Mansoor Nacer 
centre while Shyam Sundar is practising Vaid of Mansoor Nagar and Mahe h 
Prasad is admitted even by Jagdish ( P . W . 24 ) to be a staunch Congressman , 


Rameswar Prasad has stated that Mahesa Prasad only bad worked for 
Congresy in Machheta , Mansoor Nagar und Ainthapurwa while Mahesh Pratad 
has stated that he was the chief worker of Respondent No. 1 for Mansoor Nagar 
Mandal in the general elections of 1957. There is no wonder in Mahesh Prasad 
working whole - heartedly for the respondent No 1 as he has stated that he has 
been in Congress since 1932 , was prosecuted in 1953 under section 500 I. P . C 
with the Respondent No . 1 by Mohanlal Varma, has all along belonging to 
respondent No l s party and had worked as polling agent for Respondent No. 1 
at Umasanda polling centre . Besides Mahesh Prasad Respondent No. 1 bad 
another well- to - do influential and ordent worker in Hakim Shyam Sundar 
Accordingly to Dwarka. The Respondent No. 1 is consequently not likely to 
have utilized the service of Jagadish Prasad for his canvassing especially when 
Jagdish Prasad ( P . W . 24 ) has stated that the residents of Mansoor Nagar are 
mostly Congressites . 


319 


SEC, 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA . JANUARY 28 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1891 
- -- - = - - - - = = - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - --- 
· Jagdish is not likely to have canyassed for Respondent No. 1 as , apart from 
having been found to have suffered on respondent No . I s complaint he had voted 
for Jansangh in Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies in the general elections 
of 1957. The unchallenged testiinony of D . L . Agarwal ( R . W . 56 ) , the then Mun 
sif Hardoi and Presiding officer at the Municipal Board School Pihanı polling 
centre, is to the effect that the name of the voter was struck off from the list of 
voters and the number of ballot paper was noted at the margin against the 
struck off voter when ballot paper was given to him . It appears from voters list 
( Ex . A80 ) that ballot papers Nos. 8801A and B were given to Jagdish prasad who 
was entered at S . No. 48 . Thoge ballot papers were found in the pooled hallot 
papers of Shiv Din and Niranjan Singh who were admittedly Jan Sangh candi 
dates for general and reserved seats respectively , when the ballot box containing 
pooled ballot papers were opened on respondent No . I s application on 13th June, 
1959. It has been argued that Jagdish is not likely to have canvassed for the 
respondent No. 1 as respodent No. 1 s nephew and pairokar Respt. No. 4 has stated 
that quarrel had taken place between him and Jagdish Prasad on Jagdish Prasad 
being stopped by him canvassing against Congress candidates inside Municipal 
Primary School Pihanı polling centre. But I am not prepared to accept it as the 
respondent No. 4 is a highly interested witness and his testimony is not corrobo 
rated . The corroboration of his testimony was possible as he stated that people 
hari collected round him and Jagdish Prasad when the quarrel took place . His 
" vidence is unacceptable also because voting is likely to have taken place in the 
Municipal Primary School Pihanı polling centre on 9th March , 1957 when polling 
took place in other polling centres of Pihani according to Abdul Hai ( R . W . 251 
and Exls 34 to 39 and A41 read with the testimony of D . L . Agarwal ( R . W . -56 ) 
and on that date Jagdish Prasad was in Mansoor Nagar according to Chhotoy Lal 
(RW 45 ) and Jagdish ( P . W . 24 ) . 

There is thus no satisfactory cvidence about Jaqdish Prasad having canvas ed 
ſur respondent No . 1 in Karawan and Mansoor Nagar. 

It may be noted that Ashraf Husain , Imam Ali, Abdur Razzaq , Mohammad 
Sami, Maiku Lal, Sana Ullah , Abdul Hai and Abdul Qadar ( R . Wy 19 to 26 ) have 
stated that Jagdish Prasad did not work for the respondent No 1 in Pihani This 
evidence appears to have been adduced as Waris Ali ( P . W 40 ) Ghulam Nahi 
( P , W . 41 ) and Mohaninicd Sawi PW 42 have stated in cros -nxamination that 
Jagdish Prasad had canvassed votes for all Congress candidatos includine the 
le -pondent No. 1 in Pihani som days befort polling . The entre evidence about 
canvassing by Jagdish in Pihani is , however, of little Avail as thn prtitioner has 
not pleaded about such canpassing. 


The evidence about Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar being appointed polling 
28unts by Respondent No. 1 may now be considered Exis 5 and 35 have been 
relied on in this connection . Ex . 5 is a polling Agency form datud ist March , 
1957 where by Daya Shankar is said to have been appointed pooling aeent of 
pooling sation No. 170 at Hansbarauli while Ex . 33 im polug agency 
form dated 9th March , 1957 whereby Jagdish Praşad is said to have been appoint 
ed polling agent for polling station No 30 at Junior High School Pihani by the 
respondent No. 1 In oral pleadings recorded on 9th April, 1958, the respondent 
No. 1 had stated that he was not definite in respect of any one of them if the 
signatures thereon were made by him or not but he was sure that he did not 
# ppointed Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar his polling agents and workers as 
they were his enemies for a long time before the election Further he had stated 
on that very date that in case it is found that any of these exhibits bears his 
signature it may be that some blank forms signed by him were given to some of 
huis workers and the petitioner managed to obtain some of them somehow and 
thereafter, in collusion with Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad inserted their 
names in those forms. He had algo stated that rioned blank fornis vore put in 
tie election office of the District Congres commitite which had burn in the 
charge of Ganesh Prasad and Shyama Charan clerks and may have been oblaineu 
from there by the petitioner or his supporters and workers ; that the workers 
were given the said forms from the said office but no record was maintained of 
the workers to whom they were given and that it could not be said which of the 
workers took the said forms from the said office as thousands of workers were 
then working for him . 

M , Y . Khan , R . A . Gregorv . Pratap Narain , Wajahat Ali and Mangannath 
( P . Ws. 45 , 46 , 54 , 58 and 50 , have been relied upon for the petitioner in support 
of Exts . 5 and 35 having gnatures of the respondent No. 1 . Thcir evidence also 
relates to Ex . 36 whercby the respondent No. 1 is alleged to have appointed Shanti 
Swarup as his polling agent. But it is of little avail as Shanti Swarup has not 


320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 5, 1881 


[PART I 


been found to be a Government servant of the class specified in section 123 (7 ) 

( 1 ) of the H . P . Act. I shall therefore , ignore the evidence relating to Ex . 30 in 
further discussion . 


M . Y . Khan is an Assistant to R . A . Gregory hand -writing expert Lucknow 
and does document photography for him . He has proved the enlargements of 
the alleged signatures of the respondent No . 1 on Exts . 35 and 5 which are 
marked D1 and D3 respectively in Ex . 31 and of admitted signatures of respon . 
dent No . 1 on power of attorney dated 4th July 1957, notice under section 97 
R . P . Act dated 17th July 1957, Recriminatory Charges and schedules A to C , I 
and F of Recriminatory Charges ( papers Nos. 7C , 11A / 1 , 11A / 2 , 11A / 5 11A / 0 , 
11A / 7 , 11A / 9 and 11A / 10 ) marked si to S8 respectively in Ext. 32. RA 
Gregory is of the opinion that the disputed signatures are similar to admitted 
signatures. It is not necessary to consider the evidence of these witnesses as the 
learned counsel for the parties have conceded before me in the course of argu 
ments that the opinion of expert cannot be basis of Inding where there are con 
Nicting opinion of the experts and in this case the respondent No. 1 has produced 
two experts who are of the opinion that the disputed signatures are not similar 
to admitted signatures . 


Pratap Narain Wajahat Ali and Magannath have stated that Exts. 5 and 35 
bear signatures of the respondent No . 1 in English . Their evidence is to be 
looked with extreme caution because they were not cited as witnesses of issue 
No . 7 ( b ) in the original list of witnesses dated 1st December 1958 and were 
cited as such on 4th December 1958. The name of at least Pratap Narain could 
have been cited in the original list of witnesses as he has stated on 22nd April 
1959 that he had told the petitioner about a year ago that he could identity 
signatures of the respondent No . 1 and had in his possession letters signed by 
the respondent No. 1 . 

Pratap Narain is not a reliable witness as he has admittedly cordial relations 
with the petitioner for the last 15 years and was prosecuted once under section 
409 I. P . C . and once under section 420 I. P . C . He could not identity the signatures 
of the respondent No. 1 as he does not claim to have seen him writing . He claims 
to know the signatures of the respondent No. 1 on account of having correspond 
ence with him from 1950 to 1957 in connection with elections but it is not possiblo 
to believe him as no letter has been filed by him , although he claims to have 
in his possession the said letters and the specific evidence of the Deft No. 1 that 
he did not ever have correspondence with him has not been challenged in cross 
examination . It was suggested to the respondent No . 1 that Pratap Narain was 
Treasurer of Madhoganj Congress Mandal from 1952 to 1957 but he has plcaded 
tgnorance about it. The suggestion could have no truth as Pratap Narain hau 
stated that he had never joined Congress . It appears to have been made as the 
respondent No . 1 has admitted that his writings and signatures used to go to 
Mandal Congress Committees when he was President of the District Congress 
committee 


It has been argued by the learned counsel for the respondent No . 1 that Pratap 
Narain is not an independent witness on account of his intimate relations with 
petitioner s well -wisher , Mohan Lal Varma, In support of such relations he has 
relied on the fact that he had resigned from Congress in 1953 when Mohan Lal 
Varma was expelled according to Ex . A53 dated 24th June 1958 which has been 
proved by Shyama Charan Varma ( R . W . 39 ) . I do not agree with him as the 
resignation letter in question was not put to him and the evidence of Shyama 
Charan Varma about knowing his signature is unsatisfactory . Shyama Charan 
Varma stated at first that he had seen Pratap Narain signing hundreds of times 
but stated subsequently that Pratap Narain may have signed in his presence 
twice or thrice although he could not recall definitely If Pratap Narain had 
signed in his presence and that he had wrongly stated previously that Pratap 
Norain had signed in his presence hundreds of times. He has definitely stated 
that Pratap Narain had not signed Ex , A53 in his presence . 


Wajahat Ali has stated that he could identify the signatures of the respondent 
No . 1 As he had seen him writing in Hardoi and Sandila and had received 
letters from him from 1953 to 1957. He could have seen the Respt. No . 1 signing 
in Hardoi and Sandila and could have received letters from the respondent No . 1 
from 1953 to 1957 as he has stated that he had joined Congress in 1936 or 1937 
and remained its member upto 1958 , was President from 1940 to 1944 and Secre 
tary in 1945 and 1946 of Sandila Congress Mandal Committee and was elected 
President of the Sandila Municipal Board on Congress ticket in 1953 and continued 
as such till 1958. He could identify respondent No, l s signatures on Ex , 7 and 
A35 to A38 when they were shown to him in cross - examination The respondent 


SEC, 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


321 


No. 1 has admitted that Wajahat Ali was president of Sandila Municipal Board 
on Congress ticket from 1953 to 1957 and has not denied that he had signed in 
Hardoi and Sandila in the presence of Wajahat Ali auut that Wajahat Ali was 
member of Congress from 1936 or 1937 to 1958 and was President from 1940 
to 1914 and Societary in 1945 and 1946 oſ Sandila Congress Mandal Committee , 
He has denied that he had correspondenie with Wajahat Ali and 
that instructions were sent to President Municipal Board by the 
District Congress Committee but has aclmoitted that his writings and signatures 
used to come to Congress Mandal Committees when he was President of the 
District Congress Committce . He has not refuted Wajahat Ali s testimony about 
having been President of Sandila Congress Mandal Committee but has simply 
stated that he could not recall to memory it Wajahat All wus office bearer of 
Sandila Congress Mandal Committee, when his writings and signatures were sent 
to Congress Mandal Committees, llis loss of memory could be due to attack 
of Cerebral thrombosis in January 1959 as stated by him and his cousin res 
pondent No . 4 . In view of his admission that his writings and signatures used 
to go to Congress Mandal Committees Wajahat Ali could be familiar with his 
signatures . He has stated that Wajahat Ali belonged to the party of Mohan Lal 
Varma till 1956 but that is of little consequence as Wajahat Ali is not said to 
have belonged to the party of Mohan Lal Varma in 1957 when the general elec 
tions took place or subsequent to it . I have consequently no hesitation in believ 
ing the cvidence of Wajahat Ali on the point. 


Magan Nath has stated that he could identify the signatures of the respondent 
No , 1 as he received 15 - 20 letters from him in his capacity as Chiet Whip in 
1953-54 of the Congress party in the Sandila Municipal Board of which he was 
mcmber on Congress ticket from 1953 to 1957. I have no hesitation in believing 
him as the respondent No. 1 has not denied that instructions were sent to the 
Chief Whip of the Congress Party in Sandila Municipal Board although he has 
stated that no Instructions were sent to the President Municipal Board Sandila 
by the District Congress Committce. The respondent No. 1 had admitted at first 
that Magan Nath was Chief Whip but in the next breath stated that he could 
not recall to memory about Magan Nath having been Chief Whip of the Congress 
party in the said Board . His subsequent statement could be duc to loss of 
memory for reason already given by me while considering the evidence of 
Wajahat All. 


It has been argued that the testimony of Magan Nath is unworthy of credence 
as he has admitted that after remaining in the Congress from 1936 to 1957 he 
joined in 1957 P . S .P . of which Mohan Lal Varma is founder and leader in 
Hardoi district, that he was selected as P . S . P . candidate for Sandila Municipal 
Board in 1958 and that in the general elections of 1957 he worked as polling 
agent at Sandila for Mohan Lal Varma. I do not agree as his evidence is 
corroborated by Wajahat Ali who has been found to le an independent witness . 


The respondent No. 1 and his nephew respondent No . 4 have stated that 
Exts . 5 and 35 do not bear the signatures of the respondent No. 1 . I am not 
prepared to belicve them for the reasons to be just stated . They are both 
highly interested and are not corroborated by any other witness , except the 
handwriting experts (RW . 51 and 52 ) whose opinion cannot be basis of 
finding as has already been noted in connection with the cyidence of Petitioner s 
hand -writing expert R A . Gregory. The Respondent No. 1 could not identify 
in cross -ex -imination his own signature on Ext. 8 when signature alone was shown 
to him and further stated that he would not be able to identify his other 
signatures if signatures only are shown to him after he had stated on Secing 
the entirc Exhibits 5 , 35 , A84 and A86 in examination - in - chief and the whole of 
Exis. 7 and 8 fii cross - examination that they bore his signatures . The Respondent 
No. 4 has stated on seeing the signatures of Respon . lcnt No. 1 on Exhibits 7 and 
8 through peglon -hole that they are not signatures of the Respondent No. 1 
Although the Respondent No. 1 has identified his siqnatures on them when he 
saw the whole of the exhibits and Gaiodhar ( R . W . 37 ) , who was appointed 
polling agent by the Respondent No 1 through Ext 7 , has stated that he was 
rolling agent of the Respondent No. 1 . 


The Respondent No . 4 has stated that he came to know on inspecting Exhibits 
5. und 35 on 26th June 1957 that they did not bear signatures of the Respondent 
No 1 and told the Respondent No. 1 and Respondent No. l s counsel about it 
writhin 9 - 3 days of inspection . But he is contradicted by the Respondent No . 1 
who has stated that he was not so told beforr his written statement being filed on 
22nd July 1957, The Respondent No . 1 has further stated that he was not sure 
it the signatures on those exhibits were genuine or fictitious till 9th April, 1958 


322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 8. 1881 


[l ART II 


when his statement was recorded in oral pleadings and that he came to know 
about the signatures being Artitious when he consulted experts after 9th April 1958 , 

The Respondent No. 4 has stated that the entire Exhibit 5 ls Alled up in the 
hand -writing of Prakash Chandra and that some words in Exhibit 36 are in 
the hand -writing of Mohan Lal Varma. He iş materially corroborated about 
Ext. 5 by Gokaran Nath Bajpai ( R . W , 38 ) who is admittedly cousin of Prakash 
Chandra Bajpai, and about Ext. 35 by Shyam Charan Varma ( R . W . 39 ) who is 
permanent Secretary of the District Congress Committee Hardoi. The evidence 
of all these witnesses is inadmissible as there was no plea of the Respondent 
No. 1 about what they have stated . There should have been such plea as the 
Respondent No. 4 has stated that he had suspected Ext 5 to be in 
the hand -writing of Prakash Chandra Bajpal and found Ext. 35 to be in the 
hand - writing of Mohan Lal Varma when he inspected these exhibits on 26th 
June 1957 and that he had told the Respt . No . 1 and the counsel for 
Respondent No. 1 about it within 2 - 3 days of inspection , 

The Respondents 1 and 4 have stated that the Respondent No . 1 had not 
appointed Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar as his polling agents . I have no 
hesitation in believing them on the point as I have already found that on the 
complaints of the Respt No. 1 both Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad had 
come to grief before the general elections of 1957 . 

It may be that some blank polling agency forms bearing signatures of the 
Respondent No . 1 some-how came into possession of his enemies and not only 
the names of Jagdish Prasad and Daya Shankar were filled in them but they 
were got produced before Presiding Officer through some Actitious person . 

It would not have been very difficult for the enemies of the Respondent No. 1 
to some-how get blank polling Agency forms signed by the Respondent No . 1, 
as the Respondent No . 1 has stated that he had kept sorme such forms with the 
clerk of the District Congress Committee of which his political rival and petitioner s 
well-wisher Mohan Lal Varma had been office bearer from 1946 to 1953 . He 
has no doubt further stated that he had given such forms to only 10 Congress 
candidates for Assembly , seats of his Parliamentary constituency but that is of 
little consequence as he has also stated that the forms given to the said candidates 
were only some of the torms which he had left with the rilerk of the District 
Congress Committee . 

M . P . Sharma ( P . W . 4 ) , who was Presiding Omcer , Hansbaraull polling centre , 
has stated that Ext. 5 was presented hefore him by Daya Shankar but his evidence 
is of little avail as he has stated that he did not know Daya Shankar from before 
and the parentage, occupation and residence of Daya Shankar are not given in 
the said form . 

It has heen argued that Exts. 5 and 35 may have been introduced subsequent 
to election as the envelopes containing polling agency forms were opened for 
ascertaining the number of polling agents from April to June 1957 in the Collecto 
rate Judicial Record Room of which Rerord Keeper was Shankar Singh who 
could be under obligation to the petitioner. In support of Shankar Singh being 
under obligation to the Petitioner reliance has been placed on the fact that 
Shankar Singh s brother Jot Singh is Head Clerk of the Assessing Officer District 
Board Hardoi and the petitioner in his capacity as President of the District Board 
did not accept the advice of the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of 
Polire to suspend him in 1957 when he was involved in a case under section 396 
J .P . C . I see no force in that argument, although the facts on which it is founded 
are established , as the number of polling agents was compiled under the super 
vision of Returning Officers and there is no evidence that the Returning Omrers 
favoured the Petitioner or that the signatures of the Presiding Omrers were 
obtained on the polling agency forms at the time of the compilation of the 
number of polling agents . 

Jagdish Prasad Sinha ( R . W . 7 ) has stated that he was Election Head Clerk 
from April to June 1957 when the number of polling agents was compiled through 
the Returning Omcers and that Shankar Singh was Judicial Record Keeper in 
the Collectorate in May 1957. SK, D . Mathur ( R . W . 71 ) has stated that he was 
Returning Officer of Hardoj Constituency and that the number of polling agents 
was compiled by his staff under his supervision for Hardol constituency in the 
Collectorate Judicial Record Room where the envelopes containing the rolling 
agency forms were kent and opened . Respondent No . 4 has stated that Shankar 
Singh is brother of Jot Singh who is Head Clerk of the Assessing Oncer of the 
District Board Hardoi since before the last general elections. The Petitioner is 
undisputedly Vice - President of the Antrim Zila Parishad at present and was 


SEC, 8 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 


323 


President of the District Board before the Antrim Zila Parishad was constituted . 
It appears from Extş. Ab to A9 and A20 that he had not accepted the advice 
of the Distt . Magistrate and the Superntendent of Police to suspend Jot Singh 
in spite of Jot Singh being involved in a case under section 396 1. P . C . and the 
matter had to be referred to Government. 

It has been argued for the Respondent No. 1 that the Returning Officers could 
not have exercised effective supervision as S . K , D , Mathur has stated that he 
had gone for a short while to the Judicial Record Room when his staff compiled 
the number of polling agents . I see no torce in that argument as the start of 
the Returning Officer is to be presumed to have worked honestly and it is not 
even suggested that the staff had not done so . It has also been argued that the 
signatures on Ext. 5 of the Presiding Officer M . P . Sharma ( P . W . 4 ) could have 
been obtained subsequent to the election as he is a sympathiser o Jansangh 
and has intimacy with Sri Ram Chaddha who is an Agent for the sale of National 
Savings Certificates and has intimacy with Petitioner who had got large amount 
of District Board funds invested in the Small Savings Scheme of which he is 
an organizer. The testimony of Shiv Lal Bhasin ( R . W . 40 ) and the respondent 
No, 1 as well as Ex . A56 have been relied on in this connection but they do 
not justify the conclusion for the rcasons to be just stated . 


Shịy Lal Bhasin only has stated that M . P . Sharma is a sympathiser of Jan 
sangh and he found him favouring Jansangh and opposing Congress in his talks 
at the house of Sri Ram Chaddha , I am not rreoured to believe him on the 
point as no suggestion was made to M . P , baina in his cross - examination . It 
has been stated by the Respondent No. 1 that in January or February 1957 he 
had complained to S . K . D . Mathur, District Election Olicer verbally that M . P . 
Sharma should not be appointed Presiding Officer anywhere as he had Jansangh 
leanings but he is contradicted by S . K . D . Mathur ( R . W . 71 ) . It has 
been stated by S . K . D . Mathur that one day before polling 
the Respondent No. 1 requested him that M . P . Sharma be withdrawn from 
Purbawa polling centre in Sandila constituency as the polling centre was located 
in a Muslim graveyard and the stall appointed there was behaving in such a 
manner that there was apprehension of IIindu voters not turning up there . He 
has turther specifically stated that the Respondent No. 1 did not ask him not 
to appoint M . P . Sharma Presiding Other at any other polling centre in his 
constituency and that he did not remove M , P : Sharma as he found the complaint 
of the Respondent No . 1 to be baseless . It has bcen stated by both Shiv Lal 
and the Respondent No, 4 that M . P . Sharma has cordial relations with Sri Ram 
Chaidha who belongs to Jansangh . From the mere association of M . P Sharma 
with Sri Ram Chaddha having Jansangh leaning it cannot be inferred that he is 
a sympathiser of Jansangh As he could associate with Sri Ram Chaddha cn 
account of being organizer of Small Savings Scheme and Sri Ram Chaddha being 
agent for the sale of National Savings Certificates according to both Shiy Lal 
and the Respondent No. 4 M . P . Sharma has admitted that he is organizer and 
Sri Ram Chaddha is agent of National Sayings Scheme and that he knows Sri Ram 
Chardha but has pleaded ignorance about Sri Ram Chaddha belonging to Jansangh 
party . 


There can be no doubt about the intimacy of Sri Ram Chaddha with the 
pctitioncs as Ext. A56 proved by Shiv Lal shows that the petitioner had appointed 
him counting agent on 20th March 1957. This intima y could , however be of 
little avail in the absence of any evidence that Sri Ram Chaddha had in any way 
influenced M , P , Sharma, The Respondent No. 4 has stated that the petitioner 
had deposited Rs. 807, 000 / - through Sri Ram Chaddha in the National Savings 
Scheme in 1957 but his evidence on the point is inadmissible being hear - say . 
M . P Sharma could not recollect how murh amount Sri Ram Chaddha had got 
deposited by the District Board Hardoi and has stated that he had himself got 
Rs. 50 000 / - deposited in 1955 - 56 by the District Board and about Rs. 45 , 000 / 
by the Adhyaksh Antrim Zila Parishad in 1947 -48. Even if the petitioner 
deposited anything on behalf of the District Board through Sri Ram Chaddha 
he could have done so as Sri Ram Chaddha is admittedly authorized agent of 
National Savings Scheme. 

It has been argued that M , P . Sharma s leanings for Petitioner are evident 
from the fact that according to him Daya Shankar had worked throughout the 
day at the polling station although Daya Shankar could not have done so in 
view of Rule 22 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Representation of People ( Conduct of Elections 
and Election Petitions ) Rules, 1956 as Ext. 7 reveals that Gaiodhar Prasad 
( R . W . 27 ) was the other polling agent for the same polling station . I see no 
force in that argument as M . P . Sharma has not definitely stated that Daya 
Shankar had worked throughout the day but has simply stated that there being 


- - 


324 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA :, JANUARY 28 , 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 [PART II 

- - - - - - 
only two agency forms Exts . 5 and 7 both the polling agents appointed through 
them should be deemed to have worked throughout the day as there were two 
polling stations in Hansbarauli polling centre of which he was Presiding omcer , 
Obviously he did not notice that Exts. 5 and 7 are the polling agency forms for 
the same polling station and Ex 8 proved by him is the polling agency forin for 
the other polling station . He cannot be dubbed as partial to the Petitioner 
simply because he failed to notice that Exts . 5 and I are polling agency forms 
for the same polling station and Ex , 8 is polling agency form for the other pulling 
station , 

The evidence about Daya Shankar and Jagdish Prasad having actually 
worked as polling agents may now be considered . 

There is evidence of M . P . Sharma, Briſballabh Singh , Raghunath Singh , 
Sripal Singh , Baburam , Mahesh Bux Suigh and Mihi Lal ( P .Ws. 4 , 47 to 51 and 
53 ) about Daya Shankar having worked as polling agent of Hansbarauli on 
3rd March 1957, Out of them the evidence of M . P , Sharma, Brijballabh Singh , 
Raghunath Singh and Mihi Lal is of little avail as they have stated that they do 
not know Dava Shankar and consequently the person who according to them 
worked as Daya Shankar may not havo been Daya Shankar lekhpal. The evidence 
of the remaining thrce witnesses , who knew Daya Shankar from before is un 
aceptable as they are interested . They are cousins inter - se . Out of them Babu 
Ram and Mahesh Bux Singh were admittedly pulling agents for Jansangh candi 
dates, Surendra Nath and Jamnan Singh respectively , Sripal Singh though a 
polling agent for Mahesh Singh a Congress candidate for Assembly , had 
admittedly voted for the Petitioner who was a Jansangh candidate , 

There is evidence of Gajodhar, Tilak , Niranjan Lal, Putan Lal Lochan , Chhedi 
Lal, Shyam Behari and Shivnandan Lal ( R .Ws. 27 to 33 and 60 ) in rebuttal of 
Daya Shankar having worked as polling agent for Respondent No. l . Their 
evidence is also worthless for reasons to be just stated . Gajodhar Prasad Putan 
Lal, Chhedi Lal, Shyam Bchari and Shiv Nandan Lal arc highly interested as Gajo 
dhar and Chhedi Lal were polling agents of Respondent No . 1 Shyfim Behari and 
Shiv Nandan Lal were polling agents for Kindar Lal and Mahesh Singh respectively 
who were Congress candidates and Putan Lal was worker at the Congress camp. 
Chhedi Lal has even stated that he had selected polling agents for Congress 
candidates and Shiv Nandan Lal has stated that he had worked for Congress 
candidates. Tilak and Lochan could not know who were polling agents as they 
are chaulinars and were admittedly posted outside polling centre . They have 
even specifically admitted that there was no reason for them to remember the 
names of polling agents whom they have named . Thus they appear to be 
tutored witnesses . The presence of Naranjan Lal is, to say the least , very doubt 
ful as his polling agency form is not among the polling agency forms of Hans 
barauli centre proved by M P . Sharma although he cloims to have been pollino 
agent for Tika Ram . Gajodhar , Tilak , Niranjan Lal and Lochan did not 
admittedly know Daya Shankar lekhpal. Shyam Behari does not appear to 
know Daya Shankar as he has stated that there was no agent of the name of 
Dara Shankar . Putan Lal and Shiv Nandan Lal have not specifically stated 
that Daya Shankar did not work as polling agent. Putan Lal only has stated 
that he knew Daya Shankar from before but that is unlikely The only reason 
given by him for knowing him is that he had played cards with him for about 
24 hours about three years ago when he had gone to some village Dhubia . It 
is unlikely that he could have known Daya Shankar after having met him 
casually like this . The worthlessness of the evidence in reliance is however , 
of little consequence when the petitioner s evidence on the point has been found 
to be unsatisfactory 


There is evidence of Shafiq Khan , Azmat Ullah , Maiku Lal, Mohammad Rafiq , 
Waris Ali, Ghulam Nabi and Mohammad Sami ( P .Ws. 35 to 38 and 40 to 42 ) in 
supnort of Jagdish Prasad having acted as polling agent of the respondent No 1 
at Junior High School Pihani on 9th March 1957. They could all he under the 
influence of Petitioner s sympathiser and Respondent No. 1 s opponert Hamid 
Ali as they reside in Pihani of which the entire abadi belongs to Hamid Ali as 
has already been found Waris All, Ghulam Nabi and Mohammad Sami could 
be under the influence of Hamid Ali also berausc Waris Alt and Mohammad Sami 
have admittedly their shops and Ghulam Nabi works as barber sitting on land 
belcnging to Hamid Ali and Waris Ali does not admittedly pay anything for 
keeping shop on Tamid Ali s land . Waris All could be under the influence of 
Hamid Ali for another leason It is that his nephew is the motor driver of 
Hamid A11. Waris Ali admitted at first that his nephew Akhtar is motor driver 
of Hamid Ali but in the next breath he stated that the said nephew is not in 
thr service of Hamid Ali but is employed with some one else in Sitapur, He may 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MACHA 3, 1881 


325 


have made the subsequent statement on realizing the damaging elicct of his first 
statement. It has been argued that Ghulam Naby could be under the influence 
of Hamid Ali for the reason that Ghulam Nabi s mother is in the service of Hamid 
Ali s relation Mustafa Ali according to Abdul Hai ( R . W . 25 ) . I see no force 
in that argument as I am not prepared to believe the uncorroborated statement 
of Abdul Hai on account of his Interestedness in the Respondent No. 1 , especially 
when it was not even put to Ghulam Nabi that his mother was employed in the 
service oť Mustafa Ali and that Mustafa Ali is a relation of Hamid Ali . It was 
put to Ghulam Nabi if his mother was in the service of Mustafa Ali but he rate 
gorically denied that fact . Further he pleaded ignoranre about relationship of 
Mustafa Ali with Hamid Ali. 


Mohammad Ratiq could be under Ure influence of the petitioner as he was 
admittedly polling agent of Jansangh candidate Ramlotan while Shafiq Khan , 
Azmat Ullah , and Maiku Lal could be under the infuenre of pctitioner s ardent 
supporter and Respondent No. 1 s political rival Mohan Lal Varma as Shafiq Khan 
and Azmat Ullah were admittedly polling agents of Nathu Lal and Maiku Lal 
was admittedly polling agent of Ram Murti who were set up us candidates by 
P . S . P on which the founder and leader is Mohan Lal Varma, Shafiq Khan Azmat 
Ullah ir vaiku Lal could not be independent also because Mohammad Rafig 
has stru- a inat they were workers and polling agents of the Petitioner . Azmat 
Ullah s attachment with Mohanlal Varma is also evident from the fact that he 
had admittedly resigned from Congress when Mohan Lal Varma was expelled 
from it in 1953. 


The only evidence in rebuttal of Jagdish Prasad working as polling agent for 
respondent No . 1 is of Abdul Hai ( R . W . 25 ) . I am not prepared to believe his 
uncorroborated testimony on account of his interestedness . He had admittedly 
supported the 110 -confidence motion against Hamid Ali s Presidentship of Pihani 
Municipal Board in 1955 when the Respondent No . 1 did not lend his support 
to Hamid All as has already been found . Flę was further admittedly Congress 
candidate for Municipal Board Pihani in the last Muni Ipal Election . He had 
also uclmittedly supplied to the Respondent No . 1 Ex , A42 which has keen utilized 
for comparison of the hand -writing of Prakash Chandra Bajpai in it with that 
in Ex , 5 acco ding to Hari Singh , P , R . Mahant and M , K , Mehta ( P . W . 49, 51, and 
52 ) of whom Ilari Singh is the photographer and the other two are hand -writing 
experis 


In rebuttal of Petitioner s evidence reliance has also been placed on the state . 
ment of Jagdish ( P . W . 24 ) that Jagdish Prasad was at Mansoor Nagar polling 
centre throughout the day when pulling took place there and the polling at that 
centre had taken place on 9th March 1957 according to Chetey Lal ( R . W , 45 ) who 
has also corroborated Jagdish on the point, I see no force in that argument as 
I am not prepared to believe Jagdish and Chhotey Lalf about Jagdish Prasad having 
remined at Mansoor Nagar polline contre throughout on 9th March 1957 in view 
of Jagdish Prasad having been found to have cast his vote at Pihani on that 
very date . 


The unsatisfactoriness of the cvidence in rebuttal is , however of little conse 
quence when the Petitioner s evidence on the point has been found to be unsatis 
fartory . 


For the above reasons I hold that the Petitioner has failed to prove that the 
Respondent No . 1 appointed Daya Shankar And Jagdish Prasad as his canvassers 
und polling agents and they worked as such . The issue is consequently decided 
in negative , 


Issue No. 9 ( a ) 


It has becn argued that the Respondent No . 4 is an unnecessary party as hc 
had admittedly withdrawn from the contest and reliance has been placed in 
support of it on Section 82 ( a ) of the R . P . Art. I see no [ crce in that argument 
as the Respondent No . 4 is a necessary party under section 82 (b ) of the R . P . Act 
in view of allegations having been made against him of corrupt practice on hchalf 
of his uncle Respondent No . 1 . It has also been argued that the provisions of 
Section 82 (b ) of the R . P . Act arc Inapplicable as no allegations of any corrupt 
practice were made against the Respondent No. 4 in hls own interest . Isce nu 
forre in that argument as the said provisions are not confined to allcgations of 
any corrupt practice by the candidate in his own interest . 


326 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29, 1960 /MAGHA $, 1881 [Part II 
- - - - - - -- - - S S 

GEH = = = 
Issue No . 9 (6 ) 

Thę. respondent No . 4 is not entitled to special costs In view of Issue No. 9 (a ) 
having been decided against him . 
Issue No . 10 . 

The Petitioner is not entitled to any relief . He should on the other hand , 
pay custs to Respondents Nos . 1 and 4 who have contested the petition . The issue 
is decided accordingly . 

ORDER 
The election petition is dismissed . The Petitioner should pay Rs. 1000 / - to 
the Respondent No. 1 and Rs. 200 / - to Respondent No . 4 as costs . 

(Sd.) KHADIM ALI, 
Member, Election Tribunal , 
Hardoi, at Shohjahanpur . 

30th October , 1959 . 
M . All. 

Let the record be sent to District Judge , Hardoi after requisite copics of the 
Judgment have been sent to the Election Commission , 

( Sd .) KHADIM All, 
Member Election Tribunal. 

30 - 10 -59 . 


W . a . 5200 
No. 7 / 1 - 12 - 59. 

Appeal Clerk 
Copy of order passed by Shri Jagdish Misra , Member Election Tribunal, 
Hardor in Election Petition No. 476 of 1957. 

Instituted on : - 8th May , 1957. 

Ordered on :-- 3rd March , 1958 . 
Sri Niranjan Singh Dev, Age 80 years , Son of Thakur Ratan Singh , R /o 

Village Nir , District Hardoi - Petitioner. 


Versus 
1 . Sri Chedalal, R / o White Ganj, Hardoi, 
2 . Sheo Din , R / o village and Post Office Gopamau , Tahsil and District 

Hardoi. 
3 . Shri Kinderlal, R / o Mohalla Idrisgunj, District Hardoi. 

4 . Sirish Chandra Agarwal, R / o Whiteganj, Distt. Hardoi - Respondents . 
This is an election petition under sections 80 and 81 of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951. It relates to Parliamentary Constituency No: 362, which 
is a double member constituency and out of the two seats one is reserve for 
scheduled caste . There were five candidates to the election to the said constituency . 
They were Sri Niranjan Singh Dev ( petitioner ) , Sri Chheda Lal ( Respondent 
No. 1 ) Sri Sheo Din ( Respondent No. 2 ) , Sri Kinder Lal ( Respondent No. 3 ) and 
Sri Sírísh Chandra Agarwal ( Respondent No. 4 ) . Out of the said candidates , 
respondents Nos . 2 and 3 belong to scheduled caste , The petitioner and the 
respondent No. 2 were candidates of Jan Şangh party and the respondents 
Nos. 1 and 3 were candidates of the Congress party . The petitioner and the 
respondents Nos. 1 to 3 contested the election and the respondent No . 4 withdrew 
from it. The voting took place on several dates from 25th February 1957 to 
14th March 1957. The countings of votes took place between 20th of March , 1957 
and 25th of March 1957. As a result of the countings the respondents Nos . 1 and 
2 were declared elected on 25th March , 1957. Thereafter, on 9th May 1957 , the 
present election petition calling in question the election of the respondent No. 1 
was presented . The pctitioner alleged that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 were 
set up by the Congress and their election propaganda during election was joint, 
that the election of the respondent No, I was void and liable to be set aside on 


Btc. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3; 1881 


327 


the grounds enumerated in para 6 of the election petition , that but for the votes 
obtained by the respondent No . 1 by corrupt practices the petitioner would have 
obtained the majority of valid votes and that both the respondents Nos . 1 and 3 
incurred disqualifications. The petitioner further, in his petition , gave out that 
he had deposited as security the sum of Rs, 1 ,000, the receipt of which was enclosed 
with the petition . The petitioner prays that the election of the respondent No. 1 
be declared void and the petitioner be declared to have been duly elected . He 
further prays that the respondents Nos. 1 and 3 be disqualified and the costs of 
the petition be also allowed to him . 

The respondents Nos, 1, 3, and 4 contest the election petition . The respondent 
No. 2 does not contest it. The respondent No. 1 has further given notice under 
section 97 of the said Act and has complicd with the provisions of giving security 
under the said section . 

The contesting respondents , inter - alia raised the pleas that the deposit of 
Security made by the petitioner was not valid , that the rlection petition was 
liable to be dismissed under section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act 43 of 1951 for non - compliance 
with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act , that the election petition was 
time-barred , and that the election petition was not presented by the proper 
person to the proper authority . The following preliminary issues , which relate 
to the said pleas, have first becn taken up for decision . 

Issues 


1 . Is the deposit of security made by the petitioner valid ? Is the election 
petition liable to be dismissed under section 30 ( 3 ) of the Act No. 43 of 1951 for 
non - compliance with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act ? 

2 . Is the election petition time-barred ? 
3 . ( a ) Was the election presented by the proper person ? 
(b ) Wag the election petition presented not to the proper authority ? 


FINDING 
Issue No. 1, 
Scction 117 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 runs as follows: 
" Deposit of security . The petitioner shall enclose with the petition a 

Government Treasury receipt showing that a deposit of one thousand 
rupecs has been made by hm cither in a Government Treasury or 
in the Reserve Bank of India in favour of the Secretary to the 

Election Commission as security for the costs of the petition " . 
The petitioner enclosed a Government trcasury receipt of Rs. 1, 000 (vide Ex . 
Ci with the petition . Its contents show that he had deposited Rs. 1, 000 as security 
in respect of the election petition on 7th May 1957. It is said on behalf of the 
contesting respondents that the following two requisites are lacking in the receipt :- - 
( 1 ) It is not mentioned in the receipt that the deposit is made in favour 

of the Secretary to the Election Commission , 
( 2 ) It is not mentioned that the security is for costs of the petition . 
It is said that as the said two requisites are lacking , so the deposit is defective 
and not in accordance with the provisions of section 117 of the said Act and as 
such the petition is liable to be dismissed under section 90 ( 3 ) of the said Act it is 
initially urged that the Chief Election Commissioner (Representing the Election 
Commission ) has given a finding that the petition presented is defective and , 
therefore , it is not open to this Tribunal to go behind that finding and this 
Tribunal, as indicated by the order , dated 14th May 1957 of the Chief Election 
Commissioner , should find out whether the defect is curable or not and if it is 
not curable then it should dismiss the election petition . It is said that there 
is no provision in the said Act making the said defect curable so this tribunal 
must dismiss the election petition . The relevant portion of the order , dated 
14th May 1957, of the Chief Election Commissioner runs as follows: 


" The Treasury Chalan , filed with the petition is defective inasmuch as the 

deposit has not been made in favour of the Secretary to the Election 
Commission . This may make it difficult for the costs , if any. ordered 
against the petitioner to be realised out of the deposit . It will be for 


328 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 [PART II 
- - - 

the Tribunal to decide during trial after hearing the parties whether 
the defect in the deposit is latal or may be cured e .g . by a Tresh 
( .epo : 11 o otherwise , so as to safeguard the Respondents right to 

Cuis , : ny, awaided in their tuvoul" . 
It may be us i ve : lic . . th ci e Chicl T lect10 .1 Lommissioner passed the above 
order when no clection tillunt was ajrointed wild when the respondents had 
no notice of the election petition . On 5th June 1957, the Chief Election Com 
missioner passed the following order: 
" Under section 36 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, an Election 

Tribunal consisting of Shri Jagdish Misra , District and Sessions Judge, 
Ilardoi, is appointed for the trial of ihi. pctition ; and under section 
88 of the said Act , Hardoi is appointed as the place of trial. The 
4th July 1957, is fixed as the date lur the first appearance of the 
parties before the Tribunal. Issue notice on the partics accordingly . 

Torward the petition in original li the Tribunal. The original 
treasury chalan should be icept in the Commission in safe custody and 

an attested copy thereof may } .nt to the Tribunal for the present." 
It may be noticed that in the ordei , datud 6ih Jun16 1977 there is nothing to show 
that this order is subject to the previous ordi - , - 11 14th May 1957. In other 
words, the Chie : Election Commissioner , whilc Ind. ding the petition to the 
tribunal, made no direction that the tinunol wou I utlc 11c l eposit as defective 
and proceed to find out if the defect is fatal or curable Evilt it be assumed 
that orders on the order - shcets , read together indı 210 that thc Chief Elcction 
Commissione did give such a direction , still there is nothing in 11e Act to show 
that he had any power to do so . Section 85 of the Act runs as follows: 

Procedure on receiving petition . If the provisions of section 81 or section 

82 or section 117 have not been complied with , the Election Com 

mission shall dismiss the petition : 
" Provided that the petition shall not be dismissed without giving the 

petitioner an opportunity of being heard " , 
If the Chief Elcction Commissioner finds that the deposit is not in l . curance with 
the provisions of section 117 of the said Act, then he shouid (115171 - tie election 
petition under section 85 of the said Act . There is no provision to warrant the 
suumission that the Chief Election Commissioner should live a ſindin , out the 
deposit being defective and leave it to the tribunal to dismiss the petity Section 
9013 ) of the said Act runs as follows:- - 
" The Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply 

with the provisions of section 81, section 82 or section 117 notwith 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission 
under section 85 " , 


The provisions of section 90 ( 3 ) of the said Act indicate that cven if the Election 
Commission finds the deposit to be valid and so does not dismiss the ction 
petition still it is open to the Tribunal to give its own decision on the pool and 
if it comncs to the conclusion that the said provisions have not been complicat with 
it shall dismiss the clecliori petition . This shows that the findings of the Election 
Commission in respect of the deposit have not binding effect upon this Tribuna ). 
In view of the ubove state of affairs , the alleged noting or the alleged finding in 
respect of the alleged cffect in the deposit can not guide the decision of this 
Tribunal on the point. 


It was next urged that as the two requisites have not been complied with so 
apart from the contents of the order - sheet , dated 14th May 1957, This Tribunal 
should dismiss the election petition . The learned counsel for the contesting 
respondents Aled certain iraordinary , U . P . Gazettes containing orders of certain 
Tribunul on , the point not citing them as rulings but adopting the reason given 
therein as his arguments. The carncd counsel for the petitioner Aled a copy of 
order of the Hon ble IIigh Court , Allahabad , in a writ petition and a copy of the 
order of the Hon ble Madrus Tigh Court in certain writ petitions ( vide papers 
Nos . 142C and 143C ). The order of the Hon ble High Court Allahabad was passed 
by a bunch of two Hon ble Judges and the order was delivered by the Hon blo 
Mr. Justice V . Bhaigava . In that case before their Lordships the treasury challan 
did not contain a recital that the deposit was in favour of the Secretary to the 
Election Commission . Their Lordship held that as the Head mentioned in the 
treasury challan was correct, so Secretary to the Election Commission has full 
disposing power over the money and as such the alleged omission was immaterial. 


SEC, 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 329 

- - - - - = 
As there is a direct ruling of the Hon ble High Court, Allahabad , on the point, so 
there is no practical use to refcr to the orders of the various Tribunals and the 
aloicaid order of the Madras High Court . 

It was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that in the receipt in the 
case before their Lordships of High Court , it was given that the deposit was as 
security for the costs whereas in the present case the receipt does not contain it, 
so the aforesaid ruling does not coyer the present casc . The Head of the deposit 
given in the receipt in question is for security for costs of the election petitions. 
As the Head is admittedly correctly given in the roccipt, so it would nccessarily 
show that the deposit is as security for costs ot the election petition , 

In view of the above state of affairs , I hold that the deposit of sccurity made 
by the petitioner is valid and the election petition is not liable to be dismissed 
under section 90 ( 3 ) of the Act No . 43 of 1951 for the allcged non - compliance with 
the provisions of section 117 of the Act. The issue is decided accordingly . 
Issue No. 2, 

The date of the election of the returned candidate, i. e . respondent No. 1, whose 
election is called in question by the election petition is admittedly 25th March 
1957 Tlie date of the presentation of the present election petition is 9th May 
1957 as is evident from the endorsement on the petition and the deposition of 
Sri Moh ın Lal Verma. 

The relevant portion of section 81, which prescribed the limitation may be 
given below : 
" Presentation of Petitions. - ( 1 ) An clection pctition calling in question any 

election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified 
in sub - section ( I ) of section 100 and section 101 to the Election Com 
mission by any candidate at such election or any clcctor within forty 
five days from , but not earlier than , the date of election of the 
returned candidates , or if there are more than one returned candidate 
at the election and the dates of their election are diffcrent, the later 
of those two dates . 


Explanation . — In this sub -section , " elector " means a person who was entitled 

to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether 

he has voted at such election or not. 
If 25th March 1957 is excluded in computing the period of 45 days then the election 
petition is within 45 days from the date of election and if it is included in com 
puting the period of 45 days, then the election petition is barred by time by one 
day . It is urgcd on behalf of the petitioner that the provisions of section 9 of 
the General Clauses Act (Act X of 1897 ) are applicable in this case and the date 
of election i. e . 25th March 1957 should be excluded in computing the period 
of limitation . The version of the contesting respondents is that the provisions of 
the said section of the said Act arc inapplicable so the date of clection can not 
be excluded in computing the period of 45 days so the election petition is barred 
by time. Section 9 of the General Clauses Açt runs as follows: 
" 9 ( 1 ) In any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencenicnt of 

this Act , it shall be sufficient, for the purpose of excluding the first 
in a series of days or any other period of time, to use the word 
" from " und , for the purpose of including the last in a series of days 

or any other period of time, to use the word " to " . 
( 2 ) This section applies also to all Central Acts made after the third day 

of January , 1868 , and to all Regulations made on or after the 
fourteenth day of January , 1887 ." 


It is said on behalf of the contesting respondents that section 9 of the said Act 
applics when the period of limitation is denoted as from such and such date to 
such and such date , I find myself unable to agree with this view because the 
two clauses in the said section , one relating to from and the other relating to to 
are not interdependent but are independent ones. It was further said that 
because of use of the phrase but not earlier than it is apparent that an election 
petition can be presented even on the date of the election so in computing the 
pcriod of limitation the date of election should be included. Simply because an 
elcction pctition can be filed on the date of election , it does not necessarily follow 
that this date shall be included in computing limitation and the provisions of 
section 9 of the General Clausęs Act would be ignored . The learned counsel 


330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 9, 1881 


[PART II . 


for the petitioner produced before me a copy of the extraordinary U . P , Gazette , 
dated 20th February 1957 in which the judgment of the Election Tribunal of 
Saharanpur in election petition No, 37 of 1957 ( Sri Nitya Nand Swami Vs. Sri Brij 
Bhushan Saran ) was published . In that case before the Tribunal issue No . 29 was 
about limitation as in the present case. The Tribunal, while deciding this issue, 
observed : 
" The petition was presented within the prescribed period of 45 days in case 

the date of election is not to be counted in computing the period of 
limitation , but if both the dates of election and the date of presenta 
tion of the petition were to be included in computing the period of 
limitation , the petition would be time barred by one day, Section 
81 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act, lays down that an 
election petition may be presented within 45 days from , but not 
earlier than , the date of the election of the returned candidate . It 
was urged before me that the words " but not earlier than " were of 
great significance and can lead to the only inference that the date 
of the election was also to be included in computing the period of 
limitation . I do not agree with this contention . The provisions con 
tained in section 81 ( 1 ) are similar to the provisions applicable to 
ordinary suits . The limitation Act speaks of the filing of the suits 
within a certain period from the date of accrual of the cause of 
action . As laid down in the General Clauses Act, the date of cause 
of action has to be excluded , i.e ., both the date of cause of action 
and the date of presentation are not to be included in computing the 
period of limitation though a person is at liberty to institute the suit 
on the very date the cause of action had accrued . In other words, 
therefore even though a person has a remedy before the ordinary 
courts of law to seck redress on the date the cause of the action 
accrued , that date has to be excluded in determining the period of 
limitation . The wordings of section 81 ( 1 ) lead me to the same 
inference . It merely provides that no election petition can be 
presented before the date of election , i. e., on the dates preceding the 
declaration of the result of election . This was apparently incorpo 
rated so that no one may present an election petition in anticipation 
of the result of the election . One of such cases will be where the 
nomination papers of some candidate had been improperly rejected . 
If such a candidate has the intention to challenge the result of the 
election by presenting an election petition , he could do so before the 
date of election by implçading all the candidates , who had not with 
drawn from election . But when it is provided in section 81 ( 1 ) that 
no election petition can be presented earlier than the date of election 
this would merely signify that the presentation would not be valid 
if the petition is presented before the result of the election is declared . 
The presentation will, however , be proper iſ the petition is presented 
on the date of the election , may be a few minutes befare the actual 
declaration of the result, provided that the result of election is 
formerly declared that very day . In other words , the only meaning 
which can be given to section 81 ( 1 ) is that an election petition to 
challenge the result of election can be presented within 45 days from 
the date of election and for computing the above period the date of 
election shall have to be excluded . Issue is decided against the 

respondent. " 
I find myself in agreement with the reasonings given by the Election Tribunal, 
Saharanpur, while deciding the said issue , and there is no use to reiterate the 
same. No other decision of any Tribunal or High Court was produced before me. 
The issue is decided in the negative. 
Issue No . 3 ( a ) 

The provisions of the Act relating to presentation are contained in section 81 
of the Representation of People Act. Sub - section ( 1 ) of this section has already 
been quoted and sub -section ( 2 ) may be quoted below : - - 

An election petition shall be deemed to have been presented to the Election 
Commission 
( a ) when it is delivered to the Secretary to the Commission or to such other 

Officer as may be appointed by the Election Commission in this 

behalf 
(1) by the person making the petition , or 


SEC , 8 (11)]* 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


331 


( ii) by a person authorized in writing in this behalf by the person making 

the petition , or 
(b ) when it is sent by registered post and is delivered to the Secretary to 

the Commission or the ofice so appointed ." 
The version of the petitioner is that the petitioner authorized Sri Mohan Lal 
Verma ( P . W . 3 ) in writing (vide Ex , 2 ) to present his election petition to the 
Election Commissioner and Sri Mohan Lal Verma delivered the petition to Sri Din 
Dayal, Under Secretary to Election Commissioner who was appointed by the 
Election Commission in this behalf . It is said that under the aforesaid circum 
stances , Sri Mohan Lal Verma was the proper person to present the petition . It 
was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that the alleged letter of authority 
( Ex . 2 ) is a power of attorncy under section 2 ( 21 ) of the Siamp Act and as such 
it ought to have been stamped , under Article 48 of the Stamp Act and , as it was 
not stamped , so it was a useless paper and Sri Mohan Lal Verma could not 
prescnt the petition acting under the authority of this letter . The letter (Ex . 2 ) 
may be reproduced below : 


" TO 


The Secretary , 
Election Commission of India , 

New Delhi. 
Regarding clection held on various dates between 25th February , 1957 to 14th 

March , 1957 to the House of People (Constituency No . 363 ) , double member . 

constituency , Hardoi. 
Sir, 

I was a candidate from the Hardoi constituency as detailed above in 1957. This 
election was held between 25th February , 1957 and 14th March , 1957 . Shri Chheda 
Lal, resident of Whitegunj Hardoi has been declared elected on 25th March , 1957 . 
I am flling this petition challenging the above election through Shri Mohan Lal 
Verma, M . L . A ., son of Sri Prag Dutt, resident of Ashraf Tola , Hardoi before the 
Election Commission . 

I am authorising Shri Mohan Lal Verma M . L . A , to present this election petition 
before the Election Commission oť India . Any corrections made by him will be 
binding on me, Anything done by him shall be binding upon me. This authority 
is being given in accordance with section 81 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) of the Representation of 
People Act. 

Yours faithfully , 

( Sd .) NIRANJAN SINGH Dev." 
LUCKNOW ; 


8th May , 1957. 
Witnesses:- 1. Hans Raj Anand . 

2 . Devi Dayal. 
Sub -section (21) of section 2 of the Stamp Act runs as follows: 
" "Power of attorney includes any instrument ( not chargeable, with a fee 

under the law relating to court- fees for the time being, in force ) 
empowering a specified person to act for and in the name of the 

person executing it" . 
In order that the alleged letter of authority may come within the purview of 
power of attorney , it must be ( 1 ) an instrument empowering a specified person 
( 2 ) to act for and ( 3 ) in the name of the person executing it. Unless all the 
aforesaid three ingredients are satisfied , the alleged letter of authority can not 
come within the purview of attorney . It was urged on behalf of the petitioner 
that Sri Mohan Lal Verma was not empowered to act in the name of the petitioner, 
so the said letter could not come within the purview of attorney . It was said 
on behalf of the contesting respondents that the use of the word through in the 
last sentence of the first paragraph of the letter indicates that Sri Mohan Lal Verma 
was empowered to act in the name of the petitioner , I find myself 
unable to agree with this view because the sentence indicates that 
Sri Mohan Lal Verma was to act as a carrier and not to act in the name of the 


332 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 8 , 1881 [PART II 
- - = = - - 

. = - = 
pctitioner. It is true that the phrase in the name of the person executing it 
nced not specifically find place in the document but there can be no doubt that 
it inust necessarily be inferred from its contents before it can be termed power of 
attorney . The letter , read as a whole , shows that Sri Mohan Lal Verma was 
authorised to present the petition before the Election Commission and not to act 
in the name of the petitioner . As the aforesaid third ingredient is found to be 
wanting in the present case , so the said letter cannot be said to be a power of 
attorney and as such it is not a useless paper . No particular mode of writing or 
form is prescribed , by the Act or by the Rules for authorising the person who 
is sent to deliver the petition , so it was open to the petitioner to authorise Sri Mohan 
Lal Verma by the executing of the document ( Ex . 2 ) as it is . Under the circum 
stances , I am of the opinion that the clection pctition wus presented by the proper 
person . The issue is decided in the affirmative, 


Issue No. 3 (6 ) . 

The version of the petitioner is that Sri Mohan Lal Verma delivered the 
petition to Sri Din Dayal, Under Secretary who was appointed by the Election 
Commission in this bchall, so the election petition shall be deemed to have been 
presented to the Election Commission , i. e ., the proper authority under section 81 
of the said Act. It was said on behalf of the contesting respondents that there 
is no evidence that Sri Din Dayal was appointed by the Election Commission in 
this behalf . The learned counsel for the petitioner relies on the deposition of 
Sri Din Dayul and the contents of a Hand Book for Candidates published by the 
Election Commission India , in 1957. Sri Din Dayal in his deposition , suid , I was 
also authorised by the Election Commission to receive election petitions in 
accordance with the provisions contained in the part VI of the Represcntation 
of People Act , 1951, by the notification No. 83 / 55 / 10658, dated 9th September 
1955 " . The above statement of Sri Din Dayal was not challenged by any further 
cross - examination . It was, however, according to section 81 of the said Act , 
he should have been appointed in this behalf . There appears to be no difference 
in substance in what section 81 of the said Act requires and what Sri Din Dayal 
deposed to . So long as the sense in the context is the same, the more use of a 
diferent word ( i,e ., usuing the word authorised for the word appointed is 
immaterial. The deposition of Sri Din Dayal on the point that he was appointed 
in this behalf finds corrobration in the contents of para 118 (vide pages 48 and 
49 of the aforesaid Hand Book ) . Para 118 of the Hand Book (vide pages 48 and 
49 ) runs as follows: 
" The election petition must be presented by delivery to the Secretary to the 

Election Commission or the Under Secretary to the Election Com 

mission 
( i) by yourself personally ; or 
( ii) by any other person authorised in writing by you ; or 
( iii ) by registered post. 


N . B . ( a ) The petition must be posted sufficiently in advance of the last date 
so as to cnsure the actual physical delivery of the same before such last date 
to the Secretary or the Under Secretary to the Election Commission . 


( b ) If the petition reaches the Secretary or the Under Secretary to the Com 
mission after the last date for its presentation has expired , it will be dismissed as 
time-barred , The Election Commission no longer has tho power to condone any 
delay ." 


It is not disputed that the said Hand Book has been published by the authority 
of the Election Commission and that Sri Din Dayal was Under Secretary on the 
date concerned . 


It was said on bchalf of the contesting respondents that according to the 
alleged authority , Sri Mohan Lal Verma was authorised to present the election 
petition to the Election Commission and not to Sri Din Dayal. It is further said 
that the cndorsement on the petition shows that it was presented to Sri Din Dayal 
and not to the Election Commissioner . The use of the word presented for 
delivered in the endorsement made by Sri Din Dayal while receiving the petition 
from Sri Mohan Lal Verma . does not scem to be of any material significance as 
there is no difference in substance and delivery of the petition to Sri Din Dayal 
shall be deemed to be presentation to the Election Commissioner under section 81 
of the said Act . 


Sec , 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3 . 1881 


333 


After considering the submissions of the learned counsel for the contesting 
respondents in respect of this issue , I come to the conclusion that they have no 
material force. Under the circumstances , I am of the opinion that the contention 
of the contesting respondents that the election petition was not presented to the 
propcr authority is untenable . I hold that the election petition was presented 
to the proper authority . The issue is decided accordingly . 

ORDER 
In view of the above findings on issues Nos. 1 to 3 this petition does not fail on 
preliminary issues, so it shall proceed on merits. 

(Sd.) JAGDISH MISRA , 

Mcmber Election Tribunal, Hardoi. 
The 3rd March , 1958 . 

[No. 82 /476 /57. ] 


New Delhi, the 16th January 1960 


S . O . 175 , - In pursuance of Section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (43 of 1951 ) , the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pro 
nounced on the 2nd January , 1960 by the Election Tribunal, Simla . 


BEFORE THE MEMBER OF THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL , SIMLA 

ELECTION PETITION NO . 9 OF 1959 
Shri Avinash Chander Schgal, M .A ., Managing Editor, The Wcekly Peace, 18, 
Western Court, New Delhi - - Petitioner. 


Versus 


1. Shri Shiva Nand Ramaul, President Congress Committee, Himachal 

Pradesh , Simla . 
2 . Shri Hira Singh Pal, President, P . S . P ., Simla . 
3. Shri Kameshwar Pandit , C / o . Communist Party Simla . — Respondents . 


ORDER 
The above cited petition calling in qucstion the election of Shri Shiva Nand 
Ramaul , respondent No. 1 , as a member of the Housc of the People from Mahasu 
Constituency of the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh came up for hearing 
to - day . The hearing had becn fixed for the evidence of the parties and also for 
arguments . The election Clerk cited by the petitioner is present alongwith the 
summoned record , but the petitioner has absented himsell. Respondent No . 1 is 
however , present with his counsel Shri M . L . Aukta . No intimation or request 
for adjournment has been received from the petitioner . He was awaited till the 
end of the day s work . It is alrcady 4 PM , and as the pctitioner has not turned 
up , the election petition is hereby dismissed for detault. The petitioner is further 
burdened with the costs of respondent No. 1, which is assessed at Rs. 200 . 
Announced , 


TEJ SINGH VAIDYA , 
Member, Election Tribunal, Simla. 


Kelleston , Simla - 1. 

The 2nd January, 1960 . 


[No. 82 /9 / 59. ] 
By Order , 
C . B . LAL , Under Secy . 


334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 9, 1881 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
$ . o . 176 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Kanwar Vijaya Bahadur Singh , heir - apparent of the Jagirdar 
of Naigawan Rebai, for the purpose of that entry and directs that the exemption 
shall be valid in respect of 1 gun / rifle and 1 pistol /revolver . 

[No. 16 / 1 /60 - Police IV . ] 
C . P . S . MENON , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
$ . O . 177. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Schedule to the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal ) 
Rules , 1957. published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Home Allairs No. S . R . O . 607, dated the 28th February , 1957, namely : 

In Part II of the said schedule , - 
( 1 ) against the entry 
" Central Excise Service , Class II — Superintendents, Class II ( including 

Deputy Headquarters Assistant to the Collector ) and District Opium 

Omcers , Class II " , in column 1 
(a ) after the entry " Director of Inspection " in column 3, the entry " Director 
of Revenue Intelligence " shall be inserted ; 

(b ) in columns 3 and 4 , against the item " ( il) any other member of the Service " , 
after the existing entries , the following entry shall be inserted , namely : -- 


DE 


" Deputy Director , Revenue Intelligence 


(i) to 


(iil)" ; 


( 2 ) against each of the entries " Customs Appraisers Service , Class II Appraisers" , 
Customs Preventive Service , Class II Inspectors” , 
( a ) after the entry " Director of Inspection " in column 3 , the entry 

" Director of Revenue Intelligence" shall be inserted ; 
(b ) after the existing entries in columns 3 and 4 , the following entries 

shall respectively be inserted, namely : 


" Deputy Director, Revenue Intelligence 


(i) to ( ill )" ; 


(3) against each of the following entries in column 1,-- 
" Customs Appraisers Service, Class II- - Principal Appraisers and Head 

Appraisers " , 

" Customs Preventive Service, Class II - Chief Inspectors” , 
after the entry " Directory of Inspection " in column 3 , the entry " Director of 
Revenue Intelligence" shall be inserted . 

[No, F . 7 / 24 / 59 -Ests ( A ) .] 
B . N . TANDON , Dy. Secy . 


SEC, 8 (il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


335 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 
S . O . 178. - In pursuance of clause (3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf , the President is pleased to make 
the following amendment in the Delegation of Financial powers Rules, 1958, 
namely , 

Amendment No . 31 
In the said rules, the schedule VII as amended by Amendment No. 4 issue 
vide this Ministry s Notification No. F . 12 (6 ) - E .II ( A ) / 59 , dated the 7th September , 
1959 ), the following may be substituted for the existing entry defining the powers 
of the Departments of the Central Government relating to deficiencies and depre 
ciation in the value of stores : 


- - 


Deficiencies and depreciation in 

the value of stores included in 
the stock and other accounts . 


Ministry of Food & Agricul- 

ture (Department of Food ). 


Losses on foodgrains - Rs . 

25 , 000 . 
( ü ) other cases - Rs. 10 , 000 . 
Rs. 10 ,000. 


Other Departments of the 

Central Government. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[No. 12 ( 1) -E . II ( A ) /60 .] 
R . R . SAVOOR, Dy . Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 


8 . O . 179. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 72 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ) , the President 
hereby declares 


( a ) that from and out of the Consolidated: Fund of the State of Travancore 

Cochin , the sum specified in column 3 of the Schedule annexed to 
this Notification amounting in the aggregate to the sum of fourteen 
thousand, two hundred and fifty - five rupees shall be deemed to have 
been duly authorised to be paid and applied to meet the amount spent 
for drtraying the charges in respect of the service speciſled in column 
2 of the said Schedule during the financial year ended on the 31st 
day of March , 1954 , in excess of the amount granted for that service 

and for that year ; and 
( b ) that the sum deemed to have been authorised to be paid and applied 

from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore 
Cochin under this Notification shall be deemed to have been appropriated 
for the service and purpose expressed in the said Schedule in relation 
to the financial year ended on the 31st Day of March , 1954 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Excess 


Serial No. 


Seryice and purpose 


Voted 


Charged 


Total 


I 


2 


- - - 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


1 . 


XII - District Administration 

ard Miscellaneous . 


14 , 255 


14 ,255 


[No. f . 18 (22 ) (i) - B / 59 .] 


336 


- 


- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 [ PART II 
- --- - - 

S . O . 180 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 72 of the Slatcs Reorganisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ) , the President 
hereby declares -- 
( a ) that from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore 

Cochin , the sums specified in column 3 of the Schedule unilexed to 
this Notiflcation amounting in the aggregate to the sum of one lakh , 
four thousand seven hundred and twenty - one rupecs shall be decmed 
to have been duly authorised to be paid and applied to meet the 
amounts spent for defraying the charges in respect of the services 
speciflcd in column 2 of the said Schedule during the financial year 
ended on the 31st day of March , 1955 , in excess of the amounts granted 

for those services and for that year ; and 
(b ) that the sums deemed to have been authorised to be paid and applied 

from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Travancore 
Cochin under th s Notification shall be deemed to have tecn appro 
priated for the services and purposes expressed in the said Schedule 
in relation to the financial year ended on the 31st day of March , 1955 . 

THE SCIIEDULE 


Scrial 
No. 


Service and Purpose 


Excess 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Voted 


Charged 


Total 


RA. 


Rs . 


Rs . 
22,091 


22 ,191 


3 , 993 


3 ,993 


VII - - Motor Vehicles Acts 
XII — District Administration and 

Miscellaneous 
3 . XXXVII — Capital Outlay on Industrial 

Development. 
4 . XLII — Loans and Advances bearing 
Interest . 

Total 


59,263 


59 , 263 


19, 377 


19 ,374 


22 , 99 


82 ,6707 


1 , 094 ,72 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


INo. 7 ,18 ( 22 ) (11) - B / 59 .] 
SHIV NAUBH SINGH , Jt. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Adairs ) 


-- Sec.$(ii)] 

--= 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 


S . O . 181 - Statement vf the Afturs ul llie Reserve Bank of India, 2., on the sth Januar! : 46 . 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 


Rs 


R 


. 


5 ,03 , 20 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


So . O , 00 ,000 


Capital paid up . . . . . 
Reserve Fund 
Nauonal Agricultural Credit (Long -term 

Operations ) Fund 
Naronal Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) 

Fund 


Notes . . 
Rupee Coin 
Subsidiary Curls 


12 ,93 .21, 000 

2 , 99 ,000 
3 ,69,00 ) 


30 ,00 ,00 , 000 


Bulls Purchased and Discounted : 


-=---- THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA),1881 


4 ,00 , 00 ,000 


Depuits : - 
. Governant 

( 1 ) Centro Governmen ! 

(2 ) Other Governments 
(6 ) Banks 

c ) Others 
bils Payable 
Othe: Liabilities 


64, 36 ,51, 000 
12 , 53 ,82 , 000 
682478 , 000 
122 , 43 , 16 , 000 
15 .07,69 ,000 
31 ,58 ,75 ,000 


( a ) Internat 
(b ) Extemal 
(C ) Government Treasury Bills , 
Balanses held abroad * 
* * Loans and Advances to Governoje. ts , 

Other Loans and advancest 
lavestments 
Other Assets 


43, 12, 16 , 000 
43, 35 , 36 ,000 
24754 , 85 .000 
172 , 89 , 13 ,000 
133,45,62, 000 
12 ,87 . 7 , 000 


TOTAL 


433 ,24 , 71 , 000 


TOTAL 


433,24 ,71, 000 


* Indudes Cesh & Short - term Securities . 
* * Iscludes Temporary Overdrafts to State Governmeats , 
1 The item Other Loans and Advances includes Rs . 3, 44 , 90 ,000, - advanced to scheduled banks against 118 ce lills under Section 17 ( 4) c ) of the 

Reserve Bank of Indir Act. 
Dated the 13th day of Jamary , 1960 


337 


338 


the 8th day of January 1960 . 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of Indis Act, 1934 for tbe week ened 

ISSUE DRAKTHENT 
abilities 

Re 
Ra 

Assets 


Rs. 


Rs. 


A 


12 ,93,21, 000 


Note held in the Banking 

Licourtwent . . 
Notes in circulation 

Total Notes Agued 


117, 76 ,03 ,000 


1775 ,08 ,02 ,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 

(a ) Held in India , 
(6 ) Held outside India 
Roreign Securities 


1788,01, 23,000 


563.00 ,89 , 000 


280 ,76, 92 ,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA.JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA9,1881 


129 ,81, 24 ,000 


TOTAL OF A 
B . Rupee Coin . 
Gorennent of India Rupee 

Sesume 
Lotosa! Bills of Exchange and 
other commercial peper 


1377,43,07,000 


TOTAL 


LIABILITIES 


1788 ,01,23, 000 


TOTAL - ASSETS 


1788,01, 23 ,000 


Dated the 13th day of Jenuary , 1960 . 


H . V RINGAR 

Governo , 


-SE 


(No. 3/2 )- BC160.) 
A BAKSI , Jl. Socy . 


[PARTII 


SEC, (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29, 1960 /MAGHA 8 , 1881 339 
= 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 7th January , 1960 
S . O . 182 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) oť Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922 ( 11 of 1922) the Central Board of Revenue here 
by directs that for the words " Tanjore Circle " appearing as " Item " against 
" Tiruchirapalli Range" under the sub -head " XII -Madras " in their notification 
SO 1015 No, 53 Income-tax dated the 27th April 1959 the following words shall be 
substituted namely : 
" Thanjavur Circle" . 

( No. 3 ( F No. 50 / 12 / 80 - IT .) } 


New Delhi, the 12th January , 1960 
S . O . 183 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (6 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Schedule annexed to its 
notification S . R .O . 1214 No , 44 - Income-tax , dated the 1st July 1952, namely : - - 

In the said Schedule , for the word " Tanjore" appearing in columns 1 & 2 
against item 78 ( 1 ) the following word shall be substituted - nainely : 
" Thanjavur" 

[No. 4 ( F. No. 56 / 5/ 80 -IT.) 1 
New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
8 .0 . 184 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of Section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that Shri N . H . Naqvi a Commissioner of Income- tax , shall perform all 
the functions of Commissioner of Income- tax in respect of such areas or of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes or of such 
cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income- tax Circles , Wards or 
Districts in the State of Andhra Pradesh ; 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Naqvi shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax , Andhra Pradesh with headquarters at 
Ilyderabad . 
This notification shall take effect on and from the 5th January 1960 (forenoon ) . 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . — The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner s post . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be merely clarificatory ) . 

[No, 5 ( F . No. 55 / 1 / 60 -IT .) ] 
8 . 0 . 185 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifcations on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that Shri B . M . Mitra a Commissioner of Income- tax , shall perform all 
the functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such 
persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes or of such 
cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the Income- tax Circles , Wards or 
Districts in the State of Mysore : 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


340 THE GAZE I TE OF INDIA JANUARY 28, 1960)/MAGHA 3, 1881 [Part II 
- . - - . 

- - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - 
While performing the said functions the said Shrị Mitra shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax , Mysore , with headquarters at Bangalore . 
This notification shall take effect on and from the 11st January 1960 (forenoon ) . 

Explanatory Note 
NOTE . - The amendments have become necessary due to change in the incumbent 
of Commissioner s post 

( The above note does not form a part of the notifiration but is intended to 
he merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 6 (F No, 55 / 1 / 60 -IT .) ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 13th January, 1960 
S . O . 186 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that 
( a ) in their notification No. 121. Income-tax dated the 23rd November 

1959 which appeared on pp . 3296 -3297 of Part II Section 3 (ii) of the 
Gazette of India dated the 28th November , 1959 as S . O . 2609 for the 
existing entry " Special Survey Circle IV " against " item No. 19" the 
following entry shall be substituted, namely :-- 

" Special Survey Circle VI” . 
( b ) the Board s Corrigendum No. 127 - Income-tax dated the 8th December 

1959 which appeared on page 3447 of Part II Section 3 ( 11) of the 
Gazette of India dated the 19th December 1959 as S . O . 2763 shall be 
treated as cancelled . 

[No. 2 ( F . No. 55 / 27 / 59 -IT .) ] 
D . V . JUNNARKAR , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE : GOA 

FRONTIER DIVISION , BELGAL M 

Belgaum , the 11th January 1960 
To 

Shri Ganapat Narayan Vargatekar of Sal. (Goa ) . 
S . O . 187, - Whereas a notice to show Cause issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act , 1924 , Imports and Exports (Control ) Act 1947 and Forcign Exchange 
Regulation Act , 1947 is pending in the office of the undersigned , you arc requested 
to take delivery of the said notice on any working day within thirty days from 
the date of publication of this intimation failing which the case will be decided 
exparte , 

[No. VIII (b ) 10 -453 /59. 1 
То 

Shri Dayanand Krishna Kini of Margao . (Goa .) 
S . O . 188 . Whereas a notice to Show Cause issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 , Imports and Exports (Control ) Act, 1947 and Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Act, 1947 is pending in the olce of the undersigned , you are requested 
to take delivery of the said notice on any working day within thirty days from 
the date of publication of this Intimation failing which the case will be declded 
esparte . 

[NO . VIII ( b ) 10 - 422 / 59 .) 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


SEC, 5 (li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 341 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
S . O . 189. - - Whereas it appears that the goods as mentioned in the under 
inentioned table seized in the vicinity of the Indo -Goa border, where imported 
from Go II contravention of the Rules and Notifications as mentioned against 
cuch . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - 
SI. Dilc & P1. 2 Hy wiluit. Description of goods Quantity Rulce contravened 
No. of Scizuire deiecied 


- - - - - 


- 


- -- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - 
I 


- - 

2 


- 


- 


- 


1 . 27 - 5 - 1958 . a Inspector , qu - ( 1 ) 7 O clock Blades 120 

Maslikulta stoms and Made in England, chrons . 
( North Kanuri), Central EX - ( 2 ) Rustproof spring 570 

cise flying press scuds * 555" Dozen . 
Squade , Ankola nad in Germany, 

( 3 ) Canvas Bag One 
( 1 ) Old culton Chad - Two 

du . 
15 ) Old Evercady Bit - Onu 

tery . 
16 ) Colton Bas . One 


The Govt . of India Mini 
wiry of Commerce and 
Industry, Impori (Con 
Inol) Older No. 17/55 
dt. 7 - 12 - 55 4 subse 
quen ly amended issucd 
under Secuon 3 ( a ) & 
+ ( 4 ) of che Imporis and 
Exports ( Control) ACL , 
1947and further deemed 
[ 0 have been 180cd 
under section 19 of the 
Sed Customs Avi, 1878 . 


2 . Now , therefore , any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise , and Land Customs, Goa 
Frontier Division , Belgaum why the above -mentioried goods should not be con 
fiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Custom Act , 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) 
of the Seu Custons Act , 1878 , and why a penalty should not be imposcd on him 
under Section 7 ( 1 ) ( C ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with Section 167 ( 8 ) of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 . 


3. If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the date of publication of this 11011le in the Government of India Gazette , the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case will be decided 
accordingly . 

[No. VIII ( b ) 10 - 175 /59. ] 


Belgaum , the 12th January 1960 


Т . 


( 1 ) Shri Damodar Somu Naik of Borim , Goa. 

( 2 ) Shri Namdeo Jaga Naik of Saval, Geram , Goa . 
S . O . 190 . - Whereas a notice to show causc issued to you under the Land 
Customs Act 1924 , Imports and Exports ( Control ) Art 1947 , is pending in the 
ollice of the undersigned , you are requested to take delivery of the said notice 
on any working day within thirty ( 30 ) days from the date of publication of this 
intimation failing which the case will be decided exparte . 

[No. VIII (b ) 10 -42 / 59.] 
E . R . SRIKANTIA Asstt. Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI, 

CENTRAL EXÇISI 

New Delhi, the 16th January 1960 
S . O . 191, - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I hereby empower the Central Excise Omcer specified 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAĢHA 3, 1881 


(PART II 


In the following table to exercise within their jurisdiction the powers of Collector 
specifed in Rule enumerated in column ( 2 ) of the gald table . 

TABLE 


Rank of Officer 


Central Excise Rule 


Limitation , if any 


- 


- - - 


Assistant Collectors Rule 224 (1) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


(No. C . IV (8 ) 2 / 59 . ] 

B . D . DESHMUKH , Collector, 
- - - - - | - - 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 
S . O . 192 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - clause ( 1 ) of 
clause 3 of the Cotton Control Order, 1955 , I hereby direct that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Textile Commissioner s Notification 
No. S . O . 2045, dated the 8th September, 1959, namely : 

In Schedule A , against MCU - 1 , for the existing figures under columns 12 , 13 , 
14 and 15, the figures " 165" , " 215 " , " 365 " and " 425 " respectively shall be substi 
tuted . 


( $ d ) D . S . JOSHI, 

Textile Commissioner . 


[No. 24 ( 6 ) - TEX ( A ) /89 .] 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy. 


(RUBBER CONTROL) 

New Delhi, the 16th January 1960 
S . O . 193 . In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 3 ) of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1947 ( 24 of 1947) read with sub - rule ( 4 ) of 
rule 3, of the Rubber Rules, 1955 , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri 
K . Gopalan as a member of the Rubber Board in the vacancy caused by the resig 
nation of Shri C . E . Bharathan , 

[NO , F . 15 ( 14 )./ Plant (B ) / 58.] 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
$ . O . 194 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Spirituous 
Preparations ( Inter -State Trade and Commerce ) Control Act , 1955 ( 39 of 1955 ) , 
the Central Government hereby directs that the power to make rules under 
Section 3 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the State Government of 
Madhya Pradesh subject to the condition that the rules made by the suid State 
Government shall have no effect in so far as they are repugnant to any order or 
rule mode under the said Art by the Central Government, 

[No. 32 ( 3) -Com (Genl) / 59. 1 


S . O . 195 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of section 2 of 
the Spirituous Preparations ( Inter - State Trade and Commerce ) Control Act , 1955 


Sec . 8 ( li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 343 

- - - - - 
( 39 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby specifles the State of Madhya Pradesh 
as being a State in parts of which the consumption of alcoholic liquorg is generally 
prohibited by law . 

[No. 32 (3 ) -Com (Genl) / 59 .) 
M . P . MATHUR, I.F .S. Dy. Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
$ . 0 , 196 . - In the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce 
& Industry No, S . O . 1346 / IDRA / 6 / 14 , dated tho 1st July , 1958 , in paragraph 1 , 
against the category of " persons who in the opinion of the Central Government are 
capable of representing the interests of persons employed in industrial undertakings 
in the said scheduled industries , for the entry " 14 . Mr. C . M . Stephen , C / O INTUC 
Kerala Branch , 70 Feet Road, Ernakulam " , read " 14 . Shri C , M , Stephen , Congress 
House , Qullon , Kerala State." 

[No. 4 ( 54 ) IA (II) (G ) / 58 . ] 
A . K . CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 
9 . O . 197. - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks ) Rules , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Mark , design of which together with the verbal 
description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given 
in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been specified . 

This Standard Mark , for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks) Act , 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder , 
shall come into force with effect from 1st February 1960 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Design of the Standard Mark 


No , and title of relevant 
Indian Standard 


Verbal description of the 
design of the Standard Mark 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


IS : 774 : 1957 - Specification for 
Fluging Cisterns for Water 
Closets and Urinals . 


15 : 7 74 


The monogram of the Indian 
Standards Institution , 

consisting of letters ISI, 
drawn in the exact style and 
relative proportions as in 
dicated in column ( 1 ) , the 
number designation of the 
Indlan Standard being Ins 
cribed in the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in 
the design . 


[No, MD / 17- 2. ] 


S . O . 198 — In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 67 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution herety 
notifics that the marking fee per unit for Flushing Cisterns , details of which are given in the 
Schedule here to annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect 
from 1st February , 1960 . 


34 .1 THĽ GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA S . 1881 [Part II 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

THE SCHEDUI E 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

— — — — — 

- - -- 
Scrial Product /Class of Products No, and title of relevant 

Marking Fee 
Indian Standard 

pei Unit 
- -- - - - - - - 

— — — — — 


nit 


No. 


I Flushing Cisteins, 19 : 774 -1997 Specification for Onc Cistern 25 Naye Paisen 

Flushing Cisterns for water 

Closets and Urinals . 
- - - - -- -- 

[No. MD / 11 -2 ] 
New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
S . O , 199 - In pursuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Ins 
titulion (Certification Mark ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution herchy notifies 
that he marking fce per unit for Biscuits , details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed 
llas been determics and the fee shall come into force with effect from Ist February 1960 . 


THE SCHEDULF 
- - - 

- - — - 

- — - · — — — — — — 
Si. Product/Class of No, and title of relevant Unit Marking Fer Per Unit 
No . Products 

Indian Standard 
- - — — — — — — — — - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
I . Biscuits ( excluding IS : 1011 - 1957 Specification One Ton Rs . 1°25 nP. 
Wafer biscuits ) for Biscuits ) Excluding 

Wafer Biscuits ) . 
- - — — — — 

- — — — — — — — — — — - 

[No. MD /18 -3 (1)] 
S . O 200 .- - In modification of the rate of inarking fce for Toilet Soap , notified in Serial No. 
3 of the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry ( Indian Standaids Instiju 
tion ) Notification No. S . O . 1293 dated 29 May 1959 publishea in the Gazette of India Part II - . 
Section 3 , Sub -Section ( ii) dated 6 Tunc 1959 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that 
the marking fee per unit for Toilet Soap , details of which are given in the Schodule hcreto annexed 
has been amended . The amended rate of murking fee shall come into force with immcdiatc effccr . 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


Unit 


Product/ Class 

of Product 
- - - - 


No. and title of the Relevant 

Indian Standard 
- - 

- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


(2 ) 


-- 


- - - 

(3 ) 
— 
One Ton 


- - 
Toilet Spar 


- -- — — — — — 
IS : 284 - 1951 Specification for 

Toilet Soap 


- - - - 

- - 
Marking Tec per vnit as 

Amended 
- - - - - - 

( 4 ) 
- - - - - - - - - 
so naye paise per unit for the 

firet 3 , 000 units , with a mini 
mum of Rs. 1, 000 for produc 

tion during a calendar year . 
25 naye paise per unit for the 
300 Ist unit and above. 
- - - - - - - - - 

[No, MD / 18 -2 ( 2 ) ] 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


S . O . 201 - In modification of the role of marking fec notified in the Schedule annexed to the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry ( Indian Standards Institution ) NO, S . Q . 1741 dated 31 July 
1959 . published in thin Gizette of Inaia , Part II - Section 3 Sub - 9cction ( 11) dated 8 Avgust 1959 
The Indian Standarde Institution holeby notifies thet the marking ſcener unit for Souljum Thic - 
sulphate Photographic Grade, details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexe , hay heen 
amended. The amended rate ofmarking fee shall come into force with immediate effect. 


Suc . (u ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


345 


THE SCHEDULE 


Product / Class 
of Product 


No, and Tulle of the Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Urit 


Marking Fee per Unit as 

Amended 


(3) 


Sodium Thio - 

sulphate , 
Photographic 
Grade. 


- - - - 
IS ; 246 - 1957 Sodium Thio - 
- sulphate (Revised ) 


One Ton Rs. 4 . do per unit ,with a mini 

mum of Rs. 1 , 200 . 00 for pro 
duction during a calendar 
ycar . 


[No, MD / 18 - 2(3 ). ] 


S . O . 202. — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Institution ( Certification Marks ) Rules , 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Mark , design of which together with the verbal 
description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed , has been specified . 

This Standard Mark , for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
( Certification Marks ) Act , 1952 and the rules and regulations framed thereunder , 
shall come into force with effect from 1st February 1960. 

THE SCHEDULE 


- - 


- - - - 


Design of the Standard No. and title of relevant Indian 
Mark 

Standard 


Verbal description of the design of the 

Standard Mark 


- 


3 


7 - 


— 


IS : OIN 


IS : I011 - 1997 Specification for 

Biscuits (Excluding Wafer 
Biscuits ) 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 
lastitution , consisting of letters ISI, 
drawn in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in column ( I) , 
the number designation of the Indian 
Standard being inscribed in the top 
side of the monogram as indicated 
in the design . 


[No. MD / 17-2 .] 
C . N . MODAWAL , Dy . Director (Marks) . 


- - - - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 

(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
S . O , 203. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) , S . R . O . NO. 309, 
dated the 18th January , 1958, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 (20 of 1957) , the Central 
Government gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands measuring 
2 ,729 Acres in the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that Notification 
and re- produced in the Schedule I appended hereto ; 

And whereas out of the said lands by the Notifications of the Government 
of India in the Department of Mines and Fuel, (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ) , 
S . O . 1070, dated the 8th May , 1959. S . O , No 2771, dated the 11th December , 1959, 
and S . O . No. 2772 , dated the 12th December, 1959, the Central Government made 


346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


[PART 11 


a declarations under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 of the said Act only in respect 
of the lands and rights , in or over such lands mentioned in the Schedules II, III 
and IV respectively appended hereto ; 

And whereas in respect of the remaining lands no notice under sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 7 of the said Act has been given ; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by the said sub - section ( 1) 
of section 7 , the Central Government hereby specifies further period of one year 
commencing from the 18th January , 1960 , as the period within which the Central 
Government may give notice of its intention to acquire the said remaining lands 
or any rights in or over such lands . 

SCHEDULEMI 
Plan No. HQ/LA/ 17 (showing lands notified for prospecting) 

JHIRKI - MAHLIBAND BLOCK 


$l. 


Name of Village | Thana Name of Thana 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


No. 


- - - - - - 
Acres Part (excluding 
480 working Colliery 


I Jhirki 


120 


Gomia 


Hazaribagh 


DO 


375 
II5 
514 


Do. 


2 Pelani 
3 Bandh 
4 Mahubandh 
Š Bhurkundwatenr . 
6 Borca 
Kathara 

- - - - - - 


119 
118 
II3 
I14 
IIS 
117 


Do. 
Do. 
Do 
Do. 


IIS 


429 
701 


Do 
. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Tota Area 


: 


2729 Acres 


Boundary Description : 

AB line passes along Western boundary of Village Jhirki. 
BC line passeg along Western boundary of village Palanı. 
CD line passes along Southern Bank of River Bokaro , 
DE line passes along Western boundary of Colliery Jarangdih . 
EF line passes along Southern boundary of Colliery Jarangdlh . 
FG line passes along Southern boundary of Village Jarangdih . 
GH line passes along Northern bank of River Damodar. 
HA line passes along Southern boundary of Village Jhirki. 

- - - - - - - - - - - 

SCHEDULE — II 
Plap No. LA /16 /58 (showing lands acquired ) 

BLOCK - 1 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 


Distric 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


No. 


- - 


1 Kathara 


. 


, Gomia 


117 Hazaribagh ) 


Acres 

5 .68 
Approximate 


Part 


Total Area , 


5. 68 Actes (Approximately) 


Plots to be acquired . — 416 ( Part) , 808 ( Part) , 809 (Part ). 
Boundary Description : 

AB line passes through Plot Nos, 416 , 809 and 808 . 
BC line passes through Plot No9, 808, 809 and 416 . 
CD line passes through Plot No . 416 . 


= 


- 


= 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 8 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 347 

- - H - - - - - - - --- - 
DE line passes through Plot No. 416 . 
EF line passes through Plot No. 416 . 
FG linc passes through Plot No. 416 . 

GA line passes through Plot No . 416 . 
- - - - - - — - - - 

- ---- - - - - - - - 
BLOCK - 2 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Village 


Thana 


Tiana 
No. - 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


— 


— 


— 


— 


Kathara 


Gomia. 


117 Hazar bagh 


50 .62 
Acres. 


Part. 


- 


- - 


- 


TOTAL AREA . 50 -62 (Approximately) 

Acres 


Plots to be acquired. — 808 ( Part ), 847 ( Part ), 849 ( Part ) , 870 ( Part ), 871( Part ) , 

872 , 873 ( Part), 877 ( Part ) , 878 ( Part ), 880 ( Part ) , 881 (Part ), 884 ( Part ) , 
886 ( Part ) , 8871 Part ), 888 to 894 , 895 ( Part) , 896 ( Part ) , 900 ( Part ) , 
913 ( Part ), 954 ( Part) , 956 ( Part ) , 958 ( Part ), 959 ( Part ) , 961 ( Part ) , 
980 ( Part ), 981 ( Part ) , 982 (Part) , 1029 (Part) , 1035 (Part) , 1036 (Part) , 
1048 ( Part ) . 


Boundary Description : 

KL line passes through Plot No . 808 . 
LM line passes through Plot No . 808 . 
MN line passes through Plot Nos. 808, 1048. 881. 
NO line passes through Plot Nos. 881 , 880 , 873. 
OP line passes through Plot Nos . 873 , 877, 878 , 870 . 
PQ line passes through Plot No. 870 . 
OR line passes through Plot Nos 870 , 887, 884 , 886 , 982 . 
RS line passes through Plot Nos 982, 887. 
ST line PASSES through Plot Nos. 887, 982, 
TU - line passes through Plot No. 982 
UV line passes through Plot Nos. 982, 959 , 981, 
VW linc passes through Plot No. 981. 
WX linc passes through Plot Nos. 981, 961, 980 1029, 1036 upto common 

houndary of villngr Kathara and Jarangdih . 
XY Jine passes along the common boundary of village Kathara and 

Jarangdih . 
YZ line started from the common boundary of village Kathara and 

Jarangdih and passes through Plot No. 1029. 
ZA line passes through Plot No. 1029 


I 


I 


A - B line passes through Plot Nos, 1029 , 1035 
I 1 
B - C line passes through Plot No. 1029. 
Ι Ι 
COD line passes through Plot Nos . 1929 , 981, 
I I 
D - E line passes through Plot No. 981. 
Ι Ι 
E -- F line passes through Plot Nos. 981, 280 . 
І І 

F - G line passes through Plot No. 980 . 
II 

G - H line passes through Plot Nos. 980 , 981. 
II 

II - I line passes through Plot No. 981. 
І І 
I - - J line passes through Plot Nos. 081, 959 , 958 , 956 and 982, 
- K Linc passes through Plot No. 982 . 


ΤΙ 


348 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


ІІ 


I 


I 


I 


II 


I 


I 


K - L line passes through Plot Nos. 982, 954 , 887. 
i – M line passes through Plot No. 887 . 
M --- N line passes through Plot Nos. 887, 913, 900 , 895, 896 , 870 . 
N - O line passes through Plot No. 870 
0 - P line passes through Plot Nos. 870 , 871 , 849 , 1048 . 
P - Q line passes through Plot No. 1048. 
Q - R line passes through Plot No. 1048. 
R - S line passes through Plot No. 1048 , 
S - T line passes through Plot Nos, 1048, 847 , 808 . 
I I 
T - K line passes through Plot No. 808 . 


I 


BLOCK -3 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


Kathara 


117 


Hazaribagh 


Part 


Gomia 

- 


24 . 22 Acres 
(Approximate ) 


- - 


- 


---- - 


- 


TOTAL AREA 


24 . 22 ACTOS 
(Approximately ) 


Plots to be acquired : - 


808 (Part ), 823(Part), 824 (Part), 826 ( Part ), 827 (Part), 828 ( Part ), 844 (Part) 

845(Part), 846, 847 (Part ), 849(Part), 850 (Part), 851(Part), _ 852 (Part), 
853, 854, 855(Part), 856 (Part), 863 (Part),_ 864 (Part ), 865 (Part ), 866 
(Part), 867 , 868 ( Part), 869 , 870 (Part), 871 (Part), 887 (Part), 895 (Part ), 
896 (Part), 897( Part ), 898 , 899, 900(Part), 901 (Part), 902(Part ), 913 Part), 
914 , _ 915 (Part), 926 (Part), 927 (Part), 928 (Part), 953 (Part), 
1048 (Part). 


I 


I 


I 


1 


Boundary Description : 
I I 
U - V line passes through Plot Nos, 824 , 808 , 847, 1048. 
Y -W line passes through Plot Nos. 1048 , 847, 852 . 
II 
W -Ñ line passes through Plot Nos. 852, 850, 831 , 849. 
X - Y line passes through Plot No. 849 . 
Y - Z line pusses through Plot Nos. 849, 871 , 870 , 895, 896, 897, 900, 913, 887, 953 . 
Z - A line passes through Plot Nos . 953 , 887 , 928 . 
2 2 
A - B line passes through Plot Nos . 928 , 887, 927, 926, 915 , 913, 900 , 901, 902 , 863, 864 , 865 , 866 , 

868, 851, 852 , 856 , 855 , 844 , 845, 808 , 828 , 827. 
2 2 
B - C line passes through Plot Nos. 827, 823, 826 , 808 . 
C -D line passes through Plot No.. 808 , 824. 
2 I 
D - U linc passes through Plot No. 824 . 


Sec . 8 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA $, 1881 349 

- - - - - - - - - - - = 

- = 
BLOCK -4 
- - - - - - - - - - - 
st. Village Than Thana District Area Remarks 

No. 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


I , Kathara Gomia 117 Hazaribagh 4 . 15 Acres 

(Approximate ) 
- - - — — — — 

— 

— — 
TOTAL : 

4 : 15 Acres 

(Approximately ) 
- - - - - 
Plots to be acquired : - 416 (P :Irt), 398 (Part), 407(Part ), 409 (Part ), _ 410(Part), 411(Part), 412 

(Part ), 413 (Part ), 414 (Part ), 810 (Part), 813 (Part ), 814 (Part ), 821(Part). 
Boundary Description : 
E - F line passes through Plot No. 416 . 
2 2 
F -G line passes through Plot No. 416 . 
2 2 
G - H line passes through Plot Nos. 416 , 410 , 411, 412 . 
2 2 
A -I line passes through Plot Nog. 412 , 414. 
22I-Jllne passes through Plot Nos . 414 , 810 , 813 , 814 . 
2 2 
J- K line passes through Plot Nos . 814 , 813, 810, 414, 398 ,1821. 
K -L line passes through Plot Nos. 821, 398, 413, 409 . 
2 2 
L -M line passes through Plot No . 409, 407, 416 . 
M - E line passes through Plot No. 416 . 

— — — — — — 


SCHEDULR- III 
Drawing No. Rev ./33 /59. 
( Showing lands acquired ) 

BLOCK - I 


SI. 


Village 


Thana 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


Thana 
No. 


I Bandh 
2 Kathara 


Part 


Gomia 
Gomia 


118 Hazaribagh 
117 Hazaribagh 


13 . 88 Acres 


TOTAL AREA 


13 - 88 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Bandh : - 1418 (Part ), 1419 (Part), 1420 ( Part ), 1421(Part ), 
1422 ( Part), 1424 , 1425 (Part), 1426 (Part). 

Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Kathara : 

391(Part), 392(Part ), 394 (Part), 395( Part), 396 (Part), 397 (Part), 398 (Part), 399 (Part), 400 (Part), 
401 (Part), 402 ( Part ), 403 (Part), 406 , 407 (Part), 408 , 409 ( Part ), 413 (Part ), 416 (Part), 821 (Part), 
404 (Pert ), 405( Part). 


350 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29 , 1960/MAGHA 9, 1881 [PART II 
- - = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - 
Boundary Description : 


AB line passes through plot Nos . 1421 , 1418 , 1419 in village Bandh . 
BC line passes through plot Nos . 1419, 1420 , 1421, 1422 , 1425 , 1426 in village Bandh 
and 396 , 397, 395, 394 , 392, 399 , 391 , 400 , 401, 402, 403 , 404 , 405 , 407 , 416 , 409 , in village 
Kathara . 
CD line passes through plot Nos. 409 , 413 , 398 , 821, in village Kathara and upto RiverDamodar 
DA linc passes along the Left Bank of River Damodar , 

- 
BLOCK -II 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


Village 


Thana 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


Thana 
No. 


No. 


I . 


Kathara 


Gomia 


117 Hazaribagh 


22 : 50 Acres . Part 
— 

- 
22 . 50 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


TOTAI. AREA 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Katharu - 

398 (Part ), 414 (Part ), 808 ( Part), 810 ( Part ), 813 (Pori ), 814 (Part), 815 to 820 , 821 (Pert ), 822, 
823 (Part), 824 (Part ), 825 , 826 (Part ), 827 (Part), 828 (1?urt ), 829 to 843, 844 ( Purt), 845 (Pest), 
851(Part), 852 (Part), 855 (Part), 856 (Part), 857 , 858 , 859 , 862, 864 (Part), 865 (Part), 866 (Part), 
868 ( Part) . 
Boundary Description : 
DE line passes through plot Nos , 821 , 399 414 , 810 , 813 , 811, 823 , 824 , 808 

in village Kathara . 
EF line passes through plot Nos. 803 , 829 , 823, 827 in village Kathara , 
FG line passes through plot Nos 827 , 828 , 808 , 845 , 844 , 855 , 856 , 852 , 851, 

868 , 866, 365 , 864 in village Kath ? 
GH line passes through plot No . 864 aid along the Eastern boundary of 

plot Nos . 862 and 859 , upto Left Bank of River Damodar . 
HD line passes along thc Left Bank of River Damodar , plot No. 821. 

- - - - - 
SCHEDULF- IV 
Plan No. Rev / 31 59 . 

( Showing lands acquired ) 
MAHLIBANDH BLOCK SUB BLOCK C 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
No. 


Distiict 


Arpa 


Remarks 


No . 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


Bandh 


Part 


Gomia 
Gomia 


118 
113 


Haz tribagh 
Hazaribagh 


0 . 50 Acres 
(Approximate ) 
5 . 25 Acres 


Mahlibandh 


Part 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


TOTAL ARPA 


5 . 75 Acres 
(Approximately) 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Bandh - 659( Part ), 660 (Palt), 774 (Part ); 775 (Part ), 776 

(Part ). 
Plot Nos . 10 he acquired in village Mahlihandh : - 210 ( Part), 923 ( Part ), 924 (Part) , 925 ( Part ), 
926 (Pari), 927 ( Part ), 928 (Part), 929, 930 ( Part ), 933 : Park ), 937( Part), 935( Pari ), 38 ( Part ), 
939 ( Part) , 940 (Part), 941, 942 , 913 ( Part), 9-14 ( Part), 953 (Part), 954 ( Part). 


Sec. $ ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OT INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 

- 351 
F S - S - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
Boundary Description : 
AB line passes through village Bandh Plot No. 659 în village Mahlibandh Plot 

Nos . 925 and 210 . 
BC line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot Nos. 210 , 924 , 923 , 930 , 933 , 

934 , 944 , 943 , 953 and 954 . 
CD line passes through Village Mahlibandh Plot Nos . 954 , village Bandh 

778 , 774 and 775 . 
DA line passes along the Noithern boundary of Kathara Block 1 ( M . R .) 
- - - — — — — — 

SUB - BLOCK D 


- - 


- 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


1. 


- - - - 
Mahlibandh 
Kathara , 


- 

Gomia 
. Gomia 


113 
117 


Hazaribagh 
Huzaribagh 


3 .70 Acres 
(Approximate ) 
3 .05 Acres 


Part 
Part 


- 


- 


TOTAL AREA 


6 .75 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


Plot Nos. to he acquired in village, Mighlibandh :- - 1266 ( Part), 1268 (Part), 1269 (Part ), 1270 

Parl , 1339 ( P .lft ), 1340 , 1341(Part ), 1350 ( Part ). 
Plot Nog. to be acquired in village Kathara : - I (Part), 4 ( Part ), 5 (Part ), 6 (Part ), 7 (Port), 

8 (Part), 89 (Purt ), 93( Puri ), 95 (Part), 106 ( Part), 107 , 1047 (Part ). 
Boundary Description : 

KE line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot No. 1266 . 
EF line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot No. 1266 , 1269, 1270 and 

1339. 
FG line passes through village Mahlibandh Plot Nos. 1339 1350 and 1341. 
GH line passes along the Western boundary of kathara block 1 ( A . R .) Plan 


B . 


HI line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 106 , 95, 93 , 89 and 7 . 
IJ line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos, 7, 6 , 8, 5 , 4 and 1047. 
JK line passes along the Eastern boundary of Kathara Block 1 ( M .R .) . 


SUB - BLOCK E 


$1. 


Village 


Thana 


District 


Thana 


Area 


Remarks 


No. 


1. 


Kathara 


Gomia 


117 


Hazaribagh 


3-82 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


Part 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


TOTAL AREA 3. 82 Acres 

(Approximately) 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


Plot No, to be acquired in village Kathara : - IOC (Part), 101, 102 (Part), 103 (Part), 104, 

106 (Part ), 150 (Part), 152(Part), 153(Part). 


Boundary Description : 

HK line passcs along the Western boundary of Kathara Block 1 (A .R .) Plan 


B , 


352 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 / MAGHA 3, 1881 


[Part II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


KL line passes along the Western boundary of Kathara Part - I Plan D . 
LM line passes through village Kathara Plot Nos . 152 and 153 , 
MH linc passes through village Kathara Plot Nos. 153, 100 , 102 , 103 and 106 . 

- - - 
SUB - BLOCK T 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
No, 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Kathara 


Gomja 


I17 


Hazaribagh 


Part 


22 . 90 Acres 
(Approximately) 


- - - 


— 


- — 


- - 


- 


- 


Total Arca 


22 . 90 Acres 
(Approximately) 


- 


- 


- 


Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Kathara : - - 138 (Part ), 139 to 141, 147 ( Port), 148 , 149 , 

150 ( Part), 165(Part), 458 (Part), 459 ( Part), 460 (Part), 461, 462 , 463 (Part), 
464 Part), 466 (Part ), 467(Part ), 486 (Part ), 487, 488 (Part), 489 (Part ). 496 (Pait), 
497 ( Part ), 1046 . 


Houndary Description : 

NO line passes along the Southern boundary of Kathara block 1 (A .R .) Plan 


B . 


OP line passess 
through 


OP line passes through plot No. 150 in village Kathara . 
PQ line passes through Plot No. 150 . 
QR line passes through Plot Nos. 150, 138, 147, 497, 496 , 489 , 486 and 

488 . 
RS line passes through Plot Nos. 488 , 467 , 466 , 464 , 463 and 458. 
STUV line passes through Plot Nos . 458, 459, 460, 165, and 150 . 
VN linc passes along the Eastern boundary of Kathara Part 1 ( A . R .) Plan D . 


- 


- - - 


SUB -BLOCK G 
Plan No. Rev . 132/59 . 


- - 


- - -- - -- - - - 

Remarks 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
No . 


District 


Area 


кел 


No, 


-- 


-- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


. 


- - - - 
Gomla 


Borea 


115 


Hazaribagh 


2 . 25 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


Part 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


TOTAL AREA 


2 . 25 Acres 
(Approximately ) 


Plots to be acquired in village Borea : 61( Part), 621Part), 65(Part), 68 (Part). 
Boundary Description : 

ABC line passes through Plot of village Borea . — 62, 61 and 68 . 
CD line passes through Plot No. of village Borea . - 65. 
DEF line passes along the Boundary of Block _ 2 Plan B . 
FA line passes through Plot No. in village Borea - 62. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


TT 


TIL 


353 


SEC # ) 
- - - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 3. 1881 
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

SUB - BLOCK H 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 


S ), 
No. 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


No . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


1. 


Borea 


Gomia 


115 


Hazaribagh 


3 25 Acres 
( Approximately ) 


Part 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 

TOTAL AREA 3 25 Acres 

(Approximately ) 
Plot Nos. to be acquired in village Borea : 313 (Pari), 343 to 347. 
Boundary Description : 

GH line passes along Plot No. 343 . 
HI line passes along the Boundary of Plot No 348 ( Road ). 
IJ linę passes along the boundary of block 3 Plan B , 
JG line passes through Plot No. 313 and along the boundary of Plot No. 342 
upto point G . 

[No, C2- 20 (2 ) / 58. 1 
New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
9 . 0 . 204 . --- Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ) S . O . 670 
dated the 17th March , 1939, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal Bearing 
Areas (Acquisition and Development ) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957 ) The Central Gov 
ernment gave notice of its intention to prospe t for coal in the lands in the 
locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification ; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
the whole or any part of the said lands : 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sertion ( 1 ) of 
section 7 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby gives notice of its 
intention to acquire the lands measuring 1534 10 acres described in the Schedule 
appended hereto . 
! The plans of the areas covered by this notification may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector Dhenkanal ( Orissa ) or in the offre of the Coal Controller , 

1 , Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal Develop 
ment Corporation Ltd . (Revenue Section ) " Darbhanga llouse" , Ranchi. 

Any person interested in the aforesaid land may within 30 days of the issue 
of this notification , Alle objertion to the acquisition of the whole or any part of 
the land or of any rights in or over such lands to the Coal Controller , 1 , Council 
llouse Street . Calcutta 

SCHEDULE 

BLOCK - II 
Drarving No Rev 162 / 59 

Showing lands to be acquired 
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
Village 

Thana Thana District Area Remark 

No, 
- - - - 

--- - - - - - - 
I, Hirapur Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 13 : 54 Acrcs. Full, 
Ramchandrapur Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 188 : 15 Acres. Full , 
Suҳудадприг Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanul 211 . 00 Acres. 
4 . Bedagingda . Coliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 382 43 Acres , 
Tentulai . . Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 263 . 20 Acres, Part 
Kondupelis Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 192 : 10 Acres . Full, 
7 . Jagabandhupur Colliery P . S . 

Dhenkanal 33 68 Actes. Full. 
- - - - - - - - 

- 
TOTAL AREA 1584 10 Acres 

(Approximately ) 


No . 


- - 


- 


Flul 
Part . 


auAW 


- 


- 


- 


- 


354 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28 , 1960 /MAGHA 3 . 1881 [PART 1f 

--- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
Plots to be acquired in village Hirapur : 

I to 32 , 3 / 33 , 20 / 34 , 20 /35. 
Plots to be acquired in village Ramchandrapur :- - 

1, 2 , 3 , 4 / 169 , 4 / 170 , 1171 , 4 / 172 , 4 / 177 , 4 / 174 , 4 / 175 , 4 / 176 , 4 / 177 , 4 / 178 , 4 / 179 , 4 / 180 , 4 / 1XI 
4 /182 , 4 / 183 , 4 / 184 , 4 / 185, 4 / 186 , 4 /187 , 4 / 188 , 4 / 189 , 4 / 190 , 4 / 191, 4 / 192 , 5 to 12 , 12 /193 , 13 to 120 , 
1 / 121, 4 / 122, 51/ 123, 59 / 121, 62 / 125, 88 / 126 , 88 / 127, 77 / 128 , 75 / 129 , 68/ 130 , 66 / 131, 67/ 132, 87/ 133 , 
72 / 134 , 72 / 135, 72 /136 , 72 / 137, 73 / 138 , 53 / 139, 53 /140 , 49 /141 , 49/ 142 , 91/ 143 , 107 / 144, 114 / 145 , 
114 / 146 , 116 / 147 , 18 / 148, 17 / 149 , 16 / 150, 16 / 151, 16 / 152, 19 / 153, 23/ 154 , 23/ 155 , 23 / 156 , 23 / 157, 
23/ 158 , 314159 , 33 / 160 , 35 / 16 ) , 22 / 162 , 80 / 163, 43 / 164, 76 / 165, 74 / 166 , 74 / 167, 51 / 168 , 83 / 194 , 
83 / 195, 83 / 194 / 196 , 83 / 197 . 

Plots to be acquired in village Suryamanipur : 


I , 2 , 2 /457 , 3 to 131, 142 , 133, 134 (P1, 135 to 141, 96 / 456 , 310 to 321, 251 to 257 , 374 , 450 , 
143 to 163, 165, 166 , 98 / 467, 98 / 408 , 201 to 222 , 247 , 206 / 447 , 200 /455 , 223 , 224 , 225 , 195 to 200 , 
264 to 309 , 231 to 238 , 242 to 250 , 258 to 263 , 233 /472 , 233 /473 , 401, 322 , 323 , 324 to 344 , 469 , 
345 , 241, 240, 239 , 355 , 357 , 354 , 353 , 346 , 352 , 347 , 351 , 354 , 359 , 350, 349, 356 , 358 , 360 , 361, 
364, 365, 363, 362 , 367, 368, 369, 400, 407 are covered by and including plot Nos. 234. 406 , 408 , 
409 , 417 , 419 , 188 , 229, 230 , 370 to 414 , 441, 451, 492, 443 to 446 , 417 , 418 , 421 , 416 , 422, 423, 
336 , 415 , 435 , 432 , 438 , 440 , 439 , 429 , 426 , 427 TO 434 , 425 , 186 , 420 , 419 , 454 , 187 , 188 , 184 , 
185, 183 , 182 , 173 to 181, 189 to 195 , 226 to 230 , 164 , 167 to 172 . 


Plots to be acquired in village Badasingida : - 
I (Part ), 1 / 1028 , 2 / 1629 , 281 10 284 , 293 to 300, 2 , 292 (Part), 3 to 272 , 276 ( Part), 277 to 
280 , 285 10 291, 301 CO 320 , 322 , 323 , 449, 450 , 460 tu 467, 478 , 479 . 

Plots to be acquired in village Tențulai : - - I ( Part) . 
Plots to be acquired in village Kendupali : 

1 , 2 , 3 , 3 /250 , 4 , 4 /218 , 5 to II , 210 TO 2I5, 195 to 209 , 216 , 217 , 220 to 225, 227 to 234 , 236 , 
237 , 238 , 29 , 30 , 31, 28 , 24 , 21 , 22 to 27 , 16 to 20 , 234 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 32 , 33 to 103 , 215 , 105 to 194 , 
253 , 242 , 243, 44 , 251, 240 , 249, 254 , 222 . 


Plory to be acquired in village Jagabandhupur : 
I to 70 , 72 to 76 , 78 to 81. 
1 -2 line passes along the Northern Boundary of villages Badasingida, Surya. 

manipur, Ramchandrapur and Hirapur. 
2 - 3 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of village Hirapur , 
3- 4 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of villages Mirapur and Tentulợi . 
4 -5 line passes through Plot No. 1 in village Tentuloi. 

5 -8 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Tentuloi. 
6 - 7 - 8 - 9 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Kendupali , 
9 - 10 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Kendupali and Jaga 

bandhupur . 
10 -11 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Suryamanipur , 
11- 12 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Suryamanipur, 
12 - 13 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 324 , 321 , 375 , 406 , 

448 , 451, 452 , 453 , 459 , 458 , 457, 470 , 477 , 480 , 
13 - 14 line passes along the Western Boundary of the village Badasingida. 

[No. C2 - 21 ( 1 ) / 60 .] 
S . O . 205 . — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ) S . R . O . 3235 
dated the 8th October , 1957, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal Bear 
ing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 ( 20 of 1957 ) , the Central 
Government gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal in the lands in the 
locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification ; 

And whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the Department 
of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ) S . O . 1784 dated the 5th 
August, 1959 , under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 of the said Act , notice was issued 
specifying further period of one year commencing from the 8th October , 1959, 
as the period within which the Central Government may give notice of its 
Intention to acquire the said lands or any rights in or over such lands; 


SEC, 8 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 

355 
- - 
- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

- -- - - - - - - - -- -- - 
And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
the whole or any part of said lands; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 7 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its 
Intention to acquire the lands measuring 998 . 80 acres described in the Schedule 
Appended hereto . 

The plans of the areas covered by this notification may be inspected in the 
office of the Collector , Dhenkanal (Orissa ) or in the office of the Coal Controller , 
1 , Council House Street, Calcutta or in the Office of the National Coal Develop 
ment Corporation Ltd . (Revenue Section ) . " Darbhanga House " , Ranchi. 

Any persons interested in the aforesaid land mar within 30 days of the issue 
of this notification , Ale objection to the acquisition of the whole or any part 
of the land or of any rights in or over such lands to the Coal Controller, 1 , 
Council House Street. Calcutta , 

SCHEDULE 

Drawing No . Rev /62/59 . 

( Showing lands to be acquired . 
BLOCK I 
- - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
Sl. Name of the Village Thana Thana District Area 

Remarks 
No. 

No. 

- — — 
I. Balanda . · Collicry . 4 Dhenkanal 662. 80 Acres. Part. 
2 . Dera , . . Colliery 

Dhenkanal 119 . 50 Acres. Part. 
3. Ghantapara . . Colliery . 4 Dhenkanal 216 .50 Acres Part . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Total Arca: 998 . 80 Acres, 

(Approximately ) 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - -- 
Plots to be acquired in village Bulunda : - Peru (I). 

1493 , 1494 , 1495, 1496 , 1497 to 1509 , 2520 to 2591 , 2592 2936 , 2592 , 2902 ( 2592 / 3 ), 2550 /2878 , 
2592 /2879 , 2592 / 3008 , 2926 (2592 / 1 ), 2592 / 2951 (Part ), 2683, 2684, 2685 , 2668 (Part ), 2670 (Part) , 
2601(Part) , 2671 to 2682, 2686 to 2738 , 2912 ( 2592 / 8 ) 2739. 2903( 2739 / 1 ), 2913 ( 2739 / 2 ), 2740 to 
2760 / 

1 
B800- 

6 

2761 10 2780 , 2781 ( Parl), 2783 (l art), 2784 , 2785 (Part), 2788 (Part), 2789 to 
2701 , 279.4 (Part ), 2796 (Part), 2797 to 2848 , 2850 / 2891, 2921 ( 2850 / 1 ), 2850 / 3016 , 2850 / 30159 
2922 ( 28502), 2850 ( Part ), 2592 /2952 (Part), 2760 / 2875 . 

Plot Nos. surrounding and including, 2841, 1816 , 2813 , 2822 , 2823 , 2831, 32 , 33 to 39 . 
Plot Nos . in between 2767 and 2766 and in between 2763 and 2765. 
Plot Nog . surrounding and including 2720 , 2722 , 2721, 2774, 2784, 2789 . 
Plot Nos. surrounding and including 2591, 2588 , 2587, 2585 and 2829 . 
Plots to be acquired in village Balanda - Part ( II ) . 


24, 24 / 3021, 17 , 18 tu 23, 2898 ( 24 / 1 ), 2877 , 17 , 2933, 25, 17/ 3011, 24 / 3019 , 134, 134 / 2880 
148 , 752, 753 to 762, 942 to 951, 976 , 982 to 990 , 2885, 2605/ 2861, 991 to 994 , 1459 (Part), 1450 
2887, 1460 , 141, 1464 to 1468 , 1471/ 3012, 1471, 1469, 1470 , 1471/2888, 1472 to 1492 , 1471/2889 . 

Plots to he acquired in village Dera : 

1733 / 2520 , 1734 , 1735 , 1733 (Part), 1733/ 2457, 2488 (259 /4 ), 2486 ( 1733 / 1 ), 1736 to 1741, 1747 
1749 , 1748 , 1743 , 1744, 1746 , 1745, 1747 1755 , 1750 , 56 , 57, 1769, 1768 , 80 , 82 , 1758 , 1759 
1754 , 1750 , 1751 , 1752 , 1753 , 1777 /2454 , 2424 /2476 , 259 /2466 , 2461 , 1662 , 1700 to 1770 , 1773 . 
1774 , 1783, 1765 , 1772 , 1771, 2449 , 1808 , 09 , 07, 03 1811, 1806 , 1783, 1781, 1770 , 2449 to 
2452 , 2454 20 2456 , 176 , 1766 , 1778 to 1780 , 1782 , 1783, 1785 to 1934 , 1935 (Part ), 1936 to 1944 , 
1946 to 1958, 2033, 2125 to 2132, 2134 , 2135 , 2171 to 2225 , 2160 to 2169 , 2162 /2500 , 2152 , 
2153 , 2155 , 2159, 2226 to 2310 , 143 /2495, 2311, 2312 , 2315 / 2491, 2158 /2674 , 2158 (Part ), 2313 to 
2432, 1529 (Part), 1533 (Part). 

Plots to be ucquned in village Ghautapara : 

940 /6911 (Part), 19 /6909, 7007 (19 / 1), 15 to 18 , 14 /6907 ( Part), 6890 , 2( Part), 7005 (271 ) 
(Part ), 6911/ 74 .54 (Parl), 940 / 7415 (Part ), 940 (Part ), 943/6910 , 944 to 967, 968 (Part), 979 ( Part ) 
080 , 81, 982 (Past ), 983 , 984(Part ), 994 (Part) , 956 /6828, 1005, 1070 (Part) 1071, 1072 , 1073, 1074 
( Part), 1075, 1076 ( Part ), 1069 (Part), 1068 (Part ). 


H 


356 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 / MAGHA ), 1881 PARTI 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - 
Boundary Description : 

1- 2 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Balanda , 
2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6 . line passes along the Northern Boundary of village Balanda . 
6 - 7 Jie passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No . 17 in village 

Balanda and passes through Plot No. 16 and along the northern boun 

dary of village Balanda . 
7 - 8 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 1,6 and passeg 

through Plot No. 17 in village Balanda , 
8 -9 - 10 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot Nos . 17 and 24 in village 

Balanda. 
10 - 11 linc passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos . 134 and 148 in 

village Balanda . 
11- 12 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 148 in village 

Balanda . 
12 -13 line passes along the Southern Boundary of Plot Nos. 148 and 1344 in 

village Balanca 
13- 14 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 134 in village 

Balanda. 
14-15 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No. 24 in village 

Balanda . 
15 - 16 -17 -18 linc passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 24 in village 

Balanda . 
18 -19- 20 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 78.5, 756 , 702 , 951, 

976 , 983, 982, 991 999 in village Balanda . 
21 -21 line passes Plot No. 1459 . 
21- 22 line passes through Plot No. 1459 and along the Northern Boundary of 

Plot No. 1509 in village Balanda 
22 -23 line passes through and Eastern Boundary of Plot No . 2520 
23- 24 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos , 2502, 3008 and 

Western Boundary of 2951. 
24 - 25 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No . 2051 and passes 

through 2952 , 2601, 2671 . 2670 , 2668 , 2780, 2776 , 2784 , 2789 and passes 
along the Northern Boundary of 2793. 2797 and passes through 2850 in 

village Balanda 
25 - 26 -27 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Dera . 

27 -28 line passes through the Plot Nos. 1520 , 1533, 2158 in village Dera . 
28 - 29 live passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 2158 , 2159 . 2162 , 

2500 and passes through 2155, 2152 . 2133 , 2131. 2130 . 2128. 2128 , 2125 

and along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No. 2124 in Dera village. 
29 - 30 line passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 2033, 2044 . 2043. 

1946 , 1950 , 1957 , 1951 , 1952, 1948 and passes through 1935 and Western 

Boundary of Plot Nos , 1934 , 1983 and 2486 . 
30 -31 line passes along the Western Boundary of Plot No. 1733 . 
31- 32 linc passes along , the Northern Boundary of Plot Nos. 1733 . 2457, 1738 , 
32 - 33 , linc passes along the Eastern Boundary of Dera . 

33 - 34 line passes along the Northern Boundary of village Ghantapara , 
34 - 35 - 36 linc passes along the Northern Boundary of Plot No . 961, 962 , 063, 967 

in village Ghantapara 
36 - 37 line passes through Plot Nos. 968 , 279 , 982, 984, 993 and 994 in village 

Ghantapara . 
37- 38 line passes through Plot Nos . 994, 1005 , 1063, 1069 , 1070 , 1074 , 1078 . 1075 

in village Ghantapara , 
38 - 39 - 40 line passes along the Eastern and Southern Boundary of Plot No. 043 . 
40 - 41 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Plot No . 940 in village 

Ghantapara, 
41- 42 line passes through Plot Nos . 940 , 7457, 19. 1909, 6907 and 14 in village 

Ghantapara. 
42 -43 -44 -45 line passes along the Eastern Boundary of Dera . 


80, 3 ( 61)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 357 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
45- 46 line passes along the Southern Boundary of Dera . 
48 -47-48 -49 line passes along the Western Boundary of Dera . 
49 - 50 line passes through Plot Nos , 2 and 7005 in village Ghantapara , 
50 - 51 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Ghantapara . 
51 - 52 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Balanda . 
52 -53 line passes along the Western Boundary of village Hirapur, 
53- 1 line passes along the Southern Boundary of village Balanda , 

[ No . (^2-21 (2 ) / 60.] 
B , ROY , Under Secy , 


52-53 lime passes along the Western . and 7005 1 


(Department of Minas & Fuel ) 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
9 . Q . 246 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 8 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act , 1952 ( 12 of 
1952 ) , and in modification of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel ( Department of Mines and Fuel) , No. S .O . 1892, 
dated the 26th August, 1959 , the Central Government hereby fixes , with effect 
on and from the 1st day of February , 1960 , the following rates at which the duty 
at excise referred to in the said clause shall be levied on coal and coke, namely : -- - 

Rate of exercise duty 
( i) on all cool including soit coke , bu: excluding hard coke Eighty - cight naye paise 

per ton . 
(ii) on hard coke . . . . . . . . Ninety-four naye paise 

per ton . 
[No. 05- 11 ( 54 ) /58. ) 


New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
S . O . 207. - In exercise of the powers conferrel by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines ( Conservation and Safety ) Art, 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ), read 
with rule 21 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules , 1954 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri N , B , Ghosh of Messrs. Bird & Co . Private 
Ltd . Calcutta as a member of the Advisory Committee on Stowing pice Shri 
D . Hoge who has resigned his membership for the unexpired portion of the term 
of office of Shri D . Hogg, and makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India , Department of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, 
Mines and Fuel) No . $ . O . 1743 dated the 29th July , 1950 , namely : 
In the said notification under column 1, for the entry " Shri D . Hope , 

M / s, Macneill and Barry Ltd . " , the entry " Shri N . B . Ghosh of 
Messrs. Bird & Co. Private Ltd ., Calcutta" shall be substituted . 

[No. 05 -4 (2 ) / 59.) 
New Delhi, the 16th January 1960 
8 . 0 . 208 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
15 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Act, 1952 ( 12 of 1952 ) , road with 
rule 20 of the Coal Mines (Conservation and Safety ) Rules, 1954 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri B . R , Pai, Chief of the Planning Section , 
National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., Ranchi, as a co -opted member of 
the Technical Advisory Committee (Mining ) vice Shri C . R . Sharma, and makes 
the following amendment in the Notification of the Government of India , Depart 
ment of Mines and Fuel (Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel) No. S . 0 . 180 dated 
the 14th January , 1959 , namely : 
In the said Notification , in the first column , for the entry " Shri C R . 

Sharma, Superintendent of Collieries , ( Co - ordination ) . National Coal 
Development Corporation ( P ) Ltd ., Ranchi" the entry " Shri B . R . Pal, 
Chief of the Planning Section , National Coal Development Corpora 
tion Ltd ., Ranchi," shall be substituted . 

[No. 05 - 4 ( 1 ) / 80. 1 
CHHEDI, LAL , Dy . Secy . 


358 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 [PART II 
- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
(Departmont of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
S . O . 209/ ESS .COMM / IRON AND STEEL - 4 , 5 & 7 .-- The following notifica 
lion issued by the Iron and Stcel Controller under clauses 4 , 5 & 7 of the Iron 
aud Steel ( Control ) Order , 1956 , is hereby published for general information . 

NOTIFICATION 
" In exercisc of the powers conferred on me under the Clauses 4 , 5 & 7 of 
the Iron and Steel ( Control ) Order 1956 , I , A . S . Bam , Iron and Stecl Controller , 
hereby authorise any consumer of Cast Iron Ingot Moulds to acquire Cast Iron 
ingot Moulds from any Produrers and / or Controlled Stockholders subject to the 
condition that Cast Iron Ingot Moulds thus acquired shall not be disposed of or 
cxported from any place to which the iron and Steel ( Control ) Ordler , 1956 , 
extends except with the prior permission of the Iron and Steel Controller , 

2 . The Controlled Stockholders are also authorised to dispose of Cast Iron 
Ingot Moulds to any actual consumer but the Producers shall not dispose of any 
Cast Iron Ingot Mouldis except in accordance with the conditions contained or 
Inrorported in a special or general written order of the Controller . 

A . S . BAM 
Iron and Steel Controller." 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


[No. SC ( A )- 19 ( 3) / 59 -II. ] 

J. S. BAIJAL , Under Secy , 
- - — — — — — 

- 
MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 6th January 1960 
$ . 0 . 210 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 45 of thc Fundamental Rules, 
the President hereby makes the following rules regarding the allotment of 
residential quarters in the Delhi Zoological Park . 
THE DELHI ZOOLOGICAL PARK ( ALLOTMENT OF QUARTERS ) RULES, 1960 

1. Short title and application. - ( 1 ) These Rules may be called the Delhi 
Zoological Park ( Allotment of Quarters ) Rules , 1960 . 

( 2 ) They shall apply to the residential quarters in the Delhi Zoological Park 
Premises behind Sunder Nagar , New Delhi. 

2 . Definitions. In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the 
vubject or context : 
I. " emoluments means - - 
( a ) In the case of an officer serving in a qualifying appointment on the 

date on which his emoluments are to be determined 
( 1) if he is on duty on that date , the pay admissible to him in respect 

of the qualifying appointment on which he holds a lien , or if he 
holds no lien on a qualifying appointment, the pay actually drawn 

by him ; 
( ) if he is on leave on that date , pay as aforesaid at the rate applicable 

to him immediately before he proceeded on lcave, 
(b ) In the case of an officer not serving in a qualifying appointment on 

the date on which his emoluments are to be determined , pay as 
aforesaid at the rate which will be applicable to him immediately 

on his joining a qualifying appointment. 
NOTE . - " emolument" for the purpose of these rules include personal pay, 

special pay and pension , if any , drawn by the officer and dcarness pay , 


- - - 


Suc , ).( 11 )] THE GAZÉTTE OF İNDIA : JANUARY 25, 1960 /MAGHA % , 1881 359 

- - - - - -- - - - - - 
II. " qualifyiny appointment" means an appointment the incumbent of which 
is required to reside on duty with the Delhi Zoological Park in New Delhi, 

3 . Classification of quarters . — For the purpose of allotment of quarters to 
which these rules apply quarters shall be classified as under 
( i ) Class III quarters - To be allotted to such essential service staff (Class 

III ) of the Delhi Zoological Park whose presence in the premises of 
the Zoo is deemed to be absolutely essential by the Superintendent 
of the Zoo . 


( ii ) Class IV quarters To be allotted to all subordinates in Class IV cadre 

irrespective of their pay . 


4 . Onicer eligible for allotment -- The quarters to which these rules apply 
are primarily intended for the use of Government servants in the employ of the 
Delhi Zoological Park , New Delhi, who are required to reside on duty at the 
said park . 

5 . Application for allotment. — The quarters shall be allotted as and when they 
become available for allotment on written applications made to the Superintendent, 
Delhi Zoological Park . 

6 . Allotment how made. - ( 1 ) The application in the prescribed form shall be 
submitted to the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park . 

( 2 ) If there are more than one applicant for a particular residence , preference 
shall be given to the senior most applicant. Seniority for this purpose shall be 
determined with reference to the amount of emoluments, or, where emoluments 
are equal, to the period for which these emoluments have been drawn , or where 
for the period for which the emoluments drawn is the same, to the length of 
continuous service. 

7 . Failure to accept allotment. The occupation of these residences shall except 
as otherwise provided in these rules , bei compulsory for all non - guzetted staff 
of the Delhi Zoological Park , if accommodation is available . 

- In the case of refusal of offer / allotment of a residence, an employee of the 
Delhi Zoological Park shall not be entitled to draw any house rent allowance , 

In case of shortage of residences, the allotment of any residence may at any 
time be terminated with one month s notice with a view to accommodate an officer 
whose residence within the Park may be deemed more necessary in the interest of 
Government work . 

8 . Order of allotment. Quarters for which no eligible officers can be found 
shall be allotted first to persons eligible for quarters of a lower class and secondly 
to persons eligible for quarters of a higher class. 

9. Payment of rent. - The officer to whom a residence is allotted shall be liable 
for payment of rent from the eighth day after the date of allotment or from the 
date of occupation of the quarter , whichever is earlier , 

10 . ( 1 ) Responsibilities of allottee , - The officer to whom a residence has been 
allotted shall be deemed to be in occupation thereof and shall be personally 
responsible for its rent, if he is rent -paying officer, for the period of allotment 
wheth er he occupied it or not , unless the allotment is cancelled. Rent will be 
assessed in accordance with the principles laid down in Fundamental Rules 46 - A 
and Supplementary Rules made thereunder and will be recovered monthly from 
the pay bill of the individual, 

( 2 ) The officer to whom a residence has been allotted shall be personally 
responsible for any damage, beyond fair wear and tear caused thereto or to the 
premises or services provided therein by Government during the period for which 
the residence has been and remains allotted to him . 


11 . Sharing of acoommodation . An officer shall not be considered to be in 
occupation of a residence only by reason of the fact that he shares it with an 
officer to whom it has been allotted . 

12 . Occupation during leave. An officer shall not be permitted to remain in 
occupation of a residence if he proceeds on leave, unless the Superintendent, 
Delhi Zoological Park , otherwise directs , in which case the officer will pay rent 
in accordance with whatever orders may be issued by the Government of India 


- 


- 


- 


- 


360 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29, 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 (Part 

- - --- - --- - - - - - - - - = - - - - - - - ---- - - - = = 
from time to time regarding the payment of rent for Government residences 
occupied by Government servants while on leave, irrespective of whether he 
enjoys rent free concession or not. An officer occupying a residence on leave must 
vacate it when a substitute is eppointed in his place and the said residence is 
allotted to the substitute . 

13 . Llen during leave . — The officer to whom a residence has been allotted shall 
have a lien on his residence if he proceeds on leave for a period of not more than 
120 days. He may , with the permission of the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological 
Park , store, at his own risk , free of rent, his belongings in one room which shall , 
if possible , be the smallest in the residence he was occupying prior to his departure 
on leave, on the understanding that he may, at any time. be required to remove 
his belongings at the request of the Superintendent it the residence is allotted to 
any other officer or person for the whole or any part of his leave . 

14 . Subletting - An officer to whom a residence has been allotted may publet 
It subject to the following conditions: 
( a ) The lessee shall be approved by the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological 

Park ; 
(b ) the sub - tenancy shall not be recognised by Government and the lagsor 

shall remain personally responsible for any rent payable in respect 
of the residence and for any damage caused to the premises ot wervices 

provided by Government beyond fair wear and tear ; 
( c ) the rent payable by the lessce in respect of the residence and services 

provided by Government shall not, Boxcept with the previous sanction 
of the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park , exceed the fair rent, 
which is the rent payable by the lessor plus the house rent allowance 

foregone by him divided by the accommodation occupled by the lossec , 
( d ) the allottee continues to occupy the residence allotted , 
( e ) the lessee is a Government servant, 
( 1) the allottee will be responsible for obtaining necessáry permission from 

the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park , for subletting the accom 
modation within two months from the date of occupation of the sub 

lessee ; 
( R ) failing to obtain such permission is mentioned in rule 14,( 1 ) above will 

be treated ag an unauthorised subletting and the Superintopdont: 

Delhi Zoological Park , will in such cases impose suitable penalties . 
15 . Dorth etc . of alottoe . - If the officer to whom a regidence is allotted dies, 
is removed or dismissed or retires from the service, the allotment to him of the 
residence shall be cancelled with effect from one month after the date of his 
death , removal or dismissal or retirement as the case may be , or with effect from 
any date after such event as referred to above on which the residence is actually 
vacated, whichever is earlier . 

18 . Vacating residence . The Oficer to whom the residence has been allotted 
shall before vacating the residence , give not less than 8 days notice in writing 
to the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park . The allotment of the residence 
shall be deemed to be cancelled with effect from the 9th day of the day on which 
the letter or surrender notice is received by the Superintendent, Zoological Park . 
If he does not do so he shall be responsible for payment of rent for that period 
or the number of days by which the notice given by him talle short of 8 days from 
the date of vacation , 

17 . Inventory of furafturc . - The officer to whom a residence has been allotted 
shall be required when he enters into occupation of, and when he vacates the 
residence , to sign an inventory of the furniture ( it provided in the residenco ) 
and fittings. 

18 . Maintenance . The officer to whom & residence has been allotted shall 
maintain the residence and premises in a clean condition to the satiataction of 
the New Delhi Municipal Committee (which is responsible for the final disposal 
of the rubbish ) and the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park , 

19 . Cutting of troos etc.- The officer to whom a residence has been allotted 
shall not permit trees or shrubs on the premises to be cut down or lopped , MAVO 
with the consent of the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park . 


modatioerintendentesponsib 


Sec . 9 ( 11 )] TIIE GAZET IE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 361 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - --= = - 
20 . Compliance with orders. — The officer to whom a residence has been allotted 
shall comply with any order of Government for the time being in force in respect 
of the garden attached thereto . 

21. Furnishing false information etc . — If the officer to whom a residence has 
been aflotted furnishes false iníormation , commits any breach of the rules 
regarding allotment, misconduct himself or causes annoyance to other tenants , 
or uses or permits the residence or premises to be used for any purpose which 
the Superintendent, Delhi Zoological Park , considers to be improper , the 
Superintendent may 
( a ) require him to vacate the residence and may allot it to any other officer 

or person , but the officer so required to vacate the residence shall 
continue to be personally responsible for the rent thereof, save in 
respect of any period for which it is allotted to another officer or 

pcrson ; 
(b ) declare him to be ineligible for the residence in the Park area during 

any period the Superintendent considers reasonable . 
22 . Temporary employees , — When a residence is allotted to a temporary 
employec of the Delhi Zooldgical Park , he shall be required to produce a surety 
Bond from a permanent Central Government officer . 

23 . Relaxation of rules . The President may, for exceptional reasons to be 
recorded in writing , relax all or any of the provisions in these rules in the case 
of any officer or class of officers or residences . 

[No. 35 - 75 / 57 - F .11. ] 
N . RANGANATHAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 9th January 1960 
S . O , 211 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) , Art, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Essential Oils Grading and Marking 
Rules , 1954, the same having been previously published as required by the said 
section namely 

Amendments 
In the said rules, 

1. in rule 2 , for the figures and word " III and IV " , the figures and word " III to 
VII” shall be substituted ; 

2 . in rule 3, for the words and figures " in columns 2 to 7 in schedules III and 
IV " , the words and Agures " in Schedules III to VII" shall be substituted ; 

3 . In Schedule 1 . under the heading " (b ) Colour scheme , after Item (11) and 
the entries relating thereto , the following items and entries shall be added , namely : 
" (111) Palmarosa oil. 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
Grade designation 

Colour of lettering shoging the Colour of the Lordae of lic 
grade 

lahel 
- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - -- 
Special . Red 

Red 
Grade A Green 

Grçen 

- - - - 
" ( iv ) Gingcrgragg oil. 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


Grade designation 


Colour oflettering showing 

the grade. 


Colour of the border of the Ichiel 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


Grade A , 


Red 


Red 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGIA $, 1881 


[Part It 


- - - 


- 


- 


“ (v ) Eucalyptus oil , 


- 


- 


- 


We designation 


Colourof the border of the label, 


Colour oflettering showing 

the grude 
- - - - - - 


Red 


Special . . . . Red 
Grade A . , 

Green 

Green " ; 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
4 . after Schedule IV , the following Schedules shall be added , namely: 


SSCHEDULE V " . 
Grade designations and definition of quality of Indian Palmarosa Oil 

( See rule 2 and 3 ) 
PHYSICO - CHEMICAL CHARACTERISTICS 


SEC.8(1!)] 


Grade designation 


Acid 


Specific 
gravity at 

300/ 30°C 


Optical 
rotation 


Description and 

appearance 


Refractive 
index + 

30°C * * 


Sponfication 
value 


val 


exceeding 
per cent. 


Sponfication Total Solubility 
value after alchols in 70 per cent 
acetylation ( geraniol) (by volume) 

content ethyl-alcohol 
not 
less 
than 
per cent 


IO 


Special 


0 . 874 to 
0 - 836 


( - ) 20 to 


1 . 4690 to 
I 4735 


3 


256 0234 


90Soluble in 

2 volumes . 


9 to 36 ( 3 to 
12 per cent 
of esters as 
gecanyl acetate ) 


Indian palmarosa oil is 

the yelloyish essential 
oil obtained by steam 
or water distillation of 
partially dried leaves , 
flowers and upper third 
of the stems out after 
flowering , of Cymbo 
pogon martin , Stapf . 
Var . Moria . It shali 
be free from admixture 
with any other oil or 
substance . It shall be 
clear , free from bynotes 
and sediment , sus 
pended matter and 
possess the character 
istic sweet roselike 
odour. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY29.1960/MAGHA8,1881 


88 


Soluble in 2 

volumes 


Grade A , , 0 . 874 to ( _ ) 2° to 1° 4690 to 

3 9 to 36 ( 3 to 266 to 284 
0 . 886 { + 3° I 4735 

12 per cent 
of esters as 
geranyl 

acetate , 
The specifications are based on the Indian standard for palmarosa o il( IS : 526 – 1954 ) 


“ SCHEDULE VI” @ 
Grale designation anddefinition of quality of India Ginger - grass oil (see rules 2 and 3) 


364=----- 


PHYSICO -CHEMICAL CHARACTERISTICS 


Grade designation 


Description and 

appearance 


Specific 
gravity at 
30°/ 30° C * 


Optical 
rotation 


Refractive Acid value Sponification 
index at not ex 

value 
30° C * * ceedico 

per cent. 


Sponfication 
Talue afterin 
acetyla 
tion . 


Solubility Total 

70 per alcohol 
cent (by ( geraniol) 
volume) content not 

ethyl less than per 
alcoholti cent 


10 


Grade A 


36 


0 . 896 to 
0 . 925 


( - ) 14° 
TO ( + )54° 


1 . 4740 to 
1 . 4840 


140 to 

180 


13 . 5 to 3465 
to 12 per cent 
of esters as ger 
anyl acetate ) 


Solublc 
in 2 to 3 
Volumes . 


Indian gingergrass on is 
the brownish yellow lo 
brownish red essential 
oil obtained by steam 
or water distilla ion of 
partially dried leaves, 
flowers and upper third 
of stems, out after 
flowering of Cymbo 
pogon martiri Stapf. 
Var . Sofia . It shall 
be free from admixture 
with any other oil or 
substance . It shall 
be clear , fide from sedi 
ment and suspended 
matter and possess the 
characteristic shars , but 
pleasant odour. 


---------- THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA9,1881 

--- 


- 


@ The specifications are based on the Indian standard for gingergrass oil ( IS : 526 _ 1954) 
* The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree centigrade rise in temperature is ( - ) 0 . 00073 

The correction factor for refractive index for each degree centrigrade rise in temperature is ( + ) 0 . 00040 
ff The solution of gingergrass oil in ethylalahol, 70 per ænt by volume, occasionally turns opalescent or turbid with the further addition of 

alcohol. 


- [PARTII 

--- 


SCHEDULE VII @ 
Grade designation and definitions of quality of Indian Eucalyptus oil. (See rules 2 and 3) 


SEC,3(ii)] 


Grade 


designation 


Description and appearance 


Specific 
gravity @ 
30° 30°C * 


PHYSICO - CHEMICAL CHARACTERISTICS 
Optical Refractive Solubility in 80 per cent Cineoie 
rolation index @ 30°C * * (by volume) ethyl alcohol content 

not less 
than per 

cent. 


3 


Special 


Soluble in equal volume 


70 


0. 897 to 0. 904 (--)5° to (+ ) 100 1. 4548 to 

1 . 4656 
0 . 897 to -- ) 50 to 1:4548 to 
0.904 + 3 1000 

1 . 4656 


in 


Grade A 


. 


: 


Soluble in equal volume. 


60 


TOO 


Indian eucalyptus oil is the colourless 

pale yellow essential oil obtained by 
water or steam distillation of fresh 
leaves of Eucalyptus globulus, Labill, 
or from other cineole containing species 
of Eucalyptus ( family Myrtaceae ) and 
rectified . It shallbe free from admixture 
with any other oil or substance . 
It shall be clear , free from sediment 
and suspended matter and possess the 
characteristic aromatic camphorace 
ous taste , followed by a sensation of 

cold . 
The eucalyptus oil shall satisfy thetest re 

quirements for the limits of aldehyde 
( 1 ) and phellandrene ( 2 ) 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA.JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


@ The specifications are based on the Indian standard for eucalyptus oil ( IS : 328 _ 1957 ) 
* The correction factor for specific gravity for each degree centigrade rise in temperature is ( - ) 0 . 00084 
* * The correction factor for refractive index for each degree /centigrade rise in temperature is (- ) 0 .00044 
I . The volume of semi-normal potassium hydroxide required to neutralise acids liberated from 10 ml of the eucalyptus oil treated with 4 mi 

of a 3 : 5 per cent alcoholic hydroxylamine hydrochloride and sml. of benzene, shall not exceed 2 ml. 
2 . Phellandrene shall be taken to be absent when no crystalline precipitate is formed in the petroleum layer , within 10 minutes, on mixing one 

ml. of eucalyptus oilwith 5 ml. oflight petroleum , 2 ml. of saturated sodium nitrite solution and 2 ml. of glacial acetic acid . 


[No, F24 -7 /58 -AM .) 


V . S . NIGAM , 
Under Secy . 


-365 


366 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


[PA 


(Department of Agriculture ) 
(Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi- 1, the 6th January 1960 
S .O . 212 . Under Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( 1 
1923) , the Central Government are pleased to appoint Dr. S . R . Barooah , Dir 
of Agriculture , Assam , Shillong to be a member of the Indian Central C 
Committee , Bombay upto 31st March , 1961, vice Shri L . K . Handique, 

[No. 1 - 18 /59- Con 
AJUDHIA PRASADA , Under 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 9th January 1960 
S . O . 213 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of se 
11 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Governi 
after consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby makes the following arr 
ments in the First Schedule to the said Act, namely : 
( i) in the entries relating to the University of Lucknow , after the 

"Master of Surgery -- M . S . Lucknow the following entries sha 

inserted , namely : 
"Master of Surgery (Anatomy) 

M . S . (Anatomy) Lucknow . 
Master of Surgery (Orthopaedics ) 

M . S . (Orthopaedics ) Lucknow . , 
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology ) 

M . S . ( Ophth ) Lucknow . 
Master of Surgery (Obstetrics & 

M . S . (Obst. and Gyn .) Lucknow . 
Gynaecology ) . 
Master of Surgery ( E .N . T .) 

M . S . ( E N . T . ) Lucknow . 
Doctor of Medicine (Physiology ) 

M . D . ( Phy .) Lucknow . 
Doctor of Medicine (Pharmacology ) 

M . D . ( Pharm . ) Lucknow . 
Doctor of Medicine (Pathology ) 

M . D . ( Path .) Lucknow . 
Diploma in Laryngology and Otclogy . D . L . O . Lucknow . 
Diploma in Gynaecology and 

D .G . O . Lucknow . 
Obstetrics . 
Diploma in Medical Radiology and D .M . R . E . Lucknow . 

Electrology . 
Diploma in Ophthalmic Medicine and D . O . M .S . Lucknow . 

Surgery 
Diploma in Clinical Pathology 

D . C .P . Lucknow ." 


( ii) against the University of Agra , after the entry " Bachelor of Me 

and Bachelor of Surgery - M . B . B . S . Agra " the following entries 
be inserted , namely : 


" Doctor of Medicine (Medicine ) 
Doctor of Medicine ( Pathology ) 
Doctor of Medicine ( Pharmacology ) 
Master of Surgery (Ophthalmology ) 
Master of Surgery (Surgery ) 
Master of Surgery ( Obstetrics & 

Gynaecology ) 
Doctor of Medicine ( Physiology ) 
Master of Surgery ( Anatomy) 
Diploma on Ophthalmic Medicine and 

Surgery 


M . D . (Med .) Agra . 
M .D . (Pathology ) Agra , 
MD. ( Pharmacology ) Agra . 
M . S . Ophth .) Agra . 
M . S . (Surg .) Agra . 
M . S . (Obsts , and Gyn.) Agra . 
M . D . ( Phy.) Agra . 
M . S . Anatomy) Agra . 


D .O .M . S . Agra " . 


[No. F . 5 -53 / 58 


New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 


S . O . 214 . - In exercise of the pwoers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of se 
II of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 


(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 MAGHA 3, 1881 C 


367 


consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby makes the following amend 
. in the First Schedule to the said Act, namely : 

the said Schedule . after the entry. relating to the University of Aligarh, 
ollowing entries shall be inserted , namely : 

Vikram University : 
lor of Medicine and Bachelor of M . B . B . S . ( Vikram ) . 
ery . 
r of Medicine (Pathology ) 

M . D . (Pharmacology ) Vikram . 
r of Medicine (Pathology ) . 

M . D . (Path . ) Vikram . 
r of Medicine (Physiology ) . 

M . D . (Physiology ) Vikram . 
r of Medicine (Medicine ) , 

M .D . (Medicine ) Vikram . 
r of Surgery (Ophthalmology ) . M . S . (Ophth .) Vikram . 
r of Surgery (General Surgery ) . MS. (Genl. Surgery ) Vikram . 
r of Surgery ( Anatomy ) . 

M . S . (Anatomy) Vikram . 
r of Surgery (Obstetrics and M . S . (Obst. & Gyn . ) Vikram . 
taecology ) . 
na in Tuberculosis Diseases. 

T . D . D . Vikram . 
na in Child Health . 

D . C . H . Vikram . 
na in Medical Radiology & D . M . R . E . Vikram , 
trology 

(No. F 17 -68 / 59 M . 1 . 1 

A . K . DAR , Under Secy, 
New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
. 215 .- - The . notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
a , S . O . 2266 , dated the 23rd September , 1959 published at page 2927 of the 
te of India , Part II, Section 3 - Sub - Section ( ii ) , dated the 17th October , 1959, 
eby rescinded , 

[No. F . 7 -58 / 59- D . ] 
D . J. BALARAJ, Dy. Secy . 


UMUM 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

. PORTS 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
216 . . In pursuance of sub - section 6 of the Calcutta Port Act , 1890 
al Act No. III of 1890 ) and in supersession of the Ministry of Transport 
ation No . 9 - PI (250 ) /53, dated 15th February, 1954, it is hereby notified that 
of the bodies representing commercial interests specified in column 2 of the 
below shall elect the number of Commissioners forthe Port of Calcutta 
ed against it in column 3 thereof : 


Name of body 


Number of 
Commissioners 


Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
Bengal National Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
Indian Chamber of Commerce 
Bharat Chamber of Commerce 

Terchants Chamber of Commerce 
Oriental Chamber of Commerce 
Indian National Steamship Owners Association 


. 


[No. 9 - PG (4 ) /60 . ] 
K . NARAYANAN , Dy . Secy . 


- 


368 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 [ Part If 
- - - -- -- - - - - - - - 

- - - - 

-- - -- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - - 
(Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 
LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS 

New Delhi, the 18th January 1960 
S . O . 217 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of section 2 of 
the Indian Lighthouse Act, 1927 ( 17 of 1927 ) , the Central Government hereby 
declares the lighthouse at Vengurla Point in the Bombay State to be a general light 
house for the purposes of the suid Act, with effect from the 1st February , 1960 . 

( No. 22 - M . L . ( 14 ) / 57. 1 


ORDER 


S . O . 218 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
6 of the Indian Lighthouse Art , 1927 ( 17 of 1927 ) , the Central Government hereby 
authorises the officers specified in the first column in the annexed table to enter 
upon and inspect any local lighthouse in the lighthouse district (as defined in the 
Ministry of Transport and Communications, Department of Transport, notification 
S .R .O . 2502 dated the 23rd July , 1957) specified against each in the second column 
of the said table , 


TABLE 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


— 


- 


Name of officer 


Lighthouse District 


- - 


Director of Lighthouses and Lightships, Bombay . 
Director of Lighthouses and Lightships, Madras. 
Director of Lighthouses and Lightships, Calcutta . 


Bombay, 
Madras . 
Calcutta . 


2 , This order shall remain in force for a period of one year from the date of 
Its publication . 

3 . The notification of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Depart 
ment of Transport, s . o . 1789 dated the 8th August, 1959 is hereby cancelled . 

[No. 28 - M .L . ( 71 ) /59 .] 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy . Secy . 


( Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department) 
(Office of the Director General of Posts and Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
$ .0 . 219. - In pursuance of Şub - rule (5 ) of rule 430 of the Indian Telegraphs 
rules 1951, the Central Government hereby specifies the 7th day of February 1980 
as the date on which Message Rate System will be introduced at Ghaziabad 
Telephone Exchange . 

[ No. 11 - 1 / 80- PHC.] 
B . G . DESHMUKH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Communications and Clyll Aviation ) 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
S . O . 220.- -In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 14 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 (37 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby authorises the Health Officer , Notified Area Bhu 
baneswar , being a food inspcotor in the State of Orissa, to exercise the powers of 


- - - 


- 


Sec, 8 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZE I IE OD INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGIÍA 9 , 1881 

369 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - --- 
a food inspector under sections 10 and 11 of thc said Act at the Bhubaneswar 
airport. 

[ No. 18 - VE ( 162 ) / 59 .] 
M . L . WIDHANI, Under Secy . 


- - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 


S . O . 221 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 ( 30 
of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by 
it under section 6 , section 7 , section 8 [ except clausc ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) ] and 
sertion 13 of the sald Art shall be exercisable also by the Land Acquisition 
Omçer , Jullundur, in the State of Punjab , in respect of any property situated 
within the District of Ludhiana provided that the power under the said section 8 
in so far as it relates to Axing of compensation by agreement shall not be exer 
cised except with the previous concurrence of the Central Government. 

[No. EE -11 ( 3) / 59. ] 


S . O . 222 . In pursuance of clause (b ) of section 2 of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 ( 30 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby authorises the Land Acquisition Officer , Jullundur , in the State of 
Punjab , to perform the functions of a competent authority under the said Act 
for the areas falling within the District of Ludhiana , 

(No. EE -11 ( 3 ) / 59 . ] 
S . P . SAKSENA , Dy. Secy . 


· New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 


$ . 0 . 223 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to the post of Welding Supervisor in the G . T . H . Calcutta under 
the Dte . Gencral of Supplies and Disposals, namely : 
1. Short title . — These rules may be called Welding Supervisory (Government 

Test House , Calcutta ) Recruitment Rules , 1960. 
2 Recruitment etc . — The classification , pay scale, method of recruitment 

and other matters pertaining to the post of Welding Supervisor shall 
he as shown in the relevant columns of the Schedule appended to 

these Rules . 
3 . Disqualification . — No male candidate , who has more than one wife living 

or no fomale candidate who has married a person having already a 
wite living shall be cligible for appointment to the post referred to in 
rule 2 : 


Provided that the Central Government may , in any exceptional case , and for 
reasons to be recorded in writing , exempt any person from the operation of this 
rule . 


- SCHEDULE 


1 . Name of post , . . . . Welding Supervisor. 
2 . Number of posts . . . . . 1 (One ) 
3 . Its classification and whether gozettců or Non -ministerial ( Class III ) Non - gazetted . 

non - gazeited . 
4. Scale of pay . . . . . . Rs. 100 — 5 — 125 – EB _ 6 – 185 . 
5. Whether $ clection post or not . . Selection post. 


370 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MACHA 9. 1881 [Part II 

- 

- - - 
6 . Age limit for direct recruitment , . Not exceeding 35 years in the case of direct 

recruitment. Relaxable in the case of Sch 
duled Caste / Tribes , displaced and other 
special categories of persons in accordance 
with the orders of the Govt . of India instied 

from time to time, 
7. Education and other qualifications . . Must have studied uplo the Secondary Stan 

dard . Should have a thorough knowledge 
of Electrical and Gas Welding with at least 
7 years experience of precision welding of 
engineeringmaterials in a factory or organisa 
tion of repute . Should also have working 
experience of Trilling, sawing and shaping 

machines . 
8 . Whether age and educational qualifications Age limit will not apply , but other qualifica 

prescribed for direct recruitment will also finns will apply . 
applyin case of recruitmentby promotion or 

transfer . 
9 . Period of probation . . . 2 years for direct recruits and 1 year for depart 

mental promotees . 
10 . Methods of recruitment and percentage of By promotion , if suitable candidates are ayuil 
vacancies to be filled by the variousmodes. able from amongst the Goyt , Test House 

staff ; otherwise by direct recruitment. 
II . In case of v .icancies filled by promotion , From the ranks of Electric Welder , Instrument 

transfer etc . grades /sources from which Maker , Instrument Mechanic ( Electrical) , 
promotions etc . are to be made . 

Operators and Mistries of the Guyt, Test 
Hlouse possessing the requisite qualifications 
and experience specified it item 7 . 

[No. ESII -49 ( 18 ) /59. ] 
New Delhi, the 18th January 1960 
8 . 0 . 224 . - It is hereby notified that s . o . 1652 published in the Gazette of 
India , Part II, Section 3 ( 11) dated the 25th July , 1959 , has reference to the original 
rules notifcd in this Ministry s notification S . O . 1614 published in the Gazette of 
India , Part II, Section 3 ( it) dated the 18th July , 1959. 

INO . ES II. 49 ( 2 ) / 59 . ] 
R . RAJAGOPALAN , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
3 . 0 . 226 .-. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 ( 31 of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declares that with effect from the date of publication of this notification 
the provisions of the said Act shall cease to apply to , or in relation to the class 
of property described in the Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 
Any agricultural land of kutcha house situated in the Bharatpur district of 
the State of Rajasthan . the possession ot which has been restored to any Gackii 
Muslim belonging to Bharatpur district who never migrated to Pakistan but left 
for other parts in India and subsequently returned to the said cistrict for 
permanent resettlement therein , 

[ No. 14 ( 7 ) / 57 -Prop ] 
S . PRASADA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th January 1960 
$ . 0 . 226 . — Whereas the Central - Government is of the opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire the evacuee properties , specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed , in the State of Uttar Pradesh , for a public purpose, being a purpose 
connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including pay 
ment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by gection 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1934 ), it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


SEC , 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3 , 1881 


371 


THE SCHEDULE 


-- ---- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


Si. 
No. 


Particulars of the Property Name of the locality and 

town in which the evacuee 

property situated 


Name of Evacuee 


3 . 


I. IIouse M2/214 . 


. 


2 . Flouse Number M2 /210 


DISTT. ALIGARH 
. Mohalla Krishana tola Ehsan Ilahi and Imam Ilahi, 
Aligarh . 

Sons of Hazi Kisut Ilahi. 
. Mohall. Krishana tol. Ehsan Ilahi all Invis Ilahi 
Aligarh 

sons of Hazı Kuranı Ilahi. 
. Mohalla Krishana tola Abdul Hamid . 

Aligarh . 


3 . House Number M2/ 209 


DISTT. HAMIRPUR 


I House Number 283 . . Situated at Mohalla Upr - Sri Gafoor, son of Sri Raza 

aus , Maudaha , District Mohmmamed . 

Hamirpur. 
2 . House Number 273 , . 

Do. 

Do. 

DISTT. PRATAPGARH 
I . 2012 . . . . Mohalia Bela Devi Road , Saunquc alus 

Mohalla Bela DeviRoad , Sadique alias Sadiq , son of 
Pratapgarh . 

Mohammed Yusuf. 
2 . House Number 112 , CD . Mohalla , Paltan Bazar , Mohammed Hanifand Mohammed 

Pratapgarh . 

Naim , sons of Vakil Ahmed : 


DISTT . ALLAHABAD 
1. House Number 99 (old ) . Lasker Lines, Canton - Sri Abdul Khaliq , son of late 

ment , Allahabad . 

Hayat Mohammad . 
2 . House Number 47 - ( B - Por- Leader Road , Allahabad . Sri İsrar Husain , Sri Sardar 
tion ). 

Husain , Srimati Tahira , Srimati 
Kudsia and Srimati Ayesha, 
sons and daughters of late 
S . Anwer Hussain . 


1 . Plot of land 


. 


. 


DISTT. RAMPUR 
, In Mohalla Azadullahpur, Rais Ahmad , son of Raisa , son 

Tehsil Milak Rampur. of Mehndo . 

DISTT. BANDA 
. Situated at Mohalla Mar- Sri Kallon , son of late Sri Alah 
dan Naka Banda. 

Bux . 


I . House 


. 


. 


. 


[No. 1(1217)/ 58 / Comp.III / Prop ./ Part IV .] 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 8th January 1960 
S . O . 227 . In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( 31 of 1950 ) the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri I. N . Chib , as Custodian General of Evacuee Property , with effect 
from 7th December , 1959 afternoon , 

( No . 18 (11)-Admn (Prop ) / 59. ) 
KANWAR BAHADUR, Dy. Secy. 


372 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 [ Part II 
T - I - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
S .O . 228 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954 ) . 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . W . Shiveshwarkaſ, I. C . S .. as 
Chlef Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such Conimissioner by or under the said Act, with effect from the 
15th January , 1960 , 


(No. 11 ( 1 ) / CSC / AI- 60 .] 
$ . O . 229 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section (1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . W . Shiveshwarkar , 
I . C . S ., as Chief Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under , the said Act, with effect 
from the 15th January , 1960. 

[No. 11 ( 1 ) / CSC / AI-60 / 1.] 
S . O . 230 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Administra 
tion of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( 31 of 1950 ) the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri S , W . Shiveshwarkar , I. C . S ., as Custodian General of Evacuee Pro 
perty , with effect from the 15th January, 1960 . 

[No. 11 ( 1 ) / CSC / AI- 60 / II. ) 
K . B . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
S . O . 231. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Balmokand , P . C . S ., Deputy 
Custodian of Evacuee Property , Punjab , to the post of an Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner in the State of Punjab , for the purpose of performing in addition 
to his own duties as Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Property , the functions assigned 
to an Assistant Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Aot, in respect 
of agricultural lands, shops and other immovable properties in any rural areas. 

[ No . F . 3 (43 ) Policy - II / 59. ] 
H . S . NAIR , Under Secy . 


( Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
S . O . 232 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 2 ) 
of Section 34 of the Di placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act. 

1954 (44 of 1954 ) , I , S , W . Shivesh 
( 1 ) Shri 1. N . Chib , D . C . S . C . warkar hereby delegate with effect 
( 2 ) Shri T , C . Aggarwal, D . C . S . C . from 15th January, 1960 to the mar 
( 3 ) Shri Y . L . Taneja , s . C . ginally noted officers, the following 
( 4 ) Shri M . S . Chaddah , S . powers of the Chief Settlement Com 
( 5 ) Shri T . C . Gupta , S . C . missioner : 
( 6 ) Shri C . P . Sapra , S . C . 

1 . Power to hear appeals under 
( 7 ) Shri M , L . Vijh , S . C . 

section 25 of the said Act . 
( 8 ) Shri G . B . Lalwani, S . C . 

2 . Power to hear revisions under 
( 9 ) Shri H . C . Hans, A . S . C . Section 24 of the said Act 


[No. 11 ( 1 ) /CSC / AI-80 / III.] 


S . O . 233 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 2 ) OI 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (XILOT 
1954 ) read with rule 99 of the rules framed under Section 40 of the Displace 
Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , I, S . W . 


SRC , B (U )] E GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA $, 1881 373 

- - - - - - - - 
Shiveshwarkar , hereby delegate to Sarvashri Y . L . Taneja and Mehar Singh 
Chaddah , Scttlement Commissioners with wlect from 15th January , 1960 the 
following powers oť the Chiei Settlement Commissioner : - 
1 . Power to allocate Rehabilitation Glant Applications to Settlement Offi 

cers by general or special order under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 4 

of the said Act. 
2 . Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him , under Sub - Section 

( 2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act. 
3 . Power to transfer any Rehabilitation Grant Application pending before 

a Settlement Officer to another Settlement Officer under Section 7 of 

the said Act . 
4 , Power to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement Off 

cer and pass order in the case under proviso to Sub - Section ( 3 ) of 
Section 4 of the said Act. 

[ No . 11 ( 1) /CSC / AI-60 / IV .] 
S . O . 234 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 2 ) of 
Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 ( XII of 
1954 ) , I, S . W . Shiveshwarkar hereby delegate to Sarvashri Y . L . Taneja and 
Mehar Singh Chaddah , Settlement Commissioners with effect from 15th January, 
1960, the following powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner : 
1. Power to transfer cases to Settlement Officers by gcncral or special order 

under Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 4 of the said Act. 
2 . Power to require a Settlement Officer to appoint one or more persons to 

advise him in any proceeding pending before him , under Sub 

Section ( 2 ) of Section 6 of the said Act. 
3. Power to transfer any case pending before a Settlement Omcer to an 
other Settlement Officer under Section 7 of the said Act. 

[No. 11 (1 ) / CSC / AI- 60 / V .] 

S . W . SHIVESHWARKAR , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner . 


Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner 

New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 
S . O . 235 , - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - Section ( 3 ) 
of Section 55 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , ( 31 of 1950 ) , I, S . W . 
Shiveshwarkar , hereby delegate with effect from 15th January , 1960, to all Deputy 
and Assistant Custodians Gereral of Evacuee Property all powers vested in me 
under the said Act. 

[No. 11 ( 1 ) / CSC / AI- 60 /VI. ] 

$ . W . SHIVESHWARKAR , 
Custodian General of Evacuee Property . 


Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 12th January 1960 
S . O . 236 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) I, Shri I. N . Chib , Chief Settlement Commissioner , hereby delegate to 
Shri Jagmohan Lal Tandon , P . C . S ., Assistant Settlement Commissioner , Punjab , 
the powers conferred upon me under , Section 23 , 24 and 28 of the said Act for 
the purpose of passing necessary orders under these sections in so far as they 
relate to the custody, management and disposal of property ( including agri 
cultural land ) in the State of Punjab in a rural area as defined in clause ( f ) of 
rule 2 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules, 1955 , 
which forms part of the Compensation Pool 

(No. F . 3 (43 ) Policy - II / 59 . ] 


374 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2$, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 [PART 11 

N S - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - = - - 
New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 
S . O . 237. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
27 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 ot 
1954 ) J , Shri I, N . Chib , I. A . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby authorise 
Shri F . N . Blanot, Regional Settlement Commissioner, New Delhi, to make a 
complaint in widtang 1 3 ( uit of Lilly against any person , who furnishes , in his 
application for payırlent cot compensation or in declaration under Chapter Xol 
the Displaced Persors ( Compensation aud Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 . any 
iriformation which he knows or has reason to believe to be false or which ho 
does not believe to be true. This order will take effect from the date Shri P . N . 
Bhanot took over charge as henna ! S : 11 ] ement Commissioner , New Delhi, 

[No. F. 10 (28) Comp.II/ 56 -Policy -l.] 


S . O . 238, - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) I, Shri I. N . Chib , L. A . S ., Chief Settlement Commissioner , hereby 
delegate my powers for the recovery of any amount paid to a displaced persons 
which was not payable to him or which was in excess of any amount payable 
to him , as arrears of land revenue as required under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 24 
of the said act , to Shri P . N . Bhanot, Regional Settlement Commissioner , New 
Delhi from the date he took over charge as Regional Settlement Commissioner , 
New Delhi, 


[No, F . 4 ( 3 )Comp.II/ 57- Pulicy -1.7 

I. N . CHIB , Chief Settlement Commissioner. 
— - - 

- - - -- - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 
S . O . 239. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
thc Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Messi s , R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia and their workman . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DELHI 

PRESENT 
Shri E . Krishna Murti, 
Central Govt, Industrial Tribunal. 

17th December, 1959. 
I.D , No . 443 OF 1959 

BETWEEN 
The Employers in relation to M / s. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 

AND 
Their workman . 
Shri Yashwant Sinha Nahar for the management. 
Shri Parma Nand Tripathi for the workman . 


AWARD 
By G . O . No. LRII - 61 ( 10 ) /58, dated the 6th February , 1959, the industrial dis 
pute , between the employers in relation to M / s R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
and their workman , has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under 
Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


2 . The term of reference is as follows: 
Whether the termination of service of Shri Devi Singh , Mechanical 

Enginecr , and the withholding of his wagcs for the period from 1st 
March to 2nd April 1958, by the management of M / s . R . B . Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia are justified , and , if not, to what relief he is 
entitled ? 


2 


- 


SEC.-8 (ii)] THE GAZÉ I TE OF INDIA . JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1891 375 
- - - - - 

3 . It is alleged in the statement of claim , that Shri Devi Singh was appointed 
by the proprietor of Messrs . Rajasthan Mineral & Co ., as Mechanical Engineer , in 
their nnes from 1st March 1936 , that his appointment was confirmed by letter 
dated 21st May 1966 , that, according to the practice prevailing in the Company 
oi the opposite party , of which Messrs, R . B . Scth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia happened 
I be the sole proprietor, ihr impinget s are being transferred from one concern 
to another, without any change, that Messrs. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
are also the sole proprietors of the following companies , namely :- - 

( 1 ) M / s. Hind Mica Co. Ltd ., Bhilwara , 
( 2 ) M / s. Rajasthan Mineral & Co ., Bhilward , and 

( 3 ) M /s . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., Jaipur, 
thut the opposite party are running their business under different names to evade 
income -tax , that all these concerns have their Head Office at Calcutta , that the 
opposito party liad paid wages to Shi Devi Singh , that the opposite party was 
not well disposed towards him , on account of the demands made by him , and on 
account of his membership of the trade union , that Shri Devi Singh was not 
pernitiid to join work at Moti Mine at Madhorajpura on 2nd April 1958 by the 
Circle Superlinor under instructions from the Jaipur Ollice, that no notice was 
Seved upon him , that no charge -sheet was given , that no enquiry was held , that 
he was summarily dismissed , that he was given a clearance certificate on 2nd 
April 1958 by the Store Kecper of the Company , that the termination of service 
of Shi Devi Singh is unlawful, that tarned wages from 1st March 1958 to 2nd 
April 1954, wages towards privilcge leave of two months, onc month s notice pay , 
and gratuity benefit have all been withheld , that an amount equivalent to Rs. 7 . 25 
has also not been paid , that Shri Devi Singh should be re - instated in service, 
logcther witli buck wages , and that the several amounts due to him should also 
be directed to bc paid . 


4 . The contention on behall of the opposite party is , that it is not true, that 
thcrc was relationship of employer and employes betwecn the opposite party 
and Shri Devi Singh , that he was never employed by the opposite party , that he 
was nou dimnissed by the opposite paity , that the opposite party is a sole pro 
prietor concern , ol whicl, RB. Seih Ram Prasad Hajgarhia is the sole proprietor , 
that it is not trut , that M6 ,15, R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia are the owners 
of th other companies, as mentioned in the claim statement, that the allegations 
about the uansicr of employees froin one concern to the other are also denied , 
that tirere is 110 industrial dispute betwcen Shri Devi Singh , and the opposite 
party , that the reference is without jurisdiction , that the transfer of the dispute 
from Bumhay to the Industrial Tribunal of Delhi is also without jurisdiction , and 
that the workman is not entitled to relief . 
5 . The issues , that arise for determination , are 

( 1 ) Whether the reference is valid ? 
( 2 ) Whether the reference to this Tribunal is without jurisdiction ? 
( 3 ) Was the workman an employce of Messrs. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad 

Rajgarhia , the opposite party ? 
( 1 ) Was his service terminated , as contended by the workman , by the 

opposite party ? 
( 5 ) If his service was terminated , is such termination valid ? Is it wrong 

ful, as alleged ? 
( 6 ) To what relief, if any, is he entitled ? 


Issue Nos. 3 and 4 

6 Al the outset it ought to lie sun, that the reference is of a dispute , between 
the employees in relation to M / s. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , and their 
workian , in respect of the matter specilied in the Schedule . The question 
leferied is , whether the termination of service of Siri Devi Singh , Mechanical 
Enginter , iud withholding of wages from 1st March 1 158 to 2nd April 1958 by 
the management of Mcsors R . B Seth Rain Piasac Ragarhi are justified . The 
case of the workman , Shri Devi Sinph , and the Union is , that he was an employee 
of Messi s RB, Scih Ram Prasad Rajgaria , the opposite party , that his services 
were terminuted by the management of the said concern , and that, therefore , 
he is entitled to relief against the said concern , 


376 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 19604MAGHA 3, 1881 Part II 

— : - - - - 
7 . According to the claim statement, Shri Devi Singh was appointed by 
the proprietor of Messrs . Rajasthan Mineral and Co ., Bhilwara , as Mechanical 
Engineer , from 1st March 1956 . Subsequently , his services were confirmed by 
letter dated 21st May 1956 . We have Ext. W / I, which is udmitted by the other 
side , and this shows, that Shri Devi Singh was appointed as Mechanical Engineer 
by the Rajasthan Mineral & Co., on a salary of Rs. 225 per month , with Rs. 15 
As dearness allowance , from 1st March 1956. 


8 . In paragraph 2 of the claim statement it is alleged , that, according to the 
pructive prcvuiling in the Company of the opposite party , of which Messrs . R . B . 
Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , Bhilwara, happened to be the sole proprietor, the 
employees , officers, workmen , machinery etc . were all, transferred from one 
concern to another. The said Messrs . R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia of 
Bhilwara , the opposite party , are the sole proprietors of the said firm of R , B . Seth 
Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , and also of the following companies namely , ( 1 ) Messrs . 
Hind Mica Co . Ltd ., ( 2 ) Messrs . Rajasthan Mineral & Co . Bhilwara , and ( 3 ) 
Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., Jaipur. It is next alleged , that the opposite 
party is running the business in different names to avoid payment of income- tax . 
Shri Devi Singh however incurred the displeasure of the opposito party , and , 
therefore, he was sent out of service on 2nd April 1958 . He was prevented from 
joining his work at Moti Minc at Madhorajpura, in Jaipur District , by the Circle 
Supervisor of the opposite purty , under instructions from the Jaipur Omce. It 
is alleged , that the termination of service of Shri Devi Singh by the opposite 
party is without any enquiry , and is arbitrary, and that it is unjustified , 

The workman claims: 


He wasich, by the face. It 


( i) Eurned wages, from 1st March 1958 to 2nd April 1958 @ Rs. 265 per 

month - Rs. 265 . 00 . 
(11 ) Towards privilege leave of two months @ Rs. 265 per month - Rs. 530 .00 . 
( iii) One month s notice pay as compensation - Rs. 265 .00 . 
(iv ) Gratuity benefit at the rate of 15 days pay for two years of service , 

equal to one month s wageRs. 265 .00 . 
( v ) Towards outstanding vouchers — Rs. 7.25 . 


9 . On behalf of the opposite party , the allegations made in the claim statenient 
are denied . In paragraph 5 it is alleged , that the opposite party is in no way 
connected with the Rajasthan Mineral & Co., Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., 
that the management of the suid concerns are separate , and that they are not 
connected in any manner . It is next alleged , that each individual concern 
maintains separate accounts , and that they are separately taxcd , and that they 
are separate legal entities . It is the case of the opposite party , thut Shri Devi 
Singh was never employed by them und was not their employee . In paragraph , 
8 it is alleged , that the opposite party is the sole proprictory concern , of which 
R , B . Soth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is the sole proprietor. The contention on behalf 
of the opposite party is, that Shri Devi Singh was never an ernployee of Messrs . 
R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , that the said concern never employed him , nor 
dismissed him , that there is no dispute between the said firm and this workman , 
and that he is not entitled to relief against the opposite party . 


10 . It thus fails to be determined , whether Shri Devi Singh was ever at any 
time an employee of Messrs. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia and was dis 
charged by them . There is no doubt, that such a concern exists . In the written 
statement it is admitted , that it is the sole proprietory concern of R . B . Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia . However, the question is, whether Shri Devi Singh was a 
workman of that concern , and whether he was employed or discharged by the 
said concern . 

11. On behalf of the opposite party, we have two documents , namely , Exts . 
M / 1 and 2 . Ext. M / 1 is a copy of a decree in a partition suit No. 2480 of 1956 , in 
the High Court of Calcutta , between Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia on the one hand , 
and his three sons, Şarvashri Parshotam Lal Rajgarhia , Mahabir Prasad Rajgarhia , 
and Vaudev Lal Rajgarhia , and also Shrimati Ratni Devi Rajgarhia . 


12 . The defendants are all described as residing at 13 , Harrington Road , 
Calcutta . The decree shows, that all the suit immovable properties were those 
in Schedule A . The properties described in Schedule B , were allotted to the 
plaintiff , the father , and those in Schedules C , D , and E to the three sons 
respectively . Shrimati Ratni Devi gave up her right and no share was allotted 


Sec. $ (tt)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 29, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


377 


to her. The decree is dated 16th March 1956 . All the immovable properties , 
owned by the family and as between the father and sons, were divided , according 
to the partition decrec . Item No . 22 of Schedule A relates to certain Mica Mines , 
beds, veins, etc , situate in 65 Survey Tollas , lying in Mahal Katsakra Asli Mai 
Dakhali. 

13 . The plaintiff and the defendants 1 – 3 were each assigned 1 / 4th share in 
the said Item No. 22. The decree does establish the contention on behalf of the 
opposite purty , that the father and the sons are divided and that they have also 
been living separately . This is also the cvidence of Shri Tapeswar Singh 
MW 1 who is the Director of the Rajputana Corporation Ltd . We have also Ext. 
M / 2 , which is the certificate of registration Messrs . Rajasthan Mineral & Co., 
daled 5th March 1956 , issued by the Registrar of Firms, West Bengal. It shows, 
that the three partners thercin arc Şarvashri Parshotam Lal, Mahubir Prasad , and 
Vasdev , Lal, their permanent address being 13 , Ilarrington Street, Calcutta , on the 
cvidence it is established that the father and sons are divided from each other , 
and thut Messrs . Rajasthan Mineral & Co . is owncd by the threc partners , the 
sons, and that the father is not a partncr the- rcin , The contention on behalf of 
the workman , that R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is the proprietor of Messrs . 
Rajasthan Mineral & Co ., as alleged in the claim statement, is belied by Ext, M / 2 . 

14 . The evidence of Shri Tapeswar Singh is that Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia 
has shares in all the four concerns, namely , ( i ) Messrs . Rajputana Corporation 
Lid ., ( ii) Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co ., ( iii) Messrs . Hind Mica Co. Ltd ., and 
(iv ) Messrs . R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia . The Ilead Office of all the four 
conccris is in Calcutta . But he cannot say under whose signatures orders ure 
received from Calcutta for management of all the four conccrns. If we have 
regard to Ext. M / 2 , this shows, that Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia is not a partner 
in Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co . It is in the evidence of the workman , that 
there is a common store for all the four concerns at Bhilwara , and that stocks 
were being transferred from Jaipur to Bhilwaya , and vice versa . The evidence 
of Shri Tapeswar Singh is , that the same compressors were being used by each 
of the four companies now and then . He deposes that there are separate office 
for each of the four concerns. They are all situated in the same building . They 
are all scparately maintaining theil Accounts Except Messrs. Rajputana Corpo 
ration Ltd ., all the other three concerns are in Bhilwara. Originally he was 
the agent of Find Mica Co. Ltd . He was not getting any monthly pay . He was 
appointed by Seth Ram Parsbad Rajgarhia and his sons as Agent, and the four 
were paying him commission . What is important to note is , that the four Com 
panies, namely , ( i ) Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd , Jaipur , ( ii ) Messr s . 
Rajasthan Mincral & Co , Bhilwara , (ii) Hind Mica Co . Ltd ., Bhilwara, and ( iv ) 
Messrs. R B . Seth Ram Parshad Rajgarhia , are all different independent concerns. 
The evidence on record is not sufficient and satisfactory to prove , that Messrs . 
R . B . Seth Ramparshad Rajgarhia , the opposite party in this reference , is the 
sole proprietor of all the four concerns, as alleged in the claim statement. It 
may be ut the best, that Seth Ram Parshud Rajgarhia and his three sons have 
shares in some of these concerns, but that dons not prove, that the opposite party 
in this reference is the sole proprietor of all the four concerns, as alleged in the 
claim statement. 

15 . A consideration of the entire evidence shows, that Shri Devi Singh was an 
employee not of the opposite party , Messrs. R . B Seth Ram Prasad Raigarhia , 
but only of the Rajputana Corporation Ltd , at the time he was discharged from 
service . According to the document, Ext. W / l , already referred to , he was 
appointed by the Rajasthan Mineral & Co . in May , 1956 , According to the 
cvidence of Shri Devi Singh , Ext. W / 1 is signed by Modi Sahib , the Mining 
Engineer , though he adds, that the original appointment letter was signed by 
Shri Vasudev Lal, who admittedly was one of the partners of the said Company , 
according to Ext. M / 2 . In cross -examination , the workman dcposes , that he 
was transferred to Rajputana Corporation Lid . on 6th May 1957. He came back 
on 21st May 1957 to Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co. After 9th July 1957 he 
was working in Rajputana Corporation Lid . From then onwards till he was 
sent away he was working in the Rajputana Corporation Ltd . He explains, that 
no order of transfer was given to him , but hc was told to work in that Company 
orally . He was told so by Shri Prabhu Dayal, who is said to be the General 
Manager of the three concerns, ( i) Messis. Find Mica Co Ltd ., ( ii ) Messrs . 
Rajasthan Mineral & Co., and (ii) R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia & Co . Till 
he was sent to Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., his pay was being paid by 
Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co. After he went to Messrs . Rajputana Corpora 
tion Ltd,, his pay was being paid by that Company , and he passed vouchers in 
favour of Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd . But till 9th July 1957 he was 
paid his pay at Bhilwara by Messrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co. He adds, that 


378 THL GAULTIE OF INDÍT : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 PARI 11 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - 

- - - 
ho worked in some Mines, in Bhilward on 9, 10, 16 , and 18th August, 1957, even 
after his transfer 10 Messis . Rajputana Corporation Ltd . Şhri Lal is the Manager 
of Rajputana Corporation Lid The Director of Messrs. Hind Mica Co, Ltd is 
Shri Dhandania . ACMding to the evidence of Shri Tapesliwai Singli . he is a 
Director of 112 Rajputana Corporation from the laut 5 or 6 ye ls . He says , 
that Shii Devi Singh was an employee of Messrs Rajasthan Mineral & Co . 
homicily . The ll he went away to Jurpur. Messis . Rajasthan Mincral & Co 
Sen kim to Jaipur, but he cannot say in what month and year he was sent to 
Juipu . Shri Devi Singh was scivilig in Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd . It 
is seen from the evidence that Shri Devi Singh was originally appointed by 
thc Rajasthani Mineral & Co , and that in July 1957 he was transferred to Messrs . 
Rajputana Corporation Ltd What is important to note , is that , on his own 
admission , he was working in Messrs. Rajputana Corporation Ltd from July , 1957, 
till he was discharged from scrvice. It is perfectly clear from the cvidence, that 
he was an employce only of Messi s . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., when he was 
Sent away on 2nd April 1958. I fail to see how it can be held , that he was an 
employee of Messrs . R B Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , the opposite party in this 
case, or how he can claim any relief against the opposite party . It is in the 
( vidence of Shri Devi Singh himself, that Messrs Rajputana Corporation Ltd . 
is a public limited company Shri Vasudev Lal is a Director of that Company 
hut he does not know , whcther Shui Ram Prasad Ji is a Director of Messrs. 
R : jputana Corporation Lid . It is established on the evidence beyond any 
doubt, that Messrs. R . B . Seih Ram Prasad Rajgarhia are not the sole proprietor 
of Messrs. Rajputna Corporation Ltd . It may be that this concern has shares in 
the Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., but it is important to note, that it is a public 
limited coinpany. There is no question of sole proprietorship therein . It is in 
the cvidence of Shri Devi Singh , that, after he went to Messrs Rajputana Corpo 
ration Ltd ., his pay was being paid by the said Company , and he passed youchery 
in favour of Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd , Eycn in the claim statement 
it is alleged , that the Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., was in Jaipur. Shri Lal was 
the Manager of the Corporation . When Shi1 Devi Singh was an employee of 
the Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., which is a puhlic limited company , from 9th 
July 1957 till his discharge on 2nd April 1958 , I am unable to hold , that he is 
entitled to claim any reljef against the opposite party in this reference, Messrs. 
R . B Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia . The workman was not an employee of the 
opposite party herein , and was not discharged by the said opposite party . 

16 . However, it has been alleged , that work was being done by Shri Devi Singh 
in ull the tour concerns. Ile states, that he has been working in all the Mines 
Iccording to directions. This cvidence is sought to be supported by thut of 
WW2, who is himself the owner of a mine since 21st February 1958. According 
to the evidence of Shri Hira Lal, WW2, he was working for R . B . Seth Ram 
Prasad Rajgarhia Co . as Mines Manager . He was working as Mines Manager 
of all the threr concerns. He was being sent to Jaipur now and again . This 
service was in all the three concerns. In cross - examination he admits , that Seth 
Ji did not give him any vouchers or letters under his signatuies Ile explains, 
that he was Arst appointed by the Seth Ji, Seth Rain lauad Rajgurhi1, in 1955 , and 
that he might have worked with him for 2 or 3 years . The was being made to 
work in all the Miries . He had a jeep at his disposal It may be , that this witness 
was appointed to work in all the Mines, but his evidence cannot be taken as 
satisfactorily cstablishing , tliat the opposite party herein is the sole proprietor 
uf all the threc other concerns, rcferred to in the evidence Ilis evidence , that 
Seth Ji is known as the proprietor of all the concerns, is not of any value, and 
Is a mere assertion of belief, 


17 . Nextly , reliance has been placed on Exts W / 2 - 5 . Ext. W / 2 purports to 
be a letter signed by Shri Prabhu Dayal. This was signed apparently on behalf 
of the Rajasthan Mineral & Co Exts . W / 3 and 4 are letters in February 1958 in 
relation to tertain stores . According to the evidence of Shri Devi Singh , Exts . 
W / 3 and 4 relates to receipt of stores, Ext. W / 3 is signed by Shri Ram Richhpal, 
the Store -Kooper , and Ext. W / 4 by Shri Gajanand , who was working in the 
orlice . There is no doubt about the genuineness of these documents , but it is 
important to note , that these relate to Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd . It 
is in the evidence of Shri Devi Singh , that Shri Ram Richhpal is a Store Kecper 
in Messrs. Rujputana Corporation Ltd ., which has its oſllce in Madhorajpura . 
Ext. W / 5 is a copy of an original, which is said to be in the office of the Rajputana 
Corporation Ltd . The genuineness of Ext. W / 5 is liot admitted . Even Assuming 
it is true, it, proves, that it is a clearance certificate relating to Messrs. Rajputana 
Coi pollion Ltd . These documents , which have been relied upon on behulf 
of the workman , do prove at best, that he was an employee of the Rajputana 
Corporation Ltd . It is the case of the opposite party , that Shri Devi Singh 


sfc . 3 (ii)] THÉ GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA %, 1881 399 

- - -- - - - - - - - - -- 
was an employee of the Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., which is a public limited 
company , and not of the opposite party , Messrs . R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia . 
The case of the workman , that he was appointed by the opposite party , Messrs . 
R , B . Seth Ram Prasaa Kajgarhia and that his services were terminated by the 
said opposite party , has not been established on the evidence in this case . On the 
contrary , the evidence on record proves, that he was originally an employee oi 
Wiessrs. Rajasthan Mineral & Co ., and later of Messrs . Rajputana Corporation Ltd ., 
Jaipur. His services were terminalad by the Rajputana Corporation Ltd . On 
the evidence of the workman himself , the said company is ą, public limited com 
pany . There was no relationship of employer and employee between Messrs . 
R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia on the one hand , and Shri Devi Singh , workman 
in the other . The workman has mis - conceived his remedy in seeking relief 
againsi Messrs. R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia . I find on these issues, that 
the workman was not an employee of Messrs . R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , 
the opposite party , and that the said opposite party did not terminate his service. . 


Issue No. 5 . 

18 . With reference to the question of termination of service , there is no evi 
dence in this proceeding to prove , that he was served with any charge - sheet, or 
that an explanation was called for or that any enquiry was held . On the material 
on record in this proceeding , it is obvious, that the workman s services were 
terminated . cn 2nd April, 1958 , arbitrarily and summarily , and in violation of the 
principle of natural justice . Such termination is wrongfuí, and cannot 
be up -held . 


19 . However , this does not help the workman , because he has sought relief 
against a wrong party , when he was an employee of the Rajputana Corporation 
Ltd ., and when his services were terminated by that Corporation , a public limited 
company . 


Issues Nos. 1 and 2 . 

20 . These issues raise the question about the validity of the reference. Firstly , 
it is contended on behalf of the opposite party , that there is no industrial dispute 
between the workman and the opposite party . This contention must be up - held . 
I have found above, that Shri Devi Singh was not an employee of Messrs . R . B . 
Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia , the opposite party herein , and the said concern did 
not appoint him , or dismiss him , and there was no relationship of employer and 
employee between them at any time. in such circumstances , there is no industrial 
dispute between the workman and the opposite party . 


21 . The second objection is , that the reference to this Tribunal is without 
jurisdiction . Originally the reference was made to the Second Industrial Tribunal, 
but, because the services of Shri Vyas were unavailable , the reference was 
made to this Tribunal. This is quite legal and valid , and is also justified by 
Section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


Issue No. 6 . 

22. In view of my findings on issues No. 3 and 4 Shri Devi Singh is not entitled 
to any relief against the opposite party , herein . 

23 . In the result , an award is passed , that Shri Devi Singh is not entitled to 
any relief against the opposite party , Messrs . R . B . Seth Ram Prasad Rajgarhia . 
No order as to costs. 

E . KRISHNA MURTI, 
( Fourteen pages) 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 
The 17th December, 1959 . 

[No. 61/ 10 /58 - LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 16th January 1960 
S . O . 249. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the West Laikdih Colliery and their workmen . 


- - ALL 


380 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA $, 1881 (Part 11 

- - - - - - - - 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No . 58 OF 1959. 
Employers in relation the West Laikdih Colliery . 

AND 
Their workmen , 

Dhanbad , the 7th January 1960 
PRESENT: Shri Salim M . Merchant, B .A . LL .B ., Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers : 
Shri S . S . Mukherjea , B .Sc. B .L ., Advocate, with Shri K . P . Dey, Manager, 

West Lajkdih Colliery . 
For the workmen ; 
Shri D . Narsingh , MA LL . B ., Advocate , with Shri B . N . Sharma, Member, 

Executive Committee, Colliery Mazdoor Sang . 
INDUSTRY ; COAL . 

STATE : BIFAR. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No . F . No. L . R .II / 2 ( 154 / 59 dated 19 / 21 September , 1959 , made in exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 47 ) , was plcased to refer to me for adjudication tho 
industrial dispute between the parties above named in respect of the matters 
specified in the following schedule to the said order : - - 

SCHEDULE 
" ( 1) Whether the management was justified in terminating the services of 

Shri K . K . Bakshi, Electric Supervisor. 
( 11) If not, to what rellef is he entitled and with effect from which date ?” 


2 . After the parties had filed their respective statements, at Yesterday s hear 
ing of the dispute after some discussion , the parties filed a memorandum of com 
promise recording the terms of settlement reached between them and have prayed 
that an award be made in terms thereof. A copy of the terms of compromise is 
annexed hereto and marked Annexure A . As I am satisfied , on the facts and 
circumstances of the case that the terms of settlement are fair and reasonable , I 
make an award in terms thereof. 
3 . No order as to costs . 

(Sd.) SALIM M . MERCHANT, 
Presiding Officer, Central Government 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
Dhanbad , The 7th January , 1960 . 


ANNEXURE A , 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT S INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No, 58 OF 1959 , 
Employers in relation to West Lajkdih Colliery, 


AND 


Their Workmen 
The above named parties state that the above matter has been compromised 
between them on the following : 

Terms 
1. That the Employers shall pay to Sri K . K Bakshi, the workman concerned 
the sum of Rs. 450 ( Four hundred and fifty ) only in full and final settlement of 
all his claim and demand till date . 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 9, 1881 381 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - : - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 
2 . That the above payment of Rs. 450 will be made within 25th January , 1960 , 
to Mr. D . Narsing advocate at his residence for payment to the workman . 

3. That the abovenamed workman will not press his claim for re-instatcment. 
4 . That the Parties will bear their respective cost, 
It is therefore prayed that the above Reference may be compromised on 

the terms aforesaid and an award passed accordingly . 


For employer. 


For Workman . 


( S . $ . MUKHERJEA , Advocate ), 

6th January , 1960 . 


( D . NARSINGH , Advocate ) . 
8th January , 1960. 


( K . P , DEY, Manager ), 

6th January , 1960 . 


( B . N . SHARMA), 
Ath January , 1960 . 
Member , Executive Committee , 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
8th January , 1960. 


( Sd .) SALIM M , MERCHANT, 
Presiding Officer, Central Government, 

Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No . 2 / 154 / 59 - LRII. ) 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 13th January 1960 


$ . 0 , 241. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Dhemo Main Colliery and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the discharge of Shri Arjun Nunia , surfare trammer, with effect from 
the 1st July , 1959, was justified and it not to what relief is he entitled and from 
whom , i. e . whether from the management o Dhemn Main Colliery or the Con 
tractor , Shri Ram Khelwan ? 

[ No. F . 2 /196 /59- LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 


S . O . 242. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a difficulty or 
doubt has arisen as to the interpretation of paragraph 2 in Annexure " A to the 
Award dated the 18th February , 1959 of the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal at Dhanbad in Reference No . 54 of 1958 , published with S . O . 528 , dated 
the 27th February , 1959 ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
question for interpretation ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 30A ot the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby refers 
the question specified in the Schedule below for interpretation to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7 - A of the said Act . 


282 TUF GAZETTE OR INDI. JIVUIRY 23, 1960YMAGHTI 9, 1881 [ PART II 
- - - - - -- -- -- - - - -- 

SOILDULT, 
Whether the increase of Rs. 9 in the drarness allowance provided in para 2 
of Annexure A to thc Compromise Award published with the Ministry of Labour 
ind Employment Notification No LRII / 11 ( 20 ) /58, dated the 27th February , 1959) 
( S . O , 528 ) should be added to thin dcarness allowance as on 18th February , 1959 
calculated at prc -Award rate or to the dearness allowance As on that date 
ninosible under paru 1 of thic belirt Annexuri A to the Award 

[No . F . LRII- 11 (28 ) /59 ] 


S . O . 243 . -- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Canara Industrial and 
Banking Syndicate Ltd and thrir werkmen in report of the matter Decified in 
the Schedule hercto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of suh - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 19417 ( 14 ot 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri K Ramaswamy Gounder BA , ML retired ligh Court Judge, Madras shall 
be the Presiding Officer with headquartcrs at First Line Beach , Madras and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication wu the and Industrial Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the clerk of the cash branch in the Canara Industrial and Banking 
Syndicate , Madras who is asked to hold it kev of the single lock cash hox under 
the existing circumstances is entitled to an allowance under ppja 164 ( b ) of the 
Bank Award and , if not, to what other relict he is entitled . 

[No. LRII- 10 ( 97) / 59. ] 


Nele Delhi, the 18th January 1960 
S . O . 244. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India Ltd ., 
New Delhi and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication , 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government heieby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
Tunal, Delhi constituted under sertion 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether in the matter of anpointment as Junior Officer , the supersession of 
Shri N . R . Chadha al rleric in the Central Bank of India Limited , New Delhi, by 
the promotion of Shri G R Dargon and Shri Raja Ram Naear of the said Bank 
was justified anıl, iſ nut, to what relief Shri N . R . Chadhg is entitled ? 

[ No. LRII -10 (184 ) / 59. ] 
TEJĄ SINGH SAHNI, Dy. Sery , 


New Delhi, the 18th January , 1960 
$ . 0 . 215 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 
of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Gurbachan Singh Jabhi, Additional, Chief Inspector of Mines , to be the Chief Ins 
nertcr of Mines for all the territories to which the said Act extends, with effert 
from , the afternoon of the 18th January , 1961 , mire Shri Sarwan Singh Grewal. 
granted leave 

[MI-8( 84 ) /59 .7 


SFC, 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 1960 /MAGHA !, TRA! 387 
- - = -- - - - - - - - - --- - - - - 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
S . O 246 Im pursuance of sub - section ( 5 ) of vection 5 of thic Coal Mines 
Labout Welfare Fund Act, 1947 ( 32 of 1947 ) , the Catral Government horoby 
publishes an estimate of receipts into and expenditure from the General Welfare 
Account of the Coal Mines Labour Housing and General Welfare Fund during the 
yrar 1959 - 60 together with a statement of the accounts for the year 1958 -59 and 
a l eport of the activities financed durine that year from the General Welfare 
Tacowit of the said Fund . 


Fstimates of Receips and Fxpenditure 


Receipts 
Rs, 27 ,51,897 


Expenditure 
Rs. 77 ,560 ,000 


Statements of accounts 


Receipts 
Opening balance on I- 11 -58 . 


Expenditurc 
Expenditure during ihe year 


Receipts during the year 


Rs. 3 , 19 , 23 , 525 
Rs. 32 ,83, 474 


Rs. 58,23,229 
Cloying balance on 31 -3 - 195 " , 

Rs. 2 ,92, 93, 770 
Rs. 3, 51,06,999 


TOTAL : - 


Rs. 3,51,06 ,999 
REPORT 


The year under review was marked by the opening of two more Regional 
Hospitals with attached Maternity & Child Welfare Centres, the conversion of the 
Regional Hospital, Scarsole into a T . B . Hospital, the implementation of the Feeder 
Adult Education Centro Scheine, the running of Tailoring Classes for the depen 
dents of the victims of Chinakuri Colliery accidents and by the organising of the 
first Special Train for coal miners . The progress achieved in respect of various 
activities is given in the following paragraphs. 


I. HOSPITALS AND OTHER MEDICAL FACTITIES 
1. Central Hospital, Dhanbad . — The hospital whose bed strength had been 
increased to 250 from the previous year entered the eighth year of its existence 
and continued to render useful service to the collicry workers suffering from 
various kinds of diseases. The average daily number of in - patients treated in the 
hospital during the year was 266 against 250 during the previous year. 

A total of 26 ,567 patients were treated in the different departinents of the 
hospital during the year. 


2 . Central Hospital, Asansol. — The second Central Hospital of the Fund at 
Kalla , Asansol in the Ranipanj Coalfield which started functioning from April, 
1955 was completing the 4th year of its existence . The average daily nuinber of 
in - patients treated in the hospital during the year was 260 against 237 during the 
previous voar . 

Due to liravy influx of patients , the scheme of expansion of the hospital from 
its existing hnd strength of 165 to 250 hods was sanctioned by Government. 
Construction of additional buildings was started . Sanction of the Government was 
also issued to a scheme of Letting up a Deep X ray Therapy Section with necessary 
accessories at the hospital for providing facilities of deep X ray therapy and 
tadium treatment. 

A total of 28 ,074 patients were treated in the diſfcrcnt departments of the 
hospital. 


3 Regionul Jospitals.- The Five Regional Hospitals - cum -Maternity & Child 
Welline Contray which had been established previously at Kitrus And Tisra in 
1lie Jharia coalfind and at Chora and Searsole in the Raniganj coalfield and Jarnai 
in the Pench Valley coalfield continued to render useful service The 30 bed 
Regional Hospital- cum -Maternity & Child Welfarr Centre at Naisarai in the 
Ramgarh -Karanpura coalfield was opened by the Union Deputy Minister for Labour 
on the 6th December 1958 The O . P D . of the hospital starter functioning from 
the 1st August 1958 . The Indoor Department of the 18 beded Regional ITospital 


- = 


384 

THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 / MAGHA 3, 1881 [PART II 
- - = 

-- - - 

- - - 

- - - - - 
at Dhanpuri in the Vindhya Pradesh Coalfield started functioning from the 15th 
August 1958 . The O . P . D . was functioning from the previous year. The out- door 
department of the Regional Hospital, Phusro in the Bokaro Coalfield also started 
functioning during the year . 

A total of 29,574 patients were treated at the various Regional Hospitals of the 
Fund during the year. 

As the Ramgarh -Karanpura coalfield is a far flung area and the collieries in 
the Karanpura coalfield are at a distance of 50 to 80 miles from the Regional Hos 
pita ), Naisarai, it was felt that it would be difficult for hospitalisation of emergent 
cases like ancidents and to eliminate this diſculty , an arrangement was made with 
thie lləli Family Hospital, Mandar for treatment at the cost of the Fund of colliery 
workers in emergent cases till they would be fit to be removed to the Regional 
Hospital, Naisaral. 

4 . Maternity and Child Welfare Centres. - ( 1) Besides the centres attached to 
the Regional Hospitals , a Centre is run by the Fund at Jatachappa in the Pench 
Valley Coalfield . The Fund has appointed Lady Health Visitors in thc Chanda , 
Talchər and Sambalpur Coalfields for Maternity work in those areas. 

(3 ) Maternity and Child Welfare services were also rendered by the Jharia and 
Asanol Mines Boards of Health for which the Fund was paying an annual giant 
of Rs, 50 .000 / - to cach of the Boards. For similar arrangement in the Ilazaribagh 
Coalfield sanction of Government was obtained for payment of a grant- in -ald to the 
Ilazaribagh Mines Board . 

Pilyment of the annual grant-111 - aid of Rs, 1,000 / - for maintenance of the 10 bed 
Maternity Block at the Government Hospital, Chanda for treatment of colliery cases 
in the area was continued , 

5 . Anti - T . B . Measures . - - ( i) To afford treatment facilities to colliery workers 
suffering from T . B . the Organisation has been running two 12 beded T . B . Clinics 
one at Katras in the Jharia Coalfield and the other at Searsole in the Raniganj 
Coalfield , The Regional Hospital section of the Hospital- cum -Maternity Centre at 
Searsole was converted into a 25 bed T . B . Hospital during the year, the Maternity 
wiug being kept with provision of six beds each for general and Maternity and 
Child Welfare cases. The total number of patients ticated at the Katras T . B . 
Clinis was 413 and that at the Searsole Clinic 237 , 

( ii ) In addition to aforesaid facilities , 67 beds were also reserved by the Fund 
in various Recognised Sanatoria for treatment of colliery T . B . patients . 

Sanction of Government to the reservation of nine additional beds at the 
Ramakrishna Mission T . B Sanatorium , Ranchi and five beds at the Yerragada 
Hospital in Andhra Pradesh was issued and steps were taken for execution of 
agreenents and admission of patients . 

( ill) On the reronumendation of the T . B . Adviser to the Government of India , 
it was de ided to construct a 100 bed T . B Block as an adjunct to each of the two 
Central Hospitals at Dhanbad and Asansol instead of two T . B . Hospitals . 

( iv ) The scheme for payment of subsistence allowance at a rate not exceeding 
Rs, 50 / - P . M . to the cependents of TB . patients undergoing treatment either as 
in - patients at the Fund s TB Clinics or at the beds reserved by the Fund at various 
sanatoria was continued during the year. 

( v ) A pilot scheme of domiciliary treatment to coal mine workers suffering 
from T . B . in the coalfields of Bihar and West Bengal who could not get admission 
either in the T . B . Clinics or at the beds reserved by the Fund was introduced 
during the year . Besides arrangement for free treatment of the patients at the 
centies opened under the scheme, à grant- in -aid for sperial diet upto a maximum 
of Rs 50 / - per month per patient and a subsistence allowance not exceeding 
Rs. 50 / - per month to his dependents if he happened to be the only eerning 
member of the Family were being paid for a maximum pcriod of six months, 
The scheme was put into operation from 1st August , 1958 Treatment of a 
total of 300 patients was provided for under the scheme. Assessment of the cases 
treated under the domiciliary T . B . treatment scheme revealed results of quite 
an encouraging nature . 

6 . Dispensaries . At the two dispensaries run by the Fund , one at the Bhuli 
Township in the Jharja Coalfeld and the other at Mugma in the Mugma Coalfield 
a total of 13, 230 and 5 , 088 ņew cases respectively were treated . As the mobile 
medical unit provided in the Mugma Coalfield was not found to be rendering useful 
service, it was transferred to the Damua area of the Pench Valley Coalfield . 


DEC, 9 ( 11)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 385 
- - - 

- - - - 
7. Ayurvedic Dispensaries. With the opening of two Ayurvedic Dispensaries 
in the Hungarh - Karanpura Coalfield one at Dakra -Buk -Buka in August 1958 
and the other at Central Saunda in Nuveinber 1958, the Organisation was run 
ning seven Ayurycdic Dispensaries . They were found to be very popular A 
total of 26 ,700 patients were treated at the various dispcnsaries , 

With a view to providing an incentive to colllery owners to improve the 
existing dispensaries, a scheme of financial assistance was sanctioned by Govern 
ment. The financal assistanı c under the scheme will consist of an interest free 
loun equal to the actual cost of construction of new buildings for improvement 
in existing buildings for dispensaries , including purchase of equipments , subject 
to a maximum of 16 limes the annual grant- in -aid admissible under the rules . 
The loan is re -payable in not more than 32 annual instalments. Upto the 31st 
Marrh 1959 , two applications had been received one for provision of services 
at one collitry and the other in jespect of six collieries . The first loan amount 
ing to Rs, 60, 000 / - was sanctioned during the ycar. 

8 . X ray Facilities . Xray plants are being supplicd by the Fund to colliery 
hospitals for facilitating diagnosis . Five such plants had already been supplied 
to the hospitals at Giridih , Barkui, Nowrozabad , Kothagudium ard Margherita . 

9. Ambulance Vans. - The Fund has provided five ambulance vans to the 
Central and Regional Hospitals for transporting patients , They carried 1891 
patients during the ycar . They were also used for T . B . Treatment under the 
doiniciliu y Scheme. 

10 . Family Counselling - Family counselling centres were run at the two 
Central lIospitals and tour Regional Hospitals in the Jharla and Raniganj Coal 
field . Twelve hundred and twenty - five cases wore ittcrded to . Sterilization was 
done in 133 cases , 

Family planning lectures and demonstrations were also given to mothers in 
all the 32 Maternity & Child Welfare Centres run by the Jharia Mines Board 
of Ilealth The Field Workers of the Women s Welfare Sertion continued wide 
propaganda on the advantages of family planning, among he woman folk . 


11 . Leprosy Rellet. - The additional ten bed ward at the Tetulmari Leprosy 
Hospital constructed at the cost of the Fund for trcatment of colliery iepcr cases 
staited full tioning from the 15th August 1958 . With the provision of these 
adilltional beds , the Fund was maintaining a total of 46 beds for treatment of 
leper cascs for which re - urring grant was being paid by the fund . 

ANTI -MALARTA OPERATIONS 
Malaria control operations were continued in the Coalfields of Jharia , Hazari 
bagh , Raniganj, Pench Valley , Korea , Chanda, Margherita , Talcher , Sambalpur 
ani Singarent Collſeries . The main programme is spraying of residual insccti. 
cides in the Coalfieds with a view to destroying anopheline mosquitoes which 
carry the disease . Two rounds of spray at a dose of 100 of surface were given 
in all Coalields exccpt Margherita where due to its long transmission season 
threc rounds were given . Thirty - five teams with 97 stirrup pumps were engaged 
in spraying. About 740 collierics and 500 adjoining villages were sprayed during 
the year protecting a population of about ten lacs . 

Eight thousand four hundred and eighty - seven persons were given blanketting 
treatment, 1053 persons received suppressive treatment and 31 cases were given 
curative treatment. The treatment of curative cases had been based only on 
microscopical positive findings . 

Diagnostic facilities to colliery Medical Officers were continued . Eight 
thousand five hundred and sixty - five blood slides were examined and 108 out 
of thern were only found to be positive. 

Entomologial observations on the density of anopheline mosquitoes were 
carried out . It was observed that the density vector species was low in all the 
areas . No infected mosquito was detected on examination . 

In most of the areas , sploon , parasite and infant parasite examinations were 
completed and in some areas they were still being continued . Out of 28 , 155 
rhildren Camined for spleen , 229 were found to be positive . Splecn survey was 
carried out amongst the children between two to ten years of age. Out of 13 , 135 
blond slides examined for parasitological examination 25 were found positive, 
Out of 1916 slides from infants examined microscopically for parasite , only 4 
were found to be positive . 


beingositive 
e age. cand positive 


386 


386 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


-- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 8, 1881 [PART II 

- - 

EDUCATION AND RECREATION 
1 . Miners Institute. For providing educational and recreational facilities to 
colliery workers , their children and other dependents , miners institutes , each 
comprising a centre for the welfare of women and children and Adult Education 
Centre and a Children s Park are established in the various Coalfields. With 
the completion of three miners institute buildings during the year 49 miners 
institute buildings had been constructed by the Fund . 


2. Women s Welfare Centres . - Up to the end of the previous year 52 centres 
had been established in the various Coalfields . During the year under review 
three more centres started functioning at Chanch (Mugma Coalfeld ), Newton 
Chickli (Pench Valley Coalfeld ) and Yellandu (Andhra Pradesh Coalfield ) . 

The centres continued to provide elementary education to workers children 
upto Class II standard . The children attending the centres are given bath in 
the morning by the Aya of the centre . They are then dressed with garments 
supplied free by the Organisation , Healthy and interesting games are played at 
all the centres . Milk and tiffin continued to be distributed to the children attend 
ing the Women s Welfare Centres in the various coalfields cvery working day . 
Chura , Gur, Kismis and UNICEF milk powder were supplied to the Medical 
check -up of children s health continued at all tho centres . The health of the 
children was checked up quarterly during the year by the Medical Officers of 
the Organisation . The average health of the children was found satisfactory . 

Besides training in handicrafts like sewing, tailoring, embroidery , repair of 
garments , etc . literacy classes are also held for women at all the centres . A 
total of 704 women attended the literacy and craft classes upto 31st March 1959 
in all the centres (excepting those in Andhra Pradesh ) . The total r.umber ct 
women declared literate upto that date was 467 . All the centres have been 
provided with a Sewing Machine each and other materials for handicraft work , 

The Field Worker went to Dhowrahs daily and spent three hours . The gavą 
taks on varlous subjects such as education , cottage Industries , kitchen , garden 
ing, poultry keeping, civic duties , savings of money, evil effects of drinking , etc , 
so as to assist in the general wellare of the miners families and raise their 
standard of living . They also assisted the women in various matters such as 
admission to hospitals , etc . 

For providing recreation to women attending the centres, radios cr gramo 
phones with records have been provided in almost all the centres Magazines 
are also supplied . During the year 14 new radios were purchased and distri . 
buted to the Women s Welfare Centres . 

Ambar Charkha Scheme was started from 6th December 1958 . One of the 
members of the Field staff of the Section trained at Ranchi conducted the Ambar 
Charkha training classes of the Field Workers and Centre - in -charges under 
training . 

Family Planning propaganda work was done in all the local areas (Dhowrah ) 
of the Women s Welfare Centres by the field staff, Six hundred and sixteen 
kamins were advised regarding benefits of family planning during the year . 

During the ycar 60 Raju Chullahs (Smokeless Chullah ) were constructed in 
the dhowrahs of Bokaro . 

One of the Field Workers was sent for welfare personnel training at Bhull 
during the year and she completed the training successfully . 

3 . Adult Education Centres . - Up to the end of 1957- 58, fifty -three Adult 
Education Centres had been established . During 1958 -59 three niore centres 
started functioning at Chanch , Newton Chickli and Yellandu Eight hundred 
and twenty - six adults were made literate during the year. The total number of 
aduts made literate up to 31st March 1959 was 6313 . 

The post- literacy programme continued to be looked after . A small library 
containing about 400 books was being maintained at each centre. They were 
being used by a fairly large number of persons, Study tours and excursiony 
were arranged to Maithon Dam , Kumardubi Brick and Silica Works Topchanchi 
Lake, the Zohilla River , the Sindri Fertilizer Factory, the Central Hospital 
Dhanbad , the Jealgora Creche , the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works , the Dhan 
puri Regional Hospital, the Digwadlh Mines and Fuel Research Institute , the 
Bokaro Thermal Power Station , Mehijam HI]ls , Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, and 
other places of interest. Cultural activities arranged at the centres included 


Sec. 9 (li )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


387 


- - - 


musical concerts , physical and jogic feats , Bhajan and Kirtan , staging of dramas, 
Birha Programmes , folk dances and Kuwali, Foot Ball, Volley Ball, table tennis, 
and carrom board were dally features at some of the centres. Republic Day , 
Independence Day , Gandhiji s Birth Day, Rabindra Jayanti, Babu Kuwar Singh s 
Day , Tulsi Jayanti, Krishna Jayanti and Saraswati Puja were celebrated at some 
of the centres. Miners Welfare Week , Health Week , etc . were also organised 
at the centres . The 16 mm . Film Projector in the Jharla Coalfield was used 
for exhibition of shows at the centres in the Jharia Coalfeld 


OTHER EDUCATIONAL AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES 


1. Primary Schools . — Monthly grants - in - aid were continued to three schools 
in Talchur, four schools in Andhra Pradesh and ono school each in Korea , Assam 
and Darjeeling coalfields. The Advisory Committee decided at its meeting held 
in Mrach , 1950 that the assistance to schools be continued upto 31st March 1960 , 
A non - recurring grant of Rs. 500 / - was sanctioned for payment to the Kharkharea 
Colliery School for purchase of furniture and equipment. 


2 . Training of Welfare Personnel. The schemes for the training of welfare 
personnel was implemented during the year at the Bhull Towaghip . The scheme 
envisages training of personnel for organising multifarious welfare activities for 
labour of coal and other industries. The centre was opened on tho 2nd August , 
1958 . The Arst course of training was completed on 31st January 1959 . Fifty 
one students sat for the examination . Nine of them passed in first division , 24 
in second division and 10 in third division . The second course of training 
conimerced from 1st March 1959 with 47 trainees. 


3 . Feeder Adult Education Centre.-- -With a vicw to expanding adult education 
activities , a scheme of feeder adult education centre was introduced during the 
year . Under the scheme 35 Feeder Centres were to be opened in accommodation 
made available by colliery owners, in the midst of workers colonics . All the 
35 centies were opened during the year — 12 in Jharla , 8 in Raniganj, 2 each 10 
Giridih , Muina, Ramgarh -Karanpura and Pench Valley , one each in Assam , 
Vindhya Pradesh and Korea and 4 in Andhra Pradesh . As there was a growing 
demand for such centres which were very popular, a proposal for opening 100 
additional centres was approved by the Advisory Committee , 


4 . Grant of scholarship . The scheme of grant of scholarships to sons and 
daughters of colllery employees at Rs, 20 / - p m . each for higher general educa 
tion and at Rs. 30 / - per month each for technical education was continued 
during the year . A proposal for increasing scholarships for general education 
from 50 to 75 was approvod , Sanction of the Government was also accorded to 
the grant of 50 stipends to sons and daughters of colliery employees undergoing 
training at the Industrial Training Institute at Bhuli and other similar institu 
tions opened under the D . G . R & E , scheme at the rate of Rs. 20 / - p .m . 


5 . Facilities for training in leadership and discipline. — The question of provid 
ing facilities for training in discipline to children of coal miners was engaging 
the attentlon of the Organisation , The Union Ministry of Education who were 
Introducing their National Disciplinę Scheme in various educational institutions 
were requested to introduce the scheme in some of the educational Institutions 
in the coalfield areas. They agreed to the suggestion . The scheme was introduced 
in threc of the institutions in West Bengal Coalfieldsrecommended by this 
Organisation in consultation with the State Education Department. The scheme 
would be introduced in some more instítutions in West Bengal and would also 
be extended to other States, 


6 . Games and sports . - - A total sum of Rs 43 , 000 was sanctioned for organising 
games and sports for colliery workers in different Coalfields during the year . 

7 . Health week . — Health weeks / fort-nights were observed in Jharla , Ranigany 
and Hazaribagh Coalfields for which a sum of Rs. 11 ,500 was sanctioned 
The celebrations included : 
(9 ) General sanitation including cleaning of surroundings, repatring 

drains, disinfection of wells , etc . 
( b ) Health exhibition comprising of baby - show health talks by experts on 

hygiene and sanitation , educative Alms, distribution of pamphlets on 
care of babies and prevention of spread of infectious diseases, 


388 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960 /MAGHA 3, 1881 


[ PART II 


- - - 
( C ) Distribution of prizes to babics adjudged to be the hcalthiest in their 

respective age groups. 
8 . Miners Wolfare week - -- The miners welfare week was observed during 
Jantiary 1959 in all the Fund s institutions in yarious coalfiells with great success 
and the total amount sanctioned for cxpenditure for this purpose was Rs. 9, 000 . 

9 . Exhibition of Alms. — The Mobile Cinema units in Jharia , Raniganj, Karan 
pura -Remgarh and Pench Valley Coalflelds suve a total of 626 shows during the 
year 

ENFORCEMENT OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
1. Coal Mines Pithead Bath . — The Coal Mines Pithcad Bath Rules . 1946 
continued to be - administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation . 
The total number of collieries where Pithead Baths had been completed was 202 
and that of colleries wherç they were under construction was 72. 

2 . Creche in coal mines . The administration of the Mines Crørhe Rules , 1946 
continued to be the responsibility of the Organisation . Creches had been com 
pleted in 379 collieries and they were under construction in 56 collicries. Supply 
of diet to children at the Creches was made compulsory . Attendance of children 
as also the popularity of the Creches incrcased thereby. 

3. Pruscoution - - For contravention of the Coal Mines Pithead Bath Rules and 
Mines Creche Rules, 127 prosecutions were launched during the year. 

4 . Maternity Bencit .- - The Mines Maternity Benefit Act and the Rules made 
thereunder are also administered by the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Organisation , 
During the year Mines Maternity Bencft amounting to Rs. 1,08 ,475 was paid 
by the empioyers to 2555 women workers . 

5 . Workmen s Compensation . - Members of the Inspectorate of the Organisa 
tion have been following up cascs of accidents in coal mines which involve pay 
ment of workinen s compensation . Out of a total of 1720 cascs reported , 898 
were followed up during the year — 316 were adinitted and 82 were not admitted 
Payment was made in 395 cases. 

OTHER AMENITIES 
1 A monthly allowance of Rs. 10 for a period of 2 years is given from the 
Fund to widow of a colliery worker meeting death as a l esult of an accident 
at the colliery and a scholarship of Rs. 5 p .m . for a period of three yenrs to 
each of his children attending school, 

2 , Co -operative movement in coalfields. The drive initiated by the Organisa 
tion to spread co-operative inovement in the Coalfields and thus amcliorate the 
social and economic nondition of coal miners and free them from the clutches 
of usurious money - lenders was being continued . As a result oť the drive many 
new Co - operatives were formed with the active co - operation of the State Co 
operative authorities concerned . In order to pla ’ e the Societies on sound footing 
and to ensure their smooth functioning the Organisation was making every 
cffort for securing the maximum co - operation of the colliery management, 
the State Co -operative authorities and others . A scheme for payment of non 
recurring grant of Rs. 67 / - from the Fund to each newly organised Co -operative 
Society towards the preliminary cost of establishment was introduced towards the 
end of the year . Up to the 31st March 1959, eight Societies were paid the grant. 

3 . Centre for Imparting training in tailoring to dependents of the victims of 
the Chinakur Accident. - A centre for imparting training in talloring to the 
widows and other female dependents of the victims of the Chinakuri accident 
was started at the Fund s Multi -purpose Institute at Chinakuri from February , 
1953. The training classes were being financed from out of the donations received 
from various sources . Fifteen female dependents offered to undergo the training 
and they were admitted . A Sewing Machine was provided to each . Each of the 
trainees was being paid a stipend at the rate of Rs. 30 / - per month during the 
training period . The trainees would be allowed to have the machine after com 
plction of the training in order to enable them to carn a living . 

4 . Excursion -cum - Study Tour for coal miners . With a view to providing an 
opportunity to the coal miners to visit important places in the country , arrange 
ments were made for a special train with 500 mtners, to visit Lucknow , Tiori 
dwar , Bhakra Nangal, New Delhi, Mathura , Agra , Varanasi, Tata nagar and Puri. 

[No. M - II- 15 ( 22 ) / 59. ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy. 


mers. With a venge country , arranare 


Se,5( _ THEGAZET TE OF INDIA-JANUARY 28,1960 MACHAS. 161 _ 


SEC , $ ( ii ) 
= = = 


_ _ 389 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA JANUARY 29 , 1960 /MAGHA 9, 1881 
= 

= 

= = = 
ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 


389 


9 . 0 . 247.- -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust , 
Bombay and their workmen regarding the matters specified in the Schedule hcreto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of scction 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the channel of promotion to certificated posts of Dock Crew of 

the Dock Flotilla and the Harbour Flotilla of the Port Department 
of the Bombay Port Trust , should continue to be unified or be 

separated ? 
( 2 ) Whether the promotions and transfers of Dock Crews made from the 

Harbour Flotilla to the Dock Flotilla and vice versa after 31st August, 
1959, should be cancelled or not ? 


[No. 28 (3 ) / 60-LR IV .] 


New Delhi, the 18th January 1960 
S . O . 248. — Whereas an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Nowrozabad Colliery of Messrs Associated Cement Company Limited and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 
was rcferred for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal constituted with Shri 
F . Jeejeebhoy as the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Bombay, by the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No . S . O 639, dated the 14th March , 1959 ; 

And whercas a large number of prgcecdings are pending adjudication before 
the said Tribunal and whereas the Central Government considers It desirable 
that the said dispute should be adjudicated expeditiously ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby withdraws the proceeding in relation to the said dispute pending 
before the said Tribunal and transfers the same to the Additional Irdustrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted by notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 172 dated the 16th January , 1960 , 
of which Shri Salim M , Merchant is the Presiding Officer , for the disposal of the 
proreeding . 


SCHEDULE 
( I ) Whether the mutual agreement dated the 25th July 1957 between the 

management of the Nowrozabad Collery and their workmen repre 
sented by the Nowrozabad Colllery Mazdoor Sangh , Post Oflce 
Nowrozabad should be treated as legally valid agrecment and 

whether it is still binding on the parties ? 
( II) What should be the standard of loading of a tub - -whether up to the 

" water level" at the coal face or upto the " water level" on the 

surface ? 
( 111 ) Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 

the surface . If so , whether the deductions made from the earnings 
of the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface he refunded 

to the miners , and if so , from what date? 
( IV ) Whether the drilling of shot holes, stemming of shot holes, water bail 

ing , shot- firing, dragging of cables etc from part of the normal 
duties of a miner . If not, what relief the miners are entitled to for 
having done these jobs and from what date ? 


390 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23, 1960 /MAGHA 8 , 1881 


[PART II 


( V ) Whether the miners should be paid extra wages for the manufacture 

of earthen pallets and if so , at what rate and from what date ? 
(VI) Whether the monthly paid staff are entitled to any acting allowance 

while employed in jobs of higher categories and responsibilities . If 

so , at what rate ? 
( VII ) Are the workers entitled to wages for the period from 30th July , 1958 

to 12th August, 1958, and if so , to what extent? 
(VIII ) Whether there were incremental scales of pay for monthly rated work 

men before the publication of the award of the All India Industrial 

Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) and if so, whether the workmen have 
been adversely affected by the introduction of new scales of pay 
with effect from 1st January 1957. If they have been adversely 

affected , to what rellet they are entitled ? 
( IX ) Whether the retirement of Sarvaşhrl Jahangir Khan , Charka , Ali 

Mohammad , Ram Prasad and Ramadhin was justified and whether 
they are entitled to any rellet ? 

[ No . 4 / 42 / 59 -I-LRII.) 
S . O . 249. - Whereas an Industrial dispute betwcen the employers in relation 
to the Kotma Colliery of the Associated Cement Company Limited and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed was 
referred for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal constituted with Shri F . Jee . 
jeebhoy as the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Bombay , by the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S .O . 
640, dated the 14th March , 1959 ; 

And whereas a large number of proceedings are pending adjudication before 
the said Tribunal and whereas the Central Government considers it desirable 
that the said dispute should be adjudicated expeditiously ; 

Now , therefore , In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby withdraws the proceeding in relation to the said dispute pending 
before the said Tribunal and transfers the same to the Additional Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted by the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment NO, S .O . 172 dated the 16th January 
1960 , of which Shri Salim M . Merchant is the Presiding Omcer , for the disposal 
of the proceeding . 


SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) What should be the standard of loading of a tub whether upto the 

" water level" at the coal face or upto the " water level" on the 

surface ? 
(11) Whether a loaded tub should be measured at the coal face and not on 

the surface . If so , whether the deductions made from the earnings 
of the miners as a result of shortage found on the surface be refunded 

to the miners, and if so , from what date ? 
(iii) Whether the drilling of shot holes, stemming of shot holes , water ball 

ing, shot -firing , dragging of cables , etc . form part of the normal 
duties of a miner . If not, to what relief the miners are entitled for 

having done those jobs and from what date ? 
( iv ) Whether there were incremental scales of pay for monthly rated work 

men before the publication of the award of the All - India Industrial 
Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes) and if so whether the workmen were 
adversely affected by the introduction of new scales of pay with 
effect from 1st January 1957. If they were adversely affected to what 
relief they are entitled ? 

[No. 4 / 42 / 59-LRII.) 
S . O . 250. — Whereas the Central Government is of Opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between Messrs Hill, Son and Dinshaw ( Private ) , Limited , Bombay , 
and their workmen regarding the matters, specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 8, 1881 


391 


Now , therefore, in exercise of thc powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby, refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the daily rated time keepers employed by Messrs Hill, Sori and 
Dinshaw ( Private ) Limited , Bombay , be made permanent and if so , how many ? 

[ No. 28 ( 46 ) /59 -LRIV . ] 


S . O . 251, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Tulsidas Khimji, 
Clearing and Forwarding Agents , Bombay and their workmen , regarding the 
matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whercas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Quantum of bonus payable to workmen for the year cnded 31st October , 
1958 . 

[ LR -IV -28 (47) /59.] 
S . O . 252 . - Whereas the Bombay Port Trust General Workers Union has 
raised a doubt relating to the interpretation of the Award of the Industrial Tribu 
nal at Calcutta , published with S . O . 1115 , dated the 9th June, 1958 , in the Gazette 
of India , Part II, Section 3 sub - section ( ii ) , dated the 14th June, 1958 ; 

And whercas in the opinion of the Central Government, a doubt has arisen as 
to the correct interpretation of paragraph 46 of the said Award on the question 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 36A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said question for decision to the Additional Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether boys, cooks and bhandaries employed in the Chief Engineer s flotilla 
arc cntitled to uniforms in accordance with the principles laid down in paragraph 
45 of the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , published with S . O . 1115 , 
dated the 9th June, 1958 , 

[ No. LRIV . 28 ( 38 ) /59 . ] 


S . O . 289. Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between Messrs Dharsi Moolji and their workmen regarding the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the demand of the workmen of Messrs Dharsi Moolji for an interim 
relief of Rs. 5 per month is justified and if so , from what date iş it payable ? 

[No. 28 ( 50 ) 59- LRIV .] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


392 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 23 , 1960/MAGHA 8, 1881 


[PART 1] 


E 


-- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14th January 1960 
S . O . 254. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section of the Cinematograplı Act, 1952 ( 37 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hcreby directs that the cxhibition of the film entitled “ Dilli Ka Thug (Hindi ) 
in respect of which an A Certificate No . 910 , dated the 15th September , 1959 was 
granted to New Oriental Pictures , Bombay by the Central Board of Film Censors, 
be suspended for a period of one month , 

[No . 9 / 26 / 58 - FC . ] 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 15th January 1960 


S . O . 255 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules, namely : 
THE BROADCASTING STATIONS AND OFFICERS (ALL INDIA RADIO ) 

(SENIOR MECHANICS ) RECRUITMENT RULES , 1960 . 


1 . Short title and commencement.- - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Broad 
casting Stations and Officers ( All India Radio ) ( Senior Mechanics ) Recruitment 
Rules , 1960 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force at once. 


2 , Recruitment, etc . The method of recruļtment to the posts of Senior 
Mechanic in the Broadcasting Stations and Offices of the All India Radio and 
certain other matters connected therein shall be as specified in the Schedule 
below : 

· SCHEDULE 


Namo No. 

of of 
post post 


Classica - Scale of 

tion pay , 


Whether Method of recruitment In case of recruit 
selection whether by direct ment by promo 

post or recruitment or by pro - tion / transfer , 
non - eclec - motion or transfer and grades from which 
tion post . Percentage of the promotion to be 

vacancies to be filled made. 
by vatious methods. 


2 


3 


I 
Senior 
Mecha 

nic 


70 


Class III ION - 5 - - Non - sclec 
( non -Gaze - 125 – 6 – tion 
tted ) ( non - 155 -- EB 
ministerial) 6 - 185 


100 % br promotion on 
the basis of seniority 
cum - fitness . The pro 
motions will be made 
on zonal basis . The 
zones would be as 

under : 


Maclianics . 


NORTHERN ZONE ; 


1 . Allahabad 
2 . Ajmer / Jalpur 
3 . Delhi 
4 . External Services Division , New Delhi 
5 . High Power Transmitter, Delhi 
6 . High Power Transmitter, Khampur 
7 . Jammu 
8 . Jullundur 
9. Lucknow 
10 . Maintenance Deptt . New Delhi 
11. Monitoring Service , Şimla . 


SEQ, 8 (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 28, 1960 /MAGHA 8 , 1881 


393 


= 


= 


= 


12 . New Services Division New Delhi 
13. Rescarch Department, New Delhi 
14 . Srinagar 
15 . Simla 
16 . Transcription Service, New Delhi 
17 . Central Project Circle, New Delhi, 
18 . Directorate General, New Delhi. 


WESTERN ZONE : 


1. Ahmedabad / Baroda 
2 . Bombay 
3 . Bhopal 
4 . Dharwar 
5 . High Power Transmitter, Bombay 
6 . Indore 
7 . Nagpui 
8 . Poona 
9 . Rajkot 
10. Western Project Circle, Bombay . 


SOUTHERN ZONE : 


1 1. Bangalore 
2 . High Power Transmitter, Madras 
3 . Hyderabad 
4 . Kozhikode 
5 . Madras 
6 . Tiruchirapalli 
7 . Trivandrum 
8 . Trichur 
0 . Vijayawada 


EASTERN ZONE : 


1. Calcutta 
2 . Cuttack 
3 . Gauhati 
4 . Patna 
5 , Ranchi 
6 . Eastern Project Circle , Calcutta , 

[No. 11 (6 ) / 89- B (A ). ] 
C , B . L . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


394 


VISYA -BHARATI UNIVERSITY 

Santiniketar the 4th January, 1960. 
S. O . 256.- Audited Accounts for 1956 – 57 . 
Abstract Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1957 


LIABILITES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps . 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Block Value (As per contra ) 

General Office 
Ist Five Year Plan 
Vinaya - Bhavana 
Pallı- Samgathana Vibhaga 


61, 99 , 459 14 10 

2 ,01, 856 70 
5 ,48, 232 10 0 
9 ,64, 200 3 9 


VALUE OF LANDS BULLDINGS, 

FURNITURE, MACHINERIES ETC . 
GENERAL ORFFICE 
( 1 ) General 
(2 ) Ist Five Year Plan . 
( 3 ) Vibaya - Bhayana 


79, 14 399 


3 


7 


63,56 ,185 9 7 
2 ,01,856 70 
5 , 48, 882 10 


CAPITAL FUNDS 

General Office 
Publishicg Department 


2 ,59 , 177 2 

8 , 266 13 


0 
6 


2 ,67,443 15 


6 


Palli- Samgathana Vibhaga . 
Publishing Department , 


. 


71, 06 ,924 10 7 

9 ,61. 200 39 
1, 25 .298 3 9 


81, 96 ,423 2 


1 


OTHUR FUNDS 
Gneral Office 
Publishing Departmert . 
Palli- Samngathana Vibhaga 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA%,1881 


6 . 25 .756 75 
47, 520 15 3 
5 , 175 14 


FUND INVESTMENT 
General Office 
Publishing Department 


6 , 78 ,453 


5 


2 


, 


5 ,02 , 751 12 

39 , 468 6 


0 
0 


5x42, 230 20 


2 , 54 , 631 il 
22 , 660 0 


9 
3 


2 ,77, 291 12 


O 


C 


GOVERNMENT GRANTS 
General Office 

Palli- Samgathana Vibhaga 
EARMARKED DONATIONS 
General Office 

Palli-Samgathana Vibhaga 
BALANCE OF SUNDRY ACCOUNTS 

General Office 
Palli- Sangathana Vibhaga 


OTHER ASSETS 
General Office (18 , 375- 8 - 0 
plus 15 ,115 - 7 - 6 plus 
9, 837 -6 - 9 plus 6 .0397 
plus 388 - 8 - 9 plus 9 ,705 146) 
Palli- Samgathana Vibhaga 
Vista -Bharati Patrika (3145! 
plus 26 - 8- 0 ) . . 


, 


27 ,548 7 3 
1, 787 46 


59,462 46 
10 , 911 99 
3 ,175 80 


29 , 335 II 9 


73,549 6 


3 


7 . 034 
7 , 297 


I 
1 


2 
6 


14 ,331 3 


1 


LOAN ACCOUNT 
General Office 
Palli - Samngathana Vibhaga 


SUNDRY DEBTORS 
Palli- Sangathana Vibhaga 
Fublishing Department 


1 . 60 000 00 
1, 11, 573 14 01 2 .71, 573 14 0 


. . 


12 ,416 6 3 
25 ,208 29 


37 ,624 9 


[PARTII 


DEPOSITS 

General Office 
Palli -Samgathana Vibhaga 
Publishing Department . 
Visva - Bharati Patrika 


6 , 54, 421 1 0 

26 ,679 100 
11 , 888 14 6 

72 13 9 


. 


1, 03 ,785 29 


SEC,8(lt)] 


ADVANCE SCSPENSE 
Palli - Sarrgathara Vibhaga 

(3 ,350 - 13 -0 plus 771- 6 - 6 ) 
Publishing Department 
Visva- Bhaiati Patrika 

(190 -8 -0 plus 2 ,989 - 14 -0 ) 


ADYANCF , SUSPENSE , IMPREST 
General Office ( 100614 - 10 - 9 

plus 3105 plus 65 - 8 -0 ) , 

Palli -Sangathana Vibhaga 
63,062 7 3 (9416 - 10 - 9 plus 2376 -50 

plus 185- 8 -6 plus 72 /- ) 
Publishing Department 
(6994 - 10 - 0 plus 1, 35, 999 /-) 
Visva - Bharati Patrika ( 15 - 0 - 0 

plus 17 - 15 - 3 ) 
25, 102 9 6 REFECTORY ACCOUNT 
89, 094 10 6 


12,050 8 3 
1,42,993 10 0 

32 15 3 


4 , 122 3 6 
17, 500 00 
3,480 6 O 


2,58,862 4 3 

89 ,094 10 6 


REFECTORY ACCOUNT , 


, 


, 


SUNDRY LIABILITIES 
Gencral Office (46 .038-0 - 4 plus 

12 . 746 - 9 -6 plus 2 ,026- 6 - 3 
plus 3 , 768- 12 - 9 plus 29 ,046 - 11 - 4 ) 
Palli- Samgathana Vibhaga 

65.402- 2 - 3 plus 290 - 12 -6 ) 
Visva - Bharati Patrika i 


93,626 


8 


2 


STORES 
General Office (36 , 545 - 5 - 9 plus 

100 -0 -0 plus 925 - 100 plus 

9 ,357 ) 
Palli - Samgathana Vibhaga 
Publishing Department 
Vista Bharati Patrika 


5 ,692 14 
1 , 923 II 


9 
0 


46 ,927 15 
1 , 19 , 705 4 
4 : 45 . 282 15 

2 , 209 2 


9 
3 
6 
0 


6,44, 125 5 6 


Publishing Department 


. 


45, 287 9 11 


1, 46 , 530 II IO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


STOCK ACCOUNT 

General Office 


100 OO 


INCOME & EXPENDITURE A / C . 
PROFIT & LOSS A / c. 
General Office 
Palli - Samgathana Vibhaga 

(Silpa - Sadana) · · 
CASH AND BANK BALANCES 
Guneral Office 
Publishing Department 
Visva - Bharati Patrika . 


20 , 800 8 11 
58 ,060 47 


78 ,860 13 6 


INCOME & EXPENDITURE A / C 

AND PROFIT & LOSS A / C , 
General Office 
Publishing Department 
Visva -Bharati Patrika , 


1, 13 , 151 100 
7 ,06 , 108 I 10 

4,264 14 3 


12 .43.828 8 

56 ,038 1 
6 ,607 3 


5 
0 
9 


8, 23,524 10 


I 


13 ,09 ,473 13 2 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


1, 12 ,30,244 


2 


3 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


1, 12 ,30,244 2 


3 


The Accounts ana the Balaoce Sheet of the Visva - Bharati University for the year 1956 - 57 have been test - audited under my suçervision . Subject to 
the obsei Yations made in the Audit Report, the Acourts exhibit, in my opinion , a true and correct view of the state of affairs of the University according 
10 the best of information and the explanations given to me and as shown in the books of the Univeisity , 
Sd / - N , C . METRA , 

Sd - K . P . JOSEPH , 
Artha -Sachiva , 

Deputy Accountant General (O . A . ), 
Vispa- Bharati University . 

West Bengal, 


395 


Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1957 


396 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Block value as per contra 


. 


. 


63 .56, 185 9 


7 


Less : Staff Quarteis out of Loan . 


1, 56 , 725 10 


9 


Block Value : 
Buildings etc , under ist Five 

Year Plan 
Block Value : 

Vinaya -Bhavana Building etc. 


I. Value of Land at Santiniketan , 
Sridiketan and Vinaya-Bhavana 

(with Garden 
61, 99, 459 14 10 As per last A /c . 

Add : Land transferred by Sj. R . 

N . Tagore (Uttarayana Area ) . 
2,01.856 70 

2 . Land at Kalimpong 
5.48.882 10 O As per last A /c. . . . 

3 . Land and Buildings at Calcutta 

As per last A / c . 
Less : Value depreciated . 
4 . Buildings at Santiniketan 
As per last A / c . 
Less : Value depreciated . 


23 . 00 , 401 00 

74, 305 IO O 
23,74 .706 10 O 

963 OO 23,75 ,669 100 


. 


1 , 49 . 064 12 6 

2. 236 + 3 


1.46 ,818 8 3 


CAPITAL FUND 

As per last Ac. 10 , 91.086 9 9 
Less : Block value 
of Palli-Samgathana 
Vibhaga out of 
Capital Fund 
upto 31-3 -56 8,37 059 79 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA9,1881 


2,54 ,027 20 


23, 19 , 064 96 

34 ,785 15 6 


22 ,84 .278 100 


Added during 

the year being 
sale proceeds 
of Block 


5 , 150 0 


0 


0 , 59 , 177 


2 


O 


Add : Value of leasehold property 
As per last A /c . 21,889 1 6 
Add : out of 
Revenue Alc. 10, 553 12 6 
Add : Uttarayan 
Buildings trans 
ferred by Sj. R . N . 
Tagore 

1 ,42, 586 9 0 


1 , 75 ,029 


7 


0 


21,59. 308 


I 


2 


5 . Kutcha Buildings 
As per last A /c . 

Less : Value depreciated 
6 . Kalimohan Smriti Mandir 
As per last A / C . 


24 , 636 60 
2 , 463 IO O 


22 , 172 12 


FUNDS 

Suadry Earmarked Funds 
As per last 

A / c . . : 491,571 8 5 
Added during the 
year 

· 31,054 + 3 


0 


522 ,635 12 8 


1. 809 66 


[PARTI 


7. Septic tank & Drain for Kitchen 

waste disposals : 
As per laat 9 / c . 
Less : Value depreciated , . 


8 ,923 3 
2 , 205 I2 


0 
9 


6 ,617 6 


3 


Compassionate 

Allowance Fund 
As per last Alc . 
Added during 

the year . 


Sec,8(l)] 


1 ,032 


8 


0 


106 II 


o 


4 ,239 30 


8 . Water Supply Scheme at San 

tiniketan 
As per last Alc . 
Less : Value dcpreciated . 


3 ,85,652 I2 IO 

12 , 168 14 6 


Rahinara Bhiati 

Fund 
As per last A /c. . 37 .507 00 
Less ; Spent 

during the year 163 8 0 


3 ,73, 453 14 4 

265 OO 


Adl : Water reser cir 

(G . T . Tank ) . 


37 ,343 80 


. 


. 


3- 73,548 14 


8 , 161 II 0 


Polder Fund 
As per last A /c . . 
Less : Spent 

durirg the Fr . 


9 , Old Water Works 
As per lant Alc . 
Less : Value Lepreciated . 


34 -09 6 
1,725 7 


0 
6 


32, 783 I 


6 


2 ,573 II ? 


5 ,887 15 9 
5 ,70 ,006 7 5 


26 , 450 50 

529 [ 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


25 ,921 to 31 


IG , Mlawiory Fells 
As per last AC. 
Lers : Value depreciated 
II , Deenabandhu Fund Wells : 

As per lastic 
13 . Electric Installatcas 
As fer last Ac. 
Less : Value deprecia ed . 


Discretionary Grant 
Fund of 
Vice - Chanceller : 
As per last Ac. 5 , 769 00 
Added during the 

· 120 00 

5, 889 Oo 
Less : Spent 

during the ye , 139 OO 
Depreciation Fund , . 
Stock uf Publications 
As per contra 


YI , 


4350 00 


. 


37, 242 36 
1, 67 1 6 


5 , 750 OO 
50 ,000 oo 


aut : Serria libe to 

Lalbandh etc . . 


6 , 25 , 756 75 


35 , 475 10 
1 ,638 2 0 


, 


37,1130 


100 o 


0 


13 . Hadicery & Flants 
As per lust ac, 
Lass : Value depreciareut . 


6 , 092 II 

301 10 


0 
0 


5 ,788 


I 


o 


Add : Single phase 
Motur for Pump etc . 


2 , 521 120 


0 ,309 13 0 


16€ 


Balance Sheet us at 31st March , 1957 


398 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


UNSPENT BALANCE OF GOYT . GRANTS 
Govt. of India for Capital Expendi 

ture 
Under Ist Five Year Plan 
do. For Recurring Expenditure 
Under Ist Five Year Plan 
do . For Swimming Pool . . 


14. Motor Bus , Car, Lorries etc . 

As per last Alc 
Less : Value depreciated . . 


16 , 115 II 0 


33 ,580 


2 


0 


1,6II 90 


5 , 229 4 
1 ,275 14 


0 
3 


Add : Car, Lorries, Cycles 


14 ,504 2 0 
I 1 ,015 00 


25 ,519 20 


8 , 221 II 


9 


5 , 104 00 


35,588 89 
3 ,26 ,650 OO 


2 ,706 15 
5 , 764 10 


15 . Fencing , Garden , Trees etc. 
As per last Ac. 
16 . Library Books & Manuscripts 

As per last A / c . . . 
17 . Pearson Memorial 
Hospital- X Ray Installation 
As per last A / C. 
Less : Value depreciated . 


6 
6 


26 ,782 83 
1 ,324 20 


25 , 158 6 


do . For Indo - Tibetan Studies 
do. For Agro -Economic Research 
do. For Research on Social 

Tension 
do , For Books on Humanities . 
do . For Repairs to Buildings & 

Roads 
do , For Maintaining Cash Balan 
се . . 

. . 
do, For Study Tours 
do. For Publication of Approved 

Works , 
do. For Repairs and Renovations 

to Tata Building 
do. For Hostel Servants quar 

ters . . . 
do. For Sinking Tube well : 
do. For Master Plan 
W . B . Govt, For Hostel for C ? 

Category Santal Trainees 
Orissa Govt. For Collection of 

Folk Songs 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA%,1881 


3 


2 , 274 7 3 
40 ,000 Oo 
1,764 OO 
1, 600 O 
27, 500 0 

10 ,575 00 
1 , 00 ,000 0 0 

318 0 6 


0 


8 ,800 OO 
217 IO O 


2 , 54 ,631 II 9 


Earmarked Donations 

Asper last Ac. . 26 ,038 3 6 
Chair of English 

as perlast Alc. 7 ,918 15 0 
Chair of Econo 

mics 


[PARTII 


As per last Ac. . 5, 763 6 3 
Add : Receipts during the year . 


39, 720 8 9 
11,288 oO 


SEC,8(ii)] 


51, 008 8 9 
23 ,460 16 


27 ,548 7 3 


Less : Spent during the year 
Balances of Sundry Accounts : 
Islamic & Urdu 

Studies . 6 784 I 7 
M .I. T . (Under 

Agro -ED, 
Research ) . 25000 


18 . Furniture & Equipments 
As per last A / c . 
Less : Value depreciated : 


1 , 90 , 945 36 

9 , 547 00 


1 ,81,398 3 6 
39 ,633 13 9 


2 ,21, 052 


I 


3 


7 ,034 


I 


7 


7 , 034 


I 


7 


Add : Purchased during the year 
19 . Clinical Laboratory , P . M . 
Hospital As per last Ac. . 
Less : Value depreciated 


Loan Account : 

Govt . of India . 
As per Ist A , c . 
Less : Repaid during the year 


2 , 131 90 
213 2 6 


1 ,918 


6 


6 


1 , 70 , 000 oo 
10 ,000 0 0 


1, 60 ,00000 


20. Opthalmic Laboratory , 
P . M . Hospital As per 
last Ac. 
Less : Value depreciated . 


6 ,54 ,421 I 0 


614 14 6 

61 7 6 


553 7 0 


Sundry Deposits 
Income from Earmarked Fund 

Investment: 
As per last Ac. 
Add : Interest received during 

the year . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA9,1881 


34 , 999 II 10 


21. Roads and Culverts 

As per last AC 
22. Swimming Pool 
As per last Ac. 


. 


33 ,588 


0 


0 


16 ,313 15 0 
51,313 10 10 


13 , 788 14 


9 


Less : Spent during the year 


5 , 275 10 


6 


46 ,038 0 4 


Less : Value depreciated 


. 


. 


539 90 


Miscellaneous Bills Payable 


12 ,746 


9 


6 


Added during the year 


. 


. 


12 , 949 59 

235 30 


13 , 183 


8 


9 


REFECTORY ACCOUNT : 
Bills payable 
During 1955 - 56 , 
During this year . 54 ,652 09 


23 . Copyright As per last Alc. 
24 . Paintings and Images 


1 ,25, 000 oo 

4 ,050 00 


13 , 880 40 
20 , 562 5 9 
7 5 ,214 6 6 


89 , 094 10 


6 


-399 


Balance Sheet us al 3151March , 1957 


400 


BILITIES 


Rs. 


As. Ps . Rs. 


As. 


Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


As. Ps. 


Rs. 


As . Ps. 


COAL ACCOUNT 

Surplus 
As per last Aic 
Add : Surplus during the year 
Bills payable on Coal Alc . 


1 ,814 9 9 

211 I2 6 


2 .026 6 


3 


SANTINIKETAN PRESS 
25. Machineries 

As per last Alc . 

Less : Value depreciated 
26 . Types and Cases 

As per last A /c . 
Less : Value depreciated 


32 , 271 
3 ,224 


4 
2 


3 
O 


29 ,017 


2 


3 


!! 


3 , 768 12 


9 


EXCESS OF STOCK . 
CapitalStores As per last A /c . 


21, 164 6 6 
2 , 116 70 

- : 
19 .047 15 6 

598 13 6 


. 


27 ,872 


I 10 


Added during the year . 


. 


19 ,646 13 0 


Maintenance Stores As per last A /c . 


1, 174 9 6 


29,046 IJ 


27 . Furniture 

As per last A / c . 
Less : Value depreciated 


32 . 


1980 


305 


I 


0 


-- 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


- 


401 SO 
80 50 


321 30 


23. Electric Installation 
As per last Alc . 

· 
Less : Value depreciated 
WORKSUNDER IST FIVE YEAP PLAN : 
29 . Buildings 

As per list Ale 1 . 36 . 45 15 0 
( 1 , 4 , 135 / 14 91 - ) 
2677 / 159 
Added during 
the year 48, 677 3 3 


1. 95 , 135 


2 


3 


30 . Electric Installation and Plumbing 

As per last Alc . 2 .677 15 9 
Added during 
the year . 


7 , 105 15 3 


31. Furniture 

As per last Alc. 
Added during 
the year . 


6 ,311 5 9 
5 , 370 9 9 


11,681 15 6 


[PARTI 


32. Masonry Well 

As per last A /c. , 


, 


, 


1,718 8 0 


Sra.8(!!)] 


2 ,05,641 90 


Less : Depreciation on : 
Buildings 

3 , 301 49 
Electric Installe 
tion and 
Plumbing 

133 14 6 
Furniture 

315 8 9 
Masonry Well 34 6 0 


3 ,785 20 2, 01, 856 70 


5 ,07 ,601 ISO 


289 14 0 


11 ,853 I 

730 0 


9 
0 


VINAYA - BHAVANA CAPITAL WORKS 
33. Buildings , 

As per last A / c . . . . 
34. Land Development & 

Improvement of Sanitation 

As per last A / c, 
35 . Wells & Equipment 

As per last A / C . . . 
36. Fencing - As per last A /c . 
37 . Electric Installation 

As per last Alc. . 
38 . Furniture & Equipment 

As per last A /c . . 
39. Library : As per last A /c . . 
40 . Roads & Culverts - As per last: 

Alc . . . . 
41. Architecto Honorarium , 
Preliminary expenses & super 

vision charges . 
As per last A / c . , . 


19,718 I 6 
46 , 688 oo 
3 , 334 So 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


3 , 502 So 


15 , 388 12 3 


Les : Depreciation : 

Buildings 33, 263 26 
Water works 4 ,523 4 3 
Furniture 

10 ,243 15 6 
Elec . Lastallation 4 ,326 126 
Architect s Honorarium , 

Preliminary expenses 
and supervision 
charger 

7,866 92 


60 ,223 12 6 


5,48,882 10 O 


401 


Badence Sheet as at 31st March , 1959 


402 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As . Ps . 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps . 


Rs. As. Ps. 


- 


- 


4:44 ,622 90 


- 


-- 


FUND INVESTMENT 
( a ) Funds invested in 

G . P . Notes etc . 
As per fast A / c, 4 ,35,666 12 0 
Add : Invest 
ment during 

the year , 8, 955 13 0 
(b ) Fund Invested 

in Postal 
National Certi 
ficate 
As per last A / c 20 , 000 0 0 
Add : Invest 
meat during 
the year . 25,000 DO 


45,000 og 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
23 
, 
1960 
/ 
MAGHA 
5 
, 
1891 


(c ) Fund Invested in 

Shares of Joint 
Stock Company 
As per last A /c . . 


. 


9 , 000 


0 


0 


( d ) Fund invested 

in Postai Savings 
Banks - As per 
last Account 
Add : Lavest 
ment during 
the year 


4,032 80 


106 II 0 


4, 139 3 


5,02,76 ] 12 O 


Students Fees 
Outstanding 
Less : Irrecove 
rable amount 


21, 876 80 
3 ,501 00 


. 


. 


. 


18 ,375 


o 


[ 
PART 
I 


, 


, 


2,681 7 3 


BIILS OUTSTANDING 

Misc . Bills . . 
Santiniketan 
Press Bills (9015 - 14 -6 
Less Inte 
coverable 21- 5 -0 ) 
Publishing Dept- Sale 
proceeds of 
Publications 


Sec.3(ii)] 


8 ,994 96 


. 


, 


3, 439 6 


9 


15, 115 7 6 


ET- 


Unrealised W . B . 
Grant for Siksha 
Charcha from 1952 
53 to 1955 - 56 
As per last A / c , 
Add : Amount for 
the year 
Unrealised stipend 
and T . A , to 
Trainees for 
Refresher Course 
from W . B . Govt . 
Less : Amount realised . 


9,006 90 
830 13 9 


9, 837 


6 


9 


1 ,590 00 
1 , 590 00 


- 


. 


Nil 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


-- 


- 


- 


6 ,039 70 


388 89 


Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grant for 
quarters - out of 
Loan A c . 
Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grant for 
Natir Puja , . 
Unrealised Central 
Govt. Grapt for 
Development Schemes . 
ADVANCES : Total amt. 
outstanding , . 
Less : Amt. received 
in excess . . . 
Imprests to Depts. 
Suspense (Press ) 
As per last A C. , 


9 ,705 14 6 


1, 00 ,639 15 9 

25 5 0 


- 1,00 ,614 10 9 

3,105 OO 


. 


65 80 


- 
- 


403 


- 


Balance Sheet as a gist March , 1957 


404 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


As. 


Ps. 


R 


As 


Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


As. 


Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


STORES 


36 ,545 S 9 


Maintenance Stores . . 5 , 171 136 
Capital Stores . . 

31,373 8 3 
REFECTORY A /C . 

Fees outstanding 26 , 253 14 0 
Lass : Imrecoverable 
amount . 3 ,691 90 22 ,562 50 
Deficit : As per 
last A / c . . 7,621 129 
Add : During the 
year . . 45,579 14 9 53, 201 11 6 
Stock of Food 
materials . . . 

13 ,330 10 0 
Stock of Publication - 

As per contra , 
Stock of Papers- Santi 
niketan Pitss 
Stock of coal . . . . 
INCOME & EXPENDITURE A /C. 

Deficit for the year 1955 - 56 
as per lest Alc . . 

1,20, 800 8 II 
Less : Recd , from the 

Govt. of India , . . 1, 00 ,000 OO 
Bldgs. (Office , Staff quarters ) Dispensary 
etc. (Palli Samgathana Vibhaga ) 
As per last 

A c . , 3 ,49 ,505 to o 
Less : Depreciation 
& 1. 1/2 % 5,342 9 3 3,44,263 09 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


89 ,094 10 6 


1000 


925 100 
9 , 357 0 


20, 800 8 II 


8 ,37,059 7 9 


PALU SUMQATZANA VORAGA 
Block Value upto 31 - 3 - 56 . 
Lee : Depreciation during 

the your on Block of P . S . 
Vibhaga , 18 ,231 IO 
- do - Silpe 


O 


[PARTII 


Sadana 


5, 175 14 


6 


235407 


8 


6 


. 725 70 


8 , 13 ,651 1 


8 , 13 ,651 15 3 

5 : 150 oC 


3 


Silopit 
As per last Alc. . 

Less : Depre 
ciation 

@ 5 % 


Soc.8(1)] 


Less : Value of Block sold 


, 


8, 08 ,501 15 3 


8,08 ,501 15 


3 


36 40 


689 30 


3 ,44 ,952 39 


Added During the yr. from 
Minor Cap . 
Expenditure . 3, 417 II 0 
Revenue . . 
Expenditure , 

1 , 724 


5 , 141 130 


8 ,13 ,643 12 


3 


Added on A / c of 

C . I . Dev . Scheme 
No, III , . 


39 ,788 


2 


0 


Siksha Charcha fund 

Bldgs. 
Less : Deprecia 

on @ 1. 1/2 % . 


88 ,818 

1, 332 


8 3 
4 3 


87486 40 


22, 856 13 
1, 055 4 


0 
3 


1,098 40 


Siksha - Satra 
Bldg . 
Schm . No . 4D 
(b ) ( 11 ) , 
Improvement 
of Dye House 
Eda . Dev . 
Scheme No. VI 
Dev, of Silpasa . 
dana . . . . . 
Siksha - Charcha 
Extn . . . 


Elec, Installation 
As per last Alc. , 1 , 156 IO 
Less : Depreciation 
@ I 1226 

57 13 0 
Masonry Well 

As per last Alc. 2 ,034 50 
Less : Deprecia 
tion @ II/ 2 % 1 30 80 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


51,845 10 3 


2 , 003 13 


0 


34 . I 


34, 128 I 9 

882 8 3 


1,50,556 76 


9,64 ,200 3 9 

- 


8,322 50 
416 20 


7 ,906 


3 


0 


98 ,494 80 


Furniture & Equip 
ments As per last 
AC. • 
Less : Deprecia 

tion @ 56 
Silpasadana Bldgs . 
and Shed 
As per last Alc . 
Less : Depreciation 

@ 2 12 % 


5 , 175 14 6 


Depreciation Reserve (Silpa - Sadana ) 
UnspentGovt, Grants 

For C . I . Dev . 
Scheme No . III 40 ,000 00 


84, 968 


I 


6 


2 , 124 30 


82 ,843 14 6 


Less : Espdtr. 

transferred to 
Block , 


39,788 20 


211 14 0 


Weaving & Power 
House Shed As 
per last A / c . 


11, 505 II O 


Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1957 


406 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps . 


575 


4 


6 


10 ,930 6 


6 


2 ,243 3 


0 


For Sikshasatra 
Bldgs. Schm . No. 

4D (b ) (II) . 25, 100 Oo 
Less : Espdtí. trans 

ferred to Block 22, 856 13 0 
For Improvement 
of Dye House at 

Silpasadana 4 ,500 OO 
Less : Expdtr, trans 

ferred to Block 1, 055 4 3 


10,927 12 

546 6 


10 ,381 60 


Less ; Depreciation 

@ 506 . 
Pottery Shed As 
per last A /c . . . . . 
Less : Depreciation 

@ 50% - 
Bakery Shed As 

per last A / C 
Less :Depreciation 

@ 50 , 
Tractor Shed As 

per last A / c. . 
Less : Depreciation 


3 ,444 II 9 


4,745 70 


5 ,899 129 


4 ,995 3 0 

249 12 0 
1,209 15 O 

60 8 o 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1, 149 70 


For Edn Dey. Schm . 

No . VI , 58 ,050 oo 
Less : Expdtr . 

transferred to 
Block . . 51 ,845 IO 3 


Carpentry Shed As 
per last Alc . . 
Less : Depreciationis 


. 


, 


28 ,095 8 

1 ,404 12 


0 
0 


26 ,690 120 


6 , 204 59 


Pottery Furnace As per last A /c. . 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 . 


4 ,634 7 0 

231 II 0 


4,402 120 


For Dev , of Silpa 


6 , 518 IO 
325 14 0 


6 ,192 30 


471 14 3 


Industry Dormitory As per last Alc. 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 % 

110470 . 
Coal Storage Shed As per last A c . 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 % . . 
Dyeing Station Shed As per last A c. 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 . 


Less : Expdtr. trans 

ferred to Block , 34 ,128 I 9 
For Social Welfare 

Research . 8 ,000 OO 
Less : Spent during 

the year . : 3,021 I 6 
For Purchase of Equipment of 

Silsha - Satra 
For Area & Feeder Library 
For Initial Expdtr, of Siksha - Satra , 


1,088 120 


1 , 146 IO 

57 50 
8 ,621 OO 
431 I 0 


4, 978 14 


6 


8 , 189 15 0 


сон 


2 
I 
8 


بیا با ما 


[PARTII 


4, 155 II 6 


For Silsha -Charcha 

Bhayana . . 
Less : Expdtr . 

transferred to 
Block . . 


Stc 
. 
8 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


882 83 


3 ,273 3 3 
- 20, 829 14 9 

940 13 0 


Power House Shed as per last Alc . 
Les :Depreciation @ 5 % . 


333 II 0 
16 Io o 


317 


I 


0 


Electric Installation As per last A c. 
Less : Depreciation @ 56 . 


22 ,771 II 0 

1, 138 9 0 


21,633 2 O 


884 4 6 


For Youth Camp, 

as per last A /c . , 
For Adult Edn . as 

per last Alc. , 2 , 567 12 0 
Less : Spent during 

the yr. . 1,683 7 6 
V . B . Goyt. Grant of Apprenticesbip 

Trg . . 
LOAN (PALLI SAMGATHANA VIPAAGA ) 
W . B . Govt , State - aid - Loan . 
Less : Repaid during the year 


11, 130 

556 


8 
8 


0 
0 


10, 574 OO 


5 OD 


22,660 0 3 


Masonry Well as per last Ac. 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 % . 
Power House Water Tank as per 

last Alc. 
Less : Depreciation @ S% : : 
Tank Excayation as per last Alc . . 
Less : Depreciation @ 5 % . 


25 ,000 OO 
5 ,000 0 0 


906 14 


0 


954 90 

47 11 0 
4, 761 2 0 
238 I 0 


20 ,000 OO 


4 ,523 


I 


O 


Loan from Co -operative Societies 

W . Bengal for Improvement of 
Dye House at Silpasadana as per 
last A / c . 

2 ,500 OO 
Less : Repaid dur 

ing yr. . , 2 , 500 00 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
23 
, 
1960 
/ 
MAGHA 
5 
, 
1861 


20 , 000 oo 


Loan for Exta , & 

Improvement of 
Silpasadana As 

perlast A / c 
Less : Repaid dur 

ing yr. , . 


1, 00 , 000 o 


o 


8 ,426 


2 


0 


91,573 14 


O 


Loan from General 

Fund As per last 


Alle 


Less : Repaid duri 33, 504 70 


ing yr . 


. 


33,504 70 


1,11,573 14 u 


LOV 


Balance Sheet as of 31st March , 1957 


408 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs, As, Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps . 


1,735 4 6 

5200 


Donations :-- 
For Leprosy Clinic 

As per last A /c. 3,128 7 é 
Less- Spent dur 

ing y . . . 1,393 30 
For Tiffin to Poor students . . 
Balance of Sundry Accounts " : 

(Palli Samgathana Vibhaga) 
Social Conservation Scheme as per 

last Ac. 
Excess of Stock Palli S . Vibhaga ) 

A / Ć . 
Maintenance Stores 
As per last Alc 
Less -Excess Utilisation during 

the yr . 


1,787 4 6 

Machineries : 
Leather Crafts : 

As per last Alc . 
7 , 297 I 6 Less -Depreciation 56 


2 ,224 II 0 

ΙΙΙ 4 Ο 


2 ,113 7 


0 


234 5 

II II 


O 


222 IO 


d 


292 15 
2 3 


9 
3 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY29,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


2 ,478 12 0 

123 ISO 


2 , 354 13 


0 


Book Binding 

As per last Alc . . 

Less -Depreciation 5 % 
290 12 6 Paper Makiog 

As per last Alc 
3 , 350 13 0 Less-Depreciation 5 % 

771 6 6 
26,679 10 O Carpentry 
5 , 402 2 3 As per last Alc . . 

Less-Depreciation 56 
1,02 , 70 ,778 4 3 

Weay og 

As per last Alc. . 
1, 13 , 151 IO o Less -Depreciation 5 % 


Advance P . S . V .) 
Suspense (P . S . V .) 
Deposit (P . S . V .) . 
Sundry Creditors (P . S. V .) 
INCOME & EXPENDITURE A / C , 
Excess of Income over Expendi 

ture . . . . . 
Less-Deficit upto 1954 -55 


28 ,576 13 0 
1 , 143 I O 


27-433 12 


0 


1, 27, 938 91 

14 ,786 15 I 


10,632 100 

531 IO O 


10 , 101 OO 


Pottery 

As per last Alc . . 
| Less -Depreciation 56 


. 


( 2,703 80 

135 30 


2 , 568 so 
44,793 ISO 


Bakery 
As per last Ac. 
Less - Depreciation 
5 % . 


( 1.355 9 0 

67 120 


1,287 13 


0 


[PARTII 


Sra.8(ii)] 


( 1,335 15 


0 


Porer Loom 
As per last Alc . . 1 ,406 40 
Less - Depreciation 
5 % . . 

70 50 
Women Handicrafts 
As per last A /c. 183 OO 
Less -Depreciation 
56 . , . 9 2 O 
Gas Plant (from Minor Capital 

Revenue Expenses) . 
Power House 
As per last Alc. . 8 ,909 14 O 
Less - Sold during 
year 

4 ,875 DO 


173 14 


O 


( 1,516 13 


O 


4 ,034 14 O 
201 120 


13,833 


2 


0 


Less - Depreciation 

5 % : 
Tailoring 

As per last Alc, 
Less- Depreciation 
5 % . . . 


546 80 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA9,1881 


27 50 


519 30 
53,460 II O 


Dyeing Station 

As per last Alc . . 
Less -Depreciation 
5 % . . . 


516 8 
25 13 


o 
0 


490 II O 


153 ,951 6 


Audio - Visual Equip 
ment 
As per last Alc . . . 
Less- Depreciation 5 % 


( 14 , 748 3 O 

737 60 


( 14,010 13 0 


Motor Bus 

As per last A /C. 
Less -Depreciation 5 % 


2 ,831 II 0 
141 90 


. 


. 


2, 690 20 


Balance Sheet As a 31st March , 1957 


LIO 


INS 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As, Ps. 


La 


Furniture, Equipment & Accessories 

As per last A / c . 
Transferred from Typewriter head 
As per last Alc. 
Transferred from Furniture Trog. 
Sec , As. per lasc Alc. . 
Transferred from Tools & Implements 
Trg . Sec . As per last Alc . . 


1 40 ,707 14 0 

582 4 0 
417 15 6 

417 15 6 
42, 126 10 

275 O o 


Less -Sale of Typewriter during the 
year 


41,851 I O 
2 ,092 90 


Less -Depreciation 5 % . 
Added during the year (from Minor 

Capitai ) . 
Added during the year ( from Rev . 

C . I, Trg ) . . . . 
Laboratory As per last A / c. . . 

Less -Depreciation 5 % , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1,900 14 0 
1 ,724 20 


43, 383 80 


589 70 
297 


560 DO 


595 4 
29 12 


0 
0 


Library & Museum - As per last 

Alé . Less -Depreciation 5 % . 
Land Development- As per last A / C 
Dairy Poultry Dev . - As per last 
Alc . . 
Less -Depreciation 5 % , . 


565 80 
1,537 3 3 


SAS 


- 


3 ,927 IO O 

196 60 


3 , 731 40 


V 


295 OO 


Farm Development As per last A /c. 
Improvement of Dye House at Sulpa- Sadana - 
Dying Equipment and Masonry Work 
As per last Alc . . . 

322 8 3 


[PARTII 


Added during the Year , 


e 


243 II 0 


SEC.3(ii)] 


1 .055 


4 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


573 3 3 
Salary of Expert 
As pe last A /c . . 

236 OO 
Contingency including Factory 
incidental exp . during the year 

246 IO 
COTTAGE INDUSTRY DEY , SCHEME No. II. ; 
Work Shed 

As per last Alc . 8,337 9 3 
Less - Deprecia 
tion 11 

125 I 8 ,212 8 3 
Touls and Imple 

ments 
As per last Alc. 6, 487 I 9 
Less-Deprecia 
tion 56 . 

324 5 9 6, 162 12 O 
Looms and accessories 
As per last A / c. 4 , 408 II 3 
Less - Depreciation 

5 6 . . 220 69 4 , 188 46 
Machineries 

As per las! A c. 8 ,845 76 
Less - Depreciation 

. . 142 4 6 8, 403 3 O 
Water Pipe Line 
. As per last A /c . . 1,670 130 
Less -Depreciation 

5 % . . 83 80 1, 587 5 0 
Deep Well Pump 

As per last A / c . 1, 390 13 0 
Less Depreciation 
e 570 

. 55 10 0 1.335 30 
Over Head Tank 

As per last A / c . . 1, 159 70 
Less -Depreciation 
576 

46 6 0 1, 113 I O 


LIXX 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


5 . 6 


411 


Balance Sheet as a 


31st March , 1957 


IV 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. . Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


847 56 
42 56 


5 % 


805 OO 


31,807 4 9 


Electrification 

As per last A /C . 
Less -Depreciation 

. 
Siksha - Satra Multilateral 
Secondary Schcol Fur 
niture & Equipment 
As per last Alc . 
Less Depreciation 5 % 


19 ,000 0 0 
95000 1 8050 00 


18 ,050 OO 


Development of Silpasadana : 
Timber ar. d Textile go 
down shed and Timher 
shed godown 

As per last A / c 16 , 406 14 
Added during the year 422 7 


3 
0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


16 ,829 


5 


3 


34 ,128 12 


Land Rover Jeep 
As per last Alc. . 

17 ,298 12 6 
EDUCATION DEV , SCHEME No, VI 
Hostel, Furniture etc. 
As per last A c . 

17, 743 26 
Added during the year 6 ,416 6 O 24 , 159 8 6 
Jeep Car 
As per last A / c 

13,729 36 
Acquisition of land for extens, of sites 
As per last A / c. 

5,103 2 6 
Audio - Visual Equipment with Generator 

set 
As per last A / C 

3, 604 59 
Addl . Book Equipment. Library 
Furniture fcr Head Quarter 
As per last A / C 

3 ,999 60 
Agricultural Pump 
As per last A / C 

1,250 OO 


[PartII 


51, 845 10 


3 


22,856 13 


0 


Schemc No . 4D ( ID) 
Siksha -Satra Buildings 

As per last A / c 
Siksha Satra - Initial Expenses : 
Machinery 
As per last A / c. 

435 3 0 
Less - Deprecia 
tion 5 % 

21 12 O 


SIG.8()] 


413 70 


513 60 
25 100 


487 12 0 


901 3 0 


Stage Equipment 

Furniture 
As per last A / c . 
Less-Deprecia 

tion 5 % 
Siksha - Satra Equip 
ment out ofGrant 

As per last A /c . 
Loss Deprecia 

tion 5 % 


199 13 9 
10 OO 


189 13 9 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


8 ,526 


C . I, DEY . SCHEMENO, III 
Weaving Centre at 
Surul Workshop 

As per last A / c . 5 , 539 90 
Tools and Implements 

As per last A / S 2 ,328 II 0 
Furniture 

As per last A /c. 657 13 0 
Weaving Centre at 

Karidhya 
Tools & Implements 

As per last A c . 1,749 50 
Furniture 

As per last Ac. 663 20 
Workshop at Bhu 

bandanga for 
Women Workers 
Workshop 

As per last A / c. 5 , 492 2 O 


I O 


2 ,412 70 


413 


- 


Bulance Sheet as at 31stMarch , 1957 


414 


LIABILITI 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


ASSETS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Furniture 

As per last A c . 


509 00 


6 .001 2 


0 


16 , 939 100 


4 ,672 00 


Smithy & Carpentry 
at Laldaha Work 
shop 

As per last Auc . 
Tools & Implements 

As per last A / c . 
Tools & Implements 
for Smithy 

As per last Ac. 
Furtuture 

As per last Ac. 


1, 010 26 


523 90 
4600 


6 ,665 II 6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1,000 16 


Carpentry at Adityapur 
Tools & Implements 

As per last A /c . 
Carpentry at Goalpara 
Tools & Implemeats 

As per last A c . 
Veaving Centre at 

Illambazar 
Workshop 

As per lest Ac 3 ,690 90 
Added dunng the 
year 

16 2 0 


1, 000 1 6 


3, 706 II 0 


alo 


29,312 36 


Furquture & Acces 
sories 

As per last A ,c . 
Added during the 

year . . 


1. 370 3 0 

48 12 O 


1418 15 0 


[PARTH 


Sæ,&(L)] 


Weaving Centre at 
Bogdowia Work 
shed 

As per last A / c . 
Added during the 

year . 
Furniture & A ces 
sories 

As per last Alc. 


3,741 40 
109 8 0 


3,850 12 O 
866 10 


4 , 716 13 0 


35,447 15 6 
775 O o 


1, 075 00 

968 36 
1,095 15 0 
426 Oo 


- 


39,788 2 


Organisation of Village Centres 

As per last A /c . 
Supervision of Construction of 
Workshop 

As per last A /c . , . 
Setting of Looms 

As per last Alc . . . . 
Travelling 

As per last Alc. 
Contingency 

As per “ last A /c. 
Library Service Scheme 
Area Library - Equipment 

As per last A / c 1 , 197 00 
Less Depreciation 
56 

- 59 13 6 
- do - Furniture 

As per last A /c . 1, 890 3 6 
Les Depreciation 

94 80 
Feeder Library 
Furniture 

As per last Alc. 2 ,004 II 6 
Less Depreciation 

100 36 
Unrealised Grants 

from W . B .Govt . 
Library Service Scheme 

As per last A / c . , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY29,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1 , 137 


2 


6 


520 


1,795 II 6 


- 


1 , 904 80 


4, 837 60 


1 ,583 


9 


9 


Balance Sheet as at31st March , 1957 


416 


LIABILITILS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Rs. As. Ps. 


4,828 00 
4 ,500 OO 


10 ,911 99 


9 ,416 10 
2 , 376 5 


novo 


72 0 


Rs. As. Ps. 

ASSETS 
Siksha - Satra Maintenance 

Grant ( 56 -57) . 
Audio - Visual Maintenance 

Grant ( 56 -57 ) 
Visva -Bharati Society 

As per last A / c . 
Advance 
Imprest to Departm 

monts 
Sundry Debtor : Total Amount 

Less : Balance at credit 
STOCKS 

Live Stock 
Stock of Stores (General) : 
Stock of Stores ( C . I, Dey & 
Exto ) 
Maintenance Stores (Upkeep ) 
SILPA - SADANA 

Loss as per last A / C 
Lese - profit for the year 


12 ,752 99 

336 3 6 


12 ,416 6 


3 


16 ,157 OO 
16 , 323 14 3 
1 , 16 ,763 70 

460 15 o 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


1,49 , 705 4 3 


65 , 026 IO I 
6 ,966 5 6 


6 


58 , 060 


4 


7 


+ 


96 ,893 8 4 
9 , 87 , 438 II 2 

2 , 181 99 


BANK BALANCES 
State Bank of India , Bolpur Branch 
State Bank of India , Calcat H / O . 
State Bank of India , Shambazar Branch 
State Bank of India , A /c. No. 2 , 

Calcutta , H / O . 
United Bank of India Ltd . . 

Bolpur Branch 
United Bank of India , Dharma 

tollah Branch 
United Bank of India , P . S . V . 

A / c. Bolpur Branch . . 
1 ,03,13, 929 14 3 


1,35 , 999 OO 
21, 282 12 0 
2 ,326 13 II 
706 I 3 
TOTAL . 


12 ,46 ,828 8 5 


TOTAL 


(PARTII 


: 


1,03,83,929 14 3 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT 


Balance Sheet as at 3151 March , 1957 


Seg.8(11)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


A . P . 


Rs. 


A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


COPYRIGHT 


ADVANCE FROM GENERALOFFICE( 1950) 

As per last A / c . 
Lost Paid during the year 


20 ,000 0 

2 ,500 0 


0 


17 , 500 0 . 0 


As per last A / c . 
Added during the period 


. 


23 , 190 00 
3 , 110 O o 


26 , 300 00 


CAPITAL (BUILDING ) FUND 
By revaluation of Building 

Santiniketan on 31 - 5 - 51 . 


at 


8 ,266 13 6 


BUILDING AT SANTINIKETAN 

As per last A /c . . 
Cost Price , , 

By revaluation . 
FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT 


9 , 083 26 
8 ,266 13 6 


17 ,350 00 


LLABILITIES 
Establishments : Office charges 

and Sundry Bills 
Sale Proceeds and Rogalty 
Sales Tax 


25 ,709 55 
13 , 384 I - 9 
4 , 879 14 0 


As per last a c . 
· Added during the period 


27 , 475 14 6 

4 , 118 15 6 


31,594 14 0 


Il 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


BLOCKS 


43 ,973 5 2 
1,314 4 9 


Last year s Carry Over 


. 


45 , 287 9 II 


As per last A / c . 
Added during the period 


27 ,711 II 6 

1,489 8 3 


29 ,201 39 


MOTOR VEHICLES 

As per last A / c . 


. 


. 


. 


15 ,151 15 


0 


15, 151 15 


O 


DEPOSIT 

Sundries 
Sale proceeds of Mahatma 

Gandhi , 
Hindi Deposit . 


11, 791 13 6 

82 7 6 
14 96 


11 , 888 14 6 


LIBRARY BOOKS 

As per last Alc . . 
Added during the period 


5 , 459 9 3 
240 99 


5, 700 30 


39, 513 12 3 


DEPRECIATION FUND 

As per Last A /c . . 
Add : Depreciation charged 

during the year . . 
Add : Interest on Investment . 


STOCK FN TRADE 
Books 

рег 
Binding Materials 
Purchased books & Photos etc . 


7 ,488 II 0 

518 8 0 


3 , 99 , 990 7 0 
39 ,274 4 6 

1 ,236 14 0 
4 , 781 60 


47 , 520 15 3 


4 ,45,282 15 6 


417 


Balance Sheet as at 31st March , 1957 


418 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. 


A 


P . 


DEPRECLATION FUND INVESTMENT 

United Bank of India , College St. 


PROFIT & Loss Alc 
(Accumulated balance of assets 
over liabilities ) 
As per last A /c . 
4d1 : Appropranon to last 

year s account . 


13, 544 100 
10,829 4 o 
15 ,094 8 0 


. 


39,468 6 0 


- 


6 ,83,169 69 

4 00 
6 ,83 ,173 69 

672 01 
6 ,82,501 6 8 


Luss - Appropriation to 

year s account 


last 


( Savings A /c .) 
3 G .P . Notes ( 1970 - 75 ) Face 

Value Rs. 12 , 500 / - at cost 

4 % West Bengal Loan (1967 ) 
SUNDRY DEPOSIT , ADVANCE & 

PREPAID EXPENSES 
Deposit with Calcutta Electric 
Supply Corporation 
Sundry Debtors (Sale of books) 
Interest receivable 

Sundry Advance 
Prepaid exp . (Fire Insurance and 

Advertisement ) 
Imprest 
Suspense 


Add : Amount of Nett Income 
for the year . . 


41,587 13 
7 .24,089 4 
17 ,981 2 


5 

1 
3 


10000 
25 , 208 29 

562 14 3 
4, 057 26 
2 ,064 11 0 
117 7 3 
92 70 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGĦA%,1881 


LESS - Contr. to General Office , 


7 ,06 , 108 


I IO 


32,202 12 9 
1,35, 999 OO 


DEPOSIT WITH ARTHA - SACHIVA 


1, 35, 99900 


CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND 

State Bank of India , Calcutta . 
United Bank of India , College St, 
United Bank of India , Bolpur 
Pioneer Bank (in liquidation ) , 

Bolpur , 
Calcutta Commercial Bank in 

( liquidation ) 


19,832 8 10 
25 ,614 78 

882 126 


323 09 

SIO IO 6 
47 , 163 8 3 
8 ,874 89 


[Part4 


Cash / Cheques in hand 


, 


56 ,038 


I 


- 


- 


- 


VISTA- BHARATI PATRIKA 
Balance Sheet as at 31st Alarch , 1957 


Sec.8(11)] 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs A . P. 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. A . P. 
1,908 0 

15 00 


Outstanding Advertisement 
Outstanding Subscription 
Adrance , 


Sundry Liabilities , , 
Last year s Carry Over . 
Sundry Deposits . . 
Subscription in Advance 
Adiance from General Section 


1 , 923 11 

72 13 
490 8 


0 
9 
0 


Rs. A . P . 
3 , 149 OO 

26 8 0 
15 o o 

17 15 3 
2 ,209 20 


. 
: 


2 ,989 14 


0 


Imprest 
Stock as on 31-3-1957 . 
United Bank of India , College St 

Ac. Patrika 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JA 


6 ,607 39 
12,024 13 0 


ProFIT & Loss Aic, 
As per last Alc . 
Jjd : Appropriation to last year s 

profit 


3, 315 5 3 

20 OO 


d. 


Add : Nett Profit transferred 

from Profit and Loss A / c . . 


3 ,335 5 3 
929 90 


4 ,264 14 
9 ,741 13 


3 
0 


25, 


8 ,46 ,314 


4 


0 


8 ,46 , 314 


4 


0 


PROVIDENT FUND 
Balance Sheet as 31st March , 1957 
LIABILITIES 
Rs. A P . Rs. A P . 


ASSETS 

Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


Members Fund Account 

As per last A /c. 
Add : Subscription during 


7 ,35 ,089 14 


0 


the 


Advance to Members . 
As per last A / C 
Added during the period 


. 
. 


, , period 


45,649 60 
44 ,264 OO 
89 ,913 6 0 
38 ,744 70 


Add : Visva - Bharati 

Contribution 
Add : Transfer from 

Profit & 
Loss Als 


68,733 20 


. 


51, 168 15 0 


28 ,519 90 


1,64, 949 50 
9,00 , 039 3 0 


10 ,978 4 


0 


Less withdrawals 

& Refund 
Less Transferred 

to Deposit 


2 ,983 II O 
3, 930 126 


Lass realised during the period 
Investment at Cost 
As per last Afc . 
Fixed Deposit with V . 
B . Central Cooperative 

Bank Ltd . . 
3 . 114 % New Howrah Bridge 

Loan (Face Valge 

7 , 500 ) . . . . 
3 % G .P .Notes (Face 

value 2 ,00 ,400 ) . . 
31 % Ten years 
Treasury Savings 
Dep . Certificate 
(Face Value 50 ,000 ) . 


. 


7, 556 13 


0 


1,450 10 


0 


= 


8 ,365 I 6 


8 , 91,674 


J 


6 


1 ,98,819 


I JI 


Transferred to 

Lapse Fund 
Deposit Account 

As per last A / c . 
Added during 
the period 


14,813 63 


. 


50 , 000 OO 
2,67 ,354 2 II 


A:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


3 ,930 12 6 


18 ,744 29 


AL 


Less Paid during 

the period 
Less Transferred 

to Lapse Fund 


9 ,442 1 
885 15 


9 
3 


10 ,328 I o 


8 ,416 


1 


9 


528 50 


. 


Lapse Fund Account 

As per last Alc . 
Added transfer from 

Members Fund 1 ,450 IO O 
Added transfer 

from Deposit 885 15 3 


4 % Gort, of W . Bengal Loan 
( Face Value 

3 , 95 , 000 ) 
Added during the period 
4 % Govt. of W . 
Bengal Loan 


3, 96 ,756 4 


0 


2,336 9 


3 


PARTTI 


2 ,684 14 3 

528 5o 


(Face Value) 

1 ,30 , 000 ) 


1 ,29 ,617 3 


0 


2 ,336 


9 


3 


5 ,26, 373 7 0 
7, 93 ,727 9 II 


Less refunded to 

the University 
Reserve Fund for 

unrealised amount 
with Pioneer Bank 
Ltd . (in liquidation ) 
Profit & Loss Account 


Sec.8(11)] 


1,600 Oo 


Suspense AC 
As per last Alc . 
( D : D on Pioneer Bank of India 

( in liquidation ) 
Added during the period 


2 , 000 O 


o 


1 , 158 II 6 


As per last A / c . 
Ad : Profit during 

the year 


236 4 2 
29 ,012 5 6 
29 ,248 98 


2 , 758 II 6 
1, 158 II 6 


1 ,600 00 


Less during the period . . 
Bank Balances 
Pioneer Bank Ltd ,, in liquidation 
State Bank of India , Bolpur . 
State Bank of India , Calcutta 


Less transferred to 
Members Fund on 
account of Profit 
for 1956 - 57 


321 96 
7 ,217 II 0 
51,119 15 9 


58 ,659 4 3 


28, 519 90 


7 29 8 


9 , 05 , 155 13 2 


9, 05, 155 13 2 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


421 


Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956- 57 


422 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


coeral Office 


ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS 


CADEMIC DEPARTMENTS 
Academic General 
Vidya -Bhayana 
Chcena -Bhavana 
Hindi- Bharana 
Siksha - Bhayana 
Vinaya - Bhavada 
Kala - Bhavana . 
Sangit- Bhavana 
Patha -Bhavana 
Kindergarten & Nursery 

School 
Siksha- Charcha 
Srec - Sadana 
Publications 
Physical Education , 
Museum 
Library 


52 , 908 10 
1,72 ,818 44 
54 , 879 IO 
20 , 104 2 
64 ,538 15 
44,637 13 
57 , 654 9 
67, 152 2 
1 ,07 , 123 8 


- 


aoovaonovaommaon 


Academic General 
Vidya -Bhavana 
Cheena - Bhavana 
Hindi -Bhayana 
Siksha - Bhayana 
Vinaya- Bhavana 
Kala - Bhayana 
Sangit - Bhayana 
Patha - Bhayana 
Kindergarten & Nursery School . 
Siksha - Charcha 
Sree Sadana , 
Publications 
Physical Education . 
Museum 
Library 


22 , 396 156 
58 ,470 7 6 

357 0 
5 , 359 8 
24 ,855 8 
13, 427 5 
26 ,917 12 
13 , 977 12 0 
76 ,367 8 
38 ,016 8 


00000000OOOona 


1 , 440 00 
39,567 I 
11,278 10 
33, 163 3 
11, 545 39 
17 ,082 1 0 
48, 926 16 


10 ,721 II 
3 ,506 13 

45 11 
1,677 3 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
23 
, 
1960 
/ 
MAGHA 
3 
, 
1881 


2, 96 ,097 11 6 


8,04, 820 12 O 
2,37 ,907 9 2 


Central Administration 


, 


Central Administration 


. 


. 


74, 933 14 


3 


VORKS & ESTATE MANTENANCE 


WORKS & ESTATE MAINTENANCE 


Works & Buildings 
Electricity & Water Supply 
Garden 
Watch & Ward 


1 ,06, 995 13 9 
95 , 467 76 
10 ,475 90 
11 ,595 IO 


Works & Buildings 
Electricity & Water Supply 
Garden , 
Watch & Ward 


27, 997 6 3 
14 , 332 12 0 

121 30 
848 II 


2 ,24 ,533 15 


3 


43 ,300 


O 


3 


OTHER MINOR DEPARTMENTS 

Hospital 
Sanitation 
Guest House 
Santiniketan Press 
Telephone Section 


48 ,119 90 
12 , 391 8 9 
13,650 15 6 
40 ,691 60 
3 , 974 I 3 


OTHER MINOR DEPARTMENTS 

Hospital 
Sanitation 
Guest House 

Santiniketan Press 
6 Telephone Section . 


19 , 661 I 0 

450 00 

4 , 248 8 0 
- 38 ,242 2 3 


[ 
PART 
I 


1, 18 ,827 8 


62,601 II 3 


Value of I. P . O . Written off 
Provision for Depreciation Fund 


I1, 14 , 000 


40, 000 


7 , 088 


25 O RECURRING GRANTS 
50, 000 0 0 Govt . of India . 

Govt. of West Bengal 
14 , 36 , 114 12 II Govt of Orissa 
12 , 746 96 Govt . of Assam 

Govt. of Uttar Pradesh 
14, 48 , 861 6 5 
9 ,610 15 9 

DONATIONS 


SEC.3(ii)] 


Add : This years unpaid Liabilities 


2 , 000 


1 ,000 00 


11,64,088 00 


Less : Previous years unpaid Liabilities 


Opening Stock ( Santiniketan Press ) 


14 , 39, 250 6 

850 II 


8 
6 


Hindusthan Charity Trust 
Miscellaneous Parties . 


12 , 000 00 

385 0 0 


12, 385 0 0 
50,000 0 0 


Receipt from Visya - Bharati Society 
Add : This year s outstandings : 

(a ) Students Fees 18 , 375 8 0 
O Misc . demands 2, 681 7 3 
c ) Sant. Press B11 8 ,994 96 
d ) Publishing Dept. . 

Sale proceeds of 
Publication 3,439 6 9 


33,490 15 


6 


Less : Previous year s outstandings : 

(a ) Students fees 18 ,058 o o 
6 ) Misc . demands 2 ,693 90 
(c ) Sant. Press Bill 7 ,742 12 0 

d Publishig Dept. 
Sale preceeds of 
Publication : 3 ,586 80 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


32,080 13 0 


1,410 26 


W . B . Govt . Grant for Siksha- Charcha unrealised 
Closing Stock of paper (Santiniketan Press ) 


830 13 9 
925 IO O 


alova 


17, 06 , 572 15 6 


LOAN A / C . 
Repayment of Loan and other charges 


10, 839 70 


LOAN A / C . 
Rent from Staff Quarters con 

s ructed out of loan . 
Grant receivable from University 
Grants Commission being excess 

expenditure 


4 , 800 Oo 


6 , 039 7 


0 


10,839 70 


423 


Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956 - 57 . 


424 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs. 


A 


Pj 


Rs. 


A . 


P . 


Rs. A . P . 


Pall Samgathan Vibhaga Sriniketan 


GROUP " A " - ACADEMIC DERARTMENT 
1. SIKSHA - SATRA 


GROUP " A " - ACADEZLIC DEPARTMENTS 

I , SIKSHA -SATRA 


12 ,204 13 3 

899 40 
2, 812 14 
665 Oo 
400 00 
118 0 


Fees & Contr. from students . 
Misc . Income from Produc ive 

artides . . . 
Seat Rent & Light charges 
Fooding charges for students . 
W . B . Govt. maintenance grant . 
do. receivable for 1956 - 57 


2,415 15 3 
147 5 6 
641 0 0 
124 50 
5 , 000 00 
4 ,828 00 


Establishment , . . . 
P . F . Contribution . 
Fooding charges for students . 
Light charges and cont. to 

Health Sec. 
Crafts materials and training , 
Agriculture , Poultry & Fishery . 
Books, appliances and Science 

materials etc . 
Stationery and Printing . 
Games and outing . 
Contingency . . 
Dearness allowance . 
Equipments . 


13, 156 


9 


9 


III 
129 3 
688 11 6 

Io6 76 
5 ,039 00 

21 8 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


23 , 195 


I 


9 


2 . LORE - SIKHSA 


2 . LOKE- SIKASA 


Fees 


4 ,020 00 
335 40 
179 15 0 


Establishment 
Contr . to P . F . 
Books for Centre 
Papersetting and Exam . fee 
Stationery & Printing 
Postage & Telegram . 
Travelling . 
Contingency 
Dearness allowance . 
Opening Stock 


OOOWOwn 


Sale of Literature 
Sale of Books . 
Postage : 
Miscellaneous 
Closing Stock 


0000000000 


3 , 701 96 
174 14 0 
131 3 
II6 9 3 

3 10 
1 ,015 0 


619 3 


oowoon 


5 , 142 13 


9 


1, 140 00 
1 ,750 00 


9 , 327 6 


6 


3 . LIBRARY 
Establishment 
P . F . cont. 
Books . 
Newspaper & Magazines . 
Binding 


3 . LIBRARY 
Sale of Old newspaper 
Miscellaneous receipt 


II 13 0 
19 8 0 


- 31 so 


1 ,800 
150 00 
196 13 0 
196 3 0 
311 14 0 


[PARTII 


- 


Contingency 
Dearness allowance 
Allowance - 


60 50 
699 99 
55 00 


Sec,9() 


3,469 12 9 


4 . LIBRARY SERVICE SCHEME 


4 . LIBRARY SERVICE SCHEME 
(Sponsored by W . B . Govt. ) 
West Bengal Govt .Grunt . 


1 ,384 II 0 


1 , 384 11 0 


( Sponsored by W . B . Govt.) 
Establishment . . 
Contingency . . 
Dearness allowance 


948 OO 
40 110 
360 - 0 o 


1 ,348 II 


0 


S . COTTAGE INDUSTRY 

TRAINING SECTION 


5 . COTTAGE INDUSTRY 

TRAINING SECTION 


163 8 0 
2 ,019 8 o 
3 ,063 126 

553 8 0 
207 8 
264 


Extablishment 
Allowance 
P . F . contr. 

. 
Telephone : 
Stipend 
Raw materials . 
Equipments . 
Books and News paper 
Commission : 
Medical fee and Medicine contr. 
Light charges . 
Repairs & Replacement . 
Games & Social activities , 
Fuels & Furnace . - . 
Travelling . 
Confr , to Upkeep for maintenance 
Stationery & Printing 
Contingency , 
do. Allowance 
Labour 
Forwarding . 
Rebate . 
Opening Stock 


Admission Fee 
Fees from Trainees . 
Sale Proceeds 
Seat Rent and Medical fee 
Light 

. . 
Miscellaneous . . 
CenI. from Satra for Raw 

materials 
- Esamination fee . 
Annual fee for games and Library 
W . B . Gort Grant . 
Closing Stock 


400 


35 ,671 0 

896 10 
2 ,527 3 

270 0 
3 ,942 0 
2 ,491 10 
2 ,618 7 
102 14 
64 10 
248 14 
1 , 168 II 
203 4 
790 
166 13 
477 8 
1 , 000 0 0 

133 14 6 

400 14 . 3 
10 ,248 2 

571 12 0 

ΙΙ ο 
246 3 0 
4 , 716 7 9 


LOOOOwaongoonaawowooon 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


336 00 

63 00 
13 , 20000 
4 , 383 II 6 


24 , 654 12 6 


68 ,246 15 6 


425 


Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956 - 57 . 


426 


EXPLNDITORE 


INCOME 


6 . COTTAGE INDUSTRY 
WORKSHOP TRAINING 


Rs. A . 


P . 


Rs. A . P . 


5 . COTTAGE INDUSTRY 
WORKSHOP TRAINING 


Rs. A . P. 


Rs. A . P . 


Sale Proceeds 
Miscellaneous 
Closing Stock 


3 ,673 4 6 

167 13 0 
8 , 138 13 0 


11,979 11 6 


15 , 907 II 9 
1,242 0 0 
4 , 137 8 0 
1 ,325 00 
986 03 
216 


3 ,677 


ONO 
NONUMNO 


Lounaonaoowooo 


96 5 
185 3 
309 2 6 
9 , 976 80 


Establishment 
P . F . contribution , 
Dearness allowance . 
Raw Materials 
Tools & Imple neats 
Repairs & Replacement 
Power & Filel 
Stipend & Labour 
Contingency 
Stationery & Printing 
Trav. & Excursion , 
Commission . . 
Rebate 

Opening Stock 
Group B - General 

Administration and 

Estate Maintenance 
I . GENERAL 
Establishment 
P . F . contribution . . 
Anniversary & Festival 
Guest entertainment 
Contr. to Srk , Club . 
Telephone Rent 

( Trunkcalls) 
Other allowance 
Exhibition , Posters , Charts , etc , 
Electric charges 
Stationery and Printing 
Postage and Telegram . 
Travelling . . 
Coningency 
D . Allowance 
Folk recreational and other 
zcovities . 

. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


14 ,331 I 0 

I , 100 13 0 
2 , 935 14 
293 13 9 
300 00 


268 II 0 
IOI 30 
523 10 0 

4 0 0 


33 ,205 4 9 

Group B - General 

Administration and 
Estate Maintenance 
I . GENERAL 
Sale of Literature 
Telephone Trunk calls . . 
Stall Rent, Donation , Grants etc , 
Electric charges . . . 
Miscellaneous 
W . B . Gort. grant from Civil 

Surgeon , Suri , 
- do - from NES Block , Bolpur - Srk 
- do - from Agri- Officer , Suri (55 - 56 ) 
- do - from -do - 66-57) } 
- do from Director of 

Industries . . 
- do -Grant for folk recreational 

activities . . 


هوبيمهووبیابیاببوو 


410 14 
60 00 
554 8 
1,170 5 
631 5 
315 14 
817 1 6 

317 12 6 
4 ,272 7 9 
1,000 oo 


100 00 
150 00 
260 Oo 


250 OO 
1 ,000 OO 


[PART1]. 


2 ,668 


8 


0 


28 ,541 15 


0 


2 . GENERAL - DM - OFFICE 
Establishment 
P . F . contributing , 
Deardess all wance 


7 , 326 9 9 

553 50 
2 ,941 13 3 


11 , 321 120 


SEC,8(ii)] 


3 . WORKS & ESTATE MUINTENANCE 


3 . WORKS & ESTATE MAINTENANCE 


6 , 502 09 

436 10 0 
6 , 762 4 6 


928 100 
231 23 


Establishmani 
P , F , contribution . . 
Maintenance of Estate , 
Maintenance of Santi & Srinikctan 

Road 
Other allowance . 
Road Repa . r3 ane General 

Cicaning at Sriniketan . 
Sawtation : 
Watch & Ward . 
Repairs in Replacemenis 
Coningency , . 
Dearness alinance 
Garlen 
Minor Capital Expen liture 


House Rent 
Union Board Grant . 
Income from Santalpalli Land . 
Contr. for night watch from 

V . B . C . C . Bank Ltd . . . 
Miscellaneous . 
Contr, from Upkeep of Buildings 

from C . I, Training 


5, 753 8 0 
300 
249 12 0 
100 Oo 

52 8 0 
1,000 Oo 


7 ,455 12 0 


982 2 0 
14 . 40 

87 9 3 
177 3 

79 7 6 
7 ,555 06 

37 IS 
3 -417 II 0 


24,35900 


4 . TRANSPORT SECTION 

Bus Fare and Fuel 
Miscellaneous : 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


. 
• 


. 


7,258 


3 


15 


4. TRANSPORT SECTION 

Establishment . 
P . F . contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Fuel and Lubricant 
Licence and Insurance . 
Repairs and Replacement 
Contingency 


7, 273 30 


2 ,499 

173 7 
1 ,38000 
4 ,384 0 0 
1,611 4 0 
1, 590 II 9 
156 10 о 


0000000 


11,795 9 3 


5 . POWER HOUSE 

Sale of Electric Energy , 
Repairs work 
Closing Stock . . 


4, 767 3 

717 8 
910 12 


9 
0 
6 


. 


6 ,395 83 


S . PJWER HOUSE 

Establishment 
P . F . contribution , 
Dearness allowince 
Purchase of Electric Energy 
Materials 
R pairs nd Replacements 
Contingency 
Opening Stock - 


1 , 775 00 

131 15 
960 00 
4,531 15 0 
415 13 
137 6 6 

29 130 
1 ,059 26 


9 , 041 I 


0 


427 


Income & Expenditude Accote for the year 1956- 57 


428 


1. 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. A 


6 . BAKERY 

Establishment 
P . F . contribution 
Dearness allowance 


Rs. A P . 
340 00 

7 I 0 
163 OO 


P . 6 . BAKERY 

Sales 


Rs. A . P . 


Rs. A . P . 
Oo6 


, 


, 


, 


, 


507 Io 


GROUP C -- SOCIAL WORK & VILL , : EXTN . 


- 


- 


-- 


I. HEALTH & SANITATION GENERAL 

Establishment 
P . F . contribution 
Medicine 
Travelling allowance 
Contingency . 
Dearness allowance 
Opening Stock . 


5 , 106 

413 
1, 918 

10 2 
157 8 
1, 6200 


otoNOOO OOmonal 


GROUP C - SOCIAL WORK & VILL. EXTN . 
1. HEALTH & SANTATION GENERAL 

Contr. from Vinayabhavana 
Contr. from Siksha Charcha . 
Contr . from Siksha Satra 
Contr . from C . I . Training 
Medical fee 

Sale of Medicine . 
10, 163 89 Closing Stock 


300 00 
720 o 0 
240 00 

240 OO 
1 , 192 OO 
1 ,817 15 3 
860 8 3 


938 


I 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA$.1881 


5 , 370 


7 


6 


2 . AGRICULTURE 
(a ) EXPERIMENTS 

Sale of Paddy , 
W , B . Govt Grant . 


5 ,040 

367 
2 , 280 


0 
8 
0 


137 13 3 
3 , 000 0 0 


3 , 137 13 


3 


2 . AGRICULTURE 

( a ) EXPERIMENTS 
Establishment 
P . F . contribution 
Deamness allowance 
Paddy Verietal Trial . 
Paddy Manurial Trial . 
Repairs and Replacements 
Travelling . . 
Contingency 
Other allowance , 


629 


180 


Tonooooo 


46 14 0 
149 8 6 
60 00 


8 ,763 


2 


9 


( ) DEMONSTRATION & EXTENSION 
Garden Crops . 
Paddy cultivation 
Orchard and Nursery 
Land Development . 
Fodder Cultivation . 
Fishery 
Extension work in village 


(6 ) DEMONSTRATION & EXTENSION 
Garden Crops . 
Paddy 
Orchard & Nursery 
Fodder 
Fishery . . . . 


791 IS 6 
1 ,450 TO 3 

377 14 3 
272 7 
1 ,62 I 0 
146 13 
70 140 


seny 


1, 973 96 
3 , 550 2 0 

430 13 3 
1 ,632 13 6 
49 50 


1 ,636 II 


3 


[PARTII 


4 , 734 II 


6 


42,663 14 

424 12 
477 9 
216 2 


(C ) DAIRY & POULTRY 
Establishment 
P . F . Contribution 
Deardess allowance 
Feeds for Cattic & Birds 
Medicine & Treatment cost 
Electric charges . 
Repairs & Replacements 
Casual Labour 
Contingency . 
Opening Stock : 

Live Stock - Cattle . 
Live Stock - Birds 


c ) Dairy & POULTRY 
Sale of Mik . 
Sale of Manure . 
Sale of Eggs & Birds , 
Miscellaneous 
Closing Stock : 

Live Stock Cattie , 
Live Stock Birds . 


Suc,8(11)] 


5 . 090 79 

362 40 
2 ,560 IO 
39, 684 II 

725 6 

136 IS 
, 382 5 
4 ,411 2 6 
1, 088 0 
12 ,917 Oo 

289 00 


15 , 817 00 

34000 


. 


59 ,939 


6 


6 


58, 647 15 6 


23 , 190 00 
1, 908 
6 ,549 0 


3 . VILLAGE EXTENSION 

(@ ) GENERAL 
Contr , from Prosad 
Night School Fund 


. 


84 13 


6 


84 13 


6 


877 


3 . VILLAGE EXTENSION 

( a ) GENERAL . . 
Establishment 
P . F . contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Aid to Village Societies . 
Contr, to Prosad & Surhid 

Vidyalaya . 
Brat Balaka Organisation 
Fooding & Travelling expenses 

for Women Fisiting Srini 
ketan villages and other 

places . . . . 
Contingency 


oono O0000 


216 Oo 
2 , 102 3 9 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


360 10 
II 50 


35,213 15 9 


(6 ) ADULT EDUCATION 
W . B . Govt. Grant 
UnspentGort grant of 

West Bengal 


ܘܘܘܗܚ 


123266 8 6 
1,683 76 


13,950 OO 


(6 ) ADULT EDUCATION 
Establishment . . . 
P . F , contribution 
Dearness allowance , 
Travelling & Fooding , . 
Contingency . . 
Allowance to Literary Work 

shop . 
Allowance to Social Workers . 
( HEALTH EXTENSION WORK 

IN VILLAGES 
Medicine for Village Society 

Antimalarial work & 
Others Prophylactic measures 


3 ,648 OO 

275 4 
1,440 0 

438 14 6 
2, 705 IZ 
3,660 OO 
7 , 340 00 


19, 507 14 9 


(c ) HEALTH EXTENSION WORK IN 

VILLAGES 
Sale of Medicine , 
Contr . from Aruna Amita Fund 

Endowment 
Closing Stock : : : 


589 8 6 


305 2 6 


322 50 
1,015 1 


1,926 14 6 


|| 


6zt 


Income & Expenditure Account for the year 1956 -57 


430 


EXPENDITURE 


OME 


Rs AT 


Ra . A 


P . 


Rs. A P. 


Rs, A . P . 

322 50 
- 73 120 

104 7 3 
1,569 II 9 


2,375 


6 


6 


Diet and Medicine for Poor 

Patient (Aruna Amita Fund ) 
Travelling 
Contingency 

Opening Stock . 
tu MATERNITY & CHILD WELFARE 

Establishment 
Drugs 
Travelling . . 
Contingency 
Dearness allowance 


(d ) MATERNTTY AND CHILD WELFARE 
Miscellaneous 
W . B . Govt. Grant towards 
Salary of Lady Health Visitor 


13 


1, 704 Oo 

43 
217 I 6 
61 96 
84000 


0 


17 50 
1, 932 OO 


1 ,949 50 


2,869 8 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDJĄ:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


" Income over Expenditure 


. 


50 , 000 


0 


0 


18 ,22 ,576 7 2 RECURRING GRANTS 
1, 27,938 91 Block grant West Bengal Govt . 

West Bengal Govt. Grantmain 
Lenance of Audio - Visual 
655 -56 ) 


4 ,500 


0 


0 


54 ,500 Oo 


Grant receivable (56 - 57) 


4 . 500 oo 


59 ,000 OO 


19 ,50 ,515 03 


19, 50 ,515 03 


[PARTII 


- 


-- 


- 


PALLI SAMCATHANA VIBHACA , SAINIKETAN 
Abstra Incoine & Expenditure Account of C .1. Extension and Rehabilitation for the year 1956 - 57 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


SEC,(11)1 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. A P. 


Carpentry . 
Net Profit carried over to 

Balance Sheet , 


Rs. A. P . 
170 12 
6,966 5 6 


By Incomeover Expenditure : 

Weaving 


7 , 137 16 


7, 137 


I 


6 


7, 137 I 


6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1 


431 


Income & Expenditure Account of C . I. Extension md Rehabilitation Sriketan for the year 1956 - 57 


432 


EXPENDITURE 


INCOME 


Rs. A , P . 


Rs . 


A 


P . 


Rs. A 


P . 


Rs, AP. 


GA 


82 


00 


8 


0 


(e) C . I. EXTENSION & REHABILITATION 

GENERAL 
Sales Tax 
Trunk call credit 
Store - 
Purchased Books . 
Commission Earned 
Contr, from Weaving 
Contr . from Carpentry . 


55 


3 


2 , 108 76 

33 40 
10 12 0 
SOO 
124 15 6 
4 , 709 13 0 
1 , 569 14 0 


3 


194 
491 


OF 


( e ) C L ESTENSION & REHABILITATION 
D GENERAL 
Establishment 
P . F . Contoibution 
Dearness allowance 
Telephone charges 
Stationary and Printing 
Travelling , 
Adyt. Exhibition & Sampling 
Commission on Books - 
Electric Charges , 
Contingency . 
Interest on Loan 
Sales Tax . 
Forwarding for V . B . Boo 
License and Taxes . 

Entertainment , 
Opening Stock 

Purchased Books 636 
Bricks 

258 8 0 
Stores 

10 120 


238 II 
86 / 9 
70 7 

47 2 9 
53000 0 0 
2 , 180 II 6 

900 

7 4 0 
35 14 0 


oooooooooooooo 


Closing Stock 

Purchased Books 
Bricks 

. 


58 6 
. 258 8 


0 
0 


316 14 


0 


8 ,869 OO 


332 100 


8 ,869 00 


JA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


(# ) WEAVING 


( ) VEAYING 


52, 10I 8 6 
27, 158 13 9 

292 4 6 
138 7 


73 ,240 2 6 
1,475 2 3 . 

75 15 0 


PRODUCTION COST 

Raw materials , 
Labour 
Power and fuel 
Equipments 
Repairs and Replacements 

Contingency . 
SELLING COST 

Forwarding charges 
Rebate . 
Commission on sales , 


Sales 
Rebate from W . B. Govt. 
Forwarding . . . 
Closing stock : 
Finished goods 59 ,072 14 
Raw materials 30 ,070 8 


ONAO owwonoga 


Toa. 


27 


89, 143 6 6 


1,63,934 10 3 


97 12 


956 IO 
1 , 142 2 
, 7 ,726 8 


[PartI 


OFFICE COST 

Proportion of general expenses 
Depreciation . 
Opening Stock : 
Finisbed goods 345564 3 O 
Raw materials 25 ,253 12 6 


4 , 709 130 
2, 628 1 6 


Suc,8(it)] 


59,817 15 


6 


In. come over expenditure 


1, 56 , 797 8 9 

7 , 137 16 


11,63934 10 3 


( ) CARPENTRY 

Sales . 


24,688 4 


Miscellaneous 


: 


: 


: 


aw 


16 13 0 


@ ) CARPENTRY 

PRODUCTION COST 
Establishment . 
P . F . Contribution 
Dearness allowice 
Materials . 
Labor , 
Power and fuel 
Repairs and Replacements 
Tools and Equipments . 
Contingency 


1, 020 00 

84 12 
4800 
14, 301 II 
7478 13 

159 12 
61 IS 
86 0 
70 S 


OOOMOOOOO 


Fornarding : 
Closing Stock : 
Finished goods 
Raw materials 


529 4 
26 , 773 14 


0 
6 


27 ,703 26 

170 - 12 0 


Expenditure over Income 


52,277 


5 


3 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA$,1881 


SELLING COST 


. 


Forwarding charges 
Rebate 
Commission . 


59 8 0 

12 a 
413 90 


OFFICB COST 


1569 14 
22547 13 


0 
0 


Proportion of General expenses 
Depreciation 
Opening Stack : 
Finished goods 572 4 . O 
Raw materials 23, 36 


23938 8 6 


$2 ,277 5 
2,25,080 IS 6 


2225 ,080 15 


6 


433 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT 


134 


Income & Expenditure Account (Manufacturirg Trodirfars Fre 

for the year 1956 - 57 ( including Visoa - Bharati Patrika ) 


Los Arceri ) 


EXPENDITURE 


Rs . As. Ps. 


INCOME 


Rs. As. Ps. 11 


To Purchased ) Books . 
Agency Publications . 
Government Publications . 


11 ,758 IO 6 

9,619 120 
11, 251 14 0 


I 


9 


By Sales 
Gross Realisation . 

: 6 , 83 ,316 
22 ,630 4 6 Less : Last Year s 

outstanding nett (Gross 
78 ,793- 1 - 0 ) 

63, 071 II 9 


11, 12 ,984 19 

66 ,154 30 
38,736 Og 


To Paper Purchase 
Printing charges 
Binding charges 
Drawing , lettering . 
and Photographs 
Editing and Proof- reading 
To Con niission on Sales . 

Commission on Sales ( Hindi) 


215 00 
2 , 785 IO O 


Less : Appropriation 
(for return etc.) . 


2 , 20 ,874 15 


6 


. 222 6 9 62 ,849 50 

6 ,20 ,466 12 9 


. 


1 , 19 , 460 9 II 

102 29 


Add : This year s out 
standing (Gross 
30, 178-7-0 ) . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA%,1881 


. 


. 


25 ,208 29 


To Royalty on Sales of books : 

Royalty on Sales of book (Hindi) 
Royalty on sale of My Boyhood 


1, 19, 562 128 
48 . 734 12 6 

27 6 6 
112 OO 


6 ,45, 674 15 6 

451 12 0 


6 , 46 ,126 II 


6 


days 


- 


48 ,874 30 


By Sales Hindi . . . . 
Commission on Agency publications 
Commission on Govt . publications 
Discount on purchased Books . 
Commission on Misc . Royalty . 
Interest . . . . . 
By Sales Tax 

Sales Tax Hindi ; ; : 


3 . 286 26 

417 4 6 
2 , 871 IS 6 

5606 
63 12 9 


- 


6 ,695 3 91 


To Contributicn to General 
Office Part I towards 

sale of books . . . . 
To Freight : Dr. 1 ,182 80 
Cr. 

185 2 3 


47 ,018 13 


9 


21992 


12 , 990 15 


9 


997 59 


Cartage & Cooly 


309 19 
1, 306 76 


[PARTII 


2 , 16 , 762 4 11 


o Paking Di. 1, 184 I9 
General 589 4 6 
Hindi 90 
Assam 91 5 0 

Cr 681 26 


Stec,8(11)] 


502 15 3 


To Advertisement . 

Publicity 
Text Book Publicity . 
Catalogue & Price List 


, 


5 ,672 4 3 

432 10 0 
1 ,390 I 6 

1 , 721 I 0 
• Dritan 

. 


T 


9,216 09 
12,599 II O 

54 156 


, 


. 


To Sales Tax 

Sales Tax - Assam 
To Salaries 
General 
-do - M . V . M . 


70 ,436 14 5 
1, 082 0 0 


71,518 14 5 


To Dearness Allowance 
General 

26 , 483 15 3 
- do - M . V .M . 497 o 


26 ,981 7 3 


To Personal Allowance 

General 20 ,846 07 
- do - M . V . M . , 360 O Q 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;JANUARY23,,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


21 ,206 07 


1 ,19,706 6 . 3 


To Special alliance 

Temporary appointments 
Appointment in Leave Vacancy 
- Honorarium to Adhyaksha 
Conto P . F . -General 

- do - do 


5 ,660 50 

90 2 8 


620 00 
( 1, 111 5 6 
2 ,202 46 
3 ,600 0 0 
5,750 7 

506 15 0 
3 , 156 00 
1,552 5 6 

237 0 0 
1, 378 I 9 
1,785 80 


To Medical Aid . . 
House Rent : • 
Municipal Tax 
Trade & Sign Board License 
Electric charges : 
Telephone : 





1 ,811 II 0 

26 30 
4 ,027 60 
2 ,293 15 9 


LA 


To Postage : 

General 
Hindi 


2 ,286 129 

73 Ó Cr. 


1,733 , 63 . 


435 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT 
Income & Expenditure Accomi(Manufacturing, Trading and Profit & Loss Account) for the year 1956- 57 ( including Visoa- Bhorals Patrika ) 


436 


EXPENDITURE 


Rs. As. Ps. 


INCOWB 


Rs. As. Ps. 


2 , 542 60 


7 


4 , 235 II 3 

729 12 3 


To Insurance Fire etc. 
Formes & Stationery ( including 
Paper , Printing , Binding of Ceshmemos 
and Ledger Books) , 
Contingency & Sundry Expenses 
Revenue Stamp . . . 
Bank Charges . . . . Dr. 

Cr. 
To Contr . to Visva - Bharati Sammilani 

Travelling & Conveyance , 
Tram & Bus , . . 
Uniforms 
Contr.to Office Canteen : : 


705 
24 50 
161 1 9 
38 14 0 


122 


600 o 


127 39 
27 06 
200 IO9 
483 
4 ,316 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1836/MAGHÀ3,1881 


13 , 257 26 


To Motor Vehicle Maintenance 

01 and Lubricant . . 
Repairs and Replacements . 
Motor Insurance 
Hotor Te . 


1 ,821 13 6 
2 , 139 8 
416 60 
148 


Taalooca 


43525 11 6 


0 
. 


1 ,012 


9 


0 


To Repairs to Building 

Upkeep and Maintenance . 
To Library 

Subscription to Journals . 
Bisding of Library Books & 
Magazines 


54 8 0 
95 120 


PAKT 


150 


4 


7,488 110 


To Depreciation . 
To Opening Stock 
Books . . . 
Paper . 
Binding materials . 
Purchased books etc . 


3 , 75 ,454 IO 
36 , 368 4 3 

- 750 20 
4 , 520 4 0 


ANAH 


SL$(li); 


. 


: 


By Closing Stock 

Books . . 
4 , 17,092 II 3 Paper , 

Binding materials : 
10 , 69 , 508 II 

41,587 13 5 Purchased books . 
2 ,772 II 0 

By Salesuai 
3 ,395 00 By Subscription 

. 
415 3 By Postage 

. 
581 à 2 B D 
1, 047 8 0 By Advertisement , 


3, 99, 990 7 O 
39 , 274 4 6 

1,236 14 0 
4,781 60 


To get Income carried over to Appropriation a/ c. 


: 


4A5,282 15 
2 ,616 OO 

534 8 
174 0 

I O 
8,821 4 0 
12,146 13 0 


оооооа 


. . 


By Packing 


ist 


: 


To Paper 
Printing 
Binding 
Blocks 
Honorarium to Contributors 
Drawing and Lettering 
Postage . 
Freight , 
Cartage and Cooly . 
Tram and Bus fare . . 
Reyçque stamps 
Forms and Stationeries 
Allowance 
Commission on sales 
Commission on Advertisement . 


BOHwaConto 600000annoowooo 


164 I o 
600 o 0 

497 14 0 
1 ,461 129 


THEGAZETTEOFINRIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


To Opening Stock 


. . . 


. 


11,415 90 
2 ,010 130 


To Net Profit (transferred to Balance Sheet ) 


13 ,426 60 

929 9 


By Closing stock 


, 


. 


2, 209 


2 


0 


14 , 355 ISO 


14 ,355 IS 
11,25 ,451 13 


O 
6 


11,25, 451 13 6 


PROFIT & Loss APPROPRIATION A / C 

17 ,981 2 3 By net Income B { F , 
23,600 II 2 


To Contribution to General Office 
Balance carried to Balance Sheet . 


. 


41,587 13 S 


41,587 13 


5 


41,587 13 5 


437 


Receipts & Payments Statement for the year 1956 -57 


438 


General Office 


RECEIPT$ 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


PAYMENTS 


TOTAL 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Description of Receipts 

Admission Fet 
Examination Fee 
Enrolment Fee 
Migration Fee . 
Transfer Certificate Fee 
Misc . Receipts . 
Donation for Printing 
Convocation Address , 


600 0 
22, 818 9 
17,097 3 
1 ,2829 
600 0 


. 


ссаяляоршоо 


0000000000 


1,717 
4 ,487 15 - 

137 8 
4 ,087 8 


79 


Description of Payments 
5 , 865 OO ACADEMIC GENERAL 
13 , 920 6 6 Allowance of Chhatraparichalaka 
1 , 067 00 Examination expenses 
500 00 Convocation expenses . 

so oo Membership Fee to Associations . 
851 90 Visiting Professors Expenses . 

Delegation exp , to Conferences . 
103 00 Cultural Ext , Activities . 

Advertisement . . . 
Refund account , . 
Proportionate cost of Refecto y staff 
Conti , to Students Club . 
Scholarships & Stipends . 

VIDYA -BHAVANA 
23,485 12 0 Salary of Teaching staff 
9 ,625 40 - do - office & other staff 

P . F . contr, of Teaching staff 
25 , 359 7 6 - do - office & other staff 

DA of teaching staff 

do office & other staff 
Research Fellowships and Scholarzhips 
House Allowance 
Stationery & Printing 
Education Excursion 
Contingency , 
Passage Money 
Other alowance 


VIDYA -BHAVANA . . . 
Tuition Fee . 
Residential charges . 
Receipts from Earmarked fund . 
and Donation - 


1 ,14 ,824 0 

6 ,847 2 
7 ,586 13 

441 II 
21, 193 13 

4 , 108 2 
10, 942 10 

131 13 
444 6 

3000 
1,211 14 
2 ,760 2 
1, 000 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY29,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


GAS 


ololoo00ooloanonnanooooo 


1 ,71,792 IO 


VIDYA -BHAVANA HOSTEL 

Salary of Establishment 
Proy, Fund cotr . 
Deamess allowance . 

Wardens allowance . 
58,47076 Contingency , 


378 00 
23 100 
390 OO 

30 00 
204 10 0 


1,026 40 
1,72,818 14 Old 


[PART1 


CHEENA -BHAVANA 

Tuition fee 


Sea,8(11)] 


CHEENA -BHAYANA 
357 00 

Salary of teaching staff . 
- do - office & other staff . 

P . F . cont . of teaching staff . 
do office and other staff 
D , Allowance to teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff 
Stationery and Printing . . 
Contingency . 
Research Scholarship 


37 , 394 76 
2 , 179 II 9 
2 ,098 20 

155 4 
7 , 1609 
1 , 269 10 9 

199 10 3 
270 13 6 
3 , 205 II 6 
53 ,934 0 3 


CHÈENA - BHAVANA HOSTEL . 


Salary of Establishment . 
Proy, Fund cons . 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency 


112 00 

23 14 0 
360 o 0 
149 II 9 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28, 


945 9 9 
51 .879 100 


357 OO 


HINDI BHAVANA 


HINDI- BHAVANA 


Donation for Prof. in Hindi. 


5, 359 8 0 


Salary of Teaching staff . 
- do - office and other staff . 
P . F contr. of Teaching staff 
do office and other staff . 
D . Allowance teaching staff 
-do- office and other staff 
Stationery and Printing . 
Copungency . 
Other allowance 


12 .686 4 6 
2 ,497 II 6 

419 4 0 

164 3 
2 ,658 3 
1 ,271 0 6 

98 120 
144 3 
164 8 3 


wwoancora 


3, 


5 ,359 80 


20 , 104 26 


43 


Receipts and Payments statements for the year 1956 -57 – contd 


440 


RECEPITS 


Total 
Rs. As . Ps. 


PAYMENTS 


TOTAL 
Rs. As. Pr. 


Description of Receipts 
SICSHA - BHAVANA 


Description of Payments 
SIKSBA- BHAVANA 


33, 883 


Tuition Fee . . 
Residencial charges . 
Miscellaneous Receipts 


. 
. 


16 ,645 8 0 
8 , 781 00 

29 00 


3108 


2 ,381 8 

241 
8 ,000 
1 ,980 0 


Salary of teaching staff . 
dow office and other staff 
P . F . contr . teaching staff 
do office and other Staff 
D . Allowance teaching staff 
do office and other staff 
Other allowance . . 
Laboratory expenses . 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency 
Educational excursion . 
Laboratory Equipment and 
Fixture 


. 


600 


....... 


OvonoON00000+ aowanoowooow 


2 ,481 
379 
157 7 
150 00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


. 


8 ,433 26 
61,790 o 3 


SIRSHA - BHAYANA HOSTEL 

Salary of Establishment . 
Provident Fund contribution 
Dearness allowance . 
Contingency . 
Warden s allowance , 


1 , 283 16 

89 15 0 
1 , 050 0 0 
289 15 0 
30 oo 


, 


. 


2 ,742 35 6 
64 ,538 15 9 


24 ,855 80 


VINAYA - BAHYANA 


VINAYA - BHAYANA 


Tuition Fee . 
Residential charges . 
Miscellaneous Receipts 


8 ,597 0 
4 ,325 I20 

4 9 0 


. 


Salary of teaching staff . 
do - office and other staff 
P . F . conts, teaching staff 
do Oitice and other staff 


, 

. 
. 
, 


22 ,090 9 
6 , 198 0 
1 ,546 5 

366 1 


OOOO 


[PARTII 


4 , 879 
3 .434 
600 
316 


D . A , teaching staff 
- do - office and other staff 
Other allowance . . . 
Materials for crafts . 
Equipments and Raw material 
Contingebcy 
Stationery and Printing . . 
Medical expenses 
Sports and Educational excursion 
Conveyance charges 
Laboratory expenses 


000nangANNO 


00000oWooow 


SBQ,()] 


VINAYA- BHAVANA REPECTORY 


. 


Salary of estabishment . 
P . F . contribution , 

Dearness allowance . 
Allowance 


. 


871 

24 0 0 
360 00 
298 60 


1,553 


15 


VINAYA - BHAVANA HOSTEL 


384 0 


Salary of Establishment . 
P . F . contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


24 Oo 
360 00 
257 8 9 


1,025 8 9 
44,637 13 0 


13, 427 50 


KALA- BHAYANS 


Tuition fee . . 
Residential charges . 


. 


16, 123 O O 
10 ,794 12 0 


KALA -BHAYANA 

Salary of teaching staff . 
- do - office and other staff . 
P , F . Conti, teaching staff . 
-do - office and other staff , 
DA, teaching staff . . 
-do - office and other staff . 
Honorarium to Emeritus Professor 


32,425 
6075 12 
2,365 

373 
6 ,067 
23766 
3, 600 


ooon oowooba 


441 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956-57 – contd . 


442 


TOTAL 


TOTAL 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Rs . A . P . 


R . A 


P . 


Description of Receipis 


Description of Paymeris 
Materials for Crafts and Accesso 

ries 
Museum expenses 
Contingency 
Stationery and Printing . 
Educational Excursion . 
Allowance . . . 


364 13 
173 5 


773 5 
194 15 


Moomoo 


200 


6000 
56, 580 2 


O 


KALA - BHAVANA HOSTEL 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
25 
, 
1960 
/ 
MAGHA 
B 
, 
1881 


Salary of Establishment - 
Provident Fund Contribution 
Dearness Allowance 
Contigency . . . 
Warden s allowance , 


456 00 
28 8 0 
36000 
199 15 6 
30 Oo 


. 


1,074 76 
57,654 96 


26 ,917 120 


SANGIT - BHAVANA : 


SANGIT -BAAVANA 


Tuition Fee 
Residential change 


. 


7 , 808 12 0 
6 , 169 00 


Salary of teaching staff 2 
Do. office and other staff 
P . F . contr , teaching staff 
Do . Office and other staff 
D . A . of teaching staff . 
Do, office and other staff 
Other allowances . . . . 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency 


47, 964 6 

1 , 992 0 
2 ,917 0 

156 12 
19 ,114 0 
1 ,200 0 
600 0 
199 II 3 
512 13 9 


000000oma 


[ 
PART 
II 


Musical equipments - 
Educational Excursion . 


. 


393 13 O 
175 O o 


ووابا| 


SEC,8(11)] 


66 ,225 


9 


SANGIT - BHAYANA HOSTEL 

Salary of Establishment . 
Provident Fund contr. . 
Dearness allowance 
Contingency 
Warden s allowance 


408 00 

25 8 0 
360 o 0 
103 I 3 

30 OO 
926 9 3 
67, 152 2 6 


PATHA -BHAYANA 

Taition fee . 
Residential charges 


. 


. 


13, 977 12 0 

- PATHA - BHAYANA 
39 ,045 00 Salary of teaching staff . 
37 , 322 8 0 Do. office and other staff 

P . F . contr. teaching staff 
Do, office and other staff 
D . A . of teaching staff . 
Do . office and other staff 
Allorances . . 
Laboratory expenses . 
Stationery and Printing 
Contigency . 
Educational excursion , 
House rent : 


66 ,020 12 
5 , 296 0 
4 , 543 15 

367 0 
17 , 557 5 
2 ,640 0 

600 0 
447 1 
953 II 
927 7 
4000 
89 IO 6 


90000000000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIAJANUARY25,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


99 , 843 00 


PATHA -BHAYANA HOSTEL 

Salary of Establishment . 
Proy . Fund contribution . 
Dearness allowance - 
Other allowance , 
Congingency and Equipment . 


2 , 966 10 

166 IO O 
2 , 280 0 
1 ,2609 
607 40 


oooola 


7,280 89 
1,07, 123 8 9 


76 ,367 80 


KINDERGARTEN AND NURSERY 

Salary 


1440 00 


443 


Receitis and Payments Statement for the year 1956- 57 - contd . 


RECEIPTS 


TOTAL 
Rs. d . P . 


PAYMENTS 


TOTAL 
Rs. A 


P . 


Description of Receipts 


Description of Payments 
SIKSHA-CHARCHA 


SIKSHA -CBARCHA 


V . B . Government Block Grant 


38,016 


8 


9 


Establishment 
Provident Fund cont . . 
Deardess allowance 
House Rent 
Stipend . 
Contingency . 
Medical Service 
Crafts materials and Library , 
Electric charges , 
Games and Sports . 
Current maintenance and white 

washing . . . 
Escursion . . 

. 
. 


11 ,784 4 6 

694 1 
3 , 144 7 3 

600 00 
20 , 1596 

1968 
720 0 
717 
3800 
230 9 


OoOoooa Tooaowoagowoa 


360 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1964MAGHA5,1881 


. 


600 


38 ,016 8 9 


39 , 567 16 


7 , 095 12 09 


700 


PUBLICATIONS 

Sales of Research Publications 
" Prospectus and Forms 
V . B . Qiy . Subscription . 
Do . Advertisenent Receipts 
V . B . News- Subscription 
Miscellaneous receipts 
Refund account Royalty ) . 


PUBLICATIONS 

Salary of Establishment 
5 , 322 3 3 All wante , 
2 , 749 00 Provident Fund contribution · 
1, 299 00 Dearness allowance . . 
29 o 

Royalty to Authors , 
1,283 5 6 V . B . Qtly . Proting , Paper and 
39 3 

other charges 
Res arch Putlications, paper, 

printing and other charges . 
Prospectus, Bulletio etc. . 
Contingeocy and Forwarding . 
· Packing and Stationery . . 
V .B . News Printing ard other 

charges . 


585 3 0 
2, 520 00 

22 9 3 
7 ,446 916 


GEONooowo" 


10 ,070 2 0 

164 8 0 
1 , 387 II 3 
-515 66 


2, 955 50 
33, 163 - 3 - 3 


[PART1 


10 , 721 II 9 


SREE- SADANA 

Salary of Establishment 
Prov. Fund Contr . . 
Dearness Home 
Food allowance fer Maid Ser . 

Yipt 
Otherallerances . 
Contingency 


đc,ởđi) 


5,954 8 0 

360 120 
2 ,400 OO 
1,719 4 0 

63 o o 
784 2 3 
11,278 10 . 3 


- 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

Sport Fee 
Misc, receipts , 


, 


3 ,49900 

7 13 0 


PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

Salary of Establishment 
Proy, Fund contribution 
Dearness allowance 
Sporting goods . 
Annual Sort + 
Ground Improvement 
Repairs , Replacements and 
Mantenance of Appartus and 
and Swimming Pool 
Expenses for YLsiting teams . 
Contingency 


4 , 094 II 
303 2 0 
1, 500 
523 100 


2754 II 


MOODOO 


923 Io 


163 2 
877 13 
404 6 


9 
6 


THỂGAZETTROFINDIA:JANUARY28,1900/MAGHA3,1881 


3 ,506 13 


0 


11 , 545 


3 


9 


MOSCOM 


Misc, Receipts 


45 II O 


MUSEUM 

Salary of Establishment 
Proy, Fuad contr . . . . 
Darness lomapce . 
Books and Journal s 
Repairing and Building MSS & J 
Milctofilming & Photocopying 
Publiation 
Stationery md Printing 
Contingency 
Other allowance , 


II, 509 2 0 

80 IS O 
3012 2 0 

T8 14 0 
301 $ o 
IS19 
270 00 
660 3 0 
267 12 0 
- - - - - - - 
17, 082 1 0 


45 II 0 


4 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956 - 57 - contd . 


446 


Total 


Total 


RECEIPTS 
Description of Receips 


PAYMENTS 
Description of Payments 


Rs. As . PE 


Rs. As. PS. 


LIBRARY 

Admission fee 
Membership Subscription 
Misc . grants and Donation 

for bocks 
Misc . Receipts , 


Books 


LIBRARY 
373 60 Salary of Establishment 
74 0 0 

Prov . Fund contribution 

Deafness allowance 
1, 000 00 
229 130 Binding materials and other 

charges 
1 ,677 3 0 Journals, Newspapers, Magazines 

and other periodicals 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency - 
Stock taking expenses 


18, 381 4 3 

1,441 60 
7 , 228 0 
16 ,619 10 
2,912 12 0 


waterials and other 


1 , 155 3 
401 15 
785 14 


iaidaooWoow 


48 ,926 


I 


THEGAZETTE,OFINDIA;JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


( 15,391 15 0 


CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION 

Land Rent 
Misc . Receipts 
Contr , from Gran hapa Vibhaga 
Receipt from Alumni Association 
Salami and Conseat Fee 
Sale Froceeds of Bulletins 


1 ,381 22 
6 , 486 II 6 
65 ,000 0 0 

500 
1 ,960 0 

560 


000000 


CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION 

Salary of Upacharya and his 
Office staff 
Salary of Registrar and Office 
Establishment (Gen ). Section ) 
Salary of Accounts Section 
Salary of Treasurer s Section . 
Provident Fund contr . 
Dearness allowances 
Calcutta Alloy . Treasurer s Sec . 
Other allowance . 
Discretionery Grants of Upacharya 
Contingency 
Stationery and Printing 
Telephone charges 
Rent and Taxes 
Office cquipments , Treasurer s Sec . 
Meeting expenses . 
Griests and Delegations 


OOOOOOOONOangol 


74 , 933 14 


50, 301 14 
41,587 13 
5 ,470 9 
7 , 946 12 
30,056 0 

1, 183 II 
1 , 200 0 0 
1,071 0 0 
13 -263 I 2 
16 ,394 12 0 
5 ,487 100 
2 ,265 II 9 

191 8 9 
6 ,029 39 

2, 023 50 
1,99 ,864 15 8 


3 


[PART1 


. 


2 ,180 8 3 
2 ,208 09 


. 


SEQ.3(ii)] 


3 , 870 5 0 

278 4 0 
43100 00 


412 


Festival expenses , 
Publication of Bulletins, . 
prints and pictures etc . 
Travelling allowance including 
Cycle allowance . 
Law charges , 
Contr . to Staff Club 
Contribution to Alumni 
Association 
Lump sum provision for salary 
adjustment 
Purchase of Motor car 
Consideration Money for 
Uttarayan properties 
Entertainment expenses 
(Upacharya s Office ) 
Lump sum provision for Leave 

2rangements - - 
Refund Account . . 


oioowobOhooo 


7,00 oo 
17,903 30 

79 80 


1000 
- - - - - - - - 
2 , 37. 907 9 2 


WORKS & BUILDINGS 

House Rent 
Contr. from U . B . for Roads . 
Misc . Receipts . . 


27 ,777 2 


3 


220 


4 


0 


WORKS & BUILDINGS 

Salary of Establishment 
Proy, Fund contr . 
Dearness allowance 
Maintenance of Buldings 
Maintenance of Roads, culverts etc . 
Repairs to Furniture & Fixture 
Estate Improvement 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingencies including 
maintenance of cycles & Postage 
Addition & Replacements of Fumiture 
Equipment Minor 
Works 
Original Works . . . 


17 , 319 03 

1,247 8 0 
5 ,809 15 0 
22 ,757 12 
4 ,408 12 
1 ,113 13 3 
1 ,929 II 9 
359 00 


Mobamaom 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA18,1881 


541 2 


6 


40 , 955 5 
10 ,553 126 


ELECTRICITY & WATER SUPPLY - GENERAL 

Electricity charges 
Water charges 


27, 997 6 3 

- ELECTRICTY & WATER SUPPLY - GENERAL 
13 , 333 12 0 Salary of Establishment 
99900 Proy , Fund contr . 

Dearness allowance 
Contingency 


1,06 ,995 13 9 
6 ,285 15 0 

421 5 0 
1 , 740 00 

442 90 
8 ,889 13 O 


447 


Receipts ad Payments Statement for the year 1956 


- oonitd . 


448 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Total 

Rs. As Ps. 


RECEIPTS 
Description of Receipts 


PATHENTI 
Description of Poyntets 
ELECTRICITY 

Salary of Electr c Establishment 
Proy, Fund contr . . 
Dardes domance 
Elée charges and Surcharge 
Repairs md Replacements 
Original works . 
Toobs & Implements , Fans etc . 


2 ,580 0 0 

178 80 
Bodo oo 
54,473 5 6 
2, 287 6 3 


11, 243 5 9 
72,487 96 


14 , 332 12 


0 


WATER SUPPLY 

Satirry of establishment 
Prov.Fund contr. 
Deamets Rowance 
Otter LOWABCO 
Chemicals and Misc . Stores . 
Running cost of Electricity . 
Repairs and Reachals of Water Works 
Tools and Plano . . 
Repairs and Maint of tanks and Wells 
løspection and Analysis fee . 
Original works taying of pipe etc . 


4711 IS 

288 
2 ,640 0 

120 0 
844 3 
4 , 369 6 
881 


MOOMomo MOOOMOOOOO 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1000/MAGHA3,1881 


150 10 
418 14 


14, 135 IO 
95,467 76 


GARDENS 

Misc. Receipts 


. 


121 3 O GARDENS 

Sectory of Establishment 
Prov . Fund contribution 
Dennessu n 
Milimentace 
Continuicy 


4 , 793 8 

294 7 
3 , 4919 
1 ,821 9 

73 6 


waboa 


[PARTII 


121 30 


10,475 90 


VATCE & AD 

Night Watch charge 


VATCE & WARD 
848 ILO Salary of Establishment 

Proy, Fund contribution 
Deates alorico 
Contingencies . 
Other Womace . 


$5732 6 

361 3 
461 4 


100.Ul)] 


696 o 


848 110 


11 ,595 IO 


23,844 7 


HOSPITAL 

Medical Poc 
Medicine 
Clinical Laboratory fee 
X Ray charges 
Sale of Horticle , 
Dornton 


8 , 166 80 
4 ,257 9 0 
2,766 10 
3 ,869 00 


1, 696 12 


8 , 567 0 


1, 103 10 

376 14 


25 00 


HOSPITAL 
Salary of publishment 
Prov . Fun contributiog 
Dearness allowance 
Drugs , . : 
Equipments and Furniture 
Clinical expenses . 
House Rent 
Eye and Dental Clinic 
Emergency expenditure 
Sick diet 
Boolo and Journals 
Stationery and Printing 
X Ray Clinic , 
Coatingas . . 


412 W 


WONOKOvo 


ܘܘܣܘܩܘܘܘܘܘܘܗܘܟܐܘ 


THIGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960MAGĦA8,1881 


444 14 6 
2356 80 
1,088 a 


19 ,681 1 0 


4 , 119 9 


SANITATION 

Contr . from Union Board 


4500 


7 


. 


SARITATION 

Sutary of Rstablishmecat 
Pror. Fund contribution 
Damess allomace 
Occasioml Labour 
Cycle Allowance , 
Drinfectant 
Coatiapenasy . 


4 , 889 

143 
4,659 


4681 


90boommt 


2,091 9 

103 10 
12,391 : 9 


490 OO 


449 


- - - - -- Receipa und Payments Statement for the yeu 1956- 574- Cont . **** * * 


r 


450 


Total 

A . P. 


Tocal 

A . P. 


PAYMENTS 
Description of Payments 


Rs. 


Rs. 


RECEIPTS 
Description of Receipts 
GUEST HOUSE : 

Room rent & Seat rent 
Misc . Receipts . 


7 , 403 34 


. 
. 


. 
. 


4, 080 


GUEST HOUSE : 
3 , 598 8 O Salary of Establishment 
650 00 Prov . Fund contr . 

Dearness allowance 
House allowance 
Other allowance 
Equipments 
Stationery and Printing 
Contingency 
Occasional Labour 


e 
Mooo oooommmo 


1 ,078 13 
- 78 # 
372 8 
II 40 


4,248 80 


13,650 15 


6 


SANTINIKETAN PRESS : 

Printing charges 
Bindings charges 
Sale of papers 
Misc. Receipts 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA5,1881 


NOO 


31, 725 20 
2,2239 
3 , 982 10 
310 12 0 


SANTINIKETAN PRESS: 
Salaries and allowance 
Prov .- Fund contr . 
Dearness allowance 
Extra allowance , 
Purchase of papers 
Binding materials 
Packing materials 
Printing materials . 
Contingencies 
Contr, of Şipotsava 
Electric charges , 
Oils and Lubricants 
Postage 
Rly . Freight and Cartage 
Repairs to Machinery Furniture 
Stationery . . 
Travelling allowance 
Types and Cases 
House Allowance 
Depreciation . 


19 , 751 2 

1 ,486 8 
10 ,649 

1, 146 IO 
42444 

204 
150 6 
477 
127 


0000000 


omwaonooooooooow 


653 


77 14 
56 12 
302 10 
II6 
226 14 


RAITTY 


598 13 6 
150 00 


[PARTII 


38 , 242 


2 


3 


40 ,691 6 0 


. 


TELEPHONE SECTION : 
Salary of establishment 
Prov. Fund conti. . 
Dearess allowance 
Contingency 
Other allowance 


2 ,097 14 

130 70 
1 ,565 0 0 

15 12 3 
165 00 


Src, s(11)] 


3 ,974 


I 


3 


, 


Recurring Grants :- - 
Government of India 
Government of West Bengal 
Government of Orissa 
Government of Assam 
Government of Uttar Pradesb 


11, 14 ,000 0 0 
40 ,000 OO 
7 , 088 Oo 
2 , 000 0 0 
1 ,00000 


11,64,088 OO 


Donations : 

Hindusthan Charity Trust 
Visva- Bharati Society 
Miscellaneous . . 


25 0 0 
50 ,000 OO 


12, 000 O o Value of I. P . O . Written off 
50,000 Oo Provision for Depreciation Fund . 

385 00 
62,385 OO 

LOAN A /C ( FOR STAFF QUARTERS) ; 
4 , 800 oo Repayment of Loan 

Maintenance of Buildings 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIAJINL’ARY23,1960(MAGHA3,1881 


LOAN A / C (FOR STAFF QUARTERS) : 

House Rent . 


10,000 0 0 

839 70 


4, 800 OO 


10, 839 


7 


0 


SANTINIKETAN REFECTORY : 
Messing charges 
Contr . From General Fund 
Misc. Receipts 
Advance from General Fund 


2 ,01,494 93 
4 ,087 80 

646 5 0 
75 ,214 6 


SANTINIKETAN REFECTORY : 
Salary of establishment 
Proy, Fund contr . 
Dearness allowance 
Other allowance 
Food materials 
Fuel 
Utensils , Furniture etc . 
Sick diet for Girls students 
Contingency 


14 , 1 L2 39 

955 I 
8 ,595 13 

60 00 
2 ,25 , 779 03 

7 , 985 II 9 
2 , 139 00 


1,253 90 


2 ,81 ,442 129 


2,60 ,880 70 


451 


Racles at Pain Statement for the per - 1956-57 - Cand 


452 


Tota 


R 


& 


RocuPTS 
Description of Receipt 


PATHITS 
Description of Payments 


Total 
Re .. 


. 


COAL. SECTION: 

Sale of Coal . 
Misc . Receipts 


. 


. 


32 ,8269 

384 


. 


COAL. SECTION. 
Sabry of Establishment 
Prov. Fund coat . . 
Dearness allowance 
Purchase of coal . 
Contingency . . 


. 


18 
67386 
35 , 953 26 

304 153 


3320 


37, 359 79 


SOCIAL TERSION SCHOK 
Salary of Establishment 
Deurness allowance 
Tmpelling allowance 
Books 

. 
Misc. epenses . 


3 .906143 
130 ० 
50953 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGĦA.,1881 


550 


5, 157 100 


DEVELOPMENT SOHB - 250 Fret 

YEAR PLAN: 
VDYA BHAVANA : 
Salary of Teaching stuff . 
Prov. Fund contr . of Teaching suf 
Derness allow . of Teaching staff . 
Research Fellowship and scboler 

ship 


407 36 
3498 13 
9, 259 ० ० 


- 


ald : 


DICTIONARY PRopot (Deyalam 
Books 
Furniture 
Stationery , Cootingency & TA 


1543 


1962 
9556 
446 146 


PART1 


A - 

BROIC AND 
Ceatal Gore Great 


49 , 000 


O 


Spo.(!!) 


AORO ECONOMIC ROLUKE 
Salary of Establishmeat , 
Prov . Fond cont , , 
Detmen allowance 
Pield allowanco 
Truvelling atlonaco 
Houx Rent 
Books und Journal 
Furniture and Equipment 
Stutionery and Pimiag 
Tolophone chaton . 
C tingeдc . . 
Publication . . 


39. 363 3 
2 , 175 2 0 
1 ,005 13 0 
1,390 II 0 
6 , 989 IO 

9000 
1,637 14 
2 , 204 6 
1 ,484 156 

333 15 0 
1,357 13 0 
1 ,014 7 0 


63, 757 14 


2 


Receipts frota AL.I. T . 


63,000 OO 
2 ,000 O MIT, SCENE 

Sales 


1,750 00 


2 .000 


0 


0 


1,750 00 


MASTER PLAR : 

Ceatal Gort. Great 
Lake : Torreferred to Atrace Alm 


9000 0 . 0 

i g ) 


MAITE PLAN : 

Salary 

Demmes comRCO 
4941 BO Hcox Rent . . 

Travelling allonne 
Stationary and Priatieg 
Contingency , . 


6 , 184 8 0 
871 80 
714 36 
534 59 
207 15 0 
116 30 


THEGAZETTLOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1900/MAGHA3,1881 


8, 947 Og 


8 ,629 o 


3 


1,388 89 

656 00 
18 , 779 6 6 


Centrul Govt, for Notis Pain 
Central Govt. Grant for Study Tours 
Central Govt. Grant for Books on 

Humanities 
Centre ) Govt. Grant for Publication 

of Approved Rexurch Works 
Central Govt. Grant for Resalt 

and Renemis of Teta Building 
Central Govt . Great to pacct deil 

cit for 1955- 56 . . . 


1,000 oo Erpenditure for Netir Paft Performance 
2 ,420 OO Expenditure for Study toun 

Library Boots an Humanities . 
20 ,000 OO Expenditure on collection of Pok 

songs 
1,800 Oo Malateadace of Buildings . . 
37, 500 o 
1, 00, 000 OO 


782 6 
40 ,871 14 0 


45 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956– 57 – Contd . 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - 


454 


RECEIPTS 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps . 


- 


- 


-- 


-- 


- - 


- 


Description of Receipts 
EARHARKED DONATIONS 

Bata Shoe Co , Lid . for Chair of 
Boonomics 
Sundry Donators 


PAYMENTS 

- - - - 
Description of Payments 
EARHARKED DONATIONS 
Expenses from Sundry Earmarked 

Donations 
Expenses on Chair of Hind : 
Expenses from Chair of English 
and Economics , . 


10 , 000 CO 
1. 288 00 


1 , 950 SO 
5 ,359 go 
16 150 I 6 
23. 460 16 


11, 288 


0 


0 


Unrealised Central Govt. Grant 

for Natir Puja Performance 


788 


8 


9 


Expenditure 10 urred out of Un 
spent Balance of Islamic and 
Urdu Studies Grant . . 


9 ,209 60 


FUNDS 

Sunday Earmarked Funds 
Compassionate Allowance Fund 
Discretionary Grant Fund 
Depreciation Fund 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1980/MAGHA$,1881 


71 ,064 4 3 

Ιο6 ΙΙ Ο 

120 00 
50 , 000 00 


FUNDS 
Poddar Fund expenses , 
Rabindra Bharau Furd Expenses 
Expenses from Discretionary Grant 

Furd 


2 , 573 II 

163 8 


تباہ 


139 00 


- 


- 


- 


- 


81,290 15 3 


2 ,876 


3 


بار 


FUND INVESTMENT ACCOUNT 
Sundry Earmarked Fund 
Compassionate Allowance Fund . 


33 955 13 

106 11 


FUND INCOME 

Investment from Earmarked Fund 


34,062 80 
5 255 106 


EXPENDITURE FROM FUND INCOME 

Expenditure out of Fund Income 


16 ,313 15 0 


CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Construction of Swimming Pool 


235 3 


o 


INVESTMENT 
Central Govt Grant for Hostel 

Servants Quarters 
Central Gov . Grant for Sinking 

Tube well (Water Supply Sch 
eme 


10 578 00 


CAPITAL EXPENDITURE - 5 YEAR PLAN 

Vidya -Bhayana Developmeot 
Sangita- Bhavana 


100 . 000 


0 


41,422 

112 


[PARTII 


0 


1 
3 


6 
6 


Checna - Bhayana 
Vinaya -Bhavana 
Kala - Bhayana 


II2 3 6 
15 ,387 15 0 
1, 441 So 


skc.8(11) 


1 , 10 ,575 00 


58,475 126 


DEPOSITS 

Income Tax Deposit 
Student s Deposit 
Prov. Fund Deposit 
Kitchen Deposit 
Caution Money Dep . 
Urban Bank Dep . 
Miscellaneous Deposit 
Contractor s Security Dep . 
Constractor s Earnest Money Dep . 
Students Union Fee Deposit 
Library Earnest Money 
Old Caution Money Dep . . 

Refresher Course Stipend & T . A . 
STIPENDS & SCHOLARSHIPS 

Central Govt . Stipd . & Schot. 
Other Gort. Stipd . & Schol . 
Misc, Stip , & Schol. 


DEPOSITS 
9 , 589 11 6 Income Tu Deposiis . 
6 ,924 15 0 Students Deposits 
71,831 14 3 Proy. Fund Deposit 

So oo Kitchen Deposit 
3 , 760 8 6 Caution , money Deposit 
10 .248 II Urban Bank deposit 
5 ,93 , 952 5 9 Miscellaneous Deposit 

3 , 348 96 Cootractor s Security Deposit . 
4 ,699 00 Contractor s Eamest Money Dep . 
1,044 Oo StudentsUnion Fee Deposit 

Library Earnest Money Deposit 

Old Caution money Deposit 
1,467 

Refresher course stipend and T . A . 

STIPENDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS ETC . 
28, 587 4o Central Govt . Stipend and Scholarship 
28 ,460 40 Other Goyt , Stipend and Scholarship 

300 0 0 Misc . Stipend and Scholarships 


9 , 589 11 6 
7 ,070 8 0 
71, 831 14 3 

905 0 
2 ,762 14 
10 , 248 II 
3 , 59,696 3 

11 ,554 6 
14, 528 0 


0000000000baowoalaloo 


ооооо 


THEGAZETIEULI 


470 


το 

Ιο ο ο 
1 ,467 00 


I 


30 , 999 12 
27, 963 8 0 

30000 


7 ,64 ,269 4 


3 


5,39,407 


9 


6 


Artear stipend and T . A . from 

V . B .Govt, for Refresher course 


. 


. 


Advances Realised from Misc , Parties 
Do . Do . Central Govt. for 

Hostel Bldg . 
Do . Do. Master Plan 
Imprest to Departments 


1,590 OO 
2,13 ,315 14 6 Advances to Misc . Parties . . . 
2,821 15 5 Do. Do , Central Govt . for Natir Puja 

152 153 
11, 327 90 Imprest to Departments . . 
2 ,27,518 6 2 


2 ,29,470 4 9 

388 89 
8 ,650 00 


Jl.UARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


2 ,38 ,508 13 6 


STORES 
MAINTENANCE STORES 

Works and Buildings 
Electricity & Water Supply . 


6 ,011 8 3 
6, 568 6 0 


STORES 
MAINTENANCE STORES 
Works and Buildings 
Electricity and Water Supply 


6 ,658 3 3 
6 , 767 15 9 


12, 579 14 


3 


13 ,426 3 


0 


455 


456 


Resuad Post Stations for togter ID - 7 - Cortd . 


RMITS 


Towed 
Bs. As . Pe 


Parum 


Total 
Rs. de PL 


Description of Rosetpes 
CAITTAL STORES 

Steel Materials 
Cernent . 
Electeic Goods 


. 


Despipets of Payment 

CarTaL STORES 
4, 150 3 
1208 18 6 8 Mr du , 
4636 1 6 Cement 

Electrk Goo 


24 ,039 IS O 
13 , 999 149 
2 , 491 9 


32 , 004 O3 
39,07, 148 3 8 


422521 46 
23,61,631 88 


Tout - Goneral Office (Sectiaikette ) 


Total - General Office ( Saatiniketta ) 

PRIH Surogathan Vibhaga 
Grour A ACADEMIC SPOTIOY 
1. SIKSHA- SATRA 

Fees and Contz, from mode to e 
Misc. Income from Prouductive 

Articla 
Seat rest & Light charges 
Fooding charges for students . 

. 8 . Govt. maintconco gras 


THEGAZETTBOFINDIA:JANUARY25,1960/MAGHA%,1881 


12 , 204 13 

899 4 
5 ,0390 
2, 812 


GROM A ACADEMIC DRAMUEST 

I, SIKSHA - SATRA 

Establishment . 
2415 15 3 P . F . cont. . 

Deimess alorice , 
17 s8 Fooding charges for students 
641 00 Light charges and contr . to halth & 

124 So Crafts materials and Trainin 
3 , 000 0 0 

Agriculture , Poultry & Fishery 
Books, appliances and Science material oc. 
Stationary and Prúthug 
Games and outing , 
Contingency . 
Stipending Scholinip 
Equipmeni : . . 


100 
II8 
III 
1293 
688 II 
106 7 8 
20 80 


oanoanoonoo 


this og 


0899 


23, 195 19 


[PARTII 


O 


2. LOKA- STISTA 

Pea 
Sake ofLord 
Salo of Boob 
Postero . 
Wiscoll . 


4,020 o 
335 4 
179 18 


.:(11) 


. 


2 . LAKI - STRIRA 
3 , 701 9 . Establishment 

174 14 0 Cont . to Pro , Fund 
131 30 Books for centre 
116 3 Books for Library and also 
3 100 per setting and Ext , the 

Stationary and Prating 
Postage and Telegram 
Tmyelling 

. 
Contingency 
Detreat Wonoso 


Ooo.ooooo 


619 


oooo 


4, 140 0 
T. 577 6 


4, 127 13 


9 


6 


3. Late Of Old tow 

Misc . tocopt 


paper 


II 130 
19 8 0 


3 . LIHAT 
Potablishment 
P . F . cotor. 
Books , 
Newspaper om 
Bindias 
Cooligecy 
Dorthese wonde 
AHOYIDCC . 


1 , 800 O 
1500 
196 13 
196 3 
311 
699 9 
550 


00000000 


60 


5 


. 


THEGAZITTLOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1900/MAGHA8,1881 


BI SO 


3 ,469 120 


4 LIHAT SPRCO SCHUM 

(Spongorod by W . B . Gort.) 
7 . B . Govt . Ann 


1, 348 11 


0 


LIRANY Smvia SCAUX 
(Sponsored by W . B . Govt.) 
Batabdishonest . . . 
Costiegency . . . 
Daunent allonpace 


. 


948 00 

40 II O 
360 00 


1, 348 110 


1, 348 110 


3. COTTAGE INDUSTRY TIME 

SECTION 


5 . COTTAGE INDUSTET TRAINING SECTION 


Admission Pet , 
Pee from Truided 
Salo proceeds , 
Set ront and Medical fee 
Light 
Missallad 


Establishment 
163 8 0 Allowance 
2 ,019 & OP. F . Cat. . 
2, 197 12 6 Pire lagerence 
s 

Telephone 
207 8 Sdpeod 
264 4 6 Ben materials 


35, 671 0 

896 10 
2 ,527 3 

370 
3 ,942 o 3 
2 , 491 to 9 


ошооо 


LST 


Receipts and Paymknis Stasement for the year 1956 - 57 - contd . 


458 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


RECEIPTS 
Description of Receipts 

Cootr . from Satra for Raw materials 
Examitation fee 
Annual for Games and Library 
W . B . Government grant 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 

PAYMENTS 
Description of Payments 
400 0 0 Equipments 
326 oo Books and News Paper 

63 O Commission 
13 , 200 Oo Medical fee and Medicine codur. 

Light charges . 
Repairs and Replacements 
Games and Social Activities 
Fuel and Furnace 
Travelling 
Contr . to Upkeep for maintenance 
Stationery and Printing 
Condogency . 
Dearness allowance 
Labour . 
Forwarding 
Rebate 


2 ,618 7 3 
102 14 

64 IO 
248 14 
1 , 168 II 
203 4 

790 
166 13 0 
477 
1, 0000 

133 34 

400 14 
10 , 248 2 
571 12 0 

Ι Ι Ο 
246 0 3 


Wooowaonooononow 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


20 , 401 IO 


65 ,530 79 


COPTAGE INDUSTRY WORKSHOP 

TRAINING 
Sale Proccede 
Miscellaneous 


COTTAGE INDUSTRY WORKSHOP 

TRAINING 
3 ,692 40 Establishment 
167 13 OP. F . Contribusjon 

Deardess allowance 
Raw materials . 
Tools and Implements 
Repairs and Replacemedis 
Power and Fuel 
Stipend and Labour 
Contage Bcy 
Stationery and PriDtig 
Tray , and Excursion 
Commission . 


15 , 907 II 9 
13242 0 
4 , 137 8 
1 , 325 0 

986 0 


216 


163 80 


NWUNOVOONOOOOH 


3 , 677 


- 


Rebate , 


185 3 
309 26 


3,860 Io 


[PARTII 


28, 288 129 


S&C,&(u)] 


- 


- 


14, 331 I 

1, 100 13 
2 ,935 14 
293 13 
3000 
410 14 


Group B General Administration 

& Estate Maintenance 
I. GENTRAL ADMINISTRATIONS 

General 
Sale of Literature 
Telephone Trunk calls 
Stall rent, Donation Grants etc , 
Electric charges 
Miscellaneous 
W .B . Govt. Grant from civil 

Surgeon , Suri 
W . B . Goví, from NES Black , 

Bolpur, Sriniketan 
W . B .Govt. from Agri-Officer, 

Suri (55 - 56 ) 
W .B . Govt. Agri-Officer, Sun 

(56 - 57 ) 
W . B . Govt. from Director of 

Industries 
W . B. Govt. Grani foj tolk 

recreational activities . 


Group B General Administration 

& Estate Maintergace 
1. GENERAL ADMINISTRATION 

General 
2 . 5 19 Establishment 
IOS OOP. F . CODIL, 
523 10 0 Anniversary and Festival , 

oo Guest Eatertainment 
II OO Cootr, to Sriniketan Club 

Telephone Rent ( Trunk calls ) 
Other allowance 

Exhibition , Posters Chart etc. 
1500 Electric charges - , 

Stationery and Prinzing 
Postage and Telegram 

Travelling . . . 
130 00 Contingency . . . . 

Dearness allowance 
250 o 0 Folk recreational and Orlier 

activities 
1 ,000 OO 


TO 


3 


ܘܘܚܩܘܘܘܚܟܝܝܚܙܗܗܩ 


. 


o 0 


130 o 


G 


1 , 170 5 
631 5 
345 14 
817 I 

317 12 
4 ,272 7 


MMO 


1 , 000 00 


ܘ|ܘ 


28 ,541 15 


0 


2 , 648 119 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY29,1960/MAGHA8,1881 


2 . OFFICE 


2 . OFFICE 

Establishment 
P . F . contr . 
Dearness allowance 
Other allowance 


- , 826 9 9 

553 5ő 
2 ,941 13 3 


11,321 12 


3 . WORKS & ESTATE MAINTENANCE 

House Rent . 
District Board Grant 
Union Board grant 
Income from SantalPalli Land 
Contr. for night watch form 

V . B . C . C . Bank , 
Miscellaneous 
Contr . for Upkeep of Bldgs of 

C . I . Trg . 


5 ,577 80 

300 OO 
249 12 0 


3 WORKS & ESTATE MAINTENANCE 

Establishment 
P . F . contr , , 
Maintenance of Estate 
Maintenance of Santi- & Srini 

ketan Road 
Sanial Paili Land 
Other allowance . 
Road repair & General cleanin : 

at Sriniketen 


6 , 502 09 

436 100 
6 , 762 4 6 
928 100 
231 23 
982 20 


75 00 

52 8 0 
1,000 0 0 


7754 12 


0 


459 


Rk 


Pogut Sloknot for the go * 1956- 57 - Corte 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Rocats 


Towl 
Re . As. Ps . PATUTO 

Description of PAGANE 


Description of Receipts 


Sanitaion 
Watch and Ward 
Repairs and Replacements 
Continetacy . 
Dorino : allontact 
Garden 
Minor CapitalCiponditure 


141 40 
87 93 
147 3 

79 76 
4 : 555 0 

87 15 0 
3117 II 0 


24 , 359 Oo 


4 . T241707SECTION 

Bm fare and fuo . 
Miteellicoe . 


7 , 286 0 

1800 


4 , TANSPORT SBCTION 

Establishment . . 
P . F . contr . . . 
Daarness allowince . 
Fuciind Labriant. . 
Licet ipd Inserna . 
Ropain and Replacement 
Contin popcy . . 


3 ,499 8 

173 70 
1, 380 0 0 
4 ,384 0 0 
1 ,611 4 0 
1 , 390 II 

156 10 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,101 


7 . Or 


y 


11, 795 


3 


5 . POWER HOUS ! 

Sale of Electrle Bart . 
Repal ports , 
Maoule trufe . . 


4 , 59 $ 


3 


10 


é 


S . POwn Hot 

E , ablishmeat . 
PA contr . 
Drorts allowunco 
Purchase of Fleetric Easty 
Materiale , . 
Labour 
Repairs and Replaceptat 
Condagocy . . 


1 , 775 

131 15 
960 0 
4 , 531 19 


419 15 


137 66 
19 13 o 


[PartA 


3 ,079 03 


7 , 981 14 


6 


- 


6 . BAKTET 

Salee 


. 


6 . BAKERY 
ErtebUshatat 
P . F . contr . . 
Dareu alloytace 


" 


340 OO 

7 10 
160 00 


- 


tre,1()) 


- 


1 


307 10 


"_ 


T 


$ 66 

GROUP B - SOCIAL WOR & Villa 
EITN . 
1 . HEALTB & SANITATIS 

( a ) GENERAL 
300 00 Establisbicat , 
720 00 P . F . contr . , . 
240 00 Medline , 
240 00 Trrelllas allonteco 
1 , 184 00 Equipment : 
1, 759 7 3 Coglinstey 

Darpone ullo react . 


droo B .-SOCIAL Voir & YLIACE 

BITN . 
I . HSALTH & SANITATION 

( a ) GENERAL 
Contr . from Viquyu- Bhuptat . 
Contr . from Sikshe - Charcht . 
Contr . from Siksbt- Satn . 
Contr . from C . I. Truining 
Modialfco . 
Sale ofMedicine . 
Miscellaneoue 


5, 104 o 


411 
1 ,918 


O 


1978 
1 ,620 00 


como 
ao 
lol 


PI 


4 ,443 7 3 


9,239 7 0 


2 . AGRICULTUIA 
( a ) EXPBRINBRTS 
Sale of Paddy : 
W . B . Govt . Gnat 


. 


. 


137 13 3 
3 ,000 00 


2 . AQCULTURE 

(a ) EIPBRTHENTS 
Establishment 
P . P . contr . . . 
Darness allowance 
Paddy Varlotal Trial 
Peddy Miqarial Trial 
Repairs and Replacements 
Travelling . . 
Contlagcacy 
Other allomlace . 


9 ,040 00 

367 80 
2 , 280 O o 
629 12 


oaoaobo. 


THEGAZETTIOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1940/MAGAA3,1881 


180 15 


46 14 
149 8 


60 


0 


3 , 137 13 


3 


8 ,763 2 


9 


BRON 


D ) DEMONSTRATION & AIDON 
Garden Crops 
Paddy . : 
Orchard & Nursery 


2, 099 


9 


3 , 4866 


430 13 
1 ,63a 13 


ܗܘܚܗܘ 


Fodder . 


(O ) DEMONSTRATION & E 
Garden Crops , 
Paddy Cultivation 
Orchard and Nursery 
Land Development 
Fodder Coltivation , 
Pishery , 
Extension work in quage 


791 13 6 
1 ,450 10 

377 14 
277 7 
1,624 i 0 
146 13 0 
70 14 0 


. 


Ommooo 


Fishery 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


: 


7 , 698 is 


3 


4 734 II 06 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956 - 57 - Contd . 


S5 


462 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


BY 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


RBCRIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Description of Receipts 


Description of Payments 


- 


- 


, - . 


c ) DAIRY & POULTRY 


(C) DAIRY & POULTRY 


Sale of Milk 
Sale of Madure 
Sale of Eggs and Birds . 
Miscellancous . 
Sale of Live Stock 


47 .901 96 

406 12 0 
477 96 
216 2 6 


Establishment 
P . F . contabution . 
Desmess allowance 
Feeds aro Cattle and Birds . 
Medicinc and Treatment cost . 
Electric charges . 
Repairs and Replacements 
Casual Labour . 
Contingency 
Development of Cattle & Poul 

try in Villages 


5 ,090 79 

362 4 
2 ,560 IO 
39 ,684 II 

725 6 
136 IS 
382 5 
4 ,411 2 
1,038 0 3 


wanglowOn 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


49 ,002 16 


45,441 15 6 


3 . VILLAGE EXTENSION 


3. VILLAGE EXTENSION 


(a ) GENERAL 
Contr , from Prosad Night 

School fund 


84 13 6 


23 , 190 0 

1 , 908 6 
6 , 549 0 
877 0 


(a ) GENERAL 
Establishment 
P . F . contr . . 
Dearness allowance . 
Aid to Village Societies . 
Contr . to. Prasad Vidyalaya , 
Brati Balaka Organisation . 
Fooding & Tray , exp . for Wor 

kers Visiting Sriniketan , 
Villages and other places 
Contingency , . . . 


216 


WOOO 


2 , 102 


360 IO 
II 50 


_ 


_ 


(PARTII 


84 13 


6 


35,213 15 9 


_ 


(b ) ADULT EDUCATION 
W . B , Govt. grant 


12 , 266 86 


3 ,648 00 

275 4 0 
1 ,44000 


: 


( ) ADULT EDUCATION . 
Establishment . . . 
P . F . contr . . 
Dearness allowance 
Adult Education Expansion (in 

duding Training Camp) . 
Travelling and fooding . . 
Contingency 
Allowance to Literary Workers 
Allowance to Social Workers . 


SEO,8(11)] 


438 14 6 
2 , 705 12 3 
3 ,660 00 
7 ,340 00 


12, 266 86 


19, 507 14 


9 


( c ) HEALTH EXTN WORK IN 

VILLAGES 
Sale of Medicine . 
Contr. from Aruna Amita Fund 

Endowment . . 


589 8 6 
322 50 


( c ) HEALTH EXTN WORK IN 

VILLAGES 
Medicine for Village Societies 
Anti- malarial Work & Other 

Prophylactic Measures , 
Diet and Medicine for poor pe 

tient (Aruna Amita Fund ) . 
Travelling . 
Contingency 


305 2 


6 


nonoy 


. 


322 50 
73 12 0 
104 7 3 
805 10 9 


911 13 


6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


(d ) MATERNITY & CHILD WEL 

PARE 
Miscellaneous . . 
W . B . Goyt , Grant towards 

salary of Lady Health Visitor 


17 so 
1, 932 OO 


d ) MATERNITY & CHILD WEL 

PATE 
Establishment 
Drugs . 
Travelling , 
Contingency 
Denness allowance 


1, 704 00 
- 43 13 0 
217 16 

64 9 6 
840 0 0 


1,949 50 


2,869 80 


50,000 OO 


RECURRING GRANTS 
· Block Grant W . B . Govt . 
W . B . Govt. Grant for mainte 
Dance of Audio - Vb ial for 

1955 - 56 
do . 1956 - 57 $ 


4,500 DO 


54 ,500 OO 


46 


Ruceipu od Papa 


Slalome for saw year 1956- 57 - Caul. 


404 


XBETS 


Total 
Rs. At. Ps. 


Total 
Rs. As. Po 


PATUH 
Decrittion of Posts 


Description of Receipes 


a ) C . I , BITIDISION & REHABILITE 
TION 

GENERAL 
Seles To . . 
Stores . 
Trunk all credit . 
Purchased Booka . 
Commission Earned . 
Contr . from Werving . 
Cout , from Cupoatry . . 


SS 


194 


491 


(0 ) C I. EITIRIOK & REHABILITA 

TION 

O GENERAL 
2 , 108 16 Establishment 
IO 12 O 

P , F cont , 
33 4 ó Dearnese allo lice 

Soo Tekophone charger 
114 15 Suationery and Printing 
42709 13 0 Travelling , . 
1 , 569 14 0 Advertisement, Exhibition mid 

Sampling . 
Commission on Boo ! 
Electric charges 
Contingency . 
Interest of Lous , 
Selat Tu . 
Forwarding for Y . B . Boots . 
Liceor and Tares . 
Entertainpocht . 
Esponse for deale . . 


238 11 

86 
- 70 

47 
5 ,000 o 


eܘܘܚܚܘܪܪܢܝܚܘܝܘ 


OOOOOOOOOOOO 


THEGAZETFLOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1000/MAGHA#18 


2 ,688 


39 14 


18,552 36 


9,043 19 0 


Loan Account 
Repayment of Love 


. 


. 


19, 996 B 


0 


) Funko 
Salas . . 
For trdit - 


. 


. 


77 , 44 


% 


( U PUTIN 

PRODUCTION Cost 
Rae pechak 


. 


75 is 


, 


6 


: 


Remate lood 


. B . Gori 


1 , 475 


3 


92 , 191 $ 
27 , 198 


قطعا 


Powered 


Equippet 
Repair cond Replaceae 
Costi 


oavao 


[PAKTA 


7 12 


SELLING COST 
Fonwarding charges . 
Rehare . 
Commission on sales . . 
OFFICE COST 
Proportion of General Expenses 


956 10 
1 , 142 2 
7, 726 8 


voiooww 


Sec.9(11)] 


-ZA 


4 ,709 13 


79 ,020 10 


0 


94 , 351 7 9 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


( w ) CARPENTRY 

Sales - - 
Miscellaneous 
Forwarding 


23, 128 14 9 

18 56 
96 13 0 


VID CARPENTRY 

PRODUCTION COST 
Fstablishment 
P . F . contr . . 
Dearness allowance 
Materials 
Labour : 
Power and fuel 
Repairs and Replacements 
Tools & Equipments 
Contingency 
SEI I ING Cast 
Forvarding charges . 
Rebate . 
Commission , 
OFFICE COST 
Proportion ofGeneral expenses 


LSLLA 


1 ,0200 

84 12 

180 0 
14 , 301 II 
7 .- 78 13 
159 12 
61 15 


.,.,,.. 


DOOMOOOooouo 


70 


5 


... 


4139 


THEGALETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


1 . 569 14 


23 ,244 


I 


3 


25 . 790 15 


WORKS & ESTATE MAINTENANCE 

Srore Stock maintenance 


WORKS AND FSTATF MAINTENANCE 
3 , 919 56 Store Stock maintenance 


4. 246 


9 


9 


Farmarked Donations 

Expenses for Leprosy Clinic . 


1 .393 3 


C 


2 - 410 14 


6 


SOCIAL WELFARE RESEARCH 

Salary of Research Scholars 
Office including Typist. Publi 
cation and Printing question 

Ire 
Conveyance : 


549 7 C 
60 12 0 

- 
3 .021 16 


465 


Receipts ană Payments Stalement for the year 1956 - 57 - Lonid , 


466 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Total 
Re As. Ps, 


RECEIPIS 


PAYMENTS 


Description of Receipts. 


DescripIion of Payments 


W . B . Govt grant for Appren 

ticeship Trg . . . . 


1. 265 0 


0 


Ex naditure on Appreaticeship 
Training in village Development 


1,260 OO 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


W . B . Gort. Graal foi obser 
vance of Universal Children s 
day 


197 6 


197 6 6 


Liniversal Children s day . 
CAPIT41 EXPENSES FROM GRINTS 
Education Development Scheme 

No. 6 
Improvement of Dye House at 

Silpasadada 
Development of Silpasadana 
C . J Dev , Scheme No. 3 


* 416 6 0 
489 12 0 
422 7 0 
174 60 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


7 -502 15 0 


4 .875 00 


Power House - Sale of Machinery . 
Sale of Furniture, Equipment Alc. 

Typewriter ) 


275 oo 


CONSIGNMENT 

Sake of Y . B , Books 


. 


. 


1. 374 14 


0 


CONSIGNMENT 
V . B , Books 


, 


, 


, 


, 


574 14 0 


SUNDRY CREDITORS 
General . 
Sundry Deluction 


SUNDRY CREDITORS 
460 93 General 
19 , 529 12 6 Sundry Deductions 


6 ,842 0 
19 , 529 12 


3 
6 


19 , 990 59 


26371 129 


(Part 


Advance 
Advances against salary 
Imprest 


87, 886 66 Adrance 

6 , 127 8o Advance against salary 
11, 204 II 9 Loan ! rom General Fund 


44,574 19 

6 , 127 80 
33 . 604 7 3 


6 


Suspense 
Deposit-Gencial 
Deposit - Sriniketan Slop . 
Deposit - Santiniketan Shop . . 
Deposit-Consignment Salu . 
Deposit - V . B . C . C . Bank Ltd . 
Other Govt. Stipent and Surolar 

ship 


1, 254 2 9 Imprest . . . . 
9 , 781 9 6 Suspense 
24 , 931 IS 6 Deposit -Geilera ! 
19 , 759 7 3 Deposit - Sriniketan Shup 
34 ,73 Ii 0 Deposit - Santiniketan Shin 
1 ,015 6 Deposit - Consignment Sall . 


9, 796 O 
2 ,567 2 
8 . 763 2 
2.4, 211 0 
14, 432 3 
19 . 793 13 


9 


3 , 13 : 20 Deposit - V B . C . C . Bark Lid . 

Other Govt. Stirend & Schilar 


3 -530 4 
3, 747 12 


6 
9 


ship 


1 , 99 .913 


+ 


3 


2 ,20, 747 99 ; 


---------- 


5 ,37 ,65 ; 


0 


Total- Palli Sangaihan Vibhaga 


Total — Palii Samgathan Piaga . 
Total - GeneralOfic . Santinikatan 
Total Palli Samga hana Vithaga 


7. 48 ,907 15 6 
- 28 ,61, 631 8 8 

7 ,48, 907 15 6 


35, 07 , 145 33 Total General Office Suosiniketan ) 
5,37, 09 - 

Total Palli Samgathana Vibhaga 


il 


--- 


Opening Bank Balancs : 
State Bank of India , Calcutta 

do . Sliam123 

do , Bolpur . 
United Bank of India Ltd ., Bul 
pur . 

Dharmacola 
de, P . S . V c. Boin ir 


Clomipg Bark Balance , 
6 , 50 ,30 - 9 $ State Bank of India , Bolpur . 
2 ,772 159 de 

Calcutta . . 
1 ,43 , 522 I ! I 

Shambazar 

do . A c . 2 Calcutta . 
12 ,900 12h United Bank of India , Ltd ., 
1 ,657 I 

Bolpur 
2 ,001 - 5 do. Dharmatoia 

P . S . V . Alc . 


- SEC,3(ii)]T-----T 

"TÅEGAZETIEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


96 ,893 8 + 
9 , 87, 438 II 2 

2 , 181 9 9 
1,35,999 00 


do . 


21, 282 12 0 
2 ,326 13 II 
706 I 3 


do . 


Grand Total 


48, 57 ,368 


7 


Grand Tera 


, 


. 


. 


48, 57 ,368 0 7 


Lot 


468 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT 
Reccipis an . Payments Statement for the ge 17 1956 - 57 


- 
- 


- 
- 
- 
- 


- 
--- 


Total 


-- 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


- 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Rs. As. Ps. 


Description of Reccitas 


-- 


Description of Payments 


-- 


-- 


Sale ( including Agency Publications ) 

Purchased books, Government 
Put lications 

100 . . . . 
Hindi 


1 , 12 , 984 I 

56 . 500 3 0 
15 ,519 09 

215 0 
2 ,6 - 5 IO O 


- 


6 ,20,466 12 9 

451 12 


- 


Commission on agency Publications 
Discount on Purchased books . 
Commission on Miscellaneous Ros 

alty 
Commission on Govt. Publications . 
Interest . 


6 ,20,918 99 

3 ,256 26 
2 , 8 ,11 15 6 

36 o 6 
41 - 6 
63 12 9 


Paper . . . . . 
Printing . . . . . 
Dinding , 
Drawing , Lettering , and Photographs 
Editing & Proof- reading . 
Last year s Liabilities Outstanding 
cost of Paper, Printing , Binding 
and other liabilities ) . 
Purchased boots 
Agency Publications . 
Sales Tax 
Government Publicațions : : 


37 ,063 8 6 
11 , 758 10 6 
3 ,915 7 6 
417 46 


THEGAZETTEofINDIA:JANUARY23,1060/MAGHA5,1881 


- 


-- 


Postage (see cortra ! : 


ROYALTY ; 


General 
Hindi 


. 


. 


, 


, 


2 ,286 12 9 . 

7 3C 


2 .293 15 9 


( a ) R .N . Tagore & Other Authors 
Hindi 
My Boyhood Dars 


41, 889 89 

27 6 6 
112 00 


42. 928 15 3 


Packing (see contra ) : 
General . 
Hindi , , 


, 


, 


519 4 

o 9 
91 5 


6 
o 
0 


(b ) Contr. to General Office : 

( I ) Towards sale of books . 
( 11) From Appropriation Alc . 


47 ,018 13 
17 , 981 2 


9 
3 


Assan 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


631 26 


65,cco oo 


Commission ( on sa es } : General , 
Hindi . . . . . 


1, 19 , 460 

102 


9 II 
2 9 


* 1,19 ,562 


5 


, 


. 


Packing ( see contra 
Freight : 
Cartage & Cooly 


1 , 284 1 
997 5 
309 I 


Humor 


9 
9 
9 


- 
- 
- (PARTII 

- 


5 ,354 4 

432 10 
1 , 721 1 


-- 


Within8(11)] 


- 


1 ,390 1 
65 , 125 10 


- 


24, 729 8 
19 , 38 - 8 

565 0 


1 , 111 


PUBLICITY & ADVERTISEMENT 
Advertisement 
Publicity 
Catalogue & Price list . 
Text book Publicity (inclusive, 

Adyt. Honorarium , travelling , 
postage , approval fees ) . 
Salary 
Dearness allowance 
Enhanzed Dearness allowance . 
Personal allowance . . 
Special allowance , 
Temporary appointment during 

rush season 
Appointment in Leave vacancy 
Honorarium to Adhyaksha . 
Contr . to Proy, Fund 
Medical Aid 
House Rent . 
Municipal Tax 
Electric charges 
Trade & Signboard Lice Ice 
Telephone calls . 
Insurance ( Fire etc . ) 
Postage ( see contra ) . 
Forms and Stationery (inclusive 

of paper, printing, binding 

of cashmemos, ledger books) . 
Contingency & Sundry expenses 
Revenue stamp 
Bank charges . 
Contr . to V . B , Sammilabi 
Contr. to Office canteen . 
Uniforms 
Travelling and Conveyance 
Tram and Bus fare . . 


00000 000OOOOooaaOlowwapow 

owotoDowo: 


5 


1 ,952 4 
3 , 300 0 
5 ,240 

506 15 
2 , 888 0 
1 , 552 5 
1, 231 13 

237 0 
1 , 662 
2 ,542 
4 ,027 6 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


4 , 179 14 


3 


705 7 3 
24 50 


729 12 
122 3 


3 


600 


4 ,316 


483 


nonoow 


27 
200 10 


MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE : 


Oil and Lubrication 
Repairs and Replacement 
Motor Insurance 
Motor Tax . . . 


1 , 820 20 
2 , 126 69 
416 6 0 
148 00 


469 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT 


478 


Receipts and Payments Statement for the year 1956 - 57 - Curitd . 


Total 


Tota ! 


RECEIPTS 


Rs. As. Ps . 


PAYMENTS 


Rs . As. Ps. 


Description of Receipt: 


Description of Payments 


-----—-:-- 


WORKS & BưILDINGS 
Repairs to Buildings Lalbari and 

Santiniketan Bldgs . 
Electric Installations 
Upkeep and Maintenance 


---- 


207 06 
602 36 
809 4 o 


-- 


LIBRARY 
Subscription to Juurnals and 

Periodicals . 
Binding of Library books and 

Magazines . . . 


THEGALERIEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1980/MAGHA$,1881 


1 


54 8 0 
95 12 0 
150 4 0 


- 


-- 


= 


-= 


PARTJI 


VISYA- BHARATI PATRIKA 
Receipts and Payments Sialcment for the year 1956- 57 – Cord . 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps. 


Total 
Rs. As. Ps 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Description of Receipts 


Description of Payments 


Des 


. 


SUNDAY RECEIPTS 
Subscription , Sale etc .) 
Sales 
Subscription . . 
Advertisement 
Postage ( see contra ) . 
Packing . . 


2 . - 72 II 5 
569 0 0 
303 70 
441 5 3 
25 00 


717 


SUNDRY EXPENSES 

Paper - 
2 ,616 00 Printing . 

508 00 Binding 
5. 672 4 0 Block . 
174 0 0 Drawing and Lettering 
I I O Honorarium to contributors 

Postage ( see contra ) . 
Packing . . . 
Freight . 
Forms and Stationeries . 
Contingency . . 
Revenue Stamps 
Advertisement & Publicity 
Allowances , 
Bank charges , . 
Cartage & Cooly , 
Tram and Bus fare , 
Commission on sales 
Commission on Advertisements 
Last year s liabilities 


374 14 

10 26 
164 1 2 

7 3 C 


= SEC.$(41)]------ 

DOOMOO cinta 

UOKOQOO THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 

moor 


550 00 


497 14 0 
999 129 
371 00 


9 .877 14 


v 


- 


ADVANCE & DEPOSIT ETC . 

Deposit 

Subscription in Advance . 
LAST YEAR S RECEIVABLE 

Outstapling Advertisements . 
Sundry Debtors - 
Appropriation a, c . 


8 ,971 50 

DEPOSIT & ADVANCEETC . 
72 13 9 Deposit , 
490 8 0 Subscription in Advance 

Postage in Advance 
2 , 354 0 0 Imprest 

5 1 0 
20 00 


86 3 3 
243 40 
62 00 
17 IS 3 


2 ,942 6 


9 


409 66 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


471 


472 


VISV4- B HARATI PATRIKA 
Receipts & Payments Statement for the year 1956 -57 - Conid . 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


TOTAL 
Rs. AS , Ps . 


TOTAL 
Rs. AS. Ps . 


- 


- 


- 


Description of Receipts 


Duscription of Payments 


CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
Furniture & Equipments 

Blocks 
Purchase of Copyright 
Library books 
Addition to Depreciation Fund 

lavestment . . . 
Appropriation a c . 
Less : Return ofbooks adjusted 

with Sundry debtors 


3 ,849 15 6 
1 , 438 10 3 
3 , 110 00 

2.40 99 
3 ,586 10 O 


672 31 

222 5 9 
- - - - - - -- 


lotoobowa 

__---77: 


TIIEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


449 9 4 


Repayment of Loan to General 

Office 


2 ,500 OO 
20 , 175 6 10 


--- 


4 ,057 26 

92 70 
117 7 3 


--- 


3 .999 I 3 

17 15 9 

97 12 3 
I1,791 136 


NON -REVENUE CONTRA ITEMS 

(Advance & Deposits ) 
Advance 
Suspense . . 
Itoprest . 
Advance Royalty 
Deposit 
Miscellaneous Royalty 
Sales Tax (see contra ) : 

Generad 
Hindi . . . 


I 


- 


NON -REVENUE COXTR . ITEMS 
( Advance & Deposits ) 
Advance 
Suspense 
Imprest , 
Advance Royalty . . 
Deposit : 
Deposit : Sale proceeds of 

Mahatma Gandhi , 
Deposit : Sale proceeds 

Portraits 
Sales Tax (see contra ) : 

General 
Assam , . . . 


24 ,774 15 O 
296 9 3 
48 4 O 


--- 


12 , 988 6 

2 9 


6 
3 


. 


12 , 990 15 9 


[PARTJE 


7 ,719 130 

54 IS 5 


- , - 4 12 


6 


1 


Sundry Debtors 
( Last year s ac. ) 
Less : for Return of books 


Prcpaid expenses etc. . 


63,071 II y 

222 6 9 


. 


62 ,849 50 


2 ,064 [IO 
39,226 4 6 


SEC,3(ii)] 


--- 


Deposit : Sale proceeds of 

Mahatma Gandhi 
Interest on Fund account 
Appropriation a /c . 
Prepaid Expenses , 


82 76 
518 8 0 

4 oo 
1 ,739 13 0 
94,091 120 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY23,1960/MAGHA3,1881 


473 


PUBLISHING DEPARTMENT & VISVA - BHARATI PATRIKA 
Receipts & Paymenis Statement for the year 1956 -57 - contd . 


474 


TOTAL 
Rs. , A . P . 


TOTAL 
Rs. A . P . 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Description of Receipts 


Description of Payments 


| 


1 , 35, 999 00 
91 , 832 8 10 


OPENING CASH AT BANK AND IN 

HAND 
State Bank of India 
United Bank of India , College 

Street 
United Bank of India , Jorasanko 
United Bank of India , Bolpur 
United Bank of India , College 

Street ( A / c . Patrika ) . . 
United Bank of India , College 

Street ( A / c . Hindi . 
Pioneer Bank (in liquidation ), 

Bolpur . .. , 
Calcutta Commercial Bank 

( in liquidation ) 
Cash and Cheques in hand 


CLOSING CASH BALANCE 
1 ,54, 564 7 1 Deposit with Artha - Sachiva . 

State Bank of India 
9 , 603 14 3 United Bank of India , College 
7 . 318 IO 7 Street 
1,029 14 6 United Bank of India, Bulpur , 

Pioneer Banklinliquidation ) . 
2 ,912 10 9 Calcutta Commercial Bank 

( in liquidation ) 

United Bank of India , College 
1, 944 10 10 Street A Patrikal 
323 0 9 

510 10 6 
5 ,049 30 Cash & Cheques in hand 
1 ,83,257 2 3 


25 ,614 7 

882 12 6 
323 09 
510 10 6 
6 .607 39 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY28,1960/MAGHA3,1881 

-- 


8,874 8 9 
1, 98 ,644 4 9 


ayt , 


9 ,19,851 8 9 


--- [PARTII 

- 


PROVIDENT FIND Al 


SEC 
. 
8 
( 
ii 
) 
] 


Income and Expenditure Ale for the rest 1956 - 57 


EXPENDITU RE 


INCOME 


Rs. A . P 
1467 12 O 


To Contingency . 
To Income Tax . 


. 
. 


Rs. A . P . 
327 IO 
2 ,047 80 


. 
. 


By Interest on Loan 
By Interest on Investments on 

Govt . Papers 
On Howrah Bridge Loan 


25, 903 46 

243 12 0 


26 , 147 06 


To Profit carried over to Balance 

Sheet . 


ByMisc . Receipts . 


, 


3,772 20 


29,012 56 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
25 
, 
1960 
/ 
MAGHA 
8 
, 
1881 


31 , 386 14 


6 


31,386 14 6 


w 


475 


476 


PROVIDENT FUND A /C. 
Receipts & Payments Statement for the year 1956- 57 - contd . 


RECEIPTS 


PAYMENTS 


Deposit 
Lapse Fund 
Advance 

. 
Suspense 
Members Subscription . 
Visva -Bharati Contr. , 
Interest on Loan 
Misc . Receipts . . 
Interest on lovestmcat . 


Rs , A . P . 
3 , 930 12 6 
2 , 336 9 3 
38, 744 70 

1,158 116 
67,696 100 
68 ,733 20 
1 ,467 12 0 
3,772 2 O 
26 , 147 06 


Investments (Govt. papers) . 
Members Fund , , , 
Deposits 
Lapse Fund 
Advance . . . . 
Suspense , 
Contingency 
Income Tax 


Rs. 4 . P . 
29,617 3 0 

8 ,365 I 6 
10,328 I 0 

528 SO 
44 , 264 0 0 
1, 158 it 6 

327 1 0 
2 ,047 80 


. 
. 


2 , 13 ,987 2 9 


1 , 96 , 635 15 0 


OPENING BALANCES AT BANKB 


CLOSING BALANCES AT BANKS 
State Bank of India . Bolpur , 
State Bank of India , Calcutta . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JAN.23,1960/MAGHA3,1881(PARTIL-Sre.8(ii)] 


State Bank ofIudia , Bolpur . 
State Bank of India , Caloutta . 


7 ,702 39 
33 ,284 33 


7 ,217 11 0 
51, 119 IS 9 


40 , 986 70 


58 , 337 10 


9 


2 , 54 , 973 99 


2 ,54 , 973 99 


[No. Act. / 1817 / 59-60 .] 
S . C . CHAKRAVARTY , 

Registrar , 
Visva- Bharati University . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOYT, OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBI ICATIONS, DELHI, 1960 


