at Snbia 


^he ©azette 





PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SIMLA, SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1963 (ASADHA 1, 1885) 


Separate paging ia given to this Part in order that it may be hied as a separate compilation 


PART III— SECTION 4 

Miscellaneous Notifications Including Notifications, Orders, Advertisements 
and Notices Issued by Statutory Bodies 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA 

(Chartered Accountants) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi- 1, the 10 th June 1963 

No. 1-C A(30) / 63 — -The following draft of the Regula-^ 
tions under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 
(XXXVIII of 1949), which it is proposed to make in exer 
cise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (3) of 
Section 30 of the said Act, is published for information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is 
hereby given that the draft will be taken up for considera- 
tion on or after the lOtft August 1963. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the date 
specified will be considered by the Council of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India, New Delhi. 

For the existing Chartered Accountants Regulations 
1949, substitute the following: — 

CHAPTER I 
Preliminary 

1. Short title and commencement — (1) These Regula- 
tions may be called the Chartered Accountants Regula- 
tions, 1963. 

(2) They shall come into force on such date as the 
-pouncil may by notification in the Gazette of India ap- 
point in this behalf. 

2. Interpretation — ( 1) In these Regulations, unless there 
is anything repugnant in the subject or context— 

(i) “Act'' means the Chartered Accountants Act, 
1949 (XXXVIII of 1949); 

(ii) “annual meeting" means the first meeting of the 
Council held after the 1st day of August of each 
year; 

(iii) “appropriate Form” means a Form contained in 
Schedule ‘A', suitable for the purpose, modified 
where necessary; 


(iv) “articled clerk’’ means a clerk engaged under 
articles by a member entitled to train articled 
clerks under these Regulations; 

(v) “certificate of practice” means a certificate grant- 
ed under these Regulations entitling the holder 
to practise as a chartered accountant; 

(vi) “fellow" means a fellow of the Institute; 

(vii) “graduate” means a graduate of a University con- 
stituted by law in India or a graduate of any 
other University recognised by the Central 
Government; 

(viii) “member” means a member of the Institute; 

(ix) “President” means the President for the time 
being elected under section 12 and in his absence 
the Vice-President for the time being elected 
under section 12; 

(x) “Professional address” means an address of the 
place of business that is to say, the place where 
a member is carrying on his profession (or where 
he is carrying on the profession at more than one 
place, the principal place) or the place of employ- 
ment if he is employed and shall include, where 
necessary, the place of residence if the member 
neither carries on the profession nor is employed; 

(xi) “Schedule” means a Schedule annexed to these 
Regulations; 

(xii) "Secretary” means the Secretary or any Deputy 
or Assistant Secretary appointed by the Council 
or any person acting as the Secretary under the 
direction of the Council; 

(xiii) "section” and “sub-section" mean a section and 
sub-section of the Act; 

(xiv) "Service as an audit clerk” means service as an 
audit clerk in the office of a member entitled to 
engage and train articled clerks under these Regu- 
lations. 

(2) All words and expressions used herein and not de- 
fined in these Regulations but defined in the Act shall have 
the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act. 

(3) The General Clauses Act 1897 (X of 1897) shall ap- 

E so far as may be, to the interpretation of these Regu- 
ons as it applies to the interpretation of the Central 
Acts. 


( 309) 


L/P105GI 


810 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 [ Part III— Sec i 


CHAP 1 ER II 
Members 

3. Register — The Register of members shall be in the 
appropriate Form. 

4. Qualifications for members— Subject to the provisions 
of sections 4 and 8, a peison shall be entitled to have his 
name entered in the Register if he: 

(a) has passed ihe examinations and completed the 
practical training specified in Schedule B; or 

(bj possesses qualifications recognised by the Council 
as equivalent to the examinations and the practi- 
cal training referred to in clause (a) above; or 

(c) is eligible under clauses (i), (ui) or (iv) of sub- 
section (1) of section 4: 

Pro v ided that a pejrson shall not be entitled if he, in 
the opinion of the Council, 

(a) has at any time solicited clients or professional 
work either directly oi indirectly, by circular, 
advertisement, personal communication or inter- 
view or by any other means; or 

(b) has at _jmy time advertised his professional attain- 
ments or sei vices; or 

(c) has done at any time anything which aims at 
publicity or amounts to canvassing with a view 
to setting up practice as a chartered accountant; 
or 

(d) is not a fit peison to be enrolled as a member in 
view of his antecedents, 

5. Application for membership — (1) (a) A person who 
desires to have his name enter eel in the Register shall sub- 
mit to the Secretary an application, in the appropriate 
Form, together with documentary evidence about his eligi- 
bility for membership and the lee pit-scribed in these 
Regulations. 

(b) An associate who desires to be admitted as a fellow 
shall submit to the Secretary an application, in the appro- 
priate Form, together with the prescribed entrance lee. 

(2) The applicant shall furnish such further infoima 
tion as the Council may, from tune to tunc, require. 

(3) For the purposes of sub-section (8) of section 5, an 
associate shall be deemed to have acquired experience nor- 
mally acquired as a result of continuous practice for a 
period of five years as a chartered accountant, if he: 

(i) being in Government service, is oidinarily hold- 
ing or has ordinarily held for a continuous 
period of not less than five years, any post in 
Class I or equivalent thereto, not below the rank 
of (a) an Income-tax Officer, (b) an Accounts 
Officer, (c) an Audit Officer, (d) a Financial 
Officer, (e) an Officer in the Department of Com- 
pany Law Administration, (f) a Deputy Registrar 
of Co-operative Societies, (g) an Officer in the 
Department of Commeicial Taxes, etc.; 

(ii) being employed in a private or Government, 
industrial, commercial or trading undertaking, is 
ordinarily holding or has ordinarily held for a 
continuous period of not less than five years, a 
post not below the rank of a Chief Accountant, 
a Deputy Chief Accountant, an Internal Auditor 
or any equivalent post carrying duties l elating to 
accounts, cost accounts, audit, financial, taxation 
and/or secretarial woik; 

(iii) being employed under a statutoiy authority, is 
ordinarily holding or has ordinarily held for a 
continuous period of not less than five yeais, any 
post equivalent lo anv of those mentioned in 
clause (ii) above; 

(iv) being employed under a local authority, is ordi 
narily holding or has ordinarily held for a 
continuous period of not less than five years, any 
post equivalent to any of fhose mentioned in clause 
(ii) above, provided the local authority has with- 
in its jurisdiction a population of not less than 
five lakhs of persons during each of the five yeais 
of his service; 


(v) has served for a continuous period of not less than 
five years as a full time paid assistant under a 
chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such 
charteied accountants: 

Provided that the Council may, in its discretion, con- 
sider anv other cxpeiicnce not specifically mentioned in 
clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above, as equivalent to the 
experience normally acquired as a result of continuous 
practice for a period oi five years as a chartered 
accountant. 

Explanation 1 — A member shall be deemed to have ac- 
quired the cxpei iencc normally acquired as a result ot 
continuous practice foi a period of five years as a chartered 
accountant; 

(a) if he has served continuously for a period of not 
less than five years in any one or more posts 
mentioned in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) 
above; or 

(b) if he has partly been in practice and partly served 
in any one or more posLs mentioned in clauses 
(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) above, so that the total 
period of practice and service shall not be less 
than five yeais, provided there is no break 
between the practice and the service. 

Explanation 11 — For the purpose of clause (ii) above, 
the private or Government, industrial, commercial or 
trading undertaking shall have at all material times (a)- 
a minimum paid up capital of twenlvfivc lakhs of rupees 
or (b) a minimum turnover ot fifty lakhs of rupees or 

(c) a minimum paid-up capital of ten lakhs of rupees and 
a minimum turnover of thirty lakhs of rupees. 

6. Errs — (1) A person applying for the membership of 
the Institute shall pay an entrance fee of three hundred 
rupees : 

Provided that he may pay one hundred mpees along 
with his application and the balance of two hundred 
rupees in two instalments of one hundred rupees each, the 
first to he paid within twelve months and the second 
within twenty four months of the date ot his being enrolled 
as a member. 

(2) An associate applying for admission as a fellow 
shall pay an entiance fee ot two hundred rupees. 

(3) An associate shall pay an annual membership fee of 
twenty-eight rupees which shall be due and payable on the 
1st day of April in each yeai : 

Provided that half the amount ot the annual member- 
ship fee shall be payable by a person admitted on or aftei 
the 1st day of October and before the 1st day of April next 
following. 

(4) A fellow shall pay an animal membership fee of 
eighty-three rupees which shall be due and payable on the 
1st day of April in each year: 

Provided that an associate, on being admitted as a" 
fellow in the course of the year, shall pay fifty-five rupees 
only for that yeat. 

(5) A member in practice shall pay an annual certificate 
fee of twenty-eight rupees which shall be clue and payable 
on the 1st day of April in each year. 

(ti) A member shall pay to the Council, for the benefit 
of the Regional Council within whose territorial jurisdic- 
tion his professional addtess is situate, an annual fee of 
six rupees which shall be due and payable on the 1st day of 
April in each year. 

7. Refund of fee — A person whose application for ad- 
mission to the membership of the Institute or whose 
application for a certificate of practice is not accepted by 
the Council, shall be entitled to a refund of the fee paid 
by him, 

8. Certificate of membership — If the application is 
accepted by the Council, the applicant's name shall be 
entered in the Register and a certificate of membership in 
the appropriate Form shall be issued to him. 



Past III— Sec 4] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


311 


9. Certificate of piai tire— (]) (i) A member may apply 
to ihc Council for a certificate entitling him to practise 
as a charteied aummtanl thnmghoui India. 

(a) \n application foe the* giaru of lencwal oi a cetti- 
firatc shall be accompanied b\ the annual ceitificate fee 
and shall be in the appropiiatc form. 

(iii) The certificate shall be issued in the appropriate 
Form and shall be valid until the 30th day of June of the 
following year, 

(iv) The validity of the ccttificutc issued in the appro- 
priate Form shall be extended from time lo time by a 
ceitificate by the Secretary in the approptiate Form. 

(2) On his ceasing to be in piactice, a member shall 
inform the Council as soon as may be but in any case not 
later than cane month from the date he ceased to practise. 

10. Cancellation of a ceitificate of practice — (1) A certi- 
ficate of practice shall be cancelled — 

(i) when the name o£ the holdei of the certificate is 
removed from the Register; or 

(ii) when the Council is satisfied that such certificate 
was issued on the basis of inconect, misleading or 
false information, oi bv mistake oi inadvenence: 
or 

(iii) when a member has ceased to practise. 

(2) The cancellation of a certificate shall he effective;-- 

(a) in a case falling undei clause (i) of sub-regula- 
tion (1) fiom the date on which and during the 
period for which the name of the holder of the 
ceitificate was removed from the Register; and 

(b) in any other case from such date and for such 
period as the Council mav deteimine. 

(3) Where a certificate is cancelled, the date from which 
and the period for which the certificate shall stand can- 
celled, shall be communicated to the membei and shall 
also he notified in the Gazette of India 

11. Complaints and enquiries relating to misconduct 
of members — (1) Subject to the provisions of this regula- 
tion, a complaint against a member under section 21 shall 
be investigated and all other enquiries relating to mis 
conduct of such member shall be held by the Disciplinary 
Committee: 

Provided that if the subject matter of a complaint is, 
in the opinion of the President, substantially the same as 
has been covered by any pievious complaint or informa- 
tion received, the Secretary shall file the said complaint 
without any fuither action and inform the complainant 
accordingly. 

(2) A complaint under section 21 shall be in the appro- 
priate Form, 

(3) Such complaint shall contain the following parti- 
culars, namely: 

(a) the acts and omissions which, if proved, would 
render the person complained against guilty of 
professional or other misconduct. 

(b) the oral and/or documentary evidence relied 
upon in support of the allegations made in the 
complaint. 

(4) The Secretary shall return a complaint which is not 
in the appropriate Form or which does not contain the 
aforesaid particulars to the complainant for tepresenta- 
tion after removing the objections thereto and within such 
time as the Secretary may specify. 

(f>) Ordinarily within sixty days of the receipt of a com- 
paint under section 21, the Secretary shall — 

(a) if the complaint is against a member, send a copy 
thereof to such member at his professional address 
or his residential address, it he has no piofessional 
address, as entered in the Register; 

(b) if the complaint is against a firm, send a copy 
thereof to the firm at the address of its head office, 
as entered in the register of offices and firms, with 
a notice calling upon the firm to disclose the name 
of the member who is answerable to the chaige of 
misconduct and send a cop\ of the complaint to 
him. 


explanation - — A notice lo the firm shall be deemed to 
be a notice to all the members who are partners or emp- 
loyees of that him. 

(fi) A member against whom the complaint is made 
(hereinafter referred to as the respondent) may, within 
fourteen days of the sen ice of a copy of the complaint 
under sub-regulation (5), or within such time as may be 
extended by the Secretary, foiward to the Secretary a 
written statement in his defence verified in the same 
manner as the complaint, 

(7) On a perusal of the complaint and the written state- 
ment, if any, the President may cal) for such additional 
particulars or documents connected therewith either from 
the complainant or the respondent as he may consider 
expedient. 

(8) (i) If on a perusal of the complaint and the written 
statement, if any, and. other relevant documents, the 
Council is of opinion that there is a pnma facie case 
against the respondent, the Council shall cause an enquiry 
to be made in the matter by the Disciplinary Committee. 

(ii) If, on the other hand, the Council is of opinion that 
there is no prirna facie case against the respondent, the 
complaint shall he hied and the complainant and the res- 
pondent shall be infoimed accordingly. 

(9) (i) Any notice issued by the Secretary under this 
regulation shall be sent to the member or the firm, as the 
case mav be, by registered post with acknowledgement due. 

(ii) If any such notice is returned unserved with an 
endorsement to the effect that the addressee had refused to 

. accept the notice, the notice shall be deemed to have been 
setved. 

(iii) If the notice is returned with an endorsement to 
the effect that the addressee cannot be found at the address 
given, the Secretary shall ask the complainant to supply to 
him the correct address of the member or the firm, as the 
case may be. 

(iv) A fresh notice shall be issued to the member or the 
firm at the correct address. 

(10) The piovision relating to a notice shall apply 
'mutatn mutandis' to a lettei. 

12. Information relating to misconduct of members — 
The procedure laid down in regulation 11 shall, so far 
as mav be, apply to any information received under section 
21 . 

13. Procedure in any enquiry before the Disciplinary 
Committee ■ — (1) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to 
place before the Disciplinary Committee all the facts 
brought to his knowledge which arc relevant for the pur- 
pose of the enquiry by the Disciplinary Committee. 

(2) The respondent shall have a right to defend himself 
before the Disciplinary Committee either in person or 
through a legal practitioner or any other member. 

(3) Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations, 
the Disciplinary Committee shall have the power to regu- 
late its procedure in such manner as it considers just and 
expedient, 

(4) Where, in the course of an enquiry, the personnel 
of the Disciplinary Committee is changed for any reason 
whatsoever, the respondent shall have the right to have 
the enquiry made de novo and if he exercises that right, 
the enquiry shall be conducted de novo. 

11. Report of the Disciplinary Committee - — (1) The 
Disciplinary Committee shall submit its report to the 
Council. 

(2) The Council shall consider the report of the Dis- 
ciplinary Committee and if, in its opinion, a further en- 
quity is necessary, shall cause such fuither enquiry to be 
made whereupon a further report shall be submitted by 
the Disciplinary Committee. 

(3) The Council shall, on the consideration of the 
report and the further report, if any, record its findings. 

(4) If the finding is that there is no case for passing one 
of the orders specified in clauses (a) or (b) of sub-section 
(4) of Section 21, the complainant and the respondent 
shall be informed accordingly. 



312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1903 


[ Past III — Seo. 4 


15. Procedure in a hearing before the Council — (1) If 
the Council, in view ol its findings, is of opinion that 
then? is a case fot passing one of the orders specified in 
clauses (a) oj (b) of sub section (4) of section 21, it shall — 

(a) furnish to the tespondent a copy of the report of 
the Disciplinary Committee and ai copy of its 
findings; and 

(b) give him a notice indicating the order proposed 
to be passed against him and calling upon him 
to appear before it on a specified dale or if he 
does not wish to be heard in person, to send 
within a specified time, such representation in 
writing as he may wish to make against the pro- 
posed order. 

(2) The scope of the hearing or of the representation 
in writing, as the case may be, shall be restricted to the 
order proposed to be passed. 

(3) The Council shall, after hearing the respondent, if 
he appears in person, or after considering the representa- 
tion, if any, made by him, pass such orders as it may think 
fit. 

(4) The orders passed by the Council shall be communi- 
cated to the complainant and the respondent. 

16. Notification of removal — The removal of a member’s 
name from the Register shall be notified in the Gazette 
of India and shall also be communicated in writing to him 

17. Restoration to membership — The Council may, on 
an application in the appropriate Form, received in this 
behalf from a member whose name has been permanently 
oi temporarily removed from the Register restore his name,* 
if he is olhetwise eligible to such membership, on his pay- 
ing before such restoration, the balance of the entrance 
fee, if any, the annual membership fee and the annual 
fee on behalf of the Regional Council for the year during 
which his name is restored, and, if his name has been 
removed under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 20, a 
restoration fee of twentyfive rupees together with the 
arrears on account of the annual membership fee, subject 
to a maximum of three hundred rupees: 

Provided that the restoration of a member’s name which 
was removed under the orders of the High Court shall be 
effected only in accordance with such orders. 

18. Notification of restoration — The restoration of a 
member’s name to the Register shall be notified in the 
Gazette of India and shall also be communicated in writ- 
ing to him, 

CHAPTER III 
Examinations 

19. Conditions to become a member — Except as other- 
wise provided for in the Act or these Regulations, a person 
wishing to qualify himself for membership of the Institute 
shall pass the Preliminary, Intel mediate and Final Exami- 
nations, and complete the practical training, as provided 
in Schedule B. 

20. Conduct of examinations — (1) The examinations 
shall be conducted in such manner and at such times and 
places as the Council my direct: 

Provided that there shall be at least one examination in 
each year. 

(2) The dates and places of the examination and other 
particulars shall be notified in the Gazette of India. 

21. Application for admission to an examination — -An 
application for admission to an examination shall be made 
in the approved form a copy of which may be obtained 
from the Secretary and, together with the fee fixed for the 
examination, shall be sent so as to reach the Council in 
accordance with the directions given by it. 

22- Right to refuse admission to examination— (\) The 
Examination Committee or a person authorised by it in 
this behalf may, for a sufficient reason to be recorded, 
refuse to admit a candidate to an examination or admit 
him to an examination, subject to such conditions as it 
or he may consider to be responsible in the circumstances 
of the case or may for any sufficient reason to be recorded, 
refuse a candidate admission to an examination hall or 
expel him from an examination hall, after he has been 
admitted to it in the usual course. 


(2) Notwithstanding the fact that a candidate has offi 
lained the minimum number oi maiks for passing an 
examination, the Examination Committee may after 
giving an opportunity to the candidate of being heard, for 
reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to detlaie him 
to have passed the examination. 

(3) Any order passed by the Examination Committee or 
the person authorised by it, may be reviewed either by 
the Council or an authority appointed by it for this 
purpose. 

23. Refund of fees — (1) The fee paicl by a candidate who 
has been admitted to an examination, shall not, except as 
otherwise provided in sub-regulation (2), be refunded. 

(2) Where a candidate applies to the Council within 
fifteen days of the last date of the examination, for the 
transfer of the fee for the examination on the ground that 
he was prevented from attending the examination * on 
account of circumstances beyond his control, the Council 
may permit the fee paid by surl^ a candidate to be appro- 
priated towards the fee payable for the next examination 
only. 

24. Candidates to be supplied with admission tickets — 
An admission ticket stating the place, dates and limes -at 
which the candidate may present himself lor an examina- 
tion shall be sent to each candidate to the address given 
by him in his application so as to reach him not less than 
foui teen days before the commencement of the examina- 
tion. 

25. Examination Results ■ — (1) (a) A list of candidates 
declared successful at each examination shall be published. 

(b) The names of candidates obtaining distinction in the 
examination shall be indicated in the list. 

(c) Every candidate shall be individually informed of 
his result. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in schedule B, 
the Council may, in its discretion, vary the minimum 
number of marks required for passing an examination. 

(3) A candidate who passes at one sitting an examina- 
tion with seventy percent of the total marks for all the 
papers for that examination shall be considered to hav“ 
passed the examination with distinction. 

(4) (i) Information as to whether a candidate’s answers 
in any particular paper or papers of any examination have 
been examined and marked shall be suplied to the candi- 
date on his submitting within a month of the declaration 
of the result of the said examination, an application ac- 
companied by a fee of ten rupees for all or any of the 
papers. 

(ii) The fee shall be only for verifying whether the 
candidate’s answers in any particular paper or papers have 
been examined and marked, and not for the re-examina- 
tion of the answers. 

(iii) The marks obtained by a candidate in individual 
questions or in sections of a paper shall not be supplied. 

(iv) If as a result of such verification, it is discovered" 
that there has been either an omission to examine or 
mark any answer or answers or there has been a mistake 
in the totalling of the marks, the fee for verification shall 
be refunded in full to the candidate. 

(5) Every candidate shall be furnished free with a state- 
ment of marks obtained by him in the papers in which he' 
has appeared in the examination: 

Provided that if a request for the statement of marks 
secured by a candidate at any examination is received after 
the expiry of two months, from the date of the declaration 
of the result of the examination, the statement shall be 
furnished on payment of a fee of two rupees for each 
paper, subject to a maximum of five rupees for all the 
papers in the case of the Preliminary or the Intermediate 
Examination or in any one Group of the Final Examina- 
tion and ten rupees for all the papers of the Final Examina 
tion. 

26. Examination certificates — A candidate passing the 
Preliminary, Intermediate and Final Examinations shall be 
granted a certificate to that effect in the appropriate Form. 


Part III— Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


313 


27. Disciplinary action in connection with examina- 
tions — If a candidate is reported to have behaved in a dis- 
orderly manner in or near an examination hall or is 
reported to have resorted to or attempted to have resorted 
to unfair means for the purpose of passing an examination, 
the Council may, on receipt of a report to that effect and 
after such investigation as it may deem necessary, take such 
disciplinary action as it may think fit, provided that an 
opportunity shall he given to the candidate of being heard 
before an order adverse to him is passed. 

Explanation — Disciplinary action may include the 
cancellation of any examination result in relation to the 
candidate. 

28. Examiners — The Council shall, in consultation with 
the Examination Committee, maintain a list of approved 
examiners for the purpose of the examinations under 
these Regulations. 

CHAPTER IV 
Articlep and Audit Ct.frk.s 

29. Engagement of articled clerks — (1) (a) Associates and 
fellows, who are in practice, or who are deemed to be in 
practice within (he meaning of sub-section (2) of section 
2, shall, subject to the provisions of these Regulations, be 
entitled to engage and train articled clerks. 

(b) A fellow in practice may engage two articled clerks: 

Provided that if he has been in continuous practice for 
not less than seven years, (including practice before the 
commencement of the Act) or if he has been in continuous 
practice as a fellow for not elss than two years, he may 
engage three articled clerks: 

Provided further that if he has been in continuous prac- 
tice for not less than fifteen years (including pracfice before 
the commencement of the Act) or has been in continuous 
practice as a fellow for not less than ten years, he may 
engage four articled clerks, 

(c) An associate in continuous practice for not less than 
three years (including practice before the commencement of 
the Act) may engage one articled clerk. 

(d) An associate or a fellow in the service of a chartered 
accountant in practice or a firm of such chartered ac 
countants and who has been in practice and/or in service 
for a continuous period of not less than three years with 
a chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such 
chartered accountants may engage one articled clerk: 

Explanation 1 — For the purpose of this regulation, a 
member in practice means a member who is, in the opinion 
of the Council, mainly engaged in practice which is suit- 
able for training an articled clerk for the profession of 
accountancy. 

Explanation II — A member who ceases to be in practice 
or gives up service under a chartered accountant in prac- 
tice or a linn of such chartered accountants and who at 
the time of such discontinuance of such practice or such 
not engage any articled clerk, if subsequently he sets up 
practice or takes up service under a chartered accountant 
in practice or a firm of such chartered accountants until 
such time as the articled clerk who was serving under hint 
previously, completes the period of his articles. 

(2) The Council may, subject to such terms and con- 
ditions as it may deem lit, relax in any case any of the 
provisions of this regulation. 

30. Member not. to engage in India articled clerks 
under the bye-laws of any other Institute or ! society — No 
member shall engage in India, articled clerks under the 
bye-laws of any other Institute or Society, except in 
accordance with the permission granted by the Council. 

31. Premium from articled clerks — (1) No articled clerk 
shall be required to pay a premium exceeding two 
thousand rupees. 

(2) Subject to satisfactory service and good conduct of 
the articled clerk, any premium charged by the employer 
shall be refunded by him in full to the articled clerk in 
such instalments as the former may deem fit but in any 
case not later than fourteen days after the date of the 
completion or termination of the articles, as the case 
may be. 


(3) Where the premium charged by the employer ex- 
ceeds five hundred rupees, it shall he deposited in the 
separate account with a scheduled bank; but where such 
premium is to be refunded in a lump sum,’ it shall be 
kept as a fixed deposit with a scheduled bank and together 
with the interest accrued thereon shall subject lo satis- 
factory service and good conduct of the articled clerk, be 
lel'unded to him not later than fourteen days after the 
date of completion or termination of articles, as the case 
may be: 

Provided that if the articles are cancelled under regula- 
tion 37, the premium or balance of the premium, if any, 
shall be transferred by the employer to the Council for 
such use as it may deem lit. 

(4) Where an articled clerk docs not complete the 
articles, any dispute between him and the employer in 
relation to the refund of the premium shall be referred to 
the Council and the decision of the Council thereon 
shall be binding on the at titled clerk and the employer. 

32. Admission to article ship — (1) A member entitled to 
engage articled clerks under these Regulations shall, 
before accepting a person as an articled clerk satisfy 
himself that: (a) his professional practice or that of his 
employer, if he is an employee of a chartered accountant 
in practice or a firm of such chartered accountants, is 
suitable for the purpose of training articled clerks and; 
(b) such person: (i) is not less than sixteen years of age 
on the date of commencement of the articles and (ii) 
either has passed the Pteliminary Examination or the 
Intermediate Examination under these Regulations or is 
a graduate or has passed the National Diploma in Com- 
merce Examination held by the All India Council for 
Technical Edilcation, or has passed the Government 
Diploma in Accountancy Examination or an Examina- 
tion recognised as equivalent thereto by the rules for the 
award of the Government Diploma in Accountancy: 

Provided that nothing contained in this regulation 
shall prevent him from engaging as an articled clerk a 
person who had entered into articles or audit service 
previous to the 1st day of July 19.76. 

(2) A member entitled to erain articled clerks shall, 
before executing the articles in the appropriate Form, 
require a person who is to be articled to him to serve him 
for a period of sixty days, hereinafter referred to as Pre- 
liminary Service. 

(3) Registration of such Preliminary Service shall be 
made with the Council within a period of ten days from 
the date of the commencement of such service. 

(4) If on completion of such service, the member is 
satisfied that the person is suitable for the profession, the 
articles shall be executed in the appropriate Form and 
the period of articles shall be taken to have commenced 
from the date of the commencement of the aforesaid Preli- 
minary Eervice. 

(5) Nothing contained in sub-regulations (2) to (4) shall 
prevent the member from accepting a person as an articled 
clerk whose name has previously been entered in the re- 
gister of articled clerks. 

33. Registration of articled clerk as student — (l)(a) An 
articled clerk shall register himself as a student of the 
coaching organisation set up under the aegis of the Insti- 
tute. 

(b) The articled clerk shall submit, by registered post, 
through his employer, an application in (he approved 
form with the requisite fee, within ten days from the date 
of the commencement of the Preliminary Service, for 
registration as a student of the coaching organisation. 

(c) If the aplication for registration is not submitted 
within the time specified, the period of service upto a date 
ten days prior to the date when he submits it for such 
registration, shall not be counted for the purpose of these 
Regulations. 

(2) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to 
a person who has passed the Government Diploma in 
Accountancy Examination or an examination recognised 
as equivalent thereto by the rules for the award of the 
Government Diplomas in Accountancy or who had entered 
into articles or audit service before the 1st day of Inly 
1936. J 7 



314 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 [ Part III— Seo. 4 


34. t\rc niton and registration of articles — (1) (i) The 
articles shall he executed in the appi opt i.ite I'orm. 

(ii) 1 he .nticles shall be executed oil punted foims, 
which shall be "supplied fiee by the becictaty. 

(iii) i’he articles in duplicate, together with the docu- 
mentary evidence showing that the conditions laid down 
in legulation .12 are satisfied shall be sent to die Secretary 
fot registration so as to leach him within ninety days of the 
commencement of the period of the articles or within 
thirty days of the execution of the ai tides, whichevei is 
earlier. 

(2) The articles shall be accompanied by a slatement 
in the appropriate Foim giving particulars about the name, 
the fathei s name, the residence, the date of birth and the 
educational qualifications of the articled cletk. 

(3) The at tides shall be stamped and shall be accom- 
panied bv a fee of thitly i upces. 

(4) The Council may, after giving an opportunity to a 
clerk of being heard, refuse to register his ai tides. 

35. Register of articled clerks — A register ol articled 
clerks shall be maintained by the Council. 

36. Articled clerk not to engage in any other (xcupa 
tion — Without the previous permission of the Council, no 
articled cletk shall, during the peiiod ol his seivtce as an 
articled cletk, take any other couise of studs or training, 
whether academic or professional, or engage in an\ husi 
ness ot occupation. 

37. Cancellation of articles— (1) On proof of misconduct 
or breach of regulation 3h or breach of any of the cove- 
nants contained in the ail teles, the Council may cancel the 
registration of the at tides or extend the period of the 
articles, or direct that any period already served under 
such articles shall not be teckond as service fot the pur- 
pose of the period of practical training specified in 
Schedule II. 

(2) The Clerk, the registration of whose articles has been 
cancelled under this regulation, shall not, except with the 
permission of the Council, be retained or taken as an 
articled clerk by any member, 

38. Complaint againsl the employer — (1) Where an 
articled cleik makes a complaint against his employer to 
the Council, the Council may cause an investigation to be 
made and take such action as it may consider expedient, 

(2) The President may, pending an investigation of the 
complaint, cithet terminate ot suspend the aittcles and 
allow the articled clerk to be accepted as an additional 
articled clerk bv a member, notwithstanding anything con- 
tained in regulation 29. 

39. Fresh Articles — (1) (a) Where the employer has 
ceased to practise; or 

(b) where the employer’s name has been removed from 
the Register; or 

(c) where the employer is dead; or 

(d) where the articles are terminated under sub-tegnla- 
tion (1) of regulation 41; or 

(c) for any other valid reason, an articled clerk is not 
able to complete the term of the articles, he may, with 
the permission of the President, enter into fresh articles 
for the remainder of the term oil service with another 
member entitled to engage and train articled clerks. 

(2) Such fresh aiticles shall be executed in the appro- 
priate Form. 

(3) The provisions of regulation 34 shall apply 'mutatis 
mutandis’ except that no tee shall be payable by the 
articled clerk. 

40. Change of status of employer — (1) Where a salaried 
employee of a charteterl accountant in practice or of a 
firm of such chartered accountants sets up practice in- 
dependently, his articled clerk shall remain with him from 
the date of setting up practice independently: 

Provided that the President may, in an appropriate case, 
direct that the articled clerk shall serve the chartered ac- 
countant in practice or the firm of such chartered ac- 
countants, as xhpr case may be. 


(2) Where a salatied employee of a chartered ac- 
countant in practice or of a hrm of such chartered 
accountants docs not set up practice independently, his 
articled clerk shall, subject to the appioval ol the Presi- 
dent, serve the charteied accountant m practice or the 
hrm of such chartered accountants, as the case may be. 

(3) In the case referred to in the proviso to sub-iegula- 
t on (1) or sub-regulation (2), fresh articles shall he execut- 
ed and the ptovistons of legulation 34 shall apply 'mutatis 
mutandis’, except that no fee shall be payable by the ai tid- 
ed clerk. 

11. Termination or assignment of articles — (1) Articles 
may, by agreement between the articled clerk and his emp- 
loyer, be terminated or assigned to another employer. 

(2) An assignment under sub-regulation (1) shall be in 
the appropriate Form. 

(3) The piovisions of regulation 34 shall apply ’mutatis 
mutandis’ except that no fee shall be payable by the 
articled clerk. 

42. Supplementary articles — (1) An articled clerk who 
has taken leave in excess of the period allowed under regu- 
lation 48 shall be required to serve for a period equivalent 
to the excess leave taken, in continuation ot the articles, 
and for this purpose, execute a supplementary deed of 
articles in the appropriate Form. 

(2) The supplementary deed shall be stamped and shall 
be sent to the office of the Institute so as to reach within 
sixty days of the expiry of the old articles. 

(8) No fee shall be charged for the registration of the 
supplementary articles. 

48. Leave to an articled clerk— (1) An at tided clerk shall 
earn leave at the rate of one sixth of the petiod for which 
he has served. 

(2) An articled clerk, who has served as an audit clerk 
immediately before the commencement of his articles, 
shall, in addition to the leave earned under this regulation, 
be entitled to leave equal to one-half of the accumulated 
leave earned by him as an audit clerk, subject to a maxi- 
mum of two months. 

(3) Leave due shall ordinarily be granted if reasonable 
notice has been given to the employer by the articled 
clerk. 

(4) Leave not earned and due may be granted by the 
employer subject to the condition that the total leave to 
be taken by the articled clerk shall not exceed one-sixth 
of the total period of his articles together with leave due 
under sub-regulation (2). 

(5) For the purpose of preparing for an examination of 
the Institute, the articled clerk shall be granted by the 
employer leave for two months or to the extent due, which 
ever is less, provided an application for the leave has been 
made at least fifteen days in advance. 

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regula- 
tion (5), the employer may grant to the articled clerk leave 
for more than two months, if such leave is due to him. 

44. Working hours for an articled clerk — The wotking 
hours of an articled clerk shall, subject to a maximum of 
thirty five working hours in a week, be regulated by the 
employer. 

45. Report to the Council— An employer shall on 
completion, discontinuance or termination of the seivice 
of an articled clerk forthwith issue to the articled clerk a 
certificate iri the appropriate Form, in respect of the service 
rendered under him and forward a copy thereof to the 
Council. 

46. Certificate of service on the death of employer — 
Where the employer dies, his legal representative or where 
at the time of his death, he was carrying on practice with 
another member, the surviving partner shall issue to the 
articled clerk a ceitihcate in the appropriate Form, in res- 
pect of the service rendered and forward a copy thereof to 
the Council. 

47. Audit clerks — (1) A mernher in continuous practice 
for a period of not less than three years (including prac- 
tice before the commencement of the Act) entitled to 
employ two audit clerks for the purpose of registration 
with the Institute: 



Past III— Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


315 


Provided that it he has been m continuous piactice foi 
not less than fifteen years (including practice before the 
commencement of the Act) oi has been in continuous 
practice as a fellow for not less than ten yeats, he may 
employ one mote audit clerk: 

Provided further that the Council may, subject to such 
teims and conditions as it may deem fit, relax in any case 
any of the provisions of this regulation. 

Fxplanation — lot the purpose of this regulation, a 
member m practice means a member who is, in the opinion 
of the Council, mainly engaged in practice which is suit 
able for training an audit clerk foi the profession of ac 
countancy 

(2) A member in practice before employing a person for 
service as an audit clerk shall satisfy himselt that such 
person — 

(a) is not less than sixteen years of age on the date 
of the commencement of service as an audit clerk, 
and 

(b) either has passed the Preliminary Examination, oi 
the Intel mediate Examination under these Regu 
lations or is a graduate or has passed the National 
Diploma in Commerce Examination held by the 
All India Council for Technical Education, or 
has passed the Government Diploma in Account 
ancy Examination or an examination recognised 
as equivalent thereto bv the mles tor the awaid 
of the Government Diploma in Accountancy: 

Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall 
prevent htm from employing as an audit clerk a pci son 
who had entered into articles or audit service previous to 
the 1st day of July 1956 


48 Register of audit clerks — A registei of audit clerks 
shall be maintained by the Council 

49. Registration oj service— (1) The employer shall send 
to the Council for registration, particulars about the name 
and address of the employer, the name, the father’s name, 
the residence, the date of birth and the educational quail 
ficatiotis ol the audit cleik sei\mg under him, in the 
appropnale form, with the date of commencement of such 
service, so as to icach the hecieLaiy within llnrLy days from 
the date of the commencement of the audit seivice oi the 
date of the expiry of the Pieliminary Service, whichever is 
later 

(2) 1 he Council may, after giving an opportunity to a 
clerk of being heaid, teluse to register his service 

(3) For the purpose of practical training specified in 
Schdule 'B‘, service rendered as an audit clerk shall be 
counted ■ 

(a) where the audit clerk has been registered within 
the time prescribed b\ sub legulation (1), from 
the date of the commencement of service. 

(b) m any other case, from a date one hundred and 
fifty day s pi lor to the dale of receipt m the office 
of the Institute of application for registration of 
the audit cleik undci sub regulation (1). 

50 Audit clerk nol to engage in any other occupation — 
Without the previous permission of the Council, no audit 
clerk shall, during the perid of his service, take any other 
course of study oi training, whethci academic or piofes 
sional, or engage in any business or occupation 

51 Report to the Council — An employei shall, on com- 
pletion, discontinuance, ot tcnnmation ol the service of 
an audit clerk issue to the audit cletk a certificate in the 


(3) (i) A member entitled to employ audit clerks shall, 
before sending the particulars foi legistiation as pi esc rib 
ed in regulation 49, requiie a person who is to be employed 
as an audit clerk, to serve him for a period of one hundred 
and twenty days, hereinafter referted to as Preliminary 
Service. 

(li) Registration of such Preliminary Service shall be 
made with the Conned within a period of ten days from 
the date of the commencement of such service 


appropriate Form in respect of the seivice rendered under 
him and foi ward a copy theieof to the Council 

52 Certificate of service on tin death of employer — 
Where the employei dies, his legal repiesentative, or 
where, at the time of his death, he was carrying on piac 
tice with another member, the surviving partner shall 
issue to the articled cleik a ceitilicatc in the appiopnate 
Fonn, in respect of the service rendered and forwaid a 
copy thereof to the Council 


(lii) If on completion of such service, the member is 
satisfied that the person is suitable for the profession, the 
date of the commencement of audit service shall be taken 
to be from the date of the commencement of the Prelimi- 
nary Service. 

(4) Nothing contained in sub regulations (2) and (3) 
shall prevent a member from employing as an audit clerk, 
a person whose name is already enteied in the iegister of 
audit clerks or articled clerks 

(5) (i) An audit clerk shall iegister himself as a student 
of the coaching organisation set up under the aegis of the 
Institute 

(li) The audit clerk shall submit by registered post 
through his employer, an application in the approved 
form with the requisite fee within ten days from the date 
of the commencement of audit service or date of the expiry 
of the Preliminaiy Seivice, whichever is later, for registia 
tion as a student of the coaching organisation. 

(lii) If the application for registration as a student of 
the said coaching organisation is not submitted within the 
time specified, the period of seivice upto a date ten days 
prior to the date when he submits it for such registration, 
shall not be counted for the purpose of these regulations 

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub regula- 
tion (5), the Examination Committee may relax its pio- 
visions m the rase ot a person who, having entered into 
audit service before the 1st day of January 1957, has 
rcgisteied himself as a student of the said coaching organi- 
sation. 

(7) Nothing contained in sub regulation (5) shall apply 
to a clerk who has passed the Government Diploma in 
Accountancy Examination or an examination recognised 
as equivalent thereto by the rules for the award of the 
Government Diploma in Accountancy, or who had entered 
into articles or audit services before the 1st day of July 
1956. 


53 Registialion fee — The audit clerk shall, belote his 
name is entered in the register of audit clerks, leimt to the 
Council a registration fee of twenty rupees. 

Provided that no fresh registialion fee shall he payable — 

(a) Wheie on the termination of audit service, the 
audiL cletk joins another employer in the same 
town on the same or the following day, or joins 
an employer in a dideicnt town within seven 
days fiom the date of such termination and the 
new employer sends to ihc Council the paiticulars 
as required by sub-regulation (1) of regulation 49 
within thirty days from the date of such ternnna 
tion; or 

(b) wheie on the termination of the audit service 
consequent on the death or the removal from the 
Registei of the name of his employer for any 
reason whatsoever or consequent on his employer 
being suspended ftoin practice, the audit clerk 
joins another employei and gets his audit service 
with his new emplovei registeied with the Coun 
cil within thuty days from the date of teimi 
nation of service with hu pievious employei, 

Provided furthei Lhe President mnv lennt the registra- 
tion fee in a case where he ts satisfied that there were 
reasonable grounds for the termination report not being 
sent within the prescribed time oi not being sent at all 

54 Leave to audit clerk— { 1) An audit clerk shall earn 
leave at the rate of one-sixth of the period foi which he has 
served 

(2) An audit clerk who has served as an articled clerk 
immediatelv before the commencement of his audit service 
shall, in addition to the leave earned under this regulation, 
be entitled to leave earned by him as an ai tided clerk, sub- 
ject to a maximum of two months 

(3) Leave due shall ordinarily be granted if reasonable 
notice has been given to the employer by the audit clerk 



316 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, .TUNE 22, 1963 


[ Past III — Sec. 4 


(4) Leave not earned and due may be granted by the 
employer subject to the condition that the total leave to 
be taken by the audit clerk shall not exceed one-sixth of 
the total period of his service together with leave due 
under sub-regulation (2). 

55. Cancellation of audit service — ( 1) On proof of mis- 
conduct or breath of regulation 50, the Council may, can- 
cel the registration of the audit service, or extend the 
period of the audit service or direct that any period of 
past audit service shall not be reckoned as such service 
for the purposes of practical training specified in Schedule 
'll'. 

(2) The clerk whose audit service has been cancelled 
under this regulation, shall not, except with the permission 
of the Council, be retained or taken as an audit clerk by 
a member. 

56. Complaint against, the employer — (1) Where an 
audit clerk makes a complaint against his employer to the 
Council, the Council may cause an investigation to be 
made and take such action as it may consider expedient. 

(2) The President may, pending an investigation of the 
complaint, either terminate or suspend the audit service. 

CHAPTER V 
Students' Association 

57. Constitution of students’ associations — (1) The 
Council may constitute a students’ association for each of 
the regional constituencies as may from time to time be 
specified by the Central Government under clause (a) of 
sub-section (2) of section 9. 

(2) A students’ association shall be constituted in such 
manner and shall exercise such functions as may be speci- 
fied by the Council by notification in the Gazette of 
India. 

(3) A students’ association shall function subject to the 
control, supervision and direction of the Council exercised 
through the respective Regional Council and shall be 
managed by a managing comm’ttee of fifteen members of 
which three members shall be nominated by the Regional 
Council. 

(4) The Chairman shall be elected by the managing 
committee. 

(5) The Council may establish a branch of a students' 
association and may issue such directions as it may consider 
expedient, in regard to the duties and functions of the 
branch. 

(6) Any person who enters into articles or audit service 
on or after 1st day of April 1957 shall become a member 
of the students’ association of his region and shall remit, 
for the benefit of his association, a sum of live rupees along 
with his application for registration of his articles or audit 
service, as the case may be. 

(7) The Council may, from time to time, make financial 
grants to the students’ associations. 

CHAPT ER VI 
Elections 

58. Dates of election — 'The following dates relating to 
the election of members to the Council, namely the last 
date for the receipt of nominations, the last date for the 
withdrawal of nominations, the date or dates of polling, 
the date for receipt of voting papers by post, the date or 
dates for the counting of votes and the date for the decla- 
ration of the result, shall be decided by the Council and 
notified by it in the Gazette of India alleast three months 
before such dates. 

59. Members eligible to vole — (1) A member shall be en- 
titled to vote in an election to the Council from the 
regional constituency within whose territorial jurisdiction 
his professional address falls on a date immediately six 
months prioi to the date on which the list of members 
eligible to vote in the election is published provided his 
name has been borne on the Register continuously for a 
period of not less than six months immediately prior to 
the date of the publication of the list and he is not in 
arrears in respect of the annual membership fee and the 
Regional Council fee on the 30th June of the year in 
which the election is to be conducted. 


(2) A member whose name stands removed from the 
Register on the date on which he is to cast his vote shall 
not be considered eligible to vote at the election notwith- 
standing the fact that his name has been published in the 
list of voters. 

60. Qiialifications of members to stand for election — A 
fellow whose name is included in the list of voters publish- 
ed under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 62 and who is 
eligible to vote at the election shall be eligible to stand 
for election to the Council from the regional constituency 
in which his name is included. 

61. Number of members to be elected ■ — The number of 
members to be elected from each regional constituency 
shall be one member for every two hundred and fifty 
members in the constituency, fractions exceeding half 
being counted as one and fractions equivalent to or less 
than half being omitted. 

Provided that each constituency shall have at least one 
member elected therefrom to the Council. 

62. List of voters — (1) At least three months before the 
date or dates of polling fixed for an election, the Council 
shall publish a list of members eligible to vote constitu- 
eneywise showing inter-alia distinctly and separately — 

(i) whether the voter is an associate or a fellow; 

(ii) the polling booth to which the voter is attached 
and in which he may exercise his franchise; and 

(iii) the location of the polling booth. 

Explanation — The address of a member published in 
the list of voters shall be final for determining the manner 
in which be shall be entitled to cast his vote or the consti- 
tuency or the polling booth to which he shall belong for 
the purposes of casting his vote: 

Provided that in a city where there is more than one 
polling booth, the Secretary may in his discretion, permit 
a member attached to a booth to vote at another booth, 
on an application made in this behalf stating the reasons 
why he wants to vote at the other booth on or before the 
15th day of June of the year in which the election is to be 
held. 

(2) T he list of members shall be put on the notice 
board of the Council and the notice boards of the Regional 
Councils. 

(3) The list shall be available on payment of such price 
as may be fixed by the Council. 

(4) The Council shall notify in the Gazette of India and 
the Institute’s journal the fact that such list is available 
on payment. 

(5) At least 3 months before the date or dates of polling 
fixed for an election, the Council shall publish in the 
Gazette of India a notice stating the number of members 
to be elected and calling for nominations of candidates 
for election by a specified date which shall not be less than 
14 days from the date of the publication of the notice. 

63. Nominations — The nomination of a candidate shall 
be in the appropriate Form duly signed by the candidate 
and by the proposer and the seconder both of whom shall 
be persons entitled to vote in the election and shall be 
forwarded by registered post to the Secretary by name so 
as to reach him on or before the specified date. 

64. Fee for election — (1) A candidate for election shall 
pay in all a fee of two hundred rupees irrespective of the 
number of nominations. 

(2) A candidate whose nomination is held to be invalid 
shall be entitled, on an application made by him in this 
behalf, to the refund in full of the fee. 

65. Withdrawal of candidature — (Ij A candidate may 
withdraw his candidature by notice in waiting subscribed 
by him and delivered to the Secretary before 3.00 P.M. on 
the seventh day following the last date fixed for the receipt 
of nominations. 

(2) A candidate who has withdrawn his candidature 
shall be incompetent to cancel bis withdrawn], 

(3) The withdrawal of candidature shall be intimated 
by the Secretary to the other candidates standing for elec- 
tion from the same constituency. 



Part III— Seo. 4 ] 


317 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


(4) A candidate who has wilhdrawn his candidature in 
accordance with sub-regulation (1) shall be entitled, on an 
application made by him in this behalf, to the refund in 
full of the fee paid by him under sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 64. 

66. Scrutiny of nominations — (1) The Secretary shall 
scrutinize the nomination papers of all the candidates, 
except those w-hose candidature has been withdrawn under 
sub-section (1) of regulation 65 and shall endorse on each 
nomination paper his decision whether he accepts or re- 
jects the nomination. 

(2) The Secretary shall record a brief statement of his 
reasorrs if he rejects a nomination. 

(3) The Secretary shall refuse or reject a nomination if 
he is satisfied: — 

(i) that the candidate was ineligible to stand for 
election; or 

(ii) that the proposer or the seconder was not quali- 
fied to subscribe to the nomination of the candi- 
date in the appropriate Form; or 

(iii) that the signature of the candidate or of the pro- 
poser or the seconder is not genuine or has been 
obtained by force or fraud; or 

(iv) that the candidate or the proposer or the seconder 
is in arrears in respect of the annual membership 
fee and the Regional Council fee on the 1st day 
of May of the year in which the election is to be 
held; or 

(v) that there has been a failure to comply with the 
provisions of regulations G3 and 64. 

Explanation — The rejection of the nomination of a 
candidate by reason of any irrcgnlatity in respect of that 
nomination is no bar to the acceptance of another nomi- 
nation which is valid in respect of the same candidate. 

67. Appeal against rejection c>t a nomination — (1) A 
candidate whose nomination has been lefuscd oi rejected 
by the Secretary shall have a right of appeal against the 
decision of the Secretary. 

(2) Art appeal shall be presented to the Council within 
ten days of the date bn which such refusal or rejection is 
communicated to him and the same shall be heard by a 
Committee appointed by the Council in this behalf. 

(3) The Committee shall consist of any three persons: 

Provided that a candidate for the election shall not be 

a member of the Committee. 

(4) The Committee shall have the power to inspect 
documents, examine witnesses, record evidence, receive 
affidavits, grant adjournments, and shall have such other 
powers as may be necessary for the efficient and due pro- 
formance of its dirties. 

(5) The decision of the Committee shall Ire final. 

68. Preparation of lists of valid nominations — (1) On 
completion of the scrutiny of the nominations, the Secre- 
tary shall forthwith prepare a list of valid nominations for 
each constituency and cause a copy of the list to be sent 
by registered post to each candidate from that constituency 
whose nomination has been accepted as valid. 

(2) The list shall contain full names in alphabetical 
order and the address of the validity nominated candi 
dates for each constituency. 

69. Death or cessation of membership of a candidate — - 

The death or cessation of membership of a candidate who 
has been validly nominated, after the date hxed for the 
withdrawal of candidature, shall not stay the election pro- 
ceedings. ‘ 

70. Candidates deemed to be elected ij their number is 
equal to or less than the rnunhn of members to be elected 
— (1) Where the number of candidates validly nominated 
from any constituency is equal to or less than the number 
of members to be elected from that constituency or where 
the number of candidates from any constituency becomes 
equal to or less than the number of members to Ire elect- 
ed from that constituency by reason of the death or 
cessation of membersship of one or more candidates befoie 
the date fixed for polling, such candidates shall be deemed 


to be elected and the Secretary shall declare all such cand 
dales duly elected. 

(2) Wheie the number of such candidates from the cor 
stituency is less than the number of members to be electe 
from that constituency, the Secretary shall commence fres 
proceedings for the election of the remaining members t 
be elected from that constituency. 

71. Admissible number of voles to a voter — (1) A vole 
shall have one vote only. 

(2) The voter in order to cast his vote: 

(a) shall place on his ballot paper the itgure l in th 
square opposite the name of the candidate fo 
whom he desires to vote; and 

(b) may, in addition, place on his ballot paper th- 
figure 2, or the figures 2 and 3, or 2, 3, and 4 ani 
so on, in the squares opposite the names of othe 
candidates in the order of his preference. 

72. Mode of election — The election shall be by poll anc 
a voter shall cast his vote personally in the booth provider 
for the purpose except where he is allowed to cast his vot- 
by post, as hereinafter provided, 

73. Polling booths — The Secretary shall set up sucl 
number of polling booths and at such plares as he derm- 
necessary : 

Provided that, in an area coveted by a radius of ten 
miles from each booth, there shall not be less than 
10 voters according to their professional addresses 
as given in the list of members eligible to vote. 

74. Polling officer — (1) The Secretary shall appoint a 
polling officer for each polling booth and may also appoint 
such other persons as he may deem necessary to assist the 
polling booth. 

(2) The polling officer shall, in addition to performing 
the duties imposed upon him by these Regulations, be in 
general charge of all arrangements at the polling booth and 
may issue orders as to the manner in which persons shall 
be admitted to the polling booth and generally for the pre- 
servation of peace and order at or in the vicinity of the 
pooling booth. 

75. Secret chamber — (1) There shall be a secret chamber 
or chambers in each polling booth. 

(2) The chamber shall be so arranged that no person 
may be able to see how a voter has recorded his vote. 

76. Ballot paper — The ballot paper shall contain a list 
of the candidates validly nominated for a constituency and 
shall bear the seal of the Council. 

77. Presence of the candidates and their authorised re- 
presenlalives at the polling booths— (1) A candidate for 
election from a constituency shall be entitled to be present 
at the polling booths in that constituency* 

(2) He may appoint members as his authorised repre- 
sentatives who shall be entitled to be present on his behalf 
at the polling booths in that constituency: 

Provided that no more than one authorised representa- 
tive shall be present at a time a( each polling booth. 

(3) No appointment *of an authorised representative 
shall be valid unless the candidate has sent to the Secre- 
tary the particulars of the authorised representative by 
registered post so as to reach him at least thirty days before 
the date fixed for the poll. 

(4) For the purposes oi sub-regulation (3), the particu- 
lars shall include the full name, the membership number 
and the address of the authorised repiesentalive and the 
number of the polling booth at which he is authorised to 
be present. 

78. tooting to be in person and not by proxy -Voting 
shall be by ballot and a voter desiring to record his vote, 
shall do so in pet son and not bv proxy. 

79 appointment of assistants— The polling officer may 
employ at the polling booth such persons as he thinks lit 
to assist him in identifying the voters or tor any other 
purpose. 


318 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[Part III— Sbo. 4 


80. Identification of voters — (1) At any time before a 
ballot paper is delivered to a voter, the polling officer rnay, 
of his own accord, if he has reason to doubt the identity 
of the voter or his right to vote at the polling booth, and 
shall, if so required by a candidate or his authorised re- 
presentative, put to the voter such questions as he may 
deem necessary with a view to establish the identity of that 
voter. 

(2) Every voter shall be required to sign the marked copy 
of the list of members eligible to vote and his signature 
shall be verified by the polling officer with the specimen 
signature provided by the Secretary, 

(3) If the polling officer is not satisfied as to the identity 
of the person clatming to be a voter, he may refuse to 
allow such persons to vote in the election, 

81. Record to be kept by the polling officer — The polling 
officer shall, at the time of delivery of the ballot paper, 
place against the name of the voter in the list of members 
eligible to vote, a mark to denote that that voter has te- 

_ceivcd a -ballot paper. 

Explanation— In deciding the tight of a person to obtain 
a ballot paper, the polling officer shall overlook any clerical 
or printing error, provided (hat he is satisfied that such 
person is identical with the voter whose name appears in 
the list of voters. 

82. Mannci of recording of votes after receipt of ballot 
paper — On receiving the ballot paper, the voter shall forth- 
with proceed into the secret chamber set apart foi the 
purpose and shall record his vote on the ballot paper in 
the manner specified in regulation 71. He shall thereafter 
fold the ballot paper; leave the secret chamber and insert 
the ballot paper in the ballot box provided for the purpose, 
in the presence of the polling officer. 

83. Ballot box— The ballot box shall be so constructed 
that a ballot paper can be inserted thereinto during the 

E oll but cannot be withdrawn therefrom, without the box 
ring unlocked or the seals being broken. 

84. Return of ballot paper by a voter — (1) Where a 
voter, after obtaining a ballot paper, chooses not to Vote, 
he shall return the ballot paper to the polling officer, and 
the ballot paper so returned, shall then be marked as “can- 
celled — letumcd'’ and kept in a separate envelope set apart 
for the ‘purpose and a record shall be kept by the polling 
officer of all such ballot papers. 

(2) Where any ballot paper, which was delivered to a 
voter, is found, with or without any writing thereon, in the 
secret chamber, at the end of the day, when the polling 
officer inspects it, it shall be dealt with in accordance with 
the provisions of sub-regulation (1), as if it had been te- 
turned to the polling officer. 

85. Procedure at the polling booth — (1) A polling booth 
shall be kept open on the day or days appointed for record- 
ing of votes from 8-30 a.m. to 6-30 p.m, 

(2) If the polling at any polling booth cannot lake place 
on the day or days appointed tor recoiding of votes or is 
interrupted or obstructed by any sufficient cause or the 
ballot box used at the booth is tampered with or is acci- 
dently or deliberately destroyed, lost or damaged, the Secre- 
tary or the polling officer, as the case may be, may adjourn 
the polling to a subsequent date or the Secretary may de- 
clare the polling at the booth void and order a lresh 
polling. 

(3) If a polling is adjourned or declared void under sub- 
regulation (2), the Secretary shall, as soon as possible, ap- 
point the place where the polling shall be subsequently con- 
ducted and the time, date or dates, as the case may be, for 
the said polling. 

(4) The place, date or dates and the time of polling, 
appointed under sub-regulation (3), shall be notified in- 
dividually to all the voters affected as well as in the Gazette 
of India, 

(5) The Secretary shall not pioceed to count the votes 
cast at the election until the polling at all the polling 
booths in that constituency has been completed, 

(6) The polling officer shall close the polling booth at c 
the end of the day, or if the polling is for more than one*: 
day, at the end pf each day, at the hour appointed under 


sub-regulation (1), and no voter shall be admitted tbeieto 
after that hour : 

Provided (hat any voter present in the polling booth 
before it is closed, shall be entitled to have his vote re- 
corded : 

Provided futtbei that where the numbet of voters en- 
titled to vote at,any polling booth exceeds 200, the polling 
booth shall be kepi open for two consecutive days, during 
the same timings, as mentioned in sub-regulation (1). 

(7) The polling officci shall, as soon as practicable after 
the close of the poll oi after its close on each day, if the 
polling is for more than one day, in the piescnce of any 
candidates or their authorised repicscutatives who may be 
piescnt, seal the ballot box with his own seal and the seals 
of such candidates or authoiised representatives as may 
desire to affix theii seals thereon,, 

(8) The polling officci shall also make up into separate 
packets : 

(i) the unused ballot papers; 

(ii) the returned ballot papeis; 

(iii) the marked copy of the list of members eligible 
to vote; and 

(iv) any other panel directed by the Secretary to be 
kept in a sealed cover, and seal each such packet 
with his own seal and the seals of such candidates 
or authorised representatives as may desire to affix 
their seals thereon, lie shall arrange for the safe 
custody of the ballot box and such packets. 

(9) Where the polling is arranged to take place for moie 
than one day, just before the polling booth is opened to 
the voteis on the following day, the polling officer shall, 
in the piCsence ol ally candidates or theii authorised re- 
presentatives who ma.y he present, temove the seal or seals 
affixed in accoidance with sub-regulation (7) and (8), after 
the seals me examined bv him and by the candidates or 
authorised representatives, lor use during the course of 
that day. 

(10) The ballot box and packets, referred to earlier shall 
be accompanied by an account of ballot papers showing the 
total number of ballot papers received, issued and un- 
issued, leLurned, as also the numbet of ballot papers which 
should be found in the ballot box" and packets. This ac 
count shall be forwarded to the Secretary, 

86. Transport of ballot boxes etc. and their custody — 

(]) The Secretary and the polling officers shall make ade- 
quate anangements foi the safe custody of the ballot boxes 
and other papers and for the safe transport to the Ilead- 
quat lets of the Institute of all the packets or boxes and 
other papeis referred to in regulation 85. 

(2) The Secielaiv shall be responsible for the safe 
custody of the articles referred to in sub-regulation (1), 
until the commencement of the counting of votes, 

87. Voting by members employed on duty at polling 
boo/ hi— 1 he polling officer, the persons appointed by the 
Secretary to assist the polling officer, or the authorised re- 
pi Csentatives, referred to in regulation 77, who are voters 
for any coiistituenrv and who, by leason of their being oil 
duty at a polling booth, are unable to be present and to 
vote at the polling booth wheie they are entitled to vote, 
may send, so as to reach the Secretary at least thirty days 
before the date fixed for the poll at that constituency, an 
application for permission to vote at the polling booth 
where they may be on duty. If Lhc Secretary is satisfied that 
the application is well founded, be may, notwithstanding 
anything contained hereinbcfoie, permit the voter to vote 
at the polling booth where he may he on duty to art as 
the polling officer or to assist the polling officej or as autho- 
nsed representative of a candidate; 

Provided that such permission shall not be granted to 
more than one representative of a candidate in lespect of 
each polling booth, if he is specifically nominated for the 
pui pose bv the candidate himself. 

88. Eligibility to vote by post — (1) A member vhose name 
is included in the list of voters and whose name is not 
attached to any polling booth, and a member who is ic- 
siding outside India, shall, notwithstanding anything coil’ 
tamyd in this Chapter, be permitted to vote by post. 



Part ill— S eo. 4 ] GaZeWE OE INDIA, JtME 22, i§63 3l9 


(2) A member who is entitled lo vote at a polling booth 
may be permitted, at the disci etion of the Secretaiy, to vote 
by post (a) d by teason oi there being a permanent change 
in his address irom the address published m the list of 
voteis to another village, town 01 city beyond a ladms of 
ten miles from the polling booth, he is unable to exercise 
his vote at the polling booth allotted to him or (b) it he is 
actually residing beyond a radius of ten miles from the 
polling booth allotted to him 

(3) An application, duly vended, for peinussion to vole 
by post shall be sent Lo the Secretary so as to leach him by 
the 30th day of June of the year in which the election is 
to be held and an application received in this behalf after 
the said date shall not be cansidcied 

(4) Any misuse of this concession, oi any misstatement oi 
false verification in this behalf shall rcndci the member 
liable for disciplinary action under regulation 101, 

( r >) A member who has been pei nutted to vote by post 
shall recotd his vote bctoic a Magistrate, a Gazetted Officer, 
a Justice of the peace or a Notary Public, in a loom wl ere 
no one else shall he permitted to be present 

80 Secretary to tend ballot papers by pod — At least 2] 
days befoie the datg appointed for the counting of votes, 
the Secietary shall send by registered post to the voters pei 
nutted to vote by post, the ballot paper, together with a 
letter explaining the manner in which the vote shall be te 
corded theteon, and speeds mg the date and hour by which 
it shall reach the Secretary 

90 Ballot papers lo bt returned after recording poles 
thereon — A voter on teceiving his ballot paper sent under 
legulaLion 89, shall, if he desites to vote, record his vote 
thereon in the manner spec died in regulation 71, and send 
it to the Secretary so as to leach him before the tune speci 
fied in this behalf. 

91 Issue of undelivered and fresh ballot papers — Where 
a ballot paper and other connected papeis sent by post 
under regulation 89 ate lost ot damaged in transit or lor 
any reason returned undelivered, the Secretary may reissue 
them by registered post or deliver them or cause them to 
be delivered to the votet on his applying foi the same, 
if he is satisfied with the icasons lor such loss, damage or 
return 

92 Grounds for declaring ballot papers invalid— A 
hallot paper shall be invalid — 

(a) if a voter signs his name oi writes any word or 
figure upon it or makes any mark upon h by 
which the ballot paper becomes recognisable or by 
which the voter can be identified; or 

(b) if it does not bear the seal of the Council; or 

(c) if the figure 1 is not maiked on it, or 

(d) if the figure 1 is set opposite the name of more 
than one candidate, or 

(c) if the figure 1 and some other figure arc put op 
posite the name of the same candidate, or 

(f) if it is unmarked or void for uncertainty, or 

(g) if any papci, other than the forwarding letter, is 
sent with it. 

93 Definitions — In the following regulations, unless 
there is anything repugnant in the subject oi context— 

(i) ‘‘continuing candidate” means anv candidate not 
elected and not excluded from the poll at any 
given time; 

(n) "first prefetence” means the figuic 1, ‘‘second 
preference” means the ijguie 2, and "third prefer- 
ence” means the figure 3 set opposite the name of 
any candidate, and so on, 

(iii) ‘‘unexhausted paper” means a ballot paper on 
w T hich a further preference is recorded for a con- 
tinuing candidate; 

(iv) “exhausted paper” means a hallot paper on 
which no fiuther prefcience is recorded foi a 
continuing candidate: 

Provided that a paper shall also be deemed to be ex 
hausted in any case m which — 

(a) the names of two or moie candidates, whether 
continuing or not, are maiked with the same figure 
and are next in order of preference; oi 


(b) the name of the candidate next in order of pre 
ference, whether continuing or not, is maiked by 
a figuie not following consecutively after sonn 
other hguies on the ballot paper or by two or more 
figures; 

(v) "original vole” in regard to any candidate mean 
a vote derived from a ballot paper on which a first 
preference is recorded for such candidate; 

(vi) "transferred vote' in regard to any candidate 
means a vote, the value oi part of the value oi 
which is credited to such candidate and which i L 
derived from a ballot paper on which a second oi 
subsequent preference is recorded tor such candi 
date; 

(vnj “surplus” means the number by which the valm 
of the votes of any candidate, original or nans 
ferred, exceeds the quota 

94 Appointment of time and date for the counting o t 
votes — The Secretary shall appoint a date or dates ant 
time fot each such date, for the counting of votes at th 
Headquailers of the Institute and shall also give notice oi 
such dale or dales and time in writing to all the candi- 
dates 

9 r > Counting of votes — (1) On the date and at the time 
and place, appointed under regulation 94, the Secretary 
shall, for the purpose of counting ot votes in respect of r 
constituency — 

(a) open the covers containing the postal balloi 
papers received by him under regulation 90, and 
shall take out the hallot papers from each cover 
and shall lecoicl the number thereof in a state 
ment, and shall make a separate packet of those 
ballot papers; 

(b) allow the candidates and their authorised repre 
sentatives, present at the counting, an oppoitu- 
nity to inspect the ballot boxes and packets te- 
ceived from the polling officers and then seals for 
satisfying themselves that they aie in order, and 

(c) proceed as follows : — 

(i) If he is satishcd that the ballot boxes am 
packets w'hich have been icceived are in order 
he shall take up the counting of the balloi 
papers contained in the ballot box. 

(u) If he finds that any of the ballot boxes has beei 
tampered with, he shall not count the hallo 
papers contained in such box tor the purpose' 
of election. (He shall, however, keep a recorc 
of such ballot papers for the purpose of electior 
petitions, if any). 

(in) The ballot boxes found to be in order shall b 
opened and the ballot papers shall be taken ou 
from them and shall be counted and the numbe 
theteof lecorded in a statement. To these shal 
be added the postal ballot papers. 

(iv) The ballot popeis shall be examined and an* 
invalid ballot papers shall be rejected. 

(v) He shall divide the remaining ballot papers intt 
parcels according to the first preferences lecord 
ed for each candidate. 

(vi) He shall then count the number of papers h 
each parcel. 

(2) In complying with the sub-regulations hereinafter cr 
acted, the Secretaiy shall — 

(a) disregard all fractions, 

(b) ignore all preferences recorded for candidate 
already elected or excluded from the poll. 

(3) For the purpose of facilitating the processes specific 
m the sub-iegulations hereinafter enacted, each valid pape 
shall be deemed to be of the value of one hundred 

(4) The Secretary shall add together the values of th 
papers in all the parcels and divide the total by a numbe 
exceeding by one the number of vacancies to be filled am 
the quotient inci cased by one shall be the number sufficien 
td secure the return of a candidate (hereinafter called th 
quota). 



320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


" " ~f — * 

(5) It at any time, a number of candidates equal to the 
umber of persons to be elected has obtained the quota, 
rch candidates. shall be treated as elected, and no further 
eps shall be taken. 

(6) (i) Any candidate, the value of whose parcel, on the 
rst preferences being counted, is equal to or greater ihan 
te quota, shall be declared elected, 

(ii) If the value of the papers in any such parcel is equal 
j the quota, the papeis shall be set aside as finally dealt 
nth. 


[Part III— Sec. 4 


(v) The process directed by this sub-regulation shall be 
repeated on the successive exclusions, one after another, of 
the candidates lowest on the poll until the last vacancy is 
hllcd eiltier by the election of a candidate with the quota 
or as hereinafter provided. 

(9) if as the result of a transfer under this regulation, 
the value of the votes obtained by a candidate is tqual 
to or greater than the quota, the transfer then proceeding 
shall be completed, but no further papeis shall be trans- 
ience! to him. 


(iii) If the value of the papers in any such parcel is 
reater than the quota, the surplus shall be transferred to 
re continuing candidates indicated on the voting papers 
s next in the order of the voters' preference, in the 
lanner specified in the following sub-regulation. 

(7) (i) If and when, as the result of any operation speci- 
ed in these sub-regulations, a canclidate has a surplus, that 
lrplus shall be transferred in accordance with Lhe piovi- 
ons pi this sub-regulation. 

(ii) If more than one candidate has a surplus, the largest 
rrplus shall be dealt with first and the others in order of 
■agnitude: 

Provided that every surplus arising on the fust counting 
r votes, shall be dealt with before those arising on the 
cond count and so on. 

(iii) Where two or more surpluses are equal, the Secre- 
cy shall decide, as hereinafter provided, which shall fust 
: dealt with. 

(iv) (a) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred 
ises from original votes only, the Secietary shall examine 
1 the papers in the parcel belonging to the candidate 
hose surplus is to be transferted, and divide the un- 
-hausted papers into sub-parcels according to the next pre- 
rences recorded thyeon. He shall also make a separate 
■b-parcel of the exhausted papeis. 

(b) He shall ascertain the value of the papers in each 
b-parccl and of all the unexhausted papers. 

(c) It the value of the unexhausted papers is equal to or 
ss than the sutplus, he shall transfer all the unexhausted 
epers at the value at which they were received by the 
ndidate whose surplus is being transferred. 

(d) If the value of the unexhausted papers is greater 
an the surplus, he shall transfer the sub-parcel of un- 
chausted papers, and the value at which each paper shall 
: transferred shall be ascertained by dividing the surplus 
/ the total number of unexhausted papers. 

(v) If the surplus of any candidate to be transferred arises 
om transferred as well as original votes, the Secretary shall 
-examine all the papeis in the sub-parcel last transferred 
> the candidate, ancl divide the unexhausted papers into 
ib-parcels according to the next preferences recorded 
iereon. He shall thereupon deal with the sub-parcels in 
e same manner as is provided in the case of the sub- 
ircels referred to in clause (iv). 

(vi) The papers transferred to each candidate shall be 
ided in the form of a sub-parcel to the papers already be- 
nging to such candidate. 

(vii) All papers in the parcel or sub-parcel of an elected 
ndidate not transferred under this sub-regulation shall be 
t aside as finally dealt with. 

(8) (i) If after all surpluses have been transferred, as 
.reinbefore directed, less than the number of candidates 
quired, has been elected, the Secretary shall exclude from 
e poll the candidate lowest on the poll and shall disun- 
ite his unexhausted papers among trie continuing candi- 
ttes according to the next preferences recorded thereon, 
ny exhausted papers shall be set aside as finally dealt 
i th, 

(ii) The papers containing original votes of an excluded 
ndrdate shall first be transferred, the transfer value of 
ch paper being one hundred. 

(iii) The papers containing transferred votes of an ex- 
uded candidate shall then lie transferred in the order of 
ie transfers in which and at the value of which be ob- 
ined them. 

(iv) Each of such transfers shall be deemed to be a 
parate transfer. 


(10) (i) If aftet the completion of any transfer under 
tins regulation, the value of the votes of any candidate 
shall be equal to ot greater than the quota, he shall be de- 
clared elected. 

(11) If the value of the votes of any such candidate shall 
be equal to the quota, the whole of the papers on which 
such votes ate recorded shall be set aside as finally dealt 
with. 

(iii) If the value of the votes of any such candidate shall 
be greater than the quota, his surplus shall thereupon be 
distributed in the manner heteinbefore provided, before 
the exclusion ot any other candidate. 

(11) (i) When the number of continuing candidates is 
reduced to the number of vacancies remaining unfilled, 
the continuing candidates shall be declared elected, 

(11) When only one vacancy remains unfilled and the 
value of the voles of some one continuing candidate ex- 
ceeds the total value of all the votes of the other continu- 
ing candidates, together with any surplus not transferred, 
that canclidate shall be declared elected. 

(iii) When only one vacancy remains unfilled ancl there 
are only two continuing candidates, and those two candi- 
dates have each the same value of votes and no surplus re- 
mains capable of transfer, one candidate shall be declared 
excluded under the next succeeding sub-regulation and the 
other declared elected. 

(12) If, when there is more than one surplus to distri- 
bute, two or more sutpluses are equal, or ir at any time 
it becomes necessary to exclude a candidate and two or 
more candidates have the same values of votes and are 
lowest on the poll, regard shall be had to the original 
votes ot each candidate, and the candidate for whom 
fewest original votes are recorded shall have his surplus 
first distributed, or shall be first excluded, as the case may 
be. If the values of their original votes are equal, the 
Secietaiy shall decide by lot which candidate shall have 
his sutplus distributed or be excluded. 

96. Procedure in case of a tie — Where after counting 
of votes, a tie is found to exist between any candidates 
and the addition of one vote shall entitle any of those 
candidates to be deflated elected, lots shall be drawn and 
the successful candidate shall be considered to have 
received an additional vote and shall be declared to be 
duly elected. 

97. Appointment of scrutinisers — The Secretary shall 
appoint two persons who are neither members of the 
Council nor candidates for election to act as scrutinisers 
of the voting papers and to assist him generally in count- 
ing the votes. 

98. Presence of candidates at the time of counting of 
voles — A candidate for election shall be entitled to be pre- 
sent in person or to appoint a member as a representative, 
to be piesent on his behalf at the time of the counting of 
votes. 

99. Notification of the declaration of remits — The names 
of all the candidates declared elected shall be notified by 
the Council in the Gazette of India. 

100. Finality of Secretary’s decision-— (1) The decision of 
the Secretary shall be final in all matters, not only in regard 
to the application of the provisions of the regulations con- 
tained in this Chapter, but also in respect of all other 
matters not specifically covered by these provisions: 

Provided that an appeal against the Secretary’s decision 
may be presented to the Couhcil, by a candidate or his 
authorised representative, within ten days from the date 
of communication of the decision to him or his authoiised 
representative, and the appeal shall be dealt with by the 
same Committee and in the same manner as specified in 
regulation 67. 



Past III— 8m 4] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


321 


(2) No election shall he deemed lo he invalid merely 
by reason ol the accidental omission to send, or delay m 
sending a voting paper to a voter, or the accidental non- 
leceipt of, or delay in leceiving, a voting papei by a voter, 
ot any othei accidental lriegularity or nitoiinaliiy m the 
conduct of the election 

101 Disci plmary action against member in connection 
with conduct of election — A member shall be liable to dis- 
ciplinary anion by the Council, if he adopts one or mine 
of the following practices with regard to the election to 
the Council, namely: 

(1) Bribery, that ts to say, any gift, oiler or promise, of 
»wy gratification to a person whomsoever, by a candi 
Rate or any other person, with Ins connivance, with the 
object, directly or indirectly, of inducing — - 

(a) a member to stand or not to stand as, or to with- 
dtaw from being a candidate at an election; oi 

(b) a voter to vote or refrain from voting at an elec 
tion, 

or as a rewaid to — - 

(i) a member for having so stood or not stood, oi for 
having withdrawn his candidature; or 

(n) a voter for having voted or refrained from voting. 

Explanation — lot the purposes of this clause, the term 
"gratification” is not restucted to pecuniary gratifications 
or gratifications estimable in money, and it includes all 
forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for 
'inward, but it docs not include the payment of any ex 
penses bunapde inclined at, ot for the purpose of any 
election. “ 

(2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct or indirect 
interference or attempt to interfere on the part of a un 
didate or of any other person, with his connivance, with the 
free exercise of any electoral right: 

'^Provided that a declaration of policy or a promise of a 
particular action, or the mere exercise of a . legal right, 
without intent to inteiferc with an electoral right, shall 
not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of 
this clause 

(3) The publication by a candidate or by any other 
person, with his connivance, of any statement of fact 
tfflnch is false, and which he cither believes to be false or 
does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of any candidate or in relation to 
the candidature or withdrawal of any candidate, being 
i statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the ptos- 
iects of that candidate's election 

(4) r I he obtaining or procuring or abetting or aitempt- 
Hg to obtain or procure, by a candidate or by any other 
verson, with his connivance, any assistance for the further 

■ lice of the prospects of the candidate’s election from any 
verson serving under the Government of India or the Gov 
■rnment of any State, other than the giving of vote by such 
ierson, if he is a member entitled to vote. 

(5) The lilting or procuring, whether on payment or 
aherwise, of a vehicle by a candidate or by any other 
■exson, with his connivance, for the conveyance of voters. 

(6) The canvassing for votes, or soliciting the vote of 
ny voter, or persuading any voter not to vote for any 
articular candidate, or persuading any voter not to vote 
t the election, or exhibiting any notice or sign (other than 
tp official notice), relating to the election, by a candidate 
- by any other person, with his connivance, within a dis 
mce of 200 metres from a polling booth, 

(7) Any act specified in sub regulations (1) to (6) above, 
hen done by a member, who is not a candidate or a 
ember acting with the connivance of a candidate. 

(8) The receipt of, or agreement to receive, any gratifi- 
ition, whether as a motive or a reward — 

(a) by a member for standing or not standing, as, or 
withdrawing from being, a candidate; or 

(b) by any member whomsoever for himself or any 
other peison for voting or refraining from voting, 
or for inducing or attempting to induce any voter 
to vote or reft am from voting, or any candidate 
to withdraw his candidature. 


(9) Gondavcntion or misuse of any of the provisions of 
this Chapter or making of any false statement knowing it 
to be false or without knowing it to be true, while comply- 
ing with any of the provisions of this Chapter 

102 Election dispute — (1) On receipt of an application 
under subsection (2) of section 10, the Ptcsident shall refer 
the matter lo the Tribunal within thirty days of its 
receipt 

(2) At the time of giving its decision, the Tribunal mav 
pass such older as to co*ts as it may consider appropiiate. 

(3) If the Tribunal is satisfied that an application made 
under sub section (2) of section 10, was not founded on a 
valid gtound, the Tribunal may award costs to the Council 

CHAPTER VII 
Regional Councils 

103 Constitution of Regional Councils — (1) (i) Regional 
Councils may be constituted for one or moic of the regional 
constituencies mentioned hereunder or as may be sepcihed 
from time to time by the Central Government under clause 
(a) of sub section (2) of section 9 

I The States of Mahai ashtra ik Gujarat. 

if The States of Madras, Andhra Piadesh, Kerala and 
Mysore. 

III The States of West Bengal, Assam, Orissa and the 
Union Territories of Manipur and Tripura. 

IV 1 he States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya 
Pradesh and Rajasthan 

V. The Union Territories of Delhi and Himachal 
Pradesh and the State of Punjab. 

(n) The Regional Councils shall at all times function 
subject to the control, supervision and direction of the 
Council and/oi any of its Committees. 

104. Names of Regional Councils — The Regional 
Councils set up for the aforesaid regional constituencies 
shall be known respectively as Western India Regional 
Council, Southern India Regional Council, Eastern India 
Regional Council, Central India Regional Council and 
Northern India Regional Council, and the regions covered 
by the respective constituencies shall be called Western 
Region, Southern Region, Eastern Region, Central Region, 
and Northern Region. 

105 Jurisdiction of Regional Councils - — (1) The jurisdic 
tion of the Western India Regional Council shall extend to 
the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or the constituency 
as may from time to time be specified by the Cenlial Gov 
eminent under clause (a) of sub section (2) of section 9, 
which includes the State of Mahai ashtra. 

(2) The jurisdiction of the Sourthern India Regional 
Council shall extend to the States of Madras, Andhra 
Piadesh, Kerala and Mysore, or the constituency as may 
from tune to tunc be specified by the Central Government 
under clause (a) of sub section (2) of section 9, which 
includes the State of Madras. 

(3) The juiisdiction of the Eastern India Regional 
Council shall extend to the States of West Bengal, Assam, 
Orissa and the Union Territoiies of Manipur and Tripura, 
or the constituency as may from time to time be specified 
by the Central Government under clause (a) of sub section 
(~) of section 9, wdnch includes the State of West Bengal. 

(4) The jurisdiction of the Central India Regional 
Council shall extend to the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, 
Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, or the constituency as may 
from time to time be specified by the Central Government 
under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 9, which 
includes the State of Uttar Pradesh. 

(5) The jurisdiction of the Northern India Regional 
Council shall extend to the Union Territories of Delhi 
and Himachal Pradesh and the State of Punjab, or the 
constituency as may from time to time be specified by the 
Central Government under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of 
section 9, which includes the Union Territory of Delhi. 



f f*ART III — SkO, 4 


322 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1263 


106. Duties and flint titms of Regional Count ils — 1 lie 
duties and Junctions of a Regional Council shall be: — 

(i) to provide facilities for intercouise among mem- 
bers in its legion by tegulai meetings, arrange- 
ment of talks and lectuies and toi the acquisition 
and dissemination of useful information; 

(li) to award prizes for professional auivitics; 

(iii) to advice the Council on all matteis refer ted to 
it and to olfei such other assistance as may be 
required; 

(iv) to make representations to the Council in connec- 
tion with matters of professional and business 
interest in its region and to offer suggestions for 
the amendment of the Act and these Regulations, 
for raising the standard and status of the pro- 
fession; 

(v) to maintain a regional register of members, and 
registers of articled clerks and audit clerks in its 
region; 

(vi) to supply routine information to members or to 
the prospective candidates for articles or exami- 
nations; 

(vii) to propagate among the members the advisabi- 
lity and the necessity of observing the rules of pro- 
fessional etiquette and the provisions of the Act 
and these Regulations; 

(viii) to collect news front the members of the profession 
* for publication in the Journal of the Institute, if 
necessary; 

(ix) to recommend on its own motion, or on reference 
by the Council, names for inclusion in the panel 
of examiners; 

(x) to consider and recommend to the Council books 
which may be considered useful for candidates in- 
tending to appear for the Preliminary, T nterrne- 
diate and Final Examinations; 

(xi) to arrange, if found practicable, for coaching 
candidates for the aforesaid Examinations at 
convenient centres in its region; 

(xii) to gather material from the Departments of the 
Government in the States within its region for 
the purpose of enlisting their support in the fur- 
therance of the interests of the members; 

(xiii) to run study-circles with sub committees or 
branches for auditing, direct taxes, company law, 
costing, sales tax, etc; 

(xiv) to constitute a permanent research sub-committee 
for promoting research by members in topics of 
interest to the profession; 

(xv) to maintain a library and a reading room for the 
use of the members; 

(xvi) to hold refresher course camps at convenient 
centres for the benefit of the members; 

(xvii) to maintain an employment exchange for securing 
suitable employment for qualified accountants and 
finding suitable qualified accountants tor emp- 
loyers; and 

(xviii) to carry out such other functions as may be entrus- 
ted from time to time to it by the Council and/or 
any of its Committees. 

107. Maintenance of regional register ■ — A Regional Coun- 
cil shall maintain a register to be known as "regional 
register" in which the names of the members, whose pro- 
fessional addresses are situated in its region, shall be en- 
tered. 

108. Removal from the regional register — The name of 
a member, which has been removed from the register, shall 
ipso facto be removed from the relative regional register 
and the member shall also cease to be a member of the 
Regional Council. 

109. Constitution of Regional Councils — A Regional 
Council shall consist of — 

(i) all the elected and nominated members of the 
Council in its legion; and 

(ii) such members as may be elected by the members 
in the region. 

Explanation: A nominated member of the Council 
shall be deemed to be a member of the Regional Council in 


whose region is situated the address given by the Central 
Government to the Council. 

110, Flection to and resignation from Regional Council — - 
(1) (i) A member shall be entitled To vote at and stand 
lor any election to the Regional Council from the region 
within which his professional address falls on a dare im- 
mediately six months prior to the dale on which 
the list of members eligible to vote at and stand for 
that election is published; Provided his name has been 
borne on the regional register continuously for a period 
of noL fess than six months immediately prior to the date 
ot the publication of the list and he rs not in arrears in 
respect of the annual membership fee and the regional 
courrcil fee on the 30th June of the year in which th‘» 
election is to be conducted. 

(ii) (a) At least three months before lire date or dates 
of polling fixed for an election the Council shall publish 
a list of members eligtble to vote showing whether a voter 
is an associate or a fellow. 

(h) The list of members shall be put on the notice boarejf 
of the Council and the notice boards of the Regional 
Councils. 

(c) The list shall be available on payment of such price 
as may be fixed by the Council and this shall be notified 
in the Gazette of India and the Institute’s Journal. 

(d) The Council shall publish in the Gazelle of India 
a notire stating the number of members to be elected and 
calling for nominations of candidates for election by a 
specified date which shall not be less than 14 days from the? 
date of the publication of the notice. 

(2) A member whose name stands removed from the 
Register of members maintained by the Council on the 
date on which Ire is to cast his vote shall not be eligible 
either to vote or stand for the election, notwithstanding the 
fact that his name has been published in the list of voters, 

(31 A candidate for election to the Regional Commit 
shall pay a fee of fifty rupees to the Council. 

(4) The number of members to be elected to the 
Regional Council shall be one for every hundred and 
twenty five memhers in the region, entitled to vote at and 
stand for election, fractions exceeding half being Counted 
as one and fractions equivalent to or less than half beinn-- 
omitted : 

Provided however that there shall be at least five elected 
members in each Regional Council. 

(5) The election to the Regional Councils shall be con- 
ducted by the Council in such manner as may be specified 
by it in that behalf. 

(6) Where any dispute arises regarding any election to a 
Regional Council, the matter shall be referred wilhijt 
thirty days from the date of the declaration of the result 
of the election, to the President and his decision shall be 
final. 

(7) Subject to the provisions hereinbefore mentioned, the 
rules regarding elections prescribed in Chapter VI of these 
Regulations shall, as far as possible, apply to the elections 
to the Regional Councils. 

(8) (i) Any member of a Regional Council may at any 
time resign his membership by writing under his hand 
addressed to the Chairman of the Regional Council and 
the scat of such member shall become vacant when such 
resignation is notified in the Gazette of India. 

(ii) If an elected member of a Regional Council s 
elected to the Council during the duration of the Regional 
Council, such member shall cease to be an elected member 
of the Regional Council and the vacancy so caused may be 
filled by election. 

(iii) An elected member of a Regional Council shall b 
deemed to have vacated his seat on the said Council if he 
absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the 
Regional Council without leave of absence. 

(iv) Any casual vacancy on a Regional Council shall b‘ 
filled by a fresh election and the person so elected shal 
hold office until the dissolution of the Regional Council, .t 

(v) No act done by a Regional Council shall be callei 
in question on the ground merely of the existence of an 
vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the Regiona 
Council. 



Part III— Beo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


323 


111, Office bearers and Committed — (1) (i) A Regional 
Council shall, at its meeting held in the latter half of the 
month of September evciy year, as provided hereinafter, 
shall elect out of its members a Chairman, a Vice- 
Chaiiman, a Secretary and a Treasure) thereof. 

(ii) ff within half an hour from the time appointed for 
such a meeting, a quorum as piovided is not present, the 
said meeting shall, notwithstanding anything contained in 
regulation 116 stand adjourned to the same clay in the 
next week at the same time and place and at such ad- 
journed meeting of the Regional Council, the member 
present, whatevet their number, shall form the quorum and 
shall have the power to Liansact all the business, which 
loulcl propeily have been transacted at the original meeting, 
if the necessary quorum had been present. 

(iii) A vacancy of any of the offices hereinbefore men- 
tioned, shall be filled by election, 

(iv) On the dissolution of a Regional Council, the Chair- 
man, the Secretary and the Tteasurcr for the time being, 
shall discharge the duties and functions of the Chairman, 
the Secretary and (he Treasurer respectively as herein 
provided until such time as the Chanman, the Secietarv 
and tfie Treasurer of the next Regional Council are elected 
rnd take charge of their respective duties. 

(2) The Chairman of a Regional Council shall be the 
Chief Executive Authority of the Regional Council. 

(3) The Secretary shall be responsible for the perform- 
ance of the general duties appeitaining to the office, under 
the guidance of the Chairman, or in his absence the Vice- 
Chairman. 

(4) The Treasure! shall cause true accounts to be 
maintained of the assets and liabilities and also of the 
moneys received and expended and shall deal with matters 
in respect of which such receipts and expenditure take 
place. 

(5) The said office-bearers shall hold office until the meei- 
ing of the Regional Council in the next year to be hi Id 
In the latter half of September, as provided hereinafter. 

(6) The retiring officc-beatets shall be eligible foi re- 
jection to any of the offices of the Regional Council if they 
:ontinue to he members in the region. 

(7) The Regional Council at a meeting shall constitute 
>uch committees as the Council may direct and may also 
: orm such othei committees as it deems necessary for the 
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Chapler. 

(8) A committee shall consist of the Chairmaft or the 
Pice-Chairman of the Regional Council ex-officio and such 
ithcr members ot the Regional Council as may be elected 
ay it: 

Provided that theie shall be at least three membets in- 
dueling the Chairman oi the Vice-Chairman in a com- 
nittec. 

Provided further that in the case of any committee cons- 
Jtuted under the direction ot the Council, one member 
Jiall be nominated In the Council from amongst its mem- 
bers in the region. 

(9) The Regional Council shall elect any member of the 
committee to be its Chairman: 

Provided that in the case of any committee constituted 
under the direction of the Council, unless otherwise nomi- 
nated by the Council, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman 
of the Regional Council, as the case may he, shall be the 
Chairman of that committee. 

* 

(10) A member of a committee shall hold office until Lhe 
meeting ol the Regional Council in the next yeai to be 
held in the latter half of September, as piovided hereinafter, 
but subject to being a member of the Regional Council, he 
shall be eligible tor re-election, 

(11) The rules regarding meetings of the Regional 
Council prescribed hereinafter shall, as far as possible, be 
applicable to meetings of committees of the Regional 
Couniil. 

, 112. Finance and accounts — (1) (i) A Regional Council 

shall be self-suppoi ting and shill not borrow or obtain 
credit without the prior sanction ol the Council, 


(ii) A Regional Council may levy such further fees as 
it may consider necessary from members participating in 
specific activities. 

(iii) A Regional Council may, with the prior sandion of 
the Council, collect voluntary contributions foi any speci- 
fic activity. 

(2) (i) The funds of a Regional Council shall be kept 
in one of the scheduled banks approved by the Council in 
this behalf. 

(ii) The funds of a Regional Council shall be employed 
for such purposes as may from time to time be sanctioned 
by the Regional Council: 

Provided that no such funds shall he applied either 
directly or indirectly for payment to the members of the 
Regional Council except for reimbursing them for any 
expenses incurred by them in connection with the business 
of the Regional Council in its region. 

(3) The accounts of a Regional Council as maintained 
by the Treastuet, shall be audited every year by a chartered 
accountant in ptaclice or a lirm of such charteted accoun- 
tants appointed by the members of the region at their 
annual general meeting and the accounts, together with 
the audit report and the report ol the Regional Council, 
shall be sent to the members in the region at least 14 days 
before the date of lire annual general meeting and shall 
be placed for adopting before Lhe annual general meeting 
of the members. 

(4) (i) A copy of (he audited accounts and the teport of 
the Regional Council, as adopted by the annual geneial 
meeting, shall be sent to the Council not later than one 
month after the date of the annual general meeting. 

(ii) The audited accounts of the Regional Councils 
shall be annexed to the accounts of the Council for the 
year. 

113. Duties and powers of Regional Council — The 
duty of carrying out the provisions of this Chapter is 
enjoined on the Regional Council and each Regional 
Council is vested with the powers for carrying out the 
object of these Regulations. 

Ill Appointment of staff-- A Regional Council may ap- 
point such staff and servants for its office as it may from 
time to time delei mine. 

11 r >. Property, assets and funds — All the property, assets 
and funds of a Regional Council shall vest in the Council, 
but the Regional Council shall administer them subject to 
the control, supervision and direction of the Council and/ 
or its Executive Committee, 

116. Meetings of Regional Council — -(1) A Regional 
Council may meet as often as necessary for the conduct of 
its business : 

Provided that one meeting shall be held in the lattct half 
of the month of September every year 

(2) Business before a Regional Council shall ordinarily 
be conducted at a meeting of the Regional Council: 

Provided that the Chairman, ot in his absence the Vice- 
Chairman, may in an appropriate case circulate the papers 
relating to it among all the members of the Regional 
Council for decision : 

Provided further that no decision on the case shall be 
taken by citculation. unless not less than two thirds of the 
membets agtee to deride the case by circulation. In the 
pvent of such majority not agreeing, the Chairman or the 
Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, shall withdraw the 
papers from circulation and have the question decided 
at a meeting of the Regional Council. 

(3) Where the papers i elating to anv case are circulated 
among the members, a period of not less than fifteen days 
(oniniericiug from the date of the circulation shall elapse 
before any decision is taken on the case: 

Piovided that a decision mav be taken before the cxpiiv 
of such period if the views of all the membets are teeeived 
earlier. 

(4) 'T he decision taken bv the circulation of papers shall 
be put up for information before the Regional Council at 
its next meeting. 

117. Notice of Meeting — (1) The Secretary to the Re- 
gional Council shall issue by post or othei wise notice in 



324 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 [ Part III— Seo. 4 


writing at least 14 days before the date of the meeting 
to every member of the Regional Council: 

Provided that if any two of the following, namely, the 
Chairman, the Vice Chairman and the Secretary of the 
Regional Council, consider it necessary, a meeting of the 
Regional Council may be convened at a shorter notice not 
being less than seven days, or with the approval of the 
members of the Regional Council at a still shorter notice. 

(2) The notice shall contain the time, date and place of 
meeting and, as far as possible, the business to be transacted 
thereat. 

(3) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, the 
Chairman or any three members of the Regional Council 
may ask the Secretary to call a meeting on a specified date 
and time. 

118. Quotum— No business shall be ttansacted at any 
meeting %inless there is a quorum of three members. If this 
quorum is not present, the meeting shall stand adjourned 
‘sine die’. 

119. Chairman of meeting — ' The Chairman, or in his 
absence the Vice-Chairman, shall preside at a meeting of 
the regional toqncil: 

Provided that in their absence, the members present at 
the meeting may elect one among themselves to preside at ‘ 
the meeting, 

120. Derision by majority — (1) All the questions before a 
Regional Council shall be decided by a majority of votes. 

(2) If the votes on a question arc equal the Chairman of 
the meeting shall have a tasting vote. 

121. Meetings of members of regions — A Regional 
Council may calj a meeting of the members of the region as 
often as it may deem necessary: 

Provided that two meetings shall be called in every year. 

122. Annual general meeting — (1) A general meeting 
shall be called between (he 15th day of June and the 15th 
day of July eveiy year and it shall be called the annual 
general meeting, 

(2) Any other meeting shall be called an extraordinary 
genera] meeting. 

123. Notice of meeting— At least 14 days’ notice of every 
meeting specifying (he day, place and hour of such meeting 
and in the case of special business, the general nature of 
the business, shall be given, 

124. Fxtraordinary general meeting — (1) The Regional 
Council shall, on a requisition made in writing by at least 
20 per cent of the total number of meinbres of the region 
or fifty members of the region, whichever is less, convene 
an extraordinary general meeting. 

(2) Any such requisition shall specify the object for 
which the meeting is requisitioned, shall be signed by the 
members making the same and shall be delivered at the 
office of the Regional Council. 

(3) On a valid requisition, the Regional Council shall 
convene an extraordinary general meeting within six 
weeks of the receipt of the requisition 

(41 If the Regional Council fails to convene the extra- 
ordinary general meeting as provided bv sub-regulation 3, 
the requisitionists may convene a meeting within three 
months from the date of the requisition. 

125. Resolutions — (1) A member of the region shall be 
entitled to move any resolution for the consideration of 
the meeting of the members: 

Provided that a draft of the resolution is received by the 
Secretary to the Regional Council at least 20 days before 
the date of the meeting: 

Provided further that the Chairman of the meeting may 
admit a resolution in respect of which a shorter notice is 
received. 

(2) Any proposal received after the prescribed time and 
not admitted by the Chairman of the meeting, shall be 
treated as a proposal for the next following meeting of the 
members. 

126. Business before the annual meeting — The business 
before the annual general meeting shall he to receive the 
report of Regional Council, to adopt the accounts, to 
appoint auditors and to transact such other business as 
may be brought before the meeting with the permission of 
the Chairman of the meeting. 


127. Chairman of meeting — The Chairman, or in his 
absence the Vice-Chairman of the Regional Council, shall 
preside at a general meeting: 

Piovided that in their absence, the members present at 
the meeting may elect one among themselves to preside at 
the meeting. 

128. Quorum — (1) No business shall be transacted at a 1 
general meeting unless there is a quorum at the commence- 
ment of the meeting. 

(2)> Twenty members shall form a quorum. 

129. Absence of quorum — If within half an hour from 
the time appointed for the meeting, a quorum is not 
sent, the meeting, if convened upon a requisition as afore- 
said, shall stand dissolved; but in any other case shall 
stand adjourned to the same day in the next week at the 
same time and place and at such adjourned meeting the' 
members present, whatever their number, shall have power 
to transact all the business which could properly have been 
transacted by the original meeting had the netcssaiy quoruiM- 
been present thereat, 

130. Decision by majority — (1) All the questions before a 
general meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes. 

(2) If the votes on a question are equal, the Chairman 
shall have a casting vote. 

131. What members not entitled to vote — No person shall 
be entitled to vote at a general meeting unless his name is 
on the regional register and he has paid his annual 
membership fee and regional council fee. 

132. Term of Regional Council — (1) The lerm of a 
Regional Council shall be three years from the date, which 
shall be specified by the Council: 

Provided that the Council may, if in its opinion circums- 
tances so wairanl, extend or shorten the term of a Regional 
Council by a notification in this behalf. 

i2) On the expiry of the term of a Regional Council, a 
new T Regional Council shall he consti tutecl in the manner 
piovided hereinbefoie. 

133. Dissolution of Regional Council — -Notwithstanding 
anything contained hereinbefore, a Regional Council shall 
stand dissolved if: 

(r) a majority of three fourths of the membcis on tli# 
regional register pass a resolution for dissolution 
at a general meeting of the members; or 

(ii) after giving an opportunity to it of being heard, 
the Council decides to dissolve the Regional 
Council. 

134. Branches of Regional Council — (1) The Council 
may, by a notification in the Gatette of India, set up , 
branch of a Regional Council in a city other than the heacT 
quarters of the Regional Council: 

Provided that not less than 50 members are residing in 
the ejty or within a distance of 10 miles from the city 
limits. 

(2) A branch shall function subject to tbc control, super* 
vision and direction of tbe Council through the RegionSr 
Council and shall carry out such directions as may from time 
to time be issued by the Council. 

CHAPTER VIII 

Meetings and Proceedings of the Council 

135. Meetings of Council— (1) The Council shall meet at 
least once in every six months at such tinie and place as the 
President may determine. 

(2) Within fourteen days of the dissolution of a Council 
as provided iu.^subsertion (1) of section 14, a electing of 
the new Council shall he held. 

136. Notice of Council meeting— A notice of the time and 
place of a .meeting shall be sent to the registered address of 
every member of the Council not less than twenty-one davs 
before such meeting and such notice shall, as far as practic- 
able, contain a statement of the business to be transacted af' 
tbe meeting: 

Provided that in the case of a special meeting, the Presl 
dent may inform the members of the subject for discussion 
at the meeting. 



Part 111— Sko. 4] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 




137. Special meetings of Council — A special meeting of 
the Council may at any time be called by the President, or 
in his absence by the Vice-President, or at the lequest in 
writing addressed to the Secretary, by at least 25 per cent 
of the members of the Council for the time being. 

138. Chairman of meeting — At a meeting of the Council, 
the President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall 
preside, or in the absence of both, a member elected from 
among the members who are present, shall preside. 

139. Quorum at meeting— { 1) One-third of the total 
number of members shall constitute a quorum. 

(2) If, at the time appointed for a meeting, there is no 
Quorum and if on the expiration of half an hour from the 
time appointed for the meeting, there is no quorum, the 
meeting shall stand adjourned to such time, date and place 
as the Chairman of the meeting may appoint. 

(3) No quorum shall be required for the meeting ad- 
journed under sub-regulation (2). 

140. Procedure for transaction of business — (1) The 
'business of the Council shall ordinarily be transacted at a 
meeting of the Council: 

Provided that the President, or in his absence the Vice- 
President, may in an appropriate case circulate the papers 
among the members ot the Council tor deciding any 
question : 

Provided further that if eight members of the Council 
require that any question be decided at a meeting, the 
.President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall with- 
draw the papers from circulation and have the question de- 
termined at a meeting of the Council. 

(2) Where the papers relating to any question are cir- 
culated among the members, a period of not less than 15 
days, commencing from the date of the circulation ot the 
papers, shall elapse before any decision is taken on the 
question : 

* Provided that a decision may be taken before the expiry 
of such period if the opinion of all the members is received 
earlier. 

(3) The decision shall be in accordance with the opinion 
in writing of the majority of the members. 

(4) A decision taken by the circulation of the papers shall 
be communicated to all the members of the Council. 

141. Passing of resolution at a meeting — At a meeting 
of the v Council, a resolution shall be passed by a majority 
of the members present unless otherwise required by the 
Act or these Regulations, and in the case of equality 
of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a cast- 
ing vote. 

142. Adjournment of a meeting — (1) Subject to the pro- 
visions of these Regulations, the Chairman of a meeting 
of the Council may, with the consent of the members 
present, adjourn the meeting from time to time and from 
place to place but no business, other than the business 
left unfinished at a meeting, shall be transacted at the 
adjourned meeting. 

(2) No notice may be given of an adjourned meeting 
unless it is so directed by the resolution for adjournment. 

143. Record of minutes— (1) Minutes shall be recorded 
of a meeting of the Council. 

(2) The minutes, after having been approved by the 
members and signed by the Chairman of the next meet- 
ing, shall be sufficient evidence of the proceedings of the 
Council. 

CHAPTER IX 

Standing and other Committees 

144. Time and place of meeting — (1) The President fnay 
at any time, and shall on the requisition of any two mem- 
bers of a Standing Committee, call a meeting of the 
Committee. 

(2) The meeting of a Standing Committee shall be held 
at such place and at such time as the President may direct. 

(3) A notice of not less than seven days of every such 
meeting shall ordinarily be given to every member of the 
Committee. 

145. Quorum — (1) No business shall be transacted at a 
meeting of a Standing Committee unless there are present 
at least three members, including the President or in his 
absence, the Vice-President, 


(2) If there is no quorum within half an hour of the time 
fixed for the meeting, the meeting shall stand adjourned to 
a date, time and place fixed by the President or in his 
absence the Vice-President. 

146. Procedure for transaction of business — (1) The 
business ot a Standing Committee shall ordinarily be trans- 
acted at a meeting of the Committee. 

Provided that the President, or in his absence the 
Vice-President, may in an appropriate case circulate the 
papeis relating to it among the members of the Committee 
for decision: 

Provided further that if three members of the Committee 
require that any question be decided at a meeting, the 
President, or in his absence the Vice-President, shall with- 
draw the papers from circulation and have the question 
determined at a meeting of the Committee. 

(2) Where the papers relating to any question are cir- 
culated among the members, a period of not less than 
fifteen days, commencing from the date of the circulation 
of the papers, shall elapse before any decision is taken on 
the question : 

Provided that a decision may be taken before the expiry 
of such period if the opinion of all the members is received 
eailier, 

(3) A decision taken by the circulation of the papers 
shall be communicated to all the members. 

147. Casting Vote — -All the questions before a Standing 
Committee shall be decided by a majority of votes and in 
the case of equajity of votes, the President, or in his absence 
the Vice-President, shall have a casting vote. 

148. Minutes — (1) The Secretary shall be the Secretary 
for every Standing Committee. 

(2) The Secretary shall maintain a record of the business 
transacted by the Committee cither by the circulation of 
the papers or at a meeting of the Committee. 

149. Executive Committee — (1) The Executive Com- 
mittee shall petform the following functions, namely: — 

(a) maintenance of office of the Council and for this 
purpose the Executive Committee may employ, 
suspend, discharge or re-employ the necessary 
staff on such terms and conditions as it may deem 
fit: 

(h) maintenance of true and correct accounts of all 
the receipts and payments on behalf of the Council 
and the matters in respect of which such receipts 
and payments take place and of all the property, 
securities, debts, funds and liabilities of the Insti- 
tute; 

(c) maintenance of the Register, register of articled 
and audit clerks and all other statutory registers 
which are prescribed by the Act or these Regula- 
tions; 

(d) custody of the property, assets and funds of the 
Institute; 

(e) investment of the spare funds of the Institute in 
securities approved by the Council and to vary 
such investments from time to time; 

(f) disbursements from the funds of the Institute for 
expenditure, both revenue and capital, within the 
estimates previously sanctioned by the Council: 

Provided that in an emergent case, expenditure, in ex- 
cess of the estimates, previously sanctioned by the Council 
may be incurred by the Committee but such excess expendi- 
ture shall be brought to the notice of the Council at its next 
meeting; and 

(g) admission of fellows, removal and restoration of 
names of members, cancellation of certificates of 
practice, issue of certificates of membership, 
prosecution of members on the findings of the 
Council, granting permission to chartered accoun- 
tants in practice or firms of such chartered accoun- 
tants to have a branch office in India without 
being in separate charge of a member until the 
Council decides the matter, placing before the 
Council cases of infringement of non technical 
nature, of the provisions of sub-section (1) of 
section 27 and cases of infringement of a techni- 
cal nature exceeding six months, publication of 
the list of members and issue of the Journal, 



The gazette ot India, June 2 2, 


t Past III— Sbo. 4 


326 


(2) The Executive Committee may delegate any of its 
functions to the President or the Vice-President. 

(3) The Council shall have the power to review any 
decision taken by the Executive Committee or by the 
President or the Vice-President in the perfomiance of the 
functions delegated to it to him. 

150. Examination Committee — (1) The Examination 
Committee shall perform all the functions of the Council 
relating to the examinations, such as holding of examina- 
tions, admissions thereto, maintenance of proper discipline 
during the examinations, appointment and selection of ex- 
aminers, prescription of books for the guidance of candi- 
dates, declaration of results, payment of remuneration to 
examiners and/or assistant examiners, superintendents of 
the examinations and others. 

(2) Except as otherwise provided by these Regulations, 
the Examination Committee shall exetcise all the functions 
in relation to articled clerks and audit clerks. 

(3) The Examination Committee may delegaate any of its 
functions to the President or the Vice-President. 

( 4 ) The Council shall have the power to review any 
decision taken by the Examination Committee or the Presi- 
dent or the Vice-President in the performance of the func- 
tions delegated to it or him. 

151. Committees other than Standing Committees — (1) 
Committees other than Standing Committees appointed by 
the Council under sub-section (2) of section 17, shall con- 
sist of a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman and such other mem- 
bers of the Council, as may be elected on it by the Council 
and any other members who may be co-opted, with the 
sanction of the Council. 

(2) The committees shall discharge such functions as may 
be directed by the Council from time to time. 

(3) The provisions contained in regulations 144, 145, 116, 
147 and 148, relating to the time and place of meetings, 
quorum, procedure for transaction of business, casting 
vote, minutes, etc. shall apply ‘mutatis mutandis' to such 
committees except that the reference to President and Vice- 
President in the regulations referred to above, shall be 
construed as reference to Chairman and Vice-Chairman res- 
pectively of a committee and the Secretary shall be the 
Secretary for only such of the committees as may be 
directed by the Council. 

152. Sub-committees of Standing and other Committees 
— (1) The Council or any Standing Committee or other 
committee may appoint a subcommittee consisting of its 
members and such other members, as it may consider ex\ 
pedient. 

(2) Every sub committee shall have a Chairman who 
shall also be the convenor of the sub committee. 

(3) A sub-committee shall discharge such functions as 
may be directed by the Council or the committee con- 
cerned. 

(4) The Chairman of a sub-committee may at any time 
and shall, on a requisition of not less than one third of 
members of the sub committee, call a meeting of the sub- 
committee. 

(5) The meeting shall be held at such place, time and 
date as the Chairman may decide. 

(6) A notice of not less than seven days of every such 
meeting shall ordinarily be given to every member of the 
subcommittee. 

(7) One half or three of the members of the sub- 
committee, whichever is greater, shall form a quorum. In 
the event of there being no quorum within half an hour 
of the time fixed for the meeting, the meeting shall stand 
adjourned to a date, time and place specified by the 
Chairman of the meeting. 

(8) In the event of the Chairman of a sub committee 
failing to call a meeting of the sub committee inspite of a 
requisition under sub-regulation ( 4 ), within 7 days of the 


receipt of the requisition, the members who h5d sent the 
requisition may themselves convene the meeting, elect their 
own Chaiiman and transact business for which the requisi- 
tion had been sent. 

(9) The Chaiiman of any meeting of a subcommittee 
shall maintain a record of all the business transacted by the 
subcommittee. 

(10) All questions belore a sub committee shall be de- 
cided by a majority of votes. In the event of equality of 
votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have a casting 
vote. 


CHAPTER X 
Misoeilaneous 

153. Headquarters of the Council — The headquarters of 
the Council shall be located at such a place as may btf 
notified by the Central Goveynnent in this behalf. 

154. Custody of common seal — The common seal shall 
be kept in the custody of the Secretary. 

155. Affixing common seal — All instruments on which 
the common seal is required to be affixed by or under any 
law shall be so affixed and countersigned by the Secretary. 

156. Method of payment of fees — All fees specified in 
these Regulations shall be paid to the Secretary in such* 
manner as the Council may direct. 

157. Issue of duplicate certificates — (1) Where a holder of 
a certificate granted by the Council has lost it, the Council 
may, on an application made in this behalf, duly supported 
by an affidavit of the applicant to the effect that he was in 
possession of such a certilicatc and had lost it, issue a dupli- 
cate, on receipt of a fee of ten rupees in the case of a certij 
ficate of membership as an associate or a fellow, a certifi- 
cate of practice as an associate or a fellow, and a certificate 
renewing a certificate of practice, and five rupees in the case 
of any other certificate. 

(2) Where aqy certificate granted by the Council is 
damaged, the Council may, on an application made in this, 
behalf, issue a duplicate on ieceipt of the fee prescribed* 
above and on return of the damaged certificate. 

158. Publication of list of members — While publishing 
the list of members under sub-section (3) of section 19, the 
Council may distinguish, in such manner as it may think 
fat, between the associates and fellows in practice and 
between the associates and fellows not in practice. 

159. Members to supply information — (]) For the pur-;) 
pose of the publication of the list of members, the Council 
may require membeis to supply such information as it 
considers relevant. 

160. Change in the professional or residential address — 
Every time tilery is a change in the professional address or 
residential addtess of a member, he shall within twenty 
eight days of the change, communicate the new address to^ 
the Council. 

161. Place of business— (1) Every member in practice 
shall have a place of business in India in his own charge 
or in charge of another member. 

(2) In the case of a member who is an employee of a 
chartered accountant or a firm of such chartered account- 
ants and is not holding a certificate of practice, the pro- 
fessional address ot the employer shall be deemed to be his 
place of business. 

(3) Except in the case of a person enrolled urider the 
proviso to section 4(1 )(v), a member not in practice may 
specify a place which shall be deemed to be his place of 
business for puij»oses of section 21 and these Regulations, 

(4) The postal address of the place of business shalL 
be intimated to_the Council at the time of making the ap- 

lication for membership and any change in the place ot 
usiness or the postal address shall be communicated tp 
the Council within 30 days of the change. 



Pabt III — Seo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE .22, 1963 


327 


(5) The Council may lemove the name of a member from 
.he Register who has contravened the provisions of this 
regulation. 

162 Proof of service of notice — All notices requned by 
:he Act oi these Regulations to be given to members shall 
ae forwarded b.y post to such professional arldiess (and if 
diere is no professional address residential address) as may 
rave been last registered with the Council, and for proving 
:hat such notice has been given, it shall be sufficient to 
prove that such notice was properly addressed and posted 

163 Council to be informed when a branch office is 
opened or closed — A chartered accountant in piactice oi a 
firm of such charteied accountants shall infoim the Council 
within sixty days of the opening or closing of a branch 
office 

16-1 Register of offices and firms — -(]) A chartered ac 
rountant in practice oi a firm of such chartered accountants 
shall within three months of the commencement of practhe 
or the formation of the firm supply to the Council in the 
appropriate Form particulars legarding his office or the 
firm, as the case may be. 

(2) The Council shall \maintain a register of offices and 
firms and shall register therein the particulars refer! ed to 
in sub regulation (1) 

(3) Everytune theie is a change in the particulars tc 
ferred to in sub-regulation (1). the member or the firm, as 
the case inav be, shall within sixty days communicate it to 
the Council. 

(4) The Council may, at its disci etion, refuse to register 
a trade or a firm name if that name is already used by a 
chartered accountant in practice or a firm of such 
chartered accountants and has been entered in the register 
of offices and firms. 

(5) Where the same trade or finn name has been re 
gistcred in the past, in the register of offices and hi ms, in 
the case of two or more members oi films, the Council ni.iv 
direct the member ot the firm, as the case may be, other 
than the one whose name was registered fust in the le 
gister of offices and firms, to alter the name in such 
mannet as the Council may considu proper and inform the 
Council ot such, alteration within six months of the issue 
of the direction. 

(6) (i) No mejmber shall practice under a craclc or firm 
name which has been refused registration under sub- 
regulation (4). 

(n) No membei shall pi active under a tiade or finn name 
in respect of which a direction has been issued undei sub 
regulation (5), after the expny of six months from the date 
of issue of the direction 

(7) Nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to 
films of chartered accountants in piactice with identical 
names, if at least one of the partners of the firms is com 
mon 

165 Chartered accountant in practice not to engage m 
any other business oi occupation — A chattered accountant 
in practice shall not engage in anv business or occupation 
other than the piofession of accountancy, except with the 

g crimssion granted in accgidancc with a resolution of the 
ouncil 

166 Part time employments a chartered accountant in 
practice may accept — Notwithstanding anything contained 
in regulation 165, but subject to the control of the Council, 
a chartered accountant in practice may act as a liquidator, 
trustee, executor, administrator atbmalor, leccnct, advisei 
or representative for costing, financial or taxation matter, 
or may take up an appointment that m ly be made 4iy the 
Central Government oi a Slate Government oi a Court ot 
Law or any other legal authority or iinj act as a sccietary 
in his professional capacilv, provided his employment is not 
on a salary cum full-time basis 

167 Restriction on fees — No charmed accountant in 
practice shall charge or offer to cbnge, accept or olfei to 
accept, in respect of any professional employment, tees 
which are based on a percentage of piofiis, or which ate 
contingent upon the findings, oi results of such emplov 
men t ■ 

Piovided that — 

(a) in the case of a teceivci ot a liquid, nor, the fees 
may be based on a peiccnlage of the realisation of 
the assets; 


(b) in the case of an auditor of a cooperative society, 
the fees may be based on a percentage of the paid 
up capital or the working capital or the gross or 
net income or piohts; and 

(c) in the case of a valuer for the purjsoses of diiect 
(axes and duties, the fees may be based on a per- 
centage of the value of the property 

168 Particulars of nationality — (1) A member shall sub- 
mit to the Council particulars regarding his nationality 

(2) Every change in such particulais shall -be intimated 
to the Council as early as possible, but in any case not later 
than twenty eight days from the date of such change. 

169 Maintenance of accounts — It shall be the duty of 
the Secretary to maintain or cause to be maintained proper 
accounts of the receipts and expenditure of the Council 

170 Nomination of auditors — (1) Ehc auditors shall be 
nominated by two members of the Council and such nomi- 
nation shall be signed by the membei s nominating and by 
the candidate, and shall be deposited at the office of the 
Council at least three days befoie the meeting. 

(2) The auditors who aie in office shall be deemed to 
have been iiomiatcd foi the next annual meeting unless 
they have intimated to the Secietary their desire not to be 
rc elected. 

171 Retirement of auditors — The auditors shall retire 
at the next annual meeting of the Council after their elec- 
tion, but shall be eligible for le election 

172 Remuneration of auditors — The Council shall deter 
mine the remuneration, if any, to be paid to the auditors 
elected at the annual meeting 

173 Casual vacancy m the office of auditors — If any 
vacancy occuis in the office of an auditor between two an- 
nual meetings or if a vacancy is not filled at an annual 
meeting, it may be filled by the Executive Committee, and 
the jierson appointed as auditor shall hold office until the 
next annual meeting, hut he shall he eligible foi election: 

Provided that during such vacancy the continuing audi- 
tor may act alone 

174 Audit of accounts — (1) The Council, not less than 
two months before the date of the annual meeting, shall 
dchvei to the auditots, the accounts of Ihe preceding year 
and the auditors shall examine such accounts and leport 
thereon, not less than one month before the date of the 
meeting 

(2) The auditors shall be entitled to ask for any informa- 
tion or explanation regarding the accounts tiom the Secre- 
tary and such information or explanation shall, as far as it 
is available at the time, be supplied to them 

175 h unctions to be performed by the President on the 
dissolution of the Council— On the expiration of the dura- 
tion of the Council, the President of the Council at the time 
of such expiration shall discharge all the administrative 
duties of the Council under the Act and these Regulations 
and all the functions of the Executive and Examination 
Committees of the Council until such tune as a new Presi- 
dent shall have been elected and shall have taken over 
charge of his duties: 

Provided, howevei, that the President for the time being 
shall call a meeting of the next Council to be held within 
foui teen days from the date of the dissolution ot the out- 
going Council 

176 Powers and duties of the President and Vi ce-Presi 
dent—( 1) The President shall exercise such powers and per- 
form such duties as are specified by the Act and these Regu 
lations, and as may be delegated by the Council and/or the 
Standing Committees tiom time to tunc 

(2) The President may direct any business to he brought 
before the Council or a Standing Committee for consideia 
lion 

(3) If the office of the President is vacant, or if the Piesi- 
dent for any reason ts unable to exercise the poweis or pei- 
forivj the duties of his office, the Vice President shall act m 
his place and shall exeicise the powers and perform the 
duties of the President 

177 Powers and duties of the Secretary Subject lo the 
general supervision of the President and/or the relevant 



328 


The gazette oe India, June 22, 1903 


[ Pabt III— Sho. 4 


Standing Committee, the Secretary shall exercise and per- 
form, in addition to the powers and duties specified by the 
Act and/or these Regulations in this behalf, the following 
powers and duties, namely: 

(1) being in charge of the office of the Institute as its 
executive head; 

(2) enrolling associates, admitting fellows, removing from 
the membership owing to death or non-payment of any 
prescribed fees or at a member's request and restoring to 
membership and issuing notifications therefor; 

(3) sanctioning and renewing of certificates of practice 
for associates and fellows, cancelling of certificates of prac- 
tice at the request of members; 

(4) granting of permission to members to be engaged in 
other occupations besides the practice of the profession of 
accountancy under tegulation Ifij within the categories per- 
mitted by the Council; 

(5) exempting any chartered accountant in practice or a 
firm of such chaitered accountants from the operation of 
sub-section (1) of section 27 for a period not exceeding six 
months, wheie the infringement is of a technical nature; 

(6) maintaining legisters, documents and forms as re- 
quired by the Act and these Regulations; 

(7) being in charge of all the propeity of the Institute; 

(8) making necessaty airangcments for receiving moneys 
due to the Council and also issuing receipts therefor; 

(9) incurring revenue expenditure within the limits sanc- 
tioned by the Council or the committees and incurring 
capital expenditure for the purpose of purchasing books for 
the library of the Institute within the limits sanctioned by 
the Council and/or the committees; 

(10) causing proper accounts to he maintained and 
delivering of accounts books, information etc., to the audi- 
tors appointed by the Council for the purpose of audit of 
the accounts of the Institute; 

(11) making all other payments as sanctioned by the 
Council, committees and/or the President; 

(12) paying salary and allowances to the members of the 
stafi, granting of leave etc. to them, and sanctioning their 
increments in accordance with the approved scales; 

(13) exercising disciplinary control over the staff, except 
dismissal in respect of which the sanction of the President 
shall be necessary; 

(14) admitting candidates to the examinations held under 
these Regulations and making all necessary arrangements 
for the conduct of the examinations; 

(15) refunding or transferring fees received under these 
Regulations for the examinations, enrolment, issue of certi- 
ficates of practice and allied matters; 

(16) registering and noting suspension/cancellation/ 
termination of articles and/or audit service and permitting 
articled cleiks of deceased members and those who had 
ceased to be in practice to be taken as extra articled clerks; 

(17) permitting articled and/or audit clerks to engage in 
other occupation as approved by the Council and/or the 
committees and granting reduction in the period of articled 
and/or audit service in accordance with these Regulations; 

(18) condoning any break in the service of articled and 
audit clerks up to a maximum period of six months in his 
discretion; 

(19) signing and issuing all notifications on behalf of the 
Council; 

(20) signing vakalat namas on behalf of the Council, ap- 
pointing, solicitors or advocates on behalf of the Council, 
and filing papers in Courts, etc., on behalf of the Council, 
subject to the approval of the President; 

(21) calling such further information and particulars as 
he considers necessary in furtherance of the above duties; 
and 

(22) performing such other duties and functions as are 
incidental and ancillary to and may be required for the per- 
formance of the above duties and exercising such other 
powers as may be delegated by the Council and/or com- 
mittees or the President from time to time. 


178. Higher training for members — The Council may 
impart or arrange to impair practical and/or theoretical 
training and hold examinations in such subjects as it may 
consider useful for members and may award certificates or 
diplomas in connection therewith in accordance with the 
rules contained in Schedule ‘C’. 

179. Power to remove difficulties — (1) If any difficulty* 
arises in giving effect to the provisions of these Regulations, 
the Council may, by gcneial or special ordei, do anything 
not inconsistent with these provisions which appear to it 
to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing 
the difficulty. 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the general^ 
of the foregoing power, any such order may provide for 
continuing in force such provisions of the Chattered Ac- 
countants Regulations, 1949, as were applicable to persons l 
governed by the Auditor’s Certificates Rules, 1932 or such 
other provisions as conferred any right or privilege or as 
imposed any obligation or liability. 

180. Repeal of Chartered Accountants Regulation 
1919- — (1) The Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, are 
hereby repealed. 

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Chartered Ac- 
countants Regulations, 1949 (hereinafter referred to as the 
lepealed Regulations) and without prejudice to the gene- 
tdlily of the piovisions contained in sub-regulation (3) of 
regulation 2, it is heiehy declared as follows: — 

Any appointment, notification, order, election, exarnik, 
nation, lesult of an examination, service as an arti- 
cled or audit clerk, made, issued, held, dcclaied, 
rendered or any othei thing done under the repeal- 
ed Regulations shall, so far as it is not inconsistent 
with the piovisions of these Regulations, be deem- 
ed to have been made, issued, held, declared, 
rendered or done under the provisions of these 
Regulations unless and until it is superseded 1 
action taken in accordance with these Regulations. 

SCHEDULE 'A' 

Form “1” 

Register of Members of the Institute of Chartered Accoun- 
tants of India 

]. Enrolment No. 

2. R.A. Enrolment No. 

3. Name in full. 

4. Date of birth. 

5. Domicile. 

6. Residential addiess. 

7. Professional address. 

8. Date of entry in the Register. 

9. Qualifications. 

]0. Whether holding a certificate of practice. 

11. Date of admission as Fellow. 

12. Whether practising independently, in pattnership or 
employed in a firm of Chartered Accountants in prac- 
tice. 

13. Whether holding a salaried employment, if not in prac- 
tice. 

14. Change of address, if any. 

15. Remarks. 

Form "2" 

THE INSTITUTE Ob CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Form of application for entry in the Register 

To 

The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. 

Sir, 

I beg to apply that my name be entered in the Register. 

I hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the disabili- 



Pabt III— 8eo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


329 


ties stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 

] 949 The requited paiticulars are furnished below: — 

I. Name in lull (block letters) 

2 Father’s name 

3 Date of both 

4 Nationality. 

5. Educational qualifications J 

6 (a) The year and month in which the applicant passed 

the Examination which qualifies him for lus name 
being entered in the Registei, and 

(b) Name of the Examination and Roll No if any at 
that Examination 

7 (a) The name of the Chartered Accountant(s) in prac- 

tice or the firm of Chaitcrcd Accountants in prac 
tice under whom the applicant served as an articl 
ed cletk oi as an audit clerk 

(b) The period of service as an articled clerk and/oi 
audit clerk together with the dates of commence- 
ment and termination. 

(c) Articles Deed Registration No (s) 

(d) Audit Set vice Registration No. (s) 

(e) Details of such other practical training which has 
been recognised by the Council as equivalent to 
piactical training undet the Gharteied Accountants 
Regulations 

8 Period of tesidence in India 

9 If not an Indian citizen, please stale whethei ceitificate 
of Indian Domicile has been obtained 

10. Permanent residential address 

II. Professional address 

12. Present residential addiess 

13 Occupation in full 

14 Place or places of business in India J 

15 Whether the applicant is in charge of the place oi 
places mentioned at 14 If not, the namc(s) and 
membership number(s) of the member(s) of the Insti- 
tute who is faie) in charge of that (those) place(s) and 
his (their) addtess(es) 

16 If the applicant is a paid assistant to a Charteted Ac- 
countant in pi at tire or in a firm of such Chartered Ac- 
countants, name of the Chaiteied Accountant in prac 
tice or the linn and from which date. 

17 If the applicant holds a salaried employment other than 
that coveted by 10 above, full particular thereof 

18 Whether the applicant intends to practise as a Charter- 

ed Accountant under the Chartered Accountant Act, 
1949 

19. Whether the applicant intends to continue the engage 
ment at 16 or 17 above in addition to piactice 

20. Whether the applicant is engaged in any other business 
or occupation not covered by 16 or 17 above If so, full 
particulars thereof 

21 Whether the applicant was at any time debarred from 
practising as an accountant and if so, the reason and 
period of suspension 

2. I hereby undeitake that if my name is entered in the 
Register, I shall be bound by the provisions of the Chaitei- 
ed Accountants Act, 1949 and the Regulations framed 
thereunder or that may hereafter from time to time be made 
pursuant to the said Act 

3 (i) I also send herewith a sum of Rs being 

my entrance fee of Rs and annual membership 

fee Rs. tor the year 

(n) A sum of Rs 28 is also forwarded for the annual 
Certificate of Tractive for the period ending 30th June 

(ui) A sum of Rs 6 is also forwarded as annual substrip 
tion for the benefit of the Regional Council 
Place ' 

Date: 

Yours faithfully, 
Signature 


* Applicants are requested to produce evidence of their 
age. 

fOnginul diplomas, certificates and/or other documents, 
or attested copies theieof, in support of the qualifications 
claimed must be sent with the application 

JIf theie be more than one place of business, principal 
place of business may also be indicated. 


Form “3” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHAR TERED ACCOUN FAN ES 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

torm of application for restoring the name in the Register 
To 

The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. 

Sir, 

1 beg to apply for restoration of my name in the Register 

I also hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the 
disabilities stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants 
Act, 1949 The required paiticulars are furnished bekuv: — 

1. Name in full (in block letters) 

2 lather’s name. 

3 Date of birth 

4 Nationality. 

5 Educational Qualifications f 

6 Period of residence in India 

7 It not an Indian citizen, please state whethei certificate 
of Indian Domicile has been obtained 

8 Permanent residential address 

9 Professional address 

10 Present residential address 

I I Membership Number or R A Enrolment Number prior 
to removal 

12 Reasons for and dale of removal J 
1J Occupation in full. 

14 Place or places of business in India § 

15. Whether the applicant is in charge of the place or place 
mentioned at 1 1 If not, the name(s) and membership 
liumber(s) of the membcr(s) of the Institute who f 
(arc) in charge of that (those) place(s) and his (their 
, addiess(es) 

16 If the applicant is a paid assistant under a Charterer 
Accountant in practice ot in a firm of such Charterer 
Accountants, name of the Chartered Accountant ir 
practice or the firm and from which date 

17 If the applicant holds a salaried employment other thai 
that covered hy 10 above, full particulars thereof 

18 Whether the applicant intends to practise as a Charter 
ed Accountant undei the Chartered Accountants Act 
1949 

19 Whether the applicant intends to continue the engage 
ment at 16 or 17 above in addition to practice 

20 Whethei the applicant is engaged in any other busincs 
or occupation not covered bv 16 or 17 above; if so, ful 
particulars thereof 

21 Whether the applicant was at anv time debarred fron 
practising as an accountant and if so, the reason anc 
period of suspension. 

2 I hereby undertake that if my name is lestoied on thi 
Register and if admitted as a member of the Institute, 
will he bound by the piovisions of the Chartered Account 
ants Act, 1949, and the Regulations framed thereunder o 
that may heieafter from tunc to time be made pursuant t< 
the said Act 

3 (i) I also send herewith a sum of Rs . beun 

the (a) balance of enlrance fee ot Rs , (b) thi 

an ears on account of the annual fee of Rs , (c) th 

restoiation fee of Rs 25 and (d) the annual membership fe 
of Rs for the year 

(u) A sum of Rs 28 is also forwarded for the annua 
Certificate of Practice. 


330 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Part III — Seo.4 


(iii) A sum of Rs. (> is also forwarded for the annual 
subscription to the Regional Council. 

Place : 

Date: 

Yours faithfully, 
Signature 

•Applicants are requested to produce evidence of their 
age. 

-[•Original diplomas. Certificates and/or other documents 
or attested copies thereof, in support of the qualifications 
claimed must he sent with the application, 

^Original Notification removing the name of the member 
should be sent. 

§If there be more than one place of business, principal 
place of business may also be indicated. 


Form “4" 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Certificate of Membership 

This is to certify that — of was admit- 
ted as an Associate of the Institute on the day of 

19 

Given by the Council under the Common Seal of the 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, this 

day of 19 

(Seal) President 

Secretary 


Form "5” 

THE INSTITU TE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Form of application for entry in the Register as Fellow of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 

To 

The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India, New Delhi. 

Sir, 

I beg to apply that my name be entered in the Register 
as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India. I hereby declare that I am not subject to any of the 
disabilities stated in section 8 of the Chartered Accountants 
Act, 1949. I have been in continuous practice in India 
since 

Required particulars are as follows : — 

(1) Name: 

(2) Number and Date of 

admission as Associate: 

(3) Professional address: 

(4) # (A) Whether practising independently or as a partner 

of a firm of practising members of the Institute, 
and if so, state the period for which acting as such : 

or 

"■(B) (i) Clause/s of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 5 
under which the admission is sought: 

(ii) Name and address of the employer /organisation: 

(iii) Particulars of experience: 

(a) Designation 

[If in Government service, the Glass, Grade, 
Rank and other details may be given]. 

(b) Detailed nature of duties. 

(c) Period. 

(d) Paid-up capital for each of the years. 

(e) Turn -over for each of the years. 


(f) Population under the jurisdiction of the 
local authority for each of the years. 

(g) Period during which the applicant may 
have been in practice as a Chartered Ac- 
countant. 

(h) Original certificate, balance sheets and/or 
other documents or attested copies thereof, 
in support of the above experience or parti- 
culars, are enclosed, 

2. (i) I send herewith Rs. 200 being my entrance fee as 
a Fellow of the Institute. 

(ii) A sum of Rs. 55 is also forwarded herewith being the 
balance of the annual membership fee, due as a Fellow of 
the Institute. 

Yours faithfully. 

Place : 

Date: 

•Delete which is not applicable. 


Form “6” 

Membership No 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Certificate of Membership 

This is to certify that of 

was admitted as a Fellow of the 

Institute on the day of 

19 . 

Given by the Council under the Common Seal of the 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, this 

day of 19 . 

(Seal) President 

Secretary 


Form “7” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Form of application for the issue of a Certificate of Practice 
To 

The Secretary to the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. 

Sir, 

have already sent* 

I — a cheque /draft No 

am enclosing* 

dated for Rs towards the fee for 

the Certificate of Practice for the period/year ending 30th 
June, which may be issued to me at an early date. 

f2. I declare that I am not engaged in any other business 
or occupation besides the profession of accountancy. If and 
when I intend to be so engaged, I shall obtain the prior 
permission of the Council. 

f3- I am engaged in other occupation as 

and propose to continue to be so 

engaged in addition to the practice of accountancy for which 
the permission has already been obtained/ applied for vide 

their/my letter No dated 

4. As and when I cease to be in practice I shall duly in- 
form the Council as required by the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations, 1963, 

f5. I hold the Ccntificatc of Practice as Associate/Fellow 
for the period ending 30th June 

6. I declare that I am National. 

Place : 

Date : 

Yours faithfully, 
Signature, 

Membership Number. 

•Delete words not applicable. 

-[Delete the para not applicable. 



!Pabt III— $eo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


331 


Form “8" 

Membership No 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Certificate of Practice 


This is to certify that of 

C A 

is entitled to practise as a Chartered Accountant. 

-C-A. 

This Certificate is valid from the day of 


19 to the 30th day of June 19 

inclusive, and thereafter subject to renewal Irom time to 
time. 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 


(Seal) 


President 


Form “11” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Form of nomination of a candidate for election to the 
Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India 

We, the undersigned Members of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India, being qualified to vote in 
the election of members to the Council of the Institute by 

the constituency, 

do hereby nominate who is Fellow of the Institute 

belonging to that constituency, as a candidate for the elec- 
tion to be held in the year 19 

1. Signature of proposer 
Enrolment No. 

Address 

2. Signature of seconder 
Enrolment No. 

Address 


Sen et ary 


Form "9” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Membership No 

Received with thanks from Shri 

the sum of Rupees only on account of the an- 

nual membership fee, annual certificate fee and annual 
Regional Council fee, for the year 19 

The Certificate of Practice granted to him on the day 

of 19 is hereby renewed up to and inclusive 

of 80th of June 19 

By the authority of the Council, 

Place : 

Date: 

Secretary 


Form ”10” 


!»■•••; being a Fellow of the Institute 

belonging to the constituency, agree to stand 


for the election by the constituency to be helcf in the year 
19 . 

I send herewith the fee of Rs. 200 to the Council by a 

Demand Draft on 

Signature of candidate. 

Address. 

Dated this day of 


SCH. A(10) 
Form “12” 


Form of Complaint 

BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE INSTITUTE OF 
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 

Section 21 


Between 

And 


Petitioner 

Respondent 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

particulars of Offices arid Firms 

1. Name of Firm/Trade nqme of Chartered Accountant in 
practice. 

2. Name(s) of the Proprietor /Partners of the firm with 
his /their membership number(s). 

3. # Date on which the partnership was entered into. 

4. Date on which the firm was started. 

5. Address of the Head Office of the firm /Chartered Ac- 
countant in practice. 

6. # Addresses of the Branch Offices of the firm /Chartered 
Accountant in practice, if any. 

7. *The dates on which the branch offices were opened, 

8. Name of the member with the membership number 
who is in charge of each of the offices, i.e., head office 
and branch offices. 

9. Whether any of the members mentioned in 8 above are 
incharge of any other office of a Chartered Accountant 
in practice or a (inn of such Chartered Accountants 
and whether any of them are engaged in a full-time 
or part-time occupation elsewhere. If so, full particulars 
may be given. 

10. *Name(s) of the Member(s) of the Institute with 
membership number(s) who is/are working as paid 
assistant(s) in the firm/under the Chartered Accountant 
in practice and date of joining of each member. 

Place : 

Date; 

Signature 

of the Proprietor I Partner of the 
firm with the membership number 
♦Delete, if inapplicable. 


Petitioner’s address: 

Respondent’s address : 

Particulars of complaint in 

paragraphs consecutively numbered. 

Particulars of evidence oral and 

documentary if any, to substantiate 
the complaint. 

Signature 

VERIFICATION 

I, the petitioner do here- 

by declare that what is stated above is true to the best of 
my information and belief. 

Verified today the day of 

19 at 

Signature 

Form “13” 

Roll No 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 
(Emblem) 

Preliminary Examination Certificate 

This is to certify that of 

has passed ( ) the Preliminary Examination 

held by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in 
the month of 19 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 

(Seal) 

Secretary 



332 THE! GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 £ Part lit— Stoo. 4 


SCH. A(1 1) 

Form "14” 

Roll No 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Intermediate Examination Certificate 

This is to certify that of 

has passed ( ) the Intermediate Examination 

held by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
in the month of 19 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 


changes that may occur in the information furnished above, 
during the period of my training for the purposes of the 
Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1963. 

Place : 

Date: 

Signature of the 
Articled or Audit Clerk 

Applicants are required to produce evidence of their 
age. 

■(■Original diplomas, certificates and/or documents or at- 
tested copies thereof, in support of the qualifications claim- 
ed must be sent with the application. 

Form “17’' 


(Seal) 


Secretary 


Form “15” 

Roll No 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Final Examination Certificate 

This is to certify that of 

has passed the Final Examination held by the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India in the month of 

19 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 

Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 


(Seal) 


Secretary 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(For use when the Articled Clerk is of full age) 

Articles of apprenticeship made the day of 

one thousand nine hundred and 

between of (hereinafter called the 

Employer) of the first part, *[ , the Chartered 

Accountant in practice/partner of Messrs 

Chartered Accountants in practice, employing the Em- 
ployer of the first part (hereinafter called the second Em- 
ployer) of the second part] and (hereinafter 

called the Articled Clerk) of the second / *third part. 

Witness as follows, that is to say: — 

1. In consideration of the covenants by the Articled Clerk 

hereafter contained -Kand of the premium of Rs 

paid by the Articled Clerk (the receipt whereof the Employer 
doth hereby acknowledge)] the Employer agrees to take the 

Articled Clerk as his Articled Clerk for the term of 

years from the day of 

one thousand nine hundred and 


Form “16” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Statement of particulars to be submitted for registration as 
an articled or audit clerk 

1. Name of clerk in full (in capital letters). 

2. Father’s name. 

3. Residential address. 

4. Nationality. 

5. *Date of birth. 

6. j-Educational Qualifications with the dates of passing 
the Examination. 

7. (i) Enrolment No. as student member of the Coaching 

Organisation. 

(ii) In case not yet enrolled, state the date of applica- 
tion made to the Director of Studies, Coaching 
Board for the purpose. 

8. Name and address of the employer under whom serv- 
ing. 

9. Name and address of the previous employer(s) and the 
period of service under him or them either as an arti- 
cled clerk or as audit clerk or as both, /Dates of com- 
mencement and termination to be given). 

10. Articles or Audit Service Registration No., if any. 

11. Date of commencement of articles or audit service. 

12. (a) Whether studying for any courses and if so give 

full particulars as to whether applied for Council's 
permission. 

(b) In case permission has already been obtained, 
quote letter No. and date wherein the Council’s 
permission was conveyed. 

13. (a) Whether engaged in any other occupation or busi- 

ness and if so give full particulars. 

(b) If permission has already been granted, quote the 
letter No. and date. 

I declare that the particulars given above are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and I under- 
take to intimate to the Council within thirty days, any 


[*1A. The second Employer of the second part agrees to 
permit the Employer of the first part to train the Articled 
Clerk in his office /firm.] 

2. The Articled Clerk of his own free will binds him- 

self Articled Clerk to the Employer to serve him for and 
during and unto the full end and! term of years. 

3. The Articled Clerk covenants with the Employer as 
follows : — 

(a) That he will at all times during the said term 
diligently and faithfully serve the Employer as 
his Articled Clerk in the practice t>f profession of 
Accountancy. 

(b) That he will not at any time during the said term 
destroy, cancel, obliterate, spoil, embezzle, spend, 
make away with or take copies of books, papers, 
plans, documents, moneys, stamps or chattels of 
the Employer, his personal representatives or 
assigns or of his partner or partners or of any of 
his clients or employers which shall be deposited 
in his hands or which shall come to his care, 
custody or possession or allow any of the said 
goods to be so treated by others if he can by the 
exercise of reasonable care prevent it. 

(c) That he will at all times keep the secrets of the 
Employer and his partner or partners and of his 
and their clients and employers and will not 
divulge the names and affairs of such clients and 
employers. 

(d) That he will readily and cheerfully obey and 
execute the lawful and reasonable commands of 
the Employer and will not depart or absent him- 
self from the service or employ of the Employer 
at any time during the said term without his con- 
sent or that of his partners first obtained, but will 
at all times during the said term conduct himself 
with all due diligence, honesty and propriety. 

(e) That he will at all times well and faithfully serve 
the Employer as an Articled Clerk ought to do in 
all things whatsoever. 

(f) That he will make good and fully indemnify the 
Employer for any loss or damage suffered or 
sustained by him by the Articled Clerk’s misbeha- 
viour or improper conduct. 



Past III — Seo. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


333 


4. The Employer covenants with the Articled Clerk as 
follows : - — 

(a) That he will by the best ways and means in his 
power and to the utmost of his skill and knowledge 
instruct or cause to be instructed the Articled 
Clerk and afford him such reasonable opportuni- 
ties and work as may be required to enable him 
to acquire the art, science and knowledge of Ac- 
countancy. 

(b) That his professional practice *[or that of his em- 
ployer^)] is his *[or their] main occupation and 
is suitable for the purpose of enabling him to 
carry out the obligations referred to in (a) above, 

(c) That he will at the expiration of the said term use 
his best means and endeavours at the request, cost 
and charges of the Articled Clerk to cause the 
Articled Clerk to be admitted as a member of the 
Institute : Provided always that the Articled Clerk 
shall have well and faithfully served his intended 
clerkship and shall have passed the required exa- 
minations and in all respects properly qualified 
himself to be admitted as such. 


the Guardian) of the second/ *third part, guardian of 

(hereinafter called the Articled Cleik) of the 

third /*fourth part. 

Witness as follows, that is to say: — 

1. In consideration of the covenants by the Articled 
Clerk and Guardian respectively hen .naftcr contained 

•(•[and of the premium of Rs paid by or on 

behalf of the Articled Clerk (the receipt whereof the Em- 
ployer doth hereby acknowledge)] the Employer agrees to 
take the Articled Clerk as his Articled Clerk for the term 

of years from the day of 

one thousand nine hundred and 

*[1A. The second Employer of the second part agrees to 
permit the Employer of the first part to train the Articled 
Clerk in his office-firm.] 

2. The Articled Clerk of his own free will and with the 

consent of the Guardian binds himself Articled Clerk to 
the Employer to serve him for and during and unto the full 
end and term of years. 

3. The Articled Clerk covenants with the Employer as 
follows : — 


(d)(i) That if the Employer shall die during the said 
term, his legal representative f [shall return the 
premium to the extent not already refunded to 
the Articled Clerk and] shall grant to the Articled 
Clerk a certificate of service in the appropriate 
Form for the expired period of the articles. 

(ii) That if the Employer shall cease to practise as an 
accountant or shall in any way become incapable 
of continuing the intended employment of the 
Articled Clerk during the said term, he shall, 
f[at the option of the Articled Clerk, either return 
the premium to the extent not already refunded, 
or without any further expense to the Articled 
Clerk,] make the necessary arrangements as far 
as practicable for the completion of the residue 
of the term as Articled Clerk with some other 
member entitled to train Articled Clerks and grant 
the Articled Clerk, the certificate of service in the 
appropriate Form for the expired period of 
articles. 

t[( e ) That he agrees to refund within the period stipu- 
lated under the Regulations the entire premium 
received from or on behalf of the Articled Clerk 
in such instalment as he might deem fit subject 
to satisfactory service and good conduct of the 
Articled Clerk.] 

5. These articles are subject to the Chartered Accoun- 
tants Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 

In witness whereof the .parties have hereunto set their 
hands and seals the day and year first above written. 

Signed, Scaled and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

*To be deleted where the employer is not employed by 
a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such 
Chartered Accountants. 

■(■To be deleted where no premium is charged. 


Form "IS'’ 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(For use where the Articled Clerk is a Minor) 

Articles of Apprenticeship made the day of 

thousand nine hundred and 

e tween. .... of (hereinafter called the 

Employer) of the first part, *[ the Chartered Ac- 
countant in practice /partner of Messrs 

Chartered Accountants in practice, employing the Em- 
ployer of tile first part (hereinafter called the second Em- 
ployer) of the second part], (hereinafter called 


(a) That he will at all limes during the said term 
diligently and faithfully serve the Employer as 
his Articled Clerk in the practice of profession of 
Accountancy. 

(b) That he will nol at any time during the said term 
destroy, cancel, obliterate, spoil, embezzle, spend, 
make away with or take copies of books, papers, 
plans, documents, moneys, stamps or chattels of 
the Employer, his personal representatives or 
assigns or of his partner or partners or any of his 
clients or employers which shall be deposited in 
his hands or which shall come to his care, custody 
or possession or allow any of the said goods to 
be so treated by others if he can by the exercise 
of reasonable care pi event it. 

(c) That he will at all times keep the secrets of the 
Employer and bis partner or partners and of his 
and their clients and employers and will not 
divulge Lhe names and affairs of such clients and 
employers. 

(d) That he will readily and cheei fully obey and 
execute the lawful and reasonable commands of 
the Employer and will not depart or absent him- 
self from the service or employ of the Employer 
at any time during the said term without his con- 
sent or that of his partners first obtained, but 
will at all times during the said term conduct 
himself with all the diligence, honesty and pro- 
priety. 

(e) That he will at all times well and faithfully serve 

the Employer as an Articled Clerk ought to do in 
all things whatsoever. 

(f) ' That he will make good and fully indemnify the 

Employer for any loss or damage suffered or sus- 
tained by him by the Articled Clerk’s misbeha- 
viour or improper conduct. 

4. The Guardian covenants with the Employer as fol- 
lows : — 

That he will indemnify the Employer or his partner 
or partners and all or any oftthem in case the 
Articled Clerk shall act contraryTo the last-men- 
tioned covenant and the Employer or his partners 
shall suffer thereby any loss, damage or prejudice. 

5. The Employer covenants with the Articled Clerk and 
the Guardian as follows: — 

(a) That he will by the best ways and means in his 
power and to the utmost of his skill and know- 
ledge instruct or cause to be instructed the Articl- 
ed Clerk and afford him such reasonable op- 
portunities and work as may be required to en- 
able him to acquire the art, science and knowledge 
of Accountancy. 

(b) That his professional practice *[or that of the 
second employer] is his *[or thcir]main occupa- 
tion and is suitable for the purpose of enabling 
him to carry out the obligations referred to in (a" 1 
above. 



334 


the gazette of umu, June 22, idS 3 


[ Part Itt — flao. 4 


(c) That he will at the expiration of the said term 
use his best means and endeavours at the request, 
cost and charges of the Articled Clerk anti the 
Guardian or either of them to cause the Articled 
Clerk to be admitted as a member of the Insti- 
tute : Provided always that the Articled Clerk 
shall have well and faithfully served his intended 
clerkship and shall have passed the required exa- 
minations and in all respects properly qualified 
himself to be admitted as such. 

(d) (i) That if the Employer shall die during the said 

term his legal representative f[shall return the 
premium to the extent not already refunded to 
the Articled Clerk and] shall grant to the Articled 
Clerk a certificate of service in the appropriate 
Form for the expired period of the articles. 

(ii) That if the Employer shall cease to practise as an 
accountant or shall in any way become incapable 
of continuing the intended employment of the 
Articled Clerk during the said term he shall 
f[at the option of the Articled Clerk either return 
the premium to the extent not already refunded 
or without any further expense to the Articled 
Clerk] make necessary' arrangements as far as 
practicable for the completion of the residue of 
the term as Articled Clerk with some other mem- 
ber entitled to train Articled Clerks and grant the 
Articled Clerk the certificate of service in the ap- 
propriate Form for the expired period of articles. 

■(■[(e) That he agrees to refund within the period 
stipulated under the Regulations, the entire pre- 
mium received from or on behalf of the Articled 
Clerk in such instalments as he might deem fit 
subject to satisfactory service and good conduct of 
the Articled Clerk.] 

6. These articles are subject to the Chartered Accoun 
tants Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 

In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 
hands and seals the day and year first above written. 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

•To be deleted where the Employer is not employed by 
a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such 
Chartered Accountants. 

j-To be deleted where no premium is charged. 


Form " 19 " 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

( For use where Articles are assigned) 

ASSIGNMENT OF ARTICLES made the .. 

day of one thousand nine hundred 

and between of 

(hereinafter called “the Employer") of the first part, 

(hereinafter called "the Articled 

Clerk") of the second part and of 

carrying on the business of 

at (herein- 
after called “the New Employer") of the third part. 

Whereas by Articles of Apprenticeship dated 

and made between the Employer of the first part and the 
Articled Clerk of the second part, the Articled Clerk was 
bound apprentice to the Employer in the practice of pro- 
fession of Accountancy for a term of years from 

the day of 

19 

And whereas it has been agreed that the Articled Clerk 
shall serve the unexpired residue of the said term with the 
New Employer, being a member of the Institute entitled 
to train Articled Clerks, and the Employer has agreed to 
assign the said Articles of Apprenticeship to the New Em- 
ployer. 


•And whereas the Employer has paid to the New Em- 
ployer Rs out of the premium received by the 

Employer under the said Articles. 


•And whereas the Articled Clerk has paid the New Em- 
ployer the sum of Rs by way of further pre 

mium. 


Now this deed of assignment witnesseth as follows:- — 

L I'he Employer hereby assigns the said Articles of Ap 

prenticeship from the day of 19 

and all his interest therein and the benefit of all cove- 
nants therein contained to the New Employer to hold the 
same for all the residue unexpired of the said term ol 
years. 

2. The New Employer covenants with the Employer, 
and the Articled Clerk and with each of them separately: — 

(a) That he will take the Articled Clerk as his Articl- 
ed Clerk for the unexpired residue of the said term 
in order that he may complete his studies and ac 
quire the art, science and knowledge of Ac- 
countancy. 

(b) That he will observe and perform all the cove- 
nants in the said Articles contained and on the 
part of the Employer to be observed and perform- 
ed in like manner in all respects as if the New 
Employer were therein named instead of the Em- 
ployer and will keep the Employer indemnified 
from the same and from all actions, claims or de- 
mands in respect thereof. 

(c) That his professional practice is his main occupa- 
tion and is suitable for the purpose of enabling 
him to carry out the obligations referred to in 
(a) and (b) above. 

3. The Articled Clerk covenants with the New Em- 
ployer — 

(a) That the Articled Clerk shall diligently and faith- 
fully serve the New Employer as his apprentice 
in his profession of Accountancy for all the residue 
now unexpired of the said term. 

(b) That he will observe and perform all the cove- 
nants in the said Article's contained and on his 
part to be performed in like manner in all respects 
as if the New Employer were therein named in- 
stead of the Employer. 

4. This Deed of Assignment is subject to the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations as may be in force from time to 
time. 


In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 
respective hands the day and year first above written. 


Executed by 
in the presence of 


in the presence of 

Executed by 
in the presence of 

Executed by 


} 

} 

} 


“The Employer" of the First Part. 

"The Articled Clerk" of the Second 
Part. 

“The New Employer" of the Third 
Part. 


•To be deleted where no premium is charged. 


Form " 20 " 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(For use where the Articles are assigned and xvhere the 
Articled Clerk is a minor ) 

ASSIGNMENT OF ARTICLES made the 

day of one thousand nine hundred and 

between of (here- 
inafter called "the Employer") of the first part, 

of (hereinafter called guardian of the Articl- 
ed Clerk) of the second part and of 

carrying on the business of 

at (hereinafter called 

"the New Employer’ of the third part. 



Part III — Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE Of TNDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


335 


Whereas by Articles of Apprenticeship, dated 

and made between the Employer of the first part, the 
Guardian of the second pari, ihe Auii led Clerk was bound 
apprentice to the Employer in the practice of profession of 

Accountancy for a term of years from the 

day of 19 

And whereas it has been agreed that the Articled Clerk 
shall serve the unexpired residue of the said term with the 
New Employer being a member of the. Institute entitled 
to train Articled Clerks and the Employer has agreed, with 
the consent of the Guardian, to assign the said Articles of 
Apprenticeship to the New Employer. 

"And whereas the Employer has paid to the New' Em- 
ployer Rs out of the premium received by the 

employer under the said Articles. 

*And whereas the Articled Clerk has paid the New Em- 
ployer the sum of Rs by way of further pre- 

mium. 

Now this deed of assignment witnesseth as follows: 

1. The Employer hereby assigns the said Articles of Ap- 
prenticeship from the day of 19 and all 

his interest therein and the benefit of all covenants therein 
contained to the New Employer to hold the same for all 
the residue unexpired of the said term of years. 

2. The New Employer covenants with the Employer and 
the Guardian and with each of them separately — - 

(a) That he will take the Articled Clerk as his Articled 
Clerk for the unexpired residue of the said term 
in order that he may complete his studies and 
acquire the art, science and knowledge of Ac- 
countancy. 

(b) That he will observe and perform all the cove- 
nants in the said Articles contained and on the 
part of the Employer to be observed and perform- 
ed in like manner in all respects as if the New 
Employer were therein named instead of the Em- 
ployer and will keep the Employer indemnified 
from the same and from all actions, claims or 
demands in respect thereof. 

(c) That his professional practice is his main occupa- 
tion and is suitable for the purpose of enabling 
him to carry out the obligations referred to in 
(a) and (b) above. 


Form "21” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

( Form of Supplementary Deed of Articles ) 

Articles of apprenticeship made the day 

of one thousand nine hundred and 

between of (hereinafter called the 

Employer) of the first part and *[ the 

Chartered Accountant in practice/partner of Messrs 

Chartered Accountants in practice, 

employing the Employer of the first part (hereinafter called 

the second Employer) of the second part], 

(hereinafter called the Articled Clerk) of the second/* third 
part. SUPPLEMENTAL to the Articles of Apprenticeship 

made the between the abovementioned parties 

for 

Witness as follows, that is to say: 

1. Whereas the abovementioned Articles have expired 

on the and the Articled Clerk has taken 

more leave of absence during the said period than is per- 
missible under the Chartered Accountants Regulations, it 
is hereby agreed by the parties mentioned above that 


the Articled Clerk will serve for a 

further period of from 

to on the same terms and conditions as 


are contained in the original deed of articles, dated 

registered with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India, vide Registration Number dated the 


2. These articles are subject to the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations as may be in force from time to time. 

In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 
hands the day and year first above written. 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of 

[Signed, Sealed and Delivered 
by 

in the presence of] 

Note — Delete words not applicable. 

*To be deleted where the Employer is not employed by 
a Chartered Accountant in practice or by a firm of such 
Chartered Accountants. 


3. The Guardian covenants with the New Employer— 

(a) That the Articled Clerk shall diligently and faith- 
fully serve the New Employer as his apprentice 
in his profession of Accountancy for all the residue 
now unexpired of the said term. 

(b) That he will observe and perform all the cove- 
nants in the said Articles contained and on his 
part to be performed in like manner in all respects 
as if the New Employer were therein named 
instead of the Employer. 

4. This Deed of Assignment is subject to the Chartered 
Accountants Regulations, as may be in force from time to 
time. 

In witness whereof the parties have hereunto set their 
respective hands the day and year first above written. 

"the Employer” of the First Part. 

"the Guardian" of the Second 
Part. 

"the New Employer” of the Third 
Part. 

*To be deleted where no premium is charged. 


Executed by 
in the presen 

Executed by 
in the presen 

Executed by 
in the presen 


Form "22” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Certificate of Service under Articles 

I, of do hereby 

certify that served as an 

articled clerk under me in accordance with the Chartered 

Accountants Regulations, for a period of 

from to. .. , that his progress 

was satisfactory and that to the best of my knowledge he 
bears a good moral character. 

I further certify that during the above-mentioned period 
the articled clerk was given leave for days. 

*1 did not charge any premium. 

•I have refunded the entire premium of Rs 

to the articled clerk in instalment/s. 

The articles were duly registered with the Council of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, vide Registra- 
tion No of 

Place : 

Date : 

(Signature) 

Name in block letters 
Signature of articled clerk 

♦Strike out what is not applicable, 


336 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Pabt III — Site. 4 


Form "23” 

THE INSTI TUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTAN TS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Certificate of service under articles 
(To be issued by the legal representative) 

I, , legal representative of the late 

oE do hereby 

certify that to the best of my information 

served as an articled clerk under the late 

of..’ in accordance with the Chartered 

Accountants Regulations, for a period of 

years, months and days from 

to and that ac- 
cording to the information supplied to me his progress was 
satisfactory and he bears a good moral character. 

I further certify (hat according to the information sup- 
plied to me, during the above-mentioned period, the articl- 
ed clerk was given leave for days by late 


•No premium was received by the late 

♦ The entire premium of Rs. received by 

the late has been refunded to the 

articled clerk in instalment /s. 

The articles were duly registered with the Council of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, vide Registra- 
tion No of 19 


(Signature) 

^ ace: Name in block letters 

Date: Signature of articled clerk 

•Strike out what is not applicable,. 


Form "24" 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHT 

Certificate of Service under Articles 
(To be issued by a surviving partner) 

I, of who 

practised in partnership with the late 

do hereby certify that served as an 

articled clerk under the late in ac- 

cordance with the Chartered Accountants Regulations, for 

a period of from... to 

that his progress was satisfactory and that to the best of my 
information he bears a good moral character. 

I further certify that during the above-mentioned period, 
the articled clerk was given leave for days. 

•No premium was received by the late 

•To the best of my information, the entire premium of 

Rs received by the late has 

been refunded to the articled clerk in 

instalment/ s. 

The articles were duly registered with the Council of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, vide Re- 
gistration No of 19 

(Signature) 

Place: Signature of articled clerk 

Date: Name in block letters 


I also certify that his progress during the period was 
satisfactory and that he bears a good moral character. 

I further certify that during the above-mentioned period, 
he was given leave for days. 

(Signature) 

Member of the Institute of 
1’lace: Chartered Accountants /Cost, 

Date: and JVorks Accountants of 

India. 

Membership No. 

Signature of articled clerk. 


Form “26" 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Certificate of Audit Sendee 

I of do here- 
by certify that served as an audit 

clerk under me in accordance with the Chartered Ac- 
countants Regulations, for a period of 

from to , that his progress 

was satisfactory and that to the best of my knowledge he 
bears a good moral character. 

I further certify that during the above-mentioned period 
the audit clerk was given leave for days. 

The audit service was duly intimated to the Council of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, vide Re- 
gistration No of 19 


(Signature) 

Place: Name in block letters 

Date: Signature of audit clerk- 


Form "27" 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Certificate of Audit Service 
(To be issued by the legal representative) 

I, legal representative of the late 

do hereby certify that to the best 

of my information served as an 

audit clerk under the late in accord- 

ance with the Chartered Accountants Regulations, for a 

period of from to.. 

and that according to the information supplied to me his 
progress was satisfactory and he bears a good moral charac- 
ter. 

I further certify that according to the information sup- 
plied to me, during the above-mentioned period, the audit 
clerk was given leave for days by the late 


The audit service was duly registered with the Council 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, vide 
Registration No of 19 

(Signature) 

Date: Name in block letters 

Place: Signature of audit clerk 


•Strike out what is not applicable. 


Form ”25” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Certificate of service to be issued by the Head of the De- 
partment of the concern) 


I, employed as 

by Messrs do hereby certify that 

Shri worked under my 

supervision for a period of from 

to and during this period he was given 

training in .Department(s). 


Form "28” 

THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

Certificate of Audit Service 
(To be issued by a surviving partner) 

I, of who 

practised in partnership with the late 

do hereby certify that served as an audit 

clerk under the late in accordance with 

the Chartered Accountants Regulations, for a period ol 

from to , 

that his progress was satisfactory and that to the best of my 
knowledge he bears a good moral character. 



Part III — Sec. 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


337 


1 furthei ceitify that during the above mentioned period 
the audit cleik was given leave for days 

The audit strvict was duly legisreied vuth the f ouneil 
of the Institute of Chaiieied \erountants of India, vide 
Rcgistiation No of Id 

Da te ( Signature ) 

Place: Name in block letters 

Signature of audit clerk 


Form "29’ 


less he has passed the Intermediate ExaminaLon of a Um 
versity constituted hv law in India ot any othei Umveisity 
recognised by the Cential Government or an examination 
lecogmserl by the Central Government as equivalent thete 
to 

Providetl that a gtaduale oi a person who has passed the 
National Diploma in Commeice Examination held by the 
All India Council for Technical Education or any other 
person exempted undei the Chartered Accountants Regula 
tions, 1949, shall be exempted fiont passing the Preliminary 
Examination 


1HF INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OT INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Management Accountancy Course 

This is to certify that of 

has passed ( ) Pait I and 11 of the Manage 

ment Accountancy Examination held by the Institute of 
Charteied Accountants of India 

Given under the C ommon Seal of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 

(Seal) Secretary 


Form “30” 

THE INSTITUTE OT CHARTFRFD ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NFW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Management Accountancy Course 


2 Preliminary Examination admission fee — A candidate 
foi admission to the Preliminary Examination shall pay a 
fee of twenty seven rupees 

3 Papers and syllabus for Preliminary Examination — A 
candidate for the Preliminary Examination shall he exa- 
mined in the following subjects and shall ordinarily be 
declaied to hive passed the Examination if he obtains at 
one sitting a minimum of 40 pei cent of marks in each 
piper and 50 pet cent of the total maiks of all the papers 

Paper (i) — English — (One Paper — Three Hours — 100 

Marks) 

Precis Writing, Paraphrasing, Composition, Commercial 
Cm i espondence and Rcpoit Wilting (Questions to test the 
candidate’s knowledge of English and his power of expres 
sion will be asked The questions will be such as would test 
the candidate’s imagination, leasoned thought and argu- 
ment) 

Paper (n) — Elements of Book Keeping — ( One Paper — Three 
Hours — 100 Marks) 


Part I 


This is to certify that of 

has passed ( ) the Management Accountancy 

Examination (Pait I) held by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India in the month of 19 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 
Charteied Accountants of India, this day of 

19 


(Seal) Secretary 

NB — The candidate mentioned above has also passed/ 
has not so far passed Part II of the Management Accoun 
tancy Course 


Form "31” 

THE INSTITUTE Ol CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA, NEW DELHI 

(Emblem) 

Management Accountancy Course 

Part II 


This is to certify that of 

^ has completed the prescribed period of practical training 
r m Management Accountancy and has passed the written 
test and in the interview in respect of the same 

Given under the Common Seal of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India, this day of 

19 


(Seal) Secretary 

NB — The candidate mentioned above has also passed/ 
has not so far passed Part I of the Management Accountancy 
Course 

SCHEDULE B 
Prfi iminary Examination 

1 Admission to Preliminary Examination — -No candi 
date shall be admitted to the Preliminary Examination un- 


T heory and piactice of Double Entry Bookkeeping, 
Treatment of bad and doubtful debts, Depteciation, Me- 
thods of keeping and presenting Accounts, Manufacturing, 
Trading anci Piolit & Loss Accounts, Balance Sheets of 
Sole Tiadeis and Proprietary Concerns, and Btll Transac- 
tions 

Paper (m) — Elements of Economics and Modern Admi- 
nistration — (One Paper — Two Sections — Three Hours — - 

100 Marks) 

Section I — Elements of Economics — (50 Marks) — Defini- 
tion and Scope of Economics, Want, Wealth, Theories of 
Value and Price, Production, Theory of Production, Na- 
tional Income, Theories of Rent, Wages and Interest 
Theory of Money and Exchange, Banks, and Direct dnd 
Indirect Taxation 

Section II- — Modern Administration — (50 Marks) — The 
Indian Constitution relating to the powers, functions and 
duties of the Central Government, the Parliament, the 
StaLe Governments, the State Legislatures, Civil Services 
(Part XIV), Fundamental Rights (Part III of the Indian 
Constitution), and Directive Principles of State Policy 
(Part IV), Finance (Pait XII, Chapter I only), Trade, Com- 
meice and intercourse within the territory of India (Part 
XIII) 

Note — Questions on the reproductions of the provision 
of the constitution will only be asked It is not intended to 
test the knowledge ot the candidate on the interpretation 
and explanation of the various provisions 

Paper (w) — Commercial Arithmetic — ( One Paper — Three 
Hours— 100 Marks) 

Arthmetic, Rapid Calculations, i c , short methods of ad- 
dition and subtraction, division and multiplication; Aver 
age Due Date, Elementary principles and processes of 
Anthmetic, Vulgar and Decimal tractions, English and 
Metric System foi Measurement ot Length — Area — - 
Volume— Capacity -Weight — Time, Averages, Radio and 
Pioportion, Percentages, Simple and Compound Interest, 
Present Worth and Discount, Profit and Loss, Stocks and 
Shares; and Foreign Exchange 



338 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Part III — Seo. 4 


Paper (v)— -Economic and Commercial Geography- -(One 
Paper — Chree Hours -100 Marks ) 

The iiiHucnre oi physical environments and natural re- 
sources on economic development; Location; Configuration; 
Drainage; Climate; Soil and Vegetation; Agriculture; 
Subsistence Farming; Commercialized and Mixed Farming; 
Dairying; Horticulture; Sericulture; Plantation; Adjust- 
ment to animal life and forest vegetation; Extractive Indus- 
tries; Quarrying'; Mining; Manufacture; Markets; Trans- 
port and Trade Routes by Land; Sea and Air; Ports and 
their Hinterland; Staples of World Trade; Conditions of 
Production; Climate and Soil Requirements; Geographical 
Products; Methods of Production; Mineral Products; Ores 
and Extraction of Minerals; Use of Minerals; and Manu- 
facture. 

Man and his environments; Population and Population 
Movements; Distribution of Population in different regions: 
and Density of Population, (The above topics to be studied 
with general reference for comparative purposes to the 
main geographical regions of the world and with parixnlar 
reference to India and Pakistan). 

The above particulars are intended as a general guide to 
questions which may be asked in each paper. 

Intermediate Examination 

4. Admission to Intermediate Examination — No candi- 
date shall be admitted to the Intermediate Examination 
unless he — 

(i) was admitted to the First Examination held under 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, and has serv- 
ed or is serving as an articled clerk or as an audit clerk, or 

(ii) is a graduate or has passed the National Diploma in 
Commerce Examination held by the All India Council for 
T echnical Education or has passed the Preliminary Exami- 
nation held under these Regulations/or the Chartered Ac- 
countants Regulations, 1949, and has completed such period 
of service either as an articled clerk or as an audit clerk 
or partly as an articled clerk and partly as an audit clerk, 
as is required for admission as a member, or is serving the 
last thirty months of articled service or last sixty months of 
audit service, as the case may be, on the 1st day of May- 
or 1st day of November of each year for eligibility to the 
Examination that may be held in May or November, respec- 
tively : 

Provided that a candidate who had entered into articles 
or audit service for the first time on or after 1st July 1956, 
shall not be admitted to the Examination unless he pro- 
duces a certificate from the Director of Studies or the head 
of the coaching organisation, by whatever name designated, 
set up under the aegis of the Council, to the effect that he 
has undergone a course of postal tuition satisfactorily for 
a period of one year. 

Explanation — For the purpose of computing the period 
of practical training, six months' service as an articled clerk 
shall be reckoned as one year’s service as an audit clerk 
or vice versa, fractions of less than six months in the case 
of articled service and one year in the case of audit service, 
being ignored. 

5. Intermediate Examination Admission fee — A candi- 
date for admission to the Intermediate Examination shall 
pay a fee of fifty-two rupees. 

6. Papers and syllabus for the Intermediate Examina- 
tion— A candidate for the Intermediate Examination shall 
be examined in the following subjects and shall ordinarily 
be declared to have passed the Examination if he obtains 
at one sitting a minimum of 40 per cent of marks in each 
paper and 50 per cent of total marks of all the pepers: 

Paper (?) — Accounting— (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

The Theory and Practice of Single and Double Entry- 
Book-keeping and Accounts; Principal and Subsidiary 
Books of Accounts; Methods of keeping and presenting ac- 
counts; the terms used in book-keeping and accounting 
Bill Transactions; Accounts; Current and Average Due 
Date; Self Balancing Ledgers; Goods on sale or return; 
Hire-purchase and Instalment System; Departmental and 
Branch Accounts (Excluding foreign branches); Consign- 
ment and Joint Ventures; Trial Balance; Receipts and 


Payments and Income and Expenditure Accounts; Account- 
ing of Educational, Charitable and other institutions, manu 
factoring, Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts and 
Balance Sheets, (At least one question will be asked on 
theory). 

Paper (ii) — -Accounting— (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Partnership Accounts; Limited Company Accounts and 
Appropriation Accounts and Balance Sheets; Valuation and 
Treatment of Goodwill; System and Maintenance of Stock 
Records and Valuation of Stock-in-trade; Nature and 
Methods of Depreciation; Capital and Revenue, including 
deferred Revenue Expenditure; Treatment of Bad and 
Doubtful Debts; Sinking Funds; Provisions; Reserves and 
Reserve Funds; Simple Accounting Ratios of Manufactur- 
ing, Trading and Profit and Loss Accounts. 

Paper (Hi) — Cost Accounts and Statistics— (Three Hours)— 
100 Marks) 

Cost Accounts — Objects and Advantages of Costing; Ele- 
ments of Cost; Books and Records to be maintained; Pric- 
ing of Materials; Recording and Control of Materials; Re- 
quisitions; Bin Cards and Stores Ledgers; Methods of Cost- 
ing and Appropriate Industries to which they are appli- 
cable; Budgetary Control. 

Wastage, Shrinkage, Scrap, etc.; Recording of Labour; 
various Methods of payment of Wages; Idle time; Charge- 
ahle Expenses; Overhead Charges inside and outside the 
Factory; Basis for allocation of overheads; Machine Hour 
Rate; Standard Cost. 

Statistics — Meaning and scope of Statistics; Fundamental 
Principles; Utility to other Branches of Arts and Science 
and parlicularly Trade and Commerce; Limitations; 
Methods of Investigations and their relative importance; 
Statistical Enquiry — Purpose and Utility; Organisation and 
Questionnaires; their types and their drafting; Tabular 
Presentation of the Matters; Essentials of good tables; Me- 
thods of tabulation including Electric Tabulation; Types 
of Tables; Stubs and Captions. 

Averages; Meaning, different Types, Mean, Median and 
Mode and Weighted Averages; Merits and Demerits of 
each type; Moving Averages; Statistical co efficient for rela- 
tive Dispersion; Skewness. 

Sampling, Chance and Deliberate Sampling: Law of 
Statistical Regularity and Inertia of large numbers; Statis- 
tical Error; Sources of Errors; Relative and Absolute Errors; 
Biased Errors; Fallacies and their causes; Accuracy 
Standard Adopted, Approximation. 

Paper ( iv } — Auditing — (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

The Principles of Auditing including Audit Programme; 
Internal Audit; Verification of Assets and Liabilities; 
Technique of Auditing; Test Checks; Auditing of Accounts 
of Private Concerns and Partnership, Educational, Chari- 
table and other Institutions and Limited liability Compa- 
nies (excluding Divisible profits); Duties and Responsibili- 
ties of Auditors. 

Paper (v) — Mercantile Law and Company Law— (Three 
Hours — 100 Marks) 

Law relating to Contracts; Sale of Goods and Partner- 
ship Acts; Negotiable Instruments Act; Elements of Com- 
pany Law (limited to Part VI, I and II Chapters contain- 
ing sections 1 to 323). 

Paper (vi) — General Commercial Knowledge — (Three 

Hours — 100 Marks) 

Commercial Correspondence and Elements of Secretarial 
Practice; Office and Counting House Routines; Commercial 
and Insurance Terms; Stock Exchange Terms and the 
Practice in the Purchase and Sale of Shares, Securities, etc.; 
the Purchase. Sale, Storage and Conveyance of Goods 
(Home, Import and Export); the use of Hundies, Cheques, 
Bills of Exchange and Bills of Lading; Charter Parties, 
Railway Receipts; Fire and Marine Insurance. (At least 
one question on Commercial Correspondence and one 
question on Secretarial -Practice will be asked). 

The above particulars are intended as a general guide to 
questions which may be asked in each paper. 



Part lit— flic. 4 ] 


TH® OAZKlTE oP INDIA, JUNE 22, lM3 


339 


Fitsvl Examination 

7 Admission to final Examination — No candidate shall 
he admitted to the final Examination unless he— 

(i) has either passed the Intermediate Examination under 
these Regulations oi the Intermediate Examination or the 
Fust Examination under Chartered Accountants Regula- 
tions, 1049, or is exempted from passing the lust Examina 
tion undei the Chartered Accountants Regulations. 1949, 
and 

(n) has either completed such period of seivice as an 
articled rleik or as an audit cletk or partly as an ai tided 
clerk and partly as an audit clerk as is required lor admis- 
sion as a member, or is serving the last twelve months ol 
such period on 1st day of May or 1st day of November oi 
each y ear, for eligibility to the Examination that may be 
held in May or November, respectively: 

Provided that an interval of not less than eleven months 
shall have elapsed between the date of ihe candidate’s 
passing the Intel mediate Examination and the commence 
ment of the Final Examination 1 

Provided furthei that a candidate who had entered into 
articles or audit service for the first time on oi after the 1st 
da\ of July 195b and who desires to take both the Groups 
of the Final Examination together shall uot'be admitted 
to the Examination unless he produces a certificate fiom 
the Directoi of Studies oi the head of the coaching orga- 
nisation, by whatever name designated, set up under the 
aegis of the Council, to the effect that he has undergone a 
course of postal tuition satisfactorily for a period of 
eighteen months. 

Provided, however, that such a candidate may be permit 
ted to take any one of the Groups of the Final Fxannnation 
on his producing a certificate from the Director oi the 
head, to the effect that he has undergone a postal tuition 
satisfactorily for a period of twelve months: 

Provided further that such a candidate may be permit 
ted to take the remaining Group of the Final Examination 
on his producing a certificate from the Director or the 
head, that he has undergone a course of postal tuition 
satisfactorily for a further period of six months 

8 Final Examination admission fee — A candidate for ad- 
mission to both the Groups or only one Group of the final 
Examination shall pay respectively a fee of seventyseven or 
fiftytwo rupees 

9. Final Examination to be held prior to the lit day of 
July 1964— (1) A candidate for the Final Examinadon, to 
be held befoie the first day of July 1964, shall be examined 
in the subjects compused in the following two Groups and: 
shall be consideied to have passed the Examination- — - 

(r) if he is declared to have passed in both the groups 
simultaneously or in one Group at one time and 
in the remaining Group at a subsequent examina 
tion, before the first day of July 1964, or 

(li) if he is declared to have passed in one Group 
under the Charteied Accountants Regulations, 
1949 and in the remaining coriespondmg Group 
at an examination held befoie the first day of July 
1964, under these Regulations; or 

(lii) if he is declared to have passed in one Group 
undei the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1949 and subject to any direction to the contrary 
issued by the Council, in the remaining corres- 
ponding Group at an examination held after the 
first day of July 1964, under these Regulations. 

(2) No candidate shall be eligible to appear at a subse 
Liuent examination within the meaning of subpaiagraph 
(1) above for the purpose of passing in the remaining 
Group, unless it is one or more of the six examinations lm 
mediately following the examination in which he is declar- 
ed to have passed in one Group. 

(3) The minimum number of marks required for pass- 
ng in a Group shall be at one sitting 40 per cent of marks 

■in each paper of the Group and 50 per cent of the total 
marks of all the papers of that Group. 


GROUP I— ADVANCED ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT - 

ING 

Paper (i) Advanced Accounting — (/ hree Hours — 100 
marks ) — 

Including knowdedge of systems of accounting of com- 
mercial enterprises, Double Account System (with lefei 
ence to Electric Companies only); Educational, Charitable 
and other Institutions, Manufactuung, Trading and 
Piofit and Loss and Appiopnatton Accounts, Balance 
Sheets, Partnership Acounts, Accounts of Limited Com 
panics, including Poimatton, Reorganisation, Reconstiuc 
tion. Amalgamation and Liquidation of Companies 
Paper (n) — Advanced Accounting — ( Three Hours — 100 
Marks ) — 

Including knowledge of accounts of Banking companies. 
Insurance Companies, Mining Companies, Collieries, 
Holding and Subsidiary Companies, Accounts of Doctors, 
Lawyers Solicitors arid Vccountants, Depaitmental and 
Branch Accounts, including Foreign Branches, Prepara- 
tion of Accounts from Incomplete Records, Preparation of 
Financial Statements, their use and mterpieatation; Use 
ot Accounting Ratios, including Solvency Ratios, Capital 
Ratios, Inventory Ratios and Composite Ratios; Elements 
of Machine Accounting Government System of Account- 
ing 

Paper (tit)— Taxation — (Three Hours — 100 Marks ) — 

ui 

Law and Practice of income-tax and Estate Duty, includ 
ing practical problems 

Paper (iv) — Cost Accounts and Statistics — (Three Hours — 
100 Marks ) — 

Costing: Objects and Advantages of Costing; Elements 
of Cost, Books and Records to be maintained; Pricing of 
Materials Recording and Control of Materials; Requisi- 
tions, Bin Cards and Stores Ledgers, Reconciliation of 
Cost and Financial Accounts, Methods of Costing and 
Appropriate Industiies to which they arc applicable; 
Budgetary Control, Contiol of Accounts, Graphic Pre- 
sentation; Elements of Factory Oiganisation 

Wastage, Shrinkage, Scrap, etc; Recording of Labour,' 
Various Methods of payment ot Wages, Idle time; Charge 
able Expenses; Overhead Charges inside and outside the 
Factory; Basis for allocation of overheads; Machine hour 
Rate; Standard Costs, Different Methods of Costing. 

Statistics: Meaning and Scope of Statistics, Fundamental 
Principles; Utility to other Branches of Arts and Science 
and Paiticularlv Trade and Commerce; Limitations, 
Methods of Investigations ancl their relative importance, 
Statistical Enquiry — Puipose and Utility; Oiganisation and 
Questionnaires; Their 1 ypes and their Drafting, Tabular 
Presentation of the Matters; Essentials of Goods tables, 
Methods of Tabulation including Electnc Tabulation 
Types of Tables; Stubs and Captions. 

Averages; Meaning, Different Types, Mean Median and 
Mode and Weighted Averages, Merits and Demerits of 
each Type; Moving Aveiages; Statistical Coefficient for 
Relative Dispersion, Skewness 

Sampling, Chance and Deliberate Sampling; Law of 
Statistical Regularity and Inertia <nf large numbers; 
Statistical Error; Sources of Errors; Relaitive and Absolute 
Errors; Biassed Errors. Fallacies and thear causes; Accuracy 
Standard adopted Approximation. 

Papet (a) — Auditing— (Three Hours — 100 Marks ) — 

Including Audits of Private concerns, Partnetship and 
Joint Stock Companies, Co-operative Societies, Holding 
and Subsidiary Companies, Banking Companies and 
Insurance Companies Investigation into and criticism of 
Accounts; Audit Reports; Divisible Profits including Treat- 
ment of Dividend and Reserves; Rights, Duties and 
Liabilities of Auditors; Veiification and Valuation of 
Assets, Detection and Prevention of Frauds and Errors; 
Organisation of Accounts Department: the Chartered Ac- 
countants Act, 1949 including the Schedule, the Ethics of 
the profession and the History of Accountancy. 



340 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Part III — Sec. 4 


GROUP II— MERCANTILE LAW, COMPANY LAW 
AND ECONOMICS 

Paper (i) — Mercantile Law— (Three Hours — 100 Marks ) — 

Including the Law relating to Negotiable Instruments; 
Arbitration and Awards; Insolvency; Rights and Duties of 
Liquidators, Trustees and Receivers; Insurance Law; 
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and Societies Regulation Act, 
Paper (ii) — Company Law— ('Three Hours — 100 Marks ) — 

Company Law including winding up of Companies; 
Banking and Insurance Companies Act; and the Co-opera- 
tive Societies Act (Central and State). 

Paper (iii) — Economics— (Three Hours — 100 Marks)— 

(1) Nature and Significance of Economics Science; 
Meaning of Economic Terms; Nature of Wealth and 
Capital Allocation of Factors of Production to alternative 
uses; Crisis, Competition and Monopoly; Population and 
Productivity Effects of Inventions and Scientific Develop- 
ments; Production and Distribution in an Exchange Eco- 
nomy; 'Theories of Value; the Marginal Principle ancl the 
Law of Substitution; Theories of Wages, Rent, Profits and 
Interest; Money and Banking; Nature and Functions of 
Money; the value of Monetary Units; Currency and Credit 
System; the Banking System and Money Markets; Centra) 
Banks, Effects of Rising and Falling Prices; Theory of 
International Trade; Tariffs; the Effects of different 
Currencies and Banking Systems on the Foreign Exchanges; 
Foreign Exchanges and the Balance of payments; the Eco- 
nomic functions and activities of States; Public Finance 
and Principles of direct and indirect Taxation? Stock Ex- 
change; Money Markets; Investments; Company Finance 
and Capital Structure. 

(ii) Indian Economics, i.c., Modern Economic Develop 
ment of India in Agriculture; in Industry, including 
private and State owned and State Managed Industries, in 
Trade and Commerce including Foreign and Internal 
Trade; in Currency, Banking and Foreign Exchange and 
the Reserve Bank of India; Public Finance, including tlie 
Central Government and the State Governments, 

The above particulars are intended as a general guide 
to questions which may be asked in each paper. 

10, Final Examination to be held after 1st day of July 
1964— (1) A candidate for the Final Examination, to be 
held after the first day of July 1964, shall be examined in 
the subjects comprised in the following two Groups and 
shall be considered to have passed the Examination, if he 
is declared to have passed in both the Groups simultane- 
ously or in one Group at one examination and in the re- 
maining Group at a subsequent examination. 

(2) No candidate shall be eligible to appear at a subse- 
quent examination within the meaning of sub-paragraph 
(1) above for the purpose of passing in the remaining Group 
unless it is one or more of the six examinations immediate- 
ly following the examination in which he is declared to 
have passed in one Group. 

(3) The minimum number of marks required for pass- 
ing in a Group shall be at one sitting 40 per cent, of marks 
in each paper of the Groups and 50 per cent, of the total 
marks of all the papers of that Group. 

(4) This paragraph shall also apply to the candidates 
appearing for the Final Examination to be held after the 
first day of July 1963, who were declared to have passed 
the Intermediate Examination held in November 1962 or 
May 1963. 


GROUP I— ADVANCED ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT- 
ING 

Paper ( i ) Advanced Accounting — ( Three Hours- — 100 
Marks ) — 

Including knowledge of systems of accounting of 
commercial enterprises: Double Account System with refer- 
ence to Electric Companies only; Partnership Accounts 
including insolvency Accounts of Limited Companies, in- 
cluding formation. Re-organisation, Re construction, Amal- 
gamation and Liquidation of Companies; Accounts of 
Banking Companies; Insurance Companies, Mining Com- 
panies, Collieries, Accounts of Doctors, Lawyers, Solicitors 
and Accountants, Departmental and Branch Accounts 


including Foreign Branches; Government System of Ac- 
counting. 

Paper (ii) Advanced Accounting and Management 
Accounting — (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Holding and Subsidiary Companies; Preparation of Ac- 
counts from Incomplete Records, Preparation of Financial 
Statements; Their use and interpretation; Uses of Ac- 
counting Ratios; Elements of Machine Accounting; 
Management Accounting; Definition, Objectives, methods, 
technique and scope. 

Paper (iii) Costing — (Three hours — 100 Marks) 

Recording and accounting of direct materials; stores and 
finished stock; Treatment of losses on account of deprecia- 
tion, obsolescence, natural waste, various methods of re- 
munerating labour; Recording and Accounting labour; 
Incentive Systems; Factory overheads; Selling, Distribution 
and Administrative overheads; Reconciliation of Cost and 
Financial Accounts; Control Accounts, Collection and 
arrangement of data and presentatiofi of results: Cost audit; 
Elements of Factory Organisation, Budgetary Control, 
Marginal Costing and Standard Costing. 

Paper (iv) Auditing — (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Including Audits of Private Concerns, Partnership and 
Joint Stock (Companies, Co-operative Societies, Holding 
and Subsidiary Companies, Banking Companies and In- 
surance Companies, Investigation into and criticism of 
Accounts; Audit Reports; Divisible Profits including 
Treatment of Dividend and Reserves; Rights, Duties and 
Liabilities of Auditors; Verification and Valuation of 
Assets; Detection and Prevention of Frauds and Errors; 
Organisation of Accounts Department. The Chartered Ac- 
countants Act, 1949, including the Schedules; The Ethics 
of the profession and the History of Accountancy. 

Paper (v) Taxation — (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Law and practice of Income-tax including practica 1 
problems and practical problems on Expenditure Tax 
Wealth Tax, Gift Tax and Estate Duty, 


GROUP II— COMMERCIAL LAWS AND OTHER 
DIRECT TAXES ACTS, COMPANY LAW AND 
ECONOMICS: 

Paper (i) Commercial Laws and other Direct Taxes Acts— 
(Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Section 'A’: Arbitration Act; Insolvency Acts; Rights 
and Dudies of Receivers; Trusts Act; 
Societies Registration Act, Co-operative 
Societies Act (Central and States); 
Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. 

Section B’ : Expenditure Tax; Wealth Tax; Gift 
Tax; Estate Duty; Central Sales Tax Act, 
1956. 

Paper (ii) Company Law (Three Hours — 100 Marks) 

Section ‘A’: (70 Marks): The Companies Act, 1956. 

Section ‘B’: (30 Marks): Banking Companies Act, 
and Insurance Act. (Two questions only 
will be set). 

Paper (iii) Economics — (Three Hours— 100 Marks) 

(i) Nature and significance of Economics Science; 
Meaning of Economic Terms; Nature of Wealth atid, 
Capital; Allocation of Factors of Production to alternative 
uses; Crisis; Competition and Monopoly; Population and 
Productivity Effects of Inventions and Scientific Develop- 
ments; Production and distribution in an exchange 
economy; Theories of Value; the Marginal Principle and 
the Law of Substitution; Theories of Wages, Rent Profits 
and Interest; Money and Banking; Nature and Functions 
of Money; the value of Monetary Units; Currency and 
Credit System; the Banking System and Money Markets. 
Central Banks; Ellects of Rising and Falling Prices; Theory 
of International Trade; Tariffs; the Effects of different 
currencies and Banking systems on the Foreign Exchanges: 
Foreign Exchanges and the Balance of payments; the 
Economic functions and activities of States; Public Finance 
and Principles of direct and indirect Taxation; Stock Ex- 
change; Money Markets; Investments; Company Finance 
and Capital structure. 



Past Itt-Buc. 4 ] THU GAZETTE^ INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 341 


(u) Indian Economics, i.e. Modern Economic Develop- 
ment of India in Agriculture; in Indusrty; including 
private and State owned and State managed Industries; in 
Trade and Commerce including Foreign and Internal 
Trade; in Cunency, Banking and Foreign Exchange and 
the Reserve Bank of India; Public Finance, including the 
Central Government and the State Governments. 

The above particulars arc intended as a geheral guide 
to questions which may be asked in each paper. 

11. Period of training for a person engaged before the 
1 st day of July 1956— (1) A person who has entered into 
articles or audit service prior to the 1st day of July 1956 
and who has passed the examinations prescribed in this 
Schedule shall not be eligible for membership of the Insti- 
tute unless he produces a certificate in the appropriate 
Form from an appropriate person to the effect that he — 

(a) has served as an articled clerk for the total period 
specified below : 

(1) in the case of a person who has passed the degree 
examination of a University constituted by law in India or 
any other University recognised by the Central Govern- 
ment and has either taken accountancy, auditing and 
mercantile law or commercial law along with other sub- 
jects for the degree examination or has secured a minimum 
of 60 per cent of the total marks of all the papers at one 
sitting in the degree examination or who has been awarded 
the All India or National Diploma in Commerce by the 
All India Board of Technical Studies in Commerce and 
Business Administration and/or the All India Council for 
Technical Education with auditing as special subject, prior 
to entering into articles or audit service, and has under- 
gone practical training prescribed for the award of the said 
Diploma for a period of one year under a Chartered Ac- 
countant entitled to train articled clerks — 3 years. 

(ii) in the case of any other graduate — 4 years. 

(iii) in the case of a person who has passed the All India 
Diploma or National Diploma in Commerce Examination 
held by the All India Board of Technical studies in Com- 
merce and Business Administration and/or the All India 
Council for Technical Education with auditing as special 
subject — 4 years. 

(iv) in any other case — 5 years. 

(b) (i) An articled clerk may, with the permission of his 
employer, serve during the latter half of his service under 
articles, for a period not exceeding 12 months in all, in a 
financial, commercial or industrial undertaking whose total 
assets are not less than fifty lakhs of rupees or such other 
institution or organisation as may be approved by the 
Council. 

(ii) An articled clerk who has served in the manner 
specified in sub paragraph (i) shall obtain a certificate in 
the appropriate Form from a member or from a member 
of the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, 
under whom he has served. 

(iii) The period of service by an articled clerk, as speci- 
fied in sub paragraph (i), shall be treated as service under 
articles for all the purposes of these Regulations, provided 
the certificate referred to above is produced, 

(2) has served as an audit clerk for the period prescribed 
below : 

(i) in the case of a person referred to in sub-clause (i) of 
(l)(a) above — 6 years; 

(ii) in the case of a person referred to in sub-clauses (ii) 
and (iii) of (l)(a) above — 8 years; and 

(iii) in any other case— 9 years. 

(3) has served partly as an articled clerk and partly as 

an audit clerk for a total period as specified in sub-para- 
graph (2): r F 

Provided that for the purposes of computing the total 
period specified in sub paragraph (3), complete six months' 
service as an ai tided clerk shall be reckoned as one year's 
service as an audit clerk and vice versa and fractions of a 
period less than six months in the case of articled service 
and one year in the case of audit service, shall be ignored: 

Provided further that a person referred to in sub-clause 

(i) of clause (l)(a) above, who has entered into articles or 
audit service, as the case may be, prior to 1st July 1956, 


shall, unless his service is continuous, be governed by para- 
graph 12. 

Explanation — Any break in the service of a person refer- 
red to above prior to 1st July 1956, shall not be considered 
as break in service for the purposes of this proviso, if he — 

(a) has completed the period of practical training 
prescribed under this paragraph prior to the 1st of July 
1956; or 

(b) being in such service on the 1st day of July 1956, has 
completed the period of practical training prescribed under 
this paragraph without any break in service after the 1st 
day of July 1956: 

Provided, however, that the Examination Committee may, 
at its discretion, condone any break in such service. 

12. Period of training for a person after the 1st day of 
July 1956 — (1) A person who has entered into articles or 
audit service on or after the 1st day of July 1956 and has 
passed the examinations prescribed in this Schedule or 
recognised as equivalent thereto shall not be eligible for 
membership of the Institute unless he produces a certi- 
ficate in the appropriate Form from an appropriate person 
to the effect that he— 

(a) has served as an articled clerk for a total period of 
4 years; or 

(b) has served as an audit clerk for a total period of 8 
years; or 

>(c) has served partly as an articled clerk and partly as an 
audit clerk for the total period as specified in clause (b); or 

(d) has served as an articled clerk for a total period of 
3 years or as an audit clerk for a total period of 6 years or 
partly as an articled clerk and partly as an audit clerk for 
a total period as specified in this paragraph, if he has pass- 
ed the examination prescribed for the Government Diploma 
in Accountancy or an examination recognised as equiva- 
lent thereto by the rules for the award of the Government 
Diploma in Accountancy: 

Provided that for the purposes of computing the total 
period specified in clauses (c) or (d), complete six months’ 
service as an articled clerk shall be reckoned as one year’s 
service as an audit clerk and vice versa and fractions of a 
period less than six months in the case of articled service 
and one year in the case of audit service, shall be ignored. 

(2)(i) An articled clerk may, with the permission of his 
employer, serve during the latter half of his service under 
articles, for a period not exceeding 12 months in all, in a 
financial, commercial or industrial undertaking whose total 
assets are not less than fifty lakhs of rupees or such other 
institution or organisation as may be approved by the 
Council. 

(ii) An articled clerk who has served in the manner speci- 
fied in clause (i) shall obtain a certificate in the appro- 
priate Form from a member or from a member of the 
Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, under 
whom he has served. 

(iii) The period of service by an articled clerk, as speci- 
fied in clause (i) shall be treated as service under articles 
for all the purposes of these Regulations, provided the 
certificate referred to above is produced. 

13. Proof of training in the absence of a certificate — In 
the case of a person who is unable to produce, for a valid 
reason, a certificate in an appropriate Form from an appro- 
priate person, the Council may require such proof as it may 
determine that the former person has served either as an 
articled clerk or as an audit clerk, for the period required 
by paragraph 11 or 12, as the case may be. 

SCHEDULE ‘C 

Post Graduate Training 

1. Management Accountancy Course— ( 1) The Manage- 
ment Accountancy Course shall include a course of theore- 
tical training (Part I) and practical training (Part ,Ti) and 
separate certificates in the appropriate Form for the two 
parts shall be granted to those who qualify for the same, 
as hereinafter provided. 

(2) A candidate who has qualified in Parts I and II, shall 
be awarded a certificate in the appropriate Form. 



THU GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 19(53 


Eart HI — Seo. 4 


342 


2. Administration — Notwithstanding anything contained 
in regulation 150, the Management Accountancy Course 
shall be in charge ol a Committee appointed by the 
Council for the putpose, whose functions shall include 
holding of the examination, admissions thereto, appoint- 
ment and selection of examiners, prescription of books for 
the guidance of candidates, declaration of results and other 
allied matters. 

3. Admission to the examination ( Management Ac- 
countancy Course) ( Part I) — -(1) No candidate shall be ad- 
mitted to the Management Accountancy Examination 
(Part I) unless he is a member at the time of appearing at 
the examination and has been a member for a continuous 
period of not less than one year prior to the date of the 
examination. 

(2) Every candidate for admission to the examination 
shall pay a fee of one hundred rupees. 

4. Papers and syllabus — -(1) A candidate for the Manage- 
ment Accountancy Examination shall be examined in the 
subjects comprised in the following two Groups and shall 
be considered to have passed the examination if he is 
declared to have passed in both the Groups simultaneously 
or in one Group at one time and in the remaining Group 
at a subsequent examination. 

(2) No candidate shall be eligible to appear at a subse- 
quent examination within the meaning of sub-paragraph 
(1) for the purpose of passing in the remaining Group, un- 
less it is one or more of the six examinations immediately 
following the examination in which he is declared to have 
passed in one Group. 

(3) The minimum number of marks required for passing 
in a Group shall be 40 per cent of marks in each paper of 
the Group and 50 per cent of the total marks for all the 
papers of that Group. 

Provided that the Committee concerned may at its discre- 
tion, reduce the minimum pass mark upto three marks in 
one or more papers and upto five marks in aggregate: 

Group 1 — 

Paper 1— Management Accounting. 

Paper 2 — Management Accounting. 

Group 11 — 

Paper 1— Management and Organisation Struc- 
ture. 

Paper 2 — Economic and Management Policies. 
GROUP I 

Management Accounting — Papers 1 and 2 
Objectives ana Scope 

"Management Accounting" is a new approach to the 
function and usefulness of "Accounting”. It represents the 
use of Accounting as an aid to Management in their twin 
functions of (a) laying down policies of the business (b) 
Controlling the operations of the business with a view to 
maximising Profits. 

Management Accounting, therefore, does not imply a 
tudy of any new principles of Accounting. It is practical in 
its approach and it aims at associating the accountant with 
the Management in the making of business decisions and 
in constantly reviewing the implementation of such deci- 
sions, the fundamental objective being the attainment of 
lighest possible business efficiency. The Examinees should, 
therefore, note that mere theoretical knowledge will not 
be adequate. They should display ability to apply the 
Knowledge to a given situation and to analyse and inter- 
pret accounting figures in such a manner as to aid 
Management. 

Paper 1 covers the analysis and interpretation of con- 
cepts in the financial accounting area. In particular, the 
syllabus prescribed for the Paper is intended to cover the 
following : 

Analysis of the capital needs and the problems of 
'capital structure; 

(ii) Judging the efficiency of capital employed 
through an analysis of profitability of operations. 

(iii) Preparation and presentation of profit reports to 
management; 


(iv) Financial planning lor new projects 

(v) Problems of financial policy. 

Paper 2 covers the study of cost data in relation to the 
needs of Management. Beside the cdsting system for 
determination of Cost, it utilises the cost data for the 
purpose of control & planning. The syllabus for this paper, 
therefore, embraces the basic concepts of cost accounting, 
the selection of the most appropriate system of costing and 
the different approaches to cost. It also covers Budgetary 
Control which is the universally recognized tool of cost 
Control, cost problems related to new projects and the cost 
aspects of pricing. 

The paper does not attempt to examine the candidates 
in procedures of the different costing systems. The candi- 
dates should, however, note that unless they acquire a good 
understanding of the methods and. procedures of Cost 
Accounting they may not be able to effectively deal with 
this paper. 

Management Accounting — Paper 1 

(1) Concept of Capital with reference to — 

(a) Sources (Equity Vs. borrowed capital) 

(b) Period [working (short-term) capital Vs. long 
term capital] 

(c) Application (capital employed). 

Working capital — Nature of working capital — Analysis 
of working capital — Estimating the requirements of work- 
ing capital— Ratios and proforma statements — Fund-flow 
analysis— Cash flow analysis — Finance planning — Budget- 
ing — Effect of changes in credit policy, pricing policy, pur- 
chasing policy and production planning on working capi- 
tal — Methods of financing working capital requirements 
(sources of Short-term financing), 

Long-term Capital — (Equity and borrowed) Determina- 
tion of the capital structure in relation to varying circum- 
stances of ownership, control and risk — Debt Vs. Stock — • 
Trading on equity— Pticing and placing of securities— 
Dilution — Problems of refunding, Recapitalisation and re- 
organisation— Valuation of securities — Regulation of 
capital issue in India — Capital expenditure — Determining 
the cost of capital, 

(2) Probability of operations and return on capital— 
Technique of analysing the financial statements using 
different kinds of ratios— Cost of sales. Manufacturing 
overhead, administrative overhead and sales overhead— - 
allocated cost — cash vs. book profits. 

Concept of earning power: calculating the earning 
power of an enterprise in terms of sales turnover, margin 
of profit, total .assets and operating assets. 

Concept of return on capital: Various variables affecting 
the return on capital — Impact of inflation on return on 
capital — return after tax. 

(3) Measurement of profits and presentation to Manage- 
ment : 

(a) Measurement of profits by — Period (monthly, 
quarterly, etc.) Function, department, division or 
section, etc. Product group. 

(b) For a uniform basis of comparing the profitability 
of operations, criteria to be used in treating the 
overheads — Preparation of profit statements for 
control and managerial decisions. 

(c) Designing reports on profitability of operations 
for the use of top management. 

(4) New Projects • — Development and expansion— Pro- 
ject planning — Determining working capital and long 
term capital requirements and estimating the profitability 
of operations and returns on capital — approach based on 
discounted cash flows and pay back method— Determining 
the capital structure in terms of availability of sources of 
finance and maximisation of return on capital — Prepara- 
tion of cash budgets so as to facilitate timing of financial 
commitments— capital expenditure control Programme. 

(5) Higher Management financial policy — -Plough back, 
Tax and depreciation considerations — -Dividend policy— 
Bonus shares — Right issues— Under and over-capitalisa- 
tion — Market value of shares. 



Part III— Sec. 41 


THE GAZETTE QT INDIA, JUNE 22, 19<W 


343 


(6) Tools for Management Accounting — Comparative 
statements — statement of smitus and application of funds 
— Graphs- Chaits Trend Analssis 

(7) Repoits: 

(a) Presentation of accounting and financial data to 
the Board. 

(b) Presentation of data to Management: Furnishing 
lelevant financial data to various levels of 
management. 

(c) Presentation of annual accounts: Company Law 
requirements— Meaningful display of financial 
data. 

Management Accounting — Paper 2 


Section A 

(1) Cost Accounting — Classification of cost: Material, 
Labour. Overhead, Fixed, Variable and Semi fixed costs — 
Methods of distribution of overheads — methods of cost 
finding: Job costs, process costs, standard costs. Direct 
costs, 

Standard costs — Setting up standards — Getting accept- 
ance of- standads — Attainable standards — Frequency of 
changes of standards — Analysis of variances. 

(2) Setting up a cost system — -Selection of a cost system- - 
Making the cost system understood bv the Management- 
Organisation and installation of the selected cost system — 
Minimising the cost of cost accounting— Application of 
cost systems only to certain functional areas of the business 
unit. 


Section B 

(1) Budgetary Control : 

Budgeting: Types of budgets — Budget procedures — 
Flexible budgeting — Preparation, Operation, Corrlrol and 
Problems of : 

(a) Opeiating budgets; 

(b) Capital Budgets; 

(c) Financial budgets; 

(d) Long-term and perspective budgets. 

Functions and responsibilities of the budget depart- 
ment — Responsibility centres — Control through budgets: 
Analysis of variances, causes of variances, corrective actions 
proposed, effect of corrective actions. 

(2) Interpretation of costs in Decision Making : 

(a) Kinds of Costs: 

Historical costs 

Controllable and uncontrollable costs 
Out of pocket costs 
Marginal Costs 
Replacement Costs. 

(b) Costing of Projects : 

Analysis of costs for alternative choices — Weigh- 
ing and measuring quantitative factors— Future 
costs— Differential costs— Estimating the return 
on capital — Unadjusted return on investment 
method and the financial method. 

(c) Make or buy decisions — Consideration of relevant 
costs — profit maximisation, 

(d) Product pricing: Breakeven cost analysis — Con- 
sideration of volume and margin in terms of 
demand and supply, 

GROUP II 

MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUC- 
TURE— Paper 1 
Objectives and Scope : 

The object of the Paper is to test the knowledge of 
the examinees regarding the managerial functions of the 
executives in diffeient functional areas and at different 
levels and also of the organisational framework within 
which they operate. The subject covers broadly the con- 
cept and nature of managerial functions in terms of plan- 
ning, organising, motivating and controlling. Section A of 


the paper is essentially desiriptive in nature and the 
examinees are expected to be familiar with the functional 
activities of industrial cutcrpiises. 

Section B provides for an analytical study of the organi- 
sation structure and it is technique-oriented in that the 
examinees should he familiar with the methods and pro- 
cedures of building an organisation structure. Though 
management accountants are not called upon to handle 
robleins of organisational change, they should however 
e familiar with the techniques of organisation, so that 
they would be in a position to participate effectively in 
discussions on organisational problems affecting their 
function. 

MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION STRUC- 
TURE 

Section A 

The concept of management — The process of manage- 
ment: Planning, Organising, Motivating and Controlling — 
The functional areas of managemetii : Finance, Produc- 
tion, Personnel, Marketing, Purchasing and other staff 
functions — A detailed study of the functional areas in a 
typical industrial enterprise. 

(a) Finance: Nature of company finance as a functional 
area of management— Organisation of finance depart- 
ment — Functions of the department: Accounting, Audit 
and Cost Control systems — Administiation of the depart- 
ment. 

(b) Production: 

(i) Plant location — Factors determining location — 
Layout 

(ii) Typical manufacturing processes and machine 
operations 

(iii) Working of the production unit — Production 

planning and scheduling — Production control and 
quality control — work simplification and produc- 
tivity — Time and motion studies — Inventory 

control — Purchasing, storing and despatching — 
Production Engineering — Materials handling and 
plant maintenance 

(iv) Organisation structure of a typical manufacturnig 
unit. 

(c) Personnel: 

(i) Functions ctf personnel department — Personnel 

selection, induction and training — Placement — 
Transfer, promotions and retirement— Salary and 
wage administration— Employee welfare and re- 
creation — -medical assistance — -Safety — Place of 

personnel department in the organisation struc- 
ture of a typical industrial enterprise 

(ii) Labour ^management problems— Trade Unions. 

(d) Marketing: Functions of marketing department 
Sales, Advertising, Marketing research, Publicity, Sales 
force, Statistics, Distribution, Transportation, Price policy. 
Forecasting and Market analysis. 

(e) Other Functions: Buying, legal, trade marks— 
Secretarial, economic, operational statistics, organisation 
and methods (O 8c M), 

Section B 

Nature of internal organisation of a business enterprise — - 
Principles of organisation: Typical patterns of grouping 
activities — Line, Staff and lateral relationships — Concepts 
of authority and span of supervision— Delegation of autho- 
rity and managerial control. 

Studying the efficiency of the organisation structure as a 
whole m terms of levels of authority and span of control — - 
Problems of re-organisation and decentralisation. 

Organisation Charts — W ork (low charts — Organisation 
manuals. 

ECONOMIC AND MANAGEMENT POLICIES— 
Paper 2 

Objectives and Scope: 

The objective of this paper is to test the candidates’ 
awareness of the framework of industrial and economic 
policies of the Government within which individual firms 



344 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


operate and also o£ the vaiious techniques of management. 
Candidates should theiefore study the ttetids in the field 
of Government economic policies and their implications on 
management policies and practices. 

Section A of the paper covers broadly a study of the 
industrial development in India in the context of the Five 
Year Economic Plans with particular reference to Govern- 
ment regulation of industry. Economic development should 
be studied from the point of view of businessman rather than 
that of a historian. The emphasis should therefore be on 
the trends of industrial development and their meaning- 
ful interpretation from the management's point of view. 

Section H provides for an examination of some current 
issues with which the management accountant is expected 
to be familiar. The areas of study indicated in the syllabus 
under this Section may include contemporary practices in 
other countries. The examinees should therefore be up- 
to-date on the current thinking on the topics and be pre- 
pared to examine the application of the theoretical con- 
cepts to Indian conditions as studied under Section A. 

ECONOMIC AND MANAGEMENT POLICIES 
Section A 

Economic Policy : 

Five-Year Plans and industrial development— A study of 
the Planning Commission’s programme of industrial deve- 
lopment with a view to obtaining an idea of the develop- 
ment of specific industries during a given period— Govern- 
ment regulation of industry with particular reference to: 

(i) Location of industries 

(ii) Industrial development and Regulation Act 

(iii) Industrial Relations (wage boards, labour dis- 
putes, joint councils, etc.) 

(iv) Tariff protection (Tariff Commission enquiries) 

(v) Foreign exchange control 

(vi) Export Promotion — Government incentives 

(vii) Export-Import policy — Trade agreements— 

common markets. 

(viii) Company Legislation 

(ix) Control of capital issues 

(x) Business taxation policy. 

Section B 

Management Policies and Practices 

I. Financial : 

Central Government budgeting 

Capital market conditions 

Placing of securities on the market — current practices 

Sources of finance in India— A study of the different 
kinds of financial institutions in India such as 
commercial banks, quasi-government financial 
institutions, international financial agencies, stock 
market and of the terms on which funds are 
available to business enterprises. 

Company Law Administration — its observations on 
matters relating to financial aspects of company 
management 

Trends in the flow of foreign capital — Nature of 
foreign collaboration agreements— Government 
regulations 

Floatation of new companies — Trend with particular 
reference to capital structure (working and long- 
term and classes of securities). 

II. Managerial-. Current managerial techniques and 
practices : 

A study of the latest techniques and practices in 
the areas of finance and cost administration with a view 
to emphasising their managerial significance. 

Analysis of operating statements and annual reports of 
the leading companies of a selected few major industries 
(both consumer and industrial goods) with particular 
reference to the following factors: 

(a) Capital structure; 

(b) Rate of return; 

(c) Dividend policy; 

(d) Earning power; 


[ Pabt III— Seo. 4 


(e) Methods of financing (plough-back); 

(f) Earnings per share Vs. market value. 

Inter-firm and intra-firm comparisons. 

Inflation and depreciation Accounting practices, 

Application of the concept of contiol to disli ibution 
costs, 

Concept of Accountability in puhlic enterprises and 
current practices of reporting control information, 

Data processing by machines. 

5. Conduct of examinations — (1) The examination may 
be conducted at such intervals, in smh manner and at such 
time and places, as the Council may direct. 

(2) The dates and places of the examination and other 
particulars shall be notified in the Gazette of India. 

6. Application for admission to examination— An appli- 
cation for admission to the examination shall be made in 
the approved form, a copy of which may be obtained from 
the Secretary, and together with the prescribed fee, shall 
be sent so as to reach the Council in accordance with the 
directions given by it. 

7. Refund of fee — (1) The fee paid by a candidate who 
has been admitted to an examination shall not, except as 
otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (2), be refunded. 

(2) Where a candidate applies to the Council for the 
transfer of fee to the next examination on the giound that 
he was prevented from attending the examination on ac- 
count of circumstances beyond his control, the Council 
may permit the fee paid by such candidate to be appro- 
priated towards the fee payable only for the next follow- 
ing examination : 

Provided that no such application received after the ex- 
piry of fifteen days of the last date of the examination shall 
be considered. 

8. Declaration of result — (1) A list of successful candi- 
dates shall be published in the Gazette of India, 

(2) A candidate passing the examination (Part I) shall be 
granted a certificate in the appropriate Form. 

(3) All the candidates shall be informed of the marks 
obtained in each paper. 

9. Action against candidates resorting to unfair means — 
If it is reported to the Committee that a candidate has le- 
sorted to or has attempted to resort to unfair means for the 
purpose of passing the examination the Committee shall 
hold an enquiry and submit a report to the Council which 
may, after any further investigation as it may consider 
necessary, take such disciplinaiy action .against the candi- 
date as it thinks fit: 

Provided that an opportunity shall be given to the candi- 
date of being heard before an order adverse to him is pass- 
ed. 

10. Examiners — The Committee may make such arrange- 
ments and may appoint such examiners to set question 
papers and value answer books as it may deem fit. 

11. Amendment of result — In any case where it is found 
that the result of an examination has been affected by error, 
malpractice, fraud, improper conduct or other matter, of 
whatever nature, the Committee hereinbefore mentioned 
shall have the power to amend such result in such manner 
as shall be in accord with the true position and to make 
such declaration as the Committee shall consider neces- 
sary in that behalf. 

12. Practical training ( Management Accountancy 
Course — Part II) — (1) A membei, who has had practical 
training for a period of two years in the organisations that 
may be recommended by the Committee in this behalf and 
who satisfies the conditions hereinafter mentioned, shall be 
granted a certificate in the appropriate Form. 

(2) The Committee may prepare a list of organisations, 
service in which may be recognised towards practical train- 
ing referred to hereinbefore. 

(3) A candidate desiring to qualify himself for the grant 
of a certificate referred to *in sub-paragraph (1) shall make 
an application, at least two years in advance giving notice 
of his intention to qualify for the same. 


345 


Part III— Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


(4) 'The application shall he accompanied bv a registrn- 
ion fee of 011 c hundred rupees which shall not he refunded 
‘xtept where (he application is not accepted for any 
eason. 

13. Thesis — (1) A candidate, after undergoing the practi- 
cal training for a period of 2 years as may be directed by 
he Committee, shall submit a thesis 011 a suhjert to be ap- 
proved by the Committee, within a period of three months. 

(2) The thesis shall be submitted with a fee of one 
hundred and fifty rupees which shall not be refundable. 

13) The candidate shall submit in English three type- 
written or printed copies of the thesis embodying the re- 
sults of his training and research and stating whether the 
work is based on the discovery of new facts hy the candi- 
date or of new relations ot tacts observed hy others and 
how the work lends to the genet al advancement of know- 
ledge, 

(4) The candidate shall further submit a statement indi- 
cating the sources from which his information has been 
derived and the extent to which he has based tbs work on 
the work of others and shall indicate which portion or 
portions of his work he claims as original. 

(5) The Committee shall forward the thesis to the 
referees appointed by it for their advice whether the thesis 
is of a sufficiently high degree or merit as to deserve appro- 
val or whether it may be modilicd and if so, in what manner, 
or whether it may be rejected. 

14. Interview — The candidate shall be required to appear 
before an inlet view board that may be appointed by the 
Committee in this behalf. 

15. Grant nf certifuate — A candidate who has completed 
-/he practical training, whose thesis has been accepted and 

who has been successful at the interview, shall be eligible 
for a certificate in the appropriate Form. 

Ifi. Record of training— A complete record showing the 
details of training undergone by the candidate shall be 
maintained by him and a copy thereof shall be submitted 
to the Committee from time to time. 

17. Advisory board — (1) The Committee may appoint an 
advisoty board consisting of not more than 5 persons to 
advise the Committee on the syllabus, examinations, prac- 
tical training, research and any other matter relating to 
Management Accountancy, as might be referred to it. 

(2) The members of the advisory board shall be eligible 
for travelling allowance and daily allowance .according to 
-the rates that may be approved bv the Council. 

B. R. MALHOTRA 

Secretary 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 

NOTIFICATIONS 
Bombay, the 13 th June 1963 

No. ARC. 40/PR.323-62/63 — In pursuance of clause (a) 
of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), the Reserve Bank of India, hereby 
nominates Prof, D. G. Karve, a Deputy Governor of the 
Reserve Bank of India, to be the Chairman of the Board 
of Directors of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
with effect from the 1st July 1963. 

No. ARC. 41/PR.323-62/63 — In pursuance of clause (b) 
of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), the Reserve Bank of India, hereby 
nominates Shri P. D, Kasbekar, Chief Officer. Agricultu- 
ral Credit Department, Reserve Bank of India, Bombay, 
to be a Director of the Board of the Agricultural Refi- 
nance Corporation with effect from the 1st July 1963, 

No. ARC. 42 /PR. 323-62 / 63 — In pursuance of clause (g) 
af section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation 
Act, 1663 (10 of 1963), the Reserve Bank of India, hereby 
appoints Shri V. Sivara man, Officer on Special Duty, 


Agricultural Credit Department, Reserve Bank of India, 
Bombay, to be the Managing Director of the Agricultural 
Refinance Coropration with effect from the 1st July 1963. 


P. C. BHATTACHARYA 
Governor 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 


New Delhi, the 1th June 1963 


No. 5-CA(l) / 5 / 63-64 — With reference to this Institu- 
te’s Notification No 4-CA(l)/ 12/62-63 dated the 21st 
December 1962, it is hereby notified in pursuance of Re- 
gulation 14 of the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 
1949, that in exercise of the powers conferred by Regula- 
tion 13, of the said Regulations, the Council of the Insti- 
tute of Chartered Accountants of India has restored to 
Ibo Register of Members, with effect from the 18th day 
of May 1963, the name of Shri Kundey Ram Chaturvedi, 
F.C.A,, Accounts Officer (Prodn.), Hindustan Steel Ltd., 
Qr. No. B-60, Sector-17, Rourkela-3, (Membership No. 
2439). 

B. R. MALHOTRA 
Secretary 


STATE BANK OF INDIA 


NOTICES 

Calcutta, the 5 th June 1963 

In pursuance of Regulation 40(1) of the State Bank of 
India General Regulation, 1955, it is hereby notified that 
Shri Vinod Vrajlal Parekh of 52/4, Ballygunge Circular 
Road, Calcutta 19, being the only person validly nominat- 
ed for election shall be deemed to be elected as a Mem- 
ber of the Calcutta Local Board of the State Bank of 
India on the 19th June 1963, with effect on and from the 
1st July, 1963 and that the Local Meeting of shareholders 
which was to be held on Wednesday, the 19th June 1963 
in terms of the Bank’s Notice of the 10th April 1963, 
solely for the purpose of the aforesaid election, stands 
cancelled 

B. K. KACKER 
Secretary 
Calcutta Local Board 


Madras, the 5 th June 1963 

Notice is hereby given pursuant to Regulation 40(1) of 
the State Bank of India General Regulations 1955, that 
only one valid nomination for the election of member of 
the Madras Local Board of the Bank has been received 
viz., that of Shri Trichur Sundaram Krishna of “T.V.S. 
Building”, West Veli Street, Madurai and as such he is 
declarded elected as a member of the Madras Local 
Board with effect from the 1st July 1963. A Local Meet- 
ing of the Shareholders on the Madras Register was con- 
vened to be held on the 19th June 1963, solely for the pur- 
pose of electing a member of the Madras Local Board and 
as only one valid nomination has been received, the 
meeting shall stand cancelled in terms of the abovemen- 
tioned Regulation. 

R. K. TALWAR 
Dy. Secretary and Treasurer 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation 

NOTIFICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 12 th June 1963 

No, INS.1-22(1)-1/63(A)— In pursuance of the powers 
conferred by section 46(2) of the Employees’ State In- 
surance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), read with Regulation 95-A 



346 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


[ Part ITT — Ssso. 4 


of the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 
1950, I hereby notify the 30th June, 1963 as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu- 
lation 95-A and the Madras Employees’ State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit) Rules, 1954, shall be extended to the 
families of the insured persons in the areas of Gudiya- 
tham and Virudhunagar in the State of Madras, Name- 
ly:- • 

I. The areas within the limits of revenue village of:— 

(a) Cheruvankl; 

(b) Gudiyatham; 

(c) Pichanur; 

(d) Kondasamudram; 

(e) Chedukkaral; 

(f) Nelloripet; 

(g) Udayendram. 

in Guldyatham taluk, North Arcot District.. 

II. The areas within the limits of the revenue villages 
of: — 

(a) Kottaipatti; 

(b) Allampatti; and 

(c) Kooraikundu. 

in Virudhunagar Sub-Taluk, in Ramanathapuram 

District. 

III. The areas comprised within the revenue village of 
Soolaikarai in Aruppukottai taluk, in Ramanathapuram, 
District. 

No, INS. I-22(l)-l /63(B) — In pursuance of the powers 
conferred by section 46(2) of the Employees’ State Insu- 
rance Act 1948 (34 of 1948 , read with Regulation 95-A of 
the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulation, 
1950 I hereby notify 30th June 1963 as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu- 
lation 95-A and the Mysore Employees’ State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958, shall be extended to the 
families of insured persons in the following areas of Bel- 
gaum in the State of Mysore, namely:— 

The areas covered by the Municipal limits of Bel- 
gaum and inclusive of the following areas in 
in and around the Municipal limits of Belgaum, 
namely : — 

1 City Survey limits. 

2. Mazagaon area, including survey No. 691/1/2. 

3. Cantonment area. 

4. Khasbag, survey Nos. 80, 76, 46. 

5. Angol, Survey, No. 733. 

6 Survey Nos. 899, 10, 892, 1409, 368, 897 and 1381. 

No INS. I-22(1)-1/G3(C) — In pursuance of the powers 
conferred by section 46(2) of the Employees’ State Insu- 
rance Act 1.948 (34 of 1948), read with Regulation 95-A 
of the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 
1950, I hereby notify 20th- June 1963, as the date from 
which the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu- 
lation 95-A and the Uttar Pradesh Employees’ State In- 
surance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1961, shall he extended 
to the families of insured persons in the following areas 
of Dehradun, Mathura, Hapur and Harangaon in the 
State of Uttar Pradesh, namely:— 

7. DEHRADUN:— 

(i) The areas within the Municipal Board, Dehradun. 

(ii) The areas within the Cantonment Board, Dehra- 
dun. 

(id) Villages Udaiwala Karanpur, Chukhuwala, 
Mohebiawala Niranjanpur, Dehradun, Ranghai- 
wala, Karanpurkhas, Dehrakhas, and Kaulagarh in 
Pargana Tehsil and District Dehradun, 


II. MATHURA:— 

(i) Tiie areas within the Municipal Board, Mathura. 

(ii) The areas within the Cantonment Board, 
Mathura. 

(iii) Village Ahilyaganj in Pargana, Tehsil and Dis- 
trict Mathura. 

III. HAPUR:— 

(i) The areas within the Muncipal Board, Hapur, 
Pargana and Tehsil Hapur, District Meerut. 

(ii) The areas within the Municipal Board, Hapur^ 
Pargana Sarwa, Tehsil Hapur, District Meerut) 

(iii) Village Hapur Shivgarhl in Pargana and Tehsil 
Hapur, District Meerut 

IV. HARANGAON : — 

Village Harangaon in Pargana and Tehsil Firozabat., 
District Agra. 

No. INS I-22(1)-1/63(I>) — In pursuance of the power 
conferred by section 46(2) of the Employees’ State Insu- 
rance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), read with Regulation 95-A of 
the Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 
1950, I hereby notify the 30th June 1963 as the date from 
which, the medical benefit as laid down in the said Regu- 
lation 95-A and the Bihar Employees’ State Insurance 
(Medical Benefit) Rules, 1951 shall be extended to the 
families of insured persons in Gaya, Muzaffarpur and 
Mokameh in the State of Bihar namely:— 

I. GAYA:— 


The areas within the Municipal limits of Gaya, and 
the following revenue villages: — 


Name of revenue 

Name of revenue 

No. of revenue 

village. 

lhana. 

Thana. 

(a) Pilmni 

Mofuseil Gaya 

251 

(b) Abgilla 

do 

314 

( 0 ) Gere 

do 

252 

II. MOKAMEH : — 



The areas within the limits of Mokameh Notified area 

Committee and the following 

revenue villages 

of : — 


Nome of revenue 

Namo of revenue 

No. of revenue 

village. 

thana. 

Thana. 

(ft) Mur&rpiir 

Mokameh 

24 

(b) Dariapur 

do 

23 

(e) Phar&mpur 

do 

22 

(d) Hathidah 

do 

21 

III. MUZAFFARPUR:- 

— 


The areas within the Municipal limits of Muzaffar- 

pur. 


V. N. RAJANv 
Director General 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(Posts and Telegraphs) 

NOTIFICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 11th June 1963 

No. 25/19/63-LI— Postal Life Insurance (Endowment) 
Policy No. 34773C dated 12th July 1949 for Rs. 5,000/- held 
by Shri K. Babu Rao, having been lost from his custody, 
notice is hereby given that the payment thereof has been 
stopped. The Deputy Director, Postal Life Insurance, 
Calcutta has been authorised to issue a duplicate policy 
in favour of the insurant. The public are hereby caution- 
ed against dealing with the original policy. 

V. E. ARUNACHALAM 
Director Postal Life Insurance 



Part III — Seo. 4 ] 


347 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 

MINISTRY OP information and broadcasting 

Central Board of Film Censors 
FART I 

Particulars of Films granted or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 

16th. February 1963 

Instructions : — B — Bombay; C — Calcutta; M— Madras. 'U' Certified for unrestricted public exhibition. 

‘A’ Certified for public exhibition restricted to Adults i.e. 
persons who have completed their 18t.h year. 


Applica- 
tion No. 

Name of the film with 
language and country of 
origin 

Length of 
the film in 
metres and 
No. of 
reels 

Name of the person or 

Co. applying for the 
certificate with address 

Name of the person or 
Co. who has produced 
the film with address 

Nature of 
the oortifleato 
granted and 
No. and 
date of the 
certificate 
issued or 
date on 
whioh it 
woh refused 

Rcruarku 

1 

2 

3 

4 

6 

fl 

7 


B/30380 Trailer of "If A Man Answers” 84(1) 

(Colour), (English), 36 mm. 

— U.8.A. 

Endorsement — 

No. B/36380. 

Film — “Trailer of “If A Man Answers” (Colour). 

Length applied — 87 m. 

U-Cert. No. 37500 of 11-2-03. 

Delete — 

From the following dialogue of Chantal, the underlined words : "In short, the honeymoon Is over. 

I think Eugene and I would have been much happier if I'd become hie mistress instead of his wife ” — 2 ■ 79 m. 

Actual length of the trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be — 84 m. 

/5te383 “A Star Grows Up” (Fashion 191(1) Do, Do 

Trailer of "If A Man Ans- 
wers” (English), (Colour) 36 
mm.--U.S.A. 


U 

37570 


11-2-03 


With triangle mark 


BOMBA Y 

Universal Pictures India Ross Hunter, U.3.A. 
Private Ltd., Metro House, 

M. G. Road, Bombay 1. 


U 

37509 


11-2-63 


With triangle mark, 


ndorsement — 

No. B/36383. 

Film— "A Star Grows Up (Fashion Trailor of “If A Man Angwers”)(CoIour}. 
Length applied — 194 m. 

U-Cert. No. 87670 of 11-2-03. 


Reduce — 

To a mere flash passionate love-making between a man and Sandra Dee — 2-82 m. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions wiU be — 191 m. 


/300O8 “Conservatoire of Prague” 189(1) 
(English), 10 mm . — 
Czechoslovakia, 

/300O9 “1 will Not Eat" (English), 190(1) 

10 mm. — Czechoslovakia. 


/B001O “Steel For Tomorrow” (Eng- 162(1) 
lish), 10 mm. — Czechoslo- 
vakia. 

'30084 "On The Frontiers of Bavaria" 102(1) 
(English), 10 mm. — Ger- 
many. 


80036 “A City of Optimists” (Eng- 128(1) 
liah), 10 mm. — Germany. 


30037 "Partner# In The Factory” 102(1) 
(English), 18 mm.— Ger- 
many. 

H/30088 “Deutschland Spiegel Christ- 203(1) 
mas Edition” (Colour). 


16689 "President's Investiture 304(2) 
1962”, (English), 85 mm. 

— India. 


U 

Consulate General of the Documentary Film Studio, 37671 

Czechoslovak SooialistRe- Czechoslovakia. 

public, 5-Peddor Road, 11-2-03 

Bombay 20. 

Do. Kratky Films, Czechoslovakia. U 

37672 


11 - 2-02 


Consulate General of the Kratky Films, Czechoslovakia. U 

Czechoslovak Socialist 87573 

Republic, 6-Peder Road, — 

Bombay 20. 11-2-03 

Consulate General of the H. G. Zeiss Film, Germany . . U 

Federal Republic of Ger- 37674 

many, Dugal House, Road 

No. 3, Bombay 1. 11-2-03 

U 

Do. R.O.F. Prodnotion . . 87575 


11-2-03 

U 

Do. Ifag Report, Germany. , . 87670 


11-2-03 


Do. 


U 

Deutsohe Reportage Film A.G., 37677 

Germany. — — 

11-2-63 


U 

Films Division, Govt, of Films Division, Govt, of India 37578 
India, 24-Pedder Road, 

Bombay 20. 


11-2-03 



348 


the: gazette: of india, June 22, 1953 

[ Tart 111 — Sec. 4 





l 

2 

3 4 6 

0 7 


B/30221 


“Black Gold" (English), 3(1 2070(10) Warner Bros, Pictures lno., Warner Bros. Pictures Inc. 
mm.— U.S.A. 42-Queen's Road, Bombay 1, 


U 

37570 


12-2-63 


With triangle mark. 


Endorsement — 1 
No. B/30221, 

Film— “Black Gold 1 ’ (English). 

Length applied — 2‘69j metres. 

U-Cert. No. 37579 of 12-2-03. 

Delete— 

Red /—-Shota of two women fighting In the street — 4-00 metres. 

Reel II— Prom sequonoe of Julie’s song number “Nobody lied”, shot, in which she bonds forward revealing her bust partially — 1-08 metres. 
Reel III — Prom the light of Rank and Jericho versus hooligans, shots of blows on the abdomen — 3 '90 metres. 

Red VII — From fight m the saloon, shots of kicking and hitting in the stomach — 4 ■ 56 metres. 

Reduce - — 

Reel V — -To a flash shots of Ann seen in underwear iu her bedroom — 1-57 metres, (Completely deleted). 

Length of deletions — 18 -70 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions mill be — 2070-00 motres. 


U 

B/30222 Trailer of “Blaok Gold” 63(1) Warnor Bros. First National Warner Bros. Pictures lno., 37580 

(English), 55 mm. — U.M.A. Pictures lno., 42-Queen's U.S.A. — — ■ -- — ■ — With triangle mark. 

Road, Bombay 1. 12-2-03 


Endorsement— 

No. B/30222. 

Trailer of “Black Gold” (English). 

Length applied — 00 metres. 

U-Cert. No. 37580 of 12-2-03. 

Delete shots of fighting In saloon — 0 '05 metres. 
Length of deletions — 0-05 metres. 


Actual length of the trailers after the a,foresaid deletions will be — 03 metres. 


B/30548 Trailer of "Period of Adjust- 82(1) 
rnent” (English), 36 mm. — 

U.S.A. 


Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer India Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer U.S.A. 
Ltd., Metro House, M. G, 

Road, Bombay 1, 


U 

87581 


13-2-03 


B/30644 "Call of The Nation” (Desh 42(1) 
KiPukarj (English), 35 mm. 
—India. 


B/30660 “Uplca Handloom House" 66(1) 
(Colour), 36 mm.— India. 


U 

Indian Documentary Produ- Indian Documentary Produ- 87582 

oers Association, National oers Association, National — Valid for English & 

House, Apollo Bunder, House, Apollo Bunder, 13-2-63 Hindi versions. 
Bombay 1. Bombay 1. 

U 

Santos Film Corporation, Santos Film Corporation, 37583 

Braboume Stadium, Veer Brabourne Stadium, Veer 

Nariman Road, Bombay 1. Nariman Road, Bombay 1. 13-2-63 


B/30594 


U Valid for Englls, 

“The Silont Sentinels” (Colour), 570(2) Films Division, Govt, of India, Films Division, Govt, of India 37584 Hindi, Tamili, 

35 mm. — India. 24-Peddar Road, Bombay Telugu, Bengali, 

20. 13-2-03 Gujarati, Marathh 

Kannada, 
Malayalam, 
Punjabi, Orly a, 

Assamese and 
Urdu versions. 


B/30031 "Saving For Defence”, 86 109(1) 

mm. — India. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

37685 


18-2-63 


Do. 


B/30082 “Indian News Review No. 279(1) 
749”, 35 mm.— India. 


Do. 


Do. 


U 

37580 


13-2-03 


Do. 


B/80707 


B/30679 


“British Moviotona News No. 174(1) 
1758” (English), 35 mm. — 

U.K. 


“Maharashtra State News 809(1) 
Magazine No. 128” 35 mm. 

— India, 


U 

20th Century Fox Gorp. (India) British Movietonews Ltd., 87687 

Private Ltd., Metro House, U, K, 

M.G. Road, Bombay 1. 13-2-03 

U 

Filins Officer, Directorate of Films Officer, Directorate of 87688 

Publicity, Govt, of Maharash- Publioity, Govt, of Maha- Valid for Hindi am 

tra, Soohlvalaya, Bombay 32, rashtra. 13-2-03 Marathi versions. 


B/366S1 “Aata Hecoh Wajane" (Mara- 661(2) Do. 

thi), 35 mm,— India. 


Do. 


U 

37589 


13-2-03 



Part III- Sec. 4 ] 


349 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


B/30591 


Bf36683 

B/80090 


ti/ 80292 


B/30698 


B/B0602 


R/30068 


Ti/88710 


r,367H 


B/30640 

S/38641 


H/seeao 


1/38640 


“Metric Measures", 35 mm. 27H (1) 
— India. 


“Vaooination" 35 mm, — 442(2) 

India. 


“Pepper” (English), 35 mm. 555(2) 
— India. 


“Citizens And Citizens", 35 203(1) 
nun. — india. 


"VigyanMandirs”, 36 mm. — 472(2) 
India. 


“Bssti Eenton", 35 mm. — 645(2) 
India. 


“Lnila Majnu" (Hindi), 35 629(2) 
mm. — India. 


"Metro Neva Vol: 307" 36 281(1) 
mm.— U.R.A, 


“The Pioneers", 85 mm. — 799(3) 

India, U.K. 


“To Itch Hia Own" (Colour) 79 (1) 
(Cartoon) (English), 16 mm. 

— U.S.A, 


Hear Feat” (Coh >ui ) (fni'toon) 79(1) 
(English), 16 mm. — U.S.A. 


"The Basic Principles of Lub- 811(2) 
riontion" (English), 18 mm. 

—U.K. 


‘Trailer of ‘The Miraclo Wor- 47(1) 
her’ ” (English), 35min. — 

U.S.A. 


Lf 

Filins Division, Hoyt, of India, Films Divisions, Govt, of India 37690 
24-Podiler Road, Bombay 20. 

13-2-03 


U 

Do. Do. 37501 

13-2.03 

U 

Do. Do. 37592 

13-2-03 

TJ 

Do. Do. 37593 

13-2-03 


Do. Do. U 

37694 


13-2-03 


U 

Do. Do. 37695 


13-2-03 


U 

Ad Cino Exhibitors, 12 177, Prakash Trehan. 12/177, 37590 

Adrush Nftgar, \V T orli, Bom- Adrash Nagar, Worli,Bom- — 

liay IS. bay 18. 15-2-03 

U 

Motro.( loldwyn-Mayer India Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, U.S.A. 37697 

Ltd., Metro House, M. G. 

Road, Bombay 1. 16-2-08 

U 

Public Relations Officer, Oil Anthony Qilkison, U. K. . . 37098 

India Ltd,, 2G13, Parliament — — — 

Street., Now Delhi. 15-2-63 

U 

Warner I^-os. First National Warner Bros, Pictures Inc., 37509 

Pictures Inc., 42-Queen’s U.S.A. — * — — 

Road, Bombay 1. 16-2-63 

u 

Do. Do. 87600 


15-2-03 

U 

Esso Standard Eastern, Inc., Technioal and Scientific Films 37701 


10-2-03 

U 

20th Contury Fox Corp. (India) Fred Coe. U.S.A. .. 87702 

Private Ltd, Metro House, 

Bombay 1. 10-2-08 


Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu, Bengali, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kannada, 
Malayalam, 
Punjabi, Grlya, 
Assamese and 
Urdu versions. 

Valid for English & 
Hindi versions. 


Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu. Bengali, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kannada, 
Malayalam, 
Punjabi, Oriya, 
Assamese and 
Urdu versions. 


Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, 

Telugu, Bengali, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kannada, 
Malayalam, 
Punjabi, Oriya 
and Assamese 
versions. 

Valid for Hindi, 
Tamil, Telugu, 

Bengali, Gujarati, 
Marathi, 

Kannada, 

Punjabi, 

Malayalam, Oriya 
and Assamese 
versions. 


Valid for English, 
Hindi, and Bengali 
versions. 


Valid for English, 
-Hindi and Assa- 
7n ese versions. 


With triangle mark. 


under if view/ — 

No. B/30040. 

Trailer of “The Miracle Worker". 

Length applied — 52 m. 

U-Cert.No. 37702 of 10-0-03. 

Delete — 

' The shot showing the horrified face of a lorly together with her scream — f> ■ m. 

Aetna! length of the Trailer after aforesaid deletions will he — 47 m. 



350 


THE GAZETTE OE TNDTA, JUNE 22, 19C3 [Part III— 8m i 



B/30I86 Trailer of “Torin of Trial'’ 03(1) Warner Bios. first National Romns Films Produo., U, K. 
(English), 85 mm. — U.K. Pictures f no., ft3-Q(ieeii'a 

Koarl, Bombay 1. 

Endorsement— 

No, B/30480. 

film— Trailer of “Term of Trial". 

Length applied —77 m. 

U-Ort. No. 37703 of 10-2-03. 

Dek. 'te-n. - — - 

1. The shot of boya attacking a girl in tho ruin and rutting ft portion of her hair — 1 • 07 m. 

2. The shot of Graham making love to Ann a in her underclothes — 4-11 m. 

8. Shirley’s views in her slips with emphasised busts — 8 -56 m. 

Length of delet ions — 13 ■ 73 m. 


U 

37703 With triangle murk. 
16-2-63 


Actual length of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be — 03 m, 

B/30G03 “The Mirarlo Worker” 2810(12) 20th Century-Fox Gorp. (Iiulift)FrodCol.U.S.A. 
(English), 35 mm,-— U.S. A. Private Ltd., Metro House, 

M.H. Road, Bombay 1. 


A 

1350 

12-2.03 


A 

B/88721 “Two Weeks In Another 2921(13) Melro-Holdwyn-Mayer (India) John Houseman, IT, 8. A. 1857 With triangle mark. 

Town" (Cinrn)AScope)(Colour) Ltd., Metro House, M, G. 

(English), 85 mm. — U.B.A. Road, Bombay 1. 15-2-03 


Endorsement — 

No. B/35721, 

film— Two Weeks Tn Another Town (( 'iiiomasi ope) (Colour). 
Length applied — 2979 m. 

A-Cert. No. 1857 of 15-2-63. 

Delete — 


Meet No. Description undfLerigth 

IV From the scene in [>roviow-rnom, shots of a woman salaoiously running her fingers over the legs of a man sitting beside her— 1 -80 m. 

VII Shots of Andrus pushing down Veronica on the boaoh and then kissing and caressing her — 7-41 m. 

VIII From Drones of Kruger’s wedding-anniversary party, shots of Barzelli shaking hor bust indecorously while dancing— 5-28 m. 

Reduce — 

II Considerably the sequence in whioh the heroine (Barzelli) removes her dress and is seen only in bikinis and in indeoorous postures; partioiA 
larly delete the earlier portion — 13 -51 m. 

Length retained — 8-04 m. 

XI Considerably scenes of revelry in night olub In whioh Andrus gets mixed up with Oarlotta and other women and behaves in a drunken 

manner — 18-48 m. 

XII To a flash the shot of a man kissing and caressing Oarlotta passionately.— 4-67 m. 

Length retained — 0-91 m. 

Reel XIII — Considerably shots of Cirlotta being beaten up by Andrus and her breaking down, while he is driving hor away recklessly — 952 motrqs 
Length retained — 24-38 meters. 

Total — 57-87 metres. 

Length of de.etions — 57-07 metres. 

A of ual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 2921 metres. 

A 

B/30483 “Term of Trial’’ (English), 3038(14) Warner Bros. First National Remus Films Production U. K. 1858 With triangle mark. 

— U.K. Pictures Ino., 42 Queen’s 

Road, Bombay 1. 10-2-03 

Endorsement — 

No. B/80483. 

Film —Term of Trial. 

Length applied — 3, 115 metres. 

A-Oort. No, 1358 of 10th February 1903. 

Delete- 

Reel IV — The scene of Shirley being aeoosted and entering the dilapidated house and her being assaulted and her hair being cut after she Is laid flat 
on her hack by four boys. (Merely sbo w Shirley walking, bell ringing, the boys running away and the master walking) — 00 ■ 05 metres. 

Reel VIII — The shadowgraph of a boy and a girl kissing when Shirley is lying on her cot, Joan’s sentence “He’s very passionate. He likes to bite 
when the two girls are lying on the cot. — 3-71 metres. 

Reduce— 

Red II — The love m iking scene between Graham and Anna and delete his seoond kiss on her chest when she Is in her slips — 2 • 01 metres. 

Length retained — 27 metres. 

Reel l X -The pas donate love-making and kissing between .Shirley and Mitchell in the corridor in the train and delete the soeno of a fat sailor trying to 
pass through and squeeze them together, — -Regain the shot of Graham trying to restrain thorn— 5 ■ 07 metres. 

Length retained— Vi - 10 metres, 

Length of deletions — 77-44 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions mil be — 3038 metros. 


Past III — Sec, 4 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE;22, I96JT 


351' 


l 


3 


4 


ft 


7 


B/35034 


ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 

U 

"Sun nf India" (Colour) (Film 44ftft(17) Mohboob Productions Privalo Mehbonh Productions Private 30874 

Seopo) (Hindi), 30 mfn. — India. Ltd., Hill Road, Band™, Ltd., Hill Road, Bnndru, 

Bombay 50, Bombay HU, I-ll-(li 


With endorsement, 
This Certificate 
was endorsed on 
12lh Februarj , 
1903. 


Endorsement— 

No. B/35034 

Film — “Son ui Luba” (Hindi) 

U-Gert, No, 30874 of 1st Novomber, 1082. 

Alterations under Rule HI 

U.dded — 

Reel III — Gopal going to fetoli water and the scene at Rai Salieb’s residence. Rai Haheb clears iniauuderstaudiug existing between him and bur 
daughter — if 1 20 metres. 

Reel 1 1 — ,). B.’s blaokmailing Rai Saheb in connection with breaking the romanco between the Horn and lx nmla— -t - 1 ■ 1 I metres. 

Length of uuhlilwm — 89-31 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid ulle.ra.lium will be — 4531-00 metres. 

ENDORSEMENTS 

1 . Endorsement — 

No. B/30070 

Film — Banking For Go-operatives, 

U-Cert. No. 80054 of 27th Juno 1002. 

This certificate! is valid also for the Hindi, M u'athi, Gujarati, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam and Orlya versions ol the film. Actual 
length of the lilm remains unaltered. 

This oertifioato was endorsed on 15th February, 1903. 

2. Endorsement- 

No. B/38217 

Film — World By Night No. 2 (Toohuiramu) ((Jolour). 

A-Cert. No. 1348 of lfith January 1983. 

Actual length of the film after the deletions specified in the endorsement dated 16-1-1003 will be 2787 metres in eleven nets. 

This oertifioato was oudorsed on 10th February, 1088. 

3. Endorsement — 

No. B/38852 

Film — Valiant Daughters of Gujarat. 

U-CerL. No. 37451 of 7th January I9ft3. 

This certificate Is valid also lor Hindi and Gujarati version s of the film in colour. Aotual length of the film remains unaltered. 

This certificate was ondorsod on 15th February, 1083. 

CORRECTION 

Endorsement — 


No. B/30347 

Film — Good Grooming (Gol-mr). 

U-Cort. No. 37422 of 5th January 1963. 
Correction — 


This languago of the film given on face of the certificate may bo road as “English owl Bengali’ instead of ’Hindi and Bongnli’ 
by the applicant. 

This certificate was endorsed on 11th February, 1963. 

OALOUTTA 


wrongly declared 


J/430J. 


1/4305 


1/4300 


U 

“Historical Buildings of 181(1) Iranian Embassy, Now Delhi Audio Visual Service of Fine 35015 

Esfahan’’ (Oolourod) (English) Arts Administration Govern — 

16 mm,-— Iran. men t of Iran. 11-2-03 

TJ 

“JSsfahnn- A City of Alt” 181(1) Do. i’ara Film Go. Tohoran .. 35816 

(Colour) (English), 1 6 mm. — - 

Iran. 11-2-88 

TJ 

“Teheran-Capital City of Iran” 181(1) Do. Do. 30017 

(Coloured) (English), 10 mm. 

—Iran. 11-2-1068 


1/4307 


174308 


J/4309 


TJ 


“Stalo Visit To Iran of Her 
Msjosty Quoen Elizabeth 11” 
(English), 10 mm. — Iran. 

201(1) 

Iranian Embanny, Now Dolhi 

Iranian Fino Arts Institute 
(Films Division) .Government - 
of Iran. 

35018 

11-2-03 

“A I’rinoe Is Born” (English), 
10 mm.— Iran. 

101(1) 

P<>. 

Do. 

IT 

35019 

11-2-03 

U 

“The Iranian Now Year” 
(English),10 mm. — Iran. 

32(1) 

1)0. 

Dm 

. 35020 

11-2-63 


TJ - 

3/4310 "Our Young Prince, Teheran 32(1) Do. Tho Cinematographic Centre 3o021 

Spring of 1002’’ (English), Si ale Seoretaria t for Fine — — — 

10 mm.— Iran. Art*. 11-2-1068 

U 

3/4314 “A Campaign Full of Horse 125(1) Candida Films, 11/C, Free Candida Films, ll/C, Freo 35022”*3 

Power” (Coloured) (English), School St., Calcutta 10. School St., Calcutta 10. — — 

10 mm.— India. 15-2-03 



352 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, JNUE 22, 1963 

[ Tart III— ^eo. 4 


i 

o 

3 4 5 

it 

6 7 


0/4317 

0/4320 

0/432 X 

WIW. 

M/299S 


“Ainaderi Bhai Bono” (Bon- 305(1) 
gali), 35 mm. — India, 


“Shisu 8hahid” (Bengali), 319(1) 

35 mm. — India. 


'Our Pella l’mjeot I’nrt 11” 580(2) 

(English), 35 nun.— India. 


U 

M/s. Padapith, 1 10-B, Oirou- 8. Sorajaddin 1 19-B, Circular 35823 

lav Garden lloaoh Rond, Garden Beach Road, Calcutta — ... 

Calcutta 23. 23, 15.2-83 


U 

Ashutosh Nag, 4, Babu Bam Ashutosh Nag, 4, Babu Bam 3oG24 

Gheae Road, Oaloutta 40. OhoBe Road, Calcutta 40. 

16-2.63 


The Film Producers Orissa, 
Cuttaok 8. 

MADRAS 


The Film Producers Orissa, 
Cuttaok 3. 


U 

35825 


15*2-63 


Kriflhnarjuna Yudhu”(Kan- 4601(17) Vijaya Enterprises, 2 A 3, 
nada), 35 mm. — India. Areot Road, Madras 20. 


V 

Vijaya Enterprises, 2 & 3, 85422 

Aroot, Road, Madras 20. 

12 - 2-68 


“Dharmam ThalaiKoakkum” 457(0 48(18) Uevar Fdms, 1, Sadullah St., 
Tamil, (36 mm.) — India. Madras 17. 


U 

Uevar Films, , Sadullah tit., 35423 With triangle mark. 

Madras 17. — ■ — — 

18-2-1903 


Endorsement on Certifloato No. 35423-U dated tho 16th February, ]i)03-issuod to the tilm'Dharmam Thalai Kaakkum’ (Tamil — 36 mm. B. & 
Length as in the application — 4803 ■ 02 metres. 

Outs — 


1. Reel 4~Reditaa tho oar hold-up anil highway robbery to a suggestion — 3-05 moires. 

2. Reel 5 — Red'iae the scene between Hadonondam and MUlika to suggestion, deleting ail dialogues of him as a marriod mau whose wife had consented 
to his ro-marriage — 7-32 motros. 

8. Seel 7 — In the doctor’s consulting room, delete Hadaiiandam introducing Hallika and Muni an family and friend. (Sound only; replacement approv- 
ed)—" 

4. Reel 7 — Delete Hadanandam’s remark that it was matter of girl and tho doctor would give good treatment — 2 ■ 13 metres, 

5. Reel 8 — Song 4 — DelGePiotureofOhandranembracingSivakamiandliflingherilown. (Replacement approved 1'22 and 0 • 61) — 0-61 metres. 

6. Reel 9 — Delete Sadanandam explaining to the Inspector that Mallika was his family and friend. (Sound only; rcplacment approved) — . 


7. Reel 11 — Delete the scene of Kamakshl objecting to Hadanti ndetiu misbehaviour—] 7 • 37 metres. 

8. Reel 1 1 — Song 0— Delete picture of Chandran and Sivakami in close-up (6) delete her sentence ‘A’ doctor can go with anybody’ — 11-89 and 2-44) 

—14 '33 metres. 

9. Reel 12 — PeMeSadanantlamtollingMallikathathcwouldshowalsoby his action, but forthefaut that he had a frown-up daughter — 16-24 motre 
Total length of outs — 81 • 27 metres. 

Length as in the application — 4803 ■ 02 metres. 

Total length nf cuts — fll 27 metros. 

Length after cuts — 4741-76 metres. 

Add approved replacements — I • 83 metres. 

. Length ofter replacements. — 4743 - 68 metres. 

Voluntary cute — 173-10 metros. 

Actual length of the film mill be 4670-48 metres in 18 reels. 

U 

M/2908 “Somavara Vratha Mahatm 4638 - 77(18)Aruna Films, No, 140-A Aruna films No, 140-A, 36424 

Yam" (Telugu) 30 mm, — Loyds Road, Madras 6. Loyds Road, Madras 6. 

India. 18-2.63 


D. L. KOTHARI 
Chairman 

Central Board of Film Censors 




353 


Past III-Sfo. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 

MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
Central Board of Film Censors 

PART I 

Particulars of Films granted or refused certificates by the Central Board of Film Censors (Regional Office, Bomba'll) 

during the week ending 23rd February 1963 

Instructions : — B — Bombay; C— Calcutta; M— Madras. ‘U’ Certified for unrestricted public exhibition, 

‘A’ Certified for public exhibition restricted to Adults i.e. 
persons who have completed their 18th year. 


Nature of the 
Certitioulo 

granted 

and 


Application 

No, 

-Name uf tlic film willi 
langutitftf and t ‘Juiltry oi 

origin 

Length of 
the film m 
met or and 

No. of 
reels 

Name of the person or 

Co. applying for the 
eertiiicato with address 

Name of the person or 

Co. who hnN produced 
the 61m v it h address 

No. and 
dale of the 
eertitli ate 
issued or 
date on 
which 
i 1 was 
refused. 

Remarks 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

0 

7 


B, 36693 Exploring Libya (Colour) 30u(3) 
(English), 10 mm.— U.H.A. 


B/36547 Period of Adjustment (Eng- 3089( 1 1 ) 
liuli) 36 mm. — U.H.A. 


B/30692 Men, Whips And Oil (( "lour) ,320(3) 
(English), 1C min. — U.N.A, 


B/30752 British Muiielune Neva No. 108(1) 
1730 (Colour) (English), 35 
ram U. K. 


B/30732 Metro New a Vol. 308, 35mm. — 301(1) 
U.H.A. 


B/36668 A Conversation with President 045 (0) 
Kennedy (English), 16 mm. 
—U.S.A. 


B/366C6 Dynamic Sales Management 244(2) 
(Colour), (English), 16 mm. — 

U.S.A. 


B/3667 Mon In Danger (English, 16 183(1) 

mm. — U. S. A. 


Career of Salesman (Englilh) 137(1) 
16 mm. — U.S.A. 


ir 

Caltex (India) Private Lid., Riohurd Finnic ,. 3771 1 1 

Callo, House, Ballard Estaic, — — - 

Bombay 1. 10-2-63 

U 

Metro floldwy n M.») cr Tndia Metro. Goldwyn-Mayer .. 37705 

Ltd.. Metro House, 

M. G. Bond, Bombay 1. 19.2-63 

U 

Caltei (India) Vrivati Ltd., Jeriud Jaru Cant]) .. . 37706 

Caltei House, Ballard 

Estate, Bombay 1. 10-2-63 

U 

20th Century-Fox Corp. British Moviotonow i Ltd. 37707 

(India) Brie ate Ltd., Metro 

House, M. C. Hoad, Bombay 20-2-63 

1 , 


Metro Goklwjn Mater India Metro. Go khtyn-Mnyer 
Ltd,, Metro Homo, M. G. 

Rond, Bombay 1. 


U 

37708 Valid for English, 

Hindi and Ben- 

20 2-62 gali versions. 


U 

Uniltd States Information U, S. Information Agency ., 37700 

Sen uc, lC-Queon’s Road. — ■ — 

Bombay 1. 20-2-63 


U 

Nutional Productivity Council, Wilding Picture Productions 3771 0 

11-A, Janpatii, New Delhi. Inc. 

20-2-63 

U 

Do. GPO Film Unit 37711 


20-2-63 

U 

Do. Harry Foster 37712 


20-2-63 


B/30756 


Lrdian News Review No. 760 286(1 ) 
36 mm.— India, 


Films Division, Government 
of India, 24-Puddar Road, 
Bombay 26. 


Films Division, Government, 
of ludia 24-Peddar Road, 
Bombay £6. 


U 

37713 Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Tamil 

20-2-03 Xolugu, Bengali/ 
Gujarati, Mara- 
thi, Kannada 
Malayalam, Pun- 
jabi, Oriya, As- 
samese and Urdu 
versions. 


B/36746 Every Effort Courts— 35 mm. 43(1) 
India. 


Do. 


U 

Ho- 37714 Valid for English, 

— Hindi, Tamil, 

20-2-63 Telugu, Bengali, 
Gujarati, Mara- 
thi, Kannada 
Malayalam, Pun- 
jabi, Oriya 

Assamese and 
Urdu versions. 



364 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 [ Fast HI— Sec. 4 


1 2 3 4 5 CS 7 


u 

E/3042U iNvnrd of The < lonqumor, 2737(11) 20th ( Ynlury-Fox Corp. A Titanua Production 37715 With triangle mark, 

(Colour) (Cinemascope) (Eng- (India) Private Ltd.. Metro 

lissli), 35 mm. — Franco dubbed House, M. <j. Road, Bombay 20-2-03 

inU.iS.A. 1. 


Endorsement — 

Wo. 11/3042!) 

Film — “Sword of The Conqueror” (Cinemas rope) (Colour) 

Length applied — 2534 moires. 

U-Cortilicato Wo. 37715 of 20th Februnjy 1003. 

Delete — • 

Reel P, IX, XI — Wear views of direct hits of Inures, swords and arrow s— -31 ■ 61 metres. 

Reel 111 — Near-view of soldier with bleeding eyes — 1-44 metres. 

Reel -XT— — In the scone allowing Rusmunda drinking from her fnther’a skull, the close. up of the skull — 6 • 04 metres. 

Reel XII — Shot s of drunken aoldieru embracing girl-prisoners and of u girl being suggestively lifted up by a soldier— 10 ■ 46 metres. 
■Shol of AJbiono falling over llosmliuda and kissing her forcibly alter v rest ing the knife from her hand,. — 12 *60 meties. 

Ilednce — 

Reel III — To a flash the scone of torture of a man hanging upside down and being flogged — 5 ’00 metres. 

(Length retained— -HI metre) 

Reel V — To a mero flush the shot of a dead body of Fallsco with bleeding wounds — £ -82 metres. 

(Length retained — 62 * metre.) 

Reel VI — .Shots of Roawunda’fl child in prison as also his crying— 10-97 metre. 

(Length retained — IU-97 metre). 

Length of deletions ■ — 80 • 72 metro. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he 2737 metres. 


B/36430 

Trailer of "Sword of The 46(1) 

20th Cenlurv-Fox Corp. A Titanus Production 

U 

. . 37716 With triangle mark. 


Conqueror” (Cinemascope) 

(India) Private Ltd., Metro 


(Colour) (English), 35 mm. — 

France dubbed in TJ.S.A, 1. 

House, M. G. Hoad, Bombay 

20-2-03 


Endorsement — 

No. B/36430 

Trailer of “Sword of the Conqueror” (Cinemascope) (Colour) 
Length applied — 01 metres. 

TJ-CYrt, No. 37710 of 20th I’d iruary 1003, 

Delete— 


1. Shot of a man hanging upside down and being flogged — 1-08 metres. 

2. Shot of drunken soldiers embracing girls and of a .soldier lifting a girl up suggcdivcly— 8-40 metres. 

3. Shot of Alboino lying over and forcibly kissing Rusimmda — 8-42 motrCB. 

Reduce — 

4. To a flash the prolonged kiss between Roemunda and Amakhi — 2'28 melies. 

(Length retained — -45 metre.) 

Length of deletions— 10-14 metres. 

Actual length of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be 40 metres, 

U 

B/30719 Family Album 35 mm India 31(1) Bourns Limited, C/u United S.Sukhdev, UnitedFilm Arts, 37717 

Film Arts, 40-Ca.ewaji Vutel 40-Caswaji l’atel Stroet, 

Street, Bombay 1. Bombay 1. 20-2-02 


B/30099 Crown of Loveliness Colour, 31(1) 
35 mm. — India. 


U 

Bomas Limited, SteoliTOio Durga Khote Productions, 37718 

liouso, lliushaw W.iobkn India House, 1st Floor, 

Road, Bombay. Bombay 1. £0-2-03 


B/3S094 


B/30002 


B/30084 


The Expert Choice, Colour, 27(1) 
(English), 35 mm France, 


To Enrich Mankind, Colour, 213(2) 
(English), 10 mm, — U.8.A, 


The Loader, 35 mm, — India. 31(1) 


Blaze Advertising Private Tho Universal Escapement 
Ltd., Central Bank Building, Ltd. 

Bombay. 


Nationu l Product ivify Council, Jum Handy Pic.) ure 
11 -A, Janpath, Now Delhi. 


S. Sukhdev, United Film Arts, United Film Aria, 46-C.isawji 
40-CasawjI Ptel, Road, Rai el Road, Bombay. 
Bombay 1 , 


U 

37719 

20-2-03 

U 

37720 

20-2-03 

U 

37731 

20-2-03 


B/30098 Donh K.i Awaaz, (Hindi), 35 
mm. — India. 


H/30705 Do Raha (Overseas version). 
Colour, (Arabic), 35 mm. — 
Tndia. 


228(1) Nat ional Education ,md Infor- 

mation Films Ltd., National 
House, Apollo Bunder, 
Bombay 1, 

80(1) Ama PrivaLo Ltd., Canada 

Building, Ilomby Road, 
Bombay I . 


U 

National Education andlnfor- 37723 

mation Films Lid., National — — 

House, Apollo Bunder, 20-2-03 

Bombay 1. 

U 

Ama Private Ltd,, Canada 37723 

-Building, Hornby Road, — - 

Bombay 1. 21-2-03 


Valid for English, 
Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu, Bengali, 
Kannada, Malya- 
yalam and Assa- 
mese versions. 


Valid for English, 
Hindi , Tamil, 
Telugu, Bengali, 
Kanuads , Mftlaya- 
lam & Assapreso 
versions. 


Valid for Hindi, 
Tamil, Telugu, 
Bengali, Malays- 
ia m, Assamese A 
Kanna da versions 



Part TTT-Skc. 4 ] TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1 903 355 


.. — - - - - 

1 


2 

3 

4 

C 

6 


7 


B/38758 My Mission, 35 ram. — -India. 77(1) 


B/35355 Trailer of "Only For Love”, Hl(I) 
Cinemascope, (English), 3i 
inia. — Franca. 

Endorsement — 


IT 

Filins Division, tfovt. of India, Films Division, Govi. of India, 37771 Valid for Euglnli 

24-Peddar Rd., Bombay 26. 24-Peddar ltd., Bombay 2ft. — — — Hindi, Tamil, 

21-2-03 Telugu, Bengali, 
Gujarati, Marathi, 
Kannada, Muls} n- 
laui, Punjabi, 
t iriya , Assamese A 
Urdu versions, 

IT 

2ftth Century- Fox Corp. (India) Jacques Roitfeld Productions 3772ft Witii triangle nnrl.. 

Private Ltd., Metro House, — ■ ■ — 

M.<4. Road, Bombay 1. 21-2-03 


No. B/35855 

Trails? of — -“Only For Love” (Cinemascope) 
Length applied — 8ft m. 

U-Oert. No. 87725 of 21st February, 1903. 
Delete — 


(1) (SlioL of Sophie embracing Alain after tho gas explosion; (2) From Main’s dialogue addressed to Sophie and 
underlined vvords—Vour eyei, mouth and all the rent”. — .V 2ft m. 


Actual length 

of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions will be— 81 metres. 


B/38767 

The Portrait of A Croat 721(1) 
Enterprise, Colour, (English), 

16 mm. — Italy. 

Po.roleum Information, Ser- 
vice, New Delhi. 

Docuinento Films 

B/36768 

The Giant of Ravenna, Colour, 454(2) 
(English), 16 mm. — Italy. 

Do. 

Do. 

B/3S928 Spotlight On Vietnam, (Eng. 111(1) 

lish), 18 nun. — U.S.A. 

Endorsement — 

Un ted States Information 
Service, 10-Qneon’B Road, 
Bombay l. 

U.S. Information Agoney 


from Us English sub-title l he 


U 

3772ft 

22 - 2-88 

U 

37727 

22 - 2-88 

V 

37728 With triangle marie. 
28-2-03 


No. B/82928 

Film — “Spotlight. On Vietnam" (English), 18 mm. 

Length applied — 113 m. 

U-Cert. No. 37728 of 23rd February 10013. 

Delete — 

1. The words “. . . .whose rulers would impose their will upon the itepublio to the South” as spoken with reference) lo the People’s Republic 
of (North) Vietnam, — 0-89 m. 

2. The words ‘Vietnamese in hundreds of thousands have fled from tho north, leaving all they owned behind,- -1 • 42 m. 

Length «f deletions — -2-11 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he, — 11 ] metres. 


B/38747 


B '38750 


B/38530 


Your School Safety Patrol, 155(1) 
dolour, (English), 18 mm.— 

U.S.A. 


Unitod States Information Calvin Production Ino, 
Service, Ift-Queen’s Road, 

Bombay 1 . 


U 

37729 


28-2-83 


Freeway Driving Is Different, 159(1) Do, 

Colour, (English), 16 mm. — 

U.S.A. 


U 

Do. . . 37730 


23-2-03 


Triler of “Whatever Happened ftft( I ) 
To Baby Jane, (English), 

35 mm.— U.S.A. 


U 

Warner Bros. First National Tho Associates & Aldrich Go. 37731 With triangle mark. 

Pictures Inc., 42-Queen’s Ino. — — — 

Road, Bombay 1. 23-2-83 


Endorsement — 

No. B/80539 

Trailer of “Whatever Happened In Baht/ Jane" 

Length applied — 63 m. 

U-Oert. No. 37731 of 23rd February, 1983. 

Delete — 

1. All shots of pictures of a doll with broken head wherever they occur, retaining only (hose shots on which the suh-tillos have been superimposed 
— 6-04 m. 

2. Shot of Jane kicking Blanche.— 2 ■ 38 m. 

Length of deletions — 8 m. 

Actual length of the Trailer after the aforesaid deletions ■ will be — 55 m. 

A 

B/30310 Advise And Consent, Oinoma- 3,780(10) Columbia Filins of India Otto Preminger ,. ,, 13ft9 With endorsement, 

scope), (English), 35 mm. — Ltd., Motro House, M.C. — - — — 

U.S.A. Road, Bombay 1, 21-2-03 

Endorsement— 


No. B/38340 

Film — “Advise And Consent" (Cinemascope), (Panavision) 

V-Oert. No. 1359 of 21st Fehruarv, 1003, 

^rations under Hah 34 — 

Deleted— 

Feel Ill—t The scene showing tho Tnd : in Ambassador al th < Washington sooiul puly, deleting Ins dialogue pertaining to the Indian Govern- 
ment's stand in the matter ot controversial nomination. — 22-88 meties, 

Antiuil length nf the film nper the aforesaid alterations trill be — 8,783 in. 



THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, TUNE 22, 1903 


[ Part ITT— Sbo. 4 


350 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


ft 7 


B 35856 


— A 

Only 'Pof Love (Oinomasoopo), 2,275(9) 201 h Century Fox Oi>rp. Jacques Roltteld Productions 1 300 

3) mm. — Frauoe. (India) Private Ltd., Metro — — 

House, M.G. Hoad, Bombay 1. 21-2-03 


Kutlornmi- n ( — 


French with Eng- 
lish nail-titles. 
With triangle 
mark. 


No. 0/35858 

Film — 1 ''Only For Love" (French with English sub titles) (Oinom-isenpe) 

Length applied — -2,37o metres. 

A-Ort. No. J300 of 2 1st February, 1003. 

Delete — . 

Red I — Heiuark of Phillippe'tt assistant addressed to Sophie “Here are your pants”. — 1-93 m. 

Red 111 — Til the scene betweon Alain and Sophie after the gas explosion In the kitohen, — 

(i) Shot of Sophio in aoantics rushing towards Allan — 7-31 m. 

(,'() Shot, of Alien caressing her Imre thigh; (Hi) Shot of Sophio pulling her shirt over her head while embracing and ( iv ) Sophie’s remark while 
embracing Allan; "You are naked”. — 9- 14 m. 

Reel IV — Tho English sub title along with the remark of Philippe’s assistant— addressed to Sophie— “You have got to get rid of that S.O.B. 

2 33 m. 

Reel F — To the train scone, shot of Sophie taking off her dressing gown, of her bare thighs while uliwbing to the upper berth nnd of her exjKised bust 
wlu-u sho is bending over her berth. — 14-03 m. 

Alien’s remark to Sophio — “Let’s neek” — 1-04 m. 

Reel VH — In t.ho hotol-room soone, near views of Sophie’s exposed thighs before Allan kisses her in bed. — 4-57^m, 

Reel IX — From Philippe's dialogue addressed to Sophie, “He has only one Idoa-to hop into bed with you “referring to Alain”. —2-33 m, 

In the scene between Alain bidding the sliot-gun and Sophio nil abuts of Sophie undressing herself beginning with his French dialogue and the 
English sub-title “Undress upto the top-angle shot of their heads while embracing. 

Length of deletions — 90-65 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — -2,276 mm. 

Alterations under Rule. 31 — 

U 

B 36705 Ho Italia, Overseas Version, 8(1(1) Asm Private Ltd., Canada Ama Private Ltd., Canada 37723 This certificate was 

Colour, (Arabic), 35 mm. — Building, Hornby Hoad, Building, Hornby Itoad, endorsed on 21st 

Tndia. Bombay I . Bombay 1. 21-2-63 February 1963. 

Kndorsement — 

No. B 1 387 65 
Film — “Bo Raha" 

TJ-Oert. No. 37723 of 21st February, 1983. 

Alterations under Rule 31 — 

This certificate is also valid for exhibition of each of the two prints of the film in Arable with different pack shots. Actual length of each of tha 
two prints will be 88 m. and 82-30 m. respectively. 

This aerilftoale is also valid for tho English version of tho film with a differout pack shot. — 10-21 m. in length. The actual length of this version will 
be — 82 - 30 m. 


M-2909 


M-300O 


Mantbiri Kumaran, (Tamil), 
35 mm.— India. 


Savathi ICoduku (Telugu), 
35 mm, — India. 


MADRAS 

4517-00 Vittai Productions, 83-0, K.oiI 
(17) St., P liras awakkam, Madras 


U 

Vittai Productions, 03-0. Koil 35425 

Street, Puraaawakkam, 

Madras 7. 18-2-83 


U 

4420 00 Naveena Chitra, 13-Saravana Naveena Cbitra, 13-Snravona 35426 With triangle mark. 

(18) Mudaliar St., Madras 17. Mudaliar Street, Madras ] 7. — - — — 

19-2-03 


Endorsement on GerlifkaU No. 33426-lJ, dated 19th February, 1963, issued to the film 'Savalhi Koduku' [Telugu) — 33 mm., It. & W. — 


Length as in the application — 4,438-54 metros. 


Cuts— 

1. Reel 3— Song 2 — Delete shots of Seslui and Janaki embracing oach other In mid-olose-ups and mld-olose-ups. 5-17 
(Approvod replacement. — 5-17 motros). 

2. Reel 4 — Delete Ohalmohan saying ho Is like Swami Vivekananda — 0-01, 

3. Reel 7 — Delete shots of the fat policeman chasing Ohalmohan in vain. — 3 05 Mottos. 

4 . Reel 7 ■ — Delete the panning shot of the drink bottlos.— 1 - 83 metres. 

6. Red S — Delete Clinlmokan's description ‘Temporary son-in-law’ — 2-75. 

e! Reel 10 — Song 5 — Delete the entiro picture of Vanaja in tight pants. 108-68 (Re taken picturlsatlon approved, — 100- 08 m). 

7. Reel 12— Song 6— Delete (a) the entire text of the song, and (5) from the pioturieation. delete shots of (i) Vanoja jerking her bust and swaying 

hor hips; ( it ) Indications in the picture that Vaiiaja’s attendant is trying to take money, Vanaja kissing the currency notes and swooning. 
(Replacement of text and pintm-o approved— 108- 08). 

8. Reel 13 — Delete Seshu's reference to Oundaraya as ‘Court Ounda’ — 0‘ 91, 


Total length of cuts — 227 ■ 08 metres, 

Length as in the application — 4,438 metros. 

Total length of cuts — 227-98 metres, 

Length after cuts — 4,210-50 metros. 

Add approved replacements— 218*53 metres. 

Actual length of the film anil be— 4,420-00 metres in 18 Reels. 


M-2081 

Arivnli (Tamil), 35 mm. — India 

4588-03 

(10) 

A.T.K. Productions, 75j5, 
Veeraporumal Koil Street, 
Madras 4. 

A.T.K. Productions, 75JB, 
A’ecraperumol Koil Street, — 
Madras 4. 

M-3009 

Extensor Many Tailed Opera- 
tion (Kokaohromo), (Silent, 
English title), 18 min.. — India. 

142-63 

(1) 

The Medical Offioor-irt-Charge 
Leprosy Centro, Polamba- 

The Medical Offioer-in- Charge 
Leprosy Centre, Polomba- — 

(a) 


kkam, Madras. 

kkam, Madras. 

M-3009 

Tibialis Posterior Transplant. 
(Kodoehromo), (Silent, Eng- 
lish title), 19 mm,— India. 

32-01 (1) 

Ho. 

Ho. 

(o) 




M-3005 

Trailer of “Mantbiri Kumaran” 
(Tamil), 33 mm.— India. 

147-21 

(1) 

Salem Shanmuga Films, 
Mariyaman Koil Street, 
Ougai, Salem 0. 

Salem Shanmuga Films, 

Marlyamraan Koilt Street, — 
Ougai, Salem 8. 


U 

35427 


19-2-83 

A 

215 


19-2-63 

A 

216 


19-2-03 

U 

35428 


20-2-03 


Classified as Pre- 
dominantly Edu- 
cational. 


Ho. 


Part III— Seo. 4 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 


367 


1 2 

3 4 5 

6 

7 


M-SOOfl 


M-30Q2 


M-8003 


Trailer of “Ayirankalathu- 

E ayiru" (Tamil), 35 mm, — 
sdla. 

Baku Magalu, (Kannada), 35 
mm. — India. 


30-48 Master Pioturea, 14-Besant 
(1) Road, Madras 14. 


4, 538' 03 Padmini Pioturea, 15-Bala- 
(17) krishna Road, Madras 4. 


U 

Master Pioturea, 14-Beaant 35429 

Road, Madras 14. - — - 

20- 2-63 

U 

Padmini Pioturea, 16-Bala- 35430 

krialina Road, Madras 4. 

21- 2-63 


17 

NItliya Konyaka, (Malayalam) 4,472-02 Saravanabava and Unity Saravanabava and Unity 80431 With triangle mark- 

35 mm. — India. (17) Pioutrea, 20-B, Greenways Pioturea, 20-B, Greenways . — ~ 

Road, Madras 28. Road, Madras 28. 21-2-63 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 35431-U, dated 2 let February, 1963, issued to the film. ‘ N ithyahanyaka' ( Malayalam ), 35 mm — B. k IF. 
Length as in the application— 4,572-00 Metres. 


Cuts — 

1. Reel I — Delete shots of Lata in olose-up and mid-oloae-up, camera focussed on her bust, — 6-09 Metres. 

2. Reel 2— Delete shot of Lata in oloso-up when she la stitching. — 4- 56 Metres. 

3. Reel 5— Delete the side-angle shot of Nalini with her bust in oloso-up. — 2 -43 Metres. 

4. Reel 7 — Reduce to a bare suggestion the attempt of Jani to aaaaulWNalinl. — 1-52 MetroB. 

C, Reel 8 — Song 3— Delete the shots where Lata exposes hor bust— (a) reflected in the mirror; (b) bending over the well; (o) sitting on the stairs 
2- 13 Metro. (Approved replacement — 2-18 motroa). 

6. Reel 10 — Delete Lata exposing her bust where Appu Monon declines milk. — 16-45 Metres. 

7. Reel 14 — When Ravi discloses his love for Lata to Vasu Kurup, delete all dialogues suggesting Knrup prom-sing Lata to Ravi,— 18-34 Metres. 

8. Reel 15— Reduce to a minimum the dialogue between Ravi, and Vasu Kurup, deleting all ludireot references to Vasu 
aa and man having married Lata, and Vasu prompting Ravi to go to Lata whenever it is possible— 20 -71 Metres. 

9. Reel 16 — Reduce the dialogues between Ravi and Lata when she gives payasatn, deleting all proposals by Ravi for a life of pleasure with Lata 
— 18- 76 Metres. 

10. Reel 17 — Delete all suggestion (a) in Vasu’s letter which la road; ( b ) Suku’s dialogue, that Ravi and Lata should got married and live a* man 
ami wife. — -12-22 Metres. 

Total length of cuts — 101-21 Metres. 

Length as in the- application — 4.072 • 00 Metres. 

Total length of cuts — 101-21 Motres. 

Length after cuts — 4,470-79 Metres. 

Add approved replacements — 2-13 Metres. 

Actual length of the film will be — 4,472-92 metres in 17 Reels. 


M-3001 

Grahasti, (Hindi), 35 mm. — 
India. 

4,397-66 

(17) 

Gemini Arts Private Ltd., 
23-Edward Billots Road, 
Madras 4. 

Gemini Arts Private Ltd., 
23-Edward Elliots Road, - 
Madras 4. 

U 

35432 


23-2-63 

Alterations 

under Rule 34— 





M-2964/34/ 

503 

Hamarahi (Hindi), 36 mm. — • 
India. 

204-66 
(3) Addi- 
tions fc 
268-47(2) 
Voluntary 
deletions. 

Prasad Productions (P) Ltd., 
Madras 17. 

Prasad Productions (P) Ltd., 
Madras 17. 

Certificate No. 36408-U, dated 
8-1-63 endorsed on 18-2-88. 


Endorsement No. 3 under Rule 34 on certificate No. 35408~U, dated 8th January, 1963, issued to the film "Bamrahi" (Hindi), 35 mm. — B. <b W . — 
Length as per endorsement No. 2 of 23rd January, 1963, — 4,271-77 Metres. 

Voluntary deletions — 268-47 metres. 

Length after voluntary deletions — 4,013-30 motres. 

Length proposed as additions under’ Rule 34 — 264-66 Metres. 

Length after the above alterations — 1,277-86 Metres. 

Cut — 

Reel 17 — Reduce to a baro suggestion the drinking scone of Hanum&n. — 19-20 metres. 

The actual length of the film after the voluntary deletions and approved additions will be — 4,268- 66 motres in 17 Reels. 


D. L. KOTHAEI 
Chairman 

Central Board of Film Censors 






REGD. No. P-319 


360 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 22, 1963 

[ Part III — 8eo. 4 


l 

2 

8 4 5 

0 7 

ALTERATIONS UNDER RULE 34 


B/30G10 GehraDaag (Hindi) 35mm) — • 4339(1) 
—(India), 


O.P. Ralhun, 217, 0 Famous O.P, Ralban, 217-C, Famous 
Cine Bldg., Mahalaxmi, Cine Bldg., Mahalaxmi, 
Bombay 11. Bombay 11. 


U 

37701 


28-2-03 


With endorsement. 
This certificate 
was endorsed on 
2Sth February 
1903. 


Endorsement 

No. B/30510 

Film— Gehra Daag (Hindi). 

U-Cert. No. 37751 of 28-2:1903. 

Alterations under Rule 34. 

Deleted — 

Red I . — Fight scene 4-GS in. 

Court scene: dialogue of Judge etc 13-72 m. 

Red III . — Shot showing exterior of the shop 2 -48 ra. 

Entry of Mother of Shobha in hostel 14 ■ 32m. 

Reel VI .— Scene between Shankar and his younger sister regarding knitting a sweater ote. 15-24 m. 

Reel VII. — Tonga shot: from where Shankar gets into the tongs upto Ratnam ala's house exterior 5-49 m. 

Reel IX — -Talk between mother of Shobha and her sister 15 ■ 85 m. 

Scene at the platform (reduced) 4-67 tn. 

Scene of the groom’s party ooming to see Asha the birde-to-be and the scene between Shankar and Shobha in the exterior 30 - 48 m, 
Asha sitting In bridal dress and her friends teasing her G • 49 m . 

Reel XIII — full Tim's arrival at Usha’s house with the letter 2 - 44 m. 

Length of deletions 114-01 m. 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be 4204 m. in 15 reels. 

MADRAS 


M-8004 


M-3008 


Dil Kk Mandir 
mm.) — (India). 


(Hindi) (3G 


Vanambodl (Tamil) (85 mm). 
— (India). 


420G - GO Ohlthralaya, 39, North Boag 
(10), Road, Madras 17. 


4455 - 00 Kannadhasan Productions, 
(18). No. 39, Usman Road, 
Madras 17. 


Chithralnya, 39, North 
Boag Road, Madras 17. 


Kannadhasan Productions, 
No. 39, Usman Road, 
Madras 17. 


U 

35433 


25-2-03 

U 

85434 


With 

mark. 


triangle 


27-2-03 

Endorsement on certificate No. 35434 U dated 27 th February, 1903 issued to the film ‘VANAMBADI’ (Tamil) 85 mm B. & W. 
Length as in the application 4497 . 00 metres. 


Onto— 

1. Reel 1 — In the Zamlndar’s house, delete (a) the suggestion that Sundar amurthy was proouring Msena; (6) shots and dialogues of the Zamindars. 

attempted assault on Moona, leaving only the suggestion at the end. 19-00 

2. Reel 10 — Delete Qopali's sentence that he oan do “puratchi" but his wife should not, and she should oomrnit suicide by falling In a river or tank' 

—0-00. 

3. Red 1H— (a) Song 7 — Delete all the shots of the danoer in olose-up and mid-olose-up; (6) in the following scone, delete Nityauandam’s sentence lihat 

the Zamindar was in love with a lowgrade girl but he hod thousands of beautiful women;(e) delete the sentence of the Zamindar that his arms 
had embraced several girls. (Replacement 31 metres for (a)). — 48-00. 

4. Red 17 — In Sumathi's deposition, delete (a) she did not know on what charge she was arrested and learnt only when she came to the oourt; (6); 

her husband threatened Tier that he would spread the rumour that she was a prostitute. (Approved replacement 16 m. for (b). 20-00. 

Total length of cuts— 88 ■ 00 

Length as in the application — 4497 - 00 Metres. 

Total length of cuts — 88-00 Metres. 


Length after cuts — 4409-00 Metres 

ADD approned replacements — 40 - IK) Metres, 

Actual length of the film will be — 4465 - 00 metres in 18 reels. 

M-3007 Neengaoda Ninaivu (Tamil) 4411-00 Padma Films, 20, Musa Podma Films, 20, Musa 
(35 mm.)— (India). (15) Salt Street, Madras 17. Salt Street, Madras 17. 

ALTERATION UNDER RULE 34. 

M-3003/34/ Nithya Ivonyaka (Malayalam) 40-03 Saravanabava 4 Unity Saravanabava 4 Unity 
504. (35 mm). — (India). (1) Piotures, 20-B, Oreenways Pictures, 20-B, Greenways 

Read, Madras 28. Road, Madras 28. 


U 

35485 


27-2-03 


U 

3543 1 

1 This oertifloato 

27-2-03 was endorsed on 
27th February, 
1903. 


Endorsement No. 2 under Rule 34 on Certificate No. 35431 U dated 21st February, 1983-issued to the film ‘Nithya Kanyaka’ (Malayalam) 35 1 mm. 
B. 4 W. 

Addition of 40 - 03 metres in Reel No. 3 is approved. 

The revised length of the film will be — 4519-65 metres in 17 reels. 


D. L. KOTHARI 
Chairman 

Central Board of Film Censors 


