
w'» 52] nf fwsft, ufiw*, 28, 1974/4fa 7, 1896 

No. 52] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


TO UTO faR IJ55 WWI Smft $ fafld fa WHU 4fr>FR ft TO 4 TO1 SIT I 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation . 


mu II — to 3 — su-wm (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(tw dwimi wit wtfFr) urro utott ft darmuf fftr (4u vm «tor anront fit wfafsr) 
fWtn mfuftifrof am mV) fad nd ntfafqft rndn wtv wfb^uwnt 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) by Central Authorities 
(other than the Administrations of Union Territories) 


d ^urmri Mfa q w n 
arf? avirafa«c ytm from) 

TT fevsf), 11 fTOTf 7 , 1974 

an\ an. 3382 .— j? 0 ® irfVTiT 4 tror 1973 (artnfaam 1974 
5 rt 2) ^ ynr 24 = 4 ) troth e ^ fwr rtw TrfWrf 357 

TT'EtNt < r! 5£T1, 77T97R ^ <j =ii< 1 1972 vi OTm 4. 

27/0-77 1972 rWs'rN- wte fa - , ttot 

aroq- ^ ‘Nh^T 31R, 4t\ 4 . 26/| C ./o0^3r?! C ') 4^ ^7 

^trt ‘r'rq OTJ aifvpq^Rrf 4 Tfr 3 fT^rt 
4! TTiy trt trt wiww<i 4^ >?E97 $4 

aidfcr rt 4 ot>h frr 4 4 faq 'ftry q. 4fOT Jifimur 
qrf Wifa yfa; Tnt f 1 

[ 4 t 3 rt 225/02/74-0 ^ 2] 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
(Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms) 

New Delhi, the 11th December, 1974 

S.O. 3382 — In exercise of the poweis conferred by sub- 
section (6) of Section 24 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
1973 (2 of 1974). the Central Government hereby appoints 


Shri Poms A, Mehta Advocate, Bombay, as a Special Pub- 
lic Prosecutor for conducting the appeal filed in the Bombay 
High Court by the State against the order of acquittal of 
the accused (ICC. No, 26/E/66-Bombay against M/s 
Intci national Franchises Private Limited, and others) by the 
Chief President Magistrate, Bombay, in Case No. 27 /S of 
1972. 

[No. 225/62/74-AVD II] 
17 few, 1974 

V!o wro 3383, — srf^Tf 1 973 ( 1 974 ^2) 

srm 24 ^Ttjro (e) sftPt qrrfr fij ^fpr 

HTTP i tj i H I r M K1 ’rftrrtff ^ifn 4) 

wr tw rztt af/ frca pfvitf qfw % ^prr 

wr 5/70 $ i\x ^irft ^ny\ 

Vt *4^0 TT5TT rTT^TV S1TT T^PP^TT 

mi.wvt A tfr qft n^ft wm n?r ^nfr M 

trn^sm ^ i 

[^tTT 225/56/74^ 2] 

if. if. BiVr 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

S.O, 3383. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (6) of section 24 of the Code of Criminal Proce- 
dure, 1973 (2 of 1974), the Central Government hereby 


116 GI/74 — 1 


3681 


3682 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


appoints Shri S, M. Sanyal, Advocate, Calcutta, as a Special 
Public Prosecutor for the purposes of criminal appeal filed 
by the State against the order of acquittal of Smt. Rukmini, 
Patwa and Shri Kali Charan Patwa in Calcutta High Conn, 
arising out of Regular Case No. 5/70 of Special Police 
Establishment Calcutta against Smt, Rukmini Patwa and 
others. 

[No. 225/56/74-AVD. 11] 
B. C. VANJANI, Under Secy, 


*tf7t ffaWr wfa 
tfrfar 

14 W£!TT, 1974 


VT° WT° 3384. — ffakET ^TPfPT ^TT tffl fU W ftY ft 
fir *rrJ f 1 9 7 2 fVtjM firtj ^tturtt %■ 

fair 229-ftwR m ?Y -qTPT vd ufa err* *ft 

srskfa ^tCY, tmr yrrfTwrr rRt irfVVfe?* 

trftPnrE, 1951 wr nrrfa tf-Trq w arm tpkt 

ffaf^r tft Vrr arfcnr <fRT Sr wm rft ft; 

*fft qrr:, stt Tufrw* A, g^rr firY <r 

*ft, trmft w ^ Bnr Vn£ w tmr pt^fawyj mff 

fVrr ft, tfk> fVrfar irrarr qrr >ft wrtjpr wr It ft 

tht qTrmTfr % Pi u Vrf tttw *rr 

^ t; 

jet, w, t^pt ^Y am i <hp Yr tpjrct if 

*rpfPr >4t tfaRt Vt Yr IVdY *ft 

fPET % tt ftrdY tfje ^Y fTU"Fr-*r*rr qq^rT f^trn mPoh^ % 

V koi w <rr^?r mlfar & ffar tY Vr 
wmmrfa V fan ffafjpr tfrftw ft t 

[d° fa{n>f*o tfa 22/9/72(132)] 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th October, 1974 

S.O. 3384. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Chandradip Swaroop Choudhary, Village Majhnuli 
P.O Koaath, Shahabad who was a contesting candidate for 
election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from 229-Bikram- 
ganj constituency held in March 1972 has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses as required by the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made there- 
under ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after the due notice 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said 
Shri Chandradip Swaroop Chaudhary to be disqualified for 
being chosen as F and for being, a member of either House 
of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of three years from the date 
of this order. 


[No. BR-LA/229/72H32)] 


*rro *tt ° 3385. — qn:, ffai ^PT mrPr yr E*mjpr sY nrr ft fir 
1 9 7 2 it jtj fVfR fVuTT rnrr T fair mro ffafrrr % fVr 
229 - fwnr tfa- % uprrr try 
Hirrw smr^ffart q>o wro ^rr^rrp? (fa^R) 

wtv ^farffan, mr m t ftmrf mr 

ffaW^r wpff rlf vfr farr TrftFf Rt 

?; 

rfk, Td", ^^1 T^rfarR 4", "J?T frit irTT T7 

'ft, T^T ^ETTTiT^T fWR qfa T’K'-r ^RTTT faf 

fwT ft, rftr ffaWr TrpfPr qr 'ft ’rtrtpt mrr ft IV 
trt w imwiT ^ farr Vlf wYr cmr m Tftt 

ft; 

irr*, w, Vr trm 1 o-v % ir 

sft ^ trrrt Vr % jVfiY ^ 

UT fVtft TTTT Vt fqHr-T-?nTT RTTT fiTUTT TpOT^ % rTTRT 
^ fftr ffa ^ ftnr w qrtPT vt it HYt 
% krr finYfa vsfrfVr mT 1 1 

fV$R>1> 0 *To/229/72( 149)] 
ITo T^O &T, qfV* 

ORDER 

S.O. 3385,— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Satya Narain Singh Village Ghusian Khurd P. O, 
Ghusian Kala, Shahabad who was a contesting candidate for 
election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from 229-Bikram- 
ganj constituency held in March, 1972 has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses as required by the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made there- 
under ; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after the due notice 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said 
Shri Satya Narain Singh to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, h member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of n 
State for a period of three years fiom the date of this 
order. 

[No. BR-LA /229 /72 /( 149)] 
A. N. SEN, Secy. 

S.O. 338#. — In pursuance of section 106 of the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Election 
Commission hereby publishes the order dated 14 October, 1974 
of the High Court of Judicature at Madras, in Election Peti- 
tions Nos. 1 and 2 of 1974. 



3683 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT MADRAS 
ORIGINAL JURISDICTION 

Monday, the 14th day of October, 1974 

The Honorable Mi. Justice MOHAN 

ELECTION PETITION Nos. 1 and 2 of 1974 and R* 
crimination Petition No. 1 of 1974 in Election 
Petition No, 1 of 1974, 

Election Petition No. 1 of 1974 : 

R. Mohana Rangam, 

29, Barathiyar Street, 

Palavanthangal, Madras-61 . , , Petitioner, 

Vs. 


1. The Returning Officer, 

The Secretaiy to the Government of 
Tamil Nadu, 

Legislative Assembly Department, 

Madras-9. 

2. The Electoral Registration Officer, 

The Revenue Officer, Corpotation of Madras, 

Madras-3. 

3 1 he Chief Election Commissioner, 

Niivachun Sadan, Ashoka Roud, New Delhi. 

4. Thiru Khader Shu, 32, North Car Street, 

DindiguL 

5. thiru S. A, Khuja Mohidccn, 

4, Sardar Jung Garden 1 Street, 

Royapettnh, Madras-14. 

6. Thiru V. Subramanian, 

97, Swami Naicken Street, 

Chintadripet, Madras-2. 

7. Thiiu C. D. Natarajan, 

I7-B, Taylors Road, Madras- 10. 

8. Thiru S. Renganathan, 

11, Sriramnagar, North, Madras-18. 

9. Thiru G, Lakshmanan, 

40, Mnrugnppa Mudali Street, Madras-7. 

10. Thiiu John alias Valampuri John, 

47, Portuguese Church Street, 

Madras- 1. . . . Respondents. 

Election Petition No. 2 of 1974 : 

V. Subramanyan, 97, Swami Naicken Street, 

Chintadripet, Madras-2. Petitioner, 


Vs. 


1. The Returning Officer, 

The Secretary to Government ot 

Tamil Nadu, Legislative Assembly Department, 

Fort St. George, Madras-9. 

2. The Electoral Registration Officer, 

The Revenue Officer, Corporation of Madras, 
Ripon Buildings, Madras-3. 

3. The Chief Election Commissioner, 

Nirvachan Sadan Ashoka Road, 

New Delhi. 

4. Thiru M. Khader Shu, 

32, North Cai Street, Dindigul. 

3 Thiru S, A. Khaju Mohideeu, 

4, Sardar Jung Garden, hirst Street, 

Royapettah, Madras- 14. 


DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


6. Thiru C, D. Natarajan, 

17B, Taylors Road, Kilpauk, Madras-10, 

7. Thiru R. Mohanarangam, 

29, Baruthiar Street, 

Palavanthangal, Madras-61. 

8. Thiru S. Renganathan, 

11, Sriramnagar North, 

Madras- 18. 

9. Thiru G. Lakshmanan, 

40, Murugappa Mudalf Street, 

Madras-7. 

10. Thiru John alias Valampuri John, 

47, Portuguese Church Street, 

Madras- 1. . * . Respondent* 

Reciimination Petition No. 1 of 1974 : 

V. Subrahmanyan, 

97, Swami Naicken Street, 

Chintadripet, Madras-2. . . . Petitioner, 

Vs. 

L Thiru R, Mohanarangam, 

29, Barathiar Street, 

Palavanthangal, Madras-61. 

2. The Returning Officer, 

The Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu, 
Legislative Assembly Dept,, 

Madras-9. 

3. The Electoral Registration Officer, 

The Revenue Officer, Corporation of Madras, 

Madras-3. 

4. The Chief Election Commissioner, 

Nirvachan Sadan, Ashoka Road, New Delhi. 

5. Thiru N. Khader Sha, 32, North Car Street, 

Dindigul. 

6. Thiru S. A. Khaja Mohideen, 

4, Sardar Jung Garden 1 Street, 

Royapettah, Madras-14, 

7. Thiru C. D. Natarajan, 

17B, Taylor Road, Madras-IQ. 

8. Thiru S, Renganathan, 11, Sriramnagar, 

North, Madras- 18. 


Thiru G, Lakshmanan, 

40, Murugappa Mudali Street, 

Madras-7. 

10. Thiiu John alias Valampuri John, 

47, Portuguese Church Street, 

Madras- L , . . Respondents. 

Election Petition Nos. 1 and 2 of 1974 : 

Petitions praying (a) that the election of 10th respondent 
herein as one of the members of the Council of States from 
the State of Tamil Nadu, in the biennial Election held on 
21-3-1974 be declared void, and the same be set aside under 
Section 100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951; 
(b) that it be declared that the petitioner had been duly 
elected under Section 101 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, in lieu of the 10th respondent and (c) that the 
costs of this petition be awarded. 


RECRIMINATION PETITION NO. 1 OF 1974 : 

Petition stating that John alias Valampuri John, the 10th 
respondent in Election Petition 1 of 1974, suffers from consti- 



3684 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Pa rt 1 1 


tutorial disability for filing his nomination and the acceptance 
of his nomination has materially effected the results of the 
biennial election held on 21-3-1974 for the Council of States 
from the State of Tamil Nadu and praying that K. 
Mohanarangam, having secured no votes from the electorate, 
be eliminated and that he having survived m the held as a 
continuing candidate and having secured some original votes 
himself, alone, be declared under Section 101 of the Act, as 
having been elected to the last of the six seats in the Counc 
of States, and that costs of this petition be awarded to the 
petitioner. 

THE HIGH COURT DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING 
JUDGEMENT 


(2) The 10th respondent himself, at the time of his 
enrolment as an Advocate, declared his date of birth 
as 14-5-1946, 

(3j In one of the books written by the 10th respon- 
dent, there is an admission by him that his date of 
birth is 14-104946. 

(4} The Electoral Roll for the North Madras Pailla- 
menlary Constituency of 1971 mentions the age of 
the 10th respondent as 25, But that had been got 
amended with a view to enable him to file nis 
nomination to the impugned election. Since that 
amendment is illegal, the same cannot be taken into 
account. 


The above two petitions are for declaration that the elec 
the 10th respondent to the Council of States (Rajya Sabha.) 
from the State of Tamil Nadu in the biennial election hela 
on 21-3-1974 as void and to set aside the same and for a 
further declaration that the petitioner had been duly elected 
under Section 101 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, in lieu of the 10th respondent Though the petitioners 
In the two election petitions are different, since the allegations 
are identical and the evidence has been let in in common and 
both the matters have been jointly tried, they are dealt with 
under a common judgment. 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 1 OF 1974: 

The case of the petitioner js that nominations for filling 
six vacancies to the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) from 
the State of Tamil Nadu for the biennial elections were called 
for and the Notification in this behalf was issued on 4-3-1974, 
fixing the date for receipt of the nominations before 3 P. M. 
on 11-3-1974. Eleven nominations were filed and all of them 
were found to be valid on the date of the scrutiny, namely 
1 2-3-1974. The last date for the withdrawal was 14-3-1974 
And on that date three candidates withdrew their nomi- 
nations, as a result of which eight candidates remained in 
the field. Election was held on 2L3-1974 and the counting 
took place on the same day, The results were published declar- 
ing respondents 4, 5 and 7 to 10 as elected with the follow- 


ing Votes: 

Thiru Khader Sha (4th respondent) 3,500 

Thiru Khaja Mohideen (5th respondent) 3,700 

Thiru C D. Natarajan (7th respondent) 3,500 

Thiru S, Renganathan (8th respondent) 4,100 

Thiru G. Lakshmanan (9th respondent) 3,600 


Thus, the piaycr is made for the abovesaid declarations : 

The 6th respondent (Petitioner in Election Petition No. 
2 of 1974) has filed a counter-statement and it is not neces- 
sary to set out the contents of the same. 

The contesting respondent, viz, the 10th respondent, takea 
the stand that for the first time in February, 1974, on verifi- 
cation, he became aware of the fact that his correct date of 
birth was 14-5-1943, Up till then, all along, he was under the 
genuine impression that the date of birth given in the S, S. 
L. Certificate was the correct date. On this basis, it is said 
that the various school lecords, the college records and the 
iccords maintained by the Bar Council at the time of his 
enrolment, do not bear the correct date of birth, since all the 
i ecords till the completion of his academic courier arc based 
upon the date of birth as found in the $. S, L. Certificate. 

Though the book written by this respondent contains the 
date of birth as 14-10-1 946, it is only in the biographical data 
and the respondent did not furnish the said information. He 
denies that he had not completed 30 years of age, as requi- 
red under Article 84 (b) of the Constitution on the date of 
nomination. It is further denied that the acceptance of this 
respondent’s nomination is void. 

The Electoral Roll, 1971, to the North Madras Parlia- 
mentary Constituency came to be amended since he made 
a declaration on the basis that he had actually completed 
30 years 9 months and 25 days. The corrected Electoral 
Roll will conclusively prove the eligibility of this respon- 
dent to seek election and this Court cannot go into the 
correctness or otherwise of the said amendment, Inasmuch 
as no objection was taken to the acceptance of nomination 
of this respondent, it is not open to the election petitioner 
now to contend that the said acceptance was improper. 
For these reasons, the election Petition is liable to be 
dismissed. 


Thiru D, C. John alias Valampuri John 

(10th respondent) 3,700 


A reply statement has been filed by the petitioner reiterat- 
ing the allegations contained in the petition. 


It may be mentioned at this stage that the requisite quota 
to secure the election of a candidate was fixed at 3,201, 

e * The Petitioner in Election Petition No. 1 of 

1974 secured nil vote, while the petitioner in Election Peti- 
tion No. 2 of 1974 secured 300 votes and consequently, they 
were not declared elected, 


Jt is the election of the 10th respondent that is attacked, 
contending that he has not completed 30 years of age, as 
required under Article 84 (b), on the date of his nomination 
on 9-3-1974, since his date of birth is 14-5-1946 Therefore 
the acceptance of nomination is void. Consequent Vo the same 
the result of the election has been mateijally effected by the 
improper acceptance of the nomination and by the non- 
compliance of the provisions of the Constitution and the Re- 
presentation of the People Act of 195) and the Rules framed 
thereunder. 


In support of the statement that the date of birth of 
10th respondent is 14-5-1946, the following details are «iv 

(1) Various records like the School Register, S. S. 
Certificate, the College records— all of them i 
formly give the date of birth as 14-54 946. 


RECRIMINATION PETITION NO. 1 OF 1974 : 

This is a petition under Section 97 read with Section 
83 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and tho 
same has been filed by way of recrimination by the 6th 
respondent herein (Petitioner in Election Petition No, 2 of 
19/4) who has secured 300 votes. It is his case that the 
petitioner in Election Petition No. 1 of 1974 .secured no 
votes from the electorate and cannot be declared to have 
been elected under section 101 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, by this Court. The voting and the 
counting of votes for this election were as per chapters 6 
:md 7 of the Conduct of Flections Rules and the procedure 
for counting of votes has been detailed in the Schedule to 
the Conduct of Elections Rules, L96I, as per Rule*; S3 
therein. There being six scats to be filled up and five other 
candidates having secured votes of the required quota, 
were declared elected. In so far as the petitioner in this 
recrimination petition has secured 300 original votes. He 
alone should be declared elected in the event of the elec- 
tion of the fOth respondent heimr set aside, and the peti- 
tioner in Election Petition No 1 of 1974 cannot be declared 
to have been elected at all to the sixth sevt in view of the 
above provision. 

The 10th respondent, in his counter statement, denies the 
various averments made in the petition for recrimination, 
in particular, it is denied that the petitioner in Election 



3685 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


Petition No. 1 of 1974 having secured no votes from the 
electorate and no votes competent to be transferred, will 
have to be eliminated from counting itself in the hist in- 
stance. in short, according to this respondent, he is also 
a continuing candidate and merely because the petitioner in 
recrimination petition happens to be the candidate who 
secured the next highest number of votes, he cannot be de- 
clared to be elected in the event of the election of the 10th 
respondent being set aside. 

On these pleadings, the following issues were framed for 
trial : 

( 1 ) Whether election petition is liable to be dismissed 

under Section 86 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 7 

(2) Whether Annexuies I to VII are liable to be rtnick 
out for the reasons mentioned in paiagiuphs 28 
and' 29 ot the counter-statement 7 

(3) Whether the 10th respondent had not completed 
30 years of age as required by Article 84(b) of 
the Constitution on the date of Scuitiny of the 
nominations, namely, 12-3-1974 ? 

(4) Whether the election of the 10th respondent is 
liable to be declared void under Section 100(1) (a) 
or 100(1 )(d)(i) or 100(l)(d)(iv) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 ? 

(5) Whether this Court has jurisdication to enquire 
into the correctness or otherwise of the amendment 
made, on the application of the 10th respondent, 
to the 1971 North Madras Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency Electoral Roll; if it has jurisdiction, whether 
the said amendment is void ? 

(6) Whether Section 101 of the Representation of the 

People Act, 1951, applies to an election held to 
the Council of States under Article 84(4) of the 
Constitution; if it applies, whether the election 

petitioner is entitled to a declaration that he him- 
self has been duly elected ? 

(7) Is the Petitioner precluded from raising the ques- 
tion of the 10th respondents age and his not being 
qualified under Section 84(b) of the Constitution 
in the Flection Petition, by reason of his not hav- 
ing raised any objection at the time of the scrutiny 
of his nomination ? 

(8) In the event of the election of 10th respondent be- 
ing declared void, as claimed in the Election 

Petition, does Rule 81(2) of the Conduct of Elec- 
tions Rules, 1961, as to the filling of the last 
vacancy at the end' of the counting or votes, apply 
to the facts and circumstances of this case ? 

(9) Whether the 7th respondent is entitled to a declara- 
tion as claimed by him, in the event of the 10th 
respondent's election being set aside ? 

Election Petition No. 2 of 1974: 

As I said abo\e, identical allegations have been made in 
this Election Petition, excepting a further allegation that 
the records of Baptism and Marriage Register, maintained 
by the respective Churches, would also disclose the date of 
birth as 14-5 1946. 

A counter-statement bv the 7th respondent (Petitioner 
m Election Petition No, 1 of 1974) has been filed and it 
is not neccssiiiy to set out the contents of the same. 

The 10th respondent has filed a counter-statement on 
similar lines as in the previous election petition and concern- 
ing the records of Baptism and Marriage Register the stand 
of the respondent is that he is not aware of the entries 
made therein, since he did not furnish anv paiticnlais for 
the purpose of such records Any entry, which is incoiv-E- 
tent with his real date of birth, namely 14-5-1943, is denied 

On these pleadings, the following issues have been framed 
for trial * 

(I) Whcthci the Election Petition is fhble lo he dis- 
missed under Section 86 of the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951 ? 


(2) Whether Annexures I to XII are liable to be struck 
out for the reasons mentioned in paiagraph 40 of 
the counter-statement ? 

(3) Whether the 10th respondent had not completed 
30 years of age as required by Article 84 (b) of 
the Constitution on the date of scrutiny of the 
nominations, namely, 12-3-1974 ? 

(4) Whether the election of the 10th respondent is 
liable lo be declared void under Section 100(1) (a) 
or 100(1 )(d)(i) or 100(1) (d) (iv) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 7 

(5) Whether this Court has jurisdiction to enquire into 
the correctness or otherwise of the amendment 
made, on the application of the 10th respondent, 
to the 1971 North Madras Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency Electoral Roll; if it has jurisdiction, whether 
the said amendment is void ? 

(6) Whether Section 101 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, applies to an election held to 
the Council of States under Article 80(4) of the 
Constitution; if it applies, whether the election 
petitioner is entitled lo a declaration that he him- 
self has been duly elected ? 

(7) Whether paiajjraphs 35, 36(d) and 36(f) of the 

Election Petition are liable to be struck out on the 
ground that the allegations made therein do not 
constitute a con upt practice, as defined under 
Section 123 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 7 

(8) Whether paragraph 36(d) is liable to be struck out 
on the ground ibat the allegations of corrupt prac- 
tice made therein are not supported by an affi- 
davit as required under Section 83 of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, read with 
Rule 94-A of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 
1961 7 

(9) Whether the 10th respondent is guilty of any cor- 
rupt practice as defined in Section 123 of the Re- 
presentation of the People Act, 1951 7 

(10) Is the petitioner precluded from raising the ques- 
tion of the 10th respondent’s age and his not 
bein’ qualified under Section 84(b) of the Con- 
stitution in the Election Petition, by reason of 
his not having raised any objection at the time of 
the scrutiny of his nomination ? 

(11) Whether the 10th respondent has made a false 
declaration before the Electoral Registration Officer 
and if so, whether this Court can enquire into the 
same, what is the effect of such a false declaration 
if anv on the present election 7 

(12) Whether in the absence of a recrimination petition 
under Section 97, is it open to either the 10th 
lespondent or the 7th respondent to give evidence 
that the election of the petitioner would have been 
void, if he had been the returned candidate 7 

In the respective election petitions, the petitioners will 
be referred to as the petitioner and the 10th lespondent, 
whose election is sought to be impugned, will be referred 
to as the respondent. 

Exhibits P-1 to P-90 have beer, marked on the side of 
the Petitioner and Exhibits R-l to R-8 have been marked 
rn the side of the respondent. Tn addition to the above, 
I \hibits C-l to C-5 have been marked. 

Most of the documents were marked by consent. But 
some of the documents were given serial numbers and were 
marked subject to proof and admissibility, in order to 
facilitate speedy trial, and later on when the concerned 
witnesses came, thev were put to them and were included 
in the list of exhibits. The reason whv T am stating this, 
is concerning one of the FxhibiE. viz Exhibit P. 29, an 
argument was sought to be raised by Mr K. K, Venugbpal, 
learned counsel for the 10th lespondent, that the procedure 
adopted in marking the documents in the above manner 



3686 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


does not conform to the strict principles of law and it has 
been the subject matter of comment in one or two de- 
cisions of this Court But he at once hastened to add, not 
that he was now objecting to the same but only was point- 
ing out that if he had raised the objections at the time of 
giving the serial numbers to the documents, certainly it 
would not have been done so But, m so far us he had 
himself consented to this procedure for facilitating easy 
and speedy trial, he was waiving every objection Indeed 
he was fair enough to state that the waiver may be recorded 

As regards the oral evidence, the petitioner m Election 
Petition No 1 of 1974 did not let In any oral evidence at 
all and he was rest content in relying on the oral evidence 
let in by the petitioner m Election Petition No 2 of 1974 
The learned counsel for the petitioner in Election Petition 
No 1, stated before the trial commenced that the said oral 
e/idence could be treated as common to both the election 
petitions. 

On the side of the petitioner, P Ws 1 to 21 have been 
examined, while on the side of the lespondent RWs 1 
to 5 have been examined 

Issues 3 and 7 m Election Petibon No 1 of 1974 and 
Issues 3 and 10 in Election Petition No 2 of 1974 Befoie 
I deal with the various issues the well-known principles in 
deciding election matters mav be set out and I do not think, 
there is any necessity to refer to the authorities in suppoit 
of the same An election petition is not un action at law 
or a suit in equity, but is purely a statutory proceeding in 
which the lequircment of election law has to be strictly 
observed ft is a sound principle of justice that the success 
of a candidate, who has won at an election, should not be 
lightly interfered with and any petition seeking such inter- 
ference must strictly conform to the requirements of law 
But at the same time it has to be temembered that the 
policy of election law is to maintain the purity of elections 
and hence all the allegations of malpractices including cor- 
rupt practices at the time of elections should be thoroughly 
investigated 

Mr T N C Srinivasavarudachan, appearing for the peti- 
tioner in Election Petition No 1 of 1974, submits, the 
mam question m this case is whether the respondent was 
not of 30 years of age on the date of the scrutiny ot 
nominations, as required under Article 84 (b) of the Con- 
stitution, read with section 36(2) of the Repi esentation of 
the people Act, 1951 The question of improper acceptance 
of nomination does not arise whether the nomination of 
the returned candidate is void Hence it is Section 100(1) (a) 
or Section 100(l)(d)(iv), particularly the non-compliancc 
with the provisions of the Constitution that would apply, 
that is, on the date of his election, and the date of election 
being the date of declaration by the Returning Officer, the 
respondent was disqualified 

The question relating to age is one of fact and it can 
be easily decided in this case that the date of birth of the 
respondent is 14th May, 1946, or at any rate, the year of 
birth is 1946 and there are very many admissions by the 
respondent himself which are substantial evidence m view 
of sections 17 and 21 of the Evidence Act, though they 
may not be conclusive, and it is the best evidence that the 
petitioner could rely on There are signed declarations in 
several exhibits which would constitute admissions, namely — 

(1) Exhibits P7 — the application of the respondent for 
the Pre University Examination, 

(2) Exhibit P 9— the application for the B A Txami 
nation, 

(3) Fxhibit P 14 — Application for admission into the 
law College; 

(4) Exhibit P 15— application for the first BGL Fxa 
mination, 

(5) Fxhibit P 17 — application for admission into the 
Taw College, 

(6) Exhibit P 18 — application for second BGT Exami- 
nation Apnl 1972 

(7) Exhibit P 19— application for Second BGL Exa- 
mination, October 1972 

(8) Exhibit P 21— application tor admission into the 

T aw College 


[Part II — 


(9) Exhibit P 22 — application for B L Examination, 

(10) Exhibits P 23(a), (b) and (c) — applications foi 

enrolment as Advocate of the Bai Council of 

Tamil Nadu 

(11) Exhibit P 27 — Voters card filled up by the respon- 
dent foi Ihc preparation of electoral rolls, and 
paiticularly the declaration contained thereunder 

Ml the above documents were marked by consent, and 
therefore, no objection could be taken to any one of them 
In addition to the above, there are school records and 
SSLC Geitiflcute, and all of them being ante litem 
motam, should be given their full credit and value All 

these records being public records, the entries therein can- 
not be disputed, especially the Bar Council Record is of 
gicat value, since, when the respondent who was entering a 
noble profession, he should have verified as to the correct- 
ness of those entries and would not have lightly given a de 
duration The latei attempt to explain that the lespondent 
was baptised on 14-5-1943 by letting in oral evidence and 
reducing Exhibit R4 in support of the contention, cannot 
c accepted as against this value of documentary evidence 

The Birth Register foi the year 1943 was summoned in 
order to test the varocily of the statement of the respon 
dent that he was born on 14-5 1943 and the said Register 
does not contain any entry i elating to the respondent while 
the Birth Register foi the yeai 1946, in spite of the various 
atiemps by tne petitioner to obtain, has not been forthcom 
Everv possible step has been taken to secure the best 
evidence and as seen from the various correspondence, no 
effort is lacking on the part of the petition 

The oral evidence of Rev Li Rosario, RW 2, who 
speaks as to the baptism of the respondent, said to have 
been done in the year 1943, cannot be accepted at all for 
two reasons — firstly in that he is highly interested, he came 
fiom Tuticonn to Madras along with R W 3 the cldei 
brother of the respondent, and secondly, there is no con- 
temporaneous record to prove the same, and Exhibit R 4, 
the so-called Baptism Register, admittedly is not the origi- 
nal and therefor© cannot be xelied upon 

The evidence of RW5 is unworthy of acceptance He 
has no regard for truth and he goes to the extent of saying 
that he burnt the original Baptism Register in December 
1972 If this oral evidence and the documentary evidence 
Fxhibit R 4, is excluded, there is absolutely no evidence 
to rebut the evidence dfforded by the senes of various 
public documents which are obtained by the petitioner after 
great efforts and therefore the case of the petitioner has 
to be accepted This apart, the conduct of the respondent 
in having the electoral roll amended again would prove 
his eagerness to qualify himself, which qualification othei- 
wise he did not possess, and in any event, the same is not 
conclusive on the question of age seen from paragraph 
3 of the counterstatement, the very idea to contost for the 
election arose only in February, 1974, and with that object 
in view, a copy of the extiact fiom Exhibit R 4 has been 
obtained, which is against all other public records This is 
also corroborated by the oial evidence let in on the side 
of the respondent RW 1 the respondent, admits that by 
the end of February, 1974 he went to his village and when 
he contacted his brother, he told him that he was born in 
the year 1943, the same could be verified from the records 
maintained in the local church No leason has been given 
as to why such a verification became necessary Fmlly, 
it is submitted that the counter-statement is not n frank 
pleading 

Mr R Parthasarathi, learned counsel for the petitioner 
in Election Petition No 2 of 1974 adopting the above argu- 
ments, makes the following fuithei submissions with a pre- 
plan the respondent has set about the correction to the elec- 
toral 1 oil so that the said copy could be produced befoie 
the Returning Ofhcei, on the basis of which he could get 
his nomination accepted The curious featuic ot the case 
is, to obtain a certified copy of the conected electoral rod, 
not even a copy application was filed and yet the extract 
of the electoral roll is furnished to the respondent If the 
evidence of PW 18 is referred to it would clearly show 
how surreptitiously without any documentary proof therefor 
the age has been altered, though the request of the respon- 
dent was only for a change of the name This would show 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3687 


th&HlP.W. 18 would go to any extent to help the respondent. 
But for this corrected electoral roll, the respondent could 
not have filed his nomination. Though he has succeeded 
before the Returning Officer by making him accent his no- 
mination with this corrected electoral roll, this Com l is nm 
precluded from going into the same and the purity of elec- 
tion will have to be maintained at all costs. 

Exhibit R. 4 was not even put to R.W. 2 in the chief 
examination, and ultimately It fell to the lot of the Court 
to elicit from him whether that was the original of lln* 
Baptism Register, and being a true Christian, R.W. 2 obliged 
to accept that it was not the original but it was re-written, 
though he was highly interested in helping the respondent. 
His interestedness in the respondent is evident from 
the fact that he came from Tuticorin to Madras 
alongwith R.W. 3, the elder brother of the respon- 
dent and was staying with him, and above all, the telegram 
addressed to R.W. 2, requiring him to come and give evi- 
dence in this case is produced by R.W, 3, the elder brother 
of the respondent, from his pocket. 

The evidence of the R.W. 5 is unworthy of acceptance 
and the least that is said about him the better. He com- 
mitted "an unholy Act” by burning the original of the 
Baptism Register while the Canon Ln\y requires him to 
preserve the same. 

In meeting these arguments, Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned 
counsel for the respondent, makes the following submissions: 

(1) It is possible for the petitioner to have let in direct 
evidence by summoning parsons from the village or some 
relations when the event, namely the birth of the respon- 
dent, had taken place only about 30 years ago, and inasmuch 
as the same has not been let in, the best evidence has not 
been adduced. 

(2) It is the categoric stand of the respondent, as seen 
from paragraph 3 of the counter-statement, that it was only 
for the first time in February, 1974, on verification he be- 
came aware of the fact that his correct date of birth was 
14-5- 1 943 , Up till then, all along, he was under the genuine 
impression that the date of birth given in his S.S.L.C. book 
was the correct date. This, taken together with the other 
statements in paragraphs 16 to 18 of his counter-statement 
in Election Petition 1 of 1974, would clearly show that the 
mistake in age was carried forward, from one register to 
another, 

(3) The school records and the college records, in order 
that they may be admissible under Section 35 of the Evi- 
dence Act, (1) should have been maintained by a public 
servant or by a person statutorily authorised to maintain such 
records, and (ii) the circumstances under which such an 
entry came to be made and the source of information tor 
making such an entry should be given and In so far as 
the same has not been done, they are of no evidentiary value 
at all. The school that maintained Exhibits like P. 80 and 
P. 81, admittedly is a private school and there was no statu- 
tory duty to maintain them; therefore they cannot be relied 
on, ay has been held a Gopalan v. Kantian (14E.L.R, 458), 
This apart, the circumstances under which the entry relating 
to the date of birth of the respondent came to be entered, 
or the person who gave the information, has not been exa- 
mined, since the application form for admission, which 
would have furnished the source of information, is not avail- 
able. P.W. 8, the Headmaster of the S, Marys: Elementary 
School, admits that he did not maintain Exhibit P. 80. Nor 
does he have any personal knowledge as to how and when 
those entries were made. It is further admitted bv him that 
he is not aware of the fact as to who made an application 
for admission into the First Class. In a similar case reported 
in N. Sankara Reddy V. Yashoda Reddy (13 ELR. 34) it 
was held that in the absence of the source of information, 
the school register should not be relied on and the said 
decision fully supports his submission. 

(4) Since this mistaken date of birth came to be entered 
in the S.S.L. Certificate and College Records and Bar Council 
records, their probative value is little, though they may bo 
public records. 


(5) The Marriage Register, Exhibit P. 29, was summoned 
to be produced in Application No. 2095 of 1974 and that 
mentions Rev. Fr. N. A. Joseph or Rev. Fr. Swaml But 
neither has been examined to prove the contents of these 
documents, Nor did they produce the same, but it was 
produced by another person. Besides, it is the signature of 
R.W. 3 alone that was marked and in so far as the other 
entries have not been marked, they cannot be looked into, 
especially the date of Baptism. If the petitioner was keen 
on felying on this document, he should have proved the 
same by letting in evidence as to who made the various 
entries, more so, when an objection was raised to its ad- 
missibility and the persons who could have proved these 
entries were available. In elaborating this submission, it is 
contended that in so far as Exhibit P, 29(a), the signature 
alone has been marked, it should be held that the signature 
has been proved. In such a case, the ratio laid down in 
Mndholai Singhu v, Asian Assurance Co Ltd., and others 
(A.T.R. 1954, Bombay, 305) and Asa Ram v. Emperor 
1 A.T.R. 1933, Allahabad, 593) would apply. The probative 
value of the marriage Register concerning the entry relating 
to baptism is limited, since the object of maintaining the 
Register is the registration of marriage and not baptism, 
and whatever is not required to be filled will not be relevant 
under Section 35 of the Evidence Act. G.O. No. 40, Eccle- 
siastical, dated 30th June, 1924, as seen from the Appendix 
set out at page 864 of the Gazette, does not contain any 
column relating to baptism and if that was so, the same was 
not required to be filled up, and any form which does not 
conform to the statute canot be relied upon. Nagavasami 
Naidu and others v. Kochadai Naidu and others (A.T.R. 
1969, Madras, 329) is an authority for this proposition, 
Likewise, the decision reported in Maniklal Shah v. Hiralal 
Show (A.T.R. 1950, Calcutta, 377), Moreover, as admitted 
by the petitioner himself, this is an altered entry, which is 
seen by a mere look at the entry, and the Petitioner should 
have explained the circumstances under which the alteration 
came to be effected, and in this view also the non-examina- 
tion of the persons who were in charge of maintaining these 
records and registers becomes very vital. 

(6) Though the Birth Register for the year 1943 has been 
summoned, it can be relied on only if it contains an entry 
relating to the date of birth, since the absence of an entry 
cannot be relied on. It has been repeatedly held so in many 
cases and two of them would be sufficient for this purpose, 
viz., The Queen Empress v, Cress Chunder Bancrjee (I.L.R. 
10, Calcutta, 1024) and All Nasir Khan v. Manik Chand 
and another (I.L.R. 25, Allahabad, 90 at 100). Nor can 
It be concluded that merely because there is no entry in 
the 1943 register that the respondent was not born in 1943, 
since there is every likelihood of the birth not having been 
reported at all and the admission of P.W. 13, the Sub-Regist- 
rar, would show that the Village Munsif fills up the Register 
only if births and deaths are reported. The non-avail ability 
of the 1946 Register does not In any manner affect his case. 

(7) Exhibit P. 28 cannot be pressed into service against 
the respondent, since the case of the respondent is, he did 
not sunply the information relating to the birth to be in- 
corporated in the biographical sketch. The evidence of R.W. 
4 is specific in that the respondent found fault with R.W, 
4 for having uublished the wrong month. This evidence is 
consistent with the case of the respondent, as set out in 
paragraph 3 of his counter-statement (hat all the while he 
was labouring under the misapprehension that his date of 
bu<h was only 14-5-1946, unaware of the real date of birth, 
which is 14-5-1943, It is not uncommon in this country to 
give wrong dates of birth and that is why in the State and 
Subordinate Services Rules, Rule 49(b) specifically provides 
for the procedure for the alteration. Likewise, Rule 145(3) 
of the Railway Publishment Code, Vol. I, aLo enables a 
railway servant to have his date of birth altered. As laid 
down in Rrij Mohan Singh v. Prlya Brat Naraln Sinha and 
others (i) A.T.R. 1965 (SC) 282, the present case should be 
viewed in that back-ground. If the mistaken date was car- 
ried forward, as spoken to by R.W. 1 from one record to 
another, It cannot be contended that these records should be 
accepted, on the contrary they have little evidentiary value. 

(8) Tn the instant case there is clear oral evidence of R,W. 
2 that the Respondent was baptised in the year 1943 and he 
was an infant, one week old. He speaks from out of his 
memory about this baptism, since bis father was a catechist 



3688 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1 974/P AUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


and the family is a prominent one and every man remem- 
bers important events In his life and this being an impor- 
tant event, he happens to remember. There is no reason as 
to why ins evidence should be rejected and the so-called 
intercstedness cannot be shown when he is a person associated 
with the Church and it is established that he was the only 
Parish Priest in the crucial year, namely, 1943. 

(9) The failure on the part of the Petitioner to examine 
Rev. Fr. kaguo, who, according to the Petitioner baptised 
the Respondent in the year 1946 calls for serious comments 
Even though Rev. Fr. Kagoo was not well enough to attend 
the Court, the Petitioner ought to have at least taken steps 
to examine him on commission and the failure to do so would 
give a direct lie to the cage of the petitioner that he was 
baptised only in the year 1946. 

From all these it could be safely concluded that the 
heavy burden on the petitioner that the Respondent was 
disqualified, not having completed the age of 30 on the 
date of scrutiny of the nominations, has not been discharg- 
ed at all, more so, when the source of information of the 
original date of borth is not known, which wrong date has 
been carried forward in all the subsequent records till the 
Respondent came to be aware of his correct date of birth 
in February, 1 97 4. 

I will now proceed to deal with the merits of the respec- 
tive contentions. Since more than the oral evidence it is 
the documentary evidence that has a great bearing on these 
issues, they may be taken up first. 1 may also add that in 
view of the Large volume of the documents, it is idle to 
contend that the petitioner ought to have let in oral evidence 
by examining the villagers or relatives, who could have 
spoken directly from their knowledge. 

School Records : 

(i) Exhibit P. 80: This is the register of admission and 
withdrawal from the year 1948 of R.C, St. Mary’s School, 
Ovari, which was produced by the Headmorter, P W. 8. 
These records being official records, would be normally ad- 
missible in evidence, but according to Mr. Venugopal, the 
learned counsel for the Respondent, they are Inadmissible 
for two reasons. Firstly the school, viz. R. C. Mary’s 
School Ovari, is admittedly a private School and there was 
no statutory authority for the school to maintain the ad- 
mission register. Secondly, "the application form for admis- 
sion into the School has not been produced, in the absence 
of which it is not possible to prove whether the correct date 
has been given, while in all probability, a lower age might 
have been given, as it is not uncommon in this country to 
give the lower age at the time of entering the school. He 
relies upon certain decisions in respect of the above sub- 
missions and I vvill consider each one of them. In Gopalan 
v. Kannan (T) 14 B.L.R. 458 — concerning an admission re- 
gister of a private aided school, it wag held— 


iA A.l.R. 1971 (SC) 1920 it wag held thHt the provisions 
jor recognition or aid to prvate schools arc not statutory 

rules so as to control the relations between the Manage- 

ment of the Schools and its teachers. On this basis it is 
contended that even if this private chool has been receiv- 
ing aid from the Government of Tamil Nadu, that would 
not mean they were clothed with the necessary statutory 
authority to maintain a register. I am unable to agree with 
the above submissions. Though the school is not a public 
school, u hus been enjoyed statutorily to maintain these re- 
cords. That would be evidence from the following notifica- 
tion and tho provisions of Tamil Nadu Elementary Educa- 
tion Act (Tamil Nadu Act VIII of 1920). The effect of 

Notification is to make elementary education compulsory. 
The Notification embodies in G,0. Ms. No. 2009, Educa- 
tion, dated 1 5th September, 1947, published in Part 1-B of 
the Fort St. George Gazette dated 30th September 194"/ 
(Notification No. 244) runs as follows: — 

Fort St. Geoige Gazeite Part 1-B dated September 30, 

1947. 

464 Education Department. 

Introduction of compulsory elementary education 

Certain villages in Tinnevelly District. 

(G.O.Ms. No. 2009, Education, 15th September, 1947). 

No. 244. 

Under Section 46 of the Madias Elementary Education 
Act, 1920 (Madras Act VTTI of 1920), His Excellency the 
Governor of Madras hereby notifies the resolution of tho 
District Board. Tinnevelly, specified in the schedule below, 
which has been accepted by the Government of Madras 
under Section 45(2) of the said Act, and directs that the 
provisions of Sections 47 to 51 (both inclusive) of the said 
Act, shall come into force within the areas to which the 
said resolution applied with effect on and from the 15th 
October, 1947: — 

SCHEDULE 

Resolution of the District Board, Tinnevelly, regarding 
the introduction of compulsory elementary educa- 
tion in certain villages in the district. 

Resolution No, 1 dated 19th August, 1947. 

Resolved that elementary education be made compulsory 
for all children of school age in the following villages: — 

Name of centre (including hamlet) Revenue village. 

* * * * 

17. Karmsuthu Ovari— Kundal, Revenue Village. 

Karikoil and Ovariparnvakudi 


"The rules for recognition and rules for aid, contained 
in G. O. No. 1903 of the Madras Government, 
dated the 2 1st August, 1939, under which admission 
registers arc kept by private aided schools, have 
not been previously published as required by Sec- 
tion 56 of the Madras Elementary Education Act, 
1920, and lb- G O. does not give any indication 
that the rules were framed in the exercise of anv 
statutory power by the Government of Madras, 
These rules are not therefore, statutory rules and 
cannot be regarded as daw’ within the meaning of 
Section 35 of the Indian Evidence Act. Entries in 
the ndmhion registers of private aided schools kept 
under these rules, ar C therefore, neither entries made 
bi* nubfir servants in the dischaige of duty nor are 
they made in performance specially enfoined by the 
‘the Jaw’ of the country , and as such section 35 
oF the Evidence Act is not applicable to them, and 
they arc not relevant facts " 

Again, it is stated in Re Siiam Redd! (I) AJ.R. 1960 
Andhra Pradesh 253, at page 256 that where the entries 
were made bv employers, not of a private school but of a 
Municipal High School under Rule 52 of the Madras Edu- 
cational Rides, every ^ hool is rearmed to keep a RegR^r of 
Admissions, and therefore it is an official register and the 
same would be admissible under Section 35 of the Evidence 
Act In Reqinfl v. St. Aloysius Higher F/ementary School 


18. Kuttam— Fllaiunai, Thoppuvxillai, 

Valluvanvilai, Kunjavilai, 

Kuduthavilai, Vemmanangudi, 

Chinnathalai and Ovari. 

In Nangnneri Taluk of Tirunelveli District occurs the 
village Ovari. The result of this will be, the school R.C, 
St. ^Mary's school, Ovari, is enjoined under that statute to 
maintain such of these records which are required under the 
i ulcs. 

Ri ,T ' 3 made under Section 14 of Act VTtI of 19-20 reads 

ag follow* 

“No pupil shall be newly admitted except on an appIL 

cation made in the form in Appendix 2 which must 
be signed by his guardian, All such applications 
shall be filed separately i i the records of the school". 

This would obviously mean that an application form for 
admission In the school should have been made by the 
parent or guardian of the Respondent. That form Is set 
out in Appendix 2 and column 4 relates to tho 'date of birth*. 
R contains a statement “1 certify that the information given 
above is correct . Necessarily therefore, the entries 

in Exhibit P -80(a) had come to be made on ihe basis of the 
information furnished in the application. In spite of all the 
best efforts of the petitioner to secure this application form 



Sec, 3(h)] 


3689 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 


lor admission, the same has not been forthcoming. There- 
fore, it cannot be contended lhat the failure to produce the 
said application toim would have the ellect of rendering 
the entnes in the admission registei unacceptable Summons 
was taken out in Application No 1891 of 1974 to produce 
the application fuim and the admission register, but one 
of them viz , the mi mission registci alone lias been produc- 
ed PW {■ the i iLsent Hcmlmastci of the elementary 
school, Ovtn stales in answei to one of my questions that 
the application foi admission is not available He lurthei 
states that the register, l \hibit P 8, is one of the form main- 
tained under the Educational Rules preset ibed by the Gov- 
ernment This would necessatily mean Rule 3 set out above 
It is fmthei sided by P W 8 that under Exhibit P 80(b) 
and (c), the signatuies of the Deputy Inspectors of Schools, 
uic found in teken ot having checked and inspected these 
entnes 

(n) Exhibit P 81 —Rule 5 fiamed under Section 44 
states ’ — 

"A school record sheet shall he maintained for each 
pupil in the school by the Headmaster m the form 
In Appendix 3’ 

Appendix 3 set out the form relating to the Record sheet, 
there is a column relating to date of birth and clause (i) 
states ■ “the date of btrth should be taken from the appli- 
cation for admission " Clause (iv) constitutes interesting reading 
and it is as follows 

“(iv) The Deputy Inspector of Schools should sign in 
the remarks column whenever he scrutinises the 
recoid sheet The head master should also sign in 
the remarks column in token of the correctness of 
the entnes made in his school when the record 
sheet is tiansfened to the Headmastei of another 
school" 


Exhibit P 81 is the tecord sheet maintained under Rule 5 
and it has been signed by the Headmaster Both the above 
records contain the date of birth of the Respondent as 
14-5-1946 These entnes are, therefore, made by persons 
in the performance of duty specially enjoined by law and 
these two would constitute official legisters within the mean- 
ing of Section 35 of the evidence Act The decision in 
Gopalan v Kannan (1) 14 FLR 458 at page 463 relates 
to a case where it was found that there was no statutory 
authority at all, since the law which enjoined the keeping of 
the admission register was GO No 1903, Education, dated 
21st August, 1939, which did not have the force of a 
statute This is because the rules for recognition and aid 
under which the said G O was issued were themselves 
merely administrative Instructions From this point of view 
the decision in Inre Siram Reddi (1) AIR i960 (AP) 
253 at 256 at page 256 is of little assistance to the Res- 
pondent A, gain the decision m Kumnn Regina v St A 
Loysius Higher Elementary School^ AIR 1971 (SC) 
1920 has no bearing on this issue since that related to the 
rules relating to recognition and aid which were held to be 
non-statutorv m charactei In the instant case the rules 
made under the Flementary Fduration Act icquire the main 
tenance of the admission registei much more so, the record 
sheet 

N Shankara Reddi v Yashoda Reddi^ 13 ELR 34 is 
more or less a similar case in which also the question arose 
whether the respondent had completed the age of 30 to 
qualify herself to be elected as a member of the Rajya 
Sabha In dealing with similai recoids the Election Tribunal 
said — 

“These entries m the admission registers of the various 
educational institutions in which the 1st lespondent 
studied constitute the only tangible evidence adduc- 
ed on behalf of the petitioner As they are entnes 
made b\ pubbe servants in dipcharge of their offi- 
cM duties in the official registers they are ccitainly 
relevant with mi the meaning of section 35 of the 
Indian Fviderrce Act They arc admissible in evi 
dcnce to prove the truth of the facts entered as 
well as the fact that the entnes were made by 
the raitieuhr officers Theie is a piesumption that 
when a pupil is admitted into the school he was 
accompanied by some close relative of his who 
116 G of 1/74—2 


must have been aware of his age It is on the 
strength of this presumtpion that an entry regard- 
ing the age of a particular pupil in the school Re- 
gister is held admissible See B Kalaiam S Bhag 
Singh v Fazal Bari Khan and Others (AIR 1941 
Peshawar “38—194 1 C 824) But in this case we 
arc in the dark as to the persons who caused the 
entnes to be made The entnes in the admission 
registers of the Queen Mary's College and the Law 
College must obviously have been based upon the 
entry in the admission register of the Middle School 
at Cuddapah The petitioner ought to have sum- 
moned for the application made on behalf of the 
1st Respondent for admission into that institution. 
This register by itself does not show who it was 
that got the 1st respondent admitted into that insti- 
tution The mere entry of the date of birth m the 
records of educational institutions does not seem to 
be sufficient, especially where the source of infor- 
mation with regard to the date of birth is not 
known It has been laid down by the Calcutta 
High Court in Rajah Janaki Nath Roy Others 
v Jyotish Chandra Acharya Chowdhry (AIR 1941 
Cal 41 TLR 1941 Cal. 234) that the statement in 
the school register about the age of a person, t in 
the absence of evidence to show on what materials 
the entry in the register about the age of that 
person was made, has not much evidentiary value. 
This principle was followed by the Punjab High 
Court in Jagannath v Motiram and Others (AIR 
1951 Pun 377) As has been observed by the 
T ahoie High Court in Mohammad Hassan Safdar 
Mlrza and Others (AIR 1933 Lah 601 — 144 I. C 
45) it is very common to make out a person en- 
tering into a school to be younger in age than ho 
is and as such the mere entry of the date in the 
records of educational institutions is not sufficient 
to rebut the very strong evidence afforded by a 
birth register The same High Court held in Asa 
Nand v. Gian Chand (AIR 1936 Luh 508: 1964 
IC 731) that entries In school registers are of 
little value as evidence of age ” 

It may be noted that in that case the question arose 
whether the birth register, which is an official register kept 
by a public servant in the discharge of his official duties 
should be preferred to a school register. In that connection 
it was stated that the mere entry of date of birth In the re- 
cords of educational institutions would not seem to be 
sufficient, especially where the source of information with 
regard to the date of birth is not known It was also com- 
mented upon saying “The petitioner ought to have summon- 
ed for the application made on behalf of the first Respon- 
dent for admission into institution The register by itself 
does not show who it was that got the first respondent ad- 
mitted into that institution ” In the present case, as I have 
observed earlier. Application No 1891 of 1974 was taken 
out for the production of the application form for admission 
into the^ school But P W 8 m more than one place says 
that it is not available So, what is it that the petitioner 
could do about it? If the application form had been pro- 
duced the source of information could have been easily 
verified But for some strange reasons it is stated that 
the application form is not available Jn such a case one is 
entitled to draw the presumption that the admission register 
was based upon the information furnished in the application 
form for admission There is nothing on record to show 
that the correct date of birth was not supplied and It cannot 
be said that the admission was made with the possible motive 
for incorrect statement The submission of the respond- 
ent that it is not uncommon in this country to give lower 
age Is too broad a statement to warrant acceptance and ab- 
solutely no evidence, either oral or documentary has been 
let in to 'how that Lower age was given Neither the res- 
pondent TRW T) for his elder brother (R W 3) has stat- 
ed so tn their oral testimony 

Nor again am T impressed with the argument that merely 
because Section 49 fb) of the State and Subordinate Service 
Rules or rule 145 of the Railway Establishment Code, Vol I, 
provide for alteration of date of birth, in every case it must be 
presumed f hat a wrong age has been given Each case will 
depend upon the facts and circumstances which are pecu- 
liar to itself. 

(iii) Exhibits P, 1 to P 3) Exhibit P-1 is the admission 
register of St Xavier’s College School, Palayamcottah Entry 



3690 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II™ 


No 4462 relates to the respondent. That contains the date 
of birth as 14*54946. In the column ’‘Whether an E.S.L.C. 
(Col. 8)'’ it is stated , E.S.L,C./34833\ The said E.S.L.C, 
has been marked as Exhibit P-2. That again contains the 
date of bath as 14th of May, 1946, while the admission 
to St. Xavier’s School. Pulay&mcottai, itself is based on the 
application foi admission, Exhibit P-3. It is important to 
note that it is a form prescribed under G.Q. Ms. No, 2513, 
Education, dated 8th September, 1950. Column 2 relates 
to date of birth. Thut states 14th of May, 1946, Exhibit 
P-3 has been signed by the guardian (whose name I am not 
able to make out) and the declaration therein is a follows : 1 
declare that the statement is correct". Even assuming that 
Exhibits P-80 and P-81 are not admissible in evidence, the 
thiec documents exhibits P-1 to P-3, are of great evidentiary 
value, since they are public documents, especially Exhibit 
P-2, the E.S L.C„ and PW, 20, P.V, Abbu Pillai, in the 
Secretary to the Commissioner for Government Examinations, 
and he says that Exhibit P-2 has been signed by Rama 
Prabhn. the then Secretary, and the certificate has been 
issued under the authority of the Government. 

(iv) Exhibit P-4, Secondary School Leaving Certificate and 
Exhibit P-50, the copy of the Gazette. Next comes Exhibit 
P-4, that S.S.L.C. book. This has been produced by the 
respondent and has been marked by consent. This con- 
tains the date of birth as 14-5-1946. In my view this is of 
the highest evidentiary value. Exhibit P-5u is the copy of 
the Fort St. George Gazette dated 19th February, 1964, At 
page 379, the entry relating to the respondent is found. 
There again the date of birth is noted as 14-5-1946, This 
document is undoubtedly admissible and the genuineness of 
this document cannot be questioned in view of Section 81 
of the Evidence Act. Subsidiary Rule 5 of the Rules fram- 
ed by the S.S L.C. Board with the approval of the Gov* 
emment, reads as follows : 

“When the Secondary School Leaving Certificate Is 
opened on behalf of the pupil care should be taken 
to ascertain the correct date of birth and enter 
that dote in the Secondary School Leaving Certi- 
ficated 


mission to B.L. Class signed by the respondent, markedly 
consent and spoken to by PAY, 6, the Director of Legal Stu- 
dies. Exhibit P-22 is the application for B.L. Degree Examina- 
tion, signed by the respondent, marked by consent and spoken 
to by P,W. 5 the Registrar of the University. AU these docu- 
ments are public documents maintained in the discharge of 
official studies and they arc admissible under Section 35 of 
the Evidence Act. I have not been shown any reason to 
reject them. 

Bar Council Records. — Exhibit P-23 is the application of 
the respondent before the Bar Council. Column 4 of 
Exhibit P-23 states : “what is your (a) age and (b) date of 
birth?" The entry by the respondent reads “27 years" as 
against column (a) and “14-5-1946" as against column (b). 
As against the column “Proof of date of birth— S.S. L-C. 
Book to be produced" It Is stated “S.S.L.C- Produced". The 
declaration underneath the form says, “I declare that the 
facts stated above arc true to my knowledge". Exhibit P- 
23(b) is the S.S.L.C. extract submitted along with the 
application. Exhibit P-23, which has also been signed by the 
respondent on 23-7-1973. These documents were marked 
by consent and have been spoken to by P.W. 4, the Secre- 
tary of the Bar Council, This is a statutory form, on the 
basis of which he has been enrolled as an Advocate under 
the Advocate Act. This is one of the important pieces of 
evidence which clearly establishes the date of birth of the 
respondent as 14-5-1946 and it has great evidentiary value. 

Fxhibit P-27 is the Voters Card and under Exhibit P-27 
(b) a declaration has been signed by the respondent as 
the head of the family mentioning his age as 28 years. The 
said document has also been marked by consent and spok- 
en io by the Electoral Registration Officer P,W. 18. 

Book — "Sila Uratha Sinthanaigal". — Exhibit P-87 is a book 
written by the respondent and it is admitted by him in evi- 
dence that he not only wrote this book but it has also been 
published by him. From the passage occurring at page 18 of 
this exhibit it can be gathered that the respondent was bom 
in the year 1946 and this passage was specifically put to 
R.W, 1 (the respondent). 


Therefore, as enjoined under this rule, care haa been taken 
to enter the correct date of birth. The S.S.L.C., coupled with 
the Gazette publication Exhibit P-50, concludes the issue 
relating to the dato of birth of the respondent against him. 


College Records. — Exhibit P-5 is the transfer certificate 
issue from the St, Xaxier High School and P.W. 7 states 
that this certificate is one prescribed under the Educational 
Rules, Exhibit P-5 shows that the certificate has been re- 
cognised under the Madras Educational Rules. This was 
produced at the lime of the respondent joining the St. 
Xavier’s College, Palavamcottai, on the basis of which Ex- 
hibit P-6, the admission register, comes to bo maintained by 
the College in the routine course of administration. Exhibit 
P-7, the application form of examination for the Pre-Uni- 
versity Class, has been signed by the respondent and the 
same has been marked by consent and the same l's spoken 
to by P.W. 5, Exhibit P-8 is the admission register spoken 
to by P.W. 9. Exhibit P-9 is the application 
form for examination for the B.A, Degree signed by the 
respondent, marked by consent and spoken to by the Regist- 
rar of the University of Madras, P.W. 5. Exhibit P-10 is 


the transfer certificate, marked by consent and spoken to 
by the Principal of St. Xaxier ’s College, PalayamcottaJ, P.W, 
9. Then Exhibit P-13 is the admission register for joining 
the first year BGL Spoken to by the Director of Legal Stu- 
dies, P.W, 6, marked by consent. Likewise, Exhibit P-15 
is the application for admission, signed by the respondent, 
Exhibit P-14 is the application for examination signed b} 
the respondent, marked by consent and spoken to by the 
Registrar of the Madras University, P.W. 5. Exhibit P-lf 
is the admission register for the second year BGL. Claw 
marked by consent and spoken to by P.W. 6. Exhibit P-U 
is the application for admission for the second year B.G.L 
Class signed by the respondent, marked by consent anc 
spoken to by P.W. 6. Fxhibit P-18 is the application foi 
the second B.G.L Examination, April 1972, marked b] 
consent and spoken to bv P.W. 5, Exhibit P-19 is the appli 
cation for the second S.G.L, Examination October, 1972 
signed bv the respondent, marked by consent and sponken t< 
by the Registrar, P.W. 5. Exhibit P*20 is the admlssioi 
register for the B L Class, marked by consent and spokei 
to by P W,6. Exhibit P-21 is the application for ad 


Many of the above documents contain signed declarations 
by the respondent and they will constitute admissions and 
they are substantial evidence in view of Sections 17 and 
21 of the Evidence Act, though they may not be conclusive 
and the various decisions relied on by the petitioner fully 
support him. These documents nre Exhibits P-7, P-9, P-14, 
P-15, P-17, P-18, P-19, P-21. P-22, P-23 (a), (b) and (c) 
and 27(a) and (b). In this category can also be in- 
cluded Exhibit P-87, though it does not contain a declara- 
tion, since it is admitted by RW. 1 that the book was written 
and published bv him. As rightly submitted on behalf ot 
the petitioners the admission is the best evidence the oppo- 
rite^ party can rely upon. In respect of this submission, the 
decision in Chandra Kunwar v. Chaudhury Narpat Singh (1) 
(T.L.R. 29 (Allahabad) 184) is cited before me. In that 

the Privy Council has held at page 194: 

“The proof of this admission shifts the burden because, 
ns against the party making it, as Baron Parke says 
in Saltterie v. Poolev— ‘what a party himself ad- 
mits lo be true may reasonably be presumed to 
be so". 

Another case cited in this behalf is Narnyan Bhagwantrao 
Goswvi Balaiwale v. Gopal Vinavak Gosan and others (1) 
fA.LR. 1960 (SC) 100= 1960 ISCR 773), At age 784 of 
the report. Their Lordships of the Supreme Court have 
held: 

“An admission is the best evidence that an opposing 
party can relv upon and though not conclusive k 
decisive of the matter, unless successfully with- 
drawn or proved ennoneous" 

Lastly the decision in Bharat Singh and others v Mat 
Bhagirathi 2 (A.TR, 1966 (SC) 405 at 410) is relied on. 

"Admissions are substantial evidence by themselves in 
view of Sectioas 17 and 21 of the Indian Evidence 
Act, though they are not conclusive proof of the 
matters admitted,” 

These admissions can undoubtedly be used as against the 
respondent and in the absence of any evidence to the con- 



3691 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


trary, which is so in the present case, their evidentiary value 
is of the highest order. All that the respondent states with 
reference to these documents is that the mistake in the entry 
in the second register regarding the date of birth has been 
carried forward from one record to another, and any 
document which contains an entry relating to his date of birth 
other than 14-5-1943 is incorrect. A similar thing happened 
in N, Sankara Rcddi v, Yashoda Reddif 1 ) (13 E.L.R, 34) 
also. In his submission, the case on hand should be viewed 
in the background of the decision reported in Brij Mohan 
Singh v. Priya Brat Narain Singh and Othcrsf 2 ) (A.I.R, 
1965 (SC) 282), where also a wrong entry made in the ad- 
mission register was carried o\cr to the Matriculation certi- 
ficate and the same was adhered to in the later records. 1 
may at once point out that there is absolutely no foundation 
for this submission, since there is no pleading at all to the 
effect that the original entry in the school register was a 
wrong cntiy and the lower age was given or the academic 
age was purposefully minimised by the parents or guardian 
in order to gain some advantage for the student, namely the 
respondent. All that he states in paragraph 3 of his counter- 
statement in Election Petition No. 1 of 1974 is : 

“3. This respondent submits that it was for the first 
time in February 1974, on veiificalion, he become 
aware of the fact that his correct date of birth 
waa 14-5-1943. Up till then, all along, he was 
under a genuine impression that the date of birth 
given in his S.S.L.C. Book was the correct date”. 

From this and the other statements made in paragraphs 16, 
17 and 18 of the counterstatement in Election Petition No. 

1 of 1974, Mr. Venugopal wants to contend that there are 
enough statements to base this submission. I am unable 
to agree. Apart from there being not a specific pleading, 
even in the evidence, neither the respondent (R.W.) 1 
nor his elder brother (R.W. 3) would say that the date of 
birth given at the time of the respondent's admission into the 
school was cither wrong or incorrect. In N. Sankara Rcddi 
v. Yashoda Reddi (!) (13 E.L.R. 34), no doubt the birth 
register was produced which was accepted. In the later part 
of my judgment I will show as to how evidence is lacking to 
hold against this admission, and in my view N. Sankara 
Reddi v. Yashoda Reddi’s C 1 ) (13 E.L.R. 34) case has no 
application. In fact, R.W, 1 states as follows: — 

"Q. After you passed the S.S.L.C. who furnished the 
age particulars to the College? 

A. There was a certificate. From one certificate to an- 
other, it has been carried on throughout. 

Q. Who has furnished the particulars to the Bar Coun- 
cil? 

A, I furnished It. 

Q. Based on what? 

A. I furnished the particulars based on the first page 
of the S.S.L.C, 

Q. Likewise In various other University Examination 
applications, you have furnished the particulars? 

A , Yes, I furnished the particulars”. 

From the above evidence it is obvious that there is not even 
a suggestion that the entry was wrong. No explanation has 
been offered as to how and why such an incorrect entry has 
been ffiveu. Was it by mistakes, inadvertance or deliberate 
or designed? One is obliged to guess. “It is no function of 
a Judge to be lachrymose over what might have been brought 
in evidence. His function is to 30 by evidence that exists”, 
in the words of Bijayesh Mukherji, J. (Vide Babulali Chou- 
khani V. Caltex (India) Ltd. (i) (A.I.R. 1967 (Calcutta) 
205). In the Supreme Court case relied upon, namely Brij 
Mohan Singh v, Priya Brat Narain Sinha and Others( 2 ) 
[A.I.R. 1965 (S.C.) 282], the case of the appellantj as seen 
from paiagraph 20, at page 287, is that date of birth, viz,, 
October 15, 1937, was an incorrect statement made at the 
request of the person who went to get admitted to the 
school. The inquest was made to make him appear two 
years younger than he really was, so that later in life he 
would have an advantage wffien seeking public service for 
which a minimum age for eligibility Is often prescribed. This 


DECEMBER 28, 1 974/P AUSA 7, 1896 


was accepted by the Election Tribunal which was rejected 
by the High Court as untrustworthy. Under those circum- 
stances, their Lordships of the Supreme Court held: 

“However much one may condemn such an act of 
making a false statement of age with a view to se- 
cure an advantage in getting public service, a judge 
of facts cannot ignore the position that in actual 
life this happens not infiequently. We find it im- 
possible to say that the Flection Tribunal was 
wrong in accepting the appellant’s c\planation. Tak- 
ing all the circumstances into consideration. Wo 
are of opinion that the explanation might very well 
be true . . . 

1 may now usefully refer to the decision reported in 
Manohar Naik v. Binode Behari Bariha f 1 ) (23 E.L.R. 
379), wherein — 

“The first respondent’s election was challenged on the 
ground, inter alia that his age was less than 25 
ycais, at the time of election. The Tribunal, relying 
on the horoscope evidence as against the date of 
birth recorded in the School Certificate, held that 
the respondent was more than 25 years of age on 
the date of his election. In Appeal, it was held that 
there was no evidence on behalf of the respondent 
to negative the accuracy of the school age as re- 
presenting the real age. The respondent had merely 
averred that the matriculation certificate could not 
be taken as conclusive proof of the fact in issue. 
Apart from the other evidence showing the genu- 
ineness of the entry of the age in the School 
Certificate the publication of the matriculation re- 
sult with the age and description of the candidate 
Is a fact of public nature. The court has to form 
an opinion as to the existence of this fact and the 
recital of age contained in the Orissa Gazette is a 
relevant fact. The Gazette itself is presumed to be 
genuine under a. 81 of the Evidence Act”. 

I may also lake note of a similar contention advanced in 
this case, which was dealt with at page 286 in paragraph 
15 : 

“On the basis of A.I.R. 1941, Calcutta, 41, A.I.R. 1952, 
Punjab, 277, and 3 Elec. Law Reports, 31, Mr. 
Patnaik contents that the date of birth as entered 
in the school register of Kuchinda and as found in 
Ex. 14, though admissible, is not of great videntiary 
value as there is no evidence to show as to on 
what materials this entry in the admission register 
about the age of respondent No. 1 was made. Even 
on such a proposition, appellant will succeed if 
there is evidence of some weight on his side and 
no evidence to the contrary on behalf of the res- 
pondent No. L... In A.I.R. 1957. Calcutta, 211 
A.I.R. 1957, Kerala 103, and A.LR. 1940, Nagpur, 
217, it has been held that Matriculation Certificate 
and School admission register are admissible as 
proof of the age of the person concerned. In 
1957, Kerala, 103, observation had gone to the 
extent that the entry thus made in official record 
by a public servant in discharge of his official duty 
has to be presumed as conect in the absence of 
other reliable evidence to the contrary”. 

These observations in my view, apply with full force to the 
facts of the present case, 

T.E.L.C. Kabis High School Records : Exhibits P. 1 1 and 
P. 11 (a) and P. 12 and P. 12(a) arc the iccord maintain- 
ed by the T.E.L.C. Kabis High School and they have been 
spoken to by P. Ws. 11 and 12, PAV, 11 says that Exhibits 
P. 11 and P. 12 were prepared by the then Headmasters and 
he is familiar with the signatures of those Headmasters. Here 
again the date of birth is as contended by the petitioner. 

Book — “Varalatiil Kalaignar”: Exhibit P. 28 is the book 
written by the respondent in which is contained a biographical 
sketch and the date of birth mentioned there is 14-10-1946. 
R.W. 4 is his evidence states that the particulars icgarding 
this biographical sketch were given by the respondent and it 
was he who wrote down, and at the time the took was pub- 
lished, both R. W. 4 and the respondent went through, at 
which time respondent found fault with R.W 4 went through 
the same and in reply told the respondent that he had taken 
down correctly what the respondent had directed. If the evi- 



3692 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


[Part It 


dence of R.W. 4 is accepted, it would be clear that the res- 
pondent was born in the year 1946 and I see no reason to 
hold otherwise, since it is the specific statement of R.W. 4 that 
he had taken down the same to the dictation of the respon- 
dent. 

Marriage Register. — Exhibit P. 29 is the Marriage Regis- 
ter. On this a good deal of argument has been advanced. 
That contaias in the column ‘Age’ as against the name of 
the respondent ‘26 years’ and the date of baptism is given 
a s ‘19-10-1946’. Even for an ordinary perusal the over- 
writings of these entries are seen. But the attack is not 
because of that. On the contrary, it is said this document 
haa not been proved, even though the objection was raised 
to its admissibility and the persons who could have come 
forward to prove the same were available, namely, Rev, Fr. 
Swami, who solemnised the marriage, or Rev. Fr, Maria 
Arul, who was in charge of the maintenance of this Re- 
gister, have not been examined. Even this apart, the pio- 
bativc value of this Register is limited, since the purpose of 
marriage is only for the registration of the marriage and hag 
nothing to do with baptism. In G.O. No. 40, Eleceslastical, 
dated June 30, 1924, the Appendix at page 864 of the Ga- 
zette prescribes columns relating to the Registration of 
marriage. That does not require that the date of baptism 
should bo entered and therefore, any entry which is not 
required to be filled, will be of no use, as laid down in 
Nagayaswami Naidn and others 0) v, Kochadai Naidu and 
'jthersC 2 ) and Tanncru Venkayamma v. Tanneru Gangayya 
(8) and Maniklal Shah v, Hiralnl Shaw. 

Lastly, the signature, Exhibit P, 29 (2) atone has Deen pro- 
ved, since it was put to RW.l. In such a case it cannot be 
held that the contents of the document have been proved. 
It has been so laid down in Madholau Slndhu v, Aslan As- 
surance Co., Ltd. and others( 4 ). 

The attack on this document is resisted by the argument 
on behalf of the petitioner that the entire entry was put 
to both R.W.l, the respondent, and R.W.3, his elder brother, 
who admitted the respective signatures, but only contended 
that neither of them furnished the necessary particulars. If 
the marriage is by Banns, a certificate of baptism should 
have been produced from the Home Priest. P.W.l, the 
petitioner, says that he saw File No. 12 in the Church in 
which the marriage of the respondent took place, in which 
file was available the Baptism Certificate. That evidence 
must be accepted. Though the Baptism Certificate was sub- 
opened under Exhibit P. 35, it was merely acknowledged 
under Exhibit P. 35(a). The same has not been forth- 
coming. Hence, Exhibits P, 36 and P. 58, the extracts of 
particulars relating to baptism, though they are typed copies 
because they happen to bo contemporaneous records at the 
time when the petitioner saw File No. 12 must be held to 
be admissible in evidence. In my view these arguments 
should be considered only in the light of the oral evidence. 
The respodent admits that he was married at St. Francis 
Xavier Church, when a specific question was put to him 
by me as to what ho had to say for this entry in Exhibit 
P, 29, which is 1940-1946, as entered theiein, his answer 
is ; “These particulars have not been furnished by me M 

R.W.3 was also asked about the marriage and he admits that 
he signed the marriage register in the Church itself. His 
explanation is. “Notwithstanding the fact that the age 
of the respondent was mentioned as 26 and the date of 
baptism was entered as 19-10-1946, he signed the register 
without looking into the pajticulars, nor did he furnish those 
particulars.” From the above evidence, it is clear that the 
marriage on 6-4-1972 is admitted. It. is not possible for me 
to accept the explanation that neither R.W.l nor R.W.3 
furnished these particulars. If the marriage has been ad- 
mitted and their signatures in Fxhibit P. 29 are also ad 
mlttcd, I should necessarily conclude that Exhibit P. 29 
stands proved, and it is of great evidentiary value. 1 mav 
refer to Canon 1103 and in paragraphs 1132 to 1134 the 
procedure relating to record of marriage is set out.* 1 * In 
paragraph 1133 it is stated: 

(1) A. L R. 1969 (Madras 329 nt 334). 

( 2 ) A, I R. 1934 (Madras) 16, 

*See pages 684 and 695 of ‘A practical Commentary on the 
Code of Canon Law’ by Rev. Stanislaus Woywod, Vol. I. 
Fourth Revised Edition, 1932, 


- — — — — — .. ' 

“It is, however, generally held by canonists that the 

keeping of an exact marriage record is a grave 

duty, for (he very pm pose of the record indicate 
this gravity,” 

It was Well open to the respondent Lo have denied the fact 
of marriage, in which event certainly the petitioner ought 
to have examined those persons connected with cither the 
solemnisation of the marriage or the maintenance of the 
records depending upon their availability. From this, it is 
possible to conclude that the respondent was only aged 26 
in the year 1972, in which case he will be only 28 years 

old in 1974. If this be the position, none of the objections 


raised by Mr. Venugopal could be sustained concerning this 
Exhibit P. 29. However, let me consider the position, as- 
suming that Exhibit P. 29 is not at fill admissible in evi- 
dence. 

Exhibit P. 30 contains the periodical reports from the 
Churches of marriages solemnised. In that register the 
column relating to the age of the respondent is noted as 
26. Exhibit P- 30 fa ) is the certificate which leads ns 
follows : 

“I, J, Poseph Sandanam, S.D.B., do hereby ccitify that 
the foregoing returns arc true and faithful copies 
of all entries of marriages of Indian Christians re- 
gistered in the legister book for such maniages kept 
at St, Francis Xavier’s Church, Madras-1, during 
the 12 months ending 31st December, 1972,” 

Underneath that is found the signatuie of Fi. Joseph San- 
danam, Parish Priest, St. Francis Xavior Church, 77, Broad- 
way, Mndras-1. Rev. Fr. Joseph Sandanam has been exa- 
mined as P.W.10, This was put to him during his oral 
testimony and he says that the marriage is dated 6th oi 
April, 1972, and is by Banns, it was solemnised by Fr. G. K. 
Swami and he ( P .\V .10) has si g tied. This is an Official 
report required to be communicated under the Indian 
Christian Marriage Act, 1872 ( Central Act 15 of 1872). 
This document, viz., Exhibit P. 30, would amply prove the 
contention of the petitioner that the respondent had not 
completed the age of 30 at the relevant date. 

Birth registers.— The Biith Register for the year 1946, 
though summoned, has not been produced. It was con- 
tended by the petitioner that because of the influential posi- 
tion the respondent happens to occupy, he has prevented the 
Birth Register for the year 1946 from being produced. Con- 
sequently, 1 directed the learned Government Pleader to 
take every possible step to produce this impottant register. 

I further diieclcd the concerned officers, Uvo of whom were 
examined, to trace thr same, failing winch to offer satis- 
factory explanation as to why and how that register camo 
to be lost. Accordingly, the concerned records were pro- 
duced, which were marked as Exhibits Cl to C4. On a 
careful perusal of the same, I am convinced that the Biith 
Register for the year 1946 has been lost long age and has 
not been available in spite of series of reminders under 
Exhibit C-4. Under those circumstances, I have no hesi- 
tation to hold that the allegation that because of the in- 
fluence exeicised by the respondent, this Register has not been 
forthcoming, must be rejected. However, the Bu th Register 
for the year 1943 has been produced. Relying on the de- 
cisions in the The Queen Fmj less v, Grecs Chnnder Bnncr- 
jce( fi ) and Ali Nasir Khan v. Munik Chand and another,^*) 
Mr, Venugopal states that fhcie is no entry relating to the 
birth of the respondent in the year 1943, and therefore, (his 
register will be inadmissible in evidence, since the legister 
cannot be accepted in evidence to piove the absence of an 
entry, while an entry m the register alone could be relied 
upon. This contention is not correct Because the res- 
pondent set up the year of biith as 1943, to rebut that 
statement, the legister for the year 1943 relating to the 
respondent’s village has been summoned, last, as rightly 

(-3) A. 1 R. 1950 (Calcutta) 377. 

0) A L R. 1954 (Bombay) 305. 

( r >) 1 I R. 10 Calcutta, 1024. 

(«) T.L.R, 25, Allahabad, 90. 



3693 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


contended by Mr. Pailhasarthy, learned counsel for the elec- 
tion — Petitioner in Election Petition No. 2 of 1974, the 
absence of that register would have given rise to possible 
comments by the respondent concerning the failure to sum- 
mon the same. Tu my view', the petitioner did the right 
tiling in summoning this register, which has dispelled every 
doubt. Therefore, neither of the rulings relied on hy the 
respondent can be of any assistance to him. 

Let me now turn to the evidence on the. side of the ics- 
nondent. The documentary evidence consists of Exhibits 
Rl, R2, and R4, Exhibit R1 is the extract iiom the Regis- 
ter of Baptism kept by the Ovari-Tuticorin Diocese issued 
by the St. Mary’s Church, Ovarl. This Exhibit has been 
given without even an application for it, and curiously the 
name of the Church itself is not found in it, and the expla- 
nation is that there is only one church in Ovari. This has 
been issued bv R.W.5[, obviously based on the entries in 
Exhibit R4. About this Exhibit R4, 1 am constrained to 
make the following observations, since this is the only re- 
cord which is the sheet-anchomis so far as the respondent 
is concerned. Though subpoena was taken out for the 
production of the Baptism Register maintained by the Church, 
which subpoena was addressed to the Parish Priest, and 
time was extended twice, it comes to he ultimately produced 
only on the 16th of August, 1974, and that too not by ih: 
Parish Priest, viz., Rev. Fr. Theophilus Ferando, but by 
R.W ,5, who had been granted three months’ leave by his 
Bishop from 5th July in 15th September, 1974. Concerning 
this, R.W.5 in his evidence states as follows; 

“Q. Have you given any reason so far to the Court 
as to why you are unable to produce the original? 

A, We took it as the original.” 


A general impression of this kind that this i cowritten register 
was the original, was also given to the Court until R.W.2. 
Rev. Fr. Rosario, was examined. This was not put to him 
R,W. 5 was asked as to what happened to the original to which 
certain the truth, I put the question to him whether he had 
signed the baptism register, since he claimed to have done 
the baptism for the respondent, and his answer was “Yes”. 
To a further question whether this register, Fxhibit R4, was 
the one maintained by him, his answer is “This is not the 
original”, and he adds that he does not know as to where 
the original is, “It seems to me that this register is ic- 
written" and he says so because if it were the oiiginal, hi\ 
signature would be found and that he was suic that he had 
signed the rigster. Only nfter this evidence was let in, 
R W.5 wtis asked as to what happended to the oiiginal to which 
the nonchalant reply was that he had burnt it in December 
1972 it self. To get at the ti nth, I had to nut a sciics of 
questions. His explanation for burning the original, in IPs 
own words, is: 

“That Baptism Register W'as in a very bad condition. 
I found it in loose sheets. There was no outer 
cover. No thread was found, f can remove it page bv 
page. The edges of the papers were also folded. 
The papers w^ere breaking. The register was in 

a powdery state." 

This explanation, apart from being unconvincing, is thorough- 
ly unsatisfactory and unbecoming of any Christian, more 

*o one connected with church affaiis. Bv this “unholy act" 

of burning this “sacred” register fit is termed “sacred" by 
P.W.10), R.W.5 has done great disservice to Christianity and 
greater disseivicc to the cause of truth. The reason why 

I state so is because of Canon 111 pumgraph 676 which 
road as follows:— 


of the judge to attach whatever value he thinks 
piopcr to them." 

If Ibis be the stand aid for maintaining, how could it be 
hurt ? I may also state that under Canon Law, the pastor 
iceoids of batism, mairiages and deaths are recognised as 
public rccoids and full pi oof of the facts alfirmed in such 
recoids. Canon 1818 says : 

“In the case of defective documents — namely, those show 
erasures, corrections, interpolations, or other “defects 
it is left to the discretion of the judge to determine 
whether and how far they prove anything." 

In fact, duiing the course of the arguments, when 1 asked 
Mr. Venugopnl whether 1 xhibit R-4 is worth the paper on 
which it was written, he said he was in agi cement with my 
remarks. Thus, the secondary evidence of the Baptism Re- 
gister, viz., Fxhibit R-4, as contemplated in Section 65 of 
the Evidence Act, cannot be let in. For these reasons, little 
hesitation do I have in injecting both Exhibits R-4 and R-l 
based upon that. 

Now to the oial evidence. \ am unable to accept the 
contention of Mr. Venugopal that the evidence of R.W.2, 
Rev. Fr, Rosario, should be accepted, since he is positive 
that he baptised the lespondent in the year 1943 when he 
was the Parish Priest. J am unable to accept his evidence, 
though he gives the reason as to how he came to remember 
this baptism, since the father of the respondent was his 
catechist, and one remembers certain important events in 
one’s life and one such event in his life is the baptism of 
the respondent. The reason why I reject his testimony is, 
it is admitted that there is a contemporaneous record by 
way of Baptism Register and that register has not been pro- 
duced, which alone could have spoken so eloquently about 
this baptism. In my view, it is unsafe to rely upon the 
memory of R.W.2, as human memory may fail while the 
documents do not Moreover he is very much interested 
in the icspondcnt, being their family friend for long. 

Barring this, there is only the interested testimony of 
R.Ws.l and 3, viz., that of the respondent and his elder 
brother. Both of them are said to have verified the dated 
of birth by referring to the Baptism Register. When the 
Baptism Register itself is not forthcoming, their oral testi- 
mony will be of no use. There is an added reason to re- 
ject the oral testimony of R.W.l. As seen above, there are 
a number of documents which contain the admissions of the 
respondent himt-elf that his date of birth is 14-5-1946. Any 
oral evidence which inns countei to this admission, cannot 
be accepted at all and 1 need onl> quote the dictum laid 
down by Their Lordships of the Supiemc Court in Mohinder 
Singh v. Slate of Haryana (1) A.T R, 1974 (SC) 873 at 


--"TTl 

“Oral evidence which runs counter to an admission con- 
tained in writing signed by a paity, in the very na- 
ture of things, is a very week piece of evidence and 
cannot be accepted without a grain of salt", 

A comment was made by the respondent's counsel about 
the non-examination ol Rev. Fi. Kagoo, who according to 
the petitioner is alleged to have done the baptism of the 
lespondent in the year 1946. Rev. Fr. Kagoo wrote a 
letter to the Court that he is unable to attend Court to give 
Fvidcnce. (Vide Exhibit R-8). If that w r ere so, in order 
to substantiate (he contention, the petitioner ought to have 
examined Rev. Fr. Kagoo at leasl on Commission The short 
answer is, if the oiiginal Baptism Register itself has been forth- 
coming that could have been put to Ref. Fr. Kagoo and 
some useful material could have been elicited by examin- 
ing him. In the absence of the original Baptism Register, 
it would serve no useful purpose to examine Rev. Fr. Kagoo 
ard thus, the failuie to examine him docs not in any way 
affect the case of the petitioner 


"Great, caution must be taken not to make any correc- 
tions in the record, such as striking out words, 
misspelling and writing over again; nil such alter- 
ations mar the record and make it woithless tn 
prove anything in law-, if made in a point which 
may become important. That they lose their value 
ns documents is indicated in Canon IRIS wh ch 
states that such documents are left to the mercy 


I summaries my conclusions as follows : 

(DA large valumc ol pnhlic lecords clearly show that 
the date of biith of th-- icspondcnt is 14 5-1946, though one 
of the documents shows his date of birth hs 14-1 OH 946. 



3694 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Par^II— 

■ — ■ ] — ■ . — ■ — 

Whatem- the discrepancy may be, oue thing is certain, that , No . 2 in Elci;tion Petltion 1 and 2 of 1974 : 
is, the respondent was born in the year 1946. 


(2) There are valuable admissions made by the respon- 
dent under signed declarations, a list of which I have set 
out above, which cannot be got over by a simple explanation 
that the wrong date has been carried forward from one re- 
cord to another, for which, as shown earlier, there is no 
basis at all, much less any evidence. The petitioner has 
taken all possible steps (vide Exhibits P-48, P-49, P-52, to 
P-57 and P-60 to P-63 ) to produce the best evidence possi- 
ble, as a result of which alone all these documentary evi- 
dence have come to Court. In fact, I should say that no 
effort has been wanting from the petitioner in this rcgai d, 
and therefore, it is futile to contend that the burden of proof 
has not been discharged. I may, in this connection, use- 
fully refer to the observations of the Supreme Court in 
Narayan Bhagwantrao Gosavi Balajiwala v. Gopal Vinayak 
Gosavi and others (1) A. PR. 1960 (SC) 100 (1960 SCR 
773 at 782)* 

"The burden of proof is of Importance only where, by 
reason of not discharging the burden, which was 
Ut upon it, a party must eventually fail. Where, 
owever the parties have joined issue and have 
led evidence and the conflicting evidence can be 
weighed to determine which way the issue can be 
decided, the abstract question of burden of proof 
becomes academic 1 '. 

(3) The documentary and oral evidence on the side of 
the respondent are liable to be rejected. 

From the above* the irresistible conclusion is that the 
respondent was born in the year 1946, which would mean 
that he had not completed 30 years of age on the date of 
the scrutiny of nominations, as required under Article 84 
(b) of the Constitution. Not to hold so, would amount to 
shutting one’s eyes to reality plain to be seen and accepting a 
mythical baptism in the year 1943* 

The framers of the Constitution fixed the age for elec- 
tion to the Rajya Sabha at 30 so that men of mature wis- 
dom and rich experience might be the Members and that is 
why they arc called "the elders". This court must be jealous 
of persons trying to circumvent this salutary principle and 
any usurpation of this high office must be prevented and 
the purity of elections must be maintained, since on that 
alone real democracy can flourish. 

Thus, I answer issue No. 3 in both the petitions in fa- 
vour of the petitioner. 

Regarding issue No. 7 in E. P. No. 1 of 1974 (issue No. 
10 in E.P, No. 2 of 1974) I must state that Mr. Venugopnl 
does not seriously contend that merely because the objec- 
tion was not raised about the disqualification at the time of 
the scrutiny of his nomination, the petitioner would be pre- 
cluded from doing so in the election petition. As pointed 
out by the Supreme Court in Durga Shankar Mehta v. 
Raghuraj Singh and Others (1), A.I.R. 1954 (SC) 520 this 
is a fundamental disability in the candidate to stand for the 
election at all. Hence this issue Is also answered in favour 
of the petitioner. 

Issue No. 5 in Election Petition 1 and 2 of 1974. — It has 
been repeatedly laid down by the Supreme Court that this 
Court sitting as a Tribunal, has no jurisdiction to enquire Into 
the correctness or otherwise of the amendment made to the 
Electoral Rolls. But I may just in passing observe that the 
amendment to the Electoral Roll has come to br carried 
out in a haphazard fashion by P.W.18. Tn his application, 
while reproducing the then existing Electoral Roll, the 
respondent had conveniently omitted his age, but would give 
only as to how his age should be corrected to read as 31. 
The records, Exhibits P-73 to P-76 do not show on what 
material the amendment came to be effected- Thus. I ans- 
wer the issue accordingly. 

Issue No. T. in Election Petitions 1 and 2 of 1974 : 

I have not been addressed any arguments an to how the 
election petitions are liable to bo dismissed. Hence, I ans- 
wer the same in favour of the petitioner. 


In paragraph 28 and 29 of the counter-statement of the 
respondent in Election Petition No. I of 1974 and in para- 
graph 49 of the counter-statement in Election Petition No. 2 
of 1974, objections have been raised as to the admissibility 
of Annexure 1 to 7. A further ground is raised that these 
Annexures are liable to be struck off as they were not filed 
with the election petitions. But, on a letter verification from 
(he records maintained by the Office of this Court, Mr. 
Vcnugopal submitted that he was satisfied that these Anne- 
xures were filed along with the election petitions, and hence 
this objection does not survive. A regards ihcir admissibility, 
since the petitioner did not seek to rely on any of these docu- 
ments that question docs not arise. Thus Issue No. 2 is ans- 
wered in favour of the petitioner. 

Issue Nos. 7, 8, 9, and II in Election Petition No. 2 of 
1974 : 

The allegation relating to corrupt practice is not specific. 
What the petitioner states, in effect is, by filing an amended 
Electoral Roll, the respondent has managed to have his nomi- 
nation accepted. The Returning Officer, as is well known, can 
only look into the Electoral Roll and he cannot go behind 
it. When the respondent produced Exhibit R-2, the certified 
extract, the Returning Officer has no option than to accept 
the nomination on the strength of the Electoral Roll. Under 
Section 36 (2) of the Representation of the people Act, 1951, 
the Returning Officer has got to examine the nomination paper 
and decide all objections that may be made to any nomination. 
In so far as no objection had been raised be would have had 
no opportunity to go into this question. Nor can he suo moto 
embark upon an enquiry, since he would have had no reason 
to conclude that the respondent was under aged with the 
corrected Electoral Roll before him. In fact, in similar circum- 
stances, the Supreme Court has held in Durga Shankar Mehta 
v. Thakur Reghuraj Singh and others (I) A.I.R. 1954 (SQ 
520, at page 524 : “when the candidate appears to be pro- 
perly qualified on the face of the electoral roll and the nomi- 
nation paper and no objection is raised to the nomination, 
the Returning Officer has nq other alternative but to accept 
the nomination. This would be apparent from Section 36 

(7) of the Act In other words, the electoral roll is 

conclusive as to the qua! ification of the electorate except 
where a disqualification is expressly alleged or proved. "In 
view of this, it cannot be held that the respondent is guilty 
of any corrupt practice. Even if the respondent has given a 
false declaration, that is a matter which arises under the Re- 
presentation of the People Act of 1950 and Section 31 speci- 
fically deals with the same. Sitting as an Election Tribunal 
all that I can enquire into is whether there has been any non- 
observance of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or 
orders made under This Act. as laid down in Section 100(1) 
(d)([v) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951* Hence 
these issues are answered against the petitioner. 

Issue No. 4 Election Petitions 1 and 2 of 1974 : 

In view of my finding on issue No. 3 in the respective elec- 
tion petitions, I hold that the election of the 10th respondent 
is liable to be declared as void under Section 100(1) (a) and 
( 1 ) (d) (iv) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Issue No. 6 in Election Petition 1 and 2 of the 1974 and 
issue No. 8 in Election Petition No. 1 of 1974 : It is the con- 
tention of Mr. K.K. Venugopal that Section 101 of the Act 
docs not apply to an election held to the Council of States, 
since what is spoken to under Clause (a) of the said Section 
is the majority of valid votes and in the case of a single 
transferable vote, there is no question of abtaininjf a majority, 
but only Ihe required quota. In my view, this is rather an 
extreme submission and 1 am unable to accept the same. The 
preamble of the Act itself reads as follows : — 

“An Act to provide for the conduct of election to the 
Houses of parliament and to the House or Houses of 
the Legislature of each State, the qualifications and 
disqualifications for membership of those Houses, the 
corrupt practices and other offences at or in connec- 
tion with such elections and the decision of doubts 
and disputes arising out of or in connection with 
such elections." 

Apart from the preamble referring to the Houses of parlia- 
ment, there arc also other Sections from which it can be easily 
gathered that the election to the Rajya Sabha cannot be ex- 



3695 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


eluded, viz., Section 2(d), 3, 7(b), 12, 29, 39, 67, 67(a), 68, 
69, 70, 71, 79(b) and (t) 147 and 155. In addition to these, 
the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, also contain a £e\\ 
rules which are relevant and they arc Rules 2(1) (c), 67, 70, 
71 and 85. In fact. Article 329 (b) of the Constitution bars 
any other lemcdy excepting an election petition concerning 
an election to either Houses of the Parliament. Thus, I hold 
that Section 101 applies to an election to the Council of Sta- 
tes. 


Rules 75(2) and (3) arc as follows 

“75 (2) If, at the end of the first oi any subsequent count, 
the total value of the ballot paper credited to any 
candidate is equal to, or gi eater than, the quota or 
there is only one continuing candidate, that candi- 
date shall be declared elected. 

(3) If, at the end of any count, no candidate can bo 
declared elected, the returning officer shall — 


Mr, Chitlae, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in 
Election Petition No. 2 of 1974, contends that in the event of 
the election of the respondent being set aside, the Couil has no 
other choice except to declare the petitioner in Election Peti- 
tion No. 2 to have been validly elected to the vacancy caused. 
His submission is that the petitioner in Election Petition No. 1 
obtained nil voles. Hence, he stands automatically eliminated. 
If that be so, the only remaining candidate in the field, having 
secured 300 votes, is the petitioner in Election Petition No, 2 
of 1974. Therefore, his election is “Hobson's Choice’ 1 . This 
is the position factually, and the decision in Viswanatha Reddy 
v. Konappa Rudrappa Nadqouda and another (1) A.I.R. 
1969 (SC) 604, supports his submission. Even in law the 
same position is arrived at since Rule 81 (2) of the Conduct 
of Elections Rules, 1961 (hereafter ]cf erred to as the Rules) 
states : 


(a) exclude from the poll the candidate who up to 

that stage has been credited with the lowest value; 

(b) examine all the ballot papers in his parcel and sub- 

parcels, arrange the unexhausted papers in sub- 
parcels according to the next available preferences 
recorded thereon for the continuing candidates, 
count the number of papers in each such sub- 
parcel and credit it to the candidate for whom 
such preference is recorded, transfer the sub-par- 
cel to that candidate, and make a separate sub- 
parcel of all the exhausted papers; and; 

(c) see whether any of the continuing candidates Las ; 
after such transfer and credit, secured the quota.' 


“81(2). When at the end of any count only one vacancy 
remains unfilled and the value of the papers of 3 ome 
one candidate exceeds the total value of the papers 
of all the other continuing candidates together with 
any surplus not transferred, that candidate shall be 
declared elected." 

Petitioner in Election Petition No, 2 of 1974 being such a 
candidate contemplated under the said Rule, he should be 
declared deleted. Per contra Mr. Venugopal argues that it is 
not correct to state that merely because the election petitioner 
in Election Petition No. 1 had obtained nil votes in the first 
count, he docs not stand automatically eliminated. He is still 
a continuing candidate within the meaning of Rule 71(1). 
Moreover, inasmuch as six seats came to be filled at the first 
count itself, since each of the candidates who was declared 
elected, obtained the required quote of 3,201 votes, the stage 
for applying Rule 81(2) did not arise at all and in such a case 
it will be in the realm of a guess or speculation that the peti- 
tioner in Election petition No, 2 got required quota and the 
observations of the Supreme Court in R.M. Seshadri v. 
G. Vasantha Pai (I) A.I.R. 1969 (SC) 692 at 701 arc of great 
help to him. The arguments of Mr. Chitlae, though apparent- 
ly attractive, appear to me, on closer examination to be un- 
tenable. Part VII of the Rules lays down the piocedure for 
counting of votes at elections by Assembly Members or in 
Council, which is the one that is applicable to the present case, 

1 may reproduce the material portions of Rule 71, which have 
a bearing on the present issue. 

“71 DEFINITIONS : In this part, 

(1) ‘continuing candidate’ means any candidate not 
elected and not excluded from the poll at any given 
time; 

(2) ‘count’ means — 

(a) all Lhe operations involved in the counting of the 
first preferences recorded for candidates; or 

(b) all the operations involved in the transfer of the 
surplus of an elected candidate; or 

(c) all the operations involved, in the transfer of the 
total value of votes of an excluded candidate; 

(5) 'original vote’, in relation to any candidate, means a 
vote deiived from a ballot paper on which a first 
preferred is recorded, for such candidate; 

(6) ‘surplus’ means the number by which the value cf the 
votes, original and transferred, of any candidate ex- 
ceeds the quota ; 

(7) 'transferred vote’, in relation to any candidate, m eai« 
a vote the value or the part of the value of which 
is credited to such candidate and which is derived 
from the ballot paper on which a second or a sub- 
sequent preference is recorded for such candidate; 


Rule 78 speaks of candidates who obtain the necessary quo- 
ta . be declared elected. 

Rule 79 speaks of transfer of surplus. 

Rule 80 states the methad of exclusion of candidates lowest 
on the poll, and Rule 81(1) and (2) speak of filing the last 
vacuncies. 

If only the petitioner in Election Petition No. 1 ceases to be 
a continuing candidate, the petitioner in Election Petition No. 2 
could be declared to have been elected. It is not correct to 
state that merely because he obtained nil votes in the first 
count, he ceases to he a continuing candidate. Only in the 
first count he has obtained nil votes. If the second count had 
been held, for which there was no necessity in this case, it 
might have so happened that he secured more votes than the 
pentitoncr in Election Petition No. 2 . The process of exclu- 
sion comtemplated under Rule 80 would arise after the trans- 
fer oE surplus, which tiansfer of surplus is detailed out finder 
Rule 79. In the present case that stage has not arisen at all. 
That being the position, there is no possibility of applying 
Rule 81. The votes cast in favour of the respondent arc not 
thrown away votes, but are valid votes, in which case the 
petitioner in Election Petition No. 2 of 1974 cannot claim 
that he had obtained the majority of votes. Even assuming 
that they aie thrown away votes, the petitioner in Election 
Petition No. 2 of 1974 had not established that either he has 
obtained the required quota or is the sole continuing candi- 
date. The question of obtaining majority of votes cannot 
arise at all in the case of a single transferable vote and it is 
only bv obtaining the quota, which quota is ascertained under 
Rule 76, the candidate gets elected. 

In Viswanatha Reddy v. Konappa Rudrappa Nadquoda and 
another (1) A.I.R. 1969 (SC) 604 what was held was where 
there are only two contesting candidates and one of thtem is 
under a statutory dlsqulifiction, votes cast in favour of the 
disqualified candidate may be regarded as thrown away, ir- 
respective whether the voters who had voted for him were 
aware of the disqualification and no fresh poll is necessary, It 
may be necessary to note that the above decision of the Sup- 
reme Court l elated to a case of single non-transferable vote. 
Hut that is not the case here. As I said above, it is only by 
obtaining the required quota the candidate gets elected, 

f may now set out the observations of the Supreme Court 
rendered in R. M. Seshadri v, G. Vasantha Pai (1) A.I.R. 
1969 (SC) 692 ut page 701, which arc apposite ; 

“It remains o consider the argument of Mr. Gupta whe- 
ther Vasanth Pai could be declared elected. This 
wall depend on our reaching the conclusion that but 
for the fact that voters were brought through this 
corrupt practice to the polling booths, the result of 
the election had been meterially affected. In a single 
transferable vote, It is very difficult to say how the 
voting could have gone, because if all the votes which 
Seshadri had got, had gone to one of the other can- 
didate who got eliminated at the earlier counts, those 
candidates would have won. We cannot orders a 



3696 


THF GAZrifE OF INDJA DECEMBER 28 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


recount because those voters weic not free tiom torn 
plicity It wouIJ be speculating to decide how man) 
of the \oters wcic bi ought to the polling booths in 
the cars We think that we aie not m a position t > 
declaie Vasanlhi Pai as elected because that would 
be inueW a guess or suinuse is to the mtUiC of the 
voting which would ha\t tiken place if this couum 
practice had not been perpetrated 

As fai as the petitionei in Flection Petition 1 is concerned 
I do not tind any basis in the Election Petition for this at 
ternate piayer excepting a mere statement in paragmph 2}(h) 
No evidence has been let m by him in this legud and theic 
foie, his altcrn ite piayei has to be rcccted In conclusion, 

1 answei issue No 6 holding that Section 101 applies Lut 
neithci the election petitioner in Election Petition No 1 oi 
1974 nor the election petitioner m Election Petition No 2 
of 1974 is entitled foi the declaiation that he has been dulv 
elected Issue No 8 in Election Petition No l of 1974 is 
answered as above 

Issue No 9 in Election Petition No 1 of 1974 and Issue 
No 12 m Election Petition No 2 of 1974 The stage for fil 
ing a recrimination petition does not arise at all, since it ha^ 
not been established that Lhc petitioner in Flection Petition No 

2 is entitled to a declaiation that he is the returned candid ic 
and I answer these issue accordingly 

In the j esult, 

(1) I allow the election petitions holding that the elec- 
tion of the 10th respondent D C John alias Valum 
puri John, as void under Section 100(1) (a) and 100 
( 1 ) (d) (iv J of the Repi csentation of the People Aci, 
1951, since he has not completed 30 Years of age 
as lequiied under Aiticle 84(b) of the Constitution 
of India on the date of the scrutiny of the nomina 
tion, namely March, 12, 1974, and consequently his 
election to the Council of States (Raj) a Sabha) fiom 
the State of Tamil Nadu in the biennial election held 
on 21 3 1974 is set aside 

(2) Neither the petitioner in Election Petition No 1 of 
1974 nor the petitioner m Flection Petition No ^ 
of 1974 will be entitled to a declaration that he 
himself has been duly elected in the vacancy caused 
by the setting aside of the election of the 10th ie^- 
pondent 

(3) Election Petition No 1 of 1974 will stand allowed 
to the extent indicated above and the 10th respen 
dent will pay the costs, which I fix at Rs 500 

(4) Election Petition 2 of 1974 will nlso stnnd allowed 
to the extent indicated above and the 10th res pen 
dent will pay the costs, which I fix at Rs 500 

(5) The recumination petition will stand dismissed with 
costs, of the lOlh lespondent which Is fixed at Rs 100 

(ltd ) S M 
14-10 1974 

[No 82 /TN/ 1-2/74] 
V NAGASUBRMANIAN, Under Secy 


tfft; #RT fmTPT) 

H £ fc-Ff 2 A 1 M 7 4 




3 38 7 — fsRT 
^nrrr t E dm 1 9 b 1 fr yrm < -> 

mr-mrr ( 1 ) $ ■sro (u) % smmfr t Em mfa 
*m 0 , u 1 <41 m ErfrmT spjmmT r 

^ fwi snfufTr Em rnr f 1 


*r srfnjmrr 1 1971 *r srrnft ^ » 

l^o 7 b 3 (nTTo 2fM/3b/74 rro II)] 

Oto fro tyuqmrFrr, 

MINISTRY OF FINANC1 
(Dcpaitment of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 26th October, 1974 
INCOME TAX 

S.O* 3387.— It is hereby notified for general information 
lh it the institution mentioned below has been approved by 
Indian Council of Medical Research, the prescribed autho- 
nty tor the puipqses of clause ( 11 ) of sub-section (1) of 
Section 35 of the Income tax Act, 1961 foi research pur- 
poses onl) 

INSTITUTION 

GUMRVT RESEARCH SOCIETY. BOMBAY 
This notification takes effect from 1st April, 1974 

LNo 763 /F No 203/36/74TTAH] 
T P JHUNJHUNWALA, Dy Sccy 

fcmt, 17 19 74 

VTo FT 0 3388 — fmm, 19 3 0*t«ftT ^ 

feror Ermft m fro ffrFra wm, Erfr *tEtt 

i c )j8(i938 ^T4) ^ urn 114 tpt jtot vrfwfr 
^ t impr ^ m mn^rrT um 

-jiq-q-pTj ( 1 ) CT'T'T tT4T Fffam mr T Tff mEmt ^Tn'mO 
t Fm Ermfr sirt sr mFr<r *rr & ^rmrPnrr 

fwr mrr £ tfE ^ it £ fa sruFTm, 

% 3tte ^Trfta § Fm *rr mfa 

trjftir ynr Em farr mum 1 

wrcfat m tt m n Ertfr 

mfiPT m yi srmi 

3 TTT firnn - fmrr mw 1 

1 ^Frmfr *rr mr fEr (Wtm) tm, 1974 ^ 1 
z sftFi 1939 *r fmr 12 Jr, ^ fmR ( 1 ) % 

c jt faRErFjpT t»fT mimT 1 

snmr ^ rr«r sr^mT ^ m toft 

TT*fnr rttr n, ?rf^Tr t mun 

tpt fmfT ^ ^ ’mrnr msfmr 

sfrtmnr *rr fir^r ^rftrr 



Sec. 3(iiJ] 

sftRnnMrcT qft srfar % «njsFr 

iw ^rrTTn sffc ^ fifat ?r^r fVfa ^rr irrmw qr 
ipt^t srffa?p>r xrftrffa*r tfm 4 1 % faFr 

*rrrT*j pft^TT 1” 

[Tr ° *To si (12) *faN II/74] 

'ETP'o ®fT o frtvnr 


3697 

1st November, 1974 published in Part II, Section 3(li) of 
the Gazette of India dated 23rd November, 1974, the follow- 
ing conigendnm may be noted. On page No. 3161 the figure 
Rs, 4,80,000 shown against small coin may be read as 
Rs. 4,08,000. 

[Ref. Gen, No. 295/H-74/75] 
Chief Accountant. 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1974 /PAUSA 7 , 1896 


New Delhi, the 17ih December, 1974 
(Insurance) 

5.0. 3388. — The following draft of rules further to amend 
the Insurance Rules, 1939, which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 114 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938), is 
published, as required by sub-section (1) of the said sec- 
tion, for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken 
into consideration by the Central Government on or after 
forty-five days from the date of its publication In the Official 
Gazette. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received 
from any person with respect to the draft on or before the 
date so specified will be considered by the Central Govern- 
ment. 

Draft 

1. These rules may be called the Insurance (Amendment) 
Rules, 1974. 

2, In rule 12 of the Insurance Rules, 1939, for sub-rule 
(1), the following sub-rule shall be substituted namely 

4 '(1 ) It shall be clearly indicated in every proposal form 
in the case of life insurance or, in the case of any 
other form of insurance, in the document, if any, 
forming the basis of the contract that rebate of 
premiums shall be allowed on only in accordance 
with the details given in the prospectus or table 
or premium rates and that an offer or acceptance 
of any other rebate shall be an offence under sec- 
tion 41 of the Act.' 1 

[F. No. 81 ( 12) — 4ns. 11/74] 
R, K. MAHAJAN, Director 

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
(Department of accounts and expenditure) 

Bombay, 16th December. 1974 
CENTRAL OFFICE 
CORRIGENDUM 

5.0, 3389.— In the Statement of Affairs (in English) of the 

Reserve Bank of India Banking Department for the week ended 

116 GI/74 — 3 


ffaTu) 

*rf ftetfr, 5 1974 


vrto hit 339 0— srwrff 1949 ( 1 949 vr 

1 0 ) w\ tflTT 56 % *rT<r ifttf tJTCT 53 artf STttT nlfWl TT spfpr 
^ gr *rrfaFr fFfa fa iwft^r tt, qjrrim 

fafa ffaV % ftr xrftffar * tmr 11 arom ( 1) * 

29 1 972 if 28 1 97 5 W ^ ffa 

fa 0 T^o 8/5/74-fat] 

fro Vffat, XHTT Trffa 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 5th December, 1974 

S.O. 3390. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
53 read with section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
(10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the 
provisions of sub-section (I) of section 11 of the said Act 
shall not apply to the Sindgi Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd., 
Sindgi, for the period fiom 29th Apiil, 1972 to 28th Feb- 
runry, 197>. 

[No. F. 8/5/74- AC] 
K. BAVANI, Under Secy. 



3698 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 LPart II— 

3Tpt fowl 

fnri 

ljfeFT^T, 10 7 4 

ijtTo 3 3 91 — frTT«f 'FPtf ^frqr srffclPmH, 1 93 4 % fW * 7 1 9 7 4 6 4Ml<^ TT W *T r ?TT^ ^ f 7 ^ ^*31 

(p^fwn) 

22,71,17,000 *FT f*H+l WpT^H — 

60 50, 5 4, 3 4, 0 00 (^) ’flT^T % TOT f tfl 1 8 2, 5 2 6 8,00 0 

' — — — — (<*) 3TPR % <qi^ TOT g^TT — 

6073,25,51,000 jrffTqf*PTt 141,73/17,000 

wr ^rr Frwr 

'Hi <■*>!< *997 SET 

r ^Fnrt 

*jft RtRfft fa*r siV ^ 

q | pJ| 


607 3,2 5,51,00 0 *TTftfaT 607 3,2 5, 51,000 

*rrr° % 0 ^rrft, ^ 

6 fifin' 1 9 7 4 Pnrf vi9i ^fr^T % ^rfaiF IV^tpt ^ fVq^.ur 

wfr *rrfamt jprf 

rr^r 'yfa 

( nf) j\ ^ 1 ^fRr x ^ ^ b ) fafa 

tps^Et yft- 

(f&rtvtfw) Prftr 

<i^ii rfWtfw ^ 

( jW^i tfPr ypar^T) Rrfa 

WTjftprt- 

(^) Frorfr 
(i) 

(li) TM ?H7TT? 

(^) 

(i ) ^ 

(ii) ^Nr 

(iii) n^r T^7|ft 

( iv ) «fa> 


5 00,00,000 


22,7 1, 1 7,000 

1 50,00,00,000 

Wl RlWl 

4,98,000 


^trr fwrr 

3, 6 8, 0 0 0 

284,00,00,000 

*sr^*frr Rr 



(v) fcfr 

1 31,36,48,000 

9 5,00,00,000 

(^) ftfcfr 



(f) FTOT^t ^nrRT firr 

587,71,40,000 

265,00,00,000 

f^r^ft^rwr^T arnm* 

536,44,32,000 


** 

tfrr srfim — 

5 3 7,88,43,000 

57,63,46,000 

(i) ^ 


1 1,24,98,000 

(ii) < 1^4 h * T' l <) u 

5 2,87,56,000 

609, 1 9,69,000 

( 1 ) FfjEpT TrFTW fsfTT *tt 

6 4,43,5 0,00 0 

14,38,34,000 

(ii) TO4F?rqF^TT^:j; 

319,29,91,000 

1,66 92,000 

(iii) 

1 0, 98, 0 0, 00 0 

9 2,3 2,000 

TFjRT ^ FfM) Rift? F 

«rf^FT 

(*r> ) — 



(i) ’T^r FTsfrn t «rr 

67,8 1,49,000 


(ii) ^ropj^i’O ^7«f7t 

1 4,52,5 1,000 


(iii) ^rt Tt 



(iv) frfF 'prf^i^ iffr 

6 3, 5 0, 0 0, 0 0 0 

— 

— -- — — - — — 






^r(\m ii fw=fT 1974 


324,26,65,000 
1 3,64,50,000 

5735,34, 36, UOU 


tffrriT favTFT 
if 

'41 0 Tfi FlTT 



Sec. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3699 

519.68.76.000 (^) Wf % fwft ^ fatH 1 1,1 6,98,000 

^ (fr^+‘^) fafafr ^ STktffiPT 

143 , 73 , 14,000 TRir^rfttv qrr iffa wfinr 47 , 45 , 62,000 

Ti^hr tftofar ) faft* ft ^rn, 

677.28.84.000 nf^HfafatfiTT 

(^7) f^TTT Tt ^Un tflT 240,65,82,000 

(*y) fa ti th ^rr ffm 'jrrft fa* 4 j fa <4 

fafavr 

«nft?PTT 1 4 5,25,58,000 

^ 2854,67,45,000 2854,67,45,000 

^^rfr, *mrfw mr rtfa wt^-iTTh srfH^fn^rt itfrfHH 1 1 

tffa (flifalMW srn^T) fafa tffa TT^l jfartfw *flPJT (ftfwftH sMh ) fafaj *T *T W ^ fa$T7T VTTfHH $ I 
ffa ^ ($T*ro*frr farfa % stsht wn* tffa HfaH HTfnH i tc^; ^nnr hcfrt W ^ <r^«rmV tffrr^ Tre 

THlfOT^ i 

tfert % ’crm ^fanr tffafwr ^ srm 17 ( 4 ) (h) % nsrfa- Htfam trr fh nYqfat fasfi tt Hfw fat nt 17 , 05 , 00,000 

^rt wifam % \ 

tffa ^ (*W*rm>T fafa sffa TT^r $fa fafa *t srcm ^ nftm HTfarr ^ £ 1 

*rp> %o prrft, ^rr tr4t 

llfaH^TC 19 74 [Ho <FTo 10 ( 1 )/74 *fto-I] 

^0 *o rffa^faY, *m HfapT 


(h) 

fan 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
New Delhi, J 3 December, 1974 
ISSUE DEPARTMENT 

8.0, 3391. — An Account pursuant to the RESERVE BANK OF INDIA ACT, 1934, for the week ended the 6th day of Decemberl974 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Rs. Assets 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking 
Department 

22,71,17,000 

Gold Coin and Bullion: — 

(a) Held in India 

182,52,68,000 

Notes in circulation 

6050,54,34,000 

(b) Held outside India 


Total Notes issued 


6073,25,51,000 Foreign Securities 

141,73,97,000 


Total .... 324,26,65,000 

Rupee Coin 13,64,50,000 

Government of India 

Rupee Securities 5735,34,36,000 

Internal Bills of Exchange and 

other Commerical paper 

Total Liabilities 6073,25,51,000 Total Assets 6073,25,51,000 

Dated the ltth day of December 1974 


R. K. HAZARI, 
Dy. Governor. 



3700 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, Banking Department as on the 6lh December, 1974, 


Liabilities 

Rs. Assets 

Rs. 

Capital Paid Up ... 

5,00,00,000 Notes]; ... 

22.71,17,000 

Reserve Fund 

150,00,00,000 Rupee Coin 

4,98.000 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund . . 

Small Coin ... 

284.00,00,000 Bills Purchased and Discounted: — 

3,68,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) 

Fund 

(a) Internal 

95,00,00,000 (b) External 

131,86,48,000 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term Oper- 
ations) Fund 

Deposits - 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 

265,00,00,000 Balances Held Abroad* 

Investments** ..... 

587.71.40.000 

536.44.32.000 

537.88.43.000 

(a) Government 

(i) Central Government 

(ii) State Governments 

Loans and Advances to : — 

57.63.46.000 (i) Central Government « 

11.24.98.000 (ii) State Governments^/ 

52,87,56^000 

(b) Banks 

Loans and Advances to 


(1) Scheduled Commercial Banks 

609,10,69,000 (i) Scheduled Commercial Bankst 

64,43,50,000 

(li) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 

14.38,34,000 (ii) State Co-operative Bankf 

319,29,91,000 

(iii) Non-Secheduled State Co-onerative 
Banks 

L66.92.000 (iih Others 

10,98,00,000 


Lons Advances and Investments from 


(vl) Other Banks „ 

92,32,033 NUiornl Agricultural Credit (Long Term 


(c) Others 

539,68,76,030 Operations) Fund 


Bills Payable 

143,73,14,000 (a) Loans and Advances to ; — 


Other Liabilities 

677,23,84,000 (i) Slate Governments 

67,81,59,000 


(ii) State Co-operative Banks 

(iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

14,52,53,000 


(iv) Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

63,30,00,000 


(b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage 

Bank Debentures .... 

11,16,98,000 


Loans and Advances from National Agri- 
cultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 



Loans and Advances to State Co-operative 
Banks 

47,45,62,000 


Loans, Advances and Investments from 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund 



(a) Loans and Advances to the Develop- 



ment Bank 

240,65,82,000 


(b) Investment in bonds/debentures issued 
by the Development Bank . 


Rupees .... 

Other Assets 

2854,67,45,000 — 

— Rupees 

145,25,58,000 

2854,67,45,000 


♦Includes Cash, Fixed Desposits and Short-term securities. 

••Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) 

Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund. 

[§) Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) 

Fund, but induding temporary overdrafts to State Governments. 

I Includes Rs. 17,05,00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4)(c) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act. 

t Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera tions) Fund and the National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. 

Dated the 1 1 th day of December 1974, 

R. K. HAZARI* Dy. Governor 
[No. F. 10 (l)/74 B.O.I.] 
CW. Mirchandani, Under Secy. 



3701 


Sec. 3(ii)1 THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. .1896 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 13th December, 1974 

SO* 3392 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by the pro- 
viso lo article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 of thr Con*- 
liturion and after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Audiioi -General of India in relation to persons serving in the 
Indian uidit and Accounts DcpuUment, ihc President hereby 
makes the following amendment to the Central Civil Ser- 
vices (Extraordinary Pension) (Second Amendment) Rules, 
1974, published in the notification of the Government of 
India No. F, 23(2)-E. V. (A)/74 dated the 26th Maich 
1974 ; — 

In the said notification in sub-ruJe (2) of rub* 1, for the 
figures, lctiers and wotd “9th September, 1965" the figures. 
Idlers and word “Is* January, 1964" shall be substituted 

Explanatory Memorandum 

The Cential Civil Services (Extraordinary Pension) Rules 
have been amended with retrospective effect in order to extend 
the benefit w.e.f 1-1- 1964 i.e, the date from which the intes 
of Extraordinary Family Pension payable to the widows and 
motherless children were revised vide Ministry of Finance 
Office Memorandum No, 19(3)-E. V. (A)/65 dated the 
9th September, 1965. The interest of no one would be pre- 
judicially affected bv reason of the retrospective effect. 

[No, F. 23(2)-E, V.(A)/74] 
S. S. L. MALHOTRA, Under Secy. 


rmiroffTOT , TOTOt tor 

7 TTRT, 19 7 4 

VTo mo 3 3 9 3. — yz TOTT^TTOT TO ITOlTF 20-7-72 TO 
1/72 TO % fTOrofafTOr trTOur farif toTT 1 

2. mr tfo 5, TO® *ffo fro- 

fTOfarr h ijvttm M to# 1 

(i) rto t{c 4 TO TO tojtot fro qr^^qt^rtr, TOCtTO 
vrtr TO'jtf tttoTO % fmn qr ffirTOFfsTT 

TfWlfq 4 fV'H 1 q I 

'TOMrt fa 7 % TO TOstot 377 TOfcsrTO 

TF[*F TOl ITOtTO TO TOT’VT ^tpjTO qTOTO- 

fjTTf tt^ TOfs^fTO ?n*}*r” 

(ii) "TOtot fTOTO tfjTO * TOtotTOTOTO TOr fefwrtfft: totot- 

trT % ta rr7 wr TOTOr i fim 

fTOt to 1 

‘'toNi tot% % r 3 3 1 h R-m TOt TOfTORm ttTO TO 
topttot 7 fifacnff TO 7 fTOTOr" 

(iii) it TO TOro 20-7-72 TO fro 1/72 

TO fcrfa 19-4-74 % if TO? TO J?tTOt 

IfTOn TiTO di^iTT % "FT ^fV^TTTT Eft 7 ” H l fqjT% % 7TT 
TTTfTOTOT TFJ% % TTT qrfdHf-rftifd 71T1? TOTFTTfTO 

m tot i 

ir qrm % ^tTOtot TOr <tt$i TOt* TOt 
faTO? TO BJtl'F PTRJTO” I 

[TOTTo TO/ 4/ 3 0 /b 7/ 7 3-^o dttp tffo (sjo 4)] 

ito n^oflTjo TOR, TTHfA 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, 
Guntur, the 7th November, 1974 
ADDENDUM 

S.O. 3393 . — -The following amendments shall be made in 
the Schedule of this Collectorntc Note No. 1/72 dated 20-74972 
2. Against item No. 5 Vishakhapatnam IDO, the follow- 
ing corrections may be made. 

(i) Under Column No. 4 for the words ‘Whole of Salur, 

Bobbili and Parvathipuram talukus of Srikakulam 
dist.’ substitute the following : “Whole of Salur 
Taluk except Panchipenta firka, Bobbili taluk and 
whole of Parvathipuram taluk except Kurupam 
firka" 

(ii) For the words ‘Lalamkodur, Djmili and Yelamanchili 

firkas of Yelamanchili taluk’ substitute the following: 
“Lalamkodur, Dimili and Yelamanchili firka except 
Pedapalli and Kokkirapalli village of Yelamanchili 
taluk”. 

(ii) For the words’ Gajapathinagaram taluk, Paderu and 
Kaligada firkas of Paderu taluk” as inserted in this 
office addendum dated 19-4-1974 to this office Noti- 
fication No. 1/72 dated 20-7-1972, the following 
shall be substituted : — 

“Gajapcthinagaram taluk except Jaithi firka* Paderu 
and Kaligada firkas of Paderu taluk”. 

[C. No. V/4/30/67/73 UMP OJ. 4)] 
A. S. I. JAEFAR, Collector 


( TOiflT rM 1 s VJFF ) 

6 7 RR 7 197 4 

Wc 3 3 94 — TOjTO TOPT fTOroTO 1 944 ffpR 5 

SRT 5 IT 7 T TOTOTO qTT TOFT *T VJlo n^ 0 IJ^TT, TOT^Tl, 

3r£Ft TOR TOTO rid^aiTT TFTJT %?jfFT TOTT RT- 

^ toFt % rpf 4 w srfwvTfror 

RT7 TOT ’crfEPTF T 3 if tsfeffaffi fiT^rT TORT 

VTFT Wt ^TTWT % f«RT ^ff ^TcT % TORry if 

TOfVftr ff TOR fTTOmt 1944 % fTRT 

* TOTFRf qfr rfrot *ft toft qfTOK to r ^ i 

RRfr 


^fo iRTTiftfT^ ^jftT TOTK TO TO 

*ft rtot fTror 


12 3 4 


1 ^if TOTfU ^TOT ^T^FjTTTOT 9 6 Too ( 1 ) ITtftw 

tot toFt % fro fTithr rt 96 ^ to 
TOT WF ^ TOTOtT if TTOT (2) 

TO tTTOtt tort 

2. frpr Tr Fro FtTOtT 96 Too ( 3) TT^TTOF ^TTOPT 1 ! 

TO TOprffT TO TO tttTt 
TOtr T7TT TO TOT- 
fTOTO TO TOT tTO xmT 

sfijr 



3702 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, I974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


[Part II- 


l 


o 


3 


4 


7}^ ^ r^ftrt^TT 

% *r?t- 


table below to exercise within their respective jurisdictions the" 
powers of Collector relating to the special Procedure in respect 
of Cotton Fabrics processed without the aid of power or steam, 
under the Central Excise Rules, mentioned in Column 3 of the 
tabic 


TABLE 


3 (*p) 'UrtflTo rrq-o *ffo 4 ft iff To (l) SnfTtfT 

ir rpr "Ft 

°f i 1 1 c tiX*1 1 


S. Nature of powers C. Ex. Rules Rank, of Officers 
No. to be exercised 


(w) % fapi tr p fr 


(i) is n 

mfitrr ^r 

(ii) 1 5 frr ’Tfeppr 

mr- 


4 ffTr^T 0 ^ 70 n^frcnft 9 6^7 
% fart ^ *ft ff ^ 
if 74 ff re TT?T 

4 frn ffTfw *PTT 7R4 

if 


( 2 ) (i) mff?r 

^ ffT^T ^ 

TTFrfmfT Pq 61 ^ 74 

ffTF 3r W 
t&nftsfPF 


(ii) irftPrw^r- 

1) % 

^FT faffTT dtffT h 

'ffftnr ?ft 

ffETW *TRWfj 


3. Wl mff'TT tflfr % 
hi faftr u 7°7 ^ j i m r 


(i) 96^7^0 (i) iffdtw 

c fT< 'Tl 


(ii) ffPT^T^V^TT 96 -fYnTTo ( jj ) UTft?T 

ST-Tff IT ^TTff 

^IwfT 

(iii) tt^ estr ^ fT-rFw th* 95^7^0 ( iii) 

4^7 STTPTT 


[rffo tf° «ft (19) 8-l/74-Tffo 12] 

5TRo iT7f o ffHlpJd? 


(Central Excise) 

Nagpur, the 6th November, 1974 

S O. 3394, — In exercise of the powers vested in me under Rule 
5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 1, R,N. Shukla, Collector 
of Central Excise, Nagpur, hereby authorise the officers in the 
Nagpur Central Excise Collcctorate specified in column 4 of the 


1. To accept first appli- 96-ZO Superintendent 

cation for the special (1) 

procedure for a full & 

period or for a shorter 96-ZO(2) 
period. 

2. To preclude a manu- 96-ZO(3) Asstt. Collector 
facturcr from working 

under the special proce- 
duje for failure to give 
proper notice for not 
availing of such proce- 
dure during the period 
for which permission 
has been granted to him. 

3. (a) To accept renewal 96-ZO(4) Superintendent 

application in form 
ASP. 


(b) To condone delay 96-ZO(4) ( 1 ) Supdt. for condo n- 
tn submission of ing dealys not ex- 

ASP for renewal , cecding \5 days. 

(ii) Asstt. Collector for 
condoning delays 
exceeding 15 days. 

4. To condone delay in sub- 96-ZQ(2) (1) Supdt. for condon- 


mission of application 
for removal in form A.R- 
It and to condone 
delays in making 
monthly deposits. 


5. To impose following 
penalties for misdec la- 
ration, etc, 

( I ) to demand difference 96-ZS 
of duty. 

( II ) to confiscate goods 96-ZS 

(iii) to impose penalty 96-ZS 
not exceeding five 
thousand . 


ing delays not 
exceeding 5 days in 
each case. 


(2) Asstt. Collector if 
the delay exceeds 
the limits under (1) 
above. 


fi) Superintendent. 

(ii) Adjudicating Officer 
in accordance with 

their limits of po- 
wers. 

(iii) Adjudicating Officer in 
accordance with their 
limits of powers. 


[C. No. V. (19) 8-1/74-C XII] 
• R. N. SHUKLA, Collector 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1 974/P AUSA 7, 1896 3703 


Tf frMt, 21 W^R, 1974 

3395 — ^ nfafa ^rfufWT 1959 % ^ 12 (l) 
5T7T r fll ITT TRSTT Tt 5TCTT srfwft STOtT §%, 1 *T^T 19 7 5 
n ^ n tpHtCt tt Tt rr^^BTH 

T,0 1200-5 0-1600 % ^RTTFT % 5f^T fW ^PTT $, frPPU 

^ *tk?t trttr *pr nfan % ^ % *rtsr yPni 

2. *sft %r tnr^im ^ nfafr, *t 

vtfa^rh fen w fc i ^ *r*nrc % w 

Tff^ % TT ft ftTT fftr*T fjtft TT f 1 *T^T 197 5 ft ffr wt^Rt 
xrftpfiTft % q* Tr «FTft r <TR Hvnftft i fapr ft «ft fftfa<%V 

<rc vt *FT^ r *TR Tftt mfnr ft ?*r wr*m ft ^ 

4 T*TET ftk JJffiffifR ^ 7rP * rff ^ ^ 

%r ^qTTRdf^T TR faur HTft*TT ^ *"<T ft T*T 

Utf m ^ % fd^a^l 4 <?ElT | 

1 TT TT *?T? ^$Tft, w TTTMM *T$Tft TTftTTT TTft 
rqrTRTfRT tr% % 4 trV f%ft ^ mftuTj trTt 

ft rfj $rft fan nrftv ft sfl fftf^qft ^n q* *t tptw i 

[fto TRTo (^)/llfl-l/j4/74] 
<ttr ifffttftT f'l^i T 1 1 


MINISTRY OF FXTERNAL AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 21st November, 1974 

S.O. 3395. — In exercise of the powers vested in the Gov- 
ernment of India in terms of Section 12(1) of the Haj Com- 
mittee Act, 1959, the post of Executive Officer in the Elaj 
Committee, Bombay, is hereby up-giaded to the scale of 
pay of R* 1,200-50-1,600 with status equivalent to an Under 
Secretary in the Government of India with effect from 
1st April, 1975. 

2. Shri M. H. Siddiqi, is hereby appointed as Executive 
Officer in the Ilaj Committee, Bombay. He will assume 
charge as Executive Officer w.e.f. 1st Apiil, 1975 only, on 
his superannuation from Government set vice as Under Sec- 
retary in the Ministry of External Affairs. The woik l elating 
to Ribnts and Musafirkhafias in Saudi Arabia and Iraq will 
be tiansfeiied to the Executive Officei of the Haj Committee 
fiom this Ministiy from the date Shri Siddiqi assumes charge 
of the post but will remain under the overall control of this 
Ministry. 

3. The order, in lcspect of up-giadmg of post, its scale of 
pay and transfer oi woik referred to above, will apply to 
and take effect fiom the dale of assumption of charge by 
Shri Siddiqi. 

LNo. M(Haj)/l 18-1 /34/74] 
AKBAR KHALEELI, D hector 


JETT 'FT 

ni f^rr, 2 8 frrnrr, 197 \ 

*T° WTo 33 96. — fftqfa (ETfbRt fotOT trV fa^Rt) 
sr fafHqq , 19 63( iyt.3 qr 22 ) «rm 17 tpt qrr vfiwft 
qr sftmr 37 rtf fnnri f^Vrr 

) inwn, iyfi7 n 5tfR srffi m'inn % M 

1 ( 1 ) xn fT^nfr tt TP4 wrm 

fTT^vT rfp- ffRfOT) WT*JT fann, 1 97 4 ^1 

( 2 ) n tptto ^ 5i4ni%d ift?r %r mfm %t i 

2 . fnnxi Trvff^T fnnfa xfR 1wr ; 

i 9 b 7 n 8 % *njn *r f%m w mm;^TT, 

^r^rfr F — 

“*rfrr — (l) 4 % TrfTtRT (4) % ^rtfur vfa- 

ffRT WT^T-'T^ %% % 7RTR ^ -Tf^TT 
jm rf^T 5TFd WPT % 1 0 faT % r <ft7R, 

ffV^T nv T 4 ^FTfKT^ %T 

Terror *r art f^nft % TrmTt ?r wfo ft 

%V wV % 5pffw^, TOTT 5TRT 

( 2 ) frffr’ntft % j^r tt f^if 

^T-+l \ EpTRTt TT ^Wl l I 

( 3 ) TT Vtxx cfpr TT ^PTT l 

( 4 ) ^rfFi nx ^ft vPhh ^Ptt i 

( 5 ) *rfK itt^t % 1 5 f^r % nfax 

^TTTTTfV 1 

[n<> 6 ( 5 ) / 7 4 -t «nf 7 ^ f 4t] 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 28th December, 1974 

5.O. 3396. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 
(22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Fxport of Sewing 
Machines (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 1967. 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Export of Sewing 
Machines (Quality Control and Inspection) Amendment Rules, 
1974. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publi- 
cation in the official gazette. 

2. In the Expoit of Sewing Machines (Quality Control 
and Inspection) Rules, 1967. foi rule 8 the following rule 
shall be substituted, namely 

Appeal — (1) Any pci son aggrieved by the refusal of the 
Inspection agency to issue a certificate under sub- 
lule (4i of 1 ulc 4, mayj within ten days of the 
receipt of the 1 omm umcation of such refusal by 
him, picfer an appeal to a panel of experts consist’ 
ing of not less than three but not more than seven 
pci sons appointed for the purpose by the Central 
Go\ einmeni 

(2) At least two Ihiids of the total membership of 
the panel of experts shall consist of non ’Officials. 

(3) Th^ quorum foi the panel shall be three. 



3704 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 LPart II— 


(4) The decision of the panel on such appeal shall 

be final 

( 5 ) The appeal shall be disposed of within 15 days 

of its receipt" 

[No. 6(5) /74-EI&EP1 

*r° qio 3 3 9 7*- -Trotr (Frrfanft fwr xt fftftmr) 
Tfftfftrrr, 1903 (u)fi3 Fr 22 ) ftt upt 17 arcr ftt 
W fFTTT Fi 5PTPT TRft |TT ( ft^TJ RFR nTR£RT KVt sfcfR 
Fflx ^ nl^R fftftrr ( (n 0tn ,j i ) fftTT, 1 l Hi 7 ft «iVr xtf( 
ftftm ft fftu PmFilftrr f™ spTrftt £ ; 

1 . ( 1 ) sr fimf ft m ^Ftr ?fh;^fr nrfaR fftrfr 

(TrrfTfr Pi#f ftV FR^pr) ftvfftpr firor, 1074 
ft 1 

( 2 ) 5 ft wrfftr ffft ftt tret ftt srtpr efPt 1 

2 . nftrR *fl* trt rfhnr (Frrfftfr tfk 

(fttfiSRr) fim, 1987 ft fTTR- S ft RTR TT f^GP-dl f^PRT 

ttjt 5prfrf v •* — 

“^nTr — ( 1 ) FuRT { 4) ft TT-fam 4, ft WH 
srfftFPnF srt srarw-T* Rr ft rr 4 srfftr fttf ^rfiR, 
ttf irt ftft rrR ftt ftgjrrr tpr fftft % to far % 
ftftR, ftfa 4- tPRTfftrj TRT ft TTfftF r% fWRt ft ^RT 
ftr ?rfW fr Tftrr, tt ft fftrftf ft *rsflrr Tnrm hr t**tt 
xrfnrT ftt TR'Tii tfk fafaw>T ft iTftRrrrft, ftrftr rtt 
trt firm fft^ inTT | 

( 2 ) fatfTCTf ft Ttt ftf TTRP1T m FT ft FT 
<YFrt£ fa ttfrt mRftt f ( ^Prr 1 

( 3 ) far Fr ftRr rflr ft fPrr 1 

( 4 ) rr4t frfFr «R ftw ft fftfmRT Ffarr ftEtr i 

(5) *rfH ^nft srw r[H hr fftftf % Thrr 
fnarrf wrft 1" 

[ft° b ( 5 ) / 74-fo 1 qa* $0 ifto] 

5,0. 3397.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Export 
of Small Tools and Hand Tools (Quality Control and 
Inspection) Rules, 1967. 

1, (1) These rules may be called the Export of Small 
Tools and Hand Tools (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Amendmen Rules, 1974, 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of theii 
publication in the official gazette. 


more than seven persons, appointed for the pur- 
pose by the Central Government. 

(2) At least two thirds of the total membership of 
the panel of experts shall consist of non-officials. 

(3) The quorum for the panel shall be three. 

(4) The decision of the panel on such appeal shall 
be final. 

(5) The appeal shall be disposed of within 15 days 
of its receipt.” 

[No* 6(5) /74-EI&EP] 

*T° UTTo 3 3 98, — fftrfF (Frrfftft PhWT tfa ffaftm) 
TfftfilTT i960 ( 19 83 Fr 22) fcTRT 17 TRf 5TT^ wfwff 
*TT 5RTRT TrT JTT %7fpT TRFR fpRT FttH ('TXlFlJt 

TiV fM>vRT) fTT4, 19 67 % ^ ’fftf T9T>JT % ft 
,J ’i^iJT <j ftRT Gft?n ftiTn FTlTft ^ J 

1 . ( 1 ) RT ftrqtff TiT TRT ftw TftfT ftffitT ( T(TrT^T 

rfE ftrflOT ftrTT, 1971 ft 1 

(2) ? fpstw # wrftrT ^ ifrr \ 

2 ft^rr tTtt ftprftr (*fTrftRf ftw ftrft^pr) fium, 
1937, T Pm 8 ft RTPT TT fT^ftfpFF ftfTT TTT RPRTT; 
— 

"*r#r — ( 1 ) Pttt 4 ft 3rftm ( 4 ) ft *rtftT 
^rfWRT 5RT STUTRPT ft ft ^rfttT fttf ^rfftT, 

Tnft TRT ftft WIT ftt ft^FTT 5TFT fRft ft 10 fftftt 

ft ftftR, #r ft xrjr Ift^ rnn ft trrfw ftft fftftwf 
ft ftt ?rfhT ft u%tt ftt ft ftmt ft wEffti t i i 
ft xpfftff ftt TJTTTf qftr fftPur^PT ft TTRmf 

ft^ftr RTFR TRr fftrr iffTT | 

(2) fftftrftt ft Trt w ft ft ft 

Tt fftflt fa TTFrtft TTrtff Ff ftTRT I 

( 3 ) Ff ftm FT fTRT I 

( 4) pftt trftr TT ftTR FT fafftHT ^TTT I 

( 3 ) crftrt, ^rft stm ft fftr ft 4 Tr 
fftrerf Tfmrt i" 

[To e ( 5 ) / 7 4 Hf ° 1 rrtnr ^ 0 eft] 

S.O. 3398. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Export 
of Diesel Engines (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 
1967. 


2. In the Export of Small Tools and Hand Tools (Quality 
Control and! Inspection) Rules, 1967, for rule 8 the following 
lule shall be substituted, namely : — 

“Appeal— (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal 
of the inspection agency to issue a certificate 
under sub-rule (4) of rule 4, may, within ten days 
of the receipt of the communication of such 
refusal by him, prefer an appeal to a panel of 
experts consisting of not less than three but not 


1. (1) These rules may be called the Export of Diesel 
Engines (Quality Control and* Inspection) Amendment Rules, 
1974. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the official gazette. 

2, In the Export of Diesel Engines (Quality Control and 
Inspection ) Rules, 1967, for rule 8 the following rule shall 
be substituted, namely ;* - 



3705 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

" Appeal — (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal 
of the inspection agency to issue a certificate 
under sub-rule (4) of rule 4, may, within ten days 
of the receipt of the communication of such 
refusal by him, prefer an appeal to a panel of 
experts consisting of not less than three hut not 
more than seven persons, appointed for the pur- 
pose by the Central Government 

(2) At least two thirds of the total membership of 
the panel of experts shall consist of non-officials. 

(3) The quorum for the panel shall be three. 

(4) The decision of the panel on such appeal shall 
be final. 

(5) The appeal shall be disposed of within 15 days 
of its receipt.” 

[No. 6(51 /74-EI&EPJ 


*to *fta 3339. — fefa (ferfeft fefe sfa fetor* r) nfa- 

ftpm, 1963 ( 1963 22) Tf OTTr 17 nfwff 

fefa (fetom) ffer, 1965 ir ^ nuftun % fe 

feifafer fim 3 Tr 7 ft ; — 

t ( i) tr fent Tf nm *nj nfenfe fefa (fet- 

tf*r) uvfrTT fen, 1974 ft i 

( 2 ) # ^rim wrfer aft* ^ nrfe ^ sW 1 

2 nfetfe **5 fafe (fet!*m) fen, i 9 es, *r fw 

7 % Oq f'T TT feTfirfer fiiq 9 7734 TlTHfl , 

'VfrT (l) frpm 4 Bp jqfet? ( e) * fen 

srf f 4 7 F TU T st^i tup™ tn h" ferr q?tf fern, 

^TiiTr TP 3 nlfF Tt r ym % 1 0 fqq 

tffe, fe ^ fej nrn ft wftrr fcnS c ral 
fer fen rferr xt feut % fen nrfer 
nrfr xrfe fi/Tfe fe faffen % fenfe 
Tpnrr rr jm fejnn fei fe 1 

( 2 ) Wnft ^7 ^ THEEF vt 

?fr felt ^r-nrfe yfer Tr fer 1 

( 3 ) fer vr fen fe tt feT 1 

(4) fe fen qr >fe ffewr xrffe fen 

(5) fen, "fe TPT fe % fe % fee 
fe£T< nife i 

[Po 6(5)/74fe°fe7pqT fetfo] 
^To fe 

S.O. 3399. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 17 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) 
Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Export 
of Light Engineering Products (Inspection) Rules, 1965. 

1(1) These rules may be called the Export of Light 
Engineering Products (Inspection) Amendment Rules, 1974. 

116 GI/74 — 4 


DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 

(?) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the official gazette. 

2. In ihe Export of Light Engineering Products (Inspec- 
tion) Rules, 1965, for rule 7 tne following rule shall be 
substituted, namely 

“Appeal — (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal 
of the inspection agency to issue a certificate 
under sub-rule ( 6 ) of rule 4, may, within ten days 
of the receipt of the communication of such 
refusal by him, prefer an appeal to a panel of 
experts consisting of not less than three but not 
more than seven persons, appointed for the pur- 
pose by the Central Government 

(2) At least two thirds of the total membership of 
the panel of experts shall consist of non-officials, 

(3) The quorum for the panel shall be three. 

(4) The decision of the panel on such appeal shall 
be final, 

(5) The appeal shall be disposed of within 15 days 
of its receipt ' 1 

[No. 6(5) /74-EI&EP] 
K.V. BALASUBRAMANIAM, Deputy Director. 

( q finfanrr, f'Erfr ^ 1 

nfe 

17 ^n{, 1974 

*ToflTo 3400. — *T+sft TTT 5— 3^ 6 7 3, 

TFT, S to < 3T T «rt vm ‘RTTT fiFTT ftfo ?t TTT % 

% Pt9“ 1 . t f y pF T MfT, 2. TTfrTtr ntTT , 3. 

4 trr hrr ttx 4* qfrqr ( TRTrff ) % firt 55.040^0 ^ ^ 

fr^rf no c ft/Tn/yrrr/7247 66 f^rtr 30 - 3-74 

firm tjtti f nr 1 

nrtTT ^ srtfnrfi nfr ^ ftrt w m«r n n 
fen $ Pr ferf 'nfer nrr % % fW 

fer f^T ntr fejr ^nfm fer fer tfY nfr n^rr 

imr nwFnn $t *Ftr S 1 

^ n wi-tx TTfer fen ft i 

^ 5 fir tjt ferf nfer tfr w ft iffic fen j Pff 

ipr^r xfiifer ferf ^ 1 ^ ^rrtt ferr ^ett Trfe 1 fenf 
^ Tfh sft ^reff ft 1 

[tto tfo n-9/nn mr 5trr$/TV- 3 l/t?; rnq- 74 -ft*.] 

(Office of the Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 
ORDER 

Hyderabad, the 17th July, 1974 

S.O. 3400. — M/s. Uma Industries, 5-3-672, Shankar Bagh 
Hyderabad were granted a Release Order No, P/S/R/ 
724766 dated 30-3-74 for Rs. 55,040 for the items L Do- 



3706 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


decyl Benzene /Alkyl Benzene 2 . Caustic Soda 3. Soda Ash 
& 4. Urea (Chemicals') for allotment of materials from State 
Trading Corporation of India Limited. 

They have applied for n duplicate copy of Release Order 
on the ground that the original Release Order has been lost 
or misplaced without having been produced for supply of 
goods or utilised at all. 

In support of their contention they have filed an affidavit. 
I am satisfied that the original copy of Release Order is lost 
and direct, that a duplicate Release Order should be issued 
to the applicant, The original copy of Release Order is 
hereby cancelled. 

[F. No. U-9/SST /P-3 1 /AM-74 /Hyd.] 


form? , 21 1974 

€T° *T° 340 1 — TT^fl - ftHH 5-8-38 4/ 1, nnw^T 

ftFiw Tt mum *pT A ( i) 74^^r 

2,500 pqt (it ^nr qm m i <. ufar 4 sflr fir^tr 

ft fiqtf fifTFl * STTfipT* wf ( 2 ) 1000 

W? (rr^ f^TF W 7 RTf) ftmfiT % tTPTTT ^ fipT 

*rfw 10-521 i*, Jrtm ^ 

A yifir^K q^% *rm rpFtmm mrtfp ^/tp/ 1743057 / 

^ft/pw 7^/50/^7/37-38 14-2-74 ^3,500 lo 

(tftp £1TR Tfa *A WT Pm) Hlfi'a fam PPT PT 1 

ppjfr srrftmT m % pm pttPp Vrf rftpr^Rr 

^Pm^ftSfT % fi=TTr IP PTHTT qr STT^T fwr ft fa 9TftR7F 

qw ^ pm tfi pti^p fi^fr tftoFpqr qTfwnfi- ^ ptp ppt- 
ifTTpr fpPT TPPbT fipp ppTT ’ll *RT ft I 

wti % pp^p *r pt4w A cr^r vrm-T* ttIVt fa*rr ft i 
ff g fir mfimr % pm qft jjp pIoiw^h- 

qfa qf ft rflr fp^Tr j fir 

mfPTR qw % pm ^Fjfi=rfq tfbRFprr «fnTf*rmrof 

pfir prft pmt i snfafnr qp % pm PTifip *rt mr 

wfpmnft pfp piwtt x% qft nipt ft i 

[™ po W^J-7/niT rrp prf/tp- <ft/q mq 7 4/002904/ftTo] 

efto ptfin thj, pp-tj^r firP^nr 


Hyderabad, the 27th September, 1974 

S.O. 3401*— M/s. Wilson Biscuit Factory, 5*6-384/1, Nam- 
rally, Hyderabad were granted an import Licence No. P/S/ 
1743057 /C/XX/50/W/37-38 dated 14-2-74 for Rs. 3,500 
(Rupees three thousand and five hundred only) for the items 


[Part IT — 

(1) permissible varieties of Natural Essential Oils as p$V'~ 
April- March 74 policy up to Rs. 2,500 (Rupees two thousand 
and five hundred onlv) other than canalised and banned item 

(2) Thymol upto Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) foi 
import from General Currency Area with letter of authority 
in favour of M/s. Shakthi Industries, 10-5*21 Opp. to Police 
Mess, Maanb T^nk, Hyderabad. 

They have applied for duplicate copy of the Customs Pur- 
pose copy of letter of authority on the ground that the ori- 
ginal licence with letter of authority have been lost without 
having been registered with any Customs authority and utilised 
at all. 

In support of their contention they have filed an affidavit. 

I am satisfied that the original customs copy of the licence 
with letter of authority is lost and direct, that a duplicate 
Customs Purpose copy of licence with letter of authority 
should be issued to the applicant. The original Customs Pur- 
pose copy of the licence with letter of authority is hereby 
cancelled. 

[File No. W-7/SSI/NP/AM 74/002904 /Hyd] 
P. GOVINDA RAJU, Dy, Chief Controller 


*rrft?r 

3 1 ?FTFT, 19 7 4 

ftro 3402. — vnfr ^3T yfn; 5,3^11^^^ 

^PTTtT, 2— tT q?f ftmrf mrfbff % TPT^t Ijlft ^ sttttpt 

% f'w 20,000 ^ptpt irn^TOTfqt/mr/ 1829 104/ 

4 V/t^FT nfm/5o/3 7-38,frrfif 4— 3“ 7 4 fTijih fqrtrr mrr ^it i 

wxpr qfii ^pjfirfir qfrr % ^ 

^rrtTF q r ?ir^T firm ^ fV *rrw*r qfi ^ tftrtropr 

5fi>ir qfir tit *flr«?Tvpr qrftprrA- % qm ifft 

^tfrr fiw fipn tfV ?rt qf | sfir w 

TTTT^m MtfjJin sfftr wt ^firfir srfq 

trrqvTT^Ar ^ ijbt mfr[ 20,000 WT ^ fim 

i 1 

wfm ^ if ^ irfw firqi ^ 1 

A jf fV ^ ^rr^r ijtt tffirTDj^ srfir qf 
ft tflr fw?r |f fir 4 1 o t v^t 

srfir ^jfirfir qfir irift irnff 1 ^ miim 

[wwr *rrf/^fb/ 305 qq 414 / 171 ^/ 74 / 

wft/RTfr] 


vfo amrm ^rqf , fir4^qr 



Spc. 3(ii)] 

y =^= = 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


3707 


ORDER 

Hnnguloie, the 31st August, 1974 

S.O, 3402.— M /s, Dolly Di esses, Shnkti Mansion, 5, 
Uttaradi Mutt Road* Chichpct, Bangolore-2A were granted 
import licence No. P/S/1829104/C/XX/50/X/37-38 dated 
4-3-74 for Rs. 20,000 for import of Industrial Sewing 
Machines and spare parts, They have now applied for dup- 
licate copy of Customs Purposes copy of the above licence 
on the ground that the original of the above Customs pur- 
poses copy of the licence has been lost without having been 
registered with any Customs Authorities and not utilised at 
all and that the duplicate copy of Customs purposes copy of 
the above licence now required is for the full value of the 
licence Rs. 20,000, 

In support of the above contention the applicant have filed 
an affidavit. I am satisfied that the original Customs pur- 
poses copy of the above licence has been lost and direct that 
a duplicate copy of the Customs Purposes copy of the above 
licence should be issued to the applicant. The original Cus- 
toms Purposes copy of the above licence is hereby cancelled. 

(No. ITC /SSI/DI/C /305 & 414/AM/74/NC/NP] 
R. JAYARAM NAIDU, Dy, Chief Controller 


trrtvT 

ftTOTTC, 4 SWJKT, 1974 

VTo 3403.- TOfr 1 0- 5-264 WTRWR, 

jtroTPT- 2 8 TO tthtto *nrr T 'Xfcr-TO” 1 4 TOh firr 

^ ( 1 ) tTOto up qfiwfitFT T fTO 1000 wr (m* 

^nrt w* Trer) to FftM foro % qTffro to ( 2 ) 

1 0 0 0 W7 ( ^ totc tot utt ) to faTOr TO ^ wtft % 
f^TT Tpfjsftr TTifipt 10 - 5-21 *rro frrcrsrc * ^ 

JTTfaW q^T % 7Ti«c 2 0 00 TOT TO TO WTFT TTTTT 
qt/tm/l7422770/dt/q^T mpT/50/Y£PJj/37-38 f^TTT 7-1-74 

TOro Ppm to *tt 1 

qi fTO H: TT TO TtTTTTTO TOtT Tfn ^ TTC TTTOT 
qrt iTtimpr tTOft TO fro tottt TO TOtfn 

ftrtiT TOtott % to tt tiTOi ttTO fTOr 

Art 34 ?rr to t 1 

jgrpf % tTOt if TTTTO TO WTTOTT TlfaH fTOTT 

J t ft y 1% qTfTOTO TOT T TTT TOTTT qfi TT TOtvJW 

qfq TO rftr Pi4v< TOT p fir TWFT TO TOfUTOT 

qijc Tffrr to 'M’^’Prfq ^ftrrrv^F totItot srfir toTO TO toTO 

1 Trfroro tot % to ttTOpt to TOqrojro TOro 
TO ^ TO ■Jnrft £ 1 

[TTO WT- 1 4 o/n^T ITOT TO^/mr/fr/q TO 7 4/ 0 0 2 9 0 5/fc.] 


ORDER 

Hyderabad, the 4th October, 1974 

S.O. 3403*— M/s. Supreme Industries 10-5-164 New Basti, 
Ahmednagar, Hyderabad-28 were granted an import licence 
No. P/S /1742770/C /XX/5Q/W/37-3 8 dated 7-1-74 for 
Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) for the items (1) per- 
missible varieties of Natural Essential OiU as per Apiil- 
March 74 Red Book other than canalised and restricted upto 
Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) (2) Thymol upto 
Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) for import from Gene- 
ral Curiency Area together with Letter of Authority in favour 
of M/s, Shakthi Industries, 10-5-21 Masab Tank, Hyderabad. 

They have applied for a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence with Customs Purposes copy of 
Letter of Authority on the ground that the original licence 
with Letter of Authority has been lost without having been 
utilised at all. 

In support of their contention they have filed an affidavit. 
I am satisfied that the original Customs Purposes Copy of 
the licence with Letter of Authority is lost and direct, that 
a duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of licence with Letter of 
Authority should be issued to the applicant, The oriE/nal 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence with Letter of Autho- 
rity is hereby cancelled. 

[N o. S- 1 40 /SS f /NP /A M-74 /00290 5 /Hyd.J 

iotojto, 1974 

Too Wo 3404 .-^fr^lT ^q<l| T fl l 10*4-37/1 TOT, CT K tr spft 
WTO FT % TFT, ^TORTW-2 8 TO TPTRT *pT VfaT 
7 4 tTOYj % fir *7 ( 1 ) qTC^fl Fq qfrsrftJT 

T fm 1000 wi (T^rr tout TO 7 ^rar) to fare* % 

qrofTOr gqftFT (2)iOOOWT yxcn W7 TO 

fapffar TO % ^ftr % firn; TO^ff vrfipr 10 - 5-21 

to, mPTOrt Tr wr 2000 wr 

wtmr ?to 1 7 42773/TO/totot totot/su/to^t/ 37-33 

froro 8 - 1-74 TOm fTO t^tt 1 

WfTOK m TffqTTffTT TOto qf^T % WW 

qft TT^rfq TOthjto qTOrT srfir % far it irr^TT 

fTO fr ftr qiPTOlT ^ ^ TOTtT 

fTO ft TT TTf % I 

WTT TO ^ hTOt T TOTO TO FTTq'-Tq ^ffr^T ITOt (t I 

% if fV snfroir ^frTnTjT^ 

TOtot sffir Tf ^ ffitT TOr j fir ttiTOt to sTfiroro 

^ irfiT Tri#rr wjfirfq TOftjto TOt^t q-fir 

1 TOtoTT TOT % TfT TTWT # ^T Tftqr/^TO TOld 

qfir 7 ^ ^ Tffit 1 

[ fT^r TT^r 52/FTT ft ^T/ft 74/00290b/^l 



3708 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


ORDER 

Hyderabad, the 10th October, 1974 

8.0* 3404. — M/s. Nataraj Agarbathi, 10’4-*3 7/1 Masab Tank, 
Near Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Hyderabad-28 were granted 
an Import licence No. P/S/1742773/C/XX/50/W/37-38 
dated 8-1-74 for Rs. 2,000 (Rupees two thousand only) for 
the items (1) permissible varieties of Natural Essential Oils 
as per April-March 74 Red Book other than canalised and 
restricted upto Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) (2) 
Thymol upto Rs 1,000 (Rupees one thousand only) for import 
from General Currency Area together with Letter of Autho- 
rity in favour of M/s. Shakthi Industries, 10-5-21, Masab 
Tank, Hyderabad. 

They have applied for a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes copy of the licence with Customs Purposes copy of 
Letter of Authority on the ground that the original licence 
with Letter of Authority has been lost without having been 
utilised at all. 

In support of their contention they have filed an affidavit. 
I am satisfied that the original Customs Purposes Copy of 
the licence with Letter of Authority is lost and direct, that 
a duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of licence with Letter 
of Authority should be issued to the applicant. The original 
Customs Purposes copy of the licence with Letter of Authority 
is hereby cancelled, 

[No. N-52 /SSI /NP /AM-74 /002906 /Hyd.] 


¥Towr° 34 05* — ntoft urftn 10 - 5-21 s p fr ft i atf gfrrcr 

vi i Etiti <. tfBTR- JJ5T ( 1 ) 7 4 

jpprrc j ooo (mr ^nr wp nro) to 

ft fa* fw ^ ftn JTfr to (2) 1000 wn 

PtrW % tnw % Fur, 2000 (fr j^tr; *rra) *ft to 
fto 1 7427 7 7 /W/ro* 50/35^3 7-3 8 ftrcfa 

8-1-74 1 *rr 1 

TOtft ernsftn tft ft^Twrr toTur stItt tr 

imiTT qr ftmT $ fa SITtfo fifeJpT fa* 

ftrrr ft tot $ 1 

ipR T ft srrTOrr ft tot wt-to trfw farr 1 
ft tl JT fa *16" *J<T ft) h f tPTriUT H Pi isff ^ 
qk fftro ftnr g fa 4ft mrftn tft spjfafa fttJTrcjro: 

srfft ^rrfr TRft wrfar 1 nnftvr ^ ftlnropr srcftTT srfa 
y,n^ai\r nfr TRY ^ 1 

[*hWT TO" 141 /TOTO 1 q-rf/trit ftt/tj TO 74/o02907/|*<>] 

S.O. 3405.^M/b. Shakthi Industries, 10-5-21 Opp. Police 
Officers Mess, Masab Tank, Hyderabad-28 were granted an 


import licence No. 1742777/C/XX/50/W/37-38 dated 8-1-74 
for Rs. 2,000 (Rupee two thousand only) for the items (1) 
Natural Essential Oik as per April-March 74 Red Book 
other than canalised and restricted upto Rs. 1,000 (Rupee one 
thousand only) (2) Thymol upto Rs. 1,000 (Rupees one 
thousand only) for import from General Currency Area. 

They have applied for a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence on the ground that the Original 
licence has been lost without having been utilised at all. 

In support of their contention they have filed an affidavit. 

I am satisfied that the original Customs Purposes Copy of the 
licence is lost and direct, that a duplicate Customs Purposes 
Copy of licence should be issued to the applicant. The ori- 
ginal Customs Purposes Copy of the licence is hereby can- 
celled. 

[No 5-141 /SSI /NP /AM-74/002907 /Hyd.] 

T 

1 1 WJ1TL 197 4 

*rrc 3406. — nWt tpi t^jt 1 1- 2 - 9 e L> 1 rtw. *r?ft- 

TOft ftrtRTT tft frrm^r tjtt ft srifa-nro 7 4 TOfft T firp to to 

% (1) 2500 ¥fir (Tt TOT ftY So TOT) dV 

Fffad fiPFT % TjftfER ftr (2) 1 000 W 7 (TO ^JTT 

Hid ) ht* fftftftr toY m 1 h n fnu ^[4^ vi (4^ 

10-5-21 ^r, ^ 4 cm i a ^ to % 3500 

tto ^ ^ qt/tpr/ 1 743077 /^/fjPMsw/ 

50/^737-38 fam 15-2-74 f«PTT »PTT «IT I 

5TTf>TFrr to *fV ttEt % hpt 

TTf?T T fritr TR 51TUTT TT 

fw "ft ft? RlWlT TO T *TFT *J*T ^TO>T ftiXT 

fam wt Wr ^ 1 

mb it TfTTO-TO 4Tftr^ fatTT t I 

fi^d ^ ftr srrfew: to % pt ^ 

tonr ^rf | sflr fir^r ten {j ft: 

to % ^ TFjftrfir yrftr 

TFft mf^r 1 nfep to % nm ^^7 

^pfriR irfir u itt ^ mil'll ^ 1 

[jfwr/nr^-o?/^^ 1 !^/^ vn 7 i/003000/^o] 

tt^o sfyi^pjfv, ^ 

ORDER 

Hyderabad, the 11th October, 1974 

S.O. 3406. — M/s. Raj & Co., 1 1 -2-996/1 Habeebnagar, 
Mallepally, Hyderabad were granted an Import licence No. 



Sec, 300] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, ]S96 3709 


P /S/1743077 /C/XX /50/W/37-38 dated 15*2-74 for Rs 3,500 
(Rupees three thousand and five hundred only) for the items 
(1) permissible vanetiea of Natural Essential Ods as per 
April-Nlarch 74 policy upto Rs 2,500 (Rupees two thousand 
and five hundred only) (2) Thymol upto Rs 1,000 (Rupees 
one thousand only) foi import fiom General Cunency Aieu 
together with Letter of Authority in favour of M/s Shakthi 
Industries, 10^5-21 Masab Tank, Hyderabad 


They have applied foi a duplicate copy of the Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence with Customs Purposes Copy 
of Lettci of Authority on the giouud that the original licence 
with letter of Authonty has been lost without having been 
utilised at all 

In support of their contention they hove filed an affidavit 
T am satisfied that the original Customs Purposes Copy of 
the licence with Lcltei of Authority is lost and direct, that a 
duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of licence with Lettei of 
Authority should be issued to the applicant* The original 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence with Letter of Autho- 
rity is hcieby cancelled 


[No R 97 /SSI /NP /AM-74/003000 /Hyd] 
P GOV1NDA RAJU, Dy Chief Ooritioller 


fit foafr 17 brwc 197 4 

vto 3 40 7. — fniw, fai totto, fai, fit ftefa fa 

3 3,53,000/ Wt fid" ^TKrrT HTTfaTt ffo fa/*fn;/208865 ■» 
faffa 9—5—7 2 5(TR faqq ^PTl 47 I faffi *Tl fa ^51 faffaPT 
fawr far fa spjfafa srtfa % ffa hh wjr T7 tnfaq 
ffan | fa ^77 fafim fam qfa fartn^ ^Rrfaq, 

R qfapT qrrfa far 23,49,598/- wt fa snfisTT dtRT 

^nfrr % arm $t fit t i fir wfa 

*Y RP74T fi far TT lTTW q^r faqr £ I ff 

jt fa tto fa/^n :/ 1 o 8 8 b 5 <■> far i*p 9 - 5-72 

fa ^prr ffiffan ffaOT qfr XTFTRTq Tf Tf ft far 
tpjfafir xrfaw fa wrfa fa fafa 1 

fiTBT 7T OTFmrf^T Sb*TTfi (ffiWT) 5T1T5T Tfo 17/55 
fftnfa 7 - 12-55 fa tTPT 9 (fa fa ) ^rrr tttt firr qfafi 

grr wfa^mfY ffiiTO, trt truytto, ^ mi, fit f*^fa 
fa srrfa fen; w. tt fa firr faffaE? ffaRprr fffa 

fa ifTT^ir ft i 

[?TW 5, 73- 74/fa ^1^112] 


misplaced after having been registered at Calcutta Cus- 
toms House and partly utilised to the extent of Rs 23,49,598 
In support of then contention, the applicant has filed an 
affidavit on stamped paper T am satisfied that the original 
Exchange copy of import licence No G/R/20RR656 dt 
9 5-72 has been misplaced and duplicate Exchange copy of 
the same should be issued to the applicant 

In exercise of the poweis conferred on me bv clause 
9(cc) of the import (control) order No 17/55 dt 7-12-55 
as amended from time to time the undei signed Cancel the 
Exchange copy of the said import licence issued in favour 
ol The Dncctor of Railway Stores, Railway Board New 
Delhi 

LNo 5 D/Rly /73-74/GLS/1121 


tnfai 

fit fa?# 1 9 19 7 1 

3 4 0 8 — *T*Nrt JTPRT T7 ,,r, Ttfafi‘ fir 5H q o 

8 5 60 0tTOT;Trtfm7^ 3 
1,07,000 if ^ 

TTO lfY/<fr/24 5J7 50/4Y/^ u^/47/irq-/ jr* 3b 24 4‘73 

tkth fwr wr m i ^Y Tftr ^ 

^pjfTfr ttp^Y ttz * fat tt Tmrfar % ttt mm t ? 
fam b fa tjtt RmfiTj^T fantY 

t tttt w> ww fat fmiT wr t 

TO ft | I ^rt^T t t tt*T W7^ ^ TlfapT 

fam % \ t f fa Tirtrr qt tfcrwv 

fTOdt 5rfd* t to m ^ tY t fa I'mfY q^fafa 
wr ^Y ^rrt ^ ^rtY ^nfat i 

TmT-rmr tt qwmtfer mro (fatfa^) 5ntvr 7 

1955 ftTPTT 7-12-55 % 9 (tY fa) 97^ fafarrtf 

Tr 3TtPr qffa jtr -Tfaiprntffa ^rrmr?T 
20/5 t infant t- n-mq r ^ mYfa 

fafasR JtnTT qrnoritn^r fao, tY mfa faq 1 ^07,000 
^qt (tfpt fam -^1) t wttt fa/^n/ 24 sj 75 o/ 
fa/mw nT^/4 7/m5r/3 5-j6 faTfa 2 4-4-71 tfT ^ farrn^C 
ffarrfa 5tfa fa | 1 

[*To 2 mf/7^/7 3-7 4/fa rpT nrr u g] 

ORDER 

Ncv- Delhi, the 19lh December, 1974 


[Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

S,0. 3407. — The Dnector of Railway Stores, Railway Board 
New Delhi, was granted an import licence No G/R/2088656 
dt 9-5-72 for Rs 33,53,000 He hag applied foi the issue 
of Duplicate Exchange copy of the same on the giound 
that the original Exchange copy of import licence has been 


S.O, 3408. — M/s Jndian oil Corpoiation Ltd Bombiy were 
granted an import licence No G/O/2453750/C /XX/47/ 
H/35-36, dated 24 4-1973 foi Rs 1 07,000/CH for "he import 
of 85600 litres of Mobilment 33 Pi op Brand from the UK / 
USA They have applied to this office foi issue of a dupli- 
cate custom purpose copy of above mentioned licence on the 
ground that the original custom purposes copy has been 
destroyed in fire having been registered with Bombay Custom 
House and not utilised at all In suppoit of tb is the appli- 
cant has filed in affida\it I am satisfied that the original 
custom copy of import licence mentioned above has been 
destroyed in file and that duplicate copy thereof should be 
issued to the applicant 



3710 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [P A rx II — 


In exercise of the powers conferred on me under clause 9 
(cc) of the Import Trade (control) order No. 17/55* dated 
7-12-55 as amended from time to time the undersigned cancels 
the original custom purpose copy of Import licence No. G./O/ 
2453750/C/XX/47/H/35-36, dated 24-1-73, for Rs 1*07,000 
(CIF) for the import ol mobilmeni-33 prop. Brand under 1TC 
schedule 20 /V issued in favour of M/s. Indian Oil Corpora- 
tion Ltd. Bombay. 

[No. 2-I/Cont/73-74/GLS/l 16] 


wtvr 

19 for ttpr, 1974 

fffo frt o 3 4 09 . — mm fao fflfafiH 

fafUR, Tt % 7 5 0 0 STTHT 5TT ^ 33 

ft 12,375/-^ TTOT TT7TTO *WT ^T/?TT/ 

2453747/?fl/tT^ C^r/ 4 7^/ 3 5-3 6, 2 4- 4- 1 9 7 3 

faqT *PTf TT I THH STTffW ftt SFjfafa tffaTHTRT inftlpT Hfa 
ft fa*t WHTH l T‘ 7 ’ M faq 1 fa <i 1 ftt JJyT 
wUr 5 tG Tfannw *PTtrfvFT, if TtfhfcT ttpI tfh; tptt 
TT^fpT 47 hr hr *r ^ $ 1 wr nft ft 

3r % Qfa vrmff Trfw farr 1 1 * ^ fa 

^ferpJTT ^RPT ftt ^ JT^tTsPT 3 ffir HFT ir 

£t 2: tffa tm $ fa trfaw ftr T*ft ftf ipjfafr 

srfa Trfr ftr ^rrft mfatf i 

w*m hht Htfrfro othrt witth: (fwr) hr?t hw -17/ 

1 955, faTTT 7-12-5 5 ftt 3WPTT 9 (ift *fr) ft 5RTT 

nftmn Gpr stor *pt hhht htw Trarfar 

fro, Ttfa^fr ftY jtrtft stptr 20/5 ft 

1 2 ; 3 7 5/- ^ (wt h>tt wr) ft fait faft 

WTT: ^/tft/245 37 4 7/fft/tC*T mw/47/^ 3 5-3 6, faw 

24-4-73 ftt TTLFT Hfa ftt ^TTT $ I 

fa* i-?rrf/v?e/7J-74/aft^tpr 115 ] 

tRo iffo ^^sfttTTH, 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19th December, 1974 

5.0. 3409.- -M/s. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Marketing 
Division, New Delhi were granted an import licence No. 
G/0/2453747/C/XX/47/H |35-36, dated 24-4-1973, for 
Rs. 12,375 only for the import of 7,500 litres oil OM-33 
from the U.K./USA. They have applied to this office for issue 
of a duplicate customs purpose copy of above mentioned 
licence on the giound that the original customs purpose copy 
has been destroyed in lire having been registered with Bom- 
bay Custom House and utilised partially. In support of this, 
the applicant has filed an affidavit. I am satisfied that the 
original customs copy of import licence mentioned above has 
been destroyed in file and that duplicate copy there of should 
be issued to the applicant. 

In exercise of powers conferred n me under clause 9(cc) 
of the Impoit trade (Conti ol) order No 17/55, dated 
7-12-55 as amended from time to time the undersigned 
cancels the original Customs purposes copy of import licence 
No. G/0/2453747/C/XX/47/H/35-36, dated 24-4-1973, 
for Rs, 12,375 feif) for the imnort of oil OM-33 under ITC 
Schedule 20 /V, issued in favour of M/s. Indian Oil Corpora- 
tion Ltd , New Delhi. 

[File No. l-I/Cont/73-74/GLS/1151 
N, C. KANJILAL, Dy. Chief Controller. 


Ttfhr »«rr ^ 

( HTOffa 'HiM^ rpwqT ) 

Tffafat, 1 3 19 74 

*r° HTo 3410 — 'JTTTTT ft T7"JTTT *TRT IT— ^ 3, 

2 faTfa 13 1972 ^ tfTTfvPT ?TOTSffa rihftfi RT farRT 

wiw (vrKTpr irpr^r sctp^t) wftr^TT tfr mw 

fartT (1 1972 wftn^TT T7?f ^IT ^171 ft^r *tptt 

STTT fw 3TRT ^ fa fDPT 9T 

yffir wrf q?rm t rfa^fa fan mr | i rpn: *rfa qfarfar 

^ % far SF, 1 TPfT^ 1974 7T 

TPJ f\ nnjfl': — 

franvdt irit Tfa wrt 

Tfo ^ TT9WT #fT 

1. IS: 1 601-1960 rnr (i) 1000 

OToW »PT*ff ^ Iffar 

Wlft Ho 5,00 Tfa 

#R Hft wrf ; 

<FT 3 t-WTT ^ (2) 1001^ 6000 

fafafe air HHTTHtff % 

fall Ho 3.00 

Ufa ; 

(3) eooifr 11000 

m HWTf % 

fa^ Ho 1 . 50 

Hfa WTt iffa 

(4) 11001 vtt* 

T- 

«HT^fr%fa^ 50 

3tfa 1 
[tf O Tf tnf it/ 1 .3: 1 0] 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY & CIVIL SUPPLIES 
(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi the 13th December, 1974 

S. O. 3410. — In supersession of the then Ministry of 
Industrial Development (Indian Standards Institution) notifica- 
tion No. S.O. 1118 dated 6 Aprill972, published in the Gazette 
of India, Part If— Section 3 Sub — section (ii) dated 13 May 
1972, the Indian Standards Institution, hereby, notifies that the 
marking fee per unit for diesel engines bus been revised. The 
levised rate of marking fee, details of which are given m the 
following schedule, shall come into force with effect from 1st 
July* 1974. 



Sec. 3(iiJ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, .1896 1711 


THE SCHEDULE 

SI. Product /Class No. Sc Title of Umt Marking Fee per 
No. of Product Relevant Indian unit 

Standard 


1 2 3 4 5 


1. Diesel engines IS : 1601-1960 One (i) Rs, 5.00 per 
Specification engine unit for tire firs 
for performance 1,000 units, 

of constant speed 
internal com- 
bustion engine 
for general pur- 
poses. 

(ii) Rs. 3.00 per unit 
for the 1,00 1st 
unit to 6,000 units; 

(iii) Rs. 1.50 per 
unit for the 6,00 
1 st to 11 ,000 units 
and 

(iv) 50 Paise per 
unit for the 11,000 
1st unit & above 


[No. CMD/1 3:10-1 3] 

fTTo 3 4 1 1 — TO* *r *F7fT* *TTO 

(tofft FtS’T) faFm 1955 % fafro*r 5 i Rfa fo m ( 1 ) 
t Am IS : 188 5 (m 35) — 1973 7TO - - 

^sfr; *ftr IS : 1 h 5 (*tt* 39)^1973 Frapr 

*t7i ^tronfa;, ^ wtto % srfcpjftnT 

tT*T TTm ft fe IS : 1895 (*T* 2 ) — 1 96 1 VlTOPTfl ; 
TOt* Ftto vrpr* *r* TI * 3 ^ 3 , 

(ii) frrPr 2 9 Fl ^"IT# 19 62 fr^qr rnr 

2976 19 f*TOP:, 1962 TOFT T5* ?T, TO TT f**f 

**T ft l IS ; 188 5 (*T* 2 ) — 1 9 6 1 if tt *t tfFsmff IS : 
188 5 (*T* 3 5sfl* 39) -IS) 7 3 if mF** far*T **T ft [ 

[*fo ^\ry^r\/ 1 x 7 } 

S.O, 34U, — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of 
Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks) Regulations 1955, as amended from time to time, and 
consequent upon publication of 1S:1885 (Party XXXV)— 1973 
Electrotechnical Vocabulary; Rotating machines and IS ; 1885 
(Part XXXVIII) — 1973 Electrotechnical Vocabulary: Trans- 
formers, it is, hereby, notified that IS : 1885 (Part ll)— 1961 
Electrotechnical vocabulary; Machines and transformers, details 
of which were published under notification number S.O. 2976 
dated 19 September 1962, in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, Sub-section (ii) dated 29 September 1962, has been cancelled. 
The requirements of IS ; 1885 (Part Il)-1961 have been covered 
in IS : 1885 (Part XXXV and XXXV IIT>_ 1973. 

[No. CMD/1 3:7] 

WFo WTo 3412, — TO* TO* *r Wfftr* VTPTfpT *TTO 

tott (toto* *ro) 1955 fTfro * 5 % 

( 1 ) % Am IS : 1 98 9- 1 9 7 3 75rfTO Am 

■mPff % Am ^fff ^ ftftrfe * mrm * 

toto fwr ^nrT ft hr IS : 3737-1966 mft tot 

Tffhff ^ srfro ^ far* to£ * fa F or fa r fam% 

Eqft TOlfafl *T* IT 3, 2 F^t*7 iq *r4 

19 6 7 *T WTT TO m 9 1 3 fTOfo> 7 *tt 1 9 67 % 


aaAa w[ fa^rfro ^ feR **r ft **** ’ 1 toto! 1975 

if mm "5TDT l IS ; 3737^196 6 * K1 *£ mii A TOTfrTO 

TOOT* ^ IS : 198 9-1973 * #llf+H TO *t ft I 

[TO TfVnTrvlc./i;v7] 
rT l3 %o I^TR, 

S. O- 3412. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (l) of 
Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Marks') Regulations 1955, as amended from time to time, and 
consequent upon publication of IS : 1989-1973 Specification for 
safety boots and shoes for mines and heavy metal industries, 
it is, hereby, notified that IS ; 3737-1966 Specification for leather 
safety boots for workers for heavy metal Industries, details of 
which were published under notification number S.O. 913 dated 
7 March, in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section 
(ii) dated 18 March 1967 , has been withdrawn and stands cancelled 
with effect from 1 January 1975. The requirements for boots 
prescribed in IS -.3 737-1966 have been covered in IS: 1989- 
. 1973. 

[No. CMD/1 3 : 7] 
A. R. Gupta, Deputy Director General 


(vrnf Ttii* fwur) 

fcmr, ii 1974 

1*0 V(J° 4313, — unto tffo SITTo Vo [$/ 

(fwr* Am Frhnrmr) nfiiFni*, 1951 (1951 

65 ) qft urn c> % jm mtm aa mm 

tt* $$ tref fqrr* (TrtWfci) fmm, 1952 % 

fm s( 1 ) v n^Tp- TTi^fTi tfVr 

^frr % ’qrvt frvn* * ^ f^fTSR 

m 1 9 197 6 mr ~t Frt nwr ^ mfx ^fhr 

Amm* % nrt?r *0 fanbr 20 1974 $ mftt 

5TTT mrfhft tfTTRt % Ajf\A WAA1 AAAAATA ^sfWf 

3f=t f^rrm qfpi^ mx topi fmm *rn7fr ft ?iV at, fttPT Ffr ft 

fr tot mt* * fr*r — 

TO3 ^TTt^T ^fV tt 0 M 1 < o TFFTTf * IT o 

2.5 % r^TPT Trferf^r "ft TPFfr, — 

f, 2 5 s tr 

Ti-nf’ra, *ittt nrqriT, to*. 

TOT* nftr *l*f^*r *?TFT*, *t f^ft I 

[TTtfio *0 4- 4?[? 3 -** 0 f\o] 

rnfo rrr|-^ *7*, *lTO 

(Depailmcnt of Heavy Industry) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1 1th December, 1974 

S.O. 3413, — IDRA/6/16. In exercise of the powers confer- 
red by Section 6 of the Industries (D&R) Act, 1951 (65 of 
1951), read with rule 5(1) of the Development Council 
(Procedural) Rules, 1952 5(1) of the Development Councils 



3712 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28^ 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


(Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
anpoints, till 19th June, 1976 Shri Tirlochan 
Singh, Deputy Secretary in the Department of 
Heavy Industry, Ministry of Industry and Civil 
Supplies, to be member of the Development Council 
constituted by the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of ITeiw Industry Order No dated the 20th 

June, 1974, for the Scheduled Industries engaged in the 
manufacture or production of Machine Tools and directs 
that the following substitution shall be made in the said 
Ordci , namely 

In the *nid Order, for entry No, 25 relating to Shrl 
P R ITMsgupta, the following entry shall be inserted, 
namely : — 

“25. Shrl Tirlochan Singh, Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India, Department of Heavy 
TndiKtrv, Ministry of Industry & Civil Supplies. 
New Delhi 

[F. No 4-47/73-MT] 
S M GHOSH, Jt Sccy 

(wTTfft* 'fix ftr<rm) 

qf fa-eft, 197 1 

wtro mo 341 4 — *r^rrr, srftPT qfror ttfubrnn, 

1952 ( 1 9 52 *PT 74) VI UTn 5 V mfEr ^fetRT Vq 
M H2f f VjfSPTPlT SPT m^PTT V V' f*rV fVV rpr 

9T ^fRPtT 3TPTR % ’T T ( J T D V h - f^H K TtT vfV 7 * ZTpT 'rHTypT 

Vt pr frm sq^R: %■ ?r rfrx Mrffr V *fr 

Vptt, Q/T7 jttt ~jrf! trfbrEnrn Vt ti i j i r V JPT 

VT WPT $rr ^ Vt faVWf Vt V^T tfftTCTTft % 

^ V, 12 1974 ^ II 19 75 

V VrVT fTr Hi nfTrNm fr) Vt qV Vt 

V fVV tim ^tpt Jr i 

2 tr^m 5 km itfjftt T 7 ! wV V srVH | ft> 3^ tUfWr 
3?r Wwt tt «mn=R rHrr sft wtt mVrq am *m- 
IHFT IT fVtf ^TTT? | 


fa* 12( 22)-ITTfo^o/7 i] 
tfto TPTPpTR , *TWT uFi'H 


(Department of Civil Supplies & Cooperation) 
New Delhi, the 12th December, 1974 


S.O. 3414, — The Central Government having considered in 
consultation with the Forward Markets Commission the ap- 
plication for renewal of recognilion made under Section 5 
of the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) 
by the I udhiana Grain Exchange Ltd., Ludhiana and being 
satisfied that it would be m the interest of the trade and also 
in the public inter est so to do, hereby grants, in exercise of 
the powers confered by Section 6 of the said Act, recogni- 
tion to the said Exchange for a further period of one year 
from the 12th December, 1974 to the 11th December, 1975 
(both days inclusive), in respect of forward contracts in cot- 
tonseed 


2. The recognition hereby granted Is subject to the condi- 
tion that the said Exchange shall comply with such directions 
as may, from time to time, be given by the Forward 
Markets Commission. 

IF, No. 12(22)-IT/74.] 
K. RAMANUJAM, Jt Secy. 


[Part II— 


fT*Vt, 4 fWF, 1974 

*TTa iqTo 3 415 — - U^TTR Vt TO SpfPT VWT £ fV 

rfrrfed h to ft hr ^^nrr trit If irto tpf? aft 

n-q III to V qfrroq V tittttot to q*rr qif fro 

Yq otTOt 5ttt fTOrT snVt TOVp i 

tfH trq to xpfPr ffnrr ft fV rhfr *rmr Vt T jftrpi 
$ ErV Tr?^qT?ra trmjm h irffrr r ^Er V srftrrrr xfiTpr 

^RTT (TRWT' ^ I 

5TT, ( r 5frr ttVpi % tt 

q+T) 1962 (l962 tTT 5o) Vf UKI 3# ^TPT 

( 1 ) TRT vrfcfiVt TT OTFT *Trr^ fn V 

r tVpi ^ >cdwrr , rr u i TTr Vf%?t 

t 

■jmTtf Ff to vffrr ^ VtJ ^rf^, fOt % 4W 

qTV'T^rm ^ faro W5 ^ wfW 

IffT mTnr, fTni^r tfR 3T r *TTa, thrjtt nr, *rVkr-9 Vt 

rn Vt nr%T 4 2 1 feVt % tfhrr imr 1 

pYr drrr wYt ^tttt ^ ^ «ff 

qrYnT fr iRn m|di t fr ^rVt Ft vt fWt 

%%7TT $ Iff ^fr T^JT— III TO % W ^nftTT 

ffEr^n: 1 


^ l nj — rp^TRT fTTHT — "^TT TT^'t*T — V 



WT 


rmrdf 

'-HnvuS 


197 

0 

05 

50 




120 1 6/6/ 7 4-q^fo^ T*f] 


MINISTRY Of PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 
(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 4th December, 1974. 

S,0. 3415, — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that it is necessary in the public interest that for th« 
tiansport of petroleum from Flare Point to G.G.S. Ill In 
Gujarat State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission; 

And Whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying 
such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the schedule annexed hereto ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 3 f the Petroleum Pipeline 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), 
the Central Government hereby declares its intention to ac- 
quii e the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent 
Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 



3713 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


And every poison making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
Icaal practitioner. 

SCHEDULE 

RIGHT OF USER FOR PIPELINE TO FLARE POINT 
GGS. IK 

State : GUJARAT District : KAIRA Taluka : MATAR 
Village Survey No. Hectare. Arc. P, Are. 

Pansoli. . , 197 0 05 50 


*r ( 16 fro^TT, 1974 

SO 341 6> — TT. WGJT m To 5 FT 1 % 

fa tffafro to ittw* $ fa ff 

w 187 WT IBS TO % qfrT^T $ fa^ 

titt TO tot TTfrfro TO srofa am firerf i 

vfa to Tq TOtr tffai ft fa totT far fa *r sfatro 

% Pro Tjfir iTinrafar *t <ifsmT stfara 

tott Arrow ft i 

mr, to it srofa % to 

AfafaTO 1962 ( 1962 VI 50) TOT 3 TOKTRl 
( 1 ) IKT TTrr vrfwft TO jfafa TOfa jit ^Tjfal UTTOT ^ 

TtTOt TO AfaTOT AfapT TOfa 'FI WIT flTTOT TOT ffTTf «ftfTO 
%TT ft I 

t-TO fa ^ qfir ^ fer^T T>f sqffa, vjfrr %;ffa wr 
tto faofa % fTO mfai toft sTfarofr, TO tot srr^fifa TO 
totTO, TO^TOt srtr topi, tottott tit rArr-9 to 

’fa rfafa it 2 1 fafa ft •fhr^' to HfaiT i 

far nm Arafa tot ttto «q% fafafer : to fa topi 
TOn fa TOT TO ^TOT $ fa TTOt ^TOTf *iT%Vr: fa TT fafa 
faTO *TOTOfa fa JTT^T I 

ffa ^TT 187 ?T 188 TO TTTOTTTO fatffa % fan | 

tito - faro : TOtt tfjto - fafTvro 

TOr ?fat)fUT sw ^TTO TOrrcf ftffar 

1 2 2 0 0 9 7 S 

TOTT 9 0 27 69 

[WIT 1 2 0 1 0/ 1 6/ 7 4-TO miT TO] 

New Delhi, the 16th December, 1974 

S.O. 3416.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for Ihe Iranspoit 
of petroleum from d.s. well No. 187 to Well No. 188 in 
Gujarat State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission; 

116 01/74—5 


And wheieas it appears that for the purpose of lading such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section ( 1 ) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government heroby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Mainte- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every pet son making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in pci son or by a 
legal practitioner. 


SCHEDULE 

Pipeline from well No, 187 to 188 
State ; Gujarat Distiicl : Broach Taluka: Ankleshwar 


Village Survey No. Hectate Are Centiarc 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Sarthan 

, 122 

0 

09 

75 

Tolava 

. 9 

0 

27 

69 


[No. 12016/16/74-L&LJ 


fFT0 mo 3 417* — TO farffa WTOT fa TO 
fadT ft fa srtrfTO it TO *rrrow ft fa T* 7 ™ *r fa to to 
%-gs & fwfa yq; tftTO *- 

69 ^^iRTO to ^ Rp 1 . twt 

tot jfa mrtT tkt fror£ irpft i 

to-, to ^Rtt toR ft ^ froi^r % TOfar 

^ Epnr ^ Xjfa % ^TOPT TT ^TfaTOT 

rnror; ^ i 

icpr: to TOtfaro ^ % ufaTR ttt 

■CF^T) «rf«RTTO 1962 ( 1962 *FT 50) tfTTT 3 WinT 

( l) TUT UlfaiTt TT TtflT TOT TTO7T7: R 

wfar tott mro to sttt 

farr 1 1 

fa to ^fa ^ fadTO TOf ’rfa *jfa % 'frr 
mi ^ hhkt fa^rfa % far w ^rrfvi+Ttl Tr tot 
ffa trpfar Unfa tfE 

TO q fa^ THr tR R 2 1 fort % ^ ttTOtt i 

wYr fbrr ^ tto toft to szrfa fafafa^:: to ^ toft 
ft W ^ ft fa TnqR JIT faiTp 

fafa wfer i 

\ 



n t H tpr tfr -66 sfr ft farfa 5 ^ Tt 

^ ^r-59 Tfr ft i”T snw frofa % Htti 

■^T : TpHTT f^RT ’ WTRT TFprf . 


Ufa 



i*fTT$ <fr 

ITWlf 


9 

0 

15 

29 


ios/s 

0 

02 

4 0 


106/1 

0 

01 

08 


10 fi /2 

0 

0 3 

48 



u 

00 

8 1 


1 62/ 1 

0 

15 

0 4 


f4w 1201 6 / 17 / 74-tpT 0[*Y RT-i] 


L974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II — 

51 V ^ srffa ^Prr ft fa farT Tir^r u fasfa % sqfao 

^ fan; rrqffar r *jfa 4 tt4pt qftmr qfaq 

jfpprr eittoff ft 1 

*tt, <r. q^Tfcm ttwti^t (*rfa 4 wfm % qfaiFF vt 
*rto) ^fafanr, 1902 ( 1 9 g 2 50 ) "ft urn 3 4V wjpt 
( 1 ) ffi < 1 skf *nfafaf ^t spfi'M qrfa gtr ^pjfnr ^p^tr 4 ^hm 
^t4H ^tt «rftr*bp *rfar ^ wir *iwt ^ tttt rnfaq 
faqr jit ; 

fa ^ ijfa iffaTOS Ttf *qfa>, ^jfa 47 fffa TT|T- 
r W fa^fa % fan; srm STTfaufa ^T, W HI£iRw *fa 
WiK,fak sfrc far*TPT T f *TT T T J tfa sfaiTT-9 ^ ^T Ffa 

^ qrffa 4 2 1 fart % 4far *tf *faqr 1 

tfft: farr ot^t ^rr^rr 7 * s^fai fafafasr: «ft m* 

®t*^n fa wqT ^t^tt ^ fa nfat Tjqqri <=qfawi‘ jfr qT fa44 
fafa ^qqqpft qn>u i 


3714 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 


n+T 


.V ^?; , 3417 — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
Sniff' « eU £« f £? <?? NKA9 to GOS line connecting with 
k I u r ? m 2 s ™-66t° GGS in Gujarat State Pipelines should 
be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission; 


^ ift ^ifr d>wf *T^qr irar %-3« to ww 

f«i'5i'j % fop I 


And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
F* 1J "° S J *t j? necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 


New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 

D-°ut th f r e T Cll °" 3 , of , the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqul- 
sition of Right of User m land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 

fhf right o^uTeTTherdn 6 :" ***”* * in ‘ eDti ° n t0 act > uire 

in i er ®? ted in tho said land may, 
i^Jlr 2 , 1 i ays . fr ?/ n tbe date of this notification, object to the 

H ofl £ * h M^f, e ii n n lln n r the , la - nd t0 the Competent Autho- 
nnLro* Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Mainte- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

CT ,^ffl d -fu Cry J? e .v 0n jnakmg such an objection shall also state 
legal prSitfier * ‘° b ® hMrd in Pers0n or by a 


SCHEDULE 




State : Gujarat District : Mehsana Taluka: Mehsana/ 

Viramgam 


Village 


Mehmcdpura 
Balsas an 


Survey No, 

Hectare Are 

P- 

Are. 

. 9 

0 

15 

29 

. 105/3 

0 

02 

40 

106/1 

0 

04 

68 

106/2 

0 

03 

48 

Cart Trark 

0 

00 

84 

162/1 

0 

15 

64 


[No. I2016/17/74-L & L-I] 

Wt) Wo 34i8__qT T: JfT+rv ifff tty flrTT 

^ f«r ojWfjpr E m | ^ ^ ^ 0 

t P f0 frs*rt ^ 1 ; T%'36?PF^fftfwr ^ qfi^ ^ fitpr qr^T 

&*r rm rnyPpr ^ qpfPT am frorf wnl TrfeT i 


■ iprrpT 


n 1*3931 : 

wtf/^TrtrtTT 


faT 

prtT n 

rtTT < 

«fr 

n^TRPT 

93 

0 

40 

03 


91/1 

0 

12 

48 


9l/2 

0 

13 

20 


84/2 

0 

14 

40 


84/ 1 

0 

15 

26 

JIHHI+H 

250 /j 

0 

17 

76 


249 

0 

2 G 

16 


248/8 

0 

03 

60 


248/7 

0 

03 

60 


[flWT 12ni6/l7/74/74JT5T PIT tr^-2] 


S.O* 3418. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum from GGS/CTF to Well No. NK-36 in Gujarat 
State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Mainte- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 



Sec. 3(u)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 1 , 1896 3715 


M ' — ~ 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner. 


SCHEDULE 


For Ikying pipeline fro n COS-Cum-CTF to Well No. NK-36 
State : Gujarat District ; Mehsana/Ahmedabad Taluka : 

Viramga m 

Village 

Survey 

No. Hectare 

s Are 

P. 




Are. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Chalasan . 

. 93 

0 

46 

68 


91/1 

0 

12 

46 


91/2 

0 

13 

20 


84/2 

0 

14 

40 


84/1 

0 

05 

28 

Balsasan . 

. 250/ L 

0 

17 

76 


249 

0 

26 

16 


248/8 

0 

03 

60 


248/7 

0 

03 

60 

[No. 12016/17 /74-L&L-1I1 


HTu 3419 — 'XT: T Xi? Xtffa 

RtdT $fa XX* $fa *pP7d TT^T X "5 36 

X Xt X faf ^-S 3 W % TfaxyT % faq WT 

X<T rf«lT flTtrfaff XX 5 TR>r 3 TTT fasqf ^rrfV <TTf?n I 

sffa itt srffa ftrr t fa faft Hrrrf qX n*ft 44 

% %rr mr^rraa sppjtft XxFfar ^fX % qn; vfcmx wfarr 
MvOTT *(MW+" ff I 

tET t TT <WTf^T (^fX ^ % vOvmt *T 

trfirPr^T 1002 (1902 q>r so) qX tnrr 3 qX stopt 
( 1 ) sur infatfXt q?r toft qfar jt ^nftq - X otX 
■grrtftq- hpt wffar ^ qrr stitt murr n^mr Xrfad 

faqr £ 1 

tth fa XFm* vrt *dfa; w r ^fa % Xfar ttct- 

fa^rX t Prtr mtfr srfaqEX far ^ % 

*nXFb fa^fa sffa SWT fa* TfoT -9 tX **T 

srfrnjw * Trfa'r X 21 farm % Xm ^ #1 

Xfa trfaq t^X tp aqfad fafXfaes qs XY t*ft 
qrfarr fa *rt q* ^tstt ^ fa aqtppr- ?TqT faXtfXfk 

BqTTTTPft tX TFPT l 


5®rt TW 36XXtfanq;XiTd% S3T*FWT TT^Tfa^XV fan 
trtct . ^[jRPT fadT . di^T ‘ iromf 



WSTO ^PETT 

p pt* 

qo^nxc* 

qto^o 

^TlX^o 

qsmFFT 

250 

u 

03 

12 


246/4 

u 

0 1 

80 


24 b/ 1 

0 

04 

44 


24 1 

u 

0b 

GO 


[X^sm 12010 / l 2 / 7 4 -tr^r ttu«* q^=f ] 


S.O* 3419.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the trans- 
port of petroleum from D.S. 36 to CTF to NK 53 in Gujarat 
State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Naturnal Gas 
Co mniission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent 
Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner. 

SCHEDULE 

For laying Pipeline from Well No. 36 to CTF to NK-53 
State ; Gujarat District : Ahmcdabad Taluka : Viramgam 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare Are. 

P. 

Arc. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

Balsasan . 

. 250 

0 

03 

12 


246/4 

0 

04 

80 


246/1 

0 

04 

44 


244 

0 

06 

60 


LNo. 1201 6/12 /74-L&L] 
Tffiwsft, 17 fiFT^F, 1974 

*T°WT<> 3420. — TT m Sfafa faTT |faXfa 

far it it? srrmtf $ fa % oft *fr ^ Tfamr % 

*n ^ m ^ fan ^ fcr 

mi sn^Rrv n^r far 57TT fwti ^rfaV TT%n 1 

tffa qd: q^ TRftrT | fa tTT^TT TY ^ 

^ fatr 'jfa ^ TT ^rfdTTT 

(^jfa iT TT 

*T^T) ^fafaqR, 1962 ( 1 962 *PT 50) tJT r T 3 ^T«nTT 

( i ) jm 5TdrT iqfafat qrr srtfa qrtr %^pr tott ^ 

^rr tTfw qrrY qr xrrenr rnfad 

faqr t \ 

to# fa r *jfa it qnf »qfaT; ^ % sft% 

fam % fan Tffnr snftmfr, ttt 

^tt#^ dT (TfaTT, faqfa «fk ?tqrvrTd sr-mn, qrqrr^nr 
m Vfar-9 qY ^rfagw qrt T 21 fart % fifax qrr 
TfadT 1 



3716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


tfqr wTtfq qmr wrrf^r ft Pi ft pa ^ wq 
fr w ^frr | fV qrnfr ?pnrrf *qfaqqr: ?fr m ftnft 

ftfer sqwRft *f2r qrtfq i 

qfOTq 

o tafVo qqo ¥r z\ tpp, wtn wfafcRr 

% fqq TTTfqTTT^^ 

^pjiT'— ^^J'JRRT n i — vfiTftl 'Wttf /*ft*i mi/faPTT 

TT^FTT 


qft 

qqVr qw 




t^r 

1396/<fl- 

0 

06 

15 

'ffa 

2 9 6/fr 

0 

04 

20 


449 /qf 

0 

1 1 

5 5 

VJHKI , 

8 6 3/^ (Of) 

0 

03 

00 


8Bl/qT (7ft) 

0 

00 

48 


8G2 

0 

14 

40 


580 

0 

03 

75 


[wrr 12010 / 14/7 4-r*t tr^r/i] 


New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

$.0. 3420. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that it is necessary in the public interest that for the 
transport of petroleum from GGS Sobhasan to CTF Kalol 
in Gujarat State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & 
Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying 
such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

Nqw, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (13 of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (30 of 
1962), the Central Government hereby declares its inten- 
tion to acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object 
to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the com- 
petent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construc- 
tion & Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by 
a legal practitioner. 


PROPOSAL 

Additional land for pipeline from G.G.S. 
Sobhasan to C.T.F. Kalol. 

State : Gujarat Taluka/Kadi /Kalol/Mchsana 


Dist : Mehsana, 

Village 

Survey No. 


Area 


Saij . 

. 1396/P 

0 

06 

15 

Pioj * 

. 296/P 

0 

04 

20 

Ambasan . 

. 449/P 

0 

11 

55 

Adundra . 

863/P (Road) 

0 

03 

OO 


861/P (Road) 

0 

00 

48 


862 

c 

14 

40 


580 

0 

03 

75 


[No- 12016/14/74-L&L/I] 


[Part II— 



Wrto WTO 3421. — qq: ^ Sftffa ffTT frftr 

h- 3T^ | ftr TTJIT ft trq % e 8 ?T "jft 

^ % nfanpr 4r faR qm-*nvr ftq qqr srrcftftq; 

WPTFT £T7T ^rufr ^T%tt I 

ftft *FT: q^ jpfft % ftr *WTlf Jfft ftmft % qftftpT 
% fWJ ir qftPT ft TT qfiPT 

mi ^ ^ l 

wq:, Trrrm^q ft ^nfpr ^ srtwn- ^ 

wfftfftqq, 1902 (iy62 qr 5o) tn^r 3 qft 
( 1 ) aur 3T^rr qftftt *rrr jpt>t ^rCr gq ft Tqft 

^FfFT TT wfwrr wfw ^LTft *Tr tTHT RRPT rrfl^TTT fttfftq fW 

I I 

ft *jfft ft fjpnrar qftf *qftq, 

% ftrft ftrarft % ftru srnftq 

d«TT STlffdT ftq WTftft, fft*rW tfR qVTPT, 

tt¥, ^fbTT-9 ®fft tffy^TT qft TTfFl ft 21 fftftr % vfPTT qrr 
R%^TT I 

wft t*?tt ^TTtitT ^ 7 % qrar ?u *rftq fafftfr^: q^ ftf qrqq 

r ft; >fqr ^ g^rqrf sqftdqr; qT ftrfr 

ftdh *qqqi6 RTlft l 

€r i^r tt^- ^ 6s h Tfr ^ ^ % ftrq i 

TT^q — to fttTT — ’tr^qqnrK — fmrTm 

qrq 4^qr S[o 

qwrcPT 17 9/l 0 04 08 

179/2 0 08 64 

169/6 0 05 88 

[turn 12016/14/7 4-Turq^q^/II] 

S.O. 3421. — ^Whereas it appeals to the Central Govern- 
ment that it is necessary in the public interest that for the 
transport of petroleum from d.s. NK-68 to G.G.S. in Gujarat 
State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying 
such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the scheduled annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of the section 3 of tho Petroleum Pipe- 
lines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its in- 
tention to acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com- 
petent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construc- 
tion & Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or 
by a legal practitioner. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

v 

SCHEDULE 


For laying Pipilinc from D.S. MK— 68 To GGS — Line 
Connection from NK—66 To GGS. 

Slate- : Gujarat District ; Ahmedabad Taluka : Viramgam 


VilDgc 

Survey No. 

Hectare Area 

P. 

Are 

Balsasan 

. 179/1 

0 

04 

08 


179/2 

0 

03 

84 


169/6 

0 

05 

88 


DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3717 


2 

3 

4 

5 

9 5/5 

0 

00 

72 

19 4/5 

0 

OJ 

20 

18 4/4 

0 

06 

72 

183/3 

0 

06 

00 

uri f* 

0 

00 

60 

208/ l 

0 

10 

8 0 

208/2 

0 

03 

60 

210/tfr 

0 

oe 

20 


[No. 12016/14 /74-I.&L /I] 


[Wf 12016/1 4/7 4-Cr^T tpif it ^T/lII] 


3 >12 2 . — zrt: %^fnr ’’rt er ^Ttt 

$ fr WWW $ fa TTJIT ^ ^ 5 1 

ft ^%-6 0 % f*FT 'TITT ft*=T 

STfiTd'Ti ftfl" ’ffnfHT IRl 'jTpfT TT%^ I 

*FT: W Sttfar S>TT £ fT HTVtt *fft fftSTft ^ 

STJffaFT %■ f^H7 if arfrrT ^rfft if ^wFr 

’RffiRTT ST^TT W ^T-JfVTO | I 

ITT, OT 'TIT'TT^ (^fir ft ^ ^f>TTTr^ 

VT fffaftPFT, 1962 (l962 50 ) tTT*T 3 T? f 

( 1 ) ar^r wlftiftf qrr srftpr *m;ft s?u 

TOHT ft ^TtfTT rftT qPtFFK *rfftT Ttft TT StFTT tmFT 

T^inr f^qr $ 1 

% wt *jfft ft ytt r *rfft ^ 

^Prft ttvttw fft^Tft % fan preTr miwTff, ft^^n 

TnTfftr ft*r fft*W tfk sr^r^T, ff* 

*ttar-9 tf wftr^Tr *ft TT^tor ft 21 faftr % ftfar 

1 

*At^t urafo- ^cr^fT tt ®rftrr fftfftfftt* ^ ftt 

*VIT ft: TOT ^ TT^FTT ft fV ^TFfft ^Tf TO fcHV i: ff) qT 

troft fafft TO**rpfr *ft wr 1 


W tTH rnr %-Sl if it n*r ^-60 ?TF, T[W TTFT TO fwft 
66 ft 3ft it to qmm^ frorft % fau\ 


77^7 : ^pRR ferr - WW3JK ^TFJTO : 


FFT ^T?9T7 ftw 


ar^RFT 14 7/3 

142/2 
142/l 
143/ I 
14 3/3 
142/5 

18 6/2 
195/1 


I tiwirf *ft- i^»rr#f 


0 

06 

94 

n 

0 1 

86 

0 

02 

00 

0 

08 

Rft 

0 

10 

80 

0 

OR 

88 

(j 

(1(1 

7 2 

0 

03 

36 

0 

06 

60 


S.O* 3422. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that it Is necessary In the public interest that for the 
transport of petroleum Irom d.s. NK-51 to NK-6G in Gujarat 
State Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying 
such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the scheduled annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipe- 
lines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares Its in- 
tention to acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com- 
petent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construc- 
tion & Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard In person or 
by a legal practitioner, 

SCHEDULE 

For laying Pipeline from D.S. NK — 51 to D.S. NK — 60 
Connecting with main line from 66 to GGS-cum-C.T.F. 
State : Gujirat District : Ahemdabad Taluka : Viramgam 


Village 


Balsasan 


Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P- 

Are 

147/3 

0 

06 

84 

147/2 

0 

01 

86 

142/1 

0 

02 

00 

143/1 

0 

08 

88 

143/3 

0 

10 

80 

142/5 

0 

08 

88 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

72 

186/2 

0 

03 

36 

185/1 

0 

06 

60 

185/5 

0 

06 

72 

184/5 

0 

04 

20 

184/4 

0 

06 

72 

183/3 

0 

06 

00 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

60 

208/1 

0 

10 

80 

208/2 

0 

03 

60 

210/8 

0 

07 

20 


[No 12016/14 /74-L&L/11] 



3718 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


if!To»RT° 3423. — TO Flf ftTT 

ftTfecT R FF ?T1W ^pT Ud # TPf%-6 6^ 

ft ft/Ftr/ft ft ?mft w Sftftm % qf^F % fan mvi rrr^r 
fa mj y if7fT^T fa trrtftr sttt ^Tft i 

ftr to qr ftm §■ 1% T^ft mrot *T firerr^ % 
q-ftlFT % fftr SFTCjft *f ftftr *jfh *f TTFOT ^T 

ftwrr ftftr vmaFr £ 

TO, ’EFT 'tftEm TT^FTm (ft^T if ^ SfftUnT 

F7T qftr) qRftm, 1962 ( 1 962 ^FT 50) ft SFT 3 ft 
^rtrnr (1) sm smr ftftft *ft uftF wfa f q fttfhr 

^tt^k ^ ttfIt vr ’srftm?; *rfftr strr wrr 

stottf ^frErcT faqr ft i 

far ott r ^fF it f^F5 ftf *qfro r *jftr % ft* 
qrwtrTa from ft fft; top? ftftrnft ftr ?tft $1$- 

ftrr fa trrftF, fftrf°r ftr ttanpr totf, totjtt ttvwt^r -9 
ft V* ft fTTTfa if 2 1 ftft % r ftflT *PX tfftTT I 

ftr dFT STWT *fftr TW W*l *rfft frfftft?: it$ ft ^r«rr 
•hvn wtf?t *i$ni ft" T*ft gr*if ^tEptct. ft ft f*r»ft 

ftrfa sfw^ ft #f 1 


[Part % H— 

1 2 345 


dUpF : ^rpfr 


fftrr : 

FjTFFTT 

127 

0 

09 

48 

126 

0 

10 

44 

125 

0 

0 4 

20 

136/2 

0 

1 1 

04 

136/1 

0 

06 

60 

123 

0 

03 

00 


0 

0 0 

72 

119/2 (q) 

0 

06 

96 

119/2 (ft) 

0 

12 

00 


0 

00 

96 

111/1 

0 

11 

76 

fi 6/ 1 

0 

05 

40 

88 

0 

19 

20 

*f) r£ 

0 

00 

60 

92 

0 

0 3 

64 

in/i(ft) 

0 

05 

64 

92 

0 

10 

44 

93 

0 

0 5 

76 


FW 6 6 ft ftofto qfio % UToftoqio (tf} ^ift) Tfr 
TTTT^TT^F fftftf % fft* i 


TT^F : 


dFTTT : 

f>rr 

• FW'Tf 

ftr 

wi wt 



1 

2 

J 

4 

5 


32 

0 

10 

20 



0 

01 

20 


01 

0 

23 

-10 


03 

u 

06 

1 2 


10 

0 

1 7 

40 


09 

0 

16 

92 


08 

0 

33 

48 



ftrwT Eftt 



16 6/2 

0 

05 

7b 


167/2 

0 

09 

24 


1 ft 0/2 

U 

07 

20 


179/1 

0 

Oft 

28 


176/8 

0 

05 

50 


176/9 

U 

02 

00 


17 6/ 10 

0 

10 

00 


211 

0 

07 

32 


212 

0 

03 

84 


177 

0 

22 

08 


[WTT 12016/14/74-^^^/4] 

S*0. 3423. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that It Is necessary in the public interest that for the 
transport of petroleum from d.s. NK-66 to GGS/CTF Kadi 
in Gujarat State pipelines should be laid by the Oil & 
Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for tho purpose of laying 
such Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipe- 
lines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its In- 
tention to acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person Interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com- 
petent Authority. Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construc- 
tion & Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be hcoid in person or 
by a legal practitioner. 

SCHEDULE 

For Laying Pipeline from Well No. 66 To CTF Cum GGS 


(North Kadi). 

Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare Area 

P. 

Are 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

State ; Gujarat 

Tahika ; Meh^ana 

District: 

Mehasao 

Mermamipura , 

, 32 

0 

10 

?0 


Cart Track 

0 

01 

20 


01 

0 

23 

40 


03 

0 

06 

12 


10 

0 

17 

40 


09 

0 

J 6 

92 


08 

0 

33 

48 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


Balsasan . 


Ghalasan 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1 974/P AUSA 7, 1806 3719 


2 

3 

4 

5 

Taluka : Viramgam District 

; Ahmcda 
bad 

166/2 

0 

05 

76 

167/2 

0 

09 

24 

180/2 

0 

07 

20 

179/1 

0 

08 

28 

176/8 

0 

05 

50 

176/9 

0 

02 

00 

176/10 

0 

10 

00 

211 

0 

07 

32 

212 

0 

03 

84 

177 

0 

22 

08 

Taluka ; Kadi 

District : 

Mehsana 

127 

0 

09 

48 

126 

0 

10 

44 

125 

0 

04 

20 

136/2 

0 

11 

04 

136/1 

0 

06 

60 

123 

0 

03 

60 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

72 

1 19/2(A) 

0 

06 

96 

1 l9/2/(B) 

0 

12 

00 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

96 

111/1 

0 

11 

76 

86/1 

0 

05 

40 

88 

0 

19 

20 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

60 

92 

0 

05 

04 

91 /1(B) 

0 

05 

64 

92 

0 

10 

44 

93 

0 

05 

76 


[No. 12016 /14/74-L&I../I] 


tftr farr trtt %x sirFfpr fafafijisr uv_ 41 w 

f^rr fir xm sr? = ?r?'iT fr ft? sqfimr Ft nr farwt 

fiftr wq^rnfr i 


WR ttk 4 TT=r/^fr ",<5 srk sttift irfc ?r ^tTY- i 

fTT im »nTR % f*rcr 


rpq - ■ ^pfTpT 


fTl^TT ‘ 'tiT'if 


f^TT : ^RTTT 


to 


'T'TTO 


qt xnri 


72 

0 

0 9 

4 5 

71 

0 

OR 

30 

TOTT 

0 

02 

10 

6S 

0 

0 2 

70 

69 

0 

13 

65 

68 

0 

16 

20 

67 

0 

04 

50 

wqrfr «ft TRFff 

0 

01 

3 5 

95 

0 

08 

25 

75/1 

0 

0 5 

25 

75/2 

0 

13 

05 

t*nnfl ’FT TTTrfT 

0 

01 

05 


1201 0/9/7 4-TTPTo TO ^ojl] 


WiTci^TTo 3 4 2 4 — ^ ’ *NjfiJT rp I < *FT y cflcT ^tTT $ f% 

sftafH % ^ tootf $; fo ^nroTf tto n qrr^ ^ 

sfr ft t^r/* ft it ^ to qmft wr ™ qrpft- 1 ^7 Stjt- 

fwr * 'TftTlfr % f*Ff TOT ^TT^T TO tfTTfTO 

^ FT Uvsi{ ^Tpft ^ l fflo | 

yfir, to spfRT $r tWt r i rpf t q^t f^ro - % snft^TT 

% hi o Tt °rf^PT uq’TOi qrr "^rbi ^ i * 

^ffTT qvrqr jiiwt £ i 

TFl:, *T* q^tfwr w r WT^TT (*jfa *T ^T^f’FT % TlfOTK ^T 

scrfa) 1962 ( 1962 *FT 50) ^ TOT 3 q?r TOTTTT 

( i) tot srm TOft »ro ^ tosto toto ^ tot 

TOTPT ^T ’TfOTF’ 'qf^TT TOT ^T TOTT TOFT ^T^TTf qrf«TH 
tw t J 

JFT^ TO T^T ^ % ft% 

TO mVT ftmn % Rro ton not mfrott, TO TOqr 
sufH frofar *flr TOfto toft, +m.'ju tto c> 

W «rf^«RT ^ ^T 21 Mt ^ Tpf^rr » 


5,0* 3424. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum from Jn. Point to GGS/CTF North Kadi & 
Jn. Point to Kadi-1 in Gujarat State Pipelines should be laid 
by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipeline^ under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Main- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 

And every pet son making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner. 



3720 


THE GAZETTE OF TND1A : DECEMBER 28, 1971/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


SCHEDULE 


For laying Pipllinc from junction point to G G S /G T.F 
North Kadi & junction point (o Kadi-1. 


State : Gujarat 
Village 

1 

Clialasan 


Taluk a ; Kadi District ■ Mchsana 


Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. 

Are. 

2 

T 

4 

5 

72 

0 

09 

45 

71 

0 

06 

30 

Cart-track 

0 

02 

10 

65 

0 

02 

70 

69 

0 

13 

65 

68 

0 

16 

20 

67 

0 

04 

50 

Cart-track 

0 

01 

35 

95 

0 

08 

25 

75/1 

0 

05 

25 

75/2 

0 

13 

05 

Cart-track 

0 

01 

0 


[No. 12016/9 /74-L&L/I] 


^Xo WTo 3425. ■ — W u K Tt ftcfh ftdf ft fV 

rftriw ft w t tt^t ft T-ee ft tittitip-ii 

^ % TfFrfr % f wr ttvt ^rnpr ttt nm srrrfftr 

UnTfPT 5TTT TFTt TtfiftT | 

tftr srefVer ^ It ft+fl srrvftt Tt fftwift spr'faT'T 

% fau t^N 4 ft T^FT *jfft ft TTftbT TT trflW 

TTTT JTTTTCT $ l 

uta, snr ftjflwT qrrTTTTT (*jFt ft OTfor % srfum: ti 

*pfa) *rfW*Fm\ 1962 ( 1 962 Tf 50) UTT 3 TT- 
efht ( i ) 5TO 3 t^t nrf^TTft tt ^fpr totp 

ft +} OTfPr Tr ®rfft tp ^ fan tt rrci i ^ i 

ftrfw fWr t i 

*vf? fr ftfft ft f^pny *fft£ *rfH % fttft 

tttwtft f^HTH t Ftp mwr Trfrp?Tft tt ^tt snyftrn 


fr rrq- TP37TT %-G6 *f ift 7ft f^T -1 1 ^ TO TOPT flraPT $ forr 

■rpjTf « iprTPT f^PTT ftfFTFTr TPJTT : WPT 




i 

'ft'T 

*ttt{ 

403/5 

0 

05 

85 

4^Hi 1 TT T i^dT 

0 

01 

12 

514 

0 

04 

35 

5 16 

0 

01 

00 

5 1 3/l 

0 

01 

00 

51 5 

0 

1 1 

40 

5 1 7 / 3 

0 

04 

50 

517/5 

0 

1 1 

40 

5 1 7/8 

0 

03 

45 

^TpTTTt TT TTPTT 

0 

0 0 

60 

53 6 

0 

04 

8 0 

535 

0 

06 

67 

* 1 1 /j TT vffTT 

0 

00 

75 

664 

0 

08 

1ft 

GG5/1 /q 

0 

04 

50 

6 6 5/l /aft 

0 

04 

05 

6 6 5/ 2/^ 

0 

04 

80 

6 5 0/ 1 /T 

0 

02 

85 

659/l/5ft 

0 

03 

53 

659/3 

0 

03 

60 

6 5 9/2 

0 

00 

50 

659 

0 

06 

75 

712 

0 

15 

90 


[OTTT 1 2016/9/74-^^^/11] 


S.O. 3425,— Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum from d.s. K-66 to GGS-II in Gujarat State 
Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Com- 
mission; 


And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 


New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquiie 
the right of uset therein; 


fta nmfnr, fftVFr sfrr *wpt jtwt, ^ftr, ctor-e Tf 

ft Tt ft 2 1 fftftt T ftfar ttt i 

v(\t rtm urtfT ^rrft trtt ^ fafftfr^ ftt FTT 

IT^IT fa TTT ^ TORT ^ fa TOTft ^TTTf «TfrTW f) qr 
faftf fafft writ ^ wfifT i 


Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autho 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Maint* 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baioda-9. 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner. 



3721 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28. 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 


SCHEDULE 

For laying Pipeline from D.S. No. K 66 to GGS. II 
State : Gujimt District : Manana Taluka : Kalol 

Village Survey No. Hectare Are. Pjj 


Aie 

403/5 

0 

05 

85 

Cart Track 

0 

01 

12 

514 

0 

04 

35 

516 

0 

01 

00 

513/1 

0 

01 

00 

515 

0 

11 

40 

517/3 

0 

04 

50 

517/5 

0 

11 

40 

517/8 

0 

03 

45 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

60 

536 

0 

04 

80 

535 

0 

06 

67 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

75 

664 

0 

08 

18 

665/1 /A 

0 

04 

50 

665/ 1/B 

0 

04 

05 

665/2/B 

0 

04 

80 

659/1 /A 

0 

02 

85 

659/1 /B 

0 

03 

53 

659/3 

0 

03 

60 

659/2 

0 

00 

50 

658 

0 

06 

75 

712 

0 

15 

90 


[No. 12016/9/74-L&L/ILI 


mo STTo 3426 — m: fafaE TOT fa EiJ SRffa ftTET | fa 
EfafaE ft Iff mw I fa TpprpT TM ft 1 8 i ft # fa rpfi 
e* ftfafanr % % fan qrvr et^e ftE eet % 

mfaE arrr fkmi nfa Eriftq i 

%flr EE: E1£ Spfpr faET | % ftfa ETTfa fa fanft % fffaaR 

% faft topjfa ft eFet qfft ft eteTe Err fairor 

qfaE ETET vilWtf \ \ 

*TE:, ETTT ETEE (faft ft ^TElE % ^rfft^rTT E 

<T+E) faWmr, 1962 ( 1963 ET 5o) fa WPJ 3 fa SWITT 
( i ) ffirr eett fawrf et ee)e Efa pr fafaa ?n^nr ft ^rft 

wfTE ET H'fVEK qfEE wrrft et *TTET ETEE EEfflKT fttfftft 
faET | I 


«^1 

fal 64 ft fa fa 7T Efa^qiTTETEH" fsrwift % fan 
Tm : TnpTT Elr-pr>i : faET ' u $ u M 1 


EtE ^TEF ftw E XflT fa n] 

* <rrrf 


EEWET . ,826 0 09 23 

827 0 11 25 

829 0 15 38 


[fasET 1 2 0 1 e/ 9/ 7 4 -i^t q** ee-III] 


S.O. 3426. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum from K-164 to CTF in Gujarat State Pipeline* 
should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section ( 1 ) of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Mainte- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9, 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by n 
legal practitioner. 


SCHEDULE 


For laying pipeline from K-164 to CTF 


State : Gujarat 

Taluka : Kalol 

District 

; Mehsana 

Village 

Block No, 

Hectare Are 

P. 




Are, 

Dhamasana, 

. 826 

0 

09 

23 


827 

0 

11 

25 


829 

0 

15 

38 


112016/9 /74-L&L AH] 


Eirf fa 'zwx ijfft ft fama* faf wrfar, ee faft % ftvft 

EiTT *TTVT fTOTft % fan qr^E WE ETfa+Tfa, far EET ET ffffa 

far trnfrr, ffarfa sffa ft^rrn eete, w^tt fr*, ETfa r -9 fa 
EE fafajEET fa ETfaf ft 21 faff ^ ftfar ?rrT qfaTT I 


VToWTo 3427, — EE: fafaE ETETT fa E^ Eftfa ^ET fc fa 

fafafar ft e$ $ fa Tette tde ft fa 1 7 1 ft fao fao 

VII EE ftftfaEE fatEJE ^ fan H I far EET 

ETidw far atete 5TO famt Tiftt Etfaq 1 


ftET 5TPfar '-rrrft ETET TTT «Efar faftfa^: Ef ftt EEE 
VfaT fa *ET ^ ^ fa ITtft ?JETrf ®EfaTE: fa ET ffaff 

fafa «EEETfa fa ETfaT l 
116 Gl/74-6. 


Kjftr ee; E^r Efar fan I fa faff mrfa fa fa^ft % ee^e 

% fan ft eRe ^fft ft tt faftETr 

fanT ETTET ETETfEE $ I 



3722 


ft. ftjrferpr qrwwf (qfe ft T FfeFR tt 

W^t) ^F^m, 19 62 ( 1962 *FT 50) Tt (FT 3 Tf FTOFT 
( i ) tft !ttf irrPPT^ft 'ft *r*mr tr £q fesm fttf ft wr 
wrrr tt qferF qfrr Tfe tt fttt ftwt utifht fttfR 
fen & i 


[Part ^1— 

- -■ ■ ' 

And every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal Practitioner, 


SCHEDULE 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, J974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


W fe FTT r *jfe Ttf ^TfTT, -FT «ffft ft fttft 

tftttut frotft ft feF FTtftr *rcnr snfaTT^t, ftsr ?t*tt 

ft*T FTTHT, feftfe Trtr tTTVTPT 3 RTFT, TTWT fTY, ^FVrr -9 ftf 

FfejFTT ftf Yfefe ?t 21 felt ft ftftF TT qftn I 

tffe rhFTT FlfeT Tfe TRT ?F wrfftT fafftfe?: TY Ft T*R 

fe^TT fft 'FTT *T?f FRTT & fft TRtftt TRTTt ffT FT fefe 

fftfa ^t^Frfer ftf i 


ft nq- FW ^T- 171 ft uft oft tttt^YII TfT TT^T^ni’T fTOTft ft feTr 
TRir : trfiT f5RT ’ UTtffeR dhnTi ; TftffeF 


TPT 


TO’T tfwn 


^FF U FF f 


^ tt 

ff£ 


894/2 

u 

2ft 

42 

tt 0 

00 

30 

109 3 

0 

01 

00 

1094 

0 

22 

65 

1097/8 

0 

07 

9 5 

1097/7 

0 

05 

25 

1097/6 

0 

07 

05 

1098/1 

0 

22 

45 

109 8/3 

0 

04 

20 

1100 

0 

07 

94 

1103 

0 

08 

10 

1104 

0 

12 

90 

1107 

0 

09 

52 

[fit 

12016/9/74-0^ 

nu¥ 

mr/ 1] 


For laying Pipeline from D.S.No. K-171 to GGS-VH 
State : Gujarat District : Gandhinagar Taluka : Gandhinagar 


Village 


Uwarsad 4 


Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are. 

P, 

Are. 

894/2 

0 

28 

42 

Cart track 

0 

00 

90 

1093 

0 

01 

00 

1094 

0 

22 

65 

1097/8 

0 

07 

95 

1097/7 

0 

05 

25 

1097/6 

0 

07 

05 

1098/1 

0 

22 

45 

1098/3 

0 

04 

20 

1100 

0 

07 

94 

1103 

0 

08 

10 

1104 

0 

12 

90 

1107 

0 

09 

52 


[No. 12016 / 9 / 74 -L&L /TV] 


WTO FT- 3428 .— TO ftfeF TRTFTt JR WlT $feT ft fft 
FTtItF Tt TO FTTFTT ft fft ^SRTTT ft ft- 1 6 3 tt ^ft RT7 
T^TF TT ‘t^tfern ft qffTTFT % fen TTFT FTR fer n«TT Sf lf dftT 
ft*r Fiftfe tft fesfe Tiftt ^rfftrr i 

ftfe to JR srftfe ftm ft fir *Mt *mrt ftr firyift % nnW 

% ferr rTri^pj ‘4 ?PT^ft if Tf%T *[fft if Tfefe TT FfeTF srfTO 
TTTT FPFTO | | 


S.o. 3427. — Whcieas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum fiom d.s. K-171 to GGS Vn in Gujarat State 
Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commis- 
sion; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

New, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section’ ( H of the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines [Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
rhe right of user therein; 


Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
withm 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & Mainte- 
tenancc Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 


SRT, FT ft^tfeTO TFWTFT ("♦rfe ft WTfe ft FfeTTT TT 
tUfe) FfftfeTT, 1962 ( 1 9 6 2 TT SO) Tt UFT 3 YWH 
( 1 ) 5FT 5PPrf PTfefef TT 5pfpT Tfefe M * T F , T Ffef 

; TWPr TT TfferR qfecT T“fe TT qTTT tTTTT rrqr^FT fefw 

feFT $ I 

TF? fe *3Trt ’>jfe if TfS FTT vjfq T ?ft% 

TRWTTT T feu ITTferfe, fef TTT ^ l ^ fdT 

fer FUTF; fferfe qfe tPrUTTT TdTT TTTTTR tTt R^Tf-9 Tf 
■ufe^FTT ^ TFfer ft 2 1 fee ^ yfm q%qr I 

qfe TT^tT TTft TFTT feTT fVfftfeF; TR T^R 
TfeTT fe TTT TF ’TFTT £ fe ?jTTnf <^| fal VI * Tfr UT feftf 
fftfe ^TTTpfT ^ UPUT | 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 3723 



1 6 3 fft fWi?r %■ f*w 

TW * fjr^Ti . Tlt«fr?Pn‘/^rfHH , f dUj+l . WUT 

TRT TTJffKf 'ft 17 


1000 

0 

04 

75 

1001/2 

0 

05 

70 

1002/2 

0 

06 

3 7 

1003 

0 

07 

80 

1004/2 

0 

01 

OU 


0 

00 

75 

100 5 

0 

10 

43 

137/1 

0 

05 

25 

135 

0 

24 

25 

133 

0 

01 

00 

134 

0 

11 

25 

128 

0 

09 

00 

129 

0 

01 

35 

127 

0 

0 8 

05 

103 

0 

33 

5 8 

102 

0 

08 

0 5 

101 

0 

19 

20 

^fTT TT77TT 

0 

01 

09 

108 

0 

01 

65 

t^pruft ^rr TTOtT 

0 

01 

00 

72 

0 

06 

0 0 

71 

0 

16 

65 

47 

0 

1 1 

34 

46 

0 

0 5 

70 

do 

0 

13 

50 

53 

0 

00 

75 

51 

0 

03 

0 0 

52 

0 

U 6 

30 

5 7 

0 

0 6 

3 0 


fTOH 12016/9/7 4-^^^5] 

fro <fto 


And every person making such an objection shall also stale 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner. 


SCHEDULE 

For laying Pipeline fiom K-163 to CTF, Kalal 

State ; Gujarat Dist : Gandhinagar/ Mehsana Taluka : 

Gandhinagar/ Kalol 


Village 


Setlha 


Dhanaj 


Survey No.. 

Hectare 

Aic. 

P. 

Arc 

. 1000 

0 

04 

75 

-1001/2 

0 

05 

70 

1002/2 

0 

06 

37 

1003 

0 

07 

SO 

1004/2 

0 

01 

00 

Cart Track 

0 

00 

75 

1005 

0 

10 

43 

. 137/1 

0 

05 

25 

135 

0 

24 

25 

133 

0 

01 

00 

134 

0 

11 

25 

128 

0 

09 

00 

129 

0 

01 

35 

127 

0 

08 

05 

103 

0 

33 

58 

102 

0 

OS 

05 

101 

0 

19 

20 

Cart Track 

0 

01 

00 

108 

0 

01 

65 

Cart Track 

0 

01 

00 

72 

0 

06 

00 

71 

0 

16 

65 

47 

0 

11 

34 

46 

0 

05 

70 

50 

0 

13 

50 

53 

0 

00 

75 

51 

0 

03 

00 

52 

0 

06 

30 

57 

0 

06 

30 


[No. 12016/9 /74-L&L /V] 
P. P. GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 

^trWrT-T HL i JIlJl^imB M— i m ufct. .JK1V3H* 


%ftx TfrqTT 


S.O. 3428. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that it is necessary in the public interest that for the transport 
of petroleum from K. 163 to CTF Kalol in Gujarat State 
Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Com- 
mission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such 
Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in the 
land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exeicisc of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (t) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acqui- 
sition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), 
the Central Government hereby declares its intention to ac- 
quire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to the 
laying of the nipelines under the land to the Competent Autho- 
rity, Oil & Natuial Gas Commission, Constiuction & Mainte- 
nance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9. 


(psrn^r fom) 

1 0 fn Wl C 1974 

m ° WT 0 33 29. — % VR^vi’4’ 309 tfffr 1 4 8 ^ f J 

( 5 ) % 5TTT wPl!U| TT SpfFT ipr tf\r ¥rrnfPT 

Tbsrr sfir tfrerr brwr if if 

sfk qvtoRF, % Tn^nit qrr?r % mr^- 

&m ^«rT (fqftwr nfT^rqf) f?m, 1044 ir rfh; 

u vm v 4 % firq fT fmTJT £ ; ’TPI'T — * 

1. *rh*Fd sflT — 

(1) "Or^T Tit (PrbP*TT Tfanrt) 

fmrFT 1974 *r^r ^tct i 



3724 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


[Part II— 


(a) 4 Pfpt ttwt % smftra* p wr* ftr ftrift 

ft i 

a, ft*rr (fafft^rr qftrof) Pnm, 1944 ft fim 2 % 
(4?) ft (^r) £r } — 

(v) (iii) ft "45 trfwrfT ^r*rr ft wrr qr nfir- 

■rm, W not srrft ; 

(v) in' (iii) % fftnfftfad w( ^mr — 

"(iv) 'prt ftftl ftfaftrct [uwft ft 

H*ara % vnl 4R Tp | «rpTt tt; ftiftJT flWTCt 

*4^1 0 ^nr^r tffftfft % ^ mi 1 


[fto q^To i 4 oi 2/5/7 

t^to ^/r vrrfe^n, pt ?tTt* 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING 
(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 10th December, 1974 

S.O. 3429. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to article 309, and clause (5) of article 148, of the 
Constitution and after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor-General of India in relation to persons serving in the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Central 
Services (Medical Attendance) Rules 1944, namely ; 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may 
be called the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Amend- 
ment Rules, 1974, 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 


2. In rule 2 of the Central Service* (Medical Attendance) 
Rules, 1944, in sub-clause (A) of clause (a) — in item (III), 
for the words "that authority”, the words "that authority, 
or” shall be substituted ; 

(b) after item (iii) the following item shall be inserted, 
namely : — 

”(iv) the Chairman of the Central Government Emplo- 
yee’s Welfare Co-ordination Committee at station 
where such Committee are functioning, in relation 
to the Central Government employees at that 
station." 

[No. S. 14012/5 /74-MC) 
N. S. BHATIA, Under Secy 


Tt 19 ftwx, 19 74 

4 tt° nio 3430. — mr trfsrfom, 1956 

( 1 9 5 g 4*102) ftfsnrr 3 «pT ^rerm (1) ft**r («r) ft 
ft $tq 0 ttser JTHTTTTPt o 0 t^r o ftfir^r 

(xirm) arnr 28 trrot, 1974 ft trreftfa 

fftfftw ft tnrr |; 

err w, wfftfft** ftf «nrr 3 ftt 1 tt rmi 

ft 

ftt 9 i 9 60 ftf trfft^rr ftw 5- 13/3 9-^ 1 4 

im rrtft *fU. f^rhrftnr ^rnfrtn=r wft $, w— 


T*Rf ^ “WTTT 3 ftt TItJTXT ( l) ft (*) ft 

wfrr OrVrfftrf' tfWv ft <Rnhr w tfarr 40 ftU ^rft ftftftrcr 
3TfftftCTt ft *Tft fTRfW^rT HWT TfftflCTt P W*, 
•TPT^T — 

r< 4 0, TTo po 7J3PR , 

sjtJHpM, rrq-o tt^o 4fWT TTtUr, apf, 

fw f^wftrwr ?TTt" 

[ft° po 1 10 1 3/l/749TTto4to?fto] 
udl ■fiRT, jptt trffter 

New Delhi, the 19th December, 1974 

S.O. 3430, — Whereas in pursuance of clause (b) of sub- 
section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1956 (102 of 1956), Dr. B. Rajgurti, Principal, VS.S L Medical 
College, Burla District Sambalpur (Orissa) has been elected 
by the Sambalpur University to be a member of the Medical 
Council of Iidia, with effect from the 28th August* 1974; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Gov- 
ernment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/ 
59-MI, dated the 9th January, 1960, namely : — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Elected under 
clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 3 , for serial No, 
40 and the entries relating thereto, the following serial No. 
and entries shall be substituted, namely : — - 

“40. Dr. B. Rajguru, 

Principal, 

V.S.S. Medical College, Burla, 

District Sambalpur (Orissa), 

Sambalpur University.” 

[No. V. 1 1013/1 /74-MFT(C)J 
MRS, SATHI NAIR, Under Secy. 

is firmer, 1974 

▼T 0 WT 03431 . — R 7 R (qmftjffl irfsmTfWf itfr 
4^41) 1971 (1971 tt 40 ) ftf srrcr 3 irer 

vrf^nfr wbr ^ gtr ftr^ nmr imnr 

ft TTJrrtJ 3TJT? fwnr ?fo TTo wt* 1263 

in xrffo, 1973 % ^W*a? fr, v ^: — 

^ *rfb^rr ftt ^rr^fV ft ww 

wtft, *nrfq; 


trfarnft q^rw 

^rnrrft' Rrnfr ft inrl 



<tf^5dEaT ftt RTFrN 


1 

2 



snmrrfitT (rfwrfr, * wYr ?ttrjftt r 

Tnrn^ ftnff, tpttsr (TRiyv fisr^r «rnir, tpw 4 

fmr ^rrr (^trn^) | ^ wft ft?r ft *r 


jdft «rrfEr BTPT I 


[^Tf?T I 3/2/7 3— ( *•) 



Sec, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3725 


(Department of Atomic Energy) 

Bombay, the 18th December, 1974 

S.O. 3431* — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised 
Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following amendment to the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the Department of 
Atomic Energy S.O. No. 1263 dated the 10th April, 1973, 
namely : — 

For the Table to the said notificatin, the following Table 
shall be substituted, namely ; — 

THE TABLE 


Designation of the Officer Categories of public premises 

and local limits of Jurisdiction 

(1) (2) 


Chief Administrative Offl- Premises belonging to oi 
cer Tarapur Atomic Power under the Management of the 
Station, P.O. Tarapur, Distt. Tarapur Atomic Power Sta- 
Thana, (Maharashtra) tion in Palghar and Dahanu 

Talukas, Distt, Thana, Maha- 
rashtra State. 


[File No. 13/2/73-(H)] 
wr° 3432. — (wfw 

iriWm, 1971 ( 1 97 1 47 40 ) UTO 3 

spft in'f^RTtTT 4>r etVi ti rt 

fWrr tfu wxim, TOf frforrsnr 4ft tffu^tTT 

?fo 47* *rr° 127 4 1973 t 77 ttt 7 

fc, WRf 

777 vfn^TTi tfr 7, nr 1 8 tfir 

jtWot) "Pi tTt ^ f^Fir srirpir 1 

[<PTW 7 * 1 3 / 2 / 73 -(^F)] 

S.O. 3432. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised 
Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following amendment to the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Housing, Directorate of Estates, No. S.O, 127 dated the 
4th January, 1973, namely : — 

In the Table to the said notification, item 18 and the 
entries relating thereto shall be omitted. 

[File No. 13/2/73-(H)] 


47® 3433. — TT^rfr ptot (unifa* 7 ¥t 

iwft) 1971 (1971 47 40) 4ft uro 3 im 

trarv fffwmrT 47 tot gn, 774 Tt 

470 err« 1 s 9 9 frrrt^" 

25 *Ti 1967 % wrft Jr, wfa : — 

747 ^fh^rrr ^ <njg^r if, * 7*7 ( 2 ) 7 q?r srfcrfe * qx 

lf ^rr if ttrtoj * nr 77 % 

% TpfH <H4>iO ¥*77 1 " 


[w 7 * 1 3/2/73— (r^-)] 
fm, 7fT7 


S.O, 3433. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised 
Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following amendment to the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Works, Housing and Supply No. S.O. 1899 dated the 25th 
May, 1967, namely ; — 

In the Table to the said notification, in column (2), for 
the entry, the following entry shall be substituted, namely : — 

"Premises belonging to or under the Administrative con- 
trol of the Department of Atomic Energy in Greater 
Bombay”. 

[File No. 13/2/73-(H)) 
TARLOK SINGH, Under Secy. 


rfa sftt i 

(tffr f V*m) 

b rw«rt, 1 -*74 

vr o wtq 343 4. — nf^ETpf % 309^ im 

34^7 wrf 47 tpfPT 'TTtA $n, ?! (Ttf 3 ifftT 4 7T) 

i 960 ir sftr 77377 f 777 ttt 7 

t, «nrfr : — 

1. ( 1) *7 fwff 47 tpt (77 3 77 

4 to) *r?ff (Itafrr, ttPpt) firmr, 1974 % 1 
(2) if tppfjt it tott 7 nrfpr 1 


2, PMt f^fw*n: (^pt 3 -rftr 4 ’k) wf hrmr, 

i 960 ^ irm; 20 «fk ^ 


1 

2 

3 

4 

2ofefn- 

3 

2 00-2 5 0 ¥0 


fTPptTT 




5 

6 

7 

8 

tfbir 

TFT n^t fTHT 

7FJ bptt 

2 7^ 

9 


10 

1 1 


vrrqf^T^ qTstN' TT^t i«ru % 77 

77 4 if 

7 fr^’ itrWr *tt 5 ^ 

5TPT t 

7^34 f^qr $ 1 


12015 / 1 / 7 2— ifto (Y^jTo P 7 o tpSo)] 
7TU, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


[Pari II - 


MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agrieultuic) 

Now Delhi ,thc 6th December, 1974 

S.O, 3414. In exorcise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, the President hereby makes tho 
following rules fuilhcr to amend the Delhi Zoological Park (Class III and Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules, 1960, namely .— 

1 (i) Those rules may be called the Delhi Zoological Park (Class III and Class IV posts) Recruitment (Second Amendment) Rules 
1974. ’’ 

(ii) They shall come into force of the date of their publication in the Ofticial Gazette. 

2. I i thi ^'lsiulc to tho DNhi Zoological Park (Class III and Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules, I960, for item 20 and the entries 
rdaliij Ihsralo, ths following item and entries shall be substituted, namely : — 


20 Ticket Collector 


Class IV 
Mon-Gazetted. 


Rs. 200-250 Selection Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable. 


2 years 


By promotion 100% 


From Class IV employees of 
the Delhi Zoological Park 
who have some jknowledgo 
of English and who have 
passed Middle School 
standard. 


[No. J, 1201 5/] /72-FD(WTb)] 
RUP RAM, Under Secy, 


mUr sfk ttht Phtpr 




Tt fa-dt, 13 fero, 1974 
qtf >WT 34 35. — ^TfyTT ,J f 

1971 ( 1971 rr 43) wm 3 ort wr#mf spfrr 
gtr, TTsnx Tmnxr fwpprerr 

\ ir ^frbr ,j T'^ r % ^ *fV ° ° *ru mf^m 

1 3 19 7 1 STCfa $ f*TT *TW RTf«r^7T 

JfptM fM ' 3 fl Tf^T ST, r *TTRT SRTrfc^q- faiTFFmT 
JTTfsPPTJT R iffPmfTT JR'R ftpMR £ I 

[X° 2 40-1 2/3/74-qoija] 

dto tpro afrnr, ti 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM & CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 13th December, 1974 

S.O, 3435, — In exercise qf the powers conferred by section 
3 of the International Airporis Authority Act 1971 r 43 of 
1971), the C'cntial Government hereby appoints Shii P, S. 
Sandhawalia, Diiectoi of Engineering, International An ports 
Authority of India, as a part-time Member of the International 
Airports Authority of India with effect from tne 13th Decem- 
ber, 1974 fox a period of three years or till the reconstitution 
of the Authority whichever is earlier. 

[AV. 24012/3 /74-AA | 
C. L, DHINGRA, Dy. Secy. 


(tItwt qrer) 

13 feqrru 1974 

* r ° uto 243G.— (WunTTrftffSiwr) 
l l, «5 R *Tk WhTO qnrft % Prrr ^ ^ 
f 3 [% vIW qroT*:, TfTT (ffpftT*r «ft fafqwr) 

1948 ( 1 948 TO t>) qft ’JFT 4 qf) "JTTRT (j) 

am jttot #mt to wi to* ju tot* # sr«imr 

^ W ■3WRT JlftTFjqTT T>ir sqfffpft q* ^piTOft- 
T f'Tf. Ftoto 7<r<T TOnfTO ?1=rr tototo f , wifipi Iron toi r 
$'< to <fr to< 0 * far m jfTirrf qr Tfr *rRr*r^rr 

T 7 T l5 rT5f W 5TTOWT 9?) TTO'il fl - ?ft J7PT % STATOR q-?; jf\ 

TWRi faror fron i 

^FT HTTO 4ft TTTO aft TTrW'T qT feft sq-ftq if 

toto Dr-ife wwfq’ % srrer ^ 

(rnr fq^n: frqT ^ttfit i 

WfiT 

1. W sqSta qrT qrq nT^imt (Wm m 

Wwr) rfN, 1974 I 1 

2 Rn'JjqT'BT TbfT (fqtffTpT <FT fxfq-qqprj 

19fi5 V J2 % ■3’Tqrr? ( 1 ) ip TT fqnqpq-fijq- 

" ( 1 ) ’Trffar ^ Tf^npr TTflRTfU qff TTi^ TTrq- if qjq- 

fcfr # Rjjirr^ trnr qf^=r jrsrjft', qrj 
5kt qq- % frnf, fimir to ^4<f7R cqT'fr sq- if 



3727 


3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/P AUSA 7, 1896 


it, E%n waxtft r § ft ^ 

qr *rr?r Err *4 ) £ tt 7 ?^ 

T dTRTT W 7J 1 TT^m fcff if Tff EdT 
q^FTT Tt W^ft EFT fr^rf 'Ii-hRT l5 Ft RtT RiffiFT 
fRTT W fft | R^Pr^T *rifRT r^RPT TT^A itR 

Ett % f *ttt ^tifr Em E^r ^ f^pr wt it 
*E RTF^rifr *r£ tf, R R $ fa rIrt RTFiEr 
fwr ^ ERn^ur ?m ®fr *rtft Erf w ^ fR 
^rfFPi «tt . 

t 7 ^ qE ti4q>i < Ei 41 'tiN Edd qrt rt^ 7 ! 
Tfen R ^RT ft, Tt R^dEjdl 

*r Tt +dWb rt ■m/i Tt 

^rrrnrfr fr Em Em Err R*f % ^iwiE+ Em T 
Em 5^ *jjm mr^Epr rt?tT ^Fiifev 
Ed rt^Et, m^ra - Ed rtj^V sflr Tjeet ri ^r 
it ^r m 4r Edt ^ 5 ^ w 4 

*rfar mft sfrtt - 

rt^ R i sfl T E> dE r?rt £fc/l Em 
RpEdn RdT ft n> mm ir rn^t^m mpmr rt^ 
mft ^gmrfFrE % Em E wi % mTdrc drr it 

+ vi ^J 

'smr’ft 1” 

tTTTTj *ftt far ?rfa ^4'Fn - fim inr^ft % ®ret tt 

| ^r Jr ftf'W'r *nr^ irMvt Jr ^r nft 

3TT?Tft | 

[w® *° t 20017/13/7 ijfr #r/tpr it] 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPOR 1 
{Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the J 3th December, 1974 

S,0, 3436, — The following draft of a Scheme further to 
amend the Moimugao Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ- 
ment) Scheme, 1965 which the Central Government proposes 
to make in cxeicise ol the powers conferred by sub-section 
(l) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation o* Em- 
ployment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), is published as requited by 
the said sub-section for the information of all pcisons likely 
to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
expiry of a period of two months from the date of publi- 
cation of this notification in the official Gazette, 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the period 
so specified will be taken into consideration by tbe Central 
Government, 

DRAFT SCHEME 

1, This Scheme may be called the Monmigao Dock Wor- 
kers (Regulation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 
1974. 

2. For sub-clause (1) of clause 32 of the Mormugao Dock 
Workcis (Regulation of Employment) Scheme 1965, the fol- 
lowing shall be substituted, namely : — 

‘‘(1) A worker in the reserve pool register shall be paid 
wages at least foi fifteen days in a month at the 
wage rale, inclusive of dearness allowance, as pres- 
cribed by the Board appropiiale to the category to 
which he permanently belongs, even though no 
woik is found for him for ffie minimum number 
of fifteen days in a month. The days on which 


work is allotted to the worker shall be counted to- 
wards the fifteen days mentioned above. The 
guaianteed minimum wages in a month shall be 
for the niimbei of days for which wage’s are 
guaiantccd in a month subject to the condition that 
the woikci attended for work on all days of the 
month as dnectcd by the Administrative Body: 

Provided that u workci remains absent on any working day 
on leave with wages proportionate reduction of guaranteed 
minimum wages snail not be made subject to the condition 
that the total rmmbei of days tor which wages for actual 
days of woik, minimum guaranteed wages, weekly off wages, 
holiday wages and leave wages payable shall not exceed tbe 
lotal number of days in that month : 

Provided further that if a worker remains absent without 
leave, the guaranteed minimum wages in a month shall be 
reduced by the number of days of such absence ; 

Provided further that if a worker remains on lea\e without 
wages, the guaranteed minimum wages in a month shall be 
reduced propoitionately.” 

[File No. U-20017/13/74-P&D/LD] 


17 E*TRTT, 1974 

mo 3437 ,— TpfV °m1^h EOptEft) 

1948 ( 1948 *FT 9) STITT S tt TqtTTTT ( 3 ) ^E(4) 

jt n sf^t *rfar*fT snfta ytr sflr 'fnm k ^ ^r- 
TEHTF (SR tfE TEFTK Ewt) 

^rffer^TT H^TT TTo mo 3912 EtEt 20-1 1-1970 
jr j n trtf TTr^^rrr 

TA 1¥T TRT ^ ^t ^THrTTT 5 t? ( 1 ) t itit 

? -qiT qti T M'tT ^ RRT ^Ttq^T tft 

iti R XTEW t, 

( 1 ) «TSW, Tff'T -TIT, l 

( 2 ) ^rmr^r, iri , 1 

(3) ifofta ^TPJR (4 t), TOt I 

( 1 ) spnrn^a - , 1 

( 5 ) 5T3RTT ('tEtt) , '4T^PT RtT Pm, I 

iM TWirf R 3TffrEf?P^ ^ . — 


( 1 ) sfr XF^O R 0 Z 

( 2 ) Jsft P^To tjffo Sfffwr ( 

( 3 ) ^fr ^ro Po mT I 

( 4 ) PjfT ^o Ro J 

(5) ^0 


n^r ^ 
ttEEEt i 

TT?f 


Tfr^t TffqrF rft^r TPTffrqt * Rhrrfwf r ttEtE- 

ftirq RiT ^TTFtT ' — 

( 1 ) «ft“ fro t^o ~\ . . 

( 2 ) m tr H o Jra j- , 

( 3 ) «fl Eto %o TqTT J 

( 4 ) 7 r+t^t *i ui pT o 

1 Em rttt Ermt- 

Rf TTirftftT^i7FT % 
trEEEr 1 

( 5 ) 9 S\ TTTo THTo dmTffTT R^TT 

(EWl 

% qEfrftr) 


[ffo ^-11012/1/7 3-410^ ffo/TT^o rfV] 



3728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part p— 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 *rr 


S.O. 3437. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sab 
sections (3) and (4) of section 5A of the Dock Workers (Regu- 
lation o f Employment) Act, 1 948 (9 of 1948) t and in supersession 
of the n otification of the G overnment of India in the late Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No, S.O, 3912, dated the 20 th Novem- 
ber, 1970, the Central Government hereby appoints the following 
persons to be members of the Bombay Dock Labour Board 
established under sub-scction(l) of the said section 5A and 
nominate the Chairman, Bombay Port Trust as Chairman of the 
said Board, namely. 

(1) The Chairman, Bombay Port Trust. Bombay. 

(2) The Deputy Chairman, Bombay Dock Labour Board 
Bombay. 

(3) The Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Bombay. 

(4) The Commissioner of Labour, Bombay, 

(5) The Zonal Manager (West), Food Corporation of India, 
Bombay. 


Members Representing the Dock workers ; 


(1) Shri S.R- Kulkarm 

(2) Shri M-CL Kotwal } 

(3) Shri K.A. Khan . ! 

(4) ShriK.R. PrabhudesaiJ 

(5) Shri H.N. Trivedi 


Representatives of Transport 
and Dock Workers’ Union, 

Representative of the Bombay 
Stevedores and Dock Lab- 
ourers’ Union Bombay - 


Members representing 
Shipping Companies, 

(1) Shri D.A. Dhupjibhoyl 

(2) Shri S.C. Sheth j* 

(3) Shri B.K, Dubash J 

(4) Shri Rasiklal H. Nare- 

chania 


(5) Skri N. M. Mehta . 


of Dock, Workers and 


Representatives of Bombay 
Stevedores Association. 


Representative of the Indian 
National Shipowners' Asso- 
ciation. 

Representative of Karmahom 
Conference (Foreign Shipping 
interests). 

[No. V-11012/1/7 3-P&D/ID] 


the employers 


ST< 20 1974 


*To WTo 3438 — ifar fiwrtfV pVt 

tfm t ( Puil^ FT fafinm) Mr, 1973 ir prk tfufhnr 

ifTT^r ^ ftrn *rr stpft, 

qrfmt (WMFT ^ Ww) 1943 ( 1 948 *f>T 9) 

fJTTT 4 3T UTTT ( 1 ) IPT 5TT^T TT JBtV*T 

jtt t^t 45V smrmT ^tcfV ft, tfV 4r p^rrt 

ot *V W'frT ftnr sRTTftnr Mr wmT ft Erwr 

srurM r^TT ft; rfk it srrtfV ft fa 

STPFT TT TTTTtf ?T W pftJTJ^TT % q$V| PRT 

fb wfh 4ft wifar tt qr Mix f^nrr ottmi i 

5TPFT ^V x iqn fapV ®*TfaT T*T !TTF fafiifc^ p^ffa 
ftr ^ 5TRT PTfrfaV TT *TT ^(VlT JRT faqT 

1 I 


1. fahr qr prM$fa7T rfa firm? fV pVt 

apfan: Wnm) *NVtrr Mr, 1974 fti 

2 . ¥fa wV" 7 (finrV^nr 

Wm) fafir, 1973 3r, — 

(i) 7, 8 pVt Q ^ PqTTT qr fiMrrfalT tJW T^ 

"7. *fVr % xft? frrfar : 

’nfirtw vfa tftfsfV wft fim) ?v fiMr ^ M ’tttt- 
TrtV eFtt sftr ^ fir fv r ^n : — 

(v) Ww mf ij- ^qVifT ftnr % frrtT ^4 yr f t ^V 
finpT ^TnT; 

(v) pVt M?4Tf?r<i p^ptpV %■ p ip fsr y 

% miq; prrr-pw qv ^tfV % MV 

^1 ^fwr *r ht , t fi^,i 1 j 

(’r) ftwft if ft tfwr if, MV 

wrflT ^ M w w nff ^ff yrii # tffft V 

(it) %mvt fVrBTfnr <tt ^ <rr 

Mi. tie'll ; 

(*) piSVjt % trrfhf M srwr, <ifW», 

fjf'nrt, fWr *rrfr *Mt; 

(t) Jrsr^fV »r^ «?Vt 3 m qff si?ff tt w«k« i tt #u 
*ftr i jrfSn=fM % 

(®) «n 39 ( 1 ) % wtfhr ^fV z* ffnw rr ^rr; 

(^r) vtn PwRfV tiVr wfrrir ftfir if 

PnfMf im M iriir *n% bMpt <fr tt ftrn^ rr 
pMt; 

(f) 27 ir Ftfm trfirftpff ^fr f%^Pw, rj»m rjTFnpr 

m jT’Vssf ft fMt; 

(®r) i7h+ wft tf^r pMt; 

(t) ftM? wfy^ifr Ptijw 

(5) 5 %r 3 tnr?sff ir *tt}V? TtfV fl erff giR 

jf^r ft Hinir MFr F fir^gtf tnPT, wff 1 % wVtft 
1000 wPim'i ir % nftr %% <rff <tt f%^fi?nTt 
^rr ; 

(t) (TTO^V t rrfMrff % an* if %frfhr <mrt tt fVmM 
^ 4' 1 ( 1 ; 

(f) j^Vr- if Mfr OTWrff ir rtV if irrtfhr RTRrrr 
Mrfrvf fX Rirnr; 

(r) 0% |,1 m RrT% RTT rnTTR , 4 TtirRT flTRir RT% 

if qwrrff nrr, irrfpr tn,n r?t ?iimPi>jlJT 
ir ftm TrjxhT Mt rrt t ^ ^ wwt % Rf V rm 

RTWT R?r JPTPTPT; 

(f) «rR-^Tre «V: qVwf % IVttww ir wfuff rt Mtt- 
f%RtV RTT RirRT WRT wr% %%«nfV wVt f%ivff fV *w- 
WZ TT RiTRT, tfk *n% JTTT RRTf%fw 



Sgg, 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


3729 


^ w ® wf «ftt t$r wifterot 
S' nr, ir> EfYt arXrTTTn- ?tjr tt Prfe ftror ^ttt, 
mrm ^ *tsttV % i 

8 ttVt 5f^5ir — ( i ) wsm 

% fc^-yif?T Pw % SHfTFR 4 M PtFT TT*fY Midi # Pldd^ % fw 1 ? 

grt wnrPr^ faftre ft Ptr fa 

^rftfrrt pifr — 

(v) *n? ffalw jfrr^TT fir ^jP+t-u tft gf^nfr % 

% *r i % farPrm ufrsrrr ft ■tfmffcpr fan? 

(*ar) ^Prfrw s^tt fa qnfarpi % ij^rfaTw % 

faq Tf^frqr fSnrr fa*r** % qft t; 

(*t) (i) Pt^rt ^ ^tpt ^r tffa fjprcnr 

( i i ) m(* *Tf£ fa*^V Pi m F inn ml ^FT Mri i *iMid r ^ 

*Tl 'dd'P'l STTWRt 4 RTTp & Hi 'dH^H 'JdM I , 

(■st) kRrenfRk rt nWrir^T Rfaa^rWt & Rrmar are% r? 
gfafaRR arem aft rjtftfR f^-jfrsnffr sttt rrri Rkfr 
RT fRRtfire antarnft RT Rnfm R$kftar art *ROTTf 
aft R$ t, 

(p) r? qPrftRR arretr far antarkt % ROTiRrear aik sfmftr 
rrr it reftR % Ramk aft ar rqffkff ftnn smn^; 

(r ) rs akftrtr firfartRT kk arr rer fr^TT; 

(®) aq gfafaRR attar fijr firkRaft qatareR % firR 
RTtR it RfapfRR wf RR RqRTRR ffiflT RTRT $, 

(r) rij qfafaaa arear far aartR % RsftR faf^r R<k rpr, 
gfirRt, firePaRf ark ot^r Rfoa rfk rt ret rrT 

t 

(h) r$ qfRptRJT ^r f*F *st*t ^Tra 'fttff % frwuw 
% ir ^7ijf=r wr-T? ftfiFn fV^ ^rrer If wlx 
TTJjf^-'T fs°rP>rfT wan wrf??T afir fsnn^t 

aW % jt’tr § ; 

(^r) (i) TTf vr jttt ^rc-rr far^rr Rf!rT?nT 
tfrr, ^rnt w airs afr ^ nRr mar iT 

aw % ato: *?r t t?f Ta f^rqPniit 
(ji) it*r T^t at faqftnqt ^rrr f^rwr arrsre^ 
irnt w RtTRT srriTtrRT airs tft w, ¥r aw 

t 

(z) Fatn % "JiipEft % arq^rn: antTr^r atk WnrVf % 
fire* arqwrfiry vnkuO 

(s) afir HMtii ar afinna afia ar^pn: aifkrt ifi arfsiwr 

ir ^tt afn: ^r arwr afi ati afi fkfte 

artar; 

(») air afinm areaT far 'rpa afa ^ aa^’ ait ftafif aar 

aqt ^ atk Tufrer % artffir 'rarmfatftf TtjfaT^t areaT; 

(a ) 'anare ftafir’ >ft amr areaT wk % wak aar 
arfii^a arfiha# arw; 

116 CI/74 — 7 


(a) arer wrerre (faakra aa fafiraaa) firaa, 1002 % 
fina e % a>fta ^ask awir k, aa aTaaaar f>, 
kak areai; 

(a) wra ir aaafaa % aqart faakrer ar anfarre % aana 
at arfirar anfarre aa arefira yr a ^aiarrata aqa: 

l FTTT ; 

(*r) ^4 *fi0t tfk fspfmrt % mv 36 37 ^ snftt 

5trt vr Prqzpr, 

(^) tr*r wr % vt «r c rftr % % ** S 

w^TrftRT *rw %?frr m- 

^ vr ^ *mT*r fttftf 

(«r) wkw ^r firPiftor fHRpr ^ 

( 2 ) ’rr^w, ^fr w? tt ^ft ^ €W mi t, (^t) 

(i), (®r) (ii), (*), (*). ( n i). (t). ( ? ) (a) it 

aferfiia ark at art »l?a<. aa-rrri ( 1 ) % aka far^t k 
arkat an, fi r fiaa it, aarEaw aft sRtrrakra are a^rar i aaifir, 
dar srcaraka rbtr aft *raat area ft ir firfaf^T reift arkrr i 

9 . rjarwsr % ■dRi.'irfiiaa *tk a?ka raarsasir, ati arr 
yita a k rar arftiarret ?kr *tk ma«r aft ur% 5 rdt ^r fM^a 
it RtffiraT arkrT ark fafirras*' — 

“(ar) pa* 34 artffir arqjrre fa^sre rrar fikkraft 

afk «Tar arrtarref % faa* ^qairerfirar arpkr^t it 
atafsk anft fwt a?t fit% arkrr, 

(r) ^ir wir fk arear aft ^ faiflrr it atsrrcr irer 
srwktfirtr farq ark; 

(rr) rfti k *rr arfirfirat it wptst ^r pa it frrt arreri krean 
a? rot RmfitfOT farm mcr; 

(a) rmm aft aqqfwfir it «fri % aWJFff arrRRTtfirta 
arearr atk; 

(p) fit aft ar firqfacTat artm, fretrer RfiOTra kr?r, 
vreff aft stfarr;, rrfir am afir k a^?are wq ir arfirar 
*?r t 1 ” 

(ii) anT 19 % (i) it ir 

"aik RW-Rnt rr% <ttr ^rft a?rR rri are R%m 
aft vt firfim faf^rr k arr^" amt arT afk farm 
anqrii ; 

(iii) aw 25 it Treqar arr Rk firrm Rkm; 

(iv) arf 38 % awt (2) it — 

(ar) R* (i) aft Rt R* (ar) % takk fmafitfisR aregar 
aftiT RkRT, R«rtq- — 

“Treg far rr rr (w) % arka rtr ipk ^r firkr, 

firkararaftgRRkarrqPwTH armrekq anir % Rams* firaiR 
Rft krm arrgRt \" 



3730 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, I974/PAUSA 7 t 1896 [Part 11-^ 


(or) (ii) t$\ ( T ) % n^rm rn iT fe r fijR 

^fnr irm^TTr — 

it? fa tt r* (it) ft snJfa Wr ?rirr ftt *TRrf^ 
jtt (t) ft *rtfFr qr^fT, %im\r ftr yrerf w 

<fwr ft ft fmw, rft ^TTTTTft- i" 

[^-1 1021/6/74-^ tray ?V/u*t f[] 
vr | PTiftnnTi 
^rr («m) 


New Delhi, the 20th December, 1974 

8 , 0 . 3438 . — The following draft of a scheme further to 
amend the Bombay Unregistered Dock Clearing and For- 
warding Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 
1973 which the Central Government proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), is published as required by the 
said sub-section for the information of all persons likely to 
be affected thereby; and notice Is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
expiry of a period of two months from the date of publi- 
cation of this notification in the Official Gazette. 


(l) subject to the provisions of clause 5 sanction crea- 
tion of posts the maximum salary of which exclu- 
sive of allowances is not less than Rs. 1250 per 
mensem and make appointments to such posts; 

(m) make recommendations to the Central Government 
about changes in Shedulc; 

(n) make recommendations to the Central Govern- 

ment about any modifications in the Scheme; 

(o) endeavour to settle disputes about which a request 
for adjudication has been made to the Central Gov- 
ernment by parties concerned and report to the 
Government the result of such endeavours; 

(p) discuss statistics of output of labour and turn- 

round of ships and record its obseivatinns and 

directions; and 

(q) sanction the opening of accounts in such scheduled 

Banks as it may direct and the operation of such 

accounts by suqh persons as the Board may from 
time to time direct. 


8. Responsibilities and duties of Chairman,— Tl) The 
Chairman shall have full administrative and executive 
powers to deal with all matters relating to the day-to-day 
administration of the Scheme and in particular : — 


Any objections or suggestions which may be received 
from any person with respect to the said draft before the 
period so specified will be taken yito consideration by the 
Central Government. 

DRAFT SCHEME 

1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Unregistered 
Dock Clearing and Forwarding Workers (Regulation of 
Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1974. 

2. In the Bombay Unregistered Dock Clearing and For- 
warding Workers (Regulation Employment) Scheme, 
1973: 

(1) for clauses 7, 8 and 9, the following shall be sub- 
stituted, namely: — 

" 7 . Responsibilities and duties of the Board in meet- 
ing: 

The Board in meeting shall be responsible for dealing with 
all matters of policy and in particular may — 

(a) fix the number of workers to be listed under varlou* 
categories; 

(b) increase or decrease the number of workers In any 
category on the list from time to time as may be 
necessary after a periodical review of the list and 
anticipated requirements; 

(c) sanction the temporary listing of a specified num- 
ber of workers in any category for a specific 
period; 

(d) consider listing of new employers on the recom- 
mendation of the Chairman; 

(e) prescribe forms, records, lists, statements and the 

like required to be maintained under the Scheme; 

(f) determine the wages, allowance and other condi- 
tions of service, and re-fix the guaranteed mini- 
mum wages in a month after annual review; 

(g) fix the rate of levy under clause 39(1); 

(h) fix the rate of contribution to be made by listed 
employers to the Dock Clearing and Forwarding 
Workers Welfare Fund; 

(i) appoint, abolish or reconstitute Committees under 
clause 27; 

(j) sanction the Annual Budget, 

(k) appointment of Personnel Officer; 


(a) to ensure that the decision of the Board in regard 

to adjustment of the workers^ lists are carried out 
expeditiously; 

(b) to ensure that the sanctions for temporary listing 
of workers are carried out without delay; 

(c) (i) to exercise and control the working of the Ad- 
ministrative Body; 

(ii) to take suitable steps if any irregularities are de- 
tected by him or brought to his notice; 

(d) to ensure in consultation with ship-owners or 
shipping agents that proper and adequate supervi- 
sion is provided by the listed employers over the 
workers employed on their ships; 

(e) to ensure that the provisions of the Scheme In re- 
gard to transfer and promotion of workers are 
carried out; 

(f) to constitute Medical Boards when required; 

(g) to ensure that conditions, laid down in the Scheme, 
for the listing of employers are complied with by 
them; 

(h) to ensure that all forms, lists, returns and docu- 
ments, prescribed under the Scheme are properly 
maintained; 

(i) to ensure that suitable statistics iji regard to the 
output of labour and the turn-round of ships are 
complied and placed before the Board every quar- 
ter with appropriate remarks and explanations; 

(j) (i) to sanction the creation of posts the maximum 

salary of which exclusive of all allowances is 

below rupees one thousand per month and to make 

appointments to such posts; 

(ii) to make appointments to posts the maximum salary 
of which exclusive of all allowances is below 
rupees eight hundred per month, 

(k) to take disciplinary action against workers and 

employers in accordance with the provisions of 

the Scheme; 

(l) to allow relaxation in the maximum number of 
shifts per worker per week or per month, and to 
report such cases to the Board; 

(m) to declare that there has been a 'go-slow* and to 
take action as authorised under the Scheme; 

(n) to declare a ‘state of emergency’ and to take action 
as authorised under the Scheme; 



Sfc, 3 (li) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3731 


(o) to nuke a report, when necessary, to the Central 
(joveinment under rule 6 of the Dock Workers 
(Regulation of hmploymcnt) Rules, 1962, 

(pj to sanction the tiansfer of a monthly workei to 
the reserve pool at the lequest of the employer or 
ihe worker, as provided for in the Scheme; 

(q) to deal with appeals from workers and employers 
undei clauses 36 and 37, 

U) to fill an unexpected vacancy in the post of Deputy 
Chan man for a period of less than one month and 
icport such matters to Central Government for ap- 
pioval, and 

(s) to discharge l11 other duties and responsibilities 
specifically \esLcd in the Chairman under the 
Scheme 

(2) Ihe Chauman nuy subject to such conditions as 
he thinks lit delegate i 1 wnUng to the Deputy Chairman an> 
of the functions under sub-clause (1) excepting those men- 
tioned in items <j)(i), (j) (n), (m), (n), (oji, 

(q) , (r) & (sj, such delegation, however, shall not divert 
the Chauman ol his po vcis 

9 Responsibilities and duties of the Deputy Chairman, — 
The Deputy Chauman shall be a whole-time officer of the 
Boaul and shall assist the Chairman in the discharge of his 
functions and m paiticular , — 

(a) dischaige all functions relating to disciplinary action 
agaii si li ted employers and dock woikers to the 
extent permitted under clause 34, 

(b) exercise such other functions as are delegated to 
him in writing by the Chairman; 

U) function as Chairman of Committees of the Board 
of which he may be nominated a member, and 

(d) preside o\er the meetings of the Board in the ab- 
sence of the Chairman, 

(c) ke appointments to the posts, the maximum salary 
of which cxclusrvc of allowances is not more than 
seven hundred and fifty rupees per mensem 

(u) in sub clause (1) of clause 19, the following words 
shall be omitted, namely. — 

“and simultaneously deposit with him such fees as 
may prescribed in this, behalf”; 

(m) the pi o\ iso to clause 25 shall be omitted; 

(iv) m sub-clause (2) of clause 38~ 

(a) aftei sub it (b) of item U), the following 

proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“P io\ided that no such removal under sub-item (b) 
shall be made except after giving the employer 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard,”; 

(b) aftei sub item Ce ) of item (n), the following pro 
viso shall be added, namely — 

“Purvided that no such termination under sub-item 
fdj or dbrnis^nl undor sub-item (e) shall be made 
except after guing the worker a reasonable oppor- 
tunity of being heard." 

[H-11021/6/74-P&D/LD] 
V SANKARALINGAM, Under Secy 

*4 18 fawr, 1974 

VTa *TTo 3439 — fiRPT, 19 60^ ftRPT 4 

( 2 ) ? mn qfbr *mrx ^rfbfqqrr, 1958 (1958 
TT 44) ETRr \ rm ?rfwn «PT pr %TjfY 7 T HVFTr 

U tqfV n- 0 4Yo OTK *sfr TTfo 
h\hzh R *ft stfaftfar* 


*rtt wm qntfr ft irk irtct tor qftH* 

tothr ('rf^npr <m) q?t ^rf^rg^TT ^to *tto 895 firct* 
u 1974 R i r^rt — 

3TX ttftpjqUT it, WTT 10 % $ ^TPT 

TC Slfafe “sft Ro qto TRtn; ,J ^TTR I 

[tfo 37-RR° <V(lO)/73] 

New Delhi, the 18th December, 1974 

S.O 3439. — In exercise of the powers confened by section 
4 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958), read 
with sub-rule (2) of rule 4 of the National Shipping Board 
Rules, 1960. the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
A, B Datar, as a member lepresentmg the Central Govern- 
ment in the National Shipping Board in place of Shri Y. 
Jvrishan and makes the following amendment in the Notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Ship- 
ping and Transport (Transport Wing) No SO. 895, dated 
the 13th March, 1974, namely: — 

In the said Notification for the entry against serial num- 
bers 10 the cntiy “Shri A. B. Datar" shall be 
substituted. 

[No 37-MD(10)/73] 
M K RAMASWAMY, Under S«cy. 

ni ftstfr, 4 fom, 1974 

*rr°*Tc 3440, — H'HUrA 1952 'ft tTW 5(l) 

(^9T) 19 58 % fiTW 9 % TT-fqqJT 

(2) It HT*T qfer ThHH 8 ^ (l) 3TO 

*»r 5RftfT 5 R, jti ?r 

remt ar^r fanfrfaq ft 1 *r*jf*, 1974 

hr 3 1 fam, 197 4 cTT, qti ^ 

farR fqwi frar J — 

1 «ft qrmRim 

2 q-qTRT 

3 ^fV RRo RRo 

4 Sfto fWtr TUtfEW 

5 ifto ^To qiwfl 
6 . sto RTTfr sttjr 

7 («frrcfr) nrwhHT %to 

8 quRTT fcRTR 

9 ft ttut ^0 %?nt 

10 ( jqn'Y) rro 

11 sfrrcft R?ro 

12 Rfqqq 

13 MRRfr ^Vo ^-o ^fJFTT 

u TOffV qTgf 

15 «ft rfVo VTTf 

16 p 4t qqr<Tq ^fkrflr 

17 tTTfo fo 



3732 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


[Part 


21 «TKo *>!*( 

22. «ft TfiTff UTf$ 

23* 

24 «fFT?f ST^dT q*To STR? 

25 sfofift TTOsnsft 

2 6 *mraT fwHt 


27 «m?TT ^ 

28 *rj *nm*r 

29 . *fr ^(T *RrrfV 

30. 

3i *fr <fU xtft** 
[^>To tfW I 1/3/ 7 2-tpfio ifto] 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 
New Delhi, the 4th December, 1974 

S.O, 3440. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) 
of rule 8 read with sub rule (2) of rule 9 of the Cinema- 
tograph (Censorship) Rules. 1958, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby ro-appoints the following persons after consul- 
tation with the Central Bouid of Film Censors, as members 
ot the Advisoiy Panel of the said Board at Bombay with 
effect from 1st October, 1974 upto 31st December, 1974: — 

1* Shn Kamaleshwar 

2. Prof K G. Aggarwal 

3. Shn S. S. Rege. 

4. Prof, (Smt ) Vijaya Rajadbyaksha. 

5. Shn D. G Nadkarni. 

6. Pi of. Murli Thakur. 

7. Dr. (Smt,) Charusheela B. Gupta. 

8. Smt, Kamala Tilak, 

9. Smt. Padma K. Desai. 

10 Dr (Miss) Labuben S, Sonojt. 
fl Smt Nalim S Sukthankar, 

12. Smt, Mamben Desai. 

13. Smt T. V Dehcjia. 

14. Smt. Laxmi Wahl, 

15 Shn S D. Shah. 

16 Shri Ganga Ram Joshi. 

17. Shri S. E Hassnain. 

18. Smt. Kamala Dua. 

19. Shn Talakshi Shah 
20 Shri Rajnaram Singh. 

21. Smt. R. S Boga. 

22, Shn Rasik J. ^hah. 

23, Smt. Mnnalini Choksi, 

24. Smt. Lnhta N, Bapat. 

25 Smt. S Gulraiam 

26 Smt. Malati Gilani, 

27 Smt Asha Sheth. 

28 Smt. Manju Agarwal. 

29 Shri Zoe Ansari 

30. Smt. Urmila Kapoor. 

31, Shri D. P. Anand. 

[F. No. 11/3/72-FC] 

¥ToWTo 3441 — 1952 ^ UlTf 6(l) 

tfr (?rr) IwTn^fr, 195s % fhw 9 % sr-fanr 

( 2 ) % IW fam 8 % ( 3) BtlTT Snm WftTTTRt 

snfFr gtr, *\i h 

qrrrpft sfr^r % srrc, am aqfaatft ih 1 

1974 ¥r 31 1974 Tfer % totr 

qr far fdpT fanrr $ * — 

1 €\o 15 XTTTo Ifprf 

2 . dWr tferm* lb *f PraV TRfr 

3 17 «rkcf V qferrft ^ 

4 «fV ^0 ntfiwr is tpr° Tftr 

5 shW rTi *fr oi^ro rfprrqft xrrrrr 19 vr<> mn ftnpnwfr 

e pfr ^o^ro tr 20 tfMt rfrwT TnfemfV 

7 *tfr 2 1 ^rrff <fto struct# 

e 22 tR° tffappfr 

0 . ^0 23 trfiph 

10 tfKo ^ 24 irro(^TT^)^oi^o 

11 9 Y 0 ?fro *rnfMY 25 tfFrcfr 

12 p 4 nmf wW 2G trt #trr *339? 

13 if^rcr jptsrft 27 5? 

14. 28 sflroY T^TT 

11-4-72-tpTTo tflo] 


S.O. 3441.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, and sub rule (3) 
of rule 8 read with Sub-rule (2) of rule 9 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censoiship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government 
hereby re-appoints the following persons after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors, as members of 
the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect 
from 1st October, 1974 upto 31st December, 1974’— 

1 Shri T, Ncelakanthan 

2. Smt. Soundra Kailasam 

3. Shn Mohd Yousuf Kokan 
4 Shri M. Govmdan 

5. Smt C L Meenakshi Amma 
6 Shri P. V Chalapaiheswara Rao 
7, Smt Mary Clubwala Jadhav 
8 Shn P, K Ramalmgam, 

9. Shri G. Varadnppa 

10. Smt R Suvarna 
11 Smt P V Bhagiralhi 

12, Smt Bertha Lobo 

13. Smt. Indira D Kothari 

14 Smt Malati Chendm 

15 Shn C R Sarnia 

16 Smt. Raji Rangacharl 

17 Smt. Padmnn Achutha Menon 

18. Smt. N. S Mani 

19. Dr. S Vijayalakshmi 

20 Smt Lcela Parthasarathi. 

21 Kumari P Shanta Bai 
22. Smt. M Leelavnlhi 

23 Smt Rohim Knshnaehandra 
24. Dr. (Miss) C M Lcelavati 
25 Smt Hemlata Anjaneyulu 
26. Smt, Sara Syed Yusuft 
27 Smt G. Dubey 
28, Smt Padma Sadanandam 

[F No 11/4/74-FC] 


VToWfo 3442 — wf^r JffWhqR, 1952 STTTr 5(l) 
qk q-PTf^T 1958 ^ ORtT 9 % 

(2) % hr TfeT Pbr’ 8 qfr Tifa-qR (3) jTrr sr^fr xrtont m 
jpftq' wr& jrr. *n:*FfTT ^ if-sCFt qU § qrmut % 

jrnr^^RT PrRfirRrff 1 *ttj**, 1974 & 31 faxm, 

1974 W tti ^ TPNJirr vr h 

ftnrr ^ •— 


1 

2 $r?FT 
3 . 

4 hTTjFf 

5 ART 

0 q-nirr yrt Wt 

7. tfPFft ^ 


a giftd 
9 sft xnro tfl-o «jc?r 
10 TTWFTFsrr 

1 1 *fPTOt TTT «TR 

12 >4T qTT 

13 *Pf*fr ^ 

1 4 «TtfT^ arg 


11 / 5 / 72 ^ 0 ^ 0 ] 


S.O. 3442. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) 
of rule 8 lead with sub rule (2) of lule 9 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government 
heieby re-appoinb the following pci sons after consultation 
with the Central Boaid of Film Censors, as membeis of 
the Advisory Panel of the Mid Board at Calcutta with effect 
from 1st October, 1974 upto 31st December. 1974; — ■ 


1. Smt Uma Sahanabis 

2. Shri Sailen Mookeru 

3 Smt Abu Sayeed Ayyuh 

4 Smt Kajnl Sen Gupta 

5. Smt. Shaibya Dull 

6. Smt. Asha Purna Dcbl 

7. Smt Rita Ray 


8 Shri Sujit K. Chakrabart) 

9. Shn R P. Gupta 

10. Shri Anant Mahapatia 
1 1 Smt Csha Khan 

!? 5 hn Rdncn Ayan Duttn 

13 Smt Jayasree Sen 

14 Smt. Mmakshi Basu 


IF. No 11/5/72-FC] 



$*£. 3 (ii) ] 


3733 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


¥1° WTo 3443 — ’HfafwiT, 1952 'A (TTTr 3 4?T OT- 

tiro (1 ) skt Trftnnn ¥T im>r ^ 

T^ IRi ¥T 1 19 7 4 ^ 31 fatfRR, 

1974 %TitJT faf^T iffJTT wrt TT fart 3 *5*1 fofTfT PTRTT %: — 


1. Sfr 4(1 o 4 TTTo GrRTT 

2. #n ^JJFT 

3. gR? IT'R 

4. «ft "fto Jfto 

s. ’sfr t rtfT trt o ihhi? 


6. «ft tfto rp-o TR¥R 

7. «fr tro rr^To hftr^TftTT 

a. «fr WTO 
9. «ft ?faff W!TT^ 

[¥To tfo 1 l/s/72-tTTio Tfto] 
%o tf(o $To 'THTT, TT4T TfP'Ci 


S.O. 3443 In exercise of the powcis conferred by sub- 

section (1) of section 3 of the Cinematogiaph Act, 1952, 
the Central Government hereby re-appoints the following 
persons as membeis of the Central Board of Film Censors 
with effect fiom 1st October. 1974 upto 31st December, 
1974:— 


1. Shri B, R. Chopra 

2. Smt, Veena Duggal 

3. Smt. Sui under Gunta 

4. Shri P. C, Mathew 

5. Smt. M. Nasrullah 


6. Shri B. N. Sircat 

7. Shri A, L. Srinivasan 

8. Shri C, R. Snndamm 
9 Shri David Abraham 

[F. No. 11/6/72-FC] 
. P. K. NAYAR, Under Secy, 


(THH7-HK afti) 

H$ 17 197 4 

VTo<Ro3444-?in*ft WI^T wrr 6 2 7, fcHfar 8 HP#, 19G0 5TCr*TPJ 
^rmfPT HIT Pm, 1951 % pFFT 134 13CS III ^7 
(*>) ^ ‘^rr F??rPpFJFF ?r *f fart* 

16-1-75 3nTif«TT HH SRTfSft MPT ^ ^T pRRT fa*Tf $ 

[*L> 5/-15/74-tV^^T] 
cfTo^fto TT^r, 

(tVo Tjsfo aft) 

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P & T Board) 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

S.O,3 44 4._In pursuance of para (a) of Section III of Rule 
434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as intioduced by S.O. 
No. 627 dated 8th March, I960, the Director General, Posts 
and Telegraphs, hereby specifics the 16-1-1975 as the date 
on which the Measured Rale System will be introduced in 
Cherpu Telephone Exchange, Kerala Circle. 

TNo. 5-15/74-PHBJ 

P. C. GUPTA, Assistant Director General (PHB) 

PFTTH tfk HTTTH WPTH 
fcmt, 26 f^TRR, 197 4 

VT° Wo 3445 — HP^qfh, PFFfT % pPTH 45 % 

Hwnt ^ wm o-m if, HT^yfr vr (fefr 

^ TTmur TT) fWT* 1963 ir TfufftFT M pnR 

far h rtf! £ ; «mftr * — 


( l) UT fonff *7T ’TFT ZXZZfl fHTrF-THTHt *HT 3TPTCH 

(fent if htethtt yr) Huftur fr=nr, 1974 $ 1 

(2) % 3FT% 3Tf#JH TV TT3[TT #T I 

(2) TR^Rt fa* TRT FTRf H UTWfR'JT 

^Pf) PTHH, 196 3 if (T*FT f^o 317- r J-5 if, fTOHR 

HCRifr ^ HRHf HtW , . — 


fhTFT-RIR *FT Zm 

nftmff *frr pwt m fapr h vtzzz 

fa77TT HR % 3TT RT OTH 

for HTfW 

1 . 

2b0 Ho ?T . 

2 , 

500 Ho % 200 Ho T. 

3. 

700 Ho ?T TV 500 Ho^3FJH. 

4, 

1000 T.o ?T 700 Ho & 



5 . 

1650 to it FT W^l 1000 Ho *f 



*b. 

2500 to it M 16 50 Ho ^ 


aRpT, 

7, 

2500 Ho tfh: (Pthft 


^ ZHF 8 ^7 t) 

8. 

Trann % ^tth «fln 


^ tfhw % arfWTft 1 


[TiToTfo 1203 3(6)/? 3(^0 2 )] 


<fto JsnPfl, OTTTFTST 


fiiw: (5frfir-2) 

MINISTRY 

OF WORKS AND HOUSING 


(Directorate Of Estate) 

New Delhi, the 26th December, 1974 

8,0,3445.— In pursuance of the provisions of rule 45 of 
the Fundamental Rules, the President hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules further to amend the Allotment of Government Resi- 
dences (General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963 namely 

1. (1) These rules mav be called the Allotment of Govern- 
ment Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Amendment Rules, 
1974. 

(2) They shall eomo into foae with effect from the next, 
allotment year. 

2. In the Allotment of Government Residences (General 
Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963, in rule S.R, 317-B-5 for the existing 
table the following table shall be substituted, namely : — 


Type Category of officer or his monthly emoluments as on 
of the first day of the allotment year in which the 

Resi- allotment is made, 
dence 


I. Less than Rs. 260/- 

II. Less than Rs. 500/- but not less than Rs. 260/- 

III. Less than Rs, 700/- but not less than Rs. 500/-. 

IV. Less than Rs. 1000/- but not less than Rs. 700/-. 

V. Less than Rs. 1650/- but not less than Rs. 1000/-. 

VI. Less than Rs. 2500/- but not less than Rs. 1650/-. 

VIT, Rs. 2500/- and above (except those eligible for type VITI) 

VIII. Officers of the status of Additional Secretaries and 
Secretaries to the Government of India. 

[F. No. 12033(6)/73-Pol (II)] 
P-B. KULKARNI, 
Deputy Director of Estates (Policy-II) 



3734 


T HE GA ZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [PartJE 


Tl? ftfe'c'i), 22 19 74 

Wo*T° 3446 — Td: %rfpT "tTOFTC ^ TFT f finprfr 3TTO 
ir faftfro: fwft ^7 JFT* if *>Pr ^TFrFT, *2TFT *TFfr, 
TTTF 'ri ! ^ ^ i TFft, CtMT (TrTTTFT) T TFTTJ 

WtTTd % iffa rr^r ^frmfry^ f^FTPT^; 

q-ff. bttr -??f *rr ;tft fa^TT % far 
MftFT ^TTf Ttwrftq- FFfFfT f ; 

W:, THT, tfteftpTfi fWTTT ‘trfaPFFT, 1947 (l947 ^T14) 
«ft FRT 10 tft TTHFTT (l) tfiSTO (t) ?FTT TTT qrfiffTT "FT 
5FTFr qTT^ gO, %^FT TTWTC nrr^lTTT ^T7 fwp* t‘T TrFi ?rfWr- 
*FT QTTT 737 qr STKfFf 'TfeT %^q- THW $ft«nf<|+ ^faWT, 

sfktjt wrt ^TPTPr^hrr 47 fan frrcftFr f i 

^ fy nTT ^ qFfq’RTRT, ^tft ^TnfT, ^ft n T *rr jqr, * 
TFft, f^FTT ^fr (ww) q>T aFj3TT T^TT tJFTf if 

faqlfatT Pfftft T^fiTT TF*jFt jffa FffpTTTt StT4rp7r fart *Ff 
t£ ?” 

[TTo 1 ^ 3-2901 l( 50 )/ 74 -UT° mTo- 4 ] 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1974 

S,0. 3446. — Whcicab the Central Government is of opi- 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to Shri Kanhyalal, Mine Owner, Village Lamba- 
kuwa, Post Office Dabi, District Bundi (Rajasthan) and 1 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whcicas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute ior adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the poweis conferred by 
clause (d) of subjection (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cem 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted 
under section 7 A of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the woikmcn employed in Lnmbakuwa Sand 
Stone Mines of Shri Kanhyalal, Mine Owner, Vil- 
lage Lambakuwa, Post Office Dabi, District Bundi 
(Rajasthan) are entitled to grant of any paid 
National and Festival holidays?*’ 

[No, L-2901 1(50) /74-LR-TV.] 

Tf faesft 8 *FT**T, 19 74 

. 3447 . — *ft: jtfftt £ fa 

T TPfpf if fafafe FFFfT T TT> ti RTT F 7 ? 


^T^fV (srra%) faftfcr ^ sttotot ti Twr5 fartwf nftr 
^FRf % Tfa trq- FtTFT fwTR jt; 

ITVt m: TRVfT WT faTT* «Ft TTFT PMqvr *7 Rpj 

fdqfian *FTTT 4 lwpT ^FTTpff t; 

w, tfhrftfw qftrpFFT, 1947 (1947 14) 

# «TTr 10 TTTPT (1) % (q*) jpj V T pfdtff 

TF ^FT>T WT grr, tR^TT pHTT Tt T*fT rftrfmFT 

tJT^T 7 ^ ^ SpffT irfeT 3 TT! ; FrT y f^FT^T 

(tpstt 1), warf ?rr % Ftt PrarfiiTT ft 

*FTT ^Ff tFTo TrFdMK ( H T T^d ) fro, 

^rrft, mrm?ft-TfFrr % qfV 

^ ^ wmfrftpEr f ? qir 

WR f4PT «pptr iFTTSTT f? 

^ ^qrfofr *j*fr fsprft 3 - 3-7 1 & ^nr^fr qff »rf 

^ TFT RTTFT FtF 

1. fTfa* fl^V) ?T ^FT 

2 iiriT^uvl TFT ,, ,, 

3 TT 0 iffo 5T^1wi: 11 ff 

4 T 1 ! 0 TTJT^r u T » 

5 ^TTr^oTFT^ 

6 rfto 5TlTo TRt . J( 

7 . Yfo Tlfo ^ITFTTT ,, r 1 

8. TjfV 0 . TT^FfV i, 

9. Tt^f^FTTFFR . ^FT^ 

1 0 , , ^rw-^r 

11 wn-u ifto , +i9)T^ 5 F?;T Trrr ,, 

12 Tifo TPrqy , ,, 11 

qft ^ft 1 - 8-1974 ^ ^FFT^f 9 T f 
1 TTl^TFFF . 47 TlijfffdTf ?fff 9TFT 

2 . Wr Tf#fT T'T^OTff ffiWTf 73 TR 

3 +1*1 * TFFT TFfirr ^fTT 

4 feiTT ’ . PtItt ftmuft 

5 . ^IwtPt^ . 

6. Tf^'SFFT 3 TfW , f=FTT^ *FT 

7. f^FFrqnr Jf 

8. fTTT'4FT c ffo TFPT7 1 ^rrt, 19 74 TftTFFF, 

9 TtT T^FTFT . W TTTT^TT 

[tic mr-2601 i/i 6 / 74 -iFTo^rn;p 4] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th November, 1974 

S.O. 3447, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employees in 
relation to the managemenJ^ of Messrs S. Kantilal and Com- 
pany (Private) Limited, and their workmen in resptet of the 
nutters specified in the Schedule heieto annexed ; 



S££y3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


3735 


AND WHEREAS the Central Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 


s/ft; fT nr^rr froir t) % ffcnj 


Now, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred 
by cluafte (d) of sub-section (V) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1941 U4 of 1947), ths Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1) Bombay 
constituted under section 7 A of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the action of the management of Messrs S. Kantilal 
and company (Private) Limited, Mine Owners, Margae- 
Goa in laying off woikmen mentioned below is justified? 
If not, to what relief the affected workmen entitled? 

List of employees kept under lay-off w.e.f. 3-8-74. 

S. Name Designation Place 

No. 


12 3 4 


1 . Suryakand Kouleker Clerk Sancordcni mine. 

2. Exaltagoo Vicgas ” 

3. S.G. ArvendcLcr „ „ 

4. S.V, Gaunker „ ,, 

5. Srikant S, Naik ,, „ 


6. B.R. Kapre 

M/Mate 

1 1 

7. D.D, Khandolker 

91 

1* 

8. K.G. Naik 

Peon 

r» 

9. Morto Ram Naik 

Drivcr-A 

>> 

10. Surya R. Naik 

Driver-B 

,V 

11. R,S. Bandodker 

Cleaner-B 

19 

12. R-Y. Naik 

91 

>* 

List of staff under lay-off w.e.f. 1-8-1974, 


L Manohar Naik 

Mate 

Margatiche Sode 
mine. 

2. Sh anker Gaonker 

peon 

Villlena Mine 

3. Manohar Navelker 

Driver 

Nanora mine 

4. Dinker Khodker 

clerk 

Digashi office. 

5. Manuel Pinto 


• 1 

6. Madhuker An ant 
Sawant, 

Supervisor 

Riverside plot. 

7. Purshotam Modikoi- 
kcr. 

Blaster 

Singal mine. 


8, Bhima P. Naik from 1st July, 1974 compressor 

operator 

9. DandSuleman. Plant operator Barzanmine. 


(No. L-2601 1/16/74-LR* IV) 

fteiY, 15 1974 

1T|0 ^0 3 448— ITT: fcjSftr +HTK. THT $ fa 

$ fafafw firwf $ wft $ r prfan 

iTmfa irt ^oitp'ott^o tuff Tpp^a; faqfafaf 

3pfa ^ TO ^rfVsfrfTFF fam fWUFT $; 


TO, ^ ufaftfair fTTK 19 17 (l 947 ^T 14) 

mrj srft: tm to (i) (*r) ircr 

3tct 5DFT wfafaf tt sfapr ^ toftt to rflctlfw 
TTcft & TfV^pfftr 'srfb^Rt TO 0 ^ 0 
#fk T fffaT sfft FvF jWK Tt Tffl 
fro iRfurnTr *Ft "tft fmwff T Pit ffffftrr tTO 1 1 

w fcp# TfffPTTT wwh ft “4romro to° 

vw #r sr^Emr p 4Y to° w tfpf *htr % 

fair 30 FT#, 1974 ft Tftf ^t fc? 

tN ff^t, fft «ft TTO faff fffffffa % iW f ? 

[ffo t7T d - 2 6 0 1 2/ 4/ 7 o FTT 0 - 4 ] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th November, 1974 

S.O. 3448. — Whcicas the Central Government is of opi- 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the management of B.R.H. Iron Ore Mines of 
Messrs. Dalmia International, Hospet and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, l q 47 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri M. C. konnur as Presiding Officci with headquarters at 
Bangalore and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
said Industrial Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 

Whether the action of the Management of B.RJL Iron 
Ore Mines of Messrs Dalmia International, Hospet, 
in dismissing Shri M. Y u fluff, driver from service 
with effect from thirtieth day of March, 1974 for 
misconduct, is justified? If not, to what relief is 
Shri Yusuff entitled? 

[No. L-2601 2 /4/74-LR-IV] 


*TT^T 

fff 21 1974 

WT[° *TTo 3449. — TO Tffftff ffTW qft fa TTffff dmsfj 

ft fafftiw farftf % Trt ft FnTTErrr »rwt % 
ft ff^Tx fafftfat qft; ft ^Wt- 

far fanr fwFTff 

tfft: ffff: FTTR faTTT Tt FTFTfff+T ^ fan Pf?ft r d 

! mT Tfaffbr FFTPifr t; 

TO, TO ifttflPHT faffTT FftTfaTR, 1947 (l947 TT 14) 

^ 10 ft TTmrr ( 1) %■ (f) titt aw y rfW 

FTFT TOt JTT, FTTR FTT3TTT Trp farTT rrfa- 

(wr tmr 7T % ’crsfftT 'vTctbiT F’fbwr 

rFUtfaTT % fall ^ | 

(1) f4T TftTTf, $0 FTT FTkTj tJF - FTff 

Tm tttt fth ^farfy ttpt tojit 



3736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part 


fwrnr why*) 'prfPjoT ^ iftnr £ i irft A fan 

>lrffar xf|T fa?T Tt TC? 

( 2 ) ^rqr ^3 tt 7 <rjfau r ^fw ftrftr % wr^r ^FrwrPf ? 
Rft t^TT fc, rft IVr tffTfaf fr ^ fan <TT ? 

[tfo q^o-12012/50/7 4-r^TomTo III] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21st November, 1974 

S.O. 3449, — Whereas the Central Government i$ of opin- 
ion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the Allahabad Bank, Calcutta and their work- 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule here- 
to annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7 A of the 
said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

(1) Whether the existing wages of Sarvashri .Tadu Polai, 
K, Appu. Saclhu Naik, Dhiubo Charan Pusti, Murfi- 
dhar Pradan, Bamandcv Naik and Nalini Ram 
jan Borua deserve r upward revision ? If so, from 
what date and with what details ? 

(2) Whether the above workmen concerned are enti- 

tled for the benefit of provident fund ? If so, from 
what date and at what rate? 

[No. L 12012/50/74-LRIII] 

xrfavr 

2 5 *PTRT, 197 4 

VTo Wo 3450 — TT: Tnffa ftTR Tf TFT fa 

ft fafftfa*: faqftf % mk ft sfrf fr nrr ft 
PraWf jrffa D r •rr famr 

fqtKHM $ ; 

ftfa ran ^ f mm qft % fam 

nrnrtff ft; 

TRT;, fw* xrftsrfhw, 1947 (l947 *T 14) 

mrr 10 ift ^ttrt ( 1 ) (q-) gjrr ststt wftuftf tt 

tpfpT grr, T^PPr OT7 TfR fat IT TT STfSTfam 
STTT 7T % nftfa nfal TWIT ftVtfffipF nfarrn 

% fair faflw ^rfr ft i 

w «fa nra tftt r jrar?Era>r nn m ^ 

fa^ET 35ft sffo'ffo ijft "trrfa?n W' TffQTT TYffaf ttr 

1970 ft *jfclt URtxT T «FTft 

^TPftfrr ft ? far mff, A fan sr^ftfa m ft ? 

[fto q-o- 12012/1 io/74-t^oicrn:o Hi] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25th November, 1974 

S.O. 3450. — Whereas the Central Government is of opin- 
ion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 


in relation to the Oriental Bank of Commerce Limited, and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Scheedulc hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Delhi, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act, 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the action of the management of Oriental 
Bank of Commerce Limited in not granting two 
increments to Shri B. P, Jain, the then Special 
Assistant with effect from 1970 on account of his 
passing “Sahitaya Raffia" examination is justified? 
If not, to what relief is he entitled? 

[No. L-12012/1 10/74-LRlin 

trnfa 

*To 3451 — Wfa ft fa T^A ^ TWT 

JPRpft ^ fafrfa^ farm t 3TTt if ipp T *TTT ffmTr?T 

faffrifaf xffx * rfrir tr^7 ^f^ftPrr farrc 

itfh: jrt ^ % faR 

faffar TTTT Tlmrir ^ J 

m:, m, tfWlPrr fanr trftrPpnT, 1947 ( 1947 ^ 14 ) 
mn 7 ^ ^ sttt 10 ^ ( 1 ) ^ wy (^r) erm 

sm\ vrfawf sniPr vrfr grr, wmx rpTRim tpF 

ffbtftfar ^^#1 TTrff 9iPT?fET «ft rto 

taxo fnrr if ^Prr sAr faro 

«f?T TftiftPr y 'll ^ faff fofftrr cr.ff ^ 1 

*RTT ?farqr, HTFfffTT TRUET, 

TI) TfaRT ffffaT WITT T7TP9T % fffPlT p 4f 

PRO iqTg^fT *fd 5fr^rfa % WTfiT ^ ?r ^TTC TTTr t? 

Tfa dt fan TT | ? 

[^0^0-12012/74/74-^0^0 HI] 

ORDER 

S.O. 3451. — Whereas the Central Government is of opin- 
ion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the Central Bank of India and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri H. R. Sondhi shall be the Presiding Officer with 
headquarters at Chandigarh and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

Is the management of the Central Bank of India, Zonal 
Office, Chandigarh justified in denying promotional 
opportunities or officiating chances to Shri R. N. 
Ahuja, Clcrk-cum-Typist of Civil Lines Branch, 
Rohtak ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 

[No. L-12012/74/74-LR. HI] 



3737 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 28, l l ;74/i»ADSA 1, 1896 


Sec 3 (ii) J 



pr^PT 

qf 1 L >7 1 

*rro 'cn J4S2 — ?ft <fi tr- a fr *** ttr? 

KT^ft *T fqwr * TR If TW WTT *T *T TO 

fan - jRT TfV “Mf TR'P'PT Y 71^ ^T ^tfrf fif€T*TR' 

*rV t-sPt trtr Tf^r fa*R Tr T ftf 11 

frcfbrr t~^tt *t H r #r ; rt fr, 

*rt uterrPrr fa^R irfafwr 1 c >4 7 ( 1947 *ft n), 
ETTTf 10 sft WJRf (i) $ tr (t) TRi ^pet wf^RT 
sRt*r 7* >f?#Pr jt^tt Tt tot <rta 

ETRi 7-T r ff-sfcT *Tfc*T ^RBl JRTR fl^TTpPF vfar^r 

Wf r) T Gm fWfiTT £ I 

w q^rq - ^dett fr *G5PT »tPtt srIt t sarsrcra *f\ 
ttpt t *f> frfw ^ ^Ftfr ^ *tFcpt 4t rpro 
ttVttt ^r 2 4 1070 *rqrd *FrNrt ^rprtf^r 

$ * iff? w fa*r v«rrtT Tf f^rR * ’ 

[*To rr^T 1 20 1 _/->(>/ 7 2 <TRo 1 1 1 J 

STRi ^pfY^RTTR *R' KRrT 


bunal, Bomba} in the industrial dispute between the empkv 
vtis zn relation to the Western Rail* ly and their woikmcn, 
which wts icceived b> the Central Government on the 5th 
December 1974 


BFTORL THl CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY 

Rcfeicncc No CGIT 8 of 1972 

P \RTI^3 

Tmployeis in relation to the Western Railway 

AND 

Their workmen 


APPTARTNCES 

For the employers — Shri M P Pal, Advocate 
Tor the wo kmcn — Shri S M Dharap, Advocate 
State Rajasthan Industry Railways 

Bombay dated 31st October, 1974 


AWARD 


The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Reha- 
bilitation Department of Labour and Employment have by 
their Order No L 410I2/32/72/LRIII dated 2nd December, 
1972 made in excicise of the powers conferred by sub sect 
ion (1) Qf section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 rc- 
fcired to this Tnbunal for adjudication an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers m relation to the Western 
Railway ind then workmen in icspect of the matters speci- 
fied in the following schedule — 


ORDI R 

New Delhi the 26th November, 1974 

S.O 3452— Who cis the Cential Government is of opin 
ion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab National Bank and their workmen 
m respect of the maltei specified in the Schedule heicto m- 
nexed , 

And wheieas the Ccntuil Government considcis it desir- 
able to refer the smd dispute for adjudication , 

Now, therefore, in excicisc of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1 Q 47 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refeis the said dispute foi adjudication to the Ccn 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted 
under section 7 V of the said Act 


SCHl DU1 F 

Whethei the action of the management oi Punish 
National Bank Central Circle, Indoic in dismissing 
Shri k 1 Gautam Cleik cum-Cashicr cum Go 
downleepei at Jodhpur branch from the 24th 
June, 1970 is justified 9 If not, to what relief is he 
entitled ’ 

LNo 1 12012/56/72/1 R III] 


New Delhi the 11th Decembei, 1974 

SO. 3453. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Dnputc* Act 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publisher the following awaid of the Tndustna! Tri 
116 GI/74— 8 


SCHEDULE 

Whethei the action of the management of Western 
Railway in dismissing Shii Abdul Rahim, Telegraph 
Peon, Western Railway, Kota was legal and justified? 
If not, to whet relief is the woikman entitled 9 ’* 


2 After the receipt of the icference, notices wcic issued 
to the parties for filing Iheir icspcctivc statements and the 
Divisional Secretary of the Paschim Railway Karamchari 
Pnnshad filed the statement of claim on behalf of the work 
man He has submitted that the workman was a confirmed 
telegraph peon getting a salary of Rs 81/- with Rs 71 as 
dearness allowance and dearness pay together with Rs 7 50 
as house rent allowance^ that railway quarter No T 4S5/D 
was allotted to one Shn Abdul Wahid on 21-7-67 vide Sta- 
tion Mastci, Kota\ No S 131 quarter dated 21-7-67, that 
the mam allotce Shri Abdul Wahid and the workman Shu 
Abdul R ihim moved a joint application to Station Master 
Kota for allowing them joint occupation of the said quarter 
and the allottee Shn Abdul Wahid permitted the workman to 
live as such m the said quarter and the lailway administration 
had no objection to such a course It is contended that Shn 
Abdul Wahid the main allottee was encouraged with selfish 
Liltcnoi motives to entangle the workman under slings of 
rules to throw him out of the quarter for facilitating him to 
get more illegal lent from other employees It is contended 
by the employee that wheicas the case made out by the 
i ailways is about unauthorized occupation of the jailway 
quarter the actual case is shanng of joint occupation of the 
sad i ml way quarter Howevei, DAR enquiry was started 
against the workman and the same was also finalised m the 
absence of the workman and his defence counsel as well as 
on the b isis of the faulty enquiry and perverse findings 
of the Traffic impectoi, Gnngapur City imposing the drastic 
pcanlty of removal from seivke which tantamount® to 
denial of reasonable opportunity and non-observance of pnn 
ciples of natuial justice on discriminatory considerations A 



3738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974 'PADS A 7, 1896 [PARISH 


strike notice was served on the railways and the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner (C) Kotch entered into conciliation of 
the Dispute. The conciliation however ended in failure nnd 
the dispute was icier! cd for adjudication to this Tribunal, It 
ia contended that ^ the chaige-sheet issued to the workman 
was without jurisdiction os his omission and commission did 
not constitute misconduct undei the relevant rules goveining 
allotment and sharing of railway quarter. It is submitted 
that the real culprit in this case was Shri Abdul Wahid whom 
the railway administration had allotted a quarter and who 
was actually required to obtain prior permission foi shining 
accommodation allotted lo him by the railway administration. 
Since he has not been even questioned by the railway ad- 
ministration for his default a discrimination of the highest 
order has been ^howp against Shri Abdul Rahim and conse- 
quently the action of the railway administration was discri- 
mination and mala fide. It is stated that the enquiry office i 
and tiaffic inspector had concluded the enquiry expartc even 
in spite of the frets brought out by the Defence Counsel vide 
his letter dated 10-5-1969 which goes to prove that the en- 
quiry officer had a piciudicial Intention and ww adamant 
to deny all reasonable opportunities as per law with a view 
to effect the deterrent punishment of removal from service 
without observing the pros and cons of the Disciplinary and 
Appeal Rules, It is therefore stated that the enquiry stands 
vitiated as a reasonable opportunity has been denied to the 
workman and the principles of nntuial Justice have not been 
followed The findings were drawn prejudicially exparte in 
the absence of the defence counsel and th; workman keep- 
ing in view communal feelings. Tn these circumstances it is 
submitted that i 1 may be declared and held that the removal 
of Shri Abdul Rahim was bad in law and amounted to victimi- 
sation of the poor workman. It is therefore prayed that the 
wrongful termination may be set aside and directions may 
be issued to the opposite party to reinstate Shri Abdul Rahim 
with back wages and benefits accrued to him along with 
othet benefits tfnd compensation for mental unre?t. Along 
with the statement of claim a list of documents and list of 
witnesses have been appended. 

3, The General Manager, Western Railway has by his 
written statement stated that Shri Abdul Wahid and Abdul 
Rahim made a joint application to the Station Master, Kota 
for allowing them joint occupation of the above quarter 
which was allotted in favour of Shri Abdul Wahid. Although 
the joint application was submitted to the Station Master it is 
contended that the Station Master did not permit them for 
such a joint occupation of the said quarter nor had he any 
authority to grant such permission. Therefore the Station 
Master Kota forwarded the said application to the competent 
authority for granting the sanction for joint occupation. It is 
submitted that Shri Abdul Wahid who was the lawful allo- 
ttee of the quarter made complaints that he does not desire 
to allow Shri A, Rahim to occupy the quarter jointly with 
him; that he (Abdul Wahid) had complained that Abdul 
Rahim did not allow him to use and occupy fully the quarter 
which was lawfully allotted m his favour and that Abdul 
Rahim under false representation obtained the signature of 
Abdul Wahid on the said joint application for joint occupation 
of the quarter. Tt is further submitted that on investienlions 
made by the railways it was revealed that Shri Abdul Rahim 
was occupying the quarter and was preventing Abdul Wahid 
from using the said quarter which was lawfully allotted to 
to him. It is further submitted that the railway administration 
decided to issue notice to Shri Abdul Rahim and make him 
vacate the quarter which he was unlawfully occupying. Since 
he refused to vacate disciplinary proceedings were initiated 
against Shri Abdul Rahim, and a charge-sheet containing 
three allegations was issued to him viz; 


(i) unauthorized occupation of quarter which was never 
allotted to him; 


4. The enquiry officer held an enquiry against Shri Abdul 
Rahim on these allegations and according to the employers 
the delinquent workman vas given evciv opportunity and 
facility to defend himself. The cnquiiy officr came to the 
conclusion that the employee was guilty of the charges 
levelled against him and jccorn i mended that the proper penalty 
should be removal fiom service. The workman was issued 
with a second show-cause notice to which he submitted his 
explanation and the competent authority after considering 
the explanation and findings of the enquiry officer came to 
the conclusion that he should be removed from service for 
the misconduct committed bv him and accordingly the work- 
man was removed from service on 19-9-1969. Thereafter 
the workman filed an appeal as also a mercy petition both 
of which were considered and the punishment of removal 
fiom set vice influfed upon him was confirmed. Tt i\ con- 
tended that the enquiry officer and the appellate authority 
observed ail the principles of natural justice and the enquiry 
was bona fide and no evidence was shut out in any such 
proceedings, and the allegations made in this behalf by the 
workman arc denied. The allegations of discrimination made 
by the workman aic also denied. In conclusion it is sub- 
mitted that proper discipline has to be maintained and the 
punishment imposed upon the workman is adequate and 
justified considering all the acts of indiscipline and insubor- 
dination committed by him. 

5. Exhibits E-l to E-46 were filed on behalf of the em- 
ployers and exhibits W-l to W-fi wete filed on behalf of 
the workman. 

6. The workman, has examined himself before this Tribu- 
nal, He has stated in examination in chief that he worked 
in the railways for 20 years and was dismissed 3 or 4 years 
ago. He was originally appointed as a lanipman and posted 
at Shumgurh and after 9 months transferred to Kotah. At 
fiist he worked as watciman at Kotah and later he was asked 
to work as a telegraph peon. He applied for allotment of 
railway quarters at Kotah and the Station Master, Kotah had 
told him that he would be allotted a quarter when his num- 
ber came. He has stated that he knew Abdul Wahid another 
mil way employee and during their talks Abdul Wahid had 
informed him that he was in occupation of a quarter and 
that if T so desiicd I could stay with him in one half of 
his quarter and accordingly they applied for joint occupation 
of the quarter. The witness produced an application exhibit 
W-l dated 8-3-1968 which is jointly signed by Abdul Wahid 
and himself requesting for joint occupation. 15 days after 
the submission of the application the woikman occupied the 
quailcr. Shri Abdul Wahid continued to stay there and 
he had never told him lo vacate the quarter nor was he told 
that he had filed a complaint against him. Thereafter he 
was charge-shectcd and the enauiry officer who was a Traffic 
Inspector did not tell him wnat the charges were and he 
was an illiterate man. He had informed the enquiry officer 
that he wanted to lend oral evidence through some witnesses 
to which the Enquiry Officer ha said that he would 
c ee to it later on. But he was not asked to produce any 
witnesses, Shri S. M. GovaJ who was the workman's defence 
counsel was not always in a position to attend the enquiry 
proceedings and although the workman had teqiiestcd him 
to postpone the enquiry on such occassions the enquiry 
officer did not accede to his request and the enquiry proceed- 
ed in the absence of the defence counsel. The workman 
was unawatc of what transpired at the cnquiiy when his 
defence counsel was absent. His claim is for reinstatement 
as he has been unemployed since the date of his removel 
Irom service and he and his family members were depen- 
dent on his brothei. In his cioss-cxamination he has cor- 
loborated the statements made by him in examination-in- 
chicf. He has further stated that the joint application was 
given to the D. O. S. Kotah through the S. M. and although 
the D. O, S. had not pennitted to occupy the quarter the 
S. M. had and he never enquired from Shri Abdul Wahid 
as to why this trouble had been created, 


(ii) that he was issued notice lo vacate the said quarter 
but the same was not vacated by him inspite of the 
notice; 


(iii) that he was in unauthorized occuppation of the said 
quarter and his continued occupation was itself e 
misconduct and refusal to vacate the quarter though 
called upon amounted to disobedience of the law- 
ful orders of the superiors. 


7. Briefly stated, the facts in this case arc that a preli- 
minary enquiry was conducted by Shi i L. A. Bhatnagar, 
A.C.S/2 Kotah for authorised occupation of the railway 
quarters nnd for his refusal to vacate the quarter despite his 
office letter dated 20-8-1968. Accordingly on 13-2-1969 a 
irrmoiandum of charges was framed against the workman, 
Abdul Rahim and he was informed that he was in unautho- 
rized occuution of quarter No. 485/T/D which was never 
allotted to him and that he was also issued a notice to 



Se£C 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 3739 


vacate the said quarter but had not vacated it so far and 
that his iinnuthoiized occupation without allotment tanta- 
mounts lo serious misconduct and non-vacation of the 
same dispilc notice tantamount^ lo disobedience of orders. 

S. By order dated 6-3-1969 Shri Piahlad Rai Sharma, Tl/ 
GGC was appointed enqui/y officei to enquire into the 
charges framed against Abdul Rahim. On 12-3-1969 a 
notice was issued by the cnquiiy officer to the workman in 
which he was asked to be picscnl in person and submit a 
list of his witnesses who he uesned to bring at the enquiry. 
On 26-3-1969 the applicant mloimed the enquiry officer 
that Shri S. M. Goyal, Scnioi Clerk of the Divisional Ac- 
counts Office, Kotuh will be his defence counsel at the en- 
quiiy. On 12-4-1969 the charges were lead over and ex- 
plained to the delinquent workman Abdul Rahim and he 
denied the charges. On the same day the enquiry officcr 
examined Abdul Wahid and the enquiry was posted to 
19-4-1969. On 19-4-1969 the applicant filed an application 
that since Shri S. N. Goyal, Senior Clerk, DAO/KTT and 
defence counsel and Shi i M. T. Chawarekur, Senior Clcik 
were not informed of the date of enquiry they have not 
attended the same and therefore the workman requested the 
enquiry officer to li\ another date of hearing. There is a 
joint note of that dav dated 19-4-1969 Mgned bv the cnquiiy 
officer and Shri LuKhicsthd, Clerk D Vs office and C.P. 
Saxena. H,C D.S’s oiiicc to the dlect that since Shri Abdul 
Rahim, telegraph Peon who was sent to call for his defence 
counsel at 11-15 hours has not turned up so far the cn- 
quiiy is postponed till further. In the letter of Shri Abdul 
Rahim dated 19-4-1969 it was also mentioned that it was 
not possible foi him to give anothci name at present and it 
was also not possible to go imdei enquiry without defence 
counsel and on 9-5-1969 Shri Vikaiamjit Singh and Shri 
V. V. Kulshrcsthu clerk were examined. On 10-5-1969 Shri 
Goyal Defence Counsel infoimed the enquiry officer that 
due to some unavoidable circumstances he was unable to 
attend the enquiry on that day at 8 a,m. and wanted another 
suitable date, till such time Slui C. P. Saxena will also be 
available, The enquiry officer refused to adjomn the en- 
quny and noted that since he was camping there since yester- 
day only for enquiry and no other l cason the letter was re- 
turned per hearer Shri Abdul Rahim and he was advised to 
arrange attendance ol Shri S. N. Goyal ur attend enquiry 
without defence counsel failing which proceedings would 
continue ex-pailc. Shri Guyal then uddicsscd a lcttei to the 
enquiry officer that he has seen the remarks on the letter 
sent by him and the enquiry could not continue in his 
absence and his pressing the workman was quite h regular 
and icqucstcd the enquiry officer to ai range some other dale 
so as C P. Saxena could also attend the same and he is the 
main figure to throw light on the subject, 

9. the findings were drawn ex-parte by the cnquiiy officer 
and he held the charges against him proved. On this the 
disciplinary authority issued a show cause notice on 11-7-1969 
as to why he should not be removed from service. The 
findings of the enquiry officer was enclosed with this notice. 
The applicant submitted an application to AOS KTT on 
24-7-1969 stating that the enquiry was not properly conducted 
bv the enquiry officer and no reasonable opportunity was 
afforded to him for defending himself against the charges. 
The disciplinary authority record :d the statement of the 
applicant and in between examined Shri Saxena and Abdul 
Wahid and passed an order oil 17-9-1969 imposing on him 
the extreme penalty of removal from service of the workman 
and ordered issue of necessary notice. On 16-9-1969 notice 
of romoval from service was issued to the workman remov- 
ing him from service. 

10, The question to be unsweied in this refeience is whe- 
ther the dismissal of the workman was legal and justified. 


11. It is now well sotted by various decisions that if an 
industiiul employee's services aic terminated alter a proper 
domestic enquiry held rn accordance with ihe principles of 
natural justice and the conclusions reached at the enquiry 
are not pcl verse, the industrial tribunal is not entitled to con- 
sider the propriety oi the correctness of the said conclusions. 
But the said decisions do not mean that the mere form of an 
enquiry would satisfy the requirements of industrial law and 
would protect the disciplinary action taken by the employer 
from challenge. An enquiry cannot be said lo have been 
properly held unless. 


(i) the employee proceeded against has been informed 
clearly of charges levelled against him, 

(ii) the witnesses are examined— -oidinaiily in the 

presence of the employee in icspect of the 
charges, 

(iii) the employee is given a fair opportunity to cross- 
examine witnesses, 

(iv) he is given a fair opportunity to examine vyitnesses 
including himself in his defence if he so wishes on 
any relevant matter, and 

(v) the enquiry officer records his findings with reasons 
for the same in his leport. 

Where the enquiring officer based his t conclusions against 
the concerned w'oikman on the report given by other emp- 
loyees behind the back of the concerned workman without 
giving copies of such repoit to him and without making them 
available for cross-examination at the enquiry, the enquiry 
must be held unfair. 1 am supported in my view by the ruling 
imported in 1963 II LU 369. It is no longer open to con- 
tiovcrsy that after the introduction of section 11 A in the 
l.D. Act it is open to this Tribunal to interfere with the 
order of dismissal passed by the employer when the findings 
a i rived at the enquiry arc perverse or the management is 
guilty of victimization, unfair labour practice or falafidc. 

It is also open to the Tribunul to interfere if the punishment 
imposed is harsh so as to suggest victimization. The Tri- 
bunal has therefore to bj satisfied that the order of dis- 
charge oi dismissal was justified, I am supported in my 
view by the observations of the Supreme Court in the 
ruling reported in 1973 II LLT 278. 

12. Hearing in mind the above dicision of the Supreme 
Court, T have to approach to the decision of the case. The 
Tribunal has to see whether the dismissal of the workman 
on the giound oi alleged misconduct was justified. After 
having gone through the entire matciial on iccord, I am 
compelled to say that this enquiry can legitimately be describ- 
ed as a symposium of all the h regularities and illegalities 
that can be thought of in connection with a domestic en- 
quiiv. The enquiry officer has not at all adhered to the 
provisions embodied in the Railway Servants (Discipline & 
Appeal) Rules, 1968. After examining the three witnesses 
on behalf of the employers Sarvashri Vikramajitsingh, Kul- 
shrestha and Abdul Wahid he should have afforded an opppr- 
trinity to the delinquent workman to lead his evidence, which 
is not done. When an application for adjournment was 
given to him on 10-5-1969 on behalf of the defence counsel 
Shri Goyal the enquiry officer should have adjourned the en- 
quiry instead of insisting on the applicant to anangc for the 
attendance of Shri Goyal especially when Shri Goyal after 
he was intimated of the refusal had again addressed an appli- 
cation to him to adjourn the hearing so as to enable Shri 
Saxena also to attend the same. Instead of adjourning the 
enquiry the enquiry officer draw up his findings ex parte on 
8-7-1969, It clearly appears that the workman was present 
oji 10-5-1969 as the letter of Shri Goyal on that day was 
icturncd through him. Shri Abdul Rahim was present before 
the enquiry officer on 9-5-1969. Accoiding lo Rule 9(15) of 
the Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1968, 
the inquiring authority may after the lailway servant closes 
his case and shall if the lailway seivant has not examined 
himself generally question him on the ciicumstances appear- 
ing against him in the evidence for the purpose of enabling the 
Kulway servant to explain any circumstances appearing in the 
evidence against him. Jn this case after the witnesses Abdul 
Wahid, Vikramajit Singh and Kulshrestha were examined it 
was incumbent on the enquiry officer lo have questioned Shri 
Abdul Rahim as to the circumstances appearing against him 
in (he evidence of the above persons to enable Abdul Rahim 
to explain the circumstances appearing against him especially 
as Shri Abdul Rahim had not examined himselt. But no such 
thing was done. On the application dated 24-7-1969 by the 
workman the disciplinary authority again examined Abdul 
Rahim, Saxena and. Abdul Wahid Rule 10 of the rules pro- 
vides that if the disciplinary authority having regard to its 
own findings whcic it i 9 itself the inquiring authority or hav- 
ing regard to its decision on all or any of the findings of the 
inquiring authority is of the opinion that the penalty warrant- 
ed is 4 -uch as is within the competence that authority may act 
on the evidcnc on record or ma\ if it is of opinion that fur- 
ther examination oi any ol the witnesses is nccessaiy in the 



3740 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [PARf^t- 


interest of justice recall the witness and examine-cross-examine 
and re-examine the witness and may impose on the railway 
servant such penalty as ia within its competence in accordance 
with these uilcs. Where such disciplinary authority is of the 
opinion that the penalty warranted is such as is not within 
its competence that authority shall forwmd the records of the 
enquiry to the appropriate disciplinary authority who shall act 
in the manner as hereinafter provided: 

The disciplinary authority, if it is not itself the inquiring 
authority may for reasons to be recorded by it in 
writing remit the case to the inquiring authority for 
further enquiiy and lcpoil and the inquiring autho- 
rity shall thetc upon proceed to hold further enquiry 
according to the piovisions of Rule 9 os far as may 
be. 

The disciplinary authority shall, if it disagrees with the 
findings of the inquiring authority on any article of 
charge record its reasons for such disagreement and 
record its own findings on such charge if the evi- 
dence on record is sufficient for the purpose. 

(4) If the disciplinary authority having regard to its 
findings on all or any of the articles of charge is of 
the opinion that any of the penalties specified in 
clauses (i) to (iv) of Sub-rule (1) ana clauses (I) 
and (ii) of Sub-iule (2) of Rule 6 should be impos- 
ed on the railway servant, ft shall, nolwithstandine 
anything contained in Rule 11, make on order impos- 
ing such penalty: 

Provided that in every case where it is nccessaiy to con- 
sult the Commission the Tecord of the inquiry shall 
be fonvaided by the disciplinary authority to the 
Commission for its advice and such advice shall be 
taken into consideration before making any order 
imposing any penalty on the railway servant 

13. The disciplinary authority is therefore empowcied under 
rule 10 to further examine any of the witnesses in the interest 
of justice recall the witnesses and examine, cross-examine and 
re-examine and may impose on the railway servant such renal- 
ty as is within its competence in accordance with these rules. 
Rule 10 did not empower the disciplinary authority to exa- 
mine Abdul Rahim. The disciplinary authority if he w r as not 
prone to accept the findings of the enquiry officer and felt that 
the interests of justice demanded that further examination of 
the witness was necessaiy should have recalled Abdul Wahid, 
and other witnesses but he had no authority to examine Abdul 
Rahim. It was tor Abdul Rahim to have examined himseff 
and if he failed to do so the disciplinary authority should have 
never questioned hint on the circumstances appearing against 
him, in the examination of Abdul Rahim Searching ques- 
tions were put to him, It was after Abdul Rahim was exa- 
mined that Shri Saxena and Abdul Wahid were examined by 
the disciplinary authority which is a wholly irregulai proce- 
dure. This is not the only irregularity committed by the dis- 
ciplinary authority. The disciplinary authority has completely 
overlooked sub-rule (5) of Rule 10 which provides; 

5(i) If the disciplinary authority having lcgard to its 
findings on all or any of the articles of charge is 
of the opinion that any of the penalties specified in 
clauses (v) to (i\) of Sub-iule (1) of Rule 6 should 
be imposed on the railway seivant it shall — 

U0 furnish to the railway servant a copy of the report 
of the enquiry held by it and its findings on each 
article of charge, or where the inquiry has been 
held by an inquiring authority appointed by it n 
copy of the report of such authority and a state- 
ment of its findings on each article of charge to- 
gether with brief reasons for its disagreement, if 
any, with the findings of the inquiring authority, 

(b) give the railway servant a notice stating he penalty 
proposed to be imposed on him and calling upon 
him to submit within a specified time, ordina- 
rily not exceeding fifteen days from the date of the 
receipt of the notice subject to a minimum of 
seven days, such representation as he may wish 
to make on the proposed penalty on the basis of 
the evidence adduced during the inquiry held under 


No copy of the report and his findings were furnished to Shri 
\bdul Rahim. No notice was also given to Shri Abdul 
Rahim stating the penalty proposed to be imposed upon him 
und caling upon him to submit within a specified lime oidi- 
nanly not exceeding 15 days from the date of the icceipt of 
the notice subject to a minimum of seven Jays asking him 
to make such representation as he wish to make on the 
proposed penalty on the basis of the evidence adduced during 
the enquiiy is yet another Rule 9. 


14. There is yet another interesting and amusing aspect of 
the enquiiy which renders the entire enquiry to tic a farce, 
The enquiiy officer had given his findings on 17-9-1969 and 
by his order imposed the extieme penalty of lcmoval from 
service. Bui curiously enough on 16-6-1969 a notice was 
issued to Abdul Rahim tcnioving him from service with im- 
mediate effect which is a day earlier lhan the removal order 
passed by the enquiry officer. This cleaily manifests that (he 
disciplinary authority had made up him mind on 16-9-1969 
to remove the workman fiom service and the order dated 
17-9-1969 was an afterthought subsequently brought into exis- 
tence in ordei to justify the older of removal dated 16-9-1969. 
The entire enquiiy is therefore vitiated and the older of re- 
moval on this scove alone cannot be sustained 


15. There is another lacuna to be found in the entue pro- 
ceedings. The recital of the charges is hopelessly vague. U 
i 3 not indicated in the chaige as to from what date the appli- 
cant was in unauthorized occupation of the railway quaiters 
and what was the misconduct of the applicant, The absence 
of these pariiculais to my mind sufficiently prejudiced 
the applicant in putting forwmd his case. 


16. A close secrutiny of the material on record fully con- 
vinces me that there was not any scnous misconduct on the 
part of the workman justifying his iemoval liom service, The 
workman clearly appeals to have make a victim and the real 
mischief appeals to have been committed by Shri Abdul 
Wahid who surprisingly enough has been exonerated and has 
not been charge-sheeted, Shri Abdul Rahim was made a 
scapegoat and made a victim of disciplinary enquny. This 
is not mere conjuecLure on my pait but thcie is sufficient ma- 
terial to justify my conclusions. U clcmly emerges from the 
evidence of Vikramajitsingh lecoided by the enquiry officer 
that quuiter No. T/485 D type was allotted to Shri Abdul 
Wahid on 20-6-1967. It u> also stated by the witness that on 
21-7-1967 letter S3 ,/qnai ter was addiessed to D,S. (E) DPO 
(PR) KTT C/HOWMD and AbF-KJT copy of which was 
endoised to Shi i A Wahid. It dearly emerges fiom the evi- 
dence of Shri Vikinmujitsingh that as pet the legister Shri 
Pannalal and Shri Abdul Wahid both applied for the quarter 
on 19-4-1966 at register No. 9 and 10 lespectively and they 
exchanged their turns. It is admitted by Abdul Wahid that 
he got his name legislcied on oidl request to the Head Clerk 
or CC and he does not lemcmbei whether he had given a 
written application. It was deposed by KuMneshlhn bcfoie 
the enquiiy officer that Qr No 4/485/D type r was allotted 
to Shri Abdul Wahid P/M an KTT on 26-6-1967 vide S.M, 
KITT letter No. S/3/Qliis dated 27-7-68 at CP/178 (on the 
No, E/T/58/2/1KTT) It docs not stand to reason that 
when Shri Abdul Wahid had applied for registration of the 
quartei on 19-4-1966 he w r ould not have made enquiries as to 
the allotment of the quaiters to him. It is difficult to believe 
his uncorroborated evidence that only when deductions weic 
made he enquired of Saxcna at the time of receiving payment 
and that he was told by Saxcna that the deductions may be of 
some arrears in 1961-62 Shri Abdul Wahid says in his evi- 
dence before the disciplinary authority that he does not know 
evady when deductions wcie made from salary but he presu- 
mes that when these deductions were made he must have 
come to know these deductions soon after and he states that 
he continued to enquire fiom Saxena as to the reasons for 
deductions from his salary and he continued to give him some 
reply which silenced him. 1 atci when he made enquiries 
from Vikramjitsingh ns to why the deductions weie being 
made from his salary to said that the deductions w-erc being 
made for electric installation charges and that he was not 
getting house allowance. No such story was narrated by 
Shri Abdul Wahid before the enquiry officer. VikrarrmjiU 
singh had not slated a word in his evidence about this as- 
peet of the matter that Shri Abdul Wahid had approached 
him and enquired about the deductions that were made from 
his sat at y. No attempt was made by the disciplinary autho- 
rity to elicit these fact from C.P. Saxena. It is difficult to 



3741 


gzc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


believe the version of Shri Abdul Wahid that he was un- 
award of the allotment and that he was not in Joint occupa- 
tion of the premises along with Shri Abdul Rahim. Shri 
Abdul Rahim had given an application exhibit W-l address- 
ed to the D.O.S. (E) through the Station Maslei, Kotah rc : 
questing that he wants to have a joint occupation with Shri 
Abdul VYahid who was willing to accommodate him with 
the permission of the D.O.S. Snri Abdul Wahid had endors- 
ed on this application that he was willing to accommodate 
Shri Abdul Rahim with him in his quarter. Theie is an 
endorsement of the receipt of this application by the S.M. 
on 8-3-1968. The Station Master had made an endowment 
forwarding the application that he has no objection if pei- 
mission is granted for joint occupation. Aceoiding to the 
statement ol Shri C. P. Saxena Abdul Rahim gave his appli- 
cation for joint occupation on 8-3-1968. Shri Saxena says 
that this application was foi warded to AOS(E) KTT, and 
this application is in his office file No. S. 3/Qr. Shri Saxena 
in his evidence says that there was no covering letter to the 
application and it was sent by making endorsement on the 
original application. Shri Vikramajitsingh before the en- 
quiry officer had stated that the original application received 
on 8-3-1968 by Shri C. P, Saxena was available on the file 
of SM/KTT with an endorsement for forwarding the same 
with no objection and signed by SM/LTTT on 9-4-1968 but 
not sent to D.SNofflce as the original is still available on the 
file of SM/KTTT. Abdul Wahid in his evidence before the 
cnquiiy officer has admitted that the application bears his sig- 
nature but he says that it was not signed by him by Shri 
Abdul Ruhim when he was working in the yard. He was 
told that the application was sent by CC for signature and it 
was in connection with some case of quarter and hence he 
signed it undci a wrong impression given to him. But con- 
tiury is the statement of Abdul Wahid befoic the discipli- 
nary authority. There he stated that he never occupied 
Qu alter No. T/485 D. One day when he was working in 
DN yard as pointsman Shri Abdul Rahim came in the yard 
with a icgister and an application written in English and told 
him that Shri Saxena, Head Cleik had sent him with this 
paper which was a rcpoit against him from D. S. office 
Saxena had asked him to sign that report. Accordingly he 
signed it thinking that it was a icport fiom D.S’s office, 
these contradictoiy statements of Abdul Wahid clearly betray 
that he had signed the application knowing full well 
its contents and he is now giving varying statements in 
older to show r that he had not signed the application 
for joint occupation. Exhibit E- 4 also shows that 
Shri Abdul Wahid was in joint occupation along 
with Shri Abdul Rahim. The letter exhibit E-4 is 

written by S.M. Kotah to Abdul Rahim dated 23-8-1968 in 
which notice is given to Abdul Rahim to vacate the quarter 
within 7 days ns Shri Abdul Wahid does want joint occupa- 
tion to continue failing which DAR action will be taken 
against him as per A.C.S RTFs letter. This letter clearly 
proves the joint occupation of Abdul Rahim with Abdul 
Wahid. It is only belatedly on 26-6-1968 that he makes 

mention of the fact that he had pci milted Abdul Rahim to 

occupy the the quarters lor three or foui months as Abdul 

Rahim had requested him to permit him to stay in the rail- 
way quarters for some lime and that he will take a house 
on rent and requested in exhibit LM7 the railway authorities 
to get the quarter vacated by Shri Abdul Rahim. It does 
not stand to reason that Shri Abdul Wahid would have sign- 
ed the application without being aware of its contents. The 
explanation given by him for signing the application is found 
to be false. The conclusion is irresistible that Abdul Wahid 
had premilted Abdul Rahim to jointly occupy the premises 
with him. Tt is tiue that Abdul Wahid could not 
have jointly occupied the premises with Abdul 
Rahim without obtaining the sanction of the D.S. 
But. then it was for the S. M. Kotah to whom the joint 
application was given to have forwarded it to the said 
authority. If he failed to do so the fault does not lie at 
the door of the illiterate workman Abdul Rahim w'ho assum- 
ed that permission will be granted to him by the D. S. espe- 
cially as the S. M. Kotah had no objection to joint occupa- 
tion and an cndojsemenl to that effect was made by him 
in the application. It did not lie in the mouth of Saxena in 
the face of the cndoiscmcnt to say that he did not permit 
Abdul Rahim to jointly occupy the railway quaitcrs along 
with Abdul Wahid. According to Kulshreshtha whose evi- 
dence W'as recorded by the enquiry officer Abdul Rahim had 
sent an application for allotment on 27-7-1968, 30-8-1968 
and 11-10-1968 and from the application it appears that 
he had applied for allotment of quaitcrs on 25-10-1958 
29-6-1959, 17-11-1959, 7-3-1960, 22-8-60, 21-1-1961, 


24-9-1961 and th 9 last one was submitted on 6-1-1967. Shri 
Kulshreshtha also submitted that as pci S M,*s letter No. 53/ 
Qr, dated 13-12-1968 on file No I r/5R/2(KTT) the 
mime of Abdul Rahim was lcgisleicd for allotment on 
6-1-1967. This shows that Shri Abdul Rahim was all along 
making efforts to secure the allotment of railway quarters. 
Theic is no doubt in my mind that Shri Abdyl Wahid had 
permitted Shri Abdul Rahim to jointly occupy the railway 
quarters along with him fiom 6-3-1968 and it was a belated 
attempt on the part of Abdul Wahid to show that Abdul 
Rahim had taken the rail wav quarters to reside there for 
some time and later was not vacating the piemises. It is 
true that Shri Abdul Rahim should have vacated the premis- 
es when asked for by the railway authorities but it cannot 
be said that he was in unauthorized occupation since the 
original allottee Abdul Wahid had permitted him to jointly 
occupy the quarters which fact was known to the S. M. 
Kotah and who had rermitted them to jointly occupy the 
piemises I Iheicfoic feel that Ihcie was no serious mis- 
conduct in these circumstances to warrant his removal from 
service. This apart, 1 have held that the whole enquiry 
was not conducted in consonance with the rules and the 
principles of natural justice were freely violated in this case 
which renders the enquiry illegal and the order of lemovnl 
illegal and unjustified. 

17. Another factor has to be taken to be taken into ac- 
count which also intiodiices a serious infirmity in enquiry 
conducted by the disciplinary authority is the punishment 
imposed by the enquiry officer. The punishment imposed is 
disproportionate to the alleged misconduct of unauthorized 
occupation of the premises. Action could have been taken 
against the woikman by resorting to the Public Premises 
Eviction Act instead of imposing the penalty of removal from 
service which indicates tne partiality of the disciplinary 
authority towards the workman. Viewed in any context the 
removal from service of the workman by the disciplinary 
authority is illegal and cannot be justified. 

18, Now the question arises as to what relief the work- 
man is entitled. As the enquiry is held to be illegal nnd 
void there is no other alternative but to direct the reinstate- 
ment of the workman. J theiefoie direct that the woikman 
Abdul Rahim, Telegraph Peon will be reinstated in seivice 
to his former post with all back wages fiom the date of 
his suspension with continuity of service. 

The reference is answeicd accoidinglv. 

R. RANH AL KISHtN, Piesiding Officer. 

I No 1 41 012/32/72 /LRIil] 
New Delhi, the 16th December, 1974 

5.O. 3454,- In puisuance of section 17 uf (he Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1°47 (14 of 1947), jhc C ential Government 
hereby publishe, the following aw.nd of the Industrial Tri- 
bunal Dibrugarh, in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the management of Assam Oil Company 
Limited, Digboi and then woi kmen, which was icccivcd by 
the Central Government on the 6th Decembei, 1974. 


BELORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL, ASSAM AT DTBRUGARH 

PRESENT: 

Shri G. N. Borah, M.A., LLB., Barrirtcr-at-law Presiding 
Officer, Ccntial Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Assam, 
Dibrugarh. 

I ci the mutter ol an industrial dispute between 

The Management of Messers. Assam Oil Company Ltd., 
Digbo< 

AND 

Their workmen iepresentcd by Assam Oil Company 
labour Union, Digboi. 

REFERENCE No CENTL. 23 OL 1970 

AWARD 

Bv o^der Nn 7(3)/70-I.R-IV dated lfiih. October, 1970 
the Ccntial Government in the Ministiy of Labour and Re- 
habilitation (Derailment of labour and EmpluvmenO in exci- 



3742 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part IT, 


rise of 'he pow ei s conferred by Clause (d) of Sub-section 
(1) of Section 1° of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047, referred 
to this "hihumil foi adtudication nn industrial dispute exis- 
ting between tlu management of Assam Oil Company ltd.. 
Digboi, and ihcii woikm.m lepicscnted by Assam Oil Company 
Inborn Union, Diybui. in icspeet of the mutter specified in 
the Schedule mentioned below:— 

SCHEDUI I 


Oil Company Ltd., shall stand and will be consideicd as 
final. Assam nil Company Ltd., will however make ex-gratia 
payment of Rs 5,000 (Rupees five thousand) only in full 
and final settlement of his case which is cnncntly pending 
a J iud lent ion before the industrial Tribunal (Central) at Dib- 

i iigaib 

2 The above amount will be paid within 30 dais from 
l he date of signing this Mcmojundum of Settlement. 


“WhUhci the management of Messeis Assam Oil com' 
pany 1 imiled, Digboi, is justified in dischaigmg Si i 
H abib Ah, Rcgistci cd No. 30879, with effect Lorn 
the 2nd December, 1961, from employment'.’ Jf not, 
to whnr relict Sii All is entitled?” 

On i^ccipt of this Older, this was duly legistered and no- 
tices were issued to the parties to file their icspective Writ- 
ten Statements. But before the pa i tics could file any Written 
Statements on this icfcrence, this Tribunal received an Older 
fiom the Hon’Ne High Couit staying .ill proceedings and 
calling foi the iccoids of this refeience in view of a rule 
issued by the said Court on a writ petition filed by the mana- 
gement questioning die validity of this reference. In view of 
this Older fioni the Flor’hlc High Court, the iccoids in this 
reference was ^i' to the snid Couit. Thereaftei, the Hon’ble 
High Couit was pleased Lo send back the iccords of this case 
to this Tribunal i ejecting the management’s application. The 
Tribunal + hcret\ie had to issue fresh notice to the panics to 
file their Written Statement in this case. In response to this 
notice, the parties filed their Written Statements and also 
Additional Written Statements. 


l Both the pm ties to the Reference, viz. Assam Oil Com- 
pan> ltd, and AO.C. labour Union shall submit a joint 
petition before the Presiding Office!, Industrial Tribunal 
(Cenli :il), with „ request lo accept the Terms of fitttlemeut 
mutually agreed upon by the parties concerned and pass 
nccessaiy oidcts accordingly in the foim of an Award. 


SIGNED 


Digboi, the 

for Assam Oil Co. Ltd. 
SdyLR.L. Barooah 
Sd/^S. Bhargdva 


Witnesses: 

1. Sd/-T. Saikia 

2, Sd/-Bhaskar Durta 


18th December, 1973 

for A.O.C, Labour Union 
Sd/-N, Biswas 
Sd/-R. Sahi 
SM/-A.C Borpuzau 
Witnesses 

1. Sd/-P.R, Sen 

2 . SJ/-G.N. Kakoty " 
G. N. BORAH, Presiding Officer 


Thei caftei before this case could be fixed for heai ing, the par- 
ties filed a joint petition of compromise annexing with it a 
Memorandum of Settlement under section INN) and 2(P) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, I have been through the teims 
of the settlement and find these reasonable. I theiefore give 
niv award in terms of the settlement arrived at between the 
parties, a copy of which is annexed herewith and maikcd ns — 
Anncxwe bV and this will foi m a pmt ol my award. 


ANNEXURE L A” 

“MEMORANDUM OP SETTLEMENT 

(Under Section j8(1) and 2(P) of the Industrial Disputes 
* Act, 1947) 

Rcpiesenting the l\ulie v * 

EMPLOYER : 

Assam Oil Comp tnv limited, Digboi, ^ssam 

Shti R. L Baiooah, Industrial Relations Manager. 

Shri S. Bhaigava, Senior Industrial Relations Officer. 
WORKMEN : 

Assa Oil Co, Labour Union, Reg. No. 43, Digboi, Assam. 
Shri N, Biswas, President 
Shi i A C. Paul, Joint Sccrclmy 
Shri \, C. Boipuzdii, Joint Secretary 
Shii R Sahi, Vice-President. 


SnORT HI ( 1TAL OP THE CASE 

Ai (he instance of the Inborn Union, the Govern- 

ment of India, Mulish y of Laboui. vide theii Order of Ref- 
erence Mo, 7(3)/70-LRMV dated 16-10-1970 rcfciicd an 
Industrial dispute in respect of issue of dismissal of Shu 
Habib AI i, Reg No. 30807 from services of Assam Oil Com- 
pany with effect fiom 2-12-1961 foi eomitting u misconduct 
under the Company’s Standing Order Rules. This O rde r of 
Reference has unce been registered as Ref. No CLNTL. 23 
of J 970 befotc the Picsiding Officci, Tndustnal Tiibunal 
(Cential) at Dihruguih, the adjudication pioceedings of which 
is now pend in ** before the said Tnbun.il. The parlies have 
in the meant iim discussed between ihcmsclvcs the possibility 
of settling the case amicably out of the Tribunal P.oceedmgN 
and after n series of discussions finally reached a settlement 
tlS pei terms and conditions given hcicunder, 

TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 


[No- 7(3) 70 — LR TV] 

f^fr, 1 7 19 7 4 

'flu RTo 3 i 5 5 — + H m fc hr pRJ 

TTT4T if fafirft 7 ^ fatPTT % *f!T if LTfiTff RTTffT 

(5THTTC ) f'TffHT, TtfrT- 1 % Wipf* if 

fin rim ufir qnfcm T eft* 7^ ?fcfrftr^ fwnr 

£ , 

sfri arr, wrrirfirwT faq 

f^fypT Madfir % , 

sfaftfW 1947 ( 1947 ^114) 

y"HT 7 -t trm iu ( 1 ) T my (^r) sect 

W "TT f T TFjffq- Tpr^TT ir^ iq^frfirT srfft- 

t, srfenrrfl- sft £to 

iffif farm if ?fErr s rV farr* qft tt 

'FT iqfii'JN'T % fspr fi^fffff £ \ 

Trhyq ^ firfirry, q^Errir 

W7TTT ^ 3<MM973 TT m % fi?TT 2 U 

^rfwd tT ttbt wrnfrPrr qfr ^ dt ^frmr 
w w ^nfr Trf^rr ? 

[7T^ UTfo- ^0 1 1 / 7 / 74-'fforrtry y \ o/^o 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

TkG. 34S5. — Where is the Cential Government is of oomion 
I bat an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
1 elation to the management of Messis Collis Line (Private) 
I imited, SUamci Owners, Cochin and their woikmcn in res- 
pect of the matters specified in the Schedule heieto annexed; 

And, wheieas, the Cential Goveiiunent considers it desirable 
to refer the said dispute tor adjudication; 


L 4 Ijm tcimiiuiLnui of iCiMce of Shu Habib .Mi, Reg No 
30807 with cfleci from 2-12-1961 from the scivice of Assam 


Nnvv therefore, in cxcieiso ol the powers confeiicd by sec- 
tion 7 \ and elanve (d) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the 



3743 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 197-1/ PAI SA 7- 1896 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shii I. Pulaniappan shall be the Piesiding Office] with head 
quaiicrs at Madras and let'ers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the said Tnbunal 

SCHEDUI E 

Whether the workmen of Messrs ( oIJis Line (Private) 1 uni- 
ted Cochin are justified in demanding 20 per cent bonus for 
the year ending 30th September, 1973 t if not, what should 
be the quantum of bonus lf 

[No, L-3501 1/7/74-PD/CMT] 


New Delhi, the 18th Decembci, 1974 

S,0. 3456.“ In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the State Bank of India, 
Jabalpur and their workmen, which was received by the Cen- 
tral Government on the 13th December, 1974. 

CENTRAL government industrial tribunal 
CUM-LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated 6-12-1974. 

Case No. CGIT/LC(R)(19) of 1974 

(Notification No. I., 1201 2/44 /74/LRlll dated August 26, 

1974) 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of Stale Bank 
of India and their workman, V. D. Hardikar, Clerk- 
fvpist a< their Medical College Branch, Jabalpur. 

APPEARANCES ; 

For the Workman — Mr. P. S, Nair. 

Foi the Bank — Mr. V. S. Pandit. 

Industry: State Bank of India. District : Jabalpur flVf.P.) 

AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947- It is directed for the determination of 
the question: — 

“Whether the action of the management of State Bank 
of India, Jabalpur in discharging Shii V, D. Hardi- 
kar, Clerk-typist at their Medical College Branch, 
Jabalpur from service with effect from the 6th July 
1973 is justified? If not, to what relief is he en- 
titled ?" 

Hardikar was appointed as a Clcrk-cum-Typist in the State 
Bank of India, Katni on 14-9-1966, He was working in the 
Medical College Branch of the State Bank of India, Jabalpur 
in 1971, He was given a memo dated 20-1-1972 by the 
Agent of the Medical College Branch of the Bank which 
says: — 

“Please submit your explanation for the entries as per 
list enclosed, made by you in the Regisleied Letters 
Despatch Register on the Branch, for which the 
relative postal receipts are not traceable on record, 
within a period of seven days from the receipt of 
this letter failing which it would be presumed that 
you have no explanation to offer and we would 
proceed further in the matter ” 

The enclosed list mentioned eleven regisleied covers which 
were all said to have been despatched from 17-5-1971 to 
7-6-1971 It may be mentioned that according to Hardikar 
he sent the aforesaid memo of Ihc Agent dated 20 1-1972 to 
the Assistant General Secretary of the State Bank of India <k. 
Subsidiary Banks Employees’ Union, heicinaftcr called the 
Union, and the Gcneial Secretary of the Union was said 
to have discussed the mattei with the anthoi ities concerned 
of the Bank. Shi i S. S. Pathak sent a draft replv along with 


a letter dated 6-5-1972 to the local Secretary of the Union, 
Medical College Branch, Jabalpur, Ex. W/3, in which he 
said : — ■ 

“With reference to your representation at the time of 
am last visit, we have to advise having discussed 
the matter with the Management. Please anaugc to 
get the enclosed explanation submitted by Shri 
Hardikar duly signed under advice to us n 

Hardikarks reply dated 10th May, 1972 Ex. E/7 was in ac- 
cordance with the aforesaid draft reply. Ex. W/4. It said: — 

41 1 beg to state that whilst performing my duties I 

had observed a shortage of postage stamps worth 
Rs. 10 and while i brought this to the notice of 
one of my colleagues, he told me that I should adjust 
the same as though certain registered letters were 
sent by me for the aggregate amount, which I had 
unintentionally did so as to offset the said loss. I 
may assure you, Sir, that f had (o intention what- 
soever of pilfering that amount or committing a 
fraud on the Bank. If T had any such intention 
it would not have been for such a petty amount. 

I shall be vciy much thankful to you if yon would 
kindly pardon me for this great, lapse on my part 
and assure you of no such repetition during the entire 
tenure of my service in future. I have a large family 
of 5 sisters to maintain and should I be penalised 
by the loss of my bread, my entire family would be 
left in lurch. 

I have, therefore, to very kindly request your goodself 
to take a very compassionate view on me and my 
family and grant me any lesser punishment other 
than dismissal for which I shall always remain ob* 
liged to your goodself ” 

The Agent of the Medical College Branch, Shri V, K, Kher 
sent a chargcshcct to Hardikar on 12-7-1973, Ex. W/l, which 
said : 

“ you misappropriated a sum of Rs. 14.60 from 

postage Account at the branch by making fictitious 
entries in the Registered Letters Despatched Register 
in icspcct of under noted letteis which were not at 
all sent by registered post ” 

It was further stated that “the above charges, if established 
would amount to gross misconduct in terms of the 
provisions of the Award." 

By the aforesaid chargcshcct, the applicant, Hardikar was 
asked lo submit his explanation to the Agent within a week. 
He was further informed that “an cnquiiy will be held by 
Shii G. S. Pande. Agent Tularani Chowk (Jabalpur) Branch, 
at this office on July 29, 1972 at 3.00 p.m, to enable you to 
give your explanation in person and produce any evidence 
that you may wdsh to tender in your defence.” He was fur- 
Iher informed by the afoiesaid chaigcshect that he might ar- 
range for any witness whom he desired to bo examined in his 
defence. On receiving the afoiesaid chargcshcct, Hardikar 
informed the Agent by his letter dated 18-7-1972, E\. W/2, 
in which he said : “With reference to your Memorandum No. 
S/54 dated 12th July 1972, I have foi warded the above men- 
tioned memorandum to our Asstt. General Secretary Shri 
S. S. Pathak. A> soon as F gel the lenlv of the memorandum 

from him I will submit my explanation immediately " 

In his reply dated 29-7-1972. Ex. E/9, Hardikar again re- 
peated what he had said in his earlier leply to the Agent, 
Ex. E/7. 

The Enquiry Officci. Shri G, S, Pandcy, conducted the 
enquiry against Hrdihav. A copy of the proceedings of the 
enquiry is E\. E/t. The enquiry commenced on 29-7-1972, 
Hardikar requested for postponement as Shri S. S. Pathak, 
Assistant General Secretary of the Union was not able to 
attend the proceeding. The proceedings say : “The enquiry 
officer, Shri Pondc, tried to contact Shri R f B. Joshi, Manager 
Personnel, Bhopal T ocal Head Office, to obtain his advice 
on this point, but could not contact him. The enquiiy officer, 
there foie, postponed, in anticipation of his aopiovul for ihe 
postponement of the enquitv . , \gnin on 29 8-1972 

Haidikar pinyed foi posfnoncnlcnt of (he enquiry proceed- 
ing on the gi on nd that Sh- i Pathak was not able to attend 

Uif' proceedings The proceedings say “ Shii Kher 

has no objection to the postponement of ihe enquiry. An 
advice fiom the Regional Mnnagei. Bhopal was obtained by 



3744 THL GAZE! IE Of INDIA DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part li- 


the Enquuy Officer, Shri Pandc and it was decided that the 
next date for cnqimv be fixed on 18th September 1972 ’ 
Again on 18th September 1972, Shri Pathak was absent, but 
the enquuy proceeded in the absence of Haidikar’s represen- 
t itivc The chaigcs were read out to Hardikar by the Enquiry 
Officer and the latter asked Haidikar as to what he had to 
say about the charges He said “I admit the charges framed 
issued to me vide Medical College Bianch of charges 
No 5/54 of the 12th July 1972 1 have to state that Registered 
letteis detailed in Items No v vi, vn, & vnl have actually 
been despatched by me by Registered post ” He further 
stated that 4 to the best of my knowledge these four covers 
wcie despatched by me by registered post I do not, at this 
lime, lccollect the disposal ot the postal icceipts in respect 
of these items " The Enquiry Offlcei then asked Shn 
Kher as to what he had to say m respect of items nos v vi, 
vu, and v ui In his reply Shri Kher said “Shri Hardikar. 
should pioduce the documentary evidence in support of his 
statement When again Hardikai was asked to state anything 
further in respect of the charges levelled against him 
Hardikai ’s reply was recorded in Hindi It said that he had 
noted a shortage of Rs 10 and when on the next day it 
17-5 1972, he asked for the amount from Tiwan messenger 
Ewan refused Then he told Devagun Devagun said if 
Tiwari did not give the amount you should not ask and adjust 
the said amount which he did Again, the questions and 
answers in the proceedings are recoidcd in English followed 
by the recording in Hindi On the next day of the enquiry 
viz 19-9-1972 Inc pioccedmgs were conducted by the Enquiry 
Officer when he ag un questioned Haidikar and recorded his 
answers The Enquiry Officer pm a question to Shn Kher, 
which is not very clear and in reply to that Shri Kher said 
“I have arranged for the piesence of Shn Devagun today 
He may be called as witness in the present case '* There- 
after, Devagun was called and questions were put to him by 
the Enquuy Officer 


The findings of the Enquiry Officer are typed on page 6 
of Ex F/l The findings are, however, not to be found in 
the original proceedings nook. Ex E/6 The finding of the 
Enquiry Officer was that Hardikar had “misappropriated a sum 
of Rs 14 60 fiom the postage account at the branch by mak- 
ing fictitious entries in the registered letters 


Shn G S Pnndev, EW 1, gave c\ldencc before me, 
evidence was most unsatisfactory Mr Pandey appeals to 
have constituted lurmelf as the prosecuting officer instead of 
acting as an impartial enquiry officci He perhaps thought 
that the charge* against Hardikar wcie proved and he had 
to earn out the directions of his supcnois with icgard to 
completion of the foimafity of holding the enquuy Even 
in miners like gi anting adjournments he admitted that he 
sought msimctu ns from his superior officers at Bhopal He 
stated 4 1 wis asked to find out the lelevant documents 
and to vciify them T was asked to get the relevant docu 
ments fiom thp Medical College Branch of the Bank for 
venfic iJion ’ Ht further stated that no documents were 
forwarded to him along with the letter asking him to con- 
duct the enquuy The letter of authority for cond lctmg 
the enquuy was also not pioduccd by him before the Tri 
bund Again he stated that only three documents were 
shown to HaidiKm dining the course of the enquuy \|7 
Ex F/VRegis ter F\ Y/\ and the charge sheet He fm 
ther admitted Pit on the lust date of the cnqmrv no docu 
ments were given to him and on the next date aKo no 
documents wer^ giver to him noi did he jsk foi them 
He further stikd th it he could not say uhcthei unv other 
documents besides thi nIoic«aid thicc documents wei~ ven 
fied by him He furthei stated th d neither he vended nor 
saw any other documents besides the three s ud documents 
during the entire period of the enquuy He also stated that 
4 there is no mention in the enquiry proceedings of any docu 
ments hiving been shown to Hardikar besides the charge- 
sheet He id muted that thcie was no vvilness for the 
Bank m the enquiry ind sud that witnesses weie not con 
sidered necessarv by him He stated that “Mr Kher was 
present in the comse of the enquuy I put questions to 

Mr khci and took his inswcrs during the comse of the 
enquuy He fuither st itcd that “nobody intimated to me 
that Mr Kher had been appointed as the representative of 
(he Bank It is not noted m the enquiry proceedings that 
Mi Kher was appointed as the repicsentative of the Bank 
foi piosecutmg Hardikar" 


It is surprising that although Mr. Kher was present 
throughout in the course of the enquuy proceedings, the 
inquiry Officer was unaware of the position that Mr Khei 
occupied even though he had questioned him and had sought 
his advice He stated in his cross-examination “On 
18 9 1972, 1 put a question marked E\ E/1 A to Mr Khci 
mil he gave a reply which is afso noted in the pioceedinps 
I did not act on the advice of Mr Khci in the enquiry 
pioccedmgs Mr Kher advised me that Hardikar should 
produce documentary evidence in support of his case and 
1 did not ask Hardikar to produce documentary evidence on 
the advice of Mj Kher 1 asked Hardikar on my own to 
pioduce documentary ewdcnct He fuither stated “pie- 
sence of Dev gnu was arranged by Mi Kher because 
Mr Dcvjjun was working at other branch Dcvgan 

wo^ a witness foi Hardikar Hardikar did not give a list 

of witnesses Hardikar did not give m writing to call 
Devgan ns his witness I do not icmember whether Hardikar 
oiully asked me for getting Devgan as his witness 
It was I who decided to call Devgan as Haidikar's witness 
Since Devgan was Haidikar s witness, thercfoic l 
did not give him an opportunity to cross-examine Devgan, 
but opportunily was open to Hardikar to cross-cxumme 
Devgan I did not nsk Haidikar to cioss examine 
Devgan I asked Mr Kher to put questions to Devgan It 
is not correct that dm mg examination of Sahu and Devgan 
Hardikar wrs kept out of the 100 m All the questions put 
to Devgan, Sahu and Hardikar were put by me and not by 
anv otic else 

The Enquiry Officer adopted a curious proccduie md 
instead of asking the Bank to prove its case against Hardikar, 
he appqjentlv asked Hiudikui to prove his innocence No 
one uppeued before him on behalf of the Bank to prove 
the chugcs levelled agunst Hardikai It is verv likely 
that the Fnq uny Officci assumed that Hardikar was guiltv 
and he pmceeded on that assumption Hardikar has stated 
that he was infoimed by the Union authorities who had dis- 
cussed the matter with the Bank authorities that no action 
would be taken ag unst Haidikar after he had sent the draft 
reply ds suggested by Shri Pathak The alleged letter of 
the Postmastei, Ex T/3 which said that the registered 
letters in question were not sent was not proved by any 
one before the Enquiry Officer and neither was it put to 
Hardikar Tt is not at all cleai as to how Devgan was pro- 
duced It would appear from the proceedings of the en 
quiry that Devgan was not Hnrdikars witness Dougin was 
examined by the Fnquny Officci himself but lie did not ask 
Hardikar to cross examine him since he thought that Devgan 
was Hardikar's own witness It is cleai that no opportunity 
was given to Haidikai to cross-examine Devgan The modes 
of writing m the pioccedmgs viz in English and Hindi are 
also not clear In any case, the Enquiry Officer m thinking 
that Hardikai had admitted his guilt was clearly in cnor 
U no stage Haidikar admitted that he had misappropriated 
anv amount Ml that he admitted was that he had dis- 
covered a shortage and he suspected that Shri Tiwari messen- 
gei was responsible for it and it was on the suggestion of 
Devgan that he adjusted the account to the extent of Rs If) 
and not fuithei According to the charge sheet the loss of 
stamps of unposted registcied letters was Rs 14 60 Hardikar 
only admitted th it he had discovered only a shortage of 
Rs IQ and he denied the remaining items No one on be 
half of the Bank came to prove that the aforesaid letters 
weie also not despatched The Postmaster did not come to 
prove his lettu F\ I A* and how it was received is also 
a matter of doubt Evidence was given bv Sri S R Patel 
who supnoitcd Haidikm s case that the replies sent by Hardi- 
kar to the Bank Wcie m accordance with the draft reply 
which Shu Pathak had sent to the local Secretary of the 
Banks muon Agun, the mannej in which the findings of 
the enquiry officer were typed in the pioceedings Ex E/1 
but are missing in the pioceedings book Fx F/6 throws 
doubt on the fairness of Mr Pandey Mr Kher who was 
seemingly icpresenting the Bank without the enquuy officer 
being awaic of it was moic or less a silent spcctatoi of the 
proceedings before the Enquuy officci But he gave him 
dnections and even orders on an occasion The enquuy 
officer docs not seem to hive acted independently He did 
not ask the Bank to prove its case against Hardikar He 
himself perfoimed nil the duties of the prosecuting officer 
and did not allow Haidikar to cioss examine Devgan nor did 
he have the documents nor were such documents nut to 
Hudikar All these facts taken separately and together show 
that the enquiry was illegal and was in disregard of the 
rules of natural mstice As mentioned above all that 
Hardikar admitted was that he had found a shortage and 



Sec. 3 (ii) J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 3745 


acting on the advice of Devgan he had made some adjust- 
ments in the Bank's register. 

Mr. Nalr for Hardikar argued that thcie \yas no evidence 
that these adjustments were fictitious entries and further that 
these letters had not been posted or had not been received. 

On the other hand, it was stated on behalf of the Bank that 
some of the postal numbers in the adjusted entries were the 
same numbers which had been entered earlier in the register. 

He further argued that the same numbers could be repeated 
in the correspondence. Tn any case, I agree with Mr. N air’s 
contention that it was not at all proved that Hardikar had 
embezzled any money. He may have acted foolishly in 
making some adjustments on the advice of Devgan. There 
appears to be force in the contention on behalf of Hardikar 
that very likely it was agreed between the Union’s repre- 
sentative and the Bank authorities that after Hardikar had 
sent a reply as suggested by the Union no further action ✓ 
would be taken. It may be that for some reasons the Bank 
authorities shifted their stand. In any case, I am not pre- 
pared to uphold the findings of the Enquiry Officer which 
are clearly unjust. It would have been in the fitness of 
things if the Bank had taken suitable departmental action 
against Hardikar for the irregularity committed by him in 
making adjustments. Warning or stoppage of increment for 
a period of six months might have been sufficient punishment. 

The Bank, however, preferred to act otherwise and decided 
to impose the extreme punishment. As I have mentioned, the 
proceedings before the Enquiry Officer were violative of the 
rules of natural justice and must be set aside. 

My award, therefore, is that the action of the manage- 
ment of State Bank of India, Jabalpur in discharging Shri V. 

D. Hardikar, Clerk-typist at their Medical College Branch, 
Jabalpur from service with effect from the 6th July 1973 
was not justified. He is entitled to be reinstated in service 
from 6-7-1973 and should be paid all the amounts due to 
him as salary and allowances etc. The workman V. D, 
Hardikar will get Rs. 200 as costs from the Bank. 

S, N. KATJU, Presiding Officer, 
[No, L. 12012/44/74/LRIIJ] 


fesft, 8 W, 1974 

VTo WTa 345 7. — SPT. 7RTTR *PT ft fT vA TTr^T® 

jpygpfr f mi % TPt T fa mu Tfrir ?r 

sftr ^ jfafrftrcr burn 

farpTR 1 ft ; 

sfrt Jiff. TFT ffiTR Vt * ftp 

WftffT ^ruiurft ft , 

TTT., m, qWtlw 1947 ( 1 947 ^1 14) 

iftum 7-^^sTm io qft iwn (i) ^ (^r) ircr srar^r 

t?rfwmfr jrr ; huff sjWtfrr* stFerf 1 ^ 

Tfeff Tufa TpTTflTff TjfaFrft 3ft 5TRo rfnT ffR 

fijTTU if ^PTT *cfF f^TT Ft TTT sfttfrftTF 

vfmm qff ?nrcf*r<fa?r * P=rr EtTHtt iR-ft ft i 

TTf fa wru tffrqrr % ^ r 4t to >0 R^stt, 

firfipF, Ttiw ynwT ft 'wfiflM ^Ftfpr i^r sr'F ifrr T wtjfa* 
sfmfir t^F FH*rrf ^rpfrfiTT | 7 ufa 

fet SEpTH Fr ^f | 7 

[tfo TT^r— 12012/10/7 4—UTT 0 tfRo III] 
tiro *fpft«nwr, itf ?rf^r^ 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th November, 1974 

S.O. 3457. — Wheicas the Central Government is of opinion 
that an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to the Central Bank of India and their workman 
in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desir- 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A, and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
of which Shri H. R. Sodhi shall be the Presiding Officer, 
with headquarters at Chandigarh and refers the said dispute 
for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the action of the management of Central Bank 
of India in denying promotion to Shri K, K. Trikha, 
Clerk, Rohtak Branch, under the All India Service 
and under State Service is justified 7 If not, to 
what relief is he entitled 7 

[No. L- 120 12 /1 0 /74-LR.liIl 


New Delhi, the 18th December, 1974 

5.O. 3458.— In puisuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 r 14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal Rajasthan, Jaipur in the indus- 
trial dispute between the employers in relation to the emplo- 
yers of Messrs. Duduwala & Company (Private) Limited, 
Mica Mine Owners, Bhilwara and their workmen, which was 
received bv the Central Government on the 13th December, 
1974. 


C£N J R \L GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 
RAJASTHAN, TAIPUR 


Ref: — Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of I abour 
& Employment), New Delhi Order No. 24/62/69- 
LRIV, dated 12th November, 1969. 

In the Mallei of an Industiial DispuLC, 

BETWEEN 

The Employers Messrs. Duduwala L Co. (Private) 
Limited, Mica Mine Owncis, Bhilw’ara, 

AND 

Their wojkman represented by the Khan Mazdoor 
Congress, Bhilwara. 

APPEARANCES : 

For the Company.— 

For the Confess — Shri Paramanand Tripathu 

Date of Award — 4th November, 1974. 

AAV \RD 

The Central Government has made the following reference 
to this Tribunal for adjudication — 

L Whether the resignation tendred by Shri Hiralab Sorter, 
Toonka Mine on the 6th June, 1969 was voluntary 
and its acceptance by Messrs. Duduwala and Com- 
pany, Mica Mine Owners, Bhilwara, was bonafide? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled 7” 


116 Cr 1/74 — 9 



3746 


THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part {I 


The statement of claim has been filed on behalf of Khan 
Mazdoor Congress, Bhilwara. It is alleged In the Statement 
of claim that Shri Hiralal was appointed as Head Sorter 
in the Dudmvala & Company* Mica Mines Owners* Bhil- 
wara in 1964, The Manager Shri Kishan Lai issued a charge- 
sheet for theft but no enquiry was held. He was threatened 
by the Manager from time to time that the matter will he 
reported to the Police if he did not leave the service. Afraid 
of this action on the part of the management Shri Hiralal 
tendered his resignation on 6th June, 1969. Subsequently 
he reported the matter to the Union that the management 
had obtained his resignation under duress and threat. The 
Union took up the matter with the Conciliation Officer and 
on the failure report of the Conciliation Officer, the Central 
Government has made this reference. 

In reply on behalf of the management it is denied that 
the resignation was obtained under duress and threat. It is 
alleged that It was tendered voluntarily. 

Evidence of both the parties was recorded. The work- 
man produced two other witnesses Hiralal s/o Laluram and 
Nandram besides himself, but they do not say that the re- 
signation was written in their presence and under threat. 
There is the statement of the workman alone and he has 
stated that hia signatures were obtained on the threat that 
the matter will be reported to the Police, 

I have considered this evidence and' find that the fact that 
the signatures were obtained under duress or threat is not 
proved. The other witness produced by the workman do 
not help him, On the sole evidence of the workman I am 
not prepared to hold that the resignation was obtained by 
force. The contention of the workman is, therefore, re- 
fected and the reference is answered accordingly. The award 
be sent to the Central Government for publication. 

U. N. MATHUR, Presiding Officer 
[No. 24/12 /69-LR.I V] 


S-O. 3459. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal Jabalpur in the industrial dispute 
hetwen the employers in relation to the management of 
Rajasthan Atomic Power Project, Post Office, Anushakti, Via- 
Kota and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 7th December, 1974, 

CENTRA!. GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
CUM LABOUR COURT JABALPUR 


“Whether the action of the management of Rajasthan 
* Atomic Power Project, Post Office Anushakti, Via 
Kota in giving a notice of change dated 20th March, 
1973 under section 9A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, in so far as payment of overtime allow- 
ance to Staff Car Driver is concerned,^ justified? 
If not, to what relief are they entitled?” 

The dispute is between the Staff Car Drivers of the Rajas- 
than Atomic Power Project, hereinafter called the Project, 
and the management of the Project. It is one of the Pro- 
jects under the Power Projects Engineering Division of the 
Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India. The 
aforesaid Department is engaged in the development, control 
and use of atomic energy for the welfare of the people of 
India and for peaceful purposes and for matters connected 
therewith in terms of the Atomic Energy Act (33 of 1962). 

The Rajasthan Anushakti Pariyojna Karamchari Sangh, 
which is a recognised Union of the employees of the Pro- 
ject, hereinafter called ‘the Union’, had raised a dispute re- 
garding payment of overtime allowance to drivers at the 
rates paid to other employees of the project. Prior to 
1-8-1971 the drivers were being paid overtime allowance in 
accordance with the Staff Car Rules. After negotiations* a 
conciliation settlement was signed before the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner (Central), Kota on 17-11-1971 which 
provided for payment of overtime allowance to Motor Vehi- 
cle Drivers and Bus Helpers of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of the Motor Transport Workers Act, 
1961. 

The parties did not lead any oral evidence. Their learned 
representatives argued before me and also filed written ar- 
guments. 

It has been contended on behalf of the Project that after 
signing the aforesaid settlement, it was discovered that the 
management of the Project was under a mistaken belief that 
the Staff Car Drivers were covered by the provisions of the 
Motor Transpoit Workers Act. When it was found that 
the Staff Car Drivers did not come within the meaning of 
Section 2(g) of the Motor Transport Workers Act. the 
management of the Project gave a notice under section 19(2) 
of the I.D. Act for termination of the aforesaid settlement 
dated 17-11-1971 on 12/13-12-1972 in so far as the staff 
car drivers were concerned. The aforesaid notice expired 
on 12-2-1973. For enforcing the said change in the settle- 
ment dated 17-11-1971, the management of the Project gave 
another notice under section 9A of the I.D. Act on 20-3-1973 
to the Union. It was stated in the aforesaid notice that 
with effect from 12-4-1973 the staff car drivers shall be 
entitled to overtime allowance as admissible to them under 
the Stall Car Rules and not under the Motor Transport 
Workers Act, 1961. Thus a dispute was raised between the 
management of the Project and the Union and the parties 
agreed for a joint reference of the dispute for adjudication 
under section 10(2) of the I.D. Act. 


Case No. CGIT/LC(R) (5) of 1973 

(Notification No. L-2901 1/28/73-LR. IV, dated 19th 
April, 1973). 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of Rajasthan 
Atomic Power Project, Post Office Anushakti, Via 
Kota and their workmen, represented by Rajasthan 
Anushakti Pariyojna Karamchari Sangh, P.O. Rawath- 
bhatta, via Kota. 


It has been contended on behalf of the workmen that 
the management of the Pioject now wants to curtail the 
overtime allowance of only Light Vehicle Drivers while 
other drivers and staff will continue to get overtime allow- 
ance at enhanced rates and will be covered by the provisions 
of Motor Transport Workers Act and this amounts to wrong- 
ful discrimination between two sets of drivers and thus the 
management of the Project is not justified in denying the 
overtime allowance to few light vehicle drivers under the 
Motor Transport Workers Act at enhanced rates. 


APPEARANCES : 

For the workmen— Shri G. D. Mehta. 

For the management. — Shri P. C. Jain. 

INDUSTRY : Atomic Power Project DISTRICT : Kota 

(Rajasthan) 


AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10(2) of the Industrie 
Disputes Act, 1947, hereinafter called ‘the Act\ 1 he ques 
tion referred to this Tribunal for its adjudication as se 
out in the schedule to the reference is - 


u nas been contended on behalf of the management of 
the Project that it maintains a fleet of vehicles including 
staff cars, buses, trucks and goods carriers and there are 
two categories of drivers having entirely different duties and 
pay scales. Heavy vehicle drivers drive heavy vehicles viz 
o™ and buses only and their r «vised scale of pay is 
Rs. 320-— 400. The other categoiy of drivers is for driving 
fight vehicles and they are commonly known as light vehicle 
drivers. They drive light vehicles, like staff cars, jeeps 
station wagons, ambulance and similar light vehicles and 

2° ht 4£' Thdr revised scale of pay is 

Rs 260 — 350. The Project has contended that the afore* 
said two categories of drivers have different duties and 

scales of pav and, therefore, the classification on which it is 
founded is based on it illegible differentia which distinguish- 
es persons grouped together from others and ther# is a 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 


3747 


'y 

-rational nexus between the classification. Since heavy vehi- 
cle drivers are not similarly situated* there is no question 
of infringement of right oi equality as has been contended 
by the Union. 

It has been further contended that light vehicle drivers 
are not governed by the Motor Transport Workers Act and 
are governed by the Staff Car Rules as framed by the Presi- 
dent under the Rule making power confer] cd under Article 
309 of the Constitution of India. The other category of 
heavy vehicle drivers and bus helpers would continue to 
be governed by the Motor Transport Workers Act for pur- 
poses of overtime allowance. 

In its rejoinder, the Union contended that there was not 
much distinction in the work of the staff car drivers and the 
heavy vehicle drivers because the former were very often 
put on heavy vehicles and made to drive them. This alle- 
gation was made, as mentioned above, in the rejoinder and 
not in the written statement. The management of the Pioject 
in its reply to the written statement of the Union had cate- 
gorically contended that theie were two sets of drivers — one 
for staff cars and light vehicles and the other for heavy vehicles. 
There is no evidence on the record to substantiate the con- 
tention raised on behalf of the workmen that the staff car 
drivers were also put on duty for driving heavy vehicles. 
Tf that is so, then it will be open to the staff car drivers to 
claim overtime allowance for the period when they work 
as such on the rates as admissible to the heavy vehicle drivers. 

It cannot be said that the staff car drivers come within 
the meaning of section 2(g) of the Motor Transport Work- 
ers Act. There is nothing on the record to indicate that 
the staff cars of the Project carry on any activity as private 
carriers. The Project could only be a "motor transport 
undertaking” in so far as it carries on the activity of pri- 
vate carrier and not otherwise. As mentioned above, the 
user of the staff cars of the Project has nothing to do with 
the activity of private carriers. In Madhya Pradesh Electri- 
city Board v. The State of Madhya Pradesh and others 
(A.LR. 1972-M.P. 188), it was observed : — 

"No doubt, the petitioner Board is a private carrier; but 
it is not only a private carrier. It has other busi- 
ness activities which are unconnected with its acti- 
vity as a private carrier. Consequently, it can- 
not be equated with a private carrier for all pur- 
poses, In Clause (g) of Section 2 of the Act, it is 
a private carrier which has been included within 
the definition of ‘motor transport undertaking 
Consequent^, it would be quite unjustified to 
equate ‘motor transport undertaking’ with the peti- 
tioner Board because It also carries on the activi- 
ty of a private carrier an dis, therefore, a private 
carrier within the meaning of the Motor vehicles 
Act. The petitioner Board would be a ‘motor 
transport undertaking’ only, in so far as it carries 
on the activity of a private carrier, in other words, 
in relation to its activity as a private carrier. 

In other words, the petitioner Board qua 

private carrier would require registration and conse- 
quently for this purpose it shall have to declare 
under the Act and the Rules only the ‘goods vehi- 
cles’ owned by it and which it uses as a private 
carrier. Its staff cars, jeeps, etc., which have no 
relation with its activity as a private carrier, shall 
not have to be so declared”. 

Thus, there is force in the contention of the Project that 
it had wrongly included the staff car drivers in the settle- 
ment dated 17-1-1971 and it was justified in terminating the 
provision of the settlement in so far as it concerned the 
staff car drivers. 

The learned representative of the workmen argued that 
while the Project is paying overtime allowance at enhanced 
rates to several categories of Its employees, It Is unfair and 
discriminatory that it should refuse to do so only in case 
of staff car drivers, It may be that the management of the 
Project Is paying overtime allowance at higher rales to 
certain categories of its staff, but that by itself is no ground 
for compelling It to do so in the case of staff car drivers 
as well. The latter are being paid overtime allowance at 
the rate fixed for the staff car drivers. 

Taking all the circumstances into consideration, mv ans- 
wer to the reference is in the affirmative and the staff car 


drivers of the Project are not entitled to any relief. I make 
my award accordingly. The parties will bear their own 
costs, 

30-11-74 S. N, KATJU, Presiding Officer. 

[No. L-29Q11/28/73-LR.IV] 
R. KUNJITHAPADAM, Under Secy. 


13ftTOTT ( 1974 

mo mo 346 0.— Wrr tout ^ to! 

TT fr rifar f^fT ^ Iff «TT, tfWtPPF faTOf 

1947 ( 1947 m 14) TOT 2 % (&) % 

vm (YI) % TOgpr % * *FJTOT 

TOUT % ^ tfOT mo Wo 1577, (Vita 

7 3JjT, 19 74) TOT % STtfrir J'ET 5TTOT % ftpj 

^fPr Tt to mUiPph % $ frn 22 ^r, 1974 

^5 . h % Ri u riVF vd4*rb[) '■flfan I qT ; 

sftT *RT , fcrfPT TOUT TPT ^ *T TOT 

H 14 I ^ fir % fdR TOTT XT^ftJFT ^ ; 

to, tur, iftiflP iy farrc srfftPrro, 1947 (1947 *t 14 ) 

^ TOT 2 % (ff) 3» (VI) % TOT 3TCT1 

wfUrTf *FT SpfPT ^TrT jrr f %rg)TT UT^TT ^ci^aKi 'STb 

to % spfripr fun, 22 ftrorr, 1974 ft 0: 

ffpr ^ WTfafir ^ <.cf) ^ 1 

[<6To 1025/25/ 7 4-^«TO;o~I] 

New Delhi, the 13th December, 1974 

S.O. 3460 * — Whereas, the Central Government, being satis- 
fied that the public interest so required had declared by a 
notification made in pursuance of the provisions of the proviso 
to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), (being the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.O. 
1577 dated the 7th June, 1974) the industry for the supply of 
milk under the Delhi Milk Scheme to be a public utility service 
for the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months 
from the 22nd June, 1974; 

Afld whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that the 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby declares the said industry to be a public utility 
service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period 
of six months from the 22nd December, 1974. 

[F. No. S.U025/25/74-LR.I*] 
irfftFTt, 1 6 ftwT, 1974 

mo mo 3461. — SfTT xrfaf^FT, 1952 (l952 m 35) 

Tt TOT 5 Tt ^TTOT (i) TOT STXfT irffaif TT ^ ftr 

TOUT RTOTTT fffTfT Tt TO - fffrtSTO’ 

$ UUfiT W ffffhTT % ¥T ^ fiT’TW TO0=fT % I 

[HVTMJ- 1 2 0 2 5/ 3/ 7 3-^ff-I] 

New Delhi, the 16th December, 1974 

S.O. 3461." — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 05 of 1952), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Dr. B. N. Mittal 
as Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector of 
Mines. 


[No. A. 12025/3 /73-MI] 



3748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/P AUSA 7, 1896 


[Part II — 


TO 0 W* 346 7, — 3TR srfftfftTO; 19 52 tit UPT 5 TT- 
HTO ( l ) 7^1 TOFT wfftR> TO TOR TOR jfL ftnfR WF 
R b* ftr* to tjth t ■trcfr^T TOR 

fVbiFr ft to ft fTOw toR ^ i 

[toto rftt rf- 2901 1 / 8/7 4-to-I] 

'ftO. 3462, In exercise ot the poweis conferred by sub- 
section (1) of section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), 
the. Ccntial Government hereby appoints Shii K C 
Choudhnry ns Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief 
Inspector of Mines 

[No S 29013/8/74 MIJ 
f*mt, 17 [TOML 1974 

tot° w° 3463 . — to ftTfRRTrorft, Rrftqr 

hr ftftrfcr ft ft*rr *Tftfiro to tflRPi* fronr *rfqfftTOT, 1947 

( 1947 TOT 14) R TOTT 2 ft OR (&) ft W (6) ft TOTOft 

ft *FfTror ft, toto rttoit ft to totto ftt srfft^TOTT toto 
irro^ro i576,^rfhgr 7 ^r, 1974 tott rtot ftf tot r 

2 ft <*r (vs) iim 'ifXmfad Sftrorft torrV anrr top* 
^rr t^ ftTOrrrft otR ftt, nrfufftro ft TOiWft ft ftpr 2 9 
^r, 1974 ft w mrr tit iTORfa ft farj ^roibft ftro fttfro 
faro w to ; 

*ftr to ft^rfk *tfftt ftt tpt $ far Sr ^ *rmr- 

*rfft TOT ftt sftr TOTOirfft ft fippr sr^RT RRT jtffSrFT $ , 

tn, TO, ifltftpw f™ trfkPRTT, 1947 ( 1947 TT 1 4 ) 
ft TOTT 2 ft TO (*) ft W (6) % TOF^/T ffTTT TOT?T WpFfftt 
TO 5RR TOft Jtr ftrfjq ttt^TIT 'dTH 'dilTl ftt dltl nfy PlMH 
ft spfupfr % ftn? 29 fcflWK, 1947 ft ^ TOT ftt *ftT TOTO- 

*fv ft Pr ftto srobit ?tarr tftftrar TObt | 1 

[no TTTTo 1 1025/24/74-t^ro *TTT° l] 

TO° tostotto, tot srfro 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 

S.O. 3463. —Whereas, the Central Government having been 
satisfied that the public interest so required had, in pursuance 
of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 
2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). de- 
clared by the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No SO, 1576 dated the 7th June, 1974, 
the banking industry earned on by a banking company as 
defined in clause (bb) of section 2 of the said Act, to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act, for a 
period of six months from the 29th June, 1974 , 

And whereas, the Cential Government is of opinion that 
public interest requires the extension of the said period by a 
further period of six months, 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of tho said Act, for a further 
period of six months from the 29th December, 1974 

[F No S 11025/24/74-LRI] 
S S S AHA SR AN A MAN, Under Secy 

1 1 tenure, 1974 

TO° tfTo 3404. — JR ft^R FTTOT TO TOTTHR $T TOT £ fa 
TOFT PTTIT ft TfeT $fbr W 1V+<W Wf^T % %TTtfWT 

arfwr, % ’Rfrrfrrfr Tt, afrm sflfqtoT, 

1948 (i 948 m 34 ) % sr^froRf Wr 

snjfWT f 1 


5R, to, wt trfirpRR mn 90 em vif^fr 
toFt jtt tfrr c to %frr jrrbr totto 

to *fR tm tr ftror) ^ totp ^to ^ro ^ 4^4 

4 TOR, 1 97 J % ^ TOTTO, TR^T 

PlTO & 'RHT^ WT I'fTO ^RTOTT W?[ WT 

*rftrPm 5 r tor ^25 toft, 1974 b 24 tor, 1975 m , 
f^rTO it? fro qNfTO to bk urbb 4r fTO 

^ ^fr ^ 1 

[^ITW dWt^T-380l4(4 4)/7J-TOo TO|o] 

New Delhi, the 11th December, 1974 

S.O. 3464— Whereas the Central Government is satisfied 
that the employees of the Meteorological Workshop, Poona 
belonging to the Government of India m the Ministry of 
Tourism and Civil Aviation arc otherwise in receipt of bene- 
fits substantially similar to the benefits provided under the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948). 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Em- 
ployment) No, SO. 2434, dated the 9th August, 1973 the 
Central Government, after consultation with the Employees’ 
State Insurance Corporation, hereby exempts the above men- 
tioned factory from the operation of the said Act for a 
further period of one year with effect from the 25th August, 
1974 upto and inclusive of the 24th August, 1975, 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 

It has become necessary to give retrospective effect to the 
exemption in this case, as the request for renewal of exemp- 
tion was leceived only in August, 1974 and the processing 
of the application took time The factory has, however, 
been found to the eligible for exemption with effect from 
25th August, 1974 

[F No. 5-38014(44) /73-HI] 
VTo Wo 34 65, — TO TITOK W TOTETH TOT $ far TOTO 

TOTR *fr TOFT TORT TOTOR, faPTT ($T*T TTTO) $ 

Tt, *fRRTft TTTO sfbTT TlfublTO, 1948 (l948TO3 4) % TOfbT 
srofTO srjfrorat tor snjfaqpJ tott f i 

TO , TO, TOT *rfbfTOT qft ETTTT 9 0 XKT TOTT Wfwft TT 
TObT JF toLt TOR TOFTIT $ TO TOTTO iqfq^RTO 

OTTT 2199 nltW 19 TOR, 1974 % TR ^ ^FjfpT TOTO< 

TTjWifr Tiro it to Pitot ft tot toV *Rft % tot 

TOj srfuPiTOr % toto ft 6 ^rrf, 1974 ft 5 ^j[TOf 7 1975 
tot, frorft to fYr iff Ffrofro ^ toPt fftq 

^ ftsft ^ 1 


tottofw toft 


^f*TT ^ ^TTifflft Tt TOT^T * TTTO ^TO 

Pttot % TOTfbbrTT frorTfror tor, 1974 ft $ 

tor toto ft wz tit srvrrr ttrtott 

TOT| I TOTTfft, W Tfwft tit 0 <yTT$ 1974 ft tftr TOft 
^TTft ^ brr TRT TPTT TOT | I 

[TO° ^0 tRo-38017( 7)/74-rRTo W^o] 
ifo TOfo fTSTOjfft, TOT 


s.U. J405.— Whereas the Central Government is satisfied 
that the employees of the Government of India Press Korat- 
ty, Trichur District (Kerala State) belonging to the Gov- 
ernment of India arc otherwise in receipt of benefits sub- 
stantially similar to the benefits provided und<er the Em- 
ployees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour No. SO. 2199, dated the 19th August, 1974 the 
Central Government after consultation with the Employees’ 



Sec. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAESA 7, 1896 3749 


Sffitc Insurance Corporation, hereby exempts the above- 
mentioned tactory from the operation of the said Act for 
a further period of one year with elfect from the 6th July, 
1974 upio and inclusive of the 5th July, 1975. 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
It has become ncecssaiy to give retrospective effect to the 
exemption in this case, as the formal recommendation of 
the D,G , E S.l C. for the grant of exemption to the factory 
was received only in August, 1974. However, the factory 
has been found to be eligible for further exemption w.e.f. 
6th July, 1974. 

[F. No. S-38017(7) /74-HI] 
Xf 1 1974 

mo iRTo 34 66*— TX: HWIt ft TR 

iftqT TfapEET, 1948 ( 1 948 m 34) qft STITT 10 *ft 3TmTr jj 

(l) % ShTHTT if 3T° WT? fqR (PfftWT) 

ftn Ti^fftivTP'FT, Tf [ft <7 41, q>T BTo ifo ftfo i 
% PTFT qT TO ETTCT % TpTT fftfaffT SpJPWT TPCTC 

•imrnfed Jr ; 

*PT:, m, TO qft 3TO 10 * U^K«1 ft 

tri T R mm TOHT % IjjTyr TtTOT eft?: ftTTTT 

(srr *fh; xripnx fftrpT) qft sTPtnjror fto qrro *rro 3680ffrfPff 
21 1971 4" xftx srrft ftrtmr q>xtft 

— 

"mrcftf" to ft ftfft nr (2) 

TOft 4ft srlftfe % pm qx fmPrfw stftfe xsft ^nprt, 

: — 

¥to wxT^mx 
3T fft^W (firfTOTT) 

[qq-o #ot^-16012(8)/74-t^o info] 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1974 


1974 ft 25 Wjrr, 1975 fftrft ft 7 ! ftt hO-hP^ g 

qft qft sftx mftr % Ptit ^ fttff ft 1 

Tfo qrmw fft ^rfr *»xft ft *r*r tot, 

X*r ^ qft ijcHtft tttt ft hp; mmj ?t mrr £ i ?mPr, 
mj t^tt^rt ferr strt, i fa fftx qfxfarfftiff ft th ^ jr<ron : jhpt 
ft gqfttftwrf fth qqwPTT tnfft ftt ^ % ftp? 

m 1 1 

[RTTo-380 17 / 8 / 73-^0 trr<°] 

S.O. 3467. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sec- 
tion 87 of the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 
1948) and in continuation of the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.O, 333, dated 
the 23 rd January, 1974, the Central Government hereby ex- 
empts the National Coal Development Corporation Limited 
Press, Ranchi, from the operation of the said Act for a fur- 
ther period of one year with effect from the 26th October, 
1974 upto and inclusive of the 25th October, 1975. 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 

It has become necessary to give retrospective effect to the 
exemption in this case, as the processing of the proposal for 
exemption took time. However, it is certified that the con- 
ditions under which exemption was initially granted still 
persist and the factory continues to be eligible for exemption. 

[S-38017/8/73-HIJ 

VTO *TTo 3468 — Tm ftriTT SffafdW, 1948 ( 1948 
m 3 4) qft HTTT 87 IRT 5TPT wBwff *T 5pT>T JTj ifr? 

mm Aron; % xf^nx ^ftx (w <ftx Aron: 

Pnrw) q?r ?fo mo <rro 64 mrter 20 1973 

% w nx^ix mm qter iftretr 

PqifllU l H Tl Hq , fTFCT ^ qft TO wTHTf^Tn ^ JT^T h 22 ^Xt, 

197 5 21 WA 1976 W, fxx 

^ ^ | 

[^o ir^-38017( 6)/ 73-^To^rfo] 


S.O. 3466. — Whereas Ihe Central Government has, in pur- 
suance of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) nominated Dr. Sharad 
Kumar, Deputy Director General ^Medical), Directorate Gene- 
ral of Health Services, New Delhi as a member of the Medi- 
cal Benefit Council constituted under the said section, in the 
place of Dr, J.C. Sachdev; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10 of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilita- 
tion (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O, 3680 
dated the 21st August, 1971, namely : — 

In the said notification, under the heading ‘Members* for the 
entry against item (2), the following entry shall bo substituted, 
namely : — 

“Dr. Sharad Kumar, Deputy Director General (Medical), 
Directorate General of Health Services, 

New Delhi,” 

[No, U. 16012/8/74-HI] 

TToWTo 3467.— qrthrrf rpnr ^\m STfalWT, 1948 (l948 
m 34 ) qft tnrr 87 stxt sixt wfwff m anN 
mm ?rxqnx ^ ^rinrn; *flx 'jxVhr mum (*nr *ftx An- 
mx fr r mq) ^rfu-^rr wtt m° »dro 333 23 TOrxf, 

1974 % tx 4r qxqrix (^t) qftcr qrrff- 

PtPhS* qft to inrftrfTOff ^ sttot 6" 26 


S.O. 3468 —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
87 of the Employees 1 State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) 
and in continuation of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labom and Employment) No. S.O. 64 dated the 
26th December, 1973 the Central Government hereby exempts 
The Bharat Heavy Plates and Vessels Limited, Visakhapat- 
nam, Andhra Pradesh, from the operation of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 
22nd January, 1975 upto and inclusive of the 21st January, 
1976. 

[S-3 801 7(6) /73-HXJ 

m<> w* 3469 . — xrnr f\m sjfhfwr, 1948 (i 948 
m 34 ) qft tiTxr 1 4ft toixt ( 3 ) aixnpm v i Pvrt m snftq 
mmrx m^jtxr 29 fw^rx, 1974 qft ^ 

^ xx ft ta Tx?ft $, fwqft to frfftPTTT tm 4 (rnxr 
44 ftftf 45 % fftnr ftt t^t ^ sr^r *ft tt ^qft ?) ftk 
vstwx 5 ftk 6 (m?r 76 qft tt-tixt ( 1) xfrxmrj 77,70,79 
tftr 8i ^ fmrFT Tt qxft qft xt 5) ^ tm 


ni^ fwf 


Mwft Tryrr 

XI^TTTT [ftg lfT-3 80 1 3/ 8/7 4-^°^*] 

€\° i ptx 



3750 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 

New Delhi, the 23rd December, 1974. 


S.O, 3469. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Subjec- 
tion (3) of Section 1 of the Employees 1 State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby appoints 
the 29th December, 1974 as the date on which the provisions 
of Chapter IV (except section 44 ahd 45 which have already 
been brought into force) and Chapters V and VI (except Sub- 
section (1) of Section 76 and Sections 77, 78, 79 and 81 which 
have already been brought into force) of the said Act shall 
come into force in the following area in the State of Karna- 
taka, namely:— 


Area Hobli Taluk District 


Metagally Kasuba Mssore Mysore 

Revenue 

Village. 


[No. S-38013/8 /74-HI] 
T. S. KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 

*T< fwft, 12^**, 1974 

m°mo 3470. — w: toftotfRUT ^ | 

tor 3764-Trsfiftr t Pr, fWrrtwT* 

n i m *r* ?r tFTO ftflffarcr rfwr rt 

wrcr rnprcr 5 ^ trqr % fv ftftr titx 

fHfa 1952 ( 1952 VT 19) ti Rim 

* 1 %; 

mir, xrcr, *rfaftom tit firm 1 *tort ( 4 ) 

sntrt] mfPr qfmt jtj fn?rnT jrftrftoRT 

WI41 *1 tTP[ VTtfV t I 

irftnjmr 1973 % titor * shut for vt snjrr gf rmift 

«niv<f) 1 

[tfo 35019 (l75)/74-'ft^o2(i)] 


New Delhi, the 12th December, 1974 

S.O. 3470. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Domestic 
Gas Private Limited, 3764 Rashtrapathi Road, Secundera- 
bad have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of April, 1973 

[No. S. 35019(175) /74-PF. II(i)] 


WTTo WTo 3471. — WIT, ftfa titX 

q TFT ftrfa urufaUH, 1952 (l952 *T 19) tit ART 6 
wr 5j^r vrfvRfr xrr sptPt ^^4 farm - 

if 1 *rtor, 1973 ft torcf 

ft r mrfe fa ftfrr , 3764 -Trcprfa frx, fmmmrT Rim 
wh t TRyr ti snfr mfi % fcrq «TOfV $ 1 

[^0 tj ^ 0 35019(175)74^0 11 (ii)] 


S.O. 3471. — In exercise of the power* conferred by Ttic 
fuel proviso to *«ction 6 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Cen- 
tral Government, after making necessary enquiry into the 
matter, hereby specifies with effect from 1st day of April, 
1973 the establishment known as Messrs Domestic Gas Pri- 
vate Limited, 3764 Rashtrapathi Road, Secunderabad for 
the purposes of the said proviso. 


[No. S. 35019(175)/74-PF. II(ii)] 

*To *To 3472. — im: wrl ^ ^RTT totf 

Wm TRtTf HT?T TT^t (t^o tjo TT^o) qfe X1W 6 

ttto Rrm if mwz ftorPRP frtr f^rrfWf wjtfwr 
*t w vx Riprrr gt qf | fa ^mr fafa iftr qf*fnr 

ftrftr 1932 ( 1 9 5 2 ■rr 19 ) * wn ^ Rim 

tit far itt^ ^if^u ; 

UTtT 1 qff OTg fC T (4) XTTT 
Spt^T vi frt)9l ^Tf tfifpr iRfbl ^TVTT \JTfT ^ 

Rrrnr xrt ?tpj ^ 1 

1074 ^ sr^r ff wtit 

WTTFftl 

[Rot^o-350l9(l93)/74-^t^ 2] 


S.O. 3472.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employee* 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Seth Gir- 
dharilal Damodardas Rathi (H.U.F.) Post Box No. 6, Rai- 
chur have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of June, 1974. 

[No. S. 35019(198) /74-PF- II] 


vto WTO 3473.— TO ttwwwnxtit JTtftff ^ttTT | ft 
fcrtf rrfrx 29, *TFTtf 

uKhrft, frir wtt (f^), ^f # fmti 17, 

vXz tIt, vWk-23 f^pr 'tttit mm tit m 

Rim § f fr q Wtv ti k tit 4giwr w m tt 

t ^ t ft! wtimft f¥& tit* sto fafa 

1952 ( 1952 TT 19) % ^Wtf Rim 4?) 

^ TTf^u; 

%w f STTT 1 ^WTTT ( 4) 5TTT 

xrrrr iafwff ^ snfrir irot gu ti 

m s*im hp[ ^Rfr 1 1 

^ 1974 ti\ ^FTTft ti im fiR Vt 5PJTI gt IPRft 

irnpft i 


[^oT^ o -350l8( 60)/74 J fT^° 2] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


3751 


Sec;. 3 (ii)] 

= t f™ 


S.O. 3473. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Aries 
A pro-Vct Industries (Private) Limited, 29, Aghadi Indus- 
trial Estate, Marol Maroshi Road, Andheri (East) Bombay, 
including its branch at 17, Platform Road, Bangalore-23, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees' Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of January, 1974. 

[No. S, 350 18/60/ 74 /PF-II] 


*To»n° 3474- — TO Mfa UTOR Uf M T fr fr 

uttu fTOfr 4/2 MnV TO, uMfa* 

5 2 TOF fro A ^WZ MWf M 

V* TO qR iff *r? % fa TOfflft ufro Mu v\x jttv 

TOT Mb tffuMm, 1 952 ( 1952 TT 19) ^JTF 

r<rm M : 

Hd', cw, d rti urn 1 ■nunr ( 4 ) ym 

vrTOft ft Mfir ju MW hwt ^tf ^ 

'3TF> FTFFT Ft T TUt ^ I 

ufu^ro 1973 tfV ^ im fW ^ funfr 

wrrpift 1 

[ffo rpro 3 5 0 1 9 ( 162)/744toTT^0 2 (i)] 


S.O. 3474. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs WM.I, South Pri- 
vate Limited 4/2 Millers Road, Bangalore-52 have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made ap- 
plicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said 
establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force 
on the first day of June, 1973. 

[No. S. 3J0i9(162)/74-PF, II(i)l 


wto 3475 . — F ^Hifl ufro Mu uW fro Mu 
ufuMru, 1952 (1952 ft 19) fV urn 6 % u«ru im 
u*rr stMe ft uTO Mr fu MW tttftt m Mnr A tof 
TO ft % q'^pj Mo Mu£i 4/ 2 

fasra ftf, vtttVt— 5 2 tof ttor Ft 1-6-1973 ft 3 tfttof 

snWM % M WWfw fto) % 1 

[u* CRfo 35019( 1 62)/74- t fforr^0 2 ( 11 )] 


S.O. 3475, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to seotion 6 of the Employees Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the 


Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into 
the matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 1st day of 
June, 1973 the establishment known as Messrs W.M.I South 
Private Limited 4/2 Millers Road, Bangalore-52 for the 
purposes of the said proviso, 

[No. S. 35019(162) /74-PF. II(ii)) 


FT^ 3476 . — TO MW tHFK Ft Uf sWW $ fa 

ffTOr t* ftu uWrjfV, fv i^r ftv, niU^r mro rum 
fWftFF rfrr fjWtFWt ft i ; u to tt ?fr 

fff $ fa ufro Mu M fsm fffa qffrfWm, 

1952 (1952 FT 1 9 ) ^ 3WU 3TF F*TFR Ft fan TO 

MfF ; 

TO, TO ^TF ufufTOr qft UTTT 1 iffy ^TUTTT (4) OTTT 
UTfT fTpRRf FT UTO ^ fp MtU HTVH ^TF MMu 

% ^ ^ 1 

^ 1972 ^ VT ST^^T TOft 

1 

ffffo 35018( S2)/74-'fTo^o HJ 


S.O. 3476.*— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Indian Red 
Cross Society, Red Cross Road, Sholapur have agreed that 
the provisions ot the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirtieth day of June, 1972, 

[No, S. 35018(52)/74-PF. II] 


vrr ^ 3477 . — to MUi nrfrn; ^ Mffi Mi I 

206-q;-^L nro, tfmx 

uM-13 ftot A htoj fmfUro M 
tfw vu to 77 u?pru 5 T nf i fa TiWifr 'tMjt Mu M 

5?^ 7«IR ufufTOT 1952 (l952 fU 19) ^ ^TTO^TF 

fatj TO ; 

TO, UU, TTF ufufTOU UTTT 1 ^TUTTT (4) fTTT 

vrfroft *rr tTO fTO 5 ^ MUi uwtt ^ 

FTOU WIRT HPX MV t 1 

ufufF'UT 1973 faror ♦ tMUtv Ito w\ snjTT 
rrffifV TO 1 

[ffo ^-350l 8( 55)/74- T fVeTT , Fo2] 


S.O. 3477.— Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as the Messrs Deekay 
International* 206-A-Z Industrial Estate Lower Parel* Bom; 
bay-13 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 


3752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/P AUSA 7, 1896 


[Part II— 


Provident Funds and the Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establi- 
shment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirty first day of December, 1973. 

[No. S. 35018/55/74-PR II] 


VT o ITT 0 3 478 — ^ tl WTT Vt RJ J1RT ft f% 

4 trPt ih ^ RTttR rrr, tr 

RTRTR^ft if o ifto HRT ¥ToRo TJ-m 5 9 RTRR^ rspiRR 

ft TO fRRtar tfft; ^WrfVzff arjR'w *r rtr rt RfRfr ft 
*rf t fa trrtCi qfTnr firfa %ftx wr Mir RfufaRR 
1952 (1952 m 19 ) % rrw fRm vt $tp] ; faq 

RT%U ; 

*tr:, m, srfttfRRR rttt 1 %V rrrtct ( 4 ) jm 
RRTT WrPRRt m RRPT ^ FT %RftR wmx RTR STfafRRR % 
sJTR 'PRTPT 91 PJ TTrft ft I 

if? RfR^TRT 1 9 7 3 % fcSFRT % fvr Tf RJTT }f 

HRift Jrw*ft i 

[^otTRo 350 1 8( 57)/7 4-4^0^0 2] 


S.O* 3478, — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Marol Co- 
operative, Industrial Estate, Marol Bhavan, Mathuradas 
Vassanji Road, J. B. Nagar, Post Bombay*59 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force 
on the thirty first day of December, 1973. 

[No. S. 35018/57/74-PF, III 


VJo Wo 3479 — RR' %=tftR RT*fnT RJ UTfat flRT ft fr 

4*rd it #3 rir# ft*, RWft-seoooi rtw 

m ?t TP=«nff TnffaPF tfVr ^nrHTfrjff rjrgrt isr rtr vx 
RJRR ft irf ft flp Rfa^T btfa (fir jjtr qn*r ftftr 

flftrfiTRR 1952 (1952 fR 19) % RRRS RTTi WTRR 4rt ^T?J 

fV^ ^ H nrljM. » 

rr:, rtf RforfRRR tft run 1 iff truth ( 4 ) sm 
rrtt irfaRRf tt irntn rru jr «N6r ■ tvtt gn trfafRRR ^ 
rrwtu rrr wrr «rt t^r^ort wpj; £ 1 

V? Wfaq^PTT 1 9 7 4 % RRTR % RRR f*R R ft RRSft 

omrnV i 


S.O, 3479.— Wherefts it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in re- 
lation to the establishment known as Messrs The Cash Phar- 
macy, 2, St Marks Road, BangaJore-560001, have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made app- 
licable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force 
on the first day of August, 1974. 

r* - 

[No. S. 35019 (201) /74-PF* II] 


WoWTo 348o — *TT: TrFTR TRtfK Tt RR ftlRT ft f% 

tflMdT ttfiz fio n-7, puo tnfo 

¥to?ffo ^fPr, trrqrUTR, RT^T fisrHT RIRf ?t RTSfiff 

pEflTT tftX M-4lWy WR iTRt TT qf ft ftr 

*RRTRt RfR^T ftrftr Rpr fRfij RfufRRR 1 9 5 2 ( 1 952 

^ 19) % rRTTR ^TPJ RT% HlfftrT * 

m:, H 3TR RlWlRR UTTT 1 PRUITT (4) ffTTT 
m JTfwfr VT URtR JR %Rfpr HTfTR RfH RfufRRR % 
TfP ERFTR %t R^UTU *Tnj ft l 

RJ Rftr^RT 1973 % % ^ftRR feT Wt R«JTT jf RRfft 

I 

[RoITR-3 50 1 8 ( 5 4 ) / 7 4—41 0 R;o 2 ] 


S.O. 3480. — Wheieas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment Known as Messrs Oriental Chemindus 
Private Limited, Plot No. 7, M. I. D. C. Chemical Zone 
Ambarnath, District Thapa have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 T 1 9 of 1952), should be made applicable to 
the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government heicby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirtieth day of June, 1973. 

[No. S. 3501S/54/74-PF. II] 


fRo WTo 3481 — RR; RJ ftltfl ft f% 

RHUR fRW ZrH f RFH f^fud¥ ; 2 0 8-RlRvpJT 

TT%, ^TfT R1RTRRT % RTRR, U^RTTRTR RTW ^RTRR ^ tppTO 
fTRpJPF ^RlfTRf *R RTR WK R^RR ft Rf ft ftr 

*f 'A -0 r 1V>R fuftj RriR fRfsr RfufURR 19 5 2 ( 1 9 52 

VT 19) % TTR-tJ RBJ W RTR Tlfftrr ; 

RR:, RR, RTH RftjfTTR tTPT 1 RRRRT ( 4 ) TRT 

RTR W^RRt «FT JTRtR RTR JIT %^R RT^R RfufRRR % 
» ^W> ^RTRR %T RTR ^TRRt ft I 

RJ Rfij^RRr 1974 % ^ RRR jf 

RRrft RTTTRt I 


[^oqR-350l9(20l)/7 4~ftoR^o 2 ] 


[R° T^ c, '3 50 19( 1 7S)/74— 'ft'orrq^o 2 ] 



Sec, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

s' __ 


S-O. 3481. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Crown Silk and 
Royon Mills Pvt. Ltd. 208, Shobhraj Park, Opp. Thakkar 
Bapanagar, Ahmed abad agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
\952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the twenty eighth day of February, 1974. 

[No. S, 35019 (178J/74-PF. II] 


34 8 2.— qTT ft^iffil +1 ftt SFjfpT S' fft 
Aim fftfpr ifnfm, tfftr fftFF fft^t Hpftr mr, 

2 thpf to ft nwz fipfpirr Vtr ftf *rg- 

ftwr VI qifT TT ^ fftfa tffr 

^WPT fftfft qftflwT 1952 (1952 WT 19) ft TTfttf' 

ptttt ft) fftq ^rrt ^ ; 

w; *w, Tdi qMfttm ftt hft i ftt tt-hpt(4) trt 
STTfT wfftprt TT Hftfii TTft jpr, H"PnT ft 

TTTd* TTfi I^Vm ftl WT | | 

w trftp];^ 1973 ft tjt% jm firrftt ^Trjr^^nrrfV 

TfTpft I 

[fto TTTTo J501 8 ( 53)/ 74-^° mtfo 2(i)] 


S.O. 3482. — Whereas it appears to the Ccntial Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in 
relation to the establishment known as Messrs Khanna Knit- 
ting Industries, Jivan Silk Mills Compound, Saki Nakn, 
Bombay-72, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into foieo 
on the first day of June, 1973. 

fNo. S. 35018(63)/74-PF 11(01 


vTotgr 0 3483,— ft^fPr tott, 

qfarr fftfft, 1952(19 5 2 tt 19) ftf hpt 6 ft 5 r«rn 

arm stt vrfftrftt *ft sptPt fftmr ft 

3tt^ ft mrR i^, 1973 ft AwA wm fftfcrT vwfm, ftfirr 

fe fft^TT TOTTER, Trrftf TTCT, 7 2 WH'FT ftt TOi '-J ft 

MTOftl ft fdT fftfftfW qrpft £ 1 

[do ddoT501 8( 53)/74-^o^o2(ii)] 


S.O, 3483. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the first 
proviso to section 6 of the Employees* Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central 
Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
116 01/74—10 


DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7. 1896 3753 

heteby specifies with effect from the 1st day of June, 1973 
the establishment known us Messrs Khanna Knitting Indus- 
ti ics, Jivan Silk Mills Compound, Saki Naka, Bombay-72, for 
the pui poses of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018(53)/74-PF. ll(ii)] 

*T°«To 3484. — *FT- TOTR ftt JTlfhT ^hTT ^ fir 

ftdft <J3Fd, TFT Tt¥, TWPm 

nw, V8M414N TFF F *«TPFT ft IftdTO fcftr 

ftt VT TFT TT dfdd tfT dt £ fir 'otXTft fftfft 

ftVr Tot firftr qfafiFFT 1952 ( 1952 19 ) ft TRti 

TrT wt ftt tpj fftrr ^nft qTf^ir , 

qd;, *TT, ^TT qfftlwr ftV HTTT 1 ftt ^UTTT (4) BTTT 

qfiprftt shift ^rrft 5 ^ ftdffir dTwrr ^ qfftfimd ft 
w r ftr ^ 1 

qfejTO 1974 ft dlft ft f^ET ftt $$ 

ddftt ^cpJifV I 

[doTTdo 3 5 0 1 9 ( 17 7)/ 74 j ftl'°tpT)t> 2] 

5.0. 3484. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs United Machine 
Tools, Nagarvel, Hanuman Road, Near Jalaram Estate, 
Rakhial, Anmedabad have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirty first day of March, 1974. 

[No. S. 35019 (177) /74-PF. II] 
fftMI'j 1 8 fftqrqr, 19 74 

frToqT® 3485. — ft^rr^rrftt srcft^ jfrrr $fft A*tA 
5^1 ^rir, qrftt Twr, {-72 
srrTO to ft w qVr ftt upmr w 

TT fft qf ft fft qfiw fftfiT ifttf ftWT fftfft 

qfufiro, 1952 (l952 Tf 19) ft TUTO TFT TOTT ftt ^P]T 
fftrr itlft ^rferr ; 

*PT , Wf, 3TT qfsjfiPPT ftt HP T 1 ftt TTHP r (4) JPf 
5TTfT qfwO qn HTPT m ^rr ft^ffir TR^TT qfftfiTTPT ft 
torh prm ftf ^ towi ^ i 

w> 1973 ft ft wn fftr ftt !^nr 
jTnrrPr i 

[q-o tpTo~350l8( 59)/74-tft* g(i)] 

New Delhi, the 18th December, 1974 

5.0, 3485. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Kailash Knitting 
Industriea, Kurla, Andhcri Road, Saki Naka, Bombay-72, 



3754 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 A 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the 
said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of June, 1973. 


[No. S. 35018/59/74/PF II(i)] 


WTto xtto 3 486. vU frftj 

xrfbfatrr, 1952 ( 1952 19 ) tjm e, % jpu jft 

vrfwff qrr rtPt qru gir, tot, w fwr *r 

*frr nr *r^TRr IRFijffar, ^rrf, 

TIT, R^t-72 TIW « *FTt i ^ 1 <) 7 3 T TPf 

TT7?F % ^PfHRt % fro- TOTt & ! 


[*U TTfj-.ssu 1 8 ( 59)/74-<fto Rfio-^n)] 


crnment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to ilie 
said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come Into force 
on the first day of July, 1974. 

[No. S. 3501 9(200) /74-PF-IUrj) 


usTo *no 3 4 s s. 7) 'nfV^r firftr *0 t jtu fThi 
’qftjfiPTT, 1952 (1952^T 19) UFT 6 % JWT JFT 

5r^T *rf¥pff *6T jft>t jtt, tutr fur 

% TTOTf «MTd* ^ ifiwfi- W^nr, 

5 6, TRTi' *qPTT foR^r. ( l) lOSJ, f^ra°TT R-d’P', 

^ijffwPT TtT 4$T *tV ( 2 ) 90,UTqmi fd'TFTT’fr, S^iTT, 
fpR Trrt Tumnr l^rrf, 1974 4tft top 7 

% strnpft ^ Errr fqlrfw TTPft ft 1 

[TTo TTjT-3 ? i0i9( 200)/74-’Tto mff-2 (ii)] 


S.O, 3486. —In cxcrusc of the powers conferred by Lhe 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Cen- 
tral Government, after making necessary efiquiry into the 
matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 1st day of June, 
1973 the cstablishmefit known as Messrs Kailash Knitting 
Industries, Kurla, Andheri Road, Saki Naka, Bombay-72 for 
the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S-3 5018/59/74/ PF-II( ii )] 

VT 0 WT 0 3487. — T4 ^ *fii?T$>Tr ft 
T HW &Z RTMtR jftWTt ^TFT, 3R^T^5 g TTW 

prm bm ( 1 ) iof»3, fa^r qn4rfa*mr fm 

^ ( 2 ) 90 , jpRTpfc hRPf^rrV, Wt vvft vrrwt 

vfr Tfufrr ft, farYw sfF- wrrf^n ^ *§*Twr 

qu TTfRrt ?t i tItr fate xftr TPTT 

fate Stfafaqq 19 5 2(1952^19) TU *TTTT ®tt 

*TRT fan- oTPf 

*tt , vw, 7pi utefaur urrr 1 *?r ^rum ( 4 ) opt 
WflRPft TT JTT ?r^IT wr * 

OTT TOTO TOh ft I 

q? 1974 % 1PPT fer 5T^T TPT5Tt 

^rmfr 1 

[TTo TfF-35019( 20o)/74 j fta ^-2(i)] 


S,0* 3488. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees* Provident Funds 
and family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Cen- 
tral Government, after making necessary enquiry Into the 
matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 1st day of July, 
1974 the establishment known as Messrs Karnataka State 
Agro-Corn Products Limited, Hebbal, Bangalore-56 Includ- 
ing its branches at (1) 1063, Siddappa Square, Vanivilas Road, 
Mysore and (2) 90, Mangalwarpet Tilakwadi, Belgaum, for the 
purposes of the said proviso. 


[No. S. 35019/200/74-PF-1K ii)] 


ttoxho 3489, — jpnfefar TfTfrn: sritTSMrft ffr 

jfft^rflNTT 4 r\z, 

4T qrfi^rfVql 97> qFT*TT 

TPT TT ft fV fqfij 

fan fqfcr Tifqfqqq 1952 ( 1952 19 ) % s ' 1! iTTq 

qii ^rnj irrq ’qrf^tr ; 

5TT 1 , "3tt qp:r l Tr Turn ( +) TP-| 

qrn urfaqqr tttt in nfirfqqq % 

TT^U *3W wu 4»t TT ^ ft I 

’q'ftTTjqTT 197 2 k TTU ^ UT fTT dh TTT -TTTT 

^TTrrff I 

[qo qrro*350i9( 1 53)/74-<fto rr^.^] 


8,0. 3487. — Wheictu* it appears to the Cential Governmeni 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Karnataka State 
Agro-Corn Products Limited, Hebbal, Bangalore-56, Includ- 
ing its branches at (1) 1063, Siddappa Square, Vanivilas Road, 
Mysore and (2) 90, Mangalwarpet Tilakwadi, Belgaum, have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees* Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Gov- 


S.O, 3489,— Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Pack-O-Pnnt, 
Monazaria Industrial Estate, 4 Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore- 
29, have agreed that the provisions ot the Employees’ Provi, 
dent Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub. 
section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Gov- 



Sec. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

efnment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the 
said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of August, 1972. 

[No S. 33019(153)/74-PF, lrj 

3 490 ■ — Rf Y44 OTOTR ^ far 

fRtrm rot mtRTOT TRrfanOT hott b, t pt- 
ottrt % rots fafrw xfR farfarfaft 
TO str qr to ft far OTRrrn vrfaOT farfa stf f^OT 

WT fafa *rf > J p P OT , 19 5 2 ( 1 9 5 2 OT ] 9 ) 4* TOT OTFOT 

ot tot Ittt ttt Trfa* , 

?TT , OT TOT ft UF7 1 tfr Wf ( 4) 3RT SK^f 

TpO’Hxrt OT UTOT <JTt ^pT RTTR TOT RfafOTT ^ 

WT 4> ROT OT?fr & I 

Tff trfm^Rr 197 4 T TfT % TOT to *Ft 5 $ otttT 

i 

[Ro 19u)/74-qVo tr^-2] 

5.0. 3490. — Whcieas it appeals to the Ccntial Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in i ela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Seth Girdharilal 
Damodai das Ralhi f Post Box No. 6, Raichur, have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made appli- 
cable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the 
said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of June, 1974. 

[No. S. 35019/199 /74/PF-1I] 

*Tc SfTo 3 4 9 1 , — OT OTtfaf ROTR *1 OT OTOT ffPJT % far 
^PT fRH«OT jfOT OTRTT, 1 5 TtC, TOTT RTTOT 

A W Mm tfrr OTOTTfOTt *4 OT RT R ROT 

fi nf ft far otott 4 rirfa isffa jtot w farftr 

1952 ( 1952 J 9) % TRTOT TOT WR OT RPJ fan 

t 4TfTT ; 

TO , TOT XtfhfanK «ft tJRT 1 TROTF ( 4 ) ORT 

spxn srfafat rr spffa tot pt Riffa rtr tot *rfafam t 
totot tot Firrm ot rpj ottF $ \ 

m ^rftrfOTT 1974 mS % tot far Tt 5 pm ^ rt# 

^rppfr 1 

[?T 0 TTn"o- 1 50 1 9( 1 £ !h)/7 4 J fto Trcpo-2( i )] 

5.0, 3491. — Whereas it appeals to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in 1 elation to the said establishment known as Messrs Lamp 
Components Trading Company, 15, Kessington Road, 


DECEMBER 28 ? 1974/PAUSA 7* 1896 3755 


Bangalore, have agreed that the provision of the Employees’ 
Piovident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said esta- 
blishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, th© Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Ad 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of May, 1974, 

[No. S. 35019( 1561/74 PF-LH01 


TT° TTo 3492. — TOTR otNfI wrfaOT fafa rffa 
W*T faftr XrfafaOT, ] 9 5 2 ( 1952 4*T 1 9 ) ^ b % TOT 

5TTT TOT wfaTTt irr fcfOT *FOT r, rim 

tgR-cmr TOT OT4 1 1r TOTFT l \97 4 TOTT^fT 

4OTpft-15 3 ^faFOT TR, TOTYr 4“OT^ FOTOT *Ft TH 4* 

RfOTfr 4r fan ^ l 

[to ttt.> 159 19(15(0 7^4(0 rf^ t ,2(II)] 


S.O* 3492. — In exercise of the powers confcncd by the 
flist proviso to section 6 of the Employees' Provident Funds 
and family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the 
Central Government after making necessary enquiry into 
the matter, heieby specifies with effect from the 1st day of 
May, 1974, the establishment known as Messrs Lamp 
Components Trading Company, 15, Kessington Road, 
Bangalore, for the purposes ol the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(156) /74-PF. 11(h)] 


VToWR 3 40 3, — TT & fa faq 

Trqy i J TTft^Y T5 TR, TTfOTT-20 

OTTT OTTTT it *TWTT faYtTT ^4TrfOTt ^fT«TT OT 
tft r 4 ^ ^ fa farftr w^r 

fafa ifffafiTOT; 1952 ( 1 9 5 2 ; FT 19) % TTOTJ "3"FT FqpT'f 'f> 
R7T far Tfa , 

SR , TT, ETfafaOT JTOT 1 Ttm^l ( 4 )- ^TOT 5TTR- 

wftOTr tot ^fafa^rr T ttrt 

OTjm Tt ttt * 1 

rt 1971 T ^ tWY to ot ,4 

[To TTq 1 ^- 1 5U 1 7( OT)/7 t4to rr 9T .> 2 ] 


S.O. 3493. — Whereas it appeals to the Cenhal Government 
that the employer and the mnjonty of the employees in 
1 elation to the establishment known as Messrs International 
Packers and Movers, 1, Jagadish Chandra Bose Road, 
Calcutta-20 have agieed that the provisions of the Employe- 
es’ Provident Lunds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
( J9 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the thuacth day of September, 1971. 


[No, S. 3 5017/3 8 /74-PF. II] 



3756 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1974/P AUSA 7, 1896 [Part II— 


*To<fTo 3494 . — FW TOtF TO Tt ^ 5 rTO I far 
4f4 TOptff tTO*hm t'l'TOw ftTO TOTO, i 9 frv r Tft 

FPTT TtT, f^TOT *TO ( ^^-9 fwt (l) ^ TOT, TTTOt-2 

(2) flWtfFT flw F fcTO %, %FRT faTO TF^f W 'tft 

TOfTO fr tot prm F f*t* TOfarr TO tfttIfft tV 
ff to tt t^ht J[T <i4) fr fr Tfirnt ^rfror farfg - 
TO m fafu TOTOf, 1952 ( 1952 tt 19) ^ tim 
ttt fm tJ to far to ttTO, 

■w n ■, *r* ( j+<i ^TOftf stri 1 ftuttt ( 4) sitt 

ftt tt ffPt jf, %TfUr fttf - ftt nfdfiHu % 

FH FTT PH ITT c-TI 4 ^ TTTT \ 

F$ wfarq^m 1973 Tt tost t m far Tt fto gf 
fTO TlTO I 


[Fo tt+j- 35018( 5ft)/ 7 4-^ft 0 2(i)] 


S,0 + 3494,— Whereas it appears to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees In rela- 
tion to the establishment known as Messrs Reliable Com- 
mercial Corporation Private Limited, 19 Kesha vji Naik Road, 
Chinch Bunder Bombay-9, including its branches at (1) Jew 
Town Cochin-2, (2) Industrial Estate, Highway Road, Mchsana 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into 
force on the first day of November, 1973. 

[No. S. 35018/58 /74/PF-II(i)] 


^To nrfo 3493. — Tfinrt vrfa^rr farfu vftr tztf qurr firfET 

TOtTOf, 1 952 ( 1952 TT 19) Tt TOT 6 T WT 'FTJT 

itft fto vrfiTOT to TOf TOt jf. ^TOt xmnr, vf fwr 4 
mimvw TO tt faroro tVtTOf tiTO 

PtTO t, 1 9 tot TO, fTO wro, 

frot (1) % to*t, tHft- 2 (2) TOrtfirr tttT TO, 

faTO FF'fa TTirar^ iffy TOafiTT fr TOT TOFT Tt t 

toto, 1973 ftt q 7 % fTOtfT % fra fafarfTO *fTO 

£ 1 

[F° TFT-J501k( 5K)/74TO rrr^ o 2 ( ii ) ] 


S.O* 3495. — In exercise of the powcis confeired by Ihc 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry 
into the matter, hereby specifics with effect from the let 
day of November, 1973 the establishment known as Messrs 
Reliable Commercial Corporation Pvt. Ltd., 19 Kesha vji 
Naik Road, Chinch Bunder, Bombay-9 including its branches 
at (1) Jew Town, Cpchin-2 (2) Industrial Estate, Highway 
Road, Mchsana for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018(58)/74 PF-II(ii)] 


__ """ F'- 

VT° WTo 3496. — ?PT: *m,l< ft m snffn ffcrT fr fr 

TOfi ft tf^t TOfFtot farfaro, qirTOj TOtt, TOft 

tot TO, ^TO-20 TOT TOFT 4 TO* TOfafT TO T^- 
TTfart Tf JT^TTT ^F TO TOFT iff t fa* tTOt^ 
fTO -TO TO fTO TOfTO 1952 ( 1 95 2 TT 19) % 

TTTrF TT5 PTOTT Tt TOT jTO TFT 

ifPT, m, TFT ^fTOT Tt TOT 1 ^TTOi ( 4 ) ffiTT 

Tfarot tt TO - ttt Ffufror T 

prm tT to $ 1 

Fff trTa^FTT 1973 % T5 ^ TFF TO Tt 5p^T g# TF=nrfV 

TOnt 1 


[Fo rpTo-3501 8( 32) 74-Tt^ FTo2(i)] 


S.O, 3496, — Whereas it appears to the Centra] Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in re- 
lation to the establishment known as Messrs Parkunti In- 
vestments (Private) Limited, Vaswani Mansions, Dinshaw 
Vachha Road, Bombay-20, have agreed that the provisions 
of the Employees* Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of June 1973. , 

[No. S. 35018/32/74/PF-IHI)] 


tto To’ 3497. — TOPt f t stx fTOt farfa nV 

frrT TO TOr, fFuTOf, 1952 (1952 tt 19) ^*T iittt 

6 % W TT^T TFT FTO WlffTift TT 5TF>T TFT gF, 

TOt fi towt TOt ttT ^7 qrrRf^ 1 ^ 1973 ^ tTOV 

tttoTto (ttTO) farfaTO, totoV TOt, TOft toi TO, 

tTO-20 tot 5=fttt Tt ttt tt-to ^ fTTOT T TO fTO- 

iw Tot % 1 

[*To rrn-a 350 l 8( 3 2 ) /7 4-TOttTo 2 ( ii ) ] 


S.O. 3497, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the 

Central Govenment, after making necessary enquiry into 
the matter, hereby specifies with effect from the 1st day of 
June, 1973 the establishment known as Messrs Parkunti 
Investments Private Limited, Vaswani, Mcnslon, Dinshaw, 
Vachha Road, Bombay-20, for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. S-35018/32/74/PF-lI(ii)j 


TT o ^TTu 34 99. — TT ^FjfpT FTTF" Tt FF SRflT ffpTT fr 
fir TOT $0 TO farTO rnrj tTOT, TfiTO tfft TOt, 

TO 4 (1) irifTO fTO tTO 3?jt (2) farTO tpi¥ 

fTOT, fTO tTO ftTO fTOTO fr, tot prm % 

to* TOTO TO fjTOt jh to tt gt 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 28, 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 3757 


nf ft fa TOfanl rItot farBr sffa jero ^vnTffaffcT 1952 

( 19 52 to 19 ) % tor to tot fa?r Rfa RTfai 1 

ttto to, itt srfafffro Tt qm 1 ( 1 ) str 

tor vrfaTO to TOtn* ^ 7 % %fafa totor -hto % 

totoi ^ rpt ^Trft- ft | 

TO fffff^ffffT 1972 % tojjtt qf: tor fsff *A sraR 

wt rfHV ' 


(Ro FFo-J 50 ] 9( 1 52)/ ;4-4V°FT° 2] 


S.O. TO98, — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs K. V. 
Shenoy and Company, Puttur, South Kanara District, in- 
cluding its branches at (1) Office Service Station, Puttur, 
(2) K. V. Shenoy and Company, Panemangalor, have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees" Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the Jlr t t day of October, 1972. 

[No. S. 35019/1 52/74/PFTI] 


TTo WTo 3499 — TO W At TO JFPrT ftfaff ft fa 

Aw wrw fro4, «ft , *r«PT«r fry, finr TOwfc rtotto faffr, 
fffffffffT 1 ? tito t'ww ^ rjto TO fa i Pfai At fff- 

TOTf T'T TR TO FRET ftt ff£ ft fa TOTffTft fffa*ff Mil sffr 
f^r ffro fafa Rfafron 1952 (1952 to 19) % iwu 
TTO ^TTFT TO MR fa^ RTff ffTfftff, 

TO, TO, ffffT RffffffTO At URT 1 Ipir ^THFT ( 4 ) STOT 
tor Rfafat to TOfa tor jr tojHt r?to7 tto Rfafaror T 
ttor tto to tor torY ft 1 

TO RfffRffro 1973 % faroro % itto fro strr ^ 
wi 1 


^o- 35019( 55)/74-fffaRT° 2] 


S.O. 3499. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer, and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as the Messrs Moorthy 
Offset Printers, Thiruthangal Road, Sivakashi, Ramnad 
District, Tamil Nadu have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees' Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, the ref 01 e, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the first day of December, 1973, 

[No, S. 35019(55) /74-PF.II] 


*ToW° 3 5 0 0 — TO: TOjftff TOTR TO HR Sfffa tffffT ft fa Am TOTtf 

Ath ritPt fafafar, i5/4, t re, Ttnmro toto 

totto frofa topir 4t), T 14474 Tfa fte*fr-ii ifaffff fwt 
totott r 4r ft A torr faqrw TOr TO^ml^qr At 
JfgWI Tt T TOT TO TOTO iff fft ft fa fffffffaT *rfaff fafffa 
jot tor fafur srfufaffro 1052 (1952 to im) A 
rttto TO tor trot ffffftff 1 

TO , TO, Rffff fffafffTOT fft UFT 1 TO RfftflR (4) 3TTT 
TOR RfaRt TO TO FT TOR ftrotR TORP ffffff FffflffTOr % RTO 
TOR **TTTO TO RpJ TOfff ft 1 

HR RfejRFT 19 73 if R fffTO faff TO Rfff 

HWT RTfffa I 

fao ffffo-35tm)( 7a)/74-9toUfflo 2(i)] 


S.O. 3301). — Whereas it appears to the C entral Govern- 
ment that the employer andl the majority of the employers 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Bharat 
Foam Udyog Private Limited, 15/4 Mathura Road, Farida- 
bad, including its Registered Office at 49, Rajpura Road, 
Delhi-6, have, weed that the provisions of the Employees* 
Provident Fuj&fand Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), shotw'be made applicable to the said establish- 
ment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section J of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirtieth day of November, 1973, 

[No. S. 3501 9/76/74/PF-TT f 1 )] 


TOolTTo 3501 — RTTOR tfifalf) fffVff fafa tfTt 
ifapr fffftr, srfuffTTO, 1952 ( 1952 to 19) «rm r> ^ rto 

q-r^TT ffPT TOR TO TOtff TOff gF, fffTO A 

TTTTOTO7 ffTff TOff 47 TORTR, 3 0 ffffJTO - , 1 9 7 3 ff *TFT T TpT 

TOfftff srTTOff fafafai 1 , 15/4 ffa TOftTnrrff ffrror 
fft farfa TOpfa 4 9 , trojn fas', fa^ff-o faro totto Tfa^faff 
TOfffffff At ft, ■ 31 R t??5t % TOfafar % fafa fa G fa ^ TO^fr ft i 

(tfo rrffo*350l9( 7h)/74 2 (ii) 


S.O. 3501, — Jn exercise of the powers conferred by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees* Provident Funds 
and Family Pension bund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the 
Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into 
the matter, hereby specifies with tffect from the 30th day 
of November, 1973 the establishment known as Messrs 
Bharat Foam Udyog Private Limited, 15/4, Mathura Road, 
Faridabad, including its Registered Office at 49, Raipura 
Road, Delhi-6, for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019/76/74/PF4I(ii)] 


TO* 5 3502 — ffff fffafa ffVffF TOfa fttfft ft fa 

TOff Hm farrr nrfe, too ffmroH rtt, (yff) 

59 ffPTT TOTO A fafffaPT xffa qrffffrfWt ffj- 

ffTOT Pff ffTff 47 WTO ftt fff ft fa TOfafaf fafff tffa 


116 GI/74 — 11 



3758 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 4 1974/PAUSA 7, 1896 


wh fprftr Hftrbm 19=12 (1052 r 10) 

RTTT Tt farrr TlA ^ i farr ; 

HR TFT! HfufTTH Tl* 4TR 1 tT trttr ( 4 ) £TTT 
5TRT ttIvrit tt tR r;n- rAh hrtr mi ^rfafruT t 
M nTTT TT ?TFr TRt £ I 

197 < T fwF ^7 Ft^t A sfta 

TOt 1 

[#0 mr- i 50 IH( 5 N )/ 74 -TtuTRlo 2] 


S.O* 3 5 02 .^Whereas it appeals to the Central Government 
that the employer and the majority of the employees in re- 
lation to the establishment known as Messrs Noble Packag- 
ing, Mittal Ettate, M. Vasanji Road, Andhari (Hast) Bombay- 
59 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Pro- 
vident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), should be made applicable to tho said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Cential 
Government hereby applies thp provisions of the said Act 
to the satfT^establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to into force 

on the thirtieth day of September, d973. 

[No. S 5/56/74-PF.IJ] 


TF° *To 3 5(^3 — TAFT FRR Tt *R SFTpT sjfcTT $ fa 

| Hf ^4 <i ) FiPh i * , Hi 1R Ho i, TfafiFR 
A HRT r jJhJT; TtJ, suWfal t HTHT fW HHf 
fatfRT hFt ^FrrTRff ^ Hjsfarr rf hth r hwt ft ni t 
fa HfaR fafa rfp - tHH ftfa HfafWT 1952 

( 1 9 52 TT 19) HTTF RTTH Tt HFT fa^ iffa ^ ifa* , 

^ fy Hi 4 H URT 1 A TTHRT ( 4 ) tTPT 

5T^ wfarA TT *FR jrr RAH *R fl r>J> RE nfafaTH % 

RP7R RF RTTH Tt RPJ T< <fll f? I 

HFfJTHT 1471 % HTJHT T TRT Tth tt 

HHffr^nrpfr 1 

[*R TT7T- 35014(1 5 5 ) / 7 4- r ft o TTi o 2 ( i ) ] 


S.O. 3503, — Whcicas it appeals to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Mantons 
(Bangalore) (Private) Limited, Site No. I, koramangala Indus- 
trial layout, Hosur Road, Bangalore-34 have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees' Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made appli- 
cable to the said establishment ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of tho powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provision* of tho said Act 
to the said establishment. 


[Part II — 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into lAce’ 
on the first day of October, 1973. 

[No. S. 35019(155) /74-PF. il(i)j 

irr° spo 3504 — VsfUr httr >t4frt vrfaR fafa nri 
Rpt fcfrr, 1952 (1952 tt 19 ) A hpt u T hhh 

RHJF 3RT HTH vifeA TT TAt TR ^tt ; faTpj ^ 

^TTH % TTHTT 1 TOpR, 1973 H ( HHHR j 

WhR?, HTTH Ho i ; *FRttpPT % STTSH, 

3FFfbr-J4 HTHT ^FTTH Td n^fRT THT % RJRHt T 

Pi'( foftfw I TR F ft ^ I 

[Ho UH- i 5 0 1 9( 1 5 5)/ 7 t-Ttorr^ 0 j ( ii ) ] 

S.O* 35U4. — In exercise of the powers confeircd by the 
first proviso to section 6 of the Employees’ Piovidcnt Funds 
and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the 

Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the 
mattei, hereby specifies with effect fiom the 1st day of Octo- 
ber, 1973, the establishment known as Messrs Mantons 
(Bangalore) (Private) Limited, Site No. 1, Koramamrala 
Industrial lay-out, Hosur Road, Bungalore-34 for the purposes 
of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35019(155) /74-PF, ll(ii)j 

VT° WR 3 30 5- -HH: feftH RHR R R HtHT ^ fH 

4hH WPftfTPF ^ 4 , 15 RH rr^o Hfo 

Ah, Hi^f HTHT HtTR H RTff WtR 

hjhw w w h hhhh nf # ft> rNtA 
PtFet hA rth fnftr HfqfFm, 1452 ( 19-52 r 1 4 ) 

% RPRcT dHi ^HFPT TPJ ji A ^ 7fK TT , 

WJTj FH; FfnfHHH A HRT 1 RTURT (4) JTRT 

RTRH HTB PHTTH Tt HPJ TRTt ^ 1 

1974 T HR % RHtHH Tt TRT 

HHTftTPpft I 

[^fotpTo 3 SO] H( 72)/7 R4Ta tt^ 0 H] 
HRo ^to HR 

S.O. 3505. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that the employer and the majority of the employees 
in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Economic 
Enterprises, 15, Patel Industrial Estate, S. V. Road, Dahisar, 
Bombay have agreed that the provisions of the Employees* 
Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952). should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (4) of section 1 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to 
the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force 
on the thirty first day of March, 1974. 

[No. S. 35018(72) /74-PF.IT] 
R. P NARLLA, Under Secy, 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, RING ROAR "NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI-6, 1974 



