

BSOISTERED Ho D tt> 


3M lltd ssr 

Uhe (Saacttc of Jfjudla 


infamfl iwfsra 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Ro 17] 

No. 17] 


5 t£ ?rf^it, wrh 22, 1972/3?;,^ 2, s< 4 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1972/ VAIS AKHA 2, 1894 


3W ^ V-45 1 *hwt crrat | fwi% fo w^rn 1 g % w Sr t #t ctt » 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed a is a separate compilation 


II — *T«¥ 3 — (ii) 
PART n— Section 3-^Sob-section (II) 


(WT qtfTC) ^TRcT *rT*EK #T Rgtiq q T ^ SfSmPT 

STMtT^ 9TTTT 5TrO f%& ^ faftpF tfk tfrferg^HTCf I 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than the 
Administration of Union Territories.) 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1972 

S.O. 076 — In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad, 
in the industrial dispute between the employers m re- 
lation to the management of Singareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Post Office Balampalli (Andhra Pra- 
desh), and their workmen, which was received by the 
Central Government on the 20th March, 1972. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL) 
AT HYDERABAD 

Present : 

Sri P,S. Ananth, B.Sc., B.L., 

Chairman, Industrial Tribunal, 

Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Miscellaneous Petition No. 293 of 1968 

IN 

Industrial Dispute No. 30 of 1967 
Between; — 

1. Ch, Lakshman, 

2. Bonda Rayamallu, 

3. G, Kotaiah. 

4. G. TarapatL 

5. Ch Rajanarsu, 


6. D. Ramulu* 

7. T, Bhimaiah, 

8. P, Rajanaraiu 

9. G. Ilayya, 

10. Nasar Mohammed. 

11. Shaik Yakub, 

12. P. Raj am, 

13. M. Narayana, 

14. Sayed Mohammed, 

15. Babu Khan, 

16. Mohd. Ismail, 

1 7 D. Oudetu 

18. K, Kesavulu. 

19. B R, mulu. 

20. M. Simhadrl, 

21. M, Maisulu, 

22. P. Rajalingti. 

23. L. Xraiah, 

24. K Posham. 

25. M. Suraiah, 

26. K. Ayelas. 

27. G. D, Kakkaiah, 

28. G. Komaralabu 

29. P Lakshmlnarayana, 

30. K. Sala. 


( 'Ml ) 



J 54 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


I.Part II— 


31 M, Purgaiali, 

a 2. I, Setty , — petitioners « 

AND 


Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him 
and corrected by me and given under my hand and 
the seal of Ihe Tribunal, tills the 8th day of February, 


The Singarani Collieries Co t7 Ltd,, Kothagudera, 

represented by its General Manager. — R^u^adcnL 


(3d) P. S. Ananth, 
Ind iiol rial Tiab anal. 


APPEARANCES : 

Sri M. Komariah, General Secretary, Smgaroni 
Col l.i tics Worker. »' Union >f<rv *rr. 

Sri M. V, Ramakrishna Rao, Assistant Person- 
i-.'il O dicer, Singareni Collie lies Co., Ltd. — -for 
Rrsn-'nidonv. 


AWARD 

This is a petition filed undser Section 33 A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to 
ft s the said Act) praying to direct the Management not 
to alfect the service conditions of the petitioners. 

The petitioners are the workmen employed under 
the respondent, which Is the Singareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Kothagudcm. In their petition Ihey 
contended that they have been permanent workmen 
employed under the respondent Company as Boring 
Mazdoors, that all of them belonged to Category II as 
per the Wage Board Recommendations, that Lt).No 4 3Q 
of 1967 is pending for adjudiction, that they are direct- 
ly connected and concerned with that dispute, that the 
respondent ha-3 without obtaining prior permission of 
this Tribuna] has notified by notice dated 22nd Novem- 
ber 1968 under Section 9 A' of the said Act proposing 
to alter the service conditions, that the respondent is 
not entitled to arbitrary change the service condi- 
tions and so the petitioners are obliged to fUe thi? 
petition and that the respondent should be directed 
not to give effect to the proposed change in the service 
conditions. 


3. The respondent filed a counter mentioning the 
circumstances under which the settlement was effected 
between the respondent and tha unions, and further 
contended that the petitioners were transferee! as Coal 
Filers, that though there was no necessity tor The 
Management to issue any notice under Section 9 \ bv 
way of abundant precaution, the notice was issued, 
that the case of the petitioners is not pending in LD. 
No. 30 of 1367 and so the petitioners cannot invoke Ihe 
jurisdiction of this Tribunal and that the action by the 
Management is justified and legal. 


After the filing of the counter in this case, Ihe 
matter underwent some adjournments due to unready- 
ness of the parties and also because the powers under 
Section 8 of the said Act were not received from the 
Central Government After the powers were received 
under Section 8 of the said Act the matter was posted 
for enquiry and a representation was made on 17th 
January 1972 by the respondent’s representative that 
the petitioners arc not interested in going on with the 
petition as their grievance:* had been regressed. _ Since 
the petitioners' representative was not in a position to 
say whether the matter had been settled he took some 
time to verify the matter came up report to this Tri- 
bunal Finally when the matter came uo before this 
Tribunal on 81h February. 1372 a petition was filed bv 
the General Secretary of Smgnreri Collines Workers 
Union ’KoUmgudcin, stating that the case wa^seuled 
mutually between the Management and the Union and 
so the Union is not pressing the matter before tins 
Tribunal. 


5 In view of tlic present petition filed stating that 
IhV matter had been settled mutually between the 
P hit i oners and the icspondrr.t, there is nothing else 
that could clone in this matter. So the matter is 
trealed os settled. 


Award is passed accordingly. 


LNo. 7/21 /o7-1jRII.] 
A Cm Wth 4 jri? 1972 

977 — in pursuance c l seed m 17 of lh* Indus- 
trial DLnuo-o Act, 1947 M * of 1947), the Central Gov- 
ernment Vrehv publuhe; the following award of the 
Gcnlial Government Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad, 
in the .industrial dispute between the employers in 
rekdion ,0 the management of Singarcru Collieries 
Company Limiter], Post Office Kothagudcm t Anahra 
I-Tadesh), an d tli ei r w 01 km en , wh j cli w as r ec el v e d 
by the Central Government on the 29th March, 1972. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL) 
AT HYDERABAD 


Present: 

Sri P. S. Ananth, B.Sc., B.L., Chairman, Industrial 
Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Miscellaneous Petition No, 91 of 1971 

IN 

Industrial Dispute No. 30 of 1967 
Between: — 


1. Kopparthi Ankaiah 

2. Perka Lingiah 

3. Ankam Bondialu 

4. Shaik Hyder 
fi. Kandunuri 

Lingalah 

6. Choppari 

Venkateshwaralu 

7. Pamula Ankulu 
fi Akir e d d i Raj am 
9. Banna Malliah 


General 
Maz doors, 

Shaplikhani, 

S-C. Co., Ltd., 

P.o. Bclampalli. — Petition* 


and 

The Manager, SliantikhanI, Singareni Collirios 
Co., Ltd., P. O. Bellapipalli, — ftaffpondenf. 

Appearances : 

Sri K. Satyanarayana, Advocate, for Petitioners 
Sri M, Shy am Mohan, Personnel Officer, S.C. 
Co., Ltd-, p.O. Bell amp alii, — Respondent. 

AWARD 

1. This is a petition filed under Section 33A of the 
industrial Disputes xAct, 1947 (hereinafter referred to 
as the said Act). 


2. The contentions of the petitioners in their pottion 
in short are thf\se — Thorn is reference LD, No. 30 of 
1067 (In the petition the LD. No. is wrongly mentioned 
ns I.D- No. 30/47) pending before this This Tribunal. 
Tlv> Pe+i honors are also workmen covered by 
s-iid ref civ nee. The respondent Issued order 
d-’U'd. iMb , September, 1968 transfering the petitioners 
from time rnted er-dcgnrv { General Mazdoors to piece 
rated fibers. This alteration In the employment of 
the petitioners has altered all the service conditions 
including- payment of wages, quantum, mode of pay- 
ment, nature of. duti 00 and the rHks involved all 
heio '4 matters connedel with the dispute. 1o the pre- 
judice of the workmen concerned and so the 
respondent has contravened the provisions of sec- 
tion 33 of the said Act. One Mekala Jagadish 
and eleven other time rated workmen affected by the 



Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1543 


same order dated 15th September, 1968 had already 
approached this Tribunal with their complaint under 
M.P. 265/68 and the said complaint resulted in an 
agreement and the said workmen had been restored 
to their original status by an agreement dated 19th 
April, 1971. So the petitioners may be granted the 
necessary relief. 

The respondents’ contention in its counter in short 
are these:— The designation shown as General Maz- 
doors by the petitioners in the claims statement is 
false and misguided as they were only Tunnel Maz- 
doors. The petitioners are workmen concerned in the 
dispute but not connected with the dispute. The 
Management in accordance with Rule 34 under Section 
9A of the said Act by the notice dated 30th May, 1968 
in Form E informed all the resistered Trade Unions 
and^the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Hyderabad, that it was its intention to effect the 
change specified in the annexure of the notice w 7 ilh 
effect from 21st June, 1988. There is no alteration the. 
conditions of service to the prejudice of the workmen 
and no adverse effect is caused to the workmen as 
they stand to gain in their emoluments as the wages of 
the piece rated workmen are higher. The workmen 
have no cause to complain as the Central Wage Board 
Recommendations for the Coal Industry are imple- 
mented in respect of < ‘ 1 * ’! :• .* "A wages. The 

agreement referred tc ‘ i:-- s’-. with other 

workmen does not apply to the *vf s “or *«•*. T 1r n 
practice in vogue is to transfer ; \it ; y i m; -'i : >i‘ : 
to piece rated fillers whenever there is necessary or 
whenever the Tunnel work is completed to find em- 
ployment for workmen thus rendered surplus. There 
is no change in their duties as both jobs are unskilled 
under the same underground conditions of w T ork. The 
workmen are not exposed to greater risks either in 
tunnelling or in extracting coal as a piece-rated or 
time rated worker. So there is no prejudice 
caused to the workmen and the complaint is not 
genuine. It is inherent right of the Management to 
transfer its workmen from one category to another 
category or from one job to another job as long as 
there is no reduction in emoluments under the Stand- 
ing Orders of the Company. The transfer of the 
workmen is covered by terms expressed or implied 
and by word agreements under Section 33(2) (a) of 
the said Act. The liability of the workmen to be 
transferred from one department to another or from 
one category to another is an ordinary incident of ser- 
vice and such transfers cannot amount to the contra- 
vention of Section 33 of the said Act. It is internal 
function of the Management to transfer is employees 
from one work to another work. 

3. The point that arises for determination in this 
petition is: Whether there has been any contravention 
of Section 33(1) (a) of the said Act and whether the 
order dated 15th September, 1968 transferring the 
petitioners as piece rated fillers is liable to be set 
aside? 

4 f The respondent is the Singareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Bellampalli. The petitioners were pre- 
viously working as Tunnel Mazdoors in Shanti Khani, 
as seen from the evidence though the petitioners des- 
cribed themselves in the petition as General Mazdoors. 
The petitioners and other were transferred as piece 
rated fillers by the order of the respondent dated 15th 
September, 1968. Now the petitioners have filed this 
petition questioning the order passed by the respon- 
dent. The first contention of the petitioners is that 
as I.D. No. 30 of 19f7 r, t- 1 ---- -- s n the service 

conditions etc., are 11 . 1 , ■ . and as they 

are connected with ■ , , . :■ . , . < ipondent can- 

not pass any order transferring them as piece rated 
fillers and that such an order is in contravention of 
Section 33(1) (a) of the said Act. The contention 

of tie respondent is that no doubt I.D. No. 30 of 1967 
is pending but that the present dispute relating to the 
present petition is not a matter connected with I.D. 


No. 36 of 1967 and that all that can be said is that the 
petitioners are workmen concerned in that dispute 
and so there is no violation of the provisions of Sec- 
tion 33 (1) (a) and that the respondent has taken 
action only under Section 33 (2) (a) of the said Act 
after issuing the necessary notice under Section 9A 
of the said Act. 

5. Now it has to be seen whether under the circum- 
stances of this case it can be said that the present 
order of the respondent transferring the petitioners as 
piece rated fillers is in contravention of the Section 
33(1) (a) of the said Act. In order to appreciate the 
contentions of the parties, it would be useful to refer 
to the dispute which is the subject matter of I.D. No. 
30 of 1967. The Government of India, Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment) by its Gi'der No. 
7/21/67-LRII, dated 30th October, 1967 referred the 
following dispute under Section 10(1) (d) of the said 
Act for adjudica-ion by this Tribunal, namely: 

‘‘Subject to the views expressed and reccmnvnda- 
tioos made by the Central Wage Board for 
Coal Mining Industry, and the agj’e:ment be- 
tween the Management ci Singareni Col- 
lieries Company Limit/ d and their trade 
unions referred to, in paragraphs 3 to 6 of 
Chapter IX oi the Wage Board’s report, 
what further modifications and changes in 
the categorisation and wage structure recom- 
mended by the said Wage Board for West 
Bengal and Bihar coal fields are necessary to 
make the said categorisation and wage stnic- 
ture applicable to the workmen of the Sin- 
gareni Collieries Company Limited, having 
regard to the special conditions obtaining in 
the Andhra Pradesh coalfields/ 1 . 

This Industrial Dispute is ponding. A perusal of the 
dispute covered by ID. No. 30 of 1967 shows that this 
Tribunal is requested to adjudicate on the question as 
to what further modifications and changes in the cate- 
gorisation and wage structure recommended by the 
wage board for West Bengal and Bihar Coal fields are 
necessary to make the said categorisation and wage 
structure applicable to the workmen of the Singareni 
Collieries Company Limited. 

6. Now considering the nature of the dispute cover- 
ed by I.D. No. 30 of 1967 if the petitioners are General 
Mazdoors and if they had been transferred as piece 
rated fillers underground them there may be some 
scope for the contention of the petitioners that such 
a transfer is in contravention of the provisions of 
Section 33(1) (a) of the said Act, because there is 
bound to be change in service conditions. But from 
the evidence it is seen that the petitioners worked 
only as Tunnal Mazdoors underground and now they 
have been transferred as piece rated fillers under- 
ground. It is contended by the learned counsel for 
the petitioners that so far as the Tunnel Mazdoors 
are concerned they are under category I as per the 
Wage Board and that there is no separate category 
for piece rated filler’s job and so there is change in 
the service condition and that if the petitioners are 
continued in category I they would be entitled to 
whatever benefits that they may derive in the event 
of any award being passed in I.D. No. 30 of 1967 in 
their favour. I feel that this contention may hold 
good if the petitioners had been working as General 
Mazdoors working on surface. I have already observ- 
ed that the petitioners had been working only as 
Tunnel Mazdoors underground and now the respondent 
has transferred them as piece (rated fillers under- 
ground. No doubt it may so happen that due to this 
transfer so far as the wages is concerned from daily 
rated they become piece rated but it is now seen from 
Ex. R1 that it is because there was no further Tunnel 
work that could be given to Tunnel Mazdoors the res- 




15^4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


pondent instead of sending them away for want of job 
issued the necessary notice and transferred them as 
coal fillers . No doubt it is contended by the learned 
counsel for the petitioners that if there i$ no work 
then the respondent should have taken steps to re- 
trench them after following the provisions of Section 
25F of the said Act. But I do not feel that simply 
because the respondent without invoking the provi- 
sions of Section 25F had given some alternative 
appointment there had been violation of the provi- 
sions of Section 23 (1) (a) of the said Act. The res- 
pondents' representative also contended that under 
Standing Order 15 of the Company's Standing Orders 
(copy of the Standing Orders was produced before 
me for my perusal at the time of arguments) the em- 
ployees are liable to be transferred from one section 
to another section also, In order to appreciate his 
contention Standing Order 15 is extracted here and it 
is as follows: “15. All employees are liable to be 
transferred from one department to another or from 
one section to another or from one colliery to another 
under the same management provided such transfer 
does not cause any prejudice to their wages and other 
conditions of service". 

7. Now it is seen that so far as the petitioners are 
concerned they have been working only as Tunnel 
Mazdoors underground and now they have been trans- 
ferred as piece rated coal fillers underground. Under 
Section 33(2) (a) of the said Act during the pen- 
dency of any proceedings before the Industrial Tri- 
bunal in respect of an industrial dispute the employer 
may, in accordance with the Standing Order appli- 
cable to workman concerned in such dispute alter, 
in regard to any matter not connected with the dis- 
pute, the conditions of service applicable to that 
workman. Now it is seen that the respondent has 
taken action only under Section 33(2) (a) of the 
said Act and that before taking that action the res- 
pondent has also issued the notice under Section 9A 
of the said Act as seen from Ex. Rl, Under the cir- 
cumstances of this case it cannot be said that the dis- 
pute raised by the petitioners is directly connected 
with the dispute pending in I,D. No. 30 of 1967 so far 
as the nature of work done by them is concerned and 
all that can be said is that they are only concerned in 
the dispute. 

8 The petitioners have now filed Ex. PI to show 
that some of the other Tunnel Mazdoors who were 
also transferred along with the petitioners as per the 
Order dated 15th September 1968 and who also filed 
a petition before this Tribunal were again given their 
old jobs. So far as this aspect of the matter is con- 
cerned it is contended by the respondent’s represen- 
tative that because at that time there were some 
vacancies of Tunnel Mazdoors those persons were 
employed in those vacancies and that if any further 
vacancy arises in the usual course the petitioners 
also would be transferred as Tunnel Mazdoors and 
that dimply because the respondent had entered into 
an agreement with other workmen as evidenced by 
Ex. PI it does not mean that the petitioners also should 
be taken as Tunnel Mazdoors even if there are no 
vacancies. I feel that there is force in this contention. 
If any vacancies of Tunnel Mazdoors arise certainly 
the petitioners may approach the Management and 
certainly the Management would consider their claims 
in view of the fact that the Management itself had 
taken back some of the workmen who had been trans- 
ferred as piece rated fillers along with the petitioners. 
On a consideration of the material placed before me 1 
am satisfied that in this case there is no violation of 
the provisions of Section 33(1) (a) of the said Act. 

9. It is also contended by the learned counsel for the 
petitioners that there is no provisions for inter-chang- 
tng the workers as seen from Chapter XV of Volume 
I ef Central Wage Board for the Coal Mining Industry 


unless there is an agreement. A perusal of Chapter XV 
of Volume I of the Central Wage Board for Coal 
Mining Industry, which deals about interchangeability* 
it is seen that the Board had observed that these are 
Management practices and that these are matters om 
which both the workers and the employers should 
»PPly their mind so as to evolve better and more 
rational methods of production. First of all in the 
present case it cannot be said that there had been any 
inter-change of any particular work. It is because 
there has been no work for Tunnel Mazdoors in order 
to find work some of the Tunnel Mazdoors were trans- 
ferred as piece rated fillers. As per the Standing 
Order 15, already referred to, the respondent can 
transfer the employees from one section to another 
section. So there ia no force in the contention that 
the respondent cannot transfer the petitioners as piece 
rated fillers. * 

30- The next contention urged by the learned 
counsel for the petitioners is that daily rated mazdoors 
would be getting their wages daily whereas piece 
rated workers will get wages only If there is work and 
that on days when there is no work they would not 
be paid any wages and so there is uncertainty so far 
as the wages are concerned and so the present trans- 
fer is to the prejudice of the petitioners. So far as 
the wages are concerned, the evidence of P.W. 1 ia 
that as fillers on some days they get wages and that 
on some days they won’t get any wages at all. The 
evidence of R.W. 1 is that as between category I and 
piece rated workers, piece rated workers get more 
wages as fillers. He has filed Ex. R3, which is the 
copy of the statement prepared for the year 1971 show- 
ing the payment made to seven of the petitioners m 
fillers. He says that Ex. R3 shows that on an average 
they were getting Rs. 9/- to Rs. 10/- per day. He als* 
filed Ex. R4, which is the copy of the similar state- 
ment for the year 1970 in respect of the same seven 
persons and he says that it also shows that on aa 
average they got Rs, 9.00 per day. Though according 
to P.W. 1 for fillers job no one will be given any dally 
rate on days when there is no filling work and that 
they would be treated as absent on those days, R.W* 1 
says that on the days when there is no work shown 
to the fillers they are paid breakdown wages of 
Rs. 8.00 including allowances. He also says that dear- 
ness allowance is paid to piece rated workers and that 
piece rated workers get also pushing and tub allow- 
ance, lead allowance and lift allowance which allow- 
ances are not given to daily rated workers. He also 
says that piece rated workers also get intensive bonus 
which is not given to category I daily rated workers. 
He also says that the fillers have to work only for 
three hours for getting their normal wages of Rs, 11.00 
to Rs. 12,00 per day whereas daily rated workers have 
to work for eight hours and that the piece rated 
workers can come and go away at any time after 
filling all the tubs. He also says that at Shanti Khani 
there are no difficulties for fillers for wage earning. 
He also says that there is a practice in this colliery of 
posting of daily rated mazdoors as piece rated fillers. 
Now it is suggested to him that it is only temporary 
daily mazdoors who used to be sent as piece rated 
workers as a practice and he has denied the sugges- 
tion. So from the evidence of R.W. 1 and Ex. R3 and 
R.4 it is seen that on an average piece rated workers 
get more than the daily rated tunnel mazdoors. So 
there no forc'j in the contention of the petitioners that 
there is any prejudice caused to the petitioners in view 
of this transfer so far as wages are concerned. 

11, It is next contended by the learned counsel for 
the petitioners that the coal fillers job is more 
hazardous than the work of the tunnel mazdoors and 
\o its transfer is only to the prejudicp of the petitioners. 
P,W. 1 says that the difference In the work of tunnel 
mazdoors and fillers is that there is no danger when 
working as tunnel mazdoors since there are stones 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


1545 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/ VAIS AKH A 2, 1894 


alround, whereas there is danger in doing fillers work 
because the coal from the coal seams often fail down 
in lumps when doing filler’s work, It Is suggested to 
him that the danger is the same in both kinds of work 
but he has denied this suggestion and according to 
him there may be only some minor accidents for tunnel 
mazdoor but that there is more danger in doing filler 
work, According to him since category I is a lighter 
job he and the petitioners want this job though they 
may be getting less income, R.W, 1 says that if tunnel- 
ing work is completed the tunnel mazdoors have to go 
and work as fillers that the risk is there for all those 
who work as tunnel mazdoors and as fillers, that when 
the petitioners were transferred as fillers they did not 
receive any complaint from them stating that their 
working as fillers is dangerous and that during the last 
four years there was no danger to or loss of limb so 
far as the petitioners are concerned. He has denied 
the suggestion that the risk is more for fillers. So 
from the evidence of R.W.l it is seen that it is usual 
to transfer the tunnel mazdoors as fillers whenever 
there is no work for tunnel mazdoors and that the 
riftk id there both for tunnel mazdoors as well as fillers 
and that no complaints were received from the peti- 
tioners all these years. From the evidence I am satis- 
fied that it is only for the purpose of this case the 
petitioners want to contend that the risk is more for 
fillers than for tunnel mazdoors. When it is seen 
that both tunnel mazdoors as well as fillers have to 
work underground the risk must be the same and it 
cannot be said that there is more risk for fillers and 
less risk for tunnel mazdoors. So I do not find any 
force in the contention of the petitioners that the 
risk involved in the filler's job is more than the risk 
involved in the tunnel mazdoors job. 


12. As already stated it is clear that it is only 
because of want of work for tunnel mazdoors the 
respondent had to transfer the petitioners and others 
as fillers and even in the notices Ex, R1 it had been 
specially mentioned that the tunnel workers could not 
be continued as there was no tunnel work. This fact is 
admitted even by P.W. 1. If the petitioners had satis- 
factorily proved that there was tunnel work available 
on the date when they were transferred as fillers and 
that inspite of It the respondent had want only trans- 
ferred the petitioners as fillers then there may be a 
case for the petitioners for getting the order of trans- 
fer set aside, But it is not the case of the petitioners. 
The evidence in this case shows that it is because of 
want of tunnel work that the petitioners, instead of 
being sent home, were transferred as fillers, 


13. For all the aforesaid reasons I hold on this point 
that there has not been any contravention of Section 
33(1) (a) of the said Act and that the order dated 15th 
September, 1958 transferring the petitioners as piece 
rated fillers is not liable to be set aside. 


14. In the result the petition is dismissed. In as 
much as it is represented by the respondents’ repre- 
sentative that it w only for want of work for tunnel 
mazdoor that the petitioners had been transferred 
as fillers, the respondent can consider the question of 
transferring the petitioners as tunnel mazdoors as 
and when vacancy arises for tunnel mazdoors job. 


Award is passed accordingly. 


Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him 
and corrected by me and given under my hand and 
the seal of the Tribunal, this the 23rd day of Febr- 
uary, 1972, 


APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE : 

Witnesses examined for Witnesses examined for 
Petitioner. Respondent. 


P.W. t : Shri Kandunuri R.W. i: Shri R, Richard. 
Lingaib. 


Documents exhibited for Documents exhibited for 
Petitioner : Respondent. 


Ex,P. I Memorandum of settle- 
ment dt. 19-4-71 und e r 
Rules 58(4) of the I, D. 
Act between the Manage- 
ment and its workmen 
at Befiampalli. 


Bx. R.L : Form B notice at 
11-5-68 issued by Bellam 

f alli Collieries unde 
e c . 9A of I. D. Ac 
in respect of some work- 
ers with effect from 
5-6-68. 

Ex, R. 2 : Form E notice dt, 
H-JF1968 issued by 
S.C, Co. Ltd., BcHampalli 
under Section 9A of 
I. D. Act to some work- 
era with effect from 
2X-6-1968. 

Ex. R. 3 ; Statement showing 
the number of musters 
and wages of workmen 
for 1971. 

Ex, R. 4 : Statement showing 
the number of musters 
and wages c a med by 
workers for 1970. 

(Sd.) P, S. Ananth, 
Industrial Tribunal 
[No. 7/21/67-LRII-(i) .] 


New Delhi , the 11th April 1972 


S.O. 978.-~In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Hydera- 
bad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Singarenl Collieries! 
Comoany Limited Ramagundam Dfvision-II, post 
Office Godavari Khanl (Andhra Pradesh) and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 29th March, 1972, 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL) 
AT HYDERABAD. 


Present: 

Sri P, S. Ananth, B.Sc., B,L„ Chairman, Industrial 
Tribunal, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Industrial Dispute No. 40 of 1971 


Between: — 

Workmen of Singareni Collieries Company Limit- 
ed, Godavari Khani. 

And 

The Management of Singarani Collieries Company 
Limited, Godavari Khanl. 

Appearances : 

Sri M. Bhasker Rao, Secretary, Singarani Collier- 
ies workers Union, Godavari Khani, for work- 
men. 

Sri M. Shy am Mohan, Personnel Officer, S,C. Co. 
Ltd-, Bellampally for Management 



1546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 18M 


[Part II — 


AWARD 

The Government of India Ministry of Labour* Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
^Employment) by its Order No. L/21 12/6/71 -LRH 
dated 3rd May, 1071 referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tribunal, namely: — 

^Whether the management of Godavari Khani 
No* 0 Incline of Messrs Singarani Collieries 
Company Limited is justified in placing Shri 
Gangarapu Odely, Tyndal in Category IV as 
per Wage Board recommendation, if not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled and from 
what date?' 1 

This order was received by this Tribunal on 17th 
May, 1971 and it was taken on flic as Industrial Vis- 
pute No. 40 of 1971 and notices were issued to the 
parties* 


2* In the claims statement it is contended that Sri 
Gangarapu Odely has been doing the job of Tyndal 
Supervisor since more than three years in Godavari 
Khani No, 0 Incline that he should be given Category 
V a 3 per the Wage Board Recommendations, that 
though be was informed that promotion would be 
given ho was not promoted and so he should be given 
new Category V with effect from 15th August, 1967. 


3. The contentions of the respondent in Us counter 
In short are these:— Sri Gangarapu Odely was work- 
ing ns gang mazdoor prior to 15th August, 1967 and 
he was ' designated as Tyndal. Subsequent to the 
Implementation of the Wage Board Recommendation 
all the mazdoors who were in pre-wage board catego- 
ries of III and IV working underground will be given 
new Category IV and designated as Tyndal vide settle- 
ment arrived at before Deputy Commmissloner of 
Labour (Central). As the problems relating to the 
Tyndal 3 were thus solved, the claim relating to the 
Tyndals under the claims statement put forth by the 
Union should be created as having been settled earlier 
to the implementation of the Wage Board Recommen- 
dations. The management did not have any category 
of workmen with the designation of Tyndal. Shri 
Gangarapu Odley had been designated as Tyndal and 
he was correctly given Category IV (new). The claim 
was made by the Singareni Collieries Workers Union 
by their letter dated 2Mh July, 1969 for the first time 
after a lapse of two years from the date of the Wage 
Board Recommendations. So It is only a belated plea. 
The claim of the workmen for promotion as Tyndal 
Supervisor is not bassed on facts. He neither worked 
as Gang Muccaddam nor did he enjoy old Category 
V. So his claim is not maintainable. It is not correct 
to say that he was promised any promotion. 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL) 
HYDERABAD 

In the matter of I.D. No. 40/71 

Between: 

The workman represented by the Singareni Colli’ 
eries Workers’ Union, P. O. Godavare Khani, 
Dist. Karimnagar, A.P, — Workman. 

And 

Singareni Collieries Company Limited— Employers, 

Memorandum of Compromise filed by the Parties 

The Government of India had referred the case of 
Shri Gangarapu Odlely, Tyndal, Gdk, No. 6 Incline in 
respect of his promotion as Tyndal Supervisor. 

2. The Government of India made, vide their letter 
No. L/21 12/6/71 -LRII dated 3rd May, 1971, the follow- 
ing terms of reference. “Whether the management of 
Godavari Khani No. 6 Incline of Messers Singareni Col- 
lieries Company Limited is justified in placing Sri 
Gangarapu Odely, Tyndal in category IV as per the 
Wage Board Recommendations? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled and from what date?*' 

3. To have continued cordial relations the Manage- 
ment and the workman representative Union, have had 
actual discussions and arrived at the following settle- 
ment on 21st January, 1972, 

Terms of settlement: 

(i) The management agreed to promote Sri Gan- 
garapu Odely. JTyndal, Category IV, Gdk. No. 6 
Incline to work as Tyndal Supervisor in Cate- 
gory V with the commencing wage viz. R*. 
7.95 with effect from 1st January, 1972. 

(ii) This fully and finally settles the claim of the 
workman. 

4. This is agreed to as a special case. This case will 
not be cited as precedent and no future claim from 
anybody at any mine will be entertained. 

6 The parties, therefore, pray that the Hon'ble 
Tribunal be pleased to pass an award in terms of this 
compromise. 

The parties, as in duty bound shall ever pray. 
Dated at Godavari Khani this day of January, 1972. 

Fos Workmen Eov Employers 


4. When the matter was posted for enquiry on 24th 
January. 1972 a representation was made that talks oi 
compromise was going on and |so the matter was ad- 
journed to 1st March, 1972. On 1st March, 1972 the 
narties illed a memorandum of compromise in regard 
to the terms of settlement and the terms of compro- 
mise were recorded. In view of the settlement arrived 
r it an award is passed in terms of the settlement 
arrived at A copy of the memorandum of compro- 
mise so shall be attached to the award. 


Dictated to the Stenographer, transcribed by him 
and corrected by me and given under my hand and 
the seal of the Tribunal, this the 10th day of March, 
1972. 


Sd L N. Hhaskar RAO, 

Secretary, 

S inguren I Collieries 
Workers Union, 

Godavari khani. 


Witnesses : 

t, Sd /- Ob. SrebramMuRTHy. 
2 . Sd/' S.T. Ravindran, 


1. Sd/- P. S. Temurnakar 
A gent, S.C. Co. Ltdo 
Ramagunduro Division II. 

2 . Sd/- P. Papa Rao, 
Divil, personnel Officer, 
S.C. Co. Ltd,, Ramagun- 
dum Division. 


Sd'- M. Shyam Mohan, 
Personnel Officer, 
Bellampalli. 


(Sd.) P. S. Ananth, 
Industrial Tribunal. 


| No, L/21 1 2/6/7 1-LRII.J 




Sbc. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


i nr 


S.O. 979.-— In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 
2), Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the North Bhaggatdih Col- 
liery, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad, and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Gov- 
ernment on the 4th April, 1972, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) AT DHANBAD 
Present: 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 28 of 1970 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S.lO(l) 
(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to North Bhaggatdih Col- 
liery, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad. 

and 

Their workmen. 

.Appearances: 

On behalf of the employers. — Shri S. S. Mukher- 
jee, Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen. — Shri B. Lai, Advo- 
cate. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad 30 th March, 1972/10 th Chaitra , 1893 Saka. 

AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to North Bhaggatdih Colliery, Post Office 
Jharia, District Dhanbad and their workmen by its 
order No. 1/25/63-LRII, dated 11th January 1965 as 
corrected by order No. 1/25/63-LRII, dated 17th Nov- 
ember 1965 referred to the Central Government In- 
dustrial Tribunal. Dhanbad under Section 10(1) (d) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication 
the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto. The schedule is extracted 
below: 

Schedule 

“Whether the quarry miners of the North Bhag- 
gatdih colliery are entitled to any extra re- 
muneration for coming on loaded trucks from 
the working faces to the depot and for un- 
loading coal at the depot, and, if so, at what 
rate and from what date?” 

2. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad registered the reference as Reference No. 13 
of 1965 on its file. Employers as well as the workmen 
filed their statements of demands. While it was pend- 
ing before the Central Government Industrial Tri- 
bunal, Dhanbad the p-voo-dm:; xv t~nsferred to 
this Tribunal, by the ('■ ■' <!. . 1 ' by its order 

No. 8/25/67-LRII, date.: i '1... . 1! «7 Mider Section 

33B(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Conse- 
quently, the reference is renumbered on the file of 
this Tribunal as Ref. No. 13 of 1967. The workmen 
were represented by Shri Raj Bhallab Prasad, Secre- 
tary, Khan Mazdoor Congress and the employers by 
Shri M. M. Agarwalla, Superintendent. By consent of 
the workmen, Exts. Ml to M5 were marked for the 
employers. On behalf of the workmen 4 witnesses 
were examined and Exts. W.l, W2 and W3 for the 
workmen and Ext. M6 for the employers were marked. 
On behalf of the employers 5 witnesses were exa- 
mined and Exts. M7 to M10 were marked. On this 


material and after hearing arguments of parties this 
Tribunal made the award and submitted under S. 15 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 on 27th May 1968, 
holding that the quarry miners of North Bhaggatdih 
colliery were not entitled to any remuneration other 
than the one which they had already received for 
coming on loaded trucks from the working faces to 
the Depot and unloading coal at the depot. On the 
Writ petition, CWJC No. 546 of 1908 preferred by the 
workmen under Articles 22o and 227 of the Constitu- 
tion of India, Hon’bL High Court of Patna passed the 
order on Oth September 1970 setting aside the award 
and remitted the case back to this Tribunal for a 
fresh hearing and disposal in accordance with the 
directions given in the order. On receipt of the order 
the reference is renumbered as Ref. No. 28/70. Work- 
men were represented by Shri B. Lai, Advocate and 
the employers by Shri 3. S. Mukherjee, Advocate. 
MWs 3 and 4 were recalled end further cross-examined 
and WW.l is recalled and further examined. On 
behalf of the employers two more witnesses were exa- 
mined and Exts. Mil to M16 and W.4 and W.5 were 
marked. 

3. According to the schedule of Reference as correct- 
ed by the Ministry on 17 th November 1965 the affect- 
ed workmen were “quarry miners”. The base of the 
workmen is that the affected workmen were in fact 
quarry miners of North Bhaggatdih colliery (herein- 
after referred to as the colliery), that in that capa- 
city they were entitled to get the wages of category 
V workmen for the work of loading coal as per the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal's award and that for 
coming on the loaded trucks from the quarry to the 
depot and for unloading the coal at the depot they 
were entitled to extra remuneration at 0.50 paise per 
ton. According to the workmen each truck was of 
the capacity of 5 tons and that the extra remunera- 
tion claimed by them should be paid with effect from 
1st January 1957. The employers denied that the 
affected workmen were quarry miners or that they 
were entitled to wages of category V or to any extra 
remuneration for coming on the loaded trucks from 
the quarry and unloading coal at the depot. The em- 
ployers also denied that the trucks were of 5 ton 
capacity; according to them the capacity of each of 
the trucks was 3 tons only. In their additional 
written statement filed on 18th December 1965 the 
employers had taken a preliminary objection that the 
affected workmen not being “quarry miners”, the 
alleged dispute mentioned in the schedule of Refer- 
ence did not exist at all and, as such no adjudication 
can be made by the Tribunal. Among the various 
directions given by the Hon’ble High Court while 
remitting the case to this Tribunal for fresh hearing 
and disposal, the first one is “to go into the question 
as to whether the Reference in regard to the quarry 
miners could be answered as it was or whether the 
expression ‘quarry miners’ used in the terms of Re- 
ference with reference tp the other facts and circum- 
stances of the case could mean the workmen con- 
cerned, namely the workmen who were truck loaders 
and were unloading the trucks”. In view of this direc- 
tion I would like to dispose of the priliminary objec- 
tion raised by the employers at the outset. 

4, In order to appreciate the preliminary objection 
the facts which gave rise to the Reference may be, 
stated in brief. On 2nd August 1963 the Secretary, 
Khan Mazdoor Congress, Jharia addressed a letter, 
Ext. W.l to the Regional Labour Commissioner (C) 
Dhanbad representing approximately 22 workmen in 
the loading and unloading work of trucks at the col- 
liery and raiding an industrial dispute claiming that 
they were to be paid the wages of category V work- 
men and extra remuneration at -/8/- annas per ton 
for going on the loaded trucks and unloading coal 
at the depot and for breaking the blasted coal at 
-/4/- annas per ton. They had also mentioned that 
the capacity of each of the trucks was 5 tons. In this 



1548 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL. 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


letter of 2nd August 1963 the Secretary, Khan Maz- 
door Congress had described the affected workmen 
us “quarry miners (loaders)”. In the comments sub- 
mitted by them dated 1st November 1963, Ext M7 the 
employers had specifically stated that the affected 
workmen were not “quarry miners (loaders)” as 
claimed by the union but they were really “truck 
loaders”. In the comments it was also mentioned that 
the very same demands raised by Khan Mazdoor Con- 
fress through their letter dated 2nd August 1963 were 
raised by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh previously 
through their letter dated 14th December 1962, Ext. 
M0 and Ext M8 an<J in respect of the demands, in- 
clusive of the present one, the Conciliation Officer had 
submitted his failure report, Ext. M3 on 23rd January 
1963. Demand No. 1 therein was for the rate of the 
loaders and it was dropped and the demand No. 3 
which was for the alleged separation job had already 
been referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, 
being Reference No. 27/63. After the comments of 
the employers were received and necessary enquiries 
were made, the Regional Labour Commissioner (C) 
Dhanbad submitted his failure report in the present 
case, Ext. Ml on 16th November 19G3, Alter some 
correspondence between the Central Government 
and the parties on 26th February 1964 the Central 
Government addressed letters, Ext. M2 to the parties 
stating. ‘The Government of India do not consider 
the dispute fit for reference to an industrial tribunal 
tor adjudication because the workmen in question 
were actually truck loaders and were being paid at 
par with wagon loaders as provided for in paragraph 
158 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal’s decision”. 
Then, with reference to the above letter of the Cen- 
tral Government the Secretary, Khan Mazdoor Con- 
gress addressed again a letter Ext W.2 to the Cen- 
tral Government to review its decision and to refer 
the dispute to an Industrial Tribunal for adjudica- 
tion, asserting in clear terms that the workmen were 
only “quarry miners” and they should not be treat- 
ed on par with "wagon loaders” in terms of the 
various awards. Ext. W.2 was again followed by the 
Secretary, Khan Mazdoor Congress by a letter, Ext. 
W,3 addressed to the Labour Minister directly stating 
therein that “the contention of the Ministry that these 
workers are ‘truck loaders’ is most arbitrary, illegal 
and irreallsable”. Then the Central Government by 
its order No. 1/25/63-LRII, dated 11th January 1965, 
being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists be- 
tween the parties, referred the dispute mentioned in 
the schedule for adjudication. The schedule was as 
follows: — ■ 

"Whether the workmen of North Bhaggatdih col- 
liery are entitled to any extra remuneration 
in view of the system adopted by the man- 
agement of the said colliery, for unloading 
coal at the depot, and, if so, at what rate and 
from what date?” 

It is to be remembered that previously the Ministry 
had categorically held that the affected workmen were 
“truck loaders” and not “quarry miners”, that the 
union protested and asserted that the affected work- 
men were “quarry miners” and not “truck loaders” 
and that inspite of the assertion by the union the 
Ministry referred the question in general terms, with- 
out using the terms “quarry miners” and “truck 
loaders”. But consequently, by the order No. 1/25/ 
•3-LR-II, dated 17th November 1965 the Ministry 
chose to substitute the schedule above referred to by 
the following echedule: — 

“Whether the quarry miners of the North Bhag- 
gatdih colliery are entitled to any extra re- 
muneration for coming on loaded trucks from 
Ihe working faces to the depot and for un- 
loading coal at the depot, and, if so, at what 
rate and from what date?” 


My object in discussing the abova documents at suck> 
length is to show that the Ministry as well as the 
parties did not use the terms “quarry miners” and 
"truck loaders” in general and loose sense referring to 
the affected workmen but they have used these terms 
after due deliberation strictly as technical terms as 
they are defined and used in various Awards. The 
workmen assert that the affected workmen are en- 
titled to extra remuneration for coming on loaded 
trucks from the working faces to the depot and for 
unloading coal at the depot in addition to their wage® 
of category V in their capacity as “quarry miners”. 
In view of the replacement of the previous schedule 
of the Reference by the present schedule the Intention 
of the Ministry also is clear that the affected work- 
men should be considered only on “quarry miners”. 
In view of the general terms of the previous schedule 
of Reference it was possible to determine that cate- 
gory of the affected workmen with reference to the 
other faces and circumstances of the case as incidental 
to the matters in dispute and also to decide if the} 
were entitled to extra remuneration for doing any 
additional job. But it cannot be done now. If on 
the material on record it is found that the affected 
workmen, workmen who come on loaded trucks from 
the working faces to the depot and unload coal at 
the depot, are not “quarry minors”, no adjudication 
in terms of the Reference is possible, 

5. The term "quarry miners” is referred to in para 
11B of the Decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal 
and it is pointed out that the difference between the 
“quarry pick miners” and “quarry miner” is that the 
coal which the latter cuts has been loosened by ex- 
plosives. As per para 125 of the Decision a “cimiry 
miner” is to be paid the wages and remuneration fixed 
for category V workman for cutting and loading 1-2/3 
tubs, he, 60 eft. of coal per shift on the same terms as 
are fixed for the quarry pick miner. Ft follows from 
the above that a '‘quarry miner” has fo cut coal and 
also to load. It is now to be seen from the evidence 
on record if the affected workmen also were cutting 
the coal. Ext. M4 are the form B registers for the year 
} 963, 1964 and 1965, They are statutory registers 
maintained under S. 48 of the Mines Act and Rule 78 
of the Mines Rules. These registers do not show any- 
one as a “quarry miner”. They have the names of 
lorry loaders. At si. no. 75 the name of Dinbandhir 
Tamria is found who is examined as WW.4. In the 
very first sentence of his deposition, WW.4 says that 
he is working as a loader in the quarry. Ext. M5 are 
the attendance registers also for the years 1963, 1964' 
and 1965. They are also statutory registers in form 
maintained under S.48 of the Mines Act and Rule 78‘ 
of the Mines Rules. In these registers also designa- 
tion of no workman is shown as “quarry miner” but 
lorry loaders are there. The name of WW.4 appears 
at si. no. 20. From the very begining the case of the j 
employers has been that the affected workmen were- 
only doing the job of loading trucks and nothing more 
and that according to the system of work at the 
quarry there were three groups of workmen (i) those 
whose duties were to make holes, after biasing to 
break the lumpy coal and then push the lumps down 
the slope of the quarry; (ii) hazri kamins whose 
duties were to pick out the shales from the cut coal 
which had settled at the quarry bottom and also to 
accumulate the slack and (iff) the "loaders whose duty 
was to load the coal into the trucks and thereafter un- 
load the same at the depot. MWs 3, 4 and 5 have 
tendered evidence in support of the above system. 
MWs 3 and 5 are categorical in their statement that 
the truck loaders did not do any job other than load- 
ing and unloading trucks. MW 4 is one of the truck 
loaders and MW. 5 is a overman Jncharge ^inc^ 18 
rears. Out of the 4 witnesses examined for the vmrk 
men. MW.l is the Secretary of the Central Khan 
Mazdoor Congress and he was never a workman. 
WW.2 is the general secretary of Khan M^door Con- 
gress and he was also not a workman. WW.3 was a 



Sic* 3 (li) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1072/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1549 


driller and WW.4 one of the truck loaders. Of course, 
this witness WW.4 says that the loaders also were 
breaking big chunks of coal falling down owing to 
blasting. The evidence of solitary witness WW. 4 is 
not supported by any material and it is contradicted 
on oath by MWs 3, 4 and 5. No reason is shown why 
this evidence of this solitary witness should be pre- 
ferred to the oral evidence of MWs 3 to 5 and form B 
and form D statutory registers, 1 am inclined to 
accept the evidence of the employers as true. Conse- 
quently, the affected workmen, who come on loaded 
trucks from the work faces to Ihe depot and unload 
coal at the depot, as they do not cut coal at all, do 
not . answer the definition of “quarry miners 1 ' as laid 
down in paras 118 and 125 of the Decisions of the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal and they cannot be held 
as “quarry miners”, Shri B. Lai, the learned Advo- 
cate for the workmen has argued that the affected 
workmen should be treated as “loaders” and the Tri- 
bunal should proceed +o determine their extra remu- 
neration. But as “loaders” the affected workmen have 
no case at all. The Ministry has already found 
through the letter, Ext. M2 thnt the dispute between 
the affected workmen as loaders and the employers 
was not flit for reference. As I have already pointed 
out, the case of the parties and of the Ministry mak- 
ing the reference has been that ihe affected workmen 
were “auarrv miners”. To treat the affected work- 
men as “truck loaders” is to change the very basis 
of the Reference and to adjudicate a new case which 
is not referred, In this view I find that the reference 
cannot be answered. 

0. The award is made accordingly and submitted 
under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer, 
Cen, Govt. Industrial Tribu- 
nal (No, 2) Dhanbad, 

[No. 1/2 5/63 -LRU- (Part.) .] 

Nev) Delhi, the 12 th April 1972 

SO 980.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1 9470 . the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Hydera - 
bad, in the industrial dispute between the emnlover.- 
in relation to the management of Andhra Cement Conn 
pany Limited, Viiayawada and their workmen, which 
was received by the Central Government on the 29th 
March, 1972. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, ANDHRA 
PRADESH, HYDERABAD 

Present: 

Sri P. S, Ananth, B.Sr , B.L., Chairman, Indus- 
trial Tribunal Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad. 

Industrie Dispute No. 51 of 1971 

Ber WEEN : 

Workmen of Andhra Cement Company Limited, 
Viiayawada. 

AND 

Management of Andhra Cement Company Limited, 
Vijayawada, 

Appearances: 

Sri K. Sntyanarayana, Advocate, for workmen. 

Sri Srinivasamurthv, Hony. Secret nry of the 
Federation of Chamber of Commerce and In- 
dustry, for management. 

AWARD 

The Government of India Ministry of Labour, Em- 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 


and Employment) by its order No. L-29011/13/71-LR 
IV date 24-6-1971 referred the following dispute under 
Section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Act) for adjudi- 
cation by this Tribunal, namely: 

“Whether the action of the management of 
Messrs. Andhra Cement Company Limited, 
Viiayawada in paving to the re- employed 
workers of Jayanthipurnm mines wages lower 
than those they were drawing at the time of 
their retrenchment in June. 1968, is justified? 
If not, to what relief ar c the workmen en- 
titled?” 

This reference was taken on file as Industrial Dis- 
pute Nq. 51 of 1971 and notices were issued to the 
parties. The petitioners arc + he workmen of Andhra 
Cement Comnanv Limited Viyivawada represented 
bv their Trade Union Andhra Decent Company Em- 
ployees Union, Vijayawada and the respondent is the 
Andhra Cement Company Limited, Viiayawada. The 
petitioners filed their claim-. statement and the res- 
pondent filed its count ir. 

2, Thp contentions of the petitioners in their claims 
statement in short are these: The petitioners in all 
41 workmen whose n'vrws are given in the list append- 
ed to the claims stnt*»m rt nt arc the affected workmen 
whose wages have been fixed lower than the wages 
drawn by them on the eve of retrenchment. 
These 41 workmen are among the total of 
66 workmen retrenched in June 1908 from the 
Jayanthipuram mines In which they were working 
since a long time, All the said workmen were re-em- 
ployed in the said mine with effect from the dates 
shown in the statement. The basic wages of 41 out 
of them have been fixed lower than the basic wages 
paid to them by the respondent. Out of the said 41 
workmen, 40 have been employed in the same cate- 
gory of mazdoors. At the time of retrenchment each 
of them was drawing Rs. 62.68 ps., per month but 
on re-employment their basic wages were fixed at 
Rs. 6110 ps., thus reducing the basic wage by about 
Rs. 1 66 ps., per month resulting in consequential 
variations of Dearru ss allowance. H R A. etc. The 
remaining 41st workman was working as a tally clerk 
and he was drawing a basic wage of Rs. 74.00 but on 
re-employment his basic wages is fixed at Rs. 70,00. 
The petitioners are entitled to the basic wages paid 
1 o them on the eve of the last retrenchment since they 
have been rc -cm ployed under Section 2?H of the said 
Act. 

The respondent’s contention in short is this; There 
cannot be any industrial dispute regarding the scales 
of wages at which an employee Is to he recruited and 
no industrial dispute can arise regarding such scales 
and wages. It is open to the management to enter 
into contract of employment with the workers who 
are to be employed. On this ground alone the refe- 
rence should be rejected, Tn the month of June, 1968 
owing to adverse trade conditions, one of our Lime- 
stone Mines at Javnnthinuram was closed on 24^6- 
1968 after laying off the workmen for a very long 
period. Consequently the workers as shown in the 
counter were retrenched. The retrenched employees 
received all dues and their accounts were fully and 
finally settled. Full retrenchment compensation was 
paid as provided for under the said Act. Later in the 
last week of November 1968 the quarry was tempo- 
rarily reopened and the retrenched workers were 
given option for re-employment as fresh temporary 
hands. 30 retrenched workers und two tally clerks 
were taken in the first batch in November, 1968, 
Subsequently as condition improved the mine was 
expanded and more retrenched workers were re-em- 
ploved as fresh temporary hands. At the time of 
retrenchment out of 59 'E 1 Grade Mazdoors, 40 were 
drawing Rs. 62.66 ps., as their basic wage end the 
remaining 19 were getting Rs. 61.10 ps.. as their basic 
wage. While they were re -employed as fresh hands, 



1550 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA* APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part li- 


the company offered them the minimum of "E” Grade 
which is Rs, 61.10 ps., as basic wage which is the 
starting of the “E” grade. Similarly out of 
two tally clerks, one tally clerk was drawing Rs. 74.00 
at the time of retrenchment and when he was re-em- 
ployed he was offered a fresh temporary hand for 
which Rs. 70.00 is the starting point of the tally clerk 
grade. The right of the management to recruit lahour 
la unlimited and there cannot be any industrial dispute 
regarding the choice of the personnel at all. Section 
25-H of the said Act provides an exception that in 
case the management were to recruit labour Jn th" 
posts for which the retrenchment has taken place, the 
retrenched worker should, lie given 'preference. It 
is under these circumstances the retrenched workers 
had been chosen. The retrenched workers cannot 
claim any new rights than a new employee can have. 
The preference Is only for the purpose of appointment 
and has no relation to the salary which he drew at 
the time of retrenchment. The retrenched worker got 
the entire benefit and it is because of the retrench- 
ment the payment of compensation is provided for 
under Chapter V-A of the c aid Act and Section 25-H 
only provi-dos an additional benefit in the choice of 
personnel. He has no right whatsoever for the pay- 
ment of salary which he was getting at the time of 
retrenchment. 

4, No oral documentary and evidence was adduced. 
Only arguments were addressed. The dispute that is 
referred to is whether th* action of the management 
of M/s. Andhra Cement l imited, Viiayawada in pay- 
ing to the re-emploved workers of Jayanthipuram 
mine the wages lower than thosn they were drawing 
at the time of retrenchment in June, 1908 is iustified 
find if not to what relief are the workmen entitled? 

5, It is common ground that the petitioners were 
working in Javan thipuram mine and that they were 
among 66 workmen who were retrenched in June, 
1968 due to adverse trade conditions and that subse- 
quently they were also re-employed along with the 
remaining workmen who were retrenched. Tt is also 
common ground that out of the petitioners who were 
41 In number. 40 are ma /.doors who have been draw- 
ing wages of Rs. 62. 66 ps.. each and that the 41st peti- 
tioner was working as a tallv clerk drawing Rs. 74.00 
at the time of retrenchment and that when they were 
re-employed they were treated as freshers and the 
wages were fixed for the mazdoors at Ks. 61.10 ps f , 
and that for the tallv clerk the pay was fixed at 
Rs. 70.00 per month. Now the contention of the peti- 
tioners is that sinev they were re-emploved as per 
the provisions of Section 25-H of the mid Art wages 
ought to have been fixed at the same rate that they 
were paid at the time of retrenchment but that res- 
pondent is not entitled to treat them ns freshers and 
fix the wages of a fresher. The contention of the res- 
pondent is that the petitioners were given full re- 
trenchment compensation and that they w 're- 
employed only as fresh temporary hands and that the 
re-employment docs not mean that they should be 
given wages which they were receiving at the time 
of retrenchment and that Section 25-H of the said Act 
only provides an additional benefit in the choice of 
personnel. Now it lias to be seen whether the action 
of the management can be justified. 

0. Though in the counter on^ of the contentions was 
that the reference itself should be reiected since there 
cannot be anv industrial dispute regarding the scales 
of wages at which an employee Is to be recruited and 
that no industrial dispute can aris* regarding scales 
and wages, no arguments were addressed bv Ihe 
learned counsel for the respondent as regards this 
contention and so it has to bp taken that this objec- 
tion is not pressed. So there is no need to consider 
this contention contained in the counter. 

7. As already stated the petitioners were retrench- 
ed due to adverse trade conditions and that when 
the respondent wanted to employ fresh hands, the 


petitioners were offered re-employment, Under Sec- 
tion 25-H of the said Act where any workman is 
retrenched and when the employer proposes to take 
into his employ anv persons, he shall, in such manner 
as may be prescribed, give an opportunity to the 
retrenched workmen to offer themselves for 
employment and such retrenched workmen who off^r 
themselves for rc-emnloyment shall have preference 
over other persons. Now it is contended the 

learned counsel for th 0, respondent, that all that this 
section provides is that retrenched worker should be 
offered re-emnlovmcnt but it does not state that, when 
they are re-emploved they should bp gi^en the wages 
that they w r ere drawing at the time of retrenchment 
and so the contention of the petitioners that they 
should b? granted wages which they were receives 
at the time of retrenchment cannot be *ustained He 
relied upon the derision reported in INDIAN HTTME 
PTPR Co, v HHTMARAO HAT JR AM GAJBHTYA 
(1005 f TT1 TXJ nage 4021. In that oa^e their Lord- 
ships observed that all that of Section 25-H provides 
for is preference to retrenched workmen in ^oirin? 
employment, but dne* not snv +hat the re^cmnlmm'ient 
should he on t,Tm former terms rmd conditions of spr- 
vlce and that it had been the intention of the 
legislature, it would have been made n specific provi- 
sions t,n that effect A perusal of thL also 

chowi* that the d'ydtdnn reported in INDIAN HUME 
RIPE Co. v LABOUR COURT 0903 fll T. J T page 
7701. now relied unon hv the learned counsel for th Q 
petitioners was referred to and that it was dissented 
from. 


8. The learned counsel for the petitioners relied upon 
the decision reported in 1903 fTl LLJ, page 770 where- 
in their Lordships considered the Question as to whe- 
ther an employer is hound to re-employ workmen on 
the same condition as to wages a* woq prevailing be- 
fore retrenchment nnd after considering the conten- 
tion^ pu+ forward before thc-ir Lordships bv both 

parties, their Locdshio* finally held that th- retrench- 
ed workmen wore entitled to cl mm the pn^-o emolu- 
ments as at the time of retrenchment and + ha1 the 
employer is not at liberty to change the w ,,f e struc- 
ture at his wdl The learned counsel for thp neti- 
fionnr 0 ah'o robed lionn the decision reported : n MUL- 
LER & PHTPS ( INDIA 1 v. THEIR EMPLOYEES' 
UNION 0 907 GO LLJ. page ?22L Ip that case the 
retrenched workman was not given preference. The 
Labour Court dirpH-efl lhat the retrenched workman 
be deem end to be re -employed and that he shall also 
be entitled to Ihe wage s ho was drawing nt Ihe time 
of retrenchment His T.ordsHn held that, no infirmity 
wns found in thp order of Labour Court So far as 
this decision is concerned the learned counsel for the 
respondent contended * hat nothing has been r ntino- 
ed specifically in that, decision about re -employing the 
workman on the wages that he was drawing at the 
time of retrenchment and so this doe* not help the 
pelhioners hut the contention of the learned counsel 
for the p a Rtioners is thrfi the Labour Court had held 
that the rel renohod r mloyee should he give wages 
as hu> was drawing nt the time of retrenchment, nnd 
that Ibis order was unheM. Even If the r?ontenti n of 
the learned counsel for 1 l m respondent that this deci- 
sion docs not apply to the facts of the present ca^o 
as accepted still thcr^* is the decision reported m 1903 
(T) LLJ, page 770, No doubt It is contended by the 
learned counsel for the respondent that this yio-.v of 
t^eir Lordships was dissented from by the Bombay 
High Court in the ]at Q r decision renorhr\ r l in 1905 (IU) 
TJX nngc 40? but so far as this Tribunal is concern- 
ed it has to follow only the decision of the Andhra Pra- 
desh High Court in ^reference to the decisions of 
other High Courts, the principle laid down by 

their Lordships in (II LLJ, page 770 applies to 

th^ facts of the prcr°nt case and so the respondent 
ought to have given them the wages that they were 
drawing at the time of retrenchment. So the action 
of the management in equating them with the new 
comers Is not iustified. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 I&i 


9, For all the aforesaid reasons, I hold on this re- 
ference that the action of the management in paying 
to the rc-employed workers wager. lower than those 
they wore drawing at the time of their retrenchment 
L not instilled and that the eetitionr rs are entitled 
to draw wages that they wer: draAdng at the time 
ol retrenchment. The respondent is directed to pay 
each of the inazdoors ail Ks. (U 60 ps . per month and 
the tally clerk at Rs. 74.00 per month Horn the res- 
pective dates ol their re-emylevment and the peti- 
tioners would be entitled to recover the difference in 
the wages upto date as fixed now. 

Award is passed accordingly. 

Dictated to the stenographer, transcribed hy him 
and corrected by me and given under my bund and 
the seal ol tue Tribunal this me 23rd day of Decem- 
ber, 1971. 

(Sd.) F. S . Anantii, 
industrial Tribunal. 

[No. L-29011/13/71-LR-IV.J 

S.O. OKI, — In pursuance of section 17 ol the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 ol 1947), the Central 
Government hereby publishes the following award ol 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, 
in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Hirakun Colliery, Post 
Office Nctuna, District Furulio and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on 
the 10th April, 1972, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUS- 
TRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA 

Reference No. 05 of 1971 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of Hira- 
Khun Colliery. 

AND 

Their workmen. 

PRESENT: 

Sri S. N. Bagchi, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers. — Shri Shy am Sunder 
Kejriwal, Personnel Olllcer. 

On behalf of Workmen. — Shri Panchanan Baner- 
jee, Concerned workman. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mine, 

AWARD 

The Government of India, in the Ministry of Labour, 
and Rehabilitation (Department ol Labour and Em- 
ployment), referred the following dispute vide Order 
No. L-1912/U //71-LR.I1 dated 0th July, 1971, between 
the employers in relation to the management o± Hira- 
khun Colliery and their workmen, to tins Tribunal, 
for adjudication: 

“Whether the action of the management of Ilira- 
khun Colliery, Post Office Neturia, District 
Purulia in dismissing Sri Panchanan Bancrjee, 
Lamp Chargeman, with effect from the 6th 
February, 1971 is justified? If not, to what 
relief is the workman concerned entitled?" 

2. The workman disputant can sign his name in 
English. I explained to him the contents of the com- 
promise petition which has been filed before this Tri- 
bunal today, m Bengali as the workman knows Ben- 
gali. He understood the contents of the petition 
and unequivocally accepts the terms which in my view 
appear to be fair, just and equitable. The compro- 
mise is, therefore, recorded and an award be made ac- 


cordingly. Let the petition of compromise form part 
of this award. This is my uward. 

(Sdj) S. N. Bagchi, 
Presiding Officer. 

Dated 4th April , 1972. 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER CENTRAL 
GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

Reference No, 85 of 1971 

Employers in relation to Hirakhun Coliiery. 
and 

Their Workman. 

Shri Panchanan Banerjee. 

Petition of Compromise 

With prejudice to the respective contention of the 
parties above named, the parties have amicably set- 
tled their dispute on the following terms. 

Terms of Settlement 

1. That the concerned woikman will accept his 
dismissal from his services with effect from 6th Feb- 
ruary, 1971 as justified. 

2. That the Employers will pay to the concerned 
workman within 15 days after the publication of the 
Award an ex-gratia payment to be computed on the 
basis of 15 days wages per year of continuous ser- 
vice. 

3. That the concerned workman will have no future 
claim whatsoever with the Employers and will never 
ask for re-employment also. 

It is humbly prayed that the Honrable Tribunal 
be graoiuosly pleased to accept the compro- 
mise as fair and reasonable and be pleased to 
pass an Award in terms of the above settle- 
ment. 

For the Workman . For the Employer, 

Panchanan Banerjke, (Sd.) Illegible, 

Agent, 

Hirakhun Colliery. 

Certification * 

It is certified that the concerned workman Shri 
Panchanan Banerjee has signed in my presence after 
the above settlement was read over and explained to 
him by me, 

(Sd.) B, josin, Advocate, 
Dhanbad, 

Certi/ication. 

It is certified that the Agent of the Colliery has* 
signed in my presence after the above settlement was 
read over and explained to him by me. 

(Sd.) B. C. Mukherjee Advocate, 

Dhanbad. 

[No, L/l 912/67/7 1-LRIL] 
KARNA1L SINGH, Under Secy. 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

Neva Delhi , the 17 th April 1972 

S.O. 982. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints the 23rd day of April, 1972 as 
the date on which the provisions of Chapter IV 
(except sections 44 and 45 which have already been 
brought into force) and Chapters V and VI [except 
sub-section (1) of section 76 and sections 77, 7B # 79 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA- APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKRA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


1552 


and 81 which have already been brought into force] 
of the said Act shall come into force in the following 
areas in the State of Mysore, namely: — 


SI. District 

Taluk 

Hobli 

Village 

1 , Raichur 

Koppul 

Hithanhal 

Revenue 

Circle. 

HusahiFilli 

Village. 

2 . Raichur 

Koppal 

Ilhhrjihul 

Revenue 

Circle. 

Muni rah ad 

falling within 
T.I3. Project 
area. 

3 , Raichur 

Koppal 

Hithanhal 

Revenue 

Circle, 

I-Tolcniuilnpur 

Village. 



[No. F. 

S. 38013(8) /71-1H,] 


DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy, 

(«HT TO tYtFTR f^Tirr) 

Hi* fTOft, 17 TOH, 1972 
ERo HTo 982. — TOHlff TFST TOl TOlfaTO 
1948 ( 1948 ^.34)^ STRT (l) *fY STOTT ( 3) 
f RT HfTOff TT sTO TOY %rTO TOT t^^RT 
23HHH, 1972 Yr TO TOY? YTO if fTO TOlY I faTOY 

STferiwi % HtTOT 4 (HR! 44 TO 4 5 Y TOr 3ft 
^ 3TT t) HR KSP 5 TO 6 (STRI 76 
*fYTO«IRT (l^TO^R! 77, 78, 7 9 HR 81 Y faTO 3ft 
11% $Y 5F[U gft HT ^ |) % TOTOJ TRR % fTO- 

fHfaTT *n*ff if sr^n ?m, hTO :— 

5FHFF fTO TTR^ flYTO TTT 


1. W^j 

t r^t 

ifWRlTO TO 




2. TUTfT: 

°?ft cc r^T fg^TR^T 

€V<> ?Y° sr'TOi 



hTOtNT 



tjTOihr 

3 . 

«Ft c TO f^HFT^TT 

TO 


HIH 



[TFSTT'FTo ^0-38013( 8) 7I-TO 0 Hit o'] 


'TtfTO %, mi HfTO I 


(Department of Labour ami Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the hth April 1972 

S.O. 983. — Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Air India and their work- 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Sche- 
dule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Cfintr.il Government considers it 
desirable to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 


Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for ad- 
judication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, consti- 
tuted under section 7A of the said Act, 

Schedule 

(i) Having regard to the duties, functions, res- 
ponsibilities and status of Manager-Flight 
Engineering, Manager-Technical Training, 
Chief Flight Engineers, Chief Technical Ins- 
tructors and Technical Instructors, ; whether 
the claim of the Indian Flight Engineers’ 
Association for a common interest seniority 
list of holders of the above-mentioned posts 
and the posts of Flight Engineers for purposes 
of conversion training and mutters incidental 
thereto is justified? 

Cii ) Whether the appointments of Sarvashri U. 
Mehrotra and C , M. Mathews to the posts of 
Technical Instructor and subsequently to the 
posts of Chief Technical Instructor are pro- 
per and justified under the promotion proce- 
dure laid down by the Corporation? If not, 
to what relief, if any, urc the other affected 
Flight Engineers entitled? 

[No. L-11011/7/72-LRJII] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 

(HR TO TYtTTR f*TT»T) 

hTOi 

*lf ftTO, 6 HHU, 197 2 

TO' ?TT° 98 3 ; — TO YTOn HTOR YV TO £ fa 

totto Jr fTOTOd fwff % TO Jr tt;er 
^ fTOrr tT tuto ftTOTO TO to% TOfrT % TO t^f 
TOrYfTO fHHR faejTOT ft ; 

TO to toTO tot -tot fro? anTOoprr 
% fHti Pt*Tto tortt nraTO HTOrff t; 

to:, m, HRnfro froR TOrfaTO, 1947 (1947 

"FT 14) HR! 1 0 HtT 3TORT (l) h (h) SRI 

jtot TOTOf "Fi srTO tot |tt. Tout *k+k q;tprt 

HTO To HfufWT ^ STRI 7-*F % WTO TOlI 

TOYfTO wf^TOT, Tprf *Ft HraWu % TO MTO 

totY I 1 

( I ) TO?TO — THUR TOfaTO, TO?SFF — TrTOY 
TOtctu Tj’ii thtt? ^TOfrY, to tffTOY 

HR fiTOTO toTOfY % TOTOT, fRTT, ^FRTTfTOY TO 

TOTO *FT TOR TOY |IT, TO #STO TOR? TOflflT# 

toYThYto hft, tooto >Kf % hYt Trq-fr^Ti nfrou hYt 
^htI nnpfTO TtotY % spjYto Y fror ptHtoY 
% q^f % arrolr *ffr totto ttot ^ ^ 1 g^Y w 
TOHYfHH I ? 

(II) TO H#MY iftl TfVo Too 

Yt tpfhYfV tfjYto hV totot Fpir d-FflYY sf[Y?ff 
% TO tt TOjfTO TOft ?rt HfaTOrri nfTO if? 



Sec. a (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTl OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1094 1553 


■ RTjf^cT 5^7 fTFTtfTH I ? crfa Tfft, 7t ?F7 

tm* < f%7 77 ?W 3717 731 % f%H S777N %, Tfc 

ffr, f^T rr I ? 

[*i° rr^-o-1 101 1 / 7/7 2-tT^o 5TT7° HI] 
77 0 I p \ o TT5?Er7T77, 5 T3“ ;r 7'f73’ I 

MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 
(Department of Steel) 

i Nl'IO Delhi y The T <,th April 3 1072. 

S-O- 984. ■ — In partical modification of the Notification of the 
! Government of India, in the Ministry of Steel and Mines No, 
VfcrO, 2588 dated the 25th Juno J971 the following cnl lies under 
Cithers’ after S. No* 78 may be added in the Schedule to the 
Notili-j’ition of the Government of India, in the Ministry of SiclK 
Mines and Heavy Engineering No. T525/I1SS, COMM/IKON 
AND S'fEEL 2(cUlated the 20th April, xofSj, 


t. 2. 3. 


79. Regional Iron and Steel Con- All clauses of the Iron 

tr oilers- and Steel (Control; 

Order. 

80. Deputy Regional Iron and io> tt, 12, 22* 23. 24. and 

Steel Controllers and Assis- 28 

tarn Regional Iron and Steel 
Controller. 


[No. SCO Ej ' 7 I/ 71 ] 
A.N. RAJAGOPALAN, Dy. Secy* 

?ftT *5TT7 771^7 

(fHTTR fRRm i 

7$ femt, 15 1 972 

TTHo Wto 9 74. — 7T77 TR77T, ?FTRr«ftT »IT7 

RtTfpi 25 ^r, 1971 *Tfa^77r 77 0 ?tto 

2598 srifjrf *n*rtspr Tmr grr *nr7 r<a.k, mri7 

*717 sfi7 vrrtt faTm 29 stfsr, 1954 , 3 % 

sifR^RT fl'wr 1525 /wwiT srk 2 ( 7 ) 
% qftfw % *P7 WT 7 8 % 7771^ W % *17177 f7*7- 
srfafeTr mf 717 1 

1 2 3 


7 9 tfpfcr Ht^T TV mTFT fTTcTTr HtWT «fl7 tpipt 

(ftwp) 7T%7 
3% Rsft HTTITT 

80 ffcfrr 7Tf7 ?rk ?W7 37 - 10, 11, 12, 22, 

fTTeTTI *flT $?fV7 Ht^l 23, 24 wk 28 
77 ^PTRf m 73? 


[7° trrio Rto (l) — l(7)/7l] 
C£° t(7o ^riftSRR, ?T37 P 9 4 I 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 14 th April 1972 

5.0. 985.— In pursuance of para (n) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as intro- 
duced by S.O. No, 627 dated 8Lh March, I960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the 16^5-1972 as the date on which the 
Measmed Rate System will be introduced in 
DHRANGADHRA Telephone Exchange, Gujarat Circle, 

[No. 5-6/72-PHB (12) . J 

7317 faflUT 

( Rfr^H art » j 

7f 14 19 72 

'7T35T H<3TI 9 35. — Divfl 77731 7W 6 27, few 
8 7P7, 1960 57 D 7PJ fair ipi 'TrUltT 7T7 f777 1951 
% f737 4 34 % -70? Ill % 771 (3l) % TT^TTR YPP-3T7 

R^rfa^iJPP % S7t7wr # feriTi 16 - 5-72 

sDirPTfr 77 7HTfr huj; 77 Ptw ferr % 1 

[Ro 5-6/72-ftoT^ofro ( 12 )] 

5.0. 986.—In pursuance of para (a) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as intro- 
duced by S.O. No. G27 dated 8th March, 1960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the 16-5-1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
B ARAM ATI Telephone Exchange, Maharashtra Circle. 

[No. 5-12/72-PHB(6) .] 

WTJ5T tfwr 9 86. — puxft STT%W 627, fcliTT 
8 7T7, 1960 SRI feTT 7% MKdl7 7T7 19 51 

*ft n*DT 434 % III % TU ( 71 ) % ST^JRK 3171-717: 
R^rfR.TTTT 7 TRTH^ft 27^7 R fTTRTT 16-5-72 

7 5TRlfoi7 37 5( 1J I i'll 3177 77 f7777 Pf,u( RTT ^ I 

[Ro 5-12/72 — efrot^ro^to ( 6)] 

5.0. 987, — In pursuance of para (a) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as intro- 
duced by S.O. No. 627 dated 8th March, I960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the J 6-5-1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
AMBUR Telephone Exchange, Tamil Nadu, Circle. 

[No. 5-30/72-PHB (5) ] 

sniNt 98 7. — ?n^W RWT 627, f^THR 

8 RT3, 1 960 3RT 77 717^7717 1777 1951 

% f77Tr 434 % III %T71 (tt) % 3T71- 

fTR TT|Tf7%76 7 7H77 7^17 7 f,7T7> 16-5-72 

7 5T7lf%7 37 7<71ffl 777^ 77 f7?77 f%7T | I 

[Ro 5-30/72-^to3’7o^o ( 5 )] 

S.O. 988. — In pursuance of para (a) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, as intro- 
duced by S.O. No. 627 dated 8th March, I960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifics the 16-5-1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 



1554 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


(Part II— 


MANNARGUDI Telephono Exchange, Tamil Nadu 
Circle. 

[No, 5-39/72-PHB (6) .] 
WiRR HRRJ 98 8 , — pEipfV strife fen 62 7, fefe 
8 RT#, 1 96 0 3TTT HIR ffe rR 'flR.fM RR. feR 1951 

% fro 434 jfr *r*s jii % rtt ( 4 ?) % rrrr: m- 

cTR Rfjlfew 4 RRRljft %'S- R feTR 1 6 - 5 - 7 2 

^ RRlffe R 5 TH/fe RPj; RRR RR fR?RR fRTT | | 

[RWr 5 - 30 / 72 -RfeR sfe ( d) ] 

S*0* 989, — In pursuance of para (a) of Section III 
of Rule 434 of Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, us intro- 
duced by S.O. No. 527 dated 8 th March, I960, the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby 
specifies the 16-5-1972 as the date on which the 
Measured Rate System will be introduced in 
BHUVANAGIRI SAX Telephone Exchange, Tamil 
Nadu Circle connected to Chidambaram Exchange, 

[No. 5-30/72-PHB(7).] 

H. C. MATHUR, 
Director of Phones (E). 

PRo Rio P 4 jftRriR RRTT 98 9 . — RlTRf Rife RJsRr 
6 27 , few 8 RTR, 1960 4 RT RTF feT RC[ RRcHr 
RR fRRR 1951 % f 4 RR 434 % iii % fol (Rr) % 

SPJRR TW-RR Rj-Rfew R ffe c RRR Wife R RWR 
RfRRRTR RRTH % Rmfek W{ PRRT ITRRRR if feTR 
16 - 5-72 WHlWlR RR fenft RTF feT RR fRRTR 

fen 1 1 

[RRRT 5-30/72/^0 feo ^to — ( 7 ) ] 

RRO R>o RPJT, 

[few RtR ($) 1 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
(Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi , the 5th April, 1972 

S.O. 990,— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 of the Constitution, the Pre- 
sident thereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Central Civil Services (Classification, Con- 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1965, namely; — 

1 (1) These rules may be called the Central Civil 
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) First 
Amendment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into froce on the date of their 
publication In the Official Gazette and shall remain 
inforce during the period of operation of the Procla- 
mation issued under clause (1) of article 352 of the 
Constitution on the 3rd day of December, 1971. 

2, In the Central Civil Services (Classification, Con- 
trol and Appeal) Rules, 1965, after sub-rule (3) of 
rule 3 , the following sub-rule shall be inserted, name- 
ly:— 

" (3A) Notwithstanding anything contained in 
these rules, where any civil Government ser- 
vant in the Defence Services Is temporarily 
made subject to the Army Act, 1950 (46* of 
1950), or the Navy Act, 1957 (02 of 1957), or 
the Air Force Act, 1960 (45 of I960), these 


rules shall continue to apply to such civilian 
Government servant in the Defence Services 
and* for the purpose of discipline, he shall be 
dealt with under these rules unless the appro- 
priate authority, for reasons to be recorded 
in writing, is of the opinion that sterner action 
is called for and directs that he be dealt with 
under the Act he is subject to*”. 

[No. F. 7/0/72-Ests (A) .] 

S. KRISHNAN, Dy. Secy* 

RffelR RfaRTHR 

(frrfw fa mu) 

feffeft, 5 RRH, 1972 

TT» 9 9 0— -RCJRfR, RfWTR % RJffe 30 9 % 

RWF RRT RRH SlfeRT 'FT RRTF Rife §tt feVR Rffe 
RrT ( mffeRT, few Rk RTfR ) feR, 1 9 6 5 R Rk 
RTF RRtETR RRR % ffe felH rr^Rr RRTR 

t, 

1. ( 1 ) fe fmnff RR RIR fefe JRffe RRT (fef- 

RW ; few Rk Rife ) RRR feftRR fRRR^ 
1972 fen I 

( 2) R 7TRTR R RRRR1R fe RTfe RR RRR feT 
Rk 3 ffeWL 19 71 Rt rFr«R T % R^jfek 
3S2%*sTf ( l) % Rife fet ^ 

pferr % mfe rtT Rfer % fern spfr 

r$r i 

\ 

2. fefe fRfer feR (RFfer% fefe Rk Rife) 

fe-R, 1965 R, feR 3 41 UR-feR (3) % RTRl^ 

feRfeffe RR-feRRR RR:RITfe felT RT^RT, RR^ 1 — 

“ ( 3R) fe feRt R R ? TFRR fife RTrf % fe 

Rf fe W RTTRR % fRRt fRfaFRRR RR- 
RTkRWRTtRRr RfnfRRR, 1950 ( 1 950 
RR 46), RT RfRfeR, 1957 ( 1957 

RR 62) , RTRfRfel RFnfRRR 1950 ( 1950 
RR 4 5 ) % RRtR RTRTRT RR R fR7RI RRT 
Rk R feR w rriri % rr fRfaferR 
RTRRTT RW RR Rf'J Rk RR71TRR % 
RkRR % ffe RR W fefRR RRRRf % 
fRR RRfRR RlfslRTk fe" RR RRT R (jt ffl 
RkfeR Rlkfe RTRRW | Rk R^ kkl 
fe Wr fR7 fRR RfnfeR %RRTRR|feR% 
RRTR RRR RRRT RTR, fR feR'f % Rife 
RR W RR?T RTRT RIfeT l” 

[^o~7/6/72/?RTRRI (^7)] 
URo UR Rffe I 



Sue. 3(H)] 


155 5 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


MINISTRY OF WORKS AND HOUSING 
(Directorate of Estates) 

New Delhi, the 22nd March 1972 

9.0, 991.— In pursuance of the provisions of rule 
45 of the Fundamental Rules, the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Allot- 
ment of Government Residences (General Pool in 
Delhi) Rules, 1963, contained in Part VIII, Division 
XXVI-B of the Supplementary Rules issued With the 
Government of India, Finance Department letter No. 
104-CSR dated the 4th February, 1922, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Third 
Amendment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 

2. In the Allotment of Government Residences 
(General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963, in rule 317-B-0, 
In sub-rule (1) the word “annual” shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 12033 (2)/72-Pol (II),] 
R. B. SAXENA, 

Dy. Director of Estates (Policy). 

frffefr, 22^,1972 
*To*rTo 9 91 — TT ^ ' -lPd 1 , JJFT 

45 % it myr svnr % fan fwr 

% w 104 ^r«> fro 4 'Fyrtt, 1922 % 

3 nft feT qir f^rmfr % ?tft 8 -jtwft 26-sr 

ir 0 f^nmr ftft (f^ft irnraTyr 

1 9 6 3”^'^ ^TWfETT 

f : — 

1- ( 1 ) it fwr f^ITC WR 

if ^IWK'JI ffffa ’TSftSf^r f^T=PT, 19 72 ^ 31T I 

(2) $ st^-t p(m 1 

2. *n^rrft fynw (ftrfr if TTraro 

gy) 1963 ir, sn-’sr-G fwr ( 1) 

if, ''#np” ITT*? ^ St ^TT I 

[*T° 'FTO 1 2033 ( 2 )/ 72— 2 ] 



(Directorate of Estates) 

New Delhi, the 15 th April 1972 

S.O, 992. — In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Un- 
authorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officers men- 
tioned in column (1) of the Table below, being the 
officers equivalent to the rank of gazetted officers of 
Government, to be estate officers for the purposes of 
the said Act, who shall exercise the powers conferred, 
and perform the duties imposed, on estate officers by 
or under the said Act within the local limits of their 


respective jurisdiction in respect of the public pre- 
mises specified in column (2) of the said Table. 

The Table 


(O 

(*2) 

Designation of the Officer 

Categories of Public premises and 
local limits of jurisdiction. 


i. Assistant Registrar 
In Ran Institute of 
Technology, Kanpur. 


2. Executive Engineer, 
In Ran Institute of 
Technology, Madras. 


Premises belonging to or taken 
on lease or requisitioned by, or 
on behalf of the Indian Institute 
of Technology, Kanpur, which 
ore under its administrative 
control in Kanpur District. 

Premises belonging to or taken on 
lease or requisitioned by, or 
on behalf of the Indian Institute 
of Technology, Madras, which 
arc under its a 1 mini strati ve cont- 
rol in Madras District. 


3. Institute Engncer, Premises belonging to or taken 
In Ran Institute of on lease or requisitioned by, or 
Technology* Bombay. on behalf of the Indian Institute 
of Technology, Bombay, which 
are und r r its administrative cont- 
rol in Bombay District. 


4. Executive Engineer, Premises belonging to or taken 
Indian Institute of on lease or requisitioned by, or 
Technology, Kharag- on behalf of the Indian Institute 
pur. of Technology* Kharagpur, 

which are under itn adminis- 
trative control in Midnapore 
District. 


5. Town Administrator/ 
Manager Sub-contracts/ 
Estate Officer, Hin- 
dustan Machine Tools 
Limited, I II 
Machine Tool Fac- 
tories Estate, Banga- 
lore-31. 

6. Superintendent Plont/ 
Estate Officer, Hin- 
dus rati Machine Tools 
Limited, ITT Machine 
Tool Factory Estate, 
Pinjore, District Ann 
bala, (Haryana State). 

7. Estate Officer, Hin- 
dustan Machhic Tools 
Limited, IV Machine 
Tool Factory Estate, 
Kalamass^ry, fKcrala 
State). 

8. Town Administrator/ 
Estate Officer, Hindus- 
tan Machine Tools 
Limited, V. Machine"! 
Tool Factory Estate, 
Pal an a gat- Township, 

Hyderabad-37- 

9. Personnel Manager/ 

Personnel Officer, Hin- 
dustan Machine Tools 
Limbed, I &I I W at eh 
Factories Estate, 

Bangalore-ai, 

to. Personnel Manager/ 
Personnel Officer, Hin- 
dustan Machine Tods 
Limited, III Watch 
Factory Estate, Zaina- 
kote fSrinpgar-BarnmulIu 
Highway), Srinagar 

(J&K). 


Public Premises ownej or ac- 
quired or hired bv the Hindus- 
tan Machine Tools Limited 
which are under their res- 
pective administrative control. 



[Part 


T.5 5<5 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


(i) 


(2) 




tt. Financ e and Develop- 
ment Officer, Piiniub 
Univergiry, Chandigarh. 


T2. Regional Director, 
Employee s’ State Tnsu- 
ran ce, Cor porati on , 

West Bengal Region, 
Calcutta. 

13. Regional Director, 
Employees’ State Insu- 
rance Corporation, 
Uttar Pradesh Region, 
Kanpur. 


t 4. Medical Superinten- 
dent, Emolovees’ State 
Insurance Hospital & 
Director (M c dicaL 
Employees’ State Insu- 
rance S cheme, Delhi. 


t 5. Administrative Officer 
Employees' State 

Insurance Corporation 
Delhi. 


Premises belonging to or taken 
on lease by and und p r The ad- 
ministrative o' pi ml of l h c 
Punjab University, Chandigarh, 
situated within the revenue 
limits of Chandigarh district. 

Public nremisCs owned nr a coin red 
or hired by the Employees* 
State Insurance Corporation 
and which arc the limits of the 
State of West Bengal. 

Public premises owned or acquired 
or lured by the Employees* 
State Insurance Corporation 
and which arc under bis nd- 
ministrptive control within the 
Emits of the Suite of Utinr 
Pradesh. 


Public premises owned or acquired 
or hired by the Employees* State 
Insurance Corporation and 
which are under his adminis- 
trative control within the limits 
of the Union Territory of Delhi 
(for the quarters allotted by 
the Medical Superintendent, 

Employees’ State Insurance 
Hospital and Director (Medi- 
cal) Employees’ State Insu- 

rance Scheme, Delhi). 

Public premises owned or acquired 
or hired bv the Employee^ State 
Insurance Cor pi 1 alien and which 
are under bis administrative 
control within the limit of 
Union Territory of Delhi (for 
quarters allotted bv the Admi- 
nistrative officer). 


[No. F. 2 lO! 2 ( 5 )/C 7 Toh IV. 1 


(*r ft r*r famspr) 


qrrsrTTTf tt tttwr ttt qfvrtf % spot wh 

qfsjTrfTcrr pqrftq Tfomt 


(1) 


1. rf^TT, 

WTTrft^r qtsrtfqqff 
TT-TH, TT^X | 


2 . TTif'TTTTT T, 

'flTTqfq srt^'TU'fft 

TWTq, TSTTT I 


3. flfwH, 

'fTTCftq sfaftfqqff 

TTWH, I 


4 - 

•*TP 7 ftq qimfqqff 
rr?«TH, qriTp i 


(2) 


*rP 7 fto srteftfnqff ttptr, 

tttjt: % m ?nr, qr 

sqqft sftr § q£ tt: f^rtT ijtt : 
m srfaq^T Tfirn: sft 

c - 

TPfjT fsrT if thirt- 
faT fqqq<JT if % 1 

vTTvrrr jftsftfqqft swr, 
JTffPT % qr jttt, tt 

* 3TTTf TTH! T Tf TT faTT qtr 

itt srfaiT$cr Tftqr 3 ft qrrrT 
fq^r if STTT SP?|TTrfqT 
faqsm if ^ I 

qreftq sfWtfinft tfwrr, 
q-pqf % qT 3?i% ircr, m 
smff sfk ff qf <tt far 
qr srmjfq ^ 

qpqf fqsT if TTTT TUirTT- 

fqr fqq^-'q tf 1 1 

?TTTFfrr qtatfTrff h^pt, 
nrfqjT % qT UTT 5T 7 1. ITT 
TTTt sfrr % q| 'tt faw tt 
qr qfrrp- rsft 

fTTwrycftr^r iT qrrq 

fTT fqqqw if f I 


qf fcqff, 1 5 qqq, 1972 

TT° ?ito 992. — tttt qfrqr ( ?r ftr- 
‘HtfiTqf Tt q^TTfr) qferfqqq, 1 971 ( 1 97 1 TT 40 ) Tf 
ottt 3 tttt infqqqf tt qrfnr TVf frr, 
qf% qft qr-rnfr % ^q ( 1 ) if qfqq qfqqnfqff Tf, m 
qq+fT ‘tt rnrTfqq Trfwqrrfyff qff fqr Trqq^q srpET^rnfr 
%, qqq qfqfqqq % qafmf % fqrr qrtp>T yrf!mfvff % 
^iftfq^aKr fqqqq 5ft (2) 

if fqfqfq^: qTp qfwt r qft if, wff mj'i qkmtqrr 
qif ?qr?frq Tffqnff % qffrr qfErfq^' jpt in 
wff ; T 'srrsrqTfTiff qft, st^tt TifqqqT qn - qqTq qr^if 
TT TfTTTfTT TT TTTrq T^T I 


5 . TTTqTlTTTT/^TTffqqi ) 
TTRTT/TFTqr Trfq- ) 
Trff, ff?|TTTT qqffq ) 
dHTfrrfiTiT, 1 ttV. 2 ) 

WffT -31 I ) 

6 TfjRT OTtWT/TFTqT ) 

mTTTTT, ffT^TTTT ) 

TTfrq fqrfTiT, ) 

Tv 1 

JTTffr 'fcrft ) 

pTsffT, fTTTTT srtiTP-rr, ) 

(^ 77 rmT Tnq) 1 ) 



Sec. 3 (11) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1072/VAISAKHA 2, 1804 


1557 


(0 


( 2 ) 


7. ITPT 5 T srfqqnfe 

qfeq 

fefife, 4 qfeq Sq 

qfe qqqr- 
jiW (%T?r rrwr) 

8. ^PTC JpnT^PP TH^TST 

Wfirerft, 

*rsftq i?M fefeq, 

5 qfeT S5T 

qmrqqr 

q*qT, |TW?~37. 

0 . qqfep ST^SRI /<t> ( f*T‘ 4> 
STfenfe fyfWW 
Trfn fVi r*i C.-S , 

i «ftr 2 qrq 
tjfe, qqfer- 3 1 . 

10. qqfe sranRr/qqfw 

srfsmft, f^J^TPT 
TPlfPT SHT fqfq^s, 
3 qiq qfe, 

^r^ld (sffer- 

? I T PI<?d T 

sfrqqq (wj sfe 

VW)t) I 

11. fq^r tf\? fwrq srfa- 
qqfr, feq fq?q- 

felTqq i 


1 2 . £feq few, qfe 
■qrft Ti^r qrqr fqqq, 
qferqr sfeiq 
^r^rTT 


1 3. SUfDf 

^rr€t tt^t ^Vrnr f^rmr, 
3T17 sfel «fe 
'PPT^T I 


^ sffe 'rf’srr ffer qq 
5*qiq TT^fDT fefq- 

TTSET^rf^l 5Tl^llr 
3PT ffe^ ’xTfe ffeiT qqT 

| qr fefe qtfeqr q m f, 

sftr 5ft sq% sfe 

f srwmf^p fqqqq if | i 


5- 


I 

J 

qqrrq f«rwf<iiK^, ^#Ptf % 
qT 3TPTT q^ qT q^ 
5jftT qq% qEfefe Orq^rr- 
sftq qfTHT *r tr 5 ft qtfe 
feT qft TnTFT ferfer % 
qfeT feq I 

tfe sfta qferr fqq qr qfe 
=qrfr T T53i sffe fqqq qrr 
*qrffeq ft qT fisr^f qq% 
sm irffe ferr qqT t qr 
fspTRf tt feqr nur & srk 
jfr qfeifr qfeq ttw qfr 
fenfe % tffe: £ 1 
itil 5ffqr qffer f^r^r q r qfe 
■srrtt TT5T sfet fqqrf qq 

Tqrf IT? 1 q 1 5H fsF| 371% JTTI 

stffe fen w t qT fetnj 
qq fen qqr | nV 5 ft 3 tit 
qfe, Trsq %V fermf % 
'ntcn - nn% quiTqfq’T fefer 
n 1 1 


(1) (2) 


1 4 . f^rfeipp wfep, 
qfenrt -j-rt ^tur 
wwm sfk fqfepp 
(Rfewv), 
tffe fen, fent 1 


1 5 . sr^mm ?rfkqrrtt, 
qnr^Rt Trjq' qtm 
fenr, fe^ft 1 


sffe qfiTn: fer tt qnf- 
3 ffeT fem ^r 
fqi feq ^ qT 
am srifer ferr qqT | qr 
Pm. io qr fen qqr I trk 
5ft ffeft fe - n-jq^q qft 
femrf % »fer snrnr- 

fqr fefeq Jf | (gn 
fenfet % ffe 5ft 
snftw, qnrqrtt im ^fe 
wpmiH sfk few 
(fefew) qnfert nrq 
^tm fetq, fi?nt aiTj 
fefrq qft qf 5 f) 1 

fe qffe qfrsK ffe qr 

qnNrd TT 5 q #ferfemqq 
?qifeq # qT fef 3 TT 0 
5 nr sdfer f%qT qqT ^ qr 
fernr qn (fer qqr ft sftr 
5ft fq^*rft nq Tjqqtflq q>t 
femiT % «ffe smnr- 
fqq> fqqq’q 5 f ^ (qq 
fenfet % ffe 5ft qumr- 
fe nfqqqtt jnr wiqfe 
qft i ft) 1 


[qo q;io 2ioi2( 5) / 67 — •ftfq— 4] 

S.O, 993 .-^In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Un- 
authorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer men- 
tioned in column (1) of the table below, being gazetted 
officer of Government, to foe estate officer for the pur- 
poses of the said Act % and the said officer shall exer- 
cise the powers conferred and perform the duties im- 
posed on estate officer by or under the said Act, with- 
in the local limits of his jurisdiction in respect of the 
public premises specified in the corresponding entry 
in column (2) of the said Table. 

The Table 


CD 


(2) 


Special Director of Premise belonging to or taken cn 
Inspection, Director- lease or requisitioned by or on 
rate of Supplies and behalf of, the Central Government 
Disposals, CAL- falling within the terrin rial juri?- 
CUTTA. diction of Kulfi P.S. Sub-Regis- 

try Asansol and Court District 
Durdwan and which are under 
his administrative control. 


[No, V. 210iTr4V66-P0l.IL] 
P. N. KHANNAH, 

Deputy Director of Estates and Ex-Officio Under Secy. 



1558 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APK1L 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


VTo WT° 9 9 3- — ( RRTfaf R^RRtPlRt 
nft jfTO*ft) srfaPm, 1971 ( 1971 VI 40) RKT 3 

am mr urPRnfr ^ rrPt frpr gn, %^fPr rtrttt, Pt% tft 
RTTHT % RTPR ( 1 ) Rj RpTR RfspFrtt^, 5ft RTFTT TT 
/.MHfarT ^rftPRfr t, TH WfapTRR %JTRPTRT % frTO; 

ffpRT srfsrFrft Jr rr^itt PmryrTft t, *rk 
RRR ilf^Tfr^W^Rmr^FPPR ( 2 ) Jr ^r RWRIRt 
rPtPt Jr PrPrfW % rPwrt % rtJ Jr, spRft srfi^TftRT 
q?r pqiAPr RtRmr % rVt rrr srfsrPrRR arm rt rr% 
tnfPr mn srfaRntt «ft mr wlmt rrTr >PJrt nik 
^r tl wfarrPRr ^r tmr rtJrt i 


rtc# 


1 2 


f#r PrJfo^-PrW, %wPr htfr; % m ^r% am, 
'jfa 1 r,t Ptrctr rt r r|;tt P?ttt 

P^iTHR, ww | RTT R^RfR’jttajTP^ < ^ft 

jpcft^ft ° ^R ° ^RR- 
Tfcgt, RTmPr irk 
Ptot 'Rtrhm 
riTRrfiFF^srftrTTfTArT % 
SRpfa 5nJr I sfK aft RR% 
RmPrer Pm«T Jr % i 


[?fo crTo 2 1 0 1 1 ( 47) — 66— TtWoII] 

'fto iiro grri, 

rjT RT’m*f ; T%5 R> «At RRR STRT RpRR I 


DEPARTMENT OF SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 24th February 1972 

S.O. 994. — In pursuance of rule 45 of the Funda- 
mental Rules, the President hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules further to amend the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals (Allotment of Government 
residences for employees of Inspection Offices at Tata- 
nagar Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti) Rules, 1966, 
namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Directorate 
General of Supplies and Disposals (Allotment of Gov- 
ernment residences for employees of Inspection Offices 
at Tatanagar, Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti) Am- 
endment Rules, 1972. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In S.R, 317-R-17 of the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals (Allotment of Government 
residences for employees of Inspection Offices at Tata- 
nagar, Jamshedpur, Burnpur and Kulti) Rules, 1966, 
for sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be subs- 
tituted, namely: — 

tl ( 1 ) If the officer to whom a residence is allotted 
is removed, or dismissed, or retires, or re- 
signs, or absents himself without permission, 
from service, the allotment to him of the 


residence shall stand cancelled with effect 

from — 

(1) one month after the date of his removal 
or dismissal or retirement or resignation, 
as the case may be; or 

(ii) with effect from two months from the date 
of his absence from duty; or 

(iii) with effect from the dale on which the 
residence is vacated, 

whichever is earlier,” 

[No. 54/3/09-ESII.l 
S. S. KSHETRY, Under Secy. 

'jfa famR 

24mJt, 197 2 

9 94.-TTVrfr/ PTRRf%PTRR 45 % 

’WH*KWi Jr, rt i jPr sfk Ptrth RgrPr^rrmR (tttfrt r, 

TRitegT, RRT feft % PrfeTR TT R l Hm % 4 - 4 - 4 1 fVTl r 

RWfl D HI 4ft W MI3dd)PTRR, 1 966 Jf, sftr wt 
RRtRR ^RJr % fonfaftld PlRR 1 RRTTt f , R«rfg : — 

i. ( i) Jf Pm $Pr Ptrpt 

(srerm, why:, "■ rrt §?fr 
PrfteFR +wHifr % 4>4dir<4l' % fJpT *nRRpt 
via 140' tt rtrsr) wTstr Pm, 1972 

RT «Ti J| I 

( 2 ) Jr m^tR <NMd Jf ?m srmr 
rKPr Jr srgfr gr rt^r i 


<trt % Pr^tm rnfaRf % 'mHifGfir Jfr Ptr 
4i^i0 mrat *nm) Pm, i96« % ^o^ko 
3 1 7-STTT— 1 7 Jr, Pm ( 1 ) % pRT, PlHPdP gTr 
Pm JrPr<«rTpRr fw 5rrt[nT, : — 

"(l) JTl%^5rf«RT(tf^%4IMI4r^T^M'4d Pp^TT 
^itot |, Jtrr ^ grr fw ^ndT t ?rw T^cr 
gf -iiiai ^ WTT ddT Pidrr gt TTdT % vchii 

% ^TT | ?rw Pftt «njRpr % 
JfcgTfjR gPn | rft 3 % fw trt iqmw ^tt 
msr pTRRJd’K Tg TOIT TRlRT : — 

( 1 ) Jm Jr gTRT ^ti^r SHRT gt h 5PTTr 
Jrt Pm gr tot wiwtf ^Jr, 
#rfT vft P^rPr gr, ^fr nrfa Jr t^t 

TTOIrr ; RRRT 

(ii) ?TRft gjjfr Jr RTgrfsn; gPr ^ 

^r R^Pr RR ; RRRT 

(iii) rr rrrJPa- Jr Prr ^r rtrtr 

fOTT ^ITdT ^ 

Rt R^ gt l" 

[RW 5 4/3/6&-TRTRRT-2] 

fRR W m? Rf ;,R I 



Sec. 3 (il) ] 


1559 


THE GAZETTE 'OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 23 rd February 1972 

S O. 995. — In pursuance of clause (a) of section 
2 of the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Oaths and 
Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri K, R. Kukrcja, Assistant in the 
Embassy of India, Bahrain, to perform duties of a 
Consular Agent with effect from the 3rd February, 
1972 until the date of return of Shri S, N. Sharma, 
Charge d’Affairs to Bahrain from home leave. 

[No. T 4330/3/72.] 
PRAMOD KUMAR, Under Secy. (Consular). 


fafST R3TTWH 

^ fefr, 23 'FUTft', 1972 

995. tM'lRl'F Ut £ t'l tl 01 trfti T 0 (viH*) 

strfyfddh, 1948 % *3F?-2 RTTT (*fr) $ 
WJRUJr Jr, TOR, RTTR % UTl^dHRb a^R Jr 

*5fV %o SfRo R1T 3 'L/r-O, 1 9 7 2 iT, STf^tR 

Ji «f[ tTRo IfRo Turf % R$ 5TRRRR JT # Rl0«l 
ffiF, RTT Jppj RIRR % STlftEfR 

t I 

[tfw 4330/3/72] 

spftR JpTTT, WRT RfRR (+*ldvft) I 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES (ISPAT AUR KHAN MANTRALAYA) 

Department of Mine* (Khan Vibhag) 

Nero Delhi , the 25th March 1972 

S.O. 996 . — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the Ispat Aur Khm Mmtrlaaya (Khan Vibhag) No- 
S - 0 - 2310 dated the 17 th June, 1971 issued under sub-section (i) of Section 7 of the Coal Beating Areas (Acquisition and Development) 
Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government gave notice of its intention to acquire lands in the locality specified in the schedule ap, 
pended to that notification; 

And whereas the competent authority in pursuance of section 8 of the said Act hag made his report to the Central 
Government; 

And whereas the Central Government after considering the report aforesaid and after consulting the Government of Madhya 
Pradegh is satisfied that the lands measuring 106’ 12 acres (approximately) or 42-94 hectares (approximately), described in the schedule 
appended hereto should be acquired. 

NOW., THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (ij of section 9 of the said Act, the Central Govcrn- 
ment hereby declares that the lands measuring 106' 12 acres (approximately) or 42-94 Hectares (approximately) described in the said sche- 
dule should not be acquired. 

2, The plans of the ar c a covered by this notification may be inspected in the Office of the Collector, Sidhi, (Madhya Pradesh), 
or in the Office of the Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the Office of the National Coal Development Corporation 
Limited (Revenue Section), Darbhanga Houses Ranchi (Binar). 

Schedule 

GORBI BLOCK EXTENSION 
(Singrauli Coalfield) 

(Madhya Pradesh) 

Drawing No. RCV./45/71 

Dated 13-9-1971- 


(Showing lands acquired) 


SUB BLOCK - 1 


ALL RIGHTS 


S.No. Village Tahsil Tahgil District Area Remarks 

number 


1. Gorbi . , . Deogar . . , , . Sidhi 


Part 


Total Area : 17-50 acres (Approximately) 

or : 7-08 hectares (Approximately) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Gorbi \ 

87 (P)i 94(F) 3 95<TL 96(T), y 7 (F) , 99(F)* 102(F), 131(F), 140(F), !4i(P)* 142(F)* *53 
161(F), 162(F), 1 68(F), 169(F), 170(F), i7i(P), I72CP); 173CP), 174(F), 175(F)? 176(F), 177 
407(F), 40S(P)> and 409(F), 


L t 54(F), 155(F)* 157(F)* I58(P), X59< 
j 7 8(P), 182 (F), i 8 3 (P), 367(P)* 406 ' 


$ 



1560 


TH3 GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION . 

7- 8, Line passes through plot numbers 87= 94> 96, 97 j 96. 102, 95, 1533 154, 183, 1823 178, 177* 176.-, I75> 174 > r ?3^ 171 * 170, 168 
140, 408, 141, 407, 131, 409, 131 & 367 in village Gorbi and meets at point ‘8 r . 

8- 9-10- Lines pass through plot numbers 3673 yi, 409.1 14I1 142., 4063 140, 168, 1703 169, 172 173, 174, 162, 161, 159, 1583 1573 
I55a i53j 9Jj 1023 96, 99, 961 97 3 94 and 87 in village Gorbi and meets at point 10. 

10-7. Line passes along the common boundary of Gorbi Block acquired under section 9(1) of Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and 
Development) Act, 1957 and meets at point *7’. 


SUB-BLOCK II 


ALL RIGHTS 


S.No. Village Tahsil Tahsil District Area Remarks 

number 


I. Naurhia . . . DeOsar , . . , . Sidhi 


Part 


Total Area : 88-50 acres (approximately) 

or: 35-81 hectares (approximately) 


Plot numbers acquired in village Naurhia : 

io6(P)j I07(T)> io8(P), io9(P).' iio(P)> iii(P) 5 H2(P), 1133 1141 115, 116, H 7 (P)> n8(P), 119, 120, i2i(P) & 124(F). 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

1- 2. Line passes through plot numbers 107 & 106 in village Naurhia (i.e. along the part southern boundary of Railway acquired 

land), 

2- 3-4-5-. Lines pa s s through plot numbers 106, 12I & 124 in village Nauriha and meet at point '5’. 

5- 6. Line passes through plot numbers 124, 117, 118, 117 Ac no in village Nauriha and meets at point ‘6’. 

6- 1. Line passes through plot numbers no, in, no, 112, 109, 108 and 107 in village Naurhia and meets at point T’. 

SUB-BLOCK-III 

ALL RIGHTS 


SI, No. Village 


Tahsil Tahsil 

number 


District 

FIB 


Area Remarks 


1. Gorbi , . . Deopar . 


Sidhi 


Part. 


Total Area : on2 acres (approximately) 

or : 0-05 hectares (approximately) 


Flat Numbers acquired in village Gorbi : 

367(F) and 366(P). 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION: 

11-12-13. Lines pass through plot numbers 367 Ac 366 in village Gorbi and meet at point ‘13*. 

13-11. Line passes through plot numbers 366 & 367 in village Gorbi and meets at point 'ii*. 

[No. F. 1(17)/ 71-C 3] 

K. SUBRAHMANYAN, Under Secy. 

*TT?T 

(^wfaffTTT) 

?Tf fosft, 25 RF#, 1972 

*To WT 0996 . — q^r: tfcf (srfa sfk ftw?) STfelWT, 1957 ( 1957 20) OTTT 7 ^TtTTTr ( l) 

% snfto <!wt 'FP^fiTT % kira wVr »tpt (’jrt f^mr) ^ srfy^BT bwt Ti»fo 2310 17 1971 

5 R 1 , Wl % kk if fafrfck if Hjf^T ^ ^RTT 



Sec. 3 (it)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1561 


q-=T : K4TT ^ ^TRT wfyfiwm MTTT < % 1 cj+HW ^ 'PR? fWli 6<,+K Tt $ S I 

sffT iRf ; fv'-fld qr fq ^ I i ^flT' RSJT It%^T RT^iTT TTRIRt *felfW R77FTT ^PT RRTHRT J l9l t 

fe $R% TTf^g RfTOT 106. 12 nT}¥ ( .WW) n 42. 94 (tI'I’H'I) TfTRTT ^ Hjjfe flfnT fen -4 H 1 

*lf&; 

5RT : STO, srfRfenT ^ ETRT 9 ^TUTAr ( 1 ) 3TO TTO Wfel^T ETT nffe +<-jOq RTOTTT "t'a^aKI 

IT$ Rfanrr qrcfr | 1% ETO *t #iRT 106. 12 (WPf) 42. 94 (Wf) M fV-H ih ^ tjfejEt ^.a^ftKl 

wf%E fen tot f 1 

w Rfsj^m % sprnf e srfe n% % ksrfe to faffeR fefa (r<> *r°) % Erofenr Sr, totot Ttnrr War, 

1, qrt d fe'-f fT3ET pffe, TOTTOvRT % +IEfe4 S’ TORT TT^fa VfaRT faWT feTOT fefe^R (TOTOR TOJRTE ) , nfen fil^R, 
tWT (fefTT) % WTfe3T R fen TOT TOPTT $ I 

"TO* 

Rtrff wi fe?nr«T 

(feFTTfefe vtn-rr tfor) 

(esth^r) 

ftfe RWT TTJTPf/ 45/71 
RTtfe 13-9-1971 

(«rfnr %jfer R?r sfnr jtt) 

^T5f-I 

TOfr*riwr 


nr Efrffe ei#e fen sfe fenfrort 

tMt rwtt 


1 fetff fetferx — fefe 


RRT 


fR : — 17.50 qr? (nwr) 

n 7 . 08 ^n: (toe) 


RlR *faff R wfew fe^ nq «RT#f Rf> RtTRT — 

87('ff), 94(<ft), 95'#), 96(tf), 97(<fr), 99^), 102(<fT), 13l(<ft), 140('fT), 14l(<fr), 142(<ft), 

153 («ft),154(qt), 1 5 5 ( c ft ) , 157(ft), 158(«fr), 159^), 161 (^ft), 162(<ft), 168('ft), 169('ft), 170(<ft), 
17l(tf), 172 (<T t), 1 73(<fT), 1 74(«fe), 175(«fr), 176(«ft), 177(<ft), 178(>ft), 182 (^), 183(^), 367(<fr), 
406(fr), 407(<ft), 408(<ft) wk 409('ft) I 

TfelT RpfR 

7- 8 nro TTT9 Rfef ^ TO73 TT^n 87, 94, 96, 97, 96, 102, 95, 153, 154, 183, 182, 178, 167, 176, 

175, 174, 173, 171, 170, 168,1 40, 408,141, 407,131, 409, 131 tfk 367 % ^feK % «fk fe=? fe’ 

TT fenft | I 

8- 9-10 RT^f vrm Rfef 3 TOR nsn 367, 131, 409, 141, 142, 406 140, 168, 170, 169, 172, 173, 174, 
162, 161, 159, 158, 157, 155, 153, 95, 102, 96, 99, 97, 96, 94, tiU. 87 % ^feT TjRTTft | sfkfnj ' 1 0* 9T fenft 

Si 

10-7 *rtnrr’n?T (rre sfk fe'tm) «rfafem, 1957 ^ «kt 9( 1 ) % nffe Ffef gfa totpt 
#n ^fer irwt % *rk fv% ‘i n fenfr S 1 



1562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22 , 1972 /VAISAKHA 2 , 1894 


[Part II— 


*T*ft SlfWTT 


rTTSta-ii 


■mih a$*Tl<-i d^tTUi fdd i sjfef fri.LL|(u|i) j 

?rsqT . smT 


i di 1 fwid <, fftfir — vtft 


3 pT : — 88 . 50 tT^s (otpi) 

ITT : — 35 . 81 i^-T* (ww)] 


Tim *ft ttw ; — 

106(«ft), 107(qt), 108 («fr) 109(«ft), llO('ft), lll(«ft), 1120ft), 1 1 3, 114, 115, 116, 117(«ft), 

118('ft), 119, 120, 12l( l ft), ftt* 124( t ft) I 

1 - 2 *rr^r irjt rftafsprr ft w ftwr 107 106 ft star* ^sr*<ft $ (sr^ ijfft tt wrt : sfa-ift ftrtrr % 

nm) 

2- 3-4-5 HT^fTrrruVr^i ft ^nr ftwr 100, 121 tfr 124 ft star* *[ 3 r* 5 ft | *ft*f*F| ‘5' T*ftr?rft | 1 

5- 6 TTFT ft W ft®TT 124, 117, 118, 117, *ft* 110 ft Star* iJTRrft | nft* ftFf V T* fft^Rft | I 

6 - 1 HT^TTHT ft^PTITW 110, 111, 110, 112, 109, 108, *ft* 107 ftftar* rjSTGft £ wV*f«R; 'l' <r*fft*rftt 

t I 


^T-wr-iii 


TTfft <lfft+K 


ftWt 


a^fttar 

d^fTr^r 

tpptt n 

fmr 


^ r^r^Ni 

1- 

m 

feftftr* 


fftfft 

TTW 

f*T : — 0. 12 tr^r? (sFtaPl) 

5TW : — 0.05 ItatT* (OTl) 


ITPT ftWf ft Tft%5T ftwijt — 

367 ("ft) «ft* 366('ft) I 

ftftTT *I!f*T 

n-12-13 ttft ntftf ft w liw 367 *ft* 366 ft star* rjiraft I *fr* ftpj ‘ 1 3' T* fft*rft f I 
13-11 *rnta ttpt ftftff ft ftwr 366 307 ft Starr ^reft | sft* ftp; "11' T*fft*pft | 1 

[ft° TT° 1 ( 1 7 ) /7 l-Tfto 3 ] 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1672/VAlSAlCHA 2, 1894 1563 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi . the 23 rd February 1972 

S.O. 99 7, — Whereas, the Election Commission is satis- 
fied that the functions of the office of the district elec- 
tion officer for the district of Hissar in the State of 
Haryana cannot be performed satisfactorily by one 
officer; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the proviso to sub- 
section (1) and of sub-section (2) of section 13AA of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1950 and in partial 
modification of its notification No. 508/HN/66, dated 
the 22nd December, 1966, the Ejection Commission, in 
consultation with the Government of Haryana, hereby 
designates the Deputy Commissioner and the Additional 
Deputy Commissioner of the district of. Hissar as the 
district election officers for the district and specifies that 
the Additional Deputy Commissioner shall exercise 
jurisdiction as district election officer in respect of the 
areas comprised in 75-Thana, 76-Fatehabad and 77- 
Badopal assembly constituencies in the said district and 
the Deputy Commissioner shall exercise jurisdiction as 
district election officer in respect of the remaining areas 
of the district of Hissar. 

[No. 508/HN/72.] 
By order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 

fff 2 3 'HVrft, 19 7 2 

9 97,— — fqqfqq qiqfq qq qjf -H I tTT*T 

?T qqT % fa SW^TT tt'H? if fgOTT fo#T fWT faqfT'f 
srrfqiqq % qq % qq ijqr mfqqR jrt qqrtiTqqq 
q;q r qiRR qjflf ftnjT qq ; 

m-, sr«r, Rta qfqf qrfiirfqqjT, leso errqr 
i 3 4 l 'mm (l ) ^ qqqjqi q«?T (2) % 
wjjRqq Jr ifir wqqf qrfsiyqqr r<> 508/?q° 66, Ffrfta 
22 ftWT, 1966 q?> mfwq; r RqRffq?r q^qif 
•qrPT fqqf-qq ’qPTPT qqqqq TORST R f^RTT 

f^r % qqrqqq sffq mx qqiqqq qft rr f^Fr % faq fqqr 
fqqfqq RifaRTf t if qTrfq%q q^^qr f, sfR 

qf fqfqfqsj qrqqr | wqq Rqnm qqq faqq qr 7 5 — 

?Vqr, 7 6 -qRtewrc «rV< 7 7-vr?m rrt fqqfqq wit ii 
RRrfqcq aim qft vwr fen fRqfaw infqqT qr^qir qrfsr- 
qqfRq qq snffq qRqr wfq feqrq f^rir % qrqff eMf 
qft qrq-r faqq fqq’pqq Rrfqqq ^ qq ir wfaqqftqr qq 
spffq qrtqr 1 

[r° 508/?q°/72] 

if , 

tto rt-qo Rq, Rfqq, 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND 
BROADCASTING 

Neiv Delhi, the 3rd February 1972 

S.O. 998. — The Central Government hereby accept 
the resignation of Shri Nirmal Goswami from mem- 
bership of the Advisory Panel, Central Board of Film 
Censors, Calcutta with effect from the 2nd February, 
1972. 


sftq qmrrq rrirr 

3 1972 

9 i 8 ■— ^iflq Rqqqq i y i 'sft f 6 '■'I 

q'tqqprt qq 2 qv^rfy 1972 it RR[? f q;R 3qR, %qftq 
fwq w mi, qrnqqrr qft qqqqqT R fqqr-qw 
qqift $ 1 

[r° 1 1 / 4/7 i-qqio (rffo)] 

New Delhi , the 23 rd February 1972 

S.O. 999. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, 
the Central Government has been pleased to continue 
the appointment of Shri R. S. Saigal, Superintendent, 
Central Board of Film Censors, as officiating Secretary 
to Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay, 
with effect from 20 th January, 1972 to 5th March, 1972 
vice Shri V. S. Shroff granted leave. 

[No. 2/18/72-FC.] 

q^ftqqft, 23 v.q{), 1972 

tTRo?fto 999. — -'Hfaq (3qR) fqqqrqsft', 1958 
% fqqq 1 0 srt snrq srfaqqqf qq spffq qn^ 
qqqqr qrR° qqw, qrtff^Tq>', fWq 
qtf q?t ?rs!;w, fqi^q 3 *r qf#, % 

qqr / q^r % ^q if fojfqq qft «ft ?fVo 
m, qqR q5t qf, % wrq qq 20 qq^ff, 

1972 ?r 5 qrt, 1972 cRi 5TT<t TSRft t I 

[q» qq 0 2/i8/72-qq5o (?fto)] 

New Delhi t the 30 th March 1972 

S.O. 1000, — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Consorship) Rules, 1958, 
and in continuation of this Ministry’s Notification No. 
2/18/72-FC, dated 23rd February, 1972, the Central 
Government has been pleased to continue the appoint- 
ment of Shri R. S. Saigal, Superintendent, Central 
Board of Film Censors, as officiating Secretary to Chair- 
man, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay, with 
effect from 6 th March, 1972 to 17th March, 1972 vice 
Shri V, S. Shroff granted leave. 

[No. F. 2/18/72-FC.] 
6 ‘f 30 qrf 1972 

wtoiooo. — qqfqq loss 

% faqq 10 jRnrrRRftrqqqlfqq snftqqRfr f^fpqr 

W qqmqft qsqT 2 / 1 8 / 72 ^ 0 ^ 0 ., fcqfa 

23qRqqf, 1972 % qiq if, qqqqq t ^ o . 

qqtaqqr, %qftq ftiqq sfti, qff qsm, 
qfqq qtf, qiqf % F4RTMM qfqq % qq if fqrfqq qft 
>sff sffo t^ro ^nqi, fqqqft qqrq qff q^, % ?qiq qq 
eqr#, 1972 ^ i7qrq, i972 qq7qRf qq?ff & i 

[ifqqt qqio 2 /l 8/7 2 -qqio(qfo)] 


[No. 11/4/71-FCC) .] 



1564 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II- 


ORDERS 

New Delhi s the 2 $th March 1972 

S.O, 1001.— In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed 
hereto the Central Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay heU-hy approves the film 
specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the description specified against, it in 
column 6 of the said Second Schedule, 


The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section (4) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952) 

(2) Sub-section (4) of Section 5 of Uttar Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) Act* 1955 (Uttar Pradesh Act 3 of 1956). 

The Second Schedule 


S. Title of the film Length Name of the Name of the Whether a Scientific film or a film intended 

No* 35 mm Applicant Producer for educational purposes or a film dealing 

with news and current events of a docu- 
mentary film- 



1. Uttar Pradesh Sama- 298*09 M Director of Information Government ot Film dealing with news and current events 
char No- 12. Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow. (For release in U.P. Circuit only). 


[No, 28/1/72-F P— App. 1646] 


25*^1972 

tr*io ?fto looi- — 3T«r w*ft spspi ^ srfsrfSpPT dS’CN % STrPfa srrft fatT *rq; % 

spjflTC Pfw svntWK 4ft ftnufwf Iwr apt ^nfr fMPr s^gMt 

% 2 ^ *1^ fl^ft Mi41 iff «fijd fatten vm ^Pl*t fa^TlM % ^tufi+i 6 fWT 

gm pftfT^ % : — 

supT 

(1) «TftrffW«T, 1952 ( 1952 4T 37 ^f srfiifTJPT) 4?t STCT 12 4ftTTOTO(4) 5F4T STRI 161 

(2) 5T^T flPPn srfalWT 1955( 1956 4TT ^pRl) sfafoTT 4?t OTTT 5 4?t IW'I 

(4) I 


VT fa>?*T 4>r TPT 35 ftprffll 4>T ^ § *IT ftlW Sfttft 

ffWTT fao *to fwi | TT *ffT HPTpTO 

^ 44 T*ff »lft fWT | 4 T ¥IJ- 

4 ^t 


(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 


( 6 ) 


(l) : 3WT JT^W OTT 298. 09 fr^FP, ^ W HT4HT, 

12 


i iPimT sfrc HFifjT^ trr*nff 
•ft (4>«t<n <iti t itfars 

% fan) 


28/1/72-CHB ft iflfw 1646] 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2 T J894 




S.O, iooz. — In pursuance 01 tie d actions issued undett tie provjVirns of csth of the erflcinrnf f (tl in ibe FirstSchciJok 
annexed hereto, the Central Government £Uicr considering tic recommend at h ns cf the Film Advitciy Pc^ul, Bombay hereby approves 
the film specified in column 2 t>f the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Gujarati r 0 be of the description spec Jitd against it in coNmil 6 
of the said Second Schedule- 


The First schedule 

(V Sub-Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section j 6 of the Cinematographic Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXYI1 of 195- > 

( 2 ) Sub-Section ft) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1953 (Bombay Act XVIJ of 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the SamashiK. Cinemas (Reguhuion Aci, 19/7, f&yui^thira Aci XVII of 
1953)’ 

The Second Schedule 


SI. 

No- 

Title on the film 

Length 

35 mm 

Name of the 
Applicant 

Name of the 
Producer 

Whether a Scientific fin or ft film h iai^cd 
for educational purports or a film ^ca^ng 
with news and cuir t m events or a docu- 
mentary film. 

i 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


(1) MahitichitraNo- T47 


289^6 M Director of Information, Go\cmmtnt of >. ilm dealing whb n £nd anient r^mti 
Gujarat, Ahmed abad- (For release in Guiuiitt Circuit only). 


[No. i\ 1 ."i-F P- 

ttho wto 1 0 0 2 .-^ 1 % qrq m\ qqq sprgpft n fasrfqq 5Rq*P % wftrfqiR % wa % ttf; fair qtr fa-tfjh % 

VffvtXT, 1 WK, ftiTB -H"!ig'+TT qf?, oF^t *fit Id'Mpmil' IT f^TT fipftq 

2 if r < Tw J T ’TTTRfT qw r^TFTf nf^q fji’Hhd fijrftq 2-i-^l h ^ 

fqqT g5(T ^ C*fr £ : 

qqq 

^ qftrfqqq, 1952 ( 195 2 qq 37 gT -Mpy Pim+i ) 3?T ffRT 12 5WFT ( 4 ) TO ETPT 1 ; I 

(2) (fa£m) ^TfijfWT 1 953 ( 1 953 =TT 1 7 qt qrqf "fit ETFT 5 TT ^TETRT ( 3 ) r l*IT 

*TTCT9 I I: 

( 3 ) qTnr^ (ft ta q) qfafqqq 1953 (1953 tt 17 qt qfafqqq) ^ am 5 ^t^rsjpn a ) 
wr hto 9 1 


fgqtq *^41 


^pq favq qq qrq 
qsqf 


T^renf 35 qq qrq fqqtqr qq ?rm qqr q^if-i ; . feq | qT w.tiT 

fqo qto 'H^py few % qT qqrqK Tift 

qrqrfiph qqqm q?t farq it 

qr nqrq^T fqqq ft 1 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(9 


(5) 


( 6 ) 


(l) qf^qfq^qWT 147 289.56 ttm, V3FW 

qfeT: J 


q^HK 5iV qrnf^pp qfqytj'f 
q>t P+i"H ^ %q^T qiqrr 


[tfwn q:o 28 / 1 / 7 2 — qq 'ft c qlrfw i 64 r ;j 


c n _Tn viumuancc of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactments specified in the hirst Schedule MMc-tied 
, -h-rlnnal Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bornh^v hcr e b\ approves the fifcn* 

1 tflC Cell U hi V. C , 4 1 1 . .. J *11 ttr Inrt mi iter,’, Uc fif ttln r t i"-T in ,, .t, i nonjim. -i , i 


, t ■, thTr^nnal Government after considering the recommendations pi tn c rum Advisory noaru, Bombiv htret-y approves the iifcn* 
lere fLdin column 2 of t™ Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its laneuugc versions to be of the ikscnpi-.n iTecified apaind t in 
^limtn 6 of the said Second Schedule. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


tstf' 

The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section (4) ol the Section i 2 and Section 1 6 of the Cinematograph Ac t, 1952 (Central AcL XXXVII of 1952) 

(2) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 of the Punjab Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1952 (Punjab Act XI of 1952). 

The Second Schedule 


Si. Title of the film Length Name of the Name of the Whether a Scientific film or a film intended 

Mo. 35 mm Applicant Producer for educational purposes or a film dealing 

with news and current events ora documen- 
tary film. 


4 


6 


ti) Hwyana Samachar 287-43 M Director of Public Relations, Government Film dealing with news and current events 
Darshan No, 5 of Haryana, Chandigarh. (For release in Haryana Circuit only). 


[No. F. 28/1/72-FP App. 1648J 
K. K. KHAN, Under Secy. 


tTffo 1 00 ;!. — str ^nfV sm *rrg;^t Sr frsrHrd itcrv srfafRRR % strV fair ^ % 

r*r, rtr^r cri, ^ Iwfwf r rr % rts qd^Ki im spft fefk 

% RRT 2 f Rf ftv?R RTt WKft STFTmf% W^Rf f^RTTT faWT fg?fk % RTTjPT 6 

«r r^TTT f^rr | : — 


( 1) ^rnrsT RfefRRR, 1952 ( 1952 ITT 37 RT tfTCT 12 W ^TETRT ( 4) RTT STHT 16 I 

(2) R^ITT f'T-TRT (WT'T’T) iET^TiT 1952 ( 1 952 R 11 Rf) R^TTf ^ SRT 5 3ft ^TtTRT ( 4 ) 


*TT pRTT W RTR R:,Tt 35 ?ITt^ 3>T RTR fftRfRT R RTR - VJ1 fRyTR | RT fw«TT 

jw Dro ifto $ rt ^trtrk ?fh: 

Wmfa* SRdPMlf *fft fRKRT % 

rt fWr | 


(1) (2) (3) ( 4 ) (5) (6) 


(1) ^crtot rrtrr 387.43 

tfSTT 4 RtR 


jpT fftftW, fflCRPHT OTT, ^ 5 >T? RRTRTC tfk RTRfR? R? RTOt qft 

(%W ffCRTRT % 

% farr) 


[iW R>° 28/ 1/72— cfTqftfW 1648] 
Vo Vo WTR, *TR V 



S»C. 3(H)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1567 


New Delhi f the 21st February 1972 

S.O, 1984. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
Rale 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1955, the President has been pleased to continue the 
appointment off: — 

(i) Shri V, S. Shroff, Secretary to Chairman as 
officiating Additional Regional Officer, Central 
Board of Film Censors, Bombay with effect 
from 17th January, 1972 to 19th January, 
1972, vice Shri Amar Varma granted leave; 
and 

(ii) Shri R. S. Saigal, Superintendent, Central 
Board of Film Censors, as officiating Secre- 
tary to Chairman, Central Board of Film 
Censors, Bombay with effect from 17th Janu- 
ary, 1972 to 19th January* 1972 vice Shri V. S. 
Shroff promoted. 

[No. F. 2/65/71-FCJ 
fTtfewfr, 21 1972 


1004,-TOfTO (TOX) fTOTOleft, 1958 

10 % Birr sr<m tt to>t 

xrrTfer 

( 1 ) STWTST % TlfTO ssft tftomqo ^ ^ 

XR? fflW’l ^ 5T3TJT ^ WTR 9T 

1 7 ^T^rar^r, 1972 ^ 1 9 TO^rft, 1972 ct«f, 
^ttowt vfrfxw sir^w iqfswrO-, 
faro ?rax sfif, , % to to: tot 

( 2 ) ftTO %T 3Tt« ^ STtftoT aft ?TTT° t^To 
tfror qft jfto ittto sira, Fsnrqrr tRtefa 

ff I, % RIR IT, 17 TO^ft, 1972 ¥T 19 
TO^xr, 197 2 tRF, ftfiSTT TOX to?, 

sr»x)f % warn %■ Trorrqvr afro % to to, 
fatriro ^rrCr 1 1 

[#wt<> quo 2 / 65/7 itoe (*rf) ] 

New Delhi , the 28 th February 1972 

S.0. 1005. — In pursuance of the resolution oC the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
a*d Broadcasting No, 1/29/58-FP dated the 5th 
February, 1059, as amended from time to time, the 
Central Government hereby nominates Shri Virendra 


D. Vyas, Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors as 
the Chairman of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay 
with immediate effect vice Brig. R. Sreenivasan, 
retired* 

[No. 28/3/70-FP.] 
28TOPrft, 1972 

TO° dTo loos. — rtct hwx % ^ rorr *flx sRirof 
^ivto^rtobtoto wrfro rtot itwt 1 / 29/5 s-tr^ 
fcrtqr 5 <EXTfr, 1959 % SFJBTOT Jr %x#rq- TOTOT 
% faro tot zVs % toto an*r *t 

toto ?r Jranr-f^r fTONron: tot® % f'TH q' 

foro TOifftro sfri, toto to totot farorf fw to 1 1 

[s 1 28/j/7o-qqio c ft® ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 28th Febriwjry 1972 

S.O. 1006. — In the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting Notification No. 28/3/70-FP dated 18th 
January, 1972, for the words. “Jamshedji Bhaba", the 
following should bo substituted '‘Jamshed Bhaba”. 

[No. 28/3/70-FP.] 
C. B. GIRIDHAR, Dy. Secy. 

SjfaTO 

28TvTOT[, 1972 

s<r° *rr° i oo6.-g^rTT tflx tott^t tototo qfr wfsr- 
’JTOTTOTT 28 / 3 / 70 -irq: (<ft) 18 TOTOV, 1972 
Jr 'tototo tott ) ’ turof #r to fxcxfxfer sfaTOTfro 

fTOTT TOT : — 

"TOST? TOffr” 

[tf 28/ 3/ 7 (M?* (ft)] 

sfro firfoTT, 3 X HfTO I 


i (4 of 1939)! and i n 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Win*) 

. N civ Delhi, the 9 th February 1972 

tourism, grant in respect oftfae clauses oftourist vehicles specified i„ the corre sp0 nJing entryn column (Dof the said Table. 

Table 

Class of tourist vehicle Number of permits, 

w (2) 

Q) Tourist motor cab 

X olU ^ 8 / omnibus with passenger capacity not exceedino 29 . * * " 1 ,< 

(ill Toursit omnibus with passenger capacity exceeding 29 * 10 


[No. 39-TAG/(3)/ 7 i] 
HARBANS SINOH, Dy. S«ey 



1568 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA- APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


[Part II— 


TO ) 

Hi feTOf, 9 TOTOt, 1972’ 

TT^o Wo 1 007. ifpT imft ^fafTTO, 1999 

( 1939 W 4 ) ^ Krm 63 Sfrt TOUTT! ( 7) 5T 7 T 5PTO 
^rf^Fpq-r W TO>T §tt TTprf WTfTO % ?ft=TTO ^VT 
qf^^r wnro (ifw^r to ) # srfa^TOT tott 3 9- 
stoqo3fto(3V71 feTl^ 13 fWH T, 1971%^%- 
WT H fTOTfgfiTO HTPJfr % WTO ( 2 ) t TOtfafTO- 

6WT! ITrlTSKT TOW HJTH % fWT S'd TOfWT tpt 
R W ifTt frfcw TOrft fTOjjf fwft TTW ITT TOV SW W 
sptf tito qfwf^ mfsmft *hsrt % srito 

*rntft % WTO ( 1 ) % WTOTT Sfafe H fafe 
<RZ^T qrfSRf H\ ^fwr % TOTTO t TOR TO WWT | : 

[RTTOt ! 

tRfgsp TTfr fFT «S«ft TTfwf RWT 

( 1 ) (~ 2 ) 

1 — q^TORtHTWCr 100 

2 — m ssfTfTffr TO 

faTO 29 Rfroi qrt % fw* wtoir to? h 

Wfa^^IfTTOT^t I 15 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


3 — TO TOT sfiTOft TO 

f jTTO 2 9 ZTTfrof % 3TO % fTO 5TR9W TO? % 

srfw ^VsiTOi £ 1 10 


[¥o 3 9 -€tolTo 3 fro( 3 )/ 7 i] 

^toto fro, gr Tifw 1 


(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 9th August 1971 

S.O. 1008. — In pursuance of sub-section (G) of Section 
G3 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939) and in 
supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Transport and Communica- 
tions (Department of Transport) No. S.O. 1788 dated the 
L!nd August, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
specifies that the form of special distinguishing mark to 
be assigned to public service vehicles covered by 
special permits referred to in the said sub-section shall 
be as Indicated below, and further specifies that the 
said distingnishlng mark shall be displayed prominently 
on the wind-screen of the said vehicle. 

Special distinguising mark 


Dimensions : 

Border — 

Overall Diameter— 4 1 * 
Colotfr : 

Centre — Light Blue 
Border — Red 


* 5 ^ 

SPECIAL PERMIT No. 

(I5SUE.D UNDER SECTION 65(6)0 F 
THE MOTOR VEHICLES AC T 19^9. j * 

ISSUED £>Y 


VALID UPTG 
MOTE. 


THIS SHOULD REDISPLAYED 
PROMINENTLY OH THE WIND 

Screen oe ihe vehicle. 


LNo. 39-TAG (26) /7QT 
K. BALAKRISHNAN, Dy. Secy; 



Sec. 3 ( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: APRIL 22, 1972/VAISAKHA 2, 1894 


1569 


(qfr^qqtf) 

qt frrsft, 9 wer, i 9 ?i 

ijRoVro i 003 , -liter qTft rrfafqiriT, 1939(1939 
qq 4 } tftEnrrr 63<rt ^wrrr (6) % n ?rte 

qrcr (rrsprr 3 r qfrq^q tftr wur qffrcrtr qft wfa- 


it° qqo «rr<> 1788 te'TN> 2 spirq, 1958 % *rfa- 
wr ir %tertr irorrr ((cregrrrr qrrqt |fap qrqrpft 

irrr after arrfWr, art qqq ^TErrrr it sfteritea fqfare 
qrfttet %■ «r?qq<r srrfft |, qttferrarr^qTqT qf^rrqf\^ 
tetir qqr ?fm, ifrr vz *ft ^f^rfterrr ^rrat | fo grrr 
far^ after qrft % fq^sr^te qr srm m 
srcffrcr fw saw * 


fqfW qf^FT fV'$ 


^SRT*Jter 

tfeaiiS sfafcqfwrK 

^PMKT «(&)% 503 % orffr 

feinWrc^Rte) 

5 W cflfft to WK 

c^TRSq- 

^itevitet % ft i>3f'<£l -3 ■'R Tpa* 
,rw% wd^fei to iJHi-g^ri, 


qfrrrrr : 
qrrr: 1/4' 

ffwjaf iaJTR 4 

rq : 

%ff: 5 ?pT(fteT 
qter • h .«■ 


[(fo 39 -^toqo 3 fto( 26 )/ 70 ] 
%o mrrr^, ^r-Gf'W 1 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRERS, MINTO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1972 



