REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette ml of Endia 


TV 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 46 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY,NOVEMBER 18, 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1883 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 6th Novem 
ber, 1901 - 


Issue 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


275 . S .O . 2632 , dated 2nd Novem - 

ber, 1961. 


Election Commis 

sion , India . 


Appointment of officers specified 

therein to assist the Returning 
Officer for the Parliamentary 
Constituency of the Himachal 
Pradesh , 


DO . 


276 . S . O . 2633, dated 3rd Novem 

ber , 1961, 


Direction to amend Notification 
No. 56 / I /61 (S . O . 2316 ), dated the 
19th September, 1961, 


277 . S . O . 2634 , dated 4th Novem - Ministry of Infor- Approval of films specified therein . 
ber, 1961. 

mation and 
Broadcasting 


278 . S . O . 2669 , dated 6th Novem - Ministry of Com - Cancellation of Order No. S .R . O . 
ber , 1961. 

merce and In - 3440 / IDRA / 19A / 5 / 55 , dated the 
dustry , 

9th November , 1955. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


PART IISection 3 – Sub -section ( 11 ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administrations of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 10th November 1961 
$ . O . 2675 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 ( 43 of 1950 ) , the Election 
Commission , in consultation with the Government of Orissa , hereby nominate 


( 2929 ) 


2920 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1883 PART II 


Shri U . N . Rath , I. A . S ., as the Chief Electoral Omcer for the State of Orissa with 
effect from the 8th November , 1961 and until further orders vice Shri K . S . Bawa , 
I. A . S. 

(No . 154 / 10 / 81.] 


S . O . 2676 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and in super 
session of its notification Nos . 434 / 17 / 56 and 434 / 17 / 56 ( 1 ) , both dated the 7th 
January , 1957, the Election Commission hereby appoints , in respect of each of the 
Parliamentary constituencies in the Union Territory of Manipur, specified in 
column 1 of the Table below , 


(a ) the officer designated in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the 

said Table to be the Returning Oficer ; and 
(b ) the officer designated in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the 
said Table to be the Assistant Returning Officer. 

TABLE 


Name of the 
Constituency 


Returning Officer 


Assistant Returning 

Officer 


1. Inner Manipur 


The Deputy Commissioner 

and Chief Electoral 
Officer , Manipur, 
The Deputy Commissioner 

and Chief Electoral 
Oficer , Manipur . 


Shri Y . Radheyshyam Singh , 

District Election Oficer, 
Manipur, 
Shri Y . Radheyshyam Singh , 

District Election Officer, 
Manipur, 


2 . Outer Manipur 


[No. 434/MR /61. ) 

By Order , 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1961 
8 . O . 2671 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13B of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and in supersession of its 
notification No . 429 / 18 /61, dated the 11th April, 1981, the Election Commission 
hereby appoints in respect of each of the Parliamentary constituencies in the 
Union Territory of Manipur , specified in column 1 of the Table below , the officer 
named in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table to be the 
Electoral Registration Ofcer : 

TABLE 


Name of the 
Constituency 


Electoral Registration 

Officer 


2 


1. Inner Manipur 


Shri Y . Radheshyam Singh . 

District Election Omcer . 
Shri Y , Radheshyam Singh , 

District Election Officer, 


2 . Outer Manipur 


[No. 429 /MR / 61.) 

By Order , 
V . RAGHAVAN, Under Secy . 


Sec. 3(ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1889 2931 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1961 
S . O . 2678 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957 , 
namely : 
1 . These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification , 

Control and Appeal) Seventh Amendment Rules , 1961, 
2 . In part II of the Schedule to the Central Civil Services (Classification , 

Control and Appeal ) Rules, 1957, for the entry " Central Secretariat 
Stenographers Service, Grades II and LII” in column 1 , the entry 
" Central Secretariat Stenographers Service , Grade II (Combined ) " 
shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 719 /61 -Ests ( A ) .] 


New Delhi, the 13th November, 1961 . 
S . O . 2679. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309, 
and clause (5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rules 
to amend the Central Civil Services (Safeguarding of National Security ) Rules , 
1953, namely : 

1 . These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Safeguarding of 
National Security ) Amendment Rules, 1961. 

2 . In the Central Civil Services ( Safeguarding of National Security ) Rules, 


1953 , In 


(a ) in rule 6 , for the words, figures and brackets " Parts XII and XIII of 

the Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules ” , the 

following words, figures and brackets shall be substituted , namely : 
" the Central Civil Services ( Conduct) Rules , 1955 , Parts IV , V and VI 

of the Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal ) 
Rules , 1957 , and Sections III and IV of the Civilians in Defence 

Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1952" ; 
(b ) rule 7 shall be omitted and rule 8 shall be re -numbered as rule 7. 

[No. F . 23 / 17 (s) /81- Est. ( B ).] 
T . C . A . RAMANUJACHARI, Dy., Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 9th November, 1961 
8 .0 , 2680. — In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948 (41 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shri R . P . Kalra, Registrar in the Commission of India , Singa 
pore, to perform the duties of a Consular Agent from the 30th January , 1962 to 
the 12th February , 1962, both days inclusive, 

[ F . No. 6 ( 1 ) -Cons /61.) 
P . H . DESAI, Under Secy . 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 

(Department of Statistics ) 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1961 
S . O . 2681 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 8 of the Indian Statisti 
cal Institute Act , 1959 (57 of 1959 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints a 
Committee consisting of - 

Chairman 
1. Shri D . C . Sharma, Member Lok Sabha 


2932 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1883 [PART II 


Members 
2 . Prof. K . B . Madhava 
3 . Dr, B . N . Ganguli, Director, Delhi School of Economics . 
4 . Shri A , C , Bose, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance , 

Member- Secretary 
5 . Shri P . C . Mathew , Additional Secretary, Department of Statistics and 

Director , Central Statistical Organisation . 
and assigns the following duties to the said Committee , namely : - - 
( a ) the preparation and submission to the Central Government of state 

ments showing programmes of work agreed to be undertaken by the 

Institute during the financial year 1962 -63 for which the Central 
Government may provide funds as well as general financial estimates 

in respect of such work , and 
(b ) the settlement on broad lines of the programme of such work , 
The programme of work to be recommended by the Committee will com 

prise of both the project and the non -project work . In respect of 
the project work , the Committee will also study and make recom 
mendations regarding the basis on which the contract should be 

drawn up and contract amounts fixed in respect of such work . 
2 . The Department of Statistics will perform the Secretariat functions of the 
Committee , the headquarters of which will be at New Delhi, 

[No, 10 / 4 / 61- Estt.III.) 
M . BALAKRISHNA MENON , Under Secy . 


SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th November 1961 
S . O . 2682. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of Article 146 
of the Constitution , the Chief Justice of India , with the approval of the President 
as respects the rules which relate to salaries , hereby makes the following rules 
with respect to the conditions of service of persons serving on the Editorial staff 
attached to the Supreme Court of India : - - 

RULES 
1. (1) These rules shall be called the Supreme Court (Council of Law Reporting ) 
Rules, 1961. 

(11) They shall come into force on the . . . . . . . . . . 

2 . The series of law reports containing the decisions of the Supreme Court 
of India known and cited as the Supreme Court Reports shall be published under 
the supervision of a Council to be called the Supreme Court Council of Law 
Reporting (hereinafter in these rules called " the Council " ) . 

3 . ( i) The Council shall consist of 5 members and shall be constituted as 
follows: 

( a ) The Chief Justice of India (Chairman ) , 
(b ) Two Judges of the Supreme Court nominated by the Chief Justice of 

India , 
( c ) The Attorney -General for India , and 
( d ) One Advocate to be nominated by the executive council of the Supreme 

Court Bar Association . 
( II ) The Registrar of the Supreme Court of India shall be the ex -officio Secre 
tary of the Council. 
4 . The term of office of the members of the Council shall be as follows: 
( a ) The Chief Justice of India and the Attorney -General for Indla shall 

be ex -officio members and shall continue to be members for such 
period as each of them shall hold his respective office ; 


Sra . 8 (it )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1888 2933 


(b ) The other members shall hold office for one year from the date of their 

respective nominations, but cach of such members shall be eligible 
for re -nomination for further terms of one year each so often as the 
nominating authority may think it to re -nominate him , provided 
however that the term of the Judge members shall not extend beyond 
the term of their offico as Judge of the Supreme Court . 


6 . The powers and duties of the Council shall be as follows:- - 


( i ) generally to control and supervise the work of the Editorial staff here 

inafter mentioned and to issue, from time to time directions or 
instructions, general or special, in the matter of the preparation , 
printing and publication of the Supreme Court Reports ; 


( li ) to assess , from time to time, the merits or demerits of the work of 

the Editorial staff or any member thereof; 


( ili ) to make arrangements , in consultation with the Controller of Printing 

and Stationery , Government of India , for printing and publication of 
the Supreme Court Reports . 


6 . ( 1) The strength of the " Editorial Statl " collectively called herein as such 
and consisting of the Editor, the Assistant Editor and Reporters shall be as shown 
in the 2nd column of the Schedule attached hereto and the rates of pay of the 
holders of the said posts shall be those shown against each of the sald posts in 
the 3rd column of the said Schedule . 


(11) The Chief Justice of India may amend the Schedule by increasing or 
decreasing the number of posts of tho categories specified therein provided that 
the power of the Chief Justice of India to create temporary posts of the categories 
specified therein shall be limited to the creation of such posts for any specified 
period not exceeding two years . 


7. (1) The appointments of the members of the Editorial staff shall be made 
by the Chief Justice of India . 


(ii ) Members of the Editorial Staff shall be appointed for such period as the 
Chief Justice of India may determine and the period of such appointment may, 
from time to time, be extended by him , provided that during the period of such 
appointment the Chief Justice of India may terminate the appointment of any 
member ol the Editorial Staff at any time on a month s notice in writing without 
amigning any reasons. 


8 . The Editor assisted by other members of the Editorial Staff shall take all 
necessary action to ensure that all reportable cases are duly reported in the 
Supreme Court Reports and in accordance with the directions or instructions 
issued by the Council from time to time, 


9 . Members of the Editorial staft , if they are enrolled as Advocates of the 
Supreme Court of India under the rules of the Court, shall give an undertaking 
that during the term of their cmployment as such members, they shall not, except 
with the permission of the Chief Justice of India , act and plead as Advocates 
in any court other than the Supreme Court of India and save as aforesaid no 
such person shall hold or accept any other paid office or appointment without 
the sanction of the Chief Justice of India 

10 . No such person shall use for any purpose whatsoever other than his duties 
in connection with the Supreme Court Reports , any document or informtion 
which has either come into his possession or has been prepared oi collected by 
him in the course of such duties . 


11. The Supreme Court Council of Law Reporting Rules, 1955 , shall stand 
cancelled from the date of the coming into force of these Rules ; 


Provided that any orders or appoinments already made under the repealed 
rules shall continue in force and be deemed to have been made under these rules . 


2934 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1889 [PART II 


SCHEDULE 


Category of 

post 


Number of 

posts 


Rates of pay 
per mengem 


1. Editor 
2. Asstt. Editor 
3. Reporter 


Rs. 1000 
Rs. 600 
Rs. 450 


(NO. F . 46 /61- SCA (I \] 
ARINDAM DUTT , Registrar. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
( Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1961 
S . O . 2688. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following further 
amendments to the Regulations governing the procedure for Commutation of 
Pensions, namely : 

In the note below rule 5 ( il) of the said regulations, the following sub -paragraph 
shall be added . 
" It the medical examination is to take place in New Delhi, the forms and 

documents referred to in clause ( 11 ) should be forwarded to the 
Chairman of the Central Standing Medical Board , Willingdon / Sardar 
jang Hospital, New Delhi.” 

[No. F . 2 ( 16 ) -EV (C ) / 81. ] 
C . K . SUBRAMANIAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Economic Afairs ) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
8 . 0 . 2684 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Kottapadi Bank Private Ltd ., Kottapadi, 
in respect of the properties held by it in the undernoted localities , till the 15th 
March 1963 : 

1. Pookode Amsam 
2 . Iringapuram Amşam 
3 . Manathala Amsam 
4 . Perakom Amsam 
5 . Vadakkakad Amsam 
6 . Valapad Amsam , 

INo. P . 4 ( 91) -BC / 61. ) 


New Delhi, the 6th November 1961 
S . O . 2688. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) and in modification of this 
Department s notification No. F . 4 (87 ) - BC / 61 ( I ) , dated 17th October, 1961, the 
Central Government hereby directs that the order of moratorium made by it in 
respect of the People s Bank Ltd ., shall be in force upto and including the 13th 
November, 1961 . 

[No . F. 4 (87) - BC /81 (I).) 


SEC. 8(U )) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1888 


2935 


S . O . 2686 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 7 ) of Section 45 of the Banking Com 
panies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby specifics the 14th 
November, 1961, as the prescribed date in relation to the scheme for the 
amalgamation of the People s Bank Ltd . with the Canara Industrial and Banking 
Syndicate Lid . which has been sanctioned by the Central Governpunt under the 
provisions of the said sub - section . 

( No. F . 4 (87) - BC /61( 1 ) .] 


S . O . 2687. — Whereas on the application of the Reserve Bank of India under 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 ( Act 10 of 1949 ), 
the Central Government has made an order of moratorium in respect of the 
People s Bank Ltd ., Tirthahalli under sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section . 

And whereas the Reserve Bank of India in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 45 of the said Act has prepared a scheme for the 
amalgamation of the People s Bank Ltd . with the Canara Industrial and Banking 
Syndicate Ltd . 

And whereas the Reserve Bank after having sent the said scheme in draft to 
the banking companies concerned in accordance with the provisions of sub 
section (6 ) of the said section and after having considered the suggestions and 
objections received in regard to the said scheme has modificd that scheme and 
forwarded it to the Central Government for sanction . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) of 
section 45 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby sanctions the scheme 
on and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter mcntioned . 

( 1 ) The People s Bank Ltd. shall be the transferor bank and the Canara 
Industrial and Banking Syndicate Ltd , shall be the transferee bank . 

( 2 ) As from the date which the Central Government may specify for this 
purpose under sub - section ( 7 ) of section 45 of the said Act (hereinafter referred 
to as the prescribed date ) all rights , powers, claims, demands, interests , authorities, 
privileges , benefits, assets and properties of the transferor bank , movable and 
immovable , including premises subject to all incidents of tenure and to the rents 
and other sums of money and convenants reserved by or contained in the leases 
or agreements under which they are hold , all office furniture , Joose cquipment, 
plant, apparatus and appliances, books, papers , stocks of stationery , other stocks 
and stores, all investments in stocks, shares and securities, all bills receivable in 
hand and in transit, all cash in hand and on current or deposit account ( including 
money at call or short notice ) with banks, bullion , all book debts , mortgage debts 
and other debts with the benefit of the securities , or any guarantee therefor , all 
other , if any , property rights and assets of every description including all rights 
of action and benefit of all guarantees in connection with the business of the 
transferor bank shall, subject to the other provisions of this scheme, stand trans 
ferred to , and become the properties and assets of, the transferee bank ; and as 
from the prescribed date all the liabilitics, duties and obligations of the trans 
feror bank shall be and shall become the liabilities, duties and obligations of the 
transferee bank to the extent and in the manner provided hereinafter . 

Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, all contracts, 
deeds, bonds, agreements , powers of attorney , grants of legal representation and 
other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immcdiately 
before the prescribed date shall be effective to the extent and in the manner here 
inafter provided against or in favour of the transferee bank and may be acted 
upon as if instead of the transferor bank the transferce bank had bren a party 
thereto or as if they had been issued in favour of the transferec bank . 

If on the prescribed date any suit , appeal or other legal proceeding of what 
ever nature by or against the transferor bank is pending , the same shall not 
abate , or be discontinued or be in any way prejudicially affected , but shall , subject 
to the other provisions of this scheme, be prosecuted and enforced by or against 
the transferee bank , 


If according to the laws of any country outside India the provisions of this 
scheme, by themselves, are not effective to transfer or vest any asset or liability 
situated in that country which forms part of the undertaking of the transferor 
bank to or in the transferee bank , the affairs of the transferor bank in relation to 
such asset or liability shall, on the prescrihed date , stand entrusted to the chief 
executive officer for the time being of the transferee bank and the chief cxecutive 
oficer may exercise all powers and do al such acts and things as would have 
been exercised or done by the transferor bank for the purpose of effectively 


9026 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1889 [PART II 


winding- up its affairs . The chief executive officer shall take all such steps as 
may be required by the laws of any such country outside India for the purpose 
of effecting such transfer or vesting and in connection therewith the chief 
executive officer may , either himself or through any person authorised by him 
In this behalf, realise any asset or discharge any liability of the transferor bank 
and transfer the net proceeds thereof to the transferee bank , 


( 3 ) The books of the transferor bank shall be closed and balanced and a 
balance sheet prepared in the first instance as at the close of business on the 
27th May 1961 and thereafter as at the close of business on the day immediately 
preceding the prescribed date and the balance she - ts shall be got audited and 
certified by a Chartered Accountant or a Mrm of Chartered Accountants approved 
or nominated by the Reserve Bank of India for the purpose . 


A copy each of the balance sheets of the transferor bank , prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph , shall be filed by the transfcror 
bank with the Registrar of Companies as soon as possible after it has been received 
and thereafter the transforor bank shall not be required to prepare balance sheets 
or profit and loss accounts , or to lay the same before its members or file copies 
thereof with the Registrar of Companies . 


( 4 ) The Transferer bank shall in wngultation with the transferor bank , value 
the property and assets and reckon the liabilities of the transferor bank in 
accordance with the following provisions, namely , 
( a ) Investments including Government securities shall be valued at the 

market rates prevailing on the day immediately preceding the pres 
cribed date provided that the securities of the Central Government 
such as Post Office Certificates, Treasury Savings Deposit Certificates 
and any other securities or certificates issued under the small savings 
scheme of the Central Government shall be valued at their face 

value or the encashable value as on the said date , whichever is higher. 
( b ) Where the market value of any Government security such as the 

Zamindari abolition bonds or other similar security in respect of 
which the principal is payable in instalments , is not ascertainable or 
is , for any reason , noi considered as reflecting the fair value thereof 
or as otherwise appropriate , the security shall be valurd at such an 
amount as is considered reasonable having regard to the instalments 
oť principal and interest remaining to be paid , the period during which 
such instalments are payable , the yield of any security issued by the 
Government to which the security pertains and having the same or 

approximately the same maturity , and other relevant factors . 
( c ) Where the market value of any sccurity , share , debcnture , bond or 

other investment is not collsidered reasonable by reason of its having 
been affected by abnormal factors , the investment may be valued on 

the basis of its everage market value over any reasonable period , 
( d ) Where the market value nf any security, share, debenture, bond or 

other investment is not ascertainable , only such value, if any , shall be 
taken into account as is considered reasonable , having regard to the 
financial position of the Issuing concern , the dividends paid by it 

during the preceding five years and other relevant factors. 
( e ) Premises and all other inımovable properties and any assets acquired 

in satisfaction of claims shall be valued at their market value. 
( f ) Furniture and fixtures, stationery in stock and other asscts , if any , shall 

be valued at the written down value as per books or the realisable 

value as may be be considered reasonable. 
( g ) Advances including billy purchased and discounted , book debts and 

sundry assets , will be scrutinised by the transferee bank and the 
securities , including guarantees , held as cover therefor examined and 
verified by the transfrree bank . Thereafter , the advances , including 
portions, thereof, will be classified into two categories , namely 
" Advances considered good and readily realisable " and " Advances 
ronsidered not readily realisable and / or bad or doubtful of recovery " . 


II. Liabilities for purposes of this scheme shall include all contingent liabilities 
which the transferee bank may reasonably be expected or required to meet out 
of its own resources on or after the prescribed date . 


Sec. 9(ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1885 2937 


III, Where the valuation of any asset cannot be determined on the prescribed 
date , it may , with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India be treated partly 
or wholly as an Asset realisable at a later date . 

In the event of any disagreement between the transferee bank and the trans 
feror bank as regards the valuation of any asset or the classification of any 
advance or the determination of any liability , the matter shall be referred to the 
Reserve Bank of India , whose opinion shall be final, provided that until such an 
opinion is received , the valuation of the item or portion thereof by the transferee 
bank shall provisionally be adopted for the purposes of this scheme. 

It shall be competent for the Reserve Bank in the event of its becoming neces 
sary to do so , to obtain such technical advice as it may consider to be appropriate 
in connection with the valuation of any such item of asset or determination of any 
such item of liability , and the cost of obtaining such advice shall be payable in 
full out of the assets of the transferor bank , 

The valuation of the assets and the determination ot the liabilities in accordance 
with the foregoing provisions shall be binding on both the banky and the members 
and creditors thereof. 

(5 ) In consideration of the transfer of the property and the assets of the trans 
feror bank to the transferee bank , the transferee bank shall discharge the 
labilities of the transferor bank to the extent mentioned in this and succeeding 
paragraphs. 
( a ) The outside liabilities other than deposits as on the prescribed date shall 

be paid or provided for in full. 
( b ) In respect of every savings bank account or current account or any 

other deposit including a fixed deposit, cash certificate , monthly 
deposit, deposit payable at call or short notice or any other deposit 
by whatever name called with the transferor bank , including interest 
to the extent payable under this schemc, the transferee bank shall 
open with itself on the prescribed date a corresponding and similar 
Account in the name of the respective holder ( s ) thereof with a 
balance equal to the amount or the sum total of the amounts 

mentioned below , namely , 
( i ) In the first place a sum of two hundred and Afty rupees or the balance 

in the account whichever may be less, provided that the sum total 
of the amounts credited in terms of this sub - clause in respect of 
the accounts standing in the name of any one person ( and not 
jointly with that of any other person ) shall not exceed two hundred 

and fifty rupees ; 
( ii ) in the next place the pro rata share available in respect of each of the 

accounts out of the assets referred to in paragraph ( 4 ) as valued 
for the purposes of this scheme, excluding the advances considered 
not readily realisable and / or bad or doubtful of recovery and any 
asset or portion of an asset not valued on the prescribed date , after 
deducting therefrom the amount needed for the payments or pro 
visions mentioned at clause ( a ) and sub -clause ( i ) of clausę ( b ) 

above . 
Explanation . The term pro rata occurring in this paragraph and else 

where in this scheme shall mean in proportion to the respective 

amounts remaining due at the time of the payment or distribution . 
(c ) On the prescribed date , the entire amount of the paid - up capital and 

reserves of the transferor bank shall be treated as provision for bad 
and doubtful debts and depreciation in other assets of the transferor 
bank and the rights of the members of the transferor bank shall, in 
relation to the transferee bank , be as provided for in paragraph ( 6 ) 
below . 


(6 ) In respect of 
( a ) every account mentioned in clause ( b ) of the preceding paragraph , the 

balance in the account, if any , remaining uncredited in terms of sub 

clauses (i ) and (ii ) of that clause; and 
( b ) every share in the transferor bank , the amount which was treated as 

paid - up towards share capital by or on behalf of each shareholder 
immediately before the prescribed date and / or the amount paid on 


2938 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1888 [Part II 


account of the calls made by the transferee bank in pursuance of 

clause ( i) below 
shall be treated as a collection account and shall be entered as such on the books 
of the transferee bank and payments against the account shall be made in the 
following manner , namely , 
( 1) the transferee bank shall call upon every person who on the prescribed 

date was registered as the holder of a share in the transferor bank 
( or who would have been entitled to be so registered ) to pay, within 
three months from such date as may be specified, the calls in arrears 
and the transferee bank shall take all available steps having regard 
to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the payment 
of the amounts due under this clause , together with interest at six 

per cent per annum for the period of the default ; 
( i) the transferec bank shall, in respect of the advances, bills purchased 

and discounted , book debts and sundry debts and other assets , which 
are classified as " Advances considered not readily realisable and / or 
bad or doubtful of recovery " , or which are or may be realisable wholly 
or partly after the prescribed date in terms of paragraph ( 4 ) above, 
take all available steps having regard to the circumstances of each 
case to demand and enforce payment, provided , however, that if the 
amount of the debt exceeds Rs. 2 , 000 the transferee bank shall not 

except with the approval of the Reserve Bank of India , 
( a ) enter into a compromise or arrangement with the debtor or any other 

person , 


(b ) sell or otherwise dispose of any securities transferred to it ; 


( 1 ) the transferee bank shall in addition take all available steps having 

regard to the circumstances of each case to demand and enforce the 
payment of the amounts, if any, awarded as damages by the High 
Court against any promoter, director, manager or other officer of the 
transferor bank under section 45L of the Banking Companies Act 
read with section 45H thereof and also with section 543 of the Com 

panies Act, 1956 . 
( lv ) the transferee bank may , out of the realisations effected by it on account 

of the items mentioned in clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii) above , make pay 
ment or provision in respect of any contingent liability to the extent 
that the provision made therefor under paragraph ( 5 ) ( a ) proves 
inadequate , as also, with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank , in 
respect of any liability which was not assessed in terms of paragraph 
( 4 ) above and has arisen or been discovered on or after the prescribed 

date . 
( v ) the transferee bank shall, at such periodical intervals as may be possible 

or convenient, make out of the realisations effected by it on account 
of the items mentioned in clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) above, after 
deducting therefrom the expenditure incurred for the purpose , and 
the amount appropriated therefrom in terms of clause ( iv ) above, or 
out of the balance, if any , which may be available from out of the 
contingent liabilities as reckoned for the purposes of this scheme 
after the extent of such liabilities has been finally ascertained , pay 

ments pro rata in the manner and to the extent specified below : 
( a ) in the Arst place the amounts due to the collection accounts of the 

depositors of the transferor bank till payment in full against all the 

accounts has been made ; and thereafter 
( b ) in the next place the amounts , if any, due to the accounts of the 

former shareholders of the transferor bank 


Provided that the transferee bank shall make the payments referred to in 

sub - clause ( a ) above , 
(1 ) if the corresponding or similar account mentioned in clausę ( b ) of 

paragraph 5 has not been closed or has not matured for payment, by 

credit to that account; and 
( II ) if the said account has been closed or has matured for payment, in 

cash , 


Sec . 8 ( li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1885 


2939 


Provided further that the transferee bank shall give to any person to whom 

any payment muy be due against an account mentioned in sub - clause 
( b ) above such reasonable notice not exceeding three months and not 
being less than one month , as it may consider appropriate , of the pay 

ment being due, and 
( a ) it during the period of this notice a request has not been received in 

writing for the payment of the amount due in cash and if the amount 
of the payment due is also not less than the highest closing price 
of an ordinary share in the transferee bank as quoted on any 
recognised stock exchange on or immediately before the date on 
which the notice is issued , or where the ordinary share of the trans 
feree bank is not qcoled on any recognised stock exchange the 
price of the share as determined by the Reserve Bank , the trans 
teree bank shall allot to the payee a share or shares in the trang 
feree bank to the extent possible and disburse in cash the balance, 

if any, of the amount which may be due ; and 
(D ) if the conditions mentioned in sub - clause ( a ) above are not fulfilled 

the transferee bank shall disburse the amount in cash , 
Provided further that: 
( a ) the allotment of the shares or the payments aforesaid shall in each 

case be made before the end of six months from the date on which 
notice of the payment falling due is deemed to have been served in 

accordance with the provisions of this scheme and 
(b ) the share capital of the transferee bank shall be deemed to have been 

increased , and it shall also be lawful for the transferee bank to issue 
the shares , in the manner and to the extent specified for the pur 

poses of this scheme. 
( vi) the amounts due to the collection accounts referred to in this paragraph 

shall be deemed to be a liability of the transferee bank only to the 

extent provided for in this scheme. 
(vii ) on the expiry of twelve years from the prescribed date or such earlier 

period as the Central Government after consulting the Reserve Bank 
of India may specify for this purpose, any item referred to in clause 
( ii ) of this paragraph which may not have been realised by that date 
shall be valued by the transferee bank in consultation with the 
Reserve Bank and the transferee bank shall distribute any amount or 
amounts determined in the light of that valuation after deducting 
therefrom any sum necessary for meeting the liabilities referred to in 
clause ( iv ) of this paragraph which may remain unsatisfled as on 
that date , to the depositors and shareholders in the order and in the 

manner provided for in clause ( v ) of this paragraph . 
( 7 ) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract, express 
or implied, no interest shall accrue on account of a deposit or other liability in 
any account mentioned in paragraphs ( 6 ) and (6 ) after the date of the moratorium 
and interest shall be paid only in respect of the new accounts opened with the 
transferee bank in terms of paragraph ( 5 ) and credited in accordance with the 
provisions of that or the next succeeding paragraph and only at such rates as 
the transferee bank may allow . 

( 8 ) No depositor or other creditor of the transferor bank shall be entitled to 
make any demand against the transferor bank or the transferee bank in respect 
of any liability of the transferor bank to him except to the extent prescribed by 
this scheme, 

( 9 ) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lię against the Central Government, 
the Reserve Bank of India or the transferee or the transferor bank for anything 
which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this scheme. 

( 10 ) All the employees of the transferor bank other than those specified in 
the schedule referred to in the succeeding paragraph shall continue in service and 
be deemed to have been appointed by the transferee bank at the same renumera 
tion and on the same terms and conditions of service as were applicable to such 
employees immediately before the 28th May , 1981 . 

Provided that the employees of the transferor bank who have, by notice in 
writing given to the transferor or the transferee bank at any time before the 
expiry of one month next following the date on which this scheme has been 


2040 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27 , 1883 [PART 1] 


sanctioned by the Central Government, intimated their intention of not becoming 
employees of the transferee bank , shall be entitled to the payment of such com 
pensation , if any under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 and such 
pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement benefits as may be ordi 
narily admissible under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
immediately before the 28th May, 1961. 

Provided further that the transferee bank shall in respect of the employees of 
the transferor bank who are deemed to have been appointed as employees of the 
transferee bank be deemed also to have taken over liability tor the payment of 
retrenchment compensation in the event of their being retrenched while in the 
service of the transferee bank , on the basis that their service has been continuous 
and has not been interrupted by their transfer to the transferec bank, 

( 11) The persons speciflcd in the schedule annexed to this scheme shall, on the 
prescribed date , ceuse to be the employees of the transferor bank , and notwith 
standing anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any agree 
ment or contract, the persons so specified shall be entitled to and only to such 
pension , gratuity , provident fund and other retirement bencfits as may be ordi 
narily admissible to thein under the rules or authorisations of the transferor bank 
Immediately before the 28th May , 1961: 

Provided that the compensation if any for the loss of employment, so far as it 
relates to the unexpired portion of any contract of service , shall be such and only 
such as may be determined by the Reserve Bank ( whose determination in this 
rtspect shall be final and binding ) : 

Provided further that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the transferee 
bank from rc - employing any person whose name has be - n specified in the schedule 
annexed to this scheme in such capacity and on such terms and conditions as the 
transferee bank may decm flt : 

Provided further that nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to affect the 
dismissal of, or the validity of any action laken by the transferor bank in relation 
to . Shri M , Govinda Kamath , ex - Chief Executive Officer and Manager of Shimoga 
Branch of the transforor bank . 

( 12 ) The transferee bank shall, on the expiry of a period not longer than three 
years from the date on which this schene is sanctioned , pay or grant to the 
employees of the transferor bank the same remuneration and the sume terms and 
conditions of service as are applicable to the employces of corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank subject to the qualifications and experience of the 
said employees of transferor bank being the same as or ( quivalent to those of 
such other employecs of the transferee bank ; 

Provided that if any doubt or difference arises as to whether the qualifications 
or experience of any of the said cinployees are the same as or equivalent to the 
qualifications and experience of the other cmployees of corresponding rank or 
status of the transferee bank or as to the procedure or principles to be adopted 
for the fixation of the pay of the employees in the scales of pay of the transferee 
bank , the doubt or difference shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India whose 
decision thereon shall be final. 


( 13 ) The trustees or administrators of any provident fund constituted for the 
employees of the transteror bank or as the case may be the transferor bank shall 
on or as soon as possible aft - r the prescribed date transfer to the trustics of the 
employees provident fund constituted for the transferee bank , or otherwise as the 
transferec bank may direct, all the monies and investments held in trust for the 
benefit of the employees of the transferor bank : 

Provided , however, that such latter trusters shall not be liable for any deficiency 
in the value of investments , or in respect of any act, neglect, or default done 
before the prescribed date . 


( 14 ) The transferee bank shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such state 
ments and information as may be required by the Regirve Bank of India from time 
to time regarding the implementation of this scheme. 

( 15 ) Any notice or other comrnunication required to be given by the trans 
feree bank shall be considered to be duly given , if addressed and sent by pre -paid 
ordinary post to the addressee at the address registered in the books of the trans 
feror bank , until a new address is registered in the books of the transferre bank , 
and such notice shall be deemed to be served on the expiry of forty - eight hours 
after it has been posted . Any notice or communication which is of general interest 


SEC , 8 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27 , 1883 2941 


shall be advertised in addition in one or more daily newspapers which say be in 
circulation at the places where the transferor bank was transacting its business , 

( 16 ) If any doubt arises in interpreting any of the provisions of this scheme, 
the matter shall be referred to the Reserve Bank of India and its opinion shall be 
conclusive and binding on both the transferee and transferor banks, and also on 
all the members , depositors and other creditors and employees of each of these 
banks and on any other person having any right or liability in relation to any of 
these banks. 

( 17 ) If uny difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this scheme, 
the Central Government may issue to the transferor and the transferee banks or 
to either of them such directions not in consistent with this scheme as may appear 
to the Central Government, after consulting the Reserve Bank of India , to be 
necessary or appropriate for the purpose of removing the difficulty . 
Schedule attached to and forming part of the scheme for the amalgamation of the 

People s Bank Ltd . as sanctioned by the Central Government under rub 
section ( 7 ) of Section 45 of the Banking Companies Act, ( 10 of 1949 ) . 


Name of the employee 


Designation in the transferor bank 


1 . Shri S . V . Gundappa 
2 . Shri M . U . Pai 
3. Shri B . K . Srinivasa Murthy 
4 . Shri K . S . Nagappayya 
5 . Shri S . Dharma Rao 


Chief Executive Officer, 
Manager, Bhadravati Branch . 
Manager , Bhadravati Branch , 
Manager, Shiralkoppa Branch . 
Manager, Tirthahalli Branch , 


[No. F . 4 ( 87 ) -BC / 61( 1). ] 
R . K . SESHADRI, Dy . Secy . 


(Department of Revenue) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1961 
S . O . 2688 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( iia ) of sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 4 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby specifies golf" as one of the games for the purposes of the gaid clause , 
This notification shall have effect from the 1st April , 1961. 

[No. 67 / 1 ( 41) -61 / TPL . ] 

I. P . GUPTA , Dy. Secy , 
(Department of Revenue) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1961 
S . O . 2689. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Government hereby prohibits the bringing of the 
rhino trophies and other products thereof from Nepal into India . 

[No. 176 / F . No. 80 / 72 /61- L . C .I.] 

L . S . MARTHANDAM , Under Secy . 
(Department of Revenue ) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 10th November 1961 
S . O . 2890 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section g of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) the Central Govern 
ment hereby remits the duty with which the receipts issued by the Madras State 


ducts thereoment herey section 19 of 


2942 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27; 1889 (PART II 


Electricity Board during the period from the 2nd Septenber, 1958 to the 31st 
March , 1960 (both days inclusive ) are chargeable under the said Act. 


(No. 9./ F . No. 1/ 38 /60 -Stamps- Cus. VII.] 

J. DATTA , Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1961 
9 . 0 . 2691, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Sea Customs 
Act, 1878, ( 8 of 1878 ), as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi 
cherry , the Central Board of Revenue hereby declares that the place known as 
Minicoy Island in the Arabian Sea off the coast of Malabar shall be a port for the 
carrying on of coasting trade with Customs ports generally and for no other 
purpose. 

[No. 174 / F . No. 2/ 10 / 61 - LC .I.] 


LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 11th November 1961 
S . O . 2692 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 11 of 
the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
rescinds its notification No. 3 / F . No. 100 / 20 /59 - L . C .I, dated the 6th May, 1981. 

[No. 7 / F . No. 2 / 10 / 81 - L .C .I. ] 


S . O . 2693. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendments in its notification No . 22 - Customs, dated the 2nd 
February , 1952 , namely : 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification , under heading " C . Land 
Customs Areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Central Excise and 
Land Customs, West Bengal, Calcutta " , under the sub - heading " Howrah and 
Calcutta Area" , for the entries of item 26 , the following entries shall be substi 
tuted, namely : 
" Chitpur Railway Station and ( a ) The Sealdah - Poradah Railway line 
Dhaniaghat River Station passing through Gede Railway Station 

and the Calcutta -Khulna Railway 

line passing through Bongaon . 
(b ) The Sealdah -Lalgola Railway line . 
( c ) River route from Calcutta to East 
Pakistan via Beharikhal." 

( No . 8 /F . No . 2 /7 /61- L .C .I.] 
L . S . MARTHANDAM , Under Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , BOMBAY 

Bombay , the 25th October 1961 
S . O . 2694 . — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Rule 233 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 and in supersession of the Collectorate Notifcation No. CX 
233 / 2 / 56 of 1956 dated the 20th December, 1958 , I hereby direct that the manu 
facturers of all excisable goods shown in the First Schedule to the Central Excises 
& Salt Act, 1944 , within the jurisdiction of the Central Excise Collectorate , 
Bombay , shall give to the Superintendent of Central Excise having jurisdiction 
over the factory of manufacture , and also to the Proper Officer of the Central 
Exdse I / c . of the manufacturing unit , in the Form appended , a declaration of 
the working shifts and the hours thereof and the weekly holidays and other 


SEC. 3(ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 2943 


holidays to be observed within 14 days of the date of this Notification , if not 
already given in accordance with the Notifcation dated the 20th December, 1958 
referred to above or where a new Tactory has been brought under excise control 
within 14 days from the date of such factory was brought under excise control. 

Where a manufacturer intends to make any change in the number of working ! 
shifts or the hours thereof or in the weekly holidays or other holidays declared 
by him , he shall give written notice thereof specifying the change at least 48 . 
hours before giving effect to it to the Central Excise officers mentioned above . 


NOTICE OF WORKING HOURS 


TO 


The Superintendent of Central Excise, 


I / We hereby give notice that the following schedule of working hours and 
weekly holidays and other holidays shall be observed in my / our factory particulars 
of which are given below with effect from . . . . . . . . A . M . / P . M . or . . . . . . . . 196 . .. 
and until further notice. 

1. Name of the factory . . . . . . . . ...... . . and C . Ex . licence No. . . . . . . 
2 . Particulars of the excisable commodity manufactured . . . . . . . . 
3 . Address . . . .... . . . . . . . 
4 . Schedule of shifts and working hours . . ..... . . . . 


I ICET, 


Hours o work 
From : To 


if any 
From : 


Shifts . 


TO 


1st Shift 


2nd Shift 


3rd Shift 


5 . Weekly holidays , 
8 . Other holidays. 


Signature of the manufacturers.. 

Address : 


I ) ate : 
Time: 
Place : 


Copy to the Dy. Supdt 1 / c of the factory 

Inspector 


[No. CX -233 / 2 / 61 of 1981.) 


[No. F . VI(28A )21- 44 / 61. ) 


G . KORUTHU , Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE ASSTT. COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , 
GOA FRONTIER DIVISION , 71 CLUB ROAD , BELGAUM 

NOTICE 

Belgaum , the 3rd November 1961 
S .O . 2695 . — Whereas it appears that the goods as mentioned in the under 
mentioned table seized in the vicinity of the Indo-Goa border , wore imported by 


2944 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1883 Part II 


land from Goa (Portuguese possessions in India ) India in contravention of the 
Rules and Notifications as mentioned against each , 


Si. 
No. 


Date and place of 

seizure 


By whom Description of goods 
detected 


Quantity 


Rules contravened 


3 


226 /61 10 - 9 -61. 

S . I. C . 
Found in $ . T . Ex , 
Bus No, MYG - Karwar 
1107 at Baitkhol Port. 
Jetty , Karwar. 


(1) Black Hair Nets 475 Dozens, The Government of 
( 2 ) Decron cloth 4 Yrds. India Ministry 
(3 ) White Tyrline 14 Yrds. of Commerce and 
cloth ( Plain ). 

Industry Import 
Do. (Lined ) 14 Yrds, (Control) Order 
( 5 ) Hold - all (Snuff- One No. 17 /55 dated 
coloured ) 

7 - 12 - 55 ag ubec 
(6 ) Cotton Pillow One quently amended , 
( 7 ) Cushion cloth Onc issued under Sec . 
(Pillow case ) . 

3 and 4 - A of the 
Imports & Exports 
(Control) Act, 1947, 
and further deemed 
to have been issu 
ed under Section 
19 of the Sea Cue 
toms Act, 1878 . 


2 . Now , therefore , any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to 
show cause to the Asstt. Collector of Central Excise and Land Customs, Goa 
Frontier Division Belgaum why the above mentioned goods should not be con 
fiscated under Section 5 ( 3 ) of the Land Customs Act , 1924 read with Section 
167 (8 ) and 168 of the Sea Customs Act , 1878, and why a penalty should not be 
Inposed on him under Section 7 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 . 


3 . If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against, the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the date of publication of this notice in the Govt . of India Gazette , the 
goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the cage will be decided 
accordingly . 

[No. VIII ( b ) 10 - 228 /81. ] 
E . R . SRIKANTIA , 

Asstt. Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

RUBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 8th November 1961 
S . O . 2696 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clauses ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) of 
sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1947 ( 24 of 1947 ) , read with 
sub - rules ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of rule 3 of the Rubber Rules, 1955 , the 
Central Government hereby notifies the nomination of the following persons 
as members of the Rubber Board for a period of three years with effect from the 
8th November, 1961 to represent the various Governments and interests as shown 
against their names, namely : 


Nominated by the Government of Madras to represent that Government 
1 . Shri C . A . R . Bhadran , Chief Conservator of Forests, Govsrnment of 

Madras, Madras. 
Nominated by the Government of Kerala to represent that Government 
2 . Dr. M . S . Nair, Director of Rubber Plantations, Government of Kerala , 

Trivandrum . 


SEC. 8 ( )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1888 


294 5 


Nominated by the Central Government to represent the small growers in the 

State of Kerala 
3 . Shri V . R . Narayanan Nair, Convent Road , Trivandrum - 1. 
4 , Shri V . J . Kurian, Arakkunnam P .O ., Via , Tripumithura (Kerala ) , 

5. Shri George John, Pearl Hill, Kottayam ( Kerala ). 
Nominated by the Central Government to represent the rubber manufacturers 
8 . Shri A . T. Mathyoo , Secretary , Association of Rubber Manufacturers in 

India , 57 - B , Free School Street, Calcutta - 16 . 
7 . Shri K . M . Philip , M / s. Madras Rubber Factory Private Limited , Post 

Box No. 3760, Dhun Building , 176 / A , Mount Road , Madras - 2 . 

Nominated by the Central Government to represent labour 
8 . Shri P . Ramalingam , General Secretary, Kerala State Plantation Labour 

Federation , Plantation Grove, Trivandrum . 
9. Shri K . Karunakaran , General Secretary , Indian National Trade Union 

Congress , Kerala Branch , P .O . Trichur (Kerala ). 
10 . Dr. T . T . Chacko, General Secretary , Thiru -Cochi Thottam Thozhlall 

Union , Mundakayam (Kerala ) . 
Nominated by the Central Government to represent other interests 
11, Shri C . H . S . London , M /s . Harrisons and Crossfield Limited , Quilon 

(Kerala ). 
12 . Shri M . P . Cherian , Group Manager, Kuttanad Plantations Limited, P . O . 

Box 82 , Calicut (Kerala ) . 


[No. 15 ( 2 ) Plant ( B ) / 81. ) 


TEA CONTROL 


New Delhi, the 14th November, 1961 


S . O . 2697 . — Whereas the Central Government considers it necessary or expe 
dient in the public interest that the restrictions imposed by sections 19 , 20, 21 ( 1 ) , 
21 ( 2 ) , 21 ( 3 ) , 22 and 23 of the Tea Act , 1953 (29 of 1953) should cease to be 
imposed . 


Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 48 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby suspends the opera 
tion of the said sections 19, 20 , 21 ( 1) , 21( 2 ), 21( 3 ) ; 22 and 23 until further orders. 


[No. 12 ( 2 ) Plant ( A ) / 61.] 


B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1961 


S . O . 2698 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Dr. V . Subrahmanyan to be a member of the Development 
Council established by the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry No. S . O , 2603 , dated the 17th October, 1960 for the 
scheduled Industries engaged in the manufacture or production of sugar , till the 


2946 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1889 (PART II 


16th October , 1962 and directs that the following amendment shall be made in 
the said Order , namely : 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order after entry No. 17 relating to Shri J. M . 

Saha , the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 


Technical 

knowledge . 


Member." 


~ 17A . Dr. V . Subrahmanyan , 

Director, 
Central Food Technological 
Research Ingtitute , 
Mysore . 


[No. 1 (4 ) L . Pr ./ 60 .) 


S .O . 2699 IDRA / 6 / 5 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Ravi L . Kirloskar to be a member of the 
Development Council established by the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . O . 2278 , dated the 11th September , 
1981 for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture or production of 
electric motors and of machinery and equipment for the generation , transmission 
and distribution of electric energy (excluding house service meters and panel 
instruments ) , upto the 10th September , 1963 and directs that the following amend 
ments shall be made in the said Order , namely : 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order , for entry No. 2 relating to Shri N . W . 

Gurjar , the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 


Owners." 


" 2 . Shri Ravi L . Kirloskar , 

M / 8. Kirloskar Electric Co. Ltd ., 
Post Box No. 1017, 
Bangalore - 3 . 


[No . 1 (5 ) L . P1 ./ 80 .) 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 13th November 1961 


8 . 0 . 2700 . — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. 2276, dated 
the 11th September, 1961, published in Part II Section 3 sub - section ( 11) of the 
Gazette of India , dated the 23rd September , 1961 : 


( 1 ) For 


Owners," 


" 12 . Dr. H . M . Patel, 

Director , 
M / s . Laminating Ltd ., 
Hyderabad. 


Owners ." 


Read " 12 . Dr . H . N . Patel, 

Executive Director, 
M / s. Bakelite ( India ) Private Ltd ., 
India House, 
Post Box No . 1948 , 
Bombay - 1 . 


SS 


Mc. 8(i )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1889 2947 

S * = 

- = 
( 2 ) For " 23 . Shri Rati Lal Patel. 

Consumers." 
Chief Engincer ( Electricity ) , 
Government of Gujrat, 
Ahmedabad . 


Consumers ." 


Read " 23. Shri R . P . Patel, 

Chief Engineer, 
The Gujrat Electricity Board , 
Kothi Omice, 
Baroda . 


[No. 1 ( 5 ) L . Pr./ 60 .] 


S . O . 2701. — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Order No. 1809, dated 
the 18th July , 1980 , published in Part II Section 3 sub - section ( ii) of the Gazette 
of India , dated the 23rd July , 1960 , as amended from time to time: 


For " 18E . Shri M . L . Sahoo , 

Technical Member," 
Soap and Glycerine Factory, 

knowledge, 
M / s . Bharat Starch & Chemicals Ltd , 
P . O . Yamunanagar , 

District Ambala ( Panjab ) . 
Read " 13E . Shri M . L . Sahoo , 

Technical Member ." 
Chief Chemist, 

knowledge . 
Soap Department, 
M / s. Kusum Products Ltd ., 
P . O . Rishra, 
District Hooghly (West Bengal) . 

[No . 4 (8) L . Pr./ 60.] 
B . R . ABHYANKER , Under Secy . 


( ofice of tho Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 


NOTICES 


Calcutta , the 12th April 1961 


S . O . 2002 . It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause 9 of the Import (Control) Order. 1955 , the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Commerce & Industry propose to cancel licence No . F468282 / 80 / 
EI/CCI/ C , dated 22nd June, 1980 valued at Rs. 2 ,000 for the import of Raw 
materials for paints ( Serial No . 34 - 37 - D / V ) from the Soft Currency Area cxcept 
Union of South Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , Calcutta to M / 8 . The General Merchandise Dealers Ltd ., 135 , Canning 
Street, Calcutta , unless sufficient cause against this is furnished to the Joint Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta within ten days of the date of issue 
of this notice , by the said M / s. The General Merchandise Dealers Ltd ., 135 , 
Canning Street, Calcutta or any Bank, or any other party , who may be interested 
in it . 


2 . In view of what is stated above, M / s , The General Merchandise Dealers 
Ltd ., 136 , Canning Street, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may 
be interested in the said licence No. E 468282 / 6 / ÉI / CCI/ C , dated the 22nd June , 
1980 are hereby directed not to enter into any commitments against the said 
licence and return it immediately to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exporte, Calcutta . 


To 


Messrs. The General Merhandise Dealers Ltd ., 
135 , Canning Street, 
Calcutta . 


[No. 222 /60 / CDN - II.) 


2948 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 [PART 1] 


S . O . 2703. It is hereby notified, that in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clause 9 of the Import (Control) Order. 1955 , the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Commerce & Industry propose to cancel licence No. E 488282 /60 / 
EI / CCI/ C , dated 22nd June, 1960 valued at Rs. 1, 000 for the import of Artists 
materials as specified in Appendix XX subject to the conditions stated therein 

(Serial No. 34 - 37 - D / V ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South 
Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exporta , Calcutta 
to M / s . The General Merchandise Dealers Ltd ., 135 , Canning Street , Calcutta , 
unless sufficient cause against this is furnished to the Joint Chief Control 
ler of Imports and Exports , Calcutta , within ten days of the date of issue 
of this notice , by the said M / s. The General Merchandise Dealers Ltd ., 135 , 
Canning Street , Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested 
in it . 


2 . In view of what is stated above, M / s . The General Merchandise Dealers 
Ltd ., 135, Canning Street, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may 
be interested in the said licence No. E 468281 /60 / EI /CCI / C , dated the 22nd June , 
1960 are hereby directed not to enter into any commitments against the said 
licence and return it immediately to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, Calcutta . 


Messrs. The General Merhandise Dealers Ltd ., 
135 , Canning Street, 
Calcutta . 

[No. 222/ 60 /CDN - I.] 
S . K . SEN , Jt. Chlef Controller. 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 31st October 1981 


S . O . 2704. -- In partial modification of the rate of marking fee for PVC Cables 
and Cords, notified in the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry ( Indian Standards Institution ) , Notification No. S . O , 2955 , dated the 28th 
November 1960 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II — Section 3 – Sub - Section 
( ii) , dated the 10th December 1960 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifles 
that the marking fee per unit for PVC Cables and Cords, details of which are given 
in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been revised . The revised rate of marking 
fee shall come into force with effect from 1st November , 1961, 


THE SCHEDULE 


Unit 


Product/Clagg 
of Products 


No, and title of relevant 

Indian Standard 


Marking Fee per Unit 


I PVC Cables 

Cords, 


and IS :694 - 1969 Specification 1,000 

for PVC Cables Metres 
and Cords for Electric 
Power and Lighting for 
Working Voltages up to 
and including 650 Volts 
to Earth ( Tentative, 
Amended ) . 


25 nP per unit for the first 
5 , 000 units with a minimum 
of Rs. 1,250 . 00 for pro 
duction during a calendar 

year ; 
15 nP per unit for the 5 , 0018 

unit and above. 


[ No . MD / 18 :2. ] 


SEC. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1888 2949 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1961 
S . O . 2705 . In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks ) Regulations. 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that amendments to the Indian Standards given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed have been issued under the powers conferred by sub - regulation ( 1 ) of 
regulation 3 of the said regulations. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. No. and title of the 
No. Indian Standard 

Amended 


No, & date 
of the Am 
endment 


Brief particulars of the 
Amendment 


Date of effect 
of the Am 
endment 


No. & date 
of Gazette 
Notification 
in which 
the estab 
lishment of 
the Indian 
Standard 
Was noti 

fied 


(3 ) 


IIS : 191- 1958 Spoci- S. O . 2654 No, I 

fication for Cop - dated 27 September 
per (Revised ). December 1961 


1958 


(1) The existing clause 15th Nov . 

0 2 has been deleted ber 1961 
and substituted by a 

new clause . 
( 11 ) In clause 0 . 4 , line 

5 the following has 
been added as second 
sentence after the first 
sentence ending with 
bars : 
Phosphorus deoxidi 

bed copper (non 
arsenical), phos 
phorus deoxidised 
arsenical copper 
And tough pitch 
arsenical copper are 
normally Ayallable 
in the form of cakes , 

Alabs and billets". 
( 117) In clause I I add 

the following after 
grade (d ) : 
(e) Phosphorus de 

oxidised copper 
(non arscnical) 

(DHP ), 
(f) Phosphorus de 
oxidised arscnical 

copper (DPA), 

end 
(8 ) Tough - pitch ar 

senical copper 

(ATP ) 
(iv ) A new clause has 
been added after clause 
JO Z and subsequent 
clauscs have been re 
numbered . 
(U ) The existing Table I 
has been deleted 
and substituted by a 
new Table , 


2950 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/KARTIKA 27 , 1883 (PART II 


2 


IS : 247 - 1957 Speci- S . O . 410 
fication for Anhy - dated 5 
drous Sodium Sui - April 1958 
phate (Rovised ). 


No. 1 (1) In Sub - clauộc A - 3 2 1 15th Nov 

September ! line 7 200 g has been ember 1961 
1961 

substituted for 225 g 

(or 8 oz ) . 
(11) In Sub - clause A 

3 . 2 . 1, line 8 100 g 
has been substituted 

for ‘ II0 g (or 4 oz ). 
( iii ) In Sub - clause B 

9 I , line 2 60 ml 
has been substituted 

for 60 ml (or 2 oz .). 
(iv ) In Figure I 60 ml 

Bottle has been subg 
titute 1 for 2 oz or 
60 ml Bottle . 


3 


IS : 248 - 1961 Speci- S . O . 1633 No. I 

fication for dated 15 September 
Sodium Bisulphi- July 1961 T961 
te (Sodium Meta 
bisulphite ). 


(1) In Appendix A , clause 15th 

3 . 1, line 52kg has November 
been substituted for 5 1961 

1h (or 2 kg ) . 
(ii) In Appendix A , clause 

4 . 1, line I 500 g has 
boen substituted for I lb 
( or 450 g ) . 


4 


IS : 253- 1950 Speci - 

fication for Edible 
Common Salt 
( Tentative). 


S . R . O . 658 No . I 
dated 26 September 
March 1955 1961 


Isth 
November 
1961 


(i ) In Appendix A , Sub - 

clause 2 : 1 : 1 , lines 2 
and 3 o 5 kg has been 
substituted for I 16 

( or o 5 kg) , 
(ii ) In Appendix A , 

Sub -clausc 2 . 1 . 2 , 
line 12 2 kg has been 
substituted for 416 

( or 2 kg ) , 
(ili ) In Appendix A , 

Sub - clause 2 . 2 . 4 , line 
4 200 g has been 
substituted for 0 . 5 lb 

(or 225 g ) . 
(iv ) In Appendix A , 

Sub - clause 2 . 2 . 4 , line 
6 s kg has been 
substituted for 10 lb 

(or 4 . 5 kg ) . 
(v ) In Appendix A , 

clauec 2 - 3 , line 2 
0 . 5 kg has been 
substituted for I lb 
( or 450 g ) . 


5 


IS ; 283 - 1959 Speci- S . O , 485 No. I 

fication for Porce - dated 27 July 1961 
lain Insulators for February 
Telegraph and 1960 
Telephone Lines 
(Revised ). 


( ) In Suh - clause 0 . 4 . 1 15th 
please read IS : 1441- November 
1960 for IS : 1441 1961. 
1959 . 


( it ) at pages 3 and 4 

the cxisting figures I , 
2 and 3 have been de 
leted and substituted by 
new figures , 


SEC , 5 (it) } THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1883 

S 


2951 


- 


- 


- 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


6 . 


IS : 295 -1951 Speci - S . R . O . 658 No. I 

fication for Blea - dated 26 September 
ching Powder , Un - March 1955 1961 
stabilized . 


(i ) In Appendix A , clause 15th 

3 . 1 , line62 kg has November 
been substituted for 1961 

5 lb ( or 2 kg ) . 
( ii ) In Appendix A , 

clause 4 . I , line 2 200 
g has bech substitu 
ted for o 5 lb ( or 

225 g ) . 
(1) In Appendix A , 15th 

clause 3 . 1, line 6 November 

2 kg has been subs - 1961 
tituted for slb (or 2 
kg) . 


7 . IS : 296 -1951 Speci- S . R . O , 658 No, I 

fication for Anhy - dated 26 September 
drous Sodium March 1955 1961 
Carbonate , Pure 
and Analytical Re 
agent. 


( ii ) In Appendix A , 

clause 4 . 1, line 2 
200 g has been substi 
tuted for fo . 5 lb (or 

225 8 ) 
( 11t) In Appendix A , 
clause 4 . 1, Unc 3 

100 g has been subs 
tituted for 4 oz ( or 

II0 g ) . 
( iv ) In Appendix B , 

Sub - clause 15 . 1 . I , 
line 2 60 ml has been 

substituted for 2 Oz . 
( v ) In Figure i on page 

9 60 ml Bottle has 
substituted for 2 oz 

or 60 nl Bottic . 
( vi) In Appendix B , 

Sub - clausc 15 . 2 : 13 , 
line 2 Passing IS 
Sieve 570 (aperture 
5660 microns) and re 
tained on IS Sieve 280 
(aperture 2818 mic 
rons ) has been subs 
tituted for passing a 
Sieye of 3 to 6 meshes 

per inch . 
The existing Sub - clause 15th 

13 3 . 1 has been November 
deleted and substi- 1961 
tuted by 4 new Sub 

clause , 
(1) In Appendix A , clause 15th 

3 . 1, line 7, r kg has November 
been substituted for 1961 

2 lb ( or I kg ) . 
( 11 ) In Appendix A , 

clause 4 . 1 , lines I 
and 2 200 g has been 
substituted for 8 oz 
(OL 250 g ) 


& 


IS : 326 - 1952 Me- S . R . O . 658 No. I 

thods of Test for dated 26 October 
Essential Oils . March 1955 1961 


9. 


IS : 331- 1951 Speci- S .R O . 658 No, I 

fication for Chro - dated 26 September 
me Salt. 

March 1955 ( 1961 


10 . IS : 332 - 1951 Speci- 

fication for Chro - 
me Alum Potash , 


S . R . O . 658 No. I 
dated 26 September 
March 19551 1961 


1) In Appendix A , 15th 

clause 3 : 1 , line 3 100 November 
mm has been subg 
tituted for 4 in . (or 
100 m ) . 


2952 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1883 (PART II 


Fe 


(it) In Appendix A , 

clause 3 . 1 , line 4 
somm has been subs 
tituted for 2 in . (or 50 

mm ) . 
(11 ) In Appendix A , 

clause 3 . 1, line 9 
I kg has been subs 
tituted for 2 lb ( or 

I kg ) . 
(iv ) In Appendix A , 

clause 4 . 1 , lince I and 
2 200 g has been 
substituted for 8 oz 
(or 250 g ) . 


11. IS : 333 - 1951 Spoci- S .RO . 658 No , I ) In clause A - 3 . 1, 15th 

Acation for Potas- dated 26 September line 8 I kg has been November 
slum Permange - March 1955 1961 substituted for 2 lb 1961 
nato , Technical 

( or 1 kg) , 
and Pharmacou 

(11) In clause A - 3 . 2 , 
tical 

lino 2 100 g has been 
substituted for 4 OZ 
( or II0 g ) . 


12 . IS : 376 - 1952 Speci- S . R . O . 658 No. I 

fication for Sodium datod 26 September 
Hydroxide, Analyti - March 1955 1961 
cal Reagent. 


Isth 
Novombar 
1961 


(1) In clause A - 3 . 1, 

line 8 I kg has been 
substituted for 2 1b 

or I kg ) . 
( it ) In clause A - 4 . 1 , 

lines 1 and 2 100 g has 
been substituted for 

4 oz (OC IIO 8 ) . 
( iii) In Sub -clause B 

14 I I, line 2 60 ml" 
has been substituted 

for 2 oz . 
(iv ) In Figure I on page 

8 60 ml Bottle has 
been substituted for 

2 oz or 60 ml Bottle . 
(0 ) In Sub -clause B 

14 . 2 . 20 , lincs 2 and 
3 passing IS Slevo 
570 (aperturc 5660 
microns) and retained 
on IS Sicve 280 (aper 
ture 2818 microns ) has 
been substituted for 
passing a sieve of 3 
to 6 meshcs per inch 
( 25 4 mm ) , 


13 . 


IS : 410 - 1959 Speci - S . O . 74 

fication for Rolled dated 9 
Brges Plate , Sheet , January 
Strip and Flio 
(Revised 


No, I 
October 
1961 


I9бо 


(D) In clause 2 . 4 , line 3 , Isth 

clause 2 s , line 3 , and November 
clause 2 . 6 , line 2 1961 
soo mm (or zo in .) has 
been substituted for 

450 mm ( or 18 in .) . 
(11) The existing Sub 

clause 9 . 2 I has been 
deleted and substitu 
ted by a new Sub 
clause , 


SEC. 8 (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1885 


2953 


(5 ) 


( it ) The existing Sub 

gub - clause 9 . 2 . 1 . 3 
has been deleted and 
substituted by a 

new sub - sub - clause . 
(iv ) Thee xisting Sub -sub 

clause 9 . 2 . 1 .4 has 
been deleted and 
substituted by & new 

sub - sub - clause . 
( 0 ) The existing Sub 

sub -clause 9 . 2 .2 . 1 bas 
been deleted and 
gubstituted by a new 

sub -sub - clause. 
(w ) In Appendix A , a 

new Appendix bas 
been added at the end 

of the text. 
( ) In clause A - 3 . 1, line isth Novem 

8 200 g has been ber 1961. 
substituted for 8oz 
( or 250 g) . 


14 . I $ : 501 - 1953 Speci- S . R . O . 658 

fication for dated 
Oxalic Acid , Tech - 26 March 
nical and Analyu - 1955 
cal Reagent. 


No. I 
September 
1981 


IS . I $ :559 - 1954 Speci- S . R . O .658 No. 
Acation for Chro - dated 

September 
mium Trioxide 26 March 1955 1961 
(Chromic Acid ), 
Analytical Reagent 


16. IS :708 - 1956 Speci- S .R . O . 1257 No. 2 

fication for Potas- dated 2 Juno September , 
Bium Chlorate 1956 1961 

Technical 


( 11 ) In clause A -3 .2 , lines 

I and 250 g has been 
substituted for 20 z 
( or so g ) . 
) In clause A -3 . 1, line 8 Igth Novem 

500 g has been substi ber 1961. 
tuted for ‘ 1 lb ( or 450 
( ii ) In clause A -3 .2 , line 

2 100 g has been 
Bubsttuted for 4 OZ 

(or TIO 8 ) . 
1) In clause A - 3. 1, line 7 15th Novem 

0 . 5 kg has been subs- ber 1961. 

tituted for 450 g (or i lb ) . 
(11) In clause A -3 . 2 , line 2 

100 g has been sub 
stituted for 100 8 

(or 4 oz ) , 
( 112) In clause B - 8 . 1 , linc 4 
*6 mm has been sub 

stituted for 4 in . . 
( iv ) In clause B -8 .1 , line 5 

12 mm has been 

substituted for in . 
(1) In clause A - 4 . 1, linc 15th Novem 

8 0 . 5 kg has been ber 1961. 
substituted for o . 5 kg 

( or Ilb ) . 
(ii) In clause A - 4 -2 , line 2 

100 g has been subs 
tituted for 120 8 (or 

4 0 oz ) . 
( iid) In Sub - clause B - 12 . 

I I, line 260 ml bag 
been substituted for 
60 ml (or 2 oz ) . 


17. IS :711- 1955 Speci - S .R . O . 3713 No. I 

Acation for Ferric dated 24 September 
Chloride, Technical December 1961 

1955 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1889 [Part II 


6 


18 . 


IS :826 - 1955 Speci- S .R . O . 1033 No. I 

fication for Amm - dated 5 May November 
onium Sulphate , 1956 

1961 
Technical 


19 . 


IS :853 - 1956 Speci - S . R . O . 2203 No . I 

Specification for dated 29 October 
Bone -Meal, Raw September 1961 

1956 


(iv ) In Figure I on page 

8 "60 ml Bottle has 
been substituted for 

2 oz or 60 ml Bottle . 
(1) In Sub - clause A - 2. 2 . 1, 15th Novem 

line 2 Io metric tonnes ber 1961, 
has been substituted 
for 10 000 kg ( or 10 

tons ) , 
(it) In Sub - clause A -3 . 1 . 1, 

line 9 100 metric ton 
nes has been substitu 

ted for 100 tons . 
(111) In Sub - clause B - 6 . 

1. 1, line 2 60 ml 
has been substituted 

for 2 oz (or 60 ml) . 
( iv ) In Figure 2 60 ml. 

BOTTLE has been 
substituted for 2 oz 

OR 60 ml BOTTLE . 
(1) In clause A - 3. 1, line 8 15th Novem 

o s kg has been substi- ber 1961. 
tuted for 0 . 5 kg 

(or 1 lb ) . 
(ii) In clause A - 3 . 2 , line 

2 50 g has been 
substituted for 55 g 

(or 2 oz ) . 
(1) In Figure I on page 6 15th Novem 

60 ml BOTTLE has ber 1961. 
been substituted for 
* 2 oz or 60 ml BOTTLE . 
(1) In clause A - 2. 2 , lines 15th Novem 

4 and 17 0 . 5 kg has ber 1961, 
been subytituted for 

0 . 5 kg (or 1 lb ) . 
( ii ) In Sub - clausc A - 2 . 2 . 1 

line 2 10 metric ton 
nes has been substitu 
ted for I0 000 kg (or 

Io tons) . 
( 11 ) In Sub - clause A - 2.2 . 1. 

lincs 3 and 4 250 g 
for each metric tonne 
has been substituted for 

250 g for each 1 000 
kg (or 0 . 50 lb for cach 

ton ) . 
(iv ) In clause A - 4 .2 , line 

9 200 g has been 
substituted for 250 g 

( or 0 . 5 1b ) . 
(u ) In clause A -4 .3 , line 

2 50 8 has been sub 
stituted for 50 g (or 
2 oz ) . 


20 . IS 880 - 1956 Speci- S . R . O . 956 No. I 

fication for Tar - dated ! September 
taric Acid 

30 March 1961 

1957 
21 . IS : 1013 - 1956 Speci - S. R . O . 1546 No . I 

ficarion for Tri - dated 18 May November 
ple Superphosphate 1957 

1961 


22 . IS : 1023 - 1956 Speci- 

fication for Dical- 
ciuf Phosphate 


S . R . O . 2029 No , I 
dated 22 Junç November 
1957 

1961 


(1) In clause A - 2 .2 , lines 15th Novem 

4 and 17 O 5 kg has ber 1961. 
been substituted for 
o 5 kg (or 1 . 0 1b ) . 


Sec . 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1981/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 2955 


- 


_ 


SS 


(5) 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


( 11 ) In Sub - clause A - 2 . 2 . 1 , 

line 2 ro metric ton 
nes has been substi 
tuted for 10 000 kg (or 

Io tons) . 
( iii ) In Sub - clause A - 2 . 2 . 1 , 
lines 3 and 4 250 g for 
each motric tonne has 
been substituted for 
250 g for each 1000 kg 
( or 0 . s Ib for each ton ) . 


23 IS : 1065 - 1957 Spoci- S .R . O . 2909 NY I (i) In clause A - 3. 1, line 6 15th Novem 

Acation for Blcaching dated 14 September 62 kg has been substi- ber 1961 
Powder , Stable September 1961 tuted for 2 kg (or 5 lb ) . 
1957 

(ii ) In clause A - 4 . 1 , line 2 

200 g has been substi 
tuted for 225 8 (or 0 .5 
1b ) . 


24 IS : 1113 - 1957 Speci - S. R . O . 3809 No , I 

fication for Ammo- dated 30 November 
nium Chloride, November 1961 

1957 


Purc 


(i) In clause A - 2 . 1, lines 15th Novem 

9 and 10 100 metric ber 1961 
tonnes has been subs 
tituted for ‘IOO 000 kg 

( or too tons) 
(it) In clause A - 3 . 1 , 

line 9 I kg has been 
substituted for Ikg 

(or 2 lb ) . 
( 111 ) In sub - clause C - 3 . 1. 1 

line 2 60 ml has been 
substituted for 60 ml 

(or 2 uz ) . 
(iv ) In Figure 2 60 ml 

BOTTLE has been 
substituted for 2 OZ 
OR 60 ml BOTTLE . 


257 (IS :1534 (Part I)- 1960 S. R . O . 2609 No. I 

Specification for dated 29 September 
Ballasts for Fluo - October 1960 1961 
rcecent Lamps 
Part I for Switch 
Start Circuits 


(1) In Figure 9 the follow - Isth Novem 

ing has been added ber 1961 
below the lower sketch 
of the figure and above 
the words All dimen 
gions in millimetres . 
Material - I - mm sheet 
iron white painted 
inside and outside. 


26 


IS : 1547 - 1960 Spc- S . O . 2319 

cification for Infant dated 24 
Milk Foods 

September 


No . I 
June 1961 


In clause 6 . 2 the following 15th Novem 

note has been added ber 1961 
after ( h ) : 


1961 


" NOTE - - The word 

"pure shall not be 
used in the markings ." 


27 IS : 1653 - 1960 Spc- S . O . 341 

cification for Steck dated in 
Conduits for Elec - February 
trical Wiring 1961 


No , I 
September 
1961 


( The exisung clause 15th Noven 
0 . 9 has been deleted ber 1961 
and substituted by a 
new clause , 


2006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1883 [PART IL 


( 11) The existing Sub 

clause 6 . 1 . 1 has been 
deleted and substituted 
by a new Şub -clause . 


Copies of these Amendment Slips are available , free of cost, with the Indian 
Standaris Institution , "Manak Bhayan " , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1 , and also 
at its Branch Offices at ( i) 232, Dr . Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - 1, 
( ii ) Third Floor , 11, Sooterkin Street , Calcutta - 13 , (iil ) 2 / 21, First Line Beach 
Madras- 1 and (iv ) 14 / 69 , Civil Lines, Kanpur . 

(No. MD / 13 : 5.] 


S . O . 2708 , - In pursuance of sub -regulations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of 
the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the 
Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standards , particulars 
of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been established during 
the period 16th October to 31st October 1981. 


THE SCHEDULE 


Brief Particulars 


Sl. 
No . 


No. and Title of the No. and Title of the Indian 
Indian Standard establish - Standard or Standards , 
ed , 

If any , superseded by 
the new Indian Standard 


( 3 ) 


I IS : 204 - 1961 Specifica - IS : 204 - 1980 Specifica - This standards lays down require 

tion for Tower Bolts tion for Mild Steel and ments regarding material dimen 
( Revised ) 

Brass Door Bolts , Tower Blong, manufacture and finish of 

and Barrel Typen tower bolts (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ). 
2 IS :426 - 1961 Specifica - IS . 426 - 1953 Specifica - This Standard prescribes the 

tion for Paste Filler for tion for Paste Filler for requirements and the methode 
Colour Coats ( Revised ). Colour Coats 

of test for tho material commer 
cially known as paste filer for 
colour coats . The material is 
used as an ingredient for pre 
paring ready mixed paint, 
brusling , grey filler , for enamele 
for use over primera (See I $ : 
II 0 - 1950 Specification for 
Ready Mixed Paint, Brushing . 
Grey Filler, for Enamels, for 
Uso Over Primers ). It is not 
jatended for uge as a knifing 
putty or 98 a trowelling com 

poundy . ( Price Re. I 00 ). 
3 IS :512 - 1961 Specifica - IS :512 ; - 1954 specifica . This standard prescribes the re 

tion for Oil ofCitronellation for Citronella Oil. quirements and the methods of 
(Revised ). 

test for the material commercially 
known as the oil of citronella 
of two types , namely , Ceylon 
type and Java type. Oil of 
citronella of the Ceylon type is 
suitable for use in goap Perfumes 
and for masking odours in sprays, 
disinfectants and other industrial 
Preprations. Tava typo of the 
oil is used in porfumery and as 


SEC. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 188 $ 2957 


(4 ) 


4 . IS :627- 1961 Specifica - IS : 627 - 1955 Specica 

tion for Bicycle Chains tion for Bicycle Chains 
(Rooised ) 

( Tmpative ) 


5 . IS : 1818 - 1961 Specifica 

tion for Outdoor Air 
Break Igolators and 
Earthing Switches for 
Voltages up to 220kV 


6 . IS : 1833 - 1961 Specific - 

tion for Diazinon 
Tochnical 


a source of geraniol and citro 
nellol , The aldehydic portion 
of the oilfs also used in the pro 
duction of hydroxycitronella 
I -monthol and other cromatic 
synthetics (Price Rs. 1 . 50 ). 
This standarc covers the 

requirements of two sizes 
of chains for bicycles for 
general use . (Price Rs. I 50) . 
This standard applies to air-brcak 

isolating switches and earthing 
switches for outdoor installation 
for use in voltages up to 220ky 
and service frequency of so c /8 
(Price Rs. 5 : 00 ). 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and tho methods of 
toat for diazinon, tochnical, 
employed in the preparation of 
insecticidal 

formulations 
(Price Rs. 3 . 00) . 
This standard lays down the 

dimensions constructional do 
tails , methods of tests and 
performance and other require 
ments of lead -acid storagebatteries 
for use in aircraft of either aero 
batic or non -acrobatic type 

(Price Rs. 4 . 50 ) . 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements for the commonly 
used types of writing and prin 
ting papers (Prico Re, I 00 ). 


7 . IS : 1846 - 1761 specifica 

tion for Lead - Acid 
Storage Batteries for 
Aircraft (Acrobatic and 
Non - Aerobatic ) 


8 . 


IS : 1848 - 1961 Specifica 
tion for Writing and 
Printing Papers . 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available , for sale , with the Indian 
Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1, and also 
at its Branch Offices at ( i) 232 , Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Fort, Bombay - 1 , 
( ii) Third Floor , 11, Sooterkin Street, Calcutta - 13 , ( iii) 2 / 21, First Line Beach , 
Madras - 1, and (iv ) 14 /69, Civil Lines , Kanpur. 

[ No . MD /13: 2.] 


. 0 : 2707 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -regulations ( 2 ) and 
( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) 
Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies the issue of 
errata slip particulars of which are given in column ( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto 
annexed , in respect of the Indian Standard specified in column ( 2 ) of the said 
Schedule . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No. 


No , and Title of Indian 
Standard 


No. and date of Gazette Particulars of Errata Slip Issued 
Notification in which 
establishment of Indian 
Standard was notified 

(3 ) 


I. 


IS : 1089 - 1957 Specifica - 
tion for Oleum (20 
Percent), Technical 


S . R . O . 50 dated 4 January (i) The existing clause B - 7. 1. 5 on 
1958 

page 8 has been deleted and 
substituted by a new clause . 


2958 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1888 [PART II 


- - 


- - - 


( 4 ) 


EP4 


- 


- 


-- 


( ii) The existing clause B -7 .2. 2. on 

page 8 has been deleted and 
substituted by a new clause . 


Copies of this Errata Slip are avallable, free of cost, with the Indian 
Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 , Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1 and also 
at its Branch Offices at ( i ) 232, Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road , Bombay , 
( ii ) Third Floor, 11 , Sooterkin Street, Calcutta - 13 , (iii ) 2 / 21, First Line Beach , 
Mudras - 1, and ( iv ) 14 / 69, Clyil Lines, Kanpur. 

[ No . MD/13: 6. ] 


語部落 


New Delhi, the 9th November, 1961 
S . O .2708, - & pursuanec of sub- regulation ( 1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 . 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby botifies that eight liances , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been granted 
authorizing the liocokees to use the Standard Mask . 

TEE SCHEDULE 


SL 


Name and address ofthe License 


Article Process covered by the 

Licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


Licence No. and Period of Validity 
Date 

From 
From 


No. 


To 


I CM1 — 348 

II - 10 - 1961 


13 - 106I 


I -11 -61 


2 CM /L 349 

20- I - Igói 


Sec.9411)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER18,1961/KARTIKA27,1883 


3 CM / L - 350 

25 - 10 - 1961 


12 -10 -62 The Malwa Vanaspati Chemical 18- Litre Square Tins 

IS : 916 - 1958 Specification for 
Co. Ltd , Bhagirathpura , In 

18 -Litre Square Tins, 
dore . 
31 - 10 -62 Messrs. Cable Corporation of PVC Insulated (Heavy Duty ) IS : 1554 (Part 1) - 1961 Specifi 

India Limited , Laxmi Build Electric Cables for Working cation for PVC Insulated 
ing , 6 Ballard Road , Ballard Voltages op to and Inchidiag (Heavy Duty ) Electric Cables 
Estate, Fort, Bombay -I . 1100 Volts . 

Part I for Working Voltages 
up to and Including II0O 

Volts . 
31- 10- 62 Messrs . Firoz Trading Com - Mutton Tallow Grade 1 and 2 IS : 887 - 1960 Specification for 
pany Private Limited , Kamer 

Multon Talloy 
Building, 38 Cawasji Patel 

Street, Port , Bombay - I. 
16 - 11 -62 Messrs. Bharat Wood Works, Tea -Chest Plywood Panels IS : 10 - 1953 Specification for 
P . O . Dibrugarh , Assam . 

Plywood Tea -Chests (Re 

oised ). 
14 - 11 -02 Mess13 . Devidayal Cable In - PVC Cables, 250 Volts Grade IS : 694 - 1960 Specification for 
dustries Private Ltd , Gupta 

PVC Cables and Cords 
Mills Estate , Darukhana, Reay 

for Electric Power and Light 
Road , Bombay - 10 . 

ing for Working Voltages up 
to and Including 650 Volts 

to Earth , 
14 - 11- 62 Mairs. Union Sales Corport . Oil, Cutting Soluble 

IS : 1115 - 1957 Specification 
tion, 1181- C Parel Tank 

for Oil, Cutting, Solubl . 
Road , Parel, Bombay- 12 . 


1- 11 -61 


4 CM / L - 351 

31 - 10 - 1961 


17- 11 -61 


5 CML- 352 

31- 10 - 1961 


15 -11-61 


15 - 11- 61 


6 CML- 353 

31- IO - 1961 


2959 


29.60 


7 CM / L - 354 

31 - 10 - 1961 


15 - 31 -61 


14 - 11 -62 Messrs. T . Maneklal Manorac Rubber - Insulated Cables for IS : 434 - 1993 Specification for 

turing Company Lt . Vas Electric Power and Lighting, Rubber - Insulated Cables and 
wani Mansions , Dinshay TRS type - 250 Volts Grade. Flexible Cords for Electric 
Vachha Road , Bombay - I . 

Power and Lighting (For Work 
ing Voltages up to and 

Induding 11 kV ). 
14 -11 -62 Messrs . Cauvery Spinning and Cotton Yarn , Grey for Hand - IS : 1539 - 1960 Specification 

Weapiog Mills Limited , looms (Counts 32 , 405 and for Cotton Yarn , Grey, for 
Cauverynagar P . O ., Vellanur , 400 / 2 only ) 

Handlooms. 
Trichy District. 


8 CML _ 355 

31- 10 - 1961 


15 - 11-6I 


No. MD / 12 : 660 .) 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER18,1981/LARTIKA27,1883[PartII 


S . O . 2709 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955, II 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that nineteen licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been 

eneyed . 


THE SCHEDULE 


(3 ) 


$i. Liæence No. and Period of Validity Name and Address ofthe Licen - Article covered by the licence Relevant Indian Standard 
No. Date 

see 
From 

Το 

(4 ) 
I CML - 15 . 2 - 10 -61 1 - 10 - 62 Messrs , Khadi and Gramodyog The National Flag of India IS : 1 – 1951 Specification for 
13 -9 - 1956 Bhandas, 396 Kalbadevi (Cotton Khadi) 

the National Flag of India 
Road , Bombay -2. 

(Cotton Khadi) 
2 CML - 20 - 24 - 10 -61 23 - 10 -62 Messrs. Shree Digvijay Cement Ordinary , Rapid -Hardening and IS : 265 - - 1958 Specification for 
24 - 10 - 1956 Co. Ltd ., Sikka (Saurashtra ) Low Heat Portland Cement Ordir ary , Rapid - Harderirg 

and Low Hcat Portland Ce 

ment. 
3 CM / L - 134 

I - II -61 31-10 -64 The East India Distilleries & Rectified Spirit, Grade i IS : 323 – 1959 Specification for 
7 - 10 - 1958 Sugar Factories Ltd . , Nelliku 

Rectified Spirit (Revised ) 
ppam , South Arcot Distt., 

Madras. 
4 CM / L -- 107 , 17 -11-61 16 - 11 -62 Messrs . Assam Veneer & Say Tea - Chest Plywood Panels IS : 10 — 1953 Specification for 
4 -11- 1958 Mills Limited , 9 , Clive Row , 

Plywood Tea - Chests (Re 
Calcutta - 1, 

vised ) 
5 CML - 108 , 17 - 11 -61 16 - 11-62 The Asiatic Plynood Industries , Tea - Chest Plywood Panels IS : 10 — 1953 Specification for 
4 - 11 - 1958 30 , Strand Road , Calcutta - i . 

Plywood Tea -Chests (Retised 
6 CM / L - 144 - 16 - 10 -61 15 - 10 -62 Messrs . Bharat Pulvețising BHC Dusting Powders 

IS : 561 – 1958 Specification for 
28 - 9 - 1959 Mills Private Limited, 38- A , 

BHC Dusting Powders (Re 
Sayani Road, Bombay - 28. 

Dised ) 
7 CM / L - 145 16 - 10 -61 15 - 10 -62 Messrs. Bharat Pulverising DDT Dusting Powders 

IS : 564 – 1955 Specificat icr fc 
28 - 7 - 1959 Mills Private Limited , 38 - A , 

DDT Dusting Powders 
Sayani Road, Bombay - 28 . 
8 CM / L - 146 , 16 - 10 -61 15 - 10- 62 Messrs . Bharat Pulverising BHC Water Dispersible Powder IS : 562 — 1958 Specification for 
28 - 9 - 1959 Mills Private Limited , 38 - A , Concentrates 

BHĆ Water Dispersible 
Sayani Road , Bombay - 28 . 

Powder Concentrates ( Re 

dised ) 
9 CM / L - 147 - 16 - 10 -61 15 - 10 - 62 Messrs . Bharat Pulverising DDT Water Dispersible Powder IS : 565 – 1955 Specification for 
28 - 9 - 1959 Mills Private Limited , 38 - A , Concentrates 

DDT Water Dispersible Pow 
Sayani Road , Bombay - 28 . 

der Conæntrates . 


Sec.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER18,1961/KARTIKA27,1883 


Ipór 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(5 ) 


(7) 


62 


10 CM / L - 148 

28 - 9 - 1959 


- 


16 - 10 -61 


II CML - 150 . 

15 - 10 - 1959 


I - II -61 


12 CML- 153 . 

15 - 10 - 1959 


1- 11-61 


15 - 10 -62 Messrs. Flintock Products BHC Dusting Powders 

IS : SÓI — 1958 Specification for 
Private Limited , Belvedere 

BHC Dusting Powders (Reti 
Road , Mazagaon , Bombay - 10 . 

sed ) 
31 - 10 -62 The Packing Materials Corpora - Waterproof Packing Paper IS : 1398 — 1960 Specification 
tion , 243 Samuel Street, Bom 

for Packing Paper , Waterproof, 
bay - 3 

Bitumen Laminated . 
31 -10 -62 The Alkali & Chemical Corpora - BHC , Technical 

IS : 560 _ - 1955 Specification for 
tion of India Ltd ., 34 Chow 

BHC , Teclinical 
rioghee , Calcutta - 16 . 
19 - 9 -62 The Kassiput Company Limi- Bitumen Feits for Waterproofing IS : 1322 — 1959 Specificatiun for 
tei, 7 , Clive Row , Calcutta - 1. and Damp-Prooflag 

Bitumen Felts for Water 
( Fibre Basa Type - 2 , Grade Proofing and Damp- Proofirg . 

Ι 
( 11 ) Hessian Base Type- 3 ,Grade 


13 CM L - 193 

3 - 5 -1960 


. 


20 -9 -61 


14 CML- 231 . 

27 - 9 - 1960 


15 - 10 -61 


IS : 561 – 1959 Specification for 

BHC Dusting Powders Re 
oised ) 


, 


15 CM / L - 232 

17 - 10 - 1960 


1- 11 -61 


16 CML - 233 . 

18 - 10 - 1960 


14 - 10 -62 Messss . Bharat Pulverisirg BHC Dusting Powders 

Mills Private Ltd ., Chinch 
pokli Cross Lane , Byculla , 

Bombay - 8 . 
31 - 10 -62 Messrs . Åssam Plywood Pro - Tea - Chest Plywood Panels 

ducts , Dibrugarh , (Factory 

at Kakojan ), Assam . 
31- 10 -62 Messrs. Great Eastern Cutlery Prunicg Knives, Hooked and 

Works , 20 Strand Rrad , Cal- Curved 

cutta - I. 
31 - 10 -62 The Vegetable Soap Works, Big Toilet Soap 

Bazar, Calicut- I (Kerala 

State ) 
31 - 10- 62 Messrs . Republic Engg . Corpo . Bicycle Bottom Bracket Fixed 

Limited , . , Choyringhee Cups 

Road , Calcutta - 13. 
31 - 10 -62 The Stoneware Pipes (Madras) Salt-Glazed Stocerare Pipes 
Ltd ., Trivellore . 

up to and Including 6 dia 
meter 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER18,1961/KARTIKA27,1889[PART4 


I- 11 -61 


IS : 10 — 1953 Specification for 
Plywoot Tea- Chests (Re 

Erised ) 
IS : 619 – 1955 Specification for 

Pruning Knives, Hooked and 

Curved . 
IS : 284 – 1951 Specification for 

Toilet Soap 


17 CM :L - 235 . 

18 - 10 - 1960 


I - 11 -61 


18 


CM L - 236 
18 - 10 - 1960 


. 


1- 11-61 


IS : 1133 — 1958 Specification for 
Bicycle Bottom Bracket Fixed 

Cur . 
IS : 651 – 1955 Specification for 

Sali-Glazed Stoneware Pipes 
and Fittings 


19 CML- 237 

18 - 10 - 1960 


1 - 11 -61 


No. MD / 12 : 301 
LAL C . VERMAN , Director . 


SEC. 3 (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27 , 1883 2062 


MINISTRY OF JEALTH 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1961 
S . O . 2710 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the 
Aircraft Act 1934 ( 22 of 1934 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules to amend the Indian Aircraft ( Public Health ) Rules, 1954 , the samc having 
been previously published as required by section 14 of the said Act, namely : 

1 . These Rules may be called the Indian Aircraft (Public Ilealth ) Amend 
ment Rules , 1961. 
2 . In the Indian Aircraft (Public Health ) Rules, 1954, 
( i) in sub -rule 1 ( b ) of rule 6 , for the words " a copy of that part of the Air 

craft General Declaration which contains the health information 
specified in Schedule 11 ” , the words " the health part of the Aircraft 
General Declaration which shall conform to the model specified in 

Schedule II" , shall be substituted ; 
( ii ) for Schedule II, the following Schedule shall be substituted , namely :- - 

" SCHEDULE II 

( See rule 6 ) 

DECLARATION OF HEALTH 
Persons on board known to be suffering from illness other than airsickness or 
thc effects of accidents , as well as those cases of illness disembarked during the 


111ght 


. . . . 


. 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Any other condition on board which may lcad to the spread of diseases . . . . . . 

Details of each dişinsccting or sanitary treatment ( place, date , time method ) 
during the fight. If no disinsecting has been carricd out during the fight give 
details of most recent disinsecting . . . 

SGD , if required, 


Crew member concerned " . 

[No. F . 15 - 1/ 61 - IH . ] 
BASHESHAR NATH , Under Secy . . 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1961 
S . O . 2711. — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Drugs 
Rules , 1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs Act , 1940 ( 23 of 1940) , 
after consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board is published as re 
quired by the suid sections for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into con 
sideration on or after the 31st January , 1962. Any objection or suggestion 
which may be received from any person with respect to the said draft before the 
date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 
1 . These rulcs may be called the Drugs ( Amendment) Rules , 1961, 

2. In the Drugs Rulcs, 1945 , ( 1 ) For rules 114 to 119 the following rules shall 
be substituted namely : - - 

" 114 . The tests as prescribed in rules 118 to 119 , for the presence of living 
aerohic or anaerobic bacteria and fungi and such other tests prescribed in 
Schedule F , if any , shall be carried out by the manufacturer in respect of the 
following items: — 

(a ) sera and solutions of serum proteins intended for injection ; 
( b ) bacterial vaccines to which Part I ( A ) of Schedule F . applics ; 
( c ) other vaccines intended for parenteral administration ; 


2964 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1888 [PART II 


( d ) vaccines , antigens and mixtures of toxins of antigens with serum 

intended to be used for immunising treatment or for diagnosis by 

inoculation of the patient; 
( e ) solutions and suspensions of insulin ; 
( t) dry preparations of drugs intended for parenteral use ; 
( g ) preparations of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body intended for 

use by injection , 
( h ) any other preparations in a form to be administered parenterally 

except preparations which , after being sealed in containers , have 
been sterilized by heat, in a manner satisfactory to the licensing 

authority ; 
(1 ) preparations from cultures of pathogenic organisms in a form to be 

administered orally , which are required to be sterile ; 


Provided that 


(1 ) in the case of dry preparations of drugs intended for parenteral uge 

the tests applied may be with such modifications as the licensing 
authority may consider necessary , and ( ii ) if a manufacturer satis 
fies the licensing authority that he has already in use tests for the 
presence of living aerobic and anaerobic bacteria or fungi in any 
of the above named substances and that these tests , as applied by 
him will detect the presence of such micro - organisms in the sub 
stance as ready for issue with a certainty at least equal to that 
afforded by the application of the tests prescribed by this Part , the 
Licensing Authority may approve the use of such tests in the place 
of the prescribed tests , but in such a case the authority may at any 
time withdraw such approval and require the manufacturer to 
carry out the prescribed tests . 


115 . Application of tests for sterility . — The tests as prescribed in rules 116 to 
119 shall be applied 
( a ) to samples taken from the final bulk material of each batch of the 

product before filling in final containers , and 
( b ) to samples taken from each final lot of final containers, 


116 . Amount of samples. The samples required to be taken under the last 
preceding rule shall be taken in the following proportions: 


( a ) For bulic material. - The quantity taken shall be not less than 0 - 1 per 

cent. of the total volume of the batch if the volume is not more than 
10 ltres , and not less than 10 ml, if the volume is 10 litres or more , 
but shall in no case be less than 2 ml. if only two scparate media 
are used as prescribed in rule 118 ( 1 ) ( a ) or not less than 3 ml. if 
three scparate media are used as prescribed in rule 118 ( 1 ) ( b ) . In 
the case of solid substances the quantity taken shall be not less than 
100 mg. if only two separate media are used as prescribed in rule 
118 ( 1 ) ( a ) or 150 mg, if three separate media are used as prescribed 

in rule 118 ( 1 ) ( b ) . 
Provided that if at the time when the test is made the batch is contained 

in a number of bulk containers , samples in the foregoing proportions 
shall be taken from each of such bulk containers and be separately 

tested ; 
(b ) For final containers , — The number of containers taken for test from 

every batch shall be not less than 2 per cent of the total number of 
final containers in the batch or 20 containers whichever is less taken 
at random from the batch and if so required by the Licensing 
Authority an additional two containers from each thousand or part 

of a thousand after the first. 
117 . Method of preparing media . The tests shall be on suitable fluid media 
capable of promoting the vigorous growth of common micro - organisms. The 
media used for detecting the growth of derobic and anaerobic bacteria , and 
tungi shall be those described in Part XII - G , of Schedule F , 


sxc . 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27 , 1889 


2965 


118 . Method of Testing . - ( 1) For Bulk Material ( a ) Where two separate media 

are used for the detection of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria and for 
the detection of fungi respectively . — 2 ml of the sample taken from 
each of the bulk containers shall be inoculated into tubes or other 
vessels containing the media , half of the volume being used for 
aerobic and anaerobic test and the remaining for fungus test . In 
case of solid substances a quantity corresponding to 100 mg. shall be 
taken and divided into two equul parts onc part being used for the 
aerobic and anaerobic test and the remaining part for the fungus 

test. 
(b ) Where three separate media are used for the detection of aerobic 

bacteria , anaerobic bacteria and fungi. — 3 ml. of the sample taken 
from each of the bulk containers shall be divided into three equal 
portions, one portion each being used for the aerobic , anaerobic and 
fungus test respectively . In case of solid substances a quantity cor 
responding to 150 mg, shall be taken and divided into three equal 
parts one part each being used for the acrobic , anaerobic and fungus 

test respectively , 
( 2 ) For Final Containers 
( a ) Where two separate media are used for the detection of aerobic and 

anaerobic bacteria and for the detection of fungi respectively . When 
the volume in the container is 2 ml. or more, 1 ml. shall be used 
for each test. When the volume in the container is less than 2 ml. 
the contents shall be divided into two approximately equal parts 
one part being used for the aerobic and anaerobic test and the re 
maining for fungus test. In case of solid substances a quantity 
corresponding to 100 milligrams from each container or the entire 
content if the quantity is less than 100 mgm shall be taken . The 
quantity taken shall be divided into two equal parts , one part being 
used for the aerobic and anaerobic test and the remaining for the 

fungus test . 
( b ) Where three separate media are used for the detection of aerobic 

bacteria , anaerobic bacteria and fringi. — When the volume in the 
container is 3 ml. or more, 1 ml. shall be used for each test . When 
the volume in the container is less than 3 ml, the contents of the 
container shall be divided in three cqual parts one part being used 
for each test . In the case of solid substances a quantity correspond 
ing to 150 mg. from each container or the entire contents if the 
quantity in each container is less than 150 mg. shall be taken . The 
quantity shall be divided into three equal parts each being used for 

the aerobic, anaerobic and fungus test respectively . 
( 3 ) In the case of every substance which is itself bactericidal or bacteriostatic 

and of every preparation to which a bactericide or bacteriostatic has 

been added , there shall be added to the sample before it is tested : 
( a ) such a volume of medium as will dilute the bactericide or bacteriosta 

tic so as to render it ineffective , or 
(b ) such a substance in such concentration as will neutralise the bacterici 

dal or bacteriostatic activity of the preparation being tested without 

inhibiting the growth of micro -organisms. 
( 4 ) The inoculated tubes or vessels used for the aerobic and anaerobic test 

shall be incubated at 30° to 32°C for at least seven days while the 
tubes used for the fungus test shall be incubated at 22° to 25°C for 
10 days. All the incubated tubes , shall be examined daily and records 

shall be kept of the results of the cxamination of each tube" . 
119 . ( 1 ) If at this examination no growth of microorganisms is found in any 
tubes the sample may be treated as having passed the test. 

( 2 ) ( a ) If at the examination a growth of micro - organism is found in any 
tube , a further sample shall be taken from the batch in the quantity specified in 
rule 118 and the test repeated . If on examination of the further sample, no 
growth of micro - organism is found the sample shall be regarded as having passed 
the test, but it growth occurs and if the micro - organism found is the same as 
was found in the first sample tested , the batch shall be treated as not sterile and 
the material contained in the batch shall not be issued or used as a part of a 
further batch . 


2066 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27 , 1888 [PART II 


(b ) It on such examination a micro - organism is found which is not the same 
as was found in the first test, the test shall be repeated on a third sample taken 
from the batch in the quantity specified in rule 118 . If on examination of this 
samplo no growth of micro - organism is found the batch shall be regarded as 
having passed the test; but if any micro - organism is found the batch shall be 
treated as not sterile and the material contained in the batch shall not be issued 
or used as a part of a further batch , 

( C ) No container shall be issued before a sample from the batch of which it 
forms part is regarded as having passed the test, 

( 3 ) The records of sterility tests shall be maintained which shall include the 
following particulars : --- 

( a ) Serial number. 
(b ) Name of the product. its Batch Number and Batch Size. 
( c ) Whether bulk or final container . 
( d ) Number of samples used for sterility test. 
( e ) Name of antiseptic and its concentration , 
( f ) The volume of the inoculum . 
( 8 ) The volume of the culture medium . 
( h ) The date of inoculation . 
( i) The daily observation of each inoculated tube during the period of in 

cubation " . 
( 2 ) In Schedule F , after Part XII - F , the following new Part shall be insert 


ed :- 


100 g 


IIOIICIC 


I 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


" Part XII- G . 
Formula and method of preparation of the media used for sterility test 
( 1 ) Media for detection of Aerobic bacteria : 
Meat Extract . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 

5 : 0 g . 
Peptone . . . , 
Sodium Chloride . . . 

. . . . . . . . 50 g . 
Distilled Water 

CLC : : : : . 11 . . . . . . . . . . 1, 000 ml, 
Preparation .- -Mix the ingredients and heat gently with shaking until solution 
is effected . Filter the hot mixture through good quality Alter paper. Adjust the 
reaction with N . sodium Hydroxide so that after sterilisation the pH lies between 
8 . 8 to 7 - 0 , Autoclave at 120°C for five minutes to precipitate phosphates . Filter 
hot through a muslim Alter. Distribute 15 ml of the medium Into suitable test 
tubes and autoclave at 115°C for 20 minutes ( twenty minutes from the time the 
temperature reaches 115°C ) . 


( 2 ) Media for detection of anaerobic bacteria . — The medium is similar to the 
one used for detecting aerobic bacterla with the addition of either ( a ) suficient 
heat coagulated muscle to occupy a depth of at least 1 cm . of the bottom of the 
container, or , ( b ) substances which can decrease the exidation - reduction potcn 
tial of the final medium sufficiently to permit the growth of obligate anaerobic 
organisms ( an exidation reduction potential indicator such as methylene blue may 
be added ). After the final sterilisation , the pH of the medium lies between 7 . 4 to 
7 . 5 . Before inculation the tubes containing the media should be heated for 15 
minutes in boiling water and cooled . 


( 3 ) Media for detection of fungi and yeast: — 
Maltose 

40 g . 
Paptone . . . 

10 g 

20 g . 
Distilled Water . . . . . . 

. 1, 000 ml. 
Instead of maltose , malt extract or pure dextrose can be used . 

Preparation . - Mix all the ingredients in a container with the agar suspension 
prepared 24 hours in advance. Place in the autoclave and heat slowly until 
120°C is reached . Cool to about 40°C . Shake the container , Filter hot through 
a good quality filter paper , Place the medium is suitable culture tubes , sterilise 
at 115°C for 20 minutes and allow to set in a slanting position ." 

[No, F . 1- 57 /61 - D .) 
B . B . L , BHARADWAJ, Under Secy . 


C. XIH)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1889 2967 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 2712 . -- In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian Tole 
graph Rules , 1951 as introduced by S . O . No . 627 , dated the 8th March , 1960 , the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 1st day of December , 
1961, as the date on which the measured rate system will be introduced in 
Jamnagar telephone system . 

[ No. 11 -18/ 61 - PHA. 

RAMA KANT, 
Director of Telephones ( E ) . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Railway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1961 
S . O . 2713 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President is pleased to make the following amendment to 
the Railway Services (Authorized Pay ) Rules , 1960, published with the Ministry 
of Railways Notification No. PC -59 /ROP / 1 / 1 of 2nd August 1960, namely : 

1. In Railway Services (Authorized Pay ) Rules , 1960, in rule 8 , for explana 
tion 3 , the following explanation shall be substituted ; namely : - - 
" Explanation 3 . - Where a Railway Servant exercises the option under clause 

(b ) to retain the existing scale in respect of a post held by him in an 
officiating capacity for the purpose of regulation of pay in that scale 
under Rule 2017 ( FR22) or 2027 ( FR31 ) of the Indian Railway 
Establishment Code, Volume II, his substantive pay shall be the sub 
stantive pay which he would have drawn had he retained the existing 
scale in respect of the permanent post on which he holds a lien or 
would have held a lien had his lion not been suspended ” . 

[No. PC -60 /ROP / 2 / 1. ] 
D . V . REDDY, Secy . 


Permanent bawn had to pay 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 2714. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public Pre 
mises ( Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 ( 32 of 1958 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply No. S . O , 307 , 
dated the 28th January , 1959, namely : 

In the table below the said notification , for the entries in column 1 against 
Serial No. 13 ( a ), (b ) and ( c ), the following shall be substituted , namely : 
13 ( a ) Postmaster-General, Gujarat Circle , Ahmedabad . 

Postmaster -General, Bengal Circle, Calcutta , 
Postmaster -General, Bihar Circle , Patna . 
Postmaster -General, Bombay Circle , Bombay , 
Postmaster -General, Punjab Circle , Ambala . 
Postmaster -General, Madras Circle , Madras, 
Postmaster -Gencral, Central Circle , Nagpur. 
Postmaster -General, Andhra Circle , Hyderabad , 
Postmaster -General, U . P . Circle , Lucknow , 
Postmaster -General, Mysore Circle, Bangalore . 


( b ) Director of P . & T ., Orissa Circle , Cuttack . 

Director of P . T ., Assam Circle , Shillong. 
Director of P . & T ., Rajasthan Circle , Jaipur. 
Director of P . T ., Kerala Circle, Trivandrum . 


శవాయువు 


2968 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/KARTIKA 27 , 1883 [Part ] 


( C ) General Manager , Telephones, Calcutta . 

General Manager , Telephones, Bombay . 

General Manager , Telephones , New Delhi, 
( d ) District Manager , Telephones, Madras , 
( e ) Manager, Telegraph Workshops, Calcutta . 

Manager , Telcgraph Workshops, Jabalpur. 

Manager, Telegraph Workshops , Bombay . 
( f) Director, Postal Services, Delhi Circle , New Delhi. 
(g ) Additional Chief Engineer, Jabalpur Circle, Jabalpur, 

[No. 14 / 3 /60 - Acc. ] 
R . C . MEHRA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
8 . 0 . 2715 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Iqbal Singh , Under Secre 
tary to the Government of Punjab , Rehabilitation Deptt ., Jullundur, so long as he 
holds that post , to be an Asstt. Settlement Commissioner in the State of Punjab , 
for the purpose of performing in addition to his own duties as Under Secretary to 
the Government of Punjab , the functions assigned to an Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner by or under the said Act , in respect of agricultural lands and shops 
in any rural areas including houses , cattle sheds and vacant sites , if any , in any 
such area allotted alongwith any such lands and forming part of the Compensation 
Pool. 

[No, 3 (59 ) / L & R /81.] 

M . J. SRIVASTAVA , 
Settlement Commissioner & Ex - Officio 

Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 2716 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read 
with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the following persons, after congultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors , as members of the Advisory Panel of 
the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect: 

( 1 ) Smt. Saraswati Gulrajani. 
( 2 ) Shri Najib Ashraf Nadvi, 

[No. 11 / 2 / 59 - FC . ] 
R . K . GOVIL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 2717. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Mica 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1946 ( 22 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Mica Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Rules, 1948 , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund (Amend 
ment) Rules , 1961. 

2 . In the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1948, in rule 4 after sub 
rule ( 2 ) , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , namely : - - 
" 3. IT a nominated member is unable to attend a meeting of the Advisory 

Committee, the Central Government may nominate or the body which 


Szc . 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1888 2969 


is represented by him may , by notice in writing signed on its behalf 
and by the said member, addressed to the Chairman of the Com 
mittee , depute a substitute in his place to attend that meeting. Such 
nominated or deputed member shall have all the rights of a member 
in respect of that meeting." 

[No. 23 ( 6 ) /61 -MIII. ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th November 1961 
$ . O . 2718 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Rup Narain Singh , loading clerk , Ashakutty / 
Fularitand Colliery . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 
APPLICATION No. 104 OF 1960 

(Arising out of Reference No. 27 of 1960) 
Shri Rup Narain Singh , Loading Clerk -- Applicant. 

Vs. 
The Agent, Ashakutty / Fularitand Colliery - Opposite Party . 
In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

PRESENT ; 

Shri Salim M . Merchant, Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Applicant: Shri Lalit Burman, Secretary. Bihar Koyla Mazdoor 

Sabha . 
For the opposite party : Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate, instructed by Shri 

M . R . Banerjee, Agent and Chief Mining Engineer, Ashakutty / 

Fularitand Colliery . 
STATE; Bihar, 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dated: Camp Bombay , the 25th October 1961. 

AWARD 
This is a complaint, dated 22nd December 1960 , purporting to be under section 
33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , by one Rup Narayan Singh , a loading 
clerk of the Ashakutty / Fularitand Colliery , in respect of his dismissal from 
service by notice , dated 4th September 1960. The complainant s case is that he 
was a workman concerned in the industrial dispute - Reference No. 27 of 1960 
which was pending before this Tribunal, on the date of his dismissal and that 
as the opposite party had failed to take cither its permission or approval, there 
was a violation of section 33 of the Act, and this complaint was maintainable . 

2 . The Company s notice, dated 4th September 1960 which was signed by 
Shri M . R . Banerjee, as Agent of the Colliery , addressed to the complainant stat 
ed that, " in spite of our repeated charge sheets and warning letters you could 
not rectify yourself. Due to your negligence, the company has suffered large 
loss , in the way of under charges, overloading charges , demurrages and bad load 
ing. The company has lost confidence in you . Considering all these you are 
hereby given 30 days notice and your services will not be required on and from 
5th October 1980." 

3 . Now , it is admitted that the Agent of the Colliery had filed an application , 
dated 5th September 1960, purporting to be under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 for the permission of the Tribunal to discharge the 
applicant and another workman , Shri Jadu Singh , who was working as loading 
and Depot Chaprasi in that Colliery on and from 5th September 1960, on the 
ground that due to their negligence the company had suffered considerably in 


2070 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KAR TIKA 27, 1883 [ PART II 


the way of under charges , Over - loading charges, demurrages and bad loading 
and taking excessive stores ; that the company had lost confidence in them and 
that if they were allowed to work , the mine would have to be closed down due 
to dissatisfaction of customers for bad loading. To this application the applicant 
( Rup Narayan Singh ) had filed a written statement in reply , dated 29th Septem 
ber 1960, denying the allegations made against him and stating that he had 
been working with this company for about 30 years and that in the past there 
had been no complaint against him at any time; that the management had adopt 
ed Q policy of getting rid of old employecs and that the Company s desire to 
discharge him was motivated by such an extraneous consideration , He, therc 
fore prayed that the company s application under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) for permis 
sion to discharge him should be rejected . 

4 . As however, Shri G . Palit made his award in Reference No . 27 of 1960 on 
31st October 1960 , which was published in the Government of India Gazette , 
dated 26th November 1960 , and under section 20 ( 3 ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, the proceedings in Reference No. 27 of 1960 concluded thirty days there 
after, the Tribunal became functus officio and was, therefore, unable to pass 
any orders on the management s said application ( Application No . 29 of 1760 ) 
and partics we e informed accordingly by the Tribunal s order , dated 11th March 
1961. 

5 . In the meantime, as stated earlier , this complaint under section 33A ( Appli 
cation No. 104 of 1960) was filed on 23rd December 1960 . 

6 . The opposite party in its written statement and at the hearing has urged 
the following two preliminary objections against the maintainability of this 
complaint: 
" 1 . That the complaint is not maintainable because the complainant Shri 

Rup Narayan Singh was not a workman concerned in Reference 
No . 27 of 1960 ; that the proceedings in Reference No. 27 of 1960 being 
proceedings under section 36A , of the Industrial Disputes Act, were 
not proceedings of an industrial dispute and that therefore it was 
not necessary for management to make an application either for the 
permission of the Tribunal under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) or for the approval 
of the Tribunal under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) for dismissal of the appli 

cant. 
2 . Without prejudice, the company contends that since in fact it had made 

an application under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) , being application No. 29 of 
1960 for permission of the Tribunal to dismiss the applicant, there 
was no violation of section 33 by it, and therefore this complaint was 
not maintainable ." 


7 . I have in my Award , dated 20th October 1961 in another application under 
section 36A , being application No . 99 of 1960 also arising out of Reference No. 27 
of 1960 - considered the first legal objectioni urged by Shri S . S . Mukherice and 
I have there over - ruled the said objection . The arguments urged by Shri 
Mukherjee in application No. 99 of 1960 were adopted by him in his case . For 
the reasons stated in my Award in Application No. 99 of 1960 . I rcjcct the Arst 
legal objection urged by Shri $ . S . Mukherjee . 

8 . With regard to the second legal objection urged by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , 
in my opinion the same cannot also be upheld because the application No . 29 
of 1960 , as stated therein , was filed under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) for the permission 
of the Tribunal. Now , an application for permission under section 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) can 
only lie if the dismissal is for misconduct connected with the industrial dispute 
pending before this Tribunal. Section 33 ( 1 ) is as follows: — 
" During the pendency of any conciliation proceeding before a conciliation 

officer or a Board or of any proceeding before a Labour Court or 
Tribunal or National Tribunal in respect of an industrial dispute , 

no employer shall 
(a ) in regard to any matter connected with the dispute, alter, to the 

prejudice of the workmen concerned in such dispute , the condi 
tions of service applicable to them immediately before the com 

mencement of such proceeding ; or 
( b ) for any misconduct connected with the dispute, discharge or punish , 

whether by dismissal or otherwise, any workmen concerned in 
guch dispute , 


SG $ (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1889 


2971 


m 


save with the express permission in writing of the authority before which 

the proceeding is pending." 
Now , the misconduct for which Rup Narayan Singh , was dismissed was that 
his work as loading clerk had been so negligent that the management had lost 
confidence in him . This misconduct can in no manner be deemed to be connected 
with the disputo in Reference No . 27 of 1960, which was for determining 
whether grade II or grade III wages were payablo to the workmen known as 
" Trafics . 

Shri Mukherjee in support of his contention has sought to rely upon the 
judgment of the High Court of Madras in the case of K , Lakshinarayana Rao vs. 
the State of Madras and other s ( Vol. IX , F . J . R ., p . 429 at p . 432 ) . In that case 
the company had made an application under section 33 for permission of the 
Tribunal to dismiss the concerned workman , but unfortunately the application 
was stated as being under section 33A , and the learned State Tribunal, in view 
of this mistake in the mention of the proper section of the Act, dismissed the 
application as not maintainable under section 33A . Thereafter , a complaint under 
section 33A was filed by the workman against the discharge of the some work 
men for whom the company had filed its applicant for the permission of the 
Tribunal. The Tribunal allowed this complaint on the footing that there had 
been a violation of section 33 by the management. In the Writ Petition filed 
against this Award, His Lordship Shri Rajgopal Ayyangar J. observed : - 
" The foundation of the Tribunal s Award under section 33A is a contra 

vention of section 33 and there cannot be a contravention of that 
provision when the employer applies for permission , but the Tribu 
nal refuses refers to decide whether the permission should be grant 
ed or not. Section 33A is a penal provision and cannot be held to 
be attracted to a case where an application preferred by the employer 
is refused to be decided on the merits. The Tribunal cannot say 
to an applicant under section 33 that his pctition is not maintainable 
or refrain from deciding it on the merits and at the same time 
entertain a complaint under section 33A based on the allegation that 
the employer has failed to obtain a permission under section 33 , and 
award relief on such a footing." 


The application under section 33 in the Madras casc was evidently made 
before section 33 was amended by Act 36 of 1956 . In an application under the 
old section 33 for discharge or dimissal it was not necessary that the misconduct 
for which the workman was sought to be dismissed should be one connected 
with the dispute pending before the Tribunal. All that was necessary to enable 
an application under the old section 33 to lie was that the workman should be 
a workman concerned in the dispute and the discharge applied for should take 
place during the pendency of the proceeding. But under the amended section 
33 , an application for permission to discharge or dismiss must be in connection 
with a misconduct connected with the dispute. As I have stated earlier, here 
the discharge was not sought for any misconduct connected with the subject 
matter of the dispute i.e . the misconduct was not in any sense connected with 
the proper wage scalcs of " Traffics" . The application , if at all one was main 
tainable should have been for approval under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) . But before an 
application for discharge or dismissal of a workman can be under that sub 
section , the conditions precedent prescribed by the following proviso thereto , 
should be satisfied : - 


" Provided that no such workman shall be discharged or dismissed unless 

he has been paid wages for one month and an application has been 
made by the employer to the authority before which the proceeding 

is pending for approval of the action taken by the employer." 
These are conditions precedent as held by the High Court of Bombay in the 
case of the Premier Automobiles Lid . ( 1960 I LLJ, p . 443 ) . In this case it is 
clear that the company had not paid the workman one month s wages because 
in the application No. 29 of 1960 , it had stated , the workman will be paid one 
month s salary " and had asked that express permission may kindly be granted 
to him ( applicant) to discharge the above named workers on and from 5th 
September 1960 . Thesc averments , taken from the company s application clearly 
show that even if the application No. 29 of 1960 , were to be treated as an appli 
cation under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) for approval, it was not legally maintainable 
because from the averments made in that application itself, it is clear that the 
conditions precedent as prescribed by the proviso to section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) had not 


2972 


THE GAZE I I E OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 [PART 1 


been fulfilled . In my opinon , before a complaint under section 33A can be 
rejected it is not only necessary that the employer should establish that he had 
Aled an application under section 33 , but that the application filed fulfilled all 
the requirements of section 33 . In other words that the application must be 
an application maintainable under section 33 and one which has fulflled all 
the requirements of that section . This appears to be also the reasoning adopted 
by the learned Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Shri E . Krishna Murti 
in his Award in O . P . No , 45 of 1961 — the Canara Bank Ltd . vs. S . Nagesh Kamath 
( The Gazette of India , dated 12th August 1961 at page 1910 at p . 1913 ) where , 
before up - holding the Bank s contention that there was no violation of section 
33 by it he had satisfied himself that the application filed by the Bank under 
section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) had fulflled the condition precedent prescribed by thc proviso 
to that section Shri E . Krishna Murti observed in his Award : 
" Therefore , the Bank did comply with the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) 

when dismissing the workman . If so I fail to see , how there is 
contravention of section 33 . The management filed the necessary 
application for approval in accordance with the terms of section 
33 ( 2 ) ( b ) , and complied with the requirements of that section . In 
these circumstances it is clear, that there is no contravention of 

Section 38 ." 
In the instant complaint, I am satisfied that the management s application under 
section 33 - - Application No. 29 of 1960 was clearly not maintainable under sec 
tion 33 ( 1 ) ( b ) because the misconduct with which he was charged was not in any 
gense connected with the dispute - - Reference No. 27 of 1960 — pending then before 
this Tribunal; and that if the application was to be treated as being an application 
for approval of the action of this management under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) , the appli 
cation was not maintainable because , from the averments made in the applica 
tion itself, the management had not complied with the requirements of the pro 
viso to that section . There was thus no proper application under setion 33 Aled 
by the management. It must, thereforę, be held that there was a violation of 
section 33 of the Act and therefore the complaint under section 33A , must be 
held to be maintainable . 

For these reasons I also reject the second legal objection of the management 
and proceed to deal with the complaint on its merits . 

I shall now deal with the complaint on its merits . Rup Narayan Singh was 
evidently working as a loading clerk , The union claims that he has put in 
thirty years service with the previous and the present owners of the colliery 
but the management admits his service at this colliery only since September 
1946 . It is , however , admitted that the complainant was dismissed from service 
by the company s letter , dated 4th September 1960 . The main ground for dis 
missing him was that because of his repeated negligence and failure to improve 
in spite of warnings , the company had suffered loss and damage and consequent 
ly had lost confidence in him . The company has annexed to its written state 
ment annexures A and A - 1 to E and E - 1 which are warning lettters charge 
sheets and show cause notices issued to him prior to its letter of dismissal of 
4th September 1960 . These are not disputed by the union , but its contention 
is that these warning letters were issued without any enquiry and that no enquiry 
had followed these charge - sheets . The union has pointed out that in all there 
had been four instances of under - loading and one of overloading and condsider 
ing the long period of his service with the company , it could not be said that 
the complainant had been guilty of habitual ncgligence. Shri Lalit Burman 
appearing for the union has pointed out that annexures A - 2 and A - 4 had nothing 
to do with underloading or overloading and that some of the warnings related 
to minor misconducts like use of fork for removal of rubbal from slack . The 
union , on the other hand , has relied on certain other documents collectively 
exhibit W - 1, some of which are explanations which Rup Narayan Singh had 
offered to charge sheets served against him . The union has argued that the 
dismissal was illegal as no charge - sheet was served upon Rup Narayan Singh 
charging him with specific instances of negligence in duty , and that no enquiry 
was held on such a charge - sheet as required by the certified standing orders 
applicable to colljeries. He also argued that the company has resorted to the 
vague charge of loss of confidence only with a view to getting rid of an old 
employee . The management on the other hand has relied upon Annexure E 
forming part of the annexures to the company s written statement, which is a 
charge - sheet, dated 1st July 1980 on which an enquiry ( exhibit E - 1 collectively ) , 
was held , Shri Mukherjee has relied upon a statement made in para 13 of the 
woltton statement of the union where impliedly it is admitted that an enquiry 


Suc , 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27 , 1889 


2072 


was held but that the enquiry was not a proper enquiry . Shri Mukherjee has argu 
ed that as a result of all thesc previous warnings and the findings of the enquiry 
on the charge - sheet ( part of exhibit E - 1 ) , the management s contention that 
it has lost confidence in the workman was reasonable and justified , and he has 
relied upon the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the Jubilee Mill s 
case ( Jubilee Mills Ltd . and Baburao Chintaman and another 1954 , I LLJ P . 807 ) . 
In that case, the company had , in an application under section 22 of the Indus 
trial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950 . applied to the Tribunal for per 
mission to dismiss two collies from the stores on the ground that though they 
were not found conclusively guilty of theft, the management rcaso ably suspect 
ed them to be responsible for the shortage of stores . On the iacts of that case 
it was held that as there was neither want of bona fides on the part of the 
cmployer in secking the permission nor was it a case of unfair labour practice 
or victimization , the permission for dismissal on the application under section 22 
must be granted . Their Lordships observed that employees entrusted with the 
responsible duty of handling stores must naturally continue to enjoy confidence 
of the management and it would not be in the interest of the industry if persons 
not enjoying the confidence of the management are thrust upon it to work in 
such a department. 


But on the facts and circumstances of this case , I hold that the company 
has not made out a sufficiently conyıncing case to establish the loss of confidence . 
It must be remembered that this workman had been in the service of the com 
pany for a long number of years, according to the workman for 30 years, and 
on the admission of the company for almost 14 continuous years . The union 
has alleged that the management wanted to get rid of its employees under the 
camouflage of loss of confidence in order to deprive them of the retrenchment 
and other compensation to which they would otherwise be entitled . From the 
fact that warning Ictters were issued without any enquiry and that in the past 
no enquiry was held on charge sheets and that the only enquiry held was the 
one at annexure E , it is difficult to hold on the merits , that the charge of loss 
of confidence can be deemed to have been justified . 

Apart from this , the union has argued that the order of dismissal is invalid 
and illegal as the provisions of para 28 of the standing orders had not been 
fulAlled . Para 28 of the standing orders provides that no order of punishment 
by way of dismissal, suspension or fine shall be made unless the workman has 
been given a charge - sheet, and further that the approval of the owner , agent 
or Chief Mining Engineer is necessary in every case of dismissal. It is admitted 
that the order of dismissal against the complainant was passed by Shri M . R . 
Banerjcc , who is the Agent and the Chief Mining Engineer of the colliery . In 
my award in Reference No. 51 of 1960 _ ( employers in relation to the Gaslitan 
Colliery and their workmen , published in the Gazette of India , dated 22nd April 
1901 at pp . 884 - 886 ) , I held in construing the provisions of a similar standing 
order, that where an order of dismissal was passed by the General Manager 
of the Colliery who was also the Agent of the colliery , there was not sufficient 
compliance with the standing order , and that the provision for approval of the 
mining agent or chief mining engince of the colliery to the dismissal of a work 
man is a safeguard provided in fayour of the workman , because it was intended 
that in a case of dismissal proposed by the Manager or Agent or Chief Mining 
Engincer a separate higher officer should apply his mind to the facts of the case 
and the dismissal was to take effect only when the higher officer, the owner 
in this case , had reviewed the case and had approved of the punishment of dis 
missal. In a fit case, there is also provision for a separate and independent 
cnquiry by such a higher authority . In this case , the agent of the colliery Shri 
M . R . Banerjce is also its chief mining engineer , and as the order of dismissal 
was made by him , the workman did not have the opportunity of the order of 
dismissal passed by him being considered or reviewed by another independent 
authority in the colliery . It is admitted that the owners of the colliery are 
different from its agent and chief mining engineer . Failure to secure the approval 
of the owner to the dismissal of Rup Narayan Singh must be held to be non 
compliance with the provisions of standing order No. 28 and to that extent the 
order of dismissal is defective and must be held to be illegal and , not proper . 
In the over - all result , the dismissal must be held to be not justified , 

The next question to consider is what elief should be granted to Rup Narayarr. 
In the circumstances stated above I hestitate to order his reinstatement in ser 
vice . I think this is a case where the ends of justice would be satisfied by my 
directing the management to pay to Rup Narayan Singh compensation equiva 
lent to seven months wages. In computing this amount I have taken into 
account his admitted service as stated by the company which is from September 


2074 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1888 [Parl 


- 


- 


1940 . The amount of wages shall be the basic pay plus dearness allowance 
to which he was entitled on the date of his dismissal. I further direct that this 
amount shall be paid to him within a wcek of this award becoming enforceable . 
I award Rs. 50 as costs in favour of the Union . 

( Sd .) SALIM M , MERCHANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 
[No. 1 / 87 /59- LRII . ] 


S . O . 2719 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Rajasthan Mincrals and Company , Bhilwara and their work 
men . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

BOMBAY 

REFERENCE NO . CGIT - 42 OF 1960 
Employers in relation to the Rajasthan Minerals and Co., Bhilwara 


AND 


thcir workmen . 

PRESENT 
Shri Salim M , Merchant, Presiding Omcer , 

Bombay , dated the 31st October , 1961. 
APPEAKANCES 
For the employers : Shri Ruplal Gupta , Joint Secretary , Rajasthan Minerals 

and Dealers Association , Bhilwara. 
For the workmen : No appearance. 
STATE . Rujasthan . 

INDUSTRY: Mica mining. 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. 23 / 28 / 60 -LRII, dated 15th December 1960 , made in cxcrcise of the powcrs 
conferred by clause ( d ) of suh - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947 (Act 14 of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer the industrial dispute 
between the parties above named in respect of the subject matters specified in 
the following schedule to the said order to me for adjudication . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the workmen of Rajasthan Minerals and Com 

pany, Bhilwara for grant of ten days casual leave and ten days sick 

leave in a year is justified or not ? " 
In spite of notice having been issued to the union as early as on 3rd January 
1961 to file its written statement of claim and a reminder , dated 11th May 1961, 
no written statement of claim was reccived from the union , with the Icsult that 
by notice, dated 26th August 1961 the matter was fixed for hearing on 4th Scptcm 
ber 1961 and parties were informed that if they failed to appear, the dispute 
would be disposed of for want of prosecution . Upon receipt of this notice the 
union by telegram , dated 4th September 1961 stated that since its president 
Shri Rameshchandra was busy in the Lok Sabha and the Secretary was ill they 
were unable to attend and prayed for an adjournment of the hcaring . The 
management in a telegram of the same date pressed that as the workmen had 
not filed their statement of claim , the reference should be dismissed However, 
in view of the difficulties expressed by the union , the hearing of the dispute 
was adjourned to 29th September 1961 and both parties were informed of the 
adjourned date by notice sent to them by registered post on 5th September 1961. 
By that notice the union was also given time to Alc its written statement of 
claim by 14th September 1961. Thercafter the union forwarded its written state 
ment of claim , dated 12th September 1961 which was received in the Tribunal s 


SEC. $ (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1883 


2975 


office on 16th September 1961, but it failed to furnish a copy of the same to 
the employers. Consequently , the union was directed by to furnish a copy of its 
written statement to the company and the hearing fixed for the 29th September 
1961 was adjourned . Thereafter the company filed its written statement in reply 
on 21st September 1961 and the hearing of the dispute was fixed for 12th Septem 
ber 1961 of which notice was sent to both parties by registered post. The union , 
however, did not appear at the hearing on the 12th October but sent a telegram 
stating : - 


" Mutual settlement agreed and drafter by both parties in casc No, CGIT - 42 

of 1960 on 9th . Second party refused settlement on 10th evening 
on pretext that Calcutta management denied unable attending within 
short time. Kindly adjourn date Gokulprasad, Socretary , Khan 
Mazdoor Congress , Bhilwara." 


The Union therefore remained absent at the hearing on 12th October 1961 but 
Shri Ruplal Gupta, Joint Secretary of the Rajasthan Minerals and Dealers Asso 
ciation , who appcared for the cmployer company , denied that any discussion for 
settlement had taken place as alleged in the union s telegram . He opposed the 
application for adjournment, but for the reasons stated in my diary order of that 
date , I adjourncd the hearing to 28th October 1961 and informed both parties 
by notice , dated 17th October 1961, On 28th October 1961, the date of hcaring 
a telegram , dated 27th October 1961 was received from the union praying for 
an adjournment on the ground that Shri Gokul Prasad , the Secretary of the 
Union was out of Bhilwara and was unaware that the date of hearing had been 
fixed for the 28th instant. At the hearing . Shri Ruplal Gupta , appearing for the 
cmployers, opposed the application for adjournment and he stated that Shri 
Gokul Prasad was aware of today s hearing as he ( Shri Ruplal Gupta ) had 
personally told him about it when giving copies of the four documents which he 
bad tendered before this Tribunal at the hcaring on 12th October 1961, and he 
has prayed for the reference to be disposed of for want of prosecution . 


It appears to me that the union is not serious in prosecuting this reference. 
The reference was made to this Tribunal on 15th December 1960 and notices to 
the partics to Ale their statements were issued on 3rd January 1961. The union 
ever after several months did not file its statement of claim or take any stops 
in prosccution of this reference and ultimately , only after receipt of a notice 
from this Tribunal that thc reference would be disposed of for want of prosecu 
tion did the union filc its statement of claim on 4th September 1961. Thercaſter, 
the union did not make its appearance at the hearings fixed on two occasions 
i.e . 12th October 1961 and 28th October 1961 but on both the occasions sent 
telcgrams which reached the Tribunal on the dates of hearing. These applica 
tions are unsupported by affidavits or any written applications. The union had 
on both these occasions not shown the courtesy of informing the employers of 
its intention to apply for an adjournment with the result that the iepresentative 
of the employer company had , at considerable expense to come to Bombay on 
the two dates the hearings were fixed , Shri Ruplal Gupta , appcaring for the 
employers , has challenged the grounds on which adjournment of hearing is 
sought. I am not satisfied that the union is justified in asking for adjournment 
and therefore refused the adjournment asked for. The employer s representative 
has attended the hearings on both occasions. The union s office bcarers are 
evidently under the impression that if they send a telegram to the Tribunal ask 
ing for an adjournment, the Tribunal is bound to grant the adjournment sought. 
The sooner such an crroneous impression is corrected , the better for adjudication 
of Industrial Disputes . The unions must realise that they must prosecute their 
claims under a reference with diligence , otherwise the very purpose of industrial 
adjudication is likely to be defeated . I consider that this is a fit case for dis 
posing of the reference for want of prosecution . The reference is therefore 
disposed of as non -prosecuted . 


No order as to costs . 


( Sd .) SALIM M . MERCIIANT, 

Presiding Oficer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay . 
[No. 23 /28 /60 -LRII .) 


2006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27 , 1888 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1961 
S . O . 2720 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Central Kurkend Coal Company Ltd ., P . O . Kusunda and their 
workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

CALCUTTA , 

REFERENCE No. 3 OF 1961. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Central Kurkend Coal Company Limited , 
P . O . Kusunda 

AND 

Their workmen , 
PRESENT; 

Shri L . P . Dave, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES ; 

For the Employer: Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate . 

For the Workmen : Shri Gulab Gupta . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 
Dated October 31, 1961, 

AWARD 
The Management in relation to the Central Kurkend Coal Company Limited 
and the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Dhanbad , jointly applied to the Central Govern 
ment for referring an industrial dispute to a Tribunal in respect of the matters 
set forth below and thereupon the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
& Employment, by thcir order No . 1 / 13 /60 - LR , II, dated 5th September , 1960, 
referred the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
By a subsequent order No. 4 / 90 / 61 -LR . II, dated 9th June , 1961, the proceedings in 
relation to the above dispute have been transferred from the Dhanbad Tribunal 
to this Tribunal for disposal according to law : - - 

Terms of Reference 
I. Whether the transfer of the following persons from Central Kurkend 

Collicry of M / s. Central Kurkend Coal Co. Ltd . by the said com 
pany to the different collicries shown against the names of cach , 
belonging to different companies under the same Managing agency 
was legal and justificd ? What relief are they entitled to ? 


( 1 ) Shri Khublal Mistry , 

Electrician . 


( 2 ) Shri Kishunlala , 

Munshi. 


( 3 ) Shri Hulc Barhi, 

Mining Sirdar. 


( 4 ) Shri Bhabani Barhi, 

Mining Sirdar. 
(5 ) Shri Rahamali Mian , 

Mining Sirdar . 


Kharkharee Colliery of M / s. Bharat 

Mining Co : poration ( P ) Ltd . 
Pathergoria Colliery of M / s . Bharat 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
Babisole Colliery of M / s . Bharat 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
Babisole Colliery of M / s . Bharat 

Mining Co : poration ( P ) Ltd . 
Babisole Colliery of M / s. Bharat 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
Kharkharee Colliery of M / s. Bharat 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
Kharkharee Colliery of M / s . Bharat 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 


(6 ) Smt. Budhani Kamin , 

Sweepe . 


(7 ) Smt. Hemia Kamin , 

Sweeper . 


SEC , 8 ( ii ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27 , 1883 


2977 


( 8 ) Smt. Kusmi Kamin , 

Kharkharee Calliery of M / s. Bharat 
Sweeper . 

Mining Corporatlon ( P ) Ltd , 
(9) Shri Ashraf Mia, 

Kharkharee Colliery of M / s. Bharat 
Driller. 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
( 10 ) Shri Kalicharan Dusad, Babisole Colliery of M / s, Bharat 
Line Mistry . 

Mining Co : poration ( P ) Ltd . 
( 11 ) Shri Kcdar Dasadh , 

Babisole Colliery of M / s. Bharat 
Line Mistry . 

Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
II. Whether the termination of service of Shri Ram Sahai Bhuia was justi 

fied ? To what relief he is entitled to ? 
III. Whether the company was justified in not providing Shri Rameshwar 

Dusadh with light job as recommended by the Central Hospital, Coal 
Mines Welfare Organisation , Dhanbad ? To what relief he is entitled 

to ? 
IV . Whether the retrenched workers who have been paid retrenchment 

compensation only for the years they put in 240 attendances should 
be paid the compensation for the rest of the whole length of their 
service period provided they have put in 240 attendances in any 

of the years of their service with the company ? 
V . What lump sum amount should be given to Shri Sodagar Singh . Tyndal 

Mazdoor considering his present pitiable condition ? 
By their written statement, thc workmen contended that the eleven workmen 
mentioned in item No. 1 of the dispute were working in the Central Kurkend 
Colliery for a period of more than 15 years ; that in 1958 more than 400 work 
men were retrenched by the Company and paid retrenchment compensation ; 
that with a view to avoid payment of retrenchment compensation and to harass 
and victimise the above workmen , the Management served notices to these work 
men of transfer to different companies on frivolous grounds; that they protested 
and challenged the order of transfer , but the Management completely ignored 
tho workmen s representations; that the order of transfer is mala fide, illegal and 
unjustified and is tantamount to the discharge from services and the workmen 
should , therefore, be reinstated with full wages. The workmen further contend 
ed that so far as second item of the dispute was concerned , the services of Shri 
Ram Sahai Bhuia were terminated on the ground of defect in his eyes ; that this 
was not so ; that in any case the said workman was entitled to pavment of 
retrenchment compensation . Regarding item No. 3 of the dispute , the work 
men contended that the Management ought to have provided Shri Rameshwar 
Dusadh with a light job or in alternative he should have been paid retrenchment 
compensation . The workmen s case regarding item No. 4 is that Sections 25B 
and 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act have been wrongly interpreted by the 
Management, who have paid retrenchment compensation to the workmen only 
for those years in which they had put in an attendance of 240 days or more 
and did not pay any retrenchment compensation for those years in which they 
had put in an attendance of less than 240 days and that this interpretation is not 
correct. The workmen s contention in respect of item No. 5 of the dispute 
is that Shri Sodagar Singh had served the Company for about 30 years ; that he 
had met with an accident while on duty ; that as a result his health had been 
ruined ; that he is in a miserable condition and even on humanitarian grounds 
his case deserved favourable consideration ; and , that he should be given retrench 
ment compensation and a further sum of Rs. 500 as er -gratia payment. 

The employers by their written statement contended that on closure of some 
of the pits of the colliery , they had to retrench some workmen and transfer 
some of them to other collieries; that these transfers did not adversely affect 
their service conditions ; that the Central Kurkend Colliery, the Kharkharee 
Colliery and the Babisole Colliery were under the management of Shri S . C . 
Jain who was common Director of all the three collieries and that he was com 
petent to order the transfer of workmen of Central Kurkend Colliery to either 
Kharkharec or Babisole Colliery . The employers further contended that Shri 
Ram Sahai Bhula who was winding Engine Khalasi was on examination found 
to be suffering from cataract and incapable to serve due to loss of vision and 
his services, were , therefore terminated and that this did not amount to retrench 
ment. The employers then alleged that they were under no legal obligation 


2978 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 (Part II 


to offer a light job to workman that still they offered a light job of loading 
mazdoor to Rameshwar Dusadh ; but, that when the wagon supply became low , 
even the permanent wagon loaders were offered alternate jobs and Rameshwar 
Duşadh was offered job of stacking hard çoke which was less strenuous than 
wagon loading, but he refused to accept it . The employers then contended that 
their interpretation of Section 25B and 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act is 
correct and that for the purpose of computing retrenchment compensation , only 
those years during which a workman had completed attendance of 240 days 
could be taken into consideration . Regarding the last item of dispute , the 
employers urged that Shri Sodagar Singh met with an accident on 5th October 
1958 ; that he resumed his duties on 23rd October 1956 ; that he worked upto 
3rd May 1957; that compensation due to him was paid to him ; that after this he 
became totally incapable of performing any work ; that his case was taken up 
by the Union and in course of conciliation proceedings, an agreement was reach 
ed according to which his son was given the job of Tyrdal Mazdoor on a perma 
nent basis and hence the claim on behalf of Sodagar Singh was not tenable . 


The first dispute between the parties is regarding the transfer of eleven 
workmen . It is not in dispute that the eleven workers were working at the 
Central Kurkend Colliery of Messrs . Central Kurkend Coal Company Limited for 
several years. Five of them were transferred to Kharkharee Colliery , and other 
five to Babisole Colliery and one to Pathorgoria Colliery. These thrce collieries 
belong to Messrs . Bharat Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . The employers case is 
that as they had not enough work in the Central Kurkend Colliery, these work 
men were transferred to the other collierles. The workmen urge that this trans 
fer was illegal and unjustified , 


According to the employers, all the above collleries are managed by Shri 
S . C . Jain , who is the resident Director of all of them . Admittedly , the Central 
Kurkend Colliery belongs to Messrs . Central Kurkend Coal Company Limited 
which company has four or five directors , Shri S . C . Jain being one of them . 
The other three collicries belong to Messrs . Bharat Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd . 
which has several directors and Shri S . C . Jain is also one of them . Shri 
S , C . Jain is said to be the resident Director of all the collleries and as such he is 
managing their affairs. It is urged on behalf of the employers that they had 
a right to transfer the workmen from one colliery to another because all the 
collleries are under the same management and in this connection reliance is 
placed on order 26 of the Standing Orders. The relevant portion of this order 
is , " all workmen are liable to be transferred from one colliery to another under 
the same management provided such transfer does not cause any prejudice to 
their wages and other conditions of service." 

Under the above order , a workman can be transferred from one colliery to 
another if both of them are under the same management and the important 
clause for conciliation would , therefore, be whether the Central Kurkend Colliery 
is under the same management as Kharkharee colliery. Babisole colliery and 
Pathergoria colliery . 

Unfortunately , the word management has not been defined under the 
standing orders. The word is, however , sought to be interpreted in the same 
manner as Managing Agents. In my opinion , however , such an interpretation 
would not be correct. 

Admittedly the above four collieries belong to different owners , who have 
different Boards of Directors . Shri Ş . C . Jain derives his authority to manage 
the different collieries from the Boards of Directors of the respective companies . 
Naturally , he cannot mix up the affairs of one company with that of another . 
Further , he would be acting as an Agent for his principals , namely , the owners 
of the different companies . He can not have more powers than what his princi 
pals have got. The Central Kurkend Coal Company Limited would have no 
power to transfer one of their workmen to Messrs. Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limited . If Central Kurkend Coal Co. have no such power , their agent Shri S . 
C . Jain also could not have any such power . 


In my opinion , it could not be said that the Central Kurkend Colllery was 
under the same management as the other collieries merely because they had the 
same resident Director . As I said above, the said Director could have no power 
to mix up affairs of the different companies and he could have no power 
to transfer the services of a workman of one company to another . In this con 
nection , it may be noted that it may sometimes happen that one of the concerns 
may be in afluent circumstances while another may not be so , Another concern 
may even be under Insolvent circumstances. A person transferred from an 


Sec. 8 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1883 


2979 


afluent concern to a poor concern would be put in an worse position because 
not only would his continuity in service be uncertain but in case of retrench 
ment he may find the other concern not able to pay to him cven the retrench 
ment compensation . I do not think , therefore , that two different collieries owned 
by two different concerns can be said to be under the same management only 
because they have a common resident Director. Further , such a transfer cannot 
be sald to be such as would not cause prejudice to the conditions of service . I, 
therefore, hold that the transfer of the eleven persons mentioned in item 1 of 
the terms of reference was not legal and was not justified and the employer must 
reinstate them in their original jobs and also pay them full wages for the period 
from the date of their transfer to the date of reinstatement in their original jobs. 

The second point of dispute between the parties is regarding the termination 
of services of one Shri Ram Sahal Bhula . It is not in dispute that this person 
was working as a winding Engine khalasi. It appears that while he was on 
duty on 3rd May 1959 , there was a case of over winding and on enquiry it was 
found that he was feeling unwell. He was then examined first by the colliery 
Medical Officer and later on by the Doctor of the Central hospital and it was 
found that he was suffering from cataract in both eyes. He was thereupon dis 
charged from service . It is urged that the termination of his service was unjust 
and he should , therefore, bc reinstated with back wages or at any rate retrench 
ment compensation should be given to him . 

It was contended at the hearing before me that cataract was not an incurable 
disease and that the workman would have been able to serve if his eyesight 
improved as a result of an operation ; and that as there was no permanent dis 
ability , his discharge was premature . There is , however , nothing to show 
whether the disease was incurable or not nor is there anything to show that the 
workman asked for leave for an operation or the like. Actually from the written 
statement of the workmen , it appears that this worker had put in more than 40 
years of service and must have been quite old . 


Apart from this, the question about this worker is now not very important 
because he is now dead . The question of his reinstatement, therefore , does not 
survive. It was, however , urged that retrenchment compensation should have 
been given to him and as he is dead it should be given to his legal representa 
tives . It may be noted that this Tribunal is not working as a Civil court. It can 
not be said that as the worker is dead , his legal representative should be brought 
on record or that payment due to the worker should now be ordered to be paid 
to his legal representatives . This Tribunal has to decide industrial disputes . The 
dispute in this particular case was regarding the discharge of a particular work 
man and what was claimed was that either he should be reinstated or retrench 
ment compensation should be given to him , He being dead , the industrial dispute 
does not survive and I think it would not be open to this Tribunal to pass any 
order regarding retrenchment compensation in favour of his representatives. 

The third dispute between the parties is regarding a workman named 
Shri Rameshwar Dusadh . It appears that this worker was not in good health 
and it is said that a light job was recommended to him . It is contended that he 
should have been given a light job or if no light job was available , he should 
have b en given retrenchment compensation . It was also alleged that it was 
agreed during conciliation proceedings that a light job of a guard would be given 
to him and that such was given to him for a few months, but thereafter he was 
thrown out of employment. This allegation about an agreement to give him the 
job of a guard has been denied by Sri Jain in his deposition . He also said that 
this workman has never worked as a guard . The allegations of the workmen 
on this point can not , therefore, be accepted . 

The Management have urged that there was no legal obligation on their part 
to offer a light job to any workman ; that still they offered him the light job of a 
loading mazdoor ; that later on the wagon supply became worse and they had , 
therefore , to offer alternate Jobs even to permanent wagon loaders and they 
thereafter offered the job of stacking hard coke to Rameshwar Dusadh which he 
refused to accept. These allegations of the employers are borne out by their 
letters , copies of which have been produced at Annexure 6 , 6A and 6B (the 
originals have also been produced ). 

I agree with the contention of the management that they are not bound to 
provide a light job to any workman , Of course it may be considered desirable 
that the Management showed humane considerations to every case and if a 
person was found not in good health , he may if possible , be given a lighter job . 
But, that would be a matter entirely in the discretion of the management and no 
one could say that the employer was bound to give a job involving light work to 


2080 


SHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27 , 1889 [PART II 


a particular worker. If, therefore , the management refused to give a light job 
to this worker , it could not be said that they were wrong in doing so and the 
worker could not claim any compensation from the employer for being thrown 
out of his usual job . The decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case 
of Udipi Sri Krishna Bilash , Madras reported at 1955 — Vol — II , L . L . J. 43 supports 
this view . 


Apart from this , it appears that so far as this worker was concerned , the 
management did give him a light job , namely the job of a loading mazdoor. It 
appears, however , that later on the wagon supply position became worse and 
the Management were forced to offer alternate jobs even to their permanent 
loaders. Accordingly they offered the job of stacking hard coke to Rameshwar 
Dusadh . This worker however , said that he was very weak and if he did the 
job of stacking hard coke , he would fall ill and he should , therefore , be given the 
job of loading. The management replied to him that the position of wayon supply 
was very low and uncertain and henc - they were forced to offer alternate jobs 
to their loading mazdoors. They further said that there was no difference in 
the workload and nature of work betwcen wagon loading and hard coke stacking 
and that if he was able to do the job of wagon loading, he could also do the 
job of hard coke stacking. There is no evidence belore me to show that the 
work of stacking hard coke is more streneous than that of wagon loading and 
it could not be said that the work offered to this worker was harder than the 
work he was doing . The workman cannot insist on a particular kind of work 
being given to him . He was given a light job and that joh had to be changed 
because of the shortage of wagon supply , The nature of work was not harder 
and it could not be said that he was not provided with a light job . I would , 
therefore, hold firstly that the Management were within their rights in refusing 
to provide a light job to Sri Rameshwar Dushad and secondly that they did 
provide him with a light job . Sri Rameshwar Dushad is thus not entitled to any 
relief. 

The next dispute between the parties is regarding the interpretation of Sections 
25B and 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act . It appears that certain workers 
were r - trenched by the Company and retrenchment compensation was paid to 
them . In doing so , only those years in which the workers had put in an 
attendance of 240 days were taken into account, while the years in which the 
attendance was less than 240 days were not taken into account. The workmen 
contend that once a person has put in an attendance of 240 days during a period 
of twelve calendar months, he is entitled to claim retrenchment compensation 
and thereafter he should be paid retrenchment compensation for the total length 
of his service , irrespective of the fact whether in a particular year he has or he 
has not put in attendance of 240 days. On the other hand, the Management urge 
that the workmen can get retrenchment compensation only in respect of those 
years in which they have put in an attendance of at least 240 days . 

Section 25F lays down the conditions precedent to the retrenchment of work 
men . The section lays down that no workman employed in any industry who 
has been in continuous service for not less than one year under an employer 
shall be retrenched by that employer until the conditions laid down in clauses 
( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) are fulflled . Clause ( b ) refers to the payment of retrenchment 
compensation and it lays down that " the workman has been paid , at the time of 
retrenchment , compensation which shall be equivalent to Afteen days average 
pay for every completed year of service or any part thereof in excess of six 
months" . The clause " one year of continuous service " is defined in section 25B 
and it lays down inter alia that a workman , who, during a period of twelve 
calendar months, has actually worked in an industry for not less than 240 days 
shall be deemed to have completed one year of continuous service in the industry " . 

Thus Section 26F lays down that a person would be entitled to retrenchment 
compensation only if he has been in continuous service for not less than one 
year . The rate of compensation is laid down in clause (b ) and it is that it will 
be equivalent to Afteen days average pay for every completed year of service 
or any part thereof in excess of six months. 

The dispute between the parties is about the interpretation of the words every 
completed year of service and according to the employers , a person cannot 
claim compensation for any year in which he has not put in an attendance of 240 
days. In my opinion , this interpretation is erroneous. There is nothing in clause 
(b ) to justify that completed year of service means a year in which a person 
has put in an attendance of at least 240 days. An attendance of 240 days is 
necessary for the purpose of considering if a person has completed one year of 
continuous service and if he puts in attendance of 240 days during the period of 
12 calendar months, he would be deemed under section 25B to have completed 


Sec . 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1888 


2981 


one year of continuous service . As soon as that is done, he becomes entitled to 
retrenchment compensation and in computing the amount payable to him , one 
will have to se : the total period of service he has completed . In calculating this 
period of completed years service, It cannot be said that only the years in which 
he has put in an attendance of 240 days should be taken into account. As I said 
above, there is nothing in section 25F or in any oth - r section to justify such an 
interpretation . Actually , the words are , " a person would get compensation at a 
particular rate for every completed year of service or any part thercof in excess 
of six months." If the attendance of 240 days is compulsory for considering 
completed years of service, then the words any part threof in excess of 6 
months would have no meaning . 

I may here refer to the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of 
J . N , Shogalę Vs. Now India Rayon Mill Co. Ltd . 1958 - - Vol - 1, LLJ. 28 on which 
roliance was placed before mo by both the sides. In that case, it has been held 
that a combined reading of sections 25B and 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act 
makes it clear that if a workman established , that he has, to begin with , put in 
continuous service for not less than one year, he would forthwith be cntitled to 
claim r trenchment compensation for every completed year of service and that 
this would be so notwithstanding the fact that in any particular calendar ycar, 
he has worked only for 240 days . It has been observed in the case that what is 
required is that there should be continuity of service and continuity of service 
does not necessarily mean that the workman must have one completed year of 
service in every year . It would be suſicient that continuity of service should 
exist. The High Court disagreed with the view that workman would not be 
entitled to the payment of retrenchment compensation if he had not done servic 
for every completed year. By necessary implication , it would mean that once 
th , conditions of working for not less than 240 days during the period of twelve 
calendar months was established , the workman would be entitled to retrench 
ment compensation for all years that he had served irrespective of the number 
of days he might have worked in the different years , provided , of course, that 
the service was continuous. In my opinion , the workers who have been paid 
retrenchment compensation only for those years in which they had put in 240 
days attendance should also be paid compensation for the rost of the whole length 
of their service period provided they have put in 240 days attendance in any of 
the years of their service with the company. 

Th - last point of dispute is regarding a Tyndal Mazdoor named Shri Sodagar 
Singh . This worker appears to have met with an accident on 5th October 1958 . 
He resumed duties on 23rd October 1956 and worked upto 3rd March 1957 and 
thercafter becamç totally incapable of performing any work and was discharged 
Comp - nsation payable under the Worlman s Compensation Act was duly paid 
to him . The workmen urged that he was in a miserable condition and even on 
humanitarian grounds his case deserved favourable consideration . It is up to 
the employer to consider humanitarian grounds and the Tribunal can not force 
any employer to make ex - gratia payments or payments out of sympathy . 


The workmen then claimed that this worker should be paid retrenchment 
compensation . It appears that this worker was discharged because of incapability 
to perform work and he could not, therefore, claim retrenchment compensation . 
It further appears that his case was taken up by the Union and an agreement 
was reached in the course of conciliation proceedings, a copy of which has been 
produced by the employers at Annexure A . It shows that the Union had claimed 
that this workman should be provided with a light job and paid full wages for 
the period this was not done. The settlement was to the effect that his son 
should he provided with a job of Tyndal Mazdoor , on a permanent basis. In his 
deposition , Shri Jain has said that the son of this workman was accordingly 
appointed a Tyndal Mazdoor on permanent basis . It is further said that later 
on he had to be retrenched along with other workers and h was paid retrench 
ment compensation at that time. It was suggested to him that no retrenchment 
compensation was paid to him , but he denied this . 

The position , therefore , is that an industrial dispute regarding this workman 
was raised by the Union and there was an agreement reached at conciliation 
proceedings and this agreement was implemented by appointing his son to a 
particular job on a permanent basis . If that son was subs -quently (wrongfully 
or illegally ) discharged or if he was not paid retrenchment compensation , it 
would be a fresh industrial dispute and could not be covered by the dispute 
referred to as it m No . 5 in this case . In my opinion , therefore , no amount can 
be ordered to be paid to Shri Sodagar Singk . 
I pass my award as above. 

Presiding Officer . 
(No. 1 / 13 / 80 -LRII ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1883 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 13th November, 1961 
S . O . 2721. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Hind Strip Mining Corporation ( Private ) Limited , Contractors 
of D . V . C . Bermo Colliery and their workmen . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 2 OF 1981. 
PARTIES : 

Employers 
In relation to Hind Strip Mining Corporation ( P ) Ltd ., Contractors of 
D . V . C . Bermo Colliery ; 

AND 

Their workmen . 
PRESENT; 

Shri L . P . Dave, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers : Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate. 

For the Workmen : Shri B . N . Sharma, 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines , 
Dated , 31st October, 1961 

AWARD 
By the Government of India , Ministry of Labour & Employment, Order 
No. 2 / 181 /59 - LRII, dated 6th July 1960 as corrected by subsequent order of even 
number , dated 21st September 1960 , the dispute between the employers in rela 
tion to the Hind Strip Mining Corporation , Contractors of D . V . C . Bermo Colliery 
and their workmen in respect of following matters was referred for adjudication 
to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad : 
( 1 ) Whether the termination of the services of Sarvashree Jogindra Singh 

and A . R . Khan , shovel operators of Hind Strip Mining Corporation , 

Bermo, was justified ? 
(2 ) If not, what relief they are entitled to ? 
By subsequent Order No. 4 / 90 / 61 - LR . II. dated 9th June 1961, the proceedings 
in relation to the above dispute were transferred from the Dhanbad Tribunal 
to this Tribunal for disposal according to law , 

The statement of demand submitted by the Secretary of the Mazdoor Sangh 
was to the effect that Shri Jogindra Singh and Shri A , R . Khan , who were shovel 
operators of Messrs. Hind Strip Mining Corporation , reported sick on and from 
21st March 1959 and were under medical treatment in the first instance of the 
Medical Officer of the D . V . C ., Bermo Colliery dispensary who under the influence 
of the Management discharged them before they were fully cured and so they 
were forced to place themselves under the medical treatment of the Medical 
Officer of the Government dispensary at Jaridih . After they were fully cured , 
they submitted At certificates . The employer took no cognisance of the sick 
reports and suspended them and later on dismissed them on certain charges . 
The employer s action was malacious and illegal and therefore the Union demand 
ed that these workmen should be reinstated in service with full payment of 
back wages. 


The employers filed a written statement contending inter alia that some shovci 
operators went on strike from 21st March 1959 in respect of certain demands; 
that although Sri Jogindra Singh and A . R . Khan were not concerned with the 
above demand , they were present at the time when a discussion took place 
between the striking workers and the quarry Superintendent and that they 
reported sick from 21st March 1959; that in spite of reporting sick , they were 
seen moving about and hence the seriousness of their sickness was doubted ; 
that they were thereupon asked either to report to the Company s Doctor or to 


SIC . 8 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 / KARTIKA 27, 1889 2983 


report for duty ; that they , however, did not do either of the two things ; that 
on an enquiry being made from the Medical Officer it was learnt that they were 
fit ; that in spite of this they did not report for duty and as such charge sheets 
were issued to them on 27th March 1959 ; that they replied to this with a Medical 
certificate alleging that they were under the treatment of a qualified doctor and 
had not fully recovered to join their duty ; that they were entitled to free Medical 
treatment by a qualified Medical Officer of the Employer who was near at hand ; 
that they alleged to have preferred treatment by an outside doctor ; that as there 
was a conflict in the opinion of the two doctors, the Company constituted a Board 
of doctors and asked the workmen concerned to appear before the same Board 
on 30th March 1959 and the Assistant Civil Surgeon who was said to be treating 
these workmen was also requested to be present at the time. The workmen , 
however, did not appear before the Medical Board nor did the Assistant Civil 
Surgeon attend it ; that thereupon the Company s Medical Officer was requested 
to examine the workers at their residence and his report was that they were 
fit ; that for remaining absent without permission charge sheets were issued to 
them on 2nd April 1959 ; that they gave a reply to the charge sheets ; that they 
were then informed about the time and date of the departmental enquiry which 
was duly held in their presence after they were given full opportunity to defend 
themselves ; that as a result of the said enquiry, they were found guilty of mis 
conduct and were dismissed ; that the termination of their services was thus 
fully justifled. 

The workmen filed a rejoinder to the above statement denying the various 
allegations of the employers. They denied that they were present at the time 
of the discussion between the striking workmen and the management. They 
also denied that they were scen moving about. They alleged the medical officer 
of the D . V . C . expressed his inability to render further treatment to them as the 
management had pressed him not to do so ; that they were compelled to go to 
the Jaridih dispensary becausc further treatment was refused to them by the 
Company s doctor; that the Medical Officer of the Company did go to their 
residence, but he did not examine them ; that the departmental enquiry was not 
properly conducted and they were not giyen opportunity to cross examine the 
witnesses ; that the so -called enquiry was merely an eye wash ; that the workmen 
concerned were victimised because they were staunch supporters of the Union . 

At the hearing before me, the workers did not press the reference in so far 
as it related to Shri A . R . Khan . I was told that he has already obtained 
employment elsewhere and he does not want any relief in this case . The refer 
ence, therefore, survives only in so far as Sri Jogindra Singh is concerned and 
the main question that I have to consider is whether the termination of his ser 
vices was justified . 

It is not in dispute that Sri Jogindra Singh whom I shall hereafter refer as 
the workman concerned was working as a shovel operator of the Hind Strip 
Mining Corporation which is a Contractor of D . V . C . Bermo Colliery. It appears 
that the D . V . C . Bermo Colliery has a Medical dispensary and at the relevant 
time, Dr, Chakrabarty was in charge thereof. Workers who were working in 
the colliery whether as employees of the colliery itself or of the Contractor 
were entitled to free medical treatment at this dispensary . It further appears 
that in addition the contractor , namely , Hind Strip Mining Corporation had also 
its own Medical Officer . The workmen however usually went to the D . V . C . 
dispensary probably because it was nearer . 

It is also not in dispute that Şri Jongindra Singh the workman concerned 
fell ill on 21st March 1959 and went to Dr. Chakrabarty who after examining 
him recommended that he should not attend duty for two days. On 23rd March 
1959 the workman concerned again went to Dr. Chakrabarty who recommended 
further rest for two days. The workman concerned should , therefore , have 
joined his duties on 25th March 1959 ; that day was a holiday and hence the 
workman had to join his duties on 26th March 1959. He, however , did not do 
so . 


The workmen s case as disclosed at the hearing is to the effect that on 26th 
March 1959, the workman concerned went to the D . V . C . dispensary , but Dr. 
Chakrabarty was then not present, being on leave. The Assistant Medical Officer 
told him ( Sri Jogindra Singh ) that he had instructions from the employer not 
to give him a certificate for further relief and he also refused to treat him . 
On this , the workman went to the Government dispensary at Jaridih where he 
was examined by the Assistant Civil Surgeon who recommended that he should 
take rest for a week . The workmen s further allegation is that at the end of 


2984. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 [PART II 


the week he was At for duty and he, therefore , went to the colllery and reported 
for duty when an order of suspension and a charge shcet were served on him . 
In support of these allegations, the workmen have examined Jogindra Singh 
himself . On the other hand , the employer have examined Dr. Chakrabarty and 
have also produced several documents . 

According to the employers , the workman concerned was really not ill and 
was scen moving about. They , therefore , wrote to the Medical Officer on 24th 
March 1959 to let them know as to the details of the disease the workman was 
suffering from and the time by which he thought that the workman would be 
fit to resume duties. In reply to this , Dr. Chakrabarty wrote a letter on 26th 
March 1959 mentioning that Jogindra Singh was suffering from dysentry from 
21st March 1959 and was at Arst given rest for two days ; at the end of which 
hc was given further rest for two days as required and that he was to resume 
his duties from 25th March 1959. But, as it was a holiday , he would have to 
resume his duties on the 26th instant ( see annexures B and B - 1 filed with the 
written statement of the employers ) . 

It appears that before this (namely on 23rd March 1959 ) , the Management 
bad published a notice ( Annexure A ) referring to the absence of several work 
men . So far as Jogindra Singh is concerned , the notice mentioned that he was 
one of the operators who had reported sick in a group and that all these work 
men were seen moying about. The notice , therefore, directed them to report 
to the Company s Doctor immediately or otherwise they should report for duty . 


It may be noted at this stage that in his deposition , the workman Jogindra 
Singh has admitted that he had been asked by the company to go for treatment 
to the Company s doctor, but he did not do so because he did not know whether 
the Company s doctor was good doctor or not and also because he did not know 
whether he would give him proper treatment or not . This appears to me to be 
rather strange. The workman had gone to the D . V . c . dispensary on 21st March 
1959 and was examined by Dr, Chakrabarty who had given him a certificate for 
absence for two days. He again went to Dr. Chakrabarty on 23rd March 1959 
when a fu : ther certificate for another two days was given . As 25th was a holi 
day , he was due to join duties on 26th . Before this, the Company had given him 
a notice to appear before the Company s Doctor. In spite of this , he went to 
a Doctor at Jaridih on 26th . It may be noted that he was entitled to free treat 
ment both at the D . V . C . dispensary which was in charge of Dr. Chakrabarty 
and also he was entitled to free treatment by the Company s doctor He says 
that he went to the D . V . C dispensary on 26th when Dr. Chakrabarty was not 
present and his Assistant declined to treat him . It may be noted that these 
allegations about there being an Assistant Medical Officer and about the Assistant 
Medical Ofcer s having declined to treat him , etc ., are made by him for the 
first time in his deposition . All along his case has been that the Medical Officer 
himself had refused to treat him because pressure was brought upon him by 
the Management. The Medical Officer, Dr. Chakrabarty , was called as a witness 
by the Management and probably because of this the workman appears to have 
given a go by to his original allegation and made out a new case that Dr . Chakra 
barty was not present on 26th March 1959 and that his Assistant refused to trcat 
him . Dr, Chakrabarty has been examined and he has denied that he was absent 
on 26th March 1959. He has also stated that Jogindra Singh never came to the 
dispensary on that day . The letter (annexure B - 1 ) is a letter written by Dr. 
Chakrabarty on 26th March 1959 to the Employers and this shows that he was 
present at the dispensary on that day . 


It may then be noted that if the Assistant Medical Officer had refused to treat 
the workman concerned on 26th March 1959, he should have made a complaint 
either to Dr. Chakrabarty or to the Management or he should have gone to the 
Medical Officer of the Company to whom he had already been asked to go by 
the Management. It was really improper for him to ignore the Medical Officer 
of the Company and to go all the way to Jaridih which is at quite a good dis 
tance from his residence. According to him , he went there in a taxi. In other 
words, he had to spend not only for the medical fees but also for transport for 
going to consult the Doctor at Jaridih and his action in doing so , when he had 
at least two Medical Officers nearby who could have trcated him free , is a circum 
stance , from which one is entitled to infer that his alleged illness was not a 
tact. 


The matter, however , does not rest here. The workman is said to have gone 
to the Jaridih Doctor and obtained treatment from him from 26th . When a 


208 


SEC . 8 (0 ) } THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1889 


letter ( Annexure C ) was written to him on 27th March 1959 , stating that accord 
ing to the advice of the Medical Ofcer of the D . V . C . Colliery he should have 
already joined his duties and that he had not done so and was seen moving 
about with other persons who were on illegal strike, he sent a reply (Annexure 
B - 1 ) on 28th March 1959 . In this reply he stated that he had fallen ill from 
21st March 1959 ; that the Medical Officer of the D . V . C , dispensary had made 
him fit for duty on 26th March 1959 , but actually he was not fit and that he 
felt that the doctor had declared him fit on the Company s pressure and that 
having no other solution for treatment of his disease, he had to consult another 
doctor who had advised him further rest and treatment. Along with this letter 
he produced a certificate of the Civil Assistant Surgeon to the effect that Jogindra 
Singh was under his treatment and he had been advised rest for a week . I may 
mention here that no reference has been made in this reply of the workman 
as to why he did not go to the Company s doctor as he was asked to do under 
notice - Annexure A . 

On receipt of the above letter the employer wrote to him ( vide Annexure 
E ) that he had not carried out the instructions to report to the Company s doctor; 
that he had been declared At by the Medical Officer of the D . V .C . dispensary 
and that if he wished to have further treatment, he should have reported to the 
Company s doctor. The letter further mentioned that he should appear at the 
office of the Company at 9 - 30 AM , on 30th March 1959 for examination by a 
Board of doctors . It also appears that at the same time the Management wrote 
a letter ( Annexure E - 1 ) to the Civil Assistant Surgeon who was said to have 
examined the workman concerned and issued him a certificate advising rest for 
a week . The letter to the Civil Assistant Surgeon mentioned that he had issued 
a certificate to Jogindra Singh and two other persons named in the letter and 
all these three individuals were under the treatment of the Medical Oficer , 
D . V . C . Mines who had declared them fit and that they alleged to have been 
under the Civil Assistant Surgeon s treatment subsequent to this . The letter 
further mentioned that the workmen had been called to the Company s office 
at 9 - 30 A . M , to be examined by a Board of doctors and the Company would 
appreciate it if the Civil Assistant Surgeon also came to the office at the same 
time to examine these persons jointly with other doctors and that his fees for the 
visit would be paid to him . 

On 30th March 1959 Jogindra Singh did not appear at the office for examina 
tion by a Medical Board nor was the Civil Assistant Surgeon present though he 
had been requested to come there and though his fees for the visit were pro 
mised to be paid to him . The workman concerned , however , wrote a letter 
to the Company mentioning that he had been advised rest by the Doctor of 
Jaridih dispensary and that without his adyice , it would be not be proper for 
him to move round or to attend the office as desired by them . The letter further 
mentioned that he was sending a man to the Jaridih Medical Omcer to come to 
his house and to examine him to see whether he was fit to attend the office 
of the Company for further examination and that as soon as he received advice 
he would act accordingly , and an intimation would be sent to the Company , 
Admittedly no further intimation was sent by the workman to the Company . 

In his deposition , the workman has made out a somewhat different case . He 
said at Arst that he could not go to the office for examination by a Medical 
Board as required by the Company because he could not arrange for transport. 
He admitted that he had not mentioned this fact in his reply to the Company . 
Hc then said that he did call the Jaridih doctor and he came to his residence 
and examined him and advised him not to appear before the Medical Board 
saying that he should not walk . If this was so , it was open to the workman 
to have written to the Company stating his inability to attend because of want 
of transport . He never made this allegation and I do not believe that he did 
not or could not attend the office for want of transport. In my opinion , he 
deliberately avoided going to the office for examination by the Medical Board 
as he must have felt that he would be exposed . 


At this stage, I may also mention that after this the Company sent its Medical 
Officer to the residence of the workman concerned to examine him and he 
reported that the workman was fit. The workman says that the Medical Officer 
did not examine him but went away after talking with him . I do not think 
that a Medical Officer who had been sent specifically to the residence of a person 
to examine him would go away without examining him nor do I think that the 
workman would allow him to go away like this . Apart from this , there is one 
important statement made by the workman in this connection and it is that he 
told the Medical Officer that he was prepared to join immediately if he was given 


2986 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 18, 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 (Part II 


light duty . This happened in the evening of 30th March 1959 and this reply 
of the workman shows that he was at least fit to walk and could have easily 
attended the Company s office that morning to appear before the Medical Board . 


I can quite understand a workman s unwillingness or reluctance to resume 
duty if he was not well and if his family Doctor advised him not to work and 
in such case he may be right in preferring the advice of a family Doctor as 
against his employer s medical officer , Here, however , it was a case where he 
went to a Doctor who was staying at a distance and whom he did not know 
and who is stated to have advised him rest. That Doctor was not a family 
Doctor . Further , if the workman was not satisfied with the opinion or the 
Medical Officer of the D . V .C . dispensary, he should have first gone to the Com 
pany s Doctor , Actually , he had been asked to do so by the Company. In this 
connection , I might repeat that the workman s present case is that the Assistant 
Medical Omcer had declined to treat him and if so , he should have first com 
plained to Dr. Chakrabarty or got himself examined by Dr. Chakrabarty . If 
he was dissatisfied with it he should have gone to the Company s Doctor and if 
even after that, he was not satisfied , he should have gone to the Jaridih dispen 
sary . Apart from this, the want of bona fides of the workman is clearly seen 
from the fact that he deliberately avoided appearance before a Medical Board . 
He would not have done so if he was really ill. In my opinion , therefore, the 
Company was right in holding that the workman was really not unwell and 
that he had deliberately feigned illness . At any rate , it could not be said that 
the Management s action was not bona fide or that it was prompted by improper 
motives nor can it be said that they wanted to victimise him , 


In their rejoinder , the workmen have made allegations that the Management 
tried to victimise Jogindra Singh as he was a staunch supporter of the Union . 
But there is not an iota of evidence to show this . Jogindra Singh has not said 
in his deposition that he was victimised because of his Trade Union activities , 
In the rejoinder , the workmen have also said that the departmental enquiry 
was not properly conducted and that the workmen concerned were not given 
an opportunity to cross examine witnesses and that the statements made by the 
witnesses were not explained to the workmen in Hindi and that the so - called 
enquiry was merely an eye wash . Actually , there is no evidence in support of 
these allegations. Jogindra Singh himself has not said a word in his deposition 
about his not having had an opportunity to cross examine the witnesses or about 
the depositions being not explained to him , etc . It may lastly be noted that the 
Assistant Civil Surgeon who is said to have treated Jogindra Singh on 26th 
March 1959 and advised him rest for a week has not been examined either before 
me or before the Management. Actually , no attempt has been made by the 
workmen even to summon him , 


To sum up , the Management duly served a charge sheet on the workman 
concerned to which he replied . Thereafter , the Management held an enquiry 
and opportunity was given to the workman to defend himself. On the evidence 
before it , the Management were entitled to come to the conclusion that the 
workman was guilty of misconduct . Further , on a review of the evidence and 
the circumstances of the case on merits also , I think that the decision of the 
Management was correct. That being so , the termination of services of Sri 
Jogindra Singh was justified . He would not, therefore, be entitled to any relief . 


I pass an award accordingly . 


Presiding Officer , 


[No. 2 / 181/ 59 - LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 14th November 1961 


S . O . 2722 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Sasti Colliery and their workman . 


SEC , 3 (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1885 2087 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. CGIT -25 OF 1961 
Employers in relation to the Sasti Colliery . 

AND 
their workman . 

PRESENT ; 
Shri Salim M . Merchant, Presiding Officer. 

Bombay , the 1st November, 1961 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers . - Shri S . V , Kanade, Personnel Officer with Shri M . K . 

Jha, Manager, Sasti Colliery . 
For the workman . - No appearance, at the hearing . 
STATE : Maharashtra. 

INDUSTRY : Coal mining. 


AWARD 


The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
Order No . 2 / 60 / 61 /LRII, dated 22nd July , 1961, made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947, ( 14 of 1947) , was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between 
the parties above named , in respect of the subject matters specified in the follow 
ing schedule to the said order , to me for adjudication : 

SCHEDULE 


" Having regard to the nature of the duties performed by Shri Ganpat J . 

Rangari, Oil Issuer of Sasti Colliery , whether the management is 
justified in placing him in category II as per Appendix XII of the 
Award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Colliery Disputes ) ; if 
not, whether he should be placed in clerical grade III as per Appen 
dix XVI of the said Award and if so , from what date after the 23rd 

January , 1961 ? " . 
2. After the usual notices were issued the General Secretary, Sasti Colliery 
Workers Union , P . O . Ballarpur, Aled a written statement of claim dated 5th 
August, 1961, in which he has stated that formerly Shri Ganpat J. Rangarı, the 
workman In respect of whose categorisation this dispute has been raised , was 
designated as store issuer and is now designated as oil issue mazdoor and is being 
paid the wages of category II instead of the wages in the clerical grade III, pres 
cribed by the Mazumdar Award as modified by the decision of the Labour Appel 
late Tribunal. The union has stated that besides working as an oil issue clerk 
Shri Rangari had to maintain various records in the discharge of his duties ag 
store issuer which work is also taken from him , in addition to the work of oil 
Issuing clerk . The union has given particulars of the various forms which 
according to it Shri Rangari was required to maintain . The union , therefore, 
prayed that Rangari should be classified as a clerk grade III and should be paid 
his back wages on that basis from the date of the Mazumdar Award , 


3 . The company in its written statement has denied these allegations and has 
stated that Rangari had been properly designated as oil issue mazdoor and had 
been properly placed in category II. The management has stated that the work 
of maintaining the attendance register of the miners to whom oil is issued occu 
pies Rangari only for about 40 minutes in the beginning of the shift when he 
delivers oil to the workers and for the rest of the time he does the manual work 
of issuing stores. The management has further stated that after the Conciliation 
Officer made his failure report dated 28th February , 1961, and before this refer 
ence was made, the company had on and from 7th July , 1961, transferred Rangari 
as a shot Issuer and he was being paid wages in category V , prescribed for shot 
issuers by the Mazumdar Award , as modified by the decision of the Labour Appel 
Jate Tribunal of India and the award dated 30th December , 1959, of the Arbitra 
tor Colliery Disputes, Shri A . Das Gupta . 


2088 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/KARTIKA 27, 1889 [Part II 


4. At the hearing of this dispute on 31st October , 1961, the union did not 
appear, but sent the following telegram confirmation of which has been received 
later by post : - 
" Ganpat Rangari, oil Issue clerk working as shots issuer pray confirm the 

category from the date of performance as shot issuer. Krishnaran 

Secy ., Sasti Colliery Workers Union " , 
When this telegram was shown to the representatives of the management at 
the hearing of this dispute on 31st October, 1961, they stated that they had no 
objection to confirming Rangari in the category of a shot issuer from 7th July , 
1961, because , in fact, he was working in that capacity from that date and was 
being paid the wages of category V as against category II wages which he was 
being paid before when he was working as oil issuer. Thus the parties have 
agreed that Rangari should be confirmed in the post of shot issuer with effect 
from 7th July , 1961, and be paid category V wages and they have prayed for a 
direction from me to that effect in settlement of this dispute, and I direct accord 
ingly . 
No order as to costs . 

Sd ./ - SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay . 
[No. 2 / 60 /61- LRII.) 


S . O . 2723 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 39 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
power conferred on it under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 34 of the said Act, shall, 
in respect of offences punishable under section 26 , Section 28 , section 29 , section 
30 and section 31 of that Act, be exercisable also by the Chief Labour Commis 
sioner ( Central) , New Delhi. 

[No. 1 / 96 / 60 - LRI.} 
A . L , HANDA , Under Secy, 


New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 224 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 1 
of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the 12th November , 1961, as the date on which the provisions of 
Chapter IV (except sections 44 and 45 which have already bren brought into 
force ) , Chapter V and Chapter VI (except sub - section ( 1 ) of section 76 and sections 
77 , 78 , 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force ) of the said Act 
shall come into force in the area of Taluka Bagscin in Thana District in the State 
of Maharashtra . 

[No. F . 13 ( 12 ) / 61- HI. ] 
New Delhi, the 9th November 1961 
S . O . 2725 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) . the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the notifcation of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 1930 , dated the 15th September , 
1958 , namely : 
In the preamble to said notification for the words " Workshop of the Indian 

Bureau of Mines , Calcutta " , the words “ Workshop of the Indian 
Bureau of Mines, Nagpur " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . HI- 6 (47 ) / 58 . ] 


New Delhi, the 14th November 1961 
S . O . 2726 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 1 
of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 , ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the 19th November , 1961, as the date on which the provi 
sions of Chapter IV ( except sections 44 and 45 which have already been brought 


SEC. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961 /KARTIKA 27, I 


into force ) , Chapter V , and Chapter VI ( except sub -section ( 1 ) of section 76 and 
sections 77, 78 , 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force ) of the said 
Act, shall come into force in the following areas of Vizianagaram in the State of 
Andhra Pradesh , namely : 
Areas comprised in the Vizianagaram Municipality lying within the limits 

of the following revenue villages : 
1. North — Venugopalapuram (No. 168 ) 1st bit, Gajularega No. 95, Viziana 

garam and bit No . 170. 
2 . East _ Vizianagaram 2nd bit- 170 , Jammunarayanampuram No. 89 . 
3 . South - Vizianagaram 1st bit No. 91 , Dharamapuri No. 88 , Jammunaraya 

nampuram No. 89. 
4 . West - -Kanapaka - No. 93 , Dupnada No. 92 . 

[No. F . 13 ( 13 ) / 61- HI.) 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 9th November 1961 
S . O . 2727 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Indian Bank Limited and their workmen , 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

BOMBAY 
REFERENCE No . CGIT - 19 OF 1961 
Employers in relation to the Indian Bank Ltd ., 


AND 


their workmen 

PRESENT: 

Shri Salim M . Merchant, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES: 

For the employers : Shri H , Ramanathan , Law Officer of the Bank . 
For the workmen : Shri V . Krishnan , President, Indian Bank Employees 

Union , Bombay with Shri R . Koteswara Rao , the workman concerned . 
STATE ; Andhra Pradesh . 

INDUSTRY : Banking. 
Bombay , dated the 31st October 1961 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by Order 
No. 51 ( 1 ) / 81- LRIV , dated 23rd May 1961, made in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947 ( Act 14 of 1947 ) , was pleased to refer the industrial dispute between 
the parties abovenamed in respect of the subject matters specified in the follow 
ing schedule to the said order , to me for adjudication : - 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether by virtue of the duties performed from the 22nd February 1956, 

Shri R . Koteswar Rao of the Kurnool Branch of the Bank can be 

designated as Gollah and , if so , to what relief is he entitled ? " 
2 . At the hearing of this dispute on 30th October 1961, after the parties had 
made their submissions, I suggested that for the period from 22nd February 1956 
to 31st October 1958 , computed at 33 months, Shri R . Koteswar Rao should be 
treated as having discharged most of the duties of a Gollah and be paid an 
allowance at the rate of Rs. 20 per month . The amount of Rs. 660 thus arrived 
at should be paid to Shri R . Koteswar Rao by 6th November 1961. I also sug 
gested that the Bank should pay to Shri Ri Koteswar Rao by the same date 
another sum of Rs. 75 as costs to defray the expenses incurred by him for attend 
ing the hearing of this dispute in Bombay . 


2000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 18 , 1981/ KARTIKA 27, 188% ( PART II 


3 . I am glad to say that the representatives of both parties have accepted my 
suggestions and I, therefore, made an award accordingly . 

4 . I further suggested that Shri R . Koteswar Rao be treated as on duty for 
the period from 26th October 1961 to 1st November 1961 inclusive, and Shri V . 
Krishnan , the President of the Union , on 30th October 1961. Both these sug 
gestions have also been accepted by the management, and I direct accordingly , 

5 . Before parting with this reference, I should like to suggest to the manage 
ment that it should take into consideration the fact that Shri R . Koteswar Rao 
had discharged most of the duties of a "Gollah for a period of 33 months, in 
promoting him into the next vacancy in a higher post occurring in any one of 
its branches in Andhra Pradesh . 


( Sd.) SALIM M . MERCHANT, 

Presiding Omcer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay . 
[ No. 51 ( 1 ) / 61 -LRIV . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th November 1961 
S . O . 2728 , — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to M / s . Great Eastern Shipping 
Co . Ltd ., Bombay, and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed . 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the In 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
How far the demands raised by the workmen of M / s . Great Eastern Shipping 
Co . Ltd ., Bombay, employed in the Bombay Port and Docks in respect of the 
following matters are justified : 

( a ) gratuity ; 
(b ) leave travel concessions; and 
( c ) leave facilities. 

[No. 28 /62 / 61 - LRIV .] 
G . JAGANNATHAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 10th November 1961 
S . O . 2729 , — The following draft of a scheme further to amend the Calcutta 
upregistered Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1957, which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
Bub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , is published as required by the said sub - section for the 
Information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 25th November, 
1961, 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 

DRAFT SCHEME 
1. This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regula 
tion of Employment) Second Amendment Scheme, 1981. 


Sec. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961 /KARTIKA 27, 1888 2991 


2 . In clause 3 of the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of 
Employment) Scheme, 1957, hereinafter referred to as the said Scheme after item 
( a ) , the following item shall be inserted namely : - - 
" (aa ) Administrative Body means the Administrative Body appointed 

under clause 5 of the Calcutta Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ 

ment) Scheme, 1956 ." 
3. After clause 8 of the said Scheme, the following clause shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" 6 - A . Functions of the Administrative Body . — The Administrative Body 

shall be responsible for the administration of this Scheme, under the 
control and supervision of the Chairman , and shall in particular be 

responsible for 
( a ) the allocation of the listed workers in the pools constituted under 

clause 9 - B who are available for work , to the Usted employers and 

for this purpose the Administrative Body shall - - 
(i) be deemed to act as an agent for the llsted employer ; 
(11 ) make the fullest possible use of the Ilsted workers in each pool; 

and 
( ili) provide for the maintenance of records of employment and 

earnings 
( b ) the payment, as agent of the listed employer , to each listed dock 

worker of all earnings due to the worker from the employer ; and 
( c ) authorising the employment of unlisted workers if listed workers are 

not available for work in the pool( s ) or in such circumstances as 
the Chairman may approve . 


4 . In sub -clause ( 1) of clausę 9 - A of the said Şcheme, for the second sentence , 
the following sentence shall be substituted , namely : 
" The names of monthly workers, if any, shall be arranged separately in 

the list " , 
5 . In clause 9 - B 
(1 ) in sub -clause ( 1 ) , after the words " sub - list of workers" , the words and 

brackets " ( excluding monthly workers ) " shall be ingerted . 
(11 ) in sub- clause (2 ), for the provisos the - following provisos shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" Provided that baggers shall be employed in gangs , each gang consisting 

of four workers and in their case the allotment of work by rotation 

shall be by gangs: 
Provided further that each listed employer shall be entitled to employ his 

monthly workers in preference to listed workers in the pool." 
8. Clauses 9- C , 9 -D and 9-E shall be omitted . 

7 . For clauses 11, 12 and 13 the following clauses shall respectively be sub 
stituted, namely : 
" 11, Obligations of listed employer. - ( 1 ) Every listed employer shall be 

bound by the provisions of this Scheme. 
( 2 ) Every listed employer shall pay to the Board such administrative 

charges as may be fixed by the Board from time to time. 
( 3 ) Subject to the provisions of clause 9 - B , a listed employer shall not 

employ a worker other than a dock worker who has been allocated 
to him by the Administrative Body in accordance with the provisions 

of clause 6 - A . 
( 4 ) A listed employer shall in accordance with arrangements made by the 

Administrative Body submit all available information of his current 

and future labour requirements . 
( 5 ) A listed employer shall lodge with the Administrative Body , unless 

otherwise directed, a certiAcate of the output of the gang of baggers 
at the end of the shift in which the gang worked and such other 
Information as may be required in respect of the listed workerg 
employed by him , 


2992 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18, 1961/ KARTIKA 27 , 1883 [PART II 


( 6 ) A listed employer shall pay to the Administrative Body in such manner 

and at such times as the Chairman may direct the administrative 
charges payable under sub - clause ( 2 ) and the gross wages due to the 

dock workers. 
( 7 ) A listed employer shall keep such records as the Board may require , 

and shall produce to the Board or to such persons as may be designa 
ted by the Chairman upon reasonable notice all such records and 
any other documents of any kind relating to listed dock workers and 
to the work upon which they have have been employed and furnish 
such information relating thereto as may be set out in any notice 

or direction issued by or on behalf of the Board . 
12 . Obligations of listed workers. - ( 1 ) Each listed worker shall be deemed 

to have accepted the obligations of this Scheme. 
( 2 ) A listed dock worker in the pool who is available for work shall be 

deemed to be in the employment of the Board . 
( 3 ) A listed dock worker in the pool who is avallable for work shall not 

engage himself for employment under a listed employer unless he is 

allocated to that employer by the Administrative Body . 
· (4 ) A listed dock worker in the pool who is avallable for work shall carry 

out the directions of the Administrative Body and shall 
( a ) report at such call stands or control points on such days and at 

such times as may be specified by the Administrative Body ; 
( b ) accept any employment in connection with dock work whether in 

the category or sub - category in which he has been listed or in 
any other category or sub -category for which he is considered 

suitable by the Administrative Body. 
( 5 ) A listed dock worker who is available for work when allocated by the 

Administrative Body for employment under a listed employer shall 
carry out his duties in accordance with the directions of such listed 
employer or his authorised representative or supervisor and the rules 

of the port or place where he is working . 
13 . Restriction on employment. Subject to the provisions of clauses 1 and 

6 - A , no person other than a listed employer shall employ any worker 
on dock work nor shall a listed employer engage for employment or 

employ a worker on dock work unless that worker is a listed worker. " 
8 . For sub - clauses (3 ) and ( 4 ) of clause 14 , the following sub -clauses shall 
be substituted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) A listed dock worker in the pool who fails to comply with any of 

the provisions of the Scheme, or commits any act of Indiscipline or 
misconduct, may be reported in writing to the Personnel Officer , who 
may after investigating the matter give him a warning in writing 

or suspend him for a period not exceeding seven days . 
(4 ) Where in the opinion of the Personnel Officer a higher punishment 

than that provided in sub - clause ( 3 ) is merited , he shall report the 

case to the Deputy Chairman . 
( 5 ) On receipt of the written report from the Personnel Officer under sub 

clause ( 4 ) or from the Administrative Body that a lişted dock worker 
in the pool has failed to comply with any of the provisions of the 
Scheme or has committed an act of indiscipline or misconduct or 
has consistently failed to produce the standard output or has been 
ineſcient in any other manner, the Deputy Chairman may make or 
cause to be made such further investigation as he may deem At , 
and thereafter take any of the following steps, as regards the worker 
concerned , that is to say, he may impose any of the following 

penalties : 
(a ) give him a warning in writing; 
(b ) suspend him for a period not exceeding 3 months; 
( c ) terminato his services after giving 14 days notice ; or 

( d ) dismiss him . 
( 6 ) Before any action is taken under this clause the person concerned shall 

be given an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action 


Sec . 8(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 18 , 1961/ KARTIKA 27, 1883 2993 


should not be taken against him . A copy of the final order shall 

also be communicated to the person concerned . 
(7 ) The Administrative Body shall be informed simultaneously about the 

action taken under this clause . 
For clause 16 , the following clause shall be substituted , namely : -- 
" 16 . Appeals by workers. - ( 1 ) A listed worker in the pool, who is aggrieved 

by an order passed by the Personnel Omcer or the Deputy Chairman 
under clause 14 may appeal to the next higher authority namely , the 

Deputy Chairman or the Chalrman , as the case may be . 
( 2 ) A dock worker, who has been refused listing under clause 9 may appeal 

to the Board 
( 3 ) Every appeal under sub - clause ( 1 ) or sub - clause ( 2 ) shall be in 

writing and preferred within 14 days of the receipt of the order 

appealed against and the order passed on such appeal shall be final : 
Provided that the appellate authority may for rcasons to be recorded , 
admit an appeal preferred after the expiry of 14 days." 

No . F . 529 / 11 / 61-Fac. 1 
B . K . BHATTACHARYA , Dy. Secy. 


Ino 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
S . O . 2730 . - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. LWI( I ) 6 ( 10 ) / 60 , dated the 4th October , 1961, 
published at page 2695 of Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii) of the Gazette of 
India, dated the 14th October 1981 for " Shri B . K . Bacheka" read " Shri D . K . 
Badheka" . 

( No . LWI( I ) 6 ( 10 ) /60. ) 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1961 
$ . O . 2731 . - In the Ministry of Labour and Employment Notification S .O . 1789 , 
dated the 20th July , 1961, published at pages 17041706 of the Gazette of India , 
Part II , Section 3 , sub - section ( li) , dated the 29th July , 1961 in item 13 of Sche 
dule II, after " 41 per cent" insert " or 1 per cent" . 

[No. 9 / 5 /61- PF.II. ] 
PD GAIHA, Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF L UBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1961 


