रजिस्ट्री सं” डी? एल---(एन)04/0007/2003---23 REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—23 


प्यारत a Ista 
The Gazette of Gudia 


Or. Gh. -S).Wet.-37.-2072023-247494 
CG-DL-E-2072023-247494 


असाधारण 
EXTRAORDINARY 
भाग वा --- खण्ड 2 
PART II — Section 2 
प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


संग 9] नई दिल्‍ली, बृहस्पतिवार, जुलाई 20, 2023/ आषाढ़ 29, 945 (शक) 
No. 9] NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, JULY 20, 2023/ASADHA 29, 945 (SAKA) 


इस भाग में भिन्‍न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके। 
Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation. 


RAJYA SABHA 


The following Bill has been introduced in the Rajya Sabha on the 20th July, 2023:— 
Butt No. XLVI or 2023 


A Bill further to amend the Cinematograph Act, 952. 


BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-fourth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows:— 


I. (7) This Act may be called the Cinematograph (Amendment) Act, 2023. 


(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, appoint. 


37 of 952. 2. Throughout the Cinematograph Act, |952 (hereinafter referred to as the principal 
Act), for the letters and word ‘ “UA” certificate’, wherever they occur, the letters and words 
6 “UA” Certificate with any UA marker’ shall be substituted. 


3. In section | of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), the proviso shall be omitted. 


Short title and 
commencement. 


Construction 
of reference 
of certain 
expressions by 
certain other 
expressions. 


Amendment 
of section |. 


Amendment 
of section 2. 


Substitution 
of new section 
for section 4. 


Examination 
of films. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II— 


4. In section 2 of the principal Act,— 


(i) after clause (dd), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 


‘(ddd) “infringing copy” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in 
sub-clause (ii) of clause (m) of section 2 of the Copyright Act, l957;’; 


(ii) after clause (h), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 


४0) “UA marker” means an age-based indicator for a film which has 
received or is intended to receive a “067 certificate under section 4 and such 
indicator may be “UA 7+” or “UA 3+” or “UA l6+”: 


Provided that where the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary 
or expedient so to do in public interest, it may, by an order published in the 
Official Gazette and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, declare such other 
indicators.’. 


5. For section 4 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, 


‘4. (/) Any person desiring to exhibit any film shall make an application to the 


Board for a certificate in such form and manner as may be prescribed. 


(2) The Board may, after examining the film in such manner as may be 


prescribed,— 


(i) sanction the film for unrestricted public exhibition: 


Provided that, having regard to any material in the film, if the Board is of 
the opinion that viewing of such film by any child between seven to eighteen 
years of age is subject to guidance of parents or lawful guardian, then the 
Board may sanction the film for unrestricted public exhibition with an 
endorsement to that effect containing UA marker. 


Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that— 


(a) the expression “seven” denotes completion of seven years of 
age and the expression “eighteen” denotes before attaining the age of 
eighteen years; 


(b) an endorsement by the Board shall enable the parents and lawful 
guardian of the child to consider whether such child should view such a 
film, and shall not be enforced by any person other than the parents or 
lawful guardian of the child; 


(ii) sanction the film for public exhibition restricted to adults; 


(iii) sanction the film for public exhibition restricted to members of any 
profession or any class of persons having regard to the nature, content and 
theme of the film; 


(iv) direct the applicant to carry out such excisions or modifications in the 
film as it may deem necessary before sanctioning the film for public exhibition 
under clauses (7), (7) and (iii); or 


(v) refuse to sanction the film for public exhibition: 


Provided that no action under this section shall be taken by the Board, unless 


the applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard in the matter. 


4 of 957. 


4 of 957. 


4 of 957. 


4 of 957. 


2l of 2000. 


Sec. 2] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3 


(3) Any person desiring to exhibit on television or such other media as may be 
prescribed, any film which has been sanctioned by the Board under clause (ii) or 
clause (iii) of sub-section (2), may make an application to the Board in such form and 
manner as may be prescribed, and the Board may, for this purpose, sanction the film 
with a separate certificate, after directing the applicant to carry out such excisions or 
modifications in the film as it may think fit.’. 


6. In section 5A of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), the words “for a period of ten 


years” shall be omitted. 


7. In section 6 of the principal Act,— 
(a) sub-section (/) shall be omitted; 


(b) in sub-section (2), in the opening portion, for the words, brackets and figure 
“Without prejudice to the powers conferred on it under sub-section (/)”, the words 
“Subject to the provisions of this Act” shall be substituted. 


8. After section 6A of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted, 


namely:— 


‘6AA. No person shall use any audio-visual recording device in a place licensed 
to exhibit films with the intention of making or transmitting or attempting to make or 
transmit or abetting the making or transmission of an infringing copy of such film or 
a part thereof. 


Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression “audio-visual 
recording device” means a digital or analogue photographic or video camera, or any 
other technology or device capable of enabling the recording or transmission of a 
copyrighted cinematographic film or any part thereof, regardless of whether 
audio-visual recording is the sole or primary purpose of the device. 


6AB. No person shall use or abet the use of an infringing copy of any film to 
exhibit to the public for profit— 
(a) at a place of exhibition which has not been licensed under this Act or 


the rules made thereunder; or 


(b) in a manner that amounts to the infringement of copyright under the 
provisions of the Copyright Act, !957 or any other law for the time being in 
force.’. 


9. In section 7 of the principal Act, after sub-section (/), the following sub-sections 


shall be inserted, namely:— 


“(IA) Save as otherwise provided in section 52 of the Copyright Act, 957, if 
any person contravenes the provisions of section 6AA or section 6AB, he shall be 
punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three months, 
but may extend to three years and with a fine which shall not be less than three lakh rupees 
but may extend to five per cent. of the audited gross production cost. 


(CB) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section— 


(i) a person aggrieved by a contravention under section 6AA or 
section 6AB shall not be prevented from taking suitable action for an infringement 
under section 5l of the Copyright Act, 957 or from taking suitable action for 
computer related offences under section 66 of the Information Technology 
Act, 2000 or any other relevant laws for the time being in force; 


(ii) the appropriate Government or its agencies shall not be prevented 
from taking suitable action against an intermediary as defined under clause (w) 


Amendment 
of section 5A. 


Amendment of 
section 6. 


Insertion of 
new sections 
6AA and 6AB. 


Prohibition of 
unauthorised 
recording. 


Prohibition of 
unauthorised 
exhibition of 
films. 


Amendment 
of section 7. 


4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Parr II— 


of sub-section (/) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, where 
such intermediary acts in the manner as set out under sub-section (3) of 
section 79 of the said Act or any other law for the time being in force. 


Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression 
“appropriate Government” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in 
clause (e) of sub-section (/) of section 2 of the Information Technology 
Act, 2000.’. 


Amendment 0. In section 8 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for clause (c), the following 
of section 8. Clauses shall be substituted, namely:— 


“(c) the form and manner of making an application to the Board for a certificate 
under sub-section (/) of section 4; 


(ca) the manner of examination of film under sub-section (2) of 
section 4; 


(cb) the media for exhibition of film and the form and manner of making an 
application to the Board in this regard under sub-section (3) of section 4;”. 


2l of 2000. 


2] of 2000. 


Sec. 2] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 5 


STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
The Cinematograph Act, [952 (the Act) was enacted with a view to make provisions for 


the certification of cinematograph films for exhibition and for regulating exhibitions by means 
of cinematographs. 


2. The medium of cinema, the tools, the technology associated with it and its audience 
have undergone vital changes over a period of time. The certification process for public 
exhibition needs to be contemporised in order to make the process in tune with the changed 
time. Further, the film industry has been impacted by the advent of new digital technology, 
decline in number of the people visiting cinema theatres, increase in piracy of the films 
through internet or social media, copyright violations and the like which in turn also causes 
loss to the Government exchequer. 


3. The Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2023 aims to comprehensively address the 
issues relating to film certification. The Bill attempts to— 


(i) address the issue of unauthorised recording and exhibition of films and curb 
the menace of film piracy by transmission of unauthorised copies on the internet; 


(ii) improve the procedure for certification of films for public exhibition by the 
Central Board of Film Certification, as well as to improve the categorisations of the 
certification of the films; and 


(iii) harmonise the law with extant executive orders, judicial decisions and other 
relevant legislations. 


4. The Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2023, inter alia, provides for the following, 
namely:— 


(a) to substitute section 4 of the Act, relating to examination of films, so as to introduce 
the age-based certification in "UA" category into three age-based categories, namely “UA 
7+”, “UA 3+” and “UA l6+” and also to empower the Board to sanction the film with a 
separate certificate for its exhibition on television or such other media as may be prescribed; 


(b) to amend sub-section (3) of section 5A of the Act so as to give perpetual validity to 
the certificate of Central Board of Film Certification; 


(c) to omit sub-section (/) of section 6 of the Act relating to revisional powers of the 
Central Government in the light of Supreme Court judgment in the matter of Union of India 
Vs. K.M. Shankarappa; and 


(d) to insert new sections 6AA and 6AB relating to “Prohibition of unauthorised 
recording” and ‘“‘Prohibition of unauthorised exhibition of films” respectively. 


The proposed amendments would make the certification process more effective, in 
tune with the present times, and comprehensively curb the menace of film piracy, and thus 
help in faster growth of the film industry and boost job creation in the sector. 


5. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. 


New Delhi; ANURAG SINGH THAKUR. 
The 26th May, 2023. 


6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY Part II—Sec. 2] 


FINANCIAL MEMORANDUM 


The Bill, if enacted, would not involve any financial expenditure either recurring or 
non-recurring from and out of the Consolidated Fund of India. 


P.C. MODY, 


Secretary-General. 


PUBLISHED BY THE SECRETARY-GENERAL, RAJYA SABHA, UNDER RULE 68 OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE AND 
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS IN THE RAJYA SABHA AND UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI-0002 


MGIPMRND—53GI(S3)—20-07-2023. 


