रजिस्ट्री सं० डी० - ( डी . ) - 73 


— REGISTERED NO . D -( D ) - 13 


PAWW 


मत्यपान 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
सं0501 नई दिल्ली , शनिवार , दिसम्बर 13, 1975 ( अग्रहायण 22, 1897 ) 
· No. 50 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


-INA 


- 


. 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

माग III - खण्ड4 

PART III -SECTION 4 
विधिकनिकायों द्वारा जारी की गई विधिक अधिसूचनाएं जिसमें कि आवेश, मिज्ञापन और सूचनाएं 

सम्मिलित है 
Miscellaneous Notifications including Notifications, Orders , Advertisements and 

Notices issued by Statutory Bodies 


भारतीय चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार संस्थान 

नई दिल्ली - 1 ,दिनांक 12 नवम्बर 1975 
सं० 4 सी० ए० ( 1 ) 9/ 75 - 76 --. - चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
विनियम 1964 के विनियम 16 के अनुसरण में एतद् 
द्वारा यह सूचित किया जाता है कि चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
अधिनियम 1949 की धारा 20 उपधारा 1 ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त 
अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए भारतीय चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
संस्थान परिषद् ने अपने सदस्यता रजिस्टर में से मत्यु हो जाने 
के कारण निम्नलिखित सदस्यों का नाम आगे दी गई तिथियों 
से हटा दिया है:- - 


सं08 सी० ए० ( 1 )/ 13/ 75 -76 -- चार्टर प्राप्त लेखाकार 
विनियम 1964 के विनियम 10 ( 1 ) खंड ( तीन ) के अनुसरण 
में एतद्वारा यह सूचित किया जाता है कि निम्नलिखित 
सदस्यों को जारी किये प्रेक्टिस प्रमाणपत्र उनके नाम के मागे 
दी गई तिथियों से रह कर दिये गये हैं क्योंकि वे अपने प्रेक्टिस 
प्रमाण-पत्रों को रखने के इच्छुक नहीं : -- -- 


क्र०सं० स०सं० 


नाम एवं पता 


तिथि 


ए०सी० 


1-9- 75 


क्र० सं० स० सं० 


नाम एवं पता 


तिथि 


86 श्री एन० वी० बाजन , दामानीया 12- 9- 75 

पान्डे एण्ड बाजन , नवसारी 
बिल्डिंग डा० दादाभाई 

नेरोजी रो फोर्ट , बम्बई । 
2749 श्री के० एस० यारी , एच0 -445 , 27- 9 -75 

डी० डी० ए० फ्लेटस नाराएना , 
नई दिल्ली । 


1. 11838 श्री एस० के० सेम गुप्ता, ए०सी० 

ए० 33 बी०, कालीघाट रोड 

कलकत्ता । 
____ 2. 12162 श्री सी० सिंह , ए० सी० ए०, 1-11- 75 

26/4ए०, प्रारमेनन स्ट्रीट 

कलकत्ता । 
3. 16317 श्री एन० के० नेयर , ए० सी० ए० , 18- 8 - 75 

बी० 5/ 630, लोधी कालोनी , 
नई दिल्ली । 


2. 


पी० एस० गोपालाकृष्णम् , सचिन 


369GI/ 75 


( 2139 ) 


2140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) [ PART III - SEC. 4 


भारतीय प्रौद्योगिक वित्त निगम 
नई दिल्ली - 110001, दिनांक 27 मितम्बर 1975 
सं० 5/ 75 -~ - अधिसूचना सं० 4 / 75 दिनांक 11 
सितम्बर, 1975 के अनुक्रम में एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित किया 
जाता है कि 25 सितम्बर , 1975 को हुई निगम के शेयर 
धारियों की वार्षिक साधारण सभा में , महाराष्ट्र स्टेट कोपरेटिव 
बैंक लि०, सर विठलदास थेकर्स मेमोरियल बिल्सिग , 9 , 
बेकहाऊस लेन , बम्बई- 1 के अध्यक्ष श्री शामराव कदम को 
सहकारी बैंकों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए संचालक चुना 
हुपा घोषित किया गया , जो कि निगम के शेषरधारी है , अन्य 
दो प्रत्याशियों , अर्थात् ( 1 ) श्री जसभाई यु० पटेल तथा ( 2 ) 
श्री नन्ना लाल दयाभाई चौधरी ने अपनी उम्मीदवारी वापिस 
ले ली थी । 

आर० बी० माथुर 

महाप्रबन्धक 


पि 


नई दिल्ली , दिनांक 20 नवम्बर 1975 
__ सं० 6/ 75 - - भारतीय प्रौद्योगिक वित्त निगम के सामान्य 
विनियमों के विनियम 44 तथा 45 के अधीन प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए निगम के संचालक बोर्ड ने अपनी 30 
अक्तूबर , 1975 की बैठक में निगम के म्निलिखित वरिष्ठ 
तथा कनिष्ठ अधिकारियों को पुर्वापेक्षी पहली अगस्त , 1975 
से हस्ताक्षर करने की निम्नलिखित शक्तियों से अधिकृत किया 


( ख ) निगम के चालू तथा अधिकृत कार्य के 

सम्बन्ध में निगम की ओर से तथा द्वारा 
किए गए सभी विधिक दस्तावेजों , विलेखों 
तथा करारनामों को बंधित करने के लिए 
उनका निष्पादन तथा उन पर हस्ताक्षर 

करना । 
( 2 ) सहायक प्रबन्धकों (विधि )/ सहायक प्रबन्धकों ( तकनीकी ) 

ऋण अधिकारियों ( विधि )/ ऋण अधिकारियों ( तकनीकी ) 

( पहले क्रमशः विधि अधिकारियों , तकनीकी अधि 
कारियों , सहायक विधि अधिकारियों एवं सहायक 
तकनीकी अधिकारियों से अभिहित ) 
वचन पत्रों , स्टाक आवतियो , स्टाफ , डिबेंचरो, 

शेयरों, प्रतिभूतियों तथा निगम के नाम तथा 
के द्वारा रक्षित अधिकारों का पृष्ठांकन 
तथा हस्तांतरण करना , चेकों , विनिमय पन्नों 
और निगम के चाल तथा अधिकृत कार्य से 
सबंधित अन्य विलेखों की प्राप्ति , स्वीकृति , 
तथा पृष्ठांकन एवं इस प्रकार के कार्यों से 
सम्बन्धित सभी अन्य खातों , आवतियों, 
विलेखों , करारनामों संविदामों तथा दस्तावेजों 
पर हस्ताक्षर करना । 

बलदेव पसरीचा , 

अध्यक्ष 

- - .. 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम ( कर्मचारी वर्ग ) 

के विनिमय , 1960 में संशोधन 
सं० III (IV )/ 51/ 75- -- जीवन बीमा निगम अधि 
नियम , 1956 की धारा 49 की उप-धारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ब ) 
मोर ( बब ) के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए 
तथा केन्द्रीय सरकार के पूर्वानुमोदन के विनियम , 1960 में 
भारतीय जीवन बीमा निगम निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता है : 

इस विनियम के प्रस्ताव 29 के वर्तमान प्रावधान में निम्न 
लिखित प्रावधान स्थानापनित किया जाय 

___ " साथ ही निगम के किसी भी कर्मचारी को बीमा अभिकर्ता 
होने की स्वीकृति नहीं प्रदान की जायेगी और न ही कोई भी 
कर्मचारी अपने परिवार के किसी भी सदस्य को बीमा अभि 
कर्ता के रूप में कार्य करने देगा । 

एस० रंगाराजन प्रबन्ध निदेशक 


( 1 ) प्रबन्धकों ( तकनीकी ) तथा प्रबन्धकों (विधि ) 

( पहले क्रमश: वरिष्ठ तकनीकी अधिकारियों तथा 
वरिष्ठ विधि अधिकारियों से अभिहित ) 
( क ) वचन पत्रों , स्टाक पावतियों , स्टाक , डिबेंचरों, 

शेयरों, प्रतिभूतियों तथा निगम के नाम 
तथा के द्वारा रक्षित अधिकारों का पृष्ठांकन 
तथा हस्तांतरण करना , चैकों , विनिमय 
पत्रों और निगम के चाल तथा अधिकृत 
कार्य से सम्बन्धित अन्य विलेखों 
की प्राप्ति , स्वीकृति तथा 
पृष्ठांकन एवं बैंक खातों का संचालन और 
इस प्रकार के कार्यों से सम्बन्धित सभी अन्य 
खातों , आवतियों , विलेखों, करारनामों , संवि 
दानों तथा दस्तावेजों पर हस्ताक्षर करना । 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT OF 

INDIA 
New Delhi, 12th November 1975 


No . 4- CA (1 )/ 9 / 75 - 76 --In pursuance of Regulation 16 of 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations , 1964, it is hereby notj 
fied that in exercisc ofthe powers conferred by clause (a ) . . . . . . . . 

. . ... . . . . . .of Sub -Section (1 ) of Section 20 of the Chartorod 
Accountants Act , 1949 , the Council of the Jnstitute of Chartered 
Accountants of India , has removed from the Register of Mem - 
bors of this Instituto on account of death , with effect from tho 


dates mentioned against their names , the names of the 
following gentlemen ; 
S . Member 

Nameand Address D ate of 
No . ship No . 

Romoval 
1 . 86 Shri N. B. Bajan, 

12- 9 - 1975 
M /s . Damania Panday & Bajan , 
Naygari Building, 
Dr. Dadabhoy Naoroji Road, 

Fort. Bombay. 
2. 2749 Shri K . S. Chari, 

27 - 9 -1975 
H - 445, D . D . A. Flats , 
Nariana , 
New Delhi . 


PART III - SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2141 


( Formerly designated as Law Officers , Technical Officers , 
Asstt. Law Officers and Asstt. Technical Officers respectively ) . 


No . 8 C .A . (1) /13/ 75 -76 - - In pursuance of Clauso (ii) 
of Regulation 10 ( 1) of the Chartered Accountants 
Regulations, 1964 , it is hereby notified that the Certi 
ficate of Practice issued to the following mcmbers shall stand 
cancelled for th : period mentioned against their namçs , as they 
do not desire to hold their Certificato of Practice , 


To cndorse and transfer promissory notes , stock 
receipts , stock , debentures, sharcs , securities and 
documents of title to good standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw , accept and 
endorse chequcs , bills of exchange and other instru 
inents in the current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to sign all other accounts, receipts 
und documents connected with such business. 


S , Member - 
No. Ship No . 


Nanıç and Address 


Period dur 
ing which 
the 
Certificato 

shall 

stand 
Cancelled 


BALDEV PASRICHA , 

Chairman . 


1 


2 


34 


1 . 11638 


2. 12162 


Shri S . K . Sen Gupta , A . C . A . 1- 9 -1975 
33- B , Kalighat Road , 
Calcutta , 
Shri C . Singh , A . C . A ., 1 - 11-1975 
26 /4A , Armenian Street, 
Calcutta . 
ShriNK, Nayyar, A . C . A . 18 -8 - 1975 
B 5 /630 , Lodi Colony, 
New Delhi. 


EMPLOYEES STATE INSURANCE CORPORATION 

Jaipur, the 19th November 1975 
No. R / 18 - 7 / 73 - Csil. It is hereby notified that the Local 
Committcc consisting of the following members bas been re 
constitụted for Sawai Madhopur Area under Regulation 10 - A 
of the Employees State Insurance (General ) Regulation, 1950 
w .e .f, the date of notification , 


3 . 


16317 


P . S . GOPALAKRISHNAN 

Secretary 


INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF 

INDIA NEW DELHI 

New Delhi, the 27th cptember 1975 
No. 5 / 75. - In continuation of Notification No. 4 / 75 dated 
the 11th September , 1975, it is hereby notified that at the 
Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of the Corpo 
ration held on the 25th September 1975 . Shri Shamrao 
Kadam , Chairman , The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank 
Ltd ., Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Memorial Building. 9 -Bake 
housc Lane , Bombay - ], was declared elected as a Director to 
represent the cooperative banks, which are the shareholders 
of the Corporation ; the other two candidates, viz .. ( 1 ) Shri 
Jashbhai U . Patel and ( 2 ) Shri Nanalal Dahyabhai Chokshi 
having withdrawn their candidature , 

R . B . MATHUR , 
General Manager . 


CHAIRMAN 
Under Regulation 10 - 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) 

District Mcdical & Health Officer, 
Sawai Madhopur. 

MEMBERS 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) ( b ) 

Regional Asstt. Labour Commissioner, 

BHARATPUR . 
Under Regulation 10 - 4 ( 1 ) (C ) 

Insurance Medical Officer, Incharge, 
E . S .I. Dispensary , 

Sawa: Machopur. 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) (21) 

Shri N . N , Sharma , 
Personnel Hicer , 
Jaipur Udyos Ltd . 

Sawai Madhopur. 
Under Regulation 10 - A ( 1 ) ( C ) 

Shri N . P . Jain , 
Cement Works Kuramchari Sungh , 
Sahunagar , 

Sawai Madhopur. 
Under Regulation 10 - 4 ( 1 ) ( ) . 

The Manager, 
Mini. Local Officer, 
Sawai Madhopur. 

U . P . SAXENA , 
Regional Director 


New Delhi, the 20th November 1975 
No . 6 / 75. - In pursuance of the Regulations 44 and 45 of 
the General Regulations of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India , the Board of Directors of the Corporation at their 
meeting held on the 30th October 1975 have authorised the 
following Senior and Junior Officers of the Corporat:on to 
exercise the signing powers with retrospective effect from the 
1st August, 1975 , as follows : 

( 1) Managers ( Technical) and Managers ( Law ) 

( Formerly designated as Senior Technical Officers and 
Senior Law Officers respectively ) . 
( a ) To endorse and transfer promissory notes, stock 

receipts , stock , dobentures, shares, securities and 
documents of title to goods standing in the name of 
or held by the Corporation and to draw , accept and 
endorse cheques , bills of exchange and other instru 
ments in the current and authorised business of the 
Corporation and to operate bank accounts and to 
sign all other accounts , receipts, deeds, agreements, 
contracts and documents connected with such busi 

nces . 
( b ) To sign and execute on bchalf of the Corporation 

all legal documents , instruments and agreements 
which are required to be executed for and on behalf 
of the Corporation in connection with the current 
and authorised business of the Corporation . 


LIFE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA 
Amendment to the Life Insurance Corporation of India 

( Staff ) Regulations, 1960 
Bombay, the 

1975 
No . 11 ( IV ) / 51 /75, - In exercise of the powers vested in it 
under clauses ( b ) and ( bb ) of Sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
49 of the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956 , the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India , with the previous approval 
of the Central Government, makes the following amondmont 
to the Life Insurance Corporation of India ( Staff ) Regula 
lions, 1960 . 

In Regulation 29 of the said Regulations, for the existing 
proviso , the following proviso ghall be substituted namely : 

" Provided that no employee of the Corporation shall be 
permitted to act as an insurance agent and no employce shall 
allow any member of his family to act as an insurance agent" . 


( 2 ) 


Assistant Managers (Law ) / Assistant Manager 
( Technicals ) Loans Olicers ( Law ) / Loans Officers 
( Technical ) 


S . RANGARAJAN , 
Managing Director 


2142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III Sec , 4 


TRUST 


OIL & NATURAL GAS COMMISSION 

SECRETARIAT 
No. 17 ( 11 ) / 69-Reg . - In exercise of the powers conferred 
by section 32 of the Oli and Natural Gas Commission Act, 
1939 ( 43 of 1959 ) , and all other powers enabling hereinto 
the Oil and Natural Gas Commission hereby nakes, with 
the previous approval of the Central Government, the follow . 
ing rogulations relating to the terms and conditions of 
appointment and service of the employees , namely : 


(b ) by the terms or conditions of service , or any agrec 

pent, subsisting between such person and the Gov 

erment; or 
( c ) by the terms or any agreement subsisting between 

him and the Commission at the commencement of 
those regulations . 


1 . Short Title and Commencement : 

( 1 ) These regulations may be called the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission ( Terms and Conditions of Appointment and 
Service ) Regulations , 1975 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publi 
cation in the Official Gazette , 


4 . Nationality : 

A candidate for appointment to the service of the Com 
mission must be 

( a ) a citizen of India , or 
(b ) a subject of Nepal, or 
( c ) a subject of Bhutan , or 
( d ) a Tibetan refugee who came over to India , betorc 

1st January , 1962 with the intention of permanently 

settling in India , Or 
( c ) a person of Indian origin who has suigrated from 

Pakistan , Burma, Ceylon and East African countries 
of Kenya, Uganda and the United Republic of Tan 
zania ( formerly Tanganyika und Zanzibar ) with 

the intention of permanently settling in India . 
Provided that a candidate belonging to categories ( b ) , 
( 2 ) , ( a ) and ( o ) shall be a person in whose favoura 
certificate of eligibility has been granted by the Government. 
5 . Verification of Character and Antecedents : 

The inclusion of a candidate s name in the list of candi 
dates selected , confers no right to appointment unless the 
appointing authority is satisfied , after such enquiries as may 
be considered Accessary, that the candidate having regard to 
his character and antecedents, is suitable in all respects for 
appointment . 


6 . Marriage Declararion : 


2 . Definitions ; 

In these regulations, unless tho context otherwise re 
quires : 
(a ) " Act" means the Oil and Natural Gas Commission 

Act, 1959 (43 of 1959 ) ; 
(b ) " appointing Authority , in relation to any post, means 

the Commission and includes any person or 
authority to whom tho power to make appointment 
to that post has been delegated by the Commission 

under section 26 of the Act; 
( c ) " Commission " means the Oil and Natural Gas Com 

mission established under the Act; 
( d ) " competent authority in relation to the exercise 

of a power , means the Commission and includes 
any officer or authority to whom the power is de 
legated by the Commission under section 26 of the 

Act; 
(e ) "Government" means the Central Goveroment; 
( f ) " employee " means a person who holds a post under 

the Commission and includes any such person whose 
services are temporarily placed at the disposal of a 
State Government or the Central Government or 
any Government Industrial Undertaking ; 
" ljen " means the title of an employee to hold subs 
tantively , either immediately or on termination of 
a period or periods of absence, a permanent post 
including a tenure post, to which he has been ap 

pointed substantively ; 
(h ) " Standing Committec " means the committee consist 

ing of whole -time members ; 
(i) " tenuro post” means a permanent post which in 

individual employee may not hold for more than 
a limited period , 
NOTE : In case of doubt, the Commission or any 

person or authority to whom the power is 
delegated by the Commission under section 26 
of the Act, may decide whether a parliculur 
post is or is not a tonure post, 


( 1 ) ( a ) No person who has entered into , or contracted 

a marriage with a person having a spouse living; 
ог 


(b ) who, having a spouse living, has entered into 

or contracted a marriage with any person , shall 
be eligible for appointment to , any post la tho 

Commission : 
Provided that the Commission may, if it is satisfied that 
such marriagC is permissible under the personal law applica 
ble to such person and the other party to the marriage and 
there are other grounds for so doing , exempt any person from 
the operation of this regulation , 
( 2 ) An employee who has married or marrics a person 

other than of Indian Nationality shall forthwith 
Intimate the fact to the Commission , 


7. Medical Certificate on First Entry : 

No person shall be appointed to a post in the Commission 
without a medicul certificate of health obtained in accordance 
with the procedure prescribed in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission (Medical Examination of Employees ) Regula 
tions, 1965 : 

Provided that the Commission may by order exempt either 
permanently or temporarily any candidate or a class of 
candidates from the production of such certificate of fitness 
and if tcmporary exemption is granted , the modical examina 
tion shall be required to be completed within a period of 
three months from the date of actual joining of the post. 


3. Application : 

( 1 ) These regulations shall apply to all the employees of 
the Commission , except -- 
( a ) those on foreign service terms with the Commigsion 

in whose case the terms and conditions of appoint 
ment and service agreed to between the Commission 

and the lending organisation would apply ; and 
(b ) those poid from contingencies who shall be governed 

by the provisions of the standing orders in force . 
( 2 ) Nothing in these regulations shall operate to deprive 
any omployee of any right or privilege to which he is 
entitled — 

(a ) by or under any law for the time being in force; or 


8 . Date of Birth : 

( 1 ) Every employee newly appointed to a service or post 
under the Commission shall at the time of appointment declare 
the date of his birth by the Christian Era with confirmatory 
documentary evidence such as Matriculation Certificuto or 
Municipal birth certificate. If the exact date is not known , 
an approximate date duly supported by confirmatory evi 
dance to the satisfaction of the appointing authority , shall 
be given , 


2143 


PART III — SEC . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


ETUS 


. 


. . 


- 


( 2 ) The actual date or the assumed date deteimined under 
sub - regulation ( 3 ) shall be recorded in the history of service , 
service book or any other record that may be kopt in respect 
of the employee s service under the Commission and , onco 
recorded, it cannot be altered , except in thọ case of a clerical 
error, without the previous orders of the appointing authority , 


NOTE : Request for alteration of date of birth should not 

be entertained after the preparation of service books 
of the employees concerned , and in any cvent not 
later than the completion of the probation period. 
The date of birth may, however, be altered at a 
later stage by a competent authority if that authority 
is satisfied that a bonafide clerical mistake hias been 
committed and that it should be rectified. Efforts 
should , however , be made to settle the nates within 

the period stated above , 
( 3 ) If an employce is unable to state his cxact date of 
birth but can state the year , or year and month of birth , 
the 1st July or 16th of a month respectively shall be treated 
as the date of birth . 

( 4 ) If an employee is only able to state his approximate 
age , his date of birth shall be assumed to be the correspond 
ing date after deducting the number of years representing his 
age from his dute of appointment. 

( 5 ) When a person who first entered in military service , 
is subsequently employed in the Commission , the date of 
birth for the purposo of the employment in the Cominission 
shall be the date stated by him at the time of attestation or 
if at the time of attestation he stated only his anc , the date 
of birth shall be deduced with reference to that age according 
to sub - regulation ( 4 ) . 

( 6 ) In the case of illiterate cmployee, the date of birth 
declared by him shall be recorded by an officer not lower 
in rank than a Head of office under his dated signature . 


9 . Oath of Allegiance : 

Every new entrant to service under the Commission shall 
tako oath or solemnly affirm his allegiance to the Consti( 17. 
tion of India as by law established in the following fou , 
that is to say : 

do swear/ solcmnly affirm that I will 
be faithful and bear true allegiance to India and to the 
Constitution of India as by law established and that I 
will carry out the duties of my office loyally , honestly 
and with impartiulity . 
" SO HELP ME GOD " 

Signature of candidate 

Date : 
* Applicable in case of oath only. 
10 . Probation : 

( 1 ) Every person appointed 10 A post cither by direct re 
cruitment or by departmeotal promotion , shall be on proba 
tion for a period of one year : 


progress is not satisfactory during the period of probation , 
may be ; 

( i) discharged from the service of the Commission if 

he is a direct recruit from the open market, or 
( i ) reverted to it lower post , if he is & promotee, or 

was appointed to the higher post as a departmental 
employee against direct recruitment without any 

notico or any reason being assigned . 
11. Confirmation against Permanent Post : 

The cmployecs of the Commission will be eligible for 
confirmation against rermanent posts in accordance with the 
principles as laid down in Annexure I appended to these re 
gulations . 
12 . Substantive Appointment : 

( 1 ) Two or morc cmployecs cannot be appointed substan 
tively to the same permanent post at the same time. 

( 2 ) An employce cannot be appointed substantively except 
ds & temporary measure to two or more permanent posts at 
the same time. 

( 3 ) An employce cannot be appointed substantively to a 
post on which another employee holds e lien 
13. Lien : 

( 1 ) Unless in any case it be otherwise provided in these 
regulations , an cmployee on substantive appointment to any 
permanent post , acquires a lien on that post and ceases to 
hold any lien previously acquired on any other post. 

( 2 ) Unless his lien is suspended under regulation 14 or 
translated under regulation 16 , an employee holding subs 
Lantively a permanent post retains a lien on that post - 

( a ) while performing the duties of that post; 
(b ) while on foreign service or holding & temporary 

post, or officiating in another post ; 
c ) during joining time on transfer to another post, 

unless he is transferred substantively to a post on 
lower pay in which case his liep is transferred to 
the new post from the date on which he is relieved 

of his duties in the old post; 
( d ) while on leave other than refused leave granted 

after the date of compulsory retirement ; and 
( e ) while under suspension, 
14 . Suspension of Lien : 

( 1 ) The competent authority shall suspend the lien of an 
employec on a permanent post which he holds substantively , 
if he is appointed in a substantive capacity : 

(a ) to a tenure post, or 
( b ) provisionally , to a post on which another employee 

would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended 

under this regulation , 
( 2 ) The competent zuthority may , at its discretion sys 
pend the lion of an employee on a permanent post which 
he holds substantively , if he is deputed out of India or 
lian feried to foreign service , or in circumstances not covered 
by sub - 1egulation ( 1 ) is transferred in an officiating capacity , 
to a post in another cadre and if in any of these cases there 
is reason to believe that he will remain absent from tho 
post on which he holds a lien for a period of not less than 
three years . 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub - regulation 
( 1 ) or ( 2 ) an employee s lien on a tenure post may in no 
circumstances be suspended and if be is appointed substantive 
ly to another permanent post, his lien on ihc tenure post must 
be terminated 

( 4 ) If an cmployee s lien is suspended under sub -regulation 
( 1 ) or ( 2 ) the post may be fled substantively and the 
cmployee appointed to hold it substantively shall acquire a 
lien on it ; 

Provided that the arrangements shall be reversed as soon 
as suspended licn revives . 
Noie ; When a post is filled substantively under this rogu 

lation the appointment will be termed " provisional 
appointment" , the employees appointed will hold a 
provisional lion on the post and that lien will be 
liable to suspension under sub -regulation ( 1 ) . 


Provided that the appointing authority nay cxtend the 
period of probation by any period , which shall not normally 
cxceed one yeur, except for special rcason to be recorded in 
writing; but no employec shall be kept on probat ion for a 
total period exceeding three years in any post . 

( 2 ) During the period of probation , an employec may be 
required to PASS a written examination of a proficiency test 
or a trade test within a specified period , or in a specified 
number of chances, and on such conditions, as mixy bc speci 
fied in this behalf. 

( 3 ) A decision on the question whether an employee should 
be deemed to have completed the period of probation satis 
factorily , or whether his probation should be extended , shall 
ordinarily be taken within a period of two months from tho 
date of expiry of the period of probation and communicat 
ed in writing to the employee 

( 4 ) An employee , who fails to complete his probation 
satisfactorily , of who fails to pass the written examination , 
proficiency (est or trade iesi mentioned in sub - regulation ( 2 ) , 
within the specifled period or chances or within such extend 
ed period or chances, as may be allowed to him , or whose 


2144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) ( PART II1 - SEC . 4 


(b ) Non - selection posts : Posts , promolion to which shall 

be made by seniority subject to rejection of the 

unft. 
( 2 ) Promotions shall be made in accordance with the 
regulations made in this behalf. 


( 5 ) An employee s lien which has been suspended under 
sub -regulation ( 1 ) shall revive as soon as ho ceases to hold 
Alien on a post of the nature specified in clause (b ) of 
sub - regulation ( 1 ) . 

( 6 ) An employce s lien suspended under sub - regulation ( 2 ) 
shall revive as soon as he ceases to be on deputation out 
of India or on foreign service or to hold a post in another 
cadre ; 

Provided that a suspended lien shull not revive because 
the employce takes leave if there is reason to believe that 
he may , on return from leave , continue to be on deputation 
out of India or on foreign service or to hold 6 post in 
another cadre and the total period of absence on duty may 
not fall short of three years or that he may hold substantive 
by a post of the nature specificd in clause ( a ) or ( b ) of 
sub -regulation ( 1) . 
15 . Termination of Lion : 

( 1 ) An employee s lion on a post may , in no circumstance 
cs, be terminated , even with his consent, if thc result shall 
be to leave him without a licn or a suspended len upon a 
a permanent post, 


21. Loan of Services of the Employees of the Comniission 

on Foreign Service Terms : 
( 1 ) The permanent employees , and those temporary em 
ployees of the Commission who have put in 3 years service 
in the Commission , may be allowed to go on deputation to 
other organisations . The deputation in cach case , shall be 
approved by the Standing Committee or Commission and the 
period of deputation may be 2 years in the first instance , 
The model foreign service terms and conditions in such cases 
are given in Annexure III appended to these regulations and 
to the extent possible , the actual forcign service terms and 
conditions should conform to the model terms : 

Provided that no employee will be allowed to proceed on 
deputation to private organisations. 

( 2 ) In A case where the services of an employee have been 
placed at the disposal of an outside authority , he shall be 
entitled to all the protection or benefits 3 would have been 
accrued to him had he been present in the Commission in 
accordance with the principles of " next below rule " under 
which tho competent Authority is empowered to specify posis 
outside the ordinary line of a service whereupon the employec 
belonging to that service would be entitled to receive the 
benefit of any officiating promotion he would have received 
in the normal line but for his being outside the normal 


( 2 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulation ( 1 ) 
of regulation 14 , the lien of an employee holding substantive 
ly a permanent post shall be terminated while on refused 
leave granted after the date of compulsory retirement. 

( 3 ) An employee s lien on a post shall stand terminated 
on his acquiring a licn on a permanent post ( whether under 
the Central Government or State Government ) outside the 
cadre on which he is borne . 
16 . Transfer of Lien : 

Subject to the provisions of regulation 18 , a competent 
authority may tranfser to another permanent post in the 
same cadre the lien of an employce who is not performing 
the dulies of the post to which the lien relates, even if 
that lien has been suspended , 


line . 


17. Subscription to Funds : 

An employec may be required to subscribe to the Const 
butory Provident Fund or other siniilar funds in accordance 
with the regulations made in this behalf. 
18 . Transfer and Training : 

( 1 ) A competent authority may transfer an employee 
from one post to another provided that except ; 

(a ) on account of inefficiency or misbehaviour ; or 

( b ) on his written request ; 
an employee shall not be transferred substantively to or 
appointed to officiato in a post carrying less pay than the pay 
of the permanent post on which he holds a lien or would 
hold a licn had his lien not been suspended under regula 
tion 14 , 


NOTE : The intention underlying the next below rule is 

that an officer out of his regular linc should not 
suffer by forfeiting his promotion which he would 
otherwise have received , had he remained in his 
regular line. From that it follows that the fortuit 
ous acting promotion of some one junior to an 
oficer who is out of tho regular line does not, in 
itself, give rise to a claim under the next below 
rule . Before such a claim is established it should 
be necessary that all the officers senior to the 
officer who is out of the regular line bave been 
given acting promotion and also the officer next 
helow him unless in any case the acting promotion 
is not given becausc of inefficiency , unsuitability 
or leave. In the event of one of these three bars 
being applicable to the officer immediately below 
the officer outside his regular line, then some other 
officer, even more junior should have received act 
ing promotion and the officers, if any, in between 
should have been passed over for one of these 
Teasons. 


( 2 ) An cmployce shall be liable either to serve or undergo 
training or both anywhere in and outside India and such 
employce shall execute a bond binding himself to serve the 
Commission after the completion of the training for such 
period as may be specificd in this behalf by the Commission , 

( 3 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub -regulations 
( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , where a cudre or service has been decentralised 
into two or more zones, the transfers shall normally be 
made within that zonc . 
19 . Senivrity : 

Seniority of an employee shall be determined in the grade 
And cadre to which he belongs in accordance with the princi 
ples as laid down in Annexure Il appended to those regula 
tions. 


22. No Objection Certificate for Registration with Employment 

Exchange : 
( 1 ) No employee of the Commission , whether permanent 
or temporary , shall be granted No objection certificate for 
registration with the Employment Exchange for higher posts 
during the period of probation and one year after successful 
completion of the period of probation . This restriction , how 
cver, need 110t be made applicable , in the case . 

( i) employecs belonging to Scheduled Castes or Schedul 

ed Tribes possessing educational or technical quali 
fications higher than those required for posts alrcady 

held by them ; 
( ii ) employees holding posts , equivalent to Class IV 

and who are educationally or technically qualified 
for higher posts ; and 


20. Promotiothe 
purpose into the 


( 1 ) For the purpose of promotion , posts in the Commis 
sion shall be classified into the following two categories , 
zamely : 
(A ) Selection posts : Posts, promotion to which shall be 

made by selection based on meril with due regard 
to seniority . 


( iii) employees reverted to a lower post otherwise than 

as a measure of penalty and whose emoluments 

have been reduced by more than 20 per cent. 
( 2 ) Temporary employees may be granted No objection 
certificate for registering their names with the Employment 
Exchanges for higher posts after they have completed their 
probation period successfully and havo put in one year s 
service thereafter if they possess qualifications for higher 
posts , 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2145 


( 3 ) Pormanent employees may also be granted No objec 
lion certificate after they have completed probation period 
successfully and have put in one year s service thereafter . 
The giant if such No objection certificate to permanent 
employces shall be subject to the following conditions , 
namely : 


( 7 ) A resignation becomes effective when it is accepted 
and the cmployce is relieved of his duties . Wherc a resigna 
tion has not becoinc effective and the cmployee wishes to 
withdraw it, the authority who accepted the resiguation 
may either peimit the employee to withdraw the resigna 
lion or refuse the request for such withdrawal. 


( i) The employce should be registered only for a post 

higher than the one he is holding in the Commission , 
In cases of doubt as to whether the port for which 
a permanent employee intends to register his name 
with the Employment Exchange is higher than the 
one he is holding in the Commission the decision 
of the competent authority shall be final. 


NOTE : Where a resignation has become effective, the 

acceptance of request for withdrawal of resignation 
amounts to re - employment. In such cases, the 
Testoiation of benefits of past service shall require 
prior concurrence of the Commission , 


24. Termination of Service : 


( ii) On being selected for appointment by a Govern 

ment Department or any Public Sector Undertaking 
for the higher post, he may be trcated as on foreign 
Service , as per terms of foreign sorvice specified by 
the Commission . On the expiry of period of foreign 
service , he should either rovert to the Commission 
or resign his post held in the Commlusion . 


( 1 ) Except as may specifically be provided in tho contract 
of service , the scrvices of a temporary employce shall be 
liable to termination at any time without Assigning any 
l easons by a notice in writing given cither by the employec 
to the appointing authority or by the appointing authority 
to the employee and the period of such notice shall be one 
month ; 


( ii) Once an employee has reverted to the Commission , 

he should not be allowed a No objectior certificate 
to register his name once again for a period of 
atleast two years . 


Provided that the services of any such employce may bo 
terminated forthwith and on such termination , the employce 
shall be entitled to claim a sum equivalent to the amount 
of his pay plus allowances for the period of the notice 
at the same rates at which he was drawing them immediately 
before the termination of his service , or, as the case may 
be , for the period by which such notice falls short of one 
month . 


23 . Resignation : 

( 1) The authority competent to accept resignation of an 
cmployee is the appointing authority . 


( 2 ) ( a ) Every employee other than an employce on pro 
bation , shall he required to give one month s notice in 
writing to the Commission while submitting his resignation : 


Provided that an employee who has been declared perma 
nent shall be required to give three months notice . 


Provided further that in the case of an employee who is 
under suspension or against whom disciplinary proceedings 
for imposition of major penally have been initiated , tho 
issue of a notice by the employee for termination of his 
employment shall not cause the appointment to be terminat 
ed, unless the appointing authority considers that it would 
be in the interest of the Commission to permit termination 
of the appointment. The termination of appoinment shall 
become effective only when such a termination is accepted 
by the appointing authority and from such date as may be spe . 
cified by the appointing authority . If the authority competent 
to dismiss such an employec is higher than the appointing 
authority , the orders of the former shall be obtained before 
the resignation is accepted by the appointing authority . 


( 6 ) If an employee leaves the service of the Commission 
without requisite notice , then without prejudice to any other 
action which may be taken against him , the Commission 
may deduct from his pay and allowances and any other 
personal claims due to him , a sum equivalent to his pay and 
allowances for the neriod of notice required under clause 
( a ) or the unexpired period thereof. 


( 3 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -regulation (2 ) , 
the appointing authority may , at its discretion , accept the 
resignation of the employee with immediate effect or with 
effect from any time before the expiry of the notice period, 
and may also waive the recovery from the employee s pay 
and allowances in lieu thereof. 


( 2 ) ( a ) whore a notice is given by the appointing authority 
terminating the services of a temporary employee or whero 
the service of any such employee are terminated either 
on the expiry of the neriod of such notice or forthwith 
hy payment of pay nlus allowances, the Commission or any 
other authority specified by the Commission in this behalt 
may, of its own motion or otherwise re - open the case , and 
after calling for the records of the case and after making 
such inquiry as it deems Alt. 


( 4 ) In the case of an employee who is engaged on work 
of importance and it would take time to make alternative 
arrangements for filling the post, iho Appointing authority 
may accept the resignation only after alternative arrangements 
have been made for filling up the post, even if this period 
cxceeds the normal notice period of one month referred to 
in sub -regulation ( 2 ) . 


taken 


by 


the 


appointing 


(i) confirm the action 

authority; 
( ii) withdraw the notico ; 


( 5 ) In the case of an employee , whose conduct is under 
inquiry , or who is under suspension , the resignation shall not 
ordinarily be accepted unless the appointing authority consi 
ders that having regard to the merits of the disciplinary 
casc , pending against him , it would be in the interest of the 
Commission to accept his resignation . 


( iii ) reinstate the employee in service ; or 
( iv ) make such other order in the case as 

consider proper ; 


it may 


Provided that except in special circumstances which should 
be recorded in writing, no case shall be re-opened under 
this sub -regulation after the expiry of three months; 


Provided that if the authority competent to dismiss such 
an employee is higher than the appointing authority the 
orders of the former shall be obtained before the resignation is 
accepted by the appointing authority . 


(i) from the date of notice, in a case where notice 

is given ; 


( 6 ) The authority competent to accept the resignation 
Shall specify , in cach case , the date from which the resigna 
tion should become effective if not immediately . 


( ii ) from the date of termination of service in a case 

where no notice is given . 


2146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22. 1897) 


(PART III - SEC , 4 


( b ) where an employee is reinstated in servico 
item ( iil) of clause (a ), the order of reinstatement 
specify : 


under 
shall 


26 . Re-Appointment : 


(i ) the amount or proportion of pay and allowances, 

if any, to be paid to the employee for the period 
of his absence between the date of termination of 
his services and the date of his reinstatement; and 


( 1 ) No person who has been dismissed from the service 
of the Commission or Government or Public Undertaking, 
or local authoi itics or body corporate shall be re - employed . 
A person who has been compulsorily retired or romoved 
from servicc may be re -employed with the prior approval of 
the Commission or Government as the case may be. 

(2 ) An appointing authority may re -employ a person who 
has resigned from scrvice or whose services have been ter 
minated under sub -regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 24 in con 
sultalion with the authority under whom he was previously 
working . 


( ii ) whether the said period shall be treated as a 

period spent on duty for any specified purpose or 
purposes. 


( 3 ) Nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the 
power of the appointing authority in taking action against 
the employees under regulation 6 of the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission (Medical Examination of Employees ) 
Regulations, 1965 . 


27. Share in any Contract : 

No person , who directly or indirectly by himself or his 
agent has any share or interest in any contract by or on 
behalf of the Commission or in any employment under the 
Commission, otherwise than as an employee thereof, shall 
become or remain in employ of the Commission and tho 
decision of the Commission as to whether a person has any 
such interest will be final. 


25. Retirement i 

( 1 ) Every employee , other than those referred to in sub 
regulation ( 2 ) below shall retire from the afternoon of the 
last day of the month in which he attains the age of 
58 years. 


(2 ) An employee whosc maximum of the scale of pay 
is Rs. 154 / - or less shall be retained in service till the 
afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains 
the age of sixty years . 


28. Bar against Employment after Retirement : 

No person who has retired from the servico of the 
Commission , after such retirement, shall accept any appoint 
ment or post whether advisory or administrative , in any 
firm or company whether Indian or Foreign with which 
the Commission has or bad business relations , within two 
years from the dale of his retirement, without prior approval 
of the Commission , 


(3 ) An employee to whom sub -regulation ( 1 ) applies 
may be granted extension of service after he attains the 
age of retirement as specified therein , with the sanction of 
the Commission , if such extension is in the interest of the 
Commission and tho grounds therefor are recorded in 
writing, 


29. Record of Service : 

A record of the particulars of service of each employee 
shall he maintained in the service Book or Service sheet 
of the employee in such form and in guch manner as may 
be specified by the Commission from time to time. 


Provided that no extension under this sub - regulation shall 
be granted for a period exceeding two years, except in 
very special circumstances, 


( 4 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this regulation , 
the appointing authority shall , if it is of the opinion that 
it is in the commission s interest to do so , have the absolute 
right to retire any employee after he has attained the age 
of fifty years, by giving him notice of not less than three 
months in writing or three months pay and allowances in 
lieu of such notice , 


30 . Saving : 

Nothing in these regulations shall affect reservations and 
other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of 
persons in accordance with the orders jasued by the Govern 
ment from time to time, and adopted by the Commission, 


Provided that nothing in this sub -regulation shall apply 
to employees referred to in sub - regulation ( 2 ) who entered 
the Commission s service on or before the date on which 
these regulations come into forco . 


31. Interpretation : 

If any doubt arises regarding the interpretation of any 
provision of these regulations, the matter shall be referred 
to the Director of Personnel who shall decide the game in 
consultation with the Director of Finance and Accounts. 
However, the ficance need not be consulted in a mattor 
which has no financial implication . 


( 5 ) Any employee may by giving notice of not less than 
thrto months in writing to the appointing authority retire 
from service after he has attained the age of fifty years . 
Provided that - 
( a ) nothing in this sub - regulation shall apply to an 

employee referred to in sub -regulation ( 2 ) who 
entered the Commission s service on or beforo the 
date on which these regulations come into force ; 


32. Relaxation : 

Where the Commission is satisfied that the operation of 
any regulation or provision regulating the conditions of 
service of its employees or any class of such employces 
causes undue hardship in any particular case , it may , by 
order, dispense with or relax the requirements of that 
regulation or provision to such extent and subject to such 
conditions as it may consider necessary for dealing with the 
case in a just and equitable manner. 


and 


(b ) if shall be open to the appointing authority to 

withhold permission to an employeo ander suspen 
sion who seeks to retire under this sub - regulation , 


K . K . DHAR , 
Secretary to the Commission 


= = 


= 


= 


= 


PART III-_ Sec . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2147 

= 
ANNEXURE I 

( a ) the Director of Personnel - for all former class I 

und II officers and centralised category of former 
(Regulation 11 ) 

class III posts : 
PRINCIPLES FOR PERMANENCY 

Provided that in the case of Class I posts, appro 
1, A . Declaring Employees as Permanent : 

val of appointing authority will be obtained ; and 
General Principles : 

(b ) the Director of Personnel or the General Manager - 

for all former class III and IV decentralised cate 
(a ) Employees may be declared permanent strictly 

gory of poats of their respective regions : 
according to their seniority in tho cadro . 

Provided that the allocation of posts to be de 
( b ) Two or moro employees of the Commission can 

claved permanent will be made by the Headquar 
not be declared permanent against the same post 

ters . 
At the samo timo 

2 . ( 1 ) Confirmation of employces against permanent posts 
( c ) No Government servant on Foreign Service or in disregard of the above provisions shall be erroneous. 

the Commission may be declared pormanent if he Confirmation shall be cencelled if the Order of confirma 
holds a lien on a permanent post in Central Gov- tion was clearly contrary to these regulations . 
ernment or State Government Departments. 

(a ) if the order of confirmation was made when there 
( d ) An employce of the Commission cannot be de 

was no substantive vacancy and the confirming 
clarcd permanent agajnst two or more permanent 

authority had no power to create the post in which 
posts at the same time. 

the officer was confimed . 


( e ) Employees may be declared permancat with 1etros 

pective effect, provided that : 


( b ) if the order of confirmation was made in error, 

e 8 , naming wrong person ; mistake in identity . 


(i) a permanent post existed on the date ; 


(il) tho employee concerned wag working in the 

grade on that date ; 


( 2 ) Orders of confirmation in the above mentioned cases 
arc void abinitio and the employce does not acquire any 
right to hold the post in which the order purported to con 
firm him . Therefore the procedure of " show cause notice " 
is not required to be followed before cancelling the order of 
confirmation , 


(ili ) where an employee under suspension is re 

instated and it is decided to treat the period 
of suspension as duty for all purposes, the 
employee may be declared permanent from 
the date on which he would have been cor 
mally confirmed even though he was under 
suspension on that date . 


ANNEXURE II 


B . Sultability and Fitness : 


( Regulation 19 ) 


PRINCIPLES FOR SENIORITY 
The following principley will be followed for regulating 
the seniority of the employces in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission : 


Before declaring permanent, competent authority shall 
satisfy itself that the person concerned has -- 
(i) character, conduct and work to render him suitable 

for permanent retention in the servico of the 

Commission; 
(ü ) passed the specified departmental tests, if any ; 
( lii) been examined by an appropriate medical authority 

and foupd fit ; 
( iv ) completed satisfactorily his probation poriod ; 
( v ) completed 3 years service in the Commission in 

the grade in which the employce la to be confirmed , 


A . Direct Recruits 
(i) The inter-se - seniority of candidates selected on 

any one occasion shall be determined in the order 
of merit in which they are placed by the selection 
committee . 


C . Security of Service and Benefits . 

If there is reduction in the Establishment of the Commis 
gion , the service of a permanent employce shall not be 
liable to termination so long as any post of the same grade 
held by him , continues to be held by an employee not in 

permanent strvice in the Commission . 


( ii ) Where persons recruited initially on probation , are 

confirmed subsequently , in an order different from 
the order of merit indicated at the time of their 
selcction , seniority shall follow the order of con 
fiimation and not the original order of mcrit . 


In cascę where the period of probation of an 
employee is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the cm 
ployee is subsequently exonerated , his probation 
will be regularised from the date on which it 


D . The competent authority for declaring employees perma 
shall bo, 
2 - 36961/ 75 


2148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - SEC , 4 


would have otherwise been regularised but for the 
pendency of the vigilance or disciplinary case. 


divided into different cadres on regional project 
or Directorate basis , eligible persons shall be 
placed in separate lists in order of their inter- sc 
seniority in the l espective grades or cadres . 


(a ) If the promotion is to be made on the basis of 

merit alone , the Departmental Promotion Com 
mittee shall prepare a Select ligt on the 
basis of merit. Promotion shall be made from 
this Select list in the order in which the namos 
have been so finally arranged ; 


( iii ) The candidates who are offered the appointments 

in the Commission against direct recruitment quota 
shall be asked to join within 1 } months from the 
date of receipt of offer in order to retain their 
ocniority . When a candidate at the time of 
applying or Interview indicates, that ho would need 
moro time and this fact is duly noted when placing 
him on the selection list, he may be allowed to 
join within a maximum period of 100 days from 
the date of issue of the order . If, however , tho 
candidato is an employce of the Oil & Natural 
Gay Commission and cannot join within the afore 
said period of one and half months , on account of 
exigencies of work then the appointing authority 
may , if it is satisfied that thọ candidate is unable 
to join duty in the exigencies of the Commission s 
work , extend the period within which the candidate 
would be permitted to join without losing his 
seniority by a maximum of two months ( in addi 
tion to 1 months allowed to outsiders ) . 


(b ) If, however, the promotion is to be made on 

the basis of seniority -cum - fitness, i.e. seniority 
subject to the rejection of unfit, the Depart 
mentul Promotion Committee shall place the 
candidates from the various lists into one " con 
solidated seniority list " based on the total length 
of service rendered in that grade or cadre and 
make recommendations for promotion on the 
basis of this " consolidated list" . The inter-se 
senority of the candidates in their respective 
lists will not be disturbed in the " consolidated 
list" , 


(iv ) Such Government officere and employees as are 

selected in direct competition through open adver 
tisement but are appointed on forcign service terms 
shall be deemed to be direct recruits for the pur 
pose of determinalion of their seniority in the 
Commission. 


C . Relative Seniority of Direct Recruits and 

Promotees ; 


Departmental 


Seniority of such persons once detormined , shal 
not he affected hy their retirement from the 
parent- office , if they continue in the Commission s 
employment beyond such retirement, 


( 1) When the vacancies on any one occasion are reserv 

ed for departmental promotion and direct recruit 
ment, names of the promotees shall be released 
first and they shall be promoted accordingly. The 
names of the direct recruits shall be released there 
after and appointments made, subsequently . In case 
the Departmental Promotion Committee panel is 
not available , the Vacancies for direct recruitment 
will not be filled on regular basis , instead , offi 
ciating arrangements shall be made. 


( v ) Gove,nitnt pensioners and retrenched employees , 

who are intially re-employed in the Commission 
after their retirement or retrenchment, shall also 
be treated as direct recruits for the purposes of 
determination of seniority . 


B . Departmental Promovees . 


( ii ) Amongst the departmental promotees and direct 

recruits so appointed on any single occasion the 
departmental promotees shall be treated as senior 
enbloc to the direct recruits . 


(i) The inter- sc -seniority of departmental candidates 

selected for promotion on any single occasion shall 
be determined in the order of their selection ag 
recommended by the Departmental Promotions 
Committee . 


D . Ad-hoc Appointmenis : 


( ii ) Where persons promoted initially on probation are 

confirmed subsequently in an order different from 
the order of merit decided at the time of their 
promotion , seniority shall follow the order of con 
firmation and not the original order of merit. 


Persons appointed or promoted to a grade on an ad -hoc 
basis shall be replaced by candidates approved for regular 
appointment or promotion as soon as possible . In the event 
of regularisation of their aprointment, they shall take their 
place in the seniority list with reference to their regular selec 
tion or promotion . 


E . Contingent Employees : 


In casos where the period of probation of an 
employce is extended on account of a vigilance or 
disciplinary case pending against him and the cm 
ployee is subsequently cxonerated , his probalion 
will be regulated from the date on which it would 
have otherwise been regularised but for the pen 
dency of the vigilance or disciplinary case . 


In the case of employees, who are recruited initially on 
contingent basis , and are brought to the regular establishment 
of the Commission later, the seniority shall be fixed with 
reference to the date of their regularisation and order of 
selection determined at the time of regularisation . Where , 
however, the order of merit is not so determined , the inter 
se-seniority of the candidates, brought on to the regular 
establishment on the same date , will be decided on the basis 


( iii ) Where promotions to a grade are made either 

from more thun odc grade, or from the same grade 


PART III - SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1397 ) 2149 

- - = = - - 

- = - = - = 
of the date of their continuous employment on contingent 

( ii ) Such employees will relain their lien and seniority 
basis prior to such regularisation . If the date of employment 

in the parent cadre , and will have no right for 
on contingent basis is also the same, thc candidato older in 

Absorption in the cadres to which they are trans 
age shall be deemed to be senior . 

forred temporarily . 


F . Deputationists : 


Seniority of a Goveinment servant, whose services are 
obtained by the Commission on deputation forms is not re 
quired to be determincd vis -a -vis the employees of the Com 
mission , 


( iii ) If, as a very special case , they are to be consi 

dered for absorption in the cadree to which they are 
temporarily transferred their seniority will count 
only from the date of their transfer to the cadre 
in which they are actually working ( at the time 
their absorption is considered ) so as not to preju 
dice the rights and seniority of the personnel al 
lcady recruited or promoted to thcsc cadres ; even 
those recruited and promoted to those cadies on 
the day the personnel from other cadres are trans 
ferred will all rank senior to the personnol trans 
ferred from the other cadres. 


In the event of the eventual absorption of an officer on 
deputation , on term .nation of his licn in his parent depart 
mont by retirement, resignation or otherwise , his seniority 
vis-a - vis Commission s employees will be fixed from the date 
of eventual absorption in the Commission . 


G . Seniority of decentralised Cadres. 


(a ) The seniority in respect of decentralised cadres will 

be maintained regionwise , and in respect of former 
Class IV staff , office -wise . 


ANNEXURE III 


(b ) In the event of transfer of an employee belonging 

to decentralised cadres , in the interest of the Com 
inission , from one office to the other, or from ont 
region to the other legion , the seniority of the 
cmployee will be retained in his original regions, 
and the employec will be considered for promo 
tion in his turn , in his parent region , 


(Regulation 21) 


MODEL TERMS OF FOREIGN SERVICE FOR THE 
OFFICERS SENT ON DEPUTATION OUTSIDE THE 

COMMISSION 


( c ) When such an employee is due for promotion , to 

the next higher post, in his parent region , he will 
be posted back to that region . In case, on account 
of exigencies of work , it is not possible to post 
the employee hack to the region of his original 
posting, the employee will be given proforma pro 
motion , if he is approved for promotion and the 
candidate next below him in the region will be pro 
moted to fill that vacancy ; 


( 1 ) Period of Deputation : 


The period of deputation will ordinarily be two years but 
it may be extended , with the concurrence of the foreign 
service employer upto a maximum period of five years . The 
period of deputation will begin from the date of banding 
over charge of the post in the Commission and end on the 
date of takingover charge to the post in Commission after 
ieversion from foreign acrvice. The deputation may, how 
ever, be terminated by giving one months notice either by 
the Commission or by the foreign employer. 


( d ) Where the Commission decides that the employee 

concerned should go back to his parent region on 
promotion , and he refuses to do so , proforma pro 
motion will not be given to him . 


( e ) In case , an employee belonging to a decentralised 

cadrc, is transferred at his own request, from one 
region to another , his name will be struck off and 
he will be placed at the bottom in the seniority list 
of the region to which he is transferred . 


At thc end of the deputation period , the officer will have 
to decido either to reveit back to the Commission or to get 
absorbed in the borrowing organisation or Department of 
Government. 


H . Fixation of seniority on absorption of employees from one 

cadre to another : 


be all or in der the mployee 


The following criteria shall be taken into account in fix 
ing senjority of employees absorbed in a cadre other than 
the one to which they belong : 


If a permanent employee of the Commission is selected 
for a post under the Government ( including a State Goven 
ment ) or in any other Public Sector Undertaking , he may 
be allowed to retain his lien for a maximum period of two 
years . gubject to the condition thrt during the period for 
which he retains bis lien in the Commission his pay in the 
new organisation would not be more than what he would 
have drawn in the Commission plus the usual deputation al 
lowance . Also , the new employer of the employee himself 
agrees to pay contributions towards the leave salary. pen 
sion , gratuity and provident funds of the employce, to the 
Commission , 


(i) The Commission will be free to transfer employees 

from onc cadre to another temporarily on admi 
nistrative grounds, e.g . transfer of work , non -avail 
ability of suitable men . 


2150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC . 4 


( 2 ) Pay : 


Contributions towards Leave Salary , Pension Gratuity 
and Provident Fund should be recovered from the borrow 
ing organisation or Government at appropriate rates , 


Leave 


(8 ) Children s Education Allowance or Assistance , 

Travel Concession and Medical Facilities : 


During the period of deputation, the officer , will have 
the option either to draw pay in the scale of the post to 
which he is transferred or apopinted or to draw pay of the 
post held by him in the Commission plus a deputation (dụty ) 
allowance in accordance with and subject to tho conditions 
of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance O . M . No. 
10 ( 24 ) / E - III /60 dated 4th May, 1961 as modified from 
time to time and such other general or special orders isguc 
by the Government of India under para 1 (ill ) of that Office 
Memorandum . If an employce goes to another organisation 
in an equivalont post , no deputation (duty ) allowance will 
be allowed . 


The officer will be entitled to these concessions or facilities 
on the scale admissible under , the rules of the borrowing 
organisation or Government or the Commission as may bo 
opted by him and the cost of such concession or facilities 
should be borne by the borrowing organisation or Govern 
ment. 


( 3 ) Dearness Allowunce : 


(9 ) Extra -Ordinary Pension or Gratulty or Compensation : 


The officer will be entitled to dearness allowance under 
the rules of the Commission or under the rules of the bor 
rowing organisation or Government according as he retains 
his scale of pay under the Commission or he draws pay in 
the scale attached to the deputation post . 


The borrowing organisation or Government will be re 
ponsible for the payment of extra- ordinary pension or Gra 
tuity or Compensation that may be admissible under the 
rules of the Commission or any other statutory Actor 
Rules (o.g . Workmens Compensation Act, Employeco Stato 
Insurance Act ) if any injury is sustained or death during 
the period of deputation. 


( 4 ) Local Allowances : 


Payment of Compensatory Allowances , House Rent Allow 
ance and other local allowances should bo regulated under 
tho rules of the borrowing organisation or Government. 


( 10 ) Llability for Disability Leave : 


( 5) Joining Time Pay and Transfer Travelling Allowance : 


The borrowing organisation or Government will be liable 
to pay leave salary (including allowances ) in respect of dis 
ability leave granted to the officer on account of any dis 
ability incurred while on deputation even if such disability 
manifests itself after the termination of the deputation po 
riod , 


The officer will be entitled to Travelling Allowance and 
joining time both on joining the post on deputation and on 
1cVersion therefrom to the Commission under the rules of 
the borrowing organisation or Government , 


( 11 ) Liability for Payment of Dearness Allowance, Com . 

pensatory Allowance, House Rent Allowance and orher 
Local Allowances during the period of Leave : 


(6 ) Travelling Allowance or Conveyance Allowance for 

Journeys on Dury during deputation ; 


To be regulated under the rules of the borrowing organi 
sation or Govcinment. 


All allowances payable during the periods of leavo avail 
ed of by the officer while on deputation including the loavo 
taken at the end of foreign service shall bo paid by the 
borrowing organisation or Government. 


( 7 ) Leave or Pension or Gratuity or Provident Fund : 


( 12 ) Residential Accommodarſon : 


The officer will continuo to be governed by the Leave , 
Pension , Gratuity and Provident Fund Regulations of the 
Commission . 


The officer will pay rent for the accommodation provided , 
if any , according to the rules of tho borrowing organisation 
or Government 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2151 


Vi 


- 


- 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 


Particulars: - B -Bombay ; : C - Calcutta ; : M -Madras 

U — Cortificate for unrostricted public exhibition . 
A - Certificate for publlo oxhibition rostricted to adults 
i.e . persons who have completed 18th Years , 

- - - - - - 
Application Name of the film with Longth of tho Name of the porsons Namo of the persons Nature of 
No. language and country film in metres or Co, applying for the or Co , who have pro - certificate 
of origin and no , roels, certificate with address , duced the film with granted 

addross 

and date 
of corti 
foato issuod 
or data on 
which 
was 
rofusod 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the 

week ending 9th February, 1974 


(1) 


P . E . 


B /71181 


" Haryana at Asia -72" 
(Hin .) ( Col.)(35mm .) 


337 41 


- 


(2 ) 


M /s Shyam Benegal, 
Sahyadri Films, 
Jyoti Studios , Ken 
nedy Bridgo , Bom 
bay- 7. 


U 
M / Shyam Bengal, 74310 
Sahyadri Film - 
Jyoti Studios Ken 4 - 2 - 74 
nedy Bridge , Bom 
bay- 7 


B / 70833 


" Baghi Quwal” (Hin .) 
(Col.)(35mm .) 


74311 


606 .00 (2) Parvinkumar, Rajas - S . Mehboob , Rajastan 

tan Guest House , Guest Houso, S . V . - -- 
V . R . Rd ., Old Khar, Rd ., Khar , Bom 
Bombay -52 

bay -52 . 


4 - 2 - 74 


B /71203 


U 
74312 


“ Twice As Good " 
(Eng.)(Col.)(35mm .) 


30 .48(1) 


M /s Film 5 , Jyoti M /s Film 5, Jyoti 
Studio , Kennedy Studio , Kennedy - - 
Bridge Bombay - 7. Bridge , Bombay- 7 . 


4 - 2 - 74 
U 
74313 P . E . 


B /71161 


“ Vision USA - 18 " 
( Eng.)( Col.) 16mm .) 


245 -36 (1) United States Infor- Thomas Craven , 

mation Service . 4 , 
Now Marinc Lines, 
Bombay - 20 . 


4 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71132 


267 .00 (1 ) 


- do 


- do 


74314 


P . E . 


" Vision USA - 17 " 
(Eng.) (Col./ 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


4 - 2 -74 


U 


B /70673 


1 . 


1 


- 2 . 89m . 


" Chaudhary Harphul 3631 .07(14 ) Kamboj, Films, Nav - Ranjeet Choudhary, 74315 With trianglo mark . 
Singh (Jat Julani 

joovan Society , Hardam Choudhary. -- - - 
Wala ) (Haryanvi) Lamington Rd., 

5 - 2- 74 
( B / W ) (35mm ) 

Bombay-4 . 
Endorsement : 

Original Longth : 3712 - 64m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. 11 : Delete the symbolic shot of Okhalı and kiss betwoon the mother and father of Harphul Singh . 
2 . VI : (a ) Delete the portion of the first shot where Harphul is scen lying in the field with his girl friend — 3 :73m . 

(6 ) In the scene of Harphul fighting two brothers,reduce the fight, deleting hard hitting shots and reducid , 

fights with farm implements and strangulations — 10 . 06m . ( Length retained ; 44 . 80 m .) 
(c ) Reduce the shot of dying expression on Harphul s brother s face and thc tilt down where blood is seen 

pouring out of the wound . Also deleto vomitting of blood by the same brother . - 19 - 20m . 
3. VII : Reduce the impact of violence in the scene of killing of brother- in - law falling to the ground. Delete the 

killing of three police constablos, keeping only tho oxchange of fire for the continulty of story - - 14 . 02m . 

(Length rotalned : 1 - 22m .) 
IX : Reduce tho fight between Mittukhan and Harphul. singh . — 4 .83m . (Longth retained : 20 - 47m .) 

: [o tho sequence of cow -slaughter , delote both the shots of weapons boing raised at the cows and killing of 

butchors by Harphul– .6 . 70m . 
XI : Reduce the impact of killing by deloting shots of police officer falling down after he has beon hit by a 
bullet . - -135m . 

(Doleted completely ) 
XIII : Reduce fight in tho jail compound by deleting violont shots — 5 .48m . (Length retained : 3 :36m .) 
XIII ; Delete the killing of police officer and Ranjoot - 5 .62m . 
XIV : Reduce shots of blood smeared back of Harphul after he is shot by police _ 7 .69m . 

( Longth retained : Nil ) (Deleted completely ). 
Length of doletions : 81 .37m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid delesions will be : 3631.07m . in 14 Reels. 


TY 


nonoci 


2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEC . 4 


- - 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


A 


(1) 


B /71119 


74316 


" Excorpts Of " Ek 
Adhuri Kahani" 
(Hin .)(35mm .) 


741 15 (3) Arun Kaul, 27 -Western Arun Kaul, 27 -Western 

Indja House, S . P . M . India House, Fort - 
Road, Fort Bombay -1 . Bombay -1 . 


5 - 2 - 74 


B /71255 


74317 


" Trailer of Hindustan 
Ki Kasam " (Hin .) 
(Col.)(35mm .) 


60 - 00 ( 1 ) Snoh Films, 242- Spon Films, 242 

Famous Cino Bldg ., Famous Cine Bldg., 
Bombay -11. 

Bombay - 11. 


5 - 2 -74 
U 
74318 


B /71215 


" Haryana Samachar 
Darshan No. 12 " 
(Hin .) (35mm .) 


273 10 (1) R . P . Kosri, Deputy Shri Ashok Pahwa , 

Director , Pub. Relu - Dir , of Pub . Relation , - - 
tion , Haryana . 


6 - 2 - 74 


B / 71252 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1321" (35mm .) 


207 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division, Bom 

of India , 24 - Peddar bay- 26 . 
Road , Bombay- 26 . 


74319 ( Valid for Eng., Hin . 

Mar ., Guj., Tam , 
6 - 2- 74 Tel., Kan ., Mal. 

Agsm ., Oriya , Pun ., 
Ben , Kash ., Urdu 
& Sindhi. 


B /71113 


Not PE . 


" Recorded In Hoochst" 
( Eng.) (Col.) ( 16mm ) 
( W . G .) 


310 00 (1) Hoechst Pharmaceuti- Farbwerke Hoechst AG . 

cal Ltd ., Backbay 
Reclamation , B bay - 20 


74320 
6 - 2- 74 


B /71112 


247. 00 (1) 


- do 


- do 


74321 Not PE . 


“ The Years Decision " 

(Eng .) (Col.)( 16mm .) 
(AG .) (W .G .) 


6 - 2 - 74 

U 
74322 Not PE. 


B / 71208 


" The Vintago " (Aus 
tralian Colour Diary 
No . 40 ) (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm .)(Australia ) 


75 .00 (1) Australian High Com - Australian Common 

mission , Now Delhi-21 wealth Film Unit. 


7 - 2 -74 


B /71207 


U 
74323 


255 . 00 (1) 


-do 


-do 


PE 


" Introducing Austra 
lian Football " (Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 16min .) 
(Australia ). 


7 -2 -74 


B / 71205 


122 -00 ( 1) 


U 
74324 Not PE . 


-do 


- do 


“ Tacrodiblo Floridas " 
(Eng .) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(Australia ) 


7 - 2 -74 


U 


B /71163 


74325 


PE . 


" Spot Prevention " 

Meaglog ) (Eng .) 
(Col.)(16mm .)(USA ) 


152 .40 ( 1 ) National Edu . of In - National Medical 

formation Film Ltd . Audio - visual Contre . 


7 - 2 - 74 
U 
74326 PE 


B /71168 


213 -36 (1) 


-do 


do . 


" Management of the 
Leprosy Patient " 
(Eng .) (Col.)(16mm .) 


7 -2 -74 


U 


B /71170 


182 . 88 (1 ) 


- do 


U .S. Navy 


74327 PE 


“ Crane Operations : 
Floating Cranos " 
(Eng.) (16mm .)(USA ) 


7 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71228 


74328 PE 


" Influonza Virus Iso 
lation " (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16mm .)(USA ) 


60 .96 ( 1) National Education National Medical 

of Information Films Audio Visual Contro. - 
Ltd ., National 
House , Tullach 
Road, Bombay - 1. 


7 - 2 - 74 


U 
74329 


B /71206 


PE . 


" Irrigation : The Ord 
River Schome and 
M . I. A . (Eng.) (Col.) 
( 16mm .)(Australia ) 


184 . 00 ( 1) Australian High Australian Common 

Commission , Now wealth Film Unit. 
Delhi-21. 


7- 2 -74 


B / 71251 


74330 PE 


“ Baba Sheikh Farid " 
(Eng.)(35mm .) 


461 .77 (1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Bom . 

of India , 24 -Peddar bay - 26 . 
Road, Bombay- 26 . 


7 -2 -74 
U 
74331 


B /71245 


" Tr , of Quaidi No . 
911" (Hin .)(35mm .) 


67 .06 ( 1 ) Asian Film Corpora - Super Pictures, Manok 

tion Alankar Cinema Chambers , Laming 
Bldg., Bombay -4 . ton Rd., Bombay-4 . 


7 - 2 - 74 


1 


B /71229 


1330 - 15 (3 ) 


74332 PE . 


" Introduction To 
Analoguo Computer 
Part I, II & III” 
( Eng.) ( Col.)(16mm .) 
(USA ) 


National Edu , & In - U .S . Atomic Energy 

formation Films Commission . 
Ltd ,, National Houso , 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
bay - 1 . 


7- 2 - 74 


PART III _ SEC. 4 ] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2153 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


(1) 


( 2 ) 


(6 ) 


U 


B /70800 


"My Friend " (Hindi) 3934 -36 (15) Poonam Pictures , Mr. Poonambhal Shah 74333 With triangle mask . 
(Colour) (35ınm .) 

Pvt., Ltd ., 144 , Dr. Mr. Narayanbhai J. - 
D . N . Rd., Bombay- 1 . Patel 

8 - 2 - 74 
Endorsement.: 

Original Length : 3934 -36m . 
Cur. No . Reel No . 
1. IV : Delete the underlined words from the following sentence said by Premanand to the girl: 

" Morc Prom -khang mon ayee , app ko kis par bittavo " , 

(Deleted sound ) (Replaced with apprcvcd veids ) 
2 . VII : In the cabret sequonce, delete the view of a man placing his hand on tho baro thigh of Julie - 1 . 22m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 .22m .) 
The length of the film remajdg unchanged . 1.c . 3934 - 36m . in 15 reels . 


U 


B /71186 


74334 


Not PE . 


Pahola Woh Ghar 
Khuda Ka " (Urdu ) 
(Col.)(35mm .) 


281 94 (1 ) Şundeer, 5 - 1 Naaz Sundeep , 5 - 1 Naaz 

Cinema Bldg ., Bom - Cinema Bldg., Bom - — 
bay.4 

bay- 4 . 


8 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71268 


1828 . 80 (6 ) 


" Flame of Persia " 
(Eng .) (Col.)( 35mm .) 


IMP Consulate Gone- Ministry of Art & 
ral of Iran , Bombay . Calture of Iran 


74335 


8 -2 - 74 


B / 70798 


" Aangse Ang Lagale " 3799 . 75 (14 ) Shlvkumar Produc- Shivkumar. 

3215 With triangle mark . 
(Hin . ( Col.)(35mm .) 

tions , 8 -Rawal Cham 
bers, Parel, Bom 

5 -2 - 74 
bay - 12 . 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3828 -30m . 
Cut Reel 
No No. 
1. V ; Reduce the scene in which the mother whips Rajesh with a belt . — 0 . 98m . 

(Length retained : 12 . 19m .) 
2 . IX : Delete the shot in which Salomi kisses Surjit on the cheek . - 0 . 26m , 

(Replaced with approvod shots : 0 - 26m .) 
3. IX (1) Redeuce the scene in which Rajesh moves his lips over Salomi s right hand and Surjit movos his lips 

on her left hand . - 3 . 83m . 
(Longth retained : 3 . 43m .) 

(ii ) Delete the following dialoguo : " The strangont kiad of orgy. " 2 .80jn . 
4 . X : Delete the last shot in which Nocla whllo lying with Rajesh on the cot turns over towards him revealing 

her bare back - 396m . 
XIV : Reduce the scene of operation on Rajosh deleting close - ups of his blood -smeared face and /or the profile 

1748m , 
Length of deletions : 28 - 81m . 
Length of approved replacement : 0 . 26m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3799 .75m , in 14 reels . 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 
B /71218 -19 
Film : “ Breakthrough " (Eng .) 
U -Cert. No, 74191 of 11 -1 -1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Marathiand Gujarati versions of the film . The longth of the Glm remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th February , 1974 . 
B / 71219 
Film : “ Doctor in the House" (Hindi) 
U -Cert, No. 64408 of 6 - 11 - 1971 . 

This certificato is also valid for Tainil version of tho film in colour . Tho longth of the film remains unchanged , 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th February , 1974 . 
B /71012 
Film : “ Akbar " (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No . 51624 of 22 -8 - 1967 . 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film in colour. The length of the film romains unchanged . 

This cartificato was ondorsed on 7th February , 1974 . 
B / 71014 
Film : “ Ahmad Jaan Thirakwa" (Hindi) ( 35mm .) 
U -Cort. No. 64038 of 9 -9 -1971. 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged , 
This cartificate was endorsed on 7th Fobruary , 1974 , 


2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III Sec . 4 
- - - - - - - - -- - - - 

www mar (5) ----- - com o 


- --- (1) 


B /71012 
Film : " Transcendence " (Eng ) (35mm .) 
U -Cert. No, 70343 of 19 - 7- 1972 . 

This certificate is also valid for French version of the filin . The length of the film remains unchangod . 

This certificate was endorsed on 7th February , 1974 . 
B /63891 
Film : " Stoel A Whole Now Way of Life " (Eng.)( Col.) 
U -Cort. No, 64136 of 22 -9 - 1971 
Deloted various shots : 21-80m . 
Actual length of tho Alm after the aforesaid dolotions will be 547 . 57m . 

This cortificate was endorsed on 8th February , 1974 . 
B /70980 
Flim : " Indian News Revlow No . 1314 " ( Southern Edition). 
U -Cert. No. 74094 of 19 - 12 - 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 204 . 53m . 
Added various shots : 203 53m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterationswill be : 295 . 00m . 
This certificate wis endorsed on 8th February, 1974 . 

Week ending 9th February, 1974 . 
Sharmila ( Bengali ) 3520 .44 (14 ) Cino Koality 57. Cine Koality 57, 73372 
Lenin Sarani, Cal- 13 Lenin Sarani, Cal-13. 

6 - 2 -74 

U 
Natun Pagal-Natun 609 -60 ( 20 ) Look Publicity 

Director of Agriculture 73373 
Asha (Bengali (Col.) 

Govt. of W . Bengal 

7 - 2 - 74 
Woek Ending Saturday 22 -2 -74 

U 
Kaliyuga Kankanda 600 .00 (2 ) Shri S . Durga Rao , Shri S , Durga Rao , 67411 
Deivam ( Tamil) 

Madras . 

Madras, 
35mm . B & W . India 

5 -2 -74 


C /7965 


C - 7968 


M /8411 


U 


M /8351 


Aada Pillalu Ardha 3714 - 28 ( 14 ) Sridhar Kalamandir , Dr. M . V . Gopala Rao , 67412 Wità cuts , 
Ratri Hatyalu 

Madraz . 

Madras , 
( Tolugu )35mm . B & W 

5 -2 - 74 
Endorsement on cort , No. 67412 - U dt. 5 - 2 - 74 issued to the film Aada Pillalu Ardha Ratri Hatyalu ( Telugu ) . 
Length applied . 3714 -27 Metres. 
Cuts : 

Mts , 
Reel 4 _ Song 1 - Delete song-text in full. (Replaced with approved song -text-Sound only ) 
Actual length of the film remains same, namely 3714 . 28 Mts, in 14 Reels 

U 
Sree Krishna Leelai 304 - 80 (1) Anand Arts , Madras. Shri R . Narasimha Rao 67413 
( Tamil) 35mm , B & W 

Madras 
India 

5 - 2 - 74 


M /8420 


U 


M /8432 


Urvashi (Kannada) 
35mm . B & W India 


3809 -38 (15) 


Kalpataru 
Bangalore 


Films, Kalpataru 

Bangalore 


Films, 


67414 


6 - 2 - 74 
U 
67415 


M /8439 


415 .00 ( 2 ) Bharani 

Муздге 


Chitra , Shri M . P , Shantar , 

Mysore 


6 - 2 - 74 


Gandadha Gudi 
100th Day Colobra 
ilon (Kannada ) 
35mm . B & W . India , 
Mister Sundari 
(Re- revised ) (Mala 
yalam ) 35mm . B & W 
India 


M /8401 


67416 


3038 -55 ( 14 ) Reeta 

Madras 


Enterprises , Smt. T . Komalam , 

Madras 


7 - 2 - 74 


U 


M /8433 


Dhruva Vljayam 4070 . 90 ( 14 ) Mukunda Movics , Mukunda Movies , 67417 With cuts . 
( Tolugu ) 35mm .B & W 

Madras Madras, 

8 - 2 - 74 
Endorsement on cert. No 67417 U dt. 8th February 1974 issued to film Dhruva Vijayam (Telugu ) 35mm , B & W , 
Longth applied — 4071 .81 Mts. 
Cuts 
1 . Reel 6 - Delete the shot of tho snake actually biting Uttam . 

0 .91 
2 . Reel 10 - Delete the old man describing Narada Maharishi aq " Kothala Rayudu " 
( Sound only -- replaced approved words) 

Total 

0 . 91 


Actual length is 4070 - 90 Mts, in 14 Reels. 


2155 

- - - 


- - - - 


PART IIT - SEC. 41THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
= - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

- -- - - - - 
Week Ending 16th Februay 1975 
- (1 - (2) 

03) - - ---- ( ) - - 

- - 


0 _ -- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


B /68693 


74336 


P . E . 


" The Cross in The 
Lotus " ( Eng.) (Col.) 
(16ınm .) 


254 - 20 ) AMA Pv .. Lid ., Con - Caravs Jabalpu . 
( 3 ) ada Bldg., Dr. D . N . 

Roarl , Bombay- 1. 


11 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71159 


" Ono For All, All For 

Ono " (Eng.) (16mm .) 


220 . 00 ( 2 ) 


74337 P . E . 


Films Division , Govt 

of India , 24 -Peddief 
Road, Bombay- 26 . 


Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Pedder 
Rond , Bonbay - 26 . 


11- 2 - 74 


B /70945 


" Stop-Look & Listen " 
(Eng.) (Col ) (35mm . ) 


Bega , 


74338 P . E 


73 . 16 ( 1) Mr. Sohrab Boga , Mr. Sohrab 

Nishaan Motion Pics, Bombay - 26 . 
tures , Vasant Vihars 
Carmichael Road , 
Bombay-400026 . 


11 - 2 - 74 


B / 71171 


74339 


mund 


P . E . 


Help Us to Help 
You " ( Eng.) (32mm .) 


kete 


- 


- - - 


495 . 43( 2 ) The Dir . General of The Dir. General of 

Information & Pub - Information Pub 
lic Relations. Govt. lic Relations, Govt . 
of Maharashtra . of Maharashtra 


11 - 2 - 7 


U 
74340 


B / 71253 


P . E . 


" New Ryhthms In 
Nagaland " (Eng .) 
(35mm .) 


1319 .00) 

( 5 ) 


Films Division , Goyt. Films Division , Bombay 

of India , 24 - Peddar 26 . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


11-2 -74 


B /71267 


774 . 00 ( 3) 


" Nagaland Revisited " 

(Eng.) (35 mm ) 


Do , 


Do. 


74341 


P . E . 


11- 2 -74 

U 
74342 Not P . E . 


A /69865 


" Rubens" 
( 16mm .) 


(Eng.) 


700 -00 (2 ) Consulate General of Henri Storck of Paul 

Belgium 11- Carmichael Haesacrts . 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


12- 2 -77 


2 / 71809 


74343 


" Uttar Pradesh Ke 
Barthe (Hindi) 
(35mm .) (Kadam 


30 .48 ( 1) Rashtriya Jan Jagriti, Rashtriya Jan Jagriti, 

Panished , 2833 / 5 - New Delhi-110655 . 
Bhagat Singh , Sarcot 
Raj Guru Road , 
New Delhi- 110655 


12 - 2 -74 


U 
74344 


B /71308 


" Jaan Leo Sab Sachai 
(Hin ) ( 35 mm ) 


30 . 48 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


12 -2 - 74 – 


B /70110 


" God s Love In Action 294 . 13( 1 ) S . S . Rao, C - 20 , 1st S . S . Rao , C - 20 , 1st 74345 With triangle mark . 
(Engl.) (Col.) 

floor Royal Optical floor Optical Indu 
(35mm .) 

Industrial Estate, strial Estate, Naig 13 - 2 - 74 
Nuigdon Cross Rd ., gaon Cross Rd ., 
Bombay-31 

Bombay- 31. 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 297 . 79 m . 
Delete the closeup of mutilated face of a patient which is being cleaned by a nun, keeping only a flash of If for tho 

sake of continuity . – 3 .66 m . 
Length of the deletions : 3 .66n . 
Actual length of the filn after the aforesaid deletions will be : 294 .13 m . 


8 /71293 


" Uttar Pradesh Sama 
chac- 21 " (Hindi) 
(35mm .) (Lacknow ) 


273 . 10 ( 1) Dhirendra Pande , Co The Dir, of Information 74346 

Bombay Film Labora . Govt. of UP. 
tory PVT. Ltd . 

13- 2 74 
Dadar, Bombay- 28 . 

U 
233 .00 (1) Liaison Officer , Govt. Dir . of Information 74347 
of Gujarat . Govt. of Gujarat - - 

13 - 2 - 74 


B / 71294 


“ Mahitichitra No. 179 

(Guj. sæti) (35mm .) 


B /71306 


74348 


" Indian Nows Review 
No. 1322 ( 32mm .) 


171 .00 ( 1 ) Films Divison , Govt. Films Division , 

of India , 24 - Poddar Bombay - 26 . 
Road, Bombay- 26 . 


13-2 - 74 


( Valid for Eng., 
Hindi, Tam ., Tel., 
Kan ., Mal., Ass., 
Oriya ., Pun ,, Beng.. 
Kash & Urdu ., 
Version , 


U 


B / 71307 


265 . 00 (1) 


Do, 


Do. 


" I. N . R . No , 1322 " 
(Western (Edition ) 
(35mm .) 


74349 Valid for Eng., 

Hin ., Mar ., Guj. 
13 - 2 - 74 Sindhi vorsion ) 


B /71284 


74350 


P . E . 


" Naica Pleaca La 
Bucurosti " (Romanian 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


564 .00( 2 ) National Education Romania Films. 

and Information 
Films Ltd ., National 
House , Tulloch Roud 
Bombay - 1 . 


41- 2 -74 


3 — 36961/75 


2156 


(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III — Sec . 4 

G - I - C - -- -- - - - 
(3) ( 4 ) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B /71286 


Romania Films, 


74351 


P . F . 


" Stircul Pagare Rep 
tila " (Romanian ) 
(Col.) (35mm ) 


387 . 001) National Education & 

Information & Films 
Ltd ., National Houso , 
Tulloch Road 
Bombay - 1 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


B /71280 


12192(1) 


Do. 


U 
74352 


General Electric Edu - 
cational Films, 


" How a Boiling Water 
Reactor Operatos " 
(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


14 - 2-74 


B /71281 


121 .92(1) 


U 
74353 


P . E . 


" Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics, II Rela 
ting Sets To Num 
bers " (Eng.) (Col.) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


14 - 2- 74 


B /71282 


121-92(1) 


74334 


P . E . 


“ Pathways to Modern 
Mathematics, I Thin 
king . In sets " (Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 13mm .) (USA ) 


14 - 2- 74 

U 
77355 


B /71286 


121 . 92 (1 ) 


P , E . 


" Com putors at Work " 
( Eng.) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


14- 2 - 74 


B /71287 


121 . 92 (1 ) 


74356 


P .E . 


" Magnetism at Work " 
(Eng .) (Col.) (16mm . 
(USA ) 


14 - 2 - 74 

U 
74357 


B /71283 


100 . 68 (1 ) 


Do. 


P . E . 


" Youe and the Com 
puter " ( Eng.) (Col.) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


142- 74 


B /71115 


U 
74358 Not P . E , 


“ Glimpsos of India" 
(Northern Roglon ) 
(Music Efficts Only ) 
(Col.) (No Commen 
tary) (35mm .) 


344 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , 

of India , 24 -Peddar Bombay- 26 . 
Road, Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 2 -74 


B /70397 


" Apka Sahayak " (Hin . 
( Col.) (35mm .) 


U 
74359 


74359 


30 .48 (1) S. S . Oberoi, M /s Art Mr. S. S. Oberol. 

Commercia , Manek 
Chambers, 299 - A . 
Lamingtion Road , 
Bombay- 4 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


B / 71258 


30 .00 (1 ) 


KALP . 


U 
74360 


" Pura Pani Bharpur 
Munafa " (Mar.) 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


KALP , 
Samrudhi 
Society , 
Shankar 
Dadar-28 . 


B - 1, B - 2 
Housing 
Bhayant 

Road , 


14 - 2 -74 


B /71217 


29 . 87 (7 ) 


U 
74361 


Do. 


" The Tell Tale Bite " 
(Eng.) (Col) (35mm .) 


Do . 


14 - 2 - 74 


B 1266 


B /71266 


" Thc Monaco " (Eng .) 
(Col.) ( 35mm .) 


Marines(Eng) 


30-40) 


30 . 48 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


74362 


14 - 2 - 74 


B /71254 


" Subha Ka Bhula " 
(Hlo . (35mm .) 


M . W . Muadam 


U 
74363 


30 -48 ( 1) Movie , Centro 12- 

Deepali Off Pery 
Road, Bandra , 
Bombay -50 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


B / 71247 


U 
74264 


" Ankheon 
Nlamat " 
(35 mm .) 


Hazar 
(Hindi) 


30 .48 ( 1) R . P . Nagar, Pallani R . P . Nagar, Pallani 

Films, 28 /210 Gopal Films, 28/ 210 Gopal - 
Pura , Agra - 2 . 

Pura , Agra -2 . 


14 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71248 


91 .5 (1) 


Do. 


" Sathi Kisan Ka " 
( Hindi) (35 mm .) 


Do , 


74365 


14- 2 - 74 


S 


- 


PART fff - Sec . 4 } THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2157 


= 


= 


- - - - - = 


1 


2 


U 


B /71196 


Sharma, 


74366 


" Sandalwood Nycil " 
(Col.) (35 mm .) 


30 .00 ( 1) Kamla Sharma, Wide- Kamala 

screen 4 -Shirin , Bombay - 5 . 
Colaba , Bombay -5 . 


14 -2 - 74 


( Valid for Hin , 

Beng., Tam ., Telu ,, 
Kan . & Mal. 
Versions) . 


B /66849 


" Transforinations " 

(Eng.) (Col.) ( 16 mm .) 
( FRG .) 


316 - 39 (1) Conxualto General Cinoccutrin Hamburg . 

of Federal Republic 
of Germany, Bombay . 


74367 

- 
14 - 2 - 74 


P . E . with triangle 
mark . 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 317 .00 m . 

Delete the shot in which a boy standsoude at the swimming pool before he dives into the water.-- - 0,61 m , 
Length of deletions : 0 .61 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 316 - 39 m . 


U 


B /71313 


74368 


" Work Study & Peo - 
ple " (Eog.) (Col.) 
( 16 mm .) ( Ú ,K .) 


344 :42(1) The Principal Rly. Vuloan World Wide 
Staff 

Colloge , Pictures . 
Bombay 4 , 


CP. E . 


15 - 2 -74 

U 
74369 


B/71246 


" Tr, of Ang $ e Ang 
Lagale " (Hin .) (Col.) 
(35 mm .) 


85 .21(1 ) Film Effocts, 117 - Shiv Kumar Produc- 

Famous Cine Studios , tions, 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay 
11 . 


With trlungle mark , 


16 - 2 - 74 


Endorsenient : 

Original length : 88 -39 m . 

1. Delete shots of suggestive kissings — 2 . 17 m . 
2 . Delete the flash of an emphasised bosom of a woman . - 0 .54 m . 
3 . Delete the superimposed title " Sex and Love " : - 0 . 91 m . 

(Roplaced with approved title = 0 .91 m .) 
4 . Delete the shot of a boy throwing & girl on thọ bed . — 0 .47 m . 
Length of deletions : 4 .09 m . 
Length of replacement : 0 . 91 m . 
Actual length of the filni after the aforesaid alterations will be : 85 . 21 m . 


B / 71351 


74370 


" Narangi Inquilab " 
(Hindi) (Col.) ( 35 mm .) 


29 .87 (1) Trio Films, Jyoti Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studios, Kennedy Studios , Kennedy - 
Bridge, Bombay- 7 . Bridge , Bombay - 7, 


16 - 2 -74 
U 
74371 


B /71312 


Fur 


" The Turbulout Pouco " 

(Eng.) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(FRG .) 


- - - 


- PE 


414 .00( 1) Congulato Goneral of Gesellschaft 

| tho Fedoral Republic Bildende Film. 
of Germany, Ramon 
House, Bombay- 20 . 


16 - 2 -74 


B /69567 


" Bharat Teerth " ( Eng . 

( Col.) (35mm .) 


ug 


74372 


310 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - _ 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road, Bombay - 26 . 


Not P . E . 


16 - 2 - 74 


B / 71202 


250 - 11 (1 ) 


Tractel S , A , 


P 


“ Applications of 

Tractel Tifor T - 13 
and T - 35 " (Eng.) 
( 16mm .) (France ) 


74373 
.. . 
16 - 2 - 74 


. 


Tractel Tirfor India 
Pyt. Lid ., B / 56 , 
Greater Kailash , Part 
Il New Delhi.-48 . 


U 
74374 


B /71133 


Robert Foster . 


" Scionce Report 146 

B " ( Eng .) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


143 - 26 ( 1 ) United States Infor- 

mation Service , 4 
New Marino Lines , 
Bombay- 20 . 


16 - 2- 74 


U 


B /71318 


74375 


" Ewald Mataro " (Eng.) 
(16mm .) (FRG .) 


P . E . 


376 00 ( 1 ) Consulate General of Westdeutscher Rund 

the Federal Republic funk koln . 
of Germany, Ramon 
House, Bombay - 20 . 


16 - 2 -74 


U 


B / 11317 


" People of The Saar " 
(Eng .) (16mm .) (FRG .) 


256 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Audax Films 
(SAARLAND ) 


74376 

- - P .L . 
16 - 2 -74 


2158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART 111 -- SEC , 4 
- - = - - - - - - 

. - - - - - 

- ---- - - - - - - - = = - - -- - - = = - - T 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 
5 


- 


6 


1 


B /71316 


238 .00 (1 ) 


" Working with Glass " 
(Eng.) ( 16mın .) (FRG ), 


Production 


74377 


Consulate General of 
the Fedral Republic Rhewes 
of Germany , Ramon GMPH . 
House , Bombay -20 . 


- 


P . E . 


16 - 2 - 74 


B /71311 


" Well of Life " ( Eng.) 299 . 92 ( 1 ) United States Informa- Tom Beemer, 

74378 
(Col.) (16mm .) (USA ) tion Service , 4 -New 

- - - PE 
Marine Lincs, 

16 - 2 - 74 
Bombay - 20 , 
Erilorsement under Rule 34 . 

B /71249 -51 
Film : " Special Help For Baby " (Hin .) (Col.) 
U - Cert. No. 74187 of 11- 1- 1974 . 
This certificale is also valid for Bengali , English and Marathi versions of the film in colour. The length of the 

film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 11th February , 1974 . 
B /71296 
Film : " Sukhi Jeevan Ka Sahi Prabhand " (Hindi) ( Col.) 
U -Cert. No. 72840 of 2- 7- 1973. 
This certificate is also valid for English , Gujarati, Punjabi, Marathi, Bengali, Oriya and Assamese versions of the 

film in colour . 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificatc was endorsed on 12th February , 1974 . 
B / 70497 
Film : " Shaitan " (Hindi) (35min .) (Col.) 
A - Cert. No . 3214 of 21 - 1- 1974 , 
Reel XII ; Deleted yarious shots : 123 · 75ın 

XIV : Deleted various shots : 54 . 25 m . 

XIV : Added various shots : 59 .74 in . 
Length of deletions : 178 .00 m . 
Length of additions : 59 . 74 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alicrutions will be : 3564 .94 m . In 14 reels , 

This certificate was endorsed on 14th February, 1974. 
B /71237 -44 
Film ; “ Take Care of Him " (Eng.) 
U -Cort. No. 74260 of 26 - 1- 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu , Kannucla and Malayalain ver 

sions of the film in colour, The Icngth of the filin remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15th February , 1974 , 
B /64850 
Film : " Changing Perspectives " 
U - Cert. No. 64905 of 30 - 12-1971 . 
Deleted end title 1970 : 3 .00 m . Added end titlo 1973: 3 :00 in . The length of the film remains unchanged ice , 

264 . 00 m . The filin is in colour and not in Black & White . This certificate was endorscd on 16th February , 

1974 . 
B /69069 
Film : " Aabadi” (Hindi) (35mm .) 
U -Cert . No. 72734 of 15-6 - 1973 . 
The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 75 . 90 m . instead of 152 . 40 m . Deleted various 

shots : 58 . 22 m . 
Added various shots : 24 .99 in , 
actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 42 .67 m . 

Week ending 16th February, 1974 . 

CALCUTTA 


U 


C / 7974 


Bangladesh Biman 
( Eng.) (Col.) (35mm .) 


73374 


45 - 72 ( 1) Sarawati Chitran Saraswati Chitram 

162 /86 , Lake Gar- 162/ 86 , Lake Gar 
dons, Calcutta , 

dens , Calcutta , 


11 - 2 - 74 


C /7975 


Baktatilak (Bongali ) 


73375 With triangle work , 


4293 . 90 ( 16 ) Trio Films 6 , 

Mall, Dum 
Cal-28 , 


The Biswajit Chatterjee , 
Dum 6 , Tho Mall , Dum - 
Dui , Cal-28 . 

- - - - 


13 - 2 -74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


PART III — Sec . 4JTHE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
— - = - = 


2159 


- 


- - = - - 


= 


- 


= - 


= 


- 


= 


- 


= 


- - 


- 


- - 


2 


Endorsament : 
Original length : 4335 . 17 metros 
1. Reel 1 : Delete the shot showing Zaminder offering money 

by themouth to the dancing girl : 1 .22 metres , 
2 . Reel 6 : (a ) Reduce to the barest minimun the scene depicting Aku Singh being dragged tied to the 

Zcop : 2 . 44 metres . 

(Length retained : 4 .88 metres) 

(b ) Delete tho torture in the Police Cell : 32 .61 meties 
Total delctions : 36 - 27 motres 
Final length aftor above deletions and reductions will be : 4298 . 90m . 
Particulars of Film Certified -- Week Ending 16 . 2.74 . 

MADRAS 


M /8361 


67418 


entre 


Matsushita Kan Expo 
70 (Colour) (Japanesc ) 
Japan (16 mm .). 


329. (18) 1) lado -National 

Madras. 


m contest 2014100)legendarios 


Ltd ., Matsushita Electric 

ladustrial Co . Ltd . , 
Osat , Japan . 


11 - 2 - 74 


M /8362 


109 . 72 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


67419 


1972 Non Matsushita 
Giyyutsuten (Colour) 
Japanese ( 16 mm .) 
Japan , 


11 - 2 -74 


U 


M /8363 


Do. 


219 .45 (1) 


219-45(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


Dainikai Matsushita 
Gijyutsuten (Colour) 
(Japaneso) (16 mm .) 
Japan . 


67420 


11 - 2 - 74 


M /8364 


164 .59(1) 


U 
67421 


Do . 


Do. 


‘Denchi No Gijyutsu 

( Japaneso ) (Colour) 
(16 min .) Japan . 


11 - 2 -74 

U 
67422 


M / 8365 


274 -32(1) 


Do . 


Time Capgulo Expo 

70 , (Colour) ( Japanese ) 
( 16 mm .) Japan . 


Do . 


11 - 2 -74 

U 
67423 


M /8369 & 


Mahukavi Kumaran 
Agan (Malayalam & 
English ) ( 35 , mm .) 
( B . & W .) ( India ). 


457 -20( 2) Uryası Film 

Trivandum , 


Society, Shriķ . Anjyan , Trivan 

drum . 


11 - 2 - 74 


M /8407 


M /8418 


M /8378 


ts . 


"Zoroin On Safety 109 .72 ( 1) Madras Fertilizers Ltd ., National Safety Coun 67424 
( English ) ( Colour) 

Madras . 

cil, Chicago , U .S .A . - 
(16 mm .) ( U . S . A .) . 

11 - 2 - 74 

U 
The Elegant Idlor 194 . 76 (1) Malaysian High Com - Filum Negara, Malaysia . 67425 
(English ) ( 16 mm .) 

missiqn , Madras, 
( B . & W .) (India ). 

11 - 2- 74 

U 
Sapamoksham (Malay- 3872 -67(15) Anaswara Prodas. Anaswara Prodns., 67426 
alam ) (35 mm .) ( B . 

Madras. 

Madras. 
& W .) (India ). 

11- 2-74 
Endorsement on Cert. No. 67426 -Ų . dt. 11th Feb , 74 issued to film Sapamoksham (Malayalam ) 
35 mm . B . & W . 
Longth applied : 3932 -39 m , 
Cuts - 

Metres 
1. Reel 3. - Delete thesceno of Surendran and Baby In tho hotel-koeping only flashes ) 

of Baby s talking over the phone . . 
2 . Reel 3 – Delete suggestive sound effocts from the bathroom , 
3 . Reel 4 - Delete the action of hotelattendant guggesting breasts 
4 . Reel4 Delete the shot of leg of a man on the front seat occupied by a Woman 

3 -34 
in bus 


* } 


56 :38 


Total 


59 . 72 


Actual length will be : 3872 .67 Motres in 15 Reels. 


U 


M /8334 


106 .68 (1) Ravi International, Ravi International, 
Madras , 

Madray , 


67427 


Trailer of Do Haath 
Sao Bunduken 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) 
(B . & W .) ( India ). 


11 - 2 - 74 


2160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART 111 - SEC . 4 


-- 


- 


- - 


- - 


2 


U 


M / 8416 


M /8409 


Do Haath Sao Ban - 3869 -44 (17 ) Ravi Internatinal Madras 

67428 
dukon (Hindi) ( Scope) 
(Partly coloured) 

11- 2 - 74 
(35 mm .) (India ). 

U 
Kadavul Mama 3887 - 72 (15 ) Padmini Pictures , Padmini Pictures , 

67429 
( Tamil) (35 mm .) 

Bangalore. Bangalore . 

- With cuts . 
(B . & W .) (India ). 

11 - 2 - 74 
Endorsemont on Cort : No. 67429 -U , dt. 11-2 - 74 issued to film Kadavul Mama ( Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Length applied ; 3937 . 70 m . 
Cuts — 

Metros 
1. Reel1 - Delete Manickam s action of pulling sari of Karpagam . His pushing her 
down on cot . 

2 . 13 
2 . Reel 4 Delete all close -shots of fight in which theman in the guise of a Red Indian 
participates . . 

2 -74 
3 . Reel 7 – Reduce fight to tho point when tho plotograph is re-snatched from Kandhan 8 .83 
4. Real 7 -- Delete all shots of the action of whipping . . . . . 
5. Roel 7 -- Reduce fight in the nursing home to a flagh 

12 - 49 
6 . Reel 7 - Delete the fight between Karunakaran and Kannanima 

14 . 04 
Total . 49 .98 


9 .75 


M /8413 


- 


With cuts . 


6 .09 


Actual length will bo : 3887 .72 m . In 15 reels . 

U 
Gali Patalu (Tolugu ) 4267 .65 (15) Anil Arts, Madras . Anil Arts,Madras. 67430 
(35 mm .) ( B . & W .) 
(India ). 

12 - 2 - 74 
Endorsemont on Cert, No.67430 - U , dt. 12 -2 -74 issuod to tho film Gali Patalu ( Telugu ) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Longth applied : 4308 .88 m . 
Cuts 

Metres 
1 . Reel 4 – Delete shots of Susila undressing in bathroom as Kamayya is looking 
through keyholo . . . 

. . . . . 

2 .89 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete the soquence of Pandu with towel on his back towards camera and 

Rangamma closing her eyes looking at bim from opposite direction 
3. Reel 6 - Delete tho prisonors punching Satyam on bis stomach in jail as they are 
beating him . . . . 

2 . 13 

. 
4 . Reel 6 - Delete shots ofGanganna removing glass piece from the solo of his shoe 

and a hexa blade from the other shoo and also later on delete his cutting the 
iron bar of the window standing on tho back of Satyam , to escape from jail 
shown in detail . ( The ond portion of the shot whero Ganganna is near the 
window may be retained for continuity of the story ) . . 

. 10 .81 
5. Reel 6 - Delete Ganganna s dialogue to Satyam " Tappu Kadoo - Etho okati 

fondu rojullundall. As tarvata maryadaga velli povall " before escaping 
from jail . . . . 

2 . 28 
6 . Reel 7 - - Delete the following from the picturisation of dance on the song beginning 

with tho words “ Hoy, Hey , Hey " :- - 
(a ) Tho dancer rubblag her posterior to Satyam s posterior on the words 

" Yla , Lla " 
(b ) The dancer giving indecorous beats to tho posterior of Satyam by her 

posterior whon both are standing back to back on BGM .. . ) 6 .69 
7 . Reel 8 - Delete the soquence of the mob stoning the idol of Hanuman and disfiguring 

his face when Satyam is hiding behind the idol. (No objection to viows 
of stonos falling in other places ) 

7 : 30 
8 . Reel --- Delete the clogo-shots of the dancer shaking her breasts vigorously in the 

dance on BGM . (No objection to lodge shots ) . . . . . 3 -04 
9 . Reel 2 – Froni the text of the song begianing with the words " Tandu na Nandana" 

delete the following lines : (1) Okkaru pykokkostaru ; ( 2) Vachina pani poor 
tiavagane ; (3) Chachinattu padi yuntaru . (Sound only - replaced approved 

words) . . . . . . . 
10 . Reel 7 – From the song text of song beginning with " Hoy , Hey , delete the follow 

ing Loos 
( 1) Na jilugu pyta tanunna cheta ika niluva lenandira ; ( 2) Jataga kalisi 

jagame marachi swargalu choodalira ," (Sound only - Icplaced 
approved words) . . . . 

Total . 41-23 


Actual length of film will be : 4267 .65 m . in 15 reels . 


2161 


PART III - SEC , 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - -- 

- 
T - 23 
1 


7 


M /8344 


Hare Krishna (Hindi) 

(Partly coloured ) (35 
mm .) (India ). 


U 
3856 . 32( 18 ) Mukosh Enterprises , Mukesh Enterprises , 67431 
Madras. Madras. 

12 - 2 - 74 

U 
305 . 00 ( 1 ) Tho Directorate of the Directorate of 67432 

Information & Public Information & Public - - 
Relations , Mudras . Relations , Madras . 13 - 2 - 74 


M /8452 


" Tamilnadu Govern 
mont Regional News 
Bulletin 110 ( Tamil) 
(35 mm .) (B . & W .) 
( India ). 


M /8454 


" Vetri Kuvippon 
( Tamil) (35 mm .) 
(B . & W .) ( India ). 


80 -76 ( 1) Murasoli Maran , Murasoli Maran , 67433 
Madras . Madras. 

13 - 2 - 74 

U 
3927 -64 (14 ) Marina Movies,Madras . Marina Movies, Madras 67434 

14 -2 - 74 


M /8443 


Samayalkaran (Tamil) 

(35 mm .) (B . & W .) 
( India ). 


U 


M /8440 


3644 .88 ( 14 ) Chitrakala kendran , 

Madras . 


Shri K , S , R . Moorthy, 
Madras. 


67435 


15 - 2 - 74 


Jeevikkan Maran - 
nupoya Stroo (Mala 
yalam ) (Colour) (35 
mm .) (India ). 
Sati Apusuya (Hindi) 
(Colous) (35 mm .) 
(India ). 


M /8441 


3987 .70 ( 16) Venkatapathy Pictures , Shri S . V . Rajagopal, 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67436 


15 - 2 - 74 


Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of of Film Censors during the week Ending 23rd Friday, 1974 . 

BOMBAY 
B /71325 “ Sandhana -- Dawda 430 . 00 ( 4 ) Space Applications Space Applications 74379 P . E . 
A Quiz Programme 

Centre. 

Centre 
(Gujarati) (16 min .) 

18 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71269 


" Chhittar Ya Bafra 

(Hindi) (35 mm .) 


546 . 17 (2) S . N . Bhagwat, 


Anand Chitravani. 


74380 


P , E , 


18 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71330 


Seeneins - 


Sgcnoins 


27381 


P.F. 


" Geformle Zukunpt - 

50 Jahro Bauhaus " 
(English ) (16 mm .) 
(FRG .) 


158 . 00 ( 1) Consulate General of Redaktion 

the Federal Republic chaſt , 
of Germany, Bom 
bay- 20 


19 - 2 -74 


U 


B / 71323 


216 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Universum 


Film A .G 


74382 P.E . 


" Gustaf Grundgens" 

(Eng .) (Col.) (16mm .) 
(FRG .) 


B /71264 


B126 avgundestens erns ) 


19 - 2 - 74 

U 
74383 


" Vapour Action " (Eng.) 

( 35 mm ). 


30 . 48 (1 ) 


254 


M /s. Filma -5 , Jyoti 
Studio , Kennedy 
Bridgo, Bombay- 7, 


M /S . Film -5 , Jyoti 
Studio , Konnedy — 
Bridge, Bombay -7 . 


19 -2 -74 


U 


B /71350 


29 . 87( 1 ) 


" Orange Revolution " 

(Eng.) (Col.) (35 mm .) 


34384 


M /8 , Trio Films, Jyoti 

Studio , Konnedy 
Bridge, Bombay- 7. 


M /s. Trio Films, Jyoti 
Studio , Kennedy — 
Bridge , Bombay- 7. 


19 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71349 


29 . 87 (1 ) 


" Orange Explosion " 

(Eng .) (Col.) ( 35 mm .) 


Do. 


Do. 


74385 


B1289 nove 


19 - 2 - 74 

U 
74386 


B /71259 


" First in Class First 

In Sports " (English ) 
(Col.) (35 mm .) 


30 .48(1 ) Film Media , 47-Laxmt Mr, Jyoti G . Thakur, 

Insurance Building, Film Media . 
Sir P . M . Rd , Bom 
bay - 1 . 


19- 2- 74 


B /71262 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do. 


74387 


" Nourishing Bourn 

vita " (Hindi) (Col.) 
(35 mm .) 


19- 2- 74 
U 
74388 


B /71151 


" Little Angelo" (Mar.) 

(Col.) (35 mm .) 


30 - 48 (1) 


19 - 2 -74 

U 
74389 


B /71260 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


" Shakti Se Bharpoor 

Bournvita " (Marathi) 
(Col.) (35 mm ) 


Do. 


14389 


19-2-74 


19 - 2 -74 


2162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC : 4 
R M 

- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


I 


2 


B /71261 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


74390 


“ Delicious Bournvita " 

(Gujarati) (Colour) 
( 35 nim .) 


Film Medis , 47Laxni) Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, 
Insurance Buildg., Sir Film Media , 
P . M . Rd., Bombay- 1 


19- 2 - 74 

U 
74391 


B /71149 


" Pyale Munna " (Gui) 

(Col ) (35 mm .) 


30 .48( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


19 - 2 - 74 


B / 71147 


30 .48 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Doctor s Advice " 

(Gujarati) (Colour ) 
(35 mm . ) 


Do. 


74392 


19 - 2 - 74 


B /71324 


“ Tr. of Thokar" (Hin .) 

(Col.) (35 mm .) 


98 -45 (1) 


74393 


Movic Templo , 3rd Swarn Singh , 
floor , Famous Cino 
Bldg ., Bombay -11. 


20 - 2 -74 


B /71360 


208 .00(1) 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1323 ” (Northern 
Edition) (35 mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Bom 
of India , 24 -Peddar bay- 26 . 
Rd., Bombay- 26 . 


74394 ( Valid for English , 

Hindi, Kashmiri, 
20 - 2 - 74 Punjabi & Urdu 

versions). 


B /71359 


294 .00 ( 1) 


" Indian News Review 

No. 1323 " (35 mm .) 


Do. 


Do. 


74395 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
20 -2-74 Gujarati, Tamil, 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Assa 
mese, Oriya & 

Bengali versions ). 
U 


B /71352-3 


“ Maharashtra News 

No . 259 " (Hindi & 
Mar .) (35 mm .) 


300 . 00 (1 ) Dir. Gen , of Informa. 

tion & Public Rela 
tion, Goyt, of Maha - 
rashtra , 


Dir . Gen , of Informa 
t ion & Public Rela - — 
tlon , 


20 - 2 - 74 


U 


B / 71230 


30 -48 ( 1 ) 


" The Wonder World 

of Sea " (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


General Communi- 
cations , Bombay -20 , 


Genoral Communi. 
cations, Kshama 
Bhawan , 37 -New 
Marine 

Lines , 
Bombay- 20 . 


74397 

- 
20 - 2 - 74 


( Valid for English , 

Hindi, Gujarati, 
Marathi, Tamil , 
Kannada , Telugu 
Bengali versions ). 


B /71354 


P . E . 


" Nai Roshani" (Hindi 

( 35 mm ). 


299 . 89 (1) S . G . Khirwadkar, H . P . Tlwari, Dir., Inf. 74398 

Asstt . Dir., M . P . Gov . Pub ., Madhya Pra - - - 
vornment. desh Govt., Bhopal. 20 - 2 - 74 

U 
287 .00 ( 1) Consulato Gen , of the Radio Bremen . 

74399 
Federal Ropublic of 
Germany, Bombay- 20 . 

20 - 2 -74 


B / 71310 


P . E . 


" Bremen Portrait of 

a city State " (Eng.) 
(16 nm .) (FRG .) 


B /71334 


208 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Gessel SchaftFur Bil 

dende Film , 


74400 


" Horr Kokule Ich Kon 

ne Sie Nicht " (Eng .) 
(16 min .) (FRG .) 


P . E . 


20 - 2 - 74 


B / 71332 


U 
74401 


127 


159 .00 ( 1) Consulate General of 

F . R . G . 


Herbert Apolt, 


" Portrait Of A Land 

scope" (Eng.) (Col.) 
(16 mm , ) 


P . E . 


21-2 - 74 


B /71333 


115 .00 (1) 


Do. 


U 
74402 


Walter Leckvebusch 
Munchan , 


" At Tho Turn Of The 

Age " ( Col.) ( Eng.) 
(16 mm .) 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


B /71343 


74403 


" Pyaso Dil " (Hindi) 

( Col.) (35 mm ) 


3277 . 51 (13) Amritlal Khanna, 109 , 

Guru Hotel, Khar, 
Bombay - $ 2 . 


AmritlalKhanna , Now 
Ashok International 
Bombay- 52 . 


21- 2 -74 


B / 70703 


74404 


" Tr . of Kora Anchal" 

(Hindl) ( Colour ) 
( 35 mm . ) 


91 - 44 (1 ) S . Kamruddin , Pawan Moxico Films, Aircon 

Amar Dcep , Co -opo - ditioned Markot . 
rative Housing Socic 
ty S ntacruz, Bom 
bay- 54 . 


21 - 2 - 74 


U 


B /71322 


315 .00(1) Consulato General of Debona Films. 

F .R .G . 


7440 $ 


" Gerhart Hauptmann ” 

(English ) ( 16 min .) 
(FRG .) 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


PART II — SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEM52 , 13 , 1973 (AGRAILAYANA 22, 1897) 


2163 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - = 


= = 


- 


-- -- - - = 


-- = - = - = - = 


-= - = - = 


U 


B /71338 


109 .00 (1 ) 


Citatc Gəncral Walter Knoop . 

F . R . G . 


74406 


" Meister Werden " (NO 

( Cominentary ) ( 16 
mm .) (FRG .) 


P . E . 


21 - 2 - 74 


B /71339 


284 .00 (1) 


Do , 


Studio Hambuig. 


74407 


P . E . 


" The Farmer - Between 

Yesterday and To 
morrow " ( English ) 
(16 mm .) ( FRG .) 


21- 2 -74 


B /71319 


303- 00 (1) 


Do . 


U 
74408 


Martin Schlesslci, 

Baden Badu . 


" Childs Play On Ski” 

( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (FRG . 


P . E . 


21- 2 -74 


B / 71320 


163 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Rudolf Stolting 


74409 


P E . 


" Gregor Mendel 

Father of Modern 
Genetics " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(FRG .) 


21 - 2 -74 


U 


B / 71204 


With triangle mark . 


" Dukh Sukh " (Hindi) 3431 44 ( 14 ) Noushron films, C /o Mr. Je weed Qudri, 

74410 
( Prt. Col.) ( 35 mm . ) 

Johnson Llectricils, 
39 /41 , Bombay - 3. 

22- 2 -74 
Endorsement : 

Original longth . — 3431 44 Metres. 
Delete the shot of Sukhlal kissing a girl during the Picturisation of the song. - -4 -57 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 4 .57 m .) 
Only Reel No. 7 is in colour) 
Longth of deletions : 4 -57 m .) 
Length of replaceinent : 4 . 57 m .) 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be.: — 3431 .44 m . 


U 


B /71361 


" Tux ? (Eng .) (35 mm .) 


74411 


P . E . 


450 .00 (2 ) FilinsDivision , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Poinbay- 26. 


22 - 2 - 74 


B /62457 


" Mehman " (Hindi) (Colour) 3688 . 25 Shtrnji P . 931, Shati jit Shatrujit Paul, Shatrujit U - 74412 With triangle mark . 
( 35 mm .) 

( 15 ) 

Films, 5 -Anand Films, 5 - Anand Kunj, 
Kunj Linking Rrad , Linking Road, Santa 23 - 2 - 74 
Sani. cruz , Bombay- cruz , Bonbay-54 . 

54 . 
Endorsement: 

Original Length . -- 3845 .17 M . 
No. Cut No . Reel 

III. (1) From the picturisati i of tho song " Hasy oof ye Jawani. . . " delete shots of the hero Rejesh 

hit:10 ; 1 tho Wai , of Shecla and fondling her. — 0 91 m . (Replaced with approved shot. : - 0 .91 
( ii ) Delete jerking ingverents ofthe brigain by Sheela on the words "Hai , 0of yeh Jawani" _ 0 . 70 m 

(Ropilaced with app . ,ved shits .:40 . 70 m .) 
( iii) Delete Rajesh i ndling Shocla at the hips.; - 0 . 91 m . 

(Replaced with « ppi ved shuts. — 0 .91 m .) 
( iv ) Delete Rajesh holding Shcolcı very closely and lifting her . - 3 . 90 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots. : — 3 - 90 m .) 
(v ) Delete cheek to chcek pressing between Rajesh and Shocla. -- 1 -30 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots . : - 1 : 30 m .) 
2 . IV . Delete the following shrts : 

(a ) Shots of the dancer when she is lying down and in which lier thigh and hip are prominently 

exposed on the wording “ Narmatnar mat yaera . . . . . . " to " Kil shayad kisne dekha humpaa 
ho " — 504 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots . 5 . 04 m .) 
(b ) Shotof dancer s revo ling thigh while standing with the slave on the wording " Yeaish do gharika " 

1 :52 11 . (Repicrel with . pproved shots. — 1 .52 m .) 
(c ) Shots of the dulceprenposed thigh while singing " Ehegan khid pekerle " till she resuincs turning 

turning action . – 4 . 20 m . (Repl..ced with approved shots .- - 4 - 20 m .) 
3. V . Reduced the scene of Re jezh and Shocla pressing cheeks on each others whie making ovc on the 

chairs . - 5 . 39 m . 

(Length retained . — 23 - 87 m .) 
VII. ( a ) Delete the undui lined words from the dialogue said hy inasseur: " Din men waiter ka kaam karta 

hoon raat ko maaliph kaita hron " (Replaced with approved words) 
( b ) Delete the following Weirds spoken by Railway guard : 

(1) Chalati gaadi pur mat chadhiya (Repliced with approved words) 
(ii) Ek hipatri por do gadiyan naliin ho sakti " ( Replaced with approved words) 
Delete the suggestive kiss between Rajith and Shcola in his room in the hotel. - 1 .92 m . 


x 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4- 3696176 


4 - 36961/ 75 


2164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - - Sec . 4 


Cut No. Ree No. 

XI. Reduce the rape scene by deleting the portion where Sinha s chin touches the bogom of the dumb 

girl and delete the rape sceno of the dumb girl by Sinba in the clogo proximity of idols of Lord 
Krishna, Jesus Christand holy Quraan and also delete the last close - ups of their faces establish 
ing copulation , (There would be no objection to rotain the shots for the sake of continuity 
ilyoiding the idols and Quraan ).- 25 .60 m , 

(Length retained . — 38 .09 m .) 
7 . XIV & XV. Reduce the fight between Rajesh and Sinha in the horses encl sure and Rajesh and Anwar in the 

collar and reduce promincnt vicws of Sinha s blood smeared face . 
Reduce the fight soquonco taking out some of the most gruesome shots and reduce tho whipping 
of Sloha by Rajesh in the horses cncloguire. 

-- 9 - 42 m . 
(Length rotained .6 : 5 . 80 m .) 
(Dolcted voluntarily , : 114 . 59 m .) 
Length of delotions. : 60 .81 m . 
Length of yoluntary deletions. ; 114 . 59 m . 
Longth of approved replacemeni. : 18 .48 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be. : 3688 . 25 m . jn 15 recls . 


B /11336 


140 . 00 (1 ) 


Consulate Gen , of 
F . R . G . 


Atlas Films (Hamburg ). 


“ Sonntag Morgen In 
St. Pauli” (No Com 
montary ) (16 mp .) 
(FRG .) 


74413 Not P . E . 
23-7 - 74 


B /71335 


140 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Deutsche Condal Fim 
Gmbh . 


" Tho Poisoned Atmo- 
sphoro " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm ) 
(FRG .) 


74414 

- - 
23 - 2 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71337 


179 . 00 ( 1) 


Insel Film 
Zauner . 


Gecrg 


U 
74415 

- 
23 - 2 - 74 


" Munchen -Messe - Und - 
Ausstellungostadt." 
( Baglish ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (FRG .) 


P . E . 


B /71320 


172 . 00 ( 1) 


Rudolf Stolting . 


" The Discovery of 
Radio Activity " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (FRG .) 


74416 

- PE , 
23 - 2 - 74 


B /71321 


166 . 00 ( 1 ) 


DO. 


U 
74417 


" Durerstadt Und Sta - 
htbet on " (English ) 
( Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


Redaktionsgenein 
Schft. 


Not P . E . 


23 - 2 - 74 


B /70633 


1. 


I 


" Khoto Sikkay " 3787 . 13 ( 15 ) Mewar Films, 7 / 1 Air M , D . Kothari, 7 / 1 3216 With Trianglo mark , 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 

Conditioned Markot, Air Conditioned - - 
(35 mm .) 

Tardeo , Bombay- 34 . Market, Tardeo , Bom 20 - 2 - 74 

bay - 34 , 
Endorsement: 

Original length : 3839 . 11 m . 
Col Reel 
No. No. 

Reduce the viow of killing of the moneylendor by Janga, (with a view to minimising tho clement of 

cruelty - 1 .22 m . (Longth retajocd : 1 . 22 m .) 
2 . Il ( a ) Reduce the passionate gestures of Komal and Baggu during their love-making sccnc , on the cot. 
4 - 57 m . 

(Length rotained : 9 .91m .) 
(6 ) Delete the suggestive dialoguo " To gaon men dakutumhara ," as spoken by the truck driver. - 3 . 35 m . 
During the fight, reduce hittings on the belly , striking with elastic ball and close views of fighting with 
fork . - 4 . 73 m . (Length rotainçd : 0 . 91 m .) 
After the mujra dance, reduce tho hittings of a man with gun butt . — 1 -22 m . (Deloted complotely ). 
(a ) In Janga s don reduce the view of daggor being thrown by Janga , deleting the close view of dagger 

on tho back of the villager. — 1 .83 m . (Length retained : 0 .40 m .) 

( ) Reduce the cruel impact wlion Janga kills the judge. — 2 -44 m . (Length retained : 0 . 26 m .) 
6 . V Delete the following suggostive dialoguo spoken by a fomale dancer : 

" Agar hathiar istemal nahin kiye jayen to voh bekar ho jaate hain ," – 3 :05 m . 
7. VIII From the sequence in which Janga rescuos Dilwar from the Police - yan , delete the close rango shooting 

of the policomon by Janga s men . - 1 52 m . 
8 . XI Reduce tho vlow of the girl with bare back lying with Baggu on the cot, by deleting tho beginning 

portion of the shot where Baggu s legs are on tho girl s legs.- 1 .83 m . (Length retained : 1402 m .) 
9 . XIII (a ) Reduce to only three whips , tho whipping of Rani by Janga on the cot. – 3 -66 m . (Longth retained ; 

2 .4410 .) 
(6 ) Reduce the impact of cruel striking with knife by Janga on the body of Ramu and looking at the 

blood smearod koife 3 . 49m . (Longth retalned : 1 : 37 m .) 


4 . IV 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2165 


10 . 


Cut 

Reel XIV 
No, No. & XV . 

During tlic fights, reduce the general impact of cruelty and violence , by delering grucsomo shots 
showingwounds with blood and close viows of weapons used in the fight - 17 . 07 m .(Loogth rotained 
in Reel XIV : 109 .12 m .) 
(Longth rotained in Roel XV : 84 . 12 m .) 
Length of doletions : 51 . 98 m . 

Acrual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3787 . 13m . in 15 reels. 
B /71327- 30 
Film " Sweet Dronz Como Truo ( English ) (Colour) (35 mm .) 
U - Cert. NƏ. 73054 of 18 -8 - 1973 , 

This cortilioucis als ) viled for Tanil ,Kuandi, M +) yalann and Telugu vorsions of the film in colour. The length 

of the film ramzinsu 227ged . This artibi , ato was ondorsed on 18th Fobruary, 1974 . 
B /69990 
Film : " Story of Chocolate ( Col ) (English ) 
U -Cort. No. 73211 of 25 -8 - 1973 . 

Daleted various shots : 21 : 36 m . 
Actuallengih of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 274 .50 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th February , 1974 . 
B /70647 
Film : " Madhosh (Hindi) (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No. 74291 of 30 - 1 - 1974 . 

Reel VNI : Deleted various shots : 33 -22 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3627 .66 m . 

This certificato was ondorsod on 20th February , 1974 , 
B /71357 -58 
Film : " Subha Ka Bhula ” (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No . 74363 of 14 -2 - 1974 , 

Tnis certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Tamil versions of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was ondorsed on 20th February , 1974 . 
B /71078 
Film : " Ek Gaon Ki Kahan, " ( English ) 
U - Cert, No . 74171 of 7- 1 - 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Hindı version of the film in colour. Tno longth of the film remains unchanged . 

This corliſchte was ondorsed on 22nd February , 1974 . 
B /69900 
Film : " Gupt Gyan " (Hindi) ( Colour) 
U - Cort. No . 3205 of 19- 12 - 1973 , 

Reel No . 1 : Deleted various shots ; 54 .87 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletionswill be ; 3699 . 12 m . 

This Certificate was endorsed on 22nd February , 1974 . 
B / 70686 
Fum : " These are the Days" (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 74225 of 16 - 1- 1974. 
Correcrions ; 

The name of the producer may bo road as " Pro , S , K . Luthr " instead of “ Karoer Films & T . V , Institute " . 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 22nd Fobruary , 1974 . 
B /71355- 6 
Pulm : " Twica As Good " ( English )(Colour) 
U -Cert. No . 74312 of 4 - 2 -1974 

This certificato is also valid for Tamil and Malayalam versions of the film in culour. The length of the Alm 
remains unchanged , 

This cortificato was endorsed on 23rd February , 1974 . 
B / 71402 
Film : " The Monaco" (English )( Colour ) 
U - Ccrt. No . 74362 of 14 - 2 - 1974. 

This curtificate is also valid for Hindi vorsion of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This cortificato was endorsed on 23rd Fobruary , 1974 . 
R /71397-401 
Film : “ World Ronowned " (English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 72692 of 6 - 6 - 1973 . 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and Malayalam versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 23rd February, 1974 , 

Particulars of Filnis granted or Refused certificates by the Central Board of Film 
Censors during the week ending 23rd February , 1974 
CALCUTTA 

U 
A Lt Conquote Des 175 .00 (1) Centro Culturel Fran - N . Skrotsky . 

73376 P . E . 
Fonds Marts 

cais , Calcutta , 
( English ) (16mm .) 

21- 2 -74 
France 

- - - - - 


C / 7970 


2166 
S 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III - S & C . 4 

- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


1 


U 


C /7971 


175 .00 (1) 


Central Cultural 
Fianciis, Calcutta 


Pierre Tallaud , 


73377 


Roalito Concorde 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) France 


P . E . 


21- 2 - 74 


C / 7972 


150 . 00 ( 1 ) 


-Do 


-Do 


N . Shrotsky . 


73378 


P . L . 


Accidents Sur Com 
mande (English ) 
( 16 mm .) France , 


21 - 2 -74 

U 
73379 


C /7973 


150 .00 (1) 


-Do 


-Do 


P . E . 


Concorde Transal 
lantiquc (English ) 
( Col.) ( 16 mm .) Franco 


21- 2 - 74 


C /7976 


Jadi Fantom (Bongali) 
(35 min .) India . 


4470 ·81(15) 


Catrajug 47, Lolin 

Saravi, Calcutta - 13 , 


Chitrajug. 


73380 


23 - 2 - 74 


Particulars of silmis certified during week ending 

saturday 23 -2 -74 
MADRAS 


U 
67437 


M /8442 


" Trailor of Bahadur 
Ladktyao " (Hiadl) 
(35 mm .) (B & W ) India 


91 -44 (1) Kipadı Enterpris , Kapadia Enterprisos, 
Madris , 

Madras. 


18 - 2 - 74 


M /8448 & 

8449 


30 - 48 (1) Naguraj, S & S Plu - Nagaraj, S & S Pro 

ductions, B 113 aluny , ductions , Bangaloro . 


67438 


-- 


" 46 hours Grand 
Salo" (English & 
Kannada) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) India . 


18 - 2 -74 


M / 8 “: 10 


118 . 87 ( 1) Muluya51 112 Higl Filon Negara Mala 

Coran 53ijn , Mini 19. ysia , Malaysia . 


67439 


Tun Razık Tungg ık 
Kerajaan Baa lil 
(English ) ( 16 mm ) ( B & 
W ) Malaysia , 


18 -2 - 74 


M /8453 


“ Nando Bulabcku 3953 - 71 ( 15 ) Gupi Productions, Gupi Productions, 67440 With cuts . 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm . ) 

Bungalore . 

Bangalore 
( B & W ) India 

19 -2 -74 
Endorsoment on Cort. N .). 67440 - U , dt. 19 - 2-74 solicd to film Nanoo Balabeku (Kannada) 35 mm . B & W . 
Length applied : 3986 . 00 Mts . 
Cuts - - 

Metres 
1 . Reel 4 . Delete branding the child . . . . . 

· 

1 . 52 
2 . Reel 8 - Reduce fizit, deleting action of sm ishing hond of Ramnoth against the rock 2 .43 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the shut of cabaret dapor lying on table (Replaced orchestra : 1 :06 ) 1 . 06 
4 . Reel 13 – Delete shots of Bilu and the girl on but including har dialogue (retain 

ing only last shot when Lilly go out of the room threatening Balu ). 28 . 34 


Total 


, 


33 - 35 


Total replacement : 1 . 06 Mts . 
Actual length is 3953 -71 Mts, in 15 Reels . 


U 
67441 


M / 8228 


Sisupalan (Tamil) 

(35 mm .) ( B & W ) India 


3998 . 97 ( 15 ) Sro , Vizy ? Cine Arts , Sree Vijaya Cino Arts, 
Madras 

Madras, 


19 - 2 - 74 


M /8451 


ប 
“ Tiger Thathachari 3980 .68 ( 14 ) Suntour Films, Madras. Senthur l ilms, Madras, 67442 With cuts. 
(Tanul) (35 mm .) (B & W ) 
India , 

20 - 2-74 
Endorsement ou Cori . Nu. 67442 -U , d . 20 -274 issued to the fila : Tigor Thathachari ( Tamil) ( 35 mm .) ( B & W ) 
Longth applied . 3980 68 Motres, 
Curs 

Metre 
Reel 10 — Song 4 - Delete the words Yaarum , Kanadi " Virundhuttava ” . 
( Sound only - Topluced approved words.) 

Total , 


mit 


Actual length oj the film remains the same nalicly 3980 . 68 Metres in 14 , eels . 


PART III Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2167 


ISS 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


1 


3 


5 


6 


7 


M /8437 


U 
Chandrik utam 4218 .43 (16 ) Raja Silpi , Madras . Raja Siiri,Madras. 67443 With cuts. 
(Malayalam ) ( Partly 
coloured ) ( 35 mm .) 

21- 2 -74 
India 
Endorsement on Cort. No . 67443 -U , dt. 21 -2- 74 issued to the film Chandrakantham (Malayalam ) (Partly colour ). 
Length applied : 4218 .43 Mts . 
Cuis 

Metres 
Reel 6 – When Vinayan and his wife aro on bod , delere his sontence to her " Amminji Venom ." 

(Sound only romoved - silent shot rotained ). 


Tota ) 
Actual longth of this filin 4218 43 m in 16 oels . 
The colour portion in Recl Nos. 1, 3 , 4 & 9 is 121 . 92 m . and the balance 4096 -51 m , in B & W . 


U 


M / 8464 


"Pondy Vizla ( Tamul) 
( 35 mm .) ( B & W ) India 


103 66 ( 1 ) Chitramala Combines, 

Madras . 


Chitramala Combinos , 

Madras . 


67444 


21- 2 - 74 


U 


M /8450 Boothayyun ? Mga 4266 .60 ( 15 ) Juin Combines, Man - Jain Combines , Man 67445 
Ayyu (Kannada) 

galore . 

galoro . 
(Colour) (35 min .) India 

21- 2 - 74 

U 
M /8456 - Virata Parva (Kooch l- 4455 . 26 (18 ) Vinoda Picturos , Ban Vinoda Picturos , Ban 67446 
ka Valine (Kannala ) 

calore , 

galore 
(35 min ) ( B & W .) India 

21- 2 -74 
Particulars of filmscertificator rufused certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 2nd Marclı, 1974 

BOMBAY 
B170461 " Jurm Aur Sya ! " 3810 49( 15 ) N . A . Angari, Kochar N . A , Ansari, Kociar 74418 Witli trianglo mark . 
(Tevis 1) (Ilinci) 

House , 3rd Road , House , 3rd Rood , - - - - - - - 
(Coluur ) ( 35 mm .) 

Khar, Bombay - 52 . Khar, Bombay - 52 , 25 -2 - 74 
Endorsement : 
Original length : 3857 .61m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 1. Delete thy roivronco in cicloguo to " Dushman dosh " as it may be nusunderstood ta moan our 

noigiıbouring country with whom we are trying to build up friendly roluricns . (Deleted sound only ) . 
2 . II Delete the dialoguc of Sohan " Ab sardiyon mo hamla nahin h062 " . (Deleted sound only ). 

In tho mooting of anti-national olunients addrossod by Solan , delete the shot of a man soch in military 
uniform as also anothor in in Gandhi c2p . -- 2 . 89 m 
In the sound of mosscngor from the desert aroa with kvifo struck on his back and speaking to Rikki. 

educe tho portions where the knifo struck on the back is soon . - - 0 - 36 m , (Length rotajnod : 0 .61 m .) 
Reduce the fight between Rajesh and goondas at the railway station by deleting hard hitting shots 

1 . 58 m . 
In Holon s dance delete closc - up shots of midriff with indocorous actions ind tilt up shot of a man 

moving his faco upwards along the logs of the dancor. - 8 . 88 in . 
7. V . Delete the hard hitting shats in tho fighting at the bar, particularly tł1059 hitting with the butt. - 6 .59m . 
8 . V . In the scone of Aarif entoring the bedroom of Jamila , his fianencec, delete tho portion of their 

On top of anotior in the rolling on bod . - - 2 07 m . 
1. yir , Dilute 1112 hard htting shots when Rajesh is hiting hiroling .- 4 . 34 11.. 
10 VII . Delete the indecorousmovement of bust and midriff in the cabaret dance . - 2 .68 m . 
11. X . Reduce the impact of Rajosh killing the (wo gangsters , by deleting two of the shots of gangsters falling 

down . (There is no objection to two lying dead on tho road ) — 0 .83 m . (Longth relained : 1 . 13 m .) 
12 . XI. In le fighting botween Rajosh and Sonan , reduce by deleting hard hitting shots . In subsoquent 

sequence of Rojesh trying to drown Syhan by prossing him , reduco the scene, - . 4 .85 m . (Lontgth 

Toulod : 22 . 86 01.) 
13. XII . !) ring the song , delete the suggestion of kissing between Rajesh and Ril:ki – 0 .49 m . 
14 . XIV . Hdlce the impactof threo man being killed by Rajesh , delcring two of thom falling down .-- 0 - 74 in . 

(Length rotainod : 0 .61 m .) 
15. XV. Reduce the last fight between Rajesh and Sohan by deleting gruosome shots — 10 .86 m . 

(Longth retained : 18 59 n .) 
Length of dolotions : 47 . 12 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3810 -49 m . in 15 reels. 

U 
B /71431- 2 " Maharashtra News 304 .00 ( 1 ) Director of Publ. The Dır. Gen , of In - 74419 
No . 260 " (Marathi 

Govt. ofMaharashtra , formation & Pub . — 
& Hindi) (35 min .) 

I-ilm Centro , Bom Relations , Govt . of 27 -2 -74 
bay -34 . 

Maharashtra . 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


S 


- - - 


-- - 

- 


-- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


2168 
1 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III -- Sec. 4 

2 3 4 5 


U 


B /71414 


" I. N .R . No . 1324" 
(35mm ) 


224 .00(1) Filing Division , Govt. Films Division, Govt. 7442 

of India , 24 , Peddar of India , 24 , Peddar -- - - -- 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 27 - 2 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Tamil , 

Telugu , Kannada, 
Malayalam , Puo 
jabi Kashmiri, 
Urdu & Sindhi 
version ). 


U 


B / 71415 


299 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do , 


" I, N . R , No . 1324 " 
(Eastero Edition ) 
(35 mm ) 


74421 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bengali, 
27 - 2 -74 Assami & Orlya 

version ) . 
U 
74422 


B /71396 


" Mahſtichitra No. 180 " 
(Gujrati) (35 mm .) 


143 26 ( 1) Director of Information , Director of Information, 
Govt. of Gujarat. 

Govt. ofGujarat. 


27- 2 -74 


U 


B /71288 


222 - 50 ( 1) National Educational National Coal Board 

& Information Films Filmi Unit . 


74423 P . E . 


" Communicating 
Safety Part I: Turn 
ing tho Light ON 
Danger" . (U .K .) 


Ltd , 


27-2 - 74 


B /71366 


163 .07 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
74424 


Do . 


P . E . 


“ Communicatiog 
Safoty Part II ; Make 
Tho Bost use of Your 
solf " (English ) (Col.) 
(16 mm .) (U .K .) 


27-2 - 74 


ប 


B /71365 


B /71292 


B /71228 


" Communicating 210 - 31( 1) 

74425 P . E . 
Safety Part III : Sell 
Safety (English ) 

27 -2- 74 
( Colour) (16 mm .) (U . K .) 

U 
" Introduotion to Rat. 177 - 39 ( 1 ) Do . 

74426 P . E . 
ing " (English) (16 mm .) 
( U . K .) 

27- 2 - 74 

U 
“ Insomnia " (English ) 221 59 (1) Do. 

U . S . Navy . 

74427 P . E , 
( 16 mum .) (USA ) 

27-2 - 74 
B /71361 
Film : " I. N . R . No. 1323 " (Northoro Edition ) 
U - Cort. No. 74394 of 20 - 2 - 1974 . 

Corrections : 
The length of the film on the faco of the certificate may be road as 294 .00 m . instead of 208 .00 in , 

This certificato was ondorsed on 25th Fobruary , 1974 . 
B /71360 
Film : “ J. N . R . No. 1323 " 
U -Cert . No. 74395 of 20 - 2- 1974 . 

Corrections: 
Tho longth of the film on the face of the certificato may be read as 208 .00 m . instead of 294 .00 m , 

This certificato was ondorsed on 25th February, 1974 , 
B /71183 
Film : " Haryana Samachar Darshan No . 9 " 
U -Cert. No. 74288 of 30 -1 - 1974 . 

Corrections: 
The longth of the film on tho face of tho cortificato mily bo read as 283 . 16 m , instead of 238 - 16 m . 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 25th February , 1974 . 
B /70122 
Film : " Pinjra " (Hindi) (35 mm .) 
U -Cert. No, 73644 of 16 -10 - 1973. 
Reel No. 1. Deleted various shots 41 . 15 m . 

2. Deleted various shots 17 .68 m . 
3 . Deleted various shots 26 -52 m . 
4 . Deleted various slots 16 .76 m . 
5. Deleted various shots 26 .21 m . 
6 . Deleted various shots 38 -39 m . 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


PART II - Sec. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2169 


= 


(1) _ _ (2) 


(3) 


7 . De eled various shots 9 .45 m . 
8 . De eied various slots 3 .66 in . 

Deletea various shots 96 . 01 m 
12. Deleted various shots 6 .09 m . 
13 . Deleted various shots 10 : 36 m , 
14 . Deleted various shots 47 24 m . 

16 . Deleted various slots 38 41 m , 
Length of delerions : 377.93 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4265 -80 m . 

This cortificatc was endorsed on 25th February , 1974 . 
B /71371- 82 
Film : " Hop Us to Help You " ( Eng. ) 
U -Cert . No, 74339 of 11 - 2 - 1974 , 

This cortificato is also valid for Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati, Kannada , Tamil , Telugu, Bongali , Malayalam , Assamese , 
Oriya , Punjabi, and Urdų versions of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged , 

This certificate was ondorsed on 26th February , 1974 . 
B /70801 
Film : " Aarop " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U -Cert. No. 74226 of 16 - 1- 1974 . 
Reel No. III : Added various shots : 52 .43 m . 

XIII : Added various shots : 24 . 38 in . 
Length of additions: 76 . 81m , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 3838 .95 m . 
This certilicate is valid with or without above alterations. 

This certificato was endorsed on 26th February , 1974 . 
B /62682 
Film : " Samruddhi Nu Sopan " 

( Steps To Prosperity ) (Guj.) 
U -Cert. No. 63170 of 18 - 5 - 1871 

Reel No. I : Deleted various shots ; 67 .06 m . 
The final length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 405. 73 m . 

This certificato was endorsed on 27th Fobruary , 1974 . 
B /66359 
Film : " Bharat " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U -Cort. No. 70153 of 17 -6 - 1972 

Deleted various shots : 71 . 63 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be: 202 .69 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th February , 1974 , 
B /70018 
Film : " Garm Hava " (Urdu ) (Colour ) 
U -Cert. No. 73635 of 15 -10 -1973 
Reel No. 1 : Deleted acknowledgement titlos : 10 .67m . Recl No. XV : Deleted tho words: " Kaji sabab ko milane ko baad 

to main bhi isi natije pe pahuncha hun " .- 1 - 52m . Reel No . 1 : Superimposed prologue reading ag: " Takscem 
hua mulk to dil ho gaye tukde har socno micin toofan vahan bhi tha yahan bhiGeeta kikoi sunna na quraan 
ki sunni hriran sa coman vahan bhi tha yehan bhihar ghar main chita jalti thi lahraate the ghole har shahar 
moin shamshan vahan bhi tha yahan bhi." Reel No. XV : Superimposed epilogue rcading ag . Jo door se 
toofan ka karto hain naza & ra unke liye toofan vahan bhihai hahan bhi dhare mein jo mil jaogo bad jaoge 
yah wagkt ka ilaan yahan bhi hai yahan bhi." Reel No. XV : Added the following dialogue : 
" Hamcin Hindusthan chhodkar bhagna nahi chahiye balkc dusanso se kandhc se kandha mila kar apni 
mango ke liye ladana chhahiyo " ., 13 m , 
Length of doletions : 12 . 19 m . 
Length of additions : 2 . 13 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3993 37 m . In 15 reels. 

This cortificato was endorsed on 1st March, 1974 , 
B / 71443 -4 
Fum : " Soft Touch " (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cort. No, 74053 of 11- 12- 1973 

This Cərtificate is also valid for Kinnid and Gujarati versions of the ilm in colour, The length of the film 
remains unchanged . 

This certificate was en dorsod on Ist March , 1974 . 
B / 71440 - 1 
Film : “ Talo For Tots" (Hindi, Bongali , Tamil & Telugu ) 
U -Cort. No, 74079 of 15 - 12 - 1973. 

This cortificate is also valid for Marathi and English versions of the film . The length ofthe film remains unchanged , 
This certificate was endorsed on 1st March , 1974 . 


bhim wahan bhihai Superimpolalti thi la 


CALCUTTA 


U 
73381 


C 7978 


Paschim 

Benga 
Sarkarer Sangbad 
Chitra No . 54 (Bengali ) 
( 35 mm )- India . 


391 -67( 1 ) Narayan Ghosh 95, Dopt. of Information 

Baburam Ghosh Road , & Public Relations , 
Cal- 40 . 

Writers Buildings . 
Govt. ofWest Bengal 
Calcutta - 1. 


28 - 2 - 74 


MV 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBED. 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III — Sec . 4 


(4 ) 


(5) 


(7 ) 


-- 


- - 


U 


C -7979 


C -7977 


- - - - 
(2 ) ( 3 ) 

( 5 ) 

( 6) 
- - - - - - - - - - 

Dept. of Informition 
Jatra Utshab , 1973 396 24 ( 1 ) Bijoy Gupta 1 - D , Gouri & Public , Relations, 73382 
(Bengali) (35 mm ) India 

bari Lano, Cal- 4 . 

Govt . of West Bengal - 

Calcutta - 1, Writers Building, 28- 2- 74 
Paribahaner Natun 403 . 25 (2 ) B . J. Enterprise 10 /1, 

Do . 
Diganta (Bengali ) K , M . Naskar Road , 

73383 
(35 mm ) India . Calcutta . 

28 -2 - 74 
MADRAS 
Suprabatham (Mala - 3657 .00 ( 14 ALS Productions Sliri A . L . Srinivasan, 67447 
yalam ) (35 mm .) (B & W ) 

Madıns. Madras. 

- With Cuts. 
India 

25- 2 - 74 


U 


U 


M - 8461. 


Endorsedment on cert. No . 67447-U dt. 25th Feb . 74 _ issued to film Suprabathan (Malayalam ) 39mm . B & W . 


Length applied . 3663 -69 Metres . 


Mis . 
6 .69 


Cuts . 
1. Reel 3 - - Reduce tho shot in which the boy tries to pick the ball with his chinfrom that of thc girl s 

eliminating the action of rolling the ball over the bust. 


2 . Reel 9 - Delete the front close - shot of cabaret dancer s action on the round divan exposing 

her breasts . (Replaced shot of Anurdhan and his friend 3 .95). 


3 .95 


Total 10 .64 


Total replacement 3 .95 Mts. Actual length will be 3657 .00 Mts . In 14 Reels. 


U 


M -8459. 


" Manikka Thottil 423733( 15 ). 
( Tamil) (35mm .) (B & W ) 
India . 


Karpagam Productions, 
Madras . 


Kaspagam Produc- 67448 
tions , Madras 

-- - - With cuts . 
25- 2 - 74 


Endorsement on cort. No. 67448 - U dt. 25th Feb . ?74 — issued to the film Manikka Thottil ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 


Length applied . 4240 .67 Metres. 

Cuts . 
1. Reel 2 - Delete the dialogue of Manikkam " Unnai Midhikka Oruthar Podadhu , Naalu Per Venam " . 
2 . Reel 9 — Dalete the action of two inen coming close to the bust of the cabaret dancor in song No . 3 


Mts, 
1 .52 
1 . 82 


Total 3 - 34 


Actual length will be 4237 . 33 Metres , in 15 Reels. 


U 


M - 8466 


305 . 00 ( 1) 


67449 


Tamilnadu Govt. Re- 
gional News Bulletin 
111 ( Tamil) ( 35 m . n . ) 
( B & W .) India . 


The Directorate of In - The Directorate In 
formation & Public formation & Public 
Relations, Madras. Relations, Madras. 


26 - 2- 74 


M -8465 


U 
67450 


Films. Sanjeevini 

Madras . 


Films, 


91 .44 (1 ) Sanjeevini 

Madras. 


Trailor of Cundelu 
Theesina Monagadu 
( Telugu ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) India . 


28 - 2 -74 


U 


M -8467 


" Trailer of Lava Kush 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) India . 


83 -50 (1) Mcharprakash Movios, Mcharprakash Movies, 67451 
Madras. 

Madras. 

28 - 2 - 74 
WEEK ENDING 9TH MARCH 1974 . 

BOMBAY 


B /71410 - 19 


" Doctors Froin Kali 
movky " 

(Col.) 
( 16 inm .) (USSR ). 


203 . 00 (2 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate Ukraina Newsrecl and 

Gçneral 42-Nepeansca Documentary Films – 
Rd ., Bombay-6 . 

Studio . 


74428 P . E . Valid for Tamil 

- Telugu , Malayalam , 
4 -3 - 74 Bengali, Punjabi 

Gujarati, Marathi, 

& Hindi versions) . 
U 
74429 

Le P . E . 
4 - 3 -74 


B / 71407 


"" The Year of Mujpur " 
(Eng .) ( 35 mm .) 


383 - 74 ( 2 ) G . L . Bhardwaj, Bhar. G . L . Bhardwaj, Bom 

dwaj Films, 341- Tar - bay- 34 . 
dco , Bombay- 34. 


U 
74430 


B /71404 


" Tr, of Sujata ” (Hindi) 
(35 min .) 


96 .01(1 ) Ellora Films, 4 E . Naaz Bimal Roy Productions, 

Bldg., Lamington Mohan Studio , An - - 
Road , Bombay -4 . dheri, Bombay . 


4 - 3 - 74 


PART III- SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- - - - - - - - -- - - 


2171 


VAH 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


--- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


3 


TS 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


B /71425 


74431 


" Cace More Than Skin 
Deep " (Hindi) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm ) . 


29 - 26 ( 1) Durga Khote Produc - 

tions , Bombay , 


Durga Khote Produc- 

tions , Bombay , 


B / 71424 


29 . 26 (1) 


Do. 


74432 


" Flower 
(Hindi.) 
( 35 mm .) 


Shower " 
(Colour ) 


4 - 3 -73 


B -71423 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


Do. 


74433 


" Jadumantar " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm ) 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71422 


30 - 48 (1 ) 


Do. 


74434 


" The Common Factor " 
( Eng.) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


4 - 3 - 74 


B /71421 


30 - 48 (1 ) 


U 
74435 


Do. 


" A New Kind of For 
lunc Teller" (Eng .) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


43- 74 


B / 71405 


74436 


" Rescue Operation " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35 inın .) (USA ). 


30 -00 ( 1) United Film Makors Sholton Inc. 

311 - 12 , Himalay 
House , Palton Rd., 
Bombay - 1 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71403 


74437 


" To Serve Is To Love " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm . ) 


463 -60 ( 2 ) Mr. Zafar Hai, Cincrad Mr, Zafar Hai, Bom 

Communications , bay -400020 . 
Kshama Bhavan 37 
New Marino Lines , 
Bombay -400020 , 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 
74438 


B / 71419 


289 . 56 ( 1) 


“ Golden 
(English ) 
(35 mm .) 


Harvest" 
(Colour) 


K . S . Raju , M /s . Sri K . S . Raju , Bombay - 1. 
Proprietor, Green 
Stroct, Top floor, 
Bombay - 1 . 


4 - 3- 74 


U 
74439 


B /71434 


29 .87 ( 1 ) 


" Breath - Taking Ex 

perience " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


Television Radio and Television Radio and 
Motion Pictures ,6 - A , Motion Pictures , – 
Rashmi Carmichael Bombay-400026 . 
Road , Bombay 
400026 , 


4 - 3 - 74 


B /71420 


74440 


" Uncho Ghar Ki Shobha " 30 .48 ( 1) 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


Movie Centre , 12 - M . W . Mukadam 12 , 
Deopoli 7th Perry Deepoli 7th Perry - - 
Road , Bombay -50 . Road , Bombay -50 . 


4 - 3 -74 


U 
74441 


B / 71408 


P . E . 


" A Question of Idon 
tity " ( Eng.) (35 mm .) 


283 -77(1) Y . R . Khandekar, 5, Y .R . Khandekar. 

Sukhman L . J . Rd , 
Dadar, Bombay - 28 , 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71270 


P . E , 


“ The Good Earth " 
(English ) (35mm .) 


458 - 52 ( 2 ) S . N . Bhagwat, plot 17 Anand Chitravani Plot 7442 

Dosai Colony Mam - 17 Dosal Colony Malad , — 
lodarwadi Lane 6 , 

4 - 3 - 74 
Malad . 


U 
74443 


B / 71399 


29 .87(1) 


" Pure And Gentlo " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


M /s. Film 
Studios 
B - idgo, 
400007 . 


5 , Jyoti M /s . Film 5 , Jyoti 
Kennedy Studios Konnedy 
Bombay - Bridge, Bombay- 7. 


- 


7 


43 -74 


U 
74444 


B / 71406 


P . E . 


" Mittee Aur Urwark 
Chitramala Kran 
Sankhya 1 -Mittee 
Koo Parokh " (Hindi) 
( 35 mm .) 


411 -48 (1) P , C . Joshi, 25 Hospi- P . C . Joshi, New Delhi 

tal Rd., Jangpura , Now 110014 
Delhi- 110014 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71342 


74445 


" Turbulenco " (Eng .) 
(Col.) ( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


310 - 90 ( 1 ) Office of the Deputy M /s . Emeylopaodia Bri- 

Diroator Gonoral of tannica Educational 
Observatorios , Foro - Corporation . 
cast , Poona - 5 , 


- 


4 - 3 - 74 


5 — 369G1/75 


2172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) ( PART III - SEC. 4 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


1 


2 


- 


- - 


- 


B /71342 


74446 


" Wavos and 

(English ) 
(USA ). 


Fluids" 
( 16 mm .) 


365 - 76 ( 1) Office of the Deputy 

Director Gonoral of 
Observatory Porecast- 
ing, Poona-4 . 


M / S Emeylopaedia 
Britannica Educa - - 
tional Corporation . 


4 - 3 - 74 


B /71367 


74447 


" Bank Manager In 
Action No . 3 , Timo 
To Think " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm .) 
(U , K .) 


243 23 (3 ) AMA Educational Pvt. Rank Film Library . 

Ltd ., Canuda Bridgo , 
Bombay - 1. 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71384 


220 -00 (2 ) 


74448 


" The Leather Ball " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (USSR ) 


U .S .S . R . Consulate Kov Popular Scienco 
Gonoral, 42 - Nopean Film Studio . 
Sea Road , Bombay -6 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71385 


220 .00 (2 ) 


Do . 


Central Documentary 
Film Studios . 


74449 


" This is How The Cir 
cuş Bogins" ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 nim . ) 
(USSR .) 


4 - 3- 74 


U 


R /71340 


P . E . 


" Rotating Flows" 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


320 -04 (1) Office of the Deputy M /s . Emoylopaedia Bri 74450 

Director General of tannica Educational - - 
Obsoryatorics Fore - Corporation , 

4 - 3 - 74 
casting Poona - 5 


B /71363 


74451 


" Hand in Hand " 
(English ) (35 mm .) 


P . E . 


223 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Poddar of India , 24- Poddar - 
Road , Bombay-26 . Road, Bombay - 26 . 


4 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71386 - 91 


" Inventions of Pro 
Sekhey Alexandrov " 
( 16 mm .) (USSR ). 


109 .00 ( 1 ) U . S . S . R . Consulate 

General 42-Nepean 
Soa Road , Bombay -6 . 


Contial Documentary 
Film Studio . 


74452 ((Marathi, Gujarati, 

Punjabi, Tamil - 
4 - 3 -74 Telugu , Malaya 

lam versions.). 


U 


R /71483 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1325" ( 35 mm .) 


23000 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24- Peddar - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 


74453 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Assamese 
Oriya, Punjabi, 
Bengali, Kashmiri. 
and Urdu ver 
sions.) 


B /71484 


304 -00 (1) 


Do. 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1325 " (Southern 
Edition ) ( 33 mm ) 


74454 (Valid for English 

- Hindi, Tamil 
6 - 3- 74 Tolugu , Kannada 

Malayalam versious 


B / 71362 


288 - 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


74455 


“ Rythm of Agricul 
ture " (No Commen 
tary , Music Only ) 
(35 mm .) 


6 - 3 - 74 


B /71220 


" The Luxury of 
Crookes Lacto 
Calamino " (Colour) 
( 35 min .) 


U 
30 . 00 ( 1 ) Kumll Sharma, Wide- Kamla Sharma, Wide - 74456 

scrcon , 4 , Shirin , screen , 4 Shirin , - - 
Colaba, Bombay - 5 . Colaba, Bombay- 5 , 6 - 3-74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Bengali, 
Kannada, Mala 
yalam , Telugu & 
Tamil vorsions). 


B / 71331 


344 .00 ( 1) 


74457 


" Humboldt -Report & 
Roforonco " ( English ) 
( Colour) 16 (mm .) 
(FRG .) 


Consulate General of Dido Films, 
Federal Republic of 
Germany , Roman 
House, Bombay- 20 . 


7 - 3 -74 


B /71448 


Thomas Craven . 


U 
74458 


P . E . 


" Vision USA 19 " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA .) 


287 . 43 ( 1) United States Infor. 

mation Sorvice, 4 -New 
Marine Line, Bom 
bay - 20 . 


7 -3 - 74 


B /71131 


146 - 30 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Robort Foster. 


U 
74459 


P . E . 


" Scioncc Report 
146 - A ” (English ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


7 - 3 - 74 


- - - 


2173 
- = 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


PART III - SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
= = = = 

= - - - - - - -_ . - = = - - - - - - - = 
- - - - 

-- - - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


. 


-- - - - 


2 


6 


7 


- - - --- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


B /71314 


Robert 


Foster. 


74460 


P . E . 


" Science Report 
147- A " ( English ) 
(16 mm .) (USA ) 


147 . 52 (1 ) United States Infor: 

mation Service 4 -New 
Marine Line , Bom . 
bay -20 . 


7 - 3 - 74 


B /71315 


146 . 30 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


U 
74461 


Do. 


74461 P.E. 


" Scionce Roport 
147- B " (English) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


P . E . 


7 - 3 - 74 
U 
74462 Not P . E . 


33 /71394 


" Pushpa Ki Abhi 
lasha " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 


109 .42 ( 1) Chopra Films, 28 - Chopra Filnis, 28 

Gandhi Galli, Delhi-6 GandhiGali, Delhi-6 - 


7 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71263 


" Shivaji" 

(35 mm .) 


(Hindi) 


74463 Not P . E . 


669 -01( 3) National Education & National Education & 

Information , Films, Information Films, - - 
Ltd .. National Ltd ., Bombay. 
House, Tullach 
Road , Bombay , 


7 -4 - 74 


B /71497 


Badla " 
(Colour ) 


83 .00 (1) 


" Trailer of 
(Hindi) 
(35 min .) 


Century Films. 


R . C . Kumar, Cen - 
tury Film . 


74464 With triangle mark . 
7- 3 -74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 90 -00 
1. Reduce the scene ofmolestation of Asha deleting rolling of the two on the ground . — 2 . 00 m . 

Length retained : 3 .00 m .) 
2. Reduce shots of Nisha being manhandled by the hero where the upper part of her bare thighs is secn . - 2 -00 m . 

(Deleted completely .) 
Delete two hard hitting shots . --- 3 .00 m . 
Length of deletions : 7 .00 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 83 .00 m . 


B /71257 


11 


" Badla ” (Hindi) (Col.) 3772 -00 (17) Century Films, 146 - R . C , Kumar, Century 3218 
(35 mm .) 

Famous Cine Bldg., Films, 146 - Famous - - With trianglo mark , 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay- Cinc Bldg., Bombay. 7 - 3 - 74 

11. 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3848 -00 m . 

Cut Reel 
No . No, 

I : Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of young Raju addressed to his step mothor 

“ Tumhare baap ka nahin kliata hoon – 1 :00 m . 
2 . II ; Reduce the fight between Raju and Sharker s gang , by deleting bard hitting shots of blows and kicks 

on the chinand stomach . - 2 . 00 m . 

(Length retained : 16 .00 m .) 
Ill : Delete the shot of a participant drinking during Govinda procession . — 1 .00 m . 
IV : Delete the underlined word from the dialogue of Raju addressed to hoodlums : * Teri maan main 

bana kar chhodunga .” — 1 .00 m . 
VI : In the cabaret dance, delete close -ups of indecorous movements of midriff and bosoms of the girl. . 

1 .00 m . 
VII : Delete the dialogue of Randhir addressed to Asha before attempting molestation : " Bina sikho 

sasural jasogi to bhai ki badoamihogi." - 2 .00 m . 
VIIL 

Delete the shot of direct killing of a hireling ( Alleged to be police informer ) of Randhir in his den . 

100 m . 
X : In the cabaret dance , doleto the prominent shots of indecorousmovements of midriff and bosoms. 

3 . 00 m . 
XIII : Reduce considerably the fight between Raju and Pinto in Nisha s flat . - 6 . 00 m . 

( Length retained : 13 . 00 m . ) 
XIIJ : Reduce the impact of Nousha being killed by Randhir in close - range . - 1 . 00m 

(Length retained : Nil) (Completely deleted ) 
XIII : Delete the entire soquence of Randhir impersonating a doctor and strangulating Jagdish to doath to 

the hospital. - 23 .00 m . 
12 . XVII : Reduce the gun -battlo botweon the police and hirelings of Randhir including leletion of policemen 

being killed . Roduce the fight between Randhir and Raju and strangulation of Raju on boat and 
reduce their fight on hill top. - 32 . 00 m . 

( Length retained : 75 .00 m ) 


Length of deletions : 76 .00 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletionswill be : 3772 .00 m . 


2174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART 111 — SEC . 4 


- = 


- = 


- 


= 


= 


- 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


= 


. . 


- 


- 


ADJU - - 


(2 ) (3) 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 

B /71345 - 8 
Film : "Mr. Anchor" (English & Hindi) 
U -Cert. No.69231 of 23 -3- 1972 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam versions of the film in 
colour, Tho length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 6th 
March , 1974 , 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Jadu Bangsha (Bengali) 4 ,586 .00(17 ) Montage Films, 3 Montage Films 

2966 
(35 mm .) (India ). Saklat Placo, Cal- 13 , 

- With triangle mark 
4 - 3 - 74 


C /7969 


C /7969 

Film Jadu Bangsha (Bangali ) 
Endorsement - 

Original length44,609 . 75 m . 
Delete scenco showing crucifiod Christ and Sai Baba Lockot wherevor they occur , 23 . 75 ni 
Finallongth after above delotions will be 

. . 4 , 58600 m 
The film is partly coloured . The longth of coloured and black and white portions 

is as follows. 
(1) Length of coloured portions . . . . . . . . 

171 .00 m 
(li) Length of black & white portions. . . . . . . . 4 ,415 -00 m 

Total . . . 

4,586 .00 m 


C /7964 


73384 

- With trianglo Mark 
7 - 3 - 74 


Trailor of Lanija 160 . 02 (1 ) N . S . Films (Manipur ) G , Narayan Sharma 
Parshuram (Mani 

Prona Rd., Manipur, 
puri ) (35 mm .) ( India ). 

Imphal. 
Endorsement 
Original length - 162 45 m . 
Reduce strangulation of tho Woman to the burestminimum 

(LcDgth retajnod — 3 65 m ) 
Final longth after above reduction will be — 160 ·02 motres . 

MADRAS 


2 . 43m 


M /8170 


Appa Amma ( Tamil) 3940 . 20 ( 15) Simham Productions, Simbam Productions, 67452 
(35 mm .) ( B . & W .) 

Madras . Madras . 

- With quls . 
( India ). 

5 -3 - 74 
Endorsomont on cert. No. 67452 - U dt. 5 -3 -74 issued to the film Appa Amma ( Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

Longth applied — 4023 : 36 Mts . 
Curs. 

Metres 
1. Reel 3 - Delete tho fight with the rowdy . . . . . . . 45 . 10 
2 . Reeel 8 — Delete hitting sound in tho prison (Sound only ) . . . . 
3. Reel 11 - Delete Sadhu getting into the cupboard with the woman . . . 

1 :52 
4 , Reel 12 - Reduce to a flash the Sadhu molosting the wonian , particularly eliminat 
jag his action on the bed . (Retained - 2 : 13) . . . . . . 

1 : 52 
5, Reel 13 – Song 5 — Delete the action picturisod for the words " Swarga 

Vasal Thirakkattum " 

(Replaced shot approved 1 .82). 
6 . Reel 13 - - Reduce to a flash , the stabbing of a woman in the flash -back sequence, 
(Retained 10 -66 ) . . . . . . . . . . . 

0 .91 
7 . Reel 15 – Reduce tho holpless condition of the blind child wandering in dangerous 

region. (Rainu must bo brought to the child immediately sho is soon in the field ) 
( Retained 2438) . . . . . . . . . . 

11 :57 
8 . Reel 15 — Reduce the fight to its last stage in the don when the police tako action . 
(Retained - 68 . 87 ) 

. . . . . . . . , 22 54 


1 . 82 


Total 


84 .98 


Total replacement 1 .82 Metres . Actual length of film will be 3940 20 Mejres in 15 Reels, 


PART III — Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2175 


6 


U 


M /8458 


‘Kai Niraya Kasu 3972 14 (16 ) Arunodaya , Mysore Alunodaya ,Myrore 67453 
( Tamil ) ( 35 mm . ) 

– With cuts . 
B . & India ) 

5 - 3 -74 
Endorsoment on cort. No. 67453 -U , dt. 5 - 3- 74 issued to the film Kai Niraya Kasu ( Tamil) 35 nm . B . & W . 

Length applied 3972 . 14 Motros , 
Cuts. 
Reel 8 — In song 3 , deleto the lines “ Enn Meni Pallakkil Unn Meni Chendral Enna ? " 

and also tho shot of dancer on stool with parted logs giving movement of forward 
thrust of crotch . (Roplaced shot ofThandavan - 0 .91 and approved words in song ) 0 .91 


Mrs. 


Total 


0 - 91 


Actual length of film remains the same, namely 3972 14 Metres in 16 Reels . 


M /8470 


91 . 44 ( 1 ) 


Radhanadhav Movios , Rudhamadhav Movics 
Madras, 

Madras. 


67454 


Trailer of Sthree 
Gowrayam ( Tolugu ) 
( 35 mm ) (B . & W .) 
(India ). 


5 - 3 - 74 


U 
67455 


M /8463 


Ammayi Poll ( Telugu ) 
(35 mm ) (B . & W .) 
(India ). 


4743 .00 ( 17) Bharani Combincs, . . Bharani Combines , 
Madras, 

Madras , 


5 -3 - 74 


U 


M / 8462 


Thaai ( Tamil) ( 35mm .) 4517 .74 (17) Babu Movies ,Maciras. Babu Movios ,Madras. 67456 
(B . & W .) (India ), 

- - With cuts . 

6 - 3 -74 
Endorsement on cert. No , 67456 - U dt. 6th March 1974 - issuod to film Thaai (Tamil) 35 mm . B . & W . 

| Length applied _ 4558 : 56 Metros. 
Cuts. 

Metres 
1. Reel 3 - Delere Minor s sentenco to Sivagami, Neeyum Naayum Chinna Pillaya 

Irukkumpodhu Noo Gown Illamoy , Nanan Trouser Illamoy 
Vilayadaloy , Appa Illadha Votkam Ippo Ennathukku " 

4 .56 
2 Reel 5 - Reduce Minor molosting Kavorito a suggestion , deleting his pulling 

off hor uppor garmont . (No objection to the scene being rotained after the 
arrival of Anandan on thoscono.) (Retaincd 15 -24 ) 

5 .78 
Cuts . 

Metres 
3. Reel 7 – From tho dance is hotol on BGM , delete the following. - (u ) the dancor 

shaking hor pointed breasts over the face of Anandan , (Roplacod Kumar closc 
up - 2 . 43 ) . . . 

2 -43 
(b ) the portion of the shot of the dancer on floor raising her bare leg to a sido 
(Roplacod Kumar & orchestra - 2 - 43 ) , 

2 . 43 
4 . Reel 8 - From the toxt of song 3 boginning with words " Nanu Parthalum Par 

thendi," delete the following five lines " Koovathiley Kaasai Alli Pottiruk 
kanga ; Kooda Oru Mudhalayaum Vittirukkangam , Thundu Poita Manushanga 
Ellam Sutthikirangamma-- Indha Naataikkoodā Thundu Poda Ennikkviran 

gamina." (Sound only replaced approved words ) 
5 . Reel 15 -- Delete the entire sequenco of Minor with a poster telling Papamma about 

tho illicit lovo and other dialoguos till Papamma throwsmilk on his face , , 3048 


Total . 


, 


45 68 


M /8447 


Total replacoment 4 .86 Mets. Actual length will be - 4517 .74 Mers . in 17 Reels , 

U 
“ Nathoon 
Nathoon (Malaya - 
(Mala 

4562- 54 (17) Malithara Productions, Shri Abdulla , Madras, 67457 
lam ) (35 mm .) (B . Madras . 

-- With cuts. 
& W .) ( India ). 

6 -3 -74 
Endorsement on cort, No , 67457- U dt, 6 - 3 - 74 isşucd 10 the film Nathoon ? (Malayalam ) 35 min . B . & W . 

Length - 4567 10 Motros . 
Cuts 

Merres 
Reel 16 – Reduce molostation on Ponnamm . to a suggestion - Dolering tho action 

pulling the sari and falling together on the cot. (Retained 5 .47 ) . . 4 .56 


Total 


. 


4 56 


Actual length of the film will be -- 4562 -54 Mts . In 17 Reels . 


2176 

- - - 
- - - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III - SEC. 4 
- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 


_ 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


2 


3 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


M /8455 


M /8439 


With cuts, 


Madarasi Petra Manic 3962 40(17 ) Das Enterprisos,Madras. Das Enterprises, Madras. 67458 
kam ( Tamil ) (35 min .) 
B . & W . ( India .). 

6 - 3 - 74 

U 
Idu Namma Desha 3299 - 30 ( 14 ) Devar Pictures, Banga. Devar Picturos, Banga 67459 
(Kannada ) (35 mm .) 

loro , 

loro . 
B . & W . ( India ). 

7 - 3 -74 
Endorsement on cert. No. 67459 - U , dt. 7th March 1974 - issued to tho film Idu Namma Desha 

(Kannada ) 35 mm . 
Longth applied — 3308 :57 Motros . 
Cuts. 

Metes 
1 . Reell Delete action of polico officor striking the girl , , , , 

2 . 58 
2. Reel 13 - Delete shot of the child tied to the revolving whool . 

6 .69 


Total 


9 - 27 


Actual length of the film will be - 3299, 30 Meteres in 14 reels 


M / 8421 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Film 


U 
67460 


Arogya Rahasiam 

( Tamil) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm .) (India ). 


Media, Bombay . Shri Jyoti G . Thakur, 

Bombay. 


7 - 3 - 74 

U 
67461 


M /8422 


30 .48 (1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Chalakı Pillalu 
(Tolugu ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 


7 - 3 -74 

U 
67462 


M /8423 


30 .48 (1) 


Payrige Pillolu 
( Telugu ) (Colour) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


7 - 3 - 74 


M /8424 


30 - 48 ( 1) 


67463 


Boloyuwa Makkalu 
(Kannada ) ( Colour ) 
(35 min .) (India ). 


7 -3 - 74 

U 
67464 


M /8425 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


Jana Makkalu (Kan 
nada ) (Colour ) (35 
mm .) (India ) . 


7 - 3 - 74 

U 
67465 


M /8426 


30 -48(1) 


Midukkaraya kuttigal 
(Malayalam ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 


7 - 3 - 73 


M /8427 


30 .48 ( 1) 


67466 


Nalla Arogyatinte 
Rahasyam (Malyalam ) 
(Colour ) 35mm . Indja . 


7 - 3 - 74 


M /8428 


Do . 


M / 8457 


Valarum 30 , 48 ( 1 ) 

67467 
Kutigal (Malyalam ) 
Colour 35mm , India . 

7 - 3 - 74 

U 
Keep it Clean 

175 , 55 ( 1 ) Lucas Indian Shevice C . A . V . Ltd ., London , 67468 
(English ) (Colour) 

Ltd ., Madras . 

U . K . 
16mm , UK 

7 - 3 . 74 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATE BY THE CENTRAL 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE 
WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH , 1974, 

BOMBAY 


U 
74465 


B /71535 


- Top Man " ( English 
(Colour ) (35ınm . ) 


37 . 19 (1 ) Amrit Arts , Vishwes - Amrit Arts , Vishwe 

hwar Mandir , T , H . shwar Mandir , T . H . 
Kataria Rd., Mahim Kataria Rd., Mahim , 
Bombay - 16 . 

Bombay - 16 . 


11- 3 -74 


B / 71539 


271 88(1) 


Do. 


U 
74466 Not. P , E . 


Do . 


" Iniharu Kina Sukhi 
Chhan " (Nepali ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


11 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71541 


75 . 59(1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74467 P . E . 


" Chara -Ko -Updesh " 
(Nepali) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


11- 3 - 74 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART IN — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - 

- - 


2177 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


4 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


B /71540 


74468 


P . F . 


" Shantan - Ko- Chahna " 
(Nepali) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) 


52 . 12 ( 1 ) Amrit Arts , Vishweshwar 

Mandir, T . H , Kataria , Rd ., Mahim , 
Bombay - 16 


11 - 3 - 74 

U 
74469 


B / 71409 


" Trailer of " Chudi 
Chandlo " (Gujarati) 
(35mm .) 


111 . 56 ( 1 ) M /s . Lux Films, Ka - M /s Chetan Chitra . 

thok Lodge , Main 
Rd., Dadar, Bombay - 14 . 


11 - 3 -74 

U 
74470 


B /71463 


30 - 40 ( 1) 


" On The Fashion 
Scene" (Hindi) (Co 
(lour ) (35min .) 


Mafatlal Group of Indra Bilani United 
Mills , 2 , Scindia Film Makers , 311- - 
Housc , Janpath , New 12 , Himalaya House 
Delhi, 

Palton 

Road , 
Bombay -400001, 


11 - 3 - 74 


U 


Đ / 71438 - 39 

46 - 47 


223 . 00 (2 ) 


" In To The World of 
Wonders " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm . ) 
(USSR ) 


U . S . S . R . Consulato Georgian Popular 
Goneral 42 , Nepean Science & Documen - — 
Sea Road , Bombay -6 . tary Film Studio . 


74471 ( Valid for Hindi, 

Marathi & Gujarati 
11 - 3 -74 versions. 


B / 71449 


Soviet 


280(1) 


Do. 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


U 
74472 


" Around Tho Soviet 
Union No . 102 " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (USSR ) 


11- 3 -74 


B /71455 


262 (1 ) 


Do. 


U 
74473 


" Russian Lace" 
( English ) (Colow ) 
(35mm . ) (USSR .) 


U . S , S , R . Consulato 
General, 42 -Nepean 
Sea Road , Bombay -6 . 


11 - 3 - 74 

U 
74474 


B /71453 


279(1) 


DO. 


Do . 


Do . 


" How Tho Donkey 
Saught Happiness " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) (USSR .) 


11 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71392 


“ Young Artisans " 
( Eng.) ( 35mm .) 


74475 


P . E . 


292 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Dlyision , Goyt. 

of India , 24 Poddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 
Roud , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay- 26 . 


11 - 3 - 74 


B /71393 


" Growing Groundout 
(English ) (35mm .) 


286 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74476 


P . E . 


11 - 3 -74 


U 


B / 71416 


463 .00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


74477 Not P . E . 


" Royal Visitors From 
Nepal" ( English ) 
( 35mm . ) 


11 - 3- 74 


U 


B /71457 


" Trailer of ” Dur Nahin 
Manzil " (HINDI) 
( Col. ) ( 35mm .) 


82 . 91 ( 1 ) Hari Valia , Mahosh Hari Valia , Mahesh 

Villa , Worli, Bombay , Villa , Worli, Bombay , - 


74478 


11 - 3 - 74 


B / 71482 


74479 


“ Trailer of Do Chat 
tano" (Hindi) (Col.) 
( 35mm .) 


91 - 44 ( 1 ) Appollo International Joginder , 12 - Ksara , 240 

12- Ksara , 240 Pali Pali Rd., Bandra , 
Rd., Bandra , Bombay - Bombay - 50 . 
50 . 


12 - 3 - 74 


U 
74480 


B /71480 


91 - 14 


" Trailer of Khote 

Sikkay " (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35mm .) 


Happy Films, Dhun 

Villa , Varsova Rd., 
Andheri-61 . 


N . D . Kothri, 7 / 1 Air 
Conditioned Market – 
Bombay- 34 . 


12 - 3 - 74 

U 
74481 


B / 71595 


" Indian News Roview 
No . 1326 " ( 35mm ) 


231 - 3441) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24-Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


13 - 3 -74 


(Valid for English . 

Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kannada, 
Malayalam , As 
samese, Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali, 
Kashmiri & Urdu , 
varsions.) 


U 


B /71596 


06 


300 - 53 (1) 


Do 


D 


Do. 


o. 


74482 (Vali 


" Indian News Revicw 
No. 1326 " (Western 
Edition ) ( 35mm .) 


74482 (Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Marathi, 
13 - 3 - 74 Gujarati & Sin 

dhi. Versions. ) 
U 
74483 


B /71576 - 77 " Maharashtra Nows 

No . 261" (Marathi 
& (Hindi) (35mm .) 


259 . 00 ( 1 ) The Director General The Director General 

of Infonation & of Information & 
Public Relations, Public Relations , 
Govt , of Maharashtra . Govt. of Maharashtra . 


13 - 3 - 74 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


2178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III- SEC. 4 
- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


5 


B /71216 


-11. 


U 
" Trailer of Vada Tera 79 . 90 (1 ) Vashdev Shroff , Vashdoy Shroff , 74484 With triangle mark , 
Vada " (Hindi) (Col 

Thakkar Films In - Thakkar Films In - - 
our ) (35mm .) 

ternational, 149 - ternational, 149 . 13- 3 -74 
Famous Cine Bldg , Famous Cine Bldg , 
Mahalaxmi, Bombay Mahalaxmi, Bombay 

11. 
Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 83 . 52mn , 

1. Delete the superimposed title " Love & Lust and killing of bird with a running fan , - 0 .65m . 
2. Delete the reply of a stranger in bod addressed to the girl “ Raat gujar gai , aaj baat bhibhool gayce memsaab " 

- -0 -65m . 
3 . Reduce by half tho slaps given by Danny to anothor man . — 0 . 54m . 

( Length retained : 1 . 12 m .) 
4 . Delete the remark of heroine “ Abortion ke liyo nahl" addressed to her friend when he suggests about his 

friondship with doctors. — 0 .65 m . 
5 . Delete a flirtatious -type of girl addressing heroine : " Main wo bewaqooph ladkiyongo nahi hoon main jaanati 

hoon , main yohan kis liye nayce hoon " , when she is found in tho company of her lover .-- - 1 - 13 m . 
Length of deletions : 3 .62 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 79. 90m . 


B /53963 


po 


grans 2013 

-6502 


" America Paese Di 2919 . 65 ( 12) Educational Films of Titanus International. 74485 P . E . With trianglo 
Dio " ( English ) India , Division of 

- mark , 
(Colour) (35min .) Film Library Pvt., 

15 - 3 -74 
(Italy ) 

Ltd ., 190 D . N . Rd ., 

Bombay- 1. 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 3048 .00m . 

Cut Reel 
No, No . 
VI Delete all shots of girls with bare bosoms and with thinly covered blouse on their bosoms shown in 

the restaurant. - 18 . 90m . 
2 . VII : Delete all shots of the torture of the calf of dragging it, branding it with red hot iron and clipping 

and sawing off its horn . - 52 - 43 m . 
3 . X : (i) Delete shots of (a ) dance of topless girls 5 . 91m . (b ) parading of two scantily cladgirls with part 

of their bošoms and posteriors discernible and 2 .61m . (c ) Close shot of girls flipping their scan 

tily covered posteriors 3 . 77 m . 
( ii ) Reduce considerably tho sequence of the Carnival of angels deleting : 

(a ) their bouts with tho police 2 .04 m . 
(b ) tho shot of the angel riding a motorcycle and there after immediately falling from it.. 

5 . 22 m . 

(c ) the shot of blood smoared face of an anglo . — 8 .03 m . 
4 . XI : (a ) Delete shot of a boatle pouring winc on the navel of a girl and another sipping it off. - 5 .79 m . 

(b ) Roduce prolonged kissing between a boy and a girl sitting on the shoulders of the beatles.- 9 .44m 

- 9 .44m . 
(c ) Delete shot of a boatle caressing the posterior of a girl and kissing her. - 4 .02 m . 
(d ) Delete the following words as spoken by a slogan monger : " LBJ ; how many pcople you have 

killed " ? 5 . 19m . 
Length of deletions : 123 .35m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletion will be : 2919 .65 m , in 12 reels. 


U 


B /71430 


74486 


" Vasant-One" (Mara - 
thi) (Colour) (33mm ) 


98 . 16 ( 1) Cinema Workshop , Cinema Workshop , 

National House , National House, 
6 - Tulloch Road , 6 - Tulloch Road , 
Bombay -400039 . Bombay - 400039 . 


15 -3 - 74 


B / 71418 


194 . 00 (1 ) 


" A Vital Docision " 
( Engligh ) (35mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Poddar of India , 24- Peddar - 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


U 
74487 P . E . 
15 -3 -74 


U 


B / 71575 


“ Trailor of Kshitij" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


71 63 (1 ) Roopkamini Inter - Roopkamini Intor 74488 

nitional, 5 - F Nuaz national. 5 - F Nuaz - 
Bldg ., Lamington Bldg., Lamington 15 -3 - 74 
Road , Bombay 4 , Bombay , Road ,-4 


- 


- - ~ 


- 


- 


- - 


2179 


PART III - SEC . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 

--- - - - - -- - - -- - - -- -- - - - = = = = 


- 


- 


+ 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


4 - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


U 


B /71479 


199 -85 (1) Hindustan Aeronau . Louis A 

lics Limited . Bombay Associates. 


Allen 


74489 


P . E . 


" Programming, Schc 
duling Proceodures , 
Budgoting , Planning " 
(English ) (16mm .) 
(UK .) 


15- 3 -74 


B /71478 


191 -93 (1) 


" Delegating Respon 
sibility & Athority 
(English ) (16ınm .) 


U 
74490 

- 
15 - 3 - 74 


P.E . 


B /71477 


204 .12 ( 1 ) 


204-120) 


Do. 


Do . 


74491 


" Establishing Effec 
tive Working Re 
lationships" (Ēnglish ) 
(16nun .) 


15 - 3 - 74 


B /71476 


210 -83 (1) 


74492 


" Process of Manage 
ment " (English ) 
( 16mm .) (UK .) 


15 - 3 -74 

U 
74493 


B /71475 


“ Motivating" (English ) 

( 16mm .) (UK ) 


188 -67 (1) llindustan Aeronau - 

tics Lid . 


Louls A 
Associates . 


Allen 


P . E . 


15 - 3 -74 

U 
74494 


B /71498- 

71503 


" I Want To Be A 
Worker " (35mm .) 
(Colour ) 


508 .00 (2 ) U . S . S. R . Congulate Central Documentary 
General. 

Film Studio , 


16 - 3- 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati , Punjabi 
& Telugu versions .) 


B / 71504 -11 


112 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


112.00(1) 


B/71504-11 " Argunder the Soviet 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No. 99 " ( Col 
our ) (16mm . ) (USSR ) 


Do. 


Do. 


Do 


_ 7495 Valid for English, 
163-74 


74495 ( Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
16 - 3 - 74 Gujarati, Punjabi, 

Tamil , Telugu 

& Malayalam " 
versions.) 


U 


B /71512- 19 


222 .00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do, 


" Ostankino " (Colour) 
(16mm .) (USSR .) 


74496 


16 - 3 - 74 


(Valid for English , 
Hladi, Marathi, 
Bongali, Punjabi, 
Tolugu , Kannada 
& Malayalam 
vorsions .) 


B /70059 


3219 With triangle mark . 


15 - 3 - 74 


" Kora Bidan " (Hindi) 3657 . 60 ( 14 ) Brar Productions , 11 , Boota Singh Shaad , 
(Colour) ( 35mm .) 

Surang Hotel, San - 11, Surang Hotel, -- 
tacruz , ( W ) 

Santacruz, ( W ) 
Bombay- 54 . 

Bombay -54 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3721-28 

Cut Reel 
No. No . 


1. I 


2. 11 
3. TV 


4 . 


V 


: Delete the lip to chook proximity between Mahesh and Neelam as occured twice during the song. 

- -- 2 : 35 . m . 

(Length replaced : 2 - 35 m .) 
: Delete the suggestion of kiss between Mama and Champa in bed , 4 -29 m . 
: Reduce the passionate gestures ofMoena in bod with Mahesh , as seen in her imagination , 8 .69 m . 

(Length relaineil : 5 .35 m .) 
: (a ) Delete the suggestion of kiss between Mahesh and Neelam before they go off thescreen . - 2 .05 
(b ) Reduce the cabaret dance , deleting tho indecont close view of bust jerkingmovements , and 

also tho indecont movements of the hip hy the dancer.-- 8 - 34 m , 

(Replaced with approval shots : 8 - 34 m .) 
: (a ) Reduce drastically love making scene between Meena and Mahesh as imagined by her , and her 

reactions on the bol, kccping only a suggestion for establishing her passion for him . - 11 .04 m . 

(Length retainer : 2 -66 in .) 
(b ) Reduce the indecorous and passionate gestures of Mecna during the song " Meri jawani . . . ." 

and immginod by hor. - - 14 . 39 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots 14 - 39 .) 
( Length retained : 15 .87 m .) 


5 . 


Vi 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


6 - 369GI/ 75 


2180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III _ SEC . 4 


! 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


6. VI : Reduce suitably the fight between Mahesh and the bald man , including the close view of neck being 

pressed down with a stick . – 3 . 77 m . 

(Length retained ; 20 . 11 m .) 
7 . VII : Delete the sentence “ Kutch humse bhi dhulwa lo " as spoken to Champa by Mama, as also tho 

suggestivo sound of whistling by Mama when she walks towards him . - 1 . 52 m . 
VII ; (a ) In the rape scene of Champı, reduce the panting and short breathing by her. 0 . 39 m . 

(Deleted completely ) 
(6 ) Reduce the fight botween Mahesh . Taxiwala and his men and also delete the sound effect of 

stabbing - - 2 . 98 m . 

( Deleted completely). 
9 . IX ; Roduce to a Mash tho superimposed viow of a man being fragged by horse during the raid by dacoits . 

- 0 . 91m . 

(Length retained : 0 . 91 m .) 
10 . IX : Delete the dialogues of Lalaji to his wife with reference to " Ghanti bajana" etc . 6 . 44 m . 
11. X : Delete the dialogues between the two comedians : 

" Tum ghodi ban , Mçin upar chhadta hoon " 
" Sambalna , main upar chhad roha hai" 
" Yahan nahin , upar chhad " 

" Abe teri, . . . . . . . " otc. 1 .65 m . 
12 . X : Delete the flashes of lip to check proximity between Mahesh and Neelam ag seen hy her in her 

imagination .- 9 .33 m . 
13. XI : Delete the vicw of Maki Sinha pointing towards her breasts on the word " Doodh" In the beginning 

of the song. - 2 . 50 m . 

(Roplaced with upprovedl shots : 2 . 50 m .) 
14 . XII : (a ) Delete the gestures of comedian making water and also the dialoguo " Jagah bh godi" and 

" upar ko aa raha hai" , 6 .40 m . 

(b ) Delete the referenco to " Ram in comparison with daku 1 . 28 m . 
15 . XIV : In the fight reduce tho gonerul fight and also the views of hitting on the stomach and hitting with the 
butt of the gun , - 2 . 94 m . 

Length of Deletions : 91 -26 m . 
Length of Approved replacement : 27 - 58 m . 
Actual Length of the Film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3657 -60 m . 


B /71460 


" Gooni" (Hindi) 3701 - 50 (15 ) Sangam Films, Ashir A . V . Mohan , Sangam 3220 With triangle mark , 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 

wad , AA Vithal Filing Bombay - 56 . 
Nagar, Society , 10th 

15 - 3 -74 
Rd., Juhu , Bombay -56 . 
Endosedoment 

Original Length : 3727. 71 m . 
Cut No . Reel No. 
1 . III ; Delete kissing betwecn Meena and Raju during the picturisation of song. - 0 .80 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 . 80 m .) 
2 . IX : Reduce considerably the entire scene of Rakesh and Meena making love in bod . - 15 .54 m . 

( Length retained : 41 -45 m .) 
3 . XV : In the fight, deleto ghots of hard hitting, kicks on the chin and prominent view of blood smeared 

facc 10 -67 m . 
Length of deletions : 27 .01 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 0 .80 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he : 3701 50 m . in 15 reels, 
Endorsement Under rule 34 . 

B /71464 
Film : " Orange Fxplosion " ( English ) 
U -Cert. No, 74385 of 19- 2- 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film , The length of the film remains unchanged. This cert 

ficate was endorsed on 11th March , 74 . 
B /71465 
Film : " Narungi Inquilab ” (Hindi) 

U -Cert. No. 74370 of 16 -2 - 1974 
This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Telugu versions of the film in colour, The length of the film remains 

unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 13th March , 1974 . 

- - - - - - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2181 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5 


B /71578 - 9 
Film : " Top Man " ( English ) 
U -Cert. No. 74465 of 11-3 -1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Hindi and Bengali versions of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 

unchanged , 
This certificate was endorsed on 13th March , 19741 
B / 70679 
Film " Mehamaan " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U -Cert. No. 73819 of 13- 11 - 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 44 .48 m . 
Actuul length of the nlm after the aforosaid Jeletions will be : 178 -42 m . 
This certificate was endorsed on 15 - 3- 74 . 

WEEK ENDING 16TH MARCH , 1974 

CALCUTTA 


C / 7882 


U 
73385 P . E . 


& 


Mopin 
(Colour) 
India . 


(English ) 
( 16 mm .) 


Devjani Chaliha 
Associates . 


121 . 92 ( 1) Devjani Chaliha & 

Associates, P - 20 , Golf 

Club Road , Ca )- 33 , 
MADRAS 


12 - 3 -74 


U 
67469 


M /8488 


" Vartha Chitra 28 
(Kannada ) ( 35 mm . ) 
( B & W ) India 


242 31(1 ) Director of Informa - Director of Informa 

tion & Publicity , tion & Publicity , 
Bangalore 

Bangalore , 


12 - 3 - 74 


M /8489 


243 .84 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


* Vartha Chitra 29 

(Kannada ) ( 35 mm .) 
( B & W ) India . 


Do. 


67470 


1970 


12 - 3 - 74 


M /8436 


Kode Naagu ( Telugu) 4216 .60 ( 16 ) Rajondra Prasad Shri M . S . Reddy, 67471 With cuts. 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

Combincs , Madras . Madras. 
India , 

12 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on Cert. No . 67471-U , dt . 12th March 1974 issued to the film Kode Naagu (Telugu) (Colour). 
Length applied : 4265 .00 m . 
Cuts. 

Metros. 
1 . Reel 3 – Delete Nagaraju actually throwing stones at the Principal s house 1 .52 
2. Reel 5 - In the lighting scene between Nagaraju and Salcem , delete 

Nagaraju kicking on the chest of Saleem with his boot when 
Saloer is down lying flat on the ground . . 

2 : 58 
3. Reel 6 – Delete Varadachari s sentence " Padma Shri birudu ivvalainde " 
referring to Julie . 

1 .97 
4 . Reel 13 – Delete the dialogues of Sanyasya and his two friends beginning 
from " Mugguram vunnamu." upto Swadesh aaruke better . 

10 .81 
5 . Reel 14 From the picturisation of song " Katha Vinduya " , delete Amruta 

valli s husband pushing her into a room and later the sequence 
in the room where a customer pushes her on bed and falls 

over her on bed . (Replaced atmosphere shou : (6 . 09 ). . . 6 :09 
6 . Recl 16 - Reduce to bare minimum shots of bodies of Nagaraju and 

Julic with prominently scen blood stains after they leep to 

death . 
7. Reel. 16 - Delete hc close- shot of teacher Rama Sarma s blood stained 

face . . . 
Total replacement 6 .09 Mts . in Rcel 14 Voluntary deletion in Total 54 .49 
Rcel 10 & 11 27 . 12. - 


4 :40 


Approved replacement : 27 -12 mts . 
Actual length is 4216 -60 metres in 16 Reels . 


M / 8468 


U 
67472 


Balarana Srce 
Krishna (Kannada ) 
colour (35 m .in . India . 


5148 - 36 (20 ) Sankar Art Films, 

Vijayawada 


Shri K . Giri Sankara 
Rao , Vijayawada , 


12 - 3 -74 


M / 8473L0 
M /8476 


137 . 16 ( 1) Ramu Kariat & 

Associates , Madras , 


U 
Ramu & Kariat 

67473 
Associates , Madras . - 

- P . E . 
15 - 3 -74 


Ungal Ellorukkum 
Oru Nalla Thittam 
( Tamil , Telugu , 
Kannada and 
Malayalam ) 35 mm . 
( Colour), India. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 
- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


2182 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [Part III — SEC . 4 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- = = 

- - - - - - 
3 
- - - 

U 
M / 8492 . * Tamilnadu Govt. 305 . 00 (1) Tho Directorato of Thc Directorato of 67474 
Regional News 

Information and Information and — 
Bulletin 112 ( Tamil) 

Public Relations, Public Relations, 15 - 3 -74 
35mm , B & W India 

Madras , 

Madras. 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE Weak ending 23rd March 1974 

BOMBAY 


B / 71303 


14497 


74497 


" Dare The Sun " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


30 .48 ( 1) Keith Allams (M / s. Keith Allams (Ms. 
ΚΑΡΡΑ ) 

1 - A KAPPA ) Bombay - 50 
Monisha , 
Andrew s Road , 
Bandra , Bombay - 30 


18 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71436 


95 . 71(1 ) Image India 

Pyt. Ltd ., 


films 


Peter Von Zahn & Uwe 
Krauss. 


74498 


P . E . 


" Operation Environ 
mont" (Einsatzort ; 
Umwelt) (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
( W . Germany) 


18 - 3- 74 


B /71365 


" Chor Machaye Shor" 3996 -53 (15) N . N . Sippy, 4 - B , N , N . Sippy, 4 -B 74499 With triangle mark 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Naaz Building, Lami- Naaz Building , Lani- - 
(35mm .) 

ngton Rd. Bombay -4 ngton Road , Bombay -4 18 -3 -74 
Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 4097 .93 m . 

Cut No. Reel No . 
1. 11 : Delete the impression of a kiss between Vijay and Rekha during the picturisation of song. . 0 .69m . 

(Replaced with approved shots ; 0 .69 m .) 
2 . III : Dialogue pertaining to Maharaja s daughtor doing cabaret dance in hotel may be changed as it 

is likcly to be considered derogatory . (Replaced with approved words) (Deleted sound only ) . 
3. IV : Delete the word Saale whiçn Raju and Fulwa make reference to the administration of jail. 

( Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approved words) . 
4. IV : Delete the kiss botween the Vijay and Rekha at the end of the reel.- 1 .53 m . 
VII : During the scenc Jannadas discuss his election strategy with hirelings , delete the impression 

of Jannadas fighting election for a particular party because his hirelings aro wearing Khadi and 
Gandhi caps and appear to belong to a well known political party . ( Impiession has been removed 

by adding approved words) . 
6 . VII : Delete the impression of kiss between Vijay and Rekha . — 0 .69 m . 
7 . VIII : Reduced the fight between Vijay s gang and dacoits . — 7 .40 m . (Length retained : 42 -36 m .) 
8 . IX : Delete the prontinent vicws of the nude picture on thọ back of Fulwa . — 7 . 54 m . (Replaced with 

approved shots 1 : 26 m .) 
IX : (a ) Delete all prominent close ups of Chandramukhi s breust as seen by Raju and his gang 

2 . 44 m . 
(b ) Delete the Raju s suggestive dialogue of Chandramukhi : “ . . . . Palangpar," (Deleted sound 

only ) (Replaced with approved words). 
(c) Delete the dialoguo about sharing of the girl by all and Fulwa s dialogue “ Ustad ko baad hum .. " 

and its, repetition . - 11 - 12 m . 
x . Delete suggestion of a kiss between Raju and Chandramukhi. Also delete the scene of Raju 

untying her blouso . -- - 3 . 01 m . 
11. X : Reduce the fight between Vijay and Raju in particular deleting Vijay s hard hitting blows on Raju s 

stomach and chin . - 7 .51 m . (Length retained : 34 . 31 m .) 
12 . XII : In the scene of Jamnadas where he is showing the replace of golden statue to a foreigner, reduce 

the scene to the minimuin by keeping only a shoit reference . - 5 . 92 m . (Length retained : 31 - 37 m .) 
13 . XII : Reduced considerably the beating of ducoits by Vijay . - 9 . 89 m . (Length retained : 14 .02 m .) 
14 . XIV : (1) Reducod considerably the gun -battle between dacoits and Vijay s gang . - - 5 - 58 in . (Longth 

retained : 6 :37 m .) 
XV ( ii ) Delete the shots of bullets bursting one the back of dacoils.- - 1 .08 m . 


XVI 


(11) Reduce to a Hash the shots of dragging of Raju behind a horse. - 1 .03 m . (Length retained : 

1 . 40 in .) 
(iv ) Reduce drastically the scene of Ruju and his gang being hanged by their feet retaining only 

a small fish for suggestion . - 17 . 12 . (Replaced with approved shots : 0 .47 m . ) (Longth 

retained : 9 .03 m .) 
( v ) Delete the reinarks of Janinades with referenco to the heroine " Usko nangi kar do " , 0 . 52 m 
(vi) Reduce considerably the dragging of two dacoits behind a horse by retaining only one small 

fash , - 2 -63 m . (Length retained : 2 .07 m .) 
(vii) Reduce sconsiderably the hand to hand fight kicks and blows : 16 :07 m . (Length retained ; 

18 . 50 m .) 


1 


PART III — SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- J - - - = - - - -- -- 

- - = = - - - - - - -- 


2183 


- H 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


( viii) Delete the shot of Ruju s blood smeared hand from where he puts a blood tika ( in his forc 

hcad and delete the subsequent shots of lius show ing the blood smearcd hand to Rekha. -- 

9 .42m . (Replaced with approved shots - 6 : 37m 
Length of deletions : 110 .19 m . 
Length of approved replacement - : 8 . 79 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid allcrations will be : 3995 .53 in 15 recls. 


Bj714 . 35 (1 ) 


74500 


218 . 54 

( 1 ) 


Image India Filins, 
Pvt. Ltd ., Bombay . 


Pctci yon Lahn & 
Uwe Krauss . 


Not P . E . 


18 - 3 - 74 


Mercedes-Benz 
Builds 

Cars 
(Mercedes Benz 
Baut Auts ) (English ) 
( 16 mm .) ( colour ) 
( W . Germany) . 


B / 71526- 33 


220 . 00 (2) 


" Blues Are Attack 

(Colour ) 
( 16 min .) 
(USSR ) 


USSR Consulate 
General - 2 


Central Popular 
Science Studio , 


ing " 


B / 71589 - 94 


" Adventuros of the 
cucumber " (Colour ) 
( 16 mm ) (USSR ). 


111 . 00 ( 1 ) USSR Consulalc Ge- Soyuozmult F Im Slu 
neral Bombay . 

dio . 


U 
74601 (Valid 

for 
- Marathi, Hindi 
19 - 3 - 74 Gujarati Punjabi, 

Tamil, Malayalam , 
Telugu , & Bengali 

versions) 
U 
74602 ( Valid for Gujarati, 

- Punjabi, Bongali , 
19 - 3 - 74 Telugu , Kannada & 

Mulyalım , ver 

sions .) 
U 
74603 (Valid for Gujarati, 

Hindi, Marathi, 
19 - 3 - 74 Bengali, Tamil, To 

lugu , Malayalam 
& Kannada yer 
sions.) 


112 . 00 ( 1) 


Do. 


hot 


B /71564- 71 “ Around The Soviet 

Union No. 94 " ( Col.) 
(USSR ) ( 16 mtr ). 


Contral Documentary 
Film Studio . 


B /71580 


111 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74604 


" Around The Soviet 

Union No . 97 " ( Te 
lugu ) (Colour) (16 
inm ). 


19 - 3 - 74 


B / 71640 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1327 " (3 5nim ) . 


213 .00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Filnis Divisio ! , Govt. 

of Indiit , 24 , Peddar of India , Bombay - 26 . - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . 


U 
74605 ( Valid for English , 

- - Hindi, Marathi, 
20 - 3 -74 Gujarati Tamil , 

Tolugu, Kannada, 
Malayalım , As 
sameso , Oriya & 
Bengali versions). 


U 


B /71641 


" Indian News Roview 


B,71641 


303-00(1) 


74606 ( Valid for English. 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No. 1327 " N . E . ( 35mm .) 


303 . 00 ( 1) 


DO. 


Do, 


DO. 


74606 ( Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Kashmiri, 
20 - 3 -74 Punjabi & Urdu 

versions ) 
U 
74607 


B / 71637 - 8 


" Maharashtra News 
No . 262 " (Hindi & 
Maratlı ) (35mm). 


298 .00 (1 ) The Director Gene 

sal of Information 
& Pubic Rolation . 
Bombay- 34 . 


Tho Director General 
of Information & 
Public Rilation , 
Bombay - 34 , 


20 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71520 


" Billions for "The 
Millions ( 16 mm ) 

USSR . 


230 . 00 ( 2 ) USSR Consulate Ge - Central Docużnentary 
noral Bombay. 

Films Studio . 


74608 ( Valid fo Gujarathi 

- - Punjabi, Telugu, 
20 - 3 - 75 Malayala , n , Bon 

gali , &c Marathi, 
Versions ). 


B / 71452 


U 
74609 


" Wolcomc" (Gujarathi) 

(16 mm ) (USSR ). 


165 .00 (2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


20 - 3 -74 


U 


R /71454 


“ Ural Trucks " (Bon 
gali) (16 mni) (USSR ) 


101 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Sverdlovsk Film 

clio , 


Stu 


74610 


20 - 3 - 74 


- - - -- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2184 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III — SEC . 4 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2 . 


-- 


- - 


- 


4 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


B /71456 


217- 00(2) 


Do. 


74611 


Central Documentary 

Film Studio , 


" Along Tho Rod 
Squaro Under The 
Red Banner " (Ma 
rathi) (Colour ) ( 16 
min ) (USSR ) . 


20 - 3 - 74 


B /71642 


276 . 75 (1) Dhirendra Pande. 


U " 
74612 


“ Uttar Pradesh Sama 
char No. 22 " (Hindi) 
( 35 mm .). 


Tho Director of In 

formation Govt. of 
Uttar Pradesh , 


20 - 3 - 74 

U 
74613 


B / 71152 


" Manavata (Gujarati) 
(35 mm .) 


164 . 59 ( 1 ) Filmi Saudagars , 11 - Filmi Saudagars, 

Kshitij, Adarsh Bombay - 64 , 
Society, Riimchandra 
Lane, Malad ( W ) 
Bombay -64 . 


20 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71472 


74614 


" Initiating And De 
ciding " ( English ) (16 
(mm ) (U . K .). 


187 - 76 ( 1) Hindustan Aeronau - Louis A . Allen Asso 

tios Ltd ,. I lyderabad - ciates. 
42. 


P . E . 


20 -3 - 74 

U 
74615 


B /71473 


" Doveloping People s 

(English ) ( 16 mm .) 


188 . 98 (1) 


Do. 


P . E 


20 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71471 


199 . 95 ( 1) 


Do. 


74616 


“ Forecasting - - Sot 
ting Objectives " (Cn . 
glish ) (U . K .). 


P . E . 


20 - 3 - 74 


B /71474 


207 .87 (1 ) 


74617 


" Developing of Per 
formance " Standar 
ds " (English ) (16 
mm ) (U . K .). 


20 - 3 - 74 


B /71470 


195 -07 


(1) 


U 
74618 


Do. 


" Communicating " 
( English ) (16 mm .) 
(U . K .). 


P . E . 


20 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71604 


74619 


" Punjab News Reol 

No . 6 " ( Punjabi ( 35 
mm ). 


297 18 ( 1 ) R . K . Gupta , Bom - Diroctor Public Re 

bay Film Lab . lations Punjab , Cha - - 
Pvt. Ltd ., 149 -S . K , ndigarh , 
Bolo Rd . Dadur, 
Bombay-28 D . D . 


21 -3 - 74 


B /71605 


Do. 


B /70700 


Theorie und Pre 


74621 wit 


" Punjab Nows Reol 299 . 92 ( 1) 

Director Public Row 74620 
No, 7 ” (Purjabi) (35 

lations Punjab , Cha 
mm ). 

ndigarh . 

21-3 - 74 

U 
" Kshitii ” (Hindi) (Co . 3545 84 (15 ) Roopkanini Inter - H . O . B . Prasad , 74621 will triangle mark , 
lour ) (35 mm ). 

national 

Roopkamini Inter 
national, 

21- 3 - 74 
Endorsement 

Original Length 3557 . 93 m . 
Cut Rool 
No . No. 
1. ) (n the inter-cut negative exposures (solarised sequenco ) deloto the second and tho third shots showing 

bare -bodied couple making lovo on bod . - 21. 25 m . (Roplacod with approved shots 21 -25 m ). 
2 . III From the dialogues ol Joginder with Shela dulote the underlined words hom tho following linos 

Shoola : Is ko unusaar napusi k vyakti ki bjbi doosre áudmi so bachlia paida karva sakti thi." 
Joginder ; " Mahabharat ke Pandu , Dlintarashtra , Vidur isi tarah paila huye hain aur ye paan nahin 
samjha jata tha ." - 203 m . 
Reduce the lirst shot of Rita lying over a boy in bod retiinig the socond shot for suggestion – 0 - 30 m , 
(Longth rotainod : 0 .61 m .). 
During the photography Soquunco , dolote the shot from the momont the man romovos Shoola s bra 

from lor person and shows it to the camord with a wink . - 1 . 12 m . 
5 . X Reduce the figlit botwcon Dhiraj and Kishan deleting the gruesomo visuals . - 7 . 12 m . 

(Longth retained 27 . 13 m .). 
6 . XI . Delete the underlined words from the following dialogues of the photographer addressod to Shola , 

with roforence taking nude photographs of hor " Us din ka scene naqli tha , aa ) asli loga - 1 . 52 m . 
7. XIV From tho cabaret sequence , dolete all tho shots in which the cabaret dancer kocps tho inicrophone jn 

front of hor face and recites shlokas from Kumarasambhavam ( There is no objoction 10 the shots 
showing Parvati Shankor dance on tho stage ) 2765 m . 
( Replacod with approved shots - 27 .65 m .). 

Longth of doletions 60 .99 m . 
Longth of approved roplacemont : 48 . 90 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alteration will be 3545 .84 m . in 15 Reols . 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2185 


- 


= 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


B / 71599 


" Sohani Raat" 

Hindi (35 mm ) 


3121. 46 ( 11) 


B / 71614 


30 - 48 (1 ) 


“ D .CM . 
( English ) 
( 35 mm ). 


Sarees " 
(Colour ) 


S . Saran , Top foor , 153 S . Saran , Top floor , 153 74622 
Asha Nivas , Naigaum , Asha Nivas , Naigaum , 
Dada ,r Bombay - 14 . Dadar, Bombay - 14 . 22- 3 - 74 

U 
M /s. Television Radio M /s . Television 

74623 
& Motion Pictures Radio & Motion Pic 
6 - A , Rizshmi. 

tures , 6 - A , Rashmi 
Carmichal Road , Charmichal Road , 
Bombay -400026 . Bombay- 400026 . 


U 


B /71552 


152 . 40 ( 1) 


74624 


" Elasticity And Plas- 
ticity " (English ) (35 mm ) . 


P . E . 


D . N . Kapadia , Vijay D . N . Kapadia . Ban 
Nagar , No . 5 , R N . dra , 
135 , Bandra Hous 
ing Collany, Ban 
dra . 


22-3 - 74 


B /71613 


30 .48( 1) 


U 
74625 


" Peera Hare , Achha 
Karo" (Hindi) (35 mm ). 


Film Medit , 47 
Laxmi inguranco 
Building, Sir P . M . 
Road , Bombay-1. 


Mr. Juoti G . Thakur, 
Film Media , Bombay-i 


22 - 3 - 74 


B / 71291 


153 •01( 1) 


" Caribou op met het in 


22-3.74 
153-01(1) Natione or more contient NaricanadFilm Board _ 74626 


" Caribou of Northern 
Cunda " ( English ) 
(Col.) (16 mm ) (Ca 
nadt). 


U 
74626 

- 
22- 3 - 74 


P . E . 


National Education National Film Board 

& Information, Fil- of Canada . 
is, Nution il 
Housc, Tulloch Rd., 
Apollo Bander , 
Bombay. 


B / 71290 


186 .84 (1 ) 


Do. 


U 
74627 


P.E . 


" The Huntsman " ( En . 

glish ) (Colour) (35 
mm .) (Canada ). 


22 - 3 -74 

U 
74628 


B /71289 


147 .55 (1) 


Do. 


" A Special Places 
(English ) (Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Canada ). 


22 - 3 - 74 


B /71468 


" Pyas" (Hindi) ( Co 
lour ) ( 35 mm ). 


29 .87 (1 ) 


74629 


M /s . Film 
Studios, 
Bridge , 
400007 . 


5 , Jyoti M /s . Film 
Kcddedy Studios , 
Bombay. Bridge, 

400007. 


5 , Jyoti 
Kennedy 
Bombay 


22- 3- 74 


B /71467 


"" Thirst" ( English ) 
(Colour)(35 mm ). 


29 -87 (1) 


U 
74630 


Do. 


Do. 


22 - 3 -74 


U 


B / 71417 


74631 


" Our Striking Forco " 

(Fnglish ) (35 mm ). 


225 .00 ( 1 ) Films Divisio11 , Go- Films Division , GO - 

vornmont of India , vernment of India , 
24- Pedd.ir Road , 24 -Peddar Road, 
Bombay- 26 

Bombay - 26 . 


22-3 - 74 


U 


B /71611 


74632 


" Wanted Alive" ( En 
glish ) (35 mm ). 


70 .00 ( 1) Issir Films, 2 , Mitra Iggar Filnis , 2 , Mitra 

Milin , 68, Chipul Rd ., Milan , 68. Chapel Rd . , 
Bindra , Bom jay -50 . Banda Bombay- 50 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71572 


“ Applique Of Orissu ” 
( English ) (Colour ). 


292 . 00 (1) 


Twin Films, 


74633 


P . E . 


Dilip Dutta , Twin 

Films, 22 /339 Si- - 
dharthnagar -4 , Go- 
regaon -West Bon 
bay -62 , 


22-3 - 74 


B /71279 


" The Motor Effect" 
( Silont) (8 mm .) ( U . K .). 


U 
74634 
22- 3-74 


16 . 00 ( 1) Cinema Workshop , Macmillan & Cem 

National House , 6 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
hay - 1 , 


P.E . 


B /71278 


" Secondary Cell" 
(Silent) (8 min ) (U . K .). 


16 .00(1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74635 


P.E . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71277 


74636 


P.E . 


" Sengc Of Hearing 
( Silent) (Colour ) ( 8 
mm .) (U . K .). 


16 . 00 (1) Cinema Workshop, Macmillan & Cem . 

National Houso , 6 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay- 1 . 

- - - - 


22 - 3 - 74 


- - - 


2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — Sec. 4 


1 


H 


B / 71276 


160(1 ) 


U 
74637 


“ Perception Of Light 

Enorgy " (Silent) (8 
mm .) ( U . K .). 


P . E . 


22- 3- 74 


B /71275 


" Mutual Induction " 
(Silent) (8 in ) (U . K .). 


16 .00(1) 


74638 


- 


P . E . 


22- 3 - 74 

U 
74639 


B /71274 


16 . 00 ( 1) 


“ The Transformor" 

(Silent) (8 min .) 
( U . K .). 


P . E . 


22 - 3 - 74 

U 
74640 


B /71273 


16 .00 (1) 


" The Kidney " (Silent ) 

(Colour) (8 mm .) 
(U . K .) 


P . E . 


B / 71272 


" Human Skin " (Si 
lent) (8 mm ). (U .K .). 


16 .00 (1) 


22- 3 - 74 
U 
74641 

- 
22 - 3 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71271 


16 . 00 ( 1) 


" Electo Mugnolic 
Induction ” (Silent) 
(8 mm .) ( U . K .). 


74642 

— 
22 - 3 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71443 


U 
74643 


" Warmth of Your 
Hands " (Malaya 
lam (16 mm .) (USSR ). 


856 . 00 (8 ) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

Genoral, 42 -Nepoansça Film Studio , 
Rd., Bombay -6 . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71551 


30 - 48 ( 1 ) 


74644 


a han har 


" The IIappy Family " 

(Hindi) ( Colour) ( 35 
mm .) 


30-480) Pin comproductions 


egen de 


F . B . Productions, F . B . Productions, 
Film Centre, 68 Tai- Tilm Centre , 68 - - 
deu Road , Bombay Tardeo Road , Bom - 
34 . 

bay- 34 . 


22 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71550 


30 : 48 ( 1) 


Do, 


" The trip " (Hindi) 

(Colour ) (35 mm .) 


Do. 


74645 


22-3 - 75 


B /71549 


“ The Recovery " (Hin 
di) (Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


30 .48 (1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74646 


22 - 3 -74 


B /71548 


" Little Champ" (Hin 
di) (Colour) (35 mm .) 


30 .48 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74647 


22 - 3 - 74 

U 
74648 


B /71485 


" The Oberoi Shop 
ping Centre " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour) (35 mm .) 


30 .48( 1) Shri S . Sukhdev , Unit- 

ted Filin Arts , 14 - 
Rock House Worli 
Hill, Bombay- 18 . 


Shri S . Sukhdev , 
United Film Arts , 
Bombay- 18. 


22-3 -74 


U 


B /71481 


742 - 19 ( 3 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Managemont By Ob 
jectives " ( English ) 
(Colour). 


Do. 


94649 


P . E . 


22 - 3 -74 


B /71602 


B /70214 


" Trailer of Man Jeele 82 - 30 ( 1) S . Mohinder, laluti S. Mohinder, Talati 74650 
Jag Joete ” ( Punjabi) 

Cottage , 7 -Bung- Collago , 7-Bung- - 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) low , Bombay-61 . low , Bombay -ál. 22 -3 - 74 

U 
" Heera ” ( IIindi) ( Co 3924 - 26 (16) Sultan Ahmed , 707, Sultan Ahmed , 707, 74651 With triangle mark . 
lour) (35mm ). 

Prasad Chambers , Prasad Chambers, — 

Tata Rd ., Bombay- 4 . Tuta Road , Bombay-4 . 22 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement : 

Original length : 4004 - 20 m . 
This certificate is issued in lieu of " A " Cartificato No. 3199 dated 23- 10 - 1973 grantc by the Contral Board of Film 

Consors in accordunce with the orders No. 7 / 26 / 73 FC dated 2nd March , 1974 passed by Govorimont of India in 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 

Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952) . 
Cut No . Reel No . 
1. I : Delete the roſoronce to the lovo of "Radha - Krishna " in comparison with the love of I aila Majnu and 

others . 
(Deleter sound only ) (Replaced ) with approved sound ). 


PART III. Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2187 


2 


3 


2. I Roduce to one or two the head -to -head hitting of Heera and the bald man. 1 . 22 m . 

(Length retained : 1 . 22 m .). 
3 . III : Reduce suitably the viow of Balwant caressig the baro leg ofGulabi and moving his fingers upward , 

(Shots blown up ) . 
( ii) Delete the dialogue of Balwant with Gulabicomparing her (ų vamp) with a sacred idol worthy of 

worshipping if kept in the temple . 

(Deleted sound only) (Replaced with approved sound ). 
4 . VI : Reduce thewhipping of old man by Balwant – 2 - 28 m . (Length retained : 4 . 27 m ). 
3 . VI : Roduce suitably the head -to -head hitting betwcen Heera and Balwant. – 4 . 70 m . (Length retained 

36 . 29 m ). 
6 . VIII : Reduco the whipping of pregnant Laheria by her father .-- 2 - 13 m . (Longth retained ; 6 -40 m ) 

(Roplaced with approved shots : 0 . 15 m .). 
7. X : Reduce the fight between Balwant s mon and Heera, particularly head-to -head hitting and bitting on 

tho stomach . - 12 - 42 m . 

( Length retained : 42 -46 m .). 
8 . XI : From tue mujra itom , reduce the quick bust jerking movement of the dancer when shemoves towards 

Balwant, and delote the suggestion of kiss at the ond ,-- 1 82 m . 

(Length retained : 3 . 35 m .) (Replaced with approved shots : 1 .63 m .). 
9 . XIII : (1) Roduce the fight betweon Jangoo and Hoora particularly where weapons aro used . 1 

( Length retained : 12 - 20 m ). 
(2) Roduce the prominent view of blood during the fight botwcon Balwant and Hoora and Others , 

kcoping the important dialogue portion , - 8 . 40 m . 

(Length retained : 0 -37 m .). 
10. XIV : Reduco considerably the molestation scone of a village girl by Balwant s man , retaining only the 

important dialoguo portion towards, tho end.-- - 4 . 76 m . (Length retained : 3 . 72m .). 
11. XV : (a ) Deloto the view of dacoit Balwant looking with pride on the blood stained kaifo in bis hand after 

scratching Asha s arm . - 1 .00 m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 .00 m .). 
(b ) Reduce in general the fight with weapong particularly prominent view of blood and head-to - head 

fight between Hoora and the bald man , — 15 . 19 m . (Length retained 35 . 98 m .) . 
12 . XVI : (a ) Reduce the shot of Heera hitting Balwantwith the gun -butt and reduce the numbor of shots fired 

by the police on Balwant.--- 5 - 31 m . 

(Length retainod : 9 . 75 m . (Replaced ) with approvod shots : 0 . 39 m .). 

(b) Delete the view of Heera kicking on the dead body of Balwant, - 0 .61 m , 
The following additional cuts have been ordered by Government persuant to thier orders referred to abovo. 
1 . UIT : Reduco one suggestive scene which is also not even essential to the plot- scene between Balwant and 

Gulabi where Balwant is talking and caressing the thighs. - 14 . 63 m . 
(Length retained : 16 .46 m .) 

(i) Some of the violencebe toned down , 
( ii) Reduce violence in the sccne relating to beating of Lahoria by her 

6 .81 m . 
father (Length retained : 9 . 14 m .). 
(li ) Reduco violence in the scene depicting the death of the father 

(Length rotained : 23 . 17 m ). 
3. VI : Spoken " Purane Reeti Riwaj ko Bharat Sarkar Bhi Nahi Badal Sakti from this sentence word 

" Bharat Sarkar" may be changed . (Replaced with approved words) . 
Tho validity of " U " Certificate will expiro with the date of expiry of the superceded " A " certificato 
No . 3199 of 23 - 10 - 1973 , viz : 22nd of October, 1973 , 

Length of deletions : 83 . 11 m . 
Length of approved roplacomont : 3 . 17 m . 
Actual length of tho film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3924 .26 m . in 16 Reels , 

U 
" Trailer of Chor Ma. 91 .50 ( 1) N . N . Sippy Produc- N . N . Sippy , H . U . F . 74652 
chayo Shor " (Hindi) 

tions, 4 - B Naaz Buil. 
( Colour) ( 36 mm .). ding , Lamington Rd. 

23 - 3 - 74 
Bombay - 4 . 


B /71652 


B /71082 " Do Aankhon " (Hin - 3728 . 60 ( 14 ) Gulshan Bahl, N . C . Gulshan Babi, Bom 3221 With triangle mark . 
di) (Colour) (35mm ). 

Films, 191 , Kurla bay - 69 . 
Road Andheri (E ) 

19 - 3 - 74 
Bombay- 69 , 
Endorsement 

Original length : 3780 . 10 m . 
Cut No. Rcel No . 
1. II : In the picturisation of the song " Ladki unnis se sattarki. , . . . . . 

" delete suggestive close ups of 
breasts and midriff, as also shots of Ajay trying to remove bresiers of a girl and their other indecoroug 

shots . - 2 . 94 m . (Replaced with approved shots : 2 . 94 m .) . 
7 - - 369GT/75 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


2188 


5 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III - SEC, 4 
= = = = = = = = = = = 

- - - - - 
2 3 

6 
- - - - 
2. III : Reduco the modus operandi of looting of railway wagons by retaining only a few suggestive shots 

for continuity . - - 5 -68 m , 

Length rotained : 2 .09 m . ) . 
3 . IV : Reduco Vijay hitting the accomplico of criminals at tho police station , by keeping only a suggestion, 

2 . 78 m . (Deleted completely ). 
4 . V ; Delete the underlined words from thc following dialogues : 

Pandit : " Tun ck goli khayega , lumhare maan Ko bhi bachha ho jayegu " Pandit : Goli andar baccha 
bahas " Sahukar : Hathodi.. .. .. . . .. ? 
Pandit : Are bhai, thokanekelive " (and repetition ) Sahukar : Thokanekuliye . . . . . . ? (Replaced with 

approved words ) 
5 . VIII : In the soquonce of police raid on Ajay s don , delete all the gruesome shots including shots of polico 

men being killed and another police officer being manhandled - 9 .92 m . 
6 . XII : In tho sequence of lighting in tho car, reduce considerably shots of strangulation of Ajay and Ajay 

pressing the neck of a gangster and the nock of Ajay being pressed with window glass and reduce 

gruesome shots. : 14 . 02 (Length retained : 7 . 92 m ). 
7 . XV : Reduce drastically the fight between Ajay and Vijay in tho templo , deleting shots of strangulation 

shots of using templo equipments such as bells and dcep for hitting ono another and dashing of the 
head on prayer stone. 19 . 10 m . 
(Length retained : 10 . 36 m . ) . 

Length of deletions 54 -44 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 . 94 m . 

Actual longth of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3728 .60 m . 
Endorsement under rule 34 : 

B /71469 

Film : " Twice As Good" (English ) 
U -Cert. No, 74312 of 4 - 2- 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Telugu version of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was endorsed on 18th March , 1974 . 
B /68758 

Film : " For Tho High Seag" (English ) 
U - Cert . No . 722390f 28 - 3 . 1973 . 

Deletod various shots : 42 . 00 m . Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 185 . 00 m . This 

certificate was endorsed on 18th March , 1974 . 
B /70999 

Film : " Grahan " (Hindi) ( 35 min ). 
U - Cert. No. 74153 of 29 - 12- 1973 , 
Reel No. Recl No. 

Reel No. 
I. : Deleted yarious shots: 9 . 14 m . IV : Deleted various shots :53 . 95 m . VIII : Deleted various shots : 7 .01 m . 
II : Deleted various shots 100 - 28 m V : Deleted various shots 63 - 46 IX : Deleted various shots : 12 . 80 m . 
III : Doleted various shots 57 . 99 m . VII : Deleted various shots : 11 . 58 m . XII : Deleted various shots : 39 -32 m . 


Longth of delotions : 355 .45 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2974 .55 m . 
Reel No . 10 , 11 and 12 aro printed in monochrome, 
The words superimposed on the last shot " the beginning of Acceptance " Are changed to " THE END " 
Reel No. 1 : Script and Direction credited to Shri M . Prabhat . 

This certificato was endorscd on 19th March 1974 . 
B /71606 - 10 
Film : “ Pure And Gentlo " ( English ) 
U -Cert. No , 74443 of 4 - 3 - 1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Telugu, Malayalam Kannada , Bengali and Hindi versions of the film in colour. 

The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificato was endorsed on 20th March , 1974. 
B /71622 . 7 

Film : “ Pura Pani Bharpur Munafa (Marathi) 
U - Cert. No. 74360 of 14 - 2 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi, Telugu , Bengali , Kannad and Gujarati vorsions of tho film in Colour. The 

length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 . 
B /71114 

Film : " Amir Khusro " (Eoglish ) 

U -Cert. No. 74252 of 23- 1- 1974 . 
Correction : 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may bo read as 313 .00 m . instead of 329 . 00 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 . 
Film : "Monoy That Matters" (English ) 

U -Cort, 73717 of 31 - 10 - 1973, 
Correction ; 

The length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 308 . 00m . instead of 305 . 00m , 
This certificate was endorsed on 20th March , 1974 , 


PART III — SEC. 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - = - =- = - = - = -= 

- - - - G - -- = - - = - = - = - = 

= = = 


2189 


= 


= 


= = = 


6 


B /71020 
Film : " Homage To The Sons of India " 

U -Cert. No. 74159 of 31 - 12 - 1973 . 
Corrections : 

The length of the Alm on the facc of the certificate may be read aş 202 meters instead of 243 . 84 m . 

This certificate was cndorsed on 31st March , 1974 . 
B / 70987 
Film : " The Firo " (No dialogue of Commentary ) 
U - Cert. No . 74149 of 29- 12 - 1973. 

Commentary is added . Film is in Hindi language now . Length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate 

was endorsed on 21st Murch , 1974. 
B /71295 
Film : " Saath Kuchh Na Jayega " (Hindi) 

U -Cert. No. 71737 of 20 - 1- 1973. 
This certificate is also valid for English version of the film . The length of the film remains unchanged . This 

certificate was endorsed on 23rd March , 1974 , 
B /69752 
Filin : " Sahkar Ne Sathware " (Gujarati ) 
U - Cert. No. 72974 of 3-8 -1973. 

Deleted various shots : 8 .00 m . Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 296 .00 m . 
This certificate wus endorsed on 23rd March , 1974 . 

WEEK ENDING 23RD MARCH , 1974 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Chez M . Marc chag 210 .00 (1) Cultural connecllor - Agence Francise D 73386 
gal ( Frunch ) (Colo 

Franch Embassy , Images 
ur) 16mm -France. New Delhi 

19 - 3 - 74 


C /7714 


- 


P .E . 


U 


C /7715 


230 . 00 (1) 


Do 


Films Dela Pleiade 


73387 


La Direction D Ac 
tcurs Par Jean Reno 
ir ( French ) (Colour) 
16 mm - France . 


19 - 3 - 74 


C / 7716 


100 - 00 (1 ) 


Do 


Films Paul Grimault 


U 
73388 


La Diamant (No dia 
toguc , Sony or Com 
mentary ) (Colour) 16 
mm - France . 


19 - 3 - 74 


C /7717 


Do 


90 .00 (1 ) 


DO 


Do 


73389 


90.00(1) 


43389 


Une Bombc Par Hasa 
rd (No dialogue song 
or Commentary (Co 
lour ) 16 mm - France 


19 - 3 - 74 


C /7719 


570 . 00 (1 ) 


I 


Do 


Films Caravello S .A . 


73390 


Les Temps Retrouves 
( English (Colour) 
16mm - Franco, 


P.E . 


19 - 3 - 74 


C /7981 


73 .15 (1) 


U 
- 73391 


Thakavat-ki-Rukavat 
(Part No. 1 Ghora 
gadi Bedi) (Hindi) 
( Colour) 35 mm 


13.154 


Calcuita Filmlot Ad- Aloke Nath Bagchi 
vertising 109 , Bidhan 
Şarani, Calcutta - 4 


Aloke nam se 


23- 3 -74 


23-3-74 


India . 


C / 7982 


79 . 25 ( 1) 


Do 


Do 


Do 


U 
73392 


73892 


Thakayat -ki- Ruka 
yat (Part No , 11 
Sonali Bagh Bidi 
(Assamese ) (Colour ) 


23 - 3 - 74 


C / 7983 


ki- Ruka - 


76-20(1) 


DO 


D 


Do 


O 


73393 


73393 


Thakavat ki- Ruka 
vat ( Part No. III 
Sonari 545 Bidi) 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 


23 - 3 - 74 


U 


C / 7988 


Batik (English ) 35mm 
India , 


Nupur Mitra 


73394 


30 .48 (1 ) Bagusroc Films 102, Smt. 

S . P . Mukherjeec 
Road , Cal-26 


23 - 3 - 74 


C/ 1989 


New Earth (English ) 

( Partly Colour) 35 
mm - India . 


624 - 84 ( 2) GRA 

Gacha 

19 


Film 72 

Road , 


U 
73395 

- 
23 - 3 - 74 


47, Irrigation & Water- 
Cal ways Dept. Govt. - 

of West Bengal, 
Writers Buildings , 
Calcutti - 1 


P . E . 


2190 
- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (Part III - SEC . 4 

R 

= 


- 


MADRAS 


M /8477 


67475 


Narakasura Vadhe 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . 
B & W . India . 


3947 16 (15 ) Kiran Pictures, Ban - Kiran Pictures, Ban 
galore. 

galore. 


18 - 3 -74 


M /8479 


4218 . 73 (17 ) Anupam Movies, Ban - Anupam 
galore. 

Bangalore . 


Movies, 


Yeradukanasu (Kun - 
nad ) (Colour ) 35 
India . 


67476 


18 - 3 - 74 


U 


M /8485 


M /8486 


Trailer of Thiruttu 94 -50 ( 1) Navadoya Art Mo- Navodaya Art Mo- 67477 
Valli ( Tamil) 35 

vies, Madras 

vics, Madras 
mm . B & W . India , 

18 - 3 - 74 

Մ 
Pancha Thanthram 3980 . 10 (15 ) Sree Murugalaya , Shri E . K . Thiyagara 67478 
(Malayalam ) 35 mm . 

Madras. jan , Madras 

With cuts. 
B & W . India . 

18 -3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert. No . 67478 -U dt. 18-3- 74 issued to the film Pancha Thanthram (Malayalam ) 35mm B & W 
Length applied 3993 -20 Metres. 
Cuts 

Mts . 
1. Reel 2 - Delete closc -range shot of the police official s dead body on motor 
cycle with blood seen dripping. 

0 . 91 
2 . Reel 3 — Delete the cabaret dancer s mentioning of Bombay . (Sound only ). - 
3 . Recl 11 - Reduce Julio being given electric shocks to only once . 

2 . 14 
4 . Reel 15 — Reduce considerably the fighting scene in the den . 

10 -05 


Total : 


13 - 10 


Actual length of the film is 3980 . 10 Metres in 15 Reels , 


M / 8478 


67479 


With cuts 


21- 3 - 74 


Rahasya Raatri (Mala - 3960 . 24 ( 15 ) Sri Sai Productions, Shri R . S . Srinivusa , 
yalam ) 35 mm . B & W 

Madras. 

Madras. 
India . 

Endorscment on cort. No. 67479 - U , dated 21st March 1974 issued to the 
film Rahasya Raatri (Malayalam ). 
Length applied 4009. 00 Metres . 
Cuts 
1 , Reel- 3 — Bahadur in girl s costume, without upper cloth to be reducod ,deleting 

all indecent actions of Bahadur (Retained 60 . 96 ). 
2. Reel-9 — Delete sound of Kiss. (Sound only) 
3 . Reel-11 - Delete reference to todely shop in the song, sung by Başi as a Sadhu 

(Sound only replaced words approved .) 


Mts . 


48 . 76 


Total : 


48 - 76 


M /8481 


M /8491 


Actual length of the film will be 3960 . 24 Metres in 15 Rcels. 

U 
Kanmani Raja ( Tamil) 3994 . 09 (15) Muthuvel Movics , Muthuvel Movies , 67480 
35mm B & W . India 

Madras Madras 

21 - 3 - 74 

U 
Bhaktha Prahlada 4547 .00 ( 19 ) RajeswarFilms, Rajeswari 

Films, 

67481 
(Kannada) (Colour) 

Madras 

Madras 
35mm . India 

21-3 - 74 

U 
Maadi Madidavarul 3360 .40 (12 ) Malçnad Theatres, Malonad Theatres , 67482 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . Sugar, Karnataka, Sugar, Karnataka, 

With - cuts. 
B . & W . India . 

22 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert No. 67482 - U dt. 22nd March 1974 issued to film Madi Madidavaru (Kannada ). 
Length applied 3390 . 40 Mts . 
Cuts. 

Mts. 
1. Reel 7 - Rauce to a flash , whipping of the old man by a Zamidar. (Retained 
1 . 52 ), 

3 .40 
2 . Reel- 11 - Delete names of all border towns Nipani, Hubli etc. (Sound only) 


M /8392 


Total : 


3 .04 


Actual length will be 3357 . 34 Mts . in 12 Rccls . 


ma 


PART II — SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2191 


M /8496 


91 . 13 (1) 


Trailer of cthi- Lak 
shmi ( Tamil) 35mm 
B & W . India 


M . S . Pictures, Mad - M .S. Pictures, Mad - 
ras . 


67483 


ras. 


22 - 3 - 74 


WEEK ENDING 30TH MARCH , 1974 , 


B / 71631 


" The New Giſt of Co 
mmunication " ( En 
glish ) (35mm ) 


BOMBAY 

U 
319 .00 (1) Films Division , Govt Films Division , Govt. 74653 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - -- 
Road , Bombay - 26 Road , Bombay 26 25- 3-74 


319-00(1) Films, 


mmeun Grift or 


P . E . 


U 


B /71597 


287 - 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


74654 


" Putting The House 
In Order " (English ) 
(35mm .) 


Not = P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71598 


323 .00 (1) 


Do . 


“ Save A Life " (Eng 
lish ) ( 35mm ) 


74655 


P .E 


25 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71635 


422 -00 ( 2 ) 


422-00(2) 


Do. 


Do. 


74656 


P.E . 


25 - 3 - 74 


“ When Dream Comes 

True " alias seeing is 
Believing (English ) 
35 m . m . 
" Future Canvas" 

(English ) (35mm .) 


B / 71629 


420 -00 (2 ) 


U 
74657 


Do. 


P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 


U 


B / 71451 


279 . 00 ( 1) 


74658 


" Moscow Review No . 
2 " (Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm ) (USSR ) 


USSSR Consulato Central Documentary 
General, 42 Nepean - Film Studio 
seu Road, Bombay 
-6 


25- 3 - 74 


U 


B /71450 


Do. 


B /71557 
59 


B / 71344 


" Moscow Revicw No. 279 .00 (1) USSR Consulato Gene 

74659 
4 " (Hindi) (Colour ) 

ral, 42 -Ncpcanseu 
(35mm .) (USSR ) Road , Bombay -6 , 

25-3 - 74 

U 
" Funny Fellow From 986 -00 (9 ) 

Do . 

Maxim Gorky Film 74660 (Valid for Cannada , 
Fifth B (Russian 

Studio . 

- Marathi & Bengali 
commentary ( 16mm .) 

25 - 3 -74 Versions.) 
(USSR ) 

U 
" Do Challane" 3814 .63 ( 16 ) Apollo International, Joginder, 

74661 With triangle mark , 
( Flindi) (Colour) 

3 - Mamta , 183, 
(35mm .) Waterfold Rd , Bandra , 

25- 3 -74 
Bombay - 50 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3911 - 80 m . 
Cur Reel 
No. No. 
1 II : Reduce cosiderably tho sequence of revelry in Seth Dhaniram s house, deleting particularly the 

following shots : 
(i) Pouring ofwine on a girl s leg and a man licking it- 3 . 0 ) , ( ii ) a girl carcssing the legs of a man 

in dhoti -0 - 58m . 
(li ) A man passing his logs through the parted legs of a girl- 0 . 91 m , (iv ) Reduce the shots of cru 

shed bread and bread being crushed under the fect of the dancing couples - 1 - 44 m . (Length 

retained : 1 .22 m .) 
(v ) Reduce the shot showing a girl with several men within indecent gestures.- 1 - 56m . (Deleted 

completely ). 
2 V : In tho ducl song sequence : (i) delete the shot (s) in which Aruna rubs her boson on Raką when 

he is lying on the ground - 1 - 59 m . (Replaced : 1 . 59 m .) 

(ii) delete the shots of suggestion of kiss between Rana and Asha - 0 - 39m . 
VI : Reduce the fight in the Restaurant between Raka and Rana and the goondas delcting glucome 

shots. — 7 .92 m . (Length retained : 16 .46 m .) 
4 . VIII : Reduce the fight in the Ganja smoker s den deleting gruesome shots . — 10 . 06 m . (Longth retained : 

18 . 90 m .) 
5 . X : Doloto the underlined remark of Pandit s to one another : " Kamre mein band ho, aur shaadi ho 

jai chabi kho Jal . ek hi baat hai na 2 .00 m . 
6 . XI : Reduco the fight deleting gruesome shots. — 1 . 22 m . (Length rotained : 2 -44 m .) 
7 . XIII : Reduce tho considorably the fight between Raka and Rana deleting gruesome shots. — 15 -24 m . 

(Length rotaincd : 24 38 m .) 


2192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) PART III — SEC . 4 

-- - - - - - -- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


3 


8 . XV : (i) Reduce the number and duration of inter cuts showing molestation of and attempt at Farida 
& XVI 

by Abdul during the fight taking out shots whero Abdul in directly above Farida lying on her 

back . - -20 : 59 m . (Length retained : 16 .76 m .) 
(ii) Reduce the fight between Dhaniram s hirelings on the one hand and Raka and Rana on the other 

deleting gruesomo shots. — 29 . 09 m . (length retained : 90 . 22 m .) 
( lii) Also delete the following undorlined dialogue of Abdul adresscd to Raka with referenco to 

his a intention to rape Farida . 

" Aaj main tere saamne teri bahon ki abroo se kheloonga " 3 . 12 m . 
Length of dclctions : 98 -76 m . 
Length of replacement : 1 .59 m . 
Actual length of the film after tho aforcsaid alterations will be : 3814 . 63 m . in 16 Reels , 


B /71634 


B /71666 


B /71621 


( 1) 


B /71667 


" Phillips (Hindi) 

15 . 24 ( 1) Kalp , B -1 - B2 Samruddhi Kalp , B -1 -B2 Samruddhi U 
(35mm .) 

Housing Society , Bha - Houding Sociсty , Bha- 74662 
vani Shankar Road , Vani Shankar, Road , - 
Cross Lane , Dadar, Cross Lano, Dadar , 25 -3 -74 
Bombay - 28 . Bombay-28, 

U 
" Flowers All Day " 23 -87 ( 1) F . B . Productions, Film F . B . Productions, 74663 
( English ( (Colour ) 

Centre , 68 , Tardeo Bombay - 34 . 
( 35mm .) Road, Bombay - 34 . 

25 - 3 -74 
" Lakhon Ki Pasand" 

Durga Khote Produ - Durga Khote Produ . 
Mainn (Hindi) 30 .48 tions, India House , toins, India House , 74664 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 

First floor , Fort, First floor , Fort – 

Street, Bombay- 1. Street, Bombay- l. 25 -3 - 74 
" Vah Vijay" (Hindi) 29 -86 (1) Film Media , 47-Lax - Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, U 
(35mm .) 

mi losurujice Bldg., Film Media , Bom - 74665 
Sir P . M . Rd , Bom - bay - l . 
bay -l . 

25- 3 - 74 
" Rang Mo Aayei” 30 . 48 ( 1 ) 

-do. 

-do 
(Hindi) (Colour) (33mm .) 

74666 
25- 3 - 74 

U 
" A New Namc In Air 83 .82 (1 ) British Airways, Yul BOAC . 

74667 
Travel" (English ) 

can Losurance Bldg., 
(colour) ( 35mm .) ( U . K .) Churchgate , Bom 

25 - 3 - 74 
bay - 40020 , 

U 
" A Tip For A Trip " 544 . 07( 2 ) Tho Director General The Director General 75668 
(English ) (Colour ) 

of Information & Pub - of Information & - 
(35mm ). 

lic Relation , Govt, of Public Relation , Govt. 25 - 3 - 74 
Maharashtra . 

ofMaharashtra . 


U 


B /71612 


B /71644 


B /71639 


Not P . E . 


74669 


B /71601 


" Navjawanon Ka 
Nuach " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .), 


15 - 29 ( 1) Sohrab Boga , M /S 

Nishan Motion Pic - 
tures , Vasant Vihar , 
8 - Curmaichel Road, 
Bombay -400026 . 


Sohrab Boga , M /s . 
Nishan Motion Pic - 
tures, Vasant Vihar , 
8 -Carmaichel Road , 
Bombay -400026 . 


25 - 3 - 74 


U 
74670 


B /71668 


" Ck Path Do Kuaj" 
(Hindi) ( Colour) (35 
mm .). 


68 .58 (1 ) Omprakash Mislira , Omprakash Mishra , 

3368, Govind Ruiji 3368 , Govind Raiji 
Ka Rasta , Jaipur - 1. Ka Rasta , Jaipur-1 . 


P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 

U 
74671 


B /71661 


551 . 98 (2 ) Kanwar Shorcy , 27 , 

M . J. Building, Ch . 
Chowk , Delhi-6 . 


Shorey Documenatary 
Films. 


" Ujlay Phool” (Grow 
ing of Improved 
Cotton Seed " 
(Hindi) (35 mm .). 


P . E . 


25 - 3 - 74 


74672 


B /73573 


With trianglo Mark , 


25 - 3 - 74 


" Bazar Band Karo " 3668 26 (15) B . R . I. Arts Universal, B . R . Ishara , Trilok 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Trilok Niwas , B . Niwas B - Block , 
(35mn .). 

Block , Ambedkar Ambedkar Road 
Road , Palli, Bandra , Pali, Bandra , 
Bombay - 50 . 

Bombay- 50 . 
Endorsement 

Original Length .-— 3713 :07 m . 
Delete the lash -back scene of love making betwcon Komal and Desai . . , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. - 3668 - 26 m , in 15 reels, 


44 .81m . 


74673 


B / 71669 


" Mahitichitra No. 
181" (Gujarati ) (35 
mm .). 


289 - 56 (1) Director of Infor- Director of ? Infor 

mation , Govt. of mation , Govt . of - 
Gujarat. 

Gujarat, Sachivalaya , 
Ahmedabad - 15. 


27 - 3 - 74 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - - 

- - - - - - - 


2193 
- - 


-- 


در 


B /71700 


" Indian News Roviow 
No. 1328" ( 35 m . m .). 


U 
212 .00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , 24 - 74674 (Valid for English , 

of India , 24 -Peddar Peddar Road , Bom - - - Hindi, Marathi, 
Road , Bombay - 26 . bay - 26 . 

27- 3 - 74 Gujarati, Tamil , 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Pun 
jabi, Kashmiri, 
Urdu & Sindhi 
vorsions) 


B / 71699 " Indian Nows Review 299 .00 ( 0 ) 

74675 (Valid for English , 
No. 1328 " (Eastern 

Hindi, Bengali, 
Edition ) ( 35 mm .). 

27- 3 - 74 Assamese, & Oriya , 

versions .). 

U 
B /71643 " Alingan " (Hindi) 4035 - 86 ( 16 ) Jasmine Films, 305, P . P , Javeri, Jasmino 74676 
(Colour) (35 mm .). Yusuf Mohorally Road , Films, Bombay- 3 . 

- With triangle mark . 
Bombay -3 , India . 

27 - 3 - 74 
Endorsement, 

Original Length - 4048 66 m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 

Metres 
1. XII. In the rape scone, deloto the shot of caressing of Reeta s noack with lips. . 

2 - 15 m 
2 . XVI : Delete the indecent dialogue and visuals of Rceta s step father when he 

says : " Usko kali se phool kisne banaya, maino, vah kya khushbu qayco 
badanso . . . 

6 . 20 in . 
3. XVI : Reduce the fight between Asliviniand Roeta s step father , in particular 
deleting Ashvini hanging the head against tho carth as also hard hitting shots . 

4 .45 m . 
(Deleted completely ) . 
Length of deletions. — 12 -80 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be.- 4035 .86 m . in 16 reels . 


U 


B / 71615 


74677 


" Trailer of Dharmendra 
Plays Pocketmar " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


95 . 10 ( 1) Cine Mandir , 313 Air Joginder Singh Luthra 

Conditioned Market & Ramesh Lakhan 
Tardoo , Bombay - 34 . pal. 


27 - 3- 74 


B /71679 


U 
74678 


" Beat the Heat" (En 
glish ) ( Colour) ( 35mm 


30 48 (1) K . D . Master , 212 - Globe Productions, 

Schcherazadem Colaba 
Bombay- 5 . 


27- 3 -74 


U 


B /71702 


" A Two -Way Process"? 
(English ) ( 35mm .) 


P . E . 


262 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt, 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


74679 
– 
28 - 3 - 74 

U 
74680 


B /71661 


" Lila Aur Arvind " 
(Hindi) ( 35mm .) 


301 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


P . E . 


28 - 3 -74 

U 
76481 


B /71721 


38 .00 (1 ) 


Do. 


P . E . 


" Violence What Prico 
Who Pays ? No . 1 " 
(No. Conimontary , 
Music & effects only 
(35min .) 


28 - 3 - 74 


B /71701 


569 . 00 (2 ) 


Do. 


" Lakshadweop " ( Eng 
lish ) (Col.) ( 35mm .) 


74682 


P . E . 


29 - 3 -74 


U 


B /71617 


74683 


" Skylab -Outpost In 
Space " (English ) 
( Colour ( USA .) 


181 . 97 (1) United States Infor - U . S . Information 

mation Servico 4 -New Agency. 
Marino Lines , 
Bombay - 20 . 


29 -3 - 74 


U 
74684 


B /71486 


“ Poor Little Lacchi" 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


283 . 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - 
Road, Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


29 - 3 - 74 
U 
74685 


B /71628 


280 . 00 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


“ Highroad of Adven 
ture " ( English ) 
( 35mm .) 


29 -3 - 74 


2194 THEGAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III - Sec . 4 
ASS = _ _ = - = - = - = 

= = = = 


1 


2 


5 


B / 71654 


523 .00 (2) 


P . E . 


" Saga Of Shipping " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


Film Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay - 26 


74686 
- 
29- 3 - 74 


U 


B /71672 


533 .00 (2) 


Do. 


" Dr. Gustav Husak 

Visits India " ( Eng 
lish ) ( 35mm .) 


Do. 


74687 


29 - 3 - 74 


U 


B/71670 


" Kal Aaj Aur Kal" 
(Gujarati ) ( 35mm .) 


74688 


P . E . 


236 22 ( 1) Jupiter Films, 9 /6 Air 

Conditioned Market 
Tardeo , Bombay -34. 


Jaswant Singh Gupta 
and R . P . Mehta , 
Bombay-34 . 


29 - 3 -74 


U 


B / 71663 


74689 


“ Trailer of Chori 
Chori" (Hindi) (Col 
our) (35mm .) 


92. 05 (1) K . P . K . Movies, Kewal P . Kashyap , 

224 - Famous Cino 224- Fanious Cine - 
Building Mahalaxmi, Bujlding, Mahalaxmi 
Bombay - 11. 

Bombay - 11 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71714 


" Nothing Like Leather" 
(English ) (35mm .) 


74690 


K . & V. Industrics 
Commission Erla 
Road , Bombay- 56 . 


29 - 3 -74 


30 .48 (1) Mohan Kau , Clo 

Rauki Effects Seryice 
51 : 52 The Nation 
Shorgce P . Ltd . 
Mogd Lane, Sita 
ladevi Templo Road , 
Bombay -16 . 


U 


B /71603 


" Simco Hair Fixer" 
(Punjabi partly in 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) 


B /71645 


" The Prizo " ( English ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


30 .48( 1) HH . Jagwani, Adver - H . H . Jagwani, Adver- 74691 

tising Films, Jyoti tising Films Jyoti -- - 
Studios, Keddedy Studios, Keddedy 29 -3 - 74 
Bridge, Bombay- 7. Bridge, Bombay - 7 . 

U 
30 - 48 (1) Mr. Zafar Hai , Cinerad Mr. Zafar Hai, Cinerad 74692 (Valid for Hindi, 

Communications , Ke - Communications, Ks- - - - Bengali , Tamil, 
homa Bhavan , 37 , homa Bhavan , 34 - 29 - 3 - 74 Telugu & Kannada 
New Marino Linos , New Marino Lincs , 

versions .) 
Bombay -20 . Bombay- 20 . 

U 
199 . 95 (1 ) Hindustan Aeronau - British Productivity 74693 

P . F . 
tics Ltd ., New Ka- Council. 
mani Chambers , Ni 

29 - 3 - 74 
col Road , Ballard 
Estate, Bombay - 1. 


B /71671 


" Dispute " ( English ) 
( 16mm .) ( U . K .) 


B /71581 -88 


“ Around The Soviet 
Union No . 95. " 
( 16mm .) (USSR ) 


111 . 00 ( 1 ) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

General, Cultural Film Studio . 
Section , Bombay- 6 . 


74694 (Valid for Těmil, 

Hindi, Marathi 
29 - 3- 74 Telugu, Gujarati , 

Punjabi, Kannada , 
& Malayalam 
versions .) 


U 


237 - 00 ( 2 ) 


B / 71560 -63 “ Soviet Army No. 18 " 

( 16mm .) (USSR ) 


Do. 


Do 


74695 ( Valid for Gujarati , 

Telugu , Malayalam 
29 - 3 - 74 & Kannada 

versions.) 


29-3.74 


U 


B /71488 -91 " Soviet Army No . 19 " 

(16mm .) (USSR ) 


239 .00 ( 2) USSR Consulate Central Documentary 

Gencral, Bombay-6 . Film Studio . 


74696 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bengali 
29 - 3 - 74 & Malayalam 

versions.) 


U 


222 . 00 (2 ) 


B /71492-95 " Choosing Vocation ” 

( 16mm .) (USSR ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74697 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Gujarati, 
29- 3 - 74 Bengali, Telugu , 

Versions. ) 


B /71462 


74698 


P . C . 


" The Yellow Trail " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm . ) (w , 
Gormany) 


400 . 00 ( 1) Hocchst Pharmaccu - Farbwerke Hocchet AG 

tical P , B , No . 11123, 
Bombay - 20 . 


29 - 3 - 74 


U 


B /71614 


74699 


P . E . 


" Rana Pratap " (Hindi 
( 16mm .) 


279 19 ( 3 ) National Educational National Educational 

& Information Films & Information Films 
Ltd ., National House Ltd ., National House 
Bombay - 1 . 

Bombay- 1. 


29 - 3 - 74 


TÄRI III -Seri 4 ] IIIE CAZUTE O INDIA DECLMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRADAYANA ? ? , 1897 ) 


2195 


- -- - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


: 


- - - 


-- . . . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


a 


- - 


- 


v - 


- - 


- 


S 


- 


- 


- 


U 


B / 71633 


"Kal Ki Baat” (Hindi) 
( 35mm . ) 


333 :44 (1) 


74700 


P .E . 


National Educational National libucational 
& Information films & Information filmi 
Ltd . , National House Ltd ., National House - 
Bombay - 1 

Bombay- 1 


29 - 3 -74 

U 
74701 


1 /71673 


P . E . 


" Patal Ganga " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 16ınnı,) 


222 - 50 ( 1) UNICEF , 11 Jorbagh UNICET , 11 Jorbagh , 
New Delhi. 

New Delhi. 


29 - 3 -74 


B / 71620 


74702 


" Science Report 148 
B ” (English ) ( 16mm ) 
(USA ). 


149 . 26 ( 1 ) United States Informa- Robert Fostci. 

tion Service Bombay . 


29 - 3 - 74 


B /71619 


151 -49 (1) 


Do. 


U 
74703 


Do. 


P . E . 


" Science Report 148 

A " ( English ) ( 161m . 
(USA ) . 


29 - 3 -74 


B /71618 


303 - 28 ( 1 ) 


U 
74704 


Do . 


Audio Productions, 


P . E . 


" Erts-Earth Resour 
ces Technology Sa 
tellite " (English ) 
(Colour) (161m . ) 
(USA .) 


29- 3 -74 


Glimpses.com 


U 


B /71722 


451 . 10 (2 ) 


74705 


Not P . F . 


" New Glimpses of 
Delhi" (Hindi) (Col 
lour ) (35mm .) 


P . T . Jani, Shrikrishna P . T . Jani. Bombay -4 . 
Boarding House, 
Room No . 12 - 1217 , 
Charni Road , Bombay .-4 


29 - 3 -74 


Charni 


B /71763 


346 .00 (2 ) 


U 
74706 


P . E . 


" The Treacherous 
Man " (English ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Poudar of India , 24 - Peddar - 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road, Bombay- 26 . 


29 - 3 - 74 

U 
74707 


B /71720 


" The Victory Story " 
(English ) ( 35mm . ) 


3075 .00 ( 11) 


Do. 


Do . 


P . E . 


29 - 3 -74 


B /71692 


83 .82( 1 ) 


74709 


" Trailer of My Friend" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35 mm . ) 


Poonam Pictures Pvt. Poonambhai Shalı & 
Ltd Time Sủar House Narayanbhai Patel. – 
29th Rd., Pali Naka, Time Star House , 
Bandra , Bombay -50 . 29th Rd, Pali Naka, 

Bandra , Bombay -50 . 


30 - 3 -74 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 . 

B /70646 
Film : " Manoranjan" (Hindi) (Colour) 
A - Cert. No . 3211 of 11 - 1 -1974 . 
Reel XVI: Deleted various shots : 42 .67 in . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be :4536 -65 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th March , 1974 . 
Endorsement 
B / 71685 - 91 
Film : " The Crucial Ycars" (English ) 
U - Cert, No . 74298 of 1- 2- 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Marathi. Gujarati, Bengali , Kannada . Telugu , Tamil and Hindi versions of the film 

in colour . 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificatc was endorsed on 28th March , 1975 . 
B /63548 
Flim : " Sapna ” (Hindi) ( Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 63893 of 21-8 - 1971. 

Deleted various shots : 10 - 6217 . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 264 .00 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 28th March , 1974 . 
B /69566 -68 
Film : " Jumbo Ala Rc" (Marathi) 
U - Cert. No. 72912 of 21- 7 - 1973 . 

This certificate is , also valid for English version of the film in colour, The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This cortificate was endorsed on 29th March , 1974 . 


8 – 3696I/ 75 


2196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAUAYANA 22 , 1897) ( PART III - SEC . 4 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


C /7980 


WELK ENDING 30THI MARCH , 1974 . 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Ustad -Ka -Ustad (Hi 91 - 44 (1) Screen & Publicities Screen & Publicities. 73396 With traingle mark , 
ndi) ( Colour) (35mm .) 

6 - A , Saklat Place , 
(India ) Cal- 13 . 

26 - 3 -74 
Endorsement 
Original Length - 91- 44 metres 

Reduce strangulation of the men to the barest minimun — 1 - 52 . 
(Length retained 2 .74 metres ) 
Strangulation scene has been replaced with approved shots of samo length -No change in length . 
Sd /- for Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors, 25- 3-74 . 


C / 7993 


C /7994 


M /8487 


Paschim Banga Sar 309 - 37 ( 1) Iliren Bose Production Dept. of Information 73397 
karer Sangbad Chitra 

13 /11A , Swinhoe & Public Relations, 
No. 55 (March 1974 ) 

lane, Cul- 19 . 

Govt. of West Bengal 28 - 3 - 74 
(Bengali ) ( 35mm .) 

Calcutta . 1 writers 
( India .) 

Building. 

U 
Satadhara Samriddhi 309 - 37 ( 1) Basusrec Films 102, Director, Vaternary 73398 
(Bengali ) (35mm 

S , P . Mukherjee Serviço West Bengal, - 
(India ) Road, Cal- 26 . 

28 -3 - 74 
PARTICULAR OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING THE WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 30 -3-74 

MADRAS 

U 
Paddalu Marall 4373 -72 (17) Subhalakshmi Prodng., SubhalakshmiPrcdns ., 67484 
( Telugu ) 35mni. 

Madras . Madras . 

with cuts 
B & W India 

25 - 3- 74 
Endorsement on Cert. No. 67484- U dt. 25th March 1974 - issued to film Poddlu Marali" ( Telugu ) 

Length applied . 4704 -39 Metres , 
Cuts : 

Metres 
1. Reel 12 - Delete all shots of the young boy Chandram drinking liquor from the 
bottlo and getting intoxicated by the game. 

9 . 14 
2 . Recl 12 – Delete tho ontire brothol sceno in tho bungalow of Gangaram whero 

girls are lzanded ovor to each customer and also mothers breast- fceding 
their childreti, forcibly scparated and being taken from the customers , and 
treating them in a cruel manner . 

99 . 66 
3 . Reel 12 - Delete the suggostive action of Gangaram to his assistant Swami to 

liquidate a boy and later his sentei o " Aa guddi vesham vesinavadu kooda " 
and other words Uke " Kallu safa " ctc . 

23 . 15 


Total 


131 . 95 


Total voluntary deletion . 198 . 72 Mts . 
Actual length will be 4373 . 72 Mts. in 17 Reels. 


U 


M /8493 


Yauvanım (Malaya - 
lam ) 33mm . B & W 
India . 


3657 .60 ( 14 ) Neola Productions, Noela Productions, 
Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 


25 - 3 -74 


M /8464 


67486 


Pathirayum Pak 1 3836 - 15 ( 14 ) Cholavoor Productions Shri T . Kunhikandan , 
Velichayum (M : 1 iyalanı, 

Madras. 

Madras . 
35mm . B & W 
India . 


25 - 3 - 74 


U 


M /8482 


Docrkva Sumangali 
( Tamil) 35mm . 
B & W . India , 


4426 -60 ( 16 ) Vigalakshi Combines , Shri N , S , Rujondran , 
Madrils . 

Madras. 


67487 


26 - 3 - 74 


M /8495 


The Magician ( Tamil) 
(Colour) 35min ), India 


38 - 10 (1 ) 


Visual 
Madras. 


Enterprises . Vigual 

Madras . 


Enterprises , 


67488 


26 - 3 - 74 


M /8490 


"Durga (Malayalam ) 4179 - 75 ( 15 ) Udayat Picturos ( P ) Udaya Pictures ( P ) 67489 With cuts . 
(Colour) 35mni. 

Ltd ., Alleppey, 

Ltd ., Alleppey 
India . 

26 -3 -74 
Endorsement on Cert. No. 67489- U Jated 26 -3 - 74 issued to the film Durga (Malayalam ) (Colour ) 35mn . 

Length applied 4194 -64 Metros. 
Cuts . 

Mts. 
1 . Reel 13 – Reduce fight to the last point wlien father soparates Mohan and Ramu. The 
action of Mohan strangling Ramu to be eliminated . 

10 -65 


2197 


PART III — Sec . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
SHEIMYSSY - 1 :V IISISTS " : % 

ECHO . . MAS 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


( 7) 


- - - - -- 


1 -21 


2 . Recl 15 - Reduce fihgt in the jocp to a flash , 
3. Reel 15 – Delete accomplice in the jep struggling with Radha , in his effort to 

Overpower hor . 
4 . Reel 15 — Delete cloge-shot of Mohan upon Radhn , 


1 . 21 
1 . 82 


Total 


14 . 89 


Actual length of the film will be 4179 - 75 Metres in 15 Ruels , 


M /8480 


“ Thiludi ( Tamil) 4549 .74 ( 18 ) . Shri M . Ş . Kasiviswa nathan , Shri M .S . Kasiviswanathan , 67490 with out 
35mm , B & W . India . 

Madras . 

Madras 

27- 3 - 74 
Endorsement on cert. No. 67490 - Ų dt. 27-3 -74 issuod to tho film Thirudi ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 
Longth applied 4571 .64 Mts . 
Cuts : 

Mis. 
1. Reel 2 - Delele Appakkar s dialogue " Naan Etlarpper Vochuppen , Patthupor 5 . 17 

Vachuppen " . 
2 . Reel 10 -- Delete action of a thief who distracts Shanker s attention by throwing 1 . 52 

currency notos on the floor of the bank countor. 
3. Reel 13 - - Delete words of Karuppiah to Shanker " Rathiri Vittadhai Pidikkaven 
dama." 

5 .47 
4 . Reel 15 – Delete Seenu s words to Shanker " Pendattiya Padukkiral.” 

0 .60 


Total 


12 . 76 


Voluntary deletion 9 . 14 Mts , in Reel 11 , 
Actual length 4549 .74 Mtą. in 18 Reels . 


M / 8494 


Vellikkizhamai Vira 
thain ( Tamil) ( Col.) 
35mm . India , 


3983 . 50 ( 15 ) Dhandayuthapani 

Films, Madras . 


Shri M . M . A . Chinna - 67491 
ppa Devar, Medras. - - 

28 - 3- 74 


U 


67492 


M /8498 & 99 Major Brand Refinod 

Oil (Tamil & Malu 
yalam )(Colour) 35mm . 
India , 


42 . 67( 1) Shri Gnanandha En - 

terprisc , Madras . 


Shri Gnanandha En - 
terprisc, Madras. 


L 


28 - 3 - 74 


U 


M /8501 


M / 8460 


With cuts. 


Mrs. 


Trailor of Jasoos 79 . 15 (1) Sooryoday. Pictures, Sooryodya Pictures , 

67493 
Ladki (Hindi) 

Mudras. 

Madras . 
35mm . B & W India 

28 - 3 -74 

U 
Chairman Chala 4643 10 (18 ) Nirmala Enterprise , Shri L . Padmanabha 67494 
müyya ( Telugu ) 

Madras. 

Roddy, Madras . 
35mm . B & W India 

28 - 3 - 74 
Endorsoment on cert . No. 67494 -U di, 28 -3- 74 issuçd to the film Chairman Chalanayyu 

( Telugu ) 35mm . B & W . 

Longth applied - 4691 .17 Mts . 
Cuts. 
1. Reel 1 - Recluce Ranga molesting a girl to a suggestion (Retained 12 - 19 ) 

6 -39 
2 . Reel 1 - Delete teachor s snentence ‘Medrasu Mukhya Mantriga Chesina Kamaraj 
Nadaremi chadivudani , 

8 . 52 
3 . Reel 1 -- From the fighting sceno, delete Chalamiah torturing Ranga , twisting a 
ladder round his neck . 

5 .47 
4 . Reel 3 - Reduce Ranga whipping Chalamiah who is tied to a pillar . (Retained 
2 . 74 ) 

5 .17 
5 . Reel 3 — From the Karnam s dialogue , deleto the words " Poojurigari kooturu " . 

(Sound only - replaced approvod wordg). 
6 . Reel 6 - Delete Brahmam s dialogue to barber in the shaving saloon " Minister ayi 

choodu , ade oppukuntundi" . (Sound only - replaced approved words.) 
7. Reel 6 – Delete Brahmam s sentence " Chopparu " regarding townfoll not spcaking 

the truth . 
8 . Reel 7 - Delete Brahmum saying " Varu Prajanaykud ;” . Em Prajanayaku , Inka ) – 

no Assembly Samavesai Poorti Kalada ?" addressing a dog which is shown 

thore. 
9 . Reel 7 - Delete Brahmam s dialogue " Amma , inka nco Parliamont Samavosam 
poorti Kalkda ” asking the uss shown there . 

12 : 19 
10 . Reel 9 - Delete Brahmam s following sentonce to Kasturi " Gali kottalu andee " . 

" Enging vedi okkintundi noollu poyama ntara " . " Nce gunde na talagadi dindi" 
(Sound only _ replaced approved words). 


0 - 30 


- 


- - 


2198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 6 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 15 , 1897 ) [ PART IIl - - SEC , 4 


- 


- 


= = - = = 


- 


- 


. 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


+ - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- + 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 2 ) 


( 5) 


(6) 


(7) 


1 . 21 


7 .61 


1 :21 


11 . Reel 10 - Delete the jeep actually passing over a worker and Jagadish turning 

the dead body to a side with his log. (No objection to the dead body being shown ) 
12 . Reel 10 - Delete Jagadish telling the Colloctor " Podavallaku ideka jabbandee 

Prabhutyam Vari sahayam ponda vachukuda uni parti yoduvalla illu valle tag 
alabo itukuntunnaru , 
13 . Reel 12 – - Delere Punkulu saying to Chalumayya Prajulaku tula kooda lodu 

(Sound only - replaced approved words .) 
14 . Reel 17 - Delete Jagadish saying “ Ye Raja kocya nayakidoo ta nu gatruvuni pranalato 

vaduladu kuka " ( Sound only _ replaced approved words.) 
15. Reel 17 – From the lighting scono, deloc a man being strangled with a garden scissors 

put to his neck , 
16 . Reel 2 - From the picutrisation of gong, delete the following - Song 1 - Delete the 

shot of Ramush with his head just under the bottom of Radha who is on the 
tree. Reduce the shot of both face to face on a swing to a flash , avoiding the 
vicws of their thighs opposite to each other. 
(4 . 86 mts, replaced shot of trec and clouds) . 
Reel 9 -- Song 3 ( a ) Delete the close range shot of Kalpana having her breasts , 
before the song bogins (b ) Deleto tho posturo of Kalpana and the hero in a lip to 
lip kissing suggestion , 

(Replaced with fountain and flowers . 3 -64). 
17 . Reel 13 --- From the picturisation of song 4 at the liquor shop, (a ) delete Kalpana 

passing hor hand downward over her breasts on " Na " ; (b ) Delete her vulgar breast 
movements on the song linys " Deko Bulloda , and choosko doonavva ( first time) 
(c ) Kalpına s indecorous forward and backward naval jorks on " Esko bullodu " . 
(Replaced arruck shop and atmosphere shots 4 - 25 ). 


4 -86 


3 .64 


4 .25 


Total 


60 - 82 


M /8483 


P . E . 


Total replacernents 12 .75 Mts . 
Actual length will be 4643 10Mts , in 18 Roels. 

U 
Did you ever see such 241 .40 ( 1 ) Animal Welfare Board , British Films Ltd ., UK 67495 
il thing in your life 

Madras . 
( English ) (Colour ) 

29 -3 - 74 
16ınm . UK . 
Adavi Dongalu 

4546 .69( 18 ). Srikant Productions, Srikant Production U 
( Telugu ) 

67496 
(Colour) 

Madras , 

Madras . 
35m . India , 

29 - 3 - 74 


M /8503 


U 


M /850i 


" Preserve Sight ( Tamil) 

35mm . B & W . India , 


PE 


213 . 36 ( 1) Sri R . M . Krishna - Dr. Joseph s Eye Hospital, 67497 
swany, Madras . Trichirapalli , 

29 - 3 - 74 

U 
305 -00 ( 1) Tnc Directoratc of Tho Directorate of 67498 

Information & Public Information and Pub - - 
Relations , Madras . lic Relations Madras. 29 - 3 - 74 


M /8504 


PE 


Entha Nalu Kapom 
( Tamil) 35mm . B & W 
India . 


M /89415 


305. 00(1) 


- lo 


-do 


67499 


PE 


Visui Thelippan 
( Tamil) 35ınm . 
B & W . India , 


29- 3 -74 


M /8502) 


Trailor of Chandana 
( Telugu ) 35mm . 
B & W . India , 


121 . 92 ( 1) Sridhar Combines , 

Madras. 


Sridhar Combines , 

Madrus . 


67500 


29 - 3 -74 


M / 8491 


Jothi- Lakshmi ( Tamil) 3344 . 25 (14 ) R . M . S . Pictures , R . M . S . Pictures , 

67501 With cuts . 
( Tamil) 35mm . B & W 

Madras. 

Madras. 
India . 

30 - 3 - 74 
Endorsoment on cort. No. 67501 - U dt. 30 -3 -74 issued to the film Joghi Lakshmi ( Tamil ) 35mm . B & W . 

Longth applicd . 3344 - 25 Motros . 
Cuts , 

Mts. 
Reel 1 - -[ n the song beginning " Enna Paarl Roja – Then Vadiyum Vanna Roja . . . " , 

delete ( ul ) Indh .2 Jodi Madiyil Kudiyeru, Nittam Neeyum Noolidai Mel Nindrudu. - 
and (b ) Then irudhun Nannairen Nooradada . (Sound only - approved rcplaced 
text) 
Actual length of the film remains 3344 .25 Metres in 14 Recls Total 

- - - 


- 


- 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 2199 
- - - - - -- - . - - - - - 

T - 7 - - - -- - 7GITIN 5 - ST . 

me I 


- - - 


- - 


- 


Particulars of films Certified or Refused Certification by the cranial Boad of Film Sensors 

During the week Ending 6th April, 1974 


BOMBAY 


U 


1 / 71655 - 60 


" I ve Tried Them All" . 

( 35mm .) (Colour ) 


72 .86 ( 1) M s Trio Films, Jyoti M /a Trio Films Jyoti 74709 ( Valid for Foglish , 

Studio , Kennedy Studios , Kennedy - -- . - - - Hindi, Bengali and 
Bridge Bombay - 7 . Bridge Bombay- 7 , 2 - 4 - 74 Assanesc , Tomil 

and 

Talugu 
evisions.) 

U 
225 . 78 ( 1) J; pan Air Lines Co . Mi. Akiyama of Tomo - 74710 

Lid . 86 , Vir -Nariman hiro Gajken Co. Ltd ., – 
Road , Bombay - 20 . 

2 -4 - 74 


B /71653 


"O kinawas Ocean 
Expo 75 " (Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 16mm .) ( Ja 
pan ) 


B / 71673 


" Jhumroo" 
( 35nim . ) 


(Hindi) 


808 00 (3 ) Children s Film So - Children s Film So- 

ciety . of India , ciety . Bombay - 18 . 
Tirgorami House , 
Bombay - 18 . 


74711 

- 
2 - 4 .74 


P.E. 


B /71674 


465 . 22 (2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74712 


P . E . 


" Pandit Bhola Nath " 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


2 - 4 - 74 


B /71756 


" Violence, What Pri. 
ce ? Who Pays ?” (No. 
2 ) (No. Commen 
tary ), (Music Effects 
only ) ( 35min .) 


U 
53 . 00( 1 ) Filmns Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt. 74713 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar — 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Roach, Bombay - 26 . 2 -4 - 74 


U 
74714 


B /71735 


301 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1329 " (Southern 
Edition ) (35mm .) 


3 - 4 - 74 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Tamil, 
Telugu, Kannada , 
& Malayalam 
versions.) 


B /71754 


U 
74715 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1329 " ( 35mm .) 


212 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


3 - 4 - 1974 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, ASSE 
mese, 

Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali, 
Kashiniri, & Urdu 
versions.) 


B /71677 


74716 


Not, P . E . 


" Cold Rodders " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) (16mm ) 
(Canada ) 


175 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 
Delhi-21. 


4 - 4 -74 


B /71645 


58 . 00 ( 1) 


74717 


Not, P . E . 


" Charley Squash 
Goes To Town " ( En 
glish ) (Colour) (16 
mm .) (Canada ) 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71658 


125 . 00 (1 ) 


74718 


P . E . 


“ Doodle Film " (En 
glish ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


4 - 4 - 74 


B /71713 


264 .00 (1) 


74719 


P . E , 


" Medium is The Mc 
ssage You Know " 
( English ), (Colour ) 
( 16ının . ) (Canada) 


4 - 4 -74 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


2200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEC . 4 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


1 


2 


3 


5 


B /71705 


183 - 00( 1 ) 


P . E . 


" For You Mr, Boll" 
( English ) (Col.) (16mm ) 
( Canada ) 


Canadian High Comm - National Film Board 74720 
ission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri Canada. 

4 - 4 -74 
New Delhi-21 

U 
74721 


B /71712 


248 . 00 (1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


" Mechanical Kneo " 
(Eng.) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


- PE. 


B /71744 


4 -4 - 74 

U 
269 -61( 3 ) Comel, Sandhurst Encyclopaedia Brita - 74722 

Bridge U . P . Road , nica Edu . Corpora - - - 
Bombay - 7 . tion . 

4 - 4 - 74 


- 


“ Fundamentals of 
Boundary Layors " 
(English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . C . 


B /71748 


364 . 24 (3) 


Do. 


Do. 


74723 


P . E . 


4 - 4 - 74 


" Low Reynolds La 

grangian Descrip 
tiops in Fluid Mo 
chanics " (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


1 /71746 


319 . 43 (3 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


74724 


– 


P . E . 


“ Project Discovery ; 

A Demonstration 
in Education " (Eng.) 
(Col.) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


4 - 4 - 74 


B /71745 


(English ) 
( 16mm .) 


342 . 90 (3) 


" Cavitation " 
(Colour) 
(USA .) 


Do. 


U 
74725 

m 
4 - 4 - 74 


P , E , 


U 


B /71711 


" Louisbourg " (Eng. 
llsh ) (Colour ) ( 16mm . 
(Canada ) 


230 -00 (1) Canadian High Com - 

mission , Shanti Path , 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Dolhi-21, 


National Fillm Board 74726 
of Canada, Govt. of - - 
Canada. 

4 - 4 -74 


P . E . 


B /71707 


159 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


U 
74727 


" High Stcol" (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
(Canada) 


- 


P . E . 


4 - 4 - 74 


U 
74728 


B /71709 


255 . 00 ( 1) 


" Keepers of Wild 

Life ( English ) (Co 
lour) (16mm .) (Canada) 


- 


P . E . 


4 - 4 - 74 


B /71706 


319 .00 ( 1) 


74729 


" Hero is Canada" 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm . ) (Canada.) 


P . E . 


4 - 4 -74 


B /71704 


579 -00(2) 


74730 


" Eskimo- Fight for 
Lifo" (Eng.) ( Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


- 


P.E . 


4 -4 - 74 

U 
74731 


B / 71676 


153 •00 (1) 


" Christmas At Moose 
Factory " (Eng .) (Col) 
( 16mm . (Canada ) 


P . E , 


4 - 4 -74 


U 


B /71710 


501 00(1) 


" Ladies & Gentlemen 
Mr. Leonard Cohon " 
(Eng.) (16mm .) (Ca 
nada ). 


74732 

- - 
4 -4 - 74 


P.E . 


B /71674 


169 -00 ( 1 ) 


U 
74733 


“ Adelaide Villago" 

(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


4 -4 - 74 


IT 


B /71732 


574 .00 (2 ) 


74734 


" Shocr Sport" ( En . 
glish ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada) 


- 


P.E . 


5 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71676 


626 .00 ( 2 ) 


74735 


" Buster Keation Rides 

Again ” (English ) (16 
inm . ) (Canada ) 


Not P . E . 


5 - 4 - 74 


PART III - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2201 


LJU - 


14 -44- sex - ve 


wit h me 


vu4iLL 


2 


4 


1 /71727 


75 . 00 (1 ) 


P . E . 


" Owl And Tho Lem 
ming- An Eskimo 
Logend " (English ) 
(Col.) (16 min .) 
(Canada ) 


Cenadian High Commt- 
ssion , Shanti Path , 
Chanakyapuri New 
Delli -21. 


U 
National Film 74736 
Board of Canada , - - - 
Govt. of Canada . 5 -4 -74 


B / 71730 


71 .00 (1) 


V 
74737 


P . E . 


" Redovolopment In 
Windsor Ontario " 
(Eng.) (Col. ( 16nim .) 
( Canada ) 


5 -4 - 74 


U 


B / 71708 


184 .00 (1 ) 


74738 


Not P . E . 


" Re-devolopmont, 180 

Max " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
(Canada ). 


5 - 74 


B /71675 


317 -00 (1 ) 


U 
74739 


Not P . E . 


" Assignment North 
west " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


5 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71719 


69 . 00 ( 1) 


74740 


P . E . 


" La Poulette Grise 
(Chanson De Chez 
Nous " (Fronch ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


5 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71728 


1 $ 2 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


74741 


P . E . 


" Quostion of Immil 
nity " ( English ) 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
( Canada ) 


5 - 4 - 74 


B /71079 


riot 


U 
74742 


" Glimpses of Kashmir 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) 


P , E . With 
triangle mark . 


121 . 92 (1 ) National Education National Education 

& Information Films & loformation Films 
Ltd ., NationalHouse Ltd ., Bombay- 1. 
Tulloch Road , 
Apollo Bundor , 
Bombay- 1. 


6 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 121 . 92m . 

Delete the incorrect map of Indiu showing Laccadiv and Andaman islands. — 2 .40m . 
(Replaced with approved map : 2 . 40 m .) 
Length of the film remains unchanged . I. e . 121 .92 m . 


B / 71729 


74743 


P . E . 


" Question of Tolovigion 

Vollonco " (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm ) 
(Canada ). 


633 . 00 (1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 
Delhi-21. 


6 -4 - 74 


B /71765 


U 
74744 


" Musha hira " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 


30 -48 (1) Durga Khoto Produc- Durga Khoto Produc 

tions, India Holgo , tiong. India House , 
Opp . GPO . Bombay- l opp . GPO Bombay- 1. 


6 - 4 - 74 


B /71369 


74745 


" Sugandhi Katta " 
(Marathi) (35mm .) 


4114 - 88 ( 15 ) Chitra Mauli, 125 / 1 Ram Kadam , Yasin S . 

Prabhat Nagar , Fatelal, Poona -4 , 
Poona -40 


6 -4 - 74 


The 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 . 

B / 71681 
Film : " So Good To Grow Up With " (English ) 
U - Cert . No. 72533 of 13 -5 - 1973. 
This certificato is also valid for Telugu , Kannada , Tamil and Malayalam vorsicns of the film in colour. 

longth of the film remains unchanged , 
This certificato was endorsed on 2nd April, 1974 . 
B /71257 
Tilm : " Badla " (Hindi) (Colour) 

A -Cert . No. 3218 of 7 - 3 - 1974 
Reel No . 17: Deleted various shots : 62 . 00 meters . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3710 .00 m 
This certificato was ondorsed on 3rd April , 1974 . 

- 

- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2202 


- 


ī 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


TALVEITE OF INDIA , DECIMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAUAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III - Sec . 4 
- - - - - - - - - - - - = - = 

- - = = - - - - - - - - - 

= - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 

- - - - 
4 
- - - - - 

- - - - 
B /71725 -6 , B /71766 -67 
Illmı; " Unche Ghar Ki Shobha " (Hiacı) 
U -Cent. No . 74440 of 4 - 3 -1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Gujarati, Marathi, Kannada and Telugu veisiong of the film in colour. The 
length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was ondorsed on 3rd April, 1974 , 
B /71726 
Tilm : “ Pure And Gentle " (Leg.) 
U -Cort. No, 74443 of 4 - 3- 1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil version of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unchangel, 

This certificate was endorsed on 4th Apul, 1974 . 
B /71613 
Film : " Peera Hure, Achha Kare " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No . 74625 of 22 -3 - 1974 . 

Corrections :- The film is in Black and White and not in colour as stated in the obverse of the certificate . 

This cei tificate was ondoiged on 4th Apul, 1974 . 
B / 71305 
Film : " Chor Machayo Shior ” (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 74499 of 18 -3 - 1974 

Reel No , IV Deleted various shots : 1 . 83m . 
Reel No. XV : Deleted various shots : 5 .49m , 
XV : added various shots : 7 . 32n . 
Length of deletions : 7 - 32 m . 
Length of additions : 7 . 32 m . 
Length of the filni remains unchanged i. e. 3996 . 53 m , in 15 reels, 

This cortificate was endorsed on 4th April, 1974 . 
B /71769 
Film : “ Path of Progress " ( English ) 
U -Cert . No. 73203 of 24 - 8 - 1973 . 

This cortificte is also valid for Marathi version of the film in colour . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th April, 1974 . 
B /71543 - 47 
Film : " Dure The Sun " (English ) 
U - Cert. No, 74497 of 18 - 3 -1974 

This certificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu , Bengali, Kannada and Mulayalam versions of the film in colour. 
The longth of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was ondorsed on sth April , 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /7728 


73399 


P . E . 


Culture Organotypi- 

quc in - Vitro De Tu 
mears Malgnes Hu 
maines ( English ) ( Co 
lour) 16mm -France 


268 .00 (1) Cultural Counsellor, Le Laboratoire D 

French Embassy, New Embcryologic Experi 
Delhi, 

inentale Du C . N , R . 
S . Et Du College Do 
France. 


1 -4 - 74 


C /7733 


230 . 00 (1) 


Do . 


U 
73400 


Scmeiologie Des Affoc 
tions Do La Glando 
Mammaire (English ) 
(Colour ) ( Francc .) 


Societe D Informution 
Et De Recherche Par 
L Enseignement Medical, 


Et De RechercheProto 


1- 4 - 1974 


P.E. 


U 


C / 7991 


Shangineo (Bengali ) 
(35mm . (India ). 


73401 


3992 - 88 (15) Sonali Production Dinon Gupta , 

58 / 32A , Prince An 
vargha Road, Calcutta 45 . 


3 -4 - 1974 


MADRAS 


U 


M /8343 


91 .44 (1) Mukesh Enterprises. 


Mukesh Enterprises. 


67502 


Trailor of Harekrishna 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm . (India ). 


1- 4 -74 
U 
67053 


M /8472 


3298 - 15 (14 ) 


Productions , 


Productions, 


"Monagallu Moga gallu 
(Telugu ) ( 35min .) 
(B & W ) ( India .) 


V . S . 
Mudras. 


V , S . 
Madras . 


With cuts . 


1 -4 - 74 


- - 


-- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2203 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


an 


2 :43 


Endorsement on cert. No, 67503 -U dt. 1-4.74 issued to the film Monagallu Mosagallu (Telugu ) 35mm . B & W 
Length applied . 3352. 00 Metres. 
Cuts . 

Metres. 
1 . Reels 2 & 3 - Delete tho shot in which Nagu and party shop off the hand of & 

villa gor and the leg ofanother in their first raid on the village. 
Deloto also the shot in which the man, whose leg wag cut off , 
19 reacting. (Retained 0 . 60 ). . . . . . . 

0 .91 
2 . Reel 3 - Reduce the shot in which Balaramayya is " shot on the chest 
and le falls down . (Retained 0 .91) 

0 . 91 
3. Reel 3 -- Reduce the shooting spree in which ton of Nagu s men aro shot 
dead . (Retained 2 .43 ). . , , , , , , , 

6 :39 
4 . Reel 4 In the confrontation betwoen Nagu s gang and tho villagers, reduce 

the fight and shroting, doleting gruesome shots. (Rotained 2 - 13 ) . 
5 . Reel 5 - Delete the shots in which Nagu s horses run ovor Durgamma s 

palms after she is taken aiptive and thrown on the field . . . 2 .74 
6 . Reel 6 - Delete the shots in which dead bodies are seen hanging on the 

walls . (Once when Ramu arrives in tho village and when one of 
tho bodlos is removed ) . . . . . . . . 

0 .91 
7 . Reel 9 - -Reduce the fight between Nagu s gang and tho villagers , deleting 

all gruogome shots including the shots in which a villager hiding 
in a plt is dragged out, his hands held bohind und his head shaven . 
(Retainod 0 -30 ). . . . . . . . . . 

0 -91 
8 . Reel 9 – - In the subsequent fight between Nagu s men and Ramu s party , 

delete gruesome shots , including the once in which a dacoit s head 

is shaven by Ramu s men when they even spit on his head. , . 15 - 24 
9 . Reel 9 _ From the cabaret Item , delete the shots in which the female dancer 
makos indecorous gestures . . 

3 .04 

. . 
10 . Reel 10 --Reduce the fight between Nagu s gang and Ramu s party , 
deleting gruosomo shots . 

1 - 21 

. . . . . . . 
11. Reel 11 -- -Reduce considerably the shots in which Ramu s mçn press the 

nock of Nagu s men , (guarding the snake pit) with the boot and 

crush him to death , (Retained , 1 .82) . 
12 . Reel 12 – Roduce the scene in which Durgamma s son la tortured in the snake pit 

(spocially deleting the shot taken from below in which four 
cobras are seen at the same time with the child in themiddle .) 
(Retained 1 . 82 ). 

0 .91 


6 .09 


13. Reel 12– After Durgamma is rescurd, reduce the fight between Nagu s gung 

and Ramu s mcn , deleting gruesome shots . 


0 . 91 


14 . Reel 13 – Delete the shot in which one of Nagu s men s hands are twisted , 

his tonguo comes out and ho falls doad. . 


1 .52 


15 . Reel 13 – Reduce considerably the scene in which Nagu s men shootMalla , 

when bullets pouring on his body, his rolling sidoways in agony 
and the ncar views of his blood scared body , Reduce also tho 
shots in which his body is seen hanging from a troo branch . (Re 
tained 2 : 13 ) . . . . . . 

. . . 


3 . 95 


16 . Reel 14 - Reduce the fight between Nagu s gang and Ramu s party , 

particulary doleting gruosome shots including tho once in which 
a man s hand and another s leg are cut off. (Retained nil) . . . 


5 . 78 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


, 


, 


53 . 85 


Alctuallength of the film is 3298 -15 Metres in 14 Reels. 


U 


M /8506 


" Tamilnadu Govt . 
Regl. Nows Bulletin 
113 (Tamil ) (35mm .) 
( B & W ) (India .) 


305 . 00 ( 1 ) Tho Directornto of Tho Directorate of 67504 

Information & Public Information & Public - - 
Relations, Madras. Relations, Madras . 1 - 4 - 74 


M /8500 


U 
5398 00(19) Shri Bhaskara Chitra , Shri A . Pundarika- 67505 
Madras. kshayya, Madras , - 

2 - 4 - 74 


Manushullo Dovudu 
( Telugu ) (Partly 
(Coloured ) ( 35mm .) 
( India .) 


With cuts. 


- - 


~ 


- 


- 


~ 


943696I/75 


2204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ,DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [Part III — Sec. 4 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


__ (3 


(3 ) 


(4) 


( 6 ) 


Endorsement on cert. No. 67505 - U dt. 2 -4 -74 issued to the film Manushullo Dovudu ( Tolugu ) ( Part ly colour). 
Length applied , 5412 .00 Metres . 
Cuts . 

Matras . 
Reel 16 - - Reduce Muralimolesting Scotha to a suggestion , doleting the shots 

of both struggling on bed and also the shots showing their intortwia 
od logs , otc . (Rotálnod 11 . 28) . 


TOTAL 


14 - 00 


M /8471 


Actuallength of film is 5398 .00 Metres in 19 Recls. Colour portion /s 422 .44 Mts. In reel No. 4 & 5 . 
The balance of 4975 . 56 Metres is in Black & White. 

U 
Trailer of Monagallu 80 -76 ( 1) V . S . Productions, V . s . Productions, 67506 
Mosagallu ( Telugu ) 

Madras. 

Madras 
( 35mm .) (B & W ) 

2 - 4 - 74 
(India . ) 

U 
Trailer of Hum Shak 94 .25( 1) Olympic Pictures Olympic Pictures , 67507 
kal (Hindi) (Colour) 

Madras. 

Madras . 
(35ınm .) (India ) 

5 - 4 - 74 


M /8511 


M /8507 


Vani Rani ( Tamil) 3990 -16( 15) Vijaya Productions, Vijaya Productions, 67508 with cuts . 
(Colour) ( 35mm .) 

Madras. 

Madras , 
( india .) 

5 - 4 - 74 
Endorseinont on cert, No. 67508-U dt. 5-4-74 issued to the film "Vani Rant (Tamil) (Colour) 35mm . 
Length applied . 3993 .80 Metres . 
Curs . 

Mts. 
1. Reel 1--- Delete dialogue of doctor “ Pillai Pera Neram Kalam Illaya" . . 3 :04 
2 . Reel 10Delete the girl in swimming dress , her thighs etc . ( the shot 
through her legs.), 

0 - 60 
TOTAL . . . 

. . . 3 . 64 
Actual length of film will be 3990 .16 Metres in Ree s. 


M/8510 


M /8510 


logement 


M /8509 


" Leelarani Iruthiya 93 - 26 ( 1 ) Chetana Enterprises , Chotana Enterprises , 67509 
thirai ( Tamil) 35mm 

Madras , 

Madras. 
( B & W .) ( India ) 

5 - 4 -74 

A 
Geetha ( Tamil) 3672 . 22 (15 ) 

Do. 

3301 
( 35mm ) ( B & W ) 

5 - 4 - 74 
Particulars of Films certified or refused certification by the Central Board of Film Censors during the week ending 13th April, 1974 

BOMBAY 


Do. 


India ). 


B /71487 


" Dost (Hindi) (Col.) 4828 - 14 ( 17 ) Mr. Premnath Man - Mr. Premnath Map 74746 With triangle mark , 
( 35mm . ) 

chanda , Hill View chanda, Hill View 
No . 2 , 241- Hill Rd ., No . 2 , 241-Hill Road , 8 -4 - 74 
Bombay- 50 . 

Bombay -50 . 
Endorsemcrt 
Original Longth : 4857 .06m . 
Cur Reel 
Ne . No. 
1 . IV : In the drinking scene , delote the reference to morarjibhai whilo pointing towards Manay as a teetotaller. (Deleted 

sound only ). (Replaced with approved words) . 
2. VII : In the dialogue of Kajal delete the words " bastard and its repetition. (Deleted sound only ). 
3. XI : In the scene of a Khandala hotel, delete the entire scene of an unmarried nude couple in hed and their trying 

to put on some clothes . — 213m . 
4 . XIII : Reduce considerably beating of Gopi by birelings of monte -- 10 - 13m . (Length retained : 8 - 84m .) 
5 . XIV : Reduce the fight between Manav and Monto s gang, deleting gruesomeshots. — 6 . 17m . (Length retained . 21 64m .) , 
6 . XVII : Reduce fight between Manav, Gopi, and gangsters and Kajal s father - 7 .52m . (Length retained : 23 - 47m .) 
7 . XVII : Delete the suggestion of intentionally locking up the child in an iron safe — 5 - 10m . (Replaced with approved 

shots : 2 . 13m . ) 
Length of deletions : 31 .05m . 
length of approved replacement : 2 -13m . 
Actual length of the film after the afiresald aloerations will be : 4828 -14m . in 17 reels, 


PART III – ŠEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 


2205 


- 


-- 


- -- - - - 


- - ---- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


4 


5 


B /71718 


74747 


" Pinscroen " 
(Colour) 
(Canada) 


(English ) 
( 16mm .) 


443 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission, Shanti Path , of Canada, Govt. of 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada , 
Delbi-21. 


8 - 4- 74 


B /71738 


163 ·00(1) 


Do . 


U 
74748 


Do , 


PE 


" Underground Movie" 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (Canada ) 


8 - 4 - 74 

U 
74749 


B /71735 


118 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


" Sunny Munchy 
Crunchy Natural 
Food Shop " ( English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
(Canada) 


8 - 4 - 74 


B /71662 


Plant 


Nutrient 


677 - 57 (3) 


74750 


Nitrogen Phos 
phorus Potassium " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


Jagdish Banerjee , 2 - 
Bhavançshwar Ter- 
race , Worli Naka, 
Bombay -18 . 


Jagdish Banerjco , 2 
Bhavaneshwar Ter- — 
race , Worli, Naka , 
Bombay- 18 . 


8 -4 -74 


U 


B /71736 


РЕ 


" Tilt " (English ) (Col.) 
( 16mm .)( Canada ) 


219 . 00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 74751 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada, Govt. of - - 
Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 

8 - 4 - 74 
Delhi- 21 . 


B /71739 


101 .00 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do . 


74752 


P . E . 


" What Is Lifo " (Eng.) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada ) 


8 - 4 - 74 


T 


B /71793 


74753 


" Self Reliance In 
Aeronautics " ( Eng .) 
( 33mm .) 


609 .58 ( 2 ) M , V . Krishnaswamy M . V . Krishnaswamy, 

68 - 1V Main Road , Bombay- 3 . 
Bombay- 3. 


8 - 4 - 74 


B /71760 


74754 


P . E 


" Behind The Bread 
line " (Eng .) ( Colour) 
(35mm .) 


794 . 31 (3 ) Shri Gopal Ki Maha - Shri S . Sukhdev , United 

resh GeneralMana. Film Arts , Bombay - 18 . 
gor, M / s United Fila 
Arts , 14 Rock House , 
Worli , Hill , B bay- 18 , 


9 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71751 


B / 71353 


" The Hare Krishna 350 - 32 (3) International Society John Priesser, 

74755 nct P . E . 
People " ( English ) 

for Krishna Consci 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) ousness, Juhu , Bom 

9 -4 - 74 
(USA ) bay - 54 . 

U 
" Pugli " (Hindi) (Col.) 3387 .70 ( 14 ) Asha Art International Yusuf Hasan . 

74756 With triangle mark . 
( 35mm .) 

5 - Tulsi Khar Pali 
Road , Bombay - 52 , 

9 - 4 - 74 
Endorsement : 

Original Longth : 3516 -43m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. I : ( 2 ) Delete prominent views of the thigh in a suggestive shot and indecent movement of the dancer Rajani jn 

the song boginning with the words " Dhak Dhak Dhadko kya karoo re dil . . . . " 2 . 07m . (Replaced with 

approved shots). 

(6 ) Delete the view of kissing belwoon Rajani and Ramesh . — 1 .78m . 
2 . II : (a ) Delete the kisses - 0 . 47m . 

(b ) Reduce drastically the scene of close proximity betwcen Ramesh and Rajani, their hugging, embracing 

etc., behind the somi-transparent plastic curtain . — 5 - 18m . (Length retained : 2 : 13m . ) 
3. III : Reduce the torture and views of blood-smeared face of Pagli (Gouri) and reduce the prominent views of the 

oude painting in the background. - - 17 . 75m . (Length rotained 26 . 21in .) 
4 . IV : Delete the abusive words " Saala " " Saalo " wherever they appear in dialogucs. (Deleted sound only.) 
$. VII : Delete the abusive words " Saale" " Haramzade " " Idiot" and " Bastard " (Deleted sound only ). 
6 . IX : Reduce the fight between Raja and the goondas reducing the threatening thrusts of broken bottle and holding 

of broken bottle at the throat and prossing against spiked tree as also sccnc of strangling by craapers. 34 . 02m . 

( Length retained : 40 : 50 ) 
7 . X : (a ) In the pondscene delete the sentence " Aa majha kar le" spoken by Gouri 1 . 28m . 

(b ) Reduce the fight between Raja and Goondas reducing the strangling between branched trunks of trcos 

13 .87m . (Length retained : 33 . 22m .) 


- - 


mur 


2206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III- - Sec . 4 

- - = = - =- 


SS 


- - 


- 


-- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


3 


8 . XIII : Delete the views of scantily clad Susie both in indecent dance movements from front and behind and when 

Ramesh tries to embrace her. — 19 -88m . 
9 . XV : Reduce the fight between Ramesh and Raja in the ruins. . - 34 .50m . (Length Tetajned : 47 .86m .) 

Longth of deletions ; 130 - 80m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 :07m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3387 . 70 m . IN 14 Reels. 


U 


B / 71803 


74757 


" Who Pays Tho Prico " 
(English ) ( 35mm .) 


60 -00 (1)) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay -26 . Bombay - 26 . 


9 - 4 - 74 


B / 71804 


60 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do 


74758 


Not P . E . 


" Violenco -What Price ? 
Who Pays ?" (No. 3) 
(No Commentary , 
music & offocts only) 
(35mm ) 


9 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71775 


74759 


P . E . 


“ Establishing Work 
Standard Sampling " 
(Eng.) (Col.)( 16mm .) 
(USA ). 


273 . 00 ( 2 ) AMA Education , Pyt . University of Califor 

Ltd ., Dr. D . N . Road , nia , Ext. Media . 
Bombay -40001 . 


10 -4 -74 


U 
74760 


B /71805 


" Indian News Review 

No , 1330 " (35mm .) 


182 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


10 - 4 -74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil , Telugu , 

Tamil , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Assa 
moso, Oriya , Pun 
jabi, Bengali , 
Kashmiri & Urdu 
Versions). 


U 


B /71806 


278 .00 (1) 


Do , 


Do . 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1330 " ( W . E .) 
(35mm .) 


74761 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Gujarati, 
10 -4 - 74 Marathi & Sindhi 

versions ) . 


B /71811 


74762 


" Fifth Five Year Plan 
of the State " (Urdu ) 
(35mm .) 


271 27 ( 1) Films & Photo Officer, Dir. of Information , 

Dept. of Information , Jammu & Kashmir 
Govt. of J , & K . 

Govt . 


10 -4 74 
U 
74763 


B/71810 


“ News Reel No , 33 " 
(Urdu ) ( 35mm .) 


310 - 23 (1) 


Do . 


Do , 


Do . 


10 -474 


B /71458 


205 .74 ( 1) 


74764 


P . E . 


“ Kisika Dar Nahia " 
(Hindi)( 35mm .) 


Topaz, Movics, 19 - Naina Thakur, Prop. 
Shivaji Park Bom - Topaz Movies . 
bay -28 , 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 
74765 


94765 


B /71790 


" Along The Roads of 

Lativiya " (English ) 
(35mm .)(USSR ) 


453 .00 (2) USSR Consulate Riga Film Studio . 

Gencral, 42- Nepoa . 
asea 

Road, 
Bombay-6 . 


10 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71791 


210 . 00 (2 ) 


Do . 


74766 


" After A Work Shift" 
(English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) 


Georgian Popular 
Scionco & Documen 
tary Film Studio , 


10 -4 - 74 
U 
74767 


B /71792 


236 -00 (2) 


Do . 


" Soviet Army No . 20 " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USSR ) 


Central Documen 
tary Films Studlo . 


10 - 4 - 74 

U 
74768 


B /71799 


89 .00 ( 1 ) 


" Trailer of Aap Ki 
Kagain " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


Filmyug Pvt. Ltd , Shri J. Om Prakash , 
Mayur , Tilak Road, Filmyug Pvt. Ltd ., 
Santacruz West Bombay - 54 . 
Bombay - 54 . 


10 - 4 -74 


U 
74769 


B / 71785 


" Moscow Film Review 
No. 4 " (Marathi, 
Bengali , Malayalam ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm ) 
(USSR ) 


112 . 00 (1 ) USSR Consulate 

Gencral 42- Nopean 
sea Road , Bombay-6 . 


Central Documçntary 
Film Studio . 


10 - 4 - 74 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2207 


T 


2 


5 


. 


B /71784 


278 . 00( 1 ) 


Cential Documentary 
Films Studio , 


U 
74770 


" Around The Sovict 
Union No. 104 " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) (USSR ) 


USSR Consulate 
Gcneral 42 
Neheansca Road , 
Bombay-6 . 


10 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71773 


74771 


" Lacto Calanine Ki 
Bahar " (Hindi)(Col.) 
(35mm .) 


30 .00 (1) Kamla 

Widescreen . 


Sharma, Mrs . Kamla Sharma, 

Widescreen . 


10 - 4 - 74 

U 
74772 


B / 71798 


" Rallimix " ( Englislı ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


30 .48 ( 1) MB. Telovision Radio 

& Motion Pictures, 
6 - A Rashmi Car - 
michal Road , Bom 
bay-6 . 


M /s . Tolovision Radio 

& Motion Picturos, - 
Bombay -6 . 


10 -4 -74 


B /71665 


U 
74773 


" Trailer of Hamrabi" 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm ), 


93 -88 (1) Sagar Art Corporation , Subhash Sagar , Natraj 

Natraj Studios , Studios, Bombay -60. - 
Kurla Road , An 
dheri, Bombay-69 . 


11 - 4 - 74 


B / 71669 


74774 


With triangle mark. 


" Tr . of Gharibi Ha 

tao " (Hindi) (Co 
lour) ( 35 mm . ). 


64 . 12 ( 1) 4 - V , Picturos Tuisi, R , K , Midha. 

30 , Road , Khar, 
Bombay - 52 . 


11 - 4 74 


Fndorsement 

Original Length : 65 -23 m . 
1. Doleto a reference by a Goonda " Kya gatha hua hadan hai tori bahonka yaar Agar usko bhi saath laate to aaj ki raat chandani 

raat ho jaati" , - 3 . 55 m . (Replaced with approved shot : 7 - 32 m .). 
2 . Dolota complotoly the molestation of a woman by a man including tho opening of her clioli etc . : 7 . 3 m , 

(Replacod with approved shot subject to tho following cut : 6 . 40 m .) 
Deleto tlo molestation of a girl by a man only koeping the word of the girl " Majn soch bhee nahin sakti thi ki tum itane gir jeogc" . 


3 . 96 m . 


Longth of doletione : 14 .83 m . 
Longth of approved replacement : 13 .72 m . 
Acrual length of the film after the aforesald will be ; 64 . 12 m . 


With trianglo mark . 


А 
B / 71600 " Do Number Ke 3956 - 28 ( 18 ) Mukul Enterprises , Ram Dayal & Diddos , 3222 
Amoor " (Hindi ) 

Ranjit Studios , Main Ranjit Studic Main - - 
( Colour) (35 mm .). 

Road , Dadar Bom - Road , Dadar Bom - 11- 4 - 74 
bay - 14 . 

bay - 14 . 
Endorsement 

Original Length : 3974 .28 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 


1. VI : Dolete roference o " Birla " being ablo to make tomples and tcmples not boing able to make Bit ]a. (Delotod sound only), 

(Replaced with approved words). 
2. VII : Roducc the fight between Ravi ard Pran s gang by deleting hard hitting shpts and kicks on the stomach and chine . - 1 .84 m . 

( Longth rtainod 40 . 54 m .), 
3 . IX ; In the hotel dancc deleto the shot where Hema puts her legs around the waist of Rabi.- 4 .05 m (Replaced with approved 

shots : 4 .05 m .). 
4 . XIJI : During the song " Do number ke ameer . . . . ” dolote the shot of Ajit Prasad kissing his mistress. -- 1 - 21 m . (Roplaced with 

approved shots : 1 : 21 m .). 
5 . XIII : Delote the last portion of tho dialogue botween two characteis where the man presses his hand over tho hoad of ancther and 

says " Promise......." with indecont suggestion . - 0 . 50 m . 
6 . XV : Reduce tho close up of Sunita s face and hand when she is borg raped by Pran including tho suggostivo shot of the hand 

oponing and showing the palm with blood. — 3 -48 m . (Length retained 2 .44 m .). 
7, XVI : Reduce drastically tho fight of roof top ..- 12 19 m . (Length retainod - 15 .06 m .). 
8 . XVII · The end ofthe film doos not show that a man who has amassod wealth by foulmeans suffer. As such the end may be suita 

bly modified . 
(Dolotod sound) (End has been modified by doloting some dialoguos and by ropouting a stanza of a song beginning with 
the word " A do fimber ko ameor " 

Length of deletions : 23 . 26 m . 
Longth of approved replacement : 5 . 26 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will de : 3956 -28 m . in 17 roels , 


2208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ Part III - SEC . 4 
- - - - - - - 

- -- -- - -- -- -- - . - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
3 


-- 


- - - 


- 


Endorsement under rule 34 

B / 71369 
Film " Sugandhi Katta " (Marathi) 
U - Cort. No, 74745 of 6 -4 - 1974 , 

Corrections : Tho length of the film on tho face of the certificato may bo roud as 4238 - 55 m . jistoad of 4114 . 88 M . 

This cortificate was endorsed on 8th April, 1974 , 
B / 71771 

Film : “ Baat The Hoat " ( English) 
U -Cert . No. 74678 of 27- 3 -1974 

This certificato is valid for Hindi vorsion of the film in colour. The length ofthe film romains unchangod , 

This certificate was ondorsed on 9th April , 1974 . 
B /71632 
Film "Whon Droam Comos Truo " (English ) 
U - Cert. No. 74656 of 25 -3- 1974 . 

The titlo ofthe alm on the face of the cortificato may bo road as “ Whon Dream Comos Truo alias Seeing Is Bollov 

ing" instead of “ When Droam Comos Truo" . 
Rool No. 1 : Deleted title " When Droam comes truo - 3 .00 m , Addod title " Sooing Is Bolioving 3 .00 m . The length 

of tho film remains unchangod . This certificate was ondorsed on 10th April , 1974, 
B /71802- 2 
Film : “ Hero s Proof For You " ( English ) 
U -Cort. No. 73241 of 1 - 9 - 1973. 

This cortificato is also valid for Kannada and Tolugu versions of the film in colour. The longth of the film remains 
wchanged . 
This certificato was endorsed on 11th April, 1974. 

CALCUTTA 


U 


C -7992 


73402 


Sodin Dujane (Ben - 

( 35 mm ) ( India ). 


3988 -01(15) Chalachitra Bharati Bibhuti Lahu and Shib 

393 / A Block G Narayan Dutta . 
New Aliporo Cal 
cutta - 53 . 


9 -4 - 74 


Endorsement , 

Original langth - 3, 988 - 01 
Reel 6 ; Doloto the words " Buro Shola " from 
Buro Shala erased - No change in length ). 


the djalogue of Arka Pratap roforring to his fathor (the word , 


C -7996 


Lifo of Buddha in Pro - 

SCOO9 ( English ) (35 mm ) 
India 


239 .27( 1) National Art Films Anupam Roy. 

Road No, 2 , Rajon 
dra Nagar, Patna - 16 


U 
73403 
- 
9 -4 - 74 


P . E . 


C -7997 


270 27 (1) 


Do , 


Do . 


Tho Folk Art of Vara 

pasi (English ) (33 
mm ) ( India ). 


73404 

- 
9 - 4 - 74 


P.E . 


U 


C -7995 


73405 


Fuluthakurma Bengali 
(35mm ) (India ). 


3624 . 06 ( 13 ) Sadhan Films Naba - Merinal Kanti Roy, 

pally Colony Moro, 
Baiaset. 


P . E . 


9 -4 - 74 


C - 7999 


202 -69 ( 1) Lakshmi Productions , 

Gauhati. 


LakshmiProductions, 

Gauhati. 


73406 


Rajdhani Aru Ekhan 
Mohanagaror Jad 

ina (Assamese ) 
(35 mm ) (India ). 


9 -4 - 74 


C - 8000 


324 - 59 (1) 


U 
73407 


Do , 


Do , 


Spandan (Aşgamoso ) 

(35 mm ) ( India ). 


9 -474 


MADRAS 


M -8516 


U 
67510 


Dharmavijayamu 
( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 
(35) mm , (India ). 


30 - 48 ( 1) Cine Ads, Corpn . Cine Ads, Corpn , 
Sogundorabad , 

Socundorabad , 


9 -474 


M - 8469 


3991 35 (15) Olympic Pictures, 

Madras, 


Pictures , 


" Hum Shakal (Hindi) 

( Colour) (35 mm ) , 
(India ). 


675117 With cuts , 


Olympic 

Madras, 


10 - 4 -74 


PART III __ Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2209 

--- 


* * - = 


- = 


- = - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 
- - 


- - - - 
- - - 


_ 


- 


- 


- 


- 


wut - 


- - 


2 


3 


- 


- 


- - - 


Endorsement on cort. No, 67511- U datod 10th April 1974 — işuod to tho film " Humn Shakal (Hindi) (Colour ). 

Length applied . - 3993 . 16 Meters . 


ats 


1. Reel 2 - Dolote Sagar s shooting down of a girl at point blank ranga , 
2 . Reel S - Doloto shot of tho iuffian a Angor in the socket of tho lamp to gol aloctrocuted , 
3 . Reel 6 – Doloto Lakshman s kiss on the cheok of Radha . 


Mts. 
1 . 21 
0 . 30 
0 .30 


TOTAL 


M - 8514 


M -8514 


Actual length of the film will be : 3991 : 35 Metres in 15 Reels . 

MADRAS 
" Tula Bharam ( Telu - 4224 :52 ( 18 ) Sri Ramana Chitral , Sri Ramana 
qu ) ( 35 mm ) ( B & W ). 

Madras, 

Madras. 
( India ). 


Chitra , 


67512 


quang 


10 - 4 -74 


U 


M - 8523 


1089 - 25 (4 ) 


Vandikkari (Malaya 

lam ) ( 35 mm ) B & W 
( India ). 


Neela Productions, Noola Productions 
Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum 


67513 


10 -474 


U 


10.4- 74 


M -8517 Potash — The Indis 541 . 93 (2 ) Krishnaswamy ASO - Krishnaswamy Asso 67514 
pensahto Plant Food 

ciates ( P ) Ltd , Madras, ciutos (P ) Ltd . Madras, - + 
( Tamil ) (Colour ) 

10 -4 - 74 
(35 mm ) (India ). 

U 
M - 8518 & 19 Tribal Lifo in Kerala 640 . 50 ( 2 ) Filmugo, Trichur, Shri Azees Trichur, 67515 
English & 

Kerala . Korala , 

P . E . 
Malayalam (Colour) 

10 - 4 - 74 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 

U 
M -8520 Bridging the Gap 30 -48 (1 ) Do. 

Do. 

67516 
* 21 ( English Mala 
yalam ) (Colour) (35 

10 -4 - 74 
mm ) ( India ). 

U 
M - 8522 10 & outs ( English ) 30 -48 (1) Do. 

Do , 

67517 
( Colour) (35 mm ) 
( India ). 

10 -4 - 74 

U 
M - 8542 Tamilnadu Govt. Ro 205 . 00 (1 ) The Directorato of Tho Directorate of In 67518 
gional Nows Bullo 

Information & Public formation & Public – 
tio 114 " (Tamil) (35 

Rolations, Madras . Relations, Madras , 11-4 - 74 
mm ) B & W (India ). 

U 
M - 8533 Trallor of Adavi 92 . 96 ( 1 ) Srikant Productons , Srikant Productions, 67519 
Dongalu (Telugu ) 

Madras . 

Madras, 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 

12 -4 - 74 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF 
FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 20TH APRIL , 1974 . 

BOMBAY 


B / 71715 


" North of 60 East " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Canada ). 


P , E . 


319 . 00 ( 1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 74755 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada, Govt. - - 
Chanakyapuri New of Canada . 

15 - 4 - 74 
Delhi- 4 

U 
323 . 00 ( 1) Do. 

Ꭰo 

74776 


out.- 15-4-74 


p /71731 


" The Sca " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(Canada ). 


. " ала 


P. E . 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


/ 71734 


320 . 00(1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74777 


" Strcot of Salgaon " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) ( Canada ). 


P . E . 


15 - 4 - 74 
U 
74778 


B /71845 -7 


The Far Production 
Co ., Bombay- 6 . 


" Live Happy Foods 

From Dipy s" ( Eng 
Ilsh Hindl & Bengali) 
(Col.) (35 mm .). 


30 .48 ( 1) The Far Production 

Co . A -Rock Sido 
2nd Floor, Walkesh 
war Rd., Bombay -6 . 


15 -4 - 74 


B /71782 


" Subag Raat" (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm ) . 


U 
74779 


32 -61(1 ) Mahesh Jain , Sea J. Mahesh Art Films. 

View Hotel Room 
No. 31 . 


15 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71774 


" Trallor of Anjan 85 - 35 (1 ) Mohan Films, 

M /8 , Mohan Films, 74780 
Raahen " (Hindi) 

Sablok Mansion , — . - With trianglo mark. 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 

Khar, Bombay -52. 16 -4 - 74 
Endorsement, 

Original Length . - 89 . 31 m . 
Reduce the fights by deleting hard hits on the stomach , chest and head. – 3 .96 (Length retained . - 2 . 74 m .). 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 85 . 35 m . 


2210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — Sec . 4 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 


5 


- 


- 


- 


- 


katrao, Prabha- 


B /71764 


74781 


" Lord Bahu Ball " 
(English ) (16 nm .) . 


44781 


Not P . E . 


1028 . 22 (3 ) P . Venkatrao, Clo . P . Venkatrao, Prabha 

M /s, Modern - 16 Cine devi, Bombay -25. 
Lab . Pvt. Ltd ., Sahes 
Bldg . Prabhadevi, 
Bombay - 25 . 


16 - 4 -74 


U 


B / 71542 


“ Naya Savera " (Hindi) 
(16 nm .), 


74782 


Not P. E . 


342 - 28 (3) National Education National Education 

& Information Films & Information Films - - 
Lid ., National llouse, Ltd ., National Houso , 
Tullocli Road , Bom Tullock Road , Bom 
bay - 1 . 

bay- 1, 


16 -4 - 74 


B / 71880 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1331 " (Northern 
Edition ) (35 mm ). 


269 .00 (1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bonbay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


U 

74783 (Valid for Eng 
- - lish , Hindi, Kash 
17 - 4 - 74 mir , Punjabı & 

Urdu Versions). 


B / 71879 


" Indian Nows Raview 
No. 1331 " ( 35 min .). 


" dans toutes moriem 


182 00(1) 


182 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Bom 

buy - 26 . 


Do. 


74784 ( Valid for English , 

- -- Hindi, Marathi, 
17 - 4 - 74 Gujarati, Tamil, 

Telugu , Kannada , 
Malayalam , Assa 
mese , Oriya & 
Bengali.). 


B / 71895 


48 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do. 


74785 


P . E . 


“ VIOLENCE - What 
Price ? Who Pays ? 
No. 4 " (English ) 
(35 inm ). 


17 - 4 -74 


B /71882 


65 . 00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


74786 


“ VolenceWhat Price ? 
Who Pays No . S" 
(Hindi) (35 mm .). 


P . E , 


17 -474 


B /71677 


74787 


" Aap Ki Kasam " 
(Hindi) (Col.) ( 35 

m . ). 


4195 . 26 (16) Filmyug Pvt. Ltd ., Shri J. Om Prakash 

Mayur Tilak Road , 
Bombay - 54 . 


17 -4 - 74 


B /71764 


74788 


" Traller of Do Num 
ber Ke Amcor (Hindi) 
(Col.) (35 mm .). 


86 - 36 ( 1) Mukul Enterprises, Ram Dayal, C /o . 

Ranjit Studio , Dadar , Ranjit Studio , Dadar , 
Bombay - 14 . 

Bombay - 14 , 


17 -474 


B /71747 


E . B . Educational Corpn , 


74789 


" Bring the World to 

the Class room (Eng 
lish ) ( 16 mm ) 


213 . 11 (2) Comel, Sandhurst 

Bridge , V . P . Roud , 
Bombay - 7 . 


P . E . 


17 - 4 -74 


B /71750 


122 - 53( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


74790 


“ Work of the Kidnoys 
( English ) ( 16 mm .). 


P . E . 


17 - 4 - 74 


B / 71808 


74791 


“ Ankur " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


3742 . 34( 14 ) Bluze Film Enteiprises Blazc Film Enterprises 
Pvt. Ltd . 

Pvt. Ltd . 


17- 4 - 74 


B /71794 - 7 


" Around the Soviet 
Union No. 96 " 
(Colour ) (16 mm .). 


111 .00 ( 1) U . S . S . R . Consulate Central Documentary 

General, Bombay , Film Studio . 


U 
74792 ( Valid for Marathi, 

- Gujarati, Punjabl, 
18- 4 -74 Tamil & Telugu 

Vorsions .) 
U 
74793 


B / 71814 


86 - 86 (1 ) S . Kamruddin , 


Sultall , 


" Trailer of Dil Ki 
Rahen ” . (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


18 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71749 


" Problem of Conser 
vation Water " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) . 


178 . 92 ( 2 ) Comel, Sandhurst 

Bridge , V . P . Road , 
Bombay - 7 . 


Encyclopaedio Britan . 74794 
nica Educational nem 
Corpn . 

18 - 4 -74 


P . E . 


- 


- 


- - 


2211 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) 

- - - - 

- - - = = - - - - - - 
- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


= 


- 


= = - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- . : . 


- 
- -- 


- 
- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


B /70579 


" Dharmendar Plays 
Pocket Maar (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .). 


4176 . 70( 16 ) Ramesh Lakhanpal Cine Mander, 3 / 3 74795 

& Joginder, 38 - North Air Conditioned Ma - — - - - - With triangle mark . 
Bombay Society Sing ket, Tardco Bombay - 18 - 4 - 74 
Luthra , Juhu , Bomb- 34 . 


54 . 


Endorsement. 

Original Length 4210 .99 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 

1 : Delete the word " Maal" with referenco to a 16 year old girl, as spoken by 

Sunder . ( Deleted sound only ) (Roplaced with approyed words.) . , 
2 T : Delete the view of a foreign couplo kissing in the background of ono of the 
Superimposed titles , 

. . . . 

2 . 44 m . 

. . 
(Replaced with approved Shots. - 2 . 44 n 
3 II : Delete the references to " laglna " and " Jaana " in the dialogue spoken by 

Sunder in the restaurant. ( Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approved 

words ) 
4 VIII : Delete the suggestive words " Aap khush ho jaygoi" as spoken to Sheela by 
Sunder in the disguise of a Captain 

4 .50 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 .45 m .) 
5 . IX : (a ) Delete the words “ Nagpurki narangi,jaisi,musth jawani" as spoken by 
Madan s man to the blind girls 

0 .61 m . 
(0 ) Reduce the close punches in the fightbetween Shanker and Madan s man 3 :05 m . 

(Length retailed : 9 . 14 m .). 
6 . IX : (0 ) Delete the words to the following effect yttered by Madan s henchman 

to Ganga " Tumhare durwajepar aakar nain is husn aur jawani ko 

lootc bina hichala jioon ?" (Delete sound only ) 
(1 ) Reduce the scene where Madan s accomplice tries to molest Ganga 

2 . 43 in . 
(Length retained :2 .43 m .). 
7 . IX : Delete the words " garam " in the dialogue spokcn by Shaniker to Asha near 

the swimming pool. ( Deleted Sound only ) 
8 . X : Delete the closo hot of Shanker caressing the baro lege of Asha . 2 . 13 m . 

(Length l oplaced . 2 . 13 m .). (approved .). 
9 . XII : Reducc suitably the fightbetween Shanker and gangsters . . . 7 .92 m . 

(Length retained : 13 .42 n1 ) 
10 . XV : Reduce the torture of Shanker by dragging him with the help of Jeep 

2 . 13 m . 
(Length retilined : 6 : 10 m .) 
11. XVI : Reduce the dragging of Madan by Shanker and reduce the fight ,particularly 
close punches on face and stomach 

7 .92 m . 
(Length cluined : 53 . 04 m .). 
12 , XV & Reduce the fight between Shanker and Madan and his henchmen and rc 
XVI duce dragging of Shanker . 

6 . 18 m . 
(Length retained : 53 . 67 m .). 
Length ofdeletions, — 39 . 31 m . 
Length of approvod roplacement.- 5 .02 m . 
Actuallengih of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 4176 .70 m in 16 Reels . 

U 
“ Tastor , Higher, 212 .00 ( 2) U . S .S . R . Consulate Central Documentary 74796 
Stronger " ( 16 mm . ) 

General Film Studio 

— (Valid for English , 
( U . S . S . R .). 

18 - 4 - 74 Hindi, Marathi, 

Gujarati, Punjabi, 
Telugu , Kannada 
and Malayalam 

versions.). 

U 
" A Guest Is As a 60 .96 ( 1) Mr. Zafar Hai, Cine- Mr. Zafar Hai, Cine- 74797 
God " (Music only ) 

ral Communications , ral Communications, – 
( 35 mm .). 

kshma Bhavan , Bom Kshma Bhavan , Bom - 19 -4 - 74 
bay- 20 . bay- 20 . 

U 
" Winds of Fogo " 

Canadian High Con - National Film Board 74798 
(English ) (Colour ) mission , Shanti Path , of Canada, Govt. of - 

P . E . 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ). Chanakyapuri, New Canada . 

19 - 4 -74 
Delhi- 4 . 

U 
" Off Shore " (English ) 226 -00(1) 

74799 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(Canada ). 

19 - 4 - 74 


B /71816 - 23 


B /71813 


2171013 


20.30 


B /71741 


233 -00(1) Canadian High Com 


B / 71716 


Do . 


Do . 


P . E . 


137 - 001( 1) 


Do . 


74800 


B /71740 “ Wherc 

Smoko" 
(Colour) 

(Canada ). 
10 - 369G1/75 


There is 

(English ) 
( 16 mm .) 


P . E . 


19 -4 - 74 


- 


Jd 


. 


- 


- 


2212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III- — Sec , 4 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


I - 


-- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


B /71717 


74801 


" Oskęc Wee Woc" 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada), 


125 . 00 (1 ) Canadian High Commis - National film Board 

sion , Shanti Path , Chan - of Canada , Govt , of - 
akyapuri, New Delhi 

Canada , 


P . E . 


19 - 4 - 74 


B /71733 


" Specialist" ( English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm .) . 


112 .00 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


74802 


P . E . 


19 -4 - 74 

U 
74803 


B /71761 


47 - 24 ( 1) Urmil Pictures 


Vibhuti Narayan Singh 


" Mujhe Nam Se 
Pukaro " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .). 


B /71445 


19 - 4 - 74 

U 
74804 

– With triangle mark , 
19- 4 - 74 


so contractors man and is about to be 


20 -73 m , 


20- 73 m. 


" Hamrahi" (Hindi) 3853 - 72 (15) Sagar Art Corpora - Subhash Sagar. 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

tion , Natraj Studio , 
194 Kurla Rond , 

Bombay -69. 
Endorsement. 

OriginalLength . -- 3922 . 55 m . 
Cut Reel 
No, No. 
1. IX : Reduce the sequence on preparation for a human sacrifice where the heroine 

is shown to be captive of the bridge contractors man and is about to be 
sacrificed 

( Length retained : 35 . 31 m .) 
2 . X : Reduce to the minimum the scene of heroine being tortured by Sujeet with 

a knife . 

(Length retained : 0 .61 m .) 
3. XI : Roduce the scene in which Ramesh presses his log on theneck of a goonda 

and blood cozing from his mouth and tho subscquent scene when he is 
repeatedly drowned in the bath -tub 

(Length retained : 5 . 18 m .) 
4 . XII : During the dance of three girls in smuglers den , delete the shot of 

indecorous action of the dancing girls 
5 . XV : Reduce the light between Ramesh and Sujoct on top of a building under 
construction . . . . . 

. . . . . . 
Length of deletions. - 68 . 83 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletionswill be - 3853 .72 m , in 15 reels. 


5 -56 m . 


5 .71 m . 


2 . 28 m . 


34 . 55 m . 


B /71635 


74805 

- - With triangle mark . 
19- 4 - 74 


" Trailer of Goon )" 81 .99 (1 ) Sangam Films. A . V. Mohan 
( Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm .). 
Endorsement 

Original Length . - 88 - 39 m . 
1. Reduce the sequoacc of a couple making love in bed, by deleting the sccond half of 

the scene where he caresses her back and tries to open the zip 

(Length retained : 2 . 89 m .) 
2 . Reduce the impact of the ſight hy deleting hard hitson the stomach , keeping one 
or two blows 

. . 
(Length remained . 3 .20 m 

. . . . . . 
Length of deletions. — 6 -40 in . 
Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be.- - 81 .99 m . 


4 .27 m . 


2 - 13 m . 


B /71752 


U 
74806 


" Sangam " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm .). 


P . E . 


274 -62 ( 1) Ratna Gupta , Propric- Ratna Gupta Bombay 

tores , Darpan 26- - N , 59 . 
Block Eva Corpo 
rative Society Juhu , 
Bombily -59 , 


20 -4 - 74 


B / 71753 


U 
74807 


" Naya Savera " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


257 .86 ( 1) 


P . E . 


S . R . Saaz, Proprietor S , R , Saaz. Bombay- 50 
Amma,- A Movie 
Makers Association , 
4 / 5 Kazi Blocks, 
Bombay - 50 . 


20 - 4 - 74 


B / 71844 


74808 


" Trailer of Dhuen Ki 
Lakoer (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .). 


91 . 44 (1) Roopanjali , Pvt . Ltd ., Roopanjali Pvt. Ltd ., 

43- Bhupan Chember, 43- Bhupen Chember , 
Dalal Street, Bombay - 1. Dalal Street, Bombay 


20 - 4 - 74 


U 


B / 71877 


74809 


" Phir Kab Milo gi” 
( Hindi ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm . ). 


3878 . 90 ( 15) Shri Hari Mehra , 91- Shri Hari Mehra , 91 

Marino Drive , Bom - Marine Drive , Bom 
bay - 2 . 

bay - 2 . 


20 - 4 -74 


PART III. SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2213 


īm 


B /71883 


74810 


" Men Hoon Chatur 
Siyur " (Hindi) 
( 16 mm .). 


P . L . 


296 .00( 1 ) Space Applications Space Applications 

Centre , Ahmedabad - Centre Sahejanbad 
380015 

College Bldg. Ahmeda - 
bad - 380015 . 


20 -4 -74 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 
B /71487 

Film : " Dost" (Hindi) (35 mm .) (Col.). 
U -Ccrt. No. 74746 of 8 -4- 1974 . 
Reel No. 11 : Deleted various shots 

23 .47 m . 
Reel No. V : Deleted various shots 

51 . 52 m . 
Reel No. XV : Deleted various shots 

28 . 35 m 
Reel No . XVI : Deleted various shots . . 

29 - 26 m . 
Length of deletions : 132 .60 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be. — 4695. 54 m in 17 reels , 

This certificate was endorsed on 16th April, 1974 . 
B /71804 
lilnr: “ Violence What Price ? Who pays ? (No. 3) 
U -Cert. No . 74758 of 9 -4 - 1974 , 

Corrections: The length of the film on the face of certificate may be read as 28 .00 metres instead of 60 . 00 uroties . 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th April, 1974 . 
B /71883 - 94 
Film : " Path of Progress " (English ) 
U -Cert. No . 73203 of 24 - 8 - 1973, 

This cortificate is also valid for following versions of the film under thọ titles indicated against each of them ), 
Hindi: Pragati ka path , Oriya , Pragati ka path , Assamese : Pragti ka path , Urdu : Pragti ka path , Bengali : Pragti 
ka path . Telugu : Path of Progress, Tamil : Path of Progress , Punjabi: Pragtika path , Malayalam : Path of Progress , 
Gujarathi: Pragti ka path , Kannada : Path of Progress. The length of the film remajns unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 17th April , 1974, 
B /71654 
Film : " Saga of Shipping " ( English ) ( Colour ) 
U -Cert. No. 74686 of 29 - 3- 1974 , 

Reel No. [ Deleted various shots : 23 .00 Reel No. 11 - Deleted various shots : 43 .00 
Length of deletions : 66 00 m . 
Actual length of the film afier the aforesaid deletions will be: 457 . 00 m . 

This certificate was cndorsed on 18th April, 1974 , 
B /71572 
Hilm : “ Applique Or Orissa " (English ) 
U -Cert. No, 74633 of 22 - 3- 1974 . 

Deleted various shots : 55 . 09m . 
Actual length of the film afier the aforesaid deletions will be; 236 . 91m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 
B / 71779 - 80 
Film : “ Thirst " (English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No . 74630 of 22 - 3 - 1974, 

This certificato is also valid for Tamil and Telugu versions of the films in colour . 
The length of the film remains jinchanged , 

This certificato was endorsed on 18th April , 1974 . 
B /71778 
Hilm : " Pyar" ( Hindi) (Colour ) 
U - Cert. No. 74629 d of 22 - 3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati version of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificate was cndorsed on 18th April , 1974 . 


B /71860 

Film : " Peera Hare, Achha Kare " (Hindi). 
U -Cert. No. 74625 of 22 - 3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Gujarati and Marathi versions of the film . 

unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 , 


The length of the film 


remains 


2214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC, 4 
- - ..- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- -- - - - 

-- - - - - - - - = 


- - 


- 


B / 71800 
Film : " Stay With You " (English ) 
U - Certificate No . 72405 of 27-4 -1973. 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of tho film in clolour, The length of the film reamains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 18th April, 1974 . 


B /71543 -47 
Film : " Dato The Sun " ( English ) 
U - Cert . No. 74497 of 18 -3 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in clolour . 
This certificate was endorsed on 19th April , 1974 , 


The length of the film remains unchanged . 


CALCUTTA 


C - 7998 


Asali (Bengali ) 35mm 

India . 


4 , 091 . 00 ( 14 ) 


Gectali Pictures 80 / 1 , Geetali Datta , 

M , Kankulia Road , 
Cal- 19 . 


U 
73408 


16 - 4 -74 


C - 7990 


Bisarjan (Bengali ) 35 
mm - India 


U 
73409 


13409 


3,07, 52 (11) Sabila Chitram 23, Sabita Bose 

Bajshabghata Lanc, 

Calcutta -47. 
30 - 48 (1) Admakers 16 , Shakes - Admakers 

Pear Sarani, Cal- 16 . 


C -8001-02 


Femila Snow (Bengali) 
& Hindi) (Colour) 
35mm -India . 


16 - 4 -74 

U 
73410 


16 -4 - 74 


C - 8003 


Sayees Keta (Nepali) 

35mm - India . 


343 -50(1) Devkota Films, Dar- Pratap Subha, 

jeeling 


73411 


16 - 4 - 74 


C - 8005 


73412 


Lamja Parshurain 
(Manipuri) 35mm 
India . 


19 - 4 - 74 


3,903 - 88 (14 ) N . S . Films (Manipur ) G , Nayran Sharma. 

Paona Bazar, Im 
phal, Manipur. 

MADRAS 
3944 - 11 (15) Hyderabad Movies , Hyderabad Movies, 
Madras . 

Madras. 


M - 8512 


" Nedakoni Aadahi" 


" Needaloni Aadahi 
( Telugu ) (Colour) 
35min . India . 


3944 II(15) Hyderabash 


Movies, Hyderabad 


Movies, 


A 
3302 


15 - 4 - 74 
With Cuts. 


Endorsement on cert. No. 3302- A dated 15th April , 1974 - issued to the film “ Necduloni aadadhi ( Telugu ). 
Length applied . 3996 :47 Metres . 
Cuts . 

Mts . 
1. Reel 4 Delete the shot of Madhu s head resting on the breast portion of 
Radha in the song picturisation 

4 . 56 
2 . Reel 6 Delete the close -shot of Radha removing her brassier when she 
is undressing and Pasupati is looking at her , 

1 .82 
3 . Reel 6 Reduce tho sequencc of Pasupati raping Radha to the bare mini 

mum , especially deleting the shots of interwined legs on bed . 
(Retaincd 6 . 39) . . . . . . . . . 

10 . 66 
4 . Reel 8 Delete ( a ) the two prominent shots of the gamp Ragini wearing 
only brassier with bottle in between her legs, facing camera 

1 . 82 
(b ) the low - angle shot of Ragini with prominent brussicr vicw . 
sitting on the teapoy in the cross -logged posture . 

0 :91 
5 . Reel 13 Reduce by 70 % the rich man Ranganatnam molesting Radha 

both on bed as well as on floor, especially deleting his action of 
tearing of her blouse , pulling off her sari.(Retained 
14 -01) . 
6 . Reel 15 From the surgical operation scene on Madhu 
delete entirely the close-range shot of the wound being closed by 
stitching. (No objection to keeping a flash view of cutting tho 
thread at the end . Replaced approved shot 5 - 78 ). 

5 . 78 


26 


Total 


: 


52 :36 


Actual length of the film will be 39 -44 .11 Metres in 15 Reels . 


PART III - SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - - -- - - -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 


2215 
- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


3 


M -8539 


Chandana ( Telugu ) 

35mm . B & W . India , 


4226 -65(16 ) Sridhar 

Madras. 


Combines , Sridhar 

Madras . 


Combines, 67520 


16 - 4 .74 


M /8538 


3963 - 35 ( 17 ) 


Aramana Rahasyam 

(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm 
( B . & W .) (India ) . 


Pionoor Enjortainers , Pioneer Entorturers , 
Madras, 

Madras . 


67521 With cuts , 


17 - 4 - 74 


Endorsementon Cortificato No . 67521/ dated 17 -4 - 1974 issuocl to film ‘Aramana Rahasyam (Malayalanı) ( 35 min ) ( B . & W .) 
Longth applied . — 3973 : 35 Metres , 


Curs : 

Reel 4 - Raluco Pappotta whipping Venu . (Retained 10 Metres) . 


Motras 
10 . 00 


TOTAL : 


10 . 00 


M /8532 


Actual length of the film will be . — 3963 - 35 Metres in 17 Reels . 
"Sothu Bandhanam 4235 -80 (15) Surya Pictures ,Madras Shri R . 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 min ) 

Madras. 
(B . & W ) (India ) 


Somancih , 


67522 


17 - 4 -74 


M / 8924 


5138 - 30 (20 ) 


Jayashri Combincs, 

Madrits . 


U 
67523 


" Alluri Sitaramaraju " 

( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 
( Cinomascope) 
(35 mm ) ( India ). 


Shri G , Hanuma that 

Rao , Madras . 


18 -474 


M /8537 


106 .68 (1 ) 


Pioneer Entertainors , Pioneer Entertail crs, 
Madras . 

Mudrils 


U 
67524 


Trailer of Aramana 

Rahasyam (Malay 
lam ) ( 35 mm ) ( B & 
W .) (India ) 


18 -4 -74 


M /8525 


Upagane (Kannadil) 

( Col.) (35 mm ) (India 


4273 .29 (16 ) Chithra Jyothi, Mysore Chitra Jyothi, Mysoro 


U 
67525 


18 -4 - 74 


U 


M /8531 


Uthania Ilal ( Tolugu ) 3942 . 27 ( 16 ) Nageswira Produc- Nagoswara Productiong 67526 With cuts . 
(35 mm ) (B . & W .) 

tions , Madras . 

Madras. 
(India ). 

18 -4 - 74 
Endorsement on cert. No. 67524- U dt. 18 -4 -74 issued to film Uthama llau ( Tolugu , (35 mm ) (B . & W .) 
Length applied. — 3952 - 93 Moties . 


Metres 


Cut : 
Reol 5 — Delate Sangli s sentence “ Yce Prapanchamlo chinna pilla , podda pilla, 

pedda manushi, Dabhugulavadu , Kavi, Bajkooya vetta ovoryna salo kakahu 
alayalu paddaru " 

Total 


10 . 66 


10 -66 


Actual length of the film will be .- 3942 -27 Metres in 16 Recls. 


M /8534 


3532 - 32 ( 13) 


U 
67527 


Nollu (Malayalam ) 

(Colour ) ( 35 mm ) 
(India ) 


Jamu Films Incroa - Jamu Filnis Intorna 
tional, Madras, 

tional, Mudras. 


18 - 4 -74 


U 


M -8335 


109 . 72 (1) Madras Refinories Ltd , Teaching Filns Inc., 
Madras, 

Texas , USA , 


67528 


" Ground Spill Petru 

loum Fires (English ) 
(Colour) 16mm , USA 


P . E . 


19 -4 - 74 


M - 8339 ] 


" Process Unit Tower 

Flanges and Pump 


109 . 72 ( 1) 


Madras Refinerics Ltd . 

Madras . 


Teaching Films Inc . 
Taxas , USA , 


U 
67529 


P . E . 


19 - 4 -74 


Packing Firos ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) 16mm . 
USA . 


2216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ,DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III . SEC. 4 


S - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - -- - 


- - - 


-- - - - 


- - - -- - - 


- -- 


-- 


- 


- 


= = 


- - -- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


T 


2 


5 


M -8546 


94 .48 ( 1) 


Trailer of Sathi Anu - 

suya (Hindi) ( Colour) 
35ım . Indiet , 


Venkatapathy Pictures 

Madras 


Shri S , V . Rajagopal, 
Madras, 


67530 


20 -4 -74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM 

CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 27TH APRIL , 1974 


BOMBAY 


B /71742 


" You Don t Back 

Down " (English ) 
(16mm .) (Canada ) 


316 .00(1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada, 
Chanakyapuri Now Govt. of Candda . 

Delhi-21. 
289 . 00 ( 1) Do 

Do 


74811 P.E . 
22 -4 -74 


B /71737 


“ 20 Million Powplo " 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(16mm ) (Canada ) 


U 
74812 P . E . 
22 - 4 - 74 


U 
74813 


B / 71897 


Bhattacharya . 


“ Wide World of Cali 

co " ( English ) (Co 
lour) (35mm ) 


30 -48( 1 ) Ruchi Chitra , Bhakar S . K . 

Bhavan , 222/ 1 , Sir 
Bhalchandra Rd. , 
Bombay- 19 . 


22-4 -74 


U 


B /71809 


74814 


" Roplas Fibreglass 

Bodios ( English ) 
(Colour ) (35min .) 


136 -66 (1) Film Media , 47 -Laxmi Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur. 

Insurance Building Film Mediu . 
Sir P . M . Rd , 
Bombay- 1. 


22 -4 -75 


B /71723 


411 - 48 ( 2 ) 


" Towards A Now Lifo " 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm ) 


P , T , Jani, Shrikrishana P . T . Jani, Shrikrishna 

Boarding House , Boarding House , 
Room No . 12 , Room No . 12 , - - 
Bombay-4 . 

Bombay-4 . 


74815 

- Not P . E . 
22- 4 - 74 . 


B /71724 


198 . 12 (1) 


Do 


DO 


" Samay Ki Pukar" 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) 


74816 


P . E . 


22- 4 - 74 


B /71770 


395 .02 (2 ) 


M /s. Chitra Bharati 


74817 


P . E . 


" National Chemical 

Laboratory in the 
Sorvice of Nation , 
(Eng.) (Col.) ( 35mm ) 


M . K . Navandar, Parl- 

nor, Chitra Bherati, 
759 / 94 Prabhat Rd, 
Poona - 4 . 


22 -4 -74 


B /71903 


" Kaal Ane Aaj" (Guj.) 

( 35 mm ) 


U 
115 .00 ( 1) Filmi Saudagars 11 - Filmi Saudagars, 11, 74818 

Kshitij Adarsh So - Kshitij Adarsh So - - - 
ciety, Bombay-64 ciety, Bombay -64 , 23- 4 - 74 


B /71904 


168 - 2 ( 1) 


P . E . 


" Apna Sukh Apne 

Hath " (Hindi) (Col. 
( 35 mm ) 


ARPI Movies (P ) Ltd ., ARPIMovies (P ) Ltd .. 74819 

519 - Loha Bhavan , 519 , Loha Bhuvan , - 
P , D mello Road , Bombay- 9 , 

23- 4 - 74 
Bombay - 9 , 


U 


B /71913 


30 -48 (1) 


" Loving Mohter (English ) 

(Coluur ) (35 mm ) 


F . B . Productions . 


F . B . Productions 


74820 


23 -4 -74 


B /71921 


" Trailer of 
Bahan " 
(35mm .) 


" Choti 
(Hindi) 


U 
74821 


91 - 50 (1 ) Prilsad Productions Prasad Productions 

( P .) Ltd . 810 -Bom (P .) Ltd . 810 - Bom 
bay Market, Torileo , buy Markot, Tardoo , - 
Bombay - 34 . 

Bombay - 34 . 


23 - 4 -74 


B /71919 


U 
74822 


Do 


99 . 12 ( 1) 


Do 


" Trailer of Hamarahi" 

(Hindi) (35mm .) 


23 -4 -74 


B /71927 


91 . 50 (1 ) 


Do 


Do 


" Trailer of Sasural” 
(Hindi) (35mm ) 


U 


74823 ) 


23 - 4 - 74 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - -- - -- - - 

A - - - - - 


2217 
= = 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


= 
- - 


B /71920 


B /71843 


" Trailor of Acti Bete " 97 . 60 ( 1 ) Prasad Productions Prasad Productions 
(Hindi) (35mm .) 

( P .) Ltd ., S10 -Bombay (P .) Ltd , 810 Boinbay 74824 
Market, Tiurdeo , 

Market , Tardeo , - - 
Bombay - 34 , Bombay - 34 . 

23 - 4 - 74 
" Trailer of Pugli " 84 . 59 ( 1) S , Kamrud lin . Asha Art International. U 
(Hindi) ( Col.) ( 35mm , ) 

74825 With traingle mark 

24- 4 -74 
Endorseinent : 
Original Length : 89 .92 m . 

Reduce drastically tho impact of violoncc .- - 5 : 33 m . (Length retained : 17 .07 m .) 

Actual length of the film after the aforesail delirions will be : 84 - 59 m . 
" Indian News Review 301 : 00 ( 1 ) Iilms Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. U 
No . 1332 " ( Eastorn 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 , Peddar 74826 
Edition ) ( 35min .) Roal, Bunibay - 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 , 

- (Valid for English 
24 -4 -74 Hindi, Bengali 

Assanioso & Oriya 
versions ). 


B /71938 


1 ) 


B /71937 


238 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do 


DO 


" Indian Nows Rovice 

No . 1332 " ( 35mm .) 
( 1 ? vorsions) 


74827 

- (Valıd for Englishi, 
24 -4 -74 I lindi, Marath , 

Gujarati, Tamil 
Telugu , Kannada 
Maluyalam ,Punjabi 
Kashmiri, Urdu & 
Sindhi versions). 


U 


B /71949 


297 . 00 (1 ) 


" Maharashtra Nowy 
No. 263." (Murathi & 
Hindi) ( 35mm .) 


The Direc . or General 
of Infor nation & 

Public Relation , 
Govt. of Maharashtra , 


Tho Director General 74828 
Of Information & - - - 
Public Relation . 

24 - 4 - 74 


B / 71875 


" John " (English ) 
( 16mm .) (U . K .) 


P . F 


487-10 


cu orelish) 


487 .00 (1) National Education 

& Information Films 
Ltd ., Nat onalHouse , 
Apollo Bunder , 
Bombay- 1. 1 


Tavistock Child 74829 

Development Research — 
Unit . 

25- 4 - 74 


U 


B /71876 


83 .82 (1 ) 


“ Jane" (Scenes ) (En 
glish ) ( 16mm .) 


Do . 


Do. 


74830 


P. E . 


25-4 - 75 


25-4-75 


B /71874 


443 . 18 (1) 


Do. 


74831 


P . E . 


" A Two Year Old 
Goes to Hospital" 
(English ) ( 16mm .) 
( U . K .) 


25- 4 - 74 


B /71862 


Families" 
(16mm .) 


243 . 84 ( 1 ) 


DO 


Davidson Films. 


74832 


" Chemical 

(English ) 
( U . S . A ) 


P . E . 


25 - 4 -74 


U 


B /71863 


243 .84 (1) 


Do. 


Do , 


" Guses And How 
They Combine " (En 
glish ) ( 16mm .) (USA ) 


74833 
25 -4 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71864 


231 .65( 1 ) 


Do . 


" Gas Prossruo And 
Molocults Collisions" 
(English ) (16nim .) 
( USA ) 


Educutional 
Incorporated 


Services 


74834 P.C . 
25 -4 -74 


B /71865 


182 - 88 ( 1 ) 


yases P.E. 


Do. 


Davidson Films , 


" Chemical Bonding " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


74835 P . E . 


25 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71868 


146-30(1) 


146 . 30 ( 1 ) 


Do , 


Do . 


74836 


P . E . 


" Thc Hydrogen Atom 
As Viewed By Quan 
tum Mechanics " 
(English ) (16mm .) 
(USA ) 


25 - 4 -74 


2213 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III - - SEC . 4 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - - = = = - = = - - 

= - - - = 


- 


2 


3 


B /71899 


74837 


P . F , 


" Electric Inter AC 
tions In Chomistry " 
(English ) (16mm .) 
(USA .) 


25 - 4 - 74 


243 -84( 1 ) National Exlucation Wextor Films. 

& Infomation Films 
Ltd ,, National House , 
Apollo Burder , 

Bombay - 1. 
30 .48(1) F . B . Productions, F. B . Productions, 

Film Centre, 68 - Film Contre , 68 
Tardeo Rond , Tardeo Road , 
Bombay - 34 . 

Bombay- 34 . 


B /71928 


U 
74838 


" Picturo of Ilealth " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


25-4 - 74 


B /71923 


U 
74839 


" Trailer of Dost " 
(Hindi) (Col.) (35mm ) 


89.00 (1) Suchitra . 


Mr. Premnath Mafi 
chanda Alias MS - 
Suchitra . 


25 - 4 -74 


U 


B /71932 


85 .34 (1) Voonu Films. 


Jagdish Sharma. 


74840 With triangle mark , 


" Trailer of Klioon Ki 
Kimat " (Hindi) (CO 
loui) ( 35mm .) 


26 -4 -74 


Endorsement: 

Original Length : 86 .84 m 
1. Delete the close shot of two men hitting cach othor on thoir faces. — .0 .83 m 
2 . Recluce the fight by celoting hard hits on the stomach .- -0 -67 m . 

(Deleted Completely ). 
Length of deletions : 1 .50 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will he : 85 . 34 m . 


B /71-807 


74841 


" Trailer of Phir Kub 
Milogi" (Hindi) ( Col 
our ) (35mm .) 


70 - 15 (1 ) Shri Huri 

Malino 
Bumbay- 2 . 


Mehre, Shri Hasi 
Drive, Marine 

Bombay - 2 . 


Mchro , 
Drive , - 


26 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71669 


74842 


“ Portrait of A Hum 
anist " (English ) 
(35mm .) 


549 . 00 ( 2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Pedder - 
Road, Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


26 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71970 


479 .00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74843 


26 - 4 - 74 


“Voico of the Pooplo" 
(No Commentary , 
Suach dicloguos in 
ditl erent languages ) 
( 35mm .) 
" Trailor of Allngan " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) 


B /71951 


84 . 65( 1) Mr. P . P . Javori, Mr. P . P . Javori, C /o . 

C / o . Jasmine Films. Jasmine Filmiş . - 
Bombay - 3. 

Bombay -3 . 


U 

74844 With triangle mark , 
27-4 -74 


Endorsement: 
Original Length : 88 -39 m . 

1. Delete the words " Apni godmen utha kar bistur par le jaoonga " as said by the man to the girl.- - 2 . 45 m . 
2 . Delete the underlined word from tho sentence " Haath kya . ab to jism milte rehenge " is said by the boy to the 

giil. — 0 .07 m . 
3 . Delete the shot of the boy unzipping the drove of tho girl.-- 1 .22 m . 

Length of cleletions : 3 .74 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid leletions will be: 84 .65 m . 


B /71674 


74845 With triangle mark . 


" Khoon Ki Kimat" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm ) 


3630 -68(15) Voena Films, A - 20 , Jagdish Sharma , Vcena 

North Bombay Hous - Films, Bombuy- 54 . 
ing Society, Juhu 
Santacruz , Bonbuy -54 . 


27 - 4 -74 


Endorsement: 
Original Length : 3739 -01 m . 

Cur Reel 
No. No . 
1. Il ; Dilete the underlined words from the dialogue of the driver addressed to Deepak : 

(1) " Is main tera danda phad leta hoon " - - 3 : 33 m . 
(II) " Oh, bavji , pchlo angootha is tasah dikhake meri gaddimein baitthha ode bad ungli kar di 

meri jcb niein aur battwa nikal liya , " -- 2 .09 m . 
IV : From the picturisation of the song boginning with the words, " lari oh champu Chameli . . . . " 

delete the shot in which a girl dressed as a mulle, kisses another girl on the cheek , - 0 . 45 m . 
V : Reduce tho gun battle between Deepak and the hirelings of the Tahkur.--- 5 -18 m . 

( Length retained : 13 . 10 m .) 
4 . V : Delete the linloglio of Hakim addressed to Chanda : “ Kisne masri, kab maari, kahan maari" 
4 - 05 m . 

- - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


PART III - SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 189-7 ) 


2219 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


6 


7 


Cut Reel 
No No 
VIII : Delete the following lines from the song beginning with the words " Idhar aa , let ja .. . . 

(i) Aaj theck karoonga toro mijaj ko, chunari ular ke " (Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with 

approved words) 
(ii ) Boy : " Paanv dhcole chhod de . . . .. . 

Girl : " Kya ? " 
Boy : "Mukhdo ko modo de .. " 
Girl : “ Hat muve" . . . . 
Boy : Puny dheele chhodde . mukhde ko modo do" . . . . Ankhiyon ko band kar donon oath 

chhid do, idhar palat ja , palal- -iyse lipat ja , lipat, jahin waqt haj aur seemat ja . . . , " 

(Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approvod words ) 
6 . IX : Reduce the scene of Deepak boating Thakur s man by deleting hard hitting shots . — 2 - 70 m . 

(Length retained : 1 . 83 m .) 
7. XI : Delete reference by Thakur claiming himself a crooked Rajput. - -1 29 n . 
8 . XIL : Delete reforenco to Billo in the dialogue of Hargun while describing her in the context of Mujra : 

" Gaanv ki kori karari kunwari . . . . . . . . " etc . - 1 . 74 m . 
9 . XIV : From thesc rcels reduce the fights , shootings , killings and torture , deleting all gruesome shots 

(including tho shots in which Doopak is shown being dragged by the buggy while he holds on to it). 
- 87 - 50 :m . 
(Length retained in Reel 14 : 46 .02 m .) 
(Length rotajned lo Reel 15 ; 7 .32 m .) 
Length of deletions : 108 - 33 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3630 .68 m . in 13 Reels. 


B /71927 


74846 


“ Tandurusti Ki Taal" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


15 . 24 ( 1) Sohrab Boga, M s Sohrab Boga , M /S 

Nishan Motion Pic - Nishan Motion Pic 
tures , Vasant Vihar, turcs, Vasant Vihar , 
8 -Carmichael Road , 8-Carmichael Road , 
Bombay-26 . 

Bombay - 26 . 


27 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71800 


74847 


" No Othor Choice” 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35mm ) 


29 .87 (1) M /s Television Radio 

& Motion Pictures, 
6 - A Rashmi Cur. 
inichael Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


M /s Television Radio 
& Motion Pictures , 
6 -A Rashmi Carn 
nichach Road , 
Bombay -26 . 


27. 4 74 


L 


. 


B /71636 


(nformation 


U 
74848 Not P . E . 


“ A conversation with 
Vico President Gerald 
R . Ford ” ( English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
(USA .) 


438 -61(1) Unitod States Infor- U . S . 

mation Sorvico , 4 - Agency . 
New Marino Lines , 
Bombay -20 , 


27 -4 - 74 


B / 71815 


YA PE. 


273 41(1 ) 


Do. 


U 
74849 P . E . 


" Vision USA 20 " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


Thokas Craven , 


27 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71915 


P . E . 


" O . K . Camera " ( En 
glish ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) (Canada ) 


312 .00 (1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 74850 

mision , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of -. 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada . 

27- 4 -74 
Delhi-21 , 


U 


Do. 


B / 71971 " People of the Seal : 586 .00 (2 ) 

Do. 

74851 P . E . 
Eskimo Summer " 
( Eng .) (Col.) 

27- 4 - 74 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 
Endorsement under Rule 34 : 

B /71907- 12 
Film : “ Flowers All Day " (English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 74663 of 25 -3 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam , Kannada, Hindi and Assamese versions of tho 

film in colour. 
The length of tho film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 23rd April, 1974 . 
B /71947 
Film : " Towards A Now Lifo " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 74815 of 22 -4 -1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for English version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificato was endorsed on 24th April , 1974 . 
11 - 369 ĢI/75 


2224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART UI- SEC, 4 


5 


6 


B / 71939 - 42 
Film : " The Tell Tale Bito " (English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No . 74361 of 14 - 2 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Oriya , Marathi, Bengali and Hindi yersions of the filin in colour, The length of 

the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th April, 1974 . 
B /71670 -71896 
Film : " Kal Aai Aur Kal" (Gujarati) 
U - Cort, No 74688 of 29 - 3 - 1974 , 

Added various shots : 7 .62 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 243 .84 m . 
This certificate is also valid for Hindi varsion of the Alm . The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th April , 1974 , 
B / 73573 
Film : " Bazar Band Karo " (Hindi) 
U -Cert, No. 74672 of 25 -3 - 1974 . 

Reel 14 : Deleted shot 3 . 96 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3664 - 30 m . in 13 Reels. 
This certificate was endorsed on 26th April, 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 


C /8006 


U 
73413 


Black Money (Assa - 
meso) (35mm .) ( India ) 


3, 560 - 37 (14 ) Nataraj Kalakendra , Achyut Lahakar, 

P . O . Pathasala , 
Kamrup , Assam . 


23 -4 - 74 


C / 8009 


594 . 56 (2) 


U 
73414 


E Muthi Chaular 
Kahini (Assamese ) 
(35mm .) ( India ) 


Bhupen H azarika , Bhupen Hazarika . 
77B , Golf Club Road , 
Cal.- 33. 


23-4- 74 


23 - 4 -74 


C /8010 


Fuleshwari (Bongali) 
(35mm .) (India ). 


3 , 533 . 54 (13) 


Radharani Pictures, 169 Kartick Burman , 
C , Park Street, Cal.-17. 


73415 


23 - 4 - 74 


C /8012 


U 
73416 


Paschim Banga Sar- 
karor Sambad Chitra 
No. 56 (Bengali) 
(35mm . ) (India ) , 


352 . 35 (1) Bibhuti Roy , 5/ 1F , Koya - Dept. of Information 
tala Road Cal.-29 . & Pub . Relations, - 

Govt. of Wost Bengal, 
Calcutta . 


24 - 4 - 74 


U 


C /8013 


187 .45 (1 ) 


Do . 


73417 


Bishesh Sangbad 
Chitra (Bengali) 
( 35mm .) (India ). 


Directorate of Public 

Relations & Tourism , - 
Govt. of Tripura, 
Agratala . 


24 - 4 - 74 


C /8011 


300 . 00 ( 1) 


Orissar Mukhya Gha - 
tanabali No. 105 
(Oriya ) (35mm .) 
(India .) 


Films Officer , Homo Homo (Public Rola 73418 
( P . R . ) Dept., Govt. thons) Dept., Govt. – 
of Orissa of Orissa . 

27 - 4 - 74 


C /8008 


70 .00 (1) 


P . E . 


No Nocd To Hide 
(English ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm . (USA ) 


Rev . D . Mark Buntain . Gospel Films Inc . USA . 
Assembly God 
Church , 18 , Royd Street , 
Cal.- 16 . 


73419 
27-4- 74 


MADRAS 


M / 8515 


Baluvoninagagi" (Kan . 
nada ) (35mm ) (B & 
w ). (India .) 


67531 


3962 .40 ( 16 ) Sunshine Pictures, Shri Josoph 
Sagar, Karnataka , Zouza, 

Karnataka . 


V . D . 
Sagar , 


22 - 4 -74 


M / 8374 & 
8375 


457 . 2002 ) Deepthi 

Madras . 


Films, Dcopthi 

Madras . 


Films, 


Story of Toak ? 
(Malayalam & Eng. 
llah ) (35mm .) ( Colour) 
(India .) 


67532 P . E . 


22 -4 - 74 


PART 10 — SÆg . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2221 


1 


2 


M /8543 


Movies, C . N . V . 

Madras . 


Movies , 


"Ghumasthayin Maghal , 4111 47 (16 ) C , N . V . 
(Tamil) ( 35mm .) (B & 

Madras , 
W .) (India ) 


67533 


23 - 4 - 74 

U 
67534 


M / 8945 


"Mugguru Ammayilu 
( Telugu ) (35mm ) 
( B & W .) (India .) 


4451 .61(16 ) Nava Bharat Art 

Films, Madras. 


Nava Bharat Films, 
Mądras . 


With cuts 


24 -4 - 74 


Endoisement on Cert . No. 67534 - U , dt. 24th April 1974 issued to film "Mugguru Ammayilu ( Telugu ) 35mm 

B & W . 
Length applied : 4458 - 30 M , 
Cuts - - 

Metie s. 
1. Reel 12 – Delete the words " Tulusi Theertham from the dialogue of a custo 

mer . . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 13 – Delete the words " Mundu Evaru " from the dialogue of Raja 
(Replaced approved word : 0 .60 ) . . . . . . 

0 60 
3. Reel 15Delete the reference to Indirama from the dialogue of Uncle of 
Sobha . . . . . . . . . . 

1 . 21 
Total. 

7 . 29 


5 48 


Replacement approved : 0 .60 m . 
Actual length will be ; 4451 -61 m . in 16 Reels. 


U 


M /8548 


Doctoramma (Tamil) 
(35mm .) (B & W ) (India 


3658 . 20 ( 14 ) Meenakshi Art Meenakshi Art Prodns, 

Productions , Madras Madras . 


67535 


With cuts 


25 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement on Cert. No . 67535 - 0 , dt. 25- 4 -74 isgued to the filin ‘Doctoramma ( Tamil) 35mm . B & W . 

Length applied : 3691 50 M . 
Curs- - 

Metre s 
1. Reel 3 — Delete words of the woman in charge of brothel : " Pendattina 
Arai Chappudu Idhu Muzhu Charpadu " 

4 . 25 
2 . Reel 12 & 14 . - Delete details of surgicaloperation - shown in close-shots . 29 .25 

Total. 33 - 50 
Actual length of the film will be: 3658 .20 m . m . in 14 Reels, 


M /8540 , 49 
& 51 


30 . 48 (1) Film Media , Bombay. Shri Jyoti G . Thakur, 

Bombay . 


67536 


Aatrum Marundhu 
( Tamil Telugu , 
Kannada & Malaya 
lam ) (35mm .) ( B & W ) 
(India .) 


26 - 4 - 74 


M /8541 


Alakal (Malayalam ) 3307 12(14) Mçıry Films Corpn., Merry Films Corpn ., 
(35mm .) (B & W .) 

Madras . 

Madras. 
(odia .) 


67537 With cuts . 
26 -4 -75 


Endorsement on Cert. No, 67537 - U , dt . 26 -4 - 74 issued to the film Alakal (Malayalam ) 35mm . B & W . 
Length applied : 3335 .42 M . 
Cuts. 

Metres. 
1. Reel 2 - Delete Bhasi running without dloti , . 

. , 0 -60 
2. Reel 6 - Reduce fight between Rajesh and Raghu to 1/3 its present length , 

oliminating all actions shown in close - shot . , , . 4 .26 
3 . Reel 9 Delete (a ) acton of Bhasi disrobing the cabaret dancer ; (b ) the 

belly movoinent (the first Action after stripping the outer - cloth ) ; 
( c ) her shedding the out- garmont; ( d ) the first shot in bikini (All 
shots of the dancer in silhouette, except those shown in close-shot 

ofabdomen and upper half of body may be retained ) . . 19 -20 
4 . Reel 12 - Delete molestation shown in flash -back (Raghu ontering Gestha s 

chamber , up to his switching off light may be retained ) . . () -60 
5 . Reel 14 – Reduce Rajosh giving punches on Raghu , to a flash 

3 .64 


Total . 


28 -30 


Actual length of the film will be : 3307 -12 m . in 14 Reels . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART 111 - Sec , 4 


1 


2 


M /8555 


Trailer of Poonthen 
aruyi (Malayalam ) 
(35mm .) ( B . & W .) 
India .) 


97 -53(1 ) M . S . Productions, 

Madras, 


M , S . Productions, 67538 
Madras. 

26 - 4 -74 


U 


67539 


M8552 & 
M /8553 


Cauvery Comes to 
Bangalore" (English 
& Kannada ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
( India .) 


426 . 72 ( 2 ) Karnataka Film Deve - Karnatakıt Film De- 

lopment Corpo , Ltd ., velopment Corpn , Ltd , 
Karnataka . 

Karanataka . 


26 - 4 - 74 


U 


M / 8556 


3957 .98 ( 14 ) M . S . Productions, M . S . 
Madras. 

Madrીવું. 


Productions, 


Poonthetaruvi (Ma- 
layalam ) (35mm .) 
(B & W .) (India .) 


67540 With cuts . 


27 - 4 - 74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67540 -U , dt, 27-4-74 issued to the film ‘Poonthenaruvi (Malayalam ) 35mm . B & W . 
Length applied : 3967 .27 M . 
Cuts. - - 

Metres , 
1 . Reel 2 - Delete the action of Mathai lifting dhotiand scratching. (Replaced : 
0 .30 ) . 

4 . 00 
. . . . 
2 . Reel 13 - Delete Shaji and Vimala , rolling over cach othor on the seashore 
Actual length of the film will be 3957 .98 M . in 14 Reels. 

2 . 00 
Total, 6 .00 


M /8561 


Sachit Smaranaikku 
(Malayalam ) ( 35mm .) 
( B & W .) (Indla .) 


358 . 14 (1) M . S. Productions, M . S. Productions, 
Madras. 

Madras. 


67541 


Madras. 


27- 4 - 74 


274- 74 


M /8547 


3928 .92 (16 ) 


K , P . A . C . Films, K . P . A . C . 
Trivandrum . 

Trivandrum . 


Filmg, 


Neclakkannukal (Ma - 
layalam ) (35min .) 
( B & W .) (India ) 


67542 With cuts . 


ivandrum . 


- 274-74 


Endorsement on Cert. No. 67542 -U , dt. 27-4 - 74 issued to the film Neelakkannukal (Malayalam ) 35 mm . B & W . 
Length applied ; 3956 - 30 M . 


Metres 


Cuts. 
1. Reel 7 - Delete words of estato owner s companions " Everything is over , 

you may try to get fre ones" . . 
2 . Reel 15 --- Delete suggestion of Kunhiraman being tortured in police station , 

and the police inspector taking orders from the estate owner . 

(Sound only removed for lorturing suggestion ) 
3. Reel 16 _ Reduce assault and molestation by estate owner on Malu . (Re 

tained ; 9 .74 ) . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 16 - Reduce Kunhiraman s action of strangling the estate owner to a 
flash , (Retained ,) . . 

. . . . . . 

Total 


Actual length will be : 3928 . 92 in 16 Reels . 


PART 111 - Sec . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2223 


_ 


( 1 ) 


_ 


( ) _ 


Tay 


( 5 ) 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 4TH MAY , 1974 


BOMBAY 


U 


B /71759 


74852 


" Scionco Report 149 

B " ( English ) 
(16 mm .) (USA ) 


152 . 70 (1 ) United States Informa - Robert Foster . 

tion Sorvico , 4 -Now 
Marino Lines , Bom 
bay - 20 . 


2017 


P. E . 


29 -4 - 74 


B /71975 


74853 


" Freodom To Lcurn " 

( English ) (16 mm .) 
(USA ) 


209 . 70 ( 1 ) National Educational & United Film Scrvices . 

Information Films 
Ltd . 


P . E . 


29 -4 - 74 


U 
74854 


B /71807 


" Us-Paar " . (Hindi) 3411 -62 (13) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


Bagu Chatterji, Cineye Basu Chatterji, Bom 
Films, 65 /1803 , Ad bay -25. 
arsha Nagar , Prabha 
devi, Bombay -25 . 


29 -4 - 74 


U 


B /71776 - 7 


Bon 


74855 


" The Oasis ” (English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 


30 .48 ( 1) Keith Allams, M /g . Koith Allams. 

KAPPA , 1 /A Monisha bay - 50 . 
St., Andrew s Road , 
Bandra , Bombay - 50 . 


29 - 4 - 74 


B / 71929 


74856 


" The Pearly Yeats " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada) 


113 . 00 ( 1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada , Govt. of 
Chankyapuri, New Canada , 
Delhi- 21 . 


29-4. 74 


Not P.E . 


U 


D / 71935 


153 . 00 ( 1) 


Do. 


74857 


" Don t Knock the Ox " 
( English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada) 


Not P . E . 


29 -4 - 74 


B / 71936 


U 
74858 


308 .00 ( 1) 


" Challenge 
Church " 
(Colour ) 
(Canada ) 


for the 
( English ) 
(16 mm .) 


Not P. E . 


29 - 4 - 74 


B / 71935 


119 . 00 (1 ) 


U 
74859 


" L Homme Novoau " 

( English) (Colour) 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ) 


Not P . E . 


29 - 4 - 74 


U 


B /71934 


585 . 00 (2 ) 


Do . 


74860 


P . E . 


" Peoplo of the Seal : 

Eskimo Winter " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada) 


29 - 4 - 74 


U 
74861 


B / 71265 


" Rumours " (Hindi) 

( Colour ) (35 mm .) 


260 - 60 ( 1) Prem Paul, Mooivta K - Ranjcet Singh , 120 

30 - B , Kalkali New Mahheji Park , Delhi-18 - 
Delhi. 


P .E . 


30 -4 - 74 


B /71461 


" Imtihan " (Hindi) 3991 39 (15) B . A . Chandiramani, B . A . Chandiramani, 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

Producer, Now Arts Bombay -1 . 
Pictures, 59 , Dr. V . B . 
Gandhi Marg., Fort 
Bombay - 1. 


U 
74862 

- With triangle mark , 
30 - 4 -1974 


2224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) PART 111 - SIC . 4 


- 


- 


( 2 ) 


( 3) 


(4) 


(5) 


6 


( 


6 


) 


1 . 20 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4046 .76 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 

Meters 
: In the introductory sequence establishing a college , delete close 

shot of picturo of a couple kissing on the back of a student and 
its repetitions : 
Delote tho shot of a student caressing bosom of a girl under a 
tree in tho colloge premises 

3 - 35 
Deloto tho underlined words from the following dialoguo of 
Rakesh adressed to a girl : 
" Majn ladakiyon ko upar haath nahi uthata hoon , jab uthata 
hun to kahan pahunch kar rukata hal ye baaki ladakiyon ko 
puchcho " . . . . . . . 

. 

0 .61 
4. TV Reduce the scene of Rakesh hitting the students and their thalis 

when tho students return after making complaint to the Professor 
about tho quality of food . Dolete the shots of food and dal being 
poured over a student who had complained . Reduce consider 
ably the free for-all betweon two gángs ofstudents, deleting hard 
hitting shots . 

13 .11 
(Longth retained : 63 .91 m .) 
5 . VI : Delete the scene of a gtudont threatening the invigilator with a 

kolfo . 
( There is , howevor, no objoction to the scene of knife already 
struck on to the tablo ) . . . . 

3 . 04 
XIV : Reduce the fight botwoen Prof. Sharma and gang of Rakegh . 3 . 65 

(Longth retained : 76 . 16 m .) 
Gonoral; Delete shots of student indiscipline wherever it is excessive and 
unrealistic 

10 . 75 
Voluntertly deleted 
Rool LX : 18 .05 m . 

VII : 100 m . 
XI : 0 .61 m . 

Length of cuts : 35 . 71 m . 
Length of voluntary delotions : 19 .66 m , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid 

deletions will be : 3991 -39 m . in 15 Rools . 
" Phool Na Jana " M /s Intergrity Interna 

Refugal of 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) tional, 66 -Ali Cham 

Certificate 
bers, Tamarind Lane , 
Fort , Bombay-400001 . 

1 - 5 - 74 
" Hot Winds of Free The USSR Congulato 

Rofugal of (Valid for Hindi, 
dom " (16 mm .) (Col.) General in Bombay, 

Certificate English , Marathi, 
Bhaveshwar Sagar , 

- 

Gujarati, Bengali , 
Ist Floor, 20 Jag 

1 - 5 - 74 Tamli, Talugu , Ma 
mohandas Marg , 

layalam versions .) 
Bombay- 400036 . 

U 
" Electro Chemical 256 .03 ( 1) National Education & Chemical Education 74863 
Cells " ( English ) 

Information Films Material Study . 
(16 mm .) Ltd . 

1 - 5 - 74 


6 . 


B / 71021 


B /70321- 34 


B /71872 


h 


PE . 


U 


B / 71762 


219 . 46 ( 1) 


Do. 


“ Shapes And Polaritios 
of Molecules " (Engli 
sh ) (16 mm .) (USĂ .) 


74864 

- 
1 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B /71866 


153 .62( 1) 


74865 


" Introduction To Ro - 
Action Knetics " 
(English ) (16 mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


1 - 5 - 74 


B /71867 


144 .78( 1) 


U 
74866 


" Molecular Motiong " 
(English ) (16 mm .) 
(USA ) 


P . E . 


1 - 5 - 74 

U 
74867 


B /71870 


" Ionization 
( English ) 
(USA ) 


Energy " 
(16 mm .) 


268 22( 1) 


P . E . 


1 - 5 - 74 

U 


B / 71871 


" Equillbrium " (Eng.) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ) 


280 .42(1) 


74868 


1- 5- 74 


P. E . 


PART III Sec. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2225 


(1) 


- 


(3 


(2 ) 


- 


(3 


(3 ) 


- (4) 


( 5 ) 


- 


U 


B /72007 


" Mahiti Chitra No. 
182 " (Gujarati) 
(35 mm .) 


146 -30 (1) Liaison Officer, Govt. Dir . of Information , 74869 
of Gujarat 

Govt. of Gujarat, - -- - - - 
Gandhinagar , 

1 -5 -74 


B /72027 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1333 " (Southern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm .) 


303 . 58 ( 1) Films Division Govt. Films Division Govt . 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - 
Road , Bombay-26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


B / 72028 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1333 " (35 mm ) 


193 . 85 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74870 ( Valid for English , 

Hindi, Tamil, To 
1 - 5 - 74 lugu , Kannada , & 

Malayalam versions) 
U 
74871 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
1 - 5 - 74 Gujarati, Assamese 

Oriya , Punjabi, Ben 
gali , Kashmiri, and 
Urdu Version ) 


B / 72029 


539 .00 (2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74872 


" Chhatrapati Shivaji" 

(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


- 1 -5 - 74 


U 


B / 71961 


" Tho Athletos " (Ben - 

gali) (Colour) ( 16 
mm .) (Australia ) 


74873 


270 . 00 ( 1) Australian High Com - 

mission . Now Delhi. 


Australian Comman 
Wealth Film Unlt. 


4 . 5 - 74 


U 


B /71962 


120 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


74874 


" Our Land Australia " 
(Bongau ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Australia ) 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74875 


B /71963 


304 .00 ( 1) 


" Sports Medicino " 
( Bengali) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Australia ) 


P . E . 


4 - 5 - 74 


B / 71945 


243 . 8 ( 1 ) 


74876 


" Australian Report” 

(English ) (Colour) 
(16 mm .) (Australia ) 


4 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71918 


182 -8 ( 1) 


no. 


74877 


“ Nitrogon Fixation by 
Logumos " (English ) 
(Colour) (16 mm .) 
( Australia ) 


4 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71971 


tho 
(1 


" Escape from 
Sea " (English ) 
mm .) (UK ) 


Productions 


74878 


614 - 78 (6 ) National Education & 

Information Films 
Ltd , 


Wallace 
Ltd . 


4 - 5 - 74 

U 
74879 


B /71992 


698 .90(6) 


Do. 


Roy Simpson , 


" Kadoyng " (English) 
(Colour) (16 mm .) 
(UK .) 


4 - 5 -74 


B / 71878 


74880 


" Kora Kagaz" (Hindi) 3649 -67 (14) Sanat Kothari, 12- A 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 

Moti Mansion , 3rd 
Floor , Sth Khotwadi 
Lano, Bombay -4 . 


Sanat Kothari, 12 - A . 
Moti Mansion , 3rd 
Floor, Sth Khotwadi 
Lane, Bombay -4 . 


4 - 5 - 74 


B /71022 


3223 


" Shatranj-Ko-Mohro " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) (35 
mm .) 


3620 - 74 ( 14 ) Ashok Chandra , “ Re- Shri Aghok Chandra , 

mbrandt " 20 - Palli Hill , 
Bombay- 50 . 


With trianglo mark . 


1 - 5- 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3624 .44 m . 

Cut. Reel 
No. No. 

Meters 
1 . II . Doloto the following dialogue of Surajaddresed to Manmohan : 

" Saala gaadi chalata hai ya apnimaa ko nachaata hai" ? . 1 . 10 
2. IV : Dolęto the following dialogue of Rajan addressed to Manmohan : 

“ My dear, Kisan tarjube kaar hona chaahiye kachhi pakki har 
zamoon hal ke ishaare par naachti hai" . 

2 .60 
Longth of deletions : . . . . . . . 3 .70 
Actual longth of the Alm after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3620 - 74 


2226 


JU 


( 4 ) 


( 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III -- Sec . 4 . 
( 2 ) (3 ) 

( ) 
Endorsement Under Rule : 34 

B /71877 
Film " Phir Kab Milogi" (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 74809 of 20 -4 - 1974 
Roel VI Doleted various shots : : : : : : : 45.00 m 

Actual length of the film after tho aforogaid doletions will bo 3833 -90 m in 15 reels. 

This certificato was endorsed on 29th April, 1974 . 
B /71643 
Film : “ Alingan ” (Hindi) (35 mm .) (Colour) 

Motres 
U - Cert. No, 74676 of 27-3 -1974 . 
ReclNo. 9 : Added various shots : · · · · · · · 62 .18 

13 . Added various shots ; . . . . . . . 59 . 13 
Longth of additions : 

. . . . . . . 121 -31 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be . 4157 - 17 
This cortificato was endorsed on 2nd May 1974 . 


CALCUTTA 

NIL 
MADRAS 


M /8572 


U 
67543 


Tamilnadu Govt. Re- 
gional News Bulletin 
No. 115 ( Tamil) 35 
mm . B & W . India . 


305 .00 (1) The Diroctorate of In - 

formation & Public 
Relations, Madras. 


The Directorate of In - 
formation & Public - 
Rolations, Madras. 


29 -4 - 74 


M /8560 


41 13 (1) 


U 
67544 


Chavi Match ( Tamil) 
( Colour ) 35 mm . 
India 


Sri Vijaya Publicities , Sri Vijaya Publicitics , 
Madras. 

Madrag. 


inm 


2 - 5 -74 


U 


M /8559 


G . P . Films, Madras. 


67545 


"Yoh Chor Yoh Lutera 3724 -34( 15) G . P . Films, Madras. 
(Hindi) 35 mm . B & 
W . India , 


3 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 11TH MAY, 1974 

BOMBAY 


IT 


B / 71924 


74881 


“ Kapas Ki Uttam 
Phagal Ka Rahagya " 
(Marathi) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) 


128 .63 ( 1) Film Media , 47 -Laxmi Mr. Jyoti G , Thakur. 

Ingurance Bldg ., Bom 
bay - 1 . 


7 - 5 - 74 


B /71933 


" Ungratoful Land " 

(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ) 


307 . 00( 1 ) Canadian High Com 

mission , Shanti Path , 
Chanakyapuri, New 
Delhi-21. 


National Film Board 
of Canada , Govt. of 
Canada . 


U 
74882 
- 
7 -5 -74 


P . E . 


B /71956 


U 
74883 


206 .00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


" Imprerial Sunset" 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm ) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


7-5-74 P.E. 


7 - 5 - 74 


B /71905 


74884 


" Trailor of U . Paar" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


89 . 91 (1) S . Kamruddin , Clo . Bagu Chatterji. 

Bombay Laboratus 
Bombay. 


7 -5 -74 


U 


B /72008 


74885 


" Got That Man " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) 


30 . 48 ( 1) Shri Gopal K . Maha - Shri S . Şakhdev, Uni 

resh , United film Arts , ted Film Arts . 
Worli Hill, Bombay . 


7 - 5 -74 


B /71958 


Produc 


74886 


" Small World " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (London ) 


343 - 70 ( 1) Mr. S . Almeida , Public Athos Film 

Relation Manager , tions Ltd , 
Air India , Bombay - I . 


P . E . 


7.5.78 


7 - 5 - 74 

U 
74887 


B /71976 


190 .00 ( 1 ) 


Not P . E . 


" Soarch Into Whito 
Space " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(Canada ) 


Canadian High Com National Film Board 
mission , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt. of - 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada . 
Dolhi- 21. 


8 - 5 -74 


PART III -- Sec, 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2227 


- 


- 


- 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


B /71979 


U 
74888 


" Paul Kane Goes 
West " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm ) 
(Canada ) 


P . E . 


113 .00 ( 1) Canadian High Commi- National Film Board 

ssion , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt . 
Chanakyapury , New of Canada . 
Delhi- 21 


8 -5 - 74 


B /71998 


183 . 00 ( 1) 


U 
74889 


Do , 


" Wheat" (English ) 
(Colour) (16 mm .) 
(Canada ) 


Not P. E . 


8 -5 -74 


U 


B /71977 


114 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


74890 


" Puberty in Boys " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (Canada ) 


P . E . 


8 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71955 


324 .00 (1 ) 


- 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


" Corporation -Growth " 
(English (16 mm .) 
(Canada) 


74891 


P . E . 


8 - 5 -74 

U 
74892 


B /71757 


" Scionco Report 149. 

A " (English ) ( 16 
mm ) ( USA ) 


151 . 79 (1 ) United States Informa - Robert Foster 

tion Sorvice , 4 -Now 
Marino Linos, Bom . 
bay -20 


PE 


8-5 -74 


B /72054 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No 1334" ( 35 mm ) 


167 - 33 ( 1) Films Division , Govt Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road, Bombay - 26 Road , Bombay - 26 


74893 ( Valid for English , 
- 

Hindi, Tamil, Tolu 
8 -5 - 74 gu, Kannada, Mala 

yalam , Assamoso , 
Oriya, Punjabi, 
Bongai, Kashmiri & 
Uldu versions ) 


U 


B /72055 


240 . 18 ( 1 ) 


Do 


DO 


74894 


" Indian News Roviow 
No 1334" (Woster 
Edition ) (35 mm ) 


8 - 5 - 74 


(Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, & Sindhi 
versions ) 


B /72057 


214 - 37 ( 1) 


74895 


“ Mahitichitra 
No. 183 Gujrati 
(35 mm .) 


Asstt Dir of informa - Dir of information 
tion , Govt, of Gujarat . Govt, of Gujarat, 


8 -5 - 74 

U 
74896 


B /71973 -7 


" Change" (English ) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


30 -48 (1) S . S . Oberoi, Art Com - S , S . Oboroi, Art Com 
morcia . 

moroia , 


8 - 5 - 74 

U 
74897 


B /71931 


“ Do Bhai" (Hindi ) 
( Colour) (35 m .m .) 


406 .00 (2) 


Do . 


Do. 


9 - 5 - 74 

U 
74898 


B /72046 


“ Lucknow -My Luc - 
koow " (Music only ) 
(35 mm .) 


421 . 13 (2 ) Surosh Nigam , Film 

Prod , Officer , Uttar 
Pradesh Govt., 
Lucknow . 


Surosh Nigam , Film , 
Prod . Officor, Uttar 
Pradosh Govt., 
Lucknow . 


Not P . E . 


9 -5 -74 


B /72061 


U 
74899 


" Then And Now " 
( Quickie) (English ) 
(35 mm .) 


31 . 00 (1 ) Films, Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24-Peddar 
Road, Bombay - 26 , Road , Bombay - 26 . 


P . E . 


9 - 5 -74 

U 
74900 


B / 72026 


" Air” ( English ) (Ccl- 
our ) ( 16 mm ,) 
(Canada ) 


32 . 00 (1 ) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mision , Shanti Path , of Canada Govt . of 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada , 
Dolhi-21. 


P . E . 


9 - 5 - 74 


U 


B / 72062 


288 . 00 ( 1) 


74901 


" Indian News Roviow 
No . 1334 (A )" ( Eng 
lish ) (Hindi) (35 mm .) 


Films Division , Govt . Films Division , Govt. 
of India , 24 - Poddas of India , 24 - Poddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 


9 -5 - 74 


B / 72063 


153 31( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
74902 


" Indian Nows Roview 
No. 1334 ( B ) ” (Eng 
lish & Hindi) ( 35mm .) 


9 -5 - 74 


B /72065 


" Without Miti"cement 


" Without Milk " (Eng 
lish & Hindi) 
(35 mm ) 


(1) 


Do 


U 
74903 


D 


o. 


14993 


9 -5 - 74 


- - - - - - - 


- 


12 - 3696I/ 75 


2228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART 1 - Sec . 4 


= 


= 


B /72051 


85 - 34 ( 1 ) 


U 
74904 


“ Trallor of Insaaniyat" 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 
mm ) 


I V . Films Corpora - 
tion , 4 - A Ravalpen - 
diwala , Bldg , Tri- 
bhuvan Road , Bom 
bay - 4 


Jagdish Varma , 4 - A 
Rayalpendi Bldg , - 
Tribhuvan Road , 
Bombay- 4 


10 - 5 -74 


B /71954 


74905 


" Corporation - Bilingua - 
Jism " (English ) (16 
mm ) (Canada ) 


324 00 (1) Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti Path , of Canada, Govt. of 
Chanakyapuri, Now Canada . 
Dolhi-21 


Not P . E . 


10 -5 - 74 


B /71974 


90 - 00 ( 1 ) 


Do 


Do . 


Fomale Cyclo " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) (16 
mm ) (Canada ) 


Do. 


74906 


14906 P.E 


P . E 


10 -3 -74 


B /71953 


166 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do 


"Chilled 


Do 


U 
74907 


Bohavin166.co(1) 


D 


o. 


" Child 

Bohaviour, 
You " (English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm ) 
(Canada ) 


_ 74907 


P . E 


10 - 5 -74 


B /71743 


74908 


With triangle mark 


10 - 5 - 74 


Metres 


0 . 50 


4 .15 


" Sapkalp (Hindi) 3494 . 82 (14 ) Twinklo Stars, 307 - Twinkle Stars, Bom 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

Hind Rajasthan bay - 14 . 

Bldg ., Bombay - 14 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3494 . 82 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No . 
VII ; Delete tho viows of Ramosh kissing a hippio giul . (Roplacod with 

Approved shot : 0 . 50 m .) . 
VIII : In the danco sequenco in hippios don , delete the close views of 

shaking of busts and midriffs by girls and also shots of closo 
physical proximity betweon male and female hippies, (Roplacod 

with approved shot : 4 . 15 m .) . . . . . . 
3 . IX : Delete the woi ds " Member of Parliamont" and " Member of 

Assembly " whilo introducing corrupt men at a party in tho 
houso of Harkishandas. (Doletod sound only ) (Roplaced with 

approved words). 
4 . XI : In tho hippio darice , sequence delete the shots of couplos 

making love either standing of lying on tho sand , keeping 
only a few unobjectionable flashos . Doloto scratching of art 
for blooding it and also roduço considerably Ramesh sucking 

the blood . (Replaced with approvod shols : 6 . 36 m .) . 
Longth of deletions : 11 :01 m . 
Length of approvod roplacoment : 11 .01 m . 
Longth of the film romains unchanged i.e. 3494 -82 m . in 14 reols. 


6 : 36 


B /71873 


" Tho First Day Of 280 .00 (1 ) National Educational Los Films du Levant 3224 
Life" (Les Promiers & Information Films 

P . E . 
Jaurs Do Lavje ) ( Eng Ltd , 

10 -5 - 74 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
Endorsement Under Rule 34 : 
B /71859 

Film : " Now Glimpses of Delhi” (Hindi) 
U -Cort. No . 74705 , of 29 -3 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for English vorsion of the film in colour, The longth of tho film remains unchangod . 

This cortificate was endorsed on 7th May , 1974 , 
B / 71632 

Film : “ When Droam Comes True " (English ) 
U -Cert. No. 74656 of 25- 3- 1974 

Rool No . 1 - Deleted yarious shots : 22 -00 m . 
Reol No. II : Deleted various shots : 40 .00 m . 
Length of dolotions : 62. 00 m , 
Actual length of the film after tho afortsajd dolotions will be : 360 . 00 m in 2 rools. This certificate was 
endorsed on 8th May, 74 . 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
Team 

- - - 


2229 


-- - - wwes - - 


- 


- - 


( 2 ) 


B / 71007 

Fun : “ Kahani Hum Subb Ki” (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 74158 of 31 -12- 1973 . 

Reel No. 2 ; Deleted various shots : 8 . 53 Mts . 
Recl No. 13 : Deleted various shots : 11 .28 Mts, 

Longth of deletions : 19 .81 Mts . 
Actual length of the film after aforesaid doloticns will be ; 3799 - 33 ni. 
This certificate was ondorsed on 8th May, 1974 , 
B /71643 

Film : " Alingan " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No . 74676 of 27 - 3 - 1974 

Metres 
Reel No . II i Deleted various shots . . . . 

36 - 58 
IV : Deleted varjous shots ; 

27 :73 
V : Deleted various shots 

28 -96 
VI Deleted various shots 

33 - 53 
XII : Deleted various shots 

20 73 
XIII : Deletd various shots 

20 :42 
XIV : Deleted various shots 

70 .41 
XV : Dleted various shots 

48 -77 
XVI : Deleted various shots . . 

45 . 11 
Length of deletions : 332- 24 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforsaid deletions will be : 3824 . 93 in . in 16 reels, 

This certificato was endorsed on 9th May 1974 . 
B /71600 

Film : " Do Numbor Ke Amecr ” (Hindi) 
A -Cort, No. 3222 of 11 -4 - 1974 

Metros 
Reel No . III : Deleted various shots 

8 . 84 
VIII : Deleted various shots 

35 - 36 
XIII : Deleted various shots 

11 . 89 
XV i Deleted various shots 

13 .41 
XVI ; Deleted various shots . 

35 . 97 
XVII : Deleted various shots . 

58 .52 
Length of deletions : 163. 99 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid delotions will be ; 3792 29 m . 

This certificato was endorsod on 9th May , 1974 . 
B /69853 

Film : " Aavishkar " (Hindi) 
U -Cort, No. 73532 of 26 - 9 - 1973 . 

Merres 
Reel No. 11 : Deleted various shots 

29 . 25 
III : Deleted various shots 

1 .22 
VI Deleted various shots 

11 . 58 
VII : Deleted various shots 

16 . 76 
X : Deleted various shots , 

94 . 79 
xil ; Deleted various shots , . 

. . . . 3 . 66 
Length of deletions : 157 - 26 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3083 -38 m . 

This certificate is valid with or without above alteration . This certificate was endorsed on 9th May, 1974 
B /71487 

Film : " Dost” (Hindi) (Colour ) 
U -Cort, No. 74746 of 8 -4 - 1974. 
Corrections : 

The name of the applicantmay be read as M /s . Suchitra inslcad ofMr. Premnath Manchanda . 
This certificate was cndorsed on 10th May, 1974 . 


- 


2230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART Sec. 4 


.. . 


2 


- 


CALCUTTA 

Nil 
MADRAS 


M /8558 


P . 


U 
67546 


Ali, 


Naya Din Nai Raat 3781 . 56 ( 14 ) Janu Pictures, Madras Shri N . 
(Hindi) 35 pm . Col. 

Madras . 
India . 


7 - 5 -74 


M / 8974 


Chattakkari (Mala - 3732 .89 (15) Manjilas Cino Enter - Manjilas Cine Enter - 67547 
yalain ) 35 mm . 

prises , Madras . 

prises, Madras . 
Colour . India 

7 -5 -74 with Cuts 
Endorsemont on cert No. 67547 -U dt. 7th May, 1974_-_ issued to the film Chattakkari (Malayalam ) ( Colour ). 
Length applied : 3733 - 80 Metres , 
Cuts . 

Metres 
1. Reel 1 - Delete the words " Bloody Indians wherever it occurs. 

(Sound only ). . . . . 
2. Reel 6 - Delete the word " Dog " from the oxpression “ Indian dog " . 

(Soundonly ) . . . . 
3. Reel 7 Delete tho words " Bloody Indians” in tho dialogue and 
the word " Dog " . . . 

0 .91 
4. Reel 12 – Delete the word “ Dog " . (Sound only ). . . 

Total : 0 . 91 


Actual length of the film will be 3732 - 89 Metres in 15 Reels . 
"Gauravam (Telugu ) 3804 . 20 (13 ) Anand Moyles , Anand Movies 
(Colour) 35 mm . 

Madras, 

Madras. 


U 
67548 


M /8554 


India. 


10 - 5 -74 


M /8535 


67549 


"Andharu Dongalo 4222 . 00 (15 ) Pallavee Productions, Pallavoo Productions , 
( Tolugu ) (Colour ) 

Madras. 

Madras . 
35 mm . India . 


10 - 5 -74 


M /8573 Bhatti Vikramaditya 4433 .61 ( 16 ) Shri Ram Films, Ban - Shri Ram Films, Ban 67550 
(Kannuda ) 35 mnm . 

galoro . 

galoro . 
B & W . India . 

10 -5 -74 
Particulars of Films Certified or Refused Certification by the Central Board of Censors During the Week ending the 18th May 1975 

BOMBAY 

U 
B / 72049 " Textiles of India " 331 .01 B . R . Films, Andand B . R . Films, Andand 74909 
(English ) (Colour) 

Villa , 15th Road , Villa , 15th Road, - - 
(35mm .) , 

Bombay -54 . Bombay - 54 . 

13 -5 - 74 


U 


B / 72067 


" Trailer of Kora 

Kagaz" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


76 . 50 

( 1) 


74910 


Shreeji Films, Air Sanat Kothari . 

Conditioned 
Markot, Bombay - 34 


13 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /71980 


98 . 46 


" Trailor of Bazaar 

Band Karo " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35mm .) 


S . Kamruddin , B . R . I. Arts 

74911 
Bombay . Universal. 

13 -5 -74 

U 
Films Division , Films Divisions, 74912 

Govt. of India , Govt. of India , - 
24 -Peddar Road 24 - Poddar Road 14 -5 - 74 
Bombay- 26 . 

Bombay-26 . 


B /72086 


" Indian Nows Ro 

view No . 1333 " 
(Northern Edition ) 
( 35ınm .) 


300 -00 

( 1) 


(Valid for English 

Hindi, Kashi 
miri, Punjabi 
& Urdu, yor 
slons.) 


U 


B / 72087 


Do . 


Do . 


200 .00 

( 1 ) 


" Jadian News Rc- 

view No . 1335 " 
( 35mm .) , 


74913 


14 - 5 -74 


(Valid for English, 

Hindi, Marathi 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Tolugu , Kannada, 
Malayalam , Aşga 
mese, Oriya & 
Bengal versions) 


U 
74914 


B / 72056 


80 . 78 

( 1 ) 


triangle 


“ Trailer of Inter 

national Crook " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


P . S . Pictures , 205 - 

Fainous Cine Bldg . 
Bombay . 


With 
mark 


P . S . Pictures, 205 

Famous Cino Bldg, - 
Bombay . 


14 - 5 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2231 


umh 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


ThH 


Endorsement 
Original Length : 82 . 00m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
I I : Reduce considerably the impact of violence : 1 .22 m . 

( Deleted complitely ) 
Length of deletions : 1 . 22m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletion will be 80 .78 in . 


U 


B /72006 


(Eng - 


" Symphony" 

lish ) (35mm .) 


90 .00 
(1 ) 


Madhusudan Kumar, 
62- Geetanjali, 
Colaba , Bombay -5. 


Madhuşudan Kuinar , 

Bombay - 5 . 


P .E . 


74915 

- 
14 - 5 - 74 

U 
74916 

– 
14- 5- 74 


B /71972 


331 - 93 


“ The Limits to 

Growth " ( English ) 
( Colour) (16mm .) 


United Statos In - 

formation Service , 
4 -New Marin Lines, 
Bombay - 20 . 


U . S . Information , 

Agency . 


P. E . 


B /72047 


318 . 82 

(1) 


Do. 


" Challonge For 

Chango " (Eng - 
lish ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


Gcorge R . Pitt / 

A . H . Perlmuttor . 


U 
74917 

- Not P.E . 
14 - 5 - 74 


B /72048 


268 . 83 

( 1) 


Do . 


" Vision USA 23" 

( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (USA ). 


Thomas Craven . 


U 
74918 

- - 
14- 5 -74 


P .E . 


B /71960 


120 . 00 

(1 ) 


74919 


" The Kangaroos- 

Part -II Varieties " 
(Bengali ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Australia ) 


Australian High 

Commission . 


Australian 

inonwcalth 
Unit. 


Com - 
Film 


- 


P . E . 


14 5 -74 


B / 71959 


120 . 00 


Do. 


Do . 


74920 


" The Kangaroos 

Part-I Biography " 
(Bengali) ( Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Australia ) 


- 


P . E . 


14 - 5 - 74 


B /72095 


79 . 55 


" The Price you Pay ” 

( English ) (35mm .) 


P . E . 


U 
Films Division, Films Division , 74921 
Govt. of India , Govt. of India , 
24 -Peddar Road , 24- Peddar Road , 14 - 5 - 74 
Bombay -26 . Bombay - 26 , 

U 
Do . 

Do. 

74922 

- - 
14 - 5 - 74 


B /72099 


" A Few moro Ques - 

tions" (Hindi) 
(35mm .) 


398 - 15 

(1 ) 


P . E . 


B /71952 


1026 .00 


" Cry of The Wild ” 

(English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) 


(3 ) 


Canadian High Com - National Film Board 

mission , Shanti of Canada , 
Path , Chankya 
puri, New Delhi-21 . 


74923 

- - - - 
16 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B /8544 


B /71812 


With 

mark . 


trianglo 


" Maha Bhakta 

4356 . 21 M /s. Anjali Com - M /s . Anjali Pictures , 74924 
Tukaram " 

(17 ) bines , 2 , Pughs Combine. 
(Marathi) (Colour) Road , Madras - 28 . 

16 - 5 -74 
( 35mm .) (Madras) 

U 
" Insaaniyat” (Hindi) 3821 -89 Jagdish Varma, J.V . Jagdish Varma, J.V . 74925 
(Colour) ( 35mm ) ( 15 ) Films, Corporation , Films Corporation , - - - - 

4 - A , Ravalpindi 4 - A , Ravalpindi- 16 - 5 - 74 
wala Bldg., 

wala Bldg ., 
Bombay - 4 . 

Bombay - 4 , 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 3864 -24m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 

Metres 
1. 1 : * Reduce tho shots of a teacher beating a young student with cane to only 

two times. 

(Length retained : 1 -52m .) 
2. II : (a ) Delete the shots of magazine cover with a nude photograph . . . 3 35. 

(Replaced with approved shots : 3 . 35m .) 

(6) Delete reference to " Shaikh Abdulla " ? . . . . . 3 -96m . 
3 . IV : Delete tho word " Bastard " uttered by Lina to Dilip ( indisguise of Ab 

dulla ) who is sitting on tho trco top . ( Sound) 





. 


2 .44. 


2232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEC, 4 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - -- -- - - - - - - - 

- --- - - - - - --- - 


- 


= 


- - - 


- -- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - -- 


. 


- - - - - - 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


( 1 ) 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


vu 


. - . 


4 . V : During the song " Main tumse pyar karta hoon " , delete the impression of 
Leena kissing Dilip . . 

1 ·22m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 1 . 22m .) 
5 . VI : (a ) Delete the view of Raglıuvir killing a jail warder ncar the gate. 7 .62m , 

(6 ) In the scenes ofkilling of children by Raghuvir delete all tho symbolic 

shots except the first shot. . . . . . . . . 3 .04m . 
VII : Delete both the views of Michael Parrora s mouth with blood oozing out 
after he is killed in the accident . 

. 3•35m . 
IX : * Reduce the shot of Raghuvir dying and also the impact of killing of children 

shown in Hash back when Raghuvir recollects them while dying. . . 12 . 19m . 

(Length retained : 7 .62m .) 
8 . XII : Delete the view , of Leona kissing Dilip on the cheok . . . . . 0 .61m . 
9 . XIII : Dilip and Ram are imprisoned for alleged murder of Rughuvir but they 

are taken in Police Jecp without hand cuffs and allowod to escape . This 
noeds to be modified , otherwise it presents a poor picture of the ad 
ministrators of Law . . 

7 -62m . 
(Deleted , . . . . .) (Modified ; 3 .66m .) 
10 . XIV & * Reduce the view of Sandow being trampled by an elephant to a flash : 1 . 22m . 

(Length retained ; 0 .61m . ) 
XV * 

Reduce the impact of fight at the end by reducing sound effects of shricks, 
close punches, blood on face etc . 

. . . , 3 . 96m . 
(Longth retained ; 24 .08m .) 
Length of deletions : 50 -58m . 
Length of replacement and additions 8 . 23m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 3821 89m . 
in 15 reels . 


B / 71849 


74926 

- - - - 
17 - 5 - 74 


With triangle 

mark . 


" Hanuman Vijay 3877 -67 Basant Pictures , 

Başant Pictures , 
Yang Jai Shri (14 ) 136 -Clamarbaug Bombay - 12 . 
Ram " (Hindi) 

Road , Parel, Bom 
(Colour) (35mm .) 

bay - 12 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3883 . 16m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. (I ; Delete the words “ Kya hoga - wahi. . jo hota aya hai wohi hoga " as said 

by Sahi in the disguise of a girl whilo taking the fat man to bod . (De 

leted sound only ) (Replaced with approved sound) 
2 . V : Delete the underlined words from tho dialogue " Maaf kee jiya -- Necche 

khujla diyu " as spoken by Sahi to Ahi Rayan while massaging his legs. 

(Deleted sound only ) (Replaced with approved sound) 
V : Reduce the torture of Chandrasena with flames in close ups . . . . 

(Length retained : 3 - 36m .) 


3 .05m . 


4 


XIV : Reduce the number of lashing on Chandrasena when she is tortured by 

Mahadevi. 
(Length retained : 3 :05m .) 
Length of deletions : 5 .49m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3877 -67m . 


B /72053 


" Philips" (Lights ) 

( English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


74917 


30 - 48 

( 1) 


Kieth Allams, 3 -Cool- l11 

Apartments , 
Bombay - 50 . 


Keith Allams, 

M /s . Kappa, 


18 -5 - 74 


B /72064 


U 


" Trailer of Jurm 
" Aur Sazaa " (Hindi) 
Colour) (35mm .) 


91 -44 

(1 ) 


B . K . Sharına , 

Young Techni 
cians, Kochar 
Bhavan , Bombay -52. 


B . K . Sharma, 
Young Techni- 
cians, Kochar - 
Bhavan , Bombay- 52 . 


74928 


18 -5 - 74 

U 
74929 


B /72021 


" The Egg" (Music 

only ) with Titles 
in English (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


63 .00 

( 1 ) 


Canadian High Com - National Films 
mission , Shanti Board of Canada. 
Path , Chankyapuri, Goyt. of Canada. 
New Delhi-21. 


- 


P . E . 


18 - 5 - 74 


B / 72019 


46 . 00 

( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


74930 


" Ensembles , Dos " 
Music only with 
Titles in French ) 
(Colour ) 
(Canada. ) 


U 
74930 

- - Not P .E . 
18- 5 - 74 


2233 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- -- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - 

-- - - - - - - - -- - - - . " 
(1 ) (2 ) 

(5) (0) 


- 


- - - - 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


(7) 


B / 71914 


653 00 


Not P , E . 


" Hard Rider " (Eng- 

lish ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (Canada ) 


Canadian High Comm |- National Films 
ssion , Shanti Path , Board of Canada 
Chankyapuri, 

Govt, of Canada, 
New Delhi-21. 


A 
3225 
- - -- 

16 - 5 -74 


B/71101 


Free 1 


with triangle 
mark , 


“ Free Love" (Hindi) 3974 . 59 Priya Kala Chitra, Sarvjcct , 138 3226 
(Colour) (35mm .) 

( 15 ) 

138 -Famous Cine Famous Cine Bldg., - -- - 
Bldg., Bombay- 11. Bombay- 11 . 

17 -5 -74 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4006 - 96m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. I : Reduce Prominent view of Asha s Face and body waist upwards whilo 
tightly held by a killer . . . 

, , , , 

0 .20m . 
(Length retained : 0 . 91m .) 
2. I : Reduce the prominont shot of the girl s dead body with blood on her 
skirt lying on the rocks. 

. . . . . . . 0 . 52 
( Lcngth retained ; 122m ) 
3 . III Delete Mohan s dialoguo addressed to Gecta " Jo tumhare andar hai 

we bahar laao " While taking about changing her dress . . . . 1 . 22m . 

(Replaced with approvod dialogue : 1 .22m .) 
4 , JIL : Reduce shots whore Bandookwala looks Suggestively at Geeta when 

sho enters Mohan s Office and delete his subsequont dialoguo : 
" (Garmihoti hai to goli khaa lcta hoon ." 

. . . . 2 .48m . 
(Replaced with approved dialogue : 0 . 65m .) 
5. III Delete the double meaning dialogue betwoen a girl and Bandookwala 

when sho says " Tumharo bandooknien goli nahi hai. . . . . . ,kheno 
ko kitno tarike hai, . . . etc . . . . . . . . . 1 . 10m . 

(Replaced with dialogue : 1 . 10m .) 
6 . V : In the clubdance performed by Rita , delete the beginning shots where 

sho moves her foot upwards along Mohan s leg and makes indecorous 
movements of her logs and midrift. 

. . . . . 4 . 78m . 
(Replaced with approved shots ; 4 . 78m .) 
7. VII : Delete Mohan s dialogue addressed to Geeta while wanting to hore sex 
with her : " Jitna khowogi usse kitno gunit jyada tum powogi" . 

2 13m 
(Replaced with approved dialogue : 0 .61m .) 
8 . IX : Delete tho indecorous portion of the shot when Lily is talking to a fat 
man impersonating as officer, , , , 

. . . . . 110m . 
(Roplaced with approved shots : 1 . 10m .) 
9 . IX ; Reduce the scene in which Geeta is forcibly made to drink and the last 

shot of Goota when camera is focussed on her breast . . . 7 . 23m . 
(Replaced with approved shots 0 .61m .) 

(Length retained : 13 . 81 m .) 
X : Delete Mohan s remark addressed to Geeta " Tum kalise phool han 

gayoc ho " . 
: Delete the underlined word from the following dialogue of Mohan 

" Frec love ki is Zamane mcn masocmiyat bhi frec aur ladkiran bhi 
free hain " . 3 , 310 ). (Replaced with approved word ). , 

3 . 31 m . 
XI : Reduce the sechc of Ramesh being beaten up by Mohan s goondas. , 3 .96m . 

(Length rotainod : 14 . 85m .) 
13 . XI : Delete the portion of the shot showing Geeta caressing her thigh in the 
foreground while reclining on bed ." 

. . . . 2 . 28m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 . 30in .) 
14 . XI : Delete Ramesh s dialoguo " Apna to dharma hai Free Love" . . , 1 . 22m . 

(Replaced with approved dialogue : 1 . 22m .) 
XU : Delete Rita s dialogue " Aaj Apni pyas doorse buzalye aap ke ban 
dook men goli nahin hai, " addressed to Bandookwala . . 

. 4 . 85m . 
(Replaced with approved shot : 3 . 05m .) 
16 . XII : Delete Bandookwala s dialogue " Na aata to malum kaise hotu niere 

bandookmen goli hai ya nuhin " addressed to Rita when he surprises 
hor at Juhu Beach . 

: : 2 . 37m , 
(Replaced with approved shots : 2 . 37m .) 
- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


2234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART IIT- - SEC , 4 , 


- 


- - 


(3) 


(4) 


(31 


(0 


17 . Reduce the scene when Rita is being stabbed by Bandookwala and delete his 

dialoguo “ Myin mori pyas bujhake rakhoonga , chahe tumhare mar 
noke baad . . . . . 

7 . 9201. 
(Replaced with approved shots : 4 .79m .) 

(Longth retained : 23 .62m .) 
18 . XIV : Reduce tho scene in which Bandookwala tortures Gecta and slashes 
a knife at hor ropeatedly . 

. . , 
(Deleted completly ) 
Length of deletions : 57 . 48m . 


- 1 .67 m . 


th of the Tonlacement : 25 :48m . 


balotions and replacement 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions and replacement 
will be : 3974 . 59m . 

ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 . 
B / 72070 - 74 

Film : “ Happy Family " (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 74644 datod 22- 3 - 1974. 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil, Telugu Kannada and Malayalam yersions 
of the film in colour. The longth of the film remains unchanged . This certi 

ficate was endorsed on 13th May , 1974 
B / 72080- 84 
Film : Littl. Champ (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cort. No . 74647 dated 22 - 3 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali, Tamil , Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam 
versions of the film in colour. The length of the film romains unchanged . This 

certificate was endorsed on 13th May 1974 , 
B /72075 -79 
Film : " The Trip " (Hindi) (Colour) 

U - Cert, No. 74645 dated 22- 3 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for Bengali , Tamil, Telugu , Kannada and Malayalam 
vorsions of the film in colour, Tho length of tho film foinains unchanged . This 
certificato was ondorsod on 13th May 1974 . 

CALCUTTA 


73420 


C /8014 


Manihara (Bengali) 

(35mm .) India . 


1,636 .78 

(7 ) 


Chhayabani Private 

Ltd , 77, Dharam 


Pro 
Ltd . 


Satyajit Ray 

ductions ( P ) 
1 / 1Bishop 
Lefroy Road , 
Calcutta -20 


16 -5 - 74 


tal St., Cal-13. 


tal St., Cal.-13. 


Road 


16 


MADRAS 


M / 8594 


305 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Tamilnadu Govt. 
Regional 

News 
Bulletin No. 116 
( Tamil) ( 35mm ) 
B & W . India . 


The Directorate 

of Information 
& Public Relations 
Madras, 


U 
The Directorate 67551 

of Information - 
& Public Relations 14 - 5 - 74 
Madras. 


67552 


With cuts, 


M /8513 


15 - 5 - 74 


Prem Nagar (Hindi) 4658 - 87 Vijaya & Surosh Shri D . Rama Naidu, 

(Colour ) (35mm .) (18) Combines , Madras. Madras. 

India . 
Endorsement on certificato No. 67552- U dated 15-5 - 74 issued to the film Prem Nagar" 
(Hindi) ( Eastmancolour) (35mm .) 
Longth in the application , 4670 . 73 Mts. 
Cuts. 
1. Reel 5 - Delete the whipping of the farmer by Shamsher . . . . . . 
2. Reel 8 - Delete the sontence of Takat Ram " Aajkal Sarkaren to lottery par chalati 
hain aur dosh ko lottory pal chalute hain " . . 

Total . . . 


Metres. 
3 .64 


8 . 22 
11 .66 


M /8580 


- 


67353 

---- With cuts , 
15-5-74 


Actual length of the film will he 4658 . 87 Merres in 18 Reels. 
"Night Duty 

3896 - 04 Evershine Pro - Evershing Pro. 
(Malayalam ) 

( 15 ) ductions, Madras . ductions, Madras. 
(35mm .) B & W ., 

India , 
Endorsement on cortificate No. 67553-U dated 15th May 1974 — Jssued to the Alni Night 
Duty (Malayalam ) (35mm .) B & W . 
Longth applied . 3960 :40 Metres. 

- - --- - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- - 


PART III — SEC. 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2235 


N 


ETI 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


2 


4 


- 
6 


- - - 


Aetres 


20 - 70) 
2 - 43 


7 . 30 


19 .20 


Cuts. 
1. Recl 4 .. Delete all words and action of the Christian preacher except the refer 

ence to themurder. . . 
? Rre 5 Delete the vulgar actions of the Nambudiris in " Tiruvathira Kuli song " . 
3. Reel 6 -Delete the dialogue " If I can milk a cow that has not calvec , I can milk 

you " . 

“ I know how to deal with a girl" . . . . . . . . 
4 Reel 7 – Delete the dialogue : — " Even if you don t.. . I want your middle " (in the 

hotel room ) . 
Also delete all dialogue betweon husband and wife after the two hotel 

attendants leave the room . 
5. Reel 7 – Delete Panicker without dhoti in the hotel room . . . . . . 
6 . Reel 8 — Reduce the alteration of Police with gamblers to a flash . . . . 
7 . Reel - - Delete the shot of Nambudiri with a woman after the arrival of Vimala ; 

parents . 
8 . Reel 11 - Delete Nabudiri punching his wife on the abdomen . . . 
9 . Rrel 12 - Delete the dialogues between Krishnan Kutty and Rajamma : 

" you can undress mo in the room " said in a vulagar way . . . . i. e. you c.in 
catch hold of the "Kuthu inside tho room . . 

Total . 


2 .13 
8 . 52 


2 . 74 
0 . 91 


2 . 43 


66 - 36 


Actual length of the film will be 3896 - 04 Metres in 15 Reels. 


M /8597 


129 - 53 


M /s. Vijaya & Suresh 

Combines , Madras, 


U 
67554 


Shri D . Rama Naidu , 

Madras . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Trailer of Prem 
Nagar " (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35mm .) 
India , 


18 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSOR 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING 25TH MAY , 1974 

BOMBAY 


U 


B /71971 


(1) 


With triangle 

mark . 


“ Trailer of Kahani 75 - 28 MS Shankar Films, 

Shri Rajkumar Kohli, 74931 
Hum Sab Ki” 

227 - Famous Cinç M /s Shankar Films - - - - 
(Hindi) (Colour) Bldg., Boinbay - 1. Bombay- 1 . 

20 - 5 - 74 
( 35mm . ) 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 88 .08m . 
(Length retained 2 - 44n1.) 
Reduce the impact of violence considerably Volunterily deleteil . , 

2 44m . 
(Length retained 2 . 44m .) 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 75 - 2871 . 


U 


B /72102 


74932 


" Trailor of Imtihan " 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm ) 


88 . 39 

(1 ) 


M / s Film Effects , M /s . Film Effects, 

Fanious Cine Bldg., Famous Cine Bldg ., 
Boinbay -11 . 

Bombay - 11. 


20 - 5 - 74 

U 
74933 


With triangle 

mark . 


20 - 5 -74 


Metres 


1 . 22m . 


B / 71930 " Anjaan Raahen " 3560 . 41 Mohan Films, 

Mohan Sablouk 
(Hindi) ( Colour ) ( 15 ) Sablok Mansion , Mansion , 
(35mm .) 

Bombay - 52 . 

Bombay- 52 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3600 .59 mts . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1. i : In the class-room scquenco , delete the two ropcated close shots of a 

magazine with nude photographs of women in it, retaining the first 
shot when it is held by Rakesh , for the sake of continuity . . . . 
(Length retained : 0 .91m .) 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1 . 06m .) 
II : Delete the last shot of mouse moving on the Matron s leg and trying 

to go above under the patticoat. 
III : Delete the vulgur actions of a boy rubbing and pinching the buttock of 
liis girl partner while dancing, 

, 
4 . VIII : Reduce the fight between Gautain and Villain Raju and his men , de 

leting close shots of hits on face , stomach and lead , and also some 
kicks by leg . . . . . . . . 

. . . 
(Length retained : 14 -63m .) 
13- -- 369 GI/ 75 


0 - 45ın . 


0 54m . 


11 . 28ın . 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


2236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III — SEC. 4 


- - 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 

2 


-- - - 


- - -- - - - ---- - 


- - - 


-- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


5 . IX Reduce considerably the love-making scene of Rajen and Sunceta by 

delering the shots of their physical intimacy , particulaily very Intimate 
suggestion of kiss , two partially camouflaged lengthy shots of actual 
kissing, cxtreme close up of hands showing erotic actions, prolonged 
diffuscal shot suggesting sexual act, keeping the bare minimum necessary 
for continuity . . 

: 15 .61m . 
(Length retained : 26 .91m .) 
6 . X : (4 ) In the attempted rape of Geeta by Raju reduce drastically the shot 
of their rolling over eaclı other , 

. . 4 -07m . 
(Deleted completely ) 
(6 ) Reduce the fight between Raju and Anand by delering the gruesomo 

visuals of hard hits on the facc & stomach and kicks by leg . : 8 . 07m . 
(Length retained : 3 - 81m .) 
Length of deletions : 41 -24m . 
Length of the replacement 1 .06m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions and replace 
ments will be 3560 .41m . in 15 Reels. 

U 
“ Shaver Swish " 

30 -48 M /s Television Radio M /s Television Radio 74934 
(English ) (Colour) ( 1) 

& Motion Pictures & Motion Pictures - 
( 35mm ) 

6 - A - Rashmi Car 6 - A -Rashmi Car- 21- 5 - 74 
maiclo Road , 

maicle Road , 
Bombay-26 . 

Bombay - 26 . 


B / 72085 


B / 72096 


“ Swish " (Hindi) 

( Colour (35mm .) 


30 . 48 


Do . 


Do. 


74935 


21- 5- 74 


B / 72097 


74936 


30 - 48 

(1 ) 


" You Can t Boat 

Tho Man Wlio 
Shaves with Swish " 
(Gujarati) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) 


21 - 5 -74 


B /71997 


30 .48 


" The Sweet Way 
to Growth " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) 


M /s Trio 

Jyoti 
Kennedy 
Bombay - 7 . 


Films, M /s. Trio 
Studios Jyoti 
Bridge , Kennedy 

Bombay - 7 . 


U 
Films, 74937 
Studios, - 
Bridge , 21 - 5 - 74 


B /72020 


74938 


117 . 00 

( 1) 


" Harvesting " (Music 

only with Titled 
in English (Co 
lour ) (16mm .) 
(Canada) 


Canadian High Com - 
mission , Shanti 
Path , Chanakya- 
puri, New Delhi- 20 . 


National Film Board 

of Canada , 
Govt. of Canada, 


P . E . 


21 - 5 - 74 


B / 72015 


73 .00 

( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 
74939 


Do. 


14939 pe 


- 


P . E . 


" Mirage " (Music 

only , titles in 
English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (Canada ) 


21- 5 - 74 


B /72014 


Do , 


31 .00 

(1) 


“ N Adjustez Pas" 

(Don t Adjust it ) 
(Music only with 
titles in English ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm ) 
(Canada ) 


74940 

- PE. 
21 - 5 -74 


U 


B / 72059 


74941 

- - With 
21 - 5 - 74 mark . 


trianglo 


" Balak Dhruy " 3631 . 98 Hadoti Films, 

Shivaji Mane, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) ( 15 ) Jyoti Stutio , 

Madan & Kailash 
( 35mm .) 

Kennedy Bridge , Shacma Bombay , 

Bombay - 7. 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3651 80m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 
1. IX : (4 ) Delete tho roference to " Laghu shanka " and decrgha Shanka " 

in the dialogues botween the children and an elderly inmate of the 
ashram . . . , 

. . . . . . 
(6 ) Deleic the sexy action of the girl trying to attract the attention of 

the comedian chajacter in the ashram . Also delete the inde 
cent Eustures of the comedian . . . 

. .. 

. . . . 
Length of deletions : 19 . 82m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 
3631 . 98m . in 15 Reels. 


13 .72m . 


6 . 10m , 


- 


- 


PART III - SEC . 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
--- - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- 

- - 


2237 
= - - 


= 


U 


B /72018 


172 . 00 

( 1 ) 


“ Entre Cell Et Neige 

(Between Sky and 
snow ) (Music only 
with Titles in 
French (Colour) 
(16mm .) Canada ) 


Canadian High Com - National Films 74942 
mission , Shanti Board of Canada, - - - - - Not P . E . 
Path , Chanakya Govt. of Canada . 21- 5 - 74 
puri, New Delhi-20 . 


B / 72017 


Do . 


Do. 


232 . 00 

(1 ) 


U 
74943 


- 


P . E . 


" Jalan , Jalan , Jour- 

ney in Sudanese 
Jawa " (No Com 
mentary) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (Canada ). 


21 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72023 


Do , 


Du, 


119 .00 

( 1) 


" Ballet Adagio " 

(Music only with 
titles in English ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 
Canada ) 


74944 

- Not P . E . 
21- 5 - 74 


U 


B /72016 


Do. 


Do. 


101 . 00 

(1) 


" Little Men of Chro 

magnon " (Music 
only with titlos 
in Englisli ) ( 16mm .) 
(Colour ) (Canada ) 


74945 
- - - P . E . 

21 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72010 


Do , 


Do , 


" Wind " (No Com 
montary ( Colour ) 
(16ınm .) (Canada ) 


112 . 00 

( 1) 


74946 

em 
21 - 5 - 74 


Not P . E . 


U 


B / 72022 


119 . 00 


Do, 


Do , 


" Centaur” (No Com - 
mentary ) (Colour) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


un ) 


( 1 ) 


74947 

- 
21 -5 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B /72013 


Do . 


Do . 


" North " (Nu Com - 
mentary ) (Colour) 
(16nın .) (Canada ) 


164 - 00 

(1 ) 


74948 

--- Not P .L . 
21 - 5 - 74 

U 
74949 

Not P .E . 
21 - 5 -74 


B /72012 


Do. 


Do . 


“ Very Nice Very 

Nico " (No Com 
mentary ) ( 16mm .) 
Canada , 


85 .00 

(1 ) 


B / 72027 


91 .00 


Do . 


Do . 


" Balablok ” (No 

Commentary ) 
(Colour ) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada) 


74950 

L 
21-5 - 74 


. P . E . 


B / 72103 


" Indian Nows 

view No. 
(35mm .) 


Ro- 
1336 " 


235 .00 

( 1) 


Filins Division , 

Govt. of India , 
24 Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


74951 
- - - - + -- - ( Valid for Eng 
22 -5 - 74 lish , Hindi, 

Marathi, Guja 
rati, Tamil , 
Telugu , Kannada 
Malayalam , 
Punjabi, Kash 
miri, Urdu & 

Sindhi versions.) 
U 
74952 

- Valid for English , 
22 -5 - 74 Hindi, Bengali, 

Assamese & 
Oriya versions.) 


B /72107 


Do. 


Do . 


" Indian NowsRc- 

view No . 1336 " 
( Eastorn Edition ) 
( 35mm .) 


301 - 00 

( 1) 


B /72105 


74953 


" Maharashtra News 

No. 264 " (Marathi) 
(Hindi) (35mm .) 


298 .00 

(1 ) 


The Dir. General The Dir. General 
Information & 

Information & 
Public Relation , Public Relation , 
Govt. of 

Govt. of 
Maharashtra , 

Maharashtra . 


22 -5 - 74 


B /72052 


" The Living Space" 

(Hindi) ( 35mm .) 


226 .40 


Chandu Films, 

Bombay- 58 . 


Chandu Films, 

40 / 1615 , D . N . 
Nagan , Andhori 
(W ) Bombay - 58 . 


U 
74954 

- 
22 -5 - 74 


P . E . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


2238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) [PART 011 -- SEC , 4 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- 


1 


· 


. .- - - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


U 


B / 72015 


" You The First Vic - 

tim " (English ) 
( 35mm .) 


284 . 00 

( 1) 


Films Division , 

Govt. of Indja , 
24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 -Paddar Road , 
Bombay -26 . 


74955 
- - - - 

22 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B /71037 


5189 . 00 

(19 ) 


Sc vexportfilm , 

Bakhtavar, 
Bombay - 5 


The Gorky Filin 
Studio . 


" At Dawn It s quiet 
Hero" ( English ) 
(Colour) 

Sovescopo) (35mm .) 
( USSR ) 


74956 

-- - - 
23 - 5 - 74 


With 
mark . 


trianglo 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 5, 210 .00 mts. 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1 . 


V 


; From the steam bath soquence delere all the visuals of women with bajo 
busts and hips 

. . . . . . 210 ni, 
Length of deletionis : 210 m . 


Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will re : 5 ,189 .00 mts . in 19 rouls . 


B /72098 


" To The Rescue" 

(Bengali ) (Colour) 
( 35mm ) 


30 .48 

(1 ) 


P . E . 


74957 

- 
23 - 5 - 74 

U 
74958 

- - - 
23 - 5 - 74 


B / 72009 


90 . 00 
( 1 ) 


M /S Tolevision Ms, Tolevision 

Radio And Motion Radio And 
Pictures , 6 - A Motion Pictures , 
Rashmi, Bombay - 26 . Bombay - 26 . 
Canadian High National Film Board 
Commission , 

of Canada, 
Shanti Path , 

Govi. of Canada. 
Chanakyapuri, 
Now Dolhi-20 . 


" Notions Elenen 
lairos Do Conc 
tique" ( The Elo 
ments of Gonotics) 
(No Commentary ) 
(Colour ) (16mm .) 


P . E . 


B /71901 


( 180 ) 

( 1) 


" A Life in yoll 

Hand " (Breath of 
Life ) ( LNylisji ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(Canada ) ( W . G .) 


Hoechst Pharma 

ceuticals Ltd ., 
Roman House , 
Bombay - 20 . 


Dr. Fritz 

roich Film 
duction , 
Heidolhorg. 


U 
Hyclen - 74959 
Pro - - - - - 

23 - 5-74 


P . E . 


U 


B /72066 


" Sabliyata Ko Nupur " 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


428 - 24 

( 2 ) 


Topuz Movies, Naina Thakur , 

74960 
19 - Shivaji Park Ril. Pro , Topac Movios - - 
Bombay-28 . Bonlay - 28 , 

23-5 -74 

U 
Subhash Solgill Kamil Minocha for 74961 
For Minocha Pro - Minocha Pro 

--- - Not P. L . 
duction , Bombay. duction 

23- 5 - 74 


B /72030 


" Huni Aur 

Buchho" 
(161un . ) 


Hamaru 
(Hjudi) 


202 -39 

( 1) 


B /65844 


" Vachan " (Hindi) 

( Colour) ( 35ınm .) 


3580 .95 

(14 ) 


Zars Films 
Organisation . 


Tejnath Zar , 
Executive Producer, 
M /s . Zaars Films 
Organisation , Shri 
Sound Studio , 
Dadar . 


74902 

- - With 
23-5 - 74 mark . 


trianglo 


Lindorsement : 
Orignal Length : 3594 -51 Mts . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 IX : Delete the following dialogue of the ChristianAyah : 

“ Apunke waste koi bhi size ka ho to chalega " (Sound ( nly ) (Sound ) 
2 XIV : Reduce thio fight in the templo reducing the shots in which ono man 

Strikcs anothor with the bell" . 
Length of deletions : 13 : 56Mts 

. . . . 13 . 560 
Actuul length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3580 . 95mts in 14 recls 


B / 72031 


" Cry Woll " (English ) 

( 16mm ) (UK ) 


645 . 56 

(6 ) 


National Education Michaol Trumal, 

& informition 
Filins Ltd , 
Nilional Houso . 
Tullach Road , 
Bombay- 39 . 


74963 

- - - 
24 -5 - 74 


P . E . 


B / 71966 


Do 


Goorgo H . Brown , 


" Go KartiGo" (Eng - 644 -35 

Jisli) ( 16mm ) 
( U . K . ) 


(6 ) 


U 
74964 

- 
24 -5 - 74 


P . C . 


- - 


- 


- . 


. . 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


PART II— SEC. 4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 

-- - - - - - - 


2239 
- - -- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - -- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 
- - 


-- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


— 


- - - 


B /72025 


" Bethune" ( English ) 

( 16min ) (Canada ) 


66200 


P . I . 


(2 ) 


Canadjan High Con - National Film Board 74965 
mission , Shanti of Canada , Govt , – 
Path , Chanakya of Canada . 

25 - 5 - 74 
puri, New Delhi- 20 


U 


B /71981 


22 . 86 


74966 


“ The Favourito Ono " 

(Colour ) ( 35mm .) 


Ms. Trio Films, Ms. Trio Films, 
Jyoti Studios , 

Bombay - 7, 
Kennedy Bridge , 
Bombay - 7. 


25 - 5 - 74 


( Valid for Fng 

Jish , Hirdi, 
Marathi, Guja 
rati, Bengali, 

Assameso , 

Kannada , 
Tamil, Mala 
yalam , Vor 
sions). 


U 


1 /72116 


281 -33 


S . A . Films, Inc. 


74967 


" Vision USA 25" 

(Luglish ) (Colour ) 
(16mni.) (USA ) 


( 1) 


Uniled Stallos In - 

formation Service 
Bomhay - 20 . 


- - 


P . L . 


25 - 5 -74 


B /71946 


332 - 06 

( 1 ) 


High Denis Hill 


Australian 

Comunission , 
New Delhi 


" Intonational 

Swiinmer 1972 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16ınm ) (Australia ) 


74968 

- - - 
25 -5 -74 


P . E . 


B /71950 


438 . 91 


“ A Deaf Child In the 

Family " ( Figlish ) 
( 161171 ) (New 
zealand ) 


Rov . Fr . Fred , 

Alphonso . 


Nowzoaland Nation - 

al, Film Unit. 


U 
74969 

- 
25 -5 -74 


P . E . 


CALCUTTA 


C / 8030 


I 


487 .68 


Bolield His Glory 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16mm ) USA . 


Dr Rev , D Mark 

Buntain 18 , Royd 
St Cal. 16 


Dave Wilkerson , 
USA 


P . L . 


73421 

- - - 
21-5 - 74 

U 
73422 


C / 8015 


Dorthla11 

(Colour) 
Canada 


240 .00 
( 1 ) 


( 16mm ) 


Ramkrislina Mission Pamola , USC of 

Institute of Cul - Canada 
ture , Calcutta 


23- 5 - 74 


ІІ 


C /8017 


Much Calt - Pond Ro - 

Ilowal (l riglish ) 
(Colour ) (161mm ) 
USA 


240 . 00 

(2 ) 


Wileringe Corpo - National Car Ren 73423 
rallion , Assam 

141 System Inc , – 
USA 

23 - 5 -74 


C / 8018 


U 
73424 


Dunlop Donovo 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(16mm )UK 


121 . 92 

(1 ) 


Dunlop Indja Ltd , Dunlop Limitod , U .K 
62A . Mirza Gha 
lib St, Cal-16 . 

MADRAS 


23- 5 -74 


M /8579 


228 .60 
(1 ) 


Shri S . R . Chandran , 
Madras 


" Tho Linits to " 

Growthi ( Telugu ) 
( 35mm ) B & W 
India 


Shris , R . Chandran , 
Mudras 


67555 


P . E . 


21- 5- 74 


21-53-74 


M /8595 


U 
67556 


With cuts . 


21 - 5 - 74 


Onne Onnu Kanne 3982 -50 Sudarsan Entor - Sudars 

Entor - 
Kannu ( Tamil) (15 ) prises, Madras 

priscs, Madras 
( 35nim ) B & W 

India 
Endorsement on certificate No 67556 -U dated 21st May 1974 — issuod to tho film Onne 
Onnu Kannc Kannu ( Tamil) 
Longth applicd 3987 : 36 Mts. 
Curs 
1. Reel 4 - Delete the dialogue of Akilandam 10 Parandhaman :-- " Ungal Kozhuppai 

Patthi Enakkuthanoy Theriyum Konjam .. . . .Mel Muchu Kizhmuchu 

Varukirathu . 
2 . Recl 14 - Delete the shot showing Alamu vomitting into the bowl. . . . 


Mts. 


3 .04 
1 . 82 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


4 . 86 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


-- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


2240 
- - - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III- SEC. 4 
- - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 


1 


Actual length of the film will be : 3982 -50 Mts. In 15 Reels . 


U 
67557 


M /8557 


" Thangapathakkam 

( Tamil ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) India , 


4762 - 19 

(18 ) 


Sivaji Productions . 

Madras, 


Sivaji Productions , 

Madras . 


22- 5 - 74 


M /8598 


67558 


Wiih cuts , 


22- 5 - 74 


Mis . 


Tulasi ( Tolugu ) 4462 - 29 Ramavijcta Films, Shri K . A . Prabhakar, 
(35mm .) B & W . ( 18 ) Madras . 

Madras, 
India , 
Endorsement on certificate No . 67558- U dated 22nd May 1974 -- issuod 10 the film 
"Tulasi ( Tolugu ) (35mm .) B & W . 

Length applied . 4551 . 91 Mts . 
Cuts. 
1. Reel 11 - ] n the rape scone, after Tulasi escapes ſioni Punyakoti at the door and 

comos to the chest of drawers whore a statuo fulls on floor , delete the rest 
of the soquionco including their prolonged struggle ncar tho bod , under 
the bed and Punyakoti pushing her on the bed and falling on top of her . 
(No objectica to retaining a brief shot of their struggle while standing , 

not exceocling two feet) (Rotained 9 14 ) . . . . . . . 
2 . Reel 11 - Delete the sentence of Punyakoti Oku chinna tablet, cka injection mapa 

ni chestundi (regarding killing his wifo ). . . . . . . 
3 . Reel 12 – Delete the dying cry of Dharmayya whon he is strangled to death , by 

Punyakoti. ( Sound only ). . . . . . . . . 
4 . Reel 18 – Reduce considerably Tulasi beating Punyakoti with iron chain . . . 

Total . . . 


27 -43 


5 .21 


10 .66 
43 - 30 


Voluntary deletion in Reol 18 : 46 . 32 Mts . 
Actual length : 4462 . 29 Mts. in 18 Reels . 


M /8578 


79 . 24 


U 
67559 


Shri E . Appa Rio, 

Madras, 


şhiri E . Appa Rao , 

Madris . 


Saukhyam Niche 

Maigan ( Tolugu ) 
(35mm ) B & W . 
India 


22-5 - 74 


M / 8575 


U 
67560 


With cut. 


22 -5 - 74 


Ek Rahasya (I-Iindi) 80 - 15 Sliri Ashok Jain , Sturi Ashok Jain 
(Colour) (35mm .) ( 1) 

Madras . 

Madres, 
India , 
Endorsement on cortificate No. 67560- U datod 22nd May 1974 - issued to tho film Ek 
Rahasya (Hindi) Colour ). 
Longth applied : 80 .15 Mts . 
Delete oloso-shot of African , eyos of an animal and head of a Chinese figuro . (Replaced 

with chandolier and shadow : 2 . 74 ) . 


2 .74 


Total 


: 


: 


: 


2 . 74 


Actual length will be: 80 .15 Mis. In one Reel. 


M / 8576 


Trailer of Naya Din 
Nai Raat (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 35mm .) 
India , 


111 - 24 

( 1 ) 


U 
67561 


Jamu Pictures , 
Madras. 


Shri N , P , Ali, 
Madras. 


23- 5 - 74 


M /8582 


With cuts. 


U 
" Vairam ( Tamil) 4363 -20 Vijaya & Sui Com - Vijaya & Suri Com - 67562 
(35mm ) B & W . (17 ) binos , Madras. 

bines , Madins . 
India . 

23 -5 -74 
Endorsement on certificate No . 67562-U duted 23rd May 1974 - issued to "Vairam (Tamil). 


Mis . 


Length applied . 4363 .20 Mts . 
Cuis . 
Reel 5 - Delete the shot of Jayakumari when she is addressed by Swami and Dorai, on 

the lino Unga Kittoy Irukkira Poottukku Sariyana Chavi Thodareonga . 
(Replaced approvod shot41 . 52 ). . 

Total , . . . 


1 . 52 


1 :52 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


PART III— SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - --- - - - - --- -- ----- 

- - 


2241 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


+ 


- - 


- - 


+ 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - -- - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


1 - Y - utt - 


w 


vi - - 


- 


- 


Actual length will be : 4363 ·20 Mis in 17 Reels . 


M /8592 


Sampathigay Sarol 

(Kannada ) (Colour ) 
( 35min .) India . 


67563 


4284 .00 

( 17 ) 


Padmashree En [ er - Padmashiroc Fn (01 - 

prisos , Bangaloro . prisos , Bangalore , 


24 - 5 - 74 

U 
67564 


M /8568 


Naan Avanilla , 

( Tamil) (35mm .) 
B & W ., India , 


4386 -37 

(16 ) 


Shri Narayani Films, 

Banculoro . 


Shri Narayani Films, 

Bangalore 


24-5174 


24 - 5 -74 

U 
67565 


M /8570 


Sri Krishna Panda - 

varu (Kannada ) 
(35mm ) B & W ., 
India , 


5097 - 16 

(19 ) 


Sri Sarada Produc - Shri R . Hanumanthal 
jons, Madras. 

Rio , Madras . 


25 - 5 - 74 


PARTICULAS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CONSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE IST JUNE 1974 , 
BOMBAY 

U 
B / 72050 “ VD – Attack Plan ,, 182 -88 (1) Natinal Educatjonal Walt Disney Produc- 74970 
(English ) & Informution Films tions. 

- P . E , 
(Colour) (16mm .) Ltd ., National House 

25 -5 - 74 
(USA .). 

Tulloch Road , 
Bombay- 39 . 

U 
B /71968 " Seventy Deadly Pills " 618 -74 Do , 

Dorick Willioms 74971 
( English ) (16 mm .) 

Productions Ltd . 

- P . E . 
(U .K .). 

27 - 5 -74 


U 


B / 72033 


" Scramble " (English ) 693 -42(6 ) Do . 

Michael Gorell Barnes 74972 
( Colour) ( 16 mm .) 

- P . E . 
(U . K .). 

27 - 5 - 74 

U 
Tra " Zamane So 84 . 08 (1 ) A . Majiidkhan , Maikod A . Majidkhan , Maikoda 74973 With triangle mark 
Poochho " ((Hindi) 

Movies, 308 - Famous Movies , Bombay- 41. - 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) Cine Bldg ., Maha . 

28 - 5 - 74 
laxmi, Bombay -11. 


B / 72068 


Endorsement. - - 
Original Length : 88 -39 m . 

Reduce considorably the impact of violencc - 4 . 31 mts . 

(Length retained ; 3 .05 Mts .) 

Longth of deletion : 4 . 31 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 84 .08 Mts, 


B /72108 


" Adhik Dhan Khush - 
Hal Kisan " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 


305 .00 ( 1) Mayank Bharati, E - 3 - Mayank Bharati 

Chand Housing So 
ciety, Juhu , Church 
Rd., Bombay- 54 . 


74974 

- 
28 - 5 - 74 


P . E . 


B /72044 


Nationnl Educational 
Media Inc . 


" Training Meinoran - 
dum " (English ) (Co 
lour) 

( 16 mm .). 
(USA ). 


U 
74975 

- 
28 -5 - 74 


121 .92 ( 1 ) National Education & 

Informaticn Films 
Ltd ., NationalHouse, 
Tulloch Road , Bom 
bay-39. 


P . E . 


B / 72045 


121 . 92 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


" Increasing 

tivity " 
(Colour ) 


Produc - 
(English ) 
(16 mm .) 


PE. 


U 
74976 

- - > 
28 - 5 - 74 

U 
74977 


B /71763 


121 - 92 ( 1) 


Garden State 


" Slips and Falls " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (USA ). 


P . E . 


28 - 5 - 74 

U 
74978 


B /71913 


630 -940 


“ Thc Christmas Tree " 
(English ) ( 16 mm .) 


Augusta Productions 


Ltd ., 


P . E . 


B / 72013 


121 92 ( 1) 


28 - 5 -74 

74979 


“ Discipline — A Mutter 
of Judgomçnt " (Eng .) 
( Col.) ( 16mm .) 


National Educational 
Media Inc. 


28 -5-74 


P.E . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2242 
- - - 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — SEC , 4 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


= 


1 / 72042 


110 . 95 ( 1) 


P . E . 


" Room Service " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm . ( USA ). 


National Bducation & National Educational 74980 
Information filnis htd ., Media Inc. 
National Ilouse , Tulloch 

28 - 5- 74 
Raud, Bombay - 39 . 


B / 72034 


73304(6 ) 


" Count Down To 
Danger " (English ) 
( Colour) (16mm .) 


B /72035 


710 - 79 (6 ) 


B / 71758 


“ The Sky - Bike " (Eng - 
Tigli ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (UK .) 
" Stout Hearts , Steady 
Handg " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USA ). 
" Trailer of Shatrunj 
Ke Mohro " (Hindi) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


300 - 53 
( 1) 


Do. 

A Fran Bundy Wallace 74981 P . E . 
Productions Ltd . 

28 - 5 -74 

U 
Do . 

Harold Orton , Eyelinc 74982 P . E . 
Films Ltd . 

28- 5 -74 
Unito Stato Infor - Ashley Hawken 

74983 Not P .T . 
mation Servico 4 
New Marino Linos , 

28 - 5 - 74 
Bombay-20. 
H . C . Shukla , M /s Ashok Chandra , M /s 74984 With triangle mark . 
Rujanigandha En- Suhel Films, Bombay-50 - - 
torprise, 7 -Surkashjta , 

29 - 5 -75 
Linking Road , Boni 
bay - 54 . 


B /72119 


84 . 42( 1) 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 89 .30 Mts. 
Delete the shot of Rajan Sethi looking at tho thing of the dancer indecorously and 

her rolling on top of him 
Length of deletions : 4 .88 m . 
Actual Length of the Film afier the aforesaill deletions will be : 84 -42 m . 


4 .88 


m 


B /72145 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1337 " ( 35 mm . ) 


133 · 20 (1) Filnis Division , Govt. Films Division , Bom 

of India , 24 -Peddar bay- 26 , 
Road , Bombay - 26 , 


U 
74985 ( Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Marathi, 
29 - 5 - 74 Gujarati, Assemese , 

Bengali, Oriya , 
Punjabi, Kashmiri 
and Urdu ver 
sions) . 


U 


B /72148 


" The Ugly Faco " 
(English ) ( 35 mm .) 


72 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


74986 


P . E . 


29 - 5 - 75 


U 


B / 72144 


217 - 32 ( 1) 


Do. 


and in 3 persone 


" Indian Nows Revicw 
No. 1337 " (Southern 
Edition ( 35 mm .) 


Do. 


217-341) 


Do . 


74987 ( Vulid for English 

Hindi, Tamil , 
29 - 5 - 74 Tolugu , Kannada 

Malayalam ver 
sions . 


U 


B / 72109 


81 18 ( 1) 


74988 


With triange mark , 


" Trailer of Froe Lovo " 
( Ilind !) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


Film Effects , 117 , Sarvjeet, Famous 

Fainous Cinc Bldg., Bldg ., Bombay-11 . 
Mahalaxini, Bom 
bay - 11 . 


30 - 5 -74 


B /72100 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 81 .99 m . 

Delete tho sentonce " Ig Kamaro men aano ke baad " said by Rita suggestively - 0 .81m . 
Length of deletions : 0 . 81 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 81 .18m . 

U 
" Ghatnu " (Hindi) 3381 -45 ( 13) Aradhang Films, 12- Aradhana Films, Bom - 74989 With triungo mark , 
(colour) 35mm . 

Geetika - 85-S . V . Road , bay- 54 . 
Santacruz , Bombay - 4 

30 - 5 -74 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 3418 - 33 m . 
Cut Reel 

No 
II (a ) Delete the kissing betwcen Prom Dutt and Padma . . 0 . 70 ni, 

(6 ) Reduce the viow of Prem caressing the less of Sonia under thọ 
tablo in the hotel 

1 . 67 m 
( Length retained : 1 : 52 in ) 
2. V Reduce the nudo figure of Sona in Silhouette . . . 0 . 22 m . 

(Length retained : 0 15 m .) 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
L - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - - - - - - -- -- - -- - . 


2243 


I 


3 


4 


33 .64 m , 


3. IX Reduce drastically the drem sequence in which Prem molests 

Sona also delete the close of blood drenched knife . 

(Length retained : 27 - 291n .) 
4. X Delete the portion whore too much of blood is seen pc ujing 

in comode after the muder of Prendutt 

(Length retained : 0 . 54 m . ) 
Length of cleletions : 36 .88 m . 
Actual length of the film afier the aforesaid deletions will be : 3381 .45 m . in 13 rools. 


0 .65 m . 


B /72122 


" A Breath 

(English ) 
( 35 mm .). 


Away " 
(Colour) 


74990 


30 .48 (1 ) M « Films, Jyoti Stu - M /S Films, Jyoti Stu - 

dio , Kennody Bridgo, dio , Kennedy Bridge, - 
Bombay - 7. 

Bombay -7 . 


30 - 5 -74 


B /72126 


U 
74991 


" Mahakti Hove Tazgi" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35 mm .). 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


Film Media , 47 - Laxmi Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur, 
Insurance Bldg ., Film Media , Bom - - 
Bombay - 1. 

bay- 1. 


30 - 5 - 74 


U 


B /72120 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


74992 


" A Favourite With 
Fvoryone " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm ). 


M /s . Broezo Adv. & 
Markoting Sagar Tal- 
kies Bldg ., Abid 
Road , Hycornbad . 


Indra Bijlani United 

Film Makers, 311 - 12 - 
Himalaya House 
Palton Road , Bom 
bay - 1. 


30 -5 - 74 


B / 72124 


" Show 
lish ) 
mm ). 


Baby" (Eng- 

(Colour ) ( 35 


74993 


30 -48( 1 ) Radio Advertising Radio Advertising 

Services Cecil Court Sorvice , Bombay-1. 
Lansedown Road , 
Bombay- 1. 


30 - 5 - 74 


B /72123 


30 . 48 (1) 


Do , 


U 
74994 


Baby Show " ( English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm ), 


Do. 


14994 


Do. 


30 - 5- 75 


B /72129 


30 - 48 ( 1) 


“ Aladdin In Goms 
Land " (English ) (Co 
lour) 35 mm ). 


Film Modia , 

Bombay - 1 


Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur , 
Film Media , Bombay - 1. 


74995 
- - - - 

30 - 5 - 74 


TT 


B /72138 


74996 


" North -West Link " 
JTU - 6 " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16 mm .) 
(AUSTRALIA ) 


P.E . 


227 .00 (1 ) Prndeshik Doorsan - Post Master Goneral, 

char, Prashikshan Australia , 
Kondra 4312 Mount, 
Industries Estato J. B . 
Nagar Post offico , 
B hay -59 . 


30 -5-74 


B / 72139 


U 
74997 


- P . E . 


" Design For Tonior - 
row ITU - 5 " ( Eng 
lish ) ( Colour) (16nım ) 
(Australia ) 


660 - 44 ( 2 ) Pradeshik Doorsanc- Post Master General 

har Preto, Shikshan Australia 
Kondra . 4312 Mount 
Industries Estate J. B . 
Nagar Post Office . 
Bombay- 59 . 


30 - 5 - 74 


B /71788 - 9 


U 
74998 


very 


" Today And Every 
Day" ( English snd 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35 mm ). (USSR ). 


520 . 00 ( 2) USSR Consulate Genc- Centrul Documentusy 

ral, 42 -Napoan : cu Film Studio 
Road, Bombay-6 . 


30 -5 -74 


B /71783 


1428 -00 (5 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


74999 


30 -5 - 74 


" Monuments of Fri- 
endship " (English ) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 

(USSR ). 
" Day Light Robbery " 
( English ) ( 16mm ). 


H /71965 


John Devis . 


638 - 56 (6 ) National Education 

and Information Films 
Lid . 


75000 

- - P . E . 
30 - 5 -74 


B /72129 


U 
75101 


" Face Off " (Fnglish ) 2939 - 19 (12) Film Finance Corpo . Canadian Film Deve 
(Colour) (35 nim ). 

ration , 91-Walke lopment Corporation , 
( Canada ). 

shwar Road, Bombay-6 


31-5 - 74 


B /72152 


75102 Not P . E . 


" Ravi s Siter 2 -India " 
(No Commentury 
Music Only ) ( 35m ). 


50 . 00 (1 ) Films Division , Govt. Filnis Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road, Bombay - 26 . 


31 - 5 - 74 


- - 


14 - 369G1/75 


2244 
- = = 


2244 ___ THE GAZETTE OF INDI 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — SEC . 4 
== = = = . - - - - - - = - - - - 

- - - - 

— = = 


= 


1 


- 1 - 


- - - + 


- 


+ 


- 


- 


B /72155 


Not P . L., 


" Gou India " (No 
Commentary ) Music 
Only ) ( 35 min .) 


85 . 00 ( 1) Films Division, Govt. Films Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


75103 
- 
31- 5 -74 


B /72151 


158 .00 (1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


75104 


Not P . E . 


“ Ravis Sitar 1 -India " 
(No Commentary 
Music Only ) (35 mm ) 


31 -5 -74 

U 
75105 


B /72148 


52 - 00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Not P . E . 


“ Ellora -Incli " (No 
Commentary Music 
(Only) ( 35 mm .) 


31-5 - 74 

U 
75106 Not P . E . 


B /72134 


57 . 00 ( 1) 


Do. 


“ Drums- India " (No 
Commontary ) Music 
Only ) (35 mm .) 


31- 5 -74 

U 
75107 


B /71832-3 


" Around The Soviet 

Union No. 98 " (Ka 
nnada and Telugu ) 
(Colour) (USSR ). 


109 .00 ( 1) U .S . S .R . Congulate Centrul Documentary 

General, 42 -Napen Film Studio 
San Road , Bombay - 6 . 


31 - 5 - 74 


B /71834 -8 


182 .00 ( 2 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


15108 (Valid 


for Mara 


" Around The Soviet 
Uniot No. 100 - 101" 
( 16mm .) (Colour) 
(USSR ). 


75108 (Valid for Mara 

thi, Guj., Punjabi, 
31 - 5 - 74 Bengali, & Tolugu 

Versions .) 


U 


B /75109 


111 .00 (1) 


Do . 


Do. 


75109 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No . 92" (Hindi) 
(Colour) (16 ini .) 
(USSR ). 


31 - 5 - 74 


10472037 


B / 72037 


659 .890 


National Education & 
Information Films 


" On tho Run ” (Eng- 
lish ) ( 16 mm .) 


Derick Williams Pro - 

ductions Ltd , 


75110 


P . E . 


Ltd ., 


Ltd. 


31-5-74 


B /72032 


P .E . 


U 
" Lion Hart" (Eng. 657 .45 (6 ) 

Do , 

Michael Forlong Prc- 75111 
11slı ) (Colour) (16 mm .) 

ductions Ltd . 

31 -5 - 74 

U 
" Asi Hi Saturyachi 3654 - 23 (13 ) Shripad Chitralaya , D . C . Shah , 45 /1 /5 75112 
Tarha " (Marathi) 

45 -11 New Market New Market, Bom - - - - - 
(35mm .) Lalbaug, Bombay-12 . bay- 12 , 

1 - 6 -74 


B /72110 


With tringle Moik . 


Endorsement - 
Originul Length : 3664 . 29 m , 
Cut Reel 

No . 
1 . XII Reduce considerably hard punches exchanged between Laxman 

Patil and henchman of Bali Patil and tho torture of Laxman 
Patil by spoar beforo ho is murdered . . . . 

(Length retuinod - 13 .41 m .) 
Length of deletions: 10 .06 m . 
Actual Length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3654 . 23 m . In 13 reels 


. 


10 .06 m . 


U 
75113 With Trienglc auk 


B /72058 


1 - 6 - 74 


" Pap Aur Punya " 4393 . 08 ( 17) Mughin Entorprise , Shyamsunder Shivdasani, 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 

7-Anupama, 1412 M /s. Murghan Enter 
(35 mm ) 

Khar, Bombay -52. prise, Bombay-52 . 
Endorsement : 

Original Length : 4441 - 54 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 


8 . 23 m . 


Reduce drastically the scene of Balbir Singh killing his brother 
and son in a gas chambor , keeping only a suggestion by using 
unobjoctionable Shots . . . . . . 
(Length retainel : 9 . 45 in . 

. 
Reduce the fight between polico and the smugglers at the rail 
way crossing 

. . . . . . 
(Length retained : 34 , 14 mi 


IX 


3 - 35 m . 


- 


- - - - 


3 


6 


3 .66 m . 


PART III — SEC, 47 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2245 

- - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
5 

- . 
Reduce the whipping of Jwala by Jugniby deleting hard hitting 
Shots 
(Longth retained : 20 -73 m . ) 
Delete all tho shots of Subhadra in bedroom where she is with 
baro backag suggested . . . . . . . 

14 .63 m . 
5. XI 

In the light in the " Jantar Mantar" between smugglors and 
Policc , reduce the fight by deleting hardhitting shots and 
reduco the impact of a police man getting killed during his 
struggle with Jwala by deleting the shot of tho policeman lying 
down and his dead body . 

3 .66 m . 
(Longth retained : 50 -59 m .) 
XIV Reduce whipping of Sister Margaret by Halbig Singh 

0 .91 m . 
(Length retained : 2 -44 m .) 
7 . XV Reduce the fight in the snuggler s den . . . . . 2 .44 ni. 

(Length rotainod : 50 .29 m .) 
8 . XVI In the last fight reduce the impact of violence by deleting shots 
of hard hitting punchos , chops and killings , 

11 . 58 m . 
(Length retained : 111 - 25 m . ) 
Length of deletions : 48 .46 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4393 08m . 
in 17 reels. 

U 
B /71902 " Probing The Fron - 410 .00 (1 ) Hoochst Pharmaceu - Farbwerke Hoechst 75114 Not P . E . 
liers of Life " (Eng 

ticals Ltd ., Roman A .G . 
lish ) (Colour) (16 House , Bombay 20 . 

1- 6 - 74 
mm .) ( W . G .) 


U 


B /72132 


75115 


P . E . 


" Modern Air Field 609 -60 ( 2 ) Director, National United Motion Pic 
Payemonts " (English ) 

Buildings Organisa - lures (London ) . 
(Colour)(16 mm ).UK , 

tion , New Delhii. 


1 -6 - 74 
U 
75116 


B / 72135 


74 .07 (1) 


Do. 


Building 
Station , 


Research 


" Pressod Concrete Pa - 
nels " ( English ) (Co 
lour) (16 mm .) ( U . K .) 


P . E . 


B /72134 


224 33( 1) 


1 -6 - 74 
U 
75117 


Clift Parris. 


Save 


" Streets Ahead " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (U .K .) 


Do. 


Clit Paris. 


P . E . 


the 


22-310) 


$ 117 Pe. 


1 -6 - 74 


U 


B /72131 


121 . 92 (1 ) 


75118 


P . E . 


" Computer -Aided Buil- 
ding Design " (Eng.) 
(16 mm .) ( U . K .). 


William Newman , Jin 
perial. 


1 -6 -74 


U 


B / 72133 


224 . 33 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Building 


75119 P . E . 


" Brick Laying to duy 
and Tomorrow " (Eng ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 


Research 
Station . 


- 


1 -6 -74 
U 
75120 


B /72156 


" FROM LIONS WITH 
LOVE " (English ) 
(Colour) (16mm .). 


404 -00 ( 1) R . K . Colour Studio , R . K . Colour Studio , 

Colaba Bombay - 5 . Colour Bombay -5 . 


1 - 6 - 74 


B / 71881 


75121 P . E , with triangle 

- mark . 
1 - 6 - 74 


" Based On Trust" 469 .00 (2) Films Division , Govt. Hjlms Division , Govt. 
(English ) (35 mm ) 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - 

Road, Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay -26 . 
Endorsenient: 
Original Length : 542 .00 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 1 Delete the shots in which a cabaret dancer mukos indecorous 

gesturos ás also close views of the dancor who is sacantily clud . 

Voluntary deletions in two rcels 
Length of deletions : 23 -77 m . 
Voluntary deletions : 49 .23 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 469 .00m , in 2 reels. 


23 . 77 m . 
49. 23 m . 


U 


B / 71774 


3327 With triangle inark , 


" Call Girl" (Hindi) 3332 - 43 (14 ) Mukesh Movies, 3 . Ved Khunn, 3 -Purijat, 
(Colour) (35mm ) 

Parijat 19 -Marin 95 -Marine Drive , - 
Drive, Bombay- 2. Bombay- 2 . 


28 -5 - 74 


2246 
-- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III — Sec. 4 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - --- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - --- - 

2 


- - 


. 


* 


- 


- LS 


- - - 

- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3352 -54 m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1. 


I 


26 - 82 m . 


Delete the indecorous close-ups of girls s anatomyappealing as 
title background 
( Replaced with approved shots : 26 -82 in .) 
Delete Ramesh kissing Usha nt tho end of the scene when he is 
about to seduce hor 
Delete indocorous close ups and shots of Kikini clad cabaret 
dancer 
(Replaced with approved shot) - 3 .65 m . ) 


2 . 44 m . 


3 .65 m . 


XI In the lash back scene of rape on Kamini by Sonachand , delete 

theshot of Sonachand caressing Kamini s neck with his lips , 2 . 74 m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 .30 m .) 
Delete the underlinod word from the dialoguo of Babu addrçssed 
to kamini " Sothjine Tumko Pavitra kur diya hai" with reference 
to Kamini having been raped by Sona — ( Sound ) 

(Roplaced with approved words ) 
6 . XII Delete the windorlined word from Banu s dialogue addressed to 

Sondchand whilo referring to procurement of a now girl “ Maal 
taza hui." ( Sound ). 

(Replaced with approved words ). 
XIV Delete the undorlined word from Banu s dialogue addi essed to 

Ain2r : " Sharir to bada lamba hai" lekin dam nahin haj (Sound ) 

(Replaced with approved words). 
IX Delete the words “ Khila Khila ghula ghula mehka angang le lo " 
from tho song Sung by Tina 

15 . 23 m . 
(Deleted the picturisation also ). 
Length of deletions : 50 -88 in . 
Length of the replacement: 30 .77 m , 
Actual length ofthe film after the aforesald deletion und replacenient will be : 3332 -43 m . in 14 reels 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Diamond (Hindi) ( 35 30 .48 ( 1 ) Şachana Film Distri- Sadhana Film Distri 73425 
mm ) ( India ) . 

butors 3, Saklat Placo butors. 
Calcutta - 13 . 

27 - 5 -74 


C /8032 


C /8031 


Madham 
(35 mm ) 


289 .56 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


U 
73426 


Gandhar - 

(Bengali ) 
( India ). 


Do. 


13426 


27 - 5 -74 


C /8034 


915 . 00 (3 ) Mayur Films, Assam , 


Sandhan (Assamosc ) 
( 35 mm ). (India ). 


Mayur Films, Assam 


73427 


P . E . 


27 - 5 - 74 


C / 8035 


U 
73428 


P . E . 


Orissa : Faith And 
The Festive Wheel 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm ) (India ). 


592 . 83(2 ) Sailon Dutt Procluc- Saile Dult Productions 

tions 7 , Indian Miror 
St. Cal- 13. 


27 -5 - 74 


U 
73429 


C / 8040 


Paschim Banga Sar - 
karer Sangbad Chitra 
No. 57 (Bengali) (35 
mm ), (India ). 


374 . 90 ( 2 ) Sircar Productions 38 / Dept. of Information 
1 . Elgin Road , Cal- 20 . & Public Relations 

Govt . of West 
Bengal, Calcutta . 


28 -5 -74 


MADRAS 


M /8583 


Rao , 


67566 With Cuts. 


“ Vijaya Ramudu 3880 - 40( 16 ) Sri Vijaya Durga Pic - Srhi E . Appa 
(Telugu ) ( 35 ) min .) 

tures , Madrss . 

Madras, 
( B & W ) ( India ) 


27 -5 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


PART III - SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- - - -- - -- - - - - - --- - - - - --- - -- - -- - - 

-= = = - - - - - - - - - - - - 


2247 
- - - 


- 


- 


Mis. 


Endorsement on cert. No . 67566 - U dt. 27th May 1974 - issued to the film Vijaya Ramudu ( Telugu ) 35 inin . B & W . 
Length applied : 3886 . 78 Mts . 
Culs Rucl 

Delete the mother telling her daughter " Velli nee ishtam vachi 
nattalla vadi chole pani cheyinchuko " . . . . . 

1 .52 
Delete the girl s sentence to the youth Mil ayya neelanti 
kandalu tirigina vadiko ivvalentunnuudu " , 

2 .74 
Delete Kampa s sentence toghr girl “ Prema veesulu cheppa 
koodadu , chesi choopinchal. " 

1 . 52 
From tho song picturisation , delete the following : - (a ) Vijay ! 
embracing her inaid when the bicasts of the two are scon tou 
ching near thu song lina " Chiru guli giliginali Chesum lo " 
(Replaced with cloucls : 2 :43) 

2 -43 
(b ) Vijaya cmbracing the tree when the tree trunk is prominently 
geen between her busts against the line podalo poovule virisc 
rela " 

0 - 30 
(Replaced with trecs : 0 . 30 ). 
6 From the song picturisation , lelete the following : - 


1 : 21 


( a ) Tho closc - range shot of Vijaya s pointcil brezsts prominently 

see touching Ramu against the words " Cheyi kulapali" 

(first versc ) (Replaced with hands : 1 . 21 ) . , . 
(b ) Ramu bending over the breasts of Vijaya who is bending on 

her back , on the lino " Goronkil rammanagane ( repetition ) . 
(Replaced with Gorunka and parrot : 1 - 97 ) , 


1 .97 


14 


Delete tho opening shot of tho recl when Kamp is seen bending 
over Chitti in close proxinity on cot . (No objection to the shot 
after his risiny ) 


0 .60) 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


12 - 29 


Actual length will be: 3880 -40 Mts. In 16 Reels. 


M /8977 


Bantrothu Bharya 4561 62 ( 18 ) Geetha Art Productions, Gcotha Art Productions 67567 With Cuts . 
( Telugu ) (35 mm . ) 

Meiras. 

Maras. 
B & W ( (India ) 

27-5 -74 
Endorsement on cort. No . 67567 -U d . 27th May 1974 -- issued to the film Bantrothu Bharya ( Tulugu ). 

Longth applied : 4736 . 28 Mts . 
Culs . Reel 

Mts. 
7 Delete satyam s sentence to Shanthi ‘Marco anta loossan .ico 0 .60 
10 Delete the sentence of Shunti " Oka Bantrothu MuniManamodu " 
rcferring to Nohru " 

5 . 17 
17 Delese Harischandran Rally telling his men " Nolitha chepithe 
votlu vesa kalam kuadidi - notiatone cheppall" . . 

2 . 13 


19 Delete the District Collector helding the currency notes and 

handing them over to Ramachandra Rao, without taking any 
action 


6 . 09 


TOTAL ÇUTS 


, 


13 . 99 


Voluntary deletions in Reel Nos. 1 , 8 , 10 ; 160 .67 metres. 

Actual length of the film after the cuts and voluntary deletions will be: 4561 •62 metres in 18 recls. 


M /8599 


" Manushulu Mathi 3958 - 14 ( 16 ) Chitranjali Pictures, Chitranjali Pictures, 67568 With Cuts . 
Bommalu " ( Telugu ) 

Madrus. 

Mudras. 
(35 mm .) Black and 

27- 5 - 74 
White (India ). 
Endorsement on Cert. 67568-U dated 27th May 1974 - issued to film Manushulu -Mathi Bomnalu (Telugu ). 

Length applied : 3993 - 18 Motres. 
Cuts. Reel 

Melres. 
From the picturisation of the song bigioning with the words 

" Pagadalu pyna posadainma " , delete the followings : 
$ (a ) Rapi lifting her skirt up which goes completely upwards 

revealing her frontal portion on BGM beforo tha song 
begins. ( replaced with insertion of audience - 0 . 91 metres , 0 . 91 


2248 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [ PART III - Sec . 4 
- -- - - - - - - - - = - = - . 

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = - - - = = 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2 


(b ) Rani s action of lifting her skirt up facing boy. (replaced 

with insertion of boy s laugh - - 0 - 30 ) . 


Metres 
0 . 30 


( c ) Rani bending on her back and giving indecent hip movc 

mcnts near thç line Sande velaku rammannado" (Repla 
cecl with insertion of audience reaction ) (0 . 91 metres ) 


0 .91 


(d ) Rani squatting with the action of her hands at her front. 

(Replaced with insertion of audience reaction - 0 . 91 metres) 


0 .91 


(e ) Hor skirt going up revelaing her lower portion , towards the 

end of the end of the songs . . . . 


1 . 52 


From the picturisation of the song beginning with the words 
" Orori Mallanna " , dolctc Rani beating her brcasts by her 
hands at tho end of Pallabi, before the first charanam begins. 
( Replacoct with boys play-- 1 . 82 metres) . . . . 


1 .82 


Delete the sequence of school boys bringing two donkeys into 
tho living room of the warden , one donkey disturbing the war 
don and another conkey repeatedly pulling off the blanket 
from the server s baro body, till the warden gets up and 
shouts 

TOTAL CUTS 


33 .52 


39 .89 


Actual length of the films after cuts and replacements will be : 3958 - 14 merres in 16 reels. 


U 


M / 8611 


305 - 00 (1) 


67569 


Tamil Nadu Govt. 
Regional News Bul 
lettin No. 117 ( Tamil) 
( 35 mm ) ( B & W ) 
(India .) 


The Directorato of The Directorate of 
Information and Information and - 
Public Relations , Public Relations, 
Madras. 

Madra . . 


30 -5 - 74 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

2249 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - -- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = 


3 


4 


Particulars of Films certified or refused by the Central Board of film censors during the week ending the 8th June 1974 

BOMBAY. 

U 
“ Prime Minister of 516 .00( 2 ) Films Division, Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75122 Not P . E . 
Sri Lanka Visits India " 

of India 24 -Peddar of lhdis, 24- Peddar - 
(English ) (35mm .) 

Road, Bombay- 26 . Road , Boinbily - 26 . 4 - 6 - 74 


B / 72159 


U 


/72150 


75123 


Not P . E , 


" Raga - 2 -India " (NO 

Commentary Music 
only ) (Docummond 
ry ) (35min .) 


78 .00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar 
Road, Bonibay- 26 . Road , Bombay -26 , 


4 -6 - 74 


B / 72153 


80 .00( 1) 


Do . 


Do, 


U 
75124 Not P , E , 


" Raga - [- India " (No 
Commntary Music 
only ) (Docummen 
tary) (35mm ) 


4 -6 - 74 


A /72036 


75125 


P . E . 


" Hide and Seek " 
(English ) (Col.) ( 16mm ) 
( U . K .) 


694 .640) National Education & Michael Gorell Barnes . 

Information Films 
Ltd ., National House , 
Tullach Road , Bom 
bay - 1. 


4 - 6 - 74 


B / 72111 


30 .48(1) 


" Rich And Goldon " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35mm ) (Advt.) 


Durga Khote Produc- Durga Khote Produc- 
tions, Indira House, tions , Bombay- 1 . 
First floor opp . 
G . P . O ., Bombay- 1 


U 
75126 


4 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72141 


“ A Winning Smoko" 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( Advt .) (35mm .) 


30 .48 (1 ) M /s Golden Tobaco , Miss Indira 
Vile Parle, Bombay- 56 . United Film 

Bombay - 1. 


Bijlani 75127 
Makers, – 

4 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72113 


" Lok Nrutya " )Guj 
arati) (Colour) (Advt.) 
(35mm .) 


15 . 24 ( 1) Sohrab , Boga M / Sohrab Boga , M /s Ni 75128 

Nishan motion Pictures , shan Motion Pictures . — 
Vasant Vilar 8 - Car 

4 -6 - 74 
michael Road , 
Bombay - 26. 

U 
D ) . 

75129 


B/72012 


B /72112 


Nrutyollas” 


(Ma- 


15 -24(1) 


D ). 


Do . 


Do . 


95129 


rathi) (Colour ) (Advt.) 
(35mm . ) 


4 - 6 - 74 

U 
75130 


B / 72208 


" Indian News Ro- 
view No . 1338 " (News 
Reel) (35ınm ) 


174 . 95 ( 1 ) Filing Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay-26 . 


26 


5-6- 74 


( Valid for English , 

Tamil, Hindi, 
Tolugu , Kannada 
Malayalam , AS 
sumeso, Oriya Ben 
gali, Punjabi, Ka 
shmiri & Urlu ver 
sions.) 


B /72207 


" Indian News Re 

viow No, 1338 " (Wes 
tern Edition ) ( 35mm ) 


U 
246 .88( 1) Do . 

Do. 

75131 (Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi Ma 
5 -6 - 74 sathi, Gujarati & 

Sindi Vorsions ). 
U 

75132 
30 .48 (1) Radio Adyt , Services , Radio Adyt. Services. - - - - ( Valid fou llindi, 
Cecil Court Langedo 

5 - 6 - 74 Tamil, Kannada , 
ome Roud , Bombay- l. 

& Telugu Ver 
sions.) 


B /72188- 91 " Aur Bhi Zyada ” (Col 

our) ( Advt.) (35mm ) 


30 . 48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do , 


B /72184- 87 " Aanek Anek Beshi" 

(Colour) (Advt.) (35 
mm ) 


75133 (Valid for Begn 

- gali , Hindi, Ma 
5 -6 - 74 rathi, & Gujarati 

versions.) 


B / 72115 


75134 


P . E . 


" Science Report 151 
B " (English ) (16mm ) 
(USA ) 


149 . 96 ( 1) United States Infor - Robert Forster . 

mation Service 4 
Now Marine Linos , 
Bombay- 20 . 


5 -6 - 74 


-- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


2250 


TUT GAZETTE OT INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART 1]I — SEC. 4 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - . 


- - - - 


- 


— 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


U 


B /72118 


" Crompton Brocze 
(English ) (Colour) 
(Advt.) ( 35nun .) 


75135 
30 . 48 ( 1 ) Maja Mediums, 927 Maja Mediums. Bom - - 
Tardeo - Air Condi- bay- 34 . 

5 -6 -74 
tioned Market, Tar 
de, Bombay -34 . 


1 / 72114 


B / 72215 


B / 72128 


" Science Report 151 - 147 . 21(1 ) United Statos Infor . Robert Foster . 

75136 P . E . 
( A ” (English ) ( 161m ) 

mation Sorvice , New 
(USA ) Marines Linos , Bom 

5 - 6 - 74 
buy- 20 . 

U 
" Trailer of Huwas " 114 .80 ( I) Sawan Kumar, Bombay Sawan , Kumar. 

75137 With triangle mark 
(Hindi) (Colour ) ( 35 
inm ). 

7 - 6 . 74 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 117 .65 cm . 

Delete front view of Rekha s baro thighs during dunce. - 2 -85m . 
Acil length of the film after the aforesaid deletionswill bo .- - 114 - 80 m . 

Shyain Sunder Shiv 
" Trailor of Pap A :Ir 88 .90 (1) dayani, 7 -Anuani , Shyam Sunder Shivda - 75138 With triangle mark 
Puriya " (Hindi) (Col 

14th Road , Khar , sani, 7-Anupama , 14th -- - - - 
our ) ( 35mm .) 

Bombay - 52 . 

Road Bombay -52. 7 - 6 - 74 
Endorseinent : 
Original Length : 89 .92 m . 

Delete the shot of the child being thrown from the top of a building or else show the child being 
caught whilc fulling as shown in the main film . - 1 .83m . 

Actua ) longth of the film after the aforogaid deletion will be - 88 -09 m . 
ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULR 34 : 
B / 72200 -06 
Film - " No Other Choice " ( English ) (Colour) 
U -Cert, No . 74847 of 27 - 4 - 74 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi, Tamil, Gujarathi, Malayalam , Kannada . Bengall and 
Tolugu vresinos of the film in colour. The Longth of the film remains uncha god. This certificate 

Was endorsed on 5th June, 1974 
B / 72160 
Film ; “ Bandits " (Engish )(Colour ) 
U -Cert No. 74177 of 9 - 1 - 74 

This certificate is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. The length of the film remains 
unchangod . 

This cortificate was ondorsed on 5th Juno, 1974 
B /71417 
Film : " Our Striking Force " ( English ) 
U -Cort. No. 74631 of 22- 3 -74 . 

Deleted various shots : 55 - 56 m . Actual length of the film actor the aforogaid deletions will bo : 
16344m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 5th June, 1974 . 
B /72099 
Film : “ A Few Moro Questions " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 74922 of 14 - 5 -74 . 

Currections · Tho lengih of tho film on the face of the certificate may be read as 333 -00m . instead 

of 398 . 15 mts. 

This cortiſicato was oncorsed on 5th June, 1974 . 
B / 28 / 7337 
Film : " Sudamyache Poho " , 
U -Cort. No . 59827 of 18 -6 - 70 

The titlo of the film on the face of the cortificato may be road as " Sudamyacho Pohe allas Shri 
Krishna Sudami" instead of " Sucamacho Pohe" this certificate was endorsed on 5th June , 1974 . 

WEEK ENDING 8TH JUNE , 1974 


C /8036 


73430 


Prashad Award Win 
ning Function ( Bon 
E:111) (35mm ) (Indiu ). 


95 - 45 ( 1) Prashad Press & Pub - Prashad Prose & Pub 

blication 42, Indian l[cation 
Mirror St, Cal-13 , 


3 -6 -74 


C /8037 


Kanalata (Oriya ) (35 4 ,390 .03 (16 ) 
mm ) (ndia . 


Konark Films Private Ghanashyam Mohapatra . 73431 

Ltd . Bidan Budi, Cu 
ttack - 9 , 

3 -6 - 74 


— 


— 


- - - 


- 


- 


G 


PART III - SEC , 410E GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMIPER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 2251 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- = - 1 - . 
(5) 


M -8600 


197 .50 ( 1) 


67570 P .L , 


Part I The Diode 
Characterstc (English ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
Holand , 


Principul, College of Phillips vf Holland , Ho - 
Engineering, Gundy. land . 
Madras. 


3 -6 - 74 


M /8601 


Do . 


M /8581 


P.11 , III Tho Trang- 208 47( 1 ) 

Do . 

67571 P . H . 
sistor Status of Op 
poration , (English ) 

3 -6 - 74 
(Colour ) ( 16mm ) 
Holland , 

U 
"Bangaaru Kalalu 

4508 29 ( 16 ) Jayashroc Combinos , Annapurna Pictures 67572 With Cuis . 
( Tolugu ) (Colour) 

Madras, 

(P ) Ltd , Madras . 
( 35mm ) (India , 

4 -6 -74 
Endorsemont on cert. 67572 -U dt. 4th June 1974 - isglied to tho ſilnı Banguaru Kalalu ( Telugu ). 

Length applied . 4514 .67 Mts. 
Cuts 

Mis . 
1. Reel 3 - Delete Chidambaram taking out the liquour bottlo beneath themini 

pedestal on which the idol of a deity is placed . (Replaced with 
Chidambaramgoes to almirah and takos out the liquor bottle). 
4 .86 Mts. . . . 

4 . 86 
. . 

. . 
2. Reel 6 - Delete Venu s dialogue " Devalayallo an therthaniki badulu yeo 
teertham isto " referring to liquor 

. 2 - 74 
3. Reel 11 – Delete the icference to " Kerala nurse " from the dialogue of Sc 
shagiri. . . . . . . . 

3 .64 
. . . 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


11 . 24 


M / 8584 


Actual longth will bo 4508 . 29 Mts . jp 16 Reels. 

U 
Avalukku Nihar Av - 4251 .05( 16 ) Sri Ravi Priya Films, Sri B . Jayaraman , 67573 With cuts . 
ale ( Tamil) (3 mm ) 

Madras . 

Madras. 
( B & W ) (India ) 

4 - 6 - 74 
Edndorsement onf cort. No. 67573- Ų dt. 4th Juno 1974 — issued 10 the film Avalukku Nihar Avale ( Tamil). 

Longth applied . 4274 -81 Mts. 
Cuts 

Mts. 
1. Reel 5 , 8 & 11 - Delete the words " Kuşapayal, Kugatthi, Mann Midhi 

kkira Kazhudhai, wherever it oocurs in all rools in tho 
film . . . . 

8 -52 
2 . Reel 13 - - Delete insort shots of brothel (superimposed in the song ) (Re 

placod with close shots of Abhirami. 8 : 28 Mis .) . 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 74 


Voluntary deletions in Reel 3. 15 -25 Mts. 


Actual length will be 4251 .05 Mts . in 16 Reels. 


M /8596 


‘Oroy Saatchi ( Tamil) 
( 35mm ) (B & W ) (In 


3809 - 70 ( 14) Dovi Creations, Madras Devi Croations , Madrag. 


U 
67574 With cuts. 


dia ) 


5 - 6 - 74 


Endorsement on cert . No. 67574- U dt. 5th June 1974 - isşuod to the film Oroy Saatchi (Tamil) 

Length applied . 3816 :09 Mts. 
Cuts 

Mts. 
1 . Reel 5 - Reducemolestation sequence to a flash . Delete Selvam s action 
of toaring Kanchana s blouse . 

6 :39 
2 . Reel 0 - Delele tho namo Palayamkottai, with roference to prison . (Ro 

placed with approved dialogue-sound only ) . . . . 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


6 : 39 


Actua ) length will be 3809. 70 Mts , in 14 Reels . 


M /8602 


U 
67575 


“Potaslı for Top Dro 
ssing ( Tainil) (Col 
our) (35mm ) ( India ), 


152 . 40 (1 ) Krishnagwany Associatos Krishnaswamy Asso 
( P ) L . Madras, ciattes (P ) Ltd . Mad - - 

ras , 


7 - 6 - 74 


15 — 369GI/75 


2252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III / SEC. A 
- = - = = - - = - = - - = 
(5) 

( 7 ) 


(2 ) 


U 
67576 


M / 8608 


Kaun Ho Tum 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 35 
nim ) ( India ). 


80 -76 (1) Shri Ashok Jain , Mad - Shri Ashok Jain , Mad - 
ras. 

rus, 


7 -6 - 74 

U 
67577 


M /8609 


801 061) 


Do. 


Do, 


Ek Rahasya Ek Ta 
sali (Hindi) (Col 
our ) (3 inm .) India , 


7 - 6 - 74 

U 
67578 


M /8610 


29 . 71 ( 1) 


Sound & Sight, Madras Sound & Sight, Modras, 


A Beautiful Tradi. 
tion (Hindi) (Col 
our) ( 35mm ) (India ) 


7 -6 - 74 


11 


Mts . 


M /8751 " Moham " (Maluya - 3502 - 84 ( 14 ) Aar Boo Produns ., Shri M .B . Pisharody, 3303 A With cuits , 
lam ) ( 35mm . ) 

Bangaloro , 

Bangalore . 
(B & W ) ( India ) 

7-6 -74 · 
Endorsement on Cert. No 3303 -A dt. 7111 June 1974 - issued to the film Moham (Malayalam . 35mm , B & W 

Length applied , 3350 . 00 Mts. 
Cuts 
1. Reel 2-- Delete shot (closo ) of Shanti s front and Vasu s back -action of 
Kissing . . . 

7 . 30 
2 . Reel 4 - Delete (a ) the scene in which Bhasker is givon massage by his lady 
socretary and later mounts on him . The ontire scone. 

19 : 34 
(6 ) Bhasker and Uma in Bed . . . . . . 
3 . Reel 5 - Delete cabaret duncors bottom shown in closo -shot. (b ) Insert 
of a man ifting his dhoty and moving into bathroom 

8 .82 
4 . Reel 7 - Reduce (a) shot of Bhaskar and Shanta jp bod , to a flash . . 2 .13 
(h ) Delete Shanta s closo -shot in bod . 

. . 3 - 04 
(c) Delete Lawyers dialogue is which he says to Shanta Endoy . . . 
Thokku Kaanandoy - Aktheykku Pobam " . . 

5 . 17 


1 . 34 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


47 . 16 


TOTAL 

. . 
Actual longth will be 3502 - 84 Mts. in 14 Rools . 


B /72192 


75139 


" Many Many More " 
(English & Hindi) 
(Colour ) 35 mm . (Advt.) 


30 -48( 1) Radio Advertising Sor- Radio Advortising servi- 

vices, Cecil Court cos . 
Ladown Road , Bom 
bay - 1 , 


10 -6 -74 


kurs 


B /721125 


30 .48 (1 ) 


75140 


5140 


" Alladin Aur Rang 
Birange Goms" (Hin 
di) (Col. (35mm .) 
(Advt. ) 


Film Media , 47- Mr. Jyoti G , Thakur, 
Laxmi Insuranco B1- Modia , 
dg., Sir P , M . Rond , 
Bombay -1 , 


10 -6 -74 


U 


B /72213 


75141 


P . F . 


“ Water Water Every 
where" (English ) 
(Col.) ( 161m .) 


60 -96 (1 ) National Fducation & National Film Board 

Information Films of Canada . 
Ltd ., Nation Ilouso , 

B b - 1 . 


10 - 6 - 74 


U 


ucture 


B /72212 


166-1201) 


Do, 


“ Percoption -Structure 166 . 12 ( 1) 
Or Flow " (English ) 
(Colour) (16nın .) ( Canada) 


Do. 


75142 


P . E . 


DO. 


10 - 6 - 74 

U 
75143 


B /72211 


157 -88 (1) 


Do. 


Smokor s Lungs" ( En - 

glish ) (Col.) (16mm ) 
mm ) (Canada). 


P . E . 


10 -6 - 74 
U 
75144 


B /72210 


223 - 12 ( 1) 


Do. 


“ Tho Unplannod " 
(English ) ( Colour) 
( 16mm ) (Canada ) 


Do. 


P . E . 


10 -6 - 74 

U 
75145 With triangle mark . 


B / 71768 


11- 6 - 74 


" Trailer of Mehman " 88 39 (1 ) Shatrujt Films, Ran - Shrutjit Paul, 
(Hindi) (Colour) (35 

jeot, Studio , Dadar, 
mna ) 

Bombay. 
Endorsement 
Original Longih : 93 -29 m . 

Roluce shots of violenco and cruolty - - 4 . 90 m . ( Longth retainod : 0 - 50m . 
Aotual length of the film after the aforosaid deletions will be : 88 . 39 m . 


PART III — SEC. 4] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2253 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - .-- 
- - - - - - 


:- - 
- 


- 


- - 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(3 ) 


(4) 


B /72225 


& 


75146 


P . E . 


" Pragati Kaa Pahiya " 
(Docunențary ) 
(Hindi) (35mın .) 


128 32 ( 1 ) Mercury Movjetone, Sushiana Pahwa 

109-Famous Cine Bldg. Rain Pahwa . 
Bombay- 11, 


11 -6 - 74 


B /72215 


U 
75147 


" Film Faro Nite " 

(Documentary ) 
(Hindi) ( Colour) ( 35 
num ). 


495 . 60 (2 ) Sundeop , 5/ 1 Nual Kanti Mehta , 5/1 , 
Bldg ., Boniby -4 , 

Naaz Bldg ., Lamin . - 
gton Road , 
Bombay-4 , 


12 - 6 - 74 


B / 72255 


" Ujyoloko Khoji" 
(Nopali ) (Col.) (35 
mm ) (Documentary ) 
(Nopal) 


268 .00 ( 1) RoyalNepal Film Cor- RoyalNepal Film Cor 75148 P . E . 
puration Nopal. 

poration Khatmandu , - - - 
Nepal. 

12 -6 - 74 


U 
75149 


B /72199 


" Good Coffee Bru " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 - 48 (1) Film Modia , 47 -Laxmi Mr. Jyoti, G , Thakur 

Insurance Bldg ., Bom Filin Mdia . 
bay - 1. 


12 -6 -74 


B / 72198 


30 .48 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


75150 


" Clever Girl, My 
Wifc " (English ) (Col 
our ) (Advt.) 


12 -6 -74 


B / 72226 


30 - 48 ( 1) 


75151 


" Chidiyagarh Ki Sair 
(Hindi) (Colour) (Advt.) 


M / s Trio Films, Jyoti M /s Trio Films, Ken 
Studio , Kennedy Bri- nedy Bridgo, Bom - — 
dgo , Bombay-7 , bay - 7 . 


12 -6 -74 


B /72227 


30 . 48( 1) 


U 
75152 


Do, 


" Picnic At Thio Zoo " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35mm ) ( Advi.) 


12 - 6 - 74 


B / 72258 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No , 1339" (Nowsrecl) 
(35min .) 


194 .46 (1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Paccur of ladja , 24 -Poudar 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


U 

75153 
- - - - 

12 - 6 -74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marubi, 
Gujarathi, Tamil, 
Talugu, Kannada , 
Malayalam , As 
gameso, Oriya & 
Bongali versions.) 


U 


B / 72259 


267 61 ( 1) 


Do. 


DO . 


75154 


" Indian Nows Roviow 
No , 1339 " ( N . E .) 
(Nowsroel) (35mm .) 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Pudjabi, 
Urdu versions .) 


12 -6 -74 


B /72060 


51 . 00 ( 1) 


U 
75155 


Do. 


Do. 


15155 


" What A Pity " ( Eng 
lish ) (Parily in col 
our) (Documentary ) 
(35mm .) 


12 - 6 -74 


B /72229 


3859 - 99 ( 15 ) 


" 36 Ghante " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm ) 


U 
75156 


M /s Tilak Movios Pvt. M /s Tiluk Movios Pvt. 
Lid ., Anand Villa , Lid ., Bombay -54 . -- 
15th Road , Santa 
cruz Bombay- 54 , 


13 -6 -74 


U 


B /72260 


75157 P . E . 


" Colour Vision Dofi 
cincios " ( English ) 
(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(U . K .) 


228 .60 (1) Diroctor, Health , Rail- British Transport Films 

way Board Ministry 
of Railways, New 

Delhi, 


13 - 6 - 74 


B /72261 


404 .00 (2 ) Valmik Thapar , Nigar , Valmik Thapar , Nigar 
Now Delhi. 

N . Delhi. 


75158 Not P . E , 


" The City That Juixal 
Built" ( Fnglish ) (Col 
our) (Documontasy ) 
(35mm ) 


13-6-74 


B / 72146 


" Cheeso- A 
Food ” 
(Colour) 
(Austria ) 


Deliciuos 
(Giorman ) 

(35mm ) 


378 . 00 (1) Ms Shyam Bengal Omig Wipplin -Gorstr . 75169 P . F . 

Sahyadri Films, Jyoti abb, 30 - A - 10 /3 Viruna , - 
Studio , Bombay- 7. 

13 -6 -75 


2254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III— SEC . 4 


(1) 


(2) 


(5) 


B /72218 


" Festive Kerala - India " 
(Documentay (No 
Commontary , (Music 
only ) (Colour) (3 .3 
mnm ) 


71 00 ( 1) Films Diviosin , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75160 Not P . E 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peçdar - - 
Road , Bombay - 26 Road, Bombay - 26 14 - 6 - 74 


B / 72217 


59 . 00 ( 1 ) 


U 
75161 Not P . E . 


Do . 


Do . 


“ Elephant- India " (Do 
mentary ) No con 
mentary , Music only) 
(Colour ) (35mm ) 


14 -6 -74 


B /72177 


54-00(1) 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


75162 Not P. E 


“ Kashmir - India " (Do 
cumentary) (No 
Commentary , Music 
Only) (35mm ) 


14 - 6 -74 


U 


B / 77231 


75163 


P . E . 


" Vision USA 22" 
( English ) (Colour) 
(16mm ) (USA ) 


290 - 78 ( 1) United States Infor- Steeg Productions, Inc . 

mation Sorvice, 4 
New Marine Lines , 
Bombay, 20 


14 -6 - 74 


B /72230 


315 . 77 (1) 


U 
75164 


Do. 


Thomas Craven Filin 
Corporation , 


" Vision USA 21" 
(English ) (Colour) 
(16mm ) (USA ) 


P . E . 


14 - 6 -74 

U 
75165 


B / 72239 


" Zaida Jaan Ka Du 
shan " (Documen 
tary ) (Hindi) (Col 
our) ( 35mm ) , 


108 -81(1) Mr. Shreenivas Shelly , Mr. Shreenivas Shetty . 

13 - A Maulana Azad 
Road , Bombay - 11. 


14 - 6 -75 


B /72163 


" Room Service " (En 

glish ) (16mm ) (USA ) 


123 - 00(1) 


Air- India , Bombay Air - National Education 
port. 

Media Inc . 


U75166 P.E . 
15 - 6 -74 
U 

75167 P.E . 
15 -6 -74 


B /72169 


" Sanitation : Rodent 

& Insect Con 
trol" ( English ) ( 16ınm ) 
(USA ) , 


106 .00(1) Air- India , Bombay- Air- National Educational 
poit. 

Media . 


B /72164 


98 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do, 


75168 P . E . 


“ T he Bellman , Hall 
Porter" (Linglish ) 
( 161nı ) (USA ) 


15 -6 -74 


B /72264 


" Trailer of Call Girl" 82 .60 ( 1 ) Iappy Films, Dhun Mukçsh Khanna , Naaz 75169 with triangle mark , 
(Hindi) (Colour) ( 35 

Villu Varsava , Road , Cincma Bldg., Lamin - --- - 
mm ) 

Andheri, Bombay-61. gton Road , Bombay-4. 15 -6 -74 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 91 .75 m . 

1. Delete tho shot of a man over all girl lying in bed .0 .76m . 
2 . Delete the shot of call girl approaching a man in bed and unbulloning her dress — 7 . 79 m . 
3 . Delete the shot of a girl lying in bed and a man suggestively reclining ovor her - 1 .71 m . 
4 . Delete the suggostive line : " Kuchh karo na " from the song sung by girl while enticing a boy - 1 .89 m . 

Length of deletions : 1 . 15m . 
Actuallength of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be - 82 .60 m . 

A 
" Hawas" (Hindi) (Col- 3823 . 11(15 ) Mercury Productions, Mercury Productions, 3228 with triangle mark , 
our) (35mm ). 

Shri Sound Studio , Shri Sound Studio , - . 

Dadar, Bombay- 14 . Dadar , Bombay - 14 . 11 - 6 - 74 
Endorsement 

Original Length : 3996 .96 m . 
Cut 

Reel 


B /72038 


No. 


No. 


IV 


: Delete the shot of and roſeronco to Syndicate Bank in the sequence of cheating of 

the jeweller by Anil - 1 :00m . 
: Delete the entire sequence showing the modus operandi of smuggling of 

diamonds in plaster cast on Anil s log — 123 14m . 
In the scene where Mr. Singh brings Anil to his house and he is seen sitting opposite 
of Mrs. Singh delete the shots of Mrs . Singh kissing Anil in the lovo scene 
imagined by Mrs. Singh - 4 . 46m . 
(b ) In the scene of Shiv Kumar and Mrs . Singh in bed delete shot of Mrs . Singh 
kissing Anil on his neck - 1 . 441 . 


. 


- - - - 


— 


- 


. 


- . 


- 


2255 


PART III- -- SEC , 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - - 

- -- - - -- - - - - - 3 - - -- 
(1) (2) (3) 

(5 ) 

(6 ) 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5. 


VIII : 


4 . VI : (a ) Delete the indocorous action of Anil caressing the arm of Neetu during the 

song " Kal raat ugne. . . . " - 0 -67m . Replaced approved shots : 0 . 67m .) 
(b ) Delete shots of Ncctu kissing Anil on the neck and the kiss between Anil and 

Neetu at the end of the recl as imagined by Neetu _ 0 . 65m . 
VIII : Delete the following indecorous gestures and actions: 

(O ) Mrs . Singh lying on her back and wriggling with suggestive movements on the 

lines " Ye hawas kya hai" 1 .58m , 

(Replaced with approved shots : 1, 58m .) 
(il) Mrs. Singh indocorously caressing the arm and face of Anil with her lips and 

chewing his shirt collar - 0 . 52m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 - 52m .) 
( ii) Mrs. Singh sitting on the ground and sliding forward and closing and parting 

her legs to the tune of music upto the words " Pyasa tan hai pyasa man hai" 

1 . 87ın . (Replaced with approved shots : 1 . 87m .) 
(iv ) Delete one shot of Mrs . Singh sitting on high pedestal and rubbing her lcgs 

suggestively . - 1 .41 m . (Replaced with approved shots : 1 .41m . ) 
IX : (a ) Reduce to only bure suggestion the scene of Mrs. Singh killing her husband by 

drowing him in a bath tub . — 1 22n . ( Lengh retained : 2 .00ın .) 
(b ) Reduce to the minimum the shots of Mrs. Singh torturing Ncctu with knife, - 

2 .61 m . (Deleted completely) 
Reduce to bare minimum the gruesome face of the dead woman — 3 .16m . (Length 

relained : 0 .91 m .) 
XII : Reduco drastically the torture and bearing of Anil by hirelings of Mrs. Singh - 

4 . 24 m . (Length retained : 4 - 1m .) 
(b ) Delete the shot of Mrs. Singh torturing Anil s blind sister with knife to barc sug. 

gestion . — 213m . 
XIII : Reduco considerably the fight between Anil , Anil s friends and Mrs . Singh s hirc 

lings - - 7 -29m . (Length retained : 8 . 70m .) 
XIV : In the anal fight reduce drastically the fighting between the gang of Mrs . 

Singh and the gang of Natwarlal, by deleting gruesome killings and hard 2 
hitting punchos and chops (length retained : 13 . 90m .) 

Delete the shots of killing by strangulation blood oozing out etc . 
Length of deletions : 182 -90i . 

Length of approved replacement : 6 .05 in . 
Actual longth of the filin after the aforesaid alterations will bc : 3823 11m . in 15 rccls . 


XI : 


A 


B / 71368 


Mis 


4. VI 


" Ganga " ( Hindi) ( Col. 3479 38 (14) Green Light Filins, 265 G . D . Talwar, 265- Frer 3229 
Our ) ( 35mm .) Frer Road , Bombay - 1 Road , Bombay - 1. - - - With triangle mark 

15 - 6 -74 
Endorsenteret 
Original Length : 3501 . 71m . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 III In thic hand to hand fight between Ganga and Zamindar s son 

reduce the fight hy deleting hard hitting shots and chops on the 
stomach and chin . . 

9 . 14 
( Longth retained : 1067m .) 
2 IV Delete entwined legs and the portion wherç Sothji appears to 

bc kissing a girl . . . . . . . . . 2 .02 
3 V Reduce the shot of Ganga and Bindu with entwined legs 

1 .42 
(Delcted completely ) 
Reduce the fight between Sheru and Ganga by deleting hard hit 
ing shots . , 

4 .94 
(Length retained : 6 -18m .) 
5 XI Reduce the impact of violence by deleting some of the shots of 
dacoits getting killed during their cncounter with police . 

3 .05 
(Length retained : 7 . 32m .) 
6 XII Reduce to a flash dragging of a man tied to a horse , , 1 - 52. 

(length Retained : 1 : 52m .) 
7 XIII Delete the indocorous gestures and posts of the cabaret dancer dur 
ing the dance in hotel . 

11 .89 
(Replaced with approved shots : 11 -89 m .) 
8 XIV Reduce the close up of blood coming out of would from Ganga s 
back 

. . . . . . 0 . 24 
(Length relainel : 0 . 19m .) 
Length of deletions : 34 -22m . 
Length of approved replacement : 11 . 89m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 . 38 in , in 14 recls . 


- 


- - - 


2256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) [PART III — Sec , 4 


(2) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


(6 


77 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 : 
B / 72228 
Film : " A Winning Smoke " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U . Cort. No . 75127 of 4 -6 - 1974 

This certificato is also valid for English vorsion of the film in colour, The length of the filin remains unchanged . 
This certificate was endorsed on 10th Juno, 1974 . 
B /67113 

Film ; " Chorus" (Hindi) 

U - Cert. No . 70707 of 19 - 9 - 1972 
Reel No. I : Deleted various shots : 213 . 06 in . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 272 .94 mtis , in onc recl. 

This cortificate was endorsed on 10th June, 1974 . 
B /71930 
Film : “ Anjaan Raahon " (Hindi) (Col.) 
U -Cort , No. 74933 of 20 - 5 - 1974 
Reel No. VIII ; Deleted various shots : 40 .54 m . 

Actual length of the filna aftor the aforesaid deletions will bo : 3519 .87 m , in 15 reels . 

This cortificate was ondorsed on 13th Junc, 1974 . 
B /59283 
Film : " Artists Of The Sky 
U - Cort . No. : 60525 of 25 - 3- 1970 
Corrections : The No. of reels on the fuce of the certificato may be read as 2 instead of 1. 

" This certificato was endorsed on 14th Juno, 1974, 
B / 70625 
Film : " Krishan Chander" (Urdu) 
U - Cort . No. 74036 of 6 -12- 1973 
Corrections ; – Tho length of the film on the face of the certificate may be read as 571 .0 m . insload of 572 . 00 mtrs . 

This certificate was endorsod on 14th June , 1974 . 
B /72029 
Film : " Chhatrapati Shivaji" (English ) 
U -Cert. No. 74872 of 1 -5 - 1974 


Corrections :- - 


The length of the film on the face of the certificalo inay bo rcad as 528 .00 mtrs, instcad of $ 39 .00 
mtrs . 


This certificato was endorsed on 14th Juno, 1974 . 

WEEK ENDING 15TH JUNE, 1974 


C - 8038 


Mako Light of Liſting 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16mm ) U . K . 


213 - 36 ( 1) Ovcrsoas Publications Millbank Films Ltd . 

Service , 14 , Hare St, U . K . 
Cal. - 1. 


U 
73432 

- - - 
10 - 6 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


C -8039 


243 . 84 (1 ) 


Do, 


Do. 


73433 


Nobody s Fault ( Eng 

ligh ) (Col) (16mm ) 
UK . 


P . E . 


10-6-74. P.E. 


10 - 6 -74 


U 
73434 


C - 8042 


Voico & Vision 


Pachish Chalchhe 
Chalbe (Bengali) 
35mm - India 


210 -32 ( 1 ) Voice & Vision 3 , 

Madan St. 
Cal -13 . 


12-6 - 74 


U 


C - 8043 


210 -32 (1 ) 


Do. 


73435 


Wo Aro 25 ( English ) 

(35mm .) India 


Do . 
MADRAS 


12 - 6 - 74 


U 
67579 


M - 8603 


"What It Takes ( Eng 

lish ) ( 16mm .) B & W . 
USA 


219 .45( 1 ) Higgibothams (P ) Ltd ., Westinghouse Eloctric 
Madras. 

Intornational Co., 
USA 


11 -6 -74 


M -8604 


109 - 72(1) 


DO. 


Do. 


67580 


" Kecp Them Protec 
ted (English (Colour ) 
(16mm ) USA 


11 - 6 - 74 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


PART III - SEC , 41 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2257 


- 


= 


- 


= 


4 


U 


M - 8605 


87 -78 (1 ) 


Do . 


67581 - 


The Wide World of In - 
duction Heating 
( English ) (Colour ) 
16mm . USA 


11 -6 - 74 


M /8606 


197 50 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


" Trungmission for To 
morrow ( English ) 
(Colour) 16mm . USA 


U 
67582 


11 - 6 - 74 


M /8617 


Annaiyar Iruvar ( Ta 
mil) 35mm . B & W 
India 


610 . 00( 2 ) Directorato of Jofor 

mation & Public Re 
lations, Madias . 


Directorate of Infor 
mation & Public Rc 
lations, Madids 


U 
67583 


PE . 


11 - 6 - 74 


M /8618 


305 .00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 


67584 


PE 


Paruthi Velanimaikku 

VazhiMuraigal ( Tan 
mil ) 35mm . B & W . 
India 


11 - 6 -74 


M /8612 


Nagaram Saguram 3632 . 00 ( 14 ) Thripthi Films, Banga- Thripthi Films, Banga 

With cuts . 
(Malayali )35mm , 

loro lore 

67585 
B & W . India 

13 -6 -74 
Endoisement on cert, No. 67585- U dt. 13 -6 -94 19911ed to the film Nagaram Sagaram (Malayalam ) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied . 3633 22 Mts, 
Cuts 

Mts. 


1. Roel 8 – Deleto Basi s words What is inside the blouse " in the song 9 

lovo you Clousie . (Sound only ). , , , , , , 
2 . Reel 11 — Shot of Malli s legs, abdomen , downwards shown zooming for 

ward and backward . . . . . . 
3. Recl 12 – Doleto Basi s word Do not touch my private parts (Sound 

only ) . . . . . . 


22 


Total. 


1 .22 


M /8633 


Actual longth will bo 3632 .00 Mts , in 14 Reols, 
Tamil nadu Govt, 

305 . 00 ( 1 ) The Directorate of In - 
Regional Nows Bulletin 

forination & Public 
No. 118 ( Tamil ) 35mm 

Relations , Madras 
B & W . India 


Tho Directorate of In 

formation & Public 
Relations, Madras 


U 
67586 


13 - 6 - 74 


M /8569 


Roshini Aur Andhera 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
35mm . India 


3431 . 44 (14 ) Rasana Enter prises , 

Madras 


Rasang Enterprises , 
Madras 


67587 


13 -6 - 74 


M /8614 


Ungal Virupam ( Ta- 

inil) 35ınm . B & W 


3982 . 80 ( 14 ) Sri Chithra Mahal, 

Madras 


Sri K . Krishnamurti, 

Madras 


U 
67588 


With 


cuts, 


India 


14 -6 -74 


Endorsemont on cert . No. 67588 -U dt. 14-6- 74 issued to the film ‘Ungal Virupam (Tamil) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied 3884 .82 Mts . 
Curs 

Mts. 
1. Reel 6 Delete the first shot of song 2 — Raja Durai, Shown botwoon tho 
legs of Sakuntala . 

0 .91 
. . . . . . . . 
2. Roel 11 – Delete tho words of Veeraswami — " Press button soukaryam 
athaye vai " . 

0 . 91 


Total 


1 .82 


Actual legnth of the Alm will be 3982 .00 Mts , in 14 Rocls , 


M / 8607 


Electrical Proving 
Ground ( Eng) (Colour ) 

16 13m , 4USA 


274 - 32 ( 1) Higginbothans (P ) Ltd . Westignhousc Electric 
Madras 

International Co. USA 


U67589 


15 -6 -75 


2258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1397 ) [PART III - SEC . 4 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - 


- - 


V 


ISA - - 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(5 ) 


(6 ) 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY 
THE CENTAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 22ND JUNF, 1974 

U 
" Hat Snow " (English ) 2861 00 (10 ) Sovoxportúlm , Bakh - Mosfilm Studio , 

75170 
(Savcolour ) ( Sov 

tavar, Bombay - 5 . 
scopo) (35 nm . ) 

17 - 6 -74 


B /72242 


B / 72243 


80 . 00 (1 ) 


DO . 


75171 


" Trailor of Hot Snow " 
( English ) (Soyscope) 
( Sovcolour) (35 mm .) 


17 - 6 - 74 


B /72240 


75172 


“ Tho Fight?" (English ) 4384 00 (20 ) 
(Savcolour ) (Soy 
scope) ( 35 mm .) 


17 -6 -74 


U 


B / 72241 


102 . 00 (1) 


75173 


" Trailor of The Fight" 
(English ) Sovscope ) 
(Sovcolour) (35 mm .) 


17 -6 -74 


U 


B /72270 


F , B , Productions, 


75174 


" Troat It Squarely "? 
(Advt .) (English ) 
( Colour) ( 35 mm .) 


22 .86 (1 ) F . B . Productions, Film 

Contre 68 - Tardco 
Road, Boinbay -34 . 


18 -6 - 74 


B /72271 


75175 


“ Khushi Ka Bhed " 
(Advt.) (Hindi) 
( Colour) (35 mm .) 


30 . 48 (1) Animalod Advertising , Animaled Advertising. 

57 Ghoga Street, 
Indira Villa , Fort, 
Bombay- 1 . 


18 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72263 


129 . 54 ( 1) 


" Kis Ka Nuksian " 
(Documnontary ) 
(Hindi) (35 inin .) 


V . S . Enterprisos, 11. Miss Vimala , V . S . 
Ram - Shyam Niwas, Enterprises . 
S . D . Temple Rd ., 
Bombay - 16 . 


75176 

- 
18 -6 - 74 


P . C . 


U 
75177 


B /71840 


" Heart of Russia " 1112 .00 (10 ) USSR Consulate Gen - Mosfilm Studio . 
(Russian with Tamil 

Oral, Bombay. 
Commontary ) (Col.) 
(16 mm .) 


18 -6 -74 


U 
75178 


B /71841 -2 


978 -00 ( 9) 


Do. 


Maxim Gorky Film 

Studio . 


" Funny Follow From 
5th B " (Punjabi & 
Telugu) (USSR ) ( 16 
Inm ) . 


18 -6 - 74 


B /72197 


75179 


" Tho Experienco " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(Adyt.) (35 mm .) 


30 48 (1 ) Climb Films, Aran Climb. Films, 

Chambers , Tardeo 
Road , Bombay - 34 . 


172296 


B / 72296 


" Indian Nows Reviow 
No. 1340 " (Newsreel) 
(35 min .) 


213 . 00 ( 1) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Poddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Roud , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 


19 609 


B /72295 


297 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Da , 


" Indian News Roview 
No . 1340 " ( Eastorn 
Edition ) (35 mm .) 
(Newsrool) 


18 -6 -74 

U 
75180 (Valid for Fnglish , 
- - 

Hindi, Marathi, 
19 -6 - 74 Gujarathi, Tamil, 

Telugu , Kannada, 
Malayalam , Panjabi, 
Kashmiri Urdu 

& Sindhi versions.) 
U 
75181 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Bongali 
19 - 6 - 74 Assamose , Oriya , 

vorsions .) 
U 
75182 (English , Hindi, 

Marathi, Gujarati, 
19 - 6 - 74 Tamil, Tolugu , 

Kannada , Malaya 
lam , Bongali 
Oriya , Assamose , 
Punjabi, Urdu , 
Kushiniri & Sindhi 

Vorsions ) 
U 
75183 


B / 72294 


288 34 (1 ) 


Do, 


" Indian News Review 
No . 1341 ( A )" (Nows 
Tool) (35 mm ) 


B /72280 


" Mahiti Chitra No . 
184 " (Gujarati) 
(Newsrool) ( 35 mm .) 


337 .74 ( 1) Liaison Officor , Govt. Diroctor, of Informa 

of Gujarat, Bombay- tion Govt . of Gujarat . 


19 -6 - 74 


2259 


PART III — SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTI OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

SS = = = = = = 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3 


4 
- - - - - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- - 


-- - 


- - 


- - 


-- 


- - - 


B / 72292-93 


U 
75184 


" Rajyabhishok " (Eng 
lish ) (Col.) (35 mm ) 


276 .00 ( 1) Director Genoral of In - Director General of In - 

formation & Public formation & Public 
Relation , Govt. of Rolation . 
Maharashtra . 


( Valid for Hindi, 
Marathi Versions.) 


19 -6 - 74 


B / 72291 


B97 .84 (1) 


Do , 


Do. 


75185 


75185 


" Ala Kharipacha 
Hangam " (Documen 
tary ) (Marathi) (35 
mm . ) 


19 -6 -74 


B / 72272 


U 
75186 


" Trailor of Chowkidar " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35 min .) 


103 .63 (1 ) Nampala Movies. Gopal Ralhan , Nem - 

Famous Cine Bilg ., Tata Movies, Fomous 
Bombay 

Cjne Bldg., Bombay . 


With triangle mask , 


20 - 6 -74 


2 . 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 104 -46 in , 

Metres 
1 . Reduce tlio shot showing one of tho goondas raping a village girl . (Length 
rotainod : 0 . 13 m .) . . . . 

.. 

. . . . 0 .49 
Delete the shot showing Doctor s piercing tho eyo of a goonda fight 
ing with the Doctor. 

0 : 34 
Length of delolions : 0 . 83 in . 
Actual length of tho film after the aforesaid deletions will bo : 103 .63 m . 

U 
" Apni Garibi Aap 289 -56( 1) O . P . Mishra, Clo . O . M . Prakash Mishra 75187 
Mitayen " (Hindi) 

Cino tricks & Effects, & S , S , Saxcna, 
(35 mm . ) 

108, Main Road , 
Bombay - 

U 
" Primary kit" ( Euglish ) 495 .69(2 ) Depit, of Tcaching Deptt of Teaching 75188 
(Documentary) (35mm .) 

Aids ( N . C . E . K , T ) Aids . ( N . C . E , 
Indraprast Estate . K . T .) 

20-6 - 74 


B /72262 


2016 -74 P.E. 


B / 72289 


- - 


P . E . 


B / 72287 


114 . 30 (1 ) 


75189 


Do. 


" Know Your Biology 
Kit Part 1 (Botany) 
(English ) ( 16 mm .) 


114-30(1) 


P . F , 


20 -6 - 74 

U 
75190 


B /72284 


201 -47 (2 ) 


P . E . 


" Know Your Biology 
Kit Part III" (Human 
Phiysiology) (Fnglish ) 
( 16 mm ) 


20 -6 - 74 


U 


B /72286 


545 -49 ( 2 ) 


75191 


“ Prarambhik Bhau - 
tikoo Shikshan " 
(Hindi) (35 mm .) 


P . E . 


B / 72290 


545- 59 (2) 


" Teaching Elemontary 
Physics" ( English ) 
( 35 mm ) 


20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75192 

— 
20 -6 - 74 

U 
75193 


P . E . 


B /72285 


504 .142) 


" National Scionco 
Exhibition " (English ) 
(35 mm . ) 


P . E . 


20 -6 - 74 

U 
79194 


B / 72288 


" Living Together " 
(English ) (35 mm .) 


588 -26 ( 2) 


Do , 


P . E . 


20 - 6 - 74 

U 
75195 


B /71906 


With triangle mark , 


" Trailor of Patthar 94 . 18( 1) S , Kamruddin , Clo . P . D . Singh , L . P . 
Aur Payal" (Hindi) 

Bombay Film Lab . Singh . 
( Colour) (35 mm .) 

Pvt. Ltd , Bombay - 28 , 
Endorsement ; 

Original Length : 103 -63 m . 


22- 6 - 74 


Metres 


1, 
2 . 


Delete tho low angle close shot of cabaret dancer. (Blown up ) 
Delete the dialogue bolwoon the dacoit and his aido : " Laundia kafi jor 
daar hai. . . . Aap ko sanno is maalko loot loon , " 
Reduce gruosome shots of violenco . (Length rotajnod : 6 . 40 m .) . . 

Longth of deletion : 9 . 47 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforos id deletions will bo : 94 .18 m . . 


4 . 88 
4 : 59 


3 . 


16 – 369GI/75 


2260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (Part IIl - Sec . 4 


- 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


(5 ) 


(6) 


(7) 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


-ID 


- U 


L 


- V 


- 1A 


- 


- 


Endorsernent Under Rule 34 : 

B / 72260 
Film : “ Pin Before You Pusla (Fnglish ) 
U -Cert. No . 73793 of 9-11-1973. 
This cortificate is also valid for the following vorsions of the filmy under the titles indicatod against cach of them . 
I lindi 

Peta Ko Sath Pin Code Number 
Marathi 

Paiyat Pin Code Number Liha 
Gujrati 

Siljnama Man Pin Codo Lakhu 
Tamil 

Thapal Kuri En 
Telugu 

Tapua Sankaryam 
Kannada 

Tapal Pin Code 
Malayalam : Thapal Pin Number 
Assameso 

Thipanat Pin Code Diba 
Punjabi 

Pata Liklio , Pin Do Naal 
Benguli 

Chithir Thikanty Pin Codo 
Oriya 

Thikunare Pin Code Lekhantu 
Urdu 

Pata , Pin Code Ke Saath . 
The lengtlı of the film remains unchunged . This certificate was endorsed on 17th June, 1974 . 
B / 70579 
Film : " Dharinendra Plays Pockeingar " 
U -Cert. No . 74795 of 18 - 4 - 9174 . 

Merres 
Roel Nos. 1 : Deleted various shots . . . . . . 11 . 94 
II : Deleted various shots . . 

20 -73 
Deleted various shots 

86 .87 
XIII : Deleled various shots . 

72 . 74 
XIV : Deleted vitrious shots . . . . . . 20 - 39 

Length of deletions : 212 .67 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid delctions will be : 3964 . 03 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th June, 1974 . 
B /71574 
Filin : " Call Girl" (Hindi) 
A – Cert . No. 3227 of 28th May , 1974 . 

Metres 
Reel No. IX ; In Song begining with the words " Dil Jalo to koi kya 

karc kuchh kaho ni. . . . 
added “ Koi yaha gair nahin Mera hath lc lo " along 
with the picturisation . . 

15 -23 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid additions will be : 3347 .66 m . 

This certificate was endorsed on 20th June, 1974 . 
B /72348 -53 
Film : " Philips (Lights ) (English ) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No. 74927 of 18 - 5 - 1974 . 

This certificate is also valid for Telugu , Hindi, Kanada , Tamil, Malayalam and Bengali versions of the filin in 
colour. The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificato was en torsed on 21st June, 1974. 


Week Ending 22nd June, 1974 


· 


C /8045 


U 
73436 


Hironmoy Parikrama 
(Bongali) 35 mm . 
India . 


610 -00 (2 ) Aurora Film Corporil - Aurora Film Corpora 

tion P . Ltd . 175 , tion P . Ltd . 
Dhuramtala St, Cal. 
13 . 


17 -6 -74 


U 
73437 


C /8044 


Daahi 
35 mm . 


Trailer of 
(Bengali) 
India , 


P . 


94 . 45 (1 ) Kalyana Movies P . Kalpana Movies 

Ltd . 59 , Benţinck St., Lid . 
Calcutti - 1 . 


17 - 6 - 74 


C /8046 


73438 


Umno - O - Thunno 3 ,432 . 66 ( 13 ) 
( Bengali) 35 mm . 
India , 


Soincn Chitram , 25- G , Somen Chatterjeç 
Raja Bagan Lune, 
Cal- 30 . 


19 - 6 - 74 


U 


C /8053 


Praner Hillol (Bengali) 
33 mm . India . 


14 : 24 ( 1) Nishaan Motion Pic - Sohrab Boga , Bombay. 

tures , Boinbay . 


73439 
22 -6 - 74 


U 


M / 8619 


Coi 


( Tamil) 4458 00 ( 17) 
& W . 


Combines, 


III 


Roshakari 
35 mm . B 
India , 


Jeyam 
Madras. 


67590 


Madras. 


With cuts, 


17 -6 - 74 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - -- - - 


7 ) 


2261 


PART III - SEC, 41 THE GAZETIE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - - SE - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - -- - - - 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

P -- 

- 
- - -- - - - - - - 

- - - - - . - . - - - - - - 
( 1) 

- 


- - - 
- - - - 


- - 
- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


Endorsement : 
Cert. No. 67590 - U dt. 17-6 - 74 issued to the film Roshakari ( Tamil) 35 mm . B & W . 

Length applied ; 4466 . 22 Metres . 
Cuts. 

Metres 
1. Reel 5 . . Delete in song 2 – Kala s inution of moving her bust close to 

Raghu s lips on thc line " Pidithal etc ." (Rcplaced approved 
shot 1 . 52 ). . . . 

1 . 52 
2 . Reel 5 Delete whenever Kala moves with legs apilri, showing cleavage . 
(Replaced approvedl shot 0 :91) . . . . . . . 

0 .91 
3 . Reel 16 – Delete the words of Ekambarani " Padiniru Vayadhu Pullainga 
. . .Moesai Mulachudhu Pasangal. " till the sentence refers to 

8 . 22 


Raghu . 


. 


Total : 


10 . 65 


Total replicement 2 .43 M19 . Actual length 4458 .00 Mts. in 17 Reels . 


U 
67591 


M /8623 


* Akhiri Nishan 3651 -50 ( 14 ) Bemulata Filmns Shri Manu Madnani, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

(Madras ), Maclras . Macras. 
35 mm , India . 


17 - 6 - 74 


U 


M /8643 


67592 


"Varthachitra 30 
(Kannada) 35 mm . B . 
& W . India , 


289 . 56 ( 1 ) Director of Informa . Director of Informa 

tion & Publicity , Ban - tion & Publicity , 
valore . 

Bangalore . 


18 - 6 - 74 

U 
67593 


M /8644 


289 - 56 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


Vartha Chitra 31 
(Kannada ) 35 mm . B 
& W . India , 


18 - 6 - 74 


M /8526 


M /8527 


M /8528 


Central Board of Film Censor s, Madras-6 . Particulars of films cortiſied during week ending 22-6 - 1974. 

U 
*Kno 

Your Carl 164 -58 ( 1) Headmaster, Govt. National Audio Visual 67594 
(English ) 16 mm . B & High School, Bung:1- Centre , Washington , 

P . E . 
W . USA . 

lowpudur. USA 

19 - 6 - 74 

U 
Kow Airplanes Fly 197 .50( 1) 

Do . 

67595 
( English ) 16 mm . B & 

P . E . 
W . USA , 

19 -6 - 74 

U 
*Basic Llectricity Cur 43 -89 (1 ) 

67596 
rent Flow , What It is " 

P . E . 
(English ) 16 mm . B & 

19 -6 - 74 
W . USA . 

U 
"Basic Electricity A . 43 . 89 ( 1 ) 

67597 
C . Parallel Circuit 

P . E . 
(English ) 16 mm . B & 

19 -6 -74 
W . USA . 

U 
nanwani s Tailors 36 .00 ( 1 ) Gopi Cine Arts, Gopi Cine Arts , 67598 
( English ) 35 mm . B & 

Madras . 

Madras 
W . India , 

20 -6 -74 


M / 8528 


M /8613 


U 


M /8625 


With cuts. 


Night Club Mohini 3801 - 76 ( 15) Blue Mount Pronds., Blue Mount Proods , 67599 
( Tamil ) 35 mtu . B & 

Madras. 

Madras . 
W . Indiit . 

21 - 6 -74 
Endorsement : 
Cert. No . 67599 -U dt. 21st June 1974 - issued to the film Night Club Mohini (Tamil ). 

Length applied : 3822 · 17 Mts . 
Cuts. 

Metres 
1 . Reel 5 Delete the action of Jill Jill in dance before the police action. 20 .41 
2 . Reel 11 – Delete the shot of Babu hilling Kulpanu on her posterior . (Re 
placcu birs Aying) 

. . 1 : 52 

Total : 21 .93 


Total replacement 1 . 52 Mts. Actual length is 3801 .76 Mts, in 15 Reels. 


M /8634 


Trailer of O Scotha 
Kathc ( Telugu ) 35 
mm . B & W . India , 


125 .00 (1) Sovereign Cine Linter- Sovereign Cine Enter- 67600 
prisos, Madras. prises, Madrus. 

21 -6 - 74 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


2262 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [Part II — Sec . 4 


- 


U 


M /8622 


67601 


Kurangu Manam 
( Tamil) 35 mm . B & 
W . India , 


610 .00 ( 2 ) The Directorate of In 

formation & Public 
Relations , Mudras. 


The Directorate of in - 
formation & Public 
Relations , Madras . 


- 


21- 6 - 74 

U 
67602 


M /8630 


Higgini Kunita 
(Kannada ) (Colour ) 
35 mm . lodia , 


15 -24 (1 ) Shri Gopal K . Maha 

resh , Mudras. 


Shri Sohrab 
Madras. 


Boga , 


21- 6 -74 


M /8631 


15 -24 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


67603 


Janapada Nrutyam 

(Telugu ) (Colour) 
35 min , India . 


21 - 6 -74 

U 
67604 


M /8632 


15 . 24 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Bangra Natanam 
( Tamil) (Colour ) 
35 mm , India . 


21- 6 - 74 


U 


M /8562 


79 . 23 ( 1) 1. B . M . World Trade Pacific 
Corpn ., Madras, 

USA . 


Productions, 


Frontiers in Compu 
tor Graphics ( Eng.) 
(Colour) 16 mm . 
USA . 


67605 


21 - 6 -74 


M /8563 


75 . 46 ( 1) 


Do . 


Shri 
USA . 


U 
67606 


Jodo -Whitney , 


The Muscum of 
Modern Art Film 
Library (English ) 
(Colour) 16 mm . 
USA , 


21 -6 - 74 


M /8564 


67 .91 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
67607 


IBM - The 
System 
(Colour) 
USA . 


Graphic 
(English ) 
16 mm . 


I. B . M . World Trade 
Corpn ., USA . 


21 -6 - 74 


U 
67608 


M /8565 


86 . 77 (1) I. B . M . World Trade 1. B . M . World Trado 

Corpn ., Madras . Corpn ., USA . 


Laboratory Automa- 
tion Based System 
(English ) (Colour ) 
16 mm . USA . 


21 -6 - 74 


M /8566 


"MIS Shop Tracking 
(English ) (Colour) 
16 mm . USA . 


67 . 91 ( 1 ) I. B . M , World Trade 

Corp ., Madras . 


U 
67609 


Acrolog sraumann 
Aircraft, USA . 


21-6 -74 


M /8567 


45 . 27 (1) 


Do. 


U 
67610 


Time Sharing Option 
(English ) (Colour ) 
16 mm . USA . 


J. B . M . World Trade 
Corpn ., USA . 


21 - 6 -74 


U 


M /8636 & 37 


"Now Era în Scri- 466 .00 (2) Shri H . M . K . Murthy, Shri H . M . K . Murthy, 67611 
culture (English & 

Bangalore . 

Bangaloro. 
Kannada ) 35 mm . B 

22-6 - 74 
& W . India . 

U 
Radhama Pell 4799 -68 ( 18 ) Sri Lakshminarasiinha Sri Lakshminarasimha 67612 
( Telugu ) 35mm •B & 

Productions, Madras. Productions, Madras. — 
W . Iodia . 

22 -6 - 74 


M / 8629 


PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL 

BOARD OF FILM CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING THE 20TH JUNE 1974 


U 


B / 72283 


75196 


“ Doosri Sveta " (Hindi) 3007 . 47 ( 12 ) Bubber Films, 2 - Ap - B . S . Khanna & J. L . 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .). 

Sara Apartment Bubber, 2 - Apsara 
Bandra - 50 . 

Apartment, Bombay-50 


- 


24 - 6 - 74 


B /72257 


75197 with triangle mark . 


24 - 6 -74 


" Chowkidar " (Hindi) 3946 25(16 ) Namrata Movics, Fa- Gopal Ralhan 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 

mous Cine Bldg ., 
Mahalaxmi, 

Bombay - 11. 
Endorsement 
Original Longth : 3964 . 23 m . 

Sr, Cut 
No. No . 
1. VII. Delete suggestion of kiss between Jagirdar Gopal and the dancer 
whilo sitting on a coach , 

.. 

. . . . . 


3 .00 m . 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2263 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - 


- 
Cut 


NO. 


No . 


4 . 22 ni. 


1 .83 m . 


XII : Reduce to half shots showing Doctor being dragged by means 

of a rope by Gopal on a horso . 

(Length retained : 3 . 96 m .) 
XIV : In the fight between Doctor and Jagirdlar s face smeared with 

blood . . . . . . . . . . . 
XV : Delete the shot showing chowkida s stick piarcing the eye of . . 

yoonda who has fallen down , . . . . 
5 . XVI : Reduce the overall impact of fight between Doctor and Gopal 

with his aides by deleting gruesome close shots of hitting on the 

face and stomach . . . 
Length of deletions : 17 .98 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be 3946 25 m in 16 reels 


16 m . 


7 . 87 m . 


B /71926 


75198 


" Sati Arundhati " 3908 - 15 (15) Virendra Kumar Agar- Giriraj Movies, Hy 
(Marathi) (35 mm .). 

wal Giriraj Movies , drabad - 2 . 
C / o Bombay Gucst 
house, Bombay 26 


24 -6 -74 


U 
75199 


B / 72343 


Films, 


" Trailer of Ghatna " 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35 mm . ). 


70 .00 ( 1 ) Aradhana 

Bombay -50 . 


Filnis, Aradhana 

Bombay -50 . 


24 - 6 - 74 

U 
75200 


B /72244 


" The Man From The 2675 . 00 (10 ) Sovexport film Colabu , A Gorky Film Studio 
Other Sido" (English ) 

Bombay- 5 . 
(Sovscopo) (Sovco 
lour) (35 mn .)(USSR ) 


24 -6 - 74 


U 


B / 72245 


70 .00 (1) 


Do. 


75201 


" Trailer of The Man 
From the Other Sido " 
( English ) (Soyscopc) 
(Sovecolour) ( 35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


24 - 6 -74 


U 


B / 72249 


114 . 00 ( 1) 


75202 


" Trailer of Ruslan and 

Ludmila " ( English ) 
(Sovecolour) (35 mm .) 


24 -6 -74 

U 
75203 


B /72247 


80 .00 (1) 


" Trailer of Tho Rc 
public s Property " 
(English ) ( Soyscope) 
(Soveolour) (35 nim .) 
(USSR ). 


24 -6 - 74 


B / 72219 


" Kerala I-India " (No 
Commentary ) (Music 
Only ) (Colour) (35 
mm .) (Documentary ) . 


73 .00( 1) Filins Division , Govi, Films Division , Govt. 75204 Not P . E . 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - - 
Road, Bombay -26 . Road , Bombay-26 . 25 -6 - 74 


B / 72220 


59 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 
75205 
25 -6 - 74 


“ Ganges - India " (No 
Commentary ) (Music 
Only ) (Colour) ( 35 
mm .) (Documentary ) 


Not P. E . 


B / 72224 


54 . 00 ( 1) 


75206 


Not P . E . 


" Manipur - India " (No 
Commentury ) (Music 
Only ) (Colour) (35 
mm ). (Documentary) . 


25 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72222 


78 . 00 ( 1) 


75207 Not P . E . 


" Korala II- India " (No 
Commentary , Music 
Only ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .). 


25 -6 - 74 


U 
U - 75208 Not P . E 


B / 72237 


Mountain Films Ltd ., 


“ Men of War" (English ) 182 .88 ( 1) National Education & 
(16mm .) ( U . K .) 

Information Films Ltd ., 
Bombay - 1 . 


25- 6 - 74 


25-6.74 


U 


B / 72233 


182 .88( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


“ Perfect Day " ( Eng - 
lish ) ( 16mm .) ( U . K .) 


75209 Not P.E . 


25 -6 -74 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


2264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (PART III - SEC . 4 

- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


-- - - 


LEM 


U 


B /72209 


259 .08 (1) 


- 


Do . 


75210 


P . E . 


“ Script to Screen " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(16min .) ( Canada ) 


25 -6 -74 


B / 72236 


" Blotto " (E glish ) 
( 16 mm .) (U .K .). 


192 .88 (1) 


U 
75211 Not P . E . 


Do. 


25- 6 -74 


B /72238 


75212 Not P . E . 


averagin good 


" One Good Turn " 
(English ) (16 mm .) 

(U . K .) 


hemos 


182 . 88 ( 1 ) National Education & Mountain Films Ltd . 

Information Films 
Ltd ., National Houso 
Tullach Road , Bom 
bay - 1. 


182.801) National Education se Mountain Films Lid.___?7s712 NotP.E. 


25 - 6 -74 


U 


B /72344 


" Mahiti Chitra No. 
185 " (Gujarati) (35 
mom .) (Newsrcel) 


243 . 84( 1) Liaison Officer, Goyt. Director of Informa- 75213 
of Gujarat, Bombay - 1 tion Govt. of Gujarat - - - 

26 -6 -74 


U 


B /72387 


75214 


" Indian News Review 
No. 1341" (Southern 
Edition ) ( 35 mm .) 


296 . 90 ( 1) Films Division , Govt, Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - 
Road, Bombay - 26 . Rond, Bombay -26 . 


26 - 6 -74 


(Valid for English , 
Hindi, Tamil, Tel 
gu , Kannada , 
Malayalam ver 
sions.) 


B / 72386 


212 . 75 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


" Indian News Revlow 
No. 1341" (Newsrocl) 
(35 mm .). 


75215 (Valid for English , 

Hindi, Marathi, 
26 -6 - 74 Gujarati , Bengali , 

Assamoso , Oriya , 
Punjabi, Kashiniri 
and Urdu ver 
sions ). 


B / 72196 


365 . 76 (1) Director, T. V . Centre 


Rolox Films 


75216 


P . E . 


" Strango Planot" 

( English ) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) (Geneva ). 


26 -6 -74 


B /72266 


27 . 43 (1) 


75217 


“ Vinod Khanna Ki 
Shooting (Hindi) 
(Colour ) Adyt . 
(35mm .). 


Video Arts, Figuro Video Arts . Bombay -1 
Ara , 160 -Churchgate , 
Reclamation , Bom 
bay - 1. 


26 -6 - 74 


B / 72265 


27 .43 ( 1) 


Do. 


U 
75218 


Do. 


" Zinda Dil Logon 
Ki Pasand " (Hindi ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 
Advt.). 


25218 


26 - 6 - 74 


B / 72143 


30 . 48 ( 1) 


U 
75219 


F . B . Productions 


" Tho Camera " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 35 
mm .) (Advt.). 


F . B . Productions , 
Film Centre, 68 - Tar 
deo Road, Bombay 
34 . 


26 - 6 - 74 


B /72142 


30 -48 (1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 
75220 


“ Mothor Caro" ( Eng . 
lish ) (Colour ) (Advt.) 
(35 mm .). 


26-6-74 


26 - 6 - 74 


B /72330 


" The Makors of The 
Groen Revolution " 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .) 


U 
847 . 00 ( 3) Shri Gopal K . Maha . Shri S . Sukhdev, Uni- 75221 P . E . 

resh , General Mana. ted Filin Arts , Bom - - - 
ger , M /s , United bay- 18 . 

26 - 6 - 74 
Film Arts, Bombay -18 . 


B /72277 


(English ) 

(Advt .) 


“ Blue Jet ” 
(Colour) 
(35 m .) 


Advertising 


U 
75222 


Radio 
Services . 


30 .48 (1) Radio Advertising 

Sorvicos, Cocil Court 
Lansdowno Road , 
Bombay- 1. 


26 - 6 - 74 


U 


B /72346 


75223 


" Maharashtra" (Eng- 

ligh ) (Col.) (Docu 
montary) (35 mm .). 


430 .00 (2) Maja Mediums, C /21, Maja Mediums 

Tardco Air Condi 
tioned Market, Bom 
bay - 34 . 


26 - 6 - 74 


PART III - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - - - - - 

- -- - - - - - - - - 
2 

S 


2265 
- - 


- 


I 


- 


H 


- 


- - - 


B /72334 


75224 


“ Face To Faco " (Eng . 

lish ) (Colour ) ( 35 
mm .) (Advt.). 


30 -48(1) M s Film , 5, Jyoti M /s. Film 5, 

Studio , Kennedy 
Bredge, Bombay- 7. 


26 - 6 - 74 


B /72333 


30 .48( 1) 


DO 


Do. 


75225 


" Como Closer " (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour) ( 35mm ) 
(Advt .). 


26 - 6 -74 


B /72340 


75226 With triangle mark . 


26 - 6 - 74 


" Trailer of Pyase Dil" 85 -34 ( 1) Now Ashoka Inter - New Ashoka Inter - 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

national. 

national 
( 35 mm .), 
Endorsement – 
Original Length : 85 . 95m . 

Delete the shot of a comedian pushing his buttock up while the nurse is holding 
injection in hor hand . . . . . . . . . . 
Length of delotion : 0 .61 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be : 85 . 34 m . 


0 .61 m . 


B /70537 


“ D . M . S ." ( English ) 

(Documentary ) (35 
Anm .). 


327 . 00 ( 2 ) Filnis Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt. 

of India , 24- Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar 
Road, Bombay -26 . Road, Bombay -26 . 


75227 

- 
26 -6 - 74 


P . E . 


U 


B /72130 


" The Rainbow Boys " 2527 .40( 10 ) Film Finance Corpo - Canadian Film Deve - 75228 With triangle maik 
(English ) (Colour) 

rution , 91- Walkosh - lopment Corporation 
( 35mm .) (Canada ). war Road , Bombay - 6 

26 - 6 - 74 
Endorsement , 
Original Length : 2529 .64 m , 

Delete the underlined words from the undermontioned dialogue: 
Cut Page 
No. No. 
1. 40 “ Scrowing " spokon by Gladys to Logan - 0 , 24 m . . 

Delete the closo shots of Play boy pin ups displayed on wall in Logan s shack .- 2 .00 m . 
Longth of Deletions : 2 - 24 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 2527 40m . 


097276 


B / 72176 


Se 


12.00) vahul aco 


P . E . 


B / 72341 


" Jai Hind " (Hindi) 292 .00 (1) Vithal & Co . 

Vithal & Co. 

75229 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 

- 
(Documontary) 

27 - 6 - 74 

U 
" Dastan - E -Laila Ma- 3935 . 69( 15 ) Chandra Art, Sushil Chandra Art. 

75230 
jau (Hindi) (Colour) 

Vibar , Vile Parle, 
Bombay- 57. 

27 - 4 - 74 

U 
" A Historic Visit-Mr. 1172 . 00 ( 4 ) Films Division , Govt. Filmns Division , Govt. 75231 
Brezhnov In India " 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 -Peddar - - 
( English ) (Colour) 

Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 27 -6 -74 
(Documentary ) 35mm ) 


B / 72281 


Not P . E . 


B /72354 


694 .62(3) 


Do. 


Do . 


75232 


" Bulgaria . Prime 
Minister Mr. Stanko 
Todorov Visits Indlu " 
( English ) (Documon 
tary ) ( 35 mm .). 


27 - 6 - 74 


U 


B / 72298 


114 . 00 ( 1) 


Do , 


Do. 


“ Synthesis " (English ) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 
(Documentary), 


P . E . 


75233 

- 
29 -6 -74 

U 
75234 


B /71121 


" Aashirwad” (Hindi) 
(Colour) (Advt.) 


30 . 48 (1 ) Prakash Arora , Arora Prakash Arora , Arora 

Films, Arora Hogpital Films Bombay- 52 . 
Bombay - 52. 


29 -6 -74 


IT 


B / 72137 


75235 


" I. C .I. America Shows 
its Colour" (English ) 
(Colour ) (16 mm ) 
( U . S . A .). 


CJ. (India ) Private Imperial Chamical 

Chemical 
Ltd , CrescentHouse Industries Ltd ., 
19 -Walchand Hira 
chand Marg, Bom 
bay - 1 . 


. Not P . E . 


29 -6 - 74 


B /72367 


" Gupt Gyapamu " 3699 .12 (14 ) Adarsh Arts , Manck B , K . Adarsh , Adarsh 
( Telugu ) (Colour) 

Chambers, Bombay-4 . Arts . Bombay - 4 . 
(35 mm .). 


- 


3230 

- 
24 -6 -74 


P . E . 


2266 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 . 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART III - SEC . 4 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - = = - - -- - 

- -- - - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- YA - II 


23 


Endorsement Under Rule 34 

B / 72297 
Film : " Portrait of a Humanist" ( English ) 
U -Cert. No , 74842 of 26 - 4 - 1974 . 
This certificate is also valid for the following versions of tlie film undor the titles indicated against cach cftlicm . 
Hindi . . Manav Vad Ka Ek Pujuri 

Malayalam Oru Manushyasnehi 
Marathi Maonytecha Ek Pujari 

Assameso . EgarakiManabatar Pujari 
Gujarati Mandvatavadini Tagvir 

Punjabi . Insaniyat Da Pujari 
Tamil 

Manicabhimani Balraj Sahani Bengali Manabatar Ek Pujari 
Telugu . . Manavatuwadi 

Oriya , Manabatar Jono Pujari 
Kannada , OBBA Munayatavadi 

Urdu . , Ingu niyat Ka Pujari 
The length of the film remains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974 . 
B /72267-68 
Film : " Ramon Bonus Stainpg " (English & Hindi) (Colour ) 
U - Cert. No. 73657 of 18 - 10 - 1973 . 

This certificate is also valid for Bengali and Marathi versions of the film in colour. Tho longth of the film remains 
unchanged . 

This certificato was ondorsed on 24th June, 1974 
B /72278 
Film : " Cherana " (English ) 
U . Cort. No . 72863 of 16 - 7- 1973 

This cartificate is also vulld for Tamil version of the film in colour. The longth of the film romains unchanged , 

This cortificate was endorsed on 24th June , 1974 . 
B /71851-7 
Film : " Philips" (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 74662 of 25 - 3 - 1974 , 

This certificate is also valid for Bangali , Oriya , Kannada , Marathi, Telugu , Tamil and Gujarathi versions of the 
film in colour. 

The length of the film romains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974. 
B / 72299 
Film : " Bused on trust " (English ) 
U - Cort. No. 75121 of 1st June, 1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for the following versions of the film under the titles indicated against each of them . 
Hindi Wishwas Ki Baat 

Malayalam . Viswasam 
Marathi , Vishwasachi Bab 

Assamese Soito Bishwagar Katha 
Gujarati Vishwasni Vaat 

Punjabi . . Wishwas Di Gall 
Tamil . Nambikkai 

Bengali 

Biswasor Par 
Telugu . , Naninakamu 

Oriya . Biswagar Katha 
Kannada Nambiko 

Urdu , Bharose Ki Baat. 
The longth of the film romains unchanged . This certificate was endorsed on 24th June, 1974 . 
B /72058 
Film : " Paap Aur Punya " (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No. 75113 of 1- 6 - 1974 
Rool No. 

V Deleted various shots : 14 -33 m . 
IX Deleted various shots : 12 - 50 m . 
XII. Deleted various shots : 219 -15 m . 
Xiy Deleted various shots : 49 - 37.m . 
XVI Deleted various shots : 5 - 18 m . 

XVII Deleted various shots : 21 . 95 m . 
Longth of delotions : 322 .48 m . 

Actual length of the film afler the aforesald deletions will be : 4070 -60m . in 17 reels. 

This cortificato was endorsod on 25th Juno, 1974 
B / 72229 
Film : 36 Gbante " (Hindi) ( Col.) 
U - Cert. No. 75156 of 13 -6 - 1974 . 

Rool No . V : Deleted various shots : 137 . 16 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3722 - 83m . in 15 reels. 
This Certificate was endorsed on 29th June , 1974 . 


PART III - - SEC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 

- - -- --- - - - 


2267 
- - 


- - - 


5 


- 


- 


U 


C / 8047 


73440 


Trailer of Bikaley 
Bhorer Phool (Ben 
guli) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ) 


91 . 44 ( 1 ) K , L , Kapoor Films K . L . Kitpoor Films 

11, Ganesh Chandra 
Avenue, Calcutta -13 


25 -6 -74 


U 


C /8048 


Do . 


Hikaley Bhorer Phool 3, 957 . 83(15) 
( Bengali) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


R . N . Malhotra & 
R . K . Kapoor 


73441 


25 -6 - 74 


C / 8055 


73442 


Paschim Bangel Sur- 
haror Sangbad Chitra 
(58) (Newsrçel) (Ben ) 
gal ) ( 35mm (( India ). 


320 - 00( 1) Parijat Bagu Produc - Dept. of Informil 

tions 1 /32- F , Prince tion & Public Relal 
Golam Mohammad tions Govt , of West 
Road , Cal- 26 . 

Bengal Writers Buil 
dings , Calcutta - 1. 


27-6 - 74 


M / 8640 


CENTRAL BOARD OF TILM CENSORS, REGIONAL OFFICE, MADRAS- 6 
PARTICULARS OF FILMS CERTIFIED DURING WEEK ENDING SATURDAY 29 -6 -74 

U 
Anaganaga Oka 4625 - 34 ( 16 ) Lavanya Picturos , Shri B . Uma Mahes - 67613 
Thandri" ( Telugu ) 

Madras. 

waram (Mahesh ), m - With Cuts 
( 35 mm .) B & W . 

Madras, 

25- 6 -74 
(India ). 
Endorsement on Cort. No .67613- 0 dt 25th June 1974% - isglied to the film Anaganaga Oka Thandri ( Telugu ). 
Longth applied : 4634 - 78 Mts. 
Cuts . 

Mts . 
Roel 13 – Delete the entiro soquence of Singanna molesting Lakshmi in hay 

stack to d suggestion only , especially deleting his lying over her and 
kissing hei several times . (No objection to tho portion of the shot 
in tho end when Ramamurthy comes there and throws a stone aim 
ing it at Singanna ). (Retained ( -09 ) . . 

9 . 44 


Total 


, 


, 


, 


9 : 44 


M / 8641 


Actual length of the film will be 4625 - 34 Mts. In 16 Reels 

U 
"Swathi Nakshathi- 4357 . 24 (15 ) Ashok Pictures , Ashok Pictures, 67614 With Cuts 
ram ( Tamil) ( Partly 

Madrus 

Mudras 
colour) ( 35 min ) 

26 -6 -74 
(India ). 
Endorsement on cert. No, 67614- U dt. 26th June 1974 - isgued to the film Swathinakshathiram ( Tamil ). 
Length applied : 4364 -10 Mts . 
Cuts . 

Mts . 
1 .Roel 6 Delete ( xt ) the close -up of the exposed thigh of Kannamma ; (b ) the 

action of George s removing belt and unbuttoning pants at the 
sight of Kannamma . 


. 


. 


: 


4 .86 


Total 


4 . 86 


Actual length of film will be 4359 24 Mts. In 15 Recls. 
Total colour portion is 598 -31 Mts . in Reels 5, 7, 8, 11, 12 & 15. Black & White portion will be 3760 -93 Mts. 


U 


M /8638 


Trailer of Bhoogo - 
lam Thiriyunnu 
(Malayalam ) ( 35 mm .) 
B & W (India ) 


131 06 (1) Raja Silpi 

Madias 


Films, Shri P . Sreekumasan 

Thumpi, Madras 


67615 


27 - 6 - 74 


U 


P . E . 


1 


M / 7817 Satruny Cinestrip - 35 60 . 96 (1 ) Filmaids, Madras Shri Satish Kumar, 67616 
(Music with English 

Madras 
titlos ) ( 35 mm .) 

27 -6 - 74 
B & W (India ) 

U 
M / 8628 Krishna yeni (Telugu ) 4214 . 46 (16) Narendra Interna - Gopikrishna Movies, 67617 
( Colur) ( 35 mm ) 

tional, Madras. 

Madras 
(India ) 

28 - 6 - 74 

U 
M /8620 & 21 Super Tasto (English 30 .48(1 ) Durga Khote Prudns, Durga Khote Prodns, 67618 
& Hind) (Colour ) 

Madras . 

Madras . 
( 35 mm .) (India ). 

28 - 6 - 74 
- - - - - 

- - - - 
17 = 369 GJ/75 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


2268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) (PART III — Sec . 4 

- - - - 


- - 


- 


2 


- 


- 


- - - 


M / 8646 


115 .00 (1) Krishnaswamy Assocl- Krishnaswamy Asso 

ates, (P ) Ltd . Mudras ciates (P ) Ltd , Madrus 


" Bhoothain Varukira - 
thu Jagrithai ( Tamil) 
( 16 mm .) B & W 
(India ). 


67619 
- 

28 - 6 - 74 


M /8652 


Why Silversands 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (India ). 


213 36 (1 ) Shri Yeshwant H . Shri Yeshwant H . 

Veecumsco , Madras Voecumsee, Midrus 


67620 
- 
28 -6 - 74 


M /8309 


99 .35 (1) Malaysian High 

Commission , Madras 


Jaya Berjaya (Eng 

lish ) (16 mm ) B & W 
Malayasia ). 


Film 
ysia . 


Negara , Mala - 


67621 


28 -6 - 74 


U 


M /8024 


M /8536 


“ Dialogue with 1 230 .42( 1) Fr . T . V . James , Goldberg Brog . USA 67622 P . E . 
Doctor? (English ) 

Andhra Loyola Col 
(Colour) ( 16 m .) lego, Vijayawada . 

28-6 -74 
(UŞA .) . 

U 
Netru Indri Nalai 4418 : 06 (18 ) Amalraj Films, Shri S . A . Asokan , 67623 With Cuts . 
( Tamil) (Colour) 

Madras. 

Madras. 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 

29 -6 - 74 
Endorsement on Cort . No . 67623-U dt. 29th June 1974 — Isgued to film Netru , Indru , Nalui ( Tamil) (Colour). 
Longth applied : 4444 . 82 Mts . 
Cuts 

Mts . 
1. Reol 4 ( ) Delete reference to use of cycle chain as a lethal weapon 

2 . 13 
(b ) Delete display of cycle chains before the fight . 

5 . 17 
2 . Reel 13 Reduce the rope fight between Manickum and Jambu , eliminating 

the action of Manickam slashing thọ rope repeatedly upon Jambu 
(Retained 9 . 14 ) 

9 . 74 
3. Reel 17 Reduce action of light to half the present longth , reducing the shot 

of Dayaman with eyes bleeding to a flash , or substitute a shot without 

showing blood (Retained 2 -43 ) 
4 , Reol 17 Delete tho words " Padlkkada vangal Ellam Doctor Pattam 
Ketkiranga " . . . . . . . . . . . . 

4 .86 

Total · · · 
Actual length of film will be 4418 .06 Metres in 18 Reels . 


4 .86 


. 


. 


. 


26 - 76 


PART III — SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
- - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - --- - -- - - - - - -- -- - - - = = = = = = = - - - - - - - . .. -- . . . . -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - . 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
1 2 

3 

4 


2269 
--- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


PARTICULARS OF I ILMS CERTIFIED OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 

DURING THE WEEK ENDING THL 10th AUGUST, 1974 


B /72601 


Pro - 


201 -78 

( 1) 


75541 


" Urban 

tives " 
( Colour ) 
(U . S . A .) 


P. E . 


Alterna - 
( English ) 
(16mm .) 


United Stalos infor- Arthur Barr 
mation Service , ductions, Inc . 
4 -Now Marino Lines 
Bombay - 20 , 


5 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72388 


75542 


199 . 33 

( 2 ) 


PE 


" Seedling And Plant- 

ing Machines " 
( English ) ( 16mm .) 
( Documentary ) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay - 26 . 


Filins Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 - Poddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


5 - 8 - 74 


U 
75543 


B / 72537 


298 . 00 

( 1 ) 


P . E . 


" Coppor The Motal 
or 800 Yeary " 
(Cuprul) (English ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


National Education Romania Films. 

& Intermation 
Films Ltd , 


13.3.8.74 


5 - 8 - 74 


B /72536 


290 .00 

(1 ) 


75544 


P . E . 


" Cosmic Rays " 

(Razc Cosmice ) 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


5 - 8 -74 


U 
75545 


B /72438 


305 .00 

( 1) 


P . E . 


“ Catalysors " 

(Catalizatori) 
( English ) ( Colour) 
( 35min .) (Romania ) 


5 - 8 -74 


B /72431 


" Kasauti" (Hindi) 

(Colour) ( 35mm .) 


4300 - 28 

(16 ) 


75546 With 


trianglo , mark 


Lalit Kala Mandir, Lalit Kala Mandir, 

15 - fair fiold - A Sant 
lacruiz Wost , 
Bombay- 54 , 1 


5 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4335 .25m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. 

Delete tho following dialoguo between Bholwala and Sapna : Bhelwala ; 

“ Aur Kitna daal dun ? Sapna : " Thoda sa , mirchi" . . . . 122m , 
2 . III : Reduce the fight hoween Hira and Amit deleting tho hard hittingblows 

on stomach and fuco . . . . . . . . . . 2 . 10m . 
(longth retained 10 - 15 m .) 


3. 


VI 


: Delete the underlined dialogue and the visuals showing the torn por 

tions of the pillows : 
Ramu : " Takkya je ko so gaya tha, Para padu . , . . . . 

(Replacod with approvod shots : 0 . 34m .) 


2 - 43m , 7 


4 . XIV 


Reduce the fight between Pyarelal and Seth Hariran & his men in the 
boat, particularly deleting tho grliesome visuals and hard hits on 
stomach and faco , 

. . . . 183m . 
(Length retained : 25 . 60m .) 


5 . XVII 


: Reduce the violence in the last fight by deleting tho hard hittingblows 
on stomach and face and gruosome visuals . 

. . 
(Loogtlı rotainod ; 44 2001.) 


. 


10 - 3681. 


6 . 


IX 


: Delete tho dialogue of a Tickot Checker in the railway compartment, 

tho reforenco to tho Railway Minister when a paşronger complaints 10 
him that the lights and fans in the compartment are not working . - 


17 . 37m . 


Length of deletions ; 35 : 31mi. 
Length of approvod replacement : 0 - 34m . 
Actual length of the fim after the aforesuld alterations will be 4300 -28m . in 16 reels. 


2270 
- -- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (Part 111 — SEC , 4 
- - - - - 

- - - - - -- - - - 

- - - -= = = 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - - - -- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- . - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


B / 72624 


" Trailer of Duniya 

Ka Mola " (Hindi) 
(Colour ) ( 35mm .) 


87 .48 

(1 ) 


G . M . Roshan , Poar ] G . M . Roshan , Pearl 75547 

Pictures , Air Con Picture Air C ( - - - - 
ditioned Market, ditioned Maket , 5 - 8 - 74 
Bombay - 34 . 

Tardeo , Bombay- 34 , 


U 


B / 72441 


75548 

- - - - 
6 - 8 - 74 


With 

mark . 


triangle 


" Duniya Ka Mola . 3992 -88 Poarl Pictures, 

Do, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (15 ) 1 /4 Air Condition 
(35mm .) 

Market, Bombay- 34 , 
Endorsement: 
Original Longth : 4005 . 87m , 
Cut Reel 
No. No . 
1. 1 ; In the dance soquonco of Badriprasad dressed as a girl, delele his indecant 

action of pushing tho shehnui forward and backward in his font. . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 2 : 24m . ) 


Metres 


2 : 24m , 


2 . 


IV 


4 . 


Vil 


: During the picturisation of the song beginning with tho words “ Jad . 

garia moin jangaria " . . . . . . deleje the view of Shyema caressing the 
Statue of a malo in a passionato manner when the camera tilts down 
with her to composo the midriff of tho Stat110 . 

. . . 3 . 05m . 
(Roplacod with ap rovod shots : 3 :0 m .) 
: Delete the dialogue “ Khada parsi ko baitha parsi kar dungu " 
as said by Badiiprasad . 

1 . 10m . 
; Delete the underlined words from the sentence " Parede ke 

aage parde ke peechhe, na naane kahan kahnishus raha hul " as spoken 
by Badripragad , 

(Deleto sound only ) ( Replacedwith approved words) 
: Delete the undorlinod word from the sentonce " Salo no meio Ghun 
shyam kimundi bhi chura li" as spoken by Badriprasad , 

( Deleted sound ) (Replaced with approved words ) 
: During the picturisation of the song beginning with tho words " Kui 

ajnabi sa . . . . . . " delete 
(a ) tho close up of Shyama when the camera tills down to exposc 
the cleavage of hor bust 

• , . 0 - 41m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 0 . 41m .) 


5 . 


X 


6 . 


XI 


(b ) the clogo front view of Shama s midriff whon her skirt goos up . . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 0 . 97m .) 


0 . 97m . 


7 . XVI 


: Reduce considerably the last fight particularly deleting closc punches 

on stomach and face and close viows of face with blood . . 11 . 89m . 
(Length retained : 34 45m .) 
Length of deletions : 19 .66m . 
Langth of approved replacement : 6 .677 , 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be - 3992 . 88m . in 15 reels. 


B / 72652 


" Bhau " (Marathi) 

( 35mm .) 


1017 .42 

(4 ) 


75549 


Not P .E . 


Shri K . Vaikunth , Shri K . Vaikunth . 

12 - A Vinod Villa , 
Worli , Bombay- 18 . 


6 - 8 - 74 

U 
75550 


B /72645 


Hasin Hai Jindagi" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm . ) 
(Advertisomont) 


30 48 

(1 ) 


Film Media , 

47 -Laxmi Insuranco 
Building , Sir P . M . 
Road , Bombay - 1 . 


Mrs. Jyoti G . Thakur 

Film Media . 


6 - 8 -74 


B / 72623 


M 


" Rang Mein Aiye ” 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(33mm ) 
(Advertisemont) 


30 .48 

( 1) 


s . Film - 5 , Jyoti 
Studios , Kennedy 
Bridgo, Bombay -7. 


U 
M /s. Filnis - 5 , Jyoti 75551 

Studios , Kennedy - - 
Bridgo , Bombay-7 , 6 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72607 


" Tho Trustod Hoalth 

Builder" (English ) 
( Colour ) (Advt. ) 
(35mm ) } 


30 -48 

(1) 


75552 


Ciporad Commupi- Mr, Safar Hai, 

cations , National Cinerad 
Houso , Bombay - 1. munications, 


Com - - 


6 - 8 -74 


U 


B /72586 


" Concort" (English ) 

(Colour) ( 35mm .) 
(Adyortisement) 


30 -48 

(1 ) 


75553 


Sridhar Kshirsagar, Sridhar Kshirsagas , 
103, Olympus, 

103, Olympus, 
Altamount Road, Altamount Road , 
Bombay - 26 , 

Bombay - 26 . 
Trivedi, 518, Collegc Triveni, 518 College 
Road , Matunga , Road , Matunga , 
Bombay - 19 . 

Bombay - 19 . 


6 - 8 -74 
U 
75554 


1 / 72627 


30 : 48 


D . Q . C . ( English 
( 35mm .) 
Adyortisoment) 


6 - 8 - 74 


PART III - Sec . 4) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 

- - - -- - = -- - - - - -- - - --- - 


2271 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


2 


B /72626 


30 .48 


75555 


" Like Friondship 

You Can Trust" 
(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35mm . ) 
(Advortisomont) 


K . S . Raju , 

M /s . SRI 35 , 
Grouļi St., 
Bombay - 1 


K . S . Raju , 

M /S, SRI 35 , 
Groan St. , 
Bombay - 1. 


6 - 8 -74 


U 
75556 


B /72625 


Do. 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


" Psychic Lady Tolls" 

Your Fortuno " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(Advertisement) 
(35mm .) 


6 - 8 - 74 


B / 72221 


(No 


54 .00 


75557 


Not P . E . 


" Junglo -India " 

Commentary ) 
(Music Only ) 
(Documentary ) 
(35mm .) 


Films Divisjon , 

Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bonibay - 26 . 


Films Division , 

Govt. of India , 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


7 -8- 74 


B /72605 


Communi- 


75558 


“ The Now Young 

Outlook " ( English ) 
(Colour ) (Advi.) 
( 35mm .) 


30 -48 

(1 ) 


Cinerard 

cation . 


Communi- Cinqrad 

cation . 


7 - 8 - 74 


U 
75559 


B / 72405 


" M . M . M . Rumi" 

(Englislı ) ( Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Adyt.) 


30 .48 

( 1) 


Ronnio Almoida , Ronnio Almoida , 

No . 4 , Stoola Bombay -50 . 
Maris, Annoxo 
Offiturner Road , 
Bombay - 50 . 


7 - 8 -74 


B /72661 


75560 


" Indian News Re. 

viow No. 1347 " 
(Newsrcel) ( 35mm .) 


153 .00 

( 1) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India 
24 - Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24- Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


7 - 8 - 74 


(Valid for Eng 
Ilsh , Hindi, 
Marathi, Guja 
rati, Tamil , 
Tolugu , Kan 
nada , Mala 
yalam , 

Assa 
mese , 

Oriya, 
Bengali, ver 
cions.) 


B / 72662 


197 . 00 


Do . 


Do. 


75561 


“ Indian News Re 

view No. 1347" 
(Northern Edition ) 
( 35mm .) (Nowsreel) 


7 - 8 -74 


(Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi, 
Kashmiri, Pun 
jabi, Urdu ver 
sions.) 


B /26735 


137 . 16 

( 1) 


75562 


P . E . 


" Budget " (Hindi) 

(Marathi) (35mm .) 
(Documentary ) 


54 . 


The Dir. General Tho Dir, General 
of Information & of Information & - 
Public Relation , Public Relation , 
Govt. of Maha- Govt. of Maha 
rashtra , 

rashtra , 


7 -8 -74 


B / 72609 


Advertis- 


U 
75563 


Not P . E . 


“ Traditional 

crafts in 
Living" 
(Colour) 
( Japan ) 


Handi- 
Modern 
(English ) 
(16mm .) 


310 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Consulate General M . O . S . 
of Japan , 

ing Inc . 
Bombay - 26 . 


8 -8 -74 


U 


3172887 


B / 72587 


75564 


P . E . 


355 -48 

( 1) 


" The Heritago of 

Operating Room 
D " (English ) (Co 
lour) (16mm .) 
(U .S .A .) 


Parkc Davis (India ) M /s , Parke Davis . 

Ltd ., Saki Naga , 
Bombay- 72 . 


8 - 8 -74 


B / 72588 


305 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Parko Davis. 


U 
15565 


P . E . 


" Mr. Galem Comes 

to Town " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


8 -8 -74 


U 


B /72604 


242 . 00 

(2 ) 


" Sentinels of Power” 

(English ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) 


AMA Private Limited , AMA Private Limited, 

Bombay - 1. 


755566 


Not P. E . 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


2272 

- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) (Part III-- SEC . 4 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


-- - 


- - 


- - 


- -- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


} 


5 


7 


- - 


- - 


B / 72558 


271 . 00 


75567 


Not P . E . 


" The Death Rally " 

(Raliulmortii ) 
Music only ) 
(Colour) ( 35mm .) 
(Romania ). 


4 

- - - - - - 
National Education Rumunia Films. 

& Information 
Films Ltd ., 
National House , 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay , 


8 - 8 - 74 


B /72624 


362 . 09 


Do . 


" Veer Bhagatsingh " 

(Hindi) ( 16min .) 


U 
75568 


P . E . 


(3 ) 


National Exlucation 

& Information & 
Filin Ltd . 


- 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72539 


162 .00 

( 1 ) 


Romania Films, 


75569 


Not P . E . 


“ The Punished Torm 

Cat" (Motanul 
Pede Psit) (Music 
only ) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) (Romania .) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72546 


262 . 00 

( 1 ) 


75570 


P . E . 


" Thank you Mihacla " 

(Multumec Mihacla ) 
(Music only) (Co 
lour) ( 35mm .) 
(Romania ). 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 
75571 


B /72545 


P . E . 


“ Mihaela " (Music 

only (Colour) 
(35mm .) ( Romania ) 


228 . 00 

( 1) 


8 - 8 - 74 


TI 


B /72544 


75572 


287 . 00 

(1) 


Not P . E . 


“ Tom Cat In The 

Casmos" (Motanul 
in Cosmos ) (Music 
only ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Romania ) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 
75573 


B /72540 


200 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Not P . E . 


ia 


" Thief of The Cir- 

cus " (Hoatadeja 
Cire ) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35min . ) 
(Romania ) 


8 - 8 -74 


B / 72509 


564 . 00 

(1) 


75574 


P . E . 


" Naica And The 

Stork " (Naic $ i 
barza ) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35mm . ) 
(Romania ) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72552 


271 .00 

( 1) 


75575 


" The Diamond " 

(Diamantul) (Music 
only ) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) (Romania ) 


P . E . 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72516 


306 .00 


75576 


P . E . 


" Convergency " 

(Convergente ) 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Romania ) 


(1) 


8 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72658 


With 

mark . 


triangle 


* 5 Rifles" (Hindi) 3911 : 37 Delux Productions, Delux Productions 75577 
(Colour) (35mm .) (15 ) (India ) 5 - J Near (India ) 5 - J Naaz ---- 

Naaz Bius , 

Building Bombay-4 . 9 -8 - 74 

Bombay- 4 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length ; 3925 - 78m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No . 
1. II : Delete the paintings of women in indecent poses when the Sanyasi 

(Mama in disguise ) sings a song in praise of women , . . . . 5 - 29m . 

(Replaced with approved shots : 5 . 29m .) 
2. IV : Delete the kiss between Rajkumari and Rakesh . .. . . . 1 . 98m . 
3. IV : Reduce the beating up of the Rajkumari by Khottu . . . . . 0 .91m . 

(Length relained : 0 .91m .) 


2273 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 5 


- 


- 


- 


4 


PART III-- - Sec . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 
-- _ - - - - - - -- 

-- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - 
- - - - 

5 

6 
- - -- - - - - - - 
4 . VIJI : Delete tho following dialogue of Katari along with her indecent ges 
ture. " Vishwas na ho to dactari karva lo " . , , , , , 

2 -33m . 
5 . X : Delete the shot of bare breasted girls standing around 2 swimming pool 4. 18 
6. XI : From the mujra sequence, of Mama disguised as a dancing girl, 

delete ; 
(1) the vicw of police officer shaving the leg of the dancer : 

5 . 29m . 
(Replaced with approved shots : 5 .29ın . ) 
( li) the view of dancer sitting astride the police officer and the officer 
enjoying it , and 

am 
(Keplaced with Approved shots : 3 . 37.00 
( iii) the view of the dancer (Mami in disguise ) bcing stripped by the 

police Officer , and the dialoguo " joban to sara anpko hrath mo rah 
gaya hai" . Ah kya hulchulmachhegi" . 

. 

. , 4 . 981 
(Roplaced with approved shots : 1 . 80n1.) 
7 . XI : In the bath tub scenç, delete the expression of pleasure on the face of 

Khottu s wifo when Mama is under her in the tub , and delete the words 

" mcra pet phi kharab hai" with reference to the bubbles in the water. 1 -83m . 
8 . XII : Delete the reſeronces to pisalı in the dialogue of Mama, 

( Deleted sound only ) . 
Length of deletions : 30 .16m . 
Length of approved replacement : 15 .75m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will he 3911 - 37m . in 15 reels. 

INDORSEML’NT UNDER RULE 34 
B /72656 
Film : " A Wedding At The Oberoi Sheraton " (English ) 
U - Cortificate No. 75498 of 29-7 -1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour, 
The length of tho film remains unchanged , 

This certificato was endorsed on 5th August, 1974 . 
B /68767 
Film : A Climate Of Health " ( English ) 
U -Certificate No. 72314 of 7- 4 -1973. 

Reel I & II : Deleted various shots : 81 -63m . 
Acmal length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 357 . 28m . 
This certificato was endorsed on 5th August, 1974 . 


B / 72358 - 60 
Film : " Chidiyagarh Ki Sair” ( -Tindi) 
U -Ceit. No . 75151 of 12 -6 - 1974 

Deleted various shots : 3 .76m . 
Added various shots : 3 .76m . 
The length of the film remains umchangel. 
This certificate was endorsed on 7th August, 1974 . 


C /8071 


P . E . 


Bharat Bonam Aus - 546 .81 

tralia – Davis Cup ( 2 ) 
Zonal Final- 1974 
(Bengali) (35mm .) India 


Aparajita Films, Calcutta 
102 , S , P . Mukher 
jee Rd ., Cal- 26 . 


U 
Dept. of Informa- 73472 
tion & Public - - - - - - 
Relations, 

6 - 8 - 74 
Govt. of W . Bengal. 


C /80611 


308 .00 (1 ) 


73473 


Beginning Of Lifo 

( English ) (Colour ) 
(16mm .) Japan . 


Cinc Science Co ., Ltd ., 

JAPAN 


P . E . 


Orgunon ( 1) Ltd . 
38 , Chowringhee Rd , 

Calcutta - 1 . 


6 - 8 - 74 


11 


C /8069 


Sana Leibak Mani- 670 - 56 
pur (Documentary ) (3 ) 
(Manupuri) (Colour ) 
( 35mm . ) India , 


A . Syam Sharma, 
|Mapibut , 


73474 


Publicity Dept., 

Govt. ofManipur . 


7 -8 - 74 


U 


M /8817 


398342 

(16 ) 


Idayam Parkirathu 

( Tamil ) ( 35mm .) 
B & W . India 


Udaya Arts , 

Madras. 


67667 


With cuts . 


Udiya Arts , 

Madras. 


7 -8 - 74 

- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - 


2274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) (Part III — SEC. 4 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


= - =SSE 


4 . 25 


3 . 34 
0 . 91 


Endorsement on Certificate No. 67667 - U dated 7th August 1974 – ssued to the film 
Idayam Parkirathu ( Tamil). 
Length applied . 4075 .01 Mts . 

Cuts 
1 . Reel 2 - - Delete Paramasivam s Toferonce to Black & Red colour wherever It 

occurs in tho dialogue with the second -hand car dealers . 
2 . Reel 3 --- Delete shot of night-club dancer s pelvis jerks, holding snako in hand 

Overhead , 
3. Reel ( Delete the action of Nihesh unhooking Gesta has blousç in bullock cart . . 
4 . Reel 8 - Delete Bahadur s action of closing the drawer on Stella s fingers , stamp 

ing her , pushing her down the stairs , strangling and drowning her. . 
5 . Reel 11 - Delete action of Bahadur s crushing Mahesh with his leg on his neck . . 
6 . Reel 12 - Delete word of Parumasivam " Arasiyalvadi" referring to the rowdics . 
7. Ree 14 -- Delere top - angle shot of Leela and Mahesh , her breast prominent in bed , 
8. Reel 14 – Delele action of Mahesh caressing Lcela s bare back with hismouth . . . 
9 . Reel 14Delete shot of Lecla lying over his lup with parted legs. . . . 
10 , Reel 14 - Delete shot of Mahesh throught Leela s legs, astride in foreground . . 
11. Reel 15 --Reduce torture of Mahesh to a suggestion. (Retained 3·04 ). . . 

Total , , , 


36 .87 
8 .83 
3 . 95 
5 . 47 
3 . 34 
12 -15 

3 . 34 
9 .14 
91 . 59 


Actual length of the film will be - - 3983 .42 Mts . in 16 Reels . 


M /8802 & 03 


30 .48 (1 ) 


"Sunflowor 

(English 
(Colour) 
India . 


& Hindi) 

( 35mm .) 


Ogilvy Benson & 
Mather ( P ) Ltd . 
Madras . 


Ogilvy Benson & 

Mulher (P ) Ltd ., 
Madras . 


U 
67668 
- 
7 -8 - 74 


- 


A 


M /8816 


3304 


"Vilukapatta Kani 

(Malayalam ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
India . 


3866 - 38 

(16 ) 


Shrikant & Shrikant Shrikant & Shrikant 
Films ( P ) Ltd ., 

Films ( P ) Ltd ., 
Madras. 

Madras . 


7 -8 - 74 


U 


M /8830 " Silver Jubileo of 548 - 64 Vikram Productions, Vikram Productions, 67669 
Vikram Productions ( 2) 

Madras. 

Madras , 
(Kannada ) (Partly 

8 - 8 - 74 
colour) (35mm .) 

India . 
PARTICULARS OF THE FILMS CERTIFIĘD OR REFUSED CERTIFICATION BY THE CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM 
CENSORS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 17 TH AUGUST, 1974 
BOMBAY 

U 
B / 72455 “ Resham Ki Dori" 3981 . 91 Modern Pictures , T . C . Dewan , 

75578 With triangle 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (10 ) 238 Famous Cino 238 -Famous Cino - 

mark , 
( 35mm .) 

Bldg., Mahalaxmi, Bldg., Mahalaxmi, 12 - 8 - 74 
Bombay - 11. 

Bombay -11 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Longth : 3900 -80 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 . I Reduce the fight in jail and the shot of wardon s head boing pushed into 
the oven by Sher Singh . . 

2 - 74m . 
(Length retained : 10 - 37m .) 
2. VI : Delete hard hitting shots on tho stomach and chin in the scene of horo 

beating the Manager s hireling . 

( Deleted sound only ) 
3. XII : Reduce the fight between Vinod and Ajit Singh . . . . . 3. 35m . 

(Length rotained : 13 .90m .) 
4 . XV : Reduce the fight betweon the horo and Dinesh and his goondas by delet 
ing hard hitting shots. , 

, 12 . 80m . 
(Length retained ; 48 .46m .) 
Length of deletions : 18 .89m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be — 3981 . 91m . in 16 Reels . 


B / 72644 


75579 


“ Sokhnt Ek Pan 

Ghadi Gomausho 
Nahi" (Gujarati) 
(35mm ) (Advt.) 


30 . 48 

( 1) 


Jyoti G . Thakur. 


Film Media , 

Bombay . 


12 - 8 - 74 


PART III- _ SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2275 


- 


-- 


TIL 


- 


- - - - 

- - - 


- 
- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


-- 


- 


B /72641 


Do . 


75580 


30 :48 

( 1) 


" Jeevan Sukhhmay 

Bani Shake Che" 
(Gujarati) (35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


12 - 8 - 74 


B / 72638 


30 - 48 


Do. 


U 
75581 


Do . 


" Khushiyan Hi 

Khushiyan " (Hindi) 
(35mm ) (Adyt.) 


12 - 8 - 74 


B / 72567 


U 
75582 


106 -68 

( 1 ) 


" Trailer of Jai Shri 

Ram Yane Hanu - 
man Vijay " 
(Gujarati) (35mm .) 
(Colour) 


Basant Pictures, 

136 -Chamarbaug 
Road , Bombay - 12 . 


Basant Pictures , 

136 -Chamarbaug 
Road , Bombay - 12 . 


13 - 8 - 74 


B /72881 


U 
75583 


" Trailer of Trimurti" 

(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) 


91 . 94 
( 1) 


M /s , Kron Produc - Shri Rajender Bhatia , 

tions, 217 - Famous Bombay - 11 . 
Cine Bldg ., 
Bombay -11. 


13 - 8 - 74 


B / 71900 


U 
75584 

- 
13 - 8 - 74 


with 
mark . 


triangle 


- 


" Pain Relief " 30 . 48 Bhim Sain , 

Bhim Sain , 
(Marathi) (Colour) 

Climb Films, 

Bombay - 34 . 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 

22 -Arun Chambers , 

Tardeo , Bombay - 34 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 48m . 

Delete the word " Keval" from the sentence " ya kherlj keval Soridon , hoya keval 801 l 
don madhhech yodana nahishya karanyachiShakti aaho" 
(Deleted sound only ) 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 


B / 71899 


75585 


with 


triangle 


“ Saridon Vs Pain " 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 -48 

( 1) 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22-Arun Chambers, 
Tardeo , Bombay - 34 , 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
Bombay - 34 . 


mark 


13 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 .48m . 

Deleted the word “ Sirf ” from the sentence " sirf saridon - sirf saridon mon hi dard 
dur karneki shakti hai" 
(Deleted sound only ) 
Length of the film remains unchanged . 


U 


B / 71898 


triangle 


" The Great Relicver 

(English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 .48 

( 1 ) 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22- Arun Chambers, 
Tardeo , Bombay- 34 . 


With 

mark . 


Bhim Sain , 

Climb Films, 
22 -Arun Chambers , 
Tardeo , Bombay -34. 


75586 

- 
13 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 30 .48m . 

Delete the word only from the sontence " Moreover only Saridon , I repeat only 
Saridon has the power to reliovo pain 
(Deleted sound only ) 


U 
75587 


B / 72636 


" Har Pul Khushi 

Ka Pul" (Hindi) 
(35mm .) 
(Advertisement) 


30 . 48 

(1 ) 


Film Media , 

47- Laxmi Insurance 
Bldg., Bombay -1 . 


Mr. Jyoti G . Thakur. 

Film Media , 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 
75588 


B / 72642 


30 - 48 

( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


" Jeeynath Anand 

Asu Shaktho " 
(Marathi) 
(Advertisement) 
(35mm .) 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 
75589 


B /72643 


30 . 48 


Do. 


Do . 


" Dhoke Dhukheuar 

Avhak ” (Marathi) 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 


13 - 8 -74 


- - 


-- - - - -- 


- 


- - 


- -- - me 


18 – 369GI/75 


2276 
- - - -- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART III — _ SEC . 4 

- - - - - - . - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


A 


= = - - 


- - - 


= = 

- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


B /72640 


Do. 


U 
75590 


" Anandajc Shun 

Vaya Galvu Naka " 
(Marathi) (35mm . ) 
(Advt.) 


30 -48 

(1) 


13 -8 - 74 


U 


B / 72637 


" Suhane Pul” (Hindi) 

(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 .48 


Do . 


75591 


13 - 8 -74 


B / 72639 


Do. 


U 
75592 


" Muthana Dukhawano 30 . 48 

Ekmatra Ilaz " (1 ) 
(Gujarati) (35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


13 - 8 - 74 


B / 72648 


587 . 00 


Sovexportfilm . 


U 
75593 


Soyuzmulfilm 

Production , 


Not P .E, 


“ The Bremen 
Musician Again " 
(English ) ( Sov 
colour ) (35mm .) 
(USSR ) 


14 - 8 -74 


B / 72690 


" His Name Is Today " 

( English ) (35mni.) 
(Documentary ) 


473 .00 

( 2 ) 


P . E . 


Tho Director General 

of Information 
& Public Rolation 
Govt . of Maha 
Tashtra . 


The Director General 75594 

of Information - - - - 
& Public Relation 14 - 8 -74 
Govt. of Maha 
rashtra . 


B /72684 


263 .00 

( 1) 


75595 


" Indian News Re- 

view No, 1348 " 
( Eastern Edition ) 
( 35mm .) (Newsroel) 


Films Division 
Govt. of India 
24 -Peddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


Filins Division 
Govt. of India 
24 -Peddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 8 - 74 


(Valid for 

lish , 
Bengali, 
meso , & 
versions ) 


Eng 
Hindi, 
Assa 
Urdu 


B /72683 


216 .00 

(1) 


Do. 


Do. 


U 
75596 


" Indian News Re- 

view No . 1348 " 
( 35mm .) (Newsreel) 


14 - 8 - 74 


(Valid for Eng 

lish , Hindi, 
Gujarati, Tamil, 
Telugu , Kan 
nada , Mala 
yalam , Punjabi, 
Kashmiri , Ur 
du & Sindhi 
versions.) 


B / 72608 


triangle 


Mts. 


“ Ujala Hi Ujala " 3701 -81 S . M . Sagur 

S . M . Sagar 

75597 
(Hindi) (Colour) ( 15 ) Usmanabag Bldg . Adhikar Inter 

- With 
(35min .) 9 -Almaida Road national 

14 - 8 - 74 mark . 
Bandra Bombay - 50 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Lenght : 3731.00 m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. VIII : Delete the view of kiys between saraswati and Rupa in the garden at 
the end of the song . 

. . . . . 5 . 17m . 
(Replaced with approved Shots : 0 - 56m .) 
2 . IX : Reduce the fight between Vikram and the goondas particularly deleting 
the hard punchos on face and stomach . . 

7 .62m . 
(length retained : 40 . 58ni.) 
3. X : During the picturisation of the song " Main ne to yeh jaana . . . . . 

delete one shot completely and in the other shot reduce to once of 
rubbing of nose between Anuradha and Vikram . 

• 

• 158m. 
(Replaced with Approved shots : 1 -58m . ) 
4 . XV : Reduce the light between the two parties lod by Vikram and Ajit par 

ticularly deleting all hard punches on stomach and face and also other 
gruesomo yiguals, Reduce the hitting of Geeta in the running car . . 16 . 96m . 
(Length retained : 92 - 581 .) 
Length of deletlons ; 31 - 33m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 . 14m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterallons will be : 3701 .81m . 

in 15 reels . 
- 

- - - - -- - - 

- 


orxandaana once of 


I - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART III — SEC. 4] 


"THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2277 


- 


- - -- 


-- - - - 


- 


- -- 


-- = 


- - - - 


= 


= 


- - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


U 


B / 72695 


" Indian Nows Rc- 

view No. 1349 - A " 
(English & Hindi) 
( 35mm .) 


200 - 55m 

( 1) 


75598 


Films Division 
Govt. of India 
24 - Peddar Koud 
Bombay - 26 . 


Films Division 
Govt. of India 
24 - Pcddar Road 
Bombay - 26 . 


14 - 8 - 75 


B /66361 


U 
75599 

- - - 
14 - 8 - 74 


with 

mark . 


trianglo 


" Chhote Sarkaar " 3818 . 10 Pinky Films 

Bany Talwar 
(Hindi) (Colour ) (14 ) Famous Cinc Bldg. Pinky Films, 
(35min .) 

Bombay - 11 . 

Bombay - 11 . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3829 . 98m . 
Cut Reel 
No . No. 
1. VI : Delete reloronco to the word " Achhut" . . 

. . . 
2 . VII : From the rape scene delete the view of Radhika seen atop Moti and their 
reflection in the mirror abovo . 

. . . . . 
X : Towards the und of the song " Tere chehorepar . . . . . . " delete the view of 

RAJA in close physical proximity with Radhika with the suggestion of 
kiss in the back view , 

. . . . . 
Length of deletlons ; 11 .88m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3818 .10m . 
In 14 reels . 


6 . 10m . 


4 . 261 . 


1 . 52m . 


B / 71630 


75600 


" Youth Parliament" 

(English ) ( 35ınm .) 
(Dicumentary ) 


356 .00 

(2 ) 


Films Division , 
Govt. of India , 
24 -Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


Filns Division , 
Govt . of India , 
24 -Peddar Road , 
Bombay- 26 . 


14 -8 - 74 


U 


B / 72094 


( 12) 


With 
Mark 


trianglo 


" Aashiana " (Hindi) 3240 - 32 D . Komal, M /s Dov D . Komal, M / s. Dey 75801 
(Colour ) (35mm .) 

Kula Internation1 - Kala Intornutional. - 
DA ), Victoria Bldg., 

14 - 8 - 74 
Bombay -. 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3253-32m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1. IV i Delete thg . cleronco to « min drinking in bir bəing an M . P . 

( Deleted sound only ) 
2 . V : Reduce tlie fight belween Suniland the gang by deleting hard hitting 
shots . 

• 3 .00m . 
(Longth retained : 28 .96m .) . 
3. VII : In the fight between Sunil and Ramesh and again between Sunil and 
Abdulla deleting the hard hitting shots . . . . . 

. 4 . 50m . 
XI : Delete the shot of Sunil indecorously dancing over Sonia when she is 
lying between his legs. . 

4 . 27m . 
5 . XI : In the scono when Sunil and Sonia are trying to dry their clothes after 
bọing drenched in water delete indocorous shots. 

. . . . 5 . 50m . 
Length of deletions : 17 . 27m . 
Length of approved replacement : 4 . 27m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3240 -32m 
in 12 reels . 


B / 72692 


“ Tawa " (Hindi) 

( 35mm .) 
( Documentary ) 


330 . 71 

( 1) 


- 


P . E . 


U 
S . G . Khirwadkar , R . $ . Dikshit, 75802 

Asstt. Director Director Publicity -- 
Int. & Public & Information , 

14 - 8 -75 
Department 

Madhya Pradosh . 
Madhya Pradesh , 
Govt. of M . P . 
Bhopal, 


U 


B /72693 


75803 


186 . 00 
(2 ) 


" Samruddinu Sopin " 

(Gujarati) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Docu 
mentary) 


National Institute National Institute 
of Design 

of Design Paldi, 
Ahmedabad . 

Ahmedabad . 


14 - 8 - 74 


2278 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) PART III — SEC . 4 
= - - ---- - Sw. - - - - 

- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 


B /72691 


88 .15 

(1 ) 


Adhikar Internationa ) 


U 
75804 


" Truller of “ Ujula 

Hi Ujala " (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 


S . M . Sagar, 
Usmanabad Bldg ., 
Bombay. 


14 - 8 - 74 


B /72686 


$ 33 . 40 

(2 ) 


Jasmine Films, 

Bombay . 


George M . Reid . 8 


U 
75805 


" Beloved Inyadors 

-- - The Ventures " 
(Shorter Version ) 
(English ) (35ınm .) 
(Cinemascopo) 


14 - 8 - 74 


B /72646 


83 - 00 

( 1 ) 


Sovexportfilm , 

Bombay- 5 . 


Mogilm Studio , 


U 
75806 


“ Trailer of EK Thi 
Rajkumari" 
(Hindi) ( 35mm .) 
(Sovcolour) (USSR ) 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72691 


269 .00 

( 1) 


Do. 


75807 


Central Popular 

Scienco Film Studio . - 


" Alaid - Tho Fiery 

Crater (Alaid 
Ogonyikrater ) 
(Englsh ) (Sovo 
colour) ( 35nim .) 
(USSR ) 


16 - 8 - 74 


B / 72613- A 


83 .00 

(1) 


Do. 


Mosfilm Studio . 


Mosalen Studio . 


75808 


75808 


" Trailer of Ek Je 

Chhil Rajkumari" 
( Bongali ) (Sov 
colour ) (35mm .) 
(USSR .) 


16 -8 - 74 


B / 72650 


Do . 


Kier Popular- 

Scienco FUm Studio . - 


U 
75809 


- 


P . E . 


16 - 8 -74 


" A Masquerade Of 525 .00 
Hexaponds" 

( 2 ) 
(Magkared 
( Shostinogikh ) 
(English ) 
colour) (35mm .) 
(USSR .) 


B /72649 


Do. 


“ Perseus" (Persy) 

(English ) ( Sov- 
colour) (35mm .) 


559 .00 

(2 ) 


SoyuzmultAli 

Production . 


75810 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72647 


Do . 


541 .00 

( 2 ) 


Kiov Popular Scieace 

Film Studio . 


U 
75811 


16 - 8 - 74 


" Looking For De- 

cision " (Shto 
Takoo ? Shto 
Dolaet ? Ishy 
Roshnie ) (English ) 
(Sovcolour) (35mm .) 


B / 72613 


U 
75812 


" Ek Jo Chhil Ruj 

kumari” ( 35mm .) 
( Bengali) (Sov 
colour ) (USSR .) 


3886 .00 

( 15 ) 


Mosfilin Studio . 


Sovexportfilm , 

Bombay- s . 


16 - 8 -74 


B / 72612 


315 - 77 

(1 ) 


" Down To Earth — 

Part IV " (The 
Fourth Revolution ) 
( English ) (Colour ) 
(35mm ) (Docu 
meatary) 


P . E . 


Rammohan 
Rammohan Bio 

graphic , Sir Bhal- 
chandra Rd , Dadar, 
Bombay- 14 . 


U 
Rammohan Bio - 75813 

graphics, Sir Bhal. — + 
chandra Road , 

16 - 8 -74 
Dadar, Bombay- 14 , 


B /72569 


" Forover Free (Eng- 

lish ) ( 16mm .) 
(USA ) 


300 . 00 

( 1) 


78814 


- 


P . E , 


Under Sacretary , Mr. Jammings Hom . 
Ministry of Ship mor Jam Handy — 
ping and Transport Organisation . 
I. W . 1 . Direc 
torato, Now Delhi. 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72342 


" The Extru. Rich " 

( Shampoo ) (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) 
(Advi.) (35mm .) 


30 .48 

( 1) 


U 
Unit 3 MM , Kala Unit 3 MM . Kala 75815 

Bhavan Mathew Bhuvan Mathew – 
Road, Bombay -4 . Road, Bombay - 4, 16 -8 -74 


PART III — Sec . 4 ] 

= 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 2279 
- = - = = - 

- - - - 

- -- - 


4 


B / 72666 


" Louis I. Khan : 

Architocts " ( Eng 
lish ) (Colour) 
(16mm .) (USA ) 


309 - 37 

(1) 


United States Infor - Paul Falkenbery & 
mation Service . 

Huns Namuth . 


75816 


P . E . 


16 - 8 - 74 


B / 72670 


" Momphiş ” (English ) 

(Colour) ( 16mm .) 
(USA .) 


159 -41 

( 1) 


U 
75817 


United States Infor. Memphis Chamber 
mation Service . 

of Commerce . 


- Not P .E . 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72677 


" Mumbajni Sahegah 

(Gujarati) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 


130 - 48 

(1 ) 


Film Media , 
47-Laxıní Insurance 
Bldg., Sir P . M . 
Road, Bombay- 1. 


Film Media , 

75818 
47- Laxmi Insurance - - 
Bldg., Sir P . M . 16 - 8 -74 
Road , Bombay -1 . 

U 
Do. 

75819 


B /72675 


Do. 


Bombaj Ki Bahon - 
men " (Hindi) ( Co . 
lour) (35mm .) 
(Advt.) 


30 . 48 

(1) 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72678 


75820 


" Happy Holiday in 

Bombay " ( Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 - 48 

( 1) 


16 - 8 -74 


B /72676 


30 . 48 


75821 


“ Mimbaichi Sohala " 

(Marathi) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


16 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72319 


“ Ana hut " (Hindi) 

(35mm .) 


544 . 63 

(2 ) 


Shri Girish Karnard , Film & Telovision 
Director Film & Instituto of India , 
Television Insti 
tute of (ndia , Poona . 


75822 

- Not P . E . 
16 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72663 


" Alitalia " ( English 
(Colour ) (35min .) 


30 - 48 

( 1 ) 


M /s . Alitalia , 


75823 


M /s . Alitalia , 
Industrial Assu 
ranco Bldg., 
Ground Floor, 
Opp . Charchgate 
Station , Bombay- 1 . 


16-8-74 


16 - 8 - 74 


B / 72594 


U 
75824 


" Lahınina " (English ) 

(Colour) (35mm .) 


30 .48 

(1 ) 


Keith Allams, 
( M / s. Kappa). 
Bombay - 50 . 


depe 


opas. 


75824 


Keith Allams, 

M /s . Kappa , 
3 -Carl- In Apart 
ments Water Field 
Road, Ext. 
Bombay - 50 . 


76-8-74 


16 - 8 - 74 


B /72669 


323 .09 

(1 ) 


75825 


" The Magic of Walt 

Disney World " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (USA ) 


United States In - Walt Disney Films. 

formation Servico . 


P.E . 


16- 8 - 74 


B /72562 


U 
75826 


" Pesters" (No dia 

logue, No . Com - 
mcntary (Colour 
( 35mm .) (Romania ) 


266 .00 

( 1) 


P . E . 


National Education Romania Films. 

Information 
Filins Ltd ., 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay . 


17 - 8 - 74 


B /72548 


284 . 00 

( 1) 


Do . 


P . E . 


" Flori Ponutru 
Mihaela " (No 
Commentary & 
dialogue ) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Romania ) 


U 
75827 

- - 
17 - 8 -74 


National Education 

& Information 
Films Ltd , 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay . 


U 


B / 72547 


278 . 00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


“ Priotera Naastra 
Mihaela " 
(No Dialogue or 
Commentary ) 
(Colour) (35mm ) 
(Romania ) 


75828 

— 
17 - 8 - 74 


P . E . 


2280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897 ) (PART III SEC , 4 

= = = - - - - - - - - - - -- = = - = = - = = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = = = 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - ---- - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


U 


B /72564 


vest " 


268 .00 

( 1) 


268- 00 


Do. 


Do . 


75829 


" Fala din Far West" 

(No dialogloor 
Commentary ) (Co 
lour ) ( 35mm . ) 
(Romania ) . 


75829 

- 
17 - 8 -74 


P . E . 


B /72553 


250 .00 

( 1 ) 


Do. 


U 
75830 

- 
17 - 8 -74 


" Jupiter Has to bo 

Saved " (Nupiter 
Trebuio Salvat) 
(Music only ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


Not P . E . 


B / 72561 


265 .00 


Romania Films, 


75831 


" Far West" (Music 
Only ) (Colour) 
(35mm .) (Romania .) 


National leducation 

& Information 
Films Ltd ., 
Tulloch Road , 
Bombay. 


- 
17 - 8 - 74 


Not P . E . 


B / 72566 


Do . 


340 -00 

( 1) 


" Sherill s Sunday " 

(Duminica Seri- 
fului) (Music only ) 
(Colour) (35mm .) 
(Romania ) 


75832 

- - 
17 - 8 -74 


Not P . E . 


B /72551 


222 . 00 

( 1 ) 


" Penelo Nogre " (No 

dialoguo or Com - 
montary (Colour ) 
(35ınm .) (Romania ) 


75833 

- Not P .E . 
17 -8 - 74 


B /72549 


" Adventure " (No 

dialogue or Com 
mentary ) (Colour ) 
( 35min .) (Romania ) 


265 .00 

(1) 


U 
75834 

- 
17 -8 -74 


Not P. E . 


B / 72550 


250 . 00 

(1 ) 


" Intilnirea " (No 

dialogue or Com - 
mentary (Colour) 
(35mm . ) (Romania ) . 


U 
75835 

— Not P . E . 
17 - 8 -74 


IT 


B /72214 


“ Man The Polluter ” 

(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16mm .) (Canada ) 


610 -08 

(2 ) 


National Film Board 

of Canada . 


75836 

- - - 
17 - 8 - 74 


P . E . 


B /69591 


triangle 


Metres 


1. 


" Manzilein Aur Bhi 3092 - 19 Cine Guild , 

R . H . Jain & Johny 3233 
Hain " (Hindi) 

( 12 ) 11 - Jain Chambers, Baxi, Jain Cham - - - - - - With 
(Colour ) ( 35mm .) 

Bombay -50 . 

bers, Bombay- 50 . 13 - 8 - 74 mark . 
Endorsement : 
Original Length : 3138 . 15m . 
Cut Reel 

Merres 
No. No . 

: Tho violence in the film needs toning down , but not the viciousness of 
tho two characters who are on the track of Uday and Gulshan : 
(1) The scenes whiorc Uday is being tortured by his accomplices to 

know tho whoreabouts of the loot he has hidden and is being 
kicked repeatedly should bo reduced to miniinum , a few frams 
sliould be retained for the logic of tho story . , . . 5 .79m . 

(Length retained : 1 . 22m .) 
VII : (II) The scene depicting the face of doad body of Uday s mother in his 
dream should be deleted . . 

. 

, 4 . 57n . 
X : ( III) The scenç depicting tho face of dead bodies after shooting by 

Uday at stone quarry should be deleted . . . . . 305m . 
XI : (iv ) The scene depicting Shanti s torture where she is desporately 

thiraty and drinking dụst in her hands should be reduced to the 
minimum and only a few frames should be retained for con 
necting the story . 

. . . . 3 06m . 
(Length retained : 3 .01m .) 
viu ; (v ) The sound effect should be toned down throughout the film 
wherever nock violence has been depicted . 

1 .22m . 


PART III - SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2281 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


- -- 


-- - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - -- - - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


2 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


2 . 


IV 


5 . 50m . 


: The scene where Uday s blind old mother tortured and terrorised by a 

burning paper for a long time to get her confession regarding Uday s 
whçrçabouts should be toned down . . 

. . 
(Length retainęd : 11 . 27ın .) 
: The scene depicting torturing a caged parrct with a turning match 
stick should be reduced 

(Length rctained : 1 . 52) 
: Tho love scene particularly the repetition of those scenes by way of 

flashbacks of the girl, should be out to the minimum required for the 
logic of the story . 

. . . , 
(Length retainel : 3 . 89m .) 


4 . 59 m . 


4 . 


X 


16 .05m . 


6 . 


III 


Curse words i, e . Sala , Suli, Kamine, Harami, Badzat, Haramzadi, and 
Chayani- Chhar , should be reduced to the minimum . 

( Deleted sound only ). 
: The shot of the heroine s uncler clothes on the clothes -line needs 

excisions : . . . . . . . . . . 
( Length of deletions : 45 . 96m .) 
Actual length of the film after the vforesaid deletions will be ; 
3092. 19m in 12 reels. 


2 : 13m . 


B /72655 


" Patthar Aur Payal" 

(Hindi) (Colour) 
( 35mm .) 


3953 .25 
( 16) 


3234 


K . P . S . Films, 
Air Conditioned 
Market, Tardeo , 
Bombay - 34 . 


K . P . Șingh & 
NP. Singh . 


With triangle mark , 


13 -8 - 74 


8 .54m . 


1 .19m . 


11 . 98m . 


0 .39m . 


2 - 83m . 


3 .48m , 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 4009 -45m . 
Cut Reel 
No. No. 
1 . VI ; (1) Reduce considerably the fight between Sarju and Ranjit by 
deleting hard hits on stomach and face . , , 

, 
(Length retained ; 16 . 26m . ) 
(ii) Reduce pressing of Sarju s neck by Ranjit under his foot. . . 

(Length retained : 2 .4401. ) 
( ii ) Reduce the whipping of Ranjit in the clocoit s den . . . 

(Length retained : 16 .46m . ) 
2 . VII : Reduce considerably the violence in the fight betwoen Ranjit and Sarju , 

by deleting gruesome visuals. . . . . . . . . 

(Length retained : 6 . 71in .) 
3 . XII : (1) From the cabaret item , reclnce to minimum the front view of the 

dancer with back light and delete the low angle shot of the dancer 
in an indecent postnre when she turns her back to the camera . , 
( Deleted completely ) 

(Replacca with approved shots ; 2 83m .) 
(11) Reduce the fight betweon Ranjit and Shçkhar and his men . . 

(Length retained : 4115m . ) 
4 . XIV : Reduce the shot of Munshi with dagger struck on his chest. 

- 
(Length retained : 0 .56m . ) 
5 . XV : (1) Reduce the violence in the fight betwocn Sarju and Ranjit. , 

(Length retained : 1920in . ) 
( II ) Reduce considerably the torture of Ranjit by Vijay Narain 

Singh s men on horses , particularly the whippings, tranplings 
and dragging, 

. 
(Length retained : 18 .90m .) . 
6 . XVI : (i) Reduce to minimum the whipping of Ajit by Vijay Narain Singh 

in the jungle . 
( Length retained : 5 . 49m .) 
Reduce considerably the climax fight between Ranjit and Sarju , 
particularly deleriny hits with gun butt, hard hitting blows on 
facc and stomach ctc . , 
(Length retained : 20 .61m .) 
Deleted voluntarily in recl No . XIV : 1 . 80m . 
Length of deletions : 57 . 23m . 
Length of approved replacement : 2 . 83m 
Vol. deletions : 1 . 80m 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 
3953 25m . in 16 recl. 


0 . 74m . 


7 .01m . 


7 .411n . 


2 .91m . 


10 .75m . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


= 


- = 


- 


= 


- 


- - - 


- - 


can 


2282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART I11 _ Sec . 4 

-- - . . . - 

S S -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- 
1 2 

o 

7 

- - -- - - - - - - 
ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 
B / 72157 
Film : " Badhti Ka Naam Dadhi" (Hindi) 

U -Certificate No. 75413 of 17-7 -1974. 
Reol : 

Rool ; 

Rool : 
VI : Deleted various shots : 61 26m . X : Deleted various shots : 3 .60m . XII : Deleted various shots : 4 .60m , 
VIII : Deleted various shots : 4 -08m . XI : Deleted various shots : 5 . 5m . XIV : Deleted various shots: 3 .80m . 

IX : Deleted various shots ; 4•10m . XII ; Deleted various shots : 4 .09m . XV ; Deleted various shots : 2 .02m . 


92 .60m , 

VII : Added various shots : 91 .44m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3979 -53m . 
This certificato was endorsed on 12th August, 1974 . 
R /72494 
Film : “ Nrutyollas" (Marathi) (Colour) 
U - Certi. No , 75129 of 4 - 6 - 1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi version of the film in colour. Tho length of tho 
film remains unchangod . 

This certificate was endorsed on 13th August , 1974 . 
B /72493 
Film : " Lok Nrutya " (Gujarati) 
U - Cort. No. 95128 of 4 -6 -1974 . 

This cortificato is also valid for Hindi version of tho film in colour. The length of 
the film remains unchangod , 

This oortificato was ondorsed on 13th August, 1974 . 
B /70809 
Film : Trailer of “ Mr. Romeo " Hindi) 
U - Cort . No. 74038 of 6 - 12 - 1973 . 

Deleted various shots : 1 .83m . 
Added various shots 5 -79m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 106 .07m . 

This certicfiato was endorsed on 16th August, 1974, 
B /70579 
Film : " Dharmendra Plays Pocketmaar" 
U -Cort, No . 74793 of 13 -4-1974. 

Reol x : Deleted various shots : 34 - 44m . 
Actual length of the film after he aforesald deletions will be : 3929 : 59mi, 

This certificato was ondorsed on 16th August, 1974, 
B /72685 
Film : " Do Bhai" (Hindi) (Colour) 
U - Cert. No. 74897 of 9-5 -1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Punjabi vorsion of the film in colour. 
The length of the film romains unchangod , 
This cortificato was endorsed on 17th August, 1974 , 


CALCUTTA 


U 
73475 


C /8065 


Swarna Manjuri 

(Bengall) (35mm .) 


3787 . 14 

( 14 ) 


Com Enterpriso , 

9 , Crooket Lane, 
Calcutta - I. 


Ramesh Naidu , 

9 , Crookot Lano, 
Calcutta - 1, 


13 - 8 - 74 


U 


C /8066 


91 - 44 


(3) 


Kuka (No dialoguo , 

Song Or Com 
montary) (Colour ) 

mm .) West Ger 
many. 


Offalwagon 

163 /53 , Lake Gar 
dons, Caloutta . 


Koollor & Knappich 

Ausburg West 
Gormany , 


73476 

on P , E , 
13 - 8 - 74 


PART III — SEC, 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1397) 


2283 


mn 


M /8821 


U 
67670 


. Baata Bharatha 

(Kannada ) (Colour ) 
( 75010 .) Indian 


4651 - 24 

( 18 ) 


Vonus Mahooja Pic - Venus Maheoja Pic - 
turos, , Madras , 

turos, Madras, 


12 - 8 74 


12:8 74 


M /8801 


67671 

- 
12 - 8 .74 


With cuts , 


Mts. 
4 .56 


"Nunu ( Telugu ) 4115 . 00 [mkeyyesboc , 

Tinkcyycsboe , 
( Colour ) ( 35mm .) (17 ) Madras . 

Madras , 
Indu. 
Endorsement on certificate No . 67671 -U dated 12 -8-74 Issuled to the film Nomu (Telugu ) 
( Colour ). 
Longth applied . 4124 .00 Mts, 
Cuts 
1. Rool 5 - Trom tho song picturisation , delete tho nations of Iswar crossing his jog 

ovor Parvathi when both are lying ovor the rovolving bed . . 
2 . Roel 9- - From the song picturisation , delete (gwar carossing tho postrrior of 

Parvati. 

(Roplacod flower shot : 1 . 52). . . . . . . . . 
3 . Reol 10 - Delete the reforonce to Dr, C . R . Roddy from the dialoguo of Puliraju , 
4 . Rool 13 – From tho song toxt , delete tho words Magasiri Vedi" from the songbe 

ginning with the words " Taka Taka " (including all repetitions of tho 
samo.) 
(Roplaced aproved words). . . . . . . . . 

Total . . . 


1 .52 


4 .44 


10 - 52 


Total replacement 1 .52Mts. 
Actual length will be : 4115 .00 Mts, in 17 Reels. 


M /8593 


Talk Il up 
( English ) (Colour) 
( 16nim .) (USA ). 


109 . 72 

(1 ) 


Madras Refinerios National Safoty 
Ltd ., Madras. 

Counoll , USA , 


13.8.74 P.F. 


U 
67672 

P . E . 
13 - 8 - 74 

U 
67673 

- With outs . 
13 - 8 - 74 


M /879 ) 


Thacholi Marumagan 4383 . 93 Suchitramanjari , Suchitra Manjari, 
Chandu ? (Mala . (16) Madras . 

Madras , 
yalam ) (Colour ) 

(35mm .) India . 
Endorsement on cortificato No . 67673- U dated 13- 8 - 74 isgued to tho film Thacholi Maru 
magan Chandu (Malayalam ). 
Langth appllod . 4385 . 14 Mts , 


Mis. 


1 . 21 


Cuts. 
1. Rool 6 - Delete the close-shot oftho scorpion crawling over the bare bolly of the 
captive . 

. . 
2 , Roel 11 - - Delete the dialoguo of Chappan " Purakoy Nadannu Endoy Pazham 

Thinnadhum Pora , Mundum Azhikkano 7" . 
(Sound only _ replaced approved words.) 

Total . . . 


1.21 


Actual length of the film will be : 4383 . 93 Mts, in 16 Reels. 


M /8831 


219 . 45 

( 1) 


Anupam Movies, 
Madras. 


U 
67674 


Anupam Movies, 
Madras, 


100th Day Cele - 

bration of Yoradu 
Kanasu (Kannada ) 
(Colour ) (3 mm ) 
India , 


13- 8 - 74 


M /8795 


M18795 


Kodi Vidyalu Kuti 4335 77 
Korako (Telugu ) (18 ) 
(35mm . ) B & W . 
India . 


Panduranga Pic - 
tures, Madras , 


Smt. K . Rangamna. 
Madras 


67675 

- 
14 - 8 - 74 


With cuts , 


Kodi VidyaTLI 


Endorsement on certificato No. 67675- U dated 14 - 8 - 74 joued to the Alm 
Kuti Korako , ( Telugu ). 

Longth appllod , 4354 .05 Mts . 
19 -- 369 G1/75 


- 


EN - - 


- 


2284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [ PART III - SEO . 4 


2 


3 . 


Mrs. 


Cuts . 
Roel 7 - Irom Somu s dielloyld, delete the solence " Tana panikindu vachinar 

pudu aduti manishi buli zina kooda digulu padarli, " , referring to 
politicians, 

Total 

. . . 


18 - 28 


18 - 28 


Actual length of the film will be 4335 . 77 Metres in 18 Reels . 


M /8793 


Witli cuts , 


Inti Kodalul 

4257 . 74 Madhu Pictures, Shri P . Mallikarjuna 67676 
( Tolugu ) (35mm .) ( 17 ) Madras , 

Rao , Madras , - 
B & W ., India . 

14 - 8 - 74 
Endorsement on cortificate No . 67676 - U datod the 14 -8 - 74 issuant to the film Inti Kodalu 
(Telugu ) ( 35mm .) B & W . 
Longth applied . 4263 .21 Mts . 
Cuts. 

Mts. 
Roel 10 - Reduce to a Mash , the shot of Venu loaning ovor Janaki on bod , deleting 

the suggestive kissing . . . . 


5 . 47 


Tota ] 


5 -47 


Actual length of the film will he 4257 - 74 Mts. in 17 Reels, 


M /8826 


30 .48 (1 ) 


Film Molia , 

Bombay 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur. 


U 
67677 


Happy Life ( Tamil ) 

(colour) (35min .) 
India . 


14 - 8 -74 


U 


M /8827 


30 -48 (1 ) 


Film Modia , 

Bombay 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur 


Quick Roliof 

(Tolugu ) ( orwo 00 
lour ) (35mm .) Indla ." 


67678 


14 - 8 - 74 


M / 8828 


30 -48(1) 


Film Medja , 
Bombay , 


Shri Jyoti G . Thakur 


U 
67679 


‘ Life is Fun (Kan . 

nada ) ( orwo CO 
lour ) (35mm . ) India . 


14 - 8 - 74 


M /8820 


" Thumbolarcha ? 

(Malayalam ) 
(Eastmanoolour) 
(35mm .) Indict , 


4484 20 

(17 ) 


Fxcol Productions, 

Allorey . 


U 
67680 


Excol Productions , 

Allorey . 


16 - 8 - 74 


M /8123 


67681 


With cuts , 


17 - 8 - 74 


" Tirapati ( Tolugu ) 4200 - 00 Prasad International, Shri Veerama hononi 
(35mm .) B & W . (18 ) Bangaloro . 

Prasad 
India . 
Endorsement on Certificato No . 67681 - U datod the 17th August 1974 - issued to the film 
" Tirapathi ( Telugu ) (35mm .) B & W . 
Longth applied , 433176 Motros . 


Cuts . 

Metres 
1 . Rool 7 - Delet, the entire sequence of the Khojja (the offominate person ) taking 

Tirupathi into his house sending him into the bathroom for a bath poep 
ing through the keyhole and passionately looking at his body and at his 
dhoti scratching his own thigh getting excited standing on the bed 
listoning to the song Hun tum ekkamrame bund hain etc . until and 
upto Tirapathi running away to the road . (No objection to their meet 
ing carlier in the restaurant.) . . 

77 . 11 


2 . Reol 10 - Delete the following dialoglo of Kusal Rao : - " Swatantrain vachi 

patike samvachatalyandi. Patika samvacharallalo mana peddavallanta 
kalisi tagito tappu ledanngru " . . 


2 .89 


3. Reel 10 


Delete the following dialogue of a student in the hotel:- -" Katnale 
bharum perigi poyi qada pillalaku pellialau choyalaka road mooda 
vakilestoo vyabhichara vrittikidohadam clestunna yoo rojullo " . . 


9 . 74 


4 . Recl 11 - Delete all tho kissing sounds botwceu a man and a woman in the hotel 

alter thoy go outfield as Tirapati is watchi gag them . (Sound .) 


5 . Reel 11 - - Delete the following dialogue of Vijaya telling her paramour about her 

husband " Aadadi kavalane korika matram vuntundi. Pakkane Paduk 
quna chalanam kooda vundadu . (Replaced approved words. ) 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


PART, JIK. SEC . 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANĄ 22, 1897) 


2285 


0 .91 


5 . 78 


0 :45 


2 - 43 


6 . Reel 12 – From the song picturisalion delete Nayudu bava crossing his leg over 

Narayanamma whon both arc lying on bel. (Replaced insert Tira 

pati ) 
7 . Rcel 14 - - Delete the following dialogue of Kusal Rao to his wife : - Mogudi kosam 

Seetha emi chesindi ? Ravanasurudi daggiraku vellindi Savitri emi 

chesindi ? Yamudi daggiraku vallindi” . 
8 . Roel 14 – From the song picturisation , delete tho action of Kusal Rao opening the 

night gown and rubbing the bosom of Tirupati in a suggestivo manner 
against the words “ Choodu choodu " in the song- text. (Replaced 

previous shot 0 . 45) . . . . , 
9 . Rocl 15 – Delete Sita s sentonco “ Drapudaciki eithuguru bhartalyte , naku rojuku 

eithuguru inogullu . 
10 , Reel 15 - - Deleic the detailed sequence of Satya Ruo killing Seetha by Smothering 

her with a pillow on bed , retaining only the last shot for a suggestion , 
11. Reel 16 - Reduce considorably Tirapati hanging precariously from hotel building 

holding a bed sheet . 
12. Recl 17 – In the fighting scene, delete Tirupathi knocking the head of Salya Rao 

against the wall of the terrace , 
13 . Rccl 17. - From tho speech of Tirupathi addressing the crowd after he kills Satya 

Rao , delete the following seltcnces Dabbu kosam manishini nilu 
vuna kalchese vally doraly, Tindi leka yee kuruvule kall poyovally 
dongalu . Pillalni kooda ammukuno donga nayally doralu , Pillalku 
tindi pettaloka vishainichi champukunovally dongalu " . 


10 .66 


11 :27 


2 .74 


9 . 14 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


133 . 12 


Total replacemoot- 1 .36 Mts . 

Actual length is 4200 .00 Mts. in 18 Reels. 
Parliculars of Films Certifiod or Refused Certificate by the Central Board of Film Censors 

During the Wook ending 24th August 1975 BOMBAY 


U 


B /72801 


75837 


" Jadian Nows Review 
No, 1348 - A " (Eny 
ligh & Hindi) (35mm ) 
(News rcel) 


186 . 53( 1) Films Division , Govt. Film Division , Govt . 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - 
Road , Bombay- 26 . Road , Bombay- 26 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


B /72709 


75838 


P . E . 


" Timo" (Music Only) 

( 16 inm ). (Docu 
montary ). 


155 .45 (1 ) Gopi Gajwani, V - Q Gopi Gajwani, V - Q 

Rajnari Gardon , New Rajnari Garden , 
Delhi- 27 . 

Now Delhi-27. 


20 - 8 -74 


U 


B /72712 


75839 


" Ultrablond Clouragil " 
(Hindi) (Colur ) 
(35mm .) Advt.) 


30 . 48 ( 1) Film Media , 47-Laxmi Film Media , 47-Laxmi 

Insuranco Building, Ingurance Building, 
Sir P . M . Road, Sir P . M . Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 

Bombay- 1. 


20 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72711 


30 .48 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


75840 


45840 


20 - 8 - 74 


" Clearasil Opens 
Drios Clours up Pip 
les " (Marathi) (Co 
lour) (35nim .) 

(Advt.). 
" Cloarasil Helps Fight 
Pimples " (Gujarati) 
( Colour) ( 35 mm .) 
(Advt.). 


U 


1 / 72710 


30 .48(1) 


Do. 


75841 


20 - 8 - 74 


B / 72409 


U 
75842 P . E . 


414 


" A Voyage of Dis 
covery " (English ) 
(35 mm .) (Documen 
tary ). 


410 .00 (2 ) Films Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 

of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 -Poddur 
Road, Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay - 26 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


B /72688 


U 
75843 Not P . E . 


" Fort Lauderdale Gift 
of the Soa " (Music 
Only) (Colour) ( 16 
min .) (USA ). 


146 . 61 (1 ) United States Infor- Fort Lauderdalo Ch - 

mation , Service , 4 . amber of Commerce . 
Now Marino Lines, 
Bombay- 20 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


B /72667 


159 :41(1) 


Do. 


U 
75844 Not P . E . 


" You ]I Love New 
Orleans" (English ) 
( Colour ) (16 mm .) 
(USA ). 


Greater Now Orleans 

Tourist & Conven 
tion Centre 


20 - 8 -74 


2286 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) ( PART III SEC . 4 


1 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


B /72671 


75845 Not P. E . 


“ The South " (English ) 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USA .). 


134 . 41 ( 1) United States Infor- Paramount Pictures 

mation Service, 4 
New Marine Lines , 
Bombay- 20 . 


20 - 8 - 74 


B / 72714 


U 
75846 


" Kalu Bulu alias Zan 
zirbar No Jadugar " 
(No dialogue or Com 
mentary ) (Colour) 
( 35 mm .). 


898 25 (4 ) Yogendrat Desai, Yogendra Desai, 

Sanskriti Bhavan, Sängkriti Bhavan, 
K . M . Road, Bombay- K . M . Roud, Bom 

bay - 7 , 


20 - 8 - 74 


B /72713 


ប 
75847 


" The Farmor Speaks " 
(Punjabi) (Colour) 
(35mm ). (Advt.) 


61 . 00 (1 ) Joevan Bhardwaj, S . C . Plute Intoraational. 

0 . 24 , Soctor , 17 - E , 
Chandigarh . 


20 - 8 -74 


B /72802 


" Indian News Reviow 

No, 1349 " (News rcel) 
(35 mm .) 


U 
221 00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt. Filmy Division , Govt. 75848 

of India , 24 -Peddar of India , 24 - Peddar - - - - 
Road , Bombay-26 . Road, Bombay -26 . 21- 8 - 74 


( Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Assa 
moso , Oriya , Pu 
njabi, Bengali 
Kaghoiri, Urdu 
Versions.) 


U 


B / 72803 


304 .00( 1) 


Do. 


Do. 


" Indiyn Nows Review 
No. 1349 " (Southorn 
Edition ) (Newsreel) 
(35 mm .) 


75849 (Valid for English , 

- Hindi, Tamil, 
21- 8 -74 Telugu , Kannada 

and Malayalam 
versions.) 


B /72682 


U 
75850 


" All Your Achs 
Gone " (Gujarati) 
(Colour) (35min .) 
(Advt .). 


30 - 18 ( 1 ) Climb Films, 22 Arun Climb Films, 22 Aura 

Chombers , Tardoo, Chembers, Tardeo , 
Bombay - 34 . 

Bombay- 34. 


21 - 8 - 74 


B / 72786 


U 
75851 Not P . E . 


" Puerto Rico A 
Pleasure to bo hero " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (USA ). 


162 . 15 ( 1) United States Inform - Tourism Development 

tion Servico , 4 - Co. 
Now Marino Linos , 
Bombay- 20 . 


21- 8 - 74 


B /72787 


310 -29(1) 


Do. 


W . H . Productions Ltd . 


75852 


P. E . 


" Vision USA 30 " 
(English ) ( Colour ) 
(16 mm .) 


21 - 8 - 74 


B /72696 


" Munuring Judicious- 

ly " (English ) (Docu 
montary ) (35 inm .) 


U 
393 . 00 (2 ) Filins Division , Govt. Films Division , Govt. 75853 P . E . 

of India 24 . Peddar of ſudja , 24 . Peddar - - 
Road , Bombay-26 , Road , Bombay- 26 . 21 - 8 -74 

U 
311 . 00 ( 1) 

Do . 

75854 P . E . 


B /72698 


Do. 


Do . 


15854 P.E. 


" Alort Always " (Eng- 
lish ) (35 mm .) (Do . 
cumentary) , 


21 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72687 


300 . 00 ( 1 ) Consulato General of Dentsu Motion Pic 

Japan , Bombay. turos Co . Ltd ., 


75855 P . E . 


" Wolfaro For The 
Pooplo - Sourch for 
harmonoy In Livings 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (Japan .). 


21- 8 -74 


B / 72784 


" Once Upon A Timo" 
(Engush ) (Colour) 
(Advt.) (35mm .) 


U 
29 . 87 ( 1) Zobaish Exhibition Zebaish Exhibition 75856 

Services Pvt . Ltd ., Service Pvt. Ltd ., - - 
Nanavati Mahalaya , Nangyati Mahalaya , 21 - 8 - 74 
Bombay - 1 . 

Bombay - 1. 


B / 72694 


75857 


With triangle mark . 


" Har Har Mahadev ? 4392 . 17 ( 17) Joy Films, Tlawala Chandrakant M , Gor, 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 

Bldg., Tribhuvan 
(35 mm .) 

Road , Bombay 4 . 


22 - 8 -74 


Endorsement 

Original Length : 4507 - 38 m . 


i 


PART III - Src. 4 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA.22 , 1897) 


2287 


Cut 
No . 


Reel 
No. 


34 . 44 m . 


4 - 57 m . 


1. TV From the Rati-Kimdev danco before the medicating Shankar , 

delete all postures of the couple which look indecorous and 
vulgar , including the shots of close embruces , body contacts , 
songuous looks , shaking bosom , lying on the ground , puting of 
male dancers legs Over female dancer ctc . . . , . 

(Replaced with approved shots - 9 . 14 m . ) 
VI In tho spens when shiv tries to catch hold of Parvati, delete all 

indocorous shots 
VII Delete all prominent shots of suggestive nudity while Parvati 

is shown tuking bath . . . . . . . . 

(Replaced with approved blow up shots : 14 -32 m .) 
XVI . Delete the entire sequence involving confrontation and fight 
& XVII betwen Ganesh and Hanuman which is not in conformity with 

accopted versions of mythology and might hurt the followers 

of Hinduism . . . . . . . . 
Length of doletions : 138 .67 m . 
Length of approved replacemont : 23 :46 ni. 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterationswill be : 4392 ·17 m . In 17 reels . 


14 -32 m . 


85 - 34 m 


B / 72716 


75858 With triangle mark 


22- 8 - 74 


22-8.74 


" Trailer of Jab And 96 48 ( 1 ) The Roop Enterprises, Kailash Chopra . 
herua Hota Hai" 

Air Conditioned Mur . 
(Hindi) (Colour) 

ket, Bombay- 34 , 
(35 mm .) 
Endorsement 
Original Length : 97 -54 m . 

Reluce tho violonce in the fights, particularly the last onc, avoiding all gruesono 
looking shots 
(Length retained : 6 .01m .) . . . . . . . . . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 96 .48 m . 


1 .06 m . 


B /72700 


742 .00 ( 3) Sovexportfilm , 

bay-5. 


Bom - 


" The Nutcrackor ” 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR .) 


Soyuzmultfilm Studio 


U 
75859 P. E . 
22-8-74 


B /72699 


295 .00 ( 1 ) 


Do. 


Do. 


75860 


P . E . 


" Threo Tankmon " 
( English ) (Sovcolour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ) 


22- 8 - 74 


B / 72702 


550 .00 (2 ) 


•00 (2) 


Do . 


Contral Popular Soi- 
onco Film Studios . 


75861 P.E . 


" Filur Travol Al- 

inwiac " (No . 82 Al 
manaklı Kinoputosh 
ostivii ) (English ) 
( Sovcolour) (35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


22 - 8 - 74 


U 


1 /72701 


290 .00 ( 1 ) 


290-2010) 


Do, 


Do. 


Do , 


Do. 


1862 NotP.E. 


" Around The Soviet 
Union No. 109” ( Po 
Sovetkimu So yuzu ) 
( English ) (Sovcolour) 
(35min .) (USSR ). 


22 - 8 -74 


B /72780 


110 .00 (1 ) USSR Consulate Geo. Far East 
ral Bombay -26 . 

Studior , 


Newsrool 


75863 


" Kolina s Highways " 
( English ) Colour) 
( 16mm .) (USSR ). 


Not P . E . 


23- 8 - 74 


1 / 72767 -69 


" Sumquit " (Colour ) 
(16 nm .) (USSR ). 


110 . 00 ( 1) 


Do. 


Azerbaijan 
Studio . 


Film 


75864 Not P . E . (Valid 

for English , 
23- 8 - 74 Hindi, Bengali, 

vorsions.) 


U 


B /72781-82 


110 .00 (1) 


Do. 


" Homo of The First 
Atomic Station " 
(Colour) (16mm .) 
(USSR ) . 


Leningrad documen 
tary Film Studio . 


75865 P . E . (Valid for 

English & Hindi, 
23- 8-74 vorsions.) 


2288 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) PART 11- SEC . 4 


1 


B / 72766 


" Moscow Film Ro- 
viaw No, 6 " ( English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


278 . 00 ( 1 ) USSR Consulate Genc - Central Documentary 
ral Bombay- 26 . 

Filin Studio , 


U 
75866 
23-8 .74 


P . E . 


B /72805 


75867 


" Chakor Priya " 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 
(35mm .) (Advt.) 


30 .48( 1) Kul Bhushan Anand , Kul Bhushan Anand , 

A / 902 , Punam Ap - /902 , Punam An 
artment, Bonibay - 18. Ttment, Bombay -18 , 


23 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72806 


30 -48 (1) 


Do , 


Do . 


75868 


" Shubha Kamana " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
( 35mm .) (Advt.) 


23-8-74 


23- 8 - 74 


B / 72807 


" Kar Bhali Ho Bhala " 
(Hindi) (Colour ) 
(35mm . ) (Advt. ) 


U 
30 .48 ( 1 ) Kul Bhushan Anand, Kul Bhushan Anand , 75869 

A /902 , Punam Apart- A / 902 , Punam Apart- — 
inont, Bombay -18 . mont, Bombay - 18 . 23 -8 -74 


U 


B /72707 


" Van Vasino Vikas" 
(Gujarati) (35 mm .) 
(Documentary) (Shor 
tor Version ) 


300 - 23( 1 ) Liaison Ollicor, Govt. 

of Gujarat. 


Diroctor of Inforóla - 75870 P . E . 
tion , Govt. of Gu- - 
jurat, Gandhinagar. 24 -8 - 74 


U 


B / 72708 


75871 


" Trailor of Mera V4 - 
chan Goeta Ki Qua 
sam " (Hindi) (Col 
lour ) (35mm .) 


92 .66 ( 1 ) M . M . R . Films, Vinod - 

kumar and A , Nai- 
rang , Bombay - 18 . 


Vinodkumar and A . 
Nairang . M . M . R . - 
Filns . 


24 - 8 -74 


B /72743 


" Spring Starts" (Eng - 
lish ) ( Colour) (35mm ) 
(USSR ). 


664 .00 (3 ) USSR . Consulato Go- Contral Docuinontary 

noral Bonibay - 26 . Film , Studio 


75872 


- 


P . E . 


audio 


24-8-74P .E. 


24 -8 -74 


B /72762 


293 .00 ( 3 ) 


Do. 


Do . 


U 
75873 


" Wo aro tlo Stato " 
(English ) (Colour) 
( 16 mm .) (USSR ). 


P . E . 


24-8-74 P.E. 


24 - 8 - 74 


U 


B / 72688 


75874 With triangle mark . 


"" Trailor of Chattan 
Singh ” (Hindi) (Col 
our) (35mm .) 


94 - 19 ( 1 ) M /s Anubhay Hums, 

226 / 301, Famous 
Cino Bldg ., Bombay- 
II. 


M /s . Anublay Films, 
226 / 301 Famous 
Cino Blg. Bombay - 
11. 


24 -8 -75 


Endorsement 
Original Longth : 104 - 86 m . 

1. Delete inolostation of a girl by a old man ; 3 .20 m . 
2. Delete Chuttan Singh abusing his wife and son 
3. Reduce tho impact of violenco by doloting shots of gun fire and hard hitting . 
Longth of deletions : 10 -67 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 94 . 19 m , 


7 .47 m . 


f 


B /72320 


" Gonesis" 
(35 mm .) 


(English ) 


714 -02 (3 ) Film and TV Insti- Film and TV Instituto Rofused 

tute of India , Law of India , Law Col- Cortificato 
Collego Road , Poona - loge Road , Poona 4 

21- 8 - 74 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 


B /72358 -60 
Film : " Chidiyagarh Ki Sair" (Hindi) 
U -Cert. No, 75151 of 12-6 - 1974 

This Certificato is also valid for Marathi, Beligali and Oriya versions of the film in colour . 
The length of the film romains wichanged . 
This cortificato was andorsed on 19th August, 1974, 


B / 72664 - 65 
Film : " OMO " (English ) 
U -Cort, No. 75278 of 11- 7- 1974 . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


PART III — SEC. 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECLMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2289 


- -P 


e 


ri - - - - 


-- 


- 


- - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - 


* * - - Laky +w+ 5 


+41 


_% , 41 +IULKUL - kroki pole nen 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- -- 


- - 


++ 


+ 


This cortificato is also valid for Marathiand Konkani vorsions of the film , 
The longth of the film romains uncluanged . 

This certific .110 was ondorsed on 19th August, 1974 , 
B /50700 
Film : Froo Indood " (English ) 
U - Cort. No. 51445 of 29-7 -1967 

This cortifloato is also valid for Gorman vorsjon of the film in colour. 
Tho longth of the film remains unchanged . 
This certificato was ondorsod on 19th August. 1974 . 


1 /72705 -6 
Film : “ A Now Kind Of For une Teller " 
U -Cort. No. 74435 of 4 -3 - 1974 

This certificate is also yalid for Hindi and Punjabi versions of the film in colour , 
The longth of the film romains unchangod . 
This cortificate was endorsed on 201h August, 1974 , 


B /72703 - 4 
Film ; " Jadumantar" (English ) 
U .Cort. No. 74433 of 4 - 3- 1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Hindi and Punjabi versions of the film in colour, 
The length of tho film remains unchanged , 
This certificato was endorsed on 20th August, 1974 . 


B /67533 
Film : " Jotty At Kalpakkam ” ( English ) 
U -Cort. No. 71115 of 31 - 10 - 1972 

Deleted yarious shots : 87 . 78 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 262 . 74 mi. 
This certificate was ondorsod on 20th August, 1974 . 


B /61676 
Film : " Ajsa Kyon " (Hindi) 
U -Cort. No. 62213 dt. 30 -12 - 1970 

Film Division s monogram is approved : 3 . 42 m . 
Added : " It is a Triveni Pictures Presentation " : 3 .43 in . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid auditions will be : 70 . 86 m . 
This cortificato was endorsed on 22nd August, 1974 , 


B /72804 
Film : " Bharat Teerth " ( English ) 
U - Cort. No. 74372 of 16 -2- 1974 

This certificato is also valid for the following vorsions of the film under the titlos indicated agajnat each of them 
Hindi 

Bharat Teorth 
Marathi 

Bharat Toorth 
Gujarati 

Bharat Teert11 
Bengali 

Bharat Toorth 
Assamose 

Bharul Teerth 
Oriya 

Bharat Teerih 
Urdu 

Bharat Teerth 
Punjabi 

Bharat Teerth 
Tolupų 

Bharat Toortham 
Malayalam : Bharatha Thoertham 
Kannada 

Bhaarata Dosha 
Tamil 

Bharata Dogam 
The length of the film romains unchanged , 
This certificate was ondorsod on 24th August 1974 , 
CALCUTTA 

U 
Sukhi Grechu Kong 320 - 95 ( 1) Shankar Banerji Pru - Depi, of Information 73477 
(Documentary ) (Ben 

duction 68 /31- C Govt . of W . Bengal 7 - - - -- 
gali) ( India ). 

Russa Road Cal- 26 . Writers Buildings 24 -8 -74 

Calcutta . 


C /8073 


C /8070 


99 - 06 ( 1) 


U 
73478 


Trailer of Mauchaak 
(Bengali) -- (35 min . ) 
(India ). 


Pratima Pictures 56 / 9 

M . N . Sen Road , 
Calcutta 


Pratima Pictures 56 /9 
M . N . Sen Road - - 
Calcutta . 


24 - 8 -74 , 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


2290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) [PART II— Sec . 4 


1 


1 


EI - - 


- NUS 


- 


G 


C /8074 


Chhutir Ghanta (Ben 
gali ) (35 mm .). 


Oikyatan 6 /1 -8 / 
Northern Avenue 
Calcutta . 

MADRAS 


U 
Oikyatan 6 / 1- 8 / Nor- 73479 
thein 

Avenue - - - - 
Calcultan. 

24-8-74 


M /8837 


102 - 10 (1) Suchitramanjari 

Madras , 


Suchitaramanjari 
Madras. 


067682 


Trailer of " Thacholi 
Marumagan Chandu 
(Malayalam (Colour) 
(35 mm .) ( India ). 


67682 


19-8 - 74 


U 
67683 


M / 8838 


Doorgha 

(Telugu ) 
(Colour) 
(India ). 


Sumangall 4251 . 96 ( 16 ) Gopalakrishna Prodns. Gopalakrishna Prodny. 
(Partly Madras, 

Madras , 
(35 mm .) 


20 - 8 - 74 


M / 8836 


Chitra 


U 
67684 


Koerti 
Madras. 


Himmatwall (Hindi) 3840 . 00 (14 ) Koorti 
(35 mm .) B & W 

Madras . 
(India ), 


Chitra 


20 -8 -74 


U 
67685 


M / 8842 


91 44( 1 ) Hemalata Films (Ma- Himalata Films 
dras ) Madras . 

(Madras) Madras . 


Traller of A khiri 
Nishan (Hindi) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 
(India ). 


- 


- 


21- 8 - 74 


M /8843 


83 . 82 (1 ) Noola Productions 

Trivandrum 


U 
67686 


Neela Productions 
Trivandrum . 


Trailer of Devi Kanya - 
Kumari (Malayalam ) 
( Colour ) (35 mm .) 
( India ). 


21 - 8 - 74 


U 
67687 


M / 8819 


Haatati* 
(35 mm .) 
(India ) 


( Telugu ) 4557 - 97 (18 ) Devi Priyadharshni Devi Priyadarshini 
B & W . 

Plctures Madras . Pictures Madras . 


22 -8 - 74 


M /8857 


Tamilnadu Govt. 
Rogional Nows Bul 
latin No. 122 (Tamil) 
(35 mm .) B & W . 
( India ), 


305 . 00 (1 ) Tho Directorate of Tho Directorate of 67688 

Information & Public Information & Public mp 
Relationg Madras. Rolations Madras . 22 -8 -74 


M /8841 


30 .48(1) Shri M . S . Rajappan , Movic International , 

Madras , 


67689 


u 


Champion alla Ayike 
(Kannada ) (Eastinan 
colour) (35 mm .) 
( India ) 


23 - 8 - 74 


M / 8834 


67690 


‘Dovi Kanyakumari 3961 - 18 (15) Neela Productions 
(Malayalam ) (East 

Thiruvandrum 
mancolour ) (35 mm .) 
( India ). 


Neela Productions , 
Trivandrum , 


ALU 


24 - 8 - 74 


U 


M / 8829 


67691 


‘ Bhaktha Kumbara 4340 -35 ( 16 ) Lakshmi Film Com - Lakshmi Film Con 
(Kannada) (Eastman 

bines, Madras. bines, Madras. 
colour ) ( 35 mm .) 
(India ). 


24 - 8 - 74 


U 
67692 


M /8844 


Take it Regularly 
( English ) ( orwocol 
our) (35mm .) (India ). 


30 -48 ( 1) Cinerad Communio Cincrad Communica 

cations , Madras . tions, Madras. 


24 - 8 - 74 

U 
67693 


M /8854 


30 .48( 1 ) Cinerad Communica - Cinerad Communica 
tions . Madras . 

tions, Madras . 


Build stronth and 
Resistanco (English ) 
(orwocolour ) (35 mm ) 
(India ). 


24 - 8 -74 


Week ending 31st August 1975 

BOMBAY 


U 
75875 


B /72740 


P . E . 


" Education in USSR " 

(Engllah ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (USSR .). 


Laningrad Documen 
tary Film Studio . 


697 . 00 (3 ) USSR Consulate 

General Bom 
bay -26 . 


26 - 8 -74 

U 
75876 


B /72783 


350 . 00 ( 2 ) 


Do . 


P . E . 


" Young Naturliost " 
(English ) - (Colour) 
(33 mm .) (USSR ). 


Lower Volga Newsicol 
Film Studio . 


26 - 8 - 74 


PART II - SEC . 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) 


2291 


Tomma2 mem3 


tomcom 5 mm 


B / 72744 -47 


" Soviet Army No. 21" 
(35 mm .) (USSR ). 


597 00 ( 2) USSR Consulatu 

General, Bom 
bay - 26 . 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


75877 Not P . E . Valid 

– for English Gu 
26 - 8 - 74 jarati Telugu & 

Kannada 
gions. 


vcr 


B / 72778 


554 . 00 


Yeravan Documentary 
Film Studio , 


75878 


" Unforgetablo Years " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(33 mm .) (USSR ) 


P . E . 


26 - 8 - 74 


B /72779 


110 . 00 ( 1 ) 


Svedlysk Film Studio 


75879 


" Chelyabingk " (Eng- 

lish ) (Colour) (16 
mm .) (USSR ) 


26-8-74 


26 - 8 - 74 

U 
75880 Not P . E . 


B / 72776 


110 .00 ( 1 ) 


" Potrolium - Born 
Town " (English ) 
(Colour) ( 35 mm .) 
(USSR ) . 


Central Popular Sci 
once Film Studio . — 


26 - 8 -74 


B / 72777 


748 .00 (3 ) 


U 
75881 P . E . 


" Architoctural Monu - 
monts of Uzbekistan " 
( English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (USSR ) 


Uzbekistan Popular 
Science and Educa 
tion Film Studio . 


26 - 8 - 74 


B /72774- 75 


110 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Central Popular So 

viet Film Studio 


75882 Not P . E . 


" Ivanov Experiences 
Robirth " (English 
& Bongali) (Colour ) 
(16 mm .) 


26 - 8 -74 


U 


B / 72715 


" Ranuja Na Raja 4084 .52 (16 ) Patel Films, Shankar Naranbhai V . Patel , 75883 
Ramdoy " (Gujarati) 

Nagar Society, Ah . Babubhai R . Patel. 
(Colour) (35 mm .) medabad , 

27-8 -74 

U 
" Haath Ki Safa1" 3889 - 36 (16 ) Pushpa Pictures , 1 - E LA . Nediadwala , 11 - E 75884 With triangle mark , 
(Hindi) ( Colour) 

Naaz Buldg., Laming. Naaz Bldg., Rombay- - - 
(35mm .) ton Road , Bombay- 4 4 . 

27 - 8 - 74 


B /72606 


Endorsement, 
Original length : 3959 . 29 m . 

Cut Roel 
No. No . 


From Usmanbhai s lottor roading, delete the underlined word 
from " Tum aur hum okhibistarmon upar . . . . " 

(Inked off). 
XV In the scene of Raju hitting in jail, delete shots of hard hittings 
on gtomach and chin 

1 . 83 m . 
XV Delete hard hitting shots in fight between two brothers 

2 . 44 m . 
XVI Reduce the last fight congidorably by drastically reducing hard 

hitting shots of hanging Kunar being banged on wagons , Ran 
jit holding the child at the point of pistol and blood smoarod 
face of Ranjit when he gets killed 

65 .66 m , 
(Longth retained : 50 - 34 m .) 
Longth of deletions : 69 .93 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 3889 - 36 m . in 16 reels , 


B /72573 


U 
75885 P . F . 


" Who kiliod Tho Salo " 
(English ) (Colour ) 
( 16 mm .) (U .K .) 


242 . 64 ( 3 ) AMA Education Pvt. Short Films Group , 

Ltd ., Canada Bldg., Rank Advt. G . Films. - 
Dr. D . N . Road , 
Bombay- 1. 


27 -8 - 74 


U 


B /72672 " Faslah " (Hindi) 3884 .00( 15) Khwaja Ahmed Ab - Khwaja Ahmad Ab 75886 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 

bas , Philomena Lo bas , Philomena Lo - -- 
dge , Juhu, Bombay-54 . dge Juhu , Bombay -54. 27-8 -74 

U 
B /72308 " Froodom " (English) 217 -84 (1) Shri Girish Karnard, Film & TV Instituto 75887 With triangle mark . 
(35 mm .) 

Director Film & TV of India . 
Institute of India . 

28- 8 - 74 
20 - - 369 G1/75 


2292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) (PART III - SEC . 4 


11 


II 


- EGY 


V 


Y 


= 


- = - 


= - Y 


- Y 


- 


r - - + - - - 


2 
- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


Endorsement : 
Original Length : 256 .03 m . 

Delete all photoos of political leaders such as the PrimeMinister, Ministersand 
the President and military officer . . . . . . . . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 217 -84 m . 


38 19 m , 


U 


B / 72845 


225 . 00 (1 ) 


" Indian News Review 
No, 1350 " (35 mm .) 


Films Division, Govt. Films Division , Govt . 
of India , 24 - Peddar of India , 24 - Peddaj - 
Road , Bombay - 26 . Road , Bombay -26 , 


75888 Valid for English , 

Hindi, Tamil, Tal 
28 - 8 - 74 lugli, Kannada , 

Malayalam , As 
samase, Oriya , 
Punjabi, Bengali , 
Kashmiri and Urdu 
vorsions. 


B /72843 


300 .00 (1 ) 


Do , 


300-0(1) 


"Indian, Nows Review 


" Indian Nows Review 
No, 1350 " (Western 
Edition ) (35 mm .). 


Do. 


Do. 


75889 


15889 


valid for English, 


Valid for English , 
Hindi, Marathi, 
Gujarati, Sindhi, 
Versions. 


28 - 8 -74 


B /72833 


“ Mabiti Chitra No. 

188 " (Gujarati ) (35 
mm .) 


213 . 36 (1 ) Liaison Officer, Govt. Director of Informa- 75890 
of Gujarat. tion Govt. of Gujarat , - 

28-8 - 74 


B /72674 


75891 


" Vividhata Mumbai- 
chi" (Marathi) (Co 
lour) (35 m .) (Advt.) 


30 .48 (1) Film Media , 47-Laxmi Film Media , 47 -Laxmi 

Insurance Bldg., Sir Ingurance Bldg. Sir - 
P . M . Road , Bombay - P . M . Road, Bombay - 


29 -8 -74 


U 
75892 


B /72798 


30 .48 (1) 


Do . 


" Cloarasil For Pimple 
Contral" . (Marathi) 
(Colour ) (35 mm .) 
(Advt.). 


29 - 8 - 74 


B /72799 


30 .48 ( 1) 


75893 


" Clearasil Proven 
Pimple Treatment " 
(Gujarati) ( Colour) 
(35 mm .) (Advt.) 


29 - 8 -74 


U 


45894 


B / 72800 


30 -48 ( 1 ) 


75894 


" Fight Your Pimple 
Problom With Clea 
rasil " (Hindi) (Co . 
Jour) ( 35 mm .) 
(Advt.). 


29 - 8 -74 


B / 72830 


75895 


P . E , 


" Plastic Kabler Ro - 
ban havn Roskilde" 
(Silent) (16 mm .) 


132 . 90 ( 1 ) S . R . Skrishnaswamy, Denmark . 

Aggtt . Engineer R , T . 
T . C . Sakinaka , Bom 
bay - 59 . 


29- 8 - 74 


U 


B /72829 


75896 


“ Cadences " The Five 
Bulgo Tattoo " (Eng 
lish ) (Colour) (16 
mm .) . 


nicht een positie van het 


P . E . 


265 . 80 ( 1) Asstt. Engineer , T . T . Foderal Republic of 

C . Sakinaka , Bombay- Germany . 
59 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


B / 72814 


22 .86 (1) 


“ The Taste Matches 
up to tho name" 
( English ) ( Colour ) 
(35 mm .). 


F . B . Production Film 
Contre , 68 - Tardeo 
Road , Bombay-34 , 


U 
F . B . Production , Film 75897 
Contre 68 - Tardco - - 
Road , Bombay- 34 . 29 -8 -74 


B /72835 


30 . 00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


75898 


15898 


" Dum Lan Dum 
Badar " (Hindi) (35 
mm .) (Adyt.) 


29 - 8 - 74 


B /72250 


30 -47 ( 1) M /s . Yagh Raj Films M /s. Yash Raj Films. 

Pvt . Ltd . Bombay . Pvt . Ltd . Bombay . 


U 
75899 


“ Laxmi, the Supreme 
Boauty " ( Telugu ) 
(Colour ) (Advt.) 
(35 inm .) 


29 -8 - 74 


PART 1I - SEC . 44 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) 


2293 


2 


- 


B /72253 


30 - 47 (1) 


75900 


“ For Laxmi, A New 
Experlonce " (Kannada 
(Colour) (Advt.) 
(35 mm .). 


29 - 8 - 74 


U 


30 .47(1 ) 


Do. 


75901 


B /72250 & 54 " The complexion you 

wish you were Born 
With ( Tamil) (Co 
lour) (35 mm ) 
Advt.) 


097(1) 


29 - 8 -74 


B / 72250 - 54 


30 . 47 (1 ) 


Do. 


75902 


" Got That Supreme 
Feeling" (Malyalam ) 
(Colour ) ( 35 mm .) 
(Adyt.) . 


30:47(1) 


(35 methan 


29 - 8 - 74 


IT 


B / 72679 


75903 


" Trip To Bombay 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (Advt.) 


30 -48(1) Film Media , 47- Laxmi Film Media , 47 -Laxini 

Insurance Bldg., Sir Ingurance Bldg., Sir 
P . M . Road, Bom - P . M . Road , Bom 
bay - 1 . 

bay - 1 . 


30 -8 - 74 


B / 72796 


U 
73904 


" Get The Tasto" 
(English ) (Colour ) 
(35 mm .) (Adyt.) 


22 -86 ( 1) M /s. Trio 

Bombay . 


Films, 


Films, M /s. Trio 

Bombay . 


30 -8 -74 


B /72797 


22 . 86 ( 1) 


Do. 


Do . 


75905 


" You ve Got Taste ” 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) (Advt.). 


30-8- 74 


30 - 8 - 74 


U 


B /72836 


75906 


" Tal" (Hindi) (16mm ) 
(Documcotary ) 


P . E . 


265 . 18 (2 ) Space Application 

Centre, Ahmedabad 


Application 


Space 
Contre . 


30 . 8 - 74 


30 -8-74 


B /72756 -60 


" Abreast ofOur Timo" 
( 16 mm . ) (USSR ). 


213 .00 ( 2 ) USSR . Consulate Ge- Central Documontary 
neral. Bombay . 

Film Studio . 


75907 

(Valid for English , 
30 - 8 - 74 Kannada , Telugu 

Gujarati, Mala 
yalam , verslong 


U 


B /72761 


272 .00 (1) USSR Consulate Ge- Central Documentary 
noral. Bombay, 

Film Studio . 


75908 


" Moscow Film Reviw 
No 5" (English ) 
(Colour) (35 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


P . E . 


30 - 8 -74 


B / 72748 


110 -00 ( 1) 


Do . 


Do. 


For Outstanding 
Contribution in the 
CAUSO of Peaco " 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


75909 Not P . E . (Valid 

- for Hindi, Kan 
30 -8 - 74 nada , Malayalam , 

Bengali , Gujarati 
and Marathi 
versions . 


B /72723 


114 -00 ( 1 ) 


Do . 


Odessa Film 


Studio 


" Green Petrol" (Co - 
lour) ; ( 16 mm .) 
(USSR ). 


U75910 (Valid for Marathi 

Punjabi, Telugu , 
30-8- 74 Kannada , Guja 

rati versions). 


B / 72734 - 35 


109 -00 ( 1) 


Do . 


U 
75911 


Inventions of Prof. 
Alexandrov" (Hindi 
and English ) (16mm .) 
(USSR ). 


Central Popular Sci 
ence Educational 
Film Studio 


30 - 8 - 74 


B /72734 - 35 


112 -00 ( 1) 


Central Documentary 
Film Studio . 


823434 


" Around Tho Soviet 
Union No . 102" 
(Colour ) ( 16 mm . ) 
(USSR ). 


75912 (Vlalid for Marathi, 

Punjabi, Telugu 
30 -8 - 74 versions .) 


U 


B / 72736 -37 


236 .00 (2) 


Do. 


75913 


" Soviet Army No, 20 " 
(Marathi & Kannada 
( 16 mm .) (USSR ). 


30-8.74 


2294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897)(PART III- SEÇ. 4 


2 


U 


B /72376 - 83 


75914 Not P . E . 


" Night Carrocs Pt. I 
The Wounded Stran 
ger " (Englislı ) ( 16 
mm .) ( U .K .), 


166 . 73 ( 1 ) National Education and 

Information Cecil Musk . 
Films Ltd ., National 
House Tulloch Road , 
Bombay - 1 . 


31- 8 - 74 


B /72478 


U 
75915 Not P . E . 


" Hope In the Hills " 
(English ) (Colour) 
(35 mm .) 


562 - 36 (2 ) Look Publicity , Bom - West Bengal Stato 
bay - 50 . 

Electricity Board , 


31 - 8 - 74 


B /72673 


A 
3235 


" Vazhkai 
( Tamil) 
(35 mm .) 


Ragasyam " 3699 . 12 (14 ) Adrsh Arts, Manek 
(Colour) 

Chamber Lamington 
Road , Bombay -4 . 


B . K . Adarsh , Adarsh 
Arts . Bombay- 4 . 


27 - 8 -74 


B /72282 


The Roop Enterprises, 


3236 


With triangle mark . 


" Jab Andheraa Hota 3479 -88(15) Kailash Chopra , 6145 
Hai" (Hindi) Cut 

Air Conditioncd Mar 
lour) (35 mm .). 

ket, Bombay - 34 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


Endorsement i 
Original Length : 3540 -56 n . 

Cut Reel 
No. No. 


1. 


I 


Keduce the sceno of strangulation of the girl by deleting grue 
some visuals 

(Longth retained : 1 . 90 m .) . . . . . 


1 . 00 m . 


2. 


4 . 79 m . 


1 . 80 m . 


7 .01 m . 


2 .02 m . 


1 .10 m . 


0 .66 m . 


IV Reduce the fighting between Vikrain and goondas in a dis 

couthcque, deleting hard hitting shots Also delete the shot of a 
goondaluoking from below indecorously at the exposed uppor 
part of Roina s thighs 
(Length retained : 36 .80 m .) 
Reduce by half the beating of Vikram by the gang of Dara 

(Length retained : 12 .65 m . ) 
VIL Reduce to tho minimum the scene of two prostitutes at the bar 

and delete the dialogue of one of the prostitutos " jab tak kisi ki 
sharir ki ang nahibujhaoongi. . . . . . " 

(Length rotainod : 2 . 29 m .) 
VIII Reduce the scene of Ramosh making love to Alka, deleting shota 
of his kissing and caressing her thigh , , 

, 
(Length retaned : 5 .07 m .) 
VIII Reduce the strangulation of Alka by Pratap to tho minimum 

(Length retained : 8 . 84 m .) 
VIIJ Reduce the stangulation of Raaji by Pratap 

(Length retained : 1 . 87 m . ) 
IX (u tho sequence of Roma and Vikram in the garden and during 

the picturisation of the song , delete all suggestions of kissing 
between the two and reduce the shots of suggestive actions 
of hands pressing tho back and legs . . . 

(Length retained : 3 . 81 m .) 
(Replaced with approved shots : 4 - 22m .) 
Delete the suggestion of kiss between Roma and Vikram and 
reduce shots of suggestive actions of hands pressing at tho back 
(Length retained : 1 . 35 m .) 
In the scene of imaginary killing of Ramcsh by Pratap , reduce 
Pratap hitting Raincsh with the car to the minimum , 
( Length retained : 7 .82 m .) 
During the cabaret dance, delete indecorous actions of dancers 
and Vikram . 

( Replaced with approved shots : 3 .44 m .) . 
XII Reduce the strangulation of a cabaret girl in the bath tub . 

(Length rotaincd : 0 . 32m . 
XIV Reduce drastically the beating of Vikram on the bridge by 

yoondas, by delering gruesome and hard hitting shots and 
prominent shots of their bloodmeared faces 

(Longth retained : 26 . 56 m .) 
XV Delete the shot of attempted strangulation of Vikram by Pratap 

and also reduce thc fight. . 
Vol. deletions in reel 2 : . . . . . . . 


4 . 22 m . 


2 .28 m .) 


9 .03 ,m . 


3 .44 m . 


0 . 22 m . 


28 . 19 m . 


- 


1 .61 m . 
0 . 97 m . 


BART HL- SEC, 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 ( AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 
W 


2295 


2 


3 


Longth of deletions : 67 -37 m . 
Length of approved replacement : 7 .66 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid alterations will be : 3479 .88 m . in 15 reels , 

А 
" The Summertime Kli- 2799 - 81(11) Sir Ganesh Prasad Antonio 

3237 
ler " (Revised ) (Eng 

Movios, C /o Asia 
lish ) (Colour ) ( 35mm ) Films, 315 / G , New 

31 - 8 - 74 
(Rome) 

Charni Rd., Bombay - 4 . 


B / 71110 


With triangle mark . 


Endorsement : 

Original Length : 2812 -83 m . 
The original version of the film (B /69354 ) wag refused a certificate for public exhibition . 

Cut Reel 
No . No . 


1. I In the pretitle sequonce , delete repeat shot of the hero s fathor 

pushed down the stops and the second shot of his head going 
under water , 

2 - 74 
2. 1 In the train scquence , delete the second shot of shooting by the horo 
and the second shot of gangster falling 

2 . 44 m . 
3. II Reduce impact of killing of the third gangster in Rome 

0 - 30 m . 
(Length retained : 0 .61 m .) 
4. IX Delete the end portion of Ray and Tania in bed including tho 
removal of strap of brassiers 

4 .88 m2 
5. x Reduce considerably draggipg of dead bull 

1 -83 m . 
(Length retained : 0 - 91 m .) 
6 . X Delete the last portion of the sceno whom tho head of a man 

clinging to the running motor-cycle is bashed against the wall 
of a bridge . . . 

1 .83 m . 
7. XI Modify the superimposed titlo at the end to remove the in 

pression that he was sentenced to throo years only as this puni 
shment is not adequate . 
(This has been modified by stating that RAY WAS FINALLY 

CAUGHT BY THE POLICE AND IMPRISONED ) 
Length of doletion : 14 .02 m . 

Actual length of the film after the aforesald deletions will be 2799 -81 m . 
" Indian Nows Reviow 200 .00 ( 1 ) Films Division , Govt, Film Division Bom Refused 
No. 1350 - A " (Eng of India 24 Peddar bay - 26 . 

certificato 
ligh) and Hindi) 

Road, Bombay-26 . 
(35 m .). 

30 - 8 - 74 


B / 72460 


ENDORSEMENT UNDER RULE 34 


B /72785 
Film : " Your Family s Best Friend " ( English ) 
This cortificato is also valid for Hindi vorsion of the film in colour. 

The longth of the film remains unchanged . 

This certificate was endorsed on 25th August, 1974 . 
B /72819 -21 
Film : " Mother Care" ( English ) 
U -Cort. No. 75220 of 26 -6 - 1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu and Kannada versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remains unchanged . 

This cortificato was ondorsed on 26th August, 1974 . 
B / 72813 
Film : " The Camora " (English ) 


2296 - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897 ) [PART - Sec. 4 


1 


23 


4 


in colour . 


U -Cort. No. 75219 of 26 -6 -1974 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamjl version of the Alm 
The longth of the film romains unchangod , 
This cort / ficato was ondorsed on 26th August, 1974 . 


B /72808- 12 
Film : " Chand Ka rukdu " (English ) 
U - Cart. No, 75284 of 11-7 -1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam , Kannada and Hindi versions of the film in colour. 
The length of the film remalos unchanged . 
This cortificato was endorsed on 26th August, 1974 . 


B /72596 
Film : " Trimurti" (Hindi) 
U - Cert. No. 75525 of 1- 8 - 1974 . 
RoolNo. IX Deleted various shots 0 -91 ni. Reel No. XIV Deleted various shots 9 .75 m . 
XIII Deleted various shots 13 .41 m . 

XV Deleted various shots 17 .07 m . 
Length of doletions : 4114 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesaid deletions will be : 4268 .73 m . 

This cortificate wag endorsed on 26th August, 1974 . 
B /72790 - 95. 
Film : “ Rang Moin Aiya" (Hindi) (Colour) 
U -Cert . No . 75551 of 6 -8 -1974 . 

This certificato is also valid for Marathi, Gujarati, Telugu , Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam vorsions of the film 
in colour. 
The longth of the Alm remains unchanged . 
This cortificate was oudorged on 28th August, 1974 . 


B / 72788 - 89 
Film : “ His Name is Today" (English ) (35 mm .) 
U . Cert. No. 75594 of 14-8 -1974 . 

This cortificate is also valid for Hindi and Marathi versions of the film . 
The longth of the film romains unchangod . 
This cortificate was endorsed on 29th August, 1974 . 


B / 72283 
Film : " Doosri Soota " (Hindi) ( Colour) 
U -Cert. No. 75196 of 24 - 6 - 1974 . 
Rool XII Deleted various shots : 79 -80 m . 

XII Added various shots : 73 :15 m . 
Actual length of the film after the aforesald alterations will be : 3000 -82 m . 
This certificato was endorsed on 30th August, 1974 . 

CALCUTTA 


C /8088 


P8A 


Paschim Banga Sur- 
karer Sangbad Chitra 
No, 60 (Nowsreal) 
(Bengali) 35 mm . India 


U 
Panna Son P8A , B . K . Dept. of Information , 73480 

Paul Avogue, Cal- Govt. of W , Bongal - - - 
cutta . 

Writors Buildings , 24 - 8 - 74 
Calcutta . 


U 


C / 8077 


24R 


Tinti Padakhyop (Bon - 
- . gali) (35 mm .) India 


Do. 


73481 


Grafilm s 72C 24 , R , 
Rustainjeo St. Cal. 
cutta . 


27 - 8 - 74 


PART III - SBC , 4 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , DECEMBER 13, 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22 , 1897) 


2297 


= 


C /8082 


U 
73482 


Trailer of Ngak - E 
Konangse (Manipur ) 
India , 


Punnam Pictures . 
Manipur . 


Punnam Pictures Basant 

Manipur . 


27 - 8 - 74 


C /8085 


73483 


Silont Sorvice (Eng- 
lish ) (Colour ) 35 
mm . Iodia . 


487 . 68 (2 ) Image Indla Films P. Image India Films P. 

Ltd , 9 /4 , Lovelock Ltd . 
Place , Calcutta - 29 . 


27 - 8 - 74 


U 


C /8076 


73484 


Rosos And Thorns 
(English ) 35 mm . 


443 -48( 2 ) Atul Sarmah Clo Oll Atul Sarmah , 

Jadia Ltd , Duliajan , 
Asgam . 


29 - 8- 74 P . E . 
U 
73485 


C /8080 


Progross Through Ro- 
soarch (English ) 35 
mm . India . 


585 - 21(2) Ashis Mukherjee Look Contral Mechanical 

Publicity 3, C . R . Engineering Research - 
Avenue , Cal-13. Institute , Durgapur 


29 - 8 - 74 

U 
73486 


C /8083- 84 


Kolkata Badlate Cha . 
locho (Bongall), (Eng 
11gh ) 35 mm . India . 


348 . 64 ( 2 ) Contemporary Films Contemporary Films. 

385 - A , Block G Now 
Alſporo, Calcutta - 53 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


C /8087 


73487 


Rakta (Blood) (Ben- 2433 -60 (7) 
gall) 35min . India . 


C . Dasgupta Produc- C . Das Gupta Produc 
tions 385- A , Block tions. 
G New Alipore, 
Calcutta -53 . 


29 - 8 -74 


29-8-74 


C / 8081 


73488 


Pratibimba (Bengali ) 2894 .08( 11) Nandan Chitrani, 48 , Sharan Dey . 
35 mm Indla . 

Chandra Mandal Lane , 
Calcutta - 26 . 


29 - 8 - 74 


C /8086 


U 
73489 


Dovi Choudhuraal 3979 - 78 (15) Sanchayita Films 58 / Dinen Gupta 
(Bongall) 35 mm , 

82A , Prince Anwar 
Road , Calcutta -45 . 


13 - 8 -74 


MADRAS 


U 


M / 8833 


+ 


Unnaithan Thambi 3964 -83 ( 16 ) Geetha Chitra , Geetha Chitra , 67694 With Cuts. 
(Tamil) 35 mm . 

Madras . 

Madras. 
B & W India . 

26 - 8 - 74 
Endorsomont on cort. No , 67694 - U dt. 26th August 1974 isglied to the film Unnaithan Thambi (Tamil) 

Longth applied . 3987 - 37 Metres . 


Mts. 


Cuts 

1. 
2. 


Reel 
1 
4 


0 . 91 


64 -30 


3. 


7 


Delete tho display of ‘Nirodh in the hands of the man in hotel 
Delete the shots ofmidriff, bare legs, geen in parts, of the 

singers . 
(b ) all shots inside the bathroom , the girl in tho bath -tube, 

outside the bath -tub , and all tho actions of Kumar with the 

Singor . (Roplaced approved shots 64 .30) . . . 
Delete the word Arangotram uttered by the cook and kumar 
( Sound ). 
Dolore Manorama s words Aymbathil Illa ya ? . . . . Ezhuvathia 
arllum Irukkadhu . . . .upto Theriyum and the words referring 
to corruption boing Provalont la other States , 
Reduce molestation soquenco to a flash , deloting action of 
Kumar s tearing Lalitha s blouse and his lying over her in the 
cot, both in the long and close -shots . 

Total , 


12 .49 


5. 


13 


9 . 14 


86 . 84 


Total roplacamont 64 - 30 Mts . 
Actual length will be 3964 .83 Metres in 16 reels . 


U 


M /8796 


67695 


Anbu Thangal (Tamil 3981 00 (10) Gowri Arts Enter- Gowri Arts Enter- 
(35 mm ) B & W 

prises,Madras. priss, Madras. 
(India ). 


28 - 8 - 74 


2298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , DECEMBER 13 , 1975 (AGRAHAYANA 22, 1897) (PART III - SEC . 4 


M /8835 


U 
Dhanavanthulu Gu . 3863 · 53( 15 ) Devi Arts , Maclras Dovi Arts, Madras 67696 With cuts , 
navanthulu ( Telugu ) 
(35 mm ). B & W 

28 - 8-74 
( India ), 
Endorsement on Cort, No. 67696 - 0 Dated the 28th August 1974 isgued to the film Dhan vanthulu Gunavanthulu ( Telugu ) 
35mm . B & W 
Longth applied 3866 -87 motros . 
Cuts. Roel 

Metros 
1 . 10 From the picturigation of the song beginning with the words 

" You glagula dhwanco" delet tho following : 
(1) Nagu (In the guise of Raja ) holding the raises log of 
Madhuri against the song line " Yee tarunam jari Peradu " . 
(Replaced insort of Raja 1 22) 

1 . 22 
(b ) Maduri kcoping her log on the swing stretching it in a 
ralsed posture . ( roplaced oil painting insert 1 - 22) , 

1 . 22 
(c ) tho suggestive kigsing between Madhuriand Nagu on bed 
after the end of the song . . . . . . 

1 . 22 
(d ) from the song text, delote the following ling , . . 1 :52 
" Mana mana sattuya choodamu 

5 . 78 

Total 
Total roplacement 2 .44 motres . 
Actual length of the film will be 3863 ·53 metres in 15 reels 

U 
Angel Form (Mala - 36 .57(1) jogoy Desigters , Co . jegoy , Designers, Co . 67697 
yalam ) (35 mm ). 

chin , 
B & W ( India ). 

31-8 -74 

U 
Nalla Paadam 833 .90(3) Merak Privato Ltd., Marak Private Ltd ., 67698 
( Tamil) (35 mm .) 

Madras. 

Madras . 
B & W (India ) 

31 - 8 - 74 P . E . 


M /8859 


chin . 


M /8872 


U 


M /8862 


Enterprises , 


*Adapillala 

( Telugu ) 
B & W 


Entorprises , Sathya 

Madras. 


67699 


Thandri 4302 . 85 (16 ) Sathya 
( 35 mm .) 

Madras. 
(India ) 


31 -8 -73 


(Sd - A. LK . SARKAR ) 

por Chairman 
Central Board of Film Censors 


PRINTWD BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRBAS , PARIDADAD 
AND PUBLISHAD JY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELFT , 1975 


