I- 2 . 54 


REGISTERED NO. D . 22 


ASEA 


The Gazette 


of India 


কাময় 


ই 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 5 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


NOTICE 


Flest naderwentioned Gazettce of India Extraordinary woro published upto the 23rd 
January 1964 : 


" Issue 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No 


13 | S . R . O . 234 , daced Delimitation Com - | Corrections in the Final Order No . 7 , 

the 18th January , | mission , India . dated the 25th December, 1953 . 
1954 , 

(S . R . O . 2377 ). 
S. R .O . 235 , dated Election Commission , | Election Petition No. 22717 of 1952 . 
the 8th January , | India . 
1954 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submitted 80 as to reach he 
Menager within ten daya of the date of issue of these Gazettes . 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 


New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 


S . R . O . 334 .„ In pursuance of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 114 of the Representation of 
the People ( Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules , 1951, the names 
of the person shown in column 1 of the Schedule below , who having been nomi 
nated as candidates for election to the House of the People from the constituency 
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 thereof and each having appoint 
ed himself to be his election agent at the said election , have, in accordance with 
the decision given by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) of the said rule , 
failed to lodge the returns of election expenses within the time and in the 
manner required and have thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause 

( 231 ) 


232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


( C) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 
XLIII of 1951) , are hereby published : 

SCHEDULE 


Name of the candidato 


Name of constituency 


Shri Babu Lal of Aligarh 
Shri Natha Ram of Nagla Jogiya 


Aligarh District 
Aligarh District 


[No, UP - P /52 (92). ] 


S . R . O . 335 . - In pursuance of sub - rule (5 ) of rulę 114 of the Representation of 
the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions ) Rules , 1951, the name 
of the person shown in the Schedule below who having been nominated as a 
cadidate for bye - election to the Council of States by the elected members of the 
Andhra Legislative Assembly , and having appointed himself to be his election 
agent, at the said bye- election , has , in accordance with the decision given by the 
Election Commission under sub - rule ( 4 ) of the said rule 114 , failed to lodge the 
return of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and has 
thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 
143 of the Representation of the People Act (XLIII of 1951 ) , is hereby published :- - * 

SCHEDULE 
Shri Gottemukkala Ramachandra Raju . 

[No. AD -CS / 53 ( 1) / Bye .) 

By Order , 
P . R . KRISHNAMURTHY, Asstt . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 
S . R . O . 336 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon him by clausc ( 1 ) of 
article 103 of the Constitution , and acting in accordance with the opinion of the 
Election Commission obtained under clause ( 2 ) of the said article and set out in 
the Appendix hereto , the President has rejected the petition , dated the 23rd 
October , 1963, submitted by Shri Shankar Tripathi against Shri J . N . Wilson , 
a Member of the House of the People , 


ENDLX 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

OPINION 

In re : Shri J. N . Wilson , M . P . 
This is a petition submitted to the President under article 102 of the Consti 
tution by Shri Shankar Tripathi, who at the last general elections was a contesting 
candidate for election in the Mirzapur District - cum - Banaras District (West ) 
Parliamentary constituency , alleging that the returned candidate , Shri J . N . Wilson . 
incurred disqualification for membership of the House of the People for " contra 
vening the President s notification issued under section 15 of R . P . Act , 1951, and 
using aeroplane against the provisions of sub - section 6 of section 123 of R . P . Act . 
1951 " . Earlier , Shri Tripathi filed an election petition , on 6th May 1952, challeng 
ing the election of Shri Wilson , and the Tribunal dismissed that petition by its 
order , dated the 22nd December. 1952. The order of the Tribunal took effect on 
the 29th December , 1952, on publication in the Gazette of India . Shri Tripathi has 
stated that he has filed a writ pctition in the Supreme Court for quashing the 
findings and order of the Tribunal, and to declare him duly elected in place of 
Shri Wilson , 

It is not quite clear from the petition what exactly are the grounds on which 
Shri Tripathi has raised the question of Shri Wilson s disqualification under article 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 


233 


102 of the Constitution . It seems, his contention is that as Shri Wilson used an 
aeroplane in connection with his election campaign , and as the use of the aero 
plane was permitted by the District Magistrate , a major corrupt practice was 
committed within the meaning of section 123 ( 6 ) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and therefore, Shri Wilson is disqualified for being a member 
of the House of the People . This was also one of the main points on which the 
election petition was flled by Shri Tripathi and an issue (No. 8 ) was specifically 
framed by the Tribunal to decide the point. The Tribunal, however , came to the 
conclusion that the use of the aeroplane by Shri Wilson did not amount to a 
corrupt practice . 

Under article 329 (b ) of the Constitution , no election to the House of the 
People can be called in question except by an election petition , and since the 
petition filed by Shri Tripathi has been dismissed , it is not permissible for him 
to re -agitate the question in another form . 

Clause ( e ) of article 102 of the Constitution under which the question of 
Shri Wilson s disqualification has been raised by Shri Tripathi relates to dis 
qualification by or under any law made by Parliament. It therefore seems Shri 
Tripathi s contention is that Shri Wilson is disqualified under section 7 ( a ) of the 
Representation of the People Act , 1951 for having committed a major corrupt 
practice mentioned in section 140 of that Act. But as the Tribunal has specifically 
recorded that no corrupt practice was committed by Shri Wilson , the question of 
any disqualification under section 7 ( a ) of the Representation of the People Act, 
1961 read with article 102 of the Constitution , does not arise, 
- The Commission is therefore of the opinion that the petition should be rejected 
and it should be decided that Shri Wilson , M . P ., has not become subject to any of 
the disqualifications mentioned in article 102 of the Constitution . 


The 28th December 1953. 


( Sd.) S. SEN , 
Chief Election Commissioner . 


[No. F .69 (3 ) /66 -L .] 
K . V . K . SUNDARAM , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 


S . R . O . 337. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 299 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Law No. S . R . O . 215 dated the 9th February, 1952, relating to the execution 
of contracts and assurances of property , namely 


In Part V of the said notification , under Head A , in item 3 , after the words 

" by Collectors of Districts " , the words " or Circle Superintendents , 
Central Department of Archaeology " shall be added . 

[ F . 32 - III /52 -L .] 


B . N . LOKUR , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 20th January 1954 


S . R . O . 338. In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late Depart 
ment of Communications No. R - 60 , dated the 28th June, 1939, the President hereby 
directs that the Chief Commissioners of Delhi, Ajmer and Coorg shall, subject to 
the control of the President and until further orders, exercise the powers and 
discharge the functions of the State Government under the Motor Vehicles Act , 
1939 ( IV of 1939 ) within their respective Ştates. 

[No. 43 / 36 / 53 - Judl- I.] 


234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[PART II Sec. 3 


= 


S . R . O . 339 . — In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 243 of the Constitution and 
in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late Depart 
ment of Communications No . R - 60 , dated the 28th June, 1939 , the President hereby 
directs that the Chief Commissioner of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands shali, 
subject to the control of the President and until further orders , exercise the powers 
and discharge the functions of the State Government under the Motor Vehicles 
Act, 1939 ( IV of 1939 ) within the said Islands, 

[No. 43 /36 / 53 - Judl - II. ] 
N . SAHGAL , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1964 
S . R . O . 340 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) Qf section 
63 of the Andhra State Act, 1953 730 of 1953 ) , the President hereby requires all 
persons specified by name in column ( 1 ) or by official designation in column ( 2 ) 
of the Schedule to this Order, to serve in connection with the affairs of the State 
of Andhra , as allotted officers or as transferred officers, as stated in the corres 
ponding entries in column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


- - - - 


- - - 


Name 


Official Designation 


Allotted Officer or 
Transferred Officer 


V . Kannan . 
D . Pachiappan 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Madras Women s Welfare Department 

Headquarters establishment 
. . Peon . . . . Allotted Officer . 
. . Peon . . . . . Allotted Officer . 
Madras Highways Department 
. Technical Assistant tº the Allotted Officer. 

Chief Engineer (Highways). 
Madras Public Works Department 
. . Executive Engineer . . Transferred Officer. 


Sri A , N . Damodaram Naidu 


Sri J. I. Coll Pillai . 


. 


[No. 26 / 4 /53 -AIS ( I ) .] 
N . N . CHATTERJEE , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 25th January 1954 
S . R . O . 341. In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1. Shri Ranjitsinhji Harbhamji, and 

2. Shri Prabhatsinhji Harbhamji, 
members of the family of the Ruler of Morvi for the purposes of that entry . 

This Ministry s notification No . S . R . O . 2211, dated the 1st December 1953 is 
hereby cancelled , 

[No. 7 - D .] 
S . K . AYANGAR , Under Secy . 


PART II _ Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1964 


235 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Economic Affairs 

New Delhi, the 19th January 1954 
S . R . O . 342. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( X of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 11 
of the said Act shall not apply to the Premier Bank of India Ltd . for a period up 
to and including the 31st March 1955 . 

[ No. F .4 ( 2 ) - F .1 / 54 .] 
N . C . SEN GUPTA , Dy . Secy. 


Department of Economic Affairs 

CHARTERED ACCOUNTANCY 

New Delhi, the 30th January 1954 
S . R . O . 343 . - In pursuance of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 13 of the Chartered 
Accountants Act , 1949 (Act No . XXXVIII of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby 
nominates Mr. F . A , Cole of Messrs . A , F . Ferguson & Co ., Allahabad Bank Build 
ings, Apollo Street, Bombay to the Council of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India vice Mr. A , H . Just, resigned . 

[ No . 66 (3 ) -ICA /53.] 
B . K . KAUL , Dy. Secy . 


Office of the Controller of Capital Issues 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd January, 1954 
S . R . O . 344 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
6 of the Cupital Issues (Continuance of Control) Act, 1947 (XXIX of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the Capital Issues ( Exemption ) Order , 1949, published with the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance No. F . 14 ( 1 ) -CCI/ 49 , dated the 
20th January , 1949 , and that the said amendment shall be deemed to have had 
effect as from the 31st January , 1953 , namely : 

For sub -clause ( c ) of clause 3 of the said Order , the following sub -clause shall 
be substituted , namely : 
" ( c ) Loans granted , and debentures taken up , by the Industrial Finance 

Corporation constituted under the Industrial Finance Corporation 
Act , 1948 (XV of 1948 ) , or any State Financial Corporation constitu 
ted under the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (LXIII of 1951) 
or by the Madras Industrial Investment Corporation Limited ." 

[ No. F . 14 ( 5 ) -CCI/ 53 /211. ] 

D . L . MAZUMDAR , 
Controller of Capital Issues. 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 
S . R . O . 345 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , the Central Government hereby directs that power 
alcohol shall be exempt from the whole of the duty leviable thercon under section 
3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , provided that: 
( i) it is proved to the satisfaction of the Collector of Central Excise that 

such power alcohol is intended for use in the manufacture of acetic 
acid and ethyl acetate , and shall not be used for providing motive 
power for any form of motor vehicle or aircraft, and 


236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II — SEC. 3 


( ii) the procedure set out in Chapter X of the said Ruleg is followed in 
respect of obtaining remission of duty on such power alcohol. 

[No. 2.) 
M . P . ALEXANDER , Under Secy . 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 


tax Act, 1326. in pursuance of chi, the 15th Jan 


S . R . O . 346 . - - In pursuance of sub -section ( 4 ) of Section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue directs that the follow 
ing further amendments shall be made in the Schedule appended to its Notification 
No. 32 - IT , dated the 9th November, 1946 : 
In the said Schedule , under the sub - head " III - A Bombay North .” — 
( 1 ) Against Ahmedabad Range II , the entry " Ahmedabad Circle II , exclud 

ing Ward - C ” , shall be substituted for the existing entry " Ahmedabad 

Circle II” ; 
( 2 ) Against Ahmedabad Range III , the entries " Ahmedabad Circle II, Ward 

C " and " Petlad Circle " shall be added after the existing entry 

“ Viramgam Circle " ; and 
( 3 ) Against Baroda Range, the last entry " Petlad Circle" shall be deleted . 

[No. 5.) 
G . L . POPHALE, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 20th January 1954 
S .R .O . 347. — The following draft of certain rules which it is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( I of 1937 ) , is published as required by the said 
section , for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after the 20th 
February, 1964 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft rules 
1. Short title and application , – (i ) These rules may be called the Essential Oils 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1953 . 

( ii) They shall apply to essential oils produced in India . 

2 . Grade designations. — Grade designations to indicate the quality of essential 
olls produced in India shall be as set out in column I of Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules . 

3 . Definition of quality . - - The quality indicated by the grade designations shall 
be as set out against such designations in columns 2 to 7 of Schedules III and IV 
annexed to the Rules . 

4 . Grade designation marks. The grade designation mark shall consist of a 
label, bearing a design ( consisting of an outline map of India with the word 
" AGMARK " and the figure of the rising Sun with words " Produce of India " ) 
resembling that set out in Schedule I specifying the name of the essential oil, the 
grade designation and in colours specified in the aforesaid Schedule , 

5. Method of Marking – (i) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
applied to each container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India and the following particulars shall be marked 
on the container or the label : — 

( a ) name of packer ; 
( b ) place of packing; 
( c ) date of packing; and 
( d ) lot number . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1984 


237 


( ii ) An authorised packer may after obtaining the previous approval of the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India , mark his private 
trade mark on a container in a manner approved by the said officer: Provided 
that the private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of essential oil 
different from that indicated by the grade designation mark aflixed on the con 
tainer in accordance with the said Rules. 

( iii) Only clean containers which shall be securely closed and sealed in a 
manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India shall be used for packing . 

6 . Special conditions of certificate of authorisation . In addition to the condi 
tions specified In rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules , 1937, the con 
ditions set out in Schedule II, shall also be the conditions subject to which a certi 
ficate of authorisation is issued for the purposes of rules . 

SCHEDULE I 
(a ) Grade designation mark for Essential Oils, 

( See rule 4 ) 


SAGMARK 


Hragrafit 


OO 


ONI 


a ww gun Jorstar 
var slot eva , 


= 


(b ) Colour scheme. 

( i) Lemongrass oil. 
Grade designation Colour of lettering showing the 

grade 
Special 

Red 
Grade A 

Green 


Colour of border of the labe 


Red 
Green 


238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


( ii) Sandalwood oil. 
Grade designation Colour of lettering showing the 


Colour of border of the label 


grade 


Grade A Red 

Red 
SCHEDULE II 

( Sed rule 6 ) 
( a ) An authorised packer shall have suitable arrangements for filtration , 
blending , and storage of essential oils . 

( b ) If an authorised packer handles more than one essential oil on the same 
premises , adequate precautions shall be taken to avoid the mixing of different oils . 

( c ) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing essential 
oils as may be prescribed , and a duplicate sample from each lot of essential oil 
to be graded shall be forwarded to such Control Laboratory as may be notified 
from time to time by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India . 

( d ) All instructions regarding the methods of sampling, analysis packing etc . 
which may from time to time be issued by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to 
the Government of India , consistent with the provisions of the Act and the rules 
made thereunder , shall be strictly observed . 

SCHEDULE III 
Grade designations and definition of quality of East Indian Lemongrass Oil (Cochin Lemongrass Oil ) 
( See rules 2 and 3 ) 

- ~ 
Physiochemical characteristics 


Grate designation and defi 


Grade 
designation 


Specific 

gravity 
at 30°/ 30° C . 


Description and 

appearance 


Optical Refractive Total Solubility 
rotation Index at aldehyde in 70 % 
30° C . I (Citral) (by volume) 

content ethyl 
(determined alcohol 
by bisulphite 
method ) 

5 


Special 


0 . 888 to 
0 . 898 


$ 1° to 1 . 4808 to Not less than Soluble The East Indian 
-- -3° 1 . 4868 80 % 

in 2 to 3 Lemongress oil 
volumea . 8ball be the reddish 

yellow to brown 
mobile cosential oil 
obtained by the 
process of steam 
distillation and /or 
water distillation 
of clean Cymbopogon 
flexuoustAS (D . C .) 

Staff, plants and 
$ 1° to 3° 1 . 4808 to Not legs Soluble in shall be free from 
1 .4868 than 76 % 2 to 3 admixture with any 

volumes. other oil or subs 

tance . 
It shall have a lemon 
ilkę odour and shall 
be clear , free from 
any sediment , and 
suspended matter . 
It shall be dry . 


Grade A 


. 


0 -888 to 
0 . 898 


* The specifications are based on The Indian Standard Specification For Lemongrass Oil 
( IS : 327 - 1952 ). 

# The correction factor for specific gravity for cach degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be - 0 . 00079 . 

The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigrade risc in temperature 
shall be - 0 .00044. 

The actual citral content shall be sultably indicated . 


239 


- 


- 


- 


= 


= = 


S 


PART II — Src , 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 
- - = 

= 

SCHEDULE IV + 
Grade designations and definition of quality of East Indian Sandalwood Oil 

( Sec rules 2 and 3) 


Physiochemical characteristics 


Grade 
designation 


Specific Optical 
Gravity rotation 
at 30 " /30° C . 


Refractive 
index at 

30° C . 


Description and 

appearance 


Total Solubility 
alcohol in 70 % 
( Santalol) (by volume) 
content ethyl 

alcohol 
5 


1 


2 


3 


4 


The East Indian 
Sandalwood oil 
shall be the pale 
yellow or nearly 
colourless essential 
oil obtained by 
steam distillation 
and /or water dis 
tillation of Santalum 
album , Linn only , 
and shall be frec 
from admixture 
with any other oil 
or substance . 


Grade A 


0 . 9620 to 
0 . 9760 


- 15° to 
- 200 


I° 4990 to Not lçgg Soluble in 5 It shall be clear , free 
1 . 5060 than 90 % volumes from sediment and 

suspended matter . 
It shall be dry and 
shall have the 
characteristic faint 
but persistent odour 
and unpleasant 
taste . 


The specifications are based on the Indian Stapdard Specification for Sandalwood Out 
( IS : 329 - 1952 .) 

# The correction factor for specific gravity for cach degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be - 0 . 00070 . 

# The correction factor for refractive index for each degree Centigrade rise in temperature 
shall be - 0 . 00039. 

[No. F . 5 -86 /52-Dte .II.) 
S . D . UDHRAIN , Under Secy . 


(Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 
S . R . O . 348. — The following draft of the following further amendments to the 
Indian Oilseeds Committee Rules , 1947, which it is proposed to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 
( LX of 1946 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section , for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 20th February , 
1954 , 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


240 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1854 [PART II — SEC. 3 
r . - ~ 

Draft Amendments 
In the said rules : 

( 1) in rule 24 , sub - rule ( 3 ) shall be omitted and sub - rule (4 ) shall be re -number 
ed as sub - rule ( 3 ) . 

( 2 ) In rule 25 , after sub -rule ( 1 ) the following sub -rule may be inserted , 
namely : 
( 1A ) The President of the Committee may sanction a variation in any 

approved scheme upto the following financial limits, namely : 
( a ) where the cost of the approved scheme is Rs, 50, 000 or less , Rs. 5 , 000 ; 
( b ) where the cost of the approved scheme exceeds Rs. 50 ,000 , Rs. 10 .000 

provided that such variation is not inconsistent with the nature and 
object of the scheme Itsclf . 

[No. F .5 - 109 /51-Com - I.] 
F . C . GERA , Under Secy . 

- - - - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 18th January 1954 
S . R . O . 349 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the film entitled My Son John in respect of which U certificate No. 7264 , dated 
the 15th December 1952 was granted by the Central Board of Film Censors to 
Messrs. Paramount Films of India Ltd ., Bombay, shall be deemed to be an uncer 
tifled film in the whole of India , 

[ F . No. 12 / 28 / 53 -FII.] 

D . KRISHNA AYYAAR , Under Scry . 
New Delhi, the 19th January 1954 
S . R . O . 380.. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 17 of the Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts 
cinematograph exhibition of educational Alms in the premises of educational insti 
tutions in all Part C States from the operation of section 10 of the aforesaid Act, 
subject to the following conditions: - - 
1. Only Alms of a predominantly educational nature , certified as such by 

the Central Board of Film Censors or one of the former State Boards, 

shall be so exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
2 . No Alm which has been certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 

or a former State Board of Film Censors as suitable for public exhibi 
tion restricted to adults only shall be cxhibited or permitted to be 

exhibited to a person who is not an adult . 
3 . No film which has been declared as uncertified or whose exhibition has 

been suspended under the Cinematograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) 

shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
4 . No admission fee , except to the cxtent required to cover expenses , shall 

be charged . 
5 . No person other than students and staff of the institution , members of the 

Managing Committees of the institutions and any guest specially 
invited by the authorities of the institutions and those enumerated 

under condition ( 11 ) below shall be admitted to the show . 
6 . Only 16 mm , non - inflammable or 35 mm . non - inflammable films and Alm 

strips shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
7 . No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited . 
8 . The licensing authority shall be informed at least 48 hours in advance of 

the time and place of such exhibition . 
9 . All institutions which avail themselves of this exemption shall maintain 

a register of the Alms exhibited and comply with any other directions 
that may be issued in this behalf by the State Government. The 
register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised officers of the 

State Government. 
10 . This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from 

the date of issue of this notification , unless revoked earlier . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

241 

5 : - S 
11. Employees of the State Government, members of the Central Board of 

Film Censors and of its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant 
Regional Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their official 
duties shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions are held 
and to the film shows . 

[No. 20 / 14 / 51 -FII.] 
C . B . RAO , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 22nd January 1954 
S . R . O . 351. - -The Central Government being satisfied that it is in the public 
interest so to do, is pleased, in exercise of its powers under Section 12 of the 
Mines and Minerals ( Regulation and Development) Act ( LIII of 1948 ) to authorise 
the grant by the Government of West Bengal of certificates of approval, exploring 
licences , prospecting licenses and mining leases as provided in sub - clause ( a ) of 
clause 1 of the Joint Operating Agreement, dated 24th December 1953 between the 
Standard Vacuum Oil Company and the Government of India . 

[No. 179 ( 1 ) / 54 -MII. ] 
M . MALHOTRA , Under Secy , 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

( Central Bollers Board ) 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 
S . R . O . 352. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950 , which the Central Boilers Board propose to make in exercise 
of the power conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 ( V of 1923 ) , 
is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 31 of the said Act , for 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is thereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st March 
1954 , 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Boilers Board . Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to the Secre 
tary , Central Boilers Board , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , North Block , 
New Delhi. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Regulations 
1. In regulation 392, 
( 1) For the existing heading, the following heading shall be substituted , 

namely — 
" Repairs to Boilers and Steam Pipes" . 
(1 ) After the word " girders" appearing in the fourth line, the words " and 

steam pipes " shall be inserted . 
2 . In Regulation 281, the following words shall be added at the end , namely 
" In the case of boilers Atted with integral superheaters , an additional safety 

valve shall be fitted at the end of the outlet header " . 
3 . For Regulation 534 the following shall be substituted , namely 
( a ) Every economiser shall have a plate with its registry number engraved , 

secured in a conspicuous place and wherever practicable stamped for 

identification with that number in a prominent place, 
( b ) A letter " E " shall be prefixed to the registry number in the denomi 

nator of the appropriate device as shown in Regulation 382, Example : 
UP 53 . 


242 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [ PART II — SEC . 3 

- - - - - - - - - 
4 . In regulation 123 , after clause (a ) the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( aa ) In the case of vertical boilers where tube plates form part of the 

firebox , the tube plate portion may be constructed in two vertical 

sections and the vertical seams when welded shall be stress relieved ." 
5 . In Regulation 316 , in clause ( b ) the words " riveted to the shell " appearing 
in the second line shall be omitted . 

6 . In Regulation 314 , after the words " on end” the words “ on a horizontal 
plane" shall be inserted . 

[ No. BL - 304 ( 12 ) /53. ] 


S . R . O . 353. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 ( V of 1923 ) , the Central Boilers Board hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the Indian Boiler Regulations. 
1960, the same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 31 of the said Act, namely : 

After clause ( c ) of regulation 335 of the said Regulations, the following clause 
shall be inserted , namely : — 
" ( d ) The discharge end of feed pipe shall be so located that it is not close 
to any riveted joint of the furnace plates or of the shell." 

[ No. BL -304 ( 3) /52.] 
S . R . O . 354, - - In pursuance of clause ( s ) of regulation 4 of the Indian Boiler 
Regulations, 1950, the Central Boilers Board hereby recognises the following 
further firms as " Well-known" Steel Makers in terms of the Indian Boller Regu 
lations, 1950 , namely : 

1 . Messrs. South Durham Steel & Iron Co . Ltd ., United Kingdom . 
2. Messrs. Steel Company of Scotland Ltd ., United Kingdom , 

[ No . BL -334 ( 1) /52. ) 

H . K . BANSAL , 
Secretary , Central Boilers Board . 


REGISTRAR JOINT STOCK COMPANIES 

NOTICES 

Bombay , the 20th January, 1954 
In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Karnatak 

Tractor Cultivation & Allied Industries Limited . 
S . R . O . 355 . - Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Karnatak Tractor Cultivation & Allied Industries Limited , 
will, unless cause is shown to the contrary , be struck off the Register and the 
said Company will be dissolved . 

[No. 8756 . ) 


Bombay, the 24th January , 1964 


In the matter of the Indian Companies Act, VII of 1913 and of the Shreedhar & 

Co ., Limited. 
S .R . O . 356, - Notice is hereby given pursuant to Section 247 of the Indian 
Companies Act VII of 1913 , that at the expiration of three months from the date 
hereof the name of the Shreedhar & Co ., Limited ., will, unless cause is shown to 
the contrary , be struck off the Register and the said Company will be dissolved . 

[No. 6431. ] 
M . V . VARERKAR , 
Registrar of Companies, Bombay . 


PART II - Sec. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


243 


mT 
US3 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 22nd January , 1954 
S .R . O . 357 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Ordinance, 1954 

(No. 3 of 1954 ) , I delegate the powers specified below to all the Settlement Com 
missioners to be exercised by them in relation to revision of cases to be decided 
under the said Ordinance : - 
Proviso to Sub - Section ( 3 ) of Section 4 . – Power to call for the record of 

any case which has been decided by the Settlement Officer and to 
make such order as he thinks fit . 

[ No . 3 (2) CSC /Genl./ C .W ./ 54.] 
S . R . O . 358 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub -section (2 ) 
of Section 10 of thc Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Ordinance , 1954 
(No. 3 of 1954 ) , I delegate the powers specified below to Shri R . K . Vaish , 
Settlement Commissioner to be excrcised by him for performing the functions 
assigned to me under the Ordinance : - - 
1 . Proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 4 . - Power to allocate or distribute 

Cuses to be decided by Settlement Officers . 
2 . Proviso to sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6 . - Power to require a Settlement 

Officer to appoint one or more persons as asSCSsors to advise him in 

any proceeding before him . 
3 . Section 7. -- Power to transfer a case pending before a Settlement Officer 
to another Settlement Officer . 

[ No. 3 (2 -a )CSC /Genl./C .W ./54.] 
S . R . O . 359 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Supplementary Ordinance, 1954 
(No. 3 of 1954 ) , I delegate the powers specified below to all the Settlement 
Commissioners and Additional Settlement Commissioners to be exercised by them 
in relation to revision of cases decided under the Principal Act : 
Section 5 . - Special povrcrs of revision in respect of the cascs dccided under 
the Principal Art 

[No. 3 ( 3) CSC / Genl./ C . W . / 54 ] 

N . C . SHRIVASTAVA, 
Chief Settlement Commissioner 

I & Joint Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 20th January 1954 
S . R . O . 360. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
19 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 XI of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 1852, dated the 3rd 
October, 1953, namely : 

In the schedule to the said notification in column 2 for the entry " The States 
of Madras , Mysore, Travancore - Cochin and Coorg" the entry " The States of 
Madras , Andhra , Mysore , Travancore -Cochin and Coorg shall be substituted . 

[ NO . LWI 24 (60 ) . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 21st January 1954 
S . R . O . 361. - In the notification of the Ministry of Labour No, S . R . O . 1787, dated 
the 17th September 1953 , published at pages 1502 - 4 in Part II , Section 3 of the 
Gazette of India , dated the 26th September 1953, in sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 1 for 
" 1982" read " 1953 " , 

[No. M -41 ( 25 ) 52. ] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy . 


244 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II - - SEC . 3 


New Delhi, the 20th January 1954 
S . R . O . 362 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Hrisikesh Digor, a workman of Saltore Colliery . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 92 OF 1953 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave , B . A ., LL .B ., Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Sree Hrisikesh Digor, Assistant Electrician , Saltore Colliery , Saltore P . O . 
Dist. Manbhum , Bihar -- Complainant. 

Vs. 
Messrs. Burrakur Coal Co . Ltd ., Saltore Colliery, P .O . Saltore , District 
Manbhum , Bihar - Opposite Party . 

APPEARANCES 
Shri Kanti Mchta , General Secretary , Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 

Opposite Imperial Bank of India , Dhanbad , Bihar - - For the 

Complainant. 
Shri D . N . Gupta , Chief Personnel Officer, M / s , Bird & Co. Ltd ., P . O . Sijua , 
Dist. Manbhum - For the Opposite Party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
2. The complainant alleges as under : 

He was working as an elcctrician at the Saltore Colliery of the opposite party 
for over eight years . One Aslıu Mistry was working as Head Electrician and the 
complainant was the next man in seniority and efficiency in the department. As 
Ashu Mistry was due to retire shortly , the complainant gave an application to the 
Manager on 15th July 1952 requesting that he be promoted as Head Electrician 
on Ashu s retirement. The Manager considered the application and granted it 
and passed an order on the application as " settled " . One A . K . Sen , who was 
working as an electrician in the Standard Colliery of the opposite party , had been 
transferred on the closure of that colliery to Mudidih - Bhadruchawk colliery which 
is another colliery of the opposite party and he was suddenly transferred therefrom 
to the Saltore Colliery . The complainant believed that the said Sen was in good 
relation with the Electrical Engineer and his transfer to Saltore Colliery on the 
eve of Ashu s retirement was with a view to appointing him to that post. There 
upon the complainant renewed his application for promotion on 12th August 1952 
through the President of the Workmen s Union . The Manager was annoyed at 
this and took the complainant to task . The complainant thereupon again com 
plained to the Union . In order to make way for Sen for the post of Head 
Electrician and also to get rid of the complainant, the opposite party issued a 
charge - sheet to the complainant on false and frivolous grounds . Without proper 
investigation and without taking express permission of the Tribunal, the opposite 
party dismissed the complainant from service from 10th December 1952. The 
complainant therefore fled the present application requesting that his dismissal 
was illegal and wrong and stating that he was entitled to be reinstated with all 
back pay and compensation and also to the promotion in the usual course. 

3 . The opposite party filed written statement Exhibit 4 contending inter alia 
that the application was bad in law and was not maintainable . They denied that 
the complainant was working as an Electrician and urged that he was an Electric 
Fitter and not an Electrician , They also denied that he was the next man to 
Ashu in seniority or in efficiency . They denied the allegation that the com 
plainant gave an application on 15th July , 1952 or that the Manager granted it or 
that he passed an order on it that it was settled . It is then contended that A . K , 
Sen was transferred to Saltore Colliery in the ordinary course of business and the 
allegations and insinuations made by the complainant are false and mischievous. 
When the complainant gave an application on 12th August 1952, he was informed 
that there was no knowledge when Ashu would retire and that the question would 
be considered at the time of Ashu s retirement. The management denied that they 


PART II - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


245 


were annoyed with the complainant or took him to task . They denied that the 
charge - sheet issued against the complainant was false or frivolous or that it was 
issued in order that A . K . Sen may be appointed as Head Electrician and in order 
to get rid of the complainant. The management alleged that the complainant was 
charged with insubordination and intentional insult towards the engineer ; he was 
found guilty of this charge and was thercupon dismissed according to the standing 
orders. It was denied that proper investigations had not becn made . In the end , 
the management urged thut the application should be dismissed . 

4 . At the hearing, a preliminary point was taken before me against the main 
tainability of the present application . It was urged that the management had not 
committed breach of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act because they had not 
dismissed the complainant during the pendency of a Reference before the Tribunal. 
It is an admitted Tact that the complainant was dismissed by the management by 
a letter dated 16th December 1952 for an incident which is said to have occurred 
on 10th December 1952. The complainant s case is that at that time, Reference 
No. 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal and it was therefore incumbent 
on the management under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act to obtain the 
express permission in writing from the Tribunal before dismissing the complainant. 
On the other hand , the management urged that at the relcyant date, no reference 
was pending. 

5 . A dispute relating to paid holidays between 1078 collieries ( including the 
present opposite party ) and their workmen was referred for adjudication to this 
Tribunal by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour, by their Order No. LR . 
2 ( 365 ) , dated 5th May 1952. My predecessor Mr. Varma retired on 31st May 1952 . 
The post of Chairman of this Tribunal remained vacant till my appointment. On 
my appointment, the Government passed an order on 4th February 1953 referring 
the above dispute and other disputes which were then pending before this Tribunal 
for adjudication to this Tribunal. 

6 . The contention of Mr. Gupta on behalf of the opposite party is that in 
December 1952, there was no Chairman of this Tribunal and there was thus no 
pending reference before this Tribunal. He urged that the abovo reference should 
be said to have been pending only from 4th February 1953 when the Government 
made another order referring the pending disputes to this Tribunal. I do not 
agree with this contention . It may be noted at the outset that the order of 
reference by the Government on 5th May 1952 was not to Mr. S . P . Varma by name, 
but it was an order referring the dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad . Similarly the order dated , 4th February 
1953 was not an order referring the disputes for adjudication to me by name but 
it was an order referring the matter for adjudication to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad . It is true that the post of the Chairman was 
vacant from 1st June 1952 to 6th February 1953 ; but that would not mean that 
there was no Tribunal at Dhanbad . Under Section 20 ( 3 ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , the proceedings before a Tribunal are to be deemed to have commenced on 
the date of reference of dispute and such proceedings shall be deemed to have 
concluded on the date on which the award becomes enforceable . The proceedings 
before the Tribunal therefore commenced on the date of reference namely on 5th 
May 1952 and they have concluded only when an award was passed by me and it 
became entorceable . In my opinion , the retirement of Mr. Varma made no 
difference to the pendency of the Reference . It would not mean that the pro 
ceedings came to an end ; because , as I said above , the Reference was not made to 
Mr. Varma by name but to the Tribunal and though Mr. Varma may have retired , 
the Tribunal did not cease to exist and the above dispute was pending before 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad even in December 1952, 
and the opposite party was not entitled to dismiss any workman without obtaining 
the permission of the Tribunal as required by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. Their dismissal of the complainant thercfore amounted to a brcach of 
Section 33 and the complainant is therefore entitled to file this application under 
Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

7 . Coming to the merits of the case , the complainant was dismissed for an 
incident which is said to have occurred on 10th December 1952 . According to 
the management, the complainant was guilty of insubordination and insulting the 
engineer in his office. It is said that on that day the enginecr (Mr. Chourluri) 
called the complainant and others to his office and told them that there were some 
unauthorised connections which had to be cut off . It is alleged that the com 
plainant said that he would not do so and thereupon the engineer yaid that if he slid 
not do it , he would himself liave to do it. It is further alleged that on this the com 
plainant became angry and abused and threatened the engineer . The engineer 
made a report about it ( Exhibit 21 ) to the Manager and thereupon n charge sheet 
Was served on the complainant, who depied the allegations. The management 


246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II - SEC. 3 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


urged that on enquiry it was found that the allegations were true and therefore 
they dismissed him . 

8 . On the other hand , the complainant alleges that on 10th December 1952 he 
was called by the cngineer who told him to cut off some unauthorised connections. 
He thereupon told the engineer that on a previous occasion when he went to cut 
off some unauthorised connections, hc was assaulted by the workmen and he there 
tore requested that either the engineer himself should go with him or that some 
one clse should be sent with him . On this , thc cngineer told the complainant that 
he had become a grcat man and that is why he wanted a pcon to go with him . 
The complainant told the engineer that he should not use such language and at 
this the engincer got angry and pushed him out of his office. The complainant 
admits that a charge shcet was served on him but donies that any enquiry was 
held . He also alleges that he was falscly charged with the charges of insubordi 
nation and with abusing the engineer , because the management wanted to get rid 
of him as the managenient wanted to appoint onc Mr. Sen as the llcad Elcririclun . 

9 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working in the Electrical 
Department of the Saltore Colliery from about 1946 . He says that he started as 
an Assistant Electrician and that in 1947 or thereabouts , he was promoted as an 
electrician . He has further said that onc Ashu Mistry was the head electrician and 
that this Ashu was due to retire in July 1952 and at that time he ( i.e . the com 
plainant) was the next man in seniority and efficiency in that department in the 
colliery . The management allege that the complainant was not an electrician or 
Assistan ! Electrician but was only an electric fitter. They have urged in para. 7 of 
their written statement that in their letter of 15th August 1952 they had pointed out 
that the designation of the complainant was not Assistant Electrician but that he 
was only an electric fitter . It is further alleged in the written statement that a 
copy of the manager s letter was filled therewith and was marked A . Annexure 
A to the writton statement, however, does not mention that the complainant s 
designation was not Assistant Electrician nor does it mention that he was an 
electric fitter . The complainant in his eyidence ( Exhibit 17 ) has stated that he 
was appointed as an Assistant Electrician but was later on promoted as Electrician . 
He is corroborated in this respect by several letters etc . of the management, 
Exhibit 12 is a certificate granted to the complainant by the then manager on 14th 
April 1950 mentioning therein that the complainant had been working in the 
collicry as electrician , Another manager of the colliery gave him a certificate 
Exhibit 13 on 10th July 1951 mentioning that the complainant had been working 
in the colliery for six years as an electrician in charge. In the letters Exhibits 24 
and 25 written by the manager to the complainant on 4th August 1947 and 12th 
September 1947 respectively regarding the grant of leave, he was described as 
Assistant Electrician and Electrician respectively . The letter of appointment 
Exhibit 26 mentioned that the complainant was appointed as electrician . In the 
letter , Exhibit 20 , dated 24th December 1952 written to the complainant by the 
Manager after he was dismissed , the complainant has been described as Ex . 
Electrician . From all these documents , it would be apparent that the complainant 
must have been appointed and designated as Assistant Elcctrician or Electrician , 

10 . As against this, the only evidence led on behalf of the management is the 
evidence of the engineer Mr. Choudhuri Exhibit 28 , who said that the complainant 
was working as Electric Fitter . He could not explain as to why the complainant 
was described in the different letters as Assistant Electrician and Electrician . All 
that he said was that in the wage sheets the complainant was shown and described 
as an Electric Fitter, The management have filled the wage shects Exhibits 22 
and 23 for the week ending 29th December 1945 and some weeks of 1946 . They 
have not flled wage sheets for any later period , Wage sheet Exhibit 22 does not 
contain the complainant s name. The wage sheet Exhibit 23 contains his name 
describing him as an Electric Fitter . But this only meant he was described as 
Electric Fitter in 1946 . It would not mean that he was not designated as Assistant 
Electrician or an Electrician later on , I believe the complainant s case and hold 
that he was designated as Assistant Electrician and Electrician . I may however 
mention that what his designation was would not be very material for the purpose 
of this case . 

11. It is an admitted fact that one Ashu Mistry was Head Electrician in this 
colliery . It is alleged by the complainant that this Ashu was due to retire in 1952 
and that at that tinc he ( i.e , the complainant) was the man next to him ( Ashu ) in 
seniority and efficiency and he therefore requested the management that after 
Ashu s retirement he should be promoted to Ashu s post . The management deny 
that the complainant was the man ncxt in seniority and efficiency to Ashu . They 
have urged that one Abdul Aziz was senior to the complainant. It appears from 
the wage shects Exhibits 22 and 23 that Abdul Aziz joined service from 27th Decem 
ber 1945 while the complainant joined service from 20th January 1946. This 


PAPT II - SEC 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 


247 


however would not mean that Abdul Aziz would be senior to the complainant It 
only means that Abdul Aziz has put in more service than the complainant The 
wage sheet Exhibit 23 shows that Aziz was being paid at the rate of Rs 1 - 4 - 0 per 
day while the complainant was paid at the rate of Rs 1 - 8 - 0 per day Though 
Abdul Aziz had joined service about 3 to 4 weeks before the complainant, the 
complainant was paid at a higher rate and this would prima facie mean that he 
wa , senior to Abdul Aziz In this connection , I may also refer to letter Exhibit 16 
add essed to the Union by several employees of the Electricity Department includ 
in the complainant and Abdul Aziz in that letter , they urged tnat the com 
plau ant should be puomoted in the place of Ashu Mistry and that Abdul Aziz 
should be promoted in the place of complainant In other words, Abdul Aziz 
aa . a + ted that the complainant was senior to him I am thus satisfied that in 
Jail 211 1952 the complainant was the man seniormost in the electrical depart 
mcil ] +ne colliery next to Ashu Vistry 

l _ Regarding efficiency we hae norvidence l mav however mention that 
the management hulp not liged that the conıplainant was inefficient or that any 
on rol was nur efhcient whan the coinplainan 1 may her cfore be taken that 
the omplainant was also the man next in efficiency to Ashu Mistry in 1952 

in The complainant s alleg , tions that as Ashu was due to retire , he approach 
ed ine management and iequested tnat he should be or moted as head electrician 
on thr place of Ashu mistiy when he retired , and that the management agreed to 
this Its further alleged tnat subuequent to this one Åk Sen was brought in 
to this colliery with a vien to promoting him as Herd Electrician in the place of 
Ashu mistry It is urged that it was a case ot victimisation and that when the 
complainant protested against it the management put up a false charge against 
him and dismissed him 


14 So far as the charge of victimisation ( in tiansferring Sen to this Collier y ) 
is concerned I am not satisfied that it has been made out It has been said that 
A K Sen was related to the engineei Mr Choudauri or is as his special favourite 
and that is why he was brought here There is no evidence to show that Sen was 
a special favourite of Mr Choudhuri or that he was in any way related to or 
connected with him I may then mention that the appointment of the Head 
Electrician was not within the power of the engineer , or for the matter of that even 
the manager Of course , they could make a recommendation in the matter It 
is however to be noted that A K Sen was already in the service of another colliery 
which was managed by the same Managing Agents as the present colliery He was 
serving in the Standard Collier v It is an admitted fact that the Standard Colliery 
was closed and thereupon Sen was transferred from the Standard Colliery to 
Mudidih Bhadıuchawk Colliery and it was therefrom that he was transferred to 
the present colliery This transfer was not and could not be effected by either 
the engineer (Mr Choudhuin ) or the inanager of this colliery It could not there 
fore be said that Sen was appointed in this colliery because he was a favourite 
of Mr Choudhuri 


15 At this stage, I must mention that the management have every right to 
appoint or promote any one they think fit to a particulai post, especially the higher 
or selection posts , and no one could claim it as of right, merely on the ground of 
seniority , provided they act bonafide In the present case, Mr Sen was working 
in the Standard Colliery as Head Electrician He was in the service of that 
colliery from 1942, that is , from before the complainant joined the present colliery 
in 1946 The Standard Colliery was closed down somewhere in about 1951 There 
upon Mr A K Sen was transferred to Mudidih Bhadruchawk colliery and it 
was from that colliery that he was transferred to the Saltore Colliery " Though 
the Standard Colliery belonged to the Standard Coal Co Ltd and the Saltore 
Colliery belongs to the Burrakur Coal Co Ltd , we have to remember that both 
the collieries as well as Mudidih Bhadruchawk colliery are all under the manage 
ment of Messis Bird & Co Ltd In the draft standing orders of the coal industry , 
a provision has been made that an employee could be transferred from one colliery 
to another under the same management, that is , under the same managing agents 
In this connection , I may also refer to para 5 of the complaint filed by the com 
plainant where he has mentioned that A K Sen was originally working as an 
electrician in the Standard Colliery of the opposite party and after the closure 
of the colliery was transferred to Mudidih Bhadruchawk , another colliery of 
the company (opposite party ) This shows that the workmen in general and the 
complainant in particular recognised that the Standard Colliery , Mudidih 
Bhadruchawk colliery and the Saltoie colliery were of common ownership , though 
technically they are not of common ownership but are of common management 
If a person who had been working in a sister colliery as electrician since 1942 
was proposed to be appointed as Head Electrician in the present colliery and 


248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


thereby the complainant who was in service of the colliery since 1946 lost a chance 
of promotion , it could not necessarily be said to be a case of victimisation or 
favouritism , especially when we remember that the Standard Colliery in which 
Mr. Sen was serving had to be closed down (and the closure thereof has been 
held by this Tribunal to be justified in the award passed in Reference No . 2 of 
1952 ) . " I therefore hold that the complainant s grievance that A . K . Sen s transfer 
to this colliery was a case of victimisation cannot be accepted . It is true that by 
A , K , Sen s transter , the complainant may have lost a chance of promotion to 
which he may have been looking up to ; but that by itself would not be sufficient 
to hold that the management s action was improper. 

16 . I may mention at this stage that strictly speaking the question whether the 
complainant was entitled to promotion or not is not directly in issue in the present 
case . The question at issue is whether his dismissal was proper ; but for con 
sidering and deciding the bonafides of the management in dismissing the com 
plainant, the above facts have to be considered and that is why I have discussed 
them . As I said above, the action of the management in appointing or trans 
ferring A . K . Sen to this colliery does not appear to me to be malafide. It 
however appears that the workmen in general and the complainant in particular 
did not like this. It appears that when A . K . Sen was transferred to this colliery , 
the workmen approached the workmen s union by their letter Exhibit 16 , dated 
13th August 1952. Thereupon the President of the Union wrote a letter to the 
Manager. Before this , the complainant had already written a letter to the Manager 
of the colliery on 12th August 1952 requesting that he should be promoted to the 
post of Ashu Mistry when he retired and sent this letter through the Labour 
Union . The complainant s allegation is that on receipt of this letter , the manager 
called him and threatened him for having approached the Union . He thereupon 
went to the Union and complained to them about the manager s threats . There 
upon the Union President wrote a letter Exhibit 15 to the Manager informing him . 
about the complaint made by the complainant. The manager s reply to this is 
Exhibit 17 wherein he stated that the allegations were false , and called upon the 
President to withdraw the allegations. It is alleged by the complainant that after 
this he was called by the manager in his office in the presence of the union officials 
and at that time also the manager threatened and assaulted him . This is referrect 
to by the Union President in his letter , dated 15th August 1952 / 18th August 
1952 produced as Annexure E to the complaint. It further appears that even 
after this there was further correspondence and we find that on 17th September 
1952 the Union President wrote letter Exhibit 18 stating that a new man Shri 
A , K . Sen wa s working at the colliery as Head Electrician and that he was designat 
ed as Head Electrician as soon as Ashu went on leave and the Union President 
was of the opinion that the complainant should also be designated as Head 
Electrician . The manager s reply to this is Exhibit 19 , dated 18th September 1952 
stating that he could not break the company s rules and that when a person was 
transferred from one colliery to another his designation was not changed , meaning 
thereby that A . K Sen was designated as Head Electrician because that was his 
designation in the Standard Colliery . 

17 . It would thus appear that though the management were right in transferring 
A . K . Sen to this colliery and in their intention to promote him to the post of 
Head Electrician in the place of Ashu Mistry when the latter retired , the workmen 
in general and the complainant in particular were not satisfied about it and were 
agitating in the matter . In my opinion , it was because of this background that 
the incident of 10th December 1952 has been grossly exaggerated and has been 
made a handle by the management for taking action against the complainant, 

18 . I have already mentioned above the allegations of the two parties as to 
what happened on that day , I am not prepared to believe that the incident took 
place as alleged by the engineer Mr. Choudhuri. According to Mr. Choudhuri, 
he called Ashu Mistry, the complainant, and others to his office and told them that 
unauthorised connections had to be cut off and thereupon the complainant stated 
that he would not do so . It is further alleged that on this Mr. Choudhuri said that 
if the complainant did not do it, he would have to do it himself and thereupon 
the complainant became angry and abused and threatened him (Mr. Choudhuri) . I 
do not think it natural that the complainant would get angry merely on the 
engineer telling him that if the complainant did not cut off the connections, the 
engineer would have himself to do so . The complainant s allegations that he 
requested that someone should accompany him when he went to cut the con 
nections and thereupon the engineer told him that the complainant had become 

great man and wanted a peon to accompany him appear to me to be more 
probable . Probably when the engineer said this , the complainant must not have 
liked what the engineer had told him , especially when we remember the back 
ground about the appointment of A . K . Sen to this colliery by which the com 
plainant believed that his chance of promotion was being interfered with , This 


PART II — Sec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


249 


may have led to some exchange of words between the engineer and the com 
plainant. But I do not believe the allegations that the complainant used abuses 
or showed insubordination . 


19 It has been urged on behalf of the management that in a case of this type, the 
Tribunal is riot to sit in appeal against tlic decision or the management and all that 
it is to see is that there was somc evidence from which the management could 
come to the conclusion that the charge sheet against the complainant was proved . 
In the present case , there was a statement signed by several witnesses supporting 
the allegation of engincer Mr. Choudhui. It is true that the Tribunal is not to sit 
in appeal against the decision of the management; but at the same time, the 
Tribunal has to be satisfied about the bonalides of the action of the management. 
I may mention that I am not satisfied about thc bonafides of the management. 
It is true that the munagement allege that they had before it a written statement 
signed by. Several persons supporting the allegations of the engineer and this 
statement has been produced by them at serial No . 5 with their list Exhibit 10 . 
In this connection , the evidence ot the ongineer Exhibit 28 shows that after the 
incident took place , he wrote his statement and gave it to the manager . This 
statement has not been produced before the Tribunal . It is then said that the 
manager called the witnesses and recorded their statements . One Arun Das wrote 
out one common statement in Bengali and this statement was signed by him and 
by other witnesses . It was after this that a charge sheet was served on the com 
plainant. Admittedly no statements were recorded after the charge sheet was 
served on the complainant or after he replied to it. Now so lars the alleged 
statement of the different witnesses is concerned , it may be noted that it does 
not bear any date nor does it hear the signature of the officer in whose presence 
it was taken . The signatures of the different witnesses appear to be in different 
ink showing that the signatures must have been taken at different times . In 
other words, there is nothing to show that this statement was recorded on 10th 
December 1952 nor is there anything to show that it was recorded by the manager 
nor is there anything to show that all the persons who have signed the statement 
were present on 10th December 1952 and signed them at that very time. Neither 
the manager nor any of the persons who have signed the above statements has 
been examined as a witness in the present case. There is nothing to show that 
the witnesses who signed it , properly understood what was written therein . It may 
be noted that all the persons who have signed the statement were subordinates 
of Mr. Choudhuri and unless their testimony was tested by cross - cxamination , 
it would not be proper to rely on a statement on which their signatures may have 
been obtained They may even have signed it at the instance of Mr. Choudhuri. 
Usually cases of this type used to be put up before the Pit Committee ; but the 
present case was not so put up . All these facts taken together go to show that 
the management and the engineer cxaggerated a sinall incident with a view to 
take advantage thereof to get rid of the complainant who was agitating against 
the management s action in transferring A . K . Sen to this colliery . In other words, 
their action was not bonafide . 


20 . They did not hold a proper enquiry . According to the management s case, 
a written statement was already obtained from some persons before a charge 
shcel was served on the complainant. This means that the management had 
already been prejudiced against the complainant and wanted to dismiss him . 
Otherwise the normal course would have been that when the engineer made a 
romplaint in the matter , a charge sheet should have been served on the com 
plainant and if he denied the allegations, then the statements of all persons who 
were present should have been recorded to satisfy the management whether the 
allegations inade by the engineer were collect. In the pregent case , however , the 
management had already obtained a written statement of some witnesses before 
serving a charge sheet on the complainant. Mr. Choudhurị went to the length of 
saying that when the above statements were obtained from the witnesses , the 
complainant was present. He had at first denied that fact. If the complainant 
was present at the time, he would have also been apprised about the incident 
and his statement also would have been recorded . No such thing was done. It 
shows that the complainant must not have been present at the time. This also 
shows the want of bonafides on the part of Mr. Choudhuri, as much as he is not 
stating the whole truth . 


21 On the whole . the order of the management dismissing the complainant was 
not bonafide and the complainant must be reinstated in the post which he was 
holding ; but he is not entitled , as I said above , te the post of Head Electrician . 
In the result , I hold that the order of dismissal of the complainant is not proper 
and it is therefore set aside. The complainant should be reinstated in the post 
which he was holding in 1952 and should be paid the wages and would be entitled 
to all the bencfits as if he was in service all along . Arrears of wages etc . should 


250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


be paid within one month from the award becoming enforceable I pass my award 
accordingly . 
The 9th January , 1954 . 

( Sd ) L . P . DATE , Chairman . 
Central Goverment s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

(No LR .2( 365 ).] 
SRO 363. - - In p rsuance of Secton 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XLIV o . 1947 ) , the Central Guternment reby publishes the fo lowing award of 
the Industriai Tribunal, Mudra a thw (“ispute between the smpinyers in relation 
to the Inl17r. Overseas Bank Lid Vadius and their worknul 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBU NAL MADRAS 

PRESUNT 
Si. S Narasimhulu 

Tit! !!, Lee 8th Jan ? (!? y , 1354 
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE NO 29 OF 1933 ( CENTRAL : 
Between 
Thew ris, represented by the Indian Overseas Bank Employees Union 53 

Veliaia Street, Madras 1 

AND 
Toe Management we the Indian Overseas Bank Ltd , Vardina 
This dispute coming on before me for final en unny On Uth December, 1953, 
31st December , 1953 , and 2nd January , 1954, in the presence of Sri G . Nagiah , 
Secretary of the Indian Overseas Bank Employees Union , for the workers , and 
Sri K . S Vaidu , Advocate , loi thi . - 1 perusing the reference made 
by the Government of India , the . . . . r the parties and the evidence 
adduced bt them and on hearing 

. . . adyanced by them and having 
stood over 101 consideration till th : . ! 1 . .. following 

AWARD 
A dispute having alls611 between the workmen and thice management of the 
Indian Overseas Bank Ltd Ideild as regards the d scharge of i of the Banks 
workmen and the grant of 1 ? ciement to the workmen for the year 1950 the 
Government of India referred it by means of LR No 100 (94 ) dated 2. ru October 
1953, for 12 adjudication under Section 7 and clause ( C ) of Sub -section ( 1 ) of 
Section 107 of the Industrial Dispuies ( Central ) Act XIV of 19 + 7 On receipt of 
notice of this reference from me. the Indian Overseas Bank Employees Union 
fired its cla ns- statement an , in reply to it the management of the Bank filed its 
(unter - staterrent. In the light ot these pleadings and the leterence of the Indian 
Guvernieut the following issues were settled iur teermination in the lase at the 
prenninals enquiry held for the purpose on 15th December 195 .3 
2 Issues . 
( 1 ) Whether the termination of the services of ( 1 ) Sarvashii N . A . R K , 

trunachalam Chettiar , ( 2 ) S Ayyaswamy ( 3 ) S Loganathun , ( ) 
K Kasiviswanathan (5 )T eenakshisundaram ( 6 ) P Veeraswamy 

and ( 7 ) M R Meeriah from the Bank was justified 
( 2 ) If not , to what reliet is each of the workers who were discharged with 

out justification , entitled ? 
( 3 ) Whether the workers of the Bank are not entitled to increment for the 

year 1950 by virtue of the interim award made by Sri Sen on 2nd 

December , 1919 
3 When the matter came up for enquiry on 23rd December 1953 , the Union 
applied for an adjournment till 26th December 1953, with the consent of the 
Management but on 26th December 1972 , 113 I ustinent in turn got it adjournet 
to 30th December 1953 , with the agreement of tne Union Finally , on 30th Deceni 
ber 1953 . the Management marked 36 documents , Ex , M . 1 to M 26 , and examined 
2 witnesses , M WS 1 and 2 . in proof of its case against which the Unio , contenten 
itsell with marking some documents , Exs . W . 1 to W . 18 without adducing any 
oral evidence . The case was , therefore, closed and arguments were heard on either 
side the same day . In the course of their arguments the parties preferred to 
have the question of increment covered by issue No 3 settled by themselves 
and took a day s time to file a memorandum of seitlement On 31st December 
1953 however none appeared on behalf of the Union or the workers and the case 
was therefore adjourned to 2nd January 1957 the next working day , when the 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


251 


parties appeared only to state that their attempt at settlement on the question 
of increment had failed and to argue on the question after marking Ex . W . 19 on 
behalf of the workers and Ex . M . 27, for the Management. 

4 Inne No 1 - Of the 7 worlzors to whom thi . irsue relates , the case of the 
first 3. Sri Arunachalam Chettiar, Sri Ayyaswami and Sri Loganathan is practi 
cally identical and may , therefore, be dealt with together . These 3 vere clerks 
of the Bank whose employment was terminated for similar reasons a “ about the 
same time by means of the orders Exs. W . 5 , W . G and N . 6 ( € ) , after they had put 
in service of 3 to 4 years . 

5 The orders served on Sri Arunachalam and Sri Ayyaswami are both dated 
17th September 1953, and rouched in the same language They state that io meet 
the situation created by the award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Dis 
putes ) , the Management regrets to have to terminate the services of the Sc d ( leiks 
with immediate effect hut offers to pay them a mo rth salary in lieu of notire 
besides their salary , as an ex - gratia pavment, for the remaining days of the cur 
rent month The order by which Sii Loganathan was discharged , Ex M 6 ( e ) 
dated 15th November 1950 , is also in like terms After stating that to meet the 
situation created by the said award , it has bevad lounů ner csaly iu eflct rconomy 
by retrenchment of stati and other ways, the order directs a notice terminating 
the service of the clerk in question to be sent to him with a note that he would 
be paid d month s salary in lieu of notice apait troms salary for the atmaning 
days of the month of November as an ex - gratia paymeni. 

6 The Union contends that there is really no case for retrenchment, that 
even if there was one , the Management should have folloued the principe of 
" last in first out and that the lerks in question were all dism ysed just to create 
a feeling of insecurity in the minds of the employees and a srupt their trade union 
movement On the other hand , the Management urges that it is one of the C 
class banks for whom the ( Sen ) award recognised the ncer for rationalisation and 
that the clerks in question had to be discharged as it was felt necessary to re 
trench the staff to implement the award The Management frankly corrades 
that the piinciple of last come, first go was not observed in the case of these 
eniployees, but seeks to justify its action on the score that the award contains 
no direction to retrench only the latest recruits and that when ictreni hment has 
to be effected , it is but reasonable that only those who are found unfit or ineffi 
cient should be sent away and that all the three clerks we are now concerned with 
were retrenched on the strength of reports received against them from the agents 
of the branches where they were working in compliance with the circular letter 
issued by the Management regarding it. 


7 . Now , the principies governing rases of retrenchment are well-settled Tney 
have been clearly laid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India in the 
leading case of the Viswamitra Press reported at page 181 of 1952 - I - Labour Law 
Journal, thus i 
“ The first question to be considered by a tribunal is whether a case lui 

retrenchment has been established On this question , the onus wouid 
be on the management. If it fails , its case would end there If , 
however, the management is able to establish a case for retrenchi 
ment, either on the ground of rationalisation , cconomy or other suffi 
cient causes, the next question to consider would be the extent of 
retrenchment. Here the matter has to be considered under two sub 
heads, namely ( 1 ) when the action of the management in retrench 
ing the workmen is bona fide and ( 2 ) where in determining the 
extent of retrenchment, it acts partially on extraneous considerations 

or on improper motives . 
" It is the prima facie right of the management to determine its labour force 

and the management would be the best judge to determine the num 
ber of workmen who would become surplus on the ground oí rationa 
lisation , economy or other reasons on which retrenchment can be 
sustained . Where , in effecting the retrenchment, the management acts 
in a bona fide manner, the number retrenched by it are to be ac 
cepted It is not possible or desirable to give an exhaustive list of 
the cases that would be covered by the second class . Increase of 
work -load on the workmen retained would be an instance of extra 
neous consideration . Similarly victimisation or unfair labour practice 
in eflecting retrenchment would be an instance of improper motive . 
When the management is influenced by extraneous considerations or 
improper motives, the tribunal must scrutinise the matter with sreat 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


252 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 ( PART II — Sec. 3 

- - - - - - - - 
circumspection and must confine the number of retrenchment strict 
ly within the limits of actual requirement. In such cases , the manage 

ment must justify by evidence the extent of the retrenchiment." 
These principles have been reiterated by different benches of the same Axpel 
late Tribunal in numerous subsequent decisions, the latest of them being those 
reported at 1953 - 1 - Labour Law Journal at page 45 , 1953 - I - Labour Law Journal at 
page 85 und 1953 - I -Labuu ) Liu Journal at page 366 . 

8 . Now , in justificallon ot the retrenchment. which according to the Manage 
ment in the present case , became necessary and was permitted by the (Sen ) award , 
Exs. M 1 to M . 6 are relied upon , Ex . M . 1 is an extract of the minutes of the 
Banks Committee meeting held on 25th May 1950. It goes to show that a note re 
garding the closing of the Bank s branches at Vellore , Purusawalkam and Tirunelveli 
junction was considered and approved by the Committee , Exs. M . 2 to M . 4 are 
all copies of the communications sent to the sald 3 branch offices directing notices 
to be issued to the clerical and cash department and the subordinate members of 
the offices on 15th October 1950 , that their services would not be required be 
yond that date and as a matter of grace they would be paid their salary and al 
lowance till 30th November 1950 . Then , Ex . M . 5 is a statement showing the 
losses sustained by the 3 branch offices continuously from 1946 to 1950 which ne - . 
cessitated the closure of those offices And lastly , Ex . M . 6 is a confidential ciruu 
lar issued by the Management to all the agents of its branches in India . It is 
dated 10th October 1950, just like Exs M . 2 to M . 4 . After referring to the (Sen ) 
award and the need to meet heavy expenses in respect of increased salaries , 
allowances, etc , as a result of the award , it points out that the additional costs 
could be met only by increasing the income and earning power and by retrench 
ment and curtailment of the superflous staff, and concludes with a request to the 
agents to loyally co -operate with the Management in these matters and furnish 
each a list of the clerks and subordinate members of their staff who may be 
discharged for unsatisfactory work and another list of the rest of their staff 
with a note about those whose work has been outstanding , 


9 . The above documents , particularly Exs. M , 1 to M . 4 . bear out the Manage 
ment s contention that there was sufficient necessity for retrenchment in the 
Bank , But Exs, M , 23 to M , 25 , the documents Aled to indicate the extent of the 
rentrenchment, relate only to the establishments of the 3 branch offices that were 
closed down . They doubtless go to show that altogether 3 officers , 3 cashiers , 8 
clerks, 1 shroff, 6 messengers and 4 watchmen had to be retrenched by the closure 
of the 3 branches. But they also serve to show that all these employees ex 
ceptine 2 watchmen have been provided with employment in some other branches 
of the Bank . What is more , there is nothing to show that the discharge of the 
3 clerks now in dispute was necessitated by the closure of 3 of the Bank s branches 
and much less , that the 3 clerks were all junior to those serving in the 3 branches 
who have been absorbed in the other branches of the Bank Apparently it is to 
overcome this difficulty that the Management seeks to justify the discharge of 
the 3 clerks in dispute on the strength of unsatisfactory reports about their work 
and conduct But the principles to be observed in such a case are different from 
those applicable to retrenchment. Rules of natural justice requires that persons 
accused of defective work or conduct should be told of 11 and given an oppor 
tunity of either disproving it or of avoiding the punishment proposed for it . 


10 . The only evidence adduced about the 3 clerks in question being unfit for 
continuance in employment is Exs, M 6 ( a ) to M . 6 ( d ) . Ex M . 6 ( a ) is a conf 
dential letter of the agent of the Bank s branch at Madras dated 26th October 1950, 
sent in reply to the confidential circular . Ex M 6 . It shows that the agent was 
not satisfied with the clerks, Sri Ayyaswami and Sri Arunachalam . The remarks 
made by him against them are these : - " Mr. Ayyaswami joined servire on 19th 
November 1947 He is not quick and up to date in his work . He is lazy and is 
not earnest about the work allotted to him . He often commits mistakes in his 
work and shows no disposition to admit them . In spite of warnings he does not 
show any improvement, " and " Mr. N . A . R . K Arunachalam joined service on 
9th February 1948 He is easy -going, takes no interest in his work and is very 
careless. He is not obedient and does not freed to his superiors . He is moreover 
slow and dull and will not prove useful to us." Ex . M . 6 ( b ) is a memorandum 
issued to Sri Arunachalam on 24th July 1950 , informing him that his probationary 
period had been extended by 3 months on account of the agent s unfavourable re 
port. And Ex , M . 6 (r ) is a similar memorandum issued to Sri Ayyaswami on 
22nd July 1950, telling him that in view of the agent s unfavourable report on his 
neatness of execution , his probation period had been extended by 3 months 
with a warning to show improvement in his writing. And Ex . M , 6 ( d ) is a letter 


PART II — ŞEC . 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


253 


of the agent of the Cannanoro branch of the Bank dated 16th October 1950 , con 
talning his adverse remarks against the clerk , Sri Loganathan , to the effect that 
he had been transferred to that office very recently on 26th September 1950 , that 
in the clerk s short period at that ofhit he found the clerk much below his ex 
pectation , considering the service the clerk had put in the Bank , that he 
found the clerk quite inexperienced and cven not much enthusiastic in picking 
up work , that he was also a little bit slow in his execution of work , that the worthz 
ness of his retention in service depended upon his all round improvements and 
that at that stuge he did not appear to be a much promising employee . . 

11. Apparently Ex , M . 6 ( c ) relate to a period anterior to the date of Exs, 
M , 6 ( b ) and M . 6 and could only be relied upon as showing that the 2 clerks to 
whom they refer were still on probation at the time of their discharge , while the 
third clerk , Sri Loganathan , had been confirmed by them . The documents which 
are of importance for our purpose are Exs. M , 5 , W . 6 and M . 6 ( e ) by which the 
3 clerks were discharged from service They do not inake any reference to the 
unsatisfactory work or conduct of the 3 clerks mentioned in Exs. M . 6 ( a ) and 
M , 6 ( d ) but merely ytate that the clerks had to be discharged to meet the situa 
lion created by the award . In view of this the Union would be justified in con 
tending that when the Management decided upon discharging the 3 clerks it 
preferred to base it on the situation created by the award ( of effecting economies 
by way of retrenchment of staff and enhancement of carning power ) and not on 
the strength of the agent s adverse reports against the clerks. In such a case 
the management could only treat the 3 clerks us having been retrenched and 
should have re - entertained them as soon as vacancies arose, in the yamc maner 
as it had done in the case of the clerical staff affected by the closure of the above 
said branches at Tirunelveli, Purasawalkun ) and Vellore . Ex . W . 1 discloses that 
besides the absorption of the clerks of the aforesaid 3 branches , the Management 
has appointed quite a large number of other persons as clerks in 1953 without 
laking back the 3 retrenched clerks in question It looks as if the Management 
is resorting to the confidential reports sent against these clerks merely to avoid 
any inference of unfair labour practice from its failure to re -entertain the 3 re 
trenched clerks before employing their juniors 


12 . Assuming for a moment that those 3 clerks were discharged for unsatis . 
factory work or conduct on the basis of their agents reports . natural justice re 
quires that the Management should have told the clerks about the adverse remarks 
in the reports and called upon them to yhow ( ause why disciplinary action of a 
specified kind should not be taken against them on the strength of those reports . 
Something in the nature of charge - sheets should have been served on the clerks 
concerned . And if they did not plead guilty to any of those charges, they should 
have been permitted to disprove the truth oť the Agents adverse remarks by their 
Cross - examining the agents , if so desired , and by means of evidence on their own 
behall . They should at least have been allowed to adduce mitigating circum 
stances to avoid any drastie punishment like a summary discharge or dismissal, 
Failure to do so utterly vitiates the action taken by the Management and makes 
it impossible to accept it. I am therefore constrained to hold that the termina 
tion of the services of the aforesaid 3 ( lerks without any right of reemployment was 
not at all justified . 


1.3 . The next employee covered by the first issue, Sri Kasiviywanathan , appears 
to have been appointed by the Bank on 20th December 1947, at Madras and later 
on transferred to Tuticorin where he was discharged from the service on 30th 
July 1951 by means of the order Ex . W . 9 . This order refers to 4 leave applica 
lions of the clerk dated 27th June 1951, 4th July 1951, 9th July 1951 and 13th July 
1951, and enclosure of a certificate from the Government Medical Officer , and then 
states that the Central Office of the Bank had rejected the applications and felt 
reluctantly compelled to terminate his services immediately in view of the highly 
contagious disease he was suffering from . But the medical certificate . Ex . M 7 . 
which the Management has filled in proof of the diseasc merely shows that the 
clerk was guttering from Hansen s disease (skin clipping for lepra Bacillae 
positive ) and that the medical officer who gaye the certificate recommended 3 
months leave for the treatment of the disease . It contains nothing to warrant the 
Management s contention that the disease was acute or its statement in Ex . W . 9 
that the disease was highly contagious Nor has the Management been able to 
show me urly authority for treating the disease described in Ex , M . 7 as con 
tagious. This apart , Ex , M , 10 , another certificate of the same medical officer 
who gave Ex . M . 7 , serves to show that after a subsequent examination of the 
clerk concerned on 7th November 1951, and reading of the report of the Civil 
Assistant Surgeon in charge of Leprosy Department of the hospital to the effect 
that in his opinion the clerk s case was one of no -offective neutral type, the medical 


204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II . SEC. 3 


officer concurred with that opinion and declared the clerk íit to do his duties, 
though by way of caution he advised that the clerk should continue regular treat 
ment The Union has gone further and filed Ex. W . 10 . another certificate of the 
same medical officer dated 13th February 1952 , to show that the clerk in question 
had been treated in the hospital for neutral type of leprosy for the past 4 months 
witi sulphones and injections, that repeated smears and ski slips were found 
to be negative and that in the opinion of the medical officer the disease had been 
arrested and the individual concerned was then free from the disease and fit to 
noin duty without detriment to his colleagues. When this certifirate was produced 
by the clerk with a request for reinstatement, he merely got ine reply Ex W 11 
dated 14th March 1952 , from the Management regretting iis inability to oflei nim 
an appointment in the Bank as it was not its practice to take back members that 
har on Jeft the BankIt is rather diſfrult 12 appreciata thr treatment 17uted 
out to this clerk According to the Management s own pleading in the counter 
ntato .ncili , it was really an unfortunate case And yet ile Management wants 
to say that it had no other alternative but to discharge thin clerk and that too 
on the strength of nothing beyond what has been stated above . I think I must 
hold the discharge of even this clerk as unsustainakle 

14 . The fifth cerk whose discharge is in dispute , Sr T . Meenakshisundarani, 
admittedly joined the Bank s service as a clerk in 1946 , and volunteered to serve 
in its branch office at Singapore for a period of 3 years from 28th July , 1947 on 
apparently better emoluments The Management pleads that despite the said con 1 
tract this Clerk applied by means of Ex M 11 for 3 months leave in June , 1451 
on the grouure of his father s illness a : disclosed by the telegram . E M . 12 , thal 
though the clerk was not entitled to any home leave before completion of the 3 
years of service over -seas, he was granted leave as a special case on the under 
standing that he should report himself to duty at the Bank s Singapore Branch on 
the expiry of his leave , that instead of doing so , the clerk applied while he was on 
leave in India , by way of Ex M , 14 dated 7th September 1951 . for a transfer to 
any Tamilnau branch on the ground of his own illness and on the plea that the 
Singapore Timate did not suit him , that the request was refused by the Manage 
Juent as it had reasons to believe that the clerk was merely melingering and the 
excuse of unsuitability of Singapore climate was an after -thought, that the clerk 
was served with a note , Ex M 26 dated 4th October 1951, informing him about 
the Managenient s inability to comply with his request and giving him an oppor 
tunity to resign in view of the medical certificate that he would not be fit to go 
over -seas failing which he would have to be treated as having left the Bank s 
services. The Union has nothing to say against this case except to plead that 
decording to Exs W . 12 and W .13 ( = M . 15 ) , certificates of medical practitioners at 
Devakottai where the clerk was spending his leave , he was suliering from sprue 
and was undergoing treatment for it and that his return to Malaya would bring 
about a relapse of the disease I am unable to see how these certificates can help 
the clerk to avoid the only alternative whicn he left to the Management, namely . 
of either discharging him for his unwillingness or inability to go back and serve 
at Singapore till the 3 years contract period was over or to resign his post and quit 
the Bank s service of his own accord . I consider that the Management s action 
in treating him as having left its service by his failure to join duty at the end of 
The leave period sanctioned to him was just and must be upheld . The clerk can 
have no reason to complain of harsh treatment against the Management in his 
case particularly in view of his having received return passage money to which 
he would not be entitled unless he had served at least 3 years over - seas as indi 
cated in Ex . M . 13. 


15 . This brings us to the case of Sii P Veeraswamy who joined the Bank as an 
attender in about 1941 and was discharged on 10th November 1951 , for failure to 
join duty on the expiry of the leave granted to him . The Management s case in 
regard to him is that his leave record , Ex W 21, was throughout bad . On 17th 
January 1930 , he took 3 months leave to attend to his sick father , 8 days of which 
period being on loss of pay . Again on 25th August 1950 , he got 2 months on 
medical grounds, half of which being on loss of pay . Then again on 22nd June 
1951, he obtained 15 days leave to attend to ’ his sick father and then applied for 
15 days extension on loss of pay Lastly on 24th September 1951, he applied for 
6 months leave but was granted only a month s leave . As he failed to join duty 
on the expiry of that leave, he had to be discharged by the order. Ex . M . 16 , dated 
10th November 1951. All that the Union has chosen to urge in favour of this at 
tender is that according to Ex . W . 3 dated 24th April 1951, a certificate of a medi 
cal practitioner at Madras , he was suffering from hydrocele and wanted to be opera 
ted for it at his native place and for that purpose was recommended a long leave 
for 6 months, that the Management was unfair to him in granting only one 
month s leave and discharging him from service for his failure to join duty after 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

255 
- - - - 

- - 

- = 
that period and refusing by Ex W . 4 to reinstate him in spite of his letter , Ex . 
M 19 , stating that when he got the Bank s intimation to join duty he was on sick 
bed . Alter due consideration , I find myself unable to question the Management s 
action in ihis case also . If the attender was really bed -ridden at the time of his 
recciving the Bank s letter to join duty on 24th October 1951, he could have in - - 
formed the Bank about it immediately instead of waiting till 27th February 1952 
and then asking for reinstatement, especially when the Bank had refused to grant 
himn anything more than one month s leave in spite of his having asked for 6 
months leave on the strength of a medical man s report . 

16 . Coming to the last employce, Sri M . R . Meeraiah , he joined the Bank s 
service as a peon in 1944 and was treated as having left the service on 21st 
September 1951, for failure to report himself to duty on the expiry of the leave 
granted to him as per Ex . W . 2 The Management seeks to justify this discharge 
on the ground that his leave record , Ex , M . 22, was very bad , that he was granted 

days leave from 30th August 1951, on loss of pay with a warning that he should 
not apply for any extension , that in spite of this he applied for extension upto 
2200 September 1951, on the score of his wife s illness and that the leave had to 
be refused and he was asked to report himse l to duty immediately which he failed 
to do and let no alternative to the Management but to terminate his services. The 
Management goes further and Ales Exs. M . 18 , M 19 and M . 20 to show that his 
failure to join duty on 21st September 1951, was the second of its kind and his 
request for rewstalement could not therefore be entertained and that in accept 
ance of this pctition he had finally applied on 30th January 1951, for a memoran 
dum of service lor the period he had served the institution apparently to join soine 
other institution and such a memorandum was granted to him on 17th December 
1951 As against this , the Union has nothing more than to urge that the peon 
had to apply for an extension from Hyderabad owing to his wife s illness there . I 
fear this excuse cannot be accepted as a sufficient reason for his failure to join 
duty in spite of the warning which he had, that the leave already granted should 
not be extended beyond 6th September 1951. The fact that he has taken a memo 
randum of service from the Bank goes to show that he was himself satisfed with 
the justincation for his discharge and preferred to seek employment elsewhere 
on the strength of the memorandum . I am therefore inclined to uphold his dis 
charge also . I accordingly find on the first issue that the termination of the ser 
vires of Sris Arunachalam Chettiar , Ayyaswamy, Loganathan and Kasiviswanathan 
was not justified and is therefore liable to be set aside while the discharge of Sris 
Meenakshisundaram , Veeraswamy and Meeraiah was justilled and should there 
fore be allowed to stand undisturbed . 

17. Issu No. 2 . - If the finding given above is correct, it follows that Sri 
Meenakshisundaram , Veeraswamy and Meeraiah are not entitled to be rainstated 
or compensated in any way for their discharge while the other 4 employees men 
tioned abovc have a right to relief against their discharge which under the circum 
stances of the case I must hold to be their reinstatement in service . The only 
question which requires serious consideration in the case of these 4 cmp oyees is 
whether they should have their salary and allowances from the time of their dis 
charge upto the date of their reinstatement, The Management contends that Sri 
Ayyaswamy is employed as an Executive Officer of a temple under the Hindu 
Ralicious anu Charitable Endowments Board and this is not disputed by the Union . 
As repards the other 3 employees whose discharge has been set aside, there is no 
proof of their being unemployed after their discharge. In view of this and the 
circumstances in which they have been discharged , I consider that they are not 
entitled to any remuneration from the date of their discharge till their reinstate 
ment in service . The Union has doubtless submitted two affidavits to show that 
Sri Arunachalam has remained unemployed upto now and that Sri Loganathan is 
also unemo u ved except for 3 short period of 25th January 1951. to 31st March 
1951 30th July 1951, to 31st May 1952 , and 1st February 1953 to 11th April 1953 . 
But they cannot be relied upon as they have been sent to me by post after the en 
qury and the arguments in the case were closed and that too , without any direc 
tion from me and after the Union had stated at the enquiry that it had no further 
evidence to adduce in the case than the documents marked for it . Acceptance of 
aidavits in such circumstance would be improper , more so as It deprives the op 
posite party of its right to cross - examine the deponants regarding the veracity and 
reliability of their averments in the athda vits. My finding on the second issue 
therefore is that Sris Arunachalam Chettiar, Ayyaswamy, Loganathan and 
Ko siviswanathan are only entitled to be taken back into service on the same terms 
as they were enjoying at the time of their discharge , within 30 days of the publica 
Hon of this award , treating the intervening period as leave on loss of pay so as not 
to attiect continuity of their service and such other rights as they possessed at the 
time of their discharge. 


256 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 [ PART II - SEC , 3 
MSI - - FER 

-- - - 

- - -- - - - - - 

- - - - - - S 
18 . Issue No. 3 . - What remains is only the worker s claim for increment due on 
1st April 1950 , up to 1st February 1951, when the final award of the (Sen ) Tribunal 
was implemented by the Bank . The Management candld ) y concedes that the in 
crement in question has not been paid but seeks to justify it on the ground that 
the Tribunal gave an interim award on 2nd December 1949 , providing for tempor 
ary relief regarding salary and allowance from 1st June 1949, by virtue of which 
most of the clerks of the Bank got much more than their relative annual incre 
ments and even if those increments had been granted on 1st April 1950 they 
would have all merged in the interim relief awarded by the Tribunal. I see some 
torce in this contention . But it could be applied only to those who actually got the 
benefit of the interim Award . Admittedly this benefit was given by the Bank to 
only the employees of its branches in Part A States and that too, to only employ 
. ees whose salary and dearness allowance together fell short of the minimum al 
Jowed under the interim award , viz ., Rs. 80 in the case of clerks and Rs, 38 in 
the case of subordinate staff in the city of Madras, and Rs. 76 in the case of 
clerks and Rs. 35 / - in the case of subordinate staff outside the city of Madras, as 
seen from Ex . N . 27 . In view of this , such of the clerks and subordinate staff as 
were getting on 1st April 1950 , more than these minimum amounts and could not 
for that reason reap any beneſt from the interim award as well as those for whom 
that award was not applied should have the increments that would have accrued 
due to them on 1st April 1950 , till Ist February 1951, when the new revised scale 
of salaries and increments granted under the Anal award was adopted by the 
Bank in question . The learned advocate for the Manogement pleads that though 
the Tribunai gave the Banks time till 13th February 1951, to implement its final 
. award , the Bank in question gave effect to the award on 1st February 1951, 12 days 
earlier than the date fixed , and that the additional income which the employees 
of the Bank thus derived should be allowed to be deducted from the quantum of 
increments now granted to them for the period 1st April 1950 , to 1st February 
1951. 1 liave carefully considered this contention but feel that in the absence of 
any evidence to show that the carlier implementation of the final award by the 
„ Bank in question was done with the object , if not on the condition , that the extra 
benefit thereby ronferred should go in reduction of the increments which some oſ 
the employees are now found entitled to claim . I would therefore find on the 
3rd issue that all the employees of the Bank in question in both part A and part 
B states of the Indian Union shull have the increments that would have accrued 
due to them on 1st April 1950 , till 1st February 1951, except those in part A states 
whose salary and dearness allowance was less than the minimum amounts Axed 
by the said interim award and who for that reason got that minimum from the 
Bank in qucstion from 1st June 1949 . 

19 . In the result there will be an award according to the findings given above 
and it will be submitted to the Union Government with a note that it shall berome 
- enforceable on the expiry of 30 days from the date of its publication in the Official 
Gazette and that the parties shall bear their own costs . 


MADRAS ; 
Dated , the 8th January 1954. 


[ S . NARASIMHULU ) , 
Indusrial, Tribunal Madras. 


LIST OF EXHIBITS MARKED 


For the workers 

W . I . 


. 


W . 


2 


. 


27 - 9 - 51 
24 - 9 - 50 


10 - 3 -52 


Minutes of conciliation proceedings held under Section 

12 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by the Regional 
Labour Commissioner (Central) , Madres , on 31- 1 - 53 . 
Letter from the Bank to M . R . Meergish , 
Note of Dr. U . Sriniv29a Ruo , M . B .B . S .. about 

Sri P . Veeruswami, 
Letier of the Indian Overseas Bank Comınittee to 

Sri P . Veeraswami, 
Letter of the Bank to Mr. N . A . R . K . Arunachulum . 
Letter of the Bank to Mr. S . Ayyaswamy. 
Letter of the Bank to S . Loganathan , 
Letter from Veeraswami to the Bank . 
Letter from the Agent of the Tuticorin Branch of the 

Bank to K , Kasiviswanathan , 
Cértificate of Dr. V . Kuruvillu . M . B . B . S . regarding 

Kasiviswanathan , 


17 - 11 -53 
17 - 11- 53 
18 - 11- 53 


w 


. 


. 


30 - 7 - 83 


W . 10 


. 


. 


13 - 2 - 52 


PART 11 - Suc. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

257 
= = = = = = 

= - - = - = -- = - = - = - = - = 
W . 11 . . 14- 2 - 501 Letter from the Bank to Kasiviswanathan . 
• 23- 9 - 511 

Certificare of Dr. P . S . Vaidyanathan , Civil Assistant 

Surgeon . regarding T . Meenakshışundarum . 
W . 13 · 7-9 -17 Certificate of Captain G , D . Ebenezer , L. A . M . C . ( Retd .), 

Devakottai, regarding T . Meenakshisundaram 
W . 14 . 

List of persons appointed yubsequent to May 1952 in 

the Bunk , 
Balance -rheet as on 31 - 12 - 1949 . 

Balance - sheet of the Bank as on 31- [ 2 - 1950 . 
W . 17 

Balance -sheet of the Bank as on 31 - 12 - 1951, 

Balance - sheet of rhe Bank as on 31- 12 - 1952. 
W . 19 

• 4 - 2 - 1951 Circular of the Bank to all hranch offices , 


W . 


X 


for the Management 

M . . . 
M . 2 . 
M . 3 . 
M . 4 . . 


10 - 10 - 30 
10 - 10 - 50 


10 - 10 -50 


10 - 10 - 50 


. 


M . 6 ( a ) 
M . 60 ) 

610 ) 
M , 610 ) 


• 
· 
: 


21 - 10 - 50 
24 - 7 - 50 
22 - 7 - 50 
16 -10 - 50 


. 


13- 7 -51 
25 - 4 - 52 
22 - 4 -52 


Certified extraci (rom the Muytes of the Committet 

Mceting held on 25 - 9 - 50 . 
Copy ofCentral Office letter to the Gudiyatham Branch . 
Copy of Central Office leller lo the Tirunelveli Juunc 

tron branch 
Copy of Central Office letter to Madras Branch ( Purasa 

walkam ). 
Statement of logs uçurred by Purasawalkam , Tirunelveli 

and Vellore branch pay offices, 
Copy of circular lerler of Mr. L . C . Willuny to all 

Indian Branch Agents. 
Madras Branch Agent s letter to Central Office . 
Copy of Central Office letter to Madras Branch . 
Copy of Central Office letter to Madras Branch . 
Copy of Cannanore Branch Agent s letter to Central 

Office , 
Medical Certificare (Kasiviswanathan ). 
Copy of Central Office letter to Tuticorin Brunch . 
K . Kasiviswanathun s letter to the Bank . 
Copy of medical certificate . 
Telegram 
Copy of Central Office leiter tu Singapore . 
T . Meenakshiyundarani s letter . 
Medical Certificate . 
Copy of Madras Bruich letter 10 Vecraswami. 
P . Veesaywami s letter to the back . 
Meeriah s letter to the Agent, Mudras Branch . 
Meeriah s letter to the Bank. 
Copy of memo of servicu . 
Leave record of Veeraswami. 
Leave record of M . R . Mceriah , 
List of persons in Tirunelveli Junction Brunch showing 

chcir absorption in service , 
List of persons in Purayawalkam Branch showing their 

absorption in service . 
List of persons in Vellore Branch showing their absorp 

tion in service , 
Letter from the Bunk to Meenakshisindaram , 


ΝΑ ΤΟ 
M . 12 
M . 13 
M 14 
M . IS 
M 16 
M . 17 
M 18 
M 19 
M . 20 
M . 21 
M22 
M . 23 


11 - 6 - 51 
T9 - 6 -51 
7 - 9 - 51 
7 - 9 - 50 
10 - 11 - 51 
27 - 1 - 52 
29 - 6 - 49 
30 - 11 - 51 
7 - 12 - 51 


• 
• 


· 


· 


4- 10 -31 


LIST OF WITNESSES EXAMINED 


For the reorkers. 


NIL 


for the Management - 
M , W . 

. 
MI W . 2 . 


C . Krishna Monon , 
T , Kumariandy Pillai. 


( S . NARASIMHULU ). 
Industrial Tribunal, Madrus. 

(No. LR - 100 (94 ). 


258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [PART 11 - Sec. 3 
= = = - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - . - - = = - = = - - -- - - = - - = - = - - = 

New Delhi, the 23rd January 1954 
S . R . O . 364 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Krishnapada Sarkar and 81 other workmen of 
Angarpathra Colliery . 

ad 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No 228 OF 1953 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of an application U / S 33A of Indutrial Dispules Act 1947, 
PRESENT; 

Shri L . P . Dave , B . A . LL . B , - - Charinan . 
PARTIES : 
Krishnapada Sarkar and 81 other worlamen ol Angarpathira Collicry of M / S . 

National Coal Co . Ltd ., P . O . Katrasgarh , Dist. Manbhum , Bihar, – 
Complainants . 


Vs. 


M / S . National Coal Co., Ltd , Angarpathia Colliery, P . O . Katrasgarh , 

District Mashhuni, Bihar , — Opposite party . 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri Kantı Mehta , General Secretary, Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 

Opposite Imperial Bank of India , Bhanbad . For the Compluinants . 
Shri D . N . Srimanı, Director , National Coal Co ., Ltd ., and Shri Biswa Ranjan 
Roy , Local Agent of the Company , - For the Opposite party . 

AWARD . 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
2. This complaint is filled by 82 persons , alleging as under : 

They were workmen working in the Angarpathia Colliery belonging to the 
opposite party . Refcrence No . 6 of 1952 to which the complainents and the 
opposite party are also parlies has been pending before this Tribunal sincc 5th 
May , 1952 . In spite of this , the opposite party altered the conditions of service of 
the complainants without obtaining the permission of this Tribunal in writing 
as required by Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The majority of the 
workmen were not allowed to work on 13th June 1953, without any notice being 
given ; all the workmen werc refused work and wages without any notice from 
15th June, 1953 . One K . P . Sarkar , an attendance clerk , and one Badal Das , 
office peon , had not been paid their wages for the weeks ending 6th June 1952 
and 13th June 1953 , respectively ; and one K , C . Ghosh , attendance clerk , had not 
been paid his wages since 1st May , 1953 The bonus of all the workmen had not 
been paid for the first quarter of 1953 . The complainants thercforc pray that 
they should be given full work in their original posts with continuity of service 
and also full wages from 13th June, 1953 . They further pray that the arrears 
of wages of K . P . Sarkar , Badal Das and K , C . Ghosh , should be paid to them , 
Lastly it is prayed that bonus should also be puid to all workmen . 

3 . The opposite party filed its written statement denying the allegations con 
tained in the complaint and further contended as under : 

It is not true that the majority of the workmen were not allowed to work on 
13th June 1953 , and /or that all workmen were refused work from 15th June, 1953. 
K . P . Sarkar was originally appointed to and was working in the Calcutta office 
of the opposite party and had been transferred as a relieving hand to the colliery 
in October . As there was no sufficient work at the colliery and as the Managing 
Agents wanted his services , he was transferred to Calcutta office by a letter , dated 
1st June 1953, under the same conditions of service. He disobeyed the transfer 
order and flatly refused to join Calcutta office and thereupon the opposite party 
terminated his service from 6th June 1953, and offered him one week s pay in 
lieu of notice. He however accepted wages upto 6th June 1953 and refused to 
accept notice pay . From about the time of notice of transfer, the said K . P . 
Sarkar made alliance with other staff and in collusion with one another persuaded 
and even put pressure on other workmen to resort to a strike . With this object 
in view and with some ulterior motive, K . P . Şarkar along with other members 
of the staff began to make incorrect and inconsistent entries in the books and 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


259 


registers . According to the premeditated plan , they attended their duties upto 
16th June 1953 , and stopped all work completely from 17th June 1953 and resorted 
to ar illegal strike. All the staff and workmen had received payment of their 
wages upto week ending 13th June 1953 and have also been paid the bonus for 
the quarter 1953. The allegations in this respect mir . . : . : : ; , are not 
correct. The opposite party has not contravened t . .. . . .. .. S . . . 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act . It is therefore urged : : : :" : i . ice not 
entitled to any of the reliefs asked for by them . 

4 . As I said above , the present complaint has been filed by 82 persons. It 
Was filed on 30th July 1953 and the opposite party filed its written statement on 
14h September 1953. It appears that aftei this , 73 of the complainanis were 
given enployment with effect from 1st October , 1953 . Only 9 persons as men 
tioned in the statement Exhibit 17 are still out of employment. Thus the prayer 
fo : teinstatement would survive only in respect of these nine persons. Regarding 
U other 73 persons, the question that will have to be considered is whether they 
are entitled to any wages Deineen 13th June 1953. to 30th September, 1953. 


5 . The complainanis case is that the opposite party did not allow a majority 
of the workmen to work on 13th June, 1953It is further their case that all 

oikme! Were refused work from 15th June, 1953 . On the other hand, the 
opposite party contends that on 13th June all the workinen excepting the miners 
37tended their duties; that on 15th June the wagon loaders and the office staff and 
thi guards and sweeper s attended their work but the miners and the hazree 
labourers did not do so . It is said that the miners did not work on 13th and 
15th , because they usually do not attend on Saturdays and Mondays . The 
management further state that on 16th June all the office staff and supervisory 
staff and the sweeper attended their work while no one else did so and that on 
and from 17th June 1953 , no workman did any work . In other words, according 
to the workmen , it is a case of illegal lock -out on the part of the management; 

buie the mangement s case is that it was a case of an illegal strike on the part 
of the workmen . Further , so far as the workmen are concerned , they allege that 
the illegal lock -out started on 13th June 1953 and was complete on 15th June 1953 ; 
while according to the management, the workmen stopped attending work from 
15th and 16th and there was a complete strike from 17th . 


6 . Before proceeding to consider the contentions of the relative parties, I 
mar mention a few facts . It appears that the management had not sufficient 
funds to work the colliery and the payment of wages was often in arrears . The 
workmen also felt that they had some other grievances against the management. 
In April 1953 . the workers formed a union , as a branch of the Bihar Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh . On 28th april 1953, they sent a letter of demands to the manage 
ment. A copy of this letter has been produced as Appendix A annexed to the 
complaint. A copy of this letter also appears to have been sent to the Conciliation 
Officer . On 2nd June 1953 the Union wrote a letter to the Conciliation Officer to 
intervene in the matter. On 12th June 1953, the Conciliation Officer wrote a letter 

. 7 + and also to the Union stating that he would hold conciliation 

. : office at 9 A . M . on 17th June 1953 and asked both parties to 
attend at the time. On that day, conciliation proceedings were held . The 
manager of the colliery and one Mr. Roy who is the Agent of the colliery attended 
the conciliation proceedings on behalf of the management. After some discus 
sion , the Conciliation Officer proposed that the parties should settle the matter and 
agree to common terms. He prepared a draft of the proposed agreement and 
gave a copy of it to the Agent and the Manager, as they said that they had no 
authority to enter into or sign an agreement and they would have to consult the 
Managing Agents . The proceedings were adjourned to 24th June to find out 
whether the Managing Agents agreed to the terms and it was also decided that the 
Managing Agent should personally attend the conciliation proceedings on that 
date . It appears that he did not do so but wrote a letter to the Conciliation 
Oficer . 


7 . In the meanwhile , the present trouble had started . As I said above, the 
union alleges that the management did not allow most of the workmen to work 
on 13th June 1953 and did not allow all workmen to work from 15th June 1953 . 
The management admit that both on 13th June 1953 and 15th June 1953, the 
miners did not attend their work . They however allege that it is the usual 
practice for the miners to absent from work on Saturdays and Mondays and that 
is why the miners did not attend on 13th and 15th . On the other hand , the 
workmen urged that the miners were not allowed to work on these two days 
and that is why they did not do any work on these days. In my opinion , the 
allegation of the management cannot be accepted . 


260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [Part II — SEC. 3 
- . 

8 . The miners are piece - lated workers and are paid according to the work 
done by them . It is therefore in their mterest to attend work every day. They 
also get attendance bonus and frec rice for every day they attend to the work . 
Thus they would not be interested in absenting themselves from work on any day . 
It also does not appear natural or probable that they should absent themselves from 
work on every Saturday and Monday ( and also Sunday ) . That would mean 
that they work for only four days a week . It is also unnatural that all (and 
not only some) of them should do this . One can understand that on the day 
Following a pay day, some workmen may l emain absent from work probably 
because they may have taken too much liquor after getting their pay and may not 
be in a fit condition to attend work on the day following . But it is not possible 
to believe that all miners should remain absent from work for three days every 
week . 


9 . Mr. Roy , the local Agent of the colliery , has stated that the miners do not 
attend work on Saturadys and Mondays in all small collieries including their 
own colliery . Not a single instance of any other colliery has been produced or 
proved before me to show that the miners did not attend work on Saturdays and 
Mondays. It may then be noted that even Mr. Roy admits that ever since the 
workmen started working again in the collicry from 1st October 1953 , they are 
working on every Saturday and also on every Monday . The means that his 
previous allegation that the miners did not attend work on Saturdays and Mondays 
in this colliery and in all small collieries does not appear to be correct. I may 
further mention that I have gone through the attendance registers of this collicry 
prior to 13th June 1953 and I have found that the allegations that all the miner s 
did not attend work on Saturdays and Mondays is not true. I have found that 
they have attended work almost on every Saturday and Monday . Thus the nort. 
attendance of the miners from work on 13th June and 15th June does not appear 
to have been voluntary as alleged by the management. 

10 . On the other hand , it appcars to be more probable that the management 
must have not allowed them to work on Saturday and Monday . As I said 
above, the management had not sufficient funds to run the colliery . The letter 
of the Agent written to the Conciliation Officer on 19th June 1953 , mentions that 
the financial position of the company was not sound and that since 1951 it was 
going from bad to worse . It further mentions that the working of the colliery 
in 1952 showed a net loss of approximately Rs. 34 ,000 , and that the manager had 
spent a total sum of Rs. 27, 532 and odd for the first five months of 1953 whereas 
the colliery had raised only 2 ,573 tons of coal during that period and had despatched 
only 965 tons; the value of coal despatched during this period was about Rs. 10 , 852 
out of which a substantial sun was still outstanding . The letter goes on to state 
that the management had brought these facts to the notice of the manager and had 
instructed him to work the colliery economically and make surplus reduction and 
restrict raisings for a limited period to enable the company to clear the stock and 
get suſcient funds. It further appears that the managing agents had asked the 
local agent and the manager that the weekly payments excepting the payments 
for wagon loading and transportation should not exceed Rs. 500 . This appcars 
from the manager s letter to the Managing Agent produced at Serial No. 9 with 
the list Exhibit 9 , and also from the evidence of Mr. Roy , who has said that the 
Managing Agent had issued instructions to this effect in about March or Apri} 
1953 . This would show that the management wanted to restrict their weekly 
expenses and also to restrict their weekly raisings It must be with this aim in 
view that the manager and the local Agent must have refused work to the miners 
on 13th and 15th June; because by doing so , thcy would be able to reduce the 
expenses and also to restrict the output of coal. In my opinion , therefore , the 
miners were not voluntarily absent on 13th and 15th but were not allowed by the 
management to work on those days . 


11 . The workmen then allege that from 15th June, no one was allowed to work : 
and in this connection , they also include the clerks as having not been allowed 
to work on 15th June. On the other hand , the management urge that on 15th . 
Junc, not only the clerks but also the wagon loaders and supervisory and office 
staff , guards and sweeper attended to their work and further that on 16th June 
the office staff and supervisory staff and sweeper also did their work . The 
management urge that it was only from 17th that all workmen stopped work . 


12 . Now so far as the 15th is concerned , it was a Monday ; and according to the 
management , they loaded a wagon on that day . They have produced wagon 
challans, dated 12th June 1953 and 14th June 1953 and D note book in support of 
this . It appears from these papers that a wagon was loaded at this colliery on 
15th June, 1953. This would not necessarily mean that the loaders of this 
colliery did so . As admitted by Mr. Roy in his deposition , some miners of one 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


260 


colliery go to work as wagon loaders in another colliery nearby . It is therefore 
quite possible that the above wagon may have been loaded at this colllery on 
15th June 1953 by other persons, that is persons other thun the wagon loaders of 
this colliery . The best evidence to prove that it was the wagon loaders of this 
very colliery who loaded the wagon on 15th would be the attendance register, 
which however shows no name of any worker as having attended work on 15th . 
June 1953. It was said that the clerks had not noted the attendance of workmen 
who attended the work on that day with a view to creating evidence. This 
appears to be far - fetched . It cannot be believed that the workmen had entered . 
into a conspiracy of going on strike from 17th and yet wanted to show that they 
had been illcgally locked out from 13th or 15th . As I shall presently show , there 
is documentary evidence in the writing of some clerks showing that they attended 
their work on 15th . If the clerks had already conspired to create evidence that 
no one worked at the collicry on 15th , they would not have written these docu 
ments . I do not believe the allegation of the management that the clerks hadi 
deliberately not marked the presence of any wagon loader on 15th to create evi 
dence ; because on that day , they could not have any such idea. It is against them 
interest of the workmen not to have their presence marked on a day on which 
they attended the work and this also would go against the allegation that the 
presence of workmen was not marked on 15th though they attended work on thatı 
day. Further the management should have produced the receipts, which they 
must have taken from the wagon loaders for doing work on the 15th and when 
they have not done so , an adverse inference must be drawn against them for this , 
especially when the attendance registers show that the wagon loaders did not 
attend work on 15th . I believe the workmen s case that the wagon loaders were 
also not allowed to work on that day by the management. 


13 . So far as the clerical staff is concerned , the workmen allege that they were 
refused work from 15th ; while the management alleges that they voluntarily 
absented themselves from 17th . Neither party appears to be speaking the whole : 
truth . That some of the works did do some work at the colliery on 15th appears 
to be a ſact. Firstly we have the daily report of raising of 14th June showing 
that no coal was raised on that day but that a wagon was loaded on 15th . This . 
report is written by a clerk K , C . Majumdar . Then there are attendance sheets . 
of 13th , 15th and 16th June. One sheet of 13th is written by one D . N . Bhatta 
charya and another sheet of the 13th and attendance sheet for the 14th is written . 
by one Mr. K . C Ghosh . One more shect of that day is written by one Mr. S . K . 
Gupta . These sheets however have no importance ; because there is no dispute 
about the clerks having attended office on 13th . We have however onę hazree : 
Sheet of 15th June 1953, which is written by clerk K . P . Sarkar. His explanation 
About it is that this sheet originally bore the date 5th January 1953, but that date 
has subsequently been changed to 15th June 1953 . This explanation cannot be 
belicved . One can easily change 5 to 15 by writing the figure " 1 " before it ; but 
is not so easy to change " 1 " to " 6 " . If such a change is made , the sheet would pro - - 
bably show that the original figure was 1 and was subsequently changed to 6 . A . 
glance at this sheet shows that the figure that was originally written was " G " and " 
no change has been made therein . There is another circumstance showing that 
this sheet must be of 15th June 1953 and not of 5th January , 1953 . It is that one 
B . K . Banerjee was working as an Assistant Store Keeper in the colliery in 
January and the bonus register and the ration issue register of the colliery show 
that he was present for all the days in the week ending 10th January 1953. Ini 
other words, he was present on 5th January , 1953. If the above hazree sheet was 
for that date , one would have expected the name of B . K Banerjee to have been 
included in it . This shows that the above sheet is not of 5th January 1953 but 
it is really of 15th June. 1953 . There is another circumstance which leads us to 
the same conclusion . The trammers Khata has been written by this very clerk 
K . P . Sarkar. He has stated that the letters " P " and " A " shown in the book are 
for showing their presence and absence and are made by him on the basis of 
& written report made by the attendance clerk . He has further said that the 
reports are sent by the attendance clerk at the end of the first shift if they related : 
to the first shift and on the next day if they related to the second or third shifts . 
Mr. Sarkar had marked the presence of the different workmen for 13th June 1953 . 
Even if these people worked in the first shift , the attendance clerk would have 
sent his report after 2 PM , on 13th June , 1953 . According to the evidence of Mr. 
K . P . Sarkar , he attended office up to 10 - 30 or 11 A , M . on 13th June 1953 and 
did not attend office after this on that day nor did he attend office on the next day 
( i.c , 14th ) , which was a Sunday . He could not have got the report of the atten 
dance clerk before he left duty on 13th . This would show that he must have 
made these entries on 15th , and his allegation that he was not allowed to work onı 
that day does not appear to be correct . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 262 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [PART II - SEC . 3 
= = - - = - = 

- --- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - -- - 
14 . The inanagement have then produced some documents in the handwriting 
of one K . C . Majumdar ( a clerk ) , showing that he must have worked at the office 
on 15th and 18th oř June . It however appears that this clerk was cither in the 
good books of the management; or for reasons best known to him , he was pre 
pared to work for the management even though his colleagues were not allowed 
to work . The local Agent Mr. Roy has admitted that even during the period of 
the so called strike, they had got bonus shects prepared by this K . C . Majumdar . 
Similarly it is quite possible that K , C . Majumdar may have been persuaded to 
write the above lotter s on the 16th , even though he may not have bech allowed 
to work on that day or even though he may have been on strike. It may even be 
that whereas other clerks were not allowed to work , K . C . Majumdar may have 
been asked to work clandestinely . The mere fact that K . C . Majumdar wrote 
one or two letters on the 16th does not necessarily mean that all clerks did work 
on that day . "I here is no other document in the handwriting of any other clerk 
to show that any of them did any work on 16th . On the other hand , we have the 
admission of Mr. Roy that the presence of the office staff was marked every day 
on a hazice sheet, which was sent from day to day to their Head Office and that 
such a hazrec sheet was sent to the Head Office on 16th June, but it did not show 
the presence of any clerk , but it showed the presence only of the sweeper and the 
mess kamin If all the clerks were present on 16th as alleged , there is no reason 
why the hazree sheet of that day should not have shown any clerk having been 
present on that day . In this connection , it was said that hazree sheels were sent 
by the clerks directly to the Head Office without showing it to the manager or 
the local Agent and the clerks must have therefore not written the name of any 
clerk in the hazree sheet of 10th with a view to create evidence . As said above , 
this does not appear to be probable . If the clarks were really attending to their 
duty on 16th , their presence would certainly have been marked in the hazree 
shect. It is too much to believe that the clerks had already entered into a cons 
piracy to create false evidence. It they had really attended the office and done 
-some work on 16th , there would have been some other documents in their hand 
writing sliowing their presence on that day . 

15 . It is an admitted fact that the clerks have not been paid their wages for 
15th and 16th June. Mr Roy says that they Ollered wages for these days to the 
clerks, but they refused to accept them This also does not appear to be natural 
or probable . There is nothung to substantiate the allegation of Mr. Roy that the 
clerks were otiered wages for 15th and 10th Junc. This also shows that the 
clerks must not have worked on 15th and 16th . 


18 . We have then the fact hat on 15th June 195 , the Union wrote a letter to 
the Regional Labour Commissioner stating inter alia that the management had 
suspended all work at the colliery without any notice and that they should be 
directed to resume work inuediately . This letter is produced at appendix B 
annexed to the complaint, Mr. Das Gupta , Office Secretary of the Bihar Colllery 
Mazdoor Sangh , who wrote this letter has stated that some workmen came to 
his office on 15th and told him this , and thereupon he wrote this letter . It appears 
that on that very day, the Concillation Officer wrote a letter to the Manager ot 
the colliery stating inter alia that it was reported to him by the Bihar Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh that the management had locked out the mine without any notice . 

The local Agent Mr. Roy , who is the only witness examined on behalf of the 
management denied that the Conciliation Officer wrote any letter to them on 
15t ı June 1953 informing them that the Union had complaired to him that they 
had locked out their mine . IIe also stated that no such letter was ever received 
by him or by the manager . On this , the Ale of the Conciliation Oficer was called 
for and it contained a receipt signed by the manager acknowledging the receipt 
of the above letter . It also bore the seal of the colliery. It would thus be clear 
that on 15th June 1953 itself. the management were informed that the union had 
made a complaint that the management had locked out the mine without any 
notice No reply was given to this letter nor was the above allegation denied by 
the management before the Concillation Officer at the conciliation proceedings on 
The 17th . 

17. On the whole , I am satisfied that the management refused work to all 
workmen from the 15th , though Il appears that one or two clerks may have been 
allowed to do some work on 15th but on and from 18th , no clerk was allowed to 
work . The manual workers were not allowed to work on and from 13th . In my 
- opinion , it was a case of lock out from 13th . 15th and 18th respectively in he 
case of different workers and it was not a case of strike from 17th 

18. I am constrained to observe that the management in the present case have 
shown callous disregard for the workmen and also have shown scant respect for 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

263 
-- - - = 
law . They never paid the wages regularly to the workmen nor did they make 
statutory payments of bonus in time and it was only when pressure was brought 
on them by the authorities that they did so . Even in doing so , they tried to 
inislead authorities. For instance, the bonus book shows that no payment for the 
last quarter of 1952 was made in time. The Labour Inspector passed an order on 3rd 
April to make the payments immediately and thereupon the management wrote 
the names of only 14 persons in the bonus register and made payments to them , 
though really Si persons werc entitled to these payments . It was only after the Ins 
pector made an endorsement again on 13th May 1953 that they entered other names 
in the books. We then find that in the register of wages , the payments said to have 
been made to the vorkmen were shown as more than what the workmen were 
actually paid . Again it was at the instance of the Senior Labour Inspector that 
these entries were corrected and amounts actually paid were shown in these 
registers. These discrepancies werc not for only one week but for all the weeks 
of March . Then we find that when the present complaint was Aled and it was 
alleged by the workmen in the complaint that K . P . Sarkar , Badal Das and K . C . 
Ghosli had noi been paid their wages for certain periods, the management in their 
reply stated that they had made these payments to these people . It turns out 
however that these payments were made only on 14th August 1953, that is , after 
the present complaint was Alcd . It is true that the payments were made before 
the written statement was filed by the management; the nianagement should 
therefore have stated in the written statement that they had made the payments 
after the complaint was filed . On the contrary , they stated not only that the 
wurkmen had already been paid but that the allegations made in the complaint 
regarding non -payment of wages and bonus were false and unfounded . An 
impression was thus sought to be created as if he payments had been made 
Hefore the complaint was filcd . 


19 . I may now reler to the case of K . P . Sarkar. It was alleged by the 
management in the written stateinent that this clerk was originally appointed and 
was working in Calcutta office of the Manaying Agent and was transferred as a 
relieving hand at the colliery in October 1952 . It was further alleged that there 
was not sufficient work at the colliery and so he was transferred to the Calcutta 
office but he refused to go to Calcutta and disobeyed the order of transfer and 
thereupon his services were dispensed with from 6th June 1953. K . P . Sarkar 
denies that he was transferred or that he was dismissed . In his evidence , the 
local Agent, Mr. Roy had to admit that Mr. Sarkar was appointed at the Calcutta 
ollice on trial to see wliether his work was satisfactory and that he worked there 
only for 15 days in July 1952. He was appointed to the colliery in September 
or October 1952 , as a vacancy had occurred in the colliery . Thus the allegation 
in the written statement that Mr. Sarkar was appointed to the Calcutta office and 
was transferred to the colliery office is not true. Mr. Sarkar worked in the 
Calcutta office on trial to see if his work was satisfactory . After working for 
15 days, he had to wait for a month or two till a vacancy occurred at the colliery 
and then he was appointed at the colliery . Thus the allegations in this respect 
made in the written statement are not true . 


20. It has then been said that Mr. Sarkar was transferred to the Calcutta Office 
and he refused to carry out the orders of transfer. It has been said that the 
Managing Agent wrote a letter to the manager about the transfer and the 
manager personally called Mr. Sarkar and told him about the order and Mr. Şarkar 
refused to go to Calcutta . The manager has not been examined . There is no 
written order passed by the manager about the alleged transfer . About the 
alleged dismissal also there is no order of dismissal . It is said that the manager 
wrote to the Head Office and the Head Office replied that Mr. Sarkar should be 
dismissed and the manager orally communicated that order to Mr. Sarkar. No 
charge - sheet was served on him nor was his explanation asked for nor was , as 
I said above , any written order passed about the alleged dismissal. The manager 
who is said to have communicated the order has not been examined . The local 
Agent Mr. Roy says that the manager communicated the orders to Mr. Sarkar 
in his presence but I do not believe him . The most curious part of the whole 
affair is that though Mr. Sarkar is said to have been dismissed with effect from 
6th June 1953, he was actually allowed to work thereafter and it is not in dispute 
that he did work at least up to 13th June 1953 . As I held above, he has also 
probably worked on the 15th and still we are asked to believe that he had been 
dismissed from 6th June 1953. 


21. The other curious fact is that Mr. Sarkar has been paid his wagęs up to 
6th June 1953. As I said above, Mr. Sarkar was admittedly allowed to work at 


264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1964 


(PART II — SEC . 3 


least upto 13th ; his presence was also marked in the registers of the company , 
According to the management, he had worked upto and inclusive of 16th and still 
he has not been paid beyond 6th . When the local Agent Mr. Roy was questioned 
about it, he said that the management were ready and wllling to pay his wages 
lipto 16th ; but for reasons best known to him , he did not accept the wages beyond 
6th June 1953 . Mr. Roy also said that it was not correct to say that when 
Mr. Sarkar demanded the wages for the week ending 13th June 1953, the manage 
ment said that they were not willing to pay , as he had refused to carry out the 
orders of transfer. On a letter of the Regional Labour Commissioner of 1st 
December 1953 being shown to him , he admitted that their manager must have 
told the Labour Inspector that Mr. Sarkar was not paid his wages for week ending 
13th June 1953 as he had not carried out the orders oť transfer to Calcutta , 


22 . I do not believe that Mr. Sarkar was transferred to the Calcutta office 
nor do I believe that he refused to carry out the sald order . I also do not believe 
that he was dismissed from 6th June 1953. I am of opinion that he was in service 
all along and worked at the colliery upto 15th June 1953 , and is entitled to his 
wages as such . 


23. As I held above, he and other clerks were not allowed to work by the 
management from 18th . The manual labourers had not been allowed to work 
from 13th and some from the 15th . The workmen were not allowed to work 
probably because stocks had accumulated at the colliery . The management 
instead of having recourse to legitimate means took law into their own hands 
and did not allow workmen to do any work . The workmen , who had not been 
receiving their wages and bonus etc . in time, had already formed a union , and 
at a meeting held on 14th , they elected Mr. Sarkar as their President. A copy our 
this letter was sent to the management by the Union on 15th of June and must 
have reached the management on 16th . It appears that on receipt of this , the 
management thought it fit to stop the clerks also from working at the colliery . 
It was a clear case of victimisation . 


24 . The management have then produced two applications said to have been 
given by different workmen on 30th August 1953 and 1st October 1953 respectively . 
The first of them bears thumb marks of three persons who stated that they 
assured the management that they would never resort to a strike in the colliery 
and promised to join their duties from the next day . It is further stated that they 
had no claim against the company. The second letter purports to be passed by 
46 persons who stated that they had stopped work from the 17th June , as they were 
misied by other people , and that they had now realised their mistake and were 
sorry and informed the management that they would join their duties from the 
next day . They further assured the management that they would never do 80 
in future and hoped to be excused for the folly . It may be noted at the outset 
that both these letters are written by the local Agent Mr. Roy and not by any 
Independent person . The first bears the thumb marks of three persons and the 
second bears thumb marks of 46 persons and signature of one person . In other 
words, almost everyone who passed these two documents was illiterate , The 
persons who has signed the second letter , does not know Bengali, though the letter 
that was signed by him was written in Bengali Mr. Roy is evidently an interest 
ed person . The workmen were out of employment for a long time. In the 
circumstances , if a writing was written by the Agent of the management, and 
illiterate workmen were made to put their thumb marks thereon before they 
were allowed to resume duties , such a writing would have no value . Itcannot be 
taken to be a document passed of their own free wlil by the workmen after under 
standing the nature of the document. I do not attach any importance to these 
letters . 


25 . The result is that the complaint must be granted . As I said above, the 
complaint has been made by 82 workmen ; but out of these people , the manage 
ment have already allowed 73 workmen to join their duties from 1st October 1953, 
while nine persons mentioned in Exhibit 17 have not been allowed to join duties. 
These nine persons must be reinstated to their original posts , provided they offer 
themselves tor the same within one month of the award becoming enforceable . 
These persons should be paid thelr back wages and given all the benefits of 
Dearness allowance, cash concessions, free rice , bonus etc , as if they have been 
in service all along. The arrears must be paid to them within one month of the 
award becoming enforceable . The other 73 complainants must be paid their 
wages and other benefits from the date they were not allowed to work till the 
date of their relnstatement, as if they were on duty during that period also . 


PART II Sec , 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


265 


These amounts must be paid to them within one month from the date of the award 
becoming enforceable . I pass my award accordingly . 
Dated 12th January , 1954 . 

( Sd .) L . P . Dave, Chairman . 
Central Govt s., Industrial Tribunal Dhanbad. 

[No. LR. 2 ( 365 ) . ] 


S . R . O . 365 . - In pursuance oť section 17 ot the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under sec 
tion 33A of the said Act from Shri Darbari Mian , a workman of Digwadih 
Coiliery . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No . 341 OF 1953 . 

(arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of application U / S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

PRESENT 
Shri L . P . Dave , B . A . L . L . B . - Chairman . 

PARTIES 
Shri Darbari Mian , Pump Khalasi, Digwadih Colliery, M / S Tata Iron & 
Steel Co. Ltd ., P .O . Jealgora , Distt. Manbhum , Bihar .- Complainant. 

Vs. 
M / S Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd., Jamadoba, P .O . Jealgora , Distt. Manbhum , 
Bihar ,- Opposite party 

APPEARANCES 
Shri B . N . Sharma, General Secretary , Tata s Collieries Labour Association , 

P . O . Jealgora , Distt . Manbhum , Bihar . – For the Complainant. 
Shri D . Narsingh , Chief Personnel Omcer , M / S Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., 
P .O . Jealgora , Dostt. Manbhum , Bihar - For the Opposite party . 

AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleges that he has been discharged from service by the 
manager of the Digwadih colliery belonging to the opposite party with effect 
from 31st August 1953 on the alleged ground that he has completed sixty years 
of age. This was done during the pendency of conciliation proceedings and dur 
ing the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 to which the opposite party and 
their workmen were parties . The opposite party thereby committed a breach 
of section 33 of the Industrial Disputos Act. The Conciliation Officer who was 
moved in the matter examined the question in detail and suggested to the Super 
intendent of Collieries not to terminate the complainant s service ; but still, an 
order of dismissal was passed . The complainant further alleges that the standing 
orders do not contain any provision for superannuation and also that the com 
plainant was not sixty years of age but only 44 years of age and hence the order 
of his discharge was not proper. He has also contended that the alleged rule 
about superannuation was never enforced before 1953 and that he was never 
examined even by the company s medical officer for ascertaining his age . He 
therefore prayed that he should be reinstated from 30th August 1953 with back 
W ages. 

3 . The opposite party by its written statement Exhibit 6 contends that it had 
not violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It fur 
ther contends that according to the provisions of its Retiring Gratuity Rules, 
every permanent un - covenanted employee must retire from service on attaining 
the age of sixty years. The applicant cannot make a grievance that this rule 
was not enforced for some time. On 30th July 1952 his attention was drawn to 
hus agc as mentioned in his service card and he was advised medical examination 
if he desired an extension of service after completion of 60 years . He neither 
challenged the age as mentioned in the letter nor got himself medically examin 
ed . On 14th February 1953 , he was again informed about his age mentioned in 
the service card and was offered three months time to produce evidence or un 
dergo medical examination to disprove the age mentioned in service card . He 


266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[PART II ~ Sec . 3 


did not challenge the age nor look any steps to disprove the age recorded in 
seryice card , according to which he cinpleted 60 years of age on 1st January 
1953. Still the opposite party waited till 20th July 1953, when he was informed 
that he would be superannuated from 26th July 1953 . At the instance of the 
Conciliation Officer , he was allowed to continue his duties; and after careful 
consideration , the opposite party informed him on 21st August 1953 that his ser 
vice would terminate from 31st August 1953. According to the conditions of 
service applicable to the coniplainant, he had retired automatically on his attain 
ing the age of 60 years. The opposite party theretorc did not commit a breach 
of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act . It therefore urges that the com 
plaint should be dismissed . 

4 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as a Pump 
Khalusi in one of the collieries belonging to the opposite party and that his 
services were terminated with effect from 31st August 1953. At that time Refer 
ence No. 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal. The opposite party and 
their workmen were parties to this reference . The complainant alleges that by 
terminating his services , the opposite party had committed a breach of Section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, as they had not obtained the specific permission in 
writing of this Tribunal. 

5 . It has been held in the case of Joseph Alva and General Motors India 
Limited reported at 1953 , Vol. II, L .LJ. page 841, that termination of service of 
an employee even on the ground ol superannuation would requirc the specific 
permission of the Tribunal under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, if 
the termination is to be effected during the pendency of a dispute before a Tri 
bunal. Hence in the present case , the opposite party committed a breach of Sec . 
tion 33 by terminating the services of the complainant with effect from 30th . . 
August 1953 , during the pendency of Reference No . 6 of 1952 without obtaining 
the permission of this Tribunal. 

6 . The opposite party s case is that they have not in any way altered the 
conditions of service applicable to the complainant because under the terms 
of service an employec on attaining the age of 60 years would be superannuated 
and must retire . In this connection , the opposite party relied on the Retiring 
Gratuity Rules of the company . These rules have not been produced in the 
present case ; but a copy thereof has been produced before this Tribunal at 
Exhibit 60 in miscellaneous application No. 123 of 1953, which was also a casc 
of termination of services on the ground of superannuation . These rules were 
framed in 1937. It however appcars that they were made in the first instance for 
the main factory of the opposite party at Jamshedpur. The Deputy Superintendent 
of Collieries of the opposite party Mr. Engineer was examined as a witness at 
Exhibit 21 in the above procecdings . The parties in the present case have 
stated that the deposition of Mr. Engineer recorded in the above case ( namely 
in Application No . 123 of 1953 ) should be read as evidence in the present case . 
In that deposition , Mr. Engineer has stated that the scheme of Retiring Gratuity 
Rules was introduced in the collieries about 10 years ago . He could not remem 
ber the exact year , but it was certainly after 1937 . He gave his above deposi 
tion on 22nd September 1953 and this would mean that the Rules of Gratuity 
were made applicable to the employees employed in the collieries in about 
1948 . 


7 . So far as the present complainant is concerned , there is nothing on record 
to show as to when the present complainant joined service . It however appears 
that originally he started service under a contractor of the opposite party and 
was later taken up as a direct employee of the opposite party . Mr. Narsingh 
on behalf of the management told me that he ( complainant) had joined service 
on 28th January 1938 . Mr. Sharma on behalf of the complainant urged that this 
was the date on which the complainant was taken up under the direct employ 
ment of the management but that he was already under the employment of a 
contractor of the opposite party and the date of his joining service should be 
taken to start from the date he joined the contractor s service. I do not agree 
with this contention . As long as the complainant was working under the con 
tractor , he was the contractor s employee and it would be only when he became 
the direct employee of the oppositę party that the conditions of service of 
employees of the opposite party would become applicable to him . I would 
therefore hold that the complainant would be governed by the conditions of 
service which were in vogue in 1938. 

8 . As I said above, the evidence of Mr. Engineer shows that the retiring 
gratuity rules of the company were applied to the collieries in about 1943 . The 
complainant had already joined the opposite party s service prior to that. In 
other words, when he joined service , the Gratuity Rules were not in force. In 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


267 


his evidence , Mr. Engineer has admitted that excepting for the rule contained in 
the gratuity rules, there was or is no rule that a workman must retire on 
attaining the age of 60 years . He also admitted that there was no rule or agree 
ment before this about a workman retiring at a particular age and the practice 
was that the persons continued to work till they were found physically unfit. 
In other words , when the complainant joined service in 1938 , there was no con 
dition of service that he would have to retire when he completed the age of 
60 years. On the contrary , the practice was that he would be continued in ser 
vice as long as he was physically fit to work . 

9 . It is true that retiring gratuity rules contain a rule ( Rule 5 ) which lays 
down that every un - covenanted employee of the company must retire from ser 
vice on attaining the age of sixty years (unless his service is extended as men 
tioned therein ) . In my opinion , this rule cannot affect a person who had already 
joined the service of the company before the rules were framed or introduced . 
By framing a set of rules , an employer could not change or prejudice the terms 
of service of an employee , who was already in service before that date . The 
employee in service should ordinarily be given the option to elect whether he 
should accept the new rules or not. There is nothing on record to show that 
when the gratuity scheme was introduced , the workmen were even informed 
about it , much less given an option to elect the rules or not . Mr Engineer 
stated that he was not sure whether a notice was put up on the notice board 
about the introduction of the gratuity scheme. It may also be noted that though 
the rules were framed in 1937 and were applied to the collieries in about 1943 
or thereabouts , the rule about the superannuation was not enforced till 1952 . 
In that year , the management started issuing notices to the employees asking 
them whether they accepted the ages mentioned in their service card as correct . 
This would also show that till 1952 the old workmen may not be aware of the 
company having framed a rule that all the employees must retire on attaining 
the age of 60 years . It may lastly be noted that even under the above Rules , 
no employee was or is entitled as of a right to any payment of gratuity . In 
other words, though the company had framed rules for gratuity , the rules are 
such as could not be enforced by an employee so as to claim gratuity on 
retirement. 

10 . In the present case, the complainant was sent a letter on 30th July 1952 
that according to his service card , he had completed 59 years of age on 1st Janu 
ary 1952 and that under the Gratuity Rules , employees who conipleted 60 years 
of age were liable to be superannuated . He was further informed that in special 
cases, extension could be given by the company till the employee completed 
the age of 61 years , provided he was declared physically fit by the Colliery 
Medical Officer . The complainant was therefore advised to get himself medi 
cally examined by the Colliery Medical Officer , if he desired an extension of 
service after he completed 60 years of age. It further appears that he was given 
a notice on 14th February 1953 that according to his service card his age on 1st 
January 1952 was 59 years and as under the Gratuity Rules the employee who 
completed 60 years of age were liable to be superannuated , he was given an 
opportunity in case he did not accept his above mentioned age , to submit within 
three months from the receipt of the notice documentary evidence in support of 
his contention . It appears that the complainant did not take any action as 
required by this letter /or this notice . It was argued from this that he must 
be deemed to have accepted his age as correct. The complainant is an illiterate 
workman and merely because he did not protest against this letter or notice , it 
could not be said that he had accepted the terms thereof. There cannot be an 
estoppel, firstly because his silence was due to ignorance and illiteracy , and 
secondly because he has not led the management to believe a particular thing . 
Further even if the complainant had already attained the age of 60 years , his 
service could not be terminated so long as he was physically fit. It is not the 
case of the opposite party that the complainant is physically unfit. In any 
case , therefore , they were not justified in terminating his services . 

11. In the result, the order of termination of the complainant s services from 
31st August 1953 is not proper , and is set aside; it is directed that he should 
be reinstated in service with effect from 31st August 1953. He is also entitled 
to wages , bonus, and other advantages which he would have got if he had con 
tinued in service . The arrears should be paid to him within one month from 
the date of the award becoming enforceable . 
The 13th January, 1954 . 

( Sd .) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 

[No. LR . 2 ( 365 ) / I.) 


268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II — 9 C . 3 


S . R . O . 366 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 147 
(XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 35A 
of the said Act from Shri Biyas, a workman of 6 and 7 Pits Colliery , Jamadoba. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No . 400 OF 1953 

( arising out of Reference No. 6 of 1952 ) 
In the matter of application U / S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 
PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave , B . A ., LL . B . -- Chaiman . 
PARTIES : 
Sri Biyas , Recruiting Chaprari, 6 and 7 Pits Colliery, Jamadoba, Bhaga F . O 
Manbhum District, Bihar. Complainant. 

Vs, 
The Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., Jamadoba, Jealgora P . O . Manbhum , 

Bihar .. Opposite Party . 
APPEARANCES : 
Şhrl B N . Sharma, General Secretary , The Tata s Collieries Labour Associa 

tion , P . O . Jealgora , District Manbhum , Bihar .- - For the Complainant . 
Shri D . Narsingh , Chief Personnel Officer , The Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., 

Jamadoba , P . O . Jealgora , District Manbhum , Bihar . For the Opposite 
party . 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant alleges that he has been discharged from service by the 
manager of Pits 6 and 7 belonging to the opposite party with effect from 30th 
August 1953 on the alleged ground that he had completed sixty years of age . This 
was done during the pendency of conciliation proceedings and during the pendency 
of Reference No. 6 of 1952 to which the opposite party and their workmen were 
parties The opposite party thereby committed a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act . The Concillation Officer who was moved in the matter 
examined the question in detail and suggested to the Superintendent of Collieries 
not to terminate the complainant s service ; but still, an order of dismissal W as 
passed . The complainant further alleges that the standing orders do not contain 
any provision for superannuation and also that the complainant was not sixty years 
of age but only 50 years of age and hence the order of his discharge was not 
proper. He therefore prayed that he should be reinstated from 30th August 1953 
with back wages. 

3 . The opposite party by its written statenient Exibit 6 contends that it had 
not violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It further 
contends that according to the provisions of the Retiring Gratuity Rules of the 
opposite party , every permanent un - covenanted employee must retire from service 
on attaining the age of sixty years. As according to the service card of the com 
plainant, his age was over 60 years of age on 1st May 1953, he was given an 
opportunity to produce evidence about his age or to submit himself for medical 
examination by the colllery medical officer . The complainant could not produce 
any documentary evidence about his age and on examination by the medical officer 

on 18th April 1953 , he was found to be of over 60 years of age The complainant 
- was informed accordingly that he would be superannuated from 17th May 1953. 
He made representations and thereupon he was re - examined by the medical 
officer on 12th May 1953 who confirmed his previous opinion The opposite party 
considered the representations made by the complainant and the opinion of the 
medical officer and informed him that he would be superannuated from 31st May 
1953. In the meantime. conciliation proceedings were taken up by the Concilia 
tron Olirer and hence the order of superannuation of the complainant from 31st 
May 1953 was cancelled . According to the conditions of service applicable to the 
complainant. he had retired automatically on his attaining the age of 60 years . 
He was therefore informed that his service would terminate from 30th August 
1953. The complainant never complained that the Gratuity Rules mcant a change 
of conditions of his service. The opposite party therefore urges that the com 
plaint should be disinissed . 


269 


- - - - 


Part II - - SFC . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 
- - - - - - - - - - -- 

- - - 
4 . It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as a recruiting 
chaprasi in one of the collieries belonging to the opposite party and that his 
services were terminated with effect from 30th August 1953 . At that time, 
Reference No . 6 of 1952 was pending before this Tribunal. The opposite party 
and their workmen were parties to this reference . The complainant alleges that by 
terminating his services , the opposite party has committed a breach of Section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, as they had not obtained the specific permission 
in writing of this Tribunal. 


5 . It has been held in the case of Joseph Alva and General Motors India Limited 
reported at 1953. Vol. II , L .L . J . P . 841 that termination of service of an employee 
even on the ground of superannuation would require the specific permission of 
the Tribunal under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , if the termination 
is to be effected during the pendency of a dispute before a Tribunal. Hence in 
the present case, the opposite party committed a breach of Section 33 by 
terminating the services of the complainant with effect from 30th August 1953 
during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 without obtaining the permision 
of this Tribunal. 


6 . The opposite party s case is that they have not in any way altered the 
conditions of service applicable to the complainant because under the terms of 
service an employee on attaining the age of 60 years would be superannuated and 
inust retire . In this connection , the opposite party relied on the Retiring Gratuity 
Rules of the company . These rules have not been produced in the present case , 
but a copy thereof has been produced before this Tribunal at Exhibit 60 in mis 
cellaneous application No. 123 of 1953, which was also a case of termination of 
services on the ground of superannuation . These Rules were framed in 1937 . It 
however appears that they were made in the Arst instance for the main factory 
of the opposite party at Jamshedpur . The Deputy Superintendent of Collierles of 
the opposite party Mr. Engineer was examined as a witness at Exhibit 21 in the 
above proceedings. The parties in the present case have stated that the deposi 
tion of Mr. Engineer recorded in the above case (namely in Application No. 123 
of 1933 ) should be read as evidence in the present case . In that deposition 
Mr. Engineer has stated that the scheme of Retiring Gratuity Rules was introduced 
in the collieries about 10 years ago . He could not remember the exact year , but 
it was certainly after 1937 . He gave his above deposition on 22nd September 
1953 and this would mean that the Rules of Gratuity were made applicable to 
the employees employed in the collierics in about 1943. 


7 . So far as the present complainant is concerned , there is nothing on record 
to show as to when the present complainant joined service . It however appears 
that originally he started service under a contractor of the opposite party and 
was later taken up as a direct employee of the opposite party . Mr. Narsingh on 
behalf of the management told me that he ( complainant) joined service on 28th 
March 1945. Mr. Sharma on behalf of the complainant urges that this was the 
date on which the complainant was taken up under the direct employment of the 
management but that he was already under the employment of a contractor of 
the opposite party and the date of his joining service should be taken to start 
from the date he joined the contractor s service . I do not agree with this conten 
tion . As long as the complainant was working under the contractor, he was the 
contractor s employee and it would be only when he became the direct employee 
of the opposite party that the conditions of service of employees of the opposite 
party would become applicable to him . I would therefore hold that the com 
plainant would be governed by the conditions of service which were in voguc in 
1945 . 


8 . As I said above, the Retiring Gratuity Rules of the opposite party were 
Introduced in the collieries in about 1943. Rulc 5 of these rules lays down that 
every uncovenanted employee of the company must retire from scrvice on 
attaining the age of 60 years . Mr. Engineer has admitted in his evidence that this 
rulc was never applied to any one till 1952 . Hence merely because at the time 
when the complainant joined service, the Retiring Gratuity Rules were in force , 
It could not be said that the complainant knew that the rules provided for his 
compulsory retirenient on his attaining the age of 60 years. 


9 . It was in 1952 that the opposite party began to issue notices to the employees 
asking them whether they accepted the ages mentioned in their service cards as 
correct . A similar notice was issued to the present complainant on 2nd January 
1953 . A copy thrcof has been produced as Annexure A to the written statement, 


270 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [PART II - Sec. 3 
= 

= = = = = = = 
It mentions that the complainant s age according to his service card was 58 years 
9 months on 1st January 1952 and that as under the Gratuity Rules , employees 
who completed 60 years of age were liable to be superannualed , he was given an 
opportunity , in case be did not accept his above mentioned age , to submit 
documentary evidence in support of his contention . This would go to show that 
the complainant must not have been aware about the rule about the superannuation 
and that is why he was given the above notice. In my opinion , the complainant 
was therefore not bound by the above rule , contained in the Retiring Gratuity 
Rules . No such rule has been incorporated in the standing orders of the company, 
which govern the conditlons of service of the employees. The complainant is an 
illiterate person . It was for the opposite party to have established that the 
complainant joined service with the full knowledge that he would have to retire 
on attaining the age of 60 years and also with the full krowledge about the pro 
Kedure for proving his age. 


10. It appears that as soon as the company gave the above notice to the com 
plainant, he disputed the correctness of his age . It appears that he was sent to 
the medical officer of the opposite party who gave an opinion that the complainant 
was over 60 years of age. The coinplainant challenged this opinion . He also 
pointed out that he had already been examined by the colliery doctor in 1949 when 
he was made a member of the Provindent Fund and at that time he had stated . 
his age and that it would show that he was fifty two years of age in 1953. A 
copy of this letter (dated 12th May 1963 ) has been produced by the opposite party 
as Annexure Dl to the written statement. It appears that on this he was again 
examined by the medical officer who gave a certificate on that very day that the 
complainant was over 60 years of age . In my opinion , this procedure was not 
proper . The medical oficer had already given a certificate on 18th April 1953 
that the complainant was over 60 years of age and human nature being what it 
is , it was not likely that even if he had made a mistake he would admit it . The 
management ought to have sent the complainant to another medical officer and 
not to the same medical officer . They should also have referred to the report of 
the medical officer who is alleged to have examined the complaint in 1949 ( at the 
time of his becoming a member of the Provident Fund ) and sent that certificate 
also to the medical officer when sending the complalnant for re -examination . It 
appears that the complainant was examined by the Civil Surgeon , Civil Hospital, 
Dhanbad , on 29th May 1953 who gave a certificate that he appeared to be 50 years 
old , 


11 . It is true that ordinarily the Tribunal would not interfere in the decisior 
of the management when they had evidence before them to show that the age of 
a person was 60 years , unless it was shown that their action was not bonafide 
It is also true that when there was a conflict of medical opinion , it was for the 
management to decide which evidence they should accept and if they accepted 
the evidence of their own medical officer , it could not be said that their action 
was improper . But in the present case , the management did not adopt a proper 
procedure. They sent the complainant for re-examination to the very same 
medical officer , who had already examined him ; whereas they should really have 
sent him to another medical officer As I pointed out above , the report of the 
medical officer , who is said to have examined the complainant in 1949, should also 
have been brought to the medical officer s notice along with other relnvant facts , 
namely , the entry made in the service card as also the entry made in his applica 
tion for Provident Fund . As proper procedure was not adopted . It is doubtful 
whether the decision of the management that the complainant had already attain 
ed the age of 60 years can or should be accepted . I need not however give a 
definite decision on this point; because , in by opinion , the complainant could not 
be made to retire only on the ground that he had attained the age of 60 year s. 


12 . As admitted by Mr. Engineer , the prartice before the introduction of the 
above rule was that the persons continued to work till they were found physically 
unfit . The complainant has been found to be physically fit according to the 
certificate of the Assistant Surgeon , Civil Hospital, Dhanbad . The medical officer 
of the opposite party has not stated that the complainant was physically not At 
nor is it the opposite party s case that the complainant is physically not fit. 


13 . In the result, the order of termination of the complainant s service from 
30th August 1953 is not proper , and is set aside ; it is directed that he should be . 
reinstated in service with effect from 30th August 1953. He is also entitled to 
wages , bonus, and other advantages which he would have got if he had continued 


PART II_ SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 271 

- - 
in service . The arrears should be paid to him within one month from the date of 
the award becoming enforceable , 
.Dated 13th January , 1954. 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


[No. LR .2 (365 ), II. ] 
S . R . O . 367. — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the dispute between the Bank of Jaipur Ltd ., 
Ahmedabad , and its workmen . 
BEFORE MR. S . H . NAIK , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY, 

Reference ( IT - CG ) No. 1 of 1953 

ADJUDICATION 

BETWEEN 
The Bank of Jalpur Limited , Ahmedabad 

AND 

Its Employees . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute re: notice pay, leave pay, provident fund 
and compensation , 


APPEARANCES : 

Mr A . R . Savoor, Ag. Manager, Bombay branch for the Bank , 
Mr. R . M . Shukla with Mr. C . D . Rawal for the employees . 

AWARD 
This is a reference made by the Central Government under section 10 ( 1 ) ( c ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. The dispute relates to four demands made 
by the ex - employees of one of the branches of the Bank of Jaipur at Ahmedabad 
which have been referred to in the Schedule annexed to the order of reference. 

2 . The facts leading to the dispute are briefly these . The Bank of Jaipur 
had two branches at Ahmedabad , one known as the Maskati Market branch ( or 
the Ahmedabad branch ) and the other as Relief Road branch . The Bank pro 
posed to close down both the branches as deposits at these branches were very 
poor and there was no prospects of attracting more deposits in spite of strenuous 
efforts put in by the Bank in that direction . The expenses at these branches 
were out of proportion to their earning capacity . The Bank therefore served a 
notice on each of the employees of the Ahmedabad branch on the 28th March 
1951, stating that it would close down that branch on the expiry of two months 
from the date of notice ( Ex . U - 1 ) . On 26th May 1951 the Bank served a second 
notice on the employees concerned stating that their services would come to an 
end on the expiry of one month from the date of notice ( Ex . U - 2 ) and paid them 
in advance the wages for that period . Before the expiry of this notice the 
Bank discharged the employees on the 9th June 1951 . They have therefore 
raised the present dispute. 

3 . Mr. Savoor raised an initial objection to the appearance of Mr. Shukla on 
behalf of the employees concerned in this case on the ground that the latter is a 
lawyer. Mr. Shukla stated in reply that although he has passed his LL . B ., 
examination he has been working only as a trade upionist and he has neither 
obtained a sanad to practise nor practised in any law court as an advocate. Thege 
facts are not denied on behalf of the Bank . I do not think therefore that there 
can be any legal objection to the appearance of Mr. Shukla for the employees 
concerned . 

4 . The employees have made four demands on the Company . I shall now 
deal with these demands in their serial order . 


Demand No. 1 . -- " Payment for the period of notice of termination of service ." 

5 . Ahmedabad Banks Employees Union which represents the employees con 
cerned in this dispute has put in a statement of claim in which it states that while 
throwing out of employment the eight senior employees of the Ahmedabad 


; 


272 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 [ PART 11 - - SEC. 3 
- - - 

= = = = = - - = - = = 
branch the Bank retained men who were junior to them in service and has there 
by caused injustice to the workmen who have raised the present dispute . 


6 . The award of the All India Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) - hereinafter 
called the Sen Award - was in force when the Bank served its Arst notice of termi 
nation of service on its employees on the 28th March , 1951. It is in accordance 
with paragraph 322 ( 7 ) of that award that the Bank gave two months notice to 
the employees concerned . That notice expired on the 26th May 1951. But 
instead of discharging the employees concerned on that day , the Bank continued 
them in service and gave them a fresh notice of one month on the said day . The 
second notice expired on the 26th June 1951 but before the expiry of that notice 
the Bank dispensed with the services of the employees on the 9th June 1951 . As 
the Bank continued in its service the employees of the Ahmedabad branch after 
the 26th May 1951, it must be deemed that it waived the notice issued on the 26th 
March 1951. Otherwise, it should have discharged all those employees on the 
26th May 1951. It therefore became necessary for the Bank to serve a fresh 
notice on the 26th May 1951 and the Bank did serve such a notice . As the Sen 
Award had been set aside by the Supreme Court on the 9th April 1951 it was not 
incumbent upon the Bank to give two months notice of termination of service 
as required by the said award . The Company could rely on its own rules and 
regulations. ft was urged by Mr. Şavoor that the Bank issued the notice , dated 
the 26th May 1951 in accordance with its rules and regulations, a copy of which 
is produced in these proceedings ( Ex , C - 2 ) . Even while following its own rules 
the Bank made a mistake . Rule 23 read with Rule 22 requires the Bank to give 
a calendar month s notice to its employees " getting Rs. 100 and over " and two 
calendar months notice to those " getting Rs. 101 – 250 " . The statement produced 
by the Bank itself shows that out of thc 8 employees concerned in this reference 
4 were getting more than Rs. 100 per month and the remaining were getting less 
than Rs. 100 . The Bank should have therefore given one calendar month s 
notice ending on the 30th June 1951 to these getting less than Rs. 100 per month 
and two calendar months notice ending on the 31st July 1951 to these getting 
Rs. 101 - 250 per month . The Bank paid wages upto 26th June 1951 to the 8 
employees . I therefore direct the Bank to pay wages ( including allowances ) 
for four days to those who were getting Rs. 100 or less per month and wages 
( including allowances ) for one month and four days to those getting Rs. 101 - 250 , 
in the month of May 1951. 


Demand No. 2. - " Payment for the period of accumulated leave." 
7 . The Union states that, as the Bank is granting leave having regard to 
exigencies of work , the employees did not always get leave when they needed it . 
The rules of the Bank provide for privilege leave being granted which could be 
accumulated upto the limit laid down therein . The rules also provide for the 
grant of sick leave and casual leave . The Union prays that, as the services of 
the employees of the Ahmedabad branch were terminated for no fault of theirs, 
full wages for the period of accumulated leave should be ordered to be paid to 
them . 

8 . The Bank s reply to the demand is that as the Sen Award was not in force 
at the time of the closure its own leave rules applied to the employees and , 
according to its leave rule No . 9 , accumulated leave, if any, lapses on notice of 
termination of service given to or by an employee and no salary or allowance is 
payable for any leave unavailed of. According to the Bank therefore whatever 
accumulated leave stood to the credit of each of the retrenched employees lapsed 
on the termination of his service. 

9 . It is true that the Şen Award was not in operation at the 
time of the retrenchment in question and therefore the employees 
concerned were governed by the Bank s own leave rules. But the 
Bank is a " commercial establishment within the meaning of the 
definition given in section 2 ( 4 ) of the Bombay Shops and Establish 
ments Act, 1948 and therefore under the provisions of section 35 read with those 
of section 36 the retrenched employees would be entitled to wages for the leave 
at the rate given in section 36 of the said Act . These statutory provisions over 
ride the provisions of the Bank s own leave rules . 

10 . Under section 35 of the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act accumula 
tion of leave is allowed only to the extent mentioned therein . Under the Bank s 
leave rule No . 3 privilege leave at the rate of 2 days for every month of service 
and accumulation of such leave to the extent of 2 months are permissible and that 
is more advantageous that the provisions of section 35 of the aforesaid Act with 
regard to the quantum of such leave and accumulation thereof. Under section 


PART II - Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

273 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - - _ - - _ 
- - - - 
69 of the said Act therefore the employees are entitled to take benefit of the 
Bank s rules. 


- 


- 


11 . The Bank has produced a statement showing the quantum of leave to the 
credit of the employees concerned at the date of retrenchment. I therefore 
direct the Bank to pay to the employees concerned for the period of their accumu 
lated privilege leave wages at the rate specified in sction 36 of the Bombay Shops 
and Establishments Act. 


Demand No. 3. - “ Payment of provident fund including the employers 

contribution . " 


12 . The Bank has contended in its written statement that the provident fund 
including employer s contribution and interest thereon have been paid to every 
one of the employees concerned . This demand was not pressed by Mr. Shukla 
at the hearing. It is rejected as it no longer survives . 


Demand No. 4 . - " Payment of compensation for retrenchment." 


13. The Union has claimed compensation at the rate of one month s salary for 
each year of service for the retrenched employees on the ground that the Bank 
dispensed with the services of the senior men while retaining junior persons and 
it did not absorb the retrenched personnel in the other branches or the branches 
newly opened by it. 


14 . The Bank contends that the question of payment of compensation to the 
retrenched workmen does not arise in this case as sufficient notice had been given 
to the employecs concerned of the intended closure of the Ahmedabad branch . 
It has stated further that, although it offered to absorb the retrenched employees 
in other branches, they did not accept the offer . With regard to the grievance 
made by the Union that senior employees were retrenched while retaining junior 
ones the Bank s defence is that the whole of the staff of the Ahmedabad branch 
including both clerical and subordinate staff was retrenched , 


15 . It is important to note that the discharge of the workmen employed in the 
Ahmedabad branch was occasioned by the closure of that branch . The Union 
has not attributed any mala fides to the Bank . It does not allege that the 
retrenchment was due to any victimisation of the workmen concerned . The 
Calcutta Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal has laid down the principle on 
which retrenchment relief , that is , compensation for loss of employment for no 
fault of the employees, should be granted in the Presidency Jute Mills Co., Ltd ., 
775 . Presidency Jute Mills Co ., Employees Union ( I Labour Law Journal 1952 
p . 796 ) . Therein it is stated that in assessing the amount of compensation in 
such a case various factors have to be taken into consideration , viz . , the length 
of service of the employees , causes for retrenchment and the ability of the 
employer to pay. The Bombay Bench of the aforesaid Tribunal in the General 
Motors ( India ) , Ltd ., vs. Their workmen ( I Labour Law Journal 1953 p . 748 ) 
has expressed itself as follows on the question of payment of retrenchment relief : 
" Retrenchment relief is not a question of law but a question of fact depend 

ing upon varying circumstances existing at the date when retrench 
ment takes place . When persons are retrenched they have nothing 
to fall back upon and are subjected to the strains and stresses of 
unemployment, and retrenchment relief is given by tribunals to 
soften the rigours of the hardship which those unfortunate employees 
have to undergo ; nor must we be taken to say that certain other 
factors are altogether absent from consideration when we decide 
questions of retrenchment relief . When a person is deprived of his 
employment, he suddenly loses a career on which he had started with 
the hope and expectancy of a life long career of security , and even 
when he secures fresh employment he will have to start a fresh career 
with all its disadvantages ; and we cannot altogether ignore this 
aspect of the matter. Therefore , when considering the appropriate 
retrenchment relief applicable to any particular case , we have to take 
into account the sum total of all factors , including the wage -scales 
prevailing in the concern , the rate of provident fund , the scheme of 
gratuity or other retirement benefit which the company already has, 
as also the other indirect benefits which an employee ordinarily 
receives while in the employ of a concern , together with the financial 
capacity of the concern to pay retrenchment relief and the state of 
the labour market , . . . . . 


274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1954 


[PART II -- SEC . 3 


The considerations which can be urged against the Bank in this case are that the 
retrenched employees were permanent workmen who had put in fairly long 
service varying from 4 to 6 years and it did not observe the principle " last come, 
first go " in the matter of retrenchment. The Union has put in an affidavit to the 
effect that the staff of both the branches of the Bank of Jaipur at Ahmedabad had 
been appointed for the local area of Ahmedabad only and they were not informed 
either orally or in writing by the Bank authorities that they were liable to transfer 
from Ahmedabad to any arca outside it . The Bank has not brought any evidence 
to controvert this statement. The Bank did , as a matter of fact, transfer the 
staff of the accounts department of the Ahmedabad branch to the Relief Road 
branch after the closure of the former. It is clear therefore that while closing 
the Ahmedabad branch the Bank should have gone according to the length of 
service of the staff of both the branches taken together and terminated the services 
of the juniormost from the entire body of staff but they did not do so . 

16 . The circumstances which may be urged in favour of the Bank on the 
question of retrenchment relief are that it had given sufficient notice to the 
employees concerned of the intended closure of the branch . The Bank did offer 
to provide employment outside Ahmedabad for the retrenched personnel but they 
refused to accept the offer . Some of the retrenched staff have already secured 
employment elsewhere. According to this award the employees will get their 
notice pay as also their wages for the accumulated period of leave. The Bank 
falls in the " C " class of banks referred to in the Sen Award . The compensation 
provided for retrenchment of permanent bank employees under the All India 
Industrial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) - Shastri Award - is half a month s pay and 
allowances for every completed year of service subject to a minimum payment of 
two months pay and allowances. Having regard to the facts and circumstances 
of this case I think I should award compensation at the rate of 21 days wages 
and allowances for every year of service. 

17 . Reliance was placed by Mr. Shukla on an award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta in a complaint under section 33A made by the 
discharged employees of the Kanpur branch of the Jaipur Bank in support of his 
contention that compensation should be awarded in this case at the rate of one 
month s salary together with allowances for each year of service . He urged that 
no difference in the quantum of compensation should be made between the dis 
charged employees of the Ahmedabad branch and of the Kanpur branch of the 
same Bank . But the quantum of compensation must depend upon the facts of 
each case . I have stated above that having regard to the facts of this particular 
case it would meet the ends of justice if I award compensation at the rate of 21 
days wages and allowances for each year of service . I therefore direct the Bank 
to pay compensation to the retrenched staff of the Ahmedabad branch at the rate 
of 21 days wages and allowances for each year of service . Compensation shall 
be calculated on the basis of the wages and allowances drawn by the employees 
for the month of May 1951. For purposes of calculation service of six months or 
more shall be taken as one complete year of service and service of less than six 
months ignored . The amounts payable under this award shall be paid within two 
months from the date this award becomes enforceable . 
BOMBAY ; 

(Sd.) S . R . ADWALPALKAR , Secretary . 
The 9th January , 1954 . 

( Sd.) S . H . NAIK , Industrial Tribunal. 


[ No. LR - 100 (55 ) . ] 


New Delhi, the 25th January 1954 
S .R .O . 368. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Nand Lal Singh , a workman of Digwadih 
Colliery , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

APPLICATION No. 401 OF 1953 

( arising out of Reference No. 8 of 1952) 
In the matter of an application U / S 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave, B . A ., LL . B . - -Chairman . 


PART II — SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 

- 275 
= = = = = 

= = = 
PARTIES : 
Shree Nand Lal Singh , Census Clerk , Digwadih Colliery , P .O . Jealgora , Dist. 

Manbhum , Bihar. - Complainant, 


Vs. 


M / S . Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., Jamadoba, P . O . Jealgora , Dist. Manbhum . 

- -Opposite party . 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri B . N . Sharma, General Secretary , Tata s Collieries Labour Association , 

P .O . Jealgora , Dist. Manbbum , Bihar -- For the Complainant. 
Shri D . Narsingh , Chief Personnel Officer, M / S . Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd ., 

P . O . Jealgora, Dist. Manbhum , Bihar. – For the Opposite party . 


AWARD 
This is a complaint under Section 33A of Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The complainant Alleges that he was appointed as an underground munshi 
in 1945 and worked as such till November 1948 when he was transferred as a 
Census Clerk and since then he has been working as a clerk , He further alleges 
that because of his being an active member of the Tata Collicries Labour Associa 
tion , his promotion has been deliberately stopped and that when discriminatory 
trcatment was pointed out to the officers of the opposite party , they adopted an 
unreasonable and whimsical attitude. It is then alleged that in March 1953, the 
Superintendent of Collieries of the opposite party promoted seven clerks of the 
Digwadih colliery from a weekly rate to a monthly rate and the complainant s 
name was not included in the list; and that this amounted to a punishment and 
us it was inflicted during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 without the 
express permission of the Tribunal, the opposite party contravened the provisions 
of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act ; and hence the present complaint. 


3 . The opposite party contends that the application is legally not maintainable ; 
that the promotion from weekly rate to monthly rate was neither automatic nor 
was it a condition of service and the alleged action of the opposite party did not 
therefore amount to a contravention of any of the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Act . It is also contended that the refusal to promote the complainant from weekly 
lo monthly rate was not unreasonable or whimsical or by way of punishment. 
The opposite party was not aware about the complainant being a member of the 
Tata Collieries Labour Association . The opposite party considers the category of 
a nunshi different from that of a clerk and the seniority in the matter of promotion 
of a clerk was considered from the date of appointment in that category . It wAS. 
therefore urged that the present complaint should be dismissed . 


4 . It is an udmitted fact that the complainant has been in the service of the 
opposite party in the Digwadih colliery belonging to it. He joined service as an 
underground munshi in 1945 . He was taken up as a clerk in December 1948 and 
he has been working as such . The opposite party has two scales of pay for clerks. 
One is a monthly rate and the other is the weckly rate . It is also not in dispute 
that the monthly rate is higher than the weekly rate . It is also an admitted fact 
that the company has a particular number of posts for the monthly rate and a 
particular number for the weekly rate . Whenever a vacancy occurs in the monthly 
rated clerks, a clerk drawing weekly rate is usually appointed ( promoted ) to the 
monthly rated post. In March 1953, the management promoted seven clerks from 
the weekly rate to the monthly rate and the complainant s grievance is that he 
should have been one of the persons so promoted ; but he was not promoted because 
he was taking active part in the union activities. He alleges that his non - promotion 
amounted to a punishment and also a change in conditions of service, and as this 
was done during the pendency of Reference No. 6 of 1952 and as no permission 
was obtained by the management, there has been a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and he has therefore filled the present complaint under 
Section 33A . 

5 . The management contend that the promotion to the monthly rate is a matter 
of internal management and the Tribunal should not interfere in the discretion 
of the management. They also say that by promoting a particular person to the 
monthly rate , it could not be said that the conditions of service of other persons 
were changed or that other persons were punished , and hence there was no breach 
of Section 33 . I need not go into these questions in this case ; becausc assuming 


275 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


(PART II - 8 & c . 3 


that the management have committed a breach of Section 33 , I think that the con 
tention of the management that the complainant was not entitled to promotion 
to the monthly rate in March 1953 must be accepted . 


6 . As I said above, it is an admitted fact that in March 1953 seven clerks were 
promoted from the weekly rate to the monthly rate and the complainant alleges 
that he should have been one of those persons. His grievance on this score rests 
on the ground that his seniority should be considered on the basis of his appoint 
iment in service in 1945 as an underground munshi, On the other hand , the 
management urge that when making a promotion they only take into account the 
service of the employee in the particular category . In this case, the complainant 
was working as a clerk from December 1948 and when considering his promotion 
As a clerk to the monthly rate , his service only from December 1948 should and 
would be taken into account. It is an admitted fact that if the complainant s 
service only as a clerk is taken into account, he could not have claimed promotion 
to the monthly rate in March 1953 . It is however urged that his service as a 
munshi ought to be taken into consideration in considering his seniority. 


7 . I do not think that the management are wrong in holding that they should 
take into account the service only as a clerk in considering the question of pro 
motion . A person may have worked in different capacities but that would not 
necessarily make him fit for a particular job or for promotion in that job . The 
work as an underground munshi is of a different type from the work as a clerk . 
I was told that at present the management have framed a rule that only a matri 
culate can be appointed to the post of a clerk ; that is, a non -matriculate would 
not be eligible for appointment as a clerk , though he may be eligible for appoint 
ment as an underground munshi. This would mean that a clerk requires better 
qualifications than those of an underground munshi. In considering the question 
of promotion , the management would therefore be justified in considering the 
length of service only as a clerk . As I said above, if the complainant s service 
only as a clerk is taken into account, he could not claim promotion to the monthly 
rate and hence his grievance is not proper . 


8 . I may point out that Aye out of the seven clerks who were promoted to the 
monthly rate , were working as clerks from 1944 and 1945. So far as these Ave 
persons are concerned , there can be no doubt that they were senior to the com 
plainant even if the complainant s service as a munshi is taken into account. He 
could therefore have no grievance against the promotion of these five persons , who 
have been working as clerks before the complainant joined service even as a 
Munshi, 


9 . Regarding the other two, they were appointed as clerks in 1950 and 1952 res 
pectively . It however appears that these two persons were originally working as 
Mining Sirdars from 1939. They are A . R . Bose and S . M , Huda. Both of them 
were drawing a salary of Rs. 33 per month as Mining Sirdars and they were 
appointed as clerks in 1952 and 1949 respectively , aş can be seen from their service 
cards. It appears that A . R . Bose was found on examination in April 1950 to be 
suffering from pneumoconosis and the chest specialist recommended him for 
surface work . Similarly $ . M . Huda liad failed to qualify medically fit for con 
tinuing in the post of Mining Sirdar . These facts appear from the papers pro 
duced by the management in this case. It was in these , circumstances that these 
two persons were appointed as clerks. As I said above, they were already monthly 
rated employees and they were taken up as clerks also on a monthly rate . It 
could not therefore be said that it was a case of favouritism or the like. Actually 
the appointments of these two persons as clerks on monthly rate were made long 
ego and neither the complainant nor any one else made any complaint about it . 
I may also mention that even if these two persons (namely A . R . Bose and Huda ) 
were not entitled to confirmation in the monthly rate , the complainant could not 
have got a monthly rate , because admittedly there are seven or eight clerks senior 
to him , who are still drawing a weekly rate . Till they are considered for the 
monthly rate , the complainant s case could not be considered , 


10. It was argued on behalf of the complainant that the management was always 
considering the service of a munshi also for promoting the clerks to the monthly 
rate . In this connection , they refer to the case of one Bijoy Mukherjee working 
in pits 6 and 7 and that of one B . N . Pal working in the Jamadoba Colliery. They 
have not been able to point out a single instance from this (Digwadih ) colliery , 
It was said that in pit Nos . 6 and 7 Bijoy Mukherjee was appointed as a clerk on 
19th June 1950 and was promoted to the monthly rate from Ist January 1953 ; and 
though there were 5 other clerks who had been appointed as clerks before him , 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30, 1964 277 
-- = = 

= = = 
they were not promoted to the monthly rate . In this connection , it appears that 
Bijoy Mukherjee received some injuries in 1949 which incapacitated him from 
working underground . It was because of this that he was given compensation 
and later appointed as a clerk . An exception appears to have been made in his 
case , on compassionate grounds. 


11 . Regarding Jamadoba Colliery , it was said that B . N . Pal was appointed as 
a clerk on 5th February 1949 while S . P . Banerjee was appointed as a clerk on 
4th January 1950 and still Banerjee was appointed to the monthly rate on 1st May 
1952 while Pal was appointed to the monthly rate on Ist July 1952. It was argued 
that this must be because Banerjee had been working as a munshi from 1947 and 
his service as such must have been taken into account. In this connection , it 
appears that Banerjee applied for promotion to the monthly rate in March 1952 
and was promoted to that from Ist May 1952 . Thereafter B . N . Pal gave an 
application on 20th May 1952 for promotion to the monthly rate and he was pro 
moted to that rate from 1st July 1952. There is nothing on record to show why 
the case of Pal was not taken into account, when Banerjee s application was con 
sidered . 


12 . Excepting these cases , the complainant has not pointed out any cases where 
a person s promotion was made on the basis of his service both as a clerk and a 
munshi. On the other hand , the management have produced other cases from this 
very Digwadih colliery where the service of munghị was not taken into account 
when promoting the clerks to the monthly rate scales . For instance, one A . Wahid 
was appointed as a munshi on 16th March 1944 and promoted to the post of a clerk 
on 13th September 1945 . Onc S . K . Ojha was appointed as a clerk from 20th 
April 1944 . One Mohibulla Khan was appointed as a clerk on 11th December 
1944 . If in making promotions service as a munshi was also to be taken into 
account, Wahid should have been promoted to the monthly rate before both Ojha 
and Mohibulla Khan . It however appears that Ojha was promoted to the monthly 
rate from 24th September 1950 while Mohibulla Khan was promoted to the monthly 
rate from 25th September 1950 and Wahid was promoted to the monthly rate from 
1st January 1951. This shows that in making promotions to the monthly rate , 
the service only as clerks is taken into account and the service as munshis is not 
considered for that purpose . 


13 . Further even if in a stray case or two, the management may have promoted 
a person to the monthly rate before another person who was entitled to it, it would 
be that person who would have a grievance . It could not be said to establish that 
the rule or the practice of the management was that service as munshi has also 
been considered in making promotions. 


14 . I may repeat that I agree with the rule or practice of the management that 
in inaking promotions, the service only as clerks should be taken into account and 
the service as munshis could not be considered when making these promotions, 
That being so , it could not be said that the complainant was entitled to promotions 
to monthly rate in March 1953 when other persons were so promoted . I may add 
that Mr. Narsingh on behalf of the management assured me that when future 
vacancies occur, the complainant will be duly considered for promotion to the 
monthly rate , if he is senior to other clerks, on the basis of their services as clerks. 
I may also mention that though the complaint contains an allegation that the com 
plainant was harassed because he was an active member of the Labour Union , there 
is not an iota of evidence to support this allegation . In their written statement, 
the management had clearly stated that they were not aware if the complainant 
was a member, far less an active member , of the Labour Union . In spite of this , 
the complainant has produced no evidence . This allegation cannot therefore be 
believed . 


13. The result is that in my opinion , the complainant has not been punished 
rior has his condtion of service been changed . He was not entitled to promotion 
to the monthly rate when others were so promoted . His complaint therefore fails 
and must be dismissed . I pass my award accordingly . 
The 16th January 1954. 

(Sd .) L . P . DAVE, Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 


[ No. LR2 ( 365 ) . ] 
P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy . 


278 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JANUARY 30 , 1954 


[ PART II — S & C. 3 : 


New Delhi, the 25th January 1954 


S . R . O . 369,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 read with sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 15 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 (IV of 1936 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer or officers appointed from time 
to time by the Governments of Travancore - Cochin and Madhya Bharat under sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 15 of the said Act , as the authority or authorities to hear 
and decide, within any area in their respective States all claims arising out of 
deductions from the wages, or delay in payment of the wages, of persons employed 
or paid within such area , to be the authority or authorities to hear and decide 
such claims in respect of persons employed or paid within that area by a railway 
administration or, either directly or through a sub - contractor , by a person fulfilling 
a contract with a railway administration . 


[No. Fac .61 ( 60 ) .) 
S . NEELAKANTAM , Dy . Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1954 


