REGISTERED NO. FATHTRA 


. 


. 


. 


1 


: 


. 


The Gazette 


of Endia 


7 . 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 15 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 11 , 1953 


i 


PL 


l -. . W 


. 


- 


. . 


- 


- 


D 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


NOTICE 
Tho andorovoutiopod Gavotte of India Estraordinary pero publicbod upto the 14th 
April 1968 :-- 


Indo 
No. 


No. and dato 


Intuod by 


Subjaot 


72 


8 . R . O . 828 , dated the 
26th March 1983. 


Election Com - | Election Petition No. 80 of 1982 , 
mission , India . 


8 . R . O . 820 , dated the 
28th March 1968 . 


Ditto . 


Elootion Petition No. 1613 of 1982. 


A R . O . 827 , datod the 
28th March 1963, 


Ditto . 


Eleotion 0 . 80 No . 4 of 1982. 


73 


8 . R . 0 . 028 , dated the 
81st Marob 1953 . 


Ditto . 


Eleotion Potition No. 92 of 1962, 


Copion of the Gazottan Extraordinary mentioned above will be wopplied on indont to the 
Manager of Publioations , Civil Lidon, Delhi, Indent should be submitted so us to reach to 
Megagor within ton days of the date of Anue of thesey Gazette . 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd April 1963 
S . R . O . 636 . It is hereby notifled for general information that the disqualifica 
tions under clause (c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951 ( XLIII of 1951) , incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as rotified under notification No. BR - P /52 (31), dated the 19th 
May , 1952 , have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act respec 
Hvely : 
Shri Pitamber Singh , Communist Party Office, P .O . Bettiah , District 
Champarar 

"No, BR -P / 52 (71) / 1962. ] 
( 436 ) . 


438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1953 . .. . 


[ PART 11 - Sec . 3 


S . R . O . 636 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 22 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1950 (XLIII of 1950 ) , the Election Com 
mission , in consultation with the Central Government, hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Commission s notification No . 102 / 22 / 51- Elec . II , dated the 20th 
August , 1051, namely : 

" AMENDMENT 


In the Table appended to the said notification for the entries in columns 1 and 
2 relating to the Mandi-Mahasu and Chamba - Sirmur constituencies the following 
entries shall respectively substituted : - - 


• Mandi-Mahasu 


Deputy Commissioner , 

Mandi District 


• Chamba- Sirmur 


Deputy Commissioner, 

Sirmur District ." 


[ No. 157 / 22 / 53 / 3940 .] 
P , N , SHINGHAL , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 6th April 1953 


S . R . O . 637.- It is hereby notified for general information that the Government of 
all States to which the Police Act , 1888 ( III of 1888) extends have consented under 
section 4 of that Act to the exercise within their respective territories by the police 
force of every other State of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said Act. 

2 , The Notification of the Government of India in the late Home Department 
No . F . 106 / 5 / 37 - Police , dated the 16th November , 1937 is hereby superseded , 

[No. 17 / 1 / 52- Police (I). ] 
U . K , GHOSHAL , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1953 
S . R . O . 638 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 of the Chander 
nagore (Administration ) Regulation , 1952 (Regulation No . 1 of 1952), the Central 
Government hereby extends to Chandernagore Parts I and II and sections 15 to 
65 of Part III ct the Bengal Municipal Act , 1932 ( Bengal Act XV of 1932) as at 
present in force in West Bengal, with the following modifications, namely : 


Modifications 
1, Save as otherwise expressly provided in this notifcailon , in Parts I and II 
and sections 15 to 65 of Part III for the words " State Government" wherever they 
occur, the words " Central Government" shall be substituted . 
2 . In section 1 , 
(a ) for sub -sections (2 ) and (3 ) the following sub -section , shall be substi 

tuted , namely : 
" ( 2 ) It extends to the whole of Chandernagore ; 

(3 ) It shall come into force immediately " . 

(b ) Sub -sections (4 ) and (5) shall be cmitted . 
3 . Section 2 shall be omitted . 
4 . In section 3 

( a ) clause ( 20) shall be omitted ;. 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1903 


437 


(b ) for clause (40 ) the following clause shall be substituted namely : 
" ( 40 ) Premises includes lands, buildings , vehicles , tents, vans, structures 

of any kind , streams, drains, ditches or places open , covered , or 
enclosed , whether built on or not, and whether public or private 
and whether natural or artificial and whether maintained or not 
under statutory authority and any vessel lying in any river or other 

water ." 
(c ) clause (45) shall be omitted. 
5. Sections 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 shall be omitted . 
6 . For section 8 , the following section shall be substituted , namely : 
" 8 , Constitution of a municipality for Chandernagore or any part thereof, 

and abolition or alteration of limits of such municipality . -- - The Cen 

tral Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette . 
(a ) constitute Chandernagore or any specifed part thercof a municipality 

under this Act; or 
( b ) withdraw the whole area comprised in the municipality from the 

operation of this Act, or 
(c ) Include within the municipality any local area or any part thereof con 

tiguous to the same or excluded therefrom ; or 
(d ) divide the municipality into two or more municipalities, as the case 

may be ; or 
(e ) define the limits of any such municipality ; or 
(f) revise the boundaries of two contiguous municipalities ; or 
( g ) alter the number of Commissioners of any such municipality in con 

sideration inter alia of the increase or decrease in the population , 
Income, number of voters and commercial and general importance 

of the place ." 
7. In section 11 for the words " any municipality " the words " the municipality " 
whall be substituted . 

8 . In section 14 for the words " The Commissioners of every municipality already 
existing, and of every municipality newly constituted under this Act " the words 
" The Commissioners of every municipality newly constituted under this Act" shall 
be substituted . 
9. In section 21, the following sub -section shall be added , namely : - 
" (6 ) The functions conferred on the Committee by sub - section ( 1 ) and on 

the Commissioners by sub - section ( 5 ) shall, for the purposes of the 
first election under this Act , be exercisable by the Administrator of 

Chandernagore or any other officer authorised by lim in this behalf.” 
20 . For section 23 , the following section shall be substituted , namely : - - 
423. Qualifications of Commissioners and voters . - - ( 1) No person shall be 

qualified to be elected a Commissioner of a municipality who is not 

entitled to vote at an election of Commissioners of such municipality . 
( 2 ) A person shall not be entitled to vote at an election of Commissioners in 

any municipality unless such person , 
(1) has attained the age of twentyone years ; and 
( 1) is a citizen of India , and 
( 1 ) has for a period of not less than twelve months immediately preced 

ing such election , been resident within the limits of the municipality , 
Or has for the said period immediately preceding such election been 
in occupation of a holding and carrying on any trade or profession 

within the said limits." 
( 3 ) No person shall be entitled to vote at an election of Commissioners in 

any municipality who has been adjudged by a competent court to be 

of unsound mind . 
11 In section 25 , in sub - section ( 1 ) for the words " with the Chairman " the 
words . " In case of the first election under this Act with the Administrator of 
Chandernagore and in other cases with the Chairman " shall be substituted . 
· 12. In section 38 , in clause (b ), for the words and figures " the Indian Election 
offences and Inquines Act, 1920 " the words, figures, letters and brackets " sections 
171B and 171C or the Indian Penal Code ( Act V of 1860 ) " shall be substituted . 


438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


13 . In section 44 , clause ( c ) shall be omitted . 

14 . In section 52 , the words, brackets and figures " or to the holder of any of 
the other offices referred to in sub - section ( 1 ) of section 73" shai bę omitted . 
15 . In section 57 — 
( a ) in sub - section ( 1 ), for the words and figures the Indian Oaths Act , 

1873 " (he words " any other law for the time beinu ir force shall be 

substituted ; 
(b ) In sub -section ( 3 ) for the words and figures " the Indian Oaths Act. 

1873" the words " any other law for the time being in force " shall be 

substituted ; 
( c ) in sub - section (6 ), the words, brackets and figures " cr that/ such person 

is an alien exempted from disabilities imposed by the Benga ! (Allens) 
Disqualifications Act, 1918 , in respect of election or appointment as 
a Commissioner " shall be omitted , 

[No, D . 1537 -Eur.I / 53. ) 
S. GUPTA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF STATES 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1953 
S . R . O . 639 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part C 
States ( Laws) Act, 1950 , the Central Government hereby extends to the State of 
Tripura the Bengal Shops and Establishments Act , 1940 ( Bengal Act XVI of 1940 ) 
(hereafter in this notification referred to as the Act) as at present in force in the 
State of West Bengal with the following modifications, namely : 

Modifications 
1 . Save as otherwise expressly provided in this notification , for the words " State 
Government" wherever they occur in the Act, the words " Chief Commissioner of 
Tripura " , shall be substituted . 

2 . In section 1 
(a ) for sub -section (2 ) , the following sub - section shall be substituted , namely : 

" (? ) It extends to the whole of Tripura;" 
(b ) for sub -section ( 3 ) , the following sub -section shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date or dates as the Chief Commissioner 

of Tripura may by notification in the Tripura Gazette appoint and 

different dates may be appointed for different areas of Tripura , " 
(c ) sub - section ( 4 ) shall be omitted . 

3 . In sub - section ( 1) of section 2 , for clause (8 ), the following clause shall be 
substituted , namely : 

" (8 ) notification means a notification published in the Tripura Gazette ." 
4 . In clause (a ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 5, for the words State Government . 
the words " Tripura Government shall be substituted . 

5 . In section 8 – 

( a ) in sub - section ( 1) , for the words " one and a half days" wherever they 
occur, the words " one day " shall be substituted ; 

(b ) in sub - section ( 3 ) , the words " and the half day" and " and half day 
wherever they occur shall be omitted , 

8 . In section 7 

( a ) in sub -section ( 1 ) for the words " eight o clock " , the words " nine o clock " 
shall be substituted ; 

(b ) in sub- section ( 2 ) , for the words "half past eight " , the words " half past 
nine" shall be substituted . 

7 . In sub - section ( 1 ) of section 8 , for the words " holidays at least one and a halt 
days" , the words " holiday at least one day " shall be substituted . 

8 . In sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 , for the words " holidays at least one and a 
halt days " , the words " holiday at least one day" shall be substituted . 


PART II- - Sec. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1983 


439 


Annexure 
The Bengal Shops and Establishments Act, 1940 (Bengal Act XVI of 1940 ) As 
modified by this notification . 

BENGAL ACT XVI OF 1940 
THE BENGAL SHOPS AND ESTABLISHMENTS ACT, 1940 
An Act to regulate the holidays, payment of wages and leave of persons employed 

in shops, commercial establishments and establishments for public entertain 
ment or amusement and the hours of work of persons employed in shops and 

establishments for public entertainment or amusement. 
WHEREAS it is expedient to regulate the holidays , payment of wages and leave of 
persons employed in shops, commercial establishments and establishments for 
public entertainment or amusement and the hours of work of persons employed 
in shops and establishments for public entertainment or amusement; 

It Is hereby enacted as follows: 

1. Short title , extent and commencement. - ( 1 ) This Act may be called the 
Bengal Shops and Establishments Act, 1940 , 

( 2 ) It extends to the whole of Tripura , 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Chiet Commissioner of Tripura 
may by notifcation in the Tripura Gazette , appoint and different datos may be 
appointed for different areas of Tripura , 

2 . Definitions. — In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject 
or context 

( 1 ) " closed " means not open for the service of any customer ; 
( 2 ) " commercial establishment" means an establishment in which there is 

conducted the business of advertising , commission , forwarding OT 
commercial agency , a clerical department of a factory or of any 
industrial or commercial undertaking , an insurance company , joint 
stock company , bank , broker s office , or exchange , or such other estab 
lishment or class thereof as the Chief Commissioner may , by notifica 
tion , declare to be a commercial establishment for the purposes of this 
Act, but does not include a shop or an establishment for public 

entertainment or amusement; 
( 3 ) " day" means a period of twenty -four hours beginning at midnight; 
( 4 ) " employer " means a person owning or having charge of the business of 

a commercial establishment or establishment for public entertainment 
or amusement, and includes an agent or manager of , and any other 
person acting on behalf of, such person in the general management 

or control of such establishment; 
( 5 ) " establishment for public entertainment or amusement" means a 

restaurant, eating -house , cafe , cinema, theatre and such other estab 
lishment or class thereof as the Chief Commissioner may, by notifica 
tion , declare to be, for the purposes of this Act , an establishment for 
publlc entertainment or amusement, but does not include a shop or a : 

commercial establishment; 
(6 ) " factory " means a factory as defined in , or declared to be a factory 

under , the Factories Act, 1934 (XXV of 1934 ) ; 
( 7 ) " half day " means a period of six consecutive hours between the hours 

of half past cight o clock ante meridiem and half past eight o clock 

post meridiem , 
(8 ) " notification " means a notification published in the Tripura Gazette ; 
(9 ) " person employed " means 
(i ) in “he case of a shop, a person wholly or principally employed in the 

shop in connection with the business of the shop , 
( ii ) in the case of a commercial establishment, a person wholly or 

principally employed in connection with the business of the estaba 
Jishment or in the case of a factory, a member of the clerical stadt 

employed in such factory, 
(Ill) in the case of an establishment for public entertainment or amuse 

ment, a person wholly of principally employed , in the preparation 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


(PART II - SIC. 


or serving of food or drink , or in attendance upon customers , or in 
cleaning any part of the establishment or the utensils used therein , 
or as attendant, cashier , clerk , doorkeeper, operator, or usher , or 

in some other similar capacity , 
but does not include a shop -keeper or employer or the husband , wife, child , 

father , mother, brother or sister of a shop -keeper or employer who 

lives with , and is dependent on , such shop -keeper or employer ; 
(10 ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under this Act; 
( 11 ) " rules" means rules made under this Act; 
( 12 ) " shop " means any premises used wholly or in part for the wholesale 

or retail sale of commodities or articles, either for cash or on credit, 
and such other premises as the Chief Commissioner may, by notifica 
tion , declare to be a shop for the purposes of this Act , but does not 
include a commercial establishment or an establishment for public 

entertainment or amusement; 
( 13 ) " shop -keeper " means a person owning or having charge of the business 

of a shop , and includes an agent or manager of, and any other person 
acting on behalf of, such person in the general management or control 

of a shop ; and 
( 14 ) " week ” means a period of seven days beginning at midnight on 

Saturday. 
3 . References to tme of day . - References to the time of day in this Act shall 
be deemed to be references to Indian standard time, which is five and a half 
hours ahead of Greenwich mean time. 

4 . Powers of the Chief Commissioner . - ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may, tor 
the purposes of all or any of the provisions of this Act, by notification declare 
( a ) to be a shop , any premises which are not premises of a commercial 

establishment or of an establishment for public entertainment or 

amusement, 
( b ) to be a commercial establishment, any establishment which is not a shop 

or an establishment for public entertainment or amusement, and 
( c ) to be an establishment for public entertainment or amusement, Any 

establishment which is not a shop or a commercial establishment. 
( 2 ) The provisions of this Act specified in a notiAcation under sub - section ( 1 ) 
shall apply to any premises or establishment which , under the provisions of that 
sub - section , has been declared to be a shop or a commercial establishment or an 
ostablishment for public entertainment or amusement, as the case may be. 

( 3 ) The Chief Commissioner may, by notiAcation on account of such holiday 
or other occasion as may be prescribed , suspend the operation of all or any of the 
provisions of this Act in respect of any shop or establishment or class of shop or 
establishment for such period and subject to such conditions as it thinks At. 

5. Act not applicable to certain establishments , shops and persons. - ( 1) Nothing 
in this Act shall apply to 
( a ) offices of or under the Central or Tripura Government, the Reserve 

Bank of India , any Federal Railway or any local authority ; 
( b ) any railway service, water transport service , tramway or motor service , 

postal, telegraph or telephone service, any system of public conser 
vancy or sanitation , any industry , business or undertaking which 
supplies power , light or water to the public and such other public 
utility companies or Associations or classes thereof as the Chief Com 

missioner may, by notification , exempt from the operation of this Act; 
( c ) clubs, residential hotels and boarding houses ; 
( d ) stalls and refreshment rooms at railway stations, docks, wharves and 

airports ; 
(e ) establishments for the treatment or care of the sick , Infrm , destitute 

or mentally unft; 
( 1 ) such shops or classes of shops, dealing mainly in vegetables, meat, fish , 

dairy produce , bread , pastries. sweetmeats, flowers or other perishable 
commodities, as the Chief Commissioner may, by notification , exempt 
from the operation of this Act so far as the sale of these articles in 
concerned ; 


PART II - 8cc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1963 


441 


(8 ) shops dealſng mainly in medicines, surgical appliances, bandages or other 

medical requisites, so far as the sale of these articles is concerned ; 
(h ) Bhops dealing in articles required for funerals , burials or cremations 

so far as the sale of these articles is concerned ; 
(1 ) shops dealing in tobacco , cigars , cheroots, cigarettes, biris , pan , liquld 

refreshments sold retail for consumption on the premises, ice , newg 

papers or periodicals , so far as the sale of these articles is concerned ; 
(1 ) shops dealing in supplies, stores or other articles necessary for ships, 

so far as the sale of these articles for ships is concerned ; 
( k ) shops or stalls in any public exhibition or show , so far as such shops 

or stalls deal in retall trade which is solely subsidiary or ancillary to 

the main purposes of such exhibition or show ; 
( 1) shops or stalls in any public fair or bazar held for a charitable purpose ; 
(m ) barbers and hairdressers shops; 
( n ) shops dealing in petroleum products or spare parts for motor vehicles ; 
(0 ) excise shops; 
(p ) any person employed in a managerial or confidential capacity . or as a 

traveller , canvasser , messenger, watchman or catetaker , or exclusively 
in connection with the collection , despatch , delivery , and conveyance 

or customs formalities of goods; 
a ) such seasonal commercial establishments engaged in the purchase of 

raw jute or cotton or in cotton ginning or cotton or jute pressing , and 
the clerical departments of such seasonal factories, as the Chief Com 

missioner may , by notification , exempt from the operation of this Act; 
(r ) such other establishments, shops or persons or classes of establishments , 

shops or persons, as the Chief Commissioner may , by notification , 
exempt from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this 

Act. 
(2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section ( 1 ), the Chief Commis 
stoner may, by notification , declare that any shop , establishment or person specified 
In that sub -section shall not be exempt from the operation of such provisions of 
this Act as may be specified in the notification and that the provisions of this Act 
specified in such notification shall apply to such shop , establishment or person , 

6 . Holldays in shops. - ( 1 ) Every shop shall be entirely closed on at least one 
day in each week , and every person employed in a shop shall be allowed as holidays 
at least one day in each week : 

Provided that, when there are conducted in a shop two or more trades or 
businesses , any of which is of such a character that, if it was the sole trade or 
business therein conducted , the provisions of this sub - section would not apply to 
that shop , such shop shall, so far as the conduct of that trade or business ls 
concerned , be exempt from the operation of this sub - section . 

( 2 ) No deduction on account of any holiday allowed under sub - section ( 1 ) shall 
be made from the wages of any person employed in a shop . 

( 3 ) The day on which a shop shall be entirely closed in each week shall be such 
day as may be specified by the shop -keeper in a notice , which shall be displayed 
In a conspicuous place in the shop : 

Provided that no shop -keeper shali , more often than once in every three months , 
alter the day so specified . 

7 . Hours of work in shops , - ( 1 ) No shop shall remain open after the hour of 
nine o clock post meridiem ; but any customer who was being , or was waiting In 
the shop to be, served at such hour may be served during the period of thirty 
minutes immediately following such hour : 

Provided that, when there are conducted in a shop two or more trades or 
businesses, any of which is of such a character that, if it was the sole trade or 
business therein conducted , the provisions of this sub - section would not apply to 
that shop , such shop shall, so far as the conduct of that trade or business is 
concerned , be exempt from the operation of this sub - section . 

( 2 ) No person employed in a shop be required or permitted to work in such 
shop for more than ten hours in any one day and for more than Afty - six hours in 
any one week and after the hour of half past nine o clock post meridiem : 

Provided that in any day and in any week in which there occurs stock - taking, 
making -up accounts, settlement or such other business operation as may be pres 
cribed , and during such other periods as may be prescribed , a person employed in a 


142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


PART 11SEC . 


shop may be required or permitted to work over -time in such shop for more than 
ten hours in such day and for more than Afty -six hours in such week , but so that 
the total number of hours so worked over- time py such persons does not exceed one 
hundred and twenty in any one year . 

( 3 ) No person employed in a shop shall be required or permitted to work in 
such shop 
( a ) for more than seven hours in any one day, unless he has been allowed 

an interval for rest of at least one hour during that day, and 
(b ) for more than five hours in any one day, unless he has been allowed an 

interval for rest of at least half an hour during that day . 
( 4 ) The periods of work and intervals for rest of each person employed in a 
shop shall be arranged by the shop -keeper so that together they do not extend 
over more than twelve hours in any one day : 

Provided that . If on any day a shop is entirely closed for a continuous period 
of not less than three hours prior to the hour specified in sub -section ( 1 ), such 
periods of work and intervals for rest may together extend over not more than 
fourteen hours in that day . 

8 . Holidays in commercial establishments , - ( 1 ) Every person employed in a 
commercial establishment shall be allowed as holiday at least one day in each 
week : 

Provided that, when there are conducted in a commercial establishment two or 
more trades or businesses, any of which is of such a character that, if it was the 
sole trade or business therein conducted , the provisions of this sub -section would 
not apply to that commercial establishment, such commercial establishment shall , 
so far as the conduct of that trade or business is concerned , be exempt from the 
operation of this sub -section , 

( 2 ) No deduction on account of any holiday allowed under sub -section ( 1 ) shall 
be made from the wages of any person employed in a commercial establishment 

9 . Holidays in establishments for public entertainment or amusement. - ( 1 ) Every 
person employed in an establishment for public entertainment or amusement shall 
be allowed as holiday at least one day in each week : 

Provided that, when there are conducted in an establishment for public enter 
tainment or amusement two or more trades or businesses, any of which is of such 
a character that, if it was the sole trade or business therein conducted , the provisions 
of this sub - section would not apply to that establishment, such establishment shall, 
so far as conduct of that trade or business is concerned , be exempt from the 
operation of this sub - section , 

( 2 ) No deduction on account of any hollday allowed under sub - section ( 1) shall 
be made from the wages of any person employed in an establishment for public 
entertainment or amusement. 

10 . Hours of work in establishments for public entertainment or amusement. 
( 1 ) No person employed in an establishment for public entertainment or amuse 
ment shall be required or permitted to work in such establishment for more than 
ten hours in any one day: 
• Provided that, during such periods as may be prescribed , a person employed 
in an establishment for public entertainment or amusement may be required or 
permitted to work over -time in such establishment for more than ten hours in any 
one day , but so that the total number of hours so worked over - time by such person 
does not exceed one hundred and twenty in any one year. 

( 2 ) No person employed in an establishment for public entertainment or amuse 
ment shall be required or permitted to work in such establishment 
( a ) for more than eight hours in any one day unless he has been allowed an 

interval for rest of at least one hour during that day , and 
( b ) for more than six hours in any one day unless he has been allowed an 

interval for rest of at least half an hour during that day . 
( 3 ) The periods of work and intervals for rest of each person employed in an 
establishment for public entertainment or amusement shall be arranged by the 
employer of such person so that together they do not extend over more than four 
teen hours in any one day . 

11. Payment of wages, - -All wages payable to any person employed in a shop , 
commercial establishment or establishment for public entertainment or amusement 
shall be payable not later than the tenth day of the month Immediately succeeding 
that in respect of which such wage and payable. 


PART II - SEÇ. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1993 


12 . Leave .- - A person employed in a shop , commercial establishment or establish 
ment for public entertainment or amusement shall be entitled 
( a ) after every twelve months continuous employment, to privilege leave OD 

full pay for a total period not exceeding fourteen days, and 
( b ) in every year, to casual leave on half pay for a total period not exceed 

ing ten days: 
Provided that , 
( 1) privilege leave admissible under clause ( a ) may be accumulated upto 

a maximum of not more than twenty-eight days, and 
(li) casual leave admissible under clause (b ) shall not be accumulated . 
13 . Wages for over-time work . - -When any person employed in any shop or 
establishment for public entertainment or amusement is required or permitted to 
work over - time in such shop ur establishment in excess of the maximum limit of 
hours of work specified respectively in sub - section ( 2 ) of section 7 and sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 , the wages payable to such person in respect of such over - time 
work shall be calculated at the rate of one and one - quarter times the ordinary rate 
of wages payable to him , and such ordinary rate of wages shall be calculated in the 
manner prescribed . 

14 . Maintenance of records , reglsters and notices . - ( 1 ) Every shop -keeper and 
employer of an establishment for public entertainment or amusement shall for the 
purposes of this Act maintain such records and registers , and display such notices , 
as may be prescribed . 

( 2 ) Every employer of a commercial estabUshment shall for the purposes of this 
Act maintain sucn records and registers as may be prescribed . 

15 . Inspection .--- ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may by notification , appoint 
such persons or such class of persons as it thinks fit to be Inspectors for the pur 
poses of this Act within such local limits as it may asşign to them respectively . 

( 2 ) All Inspectors appointed under sub -section ( 1 ) shall be deemed to be 
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (XLV of 
1860 ) . 


16 . Powers of Inspectors . Subject to the rules , an Inspector appointed under 
section 15 may, for the purposes of this Act and within the local limits for which 
he is appointed , at all reasonable times enter into any place which is , or which he 
baş reason to believe is , a shop or a commercial establishment or an establishment 
for public entertainment or amusement with such assistants , if any , being servants 
of the Government and make such examination of that place and of any prescribed 
record , register or notice maintained therein . as may be prescribed , and may re 
quire such explanation of any prescribed record , register or notice as he may con 
sider necessary for the purposes of this Act : 

Provided that no person shall be required under this section to answer any 
question or give any evidence tending to criminate himself , 

17. Penalties . ( 1 ) Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of section 6 , 7 , 
8 , 9 or 10 shall, on conviction . be punishable with Anę which , for a first offence , may 
extend to two hundred and Afty rupees and , for a second or any subsequent offence 
may extend to five hundred rupees . 

( 2 ) Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of sections 11, 12 , 13 or 14 and 
whoever, having custody of any prescribed record , register or notice , refuses or 
without sufficient cause , falls to produce it on being so required by an Inspector 
under the provisions of section 16 , shall, on conviction , be punishable with Ane 
which may extend to Afty rupees . 

18. Procedure. - ( 1 ) No Court inferior to a Presidency Magistrate or @ Magist 
rate of the First Class shall try an offence punishable under this Act . 

( 2 ) No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act en 
cept upon complaint made by an Inspector appointed under section 15 . 

19 . Indemnity. — No sult, prosecution or legal proceeding. whatever shall lle 
againgt any person in respect of anything in cood faith done or intended to be dono 
under this Act or the rules . 


20 . Saving of certain rights and privilegos.- -Nothing in this Act shall affect any 
richt or privilege to which any person employed in any shop , commercial establish 
ment or establishment for public entertainment or amusement lo entitled at the 


444 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


(PART IISec. 3 


date of the commencement of this Act under any other law for the time being in 
torce or under any contract, custom or usage which is in force on that date , such 
right or privilege is more favourable to him than any right or privllege conferred 
upon him by this Act. 

21, Power to make rules.- - ( 1 ) The Chief Commissioner may , after previous 
publication , make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2 ) In particular, and without prejudice to the generallty of the foregoing power 
much rules may provide for 
( a ) the holidays and other occasions on account of which a notification may 

be issued under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 ; 
( b ) the business operations in connection with which and the periods during 

which , persons employed in shops and establishments for public enter 
tainment and amusement may work over - time or in excess of the limit 
provided respectively in sub -section ( 2 ) of section 7, and sub - section 

( 1 ) of section 10 ; 
( c ) the manner of calculating ordinary rates of wages for the purposes of 

section 13 ; 
( d ) the records and registers to be maintained , and the notices to be dis 

played , by a shop -keeper and an employer under section 14 ; 
(e ) the manner of appointment and qualifications of Inspectors appointed 

under section 15 ; 
(f) the manner in which Inspectors appointed under section 15 shall exer 

cise the powers conferred by section 16 . 
( 3 ) In making any rule under this section the Chief Commissioner may direct 
that any person committing a breach thereof shall , on conviction , be punishablo 
with Ane, which may extend to Afty rupees , and where the breach is a continuing 
one, with a furthuer fine which may extend to ten rupees for every day, after the 
Ürst, during which the breach continues. 

[No. 42-J .) 
8 . K . AYANGAR , Asstt. Socy . 


(d) the layed, by et appoin 


ORDER 

New Delht, the 2nd April 1903 
BRO , 640 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by article 239 of the Constitu 
Hon and sub - clause (a ) of section 28 ( 3 ) of the Government of Part C States Act. 
1951 (XLIX of 1951 ), and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf , the 
President is pleased to make the following Order , namely 

1. ( 1 ) This Order may be called the Lieutenant Governors (Himachal Pradesh 
and Vindhya Pradesh ) (Salaries and Allowances) (Amendment) Order , 1953 . 

( 2) It shall come into force at once. 

2 . For paragraph 5 of the Lieutenant Governors (Himachal Pradesh and Vindhya 
Pradesh ) (Salaries and Allowances ) Order, 1952 , the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 5 . Each Lieutenant Governor shall be entitled without payment of rent or 

hire to the use and maintenance of a Motor Car and a Jeep . 
NOTE , — The term " maintenance " includes the cost of a driver , expenditure 
on petrol, repairs and other incidental charges ." 

[No. 41-PA . ) 
V. VISWANATHAN , Joint Secy. 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 

Central Office 

Bombay, the 31st March 1953 
S . R . O . 641 . - - In pursuance of the Notifcation of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No. 12 ( 13 ) - FI / 47, dated the 25th March , 1947, thy Reserve 


PART II 


xc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1963 


446 


Bank hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the schedulo 
to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No. F . E . 

RA. 10 / 47-RB , dated the 
25th March , 1947, namely : 
In the sald Schedule 
( a ) after the entry " Bank of India Ltd ." the entry " Bank of Tokyo Ltd ." shall 

be inserted , 
(b ) after the entry " Imperial Bank of India " the entry " Indian Bank Ltd ." 

shall be inserted . 
(c ) after the entry " National Bank of India Ltd ." the entry " National Bank 

of Pakistan " shall be inserted . 
( d ) for the entry " Thomas Cook & Son Ltd ." the entry " Thomas Cook & Son 
(Continental & Overseas ) Ltd ," shall be substituted . 

INo. F .E . R . A .118 / 53-RB. ) 
B . RAMA RAU , Governor . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 8181 March 1933 
S .R . O . 642 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of section 3 of 
the Indian Coinage Act , 1906 (111 of 1906 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that on and with effect from the 1st day of April, 1953, the Indian Government 
Mint at 47 , Strand Road , Calcutta shall be abolished . 

[No. D .1419 -F . II / 53.) , 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1963 
S . R . O . 643 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 of the Indian 
Colnage Act, 1906 ( III of 1906 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that coins 
which were in circulation as legal tender in the State of Hyderabad on the com 
mencement of the Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951 ( III of 1951) shall continue until 
the 31st March , 1955 , to be legal tender in that State to the Ilke extent and subject 
to the same conditions as immediately before the commencement of the said Act. 

[ No . F .2( 24 )- F .I/ 52 (1).] 


S . R . O . 644 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2A of the Currency 
Ordinance , 1940 (Ordinance IV of 1940 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that currency notes of the denominational value of one rupee which at the com 
mencement of the Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951 (III of 1951) were in circulation , 
as legal tender in the State of Hyderabad shall continue until the 31st March 
1958 . to be legal tender in that State to the like extent and subject to the same 
conditions as immediately before the commencement of the said Act. 

[NO, F . 2 (24 ) - F . 1 /52( II ). ] 


SR . O . 645. In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of 
the Hyderabad Coinage and Paper Currency (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1953 
( X of 1953), the Central Government hereby directs that the currency notes of 
denominational values exceeding one rupee issued under the provisions of the 
Hyderabad Paper Currency Act No. II of 1327F and in circulation as legal tender 
to the State of Hyderabad on the 31st day of March , 1953 , shall continue until the 
31st March , 1955 , to be legal tender in the said State to she like extent and subfect 
to the same conditions as immediately before the 31st day of March , 1953. 

(No. F .2 (24 )- F .I / 52 ( III). ] 
N , C . SEN GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ). 

New Delht, the 2nd April 1953 
SRO. 646 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Foreign 
Thxchange Regulation Act, 1947 (VII of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 


446 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1953 


(PART II-- Sec. 3 


directs that the fcllowing amendments shall be made in the Foreign Exchange 
Regulation Rules, 1952, namely : 
In sub -rule ( 2 ) of Rule 5 of the said rules 
( a ) for the words " The Reserve Bank may require any exporter to product 

such evidence in support of the declaration as may be in his possession 
or power to satisfy It " , the words " The Reserve Bank , or subject to 
such directions, if any , as may be given by the Reserve Bank , the 
Collector of Customs or the postal authorities inay require any exporter 
to produce in support of the declaration such evidence as may be in 

his possession or power to satisfy them " shall be substituted . 
fb ) in clause (1) the word " and " shall be omitted . 
(c ) clause ( ii) shall be re -numbered as clause ( 111) and the following shall 

be inserted as clause (11), namely : 
" ( u ) that the invoice value stated in the declaration is the full export 
value of the goods; and" 

[No. F . 32 (1)- EFII / 53.) 
S . S . SHIRALKAR , Dy. Secy, 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

HEADQUARTERS ESTABLISHMENT 

New Delhi, the 2nd April 1953 
8 .R . O . 647. — The following notification by the Income tax Investigation Com 
mission is published for general information . 

" NOTIFICATION 
It is notifled for general information that the Income-tax authority mentioned 
in column ( 1 ) of the table attached to this notice has been authorised with effect 
from the date mentioned in column ( 2 ) thereof by the income- tax Investigation 
Commission , without prejudice to his regular duties to be authorised Official 
under section 6 of the Taxatlon on Income ( Investigation Commission ) Act , 1947, 
and that under the provisions of the said Act , any person ( including a person 
whose case is not under investigation ) who is required by the said authorised 
official in the course of the investigation : 

( 1 ) to produce accounts or documents; and / or 
(2 ) to give information in respect of such accounts or document; and / or 
( 3 ) to attend in person and answer questions on oath ; and / or 
( 4 ) to make or prepare statements on oath , giving informatiun in specified 

matters: 
shall be bound to compla- with his requirements notwithstanding anything in any 
law to the contrary. Failure to comply with the requirements of the 87 | authoris 
. cd ofcial may amount to an offence under Chapter X of the Indian Penal Code. 


Name and designation of the 

Authorised Official 


Date from which 

authorised 


Address of the Head 
quarters office of 
the Authorised 

Oficial 


19 - 3 - 1953 


Sri Ashtabhuja Prashad , In 

come- tax Officer , West 
Bengal, 


Avenue House . (2nd Floor ), 
I / C Chowringhco Square , 
Calcutle . 


New DELHI; 
The 24th March , 1933 . 


( Sd .) RAMA NAND JAIN , Secy . 
Income-tax Investigation Commission ." 


(No. 28.) 
N . D . MEHROTRA, Dy. Secy . 


PART 11 - Sec. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1969 


447 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 


INCOME - TAX 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1953 
S . R . O . 648 . - The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Income-tax Rules, 1922 , which the Central Board of Revenue proposes to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 50 of the Indian 
Income-tax Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922 ) , is published os required by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
the said section , for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 20th April 1953 . 


2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the said 
Board , 


Draft Amendments 
In the form of Notice prescribed by rule 20 of the said Rules, the following 
amendments shall be made, namely : 
( a ) in line 1 of paragraph 1 for the words " take notice " the words " This is 

to give you notice" and for the words " the sum " the words " a sum " 

shall be substituted . 
(b ) in jines 4 and 5 of paragraph 2 the words " you are hereby informed 

that" shall be deleted ; 
( c ) In line 1 of paragraph 3 for the words " You are required to pay the 

amount" , the words “ The amount is payable" shall be substituted ;. 
and in line 2 after the word " when " the words " if paid " Bhall be. 

Inserted . 
(d ) For paragraph 5, the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely 
* 5 . Unless the total amount due. Including the penalty is paid on or 
before 

19 

you will be liable 
to a further penalty ( and a warrant of distress may be issued for 
the recovery of the whole amount due with cost)" . 

(No. 28 .) 
New Delhi, the 10th April 1953 
8 . R . O . 649 . In pursuance of sub - section (4 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income- tax 
Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue directs that the following: 
further amendments shall be made in its Notification No . 32- Income- tax , dated the 
9th November 1946 , namely : 


In the Schedule appended to the said notification under the sub-head " IX 
HYDERABAD " , for the Ranges and Income- t - x Circles . the following Ranget 
Income-tax Circles and Wards shall be substituted namely : 
Vijayawada Range : 

1 . Vijayawada, 
2 . Special Circle , Vijayawada. 
3 . Warangal. 
4. Euru . 
6 . Machilipatnam . 

6. Special Survey Circle , Vijayawada . 
Rajahmundry Range : 

1 . Rajahmundry . 
2 . Vijayanagaram , 
9 . Visakhapatnan . 
4 . Kakinada . 


448 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1953 


[PART I[ - SEC . 


Hyderabad Range : 

1. All Wards of the City Circle , Hyderabad . 
2 . Salary Circle , Hyderabad. 
3 . Raichur . 
4 . Nizamabad . 
8 . Nanded . 
6 . Aurangabad . 
7 . Gulbarga. 
6 . Osmanabad 

8 . Special Survey Circle , Hyderabad. 
2 . Where an Income- tax Circle stands transferred by this Notification from one . 
Range to another Range appeals arising out of assessments made in that Income 
tax Circle and pending Immediately before the date of this notification before the 
Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income- tax Circle 
1s transferred shall on and from the date of this notification be transferred to and 
dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of the Range to whom the 
paid circle is transferred . 

[No. 25. ] 
K . B . DEB, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1953 
S . R . O . 650 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause (b ) of clause 2 
of the Iron and Steel (Scrap Control) Order , 1943, the Central Government is 
pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be made in the Notifications 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and Supply , No, I ( 1 ) 4 ( 78 ) - A , 
dated the 6th January , 1951, No, I ( 1 ) - 4 (78 ) - B , dated the 6th January , 1951 and 
No , I ( 1 ) - 4 ( 78 ) - C , dated the 6th January , 1951, as amended from time to time, 
namely S . 

In the Schedule annexed to each of the said NotiAcations for the entry 
" Rationing Oncer ( Iron and Steel), Government of Bombay, Bombay " , the entry 
" Controller of Iron and Steel and Cement, Government of Bombay , Bombay " shall 
be substituted. 
2 . This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April, 1953. 

[ No. SC (A )-4 ( 109).] 
S . R . O . 651. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause (b ) of clause ( 2 ) 
of the Iron and Steel (Scrap Control) Order , 1943, the Centra : Government is 
pleased to authorise the Controller of Iron and Steel and Cement, Government of 
Bombay , Bombay , to exercise the powers of the Controller under clause 5C of 
the said Order , within the State of Bombay . 

2 . The notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and 
Supply , No. I ( 1) -4 (32) -II, dated the 17th January , 1951 is ereby cancelled . 
3. This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April , 1953 . 

[No. SC ( A )-4 (109 ) -A .) 
S . R . O . 652. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause (b ) of clause 2 
of the Iron and Steel (Scrap Control) Order , 1943, the Central Government is 
pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be made in the NotiAcation 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and Supply . No, I ( 1 ) - 4 ( 78 ) - A , 
dated the 6th January , 1951, as amended from time to time, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification , for the entry " Deputy Rationing 
Officer (Iron and Steel), Government of Bombay, Bombay " , the entry " Assistant 
(Controller of Iron and Steel and Cement, Government of Bombay , Bombay 
shall be substituted . 
2 . This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April, 1983. . . 

(No. SC ( A ) 4 ( 100 )-B1 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


LO 


cation shanent of bubombay,Suomen Notific 


S . R . O . 653. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( a ) of Clause 2 
of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941, the 
Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be 
made in the Notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry 
and Supply , No. I ( I ) - 1 (530 ) , dated the 26th May , 1948, No. I ( I ) - 1 (699 ) /48 - B , dated 
the 16th August 1948 and No . I ( I) - 1 ( 106 ), dated the 8th March , 1948 , as amended 
from time to time, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to each of the bald Notifications, for the entry 
" Rationing Officer ( Iron and Steel), Bombay " , the entry " Controller of Iron and 
Steel and Cement, Government of Bombay , Bombay " shall be substituted . 
2 . This Notifcation shall take effect from the 1st April , 1953. 

[No . SC (A )-4 (109 )C .) 
S . R . O . 654 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( a ) of Clause 2 
of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941, the 
Central Government is pleased to authorise the Controller of iron and Steel and 
Cement, Government of Bombay, Bombay, to exercise the powers of the Controller 
under clause 11D of the said Order , within the State of Bombay . 

2 . The Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and 
Supply No. I ( I) - 4 ( 32 ) - 1 , dated the 17th January , 1951 is hereby cancelled . 
2 . This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April , 1953 . 

[No. SC ( A )-4 ( 109) D .] 
S . R . O . 655 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by subrclause ( a ) of clause 2 
of the Iron and . Steel (Control of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941, the 
Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be 
made in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry 
and Supply No. I ( I) -4 ( 41 ) , dated the 7th September , 1950, as amended from timo 
to time, namely : - - 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification , for the entry " Rationing 
Officer ( Iron and Steel ) , Government of Bombay, Bombay " , the entry " Controller 
of Iron and Steel and Cement, Government of Bombay, Bombay " shall be sub 
stituted . 
2. This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April, 1953 . 

[No. SC ( A )-4 (109 ) E .] 
8 . R . O . 656 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( a ) of Clause 2 
of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941, the 
Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be 
made in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry 
and Supply No . 1 ( 1 ) 4 (41) , dated the 7th September, 1950, as amended from time 
to time, namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification , for the entry " Deputy Ration 
Ing Officer ( Iron and Steel) , Government of Bombay , Bombay , the entry " Assistant 
Controller of Iron and Steel and Cement, Government of Bombay , Bombay " shall 
be substituted . 
2 . This Notification shall take effect from the 1st April, 1953 . 

[No. SC ( A )-4 (109 ) F .) 
D . HEJMADI, Under Secy . 


COFFEE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1953 
S . R . O . 657. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 
of the Coffee Market Expansion Act, 1942 (VII of 1942), and in partial modification 
of the notifcation of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry and 
Supply No . 13 ( 1 ) - I (6 ) / 50 , dated the 12th June 1950, the Central Govertiment, on 
the recommendation of the Pa ni-Bodi-Sirumalai Coffee Growers Association , 
Pattiveeranpatti (Madura District) hereby nominate Mr. W . P . A . S . Deenadayalan 
Planter, Pattiveeranpatti as a member of the Indian Coffee Board vice Mr. W . P . A 
Soundarapandian , deceased . 

[ No . 13 (2 )- Plant /10. ) 
8 . G . RAMACHANDRAN , Dy. Sowy . 


400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1963 


( PART II -- SEC . 3: 


New Delhi, the 11th April 1953 
S . R . O , 658 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Supplles ( Temporary Powers ) Act. 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Cotton 
Textiles (Control) Order , 1948, nameiy : -- 

In the said order , in the proviso to paragraph ( a ) of suh - clause ( 3 ) of clause 21, 
for the word and figurc " March 1953" the word and figure " June 1953 " shall be 
substituted 

Nj, 9 (4 ) -CT ( A ) / 53-3. ) 
S . A , TECKCHANDANI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1953 
S . R . O . 659. In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( q ) of section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act ( IX of 1946 ), the Federation of Rural People s 
Organisation have renominated Prof. N . G . Ranga, M . P ., to be a member of the 
Indian Central Oilseeds Committee with effect from 1st April , 1953. 

( No. F .5-2 / 63-Com .I.] 
F . C . GERA , Asstt. Secy . 


(Agriculturo ) 

New Delhi, the 1st April 1953 
8 .R . O . 660. - In pursuance of the Appropriate Provisions of the Indian Cotton 
Cess Act , 1923 (XIV of 1923 ) , the Cen ral Government are pleased to appoint/ re 
nominate the following persons to be members of the Indian Central Cotton Com 
mittee , Bombay , with effect from the 1st April, 1953. 
1. Seth Issardas Varindmal, c / o M / s. Kotak and Co ., 

Navsari Building, Hornby Road , Fort Bombay. 
2 . Sardar Sher Singh , Montgomery Dairy Farm , Under Section 
Karnal, 

4 ( X ) 
3 . Shri D , N , Mahta , Secretary to the Government of 

Bombay , Agriculture and Forests Deptt ., Bombay . i 
4 . Shri A . Mooller , C / o Messrs . Volkart Bros., Bombay, to represent the 

Tutico in Chamber of Commerce, Tuticorin , under Section 4 (iv ) . 
5 . Shri J . K Srivastava . Managing Director, The New Victoria Mills Co . Ltd ., 

Civil Liles , Kanpur , to represent the Upper India Chamber of Com 

merce , under Section 4 ( iv ) . 
6 . Shri A . P , Darlow , C / o The Gull & Co ., Ltd ., Bombay to represent the 

Bombay Chamber of Commerce , Bombay , under section 4 (lv ). 
7 . Shri T. P , Chakravarti, C / The Mohini Mills Ltd ., 214 , Cross Street, 

Calcutta , to represent the Government of West Bengal, under section 
4 (vl) . 

INO. F .1 - 2 /53-Com . IL ] 
J. S . RAJ, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1953 
8 . R . O , 661 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule (2 ) of rule 3 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951 . read with Rule 6 _ cf the said Rules the 
Central Government hereby appoints Professor R . D . Sinha Dinkar as a member of 
the Central Board of Film Censors with effect from the 15th April , 1953 , vice 
Dr . V . K . R . V . Rao resigned . 

[No. 8 ( 12 ) /63- FIL ) 
C . R . RAQ , Dy . Secy . 


PART 11 - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1953 
S . R . O , 662 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the 
Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ). the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the Drugs Rules , 1945 , the same 
having been previously published as required by the said sections, namely : 

In Schedule K to the said Rules, after item 8 , the following item shall be 
added at the end, namely : 
" 9 . Magnesium Sulphate . The provisions of Sub - clausc ( i) of clause (a ). 

of section 18 of the Act to the following extent: 
Chlorides present in the salt shall not cxceed ( -12 per cent in the case 
of the product prepared from sea -water ." 

[No. F . 1- 19 / 50 -DS. ] 
S . R . O . 663 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) ot section 1 of the Drugs Act, 1940 
- (XXIII of 1940 ), the Central Government hereby appoints the 1st day of April , 

1953 , as the date from which chapters III and IV of the said Act shall take effect in 
the States of Himachal Pradesh , Bilaspur, Kutch , Bhopal, Tripura , Vindhya Pra 
desh and Manipur . 

[No. F . 1-8 / 50 -DS. ] 
S . R . O . 664 . - In pursuance of section 18 of the Drugs Act 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , 
the Central Government hereby fixes 1st day of April, 1953 , as the date for the 
purposes of the said section in respect of the States of Himachal Pradesh , Bilaspur , 
Kutch , Bhopal, Tripura , Vindhya Pradesh and Manipur. 

[ No. F . 1-8 / 50 -DS .1 
S . R . O . 665 , - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 1 of the Drugs Rules , 1945 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints 3.st day of April, 1953, as the date on 
which the said Rules shall come into force in the States of Himachal Pradesh , 
Bllaspur, Kutch , Bhopal, Tripura , Vindhya Pradesh and Manipur. 

[ No . F .1-8 / 50- DS .] 
S . R . O . 666 . - In pursuance oſ scction 10 of the Drugs Act. 1940 (XXIII of 1940 ) , 
the Central Government hereby fixes the 1st day of April, 1953 , as the date for 
the purposes of the said section in respect of the States of Himachal Pradesh , 
Bilaspur, Kutch , Bhopal, Tripura , Vindhya Pradesh and Manipur. 

[No. F . 1- 8 / 50 -DS .) 
S . DEVANATH Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30th March 1953 
S . R . O . 667. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 19 
of the Evacuce Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby orders that all cascs in respect of composite properties situated in 
the districts mentioned in column 1 of the Schedule hereto annexed and pending 
before Shri G . Y . Deo , Compcient Officer, Nagpur shall stand transferred to Com 
petent Officer mentioned in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said 
Schdule . 

SCHEDULE 


Districts 


Name of Competont Omcor to 
whoin cases aro transforrad 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


Jabalpur, Sagar , Mandla , Chhindwara , 
Bilaspur , Surguja and Raigerh . . . . 


Shri R . S . Agarwalk , Competont Office , 
with headquarters at Jabalpur. 


[No. 82 ( 14 ) /51-Prop . ] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN , Asstt. Secy . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


(PART II — SEC. 8 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd April 1953 
S . R . O . 668. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 43 of the Indian Post 
Omce Act , 1898 , (VI of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933 . 
namely : - 
To rule 112 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that the amount of commission payable on a family allotment 

money order booked by an army Record Omce , shall be calculated at 
1 . 75 per cent. of the total amount of the Family Allotment Money 
Orders booked and in making such calculation a fraction of an anna 
less than six ples shall be disregarded and a fraction of an anna equal 
to or exceeding six pies shall be regarded as one anna." 

( C 8- 14 / 51. ] 
K . V . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1953 
S . R . O . 669. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 of the Delhi 
Road Transport Authority Act, 1950 (XIII of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Delhi Road Transport Authority 
(Advisory Council) Rules , 1951, published with the notifcation of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Transport No . S . R . O . 1298 , dated the 20th August 1951 , 
pamely : - - 

In the proviso to sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 9 of the said Rules , for the words " a 
month " the words " three months " shall be substituted . 

[ No . 18 - TAG (8) / 53. ] 
S. K . VENKATACHALAM , Asstt. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th April 1953 
S . R . O . 670. The following draft of certain amendments in the Calcutta Port 
Rules , published with the notification of the Government of India in the late War 
Transport Department No . 9 - P ( 19 ) / 42, dated the 3rd December , 1943, which it is 
proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
8 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908), is published as required by sub 
section ( 2 ) of the said section , for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 15th May , 1953 . 

2. Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said rules - - 
. 1. After clause (b ) of rule 49 the following clauses shall be added , namely : 
" ( c ) in the area Cossipore to Bally — between a line drawn north of Pran 

Nath Roy Chowdhuri s Ghat to a point 250 feet north of Chuni Mull 
Khettri s Ghat on the right bank and a line drawn from the north end 
of the Cossipore Gun and Shell Factory on the left bank to a point 

700 feet south of Gardener s House on the right bank . 
( d ) in the area Khardah to Barrackpore between & line drawn 950 feet 

north of Jagannath Ghat to a point 125 feet north of a ghat at 
Titaglur Jute Mill on the left bank and a line drawn 700 feet south 
of Jagannath Ghat on the right bank to a point 300 feet north of the 
northern jetty of the Khardah Jute Mill on the left bank . 


PART II- - SEC. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL : 11, 1983 


( e ) in the area Ichapur to Shamnagar - -between a line drawn 350 feet south 

of Durgamoni Ghat on the right bank to a point 1,200 feet north 06 
Shastitola Ghat on the left bank and a line drawn 350 feet north of 
Cherbindi Ghat on the right bank to a point 050 feet north of Harlah 

Basu s Ghat , Shamnagar, on the left bank " . 
II. In rule 60 after the figure " 48" the figures, letters and brackets " 49 ( c ), ( d ), 
( e )" , shall be inserted . 

[ No , 9 -PI(97) / 52. ] 
R . S. BAHL , Under Secy. 


PORTS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1953 
S . R . O . 071, - In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act , 1879 (Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , the Central Government hereby publisher 
the following returns received from ( 1 ) the Secretary, the Indian National Steam 
ship Owners Association , Bombay , ( il) the Secretary . Mill-owners Association , 
Bombay (ili) the Secretary , Bombay Chamber of Commerce (iv ) the Secretary, 
Indian Merchants Chamber , Bombay ( v ) the Secretary , Maharashtra Chamber of 
Commerce, Bombay . ( vi) the Municipal Secretary , Municipal Corporation of Great 
er Bombay : 

Returns showing the names of persons elected in accordance with the provision 
of the Bombay Port Trust Act to be members of the Board of Trustees of the 
Port of Bombay for a period ending on the 31st March 1955 : 
Name of electing body 

Names of persons elected . 
The Indian National Steamship Ownergi 

Shri Prataptinh 8 . 
ANOoiation , Bombay . 

Vallabhdas . 


The MillowDOrd AgBociation Bombay . 


Shri Krishnaraj Madhavji . 

Damodar Thaokeray. 


The Bombay Chamber of Conmeroe, 

Bombay. 
The Indian Merchants Chamber, Bombay. 


Shri A , Kirkwood Brown . 
$ bri M . Paspatti, 


Shri M . A . Mastor . 
Shri Ramda Kileohand . 
Shri P , M . Chinai . 
Shri Murarji J . Vaidya 
Shri Vallabhdas Varpanjl. 

Mariwala . 
Shri Tulsidas Mulji Vishram . 


Shri M . L . Dhanukur . 


The Maharashtra Chamber of Commorce , 

Bombay . . . 
Munioipal Corporation of Greater 

Bombay . 


Shri Yusuf 8 . Peerbhoy . 
Dr. S . G . Patel, M . B ., B . 8 . 


[No, 8-PI(9) / 53 - A . 


S . R . O . 672 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 read with sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 13A of the Bombay Port Trust Act , 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 
1879 ), the Central Government hereby appoints the following persons to be mern 
bers of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay for a period ending with the 
31st March 1955 : --- 
The Commissioner of Police , Bombay (Representative of the Government of 

Bombay ) , 
The Collector of Customs, Bombay , ex - oficio . 
The General Manager , Central Railway , ex -officio , 
The General Manager , Western Rallway, ex - officio , 
The Municipal Commissioner for the City of Bombay , ex- officio . 
The Director General of Shipping (Representative of the Mercantile Marino 

Department, Bombay) . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


The Sub -Area Commander , Bombay (Representative of the Defence services). 
The Commodore-in -charge, Bombay (Representative of the Indian Navy ). 
Shri Dinkar Desai. M .A ., LL .B ., and Shri H , N . Trivedi. (Representatives of 
Labour) , 

[No. 8 - PI(9 ) / 53 -B .) 


S . R . O . 673 . - Whereas the East India Cotton Association , Ltd ., Bombay , has 
failed to elect a trustee on the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay within the 
period prescribed by section 10 of the Bombay Port Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act 
VI of 1879 ). Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) 
of section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby nominates Shri . 
Madanmohan R . Ruin of Messrs . Ramnarain Sons Ltd ., Bombay, as a member of 
the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay for a period ending with the 31st 
March , 1955 . 

[ No . 8-PI(9) / 53 -C .) . 
S. N . CHIB , Dy . Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

ORDER 
New Delhi, the 4th April 1953 


S . R . O . 674 , - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Essential 
Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act, 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ), the Central Government. 
hereby directs that powers to make orders under section 3 of the said Act in 
relation to the matters specified in clauses ( c ), ( d ), ( e ), (f ), (h ) (i ), and ( j) of 
sub -section ( 2 ) of the said section shall, in respect of coal Supplies received within 
the State of Saurashtra , from time to time against the quota fixed by the Central 
Government for detailed allocation by the State Government. be exercisable also 
by the Director of Civil Supplies, Government of Saurashtra , subject to any general 
or special orders that may be issued by the Central Government. 

[No. 18 - CI (4 ) / 53. ) 
P . M . NAYAK, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 


New Delhi, the 1st April 1953 


S . R . O . 675 . In pursuance of the provisions of sub - clauses ( 1 ) and (3 ) of clause 
4 of the Bombay Dook Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1951, and in 
partial modification of the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No . S . R . O . 537 , dated the 9th April 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints with effect from the 1st April 1953, Shri N . H . G . Grant, representativer 
of the Karmahom Committee, Bombay , to be a member of the Bombay Dock 
Labour Board , vice Shri M . R . Das, resigned . 

[No. Fac.73 (23).) 


S . R . O . 676 . — The following draft of certain further amendments in the Calcutta 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1951, which it is proposed to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Act, 1948 ( IX of 1948 ) , is published as 
required by the said sub - section read with sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th May 
1953 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1983 
- - - -- - - -- - -- - - = 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Scheme 
1 . In paragraph (b ) of sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 10 , for the words " at the 

time when the Scheme is put into operation " , the words " on the date 

of constitution of the Board " shall be substituted . 
2 . In sub -clause ( 1 ) of clause 13, for the words, " Immediately before the 

coming into force of the Scheme" , the words " on the date of con 
stitution of the Board " shall be substituted . 

[ No . Fac. 74 (11).) 
S . V . JOSHI, Dy. Sery . 


New Delhi, the 2nd April 1953 
S . R . O . 677 , - In pursuance of section 10 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the following tur 
ther amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour , No. SS . 21 (4 ), dated the 28th December , 1948, constituting 
- the Medical Benefit Council, namely : --- 

In the said notification for item No. ( 10 ), the following item shall be substitut 
red , namely : 
" ( 10 ) Col, A . N . Chopra , Director of Medical and Health Services. Uttar 
Pradesh , Lucknow ." 

[No. SS . 121 (49 ) .) 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 2nd April 1953 
S . R . O . 678 , -. In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
-The Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the manage 
ment of the Nanji Kujama Colliery and their workmen . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD , 

REFERENCE No. 25 OF 1951 . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave , B . A . LL .B ., Chairman . 
PARTIES : 
The management of the Nanji Kujama Colliery . 

Vs. 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri S . S . Mukherjea, Pleader, for the Management . 

Shri Brahmanand Lal, Acting General Secretary , Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat 
for the Workmen . 

AWARD 


By notification No. LR . 2 ( 351). dated 29th August , 1951, the Government of India . 
in the Ministry of Labour, referred to this Tribunal the dispute between the 
management of the Nanji Kujama Colliery and their workmen regarding the classi 
fication of labourers working as wagon loaders . The usual notices were issued to 
the parties who put in their respective statements. On the retirement of my 
predecessor Shri S . P . Varma, the dispute was referred to me for adjudication by 
the Government of India , Ministry of Labour , by Order No. LR . 2 (395 ), dated 4th 
February , 1953 . 

2 . The case of the workmen is that there are about 40 workmen doing the wort 
of wagon loading in the above colliery . This work is done on plece - rate basis ; and 
the weekly earnings of loading wagons during the whole week are distributed 
among all the 40 wagon loaders . The management however refused to treat all 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[ PART II - SEC. 


of them on a uniform basis . They have placed only 22 of them on their register ; 
and only these 22 wagon loaders are given nomal privileges enjoyed by the work 
men under the award of the Board of Conciliation . The remaining wagon loaders , 
though doing the same work as the remaining 22, are not given the benefits of 
issue of rations at concessional rates , free rice , cash allowance for attendance , 
quarterly bonus , and provident fund . The workmen pray that the management 
should be ordered to abolish the distinction between the diferent wagon loaders 
and that the wagon loaders other than the 22 loaders who are on the roll of the 
colliery should be given the same privileges as the others, and that they should be 
compensated for all the loss that is suffered by them , 

3 . The management urge that the loading op wagons is usually entrusted by 
them to the loading sirdars who are being paid for the work of loading of different 
wagons. It is further urged that ordinarily six persons are found sufficient to 
load one wagon per day ; that the colliery usually receives three wagons per day 
and can therefore employ only 18 loaders but making allowance for absence etc . 
they have employed 22 wagon loaders . It is further urged that on the days on 
which they receive more than three wagons which is very rate the loading sirdars 
" recruit extra persons usually from the dependents of the workers residing in the 

colllery ( and some times even outsiders are recruited to do a particular job on a 
particular occasion ); that the same set of persons are not employed everytime; 
that the wagon loaders are not the workmen of the management; that the manage 
ment had made no distinction or discrimination between the same class of work 
men and that in the circumstances the claim of the workmen should be rejected . 

4 . The issue that arises for decision is as to whether the wagon loaders, other 
than the 22 wagon loaders who were on the rolls of the colliery, are entitled to 
the same privileges as the others , My finding is in the negative . 

5 . As I said above , the case of the workmen is that the management have in 
their employment 40 persons working as wagon loaders but that the names of only 
22 out of these persons are kept on the register of the management and only these 
22 persons are given ( 1 ) supply of rations at concessational rates , ( 2 ) free supply 
of 7 seer of rice per day , (3 ) attendance bonus, ( 4 ) quarterly bonus and (5 ) provi 
dent fund . They claim that the other 18 wagon loaders , who are doing the same 
work as the 22 wagon loaders on the rolls of the management, should also be given 
the same privileges . The management have denied that 40 persons are engaged 
by them as wagon loaders . They Arstly contend that the wagon loaders were not 
employed by them but were employed by the sirdars. (that is , by contractors ) and 
the wagon loaders could not therefore be said to be the employees of the manage 
ment. Secondly they urge that only 22 persons are ordinarily employed by the 
sirdars for working as wagon loaders . In this connection , they say that six per 
sons are usually required to load one wagon per day and as ordinarily they are 
supplied three wagons every day , 18 wagon loaders would be sufficient for doing 
their work . To provide for contingency of absence etc . 22 wagon Ioaders were 
In fact engaged . It is further said that on those days on which they get more 
wagons than threc , some persons are temporarily engaged for the day and are 
pald for the work done by them . 

6 . The question as to whether the wagon loaders are the employees of the 
management or of the sirdars is a question , which in my opinion , is not necessary 
to be considered or decided in the present case; because assuming that the Wagon 
loaders are the employees of the management, the workmen have falled to prove 
that there are actually 40 wagon loaders employed by the management for the 
, work . As I said above, the case of the management is that only 22 persons are 
considered necessary for their work of wagon loading and this is the number they 
have on their roll. They denied that 40 persons were engaged by them , At 
the outset, I may mention that not only has no evidence been led by the workmen 
in support of their contentions, but oven the names of the 18 persons who were 
said to have been working as wagon loaders and whose names were not found on 
the register of the management, were not given till the arguments were heard . 
None of these persons has been examined to show that he or she has been 
( regularly ) working as a wagon loader in this colliery . It may then be noted that 
at least five of the persons mentioned in this list which was glven at the tine of 
arguments were on the registers of the colliery and therefore getting the usual 
benefits and privileges which the other working are getting. I may then point out 
that the allegations of the workmen would mean that persons who were not shown 
in the attendance register of the colliery were actually working there. If that 
were so , it would be an illegal practice , but no complaint appears to have been 
made so far by anyone before any authority . This also shows that the allegation 


457 . 


: 


PART IISEC, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1953 
-- = 
that 18 persons though working as wagon loaders are not shown in the registers 
of the management cannot be believed . 


7 . Shri Bhattacharya , the Manager of the colliery has been examined on behalf 
of the management and he has said that only 22 wagon loaders are in the employ 
of the company . He has further said that about 6 persons are required to load 
one wagon per day ; and that usually three wagons are supplied to this colliery 
everyday ; and that because of this , the number of wagon 10aders is fixed as 22. 
He then said that on those days on which more wagons are supplied 10 the colliery , 
the loading sirdars are asked to arrange for the extra labour and they do so . He 
further said that the same persons are not employed as extra labourers everyday 
that extra wagons are supplied to them , His statement has not been contradict 
ed and there is no reason to dis -believe him . I may mention that I called upon 
the management to produce a statement showing the wagons supplied to them from 
day to day for the period April 1950 to December, 1952, and I found that it is on 
very rare occasions that this colliery has got more wagons than three on a parti 
cular day. This corroborates the evidence of the manager that they would not 
normally require more than 22 wagon loaders and that on those rare occasions 
when they get more wagons, extra labour is temporarily recruited . These extra 
labourers recruited for the day could not be said to be employees of the colliery, 
and are not entitled to all the benefits of regular workmen . 


8 . I may here mention that these workers recruited for the day get free ration 
of seer rice and daily cash allowance . They cannot get rations at concession rates, as 
adinittedly this concession requires a presence for particular number of days in 
the week . The concession of quarterly bonus and provident fund also require a 
minimum attendance of particular number of days in a quarter. 


9 . It was argued on behalf of the workmen that the registers of the company 
show that on different dates , 21 loaders were puid , while the attendance marked 
was of 20 persons and that this would show that the management was in the 
habit of defrauding the workers and preventing them from enjoying their normal 
privileges . In my opinion , the registers do not warrant a conclusion that the 
management is defrauding their workers . All that could be said against the books 
was that they were not carefully kept. If the management was playing fraud . I 
am sure it would have been careful to see that there was no such discrepancy . 
The above discrepancy would probably mean that the attendance clerk had not 
carefully marked the attendance . But so far as the payment was concerned , 
it was properly made. In this connectiofi, I may point out that the wagon 
loaders are paid according to the work done by them , that is they are 
paid a particular amount per wagon and the total earnings earned by loading the 
wagons is divided among the different workers. Hence the mistake in marking 
attendance can be rectified without difficulty , at the time of making payments to 
the workmen . 


10 . I may repeat that though the workmen have alleged that the management 
has engaged 40 loaders but has put the names of only 22 on its roll , there is not 
an iota of evidence in support of that allegation . As I said before , no one has 
been examined in support of this allegation . The names of these 18 persons wero 
not given till in the course of the arguments . Even then the other side was able 
to point out that the five of these persons were on the register of the management. 
None of these alleged wagon loaders has been examined to show that he has been 
working as a wagon loader and yet his name is not on the register. I am not thug 
satisfied that there are any wagon loaders other than the 22 on the roll of the 
management and hence none is entitled to any privileges. 


In the result , I hold that there are no wagon loaders, other than the 22 wagon 
loaders who are on the register of the colliery and that none else is entitled to any 
of the privileges claimed by the workmen . I give my award accordingly . 

[No . LR -2 (351). 1 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE, Chairman , 
S . R . O . 679 . — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the manage 
ment of the Standard Colliery (Messrs. Standard Coal Co . Ltd . P . O . Sijua ), and 
their workmen . 


458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1933 


[PART II« SEC . 3 


. 


. 


- 


T . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 15 OF 1951. 
PRESENT : 

Shri L. P . Dave, B . A ., LL . B . - Chairman . 
PARTES : 
Management of Standard Colllery namely Messrs, Standard Coal Co. Ltd . 

P . O . Şijua . 
Their workmen . 


AND 


APPEARANCES : 
Shri D , Basu Thakur, solicitor, Orr Dignam and Co., Solicitors , assisted by 

Shri K , C . Sen , for the management. 
Shri S . S . Mukherjea , Pleader , Dhanbad , for the workmen . 

AWARD 
By notifcation No, LR4 ( 200 ) , dated 24th May , 1951 and as amended by subse 
quent notification No . LR .4 (200 ), dated 19th February , 1952, the dispute between 
the workmen of the Standard Colliery and their management in respect of ( 1 ) 
compensation for earned leave, ( 2 ) proportionate bonus for the quarter and ( 3 ) 
railway fare , was referred to this Tribunal. 

2 . Usual notices were issued to the parties and they Aled their respective state 
ments . On the retirement of my predecessor Shri S . P . Varma, the dispute was 
referred for adjudication to me by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour, 
Order No . LR . 2 ( 395 ), dated 4th February, 1953 . Notices were issued to the parties 
and they appeared before me on 23rd February , 1953. On going through the papers 
and hearing the parties and discussing with them the points in dispute , I found 
that so far as the present case was concerned , there was practically no dispute on 
principles, but that the details had to be worked out. I thereupon asked tho 
management to put in certain statements which they did and the workmen Aled 
objections thereto . The matter was then Axed for hearing on 13th March , 1958 , 
When after some discussion the parties Aled a memorandum of agreement arrived 
at between them . 


3 . It appears that the Standard Colliery was producing coal for over 50 years 
and they alleged that by 1950 all available coal in the colliery was nearly exhaust 
ed and further working became uneconomic and also unsate . In the circumstances , 
they decided to close down the colllery with the result that almost all the work 
men were discharged in February 1951 . The workmen claimed that they should 
be paid wages for the period of earned leave that was due to them at the time and 
hat they should also be paid proportionate bonus for the Arst quarter of 1951 and 
also railway fare. They also claim compensation and other reliefs for their dis 
charge. But for these matters there is another reference namely Reference No. 2 
of 1952 which is pending before me. So far as the present reference is concerned , 
It is regarding the amount payable to the workers in respect of the earned leave 
due to them on the date of their discharge proportionate bonus for the work done 
by them during the Arst quarter of 1951, and the railway fares payable to them 
The management stated that they were prepared to pay all these amounts to the 
workers to whom they may be due and have actually paid the amounts to several 
workers . The memorandum of compromise is to the same effect. It is reasonable . 
It is appendix A annexed herewith . I give my award in terms of that agreement. 
I, therefore , give my award as aforesald , this the 28th day of March , 1953. 

(Sd.) L . P . DAVE , Chairman . 
DHANBAD ; 
The 28th March , 1953, 

APPENDIX " A " 
Before the Chairman , Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 
In the matter of Reference No. 15 of 1951. 

AND 
In the matter of Messrs. Standard Coal Co. Ltd , 

Vs. 
Their workmen . 


. . - - 


- 


Part II -- Sec, 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 

459 
- - - - 

- - - 
The humble petition on behalf of the parties most respectfully shewth . 

1. That so far as the items to the schedule of the reference it is agreed that 
the demand of Earned leave , Railway fare and Bonus will be paid where qualified 
under the Rules. 

2 . That the proper dues of the workmen who have not received on those ac 
counts as per reference will be paid by the management, 

3. That this agreement is without prejudice to the workmen s right to Refer 
ence No. 2 of 1952. 

4 . It is agreed that such payment will be made at the Chief Mining Engineer s 
Omce, Sijua every Wednesday during office hours but payment will also be made 
on Thursdays during June and July , 1953 , on joint identification of the workmen 
by the Union representative and the Management. 

Under the circumstances It is prayed that the Award may kindly be made in 
the terms of the above agreement. 
For workmen 

Per Pro . F . W . Heilgers and Co. Ltd ., 
( Sd .) S . S . MUKHERJEE , 

( Sd .) K . C . SEN , 
13 - 3 -53 . 

Managing Agent of Standard Coal Ço . Ltd ., 
(Sd.) SAIVA KALI BOSE , 

13- 3- 53. 
13- 3-53. 

( Sd .) D . Bosu THAKUR , Solicitor, 
President, Standard Colllery Branch 

Orr , Dignam and Co ., Solicitors 
of Bihar Colliery , Mazdur Sangh , 

13 - 3 -53 
Filed . 
( Sd.) L . P . DAVE - - Chairman , 
Central Govts. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 
13 - 3 -53 . 

[ No . LR -4 ( 200 ). ) 


S . R . O . 680. - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Charki aud Sugl Mica Mines in the State of Bihar and their workmen . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 4 OF 1952. 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P , Dave, B . A .,LL . B ., - Chairman . 
PARTIES : 
The employees ( M / S . Chatturam Horllram Ltd .) in relation to Charki and 

Sugi Mica Mines in the State of Bihar, 


AND 


Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri H . K . Mishra , Mines Agent, M / S . Chatturam Horliram Ltd ., for the 

Management. 
Shri H . N . Singh , President, Mica Labour Union ., for the workmen . 

AWARD 
By notification No. LR .2 ( 384) , dated 13th March , 1952, the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour has referred to this Tribunal the dispute between the 
employers of Charki and Sugi Mica Mines in the State of Bihar and their workmen 
in respect of the dispute relating to the payment to workmen of house rent allow 
ance in lieu of quarters with effect from 1st July , 1948 . 

2 . Usual notices were issued to the parties and they filed their written state 
ments . Before the matter could be taken up by my predecessor Shri S . P . Varma , 
he retired and thereafter the above matter was referred to me tor adjudication by 
the Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Order No . LR .2 ( 395 ) , dated 4th 
February , 1953 . Notices were issued to the parties who appeared on 26th Febru 
ary , 1953, when after hearing them and discussing the points in dispute , I framed 


480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[PART 1 - - SEC. 3 


necessary issues. The matter was then fixed for hearing on 11th March , 1953, on 
which date an adjournment was asked for for settling the dispute amicably . The 
matter was then adjourned to 18th March , 1953, on which date the parties put in 
a memorandum of settlement arrived at between them , 

3 . It appears that there was a dispute between the employers of the Mica 
Mines of Bihar and their workmen regarding payment of wages, house rent etc . 
and the matter was referred to adjudication to this Tribunal by Reference No. 2 
of 1848 . The then Chairman Mr. Jcejeebhoy after considering all the matters 
placed before him gave an award which provided inter alia that each workman 
who lived at the mines should be paid Rs. 4 per calendar month , provided he ful 
Alled certain conditions. The workmen in the present case urged that all the 
workers were not given the house rent and they were entitled to it . Secondly 
they urged that the rate should be increased from Rs. 4 to Rs. 6 per month . By 
the terms of the compromise , the parties have agreed that the rate is to remain as, 
it is and the management have agreed to pay up the house rent to those workers who 
are entitled thereto under the terms of the above memorandum . I have gone: 
through the memorandum of compromise between the parties copy of which is 
annexed herewith as appendix A and I think that it is reasonable . 
I therefore give my award in terms of the agreement. 

(Sd .) L . P . DAVE, Chairman .. 
DHANBAD ; 
The 27th March , 1953 . 

APPENDIX " A " 
Memorandum of settlement before the Chairman , Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad .. 
In the industrial dispute Ref. 4 of 1952 . 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to Charki and Sugi Mica Mines in the State of Bihar... 

AND 
Their workmen . 
The above parties hereby agree that : -- 
1 . The monthly rated workers who have not been paid the house rent allow 

ance will be paid the same, if they have put in the necessary qualify 
ing service as laid down in the award of this Tribunal in Ref. 2 or 

1948 published in India Government Gazette on 10th July 1948 . 
2 . The dally rated workers will also be paid the house rent allowance at. 

the rates mentioned in the award provider they residę at the mines , 

for the period laid down in the award . 
3 . House rent allowance payable as above will be paid by the management 

in two equal instalments on 22nd March , 1953 and 15th April, 1953, 

respectively . 
4 . No daily rated workers was residing at the mines in 1948 , 1949 and 1950 

and none of them is entitled to any house rent allowance during this : 
period . The daily rated workers began to reside at the mines from 
January , 1951 and they will be paid house rent allowance on the basis 
of the book kept by the management provided by the terms of the 

award are fulflled . 
5 . Both the parties agree that in future the workers will be paid house rent 

allowance if they reside at the mines and they fulfil the other condi 

tion of the award . 
They also agree to abide by all the terms of the abovementioned award in this: 
respect. 

(Sd .) H . K . MISHRA , 
for Chatturam Horilram Ltd 

18 - 3 - 53. 
(Sd.) H . N . SINGH , President, 

Mica Labour Union . 

18 - 3 -53 . 
Flled . 

( $ d .) L . P . DAVE, Chalrman , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 
18 - 3 - 53. 

[No. LR,2 (364 ). 


PART II-- SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


401 


S . R . O . 681 . - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of . 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at Calcutta , in the matter of an 
application under Section 33 - A of the said Act preferred by Shri Anta Routh (alias :: 
Ananta Routh ) against Messrs E , C . Bose and Co., Calcutta . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA . 

20 / 1 , Gurusaday Road , Ballygunge , Calcutta - 19 . 
BEFORE SHRI K . S . CAMPBELL -PURI, B . A ., LL . B ., - Chairman . 

Application No. 113 / 52 (U / s 33 - A of the Act) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Anta Routh (alias Ananta Routh ), 26B Harkata Lane, Calcutta - 12 - Applicant. 

Versus 
Messrs. E . C . Bose and Co ., 22 , Strand Road , Calcutta - Opposite Party . 

In the matter of an application dated 26th November, 1952 preferred by Shri 
Anta Routh (alias Ananta Routh ), Mate u / š 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (admitted during the pendency of proceedings in Reference No. 7 of 1951) . 
APPEARANCES : 

Shri Ananta Routh in person . 
Shri Biswanath Dubey, General Secretary , Dock Mazdoor Unlon , assisted by 

Shri Sisir Roy for the applicant, 
Shri C . S . Bose, for Messrs E . C . Bose and Co . , 

AWARD 
This is an application preferred by Shri Anta Routh (alias Ananta Routh ) u / .. 
33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 against his discharge from service . The 
complaint was based on the allegation which is more fully detailed in the applica 
tion itself than in his statement made before the Tribunal as his own witness . In 
view of the fact that the incident relating to the discharge of the petitioner was 
denied categorically by the other side and a counter version was given it would 
be proper for the proper understanding of the facts to reproduce the same from 
the application as below : 
“ The petitioner is a duly registered workman (Mate ) in the gang of Hari 

Routh Sardar under the firm of the opposite party . On 2nd February , 
1952 , he was granted two months leave by the opposite party from 
2nd February, 1952 to 2nd April, 1952. Accoraingly , on 2nd April, 
1952, the petitioner presented himself before the opposite party for 
the resumption of his duties . But without allowing him to resume his 
duties , the opposite party asked the petitioner to appear on the next 
day and on that day also he was treated in the same manner . He 
reported the matter to the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 
at Calcutta and Shri A , K . Mitra , the Labour Inspector (Central) and 
also to the Dock Mazdoor Union of which he is a leading member . 
After some days when he once again appeared before the opposite 
party for his " rightful employment” , his original leave - slip was taken 
away from him by the opposite party on a false pretext and a fresh 
slip was handed over to him in which the leave period was reduced 
from two months to one , i. e . from 2nd February , 1952, to 2nd March , 
1952. The petitioner having no knowledge of English in which 
language the entries in the leave-slip were made, took the new slip 
from the opposite party in good faith but could realise later on that 
a toul trick was applied against him by the opposite party . The 
matter was brought to the notice of the Regional Labour Commis 
gjonor and the Labour Inspector who tried to persuade the opposite 
party to allow the petitioner to resume his duties repeatedly but to 
no effect. Thus the opposite party was illegally deprived the peti 
tioner of his rightful employment without securing necessary permis 
sions from the Tribunal for the same during the pendency of an 
Industrial dispute and has thereby contravened Section 33 of the 

Industrial Disputes Act, 
The petitioner, therefore , claims his rightful employment under the opposite 

party and prays for duc compensations for the losses sustained 

by him on account of the Illegal act done by the opposite party ." 
It will be seen from the above quotation that the Employer has been accused 
of having fabricated a new leave-slip in order to terminate the services of a casual 


.. 402 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[ PART II - SEÇ . 3 


worker as the petitioner happens to be and as such the allegation admits of close 
scrutiny in all its implications. The defence of the other side on merits was that 
the complainant was granted leave for one month only from 2nd February 1952 to 
2nd March , 1952 and on the expiry of the leave he talled to resume his duties or 
to apply for extension and after overstaying for more than a month he came to 
report on 4th April, 1952. As the complainant had been found habitual offender 

in the matter of overstay after leave as borne out from previous record he was 
.. served with a charge sheet on 16th April , 1952 to show cause as to why discipli 
nary action be not taken against him but he refused to submit any explanation 
despite service by registered poșt , 1nat an enquiry was held in absentia by the 
- Employer with the result that he was suspended from service pending the neces 

sary permission obtained from the Tribunal. It was alleged inter alia that the 
.. Dock Mazdoor Union ineanwhile Alled an application before the Labour Inspector 

(Central) relating to the stoppage of work of 19 ratings including the complainant 
and the non - payment of wages to some of them . Subsequently , conciliation pro 
ceedings started on the aforesaid application and a settlement was arrived at 
belore the Regional Labour Commissioner whereby the employers , Messrs E . C . 
Bose and Co. agreed to reinstate 16 workers out of 19 and the remaining 3 includ 
ing the petitioner were not allowed to be reinstated . It was maintained by the 
Employer in their defence that the case of the petitioner was covered under the 
memorandum of settlement dated 25th June, 1952 (Ex , A ) and as such the applica 
tion was not maintainable . The allegation made by the petitioner in regard to 
the change of the original leave- slip and fabricating a fresh one was emphatically 
denied . The Employer also raised some legal preliminary objections to the effect 
that the application was Aled after the award was made and was not entertain 
able and that refusal to provide work was covered under the definition Lock out" 
and as such was not affected by the provisions of 9 : 33. These objections were 
not seriously pressed in the course of arguments and need not be gone into . There 
was yet another objection viz . that the case of the applicant was covered under 
the Memorandum of Settlement ( Ex . A ). The position precisely in this connection 
is that the case of Shri Anta Routh was also referred to the Conciliation Officer 
along with 18 others as said above , but he was not allowed to join . The plea of 
the Employers that his case was covered under settlement has no substance 
inasmuch as borne out from the Memorandum of Settlement (Ex . A ) 16 persons 
were taken back but the employers dld not agree to take back the petitioner and 
- two others . It clearly means that no agreement was reached in the case of the 
"petitioner and he resorted to the remedy provided under section 33 - A , It was 
further urged on behalf of the employers that when once he muved the Regional 
Labour Commissioner or the Conciliation Officer he was not entitled to the remedy 
under section 33 - A but to my mind he is not precluded from seeking another 
remedy open to him and the objection is repelled . 

On facts the petitioner Shri Ananta Routh himself came into the witness bor 
as his own witness in support of complaint and the Union representative also 
examined Shri A , K , Mitra , Labour Inspector . On the other hand Shri Memal 
Chand Dutta , the clerk incharge of leave record was examined by the Employer . 
The petitioner reiterated the allegations made in the application itself and had 
nothing to add in his deposition , Shri Mitra deposed that so far he could re 
collect the petitioner Shri Ananta Routh approached him in the beginning of April 
1952 and reported that he had gone on leave and before the expiry of the leave he 
had come back and wanted to join his duty . The witness asked the petitioner to 
contact the management and assured him that he would be taken back at his 
" post. Shri Mitra further deposed that the petitioner showed him a leave- slip 
wherein it was stated that he was granted leave from a certain date of February 
1952 to a certain date of the month of April, 1952. But after three or four days 
he again met him and told him that he had approached the management and was 
told that the petitioner was late by one month in coming back and moreover that 
the original leave- slip shown earlier was taken back by the management and he 
" was given another slip which indicated that he was granted one month s leave 
only . Shri Mitra stated that he took up this matter on behalf of the petitioner 
in his capacity as Labour Inspector with the management but the employer main 
tained that the petitioner was late by one month and denied having issued any 
leave - slip to the petitioner for two months leave . Shri Mltra on certain questions 
asked from him by the Union representative further deposed that the dock work 
ers are not paid monthly salary and they are casual daily wagers. They are also 
not paid for the leave period , etc . Shri Memal Chand Dutta ( EW - 1 ) who was 
examined on behalf of the employers produced the leava register and referred to 
page 37 which relates to the leave record of Shri Ananta Routh . According to the 
entries of this record it was deposed by Shri Dutta that the leave period in 
question was one month viz . from 2nd February , 1952 to 2nd March , 1952 and the 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 . 463 . 

- - - 

- SP 
words overstay discharged were written in red ink against the name of the 
petitioner. Thus witness was subjected to , I should say, penetrating cross - examina 
tion by Shri Dubey who was able to elicit from the witness that the register was . 
not very regular and that the petitioner on two previous occasions also availed oti 
leave and was allowed to join , Reference was made to some other workers also . 
who were allowed to rejoin duty notwithstanding of overstay and that the case of 
the petitioner was a solitary one in which the employer insisted on his discharge 
and served him with a charge sheet. It was also dcposed by Shri Dutta in cross 
examination that sometimes leave slips were issued by the Manager of the Arm 
also . 

On the appraisal of this evidence which has been quoted in exteriso the simple 
question for determination on merits is whether the allegation of the petitioner 
more especially one of change of leave - slip was established by rellable cogent 
evidence on the record . In other words whether the petitioner was granted one 
month s leave as alleged by the Employers or two months leave . At any event 
from whatever stand point the evidence inży be considered the question for deter 
mination is with regard to the creditability of the sworn testimony of the peti . 
tioner and that of the clerk Shri Dutta and the general estimate of the circum - . 
stantial cvidence in regard to the truth and the reliability of the two divergent 
versions. The statement of the Labour Inspector , I should say, is not very helpful. 
It is just possible as he states that two slips on different Occasions were shown 
to him and he in his capacity as Labour Inspector contacted the management and 
enquired into the affair . The stand taken up by the employers in the course of 
his interrogation was also the same viz . that live pctitioner was granted only one 
month s leave and had overstayed for a month for which he was charge sheeted 
but retused to participate in the enquiry . I have scanned the allegatlons as set 
out in the application itsell in all its details and on careful consideration of the 
matter have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that it was rather a foul 
game played by the petitionce upon the employer . The reasons are ouvious and 
many . In the first place it does not stand to reason at all that why the man ap 
proached the Labour Inspector at the very ou act on his return from leave and 
asked him to contact the managernent and get him issured that he would be taken 
back in service because he had come before the expiry of the leave period . It 
betrays the guilly mind that the petitioner had overstayed and was apprehending 
that this time he would not be allowed and forestalled to seek the help ot the 
Labour Inspector, It further passes my comprehension that why the petitioner 
if he had come earlier should have the apprehension of not being admitted to 
service when he was working on daily wages. Even if there had been any ap 
prehension it is unintelligible that why the employer s went to the length of 
fabricating a leave- slip merely to dispense with the services of a casual worker : 
There is no evidence of any malevolence or enmity on the record . It is all very 
well to say that he is a prominent member of Union and the employer did not 
like his activities ; but in the absence of any evidence that his activities were dis 
liked by the management it appears to me that his pica of trade union activities 
had made him hold enough rather to overstay cvery time and this time he over 
stayed for more than a month and introduced a lcgve slip presumably a fabricated .. 
one to mislead the Labour authority and subsequently narrated a story that the 
original slip was taken away from him and a new slip of one month s leave was : 
given to him in lieu of that . The original slip of onc month leave was actually 
produced by the Union representative ( Ex . B ) which reads as follows: 
Ex . B : 
" Name Anta Routh , Sirdar Hari Routh , Allowed 1 month Leave from 2nd": 
February , 1952 to 2nd March , 1952. 

Received Identity card . 
One month leave upto 2nd March , 1952. 

(Sd .) N . C . DUTTA , 

for E . C . Bose and Co ." 
This slip has been duly rubber -stamped purporting to have been issued by E , C ... 
Bose and Co., Stevedores , Dubashes and Marine Contractors , 22 Strand Road . Cal 
cutta . The other slip which was alleged to be the original one giving two months 
leave was not produced and it was asserted that the same had been taken back 
by the management when he approached them for rejoining his post. It re 
quires too much credulity to believe such faked stories. The petitioner who states 
himself to be a leading and active trade unionist must have moved heaven and 
· earth if anybody had mishandled him or if anyone had changed the leave slip . 

The plea advanced was that he did not know English and could not find out that . 
the leave slip was changed . This again collapses to scrutiny when considered in 


* 84 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[PART II Sec . 3 


the ordinary course of events inasmuch as the writing of a new sllp must require 
some time and as said above who was responsible for this and what enmity he 
had with the petitioner for which he should have resorted to this foul fabrication 
in order to discharge a casual worker . There are other circumstances also which 
militate the applicant s version and go against him . The one is that the petitioner 
refused to submit his explanation when a charge sheet was served upon him and 
subsequently advanced the plea of change of leave- slip . It appears that his guilty 
mind did not allow him to come forward at that time and state the name of the 
man at the earliest stage who changed the leave - slip and explain the circum 
stances under which that became possible . Shri Dutta (EW . I.) who deals with 
leave record appeared on behalf of the Employer now but he was not accused of 
having changed the original leave- slip . In fact no question was put to him in 
this connection , for all the reasons given above the plea advanced by the 
applicant appears to be a concocted one and the same must be rejected . 

Regarding permission under section 33 - A of the Act , in the first place such 
permission to my mind was not necessary because it is not a case of discharge 
exactly . The petitioner himself overstayed and absented himself from duty and 
thereby vacated his job . The employers were therefore within their right to 
disallow a caşual worker to join but still he was given a charge sheet and enquiry 
was set up but he refused to participate . This is correct that the Employers on 
more than one occasions allowed others of rejoin although they overstayed but 
it clearly rests in the discretion of management and I think one who charged the 
Employers for having fabricated a leave - slip falsely in order to further his cause 
does not deserve any such concession . He rather stands non - suited on his own 
plea , which has no relation to truth . In the result , the application fails and tho 
:.same is dismissed . 

CALCUTTA ; 
The 24th March , 1933. 

K . S . CAMPBELL-PURI, Chairman , 
Central Government Industrial Trlbunal, Calcutta . 


New Delhi, the 7th April, 1953 
8 . R . O . 682. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the matter of certain applications under 
Section 33 - A of the said Act . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA 

20 / 1, Gurusaday Road , Ballygunge , Calcutta - 19 
BEFORE SHRI K . S . CAMPBELL -PURI, B . A ., LL . B ., - Chairman . 
Application No. 108 / 52 & No. 111 / 52 ; 

( 4 / 8 33 - A of the Act) 
PARTIES : 
( 1) Maulvi Lal Mohammad , Khamali No. 4 , 2 , Nawab Abdul Latit Street, 

Calcutta , 
(2 ) Sk . Majid , Rolia No. 1, 11 / 2 , Koila Sarak Road , Kidderpore, Calcutta . 
(3 ) Maulvi Sherajuddin , Khamali No. 3 , 9 / 1 , Taltala Båzar Street, Calcutta 
- Applicants. 

Versus 
Messrs Beney Madhub Mookerjee & Co ., 74 , Bentinck Street, Calcutta 

Opposite Party . 
In the matter of three applications all dated 26th November 1952 , preferred 

by ( 1 ) Myi. Lal Mohammad , Khamali No. 4 ( 108 - 52 ), (2 ) Sk . Majid , 
Rolia No . 1 ( 109 -52 ), and ( 3 ) Myi, Sherajuddin , Khamali No. 3 (111 -52) 
under Section 33 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (admitted 

during the pendency of proceedings in Reference No. 7 of 1951). 
APPEARANCES : 
Shri Biswanath Dubey, General Secretary, Dock Mazdoor Union , Calcutta , 

Assisted by Shri Sisir Roy , for the applicants. 
Shri K . C . Mukherjee for the Employers Messrs Beney Madhub Mukherjee 

& Co . 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


480 


AWARD 
These are three applications preferred by ( 1 ) Maulvi Lal Mohammad , Khamalt 
No. 4 , ( 2) Sk . Majid , Rolia No. 1 , and ( 3 ) Mvi. Sherajuddin , Khamali No. 3 the 
erstwhile workers of Messrs Beney Madhub Mukherjee & Co. under Section 33 - A 
of the Act during the pendency of an Industrial dispute referred under Ministry of 
Labour Notification No. LR - 3 ( 165) , dated 27th June 1951 (Reference No . 7 of 1951) . 
The applications were duly admitted and registered in this office as Applications 
No, 108 / 52, No . 109 / 52 and No . 111 / 52 respectively . Usual notices were issued to 
the other side and on the completion of pleadings the applications came up for 
hearing on 6th March 1953 before the Tribunal in the presence of Shri Biswanath 
Dubey , General Secretary , Dock Mazdoor Union assisted by Shri Sisir Roy for the 
anplicants ard Shri K C . Mukherjee for the employers , Messrs. Beney Madhub 
Mukherjee & Co. Both sides stated at the outset that the proceedings be con 
solidated in all three applications inasmuch as the facts are identical and common 
question of law was involved . Shri Dubey however filed an application wherein 
1t was stated that the applicants had left for their village home in the interior of 
Gaya district in Bihar and it was not possible to inform them earlier on the receipt 
of notice. He asked for time and the hearing was adjourned to this day the 23rd 
March 1953 by my Diary Order dated 16th March 1953. 


The applicants still did not turn up and Shri Dubey on behalf of all the three 
applicants examined Shri A . K . Mitra . Labour Inspector, Government of India , 
Mvi. Abdul Gaffar , a Sirdar of Messrs , Sarat Chatterjee & Co., and Shri Bholanath 
Mahanty , a Mate of Messrs. E . C . Bose and Company , Stevedores. The employer did 
pot examine any witness in rebuttal and only produced a letter sent by the 
Managing Partner of the Company to the Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) , 
dated 3rd May 1952 ( Ex , 1 ). The allegations upon which the complaints are based 
and repeated in all three applications read as follows: 
" The petitioner is a registered workman ( 

) in the gang of Taslim 
Sardar under the Arm of the apposite party . On 14th February 1952 
when an Industrial dispute was still pending before the Tribunal, the 
opposite party stopped the work of the petitioner without having 
secured necessary permissions from the Tribunal for the same and 
thereby violated the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 

Act. 
The petitioner , therefore , prays for his legitimate employment under the 

opposite party and due compensations for the Anancial losses incurred 
by the petitioner on account of the illegal stoppage of his rightful 

work by the opposite party ." 
Shri Dubey arguing on behalf of the petitioners contended that the employer AB 
deposed by the Labour Inspector refused to give booking to the Sirdar and stopped 
giving work to the applicants without having obtained the necessary permission 
under section 33 from the Tribunal during the pendency of Reference No . 7 of 1951. 
It was submitted that Maulvi Abdul Jabbar has already been made a Mate and 
has withdrawn the application which he also filed but the complainants have been 
thrown out of employment without any good cause . On the other hand the Employer 
argued that the complainants left the work of their own accord and did not turn 
up because they made a grievance as to why Maulvi Abdul Jabbar was not given 
double promotion and was not made a Sirdar. Shri Mukherjee on behalf of the 
employers furthermore urged that in case any Sirdar fails to take booking . It 
naturally goes to the other gang and as such it was rather the grievance of the 
employer that the applicants did not turn up for work when they were called upon . 
Reference was made to Ex . 1, a letter which was sent to the Regional Labour Com 
missioner about the situation wherein it was stated that the arrangement made on 
the death of $ k . Taslim , Sirdar, and his Mate , the first Khamali of that gang was 
given the rank of Mate and that this proposal was given to all the ratings of the 
bald gang but they refused to accept and since then they did not turn up . 


In the course of arguments however it so transpired that Shri Mukherjee on 
behalf oť the employer made a statement to the effect that the employer was 
prepared to take back all thrce applicants and give them one step promotion also 
as already done in the case of Abdul Jabbar provided the Union arranges for their 
Joining within two months from today . Shri Dubey in view of the position taken 
up by the employer felt satisfied but further asked for compensation for the inter 
vening period. The statements of the representatives of both sides are appended 
with the award in Appendix No. 1, and in view of the agreement arrived at I 
would direct the employer to take back Maulvi Lal Mohammad in service and 


486 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11, 1953 


[ PART 11 - SEC . 3 


e Of RON 


3 and takea juddin and give him Similarly 


promote him to Khamali No. 3 from Khamali No. 4 . Similarly the employer is : 
directed to take back Maulvi Sherajuddin and give him the job of Khamali No. 2 : 
Instead of Khamali No, 3 and take Sk . Majid as Khamall No. 4 by taking him up 
from the cadre of Rolia to the cadre of Khamali. In case , they do not join within 
two months from today , i.e . by 23rd May 1953 they will have no claim upon the 
employers for any more service and the award given in their favour for taking 
them back in the service shall stand rescinded . 

Coming to the question of compensation Shri Dubey strenuously urged that the 
applicants had left Calcutta after long waiting and starvation and in case they had 
been in service each one of them should have earned by this time about Rs. 800 . 
On the other hand Shri Mukherjee opposed and urged equally with vehemance that 
In the first place the applicants left of their own accord having made a grievance on 
the question of double promotion for Abdul Jabbar, to whom the employer could not 
give double promotion and as such no case was made out for compensation . Secondly , 
It was argued that this labour is admittedly casual labour and they work on the 
principle of no work no pay . They are moreover at liberty to get work anywhere 
alge when their services are not needed in this Company and as such the question 
of compensation does not arise . I have given my careful consideration on this 
aspect of the question and in the absence of any cogent evidence as to whether 
the applicants remained idle throughout during the period of non - employment in 
this company and good data for actual loss and moreover in vicw of nature of 
employment which is admittedly casual I do not think that any case has been made 
out for compensation . This is correct that the cmployer also has not adduced any 
evidence but the position taken up by the company s representative in the course 
of arguments was quite fair more especially in the circumstances when the appli -- 
cants despite another adjournment have not turned up to come into the witness 
box in support of their version given in the application . The evidence of the 
Labour Inspector does not help them much when it is admitted that the discussion 
which took place between the Labour Inspector and the employer was formal one: 
and was not put in writing and the position taken up by the employer while corres 
ponding with the Regional Labour Commissioner as borne out from Ex . 1 moreover 
runs counter to the position taken up by the applicants in their applications. For 
all these reasons I refuse to allow any compensation and make this award in terms 
of tho aprocent arrived at on the question of taking bark all three applicants 
Into the service of the Company with one step promotion within the period spccifled 
above . 
CALCUTTA ; 

( Sd.) K . S . CAMPBELL -PURT, Chairman , 
The 23rd March 1959. , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta . 


APPENDIX I 
Statement of Shri K , C . Mukherjee ; I state on behalf of the employers that the 
employer is prepared to take back Maulvi Lal Mohammed and make him Khamali 
No . 3 by giving him one promotion from Khamali No. 4 . Similarly I agree to 
take back Shirajuddin and give him one promotion and make him Khamali 
No. 2 from Khamali No. 3. I also agree to take back Sk . Majid , Rolia No . I and 
mpake him Khamali No. 4 and give him one promotion by taking him from the cadre 
of Rolia to the cadre of Khamali. 

Mvi. Abdul Jabbar has already been made a Mate . He was Khamall No. 1 wher : 
the differences arose between the parties . All three applicants as stated by me 
last time have left Calcutta and if the Union can arrange to bring them back 
within two months I have no objection in taking them . 
CALCUTTA ; 

(Sd .) K . C . MUKHERJEE . 
The 23rd March 1959 . . 

(Sa .) K . S . CAMPBELL -PURL: 


R .O . & A . C . 

( Sd .) K , S, C . 


Statement of Mr. Dubey : In view of the position taken up by the employer. 
side in the course of arguments I only add that the applicants have been out of 
employment for a long time and left after long waiting and starvation . I would 


PART II- SEC. 3 ] 


THL GAZETTE OF INDIA , APRIL 11 , 1953 


therefore urge for some amount of compensation . Under no circumstances the 
settlement of the present case suggested by the other side should be made a general 
l ule and topsy -turvy the present procedure and practice of promotion to higher 
cadro from lower cadre on death or discharge of higher ones of the same gang . 
The 23rd March 1953 . 

(Sd.) BISWANATH DUBEY. 

( Sd .) KS . CAMPBELL - PURL 
MO . & A .C . 

(Sd .) KSC 
Algunonts to continue. 
( Sd ) K , S. c. 

[No. LR . 3 ( 165 ).] 


New Delhi, the 11th April 1983 
8 . R . O . 683 . -- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award in 
a dispute between the Punjab National Bank Limited and its workinen . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK DISPUTES) 

AT BOMBAY. 
PRESENT : 
Shri S . Panchapagesa Sastry . 

Shri Gurbachan Singh , 

Versus 

The Punjab National Bank Ltd . 
Serial No . 9 in Schedule Il to the Government of India , Ministry of Labour Noti, 
fication No . S . R . O . 636 , dated 31st March 1952. 

AWARD 
This is one of the disputes referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under the 
Government oĽ India . Ministry of Labour Notification No . S . R . O . 636 , dated 31st 
March 1952 , J4 appears in the schedule as Serial No. 9 and tho nature of the dis 
pute as set out therein is as follows: 

" Withholding of Allowance" . 
This was one of the disputes originally referred to the All India Industrial 
Tribunal ( Bank Disputes) Bombay under the Government of Indiu , Ministry of 
Labour Notification No. S . R . O . 42 , dated 8th January 1952 , and as such totice was 
issued in the first instance by that Tribunal by registered post on 13th February 
1952 to the concerned workman calling upon him to file a statement of his case 
on or before 29th February 1952 . The notice was returned to the office unserved . 
After reference to this Tribunal a second notice was issued by registered post on 
13th November 1952 to the workman calling upon him to Ale a statement of his 
case on or before 1st December 1952 . This was also returned to the office unserved . 
A reference to the proceedings before the Sen Tribunal showed that when the 
matter appeared before them they did not consider it necessary to give any direc 
tion in view of the Bank promising to see the record of the workman and pay him 
the allowance if it hai not been paid already . The Bank was asked by our letter 
dated 9th March 1953, whether the Bank took any further action in the matter 
and whether the dispute still existed . The Bank has now written to say that the 
reconciliation allowance due to the workman was paid to him after looking into 
his record as promised by the Bank and that no dispute appears to be existing 
between him and the Bank . 

In these circumstances no useful purpose is served in keeping this matter still 
pending. I therefore pass an award that no orders are necessary . 
BOMBAY ; 

(Sd .) S . PANCHAPAGESA SASTRY, Sole Member . 
The 20th March 1953 . 


- 


[No . LR - 100 ( 16 ):1 

P . S . EASWARAN , Under Secy . 
PRINTED IN INDIA EY TIE MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED AY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELĄ . 1954 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. . . 


- 


- 


. . 


- 


. - 


- . - . . - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. - 


- 


M 


. 


U 


. 


