REGISTERED No. D. 222 


Wm @asette 



of inbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 1*| NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes cf India Extraordinary were published veto the 27th February, 
1959 — 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


30 S. O. 439, dated 21st Fcbuiary, Ministry of Food and Authorizing ! be Secretary to the 
1959. Agriculture. Government of Punjab in the 

Food and Supplies Depart- 
ment, to determine the average 
market rate of wheat in any 
locality in Punjab State. 

3t S. O. 48S, dated 27th February, Cabinet Secretariat. President's Order that the Partition 
1939- Secretariat shall cease to exist 

from 1st March, 1959. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days ol the date of issue, of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 


New Delhi, the 24 th February 1959 

S.O. 489. — In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (6) of section 116A of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and in continuation of its notification 
No 82/284/57/186, dated the 27th August, 1958, published in the Extraordinary 


5*7 



Jl8 THE GA/ETTF, OF TNDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PIIAI.GUNA 16, 1880 [Part It 


issue of the Gazette of India, dated the 5th September, 1958 and also in the 
Uttar Pradesh Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the, t2th September, 
1958 under section 106 of the said Act, the Election Commission heteby publishes 
the judgment dated the 10th December, 1958, of the High Court of Judicature 
at Allahabad delivered on the appeal filed before that Court by Shri Shr, Krishna 
Agarwal against the order dated the 6th August, 1958, of the Election Tribunal, 
Kanpur, in Election Petition No. 284 of 1957. 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD 


Civil Side 


Appellate Jurisdiction 
Dated Allahabad, the 10th day of December. 1958, 
Present 

The Hon’blc M L. Chaturvedi — Judge. 


First Appeal No. 382 of 1958 


First Appeal against the judge of Sri S. D. Singh, District Judge, acting as the 
member of the Election Tribunal, Kanpur, dated 6th August, 1958, in Election 
Petition No, 284 of 1957. 


Sri Sri Krishna Agarwal — Petitioner-Appellant. 


Versus 


Sri S M. Banerji — Respondent. 

BY THE COURT 

Delivered by Hon’ble Chaturvedi. J. 

This is an appeal undei section 116-A of the Representation of the People Act 
(Act No XLIII) of 1951 as amended by Act XXVII of 1956. 

The appeal arises under the following circumstances; Elections were to be 
held to fill a seat from the Kanpur Parliamentary Constituency No. 331. Nomina- 
tion papers were to be (lied between 19th January 1957 and 29th Januaiy, 1957. 
A number of persons lilcd nomination papers including the respondent Sri S. M. 
Banerji and one Suraj Prasad Awasthi. II is not necessary to mention the names 
of all the other persons who filed their nomination papers. The scrutiny was 
held on the 1st February 1957 as a result of which all the nomination papers 
were accepted. It may be stated here that no objection was taken at the time 
of the scrutiny to the nomination paper of the respondent. The votes were polled 
on the 6th March 1957 and the result was declared on the 13th March 1957. The 
respondent received the largest number of votes and he was declared as the duly 
elected candidate, on the 13th March 1957. The appellant, who is an elector in 
the constituency, then submitted an election petition to the Election Commission 
which was forwarded for trial and disposal to Sri S. D. Singh, District Judge of 
Kanpur who was appointed Election Tribunal. A number of grounds were 
taken in the petition which was contested by the respondent only. The Election 
Tribunal decided all the points against the appellant and it dismissed the election 
petition. Hence this appeal 

In the appeal before us we are concerned only with the points all of which 
arise out of the same facts. The facts may first be stated before stating the points. 
The respondent was employed as a Supervisor A Grade in the Government 



Sfc. 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE Ot INDIA : MARCH 7. I959/PHAI.GUNA 16, 1880 519 


Ammunition Factory at' Kirki and he was dismissed from service on the 24th 
January 1956, but not tor corruption or disloyalty to the State. The respondent 
filed his nomination paper within the time allowed, but it was not accompanied 
by a certificate from the Election Commission as enjoined by section 33(3) of the 
Act. No objection was taken to his nomination and the Returning Officer 
accepted it without making any enquiry under section 36 of the Act Subsequently, 
on tnc 25th August 1957, the respondent obtained the necessary certificate from 
the Election Commission. The main question raised before the Tribunal was 
that the nomination paper of the respondent had been improperly accepted by 
the Returning Officer. The Election Tribunal has decided this question against 
the. appellant on the interpretation of the pleadings and on a finding that the 
pleadings were defective. Before it delivered its judgment, applications for 
amendment of the relevant paragraphs in the election petition were filed before 
it and it dismissed those applications The questions raised by the appellant 
before us arts that the amendment applications were wrongly refused, that even 
as the election petition stood without the amendment it contained sufficient aver- 
ment of facts to make out a ground under section 1 00 ( l ) (d ) 1 1 ). In the alter- 
native it was said that it made out a ground under section 100(1 )(d)(iv). 

Learned counsel for the respondent urged before us that even jf the Election 
Tribunal was wrong in refusing to amend the relevant paragraphs of the election 
petition, no useful purpose would be served by considering this question now, 
because in any case, it is not possible to hold that the nomination paper of the 
respondent was improperly accepted. The argument was that no objection having 
been raised before the Returning Officer as to the validity of the nomination 
paper of the respondent, it was not open to the Election Tribunal to enter into 
the question -whether as a matter of fact his nomination paper had been wrongly 
accepted or not. Mr. Sadhan Chandra Gupta, learned counsel for the respondent, 
raised a new point before us today that section 33(3) of the Representation of the 
People Act is inconsistent with Article 14 of the Constitution and it is, therefore, 
a void piece of legislation. 

We propose first to consider the question whether the order of the Election 
Tribunal refusing to allow amendments was a correct order. We may refer to 
a few facts and some relevant provisions of law. Paragraph 5 of tlie election 
petition contains the grounds on which it was claimed that the election of the 
respondent should be declared void Paragraph 5(a) (b) and (c) raised the 
question that in spite of the dismissal of the respondent by the Government, he 
continued to be m Government service till the date of the dismissal of his writ 
petition and was thus disqualified from seeking election to the Parliament. The 
allegation is on the face of it without any substance. The respondent was dis- 
missed on the 24th January, 1956 and he filed a writ petition m the High Court 
against his dismissal. No interim stay order was issued in the petition staying 
the operation of the order of dismissal. The order of dismissal thus clearly 
stood on the date when the nomination paper was filed, and it could not be said 
that the respondent was in the employment of the Government on the date he 
filed his nomination paper. Subsequently he withdrew his writ petition. We 
need not go further into the matter because learned counsel ior the appellant has 
not challenged the correctness of the order of the Election Tribunal on this point. 
The important paragraphs are paragraphs 5(d) and 5(i). Before referring to 
them we may briefly state that sub-paragraphs (e) (f) and (j) paragraph No. 5 
were ordered to be deleted by the Election Tribunal and Sub-paragraph (g) made 
reference to the commission of corrupt practices decision on which has gone 
against the appellant and the appellant has not again challenged the correctness 
of the order nor has he challenged the correctness of the order with respect to 
the decision concerning the allegation in sub-paragraph (h). We are thus loft 
only with sub-paragraphs (d) and (i). Sub-paragraphs (d) and (i) m the original 
petition stood as follows: 

“(d) That apart from the above mentioned reasons the nomination paper 
of the respondent was also improperly accepted by Lhe Returning 
Officer, inasmuch as, the respondent having been dismissed from 
Government Service did not obtain a certificate in the prescribed 
manner from the Election Commission to the effect that he had not 
been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the State.” 

4* 4* 44 44 44 

“(i) That the provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1951 were 
not complied with by the respondent as required U/S 9 Clause 3 of 
the Representation of the People Act.” 



520 THE GAZETTE Ol INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, i880 [Part II 


On the 17th July 1957, an application wag made on behalf of the appellant for 
the amendment of both the sub-paragraphs. In paragraph (i) the only amend- 
ment sought was that instead of figure 9 figure 33 might be substituted. In para- 
graph (d) the amendment sought was that it might be made clear that the nomi- 
nation paper of the respondent was not accompanied by a certificate when it was 
presented before the Returning Officer, and that the improper acceptance of thei 
nomination paper being that of the returned candidate, there was a presumption 
that thei result of the election had been materially affected by the acceptance of 
the nomination paper. Subsequently another application was made on the 3rd 
August 1957 praying for the amendment of the application for amendment made 
on the 17th July 1957, by substituting a shorter paragraph that which was 
sought to be substituted by the application dated 17th July 1957. The application 
of thei 3rd August 1957 is that at the end of paragraph 5(d) the following be added 
in the petition: 


‘and such a certificate did not accompany the nomination paper of ihe 
respondent and the acceptance of his nomination paper materially 
affected the result of the election.” 


The same day an application was filed on behalf of the respondent praying that 
sub-paragraphs (d) and (i) were too vague and they should be deleted as being 
vague, indefinite and irrelevant”. On the 12th August 1957, the appellant filed 
a reply to the application of the respondent dated the 3rd August 1957 denying 
that the allegations in paragraph 5(d) and (i) were vague and liable to be struck 
off. On the 12th August, 1957 the Court passed an order rejecting both the appli- 
cations filed by the appellant for the amendment of sub-paragraphs (d) and (l) 
of paragraph 5, one of which was filed on the 17th July 1957 and the other 
on the 3rd August 1957. The application filed by thei respondent on the 3rd 
August for deletion of certain paragraphs was decided by the Tribunal on the 
12th February 1958 The Tribunal held that the particulars given in paragraph 
5(d) were sufficient and that the question whether they made out a ground for 
declaring the election to be void was a different matter which would be considered 
in due course. The respondent, on that date withdrew the objection with respect 
to sub-paragraph ( 1 ) that it was vague and indefinite. He withdrew his objection 
with respect to some of tho other sub-paragraphs also with which we are not 
concerned. The Tribunal asked for further particulars in respect of certain 
others, which again need not be considered. There were then certain other pro- 
ceedings with respect to thei amended sub-paragraph (h). With that paragraph 
also we are not concerned in this appeal, because learned counsel for tho appellant 
has not challenged the findings of the Tribunal with respect to the allegations 
contained in sub-paragraph (h). 


Now Mr. S. C. Kharc, learned counsel for the appellant, state that he with- 
draws his prayer made before the Election Tribunal for the amendment of sub- 
paragraph (i) of the election petition also. There then remains only the question 
whether the Election Tribunal wrongly refused to permit amendment of sub- 
paragraph (d) of the election petition. The order of the Tribunal rejecting the 
applications for amendment filed by the appellant was passed on the 12th August 
1957 as already staled, and we. therefore have to consider the correctness of that, 
order m so far as it concerns paragraph 5(d) of the election petition. 


We may slate that m the written statement filed by the respondent, the 
respondent denied thut ha was dismissed from Government service for corruption 
or disloyalty and he further averred that no objection was taken to his nomination 
at the time of the scrutiny of the nomination paper. The Tribuna] framed issues 
Nos. 3, 4 and 9, with respect to the allegations contained in paragraph 5(d) and (i), 
and decided those issues against the appellant. He naturally gave a decision 
against the appellant while deciding issues 3. 4 and 9 because 'he had disallowed 
the applications made for amendment of those sub-paragraphs. The Tribunal, 
however, added another ground while deciding the election petition which was 
to the effect that assuming that paragraph 5(d) was amended, it would not in any 
way help the appellant because no objection having been taken to the. nomination 
paper till the time that it was accepted by the Returning Officer, the petitioner 
could n'ot take the ground in the election petition that the nomination paper of 
the respondent had been wrongly accepted. 



■Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16. 1880 521 


Before proceeding to consider the order of the 12th August 1967 we may reftr 
to certain provisions of the Representation of the People Act which are relevant 
to the present enquiry, Section 7(f) is to the effect that a person shall be dis- 
qualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parlia- 
ment or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State 

“if, having held any office under the Government of India or the Govern- 
ment of any State or under the Crown in India or under the Govern- 
ment of an Indian State, he has, whether before or after the com- 
mencement of the Constitution, been dismissed for corruption or 
disloyalty to the State, unless a period of five years has elapsed since 
his dismissal.” 

Section 9(3) is to the effect that if any question is raised as to whether a person 
was disqualified under section 7(f), the production of a certificate issued in the 
prescribed manner by the Election Commission that such person has not been 
dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the State shall be conclusive proof that 
he is not disqualified under that clause Section 33(3) is to the effect that where 
a candidate is a person who has been dismissed from Government service and a 
period of five years has not elapsed since the* dismissal, such person shall not be 
duly nominated as a candidate unless his nomination paper is accompanied by a 
certificate issued in the prescribed manner by the Election Commission that he 
has not been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the State. 

Sub-section (2) of section 36 casts a duty on the Returning Officer to examine 
the nomination papers and decide all objections which may be made to any 
nomination. He may reject any nomination paper on the grounds mentioned in 
the sub-section, One of these grounds given under clause (b) is that there has 
been a failure to comply with any of the provisions of section 33 or section 34 
beeping the above provisions of law in view, we have to see whether any ground 
for declaring the election of the respondent to be void was taken by the 
appellant m paragraph 5(d) of the election petition. 

The law on the question of permissible amendments has been laid down by the 
Supreme, Court in the case of Harish Chandra Bajpai V. Triloki Singh (A.I.R. 
1957 S.C. 444). Their Lordships have summarised the result of the discussion 
of the different points raised before them in paragraph 23 of the report which 
runs as follows: 


“The result of the foregoing discussion may thus be summed up: 

(1) Under section 83 (3j the Tribunal has power to allow particulars in 

respect of illegal or corrupt practices to' be amended provided the 
petition itself specifics the grounds or charges, and the power extends 
to permitting new instances to be given. 

(2) The Tribunal has power under O. 6 R 17 to order amendment of a 

petition, but that power cannot be exercised so as to permit new 
grounds or charges to be raised or to so alter its character as to 
make it in substance a new petition, if a fresh petition on those 
allegations will be barred.” 


It would thus appear that as far as old section 83(3) was concerned, it confessed 
a power on the Tribunal to allow the particulars in respect of illegal or corrupt 
practices to be amended. With that portion we are not concerned. The Supreme 
Court has also held that apart from section 83(3), the Tribunal had a power 
under Order 6 rule 17 of the Code of Civil Procedure to allow the amendment 
of an election petition. There were, however, two circumstances in which the 
amendment could not be allowed. They were (1) that the amendment should 
not be such as to permit any new ground or charges (o be raised or (2) to so 
alter the character of Iho election petition as to make it a new petition, if a 
fresh petition on those allegations would be barred by time on the date the 
application for amendment had been made. It may further be stated that the 
main object of insisting on the pleadings being clear is that the other party 
may have proper notice of the ground of attack which he has to meet. The 
pleadings are not to be scrutinised with meticulous care and the form is not 
of importance. The important thing is whether in substance the petition con- 
tains the particular ground of attack or not; Keeping in view the above prin- 
ciples which are well established, we may now consider whether the original 



'22 


THE GAZE I IF. OI' INDIA: MARCH 7 , 1'JIO/PHM.GUN \ 115, 1880 


[P'.ri II 


sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph 5 contains any ground and, if so, what? and 
whether the application for amendment could be allowed for a new ground was 
sought to be raised in the garb of an amendment. 

We have already quoted paragraphs 5(d) of the election petition. It clearly 
says that apart from the reasons mentioned before-hand, the nomination paper 
of the respondent was improperly accepted by the Returning Officer because 
the respondent, having been dismissed from Government service, had not obtain- 
ed a certificate in the prescribed manner from the Election Commission. The 
certificate was to be to the effect that the respondent had not been dismissed 
for corruption or disloyalty to the State. A reading of the sub-paragraph would 
clearly show that the appellant was taking the ground that the nomination paper 
of the respondent had been improperly accepted by the Rctumin ' Offir < r and 
the impropriety consisted in the fact that though the respondent nad been dis- 
missed iiom Government service and though he had not obtained a certificate 
from the Election Commission, Ins nomination paper was still accepted. The 
ground in our opinion would tail under section 100 ( 1) (d) (1) , under which the 
ground mentioned is that the result of the election had been materially effected, 
by improper acceptance of any nomination. Tile necessary words “impropei 
acceptance of nomination” weie used and it was further alleged that the res- 
pondent had not obtained the ceititlcatc which he was to obtain from the Election 
Commission. 

Learned counsel for the respondent has contended that the wprds used in 
sub-paragraph <d) arc that the icspondent did not “obtain a certificate” and 
not that the “certificate did not accompany the nomination paper”. The argu- 
ment is that simply saying lhat he had not obtained the certificate would not 
be sufficient for showing that it had not accompanied the nomination paper, 
becacse it ma> be that the proposer of the respondent may have obtained the 
certificate or the respondent’s counsel or somebody else may have obtained it. 
The averment in the paragraph only is that the respondent had not obtained 
the certificate and this is not a sufficient averment that the certificate did not 
accompany the nomination paper. It is tiue that the word ‘obtained’ is not the 
word thal has been used m section 33(3) and it may also be possible that the 
proposer of a candidate or his counsel may have obtained the necessary certi- 
ficate from the Election Commission. But the appellant had stated in paragraph 
3 of the petition that all the candidates including the respondent filed their 
nomination papers. It is true that even if the nomination paper had been filed, 
by the proposer it mighl have been said that the respondent had filed it through 
the proposer. But on the proved facts of this case we know that it was the 
respondent himself who had actually filed the nomination paper. The nomi- 
nation paper that has been filed bears the endorsement that the respondent 
presented it before the Returning Officer. The appellant is presumed to know 
the fact and the respondent also must be knowing it. The parties therefore 
very well knew that it was the respondent who had filed the nomination paper 
and, if the respondent had not even obtained the certificate, it was obvious that 
it could not have accompanied the nomination paper. After having stated that 
the respondent had filed the nomination paper and that he had not obtained 
the certificate, the appellant may well have thought that there was no point 
in saying fui thcr that the certificate did not accompany the nomination paper. 
When the respondent had not obtained it at all there was no question of the 
certificate accompanying the nomination paper. 

Learned counsel for the respondent contended that while considering the 
pleadings, the facts which, were subsequently proved should not be taken into 
consideration. But we do not subscribe to this proposition. The object of the 
pleadings is to give notice to the other party of the ground of attack. When 
both the parties knew the particular state of affairs to have existed, the plead- 
ings can be read in the light of the known facts of the case. The Tribunal has, 
after mentioning the above point made reference also to the fact that the alle- 
gations contained in sub-paragraph (d) related to the disqualification of the 
respondent, We do not consider it possible to accept that suggestion, because 
the ground taken very clearly is that the nomination paper of the respondent 
was improperly accepted. The question of disqualification of Ihr respondent 
was quite a different matter. 

The other, serious objection that has been token by learned counsel for the 
respondent in arguments is that there is no averment in this sub-paragraph to 
the effect that this improper acceptance of the nomination paper materially 
affected the result of the election. It is true that the complete ground for set- 
ting aside the election on such an allegation is that the improper acceptance of 



Stc. 3 (ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA': MARCH 7, 1939/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


523 


the nomination paper materially affected the result of the election, and the sub- 
paragraph is detective inasmuch as it does not mention the fuither fact that 
the result of the election was materially affected by the improper acceptance. 
But on the facts of this case the position must have been so obvious to all con- 
cerned that the omission to state the fact that the result had been materially 
affected could not make any difference. It had been stated in paragraph No. 4 
of the election petition that the respondent had been declared elected to the 
seat. If the nomination paper was improperly acceptance affected the result, 
as the improper acceptance of the nomination paper is of the returned candi- 
date himself. If any authority for the proposition were needed we may refer 
to an observation of the Supreme Court in the case of Vashisht Naiain Sharma v. 
Dev Chandra (A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 513). The observation is that where the person 
whom nomination paper has been improperly accepted is the returned candi- 
date himself, it may be readily conceded that the result of the election had been 
materially affected in the case. In some cases the omission to mention the words 
“the result of the election has been materially affected” may lead to the con- 
clusion that the ground had not been stated. For instance. If the corrupt 
practice is proved to have been committed by a person without the consent of 
the returned candidate or the election agent and it is not stated that the action 
of such a person materially affected the icsult uf the election, it may be possible 
to hold that a proper ground for setting aside tile election had not been averred. 
But this is not the position in the case before us. The returned candidate being 
himself the person concerning whom it was said that his nomination paper had 
been improperly accepted, it was obvious that this was an irregularity or illega- 
lity materially alleetmg the result of the election. The omission to aver such 
an obvious fact wc think, should not be held to be fatal to the pleadings on the 
point. We do not agree with the view of the Election Tribunal expressed in 
its order dated the 12th August 1957 that the amendment of paragraph 5(d) 
prayed by the appellant, purported to raise a new ground or there it altered 
the nature of the petition so as to make it a diilerent one. We consequently hold 
that it was open to the Election Tribunal to have allowed the application for 
amendment of the sub-paragraph. We also think that the Tribunal should have 
permitted the amendment because the ground of attack had been clearly made 
out and the only mistake committed by the appellant was not to put it in proper 
words. The amendment would have permitted, a proper trial of the ground 
that the appellant had taken. We consequently think that the amendment should 
have been allowed. 

In view of the fact that wc have allowed the application for amendment 
we need not consider the alternative argument ol' learned counsel for the appel- 
late that even as the sub-paragraph originally stood it contained a ground 
contemplated by section 100(1) (d) (i) of the Act. 

As regards the point raised by learned counsel for the respondent that it 
was not necessary to consider whether the amendment should be allowed or not, 
because even if it was allowed, it would not lead to the election being declared 
void on this ground, wo have just been told, while dictating the judgment, that 
Mr. S. N. Dwivcdi withdraws the point and does not want a decision on it at this 
stage. 

There now remains the other point argued by Mr, S. C. Gupta who argued 
the case on behalf of the respondent today. His contention is that section 33(3) 
of the Act is a void piece of legislation inasmuch as it is inconsistent with Art. 14 
of the Constitution, He says that sub-section (3) makes un improper discrimi- 
nation between the Government servants who had been removed or who had 
resigned from service and the Government servants who had been dismissed. 
The Government servants who have rcsignd or who have been removed need 
not attach any certificate from the Election Commissioner along with their nomi- 
nation papers; but the Government servants who have been dismissed have 
been enjoined thal a certificate from the Election Commission that they were 
not dismissed for corruption or disloyalty, must accompany the nomination paper, 
Hei distinguishes the case of Jamuna Prasad Mukhariyav. Lachhi Ram (A.I.R, 
1954 S.C. 688) on the ground that in that case the question was of the curtail- 
ment of the right of freedom of speech which is guaranteed by Art. 19(1) (a) 
of the Constitution. The Supreme Court in that case held that sections 123(5) 
and 124(5) of the unamended Representation of People Act were not ultra Hires 
Art. 19(1') (a) of the Constitution. The said section did not interfere with a 
citizen’s fundamental right of freedom of speech, because those sections do not 
stop a man from speaking but merely prescribe conditions which must be observ- 
ed if he wanted to enter Parliament. Their Lordships observed that the right 
to stand as a candidate for election was not a common law right but was a special 
right created by statute and it could be exercised only on the conditions laid 



5 3 4 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


[Part II 


down by the statute. The chapter on fundamental rights had no bearing on 
a right like this created by the statute, because persons had no fundamental 
right to be elected as members of the Parliament, but if they wanted to be so 
elected they had to observe the conditions. It is true that their Lordships were 
cot considering the applicability of Art. 14 of -the Constitution and a distinction 
can be made between that case and the case before us on that ground. But we 
do not think that in fact any improper discrimination has been created by 
section 33(3). The Legislature has classified Government servants into those 
who had ceased to the Government servants by dismissal and in other ways. 
It is well known that the order of dismissal is always for some serious fault and 
it disentitles a Government servant to seek re-employment under the Govern- 
ment, unless the Government is prepared to condone the fault for which the 
servant was dismissed. The case of removal is different and it does not entail 
any such consequences. A Government servant who has himself resigned can- 
not possibly be placed in worse position than an ordinary citizen. In' the case 
of those Government servants who had been dismissed it was considered neces- 
sary to have some enquiries made beforehand, in order to see whether within 
a period of five years of their dismissal they should be permitted to seek elec- 
tion to the Legislatures of the State. With this object in view the Parliament 
made it obligatory on a Government servant, who had been dismissed within a 
period of five years of the date of the nomination, to obtain a certificate from 
the Election Commission that he had n6t been dismissed for corruption or dis- 
loyalty. Under section 7(f) he had been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty 
he would be disqualified from seeking election. In order to show that he was 
not disqualified in spite of his dismissal he is required to obtain a certificate 
to that effect from the Election Commission, and the Election Commission is not 
likely to grant that certificate unless it is a fact that the dismissal was nor for 
corruption or disloyalty. An enquiry in the case of a Government servant who 
had been dismissed was considered necessary though it was not considered 
necessary in the case of a Government servant who had been removed or who 
resigned from service. The Legislature has made a reasonable classification 
dividing Government servants- into two categories (1) those who had been dis- 
missed and (2) those who had ceased to be Government servants for other 
reasons, The ground of the classification was also connected with the object 
of the enactment. The object of the enactment is to see that undesirable persons 
who have once been found guilty of disloyalty or corruption should not be per- 
mitted to seek election to the Legislatures within a period of five years of their 
dismissal. We consequently think that this objection of learned counsel also 
has no force and we shall not be justified m dismissing the election petition and 
the appeal on the ground that section 33(3) of the Act is a void piece of legis- 
lation. 

We accordingly grant the application made by the appellant on the 3rd of 
August 1957 praying for the addition of a sentence at the end of the existing 
paragraph 5(d). At the end of that paragraph the following sentence shall be 
added.— 


"And such a certificate did not accompany the nomination paper of the 
respondent and the acceptance of his nomination materially affected 
the result of the election.” 

The appeal is allowed and the order of the Election Tribunal dated the 6th 
August 1958 dismissing the election petition filed by the appellant is set aside. 
But in view of what we have said above, the Election Tribunal will now decide 
only the issues that arise out of the averments made in the amended paragraph 
5(d’) of the election petition. It would be open to the Election Tribunal to 
permit the parties to lead evidence in respect of the ground which the amended 
paragraph 5(d) discloses. The respondent will also have a right to file a 
supplementary written statement. 

The costs here and hithertofore shall abide the result of the election petition. 

(Sd.) M.L.C. 
(Sd.) J.N.T. 


The 10 th December, 1958. 


[No. 82/284/57/71.] 



■Src. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


5^5 


S.O. 496,— -Whereas the election of Sardar Surjit Singh Majithia as a 
member of the House of the People from the Tarn Taran constitunecy, has been 
called in question by an election petition duly presented under Part VI of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), by Sardar Dayal Singh, son 
of S. Basant Singh, resident of Fatehabad, Tehsil Tarn Taran, District Amritsar; 

And whereas the Election Tribunal appointed by the Election Commission 
in pursuance of the provisions of section 86 of the said Act, for the trial of the 
said election petition, has. in pursuance of the provisions contained in section 103 
of the said Act, sent a copy of its order in the said election petition to the 
Commission; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 106 of the said Act, 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the said order of the Tribunal. 

ELECTION TRIBUNAL, CHANDIGARH 
Election Petition No. 225 of 1957. 

BEFORE SHRI RAMA PRASAD MOOKERJEE, RETIRED JUDGE OF HIGH 
COURT AT CALCUTTA AND MEMBER. ELECTION TRIBUNAL, CHANDI- 
GARH. 

Sardar Dayal Singh, son of S. Basant Singh, caste Sikh, resident of Fatehabad, 
Tehsil Tarn Taran — Petitioner. 


Versus 

Sardar Surjil Singh Majithia, Deputy Defence Minister, New Delhi — Respon- 
dent. 

Shri Jatinder Vir Gupta — Advocate for the Petitioner. 

Shn Veda Vyas. 

Shri Bal Raj Tuli and 

Shri S. N. Kapahi. 

— Advocates for the Respondent. 

FINAL ORDER 
The 6th November, 1958 

Surjit Singh Majithia was in the general election held in 1957 elected to the 
Parliament from the Tarn Taran Constituency in the District of Amritsar. The 
result of the election was declared on March 10 1957. Dayal Singh, one of the 
unsuccessful candidates, filed on April 23, 1957, this election petition under 
Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act for declaring the election of 
•Surjit Singh Majithia null and void and for directing fresh election according to 
law. 

2. The petitioner had originally impleaded seven respondents. Respondent 
No. 1 was Surjit Singh Majithia. Respondents 2 to 5 contmued to be contesting 
candidates till the last, while the remaining two (Respondents 6 and 7) had 
withdrawn before the poll. 

3. On the first date of hearing before this Tribunal (July 22, 1957), the 
Respondent Surjit Singh Majithia filed his written statement. Paragraph 1 of 
the Preliminary objection in the Written Statement filed on that date was to 
the effect that Respondents 2 to 7 had been wrongly and unnecessarily joined as 
parties and as such their names should be struck off, Their presence would 
merely embarrass the trial and cause prejudice. The Petitioner also prayed 
for leave to strike out the names of the 6 candidates making consequential amend- 
ment hi Paragraph 3 of the petition. This prayer also was not opposed by the 
said Respondent and was allowed. After this order had been passed, on the 
next date of hearing a preliminary objection -was thereafter raised on behalf 
of the Respondent to the effect that as unnecessary parties had originally been 
impleaded by the Petitioner, the petition should be' deemed not to have been in 
conformity with Section 82 of the Representation of the People Act and should 
accordingly be dismissed in limine. This objection was over-ruled. The grounds 
for such rejection will be given in this judgment under issue No. 1. 

Unless otherwise indicated reference in this judgment if made about the 
respondent without any serial number, is to be taken to be to the original 
Respondent No. 1 Surjit Singh Majithia. 




526 tHF GA/I- I IK OI' INDIA: MARCH 7, 1979/Pt 1ALGENA lb, 1 S 8 O [P\m I| 


4. On the second date of hearing the Petitioner had asked for leave to furnish 
further and better particulars by amending portions of the Schedules attached 
to the Petition. This was objected to by the Respondent. After hearing both 
parties the prayer was allowed in part on September 6, 1957 [thei said order 
appears in Anne.rure I to this judgment] . Schedule A to the Petition remains 
as originally filed. Certain changes were permitted in the other Schedules. For 
easy and convenient reference and on the prayer of the Respondent fresh copies 
of the Schedules to the Pelition, in conformity with the directions contained 
in order dated September 6, 1957, was directed to be filed by the Petitioner. This 
was done on November 6 following after copies had been served on the Respon- 
dent, Opportunity had also been given to the Respondent to file an additional 
written statement. The Respondent chose to file a consolidated written state- 
ment incorporating points raised in the original written statement and additional 
defences us it was found necessary alter the order dated September 6. This 
written statement also was filed on November 0, 1957, 

5. The two following preliminary issues were on the prayer of the parties 
thereafter raised and heard: — 

Preliminary Issues — 

(V) Have the petition and the Schedules been properly verified? If not, 
what is the effect? 

(2) Is the petition alongvvith the amended schedules or any part thereof 
vague and indefinite? If so, should any part of the petition be 
struck off? 

G During the hearing of these preliminary issues it was pointed out on behalf 
of the Respondent that it had now transpired that the revised schedules as filed 
by the Petitioner on November 6, 1957, purporting to be in conformity with 
my order dated September 6, was not really so and they should be corrected. 
This objection wus dealt with in my order No. 14, dated February 10, 1958 and 
some of the items in Schedule C to the Election Petition were further considered 
(Order made Annexure II to this judgment). 

7. The two preliminary issues were also disposed of by another order passed 
on the same date (Annexure III to this judgment). Portions of the Election 
petition wci e deleted and the verifications were allowed to be put right. 

8. After hearing the parties, the following nine issues were settled on the 
basis of the pleadings as they stood after the orders referred to above: — 

Issue No. 1. — The petitioner having originally impleaded respondents 2 to 
7 and whose names had been expunged subsequently as being un- 
necessary parties, is the petition to be deemed not to be in confor- 
mity with the provisions of Section 82 of the Representation of the 
People Act? If so, is the petition liable to be dismissed? 

Issue No. 2. — WuS Ram Chand in the pay of the Public Relations Office 
in the Punjab State’s department and was he a polling agent of 
respondent as alleged in paragraph 4 read with item I of Schedule C 
of the Election Petition? 

Issue No. 2(b).— If so, did this offend against Section 123(7) of the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act? 

Issue No. 2(cj. — If so, did this materially affect the election of the respon- 
dent? 

Issue No. 3. — Was the name of the respondent wrongly written on the 
ballot boxes as alleged in paragraph 9 of the Election Petition? If 
so, was this against law and did this materially affect the election of 
the petitioner? 

Issue No. 4.— Was there not sufficient publicity given to the symbols assign- 
ed to the different candidates as required under the rules? If so, did 
this materially affect the result of the election? 

Issue No. 5. — Are the accounts submitted by the respondent wrong, false 
and underestimated as alleged in sub-paragraphs (i) and (iii) of 
paragraph 8 of the Election Petition taken alcingwith items (i). (ii), 
(iv) and (v) of Schedule B annexed to the petition? If so, 
is the election of the respondent liable to be set aside on that 
ground? 



527" 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 1(3. 1880 


Issue No. 6. — Was S. Beant Singh, a Sarpanch as alleged in Item 3 of 
Schedule C to the Election Petition? If so, did this appointment by 
the respondent as a polling agent offend against the provisions of 
Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act? If so, did this 
materially affect the election? 

Issue No. 7.— Did the Respondent threaten the voters mentioned in item 10 
of Schedule C not to vote for the petitioner but vote for him? If 
so, did this materially affect the result of the petitioner’s .election? 

Issue No 8. — Was there a compromise between Ihc Congress High Com- 
mand and Master Tara Singh on behalf of the Akalis not to vote 
against the Congress in return of 23 seats being allowed to the Akalis? 
If so, did such compromise materially affect the result of the elec- 
tion if the same is relevant for consideration in the present proceed- 
ings? 

Is.sin? No. 9 — Is the petitioner entitled to any other relief? 

9. When the Petitioner filed his list of witnesses to bo examined, objection 
was raised by the Respondent about three of them — S. Kahan Singh, S, Gurmcch 
Singh and Shri Jaw aha” Lai Nehru. Such objection was disposed of by order 
No. 21, dated Mai eh 2G, 1958 ( AnnP.rure IV to this judgment) . 

10. The trial has proceeded on the basis of the pleadings as they stand after 
the additions and deletions as under the preliminary ordeis leferred to above. 
Reference to be made hereafter in this judgment to the body of the election 
petition v/ill be, unless specifically mentioned otherwise, to the election petition 
originally filed excluding the Schedules. Schedule A has been directed under 
my order da'cd Feb nary 10 1958 to be deleted For the altered Schedules B 
and C to the petition and the final written statement filed by the Respondent, 
tefercnce will De made to those which were filed on November 6, 1957. 

11. I now proceed to give a short resume of the allegations relevant for a 
decision of the issues now to be decided. 

12. During the last general election held in 1957 for the Parliamentary seat 
from the Tarn Taran constituency the following is the list of candidates who 
were in the field till the last, with the number of votes obtained by each as stated 
by the Respondent and admitted by the Petitioner; — 


Votes polled 


1, Surjit Singh Majithia (Respondent) 

1,29,435 

2. Dalip Singh Tapila 

85,217 

3. Jamna Das Aurora 

17,665 

4. Dalip Singh of Ghariala 

14,905 

5, Dildar Singh 

10,275 

6. Dyal Singh (Petitioner) 

6,356 


Mota Singh and Gurwaryam Sindh, wdio also had been candidates had withdrawal 
on February 4, 1957. The results having been declared on March 10. 1957, the 

present Election Petition w r as filed on April 23, 1957 by Dayal Singh. The 
requisite security deposit under section 117 of the Representation of the People 
Act was duly deposited and the Treasury chalan was filed along with the petition, 

12 The grounds as taken by the Petitioner In support of the prayer and as 
they fall to be decided now — may be grouped as follows:- — 

I. That the Respondent Surjit Singh Majithia had been guilty of corrupt 
practices by obtaining either himself or through his election agent the 
assistance of the two following persons who were alleged to be in the 
servif-e of Government and to be included within the categories men- 
imnerl in sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Representation) of the 
People Act, as polling agents- 

(a) Ram Chand alleged to be in the pay of the Public Relation Office, 
Punjab, was appointed as Polling agent of the Respondent In Polling 
Booth Patti. 



528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Part II 


(b) Beant Singh, Sarpanch of Village Ardhang, Tebsil Ajnala was appoint- 
ed as Polling Agent of the Respondent in Polling Booth Chogawan, 
tehsll Ajnala, 

II. The Return of Election Expenses as filed by the Respondent was wrong, 

false and underestimated in material particulars In as much as: 

(a) the rates of hire of jeeps and lorries were much higher than as shown, 

(b) Langars for the election workers had been run by the Respondent, 

during the election period but the expenses therefor had not been 
Included in the Return of Election Expenses, 

<c) Man Singh, Bachlttar Singh and Mangal Singh had been working for 
the Respondent, but payments to them were not included in the 
Statement of accounts filed as Return of Election Expenses. 

If such items of expenditure were included that would make the expenses 
Incurred by the Respondent exceed the statutory limit of Rs. 25,000/-, 

III. There had been non-compliance with some of the provisions of the 

Representation of the People Act and Rules and orders thereunder in 
the following respects — 

(a) The name of the Respondent as appearing on the Ballot Boxes was 
wrong — Sardar Surjit Singh Majithia Instead of Sardar Surjit 

Singh only. 

<b) Sufficient publicity had not been given to the symbols assigned to the 
different candidates. Such irregularities had materially affected the 
result of the election. 

IV. The Respondent had threatened petitioner’s voters in the polling camps 

of Fatehabad and Khawaspur not to vote for the latter and to vote 
for the former. The result of the election had been materially 
affected thereby. 

V. There had been a compromise between the Congress High Command and 

Master Tara Singh on behalf of the Akalis not to vote against the 
Congress in return of 23 seats allowed to the Akalis, Such compromise 
had materially affected the result of the election. 

13. The defences raised on behalf of the Respondent were in the main — 

I. (a) It is denied that Ram Chand was either a person In the service of the 

Government, coming within the mischief of Section 123(7) of the 
Representation of the People Act or a polling agent as alleged. Even 
if the allegations be proved no corrupt practice was committed. 

(b) Even if Beant Singh is proved to have been a Sarpanch, such an office 
was not included within Section 123(7) of the Representation of the 
People Act. llis appointment as a polling agent would neither in- 
fringe any law nor constitute any corrupt practice. 

II. (a) The Return of Election Expenses as filed by the Respondent was 

correct and accurate. The Respondent had not actually incurred any 

expenditure by way of hire charges for the jeep and weapon carriers 
used during the election. They had been made available to the 
Respondent free of all charges by Saraya Sugar Factory which was a 
family concern of the Respondent subsequently formed into a Joint 
Stock Company, The national rates as given In the Return are the 
reasonable rates for hire of such vehicles. To show the bonafldes of 
the Respondent the notional hire of such vehicles had been shown 
in the return. Even if such notional figures were included within the 
total, it would not be in excess of the maximum fixed under the 
statute and the Rules thereunder. 

(b) The opening and running of Langars as alleged are denied, 

(c) It is denied that Man Singh was a paid worker of the Respondent, or 

that any payment had been made to him, Bachittar Singh and Mangal 
Singh are not even known to the Respondent or his Election Agent 
and it is denied that they had worked for the Respondent during the 
election or that Mangal Singh had been working on a pay of Rs. 100/- 
per month. 



Sec. 3 (ii>1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : KfARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


Ilf, (a) The name of the Responde.nl as appearing on the Ballot Boxes was 
the same as in the electoral roll. 

(b) The allegation about the non-publication of the symbols is denied, 

IV. The Respondent denies the allegations made about threatening the 

voters as alleged. 

V. The alleged compromise between the Congress High Command and 

Master Tara Singh is dented and it is contended that the allegation, 
does not constitute the commission of any corrupt practice and is 
irrelevant for fin enquiry in the present proceedings. 

Issue No. (1). 

14. As already indicated the Petitioner had in the original petition impleaded 
not only the successful candidate Surjit Singh Majlthia, but 6 other candidates as 
Respondents 2 to 7, amongst the later group being persons who had either been 
unsuccessful in the election or hud withdrawn from the contest. The Respondent 
had in the original written statement filed on July 22, 1957, taken the objection 
that “Respondents 2 to 7 have been wrongfully and unnecessarily joined as parties, 
and as such their names should be struck off. Their presence merely embarras the ■ 
trial and cause prejudice’’. 

15. The Petitioner on the same day when the written statement had been filed 
prayed for the deletion of the names of Respondents Nos. 2 to 7 from the cause 
title with consequential amendment in paragraph 3 of the election petition. The 
Respondent’s counsel did not oppose the prayer and the same was allowed on July 
25, 1957. On the next date of hearing, namelv, August 19 1957 objection was raised 
on behalf of the Respondent to the effect that the inclusion of such unnecessary- 
parties in the original petition had the effect of making the petition not being in 
conformity with Section 82 of the Representation of the People Act with the result 
that the petition was liable to be dismissed under sub-section (3) of Section 90 of 
the said Act. Such an objection bad subsequently been Included in the revised 
written statement filed on November 6, 1957. 

16. There is no substance in this objection. Section 82 of the Representation, 
of the People Act lays down who are necessary parties in an election petition. 
Clause (a) of Section 82 of the Act makes it clear that when there is the prayer 
for a simple declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates 
is void only ail the returned candidates are to be made parties, On the other hand, 
if in addition to the above prayer the Petitioner further prays for a declaration 
lhat he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected "all the contesting 
candidates other than the petitioner" must be joined as Respondents. 

17. The present election petition falls under the first category above mentioned. 
The Petitioner need, therefore, have made only the returned candidate a party 
respondent. He had, however, impleaded the other contesting candidates. Was 
this a fatal defect or a mere surplusage? 

18. Section 85 of the same Act lays down that the Election Commission on 
receiving the election petition shall dismiss it “if the provisions of Section 81, or 
Section 82 or Section 117 have not been complied with". Similarly in sub-section 
(3) of Section 90 of the said Act, it is provided— 

‘‘The Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with 
the provisions of Section 81, Section 82 or Section 117 notwithstanding 
that it has not been dismissed bv the Election Commission, India, 
under Section 85”. 

Reliance is placed on behalf of the Respondent on the penal provisions of sub- 
section (3) of Section 90 and It is submitted that the penalty clause Is -attracted 
either when all the necessary parties are not impleaded or when any party who is 
unnecessary is Included. 

19. In J agannath v. Jaswant Singh. 9 E.E.R. 231 the Supreme Court was called 
upon to consider whether failure to implead all the parties necessary as under 
Section 82 of the Act was a fatal defect entailing a dismissal of the petition. In 
view of the fact that under the then (pre-1950) provisions of Section 90(4) of that 
Act no penalty was provided for non-compliance with Section 82 the election peti- 
tion could not be dismissed in limine. The Court reserved its final opinion on. 
matters specifically covered by Sections 81, 83 and 117 of the Act. For determining 
whether a particular provision was manadatory or directory one has to examine- 



'530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Part II 


whether any penalty was provided for its non-compliance and also whether there 
was a general power of the Court to cure the defect At the time when the above 
decision was made, Section 82 was not mentioned either in the penal Section 85 or 
in the analogous provision which is now sub-section (3) of Section 90 r which was 
then sub-scction (4) of the same Section] . The unamended provisions before 1956 
provided for the dismissal of the petition by the Election Commission (under 
Section 85) and by the Election Tribunal under Section 90(4), if the provisions of 
Section 81 or 8,3 or 117 had not been complied with. After the 1956 amendment 
Section 82 has been substituted for Section 83 in the penal provisions of what is 
now Section 90(3) of the Act. The present provisions as in Section 85 and Section 
90(3) are, according to the test laid down by the Supreme Court, of a mandatory 
character. While interpreting the implications of the expression “contesting candi- 
dates" as appearing in clause (a) of Section 82 after the 1956 amendment the 
Supreme Court has m Kamaraja Nadar v. Kunju Tevctr, Mariappam v. V. R. 
Nedunchezhiyam (Civil Appeals 763 and 764 of 1957) recently on April 22, 1958 
laid down that all candidates, excluding those who had withdrawn under Section 
37(1) of the Act are to be included in the category of Respondents in the 
contingency referred to in the first part of clause (a) of Section 82 and non- 
compliance thereof will entail dismissal of the petition under Section 90(3) of the 
same Art. A candidate who has given notice of retirement from the contest under 
Section 55A(2) of the Act continues to be a ‘‘contesting candidate” under Section 
90(3') of the Act. In this case also the point in issue was the effect of a nonjoinder 
of necessary parties. The Court was not considering the consequences of a mis- 
joinder of unnecessary parties. II was also held that the defect in the constitution 
of the suit due to non-joinder could not be made good bv adding the absent parties 
through the exercise of the powers of amendment of pleadings. 

20. The only question, therefore, which need engage our attention is that whether 
the rigours of the provisions of Section 90(3) arc equally applicable in the case of 
a misjoinder as in the case of a non-iomder of necessary parties. In the lease of a 
non-joinder of a necessary party, the application itself is not properly frhmed and 
the Court is not in a position to grant the relief as the application Is not properly 
constituted. In the case of a misjoinder of parties, in my view the defect is not 
fatal to the maintainability of the application. In such a case the Tribunal can 
grant relief — if the necessary facts and conditions are satisfied against the proper 
and necessary party and dismiss the petition against those unnecessarily implead- 
ed. In the present case no relief had been prayed for against those originally 
impleaded as Respondents 2 to 7 No doubt the provisions contained in Order I 
Rule 10(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure entitle a Civil Court to strike out the 
names ol persons improperly joined and to allow the suit to pioceed. Is this power 
affected by any specific provisions on the special Election Law as in the Represen- 
tation of the People Act? The provisions contained in Rule 9 of Order I of the 
Code of Civil Procedure, at least so far as they refer to the rectification of a defect 
of nonjoinder are not applicable to proceedings under the Representation of the 
People Act. Nor are the provisions as in Order 23 rule 1 of the Code permitting 
the petitioner to withdraw or abandon a part of his claim attracted after an election 
petition is presented to the Election Commissioner. In a mati Malappa Basappa 
v. Desdi Basarraj Ayyappa. [Civil appeal No. 76 ol 1958 before the Supreme 
Court 1 . Under sub-section (1) of Section 90 of the Representation of the People 
Act the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure applicable to the trial of suit can 
be attracted always subject to the provisions of the same Act and of rules there- 
under. 


21, Reference was made by the Supreme Court in both the cases above cited to 
the following principles enunciated in Jagan Nath v. J as want Singh 1954 S.C.R. 895 
“An election contest is not an action at Law or a suit in equity but is a purely 
statutory proceeding unknown to the Common Law and that the Court possess no 
Common Law powers. 

******* 

“It is always to be borne in mind that though the election ol a successful candi- 
date is not to be lightly interfered with, one of the essentials of that Law is also 
to safeguard the, purity of the election process and also to see that the people 
do not get elected by flagrant breaches of that Law- or by eorrupt practices." 

Reliance was also placed on the observations of Morris J. in the Tipperasy 
. case 3 O’mally and Hard Castle Reports 19(23) — 

“A petition is not a suit between two persons but is a proceeding in which 
the constituency itself is the principal party interested" 



531 


'Src. 3 (ii)] TIJE GAZE TTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALCUNA 16, 1880 


22. Although the Supreme Court came to the conclusion in Kamaraja Nadars 
appeal (Supra) that the provisions of Section 90(3) of the Representation of the 
People Act were of a mandatory nature and a Petition was liable to be dismissed 
for non-joinder of the necessary parties, in Civil Appeal 48 of 1958 (M. R. Masani 
v. Election Tribunal , Ranchi) a literal and very strict compliance with the pro- 
visions of section 117 was not insisted upon. It is worthy oi note that the penal 
provisions of Section 90(3) of the Act are attracted for non-compliance with the 
precisions of all the three Sections 81, 82 and 117, For weighty, and. if I may 
say with respect, very rongent reasons, sufficient compliance, and not a literal and 
strict compliance was held to be sufficient in the case of the security deposit under 
section 1 17 of the Act to he in the name of the Secretary of the Commission. Those 
words used in Section 117 were declared to be mearly directory and not manda- 
tory. 

23 By applying the tests adopted by the Supreme Court in regards to the pro- 
visions of Section 117 of this Act I hold that though the provisions of Section 82 
requiring the inclusion of all the “contesting candidates’’ as party respondent in 
the contingency mentioned therein are of a mandatory nature, the addition of 
unnecessary parties does not make the petition not maintainable. There would 
be a sufficient compliance if all the necessary parties are impleaded and even 
though unnecessary parties are included. 

24. This interpretation is not inconsistent with the spirit of this special Act. 
Take the case of an election petition in respect of a double-member constituency. 
Both the elected members are required under section 82 of the Act to be impleaded 
even when the only relief asked for is for declaring the election of one of the two 
returned candidates to be void and on grounds which do not in any way allect 
the other returned candidate. No relief need be prayed for against the other, 
returned candidate. The statute requires both such candidates to be impleaded 
so that the decision may be made in the presence of all the successful candidates. 
Presence of the other candidate does not in any way create any difficulty or defect 
of multifariousness If alongwith such a returned candidate who is not affected 
by the resell* of the proceeding, oven when the petition succeeds as against one 
-of the candidates. If other nominated candidates are also impleaded such addi- 
tional names will not in any way affect the jurisdiction of the Court though there 
may be some defect as to multifariousness- but that cannot be fatal. 

25 In the present case, simultaneously with a prayer made by the Petitioner 
to delete the names of the unnecessary Respondents, the .successful candidate, 
namely the contesting Respondent, also made the same prayer and the Petitioner’s 
application was allowed without opposition In my view the rigours of sub- 
section (3) of Section 90 will not be attracted in the case of misjoinder of parties 
in the same way as in the case of non-joinder of necessary parties. This issue 
is decided in favour of the Petitioner. 

Issues Nos. 2, 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c). 

26. Under issue No 2 we have to determine two questions of fact and if such 
facts are found m favour of the Petitioner, then under the other Issues the question 
will be what would be the legal effect thereof on the election In paragraph 4 of 
the Election Peti'ion read with item 1 of Schedule C, it is alleged that one Ram 
Chand, .son of GopI Chand of Fatehabad though in the pay of the Ppbllc Rela- 
tions Office, Amritsar, had been engaged on behalf of the Respondent as a polling 
agent at polling booth Pat'i. The Respondent denies that Ram Chand was in the 
pay of the Public Relations Office or even if so that he is a Government Officer 
-coming within the mischief of sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Represents' ion 
of the People Act. It is also denied that Ram Chand had either been appointed 
or had acted as a polling agent at Patti. 

27. The Petitioner has examined one Ram Chand son of Gopi Chand of 
Fatehabad as P W -5. He claims to be working in the office of the District Public 
"Relations Officer, Amritsar as a Rural Publicity worker. In ‘he examinatlon-ln- 
chief in answer to question No. 4 he had pleaded his ignorance as to whether the 
Public Relations Officer’s office was a government officer or that the pav received 
b.v him was being drawn from the Public treasury, lie received his salary from 
a clerk in 'he office of the District Public Relations Officer, Amritsar. His duty 
is to publicise government schemes and activities In answer to question No. 12, 
however, as to whether he had acted as a polling agent for Respondent Majlthia, 
during the last election he answered in the negative The Petitioner had called 
for from the Returning Office the form for the anpointment of polling agents 
under which, Bishan Singh, R.W-11 who was the election agent of the Respondent 
had signed 'hat form for polling station Patti. Blshnn Singh RW-11 the Elect- 
ion Agent of the Respondent admitted his signature on this paper to be his (Exb. 



532 THE GAZETTE Ol- INDIA: MARCH 7, 1 909/PHALC U NA Hi, 1.980 [1H rt IF 


P-2) but denied having appointed Ram Ohand by that form. The form had not, 
however, been fully filled in. The blank space where the name of the polling 
agent is to be put in by the candidate or by his election agent was never filled in. 
The signature of the person appointed as polling agent Oust below the signature 
of the election agent making the nomination) or, the polling agent’s signature 
after the declaration signed before the Presiding Officer are illegible scriblings. 
It is significant that this piece of paper with a signature, which is alleged by the 
Petitioner to be that of Ram Chand, was not placed by the Petitioner during the 
examination In chief of his own witness Ram Chand during his examination as 
F.W.-5. The Respondent and his election agent R.W.-l 1 deny that Ram Chand 
had been appointed or that he had acted as a polling agent tor the Respondent. 

It is also significant Ram Chand himself denies in answer to Question 12 that 
he had at all acted as the polling agent of the Respondent. 

28. On such materials it is Impossible to hold that the Petitioner has proved 
that Ram Chand was a polling agent for the Respondent at Patti or that EXB. 
P-2 is the appointment form by which he had been nominated. In this state of 
the evidence, it is not necessary to decide whether Ram Chand had been proved 
to have been a government officer coming within the mischief of sub-section (7) 
of section 123 of the Act Mere allegation in the petition that Ram Chand was 
the polling agent in the face of denial by Ram Chand himself, a witness called 
by the Petitioner and the denial by the Respondent and his election agent does 
not at all prove the Petitioner’s case. It has been criticised by the Petitioner 
that it was within the knowledge of the Respondent to say who was his polling' 
agent at Palti and in that line the Respondent and his agent had been cross 
examined. The onus being on the Petitioner to show that the Respondent had 
engaged a person as a polling agent, who was not entitled to be so appointed, 
it is not open to the Petitioner to find fault with the conduct of Respondent in not 
helping him with necessary materials. Dayal Singh, the Petitioner has no perso- 
nal knowledge about this matter. His source o-f Information about the Polling 
agent at Patti is, as stated by him in answer to question No. 5 that Dalip Singh, 
a communist, candidate for the Parliamentary seat had given him the information 
on which the allegation in the Petition was based. That is pure and simple' 
hearsay, 

29. I may add that even if it had been proved that Ram Chand had acted as a: 
polling agent of the Respondent on the maierials now before me it cannot be 
held that Ram Chand was one of such Government officers as would come under 
sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Act. The result, therefore, is that this issue 
must be found against the Petitioner on both the questions of fact. Neither 
Issue No. 2(b) nor 2(c) accordingly need be considered. As a matter of tact, if 
Issue No, 2 had been found in favour of the Petitioner the Respondent would 
have committed a corrupt practice and issue No. 2(c) would have been unnecessary. 

Issue No. 3 

30. Under this issue it is required to be considered whether the name of the 
Respondent had been wrongly written on the ballot boxes as alleged in paragraph 
9 of the Election Petition. If so, was this against law and did this materially 
affect the election of the Petitioner? 

31. The Respondent has produced copy of an entry of his name in the electoral 
roll (Exb. R-2). In the Supplementary list No. I of 1956 to the Electoral Roll 
under serial No. 192, the name of the Respondent is ‘Surfit Singh Majithia’ and 
not simply ‘Surjit Singh’ as contended by the Petitioner. The name on the ballot 
boxes was as in the electoral roll. This issue was not pressed and is found 
against the Petitioner. 

Issue No. 4 

32. The Petitioner had alleged in the Election Petition that there had not 
been sufficient publicity given to the symbols assigned to the different candidates 
as required under the rules. No evidence was adduced by the Petitioner in 
support of such a contention, and the learned counsel for the Petitioner did not 
ultimately press this issue. This issue is found in favour of the Respondent as 
the fact alleged by the Petitioner is not proved. 

Issue No. 5 

33. This issue relates to the return of election expenses filed by the. 
Respondent It is contended on behalf of the Petitioner that under sub-section 
(6) of Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, incurring or authorising 



Sm. S <H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959 /FHALGUNA U, 1|)| 533 


ef expenditure m contravention of Section 77 is deemed to be a corrupt practice. 
Section 77 of the same Act is in the following terms: 

“77. Account of election expenses and maximum thereof.— (T) Every candi- 
date at an election shall, either by himself or by his election agent, 
keep a separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection 
with the election incurred or authorised by him or by his election 
agent between the date of publication of the notification calling the 
election and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates 
inclusive. 

“(2) The, account shall contain such particulars, as may be prescribed. 

“(3) The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as 
may be prescribed." 

The relevant provisions as contained in the Representation of the People; (Conduct 
of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956, are contained in Part III of the 
said rules under the heading ‘Election Expenses'. 

34. The contraventions pleaded by the Petitioner may be sub-divided under 
three heads— 

(a) The Respondent had used for election purposes a number of jeeps and 

lorries during the election period. Such vehicles are alleged by the 
Respondent to belong to the Saraya Sugar Factory, Sardaruagar, 
District Gorakhpur (U.P.). The said concern was at the time of the 
election in the nature of a partnership and the Respondent wai then 
a Managing Partner. Now it is a Private Limited Company. The 
Respondent holds a four annas four pies share. The vehicles are 
alleged to have been placed at the disposal of the Respondent by Ihe 
said Sugar Factory for which no hire was charged Inc Respondent, 
however, had in two notes appended to the return of election expenses 
indicated a notional hue charge of the jeeps at Rs. 20 per day and of the 
weapon carriers at Rs. 25 per day. These were considered by him 
to be the reasonable rales in addition to the price of petrol and 
mobil oil used for those vehicles for the period, as also ihe repair 
charges paid for two of the weapon carriers. According to the 
Petitioner the proper hire charges for these vehicles would be much 
higher than the rates mentioned above and such hire charges should 
be" included within the election expenses of the Respondent for 
determining whether he had exceeded the limit laid down under rule 
135(1) (b). If the rates suggested by the Petitioner be accepted and 
the hire charges of the vehicles are held to be items which must 
be included within the return of election expenses, the total amount 
would exceed the maximum limit fixed under the said rule. 

(b) The Petitioner alleges that the Respondent had opened and main- 

tained during the election period a number of langars (free kitchens) 
where his workers were given free food. The Petitioner alleges that 
the total amount spent for the running of these langars could not be 
less than Rs. 14,000, but this entire amount had not been included in 
the return of election expenses 

(c) Three peisons Man Singh, Bachittar .Singh and Mangal Singh are alleged 

to have had worked for the Respondent, but their salaries had not 
been debited m the return of election expenses. 

35. I shall now proceed to consider each of thtsc allegations under the thiee 
sub-heads with reference to the evidence adduced and the relevant questions of 

law. 

36. (a) Use of Jeeps and Weapon Carriers. — The return of election expenses 
filed by the Respondent has been marked as Exb, R-6 and the vouchers attached 
therewith are Exb. R-7 stries. The Petitioner had also called for the original 
accounts maintained by the Respondent and his Election Agent. The set of 
original accounts also had been produced and marked as Exb. P-1 and marked 
again as Exb. R-5. From and examination of the depositions of the Petitioner, 
the Respondent and the Election Agent Bishah Singh, there is no room for doubt 
that the Respondent had used three jeeps and 4 Weapon Carriers during the 
election period. The period for which they had been used and as stated by and 
on behalf of the Respondent has not been seriously questionecl. The 
Respondent’s allegation that these motor vehicles belonged to the Sarya Sugar 



534 


[TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7. 1W9/PHALGUNA IB, 18*0 [Purr II 


Factory was not admitted by the Petitioner. That those belonged to that Sugar 
Factory as also the fact that their use had been permitted by the factory have 
be«n testified by R.W-3 and R.W-1J examined on behalf of the Respondent. But 
it is argued on behalf of the Petitioner that there is no written authority produced 
from the Factory either to show that these vehicles belonged to that factory or 
that they had "been permitted to be used by the Respondent and that no hire 
charge had been debited against the Respondent in the accounts of the firm. It 
was further contended that it being an admitted fact that certain specific motor 
vehicles had been used by the Respondent for election purposes it behoves upon 
him to satisfy the Tribunal why their normal hire charges should not be included, 
or, to show that no expenses were incurred by him for getting their use, All 
these facts were further within the special knowledge of the Respondent and it 
wan possible for him and him alone lo adduce conclusive evidence that these 
vehicles belonged to the Sugar Factory and that their free use had been permitted. 
From the trend of the examination of the witnesses and the final argument? it 
may be asserted that the Petitioner ultimately reconciled himself to the position 
that the vehicles did belong to the Sugar Factory. The principal contention, as 
urged during the arguments, was limited to the three following points:- - 

ti) In the absence of any direct and positive proof that the Su^ar Factory 
had permitted the free use of these vehicles, the Tribunal ought to 
presume that the Respondent had not their free use; and 

(ii) in any view, as the vehicles according to the Respondent belonged to 
the Sugar Factory, in which persons other than the said Respondent 
were interested as proprietors; 

(nil or, even if the vehicles be at best be considered to have belonged to the 
Respondent to tht extent of the share held by him in the Factory, 
rent at the market rate in respect of the share of persons other than 
the Respondent must be included in the Respondent return of Election 
Expenses. 

For cither of the two latter alternative methods of calculation the full market 
rate has to be ascertained and there is no room for a notional rale being merely 
appended in a note to the Return. 

37. After giving due consideration to the evidence as adduced by the 
Respondent, I do not see any reasons as to why the statements made by the 
Respondent himself, who was at the relevant time the Managing Partner of the 
concern, should be disbelieved. The veracity of the Respondent, his election agent 
and certain employees of the factory, who worked for the Respondent during 
the election period and examined in this case, has not been shaken. It is true 
that on the case as made by the Respondent about the ownership of the motor 
vehicles used by him, it was upto him to explain why the hire charges should 
not be included in the Return. On the evidence adduced, though not very satis- 
factory, and from the surrounding circumstances about the constitution of the 
concern that I find the story set up by the Respondent m this part of the case, to 
be more natural and probable. The Petitioner has not adduced any dependable 
evidence to the effect that any rent had been assessed or charged. The evidence 
as attempted to be introduced on the statement made by P.W-7 Janmeja Singh 
cannot be accepted. I shall discuss more, fully the nature of that evidence when 
I consider the evidence as to the prevailing market rate. I hold that no payment 
was actually made or expenses incurred by the Respondent for these vehicles, 
except for the price of the petrol used and repairs found necessary — which items 
have been included m the Return. 

38. I shall now take up the second and the third alternative arguments advanced 
even if it be held that a proper market rate should be taken into consideration 
we have to consider whether sufficient materials have been placed before me to 
determine such market rate As regards the prevailing market rate we have 
the evidence of one of the witnesses (P.W-7) on behalf of the Petitioner and of 
the Petitioner himself. On behalf of the Respondent rates notified by the Election 
Department for requisitioning on behalf of the Government motor vehicles for 
election purposes has been filed. The Respondent has attempted to justify the 
notional rate but does not know what the market rate was. Janmeja Singh 
PW-7 states that he had worked for the Respondent Surjit Smgh Majithia during 
the election period. He states that the Respondent had hired jeeps and olher 
mol or vehicles at Rs, 50 to Rs. 70 per vehicle per day. His source of information 
is that all the workers for the Respondent together had given him that informa- 
tion. Amongst such persons named, are Nahar Singh and Harcharan Singh, who 
were alleged to have been the other workers of the Respondent. Janmeja Singh 
alleges he had worked for the Respondent not for any monitary consideration, but 



Sic. J (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 535 


because he was a member of Ihe Congress; he has now left that party. In coursa 
of cross-examination, it was put to this witness by the Respondent, that the former 
had actually worked for the petitioner Daya] Singh, during the 1957-election and 
not for the Respondent. He stoutly denied this and referred to the fact that in 
his village Pmdian, except a few stray votes, all the rest were cast m favour of 
Respondent Mujithia. Although in the examination-in-chief he had mentioned 
that the hire charges was Rs, 50 to Rs. 70 per vehicle, during the cross-examination 
he stated that the information given by Nahar Singh was to the effect that the 
‘expense’ for a jeep was Rs 50 per day and for a lorry Rs. 60 or Rs. 70. By 
the expression ‘expense’ he then explained he had included hire money and petrol. 
It is, however, the Respondent’s case that petrol used on these vehicles was paid 
for by the Respondent. This witness attempted to explain away the answer 
previously given, when he referred to the talk with Harcharan Singh. He 
corrected himself by saying that the hire for jeep is Rs. 50 excluding the expense 
for petrol. This hire for lorry was stated to be Rs. 60 to Rs. 70 per day. Apart 
from such serious contradictions by him reference has to be made to the latter- 
part of his cross-examination where his connection with the Petitioner and parti- 
cularly with Ruvisher Singh son of the petitioner are referred to. Although 
in the beginning the witness tried to evade direct and correct answers he had to 
admit later on and there is no room for dpubt in my mind that he is a witness 
who now is and also had been intimately connected with the Petitioner’s family 
and was also associated with them m connection with Court proceedings. It is 
not safe to depend upon the evidence of such a witness for determining what the 
market rates for hire of motor vehicles were. Further his source of information 
about such rates is what other people had stated to him. He has no direct and 
first-hand knowledge of such rates which can be relied upon. Such hearsay 
evidence also is not of any consequence. 


39. ’the Petitioner’s own statement as P.W-8 may also be referred to. He has 
stated that though the Respondent had given the hire charges of jeeps and other 
vehicles at Rs. 20 and Rs. 25 per day, the market rate was Rs. 50 per day for a 
jeep and Rs, 60 or Rs. 70 per day for other vehicles, He owns no motor vehicle. 
He has had no occasion either to take on hire or to hire out a motor vehicle 
during the election period His source of information is that he had made 
enquiries from Sandhu Bus Service for lorries and for cars from a shed opposite 
the Railway Station at Amritsar— a shed where taxis are available for hire. On 
an enquiry at that place and without engaging any car or jeep or lorry he was 
told by others that the rate was as mentioned by him. He should have got some- 
body to appear us witness from the Sandhu Bus Service or from any other person 
who owns jeeps or lorries and hires them out. The Petitioners’ statement is 
based on information obtained from others and such evidence also is secondary 
evidence on which no decision can be made. As against such evidence the 
Respondent has produced copy of a circular letter marked as EXB. R-4 issued by 
the Chief Secretary to Government, Punjab, wherein the Government of Punjab 
fixed certain rates of hire of different types of motor vehicles as might be 
requisitioned by the District authorities in the Punjab for use during the last 
general elections and bye-elections to the Union and State legislatures, The hire 
charge for a jeep is stated there to he Rs. 10/8 per working day and Rs. 8 for a 
non-working day. Petrol and Mobil Oil to be supplied by the Government and 
the owners to provide their own drivers and cleaners, li ton trucks are to be 
requisitioned for Rs. 20 and Rs. 10 per working day and non working day 
respectively. It has been argued with some justification on behalf of Petitioner 
that the rates as mentioned in this circular arc rates for requisition as ordered by 
the Government, but there is no evidence to show that such rates were accepted 
by the owners or that such rates were the prevailing market rates at which private 
parties could get motor vehicles on hire during the heavy demands of the election 
period. The Election Agent of the Respondent has stated that the note appearing 
at the end of the Return of Election Expenses which were the notional rates for 
these motor vehicles had been incorporated according to the instructions by the 
Respondent himself. The Respondent also in course of his deposition took upon 
himself the responsibility about the particular rates mentioned. He could not 
however indicate the basis on which such rates had been fixed by him in the 
return of election expenses. He merely stated that such rates as werci considered 
by him to be fair and reasonable were mentioned. 


40. The nature of the. evidence on the quest-on of market rates as adduced by 
both the parties, is as indicated above. The Respondent has mentioned in the 
return only certain notional rates for the me of the vehicles The Petitioner has 
stated that the prevailing market rate was much higher. Neither the Petitioner 
nor the Respondent has adduced substantial and reliable evidence as to the then 



536 r JHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7 , IS59/FHALC.IJNA 16, HR* [ft*, II 


prevailing market rates. On such evidence, therefore, it is not possible to deter- 
mine any definite market rate for these types of motor vehicles. Jeeps are in 
common use; weapon carriers however, were purchased from the Disposals after 
the last war and from the evidence! as adduced on behalf of the Respondent it 
appears that weapon carriers are similar to lorries and they arc much smaller 
vehicles than 1^ ton lorries. On behalf of the Respondent, no attempt was made 
to adduce any evidence about the market rate for weapon earners. The con- 
clusion reached as indicated already, is that the materials in the record are not 
sufficient to arrive at a fair market rate prevailing then. If on the other hand the 
answer be in the negative and no entry is required to be made in tile Return the 
absence of evidence as to the market rate will not bo of any consequence. If the 
decision is that proper market rates were to have been included by the Respondent 
for the use of such motor vehicles, it will be necessary to consider on whom the 
onus lay to prove the market rate and what would he the legal c fleet of the non- 
inclusion of such items in the return of election expenses. 

41. After the conclusion reached by me that Respondent No. 1 had not been 
required to pay any thing to the Sugar Faetoiy lor the use of the motor vehicles 
I have now to consider whether the Respondent was required under the law 
to include in his return of Election expenses any figure for the ■estimated hire 
charges. If the answer be in the affirmative is that amount to be on the basis 
of the then prevailing market rate, or any notional amount? It will also be 
nert ssary to consldei whether in such ease tne full amount of the total hire charge- 
able or only the share payable (if charged) to the co-owners of the Factory, other 
than the Respondent 

42 Reliance was placed on behali of the Respondent on (he decision of the- 
Supreme Court Rananjaya Singh v. Baijnath Singh (1954) 10 E.L.R. 129. At the 
very outset it must be pointed out that this decision of the Supreme Court was 
on the relevant provisions of the Representation of the People Act, as they stood 
before the 1956 amendment and when there were two sets of corrupt practices, 
some major and some minor. It we... aiso at a time when the statute fixed the 
maximum number of different types of workers who could be engaged by a candi- 
date for a particular election Reliance, however, is placed on certain principles 
enunciated by ihe Supreme Court about assistance obtained by the candidate of 
persons who had been serving undci the father of the .candidate and in respect 
of whom no remuneration had been paid by the candidate himself. Before I deal 
further with the observations of the Supreme Court, refeicncc need be made to 
the specific provision as contained m sub-section (7) of section 123 of the Act— 
as it stood before the 1956 amendments — which made 

“(7) the incurring or authorising by a candidate oi h s agent of expendi- 
ture, or the employment oJ any person bv a candidate or his agent, in 
contravention of this Act or ol any rule made the icunder" a corrupt, 
nractice. 

43. Rules 117 and 118 of the Representation of the People, Rules (1951) were 
at that time in the following teims — 

“117, Maximum Election Expenses. — No expetvc shall he incurved or autho- 
rised by a candidate or his election agent on , oeounl of or in respect 
of conduct and management of an election in qny one constituency 
m a State in excess of the maximum amount specified in respect of 
that constituency in Schedule V " 

“118. Number of persons who may be employed for payment in connection 
with FAections. — No person other than, nr in addition to, those specifi- 
ed -in Schedule VI shall be employed for payment by a candidate or 
his election agent m connection with an election.’’ 

Schedule VI referred to in rule 1J8 above opened with the words “Persons who 
may be employed for payment by candidates or their election agents in connection 
with elections ” 

44. Section 77 of the Representation of the People Acl as il then stood was in 
the iollowing terms — ■ 

“77. Maximum Election Expenses , etc. — The maximum scales of election 
expenses at elections and the number and descriptions of persons 
who may be employed tor payment in connection with elections shall 
be such &s may be prescribed,’’ 



Xp, . .1 (ii)J THE GAZETTE Ol IXDLA : MARCH 7, 1959/FIJALGUNA 1«, !««• 537 


45. The following passage appearing in the judgment of the Supreme Court in 
Remanjaya Singh v. Baipiath Singh (1954) 10 E.L.R. 129 (at p. 132) brings out 
the effect of the above provisions on the question now foi consideration in the 
present case: — 

“The learned advocate appearing for the respondent frankly and properly 
conceded that he could not support this part of the finding 01 the 
Tribunal [that although the estate belonged to the father of the 
appellant, nevertheless, as the appellant was the heir apparent and 
actually looked after the estate on behalf of the old and infirm pro- 
prietor, these “servants” of the estate were “virtually” his “own” 
servants and could propeily be regarded as having been employed 
for payment by the appellant]. He, however, contended, rel>ing 
on the language used in Section 77, that if the number of persons uho 
worked for payment in connection with the election exceeded the 
maximum number specified in Schedule VI, the case fell Within the 
mischief of the relevant sections and the rules, no matter who 
employed them or who made payments to them. It is tiue that 
section 77 uses the words “who may be employed for payment” 
without indicating by whom employed or paid but it must be borne 
in mind that the gist of a corrupt practice as defined in section 123(7) 
is that the employment of extra persons and the incurring or autho- 
rising of excess expenditure must be by the candidate or his agent. 
The provisions of rules 117 and 118 are Lo be read in the light of this 
definition of a corrupt practice. 


* * * * * 

Section 77 must, therefore, be read in a manner consonant with section 
123(7) and rules 117 and 118, * * * Therp can be no doubt that 

in the eye of the law these extra persons were in the employment 
of the father of the appellant and paid by the father and they were 
neither employed nor paid by Ihe appellant. The case, therefore, 
does not fall within section 123(7) at ai] and if that be so, it cannot 
come within section 124(4)”. 

Reference in this connection was made by the Supreme Court to the observa- 
tions m Joseph Forster Wilson v. Christopher Furness 6 O’M & H.l(6). 
On this line of reasoning the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that tho 
persons whose services had been availed of. were obviously the servants of the 
father and assisted the son in the matter of the election, Such persons assisted 
the son in connection with the election at the request of the father which strictly 
speaking they were not obliged to do, They were in the position of volunteers. 
These persons were neither employed nor paid by the son. the candidate. Employ- 
ment of volunteers does not bring the candidate within the mischief of the 
definition of corrupt practice as given in Section 123(7) as it then stood 

4(1 On the authority of this derision the Counsel for the Respondent urged ihe 
acceptance of the proposition that the use of the motor vehicles in the present 
case was in the nature of such volunteers placed at the disposal of the candidate 
by the Sugar Factory. Will the admitted fact that the Respondent in (he present 
ease was not the full owner of the vehicles affect the application of the principles 
laid down by the Supreme Court? 

47. In this connection reference was also made by the Respondent to the 
principle enunciated by the Tanjore. Election Tribunal in ~M. R. Meganathan v . K, T. 
Kosalram 9 E.L.R. 242 on pages 270-271, It had been contended on behalf of the 
Petitioner in that case that when a candidate used his own car a reasonable hire 
of the cars should be shown as election expenses. This argument was rejected 
with the observation that when one uses one's own car there is no hiring and no 
payment of hire and there is, therefore, no question of the. amount of hire being 
included in the return. How far will such reasoning be relevant in the present 
case when the Respondent is not the sole owner, but he is at best a part owner. 
Why should not a notional hire charge be included in the return? "I’d this the 
answer given is that a notional hire has been indicated in the return of election 
•expenses. In the absence of evidence about the proper market rate and the 
Respondent being a part owner of the vehicles, nothing except a notional charge 
can or could be indicated. 

48. Let us now consider the implications of the decision of the Supreme Court 
with reference to the post-1956 amended provisions of the Act and the Rules, 
While considering the applicability of the then provisions in Sections 77 and 123(7) 



THL GAZETTE O* INDIA : MARCH 7. 1959/FHALGUNA 16, IBM) [P\*i 11 


of the Act about the limit of number of persons to be appointed in furtherance 
of the election emphasis was laid on the question whether the persons had been 
employed and paid by the candidate. _ Chapter VIII of Part VI of the Representa- 
tion of the People Act deal with Election Expenses. All the three sections 
(Sections 76 to 78) in this Chapter were materially altered in 1956 to give effect 
to the new idea that there should be only one and not two grades of corrupt 
practices and the number of persons to be engaged was not to be limited. It will 
be noticed that in Section 77(1) of the Act as it now stands the account is to b* 
kept "of all expenditure in connection with the election incurred or authorised by 
him or by his election agent.” 


Under the present Rules" as contained m Part III of the Conduct of Elections 
and Election Petitions dealing with Election Expenses the candidate is to keep 
the account of election expenses “incurred or authorised” (Rule 131), Sub-section 
(6) of Section 123 of the Act makes the “ incurring or authorising of expenditure 
in contravention of Section 77” a corrupt practice. Thus the proi lsions of 
Sections 77(1) and 123(6) taken alongwilh Rule 131 make it abundantly clear 
that the penal provisions are attracted only when expenses have had been ar rually 
incurred. This interpretation is in consonance with the principles adopted by the 
Supreme Court rn 10 E.L.R. 129. The observations by the Tanjore Tribunal in 
9 E.L.R. 242 (271) about reasonable hire of cars to bc'included whether hired or 
not must be held not to be binding after the Supreme Court decision. In the facts 
of the case now before me if the story as given by the Respondent and his election 
agent be believed, and I see no reason to disbelieve that no lure charge was 
demanded by the Sugar Factory or actually paid by the Respondent, no expendi- 
ture was incurred bv the Respondent or his election agent for the use of the 
motor vehicles. In this state of the legal position it becomes immaterial whether 
the Respondent was the sole or part owner of the vehicles. No notional rate of 
hire charges is required to be included in the Return of Election expenses when 
no expenditure was incurred. It is also not necessary to consider further what 
the actual market rate was and what would be the effect o.f neither the 
Respondent nor the Petitioner adducing sufficient evidence to prove the market 
rate. Exclusion of market rates of hire charges of these motor vehicles does not 
bring the Respondent within the mischief of Section 77 read with Section 123(6) 
of the Representation of the People Act. 


49. (b) Opening of hangars— The Petitioner’s case is that the Respondent 
had opened a number of langurs or free kitchens during the election. As will 
appear from my preliminary orders previously made the petitioner had at 
different stages made attempts to include or to exclude places where langars had 
been originally alleged in the election petition to have been opened. In para- 
graph 3(a) (iii) of the petition, 7 places are mentioned where langars were opened. 
The petitioner in course of his deposition speaks about four, two of which are in 
this list and two outside the same. Five of the places originally named in the 
petition are not mentioned by any of the witnesses for the Petitioner. The only 
evidence available is that of the Petitioner Daval Singh himself P.W-8. In answer 
to question No. 8 he mentioned four places — Majilhia House at Amritsar, Taran 
Taran, Khadur Sahib and Sarhali. In the answers given by this witness to 
questions 26 to 35, he attempted to give some indication as to the manner in 
which he came to know of the existence and the continuance of these langars 
during the election period. He had passed by the langur at Majithla House at 
Amritsar once or twice. He could not give even the approximate date. It was 
about mid-day that lie was there. He saw 15 or 20 persons taking their meals 
but none of them he could recognise. Majithia House is according to the 
Respondent in occupation of his brother-in-Law Mangel Singh Man who stay 
there with 15 to 20 members- -including his family establishment. Without any 
evidence as to who the 15 or 20 persons taking their meals seen by the Petitioner 
werei, it is unsafe to hold that such persons were workers of the Respondent or 
that there xvas a langar at that place for 20 or 25 days at one stretch. They might 
have been the occupants of the place. The only "other langar referred to In 
detail is at Tarn Taran. The Petitioner had passed that place on many occasions 
as he had to go to his village that way. Here also some people were found to 
be eating and some were coming out, but here also he did not know or recognise 
any of those persons. No evidence is available about Khadur Sahib and Sarhali. 
As against such evidence we have got the testimony of R.W-3 respondent himself 
who denies having run such langars. Surinder Singh (R.W-4) who was the 
General Secretary of the Congress Committee, Tarn Taran also gives a definite 
denial of the existence of langars at Tam Taran. He had visited Sarhali on tha 
day of the poll and there was no langar there on that day. Manohar Lai (R.W-5) 
is the Genera] Secretary of the District Congress Committee (Rural), Amritsar 
District, who was in control of the election propaganda throughout the rural area 
of the Amritsar district, in terms of the instructions which had "eon received front 



Sfc, 3 (ii)] 1 HI* GAZEI i’E OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, I860 539 


the State Congress Committee. He has denied the existence of any langar at 
Majithia House or at Tarn Taran. lie also had not seen any other langar being 
run during the period. Of similar effect are the testimony of Nahar Singh 
R.W-9, in answer to questions 3, 4 and 5, Sohan Singh R.W-10 in answer to 
questions 2 and 3 and Bishan Singh, R.W-11 election agent in answers to question 
No. 13. 

50. In this state of the evidence, there is no escape from the conclusion that 
the petitioner has failed to prpve that langars were run at any one or more of 
the places mentioned by him by the Respondent during the election period. The 
question, therefore, of not including the expenses of such langars does not arise. 

(c) Non-inclusion of payment to Mhn Singh, Bachittar Singh and Mangal 
Singh. 

51. On behalf of the Petitioner no evidence could be adduced about the engage- 
ment of these three persons or of payment to them for work during the election 
period. The petitioner did not seriously press this part ol the case and this »lse 
must be found against the Petitioner. 

52. On the conclusions reached under the different heads discussed above, 
Issue No. 5 is decided against the Petitioner and in favour of the Respondent. The 
accounts submitted by the Respondenl are not false or underestimated. 

Issue No. 6 

53. Under this issue it falls to be decided whether one Beant Singh had been 
a Sarpanch and if so, whether his appointment by the Respondent as a polling 
agent offends against the provisions of Section 123(7) of the Representation of the 
People Act. Before the merits under this issue are taken up, objections, in the 
nature of preliminary ones raised by the Respondents, need consideration. For a 
proper appreciation of the same the relevant contents of the pleadings have to be 
referred to, the contention being the pleadings would not permit the relevant 
question to be considered. 

Is there a deficiency in the Petition about Beant Singh ? 

54. In paragraph 6 of the Election Petition the petitioner has alleged that the 
Respondent had been guilty of corrupt practices adopted by him and his supporters, 
the full particulars whereof are mentioned in Schedule C to the Petition [The 
reference to Schedule B in the petition originally hied was allowed to be corrected 
as a typographical slip for Schedule C] In subparagraph ( 1 ) to paragraph 6 it is 
further alleged that the Respondent had procured the assistance of several persons 
serving under the Government of India, the Punjab State and the Local Govern- 
ment offices for the furtherance of his election, in Schedule ‘C’ under Item No. 3, 
the further detail given is that Beant Singh of Lapoki, a Sarpancli of village 
Ardhang within Tehsil Ajnala, had worked as a polling agent for the Respondent 
at polling booth Chogawan, which was against the election rules. 

55. In the final written statement filed on behalf of the Respondent, the objections 
raised are to the following effect: — 

The relevant rules infringed have not been disclosed nor the illegality in- 
volved in the person acting as alleged have been stated. Allegations 
in sub-clause ( 1 ) of paragraph 6 of the Petition are denied, “Respon- 
dent did not procure the alleged assistance for the furtherance of the 
prospects of his election from any person serving under the Govern- 
ment of India, Punjab State or the local Government offices." 

The answer to the particulars as given under item 3 of Schedule C of the 
Election Petition, the written statement was in the following terms: — 

“Even if the petitioner proves S. Board Singh to be a Sarpnnch, Sarpanch is 
not included in the list of Government, servants mentioned in Section 
123(7) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Consequently 
his appointment as polling agent will neither Infringe any law or rule 
nor constitute any corrupt practice; and mere appointment as polling 
agent as alleged does not constitute any corrupt practice.” 

It is in this state of the pleadings that this issue has been raised. On behalf of 
the Respondent it is contended that though it Is stated in the petition that Beant 
Singh had acted a polling agent of tho Respondent and that he was at the 
material time a Sarpanch there is no allegation that the polling agent had been 
appointed by the Respondent or his election agent. It is urged that in view of the 



540 1 Hi, GAZi.HK Oh 1M)I\: MARCH 7, 


lljS/HIAIX.HNA 1*. '*** [Part H 


absence of such an allegation the respondent js not called upon to adduce any evi- 
dence or to cioss examine the petitioner's witnesses with regard to the question 
whether Beant Singh had been appointed by the Respondent or his election agent. 
This objection as urged during the (Inal argument is of the substance. The learn- 
ed advocate for the Respondent was constrained to concede that during the hearing 
the respondent’s attitude was altogether different. Evidence had been adduced on 
the part of the petitioner that ldeant Smgh had been appointed polling agent for 
the lespondent and that by the election agent ol the latter. The Respondent's 
election agent, when examined for- the Respondent, had been out questions during 
the examination is chief with repaid in the manner in which he had appointed the 
polling aafnt and that to build up ihe defence that the polling actnG having been 
appointea on blank forms signed by the election agent the appointment could not 
be deemed to have been made by him. The Respondent had ueuially cross examin- 
ed the petitioners’ witnesses as to who had appointed Beant Singh or how the 
appointment had been made. It will further appear that though there is a specific 
denial of the fact that Beant Singh v as u Sarpanch, theie is no denial of the allega- 
tion clearly niade that he had been appoints I as a polling agenl of the Respondent. 
Theie is only a general denied in paragraph ti of the written statement on the 
men's, of the allegations as in paragraph G(u of the petILion. it is wed settled 
that such general denial by itself is not sufficient when in connection Willi the p utl- 
culars given in Schedule C attached to the petition the Respondent gives a direct 
denial of some only of the facts alleged, hut omits to deny one. and that a very 
vital one, of those facts, i.e. Beant Singh had been engage i as a polling agent of 
the Respondent. Such denial is absent presumably be< au.ie the Respondent, 
responsible and straightforward as ha appeared to be, would not be a party to a 
statement which was not and cannot be supported as a fact. The defence of the 
Respondent is, therefore, of a two fold rhar>cter — (1 ) that Beant Singh was not a 
Sarpancb and (2) ever if hr found to be a barpanch, such an office noos not come 
•within ihe mischief oi sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Act. The fact of his 
having acted as a polling agent is admitted by implication and also during evidence, 

50, It is no doubt well settled that the petitioner in an election petition cannot 
be permitted to rely on a particular corrupt practice, if not pleaded in the petition 
[ Mast Ram v. Iqbal Smgh (1955)] 12 EL.R. 34 or if full particulars of all corrupt 
practices are not furnished [B hikaji Keshao Josh i vs. Brtj Lai Nand Lai Biya.ni 
(1955)] 10 E.L.R. 357. Reliance was placed on the observations of the Judicial 
Committee of the Privy Council in Sicldik Mohammed Shah v. Mst. Sarnn A.I.R. 
1930 P.C, 57 to the effect that— 

“Where a claim has been never made In the defence presented no amount of 
evidence can be looked into upon a plea which was never put iorward,’’ 

The facts and circumstances of the present case are, however, altogether differ- 
ent. As already pointed out that there are dear and unambiguous statements in 
The election petition and that Beant Singh was a Sarpanch and that he had acted 
m the election as a polling agent lor Ihe Respondent, there was ilo denial In the 
written statement of the allegation in item (3) of Schedule C to the Petition that he 
was a polling agent of the Respondent. During the examination of witnesses it 
was not suggested by the Respondent that Beant Singh had not acted as a polling 
agent of the Respondent. As to the manner m which he had been appointed as 
polling agent is clear from the statutory provisions or Lhat is a matter of evidence 
whirh need not have been stated in the pleadings. The nature and particulars of 
the corrupt practice pleaded wei ■ quite specific and clear. The respective parties 
had no doubt about the nature and quanti *n <' f evidence required cither to prove 
or to repell the application of the provision of Section 123(7) of the Act While 
framing this particular issue only those points which were contested were includ- 
ed. The question whether in fact Beant Singh had acted as a polling agent of the 
Respondent not having been contested wa.; not -nclurted in the issue after the parties 
had been heard. Further, both the parties have adduced sufficient evidence on the 
question as to who had appointed Beant Singh as polling agent The respondent 
has introduced through his own witnesses or in course of cross examination of the 
petitioner’s witnesses relevant and sufficient evidence on the point. Confronted 
with such clear evidence it is not now open to the respondent to turn round and 
say that the Tribunal is not entitled to go into the question whether the appoint- 
ment of the polling agent was by, the respondent or by his ejection agent. Tlie 
avertments in the pleadings and the conduct of the parties have been such that 
there can be no question that the point was clearly raised and understood by the 
parlies, has been sufficiently canvassed by both the parties and relevant evidence 
has been adduced and I am to give my decision on the same. 

57. Reference is next made by the Respondent to the form of issue No. 6 parti- 
cularly the last sentence of that issue It is argued that / that part of the issue 
being to the effect that if Beant Sin£h is found to have been a Sarpanch when he 



Sec, 3 (,i)] | HE GA/F IJEOF IMH^ : MARCH 7, IWS/FHALGl'NA IS, lit* 


wri; acting as polling agent, did this matcinilly affect the election, clearly indicates 
that the intention of the petitioner was in having such an issue framed to bring 
this allegation within the ambit oi < lause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 100 rnd 
not clause (b) of sub-section (1) of the same section. It is contended that if the 
non-observance of some of the statutory provisions or the committal of a corrupt 
practice by a person other than the candidate or his election agent or a pcison 
acting with the consent oi such candidate or election agent be pleaded, the petition- 
er must before he can succeed prove to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that by. 
such an act the result of the election, in so far as it concerns the returned candi- 
date, had been mate*ially ullected. I do not think thal there is any lorcc in this 
argument either. After it is found that the returned candidate had obtained, for 
the furtherance ot the prospect of his election, assistance from a person in the ser- 
vice ol' the government and belonging to any of the categories mentioned, that 
makes that ollence to he a corrupt practice and it is not, in tacli a case, necessary 
to eriler into the question whether the result of the election has been materially 
nilecled by such an act The offence tailing within clave (b) of mh-«ectton l of 
section loll makes the last sentence of the issue redundant if, on the other hand, 
it be iuund in favour of the respondent that the person engaged was not neither a 
person in the service of government or falls under any of Ihe categories mention- 
ed in sub-section (7) of section 123, the petitioner’s case as under this issue fails in 
its rntirity and there Is no occasion to consider whether bv such an act, the result 
of the election had in any way been materialh affected The form of the issue or 
the last sentence theicof does not, therefore, alter the case of the parties as mad" 
in the pleadings and as indicated in the first part of issue No. 6. That such wa . 
tlie case was understood by the paities and evidence adduced. The rights of the 
parties or Ihe lunsdiction of the Tribunal are not affected in any way. There is 
no ouestion of either of the parties being taken by surprise or that any prejudice 
wjll be suffered hy either of them. 

58. My conclusion, therefore, is that there is no such deficiency in the pleadings 
which can be relied upon by the respondent or that the allegations made by the 
petitioner militate m any way against an enquiry as to what extent, if at all, sub- 
section (7) of section 123 is attracted in the present case laken along with clause 
(b) of suh-seclion 1 of section 100 of tiie Act. 

69. Was Bcant Singh a Sirp<inch‘> — Beam Singh P.W. 1 states in course of his 
deposition that he was a Sarpaiich of village Uidhan in Teht.il Ajnala. The very 
first question put to this witness during cross-examination snows unmistakably 
Inal the Respondent’s case was that Beant Singh was a Sarpanih but that he had 
been elected by the Panchayat, who in their turn elected by the people. The 
Respondent also states in his examination in chief “I do not remember whether I 
knew at the time of election that he (Beant Singh) was a Sarpanoh. I now know 
that he is a Sarpaneh, but never knew at that time whether he was a Sarpanch at 
the time of election. I never asked him." Bishan Sit gh (R.W. 11) election agent 
of the Respondent also speaks in the same strain, it must ai cordinglv he found 
that Beant Singh was a Sarpanch at the relevant time , 

60. Did Beant Singh act or had been appointed as the Polling Agent of the 

Respondent ? — I have already pointed out that the Respondent did not contro- 
vert the allegation that Beant Singh acted as his polling agent, I shrill, how- 
ever, indicate briefly the evidence on this point. Beant Singh P.W. 1 supports 
this and no question is put to him during cross-examination. Bishan Singh 
R.W. 11 also accepts the position thal Beant Singh had acted as such for Respon- 
dent. I find that Beant Singh did act as the polling agent of the Respondent 
at Chogwan. Whether the said, appointment was legal or effective as against 
the Respondent will be next considered, ’ 

61. Effect of blank forms being signed. — The explanation given by the election 
agent Bishan Singh is that he had distributed amongst the load election workers 
blank polling agent nomination forms signed by him before the names of the 
persons to act as polling agent had been filled in. It is argued on behalf of the 
Respondent that the subsequent filling in of the names — including that of Beant 
Singh cannot be treated or have the effect of such persons having been appointed 
by the Respondent or even the election agent. 

62. Section 4Q of the Representation of the People Act makes the provision 
for the appointment of polling agents in such manner as may be prescribed. 
The relevant rule is Rule 13. Under sub-rule 2 of this Rule every appointment 
of polling agent is to be in form 10 and such form is to be made over to the 
polling agent for production ai the polling station. In the present case Beant 
Singh has been examined as P.W, 1. In answer to questions Nos. 2 and 3 he has 
stated that he had been appointed by Bishan Singh polling agent for Surjit Singh 
Majithia for polling station Chogawan. No question was put to him in cross 



542 


THE GAZE, 1 IE OF IM)I \ : MVRGTI 


7, 1‘159/PHAI.GlJNA 16, 1SS0 |F\nr II 


examination on behalf of the Respondent. All that Bishan Singh, -who was the 
election agent appointed by the respondent stated in answer to question No. 28 
was that he did not appoint Beant Smgh as polling agdnt for the respondent, at 
Chogawan directly. He had given blank polling agent forms signed by him 
to the local Congress workers. He had signed about one thousand such blank 
forms. In course of cross-examination in answer to question No. 5V he said 
that he did not keep any list of polling agents appointed by him. He further 
stated that, except in the case of one or two m the Khalra constituency, no other 
appointment had been made by him directly. Further he admitted that he had 
aot objected to any appointment made of polling agents by the Congress workers 
in the blank forms which had been supplied by him with his signatures. 

63. The position, therefore, is that Bishan Smgh as the election agent of the 
respondent nad signed blank forms purporting to act under Section 46 of the 
Act read with Rule 13. The question is are the polling agents appointed by the 
Congress workers on the basis of such signed blank forms to be taken to be 
nomination by the Election Agent. It was contended that section 46 is to be 
read alongwith the provisions of sub-section (7) of section 123 of the Act. The 
name of the polling agent having been filled in by the Congress workers such 
action was, if at all, an act by an agent on behalf of the respondent. Under 
explanation (l'j to sub-section (7) of section 123 an agent “includes an election 
agent, a polling ugent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent in 
connection with the election with the consent of the candidate’’. Some Congress 
workers who might have filled in the blank polling agent appointment form 
with the name Of the polling agent Beant Singh will come within the category 
of “any person” who might nave acted as an agent in connection with the elec- 
tion, for attracting the provisions contained in clause (b) or (f) of sub-section 
(7) of section 123. Such an “agent” must, under explanation (1), be shown 
to have acted “with the consent of the candidate”. 

64. As I have indicated already the appointment of the polling agent was 
in the circumstances of this case an act by Bishan Smgh when he signed the 
polling agent appointment forms authorising some person or other to fill in the 
names. The action of such other persons is the action by the Efection Agent 
himself. The nomination of Beant Singh was, therefore, an appointment by the 
election agent himself. 

65. Even if the argument advanced on behalf of the respondent be accepted, 
the position of the respondent will not in any way improve. When the action 
by the Congress workers in filling in the names in the blank forms was under 
the authority given to them by the election agent it. is to be piesumed to be 
with the consent of the candidate also. It is admitted by the Respondent and 
his election agent that neither would have objected to this appointment, even 
if they hud known that he was a Sarpanch. 

This line of argument had been adopted by the counsel for the respondent 
with a view to build' up the argument that if the appointment of Beant Singh 
he not either by the candidate himself or by his election agent hut by some 
other person without the consent, of the candidate, the appointment of Beant 
Smgh as polling ugent would not be a corrupt practice coming under clause (b) 
of sub-section (1 ) of section 100. Clause (b') requires that the corrupt practice 
has been committed either by a returned candidate or by his election agent 
or by any other person with the consent, of the returned candidate or of his 
election agent. If the signing of the blank forms be interpreted to have the 
effect that the person filling in the name of the polling agent was the persoa 
who appointed Beant Singh that would not come under clause tb) of sub-section 
(1) of seqtion 100, but it would come, if it would come at all, under sub-clause 
(iv) of clause (d) of sub-section 1 of section 100. In such a case under the 
opening words of clause (d) the orjus lies on the petitioner to show that by the 
appointment of Beant Singh, a Sarpanch, “the result of the election, in so far 
as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected”. In such a 
big constituency with hundreds of polling booths arid in the absence of any 
evidence that. Beant Singh had done anything except working ae a polling agent, 
it will be difficult to support the hew that his appointment as poRmg agent 
had affected the result of the election materially. It was contended, therefore,, 
that in Ihe absence of any direct proof that the consent of the returned candidate 
or his election agent had been given, it was rot a corrupt practice which would 
materially affect the result of the election. 

As I have pointed out already that there i> »o escape from the concluaion 
that the admitted and uncontradicted fact remains that Beant Singh had actad 
as a polling agent and that *uch appointment had bean made fey tha alectio* 
agent himself. 



543 


S*r. 3 (ii)] THE GAZE1 IE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHAI.GUNA 18, 1880 


66. The criticisms by the Respondent are of no avail as the Supreme Court 
has very recently in Dr. Parmar’s case (Parmar v. Hira Singh Paul decid- 
ed on October 17, loss') clearly laid down that signing blank forms for the 
appointment of polling agents is not a defective appointment, and the candidate 
himself in the present case frankly admitted that such acts had been done by 
his election agent under the very general authority given by him to his agent. 
This objection therefore fails. 

67. Mens rea . — It has also been contended on behalf of the Respondent that 
even if it be found that Beant Singh was in the service of the Government and 
heid one or other posts described in sub-section (7) of Section 123, it will not 
be sufficient merely to prove that he had acted as a polling agent on behalf 
of the Respondent. It will be for the Tribunal to find out whether there was 
a corrupt mind or jn other words whether there was mens rea. The language 
used in sub-section (7 ) of section 123 is that if a candidate or his agent or by 
any other person obtains, procures or abets or attempts to obtain and procure 
the assistance for the furtherance of the prospect of the candidate's election 
of any person answering the description as given in the different clauses of that 
sub-section a corrupt practice js committed. 

68. The Respondent placed reliance on the Bradford Case 1 O’M&H. 35. When 
a statute provides against a candidate “corruptly” doing something in order to be 
elected, it must be shown that a thing was done with an evil mind. There must 
bo some evil motive in it and it must be done “in order to be elected”. 

69. Field J. had jn a later case Borough of Barrow In Furness 4 O’M & H 76 
(79 1 ) traced the historical development of the law relating to distribution of 
refreshment as an illegal or corrupt practice in an election. There was at com- 
mon law as well as by statute a prohibition of everything corrupt “meaning 
thereby not an immoral thing, but the international infringement of the law for 
securing the free exercise of the franchise". See also Schofield on Local Govern- 
ment Elections (3rd Edition), page 280, Schofield’s Parliamentary Elections (2nd 
Edition), pages £01 to 402. Offences associated with elections in England are 
of two types; common law offences and statutory offences. In the last century 
statutes had in effect covered the common law offences by giving them statutory 
definitions in corresponding sections. After such statutory enactments, the major 
portion of the common law provisions were superseded. The statutory offences 
now fall into three categories' corrupt practices, illegal practices and election 
offences. There is a fundamental difference between a corrupt and an illegal 
practice — 


“to establish the former, it is essential lo show that a corrupt intention is 
present, A corrupt practice is a thing the mind goes along, whereas 
an illegal practice is a thing the legislature is determined to pre- 
vent whether it is done honestly or dishonestly. To make the doing 
of an act corrupt, it must be done with an evil mind with the know- 
ledge that it is wrong and with evil feelings and evil intentions.” 
Schofield relies on the two decisions referred to above for the pro- 
position as enunciated above, 

7*. It is overlooked by the learned Counsel for the Respondent that there 
is a fundamental difference between the English rules and those by which Indian 
elections are governed. As observed by Field J. in Barrow In Furness ease 
(Supra') on page 79 of the Report that before the English Act 1854, giving of 
refreshments on the spot where the polling was taking place was not bribery 
or illegal treating. The Act of 1854 put a stop to it because it tended to corrup- 
tion. “Therefore, the Act of 1854 distinctly provided that it should be an 
illegal practice and the penalty should be S. 40” |T7 and 18 Viet. C. 102 S 2J 
now repealed.] Under the Corrupt Practices Act of 1883, giving of refresh- 
ments to voters on the day of polling on account of his having polled was made 
illegal only, All the items which were considered to be corrupt practices under 
the English Act were also offences punishable as crimes, 

Reference has already been made to the drastic changes which were intro- 
duced in the Indian Law by the 1956 — amendments. Previously there had been 
under the Indian Law two types of corrupt practices as also illegal practices. 
At present there is only one type of corrupt practice and all references to illegal 
practices have been omitted, On the language used and the different circum- 
at a rices ruling under the Indian law there cannot be any room for argument 
that the presence of mens rea is essential to prove the committing of a corrupt 
practice. The plea of the respondent that it w<u not known to the person con- 
carnsd air. tha Respondent and hie Election Agent that Beant Singh wag a- 



544 ™ r-A/Eri'R of indi\. march 7, n-sa/rn\u.uNA is. iMt [part n 


Sarpanch and the absence of mens reft would even on the proof of such a person 
being appointed a polling agent is not available to tlie respondent. This con- 
tention, therefore, cannot be accepted. This view also has the approval of the 
Supreme Court in the judgement just delivered on October 17 1958 m Y. -S 

Parmur v. llxra Singh Paxil. 


71. Arclhang or U rdhan .- — Before I take up the principal question convassed 
whether a Sarpanch comes within the mischief of section 123 (7) of Ihc Act 
.another short point taken about the identity of Beant Singh may be disposed 
■of. Under item ISlo, 3 ol Sotn duic ‘C attached to the petition, Beant Singh 
as alleged to be the Sai ranch of Ardhang. When Beant Singh was being 
examined as P.W. 1, his village home is stated to he at Urdhau, Tehsil AjnaJa, 
A! flic time of argument it wus faintly suggested that Beant Singh of Ardhang 
was not tlie same person as Beant Singh of Urdhan. There does not appear 
to he any substance in this. The pronunciations of the two words are so very 
similar. Tljc English transcriptions of such sounds become deceptive- — no 
importance can be attached to such differences. There is further no suggestion 
that in Tehsil A.mala there arc two places Urdhan and Ardhang. The exami- 
nation and cross-examination of the different witnesses proceeded throughout 
the hearing on the footing that although spelt in different ways, the village 
referred to by the v.itneas was the same as in the petition. No new case j has 
been attempted to be made by the petitioner and both tlie parties have pro- 
ceeded on the fotting ilial Beant Singh who deposed is Beant Singh refened 
to in the petition and Beant Singh who had acted as the polling agent of the 
respondent was the same person who had appeared as witness or had been 
mentioned in the election petition. 

72. Is a Sarpanch in the service of the Government '!■ — The conclusion, there- 

fore, on this part of the case is that Beant Singh was a Sarpanch and had been 
engaged by the Election Agent of the Respondent as a polling agent in Polling 
■Station Chowgaon. Although in the written statement it was alleged that 
appointment 03 a polling agent cannot be regarded as obtaining assistance of 
a person in the furtherance of the prospect of the candidate’s election, the 
leumed counsel, however, rightly did not raise any question based upon such 
defence. Explanation (1) to sub-section (7) of section 123 of the Act, makes 
it abundantly clear that the appointment, of a person as a polling agent is 
obtaining the assistance of such a person for the furtherance of the prospect 
of the election. 1 


73. The only question, therefore, that falls to lie considered is whether a 
Sarpanch comes within any one of tlie different categories of persons consider- 
ed to be in the service of Government us described in clauses (a) to (g) of sub- 
section (T) of section 123 of the Act. It has to be noticed at the very outset 
that the provisions of this sub-section had been matei4bl]y altered under the 
1956 amendment. The nature of the changes will have to be considered when 
reference is made to the decisions based upon tlie unamended section. I indi- 
cate now the implications of the different provisions of this sub-section. It is 
noticed that under some of the heads a limited number of government officers 
are included and according to both the parties some of the sub-clauses are not 
attracted at all m the present case. Whatever may be the doubt and dispute 
about the nature of the office held by a Sarpanch, he is not a gazetted officer 
or a stipendary judge or a stipendary magistrate or a member ot the armed 
forces of the Union or of the police forces or an Excise officer. No notification 
has been issued under clause (g) of sub-section (7) and it is, therefore, neces- 
sary to ascertain whether a Sarpanch comes under either sub-clause (b) or 
(f). On behalf of the petitioner it is argued that a Sarpanch comes under 
clause (f), ».e. he is a revenue officer. He is also functioning as a Magistrate, 
that is he comes under both clauses (f) and (b’). He is not in receipt of any 
pay and therefore, it is argued on behalf of the petitioner that clause (bl is 
to be interpreted as referring to Judges who are in receipt of remuneration, 
but in the ease of Magistrates the qualifying word ‘stipendiary’ does not apply. 

74 Before I deal further with implications and connotations of clauses (b) 
and (f) of sub-section (7) of section 123, a detailed reference will have to lee 
made to the provisions of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act, 1952 (Punjab Act 
4 of 1953). Beant Singh was appointed as a "Sarpanch under this Act. We 
have to ascertain, the nature of the office of a Sarpanch, how he is appointed, 
what are his duties and functions'. 1 have been taken with meticulous care 
by the lawyers on both sides through the provisions of this Act and I shall 
refer to the more important provisions as pointed out by the parties, and in 
.addition to some more. 



Sek. 3 (ii)J THE (GAZETTE Of INDIA : MARCH 7. 1%‘J/ffiIALUl \A 16, 1880 


545 


. , ' Punjab Gram Panchayat Act, panchayats were brought into 

w\ S .-,, 1 i' C +vr° r * p ?, rp ° sp vesting such panchayats and/or some of the olfice- 
u! elfc l° f w, i h functions which in the past used to be discharged by 
Pnm'hn™V 10 r. tleS i ® e< \ tlon3 f 1 '* defines a panch as a member of a Gram 
• a (constituted under section 5 of the Act I or a panchayat. union or 

D Panchayat and “includes a Sarpanch”. Under clause (1) of Section 3 

Po^frAi! nd 5 sarpanch are public servants under section 91 of the Indian 
■ t' P s f a u( 5S ]l mer| t and constitution of gram panchayat are detailed 

v , ‘ Sub-section (5) of section 5 details the disqualifications for being 
8 P an uhayat and includes among others all the qualifications 
V? POr * appointment in public service fsce clause (c)l. Section 6 lays 
doyn the powers and jurisdiction of gram and adalti panchayats. 


76. Every Gram Panchayat is under section 8 by name a body corpoiate. 
After a gram panchayat is formed a sarpanch is elected by the panches under 
section 9 Irom 1 amongst themselves A sarpanch may under section 11 he 
removed if atleast Iwo thirds of the panchcs vote for such removal Provisions 
are made for the filling up of casual vacancies and in case of default or if 
sufficient number of panchcs are not elected the government may proceed to fill 
in the vacancies; such persons to hold office for the unexpired portion of the term 
of tile person in whose place the appointment is made Section 19 of the Act 
details the various duties of a gram panchayat. The majority of such duties are 
to make arrangements for carrying nul the requirements of the area over which 
the gram panchayat functions in lespect of various matters including sanitation, 
supply of water, burial and cremation grounds, public health, husbandry, sports 
and gardens libraries registrations of seals of livestock, development of agri- 
culture .maintenance of a grain fund, construction, repair and maintenance ol 
public places and ot public util it v concerns, maintenance of culverts and bridges,, 
veterinary, medical relief, famine relief and “any other matter which govern- 
ment may declare to be fit and pioper to be taken under the control and adminis- 
tration of the Gram Panchayat”. 'There is an important proviso to nl] the 
different items to the effect that such matters which aie under direct administra- 
tive control of any government or local aulhorit\ such functions will not vest 
in the panchayats unless such duty or power has been transferred or deleg-ded to 
the panchayat by an order of government or of the local authority. 


77. Sub-section (3) of section 19 further provides that it is the duty of the 
gram panchayat to perform 


"(a) The duties of the Panchayat under the Punjab Village and Small 
Town Patrol Act, 1918; and 

“(b) such duties of village headman in connection with village watchmen 
as government may prescribe by rules under Section 39-A of the 
Punjab Laws Act, 1872”. 

78 A Panchayat has got under section 21 the power to require removal of 
encroachments and nuisance of various types and also under section 22 to issue 
general orders above various matters. 

The sanction behind the authority of the panchayat is contained in the penalty 
provision m section 23 for disobedience of a special or general order of the 
panchayat. 

79. Special emphasis was laid on behalf of the petitioner to the provisions 
contained in section 24 of the Act in which on a complaint made or a report 
submitted 'by any person to the gram panchayat that certain public servants like 
a peon, bailiff, constable, chaukidar, forest guard, game watcher, patwari or 
chaukidar had not been functioning properly, the gram panchayat may enquire 
into thei matter and submit a report to the superior officer or to the Deputy 
Commissioner or the Sub-Divisional Officer as the case may be This as also 
sub-section (2) of Section 24 include supervision by the Panchayat over a Pativari. 

80. In clause (f) of sub-section (7) of section 123 patwari is a revenuei officei 
coming within the mischief of that section. It is contended that a sarpanch or 
a panch having the authority to enquire into the working of a patwari might 
require such a patwari to perform the duties imposed upon him by any law or 
rules shows prima facie that a sat panch is the holder of a post which is to be 
considered to be that of a supervising revenue officer. It is further contended 
that the expression used in clause (f) of sub-section (7) of section 123 are 

'‘revenue officers including village accountants such as Patwaris,— and the 

like” unmistakably ropes in the post of a sarpanch as the nature of his duties 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGIJNA 16, ’.1*0 [Faxt II 


and functions are like officers holding positions superior to a patwari. I shall 
further consider this aspect of the question after We have gone through (he 
remaining portion of the relevant provisions of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act. 

Section 25 of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act further provides — 

“A gram panchayat may notwithstanding any law to the contrary, in respect 
of any area within its jurisdiction, enter into contract with govern- 
ment or a local body to collect land revenue or any taxes or duties 
payable to government or a local body on being allowed .such 
collection charges as may be prescribed’’. 

It is urged on behalf of the petitioner that a gram panchayat including the 
sarpanch becomes in such case a body of revenue officers for thei collection of 
revenue or other local duties and taxes. 

81. Under Section 26 of the some Act again, the panchayat is given the 
authority to introduce prohibition within the local area of the pancliayal. The 
panchayat is given the powers and functions of the Collector under the Punjab 
Excise Act, 1914. A resolution passed by the panchayat will be binding upon 
the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, unless it comes within the special circum- 
stances described in the proviso to this section. Does this bring the Pnnchayat 
including the Sarpanch within the mischief of sub-clause (c) [excise officers] of 
clause 7 of sub-section 1 of section 123 of the Representation of the People Act? 

Section 28 of the Act vests authority in the, Sarpanch and if authorised 
m writing by the gram Panchayat in any other panch to enter into and upon any 
building or land in order to make an inspection survey or to execute work 
which the gram panchayat is authorised by this Act or by rules or bye-laws made 
thereunder to make or execute. 

Section 32 of the Act vests in the panchayat control of all public streets, water 
wuys other than canals with certain powers as detailed therein. 

82. Chapter IV of the Act beginning from section 38 details the criminal 
judicial functions of a gram panchayat. Trial of offences described in Schedule 
I-A is vested in the panch. Section 40(2) declares a panchayat to be deemed to 
be criminal court when trying a criminal case. The different kinds of punish- 
ments which a panchayat may on conviction sentence are described in section 48 

Under Chapter V beginning from section 52 are detailed the civil and revenue 
judicial functions of the panch. The nature of the suits to be tried and the 
limits of the jurisdiction are described. The District Judges or the Collectors 
as the case may be are given powers of supervision and of revision Provisions 
of the Indian Oaths Act 1873 are made applicable as also the right to summon 
witnesses or to direct production of papers and documents. Powers for issuing 
summons finality of decisions by the panchayat, are attracted; principles of res- 
judicata and provisions for proceeding against persons for contempt of, court are 
also provided. 

Section 81 of the Act describes the different sources of income which arc to be 
-credited to the gram fund. Clause (d) of that section provides for — 

“10 per cent of the land revenue paid by the gram panchayat area to the 
government”. 

Subject to certain rules and orders a panchayat has also the authority to impose 
taxes. 

83. In chapter IX supervisory- control over the panchayat* is vested in the 
Defputy Commissioner, Sub-Divisional Officer, or Director A Director means 
the Director of Panchayat* appointed under this Act Authority to delegate the 
powers is 'also given. 

. Section 102 vests the Director with the power to suspend a panch and the 
Government to remove any panch on the happening of the contingency mentioned 
under that section. Section 110 requires every policy officer to give immediate 
information to the panchayat of any offence coming to his knowledge which is 
triable by a panchayat and to assist all members and servants of the panchayat 
in the exercise of their lawful authority. Special periods of limitation for certain 
claims and the table of fees realisable by the panchayat for different types of 
proceedings are described in Schedules II and III of the Act, 

84 These are the relevant provisions in the Act from which it will have to be 
decided whether a Sarpanch comes within the mischief of the provision* in Section 
123(7) of the Representation of the People Act. 



Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1389 547 


Decisions 

85 My attention has been drawn by the parties to various decisions. Panch 
and Karpanch are designations used in different States under different Statutes 
and as I shall indicate later the final decision will depend on tjie relevant pro- 
visions under which in the case now before me Beant Singh had been acting as 
a Sarpanch. It will, however, be necessary to refer to the decisions to ascertain 
the trend of opinion in the different States. 

86. There are conflicting decisions about Panches and Sarpanches being either 
village officers or government servants. All the four decisions are on interpreta- 
tion of the U.P. Panchayat Ha.i Act of 1947. Two of them are by the Gorakhpur 
Tribunal; Madan Pal v. Rajdeo Upadhya, 6 E.L.R. 28 (1953b and Shibbal Lai 
Saksena v. Hanslianker Prasad, 9 E.L.R. 403 (1954). Adalti Panehes, Adalti 
Sarpanches, Sarpanches, Sabhapatis, Up-subhapaties and Mukhias are persons 
serving under the government of a State under the then provisions of section 
123(8) and obtaining their assistance for thci furtherance of the prospect of a 
candidate's election constituted a corrupt practice. The latter case went up on 
appeal to the Supreme Court and is reported as Harishanker Prasad v. Shibban 
Lai Saksena 10 E.L.R. 126. The Supreme Court came to the conclusion that by 
•whatever name he is called, a Mukhia is a village head-man and in any event 
a village officer, Employment of Mukhia to canvass was under the old pro- 
visions of section 123(8) of the Act a major corrupt practice sufficient to render 
an election void. 

87. A contrary view had been expiessed in Deo Chand v Vashist Narain. 6 
E.L.R. 138 (1953) and Ganga Prasad Pathak v. SaUgram Jaiswal, 11 E.L.R. 415 
(1956). Mukhia, Sabhapatis and Panehes of U.P. were held not to be employed 
by the State, and not, therefore, government servants within the meaning of the 
then section 123(8). In the latter case also Sarpanches and Panches, Pradhan, 
Up-pradhan and members of the Land Managing Committees under the same U.P. 
Panchayat Raj Act, 1947, were found not to be serving under the, government of 
U.P. to attract sub-section (8) of section 123 of the Representation of the People 
Act. Mukhias, however, were held to be persons serving under the government 
■of the State under that sub-section. 

88. It will be necessary in this connection to consider the provisions contained 
in sub-section (8) of section 123 before, the 1956 amendment and to compare 
the same with the existing provisions. 

Provisions of the old sub-section (8) of section 123 before the 1956 amend- 
ment were in the following terms— 

“123(8). The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or 
procure by a candidate or his agent or, by any other person with *the 
connivance of a candidate or his agent, any assistance for the 
furtherance of the prospects of the candidate’s election from any 
person serving under the Government of India or the Government 
of any State other than the giving of vote by such person.’’ 

Explanation . — For the purposes of this clause — 

(a) a person serving under the Government of India shall not include any 

person who has been declared by the Central Government to be a 
person to whom the provisions of this clause shall not apply; 

(b) a person serving under the Government of any State shall include a 

patwari, chaukidar, dafedar, zaildar, shanbagh, karnam, tulati, talari, 
patil, village munsif, village headman or any other village officer, by 
whatever name he is called, employed in that State, whether the 
office he holds is a whole-time office or not, but shall not include any 
person (other than any such village officer as aforesaid) who has 
been declared by the State Government to be a person whom the 
provisions of this clause shall not apply.’’ 

It will be noticed that in the first paragraph of this sub-section there was a general 
tan against obtaining assistance “from any person serving under the Govern- 
ment of India or Government of anv State other than the giving of vote by such 
person’’. The Explanation was added, clause (a) of which £ave option to the 
Government of India to exclude certain persons from the operation of the operative 
portion of the section. Clause (b) of the Explanation made it clear that certain 
named group of officers whether holding a whole-time office^ or not shall be 
-deemed to be a person serving under the Government. Within this category 



54* 


THE GAZE 1 TE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1R19/FHALG IJN A IB. lf»# [Rari II 
* 


were mentioned among others the village headman “or any other village officer 
by whatever name he is called.” In the decisions referred to above, the Tribunal 
and the Supreme Court were called upon to consider whether a Sarpanch or a 
Panch came withjn the expression village headman or any other village officer. 
The Supreme Court held that Mukhia under the U.P. Act was a village headman 
or at least a village officer. 


89. That which was sub-section (8) of Section 123 before the passing of the 
amending Act 27 of 1956, has now become sub-section (7) of Section 123. The 
entire provisions contained in Chapters I apd II of Part VII of the original Act 
was substituted by the 1956-umendmg Act by one Chapter only which contains 
only one section 123 A major alteration eifected was to the effect that under 
ihe' old provisions Chapter I dealt with corrupt practices and Chapter II with 
illegal practices. In Chapter I again there were two sub-divisions' and corrupt 
practices were grouped under two heads as major and minor corrupt practices. 
All these have now been substituted by one type of corrupt practice without any 
sub-division of major or minor corrupt practices and the total deletion of illegal 
practices. 

90. The other major and significant alteration effected was in excluding a 
large section of government seivants from the operation of this penal provision 
The general bar against all persons in the service of government has now been 
substituted b> limiting the ban to certain definite categories of persons in the 
sei vice of government The very wide provisions, therefore, have now been 
substituted bv the restricted provis’ons in sub-section (7j of section 123. In the 
case now before me it is not necessary to consider ail the different clauses in 
this sub-section as admittedly a Sarpanch does not fall within clauses (a), (c), 
(d), (e) of sub-section (7). The petitioner claims that a Sarpanch falls under 
clauses (b) and (f) of sub-section (7). The relevant provisions of the sub-section, 
therefore, for the purpose of the present decision may be quoted as follows: — 

"123(7). The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or 
procure by a candidate or his agent or, by any other person, any 
assistance (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of the 
prospects of that candidate’s election, from any person in the service 
of the Government and belonging to anv of the following clauses, 
namely: — 

• • * * » * 

(b) stipendiary judges and magistrates; 

« * * * * * 

* * * * * * 

(f) revenue officers including village accountants, such as, patwaris, lekh- 
pals, talatis, karnams and the like but excluding other village officers; 
and 


* m * * * * 

Explanation . — (1) In this section the expression “agent” includes an election 
agent, a polling agent and any person who is held to have acted as 
an agent m connection with the election with the consent of the 
candidate. 

(2) For the purpose of clause (7), a person shall -be deemed to assist in the 
furtherance of the prospects of a candidale’s_ election if lie acts as 
an election agent, or a polling agent or a counting agent of that candi- 
date.” 

91. It would be noticed that in the first paragraph of the present sub-section 
(7) the qualifying words ‘‘with the connivance of the candidate or his agent” 
appearing after “hv any other person” have been dropped, thus removing the 
restriction which was there under the old provisions. Obtaining or attempting 
to obtain etc the assistance of the prohibited persons whether by the. candidate, 
his agent or by any other person is placed under the same category. Any other 
person without the candidate’s or his agent’s conniving at it may now do some- 
thing which will entail' the candidate a forfeiture of his seat. 

92. In the first paragraph again the expression “persons serving under the 
Government of India or the Government of any State” has been changed to “any 
person in the service of Government". It has been contended before me on 



549 


Sttc. ^ (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


behalf of the respondent that the alteration made has restricted the group of 
persons who are barred out. Serving under the government included within its 
ambit persons who were, in the employ of government, as also who were not 
employed but weie working in the government. It was stated that honorary 
magistrates serve under the government, but they are not m the service of 
government as they do not draw any puy and are not governed by the Govern- 
ment Servants’ Conduct Rules generally. It was als'o stated that the leave rules 
applicable to Government servants were not attracted. I should, however, state 
that the relevant rules in cither case were not placed before me, but only a bald 
statement was made. Such rules have not been also made available to me. 
Secondly, it is contended that person serving the government even in an Advisory 
Committee would come under the old law but not under the new provisions. 
Thirdly, all persons serving under the Government were_ previously included 
whereas now only those specifically mentioned in clauses (a) ‘to (g) of sub-section 
(7) of section 123 as may be in the service of government. 

93, I do not think that such a sharp difference in implication of the two 
expressions “persons serving under the government” and "persons in the service 
of government” would be justified. 

Clause (b) of sub-section (7) of section 123 excludes all “stipendiary judges and 
magistrates” who may be in the service of government from being asked to 
assist any candidate for the furtherance! of the prospects of his election. There 
is no doubt that only such judicial officers who are in receipt of emoluments are 
included within the expression ‘stipendiary judges’. According to the respondent 
the qualifying word Stipend. ary’ qualifies both judges and magistrates. The 
petitioner on the other hand contends that while only judges who are in receipt 
of emoluments are brought within the clause, in the case of magistrates irrespective 
of the fact whether remuneration is received or not they come within the ban, 
This question is not altogether free from doubt and difficulty. Ordinarily the 
adjective qualifies both the words ‘judges’ and ‘magistrates’. Is there any special 
provision in this statute justifying the limitation being applied only to the first 
category and not to the second? It was oigued on behalf of the petitioner that 
honorary magistrates will come within the ban whereas honorary judges will 
not. It is, however, overlooked that under clause (a) of this sub-section all 
‘gazetted officers’ are brought within the ambit of the restriction and honorary 
magistrates are as a rule gazetted officers and also technically Justices of the 
Peace, 

94, In my view only stipendiary Judges and Magistrates are excluded. Clause 
(b) will not be attracted in the. present case as Sarpanches as such are not in 
receipt of any personal emoluments. 

95, Clause (f) of sub-section (7) of Section 123 creates greater difficulty. All 
revenue officers whether paid or honorary appear to be. included by the two 
opening words. Other words which follow them clearly indicate that officers 
mentioned thereafter do not constitute an exhaustive list of all revenue officers, 
because such other persons arc brought in by the use or the word ‘including’. It 
is unquestionable that when an expjanatory clause or phrasei is added followed 
by the word ‘including’ the words subsequently used cover merely some of the 
ground and do not exhaust the whole field of revenue, officers. Revenue officers 
are, therefore, not qualified or restricted by village accountants, but they are 
merely explanatory. Village accountants are mentioned only to rule out any 
doubt as to whether holders of such posts are revenue officer^ or not. 

96, After Village accountants are described posts like patwari, lekhpal, talati 
and karnam. The designations so given are the special names used in different 
parts of the country in the revenue administration. But the legislature has made 
it abundantly clear that Kevcnue officers or village accountants are not Lmited 
to the four particular types of officers named, but such officers as are similar 
to those in all the different States in India. The addition of the words “and the 
like” makes that perfectly clear. So all these persons fall withiu the bar, being 
classed as Revenue Oiliceis and Village Accountants, 

97, The concluding clause is “but excluding other village officers”. Doubts 
and disputes arise about, the implication of this proviso. Is this a limitation to 
Village Accountants or to revenue officers? Tho expression “revenue officers” is 
a very wide term and does not include only persons working in or having 
jurisdiction within villages. Revenue Officers are. connected with the revenue 
work in the State as a whole or in a Division, District, sub-division or other 
areas. A village is a unit over which thtre may be revenue officers and it is 



550 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Part II 

argued that the expression revenue officers include withm the category all super- 
visory revenue officers, but exclude all village revenue officers except village 
accountants. The intention of the legislature is that all revenue officers in the 
country whatever may be their jurisdiction or scope of work are included; pro- 
vided that of village officers only those who are village accountants or those who 
are of the same type as the four named categories come within the ban. Village 
accountants are not defined and persons who are of the categories of Patwans, 
Lekhpals, Talatis, Karnams and the like, are to be determined in each particular 
case with reference to the rules about their appointment, or dismissal, and duties 
or functions. The term ‘revenue’ also is not limited to ‘land revenue’ only — but 
may refer to all kinds of realisations by the Centre or State — viz. custom, Sales 
Tax etc. I need not, however, for the present case, discuss this aspect of the 
question and the wider implications of the expression, 

98. The term ‘revenue officer’ is also not restricted only to such persons as 
may be described as such in any particular local Statute. The functions and 
duties of each class of person objected to in any particular case will be required 
to be examined. 

99. The. expression “excluding other village officers” exclude from the operation 
of this provision all village officers, except village accountants ‘‘such as patwans, 
lekhpals, talatis, karnams and the like”. The reason for the specific exclusion of 
‘‘other village officers” is due to the circumstance that the general classification 
of ‘‘village accountants” will include “accountants”, who may not be concerned 
with ‘Revenue’ only but may be accountants in other departments of the adminis- 
tration. Accountants for thei collection of local charges, not recognised as 
‘revenue’— as District Board, Local Board or Panchayati levies will not fall 
within the ban. 

100. Further, the word ‘accountant’ indicates that his vocation or function is 
to keep or adjust accounts — he is also required to render accounts of collections 
made or expenses incurred. This also includes those who are employed to 
examine the accounts maintained by the primary officers. If the jurisdiction of 
such ‘accountants’ is not limited to a ‘village’ but is a wider one he will not be 
‘a village accountant' but may come under the wider general term of ‘revenue 
officers’ as in this sub-clause. The provision “excluding other village officers” 
will not restrict the scope of the term “revenue officers” such persons having 
jurisdiction over areas wider than “villages”. 

101. It has also to be noticed that the legislature found it impossible to indicate 
by name all the categories of “village accountants” known by different names in 
different parts of India. Certain illustrative types called from different States 
qre mentioned. To avoid the interpretation that only the specified village 
accountants are included that the expression “and the. like” has been added. But 
the language used has introduced certain other doubts and difficulties, Legisla- 
tion has been undertaken in recent years in the different States of India and 
changes have been introduced in the method of appointment and dismissal of 
the officers known previously as ‘patwaris’ etc. Their powers and functions also 
are and have been altered — various new duties and responsibilities are being 
imposed on such persons, still known by their old designations — such powers 
being as varied as judicial, magisterial, civic, police etc. When designations not 
specifically named in the sub-section are required to be considered for determining 
whether they are of the type of ‘patwaris, lekhpals’ etc. the Court is faced with 
a difficulty in comparing the, respective rules about appointment, dismissal, powers, 
duties and functions. Those will not be similar in many respects. How are they 
to be compared? The rule of eiusdum genuis will be attracted — but even then the 
rules of the named classes are so very variable and different that difficulties are 
felt for striking at a common characteristic for all. 

102. The way out of this difficulty will be to consider "patwaris, lekhpals, 
talatis and karnams”, irrespective of the changed or changing rules, to come 
within the purview of the penal clause, of clause (f) of sub-section (7) of Section 
123 of the Act. 

103. If any other class of village accountants be attempted to be brought in 
on the strength of the expression “and the like” the test to be applied will be 
to find out whether such persons are (1) accountants (2) having jurisdiction over 
a village and (3) are required to deal with the collection or disbursal of "revenue". 
If they satisfy all the three conditions, only then can they come under the cate- 
gory of ‘village accountants’. If those persons, with new designations are not 
required to deal with ‘revenue’ but have to discharge other functions, not relating 
to accounting of revenue, but may be similar to some or other functions (of a 



55 1 


Me. 3 (ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGtJNA 10, 1880 


non-revenuei and accounting character) that will not be sufficient to attract clause 
(f) of sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act. 

104. Even though such a person cannot fall within the categories as in clause 
(f) that will not rule out the possibility of his being affected by any other clause- 
lie may be a gazetted, officer, or a stipendiary judge or magistrate or an excise 
officer or the like. 

105. It has further to be remembered what the Supreme Court has laid down— 

(1) That receipt of any allowance or salary is not essential for proving that 

a person is in the service of government: 

Provided that in the case of “stipendiary judges an'd magistrates” as in 
clause (b) receipt of remuneration is essential. 

(2) It is immaterial whether the person is in wholetime or part-time 

employment. 

106. Applying these tests m the case now before me is a Sarpanch a ‘village 
accountant* or even a 'revenue officer’ under clause <f) of sub-section (7) of 
Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act in addition to his being “in 
the service of government”? 

From the analysis of the duties and functions as in the Punjab Gram Panchayat 
Act it is clear that a Sarpanch, as u member of the Gram Panchayat, functions 
as a Court for certain causes — with the powers of a judge and of a magistrate. 
He has also to discharge various functions of a civic nature. None of those bring 
him within clause (f). The only function which may have some connection with 
revenue aro — Lhe powers of enquiry, under section 24(1), and supervision over, 
under section 24(2) of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act, the patwari, These 
functions are not such as would bring him within the category of a Village 
accountant’. Will these functions make a Sarpanch ‘a revenue officer’? In my 
view they will not. The characteristics of the position of an ‘officer’ is that lie 
has got an executive function. Authority to receive a complaint or to submit 
a report about the work ot a patwari carries with it no executive function 
sufficient in scope and character to make such a person ‘an officer’. Sub-section 
(2) of Section 24 of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act, gives an authority to 
the Gram Panchayat on i eccipt of a complaint to require the Patwari “to perform 
the duty" he is reported to have failed to perform. In this case there is an 
element of directive in the function of the Gram Panchayat. If the patwari does 
not carry out the direction the Gram Panchayat may report to the Superior 
Officer concerned or to the Deputy Commissioner or to the Sub-Divisional Officer. 
This may raise some doubt and difficulty but I need express no Anal opinion as 
even then the petitioner has to show that the Sarpanch is a person “in the service 
of government. 1 

On a scrutiny of the relevant provisions of the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act 
already made in the earlier part of this judgment it will appear that members 
of the panchayat are public servants under Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code 
and the panchayat is under section 8 a body corporate. These do not, however, 
make the members of the panchayat persons in the sendee of government. The 
expression ‘person in the service of government’ connotes that he must be holding 
an appointment under the government. Mere vesting of some responsibility of 
jurisdiction in another body corporate or any member of such a corporate body 
do not Ipso-facto convert them into persons in the service of government. A 
Sarpanch is neither appointed nor can be dismissed by the government. Mere 
powers of superintendence over a statutory body corporate like a municipality 
or the like or of certain officers or office holders of that corporation do not make 
either the body corporate or its officers persons “in the service of government”. 
This also 1 have explained already while explaining the connotations of the 
different terms appearing in sub-section (7) of Section 123. 

107. The conclusion reached, therefore, is that the Respondent Surjit Singh 
Majithia is proved to have obtained for the furtherance of his prospects of his 
■election, the assistance of Beant Smgh a Sarpanch who had been appointed as 
his polling agent at Chogawan by his Election Agent Bishan Singh. But a 
Sarpanch under the Punjab Gram Panchayat Act, 1952, is not included in either 
of clauses (b) or (f) of sub-section (7) of Section 123 of the Representation of 
the People Act. Such utilization of the services of Beant Singh was not, therefore 
a corrupt practice under Section 123 of the Act. In that view the election of the 
Respondent cannot be questioned on this ground. Issue No. 6 is answered 
accordingly. 



552 


THE GA 


OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 19 r >9/ ALGUNA 16, 


[Part II 


Issue NO. 7 — 

103 Under item No. 10 of Schedule C attached to the petition, the Petitioner 
had alleged that the Respondent had threatened certain voters not to vote for 
the petitioner but to vote for him. As will appear from the particulars furnished 
under item No. 10 the respondent is alleged to have threatened the petitioner’s 
voters in the polling camp of Falehabad and Khawaspur. 8 persons are mentioned 
as having been threatened. Of the 8' persons named, the Petitioner has examined 
Kartar Smgh P.W-2, Janmeja Singh P.W-7 and Bijay Singh P.W-3. Kartar Singh, 
P.W-2, alleges that ill the presence of Lambardar Balwant Singh and Chet Singh 
and a large number of people, respondent himself threatened them to do harm 
if the respondent was not supported. It was in camp Fatehabad and it is alleged 
that a lot of quarrel was going on. In course of cross-examination repeated 
references were madei to the different proceedings which were pending against 
him alongwith Dayat Singh, Petitioner and his two sons or against him an$ 
Ravisher Singh, the son of the petitioner or to his appearing as a witness in 
certain proceedings which were filed by thei Gram Panchayat against Jagan 
Nath. The evidence produced, oral and documentary, leave no room for doubt 
that he is associated with the Petitioner and his son and had been connected with 
various proceedings in court. Kartar Singh alone speaks about the incident at 
Fatehabad. 

109. Bijay Singh, P.W-3 speaks about the incident at Khawaspur. The 

g ersons in whose presence the threat was giyen by the Respondent were Teja 
ingh, Duni Chand, Dalip Singh, Bachittar Singh, all of the same village. This 
threat is alleged to have been given in the camp of S. Partap Singh Kairon who 
was the candidate for the Assembly seat from the same constituency and was at 
a distance of about 200 yards from the polling station. He is related to Bachhitar 
Singh and was the polling agent of S. Partap Singh Kairon at Khawaspur. It 
came out in evidence that as the Respondent was a congress candidate for the 
parliamentary seat from this constituency and lor the assembly seat the congress 
candidate was S. Partap Singh Kairon. According to thq Respondent’s witnesses 
who aro the Secretaries of. the local Congress Committees, arrangements at the- 
different centres were made by the congress for both the assembly and the parlia- 
mentary seats. P.W-3, however, stated that the camp of S. Partap Singh was 
also the camp for the Petitioner Dayal Singh. Identity slips for S. Partap Singh 
and the petitioner Dayal Singh were alleged being issued by the same set of 
workers for both the candidates and from, the same camp. It was commented on 
behalf of the petitioner that the denial of this fact is deposed by Bijay Singh 
should have come from somebody connected with S. Partap Singh, but the 
respondent has not produced any such evidence. Although it is not absolutely 
impossible that two congress nominees one for the Parliamentary and the other 
for the Assembly seat may not be working in co-operation and helping each other, 
hut such allegation on behalf of the Petitioner should be supported by much 
better evidence than the uncorroborated testimony of P.W-3. This witness 
originally denied having any financial relationship between the petitioner and 
himself, but ultimately had to admit that the mortgagee rights in lands belonging 
to Dayal Singh had been purchased by him from Manmohan Singh near about one 
year ago. Such land is being possessed by this witness through the tenants on 
the land. Janmeja Singh who has been referred to already is alleged by the 
Respondent to have been a witness to the document by which the mortgagee's 
rights of Manmohan Singh were purchased by this witness. Although such, a 
relationship by itself docs not in any way make the witness one who should not 
he believed, but the minncr in which he deposed and a clear denial in thie 
beginning was subsequently transformed into an admission of the allegation, 
shows that the witness was not absolutely straightforward or wholly dependable. 
On such a witness reliance cannot be placed for coming to the conclusion about a 
charge as the present one. 

110. The next Witness is Janmeja Singh, P.W-7 who has already beep referred 
to in connection with the hiring of jeeps, and is alleged to have been a worker 
under .the Respondent. For reasons already discussed he is not a witness on 
whom reliance can be placed. The village is sharply divided into two groups. Of 
one of those the petitioner and his sons are the leaders or atleast the prime factors. 
The witnesses who have come to depose on his behalf all belong to that group. 
Some of Ihe witnesses deposing on behalf of thei Respondent belong to the other 
group. The petitioner himself (P.W-8) has got no personal knowledge about the 
alleged threatening of voters by the Respondent and he has tried to explain the 
genesis of the village fueds and materials have been brought on the record to 
show how serious criminal cases were started against partisan of one party or 
the other. On the proof of the existence of such strong party feelings and of. the 
party affiliation of the three witnesses and in the case of two intimate connections 
with one group make it very difficult to relying upon them implicitly. If their 
statements had been supported by some or other independent witness or witnesses, 
the position might have been different. The witnesses who have deposed definitely 



Sr c 3 (h)] THE GA7ET I E Ol 1M)I\ MARC H 7 I959/EHAI C.UNA 16 18R0 553 


state that such acts on the. part of the respondent at the two centres of Fatehabad 
and Khawaspur were m the presence of a Jmge number of people Could not 
the petitioner find out persons who were not „o intimately connected with one 
or the other group? 

There is another aspect of the question which cannot be overlooked PW 2 
Kartar Singh as it appears from his examination is a partisan Is it natural for 
the Respondent himself to appioach him for supporting him? It is also m evi- 
dence that the respondent neiver visited Fan hi had before the date o r polling and 
as he says he did" not expect much support from this [lace The onus m this 
case is on the petitioner and on the evidence s adduced by the petitioner I am 
not satisfied that the allegations have been proved It is not therefore, necctsary 
to refer in detail to the deposilions of the respondent’s witnesses Had thei 
petitionci’s evidence been of a better type, I might have considered m detail the 
depositions of respondent's witnesses Some of the relevant witnessc exammed 
on behalf of the respondent are RW I Harnam Singh, RW-3 respondent himself, 
R W-6 Amur Singh who was the polling agent of icspondent m Khav, as, par, RW-S 
Parkash Singh who accompanied the respondent to Khawaspur, R W-9 Nahar 
Singh who also accompanied respondent to Khawaspur, and the election agent 
of lespondent, namely, Eishan Singh, RW-11 The respondent has denied the 
allegations made under this head 

111 It was faintly suggested on behalf of the Petitioner that there had 1 een 
subsequent harassment ol the petitioner’s suppoiteis at the instance of the 
Respondent as was attempted to be brought out during the examination of Harnam 
Smgh, who was the Deputy Superintendent of Police at Tarn Taran during the 
relevant period I do not think that the deposition of Harnam Smgh, RWH any 
way proves such subsequent harassment There w re senbus occurrences of a 
criminal nature which ultimately led to the death of a person This wa the 
subject matter of a Sessions trial and I need not dialate upon the observation of 
the couits on this matter It has been stated that this is the subject matter of an 
appeal now pending befoie the High Court Suffice it to say that the mb rpreta- 
tion put upon the depositron of Harnam Smgh R W 1 is not lustified 

112 On the evidence as discussed above. I come to the conclusion that the 
petitioner has fa led to prove that the respondent had threatened the voters as 
-alleged m item 10 of Schedule. ‘C’ of the election petition Issue No 7 is decided 
against the Petitioner and m favour of the Respondent 

Issue No 8— - 

113 This was an issue which was raised on the basis of certam allegations 
made in the election petition that because of a compromise effected between the 
Congress High Command and Master Tura Smgh on behalf of the Akalis, the 
result of the election had been materially affected Master Tara Smgh who had 
been cited as a witness and duly served did not appear on the date fixed When 
the petitioner was asked as to whether he would take any coercive ‘iteps to 
require the attendance of the said witness, he declined to do so and it was staled 
the allegation will not be pressed There aie no materials on the record in 
support of the allegation made It is not, therefore, also necessary for me to 
consider whether such allegation even if proved had been relevant for considt’ - 
tion in the present proceedings During the argument the Counsel for the 
petitioner did not press this issue This issue must be decided against the 
petitionei and m favour of the respondent 

ORDER 

114 I have now dealt with all the issues m the cj.se and the ultimate result 
is that the petitioner has failed to prove that the election of lospondent Surjit 
Smgh Mapthia is affected by any one or more of the groimds indicated 111 Section 
100 of the Repi esentation of the People Act The result, therefore is that the 
petitioner is not entitled to any relief end Issue No 9 does not arise Ibis 
Election Petition is dismissed with costs The Petitionei must pay to this 
Respondent consolidated costs of Rs 750 including the costs icserved under 
previous orders 

November b 1958 

(Sd.) Rama Prasad Mookerjee, 

Election Tribunal, Chandigarh 



554 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Part II 


ANNEXURE I 

Election Petition No. 225 of 1957. 

Shri Dayal Singh — Petitioner, 

Versus 

Shri Surjit Singh Majithia and others* — Respondents. 

Shri M. R. Sawhney—- Counsel for Petitioner. 

Shri Bal Raj Tuli, ") 

Shri Shubh Nath Kapahi, V — Counsels for Respondent. 

Shri Veda Vayasa. J 

Order on Application by Petitioner for furnishing further particulars. 

6th September, 1957. 

Shri Sawhney states that he will press for the consideration of the new 
schedules, attached to the present application, to be taken into consideration. It 
is not necessary according to him to refer to the new petition as he will not rely 
on any statement which appears in the new petition for the first time apart from 
the particulars which are added in some of the new schedules. Our attention, 
therefore, is confined to the original petition taken with two sets of schedules 
one filed originally with the Election Petition and the other set filed on 10th 
August, 1957. 

So far as Schedule A is concerned, the petitioner does not ask for leave to 
add any further or new particulars. 

As regards Schedule B only such items as introduce new particulars need be 
considered. They are stated in the order in which they are given in the petition. 
The other items not referred to below remain unaffected. 

Schedule 'B' ( ti ). — Item (ii) of the original schedule made reference to a 
number of langars. Langars at Ajnala was one of those. In the new schedule, 
Ajnala langar is omitted and langars at three other places are introduced. 
There can be no question that the addition of such new langars will introduce 
instances of new corrupt practices. Reference, therefore, to the three new langars 
at Khadur Sahib, Gandiwind and Sarhali should not be allowed to be added. 

The original allegation was that the langars were rim to feed the workers of 
the candidate. In the new schedule it is added that other electors also were fed 
in the langars. Reference to the electors as being fed in the langars introduced 
a new case which cannot be allowed at this stage. 

In the origmal schedule reference was made to the running of the langar 
during the election compaign, but in the revised schedule, it-is made more definite 
and it is stated that these were run about a fortnight from before the election. 
There is no objection to the period being made more definite by giving the 
particulars. At the end of this sub-item (ii) names of a large number of persons 
are given who had, it is alleged, been taking meals at such langars. All the 
names mentioned except two, namely (a) Dafcdar Kartar Singh; and (b) Puran 
Singh s/o Sham Singh of Tam Taran are to be omitted as all the rest are 
alleged to have taken their meals at langars which are mentioned for the first 
time in the new schedule which have already been directed to be omitted. 

Item (ii), therefore, of Schedule 'B’ as given on the present occasion may be 
accepted subject to the deletion of the three new langars as also the reference 
to the electors and the names of all the persons from (c) to (v). 

Schedule r B’ (vi) . — Item (vi) in the original schedule merely indicated that 
respondent No. 1 had given bribes to the Schedule Caste electors, the names 
and particulars of such persons to he given later. Item (vf) in the new 
schedule has included the names of the electors who had been bribed, the agent 
through whom the bribe had been given, the dates as also the places where 
such bribes had been given. 

Is this permissible under Section 95 of the Representation of the People 
Act? So far as allegations about corrupt practices are concerned Section 83(1) 
(b) requires the petitioner to set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice 
that he may allege Including as full a statement as possible of the names of the 



Sec. 9 (fi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


555 


parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practices and the date and place 
of the commission of each such practice. My attention is drawn to the words 
“as full a statement as possible”. 

The original allegation was that Respondent No. 1 had given the bribes. In 
the new schedule a new case is made that such payment was made by Man 
Singh an agent of the said Respondent. The persons bribed were alleged to be 
scheduled caste electors but in the new schedule there is no such allegation. 
Further the places where the alleged bribes had been given are not stated 
though the stations where they voted are mentioned. It cannot, but he said 
that a materially altered case is attempted to be introduced by this item of the 
new schedule B. I do not think that this can be or should be done. The prayer 
made, therefore, in respect of item (vi) of Schedule B cannot be entertained 
and sub-paragraph (vi) as it originally stood should be deleted as being vague 
and indefinite and without necessary particulars, 

Schedule C Item I . — The petitioner now prays to add the words “in influenc- 
ing the voters of Patti Halqa”. This cannot be done. The original complaint 
was that though Ram Chand was in the pay of the Public Relations Office, he 
was working as a polling agent for respondent No. 1, That was one typo of 
corrupt practice. If Ram Chand would come under any one of the items of 
Section 123(7) of the Representation of the People Act, adding the words that 
Ram Chand was influencing the voters at a particular place this was a corrupt 
practice of a different typo of altogether which had not been pleaded. The 
amended item I in Schedule C cannot, therefore, be accepted. 

Schedule C Item 2. — In the original Schedule the only complaint was that 
an employee of the Union Government had been influencing the electors to vote, 
Neither names nor particulars were given. In the new Schedule a large 
number of names has been put in. The names of persons influenced, the date 
when it was so done, the manner in which such influence was exercised, the 
place where the letter from the person complained of had been circulated are 
all given. Such details introduced at this stage make a complete change of the 
case as each one of those alleged corrupt practices is to be viewed as a separate 
offence. The prayer made cannot be entertained. 

Schedule C Item 5. — The prayer made in this sub-paragraph also is covered 
by the principles governing the prayer made in sub-paragraph 2 above, The 
prayer made is rejected. 

Schedule C Item 7. — Item 7 of Schedule C originally referred to the luring 
of the electors “by promising to offer Rs. one lakh to Khalsa College, Tam 
Taran which has adversely affected the election result against the petitioner 
favouring the respondent No. 1”. 

In the new Schedule the petitioner has explained that the promise of this 
one lakh for raising the Khalsa High School, Tarn Taran to Khalsa College was 
made in a big gathering in the presence of certain persons. 

It is contended on behalf of the respondent that the promise which was 
made was to a college, but there was no such college in existence at the time 
when the alleged promise was made. The language used, however, in the 
original schedule is capable of being the foundation of the petitioner’s case that 
the promise was made for a college to be established. The language used is 
capable of both the interpretations — to a college which is in existence and a 
donation for a college to be established. I do not, therefore, sec any objection 
to the clarification of the point by the additional sentence In the first paragraph 
of item 7 of Schedule C. 

Although in the first paragraph of the new schedule reference is made "to the 
promise having been made before certain persons the names of such persons 
do not appear at the end of the first paragraph. 

In the second paragraph of item 7, re f erenep is now made for the first time 
in the new schedule to certain incidents which had happened after the election 
and fresh promises which had been made at that gathering in addition to those 
referred to in the original petition. Such additions cannot be allowed to he 
made at this stage. The names mentioned at the end of the secortd paragraph 
cannot be taken to be the names of persons who were present at the earlier 



556 the GAZETTE or INDIA: MARCH 7, I959/PHALGUNA 1G, 1880 [Part II 


gathering and before the election. The result, therefore, is that the first para- 
graph of item 7 of Schedule C in the new draft will be accepted in place of 
original paragraph 7. The remaining portion of item 7 in the new schedule 
cannot be accepted. 

Schedule C Item 10,— The names of persons who had been personally 
approached and requested not to vote for the petitioner originally consisted of 
8 names. 7 more have been added In the new petition. Addition of those 
names cannot be allowed. 


Schedule C Item 11. — Item 11 as it originally stood was to the effect that 
J*s. 5,000/- had been paid by respondent No, 1 for getting votes polled by 
scheduled caste electors of Tohsll Ajnala and Khandur Sahib in Tehsil Tarn 
Taran and in Nubi Pur in Halqa Patti. In the new Schedule the petitioner 
probably with the idea to refer to other places has introduced the word ‘etc.’ 
after the names of the tchsils. He has also added the names of ; omc of the 
voters who wore alleged to have been bribed. The original cIrum was vague 
and indefinite. Even with the addition of the names in the new Schedule the 
clause still continues to be vague and without necessary particulars In view of 
the vagueness of item, the same must be deleted. The prayer made is rejected 
and this item is deleted from the petition. 


The petition filed is disposed of. 

September 6, 1957. 

(Sd.) Rama Prasad Mookerjee, 

Election Tribunal, Chandigarh, 

ANNEXURE II 

Election Tribunal Chandigarh 
Election Petition No. 225 of 1957 
Shri Dayal Singh— Petitioner. 

versus 

Shri Surjit Singh Majithla — Respondent. 

Shri Jatindar Vir Gupta — Advocate for Petitioner 
Shri Veda Vvas & 1 

Shri Bal Raj Tuli / Advocates for Respondent, 

Shri S. N, Kapahl J 

Further order on the Prayer by the Petitioner to Furnish Fuller Particulars 


10th February, 1958 

Shri Surjit Singh Majltha was elected during the Iasi General Elections to 
the Parliament from the Tarn Taran Constituency In the District of Amritsar. 
This Election petition was filed by Shri Dayal Singh for having the election of 
Shri Surjit Singh Majithia declared null and void. The latter was named Respon- 
dent No. I and certain other persons had been impleaded as Respondents 2 to 7. 
On the very first date that this case was put up before the Tribunal, a petition 
war filed on behalf of the petitioner for striking off the names of Respondents 2 
to 7 and for consequential amendments in paragraph 3 of the petition. The 
prayer for amendment was net opposed and was allowed, 

2. A written statement on behalf of Shri Surjit Singh Majithia was filed on 
July 22, 1957 and certain objections had been taken inter alia on the ground of 
either vagueness of the allegations made in petition or that fuller particulars 
should be furnished. On July 25, 1957 the counsel for the petitioner preved for 
time to file further particulars. On that date the counsel for the respondent stated 
that he had no objection to further particulars being filed on the next date of 
hearing as gn the authority of 10 E.L.R 357 The petitioner was accordingly 
allowed time till the 10th of August to file further particulars, an advance ropy 
of the same being served on the other side. On August 10, 1957 further particulars 
were filed by the petitioner, a copy of which had previously been served on the 
respondent. The respondent also filed on the same date simultaneously an addi- 
tional written statement in opposition to the petition filed by the petitioner that 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


557 


day Both parties were heard on the prayer made lor receiving further particulars 
On September 6, 1957 directions were given as to what extent further particulars 
would be allowed to be furnished. 

the t”act that furnishing of further particulars was not objected 
to by the Respondent what the .petitioner did was to flic a fresh copy of the 
original petition and annexed thereto Schedules A to C incorporating nbw parti- 
culars as the petitioner wanted to bring in. At the hearing it was held that the 
petitioner was not entitled to file, after the last date for filing an election petition 
had expired, a tresh petition. The only question was to what extent the further 
particulars as in the annexed Schedules would be allowed to be brought in The 
petitioner did not press the acceptance of the amended election petition. The 
arguments on both sides proceeded on the basis of the original election petition 
taken with tile new schedules only which were filed on August 10, 1957. 

4. Schedule A filed on August 10, 1957 was stated by both the parties to be 
indeutical with Schedule A which had already been filed alongwith the original 
election petition. There was no question, therefore, of allowing further or new 
particulars in respect of S' hedule A. 

5. Schedules B and C as originally filed with the election petition were re-filed 
on the lQth August, 1957 with additions and alterations. At the hearing the 
petitioner was directed by the Tribunal to file a tabular statement indicating the 
alterations made in Schedules B and C, compared to the contents of the original 
schedules. After hearing the petitioner for the acceptance of the fuller particulars 
as contained In the new schedules B and C, counsel for the Respondent was heard. 
Some of the all orations in the new Schedules were of a formal character and in 
respet of some others no serious objection was raised. Only in respect of such 
items in the new schedules to which objections were raised on behalf of the 
respondent that the petitioner’s counsel was heard in reply. The order as passed 
on September 6, 1957 included consideration of only such items in the amended 
schedules B and C as had been objected to on behalf of the respondent. Aftpr 
the prayer made by the petitioner to receive ibe amended schedules had been 
disposed of on September 0, 1957. on a prayer made by 'he respondent, it was 
directed on October 23, 1957 that for facility of reference at the subsequent stages 
of the proceedings the petitioner was to file before issues were settled a fresh 
cop> of the revised schedules Incorporating only such items as had been allowed 
by the Tribunal in terms of the order dated September b. 1957. This was agreed 
to on behalf of both sides. After serving an advance copy of the revised particulars 
In terms of the order dated September 6, 1957 the same was filed by the petitioner. 
The respondent was given a further opportunity to file an additional written state- 1 
merit in respect of the amended schedules. This also was duly filed. 

6. Thereafter the two following issues were settled as preliminary issues and 
taken up for consideration as prayed for by both the parties: 

1. Have the petition and schedules been properly verified? If not, what is 
the effect? 


2. Is the petition alongwith amended schedules or any part thereof vague 
and indefinite and if so, should any part of the petition be struck off 7 

7. The verifications were not In accordance with the provisions of the Code of 
Civil Procedure and an opportunity was given to the petitioner to put them in 
proper form This has now been done. 

8. When the other preliminary issue was being heard it was contended on behalf 
of the respondent tha4 the amended schedules as had been filed on November 6, 
1957 were on some point or other not strictly in terms of ihe order passed by me 
on September 6. 1957. Tt was in course of such arguments that Shri Veda Vyas 
prayed for leave to file an application for review of the order dated September 
6. Further hearing of the preliminary issue was adlourned to afford an eppor- 
tunitv to the respondent to file such application as he might be advised and to 
the petitioner to file objection, if any. The preliminary issues to be heard there- 
after. Such an application had been filed and an objection also was filed by the 
petitioner on December 17, 1957. 

9 The subject matter of this the latest application h.v the Respondent is that 
■the petitioner had not been permitted by the Tribunal by its order dated September 
6, to amend item 6 of Schedule C. That item of Schedule C as in the revised 
copy of schedule C filed ’on November fi, should accordingly be corrected and 
be as in the original schedule C filed with the election petition. In the alterna- 
tive It is prayed that if it be held that the order dated September 6, purports to 



558 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ■ MARCH 7, 1959/T’IIALGUNA 16 , I88O [Part II 


include a direction to amplify item 6 of Schedule C the said order be reviewed and 
the further particulars be not allowed to be included In that Item. The petitioner 
has filed an objection to the prayer made by the Respondent. Both sides have- 
been heard at length. 

10. In Schedule C Item 6 as originally filed along with election petition ran as 
follows:— 

“That Inder Singh, Patwari, Fatehabad and S. Suraln Singh, Patwari 
Khuwaspur have been similarly mls-using their official position in 
favour of respondent No. I against the petitioner in iniluencing the 
electors.” 

In the schedule which was filed by the petitioner on August 10, 1957 item 0 
is amplified by adding 9 names of electors Influenced as alleged in the earlier part 
of item 6. In the objection which was filed it was denied that Inder Singh and 
S. Surain Singh had been misusing their official position, The manner and method 
of misusing has not been stated, nor the alleged activity been disclosed. It is 
denied that Inder Singh and Surain Singh, Patwaris have worked for the answer- 
ing respondent in the election in question. 

11. As I have Indicated already on the prayer of noth the parties a tabular 
statement had been filed at the time of argument for clarifying the additions and 
alterations proposed by the petitioner. Arguments were advanced on behalf of 
the respondent and only where objections were raised on behalf of the respondent, 
such objections were dealt with in the order. The counsel for the respondent 
stated that the fact that new names had been added under item 6 in Schedule C 
had been overlooked by him at the time of argument and nc objection was raised 
during argument. Hence the order by the Tribunal had not dealt with the question 
of such additional names. On 'behalf of the petitioner this position is accepted, 
but it is maintained that the revised schedule C was accepted by the Tribunal 
in place of the original schedule C and the respondent is not entitled to come 
up at this state. 

12. It is not necessary for me to go into the question as to whether an applica- 
tion for review would be maintainable in the present circumstances. From the 
order dated September 6, paragraph 3 it appears that there was a general direction 
given for accepting schedule B as filed subsequently subject to the directions 
contained in this order. But so far as Schedule C is concerned, there is no such 
specific order, In the absence of such an order it is now for the Tribunal to 
deal with such of the paragraphs in schedule C as are not specifically dealt with 
in the order. That Is items other than items 1. 2, 5, 7, 10 and 11. 

13. There is a lacuna in the order and part of the prayer by the petitioner to 
furnish better particulars has not yet been disposed of. The Tribunal has no 
doubt not only the jurisdiction by the duty to deal with the prayers not yet 
finally disposed of. My attention being drawn to this I would proceed immediately 
to deal with those items in Schedule C which are not referred to in the order dated 
September fi 1957. Both parties have again been heard on the subject matter 
of the items not specifically touched In the order dated September 0, 1957. This 
present order is to be treated as a part of and in continuation of the earlier 
order dated September 6, 1957. 

14. It is stated by the lawyers on both sides that Items 3 and 4 of Schedule C 
as in the amended schedule are in substance the same as in the original schedule 
subject to only one change, namely, wherever Respondent No. I appeared in. the 
original Schedule the word 'respondent’ only is used in the new Schedule . This 
Is necessary because of the amendment In the petition allowed with the consent 
of the parties and the modification is not objected to by Respondent. 

Item 6 of Schedule C . — Under item 6 the names of electors alleged to have 
been influenced by Inder Singh Patwari and S. Surain Singh, Patwari have been 
added in the new schedule subsequently filed. These names cannot be allowed 
to be added at this stage for the same reasons as given for additional names 
proposed to be added under item 5 of Schedule C. in the order dated September G, 
1957. Item 6, therefore, will remain as it was In the original schedule filed with 
the election petition. 

Items 8, 9, and 12 of Schedule C are stated by both sides to be in the same 
terms as in the original schedule. No change is proposed In the new schedule 
and therefore, need not be considered separately. 

This finally disposes of the prayer made by the Petitioner to furnish further 
particulars. 



Sec. 5 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHATGUNA 16. 1880 559 , 

In view of the circumstances discussed above no separate order ts necessary 
so lar as the application by the Respondent dated November 22, 1957 is concerned. 

The 10 th February, 1958, 


(Sd.) Rama Prasad Mookerjee, 
Election Tribunal, Chandigarh. 

ANNEXURE III 
Election Tribunal Chandigarh 
Election Petition No. 225 0 / 1957 
Shri Dayal Singh- — Petitioner. 

versus 

Shri Surjit Singh Majithia— Respondent 

Shri Jatinder Vir Gupta — Advocate for Petitioner. 

Shri Veda Vyas, Advocate, 

Shri Bal Raj Tuli, Advocate, 

Shri S. N. Kapahi, Advocate — for Respondent. 

Order on Preliminary Issues 
February 10, 1958 

O '. November 6, 1957, the following two issues were framed to be taken up as 
preliminary issues by consent of parties; — 

1. Have the petition and the schedules been properly verified? If not, what 

is the effect? 

2. Is the petition alongwith amended schedules or any part thereof vague 

and indefinite? If so, should any part of the petition be struck off? 
The parties were heard in part on November 8, 1957. 

2. On November 22, 1957, the respondent filed a petition Indicating that certain 
allegations in the election petition which were alleged to be corrupt practices did 
not constitute to be corrupt practices within the meaning of the Representation 
of the People Act. This petition was taken up for hearing on February 7, 1958. 
The Advocate for the petitioner intimated that no written objection thereto was 
required to be filed by him and the Tribunal might proceed to consider the same 
alongwith preliminary issue No, 2 about vagueness and indeflniteness of the amended 
schedules. Parties were accordingly heard further on February 7, 1958 on the 
preliminary Issues stated above as also on the points referred to in the respondents 
petition filed on November 22, 1957. 

8. Preliminary Issue No. 1, — When this preliminary issue was heard on Novem- 
ber 8, 1957, It was not disputed on behalf of the petitioner that the petition and 
the schedules were not properly! Verified. The petitioner had pTayed for an 
opportunity to put the verifications in proper form. On behalf of the respon- 
dent this prayer was not opposed. The petitioner was permitted to give fresh 
verifications in the correct form. The verifications were corrected and signed 
again by the petitioner on February 7, 1958. This disposes of preliminary issue 
No. 1. 

4. Preliminary Issue No. 2.— It is now necessary to consider whether some of 
the allegations mentioned in the election petition or any one or more of the items 
in the relevant portions of the schedules are either vague or irrelevant as also 
whether any of the particular which are stated to be corrupt practices in the 
election petition do constitute corrupt practices within the meaning of the 
Representation of the People Act even if it be found ultimately that the allega- 
tions made in the petition and or the schedules are proved, 

5. I shall now proceed to deal with different paragraphs in the election peti- 
tion and of the different items in the schedules which have been objected to on 
behalf of the respondent as coming within the mischief as stated above. 

Paragraph 4 of the Election Petition taken along-with Item I of Schedule C . — 
It is stated on behalf of the respondent that the petitioner ought to have men- 
tioned what particular post was held by Ram Chand and which particular rule 



560 THE GAZETTE OE fNDIA ; MARCH 7, 19 r >9/PHAEC.U\ \ 16 , IBM) [Part II 


ir offended I do not think such dcUns are required to he given as the 
identity ot the person is sufficiently made clear by giving the name of the 
father and of the address as also the Department where he is serving, Whethw 
any corrupt practice is committed or not will have to be considered at the 
proper time during the trial. The objection as to vagueness Is over-ruled. 

Paragraph 5 of the Election Petition taken With Schedule A. — On behalf of 
the petitioner it is admitted that paragraph 5 taken along with Schedule A may 
be deleted. The detailes given are' incomplete and the petitioner does not want 
to press that point for trial. It is ordered accordingly. 

Paragraph 0 of FAcction Petition,— In paragraph 6 it is stated that the respon- 
dent had been guilty of corrupt practices, the full particulars being given in 
"‘Schedule B annexed herewith”. Schedule B as mentioned here is clearly a 
typographical mistake for Schedule C. How this typographical mistake has 
occurred will be clear it refer to copies of the original schedules attached to the 
election petition from which it appears that in the heading of Schedule C the 
letter B in Schedule B is altered in ink to C. During the arguments before me 
also at the earlier stages when reference was being made to fuller particulars 
nf the corrupt practices mentioned under paragraph 6 of the election petition, 
reference was made to the different Items under schedule C. 

Paragraph fUu) of the Election Petition. — With regard to paragraph 8(ii; it is 
contended that the alienations arc of a very vague nature. It is so. If is stated 
in this sub-paragraph that the expense of petrol had been shown to be much 
less than the amount spent on the quantity actually consumed during the election 
• of the Respondent No. 1. “In fact pet To! consumed cannot be less than Rs. 50,000/- 
worth ” Tins vague in the extreme and as such cannot be considered in 
these proceedings. 

Paragraph 8 (in) of the Election Petition— It is contended on behalf of the 
Respondent that the statements in this sub-paragraph are not allegations, but 
are mere expressions of opinion. The Janguage used in this sub-paragraph tend 
to support the contention by the respondent. From the verification clause it 
appears that the petitioner does not undertake any personal responsibility about 
the statements in thus sub-paragraph and the statement is believed by him to 
be true without anv indication as to the grounds on which such belief is based. 
Paragraph fi(iv) must, therefore, be also deleted. 

Paragraph 9 of the Election Petition. — In paragraph 9 of the Election Petition, 
certain particulars are given. What was the effect pf such allegations, if found 
to be true, has to be considered at the proper time. This cannot be deleted now. 

Paragraph 10 of the Election Petition. — Tn paragraph 10 of the election petition 
It is alleged that sufficient publicity was not given to the symbols of the candi- 
date hy not hanging them at three places as required by Rules. Whether this 
was an Irregularity or not and whether there is any allegation that the election 
was materia ly affected by such ar\ irregularity will be decided during the trial. 
This cannot be deleted now. 

Objection has also been raised with regard to the following Items in Schedules 
B and C as being vague and lndeflniie ■ — 

Item (Hi) of Schedule B.— The allegation is that no notification was issued 
by the Government regarding village Samrai for polling booth in 272-Tarn 
Taran 'Parliamentary Constituency which seriously affected th« result of the 
petitioner’s election. These are sufficient particulars which might be enquired into 
and cannot he deleted at this stage. 

Items (ivi and (a) of Schedule B . — Here also particulars are given. If such 
allegations are proved then it will be lor consideration whether the amounts 
excluded would on inclusion exceed the prescribed limit and whether that would 
come within the four corners of the provisions of the rules will have to be 
decided hereafter. 

Item 2 of Schedule C— In this item there Is no reference to either the place 
or anv other detail where the alleged influencing by the Maharaja is a'leged. 
Item 2 of Schedule C must be deleted. 

Item 2 of Schedule C-- On behalf of the respondent it is stated that a 
Sarpanch is not included in the list of Government servant mentioned m section 
123(7 J of the Representation of the People Act. During the arguments it was 
conceded by the learned Advocate for the Respondent that in view of the general 
words used in clause (f) of sub-section (7) of Section 123, this point will have 



Sec. 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MaVcH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


56i 


to be considered after materials are produced as to the nature of work done 
by the Surpanch and whether he is a revenue officer or comes within the d_esigna- 
tion of village officer other than those mentioned in that clause. The particulars 
of Iho person as also of the polling booth where he was working have been given. 
The objection about this ilem cannot, therefore, be entertained at this stage. 

Item 4 of Schedule C. — No name of the Sarpanch and Lambardar is given 
It is vague and indefinite and must be deleted. 


Itei ■ i of Schedule C. — This item also is indefinite and vague as neither the 
place where undue influence is alleged to have been exercised nor any date is 
mentioned. It is not necessary to consider whether Secretary, Marketing Com- 
mittee comes within the mischief of a Government officer. Item 5 must, there- 
fore, be deleted. 

Item 6 of Schedule C. — In item fi of Schedule C, the names of tho two patwaris 
are given, I have already decided that the names of the electors alleged to have 
been influenced by the said two persons as given in the new schedules are to be 
deleted. After such deletion, that what remains in item 6 of Schedule C is vague 
and indefinite. Neither the place wheie such official position was misused or the 
dates of such occurrences aie given. Item 6 of Schedule C, therefore, must be 
deleted. 

Item 7 of Schedule C. — As regards item 7 of Schedule C, I had already discussed 
the point Ih my order dated the 6th September, 1957 and the direction given in 
that order must stand for the reasons already given. 

Items 8 and 9 of Schedule C. — It is argued that the statements contained under 
these two heads are vague. We find that, neither the dates of advances are given 
nor even !he period during which such advances had been made are given. These 
two items, therefore, must he deleted as vague and indefinite. 

Item 10 of Schedule C. — In my order dated the 6th September, 1957, 7 addi- 
tional names proposed to be brought in by way of fuller particulars were not 
allowed. The original names arc, however, there. The place where the voters 
named were threaten’d and the date also are given, There are sufficient particulars 
which may be gone into for the purpose of this enquiry. 

Iteir 12 of Schedule C. — Reference is made under this item to an alleged 
compromise between the Congress and Master Tara Singh on behalf of Akalis. It 
is stated that no details as regards the compromise are given. From the parti- 
culars given in item 12 It appears that 23 scats were allowed by the Congress for 
obtaining the support of Akalis through Master Tara Singh. There are some 
details therefor. It is next contended that hove can the respondent be made 
liable even if such a compromise had been affected between the two groups. That 
is a matter for decision at the proper stage in the trial. I would not express any 
opinion now on the merits on the question. This item cannot be deleted now. 


6. This disposes of all the points urged in connection with the two Preliminary 
Issues as also the application by the Respondent on November 22, 1957. 

7. Under Preliminary Issue No. 1 the verifications have been allowed to be put 
right. 

8. Preliminary Issue No. 2 is decided in part in favour of the Respondent. 

9. The following portions of the Election Petition and the Schedules are 
deleted. 

(i) Paragraph 5 of the Election Petition with Schedule A. 

(ii) Sub -paragraphs Cii) and (iv) of paragraph 8 of the Election Petition. 

(iii) Items (2) and (4) to (9) of Schedule C. 

10. In paragraph 6 of the Election Petition reference to Schedule B is amend- 
ed to Schedule C as a typographical mistake, 

11. It may be further indicated that under orders passed on September 6, 1957, 
items (vi) of Schedule B and (11) of Schedule C had previously been directed to 
be deleted. 



562 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, I860 [Pari II 


12. The trial will now proceed on the basis of the original Election Petition, 
subject to the deletions indicated above. Reference will hereafter for the sake 
of convenience be made to the copies of the Schedules filed on 6th November 1957 
subject to the deletions directed above. 


13. Issues will now be settled on the Petition and schedules as they now stand. 


14, Costs of this hearing will be taken into consideration at the time of the 
final hearing. 


February 10, 1958. 


Rama Prasad Mookerjee, 

Election Tribunal, 
Chandigarh. 


ANNEXURE— IV 
Election Tribunal, Chandigarh 
Election Petition No. 225 of 1957 

'Shri Dayal Singh— Petitioner. 

Versus 

Shri Surjit Singh Majithia — Respondent. 

Shri Jalinder Vir Gupta, — Advocate for Petitioner. 

Shri Bal Raj Tuli, — Advocate for Respondent. 

Order on objection raised about petitioner’s list op witnesses 
March 26, 1968. 

Heard the learned Advocates on both sides on the objection filed by the res- 
pondent on 12th March 1958 in regard to three of the witnesses cited by the Petitioner. 
It is accordingly ordered as follows — 

1. On February 17, 1958 the Petitioner had filed a list of 15 witnesses proposed 
to be examined on his behalf during the trial of the Election Petition. On behalf 
of the respondent objection has been raised in respect of three of the persons so 
cited. I shall take up the question about the three objected persons In the order 
in which they appear in the list. 

2. No. 7 In the Petitioner’s list is Shri Kahan Singh of Tarn Taran, District 
Amritsar On behalf of the respondent it is pointed out that the hamc of Shri 
Kahan Singh had appeared in Item 5 of Schedule C to the Election Petition. In 
terms of the judgment dated February 10, 1958 under order No, 15, item 5 of 
Schedule C to the Election Petition was found to be vague and Indefinite. The 
said Item 5 was accordingly directed to be deleted, The Advocate for the Petitioner 
concedes that he cannot refer to any relevant fact covered by the issues on which 
this witness will be able to depose. In this state of things I do not think that 
Shri Kahan Singh is a necessary or relevant witness In the case. On the materials 
placed before me, he cannot be examined as a witness in the case. 

3. No. 8 In the Petitioner’s list Is Shri Gurmech Singh of Pidian. It is pointed 
out that the name of Shri Gurmech Singh does not appear in any part or the Election 
petition including the schedules as amended and subject to the deletions as ordered 
o* 10th February 1958. On behalf of the petitioner, it is stated that he is instructed 
by say that Shri Gurmech Singh will be a necessary and relevant witness about the 
hiring of jeeps in connection with item (i) of Schedule B taken with paragraph 8(i) 
of the election petition which is included within Issue No. 5. Under such circum- 
stances there Is no objection to Shri Gurmech Singh being called as a witness for 
the petitioner, 

4. No 12 in the Petitioner’s list of witnesses Is Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru, Prime 
Minister of India, Now Delhi, On behalf of the respondent it is contended that 
In no part of the election petition including the schedules as they now stand is 
their any reference to Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru, Prime Minister of India and it 
cannot be ascertained why or how he may be deemed to be a necessary and relevant 
witness in the case. On behalf of the petitioner it is urged that under Issue No. 8 
an alleged compromise between the Congress High Command and Master Tara .Singh 
on behalf of the Akalis will be the subject matter of enquiry. It is stated that 



Seo. S (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 19j9/PHALGIJNA 16, )880 


5 fi 3 


Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru has been cited as a witness who can speak about the 
compromise as staled above. On behalf of the respondent it is contended that 
whether Shri Jawaluir Lai Nehru was included within what Is described as the 
Congress High Command and also whether he had anything to do with the alleged 
compromise, If there had been one has to bo shown. Until that Is shown 
the said witness cannot bo cited at this stage. It is alleged In the election petition 
that there was a compromise between the Congress High Command on the one hand 
and Master Tara Singh on behalf of the Akalis nn the other and the latter has 
been cited by the Petitioner as one of nis witnesses. It is now for consideration 
whether the objection by the Respondent to the inclusion of Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru 
as a witness Is well founded. 


5. Under sub-section (1) of Section 90 of the Representation of the People Act, 
the procedure applicable to the trial of suits under Civil Procedure Code are to 
be applied for the trial of the Election Petition subject to the provisions of this 
Act and the rules made thereunder. The proviso to this sub-section further gives 
a discretion to the Tribunal to refuse, for reasons tc» be recorded in writing, to 
examine any witness ff it is of the opinion that their evidence is not material for 
the decision of the petition or if the Tribunal is of opinion that the party tender- 
ing such witness is doing so on frivolous grounds or to delay the proceedings. 


6. Under sub-section (2) of Section 90 of the same Act, the provisions of the 
Indian Evidence Act subject to the provisions of this Act aie attracted in a trial 
of an election petition. It is, therefore, necessary tc» examine the provisions of the 
Code of Civil Procedure and of the Evidence Act to ascertain what test is to be 
applied in the present case subject to the provisions of the Representation of the 
People Act, 


7. Under Section 5 of the Evidence Act, a party to a suit or proceedings is 
entitled to give evidence to those fact only which are ueclari d relevant under the 
provisions of the Evidence Act. The. Judge Is to allow only such evidence to be 
given as in his opinion is relevant and admissible. For ascertaining the relevancy 
of the evidence which a party intends to adduce, the presiding Judge is entitled 
to ask the party proposing to give evidence as to the manner in which the alleged 
fact if proved would be relevant and also whether the witness cited is expected 
to speak on any of the relevant facts arising on the issues to be tried. There is 
a distinction between relevancy and admissibility. It is only atter the issues 
have been raised and settled that the question of relevancy of evidence can be 
decided and a decision as to what evidence may or will have to be given or allowed. 
Questions of relevancy are sometimes questions of some nicety, It is also difficult 
at times to decide in advance questions of relevancy. 


8. As I shall indicate immediately it is not possible or desirable to give a 
final decision at this stage about the relevancy of the evidence which may be 
given by Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru. 

9. The provisions contained in Section 136 of the Evidence Act taken alongwith 
the provisions of Order 18 of the Code of Civil Procedure Indicate that when 
facts proposed to be proved are admissible upon proof of other facts, the Court 
Is required to shift the circumstances under which evidence may be allowed before 
the latter fact is actually brought in by other evidence. When such a question 
arises when the witness is already in the witness box, on undertaking is taken 
by the Court from the party or his lawyer to produce at a later and convenient 
stage evidence as to the fact upon which depends the admissibility of the fact 
proposed to be proved. If no such proof of the other fact is made available 
evidence given earlier is to be expunged. It is also a fact that relevancy of 
testimohy may not be demonstrated at the time when evidence is given at an 
early stage. The position, however, is different when the question is raised at an 
earlier stage and before the witnesses are called. 


10. InHihe present case, the Petitioner’s thesis is that there was a compromise 
between Master Tara Singh on behalf of the Akalis and the Congress High 
Command. The first step is to adduce evidence that there was an agreement 



564 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNa 16, 1880 


[Part II 


between Master Tara Singh and certain persons of the Congress. On behalf of the 
Respondent it is stated that Shn Jawahar Lai Nehru was not one of those who 
dealt with such matter but tile Congress President and certain other persons. The 
Petitioner has cited among others Master Tara Singh and on the evidence as may 
be given by him, about the alleged compromise and person or persons w T lth whom, 
he had settled, there will be some material on which to express an opinion whether 
on the testimony of Master Tara Singh, the evidence of Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru 
will be a relevant evidence. The evidence of the latter, therefore, would be 
admissible or relevant on production of evidence about the compromise between 
Master Tara Singh and the Congress High Command and also on the further proof 
that such compromise was ejected with the so-called Congress High Command 
which might or might net have included Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru The Petitioner 
cannot at this stage say definitely whether Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru was one of 
the Congress High Command with whom the compromise is alleged to have been 
effected. The relevancy of one alleged fact, therefore, in the present case depends 
upon another alleged fact to be first proved. The third paragraph c< Section 136 
of the Evidence Act gives a discretion to the Judge. In the facts of the present 
case I think that the petitioner should be required to adduce evidence 
of the second fact that is relation to the alleged compromise with Master Tara 
Singh and also who constituted the Congress High Command with whom Master 
Tara Singh had entered into negotiations and settled. The proviso tc* Sub-section 
<11 of Section 90 of the Representation of the People Act gives the Tribunal a 
discretion to refuse to Examine any witness under the circumstances mentioned 
therein. Whether the present case will fall within that proviso and I should or 
would exorcise my discretion, will.be considered after tile Petitioner has examined 
Master Tara Singh or evidence is adduced on the points indicated above, I, there- 
fore, direct that no summons be issued at this stage to No, 12 in the Petitioner’s 
list Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru until and after other evidence in the case as indicated 
above is adduced by the petitioner. I shall decide then whether the objectioh raised 
by the respondent is to prevail or not. 


11. It may also be stated that Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru is described in the 
list as Prime Minister of India and there is no indication if as Prime Minister he 
had anything to do with the election which is in dispute in the present case or 
the disputes now before the Tribunal The Petitioner states that he has not been 
cited in his capacity as the Prime Minister, but the latter part is merely the 
description and the address of the person cited. If and when it is considered 
whether Shri Jawahar Lai Nehru is to be examined, the Respondent states that 
it may have to be considered whether he is to be examined here or on commission. 
That question need not be gone into at this stage. 


12. As the objection has partly succeeded, there will be no order as to costs 
as far as this hearing is concerned. 


Rama Prasad Mookkhjee, 
Election Tribunal. Chandigarh. 


[No. 82/225/57/104.1 


S.O. 491. In pursuance of the provisions of sub-rule. (3) of rule 140 of the 

Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules> 
1956, and in continuation of its notification No. 82/437/57/8827, elated the 2 nd 
July, 1958/Asadha 11, 1880 (Saka), published in the Gazette of India, Extraordi- 
nary, Part II — Section 3, sub-section (ii), dated the 24th July, ieSS/Sravana, 2 
1880, the Election Commission hereby publishes the judgment of the High Court or 
Judicature at Bombay, delivered on the 10/ 11th October, 1958, on the appeal 
filed by Shri Sudhir Laxman Hendre, Flat No. 52, V F i_ oor * War ^en Court, GowaUa 
Tank Road, Bombay-20, against the Order dated the 31st May, 1958, or the 
Election Tribunal, Nagpur, in the Election Petition No, 437 01 1 157. 



S«c. 3 (ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 <65 

APPEAL NO. 294 OP 1958 FROM ORIGINAL DECREE 
(Under the Representation of People Act, XLIII of 1951) 

Sudhir Laxman Hendre 

(Original Petitioner) Appellant. 


Venus 


Shrlpat Amrit Dtyige and others. 

(Original Respondents) Respondents. 

Appeal against the decision of K. T. Mangalmurti, Esquire, Member of Elec- 
tion Tribunal, at Nagpur, in Election Petition No. 437 of 1957. 

Mr. S. W. Dhabe, Advocate— for the Appellant. 

Mr. A. S. R. Chari with Mr. V. D. Mengde 8c L, R, Chari, — Advocates for Res- 
pondent No. 1. 

Mr. V. K. Pai, — Advocate for Respondent No. 5. 

M/s. P. P. Tajane and N. M. Kamble, — Advocates for Respondent No. 3. 

Coram: Gokhale & Patel, J. J. 10/llth October, 1958. 

Oral Judgment ( Per Gokhale, J.): 

This is an appeal under s.llGA of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 
•f 1951) against an order passed by the Election Tribunal, Nagpur, in Election 
Petition No. 437 of 1967 filed by the appellant Mr. S. L. Hendre. The petitioner 
was a candidate for election to the House of the People from the Bombay City 
Central Constituency in the general elections which took place in 1957. In this 
constituency there were two seats and one of the seats was reserved for the 
scheduled q^tes. Including the petitioner, there were in all 7 candidates of 
whom one of the candidates Mr, Awati representing the Ram Rajya Parishad 
retired from the contest. The other candidates were Mr. S. A. Dange represent- 
ing the Communist Party, Mr. C. K. Manay representing the Republican Party 
Messrs. G. D. Ambekar ’ and N. S. Kejrolkar, who stood on the Congress ticket, 
while Mr. N. B. Parulekar and Mr. S. L. Hendre, the petitioner, stood as indepen- 
dent candidates. The voting took place on llth March 1957, but as some irregu- 
larity was discovered at one of the polling stations in connection with the placing 
of ballot boxes of the independent candidates, the Election Commission passed an 
order directing a repoll in that particular station which took place on 21st March 
1957. As a result of the counting of votes, Messrs. Dange and Manay were de- 
clared as successful candidates and they secured 3,23,526 and 3,03,875 votes res- 
pectively The two Congress candidates Messrs. G. D. Ambekar and N, S. Kajrol- 
kar secured 1,87,941 and 2,09,789 votes respectively. The votes recorded in favour 
of Mr N. B. Parulekar were 15,881 and those* recorded In favour of the petitioner 
were 15,440. As I have already stated, Mr. Awati had retired from the contest 
just before the election took .place. 

The present petition came to be filed by the petitioner Mr. Hendre on 1st May 
1957 in which he challenged the validity of the election on a number of grounds. 
It is not necessary in this appeal to refer to all those grounds because ultimately 
when the election petition was heard by the Tribunal a number of issues were 
not pressed on behalf of the petitioner. The principal objections 
raised by the petitioner to the election may be summarised as 

follows: According to the petitioner, the ballot boxes bearing the name and sym- 
bol of the petitioner were kept late, after 11:30 a.m. on llth March 1957 at a 
number of polling stations and a repoll was ordered only at the polling station 

situated at the Victoria Memorial School for the Blind, 73, Tardeo Road. It was 

further contended that the Returning Officer was in error in starting the counting 
of votes on 14th March 1957 though a repoll was ordered in respect of the polling 
station at Tardeo. It was also contended that the Election Com- 

mission should have ordered a fresh election or at any raid a repo.l 
in all the 53 stations where the ballot boxes of the petitioner came 
to be kept late. Then it was further contended that respondents Nos. 1 and 2 
l.e , Messrs. Dang? and Manay, along with Mr. P, K. Atre, who acted on behalf 
of these candidates, indulged in a deliberately misleading propaganda through 
written and spoken statements appealing to the voters to refrain from voting lot 



O* ' »IA : MARCH 7, 1959/1'HALOLT^Ta IG, 1880 [Part II 


GA 


the petitioner on the ground that he was a bogus candidate and did not believe in 
the cause of Samyukta Maharashtra and was put up as a candidate by Mr. Y. B. 
Chavan, Chief Minister, Bombay State, and Mr. S. K. Patii, President of the Bom- 
bay Provincial Congress Committee and it was asserted that this propaganda was 
false to the false knowledge of the respondents and Mr. Atre and they had no rea- 
son to believe it to be true. It was further contended that this propaganda preju- 
diced the chances of the petitioner's election and created a doubt about the genuine- 
ness of the petitioner's candidature and also reflected on the personal character and 
conduct of the petitioner. On this ground the petitioner challenged the election 
because such propaganda, according to him, amounted to corrupt practice within 
the meaning of s,123(4) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It was 
further urged that propaganda was carried on in the ‘Maratha’ paper owned by 
Mr. Atre which amounted to undue influence within the meaning of s. 123(2) of the 
Act. It was further alleged that respondents Nos. 1 and 2 supported by Mr. Atre 
and their election agents, canvassors, employees and supporters, indulged in inti- 
midation and wholesale terrorisation and threats of physical violence, social ostra- 
cism, spiritual censure and divine displeasure against certain persons who were 
canvassing for the petitioner and other candidates who were collaborating with 
the petitioner and as such there was undue influence on a large scale practised 
throughout the constituency. Then it was also alleged that certain photographs 
came to be published in the Maratha or daily news paper edited by Mr. P. K. 
Atre of 11th March 1057 and posters were issued on behalf of the Communist 
Party which made an appeal to the electors asking them to vote on grounds of com- 
munity alone and as such came within the mischief of s,123-(3) of the Act. It was 
also alleged that Mr. Awati, the candidate put up by the Ram Bajya Parishad was 
given some gratification inducing him to retire from the contest, and, therefore, 
that would also amount to a corrupt practice under s. 123(1) read with the Ex- 
planation to that section. It was lastly contended that the petitioner having 
stood as a candidate and exercised his electoral right as such had also the right 
to carry on freely without any interference his election campaign and this right 
of the petitioner was seriously interfered with and on that account also there was 
undue influence practiced in this election so as to amount to a corrupt practice 
under s.l23(2) of the Act. 

As I have already stated, a number of pbjections which were raised and on which 
Issues came to be framed, were not pressed and no evidence was led on those ob- 
jections. But the principal objections to which I have referred above and on 
which a good deal of evidence was led were negatived by the Election Tribunal 
which consequently dismissed the petition filed by the appellant. That is why 
the petitioner hag come in appeal under S.116A of the Act. 

Mr, Dhabe, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner, has again 
raised those points in this appeal and he says that the decision of the Election 
Tribunal was wrong on these principal objections taken by the petitioner. The 
first point urged by Mr. Dhabe is that the evidence on the record discloses that 
because of the statements of the polling agents of Messrs. Dange and Manay (the 
two successful candidates) that Messrs. Hendre and Parulekar had withdrawn 
from the contest the polling officer Mr. Bharueha did not place the ballot boxes of 
these two latter candidates in the polling compartment of the Tardeo Polling Sta- 
tion and this continued till 11-30 a.m. on 11th March 1957 and these boxes came 
to be kept there only when Mr. Hendre came to that polling station when the 
irregularity came to be discovered. Mr. Dhabe has frankly conceded that this 
defect occurred only at the polling station at the Victoria Memorial School for the 
blind at Tardeo Road and his original grievance that these boxes were not kept 
at 53 polling stations could not be sustained because there was no evidence In 
support of that statement. 

Now, It would appear that this parliamentary constituency was divided into 770 
polling stations and each of these polling stations was meant for recording the 
votes of about 1000 voters, there beintj about seven lakhs of voters In this Constitu- 
ency. Under the Representation of the People Act, 1951, every candidate Is entitled 
to appoint an election agent and he is also entitled to appoint polling agents one 
such polling agent being appointed for every polling stations. For each polling 
agent there would be two relieves, but only one of the polling agents or the relie- 
ver would be present on behal? of the candidate at the polling station at anytime. 
It would appear from Mr. Hendre's evidence that in all he had about 30 to 35 
workers including polling agents at the election and, according to the statement 
made in the petition, h e had it appears 10 poling agents. In the petition it hr 
alleged by Mr, Hendre that the polling agents or respondents Nos. 1 and 2 the 
successful candidates obtained or attempted to obtain assistance of the presiding 
officers and polling officers for the furtherance of the prospects of their election 
by inducing or attempting to induce the presiding officers and polling officers not 
to keep the ballot boxes of the petitioner in the polling compartments by falsely 



■Sic. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, I959/PHALGUNA 16. 1880 


567 


informing them that the petitioner had already withdrawn or retired from the 
said election and that the polling agents were aho responsible for defacing the 
name of the petitioner In the polling compartment in more than one polling 
station. 

As I have already pointed out, no evidence has been led about the other polling 
stations, but it does appear from the evidence of the polling officer Mr. Bharucha that 
when the polling opened at 8 a.m. on 11th March 1957, while the ballot boxes of 
the other candidates were kept in the polling compartment duly sealed at the Tardeo 
Fo.ling Station, he had not sealed the ballot boxes of Messrs Hendre and Parulekar 
because the polling agents there had told him and the staff that those candidates 
had withdrawn, and hence he did not keep their boxes in the polling compartment. 
He stated that there was no agent of Messrs Hendre and Parulekar present at that 
time and barring the boxes of these two candidates he kept the boxes of all the 
other candidates in the polling compartment. Ho further stated in his evidence that 
the names of these two candidates were scored out on the placards on the walls, 
which were put up there by the election machinery. One of these placards was kept 
outside the polling station and the other on the polling compartment Itself and the 
names of these two candidates were scored out on both the placards. He did not 
inquire from the polling agents as to when these two candidates withdrew from 
the contest but later on Mr. Hendre approached him and when he was Informed 
by Mr. Bharucha that he had withdrawn from the contest, he denied the correctness 
of the statement and then after a talk with the Returning Officer Mr. Badekar, Mr. 
Bharucha returned to the polling station and placed the boxes of Messrs. Hendre 
and Parulekar at the polling compartment at about 11-30 a.m. There is no doubt 
that from 8 to 11-30 a.m. on 11th March 1957 the ballot boxes of Messrs. Hendre and 
Parulekar were not kept at the polling booth as required under the rules. In Exhi- 
bit P-34 which is the report made by Mr. Bharucha to the Returning Officer Mr. 
Badekar in connection with this constituency, he has stated that the majority of the 
polling agents present at the station informed him that Messrs. Hendre and Parule- 
kar had withdrawn from the contest. It would seem that this report was placed 
-on the record at the instance of the petitioner. But Mr. Dhabe contends that 
we should not rely on this report. We are not prepared to accept this argument, 
Because that report itself having been placed on the record at the instance of 
the petitioner and Mr. Bharucha having given evidence, we do not think that this 
report can be said to be in any manner inadmissible. It appears from the evidence 
-of Mr. Hendre that when he noticed this defect at that particular station he 
immediately wrote a letter to the Returning Officer that at this particular polling 
booth No. 117/9 at 73, Tardeo Road, at 11 a.m. his boxes were not kept in the 
both and his name on the placard was struck off. But in that letter the petitioner 
has stated that the presiding officer told him that the polling agents of the Samv- 
ukta Maharashtra Samiti as well as of the Congress told him that he had with- 
drawn from the contest and that is why he was making this complaint. In thla 
connection, he also sent telegram to the Election Commissioner at New Delhi 
making similar complaint. On the same day the petitioner also wrote a letter 
do the Election Commissioner and in that letter also he stated that the presiding 
officer toffi him that he was advised by the polling agents of the Congress and 
the Samiti candidates that he had retired from the contest. He, therefore, request- 
ed the Commissioner to order re-election for the general seat In the constituency- 
As a result of this complaint, it would appear that the Election Commissioner 
passed an order directing the Returning Officer for the Bombay City Central 
Parliamentary Constituency to have a fresh poll taken only In respect of the 
polling station No. 127/9 In Constituency. The evidence shows that on this day 
-elections were held both for the Parliament as well as for the State Legislative 
Assembly and, according to Mr. Manay’s evidence, the boxes of the State Legis- 
lative Assembly candidates and of the House of the People candidates were In the 
same tent, though at different places, and there were present polling agents of can- 
didates for the Parliamentary Constituency and polling agents of candidates for 
the State Legislative Assembly aljo. 

In connection with the order of the Election Commissioner ordering a repoll 
confined to one poRing station, the argument of Mr. Dhabe is that such an action 
Is not warranted by the provisions of the Representation of the People Act. Ac- 
cording to Mr, Dhabe. In view of the defect that was brought to the notice of the 
polling officer as well as the Returning Officer cvl to the Election Commission 
the entire election to the Parliamentary seats in this constituency should have 
been set aside and a fresh election held. Under S.57 of the Act, provision is 
made for the adjournment of poll at an election in certain emergencies. It Is 
not disputed that S.57 would not apply to the facts of this case. S.58 provide* 
Jor a fresh poll being taken and it runs as follows : 

“(1) If at any election, any ballot box used at a polling station or at a 
place fixed for the poll Is unlawfully taken out of the custody of the 
presiding officer or the returning officer, or Is In any way tampered 



THE GAZETTE Ol IND1 1 . MARCH 7, 1059/EHA1.GIJM A Hi. 1880 [Pari II 


with, or is accidentally or intentionally destroyed lost or damaged, 
and the returning officer is satisfied that m conseqpencQ thereof the 
result of the poll at that polling station or place cannot be ascer- 
tained, he shall — 

(a) declare the polling at that polling station or place to be void; 

(b) report the matter forthwith to the Election Commission and to the 

appropriate authority; 

(c) with the previous approval of the Election Commission, appoint 

a day, and fix the hours for taking a fresh poll at the polling 

station or place; and 

(d) notify the day so appointed and the hours so fixed by him in suet 

manner as the Election Commission may direct. 


(2) The provisions of this Act and of any rules or orders made thereunder 
shall apply to every such fresh poll as they apply to the original 
poll.” 

It cannot be denied that the failure of the polling officer to keep the ballot boxes 
of the petitioner at the polling station would, not be in terms covered by this 
section. It is only when a ballot box of any candidate Is unlawfully taken out 
of the custody of the oresiding officer or is in any way tampered with or is acci- 
dentally or intentionally destroyed or lost or damaged and the returning officer 
is satisfied that In consequence thereof the result of the poll at that boiling sta- 
tion cannot be ascertained, then a fresh poll may be taken under section 58 after 
declaring the polling at that polling station to be void and with the previous 
approval of the Election Commission. But it does seem that even where there 
is a more serious Interference with the ballot box of a candidate a fresh poll 
can be ordered only for that particular polling station where the ballot box is 
found to have been tampered with or destroyed. The Election Tribunal was 
of the view that the principle of this section could be applied in the present case 
where on account of the wrong Information given to the polling officer the ballot 
boxes in the names of the two candidates were not kept till 11-30 a.m. at the 
polling booth and, therefore, the order of the Election Commission would be 
justified on the principles of equity, fair play and natural Justice, There Is un- 
doubtedly a good deal to be said in favour of this view. Mr. Chari, learned 
Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, also relied on Art. 324(1) of 
the Constitution of support of the action of the Election Commission. Under the 
article, “the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the 
electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to Parliament and to the 
Legislature of every State and of elections to the Office of President and Vice- 
President held under this Constitution, including the appointment of election 
Tribunals for the decision of doubts and disputes arising out of or In connection 
with elections to Parliament and to the Legislatures of States shall be vested in 
a Commission (referred to in this Constitution as the Election Commission)’’. 
Undoubtedly under this Article, the Constitution has created an Election Com- 
mission for the superintendence Direction and control and conduct of all elec- 
tions to Parliment and the State Legislatures. But the Election Commission must 
act within the terms of the statute which Parliament may enact under art. 327 
of the Constitution making provision with respect to fill matters relating to elec- 
tions. Under Art. 329(b), “no election to either House of Parliament or to the 
House or either House of the Legislature of a State shall be called In question 
except by an election petition presented to such authority and in such manner 
as may be provided for by or under any law made by the appropriate Legisla- 
ture". The Representation of the People Act, 1951, having been enacted by 
Parliament, the powers of the Election Commission must be exercised in accor- 
dance with the provisions of this Act and it does seem that thejVct. itself does 
not confer on the Election Commission any power to adjourn a poll or to take- 
a fresh poll beyond what is provided under Sections 57 and 58 of the Act. 

But even assuming that Section 58 does not in terms provide for a fresh elec- 
tion at a polling station, under circumstances which have arlsed in the present 
case, the only section which empowers an Election Tribunal to declare an elec- 
tion to be void is Section 100 of the AcU and Mr. Dhabe has, therefore, argued 
that What has happened amounts to a corrupt practice which must invalidate 
the election. 



Spc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGLJNA 16, 1880 569 


Now, Section 100(1), in so far as it is material, provides as follows: 

"(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), if the Tribunal is of 
opinion — - 

* * * 

(b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candi- 
date or his election agent or by any other person with the consent 
of a returned candidate or his election agent; or 

♦ * * 

(d) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned 
candidate, has been materially affected — 

* * * 

(ii) by any corrupt Dractice committed in the interests -of __the returned 
candidate by a person other than that candidate or his election 
agent or a person acting with the consent of spch candidate or elec- 
tion agent; or 

(iii) by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or the 

reception of any vote which is void; or 

(iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of 

this Act or of any rules or orders made under this Act, 

the Tribunal shall declare the election of the returned candidate to 
be void." 

In the present case we are not concerned with the provisions of sub-section (2) 
of Section 100. It is clear that there is a distinction between the provisions of 
clause (b) and clause (d) (ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 100. If it is proved 
that a corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his elec- 
tion agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or 
his election agent, then the Tribunal has to declare the election of the returned 
candidate to be void, But if the responsibility of corrupt practice is not on the 
candidate or his election agent or any person acting with the consent of such 
candidate or his election agent, but the corrupt practice has been committed in 
the Interests of a returned candidate by a person other than the persons mentioned 
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 100, then it must be shown that the 
result of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidate has been 
materially affected, before the Tribunal Is empowered to declare the election to 
be void. It may be observed that the law In England regarding irregularities in 
•election is somewhat similar. In Halsbury’s Laws of England, third edition, 
Volume 14, paragraph 261, at page 150, it is stated as follows: 


"An election ought not to be held void by reason of transgressions of the 
law committed without any corrupt motive by the returning officer 
or his subordinates in the conduct of the election if the tribunal is 
satisfied that the election was notwithstanding those transgressions, 
an election really and in substance conducted under the existing elec- 
tion law, and that the result of the election, was not and could not 
have been affected by those transgressions. If, on the other hand, 
the transgressions of the law by the officials being admitted, the 
tribunal sees that the effect of the transgressions was such that 
the election was not really conducted under the existing election 
laws, or it is open to reasonable doubt whether those transgres- 
sions may not have affected the result, and It is uncertain whether 
the candidate who has been returned has really, been elected 
by the majority of persons voting in accordance with the laws in 
force relating to elections, the tribunal Is then bound to declare the 
election void." Islington, West Division, Case (1901), 5 O’M. & H.120. 
at page 125. In the above case, it appears' that at certain polling 
stations the polling continued even after 8 p.m. which was the clos- 
ing hour, and a number of votes were recorded after this hour in 
the ballot box and a number of ballot papers came to be supplied 
after this hour; and Mr. Justice Kennedy, after stating his views of 
the law as quoted above observed that '‘this is the view of the law 
which has generally been recognised, and acted upon, by the tribunals 
which have dealt with election matters,” 



570 


THE GAZETTE 01' INDIA : V ARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 10, 1880 [Part IE 


According to Mr. Dhabe, the polling agents of the successful candidates were 
responsible for making a false statement of fact to the polling officer that the 
petitioner and Mr. Panulekar had withdrawn from candidature. That would be, 
therefore, a corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 123(4) of the Act 
and Mr. Dhabe says that the evidence establishes that the polling agents of the 
successful candidates were present at the polling station and were responsible 
for the information given to Mr. Bharucha. It is contended further that at that 
polling station the polling agents of Messrs- Hendre and Parplekar were not pre- 
sent and only the agents of other candidates were present and, according to Mr. 
Bharucha, the polling agents had given him the information that both Messrs. 
Hendre and Parulekar had withdrawn and on that information he had not kept 
the ballot boxes of these two candidates in the polling compartment. Now, there 
are several difficulties in the way of accepting this contention of Mr. Dhabe, In 
the first instance, Exhibit Page 34, the report of Mr. Bharucha, shows that the 
majority of the polling agents gave him this Information. In his evidence before 
the Tribunal, he said that the polling agents there gave him to understand that 
the two candidates had withdrawn. If the polling agents of Messrs, Hendre and 
Parulekar were not there, the polling agents of the Congress candidates as well 
as those of Messrs. Dange and Manay would be there and, according to Mr. 
Hendre’s letters both to the Returning Officer as well as to the Election Commis- 
sion written on the very day of the election, his complaint was that the polling 
agents of both the Congress as well as the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti candi- 
dates had given this wrong information to the presiding Officer. As already stated, 
Mr. Manay’s evidence shows, and there Is no dispute on this point, that on that 
very day elections were also held for the State Legislative Assembly __pnd there 
were polling agents of candidates standing for that Assembly and that election 
was held at the same polling station. It cannot, therefore, be said with certainty 
that the polling agents of the successful candidates Messrs. Dange and Manay 
were responsible for giving this false Information to Mr. Bharucha. Nor Is there 
any evidence whatever on the record to show that this was done with the con- 
sent of the returned candidates or their election agents. The petitioner has also 
stated in his evidence that owing to the illness of his son he had not been able 
properly to divide the supervision work of polling stations amongst his workers 
and it was difficult for him even to co-operate with his workers who were scat- 
tered over a wide area and who also believed that he had withdrawn- Mr. Dhabe 
has drawn our attention to the provisions of Section 46 of the Act under which 
polling agents are appointed by a contesting candidates or his election agent and 
to Rule 13 of the Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election 
Petitions), Rules, 1956, published in the Manual of Election Law, second edition, 
and Form 10 in connection with the appointment of polling agents, and Mr. Dhabe 
contends that as soon as a polling agent is appointed all his actions must be 
presumed to be binding on the returned candidate. We are not prepared to accept 
this argument. As I nave already pointed out, when a corrupt practice Is com- 
mitted by a returned candidate or his election agent, then the question of consent 
does not arise, but if it is committed by ‘any other person’ which expression would 
include a polling agent, then it must be shown that the corrupt practice has been 
committed with the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent. There' 
is no reliable evidence on the record to show that the polling agent of Messrs. 
Dange and Manay were responsible for giving this false information to Mr. Bharu- 
cha and there Is no evidence also to show that this was done with the consent of 
either the returned candidates or their election agents and, therefore, in our 
opinion, (hjs would not amount to any corrupt practice under Section 100(1) (b) 
of the Act. 

Even assuming that the matter falls under Section 100(1) (d) (il), in as much as 
false information was given to Mr, Bharucha in the Interests of the returned can- 
didate by a person other than the candidate or his election agent or person 
acting with the consent of such candidate or election agent, then it has to be 
proved that the election, in so far as it concerns the returned candidate, has been 
materially affected, before the Tribunal can declare the election to be void. Mr. 
Dhabe has frankly conceded that the view of the Tribunal that the defect In the 
election at this polling station could not have materially affected the result of the 
election of the returned candidates cannot be challenged, because, as has been 
already indicated, each polling station was meant to record votes of about 1000 
voters and even assuming that all the votes in this polling station were cast In 
favour of the candidates other than the returned candidates or In favour of Mr. 
Hendre alone, it would not have materially affected the result of the election. 

Mr. Dhabe has also alternatively contended that the defect pointed out, viz., 
the absence of the ballot boxes of the petitioner and of Mr. Parulekar at th,e pol- 
ling booth in question till 11-30 a.m, would amount to improper reception or re- 
fusal or rejection of any vote and would come within the mischief of Section- 



Sic. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA .'MARCH 7, 1939/EHALCLNA 1-j, ld»C 


m 

100(1) (d) (iii) of the Act and would also amount to non-compliance with the pro- 
visions of the Act and the rules and orders made under the Act and would thus 
come under Section 100(1) (d)(lv). But that again would be of no assistance to 
the petitioner because even in that case it must be shown that the result of the 
election in so far as it concerns the election of the returned candidates, has been 
materially affected. 

That takes me to the principal and the second objection to the validity of the 
election urged on behalf of the petitioner. This objection may be summarised 
as follows: It is argued on behalf of the petitioner that a false propaganda was 
carried on on behalf of the respondents Nos. 1 and 2, the returned candi- 
dates, and by their agent Mr. P, K. Atre in his newspaper ‘’Maratha” and false 
statement were made which would amount to corrupt practice under Section 
123(4) of the Act. Objection was principally taken to three kinds of statements 
which were made against the petitioner: (1) that the petitioner was a bogus can- 
didate and was really set up by Mr. Y. B Chavan, Chief Minister, and Mr. S. K. 
Patil, President of the Bombay Provincial Congress Committee; (2) that the can- 
didature of the petitioner was financed by the Democratic Research Service which 
itself was dependent on American money; and (3) that the petitioner was on 
friendly terms with Mr. Y, B. Chavan before he became Chief Minister, but he 
left him because he failed to get contracts from Mr. Chavan and Jie, therefore, 
parted company from him; but when the elections came he again stood up as a 
candidate supported and sponsored by Mr. Chavan. It Is stated that not only 
were such false statements published but the candidates and their agent knew them 
to be false and the statements were In relation t'o the petitioner’s personal charac- 
ter and conduct or at any rate in relation to his candidature and were reason- 
ably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the petitioner’s election and, there- 
fore, the successful candidates were responsible for a corrupt practice which 
would invalidate the election as a whole. 

Before I go to the statements to which our attention was drawn in this 
connection, it Is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of both ss. 123 and 
100 of the Act. S. 123 (4), so far aa material, provides as follows: 

"The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of 
this Act: — 


*•••••• 

(4) The publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other rerson, of 
any statement of fact which is false, and which he either believes 
to be false or does not believe to be true, in relatl-m to the personal 
character or conduct of any candidate, or in relation to the candi- 
dature, or withdrawal, or retirement from contest, of any candidate, 
being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects 
of the candidate’s election.” 

Now, In order to bring the case within the ambit of this provision, the petitioner 
must prove firstly, that there has been a publication by a candidate or his agent or 
by any other person of a statement of fact: secondly, the statement of fact must be 
false; thirdly, the publisher must either believe it to be false or must not believe it 
to be true; fourthly, the statement must be in relation to the personal character or 
conduct of the candidate or In relation to his candidature, withdrawal or retirement 
from contest; and, lastly, it must be a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the prospects of the candidates’ selection, Now, it cannot be disputed that the 
onus to prove that a corrupt practice has been committed by a candidate or his 
agent lies on the person seeking to set aside the election on that ground. What Is 
open to objection is a false statement of fact, and such a statement must be with 
reference to the personal character or conduct of the candidate. In what has come 
to be known as the North Louth Case, reported In (1911) 6 O’M. & H. 103, it was 
observed by Gibson J. (page 163): 

"A politician for his public conduct may be criticised, held up to obloquy; 
for that the statute gives no redress; but when the man beneath the 
politician has his honour, veracity, and purity assailed, he is entitled 
to demand that his constituents shall not be poisoned against him by 
false statements containing such unfounded imputations.” 

In the Borough of Sunderland’s case, reported in (1910) 5 O’M. & H, 53, a similar 
view was taken bv Mr. Baron Pollock, who observed at p. 62 that any false state- 
ment, whether charging dishonesty or merely bringing a man Into contempt. If It 
affects, or Is calculated to affect, the election, comes within the election statute and 
in such a case the Court has nothing whatever to do with the question which arises 



572 THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7 , 19 fi 9 /PHALGUN\ 16 , 1880 [Part II 


in cases of libel as to whether there was malice. And the two Illustrations which 
he has given show how statements about what may be regarded as perfectly in- 
nocent acts in England, which may be ascribed to candidates at the time of the, 
election may come within the mischief of the election statute. He observes (Dace 


“supposing any gentleman in a country constituency was to say of his adver- 
sary that he had shot a fox, and he said it for the purpose of working 
upon the minds of the constituency during an election, that would 
Certainly come within the meaning of the Act. Again, if any person 
in a constituency, where one of the Members was a temperance man, 
were to say that he had seen him drinking a glass of sherry — a perfect- 
ly Innocent act — that would also bring him within the Act.” 

BUt then it is further stated that a greater difficulty arises when the question 
has to bo considered as to what is a statement of fact and Mr. Baron Pollock 
stated: 


"A mere argumentative statement of the conduct of a public man, although 
It may be in respect of his private life, is not always, and in many 
cases certainly would not be, a false statement of fact.’’ 

In another case known as The Cockermouth Division Case, reported In the same 
volume, i.e. (1910) 5 O’M. & H. 155, this is whnt Mr. Justice Darling stated (p. 
159-160); 

“Now it must be noted that what the Act forbids is this: You shall not make 
or publish any false statement of fact in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of such candidate; If you do, It is an illegal prac- 
tice. It is not an offence to say something which may be severe about 
another person, nor which may be unjustifiable, nor which may be 
derogatory, unless It amounts to a false statement of fact in relation 
to the personal character or conduct of such candidate; and I think 
the Act says that there is a great distinction to be drawn between a 
false statement of fact, which affects the personal character or con- 
duct of the candidate, and a false statement of fact which deals with 
the political position or reputation or action of the candidate. If that 
were not kept in mind this statute would simply have prohibited at 
election times all sorts of criticism which was not strictly true, relat- 
ing to the political behaviour and opinions of the candidate.” 

These remarks of Mr. Justice Darling were made in connection with the publica- 
tion of a placard by the Respondent in that case which was alleged to have in- 
fringed the provisions of the Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act, 1895. 
Ih Ellis v. The National Union of Conservatives, etc. (1900) Sol, Jour. 750 Justice 
Buckley was interpreting the expression 'false statement of fact' under the same 
Act, which conferred on the Court the power to restrain defamatory statement, and 
the learned Judge observed: 

“The language of the statute is- 'false statement of fact’, and that language 
must be used in contrast to a false statement of opinion. The 
language to not merely a ‘false statement’, but a 'false statement of 
fact’. Secondly, the statement must be in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of the candidate. It must, therefore, be a false 
statement of fact bearing on a candidate’s character or conduct." 

In that case, the Court was considering the question of restraining the publication 
of a poster in which the words "Radical Traitors” were used and Mr. Justice 
Buckley held that the wording of the poster constituted a statement of opinion 
rather than one of fact. In Bayley v. Edmunds, Byron and Marshall (1895) T.L.R. 
537, C.A., a charge that the candidate “hypocritically feeling in his conscience that 
he was doing wrong for the purpose of making large profits for himself, locked his 
workmen for a certain length of time, and that then, some time afterwards, he 
found that his conscience reproved him, and resolved he would starve them no 
longer”, was held to be a statement within the mischief of the statute. In Davies 
v. Ward referred to in Halsbury, a statement that a candidate would not pay his 
hotel bill or debts was placed on the same footing. See Halsbury’s Laws of 
England, third edition, Volume 14, page 227, Note (a) which quoted these Instances. 
See also Parliamentary Elections by Schofield, second edition, pages 435 to 438. 

It Is clear from these decisions that in order to come within the rmbit of the 
term 'corrupt practice’ under s. 123(4) of the Act, there must be a false statement 
of fact by a candidate or his agent which is made in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of any other candidate Adverse criticism, however severe. 



573 


Sic, 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


however undignified or illmaimercd, however regrettable It might be in the interests 
Of purity and decency of public life, in relation to the political views, position, 
reputation or action of a candidate, would not bring it within the mischief of the 
statute. The Court In such matters cannot judge these statements in the light of 
their decency or desirability* in so far as they are political statements not calculat- 
ed Lo attack the personal character or conduct of any rival candidate. Further, 
what Is objectionable Is a false statement of fact and not a false statement of 
opinion, however unfounded or however unjustified. It is only when the person 
beneath the politician is sought to be assailed and his honour, integrity and vera- 
city is challenged and such a statement is false that it could be said that a false 
statement of fact about his personal character and conduct has been made; and 
once It is established that such a statement was made, th^ question whether there 
was malice or not is immaterial. In ascertaining the true nature of the statement 
made, the Court will have to take into consideration all the surrounding circum- 
stances Including the occasion when it was published or made, the rerson against 
whom it was made, the person publishing it or making it, the audience or reader* 
to whom It is addressed, as also the precautions or care taken by the publimer to 
verify the truth or otherwise of the statement challenged. It Is in the light of these 
principles that we have to examine the statements which have been objected to by 
the petitioner as having been made by Mr. Atre in his paper the “Maratha” on 
behalf of respondents Nos. 1 and 2. 

Taking these statements chronologically, our attention was invited to Exhibit 
P-2, which is a letter appearing in the Maratha of 2nd February 1967. That letter 
is signed by one Smt. Vljaya Vinuyak Parpatte of Dadar. In that letter, which Is 
headed “S. K. Patil’s schemes (designs)”, a portion of three lines was objected to 
by the petitioner. That portion which is exhibited as Bl in Exhibit P-2 reads 
thus, “One man had come to inform that he was standing as independent candi- 
date for L,ok Sabha from Bombay City Central Constituency. This man’s candi- 
dature Is also Patil sponsored.” With reference to this statement, it is to be 
observed in the first instance that there is no direct reference to the petitioner at 
all and it has to be remembered that Mr. Hendre was not the only independent 
candidate in that constituency, but Mr. Parulekar also was an Independent candi- 
date. Besides, it is urged by Mr. Chari that this statement is to be found in a 
letter written by a reader of the paper and, therefore, no responsibility could be 
attributed to Mr. Atre for the views expressed by a reader. I shall deal with this 
point a little later. 

The next statement is Exhibit P-3 appearing in the Maratha dated 3rd Febru- 
ary 1957, headed “Traitor’s Front — Front of the people trying to cause split in the 
Samyukta Maharashtra Samity” and that statement seems lo be from the columns 
in the Maratha containing comments on current events entitled Sword and Shield 
‘Dhal Talwar’ and the passage objected to Is: “Really this united front cf Hendre, 
Birje and Desai is living on the support (blessings) of S. K. Patil”. According to 
Mr. Dhabe, the sting in this passage is not in the description of the three indepen- 
dent candidates having a united front but in the description of these candidates 
being suggested as having been set up by Mr. S, K. Patil. But this statement also 
would be in the nature of political criticism. 

Then I come to Exhibit P-1 which is a letter appearing in the Maratha, dated 
14th February 1957 and signed by one Sudhir Ch&van, Bombay. The letter is 
given the title “History of Hendre’s candidature” and the following passages 
including the one marked A-3 from that letter are relied upon: — 

“Hendre was the right hand man of Yeshwantrao Chavan in the move- 
ment of 1942, was the well-wisher and sympathiser of Yeshwantrao 
and used to help the latter when underground with money, means 

and shelter In 1961 Yeshwantrao started for his oath- 

takmg ceremony after he became Minister with the cocoanut and 
garlands and felicitations from Hendre. After (the oath-taking 
ceremony, Hendre gave Yeshwantrao a big dinner party on the night 
of the oath-taking ceremony. But Hendre did not get contacts from 
Yeshwantrao after the latter became a Minister. Therefore Hendre 
left the friendship, house and name of Yeshwantrao. 

The elections came, The election front of S. M. Samiti came, into being. 
Lists of candidates started getting ready. Hendre started efforts that 
Samiti should nominate him from anywhere in Bombay or elsewhere 
he wanted a seat to contest; when no seat was vacant he showed his 



574 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ■ MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


willingness to contest against Jedhe. But after he came to know 
; ha V S Samiti was not willing to support him as its candidate' 
he became disappointed (dissatisfied)”. 


Mr. Dhabe naturally laid emphasis on the wording contained in the portion mark- 
ed A-3 Exhibit P-1. He contends that though the writer wants to give the 
history of his client’s candidature, in reality there is a veiled attack against hia 
personal character and conduct, and stress is laid particularly on the passage 
A-3 where there is an insinuation that because Mr. Hendre did not get any 
contracts from Mr. Yeshwantrao Chavan after he became Minister therefore 
Mr. Hendre proved false to his friendship and parted company from Mr. Chavan. 
The question is whether the letter read as a whole is an attack on the political 
views and reputation of the candidate or is an attack on his personal character 
and conduct. 

The petitioner has denied in his evidence the insinuations made in this letter. 
His evidence indicates that he came to Bombay in the beginning of 1945 and 
was interested in the business of Amortex Agency, Private, Ltd., where his wife 
also was a director. That Company was registered in April or May 1953. Before 
that, he was the accredited yam purchaser of Bhiwandi Sari Manufacturers’ 
Association. In 1946 he started an Import and Export Company called Sudhir 
and Co. and in the middle of 1948 he had established one silk mill called 
Lokrnanya Silk Mills. It appears that an insolvency petition was filed in 1948- 
against him and he was adjudicated an insolvent In May 1949 and was discharged 
from insolvency in 1951. From 1951 to 1953 he ran the business of Jagdish & Co. 
manufacturing surgical dressings on behalf of his wife and, as already stated, 
Amortex Agency also appears to have been started on behalf of his wife. He 
admits that he had applied to the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti for a ticket 
In or about the first week, of January 1957. Therefore, the statement in the 
letter (Exh. P-T) that Hendre had first made efforts to get the support of the 
Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti is not unfounded. He admits to have met Mr. 
Yeshwantrao Chavan on some occasions but there is nothing in his cross-exami- 
nation which would justify us in holding that he was trying to secure contracts 
with- the help of Mr. Chavan when he become a Minister. Mr. P. K. Atre in 
his evidence before the Tribunal stated with regard to this letter that it was 
written by one Sudhir Chavan, but he was not able to say where he lived and 
he stated that his address would have to be searched. He further stated that 
he verified the contents of that letter. He was unable to give the time and place 
of the reception to Mr. Chavan held by Shri Hendre in 1951, but even with 
reference to that he stated that he verified the information regarding the fact 
of reception. Then he further stated that he did not know if Mr. Chavan refused 
to give contracts to Mr. Hendre, nor was he able to give the date or time of 
the visit of the mother of Mr. Chavan to the house of Mr. Hendre. He stated 
that he could only state about the fact itself and he did not know this personally 
and he could not give the names of the persons who gave the Information to 
him. He also did not know personally if Mr, Y. B. Chavan set thp petitioner 
as a candidate or gave him help. 

Considering the circumstances under which this letter came to be published 
and the nature and the suggestions contained in the statement to which objection 
Is taken, we are not prepared to hold that this letter contains merely statements 
of opinion or facts which Mr. Atre could be said to have believed to be true. 

A reference to Mr, Hendre not getting any contracts from Mr. Yeshwantrao 
Chavan when he became a Minister, does not, in our opinion constitute merely 
a statement of fact about the political reputation of the petitioner, but in our 
view, it is also an attack on the personal character of the petitioner. There are 
other statements in that letter which do not seem to he objectionable from that 
point of view. 

Then the next statement to which objection is taken Is Exhibit P-5, which 
appears In the Maratha dated 7th March 1957 also in the same columns contain- 
ing comments on current events and there it is indicated that "Dr. Naravane’a 
lion of the Legislative Assembly will pounce upon the lion of Hendre, indepen- 
dent candidate for Lok Sabha, as the latter Hon is intended to mislead the 

voters ’’ This statement, in our opinion,* would not amount to any criticism 

on the personal character of the petitioner. 

Then we are referred to a statement (Exhibit P-31) made by Mr. Dange, 
respondent No. 1, which appeared in the Maratha dated 16th March 1957. It is 
true that this letter appeared after 11th March 1957 when the voting at all the 
polling stations had taken place. But the objection of the petitioner to this 



575 


fl*c. S <ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/FHALGHNA IS, 1880 


drtatement is that it was made before 21st March 1957 when a flesh poll was to 
take place in the Tardeo Polling Station. That statement undoubtedly contains 
a fling at the Election Commission which may not bo fair or proper. But the 
objection of the petitioner is to the suggestion of Mr. Dange that Mr. Chavan 
and his followers were trying to get an application filed through Mr. Hendre 
in order to get the election set aside. That, in our view, would not be a state- 
ment which would come within the mischief of section 123(4) of the Act, 

Then the last statement to which our attention was invited la Exhibit P-8 
appearing in the Maratha dated 20th March 1957, which suggested that Mr. 
Hendre, advised by Mr. Yeshwantrao Chavan and the Democratic Research 
Service — an institution financed by American money, was standing for Lok Sabha 
from the Bombay Central Constituency against Mr. Dange. This statement also 
1 b purely a political statement. 

These are the only statements on which Mr. Dhabe relied in support of hi* 
contention that false propaganda intended to lower the personal character of the 
petitioner was made by the successful candidates. I have already indicated our 
view that so far as the letter written by Sudhir Chavan (Exhibit P-1) appearing 
in the Maratha of 14th February 1957 goes, the reference to Mr. Hendre seeking 
contracts from Mr. Chavan after he became a Minister, and his failure to get 
them does appear to be an attack on the personal character of the petitioner 
and the statement would, therefore, come within the mischief of section 123(4).. 
As regards the other statements, the grievance of the petitioner is that he haa 
been described as having been set up by Mr. Chavan and by Mr. S. K_ Patil 
and that his candidature is supported by the American Democratic Research 
Service, but these statements would not, in our opinion, be open to similar 
objection. 

Now, Mr, Chari on behalf of the respondents contended that we must make 
a distinction between editorial or semi-editorial comments contained in the 
Maratha and comments made by readers of the Maratha, whose letteis are publish- 
ed by the editor. We are not prepared to accept this argument. If letters are 
published in newspapers containing statements which are derogatory to persons 
mentioned In those letters, we do not think that the editor can escape respon- 
sibility for what is contained in those letters. It may be that the letters might 
contain the views of the readers and if it is made clear, as Is generally done, that 
the views expressed in the readers’ letters are not necessarily the views of the 
paper, then no doubt such letters may stand on somewhat different footing. But 
if the letters contain statements of facts which are false, then we do not think 
it could be said that the editor would not be responsible for what is stated in 
those letters. Mr. Atre in fact in his evidence has stated that he took precautions 
to verify the facts contained in the letters and he stated that when lette. s are 
sent to his paper for publication, the facts are verified but not the opinions which 
are of the writer of the letters himself. Referring to the letter (Exhibit P-2) 

J mblished in his paper, he stated that he himself and his reporters verified the 
nformation, though he was unable to give the names of his : eporters, but stated 
that he himself collected some information. He further stated that he had a 
strong suspicion that Mr. S. K. Patil gave financial assistance to Mr, Hendre^ 
though he was unable to say when Mr. S. K. Patil gave money to Mr. Hendre, 
before whom, at what time and on what date. He also stated that when he 
was in the Congress he had done Congress propaganda in 1945 in company with 
Mr. S. K. Patil and he personally knew that M *. Patil financed the sabotaging 
of opposition candidates. He further stated that he had seen Mr. Hendre in the 
company of Mr. S. K. Patil at least twice, when he dined in his company in the 
Chetana Hotel in Bombay and secondly when the petitioner emerged out of the 
Congress House, Bombay, in company with Mr. S. K. Patil. and that he was 
justified from this in inferring that Mr. Hendre wag hand in glove with Mr. Patil. 
As I already stated, the petitioner denied that he was set up either by Mr. Patil 
or by Mr. Chavan. Mr. S. K. Patil categorically denied that he had set up 
Mr. Hendre as a candidate for the Bombay City Central Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency and asserted that he had never seen him before the election and did not 
In fact know the existence of Mr. Hendre. The other independent candidate 
Dr. Desai, who subsequently withdrew, also denied that he was set up as a 
candidate by Mr. Patil. It has to be mentioned that though the petitioner, 
Dr. Desai and Dr. Birje had a sort of understanding in these elections, the latter 
two having stood for seats to the State Legislative Assembly, Dr. Desai and 
Dr. Birje withdrew from the contest and the allegation against these candidates 
was that they were set up by Mr. Patil. But, as already stated. Dr. Desai denied 
that his candidature was sponsored by Mr. Patil. Mr. Dange stated in his evid- 
ence that he did not believe that Mr. Hendre was put up by Mr. S. K- Patil or" 



576 


THE GAZETTE OV INDIA. MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGl'NA 16, 1880 [Part II 


Mr. Y. B. Chavan, though he admitted that in his speeches at meetings he expressed 
his apprehension that the independent candidates would split up votes and thereby 
indirectly help the Congress and he made a general appeal that all candidates 
opposed to the Samiti should withdraw. Mr. Lalji Pandse, the election agent 
of Mr. Dange, admitted that he did not issue any statement repudiating the 
Propaganda m the Maratha alleging that Mr. Hendre was put up by Mr. Patfl and 
Mr, Cnavan; and this gains partial support from the evidence of witness 
Mr. Wable, who was examined on behalf of the petitioner. Mr, Wable stated 
that he was the editor of the weekly paper ‘Shivaner’ and at a meeting at Shivaji 
Park on 9th March 1957 Mr. Dange had said that independent candidates like 
Shri Hendre should withdraw from the contest and if they did not withdraw, 
it was well known what would happen next. Mr. Dange further said that 
Mr. Hendre was not an independent candidate and was set up by the Congress 
and so he could not be in favour of the Samyukta Maharashtra. But that itself 
shows that Mr. Dange never alleged in his speeches that Mr. Hendre was either 
sponsored or financed by Mr. Patil or Mr. Chavan. The evidence however shows 
that the statement that Mr. Hendre was sponsored by Mr. Patil or Mr. Chavan 
was a false statement. There is no reliable evidence to indicate that the peti- 
tioner received any financial support from the Democratic Research Service 
alleged to be financed by American money. In his evidence however Mr. Hendre 
admitted that he knew that there was an organisation of the name of Demo- 
cratic Research Service, and it has been brought out in his cross-examination 
that he had an admiration for the economic system of America. In our opinion, 
that would not justify any inference that the petitioner’s candidature was financ- 
ed by the Democratic Research Service or that this Service itself was financed 
by American money. 


But even taking these statements to be false statements, it does appear that 
Mr. Atre tried to verify some of the statements contained in the letters published 
by him and believed that those statements were true. It cannot, therefore, be said 
that these false statements of facts were known to be false to Mr. Atre or that 
he did not believe them to be true, Apart from that, in our judgment, describ- 
ing a candidate as really not independent but as being supported by other parties 
or prominent persons of other parties would not amount to an attack on his 
personal character. It is true that Mr. Hendre described himself as an indepen- 
dent candidate. It is also true that according to him, he sympathised with the 
cause of Samyukta Maharashtra and disagreed with the Congress on several 
political matters. But even then, if a belief was entertained by his opponents 
that he was set up by the Congress, that, in our opinion, would not amount to 
making an attack on his personal character or conduct. Mr. Dhabe contended 
that describing a candidate as other than what he was standing for would really 
be an attack on his honesty of character. In this connection, he relied on Sye d 
Hifazat Ali v. Mi* Mohamad Asghar, Doabia’s Indian Election Cases, Vol. I, 
p. 276, where a candidate set up by the Muslim League was depicted to be in 
league with the Congress, which was alleged to have paid him Rs. 10,000 and 
it was further alleged that he had promised to sign the Congress pledge after 
his success. That case stands on a different footing because the allegation In 
that case was that not only was the candidate in league with a rival body but 
a traitor to the body which had adopted him as a candidate. 


It is further contended that these statements, though they may not amount 
to an attack on the personal character of Mr. Hendre, would certainly be false 
statements made in relation to Mr. Hendre’s candidature. Mr. Dhabe argued 
that the expression “in relation to the candidature" in section 123(4) of the Act 
is an expression with a wide cannotation and cannot be given the restricted 
meaning attributed to it by the Election Tribunal, viz., the bundle of rights and 
qualifications which entitle a person to stand as a candidate in a particular cons- 
tituency as well as the factum of his being a candidate. Under section 79(b) 
of the Act, a “candidate” is defined as “a person who has been or claims to have 
been duly nominated as a candidate at any election, and any such person shall 
be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time when with the election 
in prospect, he began to hold himself out as a prospective candidate”. The first 
limb of this definition undoubtedly seems to refer to the qualifications oi a person 
for being nominated as a candidate in any constituency and to the fact of his 
so nominated. The second part provides that that person will be deemed to 
get the status of a candidate with effect from the time he begins to hold out as 
a prospective candidate. But Mr, Dhabe’s argument in effect amounts to this, 
that any false statement of fact made about a person, after he announced his 
candidature, must come within the ambit of the expression "in relation to the 
candidature . But that interpretation would not fit in with the subsequent terms 



Sec. 3 (ii)l 1 HE GAZETTE O* INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/EHALGUNA 16, 1880 


577' 


undt l in fcciion 123(4) which refer to the withdrawal or retirement from con- 
test .T any candidate, According to the Concise Oxford Dictionary, “candida- 
ture" means "standing for election, being candidate’’. Speaking for myself, in 
v"?v7 of tile use of the subsequent expression “withdrawal, or retirement from 
cunt 'st, of any candidate’’, in section 123(4’) of the Act, the term "candidature” 
muot have reference to his qualifications for bemg nominated as a candidate 
in a constituency and to his being so nominated in fact. But since we have held 
that Mr. Atrc did noi believe these statements of fact to be false, it is not neces- 
sary for us to go further into this question. 

That takes me to the question whether the statement contained in the letter 
(Exhibit P-1) by one Sudhir Chavan, published in the Maratha of 14 February 
1957, a portion of which we have held to be an attack on the personal character 
of Mr. Hendre, should justify us in holding that it is a false statement made 
by Mr. Atre as the agent of the successful candidates. In this connection, Mr. 
Dhabe strongly relies on Explanation (1) to section 123 of the Act, which says 
that the expression “agent” m the section “includes an election agent, a polling 
agent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent in connection with 
the election with the consent of the candidate. Mr. Dhabe contends that the 
term "agent” in section 123 cannot be interpreted in the sense it has under the 
law of Contract, and that under the law applied to elections it must be held 
to have a wider connotation. According to him, no authorisation op declaration 
in writing is necessary and the fact of agency wild be established by circum- 
stances arising out of the general features of the case, the conduct and connec- 
tion of the parties, and the subsequent recognition of the acts of the supposed 
agent or at least an absence of disavowal of such acts, and that the doctrine of 
agent is carried by election law much farther than in civil and criminal cases. 
He drew our attention to the observations of Grave J. in Boston (1874) 
2 O’M & H. 167 quoted in Fraser’s the Law of Parliamentary Elections 3rd 
Edition, page 73, which states as follows: — 

"With regard to Election Law, the matter goes a great deal further because 
a number of persons are employed for the purpose of promoting 
an election who are not only not authorised to do corrupt acts but 
who are expressly enjoined to abstain from doing so. Nevertheless, 
the law says that if a man chooses to allow a number of people 
to go about canvassing for him, to issue placards, to form a com- 
mittee for his election, and to do things of the sort, he must, to use 
a colloquial expression, take the bad with the good. He cannot 
avail himself of these people’s acts for the purpose of promoting hi s 
election and then turn his back or sit quietly by, and let them 
corrupt the constituency.” 

He also relied on Hemmound’s observation in &is book, ""The Indian Candi- 
date and Returning Officer”, at page 57, to the following effect: — 

“In the ordinary sense of the word, a man cannot easily make another his 
agent without having his eyes fully open to what he Is doing. But 
he may create an agent in the election sense of the word without 
being conscious of what is being done and in fact, in such a manner 
that when the person is ultimately decided to be his agent nobody 
is more astonished than himself,” 

Mr. Dhabe further argued that in case this principle is accepted, then it must 
necessarily be held that newspape-s which make special propaganda for the 
election of a particular candidate could, in certain circumstances, be treated as 
the candidate’s agents for purposes' of election law; and in this connection reli- 
ance was placed on the following observation of Blackburn J. quoted in Rogers 
on ‘Elections’ (P, 391): — 

“A candidate is responsible generally, you may say, for the deeds of those 
who to his knowledge for the purpose of promoting his election, 
canvass and do such other acts as may tend to promote his elec- 
tion, provided that the candidate on his authorised agents have- 
reasonable knowledge that those persons are so acting with that 
object.” [Wakefield (1874) 2 O’M & H 103]. Parker in his “Elec- 
tion Agent and Returning Officer” has stated as follows (Pages 311 
and 312): — I 

"It is not necessary, in order to prove agency, to show that the person 
was actually appointed by the candidate, it is sufficient to show 
the conduct or connection of the parties, the recognition by the 



578 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MARCH 7, I959/PHALGIINA 16, 1880 [Part II 


candidate of the acts of the person alleged to be an agent, or the 
absence of any disavowal of such acts, The various acts proved 
to establish agency may each, taken singly, be insufficient, and 
yet taken as a whole, may be held to prove agency conclusively. 
Where the agency cannot be distinctly proved, it may be inferred 
or implied from the acts of the candidate, and from other facts and 
circumstances . ’ ’ 

“Every instance in which it is shown that, either with the knowledge 
of the candidate, or of his appointed agents, a person acts at all 
in furthering the election for him, or in trying to do so, in some 
evidence to show that he is an agent; and if a person assumes to 
act for a candidate, and the latter accepts his services, he makes 
such person his agent. To establish agency, therefore, it may be 
unnecessary to show that the election agent himself knew of and 
accepted services voluntarily tendered: knowledge and acceptance 
by other persons in control of the election may be sufficient.” 

These passages and the observe! • ms of F-igllsh Judges on the legal aspect of 
agency in elections would appeir to support Mr. Dhabe’s contention. Reference 
may also be made to Schofield’s Parliamentary Elections, Second addition, pages 201 
"to 205 where after quoting numerous passages from decision In election cases, It 
Is observed that though the law of agency as applied to election petitions has been 
’ differently expressed by different learned judges, all agree that the relation Is not 
the common law one of principal and agent, but the candidate may be responsible 
for the acts of one acting on his behalf, though such acts are beyond the scope of 
the authority given, or indeed in violation of express Injunction (p. 205). In cur 
opinion, this would represent the correct legal position regarding agency in 
•elections. 

Mr. Dhabe says that there Is ample evidence on the record to establish that 
Mr, P. K. Atre was an agent, so far as election propaganda was concerned, of both 
the candidates Messrs, Dange and Many, who stood on the Samyukta Maharashtra 
ticket, It is not disputed that Mr. Dange was the Chairman of the Samyukta 
Maharashtra Election Samiti and Mr. Atre was a member of that Election Samiti. 
The Samiti consisted of various political parties of Maharashtra and the Commu- 
nist Party was one such constituent party of which Mr. Dange is a member. There 
Is also no dispute that Mr, Manay was a member of the scheduled Castes Federa- 
tion, now known as the Republican Party, and stood' for a reserved seat on behalf 
of that party In the same constituency, Mr. Atre admits that the Samiti had no 
•single political symbol, as It is a joint front of different political parties, The 
Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti had given badges to its workers and volunteers. 
There was no particular propaganda fn favour of a particular candidate. There 
was general propaganda, Such of the workers who were carrying on active work 
were wearing the badges of the Samiti. It was also admited by Mr. Dange that 
he ana Mr. Atre jointly addressed some election meetings. He stated that when 
his candidature was accepted by the Parliamentary Board of the Fumyukta 
Maharashtra Samiti Mr, Atre was not present. He explained that there were two 
types of members of the Board-regular members and invitees and Mr. Atre was 
only an Invitee member. He also admitted that one Vinayak, Bhave was a mem- 
ber of the Communist Party and at the time of the election he was doing voluntary 
•service in the office of the Maratha Newspaper. He also stated that the Samyuk- 
ta Maharashtra Samiti had nothing to do with the Maratha which was Mr. Atre’s 
proprietory concern. Mr. Atre also stated in his evidence that the Maratha was 
his sole proprietory concern, but he admitted that propaganda was carried on In 
the Maratha on behalf of the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti and that he was carry- 
ing on propaganda in favour of Messrs Dange and Manay. It would appear from 
Mr. Dange’s evidence that the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti as such had no offi- 
cial organ of Its own. In his cross-examination Mr. Dange admitted that he contri- 
buted. in the beginning of January 1958, Rs. 3000/- to the Maratha for purchasing 
a Rotary Machine, as his contributes to the Rotary Fund started by the Maratha, 
On this evidence, the Election Tribunal held that Mr. Atre was an agent of Messrs. 
Dange and Manay so far as speaking at public meetings was concerned, but he was 
not an agent with regard to propaganda that was carried on on behalf of these two 
candidates in the columns of the Maratha. 


The finding of the Election Tribunal that Mr. Atre could be regarded as on 
;agent for the purpose of addressing meeting ha3 not been challenged before us and 
It seems that it cannot be so challenged because admittedly a political campaign 
•bv way of public meeting was being carried on on behalf of the candidates who 
•had obtained Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti tickets. The question is whether Mr. 
Atre could be also regarded as an agent of the two successful candidates when no 



579 


■Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 10, 1880 


carried on propaganda, in his paper Maratha on behalf of the Samyukta Maha- 
rashtra Samiti candidates. It has been admitted by Mr. Lalji Pendse, the election 
agent of Mr. Dange, that there was a joint office of the Samyukta Maharashtra 
Samiti for propaganda on behalf of the candidates. Mr. Atre, as we have already 
seen, has also stated that the propaganda was carried on in the Maratha which was 
his sole proprietory concern, on behalf of the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti candi- 
dates and he was accordingly carrying on propaganda in favour of Messrs. Dange 
and Manay also. He was a member of the Samiti of which Mr. Dange was the 
chairman. Now, being a member of a candidate’s election committee has been 
held to be strong evidence of agency, Sec Halsbury’s Laws of England, third 
edition, Volume, 14, page 171, para 304. In the case of elections as we have ai- 
read} seen, the expression “agent” has to be given a wider interpretation end, in 
our judgment, therefore the Tribunal’s view that Mr. Atre was not an agent n f 
Messrs. Dange and Manay with regard to election propaganda is not correct. We 
must, therefore, hold that so far as Exhibit P-1, the letter by Sudhir Chavan, 
appearing in the Maratha of 14th February 1957 is concerned, there was a publica- 
tion by an agent of the candidate and the portion A-3 objected to in that letter 
contains a false statement in relation to the personal character of the petitioner 
Hendre. The evidence would also indicate that Mr. Atre could not have believed 
the statement to be true, and that statement was undoubtedly ctlculated to 
prejudice the prospects of the petitioner’s election. Wo must, therefore, held that 
so far as the portion A-3 in Exhibit P-1 is concerned, there has been a corrupt 
practice with the meaning of s, 123(4) of the Act, 

That takes me to the question whether the election of the returned candidates 
"has to be declared void under section 100 of the Act. Mr. Dhabe’s contention 
is that this statement in Exh. P-1 would amount to a corrupt practice and would 
come within section 100(1) (b) of the Act inasmuch as, according to him, it ia 
committed by a person with the consent of the returned candidate or his election 
agent. In this connection, our attention was invited both by Mr. Dhabe as well as 
Mr. Chari to section 100. before its amendment in 1956. Under the old section 
100(2) (b), the 'Tribunal had to arrive at a finding that the corrupt practice had 
been committed by a returned candidate or his agent or by any other person 
with the connivance of the returned candidate or his agent; so that under the 
section, before its amendment, a corrupt practice committed by any agent would 
“have come within the mischief of this section. If it was not committed by either 
the returned candidate or his agent but hy any other person, then, before it 
could affect the election, it had to be with the connivance of the returned candidate 
or his agent; and connivance undoubtedly means, in the context, consent, express 
or implied. After the amendment, the section has substituted for the expression 
"agent” the expression “election agent”, so that a corrupt practice has to be 
committed by a returned candidate or his election agent; and then no question of 
consent naturally arises. But if it is a corrupt practice, which has not been 
committed by a candidate or his election agent, then before it affects the election, 
it has to be proved that it has been committed by anv other person With the 
consent of the returned candidate or his agent. At one stage, Mr. Chari attempted 
to argue that the word “consent” must necessarily imply express consent that 
be had to concede that consent may be express as well as implied. Since 
Mr. Atre was not the election agent of respondent Nos. 1 and 2, the question 
whether he was an agent for the ourpose of propaganda is not really relevant 
for thei purpose of this section. Before Mr. Dhabe’s client can take advantage 
of section 100(1) (b) he will have to prove that Mr. Atre, in publishing the 
impunged statement in Exhibit P-1, had either the implied or express consent of 
Messrs. Dange and Manay or their election agents. Now, Mr. Dhabe contend# 
that we must look to the circumstances under which this publication was made. 
It is undoubtedly true that the Maratha was carrying on a campaign in favour 
of all the candidates set up by the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti. But the 
question is whether all theise candidates will be bound by any statement that 
appeared in the Maratha. Just as Mr. Atre would be an agent "for the returned 
■candidates in respect of the propaganda carried on in the Maratha in their favour 
be would also be an agent for the other candidates set up by the Samyukta 
Maharashtra Samiti. In an election of this type, the news paper is bound to 
publish statements and appeals and everything that may be published in the 
newspaper would not bind the candidate, unless it is proved that there was 
either implied or express consent of either the candidate or his election agent. 
Mr. Dhabe argued that though undoubtedly the onus in such cases is on the 
person challenging the election, the Court may have regard to all the circum- 
stances in which the propaganda on behalf of the successful candidates is carried 
«on. In support of his argument Mr. Dhabe relied on an observation of the 
Supreme Court in Jagan Nath v. Jaswant Singh A.I.R, 1954 S.C. 210, where it 
twas observed that it is always to be bom© in mind that though the election of # 



580 


THE GAZETTE OI INDIA 


MARCH 7 1WJ/PHALGLNA 16, 1880 [Pari l! 


successful candidate is not to be lightly interfered with one, of the essentials 
of that law is also to safeguard the purity of the election process and also to sec 
that people do not get elected by migrant breaches of that law 01 by corrupt 
practices Though this observation has been made in connection with a diffeient 
set of circumstances, the principle undei lying this observation has to be accepted 
in deciding election cases In this connection Mr Chan relied on the meaning 
of the word ‘consent’, as given in Wharton’s Law Lexicon, as being ‘ an act of 
reason accompanied with deliberation, the mind weighing as in a balance the 
good or evil on either side Consent supposes thiee things — physical power, a 
mental power, and a free and serious use of them ” Reference may also be made 
in this connection to a passage from Halsbury’s Law of England, third edition, 
Volume 14, page 170 paragraph 301, which is to the following effect 

“here non-interference on the part of the candidate with persons who, 
feeling interested in the success of the candidate, may act m support 
of his canvass is not sufficient to saddle the candidate with any 
unlawful acts of theirs of which the candidate and his election agent 
are ignorant.” 

Taunton (Borough) Case (1874) 2 O’M & H 66 at 74 There is nothing on 
the record of this case which would indicate that either the returned candidates 
Messrs Dange and Manay or their election agents had knowledge about this 
letter (Exhibit P-1) appearing m the Marafha of 14th February 1956 No question 
or suggestion seems to have been put either to Mr Dange or Mr Manay or 
Mr Lalji Pendse, Mr Dange’s election agent, on this point We may also observe 
that with regard to some of the other statements also, about which grievance 
was made but which wei have held to be not false statements of fact affecting 
the personal character or conduct of the petitioner, there is no evidence to show 
that either of the returned candidates or their election agents had knowledge 
about these statements If that be so, it cannot be held that the statement in 
Exhibit P-1 has been madei with the consent, express or implied, of respondents 
Nos 1 and 2 or their election agents Giving our most anxious Consideration to 
this question, we must hold that even this statement would not fall within section 
100(1) (b) of the Act 

Dr Dhabe has not relied on section 100( 11(b) ( 11 ) o’ the Act he has frankly- 
stated that there is no evidence that this corrupt practice even though it may 
have been committed m the interests of the returned candidate, would have 
materially affected the result of the election m so far as it concerned and returned 
candidates 

That takes me to the third and fourth points which have been urged before us 
by Mr. Dhabe. He has relied on three exhibits, viz , Exhibits P 26, P-48 and P-27 
(which is the same as Exhibit P 53) for the purpose of his argument that the 
election is vitiated by corrupt practice on account of undue influence and also on 
account of a systematic appeal being made by the respondents and their agents 
to electors to vote on grounds of community, which statements, according to 
Mr Dhabe, would fall within the ambit of section 123(2) and (3) of the Act 
I will take both these points together because reliance is placed on the same three 
exhibits regarding these points In this connection, our attention is drawn to 
Exhibit P-48, which is a statement which appeared in the Marathq, dated 6th 
March 1957, over the signature of Mr Dange, as the president of the Samyukta 
Maharashtra Samiti The statement reads thus- Brother workers, in the name of 
Maharashtra and 105 martyrs do not go out on 11th without giving votes and do 
not betray Samyukta Maharashtra” We fail to see how such an appeal would 
either be an appeal to the voters to vote on grounds of community or how it 
would amount to undue influence The appeal is addressed to the workers and 
It cannot, therefore, he obviously said that It Is an appeal to any particular com- 
munity This appeal is published m the Maratha Just before the date of the 
election which was 11th March and the same was declared to be a holiday The 
workers were, therefore enjoined not to go out without recording their votes. 
Mr Dhabe says that this statement refers fo the dutv of the workers “in the 
name of Maharashtra and 105 martyrs” to give their votes on the 11th We do 
•not think on that ground it would either amount to any threat or injury of any 
kind or social ostracism and excommunation or expulsion from caste or com- 
munity or of the electors being threatened that they would be objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure, as Mr Dhabe tried to suggest relying cn the 
provisions of s 123(2), Proviso (a) ( 1 ) and (11), of the Act Nor can this appeal 
be regarded as an appeal to voters to vote on grounds of community or religion. 



Sec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


581 


Then our attention is invited to Exhibit P-26, which is an issue of the Maratha 
dated 11th March 1957. Objection is taken to several passages in this issue. There 
is, first of all, the appeal to “Lions of Maharastra, make the Congress bullocks 
bold away”. There is also an appeal, “Saints and warriors of Maharashtra, give 
us your blessings”. Then there is also an appeal to the following effect: "Worship 
the Shivashakti (power of Shivaji) of Maharashtra with the Lei (leaves) of your 
votes”. Then there is an appeal headed “Vow of the Maratha” with a picture 
below which are the words: “Where is the black stone of the great bilingual? 
I reduce it to powder by the hammer of votes.” Then on the third page of the 
issue, photographs of persons who were killed in the Bombay firing are published 
and on the top of the page there is a heading “Marathas of Bombay, take revenge 
of this devilish murder”. Below these photographs are the words, ‘The Congress 
ballot box is besmeared with the blood of the martyrs.” On the fourth page of 
the issue there is a picture of a hand with the Congress ballot box on the palm 
and on the top of the picture are the words: “Have you seen this ballot box 
of the Congress?” and at the bottom are the words “It is smeared with the blood 
of the Marathas". The Tribunal was disposed to take the view that all these were 
political statements, however strong the words used therein, and wo are not 
disposed to take a different view of either the statements or the pictures published 
in this issue. 


Exhibit P-27, which is the same as P.53, is a poster issued admittedly by the 
Communigt Party on the same date, i.e., lHh March 1957, and on the top or this 
poster there are words expressing “salutation to the immortal martyrs who 
sacrificed their lives in the cause of Samukta Maharashtra and Mahagujrat” and 
at the botton there is an appeal that the sacrifice of these martyrs should be 
remembered and the voters should make the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti 
successful. That also, in our opinion, is in substance a political appeal to the 
voters. Mr. Dhabe contended that both Exmbit P-26 and Exh. P-27 contain 
ghastly pictures and were bound to revive the memory of firings in Bombay and 
would therefore, amount to undue influence or a direct or indirect interference 
with the electors’ right to freely exercise their power to vote. It cannot be denied 
that these pictures were meant to be a n appeal to the sentiments of the voters, 
but we are not prepared on that account to say that the publication of these 
pictures in the issue of the Maratha or the publication of the poster on the voting 
day amounted to undue influence which constituted any direct or Indirect inter- 
ference with the electors’ right to freely exercise their power to vote. 


Alternatively, Mr. Dhabe contended that the reference to the Marathas of 
Bombay in Exhibit P-26 was an appeal to the voters to vote in favour of the 
Samiti candidates on grounds of community Mr. Dhabe said that It might either be 
an appeal to the Maratha community a 3 such or an appeal to the Maratha speaking 
citizens of Bombay. But these, according to Mr, Dhabe, it would come within 
the mischief of section 123 of the Act. He further argued that we should not, in 
considering this appeal, construe the term ‘community’ in the popular sense’ of 
that term, and in this connection he relied on the case of Yeshvantrao vs K. T 
Mangalmurti (1957) 60 Bom. L.R. 353, where a Division Bench of this Court 
construed the expression “all the contesting candidates” in section 82(a) of the 
Act as meaning not merely those candidates who contested at the election, but 
also those candidates who contested lor the election, and the Court rejected 
the meaning of the expression “contesting candidate who retired from 
the contest” as not being a contesting candidate in the popular 
acceptation of the term. That was undoubtedly a case on different facts In 
construing the word “community” in section 123(3) we must no doubt give the 
word its natural meaning if it can bring out the real intention of the Legislature 
In this connection Mr. Chari referred us to a passage from Maxwell on the 
Interpretation of Statutes, 10th edition, pages 19 and 20, Mr. Chari contended 
that we must construe the term “community” bearing in mind the rule In 
Heiydon’s case which required consideration of the law as it stood when the 
statute to be construed was passed, the nature of the mischief or defect for 
which the old law did not provide and the remedy and the reason for it which 
was provided by the subsequent statute to cure that mischief or defect In this 
case, there is no amendment in the wording of section 123(3) which is the same 
as the wording of the old, section 124(5) prior to the amendment of the Act in 
1956. Before the said amendment, this kind of corrupt practice was classed as 
a minor corrupt practice, as distinguished from major corrupt practices included 
m section 123 of the old Act, That distinction between major and minor con-unt 
practices was done away by the amendment of the Act in 1956. Mr. Chari con- 
tends that we ought note to construe the term “community" so as to include 
a ,, commi i n , lt J r persons speaking a common language. According to him, 
Whftt Pailiamont intended, was the avoidance of rousing of communal Or religious 



582 TIDE GAZETTE Of INiHA : NlAkGH 7, l 9 ft 9 /l‘llAt.G tJNA 10, 18 ‘rt [I'akt li 


passions to influence voting at elections and that, he contends, must be understood 
in the sense it wOs always understood in this country so far. Now, the Hepretsenta 
turn of the People Act was passed in 11)51 and it was amended in 19511 and 
Mr. Dhabc’s argument in reply to Mr. Chari's contention is that in 1950 circum- 
stances had considerably changed on account of the re-organisalion ol Slates and 
the agitation which ensued 111 connection with it, and he contends that the term 
“community" would also, therefore apply to a ‘linguistic’ community and 
leliance is placed on the principle oi construction which allows the extension ot 
the language ot a statute to new circumstances In this connection, reference 
may usefully be made to a passage from Maxwell on the Interpretation of statues, 
10th edition, at page 79: 

“Except in some cases where the principle of excessively strict construction 
has been applied, the language of a stature is generally extended to 
now things, which were not known and could not have been con- 
templated by the legislature when it was passed. This occurs when 
the Act deals with a genus, and the thing which aftej wards comes 
into existence is a species of it.” 

There is somei force in what Mr. Dhabe has contended Now, in sub-scct ion 
13) of section 13.3 of the Act, what is regarded as objectionable is a systematic 
appeal to the voters to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of caste, rate, 
community or religion. In our judgment, the term “community” cannot in the 
context be confined to a religious community only. 

If we were to construe the appeal in the Maratha of 11th March 1957 as an 
appeal to the “marathas’ as a caste, then undoubtedly it would fall within the 
mischief of this section. But it cannot be so interpreted. The Maratha itself is 
a newspaper which is obviously intended to be read by the Marathi speaking and 
Marathi knowing persons, and Mr. Atre has admitted that the avcinge circulation 
of his daily paper in January, February and March 1957 was about 40,000 copies 

E cr day. The pictures published m that paper as well as in the posters issued 
y the Communist Party contain pictures of Gujrati victims of police Airings, 
who appear to be described as being residents of Ahmedabari. The pictures of 
other victims also are not confined to persons he, longing to the Maratha caste or 
community. Exhibit P-27, the poster issued by the Communist Party appealed 
for the unification of Maharnshtia and Maliagujarat II is nol disputed that 
candidates standing on the Samukta Maharashtra Samiti ticket were drawn from 
all communities speaking Marathi and non-Marathi languages. In lliest, circum- 
stances, we tue nol prepared to hold that either these appeals were intended to 
be addressed lo tile caslo and community of Marathas or intended to in an appeal 
to the Marathi speaking cleclois to vote on the ground of their being a separate 
community. It is possible lo cons true those appeals as calling on the voters to 
vote in favoui of the, political principle, of formation of sep irate States of 
Maharashtra and Mahagujaiat b\ voting in favour of candidates pledged to that 
principle though undoubtedly they were intended to make an intensely emotional 
appeal to the voters. We agree, therefore, with the finding of the Election 
Tribunal that these publications cannot fall within the mischief of sub-scction 
(3) of section 123 of the Act, 

Besides, it has lo be remembered that Exhibit P-26 as well as thc< poster 
Exhibit P-27 were issued on the election day, that is to say, on 11th March 1957, 
and we agree with the view of the Election Tribunal that these two publications 
on the election day would not amount to a systematic appeal contemplated under 
section 123(3) of the Act We ale not prepared lo accede to Mr Dhabe’s argu- 
ment that because of the publication ol the pictures both in Exhibit P-26 and 
Exhibit P-27 on the election day, we should hold that there was a systematic 
appeal to the voters to vote on the ground of community. The expression 
‘systematic’ would involve an element of planning, of method, of some continuity 
or persistence and admittedly Exhibits P-26 and P-27 or P-53 were published on 
the day of the election only. The argument, therefore, that the publication of 
these Exhibits constituted either undue influence or a systematic appeal to the 
voters to vote on the giound of community must, consequently, fail. 

That takes me to the next argument of Mr. Dhabe that the present election 
has been vitiated by a corrupt practice falling within section 123(1) of the Act, 
and Mr. Dhabe says that Mr. Awati, the candidate who stood on the Ram Rajya 
Parishad ticket, was induced to retire from the contest by reason of a reward 
offered to him by publication of his photograph 111 the Maratha dated 12 th 
March 1957. That issue of the Maralha is Exhibit P-30. It may be mentioned 
that in the trial Court it was also alleged by the petitioner that Mr. Awati was 
offered a bribe of Rs. 1.U00 by one Vinavak Bhave or somebody else en behalf 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/FHALGUNA 16. 1880 583 


of the Samyukta Maharashtia Samite Mr. Awati denied that allegation and 
stated that the statement that he got Rs. 1,800 from Vmayak Bhave or anybody 
else was false. He characterised it as a creation of the petitioner’s brain. He 
further stated that he had told the Ram Rajya Parisliad that he could not afford 
to incur the expenses oi election and as the Parishad was not giving him the 
necessary aid he would retne; and that was the sole reason of his retiring from 
the contest. The Tribunal, thcretore, rejected the allegation of the petitioner 
that there was corrupt practice on the pail of the successful candidates m 
inducing Mr. Awati to retire trom the contest by giving him Rs. 1,800. Mr. 
Dhabe has very properly not pursued that allegation in this Court. But he 
contends that the publication of Mr. Awati’s photograph on the day after the 
election giving him a prominent place and showing that he had supported the 
Samiti candidate, amounted to gratification as defined in the Explanation to 
section 123(1). Below the photograph appearing in the Maratha it was stated 
that Mr. Awati who had withdrawn his candidatme was the first to give his 
vote to the Samiti candidate, and Mr. Awati vas to bo seen in the photograph 
at the polling station at Rhivaji Mandir at Dadar. Mr. Awati in his evidence 
stated that the representatives of the "Maratha’’ had not come to him to take 
his photograph and nobody had asked him to attend to give the first vote at 
the election. He went of his own accord to the Shivajj Mandix Polling booth. 
He himself, his wife and daughter-in-law went to give their votes, but he did 
not pose for his photo for any photographer. He did not disclose to anybody 
for whom he was voting or for whom he voted because it was a secret poll. 
Then he explained that there was only one woman voter, who was ahead 
of him to go inside for voting, and as the number of that voter could not be 
traced, he was given the ballot paper first Mt. Atru in his evidence also stated 
that he did not know for whom Mi. Awati voted, that he was not present when 
he voted and that the photographer of the ’Maratha’ took this photo a_s those 

were his standing orders. He explained that it was stated In Exhibit P-30 

that Shri and Smt. Awati voted for the Samiti candidate because his correspon- 
dent told him that thev had in their hands Samiti cards. We do not think that 

the publication of this photograph amounts to any reward or gratification to 
Mr. Avati at all, The explanation to sub-section (T) of section 123 of the 

Act refers to “all forms of entertainment and all forms of employment for 

reward”. It is really difficult to appreciate the argument that the publication 
of Mr. Awati’s photo' on the next day after the election would amount to 

a corrupt practice within the meaning of Ihe Explanation in section 123(1) of 

the Act, 1 

That brings to the last point urged on behalf of the petitioner. Mr. Dhabe 
contends that the petitioner was a candidate at the election and having announc- 
ed his candidature and being nominated as a candidate at the election he had 

a right to canvass votes in his constituency and to ear’-y on a political campaign 

m favour of his candidature without being hampered in any manner by the 
supporters of the other candidates and it is the contention of the petitioner that 
all This canvassers as well as the canvassers of candidates who collaborated with, 
him, vi?., Dr. Desai and Dr. Birje, vveie hampered in the, work of canvassing 

votes. Section 79(d’) of the Act defines an electoral right as “the right of a 

person to stand or not to stand as, or withdraw from being, a candidate, or to 
vote or refrain from voting at an election’’ Now there is no dispute that the 
petitioner had exercised his electoral right of standing as a candidate. But 
the right claimed by him to canvass or to carry on propaganda in support of 
his candidature cannot be said to be an electoral right, though it would un- 
doubtedly be a right incidental to his electoral right to stand as a candidate, 
as defined in section 79(d) and Mr. Chari has not disputed this position. But 
the question is whether this incidental right has been in any manner infringed 
either by the successful candidates or bv their agents On this point, there is 
the evidence of Dr. Desai and witness Vasalsalla Patil, to which our attention 
was drawn. Dr. Desai, who was a candidate for the State Legislative Assembly 
and who it appears was working with the petitioner, has stated that when he 
had begun to get more and more support from his constituency an attempt was 
made on behalf of the Samiti, especially by the Communist Party, to send a 
ladies’ deputation to him headed bv Mr. Dangc’s daughter asking him to with- 
draw his candidature in favour of the Communist candidate contesting from 
the Scwari Constituency He slated that he gave a hearing lo the deputation, 
explained his stand why he was contesting the election and made a counter- 
request to the deputation that they should ask the Communist candidate to 
withdraw in this favour since he was also for Samyukta Maharashtra as much as 
the Communist candidate Then he savs that however whenever he event to 
canvass support., people began to behave in a hostile manner towards him and 
even lady workers who were working on his behalf were badly treated and he 



584 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Fait II 


explained that by ‘bad treatment’ he meant that his volunteers were surrounded 
by people when they went to chawls. Then he further stated that a large 
crowd of about 500 persons headed by one Inamdar suiTOunded him and his 
canvassers and would not allow them to move at all and they snatched away 
all the handbills from their hands and tore them to pieces and trampled them 
under their feet. The crowd started blowing bugles, shouting and making all 
kinds of allegations against them. This was his experience, according to hla 
evidence, In other chawls and therefore he retired from the contest on the day 
that he was entitled to do. He admitted that along with his handbills, the 
handbills of Mr. Hendre were also given for distribution to his workers, but 
those handbills were distributed where there was no opposition and not dis- 
tributed where there was opposition. The evidence of witness Vatsala Patil 
is of a similar type. After considering the evidence of these two witnesses, 
as well as the other witnesses, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the 
right of the petitioner even assuming it to be a right, was not infringed in any 

serious manner. Mr. Dhabe has frankly admitted that the evidence led by the 

petitioner does not connect the disturbances caused in the petitioner’s canvass- 
ing with any of the returned candidates or with their election agents. If that 
be so, we do not think that we can hold that either there has been in fact any 
infringement of the incidental right, which the petitioner claims to canvass 
Bupport for his candidature or that it amounted to undue influence or inter- 
ference on the part of successful candidates with the exercise of that right. 

But Mr. Dhabe very strongly relied on Exhibit P-29, which is a photo pub- 
lished in the Maratha dated 6th February, 1957 of a board that was put up by 

the residents of B. D. D. Chaw] No 19. It referred to the 105 martyrs in the 

Samyukta Maharashtra movement, for whose deaths, according to it the Cong- 
ress was responsible, and it urged that the Congress volunteers should not visit 
the chawl in question. Now, while publishing this photograph, it is stated at 
the bottom of the picture that the voters should follow the example of the 
residents of the that particular chawl. There is no evidence on the record that 
this board was put up by anybody on behalf of Messrs. Dange and Manay and 
it would appear that it was put there by the voters themselves. But Mr. Dhabe 
contends that the appeal by the Maratha that the) voters should follow the 
example of the residents of the chawl constitutes an attempt at interference 
with the electoral free exercise of their right to votes. We are not prepared 
to accept this contention. The right to exercise their votes freely also assumes 
the right of the voters not to cast their votes in favour of particular candi- 
dates. There is no evidence to show that this or similar boards were put 
up by or with the consent of the candidates concerned. If the voter choose 
to put up such boards, we are not prepared to hold that there was corrupt 
practice or undue influence interfering with the free exercise of the right 
of voting, for which the successful candidates were responsible. In this con- 
nection, it is significant that none of the other respondents appeared in support 
of the election petition and the Congress candidates Messrs. Ambekar and 
Majrolkar, who polled 1,87,941 and 2,09,769 votes respectively, must have been 
the candidates, most affected by the putting up of boards of the type shown 
in Exhibit P-29. | 

These are the only objections which were raised before us by Mr. Dhabe on 
behalf of the petitioner challenging the correctness of the decision of the 
Election Tribunal and all of them fail. The result is that this appeal will have 
to be dismissed. As regards cos+x it is true that we have accepted Mr, Dhabe’s 
contention as regards one letter (Exhibit P-1) published in the Maratha of 14tb 
February, 1957, a portion of which vm have held amounts to corrupt practice 
under section 123(4) of the Representation of the People Act,, 1951, by an agent 
of the candidate Mr. P. K, Atre, editor of the Maratha. But we have also held 1 
that that statement could not be snirl in have been made with the consent either- 
of the successful candidate or of their election agents. On all other points 
Mr. Dhabe has failed. In the circumstance of this case, however, wn do not 
think that the respondents will be entitled to different sets of costs. We direct 
the petitioner to pay one set of costs to the contending respondents, which we 
qualify at Rs. 260. 

Per Patel , J,: — 

I agree that the appeal must fall and must be dismissed. I may, however, 
add a few words on the important ouestion regarding agency in election matters 
and construction of section 100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
as amended from time to time. 

2, The argument was directed +0 corruot nractices as defined under section 
123 of the Representation of the People Act 1951. The argument n° Mr, Dhabe 
Is that Mr. P. K. Atre, who js the proprietor and Editor of a daily known as 



Sm, 8 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1939/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


58 5 


Maratha, had published several articles in his paper which came within the ambit 
of section 123, sub-section (4) of the Act, He argued that Mr. P. K. Atre, was 
the agent of the successful candidates and if so, if any corrupt practices were 
resorted to by this agent then under section 100 the election of the successful 
candidates could be avoided. My learned brother has very fully dealt with 
all those passages and has come to the conclusion that none of the passages can 
be brought within the ambit of section 123(4) except the letter which was 
published in the Maratha under the pen name of Sudhir Chavan. I entirely 
agree with the reasons given by my learned brother for so holding and I need 
not traverse those reasons over again. 

3. So far as the question of agency is concerned, it must be mentioned that 

the word has not been defined anywhere in the Act, though it has been freely 
used in section 123, section 100 at one place and section 98 as well. For the 
purpose of section 123, explanation No. 1 is appended to that section which 
says, “In this section the expression “agent" includes an election agent, a poll- 
ing agent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent in connection 
with the election with the consent of the candidate”. This is an inclusive 
definition and not an exhaustive one and the question whether or not Mr. Atre 
was the agent of the returned candidates must therefore be determined with 
reference to the use of the word “agent” as understood in the law of elections 
all these days. I I I 

4. I may refer to a passage from the judgment of Mr. Justice Willes in the case 
Blackburn (1869) I O. ’M.&H. p. 202, which is as follows: — 

"Nothing can be clearer than this law; it has existed for a very considerable 
period; I believe certainly from as early as the time when James I 
came to the throne. Some 265 years ago, the general principle was 
laid down upon the first and only occasion upon which the jurisdiction 
of the. House of Commons over parliamentary elections was seriously 
questioned, and upon which occasion it was confirmed (Goodwin's 
case 2, St. Tr. 1), and it is enacted and settled as the law by the 
corrupt practice Prevention Act, 1854, section 36 which, to my mind, 
■docs no more than lay down in very distinct terms that which has 
always been the understood law of Parliament, or rather the common 
law of the land, with respect to the election of members of Parlia- 
ment: that is to say, that no matter how well the member have con- 
ducted himself in the election, no matter how clear his character 
may be from any imputation of corrupt oractice in the matter, yet, 
if an authorised agent of his, a person who has been set in motion 
by him to conduct the election or convass voters on his behalf, is in 
the course of his agency guilty of corrupt practices, an election 
obtained under such circumstances cannot he maintained. As it has 
been exoressed from early time, no person can win and wear a prize 
upon whose behalf the contest has not been legitimately and fairly 
carried on or, os it was expressed in Goodwin’s case (2, St. Tr. 91) 
“non coronabitur qui non legitime certaverit”, which is only sp much 
in Latin showing the antiquity of the principle I have already 
expressed in English; and whether it be the person who contends in 
respect of any unfair plav of his own, whether it he the owner of a 
horse in respect of the foul riding of his jockey, whether it be the 
owner of a yacht in respect of the fault of his steersman, or the 
hoisting of an additional sail against the rules of the race by one of 
the seamen, or whether it he a candidate in a parliamentary contest 
in resnect of his agent; in every one of these cases, whether it. has 
been the nrincipal who has been guilty of Illegality, or whether the 
illegality has been committed by his agent only, even without his 
authority or against his will, provided it he done in his agency, and 
for the suoposed benefit of his principal, such principal must hear the 
burnt, and cannot hold the benefit in respect of that in which thei 
agent has compromised him. and would in a matter of this description 
have also betrayed the public, who have a right that a just election 
shall be had,”. 

Without multiplying reference to casei law it mav he stated that Tribunals in 
England have followed the principle of what is stated above without attempting 
to lav down a definite and precise definition of the word “Agency” in election 
matters/for the nossible reason "that i n some other case that particular definition 
might be evaded”, although what rame to substantially the same thing, might have 
taken place (Grove J. in the Wakefield Case Election Petitions Vol, 2 O’Malley 
and Hardcastle p. 102). 



586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MARCH 7, 1959/PI JAI.GUNA 16. 1880 


[Part II 


5. Our owe Act has not given a precise definition of the word ‘agent and has 
left it. to the Tribunal deciding an election case to determine in what relation a 
particular person canvassing for the votes for the candidate stands to him and 
from that to determine whether or not he was the agent, of that candidate. 


6. On this question then the evidence that falls to be considered is primarily 
that of Mr. Dange and Mr. P. K. Atre. It -is not necessary to refer to any other 
evidence to come to a conclusion as to whether or not Mr. P. K. Atre was the 
agent of the Samiti candidates. My learned brother has considered the evidence 
in detail and it is not necessary for me again to traverse the whole ground. I 
agree with him that the evidence does point to one and one conclusion that 
Mr. Atre was the agent of Lhe returned candidates for the purpose of election. 

7. The Tribunal below has held that Mr. Atre was the Agent ol' the returned 
candidates for the purposes of meeting and not for what he was writing in his 
paper “Maratha”. Mr. Atre in his evidence has stated that propaganda was 
carried on in this daily Maratha on behalT of the Samiti Candidates. He was 
carrying on propaganda in favour of Shri Dange and Manay also. He has also 
frankly referred to the fact that Shri Dange was the chairman of the Election 
Samiti and that he was and is a member of the Election Samiti. We may assume 
that when a special election committee is formed the purpose of that committee 
when they meet is not to talk weather. If an election committee is constituted 
it must consider the ways and means of carrying on the election propaganda 
and if it authorised its members to carry on propaganda that it is impossible to 
escape the conclusion that all the propaganda that was carried on by a particular 
member either in his own proprietary paper or in any other paper must be as 
agent of the candidate put up by the election committee. I agree with my learned 
brother therefore that Mr. P. K. Atre must be held to be the agent of the returned 
candidates for the purpose, of the election propaganda whether it was carried on 
by addressing meetings or by articles published in his own paper or in any other 
paper. 


8. The question then is whether the action of Mr. P. K. Atre in so far as the 
publication of the letter by even a correspondent which came within the ambit of 
section 123(4) could be brought within section 100 for declaring the result, of the 
election void. If we turn to section 123 which defines corrupt practices, in every 
component part of the section we find the use oE the word "by a candidate or his 
agent or by any other person” and those words appear not in sub-section (I) but 
hi every other sub-sccLion of that section. Coming however to section 100 it is 
a somewhat different matter. So far as relevant for the immediate purpose it is 
as follows: — 


“100(1) Subject to the provisions of Sub-section (2) if lhe Tribunal is of 
opinion— 

(b) lhat any corrupt practice has been committed 

"by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person 
with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent.;" 

(c) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned 

candidate, has been materially affected. 

(ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the contest of the returned 
candidate by a person other than that candidate or his election 
agent or a person acting with the consent of such candidate or 
election agent”. 


“(2) If in the opinion of the Tribunal, a returned candidate has been 
guilty by an agent, other than his election agent, of any corrupt prac- 
tice but the Tribunal is satisfied — 

(a) that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by the 

candidate or his election agent, and every such corrupt practice 
was rommit.teed contrary to the orders and without the consent, 
of the candidate or his election agent; 

(b) that all such corrupt practices were of a trivial and limited character 

or took the form of customary hospitality which did not affect the 
result of the election; 



*ff, J (ii)] 


iiifc. GA/.F t i \i ofr India : MAkLn 1 , I ori ty i*H A t .G If Sf A 16, iadl) 


5*7 


<e) Thai tho candidate and his i It-clioii agent took all ceasunubta means 
lor pn-venling tho Comm is ion of coitupt pimliees .u lln* flection; 
and 

Id) that itt all other respects oi the election vvas free from any corrupt 
practice on the pari of the candidate or any of his agents, 

then the Tribunal niav decide that the election of the returned candidate 
is not void”. 


9 Clause (1J (b) is intended to be directed to any corrupt practice commit- 
ted by the candidates or election agent who has been defined m the Act what- 
ever be the nature of the corrupt practice. However it' the corrupt practice is 
by some one other than those two then consent must be proved. Sub-clause til) 
cannot be a proviso to this clause for the obvious reason that though an agent 
may fall within the words “any person other than a candidate or his election 
agent” as found in sub-clause (ii to come within the proviso it must be estab- 
lished that the corrupt practice wa^ omitted “without consent", a contradication 
in terms. Moreover, on fundamental principles acts of agents cannot have been 
intended to be treated so leniently, for it would be in a rare case that consent 
of the candidate could be established. It would appear that sub-clause (2j is 
meant to be a proviso to some provision which would enable the tribunal to 
declare the election of a returned candidate void on the ground of a corrupt 
practice by an agent. But such a provision is absent from this section It 
Mr. Atre’s action lulls within -mb-sectum (1) even though he is an agent then 
for the reason stated bv my learned brother and with which I agree, consent of 
the returned candidate: or their election agent not having been established the 
election cannot be held to be void. 

10 Is it then possible to bring this part.oular action of Mr. Atre within any 
other provision of the section. The onl> one under which ii could possibly be 
brought is sub-section (1) <d) .of section 100. This provision in relation to the 
words “or a person acting with the consent of such candidate or i lection agent” 
is capable of being read m two ways, (1) by any corrupt practice committed m 
the interest of the returned candidate bv a person other than a person acting 
with the consent of such candidate or election agent and (2) by any eoi'rupt 
practice committed by a person acting with the consent of such candidate or 
election agent. It seems thi- sub-clause id) is directed to something or the other 
done or omitted to be done by some one other than a candidate or his agent. II 
is therefore that ‘‘result of the election is materially affeclcd” required before 
the election could be set aside. This is obvious for in election it is common 
experience of some person “volunteers” who without even tho knowledge of the 
candidate or his agent take so much interest in the election of a particular party 
or person and act in furthering his election. The provision is meant for canvas- 
sers like them. As an illustration in the very case it has appeared that in a 
chawal some persons put up a board find at other places some person refused to 
allow the canvassers to even cntei the chawl. I would therefore read the provi- 
sion in the first meaning suggested bv me. If it Is read in this sense then 
Mr. Atre’s conduct will not be covered by it since he is not some one “other 
than a person acting with the consent of such candidate or election agent”. 

11. Is it possible to assign the second meaning to the section? For that purpose 
reference must be made to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 100 which 
I have stated before. It must be remembered that this pari must be read as a 
qualification to sub-section (1) which undoubtedly it is, us it gives jurisdiction 
to the Tribunal to decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void 
if It is satisfied about certain matters in relation to the corrupt practices of an 
agent of a candidate. The result of applying it to sub-clause (d) would be that 
if the corrupt practice is committed by some one falling within the words 
“person acting with the consent of the candidate” but is not “an agent”, then the 
election must be set aside if it materially affected the result of the election. But 
if the corrupt practice js by an agent a person who is more than a person acting 
with the consent of the candidate or his election agent... then the further facts 
if established would enable the election Tribunal to decide- that the election of 
the returned candidate is not void, a result obviously not intended. The provi- 
sions of this aub-scction are wholly unsuited for being applied as a proviso to 
this method of reading that sub-clause It is therefore impossible to read the 
section in its second meaning. Further this conclusion is strengthened by the 
very wording of that sub-section (2) which refers specifically to a corrupt 
practice by an Hgent for which apparently there is no provision in the earlier 
sub-section. 



5 88 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : MAltcH 7, 1959/PHAtGUNA 16, 1880 [P^rt 11 


12. The discussion above Would show that it is a case of omission, an unfor- 
tunate result which should not be lightly created. It is no doubt possible to get 
over this difficulty and to bring out th e real intention of the Act by reading the 
Word “his agent” instead of the words "his election agent” in clause (ii) of 
Section 100(1) and that is no doubt open to a Court construing a statute (see 
Maxwell, 10th Edn. Page 229). 

“This may be done by departing from the rules of grammar, by giving an 
unusual meaning to particular words, by altering their collocation 
or by rejecting them altogether, under the influence, no doubt of an 
irresistible conviction that the legislature could not possibly have 
intended what its words signify and that the modifications thus made 
are mere corrections of careless language and really give the true 
meuning. Where the main object and intention of a statute are 
clear, it must not be reduced to a nullity by the draftsman’s unskil- 
fulness or ignorance of the law, except in a case of necessity, or the 
absolute intractability of the language used”. 

I would have been tempted to do it in the case under discussion but for the fact 

that in the Bill as presented in the House the words were “his agent” while in 

the Act as passed the words are “his election agent”. It would therefore appear 
that what was done was done with some purpose which has however left a gap 
in the Legislation. It is not for the Court to remedy that gap. There is there- 
fore apparently no provision under section 100 under which the action of 
Mr. P. K. Aire can be brought as an agent of the returned candidate. Assuming 
that the second meaning can be assigned to the provision that is not proved that 
the result of the election has materially aifeeted the election therefore cannot be 
declaied void. 


13. As to the other grounds urged by Mr. Dhabe, my learned brother has 
dealt with them in great detail and I agree with his conclusions and have 
nothing further to add. I therefore agree with the final order that i s proposed 
by my learned brother. 

By the order of the Court, 


The 4 th December, 1958. 


N. M. Shanbhag, 
Deputy Registrar. 


[No. 82/437/57/78.] 
By Order, 

DIN DAYAL, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26th February 1959 I 

S.O. 492. — In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso (a) to sub-rule (2) 
of rule 5 of the Representation of the People (Conduct of Elections and Election 
Petitions) Rules, 1956 the Election Commission hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in its notification No. 56/1/58(2) dated the 
12th May, 1958 as amended by its Notifications Nos. 56/1/58 dated the 14th July, 
1958 and 56/1/58, dated the 2nd February, 1959: — 

Amendment 1 

In paragraph III of the said notification the words “'Andhra Pradesh and” 
shali be omitted. 


[No. 56/1/58.] 
By Order, 

S. C. ROY, Secy. 



Sec. 3 (11)] TI1K GA/FT IF OF 1N1HA : MARCH 7, 1959/PH M,GCNA 16. 1RB0 589 

MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs) 

New Delhi-2, February 2(1, 1959 

S.O. 493. — In exercise oC the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby directs that all contracts made in the 
exercise of the executive power of the Union for the grant of interest-free 
advances to the salt manufacturers in Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of repairs 
to or renovation of the factories damaged by the heavy rains of October, 1958, 
shall be executed on his behalf, by the Deputy gait Commissioner, Madras. 

[No. F.17(2)/59-J.] 
P. K BOSE, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 21th February 1959 

S.O. 494. — in pursuance of rule 11 of the Indian Administrative, Service (Pay) 
Rules, 1954, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments 
in Schedule III appended to the said Rules, namely:— 


In the said Schedule, under the heading “C-Posts carrying pay above the 
time-scale or special pay in addition to pay in the time-scale* under the Central 
Government when held by members of the Service”, against “Home Affairs” in 
the first column: — 

0) for the entries "Chief Secretary to Government, Delhi State” in the second 
column relating to ‘Particulars of posts’, "senior scale” in the . third 
column relating to ‘Pay/Scale of pay’ and "300” m the fourth column relating to 
‘Special pay’, the following entries shall respectively be substituted, namely: — 

"Chief Secretary, Delhi Administration 1800-100-2000 11 

(2) after the entires relating to Chief Secretary, Delhi Administration, afore- 
said, the following entries shall respectively be inserted in the second, third and 
fourth columns, namely: — 

“Development Commissioner, Delhi Administration .... Senior scale. .. .300”. 

Amendment ( 1 ) hereby made ’ shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
23rd September, 1958 and amendment (2) on the 1st December, 1958. 

[No. l/288/58-AIS(lI).] 
S. NARAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy.-' 
New Delhi-11, the 26th February 1959 

S.O, 495. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (11 of 1878), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely: — 

In Schedule VIII to the said Rules, in Form XI, after condition 9, the 
following condition shall be inserted, namely: — 

“9-A, He shall not sell to anyone any arms manufactured by him unless 
such arms are duly proof-tested, at a Government establishment 
or an establihment approved in this behalf by the Central Gov- 
ernment.” 


[No. F. 20/l/59-P(IV).] 



[Pam U 


1 HE GA/ET1E or INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALC.ITNA 16, 1880 


New Delhi, the 2nd March 1959 

S.O. 496. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-ru.le (3) of rule 44 of 
the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby remits the fee 
payable for the licence to be taken out in Form XVI by the Puj&ri of the Sikh 
Gurdwara at Nanded in Bombay State in respect of the following fire-arms held 


by the Gurdwara for worship purposes: — 

Description of the Number 

fire-arms 

1. SBML Pistol 34 

2. DBML Pistol 9 

3. ML Revolvers 4 

Total. 47 


[No. F.22/34/57-Police (IV),] 

C. P. S. MENON, 
Regulations Officer. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 24th February 1959 

S.O. 497.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309, 
and clause (5) of article 148,, of the Constitution, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to perspns serving 
In the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), namely: — 

In rule 12 of the said Rules, to sub-clause (iii) of clause (a), the following 
proviso and note shall be added, namely: 

“Provided that the condition of actual dependence shall not apply in the 
case of son or daughter of the subscriber. 

Noth.— Advances under sub-clause (iii) are also permissible for meeting 
expenditure in connection with marriage and other ceremonies of 
the subscriber himself/herself.” 


[No. F. 28(31)-EV/58.] 

8,0. 498. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309, 
and clause (5) at article 148, of the Constitution, the President, after consulta- 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India in relation to persons 
eerving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendments in the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 
namely: — 

In rule 15 of the said Rules, to sub-clause (iii) of clause (a) of sub-rule (1), 
the following proviso and note shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that thei condition of actual dependence shall nol apply in the 
case of son or daughter of the subscriber. 

N6te. — A dvances under sub-clause (iii) are also permissible for meeting 
expenditure in connection with marriage and other ceremonies of 
the Subscriber himself/herself,” 


[No. F. 28(31)-EV/58.] 
D. D. BHATIA Dy. Secy 



•Sic. i (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1939/PHALGUNA id. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 2,7th February 1959 ■ 

S.O. 499. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section, (1) 
of section 4 read with sub-section ( 1 j of section 6 of the Rehabilitation. Finance 
Administration Act, 1948 (12 of 1948), and in partial modification of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Economic Affairs) No. F. 7(57)-Corp./58, dated the 1st October, 1958, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri A. Baksi, Joint Secretary to the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs), as a mem- 
ber of the Rehabilitation Finance Administration, vice Shri M. S. Bhatnagar. 

[No. F. 7(83)-Corp./58.] 
M. K. VENKATACHALaM, Dy. Secy. 



(Department of Economic Affaire) 

New Delhi, the 2 6th February 1959 

5.0.50*. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 20th February 1959. 

Banking Department 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Capital paid up ..... 

5,00,00,000 

Notes . ...... 

20,01,19,000 

Reserve Fimd . . ' . 

80,00,00,000 

Rupee Coin 

2,19,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Lung- terra Ope- 


Subsidiary Coin ..... 

3,74,000 

rations) Fund ..... 

25,00,00,000 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 


Fund ...... 

3,00,00,000 

(a) Internal ...... 


Deposits . — 


(6) Eidemal 

. . 

(a) Government 


(c) Government Treasury Bills 

5 > 93 , 55 ,coo 

(1) Central Government . 

6144*49,000 

Balances held abroad* .... 

3346,524500 

(2) Other Governments . 

19,31,30,000 

••Loans and Advances to Governments . 

21,90,17,000 

(6) Banks . 

7142,15,000 

Other Loans and Advances 

* 4 , 37 , 68,000 

(e) Others ...... 

114,77,38,000 

Investments .... ... 

260,04,37,000 

Bills Payable 

19,8646,000 

Other Assets ...... 

1 1,65 ,02 /XX) 

Other Liabilities ..... 

37,62,65,00c 



Total . 

437 , 4443,000 

Total . 

437 44 , 43,000 


•Includes Cash it Short term Securities. 

••Includes Temporary Overdraft* to State Governments. 

The item ‘Other Loans and Advances’ includes Rs, 5,61,81,000 advanced to scheduled hanks against usance bills under Section 17(4) (<:) of the 

ReserreJ,Bank of India Act. 

Dated the 25th day oLPehruary, 195$. 


•592 THI GAZETTE Of INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959 /PHArOUNA 16, 1880 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 20th day of February, 1959 

Issue DEPArmarr 


Liabilities 

Ra. 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking De- 
partment 

Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued 

20.01 ,19,00c 

1659*49301,00° 

1679,50,20,000 

A. Gold Coin and Bullion : — 

(a) Held in India . 

(b) Held outside India . 

Foreign Securities . . 

117,76^3,000 

( 178,00,89,000 





Total of A- . * 


295,76,92,eoo 




B. Rupee Coin .... 


13248,39,000 




Government of India Rupee Securi- 
ties 


125 1 44, 89, coo 




Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper . . . 



Total— Liability 


1679,50,20,000 

Total— Assets 


1679,50,20,000 


Dated the 25th day of February, 1959. [No. F. 3(2>BC/59.J 

K. G. Ambegaoxab, Dy, Governor. 
A. BAKSI, Jt. Secy. 


LO 

\o 

U> 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7. 1959/PHAI.GUNA 16, 1880 



594 


THE GAZETTE OI INDIA : MARCH 7. [959/FHALCtINA 16, 1HS0 [Part II 


(Department of Revenue) 

Income Tax 

New Delhi, the 20 th February 1959 

S O. 501. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
46- A of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division), No. S.R.O. 961, 
dated the 25th May, 1953, namely.— 

In clause (2) of the said notification, after the words ‘Commonwealth 
Countries’ the words ‘or British Colonies and Protectorates’ shall 
be inserted. 

[No. 24(F.46(20) -I.T./58) ]. 

P. N. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

Neiu Delhi, the 27 th February 1959 

S.O. 502. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause, (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed to be executed by the Embassy 
of the United Arab Republic in India in respect of Plot No. 1 (measuring about four 
acres) in Block No. 50-M, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, is chargeable under the said Act. 

TNo. 6. F. No. 1/13/59-Stamps/Cus.VII.] 
D. N. LAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 28th February 1959 

S.O. 503. — In pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust, Act, 1879 (Bombay Act 15 of 1879), it is hereby notified that in accordance 
with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 13 of the. said Act, Shri Arvind N. 
Mafatlal has been elected by the Millowners’ Association, Bombay, as the Associa- 
tion’s representative on the Bombay Port Trust Board from the 9th February 
1059, vice Shxi Vithal N. Chandavarkar deceased. 


[No. 8-C-PG(14)/59.J 
Miss I. INDIRA, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Estate Duty 

New Delhi , the 2nd March 1959 , 

S.O. 504. — The following draft of further amendments to the Estate Duty Rules, 
1953 (SRO 558 of 1954), which the Cental Board of Revenue proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 85 of the Estate 
Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), is published as required by sub-section (1) of the 
said section 85, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 27th March, 1959, 



5ip. 8 fc 


2 Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
said Board. 


Draft Amendment 1 

In the said rules, for rules 3, 4, 5 and 0, the following rules shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“3. Where an Assistant Controller finds that the principal value of the 
estate in any case pending before him exceeds or is likely to exceed 
the pecuniary limits of his jurisdiction, he shall transfer the case to 
the Deputy Controller having jurisdiction over the estate. 

4 . (a) The. Deputy Controller to whom the case of an estate has been 

transferred under rule 3, may continue the proceeding so transferred 
from the stage at which it stood immediately before the transfer or 
recommence the proceeding: 

Provided that before recommencing any proceeding, the accountable, person 
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(b) The jurisdiction of the. Deputy Controller to whom the case of an estate 
has been transferred under rule 3 shall not be called in question 
merely on the ground that the principal value of the estate as deter- 
mined by the. Deputy Controller is less than the value specified for 
the purpose of hi^ jurisdiction. 

5. Notwithstanding that an Assistant Controller or a Deputy Controller is 

not exercising the functions of the Income-tax Officer or the Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioner, as the case may be, in respect of the assess- 
ment under the Income-tax Act of a deceased person, he shall exer- 
cise the functions of the Controller in respect of the estate of the 
deceased if the case relating to the estate is specifically assigned to 
him under the second proviso to sub-section (2) of section 4 of the 
Act. 

0. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 3 or in any other rule, 
the Board may at any stage of the proceeding relating to the case 
of any estate transfer it from one assessing authority to another and 
thereupon the provisions of rule 4 shall, so far as may be, apply. 

(2) Whenever, a Deputy Controller or an Assistant Controller ceases to 
exercise jurisdiction in respect of any proceeding under the Act and 
is succeeded by another who has or exercises such jurisdiction, the 
Deputy Controller or Assistant Controller so succeeding may continue 
the proceeding from the stage at which it was left by his predecessor; 

Provided that the accountable person may, when the succeeding Controller 
commences to exercise jurisdiction, demand that the previous pro- 
ceeding or any part thereof taken before bis predecessor be recom- 
mended or that before any order imposing tne duty is passed, he 
be re-heprd.” 


Explanatory Note 

(This note is not a part of the amendments but is intended to explain the 
purpose thereof, ) 

At present an Assistant Controller who is in Class II Service can deal with 
estates whose value does not exceed rupees five lakhs and an Assistant Controller 
who is in Class I Service can deal with estates whose value does not exceed 
rupees ten lakhs. Estates of the value of over ten lakhs are dealt with by Deputy 
Controllers. With a view to avoid frequent transfers of cases from one officer to 
another, it has been decided to remove the distinction in the matter of jurisdiction 
between Assistant Controllers in Class II Service and Assistant Controllers in 
Class I Service and give all Assistant Controllers jurisdiction over estates whose 
value does not exceed rupees ten lakhs. 


[No. 8/F. No. 12/1/59-E.D.] 

D. SUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 



- 1 : Mjl 7, / 1 AL NA 16,’ 880 (Fart II 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Merchandise Marks 
New Delhi J the 26th February 1959 

S.O, 505. — The following draft of a notification which the Central Govern- 
ment, being convinced that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, pro- 
poses to issue, in exercise of the Dowel’s conferred by sub-section (1) and sub- 
section (3) of section 117 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 
1958), and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in tho 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, No. S.R.O. 440 dated the 31st March, 1951 
and of the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Com- 
merce and Consumer Industries, No. S.R.O. 2290 dated the 6th October, 1956 is 
published as required by sub-scction (4) of the said section for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 9th April, 1959. Any 
objection which may be received from any person with respect to the said draft 
before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 


Draft Notification 

1. (a) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (5) of section 117, the classes 
of goods specified in column 2 of Part I and Part II of the Schedule 
hereto annexed shall on and after the 1st August, 1959, on importa- 
tion, (where the goods are imported) and at the time of sale whether 
by wholesale or retail or both (where the goods are made or pro- 
duced within the limits of India), have applied to them in the 
English language and in large and conspicuous letters an indication 
of the country or place in which they were made or produced or of 
the name and address of the manufacturer or the person for whom 
the goods were manufactured, in the manner specified in the cor- 
responding entry in column 3 of the said Schedule. 

(b) Where such goods are made or produced in one country and contain- 

ed in packages made or produced in another, the indication shall 
specify such countries. I 

(c) Where such goods which, are imported are partly or wholly made or 

produced in one country and partly made or produced or finished 
or processed or embellished or completed in another country or 
other countries, or where the imported goods are made of indis- 
tinguishable parts or constituents made in two or more different 
countries, the indication as to origin shall be “Manufacture of differ- 
ent countries outside India" or ‘Produce of different countries out- 
side India". I 

(d) Where such goods are produced in a foreign country but “packed" or 

otherwise processed in India, both the country of origin and the 
words “packed In India" or “processed in India", as the case may 
be, shall be indicated. 

(c) Where such goods are assembled in India with foreign and indigenous 

parts, the indication of the country of origin to be applied to the 

goods shall be “assembled in India". 

(f) Where such goods are made in India with foreign and indigenous 

materials, the indication shall contain the words “Made in India 

with foreign and indigenous materials". 

(g) In tlie case of such goods which are imported into India, if the name 

of the place in which they were made or produced is identical with, 
or deceptively similar to, the name of a place in India or if the 
name is the name of a place in more than one country,, such name 
shall be accompanied in equally large and conspicuous letters and in 
the English language by the name of the country in which the place 
is situate. 


2 Where due to the smallness of the size of the goods or otherwise it is 
impracticable to mark on the goods themselves the country or place of origin 
or the name and address of the manufacturer or the person for whom the goods 



Sec. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1 939/P HALGUNA 16, 18*0 


were manufactured, or where it is not possible to do so without adversely affect- 
ing the quality of the goods, or without undue expenditure, the indication may 
be applied on the package of such goods. 

3. In this notification, “applied" includes attached, enclosed, annexed, insert- 
ed, secured, fastened, stitched, sewn or woven. 

SCHEDULE 
Part I 

Goods made or produced beyond the limits of India and imported into India for 
trade purposes other than for re-export. 


Item No, Class of goods Manner in which the indicaiion 

, shall be applied 


Ul 


{i) 


( 3 ) 


1. Apparatuses and appliances electric and all On the goods themselves, 
kinds assembled. 

2 . Chemicals, drugs medicines and pharma- On the packages, 

ccutical products of all kinds. 

3. Cigarettes. Do. 

4. Electrical wiring accessories . . . On the packages or otherwise. 

5. Electric cells and batteries of all kinds On the goods themselves, 
including primary batteries for dry cells, 

flash lamps, torch type, motor car batteries, 
and also plates for motor vehicle batteries, 

43 . Fountain pen barrels . . On the goods themselves. 

7, Fcnts ....... On the bundles or packages. 

S. Glass bulbs and globes including elcclric On the goods themselves, 
incandescent bulbs. 

9. Iron mgols ..... On the goods themselves. 

10. Lanterns and lamps uf all kinds including Do. 

electric lurches and flashlights and automo- 
bile lamps. 

11. Machinery of all kinds assembled . . Do. 

12. Manufactures of wood .... Do, 

L3. Parts, spare parts and accessories of appara- On the packages or otherwise, 
tuses and appliances, electric and all 
kinds. 

14. Parts, spare parts and accessories of ma- On the packages or otherwise, 
chincry of all kinds. 

t <. Piecegoods of cotton, silk, anificia] silk, On the goods themselves, 
staple hbre yarn and wool including mixture 
piecegoods, i.e., piecegoods made out of 
different kind# of yarns, or piecegoods 
made out of yarns spun out of mixture 
of different kinds of textile fibre. 

16. Spirits, Wines and liquors . . On the capsules and where there are 

no capsules on the corks as well 
a»' on the labels of the bottles or 
packages. 

17. Stationery goods, all kinds . On the packages or otherwise. 

15. Tiles of all kinds .... On the goods themselves. 

19. Toilet preparations of all kinds, including On die packages, 

soaps. 

20. Wood and timber in logs, . On the goods themselves. 



598 tJA , A* 7, /riTAi,Glji\A , .. II 


(i) ( 2 ) (3) 


21. Wood and timber in pieces, planks or 

scantlings, 

22. Yarns of cotton, silk, artificial silk, staple 
fibres and wool including yarn spun out 
of mixture with one or more kinds of textile 
fibres, as well as yarns consisting of strands 
of different kinds of yarn combined by the 
process of doubling or twisting, 

23. All other imported goods which bear or pur- 
port to bear any name, word or other mark 
or trade description or which contains any 
indication suggesting or implying that the 
goods are made or produced in India, 
subject to Motes I and II below. 


On the bundles or otherwise* 
On the bundles. 


On the goods themselves or on the 
packages (See Note II below) 


Note I. — An indication of the country or place of origin is not necessary in 
the case of packages made m a foreign country and bearing the name of an 
Indian manufacturer, dealer or trader who had ordered the packages for packing 
his own goods for sale and not for the purpose of trading in such packages 

Note II. — The indication of a country or place of origin shall be shown in 
letters as large and conspicuous as any letter in the name, or word or trade 
description applied to the goods and shall accompany every application of the 
name, word or trade description. The indication of the country or place of 
origin shall be on the same package or goods, as the case may be* to which the 
name or word or trade description is applied and shall be immediately before or 
after such name, word or trade description. The indication shall not be on a 
separate label nor otherwise detachable from the package or the goods, as the 
case may be, to which the name, word or trade description has been applied and 
shall be applied no less indelible than the latter. The indication shall be repeat- 
ed for all the applications of the name, word or trade description except when the 
latter are reproduced in such close proximity that one prominent indication will 
suffice to cover all. 


Part II 

Goods made or Produced within the limits of India 


Item No. Class of goods. 


Manner in which the indication 
shall be applied. 


(0 . 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


1. 


2. 


3* 


4* 

5 - 

6. 

7 * 

a. 


9- 


TO. 


II. 


Abrasives coated ..... On the goods themselves. 
Batteries of all kinds, primary and secondary. On the goods themselves, 
such as dry cells for flash lights, radios, 
etc. and stoarge batteries of the motor 

vehicle, train lighting and stationery types, 
and also plates for motor vehicle batteries. 


Belting 

Blowers (Industrial) 
Boilers 


Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


Bolts, nuts and rivets 
B.R.C* and other fabrics 


On the packages or otherwise. 
On the bundles or packages. 


Chemicals, drugs, medicines and pharma- On the packages, 
ecuttcal products of all kinds. 


Cigarettes On the packages. 

Cotton piecegoods excepting h^ndloom On the goods themselves, 
cloth. 


Cutlery articles, metallic 


Do. 




Sue, 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 10, 1880 


Cycles complete . . . . On the frames, forks and mudguards. 

Cycles, major component parts of, such On the goods themselves, 
as, Front Forks, Mudguards, handle bars, 
brakes, chain wheels and cranks PcdalB, 

Freewheels, Hubs, Rims, Lamp brakets, 
chain adjusters. Reflectors, Hub Axle, 

Centralaxle. 

Cycles, small component parts of, out covered On the packages, 
by item 13. 


Duplicators 

Electric brass lamps holder 
Electrical equipment 
Fountain Pen3 
Gate hooks and eyes. 
Gramophone needles 
Grinding Media 
Grinding stones. 

Grinding wheels 
Hurricane lanterns. 


On the goods themselves. 

On the lamp holders and cartons. 
On the goods themselves. 

On the goods themselves. 

On the packages. 

On the packages. 

On the packages . 

On the label pasted. 

On the goods themselves. 

On the goods themselves. 


Inks of all kinds including fountain pen On the bottles and paper 
ink. 


cartons. 


Oil pressure lamp mantles 
Oil pressure Lamps . 


On the packages. 

On the goods themselves. 


Parts, spare parts and accessories of all On the packages or otherwise, 
internal combustion engine. 

Parts, spare parts and accessories of ma- On the packages or otherwise, 
chinery of all kinds. 

Parts, spare parts and accessories of motor On the packages or otherwise, 
vehicles. • 


Pressure stoves . . 

Prophylactics (Rubbers) 
Pumps • . . 

Razor blades . 

Rubber manufactures 
Safety pins 
Sealfast seal 

Spirits, Wines and Liquors 


Split cotter pin and taper cotter pin 
Sports goods of all kinds 
Steel files. . 


Steel drums and barrels . . . Do. 

Tennis balls On the packages. 

Toilet preparations of all kinds including On the packages, 
soaps. 


On the goods themselves. 

On the packages. 

On the goods themselves. 

On the goods themselves. 

Do. 

On. the packages. 

On the goods themselves. 

On the Capsules and where there arc 
no Capsules on the corks as well as on. 
the labels of the bottles or packages. 

On the packages. 

On the goods themselves. 

On the goods themselves. 

Do. 

On the packages. 


Tools (garage equipment) 

Tooth brushes 

Trailers . . , , 

Welding Electrodes 
Woodaciews and machine screws 


. On the goods themselves. 

. On the goods themselves, 
j Do. 

. On the packages or otherwise. 
Do. 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: MARCH 7. 1 97 9 / P H A LG UNA Hi, 1880 [Part II 


U) (3) 


Yarn of cotton, silk:, artificial silk, staple On bundles, 
fibre and wool, including yarn spun out 
of mixture with one or more kinds of textile 
fibres, as well as yarn consisting of strandB 
of different kinds of yarn combined by the 
process of doubling or twisting. 

Zip Fastners . - . • .On the goods themselves. 


j LNo. 7CD-TMP/59.] 
New Delhi, the 27th February 1959 ; 

S.O. 506. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 57 
.and sub-section (1) of section 77 of the Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911 
(2 of 1911), the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ments in the Indian Patents and Designs Rules, 1933, the same having been previ- 
ously published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section 77, namely: — 

In the said rules,— » 

(1) in sub-rule (1) of rule 7, 

(t) after the words and figures "13 inches by 8 inches”, the words and 
figures “or 33 00 centimetres by 2050 centimetres” shall be inserted; 

(ii) after the words ‘‘one inch and a half”, the words “or four centimetres” 
shall be inserted; 

(2) for sub-rule (1) of rule. 16, the following sub-rule shall be substituted, 
mamely: — 

“Size of drawings and arrangement of figures. — (1) Drawings shall be on 
sheets which measure 13 inches or 33 00 centimetres from top to 
bottom and are either from 8 inches to 11) inches or 20 50 centimetres 
to 21 centimetres or from 16 inches to 16i inches or 4100 centimetres 
to 42 00 centimetres wide, the narrower sheets being preferable, A 
clear margin shall be left half an inch or one centimetre and a half 
from the edges of the sheets.’’; 

(3) in clause (h) of rule 17, after the words “one-eighth of an inch", the 
'words and figures “or 0 3 centimetre” shall be inserted; 

(4) in rule, 38,— 

CD in sub-rule (3), after the words and figures “13 by 8 inches”, the words 
and figures “or 33 00 centimetres by 20 50 centimetres” shall be 
inserted ; 

(ii) in sub-rule (7), after the figures and words “5 by 4 inches”, the words 
and figures "or 13 00 centimetres by 10 00 centimetres” shall be 
inserted; 

(5) in the First Schedule— 

(i) in column 4, for the words and letters “Ks. A. P.”, the, word and letters 

“Rs. nP." shall be substituted, 

(ii) in column 4 against entry 26, for the word and figure “As. 8”, the words 

and figures “50 nP,” shall be substituted; 

(iii) in column 2 below entry 34, for the figure and word “1 anna”, the 

figure and words “6 nP.” shall be substituted; 

(6) in the Second Schedule— 

(i) in the marginal note (c) of Form 3, after the figures and word “t ‘ 

inches”, the words and figure “or 4 centimetres” shall be inserted; 

(ii) in the marginal note (c) of Form 3A, after the figures and word “li 

inches”, the words and figure “or 4 centimetres" shall be inserted; 

(iii) in Note (2) under Form 9, after the figures and word “li inches” the 

words and figure "or 4 centimetres” shall be inserted; 

(iv) in the Note under Form 29, for the words “anna one”, the figure and 

words "6 nP.” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. 14(2)-TMP/58.] 
K. RAJARAMAN, Under Secy. 


fib oo 

CD 

50. 

5 1 - 



6or. 


Sso. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ■ MARCH 7, 1950/PH ALGUNA 16, 1880 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 567. — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry’s Order SRO 205/IDRA / 
6/13, dated the 4th March, 1958 published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, Sub-section (ii), dated the 8 tn March, 1958: — 

For “12. Shri C. J. Dadachanji, M/s. National Carbon Co. (India) Ltd., 
Kasturi Building, Jamshedji Tata Road, Bombay-1" 

Read “12. Shri C. J. Dadachanji, National Carbon Co. (India) Ltd., ‘Ilaco 
House’, 1 & 3 Brabourne Road, Calcutta-1”, 

[No. 4(10) I A ( II ) (G)/59.] 
A. K. CHAKRA VARTI, Under Secy. 

(Indian Standards Institution! 

N«v> Delhi, ihe 27 th February 1959 

a. O. 508 .— in pursuance of sub-regulation! [)of regulation 8 of the Indian S andards Institution : 1 
(Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards institution hereby notifies ihuL one 
licence, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed has been renewed. 

The Schedule 

SI. Licence Period of Validity Name and Address of Article covered Relevant Indian 

No- No, and - — the 1 .icensee by the licence Standard 

Date From To 

t CM-L -69 1 - 3-1959 29 - 2-1960 M/s. Jayshree Ply- Tea-Chest Ply- IS : 10-1953 Spe- 

7 - 2-1958 woods, (formerly w ood Panels cification for 

Union Plywood Plywood Tea- 

Ltd.) 20 Canal Chests (Revised) ' 

Hast Road, Calcutta. 

[No. MD 0 /I 2 (I 74 )-L .1 

LAL C. VHRMAN, 
Director. 

CORRIGENDUM 
Bombay, the 19th February 1959 

S.O. 509. — In the Ministry of Commerce & Industry’s Notification No S.O. 2076, 
dated 27th August 1958, published at pages 1874 to 1881 Qf the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated the 11th October, 1968. 

In Schedule ‘A’ appended to the said notification: — 

Under the column 13 against Vijay, for "60” read ‘‘50". 

D. S. Josw, 
Textile Commissioner. 

1 

[No. F.24(44)TEX(A)/57.1 
V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 

ERRATUM 

In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Notification No. 21(11) Plant (B)/57, 
dated 3rd October, 1958 (Conduct Rules for Rubber Board Employees) publish- 
1 ed in the Gazette of India Part II-— Section 3(ii), dated 11th October, 1958 as 

S.O. 2083, the following correction is to be made: — 

Page 1884, Rule 2(d) (if), 2nd line — 

for "Board’s employee or to such Board’s wife ” 

read "Board’s employee or to such Board’s employee’s wife ” 

MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 26th February 1959 

S.O. 510. — In pursuance of clause (b) of section (2) of the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises the Special Land Acquisition Officer, Ahmednagar, in the 
State of Bombay to perform the functions or the competent authority under the- 
said Act fot; the areas falling within his jurisdiction. 

[No. EE. 12(1)/591. 



-6o2 THE GAZETTE Ot INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1830 [J>a*t II 


S.O. 51 L — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
17 of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 
of 19{52), the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by 
it under section 6, section 7, section 8 [except clause (b) of sub-section (1)] (tpd 
section 13 of the said Act, snail be exercisable also by the Special Land Acquisi- 
tion Officer, Ahmendnagar, in the state of Bombay, in respect of any property- 
situated within his jurisdiction; | ; 

Provided that the power under the said section 8 in so far as it relates to the 
fixing of thei amount of compensation by agreement shall not be exercised except 
• with the previous concurrence of the Central Government. 

[No. EE. 12 (V)/59.] 
B. D. KUMAR, Dy. Secy. 


THE MYSORE CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, BANGALORE 

Bangalore, the 29th January 1959 - 

S.O. 512. — Corrigendum to Notification No. 11/58 (C. No. Vr/Y/21/67/58-B.l), 
dated the 19th June, 1958, of the Collector of C. Ex., Bangalore [published under 
:S. O. No. 2453 on pages 2576 and "2577 of part II, Section 3 (ii) of the Gazette 
of India dated 29th November, 1958], 

Note (ii) and (iii) to annexure ‘A’ Records of Dips taken shall be sub- 
stituted by I 

(if) Dips should be taken each time at the beginning of work for the 
shift day or close of work for the shift day. 

(iii) No dips need be taken when oil is cleared by weighment but dips 

must be taken when it is cleared in bulk without weighment. 

(iv) Dips must also be taken each time oil is received into the storage 
tank, i 

[No. VI/Y/21/57/5B-B.1.] 
D. N. KOHLI, Collector. 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

Nrw Delhi the 26 th February, 1959 

S.O. 513. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 57 of the Delhi 
Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957), the Delhi Development Authority, with the previous 
approval of the Central Government, hereby makes the following regulations, namely : — 

■CHAPTER I 
General 

1. Short Title. —These Regulations may be called the Delhi Development Authority 
Regulations. 

2 . Definition*. — in these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires : — 

(а) 'Act’ means the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (6r of 1957); 

(б) ‘ Authority ’ mceps the Delhi Development Authority constituted under section 
3 of the Act. 


CHAPTER II 

3. Conduct of business. — The Authority shall meet and shall from time to time make 
such arrangement!; not inconsistent with the Act with respect to the place, day, hour, notice, 
management and adjournment of its meetings and generally with respect to the transaction 
of business as it may think fit, subject to the following provisions, namely : — - 
(a) an ordinary meeting shall be held at least once in every month: 

Provided that between any two successive mtetings there shall ordinarily not 
be an interval of more than 30 days; 

(b) the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman, may, whenever he thinks fit, apd shall upon 
the written request of not less than two members, call an extraordinary meet- 
ing ; 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH V, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1380 603 


(c) a notice for an ordinary meeting and for an extraordinary meeting shall not be less than 

three days and 24 hours respectively ; 

( d ) no business shall be transacted at any meeting unless at least four members are 

present from the beginning to the end of the meeting ; 

(e) every meeting shall, if the Chairman is present, be presided over by him and if he is 

absent, the Vice-Chairman. If neither is present, it shall be presided over by 
such one of the members present as may be chosen by the meeting; 

if) all questions shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members present and voting, 
the person presiding having a second or casting vote in all cases of equality of 
votes ; 

is) if a poll be demanded, the names of the members voting and the nature of their votes 
shall be recorded by the person presiding ; 

J h) minutes shall be kept of the names of the members present and of the proceedings at 
each meeting in a book to be provided for this purpose, which shall be signed 
at the ensuing meeting by the person presiding at such meeting, and shall be open 
to inspection by any member during office hours; and 

(i) no person shall be entitled to object to the text of the minutes of any meeting unless 
he was present at the meeting to which they relate. 

CHAPTER III 

Forms of applications for permission under Section 13 (1), 

4. Forms of applications for permission under Section 13 ( 1 ). — -Every person or 
body (including a department of Government) desiring to obtain the permission referred to in 
Section 12 of the Act shall make an application in wiriting to the Authority in the form pres- 
cribed in schedule I to those Regulations. 

5. Communications of orders on application for development. — All communications 
containing the grounds of refusal of permission fop development shall be addressed in the name 

of the applicant and be sent to him by registered post acknowledgement due and shall const i_ 
tute conclusive evidence of the fact that the decision of the Authority has been communicated 

6. Form of register of application. — The register of applications for permission to deve- 
lop land shall contain the particulars as prescribed in Schedule II to the Regulations. 

Schedule 1 

Form of application for permission under Section 13(1). 

FORM A 

For permission to develop land other than erection of a building as defined in subjection (j) 
of Section 2 of the Act. 


From 


To 

The Secretary, 

Delhi Development Authority. 


Dated 


Sir, 

I/We beg to apply for permission to undertakc/carry out the development of the site des- 
cribed below- - 


(a) Description of tire land 
[location with name of the 
road(s) on /off which the 
property abuts and boundaries] 


lb) Area 


Sq. yds. 


Acres. 



604 the GA/.MIt Of INDIA: MARCH 7, 1!D9/ PHAICrllNA 16, I HtiO [Part IE 


2 . I/Wc attach herewith the following documents [in triplicate, other than document (a)] 

(a) Documentary proof in support of title in the land proposed for development. 

( h ) 400 ft. -1 inch map showing the exact location of the site proposed for de- 
velopment with all the existing roads abutting the site to a depth of 
about i mile along its property. 

(c) 100 ft.-t inch map showing the boundaries of the proposed site and indicating all 

the existing roads with the property and also in the one abutting it to a depth of 
about 200 ft. all round it. 

(d) A note indicating the type of development proposed v, \r., residential, commercial or 

industrial. 

3. The plans have been prepared by 
Name of registered Planner /Architect/ 

Surveyor _. 

Registration No. 

Address 


4. I have deposited a lee of Rs 

prescribed in the rule made under section 56 (2) (A) of the Act. 


in accordance with the scal c 


Yours faithfully. 


Applicant. 


FORM B 

For permission to erect a building on vacant land or for additions alterations and/or repairs 10 an existing 

building. 


From 


To 

The Secretary, 

Delhi Development Authority. 


Sir, 


Dated 


I/We beg to apply for permission to erect/re-erect/make additions and/or alterations to/under- 
take repairs to a building on a piece of land measuring- — * — -sq. yds, over which 

I possess the necessary ownership rights, situate at — - — - — - — Street/Road, Ward No. — ■ — - 

Block No.— Plot No. — - - — - — - — • — — name of 

Bchemc (if any)— — — — — - — - — — — 


2. I attach in triplicate 

(a) — - — — — — — - — sheets of plans, elevation and sections, stated on the reverse ; 

(b) a specification of the proposed building on the prescribed form. 


3. The plans have been prepared by- 

Natne of registered 
Architect/Surveyor — 

Registration No. - 

Address N. L. — — 


4, The sanitary installation will be done by 

Name of Licensed Plumber — - — 

Licence No. - — ■ 

Address - — — 



Sec. 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7. 1959/PHALGUNA 10, 18R0 6o5 


Both the Registered Architect and the Liccmed Plumber have signed the plans. 

S. I have deposited a fcce of Rs in accordance with the scale prescribed in the rule 

mad# under Section 56 (2) (/;) of the Act. 


Yours faithfully, 
Signature of applicant 


Plans 


(i) Site plan i6'-o" to an inch showng all drainage linings and sewer connections. 


(ft) Grfiund floor plan 
(fit) Other floor plans 

(iv) Typical crose section 

(v) Longitudinal section 

(vi) All elevations 

ftff) 1" to a foot part of the principle ele- 
vation of the main building and part of 
the the. cross section. 


These drawings must be in the form of 
regular working drawings showing 

all dimensions of rooms, openings, 

thickness of walls, materials used for 

wall roof, floors, foundations, damp 

proof course, drainage scheme. 


SPECIFICATION SHEET. 

Specification of proposed building. 

(1) Total plot area —— — — — — — ■ — — — — - — — — Sft, 

(2) Total build up area — 

Ground floor Existing - - — ■■ — -Sft. Proposed — — - — — — -Sft. 

1st floor — Existing—— — — — — — Sft. Proposed - — — -Sft. 

II floor — -Existing— — -Sft, Proposed — * — -Sft. 


(3) The purpose for which it is intended to use the building— 


(4) Specifications to be used in construction of the 

(f)Eoundations — • — — — — — — — — — 

(if) Walls — — — — — — - — — - ■ — 

(iff) Floors — — — — — — — - — 

(tv) Roofs — — — — — 

(5) Number of storeys of which the building will consist— — • — — — — — — 

(6) Approximate number of persons proposed to be accommodated— — — — - — — - — — — — - 

(7) The number of latrines to be provided — — — —— — — — - - ■■ — — 

(8) Whether the site has been built upon before or not ; If so, when did the previous 

buildings cease to be fit for occupation — — — — - — — — 

(9) Source of water to be used for building purposes— — — — — — — — ■ — — — — — — — 


Signature of Applicant 


Schedule II 

Form of Register of Application* for permission to develop land , other than the erection of a building as 
defined {n Sub-Section (j) of Section 2 of the Act. 

(1) Serial No. 

(2) Name and address of applicant. 

(3) Date of receipt of the application under section 13 in the office of the Authority. 

(4) Description of the land, its location and area. 

(5) Orders passed on the application — 

(a) Whether permission granted or refused (with resolution number and date), 

(h) Grounds of refusal of permission ; 

(c) date of communication of the decision to applicant. 

(6) Remarks, if any. 

II. For permission to erect a building on vacant land or for additions, alterations and/or 
repairs to an existing building. 



6q6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7. 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 [Paht II 


(1) Serial No. 

( 2 ) Name and address of applicant, 

( 3 ) Date of receipt of the application under section 13 in the office of the Authority. 

( 4 ) Description of the land, its location and area. 

( 5 ) Orders passed on the application — 

(a) whether permission granted or refused (with resolution number a nd date), 

(b) grounds of refusal of permission. 

(c) date of communication of the decision to the applicant. 

( 6 ) Remarks, if any. 

[No. F. 1 ( 48 ) 58 -G. A.]. 

M. L. GUPTA, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 26th February 1959 

S.O. 514. — -In pursuance of sub-rule (d) of rule 2 of the Indian Medical 
Council Rules, 1957 published with the notification of the Government of India 
In the Ministry of Health S. R. O. No. 1319, dated the 16th April, 1957, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints Dr. K. P. Sarathy, M.B.B.S., M.Sc., Assistant 
Director of Medical Service (Medical) , Madras, as ‘Returning Officer’ for Madras 
for the conduct of election of a member to the Medical Council of India under 
clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1950. 

[No. F. 5-40/58-M.L] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Dy. Secy. 

) 

New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 515. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Drugs Act, 
1940 (23 of 1940), the Central Government after consultation with the Drugs 
Technical Advisory Board, hereby makes the following further amendment m 
the Drugs Rules, 1945, the same having been previously published as required 
by the said section, namely: — 

In the said rules, for sub-rule (1) of rule 124, the following shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"124(1) The Indian Pharmacopoeia, the Pharmacopoeia of the United States, 
the National Formulary of the United States, the International 
Pharmacopoeia and the. State Pharmacopoeia of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics shall be deemed to be prescribed pharmacopoeias 
for the purpose of the Schedule to the Act. 

[No. F.7-94/58-D.] 
T. V. ANANTANARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 516. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 
of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957) and in continuation of this 
Ministry’s notification No. F.12-192/57-LSG, dated the 29th November, 1958, the 
Central Government, after consultation with the Delhi Development Authority 
and the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, hereby declares the additional areas 
described in the Schedule below to be development areas for the purposes of the 
said Act. 


Schedule V 

Area for the re-development of Tihar Village, bounded as under: — 

East — Pucca road from the junction of Subhash Chowk upto a distance of 
1 , 100 ' along the road. 

South-East — Vacant land, school ground, Tekkia Area upto the agricultural 
fields fencing. 

South — The agricultural field fencing. 

West — Pucca service road leading to New Central Jail, fields and upto the 
pond near the agricultural fencing. 

North— Subhash Chowk, Ponds and Single Storeyed Rehabilitation quarters 
in between. 



607 


Site. 5 (ii)J THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHAEgUNA 16, 1880 


l Schedule VI | ! 

Area of Ranjit Nagar and Naraina Villages bounded as under:— 

North — An imaginary line running parallel to Patel Road and at a distance 
of 2,700 ft. from the road. 

South— Ring Road from the crossing of the Railway line to the Crossing df 
Ring Road and Kucha Road near Naraina Abadi. 

East — Boundary of Pusa Institute and Kucha Road from Pusa Institute 
boundary to the Ring Road, near Naraina Abadi. 

West— Metei'gauge Railway Line to Rewari. 

[No, F.12-192/97-LSG.] 
A. P. MATHUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1959 

S.O. 517. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 309 of the Consti- 
tution of India, the President is pleased to decide that thei Railway Provident 
Funds (Temporary Relaxation) Rules promulgated vide Railway Board’s Notifica- 
tion No. F.41WA(5), dated the 15th January, 1942 as amended by the Notification 
No. F.42WA(5), dated the 6th August, 1242 shall be deemed to have been with- 
drawn with effect from the 1st April, 1950. 

[No. F(E) 52/PF-44/ ( 1 ) .1 
R. E. de SA, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL 
(Department df Iron and Steel) 

(Iron & Steel Control) 

New Delhi, the 1th March 1959 

S.O. 518.— /ESS. COMM/IRON AND STEEL-lS(l) and 27(l)-Corr(l).— The 

following Corrigendum issued by the Iron and Steel Controller is hereby 
published for general information: 

“ CORRIGENDUM 

In the notification of the Gazette of India in the Ministry of Steel, Mines and 
Fuel (Department of Iron and Steel) No. S.O, 2249/ESS. COMM/IRON AND 
STEEL/15(1) and 27(1), dated 18th October 1958, published in the Gazette of 
India under Part II Section 3, Sub-Section (II), dated 1st November 1958, the 
following corrections shall be made, viz : — • 

In Schedule -1 — Tinplates 


At Page 20 1 8 


At Page 2019 


At page 2020 


At Page 2021 


Odd sizes coke unassorted Tinplates. 

SI. No. 30 For Rs. 98 -99 Read Rs. 8^-99 

SI. No. 33 For size 205 X 14 Read size 20 X 14 

SI. No. 71 For size 31X 18 Read size 31 x 184 

SI. No. 79 For size 284 X 14-4 X iiz X 142 Read size 28 lxi 4 ^x 
112X 152 

SI. No, 8? For size 32-4x22x112x225 Read size 32-1x22x112x275 
SI. No. hi For size 28x27-116 Read size 28X 77- 1/16 

SI. No. 125 For size 28 X 19 Read Bize 28 x 10+ 

For SI. No. 125 against size 284 X 224 Read SI. No. 126 
SI. No. 143 For size 25X 17*7/8 Read size 25X 17-7/8 
SI. No. 156 For size 29jX 204 Read size 29j X 20j 
SI. No. 159 For size 304x23-7/16x112x232x31-7 Read size 3oJx 
23-7/16x112x232x31-6 

(Best Coke Tinplates) 

Si. No. 189 For size 28x20x56x168x25 Read size 28x20x56x168x26 
SI. No. 213 For size 28X20X 182 Read size 28X20X 112 
SI. No. 214 For size 28 X 10 Read size 28 X 20 
Charcoal No. I 

SI. No. 230 For Rs. 144-22 Read Rs. 144-72 
SI. No. 232 For Rs, 155-74 Read Rs. 155-44 

Charcoal No. II 


SI. No. 240 For Rs, 182-48 Read Rs. 112-48 


At Page 2022 



6o8 the GA 7 ETTE OE INDTA: M Aft OH 7 , ] , J 59 /PHALC,UNA 1 G, 1880 [Pam II 


At Page 2024 In the last column of the Heading For Place extra for tinplates. Read 

Place extra per M/Ton for Tinplates. 

At Page 2024 Part III- Sales by Controlled Stockholders. 

In the item next to No. ( bl For (c) Road (c) and Delete the figures under this 
item under the headings Rate per L/Ton and Rate per M/Ton and insert the 
following. 


Bombay 

Calcutta 

Delhi . 

Kanpur 

Madras 

Ambala 


Rate per L/Ton. Rate per M/Ton 


10 o 
10 o 
S 12 
K o 
<S 8 
S o 


9 84 
9-84 
5-66 
7-87 
6 '40 
4-92 


At Page 2024 

Al Page 2025 
Af Page 2025 
At Page 2025 
At Page 2026 

At Page 2028 


At Page 2031 
At Page 2031 

At Page 2035 
At Page 2037 


Al Page 2139 


At Tagc 2140 

A; Page 2041 
A< Page 2042 


Under Part III clause -d (1) 

For “shall be borne the latter” Read shall be borne by the latter. 

In Schedule II Wire and — Wire Prc nucTs 
In item No. 3 under col. 1 1 untested. 

For 956 Read 926 

In [tern No. 5 under col. I untested 

For 1004-8 Read 1004-87 

In item No. 5 under col. Ill untested. 

For 108852 Read 1088-52 
Under Spring steel wire. 

Item (1) For 5 f> % to 65 % Read -56% to -65% 

(2) For 65 °/ 0 to 25% Read -65% to -75% 

(33 For 80% and upwards Read -8o ° 0 and upwards, 

Under Part IV — Special Conditions for sale 
In line 3 of Clause ( 1) for “ shall apply ex, 9ize” 

Read “ shall apply “ ex-site”. 

In Schedule III— Pio Ikon 

In Part 11 — item 2 (i) 

For ‘ delivery’ Read ' delivering’ 

In Part 111 — item under the heading 'Rate per L/’T’on agninst-Vijayawada 
For Rs. 5-8 Read Rs. 6-8 

In Schedule — IV-Prlme Quality Steel and Semis 

In item No. 22- insert the term ‘ Gate channels’ as the heading. 

Under Part DI — in Para— 2 — Second line. 

For the words * ex. yard for f.o.r. siding” 

Raed ' ex-yard or f.o.r. siding” 

In Schedule-V — Iron and Sieel- Defective and Scrap 

For ‘ 2139’ Read ‘ 2039’ 

In Part I-B-In the heading in item 5 
For 3/16' to 1/1 Read 3/16" to i/i6' r ’ 

In Part I-A — In item 5(1113 under col. II M/T. 

For 295-42 Read 285-42 

In Part — I-B — In item 7 ,ii) under cnl. Ill L/Ton. 

For 415 Read 445 

In Part — B — In the heading 
For Part I-T Read Part I-B 

In Part I-B — In item 23(c) under col. II M/Ton. 

For 690-52 Read 590-52 

Under Foot note NB-De/efe clause (2) 

Also, Delete the figure (1) 



Sfc. 8 (ii )3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 609 


At Page 2043 


At Page 2044 


At Page 2043 


At Page 2046 


In Part I-C —In item 5(b) under col. Ill M/T. 

For 364-45 Read 364-15 
In item 8(11) under col. II M/T. 

For 516-86 Read 306-86 
In item 8(111) under col, III M/Ton. 

For 497-94 Read 497-02 

In item 12(a) under Col. Ill M/Ton. 

For 447-51 Read 447-81 

In item 17(D) under Col. I M/Ton. 

For 370-65 Read 270-63 
Under Foot note (2) 

Delete the letters and figures under Col. I and Col. (I and insert the lollotv- 
ing : — 

Under Col. I L/T- M/T. Under Col. II L/T. M/T. 

Re. T75/- 172-23 Rs. 200/- 196-84 

Under Part II A (Fresh Rc-rollable Scrap) 

In item No. 4 and item No. 5 under M/T. 

For 403-33 Read 403-52 

Under Part Ill-Melting Scrap. 

In item No. 5 under M/T. 

For 172-2 Read 172-23 


At Page 2052 
At Page 2053 
At Page 2054 

At Page 2056 


At Pag$ 2058 — D 

At Page 2060 - 1 
At Page 2061 


At Page 2062 


At Page 2064 
At Page 2065 


At Page 2066 
At Page 2066 


In Appendix I — Extras List 

In item No. I (vi) (h) — Extra for high Carbon 

For (6-7 per cent carbon) Read (- < 5 / • 7 per cent Carbon), 

In the heading under thickness. 

Insert 1/2" after 7/16" as the last Column. 

In item No. B-3(ii) 

For “width over 5” and under S/X" ” 

Read “width over 3" and under 8" ” 

Item No, 3 (a) — Angles 

Under the heading 1/4" against item 2" ' I - 1/2' 

For 91-68 Read 19 -68 

Item No. 3(a) Angles 

Under the heading 3/16* against item No. i|*x il" For 
For “23-12-7” Read “23-12-0” 

Base price item No. 4 Plates 3/8" and up under item 5(ii) 
For “Exceeding 12' and upto and including 14” 

Read “Exceeding 12' and upto and including 14' ” 

Under Base price item No. 9 Black Sheets. 

For size 2'-6'V 2'-2" Read 2'-6"xz' 

For size 4'X io'- 4 l" Read size 4' x io'-4j" 

Under the heading 14 gauge against size 4 x l'-6" 

For Rs. 3-82 Read Rs. 3-12 

Under the heading 14 gauge against size 6'y I '-3' 

For Rs. 3-82 Read Rs. 3-12 

Under the heading 19 gauge against size 6'-)" x i'-8|" 

For Rs. 7-28 Read Rs, 7-8 

Under the heading 16 gauge against size 6'x 4'-8‘' 

For Rs. 14-79 Read Rs. 14-76 

For Size 10' — 5"y 2" — 8" Read Size 10 — 3" 'z'-S' 

For size 10 v 2" Read 10x2 

For size 10 X2"— 8 Read 10 v 2 — 8" 

For size 10 X5" Read 10 A 5 

For size 10' v 2" — 2 \" Read 10' X 2' — 2}' 

For size 10'— 2"X35J" Read 10'— 2'X35 J' 

For size io'x3' Read lo'X3' 



6i6 tlffi tiAlEtTfe Of INBlA: MARCH 7 , l 9 S 9 /t>HAtoHNA ifi, 1&80 [f A ft+ it 


At Page 2066 
At Page 2067 
At Page 2068 

)J » 

5 » 

1> j) 

JJ M 

At Page 2069 

*> 33 

At Page 2073 


For size 10 ' X 2—6* Read 10 ' x 2' — 6" 

For size 4' x 38 Read 10'— -4' x 38^" 

For size 10— s x 3'— 6' Read 10'- -5" y 3'— 6" 

For size 11' X 3' to 3'— 6" Read 1 1 ' x 3 ' to 3 6' 

For size n'xover 3'~6" to a* firad size 11'x over 3' — 6" to 4' 

For size 1 1 ' X 3" — 6" Feed size 1 1 ' x 3 ' — -6' 

For size 1 1 ' x 3*— 9' Read size 1 1 ' x 3 ' — 9" 

For size 1 1 ' x 4' — 3 ' Read size 1 1 ' x 4 '—3' 

For size 1 1 3' x 3"~7 1/4* Arad size 11'— 3"X3'— 7 1/4' 

For size 1 1 '—3" x 3 '—7 1 / 4" Feud size 1 1 '—3' x 3 '—7 3 /4* 

Under item No. J Base price item No. 10 
In I(ii) under the heading M/T. 

For 14-4 6 Fend 14-76 

A. S. Bam, 

Iron and Steel Controller." 


[No. F-SC(A)-2(274) 58] 
J. S. BAIJAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 26th February 1959 

S.O. 519.— Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary to 
acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed in the State of Mysore for 
public purpose, being h purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons 
including payment of compensation to such persons ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Displaced Persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), il is notified that the Central Govern- 
ment nas decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, the evacuee properties specifying in the Sche- 
dule hereto annexed. 

Schedule 


Name of [the town and 
the locality where the 

S. No. Particulars of the property E.P. is situated Name of the evacuee 


I 

6/2 Kubersingh Lane, 
valli. 

Doddama- Bangalore City 

. Shri A.R. Sheriff. 

2 

134 Davanathachar St., Chamarajapct Do. 

. Shri Mohamcd Yakoob. 

3 

22 Coles Rd- 


. Bangalore Civil Area 

. Shri R.A.K. Sheriff. 

4 

30 ‘C’ Old Police Lines 


Do. 

. Shri Abdul Samad. 

5 

11 Eagle St. 


Do. 

. Shri Ismail Haii Habeeb 

6 

No. 6 Hall Rd. 


Do. 

Do. 

7 

No. 1, Hutchins Rd. 


Do. 

Do. 

8 

No. 16 Bamboo cherry 


Do. 

. Shri A.H. Khan. 


[No. i(i2i6)/58/Comp.III/Prop.] 
RAJA LAL GUPTA, Under Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 520 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 3 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. S. Bisen, as Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to su<;h 
officers by or under thei said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office, 

[No. 5 ( 20 )/Admn,(Reg .)/59 ] 

M, L. PURI, 

Settlement Commissioner and Ex-Officio, Under Secy. 



$FC. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1380 gj 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

, New Delhi , the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 521. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R. K. Jaiswal/ as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office. 

[No. 8/123/58-Admn (R) .] 
M. L. PURI, 

Settlement Commissioner & Ex-Officio, Under Secy, jor Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 26 th February 1959 

S.O. 522. — In exercise of thd powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 

ment hereby appoints Sri Sachchida Nand Verma to be an Inspector for the whole 
of the State of Bihar for the purposes of the said Act and of any scheme made 
thereunder, in relation to an establishment belonging to, or under the control of, 
the Central Government or in relation to an establishment connected with a 
railway administration, a major port, a mine or an oil-field or a controlled 
industry. 

[No. PF.I/31(559)59.] 
New Delhi, the 27 th February 1959 i ; ] 

S.O. 523. — Whereas Immediately before the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 
1952 (19 of 1952), became applicable with efiert from the 1st August, 1956, to 
the factory known as the Pbalton Sugar Works Limited, S.akharwadi, District 
Satara North, there was in existence a provident fund common to the employees 
employed In the factory, to which the said Act applies and the employees in their 
establishments mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of that Act shall 
also apply to the aforesaid establishments. 

Schedule 

1. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd.. Civil Engineering Department, P.O. 

Eakhai'wadl, District Stara North. 

2. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd,, Medical & Sanitation Department, P.O. 

Sakhar Wadi, District Stara North. 

3. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd., Colony Watch and Ward, P.O. Sakhar- 

wadl, District Stara North. 

4. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd,, Primary School, P.O. Sakharwadl, 

District Satara North, 

5. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd., Nira Godown. P.O. Nlra (R.S.), District 

Poona. 

6. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd., Phalton Office, P.O. Phalton, District 

North Satara. 

7. The Phalton Sugar Works Ltd.. Bombay Office, Sangli Bank Building, 

4th Floor, 296, Bazar Gate Street, Fort Bombay-1 . 

[No, PF.II-0(41)58.] 


New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 524, Whereas immediately before the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 

1952 (19 of 1952), became applicable with effect from the 1st November, 1952, to 
the factory known as the Asawra Mills Limited, P.O. Asawra, Ahmedabad there - 
was in existence a provident fund common to the employees employed in the 
factory to which the said Act applies and the employees in their Head Office at 
Kodak ’House, 3rd Floor, Dr, Dadabhai Naoroji Road, Fort, Bombay— 1; 



6 12 THE GAZETTE or INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/P1IALGUNA i Gj 1 F&O [Part II 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of that Act shall 
a'so apply to the Head Office of the said factory situated at Bombay, 

[No. PF, 11-9(47)/ 58.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 25 th February 1959 

S.O. 325, — In the Ministry of Labour & Employment Notification No, S.O. 2640 
dated the 10th December, 1958, published at page 2923 in the Gazette of India, 
Part 11, Section 3, sub-section (li) , dated the 20th December, 1958. 

1. for “Shri A, K. Basu, Deputy Financial Adviser to the Government of 

India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment” substitute “Shri 
A. K. Basu, Internal Financial Adviser and ex-offlcio Deouty Secre- 
tary to the Government of India in the Ministries of Labour and 
Employment and Law"; 

2. for “Shri A. K. Basu, Deputy Financial Adviser 1o the Government of 

India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, New Delhi” substitute 
“Shri A, K. Basu, Internal Financial Adviser and ex-officio • Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministries of Labour 
and Employment and Law, New Delhi”. 

[No. PF. 11.1(8) /58]. 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 1 h February 1959 

S.O. 526. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (lj of section 
12 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952). the Central Government hereby reconstitutes 
the Mining Board for the State of Madhya Pradesh with the following members;. 

Chairman 

The President, Board of Revenue, Madhya Pradesh ex-officio [Nominated 
by the Central Government under clause (a) of section 12(1')]. 


Members 

(1) The Regional Inspector of Mines, Parasia Inspection Region, Chhind- 

wara, ex-officio [Nominated by the Central Government under clause 
(b) of section 12(1)]. 

(2) Dr. (Mrs,) Seeta Parmanand. M.P., ParmanaiKl Bungalow, Chhindwara. 

(Nominated bji the Centra] Government under clause (c) of section 
12 ( 1 )] 

(3) Shri R. A. Trivedl, ML. A,, M/s. J. A. Trivedi Brothers, Mining Pro- 

prietors, Balaghat (M.P.). [Nominated by the Mineral Industry 
Association under clause (d) of section 12(1)]. 

(4) Shri W. Bright, Chief Mining Engineer, C/o. Shaw Wallace & Co. Parasia, 

Chhindwara. [Nominated by the Madhya Pradesh Mining Association 
under clause (d) of section 12(1)]. 

(5) Shri A. C. Malty, Secretary, Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ Federation, 

Kurasia Colliery Branch, P.O. Kurasia, M.P. [Nominated by the 
Chhattisgarh Colliery Workers’ Federation, under clause (e)(ii) of 
section 12(1)] 

(6) Shri S. O. Gupta, Secretary, Rashtriya Manganese Khadan Prantlk 

Kamgar Sadan, P.O. Tirodi, District Balaghat. [Nominated by the 
Central Government under clause (e) (ii) by section 12(1)] 

' [No, MI-3 (2)/ 58.] 



S*c. S (n)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16 1880 613 


New Delhi, the 2nd March 1969 

8.0. 627. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers, conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act, 1047 (32 of 1947), is published as required by sub-section (1) 
of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 1st April 1959 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government 


Draft Amendment 

In the said rules, for rule 42, the following rule shall be substituted, namely — 

“42. Conditions of service of persons appointed under section 9 of the Act — 
Until other provision is made in this behalf, persons appointed under section 9 
of the Act shall be governed — 

(a) by such rules relating to conditions of service of Government servants 

generally, as have been made applicable with or without modifications 
to such persons, and as are in force immediately before the 1st March, 
1959, and 

(b) by such other rules relating to conditions of service of Government 

servants generally, as may, after the Bald date, be made applicable 
with modifications. If any, to such persons by the Central Govern- 
ment ” 

[No MII-l(ll)/58 ] 
P N. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 th February 1969 

S.O. 528.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the National Insurance Company Limited and their workmen 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Reference No. 54 of 1958 


Parties. 

Employeis in relation to the National Insurance Company Limited 

and 


Their workmen 

Camp Calcutta, dated the 18th February, 1969 
PRESENT 

Shri Salim M Merchant, B A LL B , Chairman 
Appearances 

Shri K P Mookeijee Secretaiy, Bharat Manufacturers, Tradeis and Dealers 
Association with Shri R S Agarwal, Sarvashri S M Khaitan and P K Ghcsli 
Manager’s, National Insurance Co Ltd , Calcutta, for the employers 

Shri G N Bhattachaijce, Advocate, with Shri P P Rabindianathan, Secretaiy, 
Shri A K Roy Choudhury, Treasurer, and Shri K C Mondal, Vice President, 
National Insurance Employees’ Union, for the workmen 

State West Bengal 


Industry Insurance 



6 14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 


[Part II 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour & Employment, by its Order 
No. LR.II-ll(20)/58 dated 4th October 1958, made in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47), was pleased to refer to me for adjudication the industrial 
dispute between the parties above named in respect of the matter specified In 
the following schedule to the said order: — 

"Whether the workmen in the National Insurance Company Limited 
Calcutta are entitled to any relief on account of increase in the cost 
of living index and, if so, to what extent.” 

2. After the written statements of the parties were received the hearing of 
the dispute was fixed at Calcutta on 2nd January 1959 and on the application 
of the National Insurance Employees Union which represented the workmen, the 
hearing was adjourned to 4th February 1959, on which date and on 5th and 6th 
instant the representatives of the parties were heard on the merits of the 
dispute. Thereafter, there were talks of settlement between the parties and the 
hearing was adjourned to 17th February 1959 at Calcutta and at the adjourned 
hearing today (18th February 1959'), after prolonged discussions between them- 
selves and at my intervention the parties have been able to reach a settlement, the 
terms of which are embodied in the joint application filed by the parties today. 
A copy of the said application containing the terms of settlement is annexed 
hereto and marked Annexure ‘A’. The parties have prayed that an award be 
made in terms of the settlement and as the terms, in the facts and circumstances 
of the case appear to me to be fair and reasonable, I make an award in terms 
of annexure r A’ which shall form part of this award. 

3. No order as to costs. 

Camp : Calcutta, 18 th February 1959. 

Salim M. Merchant, Chairman, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

Annexure ‘A’ 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 54 op 1958 


Parties: 

Employers m relation to the National Insurance Company Ltd. 

AND 

Their workmen. 

May it please the Tribunal: 

We the parties above named have reached the following settlement in respect 
of the subject matter of this dispute and pray that an award be made in terms 
thereof: — 

1. It is agieed that the existing scheme of dearness allowance applicable 

to the employees of the Calcutta Office of the company shall be 
varied as follows with effect from 1st January 1958: — 

For the clerical staff the, dearness allowance shall be 60% of the basic 
salary with a minimum of Rs. 55 per month and a maximum of 
Rs. 90 per month, 

2. Each existing member of the clerical staff will get an increase of Rs. 9 

per month subject to a maximum of Rs, 90 per month in the dear- 
ness allowance payable' to him as on 18th February 1959 with effect 
from 1st January 1958. 

3. The monthly dearness alowance payable to the subordinate staff will 

increased from Rs. 33 to Rs. 38 per month effective from 1st January 
1958. 

4. It is agreed that the management will make payment of the amount of 

the arrears of dearness allowance payable to the clerical staff and 



Sic. 3 (11)] THE, GAZETTE OF INDIA . MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 615 


the subordinate staff as agreed above along with their salary for the 
month of February, 1959. 

At Calcutta this the 18th day of February 1959. 

For the Employers: For the workmen: 

K. P. Mookerjee, G. N. Bhattacharjee, 

Secretary, Bharat Manufacturers Advocate. 

Traders and Dealers Association. 


S. M, Khaitan, 

Manager. 

P. K. Ghosh, 

Manager. 

R. S. Agarwal, 

Secretary. 

Taken on file. 


P. P, Ravindranathan, 
Secretary, 

National Insurance Employees' Union. 

For the workmen: 
K. C. Mondal, 
Vice-President, 

National Insurance Employees Union. 

A. K. Roy Chowdhury, 
Treasurer. 

[No. LRII/ll(20)/58.] 
Salim M. Merchant, Chairman. 


New Delhi, the 2nd March 1959 

S.O. 529. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1C47), the Central Government hereby publishes the. following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the M/S. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd., and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL, TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 


Reference No. 55 of 1958. 

Parties: 

Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Limited, P.O. Dishergarh. 

and 

Their workmen. 

Camp: Calcutta, dated the 23 rd February, 1959. 

Industry: Coal State: West Bengali 

Present: 

Shri Salim M. Merchant, B.A.LL.B. — Chairman. 

Appearances: 

Shri D. Narsingh, Advocate, instructed by Shri B. P. Kabi. Security Officer — 
for Messrs Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd. 

Shri S. M. Banerjee, Advocate, with Shri M, M. Saha, Advocate, instructed 
by Shri S, K. Rudra, Office Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Congress— 
for the workmen. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour & Employment, by its Order 
No. LR.II-2(88)/58, dated 11th October 1958 was pleased in exercise of the powers 
conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947 (XIV of 1947), to refer to me for adjudication an industrial dispute 
stated to be between Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd., P.O. Dishergarh and their 
workmen in respect of the following matter specified in the Schedule to the said 
Order: — 

“Whether the union’s demand for a higher scale of pay to the tractor driver 
than that awarded by the Labour Appellate Tribunal (Colliery Dis- 
putes) for car or lorry drivers is justified and if so, what should be 
the appropriate scale for the tractor driver?” 

2, Upon the usual notices being issued after receipt of the reference by the 
Tribunal, the Colliery Mazdoor Congress representing the workmen filed its 



6i6 


THE GAZETTE Cl' INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, *880 [Part T 


statement of claim on 15th December 1958 and the Chief Mining Engineer of 
Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd. filed its written statement in reply on 6th 
January 1959.. The company 'in its written statement has raised a preliminary 
objection that the present reference against it was invalid as the company is not 
the employer of the tractor driver concerned who is employed in the Sodepur 
workshop by Messrs. Bengal Coal Company Limited and it is not his employer 
being only the managing agents of the said company. Upon this contention being 
urged at the adjourned hearing of this dispute today, the representatives of the 
union filed an application stating that in view of the said legal objection against 
the maintainability of this reference against Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd. 
the workmen do not desire to press their claim against that company without pre- 
judice to their right to raise and press a fresh dispute against the proper 
employers. The representatives of Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd. have stated 
on the said application that they have no objection to the said application, which 
in fact they could not have, as they are not the employers concerned. 

3. In the result, the reference against Messrs. Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd. fails 
and is dismissed against them, without prejudice to the workmen’s right to raise 
and press an industrial dispute with regard to the subject matter of this reference 
against their proper employers. 

4. No order as to costs. 

(Sd.) Salim M. Merchant, Chairman, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

Camp: Calcutta, 

The 23 rd February, 1959. 

[No. LRII/2(88)58.) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 2 6th February 1959 

S.O, 530. — Whereas the Central Government is ct opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Loyabad Colliery of 
M/s Bird & Co. (P) Ltd., and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 

Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 


Whether the management of Loyabad Colliery of M/s Bird & Co. (Private) 
Ltd PO Bansjora (Dhanbad) was justified in placing Shri Anil Kumar Ghosh, 
Welfare Officer’s Clerk, In grade III. If not, to what relief is he entitled? 


[No, LRII-2(184)58,] 

New Delhi, the 27 th February 1959 


S Q 53 i — Whereas the Central Government is of opinton that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Barora Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified In the Schedule hereto annexed; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication. 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred 1 y clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute .or adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act 


Schedule 

(i) Whether the dismissal of Shri Damodar Misslr, Engine Khalasi, is In 

order; 

(ii) If not, to what relief he is entitled. 


[No. LRII-2(109)58.] 
K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy, 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MARCH 7, 1959/PHALGUNA 16, 1880 gry 


New Delhi, the 2nd March 1959 ' 

S.O. 532. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) cf sub-section (1) 
of section 3, read vsjith section 4 and sub-section (2) of section 5 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948, (11 of 1948), and after consulting the Advisory Board, as 
required by the proviso to sub-section (2) of the said section 5, the Central 
Government hereby revises minimum rates of wages in respect of the categories 
of employees specified in the schedule annexed hereto and employed in employ- 
ments carried on by or under the authority of the Ministry of Works, Housing 
and Supply, the same having been previously published as required by clause 
(b) of sub-section (1) of the said section 5, 

This notification shall come into force on and from the 1st April, 1959. 

Schedule 


Categories of employees All inclusive minimum rates 

of wages per day 

Rs. n.p. 

1-75 


2.00 


1.37 


[No. LWI(l)-6(4)/57.j 
PYARE LAL GUPTA, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

S.O. 533. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to Messrs Tulsidas Khimji, Bombay 
and their workmen, regarding the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in. exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A, and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10, of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri F. Jeejeebhoy as the Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Bombay, and 
refers the said dispute to the said Tribunal for adjudication. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of M/s. Tulsidas Khimji, was justified in retrenching 
14 clerks and 2 peons mentioned below from the 15th November, 1958 and whether 
proper procedure was adopted in retrenching them. If not, to what relief the 
retrenched workers are entitled? 

1. Sri Fravln Badhlka 

2. Sri K. S. Mahadik 

3. Sri Tanaji Arjun 

4. Sri Liladhar Paniya 

5. Sri P, S, Salunke 

6. Sri Dungarji C. Ashar 

7. Sri Vasanji Kalyanjl 

8. Sri Na'mdco Ayaroji 


1. Central Public Works Department 

(contract labour) in Ajmer 
(Rajasthan) Mates 

2. Central Public Works Department 

(contract labour) within the 
Union territory of Delhi 
Bhisties 

3. Central Public Works Department 

in Uttar Pradesh Mazdoor or 
Beldar 

(Adult female) 


6lS It IE CAZETTE OF INDIA: MARCH 7, 1959/PHALCUNA 1G. 1880 [Part II-Skc 3(h)] 


9. Sri Kashinath Kabal 
10 Sri Dakhonde 

11. Sri H. V. Hatkar 

12. Sri D. H. Palav 

13. Sri B. L. Vichare 

14. Sri Harivallabli Bhat 

15. Sri Gajanan £, Shivankur 
10. Sri M. S. Parab. 

I No. 1 jR 1V-28(6)/59.] 
A. L. IIANDA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28 th February 1959 

8 . 0 , 534 . — The Central Government hereby: (a) directs, in pursuance of the 
provisions of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 3805 dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modifi- 
cation of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No, S.O. 212 dated the 15th January, 1959 that the Advisory Panel 
of the Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay shai,. consist of 32 members with 
immediate effect; and 

(h) appoints Professor G. D. Parikh as a member of the Advisory Panel of the 
said Board at Bombay with immediate effect in exerelse of the powers conferred 
by the proviso to sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule (2) rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958. 

[No. 11/0/57-FC.] 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRtNTEf) IN INDIA BY THE OENERAL MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1959 



