- - 6 ) 


जिस्ट्र: सं० डी० 222 


REGISTERED No. D . 223. 


AAI 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India * 27015 


FI 


font 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


EN 


. 


सं0 22 
No. 22] 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार , मई 31 1969 Fठ 10 , 1891 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY,MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


%3E 


इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संख्याही जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
tirate pazlog diven to this part in order that it may be blod 

U separato complation 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
नीचे लि वे भारत के असाधारण गजपत्र 12 मई, 1969 तक प्रकाशित किये गय : --- 

The underment1019C Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 12th May, 
I9: - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


. . . - . 


Issue 
No . 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


-- 


- - 


- - 


176 


S . O . 1801. ltd izth May , 

156 ) . 


Election Commission 

of India 


Eleccion to the House 
of the People front 
the 25 -Sultanpur 
Parliamentary Consti 
tuency . 
25 - सुलतानप निर्वाचन 
क्षेत्र से लोक सभा के 
लिये निर्वाचन । 


भारत निर्वाचन आयोग 


एस० अोर 1805, दिनाक 
12 मई , 1939 


17S. O . 1806, .lar 1 12th May , 

1969. 


Misly of Informa 
Ton and Broadcasting 


Approval of thc film 
as specified in the 
Schedule therein . 


S . O . 180 - died ICTh May , 

1969 . 


Do 


Approval of the films 
as specified in the 
Schedule therein , 


S . O . 1808 , 111 112111 May, 

1069. 


DN 


Approval of the film : 
as specified in thu 
Schedule therein . 


. - .. - - . . - 


- - . - - 


- - .. 


( 2115 ) 


16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


| PART II 


- - - 


- - - - - -- 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- - . . : . 


- : . - 


- - 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


एम प्रो० 1809, दिनाक 
__ 12 मई , 1969. 


सूचना तथा प्रसार 
मंत्रालय 


मुखी में दी गई फिल्म 
को स्वीकृत करना । 


नदेव 


एस० प्र० 18] 0 , दिनाक 
12 मई , 1969 


सूची में दी गई फिल्मों 
को म्बीकृत करना । 


तदेव 


एस० प्रो० 1811, पिनाक 
12 मई , 1969. 


सूची में दी गई फिल्मों 
को स्वीकृत करना । 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रो की प्रतिया प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मागपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जायेंगी । माग पत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपनो के जारी होने की 
पारीख से 10 दिन के भीतर पहुच जाने चाहिए । 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the late of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


भाग II - वगड 3- - उपखण्ड ( ii ) 

PART II -~- Section 3 - Sub -section ( ii ) 
( क्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों पोर ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केंद्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विषिक प्रावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern . 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi , the 24th March 1969 
S . 0 . 2010.-..-In pursuance of section 116C ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Judgment pro 
nounced on the 11th March , 1969 , by the Supreme Court of India , New Delhi, 
in election petition No. 43 of 1967. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL, No. 1708 OF 1967 
Atarm. Das - Appellant 

Vs. 
Suriya Prasad - Respondent . 

JUDGMENT 
Shah, J . 

By order dated March 20 , 1968, we called for findings from the High Court of 
Madhya Pradesh on the following three issues : 
" ( 1 ) Whether the word undertaken by the appellant under the contract 

dated February 25, 1954, had been completed before January 19, 
1967, departmentally or through other contractors ? 


SLC . 3 (11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2117 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


( 2 ) If the work was not completed on Janualy 19 , 1967, has the project in 

respect of the incomplete work becii abandoned ? 
( 3 ) If the project Has not abandoned , was it intended to get the same 

completed through the appellant under the terms of the contract 

dates February 23, 1954 ? " 
The parties were given liberty "to lçad tidence on those issues. Accordingly 
the parties led oral evidence and produccd a mass of documentary evidence . 

The learned Judge founni tlie first inshie against the appellant; on the second 
Issue he held that the project was abandoned , and recorded on finding on the 
third issue. 

The contest between the paities now center s round the second issue, Counsel 
for the respondent contended that the evidence led before thc High Court cannot 
be considered because there was no clear plea raised in the reply to the election 
petition about abandonment or renunciation of the contract between the Gov 
ernment and the appellant, and that in any event the evidence does not justify 
a Anding in favour of the appcllant on tliet issue. In the judgment under appeal 
the High Court had observed that the case in which neither party has insisted 
on the seriormance of the contract for 1 morcinate length of time and in 
such cases it may be said that the parties have mutually abandoned the contract . 
In such a case , the contract may be treated as terminated or discharged by 
abandon vent but a party relying on abandonment must expressly plead and 
give its particulars," and since the appellant " did not canvass in this case that 
there was mutual abandonment of the contract in question by the parties" , the 
contention could not be accepted . But a person is disqualifed from offering 
himself as a candidate at an election if at the date of the nomination there sub 
sists a contract entered into by him in the course of his business with the appro 
priate Government for the supply of good or for the execution of any work 
undertaken by that Government within the meaning of s . 9A of the Representa 
tion of the People Act , 1951. The appellant was carrying on business as a build 
ing contractor and had in 1954 entered into a contract for the execution of 
Works undertaken by the Government of India . To make out a case of disqua 
Iification it had to be established that the contract subsisted on January 19 , 1967, 
when the nomination was filed by the appellant. The burden of proving that 
issue lay upon the respondent. By merely proving that the candidates had at 
some time in the past entered into a contract to execute works, the burden was 
not discharged : it had further to be established that the contract was subsisting 
at the crucial date. In making that enquiry it was necessary to decide whether 
the contract was completed , or if not completed , it was renounced . Whether 
there was a subsisting contract being the issue to be decided , the trial necessarily 
included an inquiry , even in the absence of an express plea , whether the con 
tract was completed or determined at the crucial date . This Court has after 
hearing the parties called for a finding on the question whether there subsisted 
a contract on January 19 , 1967 , between the appellant and the Government of 
India and for that purpose to determine whether the contract of the year 1954 
Was renounced or abandoned . The parties have led evidence and the issue whe 
ther there existed a contract on the crucial date which disqualified the appel 
lant must be decided . 

Under the terms of the contract the appellant had undertaken to raise the 
height of the Burj to 46 feet . It is common ground that he did not raise the 
height of the Burj above 35 feet. The authorities were dissatisfied with the work 
done by him till the end of March 1956. Work was inspected by the Archaeolo 
gical Engineer in 1957 and was found to be " defective, unsatisfactory and incom 
plete . " The Archaeological Engineer made adverse remarks against the appel 
lant and further work was discontinued . The Director General visited the site 
in July 1958 and found the work incomplete, unsatisfactory and defective. He 
remarked that the contractor may " be categorically told that he is not to proceed 
with the work " , and that the remaining work which may include the heightening 
of the Burj by not more than two feet , Alling up its interior and rendering its 
top water - tight may be done by departmental labour,” Accordingly the appel 
lant was informed by letter dated August 13 , 1958 , that he was " not to proceed 
with the work any more, " The appellant was clearly informed that he was not 
to raise the height of the Burj upto 46 feet as originally agreed : he was only 
asked to rectify the defects in the construction work executed by him . This way 
unmistakable evidence of determination of the contract. 


But counsel for the respondent relying upon certain documents contended 
that the intimation by letter dated August 13, 1958, was according to the terms 


2118 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : \ TY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


of the contract and the subsequent conduct of the parties established that the 
appellant did not treat the letter as determinative of the contract , and offered 
to complete the contract. Counsel for the respondent submitted that the appel. 
lant having declined to accept the termination of the contract, subsequent “ ill 
action on the part of the appellant dict not have the effect of either determining 
the contract or rcnunciation or abandonment of the contract . 


Counscl rclied upon the terms of the contract in support of the p ea that 
there was no rescission on the part of the Government or any intention to aban 
don the contract . He relied upon the terms of ci. 3 of the contract between the 
appellant and the Government that ; 


" In any case in which under any clause or clauses of this contract the 

contractor shall havc rendered himself liable to pay compensation 
amounting to the whole of his security deposit (whether paid in 
one sum or seducted by instalments or committed a breach of any 
of the terms contained in clause 19 - B , the Divisional Officer, on be 
half of the Governor General of India , shall have power to adopt 
any of the following courses , as he may deem best suited to the 

interests of Government: — 
( a ) To rescind the contract (of which rescission notice in writing to the 

contractor under the hand of the Divisional Officer shall be con 
clusivc evidence ) , and in which case the security deposit of the 
contractor shall stand forfeited , and be absolutelv at the disposal 

of Government; 
(b ) To employ laboul paid br the Public Works Department and to 

supply materials to carry out the work , or any part of the work 
debiting the contractor with the cost of the labour and price of 
the materials (of the amount of which cost and price a certifi 
cate of the Divisional Officer shall be final and conclusive against 
the contractor ) and crediting him with the value of the work 
done , in all respects in the same manner and at the same rates 
as if it had been carried out by the contractor under the terms of 

his contract ; 
( c ) To measure up the work of the contractor , and to take such part 

thereof as shall be unexecuted out of his hands and to give it to 
another contractor to complete, in which case any expenses which 
may be incurred in excess of the sun which would have been 
paid to the original contractor , if the whole work had been exe 
cuted by him shall be borne and paid by the original contractor 
and may be deducted from any money due to him by Government 
under the contract or otherwise , or from his security deposit or 
the piocecds of sale thereof, or a sufficient part thereof. 


The thrce conditions mentioned in cl, 3 of the contract merely indicate the 
action which the Government may tale if the contractor commits default. If 
the conditions of the contract are not fulnlled it is open to the Government to 
rescind the contract and to forfcit the deposit , or to allow the contract to remain 
outstanding and to complete the work departmentally as if the contract remains 
outstanding and charge the contractor with all the cxpenditure incurred ( or com 
pleting the work or to rescind the contract and to appoint another contractor 
to complete the unexecuted work 

The sequence of events may be examined to determine, whether after the 
intimation dated August 13 , 1958 the contract remained outstanding By letter 
dated July 23 , 1958 Ext, D - 1 the Director Gencral of Archaeology wrote to the 
Superintendent, Department of Archaeology , Bhopal that a joint inspection of 
the work done by the appellant at the site had let him to believe that certain 
course of action should be taken in the matter and he suggested that ( 1 ) the con 
tractor may be informed that he was llable to pay certain some of money ; ( 2 ) 
that the contractor should be informed that he was not to proceed with the work ; 
and ( 3 ) that the remaining work , which may include the heightening of the 
Burj by not more than 3 feet. filling up its interior and rencleiing ils top water 
tight, may be done by departmental labour. The Archaeological Department 
clearly abandoned the project of incrcasing the height of the Burj upto 48 as 
originally intended ; it was satisfied with raising the height of the Burj uplo 
35 ft. only . The Director General of Archaeology intimated that the Govern 
ment did not intend to remain bound by the terms of the contract and he was 
terminating the contract . 


510 301)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : M4Y 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2119 

S S 

- - - - - 

-- - - 
Ay letter dated August 13 , 1958 , Ext. D - 11, the Superintendent, Department 
vf Archaeology , 1 role to the appellant that he was liable to pay for cement and 
stone supplied and unless the too s supplied to him were returned to pay the 
cost of the tools also . The appellant was called upon to deposit the amount de 
inded and the letter procneded to state . 
" Furth more, you are hereby informed that you have not to proceed 

with the work ny more 
By letter dated June 27, 1958, the Superintendent, Department of Archaeology , 
Addressed a inemorandum to the appellant in continuation of the letter dated 
August 13 , 1958. reiterating that the cost of cement and stones may be reimburs 
ed and the tools may be returned . The appellant vas inforincd that he will be 
paid for the cost of R . C . C . work done by him ," but that he was bound to rectify 
the defects in the work cxecuted by him , as pointed out at the site. 

By letter dated July 19, 1959, the appellant wrote to the Superintendent, 
Department of Archaeology , that he was willing to carry out the orders regard 
ing the repairs to the Buri and that arrange nenis may be made to send the " Work 
In - Charge" at the site so that the work may be done according to his instruc 
lions He also stated that he liad never refused to comply with the orders , By 
letter dated September 27 , 1959, the appellant again reiterated his desire to rec 
tify the defects pointed out to him . 

It appears , however , that nothing concrete was done, and on April 12 , 1961, 
the appellant s lawyer addressed to a letter to the Director Gencral, Department of 
Archaeology , asserting that the appellant had completed his " part of the work 
wha12057 entirely " soll that he was shown certain deitcts which he had also 
1 -moricot, but when lie appellant demanded payment for the work done the 
Departinent asked him to do certain other things which were not to be done by 
Inn , Ile de!lcd that this work done by him was defective. He also stated that 
if the defects vcre not in ‘ imated to bin in writing and their photographs were 
not supplied within él nonth from the l eceipt of the letter , it will be presumed 
that there were no crfccts in work done and that he will be fintitled to veceive 
the full amount for the r ork donc . 

This correspondence clears cvidence an intenlion to trcat the original contract 
as determined. The appellant way told that the amount payable for the work 

one by hini could only be paid to him if he returned the building materials 
and the tool supplied to him , and recutieù je drfeets pointed . The letters do 
2101 ( sidence injutir. Cintiact : they clo r llint the contract was treated 
as determined. 

After Apill 1 ? 1961, there is on the recourt no correspondence between the 
appellant and 11 e Government. Tlie Governnent had claimed damages against 
The appellant for uciective work executed bv lum and for return of coitain mate 
rial , supplied and the va ue of the tools and had called upon the appellant to 
carry out the repairs The appellant s claill was that he was entitled to pay 
ment for the worl: vonc hy him , and that he had carried out the repairs . The 
security deposit had not been returncd to the appellant, nor had he been paid 
the amount claimed by him . 

The amount alleged to be due by the appcllant on account of defective work . 
manship and for the value of the materials supplied to him has also not been 
demanded by the Government. Failure to settle the respective claims does not 
tidence an intention to keep the original contidct subsisting. For more than 
5 years 9 months the appellant and thic Government of India have not taken 
steps for settlement of their respective claims. The silence was evidence of 
acquiescence 117 the abandonment of the contract, and not of a subsisting contract. 
Even if the demand that the defects pointed out in the work executed by the 
appellant be repaired and the offer made by the appellant to carry out the repairs 
establish a contractual relation inaction for nearly six years on the part of the 
Government and the appellant is evidence of abandonment of the contractual 
re ation , 
The learned Trial Judge observed in his report in paragraph 33 that: 
“ No paper " hatsoever , either from Bliopal Omice or Dchi Office lias been 

produced 011 record by the parties to this litigation showing that 
the Gi011111 ont expresselv b917 doned this part of the work at ary 
time iftcr thc l iwyer s notice dated Apil 12. 1961 W ] Sliri Atam 
Das Alen luis nonination paperi January 19 , 1967. So there was 
no express abandonment on thin part of the Government as far as 


2120 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 (PART II--- 

. - - * 
this part of the incomplete work is concerned . But the position 
seems to have been altered because of the attendant circumstances, 
conduct of the parties and inordinate delay during which neither 
party insisted on the performance of this part of the incomplete 

work ." 
The learned Judge concluded : 
" Accordingly where, as here , neither party has insisted on the perform 

ance of this part of the work , namely , the rectification of the defects 
for more than 5 years which is undoubtedly an inordinate length 
of time, it is reasonable to infer that the parties i. e . the Govern 
ment and Shri Atam Das have mutually abandoned its performance 

beforc Shri Atam Das filed his nomination paper ." 
The two letters dated July 23 , 1958 and August 13 , 1958. clearly evince an inten 
tion on the part of the Government to determine the contract , and the demand 
for rectification of the defects did not evidence an intention either to keep the 
original contract outstanding or to enter into a fresh contract for carrying out 
the repairs in the work already executed . Even if insistence upon rectification 
of the defects be treated as an offer , and the willingness of the appellant to 
carry out the repairs be treated as acceptance of the offer , studied inaction for 
nearly six years by the appellant as well as by the Government in our judg 
ment leads to an inference of abandonment. We accordingly agree with the 
finding recorded by the High Court on the second issue. 

The appeal is allowed and the order passed by the High Court set aside. The 
respondent will pay the costs in the Trial Court as well as this Court including 
costs of the hearing for recording findings on the issues. 

(Sd.) J. C . Shar . J. 

( Sd ) A . N . GROVER, J. 
Dated , the March , 11, 1969. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No 1706 (NCE ) or 1967 
(Appeal under S . 116 - A of the Representation of the People Act 1951 from the 

Judgment and Order dated the 23rd October 1967 of the Madhya Pradesh 
High Court (Indore Bench ) at Indore in Election Petition No. 43 of 1967 . 
Atamdas son of Jiwan Das Jatav , resident of Hem Singh -ki-Parade , 

Lashkar P . O . Lashkar, Gwalior - Appellant. 


Versus 


Suriya Prasad son of Shri Halliam , resident of 91, Khedapati Colony, P .O . 
Gwalior - - Respondent. 

Dated the lith March 1969 
CORAM : 

The Hon ble Mr, Justice J. C . Shah . 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice A N . Grover. 
For the Appellant- -Mr. S . V . Gupte , Senior Advocate ( M / S Rameshwar 

Nath and Mohinder Narain , Adyocates with him ). 
For the Respondent-- Ms G N . Dikshit, R . N . Dikshit and D . Goburdhan , 

Advocates . 
The Appeal above-mentioned being called on for hearing before this Court 
on the 17th and 18th days of February 1969 upon hearing Mr. S . V . Gupte Coun 
sel for the Appellant and Mr. Gopinath Dikshit Counsel for the Respondent the 
Court took time to consider its Judgment and the appeal being called on for 
Judgment on the 11th day of March 1969 this Court in allowing the appeal 
doth order ; ( i ) that the Judgment and order dated the 23rd October 1967 of 
the Madhya Pradesh High Court ( Indore Bench ) at Indore in Election Petition 
No. 43 of 1967 be and are hereby set aside and in place thereof an order dig 
missing the said Election Petition No. 13 of 1967 Aled by the Respondent herein 
in the said High Court be and is hereby substituted ; ( 2 ) that the Respondent 
herein do pay to the Appellant hercin his costs of Election Petition No. 43 of 


SEC . 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2121 

- - - - = 

= 
1967 incurred in the Madhya Pradesh ( Indorc Bench ) at Indore and the costs of 
this appeal incurred in this Court as well as the costs of the hearing in the 
Madhya Pradesh High Court ( Indore Bench ) at Indore for recording findings on 
issues framed by this Court s Order dated the 20th March 1988 ; ( 3 ) that the 
costs of this appeal incurred in this Court by the Appellant herein be taxcd by 
the Taxing Omcer of this Court and this Court doth further order that this 
order be punctuallv observed and carried into execution by all concerned , 

Witness thc Hon ble Mr. Mohammad Hidayatullah , Chicf Justice of India at 
the Supreme Court, New Delhi this the 11th March 1969 . 

( Sd ) M . P . SAXENA, 

Deputy Registrar , 


IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JỤRISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No . 1706 (NCE ) OF 1967 
( Appeal under section 116A ( A ) of the Representation of the People Act 1951 

from the Judgment and order dated the 23rd October , 1967 of the Madhya 
Pradesh High Court at Indore ( Indore Bench ) in Election Petition No . 43 of 
1967). 
Atamdas son of Jiwan Das Jatay, resident of Hem Singh -ki- Parade 
Lashkar P .O . Lashkar , Gwalior — Appellant. 

Versus 
Suriya Prasad son of Shri Hariram resident of 91, Khedapati Colony, P . O . 
Gwalior - Respondent. 

Dated the 20th March , 1968 
CORAM : 

Hon ble Mr. Justice J C . Shah . 
Hon ble Mr. Justice G . K . Mitter . 
For the Appcllant - M2. N . C . Chatterjec , Senior Aclvocate, (Ms Ramesla 

war Nathi and Niohinder Narain Advocates with him ) . 
For the Respordent - Nr. D . Goburdhan , Advocate. 
The Appcal ahoc-mentional being called on for hearing before this Court 
011 the 7th day of Marel 1968 upon hearing M1, N . C . Chatterjee , Counsel for 
the Appellant and Mr, D . Gobudhan Counsel for the Respondent the Court took 
time to consider it Judgment and the Appeal being called on for Judgment on 
the 20th day of March 1968 this court doth order ( 1 ) that the case be and is 
hereby remitted to the Madhya Pradesh High Court Indore Bench , Indore with 
the direction that the said High Court do record its findings after affording an 
opportunity to the parties herein to lead evidence on the following issues : 
( a ) Whethcı the work undertaken by the appellant under the contract 

dated February 25 , 1954 had been completed before January 19 , 1967, 

departmentally or through other contractors? . 
( b ) If the work was not completed on January 19 . 1967 has the project in 

respect of the incomplete work been abandoned ? 
( c ) If the project was not abandoned , was it intended to get tlie same 

completed through the appellant under the terms of the contract 

dated February 25 , 1954. 
( 2 ) That the said High Court shall take up the hearing of this case with the 
leust practicable delay and record its findings on the three issues referred to 
in clause one supra within a period of one month from the date on which the 
sald High Court enter s upon the enquiry and shall submit the evidence together 
with its findings on the said three issues to this court and this court doth further 
order that this order be punctually observed and carried into execution by all 
concerned . 

Witness the Hon ble Mr. Mohanımad Hidayatul ah Chief Justice of India at 
the Supreme Court , New Delhi this the 20th day of March , 1968. 

( Sd .) M . P . SAXENA , 

Deputy Registrar . 


helt the Andal, ahol c-mention. D. Goburdhan. Avocates with him (M 


[PART 1 - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


2122 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 
" - " - - - - - - - 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATJ JURISDIC TION 

Civil. APIEAL No. 1708 OF 1967 
Atam Das - Appellant. 


Versus 


Suriya Prasad - Respondent, 

JUDGMENT 
Shah , J. 

At the last general elections the appellant Atam Das was elected to the Lok 
Sabha from the Morena Reserved Constituency No . 1 . The respondent filed an 
election petition challenging the clection of the appellant on the ground that the 
latter was not qualifcd to stand as a candidate for election in that he had a sub 
sisting contract for execution of works undertaken by him in the course of his 
business as a building contractor with the Central Government on the date on 
which the nomination paper was Aled and when he was declaied elected . Tlic 
High Court of Madhya Pradesh upheld the contention and set aside the election . 

The appellant is a building contractor and his name stood entered in the list 
of approved contractors of the Central Government. On February 25 , 1954 the 
appellant entered into a contract for “ repairing work of Ratnawali Burj Raisen 
Fort" with the Department of Archaeology , Government of India , at Bhopal. The 
total value of the contract was Rs. 37 ,012 / -. The appellant deposited a sum of 
Rs. 1, 850 / - as security deposit for due performance of the contract . The work 
under the contract was not completed within the period of three months stipulateil 
for completion . For the work done by the appcllant till March 31 , 1956 , he was 
paid Rs. 27, 656 / 9 / -. The record is silent as to whether any work was done by 
the appellant in pursuance of the contract after March 31 , 1956 . In the petition 
it was averred in paragraph 9 that the contra t of the appellant with the Central 
Government dated February 25 , 1954 " subsists and exists at present" . In reply 
the appellant denied the plea and assorted that he had not suffered any disquali 
fication . The appellant stated before the Court that he did not execute any work 
in connection with Ratnawali Burj after he completed its work in 1956 . The 
appellant admitted that no payment in addition to the payments made till Maich 
31, 1956 , was made, or that the account was otherwise settlecl 11e admitted ulso 
that he had not completed the work within the stipulated priiod . 

The High Court held that there was no evidence that the contract which was 
not completed by the appe lant was abandoned by implied arianagement, or WES 
discharged by any action on the part of the Central Government. The High 
Court in paragraph 33 of their judgment summarised the conclusions as follows: 
" . . . . . . it must be held that the (appellant ) did not fully perform the con 

tract in question (repniring work of Ratnan ali Burj Raisen Fort) 
entered into by him on 25th February , 1954 till today and that the 
same has not been terminated or discharged in any of the manners 
known to law . I, therefore, hold that the said contract subsisted on 
the date of the Aling of the nomination paper on 19th January , 1967 
and its scrutiny and also on 23rd February . 1967 when the election 
result of the constituency in question was declared . In fact, it sub 

slsts even today ." 
Correctness of that view is challenged in this appeal. 

Section 7 (b ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , defines " disquali 
fied " as meaning " disgualified for being chosen as , and for being , a member of 
either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council 
of a State " . A person is disqualified by s . 9A , from being a member of the Logis 
lature so long as there subsists a contract entered into by him in the course of 
his trade or business with the appropriate Government for the supply of goods 
to , or for the execution of any works undertaken by , that Government. The 
appellant did enter into a contract on February 25 , 1954 for " repairing work of 
Ratnawali Buri. Raisen Fort " with the Central Government, and the work under 
taken by him was not completed till March 31, 1956 . But from that circumstance 
alone an inference does not arise that there subsisted a contract at the date of 
filing of the nomination paper of the appellant so as to disqualify him from being 
elected a member of the Parliament. The respondent however relies upon cvi 
dente documentary and oral in support of the plea that the contract dated Fch 
Fuary 25 , 1954 , remained subsisting till the relevant dates. On June 20 , 1957. a 


Sec. 3, 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 1891 2123 

-- - - - = - = - = = - - 

- - - - - - 
letter was addressed to the Director General of Archaeology in India , New Delhi, 
Ty the Superintendent of Archaeology , Central Circle , Bhopal, in which it was 
complained that the work undertaken by the appellant was incoroplete and was 
found to be defective and in view of the adverse comments made by the Archaeo 
logical Engineer the work was discontinued and was still incomplete . On Decem 
ber 13 , 1957, a circular was addressed by the Director General of Archacology in 
India , New Delhi, to all Circle Superintendents in which it was stated in para 
graph - 5 that in view of certair circumstances stated therein , " from the next Anan 
cial year all works will be executed departmentally except" — ( 1 ) original works 
when departmental stafl are not readily available ; ( ii ) supply of niaterials where 
necessary : and ( iii ) very exceptional cases of repairs to monuments , where the 
Director General is personally satisfied that it is in the interest of the Depart 
ment that the work should be executed through contract. On July 23 . 1951 
the Director General of Archaeology in India , in a letter addressed to the Super 
intendent, Department of Archaeology . Central Circle , Bhopal, stated that " a joint 
inspection of the work of Atma Das, Contractor ( appcllant ) at the Ratnawali Burj 
at Raisen in the company of Archacological Engineer and yourself has led me to 
believe that the following course of action should be taken in the matter : " In 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of the letter , which are important, it is stated ; 
" 2. Thic contractor should be told categorically that he is not to proceed with 

the work . 
3 . The remaining part of the work , which may include the heightening of 

the Burj by not more than 2 ft., Alling up its interior and rendering 

its ton watertight may be done hy departmental labour. 
The appellant wrote a letter to the Superintendent, Archucсlogical Depart 
ment, on August 27 , 1959 in rrplv to a letter dated August 11, 1959, that a part 
of the work entiusted to hun had been done departnıentally and that so far as 
the defects pointcrl out in the work done by him were concerned , the work was 
donc in the presence of and according to the instructions given to him by the 
person authorised by the Department, and that a contractor who worked accord 
ing to instructions would be in a position of difficulty when he was told after 
wards that the work was defcetive when it was in truth " duc to the defects of 
officials . The then stated . 
" Mv work was - ll alone bren inspected and approved and after a long 

time it is being declared defective due to defects of the work donie 

dcpaitmentally . 
I want with all sincerity to finish the said work as caily 5 possible but 

for doing it following essentials to be complied with ; 


On the record there is no correspondence afier that lettei which itas a bearing 
on the completion of the contract or it . discharge or abandonnent. It is true 
that there is no completion certificate issued in favour of the appcllant as it obvi 
ously could not be issucd , and the security deposit has not been returned to the 
appellant. There is no admission by the appellant that he has done any work 
thereafter , nor is there any evidence on the record that the appellant was even 
called upon to complete the contract. The burden of proving the charge of dis 
qualification or corrupt practice in an election dispute lies heavily upon the person 
who makes that charge, and the charge inust be established by cvidence which 
is beyond reasonable doubt. 

K , M . Srivastava — the only witness who could have thrown some light on 
the further progress of the work has been the least helpful. The witness was 
working as Deputy Superintendent, Archaeological Survey of India , at Bhopal since 
March 1 , 1966 . According to him the repairs of the olal monuments were done 
by his Department and the work was being done departmentally since the isžue 
of the Circular dated December 13 , 1957. He deposed that he had brought the 
file relating to the " repairing work of Ratnawali Burj " and after referring to that 
Aile he stated that upto March 31, 1956 , Rs. 27.656 / 9 / - were paid to the appellant. 
In answer to the question whether the contract had been completed by the con 
tractor, hc replicd : " I was not staying at Bhopal at the relevant time. However , 
there is a letter in Ale dated 28th June, 1957 Ext. P - 5 , which indicates that the work 
was not complete in 1957 till 30th June 1957, and it also says that the work car 
ried out was defective. I do not know whether the work has been completed or 
not by now , because he yond this letter Ext. P - 5 I know nothing about this con 
tiact." He further stated that the security deposit of the contractor is generally 
released after the completion of the work to the satisfaction of the Department 
and his rccord did not show that the security in connection with the contract had 
Vecn released . He also did not know if any balance and how much was still due 
lo or from the appellant. 


2124 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 (PART II 

- - - : : - 
A plea of disqualification under s . 9A requires proof that a contract was enter 
ed into by the candidate for election in the course of his trade or business with 
the appropriate Government, and the contract was subsisting at the time of no 
mination . The evidence on the record to prove that the contract dated February 
25 , 1954 was subsisting is inconclusive. 

But the learned Judge of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh who tried the 
petition was of the view that in the absence of proof of discharge of contract for 
breach or abandonment, it must be inferred that the contract was subsisting . To 
enable us fina ly to decide this appeal, we are of opinion that there should be 
more definite evidence on that question . We direct that the record be sent down 
finmediately to the High Court, and the High Court be directed to record findings 
on the following issues : 
( 1 ) Whether the work undertaken by the appellant under the contract 

dated February 25 , 1954 , had been completed before January 19 , 

1987 , departmentally or through other contractors ? 
( 2 ) If the work was not completed on January 19 , 1967, has the project in 

respect of the incomplete work been abandoned ? 
( 3 ) If the project was not abandoned, was it intended to get the same com 

pleted through the appellant under the terms of the contract dated 

February 25 , 1954 ? 
Parties will be at liberty to lead evidence on these issues. The High Court will 
tike up the hearing of this case with the least practicable delay and record find 
ings thereon vithin a period of one month from the date on which the High 
Court enters upon the enquiry, and submit the evidence together with the 
findings on these issues to this Court. 

(Sd .) J . C , SHJII, J. 

( Sd ) 0 . K . NITIIR , J. 
New Delhi, 
Dated , March 20 . 1988 . 

[ No. 82 /MP / 43 /67. ) 


New Delhi, the 8th May 1969 
S . O . 2011. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Represcntation of the People Act, 1950 , the Election Cominission of 
India In consaction with the Government of Bihar , hereby nominates Shri Prem 
Prasad Nayya ex - officio Secretary to Government, Political (General and Trans 
port) Departu zent, as the Chief Electoral Officer for the State of Bihar from the 
date he lake ofer charge vice Shri Venkatesh Narain . 


[No. 151 / 3 / 69.1 

By Order, 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Sery . 


The front , 8 


1969 


To go 2012. - 14 graffaty aff48 , 1950 FT ETT 13- 01 ZTUTTT 
( 1 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए भारत निर्वाचन आयोग बिहार सरकार के परामर्श 
से राजनैतिक ( सामान्य तथा परिवहन विभाग में सरकार के पदेन सचिव श्री प्रेम प्रसाद नय्यर, को 
श्री वेंकटेश नागयण के स्थान पर उनके कार्यभार ग्रहण करने की तारीख में बिहार राज्य के लिए 
मुख्य निर्वाचन आफिसर के रूप में एतद्द्वारा नामनिर्देशित करता है । 

[4194T 154, 3 68.) 

Tau , 
के . एस . राजगोपालन, मचिव । 


Sec . 3 (11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2125 


New Delhi, the 25th April 1969 
S . O . 2013 . - In pursuance of section 116C ( 2 ) (b ) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, the Election Cominission hereby publishes the Judgment pro 
nounced on the 8th April, 1969, by the Supreme Court of India , New Delh , in 
Election Petition No. 10 of 1967. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JUNISDICTION 

CIVIL APPI AL NO . 1576 (NCE ) OF 1968 
Appeal under Section 110 - A of the Representation of the People Act 1951 from 
the Judgment and Order dated the 16th April 1968 of the Madhya Pradesh High 
Court at Jabalpur in Election Petition No . 10 of 1967. 

Shrimati Sahodrabai Rai, aged about 48 years , widow of Shri Murlidhar Rai, 
agriculturist, resident of village Karrapur, Tahsil and District Sagar, MP 
Appellant. 

Versus 
1 . Shri Ram Singh Aharwar aged about 27 years son of Shri Ganpat Lal 
Aharwar resident of Purbiyau Tori, Sagar, Tahsil and District Sagar M . P . 

2. Shri Churaman , aged about 50 years , son of Shri Ramle , resident of Silar 
P . O . Deori, Tahsil Rahli, District Sagar , M . P . 

3 . Shri Sunder Lal, aged about 30 years , son of Bakkal, resident of Muhal 
No. 14 , Sadar Bazar , Sagar , M . P . - Respondents . 
CORAM : 

Dated , 8th April 1969 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice J . C . Shah . 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice V . Ramaswami. 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice A . N . Grover . 
For the Appellant. — Mr. G . N . Dikshit Advocate. 
For Respondent. — Mr. P . Ram Keddy, Senlor , ridvocate M / s. S . S . Parekh 

and S . S . Khanduja , Advocates with hira 
The appeal above -mentioner being called on for hearing before this Court 
on the 23th car of March 1969 upon hcaring Mr. Gopinath Dikshit Counsel for 
the appellen : Counsel for respondent No . 1 not being called upon to argue, res 
pondents Nos, 2 and 3 1101 appearing either in person or by counsel though served 
and the appeal having been set down ex -parte as against the said respondents the 
Couit took me to consider its judgment and tlięa ll being called on for judg 
ment on the 8th day of April 1969. This Court Doth Order : ( 1 ) That the appeal 
above -mentione . be and it hereby dismissed ( 2 ) That there shall be no order as 
to costs of this appeal in this Court and this Court Doth Further Order that this 
ORDER be punctually observed and carried into execution by all concerned . 

Witness the Hon ble Mr. Mohammadi Hidayatullah Chief Justice of India at 
the Supreme Court, New Delhi, this the 8th day of April 1960. 

( Sd .) M . P . SAXENA , 

Deputy Registrar , 
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

Civil Appeal No. 1676 of 1968 
Smt. Sahodrabai Rai 

Appellant 

Vs. 
Ram Singh Aharwar and Ors 

Respondents. 

JUDGMENT 
Shah , 

The appellant and the three respondents were candidates at the elections held 
in February 1967 for a seat in the Lok Sabha from the Scheduled caste consti 
tuency No . 24 , Sagar . In the State of Madhya Pradesh . The first respondent polledi 


226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


1 , 12 ,943 votes and was declared elected , the appellant polled 1. 12 .676 votes. The 
appellant then Aled a petition in th e High Court of Madhya Pradesh for setting 
aside the election and for an order that she be declared elected 

The High Court by order dated September 21 , 1967, held that the petition did 
not coply with the provisions of s . 81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act. 
1951. This Court in Civil Appeal No . 1698 of 1967 set aside the order of ine High 
Court and remanded the case for trial on the merits . Evidence was len led be 
fore the High Court. The High Court again dismissed the petition . The appellant 
has appealed to this Colirt against that order . 
T he contentions urged in support of the appeal are 
( 1 ) that there was no falr trial of the petition because the Trial Judge had 

Issued a notice requiring the appellant to show cause why she should 
not be committed for contempt of court for submitting ill application 
to the Chief Justice of the High Court for transfer of the proceeding 

to another Judge for trial; 
(2 ) that the first respondent resorted to a corrupt practice in that the Jan 

Sangh party of which he was the accredited candidate got printed a 
pamphlet Ext. P / 1 and the first respondent, his agents and workers 
circulated the pamphlet which made an appeal to the voters in the 

name of religion ; 
( 3 ) that the votes polled in favour of the appellant were wrongly rejected 

on the ground that instead of the seals in red ink they 1: cre found 10 
Dear seals in blue ink , and her application for recount was also un 

lawfully rejected : and 
(4 ) that the Arst respondent set afloat a false rumour that düroits were 

likely to attack the village Hardwani within the constituency on the 
day of polling and on that account in large number of voters either 
did not go to the polling station or returned to their village without 

casting their votes. 
These contentions may be considered seratim . 


After two witnesses were examined on her behall, the appellant submitted an 
application to the Trlal Judge , in which she stated that she ciesirci to move the 
Chief Justice of the fligh Court for transfer of the case for trial to arother 
Judge. This application was inade by her without consulting the lawyers appear 
ing on her behalf. Her lawyers made a statement before the Court that they did 
not approve the contents of the application and sought permission to withdraw 
fron the case . The appellant then stated that she was unable to proceed with 
the examination of the witnesses and asked for an adjournrent. The Court 
granted the adjournment u11d asked the appellant lo arrange for examination of 
the witnesses on the date of the adjourned hearing. The learned triu ] Judge ther 
after issued a notice upon the appellant requiring her to show cause why she 
should not be committed for contempt. On March 23 , 1968 , the appellant made a 
statement that she will not examine seven of the witnesses included in the list 
of witnesses and wanted to examine six of the remaining witnesses. The case 
stood adjourned till March 27 , 1968. The trial then proceeded , the appellant 
having engaged the services of another counsel. The notice requiring the appel 
lant to show cause why she should not be committed for contempt was discharged 
on April 5 . 1968. The learned Judge observed that there was little doubt that 
The application " made by the appellant on March 22, 1968, stating that she woull 
move the Hon ble the Chief Justice for getting the case transferred was " con 
pletely misconceived " , as she must have known that such an application was in 
competent, that the previous application was made by the appellant on account 
of a mistaken view , and that since by another application dated .3pril 4 , 1968 . 
the appellant had tendered an unconditional apology to the Court, no further stops 
need be taken against her . 

Counsel for the appellant contends that throughout the course of the proceeil 
ing in the High Court, berause of the threut to commit her for contempt, the 
appellant was unable to lead evidence and was unable to exanine all the witnesses 
who supported her case , and that the advocates appearin !! or her bcholl withdrev 
from the case and she had to engage another advocate . The application for trans 
fer of toe proceeding from the Judgc to whom the case was allotte was without 
doubt misconceived , but it would have been more consistent with the digrity of 
the Court to ignore that application inade by a litigent who was practicaliv illi 
terate . We do not however think that there is any ground for holding that the 


Sec. 3 ( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2127 
= 

- 

- - - -- 
appellant hay unable to prosecute her election petition . There is no reason to 
think that she declined to examine seven witnesses because of the pendency of 
the notice to take proceedings in contempt. The appellant was able immediately 
to secure the nervices of another lawyer and the proceeding was conducted wlthout 
the appellant being cleterred in any manner by the pendency of the proceeding for 
taking content proceedings against her . We do not think that any ground is 
made out lor setting aside the Judgment of the High Court on this ground 

It is the case of the appellant that the Jan Sangh party had publisheri 
pamphlet Ext P / 1 , and the Arst respondent, his agents and workers distributed 
the pamphlel amongst the voters . The pamphlet Ext. P / 1, reads as follows 
" Beware Decention 

Beware 
Dreadful anl astounding attack on your religious sentiments. 
An impression showing a pair of bullocks being slaughtered by a sword 
* During the 19 years of Congress Rule , 24 crores of cows, bullocks, Calves. 

and sacred bulls have been killed , 
* Even on this day 30,000 animals of the cow species are being slaughtered . 

in the sacred land of Bharat, 
* In Madhya Pradesh thousand ol bullocks are being killed every dar 
* The Congress wants to continue slaughtering of bullocks. 
Help ply: ically , financially and heartilly to seek banning of cow -slaughter . 
Note - Your vote should only go to those who are honest, lovers of Indian 

culture and devotees of cow . 
SAIVADALIYA GORAKSIIA MAHABIYAN SAMITI, BRANCH DEORI 

KALAN , 
The High Court was of the view that there was 110 evidence to prove that the 
pamphlet was printed at the instance oť the Jan Sangh party . In the painphlet 
it is stated that it was published at the instance of " Sarvadahya Gorakslied Maha 
biyan Samiti, Branch Dcori Kalan ” . The High Court also held that there was no 
cvidence to prove that the first respondent or his agents and workers distributed 
the pauphic The High Court l urther held that in any event the pamphlet 
could not be said to amount to a corrupt practice within the meaning oť s 123 oť 
the Act It is unnecessary for us to consider the evidence in support of the case 
of the appellant that the Jan Sangh party was responsible for publication ol the 
pamphlet anri that the first respondent or his agents and workers had oi - trilted 
copies of the pamphlet omong the voters, for , it has been hled by this court in 
Pandit Shreekrishna Selot v . Ramcharan Puneri ( ? ) in respect of a pamphlet 
which was in terms identical with the pamphlet Ext. P / 1 , that the printing on 
circulatie of the painphlet did not amount to committing a corrupt practice witi 
in the meaning of s 123 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 
Ilavini regard to this judgment, counsel for the appellant has conceded that he is 
unable to substantiate his case that any corrupt practice was committeri even 
assuming that the pamphlet was printed at the instance of the Jan Şangh party 
and distribution of the pamphlet Ext P / 1 by the first respondent or his agents 
and workers proved . 

The third contention has no merit either . The appellant contenderi tha : at 
certain polling statlons votes were rejected because ilter the stock of red ink 
supplied to the officers at those polling stations was exhailstand , in the seals on 
the ballot papers, instead of red ink blue Ink was used . The appellant also Claim 
ed that whereas the ballot papers in her favour were rejected because the scal 
markings were made in blue ink , other ballot papers bearing similar narkings in 
favour of the first respondent were accepted . At the time of counting , the hallot 
papers with bluc ink seals were , it appears, kept apart, but later on the rilection 
of the Returning Officer all those hallot papers were accepted . No objection was 
raised at the time of counting about any discrimination . But two applications 
were subiritted therefter by Gai a Singh Rat on behalf of the appellant In 
the first application it was states that 10615 ballot papers were wrongly rejected 
and those sereial ballot papers, il accepted , would have gone to swell the votes 
in favour of the appellant It was therefore requested that a recount of the re 
jccted hallot popers may be ordered . In the second application it was statel 
that the blue ( lik ballot papers which hari been rejectory in the counting of votes 
of the Bln Legislative Assembly constituency within Sagar Lok Sabha Reserve 

- - - - - - 
(1 ) C . A . No 978 of 1968, decided on January 21, 1969 . 


2128 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891. PAKT II 

= = = 
Constituency inay be included in the recount, Besides in the " Khurai Legislative 
Assembly Constituency many ballot papers had been rejected unnecessarily " : 
therefore , the rejected ballot papers of Khurai and Bina constituencies may also 
be included in the recount. The Returning officer passed a reusored order re 
jecting the applications for recount. He observed that he had asked the appli 
cant to give specific grounds for rechecking the rejected ballot papers or for a 
l ecount, but the only ground submitted was that " a very large number of ballot 
paper s Tore rejected as invalid , and they may be re - scrutinised or recounted ” . 
The Returning Officer then observed that before the counting was taken up , it 
was explained to all the candidates , their election agents and the counting agents 
present in the premises to bring to his notice specifically any instance of rejection 
of a ballot paper by the Counting Supervisors , or the Assistant Rcturning Officers 
who were entrusted with the scrutiny of the ballot papers, if they were not con 
vinced about the decision taken by them ; that the appellant was present or both 
the days of counting and practically throughout the duration of counting and was 
moving about in the premises , but neither she, nor her counting agent Ganga 
Singh Rai, brought to his notice a single instance of improper rejection of any 
ballot paper by the Counting Supervisors or by the Assistant Returning Officer ; 
that full facilities and opportunities were given to the candidates, but no com 
plaint was made ; and since all opportunities were given , no case was made out 
for reviewing the position and that no case was made out for le- scrutiny or 
IC - counting of the ballot papers at that stage . 


Evidence was led at the trial by the appellant, Ganga Singlı Raj her counting 
agent, and Dr. Ishwardass the Rcturning Omcer was examined on behalf of the 
Returning Officer , The Returning officer said that there was not a single 
ballot paper which was rejected on the ground that blue ink instead of red ink 
was used in the scals . He admitted that in the rejected ballot papers there were 
found some ballot papers which had the mark of seal in blue ink , but the rejection 
of such ballot papers was not on the ground that seal was in blue ink but on 
other grounds. It is admitted by the appellant that she had appointed three 
counting agents and that she was also personally present at the time of counting 
of the votes. Neither the appellant nor her counting agents raised any objection 
at the time when the counting of votes took place . The Tiigh Court regarded the 
evidence of Dr. Ishwardess as reliable, and on a review of the evidence held that 
It did not establish that any valid votes of the appellant were irnproperly rejected 
or that there was any discrimination practised in the counting . 


An application was made before the High Court for ordering inspection of the 
ballot papers . The High Court directed that the application may be considered 
later when the last witness of the appellant was examined . By the final order 
the Iligh Court recorded the grounds for rejecting the application for inspection . 
The High Court was of the view that no case was made out for ordering inspec 
tion or a recount. After carefully considering the evidence of the appellant, 
Ganga Singh Rai and Dr. Ishwardass Returning Offcer , we do not think that there 
is any ground for holding that votes were rejected on the ground that blue Ink 
instead of red ink was used in the seals on the ballot papers , or that there was 
any discriminatory treatment between the appellant and the first respondent in 
the counting of votes . 


Counsel for the appellant contended that in an election petition , arising in res 
pect of the same constituency . to set aside the election of a successful candidate 
to the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly , the Returning Omcer had directed 
a partial recount, and this Court directed a general scrutiny of the rejected votes, 
and the same procedure may be adopted in the present case also . In Rajaju v . 
Brij Kishore Pater s and Others ( 2 ) this Court directed that the votes rejected at 
the counting at the election be scrutiniged under the supervision of the Deputy 
Registrar of this Court. It does not, however , appear that in that case it was 
because of the use of the blue Ink instead of red ink , In that case, the Returning 
because of the use of blue ink instead of red ink . In that case , the Returning 
Omcer did order a recount, but after a partial recount was made, the recount had 
been abandoned . We thought it necessary in appeal against the order of the High 
Court dismissing the election petition to call for the rejected ballot papers and to 
scrutinize them , But that is not a ground for holding that the same procedure 
should be adopted in the present case . 


(2 ) C .A . No. 1181, of 1968 , decided on February 25 , 1969 , 


Sec . 34ļi)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2129 
= = = - - - - -- - - - - -- ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

There was clear evidence before the High Court indicatin , ilial no ballot 
paper was rejected on the ground that different ink was used , ar the conduct 
of the appellant and her agen s is consistent with that view . 

We may turn to the last contention . It was the case of the appellant that 
OPC Uitamchandi Jain a Jan Sangh worker had spread a false ruli 2012 that in the 
villaec Hardwani on the polling day dacoits were going to take advantage of the 
absence of voters from their homes and to commit Iacoities and io set Are to 
their house , and that as a result of this rumour sone voters in the constituency 
l cturned without casting their votes and others did not at all go to the polling 
station , because of the apprehenson that dacoits may illtack the illcge in their 
absence. Uttamchand Jain died after the polling day but before the trial of the 
election petition It is true that information was received at the Banda Police 
Station by the Station House Officer about the rumour of a dacity at Hardwani, 
The Staion Holise Officer has cleposed that soon after the report was received . 
he was asked by the Deputy Superintendent of Police to reach Ilardwani village 
He found that “ the rumour was based in a mistaken view as soine of the members 
of the Special Armed Force who liad reached the village Hardwary on the date of 
election were taken by mistake to be the dacoits " . He deposed that he made en 
quiries , but he was unable to ascertain the name of the person responsible for 
spreading the rumour. There is on the record no clear evidence that Uttamchand 
Jain was a supporter of Jan Sangh party , nor that he was a lonker for the 
appellant. There is also no reliable evidence that Ullaichani Jain had sct 
afloat the rumour, The case of the appellant was supported bv her testimony 
which was purely hcarsay and the testimony of her witness . Prabhudayal 
Tiwari, P .M . 17 , which also suffered from serious infirmity . The evidence was 
also conflicting and the High Court declined to place any reliance upon the evi 
dence . No serious arguments have been raised before us which would justify 
us in taking a diffeient view . 


The appcal fails and is dismissed . Having regard to all the circumstances 
of the cane, we direct that there will be no order as to costs in this Court . 

( Sd . ) J. C . SHAH, J 
( Sd .) A . N . GROVE . , J. 

( Sd.) V . RAMAŞWAJI, J . 
New Delhi; April 8, 1969. 

[ NO 2:2 , MIP / 10 / 67.] 


New Delhi, the 13th May 1969 
S . O . 2011 . - In pursuance of clause (b ) of sub section ( 2 ) of section 116C 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
publishes the judgment pronounced on the 1st April, 1969 , by the Supreme Court 
of India in Civil Appeal No. 1566N ( E ) of 1968 Alert by Shri Jugal Kishore Sinha 
against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna, rated the 3rd 
May, 1968 , in election petition No. 23 of 1967 . 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No . 1566 (NCE ) OF 1968 
Appeal under Section 116 - A of the Representation of the People Act 1951 from 

the Judgment and Order dated the 3rd May 1968 of the Patna High Court 
in Election Petition No. 23 of 1967. 
Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha son of Shri Sadhu Saran Singh , resident of 

Village Dumeri Kala , P . S . Majorganj, District Muzaffarpur 
Appellant. 

Vs. 
1. Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav, resident of villagc Chak Vahila, P . S . 

Sitamarhi, District Muzaffarpur. 
2 . Shri Jai Kishore Narain Singh , Village and P . O . Bhasar Mochha, P . $ . 

Sitamarhi, District Muzaffarpur . 
3 . Shri Bhagwan Sao, resident of Mohalla Kot Bazar, Sitamarhi, District 

Muzaffarpur. 


2130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / 1YAISTHA 10, 1891 


[PART II 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- 


4 . Shri Satyanarain Prasad , Mchalla Shankar Chowk Sitamarhi, District 

Muzaffarpur. 
5 . Shri Satyanarain Sharma, Villuge anl PO Sharwara , Vid Barharwa, 

Distt. Muzaffarpur. 


6 . Shrimati Diweshwari Devi, w / o . Sliri Alokik Baba , resident of Hajipur. 

Distt Muzallarpur - Respondents . 


Dated the 1st April , 1969 
CORAM ; 

The Hon ble Mr. Justice V . Ramaswami. 

The Hon ble Mr. Justice A . N . Grover. 
For the Appellant - M / s. B . l . Singh and D N . Misra , Advocates . 
For the Respondent No. 1-- Mr, D . Goburdhan , Advocate. 


THE APPEAL above-mentioned being called on for hearing liesore this court on 
the 21st day o1 March 1969 UPON hearing Mr. B . P . Singh Counsel for the 
Appellant and Nr. D . Goburdhan Counsel for Respondent No . 1 Responrients 
Nos, 2 to 6 not appearing either in person or by Counsel though scrvcel and the 
appeal having been set doun pr -parte as against the said Respondents the Court 
took time to consider its Judgment and the appeal being called on for judgment 
on the 1st dar ii sprll 1969 THIS COURT DOTH ORDER 
(Scal) 

SUPREME COURT 
CIVIL APPELLATE JUHISDICTION 
ČIVIT APPEAL No, 1566 (NCE ) OF 1968 
No . 

Or 196 
Th . Jugal Kishore Suha - Appellant 


Versus 
Nagendra Prasad Yadav and Ors — Respondent. 
PATNA HIGH COURT ELECTION PETITION NO . 23 OF 1967 

ORDER D SMISSING THE APPEAL WITII COSTS 


Dated this the 1st April 1969 

SHRI B . P . SINGH 
Advocate for on record for the Appellant. 

Sink D GOBURDHAN , 
Advocate for on record for the Respondent V . 1 . 


( 1) That the Appeal above-mentioned be and is hereby dismissed 


( 2 ) That th : Appellant herein Jo pay to Respondent No. 1 herein his costs 
oľ this appeal incuried in this Coult ( 3 ) THAT the costs of this appeal incurier 
by Respondent Voi herein in this Court he taxed by the Taxing Officer of this 
Court AND THIS COURT DOTII FURTHER ORDER that this ORDER be punc 
tually observed and carried into errution by all concerned 


Witness the Hon ble Mr. Mohammad Hidayatullah , Chicf Justice Ol Iurlich uit 
the Supreme Couit. New Delhi this the 1st day of April, 1969 . 


( Sd .) 11. P . SAXEN 4, Dy Registiar. 


SEC . 3 ( ii) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2131 
= = = = 

ASPAS 
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JCRISDICTION 

CIVIL APPEAL No . 1566 OF 1968 
Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha 

Appellant 
Versus 
Nagendra Prasad Yadav and Ors . 

Respondents 
JUDGMENT 
Ramaswami, J . --- Thę appellant filed an election petition in the Patna High 
Court for setting aside the clection of respondent No. 1 to the Lok Sabha from 
Sitamarhi constituency on the following grounds: 
( 1 ) that there were irregularities in the counting of votes by which validly 

marked ballot papers in favour of the appellant were improperly re 
jected and invalid ballot papers marked either of respondent No . 1 
or other respondents were counted as valid votes of respondent No. 1 ; 

and 
( 2 ) the respondent No. 1 got a false pamphlet defaming the appellant 

printed and distributed himself and got distributed through bls 

workers at different localities . 
The respondent No. 1 entered appearance and controverted the allegations 
made by the appellant. 

The parliamentary constituency comprised of six assembly constituencles as 
follows: 

(1) Sitamarhi Assembly constituency No. 67 . 
(ii) Bathanaha Assembly constituency No. 68 . 
( ill) Sheohar Assembly constituency No. 70 . 
( iv ) Majorganj Assembly constituency No. 71. 
( v ) Sonibarsa Assembly constituency No. 72; and 
( vi) Sursand Assembly constituency No. 73. 
The dates of poll in the differcnt Assembly constituencles were as follows: 


Date of Poll 


Name of Assembly 


17 -2 - 1997 
19 - 2 - 1967 
21 -2- 1967 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. Sheohar 
. Sursand and Sitamarhi 
. Majorganj, Sonbarsa and Bathanaha 


Besides, there was repoll on 23rd February , 1967 at booth Nos. 16 and 43 of 
Bathanaha Assembly constituency . 

The counting of ballot papers was held in Sitamarhi Court premises on three 
dates as follows: - . 


Date of Counting 


Assembly Constituency 


Asomma 


- 


- . . 


IR . 


23- 2 - 1967 


. 


, 


. 


, 


. 


Sursand 


. 


. 


. 


. 


24- 2- 1967 
24 - 2- 1967 
25-2- 1957 
25 -2 -1967 
25 -2 -1957 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. Sheohar 

Majorgani 
. Sitamarlıi 
. Sonbarsa 

Bathanasa 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


On 26th February , 1967 the postal ballots , which were four in nuniber , were 
counted and on the same day the reguits of the election were declared by the Re 
turning Officer , who was the District Magistiilie of Muzaffarpur . It was anrounced 
that the different candidates had secured the following number of votes :- - 

(1) Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha (Petitioner ) . . . . . 1,40 ,820 Votes 
( ii ) Syri N13171ra Prasad Yadav (Respondent No . 1) . . . 1,41,337 , 
( iii) Shri Sai Kishore Narain Singh (Respondent Ho. 2) . . . 34,004 
( iv ) Shri Bhagwan sao (Respondent No. 3) 

. 31,469 
(v ) Shri Satyanarain Prasa : (Respondent No . 4) . . . 12 ,740 , 
(vi) SriSatyanarain Sharma (Rcspondent No. 5) . . . . 4,018 

Accordingly respondent No . 1 who was found to have secured the majority of 
valid votes, was declared to have been elected . Immediately thereafter the appel 
lant who had lost the election by a margin of 517 votes flled a petition for recount 
of the ballot papers but the petition for recount was rejected . 

In the course of the trial a petition was filed by the appellant for inspection 
of the ballot papers . But by his order dated the 23rd April, 1968 the trial Judge 
rejected the petition . 

Substantially two issues arose for determination in the case: ( 1 ) whether the 
results of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidates have been 
materially affected by the improper reception , refusal or rejection of any vote or 
the reception of any vote which is void , and whether the petitioner has received 
the majority of valid votes ; and ( 2 ) whether respondent No . 1 or any other 
person with his consent or any of his agents other than his election agent, acting 
in his Interest , committed a corrupt practice within the meaning of sub -s . ( 1 ) 
of section 183 of the Representation of the People Act , 1961 which states ; 
" The publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with 

the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement of 
fact which iy false , and which he cither believes to be false or does 
not believe to be true, in relation to the personal character or con 
duct of any candidate , or in relation to the candidatu . e , or with 
drawal of any candidate , being a statement reasonably calculated to 

prejudice the prospects of that candidate s election " . 
Both Issues were decided against the appellant by the trial Judge and the 
election petition was dismissed on 3rd May , 1968 . 

In support of this appeal it was contended in the first place that the trlal 
Judge was not justified in refusing to grant inspection of the ballot papers . It 
was said that 21 witnesses wcre examined on bchalf of the appellant to prove the 
irregularities alleged in the election petition . But the oral evidence was rejected 
by the trial Judge on the ground that no document was produced by the appel 
lant to corroborate the oral evidence . The trial Judge has pointed out that in 
the absence of any contemporaneous document it was Inconceivable that the wit 
nesses should have retained in their memory the serial numbers of booths in 
respect of which they claimed to have seen particular categories of irregularities . 
In his petition Exhibit No. 3 to the Assistant Returning Officer the grievance of 
the appellant was that on account of insufficient light and the continuance of 
counting till late hours, his counting agents could not attend to the courting 
properly as they were also feeling sleepy. It was, therefore, improbable that the 
counting agents of the appellant could have noticed such large scale irregularities 
as alleged and should have retaincd these irregularities in their memory till the 
time of drawing up of the election petition . Some of the witnesses like P . W . 5 
and P . W . 11 said that they had prepared notes of the Irregularities. P . W . 11 also 
said that he had filed a petition on the 23rd February , 1967 to the Assistant 
Returning Officer describing the various irregularities noted in the course of 
counting . But no steps were taken by the appellant to get the alleged petition 
of P . W . 11 dated the 23rd February , 1967 proved on his behalf in the course of 
the trial. Similarly P . W . 12 claimed that he had handed over a rough note of 
the alleged irregularities to the appellant and the appellant also Aled a petition 
before the Returning officer on the 24th February, 1967 Incorporating specific 
details of the irregularities in the counting of ballot papers. P . W . 18 also gave 


SEC , 3( ii) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 

2133 
= = 

= = = 
similar evidence. But the evidence of P . W . 11 and P . W . 12 is not consistent with 
the evidence of the appellant himself. Another witness P . W , 23 claimed that he 
had fled not less than six protest petitions before the Assistant Returning Officer 
at the stage of counting on the 231c , win and 25th February, 1967. But none 
of these petitions was proved on behält vi the appellant. Written petitions were 
also claimed to have been flied by P .Ws, 1, 2 , 7 , 9 , 15 and 17 with alleged copies 
of some of them made as enc osures A , B , C and D to the election petition . But 
nonc of them has becn exhibited in the case. Several witnesses claimed that they 
had informed the appellant about the various categories or irregularițies in the 
matter of counting of ballot papers . It is not possiole to rely upon this evidence 
because in the petition , Exhioits 2 an : ated the 26th February , 1967 and 25th 

ebruary , 1967 made to the Returns vitice . , ihe appellant had not mentloned 
details of the irregularities . I th evidence of witnesses was true the appellant 
would not have omitted to mention in lae petition , Exhibit 2 , all or niost of the 
particulars which he has mentioned in sub -paragraphs ( a ) to ( h ) of paragraph 
27 of the election petition . The trial Judge was, therefore, not impressed with 
the oral evidence of the witnesses examined by the appellant on this part of the 
case and we see no reason to take a different view . 


We proceed to consider the next question arising in this appeal, namely , 
whether the offending pamphlet was published by or on behalf of respondent 
No. 1 by distributing its copies at the various places mentioned in Schedule VI 
of the election petition . Eight witnesses were examined by the appellant in sup 
port of his case on this point. They are P .Ws. l , 17 , 19 , 24 to 28 . P . W . 1 has 
spoken of the distribution at Piprahi, Barharwa and Bairganla . P .Ws. 17 and 25 
gave evidence about the distribution at Parihar. P .Ws. 19 , 24 , 26 , 27 and 28 
have spoken about the distribution at Ranjitpur, Akhta , Riga Bazar, Majorganj 
and Sitamarhi bus stand respectively . No evidence has been adduced to prove 
the distribution at Sursand or at Domra . It is important to notice that the wit . 
nesses have been drawn from three different lists . P .Ws. 1 and 17 belong to the 
Arst list of 57 witnesses which appellant Aled on 21st November , 1967; P . W . 9 
belongs to the second list of 12 witnesses Aled on the 28th February , 1968 and 
P .Ws. 24 to 28 belong to the third list oť 14 witnesses Aled on the 8th April , 1968 . 
The appellant came out with the third list after 22 out of his 249 witnesses had 
given their evidence. It is obvious that little reliance can be placed on the 
evidence of the witnesses figuring in the second and third lists . 


It is true that P .Ws. 1 and 17 appcared in the Arst list of witnesses Aled on 
the 21st November , 1967. P . W . 1 deposed about the distribution of copies of the 
offending pamphlet at three different centres Bairgania , Piprahi and Barharwa. 
In his examination in chief P . W . l stated that he had seen the pamphlets being 
distributed among voters by Surandra Prasad Yadav , Yogendra Prasad , Ram 
Narain Rai Yadav and two clerks of Sitaniarhi Cane Growers Co - operative Union . 
But the evidence of P . W . 1 is not consistent with the case set out by the appel 
lant in Schedule VI according to which distribution is alleged to have been made 
at Barharwa by Chandrshwar Yadav of village Chak Mahila whom P . W . 1 has 
not named . Admittely P . W . I never nude a report to any governmental authority 
with regard to the distribution of the defamatory pamphlet. The other witnesses, 
P . W . 17 said that on the 18th February , 1967 he had seen Yogendra Rai Yadav 
distributing the offending pamphlet in Parihar Bazar. P . W . 17 Is a resident of a 
village about 25 miles from Parihar. He too conceded that he had made no re 
port to any public authority about the distribution of the offending pamphlet. 
Again the circumstance that P . W . 29 took no action in conncction with the 
alleged distribution of pamphlet at any time before the Alling of the election peti 
tion shows that none of his workers had actually seen it being distributed any . 
where . The trial Judge found that the witness examined by the appellant on this 
aspect of the case were wholly unreliable . We see no reason to differ from the 
estimate of the evidence made by the trial Judge. 


For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the High Court dated the 3rd 
May, 1968 is correct and this appeal is dismissed with costs . 


April 1, 1969. 


( şd .) V . RAMASWAMI, J. 

(Sd.) R . N . GROVER , J. 

[No. 82 / BR / 23 / 67. ] 


2134 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [PART II — 
= = = - - = - = - : : - - - - 

- - - - ----= = 
New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2016 . - In exercise of the powers confer . .. d by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13A of the Representation of the People Act , 1950 , the Election Commission , in 
consultation with the Government of Pondicherry , hereby nominates Shri Ch . 
Ramakrishna Rao, Law Secretary to the Government of Pondicherry, as the Chicf 
Electoral Omcer for the Union Territory of Pondicherry from the date he takes 
over charge and until further orders vice Shri G . Gopalakrishnan , 

[ No. 154 / 21/68.) 

By Order , 
A N . SEN , Sęcy . 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
S . O , 2016 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hereby cincels Its notification No . 434 /MD / 68 dated the 30th November , 1968 . 

(No. 434 /MD / 68 .) 

By Order , 
V . NAGASUBRAMANIAN , Under Secy . 


75 faceft , 1995, 1969 


PASO 2 ) 17 .- - TTF sfafaf16a FETFT94 , 1951 # 7 ETCT 22 FT 3T - TTT 
( 1 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग कर ते हुए निर्वाचन आयोग प्रपती अधिसूचना संख्या 43.4 
afastarG/ 68 fait 30 TTFIT, 1988 TTTTTT TEFCITI 

TAGIT 434/ af47a13 /68 ] 

TISTO, 
ato FITATTUTA , TATATI 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2018 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of article 77 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Authentication (Orders and other Instruments ) Rules, 1958 , published with 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , 
No . S . O . 2297, dated the 3rd November , 1958 , namely : - - 

1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Authentication (Orders and other Instru 
ments ) Second Amendment Rules, 1969 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Officia 
Gazette. 

2 . In rule 2 of the Authentication ( Orders and other Instruments ) Rules , 
1958, in clause ( c ) , after the words " the Director of Personnel, National Cadet 
Corps ;" , the following shall be inserted , namely : - - 
" and , in regard to grant of Commissions to individual officers , their retire 

ment or release or termination of their Commission , 
(i ) in the Army, Military Secretary , Deputy Mllitary Secretary , or 

Assistant Military Secretary, 
( 11) In the Navy , Director of Personnel Services, Deputy Director of Per 

sonnel Services , or Assistant Director of Personnel Services, anc 


- 


- 


Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 2135 

- - - - 

- - - -- - - 
( lil) in the Air Force , Director of Personnel (OMcers ) , Deputy Director 

of Personnel (Omcers ) or Assistant Director of Personnel 
(Omcers ) " . 

[No. 3 / 3 /49 Pib. I. ] 
K R . PRABHU , Jt. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 20th May 1969 
$ . 0 , 2019 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 22 
of the Delhi Development Act, 1957, the Delhi Development Authority has replaced 
at the disposal of the Central Government the land described in the schedule 
below for placing it at the disposal of the land and Development Officer , Ministry 
of Works Housing and Supply , Government of India , New Delhi for further 
transfer to Anandpur Trust Society Delhi for Religious purposes , with effect from 
22nd February, 1966 the date of handing over the possession . 

SCHEDULE 
Plece of land measuring 721- 22 sq yds. bearing Khasra Nos . 201 , 169 / 36 
situated in Ahata Kidara Estate . 

The above piece of land is bounded as follows: - - 
NORTH : Qabristan (Grave Yard ) . 
SOUTH : Pucca Road . 
EAST · Nazul Land . 
WEST · M . M . Road, Qabristan . 

[ No . S2 (45 ) 55.) 
M . L . MONGIA , Secy . 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXcise : PATNA 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

Parna , the 8th April , 1969 
S . O . 272 ) - I7 exorcisc of the powers conferred upon me under Rules 15 and 16 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 , and in superheggicn of the Notificatkr No. 3 - Tob 64 dt . 10 - 12 - 64 . I 
hereby notify that no declaration will be necessary unc er tlc aid Illes in rcescct of urmar ufac 
tured tobacco grown in the areas not exceeding 12 Ares and cured in quantities rot exceedirg 60 
Kgs ., as specified in Colunas 2 and 3 of the subjoired schedule . 


The Notification will have effect from the tobacco crop - year 1968 -69 . 


ANNETURE 


Sl. No. Name of the Revenue District 


Area declared excmpted 


I 


2 


3 


. Thewhole of the District, 


Do . 


ovauw 


I Patna 
2 Shahahal . 
3 Gaya 

Ranchi 
Hazaribagh 
Dhanbad 
Singhbhum 

Palamau . 
9 Bhagalpur 


Do . 
Do . 


Do 


Do. 


: 


: Whole of the District EXCEPT village Babhangawan . 


(PART II 


2136 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 

- = - - 
SI. N ). Name of th : Revenue District 

Arca declared exempted 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - 


I 


2 


- - 


- - 


IO $ 11thal Pargana . 
II Maghyr . . 


. 
. 


. Whole of the District. 
. The whole ofthe following Police Stations of the District 

1. Monghyr. 
2 . Jamalpis. 
3 . Surajgarh . 
4 . Monghyr Mufassil. 
5 . Kharagpur . 
6 . Tarapur . 
7 . Lakhisaral. 
8 . Buthec . 
9 . Shekhpura . 
Io . Barbigha. 
II , Jhajha . 
12 . Chakai. 
13 . Simultala . 
14 . Jamui 
15, Sikandra . 
16 . Lakhimpur . 
17 . Gogri, 
18 . Parbatta . 
19 . Chautham . 
20 . Khajaurla . 
21. Bakhari - Except village Şiswanikothi. 
22 . Ballja . Except villages 

(a ) Moughalsarai and 

(6 ) Raghunathpur ] 
23 . Cheria Bariarpur , Except ville g 8 

(a ) Manjhaut 

(6 ) Tara Bariarpur , 
24 . Alandi, Except villages 

(a ) Haripur 
(6 ) Jagia 
(c ) Baridințaha 

(d ) Chhoti Simraha. 
25 . Sinri Bakhtiarpur, except villages 

(a ) Paharpur 
(6 ) Tilathi 
(c ) Majhwa 

(d ) Rasoolpur, 
26 . Bckdapur, Except villages 

( a ) Kajari 
(6 ) Lalpur 
(c ) Tarha 
( d ) Parasmoni ] 
(e ) Beldaur 
( ) Kurban 
( 2 ) Balaitha and 

(h ) Tharihia 
27 . Teghra , Except villages 

( 12 ) Baro 
(b ) Hasanpur and 

(c ) Baſauni. 
The whole of the following police Stations 
of the District 
1 . Balrampur 
2 , Barsoi 
3 . Kadwa 
4 . Azamnagar . 


12 Purnca 


. 


. 


. 


. 


SEC, 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2137 


- - 


- 


Sl. No. None of the Revenne District 


Area declared exempted 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- -- - 


- 


-- 


- - 


- 


T2 


Purne - 0 . d . 


5 . Paisi 
6 . Sikti 
7 . Terhigach 
8 . Kechodaman 
9 . Jagbani 
to , Narpatar ) 
II . Ararla 
12 . Joki 
13 . Amaur 
14 . Punca Sada) 
15 . Marihari 
16 . Balit la 
17 . Andtija 
Iß . Dumaria village of Dhamdara P .S . 
19 . Futkauli of Rupauli P . S . 
20 . Kabaiya of Rupauli P . S . 
21. Pıran Kar of Rupauli P . S . 
22. Birania of Rupauli P . S . " 
23. Banı gara of Rupauli P . S . 
24. Kusana of Rupauli P . S . 
25 . Sondip of Rupaudi P . S . 
26 . Askatia of Rupauli P . S . 
27 . Sheikhupura Mllık of Rupauli P . S . 
28 . Bhaldaha Basa of Rupauli Police Station 
29. Teliari of Rupauli P . S . 
30 . Jabey of Rupauli P . S . 
31. Sotni of Rupauli P . S . 
32 . Bisaria of Rupauli P . S . 
33 . Brahmgyari of Rupauli P . S . 
34 . Pandit Basa of Rupauli P . S . 
35. Rampur Parihat of Rupali P . S . 
36 . Telaiha of Rupauli P . $ . 
37 . Mateli of Rupauli P . Ş . 
38 . Lakhnaur of Raupaul, P . S . 
39. Hardi Kol of Rupauli P .S . 
40 . Basantpur of Rupaulj P . S . 
41. Kolagachi of Dighal Baik P . S . 
42. Dogiya of 

De . 
43 . Talgachi of 

Do. 
44, Patnergatti of 
45 . Dubutola of 
46 . Dubu of 
47 . Kalopiof 

Ꭰ0. 
48 . Benglola of 

Do . 
49 . Mirch Bhitta of Do. 
50 . Laxmipur (Jamun 
ola ) of 

De . 
51. Sani Dahit hat of De. 
52. Khunitola of Do . 
53. Dargah Kanchan beri Do. 
54 . Baluadangi of Do. 
55. Palse of 
56 . Dakupara of 
57. Ghailaduba of 
58 . Sirghitari of 
59. Fauzdar Palsa of 
60. Kherabari of I ) , 
61. Baijnath Palsa of 
62. Kharkharia of 
63. Tikiniguri of 
64 . Hasnabad of 
65. Jagirpatti of 
66 . Pacre Muhi of 
67 . Dahi hat Kela Do. 
8 . Daaibhat khas Do 


Do. 
De. 
Do . 


Do . 
Dr . 
DO . 


DX 


Du 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


2138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


= 


Sl. 


Name of the Revenue District 


Area declared exempted 


No. 


12 Purica - ontd . 


Do . 


Do , 


67. Darga Basti ((Dahibhat ) of Dighal Bank P . S . 
70 , KlaiBali (Khur ) of Dighal Bank P . S . 
21. Baghru Basti of Dighal Bank P . S . 
72 . Tulsia gyantola of Dighal Bar k P . S . 
73. Ringuvani of Dighal Bank P . S . 
74 . M istafugadj of Dichal Bank P . S . 
75 . Gommara of Dighal B : nk P . Ş . 
76 . Aliganj of Dighal Bank P . S . 
77 . Bhirbieri of Dighal Bank P . S . 
78 . Kalmari of Dighal Bink P . S . 
79 . Daria of Forbesganj P . S . 
80 . Thirha of 
81, Bara of 

De 
82. Manikpur of Do. 
83. Barduna of Do. 
84. Simrana of Do. 
85 . Aurahi of Do . 
86 . Sani Aurani of Do, 
87 . Muar Gani of 
88 . M zapur of Do, 
89. Mirzapur 

Senarpetti of Do. 
90 . Mahua Gopalpur 
of 

Do. 
91 . Rangdana of Do. 
92 . Babi Pothia Do. 
93 . Ramai of 

Do. 
94 . Khawaspur of Do . 
95 . Gurmi of Do, 
96 , Bairgachi of Kishanganj P . S . 
97 . Simul bari of Da. 
98 . Gothira of Thakurga . ; P . S . 
99 . Kharibasti of Do. 
100 . Bohiagachi of Do. 
101. Ginsbingola of Do. 
102 , Khanks of 

Do. 
103 . Belbari of Do. 
104 . Bhakshalbhitta of Do . 
105 . Lemugari of Do , 
106 . Hithi tora of Do. 
107 . Dhol 1 :itta of Do. 
108 . Kaluzhat of Do. 
107. Dengiyachi of Thakurg ni P . $ . 
IIO . Goringhritta of Do . 
III . Binabori of 

Do. 
112 , Khaikharti of 
113 . Bakshar of Poihia P . S . 
114 . A uabari of 
115 . Taibpur of . 
116 . Nazirpur of 

Do . 
117 . Heli band of Do, 
118 . Koabo: i of 
119. Ammabari of 
120 , Dangibasti of Thakurganj P . S . 
121, Chenginari of Do. 
122 , Jamunjagal i of 
123 . Tabalritta of 
124 . Jhala of 

Dn. 
125 . Bhadrutti of 
126 . Karidangi of 
127. Patameri of 
128 , Dighali of 


Do . 


Do. 
De 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


Sec . 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2139 


- 


- 


Y 


: 


Șl. No. 


Name of Revenue District 


Areu declared exempted 


12 Purnia - - conld . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


129 . Manker o ? 

Da. 
132 , Balhan longi 

Du. 
131 , Dangerador of 

Do. 
132 . Mal Basti 

Do. 
133. sialangi of 
134 . Chauraligari of 
135 . Piparistlian of 
136 . Kalk danga of 
137. Balubarl of 
138. Kimartoti of 
119 . Gangabari of pothia P . S . 
140 , Chh10 . 1 chagi of 
141. Machhuabari of 

Do. 
142. Barsohagi of 
143 . Kadamgachh of 
144. Sitalpur of 

Do . 
145 . Babhanbasti of 
146 . Lonargara of 
147 . Palarlatta of 

Do. 
148. Pan isi of 

Do, 
149 . Ghior Gaon of Pothia P . S . 
150 . Pattalt hagha 

Do. 
151. Ramariapokhar 

Do. 
152. Mungibhitta of Thakurganj P . S . 
153 . Kakarmari 
15 . Hulţiuli 
155. Kondabhitta 
156 . Tulsibhitta 

Do 
157 , Kusiаr of Pothia 

P . S , 
158 . Jinglabhitta 

Thakurganj P . S . 
159. Jogitola 

Do. 


Do, 


Do . 


Do. 
Do, 
Do. 


13 


Sharsa 


The whole of the follwoing Police staticns : 

I . Madhepura P . S . 
2 . Sonebarsa Raj P . S . 
3 . Bangaon 


4 . Singhara West and the following villages of Udc 

kishanganj P . S . 
1. Kuşthan 
2 . Raniganj 
3 . Pararia 
4 . Gamail 
5 . Devail. 
6 . Jogiraj 
7 . Madhukchand 
8 . Motichuk 
9 . Rahi Jagatpur. 
10 . Josadih 
II . Baghra 
12 . Majora , 
13 . Karamat 
14 . Singa : 
15 . Mohanpur 
16 . Goalpara 
17. Araigat 
18 , Lakhanpur 
19 . Jhanjhari 
20 . Baluahi 
21 . Madheli 
22. Berahi, 


2143 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART 11– 


- 


. 


- . . 


. 


. - . - 


- 


Sl. No. 


Name of Revçnuc District 


Area declared cxempted 


2 


13 


Sahars& - contd . 


23. Madhuban 
24 . Jhalari 
25 . Gangora 
26 . Kishanganj 
27. Binigarha 
28. Ujjaini 
29 . Singarpur 
30 . Karanti 


14 Darbhanga 


The whole ofthe following Police Statiors : 


1 . Lauka 
2 . Harlakhi 
3 . Madhwapur 
4 . Ladania 
5 . Berauli 
6 . Bahera 
7 . Madhubeni 
8 . Benipatti 
9 . Jhanjharpur 
IO . Phulpares 
11 . Jalley 
12. Rosera P . S . excepting the follcw .rg villeges 

1. Belahi 
2 . Dudhpura 
3 . Pithadhobi 
4 . Birha 


13 . Singhia P . S ., Except the following villagcát 


1 . Jarauna 
2 . Bharajni 
3 . Dudhpuria 
4 . Phuis 
5 . Satha 
6 . Baghimara 
7 . Pal 
8 . New Toli 
8 . Girawra 
9 . Sagrain 
10. Bhaikhera 
II. Baruni 
12 , Fina 
13 . Salha Fina 
14 . Mehsat, 
15. Bujhama. 
16 . Musahi. 
17. Nom - Beg. 


14 . The following villages ofDarbhanga Sade P , S . : 

I . Lalganj 
2 , Poriadih , 
3 . Panchobh , 
4 . Farc anda. 
5 . Baghla . 
6 . Madhopura , 
7 . Nayatola . 
8 . Rajwara, 
4 . Auliabad , 
10 . Perichaka . 
11. Pokhar Bhinda. 
12 . Pator, 
13 . Deokuli, 


VELUU 


SEÇ , 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / IYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2141 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


I 


- 


- . . - 


. . . 


- 


- 


Si, No. 


Name o : Revenue District . 


Area declared exempted . 


14 Darbhanga - contd , 


Dc. 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do, 
Do . 
Do . 


14. Sahora . 
IS . Dcbifur. 
16 . Haralfatti. 
17 . Gharari, 
18 . Maksudpur, 
19 . Rustampur . 
20 . Bishanpur. 
21. Hanuman Nagar of Singhwara P . S . 
22 . Rampura of Do. 
23 . Thakania . 
24 . Kansi. 
25 . Singhwira, 
26 , Katasa , 
27 . Harpur Shyam of Warisnagar P . S 
28. Magina of 
29 . Jahangirpur (Kothia ) Do. 
30 . Madhuban Do . 
31 . Somna 
32 . Dhadh 
33 . Sibsingpur 
34. Sobhan . 
35 . Sobhan Bargaon Do . 
36 . Sobhan Basant . Do. 
37 . Bhore Jairam .. De. 
38. Bhore Shahpur 
39. Tehra Milki 
40 , Gudar Ghat 
41. Tengraha Do. 
42. Sripur Gahar Do . 
43 . Batar Toli 
44 . Ashopur 
45 . Govindpore 
46 . Sądukha 
47 . Fatehpore 
48. Gumla 
49 . Balipore of 

Warisnagar P . S . 
50 . Kapoor Patti Do. 
51. Nagar Basti 
52, Kishanpur Bakunth Do. 
53. Navtal 

Do. 
54 . Muzari 
55. Koila Kund 
56 . Beghumpore Do . 
57 . Mushepore 
58 . Kheri 
59. Dadpatti of Naugachia P . S . 
60 . Madaria 
61. Baika 

Do. 
62. Thengha Do. 
63. Tatuar 
64 . Phulwari Do, 
65. Mahiara of Baheri PS 
66 . Susari of Baheri P . S . 
67. Thathopur Do. 
68 . Kumbar Ranjit Do, 
69 . Belhi 
70 , Bakınandam 
71. Katrahi 

Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 
Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


ទំនំម៉ង់ដ៏ធំដ៏ទំនំដ៏ទំន់ន៍ន៍៩,ន៏ដ៏ធំនន់ដ៏ធំក្លឹនន់ន៍ន៍ដ៏ខ្ញុំដ៏ទំន៏ន៍ន៍ 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


2142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10, 1891 


[PART II 


şi. 
No, 


Nimc of R -venue District 


Area declered cxcmpted 


3 


- - - - 


14 Darbhanglord. 


villages of Manigachi Police 


Do, 


15 . The following 

Station : 
72. Mahia 
73 . Tatuar 
74 . liulwara 
75 . Dad Path 
76 . M daria 
77. Taddi 


Do , 


Do. 
Dr. 


IS. M izaffarpur 


The whole of ıhe following Police Stations 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


De. 


Do. 


I . Sonbarsa 
2 . Sursand 
3 . Sitamarhi 
4 . Bclsund 
5 . Majorgen 
6 . Hargania 
7 . Pupri 
8 . Katra 
9 . Runi Saidpur 
Io . Sheohar 
I ! , Bela 
12, Minapore 
13 . Baruraj 


Do. 


Do, 


Do. 


Do. 
Do , 


16 . Champaran 


Do. 
Do. 


The whole of the following Police Stations 
I , Sugauli 

Do. 
2 . Patahi 
3 . Raxaul 
4 . Adapore 

Do, 
5 . Chasahan 
6 . Dhaka 
7 . Govindganj Do. 
8 . The whole of Bettiah Sub Division , 


Do, 
Do. 


17 . Saran 


The whole of the following Police Stations of thc Dis 
trict, 

I . Manjhi 
2 . Siswan 
3 . Darauli 
4 . Siwan 
5 . Maiiwa 
6 . Guthani 
7 . Raghunathpur 
8 . And t 
9 . Ekma 
10 . Bhora 
II . Katia 
12 , Kurchai Kot 
13. Mirzaj 
14 . Basanpur 
15 . Mushrekh 
16 . Marhowrah 
17 . Baikunthpur 
18 . Chapra Town 
19 . Bhagwan Bazar 
20. Gorkha 
21, Soncpur 
22 , Parsa 


[NO . I-Job /69) 


SEC. 3 (11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2143 ; 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


Pain , the 17th April 1969 
9 . 0 , 2021. — The Exor sgion " 12 ( twelva) Areas " used in Notification No. 1 - Tob 69 /datçdi 
8th Avril, 1957 (Central Excisc )should be substituted by the expresii in “ 6 ( Six ) Ares " . 


[No.2 . Tob /69 ] 

TILAK RAJ, Collector . 
- - . 

- - - - - . 
BOMBAY CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Bombay, the 16th April 1969 
S . O . 2022 .- In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 173G ( 4 ) 
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby prescribe that in respect of the excis 
able commodities mentioned in column No. 3 of the list appended to this Notifica 
tion the raw material account should be maintained in respect of the principal 
raw materials shown against each in column No. 4 of the list . Each assessee 
governed by the Self Removal Procedure shall maintain from 1st April, 1969, 
the account of the principal raw materials in the form already prescribed under 
this Collectorate Notification Central Excise No. CER / 173G ( 4 ) / 1 / 1968 , dated the 
31st May, 1968 . 

2 . The assessees governed by the Self Removal Procedure shall also furnish 
the quarterly return in form R , T . 5 prescribed under Rule 55 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 , in respect of the relevant principal raw materials shown in 
the list appended . 

List of excisable commodities under Self Removal Procedure and names of their principal raw 
materials for maintenance of accounts and furnishing of returns. 


S. 


Tariff Item No. 


Description 


Names of Importa t Raw materials 


I I 
2 IA 
3 3 
4 4 II 
5 12 


6 13 
7 14A 
8 14B 
9 14 BB 
10 14C 
II 14 DD 


Sugar . . . . Sugar cane and /or Betroot 
Confectionery . . Sugar 
Tea . . . . Green Leaf 
Cigars and Cheroots. Unmanufactured Tobacco 
Vegetable non -cssential (1) Oil seeds 
Dils . 

(ii ) Oil Cake for Extraction plants , 
(111 ) Unprocessed V . N . F . Oil for processing 

plants . 
Vegetable Products. V . N . E . Oil. 
Soda Ash . . . Common salt. 
Caustic Soda . Common Salt , 
Sodium Silicate , , Soda Ash . 
Glycerine . . . (i) Soap spent Iye and /or sweet water Lye . 
Synthetic Organic Pro Chemical Compounds/compound having the 
ducts . 

optical bleaching property , such as sodium 
salt of Benzoyl Diamino Stilter c - Disul 

phonic Acid . 
Sulphuric Acid · Sulphur and /or Pyrites. 
Carbonic Acid Gas (1) Coke, or 
(Carbon Dioxide ) 

(11) Light Diesel Oil or 
(112 ) any other materials contain ng cartcra 

tęs used for coz production . 
Soap . . . . V . N . E . Oil or other fats including Oil and ) 

or soap stock . 
Surſacç Active Agen ! . The chemical compounded wliich is a Sur 

face Active Agent. 


12 
13 


14 G 
14 H 


14 


15 


15 


15AA 


2144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(Part II — 


- 


- - 


- 


= = 


= 


= 


= = 


= 


= = = 


= 


I 


2 


16 
17 


153 
16A 


18 


18 


* 19 


18 B 


„ 20 


21 


24 23 


Cellophane . . . Woodpulp. 
Rubber Products for La - Rubber Latex. 

tex Foam Sponge . 
Rayon and Synthetic 1. Stable Fibre Raw material of Celluksa 
fibre and yarn . 

origin Wood pulp . 
2 . Viscos yarn Wood pulp 
3 Yarn spun 0 .1 of stuple cellulosic fibre 

saple fit rc . 
4 . Nylon cor ir cui Carrol Caprola 
Filament 

cum (Mcrimer ) 
5 . Tarene sidple buic . Polyes er 
6. Torere cont nlcus Polynreichips 

filamcnt . 
7 . Cellulore Accra e yain Worc fulp er 
& libre 

Ethyl Alchol 
8 . Acrylic Fibre 

Acryl Nitreats 
Wooları yarn 

1. Wool to for worsted woollen yarn 
( a ) worsted 
(b ) Others 

2 . Raw Wool for others 

? . Old Wi ollen Fabrics etc. for shoddy wool 
Woollen Fabrics 

1. Woollen yain or 2. Grey fabrics (for prece 

ssing at ito .) 
Rayon or Art Silk Fabrics J. Yarn and /or 2 . Grey lubrics (lor process 

ing units ) 
Textile Fabrics Impreg - Fabricf . 

nated . 
Cement 

(i) Limestone & (ir) Gypsum 
Asbestos Cemnt Products . (i) Portland Cement & (ii) Asbestos. 
Iron in any crude form Iron ore. 
Steel ingots 

Iron orc and /or steel scrap . 
Copper and Copper 1. Copper ingote , or copper scrap or copper 
Alloys . 

2 . Gullies, (for rolling milly ). 
Iron & Steel Products . (1) Steel ir gols or 

(ii) Semi- finished steel or 
( til ) Scrap 

(iv ) For pipes - plates or sheets or skelo 

or strips or flats or billets . 
Zinc . 

1) Zinc ore or 
( ii ) Ingots and bars, or 

(111) Plates and sheets. 
Aluminium , . (2) Bauxite or 

(ii) Ingots and Bars or 
( 111) Scrap , or 

(iv ) Alumisium dross . 
Lead . 

, (i) Orcand /or ( ii ) scrap 
Tin plates ard Tinted Plates or sheets or strips 

sheets . 
Internal cumbston Engires ( @ ) Block Castins or (b ) Crark cases ( r ( c ) 

Nozzle holders and fuel pumps . 
Refrigerating and Air (1 ) Refrigerators compressors-Aliccrcitirets . 

Conditioning Appli 
ances and Machirery . ( 2 ) Compressors compressors - Block or rotor 

and stators 
(3 ) Condensors and Coffer 11 bir g 
( 4 ) Thermostats power element . 


25 26 


27 


26 - A 


ore , 


26AA 


29 26B 


30 


27 


31 27A 
-3228 


33 29 


34 29A 


2145 


SEC . 3( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 

- - - - - -- - - --- - - - -- - - --- - - - --- 


NU 


35 33 


17 32 


ElectricM OTS . : 1. Bearings 
Electric Bi feries and 2 . Stamp.ng for inanufacture of stators only . 

parts thereof 
I. Storage Baticries , Contaircrs 
2 . Dry Batteries 

Zinc or aluminium rods or pellets or containcis 
2 . Plates , .: 

, Lead ingots or scrap Lead ingcits or scrap 
4 . Consisters and cWeis. Hud ruler sliceis 
Electric Lighting Bulbs 

and Fluorescent light 
10g Tubes . 
(1) Bulbs 
(ii) Fluorescent Tubes ( Glasa Shells . 

Glass tube shells 
(iii ) Miniature bulbs | Metal caps 
Electric Fans 

Electric Motor 
Wireless receiving sets (* ) Valves or transisters and (b ) Gang conder 

sors. 
(i) Motor Vehicles (1) Enginç Blocks 

excluding tractors . 
( ii ) Tractors. 

( 2 ) I.C . Engincs. 
Gramophones , . Motor . 
Marches. . . . Potassium Chlorate 
Mechanical Lighters . , Body of lighters . 


38 33 
39 33A 


10 


34 


41 37A 
42 38 
43 39 


[No. CER / 173G ( 4 ) / 1 / 69. ] 

A . K . ROY, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COLLECTOR , CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE , 

AMRITSAR 

Amritsar, the 24th April 1969 
Amendment to Notification issued under Rule 15 & 16 of Central Excise Rules ; 
1944 under C . No . 1 ( 4 ) DC / 30 /8CE / 68 / Pt. II / 28041- 74, dated 30 - 10 - 68 by the Dy . 
Collector , Customs and Central Excise , Amritsar 

S . O . 2023. - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under rule 15 & 16 
of thc C . E . Rules , 1944, I hereby make the following amendment in the notifica 
tion , dated 30th October, 1968, issued under C . No , V74 ) DC / 30 /8CE /68 / Pt.II / 28041 
74 , dated 30th October , 1968 . 
For the words " All villagcs cxcept Moonsa , Bhopani, Kherikhasdar , 

Mubarakpur, Nagaon , Surati, Chhar , Kuroda , Jharli, Badli and 
Dadri " Occuring in Column 7 against Tehsil Jhajjar of Distt. Rohtak 
in Gurgaon Circle in the aforesaid notification , the following should 
be substituted , namely ; " All Villages except Moonsa , Bhopani, 
Kherikhasdar Mubarakpur, Nogaon , Surati, Chhar, Kuroda, Jharli, 
Badii, Dadri, Badsa and Rudia was ” . 

[ C . No. V (4 )DC / 30 / 8CE /68 / Pt. II.) 
N . N . ROY CHOUDHURY, Dy. Collector. 


inaccur occuring Laon Surati,pitchMoonsa , Bhopa 


THE MADRAS CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , MADRAS 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Madras, the 7th May 1969 
S . O , 2024 . - In exercise of the powers vested under Rule 233 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby direct that the manufacturers of Electric Motors 


2146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART 11 – 


. 14 . 


- - - - 


. . . . HP 
. . . . HP 


enjoying the rebate under the Government of India Notification No . 68 /80 - CE , 
dated 20th April, 1960, shall hereafter furnish the total quantity of HP of elec 
tric motors cleared by them on the reverse of each gate pass commencing, from 
the first day of each month so as to check the rebate enjoyed on the, Arst 100 
HP and on the next 100 HP in the following manner, 

( a ) HP of motors removed previously in the month 
(b ) HP of motors removed now under the Gate Pass 
( c ) Total of HP of motors removed 

. . . . HP 
In addition , the manufacturers of Electric Motors shall furnish a certificate in 
the RT - 12 Return rendered by them as indicated below : 
" Certified that the output of my/ our factory has not exceeded. 300 HP of 

Electric Motors in any one of the 12 months preceding the month 
in which the goods covered by this return have been cleared " . 

[ C . No. V ( 30 ) 3 / 7 /66 -CX . I.] 
A . R . SHANMUGAM , Collector . 


THE MYSORE CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE : BANGALORE 

CUSTOMS 

Mysore the 7th May , 1969 
S . 0 . 2025 In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section 34 of Sectice 2 of 11:e Cristch 
Act , 1962 (52 of 1962), the Collector of Central Excise , havirg tecn appoirted as Collectcri 
Customs, within the jurisdiction of the Mysore Central Excise Collectorate , Feret y assiers i 
the Officers mentioned in column I of the Table telcw lhe furcticss of ite " Picser Cfficer 
Teferred to in the various Sections of the Custcme Act, 1962 given in the correspordir g er 113, 
column 2 of the table . 


Taple 


Assistant Collectors of Customs and Central Excise 129(2 ). 
Superintendent of C . Ex., Mangalore /Karwar 21, 22(3 )(a), 22(3)(b ), 27(3 ), 28(1 ), 4 ; 
Circle . 

59 (3 ), 61, 63 (2 ), 64 , 67, 68, 72 ( 1), 72 (2 . 

73, 129( 1) & 142 ( 1)(a ). 
Superintendent of C . Ex ., Mangalore Port . 17 (3), 17 (4 ), 18 , 19 , 21, 22( 3) a ), 22 (3 )b 

27 (3 ), 28 ( 1), 31, 32 , 39 , 41 (3 ), 42, 45(: 
and (b ) , 47 , 48 , 51 , 54 ( I) , 54 ( 3 ), 59 (3 
60 61, 62, 63( 2 ), 64, 67, 68 , 69 ,72 ( I 
72 (2 ), 73 , 85 , 86 (2 ), 89, 97, 129( 1), 129( 2 

142 ( 1)( a) , 144 ( 1) and 149 . 
Inspectors and Sub - Inspectors of C . Excise i/c of 17 (1), 17 ( 3), 17(4 ), 18 , 19 , 30 ( 1), 31 , 3: 

the outport, viz ., Malpe, Coondapur, Har gar- 34 , 37 , 38, 39 , 41( 1 ), 41( 3 ) , 42, 43( 2 ) 
katta , Baindur , Majali, Sadashivagad , Karwar , & (b ), 46 , 47 , 50 ( I ) , 51 , 54 ( 1 ), 54 (: 
Binga , Chedia , Belikeri, Ankola , Gangavali, 60 , 62 , 68 , 69 , 77 , 79 ( 1) , 80 , 85 , 86 ( 2 
Tadri , Kumta , Honnavar , Manki, Murdesliwar , 89, 92( 1 ), 97 , 144 ( 1) , 145 and 149. 

Shirali, and Bharkal. 
Inspectors of Central Excise, Posted to Mangalore 17 (1), 30 (1 ), 34 , 37, 38 , 41(1), 46( I), 50( 1) 
Port . 

51, 54 ( 1 ), 77 , 79( 1 ), 80 & 144 ( I ) . 


Şub - Inspectors Posted to Mangalore Port, Karwar 37 ,38 . 

and Coondapur. 


- 


- 


- 


[No. VIII /48/9 /68-Cus.] 
M . C . DAS, Collector . 


Sec . 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


SEC. 202 CENTRAL SELETSCAUSE A Mav,1969 


2147 


CENTRAL EXCISE DIVISION : LUCKNOW 

SHOW CAUSE NOTICE 

Lucknow , the 15th May , 1969 
" To whom it may concern 

$ . O . 2026 . - Whereas cloves and Milk powder referred to in the allegation 
enumerated in the enclosed Annexure appears to be liable to confiscation under 
section III of the Customs Act , 1982. 

And whereas the owner concerned in view of the allegations contained in the 
said Annexure appears to be llable to penalty under section 112 of the Customs 
Act , 1962. 

Now , therefore , the owner concerned is hereby required to explain the matter 
and show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise , Lucknow in writing 
within one month of the date of issue of this notice why the seized goods should 
not be confiscated under section III ( d ) of the Customs Act, 1962 and why he 
should not be penalized under section 112 ( b ) of the game Act. 

The owner concerned should produce at the time of showing cause all the 
evidence upon which he intends to rely in support of his defence . He should 
also indicate in the written explanation whether he wishes to be heard in person 
before the case is adjudicated . 

If no causę is shown against the action proposed to be taken within ono 
month of the issue of this notice or the owner concerned does not appear before 
the adjudicating officer when the case is posted for hearing the case will be 
decided exparte on its merits 

ANNEXURE 
On recelpt of a secret information , the Preventive Inspectors of Central Excise 
Lucknow went to the N . E . Railway station , Charbagh , Lucknow on 24th March , 
1969 and got opened one parcel comprising of one case and bundles in the pre 
sence of two independent witnesses . From the said parcel, 21 kgs . of cloves con 
tained in three bundles and 3 .500 kgs. of milk powder contained in two packets 
were recovered . The cloves and the milk powder were seized by the officers of 
Central Excise in the reasonable belief that they have been brought into India 
in contravention of the section III of the Customs Act, 1962 and Import Trade 
Regulation , is there was no claimant for the same who could produce proof of 
their legal inport into India . 

The import of seized goods is prohibited ( except under a licence ) under sec 
tion 3 of the Import and export (Control) Act, 1947 as read with clause 3 of the 
Import (Control) Orders, 1955 . 

The aloresaid prohibition has been in force for a large number of years and 
the policy of issuing licences has been extremely restricted . 
The seized goods are dutlable also . 

[No. C . 163-VIII (Cus)( 15 ) Seiz / 69 / 7205. ) 

(Sd .) Illegible , 
Assistant Collector Central Excise Lucknow : 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COLLECTOR , CENTRAL EXCISE & LAND 

CUSTOMS, JAIPUR 

CORRIGENDUM 

Jaipur, the 17th April 1969 
S . O . 2027 . - In Notification issued under this office endorsement C . No . 
V ( 4 ) DC | 30 | 1|08 ITI 23752 -83, dated 6th December, 1968 , in respect of Ajmer 
Division , at page against Shahpura Sector, in Col. 6 S . No. 3 the name of yil 
lage Nangal Charla may be read as NANGAL CHECHEKA . 

[C . No. V (4 ) 30/1 /Int|68 |11.} 
A . SHANKAR , Dy. Collector . 


2148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / TYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II — 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, INTERNAL TRADE 

AND CO . AFFAIRS 


(Dopartment of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th May 1969 
8 . 0 . 2028 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the 
Industries (Development & Regulation ) Act, 1951 read with rule 8 of the Central 
Advisory Council (Procedural) Rules, 1952 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri R . P . Goenka to be member of the Central Advisory Council of 
Industries till the 3rd November, 1969, in place of Shri S . K . Ghosh , and directs 
that the following amendment shall be made in the Order of the Government of 
fadla in the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Depart 
nent of Industrial Development) No. S . O . 4044 dated the 4th Noveinber , 1967, 
as amended by No . S .O . 463 dated the 17th January, 1968 and No. S . O . 3600 / 
DRA / 5 dated the 21st September , 1968 , namely : 

In the said Order , for entry No . 28 , relating to Shri S . K . Ghosh , the following 
antry shall be substituted : 
" 26 . Shri R . P . Goenka, Chairman , Indian Jute Mills Association , Royal 
Exchange, 0 , Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta - 1." 

[ No. 1 (5 ) Lic .Pol /67. 1 
R . C. SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 9th May 1969 
S . O . 2029 , — In partial modification of the then Ministry of Industry (Indiary 
Standards Institution ) notification No. S . O . 1281, dated 3rd April, 1964 published 
In the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( 11) , dated 11th April, 
1964, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee per 
unit for Cement concrete pipes has been revised . The revised rate of marking 
fee, details of which are given , in the Schedule hereto annexed shall come 
Into force with effect from 1st February , 1968 ; 

THE SCHEDULE 


Product / Clans of Product No . and Title of Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Unit 


Marking fee 

per unit 


777 


(2) 


(3 ) 


( 5) 


I Cement concrete pipes IS :458- 1961 Specification for 

(with and without re - concrete pipes (with and without 
inforcement) 

reinforcement) 


Ore Metric 50 paise 

Tonne 


[ No. CMD / 13 : 10. 3 


S . O . 2030,- -- In supersession of the then Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
( Indian Standards Institution ) Notification No. S . O . 602, dated 10th April, 1958 
published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ), dated 26th 
April, 1958, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Mark for Central Concrete pipes has been revised . The revised design of the 
Standard Mark together with the title of the relevant Indian Standard and verbal 
description of the design is given in the Schedule hereto annexed , 

This Standard Marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
( CertiAcation Marks) Act , 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed there 
under, shall come into force with effect from 1st February, 1989 : 


Mac. 3(IN 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


2149 


THE SCHEDULE 


S1 Design of Product /Class of No. and Title of the Verhal description of the design 
No. the Standard Product 

Relevant Indian Standard of the Standard Mark 
Mark 


I IS : 458.). 


(3 ) 
Cement concrete IS : 458 - 1961 Specification The monogram of the Indian 
pipes (with and for concrete pires (with Ster ( a1c9 Institution . con 
without reinfor - and without reinforce sigling of letters IST, drawn 
cement) i wizi ment) 

in the exact style ard relativo 
proportions as indicated in 
column (2 ), the number de 
signation of the Indian 
Standard being superscribed 
on the top side of the mono 
gram as indicated in tho 
design , 


[No. CMD / 13 : 8 .) 


New Delhi, the 20th May 1969 
S . O . 3031. - In pursuance of sub -rule ( I) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Rules , 1955 the Indiar Siardarc s Irgjit ict locły i pufos 1181 t ] c Sierded 
Mark (s) design (s ) of which togeil er wuh the verbal description of the design (s ) and the title 
of the relevant Indian Standard (s ) are given in ite Sul ecuiel ejer at 1 EXC , late tee 11 recfed .) 

These Standard Maik ( s) for the purpose of the Indian Star dardo Institutiu (Certification 
Marks) Act , 1952 and the Rules ard Regulatior s framed thereur dei , shall come into fucc with 
cffect from the dates shown against each : 


THE SCHEDUI E 


Si. 
No. 


Design of the Product /Class No. erd Title Vertal description of the 
Standard Mark of Product of the Relevant Design of the Standard 

Indier Starcard 

! Maik 


Date of 
Effect 


(4 ) 


IS : 739 


Aluminium 
alloy wires 


IS : 739- 1966 Spe- The morogiem of the 16 May 1909 
cification for Indian Standards Ins 
Wrought alumi titution , consisting of 
nium and alu letters ISI , drawn in 
mirium alloys , the exact style and rela 
wire ( for gene tive proportions as indi 
ral engir eering cated in col. (2 ), the 
purposes) (Re sumber designation of 
vised ) 

the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of the mo 
nogram as indicated 
in the design , 


2 


IS : 2509 


Rigid (PVC ) 
non -metallic 
conduits 


R 


. 


TV 


IS :2509 - 1963 The monogram of the I May 1969 
Specification Indian Standards Ins 
for rigid non - titution , consistir g of 
metallic conduite letters ISI , drawn in 
for electrical the exact style and rea 
installations , tive proportiors as in 

dicated in col, (2 ) the 
number designation of 
the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of themono 
gram as indicated in 
the design , 


2150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II 


3 


IS : 3370 


Spıyzn ) nl- IS : 3392 - 1965 
nometer , Specification 
mercurial for sphygmo 

manometer , 
mercurial 


The monogram of the 1 May 1969 

Indian Standards Ins 
titution , consisting of 
lettrs " IST , drawn in 
the exact style and 
relative proportions as 
indicated in col. (2 ), 
the number designation 
of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of the 
monogram as indicated 
in the design . 


4 


IS : 3976 


Steel toe - cap 
for minery 
leather safety 
boots and 
shoes 


IS : 3976 - 1967 1 
Specification 
for safety rub 
ber - canvas 
boots for 
miners 


TOE - CAP 


The monogram of tho I Mav 1969 
Indian Standards Ing 
titution , consisting of 
letters ISI , drawn in 
the exact style and rela 
tive proportions 08 
indicated in col, 12 ), 
the number designa 
tion of the Indian 
Standard being super 
scribed on the top side 
and the words TOF 
CAP being subscribed 
under the bottom side 
of the monogram as 
indicated in the design . 


[No.CMD 13 :9 ) 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 


$ . 0 . 1038 . - In pursuince of sub -regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institu 
tion Certification Marka) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
the Indian Standards , particulars of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter , 
have been cancelled : 


THE SCHEDULE 


No and Title of the Indian Standard 

cancelled 


No , 


No. and Date of Gazette Notification in 
which Establishment of the Indian 

Standard was Notified 


(3) 


- V 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


I IS :445- 1964 Specification for water hose of $ . 0 . 2134 dated 18 June 1965 published in 

rubber , high pressure with woven re - the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , 
inforcement. 

Sub - section ( ii) dated 3 July 1965 . 
2 IS :912- 1963 Specification for braided air S. O . 3025 dated 8 October _ 1963 published 
hose of rubber, light duty . 

in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 

3 , Sub - section (ii) dated 26 October 1963. 
3 IS :914 - 1963 Specification for braided water S . O , 3025 dated 8 October 1963 published 
hose of rubber , low pressure. 

in the Gazette of India , Part, II , Section 
3 , Sub - section (ii) dated 26 October , 
1963. 


SBC. 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2151 


2 


nal fism 


4 , IS :953- 15€o Sfecfcani fu 

Crichiei ( C . 


S . O , 2011 ( nied 17 August 1961 publishe 
in thc Gazetle of Ilala , Part II , Section 3 
Sub - section (11) Cated 20 August , 196 


[No. CMD / 13 : 7 ) . 

A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director Generaj 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 20th May 1969 
S . O . 2033. The Government of Jamniu and Kashmir having nominated Shri 
Bazle Karım , Managing Director, J. & K . Industries Ltd ., Srinagar , to be a 
member of the Central Silk Board under clause ( h ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
4 of the Central Silk Board Act , 148 161 ct 1948 ) in place of Dr. Mir Habibullah , 
the Central Government hcieby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Conunerce No. 1272 
dated the 10th April, 1967 , nancly :-- 

In the said 110tiAcation , for the entry against serial number 18 , the following 
entry shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" 18 . Shri Bazle Karim , Managing Director, J . & K . Industries Ltd ., 
Srinagar." . 

[No. F . 22 / 1 / 67- Tex ( F ). ] 

DAULAT RAM , Under Secy . 
(Office of the Cheif Controller and Exports ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd March 1969 
S . O . 2034 ,- - M / s . Greaves Cotton & Co ., Ltd ., New Delhi were granted an 
impuri licence No. G / DG / 2105844 / D / IT / 25 / C \ / 11 / 21- 24 cated 12th June , 1957 
for Rs. 2 , 20 ,47,545 / -. They have applied for a duplicate copy of the licence (Cus 
toms purposes copy ) on the ground that the original (Customs purposes copy ) 
licence has been lost. It is further stated that the original licence was registered 
with the Customs House at Bombay and partly utilised . In support of this con 
tention the applicant has Aled an affidavit . I am satisfied that the original 
custoins copy of the licence No G / DG / 210 .1845 / D / IT / 25 / C / H / 21 - 2-1 dated 12th 
June, 1967 has been lost and a duplicate licence should be issued to the applicant, 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 (cc) of the Imports (Control) 
Order No 17 / 55 dated 7th Decenaber , 1955 as amended from time to time, the 
undersigned cancels the import ll! enc ? No . G / DG / 2105845 / D / IT / 25 / C / 11 / 21- 24 
dated 12th June, 1967 for Rs. 2 , 20 ,47,515 / - (Customs purpose copy partly utilised ) 
for the import or Dual channel radar type ATCR / 2 / D , etc. under S . No. 46 / II 
of the I. T . C . Schedule issued in favour of M / s . Grcaves Cotton & Co . Ltd ., 
New Delhi. 

INo 11 . G / Cont/66 67 / GLS .] 
S . A . SESHAN , Dy. Chief Controller . 


(Оfice of the Chicf Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th May 1969 
S . O . 2035 -- M / s . The Fertilizers and Chemicals , Tranvancore litri., Udyogman 
da ). were granted licence No PD 2167200, dated 22nd January, 1969, from G . C . A . 
uniler 4th I. D . A . Credit for the import of spares valued Rs. 23 , 00, 000 . They have 
relluested for the issue of duplicate Exchange and Customs copies of the said 
licunce , on the ground that the original copies of the licence have been lost in 
transit from New Delhi to Udyogamandal, without utilising it . The licence has 
not been registered vith any Customs, 


2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / SYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


In support of their contention , the applicant have filed an affidavit. The 
undersigned is satisfied that the or ginal copies of the licence referred to above 
1. e . P / D / 2167200 , dated 22nd January , 1969, have been lost and directs that dupli 
cate copies of the licence in question should be issued to them . The original 
coples are cancelled . 
3 . The duplicate copies of the licence are being issued separately . 

[No. CH / F . 4 (9 ) / A . M . 69 / R -M . 3 / 477. ] 

T . M . B . NEDUNGADI. 
Jt. Chia Controller of Imports and Exporte . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
(Ottice of the Jt. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

Central Licensing Area 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st March 1969 
$ . 0 . 2036 . - M / s . Everest Pharniaceutical Works, Bhatinda , were granted import 
licence No. P / SS / 1608450 / C / XX / 25 / C - D / 25 - 26 dated 8th November 1967 for 
L . 60 ,000 / - for the import of Drugs and Medicines as per llst attached with the 
said licence . They have applied for issue of duplicate copy of the Customs Pur 
pose copy thereof, on the ground that it has been lost /misplaced . This licence has 
been registered with Bombay Customs House, and has been utilised for 
Rg. 22 ,493 . 92 P . 

9 . The applicant have filed an affidavit in support of their contention , as requl 
red under para . 299 read with appendix 8 of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Pro 
cedure , 1968 . I am satisfied , the criginal Custom Purpose copy has been lost /mis 
placed . 

3 In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under Section 9 (CC) Import 
(Control) Order , 1955 , dated 7th December 1955 , I order the cancellation of the 
Customs purpose copy of Import licence No . P / SS / 1608450 / C / XX / 25 / C - P / 25 - 26 
dated the 8th November , 1987 . 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate copy of Customs Purpose copy 
of this licence , in accordance with the provision of para , 299 of I. T . C . Hand Book 
of Rules and Procedure , 1968 , 

[No. F .P . 46 / AM . 68 / All-PB / CLA .) 

FAM MURTI SHARMA , 
Joint Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & SHIPPING 
(Directorate General of Shipping) 

ORDER 

Bombay , the 8th May 1969 
9 . 0 . 2037 . - In pursuance of note ( 3 ) of the schedule to the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and Shipping relating to scales 
of provision for seamen , No, S . O . 2169, dated 218t June, 1967 and in furtherance 
at he order of the Director General of Shipping, No. 9 (21) - CRA167, dated the 
12th November, 1988, J, K , C . Madappa, Director General of Shipping, hereby 
ordo " that, for a period of one month with effect from the 12th May, 1969 , the 
sota daily scale of cereal rations of 570 grame shall stand amended to 350 grams 
nice and 170 grams wheat , if procurement is made in India . 

A As a compensation for the reduction of 80 grams in the rice rations , the 
scale of other items shall be increased per day ag under for each unit of 25 
grims;-- 

10 grams of fresh fish . or 
ograms of meat, oſ 
50 grams of dry vegetables , or 
$ grams of fresh vegetables , 

[No. 1 ( 21 )-CRA / 07. ] 
K . C . MADAPPA , 
Director General of Shipping . 


Sec . 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2153 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 8th May 1969 
SO 2038 .- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publlshes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery of Shr 
H , I. Pathak , Post Omce Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad , and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 15th April, 1969. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 45 OF 1968 
PRESENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M . A .M .L ., Presiding Officer. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery 

Vs. 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES ; 

For Employers - Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate. 

For Worlamen - Shri Shanker Bose, Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Bihar . 
Dhanbad , dated the 1st of April, 1969 

AWARD 
1, The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery of Shri H . I. 
Pathak Post Office -Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad , and their workmen by its order 
No. 2 / 135 / 66 -LRII dated the 23rd of September, 1966 , referred to the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 in respect of the matter specified in the schedule annexed there 
to . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of the South Govindpur Colliery 

of Shri H , I, Pathak in refusing employment to Shri Budheshwar 
Gosai, Pump Khalasi, with effect from the 20th December, 1965 was 
justified ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


2. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refe 
rence as reference No. 137 of 1966 on its file . While it was pending there the pro 
ceeding was transferred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 2 
Dhanbad by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 /67 - LRII dated the 
8th of May , 1967 where it was registered 28 reference No. 174 of 1967. The 
Central Government by its subsequent order No. 8 / 71 / 68 - LRII dated the 13th 
of August , 1988 transferred the dispute to this tribunal and here it has been re 
numbered as reference No . 45 of 1968, 


3 . The Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh Aled the written statement on 26th 
July 1968 on behalf of the workman . Their case is that Sri Budheshwar Gosal, the 
concerned workman has been working at the South Govindpur Colllery as a per 
manent Pump Khalasi since long time and that on 20th December, 1965 when Sr . 
Budheshwar Gosal reported for work as usual at the Schedule time, the manage 
ment refused to provide him employment. No reason for this refusal to work 
was assigned by the management either verbally or in writing. According to the 
union when the concerned workman was stopped from work sufficient work for 

pump khalal was available in the colliery and persong Junior to him were re 
tained in service and subsequently even new hand were recruited to work ag 
Pump Khalagd . 


2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


[Part II 


4 . The management of South Govindpur colliery had committed several viola 
tions with regard to the payment of Wages Art , Mines Act and the Industrial Dis 
putes Act . The workmen of the colliery had been for several months past, agitat 
ing for payment of wages in terins of Majumdar Award and other benefits accord 
ing to the provisions of the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme. With a view to realising 
their demands the workmen united under the banner of the colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh . The concerned workman Sri Budheshwar Gosai was a very active mem 
ber of the union . According to the union the management s refusal to allow the 
workman to continue in his employment was unjustifed , malafide and illegal and 
amounts to victimisation and unfair labour practice . 


5 . The employers filed the written statement on 19th January 1968. Their case 
18 that the concerned workman Sri Budheshwar Gosai was a temporary Pump 
Khalasi and during the period of his service he was very irregular in his attend 
ance . Sri Budheshwar Gosai wag allowed the duties of Pump Khalasi in the pit 
which was being sunk , He joined in the week ending 23rd January 1965 and con 
tinued till 18th December 1965 . Sri Budheshwar Gosai absented without permis 
sion or any information after 18th December 1965. The management did not re 
fuse employment to Sri Budheshwar Gosai, Pump Khalasi with effect from the 
20th of December , 1965 or any subsequent date . Therefore. Sri Budheshwar Gosai 
is not entitled to any relief and that at present Sri Budheshwar Gosai, Pump 
Khalasi is working in other collieries . 


6 . On behalf of the emp ayer Sri V . H . Thaker, was examined as a witness 
(MW - 1 ) and one item of document was marked on behalf of the management i. e . 
the attendance chart of the concerned workman , Sri Budheshwar Gosai for the 
year 1965 ( M - 1 ) . No witness was examined on behalf of the union nor they Alec 
any document. MW - 1 Sri V . H . Thaker , who is the manager of South Govindpur 
Colliery since year 1960, has stated on oath that the concerned workman Sri 
Budheshwar Gosai was not coming to work since 20th December 1965 voluntarily . 
He further stated that after 20th December 1965 he has been working in New 
Sinidih Colliery and thereafter he folned Maraphari. Therefore, according to his 
statement the management did not refuse employment to Sri Budheshwar Gosai 
with effect from the 20th December , 1965 but on the other hand Sri Budheshwar 
Gosai himself absented from work since 20th December 1965 on his own accord . 
He further stated that he has no knowledge that Sri Budheshwar Gosai was a 
meriber of Colliery M 97door Srirh or Opany union and that he was not 
aware of any union activity of Budheshwar Gosai. He further stated that it was 
not a fact that he stopped Sri Budheshwar Gosai with effect from 20th December 
1965 from work , 


6 . The allegations made in the written statement were not proved by the 
union , The employers have fled ext M - 1 , the attendance chart for the year 1965 
which shows that in that year Sri Budheshwar Gosai worked only for 161 days. 
The management has examined his witness Sri V . H . Thaker , who has proved the 
case of the management. He has stated on oath that the concerned workman was 
not stopped from work from 20th Derramier 1965 and that the action of the 
management was not motivated by victimisation or unfair labour practice . 


7 . I therefore , hold that the nnnagement of South Govindpur Colliery did not 
refuse employment of Sri Budheshwar Goral, Pump Khalasi and that he absented 
on his own accord from 20th December 1965 and he is therefore , not entitled to 
any relief. 


8 . This is my award . It may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINHA, 

Presiding Officer , 
[No. 2 / 135 /66 - LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 17th May 1969 


S . O . 2039 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dispurez Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery , Post Olice Bhowra , 
District Dhanbad , and their workmen , which was received by the Central Gov 
ernment on the 13th May , 1969. 


dec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2155 : 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD . . 

REFERENCE No. 39 OF 1968 
PAISENT: 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha , M .A .M .L , Presiding Officer. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery. 

13. 
Their workman . 
APPEARANCES : 

None appeared . 
INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Bihar . 
Dhanbad , dated the 2nd of May , 1969 

AWARD 
1. The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial tribunal exists 
between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery, Post Office Bhowra , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen by its order No. 2 / 103 / 66 -LRII, dated the 
9th of September , 1966 , referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, for ad 
judication the dispute in respect of the matter specified in the schedule annexed 
thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCIEDUJE 
" Whether the action of the management of the Bhowra Colliery in stopping 

the work of Sri Ramdhan Passi, Pick Miner , 10 Seam , Parsiabad , 
during the period from the 3rd July , 1965 to the 23rd August, 1965 

was justitied ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? ” 
3 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the re 
ference as reference No . 131 of 1966 on its file . While it was pending there the 
proceeding was transferred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , 
Dhanbad by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 / 07 -LRII , dated the 
8th of May , 1967, where it was registered as reference No 168 of 1967 . The 
Central Government by its subsequent order No. 8 / 71 / 68-LRII, dated the 13th of 
August , 1968 , transferred the dispute to this tribunal and here it las been re 
numbered as reference No 39 of 1968. 


3 . Parties were directed to Ale their written statement by registered notices 
on several dates . But the workman failed to subinit their writion statement so 
tai . After several adjournment tlie employers Aled their written stateinent on 
the 5th of April, 1969. Their case is that the concerned workman was found on 
3rd July , 1965 , in his shift robbing coal from the foor arca at an unuuthorised 
place and consequently he was turned out of the mine by the Mining Sirdar and 
Overman . The concerned workman was ordered out of the mine on 3rd August, 
1965 for that day only and thereafter the workman concerned was remaining 
absent voluntarily Thereafter the concerned workinan was chargesheeted on 
14th August, 1965 for the misconduct of absenting from duty since 3rd July , 1965 
without any information and permission . A departmental enquiry was consequently 
held and he was given full opportunity to cross - examine all the witnesses of the 
management and made his own statement in the departnicntal proceeding . The 
charge was satisfactorily established and the management considered absence 
due to fear and therefore , did not take any further action because according to 
the management the workman had suffered loss of his wages for the days of his 
absence . 

When the concerned workman did not submit his written statement the case 
was adjourned to several dates for preliminary hearing but the workman did not 
appear . On 11th April, 1969, the case was fixed for Anal hearing but the work 
man did not appear and the case was again adjourned to 1st May , 1969 for Anal 
hearing. Even on the date of hearing none of the parties appe.ired . The Union 
who has espoused the cause of the concerned workman did not Ale the written 
statement nor Ale any document nor ticy appeared on the date of hearing. There 
is nc explanation for this conduct of the Union except disinterestedness in the 
dispute . 


- 2156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


4 . Under such circumstances I am of the opinion that the Uniun is not further 
Interested in proceeding with the reference . 

5 . Under these circumstances I hold that no dispute further exists between the 
parties and record No Dispute award between the parties . 

0 . This is my award . It may now be submitted to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINEA , 

Presidink Oficer , 

[No. 2 / 103 / 86 -LRII.) 
8 . 0 . 2040 .- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
- the Presiding Omcer, Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , 
in the matter oť a complaint under section 33A of the said Act , from Shri Bal 
kishun Dusadh , Fireman , which was reccived by the Central Government on the 
13th Mey, 1963. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD . 

COMPLAINT No . 3 OF 1958 
PRESENT ; 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha , M .A .M .L ., Presiding Officer . 
PARTICI : 
Sri Balkishun Dusadh , Fireman , M / s. Ballhari Colliery Company (P ) Ltd ., 

V s. 

M / s . Ballhari Colliery Company (P ) Ltd ., 
APPEARANCES : 
For complainant: Shri S . V . Acharlar , General Secretary and J . Bhattacherya , 

Executive Committee member , Hindustan Khan Mazdoor Sangh 
For opposite party : Sri S. S . NIukherjee , Advocate . 
INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bthar 
Dhanbad , duted the 2nd May , 1969 


AWARD 
1 . This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
by one Srl Balkisbun Dusadh , Firoman against the enployer in relation to the 
Balihari Colliery , alleging that the opposite party has been guilty of contraven 
tion of the provisions of section 33 of the Act. 


2 . The case of the complainant is that an industrial dispute regarding retrencla 
ment of 376 workmen of Balihari Colliery is pending in reterence No. 22 of 100 % 
before this tribunal. The petitioner Sri Balki bun Dubadh is a member of Hindus 
tan Khan Mazdoor Sangh . Reference No . 22 of 1968 is being sponsored by the 
Hindustan Khan Mazdoor Sangh . The petitioner was dismissed on 29th July , 1987 
while reference No . 22 of 1968 was pending before this Tribunal. The opposite 
party did not make any application before this Tribunal for approval of the action 
of the management in dismissing the petitioner Sri Balkishun Dusadh . 

3 . According to the petitioner he was innocent and had not committed an 
offence or misconduct. The petitioner was served with a chargesheet dated 
30th April, 1967. The charge was that he deliberately lowered the steam pregourr 
and failed to remove the ashes (Chhal ) during his duty and that the damage 
was done to the work in progress on account of his negligence . The petitioner 
gubmitted his written explanation on 3rd of May, 1987 denying the charges . Ac 
cording to the petitioner no enquiry was held and the diamissal of thr petitioner 
was thoroughly mala fide and was a case of victimisation . The pelitioner 128 
an active member of Hindustan Khan Mazdoor Sangh and since he refused to 
become a member of pocket union backed by the management the petitioner wat 
falşely implicated in & fabricated charge and has been victimised . 

4. The action of the opposite party in withdrawing application under som 
13 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for approval of dismissal of the 


SEC . 3 ( 1)] THB GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2157 


petitioner on the 8th of November, 1968 was mala ile . In short, the case of the 
petitioner is that he was dismissed from service on 29th July , 1967 while refe 
rence No. 22 of 1968 was pending before this tribunal and thus the opposite 
party has contravened the provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947. 

5 . The opposite party has filled the written statement on 23rd December, 1968. 
On facts it was stated that the chargesheet dated 30th April , 1967 was issued to 
the applicant and he was suspended , during enquiry . The applicant submitted a 
reply to the chargesheet dated 3rd May , 1967 denying the charges . The notice 
dated 10th May , 1967 was issued to the workman fixing the enquiry 17th May , 
1967 at the office of the Director. The applicant workman however , refused to 
attend the enguiry and hence he did not attend the departmental enquiry fixed 
on 17th May, 1967. It was held in his absence. In the departmental enquiry the 
misconduct mentioned in the chargesheet , was satisfactorily established and the 
complainant was dismissed by letter dated 28th July , 1967 with effect from 29th 
July , 1967. 

6 . Reference No. 22 of 1968 was disposed of by an award dated 20th September , 
1968. In this reference the opposite party under misconception of law had 
filed an application under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 for approval of dismissal of the petitioner . But the same was withdrawn 
by the opposite party on the 8th of November, 1968 . 

7 . According to the opposite tarty the complainant was not a workman concern 
ed in the reference No. 22 of 1968 and consequently the employers have not violated 
the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and as such the 
present application is not legally maintainable . It was alleged that the dismissal 
of the complainant was legal, bora fide and based on proved misconducts. Accord 
ing to the opposite party they had also not violated any ot the provisions of Şec 
tion 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in dismissing the complainant. Since 
the complainant was not a workman concerned in reference No. 22 of 1968, the 
present application is not maintainable , 

8 . On behalf of the opposite party one witness Sri Siram Sinha, the manager 
of the colliery has been examined . He proved Ext. M - 7 to M - 9 . In all 9 items 
of documents were exhibited by the opposite party and these are marked as ext . 
M - 1 to M - 9 . On behalf of the workman one witness namely Sri Balkishun 
Dusadh , the concerned workman was examined and 4 items of documents are 
marked as Ext. M - 1 to M - 4 , 

9 . The point for consideration is whether the opposite party have contravened 
the provision of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ? 


10 . There are certain admitted facts , Reterence No. 22 of 1968 was criginally 
referred to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad by the Central Government s order 
No. 2 / 73 / 66 -LRII dated the 19th of May , 1966 and thereafter it was transferred 
to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , Dhanbad by the Central 
Government s order No. 8 / 25 / 67- LRII dated the 8th of May , 1967 . By the sub 
sequent order No . 8 / 71 / 68 -LRII dated the 13th of August, 1968 , the Central 
Government transferred the dispute to this Tribunal. The reference was disposed 
of by the award dated 20th of September , 1968. The applicant was dismissed on 
29 - 7 -67. The opposite party had Aled an application under section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for the approval of the dismissal of the petitioner 
but the same was later on withdrawn by the opposite party on the 8th of Novem 
ber , 1968. Therefore , the case of the applicant was that he was dismissed on 
29 - 7 -67 while the reference No. 22 of 1968 was pending before this Tribunal 


11 . Before me the preliminary point was taken that the concerned workmaz 
Sri Balkishun Dusadh was not a workman connected with the dispute which war 
in question in reference No. 22 of 1968. It was not necessary for the management 
to Ale an application under section 33 ( 2 ) (b ). It was therefore , submitted by the 
opposite party that the present application under section 33 A is rot maintain 
able . 


12 . The concerned workman Sri Balkişhun Dusadh was dismissed on the 29th 
of July , 1987. At that time reference No. 22 of 1968 wag pending before the Tri 
bunal. The case of the opposite party is that Sri Balkishun Dusadb wag not a 
workman connected with this dispute . Reference No . 22 of 1968 way for justift 
citior of retrenchment in respect to 376 workmen . In that case the management 
Tescinded the retry hment in respect of 127 workmen and the union agreed a 


2158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


[Part II 


- - 


- - 


respect to the retrenchment of the remaining 249 workmen and they recelved 
their retrenchment compensation , 

13 . The point for determination is whether the concerned workman Sri Bal 
Fishun Dusadh may be said to have been connected in the dispute in reference 
No . 22 of 1968 which was pending before this Tribunal . 

14 . The law on this subject is laid down by two important decisions of the 
Supreme Court in New India Motors Private Ltd . V . K . T . Morris ( 1960 - ( I) L . L ., 
page 551 ] and Digwadih Colliery V . Ramji Singh ( 1964- ( II) L LJ., page 143 ]. The 
combined eifect of these two decisions of Supreme Court is that there must be 
some common feature in the nature of the dispute in the two cases which should 
serve as a connecting link thereby rendering the workmen in the latter case also , 
workmen concerned in the dispute in the earlier case. In other words the mere 
fact that the same union has taken up the cause of the two workinen or else that 
by virture of s . 18 ( 3 ) ( b ) of the Act all workmen may be bound by the award in 
the earlier dispute may not suffice unless there is soine other common feature in the 
two disputes . 

15 . In the chargesheet dated 3 - 4 -67 that was issued to Sri Balkishun Dusadh , 
the defence of Sri Balkishun Dusadh was that he was innocent and that he was 
being victimised for his trade union activities . There is no question of victimisa 
tion in respect to the aforesaid 249 workmen and the management rescinded 
retrenshment in respect to the remaining workmen . Therefore , there is no com 
mon tcature in the nature of the dispute in two cases . 

16 . Therefore , the petitioner, Şri Balkishun Dusadh was not the workman 
connected with the dispute in reference No . 22 of 1968. The opposite party had 
fllet an application under section 33( 2 ) ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
for approval but the same was ultimately withdrawn by the opposite party on 
8 - 11 -68 . According to the opposite party they have filed the application under 
section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 under misconception . There 
is nothing to prevent the employers from withdrawing the application made under 
provisn of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) when the crnplwyers find that the application has 
been made under misconception , 

17 . In this view of the evidence the concerneil workman Sri Bəlkishin Dusuadh 
was not a workman connected with the dispute which was in question in reference 
No. 22 of 1968. It was not necessary for the management to Alle an application for 
approval of the punishment by the tribunal under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) Therefore , 
this application under section 33A is not maintainable . 

The complaint under section 334 is held to le non -maintninoble and my 
award therefore, is that this complaint is not maintainable . Let it be submitted 
to the Central Govt. 

(Sd.) SACHIDANAND SINHA, 

Presiding Officer. 
No. 2 / 73 /66 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
S . O . 2041, - 17 pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947), the Central Governinent hershy publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 3 ), Dhanbad , in the Industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the East Bhuggulilih Colllery . Post Once Jharia , Dis 
trict Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government 
on the 13th May , 1969 , 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 3) AT DHANBAD 

RFFERENCE No . 63 OF 1968 
PRESENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M . A .M .L .,- Presiding Officer, 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the East Bhuggatdih Colliery 

Versus 
Their workmen , 


Sec. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2159 


APPEARANCES : 

For employers. - Shri B . P . Dabral, Chief Personnel Officer, 
For workmen . - Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 

Sabha. 
INDUSTRY ; Coal 

STATE : Bihar 
Dhanbad , dated the 1st of May 1969 

AWARD 
1 . The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the East Bhuggardin Colliery, Post Office 
Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen by its order No. 2 / 119 / 66 -LRII, dated 
the 15th of November, 1966 referred to the Central Government Lr.dustrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication 
the dispute in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule annexed thereto . The 
Schedule is extracted below : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Saryashri Sripati Bowri and Jai Bowri, Miners , 

East Bhuggatdih Colliery with elſect from the 4th May , 1966 , by the 
management of the said colliery was an act of victimisation ? If not, 

to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refer 
ence as reference No . 156 of 1966 on Its Ale . While it was pending there the Central 
Government by Its order No. 8 / 25 /67-LRII dated the 8th of May, 1967, transferred 
the dispute to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , Dhanbad where 
it was registered as reference No . 192 of 1967. The Central Government by tte 
subsequent order No . 8 / 71 / 68 -LRII dated the 13th of August , 1968 transferred the 
dispute to this tribunal and here it has been re -numbered as reference No. 63 of 
1968 . 

3 . The employers Aled the written statement on 16th January 1967. Their case 
18 that Sarvashri Jai Bowri and Sripati Bowri were employed as piece- rated miners 
at the Selected Jharla unit of the East Bhuggatdih Colliery at the relevant time. 
According to the management from the 25th of January , 1966 (2nd shift) a total 
number of 76 piece - rated miners belonging to the three shifts , who were employed 
in the Development Galleries left their appointed places of work and started forcibly 
to cut the floor coal from the area between the 24th and 26th Levels in breach or 
the persuasions, orders and admonitions of the Supervisory Mining Staff . They are 
between the 24th and 26th levels was bering worked out by the management in 
accordance with the restrictions imposed by the Department of Mines , inasmuch as 
this area directly underlay the populous town and residential areas of Jharia Town . 
The management apprehended the continuance of the breach of discipline referred 
to would seriously endanger safety to the mine . When all persuasions failed to 
bring about results , the management fenced off the area and prohibited miners from 
entering that area or cutting floor coal therefrom effective from the 31st January , 
1966 . 

4 . In spite of the above prohibition , miners of the night shift of 31st January, 1966 
forcibly removed the fences and forcibly worked in that area. In the morning shift 
of the succeeding day, t. e . on 1st February 1966 the fencing was restored twice , but 
it was broken twice and miners forcibly worked in the prohibited area . 

5 . Under the aforesaid circumstances, the management issued charge sheets On 
all the 76 miners of the 3 shifts and suspended them all forthwith . 

6 . The domestic enquiries were held into the whole matter in full accordance 
with the principles of natural justice wherein the concerned workmen were given 
every chance to rebut the charges levelled against them , to examine their own 
witnesses and to make their own submissions. During the enquiry the charges 
levelled against the workmen were found to have been established . It further 
showed that out of the total of 76 miners charge sheeted , 16 had played a dominant 
and aggressive role . The evidence further showed that even out of the 16 workmen 
referred to , the greatest responsibillty lay on two of the charge sheeted miners 
including Shri Joy Bowri and Sripati Bowri, the concerned workmen Srvashri 
Joy Bowri and Sripati Bowri were dismissed from service with effect from 4th 
May , 1966 . According to the management the dismissal of Sri Joy Bowri and 
Sripati Bowti, miners of East Bhuggatdlh colliery with cflect from the 4th May, 1966 
was not an act of victimisation but was bonafide and for the proper maintenanco 


2160 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


* 


of discipline and their dismissal were effected in full accord with the principles of 
natural Justice . 

7 . The General Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor Sabha Aled the written state -- 
ment on behalf of the workmen on 7th February , 1967. Their case is that the afore 
gaid two workmen were the permanent employees of the colliery . In this particular 
section of the mine (selected Jharia ) coal was being cut from the development, 
galleries and also from floor area. Work in the galleries faces was exteriely dim 
cult while work in floor area offered a much easier condition . The miners working . 
in the gallery faces were demanaing difficulty allowance and blasting facilities. 
According to the union the management attempted to force the miners to work in 
the gallery faces , while denying their just claims of dificulty allowances and blast 
ing facilities. The management in order to overcome the resistance of these miners , 
suspended them en masse from 1st February 1966 and issued charge sheets alleging 
various misconducts . The allegation of breaking fences etc . was not true and was 
mvented by the management in order to victimise the workmen . 

8 . In consequence of the departmental proceeding the management suspended 
for 10 days 74 mlners, and dismissed only Jai Bowri and Sripati Bowri. The action 
of the management in attributing significant role and special responsibility as a 
ground of dismissing Jal Bowri and Sripati Bowri were nothing but invention by 
the management. The management victimised these two concerned workmen with 
the intention of intimidating the general body of niners and thus to force them to 
accept a very hard condition of work in the galleries. According to the union the 
dismissal of the concerned workmen Sarvashri Jai Bowri and Sripati Bowri was 
unjust, unfair , and motivated by the splrit of victimisation . The union therefore , 
prayed for reinstatement with full back wages of the concerned workmen , 

9 . On behalf of the management 12 items of documents were exhibited and they 
are marked as exts . M - 1 to M -12 . No document was exhibited on behalf of the 
union . No evidence was examined on behalf of the either party , 

10 . The point for consideration is whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Jai Bowri 
and Sripati Bowri by the management was an act of victimisation . I shall take up 
the case of the concerned workman Jai Bowri and Sripati Bowri separately . 


Case of Jai Bowri 
11 . Ext. M - 1 is the chargesheet issued to Jai Bowri on Ist February 1966 , The 
charge against Sri Jai Bouri was that during the night of 31st January 1966 when 
he was on duty in the 3rd shift he forcibly removed the fencing around the 24th 
and 26th levels of the Heightening area in the Mine, entered the said aiea and cut 
coal from the floor, thereby committing misconduct punishable under para 29 (19 ) of 
the Standing Orders for this establishinent, read with Coal Mires Regulations 1957, 
Regulation 38 and Regulation 115 ( 1 )" Ext, M - 2 is the reply to the charge sheet. In 
his reply to the chargesheet he had stated that he never tampered with the fencing 
and worked in the unfenced area . 

12 . The departmental enquiry into the chargesheet against Jai Bowri was held 
by Sri K . V . Ayyar , Group Wellare Ollicer and he submitted his report on 21st 
March 1966 . In the departmental enquiry five witnesses were examined viz . S / Sri 
( 1 ) D . C . Parmanik , MW - 1 (2 ) T . P . Banerjec , MW - 2 ( 3 ) C . R . Bhadra , MW - 3 , 
( 4 ) S . S . Mitra , MW - 4 ( 5 ) B . Sinha , MW - 5 . Out of the aforesaid witnesses exainined 
on behalf of the management MW - 1 Sri D . C . Parmanik , MW - 3 Sri C . R . Bhadra , 
MW - 4 Sri S . S . Mitra and MW - 5 Sri B . Sinha were not present in the 3rd shift of 
31st January 1966 and therefore, the aforesaid witnesses were not eye witnesses. 
Out of the witnesses examined on behalf of the management only Sri T , P . Banerjee 
(MW - 2 ) was present in the 3rd shift of 31st January 1966 y hen the occurrence took 
place . He also does not say in his evidence that Jai Bowri forcibly removed the 
tencing. According to the enquirying officer Şri Jai Bowri, Proiulla Bowri, Yugal 
Bowri and Hem Bowri were the spokesmen of the workmen . The enquirying officer 
further says that Sri Jai Bowri along with others walted in deputation on the 
Manager and the Assistant Manager and had given assurance and guarantee to the 
management that the miners should be permitted to work in the proposed area . 
According to MW - 1 Şri D . C . Parmanik , Sri Jai Bowri was allotted to work in the 
floor area . Therefore , he had no real grievance against the management. MW - 2 
was only eye witness of the occurrence , who also does not say in his evidence that 
Sri Jai Bowri removed the fencing According to the enquirying officer he was 
punished as he was the spokesman of the workmen and he waited in deputation on 
the manager and the Assistant manager and had given assurance on behalf of the 
workinen . According to the enquirying officer Sri Jai Bowri, Profulla Bowri, Yugal 
Bowri and Hem Bowri were the spokesmen of the workmen . But only Sri Jai Bowri 


dec, 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAIŞTHA 10, 1891 


21611 


was recommended by the enquirying officer for dismissal whereas the remaining. 
Hered workmen ( 1 ) Profulla Bowri (2 ) Yugal Bowri and ( 3 ) Hem Bowri were let off 
by giving a warning. It was therefore , argued on behalf of the union that the 
management was guilty of discrimination . Since Jai Bowri was given the highest 
punishment of dismissal whereas the remaining three workmen viz . Sri Profulla 
Bowri, Yugal Bowri and Hem Bowrị were let off by giving a warning . 

13. Sri Jai Bowri was not found guilty for the charge of breaking the fencing 
but was dismlssed on account of the fact that he was waiting in deputation on 
the manager and the assistant manager and gave them assurance cn behall 
of the workmen . The workman was therefore , punished not for committing the 
misconduct for which he was charged but because he had displeased the manage 
ment by his espousing the cause of the other workmen . Under such circum 
atances the management is clearly guilty of victimisation . 


Case of Sripati Bowri 
14 . Ext . M - 5 , is the charge sheet, dated 1st February , 1960, issued to Sripati 
Bowri. The charge was that " on 1st February , 1966 he removed the fencing bet 
woel the 24th and 26th level and eiilared the area for ciitting coal" . Ext. M - B 
is the reply to thcharge- sheet , Ile had denled the charge and has stated that he 
did not remove the fencing on 1st February , 1968 and that he worked in the 
tenced area . 

15 . The departmental enquiry was held by Sri K . V . Ayyar , the Group Labour 
Welfare Oficer and he submitted his report on 19th March , 1966 . Five witnesses 
were examined during the departmental enquiry on behalf of the management, 
víz -, ( 1 ) Sri T . P . Banerjee , Overman (MW - 1 ) , (2 ) Sri C . R . Bhadra , MW - 2 , 
( 3 ) Chandra Mohan Singh , MW - 3 , ( 4 ) Sri S . B . Sah , MW - 4 and B . Sinha , Assis 
tant Manager , MW - 5 , MW - 1 , Sri T . P . Banerjee was not present in the 1st shift 
of 1st February 1966 and therefore, he was not an eye witness of the occurrence. 
MW - 4 , Sri S . B . Sah , the manager was also not present at the time of the accur 
rence . MW - 2 , Sri C . R . Bhadra , MW - 3 , Chandra Mohan Singh and MW - 5 , B . 
Sinha were the eye witness of the occurrence , MW -2 Sri C . R . Bhadra , Overman 
was present at the time of the occurrence and he has named the persons who 
broke the fencing viz ., Meghu Bowri, Pakų Rai, Dasu Bowri and Manohar Bowri. 
According to him Sripati Bowri was not the person who actually broke the fencing 
MW - 3 , Sri C . M . Singh has also not named Sri Sripati Bowri as the person who 
actually broke the fencing. According to him Meghu , Paku , Lilloo and Dasu 
Bowri were breaking the fencing. He further stated that Sripati Bowri was 
shouting in Ilindi " FENCING KHOL DO . BAD ME DEKHA JAYAGA . YAHIN 
KOYALA KATO ” . MW -5 , Sri Sinha has also named the person who had 
broken the fencing and according tɔ him Manohar Bowri, Beghu Bowri and 
Dagu Bowri were breaking the fencing . He has also not named Sripati Bowri 
as the person who was breaking the fencing . As a matter of fact none of the 
witnesses examined before the Enquiring Oſicer stated that Sripati broke the 
fencing . 

16 . The charge against Sripati Bowri was for removal of the fencing for which 
there was no evidence. Only one witness MW - 3 C . R . Bhandra has stated that 
Sripati Bowri incited the workmen to break the fencing. Accordins to the en 
quirying officer also Sripati Bowri only gave a lead to all the workmen for break 
Ing the fencing for the second time. But he was not sharged on that count. 
According to the enquirying officer he was given the highest punishment of dis - - 
missal because he had given assurance and guaranteę on behalf of the workmen . 

17 . The evidence shows that he was not punished hernuse he was found guilty 
of the charge, but because he gave lead to all the workers and gave assurance 
and guarantees on behalf of the workmen . It appears that he had displeased 
the employers for being the spokesman of the workmen and he was punished on 
that account and not for committing the misconduct for which he was charged . 

18 . These two concerned worknien were punished for being the spokesmen of 
the workmen and for having given assurance and guarantees on behalf of them , 
This was clearly an act of evictimisation and the punishment inflicted on these 
two workmen was unjustified . 


19 . The more fact that the domestic enquiry was made after due observation 
of the rules of natural justice will not show that there was no victimisation . 
The two are entirely different. Even after Anding in favour of the employer 
that the enquiry was in accordance with the rules of natural Justice it is open to 


2162 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART 1 


the Tribunal to examine the question whether there was victimisation or unfair 
labour practice . 


20 . I therefore , hold that the dismissal of Şaryashree Jai Bowri and Sripati 
Bowri, miner of East Bhuggatdih Colliery with effect from the 4th May, 1966 by 
the management was an act of victimisation and they are entitled to be re - instat 
ed with full back wages from the date of their dismissal upto the dote of their 
reinstatement with continuity of service . 

21. This is my award . It may be submitted to thọ Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

(Sd.) SACHIDANAND SINHA , 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 2 / 119 / 66 -LRII. ] 


S . O . 2042 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No. 3 ) , Dhanbad, in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Centrai Angarpathra Colliery , Post 
Office Siiua, District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 13th May , 1969. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 3) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 95 OF 1968 
PRESENT; 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M .A . M .L ., Presiding Oficer, 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Central Angarpathra Colllery 

AND 
Their workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 

For employers - Shri R . D . Sachdeva . 

For workmen - - La it Burman , General Secretary. 
* INDUSTRY : Coal 

STATE : Bihar 
Dhanbad , the 7th of May , 1969 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exista 
betwcen the employers in relation to the Central Angarpathra Colliery , P . O . Sljua 
District Dhanbad and their workmen , by its Order No. 2 / 35 / 67-LRII dated the 
16th of March , 1967. referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 for adjudi 
cation the dispute in respect of the matters specified in schedule annexed thereto . 
The Schedule is extracted below ; 

SCHEDULE 
( i) Whether the management of the Central Angarpathra Colliery of 

Messrs Centra Angarpathra Colliery Company , Post Office Sijua , 
District Dhanbad was justifed in keeping Shri R . K . Bose , Electric 
cian , under suspension from the 25th July , 1966 to the 13th Septem 
ber , 1966 and dismissing him from service with effect from the 14th 

September , 1966 ? and 
( ii ) If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the 
reference as reference No. 28 of 1967. While it was pending there the Central 
Government, by its order No 8 / 25 / 67-LRII dated the 8th May, 1967 
transferred the dispute to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No, 2 , 
Dhanbad where it was registered as reference No. 225 of 1987. The Central 
Government by its subsequent order No . 8 / 71 / 68 -LRII dated the 13th of August , 
1968 transferred the dispute to this tribunal and here it has been re -numbered 
as reference No. 95 of 1968 . 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2163 


3 . Both the parties had Aled their respective written statement but it is 
unnecessary to state the respective cases of the parties because the dispute has 
now been settled . The parties have fled a compromise petition at annexure A , 
According to the terms of compromise the employer have paid the concerned 
workman Shri Ranjit Kumar Bose, a sum of Rs , 600 (Rupees six hundred only ) 
in full and Anal settlement of all his claims. The workman has agreed not to 
press for his claim of reinstatement. The terms appear to be satisfactory and 
are accepted . Accordingly an award is made in terms of the joint petition of 
compromise , a copy of which is annexed with the award . 

The award may now be submitted to the Central Government under section 
15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. 

( sd .) SACHIDANAND SINHA, 

Presiding Oncer. 
ANNEXURE A 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO . III , DHANBAD 


REFERENCE NO. 95 OF 1988 

AND 
In the matter of an Industrial Dispute 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to Central Angarpathra Colliery 


AND 


Their workman 
The parties above named beg to submit as fol ows: - - 
That the above reference has been amicably settled between the parties on 

the following terms: 
1 . That the employers have paid to Shri Ranjit Kumar Bose , the workman 

concerned in this dispute , a sum of Rs. 600 (Rupees six hundred 
only ) in full and final settlement of all his claims and demands 

up - to - date . 
2 . That the workman concerned wi l not press for his reinstatement . 

3. That the parties will bear their own respective cost of this proceeding . 
It is , therefore humbly prayed that the reference may kindly be disposed of 
on the terms aforesaid and an Award passed in the terms of the compromise . 

For Employers 
For Central Angarpathra Colliery Co . 
(Sd.) R . D . SACHDEVA , 

Owner , 
For Workman 
( Sd . ) LALIT BARMAN , 
General Secretary , 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha 

and 
(Sd .) RANJIT KUMAR BOSE 
Workman Concerned . 

[No. 2 / 35 /67 - LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 20th May 1969 
S . O . 2043. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following 
award of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad , 
in the industrial dispute between the emplovers in relation to the Bhowra Cola 
liery, Post Office , Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 13th May , 1969 . 


2164 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


[Part II - 


- 


- 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer , 

REFERENCE No. 2 OF 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act , 1947. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery , Post Office, Dhanbad, 

AND 
Their Workmen 


inion thatolliery , PhostApril, 1987 select, 


APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the Employers - Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Per 

sonnel Officer. 
On behalf of the Workmen - Shri Ram Mitra , Secretary , Bihar Koyala 

Mazdoor Sabha . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad . 9th May , 1969. 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery , Post Office, Dhanbad 
and their workmen , by its order No . 231167 -LRII , dated 13th April, 1987 rcfer 
red to this Tribunal under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" ( 1 ) Whether the dismissal of Shri Lakha Saw , Stowing Fitter, by the 

management of the Bhowra Colliery with effect from the 17th 

October , 1986 was justified ? 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 
2 . Workmen as well as the employers Aled their statement of demands. 

3 . Shiri Lakha Saw (hereinafter referred to as the affected workman ) was 
a stowing fitter No. 4 and 5 Pit of Bhowra Colliery of the employers . On 7112 
October , 1966 the Manager of the colliery issued a charge - sheet to the affected 
workman alleging misconduct in terms of order 27 ( 2 ) of the Standing Orders 
on this part for committing fraud and dishonesty in connection with the com 
pany s business , stating that in connivance with another stowing fitter Shri 
Bisram Roy, he procured by mis - representation over - time slip from the Assis 
tant Manager in respect of stowing mazdoors for 11th September, 1966 and 
13th Scotember , 1986 and got the attendances of those stowing mazdoors 
recorded by the attendance clerk fraudulently , knowing fully well that the said 
stowing mazdoors had not worked overtime on the said dates . A similar 
charge - sheet was issued to the other stowing fitter , Shri Bisram Roy. The 
affected workman as well as Shri Bisram Roy denied the charges . The Wel . 
fare Officer of the colliery held a common domestic enquiry in respect of the 
charge - sheets issued to the affected workman and Shri Bisram Roy . After 
concluding the enquiry the Enquiry Officer submitted the enquiry rerort hold . 
ing th ? affected workman and Shri Bisram Roy guilty of the charges. The 
recommendation of the Enquiry Officer for dismissal of the affected workman 
and Shri Bisram Roy was accepted by the Manager and the Agent of the col 
liery and accordingly the affected workman was dismissed from service with 
effcct from 17th October , 1966 , by a letter of the Manager of the same date . 
These facts are not in dispute, The case of the workmen is that the domestic 
enquiry was not proper and it violated principles of natural justice and the 
findings arrived at by the Enquiry OMcer were perverse and that the affected 
workman was dismissed to victimise him for his trade union activitics and also 
for his refusal to vacate the quarter allotted to him . The employers denied 
knowledge of any trade union activity of the affected workman and also denied 
that his dismissal had anything to do with his refusal to vacate the quarter . 


- 


- -- 


SEC . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2165 
-- - - - - - - - - - 

- - = 
They pleaded that the dismissal of the affected workman was in accordance 
with the Standing Orders as a result of a proper domestic enquiry . The work 
men were represented by Shri Ram Mitra , Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha and the employers by Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel 
Ollicer. On admission by the employers Ext, W1 for the workmen and on 
admission by the workmen Exts , Mi and M2 for the employers were marked . 
On behall of the workmen the affected workman was examined as WW1 and 
Exts . W2 and 13 were marked. The employers examined 2 witnesses and 
morked Euts . M3 to M15 . 


4 . At the outset I should like to consider how far the domestic enquiry 
conducted by the employers against the affected workman was proper. Ina 
charge - sheet issued to the affected workman 15 Ext. Mi. The allegation was 
that on 11th September , 1966 and 13th September , 1966 , the affected workman 
along with Shri Bisrain Roy fraudulently got marked attendance of certain 
workmen as having worked overtime and also procured overtime slip in res 
pect of the workmen , It was also alleged that both of them approached all 
the workmen for handing over to them the excess amounts drawn by them 
for the alleged overtime and in some cases the affected workman and Shri 
Bisram Roy received the amount also from some of the workmen . On the 
charge -sheet itself the affected workman submitted his explanation denying the 
charge in its entirity . The Wellare Officer, Shri B . M . Lall who conducted the 
joint enquiry is examined as MW . 1. The enquiry procecdings are Ext. M6 
and the enquiry report is Ext. M7. In the enquiry report, Ext . M7 The Enquiry 
Officer , MW . 1 has stated the case against the affected workman , the witnesses 
examined before him and the evidence on which his evidence was based . This 
Tribunal cannot sit over the judgement of the Enquiry Officer as an Appellat 
authority and enter into appreciation of the evidence or substitute its own con 
clusions from the evidence for those of the Enquiry Officer . But the Tribunal 
is quite conivetent and it is its duty also to see if there was any material before 
the Enquiry Officer to support his finding. Having discussed the evidence plac 
ed before him the Enquiry Officer , MW1 concludes his report, Ext. M7 by 
stating , " S " from the above facts I am convinced that these accused are guilty 
of the offences ( charges ) levelled against them " . The Enquiry Officer , MW . 1 
examined Shri G . S , Singh , the Assistant Manager , Shri N . Chakravorty regis 
tcr clerit and six workmen for whom the affected workman and Shri Bisrain 
Roy wer : alleged to have got overtime attendance marked fraudulently by the 
register clerk and procured the overtime slip from the Assistant Manager , 
But Shri G . S . Singh , the Assistant Manager had not even mentioned the name 
of the affected workman in his evidence , On the other hand , he had deposed 
in the cross - examination that it was Shri Bisram Roy who fraudulently got 
the overtime slip signed by him . Shri N . Chakravorty , the register clerk also 
had said nothing against the affected workman . He had stated that he did 
not remember as to which of the either or two ( Sarvashri Bisram Roy and 
Lakha Saw ) gave him the overtime slip . None of the workmen had whispered 
even the name of the affected workman in their evidence . The worlman , Shri 
Bhagirat Kumar had in his evidence that the affected workman had asked him 
to pay him the extra amount received by him and he paid him Rs. 10 . Thus, 
the only evidence before the Enguiry Officer against the affected workman was 
that of the workman , Shri Bhagirat Kumar to the effect that the affected work 
man had asked and received Rs, 10 from him who had received the amount as 
his wages for the overtime which he did not work . The possibility cannot be 
ruled out that having come to know that the workman , Shri Bhagirat Kumar 
had received some easy moncy , the affected workman demanded a share out of 
it . But that does not necessarily give rise to the inference that the affected 
workman himself got the attendance marked fraudulently by the register clerk 
and procured by mis - representation the overtime slip from the Assistant Mana 
ger for the workmen in respect of the overtime which they did not do . Asking 
and receiving money from a workman by itself is not a misconduct within the 
meaning of order 27 of the Standing Orders . Exts . M8 to M13 are said to be 
reports by the workmen produced before the Enquiry Officer . But none if 
them hat any reference to the affected workman , Thus, the finding of the 
Enquiry Officer holding the affected workman guilty of the charge is absolutely 
without any material and as such , it is perverse . The employers were at 
liberty to produce evidence afresh to justify the action taken by them against 
the affected workman . But they did not produce any such evidence , MW . 2 is 
no other than Shri Bishram Roy who was charged and dismissed along with 
the affected workman , but relnstated on his tendering apology . Obviously , he 
is obliged to give evidence favourable to the employers. I cannot accept his 
evidence to any extent. Consequently , the dismissal of the affected workman 
based upon the perverse finding cannot be upheld . The workmen have taken 


- 


- 


2166 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [PART II — 

- - - - - = - - = = = = = 
objections to the domestic cnquiry stating that the affected workman was not 
given opportunity to cross - examine the prosecution witnesses , the statements 
were not read over and explained and opportunity was not given for defence 
evidence . But, having gone through the enquiry proceedings , Ext. M6 and the 
evidence of the Enquiry Officer , MW . 1, I do not find any substance in any of 
the objections. The objections are over - ruled . 

6 . It is in the evidence of the affected workman , ww . 1 that he is a member 
since 8 or 9 years and an Executive Committee Member since 7 or 8 years of 
the Bihar Koyala Mazdoor Sabha and that in respcct of the quarter occupied 
by him the inanagement persistently asked him to vacate it. Ext. W . 1 is a 
letter from the Manager of the colliery to the affected workman and otners 
stating that they had occupied a quarter unauthorisedly , that thev should hand 
over vacant possession of the quarter to the Labour Welfare Officer within 24 
hours and that in default disciplinary action would be taken against them . 
This letter is dated 5th October , 1966 and on the very next day , the charge . 
sheet, M1 was issued to the affected workman . It creates a suspicion that per 
haps the action of the management in issuing the charge - sheet, Ext. Ml which 
ended lil dismissal of the affected workman , was due to his disobedience of the 
direction given to him through Ext. W . 1 and it was with a view to victimise 
him . But, I have already held that the dismissal of the affected workman 
cannot be withhold as it was made on the perverse finding of the Enquiry 
Officer . 


7 . I, therefore, hold that the dismissal of the affected workman , Shri Lekha 
Saw , Stowing fitter , by the management of the Bhowra Colliery with effect 
from the 17th October , 1966 was not justified and , consequently , he is entitled 
to his back wages and other emoluments with effect from 17th October , 1966 
to the date of his actual reinstatement in his original position as a stowing At 
ter. The award is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


( Sd.) N . VE IKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad . 

[No. 23167 - LRII.) 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2044 , — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Kendwadin Colliery of 
Messrs Hurriladih Coal Company Limited and their workmen , which was receiy 
ed by the Central Government on the 14th May, 1969. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

AT DHANBAD 


In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947 . 

REFERENCE NO . 44 OF 1967 
PARTIES: 
Employers in relation to the management of Kendwadih Colliery of Messrs . 
Hurriladih Coal Company Limited 

and 
Their Workmen 
PREŞENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES: 

For the Employers : Shri A . D . Sukla , Group Personnel Officer. 
For the Workmen : Shri La it Burman , 


Sec . 3J1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2167 

- 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal 
Dranbod , dated , the 9th Ma } , 1969 

AWARD 
Th : Carral Government , in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabi 
litatis .) , bas made this l eference to this Tribunal by its crder No. 2 / 100 / 67 -LRII 
dated the 24th October , 1907 for adjudication of an Industrial dispute which has 
becii described in the schedule as follow : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Kendwadih Colliery of Messrs Hurriladih 

Coal Company Limited , Post Office Dhansar were justified in stopping 
their Workman Smt. Radhi Bowrin , Pit Head Bath Kamin from work 
for the period from the 28th July , 1966 to the 4th September , 1966 
and thereafter terminating the services of the said workman with 
effect from the 5th September , 1966 ? If not, to what reliet is the 

workman entitled ? " 
The parties came to terms and they Aled their terms of settlement on the 19th 
January , 1968. According to those terms, Smt, Radhi Bowrin was to get a sum of 
Rs . 1200 as retrenchment compensation on the order of the termination of 
service being treated as an order of retrenchment with effect from the 5th Septem 
ber , 1986 if the Medical Board of the Central Hospital at Dhanbad certifled on 
examining her that she was not suffering from any contegious disease and was 
physically fit for work as Pit Headhath Kamin ( Attendent ) . On the other hand , 
she was to get a sum af Rs. 400 ( Rupees four hundred ) only in full and final 
settlement of all her claims If the Medical Board gave her a certificate to the 
effect that she was physically unfit for work or was sufferiøg from a contegious 
disease . Several attempts have since been made to get Smt. Radhi Bowrin to 
appear for medical examination before the Medical Board of the Central Hospital 
on dates fixed by them but she has never appeared . The result is that no certifi 
cate either to the effect that she is fit or to the effect that she is unft is avail 
able . Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , Bihar Koila Mazdoor Sabha , who 
has throughout appeared for the workman , is present in Court today and so is 
the representative of the management. Shri Burman states that he has done his 
best to contact Smt. Radhi Bowrin but has been unable to do so . 

The Management s representative prays that, since Smt. Radhi Bowrin has 
not appeared for medical examination for more than 15 months from the date of 
agreement, it may be ordered that the management should pay a sum of Rs. 400 / 
( Rupees four hundred ) only to Smt. Radhi Bowrin in full and final settlement of 
all her claims according to term No. 3 of the agreement between the parties. Shri 
Lalit Burman agrees. 

In the result I give my award in accordance with the terms of the settlement 
dated the 19th January , 1968 which will form part of this award . I further direct 
that term No. 3 of he award comes into operation in the circumstances of this 
case , 

Let a copy of this award be submitted to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

( Sd .) KAMLA SAHAI, 

Presiding Officer . 

[No. 2 / 106 /67 -LRII. ) 
New Delhi, the 22nd May 1969 
S . O . 2045. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, No . 3 . Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery of Shri H . I Pathak , Post 
Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad , and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 13th May, 1969. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No . 81 OF 1968 
PRESENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M .A . M .L ., Presiding Officer, 
PARTIES , 
Employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colllery 

Vu, 
Their workmen , 


2168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 (PART II — 

-- - - 
APPEARANCES : 
For employers - Sri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocute and memoer Executive Committee , 

ICO . 
For workmen - Shri Shanker Bose , Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
INDUSTRY ; Coal 

STATE . Bihai. 
Dhanbad , dated the 1st of May , 1969 

AWARD 
1. The Central Government, being of opinion that an Industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the South Govindpur Colliery of Shri H . I. 
Pathak , Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad and their workmen by its order 
No. 2 / 2 / 67-LRII dated the 2nd of February , 1967 referred to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" ( a ) Whether the management of South Govindpur Colliery of Shri H . I. 

Pathak , Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad was justified in dis 
missing from service Shri Ramdutt Singh , Pump Khalasi with effect 
from the 31st October , 1966 in spite of the fact that the case of suspen 
sion of Shri Ramdutt Singh from the 1st August, 1966 was pending 
adjudication before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Dhan 

bad ? 
(b ) If not, to what relleſ is the workman entitled ? 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the refer . 
ence as reference No. 12 of 1967 on its file . While it was pending there the pro 
ceeding was transferred by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 / 67 -LRII 
dated the 8th of May , 1967 to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , 
Dhanbad where it was registered as reference No. 210 of 1967. The Cent al Gov 
ernment by its subsequent order No. 8 / 71 / 68 - LRII dated the 13th of August , 1908 , 
transferred the dispute to this tribunal and here it has been re -numbered as reter 
ence No. 81 of 1968 , 

3 . The employer Aled the written statement on 19th Jonuary , 1968 . Their case 
is that a chargesheet dated 1st August, 1966 Was issued to Shri Ramdutt Singh for 
breaking walls of 14 seam attendance room and stealing away two door leaves along 
with the door frame Atted therein on 27th August , 1966 . Shri Ramdutt Singh sub 
mitted his explanation dated 5th August 1966 denying the charge . In spite of the 
repeated chances Sri Ramdutt Singh refused to attend the departmental enquiry 
and therefore, it was held ex -parte in his absence . In the aforesaid departmental 
enquiry, the misconduct mentioned in the chargesheet was satisfactorily proved and 
he was therefore , dismissed by letter dated 29th October , 1966 with the approval of 
the Agent. 


5 . It was further submitted that the case of suspension was referred to the Tri 
bunal for adjudication by a notification dated 15th of November , 1966 . The dis 
missal of Shri Ramdutt Singh was with effect from 31st October 1966 and as such 
it was not during the penden « y of the adjudication before the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad regarding the case of suspension from 1st August 
1966 . 


6 . The Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh Aled the written statement on 24th 
September, 1968. Their case is that Sri Hamdutt Singh has been working perma 
riently as a Pump Khalasi at South Govindpur Colliery . On the 1st of August, 1966 
the concerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh was chargesheeted and simultaneously 
suspended pending enquiry for an alleged offence of theft of n door beam and for 
breaking of walls . The concerned workman Sri Reindutt Singh denied the charges 
in his reply to the chargesheet . According to the concerned workman the walls 
collapsed due to a storm and while all other materials were taken away by one of 
the contractors , the door beam was left curelessly which he took to his quarter and 
Atted there since there was no door in his quarter. According to the union since 
the quarter in which the door was fitted by the concerned workman belonged to the 
management and also since he had been actuated with a desire to protect the com 
pany s property in a useful manner which involved no motive of theft and that the 
alleged removal of the door beam from an unprotected place to another quarter of 


SEC . 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2169 


the company , could not be considered as theft. According to the union the man 
agement without holding any enquiry into the chargesheet in presence of the con 
cerned workman , dismissed him by letter dated 29th October 1966 . According to 
the union the action of the management in terminating the services of the workman 
concerned was unjustified and was in contravention of the provisions of the Stand 
ing Orders in breach of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act , according to the 
union Sri Ramdult Singh was an active member of the union . The nianagement did 
not like his union activities and dismissed him by way of victimisation . 

7 . On behalf of the management Sri V . H . Thaker , the manager of the colliery 
was examined as a witness and is MW - 1 The management has also Aled 9 items 
of documents which are marked as Ext. M - 1 to M - 9 . The workman has not filed 
any document nor any witness was examined on behalf of the workman , 

8 . The point for consideration in this reference is whether the management was 
justified in dismissing from service Sri Ramdutt Singh , Pump Khalast with effect 
from the 31st October , 1966 

9 . Ext . M - 1 is the chargesheet dated 1st August 1966 . The allegation was that 
the concerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh broke the walls of 14 seam attendance 
room and stole away two door leaves along with the door frame Atted therein on 
28th July 1966 . Ext. M - 2 is the reply to the chargesheet In his reply the con 
cerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh stated that the attendance l oom collapsed due 
to storm after which the corrugated Iron Sheet and other materials of the room 
were taken away by Shri Ramdeo Singh , Contractor and deposited at the office . 
The door beams with the panels were left behind , and since there was er ery chance 
that the same may be taken away by some outsiders and since there was no door 
in his quarter he brought them and Atted in his house and the quarter in which he 
was living is the Company s quarter and door fitted therein remains Company s 
property . 

10 . In his reply to the chargesheet it was admitted that he took away the 
aforesgid materials of the company . His plea was that he Atted the same in his 
quarter which was the property of the management. Ext, M - 3 is the notice of 
enquiry informing the concerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh that the enquiry into 
the chargeshect will be held on 22nd September 1966 at 4 P . M . in the office of the 
Cashier Sri K . B Upadhya. The concerned workman did not attend the enquiry 
on 22nd September 1966 Ext. M - 4 is the another notice issued by tho manager 
fixing the date of enquiry on 26th September 1966 at 1 P .M . Even on that date the 
concerned workman did not appear before the cnquirying officer , 

11 . The evidence discussed abovc goes to show that the racerned workman was 
given an opportunity to defend himself but he cieliberately and without any reason 
able ground absented hi :- self . The management had no alternative but to hold the 
enquiry ex -parte . The concerned workman cannot be allowed to contend that the 
action of the management in holding the enquiry ex -parle was not fair and proper , 

12. The enquiry was conducted by Sri K . B . Upadhya He examined two wit 
nesses viz . Sri Ramdeo Singh and Ramrekha Singh Both of them were eye wit 
nesses of the occurrence. They stated that Ramdutt Singh had broken the wall with 
cross bar and had moved the door leaves. They further stated that the door fitted 
in his quarter is not that of 14 seam attendance room -because the door frame Atted 
in his house are without any paint and marking whereas the door frame and leaves 
of 14 seam attendance room was painted green and “ 14 scam " was written on it , 
The enquirying officer relying on the statement held that the charge was proved and 
he therefore , recommended for dismissal of the concerned workinan , His recom 
mendation was accepted and by letter dated 29th October 1966 he was dismissed by 
the management. 


13 According to the management the concerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh 
after dismissal approached the management and recelved his full and final payment. 
MW - 1 Sri V . H , Thaker , has stated in his evidence that the cash voucher ( Ext. M - 9 ) 
is in his pen , and bears the thumb impression of the concerned workman . Ext. 
M - 9 shows that on 27th April 1969 the concerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh 
received a sum of rupees 200 / - in full and final payment of his dues . The con 
cerned workman Sri Ramdutt Singh has not come to deny this fact. 

14 In this view of the evidence I hold that the management was justified in 
dismissing from service Şri Ramdutt Singh , Pump Khalasi with effect from the 
31st of October , 1966 . 

15 . The second point for consideration is whether the dismissal of the concerned 
workman Sri Ramdult Singh Pump Khalasi with effect from 31st October, 1966 


2170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II 


- 


- - - 


was passed during the period the case of his suspension from the 1st August. 1966 
was pending for adjudication before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad . 

16 . The reference concerning the suspension of Sri Ramdutt Singh , Pump 
Khalasi with effect from the 1st of August , 1966 was referred to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad by the Central Government s order No. 
2 / 149 / 66 -LRII dated the 15th of November, 1966 . The dismissal of Sri Ramdult 
Singh was with ellect from the 31st of October , 1960 and as such it was not during 
the peridency of the adjudication before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad referring the case of suspension of Sri Ramdutt Singh from 1st 
of August, 1966 . 


17 . I therefore , hold that the order of dismissal was not passed during the 
pendency of the reference in connection with the suspension of the concerned 
workman Sri Ramdutt Singh from the 1st of August , 1966 . 

18 . Under the circumstances mentioned above I am satisfied that the dismissal 
of Sri Ramdutt Singh Pump Khalasi was justified . I am unable to find any infirmity 
in the enquiry proceeding or in the report of the enquirying omcer . The concerned 
workman Sri Ramdutt Singh is therefore , not entitled to any relief . 

19 . This is my award . It may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

(Sd.) SACHIDANAND SINHA , 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 2 / 2 / 67 -LR .II. ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd May 1969 
S . O . 2046 , - Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in re 
lation to the Pure Samla Colllery Post Once Nutandanga, District Burdwan and 
their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Post Office Asansol, 
District Burdwan . 

And whereas the said employers and their workmen have by a written agree 
ment, in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitra 
tion by the person mentioned therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agree 
ment has been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now . therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 
26th April , 1969. 


FORM C 
( See Rule 7) 

Agreement 
(Under Section 10A of the I.D . Act 1947 ). 

BETWEEN 
Name of the Parties : 
Representing Employers. — ( 1 ) Shri M . L . Matto , Agent Pure Samla Col 

llery , P . O . Nutandanga , Dist - Burdwan . 
Representingworkmen . — ( 2 ) Shri B . N . Tewari, General Sectary , Colllery 

Mazdoor Sabha , G . T . Road, Asansol. 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dis 
pute to the arbitration of Shri C Prakash Joint Director of Mines Safety , Sita 
rampur No. II Region , Sitarampur, Dist. — Burdwan . 
(1) Specific matter in dispute : 
" Whether the management of Pure Samla Colllery P . O . Nutandanga , Dist , 

Burdwan have got working faces or can provide working faces 


SFC . 3{ ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2171 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


A 


where 23 under ground Machine Loaders under reference can le pro 
vided work , and if so how long ? " 


( 11 ) Details of the parties to the dispute indicating the name and addresses 

of the establishment or undertaking invo ved : 
Employers in relation to Pure Samla Colliery P . O . Nutandanga, Dist. — 

Burdwan , of M / s. Pure Samla Coal Co., ( P . ) Ltd ., The workmen 
represented through the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha (AITUC ) PO 

Asansol, Dist., Burdwan . 
( iii ) Colliery Mazdoor Sabha , P . O . Asansol, Dist., Burdwan . 

( iv ) Total number of workmen engaged in the undertaking affected -- -Appro 
ximate 040 . 

( v ) Estimited number of workmen affected or likely to be ailected by the 
dispute . .. .. 23 . 

The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on us . 

The arbitrator shall make his award within the period of 60 (sixty ) days or 
within such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in 
writing . In case the Award is not made within the period above mentioned , the 
reference to arbitration shall automatically be cancelled and we shall be free 
to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 

Signature of the parties 
( Sd .) M . L . MATTO . 

( Sd . ) B. N . TEKARI, 
Agent, Pure Samla Colliery 

General Secretary 
of M / s. Pure Şamla Coal Co. ( P ) Ltd , 

Colllery Mazdoor Sabha 
P .O . Nutandanga , (Burdwan ) 

PO . Asansol, ( Burdwan ) 
Representing Employer 

Representing the Workmen 
Witnesses ( 1 ) Sd. / - Illigeble 

( 2 ) Sd. / - (lligeble 

[No. 6 / 28 / 69-LRII. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 14th May 1969 
$ . 0 . 2047. - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
National Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad in the Industrial Dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to M / s . A . C . C . Ltd ., and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on 9th May , 1969. 


BEFORE THE NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1A ) of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947. 

N . T . REFERENCE No. 7 OF 1967 
PARTIES , 
The Associated Cement Companies Ltd ., Bombay . 

AND 

Thelr Workmen , 
PRESENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahal. - Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers - Shri R . J. Kolloh , Advocate with SjShri S . N . Cooper 

and G . L . Govil . 
For the Workmen . - Shri C . L , Dudhia , Advocate . 
Indian National Cement Workers Federation : 
All India Cement Workers Federation , - - Shri P . D . Gandhi, Joint Secretary , 

Shri Dharadhar , General Secretary , and Mrs. Mehta , Advocate . 


2172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART ]I 


STATE : Maharashtra 


INDUSTRY : Cenient 


Dated the 25th April, 1969 

AWARD 


By its order No. 17 / 5 / 66 -LRIV dated the 19th October , 1966 , the Central Gov 
ernment, in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation , made this 
reference to the National Tribunal at Bombay for adjudication of the dispute 
described in the schedule as follows: -- 


SCHEDULE 
" In respect of the workmen employed in the Head Omce , Branches and 

Works including Quarries what quantum of bonus should be pald for 

the years 1962 - 63 , 1963 -64 and 1964 -657" 
2 . It was numbered in the Bombay Tribunal as reference No . 2 (NT) of 1967. 
By the Ministry s order No. 17 / 4 / 67 LRIII dated the 5th December, 1967, the 
reference was transferred to the National Tribunal at Dhanbad with me as the 
Presiding Omcer . 


3 . I have heard the parties relating to the dispute as to the bonus payable 
to the workmen for the year 1964 - 65 . I have not yet given my award in respect 
of the bonus for that year and it is still pending . The parties have, however, 
Aled a compromise petition , settling their dispute as to bonus for the years 
1962 -63 and 1963 -64. There was a keen contest as to whether the settlement 
which was supported by the management of the company as well as the Indian 
National Cement Workers Federation and various unions affiliated to that Federa 
lion but was opposed by one section of the Mancherial Cement Workers Emplo 
yees Union was a full and final settlement between the parties . 


4 . Shri Raghu Ramulu , appeared on behalf of that union and contested the 
fact of settlement between the management and the workmen of the companies. 
After contesting the settlement for sometime, Shri Raghu Ramulu withdrew his 
objection . Thereafter , Shri Ramchandran appeared and started contesting the 
settlement. I called upon the parties to adduce evidence on the question of 
settlement. I directed the Mancherial union to give a list of the witnesses as also 
the names of the Factories about which it stated that a settlement had not been 
arrived at . I also directed the union to givc a copy of the list of witness to the 
company which was directed to file its own list of witnesses within 15 days after 
the union Aled its list of witnesses . I also said that the concerned union should 
exchange affidavits of its own witnesses with the affidavits of the companies 
witnesses and that both parties should keep their witnesses ready at the time of 
hearing for cross - examination today in Bombay . At the last hearing , the union 
filed a list of five witnesses but said that it would file another list. It did not 
file any such list. No witness is present on behalf of the union to support the 
allegation that the settlement alleged by the management and the Indian National 
Cement Workers Federation has not been finalised . Shri G . Sanjivayya Reddy , 
President of the Mancherial Cement Works Employees Union , has appeared today 
with a letter from Shri Ramchandran . By that letter , Shri Ramchandran has 
withdrawn his opposition to the settlement between the parties and has prayed 
that an award be made in terms of that settlement. In view of this fact and the 
attitude that Shri Ramchandran has now taken , Shri J . U . Bellani, Advocate , 
appearing on behalf of Mrs . Mehta who has been so far appearing on behalf of 
the All India Cement Workers Federation as well as Shri Dharadhar the General 
Secretary of that Federation , have stated that there is no longer any opposition 
to the settlement. 


5 There is thus , no longer any one to allege that the alleged settlement is 
not full and final. The unions afiliated to the Indian National Cement Workers 
Federation have ratifled the settlement and other unions have entered into sepa 
rate settlements with the company in terms identical to those on which the Federa 
tion arrived at the settlement. 


6 . I consider the settlement to be fair . In accordance with the prayer made 
before me, therefore, I give an award , as prayed for , in accordance with the 
scttlement dated the 27th September , 1967 which will forn part of the award . 


Sec. 3 1i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAIŠTHA 10 , 1891 


2173 


- - 


- - 


This disposes of a part of the reference i.e ., to the extent of bonus for the years 
1962- 63 and 1963 64. 

7 . Let a copy of this award be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. The award for the bonus payable for 
1964 -65 will follow . 

(Sd .) KAMLA SAHAI, 

Presiding Omcer . 
(Original settlement signed on Rupees Three & Filiy paise Stamp paper). 
Settlement under section 2 ( p ), 18 ( 1 ) and 19 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 

as Amended upto date . 
Name of Parties : 
1. The Associated Cement Companies Limited , Bombay 
Represented by : - Mr. K . R . Coorlawala , Personnel Director 

AND 
2. The Workmen employed by the Associated Cement Companies Limited , at 

their various factories : 
Represented by : - Mr. H . N . Trivedi, President, Indian National Cement 
Workers Federation . 

Short recital of the case 
Whereas the Associated Cement Companies Limited (hereinafter called " the 
ACC " or " the Conpany) and its workinen at different units in the country have 
desired to settle disputes by negotiation ; 

Whereas in this tradition all bonus disputes upto and including the year 1961 -62 
have been so settled ; 

Whereas the ACC had declared bonus for the years 1962 -63 and 1963-64 at the 
following rates : 

1962 - 63 2 months basic salary / wages . 

1963 - 64 1 . 8 month s basic salary / wages . 
Whereas the workmen though they accepted and received the bonus under pro 
test and without prejudice but not being satisfied raised disputes ; 

Whereas these disputes together with the disputes for bonus for 1964 -65 have 
been referred to adjudication and have been pending before the National Tribunal 
at Bombay and have been marked as Ref. No. 2 (NT.) of 1966 ; 

Whereas the parties wish to settle the disputes for the years 1962 - 1963 and 
1963 - 1964 ; 

Now therefore in pursuance of the desire for settlement and in line with tradl 
tion , the workmen represented by the Indian National Cenient Workers Federation , 
enter into the following settlement : 

Settlement 
1 In addition to the bonus declared by the Company and received by the work 
men , the Company will pay additional bonus as follows : - - 


U 


Year 


Bonus already declar: d and received 


Additional Bonus 


1962-63 
1963-64 


2 months basic salary wages 
1 . 8 months basic salary /wages 


6 days Basic salary,wages 
9 days Basic salary /wages 


2 . The said bonus will be paid on the usual terms and conditions on which the 
bonus already declared and received for the concerned years has been paid , on 
ratification by the Union or Unions affiliated to the Indian National Cement 
Workers Federation operating at the Works. 

3 . The additional bonus is being paid and is being accepted in full settlement 
against present and future claims regarding bonus for these two years, viz . 1962 -63 
and 1963 -64 . 


2174 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [PART II — 

= - = 
4 . In consideration of this , the parties will apply to the National Tribunal, 
Bombay for passing an award in terms of this Settlement in Reference No . 2 (NT. ) 
of 1966 in so far as the disputes for the years 1962 -63 and 1963-64 are concerned . 

5 . One copy of this settlement will be sent to all the concerned Labour Autho 
rities of the Central and the State Governments . 
Dated . at Bombay this 27th day of Septemler , 1967 . 
For & on behalf of the 

For & on behalf of the 
Associated Cement Cos . Ltd . 

Indian National Cement 

Workers Federation . 
Sd . / - K . R . COORLAWALA , 

Şd / - H . N . TRIVEDI, 
Personel Director 

President. 
Witnesses : 

Witnesses : 
1 Sd ./ - R . H . RANGA RAU, 

1 . SJ . ) - R . G . DESHPANDE , 
2 Sd ./ - G . L . GOVIL , 

2 . Sd )- G . Y . SAMAYAJULU . 

(No. 17 / 5 / 86 / LRIV . ] 


New Delhi, the 15th May 1969 
S . O . 2048 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Ghatkuri Iron Ore Mines of Messrs 
Rungta Mines (Private ) Limited , Post Office Gua, District Singhbhum and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 8th May, 1969 , 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 2 OF 1968 
PRESENT ; 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M . A . M . L , Presiding Officer. 


PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Ghatkurt Iron Ore Mines of Messrs Rungta 
Mines ( P ) Ltd . 

Versus 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES . 

For employers . - Sri S S Mukherjee , Advocate 

For workmen , Shri C . S . Mukherjee, Vice President, U .M .W . Union . 
INDUSTRY : Iron Ore 

STATE : Bihar, 
Dhanbad , dated the 24th of April, 1969 

AWARD 
1 . The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re 
habilitation by their order No. 37 / 3 / 68 -LRI dated the 16th of July , 1968 have 
referred to this tribunal under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Management 
of Ghatkuri Iron Ore Mines of Messrs Rungta Mines ( P ) Ltd . , Post Omce Gua , 
District Singhbhun and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
schedule annexed thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : - - 

SCHEDULE 
**Whether the management of Ghatkuri Iron Ore Mines of Messrs Rungta 

Mines . (Private ) Limited was justified in 20t granting wages as per the 
final recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Iron Ore Indus 

try payable with effect from the 1st January, 1967 ? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 The Secretary , United Mineral Worker s Union filed the written statement on 
the 17th of August , 1968 on behalf of the workmen . Their case is that the manage 
ment has not yet Implemented the Central Wages Board ( for Iron Ore Mining 


- - 


- 


Sec . 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAJSTHA 10 , 1891 2175 . 

- - - - - : - : - - - 
Industry ) final award that has been accepted and declared by the Central Govern 
ment in June, 1967 in spite of the fact that the union and the workmen made several 
representations to the managenient for implementing the same. According to the 
union the Wage Board had taken into consideration the financial condition of the 
management and the financial implication of the recominendations on the industry 
and that recommendations of the Wage Board are justified and are based on sound 
considerations and therefore, the refusal to implement the wage Board recom 
mendations is malafide and unjustified . It is also alleged in the written statement 
that the management has not yet implemented the first and second interim wage 
ricreases awards of the Central Wage Board for Iron Ore Mining Industry . It was 
further alleged that 4 seers of concessional rice at Rs, 1. 37 has been stopped from 
the middle of March , 1967 in spite of protest from workmen . The union therefore , 
prayed that the management be asked to implement the financial recommendations 
of the Wage Board with effect from the 1st of January , 1967 and be also asked to 
pay the arrears of Ist and 2nd interim Wage Board increase immediately and that 
the concessional rice be issued as before . 


3. The employers Aled the written statement on 2nd September 1968. Their case 
is that a substantial portion of the entire production of Iron Ore in the State of 
Bihar and Orissa is exported outside India . For the purposes of export these ores 
are purchased by Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Limited , which 
is a Government of India undertaking. The said Corporation are alone authorised 
and empowered to export Iron Ore outside India . Apart from exporting Iron Ore 
outside India the corporation also supply Iron Ore to Public Sector undertakings, 
and various steel plants of M / s . Hindustan Steel Ltd . at different places by purchas 
ing iron ore from this management and other mine owners. 


4 . Recently a policy appears to have been started by Messrs Hindustan Steel 
Limited to route all their purchases through Minerals & Metuls Trading Corporation 
Lid . The M . M . T . C . has thus for all practical purposes a complete control over Iron 
Orę , Aixes the price from time to time in accordance with their own discretion . Any 
mine owner who desires to sell Iron Ore to the said Corporation has to supply 
them at the price fixed by M . M . T . C . 


5 . The Central Wage Board for Iron Ore Mines made two interim reports during . 
the course of their deliberation . According to the 1st interim reports dated 5th 
February 1964 there was substantial increase in the wages , payable to workmen 
and the incidence of such increase was that the cost of production of Iron Ore went 
up . On representation being made to the M . M . T . C . the purchases price of Iron ore 
was increased . The Central Wage Board subsequently made the second interim 
report dated 12th August 1966 , whereby also there was substantial increase in the 
Wages payable to the workmen . The effect of the said report or recommendation 
of the Wage Board was , that the cost of production of iron ore again went up . The 
mine owners including the present management made representation to M . M . T . C . 
for suitable increase in the purchase price . After consideration of the entire post 
tion the M . M . T . C . increased the purchase price of fron ore with effect from July , 
1966 . This shows that the Government cf India recognised the fact that it was 
heyond the capacity of the management to implement the interim recommendation 
unless there was an increase in the purchase price granted by the M . M . T . C . 


6 . The Wage Board made its final recommendation in February , 1967. The effect 
of the said final recommendation of wage Board would be to increase the cost of 
production of iron ore by about another Rs. 5 . 92 per tonne over and above the 
previous increases . It was therefore, urged on behalf of the management that 
with the present purchase price obtained from the principal buyers namely 
M . M . T . C . and M / s . Hindustan Steel Ltd ., it is not possible to implement the Wage 
Board Recommendation . According to them unless M . M . T . C . makes a reasonable 
price increase the implementation of the Wage Board recommendation is not 
possible. 

7 . In brief the case of the management is that the management is not in a posi 
tion to bear the burden of Wage Board recommendation till the price of the ore is 
suitably increased by M . M . T . C . and other suppliers. 

8 . Matter arising out the interim wage increase and restoration of concessional 
rice are outside the scope of the present reference . 

9 . The employers have examined one witness (MW - I ) Sri R . Ç . B . Srivastava , 
their Chief Mining Engineer . He has proved the Wage sheets (Ext. M - 1) . On : 
behalf of the workmen two witnesses have been examined viz . Sri Badn Munda 
(WW - 1 ) and Francis (WW - 2 ). 


2176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II — 


- - 


- 


- 


. . 


10 . The united Mineral Worker s union in their written statement have raised 
the disulę regarding the first and second interim increases of the Wage Board re 
commendation and they have also raised dispute regarding restoration of the 
supply of concessional rice . But they are outside the scope of the present reference , 

11 . In construing the terms of the retererice and in determining its scope the 
tribunal must look at the order of reference itsell. The award must be confined 
strictly to the terms of the reference and must never extend beyond those terms. 

12 . In the instant case we have to consider only the justification of the manage 
ment in not granting wages as per the final recommendation of the Central Wage 
Board for Iron Ore Industry payable with effect from the lst January , 1967 . There 
fore, the point for consideration is whether the management was justified in not 
Implementing the Anal recommendation of the Wage Board . 

13 . The stand taken by the management before me is that the management has 
agreed to implement the recommendations of the Wage Board with elect from the 
first January , 1967. According to the management in their written statement they 
had expressed their inability to implement the Wage Board recommendation mainly 
on the ground that there was no increase oť price by the M . M . T . C . But since then 
the M . M . T . C . have agreed to bear the part of the impact that will accrue on the 
implementation of the Anal recommendation of the Wage Board for the Iron Oie 
Mining Industry . 


14 . MW - 1 Sri R . C . B , Srivastava has filed the wage sheet (Ext. M - 1 ) showing 
that the final recommendation of the Wage Board has been implemented . He has 
further stated in his evidence that even the arrears have been paid according to 
the final recommendation of the Wage Board upto 30th September , 1968 . 


15 . The further stand of the management is that they have negotiated the 
dispute regarding implementation of the Wage Board reconimendation with Singh 
bhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat and they have come to a settlement and that the 
same may be accepted and an award in terms of the joint settlement may be 
passed . This was objected to by United Mineral Workers Union which espoused 
the cause of the workmen and which is a party to the proceeding. It was sub 
mitted before me that Singhbhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat has got no locus 
standi to settle the dispute and that the Singhbhụm Mazdoor Panchayat cannot 
enter into settlement with the management since it was not a party to the dispute . 
It was submitted before me on behalf of the United Mineral Workers Union that 
there was differences oſ opinion regarding interpretation and details of implemen 
tation as given in the settlement entered between the employers and the Singn 
bhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat specially in respect to the categorisation of the 
workmen and work load . Therefore , it was submitted before me that it will not 
be proper to enforce the settlement since it is also not just and equitable and 
beyond the scope of the reference . The Singhbhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat is 
not a party to the dispute and moreover a settlement with this union will be a 
settlement only with one section of the workmen . The compromise can only bind 
those who are party to it. The Singhbhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat is not a 
party to the dispute . It is therefore , not possible to adopt this compromise as it 
would not be proper one from the point of the entire workmen Therefore , I am 
not prepared to adopt the compromise entered into by the management and the 
Singhbhum Khan Mazdoor Panchayat. 


16 . In this case I And that the management has agreed to implement the 
recommendation of the Wage Board recommendation for Iron ore Mining Industry 
with effect from the 1st January , 1967. The evidence of MW - 1 shows that Anal 
recommendation of the Wage Board has been inplemented and the piece rated 
workers are being paid wages according to the figgl recormcndation of the Wage 
Board and that even arrears have been paid upto 30th September , 1968 . There 
fore , no dispute exists between the parties regarding the implementation of the 
Anal Wage Board recommendation for the Iron Ore Mining Industry payable with 
effect from the 1st of January , 1967 and I record a NO DISPUTE award between 
the parties . 


17. This is my award . It may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . 


( Sd . ) SACHIDANAND SINHA, 

Presiding Officer, 
[ No . 37 / 3 / 68-LRI.] 


- - - 


SEC. 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2177 

= : = 

= = = 
S . O . 2049. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Art, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the matter of an applica 
tion under section 33A of the said Act from Shri Baldeo prasad Verma c / o the 
General Secretary , Choona Mazdoor Sangh , Maihar , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 8th May , 1969 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated : 25th April, 1969 
PRESENT ; 
Shri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Officer . 

CASE NO . CGIT /LC ( A ) (14) OF 1988 (U /S 33- A I. D . AÇT) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Baldeo Prasad Verma C / o The General Secretary , Choona Mazdoor 
Sangh , Maihar - Applicant. 

Vs. 
Messrs. Diwan Lime Company , Maihar - Opposite Party . 

CASE No. CGIT / LC ( B ) (6 ) OF 1969 ( U / S 33 ( 2 ) (b ) I. D . ACT) 
PARTIES : 
Messrs. Diwan Lime Company, 1/ 1, Deshbhandu Gupta Road, New Delhi-- 

Applicant. 


Vs, 


Shri Baldeo Prasad Verma C / o The General Secretary , Choona Mazdoor 

Sangh , Maihar - Opposite Party . 
APPEARANCES : 
For Applicant - Shri R . D . Nigam , General Secretary, Choona Mazdoor, 

Sangh , Maihar . 
Opposite Party - Shri R , N , Rai, Officers of the Association of Industrial and 
Commercial Employers, New Delhi. 

DISTRICT : Satna ( M .P .) . 


ORDER 
These are two cases between the same parties and arise out of one and the 
same transactions. Facts being short and simple are as follows : 


The complainant in Case No. 14 of 68 under Section 33- A is Shri Baldco 
Prasad Verma who was employed at the Malhar Office of the opposite party 
Messrs . Diwan Lime Company , Maihar as an Accountant or Accounting Clerk . 
The head office of the company is at Delhi. The company is owned by a trust 
known as Diwan Chand Trust. In early June, 1968 the complainant was called 
to Delhi Head Office for reconciliation of accounts . On 10th of June, 1968 he 
wanted to go back to his home at Maihar but as some work was outstanding 
he remained their till 17th June , 1968. On his representing that his mother was 
seriously ill he was allowed to go on leave on 17th June, 1968 even though , 
according to the management, he had not completed the entire work entrusted 
to him and had refused to accept a letter dated 17th June, 1968 to that affect. 
A registered letter , dated 19th June, 1968 , however, was then sent to him drawing 
his attention to the lapses . Be that as it may, tho complainant remained on 
leave till 31st August, 1968 , he having sent applications on the ground of his 
own illness which was stated to be Tuberculosis and in support of which he had 
sent a medical certificate . The General Manager of the company at Delhi, Shri 
A . K . Juhar intimated that he would be permitted to rejoin only on furnishing 
certificate of fitness from a qualified doctor . The complainant appeared at Head 
Office Delhi on 2nd September , 1968 as 1st September , 1968 was Sunday and 
produced a medical certificate of a doctor which was not considered sufficient 
by the General Manager . He directed that the applicant should subject himself 
to medical examination by Chief Medical Officer of a Government hospital or a 
Civil Surgeon and the company was prepared to meet expenses. The complainant 


2178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART 1] 


- - - 


was not prepared to comply with that order and there is difference of versions 
about subsequent happening between the management and the complainani, 
According to the complainant, he was neither al owed to rejoin at the Head Office 
Delhi nor at the original office of employment at Maihar, He sent various com 
munications to the management and three ou inese letitis uated Srd September 
1968 , 25th September , 1968 anci 2nd October , 1968 contain certain passages which 
the management considered to be derogatory and insulting. The management, 
therefore, chargeshceted the coinplainant by Charge -shicet dated 20th October 
1968 and ordered a domestic enquiry to be conducted by Shri B . D . Kalla who is 
incharge of Diwan Lime Company with its various units at Mathar , Jukehi Satna 
and Katni. He conducted the enquay proceedings on 18th November , 1968 and 
submitted a report . Before, howeve . , an order of dismissal was recorded which 
was made on 1st February , 1969 by the Secretary of the Trust, Shri Hansraj 
Gupta , the complainant Aled this application under Section 33 - A I. D . Act because 
of pendency of two reference cases Nos. 49 and 50 of 1968 on the grounds that 
there has been a breach of Section 33 on the part of the management and he was 
a concerned workman in the reference cases . The management Aled a reply and 
took preliminary objections that there was no termination of service for misconduct 
and subsequently Section 33 was not attracted . It was also disputed that the com 
plainant was a concerned workman in the reference cases Nos . 49 and 50 of 1968 
pending before this Tribunal. Another preliminary Objertion taken was that the 
court has no jurisdiction because of the cause of action arose at Delhi. On merits 
also , on basis of facts broadly stated above , the application was opposed though 
it was also contended that the management was still prepared to allow the com 
plainant to resume duty on furnishing the medical certificate as required and 
which was quite a justified condition on their part . 


After the application had been Aled by the complainant and the management 
decided to dismiss him on 1st February, 1969 as a result of domestic enquiry for 
charges of using derogatory language, they filed the application for approval 
under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) on 1st February, 1969. In para 16 of the application it 
was stated that the company was moving the application by way of abundant cau 
tion and without admitting that the employee was a concerned workman , This 
obviously was based on the authority of the Supreme Court Case Tata Iron and 
Steel Co . vs. D . R . Singh reported in 1965 - II - LLJ p . 122 . Baldeo Prasad Verma 
opposed the application and Aled a reply . In case under Section 33 - A Case No. 
( A ) ( 14 ) /68 ] Issues were framed on hearing rendered on 17th March , 1963, No issues 
were framed in the case under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) [Case No. ( B ) ( 6 ) / 69 ) . When the 
hearing commenced on 10th April , 1969 , since both the cases were found to relate 
to one transaction and the parties were common , they were ordered to be conso 
licated and Case No. 14 of 1968 under Section 33- A was made the leading case 
After evidence had been recorded , both oral and documentary , adjournment was 
allowed to the management for producing one witness Shri A . K . Jauhar , the 
General Manager, which the management did on 23rd April , 1969 . After the 
evidence was concluded and the arguments were heard on that dati, case was 
adjourned for hearing of arguments on the following date viz ., 24th April , 1969 . 
Before the arguments were , however, concluded the management field an applica 
tion withdrawing their application under Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) as they thought that 
Section 33 was not attracted . A party has a fundamental right to withdraw his 
application and the Tribunal has no power no compel him not to do so . There is 
nothing in law to prevent an employer from withdrawing his application made 
under proviso to Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) when the employer Ands that the application had 
been made under a mis - apprehension (vide Burrakar Coal Co . Ltd . vs . Gurbachan 
Singh - XXV - FJR P , 249 ) . That being so , there is no necessity left to determine 
the question of charge- sheet dated 25th October, 1968 and subsequent action of the 
management in dişmissing Baldeo Prasad Verma. The deterimination is now con 
Aned to the case of the complainant Verma under Section 33 - A . It is needless to 
reproduce all the issues framed in the case as on two preliminary objections only 
the complaint falls. 


In the first place , even assuming all the averments made by the complainant 
In the complaint to be correct, it is manifest that there had been no punishment, 
dismissal or discharge by mere refusal of the management to take him back on 
duty . He had not been dismissed at all . In none of the communications of the 
management, they treated the absence and non - compliance with the order to 
submit the medical certificate of the Chief Medical Officer or Civil Surgeon as 
tantamount to disobedience of order and in consequence thereof to treat the 
absence as termination . As a matter of fact, for refusal to comply with the 


Suc, 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2179 


order, Verma was not chargesheeted at all . He was chargesheeted and dismiss 
ed subsequently on the basis of some language used by him in some of his com 
munications, a question which does not arise for consideration now as the man . 
agement have withdrawn their application under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) I. D . Act. When 
there has been no punishment for any misconduct , whether by dismissal or 
otherwise , Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) I. D . Act is not attracted. All what the management 
did was to insist on medical examination by Chief Medical Officer of a hospital 
or Civil Surgeon at their expense. Whether this was justified or not is not a 
matter to be considered in these proceedings. All that has to be seen is whether 
there has really been any termination by way of punishment or discharge or 
disinissal for any misconduct . This , on thc facts as stated by the complainant 
himself, is not the case here. Even if he had been suspended for non - compli 
ance of the order , that would not have been treated as a punishment so as to 
attract Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) I. D . Act as held by the Hon ble Supreme Court in the 
case, Sasamusa Sugar Mills Pvt. Ltd . Vs, Subarati Khan - A . I. R . 1959 ( S . C . ) 
p . 923. This is one aspect of the matter. 


Another fact which the complainant Verma failed to establish was that he 
was a concerned workman in reference cases Nos . 49 and 50 of 68 , Case No. 
CGITLC ( R ) (50 ) of 68 is irrelevent as the company, Ms. Diwan Lime Company 
is not in the schedule of employers . Case No. CGITLC ( R ) (49 ) of 68, however, 
has a bearing as the dispute in that case which relates to the grant of interim 
relief as recommended by the Wage Board , is between workers in relation to 
quarries of the management of employers mentioned in the schedule , Mís. Diwan 
Lime Company is one of the employers . The dispute in that case was raised by 
Choona Mazdoor Sangh but unless it could be shown that Verma was member 
of the union when demand was made and also when reference was made he 
would not be a concerned workman . The record of case No. 49 of 68 would 
show that the union raised the demand in December , 66 and the reference was 
made on 3rd September , 68 . Verma had to establish that he had a substanting 
interest by remaining a member of the union both at the time of demand and 
reference . He gave no evidence on the point. No document was flled to show 
that he had been a member of the union at the relevant tinie . Even in his state 
ment he said nothing on the point. After cross - examination was over the Tribu 
nal questioned him on the subject and in reply to which he stated that he was a 
member oť the union , Choona Mazdoor Sangh from 1965 -66 . He stated that he still 
was a member of the union but admitted that he sometimes defaulted in paying 
subscription . In the absence of any proof that he was a member of the union 
at the relevant time, namely when the demand was made as also when reference 
was made in reference Case No. 49 of 68, he cannot be held to have been a con 
cerned workman in the reference , especially so when the reference relates to 
workers in the quarries by the employers. It was for him to have established 
how he was a concerned workman . Having failed to do so , the complaint is not 
maintainable . 


Decision . - - The result is that Case No . CGIT / LC ( B ) ( 6 ) of 69 under Section 
33 ( 2 ) (b ) is dismissed for want of prosecution on the part of the company . Case 
No. CGIT, LC ( A ) ( 14 ) of 68 under Section 33 - A filed by Shri Baldeo Prasad 
Verma against the company is also dismissed as Section 33 I. D . Act is not 
attracted 
No order for casts. 

(Sd.) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer. 

25 - 4 - 1969. 
(No. 36 / 17 / 89 -LRI. ] 


S . O . 2050 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Indian Lapso 
Kyanite Mine of Messrs Indian Copper Corporation Limited , Ghatsila and their 
workman , which was received by the Central Government on the 12th May, 1969 . 


2180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ Part II 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947, 

REFERENCE No. 10 OF 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Lapso Kyanite Mine of M / s . Indian Copper Corpo 

ration Ltd ., Ghatsila , 


AND 

Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers.-- Shri K . C . Goel, Legal Officer . 
For the Workmen . - Shri Mahendra Lal Soy, Asstt. Secretary , Mine Workers 

Union , Bihar . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY ; Kyanite . 
Delhi, dated the 30th April , 1969 

AWARD 
The Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation of the Government of 
India has made this reference vide its order No. 24 / 36 / 66 LRI dated the 9th Sep 
tember, 1966 to this Tribunal for adjudication of an industrial dispute described 
in the schedule attached to the reference as follows: 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of the Lapso Kyanite Mine of 

Messrs Indian Copper Corporation Limited , Post Office , Ghatslla , in 
dismissing 8 workmen as per list given below , from service with 
effect from the 2nd June , 1966 amounts to an act of victimisation , 
If so , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

List of workmen . 
1 . Shri Moti Singh - - B , No 1469 . 
2 . Smt. Birang - B . No. 1090 . 
3 . Smt. Chandmont - B . No. 1108 . 
4 . Shri Sukra - B . No. 580 . 
5 . Shri Songaram - B . No . 2101. 
6 . Shri Raghu - B . No. 675 . 
7. Shri Tanko - B , No. 1480 . 
8 . Shri Gopi - B . No. 1007. 


2 . After the reference was made to this Tribunal, the Ministry transferred it 
to the Tribunal at Jabalpur vide its order No. 825 67 - LR - II dated the 25th April, 
1967, where it was numbered as Ad ). Reference No . 89 of 1967. Thereafter, the 
reference was again transferred to this Tribunal as per the Ministry s order 
No. 24 / 38 / 66 -LRI dated the 3rd February , 1968 . On receipt of the reference this 
time, It has been numbered as reference No . 10 of 1968. 


3 . It appears that this reference was originally made at the instance of the 
General Secretary , Mine Workers Union , Bihar, C / o , Mohbhandar Mazdoor Union , 
P . O . Ghatsila (Singhbhum ) . In spite of several efforts, the General Secretary of 
the Mine Workers Union , Bihar, has not appeared . Shri Mahendra Lal Soy has 
appeared instead . He claims to be the Asstt. Secretary of the Mine Workers 
Union , Bihar but Shri Goel has contested this statement on behalf of the manage . 
ment. All the concerned workers , however , expressed their wish to be represent 
ed by Shri Soy and they appeared to be members of the Lapso Group of Kyanite 
Mine Workers Union , Shri K . C . Goel showed a paper which bore the signature of 
Shri Soy in the capacity of the General Secretary of the Lapso Group of Kyanite 


SEC . 3(ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2181 
ASZ = 

= 

SSSSSSS 
Mine Workers Union . I therefore , permitted Shri Soy to represent the workers 
in question in this case . 

4 . The case against six of the workers namely , Sukra ( B . No. 580 ), Songaram 
( B . No . 2101 ) , Raghu ( B . No . 675 ) , Suit. Chandmani ( B . No. 1108 ) , Tanko ( B . No. 
1480 ) , and Gopi ( B . NO. 1007) is that on 2nd May , 1966 , at about 6 - 15 hours , they 
formed an unlawful usernbly along with 20 other persons hy blocking the road 
nejr the junction of two roads, one from the Indian Copper Corporation camp 
and another from Chandrapura Depo leading to the quarry , and that, further , 
they took leading part in obstructing vehicle No . BRT. 5899 and No. BRX - 308 in 
which the Kyanite Superintendent, the Quarry Manager - cum -Asstt. Kyanite 
Superintendent, Welfare Officer and the Quarry Foreman were proceeding on 
work towards the Quarry . It was with a great deal of difficulty that they let the 
vehicle go . 

5 . The case against Shri Moti Singh and Smt. Birang , the other two workers , 
is that, at about 9 - 15 A . M . on the 2nd May , 1966 , Moti Singh snatched away the 
Quarry Office keys from the hands of Shri Gulab Singh , Time Keeper , when he 
was handing them over to the Kyanite Superintendent and that in spite of being 
told by the Kyanite Superintendent to return the keys, be refused to do so and 
passed them on to Smt. Birang who also refused to return them . 

6 . All the eight workinen were served with charge - sheets on the 3rd May, 1960 
on the basis of the allegations mentioned above . All the eight workmen submitted 
explanations in which they generally stated that they were on strike on the 2nd 
May , 1966 , that they did not enter the company s premises on that date and that 
the provisions of the certified standing orders were, therefore, not applicable to 


them . 


7 . Shri K , C . Goel was appointed to be the enquiring Officer . In the enquiry 
against Moti Singh and Smt. Birang, Shri Tulsidas appeared on behalf of the 
company . He examined Shri S . A . Şiddique, the Kyanite Superintendent and Shri 
Gulab Sirigh , Time keeper. Since neither of them was cross- examined by 
the two charged workmen , Shri Tulsidas closed the evidence , saying that the 
other witnesses would only corroborate the statement of these two witnesses and , 
since the first two witnesses were not cross - examined , it was unnecessary to 
examine other witnesses . In the enquiry against the other six workmen , Chand 
mani did not appear in spite of service of notice upon her twice . The other 
accused workmen were present. Witnesses were examined in their presence , 
None of them , however , cross - examined the witnesses . None of them gave his 
own statement or produced any witness . The evidence given before Shri Goel 
was interpreted by Shri Dularam Ho, a man who knows the Ho Language . He 
interpreted the evidence of witnesses given in Hindi in Ho language at the enquiry 
against Moti Singh and Smt. Birang. In the other enquiry , the interpreter was 
Shri Pradhan Gagrai who is now dead . 

8 . The accused workmen did not put their signatures or thumb impressions on 
the evidence of the witnesses which was recorded against them . They refused to 
do so on the ground that as Police proceedings had been started against them , 
they were not prepared to affix their signatures or Thumb Impressions. Their 
version before the Tribunal is that they did not put their signatures or thumb 
impressions because the records of the evidence were not read over to them by 
their own men . This seems to me to be obviously incorrect because it does not 
appear that they ever protested that the evidence against them should be inter 
preţated by some one other than Pradhan Gagraị and Dularam Ho. It may be 
mentioned that both these men were employees of the company . 

9 . Three witnesses have been examined before me, two on behalf of the 
workmen and one on behalf of the management. One witness namely Dularam 
Ho has filed an affidavit , supporting the case of the management He has been 
tendered and has been cross - examined by Shri Mahendralal Soy . 


10 . Ragho, W . W . 1 and Tanko , W . W . 2 are both workmen who have been dis 
missed . They are clearly interested witnesses . Ragho , W . W , 1 , has stated that 
he stated to the management that he would not sign any paper without knowing 
"what exactly was written on it. This is , however , falsified by the fact that he 
admits that he put his thumb impression upon the chargesheet and its reply with 
out, as he says, understanding what reply was given on his behalf. He says that 
Shri Pradhan Gagraí was not present in the enquiry but he is contradicted by Shri 
Tanko , W . W . 2 . Ragho says that he gave a reply to the chargesheet 011 the in 
struction of his union but as I have just mentioned , he has said that he gave he 


2182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II — 


thumb impression on the reply to the charge - sheet without understanding its con 
texts. The fact that an enquiry was undoubtedly held by Shri Goel is proved by 
the admission of Shri Tanko himself when he says that Şarl Goel çut questions to 
him and asked him whether he had obstructed the progress of the car and he 
replied that he had not obstructed it. Tanko says that no one explained the 
evidence to him but this must be incorrect because Dularam Ho as well as Shri 
K . C . Goel have said that the evidence was interpreced to the accused workmen . 
Tanko admits that, when he was asked to cross - examine witnesses , he said that 
he had nothing to say . Having carefully considered the evidence Adduced on 
behalf of the workmen , I am not prepared to believe it . On the other hand , there 
seems to be no reason to disbelieve the evidence of Shri K . C . Goel or Shri Dula 
ram Ho . 

11 . It is note -worthy that the words of the reference in this case place the 
onuş of proving victimisation upon the workmen . I do not think that I could 
have come to a Anding in favour of the workmen even if this had been a case of 
a reference in which the management had been asked to justify the dismissal of 
the workmen . But the wording of the reference being as it is , it is even more 
difficult to come to a conclusion in favour of the workmen , 

12 . I am satisfied that Shri Goel s enquiry was regular and legal. His con 
clusion that the workmen were guilty was also justified . In these circumstance , 
I hold that the action of the management of the Lapso Kyanite Mine of M / s . 
Indian Copper Corporation Limited in dismissing eight workmen in accordance 
with the list given in the schedule docs not amount to an act of victimisation . 
The workmen are , therefore, not entitled to any relief. 

13 . This is my award . Let a copy of this award be sent to the Central Gov 
ernment under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

( Sd .) KAMLA SAHAI, 

Presiding Officer. 
[ No. 24 / 36 / 66 -LRI. ] 


S . O . 2051.- - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi in the Industrial Dispute between 
the employees in relation to the Ruby General Inşurance Company Ltd ., Delhi and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on 9th May, 1969 . 

BEFORE THE CENTRAI, GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 
PACSENT : 
Shri R . K . Baweja , Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, 

19th April, 1969 
C .G .I. D . No. 6 OF 1968 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Ruby General Insurance Company Ltd ., 

Delhi, 


AND 


Their workinan . 
Shri Harish Chandra -- for the management, 
Shri Avtar Singh - for the workman . 


AWARD 


Vide Order No . 25 / 10 / 68 / LR , III, dated the 26th July , 1968 , the Central Govern 
ment, in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) , referred the following industrial dispute existing 
between the employers in relation to the Ruby General Insurance Company Ltd . , 
Delhi and their workman for adjudication to this Tribunal: 
“ Whether action of the management of the Ruby General Insurance Com 

pany Limited , Delhi in terminating the employment of Shri P . P . 
Chopra with effect from the 17th July , 1967 was justified ? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled ? " 


SEC. 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAIŞTHA 10, 1891 


2183 


2 . In the statement of claim Aled by the workman , it was alleged that in pur 
suance of an advertisement given by the inanagement in the Hindustan Times for 
the post of Stenorgrapher in its office at Delhi, he submitted an application on 
the same day and thercafter he was called for Interview on the 24th of May , 1966 . 
He satisfied the management with regard to his proficiency in Stenography and 
requested it that he wanted to be absorbed permanently and not for one year and 
that his name may be considered only if this request was acceded . The manage 
ment, it is stated , appreciated his point and told him that it would refer the 
matter to its head office at Calcutta . After sometime, he receivel another com 
munication dated 23rd of June, 1966 from the management informing him that it 
had received a reply to the above effect from the hcad office and that he should 
attend its office immediately . He attended and it is alleged that it informed him 
that the head office had given up the idea of keeping him for only one year and 
that he would be engaged permanently . Thereafter , he joined as Stenographer on 
the 18th of July , 1966 at a monthly salary of Rs. 307. No letter of appointment was 
issued to him and towards the end of March , 1967 he requested It to give him the 
same. The management hesitated and the workman took up the matter regarding 
the issuance of the appointment letters with the Delhi Administration in the depart 
ment of labour. The inspector under the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 
checked the establishment of the management and directed it to issue the letters 
of appointment to its employees as required under the said Act. It was thus 
compelled by the labour authorities to issue appointment letters to its emplo 
yees including the concerned workman . The concerned workman received the 
appointment letter only on the 26th June, 1967 . It is alleged by the workman that 
the management got annoyed on account of this and illegally , arbitrarily and in 
a mala fide manner dispensed with his services on the 17th of July , 1967, to 
which he protested . It was stated that this manner of dispensing with 
his services without holding an enquiry or giving him a show - cause notice was 
violative of the principles of natural justice and was void . He, therefore , pray 
ed that he be reinstated with full back wages and all the benefits to which he 
was entitled . 


3 . The management in its written statement admitted that he was employed 
with effect from the 18th of July , 1966 but it was added that he was on praba 
tion for twelve months. The terms and conditions of his appointnient which 
were in keeping with the staff rules as then in force were accepted by him in 
writing inasmuch as he signed an application form and his appointinent was 
inade in terms thereof. It was further avered that on the completion of his 
period of probation the management in the exercise of its right was competent 
to terminate his services without holding an enquiry or issuing a show - cause 
notice . The allegation that he had been victimised out of anger or in any mala 
fide manner was denied . 

4 . I may mention at the very outset that formerly this dispute was referred 
for adjudication to the Labour Court, Delhi by the Delhi Administration . As the 
management raised a technical objection there that the appropriate Government 
to refer the dispute was the Central Government and not the Delhi Administra 
tion , it was withdrawn by the workman and it was conceded that this with 
drawal did not debar the Central Government, in any manner, to refer the same 
industrial dispute to this Tribunal. 

5 . It is not disputed that the management gave an advertisement in the Hindus 
tan Times on the 1st of May, 1966 for the post of Stenographer, though a copy of 
that advertisement has not been placed on the record . In pursuance thereto , the 
concerned workman submitted an application to the management for the said 
post . He was called for interview by it on the 21st of May, 1966 vide Ext. W / 1 . 
There , it is stated , he requested the officers who Interviewed him that he might 
be considered for permanent absorption and not for a period of one year, though 
this is denied by Shri G . S . Pangharia , regional accountant who appeared as 
MW1 for the management. There is nothing to show that such a request was 
made in writing by the workman , but the fact remains that as a result of the 
Interview on the 24th of May , 1968 , some matter was referred to the head office 
as is indicated in the communication dated 23rd of June , 1966 sent by it to the 
workman , a copy of which has been placed on the record as Ext. W / 2 . On the 
14th of July , 1966 another communication Ext. W / 3 was received by him to 
attend its office immediately in connection with his appointment. The workman 
states that he attended the office and then he was appointed as Stenographer on 
the 18th of July , 1966 and he was told that his appointment was permanent. It 
Is admitted that no letter of appointment was issued to him . The corresoon 
dence which took place between the regional manager and the head office about 


2184 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [PART II 

SSS - S 
the appointment of the workman has not been placed on the record . The con 
tention of the workman is that in that correspondance the regional manager 
sought the approval of the head office to his appointment on permanent basis 
and this is the matter of which a reference was made in Ext. W / 2 , On behalt 
of the management on the other hand it was argued that the approval which it 
sought from its head office was for his appointment on probation . The manage 
ment has withheld that correspondence and 80 it can be safely presumed that 
It had produced that, it would have gone against it. If only the approval was 
to be sought from the head office about the appointment of the workman on 
probation , then it would have been so stated in the letter Ext. W / 2 and the word 
"matter " would not have been used . Subsequently , on the 21st of July , 1986 , a 
cyclostyled proforma was given to him and he was asked to sign It vide Ext. M / 1 . 
It relates to the terms and conditions of his appointment. In this algo , it was 
nowhere mentioned that he was on probation for one year . In the meantime 
when no letter of appointment was issued to him about his permanent absorp 
tion , he became restive . He moved the office of the Labour Commissioner with 
the request that the management be airected to issue letters of appointment to 
its employecs . In this conneclion , the correspondence which passed between him 
and the labour authorities may kindly be perused vide Exts. W / 5 , W / 6 , W / 7 , 
W / 8 and W / 9 He also wrote to the management on the 2nd of April, 1967 for 
the issuance of letter of appointment and for the first time in its reply dated 17th 
April, 1967, he was informed that he was appointed on probation for one year 
with effect from the 18th of July , 1966 vide Ext. M / 5 . The labour inspector took 
the case with the management and brought to its notice that under the Delhi 
Shops and Establisment Act , 1954 and the rules framed thereunder, the issuance 
of a letter of appointment was necessary . In obedience to that direction a letter 
of appointment was issued to him on the 26th of June , 1967 which is Ext. W / 4 . 
In this letter also , there is no mention that he had been appointed on probation 
for a period of one year . The learned counsel for the management contended 
that this letter of appointment was on a form prescribed under the Delhi Shops 
and Establishment Act, 1954 and the rules framed thereunder and as there was 
no clouinn in the prescribed form to indicate lf an employee was a probationer 
or a permanent onc, this was not so mentioned . It is so , but under the said Act 
or the rules framed thereunder , it is not prohibited that an employee who is on 
probation cannot be shown as such . So neither in the letter of appointment nor 
in the terms and conditions of service which the workman signed or in the other 
correspondence hefore his appointment, he was shown as probationer . All this 
cvidence lends support to the version of the workman that at the time of Interview , 
he agreed to his being appointed with the management, provided he was absorbed 
permanently . That appears to be the correct position and has to be accepted . 


6 . My attention was drawn by the learned counsel for the management to 
the staff rules of which a copy has been placed on the Ale as Ext. M / 2 . Rule 5 
of these rules provides that, an employee shall be on probation for a period of 
twelve months . In the terms and conditions of service Ext. M / 1 , 4 was howhere 
mentioned that the appointment of the workman was subject to the staff rules. 
So, it cannot be said that he know about the contents of these rules . Even if 
he knew about them , unless it was mentioned in the terms and conditions of his 
Service which formed the basis of contract between him and the management, 
effect could not he given to them . Mere knowledge that the staff rules provide 
the appointment of an employee on probation at the start will not prove that he 
accepted that condition . On the other hand the evidence , as I have already dis 
cussed above, revcals that the employee at the very outset brought to the notice 
of the management that he should only be considered if his appointment was on 
permanent basis and not for a period of one year , 


7. My attention was also drawn by the learned counsel for the management 
to copies of letters Exts . M / 10 to M / 42. The workman states that he was not 
paid any overtime dues though he was asked to do its private work not connect 
ed with its own allairs. He kept copies of the letters typed for the Sikanderia 
Works and other private work of the management and he states that on one of 
these documents Ext. W / 10, the corrections are in the hand of the regional 
manager of the management. Vide his letter dated , the 2nd of April, 1967 he 
demanded remuneration for the extra work put in by him but he did not receive 
any reply . He states that this was also a cause of annoyance to the management 
because it did not like to pay him for the extra work which he did for the other 
concerns. Nothing was said by Shri GSP and Panghaiia . MW1 in b s statement 
but a suggestion was put to the workman in his cross - examination that he had re 
movert these copies , ( Exts . W / 10 to W /44 ) , from the files of the other employees 


SEC . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAIȘTHA 10 , 1891 


2185 


who were doing the extra work . If the workman had removed these copies from 
the Ales of his co -workers, they should have been produced by the management 
and a report should have been lodged with the police against the workman for 
committing a theft So , to me it appears that while doing this extra work , the 
workman was clever enough to keep copies of the letters with him so that he 
would be able to claim overtime allowance. His demand for the overtime 
allowance coupled with his insistence for the issuance of the appointment letters 
to him and to his co-workers , secms to have annoyed the management and in 
order to victimise him , his services were terminated without even issuing i show 
cause notice or holding an enquiry in spite of the fact that he was a permanent 
employee . 

8 . For the aforesaid reasons, I hold that the termination of his services was 
illegal, against the principles of natural justice , arbitrary and unjust . He is , 
therefore entitled to reinstatement with continuity of service. Regarding wages, 
he has admitted that for a few months he had been serving temporarily with 
NI / s . Bhanamal Gulzarimal, for about Afteen days with M / s . Geo Miller and for 
about one month with M / s. Bushing Schimtz Private Limited . Keeping all the 
circumstances in consideration , I feel that he is entitled to half of the wages last 
drawn by him from the date of termination of his services upto the date he is 
reinstated . The award is made accordingly . 

( Eight pages ) 
19th April, 1969 . 

( Sd .) R . K . BAWEJA , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal: Delhi. 

[No. 25 / 16 / 88 -LRIII. ] 


S . O . 2052 - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the National and Grindlays Bank Limited 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 7th 
May, 1969. 
CENTHAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA . 

REFERENCE No. 6 OF 1969 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of National and Grindlays Bank 

Ltd ., 


AND 
Their workmen . 


PRESENT : 
Shri B . N . Banerjee 

Presiding Oncer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers. - Shri M , S . Bala , instructed by Shri A . Roychow 


dhury 


On behalf of Workmen . - Shri A . D . Singh , General Secretary, National & 

Grindlays Bank Stall Urion . 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : BANKING 

AWARD 
By Order No. 23 (53 ) / 68 -LR - III dated December 16 , 1968, the Government of 
India , in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment), referred the following industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Management of National and Grindlays Bank Limi 
ted , 41 Chowringhee Road Branch , Calcutta , and their workmen ; to this tribu 
nal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Having regard to the provisions of para 20. 7 of the Conciliation Settlement 

dated 19th October 1966 arrived at before the Chief Labour Com 
missioner (Central) New Delhi between the various Bank manage 
ments and their workmen whether the management of the National 


2186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II— 


and Grindlays Bank Limited , Calcutta , was justified in treating 
Sarvashri Rajeshwar Singh , Dhirendranath Pandey and Markandeya 
Şingh , employed as sub -staff in the said Branch as casual workmen 
and paying them wages at the rate of Rs. 4 per day ? If not , to what 

relief, are the workmen entitled ? " 
2 . In the written statement, Aled by the National & Grindlays Bank State 
Union , it was allged that three workmen of the names of Rajeshwar Singh , 
Dhirendranath Pandey and Markandeya Singh were engaged as temporary em 
ployees , by the management of National and Grindlays Bank Limited at 41, 
Chowringhee Road Branch , from time to time, in leave vacancies of permanent 
staff of the subordinate cadre . Their services, it was alleged , were utilised in 
the performance of the normal duties of the permanent incumbents , who were on 
leave. Nevertheless , it was alleged in paragraph 3 of the written statement: 
" That the management has adopted the discriminatory and unfair labour 

practice towards the employees under reference in respect of payment 
of salary . They have been paid at the rate of Rs. 4 / - per day in 
stead of approx Rs. 7 / - per day on the basis of salary allowable to 

a new entrant in the bank in the subordinate cadre ." 
The aforesaid action of the management was characterised as violative of the 
provisions contained in paragraph 20 . 7 of bipartite settlement, dated October 19 , 
1966 . On the aforesaid allegations the Union claimed ; 

(1) Declaration that the concerned workmen were temporary workmen . 
( 11) Payment of difference of salary on the basis of the salary of a new 

entrant in the subordinate cadre as provided in the Settlement 

dated October 19 , 1966 and the amount paid by the Bank . 
( lli ) Any other benefit admissible to such temporary workmen . 
3 . The employer Bank also Aled a written statement. In paragraph 1 of the 
written statement a two - fold preliminary objection was raised to the effect (i ) 
the dispute was not an industrial dispute put an individual dispute , inasmuch 
Ag the trade union had no representative character and ( ii) the persons on whose 
behalf the dispute was raised did not come under the definition of workmen 
under section 2 (8 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. In paragraph 2 of the 
written statement it was stated : 
“ * * the entire case of the National and Grindlays Bank Staff Union as sta 

ted in their undated statement of claim is that the labour engaged by 
the Bank on a daily basis to meet emergencies arising from short 
age of subordinate staff on certain days due to absence without notice 
or overstaying of leave, should be classified as " Temporary honds" 
in terms of Para 20 . 7 of the Settlement on the Industrial Disputes 
between certain Banking Companies and the workmen dated 19th 
October 1966 (known as the Bipartite Settlement )." 


In paragraph 4 of the said written statement it was further stated : 
" The bank submits that the Desai Award made a distinction between tem 

porary employees and casual workers and job workers in view 
of the fact that Para 21.20 of the aforesaid Award classifles dif 
ferent types of workmen , including " Temporary workmen who were 
subject to the terms and conditions under the Award whereas sepa 
rate directions have been given with regard to casual workers and 
job workers in para 18 . 9 of the Anard , wherein it has been laid 
down that these categories of employees are excluded from the opera 
tion of the Award . It 18 therefore respectfully submitted that casual 
or daily - rated workerg are to be distinguished from temporary em 
ployees who are engaged for a specific period ." 


In paragraph 6 of the said written statement it was also stated : 
" The Bank states that Sarvasree Rajeshwar Singh , Dhirendranath Pandey 

and Markandeya Singh were engaged by the Bank as dally - rated 
casual labour on particular days when some members of the subor 
dinate staff were absent without notice or overstayed leave without 
prior intimation or permission . In these unforeseen circumstances , 
particularly in view of the fact that the number of absentee staff 
were expected to return to duty at any time, the Bank had little al 
ternative but to engage casual labour at an agreed flat rate of Rs . 4 
per day in order to cope with work which could not be left un 
attended . " 


Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2187 


- 


On the aforesaid grounds, the Bank took up the position that the workmen were 
11ot entitled to any relief at all. On these pleadings, I have to decide the dispute 
referred to this tribunal. 


4 . Dhirendra Nath Pandey , one of the workmen whose case was referred to 
1his Tribnual, has possibly setiled the dispute with the employer Bank . His 
case was not reprensented by Mr A , D . Şingh , General Secretary of the National 
and Grindlays Bank Staff Unlon I , thetelorę , record , a no dispute award 
between the said Dhirendranth Pandey and the employer Bank . Hereinafter I 
shall have to decide dispute in so far as it concerns Rajeshwar Singh and Mar 
kendeya Singh only . 


5 . I need Arst of all to take up for consideration the preliminary objections 
raised on behalf of the employer Bank . There is no dispute that there are 
two trade unions of workmen in the Bank , one is known as the National and 
Grindlays Bank Staff Union and other is known as National & Grindlays Bank 
Employees Federation . V . Shivaraman , who deposel on behalf of the employer 
Bank , stated that there were about 285 persons employed as subordinate staff in 
the Chowringhee branch of the National and Grinlays Bank Lid and 99 per 
cent of them were menibers of National and Grindlays Bank Employee s Ferera 
tion . Only 10 to 15 persons were members of National and Grindlays Bank 
Staff Union . This statement is not disputed by A . D . Singh , General Secretary 
of the National and Grindlays Bank Staff Union Mr. M . S . Bala , who appear 
ed on behalf of the employer Bank , şubmitted that a substantial number of work 
men had not espoused the cause of the two workinen concerned . Therefore, the 
dispute was not an industrial dispute within the meaning of Section 2 (k ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. It is true that the trade union which has espoused 
the cause of the workmen represents the minority group of workmen . But that 
alone is not a matter of consequence . In the case of lidian Cable Company Ltd . 
and Its workmen (1962) I LLJ 409 ( at 415 ) the Supreme Court observed (per Ven 
katarama Ayyar, J . ) : 
" No hard and fast rule can be laid down as to the number of workmen whose 

association will convert an individual dispute into an industrial dis 
pute . That must depend on the facts of each case and rature of the 
dispute . The group might even be a minority , as held by this Court 
in Associated Cement Co . Ltd . v their workmen , 1960 , I LIJ 491. " 


The view was reiterated by the Supreme Court ( per Gajendragadkar , CJ) in 
Workmen of Dharmpal Premchand ( Saughandhi) and Dharmpal Premchand ( Sau 
ghandhi) ( 1965) I LLJ 668 (at 672 ) ; 
" It is not disputed that the union of workmen may , validly raise a dispute 

as to dismissal even though it may be a union of the minority of work 
men in the establishment." 


There is nothing in the facts of the instant case which will go to show that the 
dispute raised was unworthy of being an industrial dispute . In the view expressed 
by the Supreme Court, I over - rule the first part of the preliminaryy objection 
raised by Mr, Bala , namely , that the cause of the concerned workmen not hav 
ing had been espoused by the majority of the workrnen should not be treated as 
an industrial dispute . 

6 . I turn now to the other part of the preliminary objection raised by Mr. 
Bala , Damely , that Rajeshwar Singh and Markandeya Singh both being ex 
workmen do not fall within the description of workmen , as in Section 2 ( 8 ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and the dispute should not be treated as an industrial dig 
pute but merely as an individual dispute . That the two workmen are now not 
in the employment of the employer Bank is not disputed . The dispute also 18 
not over their termination of service but over the pages payable to them during 
their period of employment. Therefore , the dispute is not connected with the 
dismissal, discharge or retrenchment of the two workmen as contemplated un 
der Section 2 ( s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Section 2A of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act also does not help . That section reads as follows : 
“ 2A . Where any employer discharges, dismisses, retrenches or otherwise 

terminates the services of an individual workman , any dispute or 
difference between that workman and his employer connected with , 
or arising out of, such discharge, dismissal, retrenchment or ter 
mination shall be deemed to be an industrial dispute notwithstand 
Ing that no other workman nor any union of workmen is a party to 
the dispute .” 


2188 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 (PART II — 

S A 

- - - = 
It may be difficult to read a dispute over payment of wages as accommodated with 
in the expression dispute or difference betgeen workmen and his employer con 
nected with or arising out of, discharge , dismissal, retrenchment or termination , 
By a long series of decisions, it was established that an individual dispute would 
not per se be an industrial dispute but may beconie one if it be taken up by a 
substantial number of workmen . This position of law created hardship for in 
dividual workman , who were discharged , dismissed , retrenched or whose services 
were otherwise terminated , when they could not And the support of a trade union 
or of an appreciable number of workmen . Section 2A was enacted to do away 
with the requirement of espousal of an Individual dispute by a trade union for 
converting it into an industrial dispute , in cases where a dispute arose out of 
discharge , dismissal, retrenchment or other termination of service of individual 
workman . This being the legal position , a dispute not over termination but 
over payment of wages during the period of employment does not come within 
Section 2A of the Industrial Disputes Act . I have , therefore, to hold that 
there may be a good deal of substance in the secon .l branch of preliminary ob 
jection raised by Mr. Bula . 


7. Mr. Bala raised a third preliminary objection , not pleaded in the written 
statement, which also requires consideration . He submitted that even if there 
had been a breach of the settlement arrived at between the Bank Managements 
and their Workmen on October 19 , 1966 , by the National & Grindlays Bank 
Ltd ., such a breach would not ipso facto be an industrial dispute under Section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . He submitted that if more money was 
due to the concerned workman under the Settlement of October 19 , 1966 , they 
might apply under Section 33C of the Industrial Disputes Act but a reference 
under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act was not maintainable . In my 
opinion , there is little substance in this contention . Here, it was not a mere 
question of underpayment over which the dispute arose . The real oispute is in 
treating the concerned workmen as casual workmen in place of temporary em 
ployees , under paragraph 20 . 7 of the settlement dated October 19 , 1966. On a 
question like this , I hold that the reference under Sec . 10 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act is permissible . 


8 . Although I am tentatively of the opinion that the second branch of the first 
repliminary objection taken by Mr. Bala , has fatal consequences , I do not propose 
to throw out the reference only on that ground . I, therefore, propose to decide the 
case on merits as well. 


9 . Paragraph 20 . 7 of the settlement arrived at between the Bank Managements 
and their Workmen is couched in the following longuage : 
" In supersession of paragraph 21 . 20 and sub - clause ( c ) of paragraph 23. 15 

of the Desal Award , “ Temporary Employee will mean a workman who 
has been appointed for a limited period for work which is of an essen 
tially temporary nature or who is employed temporarily as an addi 
tional workman in connection with a temporary increase in work of a 
permanent nature and includes a workman other than a permanent 
workman who is appointed in a temporary vacancy caused by the 
absence of a particular permanent workman ." 


Prior to the above settlement, the relationship of the employees and the Banks 
used to be controlled by an Award made by a National Tribunal presided over by 
Mr. Justice Kantilal T . Desai. The settlement of 1966 preserved the provisions of 
that Award undisturbed , in so far as It did not expressly modify the same. This 
will appear from paragraph 1 . 1 of the settlement itself, which is set out below : 
“ The parties are agreed that the provisions of the Award of the All - India 

Industrial Tribunal presided over by Shri P . Sastry ag Anally modified 
and enacted by the Industrial Disputes (Banking Companies ). Decision 
Act, 1955 , the Industrial Disputes ( Banking Companies ) Decision 
Amendment Act , 1957 and the provisions of the Award of the National 
Industrial Tribunal presided over by Mr. Justice K . T . Desai in Re 
ference No . 1 of 1960 which Award inter - alia modified certain pro 
visions of the Sastry Award , shall govern the service conditions there 
In covered except to the extent that the same have been modified in 
this Settlement." 


Sec . 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2189 , 


If I turn to paragraph 16 .9 of the Desai Award , I find that the award made no pro 
vision for casual employees . The relevant portion of paragraph 16 . 9 is set out 
below 
" I have made no provision in any part of this award in connection with 

them and persons who are casual employees or who are employed to 

do job work are excluded from the operation of this award . 
10 . It was contended on behalf of the employer Bank , by Mr. Bala , that the 
Desai Award had left casual workers at large and the Bipartite Agreement also 
had not touched them . The employer Bank was at liberty to recrult casual work 
men and pay them on contractual basis and nothing in the Award or in the 
Bipartite Settlenient would stand in the way of such payment. Now , I have already 
set out the provislons of paragraph 20 .7 If casual workers , ay in the instant case , 
would fit in the description of " temporary employees as in paragraph 20 . 7 of the 
Bipartite Settlement, then they are no longer casual workmen but are " temporary 
employees " and if such temporary employees are full time workmen , they are 
entitled to be paid in accordance with paragraph 4 . 3 of the Bipartite Settlement. 
Thus the question for my consideration is, whether the two workmen fulAlled the 
description of temporary employees in paragraph 20 .7 of the settlement of October 
19, 1966 . On behalf of the workmen , it was sought to be made out that they were 
both appointed in the leave vacancies of two particular permanent workmen . If 
that case be true, then they certainly fall within the description of " temporary 
employees" in paragraph 20 .7 and are entitled to be paid as full time workman in 
paragraph 4 . 3 of the Bipartite Settlement. On Delall of thc Bank , however , 
evidence was led to show that there was a period of time when a large pumber of 
employees began either to absent themselves or to overstay their leave that occa 
sioned the employment of the concerned workomen in the vacuum caused by the 
absence oť or overstaying of leave by several workmen . In other words, they were 
not appointed in the leave vacancy of any particular permanent workmen , I am 
to decide which of the versions is the true version . Both versions are interested 
versions. The two workmen must be interested in giving such evidence as will 
bring them within the definition of temporary employees under paragraph 20 . 7 . 
The Bank must also will be interested in leading such evidence as would place 
the workmen outside paragraph 20 . 7 of the Bipartite Settlement. Having heard 
the witnesses and having considered their evidence , I am inclined to believe in the 
evidence led on behalf of the Bank and I hold that the two workmen were appoint 
ed in a vacuum caused at a time when large number of workmen began to absent: 
themselves or to overstay their leave. They were not appointed in the leave 
vacancy of any particular workmen . That being so , they cannot be included with 
in the definition of temporary workmen as in paragraph 20 . 7 of the Bipartite 
Settlement dated October 19 , 1966 . 


11 . That being my vicw of the matter , I hold that the management of the Natio 
nal & Grindlays Bank Ltd ., Calcutta was justified in treating Rajeshwar Singh 
and Markandeya Singh employed as subordinate staff in the Chowringhee Road 
Branch as casual workmen and paying them wages at the rate of Rs. 4 / - per diem 
Instead of the wages settled under the Settlement dated October 19 , 1966 . I hold , 
therefore, that, in the circumstances of the instant case , the two workmen are not 
entitled to any relief . 

This is my award . 


I make it clear that my award night have been otherwise , if it could be pro 
ved that the concerned workmen were appointed in any particular leave vacancy 

(Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE, 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , May 1. 1969. 

[No. 23 /53768 /LRIII .] 
New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
S . O . 2053 . — Whercas the Central Government , being satisfied that the public 
Interest so required , had declarecl by a notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub - clalise (vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , [being the notifcation of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department 
of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 4268 , dated the 18th November , 1968 ] service : 
in any oil- field , to be a public utility service for the purposes of the said Act for 
a period of six months from the 22nd November , 1968 ; 


2190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART IL 


And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferrd by the proviso to sub 
- clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby declares the said service to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six n10nths 
from the 22nd May , 1969 . 

INO F , 1 / 34 / 60 -LRI.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 20th May 1969 
S . O . 2054 . – Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists etween the employers in relation to the management of Banderchua 
Mica Mine of Messrs Eastern Manganesc and Minerals Limited , Post Omce Dom 
chanch , and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whercas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, No. 2 , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Banderchua Mica Mine of 

Messrs Eeastern Manganese and Minerals Limited , Post Office Dom 
chanch , in terminating the services of Shri Chatur Narayan Barhi, 
Carpenter , with effect from the 28th September , 1968, was justified ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 20 / 7 / 69 -LRI. ] 


S .O . 2005 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bamangawan and 
Kymore Limestone Mines of Associated Cement Companies Limited , Kymore , 
District Jabalpur and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
" Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Bamangawan and Kymore Limestone Mines 

of Associated Cement Companies Limited , Kymore, District Jabalpur 
18 justifed in regulating the payment of Special Equipment Allow 
ance, prescribed in mutual settlement dated the 23rd June, 1967 in 
the manner specified in their General Notice No. 191, dated the 5th 

August, 1967 ? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

[ NO . 36 (42 ) / 88 -LRI.] 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2056 . - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Cantonment Board . 
Dinapore and their workmen in respect of the matters specifed in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 


SEC. 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2I9E 


- - - 


And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal No . 3 , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the Cantonment Board , Dinapore in terminating the 

services of Sri Suresh Chandra Singh , Overseer , with efl ect from the 
11th September, 1968 was justifed ? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled ? 

(No. 9 / 15 /68- LRIII.] 


New Delhi, the 241h May. 1969 
S . O , 2057 . — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Cantonment Board , Dina 
pore and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausc ( d ) of sub 
section (1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal No . 3 , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the Cantonment Board Dinapore in terminating the 

services of Sri Chandrika Singh , Electrician , with effect from the 
20th April 1968 was justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman 
entitled ? 

[No. 9 / 10 / 68 -LRIII. ] 


S . O . 2058. - Wnereas, the Central Government is of Opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists betwęcn the einployers in relation to the Cantonment Board , 
Dinapore and their workmen in respect of the matters spectħed in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise or the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the ladus 
trial Tribunal No. 3 , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the Cantonment Board , Dinapore , Patna in revert 

ing Shri Ram Saroop from the post of Assistant Pump Driver to 
the post of Khalasi. with effect from the 22nd April 1968 was justi 
fied ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 9 / 9 / 68 / LRIII. ] 


S . O . 2059 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Premier Insurance 
Company Limited , Calcutta , and their workmen in respect of the matter specifed 
in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ). the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act . 


nentendo hereby the Industriewers 


2192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the manage nent of Messrs. Premier Insurance Com 

pany in transferring Shri M . P . Lonappan , a workman of the Com 
pany , from Calcutta to Bombay in February , 1968 was justified ? If 
not, to what relieť is he entitled 

[No 23 /44 / 68 -LRIII. ) 
S S SAHASRANANAN , Under Secy , 


(Deptt, of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th May , 1969 
S . O , 1060 — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis jutes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Calcutta Port Commissioners , Calcutta , and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 28th April, 1969. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 48 OF 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commissioners , 

AND 

Their workmen 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee , Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Shri G . V . Karlekar, Chief Labour Oncer . 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Biren Banerjee, Advocate, 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Port . 
AWARD 


By Order No, 28 (47 ) /68 - LR .III, dated July 9 , 1968 , the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour and Employment ) , referred an industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Port Commissioners , Calcutta , and their workmen represented 
by the National Union of Waterfront Workers , Calcutta , to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad , for adjudication , in the following 
circumstances and in the following language : 
" Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commissioners , 

Calcutta and their workmen represented by the National Union of 
Waterfront Workers , Calcutta have jointly app ied to the Central 
Government for reference of an industrial dispute that exists 
between them to an Industrial Tribunal in respect of the matters 
set forth in the said application and reproduced in the Schedule 

hereto annexed ; 
And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 

represent the majority of each party ; 
Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 2 ) 

of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication 
to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A , 
of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the engine drivers of certain vessels for providing 

them relief to enable them to come out of the cngine rooms during 
duty hours is justified ? If so , what should be the relief? " 


Sec . 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2193 


- 


- 


- - 


By a later order , dated October 7, 1968, the Central Government transferred the 
aforesaid dispute to this tribunal for disposal, in exercise of their powers under 
Sub - section ( 1) of Section 33B of Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The order was 
received by this Tribunal on October 4, 1968 . 

2 . I need now state the background in which the dispute came to arise . The 
Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta are a body corporate , constituted under 
the Calcutta Port Act , 1890 Bengal Act , III of 1890 ) . The units of the Port of 
Calcutta extend from Konnagar and the north to Budge Budge in the South , 
Under the Indian Port Act, 1908, the Calcutta Port Commissioners have also 
been appointed as Conservators of the Port of Calcutta and of the navigable 
river and channels leading to the port . The limits of the navigable, river and 
channels leading to the port are in the north upto half a mile above the con 
fluence of the Bhagirathi and the Jalengi and on the South upto the parallel of 
latitude 20°45 N . The distance from the docks of Calcutta upto the Sand -heads 
in the South is about 126 miles and the distance upto the northern limit is about 
80 miles. 


3 , Navigable channels of the river have to be maintained by constant dredg 
Ang and surveying and indicated by buoying , maintaining the lighted buoys inclu 
ding lighted markings and also maintaining light vessels at the estuary and vari 
ous tidal semaphores along the river to facilitate navigation during day and 
night. 

4 . For the purpose of maintaining the navigable channels of the river and 
for other purposes as mentioned above, the Calcutta Port Commissioners have 
survey vessels and survey launches, dredgers and attached launchers , despatch 
vessels , research vessels , light vessels , pilot vessels and other vessels . The 
Commissioners also have tugs including tanac tugs launches and other vessels for 
the purpose of mooring and unmooring of the vessels and berthing of vessels in 
the river and docks. Some of the vessels are equipped with diesel engines and 
auxiliary machinery and some with steam engines and auxiliary machinery with 
boilers , 

5 . The engine room crew attached to these vessels are under an Engineer 
Superintendent Engine room of a steam operated vessels is generally manned 
by crews known as firemen 1 , fremen 11, greaser , tindal, serang and engine driver . 
The engine room of a diesel oil operated vessel is generally manned by crews 
known as greaser, tindal, serang and engine driver . Excepting vessels which 
are in charge of Marine engineers, engine drivers are in charge of the engine 
room of the vessels . 

6 . All engine drivers are trained persons. For securing a certificate of com 
petency as a 2nd Class engine driver , one must appear at the examination for 
2nd class engine drivers after three years service as fireman II and two years 
service as fireman no . I or five years service as Areman no. I ; in both the cases, 
service must be in a running vessel. For securing a certificate of competency 
as a Ist class engine driver , one with 2nd class certificate must work in the capa 
city of a principal greaser or a tindal or as a 2nd class engine driver in a vessel 
for 18 months. In all cases the service must be in a running vessel. For secu 
ring a certificate as a Licensed driver , a person with a certificate of competency 
as a ist class engine driver must work in the capacity of a driver in - charge of 
a running vessel for five years . 

7. On behalf of the workmen , the National Union of Water front Workers 
filed a written statement. In paragraph 14 and 15 of the said written statement, 
it is stated : 
" 14 . The Engincer (Marine ) in - charge of the engine room of A vessel is 

assisted and relieved either by other Marine Engineers ( Specially 
second Engineer ) or Drivers . But there is no such arrangement at 
present to assist or relieve the Engine Driver - in - charge , so far the 

engine room is concerned . 
15 . The schedule duty hours of the workmen employed on the shore at 

tached vessel vir , Tugs , Lounches and Anchor vessels are in 12 hrs . 
shifts , 6 am to 6 p . m , and to 6 p . m . to 6 a . m . and for the workmen 
attached to thr out- going vessels the schedule duty hours arc round 
the clock ." 


These contentions were sought to be repelled by paragraph 8 of the written 
statement filed on behalf of the Port Commissioners in the following language : 
" ( 8 ) That with regard to paragraphs 14 and 15 of the written statement 

of the National Union , the Commissi iners state that on vessels re 
quiring appointment of engineers under the Inland Steam Vessels 


2104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II --- 


Act or under the Merchant Shipping Act, one or more Engineers 
are appointed depending upon the operations that these vessels have 
to do, the working of the heavy and complicated machineries, carry 
iny out of maintenance and running and general repairs of these 
machineries and boilers and the number of shifts or watches that 
the Engineers have to perform . The appointment of one or more 
Engineers is based upon all the above factors taken together and 
not on the principle of giving relief only as alleged by the National 
Union , kegaraing further intention of the National Union that there 
is no such arrangement at present to assist or relieve the engine 
driver in change so for the engine room is concerned , the Commis 
şioners state that Drivers in charge normally have to carry out work 
in one shift a day with fixed or variable intervals for rest. The 
vessels also do not work continuously and there are intermissions 
during which the drivers in charge are not required to keep the 
main engine and some others engines running. The Commissioners 
have on some vessels like Tugs and Launches and Anchor vessels 
crew in 2 shifts of 12 hours each with variable recess of 2 hours , 
who are paid 62 per cent gross wages as overtime. Drivers in 
charge of launches working on the river for survey work or of 
those attached to the Dredgers are generally required to work in a 
single shift during day only , and are entitled to 674 per cent of gross 
wages as overtime in addition to free provision . The work is also 
not continuous and there are intermissions in work during which 

they are not required to keep all the engines running." 
In paragraph 18 of the written statement Aled on behalf of the workmen by the 
National Uunion of Waterfront workers , it was stated : 
“ ( 16 ) The concerned workmen of shore- attached vessels are provided with 

weekly rest day . But the concerned workmen attached to the out 
going vessels are not provided with weekly rest day . Of course they 

are provided with 26 days special casual leave in a year " . 
This contention , however , was sought to be repelled in the following manner , 
by paragraph 9 of the written statement filed on behalf of the Port Commissioners: 
" ( 9 ) Thal with regard to paragraph 16 of the written statement of the 

National Union the Commissioners state that the contentions of the 
National Union are not wholly correct. The concerned workmen 
attached to the outgoing vessels are given weekly rest days when the 
vessels are in town or are laid up for annual survey and repairs as 
far as possible . The Commissioners in agreement with their iecognis 
ed unions have introduced a system of giving these workmen 26 
days special casual leave to compensate them for loss , if any , in their 

weekly rest days . " 
I he grievances of the engine drivers were sought to be particularised in para 
graphs 17 to 21 of the written statement, Aled on behalf of the workmen by the 
National Union of Waterfront workers : 
" ( 17 ) . The engine have to be kept running and ready always for the next 

job . So the Engine Drivers are required to keep themselves engaged 
even after each operation , as the safety and maintenance of the 
engines depend on them . Even the tugs and launches must also 
keep their engines working between two jobs and this needs the 

Driver -in - charge, (Engine room ) to be kept on duty at that time. 
( 18 ) The responsibilities lie on the Engine Driver who is in - charge of 

engine room of a vessel. He is also responsible to explain in case of 
break -down irrespective of main and auxiliary engines. In case of 
his absence from the engine room being reported to the Mercantile 
Marine Department, the cartificate of competency issued by them 
may be cancelled by the Principal Officer , Marine House, Marcan . 
tile Marine Dept., Ministry of Transport & Shipping, Shipping Wing , 
Government of India . Keeping attendance and reporting absentee 
ism of the crew of engine room are also the part of the duties of 

Engine Driver -in - charge . 
( 19 ) The annual Survey of the vessels is made on the strength of the 

certificates issued by the Mercantile Marine Department to the Engine 

Drivers who are in charge of different vessels. 
( 20 ) The vessels under the charge of Chief Engineer are also provided 

with second third , fourth and even Alfth engineer . But vessels 
under the charge of the Engine Drivers have got no other Driver 


SEC. 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2195 


to assist, to relicve or to tale charge of the Engine Room . Even in 
case of sudden sickness or other difficulties there is none to relieve the 

Enginc Driver . 
( 21 ) The vessel ( launches ) attached to the River Survey Section , Dredger 

and Despatch service section , River Research Section etc . where the 
Engine Drivers are employed round the clock have got no other 
Engine Drivers to relieve them or to take charge of the engine room 
as a result of which the workmen concerned covered under the pre 
sent terms of reference cannot abstain at any time froin the engine 
room . No Rating can take the charge of the Engine room without 
cbtaining certificate of competency from the Mercantile 
Marine Dept. The Engine Driver cannot leave enging room without 
making over the charge to other çertificate holder . In case of an 
engine driver being found leaving the engine room , he is llable to 

disciplinary action ." 
These allegations were sought to be replied to in paragraph 10 to 14 of the written 
statement filed on behalf of the Port Commissioners, which are set out below : 
" ( 10 ) That with regard to paragraph 17 of the written statement of the 

National Union , the Commissioners state that while in between the 
two jobs the cngine drivers are required to keep the engine ready 
they are not required to keep all the engine running and while the 
engines are not running the engine drivers are also not required 

to be in the engine room continuously . 
( 11 ) That with regard to paragraph 18 of the written statement of the 

National Union , the Commissioners state that while the Engine 
Drivers incharge of the engine room of Vessels and also is required 
to explain the case of break - down in respect of main and auxillary 
engine, the contention of the National Union that " in case of his 
absence from the engine room being reported to the Mercantile 
Marine Department, the certificate of competency issued by them 
may be cancelled by the Principal Omcer is not correct, but the 
driver during his working period while the vessel is in operation is 
required to be in the engine room . He is also required to check up 
the machine and boiler periodically . Other duties stated by the 
National Union are normal duties which they are required to 

perform , 
( 12) That with regard to paragraph 19 of the written statement of the 

National Union , the Commissioners state that the contentions of the 
National Union are not wholly correct. The final survey of vessels 
is done annually and at the time of the final survey , the surveying 
authority takes note of the details of the certificate of the Drivers 
concerned , the purpose belng to ensure that the engine room of a 
particular vessel is in charge of engine driver having the requisito 

certificate of competency . 
( 13 ) That with regard to paragraph 20 of the written statement of the 

National Union , the Commissioners crave reference to their conten 
tions at paragraph 8 above and state that in case of sudden sickness 
or other difficulties of an engine driver , substitutes are provided and 
1f the next man is qualified he is allowed to take charge till the 
substitute is available . This applies to both the Engineers in charge 

as well as Drivers in charge. 
( 14 ) That with regard to paragraph 21 of the written statement of the 

National Union , the Commissioners state that the contentions of the 
National Union are not correct and are, thereforc, denied . In case 
of Engine Drivers in charge of launches in River Survey Section , 
Dredger and Despatch Service Section , the Drivers are allowed to go 
out of the engine room when the main engines are not working On 
such launches generally main engines are run intermittently and the 
total period of such running of the main engine on an average does 

not exceed 10 hours a day . 
8 . In the background of these pleadings, I am to decide the claim whether 
engine drivers of the several kinds of vessels used in the Port are entitled to a 
relieving hand so that they may come out of the engine rooms within duty hours 
and relax . 

9 . Mr. Biren Banerjee . learned Advocate for National Union of Waterfront 
Workers, contended that the inside of every engine room was either steamy or 


2196 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 Part II 

- - - - - - -- - - - 
shooty or greasy or oily place of stifling atmosphere . Human muscles cannot 
long work inside an engine room . During the prescribed shilt duty hours, which 
admittedly extend between 10 to 12 hours , engine drivers must have some relief 
hand to substitute them inside the engine room so that they may coine out, ease , 
refresh and relax themselves and then go back to work being relieved of thelr 
human liredness . 

10 . In order to test the arguments of Mr. Banerjee , it is necessary for me to see 
what types of work are done by the allerert vessels named in the written state 
ments and for how long on each day . The oral evidence on the above two points , 
led before this tribunal, is much too cryptic and far from being full and com 
plete . This is so , because parties relied upon an award made by this Tribunal 
(then presided over by my learned predecessor Mr. S . K . Sen ) between the same 
parties , which are published in the Gazette of India of September 30 , 1967 (Ext. 
2 by consent) . The said award , although on a different industrial dispute , con 
tains a detailed examination of the nature of work done by several of the Port 
Commissioners vessels involved in the present dispute . I propose to set out the 
relevant portions of the said award hereunder . In paragraph 6 of the award it 
is stated : 
" The Director, Marine, . . , . Is in over - all charge of the Marine Department 

This department is divided into a number of sections, Pilot vessels 
are under Port Pilotage establishment, of which the chief officer is the 
Harbour Master, River , previously known as the Port Pilotage Onicer. 
Dredgers and Despatch vessels are under the Dredger and Despatch 
Service section ; Light vessels and Saugar lighthouse are also con 
trolled by this section . River Survey vessels and Research vessel 
and shore stations, like Hooghly Point station and various Semaphores 
and Sounding Party stations are under the River Survey section of 
which officer - in - charge is known as the River Surveyor. The crew 
of the above mentioned vessels and shore stations, including attached 
launches , have to be away from Calcutta Port for the greater part 
of each month and the crew of some vessels for months together . . . . . 
These sections , apart from pilotage , are responsible for the main 
tenance of the approaches of the Port in a safe and navigable con 
dition ; they must not only keep the channel navigable but keep it 
readily recognisable by maintaining lighted buoys and other navigable 
marks. At the Port itself , ships must be moored and unmoored in 
the river , led into the docks and berthed , and taken out again ; that 
work is in charge of the Mooring Master and the Dock Master , who 
are under the overall control of the IIarbour Master , Port. Heaveup 
boats , Hawser boats and anchor vessels are under the Mooring 
Master s section ; that section also keeps some batches of mooring 
crews to help foreign vessels to moor or unmoor . In the Dock 
Master s section , there are tugs and launches , Jooly boats and motor 
boats , The Engineering Superintendent s section controls the 
crew and officers on the engine side both of vessels which go down 
the river and the vessels working in the Port." 


It is also necessary to set out briefly from award, the nature of work done by 
the various vessels mentioned in the writen statements : 
(a ) Pilot vessels. - Each pilot vessels normally remains for 16 days at 

Sandheads at one stretch and 12 days in Calcutta Port, the journey 
occupying one day each way. When at Sandheads, the motor boats 
attached to the pilot vessels are used for carrying the pilots from the 
pilot vessel to an incoming ship or from an outgoing ship to the pilot 
vessel. On the average nine boating trips have to be made per day 
for the purpose. This is the primary work for which Pilot vessels 
are maintained . When at Sandheads the normal working hours of 
the crew are from 6 a . m . to 4 p . m , with recess for break - fast from 
9 a . m . to 10 a . m . and for launch from 1 p .m . to 2 p . m ; boating may 
have to be done outside these normal hours or at night, but if there 
is excessive boating done in a particular night, the crew are given 
the prevlous day off , it the boating was anticipated , or the subse 
quent day off . If it was not anticipated . Four members of the 
crew on the deck side go in a motor boat upart from the Engine 
driver . The Pilot vessels usually arrives at Calcutta Port on a 
Thursday and the crewş get 2 Sundays in Calcutta every month . 
When at Port the programma is , day duty from 7 a .m . to 4 p . m . 
with 2 breaks of one hour cach for meals on week days, 7 a . m . to 1 


Sec . 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2197 


P .M . on Saturdays and 7 A . M . to 9 A . M . on Sundays , When at Sand 
heads the two motor drivers are on stand by duty for 12 hours at 
a time one during the day and one during the night. Three of the 
gressers are engaged in oiling and greasing the engine by rotation 
on the system of 4 hours on and 8 hours oil. The remaining crew of 
the engine side do day duty i- e , maintenance duty from 7 to 4 P . M . on 
week days , 7 A . M , to 1 P . M . on Saturdays and 7 30 AM , to 9 - 30 A . M . 
on Sundays and on holidays the Sunday routine is followed . During 
day duty there is one hour s recess for breakfast and one hour s recess 
for lunch . When the Pilot vessel is at Calcutta the two motor dri 
vers and one greaser by rotation do 8 hours watch and get 10 hours 

off on shore leave . 
(b ) Dredgers . -- The channel of the Hoogly river has to l. e subjected to 

constant dredging to maintain a sufficient draft for sea going vessels . 
Five of the dredgers have launches attached to thein . A survey party 
goes out in the launch and makes a survey and gives a chart to the 
Commander of the dredger and the Commander decides from the 
chart where the dredging is to be done . When the dredger is down 
the river for dredging, one Serang or tindal, and two firemen are 
on duty in the boller room , doing duty for 4 hours and getting 8 
hours off. For this purpose 1 Serang and two tindals and 6 Fire 
men are required and they are divided into 3 hatches, each working 
for 8 hours. In the Engine room , 2 greasers work at a time, 4 hours 
on and 8 hours off ; in the Pump room one driver and one greaser 
keep watch at a time, their shift being 3 hours on and 3 hours off , 
But pump room works only during the dredging time, the maximum 
dredging being 10 to 11 hours in a day of 24 hours . The 3 watchmen 
have also to work during actual dredging time and they work on the 
system of 2 hours on and 2 hours off . The cassab and electricians 
and technicians with thc remaining 8 . firemen do day duty from 
62m . to 4 p .m . with one off for breakfast and one hour off for 
lunch . The day duty consists of maintenance and cleaning and 
minor repairs and Alung up oil tanks and so on . On Saturdays the 
day duty is done between 6 a .m . and 12 noon with an hour s break 
fast and on Sundays and holidays the duty is done between 6 a . m . 
and 9 a . m . When the dredger is at Calcutta 1 driver . 2 tindals and 
3 Firemen are required for boiler room watch . They are divided in 
3 batches of 2 men each and each batch works for 8 hours at a stretch 
and then gets 16 hours off during which time the men may have shore 
leave. In the Engine room also there are 3 greasers, each one work 
ing for 8 hours and getting 16 hours off. The remaining crew mem 
bers do maintenance work between 7 . 30 nm , and 1 p . m . with 2 hours 
off for breakfast and lunch and then 50 per cent of the crew get 
shinse leave and the others remain on the shin , orranging watch duty 
by 2 men at a time for 2 hours . On Saturdays the day duty is done 
upto 12 noon and on Sundays upto 9 a . m . after which 50 per cent 
get shore leave. When the dredger is at Calcutta port , the pro 
gramme of work for the crew is the same as that for other vessels 
which go down the river and 50 per cent get shore leave cvery day 
after the day s work is donc at 4 pm . or on Saturday at 1 p . m . and 
on Sunday at 9 am When the dredger is down the river, dredging 
is done for about 10 hours per day except for the dredger Churni 
which is equipped for rontinuous work . During dredging the ser 
vices of following crew members are required , vir , the Serang and 
the tindal to relieve hini, 3 seacunnys each working for 2 hours at 
the wheel and taking 4 hours ofl , a tide watcher and leadsman . When 
the ship is going on to a bar, the services of 2 leadsmen are required 
but when the ship is placed in position for dredging one leadsmen 19 
required . Two or threc laskers are required in the operation of 
dredging . The other members of the crew no day work from 6 am . 
to 4 p .m . 1. e . maintenance and cleaning with 2 breaks for meals . On 
Saturdays the work is done unto 1 p . m , and on Sundays upto 9 am . 
A dredger is down the river for 12 days at a time and stays for 3 or 
4 days at Calcutta Thus the stay at Calcutta port is 6 to 8 days per 
month when the dredoer is in commission . The dredger on the aver 
age is laid up for 15 to 70 days in the year for annual survey or 
overhauling and boiler cleaning . During that time the crew remain 
attached to the dredger and 50 per cent grts shore leave every day 
after the day s work is done. 


2198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II 


( c ) Despatch vessels . The work performed by the despatch vessels , includ 

es maintenance of lighted shore marks and lighted buoys over 
hauling of buoys in the estuary area and malntaining some high 
marks which the river survey vessels do not maintain . The des 
patch vessely also supply rations to the three light vessels posted 
in the estuary areas and to Sauger light house . The despatch vessels 
have powerful engines and they are called upon to give assistance to 
sea going vessels when they are aground or otherwise in diMculty , 
The duties also include looking for lost anchors and salvaging them 
when located . Normally a despatch vessel stays at Calcutta Port 
for 8 or 10 days in the month and does duty down the river for 
about 20 days in the month . On the average there are 3 days down 
the river in a month , for 6 or 7 days on each occasion , with stay for 
6 Firemen and 2 Bhandaris . The programme of work down the river 
Occasionally , however , for emergency duty , a despatch vessel may have 
to go down the river within a day or two of its arrival at Calcutta , 
but that emergency duty lasts only for a day or two . On the engine 
room side the crew consists of 1 Serang, 2 Tindal, 1 Cassab , Greasers , 
6 Firemen and 2 Bhandaris . The programme of work down the river 
Is more or less similar to that for Pilot vessels. The programme for 
the crew when the vessel is at Calcutta Port is also similar to that 
for the Pilot vessels . There is a llability of the crew on shore leave 
to be recalled if the despatch vessel is required to go out on emer 

gency duty . 
( d ) Light vessels. - - A light vessel remains at one station for about a year 

and then it comes back to Calcutta for survey, l. e annual overhaul. 
ing, and if there is no storm the normal hours of duty are 6 a .m . 
to 4 p . m , with recess of one hour each for two meals and after 4 
p .m . the crew have to do watch duty by rotation . When there 18 
monsoonic or stormy weather the conditions of work in the light 
vessels and the light house become difficult and sometimes the crew 
of the Ught vessels cannot cook their meals on account of stormy 
weather. It is in recognition of the relatively hard conditions of 
service of the crew serving in the light vessels that they are usually 

granted a month s leave after 6 months service . 
( e ) River Survey vessels . So far as the river survey vessels are concerned , 

their main work is constant surveying of the navigable channel of 
the river Hoogly . Owing to the shifting of the shoals , the channel 
changes from time to time and the new channel has to be marked 
and where the depth at a bar or any other part of the channel becomes 
too small the place has to be dredged and deepened . The marking 
of the channel as well as the dredging is based on the result of the 
gurvey work . A rlver survey vessel stays down the river for 16 or 
17 days in a month in two trips of 8 days each and between the trips 
the survey vessel stays at a mooring at Calcutta for 6 or 7 days at 
a time. Thus, the total number of days at mooring comes to 12 or 
13 days in a month . When at mooring at Calcutta the programme 
of work which consists of maintenance and obtaining the necessary 
stores for the next voyage , is similar to that already described for 
the crew of the Pllot vessel. Apart from the normal stay of 12 or 
13 days in a month in Calcutta , the survey vessel remains at Calcutta 
for two months and a half or 3 months every year , l. e ., 2 months for 
annual survey or overhaul and 15 days for boller cleaning. At that 
time 50 per cent of the crew gets shore leave. The number of crew 
in the several river survey vessels varleg slightly from one vessel to 
another . On the RSV Haldia on the deck side there are 1 Serang , 
3 Seacunnvs, 3 Leadsmen , 1 Cassab , 1 Tide watcher . Blaskers, 1 
Bhandari and 1 Topaz apart from the Saloon staff . On the Engine 
room side there are 2 drivers , one tindal. 4 greasers. 3 fremen , 1 
bhandari and 1 trainee Armen . When the vessel is moving , each sea 
cinny is on duty for 2 hours and then 2 hours rest and then on standby 
dutv for 2 hours when survey is beinst done the echo sounder 1s 
used by an omcer but one leadsman and 1 khalasi along with one 
seacundy and one tide witrher standhy for duty. There is a motor 
hoat carried hy ench survey vessa ] And survey of shallow water is 
done hu the motor hoat Two Officers ope Sparny . two Leadsmen 
and fun Laskare and one Engine driver from thn nurly going out a 
motor bont for survey work . The members of the crew not engaged 


Sec. 3 ( il)] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2199 

= 

- = - - - - - - - - 2 - -- - - - - - 
on running the engine or on operatlonal work do day duty when the 
vessel is down the river froni 6 a . m . to 4 p in . with 3 hours oil Lor 
break fast and lunch . On Saturday and Sunday there is limited day 
duty as in other vessels when down the river . Some members of the 
crew who are engaged on some urgent work at that time may not be 
able to take off for break - fast betwcen the usual hours oť 9 to 10 
a . m . or for lunch between 1 to 2 p . m . but they are relieved either 
belore or after the usual hours and are granted the prescribed recess 
for their meals and personal work . The crew included in the motor 

bat does not do the day work of maintenance . 
( 1) Research vessels . - For votaining research data , the work done is cur 

rent observation , wave recording, bad boring and so on . The pro 
gramme of work for the crew when at Calcutta Port is similar to that 
for other vessels which go down the river . When the vessel is down 
the river, apart from the Seacunny, greasers, firemen , etc ., who are 
engaged in running the ship , some members of the crew are re 
quired to lower and raise the structure for bad boring , to watch the 
apparatus for wave recording which is set up by ofiicers and to raise 
and lower the apparatus required for current observation , the read 
ings being taken by an officer . In view of the nature of work there 
are no fixed hours provided for work down the river. " 


I need notice here that it was observed by one witness, in Reference Nos. 136 , 137 
and 140 of 1966 ( Employers in relation to the Commissioners of Calcutta Port vs. 
their workmen ) : 
" PW - 17. Birendra N Malakar serving in the Research Vessel admitted in 

cross examination that if fixed hours of recess are provided it would 
not be possible to do the work intended to be done by the Research 

Vesse ). But nobody has asked for transfer from the Research vessel." 
( C ) Anchor vessels .- - These vessels belong to the Mooring Master s Section 

There is on the deck side, one Serang , one tindal, fourteen laskars 
and one or two drivers and on the engine side one driver , one tindal 
and two firemen . The crew work for tryenty - four hours at a stretch 
and then get twenty -four hours off , wlion they go homc, Then they 
are on duty for forty -eight hours continuously and then get forty 
eight hours off. In addition , they get a weekly day off, which may be 
joined with the twenty - four hours off after one stretch of 24 hours 
duty or with 48 hours of after 48 hours of duty According to the 
Port Commissioners , the work done by Anchor vessels is Intermittent 
and the duty hours extend over 12 hours per day . The main duty of 
the anchor vessel crew is to fix buoys and to maintain them in Port 
area . The crew of the anchor vessel has also to see the maintenance 
of jetty springs to which ships are anchored and they are occasional 
ly requircd to fix Jetties in position with chain . The anchor vessels 
also have to carry the heavy anchor from Taktaghat for mooring 
vessels when a bore tide is expected . The salvago work in the Port 
area is included within the normal duty of the Anchor vessel and that 
is why one or two divers have been provided in each anchor vessel , 
The drivers And out the position of the sunk vessel and then the crew 
of the anchor vessel have to pull up the sunk vossel with the help of 

tackles and wire ropes. 
Th ) Launches and Tranac T403The crays work ir 12 hours shift , 6 am . 

to 6 p . m . or 6 p .m , to Ram , The duties include carrying the Harbour 
Master from Rajabagan to meet an incoming ship , where he relieves 
the pilot and brings in the ship for mooring and carrying the pilot 
from Shalimar to Garden Reach where the kilot takes over from the 
Harbour Master for taking an outgoing ship down the river . The 
launches or tanac tugs are used also to two heaveup boats and hawser 
boats in position for their mooring or unmooring jobs. When a hore 
tide is apprehended , the Mooring Master patrols a section of the river 
in one launch and the Assistant Mooring Master in another launch 
one taking the area from Taktaghat to Towrch bridge and another 
from Taktaghat down to Garden Reach . A larinch Algo carries the 
mooring crew along with the Assistant Harbour master to meet the 
incoming foreign ship at Garden Reach . This is apart from the 
duties which launches perform when accompanying dredgers and 
other vessels . 


2200 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [Park II 

- - - - - - - 
The Port Commissioners have about 11 tugs including one river tug ; 4 

tuys remain in the Kidderpore dock and 2 in the King George s dock , 
2 are usually out of commission The tugs, apart from other duties , 
guide sea going ships through the channel into the dock ; crews or 

tugs work for 12 hours shift. 7 A . M . to 7 P . M , and 7 PM , to 7 A . M . 
It is noteworthy that it was definitely held in the previous award , Ext. 2 : 

The crow are absent from their honle but this does not imply that they 

are on duty and the 2nc . ( Underlined by me for einphasis ). 
The matter was also examined from another point of view and it was observed : 
" Some idea of the hours of their duty has already been given in the brief 

description of the work done in different types of vessels . The scales 
of pay for dillerent types of crew were fixed on an çışseşşinent of the 
nature of their wurk and dearness allowance at the Central Govern 
ment scales is being paid since 1943; and the pay scales were revised 
in consonance with the recommendations of the First Pay Commis 

sion and thereafter of the Second Pay Commission . 
Difficulties began to arise when the Minimum Wages Act of 1948 was passed 

and became applicable to u employees of the Port Commissioners 
with all its rules as to normal hours of work and weekly holiday 
and overtime. * * * The minimum wages were fixed at the stage of 
the pay - scale which the Port Commissioners were paying at the time 
of the various notifications. Under Section 13 of the Minimum Wages 
Act the appropriate Government may fix hours of work , etc ., in res 
pect of any scheduled employment, Section 13 Sub - section ( i ) is as 

follows: 
" ( 1 ) In regard to any scheduled employment minimum rates of wages in 

regpect of which have been fixed under this Act, the appropriate 

Government may 
( a ) fix the number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal 

working day , inclusive of one or more specified intervals ; 
( b ) provide for a day of rest in every period of seven days which shall 

be allowed to all employees or to any specified class of employees 
and for the payment of remuneration in respect of such days of 

rest; 
( c ) provide for payment for work on a day of rest at a rate not less than 

the overtime rale . 
The Central Government published the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 ; 

in these Rules , the hours of work constituting a normal day were 
laid down and provision was niade for a weekly day of rest and over 
time payment for work on such day . Rule 23 relates to the weekly 
day of rest and provides that an employee under scheduled employ 
ment in respect of which minimum rates of wages have been fixed 
under the Act shall be allcwed a day of rest every week which shall 
ordinarily be Sunday , but the employer may fix any other day of 
week as rest day for any employee or class of employees in that 
scheduled employment. Payment is to be made for the weekly day 
of rest as for a normal working lay . Rule 24 relates to the number 
of hours of work constituting a normal working day . Sub - rules ( 1 ) 
and ( 2 ) of Rules 24 are as follows: 


( 1 ) The number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day 

shall be : 
(a ) In the case of an adult , 9 hours . 

(b ) in the case of child , 4 hourg . 
( 2 ) The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that in 

clusive of the intervals for rest , if any, it shall not spread over moro 

than twelve hours on any day . 
Rule 25 relates to extra wages for overtime and provides that when a 

worker works in an employment for more than 9 hours on any day 
or for more than 48 hours in any week , he shall in respect of over 
time work be entitled to wages at double the ordinary rate of wago 
in any scheduled employment other than agriculture ." 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2201 


11 . The above description taken from award , Ext. 2 , gives a good deal of idea 
about the work done by different types of Port Commissioners vessels and the 
duration of their work . But it does not impart much information about the duty 
hours of the engine driveis in narticular and also about the rature of their work . 
I have , threlore , to turn to the oral evidence in this case , although , as I have 
already observed , that evidence is far from being full and complete . Witness 
No. 1 for the workoon way Phani Blidan Nag , himself an engine driver. In 
his cxamination in - chied he said : 
“ An engine ariver has to look after the operation work of the engine room 

as also the maintenance of the engines . I have to operate cugines . 
There are two engines in the engine room . I have to operate both 
the engines, at the same time. The manoeuvering work of the en 
gine I have to do myself, Thę mam driving work of the engine has 
also to be performed by myself. I have no helper, I have to attend 
12 hours at a stretch in my duty . There is nobody to help in any 

work of the engine room ." 
He continued speaking in the same manner in his cross-examination : 
"We work for 12 hours . During the duty period there is no division of 

work . It is not correct that during the 12 hours, 8 hours are treated 
as duty hours, 2 hours as overtime and 2 hours as ręcess period . We 

do not get 4 hours as the period of overtime work ." 
The tall statement made by the witness , however, was considerably tonned down 
by him later on . In answer to a question put by the Tribunal, he stated : 

" Our period of work is for 10 hours and we get 2 hours of overtime." 
In course of his further cross - examination , however, he admitted that his ex 
perience was limited to tugs and dredgers. He said : 
" Bhagirathi is a dredging ship but it also does dredging survey work . I 

worked on Bhagitathi as a driver . I never worked on the launch 
accompanying Bhagirathi. On Board Bhagirathi I had to do 4 hours 
duty at a stretch then enjoy 8 hours rest. On Board Bhagirathi I 
had to remain inside the engine or for four hours at a stretch ." 


Questioned by the tribunal on tlię nature of work on tugs, he spoke about the 
intermittent nature of duty : 
“ While I work on tugs I have to be inside the engine room for 2 hours or 

2 hours and a hall at a strolch . On board Jalangi I used to work 
4 hours at a stretch and they enjoy 8 hours rest. On board Champa , 
Chameli ond Malati. I may have to be inside the engine room for 
3 to 4 hours and the rest of the time. I have to be on my guard al 
though outside the engine room . Ordinarily reliefs are available 
when 12 hours duty at a streich are allotted or when one is to be in 
charge for 24 hours. But there are occasicng when relief does not 
arrive, when long stretches of duity are to be performed . I have not 
worked in any vessel where engine drivers are employed round the 
clock and I am not in a position to vouchsafe the truth of the state 
nient contained in paragraph 21 of the written statement filed by 
National Union of Waterfront workers " 


la course of cross -examination he further said : 
" I have never workeu in any veggel where ar engine driver is required 

to put in 24 hours duty . . . I have rot worked on launchey . . . A tug 
normally works at least for two to three hours at a time. A launch 
also works for two to three hours at a time. Thereafter , they come 
back to the station and walt for another assignment of work When 
back to the station all types of vessels shut down their main engine 
but the Auxíllor ginęg remain on . Some of the auxilia y machines 
are automatir bu : not all of them . These auxiliary machines are 
attended to the engine (triver When back to the station , the 
engine driLAT OL r vessel has to remain on board . He has not the 
perr lasłoi o leave the vessel." 


Further examined hv t ? tribunal, he answered : 
" In each of the ver :. there are bunks where the engine drivers may 

relax . The position is the same with other men on duty on board. " 


2202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


( PART II - 


He, however, stated in course of the last part of his cross -examination : 
" When back to the station and when the main engine is shut off , an en 

gine lriver may come out of the engine room but he has to stay 
on at the door of the engine room and watch . . . . The work of an en 
gine driver is work of intermittent type that is to say that the pro 

cess of work is not gor the entire duty period of 12 hours ." 
The second witness examined on behalf of wormen was Bhupendra Narayan 
Ghose Mazumda , an engine driver . In his examination in - chiet he said : 
" An engine dilver has to operate the engine, to repair the engines and also 

keep proper maintenance . The other members of the staff on 
board thc vessel work under the supervision of the engine driver . , 
Engine drivers have to stay inside the engine room for 12 hours 
of their duty . When required to o out to attend either call of 
nature or to feed himself , engine drivers may go out of the engine 
room At that time he keeps somebody else in charge of the en 
gines . At the time when the engine driver goes out of the engine 
room , the engine driver remains responsible for any defect cropping 
up in the engines. To operate the engine is entirely the responsi 

bility of the engine driver." 
In course of his cross -examination , however, he notified himself and stated : 
" I get one day off as my weekly rest day. Tugs ar. d launches generally 

work when tides are on but they may be required to work even at 
times when there is no tide . A tug or a launch comes to station 
when there is no tide. A tug or a lunch comes to station after 
duty, the engine driver is not required to operate the main engine any 
more but he has many other works to do . During that time the 
defects discovered in the machine , equipments have to be repaired . 
Such defects are mostly discovered after each particular run of 
duty. We have to carry out minor and major repairs both . . . . Out of 
12 hours duty , we get overtime weges for two hours. We do not 
get ? hours as recess . . Attached launches work on the average 10 to 

12 hours a day . " 
The third witn ss exaimed on behalf of the workmen was Sisir Kumar Kanjilal, 
a Tinda ! He worked as an engine driver only in temporary vacancies on board 
Port Commissioners vessels . He never worked as an engine driver on any tug 
or any launch . He, however , made a very categoric statement. “ Tindals never 
do the work of an engine driver Regard being had to his limited experience , 
I do not make much of this witness . The fourth witness for the workmen was 
Bisweswar Kar , a 2nd class engine driver . He said in his examination in chief: 
" I have to work under the Port Commissioners at a stretch of 12 hours. . 

During the duty hours if I have to go out to ease myself or to feed 
myself, I have to go out at my own responsibility . It often happens 
that I do not get any time to go out. At the time when I go out if 
there is any defect in engine the responsibility is mine. No qualſed 
assistant is given to us for relief," 


In cross-examination , however, he considerably broke down and stated : 
" I have never worked as an engine driver on any tug or launch . I cannot 

tnerelore say whether engine drivers on tugs or launches get any 
rellef or not . I cannot say whether out of these 12 hours , 8 hours 
are duty hours, 2 hours are also duty hours but are paid at over 
time scale and 2 hours are Axed for recess . I work for all the 12 

hours ." 
This is the cntirety of the oral evidence on which the workmen tried to establish 
their claim for r inf to engine drivers of Port Commissioners vessels . On hehalt 
of the Port Commissioners great efforts were inade to establish the hours of 
work of engine drivers bv proving log books kept on board Port Commissioners 
vessels. A log bock , as is well known , 18 & book containing official records of a 
ship s progrers and proceedings on board . That such log books should be 
regularly maintained on different vessels of the Port Commissioners , I have no 
doubt . In practice, however , this is not done While the first witness on hehalf 
of the workmen was being examined , who was himself the engine driver of tus 
" Malatl" , an attempt was made to produce the log book of tug " Malati" before 
this trl yunal. Phani Bhusan Nag , the engine driver , however , denied that, he 


Sec. 3(Ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2203 


maintained any such log book . Thereupon , under my orders the locker of the 
tug was opened , as prayed for by Mr. Karlekar for the Port Cominissioners and 
papers were taken out but the log book was not found . Mr. Karlekar, however, 
caused production of three other log books, namely log hook of MV " Topsee" 
( Ext. 3 ) , log book of tug " Hena " ( Ext. 4 ) and log book of tug " Champa " 
(Ext . 5 ) . Those exhibits contain entries about the hours during which the 
engine of the vessels worked but all the exhibits do not appear to have been 
regularly kept or similarly kept according to a pattern . Witness No. 1 for the 
Port Commissioners , Surya Kumar Choudhury , who is an engine driver himself, 
stated in his examination in - chief, " engine drivers have to maintain a log book 
while the engines are on the run . In other words, engine drivers have to main 
tain particulars of the engine during duty hours ." He proved Ext. 3 and stated , 
" guch log books are being maintained by engine drivers in all launches , tugs and 
other vessels. In cross - examination , however , he stated : 
" There are specified instructions about the manner in which the log books 

have to be maintained . The instructions require us to record con 
gumptions of fuel and oil per diem and also to send a report of 
requirements to the Port Commissioners . The instructions are in 
writing . Log book , however , has not been maintained by me accord 
ing to the instructions but according to my own convenience . Log 
books are not regularly checked . Ext. 3 , however , has never been 
checked . " 


Witness No. 2 for the Port Commissioners , Ranendra Mohan Saha, proved Ext. 4 
and gave a separate reason about the maintenance of log book on board tug 
" Hena " . According to him " Hena was a new vessel with a new type of machine 
and there was an engineer posted to see if the vessel was properly running dur 
ing the guarantee period . In cross - examination he stated : 
" An engineer was posted in order to see whether the vessel was working 

properly and was consuming proper quantities of oil . The mainten 
ance of log book was, therefore, all the more necessary . After the 
guarantee period is over , it is not necessary to maintain a log book 
in such detuils . The log books are not regularly checked . This book 
does not show that it was at all checked . We received a circular oť 
instruction for main enance of a log book showing running hours . 
That instruction also dirccted us to maintain a record of oil con 
sumption . The instruction did not however contain further direc 

tions about maintenance of particular columns in the log book ." 
The instructions spoken of either by witness Surya Kumar Choudhury or by 
witness Ranendra Mohan Saha were not produced before me. The third witness 
examined by the Port Commissioners , Arun Chandra Das , however , proved dis 
astrous. Why this witness was at all examined by the Port Commissioners passes 
my comprehension . He stated in his examination in chief : 
" We do not really maintain a log book . During our leisure hours, while 

operating the engine we sometimes make certain entries in a book , 
When we do not get any leisure, we do not make any entry at all , 
We do not maintain in the log book the total hours during which 
the engine has worked . We have no such time." 


Regard being had to the nature of the evidence, I am not in a position in place 
very great reliance on Exts , 3 , 4 and 5 and to base my conclusion about the 
working hours of engine drivers on the basis of such materials . I am now left 
with the evidence of Amar Singh , Deputy Engineer Superintendent. In his 
examination - in -chief he stated ; 
" The crews working in the engine room of tugs are under the Engineer 

Superintendent to whom I am the Deputy . In tugs and launches 
there are two shifts . In tugs workmon work from 7A . M . to 7 P .M . 
and 7 P . M , to 7 ANI. On Mooring Master launches workmen also 
work during the same hours. The launches under the River sur 
veyor, one set of crew keep the ves al working during 24 hours. 
Although on duty for 24 hours , the duty period is divided roughly 
Into 3 periods contive time, active ime and working time. By 
captive time I mean , thet the vessel is away from the base , crew 
remalning on board as if on duty but not doing active duty . By 
active time I mean the period when the workinen are called to di y 
but not actually allotted any duty . By working time I mean the 
period the workmen are actually on the job allotttd to them . On 


2204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : LX 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II -- 


river survey vessels the working hours are on the average 8 to 4 
hours but on other vessels it is 6 to 7 hours . This is according to 
my experience. When the main engine is active in working , the 
engine drivers have to be on duty , but when the main engine is 
shut oil they come out of the engine room , and may have some 
relaxation but at the peril of being called back to duty at any 
moment. Survey vessels work during day time only and although 
there is only one driver even for a vessel remaining out of the base 
lor several days, the occasion does not arise when the driver has to 
work for all the 24 hours . In survey vessels , by which I mean the 
big vessels , there are engineers in charge and engine drivers are 
under them . To such survey vessels there are at times launches 
attached . The launches are under charge of the engine drivers. On 
survey vessels the duty of an engine driver is intermittent. His 

duties may be shared by the engineer or the tindal. 
To tribunal: 
It is the convention amongst the engineers and the tindals to sliare the 

duties of an engine driver when the launches may be on duty for 

a pretty long time, 
Exam . in - chief: 
( Showi paragraph 21 of the written statement Aled on behalf of the work 

men ) . If on voyage any accident happens to the engine driver , the 
greaser takes the launch to the destination . The greaser algo 
informs the office and a relieving man is sent. The launch does not 
leave till a competent relieving man arrives . There is however no 

second engine driver to relieve on board." 
He was not very much cross- examined. All that was got out of him in cross 
examination was : 
On diesel tugs there are two engines, so also on steam tugs. In Dock 

master launches there is one engine each In Mooring master s 
launches some are operated with two engines and some with one 
engine only . The launches accompanying dredgers have one engine . 
The main engines have also their auxiliaries . An engine driver , 
broadly speaking , is responsible for running and maintenance of all 
the machinery in the engine room . The location of the machinery is 
dependant upon the layout of the vessel. In Mooring master s 
launches , in river gurvey launches , the dredger and despaich launches 
and in tannac tugs the machinery are consistently located in one 
room . Number of persons working on board is determined accord 
ing to the need . The engine driver is in charge of the engines but 
the Inland master is in charge of the vessel. An Inland master stays 
on the vessel. If there be any break down in the engine or in 
machinery the driver is respongible . During his duty hours an engine 
driver can not leave the vessel." 


On an analysis of the oral evidence , I do not get the idea that engine am ers 
are all sweated like galley slaves on board Port Commissioners ve . 118 . IC ig 
true that during the captive period for engine drivers, that is to say the period 
when they are on board the vessel, they cannot leave the vessel although their 
working period does not colncide with their captive period . The perind of their 
active duty or of working hours is not as tiresome as was sought to be made 
out. In shore attached vessels , that is to say , in tugs including tanac tuga, 
launches and other vessels , used , inter alia , for the purpose of moong and un 
mooring of vessels and berthing of vessels in the river and docks, engine drivers 
work for 2 to 4 hours at a stretch and then relax for 8 hours ; thereafter , they 
may again go to work . Same is the type of work on survey veggelş . In case of 
long hours of duty , relief is generally available . This is the evidence of Pbani 
Bhugan Nag , witness No . 1 for the workmen Amar Singh , Deputy Engineer 
Superintendent, witness No. 4 for the Port Commissioners , said : 
" On rlver survey vessels working hours are on the average 8 to 9 hours 

and on other vessels it is 6 to 7 hours . This is according to my 

experience." 
Nevertheless , this witness said that the convention was that engineers or tindals , 
wherever available , shared the duties of engine drivers, when on duty for pretty 
long time. 


- - 


Sec. 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2205 

= - - 

- - -- - - -- 
12 . In my opinion witnesses for the workmen , who spoke of 12 hours of duty 
or even 24 hours of duty without rest and without respite cven for call of nature, 
made a coniusion between active period of duty and the captive period and werc 
prone to exagsciate . They should not be relied on . The worl: gi engine drivers 
are of intermittent nature, which may extend to 6 to 7 to 9 10 y nours per day 
as told by Amar Singh , the Deputy Engineer Superintendent, with breaks Or 
rcliefs in between . It is a . so an admitted lact that engine drivers get overtime 
pay for extra duty hours . This fact is also mentioned in Ext, S , the minutes of 
the meeting of 1.60 Port Commissioners dated January 11, 1954 . On the evidence 
before me, I am of the opinion , the engine drivers do not ordinarily co work 
which is much too tiresome for human body, although the call to work may 
come at any time during duty hours . Those vessels, which go out on lony voyages, 
and on which there is only a single engine driver , may require an extra engine 
driver i . the programine of such vessel is to work for longer hours ther. usual . 
I, therefore , think that the clispute referred to mc should be answered in the 
following manner ; 
(1) The demand of all engine drivers of Port Commissioners vessels for 

providing them relief to enable them to come out of the engine 
room during duty hours is not justifed . Their work is of inter 
mittent nature although they may have to remain captive on board 
for long period . The nature of their duty is not physically much 

too tiresome, 
( U ) Engine drivers of vessels which make long voyages or engine drivers 

of accompanying launches, it not required to do duty for longer 
hours than usual, do not require relief to enable them to come out 
of engine room during duty hours , because of the Intermittent nature 

of their duty , which again is not physically much too tiresome. 
(fil ) If , however, a single engine driver of a long range vessel or of an 

accompanying launch or of other vessels be called upon to do 
longer hours of work than usual, then only a rellef need be pro 

vided to him so as to enable him to relax and rest. 
In propcsing the aforesaid answers, I am conscious of the fact that Engine 
drivers have to remain captive on board either for 12 hours or for 24 hours or 
even for longer durations. I am also conscious of the fact th : t engine drivers 
inay be caller to duty , namely , either to work the engines or to repair them of 
to attend to their maintenance at any time. But living conditions on board is 
not said to be bad and I ain not prepared to hold that engine drivers must 
require relier because they have to stay on board for long. Also , the frict thet 
an engine driver is liable to be called to duty at any hour of the day does not 
necessarily call for relief , because life on a vessel must be by nature of such 
description . 

12 . Mr. Amar Singh , Deputy Engincer Superintendent, has said that the con 
vention is that engineers and tindals share the duty of engine drivers when 
louches may be on duty for pretty long time. I am , however , rot willing to rely 
U convention only . Therefore , the Port Commissioners must make it a pojat 
pid in Vossels mentioned in answer (ili ) above, an engine driver whenever doing 
" for longer than usual hours , rust te provided with relief 12 there be only 
: : enelne driver posted on such vesse ! or the accompanying launch . The Port 
Cor missioners must provide accoràingly . In other cases no such relief is 
nec . : 3ary . 
This is my award 

( Sd.) B . N . BANERJEE , Presiding omcer. 
Dated , April 24 , 1989 . 

(.No. 28 /47 / 68 -LR (III. ) 


eu 


Jellia , the 24th May 1969 


S . O , 2061. - The following draft of a scheme tai neni the Kandla Un 
registered Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employmeni , Scheine, 1968 , which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the lowers conferred oy 
sub section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers ( Regl in of Employment ) 
Act, 1943 ( 9 of 1948 ) , is published as required by the wind sub - section for the 
Information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 


2206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /IYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II — 


given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 1st 
July , 1969 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 


Draft Scheme 
1. This Scheme may be called the Kandla Unregistered Dock Workers ( Regu 
lation of Employment) First Amendment Scheme, 1969. 

2. In the Kandla Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1968 - - 

(1 ) in clause 17 , 
( a ) in item (i ) of sub - clause ( 1 ) , for the expressions " Department of 

Food in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture , Community Develop 
ment and Co -operation of the Government of India " , " Depart 
ment” , of Food " and " aforesaid Department" , the expression 

" Food Corporation of India " shall be substituted ; 
(b ) in items ( vill) and ( xil) of sub -clause ( 1 ) , sub - clause ( 2 ) and sub 

clause ( 4 ) , for the expression “ Department of Food ” the expres 

sion " Food Corporation of India " shall be substituted ; 
( 2 ) in Schedule I, for the expression " Ministry of Food , Agriculture , Com 

munity Development and Co- operation of the Government of India" , 
the expression " Food Corporation of India " , shall be substituted . 

[No . 58 / 3 /69-Fac. II .) 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


ca . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 17th May 1969 


S . O . 2062. Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Iran Tea Trading Company Private Limited , 3A , Chittaranjan Avenue, 
Calcutta -13 bave agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st January , 1969 . 

[No. 8 / 5 /69-PF . II (1) . ] 


S . O . 2063, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 8 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby specifies that, with 
effect from the 31st January , 1969 , section 6 of the said Act shall in its applica 
tion to Messrs Iran Tea Trading Co ., Private Limited , 3A , Chittaranjan Avenue , 
Calcutta - 13 be subject to the modification that for the words " six and a quarter 
per cent" , the words " eight per cent" were substituted . 

[No . 8 / 5 / 69- PF . II (11). ] 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
S . O . 2064 . Whereas the departmentally run establishments / factories under 
the control of the Department of Communications (Posts and Telegraphs Board ) 
specified in Schedule I annexed hereto (hereinafter referred to as the said estab 
lishments / factories ) have applied for exemption under clause (b ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 17 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) ; 

And whereas the employees of the bald establishments / factories are in enjoy 
ment of benefits in the nature of provident fund , pension or gratuity and the 
Central Government is of opinion that such benefits are on the whole not less 
favourable to such employees than the benefits provided under the Employees 


Sec . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2207 


Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and the Employees Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952 (hcreinafter referred to as the said Act and the said Scheme res 
pectively ) in relation to employees in any other establishment / factory of a 
similar character ; 

Now , therefore , In exercise oť the powers conferred by clause ( 9 ) ot sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the said Act and subject to the conditions specified 
in Schedule II annexed hereto , the Central Government hereby exempts the said 
establishments / factories irom the operation of all the provisions of t1 " sald 
Scheme and in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 17 , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the employer in relation to the said establish 
ments / factories shall pay within fifteen days of the close of the month to the 
Employees Provident Fund , inspection charges at the rate of 0 .09 per cent ( zero 
point zero nine per cent ) of the pay (basic wages , dearness allowance , retaining 
allowance, if any , and cash value of food concessions admissible thereon ) for the 
time being payable to the employees of the said establishments / factories who 
would have become members under the said Scheme but for this exemption . 


SCHEDULE I 
Names of departmentally run establishments / factories 
1. Telecom . Factory, Calcutta . 
2 . Telecom . Factory, Jabalpur , 
3 . Telecom . Factory , Bombay. 

SCHEDULE II 
1. The employer shall submit such returns to the Regional Provident Fund 

Commissioner as the Central Government may , from time to time, 

prescribe. 
2 . The employer shall furnish to each employee an annual statement of 

account or Pass Book , 
3 . All expenses involved in the administration of the fund including the 

maintenance of accounts , submission of accounts and returns, trans 
fer of accumulations, payment of Inspection charges etc ., shall be 

borne by the employer . 
4 . Where an employee who is already a member of the Employees Pro 

vident Fund ( Statutory Fund ) or the Provident Fund of another 
exempted establishment is employed in his establishment, the em 
ployer shall immediately enrol him as a member of the Fund of the 
establishment, and accept the past accumulations in respect of such 

employee and credit to his account. 
5 . The employer shall enhance the rate of Provident Fund contribution 

appropriately if the rate of provident fund contributions for the 
class of establishment in which his establishment falls is enhanced 
under the said Act , so that the benefits under the Provident Fund 
Scheme of the establishment shall not become less favourable than 

the benefit provided under the said Act. 
6 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the provident fund rules of the 

establishment if the amount payable to any member , upon his 
ceasing to be an employee of the establishment or transferable on 
his transfer to any other establishment by way of employer s and 
employees contributions plus interest thereon taken together with 
the amount, if any , payable under the Gratuity / Pension Rules, be 
less than the amount that would be payable as employer s and em : 
ployees contributions plus interest thereon , if he were a member 
of the Provident Fund under the said Scheme, the employer shall pay 

the difference to the members as compensation / special contribution . 
7 . No amendment of the provident fund rules shall be made without the 

previous approval of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner . 
Where any amendment is likely to affect adversely the interests of 
the employees, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner shall, 
before giving his approval givc a lesonable opportunity to the em 
ployees to explain their point of vinw . 

No 5 ( 20 )59 PF . II. ] 


2208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II — 


New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2005.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1) of section 13 
of the Employces Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri B . K . Gogate to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Maharashtra for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme 
framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of, the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected 
with a railway company, a major port , a mine or an oil- field or a controlled 
industry . 

[No . 21 ( 8 ) / 69-PF . I (1) . ] 


S . O . 2066 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby rescinds the notifications of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 1196 , dated 22nd May, 1961 and 
No. S . O . 1598 , dated the 17th June 1961. 

( No . 21 ( 8 ) / 69- PF . I ( il) . ] 


S . O , 2067. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employecs Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Social 
Security No. Soo . 3595 , dated the 30th September, 1964, the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri V . A . Lakshmipathy to be an Inspector for the purpose of 
the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any establish 
inent belonging to , or under the control of the Central Government or in relation 
to any establishment connected with a railway company, a major port, a mine 
or an oil- field or a controlled industry . 

[No. 20 (17) / 69 -PF . I. ] 


S . O . 2068. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Art , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and in supersession 
of the Notiflcntion of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour 
and Employment S . O . No, 1701 dated the 25th May , 1962, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri K . N . Shukla to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Gujarat for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scherre framed 
thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or lnder the control 
of the Central Government or in rela ion to any establishment connected with a 
railway company, or a controlled Industry . 

[No 20 (A2 ) / 04 -PF . I.] 


S . O . 2009 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Sarvashri D . N . Tewari and S . S Agarwal to be In 
spectors for the whole of the State of Uttar Pradesh for the purposes of the said 
Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment 
belonging to , or under the control of the Central Government or in relation to 
any establishment connecíed with a railway company, amine or an oil- field or 
a controlled industry . 

[No. 21(4 ) / 68-PF. I.] 


New Delhi, the 23rd May 1969 
S . O . 2070 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 5A of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the Secretary to the Government of Tamil 
Nadu , Labour Department, as a member of the Central Board of Trustees , and 
make the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Social Security No. S . O . 1156 , dated the 1st April , 
1965, namely : - - 


In the said notification , against Item 12 , for the existing entry in the Arst column, 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" The Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu Labour Department, 
Madras." 

[ No. 12(2)68-PF -II] 


SEC . 3 (II)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


S . O . 2071 – . In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme , 
1952, the Central Government liereby sets up a Regional Commitice for the State of Mysore , 
consisting of the following peisoris , namely : 

Chairman 
I. The Secretary to the Government of Mysore , Food , Appointed by the Central Govern 

Civil Supplies and Labour Department, Banga - mçnt. 
lore . 

Members 
2 . Thc Labour Commissioner , Government of My- Persons appointed by the Central 
Bore , Bangalore. 

Government on the re 
3 . The Deputy Secretary to the Government of My- commendation of the State 
sorc , Finance Department, Bangalore. 

Government, 
7. Shri M . K . Pandurangu Setty , Chairman , All India ? Representatives of tmployers 

Manufacturers Organisation ( The Mysore State 
Board ), Partner , Krishnu Flour Mills , Platform Government in consultation 
Road , Bangalore - 23. 

with the Organisations of 
5. Shri Y . N . Gangadhara Setty , President, Mysore employers in the State . 

Chamber of Commerce , Bangalore- 9 . 
6 . Shri A . M . Basave Gowda , Chairman , Mysore 

State Planters Association , Thippar ahulji Estate , 
Chickmagalur. 


Rappointed ay ile Cent AT 


7 . Shri K , B . Thimmaiah , liesident, Indian Na- 

tional Trade Union Corgress , Balaj. Estale. Nay 

amudi P . O . , Goni Koppul, Coorg Districi, 
3 . Shri D . Venkutesh , Cencial Secretary , A / 19 

Bhasma Road , Bangalore - 2 . . 
9 . Shri A . Venkataram , Secretary , Barthiya Mazdoo1 | 

Sangh , Subedarchatram Koad , bu yalc 1c - 9 . 


Repicic taules if onrece4 

arrotICC lyt Cei 1101 
Gucial In ( C1 011a ( 1 
with ible Oigurisalirrifcnf . 
loyees in the Siale . 


(No. PFII 10 (3) /59 .] 


S . O . 2072. - In pursuance of clause ( e ) of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 4 of 
the Employees Provident Fundy Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Dr. Mohanlal Piramal as a member of the Regional Committee for the 
Siate of Maharashtra vice Shri Gopikisan Piramal and makes the following further 
amendnient in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. S . O . 1286, dated the 27th May , 1961, namely : 

In the said notification , for the existing entcy against serial number 10 , the 
following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" 10 . Dr. Mohanlal Piramal, Morarjee Goculcas Spinning and Weaving Com 
pany Limited , Dr. Ambedkar Road , Parcl, Bombay - 12 . 

[No. 12 ( 2 ) 65-PF . II. ) 


S . O , 2073 . - Whereas the establishments under the control of the Ministry of 
Defence , Government of India (hereinafter referred to as the said establishments ) 
have applied for exemption under clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1) of section 17 of the 
Employecs Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) ; 

And whereas , the employees of the said establishments ure in enjoyment of 
benefits in the nature of provident fund , pension or gratuity and the Central Gov 
ernment is of opinion that such benefits are on the whole not less favourable to 
such employees than the benefits provided under the Employees Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) and the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 (herein 
after referred to as the said Act and the said Scheme respectively ) in relation to 
employees in any other establishment of a similar character ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 17 of the said Act and subject to the conditions specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Government hereby exempts , with immediate 
effect , the said establishments from the operation of all the provisions of the said 
Scheme and in pursuance of sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section 17, the Centra } 
Government hereby dlrects that the said establishinents shall pay within Afteen 
days of the close of each month to the Employees Provident Fund inspection 
charges at the rate of 0 . 09 per cent (Zero point zero nine per cent) of the pay 
(basic wages , dearness allowance , retaining allowance, if any, and cash value of 


2210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II 


- - 


- 


. 


. 


- 


food concession admissible thereon ) for the time being payable to the employees of 
the said establishments who would have become members under the said Scheme, 
but for this exemption , 

SCHEDULE 
1. The employer shall submit such returns to the Regional Provident Fund 

Commissioner as the Central Government may , from time to time, 

prescribe . 
2 . The employer shall furnish to each employee an annual statement of 

account or Pass Book . 
3 . All expenses involved in the administration of the Fund including the 

maintenance of accounts , submission of accounts and returns, transfer 
of accumulations, payment of Inspection charges etc ., shall be borne by 

the employer . 
4 . Where an employee who is already a member of the Employees Provident 

Fund (Statutory Fund) or the provident fund of another exempted 
establishment is employed in his establishment, the employer shall 
immediately enrol him as a member of the Fund of the establishment, 
and accept the past accumulations in respect of such employee and 

credit to his account. 
- 5 . The employer shall enhance the late of Provident Fund contribution 

appropriately if the rate of provident fund contributions for the class 
of establishments in which his establishment falls is enhanced under 
the said Act, so that the benefits under the Provident Fund Scheme of 
the establishment shall not become less lavourable than the benefits 

provided under the sald Act , 
6 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the provident fund rules of the 

establishment, if the amount payable to any member, upon his ceasing 
to be an employee of the establishment or transferable on his transfer 
to any other establishment by way of employer s and employees con 
tributions plus interest thereon taken together with the amount, if any , 
payable under the Gratuity / Pension Rules , be less than the amount 
that would be payable as employer s and employees contributions plus 
interest thereon , if he were a member of the provident fund under the 
Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 1952 , the employer shall pay the 

difference to the member as compensation / special contribution . 
7 . No amendment of the rules of the provident fund shall be made without 

the previous approval of the Central Provident Fund Commissioner. 
Where any amendment is likely to airect adversely the interests of the 
employees, the Central Provident Fund Commissioner shall, before 
giving his approval, give a reasonable opportunity to the employees to 
explain their point of view . 

[No . 11( 10 ) / 62- PF . II.) 


S . O . 2074 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Employees , 
State Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makes the 
tollowing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), No. $ . Q . 2531, dated the 9th August , 1968 , namely : - - 

In the said notification , under the heading “ [Nominated by the State Govern 
ments under clause ( a ) of section 4 ] ” in the entry against item 14 , for the words 
" Additional Secretary to the Government of Madras, Industries , Labour and Hous 
Ing Department, Madras " , the words " Secretary to the Government of Tamilnadu in 
" the Labour and Housing Department, Madras " , shall be substituted . 

(No. F . 3 / 2 /09 - H [.] 
New Delhi, the 24th May 1969 
S . O . 2075 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shr] B . S . Chandrasekhara to be an Inspector for 
the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of the saic Act and 
of any Scheme framed thereunder in relation to any establishment belonging 
to , or under the control of the Central Government, or in relation to any establ 
ishment connected with a railway company , a major port, a mine or an oil- field 
or a controlled industry . 

[No. 20 ( 74 ) / 84 -PF .I. ] 


Sec. 3 (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2211 


S . O . 2076 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employers 
and the majority of th eemployees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messr8 Parekh Agencies, Mafatlal House , Backbay Reclamation , Bombay - 1 ( in 
cluding branches at Ahmedabad , Delhi and Calcutta ) have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made 
applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in excrcise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
Bection 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the sald establishinent. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty first 
day of December , 1967 . 

INO. 8 / 33 / 69 - PF . II. ) 


S . O . 2077, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the cmployees in relation to the cstablishment known as 
Messrs Nirvan Industries (Private ) Limited , Road No. K , A - 18 , Wagle Estate , 
Thana including their branch at 204, Arun Chambers , 2nd Floor, Tardeo Road , 
Tardeo, Bombay - 34 . Maharashtra State have agreed that the provisions of the 
Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable 
to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirty first 
day of May , 1967. 

[No. 8 / 29 /A9-PF. II .) 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1969 
S . O . 2078. - - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S .O . 700 , dated the 14th February , 1969, published in the Gazette of India . 
Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( li ), at page 674 

In the entries against Serial Nos. 1 and 2 , in column 2, for " District Phagwara " 
read " District Kapurthala " . 

[No. F . 13 ( 5 ) / 69-HI.) 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


श्रम और नियोजन विभाग 


faraft , 17 HE 1969 
* To TTO 2079 : - 47 : bordeta Raita # F AT ETATE A SITA at 
ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , 3- ए चितरंजन एवेन्यु , कलकत्ता - 13 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य 
fafe gefah, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19 ) # 34078 34 FT97 FT ATT Fong Tha afeg : 

qa , 4a 5a7 ufafirun ERT 1 3981T ( 4 ) TT TTT RAFET ET STATE - 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा 31 जनवरी , 
1969 À TERI 


[ão 8 , 5, 69 70 70 - 2 ( 1 ) 1 


2212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1999 /JYAIŞTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II — 


का० प्रा० 2080 - कर्मचारी भावष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) की 
धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार , इस 
विषय मे प्रावश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् , एतद्वारा यह विनिर्दिष्ट करती है कि उक्त 
अधिनियम की धारा 6, मैसर्स ईरान टी ट्रेडिंग कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 3 - ए चितरंजन एवेन्यू , 
कलकत्ता- 13 को 31 जनवरी 1969 स लाग होने के सम्बन्ध में इस उपान्तरण के अध्याधीन होगी 
कि " सवा छह प्रतिशत " शब्दों के लिए " आठ प्रतिशत " शब्द प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएं । 

___ [ सं० 8/ 5, 69-भ०नि० - 2( 1) ] 


नई दिल्ली , 21 मई 1969 


का0 प्र0 2 181 - -कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त 
अधिनियम और तदधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिये , केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके 
नियन्त्रणाधीन के किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में , या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महा पत्तन , खान या तेल 
क्षेत्र या नियन्त्रित उद्योग से सम्बद्ध किसी स्थापना के सम्बन्ध में श्री बी० के ० गोगटे को समस्त 
महाराष्ट्र राज्य के लिये एनद्वारा निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[स० 21( 8)/ 69- भ०नि० - 1 (I).] 


का० प्रा० 2082 कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19) की 
धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत 
सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम और नियोजन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचनाओं सं० का० प्रा० 1196, तारीख 
22 मई , 196 ] और सं० का० प्रा० 1590 , तारीख 17 जून 1961 को एतद्वारा विखंडित 
करती है । 

[ सं० 21 (8 ) 69 भ० नि० -1 ( 1)] 
के० प्रा० 2 3 83;- -कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
समाज सुरक्षा विभाग की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 3595, तारीख 30 मितम्बर , 1964 को 
प्रतिष्ठित करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त सा और तदधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के 
लिए , केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियन्त्रणाधीन के किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध मे , या किसी रेल कम्पनी , 
महापत्तन , खान या ने न क्षेत्र या नियंजन उद्योग से सम्बद्ध किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में श्री बी० ए० 
लक्ष्मीपथी को ममग्न मैसूर राज्य के लिये, एनद्वारा निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० 20 ( 17 )/ 69-भ० नि०--1.] 
का० प्रा० 2034 ----कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की 
धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
श्रम और नियोजन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का० प्रा० सं० 1701, तारीख 25 मई , 1962 को 
अधिष्ठित करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम और तदधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के 
लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन के किसी स्थान के सम्बन्ध म , या किसी रेल कम्पनी 
या किसी नियत्रित उद्योग से सम्बद्ध किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में श्री के० एन० शुक्ल को समस्त गुजरात 
राज्य के लिये एतद्वारा निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं 20 ( 62 ) 64 - भ० नि० - 1.] 


Auc. 360 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2213 


का०मा०2089 : - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 
19ी उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम और 
सपपीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए , केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाषीन के किसी 
स्पापन के सम्बन्ध में , या किसी रेल कम्पनी, खान या तेल- क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बद्ध किसी 
समापन के सम्बन्ध में सर्वश्री डी० एन० तिवारी और एस . एस . अग्रवाल को समस्त उत्तर प्रदेश 
राज्य के षिए एतद्वारा निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० 21( 4)/ 68--भ . नि . - 1.] 


नई दिल्ली, 23 मई, 1969 
का० प्रा० 2036: -- -कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम , 1952 के पैरा 4 के उप -पैरा ( 1 ) 
कोर्खर ( ड ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री गोपी कृष्ण पीडामल के स्थान पर डा० मोहन लाल 
पीड़ामल को महाराष्ट्र राज्य को प्रादेशिक समिति का सदस्य एतदद्वारा नियुक्त करती है और भारत 
सरकार के भूतपूर्व नियोजन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० का प्रा . 1286, तारीख 27 मई , 1961 में 
निम्नलिखित प्रतिरिक्त संशोधन करती है, अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , क्रम सं० 10 के सामनेविद्यमान प्रविष्टि के लिए निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि 
प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : - - 
“ 10 - डा . मोहन लाल पीडामल , 

मोरार जी गोकुलदास स्पिनिंग एन्ड बीविंग 
कम्पनी लिमिटेड, 
डा० अम्बेडकर रोड, परेल , 
नम्बई - 12 " 

[ सं० 12( 2)/ 65 भ० नि० - 2] 
का० प्रा० 2037: -- -कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि स्कीम , 1952 के पैरा 4 के अनुसरण में 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा मैसूर राज्य के लिए एक प्रादेशिक समिति की स्थापना करती है , जिसमें 
निम्नलिखित व्यक्ति होंगे , अर्थात् -- 

अध्यक्ष 
1. सचिव, मैसूर सरकार , 

खाद्य, सिविल पूर्ति और श्रम विभाग, केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त । 
बंगलौर । 

सदस्य 
2. श्रम श्रायक्त , मैसूर सरकार , 
बंगलौर। 

| राज्य सरकार की सिफारिश पर 
3. उप सिचव, मैसूर सरकार, वित्त विभाग , ( केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त व्यक्ति । 

बंगलौर । 
4. श्री एम० के पाण्डुरंग सेट्टी , 

अध्यक्ष, अखिल भारतीय विनिर्माता संग- ( नियोजकों के ऐसे प्रतिनिधि जो राज्य में नियोजकों 

न ( मै पूर राज्य बोर्ड) , साझीदार के संगठन के परामर्श से केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा 
कृष्णा पाटा मिल , प्लेटफार्म रोड , नियुक्त किए गए हों । 
बंगलौर - 231 


2214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA TO , 1891 


TNT 


5. श्री वाई० एन० गंगाधार सेट्टी , प्रध्यक्ष, 

मैसूर चैम्बर अफ कामर्स , बंगलौर - 9 । 
6. श्री ए० एम० पासव गोडा, अध्यक्ष , मैसूर 
__ एस्टेट एसोसिएगन ,थिप्पनाहेली एस्टेट , 

चिफमागलूर 
7. श्री के० बी० थिम्मया, 

अध्यक्ष , इंडियन नशनल ट्रेड यूनियन 
कांग्रेस , नाना जी एस्सेट नामुडी । 

डाकखाना , गोनी कोपाल , जिला कुर्ग । । 
8. श्री डी० वेक्टेश, जनरल सेक्रेटरी , 

ए19 भाश्म रोड , बंगलौर - 2 । 
9. श्री ए . वेक्टरम, सचिव, भारतीय 

मजदूर संघ, मूत्रेदार वनगम रोड , 
बंगलोर-9 । 


कर्मचारियों के एसे प्रतिनिधि भो राज्य 
में कर्मचापियों के संगठनों के परामर्श से 
केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त किए गए । 


[ फा० सं० पी० एफ० 2/ 16( 3) 500 


नई दिल्ली, 24 मई, 1969 
का० प्रा० 2088 : -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 10 ) 
की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधि 
नियम और तदधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजन के लिए , केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन 
के किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में , या किसी रेल कम्पनी , महा-पतन , खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंतित योग 
से सम्बद्ध किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में श्री बी० एम० चन्द्र शेखर को समस्त प्रान प्रदेश राज्य के 
लिए एतदद्वारा निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 


[ सं० 20 ( 74 )/ 64- पी० एफ . - 11 


का० प्रा० 2089 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स पारेख एजेन्सी 
मफतलाल हाउस , बेकवे , रिक्लमेशन , मुम्बई - 1 (जिसके अन्तर्गत अहमदाबाद दिल्ली और कसकता 
स्थित शाखाये भी है ) नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियो की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर 
सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उपस 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए : 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदा शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उमत स्थापन को एपदद्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1967 के दिसम्बर के एकनीसवं दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० 8/ 33/ 69, मनि - 2) 


का० प्रा० 290 : -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स निर्वाण रास्ट्रीज 
( प्राइवेट लि० , रोड नं0 के , ए -18, वागले एस्टेट, थाना ; जिसके अन्तर्गत 204, अरुण, चम्बसे सकत 
पर, तारदेव रोड, तारदेव मुम्बई - 34, महाराष्ट्र राज्य स्थित उनकी शाखा पाती है, नामक स्थापना 


fuc 30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2215 


से सम्बन्ध , नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहु संख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी 
afq4 farfa ufufith , 1952 ( 1952 FT 19 ) # 3T 377 F3197 FT TIT FAITE A 
sufer : 

मतः अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
पए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
* V I 1967 The Fra FTT 177 Fit TTT ZE Het ordet i 

[FO 8/29/79/Hoffo - 2] 

दलजीत सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
A - O . 2091 / PWA / Sec . 14 /Mines / Oli felds / Alr Transport Services. In exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 14, read with section 24 of 
the Payment of Wages Act . 1936 ( 4 of 1936 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendments in the notifcation of the Government of India 

2 the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No . S . O . 1151 , dated the 16th March , 1968 . 
In the said notification , 
(1 ) in Item 1, 
(a ) in serial No. 2 , in column (2 ), for the entry " Deputy Chief Labour 

Commissioner ( Central ) , New Delhi” , the entry " Deputy Chief 

Labour Commissioners (Central) , New Delhi" shall be substituted ; 
(b ) in serial Nos . 3 , 4 and 9 , in column ( 2 ) , for the words " Central 

Institute of Training in Industrial Relations" , the words " Indian 

Institute of Labour Studies” shall be substituted ; 
( c ) serlal No. 6 shall be omitted ; 
10 ) Item VII and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted and items 

VIII, IX , X and XI shall be renumbered as items VII, VI11, 1X and 

X , respectively ; 
( 61 ), in item VII, as so renumbered , in the entry in column ( 3 ) , the words 

" excluding the District of Singhbhum ” shall be added at the end ; 
( iv ) in item X , as so renumbered for the entry in column ( 3 ) , the entry 

" The Districts of Burdwan , Birbhum , Bankura and Purulia , in the 

State of West Bengal" shall be substituted ; 
( ved after item X , as so renumbered , the following item shall be added , 

namely : 
XI 1, Regional Libjir C ). missioner (Cen - ] The State of Orissa and the District of 
tral), Bhubancuh :var, 

| Singhbhum in the State of Bihar , 
2 . AL Assistant Labour Commissioners 

( Central) in Bhubaneshwar region . 
3 . AN Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 
in Bhubanesliwar region . 

[No. 19 / 1 / 19 -Fac. I.] 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1969 
810 . 2092 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute 


2216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA PO , 1890 


Part 1 


between the employers in relation to the management of Assam Railway and 
Trading Company Limited , Margherita , Assam and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 6th May , 1969. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA . 

MISCELLANEOUS APPLICATION NO. 7 OF 1988 

(ARISING OUT OF REF. No. 154 OF 1966 ) 
PARTIES : 

Shri Sudhir Ranjan Das, Medical Officer , Aggam Railways fod Trading 
Co., Margherita , Assam 

Applicant 
V . 8. 
The General Manager, Assam Rallways and Trading Com , Margherita 

Assam . - Opp . party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant. — Shri Sudhir Ranjan Das, Applicant. 

On behalf of Opp. Party .- Shri Pankaj Coomar Ghose Advocate . 
STATE : Assam . 

INDUSTRY : Coal Minom 
AWARD 


This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947. The applicant, Şudhir Ranjan Das , was a Medical Oncer under Ansam 
Rallways and Trading Company . He was dismissed from service , pending disposal 
of a reference to this tribunal, being Reference No. 154 of 1966 . Accordtag to 
the applicant, the order of dismissal contrayened the provisions of Section 39 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and that induced him to make the present 
complaint to this tribunal. 


patient 


wat Borgolar our petitionerner s dismissal 


2 . In paragraphs 3 , 4 , 5 and 6 of his written complaint to this tribunal, the 
applicant stated : 

" 3. That the facts leading to your petitioner s dismissal is as under : 
That on 16th May, 1968, your petitioner was the medical officer of the 

company at Borgolai hospital. On that day he forwarded a child 
patient suffering from gastroenteritis to Ledo hospital of the 
Company as there was no arrangement for treating such acuto 
case at that hospital. On the following date, 17th May 1000 , the 
Medical Superintendent, Margherita , sent a confidential note w 
ing for an explanation from your petitioner as to why the child 
was not given injection and further why he was not forwarded to 
Margherita Central hospital. The applicant answered stating the 
circumstances in which the patient had to be forwarded to Lodo 
hospital. Not satisfied with his explanation — The Medical super 
intendent held an enquiry , which was conducted by Junior modt 
cal oflicers and in this enquiry the principle of naturel Putih 
was not observed and he was not given any chance to cr u m . 
them or adduce evidence and after that enqluryh he was given 

a warning on the 7th of June 1968. 
4 . That thereafter on 29th June, 1968 - -the medical Suporintendent of the 

Company issued a transfer order requiring the applicant to mov 
to Tipong Colliery of the Company . This is simply & Hero of 

double punishment. 
5 . That the applicant wanted time to shift as his wife was f11 - Itwa Doll 

granted and he was dismissed from service in violation of the pro 
visions of the standing order of the company and in vtolation of 

the principles of natural Justice . 
6 . That the applicant submit that he has been dismissed from service, only 

because the medical superintendent of the company was barod od 
prejudiced against him ." 


2217 


Sec . 3( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 

- - - 
On the allegations aforesaid he claimed relief, 


. . 


3 . In the rejoinder filed by the empolyer company , there was a preliminary 
objection taken to the effect that the applicant was not a workman . That pre 
liminary objection is contained in paragraph 3 of the written statement, which I 
Bet out below : 
" 3 . The Company states that the applicant, Sri Sudhir Ranjan Das is not 

" workman " within the meaning of Section 2 ( s ) of the said Act. 
Sri Das at all material times prior to his dismissal from service on 
27th July , 1968 was employed as the Medical Officer of the Com 
pany s Baragolai Colliery and being employed in a supervisory capa 
city as aforesaid , Sri Das was drawing a salary of more than 

Rs. 500 per month as shown in details below : 
Basic salary 

Rs. 550 . 00 per month 
Dearness allowance 

R . 137 . 50 » » 
Cash compensation in livu of food rations Rs. 13 : 78 , , 


Total 


Rs. 701. 299 ) 


So far as merits are concerned , it was stated in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the written 
statement: 


" 6 . The Conipany states ilal Shri Sudhir Kanjan Das was at all material 

tinies prior to his dis nissal from Service on 27th July , 1968 employ 
ed as Medical Oficer in the Company s Baragolai Colliery . While 
30 employed the Company in the usual course served hin with office 
order No . 1081- 82 /MS dated 29th June , 1968 transferring Sri Dac 
for being posted at the Company s Tlpong Colliery Hospital as 
Medical Omcer-in - charge of the said Tipong Hospital with effect 
from 4th July , 1968 . In reply to the said office order, Sri Das by 
his letter dated 1st July , 1968 intimated various dificulties that 
stood in the way of his moving to Tipong and requested the Com 
pany to grant him two inonth s time to do so . The Company was 
unable to accede to his unrcasonable and unjustified request and 
by its letter dated 3rd July , 1968 , Intimated to Sri Das that the office 
order dated 29th June, 1968 had to be complied with by Sri Das 
otherwise the Company would be forced to adopt disciplinary 
proceedings against him . Sri Das did not comply with the said law 
ful and reasonable order of the superior and by his letter dated 3rd 
July , 1968 Intimated to the Cornpany his inability to move to Tipong 
Colllery Hospital, * * * 


7. As the aforsaid act on the part of Sri Das constituted misconduct under 

the Clause 10 , Section ( c ) , Sub -section ( 1 ) of the Company s Stan 
ding Orders the Company on 4th July , 1968 served him with a 
charge -sheet charging him with the following offence in that on the 
morning of 4th July , 1968 at about 7 - 30 a . m ., (local time) when 
Dr. D . B . Ghosh went to take charge of the Baragolai Dispensary , 
as per Omce Order No. 1081-82 / MS of 29th June, 1968 , Sri Sudhir 
Ranjan Das refused to hand over charge and Dr . D . B . Ghosh had 
to come back . Thus Sii Daş violated the transfer order , mide Order 
No. 1081- 82 / MS of 29th June , 1968 and put all concerned in great 
dificulty . Dr. D . B . Ghosh who went to Baragolai Dispensary to 
take over charge from Sri S . R . Das returned back when Sri Das 
refused to hand over charge. Dr. Ghosh submitted a report to the 
management on 4th July , 1968 , to that effect. Sri Das by the said 
charge- sheet was asked to submit his explanation within three days 
of the receipt of the chargesheet . Since the charge levelled against 
Sri Das was of serious nature he was suspended with immediate 
effect pending engulries into the matter . Sri Das in his reply 

dated 5th July , 1968 denied the charges ." 
As regards , the enquiry, it was stated in paragraph 9 of the written statement : 
" On 12th July , 1968, an enquiry into the charges against Sri Das was held 

in accordance with the procedurę laid down in the Standing Orders 


2218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ Part II 


in which Sri Das took part. The Company s witnesses were exami 
ned one after the other and were offered for cross- examination by 
Sri Das. Sri Das however , declined to cross - examine the said wit 
nesses and made a statement relying upon his written explanation 
and further declined to examine any defence witness. At the said 
enquiry Sri Das was given all fair and reasonable opportunity to 
defend himself by cross - examining of the Company s witnesses , by 
producing defence witnesses and by making statements in defence. 
The proceedings were recorded and Sri Das put his signature on 
every page of the recorded minutes. The Enquiry Officer after a 
careful consideration of the chargesheet, the reply thereto and the 
proceeding at the enquiry came to the conclusion that Sri Das was 
gullty of the charges levelled viz . wilful disobedience to a lawful 
and reasonable order of his superior and recommended that Sri Das 

be dismissed from service with immediate effect." 
In paragraph 10 of the written statement it is stated that an appeal against the 
penal order passed against the applicant stood dismissed by the General Manager , 
It was lastly stated in paragraph 16 of the written statement : 


" 18 . * * * The Company states that the said order of transfer was fair and 

reasonable and issued in the usual course in exercise of the Com 
pany s discretion in the matter of transfer of its personnel from 
one place to another . Sri Das violated the said lawful and reason 
able order of his superior which constituted misconduct under 
Clause 10 , Section ( c ) Sub - section ( 1 ) of the Standing Orders. A 
charge - sheet was accordingly served on him and a departmental 
enquiry followed . The Company dismissed Sri Das from the ser 
vices of the Company with effect from 27th July 1968 on the basis 
of the findings of the departmental enquiry as hereinbefore stated . 

It is denied that the applicant was dismissed from service in vio 
lation of the provisions of the Standing Orders of the Company and 
in violation of the principles of natural justice as alleged in para 
graph 5 of the petition or at all. It is further denied that the appli 
cant has been dismissed from service only because the Medical 
Superintendent of the Company was biased and prejudiced against 

him as alleged in paragraph 6 of the petition or at all." 
In the background of these pleadings, I have to decide the complaint made before 
this tribunal, 

4 . It was conteded , on behalf of the applicant, that the order of dismissal had 
been passed during the pendency of a proceeding before this tribunal but no 
application for approval of the order of dismissal was made before this tribunal, 
under the provisions of Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. It was 
submitted that this made the order prima -facie bad and that this Tribunal must 
set aside the order . 

5 . Mr. Pankaj Coomar Ghose , learned advocate for the employer company , 
sought to repel this argument with the contention that even if no application 
under Section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act had been made, it was 
open to this tribunal to examine the case on the merits and, if satisfied that the 
order of dismissal had been properly made, to uphold the order on merits . In 
support of this proposition , he firstly relied upon a judgment of Supreme Court 
in Punjab National Bank vs. their workmen ( 1959) II LLJ 66 in which Gajendra 
gadkar , J (aş he then was ) observed : 
" Thus there can be no doubt that in an enquiry under Section 33A the 

employee would not succeed in obtaining an order of reinstatement 
merely by proving contravention of Section 33 by the employer . It 
there is such contravention proved , it will still be open to the emp 
loyer to justify the impugned dismissal on merits. That is a part 
of the dispute which the tribunal has to consider because the comp 
laint made by the employee is industrial dispute and all the rele 

vant aspect of the dispute fall to be considered under Section 33A " . 
He also relied upon a single judge decision of the Calcutta High Court in Ram 
Chandra Pal v . Titaghur Paper Mills (and others (- 965 ) II LLJ 226 , in which 
the following passage appears : 
" The whole question of legality or illegality of the discharge of the emp 

loyee is in issue under Section 33A and is to be disposed of as an 
industrial dispute independently by the tribunal under Section 10 


:Sec . 3 (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2219 


of the Act dealing with a pending dispute . Indeed , if there is 
no contravention of Section 33 of the Act, Section 33A does not 
at all operate and therefore, the fact of contravention of Section 33 
glves jurisdiction to entertain the proceeding under Section 33A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act. On the question of application under 
Section 33A , I have expressed generally by views in the case of 
Mcleod & Co . v . Sixth Industrial Tribnal, West Bengal, and others 
( A . I . R . 1958 Cal. 273) and I consider it unnecessary here to repeat 
what I said there . All that I need cite at this stage is the subse 
(quent Supreme Court decision in the case of Delhi Cloth and General 
Mills Company Ltd , V . Sri Rameshwar Dayal ( 1960 - II L . L . J . 712) . 
This present argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner 
cannot succeed after that decision . It is now clearly laid down 
by the Supreme Court in that decision , that in an enquiry under 
Section 33A the employee would not succeed in obtaining an order 
of reinstatement merely by proving contravention of Section 33 

of the Act by the employer ." 
" This being the law , I have to over -rule the preliminary point urged on behalf 
of the applicant. 

1 . I have next to deal with a preliminary objection , urged by Mr. Pankaj 
Coomar Ghose on behalf of he employer . He contended , on the basis of the 
materials in paragraph 3 of the written statement and also on the basis of the 
following passage of evidance of Satya Narayan Chatterjee, Medical Superin 
tendent of the employer company : 
" He used to get Rs, 6 as Cycle allowance , less proportionate dcduction 

for days on leave, Rs. 137 50 paise as dearness allowance , Rs. 13 . 78 
paise & s food concession , Rs. 20 / - as servant allowance over and 
above the basic wages of Rs. 550 / -, making a total of Rs. 728 / 

(Wage bill marked Ext . 1 ) ." 
that the applicant was not a workman within the meaning of Section 2 ( s ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act and as such he was not entitled to any relief under 
the Industrial Disputes Act, The definition of workman under Section 2 ( 3 ) 
reads : 
" 2 ( 8 ) workman means any person ( including an apprentice ) employed in 

any industry to do any skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory tech 
nical or clerical work for hire or reward , whether the terins of emp 
loyment be expressed or implied , and for the purposes of any pro 
ceeding under this Act in relation to an industrial dispute , includes 
any such person who has been dismissed , discharged or retrenched 
in connection with , or as a consequence of, that dispute , or whose 
dismissal, discharge or retrenchment has led to that dispute , but does 
not include any such person 


( ii) * * * 
( iii) who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity ; or 
( iv ) who, being employed in a supervisory capacity , draws wages exceeding 

five hundred rupees per mensem or excrcise , either by the rature of 
the duties attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in 
him , functions mainly of a managerial nature ." 


In explaining the provisions of Section 2 ( s) It was observed by Hidayatullah . J 
(as he then was) in All India Reserve Bank Employees Association and another 
vs . Reserve Bank of India and another ( 1965 ) II LLJ, 175 ( at 186- 87 ) : 
« * * The amending Act of 1956 introduced among the categories of persons 

already mentioned persons employed to do supervisory and technical 
work . So far the language of the earlier enactment was used . When , 
however, exceptions were engrafted , that language was departed from 
in Clause (lv ) partly because the draftsman followed the language 
of Clause ( ili) and partly because from persons employed on super 
vision work some are to be excluded because they draw wages ex 
ceedling Rs. 500 per mouth and some because they unction manly 
in a managerial capacity or have duties of the same character . But 
the unity between the opening part of the definition and Clause ( iv ) 
was expressly preserved by using the word such twice in the open 
ing part. The words, which bind the two parts , are not , but does 
not include any person , They are but does not include any person 


2220 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(Part II 


- 


showing clearly that what is being excluded is a person who answers 
the description employed to do supervisory work and he is to be 
excluded because being employed in a supervisory capacity he draws 
wages exceeding Rs, 500 per month or exercises functions of a parti 
cular character . * * * the amending Act of 1956 in our country was 
passed to equalize bargaining power and also to give the power of 
bargaining and invoking the Industrial Disputes Act to supervisory 
workmen , but it gave it only to some of the workmen , employed on 
supervisory work . Workmen herc includes an employee employed 
as supervisor , There are only two circumstances in which such a 
person ceases to be a workman . Such a person is not a workman if 
he draws wages in excess of Rs. 500 per month or if he performs 
managerial functions by reason of a power vested in him or by the 
nature of duties attached to his office . The person who ceases to be 
a workman is not a person who does not answer the description emp 
loyed to do supervisory work but one who does answer that descrip 
tion , He goes out of the category of workman on proof of the cir 

cumstances excluding him from the category ." 
That the applicant, in the instant case , was drawing wages above Rs . 500 / - admits 
of no doubt. Question is whether he was cmployed in a supervisory capacity or 
whether by rcason of the powers vested in him his functions were mainly of a 
managerial nature . On this point, Dr. Satya Narayan Chatterjee geve elaborate 
evidere. in his examination -in - chief , he stated : 
" He used to have two pharmacist and two dressers under him at Bargolai 

dispensary . JIC also had one pharmacist and one dresser at another 
dispensary at Tilak also under him . Dr . Das as Medical Officer of 
Bargolai dispensary was directly in charge of them . The medical 
staft get one day as weekly rest day . Dr. Das used to decide which 
day would be the rest day for which one of the staff , Dr. Das was 
not entrusted with any clcrical work . He use to write out prescrip 
tions in his own hands . Dr. Das was not entitled to any ove : time 

wages . 
He further said that besides being the medical officer , the work entrusted to Dr. 
Das was administrative work . Nevertheless, Dr. Chatterjee admitted in his 
examination in chief : 
" I am the Head of the medical staff under Assam Railway & Trading Com 

pany . * * 
To Tribunal: 
At times I go to inspect the dispensaries. I go there to find out whether the 

Medical Officers are doing work properly and also whether the dis 
pensaries are being maintained properly . At time I pught to check 
up the stock kept in the dispensaries. I have never carried out phy 
sical verification of the stock . I generally depend on the signature 

of the Medical Officer ." 
In cross - examination Dr. Chatterjee further said : 
" Under the rules of the company, medical staff get one day as weekly off 

day and the Medical Omcer settles which one is to be off and which 
day . It is not always that medicine indents were made by the Medi 
cal Officer of Bargolai dispensary in his own hand . Pharmacists 
often used to do that and the Medical Officer used to sign that. It 
may be that Overman , Deputy Overman and Head clerk also get 
casual leave . I never sanctioned leave for one hour or half an hour , 
To grant half day casual leave is an existing pactice in all units . It 

is true that casual leave cannot be sanctioned by the Medical Officer ." 
7 . Considering the evidence of Dr. Chatterjee as a whole , I cannot induce my 
self to believe that the work of Dr Das was either managerial in nature or wholly 
supervisory in character. He was much low down in the hierarchy and the Medi 
cal Superintendent was the real manager of the show . In the view that 
I tako, I am disinclined to hold that the applicant was not a workman falling out 
side the definition of Section 2 ( s ) of the Industrial Disputes Act and as such not 
entitled to the benefits of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

8 . I now turn to the merits of the case. This I have to do because the neces 
sary approval of this tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act was not obtained at the time when the order of dismissal was made. It ap 
pears that there was an order of transfer made on June 26, 1968 calling upon the 


SEC . 3 ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 222 11 

= : = - 
applicant to report for duty at Tipong hispital from Baragolai dispensary ( Ext. 2 ) . 
On receipt of the order of transfer , the applicant made an applicantion dated July 
1 , 1968 ( Ext. 3 ) , for postponement of the order of transfer , in the following 
language : 
" With reference to you Office Order No. 1081 -82 / MS dated 29th June , 1968, 

which I have received on 30th June, 1968 , I beg to state that now it 
is very difficult on my part to move to Tipong Colliery hospital with 
in these short time because my wife is sick at present and moreover 
she is working as a Head Mistress at the Baragolai Colliery M . E . 
Cum - L . P . School and she has not been provided with any quarter 

and I have to arrange accommodation here for her . 
I have got some financial difficulties which I have to meet before going 

to Tipong Colliery Hospital. 
Therefore, I request your honour to kindly grant me two months time from 

this date for which act of kindness I shall ever pray ," 
This application was rejected , on July 3, 1968 (Ext. 4 ) , in the following language : 
" Please note my order No. 1081- 82 /MS dated 29th June, 1968 still holds 

good . If you do not move on the stipulated date and time, I will 

be forced to take disciplinary action against you ." 
In spite of warning contained in the above letter , the applicant made the same 
prayer again for postponement of the order of transfer , by another application 
dated July 3 , 1968 ( Ext. 5 ) . He did not allow Dr. D . B . Ghose , who was sent to 
relieve hin at Baragolai to take charge of the Baragolai dispensary ( Ext . 6 ) . 
Thereupon , the following chargesheet (Ext. 7 ) was served upon the applicant : 
“ On the morning of 4th July , 1968 at about 7.30 a.m . ( local time when 

Dr. D . B . Ghosh , went to take charge of the Baragolai Dispensa . y , as 
per my Office Order No. 1081- 82 / MS of 29th June, 1968 you refusca 
to hand over the charge and Dr. D . B . Ghosh had to come back . Thus 
you have violated the transfer order vide my Order No. 1081 - 82 /MS 

of 29th June, 1968 and put all concerned in grcat difficulty . 
You are liereby rejoined to submit a written statement within three days from 

the date of receipt of this notice showing why disciplinary action 

should not be taken against you , 
Since the chargc levelled against you is of serious nature, you are hereby 

suspended with immediate effect pending final order in the matter ." 
The enquiry into the chargesheet was held , as appears from the proceedings 
marked Ext. 10 , in the presence of the applicant. He was given opportunity to 
cross -examine witness but he declined to cross - examine. He was found guilty 
of the charge and the enquiring officer recommended his dismissal. The order 
of dismissal was then passed . 

9. In his evidence before this Tribunal, the applicant said I find fault with the 
enquiry " for the reason that the chargesheet was served by the Superintendent 
and he became the enquiring officer and therefore he must have becoine biased 
against me. This is my sole grievance " . There is no other evidence of bias 
against the enquiring officer. In my opinion , the grievance of bias is only an 
apprehension , very cheaply levelled against the enquiring officer . I am not im 
pressed by the charge of bias and make little of it. He also pleaded several domes 
tic difflculties of his own which , he said , prevented him from complying with the 
order of transfer . In the first place , he alleged that his wife was a school mistress 
and was residing with him . She would not be in a position to leave for Tipong 
with him . If he was required to vacate his quarters at Baragolai, she would have 
no other place to reside in . In the next place, he had bazar debts and unless 
those debts were cleared oft he would not be in a position to move. In cross 
examination , however , he made a different case about his wife . He said that the 
school was closed for vacation but because she was ill she was unable to move . 
I wonder how a medical practioner was unable to remove his wife to a hospital, 
where he was being transferred as the doctor - in - charge. At last, the applicant 
admitted , I could have taken her and got her admitted at Tipong hospital Thus, 
his Orst romestic difficulty appears to be unsubstantial. The school comes 
tic difficulty as pleaded by him is equally so . He stated in cross examination that 
his indebtness was so high that one month s salary would not clear of his dues , 
If that was so , his was a case of chronic insolvency and why he should be allowed 
to wait indefinitely to clear up his large indebtness passes my comprehension , I 
am , therefore, of the opinion that he had no justifable ground to oppose the order 
of transfer. It thus appears , that there was a lawful order of transfer made or 


. 2222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


(Part II 


mere elle propeene to my opinicomply with 


the applicant. He did not comply with the lawful order. He was charged with 
misconduct and in my opinion rightly so . The enquiry that was held against him 
was a proper enquiry and observed the rules of natural justice. The plea of blas 
levelled against the enquiring officer was wholly unsatisfactory . Therefore , there 
was no contravention of the rules of justice in dismissing him . 

10 . I therefore find little substance in the application made before this tribunal 
and in the grievance therein contained . I, therefore, dismiss this application with 
the observation that the order of dismissal made against the applicant was a 
correct and proper one. 

11 . The applicant has not been paid his dues , by the employer . That was 
offered but not collected by the applicant. The amount due to him is mentioned 
in Exhibit D to the Rejoinder fled by the employer before this Tribunal. The 
employer agrees to pay the amount to the applicant on any day the applicant 
may call at the office mentioned in Ext. D , with previous notice to the employer . 
Let this be done. 
This is niy award . 

Sd ./ - B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer . 
Dated, April, 25, 1989. 

[ No . 1 / 44 / 67 -LRII . 1 
$ . 0 . 2093. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (NO. 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of 1 / 12 and 2 / 12 Inclines 
of Kendwadih Colllery of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited and Messrs 
G . S . Atwal and Company ( Asansol) Raising and Selling Agents of said East Indian 
Coal Company Limited and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 13th May , 1969. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer. 
REFERENCE NO. 241 OF 1987 . 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1) (d ) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of 1 / 12 and 2 / 12 Inclines of 

Kendwadih Colliery of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited and 
Messrs G . S . Atwal & Company (Asansol ) Raising and Selling Agents 

of the said East Indian Coal Company Limited on the one hand , 
AND 

Their workmen on the other hand. 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the 1st employer : Shri S . $ . Mukherjee, Executive Committee 

Member , Raniganj Chamber of Commerce. 
On behalf of the 2nd employer : Shri B . K . Lath , Labour Adviser . 
On belalf of the workmen : Shri Lalit Burman , General Secretary , Bihar 

Koyala Mazdoor Sabha , 
STATE : Bihar 

Dhanbad 8th May , 1969 . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the management of 112 and 2 12 Inclines 
of Kendwadih Colllery of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited and Messrs 
G , S . Atwal and Company (Asansol) Raising and Selling Agents of the said East 


SEC . 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2223 

- 
Indian Coal Company Limited on the one hand and their workmen , on the other 
hand by its order No. 2 / 55 / 67 - LRII dated 5th July 1967 referred to this Tribunal 
under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 for adjudication . 
the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed thereto . 
The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of 1 / 12 and 2 / 12 Inclines of Kendwadih Colliery 

(Post Qice Kusunda , District Dhanbad ) of Messrs East Indian Coal 
Company Limited and Messrs G . S . Atwal and Company ( Asansol) , 
Raising and Selling Agents of the said East Indian Coal Company 
Limited were justified in refusing employment to Shri Amar Singh , 
Overman on and from 14th July 1986 ? If not, to what relief is 

the workman concerned entitled ? " 
2 . Employers as well as the workmen Aled their statements of demands, 
Employer No. 2 filed a rejoinder also to the statement of the workmen . 

3. Snri Amar Singh (hereinafter referred to as the affected workman ) was 
a Overman of 1 / 12 and 2 / 12 Inclines of Kendwadih Colliery . M / s . East Indian 
Coal Company Ltd ., (hereinafter referred to as employer No. 1 for convenience ) 
are the proprietors and M / s . G . S . Atwal et , Co . (hereinafter referred to as 
employer No . 2 for convenience ) were Raisits and Selling Agents of employer 
No. 1. The affected workman proceeded in sanctioned leave from 23rd May , 
1966 to 27th May, 1966 . But he sought extension of leave on the ground of his 
sickness . The management sent a letter to the affected workman to report for 
duty by 18th July 1966 and informed him that in default action would be taken 
against him for terminating his services. The affected workman reported for 
duty on 14th July 1966 and submitted a medical certificate in proof of nis being 
sick . But the management did not allow him to resume duty . On 20th July 
1965 the management issued a letter to the affected workman informing him 
that he was charged for remaining absent without permission or authorised 
leave froin 28th May , 1966 to 13th July , 1966 and that he should show cause 
within 48 nours as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him . 
The affected workman submitted his explanation . On 23rd July , 1966 the Mana 
ger of employer No . 1 issued a letter cancelling the authorisation issued to the 
affected workman . Thus, the affected workman was made idle on and from 
14th July 1966 . These facts are not in dispute. The case of the workmen is 
that the idleness imposed on the affected workman by employer No, 2 by their 
refusal of permission to allow the affected workinai to resume duty and the 
order of the Manager of employer No. 1 cancelling the authorisation issued to 
the affected workman were illegal and unjustified . Employer No . 2 took a legal 
objection at the outset to the Reference stating that they being Raising and 
Selling Agents , the Central Government was not the appropriate Government 
to refer the dispute for adjudication . On merits they pleaded that inasmuch 
as employer No . i cancelled the authorisation issued to the affected workman , 
the affected workman could not be permitted to work and that employer No. 1 
are solely responsıble for the consequences , Employer No. 1 also raised a legal 
objection in their statement that they were not " employers as contemplated by 
Section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and as such they were un 
necessarily made a party to the Reference , On merits , their case is that employer 
No. 2 being Raising and Selling Agents appointed their own workmen and staff 
and were paying them wages and other emoluments , that the affected workman 
was neither employed by employer No. 1 nor did employer No 1 refuse employ 
ment to him on and from 14th July , 1966, that the Deputy Chief Inspector of 
Mines (North Zone ) informed cmployer No . 1 that the appointment of the 
supervisory staff by employer No. 2 directly went against the statute and direct 
ed that the action be taken to remove the defects , that in pursuance of the above 
direction employer No. 1 issued a letter to the affected workman and 15 others 
asking them to take appointment from employer No . 1 , that the affected work 
man and 3 others did not accept the offer made by employer No. 1 and that as 
such , employer No. 1 withdrew the authorisation of the affected workman . In 
short, the case of employer No . 1 is that the affccted workman was not entitled 
to any relief against them . The workmen were represented by Shri Lalit Bur 
man , General Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor Sabha , the 1st Employer by 
Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Executive Committee Member , Ranigant Chamber of 
Commerce and 2nd employers by Shri D . K . Lath , Labour Adviser. On admis 
sion by both the employers Exts . W1 to W5 for the workmen and Exts . M 1 
to M 3 for the employer No, 1 on admission by the workmen and employer No. 2 
were marked . On behalf of the workmen a witness was examined . Employer 
No. 1 also examined a witness and marked Exts . M . 4 to NI 7 . No witness was 
examined and no document was marked for employer No. 2 . 


2224 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


4. I propose to deal with the legal objections taken by the employers before 
considering the case on its merits . It is contended for employer No, 1 that the 
affected workman was an employee of employer No. 2 , that there was no rela 
tion of employer and employee between employer No. 1 and the affected work 
man , that employer No, 2 being Raising and Selling Agents were appointing 
their own workmen and staff, dismissing , controlling and dealing with them as 
employers and were also responsible for payment of proper wages and other 
emoluments , that employer No. 1 were not " employers" for the purpose of Sec 
tion 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and that they were made a party 
to the Reference unnecessarily . The contention of employer No . 2 is that em 
ployer No. 1 cancelled the authorisation of the affected workman and as such , 
the affected workman could not be permitted to continue his work . Thus, the 
objection raised by employer No. 1 inyolves in it the mixed question of law 
and fact. Section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 defines " Industrial 
dispute " and not " employer" . Section 2 ( k ) is of little help for Anding out the 
meaning of the term " employer " . Section 2 ( g ) provides the definition of the 
word " employer " . But this definition is not exhaustive and is confined only to 
the meaning of the term in relation to an industry carried on by or under the 
authority of any department of the Central Government or State Government or 
on behalf of a local authority . Whatever be the pleadings, It emerges from the 
material on record that the employer No. 2 had appointed the affected workman , 
that the necessary authorisation to him as an overman as required under the 
Coal Mines Regulations, 1957 was issued by employer No. 1 and that it was em 
ployer No. 1 who had cancelled the authorisation , Ext. M4 is a letter froin the 
Managing Agents of employer No. 1 addressed to employer No. 2 stating therein 
that appointment of the underground supervisory staff were being marle by em 
ployer No. 2 , that employer No 1 hud been informed by the Deputy Chief In 
spector of Mines (North Zone ) that such action was contrary to statute and 
illegal and that employer No. 2 should dismiss all the 16 employees mentioned 
in the letter . The allected workman is one of the 16 employees mentioned in 
the letter . Ext. M5 is a letter issued by MW . 1 in the capa . lty of the Assistant 
Chief Mining Engineer of employer No . 1 to the affected workman and 3 others 
stating that his appointment under emplovny No 2 was contrary to the statute , 
that it was objected to by the Deputy Chlef Inspector of Mines (north Zone ) 
and that as he did not terminate his employment with employer No. 2 and apply 
to employer No. 1 for fresh employment his authorisation had been withdrawn. 
Ext. Mi is an important letter proved by MW . 1 as signed by Shri Bhupendra 
S . Atwal, Partner of employer No. 2 . It is in protest to the letter by the Mana 
ger of employer No. 1 cancelling authorisation issued to the staff who were work 
ing as overmen , mining sirdars , short flrors , etc ., in the nines under employer 
No. 2 . The letter categorically states repeatedly that in accordance with the 
terms of the agreement employer No. 2 had been and were appointink all the 
mining staff directly themselves and that they were competent to make such 
appointments inasmuch as they were Agents under the terms of the contract 
Under Regulation 36 of the Coal Mines Regulations, 1957 It is the duty of cvery 
Manager on taking over charge of a mine to satisfy himself that all persons 
already appointed are competent to perform the duties assigned to them ; and 
if he finds them competent he should elther countersign their authorisation or 
Issue fresh ones . MW . 1 also says that if an overman is appointed it is recessary 
that he should be issued nopointment letter as well as authorisation ; the appoint 
ment letter by the company appointing him and the authorisation by the Mana 
ger in accordance with the mining rules . From the evidence of MW . 1 It also 
emerges that employer No . 1 has under them a Chief Mining Engineer, Assistant 
Chief Mining Engineer and Agent Manager and an Assistant Manager. MW . 1 
further deposed that iſ an authorisation of an overman is cancelled he cannot 
work undeground as an overman , Admittedly employer No. 1 has cancelled the 
authorisation of the affected workman and rendered him incapable of performing 
his duties as an overman underground . In this connection I should like to refer 
to the definition of " owner " as provided in Section ( L ) of the Mines Act, 1952 . 
It is as follows: 


" Owner , when used in relation to a mine, mens any person who is the 

immediate proprietor or lessce or orcupier of the mine or of any 
part thereof and in the case of a mine the business wherecf is being 
carried on by a liquidator or rerelver . such liquidator or receiver 
and in the case of a minç owned by a company, the business where 
of is being carried on by a managing agent, such managing agent; 
but does not include a person who merely rerelves a royally , rent 
or Ane from the mine, or is merely the proprietor of the mine, sub 
ject to any lease, grant or licence for the working thercof, or is 


Spc 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2225 


- 


merely the owner of the soil and not interested in the minerals of 
the mine ; but any contractor for the working of a mine or any part 
thereof shall be subject to this Act in like manner as if he were an 

owner, but not so as to exempt the owner from any llability ." 
In view of the above provision of law and also the facts emerging from the 
evidence I cannot agree that employer No. 1 is made a party to the Reference 
unnecessarily or that employer No . 1 is not responsible to any extent in render 
ing the affected workman Idle from 14th July , 1966 . The objection of employer 
No. 1 ls , therefore overruled . 

5 . The objection of employer No. 2 is that they are only Raising and Selling 
Agents and as such , the Central Government was not the appropriate Govern 
ment in relation to their establishment to make a Reference in respect of the 
dispute between them and their workmen . The objection can be disposed of 
with reference to the awards passed by the Central Government Industrial Tribu 
nal- cum -Labour Court, Jabbalpur in Reference Nos. 62 and 64 of 1964 dated 26th 
December , 1967, Exiş . M2 and M3. In both the cases employers 1 and 2 and their 
workmen represented by Shri Lalit Burman , Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha were parties . In those two cases also employer No. 2 had raised the same 
legal objection and the objection was over -ruled by holding that employer No. 2 
shall be deemed to be " owner " within the meaning of Section 2 ( 1 ) of the Mines 
Act , 1952 . Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure may not apply in terms to 
the proceedings before an Industrial Tribunal, but the principle of resjudicata 
involved in It cannot be ignored Consequently , I over - rule the objection of em 
ployer No. 2 . 

6 . As I have already pointed out, it is an admitted fact that the affected 
workman proceeded on sanctioned leave from 23rd May, 1966 , to 27th May , 1986 , 
and applied for extension of the leave owing to his sickness, that he was direct 
ed by employer No. 2 through their letter dated 8th July , 1960, Ext W . 1 to 
report for duty latest hy 18th July , 1966 , that the affected workian reported 
for duty on 14th July , 1966 , that he was not permitted to resume duty on 14th 
July , 1966 , and that through the letter dated 20th July , 1966 , Ext. W . 2 employer 
Na 2 charged the affected workman for remaining absent without permission or 
authorised leave from 28th May, 1966 , to 13th July , 1966 , and called upon him to 
show cause within 48 hours as to why disciplinary action should not be taken 
aguinst him for the above misconduct . It is also admitterl thai no disciplinary 
proceeding was started in respect of the charge- sheet, Ext . W . 2 Thus, there is 
no reasonable explanation why employer No . 2 refused employinent to the affect 
ed workman on and from 11th July , 1966 . It is conten le for employer No. 2 
that employer No . 1 had cancelled the authorisation to the aflectsd workman and 
as such , employer No 2 could not permit the affected workman to resumę duty 
on 14th July , 1986 . Firstly , no such plea was taken at any time either before 
the Assistant Labour Commissioner or in the statement before this Tribunal. 
Secondly , the material on record does not show that the authorisation of the 
affected workman was cancelled at any time before 18th July , 1966 , when Ext. 
M5 was said to have been issued . Thus, there was absolutely no justification on 
the part of employer No. 2 in refusing employment to the affected workman on 
and from 14th July , 1966 , to at least 18th July , 1966 , Ext. M5 addressed to the 
affected workman and 3 others states that their authorisation had been with 
drawn thereby because he had not accepted the offer made by employer No . 1 
tl:rough the letter dated 7th July , 1966 , Ext. M7 to give him fresh employment 
if the affected workman terminated his employment with employer No . 2 Ext. 
M7 dated 7th July , 1966 , is one more letter said to have been addressed to the 
affected workman and 15 others putting for h this name offer as in Exts M4, 
M5 and M7 are not admitted by the workmen . The affected workman , WW 1 
has stated on oath that he did not receive any letter aclclressed to 
him and 15 other supervisory staff from employer No. 1 asking them to take 
authorisation letters or that employer No . 1 had called upon him and others 
to leave the service of employer No . 2 and take it under employer No. 1. Thus, 
the onus was lying on employer No. I to nrove that Exts. M4, M5 and M7 were 
sont to the affected workman and received hy him . The solitary witness , MW 1 
examined on behalf of emplover No. 1 has conceded that no letter offering the 
affecter workman appointment under emplover No. 1 was issued by him and 
that he did not satisfy himself from the affected workman that Ext. M7 was 
received by him before he cancelled his authorisation . He further deposed that 
he sent the letter addressed to the affected workman by registered post , but he 
did not remember if he had rereived the acknowledgement from the affected 
workman in respect of the letter . His statement is that other workmen men . 
tioned in Ext, M7 had told him that the affected workman had received the 


2226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART JI 


letter and that the affected workman did not want the appointment offered . But 
no such workman is examined . Thus, there is no evidence that in spite of 
receiving Exts . M4 and M7 the affected workman did not accept the offer and on 
tbat ground employer No. 1 were justifed in cancelling his authorisation through 
the letter , Ext. M5. Further , no convincing reason is put forth why employer 
No, 1 cancelled the authorisation of the affected workman , when he was dis 
charging his duties as overman since 1963 and holding proper authorisation . In . 
Exts . M4, M5 and M7 it was stated that employer No . 1 had received a letter 
from the Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines (North Zone ) stating that appoint 
ment of the affected workman and other supervisory staff by employer No. 2 
was contrary to the statute . The letter of the Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines : 
is not produced nor any provision of any statute is referred to under which 
such appointment by employer No. 2 was prohibited . In these circumstances I 
find force in the contention of the workmen that owing to some internal dispute 
interse employers , employer No. 1 thought it At to cancel the appointments of 
the supervişory staff made by employer No. 2 and make fresh appointments of 
the staff as their own . However , I do not And any justification for cancellation 
of the authorisation of the affected workman as an overman by employer No. 1 
and deprive him of his appointment. The idleness imposed on the affected 
workman by employer No. 1 by cancelling his authorisation and by employer 
No. 2 by their refusal of permission to allow him to resume duties are illegal and 
unjustified . 

7 . I, therefore , find that the management of 1 / 12 and 2 / 12 Inclines of 
Kendwadih colliery (Post Office Kusunda. District Dhanbad ) of employer No. 1, 
Messrs East Indian Coal Company Ltd ., and employer No. 2 , Messrs G . S . Alwal 
and Company (Asansol) , Raising and Selling Agents of employer No. 1 were 
not justified in refusing employment to the affected workman . Shri Amar Singh , 
overman on and from 14th July , 1966 , and consequently , he is entitled to rein 
statment in his previous job by employer No 1. Messrs East Indian Coal Com 
pany Ltd ., and to his back wages and other emoluments from 14th July , 1966 
to 18th July , 1966 from employer No . 2 , Messrs G . S . Atwal and Company 
( Asansol) and from 19th July , 1966 to the date of his actual reinstatement 
from employer No. 1 Messrs East Indian Coal Company Ltd . Each of the 
employers to pay Rs. 100 / - as costs of the affected workman . Award is made 
accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

( Sd .) N . VINKATA RAO , Presiding Officer . 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 )) 

Dhanbad 
[No . 2 / 55 / 07 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 23rd May 1969 
$ . 0 . 2094 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (141 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No . 3 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in rctation to the Jamadoba Colliery of Messrs Tata 
Iron and Steel Company , Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 15th May , 
1969. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 50 OF 1968 
PRESENT: 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha , M .A . M . L . — Presiding Officer, 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Jamadoba colliery of Messrs Tata Iron and 
Steel Company , Jamadoba 

Vs. 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES ; 

For employers - Shri L . H . Parvatirya, L . A . 
For workmen -- Shri H . N . Singh , President, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat 


SEC. 3(ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


2227 


— 


= 


= 


- 


- - - 


INDUSTRY: Coal. 


STATE : Bihar. 


Dhanbad , dated the 6th May , 1969 

AWARD 
1 . The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Jamadoba colliery of Messrs Tata Iron 
and Steel Company , P . O . Jealgora, District Dhanbad and their workmer) by its 
order No. 2 ( 132 ) / 66 - LRII, dated the 5th of October, 1966 referrent to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule annexed thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Jamadoba colliery of Messrs Tata 

Iron and Steel Company limited in terminating the lien of Shri Madhu 
Gope, on the post of Trammer and placing his name in the Badli list , 

with effect from the 23rd May , 1966 was justified ? 
If not to what relief is the workmen entitled ? " 
2. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad registered the refer 
cnce as reference No. 143 of 1966 on its file . While it was pending there the dis 
pute was transferred by the Central Government by its order No . 8 / 25 / 17- LRII 
dated the 8th of May . 1967 to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 2 , 
Dhanbad and there it was registered as reference No. 179 of 1967. The Central 
Government by its subsequent order No. 8 / 71 / 68 -LRII dated the 13th of August , 
1968 transferred the dispute to this tribunal and here it has been renumbered as 
reference No. 50 of 1968 . 

3. The employers filed the written statement on 24th April 1967 . Their case 
is that Sri Madhu Gope was employed as a Trammer at Jamadoba colliery . He was 
granted leave for 21 days with effect from 11th April 1986 on the ground of the 
marriage of his son . A medical certificate dated 30th April 1966 was received by 
the employers on 5th May 1966 wherein it was mentioned that a period of absence 
from duty of one month with effect from 1st May 1966 is absolutely necessary for 
restoration of hus hcalth . The above medical certiflcate was neither accompanied 
by any application for the extension of leave by the workman nor supported by 
the certificate of the Gram Panchayat. Therefore , the manager , Jamadoba colliery 
informed Sri Madliu Gope by letter dated 9th / 11th May 1966 that no extension of 
the leave was granted to him and that he was being marked absent and if he failed 
to report for duties within 3 days of the receipt of the letter necessary action 
would be taken against him as per company s Standing Order. No reply was re 
ceived from Sri Madhu Gope before 25th May, 1986 nor did he join his duties as 
instructed although the above letter was received by him on 13th May 1966 . Ar 
cording to the management the medical certificate was a doubtful onę as it was 
not issued by any qualified allopathic Doctor. Shri Madhu Gope did not return 
within 8 days after the expiry of the leave originally granted to him nor offered 
explanation to the satisfaction of the Manager of his inability to return before the 
expiry of leave, the concerned workman automatically lost lien on his appoint 
ment as per condition of his service , Shri Madhu Gope was informed accordingly 
by letter dated 21st / 23rd May 1986 . After the issue of the above letter an appli 
cation dated nil nas received from the concerned workman on 25th May 1966 a ong 
with a copy of the medical certifcate . 

4 . Another medical certificate dated 31st May 1966 unaccompanied by any 
application from Sri Madhu Gope was received on 3rd June 1966 recommending 
that a period of absence from duty of 13 days from 21st May , 1966 to 12th June 
1966 was absolutely necessary for the restoration of his health . The management 
thereupon replied to the concerned workman by letter dated 7th / 9th June 1966 
tliat his name had already been removed from the Company s permanent Rolls. 

5 . Shri Madhu Gope Anally came to the colliery on 16th June 1966. The case 
of the management is that they were justified in terminating the lien of Shri Madhu 
Gope on the post of Trammer and placing him in the Bad i list and that he is not 
entitled to any reliet . 


6). The Vice President, Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat Aled the written statement 
on behalf of the workmen on 29th October 1966 . The case of the Union is that 
the concerned workman Sri Madhu Gope was granted 21 days commencing from 
11th April 1966 Sri Madhu Gope fell ill at his village home in the District of 


2228 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [Part II — 

* - = 

-- - - 
Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh . On 30th April 1966 he sent an application with a 
medical certificate praying for extension of his leave by one nionth more and that 
the said application with a medical certificate was received by the management 
on 5th May 1966 . The management replied to the concerned workman by its letter 
dated 9th / 11th May 1966 that his leave could not be granted because his applica 
tion has not been supported by a certificate from the Mukhia of the Grani 
Panchayat. On receipt of the letter of the management the concerned workman 
Sri Madhu Gope sent a certificate from the Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat and 
another application on 21st May 1966 by registered post . The management on the 
other hand by its letter dated 21st / 23rd May 1966 informed the concerned work 
man that his name has been removed from the permanent roll and he has been 
put on the Badli list . 

7. Shri Madhu Gope sent to the management another application by registered 
post on 31st May 1966 supported by the certificate of Mukhia of the Gram 
Panchayat and the medical certificate praying further extension of his leave. He 
came back to join his duty on 15th June 1966 but he was not allowed to join his 
job , According to the union the lien of Shri Madhu Gope has been terminated 
illegally , unjustifledly and arbitrarily . 

8 . The management examined on witness Sri Tarkeshwer Prasad , MW - 1 and 
15 items of documents were exhibited on behalf of the management and they are 
marked as Exts . M - 1 to M - 15 . The workman on the other hand examined one 
witness viz . Sri Madhu Gope, the concerned workman and 9 items of documents 
were exhibited on behalf of the workman and marked as Exts, W - 1 to W - 9 . 

9 . The point for consideration is whether the management was justified in 
terminating the lien of the concerned workman on the post of trammer and placing 
him in Badli list with effect from 23rd May, 1966 ? 

10 . Ext. M - 1 is the application of leave showing that Sri Majhu Gope , the con 
cerned workman was allowed 21 days leave commencing froni 11th April , 1966 to 
Ist May , 1966 . The concerned workman Sri Madho Gope sent medical certifcate 
(Ext. M - 2 ) . This medical certificate is granted by Dr. Lakshmi Kant Pandey , 
registered medical practitioner No. 4260 of Azamgarh . It is dated 30th April, 1966 
It was received by the management on 5th May 1966 . On receipt of the medical 
certificate Ext. M - 2 the management sent a letter dated 9 / 11th May 1966 to the 
concerned workman informing him that the medical certificate dill not accompany 
any application in respect to his prayer for extension of leave and it also did not 
contain any certificate from Gram Panchayat. Accordingly the management in 
formed the concerned workman that it is not possible for them to accept his re 
quest for extension of leave. The medical certificate was obtained by the concerned 
workman on 30th April 1966 iind was sent to the management. The point to be 
noted is that the medical certificate was sent by the concerned workman during 
the period of his authorised leave. According to the medical certifcate the con 
cerned workman was suffering from Measles on his whole body and that it was 
infectious disease . The management has not stated in the letter Ext M - 3 that 
the medical certificate was a spurious document. One of the ground for rejection 
was that the concerned workman did not send application along with medical 
certiAcate . But the application for extension of leave implied in the medical 
certificate itself . The other ground for rejection was that the concerned work 
man had not sent the certificate from Granı Panchayat along with medical certi 
Acate . The stand of the union is that the workman never knew that he had to 
furnish a certificate from the Gram Panchayat as well along with the 
medical certificate , because it is not a requirement mentionnd in the Standing 
Order. But when he was informed by the management that a certificate from 
Gram Panchayat is essential he procured the same and sent the certiAcate of the 
Gram Panchayat (Ext. M - 9 ) to the management Ile also sent a formal application 
along with the certificate of the Gram Panchayat and the same was received by the 
management on 25th May , 1966 . Though a certifcate from the Mukhia of the 
Gram Panchayat is not a pre -requisite material according to the Standing Order 
hut since the management required such certificate , the concerned workman sent 
the same and it was received by the management on 25th May, 1966 . 


11 . Reasonable time must be allowed to the concerned workman to procure the 
necessary certificate from the Gram Panchayat. In the present case the concerned 
workman was informed by letter dated 9 / 11th May . 1966 ( Fat M - 3 ) that such 
certificate is necessary and the workman complied with this requirement and sent 
the same to the management which has been received by the management as stated 
above on 25th May, 1966 which is a reasonable time. But prior to the receipt 
of hie Ictter the service was terininalcd by letter dated 21st / 23rd May, 1960 . It 


Sec. 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2229 


was submitted before me that the concerned workman Madhu Gope took all 
reasonable steps to inforni the management about his illness supported by the 
medical certificate ( Ext. M - 2 ) and certifcate from the Mukhiya of the Gram 
Panchayat ( Ext. M - 9 ) as desired by the management. The workman did what 
ever was required by the management for extension of his leave . It was not 
possible for him to do anything else . The management did not inform the 
concerned workman that they did not rely on the medical certificate as it was a 
spurious document. The management also did not state to the concerned workman 
that they did not rely on the certificate of the Mukhia Gram Panchayat as it was 
a spurious document. 

12 . The stand of the management is that the concerned workman did not return 
within 8 days of expiry of his leave and did not give a satisfactory explanation 
as to his inability to return in time, his lien on his appointment had come to an 
end automatically . 

13 . In this case the management had relied upon clause 9 of the Standing 
Order which runs as follows: 
" Any direct employee of the company other than a miner or loader who 

desires to obtain leave of absence shall apply in writing to the Head 
of his Department or the Manager of the colllery , Employees who 
due to illiteracy do not apply in writing must apply verbally . If 
the employee remains absent beyond the period of leave originally 
granted or subsequently extended he shall lose his lien on his appoint 

ment unless : 
( 1 ) he returns within the 8 days of the expiry of the leave except those 

who have enjoyed the privilege of 30 days so far, and 
( il ) gives an explanation to the satisfaction of the manager of his inability 

to return before the expiry of leave. In casc the employee loses 
his lien on the appointment he shall be entitled to be kept on the 

Badli list" . 
14 . According to the management It is a case of automatic termination for 
Overstaying leave without satisfactory explanation . The stand of the manage 
ment is that this tribunal has no power to sit in appeal on the merits upon the 
management s decision in not accepting the examination offered by the concerned 
workman . According to the management the Standing Order requires the satis 
faction oť the management and so the tribunal cannot at all look into explanation 
offered , at lcast for the purpose of examining its merits and substitute its own 
opinion for the opinion of the management. 

15 . The power of the management to direct its internal administration , which 
includes the enforcement of discipline of the personnel, cannot be denied ; but with 
the emergence of modern concepts of social justice , it is now recognised that an 
employee shouīd be protected against vindictive or capricious action on the part 
of the management which may affect the security of his service. In other words 
the industry should be efficiently managed and industrial peace should be main 
tained but at the same time an industrial worker must be placed in such a position 
that the security of his service may not depend upon the caprice or arbitrary will 
of the enployer. The termination of service in colourable exercisc of the power 
or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour practice or of caprice, should be 
prevented , as otherwise some of the fundamental rights and principles mentioned 
above would be violated . Arbitrary conduct or unnecessary harshness on the part 
of the enployer . judged by the normal standard of a reasonable man , may be 
congent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice . 

16 . I therefore , come to the conclusion that this tribunal is at liberty to examine 
the explanation oilered by the concerned workman for his absence and other cir 
cumstances also for the purpose to see whether the management acted with an 
honest purpose . In such cases the requirement bona fide is essential. Therefore , 
the important point for consideration is whether there was want of bona fides on 
the part of the manager or his act was arbitrary judged according to the standard 
of a reasonable man . 

17 . As already stated above the action of the inanagement in not accepting the 
medical ccrtiAcate or the certiAcate of the Gram Panchayat was arbitrary , be 
cause the management did not characterise the certificates granted by the medical 
Diactitioner and Vukhiya as spurious but still they did not take into consideration 
those two certificates for condoning his absence though they were filed before the 
mullagement within a reasonable time. 


2230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II 


18 . I therefore , hold that the action of the management in terminating the lien 
to Sri Madhu Gope , on the post of trammer and placing his name in Badlı list 
with effect from the 23rd of May was not justifed . Therefore , Shri Madhu Gope. 
the concerned workman shall be paid leare wages and allowances adinissible to 
him between 11th April, 1966 to 15th June 1966 for the period before he reported 
himselt for duty on 16th June 1966 and he is entitled to be re - instated with full 
back wages from 16th June 1966 upto the date of his re - instatement along with 
continuity of his service , 

19 . This is my award . It may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

SACHIDANAND SINHA , Presiding Officer . 

[ No. 2/ 132 /68- LRII ) 


New Delhi, the 26th May 1969 
S . O . 2095 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (NO . 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Dhansar Colliery , Post Office Dhansar , 
District Dhanbad , and their workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 16th May , 1969. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Office , 

REFERENCE No. 3 OF 1969 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 
PARTIES 
Employers in relation to the Dhansar Colliery Post office Dhansar, District 
Dhanbad 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of the employers - Shri ş . S . Mukherice. Executive Committee 

Member. Indian Colliery Owners Assoriation . 
On behalf of the workinen . - Shri Prasanta Burman , Secretary , Khan Maz 

door Congress 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 14th Muy . 1969 / 24th Vaisakha , 1891 Saka . 

AWARD 


The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists bet 
ween the employers in relation to the Dhansar Colliery , Post Once Dhansar , DIN 
trict Dhanbad and their workmen by its order No . 2 / 144 / 65 - LRII dated 3rd March , 
1966 referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Sec 
tion 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication of the dispute in 
respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule 15 
extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of the Dhansar Colliery in transfer 

ring the services of the following sixteen miners from No. 4 Incline 
to No 2 Plt with cffect from the 7th June 1985 was with a view to 
victimise the workmen , and if so , to what relief are the workmeir 

entitled ? 
1 . Shri Shankar Singh , 
2 . Shri Sitan Bhulan , 
3 . Shri Malloo Bhuian . 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 189 ) 


2231 


- 


- - 


- 


- = = 
4 . Shri Ram Sahay Bhulan . 
5 . Shri Doman Bhuian . 
6 . Shri Balo Bhuian . 
7 . Shri Sukar Bhuian . 
8 . Shri Moti Bhuian . 
9 . Shri Paran Bhulan 
10 . Shri Mohan Bhuian . 
11, Shri Rupan Bhuian , 
12 . Shri Ganauri Bhuiun . 
13 . Shri Butoo Chamar . 
14 , Shri Abdul Miun . 
15 . Shri Gafur Mian . 

16 . Shri Lakhan Bhuian ," 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the re 
Terence as No . 42 oľ 1986 on its file . Employers as well as workmen filed their 
statement of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government In 
dustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the procreding was transferred to this Tribunal by 
the Central Government by its order No . 8 / 25 / 67-LRII, dated 8th May , 1967. 
Consequently . the reference was renumbered on the Ale of this Tribunal as Re 
Terence No. 119 of 1967. Again while it was pending before this Tribunal, the 
proceeding was transferred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) 
by the Central Government by its Order No. 8 / 71 /68 -LRII, dated 13th August , 1968 . 
Subsequently , the reference was transferred back to this Tribunal, by the Central 
Government by its order No, 2 / 144 / 65 -LRII , ( ated 18th January 1969. Hence , the 
Teference is renuinhered on the Ale of this Tribunal as Reference No. 3 of 1969. 
Another Reference No. 118 of 1967 in respect of the same employers and workmen 
iepresented respectively also by Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Executive Committee Mem 
her of Indian Colliery Owners Association and Shii Prasanta Burman . Secretary. 
Khan Mazdoor rongress was pending on the Ille of this Tribunal. As in both the 
references the chispute was of similar , at the request of parties on 6th August 1968 
as per order passed in Reference No . 118 of 1967 both the referenres were taken 
up together and evidence was recorded in Kelerence No. 118 of 1967 to be read as 
evidence in this reference also . By consent of the worknie !) , Exts . M 1 ( a ) to M1( c ) 
for the employers and on admission loy the employers Ext. W1 for the workmen 
were marked . On behalf of the workmen 3 witnsves were examined and Exts . 
W2 to W9 were marked . The employers examined a witness and marked Exts . M2 
to M6. 

3 . It is not in dispute that all the 10 workmen referred to in the Reference 
(hereinafter reierred to as the affected workmen ) were pick miners and they were 
trarsferred from No. 4 Incline to No . 2 Pit in Dhangar Colliery by the employers 
with effect from 7th June , 1965 . The case of the workmen is that as newly re 
cruited persons were unable to work in Pit No. 2 owing to difficult working con 
ditions there , the employers conspired with the leader of their pocket union and 
transferred 54 miners, inclusive of the 16 affected workmen who were not mem 
bers of the pocket union , from No 4 Incline to No 2 Pit and that as such the 
transfer was with a view to victimise the affected workmen for not being members 
of the pocket union of the employers and for being conscious of their rights and 
union minded . The employers Aled their statement denying knowledge on their 
part if the affected workmen or any of them was a member of the Khan Maz 
door Congress . They denied that the transfer of the affected workmen from No 4 
Incline to No. 2 Pit was with a vicu - to victimise them . They pointed out that 
the working faces in No. 4 Incline underground were reduced considerably and 
that the management had no other alternative but to transfer some of the miners 
from No. 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit . It is further stated that before the transfer of 
the workmen , the matter was discussed with the Colllery Mazdoor Sangh , the 
recognised union and an agreement dated 1st June 1965 was entered into between 
this union and the management for the transfer of the miners from No . 4 Incline 
to No. 2 Pit and that the transfer was without affecting the wages and other con 
ditions of service of the workmen in any manner. 


4 . The affected workmen being pick miners in the Dhansar Colliery of the 
employers and their having been transferred from No . 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit being 
admitted facts , the only point calling for consideration is whether the transter was 
with a view to victimise the affected workmen . In terms of the reference the onus 
was lying on the workmen to prove by clinching evidence that the transfer of the 
Effected workmen was with a view to victimise them . WW 2 is the affected 
workman , his name being at Si, No. 2 in the schedule. His evidence is that he 
aprl other affected workmen were transferred from No. 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit 
becausc they had become members of the Khan Mazdoor Congress Union and that 


2232 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : VAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II - . 


MUS 


previously they were members of the union of Shri Chatuianand Jha . WW I hag 
clarified that the union represented by Shri Chaturanand Jha was the Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh . Therefore , the allegation is that the aifected workmen , who were 
members of the Colfiery Mazdoor Sangh become members of the Khan Mazdoor 
Congress and as such . the employers have victimised then hr transferring them 
from No. 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit and that the pocket union of the employers reterred 
to in their statement was the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh The employers had denied 
knowledge that the affected workmen or any one of then hiel become members 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress and also denied that on account of that they were 
transferred from No, 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit, WW2 has admitted that he did not 
remember the date , month or the year when he became a member of the Khan 
Mazdoor Congress He says that he had submitted a written letter to the Manager 
informing him or his (WW . 2 ) becoming a member of the Khan Mazdoor Congress 
and that the letter was drafted under his instructions by Shri Chotu Bhuian , also 
a pick miner . Neither a copy of the said letter is produced nor is Shri Chotu 
Bhulan examined . The witness says that a rupy of the letter may be at his 
house . WW 3 is Shri Prasanta Burman the Secretary of the Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress. His evidence does not support the case of the workmen that the affected 
workmen had becomemembers of the Khan Mazdoor Congress shortly before their 
transfer . It is in the evidence of WW 1 and WW 2 that apart from the 33 miners 
involved in References Nos . 118 and 119 of 1967, 21 miners who were transferred 
to Pit No. 2 were members of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . The case of the 17 
workmen Involved in Reference No. 118 of 1967 was that they became members of 
Congress Mazdoor Sangh and as such , the employers transferred them from No . 4 
Incline to No. 2 Pit . From this evidence it follows that not only miners who were 
members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh , but the members of the Khan Mazdoor 
Congress and the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , which is said to be the pocket union 
of the employers , were also transferred from No. 4 Incline to No . 2 Pit along with 
the affected workmen . This evidence itself alşapproves the allegation made in 
the statement of the workmen that tlie employers transferred only the members 
of the Khan Mazdoor Congress . On this evidence I do not find any substance that 
the transfer of the affected workmen was with a view to victimise them for their 
becoming members of the Khan Mazdoor Congress . 

5 . I, therefore , hold that the action of the management of the Dhansar Colliery 
in transferring the services of the 16 atlected workmen named in the reference 
froni No . 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit with effect from 7th June , 1965 was not to victimise 
the workmen , and as such , none of them is entitled to any relief . The award is 
made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1047 

(Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer 
[No. 2 / 144 / 65 -LRII } 


ORDERS 

Neu* Delhi, the 28th May 1969 
S . O . 2096 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Lower 
Kenda Colllery of Messrs Khas Kenda Colliery Private Limited , Post Omce 
Kajoragram , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( it ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby icfers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen . 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of 
the said Act 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Lower Kenda Colliery of Messrs the Khas 

Kenda Collicry Private Limited , was justified in dismissing Shri 
Aklu Mahato , Pick Miner with effect from the 25th April, 1968 ? 
If not , to what rellef he is entitled ? 

(No. 8 / 133 / 88-LRII .) 


SEC . 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 

2233 
- - - - = - - = = 

- 
S . O . 2097 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 
Kharkharee Collicry of Messrs Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , Post Ofice 
Kharkharee, District Dhanbad and their workmien in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule heretu annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desliable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Cen 
tral Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee Colliery of Messrs 

Bharat Mining Corporation Limited , Post Office Kharkharee , Dis 
trict Dhanbad in terminating the services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh 
Electrician , with ellect from the 1st October , 1968 was justified ? If 
not . to what relieť is the workman concerned entitled ? 


No. 2 / 54 / 09 LRII. ] 


P . C . MISRA . Under Secy . 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
( Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1969 


S . O . 2098. - Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire the Evaclier Properties specified in the schedule hereto 
annexed in the States of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh , Bihar and Orissa for a public 
purpose being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displac 
ed persons including payment of compensation to such persons. 


Now , therefore , in exercisc of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) it is 
notified that the Central Governnient has decided to acquire and hereby acquires 
the evacuec properties specified in the schedule hcreto annexed . 


A - SCHEDULE 
All properties in the States of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh , Bihar and Orissa , 
which have been allotted to the share of the Custodian in Partition or have been 
vested in the Custodian under section 11 of the Evacuce Interest (Separation ) 
Act , 1951, as v lesuit of adjudication by the Competent OMçer under the provi 
sions of the said Act upto 31 - t December , 1968 and in respect of which no 
appcals have been filed , and if Alcd , have been rejected by the Appellate Officer . 

[No. 22 ( 14 ),Comp.& Prop :61.1 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 


S . O , 2099 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( i ) of 
Section 3 of thi Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints for the Union Terri 
tory of Himachal Pradesh , Shri P C . Soti, Assistant Settlement Onicer in the 
office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner . Jullựndur, as Managing Officer 
for the purposes of performing the functions assigned to such officers by or 
under the said Act with immediate effect . 

[ No 8 /235 / ARG / 62.J 


2234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


[PART 11 


S . O . 2100 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section (i ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) the Cen 
tral Government hereby appoints Shri Pritam Singh , Assistant Settlement Officer 
in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Jullundur as Assistant 
Custodian for the States of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of 
Himachal Pradesh for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on such 
oflcers by or under the said Act, with immediate effect. 


[No. 8 / 253 / ARG / 62. ] 

A . G . VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & Ec - Niclo Under Secy. 


( Department of Rehabilitation ) 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th May 1969 


S . O . 2101, - In pursuance of Rule 11 - D ( D ) ( A ) of the Evacuee Interest ( Scpa 
ration ) Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby makes the following order 
to amend the order published with the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Works, Housing and Rehabilitation , (Department of Re 
habilitation ) No. S 0 . 531, dated 6th February , 1964 , namely :- - 


In the said order, 
For the words and figures " 31st March , 1969," the words and figures " 30th 

September , 1969" shall be substituted , 


[No. F . 5 ( 24 ) / 59 /Prop. II /Comp. & Prop .1 

GULAB L . AJWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner (Compensation ) . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 

AND COOPERATION 


(Department of Food ) 

CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1969 


S . O . 2102 . In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Food , Agriculture , Community Development and Co - operation (Department of 
Food ) No. S . O . 478, dated the 30th January , 1969, published in the Gazette of 
India , Part II Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ), dated the 8th February , 1969, at page 
303, line 7 omit Second . 


[No. F . 26 - 7 /87- SG .II . ] 


DEVAKI NANDAN GOYAL , Under Secy . 


SEC . 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2235 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd May 1969 
S . O . 210 .3 - In excrcise of the powers conferred by section 74 read with sec 
tion 43 cľ the Indian Post Omce Act, 1898 (8 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 
namely : — 

1 . These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Seventh Amendment) 
Rules , 1969 . 

2. In rule 126 of the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, before the explanation , the 
following proviso shall be added , namely : 

" Provided that the amount of a money order other than a V . P . money order 
shall be repaid to the remitter in case the payee is dead. 

Provided further that where the remitter or, in case of a V . P . money order the 
payee, is dead the amount of the money order or money orders upto one hundred 
rupees shall be paid to the claimant on his exccuting a personal indemnity , bond 
and for amounts exceeding one hundred rupecs an indemnity bond with one surety 
shall be obtained froni the claimant. 

[No. 41 / 3 / 88 - CI ] 
M . K . DEENA DAYALAN , 

Director (Postal Technical ). 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF HEALTĮI, FAMILY PLANNING , W . H , AND U . D . 

( Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 14th Man 1969 
S . O , 2104 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), the Central Govern 
ment, after consultation with the Medical Council of India , hereby directs that 
the medical qualification , ARTSEXAMEN granted by the University of Utrecht, 
Netherlands, shall be a recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of that 
Act. 

[No, F . 19 - 52 / 88 -MPT.] 
B . S . SINGII, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Health ) 
New Delhi, the 16th May 1969 


S . O . 2105, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 5 ) of section 
13 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment, after consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby makes the following 
amendment in Part 1 of the Third Schedule to the said Act, namely : 

In the sald Part I of the Third Schedule , after the entry relating to the " East 
Punjab State Medical Faculty , L , Ş . M . F . ( East Punjab ) ” the following entry shall 
be inserted, namely : 
« Gyvernm :nt of Orissa 

Diploma in Molern Medicine D . M S. M .(Orissa )" 
and Surgery 

[No. F . 18 - 12 /88 -MPT.] 


S . O . 2106 . - Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause ( b ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , the follow 
ing persons have been elected by the University specified against each of them 


2236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II — 


unur LLI. - IVU 


to be members of the Medical Council of India with 
election noted against each , namely : 


effect from the date of 


- - 


Name of Member 


University 


Date of election 


- 


-- - 


- 


I. 


21. 4 .1969 . 


Dr. Pritam Das, M . S ., F . R . C . S ., University of Allahabad 

F . A . C . S . Principal, Motilal Nehru 
Medical College , Allahabad 


Berhampur University 


2 . Prof. Sukumar Das, Principal, 

Medical College , Berhampur, 


18 - 3- 1969. 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the said Act , the Central Government hereby directs that Dr. Pritam Das , 
Principal, Motilal Nehru Medical College , Allahabad , shall continue to be a 
member of the Medical Council of India and makes the following further amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Health No. F . 5 - 13159 -MI, dated the 9th January, 1960, namely : 


In the said notification , under the heading " Elected under clause (b ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 " , after serial No. 38 and the entry relating thereto , the 
following serial number and entry shall be inserted , namely : 


39 . Professor Sukumar Das, Principal, Medical College, Berhampur 

(No. F . 4 - 29 / 68 -MPT ( D ) .) 


S . O . 2107. - In pursuance of clause ( d ) of rule 2 of he Indian Medical Council 
Rules , 1957, the Central Government hereby appoints Dr, S . C . P . Sinha , Registrar . 
Bihar Council of Medical Registration and Deputy Director or Health Services , 
Bihar , as Returning Officer for the conduct of election of a meinber to the Medi 
cal Council of India under clause ( c ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) in the State of Bihar. 

[No. F . 4 -29 / 68 -MPT ( E ). } 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 16th May 1969 


S . O . 2108. - Whereas by the notification of he Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Ilealth and Family Planning No . 18 - 13 / 60 -MPT dated the 3rd June, 
1966 the Central Government has directed that the Medical qualification Doctor 
of Medicine granted by the Women s Medical College of Pennsylvania , Philadel 
phia , Pennsylvania , U . S . A . shall be recognised medical qualification for the pur 
poses of the Indian Medical Council Act . 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 


And whereas Dr. Şister Mary Liqueri Cantiin , who possesses the said quali 
fication is for the time being attached to the Mercy Hospital, Janisheclpur for the 
purposes of teaching , research or charitable work ; 


Now , therefore, in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 14 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby specifies 

(1 ) a further period of two years with effect from the 8th December, 1968 , 


(II) the period during which Dr, Sister Mary Liquert Cantlin is attached to 

the said Mercy Hospital, Jamshedpur, 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited , 


[No. F. 19-11 / 69-MPT.] 

K . DEO , Under Secy . 


SEÇ, 3(18) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2237 


- 


- u 


- 


- 


(Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 21st May 1969 
S . O . 2109, — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make, after con . 
sultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board . in exercise of the powera con 
ferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ), is 
published , as required by the said sections for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 31st August . 1969 . 

2. Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government : 

Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Ainendment) Rules , 1969. 

2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
rules ) for the existing rules 113 to 118 the following shall be substituted , namely : - - 

" 113. Tests for sterility - - The tests for sterility shall be as prescribed in the 
following Rules . 

114 . The tests laid down in the edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia for the 
time being in force for the presence of living aerobic or anaerobic bacteria and 
fungi and such other tests prescribed in Schedule E . If any , shall be carried out by 
the manufacturer in respect of the following items: 

( a ) sera and solutions of seruin proteins intender for Injection ; 
(h ) bacterial vaccines to which Part I ( A ) of Schedule F applies ; 
(c ) other vaccines intended for parenteral administration ; 
( d ) vaccines, untigens and mixtures of toxins or antigens with serum intend 

ed to be used for immunising , treatment or for diagnosis by inocula 

tion of the patient; 
( e ) solutions and suspensions of insulin ; 
(f) dry preparations of drugs intended for parenteral use ; 
(g ) preparations of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body intended for use 

of injection ; 
( h ) preparations from cultures of pathogenic organisms in a form to be ad 

ministered orally , which are required to be sterile ; 
(1) ophthalmic solutions; 
(j ) sterilised surgical catguts and sutures ; and 
(k ) any other preparations in a form to be administerecl parenterally or 

required to be supplied in a sterile condition . 
Provided that, 
( 1 ) in case of preparations intended for parenteral use or which are required 

to be supplied in a sterile condition where the tests prescrihę ? in the 
edition of the Indian Pharmacopoela for the time being in force can . 
not be applied as such , the tests applied may be with such modifica 

tions as the Licensing Authority may consisler neessary , and 
( L ) I a manufacturer satisfies the Licelsmg Authority that he has already 

in use tests for the presence of living aerobic and anaerobic bacteria 
or fungi in any of the above named substances and that these tests as 
applied by him will detect the presence of such micro -organisers in 
the subşlance as ready for issue with a certainty at least equal to that 
atforded by the application of the test: prescribed by the part, the 
Licensing Authority may approve the use of such tests in the place of 
the prescribed tests , but in such a case the authority may at any time 
withdraw such approval and require the manufacturer to carry out 

the prescribed tests . 
115 . Application of tests for sterility 

The tests as prescribed in the edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia for the time 
being in force shall be applied : - 
( a ) to samples taken from the final bulk material cf each batch of the 

product before Alling in Anal containers except preparations which 


2238 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ PART II — 


after being sealed in the containers are to be sterilized by heat in a 

manner satisfactory to the Licensing Authority ; and 
(b ) to samples of finished containers taken at random from each batch after 

Alling and sealing but in such a manner that their selection is spread 
throughout the filling period . In case of preparations sterilised by 
heat, samples should be drawn from each steriliser load and should be 
representative of all layers of the load , 


116 . The samples required to be taken under the last preceding rule shall be 
itaken in the following proportion : 


( a ) For bulk material:- - 
( 1) Where the bulk material in solid form belonging to one batch is distri 

buted in a number of containers the total number of containers taken 
for test shall be 0 . 4 N where N is the total number of containers in 
a batch subject to a minimum of three containers. Provided that in 
case of sera , vaccines, antigens and mixtures of toxins or antigens and 
similar related products , each bulk container shall be tested for 

sterility ; and 
(ii) the quantity taken for test from the container shall be not less than 0 . 1 

percent of the total volume if the volume is 10 litres or more but shall 
in no case be less than the quantity prescribed for carrying out the 
sterility test in the edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia for the time 
being in force. 


In the case of solid substances, the quantity taken shall be as prescribed in the 
edition of the Indian Pharmacopoeia for the time being in force . 

( b ) For Final containers . — The number of containers taken for test from every 
batch shall be not less than 2 per cent of the total number of Anal containers in 
the batch or 20 containers , whichever is less , taken at randon from the batch and 
if so required by the Licensing Authority an additional two containers from each 
thousand or part of a thousand after the first . The number of containers in no 
case shall be less than two from any batch . 


117 . 1. Sterility tests shall be conducted by rersonnel having had expert train 

ing in microbiology and experience in rigid aspetic techiques which in 

the opinion of the Licensing Authority is adequate . 
2 . The tests shall be carried out in a place suitably designed for the pur 

pose and environmental control tests including plate counts shall be 

performed at regular intervals . 
3 . Sterility tests shall not be conducted under direct exposure to ultra 

violet light or in areas under Aerosol treatment. 
4 . Each batch of the media used shall be tested for its sterility and growth 

promoting qualities . 


118 . Detalled records of sterility tests shall be maintained which would include 
the following particulars ; — 

( a ) Serial Number . 
(b ) Names of the Media used . 
(c) Name of the product, its Batch Number and Batch size 
( d ) Whether bulk or Anal container. 
( e ) Number of samples used for sterility test. 
( f) Name of antiseptic and its concentration , 
(8 ) The volume of the inoculum . 
(h ) The volume of the culture mediuin . 
(1) The date of inoculation . 
(1 ) The observation of each inoculated tube during and at the end of the 

inoculation period . 
(k ) The observation of the positive and negative control. 
3. The existing Rule 119 of the said rules , shall be deleted. 


Şec. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYASTHA 10 , 1891 


2232 


4 . In Schedule F of the said rules under ‘Part X - Surgical Ligature and Surgi 
cal Suture , for the words 
" The sterility tests shall be ( arrled out either ( 1 ) hy the method . . . . 

in place of the tests so prescribed " occurring after sub -pura (c ) of 

para 4 . the following para shall be substituted , nar . ely : 
" The tests for sterility as prescribed under the rules shall be performed with 

the inodification that the surgical ligature ( suture ) which claims to be 
sterile shall be incubated for a period of fourteen days for each test." 

( NO. F . 1- 8 / 69 -D . ) 


S . O . 2110 , — The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make, after con 
sultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ), is 
published , as required by the said sections for the information of all persons likely 
to be affected thereby and notice is hereby glven that the said draft will be taken 
into consideration on or after the 31st August, 1969. 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any peryon with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government : 


Draſt Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics ( Amendment) Rules, 1989 . 

2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 (hereinafter referred to as the said 
rules ) after rule 65, the following new rule 65 - A shall be inserteri, namely : 

" 65 - A . Additional information to be furnished by an applicant for licence or a 
licensee to the Licensing Authority : 

The applicant for the grant of a licence or any person granted a licence under 
this Part shall, on demand , furnish to the licensing authority , before the grant of 
the licence or during the period the licence is in force, as the case 11 :2y he docu 
mentary evidence in respect of the ownership or Occupation on rental or other 
basis of the premises, specified in the application for licence or in the licence 
granted , constitution of the Arm , and / or any other relevant inatter which nav he 
required for the purpose of verifying the correctness of the statements made by 
the applicant or the licensee , while applying for or after obtaining the licence , as 
the case may be. " 


3 . After rule 67 -G of the said rules , the following new rule 67- H shall be in 
serted , namely : 

" 87- H . Additional information to be furnized by an applicant for liccup or a 
licensee to the Licensing Authority : - 

The applicant for the grant of a licence or any person granted a licence uncler 
this Part shall, on demand , furnish to the Licensing Authority , before the grant of 
the licence or during the period the licence is in force , as the case may he docu 
mentary evidence in respect of the ownership or occupation on rental or other basis 
of the premises, specified in the application for licence or in the licence granted . 
constitution of the firm , and / or any other relevant matter , which may be required 
for the purpose or verifying the correctness of the statements inacle by the appli 
cant or the licensee , while applying for or after obtaining the licence, as the case 
may be 


4 . The existing rule 67- H of the said rules, shall be renumbered as 67 -I. 

5 . After rule 84 , of the said rules , the following new rules shall be inserted , 
namely : 

" 84- A . Additional information to be furnished by an applicant for licence or a 
licensee to the Licensing Authority : - - 


The application for the grant of a licence or any person granted a licence under 
this Part shall, on demand , furnish to the Licensing Authority , before the grant of 
the licence or during the period tho licence is in force, as the case may le, do ( 41 
mentary evidence in tespect of the ownership or occupation on rental or other basis 
of the premises, specifed in the application for licence or in the licence granted . 
constitution of the Arm , andior any other relevant matter, which may be required 


2240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II — 


for the purpose or verifying the correctness of the statements inade by the appli 
cant or the licensee , while applying for or after obtaining the licence, as the case 
may be." 

6 . After rule 85 - H of the said rules, the following new rule 85 - I shall be in 
serted , namely : 

" 85 - I. Additional information to be furnished by an applicant for licence or a 
licensee to the Licensing Authority : - - 

The applicant for the grant of a licence or any other person granted a licence 
under this Part shall, on demand , furnish to the Licensing Authority , before the 
grant of the licence or during the period the licence is in force , as the case may be , 
documentary evidence in respect of the ownership or occupation in rental or other 
basis of the premises, specified in the application for licence or in the licence grant 
ed , constitution of the firm , and / or any other relevantmatter , which may be required 
for the purpose or verifying the correctness of the statements made by the appli 
cant or the Licensee , while applying for or after obtaining the licence, as the case 
may be." 

7 . The existing rule 85 - I of the said rules shall be renumbered as 85J of the 
said rules, the following new rulę 142A shall be inserted , namely : 

" 142 -A . Additional information to be furnished by an applicant for licence or a 
licensee to the Licensing Authority : 

The applicant for the grant of a licence or any person granted a licence under 
this Part shall, on demand , furnish to the Licensing Authority , before the grant of 
the licence or during the period the licence is in force , as the case may be, docu 
mentary evidence in respect of the ownership or occupation on rental or other basis 
of the premises , specified in the application for licence or in the licence granted , 
constitution of the Arm , and / or any other relevant matter , which may be required 
for the purpose or verifying the correctness of the statements made by the appli 
cant or the licensee, while applying for or after obtaining the licence , as the case 
may be. " 


INo. F . 1- 15 /68 -D .] 


S . O . 2111 .-- The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Rules , 1945, which the Central Government proposes to make, after 
consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the powers 
conterred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 ( 23 df 1940 ) , 
is published , as required by the said sections for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will 
he taken into consideration on or after the 20th August, 1989 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
Tespect to the said draft before the date so speciflect will be considered by the 
Central Government: 


Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Consmetics (Amendment) Rules , 
1969. 

In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 , 
In Schedule F after Part XII- A the following new Parts shall be inserted , 

namely : 


PART XII - B — Test for patent or proprietory medicines containing anti 

biotics meant for parenteral else. 


In case standard for any antibiotic for parenteral use are laid down in the 
current edition of the Indian Phurmacopoeia for the time being inforce and this 
antibiotic is an ingredient in a patent or proprietory medicine for parenteral use , 
such a patent or proprietory medicine shall comply with the test for pyrogens, 
the test for undue toxicity and the test for histamine like substances wherever 
such tests have been prescribed in the current edition of the Indian Phar 
macopoeia for the time being inforce in respect of the antibiotics so present. 


SEC . 3( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2241 


PART XII - C - Tests for disintegration to be complied with by patent or 

proprietory medicines in the form of tablets except vaginal tablets 

and tablets which are to be sucked or chewed . 
Patent or proprietory medicines in the form of tablets except vaginal tablets 
and tablets which are to be sucked or chewed shall comply with the test for 
disintegration for tablets prescribed in the current edition of the Indian Phar 
macopoeia for the time being in force ." 

[No. F .1 -42 / 68 - D .] 
8 , 0 . 2112 , - - The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, which the Central Government proposes to make, 
after consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 
(23 of 1940 ) , is published , as required by the said sections for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 20th August , 1969 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be recelved from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will bc considered by the 
Central Government: - - 


Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics ( Amendment ) Rules , 
1969. 

2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules , 1945 in rule 96 in sub -rule ( 1) , after 
clause ( V ) the following shall be inserted :- - 

" Esplanation . The following explanation gives the meaning of the term 
Batch in relation to different categories of drugs : - - 

1. In case of drugs manufactured by a continuous process like manufacture of 
Magnesium sulphate , Pharmaceutical Chemicals etc ., the production in one shift 
may be considered as one Batch . 

2. In case of powders , liquid orals, ointments , etc . one Batch Number should 
be assigned to all the containers Alled from one homogenous bulk . 

3 . In case of tablets , capsules, lozenges , troches , etc one Batch Number 
should be assigned to the products manufactured from one homogenous mix , 

4 In case of parenteral preparations sterilized by steam under pressure one 
Batch Number should be assigned to all containers Alled from the homogenous 
solution and sterilized in one sterilizer load . 

5 . In case of containers , filled from one homogenous solution and sterilized 
in more than one sterilizer load , a Batch Number should be assigned to the 
homogenous bulk solution . The containers sterilized in each sterilizer load should 
be given the Batch Number given to the homogenous solution suffixed by other 
distinctive Number , referring to the particular sterilizer load, 

In performing the sterility tests , a sample should be drawn from each sterilizer 
load . For the purposes of chemical and other tests , representative samples 
1rom all containers filled from the homogenous bulk solution should be taken ) . 

6 . In case of parenteral products filled aseptically a Batch Number should 
be assigned to all containers filled from one homogenous mix during one filled 
operation , the filling operation being defined as the period not more than a day 
or a shift and during which no change in the Alling assembly is made. 

7 . In case of homogenous mix , aseptically Alled in a number of filling opera 
lions, a Batch Number should be assigned to the homogenous 11 and the con 
tallers filled in Individual Alling operations should bear the Batch Number 
assigned to the homogenous bulk , suffixed with other distinctive Number 
referring to the particular filling operation . 

8 . In case of medicinal gases the production of a gas in one week from one 
tank load should be considererl as a Batch provided the tank was eniptied every 
week . 

In case , however, the manufacture is a continuous process in which the tank 
is not unloaded after a week , a day s productlon should be considered as con 
stituting a Batch ." 

[ NO. F .1 - 1 / 68 - D . ] 


2242 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


(PART II 


3 . 0 . 2013 . The following draft of certain rules further to omend the Drugs and Cosmetics 
Rules , 1945 which the Central Goverminent proposes to make , after consultation with the Drugs 
Technical Advisory Board , in cxercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Act , 1940 (23 of 1940 ) is published , as required by the sections for the informa 
tion of all persons likely to be allected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said draft will 
be taken into consideration on or after the zotli August , 1969 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with respect to 
the said draft before clic date so specified will be considered by the Central Government : 

Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Rules , 1969 . 

2 . In the Second Schedule to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 23 of 1940 ) for the 
existing entry 5 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
s. Other drugs. 
(a ) Drugs ir cluded in the Indian Pharma- Standards of identity , purity and strength specified 
copocia . 

in the edition of the Indian Phurmucopoeia for 
the time being in force and such other standards 

as may be prescribed . 
In case the standards for identity , purity and 

3trength for drugs are not specificd in the 
ed tion of the Irdian Pharmacopoeia immedia 
tely preceding , the standards for identity , 
purity and strength shall be thosc occi riig in 
such immediately preceding edition of the 
India Pharmacopoeia ar .d such other standards 

may be prescribed . 
( 6 ) Drug : not in , luded in the Indian Standards of identity , purty and strength 

Pharmacopoeia but which are specified for the drugs in the edition of tlic 
included in any official pharina- such official pharmacopoeia for the time being 
copocia ofany country . 

in force and such other standards as may be 

prescribed . 
In casc the standards for idert.ty , pur. ty and 

strength for drugs are not specified in the 
edition of such official pharmacopoeia for the 
time being in force , but arc spcc: ficd in the 
edition immediately preceding , the standuide 
for identity , purity and strengih stall te those 
occurring in such immediately preceding cdi 
tion of such oficial pharmacopoeia and such 
other standards as may be prescribed . 

[No. F . 1 - 4 /67- D .) 
L . K , MURTHY , Under Secy . 


(Deptt. of W . H , and U . D .) . 

New Delhi, the 15th May 1969 
S . O . 2114 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 , 
clause (b ) of sul - rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification Control and Appeal) Rules , 1965 , the President 
hereby makes the tollowing further amendments in the notifications of the Gov 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Health No. SRO 619 dated the 28th February , 
1957 read with the Ministry of Health , Notification No. F . 16 - 96 / 82 -LSG dated 
the 5th January , 1963, namely : 
In part I. II and III of the Schedule to the said notification for the word 

Director wherever It occury , the words Chiet Planner shall be 

substituted. 
Thig notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 6th day of 
December , 1966 , 

(No. 16019 (3 ) / 67 -UD .) 
B . M . LAL , Under Sccy. 


2243 


Suc. 3( i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1965 /JYAtSTHA 10, 1891 
- -- - - - -- -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 16th May 1969 


S . 0 . 2115. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act , 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri Gangadhar Gadgil, after consultation with the Central Board of 
Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay 
with immediate effect. 


[ No. 11 / 2 / 68- F ( C) .] 
H . B. KANSAL , Under Secy . 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 16 मई 1969 
एस० प्रो० 2116. - - चलचिन अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) और 
चलचित्र ( सेन्सर ) नियमावली , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम 2 के साथ पठित नियम के उप 
नियम ( 3) द्वारा दिए गए अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केद्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर 
बोर्ड से परामर्श करके एतद्द्वारा श्री गंगाधर गाडगिल को अभी से उक्त बोर्ड के बम्बई सलाहकार 
मण्डल का सवस्य नियुक्त किया है । 


[ संख्या फाईल 11/ 2, 68 - एफ .सी .] 

हरि बाबू कंसल , अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 22nd May 1969 


S . 0 . 2117. --In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 10 of the Cinemato 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government is pleased to appoint 
Shri P. N. Kamath Superintendent, to offlciate AB Secretary to the Chairman , 
Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay with effect from the after - noon of 3rd 
May, 1980 to 26th May 1969 fore- noon vice Shri R. S . Saigal proceeded on leave. 


[ No . 2 / 47 / 89 - FC. ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi . the 20th May 1969 
S . O . 2018 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactment 
Specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Cential Governinent aller considering 
the recommendations of the Tilm Advisory Board , Bonībay herehy approves the film 
specified in column 2 of the Second Scliedule annexed hereto in all its language version tohe 
the description specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( I ) Sub - Section ( 4) of the Section I2 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 ( Central 

Act XXXVII of 1952 ). 
(2 ) Sub -Section (3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cineinas (Regulation ) Act , 1953 

(Bombay Acı XI of 1953). 


224A TIE GAZETTE OFINDIA : MAY 31, 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [ PART II --- 
- -- - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

THY SECOND SLIBDULL 


S . 


Title of the Film 


Length 
35mni 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of thic 
Producci 


Whictuer a Scientific 

lilni or a filızı inien 
ded for educational 
purposes or a film 
ucaling will news 
and curfcilL cvents 
or u docliiicitary 
film 


I 


2 


€108 . 00M 


I Rajlans Muza 

Nijola 
( Marathi) 


Director of Publicity Govt. of Documentary film 
Malarashtra , Film Centre , 68 , (For ielcasc in 
Tardeo Roud , Bombay- 34 

Maliaras itial C11 
cuit only . 


[ No. 11 . 24/ 1/ 69 - FP App. 1355.] 
BANU RAM AGGRAWAL , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 22 मई, 1969 
का० प्रा० 2119 ---- चलचित्र ( सैन्सर ) नियामवली , 1958 के नियम 10 के दाग 
दिये गगे अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने अधीक्षक श्री पी० एन० कामथ को , 3 
मई , 1969 के अपरान्ह से 26 मई , 1969 के पुर्वान्ह तक , श्री आर० एम० सेहगल के स्थान पर जो 
छठी पर गये हैं , अध्यक्ष, केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड , बम्बई का सचिव स्थानापन्न रूप मे नियक्त क्रिया 


[ संख्या 2/ 47/ 69- एफ० ( सी ).] 


प्रादश 


नई दिल्ली , 2 ) मई 1969 
का० प्रा० 2120 : - -- इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक अधिनियम के 
उपबन्ध के अन्तर्गत जारी किये गये निदेशों के अनुसार , केन्द्रीय सरकार फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड , बम्बई 
फी सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद , एतदद्वारा इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अनसूची में कालम 2 में 
दी गई फिल्म को उसके सभी भाषाग्रो के रूपान्तर सहित , जिसका विवरण उस के सामने उक्त द्वितीय 
अनुसूची के कालम 6 में दिया हुआ है स्वीकृत करती है :- - 

प्रथम अनुसूची 
( 1 ) चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 37 वां केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 

12 की उपधारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा 16 । 
( 2 ) बम्बई गिनेमा ( विनियम ) अधिनियम , 195 3 ( 1953 का 11 वां बम्बई अधि 

नियम ) की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 3 ) तथा धारा 9 । 


SEC . 3/ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


निमय अनुसूची 


कम फिल्म का नाम लम्बाई 35 श्रावेदक का नाम निर्माता का नाम क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म 
संख्या मि० मी० 

है या शिक्षा सम्बन्धी 
फिल्म है या गमाचार 

और गामभिक पट 
मानों की फिल्म है 
या डायमेन्ट्री फिल्म 


-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


-- - - 


1 राजहंस मजा 508. () 0 प्रचार निदेशक , 

निजला मीटर फिल्म सेन्टर , 
( मराठी ) 

वम्बई - 34 


महाराष्ट्र सरकार, डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म ( केवल 
68- तारदेव रोड , महराष्ट्र सकिट के 


लिये ) 


[ संख्या फ० 24/ 1 / 69 -एफ० पी० परिशिट 1355 ] 

बानू राम अग्रवाल , अवर सचिव । 


-- - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi the 17th Mar 1969 
S . O . 2121. --In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the constitution and of all other powers 
enabling him in this behalf and after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the Indlun Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President herchy makes the following rules further to amend 
the Fundamental Rules , namely. - 
1 . ( 1 ) These rules may be callel the Fundamental (Third Amendment ) 

Rules , 1969 
(2 ) They shall come into force on the rate of their publication in the 

Omçial Gazette 
2. In the Fundamental Rules. In tule 56 --- 
(1) for clauscs (i) and (k ) the following clauses shall be substituted . 

namely : 
" ( j ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule the appropriate 

authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest 
so to do , have the absolute right to retire any Government servant 
by giving him notice oť not less than three months in writing or 

thrce months pay and allowances in lieu of such notice : 
( 1) if he is in Class I OL Class IT service or post the age limit for the 

purpose of direct recruitment to which is below thirty - five years , 

after he has attained the age of Afty years 
( 11) in any other case after he has atlained the age of Afly Ave years . 


Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to a Government servant 
referred to in clause ( e ) who entered Government service on or beforç 23rd 
July , 1986 and to a Government servant referred to in clause ( 1 ) , 


2246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 31 , 1969/ JYAISIHA 10 , 1891 


[PART II -- 


under Government the appropria 


(k ) Any Government servant may by giving notice of not less than three 

months in writing to the appropriate authority retire from service 
after he has attained the age of fifty years if he is in Class I or 
Class II service or post , the age limit for the purpose of direct 
recruitment to which is below thirty - five years , and in all other 

cases after he has attained the age of afty five years ; 
Provided that :-- 
( a ) nothing in this clause shall apply to a Government servant referred 

to in clause ( e ) who entered Government service on or before 
23rd July , 1966 or to a Government servant referred to in clauso 

( f ) ; and 
( 1 ) it shall be open to the appropriate authority to withhold permission 

to a Government servant under suspension who seeks to rctire 

under this clause . " 
(2 ) After clause (k ), the following clauses shall be added , namely : 
" (1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause ( 1 ) the appropriate 

authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest 
to do so , have the absolute right to rotire a Government servant in 
Class III service or post who is not governed by any pension rules , 
after he has completed thirty ycars service by giving him notice 
of not less than three months in writing or three months pay and 

allowances in lieu of such notice . 
( m ) A Government servant in Class III service or post who is not govern 

ed by any pension rules , may by giving notice of not less than three 
months in writing to the appropriate authority , retire from service 

after he has completed thirty years service ." 
(3 ) For Note 2, the following Note shall be substituted , namely : 

" Note 2 : The three months notice referred to in clauses (j), (k ), (1) or (m ) 
may be given before the Government servant attains the age specified in Clauses 
( 1 ) and ( k ) , or has completed 30 years of service specifed 117 clauses (1 ) and 
( m ) , provided that the retirement takes place atter he has attained the relevant 
age or has completed 30 years service , as the case may be." . 

[No. 7 ( 14 )-EV / 67- I. ] 


New Delhi, the 19th May 1969 
$ . O . 2122. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309 of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in this behalf the 
President hereby niakes the following regulations further to amend the Civil 
Service Regulations, namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These Regulations may be called the Civil Service ( Fifth Amendment) 
Regulations 1969. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette , 

2 . In the Civil Service Regulations, in article 459 
( 1 ) for clauses (h ) and ( i) the following clauses shall be substituted . namely : - - 

" ( h ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule the appropriate 
authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do , 
have the absolute right to relire any Government servant ly giving him notion 
of not less than three months in writing or three months pay and allowances 
in lieu of such notice : 
(1 ) If he is in Class I or Class IT service or post the age - limit for the pur 

Dose of alrect recruitment to which is below thirty Ave years , after 

he has attained the age of Afty ycars ; and 
( ii) in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty ſve years, 


Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to a Governinent servant 
referred to in clause ( f ) who entered service on or before 23rd July , 1966 . 

( 1 ) Any Government servant may by giving notice of not less than threc 
months in writing to the appropriate authority retire from service after he has 


Sec. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 2247 

" " - - - 

= = 
attained the age of Afty years if he is in Class I or Class II service or post, the 
age limit for the purpose of direct recruitment to which is below thirty Ave ycais ; 
and in all other cases after he has attained the age of fifty five years . 
Provided that: 
( a ) nothing in this clause shall apply to a Government servant referred 

to in the clause ( f ) who entered Government service on or before 

23rd July , 1966 and 
(b ) it shall be open to the appropriate authority to withhold permission 

to a Government servant under suspension who seeks to retire under 

this clause " 
(2 ) After clause ( 1) the following clauses shall be added , namely : – 

" G ) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause ( h ) the appropriate 
authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest to do so , 
have the absolute right to retire a Government servant in Class III service or 
post who is not governed by any pension rules , aller he has completed thirty 
years service by giving him notice of not less than threc months in writing or 
three months pay and allowances in licu of such notice. 

( k ) A Government servant in class III service or post. who is not governed 
by any pension rules may by giving notice of not less than three months in 
writing to the appropriate authority , retire from service after he hus completed 
thirty years service ." . 

( 3 ) For Note 2 , the following note shall be substituted , namely : 

" Note 2 . — The three months notice referred to in clauses (h ) , ( 1 ) , ( 1) and ( k ) 
may be given before the Governinent servant attains the age specified in clauses 
( h ) and ( i ) or has completed 30 years of service specified in clauscs ( j ) and 
(k ) , provided that the retirement takes place after he has attained the relevant 
age or has completed 30 years service , as the casc may be " . 

[No. 7 ( 14 )-EV / 67 - 11. ] 
N . S . CHANDRAMOWLI, Under Secy . 


वित्त मंत्रालय 

( 90 lamm ) 
The faratt , 17 , 1969 


Oro gto 2123. - - HTTT77 To Fufiua , 1955 ( 1955 # 23 - 
f147 ) AT STET 21 47 34 -ETTT ( 1 ) TT for 17 21 fit 34- TT ( 1 ) Uus 
( ग ) के अनुसार , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने, भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सलाह से , एतद्वारा मैसर्स प्रोल्डहम ऐण्ड 

( forse ) faface, HATHB SAT OTTO ato Guarea T 4 975 , 1969 # Streitu TTSU 
के मद्रास के स्थानीय बोर्ड के सदस्य के रूप में पुनर्नामांकित किया है । 

[ VO 940 8 63 68- 740 # o ] 
___ के येगुरत्नम, प्रनु० सचिव । 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 17th Man 1969 
S . O . 2124 . — In pursuance of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 21 
road with sub -section ( 1 ) of section 21A of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 
( 2 ) of 1955 ) . the Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of 
India , hereby renominates Shri R . B . Jesudasen , M / s . Oldham & Son ( India ) 
Lid ., Madras as a Member oť the Madras Local Board of the State Bank of India 
with effect from the 4th May 1969. 

( No. F .8 / 63 /69 SB . ] 


2248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969/ JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


[ Part II - 


S . O . 2125 . — In exercise ot the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of sub 
clause (i ) of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the said Act shall not. 
till the 30th April, 1970 , apply to the undernoted banking companies, in so far 
as the said provisions prohibit their respective Chicl Executive Oflicers, whose 
names have been nientioned below against the names of the banking conrunies. 
from being directors of the Industrial Credit and Investinent Corporation of 
India Ltd ., being a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 
( VII of 1913 ) . 


Name of banking Company 


Nanie & Designation of Chief ].xecutive Officer 


I. The Bank of America National Trusy 

and Savings Agenciation , Bombay . 
2 . The Chartered Bank , Calculla 


Mr. J. O . Sims, Manager (Chief Executive 

Officer in India ). 
Mr. A . A . Norrie , Chief Manager for India 

(Chic lxecutive Officer in India ), 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[No. 15 ( 5 ) - BC / 69 .J 


New Delhi, the 22114 liay 1969 
S .O . 2126 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , a , on the 16th May , 1969 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


-- 


-- 


LLABILITIES 


ASSETS 


-- 


. 


. 


. 


---- 


Rs. 
22 , 60 . 23 ,000 

3450 oco 
3 ,37 ,000 


. 


. 


. 


- 


- 


---- 


Rs. 
Capital Paid up . . . . . . . . 5,00,00,000 Notes . . . . . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . . . 
Reserve Fun . . . . . . . . 159 ,00 ,00,000 Small Coin . . . . . . 

Bells Purchased and Discounted in 
NationalAgricult ira ! Credit (Long Term Operations; Fund 143,00 ,00,00C (a ) Internal . . . 

(6 ) External . . . 

(c ) Governmut Treasury Bills 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation Fund , . 33 ,00, 00 ,000 Balances Held Abroad * . . . . 

Investments * * . . . . . 
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund - $5,00,00,000 Loans and Advances to : 

1 ) Central Government . . 

( ) State Governments @ 
Deposits : 

Loans and Advances to :-- 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Banksť 
(ü ) State Co-operative Banksit 
(1 ) Others 


Sec.3(fi)]THEGAZEITEOFINDIA:MAY31,1969/JYAISTHA10,1891 

---- 


. 
. 


. 
. 


158 .00 ,29 ,000 
. 154,4 ,55,000 
. 135 ,17,19,000 


. 


. 


103,51,71,000 


Oferiment 


. 


. 


I + 1939,90 .000 
197 ,30 ,23,000 

2,98,69,000 


(1) CentralGovernment 


54 -88,27,000 


----- 

2240 


- 


LLABILITIES 


ASSETS 


RS 


Rs. 


(ii) State Governments 
(b) Banks : 


. 


. 


31, 48 , 39,000 
12.08,90, 000 


FO) Scheduled Commercial Banks . . 
(H ) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 


. 
. 


Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricul. 

tural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund : 
. 10 ,73,52, 000 (@ ) Loans and Advances to : 

State Governments . . . . . 

(11) State Co-operative Banks . . . . 
. 158 ,54242 ,000 (* ) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
. 8,34,58,000 (b) Investment in CentralLand Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit (Sta 

bilisation ) Fund - 
. 56 ,64,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks . 
. 25, 43 ,000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund : 
. 245,30 ,84,000 (a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 
. 23 ,22 ,91,000 (6) Investment in bonds debeatures issued by the Develop 

ment Bank . . . . . . . 


8,66 ,95,000 


(m ) Non -Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 
mos v er Danks . . . . . . 


5 , 15 ,21,200 


2250SEC.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY31,1969/JYAÍSTHA10,189] 


. 


. 


. 


. 


© Others 
Bils Payable 


. 


. 


6 , 26 ,71, 000 


. 
. 


---- 


Other Liabilities . . . . . . . . 133 ,66 , 73 , 000 Other Assets . . . . . . . . 44,29, 93 , 000 
Rupees . 1026 ,53 ,34 ,000 

Rupees · 1026 ,53 ,34 ,000 
* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short- Term Securities . 

avestments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations ) Fund . 

Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund, but induding temporary overdrafts to State 
Governments. 
10 .LASS RS. 91, 96 : 00 , 000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17 ( 4Xc) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
# Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 

( Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 21st day of May , 1969 . 


An Awount parsuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 , for the week ended the cóth day of May , 1969 
ISSUE DEPARTMENT 

- - 
LIABILITIES 

ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Sotes in circulat101 . . . 


Rs. 
. 22,60.23.000 
. 3652, 54 :08,000 


Rs. 

Gold Coin and Bullion : 
(a ) Held in India 

(6 ) Held outside India . 
13675, 14 ,31, 000 Foreign Securities . . 


• 


182353 . 11 ,000 


TUTAI. NOTED ISSUTD 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 


216, 42,00,000 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


398 ,95,11, 000 

64,03 ,72 , 000 
3212,15, 48, 000 


Rugee Coin . . . . . 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other cuan . 
mercial paper . . . . . 

TOTAL ASSETS . . . 


SEC.3(il)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY31,1969/JYAISTHA10,18912351 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


3675 , 14331,000 


S 


3675314931,000 


Date 1 thc 2IS ! day of Alay , 1969. 


L . K . JAA , 

Gorenilor 

(No. F . 313 - BC /69 .] 
K , YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 
" In the Statement of the Reserve Bank of India , Banking Department, as oli 
28th March 1969 published in the Gazette of India dated 12th April 1969 at part II 
Section 3ii ) on page 1296 , the date appearing as the 28th day of April 1969 in the 
Leading should be read as the 28th day of March , 1969 " . 


2252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10, 1891 


(PART II 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 22nd May 1969 
8 . 0 . 2127. - - In pursuance of sub - clause ( f ) of clause ( iii ) of sub - section 3 of 
Section 194 - A of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Central Government 
hereby notifies the Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd . , P . O . HMT., Bangalore - 31 , for 
the purposes of the said sub -clause . 

[No. 51/ No. F . 12 / 164 / 68 -ITCC. } 


8 . 0 . 2128 . - Ir pursuance of sub -clause ( f ) of clause (iii) of sub - section 3 of 
Section 194 - A of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , the Central Government 
hereby notifles the National Textile Corporation Ltd ., Room No . 283 , Udyog 
Bhavan , New Delhi-11 , for the purposes of the said sub - clause . 

[No . 52 /No. F . 12 / 65 / 09 -ITCC . ) 

R . D . SAXENA , Dy . Secy . 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


New Delhi, the 28th May 1969 


S . O . 2129. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 1 
of the Insurance (Amendment) Act , 1968 ( 62 of 1968 ), the Central Government 
hereby appointg the 1st day of June , 1969 , as the date on which all the provisions 
of the bald Act except those of sections 14 and 41 thereof, shall come into force . 


[No. F . 51 (17) - INS. I/ 69 ) 
RAJ K . NIGAM , Dy . Secy 


( TTEET AIT BAT ( THT ) 

Te facut, 26 €, 1969 
FOTO OTO 2130 -- HT (ATT) qfaf7797 , 1968 ( 1968 $ 1 62 ) # 7 ETT 1 st 
99452T ( 2 ) TTT TETT of Tat FIT STH FT 

# I , 1969 
प्रथम दिन को ऐसी तारीख के रुप में निरत करती है जिसको उक्त अधिनियम के सभी 
5907 , T UTCA 14 41 # 34ret # 1 Thii , ya Ft ATYTI 

[FO T0 51 ( 17)- fat-1, 69.) 

Toto O PUTA , 39 1971 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 


CUSTOME 


New Delhi, the 31st May 1969 


8 . 0 . 2131. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Customs Act, 1982 ( 52 of 1982 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints 
the officer mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Table below to be the Collector of 
Customs and the officer mentioned in column ( 4 ) thereof to be the Assistant 


SBC , 3( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 31, 1969 /JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 


2253 


HERS " : 


Collector of Customs for the area mentioned in the corresponding entry 
column ( 1 ) of the said Table : 


in 


THE TABLE 


(2 ) 


(vii ) The Union territory 

of Pondicherry, Kari 
kal and Mahe 


Collector of Central 
Excise , Madras 


Assistant Collector 
of Customs and 
Central Excise, 
Pondicherry . 


and further directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification 
ot the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) 
No. G . S . R . 213 , dated the 1st February , 1963, namely : - - 

In the said notification , in the Table , for item ( vil) and the entries relating 
thereto in columns ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 

G 


- 


- 


. .. 


* (vii ) 


The Union territory 
of Pondicherry Kari - 
kal and Mahe 


Collector of Central 
Excisc , Modras 


Assistant Collector 
of Customs and 
Central Excise , 
Pondicherry” . 


[No . 03 /No . F . 2 / 1 / 69 -LCI. ] 


STAMPS 


New Delhi, the 31st May , 1969 


S . O . 2132 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Governnent 
hereby remits the stamp duty with which the bonds to the value of rupees Afty 
five lakhs to be issued by the Uttar Pradesh Financial Corporation are chargeable 
under the said Act . 

[ No . 6 / 69- Stamps / No, F . 1 / 20 / 69 -Cus. VII. ] 

M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 31st May 1969 
S . O . 2133 . — IC exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962 ) , the Central Board of Excise and Customs 
hereby rescinds the following notifications, namely : 
1. Central Board of Revenue notification No. 135 - Customs, dated 1st Novem 

ber , 1954 ; and 
2. Central Board of Revenue notification No. 177 -Customs, dated 30th 
December, 1954. 

[No. 92 / No . F . 2 / 1 /69 -L . C .I. ) 


8 . O . 2134 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 54 of the Customs 
Act, 1962 (52 of 1962 ) , the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby directs 


2254 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 31 , 1969 / JYAISTHA 10 , 1891 [ PART II - SEC. 3(ii )] 


that the following amendment shall be made in the notiAcation of the late Central 
Board of Revenue No. 158 - Customs, dated the 22nd December , 1956, namely : 

In the sald notification , for item (vil ) and the entries relating thereto , the 
following shall be substituted , namely : 
" (vil) Pondicherry . 

Assistant Collector of Customs and 
Central Excise , Pondicherry ." 

[ No . 94 / No . 1 . 2/ 1/ 89- LCI.] 
M. S . SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy . 


भारत निर्वाचन पायोग 

नई दिल्ली , 21 मई , 1969 
एस . पो . 2135. -- लोक प्रतिनिधिस्व अधिनियम , 1950 की धारा 13 - 0 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए निर्वाचन आयोग, पाण्डिचेरी सरकार के परामर्श से , 
श्रीपी० गोपालकृष्णन के स्थान पर पाकिचेरी सरकार के विधि सचिव श्री १० रामकृष्ण राष को 
उनके कार्यभार संभालने की तारीख से अगले आदेशों तक पाण्डिचेरी संघ राज्य क्षेत्र के लिए मुख्य 
निर्वाचन माफिसर के रूप में एतदद्वारा नाम निर्देशित करता है । 

सिं० 154/ 21 / 69 .] 

आदेश से , 


ए० एन० . सैन , सचिव 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGRA , COVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1969 


