REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of Endia 


* 


पपमान 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 31 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extracdinary were publisled upto the 23rd 
July, 1963 - 


Issue 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. . 


136 S. O . 2047, dated 

July , 1963 . 


18th Ministry of Commerce 

and Industry . 


137 S. O .2048 , dated 

July , 1963. 


20th Ministry of Finance 


138 8.0 . 2049, dated 

July , 1963. 


20th Election Commission , 


India . 


S .O . 2050 , dated 

July , 1963 . 


20th 


Appointing a body of persons 
for the purpose of making a 
full investigation into the cir 
cumstances of the New Bhopal 

Textile Mill Ltd ., Bhopal. 
Exempting Govt. of India emp 
loyees working abroad from the 
C . D . S . Act, whose Annual 

icomc is Rs. 1 , 500 ) - or more 
and who are not liable to pay 
Income- tax . 
Calling upon elected members of 
the Legislative Assembly 
of the State of Madras to elect 
a person to fill a Vacancy in 

the Council of States . 
Appointing dates for making 

nominations etc., for the elec 
tion, referred to in S . O . 2049 

above. 
Designating Shri T . Hanuman 

thapa , Secretary Legislative 
Asscinbly Department, Madras 
to be the Returnjog Officer 
for the clection rcferred to in 

S . O . 2049 above. 
Appointing Shri G . M . Alagar 

swamy, Deputy Secretary , 
Legislative Assembly Depart 
ment, Madras , to assist the 
Returning Officer, for the 
election refered to in S . O . 
2049 above . 
Fixation of hours during which 

poll sball, if necessary , be 
taken for the election referred 
to in SO . 2049 above , 


S . O . 2051, dated 20th 

July , 1963 


20th 


9 . 0 . 2052 , dated 
July , 1963 . 


Do. 


20th 


Do. 


S . O . 2053 , dated 

July , 1963 


( 2399 ) 


2400 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ALGUST 9, 1969, SRAVANA 12 . 1885 


[PART 1] 


Ingue 
No. 


No, and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


139 S . O , 2054 , dated 20th Cabinet Secretariat . The Tresident in erdire the 
July , 1963 . 

Govt. of India (Allocation of 

Busiress) Rules , 1961 , 
140 S . Os. 2755 – 57 , all dated Minitry of Information Approval of filns specified 
20th July , 1963. and Broadcasting . 

therein . 
141 S . O . 2058, dated 22nd Ministry of Commerce List of persons appointed as 
July, 1963 . and Industry . 

members of the Coir Board . 
142 S .O . 2059, dated 22nd Election Copimission , List of Conteşting Candidates 
July , 1963 . India . 

in the Election to the Council 
of States by the elected 
members of the Legislative 
Assembly of Pondicherry , 

Unjon , Territory . 
143 S .O . 2115 dated 23rd Cabinet Secretariat. The President amending the 
July , 1963. 

Govt. of India ( Allocation 

of Business) Rules , 1961, 
144 S . O . 2116 , dated 23rd Central Board of Revenue. The Income- tax (Certificate Pro 
July , 1963. 

ceedings) Amendment Rulcs , 
1963 . 


- UL 


- 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of isgue of 
these Gazettes . 


PART II - Section 3 – Sub -section ( ü ) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 4th July , 1963. 
S . O . 2118 . - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub -section ( 6 ) of Section 116A of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
the decision of the High Court of Punjab at Chandigarh , given on the 31st May , 
1963 on an appeal from the order dated the 20th December , 1962 of the Election 
Tribunal ( 1 ) , Chandigarh , 
IN THE HIGH COURT FOR THE STATE OF PUNJAB AT CHANDIGARH 

CIVIL APPELLATE SIDE 

First Appeal from order No, 2 / E of 1963. 
Shri Partap Singh Daulta son of Shri Man Singh , resident of village Chimni, 
Tehsil Jhajjar, District Rohtak .. .. . .Appellant 

Versus 


1 . Shri Jagdev Singh Sidhanti, MP. C / o Samrat Press , Pahari Dhiraj, Pahar 
Ganj, Delhi, 2 . Shri Ram Pat son of Shri Lekh Ram , Chamar, resident of village 
Ismaila , District Rohtak , 3 . Shr1 V , N . Kaushik son of Shri G . R . Kaushik , resident 
of 118 , Than Singh Nagar , New Delhi, 4 . Jagan Nath son of Shri Tehla Ram , rcsi 
dent of Delhi Gate , Rewart , District Gurgaon ,. ... . .Respondents . 


SFC , 8 (i) THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : AUGUYE 3 , 1968 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 2401 

- - 2 - A 
First Appeal from the order of Shri S . N . Sahai, Member, Election Tribunal 
Chandigarh dated the 20th December, 1962 dismissing the election 

petition of the petitioner . 
CLAIM ; Election petition under section 81 of the Representation of People 
Act, 1951 . 

Claim in appeal: for reversal of the order of the lower Court. 
Dated the 31st May, 1963 . 
PRESENT ; 

The Hon ble Mr. Justice Dulat and The Hon ble Mr. Justice Grover . 

For the Appellant : M / s . H , L . Sibal, M . R . Sharma and Harbhagwan Singh, 
Advocates . 

For the Respondents: M /s. Rajinder Nath Mittal, Mr. Rameshwar Dayal and 
S . K . Aggarwal, Advocates . 


JUDGMENT 


This is an appeal from an order of the Election Tribunal ( I ) Chandigarh presid 
ed over by Shri Narain Sahai dismissing a petition filed under section 81 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 (to be referred to as the Act ) which had 
been instituted by the present appellant, Partap Singh Daulta , who was defeated 
in the election for a seat in the House of People from the Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency in the State of Punjab by Jagdev Singh Sidhanti, the first respondent . 
The polling for the aforesaid election took place on 24th February 1962 and the 
result was declared on 27th February, 1962 . The appellant secured 1 ,11 , 005 votes ; 
whereas the Arst respondent secured 1 , 18 ,067 votes. It is unnecessary to mention 
about the votes polled by the other candidates who also contested the election . It 
may be mentioned that the appellant stood as a candidate of the Congress Party ; 
whereas the first respondent was set up by the Hariana Lok Samiti which came 
into existence for the first time towards the end of April, 1961. 


The election of the first respondent was challenged mainly on the ground that 
several corrupt practices detailed in the petition had been committed by him and 
his agents and other persons with his consent. It is clear from the order of the 
Tilbunal dated 9th September 1962 that ultimately the Commission of corrupt prac 
lices alleged in the petition was confined to the following persons only and to 
no others : — 


1 . Jagdev Singh Sidhanti ( First respondent ) ; 
2 . Plare Lal Bhajnik ; 
3 . Badlu Ram ; 
4 . Budh Dev . 
5 . Sher Singh, 
6 . Bharat Singh , and 
7 . Bhagwan Dev . 


( The last six persons nicntioned in paragraph 5 of the petition will be referred to 
as the agents and supporters ) The case of the appellant as laid in the petition 
was that all the aforesaid seven persons who were the leaders and active workers 
of the Gurkul section of the Arya Samaj were also among those who had organised 
the Hindi agitation in the State of Punjab in the year 1957, the real object of this 
agitation being to promote feelings of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and 
Hindus in that Ştate on the ground of religion and language and later on to ex 
ploit the same for promoting their prospects in the general clections which were 
to be held in 1962. For that purpose they started by organising a Vijay Divas 
( Victory Day ) on 1st January 1958 in Chhotu Ram Park Rohtak just after the 
termination of the Hindi agitation , when the first respondent began to hold him 
self out as a prospective candidate for election from the Jhajjar Parliamentary 
Constituency. They continued to hold small and big meetings in that constituency 
and the Assembly Constituencies of the Hariana area of the Punjab where they 
systematically appealed to the electorate to vote for the first respondent and 


2402 


THE CAZETTE, OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1968 /SRAVANA 12. 1885 


[PART II 


other candidates on the ground of their religion and language . They also syste 
matically used the religious symbol the " Om Dhawaj" , in all these meetings . The 
first respondent himself made similar appcals to the electorate asking them to 
refrain from voting for the appellant who was a sitting member of the House of 
People from that Constituency on the ground that he was an enemy of the Arya 
Samaj and the Hindi language. One of these meetings was held in village Babu 
Akbarpur District Rohtak on 4th February 1958. When the Hariana Lok Samiti 
was formed on 30th April, 1961 in Dayanand Math Rohtak , it was meant to be 
a camouflage for the faction of the Arya Samaj organisation " and the propaganda 
and appeal disseminated from the platform of the Samiti continued to be in the 
name of Arya Samaj which was a religious organisation and which had the " Om 
Flag " as its symbol. The election campaign was inaugurated on 2nd and 3rd 
December 1961 at village Bohar . As many as 15 meetings are mentioned in para 
graph 1 % of the petition which were held in addition for the purpose of appealing 
to the electorate on the ground of religion and language and for promoting feel . 
ings of enmity and hatred between the Sikhs and Hindus of the Punjab . It is 
unnecessary to mention the other facts stated in the petition for the purpose of 
deciding this appeal. Along with the petition Schedules were attached giving 
details of the corrupt practices alleged to have been committed by the first res 
pondent and the agents and supporters . 


The petition was contested by the first respondent alone. Apart from contro 
verting most of the pleas , in the written statement it was admitted that the agents 
and supporters were closely associated with the Arya Samaj throughout Punjab , 
although most of their activities lay in the Hindi speaking area called Hariana. 
It was denied that they acted as agents of the first respondent and it was asserted 
that whatever they did was on their own account and further that as the Hariana 
people were affected the most by the policy of the Government not only with 
regard to language but also in regard to the administrative and other fields, Sher 
Singh who was an important political leader of the area parted company with 
the Congress and organised a political body known as the Hariana Lok Samiti. 
This body had nothing to do with the Arya Samaj. It was denied that the so - called 
Hindi agitation was illegal or objectionable in any manner or was intended to 
promote feelings of enmity and hatred between the Sikh and the Hindu communi 
ties of the Punjab . Apart from the factum of the various mcetings , most of the 
other allegations were denied . It was admitted that the first respondent had been 
sponsored as a candidate by the Hariana Lok Samiti and he participated in those 
meetings but it was claimed that he was in no way responsible for the proceed 
ings or the speeches made by others at those meetings. The first respondent gave 
his own version of what happened at the various meetings in the Schedules 
attached to the written statement. It may be mentioned that an attempt was made 
by the first respondent and the agents and supporters to deny some of the facts 
which were admitted in the written statement when they appeared as witnesses 
before the Tribunal, but the learned counsel appearing for him has stated quite 
properly that the first respondent could not be allowed to go back on his own 
admissions, if any , in the written statement. As many as 25 issues were framed 
which are given in the order of the Tribunal. Certain Preliminary matters were 
disposed of by the orders of the Tribunal dated 16th August 1962 and 3rd Septem 
ber 1962. On the issues on the merits it was found that the persons mentioned in 
paragraph 5 of the petition were not the agents of the first respondent and had 
not acted as such during his election . According to the Tribunal, the Hindi agita 
tion movement had not been started in order to create any enmity or hatred bet 
ween the Sikhs and the Hindus in the Punjab and that it had not been satisfac 
torily established that this movement had been started by the first respondent or 
by those mentioned in paragraph 5 of the petition with the object of exploiting 
the feelings of the electors or for the promotion of the prospects of the first res 
pondent in the general elections which were to be held in 1962. It was further 
found that the first respondent had not been introduced as a prospective candidate 
for the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency at the meeting held to celebrate the 
Vijay Divas on 1st January 1958 or that it had been declared by him that he could 
defeat the appellant with the help of Arya Hindi Satyagrahis , if they worked for 
a period of three years ( till the election of 1962 ) . The Tribunal came to the 
conclusion that the meeting held at Banu Akbarpur on 4th February 1958 had 
been convened by the Sarva Khap Panchayat ( A panchayat of all the gotras of 
the Jats ) of that village and it had not been convened by the first respondent or 
his agents and that no corrupt practices as alleged had been committed at that 
meeting. At any rate , any such commission of corrupt practices would be far too 
remote from the general elections which were to be held in 1962. The case of 


SEC. 3( ii) ] 


1TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 3 , 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2,403 


the appellant with regard to the corrupt practices committed at the meeting at 
Bohar on 2nd and 3rd December 1961 was found against him . It was held that 
the Hariana Lok Samiti had not been formed at the instance of the Persons men 
tioned in paragraph 5 of the petition . The Tribunal considered the evidence with 
regard to the mectings held at as many places as 15 beginning with Beri on 10th 
December 1961 and ending with Bahudurgarh on 18th February 1962 and it was 
found 

( i) " Om Flag" is not a religious symbol of the Arya Samaj; 
( ii) No satisfactory proof had been adduced that the " Om Flag" had been 

used as a symbol of the Arya Samaj or that an appeal for securing 
votes was made to it by the first respondent or by anyone else with 

his consent; 
(iii ) There was no satisfactory evidence to establish that the electors were 

asked to vote for the first respondent or to refrain from voting for 

the other candidate on the ground of religion or language; 
( iv ) The petitioner before the Tribunal has miserably failed to prove that 

any appeal on the ground of caste, creed or religion or language had 
been made to the electors for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
first respondent or for prejudicially affecting the election of the other 

candidates; 
( v ) There was no satisfactory evidence to prove that the first respondent 

had any hand in getting certain leaflets , pamphlets or posters which 

had been produced at the trialprinted , published or circulated ; and 
( vi) Assuming , without deciding that the leaflets and posters had been 

issued or put into circulation by the Hariana Lok Samiti which was 
supporting the first respondent as its candidates, unless it was fur 
ther proved that the first respondent had adopted them as his own 
or consented to their circulation or utilised them for his own benefit 
the publication of the pamphlets in question could not amount to a 
corrupt practice on the part of the first respondent, 


Certain issues were not pressed before the Tribunal and naturally no decision was 
given with regard to them . The Tribunal while dismissing the petition awarded 
costs to the first respondent fixing the same at Rs. 1,500 . Certain across - objcctions 
have been Aled on behalf of the first respondent with regard to the amount of 
costs as also in respect of certain other matters which will be duly considered 
later. 

Mr. H . L . Sibal, counsel for the appellant, has based his argument principally 
on the corrupt practices as defined in sub - sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and (3A ) of section 
123 of the Act. These provisions are 
“ ( 2 ) Undue influence , that is to say, any direct or indirect interference or 

attempt to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent, or of 
any other person with the consent of the candidate or his election 
agent, with the free exercise of any clectoral right ; 


Provided that , 


( a ) without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this clause any 

such person as is referred to therein who 


( ii ) induces or attempts to induce a candidate or an elector to belicve that 

he, or any person in whom he is interested , will become or will be 
rendered an object of divine displcesure or spiritual censure, 
shall be decmed to interfere with the free cxercise of the electoral 
right of such candidate or cluctor within the meaning of this clause ; 


( 3 ) The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with 

the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain 
from voting for any person on the ground of his religion , race, caste , 
community or language or the use of, or appeal to , religious symbols 
or the use of, or appeal to national symbols , such as the national flag 


2404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST $, 1969 /$RAVANA 12 . 1885 


[PART II 


or the national emblem , for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election 

of any candidate . 
(3A ) The promotion of, or attempt to promote , feelings of enmity or hatred 

between different classes of the citizens of India on grounds of religion , 
race , caste , community , or language , by a candidate or his agent or 
any other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent 
for the furtherunce of the prospects of the election of that candidate 

or for prejudicially affecting the election of any candidate ." 
It is necessary to refer to Explanation ( 1 ) appearing at the end of the aforesaid 
section which is in the following terms: - 
" In this section the expression agent Includes an election agent, a polling 

agent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent in con 

nection with the election with the consent of the candidate ." 
It will be useful at this stage to refer to section 100 also which gives the grounds 
for declaring election to be void . It runs as follows : 
" 100 (I) Subject to the provisions of sub -section (2 ) if the Tribunal is of 

opinion 
( a ) that on the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualifled , 

or was disqualified , to be chosen to all the seat under the constitu 

tion or this Act ; or 
(b ) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate 

or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a 

returned candidate or his election agent; or 
(c ) that any nomination has been improperly rejected ; or 
( d ) that the result of the election , in so far as it concerns a returned can 

didate, has been materially affected 
(1) by the improper acceptence of any nomination ; or 
( ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned 

candidate by an agent other than his election agent , or 
(11) by the improper reception , refusal or rejection of any vote or the 

reception of any vote which is vold , or 
( iv ) by any non -compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of 

this Act or of any rules or orders made under this Act, 


The Tribunal shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be vold . 
( 2 ) If in the opinion of the Tribunal, a returned candidate has been guilty by an 
agent, other than his election agent, of any corrupt practice but the Trlbunal is 
satisfled 


( a ) that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by the 

candidate or his election agent, and every such corrupt practice was 
committed contrary to the orders , and without the consent of the 

candidate or his election agent; 
" ( c ) that the candidate and his clection agent took all responsible means for 

preventing the commission of corrupt practices at the election ; and 
(d ) that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt practice 

on the part of the candidate or any of his agent then the Tribunal may 
decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void ." 


According to Mr, Sibal, the conclusion of the Tribunal that the agents and 
dupporters of the Arst respondent were not his agents within the meaning of 
Explanation ( I ) in section 123 was altogether wrong and erroneous. The argu 
ments on behalf of the appellant have been confined to section 100 (I ) ( B ) in which 
the word " agent" is employed only in connection with the election agent and not 
an agent other than an election agent. It is only in clause ( a ) ( 11) of Section 100 ( 1 ) 
that the words occur " by an agent other than his election agent." It any corrupt 
practice is proved to have been committed by an agent other than the election 
agent of the returned candidate then the condition precedent for declaring the 
election to be void is that the result of the election in so far as it concerns a 


SEC , ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 / SRAVANA 12 . 1896 


2405 


returned candidate should have been materially affected . Hardly any cogent proof 
has been adduced in that behalf and Mr, Sibal stated quite candidly that he was 
confining his case mainly to clause (b ) of section 100 ( 1 ). On the plain language of 
that provision a corrupt practice committed by an agent who is not an election 
agent cannot entail that result. If , however , it is proved that any person has 
committed the corrupt practice with the consent of the returned candidate then the 
election shall have to be declared to be void . This would include the case of a 
corrupt practice committed by an agent who is not an election agent as he will be 
like " any other person " but it will be essential to prove that the alleged corrupt 
practice was committed with the consent of the returned candidate . Under clause 
( d ) ( ii) there is no such requirement and a corrupt practice by any person who is 
proved to be an agent other than an election agent, the definition of which is given 
in Explanation ( I) in section 123 , in the interest of the returned candidate shall 
bring about that result provided the other requirement is satisfied, namely , that the 
result of the election has been materially affected thereby . Mr. Sibal maintains 
that the language of sub - section ( 2 ) seems to indicate that a corrupt practice com 
mitted by an agent even if he is not an election agent must be shown as having 
been committed contrary to the orders and without the consent of the candidate or 
his election agent in order to save the election from being declared void and , there 
fore , according to the learned counsel once it is proved that an agent of a returned 
candidate who is not his election agent has committed a corrupt practice the burden 
will be on the returned candidate to prove that that corrupt practice was committed 
contrary to his orders and without his consent and if he fails to discharge it , the 
election shall have to be declared void under clause ( b ) of section 100 ( 1 ) , Reliance 
has been placed on Nani Gopal Swami V . Abdul Hamid Choudhary ( A . I. R . 1959 
Assam 200 ) . There it has been observed that where the corrupt practice is attribu 
led to an " agent" and not to " any other person " as provided in sub - section ( 1 ) , 
clause (b ) of section 100 , the case strictly falls under sub - section (2 ) of the section . 
In the case of an " agent" who has been proved to be regularly working for the 
candidate , the approval or consent to any act done by him to promote the candi 
date s election is implied . In such a case the burden is thrown on the candidate to 
prove the want of consent and the act being done by the agent contrary to orders . 
It appears that the question which is betore us was not discussed by the Assam 
Court from the point of view from which it has been presented by the learned 
counsel for the first respondent who says that the Legislature has deliberately not 
employed the word " agent" in clause ( b ) of section 100 ( 1 ) because the intention was 
not to presume or imply consent of the returned candidate to a particular corrupt 
practice being committed from the general notions which underlay the law of 
agency . It is submitted that the Legislature is using the words " election agent" 
and " agent" and " any other person ” with a definite purpose and meaning in section 
100 and it is not open to the Court to read the word " agent” other than an election 
agent in clause ( b ) of section 100 ( 1 ) . Section 100 ( 2 ) applieg only in case of a 
corrupt practice committed by an agent other than an election agent and that has 
reference to clause ( d ) ( ii) of sub -section ( 2 ) and cannot possibly have any reference 
to clause (b ) of that sub - section , In Rustom Satin v , Dr. Sampoornanand (20 
E .L . R . 221) the Allahabad Court held that though the persons canvassing and work 
ing for a returned candidate had committed certain corrupt practices and though 
general consent and knowledge thereof would make them the agents of the return 
ed candidate for the purposes of section 123 of the Act in view of Explanation ( I) 
to that section , that would not be enough for the purposes of the election being set 
aside unless it was further alleged and proved that the corrupt practices com 
plained against were themselves committed with the consent of knowledge of the 
returned candidate . At page 243 the following observations were made : 


" Section 100 of the Act clearly refers to corrupt practices committed by tour 

classes of persons only , viz ., the candidate , his election agent , persons 
acting with the consent of the candidate of his election agent, and 
those acting without such consent. The corrupt practices committed 
by the first three classes of persons are covered by section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) , 
while those committed by persons falling in the fourth class are pro 
vided against in section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) , The language of section 100 is 
clear and uncquivocal and, therefore , whatever the position in English 
law as regards the liability of a candidate for the acts of his agent 
may be, that position cannot be held to obtain in this country. " 


In Abdul Majjed y , Bhargavan (AIR , 1963 Kerala 18 ) the decision of other High 
Courts on this point have been discussed and it has been held that the consent 
contemplated by sub - section ( 1 ) ( b ) to the commission of corrupt practice is diff 
pient from consent which goes to constitute agency . With respect, we are inclined 
lo agree with the above view . 


2406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12, 1885 


(PART II 


Mr, Sibal has relied mainly on the following alleged corrupt practices having 
been committed by the first respondent and the agents and supporters : 


1. Use of " Om Flag" as religious symbol for the furtherance of the prospects of 
the election of the first respondent or for prejudicially affecting the olection of the 
appellant, 


2 . Appeal to vote or to refrain from voting on the ground ot 


(a ) religion , 
( b ) caste , 
( c) community, and 
( d ) language. 


3 . Exercise of undue Influence . 


4 . Promotion of or attempt to promote feelings of hatred between 
classes of the citizens on grounds of religion , race , etc . 


different 


It is necessary to give a broad outline of the background in which , according 
to Mr. Sibal, the above corrupt practices were committed . The first respondent 
was admittedly the Senior Vice - President of the Arya Pritinidhi Sabha, Punjab and 
was at one time its President, Budh Dev known generally as Pt. Budh Dev wat 
the President of the aforesaid body . Sher Singh known as Prof, Sher Singh, Bharat 
Singh known as Mahashe Bharat Singh and Bhagwan Dey widely known as Acharya 
Bhagwan Dev were the members of the Executive Committee of that body . Plare 
Lal Bhajnik was a permanent Bhajnik of the Arya Samaj and Badlu Kam known 
as Ch . Badlu Ram was admittedly a staunch Arya Samajist who was ex -Secretary 
of the Gurukul Jhajjar . Moreover , Bhagwan Dev was the Principal of Gurukul 
Jhajjar, which is an old and well established institution and was controlled by the 
Gurukul Kangri at Hardwar . Piare Lal Bhajnik was the former Secretary of 
Gurukul Jhajjar , Budh Dey was the Chancellor of Gurukul Kangri and the first 
respondent was the Vice - Chancellor . All these persons were thus closely associated 
with one another in their social, educational and religious activities . According to 
Ghanshyam Singh Gupta (RW . 2 ) who was the President of the Sarveshik Bhasha 
Swatantraya Samiti since it was founded and who had been the Speaker of Madhya 
Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 1937 to 1051 and who appeared as a witness 
for the Arst respondent, the movement popularly called Hindi agitation Arst started 
in the Punjabi speaking area of this State and was conducted by a Committee 
formed by the Punjab Pradeshik Arya Pritinidhi Sabha and one or two other 
organisations. Subsequently it was considered that the whole matter should be 
referred to the Sarvdeshik Arya Pritinidhi Sabha. The control was taken over by 
the latter Sabha sometime in July 1957 when a body known as the Sarvdeshik 
Bhasha Swatantrya Samiti was formed to conduct the whole movement. The 
agitation was started in April or May , 1957 because the people of Punjab thought 
that Hindi was being neglected , Originally when it was started by the Punjab 
Organisation it was called the Hindi Rakhsha Samiti but when it came under the 
control of the All India body then that body was made comprehensive so that it 
might include freedom for all languages and not to be confined to Hindi alone. 
According to the evidence of the first respondent, who appeared as R . W . 21, he was 
the General Secretary of the Satyagrah movement started in connection with the 
Hindi Rakhsha Samiti. Except Bhagwan Dev , all the persons mentioned in para 
graph 5 of the petition were arrested during that movement. A pamphlet was 
Issued , Exhibit Rl/ 1 . In October 1957 by Ghanshyam Singh Gupta , President of 
the Sarvdeshik Bhasha Swatantrya Samiti called " the case of Arya Samaj" at 
page of this pamphlet it is stated that Arya Samaj is a religious body engaged 
also in humanitarian , social and educational activities and it is in no sense a poli 
tical party . Under the heading " the Arya Samaj and Hindi" the following passage 
occurs : 


" As in other fields, the Arya Samaj has been the pioneer in advancing the 

cause of the National Language, Hindi, as well. Maharishi Dayanand 
though Gujarati by birth , wrote his magnum opus, the Satyaratha 
Prakash ( The light of Truth ) in Hindi. He was one of the first to see 
the potentiality of Hindi as the National Language of India . He torm 
ed Hindi as the Arya Bhasha . To an Arya Samajist, Hindi is not only 


BEC. 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1886 


2407 


- 


- 


a National Language, but also a language of his culture and religion , 
next only to Sanskrit ." 


Il is unnecessary to refer to the other matters set out in this pamphlet. The 
Hindi agitation ended in November 1957. Sher Singh who was at one time Deputy 
Chief Minister in this State was dropped from the Cabinet on 10th April 1957 and 
was ultimately expelled from the Congress party on 7th November 1957, On 1st 
January 1958 the Vijay Divas or the Victory Day was celebrated at Rohtak to 
felicitate the partial success of the Hindi agitation movement. According to the 
appellant, the first respondent started holding himself out as a candidate for the 
election which were to be held in the year 1962 at this meeting, but this was denied 
by the latter . On 4th February 1958 another meeting was held at Bahu Akbarpur 
which was convened under the auspices of Sary Khap Panchayat which consisted 
of all the gotras and castes of the Jats. The appellant asserted that at this meeting 
A resolution was passed ex - communicating him as also Ranbir Singh who was then 
a member of Parliament and Ram Singh , Deputy Inspector General of Police . The 
Arst respondent, however, denied that any such resolution was passed at that 
meeting . On 30th April, 1961, as has already been mentioned , the Hariana Lok 
Samiti was founded at the Dayanand Math Rohtak in the presence of the first 
respondent. Sher Singh was elected as its President, Bharat Singh its Secretary 
and Badlu Ram a member. Exhibit Fl / 2 is a pamphlet issued by this Samiti 
entitled " Hariana Lok Samiti Kion " . It was stated therein that the Congress had 
been bargaining with the Akalis in the Punjab in political matters , with the result 
that the cornpromise which took place on the language issue resulted in the inflic 
tion of Punjabi language in Gurmukhi script on the students in the Hariana region . 
After subjecting the policy of the Punjab Government and working of what is 
called " the Regional Formula " to severe criticism , the basic question pased before 
the people of the Hariana region was whether they would give in to communal 
influences or whether they would lead a free and independent existence . The 
Hariana Lok Samiti had been formed as an answer to all this and it would oppose 
communal forces, fight for the national language and the national spirit for pro 
moting the unity of the nation and will also promote the interest of the Hariana 
area in all fields. A poster , Exhibit P . 17 , publicising the convening of the Fourth 
Arya Sammelan (Conference ) on 2nd and 3rd December 1961 was issued before the 
meeting which was held at village Bohar in Rohtak District on 2nd and 3rd Decem 
ber 1961. It was stated therein that those satyagrahis who had taken part in the 
Hindi agitation as also the lovers of the Hindi would rather together and that all 
those who had taken part from the Hariana region in that movement would join . 
It was further mentioned that a large number of religious Sanyasis, Mahatmas, etc . 
would be present. It was quite prominently mentioned that special arrangements 
had been made for discussing the political and economic conditions in respect of 
the Hariana region at the Conference . There are rival versions as to what happen 
ed at this conference but it was admitted in Schedule C appended to the written 
statement of the first respondent that the aforesaid Conference or meeting had been 
arranged by the Ved Prachar Mandal, Pakasma Circle . It was further admitted 
that the real facts relating to the language movement and the grievances of the 
Harlana People on the language question were discussed . It was, however , denied 
that any references were made to the impending elections at this meeting. Accord 
ing to the Arst respondent, he spoke on the question of language and against the 
imposition of Punjabi on the students in Hariana . It was admitted that Yagna was 
performed on 3rd December 1961 before the lunch interval but it was said that the 
political session started after the lunch interval and Sher Singh presided over it. 
Then followed the various election meetings which had heen convened by the 
Hariana Lok Samiti, the particulars of which are given below : 


Name of place 


Date of meeting 


1 . Beri 
2 . Barhana 
3 . Dighal 
4 . Akheri Madanpur 
5 . Sampla 
6 . Ladpur 
7 . Majra Dubaldhan 


10 - 12 -61. 
19 - 12 -61, 

7 - 1 - 62. 
10 - 1 -62. 
12 - 1 -62. 
18 - 1 - 62 . 
19 - 1 -62 . 


2408 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[ PART II 


Name of place 


Date of meeting 


8 . Pakasma 
9 . Assaudha 
10 . Jhajjar 
11. Badli 
12 . Dulehra 
13 . Sisana 
14 . Bahadurgarh 
15 . Rohtak 


28 - 1-62. 

7 - 2 - 62 . 
11- 2 -62 . 
12 - 2 -62. 
15 - 2 -62. 
16 - 2 -62. 
18 - 2 - 62 . 
1- 2 -62. 


. .. 


- 


- 


- - - 


Coming to the individual corrupt practices alleged to have been committed 
by the first respondent and the agents and siipporters , the first on which a good 
deal of argument has been addressed by the learned counsel relates to the use of 
the " Om Flag " as a religious symbol. It will have to be decided ( a ) whether " Om " 
is a religious symbol and the flag containing that inscription would be a religious 
symbol and ( b ) whether the aforesaid religious symbol was used for the furtherance 
of the prospects of thc election of the first respondent or for prejudicially 
atlecting the election of the appellant. The allegations in this connection in the 
petition are to be found in paragraph 13 and Schedule " E " . It was asserted that 
on and from 1st January 1958 the Arst respondent and the agents and supporters 
had used and made appeals to the religious symbol, namely , Om Dhwaj (the flag 
of Arya Samaj bearing the word " Om " on it ) . This symbol was used - - 


( i) In all public meetings held or arranged by the Arst respondent and the 

agents and supporters . " Om Dhwaj" was displayed in large numbers 
on stages and pandals . 


( ii ) the first respondent and the agents and supporters fixed " Oin Dhwat 

to their cars and jeeps during the clection campaign , and 


( iii ) the agents and supporters of the Lok Samiti fixed " Om Flag " on election 

officers and their houses. Sometimes more than one thousand flags 
were seen in one village. Workers of Lok Samiti on cycles and in 
foot carried on " Om Flags " and asked people to vote for the flag 
and Arya Samaj. Every meeting was started and closed with a song 
by Piara Lal Bhajnik asking the people to keep Dayanand s flag high . 


In the written statement it was denied that any such use was made of the 
" Om Dhwaj” . It was admitted that Arya Samaj is a religious but it was maintained 
that " Om Dhwaj" is not accepted or recognised as a symbol of Arya Samaj, 
" though it is correct that such a flag is used over Arya Samaj Mandirs and also 
in Arya Samaj meetings. The use of the " Om Dhwaj" by the first respondent 
or by the agents and supporters at any election meeting was emphatically denied . 
It was claimed that the election meetings had not been called by the Arst 
respondent and it was the Hariana Lok Samiti which had conyened them . Except 
for Acharya Bhagwan Dev , the first respondent or any of the agents and supporters 
did not fix " Om Dhwaj" to cars and jeeps. So far as Bhagwan Dev was concerned, 
It was maintained that it was a part of his habit to carry the " Om Flag " with 
him on his jeep or car " without the least relation with the election matters " 
and that the first respondent had nothing to do with the same. It was also denied 
that the Hariana Lok Samiti had used the " Om Dhwaj" at its election olice . 


Mr. Rameshwar Dial, the learned counsel for the first respondent, points out 
that in the petition in Schedule " E " , all the necessary particulars had not leen 
given with regard to the use of the " Om Flag" by the first respondent or the 
agents and supporters. The date , time and place had not been specified nor had 
it been pleaded whether the use of the " Om Flag " by the agents and supporters 
was with the consent of the first respondent by proving which alone the matter 
could be brought the ambit of section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) . Paragraph 20 of the petition , 


SEC . Sii) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2400* 


read with the orders made by the Tribunal on 3rd September 1962 . contained 
an answer to the objections now sought to be raised on behalf of the first respon 
dent. It has been held in Bhaguan Datta Shastri v . Ram Ratanji Gupta ( A .I. R . 
1960 S . C . 200 ) that although the requirement of full particulars of corrup1 
practices in the election petition is of a paramount importance but where not 
withstanding the absence of particulars the evidence is allowed to be given and 
taken the question would not be one of absence of jurisdiction but as to whether 
there has been any material prcjudice occasioned by the absence of particulars . 
Mr. Rameshwar Dial has been unable to show in what manner any prejudice has 
been caused . According to Mr. Rameshwar Dial , the only issue which had been 
framed by the Tribunal with regard to the use of the "Om Flag" was 14 and it 
was in the following terms: 
" Whether Om Dhwal is a religious symbol of Arya Samaj? If so , was it 

used in the meetings convened in support of the election of respondent 
No. 1 ? If so , with what result ? 


It is pcinted out that this issue could not cover the allegation of the use of 
the " Om Flag " on Jeeps and cars of the first respondent or the agents and 
supporters or on the offices of the Lok Samiti etc . Here again it is noteworthy 
that when evidence was led with regard to those matters , no objection was raised 
by the first respondent to the same being admitted . It appears that the parties 
were fully alive to the casc as laid in the petition and both in his written state 
ment as also in his evidence the first respondent made an attempt to meet the case 
of the appellant with regard to the allegations of the use of the " Om Flag " on the 
cars and Jeeps as also on the offices of the Hariana Lok Samits. The objection 
raised by Mr. Rameshwar Dial, therefore , can be of no avail in these circumstances, 


Now , it is not seriously disputed by any party and it was so found by the 
Trlbunal that the word " Om " is a symbol which is worshipped and respected by 
the Hindus in general without any restricticn as to dogma or creed . According 
to the Sanskrit English Dictionary by Sir Monier Monier -Williams, the word 
" 17 " is placed at the commencement of most Hindu works, and as a sacred 
exclamation may he uttered at the beginning and end of a reading of the Vedas 
or previously to any prayer ; it is also regarded as a particle of auspicious 
Bulution ; Om appears . Arst in the Upanishads as a mystic monosyllable and is 
there set forth as the object of profound rcligious meditation , the highest, spiritual 
efficacy being attributed not only to the whole world but also to the three sounds 
n , 11, m . of which it consists ; in later times Om is the mystic name for the Hindu 
triad , and represents the union of the three gods , viz ., a (Vishnu ) , 2 (Siva ), 
m ( Brahma) ; it may also be typical of the three Vadas. As the case of the 
appellant is that this symbol was used by the Arya Samaj at all its religious 
congregations it will be useful to refer to well-known work of Swami Dayananda 
Saraswati , the founder of the Arya Samaj, called " SATYARTH PRAKASH " . 
Chapter I contains on exposition of the various names of God and the " atatuta " 
and it is explained that " OM " is the highest name of God ; it is composed of three 
letters , A , O , M . This one name comprises many other names of God . Thus, 
briefly 


A stands for Virat, Agni and Vishwa, etc . 
Q stands for Hiranyagarbha , Vayu and Taljas etc. 
M stands for Ishwara , Aditya and Prajna etc , 


wide Satyarth Prakash in Hindi by Swami Voda Nand. In Karan Singh v . Jamuna 
Singh ( 15 E .L . R . 370 ) as also in Sangappa, Anadnappa v . Shivamurthiswamy 
Siddappali Suamy ( A . I. R . 1961 Mysore 106 ) it was held that the picture or 
portrait of Mahatma Gandhi was not a national symbol. In the Mysore case It 
was observed that in order to constitute a national symbol it must be something 
exponential or emblematic of the nation and it could not be seriously asserted 
that the picture of Mahatma Gandhi was a national symbol so tested . In Karan 
Singh s cause while examining the meaning of the word " symbol reference was 
made to Murray s New English Dictionary , 1919 Edition (Oxford ) , where the third 
meaning given wag " something that stands for , represents or denotes something 
else (not by exact resemblance , but by vague suggestion , or by some accidential 
or collventional relation ) especially a material object representing or taken to 
represent something immaterial or abstract, as a being, idea, quality or condition ; 
a representative or typical Agure , sign or token . " In Shankaragpuda v . Sirur 


2410 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : ALGUST 3, 1963, SR AVANA 19, 1885 


[PART II 


Veerathadrappa ( A . I. R . 1963 Mysore 81) one of the allegations relating to corrupt 
practices against the successful Congress candidate was that the printed 
cover page of a pamphlet, called Congress Mahatma, used for propaganda 
bore a picture showing the portraits of Gandhi, Nehru and Vallabhabai 
Patel, they being described as " Brahma" , " Vishnu " , and " Rudra " respectively . 
Aj those were inserted with the letter " Om " and there was also a 
picture of " Bharat Mata " with the words " Vande Mataram " with the 
Sun flag in one side and Star and Crescent in the other side. On the top of the 
picture of " Bharat Mata Lord Shiva s third eye was drawn over " Tripundra " . 
It was held that the printed picture blocks did not represent any religious symbol 
of either Hindus or Muslims, and by the mere user of those pictures, no appeal 
to or the use of any religious symbols had been established . The term " symbol" 
is essentially given to a visible object representing to the mind the semblance of 
something which is not shown but realised by association with it ( vide Encyclo 
paedia Britannica , Volume 21) . The cases to which reference has been made were, 
with respect, correctly decided on their facts . Keeping in view the meaning of the 
word " symbol" there can be little doubt that the word " Om " represents something 
immaterial or abstract, namely , the supreme being so far as Hindu religion is 
concerned . Mr. Rameshwar Dial does not contest this view of the matter but he 
says that the real question in the present case is whether the " Om Flag " can be 
regarded to be a symbol of the Arya Samaj which admittedly is a religious body . 
According to him if anyone carried the " Om Flag it would certainly convey the 
impression that he professed the Hindu faith but it would not necessarily follow 
that he belonged to the Arya Samaj section of the Hindus , He further submits 
that at any rate even if the word " Om " is a religious symbol, the flag bearing 
that inscription could not be regarded as a symbol of the Hindus or of the Aiya 
Samaj. The matter is one of Arst impressions and is not free from difficulty . We 
are inclined to the view that when the fag contains only the inscription of " Om " 
which flag even according to the admission of the first respcndent was used over 
Arya Samaj Mandirs and also in Arya Samaj meetings apart from other religious 
places and congregations, it becomes a religious symbol of the Hindus, in general 
and Arya Samaj in particular. It will be presently seen when the evidence is 
discussed that the " Om Flag " is very much associated with the Arya Samaj and 
can well be regarded as its religious symbol. 

The appellant produced a large number of witnesses who according to him 
may be categorised as follows: 
1 . Journalists who sent contemporaneous reports to newspapers regarding 

the election campaign in the Hariana area . 
2 . Police officers belonging to the Criminal Investigation Department who 

submitted contemporaneous reports to the Government. 
3 . Persons who stood as candidates on the ticket of the Hariana Lok Samniti 

itself for election to the Assembly Constituencies. 
4 . Persons who belonged to opposite parties like Communist Party and 

Jan Sangh . 
5 . Persons who belonged to the Congress party and were associated with 

the election in one manner or the other , 
6 . Independents and Villagers. 
As regards the use of or appeal to the " Om Flag " , the first witness of some impor 
tance is P . W . 9 Satya Vrat Bedi who was the staff correspondent of the Daily 
Newspaper, Indian Express , published and printed from Delhi, He visited Bahadur 
garh and Sampla within the Jhajjar parliamentary constituency and also visited 
Rohtak , for the purpose of surveying the election scene during the last general 
elections. He sent a report to his newspaper on 18th February 1962 . He had 
stated in the report that religious symbols and religion were being frequently 
utilised damaging the chances of success of the appellant. In the witness -box he 
stated that he had visited the election offices of the four main political parties 
in these three places and found the " Om Flag " flying on the offices of the Hariana 
Lok Samiti, He visited the election office of the first respondent at Sampla on 
which he saw the " Om Flag" flying . The Arst respondent was not present at 
that time. He also met Bharat Singh there who invited him to attend the ineeting 
at Jhajjar but he could not arromnany him However he saw Bharat Singh going 
in a jeep on which " Om Flag " was flying . The Tribunal had not given much 
consideration to the evidence of this witness on the ground that there had been 
non -compliance with the provisions of section 159 of the Indian Evidence Act 
which permits memory being refreshed by a witness while under examination 
by referring to any writing made by himself at the time of the transaction con 
cerning which he is questioned or soon afterwards. The witness can also refer 


$ IC . 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8, 1963/ SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2411 


to any such writing made by any other person and read by the witness within 
the time aforesaid if when he read it he knew it that it was correct. It is 
signifcant that no objection was raised at the time when the witness was allowed 
to refresh his memory notwithstanding the omission to comply with the require 
Inents of the statute . At any rate,, even if that part of the evidence given by 
the aforesaid witness is to be excluded which related to the report sent by him 
to the newspaper , it is difficult to understand how his deposition about his visual 
observation with regard to the " Om Flag " flying on the office of the Hariana Lok 
Samiti or on the jeep of Bharat Singh could be rouled out consideration . It is 
common ground that the first respondent did not have any office of his owII. 
Apparently , therefore , he was using the office of the Hariana Lok Samiti for his 
election campaign . Ram Nath Sapra , a correspondent for the Daily Tribune , 
Hindustan Times , etc, with his headquarters at Rohtak , appeared as P . W . 12 . 
lle covered the proceedings of the meeting which was held in the first week 
of February 1962 in Bahu Akbarpur in district Rohtak and which had been 
convened , according to him , by the Hindi Rakhsha Samiti. At that meeting 
a resolution was passed ex -communicating the appellant, Ram Singh , Deputy 
Inspector General of Police , and Ranbir Singh member of Parliament. 
He deposed that he attended a meeting of the Hariana Lok Samiti during 
the election days in Anaj Mandi, Rohtak . A procession was taken out before 
the proceedings of the meeting started . Processionists carried flags either of 
the symbol of “ Rising Sun " or of "Om " . According to him , the flag of " Om " is 
used by the Arya Samajists . The proceedings of the meeting started with a 
Bhajan sung by Piare Lal Bhajnik . There was a reference of upholding the 
honour of " Om Flag " in that Bhajan . In cross - examination he stated that it was 
at the instance of Bharat Singh that the procession was taken out before the 
meeting commenced . K . K . Katyal was a special correspondent for Punjab of 
the Hindustan Times at Delhi, his headquarters being at Chandigarh . He 
appeared as P . W . 14 and stated that he had toured the Hariana area extensively 
during the election days. He mentioned certain special features of the campaign 
carried on by the Hariana Lok Samiţi in the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency , 
one of which was that appeals were made " on the basis of Arya Samaj." When 
questioned about the grounds on which he made that statement, the witness 
deposed that flags with the symbol of " Om " inscribed in thcm , which symbol was 
very much associated with Arya Samaj were seen by him on some wayside stalls 
as he travelled from Delhi to Rohtak and on some buildings. He also saw " Om 
Flags" fluttering on some vehicles but he could not say as to who owned them . 
He went to the office of the Hariana Lok Samiti at Rohtak and saw a similar 
flag flying on the building of the office . He sent a report of his political assessment 
to the Head Office at Delhi. When asked whether he could give the details of his 
report he said that he could not do so until he was allowed to refresh his memory 
by reading the relevant issue of the Hindustan Times dated 22nd February 1962. 
The Tribunal permitted him to refresh his memory . He admitted that it was not 
possible to verify to whom the vehicles carrying " Om Flag belonged but accord 
ing to Him the flying of the flags and the presence of playcards on the vehicles gave 
an indication that they belonged to the Samiti. The Tribunal was of the view 
that the evidence given by K . K . Katyal was of a general nature and the only 
reason which he gave for saying that there was an appeal to Arya Samaj by the 
Hariana Lok Samiti was that he saw the symbol of " Om " inscribed in the flags 
at certain places and on some buildings and stalls. The Tribunal rightly observed 
that the liability for the use of those flags could not be laid at the door of the first 
respondent but one fact stood established from his evidence and that is that the 
" Om Flag" was found flying at the office of the Hariana Lok Samiti at Rohtak 
which was its headquarters and that in the procession which was started at the 
Instance of Bharat Singh , a number of " Om Flags " were seen , P . W . 6 Shri Ram 
Sharma, who had been in public life since 1921 , having been a member of the 
Punjab Legislative Assembly for about 25 years and a Minister for about 15 
months and who had fought the clection of 1962 as an independent candidate , 
stated that he was a leader of the party known as the Hariana Front, Although 
he never attended any meetings or processions organised by the Samiti, according 
to him vehicles employed in the elections by the Samiti carried the flag of " Om " 
and it was used by the Samiti candidates as their party flag. This flag, according 
to him , was a religious flag of the Arya Samaj. He saw that flag several times 
on the conveyance of the Arst respondent. He definitely remembered that when 
hc had gone in connection with the canvassing of votes to village Naya Bans, he 
found " Om flag" on the station wagon of the first respondent. He contributed a 
number of articles to the newspaper " Hariana" Tilak Rohtak which had been 
founded by him , these articles being Exhibits P . 4 . to P . 10 . In Exhibit P . 4 published 
on 4th January 1962, the heading of the article was " election main om ka jhanda 
aut Arya Samaj" (in the Election - Om Flag and Arya Samaj.) The entire article 
was devoted to condemning the use of the " Om Flag " for the purposes of election . 


2412 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1969/ SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART II 


He was opposed by a candidate of the Hariana Lok Samiti and Mr. Rameshwar 
Dial points out that in cross -examination he stated that he did not see Budh Dev , 
Bhagwan Dev, Piare Lal Bhajnik or Bharat Singh using the “ Om Flag" on their 
vehicles but he saw Badlu Ram and Sher Singh making such use of it. Bhagwan 
Dev admittedly used to fly the " Om flag " on his conveyance and even Satya Vrat 
Bedi saw that flag flying on the vehicle in which Bharat Singh went to attend the 
meeting at Jhajjar. It is submitted that for these reasons reliance should not be 
placed on his statement. On the other hand , Mr. Sibal has emphasised a great 
deal the contemporaneous statements in the articles contributed by this witness 
about the use of the " Om Flag " by the candidates of the Hariana Lok Samiti , 
In our view , his evidence tested in the light of the fact that these allegations were 
made publicly in the articles appearing in the Hariana Tilak Contemporaneously 
does establish generally that the Hariana Lok Samiti as also the candidates set up 
by it were making use of the " Om Flag " for the purposes of the election but 
Owing to the reasons suggested by Mr. Rameshwar Dial his testimony cannot be 
acccpted with regard to the use of " Om Flag " either by the first respondent or 
by the agents and supporters on their vehicles . 


Coming to the use of the " Om Flag " at different meetings, nothing much need 
be said about the Bohar meeting which was held on 2nd and 3rd December 1961 
as all that is established from good and cogent evidence is that the " Om Flag " 
was flying at the Yagshala at the time when speeches were made on 3rd Decem 
ber 1961 for canvassing support for the Hariana Lok Samiti. It is not established 
that the first respondent of the agents and supporters made any speeches asking 
for votes for the first respondent while standing near or under that flag which 
as has been stated above, was flying at the Yagshala . 


At the mceting at Beri which was held on 10th December 1961 it was stated 
by FW . 15 Dafedar Singh , a constable in the Punjab Police, who was entrusted 
with the work of reporting from 13th June 1961 to 18th December 1961 with his 
headquarters at Jhajjar , that in the procession in the afternoon there were about 
25 flags of " Om " which were being carried by the processionists . It has not been 
established that that was being done at the Instance of the first respondent. 
P . W . 24 Ranbir Singh was a member of Parliament up to 1962 . At present he 
is a member of the local Vidhan Sabha and Minister in this State . According 
to him thự Hariana Lok Samiti was using the " Om Flag " during the elections 
until the symbol of " Sun " was allotted to it when it started using that ſlag also . 
The " Om Flag " was being used by the Samiti on its offices and motor vehicles 
and at the public meetings organised by it . Ile narrated on incident which took 
place during the elections. He had met the first respondent in front of the Deputy 
Commissioner s Office at Rohtak . There was a jeep standing with " Om Flag" 
Aying on it . The first respondent said in a challenging way " look the Om Flag 
was flying on the jecp in front of the Deputy Commissioner s Office ." He definite 
ly remembered that he saw the " Om Flag " hoisted in the meeting held at Beri. 
He had only seen that cusually while passing through that place. Unfortunately 
the Tribunal did not discuss the cvidence of this witness at all , Mr. Rameshwar 
Dial suggests that in spite of the exalted position of this witness not much 
importance should be attached to his evidence as admittedly he had a reason for 
deposing against the first respondent as he must have entertained a serious 
grievance on account of his alleged ex -communications along with the appellant 
and Ram Singh , Deputy Inspector General of Police at the Bahu Akbarpur 
meeting. In the present case a large number of witnesses have appeared on both 
sides , most of whom have political affiliations with th party to which the rival 
candidates belonged . In our view , the safer course would be to rely on that 
evidence only which could be called predominantly disinterested and independent. 
It cannot consequently be held that the alleged use of the " Om Flag " by the first 
respondent at the Beri mecting has been cstablished , 

As regards the meeting at Barhana which was held on 19th December 1961, 
Mr. Sibal relies on the evidence of Rattan Singh ( P . W . 28 ) who stated that " Om 
Flag " was used by the Hariana Lok Şamiti in the meeting as well as on the trucks 
which were moving in one direction or the other in front of his cycle repairs 
shop at Dighal which is another village. He went in a truck which had the “ Om 
Flag " flying on it but he did not know to whom it belonged. It was admitted 
by him that he was on friendly terms with Satya Vir , the nephew of the Arst 
respondent. The Tribunal did not place much reliance on his evidence and we 
have not been persuaded to differ from the view of the tribunal. 


As regards the meeting at Dighal which was held on 7th January 1962 our 
attention was invited to the evidence of Kehri Singh (PW , 29 ) . Accordiog to 


8rc. 3(ii)] "THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1965/SRAVANA 12, 1885 


241 


him , the trucks carrying people to the meeting had " Om Flag " flying on them . 
Evidence of the nature can hardly be of much assistance to the appellant as 
nothing was stated by this witness to whom the trucks belonged and whether they 
had been hired or engaged for transporting persons to the meeting by the first 
respondent or the agents and supporters. The tribunal also did not attach any 
importance to his testimony on the ground that it was vague . 

At the meeting at Sampla held on 12th January 1962 Ganesh Dass ( P . W . 19 ) 
a Head Constable who was working on the staff of the Security Intelligence , was 
present. According to him , this meeting started with a Bhajan sung by Piare Lal 
Bhajnik , the wording of the song being " Jhanda Piara Om Ka" . He stated that 
Piare Lal Bhajnik exhorted the audience to maintain the honour of the " Om Flag " 
which could be done only by supporting the candidates of the Hariana Lok Samiti. 
The first respondent was present at that time. The Tribunal gave various reasons 
for not accepting his testimony . One of those reasons was that in his examination 
in - Chief he had stated that at the other meetings which were held at Jhajjar 
and Bahadurgarh on 11th February and 18th February 1962 respectively Budh 
Dev had asked the audience to take an oath that they would cast their votes 
in favour of the Hariana Lok Samiti. He was asked whether he had made any 
mention of this fact in his report which he had sent to his Department and he 
replied that he had . But on looking through that report it was found that there 
was no such mention in it. The grievance of Mr. Rameshwar Dial is that the 
Tribunal did not allow the first respondent to put questions from that report on 
the ground that the witness had not refreshed his memory before the Tribunal 
from that report and had done so before he came to give evidence as he had 
been directed by the D . I. G ., C . I. D ., to go through the diary before appearing 
before the Tribunal. On the whole we are not inclined to place much reliance 
on the evidence of this witness in respect of the usc of or appeal to the “ Om Flag " 
and nothing more need be said about him . Maru Singh ( P . W . 2 ) who is a practis 
ing lawyer was elected a member of the Punjab Legislative Assembly from the 
Sampla Constituency in the election of 1952. He had been associated with the 
Arya Samaj Jhajjar Road , Rohtak . According to him , the meating at Sampla 
was started with a song, the purport of which was “ Om Ka Jhanda Pjara " . Piara 
Lal Bhajnik further exhorted the audience to make sacrifices for keeping it flying. 
He stated that the "Om Flag" was the flag of Arya Samaj and was flown on every 
institution connected with it . The " Om Flag " was hoisted before the Bhajan 
at Sampla meeting . Many people had brought " Om Flag " with them . That flag 
was also found flying on motor cars and motor lorries and other conveyances . 
He did not notice the flag in the hands of the first respondent and the agents and 
supporters , though he saw it on the conveyances which brought them to the 
meeting . He admitted that he had only watched the proceedings of the meeting 
from across the road from the house of a person whose name he did not remember . 
The Tribunal felt that his standing in the profession was not very high 
as he was paying only Rs. 30 per annum as income- tax and further 
that his evidence was not impressive at all, According to the Tribunai, 
It appears that because that witness had resigned from the Arya Prilinidhi Sabha 
and joined the Congress party and also because he was opposed in the general 
elections by the Hariana Lok Samiti, he was deposing against the first respon 
dent. The common bonds between the appellant and this witness were that both 
were members of the Communist party till 1940 and both sought clcction in the 
last general elections on the Congress ticket . We have not been persuaded to 
differ from the Tribunal about the assessment of the weight to be attached to 
the testimony of this witness , P . W . 26 Ram Dhari Balmiki stood as a candidate 
for the local Vidhan Sabha from Maham constituency in Rohtak District in 1962 , 
He fought the election on the Harijan Lok Samiti ticket. He claimed to have 
attended the meeting at Sampla and certain other meetings. According to him , 
the " Om Flag" was the flag of the Fariana Lok Samiti. It was flying on the 
pandals where all the meetings of the Hariana Lok Samiti were taking place. 
All the motor vehicles had also the " Om Flag" flying on them . He admitted 
having used the " Om Flag " in miniature on his own station wagon . It was 
admitted by this witness that he left the Congress organisation on 9th or 10th 
March 1981 and although he stood for the election on the ticket of the Hariana 
Lok Samiti, he left its membership on 7th February 1962. i. e ., the very next 
day of the announcement of the election and he joined the Congress party again . 
This witness had first stated that he had joined the Hariana Lok Samiti some 
time in March 1981 and then he said that he left the Congress organisation in 
September /November 1961. There was an obvious inconsistency and , therefore , 
the Tribunal put a question to him which was answered by the witness by saying 
that he had given his resignation from the Congress party on 9th or 10th March 
1981 and thereafter a talk was going on between him and the Hariana Lok 
Samiti but he never joined the organisation . His statement that he had joined 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[ PART II 


the Hariana Lok Samiti in March 1961 was not correct. The comment of the 
Tribunal about this witness was as follows: 
" It is manifest that this witness has no regard for any principle and was 

keen on getting into the local Vidhan Sabha whatever may be the 

quarter from which he received support." 
We have not been particularly impressed with the evidence given by this witness 
and it will not be safe to rely on him . It must, therefore, be held that the use of 
the " Om Flag " at the Sampla meeting had not been proved . 

The meeting at Ladpur took place on 16th January 1962. As regards the use of 
the " Om Flag " , the only witness produced of this meeting is Ganesh Das I. W . 19 , 
There is nothing in the evidence of this witness which can be of such assistance in 
deciding the question of the use of " Om Flag at this meeting , 

As regards the Majra Dubaldhan meeting which took place on 19th January 
1962 , the main witness is Roop Ram (P . W , 20 ) , a constable posted at Jhajjar , who 
had been entrusted with the task of the submitting reports to the C . I. D . Depart 
ment about the various meetings . He stated in categorical terms that the " Om 
Flag " was flying on the pandal of the meeting which was attended by four to five 
thousand people . The speakers who delivered speeches at that meeting were the 
first respondent and most of the agents and supporters. According to him , Bhagwan 
Dev in the course of his speech said that Malik Partap Singh , General Secretary 
of the Congress , had sent a wire to the Election Commission prohibiting the 
Harlana Lok Samiti from using its flag during the election and Pratap Singh was 
siding with the Congress as he had got a licence for a coal depot. The other wit 
negs about this meeting is Sukhi Ram (P . W . 23 ) a Sarpanch of Dubaldhan Pan 
chayat. According to Sukhi Ram , Sher Singh and the first respondent had come 
in a jeep on which there was the " Om Flag which was the flag of Arya Sama ). 
He also saw a number of conveyances which were bringing people from the 
neighbouring places and on which " Om Flag" were flying. The truck in which that 
witness was brought had “ Om Flag " . The third witness was P . W . 26 Ram Dhari 
Balmiki, We have already discussed about the testimony of Ram Dhari Balmiki 
and it is unnecessary to add more to what has already been said . The only ques 
tion is whether there are any substantial reasons for disbelieving the evidence of 
Roop Ram , constable and Sukhi Ram , Sarpanch , The Tribunal merely stated that 
the allegations about this meeting had been denied on behalf of the first respondent 
who had produced Piare Lal, Juglal , Sher Singh and himself in support of those 
denials . The Tribunal did not consider it necessary to discuss their evidence on the 
ground that the appellant had falled to prove the allegations by any reliable and 
cogent evidence . Mr. Sibal has contended that there was no Justification for 
brushing aside the evidence of Roop Ram and Sukhi Ram as it had not been 
shown that they wcre in any way interested in eposing in favour of the appellant. 
Indeed , nothing was brought out in the evidence of Roop Ram which could show 
that this testimony with regard to seeing the " Om Flag " flying on the pandal of the 
meeting at Dubaldhan was not trustworthy . Even if he had looked up the 
report which he had submitted before giving evidence to which there was no 
legal bar there was no reason why he should not have been believed with regard 
to his observation of the use of the " Om Flag" . As regards P . W . 23 Sukhi Ram , 
he made an attempt to reproduce the speeches of various persons which were 
delivered at the meeting in detail, His deposition gives the impression that he 
wanted to help the appcllant. We do not consider , therefore, that it would be 
safe to place any reliance on his statement. Piara Lal ( R . W . 6 ) stated that he saw 
no flag inside or outside or on the pandals of the meetings, which he attended 
and which were 15 in number . Where he sang bhajana , He saw the symbol of 
" Sun " in some of the meetings . He admitted that the people who used to join 
the Hyderabad movement used to carry the “Om Flag and in the Hindi agitation 
the Satyagrahis used to carry the " Om Flag " . He further admitted that the 
meetings of the Arya Samaj started with the recital of the words in honour of 
" Om " . He denied having sung any song like " Om KA JHANDA PIARA " . It 
has been pointed out that his evidence should not be accepted as true because he 
was very much interested in the first respondent as he attended all the meetings 
convened for the purposes of the election by the Hariana Lok Samiti for the 
benefit of the first respondent. Sher Singh (RW , 19 ) is in no better position and 
his evidence cannot be accepted being of an interested and partisan character . 
R . W . 10 Jug Lal stated that he attended the meeting in question and he did not 
see any flags anywhere either inside or outside the meeting. He admit 
ted that he had joined the Satyagrah movement (presumably the Hindi move 
ment) and the Satyagrahis uhsed to carry the " Om Flaks" . On the Gurukul Jhajjar 
the flag hoisted was the "OM " . He was a member of the Executive Committee of 


Sec , 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2415 


the Gurukul Jhajjar . He did not know whether the Gurukul was under the 
control of the parcnt body of Arya Pritinidhi Sabha , Punjab . This witness 
is associated with the first respondent owing to his connections with the Gurukul 
Jhajjar and the connections of the first respondent with the Arya Pritinidhi Sabha 
and the various Gurukuls. As regards the first respondent himself, he was natural 
ly interested in denying the use of the " Om Flag generally on any of the 
meetings . We shall have an occasion at a later stage to discuss why 
rnuch rcliance cannot be placed on his testimony or that of the agents and 
supporters. We are consequently satisfied that it has been proved that the " Om 
Flag " was flying on the Pandal of the meeting at Majra Dubaldhan where the 
first respondent and some of the agents and supporters delivered speeches in 
furtherance of the election campaign of the first respondent. 

As regards the meeting at Jhajjar held on 11th February 1962, the evidence 
led by the appellant consisted of the following : - 


1. Ganesh Dass ( P . W . 19 ) 
2 . Ram Dhari Balmiki ( P . W , 26 ) 
3 . Ram Dharı Gaur ( P . W . 11 ) 
4 . Phul Singh Kataria ( P . W . 10 ) 


We do not propose to rely very much on the evidence of Ganesh Dass (P . W . 19 ) 
or Ram Dhari Balmiki ( P . W . 265 for the reasons already stated . As regards 
Ram Dhari Gaur who appeared as P . W . 11 he was a candidate for the local 
Legislative Assembly in the last general elections from Gohana , constituency . He 
stated that he was not aligned with any particular party but had the support of 
the Hariana Lok Samiti. According to him , the candidates who were seeking 
election on its support were using the symbol of " Rising Sun " . In the meeting 
at Jhajjar there were two flags displayed , one was of the " Rising Sun " and the 
other of " Om " . He saw a number of motor vehicles around the pandal. On those 
vehicles the flags of " Om " as well as of " Rising Sun " were fluttering He gave a 
speech at that meeting as also the first respondent and some of the agents and 
supporters spoke, He could not say to whom the motor vehicles which carried tho 
" Om " as well as " Rising Sun " flags belonged . After being elected to the local 
Legislative Assembly he rejoined the Congress . He had joined the Congress 
organisation in 1945 and left it in 1957. He did not belong to any party between 
1957 and 1962. He applied for the Congress ticket in 1957 but was not given one. 
He stood as an independent candidate in that year but lost the election . He 
did not apply for the Congress ticket in the year 1952 but canvassed support with 
the help of the Hariana Lok Samiti. The reason for rejoining the Congress was 
that he had originally belonged to it and as he thought the sphere of activity 
while remaining in the Samiti would be narrower than what it would be in the 
Congress . The Tribunal did not discuss his evidence with regard to the Jhajjar 
meeting. At any rate , it appears that his political affiliations have been time 
serving and he seems to be interested in supporting the case of the appellant 
having rejoined the Congress party . It may not be quite safe to rely on his 
evidence . As regards Phul Singh Kataria ( P . W . 10 ) , he was a member of the 
Punjab Legislative Assembly from 1957 to 1962 but did not stand for elections in 
that year, He noticed particularly with regard to the meeting at Jhajjar that 
every one coming to that meeting had the " Om Mag flying on the conveyances . 
The first respondent came in a jeep as also Sher Singh and he saw the "Om Flag " 
on the jeep of the first respondent. The first item of the meeting was a song 
sung by Plare Lal which began with " Piera Jhanda Om Ka" . He made an attempt 
to give details of the specches made by the Arst respondent and some of the 
agents and supporters as also other persons at this meeting. He admitted that he 
had taken no notes and was deposing only from memory. He was elected to the 
Assembly on Communist ticket when the appellant had also been elected to the 
Parliamentary seat from the same constituency on that ticket in the 1957 election . 
The Tribunal considered that the evidence of this witness was of a doubtful 
character and could not bor safely relied upon , We have not been persuaded to 
take a different view . We would consequently hold that it has not been established 
that at the meeting at Jhajjar " Om Flag " was flying on the pandil or that the 
first respondent or any of the agents and supporters had made use of the flag on 
their conveyances at that mceting . 


Roop Ram ( P . W . 20 ) whose cvidence has already been discussed is the main 
witness on whom reliance has been placed by Mr. Sibal with regard to the meeting 
which was held at Badli on 12th February 1962 . This meeting, according to him , 


2416 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ALGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[Part II 


_ 


started in the same manner as the other meetings about which he had given 
evidence . There is no specific statement with regard to the use of the “ Om Flag 
at this meeting by this witness. Therefore noting need further be observed 
about it . 


Coming to the meeting at Bahadurgarh which was held on 18th February 1962. 
Mr, Sibal has rclied mainly on the evidence of Gancsh Das ( P . W . 19 ) Ram Dhari 
Balmiki ( P . W . 26 ) and Shiy Narain Vatas ( P . W . 32 ) . We have already discarded 
the evidence of the first two witnesses . ( P . W . 32 ) Shiv Narain Vatas belonged 
to the Communist party and was a member of the State Council of Communists in 
this State . The only meeting which he attended was at Bahadurgarh which took 
place on 18th February 1962 but all that he stated was that the flags of " Om " as 
well as of " Rising Sun ” were being displayed there . He knew that the flag of Arya 
Samaj was " Om Flag " . The statement of this witness with regard to the use of 
the " Om Flag " was quite general and nothing specific was stated by him . It must 
consequently he held that the use of the " Om Flag" has not been established at 
the meeting at Bahadurgarh . 


The last meeting was at Rohtak held on 4th February 1962. This does not 
atrictly fall within the Jhajjar Parliamentary constituency but Rohtak being very 
very near the boundaries of the constituency a good deal of emphasis has been 
laid on this meeting by Mr. Sibal. The main witness with regard to this meeting 
is Ram Nath Sapra ( P . W . 12 ) a correspondent of the Tribunal etc . whose evidence 
has already been discussed before. As this witness is wholly disinterested , 
his evidence must be accepted . It is established that Piara Lal Bhajnik sang a 
song for upholding the honour of thc " Om Flag " in the presence of the first 
respondent and that the members of the procession organised by Bharat Singh 
which preceded the meeting carried " Om Flag . . 


It has already been seen that the first respondent and the agents and supporters 
and other witnesses produced on his behalf denied that any use of the " Om 
Flag " was made at any of the meetings or on the vehicles used either by the 
first respondent or the agents and supporters . Only Bhagwan Dey ( R . W . 20 ) 
admitted that he used to carry the “ Om Flag " at first on his motor cycle and 
then on his jeep . That flag had thc word "Om " inscribed thercin and also at 
one place his name and Gurukul Jhajjar were inscribed , The flying of the " Om 
Flag " by him was , of course, explained by saying that he was doing so out of 
religious conviction and as a matter of habit. Mr. Sibal points out that not much 
celiance can be placed on the testimony of the first respondent, the agents and 
supporters or the other witnesses produced by him because apart from partisanship 
and close religious and social bonds as worker s, an attempt was made to go back 
even on the admissions which had been made in the written statement when the 
witnesses gave cvidence before the Tribunal. It is submitted that with regard to 
the Bohar meeting held on 2nd and 3rd December 1961 in the written statement 
it was admitted that that occasion was utilised for election campaign by the 
Hariana Lok Samiti, Before the Tribunal, however, all the material witnesses 
of the first respondent stated that there was no talk of elections much less 
of the election campaign of the Hariana Lok Samiti at that meeting . It is 
further pointed out that although in the written statement there are admissions 
with regurd to the speeches having been made in respect of Hindi and Punjabi 
languages, the witnesses denied altogether that they talkrd of the language contro 
vers y or that they ever characterised the appellant as being an enemy of Hindi. As 
we have Anally accepted the testimony of only those witnesses who can be said 
to be wholly disinterested and independent, the denial by the first respondent, 
the agents and supporters and his witnesses on the point under consideration 
cannot be of much avail to him , 


A discussion of all this evidence establishes the following facts: 


1 . The word " Om " is a religious symbol of the Hindus in general and of 

thc Hindus belonging to the section known as a Arya Samaj in parti 

cular. The flag bearing that inscription on it is a religious symbol. 
2 . " Om Flag" was being flown during the election days on the election 

offices of the Horiana Lok Samiti at least at Sampla and Rohtak . 
The office at Sampla was being used by the first respondent for 
election purposes ( statements of P . W . 9 Satya Vrat Bedi and PW , 14 
K . K . Katyal) . 


$ EC. 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1968 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2417 


11 


3 .T a riana Lok Samiti was generally using the " Om Flag" in further 

ance of the prospects of the candidates put up hy it wido P . W 6 

Sri Ram Sharma and P . W . 12 Ram Nath Sapra . 
4 . Out of the agents and supporters, Bharat Singh at least once and Bhagwan 

Dey always are proved to have used the " Om Flag on their vehicles 
while attending the meetings convened by the Hariana Lok Samiti for 
carrying on the election campaign in favour of the Arst respondent 

vide P . W 9 Satya Vrat Bedl and RW . 20 Bhagwan Dev . 
5 . The " Om Flag " was flying on the pandal of the meeting held at Majra 

Duhaldhan on 19th January 1962 when the first respondent and 
most of the agents and supporters delivered speeches in furtherance 

of the election campaign vide Roop Ram P . W . 20 . 
6 . At the meeting held at Rohtak Plare Lal Bhajnik sang a song in the 

presence of the Arst respondent, the purport of which was that the 
honour of the " Om Flag " should be upheld ride Ram Nath Sapra 

P . W . 12 . 
It is consequently proved 
( a ) The first respondent used an office of the Hariana Lok Samiti on which 

the " Om Flag" was flying for election purposes and further that he 
gave election speeches at a pandal where this flag was fluttering and 
this was done in furtherance of the prospects of his election . He was 
thus guilty of committing a corrupt practice within the meaning cf 

section 123 ( 3 ) by making use of a religious symbol in the election . 
( b ) Bharat Singh once and Bhagwan Dev always used the " Om Flag on 

their conveyances . Most of the agents and supporters delivered 
speeches undrr the " Om Flag at the meeting held at Majra Dubaldhan 
on 19th January 1962 . Plare Lal Bhajnik sang a song, the purport 
of which was that the honour of " Om Flag " should be upheld and 

this was done at a meeting convened for election purposes. 
( c ) The Hariana Lok Samiti, namely , the party to which the first respondent 

helonged , was using the " Om Flag for the purposes of elect on 

campaign . 
The next question that arise is how far the first respondent consented to the 
Commission of any corrupt practice by the agents and supporters or hy the party 
to which he helonged . There naturally cannot be any direct evidence on this 
point and it is from facts and circumstance alone that consent can be established. 
According to the decision in Sheopat Sing v . Harish Chandra ( A . I. R . 1960 S . C . 1217 ) 
where a candidate after getting knowledge of the fact of currupt practice ( conte 
yance of voters to the poll ) on a pclling day does not prohibit the regular repetition 
of similar acts on the following polling days , it is a reasonable inference to draw 
that all the acts were committed not haphazardly but by design and that the 
candidate must have consented to them . As observed in Sarla Devi 
Pathak v . Birendra Singh ( 20 F .L . R . 275 ) consent is a question of fact in every 
case . It may he expressed or implied . It may be interred from the acts and con 
duct of the returned candidate or from other farts and circumstances established in 
the case . The mere fact of the acts of other persons helping and supporting the 
election campaign of the returned candidate would not he enough . In the present 
rose , however , it is established that at least Bhavan Deyliset tcf , the " Om 
Flag on his vehicle whenever he attended any meeting convenied by the Hariana 
Lok Samiti to canvass votes for the first respondent. An explanation has hern 
sought to be furnished that he was doing so on account of his religious conviction 
Or As a matter of habit Bc that as it may . the fart pamials that he 7,15 re seaterlly 
using the far in the presence and to the k ivledlce of the first res 
pcndent to whirli no objection appears to hara ever leen raised hy the latter , 
Admittedly Bhagwan Dev was an active worker and supporter of the first respondent 
and was one of those who had signed the so -caller! elertian menilesto " Evhihit 
RI / 3 . It must. tlicrefore . be held that he was doing so with the consent nt the 
Arst respondert The li of elections is meant to be strictiv o warur 1 on 1 The 
first resundont rannot ernain away the use of the " Om Flo " 1 Bn0van Dev 
As ver written stalenient hy merely saying that he was entitled to 1777kn ice of 
it owing to his religious conviction , Bharat Singh has been prover to have used 
the " Om Flag " on his vehicle while he was going to attend the montirime at hoitar. 
He was hinwelt princitate fur an election and it car nat he said with certainty 
whether he was using the flag for his own election or for thin clentinn minninn 
in respect of the first respondent As regards the strane of the crisa in 17 IT 
of the " Om Flar " by Piare Lal Bhainik at the Roltak mecting at which to frst 


2418 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1969 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART II -- 


respondent was present, that also must be deemed to have been done with the 
consent of the first respondent. The whole pattern of the campaign carried on 
by the Ilariana Lok Samiti and the candidates sponsored by it cannot be forgotten 
nor can it be ignored that th first respondent himself was using the election 
olce at Sampla at the Hariana Lok Samiti for his own election campaign Further 
more he had himself delivered speeches at Majra Dubaldhan in a pandal over which 
the " Om Flag " was flying . All these facts and circumstances coupled with the 
presence of the Arst respondent at the time when the song was sung by Plare Lal 
Bhajnik and the absence of any evidence that any objection was taken by the 
first respondent to his singing such a song would fully establish that the first 
respondent had consented to Piarę Lal Bhajnik singing the song in question . It 
is equally clear from the evidence which has been considered that all this was 
done for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of the first respondent. 
As even an isolated act of the use of or appeal to the " Om Flag" would constitute 
a corrupt practice , it must be held that the commission of corrupt practices under 
section 123 ( 3 ) by the first respondent and by some of the agents and supporters 
with his consent has been established . Once this conclusion is reached , 
it is unnecessary to decide the effect of the use of the " Om Flag " by the 
Hariana Lok Samiti being the party to which the first respondent belonged . 

As regards the appeal to vote or to refrain from voting on the ground of 
religion , Mr. Sibal has relied a great deal on the inauguration of the election 
campaign by the Hariana Lok Samiti at the Bohar meeting on 2nd and 3rd 
December 1961 which was convened essentially for religious purposes. He has 
further referred to the poster . Exhibit R1/ 3 , which according to the written state 
ment of the first respondent himself contained the policy and the principles on 
which he fought the election campaign . This poster had been issued by Sher Singh 
and Bhagwan Dey appealing to the voters to vote for the first respondent. One 
of the grounds given therein was that the first respondent had been the Principal 
Secretary of the Arya Pritinidhi Sabha, Punjab , for five years and was still the 
Acting President cf that body. It was further stated that in the year 1939 he 
participated in the Satyagrah agitation started by the Arya Samaj Against the 
atrocities committed by the Nawab and that he had to remain in jail for five months 
for that reason . Another matter prominently mentioned therein was that he was a 
protector of Vedas and he considered it his prime duty to respect scholars , mother 
cow and virgin girls. It was his ideal to serve all humanity by rising above con 
siderations of caste or brotherhood . Mr. Sibal invited our attention to Exhibit P . 3 , a 
news item appearing on 7th December 1961 in the Hariana Tilak which admittedly 
was a newspaper founded by Sri Ram Sharma ( P . W . 6 ) whose evidence has already 
been discussed with regard to the use of the " Om Flag" . The aforesaid news item 
related to the Bohar meeting and it was stated therein that the first respondent and 
some of the agents and supporters had delivered speeches there that injustice had 
been done to Arya Samaj etc . and the people were exhorted nct to vote for the Cong 
ress for that reason . The emphasis in the various speeches was that no Arya 
Samajist should vote for the Congress . Ram Chandra Sharma, Editor, Printer and 
Publisher of this newspaper , appeared as P . W , 5 . According to him , he covered the 
proceedings of the Bohar meeting himself but it was stated by him that the meeting 
commenced on 1st December 1961. He did not bring the original of the news 
item which appeared in the Hariana Tilak on 7th December 1961 which appeared 
to him had been thrown away but he stated that the report which appeared in the 
newspaper was a true copy of the original. Mr. Rameshwar Dial says that the 
conference or meeting was held at Bohar on 2nd and 3rd December and not on the 
1st and apart from other reasons, this should be sufficient for rejecting the testi 
mony of this witness, The Tribunal also did not rely on his evidence for the 
various reasons stated in the order with which we are inclined to agrce . 

Mr. Sibal sought to rely on Exhibit P . 11 a Poster which is stated have been 
freely distributed and which had been printed at the Samrat Press , P . W . 7 Raghbir 
Singh , who has one of the partners of that Press , stated that there were four 
partners in all and the flist respondent was one of them . The manuscript and 
The block of the Poster in question which was dated 15th May , 1961 were given 
by Hardeo Sahai who was the Secretary of the Cow Protection Committee . The 
witness did not bring either the manuscript or the block with him which had been 
returned to Hardco Sahal. He was not in a position to say why the first respondent 
ali ne had been prosecuted for publishing that poster According to him , the 
probable reason was that the declaration under the Press Art had been given by 
the Nest respondent, Mr Rameshwar Dial says that there is no mention of this 
poster in the petition and its publication has not been relied upon as e corrupt 
prartice therein . He further points out that merely because it was printed at 
a press of which the first respondent is a partner , it cannot be held that it had 
been done with his consent. As this poster had not been relied upon in the 


Szc 3( ii )] "THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1963 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2419 


petition or mentioned in any of the schedules we do not propose to attach any 
importance to it. P . W . 32 Shiv Narain Vatas who belonged to the Communist 
Party stated that he was present at the meeting convened by the Hariana Lok 
Samiti at Bahadurgarh on 18th February 1962 . He arrived there when the meeting 
Was in progress and when Budh Dev had just taken his stand on the dias and 
was about to give his speech . He did not hear his entire speech but he did 
hear a portion of it. According to him , the appellant was described as a nastika 
as he did not believe in God . Budh Dev exhorted the audience to see that the 
pair of nastiks (Daulta and Bhagwat Dayal) who were seeking election were 
defeated . He admitted in cross -examination that Mange Ram , a member of the 
Communist Party was also contesting the election from the Bahadurgarh consti 
tuency in the local Vidhan Sabha , although the Communist Party had not set up 
any candidate for the Jhajjar Parliamentary Constituency but it was supporting 
Ram Pat who was seeking election on Republican Party ticket. When asked as 
to why he had not brought such matters to anybody s notice , he stated that the 
omission to do so was deliberate as he did not want the appellant to be elected 
because the latter was being treated as a " renegade" . He further stated that the 
appellant did not leave the Communist Party himself but had been expelled by 
the Provincial Committee in the year 1960 . The evidence of this witness has been 
discussed previously also in connection with the use of the " Om Flag " . The 
Tribunal did not place reliance on him on the ground that if hundreds of " Om Flags 
had been displayed at the Bahadurgarh meeting as had been stated by him he 
give no reason why he did not complain to the higher authorities . He did not 
hear the entire speech of Budh Dev and it was not comprehensible why Bhagwat 
Dayal was described as a nastik , although he was not a candidate for that consti 
tuency . The Tribunal considered that the witness had supported the petitioner 
because of his close past association with the appellant in the Communist Party . 
Although the last reason may not be particularly sound for rejecting his testimony 
we are of the opinion that the other reasons given by the Tribunal justify not 
placing much reliance on his evidence with regard to the speech attributed to 
Budh Dev. Mr. Sibal also says that the use of the " Om Flag " by the first respondent 
was also relevant for the purposes of holding that he had made an appeal in the 
name of religion to the voters to vote for him . In Shubnath Deogan v . Ram Narain 
Prasad ( A . I. R . 1960 S . C . 148 ) a leaflet had been addressed to the electorate mainly 
consisting of adivasis issued by the candidate s party consisting of adivasis in the 
name of a " Cock " , which was the party symbol in the election and which amongst 
the adivasis formed a very important and integral part of religious ceremonies , 
It invoked the wrath of the deities on the electorate in case they forget the cock 
1. € . forgot to vote for the party of which it was the symbol. According to the 
majority judgment, when the leaflet stated that food should be given to the cock 
in the shape of votes what was meant was that the deities would be pleased if 
votes were cast in the box with the cock symbol, Their Lordships (Subba Rao 
J . Contra ) held that the leaflet was an uppeal on grounds of religion , for the 
substance of it was that it would be an irreligious act not to vote for the party . 
In the Act as it stood then , there had to be a systematic appeal but the word 
" systematic " has now been deleted by amending Act 40 of 1961. In Sangappa 
Andanappa v . Shivamurthisuramy Siddappalyaswamy ( A . I. R . 1961 Mysore 106 ) an 
appeal had been made to the Lingayat voters of thc constituency equating the 
Congress symbol of yoked bullocks with " Shiva s Nandi" , the mount of God and 
also Kalyana Basava , the great retormer and entreating them to vote for a 
particular Congress candidate on the ground that the votes recorded for the 
Congress candidate would really be yotes recorded for Shiv s Nand / or Kalyana 
Basava. It was held to be an appeal on grounds of religion or caste falling within 
section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act. In Rustom Satin v . Dr, Sampoornanand ( 20 E .L . R . 221 ) 
where a pamphlet published by a Hindu leader called upon the Hindus to unite 
and support the respondent in that case ( a llindu ) and said that the defeat of 
the respondent would be the defeat of Hinduism , and the honour of Kashi, it was 
held that there was a direct appeal to the electors to vote for the respondent on 
the grounds of religion . There was another pamphlet which contained an appeal 
to Muslims not to vote for the Communist candidate , as Communists were enemies 
of the conception of God and they denied the existence of God and disowiled 
every faith and religion and had turned out lakhs of Muslims from their homes . 
It was held that the pamphlet contained on appeal on the ground of religion to 
refrain from voting for a candidate . It was also held that an appeal by a number 
of Hindus to a section of the " Hindus" ( the Aggarwals ) to yote for the respondent 
after drawing their attention to the respondent s devotion to the Hindu religion 
and cultare and not to vote for his rival candidate as he was a Communist who 
was opposed to culture , dharma and God , was an appeal on the ground of religion . 
In Ram Dial v . Sant Lal ( 19 E .LR . 430 ) the supreme religious head and Satgurt 
of the Namdhari sect to whose orders his followers attached the greatest religious 
sanctity , and whose orders were even treated as religious commands, addressed 


2.420 


THIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART II 


several meetings of his followers and preached that it was the primary dharma 
of all his followers to help the candidature of the respondent. A number of printed 
posters were also distributed containing a farman headed as a " Hukam " of the 
Satguru under the signature of the Satguru s son in which it was stated that it 
was the primary dharma of every Namdhari of the constituency to give his vote 
to the respondent and to canvass votes for him . It was held that the language 
of the mandate and the general background and circumstances of this case , 
including the obvious consciousness of the Satguru and the respondent, of the 
probable and likely effect of such commands on the illiterate , ignorant and credulous 
followers of the Guru could lead only to one conclusion , viz ., that it was intended 
to convey to them the threat of divine displeasure and spiritual censure if they 
dared to disobey the farman of their supreme spiritual and religlous head and 
thus a corrupt practice had been committed . According to Mr. Rameshwar Dial, 
the correct view of the law with regard to appeal on the ground of religious is 
expressed in Moinuddin B . Harris v . B . P . Divgi ( 3 E .L . R 248 ). The provision 
which was being considered was the old section 124 ( 5 ) of the Act of 1951 which 
made it a corrupt practice if inter alia there was a systematic appeal to vote or 
to refrain from voting on the grounds of * 

religion etc . The election 
Tribunal, Bcinbay proceeded to construe that provision so as to make it conform 
with the provisions of the Constitution with regard to the fundamental rights 
guaranted thereby . Alier referring to Articles 15 , 16 and 19 of the Constitution , 
it was observed at page 274 – 
" The discrimination provided against by the Constituticn is one on grounds 

only of religion , race, etc ., and not other grounds which are required 
to be considered or have been considered in making any discrimination 
between citizens. It is , therefore, in the same spirit that the legislature 
scems to have enacted section 124 ( 5 ) of the Representation of the 
People Act to provide for any discrimination being sought to be 
made by appealing to joiers only on the grounds of caste, race, 
coininunity or religiun , so that a systematic appeal to votery to elect 
a particular candidate or not to elect him merely because he 
happens to protess or not to profess a particular religion would be 
a discrimination against his electlon to an inportant position in the 
State as a legislator , and wouli be a discrimination against the spirit 

oť the fundamental rights ." 
The Tribunal proceeded to discuss the quçstion whether an appeal to voters not 
to vote for a candidate because he or his party was opposed to the Koran or to 
Islam or to religlon generally , came within the mischief of the section . The Tribunal 
considered that the words " on grounds of religion had been tou broadly used 
without suficient qualification und it could not have been intended to make any 
reterence to religion 1 an appeal to voters at an election a corrupt practice . The 
Tribunal was of tlię opinion that it would be open to a person to tell Muslim 
voters that in view of the attitude which the petitioner had taken , or which the 
speaker believed he had taken on the question of the teaching of the Koran , he 
was not a person who could properly represent or further their interests . This 
case was distinguished by Dua J , who delivered the Bench judgment in Ram 
Dial s case (Supra ) without expressing any final opinion as to how far the obser 
vaticns contained in the Bombay Tribunal s decision tuld down the law correctly . 
In the present case the questions which were decided hy the Bombay Tribunal do 
not arise . All that has been establisherl is that the Harlana Lok Samiti inaugurated 
the election campaign at the Bohar meeting which was essentially convened for 
religious purposes. As to the speeches that were delivered at that meeting the 
evidence is conflicting and unsatisfactory . The only other thing proved is the 
poster , Exhibit R1 / 3 , which admittedly contained the policy and the principles 
on which the first respondent fought the election cainpaign . It is no doubt truo 
that while describing the qualifrations and achievements of the first respondent 
it was stated that he had been an important office bearer of the Arya Pritinidhi 
Salha and that he had participater in the Satyagrah agitation started by the 
Aryo Samaj at Hyderabad in the year 1939 and that he hart great respect for 
scholars , mother cow , virgin girls etc ., but this does not seem to contain the in 
gredients of an appeal on the ground of the religion . None of the cases to which 
reference has been made or which were cited before us hy the learned counsel 
for the parties contains any observaticns which may support the contention of 
Mr. Sibal that these statements made in Exhibit Ri/ 3 could be regarded as an 
appeal by the first respondent to vote on the ground of his rcligion , 


It will be useful at this stage to refer to the charges in the material provisions 
of the Act with regard to corrupt practices which have been made from time 
to time. Originally section 124 dealt with what was onlled minor corrupt practices . 


SEC. (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2421 


Sub - section ( 5 ) of that section made systematic appeal to vote on refrain from 
voting on grounds of caste , race , community or religion ctc., a corrupt practice . 
By section 60 of the amending Act No . 27 of 1956 , a new Chapter was added tor 
Chapters I and II in Part VII of the principal Act. Section 123 as substituted 
related to corrupt practices, sub -section ( 3 ) of which was to the effect 
" 123. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes 

of this Act 


( 3 ) The systematic appeal by a candidate or his agent cr by any other 

person to vote or refrain from voting on grounds of caste , race , 
community or religion or the use of, or appeal to religicus symbols 
or the use of , or appeal to , national symbols, such as the national 
llag or the national emblam , for the furtherance of the prospects of 

that candidate s election ." 
By Amending Act No. 58 of 1958 in section 123 ( 3 ) after the words " any other 
person " the words " with the consent of a candidate or his election agent” were 
inscrted . Finally by the amending Act No. 40 of 1961 for clause ( 3 ) two clauses 
( 3 ) and ( 3A ) were substituted which have bech set out in the carlier part of the 
judgment. Thus the word " his " which qualifies religion , rare , etc . came to be inserted 
1or the first time in 1961. The intention cssentially , therefore, is to make any 
appeal to volc for any candidat on the ground of his religion or refrain from 
voting on the ground ot their religlun of the opposing candidate a corrupt practice , 
but as has been observed botore , no such corrupt practice has been established 
on the part of the tirst respondent or the agents or suppurters with his cunsent. 
C urning to the question of appeal to vote on the ground of caste and cominunity . 
It has been pointed out by Mr. Sibal that acccrding to P . W . 26 Ram Dhart Balmiki 
at the meeting at Majrat Dubadhan held on 19th January 1962 one Attar Singh 
Dhanak complained of the discriminatory practices ſullowel hy the Congress Party 
in giving tickets in the elections tc Chamars only and not to Balnikis and Dhanaks 
of the Scheduled Custes. He appealed to the members of his community present 
in that mecting to vole lor the candidates of the Huriana Lok Samiti 1 they 
wanted him to be elected as a candidate because he was a candidate set up by the 
Samiti. This witness stated that he himsell gave a sposch in whirli he endorsed 
the views expressed by Altar Singh Dhank and appealed for votes to the Balmikis 
present there All this is done in the presence of llie first iespondent. Sukhi 
Ram ( P . W . 23 ) made a statement in sirnilur terms. We have not been persuaded 
to rely on the testimony of those witnesses as had been discussed before and , there 
fore , it is not possible to hold that any appeal was made on the ground of caste , as 
has been alleged . 

Mr. Sibal has argued next that an appeal was inade by the first respondent 
on the ground cf community , the gravemen of the charge being that it was a 
part of the election campaign tu emphasise that the people living in Harlana area 
were being discriminated against by the Congress Government and it was essential 
that the first respondent should be elected in order to save the Hariana People 
from backwardness etc . For this purpose reliance has been placed on Exhibit 
R1 / 2 , a pamphlet issued by the Ilariana Luk Samiti entitled " Hariana lok Samiti 
Kicon " in which it was asserted that apart from other matters , the Samiti would 
promote the interests of the Harjana area in all fields and would virtually fight 
for rights and privileges for the Hariana region . It was RW . 20 Bhagwan Dev 
who admitted that the main purport of his speech which he made at the various 
meetings was that in spite of the sacrifices made hy the Harlana people in 1857 
the British had done great injustice to them by severing them from Agra Province 
and tacking them on with the Punjab State . The result has been that Hariana 
was a very backward area . He also used to complain of the discrimination shown 
by the State Government in the matter or services as well as of beneficial projects 
concerning development between the two areas of this State and according to him 
the Government was favouring the Punjabi speaking area . Sher Singh (RW . 19 ) 
deposed that in the meeting at Beri he had criticised the local Government re 
garding the discrimination shown between the Hindi and Punjabi regions and had 
supported his speech by quoting facts and Agures. These speeches were delivered 
in the presence of the first respondent to which he raised no objection . In what 
may be called " the election manifesto " , Exhibit R1 / 3 it was stated that the Hariano 
region was being pushed backward from the political point of view . Discrimination 
was being made in the matter of education and services as also other heneficial 
schemes . It was further stated that the first respondent was standing 123 i candi 
date on the permission of the well-wishers of the Hariana region as also of other 
important peryonalities . A good deal of ( nipliasly has been laid by Mr. Sibal on 
he further statement contained in this poster which was to the effect that to vote 
fcr the first respondent was to vote for the economic development of the Hariana 
region , promotion of Indian culture and integration of Indian fiationalisni. 


2422 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/ SRAVANA 12 , 1885 [PARI JI-- 

-- = = - - 
According to Mr. Şibal, the appeal that was thus made was on the ground of the 
first respondent s community which may be called the community oľ the Hindi 
region of the Hariana region . It is submitted that there can be a regional com 
munity as also a linguistic community and , therefore , the evidence which had 
been produced was enough to establish the aforesaid cçrrupt practice on the part 
of the first respondent as also the agents and supporters with his consent. Our 
attention has been invited to the meaning of the word " community " in sub -sertion 
( 3 ) ol section 123. In Ashfaq Ali Khan v . Darshan Singh ( 20 E . L . R . 136 ) . It has 
been observed that the word as employed in the aforesaid provision would retur 

to communities formed on the basis of common interest other than religion , e . g ., 
the Bengali community or the Punjabi community in Uttar Pradesh . The Allahabad 
Court referred to one of the meaning of the word " community " given in the Oxford 
Dictionary as " body of men having rcligion , profession , etc ." In common e .y ., 
mercantile community . Jewish community ." In Webster s New International 
Dictionary , Vol. 1 , at page 542, no reference is made to " community " as having 
been constituted on the basis of religion . It is constituted on the basis of basis 
of residence in a particular locality or having other interests in common . The 
Allahabad Court was of the view that in this country persons belonging to the 
same religion are also referred to as being members of a community and the 
meaning as glven in the Oxford Dictionary appears to be the meaning in which 
the word has been used . In Sudhir Laxman Handra v . Shripat Amrit Dange 
( A . I. R , 1960 Bom . 249) . It was held that the term " community " could not in the 
context of section 123 ( 3 ) be confined to a religious community only . In Khilumal 
Topandes v . Arijundas Tulsidas ( 22 E . L . R . 404 ) the Rajasthan Court expressed the 
view that having regard to the intention of the Legislature and to the association 
nf the words " caste , race and religion with the word " community " , the meaning 
yf the word " community " must be restricted , and it should be read as meaning 
A body which has been formed , organised or has come into existence on the basis 
of caste , race or religion or any other factor contributing or leading to the dlvision 
of the nation . It is only when the organisation of the community is such as aims 
to divide the citizens of the country and releases forces entagonistic to the unity 
of the country that it comes within the purview of section 123 ( 3 ) . In that case 
refugees from Sind who were mostly Sindhies formed themselves into a party 
called the Pursharthi Panchayat which was recognised as a political party by 
the Election Commission . An appeal was made by a member of the party to the 
other members of the party to vote for him . The Rajasthan Court did not corisider 
that it was an appeal to Sindhies on the ground of community within the meaning 
of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act . Mr, Rameshwar Dlal says that section 123 ( 3 ) cannot 
and does not prohibit an appeal to vote or refrain from voting on the grounds 
of misdeeds or supposed misdeeds of a political party even though the appeal 
may be directed to the members of a particular caste or crmmunity , and is based 
on the alleged misdeeds of that party against that particular caste or community . 
He has relied on Raja Vijai Kumar Tripathi v . Ram Saran Yadav ( 22 E .L . R . 289 ) 
in which the Allahabad Court held that speeches made in meetings of a federation 
of backward castes including Hindus, Muslims and members of other castes , who 
are economically and socially backward , criticising the Congress for not having fairly 
treated such castes not helped the members of such castes . In which no appeal was 
inade to vote or refrain from voting for a particular candidate did not come within 
section 123 ( 3 ) . He also urged that if any particular area or region in the country or 
State has any grievance in the matter of treatment accorded to its inhabitants by 
the ruling party or the Government. It has every right and it is legitimate in 
a democratic form of Government to Ventilate its grievances and to say to the 
electorate that its interest would be safe in the hands of a particular candidate 
or that he would espouse the cause of that community . Mr. Rameshwar Dial 
relies on the decisions of the Tribunals in Shiv Dutt 79 . Banarsidas Dhangar 
( 9 E . L . R . 324 ) and Kataria Takandas Hemraj v . Pinto Fredarick Michael ( 18 E .L . R . 
403) , according to which the word " community " used in the relevant provisions 
of the Act in collection of the words " caste , race and religion " must be given 
narrower meaning than the dictionary meaning of " a body of people having 
common interest." In the second case that test was applied where an appeal had 
been made to all sections of the residents of the Maharashtrian area without 
any distinction of caste , religion or faith that they should not vote for the Congress 
candidate as the Congress Government had resorted to firing and killed Maharashtrian 
leaders for demanding a separate Maharashtra State and the photos of the martyrs 
who had been killed were attached to the appeal and it was even stated that the 
ballot box of the Congress Party was filled with the blood of Maharashtrian martyrs. 
After giving the matter due consideration , we are inclined to the view that the 
people living in the Hariana region cannot be regarded as a community in the 
sense in which that word has been employed in section 123 ( 3 ) , with respect we 
are inclined to agree with the view of the Rajasthan High Court in Khilumat 
Topandas case ( supra ) that the meaning of this word in that section must be 


SEC 3 (it )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2423 


restricted and it should be read as meaning a sectional body which exists or has 
been organised more or less on the basis of Assiparous and antinational objections .. 
The suggestion of Mr. Şibal is that the people of Hariana have been agitating for 
a separation from the Punjab State but he has not been able to refer to any 
cogent material on the record from which it can be inferred that the people of 
Hariana are organised as a community on such separatist and anti-national basis . 
It is difcult to agree with Mr. Slbal that the people belonging to a particular 
area or region cannot ask for redress of thelr grievances in the matter of policy 
of the Covernment towards educational, economic and other matters vis - a -vis the 
people inhabiting a particular district or combination of districts or a geographical 
unit . We are therefore , holding that no corrupt practice was committed by the 
first respondent on the aforesaid ground . 

The next question which is of substantial importance is whether the first 
respondent issued appeals to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of his 
language . It is common ground that the language of the first respondent is Hindi 
whereas that of the appellant other than Hindi. In paragraph 9 of the written : 
statement of the first respondent, it was admitted that the Harlana Lok Samiti 
Included the protection of Hindi language and script as a part of its electioneering 
programme but it is was denied that it made that body identical with the Arya 
Samaj simply because both these bodies were opposed to the Government s attempt 
to force the teaching of Punjabi in Gurmukhi script on young boys and girls of 
Hariana or to force any language on unwilling people . It was further admitted 
in the summary of the particulars of the meeting held on 10th December 1961 in 
village Bori that the first respondent delivered a speech in which substantially he 
stated : 
" Shri Daulta is a person without principles . At first , he was a member of 

The Zamindara League and worked for it . In 1952 he fought the 
elections as an independent candidate . In 1957 he fought as a candi 
date of the Communist Party and was elected M . P . For his own 
selfish ends he joined the Congress after he had been expelled by 
the Communist party after the “ Mohangarh incident. All that went 
to show is that he is a person without any principles and is an 
opportunist . Shri Daulta joined hands with the Government in 
forcing Punjabi on the Hariana people and he opposed the language 
movement." 


It was further admitted that Badlu Ram made a speech saying something like 
this " where were Pt. Bhagwat Dayal and Daulta when Shri Sidhanti and Sher 
Singh were imprisioned during the Hindi Andolan ," It was also stated that 
Bhagwan Dey appealed to the audience to vote for the candidates of the Hariana 
Lok Samiti as one of its objects would be to Aght against compulsory imposition of 
Punjabi, Harphul Singh ( R . W . 8 ) stated that at the meeting at Beri the Arst 
respondent made a speech that no one should vote for the appellant as he was a 
man with no principle and he appealed to them to vote for him . The witness then 
proceeded to sily : - 
" He did not say anything else ir regard to Daulta Sahih . (Note : -- -Now the 

witness says that he dubbed Daulta Sahib as an opponent of Hindi 
also " ) . 


According to this witness, the gist of the speech of Bhagwan Dev was that the 
forcible imposition of Gurmukhi upon the people of Hindi speaking area was 
highly detrimental to the future career of their children . Badlu Ram warned 
the people not to vote for Bhagwat Dayal or the appellant as they were prominent 
by their absence at the time of the Hindi agitation movement and due to such 
conduct no vote should be given to them . As regards the meeting at Sampla it 
was admitted that the substance of the speech given by the Arst respondent was 
the same as had been reproduced with regard to the meeting at Beri. In the 
summary of the particulars relating to the meeting held at Ladpur on 16th January 
1962 the first respondent admitted that in his speech Bhagwan Dey pointed out 
the part played by the appellant and other " Congresswalas " in suppressing the 
language movement. He wanted the people to vote for the candidates of the 
Hariana Lok Samiti, The reply of the first respondent contained in the summary 
of the particulars of the meeting held at Majra Duhaldhan was 


0 


" The answering respondent made a speech but the words attributed to 

him by the petitioner are denied to have been uttered . It was usual 
with him to make a speech , the substance of which has already been 

ven in respect of the meeting at Beri village ." 


2424 


TIIE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART II 


With regard to the meeting at Bahadurgarh It was stated that the first respondent 
in his speech referred to the opposition of the Government and its supporter, the 
petitioner, to the language movement. In Exhibit R1/ 3 which may be regarded 
as the election manifesto issued on behalf of the first respondent, it was stated 
that one of the matters mentioned was that in 1957 the Arst respondent had been 
selected as the Principal Secretary for the Punjab Hindi Satyagarh Andolan . It 
was further stated that he had given a speech at Delhi in the presence of 70 to 75 
thousand people after breaking the police cordon when he was arrested and there 
after remained in jail for 5 months in connection with that agitation , 


According to Mr. Şabal, the above evidence apart from a good deal of other 
material on the record showed that the first respondent had appealed to the voters 
10 vote for him on the ground of his language which was Hindi and had also 
asked the voters to refrain from voting for the appellant who was described as an 
opponent of the Hindi langauge and a supporter of the imposition Punjabi in 
Gurmukhi script on the people of Hariana. It is pointed out that the first respondent 
was actively associated with the Hindi agitation movement in 1957 and the burden 
of the pamphlet, Exhibit R1/ 2 , was that Punjabi was being forced on the people 
of Hariana whereas it was the national language, namely , Hindi which should 
receive proper treatment and encouragement at the hands of the Government and 
that when an appeal was being made to vote on the ground that the first respon 
dent had been actively associated with the Hindi agitation in 1957 there can be 
no doubt that he was asking for voles on the ground of his language, namely , 
Hindi. A great deal of emphasis has been made on the admission in the written 
statement as also the evidence of R . W . 8 Harphul Singh which according to 
Mr, Sibal clearly establish that votes were being sought either by the first respon 
dent or the agents and supporters in his presence persistently which would be with 
his consent on the basis that the language of the first respondent was Hindi and 
that he would champion its cause and resist the imposition of the rival language , 
namely , Punjabi and further it was suggested all the time that the appellant was 
hostile to the cause of Hindi which was not his language and was u supporter of 
1he Punjabi language as the Government wanted to impose it forcibiy on the 
Hariunal people . Mr. Rameshwar Dial does not dispute the fact that the broad 
policy and object of the Ilariana Lok Samiti as also the first respondent was to 
champion the cause of Hindi language, particularly in respect of the people living 
in the Hariana region and to oppose what was called the imposition ul Punjabi 
language in Gurmukhi script on the people there . He submits that where the 
language policy of the Government or of the rival political party is subject to 
criliism or the cause of the language which happens to be the language of a 
candidate is espoused it does not follow that an appeal is being made to vote on 
the ground of language . He largely relied on Ghayur Ali Khan v . Kashan Gupta 
( 16 E . L . R . 154 ) in which the aliestion was whether the criticism of the language 
policy of the Uttar Pradesh Government would constitute a corrupt practice . It 
was observed that many Hindus specially those belonging to the western district 
are stated to be in favour of retaining Urdu also as one of the regional languages 
and that could not be regarded as an appeal on the grounit of religion or community . 
The observations of the Allahabad Court in that case were confined to a considera 
tion of that question from the point of view of an appeal having been made on the 
ground of religion or community . Indeed , in section 123 ( 3 ), as it stood then , the 
word " language " did not exist. It is for the first time that it was introduced by 
the amending Act No. 40 of 1961. The suggestion of Mr. Sibal is that this was 
presumably done because of the linguistic riots in various parts of the 
country out of which mention may be made of the troubles in Assam and Bombay . 
The Parliament in its wisdom decided that all appeals on the ground of language 
in the matter of elections should also be made corrupt practices because of the 
baneful and highly explosive tendencies of such appeals resulting in linguistic 
riots . Mr. Sibal says that even if that was not the reason for inserting the word 
" language" for the first time in section 123 ( 3 ), it is obvious that the Parliament 
intended to eliminate all possibilities of an election being fought on the grounds 
of religion , race , caste , community and language. Moreover , appeal on the ground 
of a person s language would have the same effect on the minds of the voters as 
an appeal on the ground of religion race, caste or commiwity. Mr. Rameshwar 
Dial points out that Article 29 of the Constitution Confer s a fundamental right 
in the following words : 
" Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part 

thereof having a distinct language, script or rulture of its own shall 

have the right to conserve the same." 
He submits , therefore , that iſ the people living in the Hariana region have 2 
distinct language or script, piz . Hindl of its own , they have a rightt itle 


SEC. 3( 11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2425 


the same and for that purpose it could never have been intended by the Parlia 
mat, that an appeal on the ground of safeguarding the interest of that langauge 
ur script should be made a corrupt practice, In Jumuna Prasad Mukharya v . 
Lachhi Ram ( 10 E . L . R . 120) the constitutionality of sections 123 ( 5 ) and 124 ( 5 ) of 
the Act , as they stood prior to the amendments , was challenged on the ground 
that they were violative of articles 19 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution . It was contended 
before their Lordships of the Supreme Court that Article 245 ( 1 ) prohibits the . 
making of laws which violate the Constitution and that the impugned sections 
interfere with the citizen s fundamental right to freedom of speech , The following 
Observations made in that case are noteworthy : - - 

There is noting in this contention . These laws do not stop a man from 

speaking. They merely prescrive conditions which must be observed 
if he wants to enter Parliament. The right to stand as a candidate 
and contest an election is not a common law right. It is a special 
right creat d by the statute and can only be exercised on the condi 
tionis laid down hy the statute . The Fundamental Rights Chapter has 
no bearing on a right like this created by statute The appcllants 
have no fundamental right to be elected members of Parliament. If 

they want that, they must observe the rules" , 
Mr. Rameshwar Dial, therefore, cannot invoke the provisions of Article 29 and 
suggest that the provisions contained , particularly about language in section 
123 ( 3 ), are derogatory of the fundamental rights conferred by Article 29 . It is 
clear from a plain reading of that provision that any appeal by a candidatc to 
the electors to vote for him on the ground of his language or to refrain from 
voting for any person on the ground of his language would be a corrupt practice . 
The simplest case would be where a candidate says to the voters that he speaks 
& particular language and , therefore , they should vote for him , but the appeal on 
the ground of language can be also made by saying that the language of the 
candidate is Hindi, as it is in the case of the first respondent and that iť they did 
not vote for him ,the cause of that language will be thrown in jeopardy Or will 
sujer very much at the hands of the opposing candidate who cloes not profess 
either to speak that language or to support its cause and who on the contrary 
would support the imposition of another language contrary to the wishes of the 
irhabitants of a particular region . By way of analogy if a candidate Addresses an 
appeal to his co -religionists to vote for him on the ground of religion , that would 
according to all decisions amount to an appcal on the ground of religion , Similarly 
when the party which sponsored the election of the first respondent admittedly 
inclurled the protcction of llindi language and script as a part of the electioncering 
programme and in hls speeches the first respondent and the agents and supporters 
in his presence kept on cmphasising that it the appellant was elected , Punjabi 
language would be forcerl on the Hariana people as the latter was an opponent of 
the Hindi language and when the claims of the first respondent were based also 
on the prominent and active part which he had taken in the Hindi Satyagrah 
movement in 1957 there can be little doubt that an appeal was being made to all 
lhe llindi speaking persons to vote for the first respondent on the ground of his 
language , namely , Hindi and to refrain from voting for the appellant for the reason 
that Hindi was not his language . There inay be on principle no objection to A 
candidate for election criticising the policies of the Government including its 
language policy but what has to be seen is whether in doing so he is not trans 
gressing the limit set by the express provision in the statute which appears to have 
been deliberately made stringent by the Parliament owing to the various reasons 
suggested by Mr. Şibal to which reference has already been made . As is well 
known , it is not for the Court to speculate on the propriety or othewise of a 
particular statutory provision and the consequences flowing from It which may 
lead to results which may not be in consonance with the accepted or normal 
120tions with regard to expression of views on various matters but as has been 
observed by their Lordships in Jamuna Prasad Mukhariya s case , no body has a 
right to be elected as a member and if he wants that he must observe the rules, 
The Tribunal hardly devoted any attention to this aspect of the case and has 
practically given no cogent or proper decision in respect of it . We are constralned 
10 hold that the Arst respondent was guilty of the corrupt practice of Appealing 
for votes on the ground of his language and of asking the voters to refrain from 
voting for the appellant on the ground of his languoge . It cannot be seriously 
risputed that the appeals on the ground of language which were being made by 
the agents and supporters in the presence of the first respondent not only at one 
mecting hui A1 a number of roretings repeatedly must be deemed to have been 
Trade , with his consent. It is also ahundantly clear that. all this was being done 
To further the prospects of the electior of the Arst respondent anrl to predlcially 
itect the election of the appellant. 


2,426 


THE GAZETTE OF INDL4 : AUGUST 9, 1969 /SRAVANA 12 . 1885 


[ PART II 


It has also been contended that an attempt was made by the first respondent 
to exercise undue influence within the meaning of proviso ( a ) ( ii ) of section 123 ( 2 ) . 
That provision has already been reproduced in the earlier part of the judgement. 
For this purpose it has been suggested that Budh Dev , who is a religious head of 
the Arya Samaj, with the consent of the first respondent induced or attempted to 
induce the electors to believe that they would be rendered object of divine dis 
pleasure or spiritual censure , if they did not vote for the first respondent. It is 
pointed out that at most of the meetings which were convened by the Hariana Lok 
Samiti, of which mention has already been made, and which were attended by 
Budh Dev , he used to give ashirbad before the meeting would end . He would 
administer an oath to the audience for voting for the Hariana Lok Samiti by say 
ing that he was Brahm and that anybody violating the pledge to Brahm would go 
to hell . The wording may have varicd at different meetings but the main purport 
of the oath alleged to have been administered by Budh Dev was on the lines indi 
cated above . A number of witnesses who had been produced by the appellant gave 
testimony to that effect, e . g ., P . W . 11, P . W . 19 , P . W . 10 , P . W . 26 , P . W . 5 and P . W . 8 , 
For the reasons which have already been discussed before , it is not possible to 
place much reliance on the evidence of these witnesses . P . W . 12 Ram Nath Sapra , 
a correspondent of the daily Tribune, Hindustan Times, etc ., stated that he attend 
ed the meeting held in Anaj Mandi in Rohtak , The last person who addressed 
that meeting was Budh Dev . The following part of this witness s statement 
may be reproduced as recorded : 
" After giving his ashirbad to the audience enjoined them to vote for the 

candidates set up by the Hariana Lok Samiti and to raise their 
hands in token of support . After the people present there had 

raised their hands the meeting came to an end . 
* There is a note recorded by the Tribunal which must also be reproduced : 
There is a note recorded by the Tribunal which must also be reproduced : 

that paran karo and that has not been taken down . The learned 
counsel for the other side objects that he had not said this earlier . 
I also do not recollect whether he has said it but I think it is fit 
that this matter should be cleared at this very state . The witness 
says that he has said it .) " 


According to Budh Dey ( R . W . 18 ) it was incorrect that he had misused his posi 
tion as the President of the Gurukul section of Arya Samaj. He denied having 
taken advantage of the regard which people had for him as dada by asking 
them to vote for the Samiti candidate on the ground of Arya Samaj and Hindi 
language . He further stated that he never gave any ashirbad to the audience 
in any one of the meetings . As regards ashirbad , he stated that he did not 
believe in ashirbad and his arguments used to be his ashirbad . He said that 
he used to give various reasons when the people asked for shirbad . " I believe 
in arguments." A question was then put to him whether he said anything else 
in these meetings and the answer given was: 


" Even after being convinced by my arguments but out of temptation in 

form of money or wine offered to you , you sell your yote , then 
this beautiful country of ours will be turned into a veritablé hell. 
In the end I used to ask if they were satisfied with my arguments 
then they should raise their hands in token of the fact that they 
were convinced . Almost the entire gathering present used to 
raise their hands. It is incorrect that I used to tell people that it 
they did not cast their vote for samiti candidates they will go to 
Narak ." 


incorrect that gathering the fact thauments 


Even if it be assumed that whatever was said about Budh Dev was with the 
consent of the first respondent, it is not possible to see how any undue influence 
was exercised by him as a religious head within the meaning of proviso ( a ) ( ii ) 
of section 123 ( 2 ) . The only evidence on which we are prepared to place 
meliance is that of Ram Nath Sapra and that does not indicate that he involved 
any kind of divine displeasure or spiritual censure in the cvent of the electors 
not voting for the first respondent. Mr. Sibal says that Budh Dev admitted the 
use of the word " Hell" in the passage set out above and this showed that he 
was inyoking some kind of divine displeasure or spiritual censure in the 
matter . It is obvious from the context in which the word " hell" has been used 
that no such meaning can be attributed to it as would bring it within the ambit 
of proviso ( a ) ( ii ) of section 123 / 2 ) . We are not even satisfied that Budh Dev 
was such a religious head that was in a position to exercise any undue 


SFC, 3 (li)] 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2427 


influence of the nature contemplated by the statutory provision in question . 
Mr Sibal then suggested that since he was a very respected personage in the 
Arya Samaj, his taking a pledge from the voters present at the meetings to 
vote for the Arst respondent would amount to exercise of undue influence within 
the opening part of section 123 ( 2 ). Merely because some leader of a particular 
section of community takes a pledge from the voters present at a meeting that 
they would vote for a particular candidate , it cannot be said that lie 18 exer 
cising any undue influence of them , Political and social leaders do go about 
canvassing for votes for the candidates and that is a normal pattern of the 
electioneering campaign . Mr. Sibal has not been able to refer to any principle 
or authority on which it can be decided that any such action on the part of 
Budh Dev would amount to exercise of undue influence within the meaning of 
section 123 ( 2 ) . 

The last matter can be disposed of shortly as it was raised only in half- hearted 
manner. It was contended that the Arst respondent and the agents and sup 
porters had committed a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3A ) by attempting 
10 promote feelings of hatred between different classes of citizens on the ground 
of religion , race, caste , community and language . In the main , the suggestion is 
that in the specches delivered at the election mectings it was brought out promi 
nently that the Congress party had entered into an unholy alliance with the 
Akalis who were a communal organisation and the interests of the Hindus had 
been placed in grave peril and that the people of the Hariana region should resist 
the imposition of a language foreign to their culture and traditions, namely , 
Punjabi and thus a great deal of bitterness and hatred had been created between 
the Hindus and the Sikhs residing in the Punjab State . The argument which 
has been addressed could not be substantiated from such evidence which we 
consider reliable and dependable . Consequently it cannot be held that any such 
corrupt practice as alleged has been established to have been committed by the 
first respondent or the agents and supporters with his consent. 


Mr. Rameshwar Dial raised certain points which ar ? based mainly on the 
cross -objections which were filed on behalf of the first respondent under Order 
XLI, rule 22 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It has been contended that the 
Tribunal should have given a decision about the constitutionality of the provi 
sions contained in sub - sections ( 3 ) and (3A ) of section 123 . It was sought to 
be argued before us that these provisions are violative of the fundamental rights 
conferred by Articles 25 and 29 of the Constitution , Mr. Rameshwar Dial, how 
cver, agreed that in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in Jamuna 
Prasad Mukhariya s case to which reference has already been made, there is 
no room for argument left now on the aforesaid question . Mr. Rameshwar Dial 
has laid a good deal of cmphasis on the Tribunal allowing and admitting irre 
levant and inadmissible evidence which according to him has caused prejudice 
to the case of the first respondent. As has been mentioned at a previous state , 
according to Mr. Rameshwar Dial particulars in respect of corrurt practices 
were not given relating to the use of the " Om Flag " in the processions or the 
raising of the slogans as also the distribution of pamphlets like Exhibit P . 11 
and yet the Tribunal allowed the evidence to be led with regard to these 
matter . Our attention has been invited to the observations in Maharaja Sris 
Chandra Nandy v . Rakhalananda Thakur ( A . I. R . 1941 P . C . 16 ) where in a note 
of caution was sounded against exercising a dispensing power in the matter 
of admission of evidence which was not admissible under the statue. This 
objection has already been dealt with and we have avoided taking into consi 
deration any cvidence which was neither relevant nor admissible under the 
Evidence Act. It may be mentioned once again that no objection was taken 
by the first respondent or his counsel to the admission of certain evidence to 
which objection has been taken before us. It has not been shown that any 
prejudice was caused to him owing to that cvidence having been admitted on 
matters of which proper particulars had not been given . Indeed . It arpears 
that he was quite alive to the same and he even attempted to produce evidence 
in rebuttal. The objection raised , therefore , is of no consequence . 


It has next been contended that the appcllant s affidavit relating to allega 
tions of corrupt practices accompanying the petition did not comply with the 
rroviso to section 83 ( i ) and the petition was liable to be dismissed and the 
allegations struck out for non - compliance with that proviso . The proviso is to 
the cfact that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice , the petition 
shall also b : accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of 
the allegation of such corrupt prartire and the particulars therrof. It is true 
1h . t the affidavit which accompanied the petition was not strictly according 


2428 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1969/SRAVANA 12 , 1886 


(PART II 


to the prescribed form , The Tribunal disposed of this matter by an order dated 
16th August 1962. According to that order , the affidavit which has been filed 
along with the petition though not in the prescribed form as also the averments 
in the petition and no illegality had been committed . In other words , the 
affidavit which had been filed was considered to be sufficient to satisfy the 
requirement of the proviso in question , Against this order , a petition under 
Articles 226 and 227 was brought to this Court ( Civil Writ No. 1359 of 1962 ) 
which was disposed of by Tek Chand J . on 3rd October 1962. He, however , 
declined to interfere on the ground that the petition was pre - premature and 
mis - conceived and that there was a right of appeal to this Court from the order 
of the Election Tribunal. Mr. Rameshwar Dial contends that non -compliance 
with the proviso would entail the dismissal of the petition . Section 85 , how 
ever , provides that if the provisions of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 
have not been complied with , the Election Commission shall dismiss the poti 
tion . This shows that non -compliance with the provisions contained in section 
83 cannot be a ground for dismissal of the petition by the Election Commission . 
Section 90 ( 3 ) is to the effect that the Tribunal shall dismiss an election petition 
which does not comply with the provisions of section 81 or section 82 notwith 
standing that it has not been dismissed by the Election Commission under sec 
tion 85 . As non - compliance with the provisions of section 83 is not fatal to 
the petition , we are of the view that the requirements of the proviso are merely 
directory and not mandatory . In Jagan Nath v . Jaswant Singh ( 9 EL . R . 231 ) 
the Supreme Court had to consider whether the provision contained in section 
82 of the Representation of People Art , 1951, that all duly nominated candi 
dates shall be joined as parties to an election petition was directory or man 
datory . It was held according to the provisions as they then stood that failure 
to implead a candidate who had withdrawn his candidature was not a fatal defect 
as the provision contained in section 82 was only directory and not mandatory . 
We cannot consequently hold that the petition was liable to be dismissed or the 
allegations with regard to corrupt practices struck off for want of strict com 
pliance with the requirements of the proviso to section 83 of the Act, 2 . g ., failure 
to file the affidavit in the prescribed form . 

Lastly , it was contended that the Tribunal should have allowed the entire costs 
incurred by the first 1 - spondent as required by the proviso to section 120 ( i) . It 
is pointed out that the Tribunal allowed a sum of Rs. 1, 500 / - only whereas a sum 
of Rs. 6 ,626 / - was assesed as the total amount of costs incurred by the first 
respondent. As we are allowing the appeal and the petition is going to succeed , 
this question does not call for any decision . 

In the result, it must be held that the appellant has been successful in proving 
that corrupt practices under section 123 ( 3 ) have been committed by the Arst 
respondent or by some of the agents and supporters (as per finding given ) with 
his consent by making use of and appeal to a religious symbol, namely , the " Om 
Flag " for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of the first respondent 
and by appealing to thc clcctors to vote for the first respondent on the ground 
of his language or to refrain from voting for the appellant on the same ground 
and that all the other alleged corrupt practice have not been established . The 
appeal is consequently allowed and the election of first respondent is hereby 
declared to be void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act . 

The cross -ohjection , however , fail and are dismissed . 

As only two of the charges of corrupt practice have been established and the 
other have not been proved , we leave the parties to hear their own costs in 
this Court in both the appeal and the cross - objections throughout. 

Sd./- A . N . GROVER, 

Judge 
Sd ./ - S . S DOUAT, 

,711dge , 
The 31st May 1963. 
Words; 27 , 950 . 
Fecs : Rs. 70 . 00 . 

True Copy 

Sd / - * * 
Supervisor Copy Branch 
( To be referred to the Reporter .) 

S7. / - * * 

23 - 6 - 1963 
The Seal of the High Court of Punjah . 

[No. 82 / 42 /C2 . 


SEC. 9(U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA AUGUST 3 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2429 


New Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S 0 . 2119 - It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualificanctirder cliure 
( c) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, incurred by the person whose fire 
and address are given below , has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clause and section of the said Act — 


SCHEDULE 


Name and address of the 
disqualificd candidate 


Serial No and name of 

Constitucncy 


Commissich s notificat cr No. 

and detc under which 
disqualified 


Shri Balkrishan Vishwanath 68 Tarrukhabad 

Keskar, 3 -Kushak Road , 
New Delhi 


UP-HP/68 63 - Byc (3 ) dated 

the 4th July, 1963 


[No. UP _ FP /68/63- - Bye ( ) 119323 ). 

By Order 
V RAGHAVAN Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 25th July 1963 
S . O . 2120 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( C ) of Schedule I 
annexed to the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No 15 / 13 / 59- ( V ) - P IV 
dated the 13th July 1962 (GSR No. 991, published in the Gazette of India Part II, 
Section sub section ( 11 ) dated the 28th July 1962 ) the Central Government is 
pleased to specify that Shri Karansinhji son of late Ranaji Shri Hariginhji Ex Ruier 
of Wav , for the purpose of that entry and directs that the exemption shall be 
valid in respect of one 9 mm Mauzer rifle SB BL and one 12 bore DBBL Gun 
only 

[ No 16 / 12 /63-PIV .) 
LI PARIJA , Dy Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S . O . 2121 — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 126X , read with sub 
rule ( 3 ) , of iule 126C of the Defence of India Rulcs 1962, thi Cntral Govern 
ment hereby specifies the 31st day of August, 1963 as the date after the expiry 
of which every person who makes manufactures or scis any primary gold shall 
put a stamp on each piece of primary gold 
(1 ) certifying thc purity of gold contained in such primary gold and the date . 

of making or manufacturing thereof, and 
( 11 ) containing descriptive and other particulars which may cnable the 
Identification of the maker or manufacture of such yilmary grid 

[No F 1 / 62 / 63 -GC )/ 
RK SESHADRI, Dy Seçy . 


2430 


(Department of teonomie Atairs ) 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1963 
of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , 35 on the 19th Jul 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


S . O . 2122 . - Statement 


1963 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST9,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


- 


LIABILITIES 

Rs. ASSETS 

Rs. 
Capital paid up 

5 ,00 ,00 ,000 Notes 
. 

19, 22 . 97, 000 
. 

. 
Rupee Coin 

2 , 28 ,000 
Reserye Fund 80,00 ,00 , 000 Small Coin 

243 ,000 
National Agricultural Credit 
National Agricultural Credit 

(Long Term Operations ) Fund 
(1 .ong Term Operations) Fund . . 73 ,00,00 ,000 

( a ) Loans and Advances to : 
1 State Governments 

27, 16 ,75 ,000 
National Agricultural Credit ( i ) State Co -operative Baoks . 

10 , 52 ,60 ,000 
( Stabilisation ) Fuod . . . , 8 ,00 ,00 ,000 ( in Central Land Mortgage Banks . 
( 5 ) lavestment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentu 

3,50,57 ,000 
Depusits : 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 
( a ) Government 

Loans and Advances to State Co - operative Banks . . 
O Central Government . 

54 . 95 .33. 000 Bills purchased and Discounted : 
(M ) State Governments . . , 15 ,82 ,48 ,000 

( a ) Internal , . . . 

O External 
(6 ) Banks (c ) Goverment Treasury Bills 

55 ,51,47 ,000 
Balances Held Abroad * 

6 . 28 ,59 ,000 
Scheduled Banks 

109,51, 25 , 000 
( ü ) State Co -operative Banks 2 .51,55, 000 Loans and Advances to Governments * * 

23 ,66,82,000 
(1 ) Other Banks 

4 , 15 ,000 Loans and Advances to : 
1) Scheduled Bankst 

n . 

. 

47, 10 , 000 
(0 ) Others 207 ,04,62 .000 (* ) State Co -operative Bankstt 

I11,07 ,46 ,000 
( i ) Others 

1 -43, 80 , 000 
Bills Payable 31, 18 ,29 .000 Investments 

318 , 16 , 56 , 000 
Other Liabilities 17, 39 ,75 ,000 Other Assets 

27 , 38 ,07 , 000 
Rupees 604, 4747,000 

Ropers . 

601,47 , 17 ,000 
* Includes Cash and Short -term Securities, 
* * Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments . 

Includes Rs. 9 ,00 , 003 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 17 (4 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
tt Excluding Loans and A Ivances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuod and the National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 24th day of July , 1963. 


- 


.. 


. 


..... 


Other Liabilities 


: : : : 


[PARTII 


Ao Ascount pursuant to the Reserve Bank of Lodia Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 19th day of July 1963 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


SEC.31117] 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

mnt 
Notes in circulation 
Tou Notto insured 


19 , 22,97,000 
2737 , 58 ,20 ,000 


Gold Coin and Bulion : 

( 2 ) Held in India 
(6 ) Held outside India 


117 ,76,10 , 000 


2256 ,81, 17 ,000 


95, 26 , 14, 000 


Foreign Securities 

TOTAL , 
Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bulls of Exchange and other com 

mercial paper 


213 ,02, 24 ,000 
117 ,48 , 34 ,000 
1926 ,30 ,59 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIB 


2256 , 81 ,17 , 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


. 


. 


2256 ,81 , 17,200 


Deted th : 24 day of July , 1963 . 


P . C . BHATTACHARYYA, 

Governor 


THEGIZETIEOFINDIA:AUGUST9,1963/SRAVANA12,1883 


[No. P . 3 (2)-BC,63.] 
A . Baksi , Jt. Sicy . 


2431 


2432 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART II 


OFFICE OF THB ASSISTANT COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL OF EXCISE POONA 


NOTICE 

Poona , the 9th July 1963 
S . O .2123 - Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were seized by the 
398 Gillette Razor Sets. Mode in i Deputy Superintendent, Central Excise , Preventie, 

England contained in three hand - ) Hary , Poona at the Poong Railway Station on the 16th 
bags and one yuit case 

March 1963 were imported into India in contravention 
of Government of India , Ministry of Commerce and Industry Import Trade Control Order 
No. 17 / 55 dated 7th December , 1955 19gued under Section 3 of the Import and Exports Control 
Act , 1947 read with Secs II and III of the Customs Act, 1962 

2 . Now , therefore , any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show causc 10 the 
Assistant Collector of Central Fxcise , Poona I why the above mentioned goods should not be con 
fiscated under Section all of the Customs Act , 1962 and why a penalty should not be imposed 
upon him under the same Section , 

3 . ISguch an owner fails to turn up to claim the above -mentioned unclaimed goods or to show 
cause against the action proposcd to be taken within 30 days from the publication of this notice 
in the Government of India Gazette , the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and the case 
will be decided accordingly . 


Signature of Reserve Bank is only required if the amount is more than £ 5 . 
Date : 

Signature of Reserve Bank 


Totalamount held in Notes of the Bank of England 


- 


Ainowit 
Changed 


Date 


Name of bank or Money Changer 

wlicre changed 


Running 
total of 
notey held 


Running 
balance 


Initials 
of Bank or 
Money 
changer 


N.B – Paseret on pereht am runt 


N . B – Passengers will please note that Notes of the Bank of England cannot be changed 

except on presentation of this form to a Bank or Money Changer who will enter 
into details of the am junts changed and then retuill it to the passenger 

[No VIII ( Cux) 10 27 /631 

P . B GIIOSH , 


Assistant Collector 


COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA & ORISSA , CALCUTTA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Calcutta , the 10th May 1963 
S . O . 2124 , — In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rule 5 of the Central 
Exclse Rules , 1944 I hereby make the following amendments to the Collectorate 
Notification No 1 / 1963 dated 8th January 1963, namely 
( 1 ) Substitute the following for the existing entry " 9AZZZ " and the restric 

tions thereunder appearing in columns ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) at Serial No 1 of 

the Table of the above notification , namely 
" Col 3 

Col 4 
96ZZZ (111) 


188C, 3 (ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2433 


( il) Substitute the following for the existing entries in columns ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) 

respectively at Serial No . 3 of the Table of the above notification , 
namely — 


* Col. 3. 


Col. 4 . 


96ZZZ (I ), ( ii) and ( iv ) . 


The power to demand duty, confiscato 
the goods and to impose penalty shall 
be exercised by the Adjudicating 
Omcers in accordance with their limits 
of powers ." 


[No. 3 / 1903.) 
Calcutta , the 8th June 1963 
8 . 0 . 2125 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by rules 15 and 16 of 
Central Excise Rules , 1944 read with rule 233 ibid , I hereby make the following 
amendments to Collectorate Notification No. 6 / 1958 dated 4th April 1958 , namely -- 

In the Schedule appended to the above Notification , the following shall be substi. 
tuted against Serial No. 1 under State of Orissa , namely : 
1 . Koraput: 
( 1) Rayagada Şub -Division - The whole of the Sub -Division less Police Station 

of Rayagada and Kalyan - Singpur, 
( ii ) Gunpur Sub -Division — The whole Sub - Division less Bissem Cuttack P . S . 

and Ambadola P . S . 
(ili) Koráput Sub -Division — The whole Sub -Division less Narayanpatnam P .S . 
( iv ) Nowrangpur Sub -Division - The whole Sub -Division , 
( v ) Malkangiri Sub - Division - The whole Sub - Division , 

[ No. 4 / 1963.) 


R . PRASAD , Collector. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1963 
S . O . 2126 , — In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the Sch - dule annexed to its notifica 
tion $ . O . 1390 (No. 19 - Incomc- tax, dated 4th May 1962 ) , namely : 

In the said Schedule, for the existing cntries in Col. 2 against A Range, 
Bangulore , the following cntries shall be substituted , namely : 

1 , Bangalore City Circle I. 
2 . Rural Circle, Bangalore . 
3 . Kolar Circle . 
4 . Estate Duty - cum -Income-tax Circle , Bangalore. 
5 . Special Survey Circle , Bangalore. 

EXPLANATORY NOTE 
The amendments have become necessary on account of the creation of a 
Special Survey Circle with Headquarters at Bangalore in the charge of the 
Commissioner of Incomc- tax , Bangalore . 

( The above note does not form a part af the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory. ) 

[ No. 43 ( F . No, 50 / 13 /62- IT ) . ) 


2434 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1 :63 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART IL 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1963 
S . O . 2127 --- In exercise of the powers conferred hy sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
121 of the Income Tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that in its Notification No. 20 , dated the 30th April 1963 published 
as S . O . 1293 on pages 1454 — 57 in Part II Section 3 ( ii ) of the Gazette of India 
dated the 11th May 1963 , against Serial No. 5 -Commissioner oť Income- tax , 
Bombay City II Charge, ( i ) item No. ( 15 ) Special Survey Circle III shall be 
deleted and the subsequent items re-numbered as (15 ) , ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) and ( il ) 
item No. 13 will be substituted by the following : - 
" 13 . Bombay Suburban District (East ) and 
Bombay Suburban District (West)." 

[No. 41 ( F . No. 55 / 1 /62 - IT ). ] 
J. RAMA IYER , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING & REHABILITATION 

( Department of Rehabilitation ) 
( Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd July 1963 
S . O . 2128 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub -Section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 
1954 , (No. 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints for the States of 
Maharashtra , Gujrat , Andhra Pradesh , Madras , Mysore and Kerala , Shri C . P . Shah 
Assistant Settlement Officer , in the office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , 
Bombay as Managing Officer for the custody , management and disposal of Com 
pensation Pool with effect from the date he took over charge of his office . 

[No. 8 (245 ) /62 -ARG .) 
New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2129 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1) of Section 8 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints for the States of Maharashtra , Gujrat , Andhra Pradesh , 
Madras , Mysore and Kerala , Shri C . P . Shah , Assistant Settlement Officer in the 
office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Bombay as Assistant Custodian 
for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on Custodian by or under the 
gald Act with effect from the date he took over charge of his office . 

[No. 8 ( 245 ) /62- ARG . ) 

KANWAR BAHADUR , 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & Ex-Offcio Dy. Secy . 

(Dopartment of Rehabilitation ) 
Ofice of the Chief Settlement Commissioner 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2130 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , I, N . P . Dube, Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby delegate my 
powers under sub - section (25 of Section 30 of the said Act to all Deputy Com 
missioners and Additional Deputy Commissioners in Punjab , who have been ap 
pointed as Additional Settlement Commissioners vide Notifcation Nos . 1 ( 7 ) (30 ) / 674 
SIII and 3 (69 ) / L & R / 62 , dated the 9th August , 1957 and the 11th January , 1983 
respectively in so far as such orders relate to the recovery of public dues as 
defined in rule 7 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilſtation ) Rules , 
1955 . 

( 3 (69 ) (L & R / 82 . ) 

N . P . DUBE , 
Chlef Settlement Commissioner : 


Sec. 3(ü)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST $, 1963 / SRAYANA 12, 1885 


2435 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 


(Omce of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 


S . O . 2131, Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is neces 
$ 1 lo acquire the evacuee properties specified in the schedule hereto annexed in 
tr States of Gujarat, Maharashtra , Andhra Pradesh , Madras , Mysore and Kerala 

public purpose being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such persons, 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) it is 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires 
the cvacuce properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


A SCHEDULE 


All properties in the States of Gujarat , Maharashtra , Andhra Pradesh , Madras , 
Mysore and Kerala which have vested in the Custodian under section 11 of the 
Evacuec Interest (Separation ) Act, 1951, as a result of adjudication by the Compe 
tent Officers under the provisions of the said Act upto 30th June 1963, and in respect 
of whith no appeals have been filed and if Aled , have been rejected by the Appellate 
Oficer . 

[No. 1 ( 27 ) / Comp. & Prop / 61. ] 


S . O . 2132. - Whereas the Central Government is or the opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire the evacuec properties specified in the schedule hereto annexed in 
the State of U . P . for a public purpose being a purpose connected with the relief 
and r abilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to such 
persons. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powery conferred by Section 12 of the Displac 
ed Prisons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) it is notified 
that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires the 
evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hcreto annexed . 


A SCHEDULE 


All properties in the State of U . P . which have vested in the Custodian under 
section 11 of the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act , 1951, as a result of adjudica 
tion by the Competent Omcers under the provisions of the said Act upto 30th June 
196 ; and in respect of which no appeals have been Aled and if Alęd , have been 
rejected by the Appellate Officers . 

[No, 2 (21 ) / Com . & Prop / 01. ] 


8 . O . 2133. -— -Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed in 
the State of Punjab for a public purpose being a purpose connected with the relief 
8 : rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensation to 
Bucb persons. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 12 of the Dis 
pliced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , it is 
notified that the Central Government has d - cided to acquire and hereby acquires 
the evacuce properties specified in the Schedulc hereto annexed , 


THE SCHEDULE 


All properties in the State of Punjab which have vested in the Custodian under 
Section 11 of the Evacuee Interest (Separation ) Act , 1951, as a result of adjudication 
by the Competent Officers under the provisions of the said Act upto 30th June 1963 
and in respect of which no appeals have been filed , and it Aled have been rejected 
Fiy the Appellate Officer (Omcers ) concerned . 

[ No. 16 ( 18 ) / 58 -Prop. II. Comp . ) 


2436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ALGUST 3 , 1963, $RAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART IL 


S . O . 2134 . — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the schedule hereto annexed in 
the State of Rajasthan for a public purpose being a purpose connected with the 
relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compensa 
tion to such personş. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis 
placed Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954) , it is 
notifed that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hercto annexed . 

A SCHEDULE 
All properties in the state of Rajasthan which have vested in the Custodian 
under section 11 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) Act, 1951 , as a result of 
adjudication by the Competent Officer under the provisions of the said Açt upto 
30th June 1963 and in respect of which no appeals have been filed and if fled , 
have been rejected by the Appellate Officer . 

[No. 22 ( 13 ) / Comp.& Prop / 61. } 


S . O . 2135 , – Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is neceg 
sary to acquire the evacuee properties specified in the schedule hereto annexed in 
the States of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh , Bihar and Orissa for a public purpose being a 
purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, Including 
payment of compensation to such persons. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dig 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) It is noti 
fied that the Central Government has decided to acquire and hereby acquires the 
evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 

A SCHEDULE 
All properties in the States of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh , Bihar and Orissa which 
have vested in the Custodian under Section 11 of the Evacuee Interest ( Separation ) 
Act , 1951, as a result of adjudication by the Competent Officer under the provisions 
of the said Act upto 30th June 1963 and in respect of which no appeals have been 
Aled and if fled have been rejected by the Appellate Officer . 

[No . 22 ( 14 ) / Comp . & Prop ./ 61. B 

M . J . SRIVASTAVA , 
Settlement Commissioner & E .c -Oficio , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 
S . O . 2136 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( f ) of section 3 
of the Dentists Act, 1948 ( 16 of 1948 ) , the Central Government. hereby renomi 
nates Dr. K . Azuma, F . I. C . D ., 3 / 4 , Mount Road , Madras, a dentist registered 
in part B of the Madras Dentists Register as a Member of the Dental Council 
of India with effect from the 2nd September, 1963 . 

[No. F . 3 -2 / 62 -MPT. ) 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 
S .O . 2137 . - Whereas the Government of India in the Ministry of Health 
has , by notification No. 17 - 2 / 59 -MI, dated the 1st April, 1960 , made in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indiarr Medical 
Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical qualification M . D : 
granted by the University of Toronto, Canada for the purposes of the said 
Act ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to gub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956 ( 102 of 1958 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies the period of two years with effect 
from the date of this Order or so long as Dr , Ed . Edmund who possesses the 
said qualification , continues to work with the Kodaikanal School, Kodaikanal. 
South India , to which he is attached for the time being for the purposes of 
teaching, research or charitable work , whichever is shorter , as the period to 
which the medical practice of the said Dr. Ed . Edmund shall be limited . 

[No. F . 18 - 15 / 63 -ML ) 
B E L BHARADWAJ, Under . Secy ;. 


SEC. $(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2437 


MINISTRY OF MINES & FUEL 

New Delhi, the 22nd July 1963 
S . O . 2138 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery 
in Bihar State to the Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , a pipeline 
should be laid by the Indian Refineries Limited and that for the purpose of laying 
such pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in 
the Schedule annexed hereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1982 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date 
of this notification object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority Special Land Acquisition Officer, C / o . Indian Refineries 
Limited , Hathidah ( Patna ) . Every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practi 
tioner. 


SCHEDULE 


State - -BIHAR District - MONGHYR 


Thana - LAKHISARAI, 


77 


Village with Thana No. Survey No. Extent in Village with Thana No. Survey No. Extent in 
Acre . 

Acre . 
Makhdumnpur No.139 

ISI 0 . 090 Amahara No. 140 , - contd . 662 0 . 095 
150 0 . 230 

661 O OIO 
153 0 . 030 

664 0 . 280 
154 O 020 

O 100 
156 0 : 050 

O IIO 
157 O : 150 

Oozo 
IS8 0 . 220 

0 . 010 
159 0 . 260 

45 0 .020 
160 0 . 100 

I21 0 :00 
161 O 080 

0 . 085 
162 O : 090 
167 0 . 280 Balgudar No. 134 . 

333 0 : 465 
168 0 . 160 

335 0 . 035 
164 0 : 410 

334 0 . 200 
174 0 . 050 

337 o ogo 
175 0 . 060 

0 095 
176 0 . 070 

339 

0 . 007 
177 O ΟΙΟ 

340 

0 .020 
178 0 060 

341 0215 
179 0 . 360 
184 ( 040 

O 160 
183 0 : 130 

347 0185 
O 050 
0 . 007 

0 . 305 

0 . 180 
Amaharu No. 140 0 145 

0 050 
0 . 140 

0 . 568 
0 : 170 

0 . 060 
0 160 

o ogo 
0 . 295 

361 0 .090 
0155 

0 :455 
0 . 020 

0 . 040 
0 . 2 
o oos 
O 085 
0185 

0 . 040 
0 .085 

405 Oo8o 
O ‘ 020 
0370 ChoukiNo. 141. 

103 O 015 
O 010 

0 . 070 
607 0 . 020 | 

86 0 068 


150 


0 . 180 


نان 

باندنیانباناماندهاندیانهیابینیابه 


404 


92 


2438 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART JI 


85 


نه همه 


207 


205 


0 . 125 


968 


972 


998 


Villag : with thana No . Survey No . Extent in Village with Thana No, Survey No . Extent in 

Acre , 

(Plot No.) Acre , 
Chouki NO. 141 - 01d . 

0 . 020 English No , 186 – contd . 

2318 

0 . 020 
III 0 340 

2308 0 . 060 
IIZ 0 140 

2306 0 . 120 
O 130 

2305 0 . 060 
Diodo 

2303 0 .025 
O ITO 

2060 OIIO 
116 o 002 

2343 

0 .080 
190 0 . 150 

2342 0 . 140 
206 0 182 

2339 0 . 140 
0 240 

2340 0 . 150 
208 0 020 

1902 

0 . 095 
O 050 

2059 
209 0 :420 

4194 0 .060 
221 0 . 210 

1964 0 . 065 
214 O 230 

1953 0 . 160 
220 0 . 100 

1927 0 . 055 
215 O 10o 

1920 0 . 007 
969 O 150 

I 226 0 . 225 
O NIS 

1188 0 . 020 
967 0 120 

1906 0 . 020 
0 : 130 

1905 0 . 010 
983 0 : 090 

1901 0 170 
991 0 : 0 $ 

2326 0 . 130 
992 O 040 

2327 0 . 155 
993 0 . 040 

2329 0 . 120 
981 0 050 

2328 0 .050 
995 0 . 355 

1582 O oso 
IOOI O 305 

2347 

0 . 075 
0 040 

2345 0 . 120 
999 0 . 200 

2344 0 . 090 
IOIO O 015 

1903 0 . 070 
ΙΟΙΙ 0 : 240 

2334 

0 . 065 
I012 0 . 263 
1013 0 . 350 Indupur No. 184 

372 0 . 005 
1030 0 . 003 

ONIO 
1031 O IIO 

363 0 . 080 
1032 O OIS 

0 .060 
1034 0 210 

O 080 
1035 0 . 227 

0 . 010 
1038 O 010 

0 . 180 
1040 0 . 340 

0 . 080 
1039 0 .080 

0 . 070 
1027 0 . 270 

0 . 020 
1026 O 310 

O 065 
1065 O 030 

0 . 020 
1066 O 445 

0 . 060 
1068 O SIS 

0 . 100 
1069 p 200 

0 . 300 
85 0 . 007 

935 0 . 080 
O 002 
216 O 015 Barhiya No. 187 

2395 

0 . 130 
IO25 ооо 

2397 0 . 050 
106 0 280 

2398 0 - 060 
108 0 : 250 

2401 0 . 270 
109 0 290 

0 . 120 
973 0410 

2409 0 . 060 
107 0185 

2404 0 .070 
230 O 290 

2406 0 . 260 
IIO O 100 

2372 

0 -090 
1006 0 . 100 

2367 

0 . 090 

2365 0 . 070 
Gangta N ) , 142 

730 0 . 160 

2359 0 .005 
English No. 186 2330 0 . 050 

2360 0 . 005 
2314 0 . 070 

2358 0 . 050 
2313 0 . 095 

2357 0 . 060 
2316 100 

2356 0 .005 
2375 0 . 025 


355 


immenen 
mammamnonnero 


ليا 
برابر 
بيا 


nouaHN 


105 


2402 


a 


271 


Sec . ) (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : AUGUST 9, 1969 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2430 


Village with thana No. 


Survey 

No. 
(Plot No. ) 


Extent 
in acre 


Survey 
Village with Thana No. No. 

(Plot No.) 


Extent 
In acre 


Barhiya No. 187 - contd . 


Gargasarai No. 1 82 – conid . 


10 


O IIO 
0 . 055 
0 . 055 


51 


C 


0 . 045 


CANE 


0 . 050 
0 . 050 
0 . 130 
0 . 020 
0 . 060 
0 . 060 
0 . 030 
0 . 040 
0 . 050 
0 :040 
O 050 
0 . 050 
0 .070 
O 005 


CC 


2318 
2308 
2297 
2295 
2352 
2351 
2347 
2344 
2316 
2345 
2341 
2339 
2340 
2338 
2337 
2376 
2330 
2329 
2326 
2324 
2319 
2316 
2307 
2296 
2208 
2 .118 
2317 
25II 
2348 


070 


IIO 
122 
III 


O 045 
O ooo 
O : 6180 
0070 
0 .024 
0 . 05 
0 : 08 
0010 


= 
= ربماماراخ 

= 
= 
= 


WOON 


= 


u 


= 
= 


0 : 160 
O 005 
O : C80 
1) 110 
0 :03 : 


Upraul No. 183 . 


ا 
ا 
ا 
ا 
ا 
ا 
ا 
لا 
لا 
ل 


19 
192 
190 
189 
188 
185 
186 
128 
130 
131 
135 
132 
133 
IÓ ! 
159 


O 270 

TOO 
0 . 040 
0 . 040 
0 .045 
DIOS 
OIIO 
0 . 105 
0 .085 

170 

125 
O 180 
0 . 230 
0 . 005 
O 130 
0 .040 
O . 135 
0 . 007 
боҙо 
0 . 100 
0 . 160 
0 . 050 
0 : 093 
0 . 002 
0 . 045 
O 010 


0 .030 
0 . 020 
0 . 060 
O 015 
0 . 020 
0 . 175 
0 . 095 
0 .050 
0 .055 
0 .080 
0 . 012 
0 . 210 
0 .010 
0 .090 
0 : 170 
0 . 125 
0 .040 
0 . 003 
0 . 065 
0 .030 
0 .050 
0 . 100 
0 .080 
O 250 
0 . 040 
O 120 
O 070 
0 . 060 
0 : 070 
0 . 153 
0 . 130 
0 . 09c 
0 .030 
0 . 003 
O 025 
0 . 075 
0 . 098 
O205 
0 . 370 
O OIS 
0 . 047 
0 .075 
0 . 060 
0 . 035 
O 012 
0 . 004 
0 .003 
0 . 390 
0 . 010 
O 097 
OIIO 
0 .030 
0 .085 
0 . 135 
0 . 085 
0 .010 
0 .010 
0 . 130 
0 . 110 
O 140 
0 . 135 
O 105 


2740 
2739 
2737 
2736 
2775 
2772 
2765 
2764 
2763 
2762 
2761 
162 
378 
2163 
2760 


153 


I52 
137 
142 
143 
ISI 
ISO 
145 
149 


355 


139 


371 


Barhiya No. 187 


2785 
2787 


0 .005 
0 . 005 


375 
376 


Gingasarai No. 182 


, 


ہمبیان 


aou 


0 . 365 

080 
0030 
0 . 025 
0 . 017 
0 : 075 


373 
374 
377 
2090 
2091 
2093 


27 


29 


2440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 5, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART II 


Survey 
Village with thana No. No . 

( Plot No.) 


Extent 
in acie 


Village with than a No . 


Survey Extent 

No. in acre 
(Plot No.) 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


Gangasarai No. 182 - Conid . 


Dumari No. 161- - contd . 


267 


263 
262 


279 


281 
280 
282 


285 


350 
293 
294 


2094 
2095 
2099 
2088 
2087 
2100 
2101 
2086 
2085 
2159 
2160 
2161 
2168 
2167 
2166 
2162 
2164 
2205 
2204 
2201 
2202 
2200 
2192 
2190 
2191 


0 .008 
0 170 
O 015 
0 . 053 
O 055 
0 008 
0 . 065 
0 075 
O 020 
0 . 045 
o ogo 
0 . 06 % 
0 063 
0 035 
0 . 045 
0 110 


297 


298 


299 
300 
303 


0133 


0 . 085 


331 


0 . 100 
0 . 145 
0 . 080 
0 . 010 
O 100 
0 . 045 
0 . 002 
OIIO 
0 . 190 
0 .085 
0 . 070 
0 . 040 
0 . 060 
0 . 060 
0 .075 
0 . 030 
0 .050 
0 . 275 
0 . 062 
0 .030 
0 . 010 
0 . 045 
0 . 2101 
0 . 045 ) 
0 . 097 
0 . 095 
O 170 
0 . 070 
0 . 040 
0 : 105 
0 . 090 
0 . 010 
0 . 010 
0 . 045 
0 . 075 
0 : 095 
0 . 100 
0 . 010 
0 . 045 
0 . 060 
0275 
0 . 010 
0 . 095 
0 . 080 


328 


325 
324 
323 


2188 


بابلباندبه 


2223 


318 


2224 


312 
911 


2187 
2704 
2703 
2701 
2700 
2702 
2699 
2698 
2726 
2713 


2714 


NNNNNN 


2727 
2723 


2735 


0 025 
0 . 145 
o ogo 
0 070 
0 .035 
0 : 035 
0 . 035 
O 060 
0 . 020 
0 . 170 
0 020 
0 . 008 
O 100 
0 :055 
0 - 040 
O 155 
0 . 030 
0 . 060 
0 . 085 
O 035 
0 . 020 
O 030 
O ‘010 
0125 
O Ozco 
0 . 045 
O 035 
0 045 
O oos 
0 . 085 
0 : 08 
0 . 055 
0 085 
0 . 008 
0 . 085 
O 030 
0 - 030 
0 .040 
0 . 055 
0 . 045 
0 : 065 
0 045 
O oss 
0 * 108 
o ogo 
0 075 
0 .020 


2738 
136 


2256 
2255 
2254 
2229 
2230 
2231 
2232 
2233 
2236 
2234 
2237 
2225 
2224 
2223 
2222 
2221 
2220 
2219 
2218 
2213 
2211 
2341 
2342 
2343 
2260 
2206 
2205 
2204 
2203 
2201 


DumariNo. 161 


152 
375 
226 
227 
228 
234 
229 
233 
235 
236 
246 
247 
248 
245 


O 545 
0 . 440 
0 . 135 
O 035 
O Oss 
0 . 065 
0 . 005 
O 005 
0 * 100 
O 060 
O 100 
0 . 060 
0 030 
0 - 035 
0 0201 
0 055 
0 - 045 
0 . 050 
0 : 06 
0 .020 


NN 


2200 


SI 


2199 


252 


270 


2198 
2197 
2140 


269 


Sec, 3 (ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963/SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2441 


Village with thanu No. 


Survey No. 
(Plot No.) 


Extent Village with thana No. Survey No. Exient 
8 (Acre ) 

(Plot No.) in (Acre ) 


Dumari No. IỚI 


2196 
2195 
2194 
2192 
2191 
2190 
2189 


HVONR 


2188 


uur 


2187 
2186 
2141 
2144 
2145 
2176 
2175 
2169 
2168 
2154 
2153 
2151 


SI6 


SIS 


514 


2148 


513 


2150 


512 


21 
22 


4478 


4481 
4482 
4484 


28 


4483 


0 030 Juas No. 136 
0 . 030 
0 :045 
0 . 055 
O 075 
0 085 
0 . 040 
O 018 
0 .020 
0 . 265 
0 . 015 
0 . 003 
0 : 008 
0 . 200 
0 125 
0 . 085 
0 . 085 
0 . 095 
O TIS 
0 095 
0 . 005 
0 . 035 
0 . 050 
0 . 045 
O 030 
0 : 125 
0 . 085 
O 065 
0 . 020 
0 . 045 
0 . 030 
0 : 030 
0 - 030 
0 . 045 
0 . 045 
0 075 
0 070 
0 . 050 
0 . 045 
0 . 085 
0 065 
O 065 
0 .015 
0 . 065 
0 . 325 
O 105 
0 : 065 
0400 
0 . 010 
0 . 030 
0 . 085 


SII 


4485 
4486 
4488 


510 


500 


4489 
4490 


4491 
4492 
4493 
4511 
4576 


0 . 227 
0 . 102 
0 040 
0 : 085 
0 . 003 
0 . 005 
0 : 030 
0 . 080 
0 . 085 
0 .020 
0 .029 
0 . 060 
0 . 100 
0 - 100 
0 : 07a 
0 .007 
0 .005 
0 . 005 
0 .050 
0 . 055 
0 . 010 
0 .012 
0 .070 . 
0 080 
0 . 060 

* 017 
0 035 
O 035 
0 . 005 
0 .020 
0 .080 
0 025 
0 175 
0 . 105 
0 . 025 
0 . 005 
0 120 
0 120 
0 . 080 
o ogo 
O Ido 
ONIO 
0 . 105 
0 070 
0 . 040 
0 - 130 
O 030 
o 095 
0 .090 
0 . 090 . 
O Oso 
0 .040 
0 . 015 
0 . 150 
0 . 040 
O 120 
0 . 065 
0 .070 
0 . 075 
0 .070 
0 : 040 
0 . 085 
0 . 070 
0 055 
0 . 010 ) 


68 


12 


4517 


4518 
4520 
4521 


4526 


4528 


4527 


4542 


4543 


4556 


2149 
4555 
4647 
163 


II4 
I15 
II6 
117 
I21 
I20 
122 
123 
501 
124 
127 
146 
128 
I29 
I30 
431 
432 
433 


Paharpur No. 191 


857 


858 


859 


860 
861 


0 .050 
0 .050 
0190 
0 . 010 
0 : 170 
0 . 030 
0 120 
0 030 
O 020 
0 190 
0 . 190 
0 . 140 


868 
869 


1961 
497 


O 


2,412 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART I 


504 


439 


20 


Village with Thana No. Survey No. Extent in age with thana No. Survey No . Extent 
vot No in Acre 

( Plot No .) in acre 
Juas No. 136 

437 0 .050 Juas No. 136 . 

O 005 
O I , 

0 - 030 
496 

0 030 
440 0 . 105 Barhiya English No.137 

0 075 
442 0 :040 

0 . 785 
443 0 :055 

0 .027 
495 0 -030 

0 .045 
494 O 015 

O 265 
444 0 . 105 

0 . 160 
445 0 .050 

O 115 
Oooos 
507 O ‘ 002 

(No. 31 / 33 /63 -ONG -I.) 


508 


S . O . 2139 . — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery 
in Bihar State to the lialdia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal Ştate , a pipeline 
should be laid by the Indian Refineries Limited and that for the purpose of laving 
such pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in 
the Schedule annexed hcreto ; 

2 . Now , thercfore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petrolcum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962, (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date 
of this notification object to the laying of the pipe lines under the land to the 
Competent Authority - Special Land Acquisition Officer , C / o . Indian Refineries 
Limited , Hathidah ( Patna ) . Every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practi 
tioner . 

SCHEDULE 
State Bihar . District Monghyr. Thane Teghra . 


Village with Thana No. Sucy * o . Extent 

(Plot dyo ) in acre 


Village with Tliana No. Survey No Extent 

(Plot No.) in acre 


Bihat No . 504 


, 


Bihat No. 504 


. 


. 


7273 


7258 


7125 


2419 
24 - 8 
2407 
2175 
2482 
2488 
2520 
2494 
2500 
2501 
2502 
2506 
2505 
2627 
2626 
2625 
2635 


0 .030 
0 070 
O 080 
O 050 
0 : 002 

0020 
0 .080 
O 045 
O OTO 
0 020 
0 025 
O 027 
o 050 
0 040 
O 030 
O olo 
0 . 000 
0 120 
O OIO 
0 150 
0 : 040 
O :Ogo 
0 : 030 
0 : 30 ! 


7124 
7051 
7050 
7055 
7050 
7057 
7059 
побI 
7060 
7032 
7031 
7030 
7020 
7022 


0 : 230 
O 140 
O 140 
0 - 460 
0 . 065 
0 . 065 
0 150 
C 100 
0 . 150 
0 * 125 
O 020 
C . 055 
0 160 
0 . 258 
0 . 060 
0 -060 
0 : 410 
0 : 195 
0 : 310 
0 . 235 
0 . 263 
O I do 
O 047 
O JIO 


2639 


6958 


2640 
7277 


7280 
7276 


6957 
6949 
6946 
6947 
6902 


7275 


6920 


$ ec S( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 188] 


2443 


Village with Thana No. Survey No. Extcnt 

( Plot No.) in acre 


Survey No. 
Village with Thana No. (Plot No .) 


Extent 
(Acre ) 


Bihat No . 504 


4293 
4238 
4258 
4257 
4254 


O 130 
0 170 
0 .080 
0 120 
0 . 130 
0 120 
0 270 
0 025 
0 075 
0 . 030 


4252 


4265 
4253 


4255 


6903 
6919 
6918 
6909 
6910 
6911 
6907 
6860 
6859 
0862 
6856 
2489 
2604 
7380 
7023 
7268 
2622 
7262 
7083 
6993 


0 130 | Senaria No 500 
0 030 
0 . 060 
O 090 
0 : 20 
0 . 040 
0 .080 
O 205 
0 . 102 
0 . 040 
0 . 095 
0 005 Malhipur No. 503 
01040 
0 . 005 
0 . 008 
0 : 040 
0 .010 
0 : 05 
0 .030 
0 . 050 


4165 


260 
258 


268 


271 
272 


343 
355 


O 070 
O 020 
O 100 
0 . 160 
0 .050 
0 : 150 
0 . 180 
0 .610 
0 . 210 
0 :520 
O 160 
0 . 020 
0 .040 
0 .020 
0 . 005 


Semaria No. 500 . 


. 


4181 
4186 
4173 
4172 
4171 
4192 


0 . 220 
00130 
0 070 
O ozo 
0 . 250 
ONIO 


374 
496 
495 
494 
356 


[ No. 31 / 33 / 83- ONG -II , 


S . O . 2140 . - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refine 
I y in Bihar State and Haldia Port in Calcutta in West Bengal State , pipeline : 
should be laid by the Indian Refineries Limited and that for the purpose of laying 
such pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in 
the Schedule annexed hereto ; 

2 . Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Poplines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962, ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this Notification object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the Com 
petent Authority at 9 , Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Calcutta - 17 , in the office of the 
Indian Refineries Limited . Every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practi+ 
tioner . 

SCHEDULE 
State West Bengal. Distt. Midnapore Tehsil/ Thana Mahisadal. 


Survey No, Extent 
(Plot No. ) in acre 


Vilage 


Village 


Survey No. Extent 
( Plot No. ) in acre 


Naradari, J. L . 44 


05 


06 


1318 
1322 
1323 
1345 
1351 
1332 
1353 


06 
OI 
21 
07 
04 
06 


1354 
1355 
1356 
I357 
1359 
1360 
1361 


12 
" OI 
" OI 
· 10 


10 


04 


24114 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART II 


Village 


Survey No 
(Plot No. ) 


Extent 
(Arca ) 


Village 


Survey No. Extent 
(Plot No.) (Arca ) 


Naradari J. L . 44 


Naradari J.L . 44 


06 


1447 
1448 


02 


1449 


1365 
1367 
1368 
1369 
1370 
1427 
1428 
1429 


oos 
- 12 
02 


• 04 


-02 


1432 


14 
03 
- 04 

TO 
- 08 
* 005 
05 

005 
ΟΙ 
OI 
os 
08 
01 
005 
18 
08 
09 


02 


1451 
1452 
1453 
1454 
1455 
1456 
1457 
1458 
1459 
1460 
1463 
1464 
1707 


1433 
1434 
1435 
1436 
1439 
1440 
1441 
1446 


*O2 
OI 
06 


005 


*O2 
·005 


01 


[No. 31 / 33 / 63 -ONG ( III) .) 
B . SUBBA RAO , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

( Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department) 
(Omce of the Director General Posts and Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S .O . 2141. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 30 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made in the New Madras Telephone District Contrlbutory Provident 
Fund Rules , namely : 

In the said Rules : 
1. In rule 17 ; 

(i) For sub -rule ( 3 ), the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) Subject to the condition that no deduction may be made which reduces 

the credit by more than the amount of any contribution by Govern 
with interest thereon credited under rule 9 , before the amount 
standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund is paid out ot the 
Fund , the President may direct the deduction , therefrom and pay 

ment to Government of, 
( a ) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from service for 

grave misconduct of which the President shall be the sole Judge ; 
Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancellcd , the 

amount so deducted shall, on his reinstatement in the service , be 
replaced to his credit in the Fund . He shall also , if required to 
do so by the President, repay any amount paid to him from the 
Fund in pursuance of the rule with interest at the usual rate . 
The amount, so repaid , shall be credited to his account in the 
Fund , the part of which represents his subscriptions and interest 
thereon and the part which represents the Government Contri 

butions being accounted for in the manner provided in the rule ; 
( b ) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his cmployment under Govern 

ment within five years of the commencement thereof, otherwise 
than by reason of a superannuation or a declaration by com 

petent medical authority that he is unft for further service ; 
( c ) any amount due under a liability incurred by the sub uriber to 

Government, 
NOTE .- The powers of the President under this rule may, in respect of the 
amount referred to in clause ( c ) also be exercised by the authority competent to 


SEC . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2445 


sanction an advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under 
clauses (b ) and ( c ) of rule 13 " . 
( ii) " Sub -rule ( 4 ) " sub -rule (5 ) " and " sub -rule (6 ) ” shall be deleted . 

[ 34 -20 /60 - Pen . ] 


S . O . 2142 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amendments 
shall be made in the Rules and Regulations of the Bengal Telephone Provident 
Fund , namely : 

In the said Rules : 
1. For rule 14 , the following rule shall be substituted , namely : 
" 14 - Subject to the provisions contained in rule 13 - A , 13 - B and 13 - C and to 

the condition that no deduction may be made which reduces the credit 
by more than the amount of any contribution by Government with 
interest thereon credited under rule 9 , before the amount standing to 
the credit of a subscriber in the Fund is paid out of the Fund , the 
President may direct the deduction therefrom and payment to Gov 

ernment of 
( a ) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 

grave misconduct of which the President shall be the sole judge; 
Provided that if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled , the amount so 
deducted shall, on his reinstatement in the service be replaced to his credit in the 
Fund . 


( b ) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his employment under Govern 

ment within 5 years of the commencement thereof otherwise than 
by reason of superannuation or a declaration by competent medical 

authority that he is unfit for further service. 
( c ) any amount due under a liability incurred by the Subscriber to Gov 

ernment. 
NOTE , -- ( ) For the purpose of clause (b ) of this rule , the period of 5 years 
shall be reckoned from the commencement of the subscriber s continuous service 
under Government. 


( 2 ) The powers of the President under this Rule may, in respect of the amount 
referred to in clause ( c ) also be exercised by the authority competent to sanction 
an advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under clauses (b ) 
and ( c ) oť sub - rule ( 1) of rule 20 - A " . 

134 - 20 / 80-Pen . ] 
S . O . 2143. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ments shall be made in the Bombay Telephone Contributory Provident Fund Rules 
and Regulations, namely : 

In the said Rules: 
1 . For rule 20 ( a ) the following rule shall be substituted namely : 
20 ( a ) - Subject to the provisions contained in rule 18 and to the condition 

that no deduction may be made which reduces the credit by more 
than the amount of any contribution by Government with interest 
thereon credited under rule 16 , before the amount standing to the 
Credit of a subscriber in the Fund is paid out of the Fund , the 
President may direct the deduction therefrom and payment to Gov 

ernment of — 
( a ) any amount, if a subscriber has been dismissed from service for grave 

misconduct of which the President shall be the sole judge. 
Provided that if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled , the amount so 
deducted shall on his reinstatement in the service , be replaced to his credit in 
the Fund . He shall also , if required to do so by the President repay any amount 
paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of the rule with interest thereon at the 
usual rate . The amount, so renaid , shall be credited to his account in the Fund, 
the part of which represents his subscriptions and interest thereon and the part 


2446 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 : SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[ PART II 


which represents Government Contributions being accounted for in the manner 
provided in the rules ; 
( b ) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his employment under Government 

within five years of commencement thereof , otherwise than by reason 
of superannuation or a declaration by competent medical authority 

that he is unfit for further service ; 
( c ) any amount due under a liability incurred by the subscriber to Govern 

ment. 


NOTE - - The powers of the President under this rule may , in respect of the 
amount referred to in clause ( c ) , also be exercised by the authority competent to 
sanction an advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under 
clauses ( b ) and ( c ) of rule 22 ." 


2 . " Rule 1.9" " rule 34 " and " rule 37A " shall be deleted . 

[ 34 -20 / 60 -Pen .) 
D . K , AGARWAL , 
Assistant Director General, 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 


S . O . 2144 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules , further to amend 
the Small Scale Industries Organisation ( Class III and Class IV Posts ) Recruitment 
Rules . 1960, published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 082 dated the 12th April, 1960 
namely : — 


( 1 ) Thace rules may be called the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class 

Ill and Class IV Posts ) Recruitment ( Amendment) Rules , 1963 . 


( 2 ) Clause ( 1 ), Clause (2 ), and Clause (3 ) of rule 2 shall be deemed to have 

come into force with effect from 18th November 1961, 4th December , 
1981, 12th April 1960 , respectively , 


Industries 


Organisation ( Class III and 


2 . In the Schedule to the Small Scalo 
Class IV Posts ) Recruitment Rules, 1960 . 


( 1) against Item No . 1 in the entries relating to the post of Superintendent in 

column 11, for the words " The promotion shall be on the basis of All 
India Seniority List " , the following words shall be gubstituted , name 
ly : - -- 


" The promotion shall be made by selection on All India basis from the 

seniority lists of Upper Division Clerks in the Small Industries 
Service Institutes and Extension / Production Centres" . 


(2 ) against item No. 2 , in the entries relating to the post of Upper Division 

Clerk . 
(1) for the existing entries In columns 6 and 7, the words " Not applicable " 

shall be substituted : 
( ii ) for the existing entries in column 10, the words " By prometion " shall 

be substituted ; 
(111 ) in column 11 --- 
(a ) in paragraph (a ) -- 
(1) for the word " State " the words " respective States" shall be sub 

stituted . 


(u ) the words " The promotion shall be made on the basis of seniority 

subject to the rejection of the unfit" shall be omitted , 
(b ) paragraph (b ) shall be omitted . 
( 9 ) against item No. 4 , in the entries relating to the post of Stenographer , in 
calumn 8 , for the figures " 21" the figures " 24 " shall be substituted , 

[No. F . 25 ( 20 ) / 62- SSI( C ). ] 
V . C NAIDU , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 29th July 1963 , 
S . O . 2445 In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 209 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following 
regulating the method of recruitment to persons of Class III (Non -ministerial) posts in the Small Scale Industries Orgarisatic n under tte MIPSY 
ommerce and Industry , namely — 

I. Shorttitle : These rules may be called the Small Scale Industries Organisation (Class III Non - Ministerial posts) Recullm :il Ruis, 1903 
2 . Application :— These rules shall apply to the posts specified in column I of the Schedule in the Small Scale Industries Organisatici . 

3 . Number of posts classification , scales af pay etc : The number of the said posts , their classification , the scales of pay attached thereto , 1he 
method of recruitment to the said posts , age limit and othermatters relating to the said posts shall be as a specified in columns 2 to 13 of the said Schedule ; 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment may be relaxed in the case of persons, belonging to Scheduled Castes , Scheduled 
Tribes, and other special fiategories of persons in accordance with the general orders issued by the CengalGovernment from time to time. 

4 . Disqualı- fication - No persons who has more than one wife living or who having a spouse living, marries in any case in which euch marntse 
is void by reasons of its taking place during the life time of such spouse , shall be eligible for appointment to the said posts and 

no woman ,whose marriage is void by reasons of the husband having a wife living at the time of such marriage , or who bas married a persons who has 
a wife living at the timeofsuch marriage , shall be eligible for appointment to the said posts ; 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special grounds for so ordering, erempt any person from the operation of the 
rules . 

S . Power to relax : - Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do , it may , by arder for T2sons 10 be 
recorded in writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or category of persons. 

SCHEDULE 


TUTTI 


Nanc 

of 
Post . 


No. of Classifica 
post. tion . 


selec 


Scale of Whether Age 
pay. 

limit 
tion for 
post direct 
or non - recruit 
selection ment 

Post 


period 
Of Pro - 
bation 
if any 


.. 


IBI 


Method ofrtat. In case of rectt. If . D 
whether by by promotion PC 
direct recti. O transfer grades , crists 
by promotion , from which what 
or transfer & Promotion is its 
persentage of to be made . compo 
the Tocancies 

sitior . 
to be filled 
by variousme 
thods . 


- 


Education and Whether 
other qualifications age & 
required . 

Educa - 

tional 
qualifica 

tions 
prescrib 
ed for the 
direct re 

cruits , 
will apply 
in the casc 
of pro 
motees . 


Y 


. 


. 


. 


**** 


.. 


. 


-..- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


9 


10 


II 


12 


I 


- 


.HA 


vraughts- 

fnan 


53 


No, 


Class III Rs. 205 - 7 - Selec- 
non - gazet - 240 - 8 -280 tion 
ted Non 

Post, 


20 % 28 (1) Matriculation . 
years (11 ) Diploma in 

mechanisl 


2 years By Promotion By promotion eless III NA 

failing which of draughtsman D . P . C 
by direct re - (Junior) Sur 


Ministerial 


frutinent. 


Cvil draughtsman . 
ship from a re 
cogoised Insti 
tution . 


teyot- eu 
Draughttran vith 

three years ser 
vice in the gra 
de in the appro 
Priate trade, 


- 


- 


- 


- 


12 


N . A . 


N . A . 


(# ) 3 years prac 
tical experience 
in the respectice 
trade in design or 

drawing offices. 
20 – 25 (1) Matriculation . Not appl - 2 year . By direct recri 
years 

icable 

itment. 
(11) Diploma in 

Mechanical; Civil, 
Draughtsmanship 
from recognised 
Institution , 


N . A . 


La Drau - 

ghtsman 
(Junior ). 
(6 ) Surve 
yor -am 
Draught 
sman 


NA 


Class III Rs. 150 - 
non - gazet- 5 -175 - 6 
ted Non - 205- EB - 7 
ministerial -240 


T 


11M 


(it) One years ex 
perience in design 

or drawing 
offices . 


TULT 

11:11 


: 


V . C . NAIDU , Under Sect . 

(No. 25 - 591 ( C ) ( 18 ) / 63 .3 


. 


"..PIly 


11 


comer or the same cant contradice e Euberta e Esport 


s 


(om .co of tho Joint Chiel Controllor of Imports & Exporta ) 

Calcutta , the 1st July 1983 
8 . 0 . 2146 . It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A654941 / 61 dt. 
31st March , 1962 valued at Rs, 1320 / - for the Import of Oil Citronela ( serial No. 127 
129 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except union of South Africa , granted by the 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta to M / s , Jayshree Soap 
Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this is 
furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice, by the said M / s. Jayshree Soap Works, 
4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane , Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may be 
interested in it . 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C , Registration No. Cal / IVC / J - 36 /March 63, dated 14th February , 
1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance Certificate . 
Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence would not have 
been 18gued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the said 
licence No . A654941 / 81 dt. 31st March , 1962 are hereby directed not to enter into 
any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately to the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 

[No. 49 / 63 /CDN . J 
$ . 0 . 2147. It is hereby notified, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1955 , Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A654456 / 61 dt. 
9th April, 1962 valued at Rs. 3200 / - for the Import of Palm Oil ( Serial No . 61 (b ) / 
IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except union of South Africa , granted by the 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta to M / s. Jayshree Soap 
Works, 4 / 45 , Chandſtala Lane, Calcutta unless suſilclent cause against this is 
furnished to the Joint Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports , Calcutta within ten 
days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said Messrs, Jayshree Soap Works, 
4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any bank , or any other party , who may be 
Interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the sald licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No . Cal / IVC / J - 36 /March 63 , dated 14th February , 
1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance Certificate . 
Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence would not have 
been issued , 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 . Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the sald 
Ucence No. A654456 / 61 dated 9th April, 1962 are hereby directed not to enter into 
any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately to the Joint 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta , 

[ No. 49 / 63 / CDN . ) 


S . O . 2148. - It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 , the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A961395 / 02 dt. 
16th February , 1963 valued at Rs. 4410 - for the Import of Tallow (Serial No. 60 / 
IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South Africa , granted by the 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta to M / s . Jayshree Soap 
Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this is 
furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports Calcutta within ten 
days of the date of issue of this notice , by the sald M / s. Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , 
Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested 


to it . 


The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Regisération No. Cal / IVC / J - 36 / March 83, dated 14th February , 
1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance Certificate . 


Arc - 841 ) 


THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA : AUGUST $, 1908 /SRAVANA 12. 1855 


2451 


Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence would not have 
been issued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditain 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the said 
licence No. A961395 /62 dated 16th February , 1963 are hereby directed not to enter 
into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately to the 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports Calcutta , 

(No. 49 / 83 /CDN . 


$ . 0 , 2149. It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No . A557880 / 02 
dt, 28th December , 1962 valued at Rs. 5440 / - for the Import of Palm Oil ( Serial 
No. 61 (b ) / IV ) from the Soft Currency area except Union of South Africa , granted 
by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta to M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this 
is furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s. Jayshree Soap , 
Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other pusty , who 
may be interested in it . 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I, V . C . Registration No. Cal/ IVC / J -36 / March 63 , dated 14th February . 
1982 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance Certificate . 
Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence would not have 
been issued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chandltala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the said 
licence No. A557880 / 82 dated 26th February , 1962 are hereby directed not to 
enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 

(No. 49 / 63 / CDN ) 


S . O . 2150. - It is hereby notined, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A052459 / 61 
dt. . 16th February , 1963 valued at Rs, 2630 /- for the Import of Tallow (Serial 
No , . 80 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South Africa , granted 
by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports Calcutta to M / 8 . Jayshree 
Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this 
18 Turnished to the Joint Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 
4 / 46 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may bo 
Lriterested in it. - 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No . Cal / IVC / J- 36 /March 63, dated 14 February , 
1982 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance Certificate . 
Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence would not have 
been issued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s. Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 . Chanditala 
Lane , Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the sald 
Licence No. A652459 / 61 dated 16th February , 1963 are hereby directed not to enter 
into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately to the 
Joint Chlef Controller of Imports and exports , Calcutta , 

[No. 49/63 /CDN . I 


S . O . 2151. - It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 , the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No, A557645 / 62 
dt. 3156 December , 1962 valued at Rs. 2168 / - for the Import of Copra (Serial 
No. 38 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South Africa granted by 
the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta within ten days of 
the date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s , Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , 
Chanditala Lane , Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested 
in . It. 


2452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 / 9RAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART 4 


The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No . Cal/ IVC / J - 36 /March 1963 dated 14th 
February , 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by M / s , 
Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance 
Certificate. Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence 
would not have been issued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 . Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the said 
Ucence No . A557645 / 62 dated 31st December 1962 are hereby directed not to 
enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 

( No. 49 / 83 / CDN .) 


S . O . 2162 . - It is hereby notified, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No . A655436 / 61, 
dated 6th March , 1962 valued at Rs. 2550 / - for the import of Copra (Serial No. 
38 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South Africa granted 
by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta within ten 
days of date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 
445 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who niay be 
Interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No. Cal/ IVC / J - 36 /March 1963, dated 14th 
February 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance 
Certificate . Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence 
would not have been issued. 

In view of what is stated above , M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the 
sald licence No. A635436 / 61, dated oth March 1962 are hereby directed not to 
enter into any commitments against the said Ucence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta , 

( No. 49 / 63 / CDN . ) 


S . O . 2153 . — It is hereby notifled , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel Iicence No A853898 / 61, 
dated 30th April 1962 valued at Rs. 1, 000 / - for the Import of N . E . Oil (Serial No . 
127 - 129 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Aręå except Union of South Africa , granted 
by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta to M / s . Jayshree 
Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this 
is furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s . Jayshree Soap Works , 
V45 , Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other party , who may be 
interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No . Cal/ IVC / 1 -36 /March 1963, dated 14th 
February 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance 
Certificate . Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the licence 
would not have been issued . 

In view of what is stated above, M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested lo the 
said licence No. 653898 / 61, dated 30th April 1982 are hereby directed not to 
enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta . 

[ No 49 ,63 / CDN .1 


S . O . 2154. - It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order, 1955, the Government of India . in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A557635 / B2, 
dated 31st December . 1962 valued at Rs. 1, 700 / - for the Import of N . E . Oil 
(Serial No. 127 / 129 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South 
Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta 


SEC . Nü)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUSI 3, 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2453 


to M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient 
CRUSO against this is furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 
Calcutta within ten days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said M / s . 
Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane , Calcutta or any Bank , or any other 
party , who may be interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of 1, V . C , Registration No. Ca} / IVC / J - 36 /March 1963, dated 14th 
February 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by. 
M / 8 , Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance 
Certificate . Had this fact been known to the licensing Authority the licence 
would not have been issued . 

In view of what is stated above, M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala 
Lane , Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the 
said licence No. A557635 /62, dated 31st December , 1962 are hereby directed not 
to enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta 

[No. 49 / 63 /CDN . ] 


S . O . 2156 . - It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control ) Order , 1955 , the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No. A961780 / 02 , 
dated 21st January , 1963 , valued at Rs. 544 / - for the Import of Oil Citronela 
( Serial No . 127 - 129 / IV ) , from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South 
Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta 
to M / s. Jayshree Soap Works, 4 /45 , Chanditala Lane , Calcutta unless sufficient 
cause against this is furnished to the Joint Chiet Controller of Inports and Exports , 
Calcutta within ten days of the date of issue of this notice, by the said M / s . 
Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45, Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank , or any other 
party , who may be interested in it . 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V .C . Registration No. Cal/ IVC / J - 36 /March 1963, dated 14th 
February , 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a false Income Tax Clearance 
Certifcate . Had this fact known to the Licensing Authority the licence would 
not have been issued . 

In view at what is stated above, M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala 
Lane. Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the 
said licence No. A961780 / 62, dated 21st January, 1963 are hereby directed not 
to enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 

[No. 49 / 83 / CDN. ) 
S . O . 2156 . — It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clauge 9 of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel licence No . A981482 /62, 
dated 21st February , 1963, valued at Rs. 1, 488 / - for the Import at Oil Citronela 
( Serial No. 127 - 129 / IV ) from the Soft Currency Area except Union of South 
Africa , granted by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . Calcutta 
to M / s . Jayghree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditale Lane , Calcutta unless sufficient 
cause against this is furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports , Calcutta within ten days of the date of issue of this notice , by the said 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 / 45 , Chanditala Lane , Calcutta or any Bank or 
any other party , who may be interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence wag Issued 
on the basis of 1. V . C , Registration No. Cal / IVC / J - 36 /March 1983, dated 14th 
February 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their fayour by 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of & false Income Tax 
Clearance Certificate . Had this fact been known to the Licensing Authority the 
licence would not have been issued . 

In view of that is stated above, M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 4 ,445, Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank , or any other party , who may be interested in the 
sald licence No. A961482 / 62 , dated 21st February , 1963 are hereby directed not 
to enter into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately 
to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Calcutta. 

[ No. 49/83 / CDN .) 


2454" 


THE GAZETTEM OPNDLA : AUGUST 3, 1980 / SRAVANA 12 , 1886 


( PART 


8 . 0 . 2174 + It is hereby notified , that in exercise of the powers conterred by 
clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) Order , 1956 , the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry . propose to cancel licence No. A653700 / 81, 
valued at Rs. 500 / - dated 3rd May 1962 tor the Import of Soap Colour (Seriai 
No . 34- 37 / V ) from the Soft Currency Area exçept Union of South Africa , granted 
by the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta to M / s , Jayshre . 
Soap Works, 4 /45, Chanditala Lane, Calcutta unless sufficient cause against this 
18 furnished to the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta within 
ten days of the date of logue of this notice , by the said M / s. Jayshree Soap Works, 
4 / 48; Chanditala Lane, Calcutta or any Bank or any other party , who may be 
interested in it. 

The grounds for the proposed cancellation is that the said licence was issued 
on the basis of I. V . C . Registration No. Cal/ IVC / J - 36 /March 1963, dated 14th 
February 1962 which is alleged to have been got allotted in their favour by 
M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, Calcutta on production of a fatse Income Tax Clearance 
Certificate: Had this fact been known to the licensing Authority the licence would 
not have been issued . 

In view of what is stated above M / s . Jayshree Soap Works, 445 , Chanditala 
Lane, Calcutta , or any Bank or any other party , who may be interested in the 
said licence No. 4853700 / 61, dated 3rd May , 1982 are hereby directed not to enter 
into any commitments against the said licence and return it immediately to the 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 

[No. 49 / 63 / CDN . ) 

P . K . BISWAS , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , Calcutta . 


( Opeo of tho Dopaty Chief Controllor of Imports and Exports ) 

( Coutral Liconging Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1963 
8 .U . 2158 . — Whereas M / s. Rama Industries, Industrial Area , Bahadurgarh or 
any Bank or any other person have not come forward furnishing sufficient cause, 
against Natice No. DCCI/ I ( CLA ) / 253 / 62 / 2309 , dated 27th June 1963 proposing 
to cancel Licence No . ( 8 ) A 611252 /61, dated 24th May 1962 valued at Rs. 2 ,500 / 
for importet Molybadenum Metal ( 2 ) A 611259 / 61, dated 24th May 1962 valued 
at Rs. 2 ,800 for import of Tungstone Metal Powder and ( 3 ) A 611254 /61, dated 
24th May 1882 for Rs. 1, 250 / - for - import of Silicon Carbide Crucibles granted to 
Bald M / s . Ramą Industries, Industrial Area , Bahadurgarh by the Deputy Chief 
Controlier of thports and Exports ( Central Licensing Area ) Jan Path Barracks 
B , New Delhi, Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
in exercise of the powers conferred by the clause 9 of the Import (Control ) 
Order 1965 , hereby cancel the sald licence No . ( 9 ) A 611252 /61 dt . 24th May 1982 
( 2 ) A 611253 / 61 dated 24th May 1982 and ( 3 ) A 611254 /61 dated 24th May 1982 
işgued to M / 8 . Rama Industries, Industrial Area , Bahadurgarh . 
M / Rama Industries , Industrial Area Bahadurgarh . 

[NO. DCCI/ I ( CLA )/ 253 /62.) 


NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 3rd August, 1963 
8 . 0 . 2159. It is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order 1955 , the Government of India , in the Minis 
try of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel two import licences No . ( I ) A576424 / 
62 , dated 12th December 1062 for Rs. 3750 / - for import of Radio Parts and Licence 
No. A / 668218 / 61, dated 22nd January 1962 for Rs. 6750 / - for import of cheap 
Radio Parts granted by Dy, Chief Controller of Imports & Exports (Central Licensing 
Area ) New Delhi to M / s. Radio House , 402, Lajpat Rai Market, Delhi unlegs 
sufficient cause against this is furnished to the Dy . Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports (Central Licensing Area ) , New Delhi within ten days of the date of 
iegue of this Notice by the said M / s . Radio House , 402 Lajpat Ral Market, Delhi 
or any Bank or any other party , who may be interested in it. 

2 . The grounds of the proposed cancellation of the licences in question are 
that he licences No. A576424762, dated 12th December 1982 for Rs. 3750 for 


Szc . 311)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1884 


2455 


Import of Radio Parts and (2 ) A868218 /61, dated 22nd January 1962 for Rs. 8750 / 
for import of Cheap Radio Parts , were obtained by misrepresentation , 

3 . In view of what is gtated above M / 3. Radio House , 402 , Lajpat Ral Market, 
Delhi or any Bank or any other party who may be interested in the said licences 
No. A576424 / 62, dated 12th December 1962 and A868218 / 81, dated 22nd January 
1962 are hereby directed not to enter into any commitments against the sala 
licences and return the same immediately to the Dy . Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports (Central Licensing Area ), New Delhi. 
M / s Radio House , 402 -Lajpat Ral Market, Delhi. 

[No. DCCI. I (CLA ) / 34 / 03.2 

RAM MURTI SHARMA , 
Dy . Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports . 


( Ladian Standards Institution ) 

Noco Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2160 : In pursuance of sus - rogulations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dicis Institution (Certification Mirks ) Regulations, 1955 , 28 amended in 1961 and 1962, the 
Indiin Standards Institution hereby 1 cs that the Indian Standard (3 ), particulars of which are 
sven in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been established during the period 1 July to 22 July 
1963. 

THE SCHEDULE 


Bricf Particulars 


No. and Title of the Indian No. and Titlo of the 
Standard established Indian Standard or 

Standards, if any, 
superseded by the 
aew Indian Stand 

ard 


(3 ) 
I IS :629- 1963 Specification IS :629 - 1955 Speci- This standard covers the requ rements 

for Bicycle Hub Assen fication for Bicycle for front and rear hub assemblies 
blios (Rooised ) . 

Hub Assemblies suitable for fitting in popular sizce 
( Tontatioo ). 

of bicycles in use in the country . 

(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ). 
1 IS : 666 - 1963 Spocification IS :666 - 1955 Speci- This standard covers the more com 

for Dilling Jig Bushes fication for Drill monly used types of jig bushes , 
(Rovised ) . 

ing Jig Bushcg namely , fixed bushes (long and 
( Tentativo ). 

short ) , slip bushes and liner bushet 
( long and short ) . These are used 
in drilling and reaming work . (Price 

Rs. 2 ,00 ), 
3 IS : 1172 - 1983 Code of IS : 1172 - 1957 Code This standard lays down basic 

bulcrequirem ? nts for Wa . of Basic Require requirements for water supply 
ter Supply , Dra nage and ments for Water drainage and sanitation for rest 
Szitation (Routsed ) . Supply Drainage dential, commercial, industrial 

and Sanitation . and other types of buildings inclu 

ding railway platforms, bus 
stations and bus terminals . (Price 

Rs. 4 . 50 ) . 
4 . IS : 1304 - 1963 Glossary of IS : 1324 - 1958 Gos - The standard defines the terms widely 

TermsUsedin Fər ilizer Pary of Terms used in the fertilizer trade 
Trade and Industry Used in Fertilizer and industry in this country . (Prict 
( Revised ) . 

Trade and Indus - Rs. 3 . 00 ). 


try . 


SIS : 1448 (Part II) 1962 Me. 

thods of Test for Petro 
leum and its Products , 
Part II. 


This standard prescribes the methods 
of test which are common to several 
detailed Indian Standard specifica 
tions for individual petroleum pro 
ducts , It covers definitions of terms 
uacd in the trade and industry . 


2456 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1969/ARAVANA 12 , 1885 


[PART IT 


LIN 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


and test procedures for deter 
mining bromine number , knock 
characteristics of aviation and high 
performance fuce , olefinics and AIO 
matic content, and thermal stability 
of aviation turbine ſuçlo . (Price 
Rs. 10 .00 ) . 


6 


IS : 1715 - 1963 Dimensior : 

for Self - Holding Tapers 


This standard specifies the dimen 
sions of a rational serles of self -hold 
ing tapere selected from the existing 
Morse and mctric scries , It also 
specifies the dimensions of coun 
terbores for tool shanks with tapped 
end . . (price Rs. 3 .00 ) 


7 


IS : 1916 - 1963 Specifice 

tion for Stoel Cylinder 
Reinforced Concrete 
Pipte . 


This specificatior lays caur liti ( 

ments and methods of tests for stec ) 
cylinder reinforced concrete piper 
having nominal internal diameter 
from 200mm to 1, 800 mm for use 
in water mains, sewers , irrigation 
works and similar situations. The 
specification COVCIS pipes having 
(A ) spigot and socket ends and (5 ) 
plain ends or glip - in type er do 
suitable for field welding . (price 
Rs, 2 . 50 ). 


3 IS : 1931- 1962 Specifica 

tion for Engineers Files 


This standard coyers : 
(a ) General Requirements ari N . c 

thods of Test for Files . 
( 6 ) Dimensional and Test Require 

ments for Engineer s Files , 
(c ) Dimchsioralard Test“ Rcquirer 

ments for Saw Files , and 
( d ) Dimensional and Test Require 

ments for Mill Files and Mis 
cellaneous Filce . (Price Rs. 6 . 50 ) . 


9 


IS :2194 - 1963 Code for 

Seaworthy Packaging of 
Man -Made Fibre Fabrics 


IO I $ :2276 - 1962 Specifica 

tion for Vegetable and 
Aluminium Tanned 

Snekeskins 
II IS : 2285- 1963 Spccifice 

cion for Cast Iron Surface 
Plates 


This code prescribes the method of 
packaging man -made fibre bafrics 
intended for transport by kca, (Price 

R9, 2 .00 ), 
This standard prescribes the require 
ments and the methods of test for 
vegetable and aluminjum tarned 
snakeskins, (Price Rs. 4 .00 ). 
This standard covers the requirement: 
of rectangular ard Square surface 
plate made of cast fron , used for 
Inspection and marking purposes . 
(Price Rs. 3. 50 ). 
This star dard cover the requirements 

for ranging rods . (Price Re. 1 . 00 ) , 
This standard covers the requirements 

for 60° dead certies for lathes . 
Dimensions for half centres have 
also been covered in this specifica 
tion . (Price Re. Loo ). 
This stonderd prescritte irripet 
accuracies for slotting machines . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 


12 IS :2288- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Ranging Rods 
13 IS :2289 - 1963 Specific 

tion for 60° (Dead Centres 
for Lathee) 


14 


IS :2308 - 1963 Test Chart 

for Slotting Machines , 


Str. 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963/SÅ AVANA 12 , 1883 


2457 


(3 ) 


15 IS :2320 - 1963 Met! < ds of 

Measurements for Am 
plitude Modulated Ra 
dio Frequency Sigral 
Ger crators ( 30KC/S 10 30 
Mc/s ) 


16 


IS : 2344 - 1963 Specifica 

tion for Chewing Tobacco 
Zarda Flake Tyre. 


17 


IS :2352 - 1963 Procedure for 

Basic Climatic and Dura 
bility Tests for Optica ) 
| Instruments . 


78 


IS :2354 - 1963 Specifice 

tion for Ethyl Mercury 
Chloride, Technical 


19 IS :2355- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Stabilized Ethoxy 
Ethyl Mercury Chloride 

Concentrate , 
20 IS :2357- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Formulations 
Basedon Phenyl Mercury 

Acctate . 
21 I $ :2358 - 1963 Specifica 

tion for Formulations 
Based on Stabilized Mc 
thoxy Ethyl Mercury 

Chloride Conccotrate , 
22 IS :2359 - 1963 Specifica 

tion for Formulations 
Based on Stabilized Et 
hory Ethyl Mercury 

Chloride Concentrate . 
2 IS : 2360 - 1963 Specifica 

tion for Worsted Jeracyt 


This standard lays down the cor diticis 

and detailed procedurcs for the tests 
tc be conducted on all classes of em - - 
pliti de modulated (sir U - so : dal mc- . 
dulation ) radio frcquercy Sigr El 
generators in the frcqucrcy Tenge 
of 30 Kcs to 30 Mc/s to determice 
their performance charccteristics. 
( Price Rs. 4 . 50 ). 
This standard prescribes the require - - 

ments for quality , packing , and the 
methods of test for chewing tobacco , 
zarda flake type , manufactured in 

India . (Price Rs. 4 .50 ). 
This standard lays dowri general pro 

cedures for climatic and mechanical 
robustness testes designed to assess 
the durability under various condi 
tions of use , transport and storage : 
of different types of optical instru 
mente. (Price Rs. 5. 50 ). 
This standard prcscribes the requirc 
mępts and the methods of test for 
ethyl mercury chloride, technical. 

(Price Rs. 2. 50 ). 
This standard prescribes the require 

ments and the methods of teat for: 
stabilized cthoxy ethyl mcrcury chlo - . 

ride concerttare . (Price Rs . 2 . 50 ) . 
This standard prescribco the requite 
ments and the methods of test for 
the formulations based on phenyi 

mercury acetate . (Price Rs. 2 .00 ) .. 
Thir standard prescribes the require 

ments and the methods of test for 
the formulations based on stabilized 
methoxyethyl mercury chloride 

concentrate . (Price Rs. 2 ,00 ) . 
This standard ficrcrites the require 

ments and the methods of test for 
the formulations bssed on stabilized 
methoxy ethyl mercury chloride. 
concentrate . (Price Rs. 2 ,00 ). 
This standard Profcribes the construc - - 

tional details and other particulars . 
of worsted jerseys , white , dyed or 

mixture shades . (Price Rs. 3. 00 ). 
This standard prescribes definitions of 

textile terms relating to fabrics 
made from natural fibres , nemely , 
cotton , wool, silk and Jute . (Price 

Rs. 4 . 50 ). 
This standard covers found strand 
stcelwire Suspensionsopes of Lang s 
lay or ordinary lay from 6mm to 
25 mm in diameter , and flattened 
strand from somm to 25 mm in 
diametes, for use with lifts or hoists 
having cars or platforms carrying 
passengers or goods and working in 
guides . (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ). 
This standard prescribes the limits of 
Accuja cíes for hox column drilling 
machine. ( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 


24. IS :2364 - 1963 Glossary of 

Textile Terms – Fabrics 
Made from Natural 


Fibres . 


25 IS :2365- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Steel Wire Sus 
pension Ropes for Lifte 
and Hoist , 


26 


IS : 2367 - 1963 Test Chart 

for Box Column Drilling 
Machiner. 


1458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1905 /ORAVANA 12 , 1845 


[Part 1 


27 IS : 2369- 1963 Method for 

Detormination of Aboor 
bency of Highly Abror 
beat Materials such as 
Cotton Gauzo and Cot 

ton Wool. 
28 I $ :2370- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Sectional Cold 
Rooms (Walk - In Type ). 


This standard prescribes a method for 

the determination of the absorbono 
of highly absorbent materials sucha 
As cotton gauzc , cotton wool, etc . 
( Price Re. 1.00 ). 


09 


IS :2371- 1963 Specifica 

tion for Solid Drawn 
Copper Alloy Tubes for 
Condensers , Evaporators , 
Heaters and Coolers Us 
ing Saline and Hard 
Water . 


30 


IS :2372 - 1963 Specifice 

tion for Timber for Cool 
ing Towers . 


31 IS : 2375 - 1963 Recommcn 

dation for Modular Co 
ordination Applied to 
RCC Framed Structures , 


This standard covers the general cons 
truction requirements , methods of 
computing yolumes and self artus 
of sectional cold rooms within the 
range of 3 , 000 to 45 ,000 ftrcs STOR 
volume capacity and operated by an 
clectrically driven refrigerating 
machine of the vapour compression 
type . The methods of carrying 
out tests on sectional cold rooms are 

also specified . (Price Rs. 4 - 50 ) . 
This standard covers the requirements 

for solid drawn cupro - nickel and 
gluminium brass alloy tubes of out 
side diameter ro mm to 40 mm both , 
inclusive for use in condensera , 
cvaporators , heaters and cooken 
using saline and hard water. (Prico 

Rs. 3 .00 ) . 
This standard covers the species , gru 
des , requirements and treatments 
for timber used in the construction 

of cooling towers. (Price Rs. 2 .00 ) . 
This standard lays down recommenda 

tion for preferred dimensions of re 
inforced concrete structural mem 
bers like beams, columns, braces , 
and their relative disposition with 
a view to achieving modular cow 
ordination. (Price Re. 1.00 ). 
This standard prescribed a scheme of 
colour coding for identification of 
copper and coppereMoys on the beals 
of chemical composition . (Prion 

Rs. 2 .00 ) . 
This standard specifies the symbole 

which shall be used for the designs 
tion of copper and copper 
alloys on the basis of the 
chemical compositions, physical 
conditions, etc . It is intended that 
only the minimum number of sym 

bola shall be used . (Price Rs. 1 . 50 ). 
This standard covers the preparation 

and conditioning of test pleces and 
the methods for carrying out the 
various tests on wood particle boarde 

(Price Rs. 6 , 50 ). 
This standard lays down the ICCOA 
mended mounting dimensions for 
single cone moving coil (dynamic ) 
loudspeakers of direct radiator typo 
having corce of circular and elli 

ptical sections . (Price Re. 1.00 .) 
This standard covers recothmenda 
tions for the calibration of vehicle 
tanks which are used for transport 
of petroleum products and other 
Liquids. (Price Rs. 2 .00 ). 


32 


IS :2376 - 1963 Colour Code 

for the Identification of 
Copper and Copper Al 
loye . 


-33 I $ :2378 - 1963 Code for De 

signation of Copper and 
Copper Alloys . 


34 IS : 2380 - 1963 Methods of 

Test for Wood Particle 
Boards and Boards from 
Other Lignocellulosic 

Materials , 
35 IS : 2382 - 1963 Recommen 

ded Mounting Dimen 
sions of Loudspeaker 


36 


I $ :2383 - 1963 Code of Prac 

tice for Calibration of 
Vehicle Tanks for Petro 
leum Products and other 
Liquids . 


with 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST ), 1933 /SRAVANA 19, 1805 


2150 


- 


- 


- 


(4 ) 


37 IS :2384- 1963 Specifica . 

tion for Tin Anodes for 

Blectroplating. 
38 IS :2387 - 1963 - Method for 

Determination of Weight 
Pet Lincar Metre (Or 
Linear Yard ) and Weight 
per Square Metre ( Or 
Square Yard ) of Jute 

Fabrics . 
39 IS : 7389- 1963 Specifica 

tion for HaxagonalHead 
Bolts , Screws, Nuts and 
Lock Nuts ( M 1. 6 to M5) 


This standard covers the requirements 
for tinanodes used for electroplat 

ing. ( Price Re. 1.00 ). 
This standard prescribes a method for 
determination of weight per linear 
metre (or lincar yard ) and the weight 
per square metre (or equare yard ) 
of jute fabrics. (Price Re. 1.00 ). 


This standard covers the requirements 

for hexagonal head bolts , screw 
nuts and lock nuts for sizes M 1 : 6 
to M5. (Price Rs. 2 .00 ). 


Copies of these Standards are available for sale , with the Indian Standards Institution 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Mathura Road , New Delhi- 1, and also at its branch offices at ( 1) 232 Dr. 
Dadabhoy Naroji Road, Fort, Bombay - I , (ii) Third Floor, II Sooterkin Street, Calcutta - 19 , 
( iii ) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 , General Patters Road , Madras - 2 , (iv ) 14 /69 Civil 
Lines, Kanpur. 

[ No . MD / 13 ; 2 . ] 
A , N . GHOSH , 
Joint Director. 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2161. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri S . M . Ramakrishna Rao to be a member of the Central 
Advisory Council of Industries established by the Order of tho Government of 
India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . O . 1932, dated the 5th 
July , 1963, till the 4th July 1965 , and directs that the following amendment shall 
be made in the said Order, namely : 

In the said Order after entry No. 17 relating to Shri N . B . Pragad , the 
following entry shall be added , namely : 

" 17A , Shri S . M , Ramakrishna Rao owners Member 
Lakshmi Nivas , 
Fort, 
Bangalore - 2 ." 

[No. 1 ( 2 )Lic , Pol. /63. 
J . S . BAKHSHI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE 

N :w Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S . O . 2162 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 18E of the In 
dystrica (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry No. 10 ( 23 ) - Tex ( A ) 62 , dated the 6th April, 1963, specifying the ex 
ceptions, restrictions and limitations subject to which the Companies Act, 1956 , shall continue to 
apply to the industrial undertaking called the Pratap Spinning, Weaving and Manufacturing Company 
Ltd . , Amalner , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said Notification , the followirg items ard entries shall teinecrted at ite 
end , nemcy : 


Section 445 . 


Sub - section ( 3 ) of this section shall rot apply in relaticn 10 such 

officers and employees of the Industrial undertakirg as arc ccr 
cerned with the running of its Mills and arcillery cffices by the 
Authorised Controller. 


10 . 


THE GAZETTE QF INDIA : AVGUS. DONASRA 


Intermann 


Section 454 . . Sub -section ( 5) of this section shall not apply in relation to the 

Authorised Controller . 
Section 456 . . . This section shall not apply in rclation to the property and effects of 

the industrial undertaking in the custody or control of the Autho 
riged Controller until the sale of the plant and machinery belong 

ing to the indugtrial undertaking. 
Section 457 read with sec - Clause (1 ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 457 shall not apply in relation 
tlon 458 . 

to the running of the mills and ancillary office of the industrial 
undertaking by the Authorised Controller and clause (d ) of the 
gub - section shall not apply in relation to the teising of any requisite 
money on the security of the assets of the industrial andertaking 

in the custody or control of the Authorised Controller, 
*Section 460 

This section ghall not apply in relation to any assets of the industrial 

undertaking so long as such 488ets are in the custody of cotrol of 
the Authorised Controller . 


Section 468 . 


. 


. 


Section 471. . 


. 


. 


This section ghall not apply in relation to any moncy , a property 

or books and papers in the hands of the Authorised Controller 

to which the industrial undertaking is prima facia entitled , 
This section shall not apply in relation to monics in the custody of the 

Author ,cd Controller or any monics becoming due to the industrial 
undertaking in the course of or in connection with the running 

of its mills and ancillary offices by the Authorised Controller. 
This section shall not apply to monics and securities paid or 

delivered into the Reserve Bank of India in any account opened 
by the Authorised Controller . 


Section 472 


. 


. 


. 


Sections 477 & 478 


These sections shall not apply in relation to the Authorised Controller 

on condition thathe presents in cach year to the Official Liquidator 
a statement in the form set out in Schedule VI to the Companies 
Act , 1956 , or in a form as near thereto as the circumstances of the 
case admit , giving a truc and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
indugtrial undertaking at the end of the financial year and of the 
profit and loss for the financial ycar , duly audited by a person 
qualified as an auditor under section 226 of the Companies Act , 
1956 . 


Section 535 


, 


. 


This section shall not apply in respect of the property in the custody 

of the Authorised Controller . 


Section 536 


Sub - section ( 2 ) of this section shall not apply to any disposition of 

property by the Authorised Controller either for t asirg any monics 
on the security of the property in his custody or in the course of 
or in connection wi·h the running of the mills and ancillary offices ." 


[No. F . 10 (23) - Tex ( A /62.)] 


S . O . 2163 . — Whereas the Central Government has , by its order in the Ministry 
of Commerce and Industry , No. F . 10 ( 23 ) - Tex ( A ) /62, dated the 4th March . 1983. 
issued under section 18A of the Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act. 
1951 (65 of 1951 ) , authorised Shri S . A . Kher to take over the management of 
the whole of the Industrial Undertaking called the Pratap Spinning , Weaving and 
Manufacturing Company , Limited , Amalner , for the period specified therein ; 


And whereas proceedings for the winding up of the said undertaking were 
pending in the Bombay High Court on the date of the said Order. 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 18E of the said Act , the Central Government hereby accords 
Its consent to the continuance of the said proceedings in the Bombay High Court. 


[ No. F . 10 ( 23 ) - Tex ( A ) / 82. ) 


T. S. KUNCHITHAPATHAM , Dy. Secy. 


BAT 


THE QAZETTE OF INDIA : AUOUIT 


MALAMAN 


DE 


COTTBE CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S . O . 2164. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 10 of the Coffee Act , 1942 ( 7 of 1942 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the previous sanction of that Government required under the 
said sub - section shall not be necessary for complaints with regard to the following 
offences under the said Act , namely : 
(1) Section 17 read with section 36 (sale of coffee in excess of the internal 

sale quota ) ; 
( ii) Section 18 read with section 36 ( sale of coffee which has not been 

cured at or is not delivered to the buyer through a curing establi. 
ment licensed under section 28 or sale of coffee without a licence 

procured from the Board under section 24 ) ; 
(iii) Section 23 read with section 37A (Failure to submit returns ); 
( iv ) Section 25 read with section 38A ( Failure to deliver surplus pool 

coffee ) ; 
( v ) Section 37 (Curing establishment operating as such without a licence ); 
( vi) Section 38 ( Submission of false returns ) ; 
( vii) Section 39 (Obstructing duly authorised persons from the discharge of 
their duties ) . 

[No. 2 (6 ) Plant (B ) /69.) 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY , Under Secy . 


ORDER 


IMPORT TRADE CONTROL , 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1963 
8 . 0 . 2165 / IECA / 3 - 4A / 6 /63. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
3 of the Imports and Exports ( Control) Act, 1947 ( 18 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following order further to amend the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955 , namely : 

1. Short title . — This order may be called the Imports (Control) 11th Amend 
ment Order, 1963 . 


2 . Amendment of clause 11 ( 1 ) . In the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 . for 
sub - clause ( 1 ) of clause 11, the following sub - clause shall be substituted , 
namely : 


" ( 1 ) of Indian manufacture and foreign made parts of such goods, export 

ed and received back by the manufacturer ( s ) from the consignee 
for repair and re- export provided that: 


( i) the Customs authorities are satisfied with the bonafides of the case , 

and 


( ii ) in the case of goods other than those exempt from customs duty 

on re - importation under Customs Notification No. 132 , dated 9th 
December 1961, a bond is executed by the importer with the 
Import Trade Control authority at the port concerned to the effect 
that the goods thus imported will be re - exported after repair 
within six months; " . 


[No. 18 /63. ) 
M . L. GUPTA , Under Secy . 


2462 


TH . GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST , 1978 ALLUVANA 19 . 1880 F 


LIT 


MINISTRY OP SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND OULTURAL AFFAIRS 

ARCHAEOLOGY 

New Delhi, the 25th July 1968 
8 . 0 . 2166 . — Whereas the Central Government is ot opinion that the archaeologi 
cal site and remains speciked in the Schedule attached hereto is of national 
Importance. 

Now , therefore , în exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 ( 24 
of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to declare the 
said archaeological site and remains to be of national importance. 

Any objection made within two months of the issue of this notifcation by any 
person interested in the said Archaeological sites and remains will be considered by 
the Central Government. 


SCHEDULE 


1, No. State 


District 


Tahsıl 


Locality 


Area 


Nameofmonument 

site 


Boundaries 


Ownership 


Revenue plotnumber 
to beincluded under 

protection , 


1 


2 


3 


4 


9 


10 


I Bihar 


Patna 


3 : 37 
acres. 


Village Ahiapur Ma- Ancient mound and Part of survey plot 
ner (Revenue unit ruined brick walls No. 399 as shown in 
No. 34 ). 

together with adja - the plan reproduced 
cent land compri- below . 
sing part of survey 
plot No. 399 . 


North .-- Foot Path Private 
East - Remains g 
part of survey plot 
No. 399 and survey 
plot Nos. 400 , 402 , 
403 and 404 
South . — Survey plot 

No. 535. 
West. Survey plot 
No . 2565. 


SEC.9(11)] THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST8,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


2 Bihar , Patna . 


. . 


Village Maner (Re 
venue Unit No . 7 ) . 


0 . 35 
acres. 


Ancient mound and Part of survey plots 
ruined brick walls Nos , 608 and 611 as 
together with ad - shown in the Plan 
jacent land comp - reproduced below . 
rising part of Sur 
vey plots Nos. 608 
and 611, 


North . - Survey Plots Private , 
Nos . 607, 609 , 612 
and remaining part 
of survey plot No . 
611. 
East. - - Survey plot 
No. 614 and remai 
ning part of survey 
plot No. 611. 
Souk - Remaining 
part of survey plot 
No. 611 and survey 

plot No. 398 . 
West - Remaining 
part of survey plot 
No. 608 . 


2463 


SITE PLAN OF THE ANCIEI ! SITES & REI AllvS lly 

VILLAGES AHIAPUR MANER & MANER 


2464 


25 


50 


50 
200 


50 100 

200 


150 200 METRES 
400 600 FEET 


25 0 
joontó 


75 100 METRES 
200 300 Feet 


100 


A 


MANER 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


605 


6202 


399 
4093 


7 607 


405.KL496 


16107 
609513 


402 


L 


2565 


AHIAPUR MANER 


1984 


O 


6 / 7 


5 


618 


LIMITS OF PROPOSED PROTECTION . . 


. . 


[PARTII 


No . F . 4 - 18 / 63 - C . I. 
S. J. NARSIAN , Asstt. È catic al Advise . 


Suc $ ti ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1969 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2465 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 


8 . 0 . 2167, - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . Govindarajulu and Shri Apurva 
Kumar Chanda as members of the Central Board of Film Censors with effect 
from 27th July , 1963. 


2 . Shri Apurva Kumar Chanda will cease to be a member of the Advisory Panel 
of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the same date . 


[No, F. 11/ 1 /63-FC.] 
S . PADMANABHAN , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2168 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 , read with 
section 4 and sub - section (2 ) of section 5 , of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( II of 1948), the 
Central Government , after considering the advice of thic Committec appointed under sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 5 of the said Act, hereby fixes the minimum rates of wages payable to the persons 
employed in the establishments mentioned in the Table below at the sums indicated against each 
category of persons and directs that this notification shall come into force on and from the 1st 
August, 1963 . 


TABLF. 


1. Agricultural Research Sub - Station ( Indian Agricultural Research Institute ), Karnal. 


Categories of employees 


All inclusive 
minimum wages 

per day 


I . Malo 


. 


. 


? }. Rs. 


2. 00 


Ploughmen ,applying fertilizer, harvesting, so wird and seed cieps ) Rs. 2 .00 

etc . 
2 . Female 
Every kind of work such as harvesting , transplanting and weeding , 1 R 

Rs. 1 75 
etc . . . . 

. . . . . . . ] 
3 . Miscellaneous Male . . . . . . . . . Rs. 1* 75 
4 . Skilled labour such as carpenter assisting in workshop and mechanic Rs. 4 : 50 
5 . Painter . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 4 .00 


II . Wheat Breeding sub - station ( Indian Agricultural Research Institute), Bhowali . 

Casual labour . . . . . . . . . Rs. 2. 00 perday 
Skilled workers like Carpenter , Blacksmith etc. . . Rs . 3. 00 per day 
Monthly man . . . . . . . . Rs. 75.00 per 

month (inclusive 
of the wages for 
the weekly day of 
rest) 


2466 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1963/ $RAVANA 12 , 1885 


PART 11 – 


III. W 11t Breeding sub-station (Indian Agricultural Research Institute), Indore. 
Categories of cmployees 

All inclusive minimum wage per day 
Male — skilled . . . . . . . . . Rs. 3 .00 per day 
Mile - unskilled . . . . . . . . Rs. 2 .00 per day 


IV . Wheat Breeding sub -station (Indian Agricultural Research Institute ), Simla . 
Categories of workers 

All inclusive minimum wages per day 
Daily paid Mazdoors . . . . . . . . Rs. 2 . 00 


V . Whsar Breeding sub -station (Inlian Agricultural Research Institute ), Wellington . 
Categories of workers 

All inclusive minimum wages per day 
Daily paid casual labourers . . . . . . . Rs. 2 .00 


N . B . - The Daily wage rate is exclusive of the wage due for the weekly day of rcst. 

(LWI( I)6 (2 ) 62 ]. 
CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1983 
S . O . 2169. — In the Table appended to the notifcation of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, No . S . O . 1885 , dated the 27th 
June 1963, published on page 2140 of the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 ( ii) , 
dated the 6th July , 1963, under the heading " All inclusive minimum wages per 
day ." , against entry " 2 . Blacksmith , Class II" for " Rs. 4 . 50 " , substitute " Rs. 4 . 00 " . 

[No. LWI( I)6 ( 2 ) / 82 .) 
K . K . UPPAL , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd July 1968 
S . O . 2170 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 915 , dated the 22nd March , 
1963, namely : 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification , serial No . 8 and the entries 
against the said serial number shall be omitted . 

[No, F . 6 ( 83 ) / 63 -HI. ) 


New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 
S . O . 2171. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, No . S . O . 2865 , dated the 2nd 
November, 1981, namely : 
In Schedule IV to the said notification , in the entries against Serial No . 8, 
the entries " Babupeth 

1 . Swastik Glass Works, 

2 . Chanda Ceramics" . 
" Chanda 

1, Shree Paikegi Oil Mills . 
2 . Shree Ganesh Oil Mills . 
3. B . M Chawan & Sons, Bangalore 

Potteries Tiles Manufacturers ," 
occurring in columns 4 and 5 respectively shall be omitted . 

[ No . F . HI-6 ( 141) /69 .} 


SEC . 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 / SRAVANA 12, 1BHK 


2467 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 
S . O . 2172 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following corrections in the Notifcation of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S .O . 2665 , dated 2nd 
November , 1961, published on pages 2897 - 2927 in Part II , sub - section ( il ) of 
section 3 of the Gazette of India , dated 11th November, 1961, namely : -- 
In Schedule IV to the said notification , 
in columns 4 and 5, against serial No. 8, 

for the entry " Chanda - % Government Saw Mills " respectively . 
read " Allapalli- Government Saw Mills " , respectively . 

[No. F . HI-6 ( 141) / 89. ] 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 


S . O . 2173 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Dhori Colliery , Post Office Bermo, District Hazaribagh , Bihar and 
their workmen , which was recelved by the Central Government on the 17th July , 
1963. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD . 


In the matter of a Reference under Section 

Disputes Act, 1947 . 


10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the Industrial 


REFERENCE No. 48 OF 1962 . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Dhori Colliery , P . O . Bermo, District Hazari 
bagh , Bihar , 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M . A ., B .L ., Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers. — Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate. 
For the Workmen . Sri B . Dubey, President, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Dhori 

Branch , 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coul, 
Dhanbad , dated the 10th July , 1963 , 

AWARD 
This reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, was 
referred by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, to this 
Tribunal, under Order No. 2 / 103 /62- LRII, dated 27th November , 1962, for adjudi 
cation of the industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to 
Dhori Colliery and their workmen in respect of the matter specified below : 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Ram Shakal Pandey, Munshi, by the Manage 

ment of Dhori Colliery is commensurate with the nature and extent 
of the acts or omissions committed by Shri Pandey in over - reporting 
tubs on 29th April, 1962 ? If not, to what relief is the workmen 
entitled " 


2468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1968 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


(PART II -- 


2 . In this case none of the two parties Aled any written statement. When no 
written statement was received from any side the case was fixed for hearing on 
22nd July , 1983 , at Tilaiya Dam , and the parties were directed to file their written 
statements , if any , by this time. Meanwhile , today ( 10th July , 1905 ) , both the 
parties filed a joint petition of compromise dated 10th July , 1983, setting out their 
agreed terms of settlement, signed by the Manager of the Colliery , by the Presi 
dent, Colliery Mazdoor Sangh and also by the workman concerned , Sri R . S . 
Pandey , and , prayed that an award be made in terms thereof. 

3 . I have read the terms of the compromise and am satisfied that they are 
reasonable and fair and in the interest of both the parties, and , therefore , I accept 
the said compromise . 

4 . The result, therefore, is that this reference is disposed of in terms of the 
Baid petition of compromise and an award is made in terms thereof, as jointly 
prayed and the compromisc is marked Annexure A and made a part of this 
award . 

5 . This is my award which I make and submit to the Government of India 
under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Sd . ) - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD, 

Presiding Oncer , 


DHANBAD , 
The 10th July , 1963. 


Central Govt., Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


ANNEXURE A 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No . 48 OF 1962 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Dhori Colltery , P .O . Bermo (Frazaribagh ) . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Bermo 

(Hazaribagh ) . 
The humble petition on behalf of the above named parties beg to submit as 
follows: 

That without prejudice to the contentions of the parties made in their respec 
tive written statement the dispute has been settled on the following terms: 

1 . That Shri Ram Shakal Pandey , the workman concerned in the present reference , 
will not press his claim for reinstatement. 

2 . That the employers will give to Sri Ram Shakal Pandey a lump sum of 
Rs. 1 , 100 only ( rupees one thousand one hundred only ) within seven days from 
the date of this settlement. 

3 . That the workman or anybody on his behalf will have no claim against the 
employers on any other account. 

4 . That the parties will bear their own respective costs of the present proceed 
Ings . 

It is, therefore, humbly prayed that the Reference may be disposed off and an 
Award passed in terms aforesaid , 

For employers 
Sd .! - Illegible . 
Manager , Dhori Colliery. 
Sd ./ - Illegible . 

President. 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
Branch : Dhori Colllery 
P . O . Bermo (Hazaribagh ) . 


BEC. ( ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1965 /SRAVANA 12, 1887 


2469 


Filed before me at Dhanbad , 
Sd . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD, 

10 - 7 - 63 . 
Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt., Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 
Sd. / - RAMSAKAL PANDEY , workman , 
Witness : Sri B . SINGH , 

10 - 7 -63 


[No. F . 2 / 103 /62- LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 
S . O . 2174 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under Section 33A of the 
said Act from Shri Kamaluddin , Miner of Md, Saf , Malkera Choitodih Colliery 
Post Office Malkera , District Dhanbad , which was recolved by the Central Govern 
ment on 20th July , 1963. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 

In the matter of a Complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 ( XIV of 1947) . 

REF . COMPLAINT No . 13 OF 1961 

(Arising out of Reference No. 49 of 1960 ) 
PARTIES ; 

Sri Kamaluddin , Miner of Md . Sai , Malkcra - Choitodih Colllery , P . O . Malkera , 
Dt. Dhanbad. -- Complainant 

Versus 
The Management of Malkera Chottodih Colllery of Messrs. Tata Iron and Steel 
Co. Ltd ., P . O . Malkera , Dt. Dhanbad : - Opposite party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B .L ., Presiding Officer : 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Complainant : Shri Sankar Bose, Member, Central Executive Committee, 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , with Sri Kamaluddin . 

For the opposite Party : Shri G . Prasad , Chief Personnel Omcer , Messrs. Tata 
Iron and Steel Co. Ltd . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal, 


Dhanbad , dated the 27th May , 1963 


AWARD 


This complaint was made under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 , by Sri Kamaluddin , Miner of Mohd , Safi , on 20th September , 1961 in Reference 
No, 49 of 1960 . 


2 . In response to the notice issued by the Tribunal the management opposite 
party filed a rejoinder on 18th November 1961. 


3 . As the case was an old one and it was lying undisposed of, on 13th May 1963, 
I issued notices to both the parties fixing 27th May 1963 for hearing , and , in response 
to the said notice Sri G . Prasad , Chief Personnel Officer of the Opposite party, has 
appeared for the opposite party company and Sri Sankar Bose has appeared for the 
workman concerned along with the complainant himself , who was present in person , 


2470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8, 1969 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


PART 11 


4 . Shri G . Praşad , on behalf of the opposite party , took a preliminary objection 
to the maintainability of the complaint on the ground that the complainant was not 
at all concerned in the dispute which was pending in Reference No. 49 of 1960, In 
which the present complaint has been made, and , therefore , there was no question 
of any contravention of Section 33 of the Act , and , accordingly , the present com 
plaint was not maintainable . 

6 . Sri Sankar Bose , on behalf of the complainant, has Aled a petition , in these 
circumstances , for permission to withdraw the complaint. 

6 . It may be noted that the present complaint, having been Aled on 20th Septem 
ber 1961, was pending so long in this Tribunal and it is only after about two years 
that I took up the matter on 13th May 1963, for which the complainant is not to be 
blamed . 

7. With the above observations, the complainant is permitted to withdraw his 
complaint, and , accordingly the complaint stands withdrawn . There will be no 
order for costs . 

8 . This is the Award which I make and submit to the Central Government under 
Section 15 of the Act . 
DHANBAD, 

Sd ./ - RAJ KISHORE PRABAD , 
The 27th May , 1963. 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

(No. 1 / 39 / 60 -LR . II. ) 
New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 


8 . 0 . 2176 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the matter of nine applications under Section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Ramcharan and others , C / o General Secretary , 
Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha , Post Office Jhagrakhand Colliery , District Surguja , 
Madhya Pradesh , which was received by the Central Government on the 20th 
July , 1963 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of Complaints under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, (XIV of 47 ) . 

Complaints Nos . 39 , 41 , 42 , 43 , 44 , 45 , 46 , 47, and 48 of 1962 . 

(arising out of Reference No . 73 of 1961 ) 
PARTIES : 

1. Ramcharan and 103 Miners ( Complaint No. 39 of 62 ) 
2 . Bhugwat and 103 Miners ( Complaint No. 41 of 62 ) 
3 . Malikram and 103 Miners ( Complaint No. 42 of 62 ) 
4 . Katanoo and 103 Miners (Complaint No . 43 of 62) 
5 . Santram and 103 Miners ( Complaint No. 44 of 62 ) 
6 . Samaroo and 103 Miners (Complaint No. 45 of 62 ) 
7. Line Das and 103 Miners ( Complaint No. 46 of 62 ) 
8 . Boharan and 103 Miners (Complaint No. 47 of 62 ) 
9. Pardeshi and 103 Miners (Complaint No. 48 of 62 ) 

Complainants. 
C / o General Secretary , Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha, P .O . Jhagrakhand 

Colliery , Dt. Surguja . M . P . 


Vs. 
Manager . Jhagrakhand Colllery, P . O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , Distt. Surguja , 

M . P . - Opposite party . 


PRESENT ; 


Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B .L ., Presiding Omcer . 


SEC. 8 (U )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 8, 1968 / SRAVANA 12. 1888 


2470 


APPEARANCES : 

For the Complainants. Sri Anil Das Chaudhuri , Advocate. 
For the Opposite party . - Sri G . R . Bhandari, Chief Welfare Officer, Jhagra -- 

khand Collieries , 
STATE : Madhya Pradesh 

INDUSTRY : Coal . 
Dhanbad , dated the 28th May , 1963 

AWARD 


These nine complaints are taken up together at the request of Sri Anil Das 
Choudhury , Advocate, representing the complainants in each of these nine cases . 
Sri Choudhury has Aled a petition today ( 28th May 1963 ) under his signature 
praying for permission to withdraw these nine complaints on the ground that. 
these nine complaints are already included in Complaints Nos. 40 and 49 of: 
1962, which are pending . 

2 . In these circumstances , permission is granted to the complainants to with . . 
draw their aforesaid nine complaints . These nine complaints , accordingly , stand 
withdrawn in terms of the petition of withdrawal Aled for all the nine cases 
together. 

3 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government . 
under Section 15 of the Act . 

Sd . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Oficer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad , 
[No. 4 / 38 / 61 - LR .II.) 


New Delhi, the 29th July 1969 
8 . 0 . 2176 . — Whereas , the award of Shri G . Palit , Central Government Indus -- 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in respect of the industrial dispute referred to him 
under clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , by the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment, No. S . O . 1302, dated the 12th May , 1960, was publish 
ed in Part II , Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India , dated The 13th 
August, 1960 , with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment, No. S . O . 2024 , dated the 6th August, 1960 ; 

And , whereas , the award made by Shri G . Palit was set aside by the Hon ble 
High Court of Judicature at Patna in M . J . C . Appeal No . 725 of 1960 and the 
said industrial dispute was remanded to the Central Government Industrial Tribu 
nal, Dhanbad , for a fresh award ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government Industrial Tribunal has made a fresh 
award in respect of the aforesaid industrial dispute ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 17 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947, the Central Government hereby publishes the award 
of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in respect of the said 
industrial dispute , which was received by the Central Government on the 18th 
July , 1963 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 
In the matter of a Reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Dig 
putes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) 

REFERENCE No. 23 OF 1960 . 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Khas Karanpura Colliery 

AND 
Their workmen , 


2472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART II 


PRESENT; 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M .A ., B .L ., Presiding Officer. 


APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers: Shri S . S . Mukherjea , Advocate , 
For the workmen : Shri S . K . Mukherjee , Advocate, with Shri P . B . D . 

Choudhury , Honorary Secretary , Colliery Staff Association . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 7th April, 1963 . 

AWARD 
This reference has been remanded by the Hon ble High Court at Patna, after 
- setting aside the award dated the 25th July , 1960 of my predecessor in office 
the late Shri G . Palit with the following direction : 
“ We further direct that the case will now go back to the Central Govern 

ment Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , for hearing Reference No . 23 
of 1960 afresh and for giving fresh award in accordance with law . 
We should like to make it clear that it will be open to the parties 
to adduce further evidence , if they so choose , before the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal." 


2 . On behalf of the management, Sri S . S . Mukherjca , Advocate , and , on 
behalf of the workmen , Sri S , K . Mukherjee , Advocate , appeared . On 7th 
February 1963 , when the case was taken up for hearing, on behalf of the work 
men , Sri S . K . Mukherjec filed some more documents , which , by mutual con 
sent, were marked Exhibits 5 to 8 ( a ) . Sii S . K . Mukherjee, however, did not 
want to examine any fresh witness besides those who had already been examin 
ed on behalf of the workmen before remand . Sri S . S . Mukherjea , on behalf 
of the management, wanted to examine one witness with regard to Exhibit 5 , 
filed on behalf of the workmen , and , therefore, the case was adjourned to 26th 
March 1963 , on which date Sri S . S . Mukherjea stated that he did not want to 
examine any witness or to file any fresh document. The result, therefore, was 
that neither parties adduced any oral evidence after remand , although they were 
given an opportunity to do so , as directed by the High Court . The parties , 
accordingly , on the oral evidence of witnesses examined on behalť of both sides 
before remand and on documents filed by the management before l emand and 
on documents filed by the workmen before and after remand , were heard at 
length on 6th April 1963, on which date , after hearing the parties , the award 
was reserved . 


3 . The Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India , by its Order 
No . 2 / 81 / 60 - LRII, dated the 12th May, 1960, referred , under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Act ) , the 
following industrial dispute to this Tribunal for adjudication 
" Whether the retrenchment of Sarvashri D . K . Sen Gupta , Prabhu Dayal 

and P . R . Sarkar with effect from 18th November , 1959 was justif 
ed . If not, to what relief are they entitled ? ” 


4 . On behalf of the concerned workmen their Union , Colliery Staff Associa 
tion , on 6th January 1960 submitted statement of demands before the Concilia 
tion Officer ( Central ) , Hazaribagh , which was treated as their written statement 
in the reference on behalf of the workmen . In the said written statement, the 
main case of the Union was that the notice of retrenchment, dated 15th October 
1959 served upon these three concerned workmen was mulafide, unjustified and 
illegal, and was by way of victimisation , because on 5th October 1959 a Labour 
Union , with Prabhu Dayal as Joint Secretary, D . K . Sen Gupta as Organising 
Secretary and P . K . Sarkar as Omce Secretary , was formed of the workmen of 
this Colliery ; that the principle of last come, first go has not been followed , 
inasmuch as , there were many junior staff to these concerned workmen in this 
Colliery , but they had not been retrenchied ; that there had been no decrease of 
Coal Mining Operation in this Colliery as alleged by the management in its 
notice of retrenchment, dated 15th Ortoher 1959 . and , therefore , there was no 
Justification whatsoever for retrenching these workmen . On these grounds these 
concorar! workmen prayed for their reinstatement with all privileges and 
benefits . 


SEC 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1968 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2.473 


5 . In its rejoinder , filed by the management on 3rd June 1960, it was stated 
that the retrenchment of these concerned workmen was bonafide and that the 
junior most in the category were selected for retrenchment; that the concerned 
workmen were surplus to requirements and no new workmen have been appoint 
ed in thcir places; that since August 1959 there was a downward trend in the 
output on account of the mining difficulties and as there was / is no immediate 
prospect in the increase of raising, and , therefore, the retrenchment of these 
workmen , who were surplus to requirements , was bonafide and justified. On 
these grounds the management alleged that these concerned workmen were not 
entitled to any relief. 


6 . The workmen , in support of their case , examined before remand P . W . 1, 
D . K . Sen Gupta and P . W . 2 P . R . Sarkar, two of the concerned workmen , and , 
filed documents before remand , which were marked Exhibits 1 to 4 , and , after 
the remand , which were marked Exhibits 5 to 8 ( a ) 


7 . The management also examined before remand , in support of its case , 
O . P . W . 1, D . K . Sinha , Labour Welfare Omcer , and , also Aled documents before 
remand which were marked Exhibits A to G ( 1 ). 


8 . My learned predecessor in office , the late Sri G . Palit, on consideration of 
the cvidence, oral and documentary , before him gave his award on 25th July 
1960, in favour of the concerned workmen holding that their retrenchment was 
not justified and that they had been victimised by the management for their acti 
vities in forming a Union , and, therefore , directed thcir reinstatement and also 
allowed compensation for the period of forced idleness from 16th November 1959 
upto the date of reinstatement at the rate of half their usual wages payable in two 
consecutive equal monthly instalments immediately after his award became 
operative . 


9 . Against the said award , M . L . Sharma & Company , the Employers of the 
Colliery , filed an application under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution before 
the Patna High Court, which was numbered as M . J . C . 725 of 1960, and subse 
quently , it was heard and decided by Their Lordships, Ramaswami C . J. and 
Untwalia , J , who by a joint judgmunt dated 3rd November 1962 set aside the 
award on the ground that " the finding of the Tribunal arc coloured and vitiated " 
by a vital error of record , mentioned in the judgment, and , accordingly , remanded 
the reference for re - hearing and to dispose of it afresh in accordance with law , 
with the direction set out before , 

10 . The facts are these : 

( a ) On 15th October 1959, the Manager of the Colliery issu d a notice Exhibit 
F to eight workers, including the three concerned workmen , with whom we are 
concerned , informing them that " due to the d - crease in the Coal Mining Operation 
and consequent reduction in the volume of work , your services will no longer be 
required with effect from 16th November 1959 . Please note that you are junior 
most in your category " . It was further stated in the said notice, Exhibit F . that 
" if you have any objection as to your categorisation / designation or in the order in 
which your name appears in the Siniority list posted on the Notice Board , you 
will plcase inform the undersigned ( i. e . the Manager ) in writing within seven 
days, stating the reason for your objection along with the copies of any documents 
in support of your contention ." 

(b ) The seniority list , referred to in this notice of retrenchment, Exhibit F , 
which was hung up on the notice board , is Exhibit G , and , as it is very important 
1 reproduce it below in extenso . The eight retrenched workers have been under 
lined by me, the three concerned workmen being underlined throughout: 
" Seniorit list . 


Clerk Gr. III 


Name 


Date of appoint 

ment 


- - 


- 


· 


· 


I - 1 -55 
74 - 1 - In , 


, 


· 
. 


· Shri M . Tonne . 
- PR Salon 
. „ RC. Mukherjee 


3. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


17-4-<7 


2474 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12 , 1888 


PART II 


Clerk Gr. III 


Nairie 


Date of appoint 

11871 


Registor Keepers 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


· Sri Mundrika Singh . 

ndrika Singh . 
, S . C . Nayak , 

D , P . Ambasts 
» D . K . Sen Gupta 
„ Prabhu Dayal . 


. 
. 
. 


1 - 5 - 1953 
1 - 8 - 1954 
8 - 5 - 1955 
15 - 5 - 1955 


Hamasjon 


21 - 7 - 1956 
24 - 5 - 1958 


• 
• 
. 


: 
. 


. 


- » S . S . Patra 
. » Rames . Missra . 


DA 


. 


. 


. 


. 


MV 


Chaprashis : 


Hส่ 


. 


งที่ 


.......... 


• » Sanu Manghce . 

„ Devnath Singh . 
» Janki Singh 

Kanu Gopc 

Sitaram Yaday , 
» Kamela Singh . 
» Raghbir Singh 
» Sukhdev Singh . 
» Solbahadur 
» Sitarom Sao 


... :.::. 


I - 10 - 1949 

26 - 4 - 1952 
. 16 - 10 - 1993 
. 4 - 1 - 1953 
, 19 - 1 - 1953 
• I - I - 1958 
24 - II - 1955 

TO - I - 1956 
24 - 5 - 1956 
12- 9 - 1956 


ต่ 


ง 


N . B . - Persons having objection to their date of appointment or Categorisa 
tion / Designation will inform the undersigned ( i.e . the Manager) with the docu 
mentary proof in support of his contention ." 


( c ) On 16th October 1959 , a notice of retrenchment, as required by Section 
25F ( c ) of the Act read with Rule 76 of the Industrial Disputes ( Central) Rules, 
1957 , in Form P was sent by the management to the Secretary to the Government 
of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by the Manager of the Colliery , 
which is Exhibit G ( 1 ) , and , the statement of reasons for retrenchment, mentioned 
therein , as required by Form P , which is referred to in Rule 76 , wag glven as 
" Decrease in the Coal Mining Operation and consequent reduction in the volume 
of work ." 


( d ) The matter , thereafter , was taken to the Conciliation Officer (Central) . 
Hazaribagh , by the Union , Colliery Staft Association , and , the Conciliation Officer 
submitted on 21st March 1960 his failure report and then the present reference 
was made on 12th May 1960 , 23 stated earlier. 


11. The first question for determination , thereforc , is, whether the reasons 
given by the management for issuing retrenchment notice Exhibits F and G ( 1 ) 
were correct and bonafide . On this question , both the parties placed reliance on 
the extract of total raisings of coal prepared from monthly returns, Exhibit A , 
which was accepted to be correct on behalf of the workmen also . In view of the 
fact that the retrenchment notice was given on 15th October 1959 and these con 
cerned workmen , along with the five others , with whom we are not concerned in 
this reference as their cases have not been referred to this Tribunal for adjudica 
tion , were retrenched with effect from 16th November 1959, the material months, 
for deciding the question . whether reasons given for retrenchment by the manage 
ment in Exhibit F and Exhibit G ( 1 ) are correct and bonafide, which have been 
relied upon by both the parties, are January , 1959 to November 1959 as given in 
Exhibit A . Exhibit A contains the total raisings of coal from January 1959 to 
May 1960 , and , in my opinion , the total raisings of coal from December 1959 to 
May 1960 , which are also mentioned in Exhibit A , are not very material, The 
crucial dates for deciding the question under consideration are October 1950 , 
when on 15th October 1959 the notices of retrenchment Exhibit F was given to 
eight persons, including these three workmen and November 1959 , in which month , 
with effect from 18th November 1959, these eight workmen , including the three 
concerned workmen , were retrenched . 


Sec. 3( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2475 


- 


- 


- 


12. As Exhibit A has ben relied upon by both the parties and it has been 
admitted on behalf of the worlmen to be correct and the decision of the question 
posed by me in Paragraph 11 above depends on it, it would be useful to reproduce 
it in extenso here. It is as below : 
" Extract from Monthly returns (which are 34 sheets ) and are all marked Echibit 


A . 


Months 


Total Raising 


, 


7308 
6784 
6220 
6929 
4904 


5867 


Jan . 59 . 
Feb . 59 . 
March 59 
April 59 
May 59 
June 59 
July , 59 
Aug. 59 . 
Sept. 59 
Oct. 59 . 
Nov , 59 
Dec . 59 . 
Jan . 60 . 
Feb . 60 
March 00 
April 60 
May 60 


7347 
6492 
5324 


4174 


SISI 
4899 

4943 
, 4925 

4783 
5277 
1791 


eniten Octobe these are therefubmi 


Sd. / - D . K , SINHA, 

LO 

. Correctly complied ." 
13 . Sri S . S . Mukherjea , relying on Exhibit A , submitted that the raising 
position of coal was everyday going down , and , therefore , the management had 
to retrench eight workmen , including these three workmen and to give them 
notices of retrenchment on 15th October 1959. Sri S . K . Mukherjee , on behalf 
of the workmen , however, contended that if there was decrease in the raising 
position of coal it was temporary , as will appear from Exhibit A itself , as it 
shows rise in one month and fall in another and vice versa , and , therefore , on 
the figures mentioned in Exhibit A , there was no justification whatsoever for 
the management to retrench these three concerned workmen as also the other 
five workmen along with these workmen . It was further contended , on behalf 
of the workmen , that on the evidence of O . P . W . 1, Labour Welfare Officer , the 
Colliery was having development work which was going on ; the Colliery had 
also started second outlet of the old incline which was already there , and , over 
burden work was also still going on , and , therefore it cannot be said that these 
eight retrenched workmen had become surplus, and , as such , their services were 
no longer required by the management. 


14 . After considering the arguments , presented on behalf of both the parties. 
on the question whether retrenchment was justified and bona fide, I find that 
the argument on behalf of the workmen is more convincing as it is fully supported 
by Exhibit A and the evidence of O .P . W .1 . 


15 . From Exhibit A , it will appear that the highest total raising between 
January to October 1959 was in January 1959 when it was 7 , 308 and the lowest was 
in October 1959 when it was 4 , 174 . It further appears that the total raising was 
fluctuating and it was not constant, in as much as , although in March 1959 the 
total raising came down to 6 , 220 , next month in April 1959 it rose to 6 , 929 , then 
in May 1959 it came down to 4 , 904 , and in June 1959 it rose to 5 , 867 and in July 
1969 it still rose higher to 7, 347 . There was then a fall in August 1959 when it 
was 6 , 492, which decr - ased further in September 1959 to 5 ,324 and in October 
1959 to 4 , 174 but in November 1959 it again went up to 5 , 151. From the total 
raising given in Exhibit A from January 1959 to May 1960 , it cannot be said 
that there was a definite decrease every month in the Coal Mining Operation 
between January 1959 to October 1959, and , therefore , there was consequent 


247 ; 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1968 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


Part II 


rerluction of volume of work . It is true that in October 1958 the total raising of 
4 , 174 was the lowest, as compared with the previous months from January 1959 
to September 1959. But the retrenchment notice Exhibit T was surved on 15th 
October 1959, and therefore , on that date the total raising for September 1959 had 
to be taken into consideration . In September 1959, the total raising was 5 ,324 
which was no doubt lower than the total raising in June, 1959, or July , 1959 or 
August , 1959 but it was higher than what it was in May , 1959. If the total raising 
of October 1959 was 4 , 174 it cannot be said to be any ground for issuing retrench 
ment notice when the decrease was not steady and constant but Auctuating . 
Froin Exhibit A it appears that there was only a temporary decrease in October 
1959, but it went on increasing in the months previous to October 1959 and also 
in the months after October 1959. 


Even if it be assumed that because the total raising in October 1959 came to 
4 , 174 , as against 5 ,324 in September 1959 ; 6 ,492 in August 1959 and 7, 374 in July 
1959, the management had reasonable apprehension that there was a steady 
decrease in the total raising , and , therefore , it was justified in issuing retrench 
ment notice on 15th October 1959 ( Exhibit F ) , but, according to the retrenchment 
notice Exhibit F , these eight workmen , including these three workmen , were 
not required in service with effect from 16th November 1959, and when in 
November 1959, the total raising increased to 5 , 151 by 977 , if the retrenchment 
notice was bonafide, the management would have easily re - considered the 
retrenchment notice and cancelled it in view of the increase in the output next 
month , 

On the basis of Exhibit A , therefore , I am satisfid that the reason given for 
the retrenchment, namely , decrease in the coal mining operation and consequent 
reduction in volume of work was not justified . 

16 . There is another circumstance to support my above conclusion . If due 
to decrease in the coal mining operation , it became imperative on the part of 
the management to retrench these eight workmen , including these three con 
cerned workmen , then the miners , trammers, etc ., working in the mine should 
also have been retrenched . But surprisingly enough only the clerical staff is 
retrenched including the two chaprasis , and not a single miner or trammer and 
the like, is retrenched . Why so ? There is no explanation whatsoever on behalf 
of the managment. If the other workers of the Colliery , such as trammers. 
miners, etc ., are retained in service , then as rightly pointed out on behalf of the 
workmen , the volume of work of the clerical staff remains the same, and there 
could be no decrease at all in the volume of work of clerical staff . I also cannot 
understand if really there was decrease in the coal raising why the miners and 
trammers who were working underground and also those workers who were 
working on the surface and were connected with the coal mining operation were 
not retrenched at all. This circumstance , in my opinion , support very strongly 
the contention of the workmen that the retrenchment of these workmen con 
cerned was malafide and not at all bonafide and justified . 

17 . Another fact has also to be taken into consideration in deciding the question 
of bonafide of retrenchment. We cannot ignore the evidence of O . P . W . 1, Labour 
Welfare Officer, examined on behalf of the management. O . P . W . 1 towards the end 
of his cross- examination has admitted that : 


" Khas Karanpura Colliery is having development work . We have started 

second outlet of the old incline that is already there. In this colllery 
we are still going on with the over -burden work . The employer con 
templates appointing some contractors for the said purpose . 


Two of the three workmen concerned examined themselves as P . W .1 and P . W . 2 . 
P . W . 1 D . Sen Gupta stated that the reason given in the retrenchment notice is 
not correct and that there has been an increase in the volume of work in this 
colliery during the time of their retrenchment, in as much as , two new quarties have 
recently been opened 4 or 5 months back ; electricity has been installed in February 
last; and , the number of stall has also been increased , 


18 . The fact that a new appointment has been made in the clerical staff as 
deposed to by P . W . I is supported by Exhibit 5 . Exhibit 5 shows that one Joseph 
Minz was appointed as Attendance Clerk on 20th September 1960 , that is , after 
the retrenchment of the workmen concerned . It may be mentioned that Sri S . S . 
Mukherjee , on behalf of the management, admitted that these three concerned 
workmen were doing the same job and were in the same category in which 
Joseph Minz was appointed . Admittedly , when this fresh appointment was made as 


SEC. 3(ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST ), 1968 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2477 


appears from Exhibit 5 , these three workmen concerned , who had been retrenched , 
and who were also attendance clerks, as admitted by Sri S , S . Mukherjee , on 
behalt of the management, were not given any opportunity at all to appear and 
to get themselves considered for this fresh appointment, 


It may further be mentioned that according to both parties an attendance clerk 
is in Grade II , whereas , a Register Keeper is in Grade III, but both do the same 
job and are in the same category of clerks to which the six clerks including the 
three workmen , were retrenched . The three concerned workmen and the three 
others, namely , R . C . Mukherjee , S . S . Patra and Ramesh Missra mentioned in 
Exhibit G were all Attendance Clerks. When appolating Joseph Minz on 20th 
September, 1960 ( Exhibit 5 ) even the other three workers , just named , were not 
glven any opportunity to appear before the management. The management did 
not consider their cases also while making this fresh appointment. If such a fresh 
appcintment is made and the retrenched workmen were not given any opportunity 
and were not absorbed , it clearly shows that the retrenchment made earlier by the 
management was malafide. It may be mentioned that in the notice Exhibit G ( 1 ) , 
which was given in Form P as required by Rule 76 of the Rules, the Register 
Keepers, such as , D . K . Sen Gupta , and , Prabhu Dayal, with whom we are concerned 
and the clerks, such as , P . R . Sirkar, with whom also we are concerned , have all 
been put in Grade III . According to Exhibit G ( 1 ) , therefore , all the six workers , 
who were clerks or register keepers , and , all doing the work of an Attendance 
Clerk , were put in one category, i.e ., Category III, 


19 . For the reasons given above, I held that the retrenchment of these three 
workmen , with whom alone we are concerned , was not bonafide and justified , and , 
that the reasons given for their retrenchment, as mentioned in the retrenchment 
notice Exhibi F and also in Exhibit G ( 1 ) , are not correct and bonafide. 


20 . The next question for consideration is when there was no justification on 
the part of the management to retrench these three workmen concerned , with 
whom alone we are concerned in the present case, and , when there was no 
decrease in the output and when there was no decrease in the coal raising or in 
the volume of work in the clerical staff, as held above by me, why did the manage 
ment issue this retrenchment notice Exhibit F and Exhibit G ( 1 ) and why did it 
retrench them with effect from 16th November 1959 ? 


The reason given by the workmen is that due to their union activities they 
have been victimised . In support of their case they have relied on certain 
documents as also on oral evidence . I shall first deal with the documentary 
evidence . Exhibit 4 shows that a general meeting of the workers of this Khas 
Karanpura Colllery was held on 5th October 1959 at which a Union of the work 
men of this Colliery was formed and its office bearers were elected under the 
Congress banner , From Exhibit 4 it turlher appears that Prabhu Dayul was 
elected the Joint Secretary , D , K . Sen Gupta was elected as Organising Secretary 
and P . R . Sarkar was elected as Office Secretary of this new Union , which was 
named as Khas Karanpura Colllery Workers Union . Exhibit 4 provided that 
this Union should be registered under thc Trade Union Act, 1926 . This new union 
formed on 5th October , 1959 , as admitted by P . W . 1 , was registered in Maroh . 
1960 . 


It is immediately after the formation of the new Union on 5th October 1959 
in this Colliery for the first time, that 10 days later the retrenchment notice war 
Issued to eight workers, including these three workmen cercerned, on 15th October 
1961, Exhibit F . On Exhibit 4 , therefore , which is not denied by the manage 
ment, there is no doubt that these threc workmen concerned were retrenched due 
to their being office bearers and active members of this Union . 


It was contended , in this connection , by Sri S . S . Mukherjee that it that was so ; 
then why the other five workmen , whose names did not appear as office -bearers. 
or members of this new Union in Exhibit 4 , were at all retrenched . I am not called 
upon to express any opinion on the retrenchment of the other flye retrenched 
workmen , when their cases have not been referred to this Tribunal for adjudica 
tion by the Central Government. But as far as these three workmen are concerned 
their gricvance that their services have been terminated by retrenching them and 
that they were not considered for a fresh appointment, when fresh appointment 
was made on 20th September 1959, as appears from Exhibit 5 , due to their Union 
activities and due to their being office bearers of this new Union seems to be 
correct. 


2478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1968 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


PART II – 


21 . In the written statement Aled by the workmen the specific defence of 
P , R , Sarkar and D . K . Sen Gupta , the two of the three workmen is mentioned in 
paras 8 and 10. 


D . K . Sen Gupta : 

( a ) The case of D . K . Sen Gunta P . W . 1 is dealt with in para 8 of the workmen s 
written statement, in which It is said that he was appointed on 1st May , 1955 , as 
Attendance Clerk , but was wrongly placed in Grade III, for which there was an 
Industrial dispute in Reference No . 44 of 1959 , which was decided in his favour 
and by which he was placed in Grade II with retrospective effect and this retrench 
ment notice was served during the pendency of the said reference . On looking into 
- the records of Reference No. 14 of 1959, it appears that it was referred to this 

Tribunal on 30th June 1959, and , the Industrial dispute which was referred under 
the said reference and which existed between the employers in relation to Khas 
Karanpura Colliery and their workmen was, " whether the management of the 
Khas Karanpura Colliery was justified in designating Sarva Shri Mundrika Singh , 
D . P . Ambasta and D . K . Sen Gupta as Register Keepers while implementing the 
award of the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) as modified by the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal. If not, to what relief they are entitled ? " My pre 
decessor - in - offico , Shri Salim M , Merchant, on 6th October 1959 gave his award , 
by which he held that the management of Khas Karanpura Colliery was not 
Justified in designating the workmen concerned as Register Keepers while Imple 
menting the Coal Award , and , that they were entitled to be designated as Atten 
dance Clerks and as such entitled to Grade II Clerks wages. It is therefore , 
manifest that the said Reference No . 44 of 1959, was received on 4th July , 1959, 
And disposed of on 6th October 1959 . and , immediately , thereafter , the retrench 
ment notice was given on 15th October 1959, although the award till then was 
not known to the parties concerned as it had not been published in the official 
Gazetted . But the fact remains that the case of D . K . Sen Gupta raised an indus 
trial dispute , which was pending at the time of his retrenchment in Reference 
No. 44 of 1959, in as much as, the award made on 6th October 1959 was published 
on 24th October 1959 in the Gazette of India during the pendency of that dispute , 
and , therefore , the proceeding in the said Reference under section 20 ( 3 ) of the Act, 
must be deemed to be pending . and , the present retrenchment order was issued 
against him on 15th October , 1959. The allegation of D . K . Sen Gupta that he 
was victimised for his Union activities and for raising an industrial disputo is 
correct. 


P . R . Sarkar 

(b ) The case of P . R . Sarkar is dealt with in para 10 of the workmen s written 
statement. He is P . W . 2 and his case is that he was the only typist of the Colliery , 
and , therefore, there being no other typist , there can be no justification for his 
retrenchment, but he was retrenched because his case of gradation and designation 
was pending before the appropriate Government. This dispute ultimately resulted 
in Reference No. 61 of 1960 . From the records of Reference No. 61 of 1980 it 
appears that the Union submitted its statement of demands on behalf of P , R . Sarkar , 
Typist on 28th May , 1959 , and , thereafter , the matter was taken up by the 
Conciliation Omcer , who , however , submitted his Failure Report on 21st September , 
1939 , and thereafter Reference No. 61 of 1960 was made on 27th February 1960 . 


Exhibit 8 ( a ) is the award , made in Reference No . 61 of 1960 in corporating 
the agreement Annexure A arrived at between the partles on 21st May 1962. 
Exhibit 8 ( a ) shows that a reference was marle under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the 
Act on 27th December , 1900 for adjudication of the following dispute : 


" Having regard to the nature of the duties carried out by Shri P . R . Sircar, 

clerk of the Khas Karanpura Colliery, whether the action of the 
management in placing him in Grade IIT as per Award of the All 
India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) , as modified by the 
Labour Appellate Tribunal , can be justified ? If not, to what reller 
is he entitled , and with effect from which date after the 28th May 
1959. " 


" This reference was compromised between the parties on 21st May , 1962, and , 
on the basis of the said agreement Annexure A to Exhibit 8 ( a ) the award was 
given on 23rd May , 1962 . In the said agreemnent, which is a part of Exhibit 8 ( a ) , 
P . R . Sircar is described as " Typist " of the Colliery , and was placed in Grade II 
of the Clerical Grade with effect from 28th May, 1959 . 


SEC. Mii)] 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2479 


It was argued , on behalf of the workmen , that P , R . Sirkar was the only 
typist in the Colliery and therefore there was no justification to retrench him . 
In this connection , reliance was placed on Exhibit 2 and the agreement just 
referred to , which is a part of the award Exhibit 8 ( a ) . The agreement Annexure 
A to Exhibit 8 ( a ) , dated 21st May, 1962 does show that P . R . Sirkar has been 
described as “ Typist of Khas Karanpura Colliery " , Exhibit 2 further shows that 
the Manager issued a letter to P . R Sarkar , describing him as Clerk , on 10th May , 
1959 in which it was mentioned that the typing machine was under his charge , and , 
therefore , no unauthorised person should be allowed to handle the typewriter . 
The Manager further gave directions that besides him and Administrative Officer , 
three other persons mentioned by him therein may use the typewriter . Exhibit 2 
thus does give the jinpression that P , R . Sirkar was the only typist of the Colliery , 
and , therefore , the typewiiter was under his charg . Reading , therefore, Exhibit 
2 along with the agreement dated 21st May , 1962, Annexure A to Exhibit 8 ( a ) , 
which is part of the award Exhibit 8 ( a ) it is clear that the contention , on behalf of 
the workm - n , that P . R . Sirkar was the only typist of the Colliery is correct. 

In reply , to this , however, it was contended by Sri S . S . Mukherjea, on behalf 
of the management, that when volume of work had decreased and on the evidence 
of 0 . P . W . l , the average volume of typing work was four letters a day , it cannot 
be said that the services of P . R . Sircar . in such a situation , should not have 
been retrenched . On the evidence of O . P . W . 1 , P . R . Sirkar was not the only 
typict in this Colliery , and , the typing work was mainly done by C . C . Chatterjee 
and also by T . P . Banerjee, and , though T . P . Banerjee had left service , 
C , C . Chatterjee was still in the Colliery . The name of C . C . Chatterjee , is men 
tioned in Exhibit 2, but he has not been mentioned as the typist in charge of 
the typewriter , but only us one of the thre persons, named in Exhibit 2 , who 
had been permitted to use the typewritis . 


For these reasons, in my opinion , the contention , on behalf of the workmen 
that P . R . Sirkar was the only typist of the Colliery , and , therefore , his retrench 
ment was unjustifed , appcars correct 


Prabhu Dayal : 

The third workman concerned is Prabhu Dayal , whose case has not been dealt 
with specifically in the written statement but a reference to him has been made 
in Para 9 of the written statement in which it was said that he was appointed 
on 21st August, 1956 . There was no previous case between him and the manage 
ment, and that seems to be the reason why no specifti defence was taken in the 
written statement. It is true that Prabhu Dayal was not examined in this case 
on behalf of the workmen , but, in my opinion , that is not very inaterial, as it 
is established by Exhilit 4 , that he was electrd Joint Secretary of the Union , 
which was organised for the first time by the workmen on 5th October , 1959 in 
this Collicry . For that reason , it appears he was retrenched only ten days later 
on 15th October , 1959. 


P . W . 1 , however, stated that Prabhu Dayal and Bharati and others were pro 
secuted in a case for alleged assault on the Manager and in that case two men 
were convicted but Prabhu Dayal was acquitted . There is no evidence as to 
when the alleged assault on the Manager took place and when this prosecution 
was started and as to whether before or afte , the retrenchment, and , therefore , 
This evidence of P . W . 1 is not very material, 


22, Sri S . K . Mukherjee on behalf of the workmen contended that the principle 
of " ast come, first go " was not observed as far as D . K , Sen Gupta was concerned , 
and, therefore. on that ground also his retrenchment was not justified . On behalf 
of the management, however , it was contended by Sri S . S . Mukherjee that as 
will appear from the Seniority List . Exhibit G . the persons retrenched , naniely , 
the three concerned workmen and the other five workmen , whose cases have 
not been referred for adjudication to this Tribunal, were junior most in their 
category , and , therefore , the principle of last come, first go was observed . 


As the objection regarding non - application of the said principle has been urged 
only th respect of D . K . Sen Gupta . P . W . 1 , I would confine myself only to his 
case. From the Seniority List, Exhibit G , it does appear that P . R . Sirkar. and 
R , C , Chatterjee who were retrenched under Category 1 . were junior most amongst 
the three persons named therein . From the Second Category also , in which 
Heven persons are mentioned , as register keepers , the four persons retrerched . 


2480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[Part N 


namely , Serial Nos. 4 to 7 were the Junior most persons, and, amongst chaprasis , 
in the third category also , the persons retrenched i. e . Serial Nos . 9 and 10 were 
junior most. Prima facie , therefore , the contention of Sri S . S . Mukherjee that 
the junior most persons were retrenched appears to be correct . From the 
Seniority List, Exhibit G , it appears that D . K . Sen Gupta ( Serlal No. 4 ) was 
appointed on 15th May , 1955 whereas, D . P . Ambastha ( Serial No. 3 ) was appolated 
on 8th May, 1955 . If these dates are correct , then obviously D . K . Sen Gupta 
was junior to Ambasta . The workman , however , submitted that D . K . Sen Gupta 
was appointed on 1st May, 1955 as will appear from the form of Appointment 
of Competent Persons, under the Coal Mines Regulations, Exhibit 3 , O . P . W . 1 
admitted that he could not deny the correctness of Exhibit 3 . Exhibit 3 has not 
also been repudiated by Sri S . $ . Mukherjee on behalf of the management. Ex 
hibit 3 may be taken to be correct. Exhibit 3 shows that this certificate was 
Issued on 21st September, 1953 to D . K . Sen Gupta , in which it is mentioned 
that he was appointed as Attendance Clerk at Khas Karanpura Colllery as from 
1st May, 1955 . Exhibit 3 further shows that D . K . Sen Gupta accepted his ap 
pointment as such on 21st September 1955. Replying on this , Sri S . S . Mukherjee 
contended that the date of appointment of D . K . Sen Gupta would be 21st Septem 
ber , 1955 , on which date he accepted his appointment, and , not 1st May , 1955 
as mentioned in Exhibit 3 . I feel difficulty in accepting his contention , as in the 
Seniority List Exhibit G the date of appointment of D . K . Sen Gupta is 15th May. 
1955. If that is correct , then the contention of Sri Mukherjee that D . K . Sen Gupta 
was appointed on 21st September , 1955 , as shown in Exhibit 3 , cannot be accepted 
as correct . The two dates 15th May , 1955 in Exhibit G and 21st September 1965 
in Exhibit 3 , cannot be reconciled . In this State of evidence, it appears to me, 
as mentioned in Exhibit 3 , that his appointment should be on and from 1st May, 
1955 and not 15th May, 1955 as mentioned in Exhibit G nor 21st September , 1955 , 
on which date he accepted the appointment letter. It appears to me that D . K . Sen 
Gupta was appointed as from 1st May 1955 , but the formal acceptance of his 
appointment, which has to be done by him , was actually done on 21st September , 
1955 but this does not mean that he started working from 21st September 1955 
or 15th May , 1955 and not from 1st May , 1955 . For these reasons, I accept the 
contention of the workmen that the date of appointment of Sri Sen Gupta was 
1st May, 1953 , as mentioned in Exhibit 3 , and not 15th May , 1955 as mentioned 
in Exhibit G . If that be so , then it is manifest that D . K , Sen Gupta was senior 
to D . P . Ambastha, who was appointed on 8th May , 1955 , and , therefore , 
D . K . Sen Gupta not being junior to D . P . Ambastha, could not be retrenched . 
The principle of last come, first go , therefore, was not followed in the case of 
D . K . Sen Gupta . I may , however , observe that even if this Anding be not correct , 
It does not in the least affect my earlier finding that retrenchment of these three 
workmen concerned by the management was malafide by way of victimisation 
and not at all justified and , therefore, cannot stand . 


23. For the reasons given above, I hold that these three workmen were re 
trencher because of their trade Union activities, and the management - nomyched 
them by way of victimisation , although their retrenchment was not justilieu and 
bonafide and accordingly their retro siment is malallde and unjustified , 


24 . I would , therefore , anser the reference in favour of the workmen con 
cerned by holding that retrenchment of ( i ) Shri D . K . Sen Gupta ( P . W . 1 ) , ( 11 ) 
Shri Prabhu Dayal, and (111) Sri P . R . Sirkar ( P . W . 2 ) , with effect from 16th 
November, 1959 was not justifled . anu therefore, the retrenchment notices Exhibits 
F and G ( 1 ) were malafide and invalid and have no legal effect , and , accordingly 
their retrenchment orders are set aside and declared null and void . 


25 . The next question is, to what relleſ, if any , are they entitled . It is obvious 
that in view of the answer to the Arst part of the question under the reference 
that the retrenchment of these three workmen concerned was malafide and un 
justifed and not proper , it follows that they are entitled to be reinstated with 
effect from 18th November , 1959 and for the period of their forced idleness from 
16th November , 1959 upto the date of their reinstatement, they are entitled to 
get full back wages and other emoluments to which they would have been entitled 
in the ordinary course , if they had not been retrenched and they would be deemed 
to be in continuous service of the company from 18th November , 1959 . I And 
from the award of my predecessor Shri G . Pallt that these three workmen were 
awarded compensation at the rate of half of their usual wages. But I personally 
do not feel any justification for allowing these workmen only half their usual 
wages, instead of their full back wages from 18th November, 1959 upto the date 
of their relastatement, and , accordingly , I direct. 


SEC . 8 (6 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2481 


26 . This award must be implemented within one month from the date this 
award becomes operative after its publication under Section 17A of the Act. 

27. This is my award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act . 
DHANBAD , 

( Sd .) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 
The 7th April , 1963. 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 

[No. 8 / 115 /63- LRII .) 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 
8 . 0 . 2177. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Chaldean Syrian Bank Limited 
and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by gection 7A of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an 
Industrial Tribunal consisting of Shri P , N . Ramaswami with headquarters at First 
Line Beach , Madras , and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) refers the 
sald dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Chaldean Syrian Bank Limited was justified in 
deducting the wages due to Shri Inasu for the 3rd February , 1962 and , if not,to 
what relief is he entitled ? 

[ No. 51 ( 15 )/ 63-LRIV . ] 

P . R . NAYAR , Under Secy. 
New Delhi, the 24th July 1963 
S . O . 2178. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under Section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Manbodh son of Bhuneswar, Line Mistry and 6 others , 
Post Office Jhagrakhand Collicry , District Surguja , Madhya Pradesh , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 19th July , 1963 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

COMPLAINT No. 5 OF 1962 

( Arising out of Reference No. 73 of 1961) 
PARTIES : 

1. Manbodh , s / o Bhuneswar, Line Mistry , 
2 . Motilall, s / o Gayadin , Ginee Mistry , 
3 . Dhaneswar, s / o Dewan , Tub -Rep . Mistry, 
4 . Joyram Singh , s / o Chotani Singh , C . Mistry , 
5 . Abhiman Singh , s / o Sarju Singh , Chap. 
6 . Alabakas , s / o Abdul Rezak , Haulage Kha. 
7. And others , 

Applicants - -Complainants . 
P . O . Jhagrakhand Colliery 

Dist. Surguja, M . P . 


Vs. 


Manager , Jhagrakhand Colliery, P . O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , Dist. Surguja , 

M . P . Opposite party , 


2482 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 / SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART 11 


PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, M . A ., B .L ., Prosiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 
For the complainants : - - Sri Anil Das Choudhury, Advocate , with Sri B . 

Boral, Gen . Secretary , Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha. 
For the Opposite party : Shri G . R . Bhandari, Chief Welfare Officer. 
STATE : 
Madhya Pradesh , 

INDUSTRY : Coal . 


Dhanbad , dated the 30th May , 1963 

AWARD 
This complaint was made in reference 73 of 1961 by Manbodh and others on 
5th February 1962 under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, com 
plaining of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the Act by the 
management opposite party because the complainants were alleged to have been 
deprived of their scales of pay, Categorization , Change of Service , Facilities etc . 
from the date of the Coal Award came into force . 


2 . On the case being taken up today ( 3012 May 1963 ) , Sri G . R . Bhandari, on 
behalf of the management and Sri Anil Das Choudhury , Advocate , appeared on 
behalf of the workmen who were represented also by Sri B . Boral, General 
Secretary, Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha . Subsequently Sri Choudhury filed a 
petition praying for permission to withdraw the complaint on the ground that 
these complainants did not want to press their complaint and to prosecute it. 


3 . In the circumstances , the complainants are permitted to withdraw their 
complaint and accordingly the complaint stands withdrawn in terms of the 
petition of withdrawal. 


4 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government by 
Section 15 of the Act . 

DHANBAD, 
The 30th May , 1963. 

( Sd .) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. 4 / 38 / 61 -LRII. ) 


S . O . 2179. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under Section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Bojranghee son of Pachoula Baiga, Post Office 
Jhagrakhand Collicry , District Surguja , Madhya Pradesh , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 19th July , 1963 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a Complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947, (XIV of 1947 ) . 


COMPLAINT No. 9 OF 1962 

(Arising out of Reference No. 73 of 1961) 
PARTIES : 
Bojranghee , s / o Pachoula Baiga, P .O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , Dt. Surguja , 

Madhya Pradesh - Applicant/ Complainant, 


VS. 


Manager, West Jhagrakhand Colliery , 

Surguja , M . P . - Opposite party . 


P . O . 


Jhagrakhand Colliery, Dt. 


BEC , 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1968 /GRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2483 


PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B . L ., Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Complainant : - - Sri Anil Das Choudhury, Advocate , with Sri Biseswar 

Boral, Sucretary , Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha . 
For the opposite party : - Sri G . R , Bhandari, Chief Welfare Oficer, 
STATE : Madhya Pradesh . 

INDUSTRY: Coal 
Dhanbad , dated the 30th May, 1963 

AWARD 
This complaint was made by Sri Bojranghec a workman of the West Jhagra 
khand Colliery opposite party , on 29th March 1962 under Section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 against his stoppage of work from the middle of 
March 1962 in reference 73 of 1961. 

2. On behalf of the workman , Sri Anil Das Choudhury, Advocate , representing 
the Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha, appcars . Shri G , R . Bhandari, Chief Welfare 
Officer, of the opposite party , appears for the company opposite party . It is 
admitted on behalf of both parties that the complainant is now dead and 
naturally , therefore , the complaint has become infructuous, and , accordingly , it 
is dismissed as infructuous. 

3 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India , 
under Section 15 of the Act. 

( Sd .) RAJ KISHONE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

[No. 4 / 38 /61-LRII .] 


S . O . 2180 , — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industria ] Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hcreby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunul, Dhanbad , in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act from the General Secretary , Azad Koyala Shramik Sabha , 
Post Omce Jhagrakland Colliery, District Surguja , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 19th July , 1163. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 
In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 

COMPLAINT No . 40 OF 1962 
( Arising out of Reference No. 73 of 1961 ) 


PARTIES ; 
General Secretary , Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha , P . O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , 
Dt. Surguja - Applicant / Complainant. 

Vs. 
Manager, South Jhagrakhand Colliery, P. O . Jhagrakhand Colliery , Dt. 

Surguja — Opposite Party . 
PRESENT; 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , M . A ., B . L ., Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 
For the complainant: Shri B . Boral, General Secretary , Azad Koyla Shramik 

Sabha . 
For the Opposite party : Shri G . R . Bhandari, Chief Welfare Officer . 
STATE : Madhya Pradesh , 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 30th May, 1963 


2484. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


PART II 


AWARD 
This complaint was made under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, by the General Secretary of the Azad Koyla Shramik Sabha on behalf of 
100 workmen ininers who had been thrown out of employment by the opposite 
party management of South Jhagrakhand Colliery , 

2 . In this complaint, the names of 100 miners , on whose behall , the General 
Secretary of the Union made the complaint, have not been mentioned . The com 
plaint is also not accompanied by the authority of the 100 workmen , on whose 
behall the General Secretary of the Union filcd the present complaint. I find , 
however , that another complaint No. 49 of 1962 was subsequently filed , on behalf 
of Bandhuram and 103 miners , which is pending before this Tribunal. As Com 
plaint No. 40 and 49 of 1962 are both on behalf of the same set of persons, a 
petition was filed by Sri B . Boral, General Secretary of the Azad Koyla Shramik 
Sabha , representing the workmen concerned , for permission to withdraw the 
complaint No. 40 of 1962 in the circumstances mentioned above. 


3 . The complaint No . 40 of 1962 is, therefore , permitted to be withdrawn in 
terms of the petition of withdrawal flled today - ( 30th May , 1963 ) . 


4 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Government of India 
under Section 15 of the Act. 

DHANBAD , 
The 30th May , 1963 . 

(Sd .) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . 

( No. 4 / 38 /61-LR . II. I 


New Delhi, the 28th July 1963 
S . O . 2181. In pursuunce of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Labour 
Court, Bangalore , in the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of the said Act 
from Shri S . V . Srinivasan of the Indian Bank Limited , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 19th July , 1963 . 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 

COURT, BANGALORE , 
Dated this 17th day of July , 1963 

PRESENT : 
Sri R . Krishna Setty , B . A ., LL .B : , 

Presiding Officer . 

COMPLAINT NO. 1 OF 1963 
Complainant : - Sri S . V . Srinivasan , Indian Bank Ltd ., Davanagere Branch , 
represelited by Sri K , K . Mundal, Vice President, All India Bank Employees Union , 
Bombay . 


Vs. 


Respondent : - The Indian Bank Ltd ., Davanagere Branch , Mysore State , Regis 
tered Officer , Madras , represented by Sri H . Ramanathan , Law Officer . 


AWARD . 
1 . This is a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 
(Central Act XIV of 47) for the alleged contravention of the provisions or Section 
33 by an employer during the course of the proceedings before the National Indus 
trial Tribunal ( Bank Disputes ) Bombay. It arises in this way : -- The Central Gov 
ernnient being of opinion that an Industrial Dispute existed or was apprehended 
between 67 Banking Companies and Corporations and their workmen in respect of 
22 matters and the dispute Involved questions of national importance and also was 
of such a nature that Industrial establishments situated in more than one Stato 
were likely to be interested in or affected by such dispute and being further of the 


Sec. ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1968 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2485 


Opinion that the dispute should be adjudicated by a National Tribunal, referred the 
said dispute to the National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes ) at Bombay and 
appointed Hon ble Justice Sri Kantilal T , Desai as the Presiding omcer of the 
Trlbunal. The said dispute had been registered as Reference No . 1 / 60 on the Ale 
of that Tribunal. During the pendency of that dispute the complainant Sri S . V . 
Srinivasan nade the present complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947 against his employer namely the Indian Bank Ltd ., Davanagere , Mysore 
State having its Registered Once at Madras where it was registered as Complaint 
No. 33 / 62. The National Industrial Tribunal by their Order dated 28th August 1962 
transierred the complaint to the Labour Court at Delhi for disposal according to 
law under Intimation to the complainant where it had been rcgistered as Complaint 
No. 304 / 62 . But the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred upon 
them under section 33B ( 1 ) of thc Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 withdrew the said 
complaint from the Labour Court, Delhi and transferred the same to this Labour 
Court at Bangalore constituted by the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour & Employment Notification No . 459 dated 5th February 1963 with me as 
the Presiding Officer for the disposal of the said complaint with a direction that 
this court should proceed with it from thc stage at which it was transferred and 
dispose of the same according to law . 

2 . The case for the complainant is that he was a premanent employee in the 
respondent Bank in the category of a Bill Collector , that he was fitted into the 
appropriate wage scale in terms of Industrial Disputes Banking Decisions Act 1955, 
commonly called the Sastry Award as modified , that the Deputy Secretary brought 
to the notice of the complainant that though he was asked by the Damanagere 
Agent to write the letters in the local delivery book , he had refused to do so and 
that though the Agent had asked him ( complainant) to submit his explanation for 
his refusal, he had not submitted his explanation and that he should therefore 
show cause to the Deputy Secretary why he should not take desciplinary action 
against him . It is said that this charge was baseless and yet the management of 
the Bank had wrongfully and improperly stopped one increment and in that way 
altered his service conditions to his prejudice by way of punishment. The com 
plainant therefore prays for sctting aside the order relating to the stoppage of 
increment and for a direction to the Bank to pay back his full salary during the 
period he was kept under suspension . 

3 . The respondent bank resisted the complaint on the following grounds, ( 1 ) that 
there has been no contravention of the provisions of Section 33 and as such this 
court has no jurisdiction to proceed with the matter , ( 2 ) that a proper enquiry was 
conducted on the charge of disobedience of lawful orders against the complainant 
wherein he was found guilty and so his increment was stopped for the offence that 
had been proved after affording a reasonable opportunity for showing cause why 
the proposed action should not be taken , ( 3 ) that there has been no violation of the 
principles of natural justice , that all rules of procedure as laid down by Şastry 
Award have been followed in the matter and the interference of this court is not 
called for, (4 ) that the stoppage of increment is not an alteration of service con 
ditions and ( 5 ) that the suspension of the complainant was perfectly proper and that 
the claim for full salary during that period was not maintainable . 

4 . When the matter was still pending before the Labour Court, Delhi, the 
Presiding Officer of that court had framed the following two issues : 
" 1 . Whether there has been a contravention of the provisions of Section 33 

of the Industrial Disputes Act by the action taken against the com 

plainant by the management of India Bank Ltd . ? 
2 . If the answer to issue No. 1 be in the affirmative whether the action 

taken against the complainant was wrongful. If so to what relieť 

he is entitled ? " 
5 . After the receipt of the complaint it was numbered as Complaint No. 1 , 63 
by this court, and a notice was issued to both parties to adduce evidence , if any . 
before this court at Bangalore on 7th May 1963 . But at the request of the Sacre 
tary , Mysore State Bank Employces Federation , Bangalore who was representing 
the complainant, the case was adjourned to 27th May 1963 for trial. On the 
adjourned day the complainant Aled 5 documents and the respondent management 
had no objection for adinitting them in cvidence . Accordingly they were marked 
as Exts . W . 1, 2 , 3 , 4 and 5 . The Respondent Bank filed 13 documents in evidence 
and the complainant had no objection for admitting them except the portion 
from page 17 and 18 in the proceedings book . Accordingly they were marked 
as Ex . R . 1 to R . 13 . Then both parties requested that further evidence may be 
recorded at Bombay and so the case was posted to 9th July 1963 at Bombay for 


2486 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1903 /SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[ PART II 


that purpose. When the case was called on for hearing at 12 noon in the court 
hall of Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 4th floor , City Ice Buildings, 298 , 
Bazargate Street, Fort, Bombay on 9th July 1963, the complainant was repre 
sented by Sri K . K . Mundal, Vice President of All India Bank Employees Union 
and the Mysore State Bank Employees Federation , Bangalore and the Respondent 
Bank was represented by Sri H , Ramanathan , Law Officer , Instead of udducing 
lurther evidence in support of the complaint for which purpose the case had 
been posted as desired by both parties , Sri K , K , Mundal represented that the 
complainant had squared up the matter with the respondent bank and therefore 
he would not press the matter . Accordingly he filed a memo signed not only 
by himself, but also by the complainant. It is specifically stated therein that the 
matter has been settled out of court and the application would not be pressed . 
In the circumstances I have no other alternative than to reject the application . 

6 . For the foregoing reasons I make an award rejecting the complaint. No 
costs . 
Dictated to the stenographer , transcribed and then corrected by me. 

( Sd .) R . KRISHNA SETTY , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Labour Court, 

Bangalore. 


AIPENDIX 


List of witnesses examined in this case on behalf of Applicant: Nil . 
Respondent: Nil. 

List of documents admitted in this case are behalf of Applicant : 
Ex. W . 1 Bank s letter of 27th Noveinber 1961. 
Ex . W . 2 Bank s letter of 11th December 1961. 
Ex . W . 3 Bank s letter of 7th February 1962 . 
Ex . W . 4 Bank s letter of 14th February 1962 . 

Ex . W . 5 Bank s Order Dated 24th April 1962. 
Respondent: 

Ex . R . 1 Reply by Srinivasan D . 2nd December 1961 . 
Ex , R . 2 Proceedings Book . 
Ex . F . 3 ( series) Slips . 
Ex. R . 4 Enquiry Proceedings , 
Ex. R . 6 Bank s letter dated 15th December 1961 ( Copy ). 
Ex . R . 6 Bank s notice dated 15th December 1961 ( Copy ). 
Ex. R . 7 Bank s letter dated 18th December 1961 ( Copy ), 
Ex . R . 8 Letter of Srinivasan to Bank , 
Ex. R . 9 Bank s letter dated 14th February 1962 (Copy ) . 
Ex . R . 10 Şrinivasan s Appeal Memo. 
Ex. R . 11 Letter Delivery Book , 
Ex . R . 12 Letter Delivery Book , 
Ex . R . 13 Office Order Book . 

(Sd.) R . KRISHNA SETTY, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Labour Court . 

Bangalore . 
[No. 55 (28 ) / 63-LRIV . ] 
C JAGANNATHAN , Under Secy . 


Sec . % (U ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1969 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2487 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 
S . O . 2182 .- - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Kumari Promila Benjamin to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Andhra Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act or of any scheme framed 
thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the control of 
the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected with a rail 
way company , a major port, a mine or an oil- fleld or a controlled industry . 

[No, 20 ( 46 ) 63-PF , I. ] 
SHAH AZIZ AHMAD , Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25th July 1963 
$ . O . 2183 .- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the cmployers in relation to the Lakurka Colliery and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And where is the C -ntralGovernment considers it desirable to refer lic said dispute for 
adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section to of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
(1)(a ). Whether the retrenchment of the following workmen by the management of the 
Lakurka Colliery was legal and justified : 


S . No. 


Name of the workman 


Designation 


Shri Raja Ram B . Pasi 
( 2 ) Shri Sant Ram B . Pasi 

Shri Mahadeo Pashi 
Shri Suku Kumhar 
Shri ImamiMian . 
Shri Gaur Kumhar 

Shri Kedar Rajwar 
(8 ) Shri Jumąn Mian II . 


. 


Shot firer. 
Shot fircr. 
Shot firer . 
Explosive carrier. 
Explosive carricr. 
Explosive carrier . 
Explosive carrier. 
Explosive carrier , 


. 


. 


(b ) If not, to what relief are they cntitled ? 

(2 )( a ) Whether the offer of alternative work ay miners to the following workmen of Lakur l a 
Colliery was legal and proper :- - 


S . No. 


Name of theworkman 


Designation 


( 3 ) 


( I ) Shri Munwa D . Pasi 
( 2 ) Sbri Pati Ram B . Pasi 

Shri Ful Singh B . Pasi 
( 4 ) Shri Bhagat B . Pagi . 

Shri Buthalu B . Pasi . 
(6 ) Shri Tehari B . Pasi 
(7 ) Shri Pakla B . Paşi 


Drill mazdoor. 
Drill mazdoor . 
Drill mazdoor. 
Drillman , 
Drillman . 
Dresser . 
Dresser , 


(5 ) 


(6 ) If not, to what relief are they entitled ? 


[2 / 29 /63 -LRII] 
B . R . SETH , Dy. Sacy . 


2488 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1965 /SRAVANA 12, 2885 


(PART II 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agrloulture ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2184. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Rice Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1939 , the same having been previously published as required by the said 
section , namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Rice Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules , 1963. 

2 . In Schedulc I of the Rice Grading and Marking Rules , 1939 , in the design 
under grade designation mark for packages of Rice for the words " TRY ast 
Scafa " the words " STIT ETTE " shall be substituted . 

[No. F , 17 -8 / 63 - AM .) 


S . O . 2185 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 , the Central Government hereby 
declares that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the following articles , 
namely : 
Water Chest - nut. 

[No. F . 17 - 15 / 63 -AM .] 


S . O . 2186 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Producc (Grading and Marking) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government 
hercby makes the following rules to amend the Bura Grading and Marking Rules , 
1943 , the same having been previously published as required by the said section , 
namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Bura Grading and Marking ( Amendment) 
Rules, 1963 . 

2 . In Schedule II of the Bura Grading and Marking Rules, 1943 , in the design 
under grade designation mark for packages of Bura for the words IT it 
Grafar the words IT RETT ETTa " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 17 -8 /63 -AM .] 


S . O . 2187. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules to amend the Lac Grading and Marking Rules , 
1950, the same having been previously published as required by the said section , 
namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Lac Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1963. 

2 . In Schedule IV of the Lac Grading and Marking Rules , 1950 , in the design 
under grade designation mark for packages of Lac for the words to fit 
sqf " the words " HT ECHTE ” shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 17- 8 / 63 - AM .] 


New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 
S . O . 2188 . — The following draft of certain rules to amend the Cardamom Grading 
and Marking Rules , 1982 , which the Central Government proposes to make in ex 
ercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading 
and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937) , is published as required by the said section , for 
the intormation of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 31st August 1983 . 


Sro . 3 ( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1968 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 2489 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Gov 
ernment. 

DRAFT RULES 
1. These rules may be called Cardamon Grading and Marking ( Amendment) 
Rules , 1963. 

2 . In the Cardamon Grading and Marking Rules, 1982, 


2490 


General Characteristics 


(1) for Schedules I, II and I the following Schedules shall be substituted , namely : 

“ SCHEDULE I . 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definition of quality of Alleppey Green Cardamoms 

Special Characteristics 
Grade dezigaation - - - 
Trade Name Colour @ Empty and Immature Blacks & Size ( Dia . Weight in 

malformed & Shri- Splits, ofbolein G / L 
capsules , velled by cunt m . m .) of minimum 
per cent capsules , maximum the sieve 
by count, per cent 

on which 
maximum by weight 

retained 
max . 

( A ) 
(4 ) (5 ) (6 (7) (8) 


- 


- - - -- - - 


- - 


2 


. 0 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST9,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


Do, 


ó 


2 . 0 


ó 


sro 


350 


320 


15 . 0 


AGEB . . Cardamom Extra Deep 

20 

7 .0 435 1. The cardamoms shall be the dried cap 
Bold . Green 

sules of Elettaria cardamomum grown in 
Greep OI 

South India ; capsules being three cor 
Light 

nered and having a ribbed appearance , 
Green , 
AGB . . Cardamom Bold . 

0.0 6.0 415 2 . The capsules shall be free from insect 

infestation and visible mculd . 
AGS . . Cardamom Superior. Do, 

0 . 0 5 . 0 385 3 . Thrip marks alone on the capsules shall 

not lead to the conclusion that the cap 

sules have been infested by insects . 
AGSI , . ShipmentGreen I. 

10 . 0 40 
AGS 2 . Shipment Green 2 . Do . 

70 90 12 . 0 4 . 0 
AGL . , Light 

260 
AGN ( a ) , 
Definition of terms 

I . Empty and malformed capsules - Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled with seeds . For this purpose 100 capsules selected atrando n 

from the sample shall be opened out and the number of empty and malformed capsules counted . 
2 . Immature & strivelled capsules - Capsules which are not fully developed . 
3 . Blacks & Splits - The former will include capsules baying visibly blackish to black colour and the latter will include those which are open at comer 

for more than balf the length . 
@ Colour - Cardamoms shall be packed separately according to the colour as (a ) Deep Green (b ) Green , (c ) Light Green and also Pale Brownish , 

The relevant colour of the cardamoms shall be indicated on the Agmark labels provided atleast 95 % of the capsules correspond to any of the colour 

groups. Where the cardamomsare not ofany one uniform colour mentioned above , there will be no indication of the colour on the labels, 
(a ) AGN - The cardamom which does not conform to any of the grades AGEB to AGL shall be packed under the grade AGN against a " Firm Order " . 

" Firm Order " means that the entire value of the goods contracted fur , should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable 

letter of credit in India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or guaranteed in any other way , 
( A ) Tolerance - A tolerance of 5 % of the next lover size is permissible , 


3 . 5 


[PARTII— 


SCHEDULE 


II . 


( See rules 3 and 4 . 
Grade designations and definition of ywlity of COORG GREEN Car:jamoms 


SEC.8(11)] 


Special Characteristics 


Grade 123giation - - , 

Trade Name 


GeneralCharacteristics 


Empty and Unclipped Immature Blacks & Size (Dia . Weight 
malformed apsules & shrivel- splits per ofholesin G / L 
capsules percent led capsules , cent by m . in .ofthe Minimum 
per centby by cunt per centby count sieve on 

count maximum wt. maxi- maximum which re 
maximum 

mun . 

tained ( A ) 


I 


9 


0 . 0 


uwo 


3 . 0 


5 0 


15 - 0 


5 . 0 


350 


C .B .E . B . . Extra Bold . 

0 . C 0 . 0 0 .0 

7 . 5 450 I . The cardamoms shall be the dried cap 

sules of Elttaria cardamomun gTOWD 
C . G . I . . Bold . . . 3 . 0 0 . 0 5 . 0 0 . 0 6 . 5 435 in South India ; colour ranging from 

Greenish to Brown * global shape , skin 
C . G . . . . Courg Green or 

10 - 0 0 . 0 - 6 . 0 385 ribbed or smooth ; the pedicels separa 
Motta Green . 

ted . 

2 . The capsules shall be free from insect 
C .G . 3 . Shipment . . 10 . 0 

IO . O 

infestation and visible mould . 

3 . Thrip marks alone on the capsule shall 
C .G . 4 . . Light , . 

15 . 0 3 . 5 280 not lead to the conclusion that the cap 

sules have been in fested by insects . 
C .G .N . @ 
Definition of terms: 

I . Empty and malformed capsules Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled wish seeds. For this purpose ioo capsuler selected atrandom 

from the sample shall be opened out and the number of empty and malformed capsules counted . 
2 . Immature and shrivelled capsules - Capsules which are not fully developed . 
3 . Blacks and Splits : The former willinclude capsules having visibly blackish to black colour and the latter willinclude those which are open at cor 

ners for more than half the length . 
4. Unclipped Capsules - Capsules in which the tipes have not been trimmed . 
QCGN - The cardamom which does not conform to any of the grades CGEB TO CG shailbe packed under the grade CGN against a Firm Order " . 
firm Order " means that entire value of the goods contracted for, should have been obtained in advar ce by opening a cent perceriirrevocable letter 

of aedit in India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt o fshipment or guaranteed in any other way . 
Coorg cardamoms shall be packed separately according to colour e. . ( I ) Golden to light creamy, (2 ) Creamy, 3 ) Light Greenish to Greenish and 
( 4 ) Brownish to Brown in respect of grade designaticos CGEB to CG3 Provided atleast 95 % of the capsz les correspond to any of the colour groups. 
Where the cardamoms are not cfany uriform colour there will be po indicationof colour on the Agmark label. 
( A ) A tolerance up to 5 % of the next lower size is pemissible, 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1968/SRAVANA12,18852491 


2492 


SCHEDULE III 

( Sæ rules 3 and 4). 
Grade designations and definition of quality of Bleached or Half - Bleached Cardanom 


Special Characteristics 


Grade designation 


General Characteristics 


Empty and Immatare & 
malformed shrivelled 
capsules , per capsules per 
cent by count, centby wt. 
maximum maximum 


Size (Diameter Weight in G { L 
of holes in 

maximum 
m .m . ) of the 
siere on which 
retained ( A ) 


I 


6 


8 . 50 


340 


. 
, 


. 


Do. 


B1 1 * . 
BL 2 * . 
BL 3 . 
BLN , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST6,1963/SRAVANA12.1885 


On 


340 


The cardamom shall be the fully developed dried capsules of Elezia 

ria cardamomum bleached and / or half -bleached by sulphurizing 
colour ranging from pale cream to white @ , global or three cor 

nered with skin ribbed or smooth . 
The capsules shall be free from Fisible mould and insect infestatico . 

Thrip marks alone on the capsules shall not lead to the conclusion 
that the capsules have been infested by insects . 


Do . 


300 


. 
, 


. 
2 


Definition of the terms : 

1 . Empty and malformed apsules : Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled with seeds. For this purpose ico capsules selected at random 

from the sample shall be opened out and the number of empty and malformed capsules counted . 
2 . Immature and shrivelled capsules - Capsules which are not fully developed . 
3 . BLN : The c rdamom which does not conform to any of the grades BLIto BL3 should be packed under the grade BLN against a " Fim Order " . 
" Frm Order " means that the entire value of the goods contracted for, should bave been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable 

letter of credit in India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or guaranteed in any other way . 
4 . @ Cardamomsshallbe packed separately according to whether they are fully bleached or half-bleached . In the latter case the colour of the capsules 

may be indicated at the request of the packer on the Agmark labels as ( 1 ) Pale creamy ct (2 ) Dull White . 
5 . * The word “ Special" would be affixed to grades BLI and BL2, if atleast 95 % of the capsules do nothave thrip marks over 50 % of their body surface. 
6 . (A ) A tolerance of 5 % of the next lower size is permissible. 


[PARTII 


(u ) for Schedules V and VI the following Schedules shall be substituted , namely : 

" SCHEDULE V 
Grade designations and definition of " Mixed " Cardamoms. 


Sec.3(11)] 


Special Characteristics 


Trade name 


Grade 
designa 
tion 


Trade name 


malformed 


General Characteristics 


Empty & Immature & Blacks & 
malformed shrivelled splits per 

capsules per capsules per cent by 
cent by count cent by weight count 
maximum maximun maximum 


Size Weight 
Dia , of hole in Gms/ Litre 
in mm . of Minimum 
the sieve on 
which re 
tained ) 
minimum 


( 1) 


(1) 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(5 ) 


16 ) 


MEB 


Mixed Extra Bold . . 


. 


20 


0 


o 


435 


0 


o 


418 


0 


MB 
MS 
MS 1. 
MS 2. 
ML 


o 


1. The cardamoms shall be dried and mixed 

capsules of different varieties of Eleitaria 

cardamom . 
2 . The capsules shall be free from insect 

infestation and visible mould . 
3 . Thrip marks alone on the capsules shall 

not lead to the conclusion thatthe capsules 
have been infested with 10sects . 


. Mixed Bold . . 

Mixed Superior 
Mixed Shipment I. . 
Mixed Shipmea : II. 
Mixed Light, 


. 
. 
. 
. 


385 
350 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,1883 


IO 


0 


o 


0 


o 


320 


15 0 


260 


i 


MN ( a ) 


Definitions : 
1. Empty and malformed capsules : Capsules which have no seeds or are scantily filled with seeds. For this purpose 100 capsules selected at random 

from the samples shall be opened out and the number of empty and malfojmed capsules counted . 
2 . Immature and shrivelled capsules : Capsules which are not fully developed , 
3 . Blacks and Splits : The former will include capsules having visibly blackish to black colour and the later will include those which are opered at 

corners for more than half the length . 
4 . * Tolerance : A tolerance of 5 % of the next lover size is permissible , 
5 . MN (a ) - The cardamom which does not conform to any of the grades from MEB to ML shall be packed under this grade against a " Firm Order” . 
" Firm Order " means that the entire value of the goods contracted for, should have been obtained in advance byo ening a cent per cent irrevocable 

letter of credit in India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by a receipt of shipment or guaranteed in any other 11 
way . 


2493 


SCHEDULE VI 
Grade designations and definition of quality ofCARDAMOM SEEDS . 


2494 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


Special Characteristc s 


Grade 
desig 
nation 


Trade name 


General Characteristics . 


Extranets * * Light seeds Weight in 
matter , per per cent by G / L mini 
ant by weight, Max , mum 
Feight mar. 


- 


CS 1. 


Prime 


. 


. 


10 


30 


1. Shall be decorticated and dry seeds of any variety of Elettaria 

curdimonium 
2. The seeds shall be free from visible moulds and insect infestation , 


660 


Shipment 
* Brokcas, 


. 
. 


. 
. 


2 . 0 
100 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST8,1968/SRAVANA12,1888 


Definition of terms : 

* Brokcas : Include also light seeds . 
Extraneous matter : Includes Calyx pieces, stalk bits and other foreign matter . 
+ * Light seeds - Include seeds brown or red in colour, immature and shrivelled seeds," 


[No. F . 17 -3163 - AM (Pt).] 


[PART-II 


Sec . 8 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1969 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2405 


S . O . 2189 . — The following draft of certain rules to amend the Chillies Grading 
and Marking Rules , 1962 , which the Central Government proposes to make in exer 
cise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading and 
Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , is published as required by the said Section , for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 31st August, 1963 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

DRAFT RULES 
1. These rules may be called Chillies Grading and Marking ( Amendment) Rules , 
1963. 


- 


2.406 


2 . In the Chillies Grading and Marking Rules, 1962 for Schedules I to V the following Schedules shall be substituted , namely : 

SCHEDULE I 

( See rules 3 and 4 ). 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of chillies commercially known as SANNAM , produced in the State of Madras and harvested in January - August 

Special characteristics 
Grade Trade Length Colour 

Maximum limit of tolerance 
designa Name in C . M . 

General Characteristics 
tion 

Damaged Pods Moisture Loose Foreign Broken 
and dis - without 

seed matter chillies 
coloured stalk 
pods 

7 8 9 


Is A so I 8 


§ 


10 


10 


II 


so 


% 


% 


5 and above 


0 
2 . 00 


2 . 00 


Light red 
shining . 


I 00 


I 00 


Below 5 and 
above 3 


Light red 
shining . 


3 .00 


11 : 50 


M . S . S . - Madras 

Sannam 

Special. 
M .S .G , . Madras 

Sannam 

General. 
M .S . F . Madras 

Sannam 

Fair . 
MSNS . Non -specified 


2 . 00 


2 : 00 


4 . 00 
6:00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


Do. 


Dull red . 


6 :00 


4.00 


II . 50 


1. 50 


2 . 00 


5 . 00 Chillies shall 

(a ) be the dried ripe fruits 
belonging to the species 

Capsicum annuum L ; 
7 . 00 (6 ) have shape , pungency 

and seed contents normal 

to the variety ; 
7 . 00 ( c) be free from mould or 

insect damage and be in 
sound condition , and fit 

for human consumption . 
( d ) be current year s crop and 

shall be free from extrane 
ous colouring oil and matter , 
other harmful substances . 


2 . 00 


15 . 00 


.. 


5 . 00 


Basis of quantitative determination : All determinations and percentages shall be reckoned on the basis of the total weight of representative samples . 
Length : The tolerance specified in column 3 shall be based upon the average length of 20 fruits selected at random . The measurement will be taken 

from the tip of the fruit to the pedicel point (where the stalk is attached ) . 
Discoloured Pods : Pods having brown, black , white and other coloured patches will be considered as discoloured pods . 
Foreign matter : All extraneousmatter including calyx pieces and loose stalks will be treated as foreign matter . For accidental error : 4 toleance 

is permissible upto 5 : 0 per cent in cxcess of the tolerance specified under column 3 in respect of M . S . S . and M . S . G . Grade For accidental errors , a 

tolerance of 0 . 5 per cent under column 5 and I o per cent under column 6 is permissible for both the grades . 
Moisture : For accidentalerror a tolerance of 0 . 5 per cent for moisture content will be allowed over and above II . 5 per cent only . No tolerance will be 

allowed for Grade MSNS . 
MSNS : The chillies which do not conform to any of the Higher grades, shall be packed under GRADE MSNS against a " Firm Order only . 
Firm Order means that the entire value of the goods contracted for , should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable letter i 

of credit in India , which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or is guaranteed in any other way. 


[PARTU 


SCHEDULE İİ 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of chilles commercially known as SĂNNAM , produced in the State of Madras and harvested in September - December 


Stc.9(it)] 


Grade 
designation 


Trade Name 


Length 
in C . M 


General Characteristics 


Damaged 
and dis - 
coloured pods 

(5 ) 


Special Characteristics 

Maximum limit of tolerance 
Pods Moisture Loose Foreign 
without 

seed matter 
stalk 
(6 ) (7) (8 ) (9 ) 


Broken 
chillies 


- (1 ) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


( 10) 


( 11) 


M . S . S . 


Madras s and 
Sandam Special above . 


Tolon 


% 
10 : 00 


II . 50 


Light 
red shin . 
ing to 
Light red 
dull . 


Do . 


5 


20 .00 


11 . 50 


3. 0 


1.0 


2 .00 


M . S.G . . Madras 

Sannam 

General: 
M .S . N . S . Non - specified 


Below 5 

and 
above 3 . 


Chillies shall 
( a ) be the dried ripe fruits belong 

ing to the species Capsicum 

Gruum L ; 
( 5 ) have shape , pungency and 

Seed contents normal to the 

variety ; 
(c) be free from mould or insect 

damage and be in sound condi 
tion and fit for human consump 

tion ; 
(d ) be current year s crop and 

should be free from extraneous 
colouring matter , oil and other 
harmful substancts . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST8,1963/SRAVANA12,18852497 


.. 


15. 00 


. 


so 


. . 


Basis of quantitative determinations : All determinations and percentages shall be reckoned on the basis of the total weight of representative samples . 
Length : The tolerance specified in col 3 shall be based upon the average length of 20 fruits selected at random . The measurement will be taken from the 

tip of the fruit to the pedicel point (where the stalk is attached ). 
Discoloured pods : Pods having brown , black , white and other coloured patches will be considered as discoloured pods. 
Foreign matter : All extraneous matter including calyx pieces and loose stalks wil be treated as foreign matter. For accidental errors , a tolerance is 
permissible upto 5 . 0 % in excess of the tolerance specified under col. 3 in respect of M . S . S . Grade and M . S . G . Grade. For accidental crrors , a tolerance of 
0 . 5 % under cl, 5 and 1 % under col. 6 is permissible for both grades. 
Moisture : For accidental errors a tolerance of 0 . 5 % for moisture content will be allowed over and above 11 . 5 % only. No tolerance will be admissible 
for Grade MSNS 
M . S . N . S . - The chillies which do not conform to any of the higher grades , shall be packed under Grade M . S . N . S . against “ Fimm Order only . 
" Firm Order " means that the entire value of goods contracted for , should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable letter of credit in 
India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or is guaranteed in any other way , 


SCHEDULE III 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designationsand definitionsof quality of chilliescommercialls known as MUNDU produced in RAMANATHPURAM District of Madros State . 


2498 


* Grade Trade Name. Length 
designation . 

in cm . 


Colour . 


Special Characteristics 
Maximum limits of tolerance 


GO 


General characteristics. 


Moisture 


Damaged 

& dis 
coloured 
pods. 


Pods 
without 
stalk . 


Loose 
seed . 


Foreign 
matter. 


Broken 
Chillies 


_ (1) 


(2) _ (3) 


(4) 


( 11) 


ww 


(6) 
con 


(7) 
il 50 


(8) 
% 


(9) 
% 


olo 
. o 


(10) 
% 


% 


% 
I : 00 


Chillies shall 


II . 50 


I . 00 


Deep red 
shining 


I . 00 


M . M . S . Madras Not ex - 

Mundu . ceeding 

Special. 2 : 5 cm . 
M . M .G . Madras 

Do. 
Mundu 

General. 
M .M .N .S . Non -specified . 


(a ) be the dried ripe fruits belong 

ing to the species Capsicum 

annum L 
1 . 00 (6 ) have shape, pungency and seed 

contents normal to the variety : 


Do. 


4 . 0 


IO . 


II . 50 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,1885 


I . 


1 .00 


.. 


. . 


15 .00 


. . 


5 .00 


. . 


(c ) be free from mould or insect 
damage and be in sound condi 
tion and fit for human consum 
tion ; 
(d ) be current year s crop and shall 

be free from extraneous colour 
ing matter , oil and other harm 
ful substances , 


Basis of quantitative determinations : - All determinationsand percentages shall be reckoned on the basis of total weight of representative samples . 

Length :-- Tolerance specified in col. 3 shall be based upon the average length of 20 fruits selected at random . The measurement will be taken from 
the tip of the fruits to the pedicel point (where the stalk is attached ) 

Discoloured pods : - Pods having brown, black , white and other coloured patches will be considered as discoloured pods . 
Foreign matter :- All extraneousmatter including calyx pieces and loose stalks will be treated as foreign matter . 
For accidental errors , a tolerance of 0 . 5 % under col. 5 and 1 . 0 % under col. 6 is permissible for both the grade. 

Moisture : - - For accidental errors a tolerance of 0 . 5 % for moisture content will be allowed over and above 11 . 5 % only . No tolerance will be admissible 
for Grade M . M . N . S . 

M . M . N .S . : - - The chillies which do not conform to any of the higher grades, shall be packed under Grade M . M .N . S .against a " Firm Order " only . 

" FirmOrder" merans that the entire value of goods contracted for , should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable letter of 
credit in India , which is encashable on the productionof shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or is guaranteed in any other way . 


[PARTII 


SEG.3(ii] 


SCIÍEDULE IV 

(See rules 3 and 4 ) * 
Grade designationsand definitions of quality of chillies commercially known as RARI ( Patarkı or Patli) Produced in the State of Bihar . 

Special Characteristics 
Grade trade Name. Length . Colour. 

Maximum limit of tolerance 
designation . in c .m . 

- General Characteristics . 
Damaged Pods Moisture Loose Foreign Broken 
and dis - without 

seed . matter . chillies . 
* coloured stalks . 

red pods . 
(1) (2 ) (3 ) (4 ) (5 ) (6 ) (7 ) (8 ) (9 ) (10 ) 

( II ) 


0 / 


2.0 


2.0 


11. 50 


% 

Chillies shall 
B . R . S . Bihar Rari 8 and Bright red . 

II. 50 I . O 

I . 

o ( a ) be the dried ripe fruits belong 
$ pecial. above . 

ing to the species Capsicum 

annum L . 
B . R . G . Bihar Rari Below 8 Do . 

I . O I . O 

50 (6 ) have shapes pungency and 
General. and above 

seed contents normal to the 

Variety , 
(c ) be free from mould or insect 

damage and be in sound condi 
tion and fit for human consump 

tion ; 
B . R . N . S . . . . . . . . . 15 . 00 . 

50 . . (d ) be current year s crop and shall 

be free from extraneous colour 
ing matter oil and other harm 

ful substances . 
Basisofquantitative determinations : All determinations and percentages shall be reckoned on the basis of the total weight or representative samples. 

Length : The tolerance specified in col. 3 shall be based upon the average length of 20 fruits selected at random , The measurement will be taken 
from the tip of the fruits to the pedicel point (where the stalk is attached ). 

Discoloured pods : - - Pods having brown , black , white and other coloured patches will be considered as discoloured pods. 

Foreign matter : All extraneousmatter including calyx pieces and loose stalk will be treated as foreign matter . For accidental errors , a tolerance 
permissible upto 5 . 0 % inexcess of the tolerance specified under col. 3 in respect of B . R . S . Grade and B . R .G . Grade. For accidental errors , a tolerance of 0 . 5 % 
under col. 5 and 1 . 0 % under col. 6 is permissible for both the grades . 

Moisture : - For accidental error a tolerance of 0 . 5 % formoisture cotentwill be allowed over and above II. 5 % only . No tolerance will be ad 
missible for GRADE B . R . N . S . 

B . R . N . S . The chillies which do not conform to any of the higher grades shall be packed under Grade BRNS against " Firm Order ” only . 

" Firm Order ” means that the entire value of the goods contracted for , should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable 
Jotter of credit in India which is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipment or is guaranteed in any other way . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,18852499 


SCHEDULE V 

( See rules 3 and 4 .) 
Grade designations and definitions of quality of chilles commercially known asGOSPUREA produced in the State of Bihar 


2500 


Special Characteristics 


Grade Trade Name Length 
designation 

in cm 


Colour 


General Characteristics 


Maximum limits of tolerance 
Damaged Pods Moisture Loose Foreigl 
without 

matter 
discoloured stalk 
pods 
(5 ) 6 (7) (8 ) ( ) 


Broken 
chillies 


seed 


(I) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


(10 ) 


( 11) 


% 


% 


B .G . S . 


s and 


Bright red 


Bright red 


20 90 4.50 % O 


20 


Bihar 
Gospurea 
Special. 


I O 


5 and 
abote S . 


I O 


B . G .G . 


Do . 


30 


2 . 0 


II . 50 


IO 


I O 


Bihar 
Gospurea 
General 


Below 5 
and above 


3 . 


So Chillies shall 

(a ) be the dried ripe fruits belong 

ing to the species Capsicum 

C ON L . 
5 . 0 (b ) have shape , pungency and seed 

contents normal to the variety . 
(c ) be free from mould or insect 

damage and be in sound condi 
tion and fit for human consunp 

tion : 
( d ) be current year s crop and 

shall be free from extraneo as 
colouring matter, oil and other 
harmful substances . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,196$/SRAVANA12,1888 


B.G.N.S Non-specified 


. 


. 


. 


15 . 00 


15:00 


. 


50 


Basis of quantitative determinations : All determinationsand percentages shall be reckoned on the basis of the total weight of representative samples . 
Length ; The tolerance specified in col. 3 shall be based upon the average length of 20 fruits selected at random . The measurement will be taken from the tip 

of the fruit to the pedicel point (where the stalk is attached ). 
Discoloured pods : Pods having brown, black , white and other coloured patches will be considered as discolo ured . 
Foreign matter : All extraneous matter including calyx pieces and loose stalks will be treated as foreigo matter. For accidental errors , a tolerance is 

permisssible upto 5 . 0 % in excess of tolerance specified in col. 3 under B . G . S . and B .G . G . Grades. For accidental errors , a tolerance of O 50 % 

under col sand I 0 % under col. 6 is permissible for both the grades . 
Moisture : Foraccidentalerrora tolerance of o 5 % for moisture content will be allowed over and above II. 5 only . No tolerance will be admissible for 

GRADE B . G . N . S . 
B . G . N . S : The chillies which do not conform to any of the higher grades , shall be packed under Grade B , G , N , S , against Firm Order ” only . 
* Firm Order " means that the entire value of the goods contracted for, should have been obtained in advance by opening a cent per cent irrevocable letter 
of credit in India , wbich is encashable on the production of shipping bill supported by receipt of shipmentos is guaranteed in any other way ." 

[No. 17 - 3/63 -AM (Pt.); 

V , S NIGAM , Under Secy. 


[PARTII 


SCC . 3 ( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1889 2501 


(Department of Agriculture ) 
New Delhi, the 26th July 1963 


S . O . 2190 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
oť Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture ) S . O . 251, dated the 27th 
January , 1963, namely : 

In the said notification , in paragraph 2 , for the words and Agures " 31st July , 
1963,” substitute “ 30th September, 1983," . 

[No. 1- 14 / 62 - C ( E ) .] 
N . RANGANATHAN , Under Secy . 


( Department of Agriculture ) 
( Indian Council of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1963 
S . O . 2191, - Under Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( 14 of 1923 ), 
the Central Government are pleased to nominate Shri D , V . Lele -member of the 
Khadi & Village Industries Commission , Bombay - as member of the Indian 
Central Cotton Committee upto 31st March , 1964. 

[No. 1- 7 /63-Com , III. ) 


New Delhi, the 25th July 1963 
S . O . 2192 . - In pursuance of the provision of Sub - section (i) of Section 4 of the 
Indian Oilseeds Committee Act 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby 
appoint Shri T . V . Subba Rao , Principal Quality Control Officer , Tata Oil Mills Co., 
Bombay, nominated by the Qil Technologists Association of India , Kanpur, as a 
member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, for the period ending 31st 
March , 1986 . 

[No. 8 -4 / 63 -Com . III. ) 


S . O , 2193 . — In pursuance of the provision of Sub - section ( d ) of Section 4 of the 
Indian Ollseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( 9 of 1946 ), the Central Government hereby 
appoint Shri H , K . Şingh , Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry , Government of India , New Delhi," as a member of the Indian Central 
Oilseeds Committee for the period ending on 31st March , 1965 , in the casual 
vacancy caused by the resignation of the sitting member , Shri D , M . Jejurikar. 

[NO, 8 - 34 / 82 -Com . II / III . ) 


New Delhi, the 27th July 1963 


S . O . 2194 .- - In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 19 ( 4 ) of the Indian Lac 
Cess Rules, 1930 , framed under section 8 of the Indian Lac Cess Act, 1930 ( Act 
No. 24 of 1930 ) , the Central Government hereby publish the audited accounts 
of " Receipts and Payments of the Indian Lac Cess Committee for the year ending 
31st March , 1961 alongwith the auditor s report. 


AUDIT REPORT 


PART I 


( 1 ) This report includes only the major and important irregularities and not 
the minoy ones which have been included in a separate note , not published . 

( 2 ) The accounts of receipts and payments of the Indian Lac Cess Committee, 
relating to the year 1960 - 61 is given in Appendix I to this report. It has been 
checked and found correct subject to the remarks in this report. 


2502 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1968 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[Part II 


( 3 ) Estimates of receipt and expenditure: 

The estimate and actual receipts and expenditure of the Indian Lac Cess Com 
mittee for the year 1960 -61 were as follows: 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Original budget 
Revised budget 
Actuala 


24 ,02 , 306 
24 ,05,390 
7,05 ,625 


15, 59 ,999 
12 , 86 ,299 * 
10 ,99, 509 


• 


* Sanctioned by the Central Government in the Ministry of Food and Agri 
culture ( Department of Agriculture ) , 1. C . A . R ., letter No. 3 - 24 / 61- Com . III, dated 
21st March , 1961, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 11 lakhs, 

On the basis of revised estimates, a surplus of Rs. 13 ,05 ,390 was anticipated . 
From the figures of actual receipts and expenditure it will be seen that the trans 
actions resulted in a deficit of Rs. 3, 93 ,884 against the budget forecast of a surplus 
of Rs. 13 ,05 ,380 . This was due to the fact that as a normal practice of the Com 
mittee , the investments of the Committee in Government Securities ( at cost ) as 
at the beginning of each financial year are included in the estimated receipts 
(under " Opening Balance " ) . During the year 1960 -61, the Securities , viz . 4 per 
cent loan 1960 — 70 , face value Rs, 100 ,000 was due to mature. Instead of showing 
Rs. 100 , 000 as anticipated receipts on account of investment, the value of all the 
Investments , i. e . Rs . 16 ,08 , 063 ( as held on 1st April 1960 ) was included in the 
estimated receipts for 1960 -61, The deviation from the commonly accepted policy 
in the matters of investments vis - a -vis budget estimates , inflated the figures of 
receipts. 

Besides , the practice also had adverse effect on the financial interest of the 
Committee, when in course of a year, the securities had to be sold before 
maturity , inflicting a loss, vide para 8 of this report. 

(4 ) Balance (Cash etc .) 

The total resources of the Committee comprising cash and investments in 
Government securities at the beginning and end of the year 1960- 61 were as 
follows: 


Tyt April 
1960 


31st March ( + ) Incrcase 

1961 ( - )Decrease 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Cash . . . 
Investments ( at cost ) 


. 
, 


. 
. 


1,60 ,327 
16 ,08 ,063 
17,68 ,390 


92 , 586 ( . )67,741 
12 ,90, 390 ( - ) 3,17,673 
13,82 , 976 (G )3 ,85 ,414 


TOTAL 


, 


. 


. 


Compared with the preceeding year, there was a decrease of Rs. 3, 85 ,414 in 
the clasing balance due to excess of disbursements over receipts . 

( 5 ) Investment : 

The investments of the funds of the Committee during the period from 1939 -40 
to 1954 - 55 , in Government Securities , as remaining on the 31st March , 1961 was 
Rs. 1, 290 ,390 . 35 , at cost ( face value Rs. 12 , 94, 000 ) . The market value of the invest 
ments as on 31st March 1961 was Rs. 12 , 17 , 051, 75 , which fell short of their cost 
by Rs. 73 ,338 . 60 and of their face value by Rs. 76, 948 . 25 . 

A further sum of Rs. 2 , 22 , 400 had been invested on account of the Indian Lac 
Cess Committee Provident Fund , in the P . O . 12 Year National Saving Certificates, 
as on the 31st March , 1981 . 


SEC . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1968 / SRAVANA 12. 1885 2503 


(6 ) Defects in the accounts of receipts and payments: 

The accounts of receipts and payments of the Committee relating to the year 
1960 -61, vide Appendix - I have not been prepared in accordance with the 
instructions contained in Rule 19 of the Indian Lac Cess Rules ( as amended vide 
the Notification of the Central Government, Ministry of Food and Agriculture , 
No. F . 4 - 30 / 50 - Com ., dated the 20th November, 1950 ) . The rule inter - alia laid 
down that the accounts shall include all sums received and payment made during 
a financial year under the specified heads. The items which have been wrongly 
included in this account ( and the exact nature of such items) were brought to 
the notice of the local authorities , in details, in course of audit. The ambiguity 
of the " accounts " as prepared , is briefly indicated below : 

( i) The heads have been multiplicd , in contraventions of the instructions in 
the Rules. 

( ii) The heads, such as , " investment at cost, suspense account, security deposit 
with Electric Supply Co ., Amount recoverable from the Government of India , 
with State Government for supply of brood lac, Indian Lac Cess Committee, 
Statistical Section , Indian Lac Research Institute, Lac Research Institute , Lac 
Extension Officer , Motor / Cycle advance , Festival advance , Advance towards pay 
suspected to have been defalcated , Indian Lac Cess Committee Provident Fund , 
and Loss of cash suspected to have been defalcated " appear on both , the receipts 
and payments sides of the Account. The figures under these heads, as shown on 
the " receipts " side of the account, however, do not represent sums received during 
the year . Similarly the figures under these heads appearing on the “ Paym nts " 
side do not represent payments made during the year 1960 - 61. The above figures 
do not represent opening and closing balances of the account, as the balance of 
sums received and payments made ( which this accounts purports to show ) must 
represent cash balance ( in hand or in bank ). 

( iii ) The figures under some of the heads viz . " Investment at Cost" , security 
Deposit with Elec . Supply Co ., Suspense Indian Lac Cess Committee , Statistical 
Section , Indian Lac Research Institute , Lac Extension Officer, etc . shown on the 
" receipts " side do not at all represent receipts but these constitute " payments " 
made by the Committee long back and is not a receipt of the current year . 

( iv ) Contrary to the instructions in the Rules, the sums not received have 
been included on the receipts side of the account e . g . " Amount recoverable from 
the Government of India , Rs. 6 , 988 . 56 " " with state Government for supply of 
brood lac Rs. 19 , 997 . 57." 

( v ) Rs. 2 ,011 . 59 has been shown on the payment side of the account under 
head " Loss on sale / Redemption of securities " . There was actually no payment 
made on this account. 

( vi ) A sum of Rs. 3 , 15 , 661 - 29 was actually received during 1960 -61 on account 
of sale / redemption of securities ( investments ) , but the transaction has not been 
shown as such on the receipts side of the account. 


It would thus be observed that the accounts of receipts and payments relating 
to the ycar 1960 -61 presented an inaccurate picture of " receipts " and " Payments " 
during the year and the very purposc of maintaining this account was defeated . 
On the defects being pointed out, the local authorities stated that: 


( i ) The present system of the prcparation of the accounts of " receipts " and 
" payments " of the Committee was being followed for a long timc in the past and 
( ii ) Certain items (which , although do not represent receipts and payments during 
the year of accounts ) were being shown in the accounts with a view to cxhibit 
the financial position of the Committee . 

As to ( 1 ) above , the practice is found to be contrary to the procedure laid 
down in the regulations for the maintenance of the accounts of receipts and pay 
ments, as cited above, and it should be abandoned . 

As to ( ii ) above, the accounts in question proposes to show the " receipts " and 
" payments " as take place during the year of accounts . The exhibition of the 
" financial, position " is outside the scope of such accounts . The attempt to show 
the financial position of the Committee by interesting unauthorised and uncon 
Ventional modifications in the accounts of receipts and payments , in the manner 
it has been done gave vent to a wrong inference about the financial position of 
the Ccn -mittee and much of its assets and Liabilities have remained unexhibited . 


2504 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963/ SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART 1 – 


It was therefore suggested to the local authorities that the accounts of the 
receipts and payments relating to the year 1960 -61 be prepared strictly in 
accordance with the instructions contained in Rule 19 quoted above. 

It was also suggested that a statement be prepared , separately , to show the 
assets and liabilities of the Committee , instead of inserting modifications, and 
alterations in the prescribed form and contents of the accounts of receipts and 
payments . The statement though not specifically required under the rules to be 
prepared by the Committee would promote the clearness of the financial 
administration of the Committee. 

The suggestions were however , not acted upon by the local authorities. 
(7 ) Suspense Accounts : -- 

In the accounts of receipts and payments vidd Appendix I a total sum of 
Rs. 59, 744 . 69 has been shown on the payment side under " suspense " : 
(i) Indian Lac Cess Committee 

. . Rs . 23241 53 (Secy. I.L . C .C .) 
(ii) Statistical Section . . . . . . Rs. 926 -31 do, 
( iii) Indian Lac Research Institute . . . . Rs. 11873 . 95 ( Director, I. L . R . I.) 
( iv ) Lac Extension Officer . . . . . Rs. 23702. 90 (L . E . O ., I.L . C .C .) 

( a ) The amount represents net payments made in order to place the officers 
or their subordinates with funds. The payments were made on the basis of notes / 
letters demanding money . The purpose of payments in some cases was mentioned 
in a general way or not indicated at all in several other cases . Instances were 
not rare when the money received in this manner was refunded in cash (without 
utilization for the Committee s purpose ) after the lapse of some months. There 
was no claim preferred against the Committee to support such payments . The 
subordinate officers who were supplied with the funds were not authorised to 
incur any expenditure or to make disbursements on behalf of the Committee, 
certain sums collected by the officers on behalf of the Committee were also 
retained by the officers / servants of the Committee . The officers/ servants were 
not authorised to retain the money with them . The regulations regarding the 
disbursement of money on behalf of the Committee , as contained in Rule 20 ( 3 ) 
ibid , empowered the Secretary , Indian Lac Cess Committee , to make withdrawals 
from the Committee s account to meet expenditure relating to administration and 
bills relating to supply and services. It would thus appear that the regulations 
regarding the methods of payments had been disregarded 

( b ) The head " suspense " was not a prescribed head in the accounts of the 
Committee . There was no budget grant to cover the expenditure as booked 
under this head in the final accounts of receipts and payments of the Committee. 
As such , the transaction in question was unauthorised . 

( c ) The accounts of receipts and payments for 1960 -61, did not show the actual 
payments under the respective heads of accounts, e . g . a total sum of Rs. 16 ,028 87 
was actually spent by the Lac Extension Officer , I. L . C . C . during 1960 -61, under 
the following heads of account.. 


(Lac Extension Officer s bills Nos. 187 , dated January 1981 202 to 208 and 209 
to 215 , each dated March , 1961) . 


Rs. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 ,654 . 66 


B - VI-Lac Extension 

(it ) (a ) Contingencies . . . 
( 117 ) Nucleus Brood Farms 
(d ) Brood Labour , Contingencies etc. 
(e) Temporary Sheds . . 
( iv ) Lac cultivation in Forest arcas 


. 


6391 . 76 
5 ,333 . 69 
2 ,646 . 76 
16 ,026 .87 


In the accounts for 1960 -61, the expenditure was left unadjusted under the 
head " suspense L . E . O . " and it was debited to the proper head of account for the 
next financial year 1961- 62 , 


Sec . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 /SRAVANA 12. 1885 


2505 


As to the reasons for which this expenditure was not accounted for under the 
appropriate head of account for the year 1960 -61, the local authorities stated that 
it was due to the Ministry (Government of India ) having curtailed the grant 
abruptly towards the close of the year . This would apparently show that the 
accounts were manipulated by operating the head " suspense " to prevent the 
excess over the budget grant being shown in the accounts . Thereby , the control 
over the expenditure of the Committee through the sanction to the budget grant 
by the Government of India was rendered ineffective. 

The local authorities , however, expressed that steps were being taken to 
allow " imprest " to some more officers/ servants of the Committee. This would 
eliminate the unauthorised transactions under the head " suspense " and will also 
obviate the need of keeping the accounts for the month of March opened after the 
close of the financial year . The final action taken in this regard may please be 
communicated to this Omce . 


( d ) It was noticed that certain items of collection of money or receipt on 
behalf of the Committee by the officers / Staff were shown as credit balance under 
the head " suspense " . The reasons as to why the sums received were not Anally 
adjusted under the respective head of account and the money deposited into the 
funds of the Committee were not very clear. The balance outstanding on 31st 
March 1961 was Rs. 3 ,031 . 18 . The details are shown below . Some of these 
items were 3 to 4 years old . The credit items may please be cleared and finally 
adjusted under intimation to this Office. 
Suspense ( Credit ) 

Rs. 


(1 ) Secretary, Indian Lac Cess Committee 


. 


. 


. 
. 


(2) Director, Irdian Lac Research Institute 


. 


. 


. (1) 1957 - 58 

( 11 ) 1959 - 60 . 

(121) 1960 - 61 , 
. (iv ) 1950 -18 . 

(v ) 1958 - 59 , 
(vi ) 1959 -60 . 

(vii) 1960 - 61 
. ( viii) 1957 - 58 

(ix ) 1960 -61 


593 . 31 
1573 . co 
400 .00 
25 . co 

0 : 12 
125 . CO 
273 . 75 

3 . co 
38 .00 


(3) Lac Extension Officer 


. 


. 


. 


. 


, 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


3031 - 18 


(8 ) Loss due to sale of investments (Govt. securities) before maturity 
(Rs. 31,482 ) : – 

In order to And funds to meet the normal expenditure of the Committee, the 
investments in Govt . securities viz ., 3 per cent loan 1963 - 65 ( serial No . 412 ), 3 
per cent loan 1983 – 65 ( Serial No. 413 ) and 3 per cent National Plan Bonds , 1956 , 
of the face value of Rs. 95 , 000 , Rs. 73 ,400 and Rs. 50,000 respectively , which were 
held by the Committee since 26th August 1939 , 31st December 1952 and 31st 
March 1954, were sold during September 1960 , before the investments had 
matured . Against & total sum of Rs. 2 , 47 , 936 receivable in respect of these invest 
ments on thcir maturity (after September 1960 ) their premature sale realised a 
total sum of Rs. 2, 16 ,453 . 89 . Thus, the Committee sustained a loss of 
Rs. 31,482 . 11 in this deal. 

The securities were sold with the approval of the President, Indian Lac Cess 
Committee obtained in July , 1960. The regulations viz ., rule 20 ( 2 ) of the Indian 
Lac Cess Rules, as amended by Notification of the Central Government (Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture ) published in the Gazette of India No. S . O . 1958 , dated 
the 12th July , 1958, which governed the disposal of investments of the Committee 
in Government securities , inter alia prescribed that the moneys invested in 
Government securities shall be paid in the " personal Deposit Account" of the 
Committee as and when the investments mature. 

The local authorities argued that the old rule 20 (2 ) Ibid , (previously in force ) 
empowered the President of the Committee to sanction the disposal of the moneys 
invested by the Committee. They also cited a reference to Rule 20 ( 3 ) , now in force , 
which laid down that the cheques and all orders for withdrawals of the deposits 
or investments shall be signed by the Secretary and the President, but the Secre 
tary may draw cheques to the extent of Rs. 70, 000 each month . It is observed 
that the old rule 20 ( 2 ) , dated cited by the local authorities was not in force at 
the time of sanction to the sale or actual sale of the investments. It is further 


2506 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3, 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


[Part II 


observed that Rule 2013 ) ibid (now in force ) laid down the mode of signing the 
orders for the withdrawals of the investments and not the orders for the with 
drawal of the investments and not the orders according sanction to the sale of 
the investments . The fact that the investments were not to be sold betçre matu 
rity is amply borne out by the provisions of Rule 20 ( 2 ) ibid . Thus, It would be 
seen that the sale of the investments mentioned above was not in conformity with 
the provisions in rules . 

(9) Loss on Broodlac Farms: 

(1 ) The revenue and expenditure ( as detailed in respect of the 14 Brood Lac 
Farms run by the Committee in different States , for and upto the year ending the 
31st March , 1961 are shown below : 


Serial Name of Farms and Year in which started 
No . 


Total 
number 


For 1960 EI 


For tbe period from inception till the 

year ending 31- 3 - 1961 


SEC.$(li)] 


of 


Revenue 


trees 
March 1961 


Exp . as 
debited 


+ Profit 
- Loss 


Revenue 


Expenditure 


( + )Profit 
( - )Loss 


as 


debited 


630 


. 


296 . 10 
218 . 13 
406 . 40 


500 
2200 
816 
698 


auto 


243 . 64 


1904 :41 ( - ) 1608 . 31 
2473 20 - 2255 . 20 
2221. 52 ( - ) 1815 . 12 
1192 . 25 ( 2 ) 848 . II 
1534 . 75 ( ---) 1316 . 25 
2952 . 09 ( - ) 2450 


4731 .00 
1961 : 16 
783. 09 
870 . 15 
518 : 16 
104925 


13817 . 99 
8331: 49 
9189 . 5€ 
396932 
6998 . 37 
7013 . 06 


... 


218 . 50 
€61. 50 


1056 


(Rusmi) 
I Kankebar (Bihar 1957 ) 
2 Sikrabundia ( W . Bengal) 1957 -58 . 
3 Baratwa (Madhya Pradesh 1957 -58 . 
4 Bhainsa Mura Korba ( M . P .) 1957 - 58 

Baruka Tuiamura ( M . P .) 1957 - 58 . 
Chakri (Orissa ) 1959- 60 

Palas ) 

Turtianu (Bihar ) 1954 - 55 
8 Malichak (Bihar ) 1956 - 57 
9 Paini Parmachak (Bihar ) 1956 - 57 
10 Padakar ( M . P . ) 1958 - 59 , 
I1 Sondar (Maharashtra ) 1958 - 59 , 
12 Durgi (W . Bengal) 1958 -59 
13 Umaria ( M . P .) 1959- 60 . 
14 Chanderpur ( M . P .) 1959-60 , 


oou 


4313 
5130 
4252 


..::::: 


5960 


2544 - 16 
8068 . 32 
2352 . 26 
296 . 25 
114 . 25 
1158 . 91 
191 . 47 
332 . 12 


8988 


2107 . 73 ( + 436 . 43 
4919 11 ( + )3119 . 61 
2577. 36 )22510 
1512 . 72 ( - ) 1216 -47 
2206 . 98 - 2092 : 47 
1988 . II ( - ) 929 : 20 
2240 - 59 ( ) 2049 - 12 
1652 . 09 ( - )2.450 . 00 


( 9086 . 79 

- 8370 . 33 
( - 8.106 .47 

13099 28 

€480 . 21 

) 2993 .81 
( + ) 4128 . 80 
- 1994. 07 

% 685 . 25 
( - ) 3857 . 59 
( - ) 4844 . 17 
G )640 . 12 

) 3637 . 97 
- 2204 . 97 


15286 . 46 
10180 . 02 
3995 . 57 

546 . 37 
1000 75 
3742 . 72 
296 . 22 
904 : 19 


11157 . 66 
15174 : 19 
10680 . 82 
4403 . 96 
58.44 . 92 
4382 . 84 
3934. 19 
3109 . 16 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST8,1968/SRAVANA12,1885 


4012 


6000 


6000 


TOTAL 


50855 


17202 . 46 


32914 . 96 


- ) 1 4280 45 


45865. 80 


105038 . 03 ( - ) 59172 : 23 


2507 


2508 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART II 


It would thus be seen that the financial results of the farms were a loss of 
Rs. 14 , 280 .45 during the year 1960 -61 and a loss of Rs. 59 , 172 . 23 during the period 
from the inception of the farms till the year ending the 31st March , 1961. 


( 11) The expenditure only on wages for lac operations such as prunning ins 
pection , phoonki removal cropping scraping, repairs to fencing and wages of Lac 
Chaukidar were taken into account ( as shown in Col. 5 and 8 above ) . This was 
accordingly to the existing accounting system based on the Lac Extension Officers 
letter No. GF /46, dated 11th July 1961 and the approval of the President, Indian 
Lac Cess Committee in his letter No , D . O . 3 - 94 / 60 -Com . III dated 10th August 1961. 
Under this procedure , the royalty on trees was also required to be debited to the 
account of the farms, but no amount had actually been so debited for the reason 
that the royalty had not been paid by the Committee, so far . The provision for 
the royalty , as payable , should have been made and the expenditure involved 
should have been debited to the account of farms each year. 


( iii) In accordance with the same accounting procedure ( as referred to above ) 
no portion of expenditure on cost of brood , construction of building and fencing 
and of the salaries of the supervisory staff had been debited to the revenue and 
expenditure accounts of the farms, even though the farms are maintained for the 
achievements of results, other than purely commercial (as discussed in sub - para. 
( iv ) below ) , it was necessary that the Anancial results of the farms were ex 
pressed in normal commercial form so that the cost of operation be accurately 
known and the financial control be facilitated . The account of revenue and ex 
penditure of the farms should therefore , also include a fixed percentage of Indirect 
charges relating to the farms. 


( iv ) The broad objections of the farms were stated to be as follows, (vide 
letter of the Lac Extension Officer and the President, Indian Lac Cess Commlttee 
quoted in sub - para , ( ii) above ) : 
( a ) to raise through the Lac Extension the economic condition of the people , 

chiefly tribals . 
( b ) to increasing earn foreign exchange for the country and 
( c ) to demonstrate to the Lac cultivators the improved methods of scien 

tific lac cultivation . It was also held that " the scheme may be called 
a welfare scheme" and that " the profits of brood lac farnis are to be 
gathered on these three aspects and not directly on the finance of 
the farms themselves" . 


It is however , observed that the fulflment of the objectives was dependent on 
the outturn of the farms. If the farms did not give a substantial return the 
demonstration of the improved scientific methods of Lac cultivation as also the 
cxample set by these Farms were likely to discourage the Lac Extension and the 
scheme would do little in the way of welfare of the people . According to Annexure 
VI (page 122 of the proceedings of the meeting of the Committee in October , 1963, 
the expected outturn per tree , per year , was Rs. 2 . 75 in the case of Palas and 
Rs. 19 / - in the case of Kusum trees . The actual outturn of the farms as shown 
above, was far below the expectation . 

Further , the President, Indian Lac Cess Committee had observed in his letter 
dated 10th August , 1961, quoted above that " there should still be room for making 
thesc farms pay for themselves. If they did not, either their location should be 
deemed as unsuitable or their operation not quite efficient" . Judged from this 
standard , excepting the two farms at Turhamu and Malichak ( in Bihar ) , the 
remaining 12 farms were continuously running at a deficit since their inception 
fas shown in sub - para ( i) above ) . 


Further from the comments offered by the Lac Extension Officer (vide his 
letter No. BF 780 , dated 26th December 1961 to All Lac Inspectors etc . ) , it trans 
pired that the expenditure on lad operation per tree in some of the farms was 
comparatively high . This shows that there was ample scope for economy in 
running these farms. 

iv ) The total number of trees in these farms as in July 1960 and in March 
1961 are indicated below . The figures are based on the Lac Extension Officers 
letter No. I. T ./ 129, dated 17th December 1960 to the Secretary, Indian Lac Cess 
Committee and the revenue and expenditure account for an upto the year ending 


Sec . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3 , 1963 / SRAVANA 12 , 1885 


2509 


31st March 1961 appended to his Memo. No. BF / 80 , dated 26th December 1961, 
respectively : 


Firms 


July 60 March 61 Shortage 
Kusum Kusumi Kusumi 


860 


630 


230 
160 


I, Kanke bar . 
2 . Sikra Bundia 
3 . Bagratwa . 
4 . Bahainsamura Korba . 
5 . Barnka Tujamura 
6 . Chatri , . . 


500 
2200 
810 
698 
1056 
(Pales ) 

4313 
5430 
4252 


75 


(Palas ) 

301 


660 
2200 
816 
700 
I131 
(Palas ) 

4614 
6235 
4300 

812 
Khair 

5960 
8988 
6772 
6000 
56048 


7 . Turbate 
8 . Malichak 
9 . Pain Parmachak 


805 


48 

812 
Khair 


Io . Pardakar . 
11. Sondar . 
12 . Durgi , 
13 . Umarin . 
14 . Tonalderpur 


5960 
8988 
4012 
6000 
50855 


2760 


5193 


Compared with the position in July 1960 , it will be seen that in March 1961, 
there was a shortage of 5, 193 number of trees , i. e., 3 ,914 Palas, 467 Kusum and 
812 Khair trees. 

In reply , the Lac Extension Officer stated that the figures showing the num 
ber of trees as in March , 1961 did not seem to be correct. An enquiry was 
being made of the field staff. 

The exact position with reasons for heavy shortage may please be communi 
cated to this Office. 

( 10 ) Improper expenditure of the funds of the Committee French Polishing 
Unit : 

Rş. 21, 736 . 82. 
( a ) ( i) With a view to increase the consumption of lac products, a scheme 
for carrying out house to house demonstration - cum -publicity of the use of 
French Polish (for furniture ) was sanctioned for one year, at a net cost of 
Rs . 18 ,500, as detailed below ( Item No. 34 of the Governing Body meeting , 19th 
February 1959 ) . 
Expenditure: 

R », 
3 Polishers @ Rs. 5 . 00 per day for 300 days . 

3 , 500 . 00 
I Carpenter @ Rs. 5 . 00 per day for 300 days , 

1 , 500 . 00 
3 Sanders @ Rs. 2 . 50 per day for 300 days 

2 ,250 . 00 
I Manager - cum - canvass or @ Rs. 250 / - p .m . . 

3 ,CCO . CO 
Publicity Rs. 300 .00 p . m . 

3 ,600 . 00 
Accommodation , Office expenditure 

3 , 000 . 00 
Leaflets other printing, stationcry etc . 

1 ,350 . 00 
Sundries , Uniform for workers ctc . 

800 . 00 
Cost ofmaterials , 

4 , 500 . 00 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


, 


. 


24 , 500 . 00 


Revenue : 

No charge was to be made for demonstration . The mending and repairing 
charges (wages of carpenter ) and the cost of materials were to be charged . 

Rs. 
Carpenters Wages . . . . . . . 

. . 1 , 500 . 00 
Cost ofmaterials . . . . . . . . . . 4 , 500 . 00 


TOTAL 


, 


6 , 000 . 00 
. Rs. 18,500 . 00 


Net expenditure 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2510 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 9, 1969/SRAVANA 12, 1885 


[PART ]I-- 


Th c demonstration - cum - publicity centre was to maintain a stock of shellac , 
bleached lac and seed lac for distribution at fair prices to consumers if there 
was a demand . 


( 2 ) Accordingly , a French Polishing Unit started functioning at Delhi, with 
effect from 9th November 1959 . The term of this Unit was extended till 31st 
December 1961 ( item No. 5 Governing Body meeting, 4th March 1961 ) . The 
manufacture and marketing of the French Polish was left to a private firm , 
although the committee had been running a Lac Production Unit for common 
use . The Oriental Housing and Furnishing Co . Ltd . was manufacturing and 
marketing Orient French Polish . The French Polishing Unit, established by the 
Committee at Delhi, engaged itself upon carrying out the demonstration and 
publicity of the " Orient French Polish ” . 


( 3 ) The entire expenditure of this Unit was financed out of the funds of the 
Committee . Besides , during March 1960 to September 1960 the Oriental Adver 
tisers spent a sum of Rs. 2 , 921 . 32 on the advertisement of Orient French Polish , 
This amount was eventually re- imbursed to the Oriental Advertisers out of the 
funds of the Committec . 

( 4 ) No carpenter was engaged . There was no expenditure as also no receipt 
on this account. It was supposed that the Unit was using certain materials for 
demonstration . The quantity of such materials consumed and the source of its 
supply to the Unit were not indicated in the records. The records also did not 
show l the Oriental Housing and Furnishing Co . Ltd . was supplying the polish 
ing materials and if they did the considerations for making such offer was 
unknown. There was , however, no specific purchase of polishing materials nor 
any credit to the funds of the Committee, on account of the recovery of cost of 
materials . 

(5 ) The Unit did not hold any stock of Lac for distribution on fair price on 
behalf of the Committee . 

( 6 ) The work reports of the Units gave an account of efforts made by the 
workers of the Unit in pushing the sale of the Orient French Polish and their 
canvassing to the people for using Orient French Polish in preference to other 
French Polishes marketed by different firms. The workers engaged themselves 
in selling the Orient French Polish Kits and during 1980 - 81 and 1961 -62 ( till 
November, 1961) they had sold 2 ,937 Kits of the value of Rs. 14 , 685 approxi 
mately ( the price of a Kit reported to be Rs. 5 approximately ) . The entire 
sale proceeds was received by the Oriental Housing and Furnishing Co . Ltd . 
who were marketing those kits . Thus the staff of the Unit seemed to have been 
working as sales man of said company . 

( 7 ) Upto December , 1961, the Committee had incurred an expenditure of 
Rs. 21,376 .82 in running the French Polish Unit at Delhi. The Unit was con 
tinuing even after December, 1961, without sanction to its continuance by the 
Committee . 

( 8 ) The working of the Unit reflects that the expenditure of Rs. 21,736 . 82 
so far incurred was not fully compensated . 

In reply it was stated that the interests of the Committee were fully compensated 
by free accommodation , Supervision by one of the Director of the firm and good 
will of the firm . As regards the work reports on which the conclusion are based 
are from Junior persons and were not correct . 

11 . Deposit for works (outstanding amount Rs. 15 , 24 ,577 - 58 ) . 

It transpired that a total sum of Rs. 15 , 24 ,577 . 58 had been deposited with the 
C . P . W . D . viz . Executive Engineer, Hijli Building Division , Kharagpur, Central 
Division Dhanbad , Central Electrical Division II , Calcutta , and Central Division 
III , Calcutta, during the period from 1952 -53 to 1960 -61 for works of construction / 
repair to buildings, road , water supply and electrlication . 

( a ) In respect of the deposit of Rs. 2 ,84 ,614 . 00 (vide items Nos. 1, 12 and 14 of 
Appendix VII ) it was learnt that the works had since been completed , but the 
reports of the completion of work and accounts of actual expenditure refund of 
the unspent amount had not yet been obtained . 

( b ) In respect of the deposit of a total sum of Rs. 2 , 84 ,055 . 58 ( vide items 2 to 
11, 13 and 15 to 20 of Appendix VII ) the works did not seem to have been started 
so for, although some of these deposits had been made some 4 to 5 years ago . 


Slu . 3 (ü ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 8 , 1968 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 


2511 


( c ) The works relating to the deposits of Rs. 9,55, 908 .00 stated to have been 
taken up . 

( 11) It further revealed that although the account of actual expenditure out of 
any item of deposits made by the Indian Lac Cess Committee had not yet been 
obtained from the Central Public Works Department, certain amount originally 
deposited for a particular work was shown to have been transferred for another 
work as unspent balance of the previous deposit. This was likely to create 
confusion in the settlement of the original items of deposits . The transfer may 
not be made until a complete account of the deposit for a particular work was 
furnished . 

( ili) Further , it was noticed that certain works which were originally to be 
taken up by the Hijli buildings division , Kharagpur had been transferred to the 
Central Division , Dhanbad . Elforts made so far to locate the items of deposits 
with the respective Executive Engineers had not proved fruitful. A clear statement 
of the uptodate position of deposits with each Division of the Central Public 
Works Department, may please be prepared after obtaining a report to that effect 
from the Executive Engineers concerned and the settlement of the account of each 
deposit work may please be expedited . 

( 12 ) Expenditure and delay in the establishment of the Bleached Lac Plant: - . 
An expenditure of Rs 31 ,601:23 had been incurred so far , during the year 1958 
to 1961 on the designing and the purchase of equipments for a Bleached Lac Plant 
to be established at the Indian Lac Rescarch Institute , Namkum ( Ranchi) . The 
Plant is reported to be under experiment and it has not yet been brought into use 
the Production Unit of the Institute . 

So far sanctions to the purchase of equipments at a total cost of Rs. 30, 335 . 00 
had been accorded , from time to time during the period between January to 
October , 1959. The total expenditure involved in the purchase of all component 
parts of the Plant including its crection , till the stage of putting the plant in 
working order did not seem to have been given due consideration . The local 
authorities stated that the Plant will have to go through various modifications 
till it achieved the mechanical perfection aimed at and for that reason the sanc 
tions to expenditure based on time to time modifcation were unavoidable. 

It reflected that an indefinite liability was being incurred . It was desirable 
that a limit be fixed upto which the expenditure could be or was contemplated to 
be incurred in connection with the establishment of this plant. 


2912 


APPENDIS — I 

INDIAN LAC CESS COMMITTEE 
Statement of Receipts and Payments Account for the year ending 31st March , 1961. 


Receipt 


Rs. np . 


Rs. nP . 


Payment 


Rs. aP . 


Rs. NP . 


Rs. PnP . 


Administration of the Commitee 


Opening Balance : 
Cash Balance 


Indian Lac Cess Committee CA 
Subsidiary Account . . 


13 ,706 99 
78 ,181 24 


68 , 181 19 
12 , 146 07 


16 ,895 56 


1,08, 783 79 


Amount in Transit 


Measures pertaining to the 
function of the Committee . 
( 17 ) Secretary s Office . . 
(tt ) Medical Aid to Staff of the 

Committee 
B , Measures taken to improve and 

develop methods of cultivation 

and manufacture of lac . 
O IL RI (Exchiding Project 

and expenditure on Estate ) . . 
(11) Estate including new cons 

traction 
(1 ) Special Project : 


Amount transferred from the current 

Account on 31st March , 1960 , but 
11 course of collection (not account 
for in the Subsidiary Account of 
1959 - 60 ) . . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIAAUGUST3,1968/SRAVANA12,1885 


4,40,399 30 
1, 54 ,477 90 


80 , 000 c 


1, 60 , 327 26 


Balance with High Commissioner for 

India (London ) 


8 , 300 37 
16 ,08 ,063 23 


26 , 132 76 
59 ,444 38 
10 , 844 15 
20 ,099 44 

9 ,370 43 


Investment at cost . 
( a ) Suspense Account 

Security deposit with Ranchi 

Electric Supply Co Ltd , 
( 4 ) Security Deposit with Gondia 

Electr.c Co Ltd . 


( a ) Analytical Laboratory 
b ) Regional Freld Stations 
(c ) Production Unit . 
(d Bleached Lac Pilot Plants . 
( e ) French Polishing Unit 

Scheme for Pilot Plant studies 
of Laboratory experiments 
of Hygenic disposal of Lac 
Factory wastes and recovery 
of lac Dye. 


4 ,000 00 

150 00 


4 , 150 00 


405 . 00 


(5 ) Amount recoverable from the 

Govt. of India. 


(1) Rent for land and for air - condi 

tion in Godown at Calcutta . 


(io ) Lac Extension 
( 0 ) Grant in aid to other lastitutes 

for research 


1,56,798 . 93 

17 ,992 . 44 18, 95 ,364 . 73 


[PART11 


2 ,552 . 51 
4, 336 - 05 


(c) Measures taken to improve 

and develop marketing of lac. 
Statistical Section 
D . MISCELLANEOUS : 


6 ,988 . 56 


61, 186 -41 


SEC.(11)] 


At end of 1958 - 59 
for 1959 - 60 
( ) Training of Burmese candidate 

urtier Colombo Plan . 
Total Expenditure 
Less Amount received . . 
(With State Government for supply of 

Broodlac ). 


2 ,878 . 86 
2,236 - 00 


34 ,174 . 36 


642 - 86 


O Publicity 
( 0 ) Miscellaneous 
Loss on Sale Redemption of 

Securities 


Ni 
34 , 174 . 36 


2 ,011 . 59 


19, 997: 57 
31, 778 - 99 


11,01,520 .88 


do Indian Lac Cess 

Committee 
(8 ) Statistical Section 
(it ) Indian Lac 

Research Instt. 
( 0 ) Lac Extension 

Officer 


12 , 009 : 43 

159 . 00 
18,014 . 89 
4 ,443 . 50 


Closing balance as at end 31- 3 -61 
Current accounts 
Subsidiary account . . 
Balance with the High Commissioner 

for India , Lundon 


45 , 738 . 58 
46 , 847 . 42 


92,586 . 00 


8 ,300 37 


12 , 90 ,390 . 35 


[ nvestment at cust 
( a ) Suspense accoum ! : 


advance 

1, 195 . 00 
( 11 Festival Advance 2 ,399 . 28 
(ott) Pilot Survey 
Advance . 

2,989 . 51 
(vii ) Advance to 

yards pay sus 
pected to have 

been defalcated . 
( ) Indian Lac Cess Committee Provi 

dent Fund A ! C . 
Deposit 

24 ,513 . 93 
Less amount of 

subscription 
raised 

21, 354 72 


( ) Security deposit with Ranchi 

Electric Supply Co. 
(* ) Security deposit with Gondia . 

Electric Supply Co. . . 


1 ,099 . 00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST3,1963/SRAVANA12,18852313 


I ) 


42.970 72 


74 ,358. 71 


150 . 00 


4 , 150 . 00 


(6 ) Amount recoverable from 

Government of India for 
trajning of Burmese candi 

dates 

Last years balance B F . 
159 . 21 Less amount received during the 

year 


612 . 86 


541 .27 


101: 59 


Excess to be adjusted 

Loss of cash suspected to have been 

defalcated (clo from 1958 -59 ) . 
(g ) Imprest , Indian Lac Research 

Institute 
Imprest , Lac Extension Offi 

cer (I. L . C . C .) . . . 


3 , 970- 82 
500 . 00 Add amount of expenditore booked 

during the year 
200 . 00 


134. 46 


236 os 


2014 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Imprest, Indian Lac Cess Com 

mittee 


With the State Governments for 

supply of broodlac 


1 , 296 . 32 


500 . 00 


Imprest with Statistical Inspectors 
Imprest postage account 


TOTAI CO. 


40 . 00 
40 . 00 


5 ,682. 87 


1 ,280 . 00 


24 ,92 ,797. 60 


18, 56 ,859 .60 


Deduct : - Outstanding Liabilities of 

the previous years brought forward : 
Liabilities for income 

100 . 00 
Ljabilities of Deferred 
Pay 

1,000 . 00 


1 , 100 . 00 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST9,1963/SRAVANA12,1883 


2 . Income during the year : 
Money received from the Govt . of In 

dia under Agricultural head 40 on 

accountof ass collectica . 
Interest on investments . 
Receipts from Lac Production Unit . 
Revenue received from Broodlac 

Farm . . . . . 
Other receipts 
Grant from the Government of India 
Construction ofLac Godown ! 


18 ,55 ,359. 60 

Indian Lac Cess Committee , 23, 241 : 53 
6 ,05 , 386 . 23 ( it Statistical Section 

926 . 31 
(111 ) Indian Lac Research Insti 
tute , 

11 ,87395 
(iu ) Lac Extension Officer , 

23 , 702 . 90 
45 ,013 - 50 ( 0 ) Motor / Cycle advance 

5 , 375 . 68 
10 ,212 . 62 ( 01) Festival Advance . 

2 , 173 . 25 
( on ) Advance towards pay US 
12 ,213 48 pected to have been defalcated . 
e been defalcated - 

1 , 378 - 11 
32 ,799 . 39 

Indian Lac Cess Committee Provider. Futu . 


68 , 671- 73 


19, 68 , 908 .00 


Less Deposit made to the C . P . W . D . 

for construction of air conditioned 
godown . . 


Amount of subscription realised 

from the employees of the Com 

mittee , . 
Less amount deposited : : 


26 ,888 . 94 
26 ,810 . 36 


9 , 55 . 908 . 00 


[PartII 


13 ,000 . 00 


78 -08 


Less Recovesy of previous rent due 

from the Government , . . 


Less amount of excess deposit 

made in 1959 - 60 . . . 


6 , 988 . 96 


159 21 


Sxc.$(li)] 


6 ,011 . 44 


81 . 13 


4 ,317 . 12 


1 , 694 32 


Not excess deposit made 

Loss of cash suspected to have 
defalcated (CO , from 1958 - 59 ) . 


3 ,970 : 32 


Less rent paid during the year . 
+ Outstanding liabilities income tax 
for deposit into Govt. Account 

Bilance brought forward . 
Add. amount realised during the 

year . 


100 . 00 


4 , 023 . 59 


4 , 123 . 59 
3 , 799 . 08 


324 . SI 


Less amount deposited during the 

year 
Deferred pay 
Balance brought forward 
Add . Receipts during the year , 


1 ,000 . 00 
2 , 180 . 00 


( 8 ) Imprest funds : 

Imprest with Assistant Lac 
Extension Officer Jabal 

pur , 
1) Imprest with statisticalins 

pectors. 
( 18 ) Imprest with postage ac 
Dount 

. 


200 . 00 
40 . 00 


3 , 180 . 00 
2 , 168 - 00 


1 ,012 . 00 


0 . 94 


210 .94 


78 ,647. 49 


Less refunded 
Indian Lac Cess Committee Security 
Deposit . . . 

GRAND TOTAL . . 


7 , 429 . 44 


25 ,71,445 . 09 


25 ,71,445 . 09 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST8,1968/6AAVANALA18652515 


[No. 3 -61 / 62 -Com . IV .] 
N , K . DUTTA , Under Secy . 


2516 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUG . 9 , 1963 /SRAVANA 12, 1885 [ Part II - Sec. 8 (it)] 


- 


DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 


Bombay , the 24th July 1963 


S . O 2195 - In exercise of the pwer conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule II , clause 
( b ) of q ib - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( I ) of rule 23 , of the Central Services (Classificatiot , 
Control and Adpcal) Rules , 1957 , the President hereby makes the following further anendments 
in the norifica ton of the Government of India in the Department ofAtomic Energy , No. S . R . O . 
637 dated the 28th February 1957 ,namely : 


In the Schedule to the aforesaid notification : 


( a) In Part I, the follow ng entry shall be inserted as entry (vi) and the 

existing entry No . ( vi) shall be re-numbered as entry (v11) : 


All" 


" Posts in the Jadu 
guda Minlog Project. 


General Manager 
Jaduguda Mines . 


General Marager 
Jaduguda Mincs. 


(b ) In Part II , the following entry shall be inserted as entry ( vi) and the 

existing entry (vi) shall be re -numbered an entry ( vii) 


- 


- 


- 


I 


3 


« Pots in the 
Jadugu ja Mining 
Project . 


General Manager 
Jaduguda Mines, 


General Manager 
Jaduguda Mines . 


All 


Joint Secretary , 
Department of 
Atomic Energy . " 


(c ) In part III , the following entry shall be inserted as entry ( vi) and the existing 

entry ( vi) shall be lenumbered ag entry (vli ) : 


3 


4 


5 


" Posts in the Administrative 
Jaduguda Mining Officer , Jadu 
Project, 

guda Mines . 


Administrative 
Officer, Jaduguda 
Mines , 


All Gereral Mar eger, 

Jaduguda Mirca ." 


[No. 32 (3 )/ 55 -Adm . ] 
P . MURALIDHARAN , Dy. Sccy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1963 


