- - 


. - 


. . - 


- 


- - 


रजिस्ट्री सी० डी० 222 


II - 3 - C ) जबरन REGISTERED No . D. 222. 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India , 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


स० 46 
No. 46 ) 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, नवम्बर 15 , 1969/ कातिक 24, 1891 
NRW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
separate paging is given to this part in order that It may be filed 

as a separate compilation. 


- 


-. - : . 


-- - - 


भाग II -- ख 3--- उपख ( ii ) 

PART II — Section 3 — Şub -section ( u ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गये विधिक प्रावेश और प्रचिनाए । 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 30th October 1969 
S . O . 4542. .. -In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act , 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 14th 
May , 1969, by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , in Election Petition 
No. 14 of 1967 . 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD 

CIVIL SIDE 

ORIGINAL JURISDICTION 
Dated Allahabad the, 14th day of May , 1969 

PRESENT 
The Hon ble T . Ramabhadran - - Judge. 

ELECTION PETITION No. 14 OF 1967 
Order on the application of Sri $. N . Misra -- Petitioner . 

IN RE . 
Sri S. N. Misra -- Petitioner . 

Versus 
Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia and others — Respondents . 

( 4921 ) 


4922 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 


By the Court 
This is in continuation of my Order of 31st January 1969. Whereby the Regis 
trar of this Court was directed to make suitable arrangements, for all the votes 
cast in this disputed election to be re - scrutinised and re- counted in accordance 
with the relevant rules and regulations. Under the supervision of a senior officer 
of this Court Additional Registrar or Joint Registrar and in the presence of the 
contesting parties . I had further directed that a report should be submitted to 
me in due course to enable me to proceed further - showing the fiumber of valid 
votes secured by each candidate. 


In pursuance of the above order , the Additional Registrar, assisted by the 
Joint Registrar of the Court have re - scrutinised and recounted all the votes cast 
in this disputed clection . The Additional Registrar has submitted his report dated 
27th March 1969. Which is accompanied by a chart showing the number of valid 
votes secured by each candidate as also the total number of disputed ballot 
papers . A futher reference to this chart will be made in due course . On 28th 
March 1969, the Election Petitioner submitted an application (marked A - 263 ) 
wherein , It has been stated that even if all the disputed hallot papers (numlier 
ing 464 ) — as indicated in the report of the Additional Registrar are held to be 
votes not cast for the election Petitioner , even then it would be found that he had 
secured a majority of the valid votes cast at the election . It was accordingly 
prayed that further orders be passed . 


The case came up for hearing on 4th April 1969 , when the learned counsel for 
the parties prayed that copies of the report submitted by the Additional Regis 
trar be made available to them to enable them to study it and make their sub 
missions. That request was granted . When the case again came up on 8th April 1969 
Shri Rajeshji Varma, learned counsel for the contesting respondent prayed for, and 
was granted time till the 15th instant to file objections to the report of the Addl. 
tional Registrar. Sri Varma undertook to furnish the Election Petitioner with a 
copy of his objections by the evening of the 14th Instant. Learned counsel for 
the Election Petitioner was further permitted to file a rejoinder, if any, thereto 
within a day or two thereafter . 


A copy of the objections preferred by respondent No . 2 Sri Nathu Singh was 
delivered to the Election Petitioner on 14th April 1969, but the objections in 
original were presented to this Court only on 23rd April 1969. Sri Rajeshji 
Varma, learned counsel for respondent No . 2 , submitted that it was due to a mis 
understanding that the original objections were not presented to Court on 15th 
April 1969 , as indicated in this Court s order of 8th April 1969. In this connection 
he pointed out that copies of his objections were actually delivered to the peti 
tioner on 14th April 1989 as directed by this court in its order of 8th April 1969. 
He added that he was under the impression that the objections should be Aled in 
Court only when the case was listed for further hearing . In the circumstances , 
the de ay in Aling the objections were condoned , as the copy of the objections was 
delivered to the Election Petitioner in good time and it did not appear that any 
prejudice was caused to hir . or anybody else . 


Along with the objections, there was an application numbered as A - 289 , where 
in this Court was requested to send specimen ballot papers of Kamalganj Segment, 
along with specimen ballot papers of the other segments, to a Paper and Printing 
Technologist for examination and report as to whether the two sets of hallot 
papers were similar as regards the quality of the papers , printing , Ink and the 
numbering of the ballot papers . By means of another application presenter on 
the same day (numbered as A -272 ) the contesting respondent No . 2 sought the 
leave of this Court to amend his written statement by the addition of a new 
paragraph thereto , in the following terms: 
“ That the election petitioner is not entitled to be declared elected on the 

basis of general re- count of yotes at Kamalgunj Segment as the said 
ballot papers are spurious, Inasmuch as neither the paper is the same, 
nor the ink is the same, nor is the printing same." 


On 23rd April 1969, the Election Petitioner flled his rejoinder to the objections 
Aled by Sri Varma. 


Arguments of the learned counsel of the parties were heard at some length on 
the 23rd and 24th April, 1969 whereafter judgment was reserved . I now proceed 
to deliver judgment. 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4923 


za 


The objections filed by respondent No. 2 Şri Nathu Singh were to the following 
effect : 

( a ) That ballot paper of Kamalganj Segment differed from the ballot papers o. 
other segments as regards the quality of paper and the printed matter , 

(b ) A large number of packets , containing ballot papers were not found pro 
perly sealed . The seals of many envelopes were found either missing or in a 
broken condition . 

( C ) The Additional Registrar did not check the serial numbers of the ballot 
papers with reference to Form 16 prepared during the counting soon after the 
polling in 1967. A speciflc request, in this behalf had been made to him , but he 
( Additional Registrar ) did not take note of that suggestion . On the other hand , 
be procceded with the counting in a " mechanical" way , without applying his mind . 


( d ) A large number of ballot papers were accepted by the additional Registrar 
as valid votes cast in favour of election petitioner , despite the objections thereto 
raised by the contesting respondent. Similarly a large number of ballot papers . 
which should have been accepted as valid yotes for respondent No . 1 Dr. Lohia 
were rejected by the Additional Registrar. If a re - scrutiny and re - count of all 
the ballot papers was done in an " intelligent manner" as opposed to a " mechani 
cal manner " — then it would be found that Dr. Lohia , and not the election peti 
tioner, had secured a majority of valid votes, 


It was , accordingly , prayed at the foot of the objections that the report and 
the chart submitted by the Additional Registrar be rcjected and the objection be 
permitted to lead evidence in support of hiö Objections. 

As indicated earlier , the objections were accompanied by a written request 
(vide, application A - 269) that specimen ballot papers of Kamalganj Segment be 
sent to a Paper and Printing Technologist , along with specimen ballot papers of 
other segment for comparison and report regarding the quality of paper printing, 
ink and numbering, mention has already been maile of application A - 272 made by 
the contesting respondent on the same day ( 23rd April, 1969) praying for amend 
ment of his written statement by the introduction of a new paragraph reproduced 
above . 


In his rejoinder dated 23rd April 1969 the election petitioner has traversed all 
the objections raised by the contesting respondent to the report of the Additional 
Registrar. The prayer made by respondent No . 2 in his application A - 269 i.e . 
that specimen ballot papers of Kamalganj Segment be sent to the Paper and Print 
ing Technologist for comparison with specimen ballot papers of other segments , 
has been vigorously opposed . 


I heard the arguments of the learned counsel for the parties at considerable 
Iength , on 23rd April 1969 and the following day. Mr. Rajeshji Verma, Learned 
counsel for the contesting respondent No. 2 , made a statement at the bar on 23rd 
April 1969 to the effect that he would confine his arguments to the objections 
regarding the ballot papers of Kamalganj Segment i. e , to those referred at ( a ) 
supra . In other words , the objections referred to at ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) supra were 
not pressed . Since , however, the matter is before me, I have looked into the 
notes recorded by the Joint Registrar during the ro-count. I find that on 21st 
February 1989, Sri Shyam Krishna Pandey , acivocate , had lodged a written objec 
tion before the Additional Registrar to the efect that the packets containing 
Hallot papers of Polling Stations Nos , 49 and 48 (Ahorua Rajarampur) were not 
found properly sealed , i.e . the seal was not on the envelop but on knot o the Icose 
Sutli. It was further alleged therein that the envelopes torn from one side com 
pletely . The Joint Registrar, on the same day made the following note : 
" The packets were in torn condition at ends . The packets were tied with 

sutli, the knots of which were sealed . The packets were taken out 
of sealed gunny bag which was kept in another gunny bag with seals , 
the lacs of some of which were broken with no sign of tampering." 


Similarly on an objection made by Sri Pandey relating to Bag No. 3, the note 
of the Joint Registrar runs as under : 
Similarly on an objection made by Sri Pandey relating to Bag No. 3 , the ricte 

wroken . There was , however , no sign of tampering. When this bag 
was opened , another scaled bag was found inside with the enclosed 
seal. The packets were taken out of this Inner bag ." 


4974 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 (PART II- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- . 


. 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


On yet another objection of a similar nature lodged by Sri Pandey , relating 
to Polling Station No. 1 (Dalupur Sultanpur) , the note of the Joint Registrar 
was to the following effect : 
" The packet was tied with sutli. The knot of the Sutli was sealed and that 

seal was intact. The envelope was, however , torn at one end . 

The envlope was taken out of sealed bag." 
On a written objection lodged by Sri Tej Pratap Singh , counsel for respon 
dent No . 2 , bearing date 20th February , 1969 to the effect that the envelopes con 
taining ballot papers did not bear proper scals and most of them were in torn 
condition , the note made by the Joint Registrar was as under : — 
“ No envelope with improper seals has been pointed to me. 

(Sd .) A . S . SRIVASTAVA , 

21- 2 - 1969. 

( 12 A.M .)." 
The learned counsel for the election petitioner submitted that although the 
outer seals of the bags were found broken , in some cases due to frequent handling . 
nevertheless the inner seals were found intact in all cases. He pointed out that 
the entire election record was brought to this Court under armed escort , in pur 
suance of the order of the Hon ble Chief Justice dated 24th April, 1967. Shri 
M . P . Tandon , Deputy Registrar of this Court, was specially deputed to proceed 
to Fatehgarh to bring all the ballot papers under armed guard and to hand over 
the papers so brought to the Joint Registrar of this Court. In these circums 
tances , it was urged by Sri K . L . Misra , no tampering was possible since the 
ballot papers have since then been in the strong room of this Court . In para 21 
of his reply to the objections raised to the Additional Registrar s report by 
respondent No. 2 , it was stated by the election petitioner that respondent No . 2 
had already made inspection of Form 16 of all the segments of the constituency , 
other than Bidhuna , and they had consequently with them the necessary details . 
It was further asserted therein that no further application was made before the 
Additional or the Joint Registrar at the time of recount sceking reinspection of 
Form 16 . As regards the contention that several ballot papers which were liab e 
to be rejected were wrongly counted in favour of the election petitioner , and 
conversely , that several ballot papers which should have been counted in favour 
of Dr. R . M . Lohia respondent No . 1, were wrongly rejected , the submission of 
Sri K . L . Misra , learned counsel for the election petitioner was that the total 
number of disputed ballot papers were only 464 ( vide the chart forwarded by 
the Additional Registrar ) and even if all these disputed ballot papers were held 
to be valid votes cast in favour of Dr. Lohia , even then , it was contended , Sri 
S . N . Misra , clection petitioner would lead hy 554 votes . 

I havc referred to these matters in some detail although these objections were 
not pressed during arguments to be on the safer side. In view of what has been 
said above . I find no force in these objections. ( b , c and d supra ) , 

Coming to the objections stated at ( a supra ) , it was vehemently urged by 
Sri Rajeshji Verma, learned counsel for respondent No. 2 , Sri Nathu Singh , that 
it was cxpedient in the interests of justice that a few specimen ballot papers 
of Kamalganj Segment be sent to a Paper and Printing Technologist, along with 
a few specimen ballot papers of other segments , to enable him to compare the 
same and report whether the two sets of ballot papers are similar as regards 
the quality of the paper , printing , ink , and numbering. In this connection Sri 
Verma pointed out that this election petition was Aled on 7th April, 1967, Issues 
were framed on 18th December, 1967. Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia respondent 
No. 1, the returned candidate , died on 12th October , 1967. On 25th January , 
1968 this Court hold that the recriminatory petition filed by Dr. Lohia abated on 
his death . It was only on 19th March , 1968 that the election petitioner submitted 
his inspection application (numbered as A - 93 ) . Sri Verma further pointed out 
that although counting took place on 22nd and 23rd February , 1967, 1. e , imme 
diately after the conclusion of polling , nevertheless no objection was taken by 
the election petitioner before the Returning Officer regarding the interchange 
of entries in Form 16 , in respect of the total number of valid votes secured by 
him ( election petitioner ) and respondent No. 3 ( Sri Sri Krishna ) . Sri Varma 
further polnted out that in his recount application dated 23rd February, 1967, 
submitted by the election petitioner to the Returning Omcer at Farrukhabad , 
the only ground taken was that a large number of invalid votes had been wrongly 


Sec. 3(ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4925 


counted in favour of Dr. Lohia , while in the case of the election petitioner a very 
large number of valid votes cast in his favour had been wrongly rejected . In 
other words, there was no allegation therein that votes cast in favour of the 
election petitioner had been wrongtu .ly entered in Form 16 as having been 
cast in favour of respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna , and vice versa . Sri Varma 
again pointed out that although in his written statement dated 23rd October , 
1967 respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna had opposed the election petition , never 
theless when notice of the inspection application A - 93 was issued to him , he 
Aled an affidavit in court on 2nd April, 1968, In paras 5 and 6 of that affidavit 
Sri Sri Krishna stated that after the election was over he had occasion to visit 
places where he was shown in Form 20 to have secured a very large number 
of valid votes, and came to the conclusion that he could not have actually 
secured such a large nubmer of votes. In his estimation the number of votcs 
secured by him at various polling stations was confined to onc or two - digit 
numbers , and therefore he ( Sri Sri Krishna ) was not in a position to contradict 
the assertions made by the clection petitioner in this regard . Shri Varma 
further submitted that it was sirange that all the interchangcs, relied 
upon by the election petitioner took place betwcen him and Sri Sri Krishna 
and no other candidate. In Sri Varma s submission it was extraordinary that 
both in Schedule I to the election petition , as well as in the inspection appli 
cation A - 93 the election petitioner, without inspecting the relevant ballot papers, 
could have given such accurate details regardine the alleged interchange of 
bal ot papers between him and Sri Sri Krishna . According to Sii Varma this 
could not have been the result of any guess work . If it was based on infor 
mation supplied by the election petitioner s election or counting agents, then 
it was so argued one would have expected that in the election petition itself , 
there would have been an allegation to thc effect that the entries had been 
interchanged in Form 16 . There is , however , no such allegation in the election 
petition . I was, accordingly , requested to infer that some tampering has taken 
place , and in order to be on the safer side to send a few specimen ballot papers 
of Kamalganj Segment, along with similar ballot papers of the other segments , 
to a paper and printing Technologist for comparison and report with regard to 
the quality of the paper , printing, ink , numbering , etc . I, was further 
requested to permit the respondent No . 2 to add a fresh para in his 
written statement, as indicated earlier in this judgment. Yet another 
arguinent, advanced by Sri Varma was that since there was no specific allega 
tion in the election potition that the entrics in Forms 16 of the relevant polling 
stations of Kamalganj Segment have been interchanged as between the election 
petitioner and respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna, and since no specific issue on 
this point has been framed , no declaration as desired could be granted in favour 
of the election petitioner. Reliance was placed in this connection on Nagubai 
Ammal and others v . B . Shama Rao and others ( A . I. R . 1956 S . C . 599 ) , wherein 
their Lordships observed : 
"" The truc scone of this rule is that evidence, let in on issues on which 

the parties actually went to trial should not be inade the foundation 
for decision of another and different issue , which was not present 
to the minds of the parties and on which they had no opportunity 

of adducing evidence. " 
I was requested , in the alternative , to dismiss the election petition so that the 
constituency could be called upon to elect a fresh representative on arce ection . 

Sri K . L . Misru . lcarned counsel for the clection petitioner , in his reply sub 
mitted that although in the election petition there was no specific allegation 
that in the relevant Forms 16 the total number of votes secured by the election 
petitioner and Sri Sri Krishna have been interchanged . novertheless in Schedule 
I thereto , a clear allegation was made that a specificd number of votes cast in 
favour of the elcction petitioner have been counted for Sri Krishna . It was 
submitted that counting is a continuous process and includes the State when the 
figures are cntered in Forms 16 and 20 . As regards the plea that there was no 
issue regarding the alleord interchanged , Sri Misra s argument was that issue 
No. 2 ( c ) as framed by this Court and which runs as under . was wiric enough 
to cover the plea that in Forms 16 the total number of votes . secured by the 
election petitioner , were wrongly noted against the name of Sri Sri Krishna and 
dice versa ; - 

2 ( C ) Whether the result of the e ection . in so far as it concerns the 

returned candidate has been matcrially affected by the improper 
reception of 1, 965 and 5 ,039 votes which were validly cast in favour 


1026 TIL GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24, 1891 PANT I 


of the petitioner, but were wrongly counted in fayour of respondent 

No. 1 and other respondents, respectively ?" 
Sri Misra further pointed out that in Nagubai Ammal and others v . B . Shama 
Rao and others ( supra ) their Lordships went on the observe: – 
“ But that rule has no application to a case where parties go to trial with 

knowledge that a particular question is in issue , though no specific 
issue has been framed thereon , and adduce evidence relating there 


to ." 


It was submitted that the contesting respondent knew perfectly well that the 
question of interchange of number of votes in Forms 16 was in issue and evi 
dence relating thereto was adduced by election petitioner , and consequently 
there has been no prejudice. 

Sri Misra further pointed out that in this Court s order of 31st January , 1969 , 
findings were given on Issue No . 2 ( c ) to the effect that in respect of polling 
stations Amethi Kohna , Baraun , Papihapur, Budhnamau , Sheikhpur - rustampur. 
Bahora and Malikpur the e ection petitioner Sri Misra actually secured 1, 509 
votes in all. While Sri Sri Krishna, respondent No . 3 , secured 118 votes in all 
but in the relevant Form 16 the figures were interchanged , with the result that 
Sri Misra was shown to have secured 1, 391 votes less than what he actually 
secured . Further in Form 20 of Bidhuna Segment there was a totally mistake , 
due to which Sri Misra was shown to have secured 200 votes less than what he 
had actually secured in that Segment, making a grand total of 1,591 votes 
counted short. Sri K . L . Misra submitted that these are Andings of the Courts 
and it is not open now to respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh , to seek to get 
round these findings by raising a new plea the effect that the ballot papers of 
Kamalganj Segment had been tempered with . Sri Misra further pointed out 
that neither in his written statement, for subsequently , did the contesting res 
pondent ever raise this kind of objection . It was accordingly contended that 
it was too late in the day now to challenge the ballot papers of Kamalganj 
Segment on the ground that they were spurious. Sri Misra Vigorously contend 
ed , therefore, that no case has been made out now to send specimen ballot 
papers of Kamalganj Segment, along with specimen ballot papers of other 
segments , to paper and Printing Technologist for comparison and report. In 
the same way it was contended that , at this fag end of the case, it was not open 
to respondent No. 2 to seek to amend his written statement by insertion of a 
new paragraph containing a new plea , i.e ., that the ballot papers of Kamalganj 
Segment were spurious, their paper, ink , and printing being different from those 
ballot papers . I was , accordingly , requested to reiect both the applications 
A - 269 and A272 made in this behalf by respondent No. 2 . 

I have considered the submissions made on either side with care . As indi 
cated above , on 31st January , 1969 this Court arrived at somr findings on Issue 
No. 2 ( c ) , and then this Court ordered a general rescrutiny and recount in the 
interests of justice . so that the correct position could be ascertained - as there 
was no guarantee that similar mistakes were not committed in forms 16 of other 
segments . In pursuance of that order a general rescrutiny and recount has been 
done by senior officers of this Court. The result of the recount is given in the 
following chart submitted by the Additional Registrar : - - 
S . No , Sri S . N . Mista Dr. R . M . Sri Nathu Sri Sri Sri R . B , L . Disputet 

Lohia Singh Krishna Katiyar . 


175 


60 


1190 
1 861 
1573 
2063 


134 


J . Kamalg:inj 24448 14781 15555 2252 
2. Urmardlia 18584 19469 16334 1472 
3. Chhibranaji 24817 21127 22527 1247 
4 . Bidhuna 

13776 

23636 15312 2595 
5 . Kannalij 14683 

14277 

8503 924 
Grund Total : 94308 

78231 

9490 
According to the above chart (excluding disputed votes ). 
Sri S . N . Misrala is hy 1013 (94308 — 23270 – 1018 votes ) . 


716 


28 


7403 


464 


Sd V . N . VERMA 
27 - 3 -69" 


Sec . 3 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/ KARTIKA 24, 1391 4927 


The point for determination is whether there is any valid reason to reject the 
result of the re - count as arrived at by the Additional Registrar of this Court . 
It may be that in the election petition , and in the schedules , thereto , the election 
petitioner did not specifically allege that in the relevant Forms 16 the total 
number of valid votes secured by him and respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna had 
been interchanged . There was , however , an allegation in Schedule I to the election 
petition that specific numbers of votes cast in favour of the election petitioner 
had been counted in favour of Sri Sri Krishna . At this fag end of the case 
strong reasons must be shown before the result of the re -count as arrived at 
by the Additional Registrar, can be discarded , and the matter re -opened on the 
lines suggested by respondent No. 2 , l.e . by sending specimen ballot papers of 
Kamalganj and other segments to the Paper and Printing Technologist for com 
parison . In view of all the circumstances mentioned above. I am not satisfied 
that a case has been made out for adopting such a course. 

Applications A -269 and A - 372 must accordingly fail. . 

While discussing Issue No. 14 (" To what reliefs, if any , is the petitioner 
entitled ? " ) in my order of 31st January , 1969, I had said that the correct over - all 
position could be ascertained , only when all the ballot papers cast in the disputed 
election were again scrutinised and counted . I had further observed that in the 
interests of justice a general re - count was accordingly essential. A finding on 
Issue No. 14 could not, therefore , be given at that stage and was postponed pend 
ing re -count. Now that the re -scrutiny and the re- count have been done by the 
oficers of this Court and objections thereto ( as discussed above ) have been dis 
posed of, the Court has to give a finding on Issue No. 14 . As indicated above, 
even if all the disputed votes , i.e . numbering 464 , as stated in the chart forwarded 
by the Registrar, are held to be valid votes , cast in favour of Dr. R . M . Lohia , 
even then the election petitioner Sri S . N . Misra would lead by 554 votes over 
his nearest rival Dr. Lohia . The relevant figures will be 94 , 308 votes cast in 
favour of Sri Misra and 93 , 754 votes cast in favour of Dr. Lohia . The total 
number of votes secured by the other candidates need not be referred to here 
as none of them anywhere near the election petitioner or Dr. Lohia , 
Under Section 101 of the Representation of the People Act : 
" If any person who has lodged a petition has, in addition to calling in ques 

tion the election of the returned candidate , claimed declaration that 
he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the 

High Court is of opinion : 
( a ) that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate recelved a 

majority of the valid votes ; or 
( b ) that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt 

practices the petitioner or such other candidate would have obtained 
a majority of thọ valid votes . 


the High Court shall, after declaring the election of the returned candidate to be 
void declare the petitioner or such other candidate , as the case may be, to have 
been duly elected ." 

In his election petition Sri S . N . Misra had no doubt alleged commission of 
corrupt practices by Dr, Lohia . Issues in this regard had been tramed . Since , 
however , no evidence was led on these issues no findings have been given . In 
his recriminatory petition Dr, Lohia had alleged commission of corrupt practices 
by the election petitioner . Dr, Lohia , respondent No. 1 , died on 12th October, 
1967. On 25th January , 1968 this Court held that the recriminatory petition Aled 
by Dr. Lohia abated on his death . It was for this reason that no issues were 
framed on the basis of the recriminatory petition . The position , therefore, is 
Although both the election petitioner Sri S , N . Misra and respondent No. 1 Dr. 
Lohia had accused each other of having committed corrupt practices, these allega 
tions and counter - allegations were not gone into at the trial for reasons stated 
above. Therefore , the provisions of section 101 ( b ) of the Act do not come into 
play in the present case. We are , therefre, left only with the provisions of section 
101 ( 2 ). In other words, the court has only to see if the election petitioner has 
received a majority of valid votes cast at the clection , as alleged by him in the 
election petition . As indicated above, the re- scrutiny and the re - count of all the 
ballot papers done by the Additional Registrar of this Court has revealed that 
even if all the disputed ballot papers are held to be valid votes cast in favour of 
Dr. Lohia even then the election petitioner , Sri S . N . Mişra received 94 ,308 valid 
votes and Dr, Lohia 93 , 754 votes. In other words Sri S . N . Misra secured 554 
votes more than Dr, Lohia . In terms of section 101 ( a ) of the Representation 


4928 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II — 


of the People Act ( supra ) a declaration has to be passed in favour of the election 
petitioner. In his election petition the prayer made by Sri S . N . Misra is , firstly , 
that the election of respondent No . 1 Dr. R . M . Lohia be declared vold , and 
secondly , further declaration be given that he ( election petitioner ) had been 
validly elected by a majority of valid votes to the Lok Sabha from the Kannauj 
67 Parliamentary Constituency . In view of the facts and circumstances set out 
above , such a declaration has to be granted . 


In his election petition , Sri S . N . Misra had further prayed for costs against 
respondent No. 1. Under section 119 of the Representation of the People Act costs 
shall be in the discretion of the High Court. Under the proviso to Section 119 . - . 
" Where a petition is dismissed under clause ( a ) of section 98 , the returned 

candidate shall be entitled to the costs incurred by him in contesting 
the petition and accordingly the High Court shall make an order for 
costs in favour of the returned candidate ." 


The proviso does not apply here because the petition is not being dismissed . For 
reasons stated below , I am of the opinion that the petitioner is not entitled to an 
order for costs against any of the respondents : 


(a ) As already indicated , Dr. Lohia , the returned candidate , died on 12th 
October, 1967. After his death , there has been only a nominal contest in this 
case . Sri Nathu Singh , respondent No. 2 , no doubt elected to continue to oppose 
the petition , as provided by section 116 of the Act, but the contest, as mentioned 
above , has not been either steady or vigorous . For instance , while some of the 
petitioner s witnęgses were being examined , e . g . P . W . 8 Sri R . P . Singh , Assistant 
Returning Omcer , none appeared on behalf of Sri Nathu Singh respondent No . 2 
to cross - examine the witnesses with the result that, for the ends of Justice the 
Court had to put certain questions to the witnesses and get matters clarifed . 


( b ) The case is now being decided on the basis of a general re - scrutiny and 
re- count. It is noteworthy that this course was vigorously opposed by the election 
petitioner , who went to the extent of Alling a Review Petition (No . A - 256 ) , after 
this Court passed the order on 31st January , 1969 directing a general re - scrutiny 
and re - count. That petition was rejected by me on 14th February , 1969. 


( c ) I may further point out that although this election petition was Aled as 
early as 7th April , 1967 and issues had been framed on 18th December , 1967, it 
was only on 19th March , 1988, that the election petitioner submitted his inspection 
application A - 93 . It was as a result of the order of inspection , made by this 
Court , on that application , that the election petitioner was able to adduce evidence 
regarding the interchange of the total number of votes cast in his favour and in 
favour of respondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna is Forms 10 of some polling stations 
in Kamalganj Segment. 


In all these circumstances, I think it will be only fair and equitable that the 
election petitioner should bear his own costs . As already directed in my order 
of 31st January , 1969, the election petitioner will also bear the entire cost of the 
re - scrutiny and re -count under the supervision of the Additional Registrar of this 
Court . 


Issue No. 14 is decided accordingly , 

ORDER 
Accordingly , the election petition is allowed . It is declared that the election 
of Dr. R . M . Lohia , respondent No . 1 , to the Lok Sabha from Kannauj 67 Parlla 
mentary Constituency , is vold . It is further declared that the election petitioner 
Sri S . N . Misra was duly elected , by a majority of valid votes to the said Sabha 
from the above constituency . 

The election petitioner, as well as the contesting respondent, will bear their 
respective costs of this petition . The election petitioner , also bear the entire cost 
of the general re -scrutiny and re - count, as directed by this Court s order of 31st 
January, 1969. 

( Sa .) T . R . 
Dated 14th May, 1969 . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ; THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4929 


ANNEXURE 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE AT ALLAHABAD 

CIVIL SIDE 


ORIGINAL JURIŞDICTION 

Dated Allahabad the 31st January , 1969 
PRESENT: 
The Hon ble T . Ramabhadran - Judge . 

ELECTION PETITION No. 14 OF 1967 
Sri S . N . Misra - Petitioner, 

Vs, 
Dr, Ram Manohar Lohia and others - Respondents. 

By the Court 
This clection petition arises out of the election to the Lok Sabha from 
Kannauj - 1967 Parliamentary Constituency , held in 1967. There were five candi 
dates in the field , including the petitioner Sri S . N . Misra . Polling in the various 
segments of the constituency took place during the period 15th to the 21st Feb 
Tuary , 1967. Counting was done on 22nd and 23rd February , 1967. The result 
was declared on 24th February 1967, when Dr. R . M , Lohia , arrayed as respondent 
No. 1 in this e ection petition , was declared elected . The number of votes, secured 
by the various candiadtes was as under : - 
1 . Sri S . N . Misra ( Petitioner ) 

93, 106 
2 . Dr. R . M . Lohia ( respdt. No. 1 ) 

93,578 
3 . Sri Nathu Singh (respdt. No. 2 ) 

78, 296 
4 . Sri Sri Krishna (respdt. No. 3 ) 

11,080 
5 . Dr . R . B . L . Katiyar ( respdt. No. 4 ) 

7, 363 
As many as 11, 158 ballot papers were rejected as invalid . In addiition , there were 
114 tendered votes . 

In this election petition , which was presented on 7th April 1967, the allega 
tions made by the election petitioner were as follows: 

( A ) The members of the counting staff were all Government srevants , e . g ., 
servants of the Uttar Pradesh Government, who had been carrying on agitation 
to secure certain demands, and being inspired by some propaganda carried on 
by respondent No . 1, they were hostile to the petitioner . A large number of votes , 
which should have been counted aş valid ones on favour of the petitioner were 
not so counted . On the other hand , a large number of invalid votes were counted 
as valid in favour of respondent No. 1. Again , several valid votes, cast in favour 
of the petitioner , were wrongly mixed up and counted in fayour of one or other 
of the respondents . Further , several valid votes cast in favour of the petitioner , 
were improperly rejected as invalid . Bundles of ballot papers, cast in favour of 
the petitioner , though purporting to be made up of 50 ballot papers each , actually 
contained more than 50 such ballot papers , whereas , on the other hand , similar 
bundles of respondent No . 1, contained , in many cases , less than 50 ballot papers 
each 

( B ) There was considerable overcrowding at the places were counting was 
done. In particular , during the counting of votes pertaining to Kamalgani 
Assembly Segment at Fatehgarh , and of the Bidhuna Assembly Segment at 
Etawah , a large hostile crowd of unauthorised persons entered the counting hall 
and made it impossible for any fair counting to be done. 

( C ) The light. provided in the various counting halls , was insufficient and 
severely handicapped the process of counting. The counting agents of the 
petitioner found it very difficult to watch the progress of counting , e . g ., acceptance 
and rejection of ballot papers . Due to the presence of hostile crowds, the peti 
tioner s counting agents were unable in many cases , to detect illegalities and 
irregularities that were being committed by the counting staff. It was risky for 
them to raise any objection . 

( D ) The Assistant Returning Officer , who was in charge of the counting in 
each of the Assembly Segments was unable to exercise adequate supervision over 


4930THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II 


the acceptance of ballot papers , with the result that the process of acceptance 
was left entire y to the counting clerks. It was only where the counting clerks, 
or the Counting Supervisor, chose to take the ballot papers to the Assistant 
Returning Officer that the latter got an opportunity of scrutinising them . 

( E ) At polling station Jarari in Kamalganj Assembly Segment No. 311 , polling. 
commenced an hour later than the scheduled time, with the result that a large 
number of voters who had arrived at the polling station at about 4 p . m . and 
wanted to cast their votes in favour of the petitioner , were not permitted to do 
so and were sent back without casting their votes. Similarly at polling station 
No . 69 Bhadousa in the Kamalganj Assembly Segment, and at Polling Stations 
Nos. 11, 12 , 36 and 37 in No. 311 Bidhuna Assembly Segment, the presiding off 
cers who were hostile to the petitioner deliberately sent back many yoters who 
wanted to vote in favour of the petitioner , 

( F ) At a number of polling stations, the members of the polling staff, who 
were hostile to the Congress Party , deliberately double -marked ballot papers, 
validly cast in the favour of the petitioner , so as to render them invalid . The 
above irregularities and illegalities affected the result of the election ; otherwise 
the petitioner would have been successful. 

( G ) Rspondent No. 1 , and other persons with his connivance and consent, hired 
tractors fitted with trailors , trucks, jeeps, bullock - carts and tongas , for the free 
conveyance of voters to and from the polling stations, and thereby committed the 
corrupt practice mentioned in section 123 ( 5 ) of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred to as " the Act " ) . 

( H ) Despite the efforts made by the petitioner to get his objections to the 
process of counting recorded and a receipt be given to him of the objections 
tendered , no such receipts were issued to him . Consequently , the petitioner was 
obliged to send a telegram to the Returning Officer complaining about the mis 
conduct of the officers concerned and the erroneous rejection of ballot papers . 
An application for recount was also made to the Returning Officer Sri R . M . 
Bhatnagar , who erroneously rejected the same. 


On the above premises the election petitioner Sri S . N . Misra prayed for a 
declaration that the election of respondent No. 1 Dr. R . M . Lohia to the Lok Sabha , 
from Kannauj - 67 Par iamentary Constituency be declared void , and further he 
( the election petitioner ) be declared to have been validly elected , by a majority 
of valid votes to the Lok Sabha from the above constituency . 

Notice of the election petition was issued to the respondents . 

Written statements were filed by all the respondents . In his written state 
ment, respondent No . 1 Dr. R . M . Lohia denied that any irregularities had been 
committed , either during the polling or the counting of votes. As regards the 
strike of certain employees of the U . P . Government, it was stated that the strike 
had ended much before the date of poll. It was further denied that the members 
of the counting staff were hostile to the petitioner , or that they had been instigated 
by respondent No. 1. On the other hand , it was stated that the State employees , 
who had gone on strike were favourably disposed towards the petitioner, as he 
was himself one of their office -bearers. The allegations made in the election 
petition regarding over - crowding in the counting halls , presence of large and 
hostile crowds, wrongful rejection or acceptance of ballot papers , etc . were denied , 
On the other hand , it was asserted that the polling and counting took place 
according to rules and regulations. There was adequate arrangement for main 
taining law and order ; the atmosphere was peaceful: light was sufficient no voter 
was sent back without casting his yote polling at Jarari polling station did not 
start late ; counting agents had adequate opportunity to watch the progress of 
counting and to scrutinise the rejected hallot papers ; adequate supervision wag 
exercised by the Assistant Returning Officers ; and the application for recount 
made by the election patitioner was rightly rejected by the Returning Officer as 
It had no substance. Legal pleas regarding the presentation of the election peti 
tion and the lack of material particulars of alleged corrupt practices were also 
taken . 

In his written statery nt, respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh similarly denied 
the allegations made in the election petition and asserted that the polling and 
counting was done properly , according to rules and regulations. It was further 
stated therein , that many ballot papers counted in favour of the petitioner , should 


Sác. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4031 

- 

- - - = = = 
have bcen rejected, as they were invalid , and if they were excluded , it will be 
found that the petitioner had secured even a lesser number of votes than declared 
by the Returning Micer . 

In his written statement, respondent No . 3 Sri Sri Krishna , after denying the 
allegations made in the election petition , alleged that the same had been merely 
filed with a view to enlist public support , rather than to vindicate any public 
light. Accordingly , it was alleged that the election petition was inala fide and 
not maintainable, and the petitioner was not entitled to any relief claimed by : 
him . 

Dr. R . B . L . Katiyar , respondent No. 4 , in his written statement made many 
allegations which seem to have little relevancy to the present proceeding . 

A recriminatory petition under section 97 of the Act was also fled by Dr. Lohia . 
whercin it was alleged that the election of the election petitioner Sri S . N . Misra , 
would have been void had he been declared the returned candidate , on account 
of various corrupt practices allegedly committed by hiri, e . g ., appeal to the voters . 
to vote on the ground of caste and religion ; illegal gratification paid to voters to 
vote for the election petitioner ; hiring and procuring of vehicles for the free con 
veyance of voters to and from the polling stations. Dr. Lohia died on the 12th 
October, 1967 ( vide the statement made at the bar on 17th October 1967) , and 
it was held by me on 25th January 1968 that consequent to his death , his recri 
minatory petitioner abated . 
The following issues were framed on the election petition : --- 

( 1 ) Whether the election was accompanied by as many copies there 

of, as there are respondents mentioned in the petition , every such copy 
being attested by the petitioner , under his own signature , to be a true 

copy of the petition ? (On petitioner ) If not, what is the result ? 
( 2 ) Whether the result of the election , in so far as it concerns the returned 

candidate , has been materially affected by the following ( On petitioner ) 
( a ) The improper rejection of 3 ,656 votes validly cast in favour of the . 

petitioner, as detailed in Schedule II to the petition . 
( b ) The improper reception of 1260 votes in favour of the respondent 

No. 1 , although being invalid , they should have been rejected , as 

detailed in Schedule III to the petition . 
(c ) The Improper reception of 1, 965 and 5 , 039 votes, which were valldly 

cast in favour of the petitioner , but were wrongly counted in favour 

of respondent No. 1 and other respondents , respectively . 
(d ) Some bundles, containing ballot papers validly cast in favour of the 

petitioner, contained more than 50 ballot papers each , but were . 
treated us containing only 50 ballot papers each , while some bundles 
containing less than 50 bal ot papers each , cast in favour of respon 
dent No. 1 , were treated as bundles containing 50 such ballot papers 

each , therchy depriving the petitioner of about 1, 000 votos . 

If so, what is the result ? 
( 3 ) Whether the counting and scrutiny of votes at Fatehgarh and Etawah 

was hampered by over - crowding , insufficient light and the presence of 
a large hostile crowd, making it impossible for the Assistant Returning 
Officer to exercise sufficient control or superyision over the checking 
of ballot papers, leaving the task entirely to thc counting clerks ? (On 

petitioner ). If so , what is the result ? 
( 4 ) Whether the counting clerks, being servants of the U . P . Government, 

were hositle to the petitioner (being the Congress candidate ) on ac 
count of their persistent agitation against the Government in connec 
tion with certain demands, and had consequently gone on strike, their 
hostility being further aggravated by the propaganda carried on by 
respondent No. 1 ? If so , to what extent did it affect the process of 

counting of ballot papers (On petitioner ) If so, what is the result ? 
( 5 ) Whether at the Polling Station Jarari in Kamalganj Assembly Segment 

No. 311, the polling commenced an hour later than the scheduled time, 
with result that about 300 voters, who had come to the polling station 
to cast their votes were denied an opportunity to do so, and were sent 
back without casting their votes ? (On petitioner ) If so , what is 
the result ? 


- 1932 THE GAZEZ TE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 


(6 ) Whether in Polling station Bhadausa No . 69 , in the Kamalganj 

Assembly Segment, and the Polling stations Nos, 11, and 12 Kaithwa. 
in Bidhuna Assembly Segment No . 311 , and in Pol ing Stations 36 and 
37 Bikhara Primary School, also in Bidhuna Assembly Segment No. 311 , 
the Presiding Officers were hostile to the petitioner and deliberate y 
sent back about 100 voters in thc case of Bhadausa , about 215 voters in 
the case of Kaithwa, and about 100 voters in the case of Bikhara 
Primary School, without letting them cast their votes ? ( On petitioner ) 

If so , what is the result ? 
( 7 ) Whether at Polling Stations Bidhuna , Kamalganj, Chhibramau , Kannauj 

and Umardha thc polling staff , consisting of Government employees 
and teachers , being hostilc to the petitioner , deliberatel double -marked 
bal ot papers (aggregating to 1 ,036 as detailed in Schedule IV to the 
petition ) , validly cast in favour of the petitioner, with a view to render 
them invalid , with the result that they were rcjected ? (On petitioner ) 

If so , what is the result ? 
( 8 ) Whether respondent No . 1, other persons with his consent, hired tractors 

( fitted with trailers ) trucks, jeeps, tongas and bullock - carts for the 
free covneyance of electors to and from the polling stations, on the 
dates of polling, as detailed in Schedule V to the election petition ? 

(On petitioner ) If so , what is the result ? 
( 9 ) Whether the allegations contained in paras 10 ( a ) to ( d ) , 14 to 17 and 

23 and 24 of the election pctition are bad for vagueness and lack of 
material particulars and , as such , are liable to be struck off ? (On 

respondent No. 2 ) . 
( 10 ) Whether the allegations of corrupt practice made in Paras 23 and 24 

of the election petition cannot be enquired into in view of thc death of 

respondent No. 1 ? (On respondent No. 2 ) . 
( 11) Whether efforts were made on behalf of the petitioner to bring the 

irregularities committed at the time of counting to the attention of the 
Returning Omcer, but the same were ignored ? (On pctitioner ) If so , 

what is the result 
( 12 ) Whether a sum of Rs. 1 ,000 was pajd by respondent No. Dr, R . M . Lohja , 

to respondent No. 4 . Dr. R . B . L . Katiyar with the object of including 
him to withdraw from the election ? If so , what is the result ? (On 

petitioner ) . 
( 13 ) Whether the clection of respondent No. 1 is yoid and liable to be şct 

aside ? 
( 14 ) To what reliefs , if any , is the petitioner entitled ? 
The first part of issue No. 1 which was treated as a preliminary issue , was 
decided by me in favour of the election petitioner on 25th January 1968. Accord 
ingly the second part of this issue — it was held — did not arise . 

On issue No. 9, which was treated as legal in nature, I held on 25th January 
1968 that the election petitioner should supply certain further particulars, and 
accordingly he was granted three weeks time to supply the same. Issue No . 10 was 
decided against respondent No . 2 on the same date ( 25 - 1 - 1968 ) . 

After that the election petition was due to come up for recording evidence on 
the remaining issues after the election petitioner supplied certain further parti 
culars , as directed by the Court. 

In the meantime, on 19th March 1968, an application purporting to be under 
sections 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii ) , 101 and 102 of the Representation of the People Act, Rule 
03 of the Conduct of Election Rules , 1961, Order 13 , Rule 10 , C . P . C . and section 
51 C . P . C . was put in by the election petitioner , wherein he sought the leave of 
the Court to inspect the packets , containing ballot papers cast in favour of the 
petitioner but rejected , ballot papers accepted in favour of respondent No. 1 and 
other respondenst, etc. Notice of that application was issued to the other side. 
It may be mentioned , at this stage, that after the death of respondent No. 1 Dr. 
R . M . Lohia , it was respondent No. 2 Sri Nathu Singh , who has been contesting 
the election petition . On 2nd May 1968 Sri K , L , Misra, learned coursel for the 
election petitioner , made a statement to the effect that for the present he confined 
his prayer for inspection to the ballot papers of eight polling stations, namely , 
Amethi, Kohna , Baraun , Papihapur, Budnamąu , Sheikhpur- Rustampur, Ujarpur 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4933 . 


Sultanpatti, Bahora and Mallkpur. Subsequently , on 23rd August , 1968 , orders 
were passed on the inspection application to the effect, that the election petitioner 
was permitted to inspect ballot papers cast in his favour, and in favour of res 
pondent No. 3 Sri Sri Krishna, at the cight polling stations relerred to by Sri K . L . 
Misra in his statement made on this Court on 2nd May 1966, namely , Amethi 
Kolina, Baraun , Papihapur, Budhanamau , Sheikhpur- Rustampur, Ujarpur -Sultan 
patti, Bahora and Malikpur, Ballot papers to be inspected were to include those 
which , though scemingly cast in favour of these two candidates , were rejected . 
Inspection was, accordingly , done in the presence of an officer of the Court . 

The election petitioner on 9th September, 1903 moved an application ( A - 124 ) 
wherein it was stated that the above inspection had revealed that votes cast in 
favour of the petitioner had been wrongly shown as having been cast in favour 
of respondent No . 3 Sri Sri Krishna , and similarly votes cast in favour of Sri 
Sri Krishna had been wrongly shown as having been cast in favour of the 
petitioner, in Forms 16 and 20 0 . 8 , in Polling Station No. 1 Amethi Kohna the 
petitioner had actually received 162 votes , while respondent No . 3 Sri Sri Krishna 
had received only 11 votes , but in Forms 16 and 20 the entries had been reversed , 
i. e ., 1l votes were shown as having been secured by the election petitioner and . 
162 votes by Sri Sri Krishna Şimllar mistakes were committed in Forms 16 
and 20 pertaining to Polling Stations No. 11 Baraun , No . 21 Papihapur , No. 23 
Budhnamau , No . 31 Sheikhpur - Rustampur , No , 70 Bahora and No. 94 Mallkpur. 
The slips attached to the bundles of ballot papers , however, stated the correct 
position . On these permises , it was claimed by the clection petitioner in Para 9 
of the above application ( A - 124 ) that he was entitled to be credited with 1 ,519 
valld votes instead of only 117 , in respect of the above polling stations, and on 
the necessary correction of entries being made, it would be found that the 
petitioner had recelved a majority of valid votes in the election to the Lok Sabha 
from the Kannauj Parliamentary Constituency . In Para 10 of the same petition 
it was alleged that in Form 20 oť Bidhuna Segment of 67 Kannauj Parliamentary 
Constituency the Counting Officrs and the Returning Officer had made a totalling 
mistake . The total number of votes secured by the election petitioner came to 
13, 838 and not 13 , 638 as shown in the above Form 20 . This meant that the 
petllioner was to be credited with 200 more votes . This , taken in conjunction 
with the figures mentioned in Para 9 of the above petition , it was so claimed 
entitled the petitioner to a declaration that he had been duly elected to the Lok 
Sabha by a majority of votes. 


Arguments of the learned counsel for thc parties were heard on the above 
application . Without expressing any opinion on the various contentions embodied 
in this application , I directed on 16th September, 1968 that evidence of the parties 
on the issues framed in the case would first be recorded . The witnesses produced 
by the election petitioner were examined on 7th November , 1968 and subsequent 
dates , while those for respondent No . 2 were examined on 21st November , 1968 
and the following day 2nd December , 1968 was then fixed for arguments . Argu 
ments were completed by 3th January , 1969, whereupon judgment was reserved . 

I may point out. at this stage that the election petitioner has confined his 
case to issue No. 2 ( c ) and has not led any evidence on the remaining issues , 
while issue No. 14 , is merely concerned with the reliefs , if any , to which the 
petitioner would be entitled . 


Finding 
Issue No. 2 ( c ) : 
It would be convenient to reproduce the above issue 
" Whether the result of the election , in so far as it concerns the returned 

candidate , has been materially affected by the improper reception of 
1 , 965 and 5 , 039 votes which were validly cast in favour of the 
petitioner but were wrongly counted in favour of respondent No . 1 

and other respondents respectively ? " 
It was vehemcntly urged by Sri K . L . Misra , learned counsel for the election 
petitioner , that as a result of the Inspection of the ballot papers of the above 
mentioned polling stations, it has been established that 1 ,391 ballot papers , which 
should have been counted in favour of his client ( the election petitioner ) were 
wrongly counted in favour of Sri Sri Krishna respondent No. 3 . In addition , 
in Form 20 of Bidhuna Şegment the total number of votes cast in favour of the 


4934 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Paks II 


petitioner has been wrongly shown as 13,638 instead of 13 , 838 . In other words , 
200 more votes should have been credited in favour of the petitioner . This means 
that the petitioner was entitled to be credited with 1 ,591 more voles , which , 
it was contended , was more than sufficient to bridge the gult belween hini and 
the returned candidate . It was pointed out that Dr. Lohia respondent No. 1, had 
been declared elected by a majority of only 472 yotes. 

In support of his arguments Sri K . L . Misra referred to the evidence tendered 
by his witnesses, 

Mr. S . C . Abel ( P . W . 1 ) , Assistant Registrar of this Court, was the officer 
in whose presence inspection of the above ballot papers took place . He has 
proved inspection reports Exs, V , VI, VII, VIII , IX and X . A perusai of these 
inspection reports would indicate that in Polling Station No. 1 Amethi Kohna , 
the election petitioner Sri S . N . Misra had secured 162 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 
only 11 votes. Similarly , in Baraun polung station the election petitioner 
secured 309 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 9 votes . Similarly , the corresponding 
Algures for Papihapur , Budhnaman and Sheikhpur - Restampur polling stations are 
158, 228 and 293 votes , respectively , for Sri S . N . Misra, and 11, 6 and 14 votes , 
respectively , for Sri Sri Krishna. Similarly , the figures for Bahora and Malikpur 
for the two candidates are 201 and 169 , respectively , for Sri S . N . Misra , and 7 
and 60 votes , respectively , for Sri Sri Krishna , 


P . W . 2 Sri D . K . Chaudhri, an official of this Court, is a formal witness . He 
has merely tendered on behalf of the Registrar, original Forms 16 and 20 of the 
above -mentioned polling stations and the corresponding Segments of the Parlia 
mentary Constituency. 

P . W . 3 Sri R . P . Singh , Deputy Collector, Fatehpur had functioned as Assistant 
Returning Oncer at the time of the election . Under the orders of this Court , 
the relevant election papers were brought by him and handed over to the Deputy 
Registrar of this Court . After seeing Form 16 (Ex . XXI) of Amethi Kõhna 
polling station , he has stated that the number of valid votes secured by Sri 
S . N . Misra and Sri Sri Krishna are recorded therein as 11 and 162, respectively , 
whereas according to the slip Ex . XIX , attached to the bundle of the relevant 
ballot papers it was the other way round , i. e ., the number of valld votes secured 
by Sri Misra was 162 and that by Sri Sri Krishna 11. The witness admitted 
that the mistake in Form 16 was due to the negligence of the Counting Supervisor . 
He added that it was not possible for him to check all the Forms 16 as there 
were so many counting tables. 

Similarly , in Form 16 of polling station Baraun ( Ex . XXIV ) Sri S , N , Migra 
is shown to have secured only 9 votes while Sri Sri Krishna is shown to have 
secured 309 votes . The witness admitted that this entry was also a mistake 
and it had been committed due to the negligence of the Counting Supervisor . 
According to the slips Ex . XXII and XXIII attached to the relevant bundle of 
ballot papers Sri S . N . Misra had secured 309 votes, while Sri Sri Krishna had 
secured 9 votes . In other words, the numbers had been inter - changed . 

This witness further stated that in the Form 16 pertaining to Papihapur 
"polling station ( Ex . XXVII ) Sri S . N . Misra is shown to have secured 158 
votes and Sri Sri Krishna 11 votes. This was the correct position and it tallied 
with the slip attached to the relevant bundle of ballot papers ( Ex . XXV ) . In 
Form 20 of Kamalganj Segment ( Ex . XXVIII ) which includes this polling station , 
however , Sri S . N . Misra was shown to have polled 11 votes , whereas Sri Sri 
Krishan was shown to have secured 158 votes . The witness admitted that the entry 
in Form 20 was wrong and it was due to a clerical mistake . 


Similarly , in Form 16 ( Ex . XXXI) of Budhnamau polling station , Sri S . N . Misra 
was shown to have secured only 6 votes , while Sri Sri Krishna was shown to 
have polled as many as 228 votes . Here again the entries appeared to have been 
inter - changed , because according to the relevant slips Exs. XXIX and XXX 
attached to the bundles of the respective ballot papers , Sri S . N . Misra had 
polled 228 votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 6 votes . The witness admitted that 
the same mistake was repeated in Form 20 , because this Form was prepared 
on the basis of the entries in Form 16 . 


In the same way , in Forin 16 of polling station Sheikhpur- Rustampur ( Ex . 
XXXIV ) Sri S . N . Migra was shown to have polled only 14 votes . while Sri Sri 
Krishna was shown to have polled 293 votes . The witness admitted that the 
above-mentioned figures were wrong and had been inter - changed , and the same 


SEC . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4935 


mistake had been repeated in Form 20 , because it was Alled in on the basis 
of the entries in Form 16 . The slips, attached to the relevant bundles of 
ballot papers ( Exs. XXXII and XXXIII ) showed that Sri S . N . Misra had secured 
293 votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 14 votes. 

A similar mistake had been committed in Form 16 ( Ex. XL ) pertaining 
to Bahora polling station . Therein Sri S . N . Misra and Sri Sri Krishna were shown 
to have secured 7 and 201 votes , respectively . This admittedly was a mistake , 
because in the slips (Exs. XXXVIII and XXXIX ) attached to the relevant bundles 
of ballot papers , Sri S . N . Mişra and Sri Sri Krishna were shown to have 
secured 201 and 7 votes, respectively . 

A similar mistake had been committed in Form 16 ( Ex . XLIII ) pertaining 
to Mallkpur polling station , wherein Sri S . N . Misra was shown to have secured 
only 60 valid votes, whereas Sri Sri Krishna was shown to have secured 169 
valid votes . The slips attached to the relevant bundles of ballot papers (Exs. XLI 
and XLII ) , however , showed that the real position was the other way round , 
namely , Sri S . N . Misra secured 169 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 60 votes . 

The witness was asked by a Court question to state what steps he took to 
ensure that all the Forms 16 were correctly Alled in , when mistakes in some 
Forms 16 came to his notice . His answer was that the members of the counting 
staff were again instructed to be more vigilant and careful in counting the ballot 
papers and making the relevant entries in Part II of Forms 18 . He added that 
errors of transposition (inter- change ) concerned only two candidates , namely , 
S . N . Misra and Sri Sri Krishna. The witness was specifically asked whether 
in view of the large number of mistakes, which came to his notice he deemed 
it necessary to tally the figures given in Part II of the remaining Forms 16 with 
the figures appearing in the slips attached to all the bundles of accepted ballot 
pape . His answer was that he did not deem it necessary to tally all the figures, 
because he thought that other mistakes , if any , must have been noticed by the 
counting agents of the candidates, who would have brought the same either to 
the notice of the Counting Supervisor, or to his (witness s ) notice . He further 
stated that no mistakes in Form 16 were brought to his notice to the best of 
his memory, by the counting agents of the candidates, although one objection 
was brought to his notice regarding rejected ballot papers . 

P . W . 4 Surendra Bahadur Singh , was the Assistant Returning Officer of 
Kannauj-67 Parliamentary Constituency . He admitted that in Form 20 ( Ex . 
XXVIII ) of Biduna Segment a mistake in totalling has occurred in the third 
page, i. e ., the grand total of votes secured by Sri S . N . Misra is 13 , 938 and not 
13, 038 as shown in that Form . 

P . W . 5 Sri R . M . Bhatnagar , had functioned as Returning Omcer of Kannauj 
67 Parliamentary Constituency at the relevant time. He stated that Form 21, 
in which the result of the election was declared , is prepared on the basis of the 
details given in Form 20 , Form 20 , in its turn , is prepared on the basis of Form 
16 , the last mentioned being prepared by the Counting Supervisors after actual 
counting of ballot papers. Shown Exs. XIX , XX and XXI the witness stated 
that although according to Form 18 (Ex . XXI) Sri S . N . Misra had secured only 
11 votes and Sri Sri Krishna as many as 162 votes , nevertheless according to 
the counting slips Exs. XIX and XX Şri Misra had secured 162 and Sri Sri 
Krishna only 11 votes . 

The witness scrutinised the relevant ballot papers in the Court Room and then 
stated that in Amethi Kohna Polling Station No . 1 Şri S . N . Misra secured 160 
votes and Sri Sri Krishna 11 votes. Two votes counted in favour of Sri Misra 
were liable to be rejected on account of their bearing double seal marks. 

Similarly , the scrutiny of the ballot papers of Polling Station Baraun revealed 
that Sri S . N . Misra secured 307 votes, while Sri Sri Krishna secured only 10 
votes. The entrļes made in Part II of Form 16 ( Exs. XXI and XXIV ) were 
incorrect . Two votes which had been counted in favour of Sri S . N . Misra were 
to be left out in the opinion of this witness , according to whom one of them 
should have been counted in favour of Sri Sri Krishna and the other rejected . 

Similarly , a scrutiny of the ballot papers of Papihapur polling station revealed 
that 2 ballot papers which had been counted in favour of Sri Nathu Singh 
respondent should have been counted in favour of Sri S . N . Misra, petitioner . 
The result was, Sri Misra secured 157 valid votes in this polling station and 
Sri Sri Krishna only 11 votes . The entries in Part II of Form 16 of this polling 
station (Ex . XXVII ) were , therefore , incorrect. After seeing Form 20 (Ex . 


4936 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II- - 


XXVIII) the witness stated that the entries appearing against the names of 
Sri S . N . Misra and Sri Sri Krishna had been inter - changed . In other words, 
the number of valld votes polled by Sri S . N . Misra should have been 156 and 
those polled by Sri Sri Krishna only 11 , and not the other way round as shown 
in that Form . 


A scrutiny of the ballot papers of Budhnamau polling station revealed that 
Sri S . N . Misra had secured 228 valid votes and Sri Sri Krishna only 6 votes, 
as indicated in the counting slip ( Ex . XXIX ) . In the relevant Form 16 ( Ex . 
XXXI) however, the entries had been inter- changed , i. e ., Sri Sri Krishna is shown . 
to have secured 228 votes and Sri Misra only 6 votes. 


After scrutinising the ballot papers of Shelkhpur -Rustampur pulling station , 
witness stated that Sri S . N . Misra had secured 290 Valld votes ; out o * 3 votes 
counted in favour of Sri Misra 2 should have been counted in favour of Srl Nathu 
Singh and one in favour of Dr. Lohia . There was no inistake in the counting 
slip in recording the valid votes secured by Sri Sri Krishna . In the relevant 
Form 16 ( Ex . XXXIV ) however , the number of votes recorded in the counting slip 
in favour of Sri S . N . Misra had been shown against the name of Sri Sri Krishna, 
and vice versa . In other words, there had been an inter - change. 

The position with regard to Polling Station Bahora as found by this witness 
after scrutiny -- was that 2 votes cast in favour of Sri Nathu Singh had been 
counted in favour of Sri S . N . Misra . Thus the total number of votes secured 
by Sri S . N . Misra was 199 , whereas Sri Sri Krishna had secured only 7 votes . 
In the relevant Form 16 ( EX . XL ) , however , only 7 votes were shown to have 
been secured by Sri S . N . Misra and 201 votes by Sri Sri Krishna, In other 
words, the figures had been inter - changed . 


The position with regard to Malikpur Polling Station - as found by this witness 
after scrutiny — was that Sri S . N . Misra had securcd 169 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 
60 votes (as entered in the relevant counting slip Ex , XLĪI) . In the relevant 
Form 16 (Ex . XLIII) , however , the figures were inter - changed , so that Sri Misra 
was shown therein to have secured only 60 votes and Sri Sri Krishna 169 votes. 


In answer to a Court question , this witness stated that the mistakes mentioned 
by him , while in the witness -box came to his notice , only during the course of 
his deposition in this Court. He admitted that he was not in a position to say 
whether such mistakes could have been committed in the case of the remaining 
polling stations or not. He further stated that the inter- change ( transposition ) of 
votes, referred to by him in so many cases , appeared to be deliberate on the part of 
the Supervisory concerned . He conccded that other mistakes mentioned by him , 
i. e ., counting of one or two ballot papers this way or that way , could have been 
due to the rush of work and the speed with which the counting was done. 

This concludes the evidence on the side of the election petitioner, 
Three witnesses were examined on behalf of the contesting respondent No. 2 . 

D . W . 1 Jaswant Singh Katiyar stated that during the disputed election he had 
worked as clection agent of Dr. R . M . Lohia , deceased respondent No . 1 . According 
to him , during the counting counting agents of the election petitioner and 
Dr. Lohia were present at every counting table . Counting agents of other 
candidates were present at some of the tables . At the table of the Assistant 
Returning Omicer , Sri S . N . Misra, election petitioner, and his counting agent were 
present. After the counting was over at each table , the ballot papers were taken 
by the counting supervisor concerned to the table of the Assisant Returning 
Officer where they were re- checked and re- counted in the presence of the various 
counting agents and thereafter results were noted in Form 16 . If any objection 
was raised by any counting agent, that objection was looked into and decided 
by the above -mentioned officer before Form 16 was Alled in Entries in Form 16 
were made either by the Assistant Returning Omcer himself at his table , or were 
got done at the Assistant Returning Officer s table in the hand of the counting 
supervisors. The result of counting for every polling station was announced by 
the Assistant Returning Omcer from his table , and also from the central 
announcing room , At the time entries were made in Form 16 , no objections 
were preferred either by Sri S . N . Misra or by his counting agents . No complaint 
was made that in respect of the above-mentioned polling stations , namely , 
Amethi Kohna, Baráun , Papihapur, Budhnapur , Bahora . Mallkpur and Sheikhpur 
Rustamour, the number of votes secured by Sri S . N . Misra and Sri Sri Krishna 
had been inter - changed in Forms 16 . This witness further stated that at the 


ULL 


S & C . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4937 
- - 
time of counting no slips were found attached to the bundles of accepted ballot 
pupers . The witness further stated that on 23rd February 1967, after the counting 
of all tho Segments was completed and it became known that Dr. Lohia was 
successful, an application for recount was made by Sri S . N . Misra , which was , 
however , rejected by the Returning Officer on the following day, and Dr. Lohia 
Was velarod clected . 

D . W . 2 Ram Narain is a cultivator of village Khanpur, and a former Up Pradhan 
and Pradhan of that place . riccoruing to him , he had worked for Sri Sri Krishna 
during the last General Elections. In Amethi Kohna , the population consisted of 
Kişans. Kachhis and Yadavş . The Yadav voters were giving out that they would 
vote for the Yadav candidate . As regards the Kachhi Kisans, some of them , on 
being persuaded , were prepared to vote for Sri Sri Krishna, while the rest wanted 
to vote for Sri Nathu Singh , Only the Brahmin voters allegedly supported Sri S . N . 
Misra . There was not a single Brahman voter in Madhopur, 

D . W . 3 Satish Chandra , a cultivator of Chandpur, Pargana Ahara , similarly 
stated that he had worked for Sri Sri Krishna in the Budhnamau area , during the 
last General Elections. According to him , there were only 2 or 3 Brahman houses 
in village Rampura , which had about 400 or 500 Yadav voters . It was only the 
Brahmans who supported the election petitioner. The Yadavs supported Sri Sri 
Krishna , and the Harijans supported Dr. Lohia . 

This is the entire evidence in this case . What does it show ? As pointed out 
earlier , it is manifest that serious mistakes were committed in filling up Forms 16 
0 - the above-mentioned Polling Stations. The mistake was that the number of votes 
secured by Sri S . N . Misra , election petitioner , and Sri Sri Krishna, respondent 
No. 3 , were inter - changed , with the result that Part II of Forms 16 did not correct 
ly represent the result of counting of the above -mentioed polling stations. As 
already indicated , Part II of Form 16 is filled in on the basis of the result of count 
ing of the bundles of accepted ballot papers , as shown in the slips attached to 
every such bundle . Form 20 , the final result sheet , is prepared on the basis of 
Form 16 , while Form 21, the return of election , is prepared on the basis of the 
entries in Form 20 . In view of the clear testimony adduced by the election peti 
tioner , vide the statements of P . W . 1 Srl S . C . Abel, Assistant Registrar , P . W . 3 
Sri R . P . Singh , Deputy Collector (then Assistant Returning Officer ) and P . W . 5 
Sri R . M . Bhatnagar, then Returning Officer , it is clearly established that in the 
case of the above-mentioned Polling Stations, in preparing the relevant Form 10, 
the total number of votes secured by Sri S . N . MIsra and Sri Sri Krishna were 
inter - changed . From the statement of Sri Surendra Bahadur Singh ( P . W . 4 ) , then 
Assistant Returning Officer , it would further appear that in Form 20 of Bidhuna 
Segment of Kannauj-67 Parliamentary Constituency ( Ex . XXVIII ) the grand total 
as entered in page 3 thereof should have been 13 ,838 votes secured by Sri S . N . 
Misra , whereas the figure stated therein is only 13 ,638 , i. e ., 200 less . It has to be 
borne in mind that Sri Bhatnagar ( P . W . 5 ) had the opportunity of scrutinising all 
the relevant ballot papers of the above -mentioned polling stations before he gøye 
his statement in this Court . In the face of this evidence , the statement of Sri J . S . 
Kotiyar ( D . W . 1 ) to the effect that no such mistakes were committed cannot, 
obviously , be accepted . 

Therefore , on Issue No . 4 ( c ) my finding is that from the evidence on the record 
it would appear that in respect of the above -mentioned polling stations, viz . Amethi 
Kohna , Barau , Papihapur, Budhnamau , Sheikhpur -Rustampur, Bahora and Malik 
pur, the election petitioner Srl S . N . Misra actually secured 1509 votes in all while 
Sri Sri Krishna , respondent No. 3 secured 118 votes in all but in the relevant Form 
16 , the figures were interchanged , with the result that Sri S . N . Misra was shown 
to have secured 1391 votes less than what he actually secured . Further , in Forin 
20 of Bidhuna Segment there was a totalling mistake, due to which Sri S . N . Misra 
was shown to have secured 200 votes less than what he had actually secured in 
that Segment, making a grand total of 1591 votes counted short . 
Issue No . 14 : 

The question then arises whether on the evidence mentioned above this election 
petition can succeed . It was vehemently urged by Sri K . L . Misra , Learned counsel 
for the election petitioner , that since his cllent has been able to show (vide the 
evidence discussed above ) that 1 , 591 valid votes cast in his favour were wrong 
fully left out of consideration , he should be given credit for the same, and if that 
is done, It would be seen that he had in fact received a majority of the valid votes 
cast at the election , and consequently he was entitled to a declaration to have been 
duly elected instead of Dr. R . M , Lohia , deceased respondent No. 1 . I was accord 
ingly requested to make such a declaration . 


4038 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 PART ]] — 


The learned counsel for the contesting respondent Sri R . Varma, on the other 
hand , yubmitted that the evidence produced in the case , by the election petitioner , 
has no bearing on the case pleaded by him in the election petition . My attention 
was invited to Para 13 of the election petition , wherein it was alleged : 
" ( 13 ) That a number of ballot papers which consisted of valid votes for the 

petitioner , were wrongly mixed up and counted for one or the other of 
the respondents . The details of these , together with approximation of 
the number in each case have been given in Schedule I attached to 

this petition ." 
In column 3 of Schedule I there appears the heading " Petitioner s votes wrongly 
counted for " , and then varlous figures and names have been given . Mr. Varma 
laid stress on the fact that there was no allegation in the election petition that 
Forms 16 and 20 had been incorrectly Alled in . In this connection he relied upon 
the provisions of Section 83 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act, whereby an election petition must 
contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies . 


Mr. Varma cited Messrs Trojan and Co . v . R . M . N .N . Nagappa Chhettiar ( A .I. R . 
1953 Suprenie Court, 235 ) and Siddik Mahomed Shah v . Mt. Saran and others 
( A . I. R . 1930 P . C ., 57) in support of his contention that the decision of the case 
cannot be based on grounds outside the pleadings of the parties and it is the case 
pleaded that has to be found . Without an amendment of the plaint - it was urged 
the Court was not entitled to grant the relief not asked for . He pointed out that 
the election petitioner has never applied for amendiment of his pleadings , and , 
therefore , his present contention should not be considered . Mr. Varma further 
argued that election tribunals have as much discretion as the civil court to amend 
the pleadings within the limits prescribed by the decisions of the Supreme Court . 
Rellance was placed in this connection on Bhim Şen v . Gopali and others ( 22 E .L . R ., 
288) . 


In the next place Mr. Varma submitted that the recount application made on 
23rd February 1967 by the election petitioner to the Returning Officer was rejected 
by the latter vide Ex, 1 on the ground that no case had been made out for a re 
count. Mr. Varma further pointed out that it was after inordinate delay that the 
election petitioner applied for inspection of the above 7 or 8 polling stations. The 
election petition was filed on 7th April 1967 and the Inspection application was 
made, as late as on 19th March 1968 . He further pointed out that the election 
petitioner has not examined himself , nor has he produced any of his counting 
agents or polling agents. In the circumstances , Mr. Varmia submitted that the 
evidence adduced by the election petitioner, should not be considered and the elec 
tion petition should be thrown out, for lack of evidence . In the alternative, he 
submitted that the evidence adduced by the election petitioner , even if held ad 
migzible , did not establish that he had , in fact, secured a majority of the valid 
votes cast at the election . He added that it mistakes of such a serious rature 
could be made in Forms 16 of the above - inentioned polling stations , there was no 
guarantee that similar mistakes were not committed in the case of the remaining 
hundreds of polling stations. In his submission , therefore , unless there was a 
complete re- count, a clear picture could not be obtained . 

Sri K . L . Misra in his rejoinder submitted that the figures given in Schedule I 
to the election petition were based upon the entries in the Form 16 concerned , and , 
therefore , it would not be correct to say that the pleadings in the election petition 
were not in conformity with the provisions of Section 83 of the Act . In the alter 
native, he submitted that even if it be assumed , for the sake of argument, that the 
pleadings were insufficient, nevertheless no prejudice has been caused to the other 
side, because parties knew what the case was . 

In this connection reliance was nlaced on Bhagwan Datta Shastri y . Ram Ratanji 
Gupta and others, (A . I R . 1960 S .C ., 200), wherein their Ivordshlps observed : -- 
“ There can be no doubt that the requirement of full particulars of corrupt 

practice in the election petition is of paramount importance, but where, 
notwithstanding the absence of particulars, the evidence is allowed to 
be given and taken , the question would not be one of absence of 
jurisdiction but as to whether there has been any material prejudice , 

occasioned by the absence of particulars." 
It was further contended that the expression " counted for" occurring in column 
3 of Schedule I to the election petition , could include the entire process of count 
ing , i. e ., up to the stage of declaration of the result. 

As regards the alleged delay in applying for inspection of the ballot papers of 
the above-noted polling stations, Sri K . L . Misra s argument was that there was no 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4939 


undue delay and the inspection application was submitted ag soon as possible . 
Accordingly , it was urged on behalf of the election petitioner that having succeeded 
in showing that in the above -mentioned polling stations, he had secured 1591 
more votes than shown in Forms 16 and 20 , he was entitled to a declaration that he, 
and not Dr. R . M . Lohia , had been duly elected to the Lok Sabha from the Kan 
nauj-67 Parliamentary Constitutency , by reason of the fact that he and not Dr. 
Lohia , actually , had received a majority of the vaiid votes . 

As regards the further contention raised by the learned counsel for the contest 
ing respondent that the evidence so far adduced by the election petitioner was In 
conclusive in nature , and the correct position could not be ascertained unless all 
the ballet papers cast at the election were again scrutinised and counted , Shri 
K . L . Misra s argument was that such a course was not only unnecessary but also 
would not be warranted in the absence of a valid recrimination petition . He point 
ed out that although Dr. Lohia had Aled a recreminatory petition , this Court held 
on 25th January , 1968 that the same had abated . Thus , in fact , there is no pend 
ing recriminatory petition . In the absence of a recriminatory petition it was so 
contended — the entries made in Forms 18 and 20 of the remaining polling stations 
should be presumed to be correct, vide Rule 56 ( 6 ) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 
1961, whereby : 
“ Every ballot paper , which is not rejected under this rule shall be counted 

as one valid vote . " 
Sri Misra further pointed out that according to the result declared by the Returning 
Officer on 24th February 1967, the election petitioner had polled 03, 106 valid votes , 
a3 against 93, 578 votes polled by Dr, Lohia . In other words, Dr, Lohja was 
declared to have won the election by a majority of only 472 votes . Since the 
evidence adduced by the election petitioner on Issue No. 2 ( C ) shows that 1591 
more votes should have been counted in his favour, it was urged that the election 
petitioner has fully discharged the onus which lay upon him to prove that he had 
in fact secured a majority of the valid votes cast in the election , vide Section 
101 ( a ) of the Act. 

In support of his argument Srl K . L . Misra cited Jabar Singh v . Genda Lal 
( A . I. R . 1984 Supreme Court , 1200 ) , wherein , after holding that the view taken 
by a Bench of this Court in Lakshmi Shankar Yadar V . Kunwar Sripal Singh 
(22 E .L . R ., 47) did not represent the correct scope of the enquiry under Sections 100 
and 101 of the Act , their Lordships indicated as under : - - 
" Scope of the enquiry in a case falling under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii ) is to 

determine whether any votes have been improperly cast in favour 
of the returned candidate, or any votes have been improperly refused 
or rejected in regard to any any other candidate . These are the 
only two matters which would be relevant in deciding whether the 
election of the returned candidate has been materially affected or not. 
At this enquiry , the onus is on the petitioner to show that by reason 
of the infirmities specified in Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii ) , the result of the 
returned " candidate s election has been materially affected , and that 
Incidentally helps to determine the scope of the enquiry . Therefore , 
It seems to us that in the case of a petition where the only claim 
made is that the election of the returned candidate is void , the scope 
of the enquiry is clearly limited by the requirement of Section 
100 ( 1 ) ( d ) itself. The enquiry is liinited not because the returned 
candidate has not recriminated under Section 97 ( 1 ) ; in fact, Section 
97 ( 1 ) has no application to the case falling under Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
( iii ) ; the scope of the enquiry is limited , for the simple reason , that 
what the clause requires to be considered is whether the election of 
the returned candidate has been materially affected and nothing 
else . If the result of the enquiry is in favour of the pentioner who 
challenges the election of the returned candidate, the Tribunal has 
to make a declaration to that effect, and that declaration brings to 

an end the proceedings in the election petitions. 
" There are , however , cases in which the election petition makes x double 

claim ; it claims that the election of the returned candidate is void , 
and also asks for a declaration that the petitioner hirisell or some 
other person has been duly elected . It is in regard to such & compo 
site case that Section 100 as well as Section 101 would apply , and it 
is in respect of the additional claim for a declaration that some other 
candidate has been duly elected that Section 97 cornes into play . 
Section 97 ( 1 ) thus allows the " returned candidate to recriminate and 
raise pleas in support of his case that the other person in whose favour 


4040 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART 1 


& declaration is claimed by the petition cannot be said to be validly 
elected and these would be pleas of attack and it would be open to 
the returned candidate to take these pleas, because when he recrimi. 
nates he really becomes a counter -petitioner , challenging the validity 
of the election of the alternative candidate . The result of section 97 ( 1 ) , 
therefore , is that in dealing with a composite election petition , the 
Tribunal enquiries into not only the case made out by the petitioner , 
but also the counter - claim made by the returned candidate . That 
being the nature of the preceedings contemplated by Section 97 ( 1 ) , it 
is not surprising that the returned candidate is required to make his 
recrimination and serve notice , in that behalf in the manner and 
within the time specified by Section 97 ( 1 ) proviso and Section 97 ( 2 ) . 
If the returned candidate does not recriminate as required by sec 
tion 97, then he cannot make any attack against the alternative claim 
made by the petition . In such a case an enquiry would be held under 
section 100 so far as the validity of the returned candidate s election 
is concerned , and if as a result of the said enquiry declaration is made 
that the election of the returned candidate is void , then the Tribunal 
will proceed to deal with the alternative claim , but in doing so , the re 
turned candidate will not be allowed to lead any evidence because he 
is precluded from missing any pleas against the validity of the claim 

of the alternative candidate . 
" 11 is true that Section 101 ( a ) requires the Tribunal to find that the peti 

tioner or such other candidate , for the declaration of whose election 
a prayer is made in the election petition has, in fact received a majo 
rity of the valid votes . It cannot be said that the Tribunal cannot 
make a finding that the alternative candidate has in fact received a 
majority of the valid votes unless all the votes cast at the election 
are scrutinised and counted . As a result of Rule 57, the Election 
Tribunal will have to assume that every ballot paper which had not 
been rejected under Rule 56 constituted one valid vote and it is on 
that basis that the finding will have to be made under section 101 ( a ) . 
Section 97 ( 1 ) , undoubtedly gives an opportunity to the returned candi 
date to dispute the validity of any of the votes cast in favour of the 
alternative candidate or to plead for the validity of any vote cast in 
his favour which has been rejected ; but if, by his failure to make 
l ecrimination within time as required by Section 97 , the returned 
candidate is precluded from raising any such plea, at the hearing of 
the election petition , there would be nothing wrong if the Tribunal 
proceeds to deal with the dispute under Section 101 ( a ) on the basis 
that the other votes counted by the returning officer word valid votes 
and that votes in favour of the returned candidate , if any , which were 

rejected, were invalid .” 
The learned counsel for the contesting respondent, while submitting that the 
above decision is not applicable to the facts of the present case, cited Nathu Ram 
Shikshak v . R . P . Dikshit ( 1965 A . L . J., 25 ) , wherein a Full Bench of this Court 
held as follows: 
" It is not correct that in an election petition based on the ground of Sec 

tion 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( iii) thc Tribunal has sue motu to consider all votes 
counted in favour of all candidates and all votes rejected and refus 
ed and that before deciding whether the result of the successful candi 
date s election was materially affected or not it must see that no valid 
vote was rejected and no void or prohibited vote was received and 
accepted . Rules 57 and 58 show that every ballot paper that is not 
rejected is presumed to be valid . It was on account of this presump 
tion that the Supreme Court held in Jabar Singh v . Genda Lal (A . I. R . 
1964 S . C ., 1200 at 1208 ) that Tribunal is not required , in a petition 
based on the ground of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( lil to scrutinize all the 
ballot papers . It does not follow that a Tribunal cannot scrutinize 
certain ballot papers , at the instance of the returned candidate if he 
has not filed a notice of recrimination . The presumption is only in 
respect of ballot papers which are not rejected and imply shifts the 
onus of proof, it is a rebuttable presumption and operates only if it is 
not rebutted . It can be rebutted by showing that certain ballot 
papers ought to have been rejected and were erroneously not reject 
ed ; as soon as this is shown , the presumption is rebutted and the bal 
lot papers have to be rejected . A returned candidate , against when 
a petition has been Aled , has the inherent right of rebutting the case 


Sec . 3(ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/ KARTIKA 24, 1891 4941 


prima Facie made out against him ; no statutory provision conferring 
this right is required at all. It is his inherent right, because without 
his having an opportunity to exercise it, he cannot efficiently defend 
the petition , The right of defending the petition includes the right of 
rebuttal of a prima facie case made out by the pertitioner. If it is 
essential ! for him , for the purpose of rebutting the prima facie case 
of the petitioner , to show that certain ballot papers ought to have been 
rejected by the Returning Officer and were , therefore, not valid , he 
has a right to do so and that right has not been taken away by Rules 
26 and 57, or any other provision of the Act or the Rules, Section 97 
does not deal with this right at all. Its exercise is not dependent 
upon any notice of recrimination . Surely it cannot be said that a 
notice of recrimination is essential when a petitioner claims the seat for 
himself or any other candidate , whereas it would not be essential in 
the absence of such a claim . If in a petition in which no such clalm is 
made the returned candidate has the right of proving that there was 
improper reception etc . In respect of votes other than those which are 
the subject matter of the petition without having to Ale a 
notice of recrimination (which would not be requlrecl at 
all because there is no claim for the seat ) the fact that in another 
petition such a claim is made should not deprive the returried candi 
date of that petition of the right. The right of rebuttal and the man 
ner in which it can be exercised do not at all depend upon whether 
such a claim is made in the petition or not and whatever right of 
rebuttal exists when no such claim is made exists even when such a 
claim is made. " 


" When void votes are received or when votes are improperly received , re 

fused or rejected and the result is that a person who did not legally 
receive a majority of the valid votes was declared duly elected , his 
election can be questioned under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ill) . The ground 
for questioning the election is the improper reception etc . of votes 
materially affecting the result of the returned candidate s election . 
The petitioner has to prove two facts, ( 1 ) that the reception etc , was 
improper , and ( 2 ) that thereby the result of the returned candidate s 
clection was materially affected . The petitioner would fail if either 
fact remain sunproved . If the petitioner prima facie proves both , 
the returned candidate may disprove either or both , and on his dis 
proving either or both the petitioner would fail. If he is unable to 
disprove the first fact , he can disprove the other fact, only by showing 
that there was improper reception etc . In respect of other votes and 
that consequently the effect of the improper reception eton alleged by 
the petitioner was nullified or reversed by the effect of the improper 
reception etc . of other votes. The failure on the part of the returned 
candidate to disprove the frst fact , does not deprive him of the right 
to disprove the other fact. Just as the petitioner has to prove both 
the facts , so also the returned candidate has the right to disprove one 
of them without being able to disprove the other . The only manner 
in which he can disprove the other fact is by proving that there was 
improper reception etc . other than that proved by the petitioner and 
that it had the reverse or nullifying effect . To debar the returned 
candidate from showing other improper reception etc. would amount 
to debarring him from disproving the other fact, i. e ., denying him 
the right of rebuttal. It, therefore , cannot be said that such a peti 
tion is confined only to an inquiry into the particular voto mentioned 
in the petition and that an inquiry into votes is always a recrimination 
proceeding governed by Section 97 . That the result of the returned 
candidate s election was naterially affected by the improper recep 
tion , etc ., of votes is a perfectly good ground for a petition , which 
votes were improperly received , etc . is a matter of evidence to prove 
the ground . The ground is that yotes were Improperly received etc . 
and is proved by showing that particular votes were improperly receiv 
ed etc . The votes selected by the petitioner do not exhalist the ground 
for the simple reason that the result of the election depends not only 
upon the votes which are the subject matter of the petition , but also 
upon other votes . Even if it be said that the ground is the improper 
reception etc , of particular votes, in considering the effect of it upon 
the result of the election , the Tribunal must consider improper re 
ception etc . of other votes in respect of which evidence has been given 
by the returned candidate. The petitioner naturally selects Anly 


4942 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART 11 — 


- 


- 


- 


those votes, the improper reception etc . of which has the effect of 
111creasing the number of votes of the returned candidate or decreas 
ing the number of votes of a defeated candidate , but the returned 
candidate s right of rebuttal is not confined to the votes proved to 

have been improperly received etc ." 
I have considered the matter . In the present case, as already indicated , the 
returned candidate , Dr. R . M . Lohia , died during the pendency of this petition . 
He had filed a recriminatory petition which , as held by this Court, abated by 
reason of his death , After the death of Dr. Lohia , it is only Sri Nathu Singh , 
respondent No. 2 , who has been opposing this election petition to some extent. 
The evidence adduced by the election petitioner on Issue No . 2 ( c ), as already 
discussed above, shows that in the case of polling Stations Amethi Kohna, Baraun , 
Papihapur, Budhnamau , Sheikhpur -Rustampur, Bahera and Mallkpur, while Alling 
up Forms 16 and 20 , the number of votes secured by Sri S . N . Misra has been 
noter against Sri Sri Krishna , respondent No . 3 , and vice versa . The Returning 
Officer Sri R . M . Bhatnagar ( P . W . 5 ) frankly admitted that the above inter - chango 
appeared to be deliberate on the part of the Supervisors concerned . In this state 
of affairs any presumption that Forms 16 and 20 of the remaining hundreds of 
polling stations were correctly Alled in , would be, to a large extent, rebutted . 
The relief sought by the petitioner is that the election of respondent No . 1 Dr. 
R . M . Lohia to the Lok Sabha, from Kannauj- 87 Parliamentary Constituency be 
set aside, and he ( the election petitioner ) bę duly declared to have been validly 
elected thereto by a majority of valid yotęs. The total number of votes cast at 
the election , as already indicated , came to 2 , 94 , 695 ( vide the answer given by 
the Returning Officer Sri R . M . Bhatnagar to a Court question ) . All that the 
election petitioner has so far been able to show is that at the seven polling stations , 
named above, mistakes were committed in filling Form 16 , as a result of which 
the votes secured by him were shown as having been secured by respondent No. 3 
Sri Sri Krishna, and vice versa , with the result that his total was affected to the 
extent of 1591 votes ( including the totalling mistake in Form 20 Bidhuna Seg 
ment) . In my opinion , therefore , the correct overall position cannot be ascertained 
unless and until all the ballot papers are again scrutinized and counted . It is a 
case primarily of the Court , in the circumstances , wanting to ascertain the correct 
position in the interest of justice . It is noteworthy that in para 27 of the election 
petition the election petitioner has made a grievance of the fact that his applica 
tion for recount was rejected by the Returning Officer on 24th February , 1967. 

In Swami Rameshwara Nand v . Shri Madho Ram and another , Civil Apeal 
No. 1039 of 1968 (of the Supreme Court ) , their Lordships passed the following 
order on 12th September , 1968 : 
( A certified copy of that order has been shown to me). 
“ As a result of the report of the tellers, it is quite clear that the counting 

has been very inaccurate , Numerous instances have been brought to 
our notice which clearly show that votes of one side have been counted 
as votes of the other side. Whether it is for one party or the other , 
it makes no difference . It is quite clearly demonstrated that the off 
cers who counted these votes did not do their duty either honestly or 
carefully . In these circumstances, we think that a general re - count 

is necessary in the present case .” 
Sri K . L . Misra , for the election petitioner , submitted that in the above cage, 
there was a recriminatory petition . It, however, appears that a general recount 
was ordered by their Lordships on the ground that numerous instances of mis 
counting had been noted and that it was demonstrated that the officers, who had 
counted the votes did not do their duty carefully or honestly . The position in the 
present case is very similar. Accordingly , a general re- count in the present case 
also seems necessary in the interests of justice , so that the correct position could 
be ascertained . 

Consequently , the Registrar of this Court is directed to make suitable arrange , 
ments for all the votes cast in the disputed election to be re- scrutinized and re 
counted, in accordance with the rules and regulations, under the supervision of 
a senior officer of this Court - Additional Registrar or Joint Registrar - - and in the 
presence of the contesting parties . A report should be submitted to me in due 
course -- to enable me to proceed further - showing the number of valid votes se 
cured by each candidate. The matter should be expedited . 

The cost of the re - count will be borne by the election petitioner . 
Dt, 31-1-1989 

( Sd .) T. R . 
{ No. 82 ! 14 of 1967 / UP / 69 (ALLD ). ] 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4943 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 17th October 1969 
S . O . 4543, - - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Narayan 
Baskey R / o village Chatanpani, P . O . Dhalbhumgarh , District Singhbhum a 
contesting candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Ghatsila 
Assembly Constituency , hus failed to lodge an account of his clection expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Narayan Baskey , to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this order , 

[No. BR -LA / 283 / 69 ( 27 ) . ] 
New Delhi, the 21st October 1969 
S . O . 4544 . - -Whereas the Election Commission lg satisfied that Shri Rajnarain 
Rai, R / o village and P . O . Purana Panapur, District Patna ( Bihar) a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Danapur Assembly 
Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required 
by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or cxplanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declarcs the said Shri Rajnarain Rai, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as and for being a member of cither House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period 
of three years from the date of this order, 

No, BR -LA / 207 /69 ( 28 ) .] 
New Delhi, the 23rd October 1969 
S . O . 4546 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Satyadeo 
Thakur, R / O village Alamnagar Tola Sonbarsa , P . O . Bhagipur Narthua , District 
Saharsa ( Bihar ) a contesting candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative 
Assembly from Alamnagar Assembly Constituency , has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act , 
1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whreas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commssion is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justiflecation for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Satyadeo Thakur, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No, BR -LA / 117 / 09 ( 29 ) . ] 
S . O . 4546 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfed that Shri Bishwar 
Nath Mahto , R / o Village Rajakuan , P . O . Blharsharif , District Patna ( Bihar ) 
a contesting candidate for election to the Bhar Legislative Assembly from 
Asthawan Assembly Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election 
expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the 
Rules made thereunder; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Bishwar Nath Mahto , to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of 
three years from the date of this order. 

[ No . BR -LA / 196 / 69 (30).J 


4944 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part II - 


= 


- 


- 


- 


S . O . 4547. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shrl Hari Narain 
Roy, R / o village Manpur, P . O . Katasa , Distirct Saran ( Bihar ) , a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Marhaura Assembly 
Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder; 

2 . And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the sald Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Hari Narain Roy , to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House cf Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 

[ No. BR -LA / 41 / 69 ( 331 ) .1 


S . O . 4548. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Lawlin 
Tiwari, R / O village Banni, P . O . Nugura , District Saran ( Bihar ) , a contesting 
candidate for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Jalalpur Assembly 
Constituency has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation fo rthe failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Lawlin Tiwari, to be disqualified for 
being chosen as an and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order , 

[No. BR -LA / 42 / 69 ( 32 ) . ] 


S . O . 4649 , — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mohan 
Prasad Yadav , R / O village Narpa , P . O . Sughrine, District Darbhanga ( Bihar ) a 
contesting candidate for election to the Bihur Legislative Assembly from Hasanpur 
Assembly Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his clection expenses 
within the time and in the manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failurc; 

3 . Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Mohan Prasad Yadav, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 

[No. BR -LA / 103 /69 ( 33 ) . ] 


S . O , 4550. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Deocharan 
Paswan , R / O village Jaitia , P . O . Fatwa, District Patna ( Bihar ) a contesting candi 
date for election to the Bihar Legislative Assembly from Fatwa Assembly Con 
stituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied that 
he has no good reason or justification for such failure , 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Deocharan Paswan , to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

(No. BR -LA / 194 /69 / (34 ).] 

By Order , 
A . N . SEN , Secy . 


Sec . 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4945 


भारत निर्वाचन प्रायोग 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली, 17 अक्टूबर , 1969 
एल० प्रो० 4551. - - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान 
सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए घाटीला निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री नारायण 
बासके निवासी ग्राम -घटानी पानी, डा० धलभूमग , जिला सिहभूम , बिहार , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व 
अधिनियम 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपनेनिर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल 
करने में असफल रहे हैं । 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के 
लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि 
उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित नहीं है ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त 
श्री नारायण बासके को संसद् के किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा विधान 
परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस प्रादेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए 
निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० बिहार वि० स०/ 283/ 69( 27 )] 
नई दिल्ली , 21 अक्टूबर , 1969 
एस० प्रो० 4552. - - यतः ,निर्वावन प्रायोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान 
सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए 207 दानापुर निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से सूचना लड़ने वाले उम्मीदावार श्री 
राजनारायण राय, निवासी ग्राम तथा डा०- पुराना पानापुर जिला - पटना ( बिहार ) , लोक 
प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों 
का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है, तथा निर्वाचन मायोग का यह समाधान हो गया है 
कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त 
श्री राजनारायण राय को संसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
सभा अथवा विधाद परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष 
की कालावधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० बिहार वि० स०/ 207/ 69 ( 28) ] 
__ नई दिल्ली , 23 अक्टूबर, 1969 
एस० प्रो० 45 53. --- यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान 
सभा के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए मालमनगर निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री सत्य 
देव ठाकुर निवासी ग्राम पालमनगर, दोला-सोनबरसा, डा० भागीपुर नथंपा, जिला - सहरसा 
( बिहार ) लोक प्रतिनिधत्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने 
व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं । 


4946 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [ PART II . 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता के 
लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि 
उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा 
उक्त श्री सत्यदेव ठाकुर को संसद के दोनों सदनों में किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की 
कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० बिहार वि० स०/ 117/ 69 ( 29) ] 


एस० प्रो0 4554. - - यतः, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान सभा 
के लिए निर्वाचन के लिये अस्थायीनिर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री विश्वनाथ महतो 
निवासी ग्राम - राजाकुत्रां पो०-बिहारशरीफ , जिला पटना (बिहार ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल 
करने में असफल रहे हैं । 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है , तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो 
गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतदद्वारा उक्त 
श्री विश्वनाथ महतो को संसद के दोनो सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की 
कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[सं०-विहार-वि०स० / 196 / 69 ( 30 ) ] 


एस० प्रो० 45 5 5. - - यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान सभा 
के लिए निर्वाचन के लिए मदौरानिर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री हरि नारायण राय 
निवासी ग्राम-मानपुर , पो०- कटसा , जिला - सारन ( बिहार ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा 
तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं : 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिये कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया 
है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्द्वारा उक्त 
श्री हरि नारायण राय को संसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 
अथवा विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए इस आदेश को तारीख से तीन वर्ष की 
कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं०-बिहार-वि० स० / 41/ 69/ ( 31 )] 


Sec. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4947 


एस० प्रो० 4556. -- यत :, निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान सभा के 
लिये निर्वाचन के लिये जमालपुर निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री बललीन 
तिवारी निवासी ग्राम बन्नी , पो० नगरा , जिला सारण ( बिहार ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में 
असफल रहे है । 


और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के 
लिये कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि 
उसके पास इस असफलता के लिये कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त 
श्री लवलीन तिवारी को संसद् के दोनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा अथवा 
विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिये इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की कालावधि 
के लिये निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० -बिहार- वि०स०/ 42/ 69( 32 )] 


एस० प्रो० 4557 . - - यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान सभा 
के लिये निर्वाचन के लिये हसनपुर निर्वाचन- क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री मोहन प्रसाद 
यादव निवासी ग्राम नरपा , पो० सुघराइन , जिला दरभंगा (बिहार ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 
1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित समय के अन्दर तथा रीति से अपने निर्वाचन 
ध्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


और, यतः उक्त उम्मीदवार ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के 
लिये कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है । तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है 
कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिये कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10- क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त 
श्री मोहन प्रसाद यादव को संसद् के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
सभा अथवा विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिये इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष 
की कालावधि के लिये निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० बिहार -वि०स०/ 103/ 69 ( 33 )] 


एस० प्रो० 4558.- - यतः,निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि बिहार विधान सभा के 
लिये निर्वाचन के लिये फतुहा निर्वाचन - क्षेत्र से चुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री देवचरण पासवान 
निवासी ग्राम जैतिया , डा० फतुहा, जिला पटना (बिहार ) , लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 
तथा तदधीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में 
असफल रह है ; 

और, यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार , ने, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिये जाने पर भी , अपनी इस असफलता के 
लिये कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है, तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि 
उसके पास इस असफलता के लिये कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद्वारा उक्त 
श्री देवचरण पासवान को संसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान सभा 


494 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II-- - 


अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिये इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष की 
कालावधि के लिये निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[so - fare - fa 190 /194/69 ( 34 )] 

rau 


ए० एन० सेन सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1969 
S . O . 4559 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act , 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Government 
hereby specifies the following offences as the offences which are to be investi 
gated by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely :- - 
( a ) offences punishable under sections 5 , 6 , 9 and 10 of the Assam Opium 

Prohibition Act, 1947, 
( b ) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clause ( a ) and any 
other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts . 

[No. 228 / 3 /69-AVD (II).] 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1969 
S . O . 4560 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
5 of the Delhi Special Police Eştablishment Act , 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central 
Government hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of the members of the 
Delhi Special Police Establishinent to the State of Assam for the investigation 
of any of the offences specified below , namely : 
( a ) offences punishable under scctions 5 , 6 , 9 and 10 of the Assam Opium 

Prohibition Act, 1947 . 
( b ) attempts, abctments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offence mentioned in clause ( a ) and any 
other offences committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts , 

[No. 228 / 3 / 69 - AVD ( II ). 1 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 20th September 1969 
S . O . 4561. — In the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs No. S . O . 2800, dated the 9th July 1969 published in the Gazette 
of India , Part II — Section 3 – sub - section ( ii) , dated 19th July , 1969 at page 2951, 
in the second line from bottom for " section " rcad " sections" . 

[NO, 228 / 7 /69-AVD ( II) .] 
B , C . VANJANI, Under Secy. 


गृह मंत्रालय 

af feript , 24 49ere , 1969 
yao gto 4562.- forint fauo TH ATTYAT ufufruh , 1946 ( 1946 
का 2 5वां ) , की धारा 3बारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकारनिम्नलिखित अपराधों 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 4949 


को उन अपराधों में सम्मिलित करती है, जिनमें दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापना को अन्वेषण करना 
है नामतः - - 


( क ) असम अफीम निषेध अधिनियम , 1947 की धाराओं - 5 , 6, 9 एवं 10 के अन्तर्गत 

दण्डनीय अपराध । 


( ख ) खंड ( क ) में उल्लिखित या किसी अन्य प्रकार के एक या एक से अधिक ऐसे अपराध, 

जो समान परिस्थितियों से उत्त्पन्न समान कार्य के दौरान में किए गए अपराध के 
संबंध या सिलसिले में किए गए प्रयत्न , दिए गए बहकाव तथा रचे गये षड्यंत्र । 

[सं० 228/ 3/ 69- प्र०सं०प्र० ( 2) ] 


मावेश 


नई दिल्ली , 24 अक्टूबर 1969 
एस०प्रो० 4563. -- दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापना अधिनियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 
25वां ) की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
निम्नलिखित अपराधों में अन्वेषण के लिए दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापना के कर्मचारियों के अधिकार 
तथा कार्य- क्षेत्र को असम राज्य तक बढ़ाती है : -- 

( क ) असम अफीम निषेध अधिनियम , 1947 की धाराओं 5, 6, 9 एवं 10 के अन्तर्गत 

दण्डनीय अपराध । . 
( ख ) खंड ( क ) में उल्लिखित या किसी अन्य प्रकार के एक या एक से अधिक ऐसे अपराध 

जो समान परिस्थितियों से उत्पन्न समान कार्य के दौरान में किए गए अपराध के 
संबंध या सिलसिले में किए गए प्रयत्न , दिए गए बहकाव तथा रचे गये षडयंत्र । 

[ संख्या 228/ 3/69–प्र० स० प्र० - 2] 

भोजराज सी० बनजानी , 

प्रवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 
S . O . 4564, — In exercise of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 2 of the Dadra and 
Nagar Havel1 ( Civil Courts and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Regulation, 1983 
( 8 of 1963 ) , the Central Government, after consultation with the High Court at . 
Bombay , appoints with effect from the 6th day of October , 1969 , Shri B. N . Dongre, 
Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division ) and Judicial Magistrate , 1st class , Nasik , as 
Civil Judg. for the purposes of the said Regulation . 

[ No. 3 / 23 / 68- GP. ] 
R . C . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 1 नवम्बर , 1969 
सा प्रा० 4565.-- - दादर ध नागर हवेली (सिविल न्यायालय और विविध उपबंधक 
विनियम , 1963 ( 1963 का 8वां ) , के खंड 2 के उपखंड ( 2 ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार 


.4950 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891: Part I - 


बंबई उच्च न्यायालय से परामर्श करने के पश्चात , 7 अक्टूबर, 1969 से श्री बी० एन० डोंगरे , संयुक्त 
सिविल जज ( जनियर डिवीजन ) और जडिसियल मजिस्ट्रेट , प्रथम श्रेणी , मासिक को उक्त विनियम के 
प्रयोजन हेतु सिविल जज के रूप में नियुक्त करती है । 

[sO 3/23/68 –ufto fto ] 

पार० सी० गुप्ता , 
अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 


$ . O . 4566 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 ( 6 of 1890 ) , and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs , 
No. F . 16 / 6 / 64- Judl. II, dated the 19th January , 1905 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the Joint Secretary ( Internal Finance ) to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance , ex - officio to be the Treasurer of Charitable 
Endowments for India with effect from the date he takes over . 


[ No. F . 1 / 6 / 69- Judl.].] 
B . SHUKLA , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
S . O . 4567. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . 1 / 32 / 61- ( IX ) - F . III, dated the 15th 
March , 1962, the President, with the consent of the Government of Rajasthan . 
hereby entrusts also to the Inspector -General of Police , Rajasthan , the District 
Superintendents of Police , Rajasthan , the Superintendent of Police , CID , SB 
(Security ) , Jaipur , and the Additional Superintendents of Police , CID ( IB ) , Zone, 
Ajmer, Udaipur and Kota under the Government of Rajasthan within their res 
pective jurisdictions, the functions of the Central Government in making orders 
of the nature specified in clauses ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) and ( cc ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 3 of the Foreigners Act, 1946 ( 31 of 1946 ) subject to the following con 
ditions, namely : 
( a ) that the functions so entrusted shall be exercised in respect of nationals 

of Pakistan ; 
( b ) that in the exercise of such functions the said Inspector -General of 

Police , Superintendents of Police and Additional Superintendents of 
Police shall comply with such general or special directions as the 
Government of Rajasthan or the Central Government may from time 

to time issue ; and 
( c ) that notwithstanding this entrustment, the Central Government may 

itself exercise any of the said functions should it deem fit to do so in 
any case . 

(No. 1 /27 /69- F . III. ] 


T . C . A . SRINIVASAVARADAN , Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 
S . O . 4568. - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act 1948 , the Central Governinent hereby 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4951 


authorises Shri Wazir Singh , Steno - typist in the High Commission of India , 
Blantyre to perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 22nd 
October 1969 , until further orders . 

[No. F . T. 4330 / 7 / 69. ] 
P . C . BHATTACHARJEE , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Banking ) 
New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 


S . O . 4569 . - Statement of the Affairs of the Rexrve Bank of India as on the 31st October , 1969. 


BANKING DEPARTIENT 


LLABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capita ! Paid op 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5,00 ,00 , 000 


Notes . 
Rupee Coin 
Small Coin 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


43,64 ,62 ,000 

7,43,000 


. 


Reserve Fund 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


150,00,00, 000 


6 , 54 , 000 


4952THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891(PARTII- 


National Agricalcaru 

fperation Food 


Credit (Long 


Term 


155 , 00 , 00 ,000 


Bils Purchased and Discounted : - 

(w ) Internal : 
(b) Esterra 

. 
(:) Government Treuery Bills 


193.44 ,54 ,000 


Nxml Agriculturst Credit ( Stabiliation ) Fond 


35 , 000,000 


Balances Held Abrosd 


154 .24, 85 ,000 
1 24 ,24,52,000 


lavestmenu 


National Industrial Credit (Long Tema Operations) 
Ford 

. . . 


75 ,00 ,00 000 


Lotna md Adtec toi 


(1) Central Gorence 
ÇÜ ) State Govedments 


94 ,59 .89, 000 


Deposits : 

(a ) Government 


) Central Goremmen 


. 


(0 ) Suite Gorementi 


. 


. 


. 


(6) Banks 


Loans and Advances to i 
Scheduled Commerciu Bankst . 

33 ,53775,000 
( Stute Co -operativo Bentatt . . . 252,49,57,000 
( ) Other . . . . . . 

3,4343 ,000 
52,74, 85,030 Louns, Adrmc and Investment from National Agrical 

tunl Credit (Long Term Operationa ) Fund : 
6 , 14 ,24,000 (A ) Loons md Advance to : 

State Governmcod . . . . . 31,53, 79 , 000 
( ) State Co-operative Banks , . . 16 ,21,05, 000 

(i ) Central Land Mortgage Banka , 
(d ) Investment in Centrl Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 9 ,74,61,000 

Lorns md Adyace from National Agricultor Credit 
186 ,01,08 ,000 (Stabilisation ) Fund : 
6 ,81,41,000 Lous md Adreces to State Co - operative Boob , . 6 ,59, 56 ,00 

64 ,43 ,000 Loum , Adyw .ces Lod Lorettem from Natiood Industria ) 
25, 24 , 000 Credit (Long Term Operation ) Fundi 

(a ) Lots und Adrances to the Development Bank . 6 ,26,71,000 
246 ,43,28, 000 ) Interment in bordoldebentura inced by the 

Derelopment Back . 
46,23,41, 000 Other Asset . . . . . . . . 33,82, 78,000 

48 ,69, 73,000 
1013,97,64 ,000 

Rapoes . 1013,97,64,000 


Scheduled Commercial Banta . . 

Scheduled State Co -operative Banka , 
( 10 ) Non - Scheduled State Co- opertine Band 
(10 ) Other Banks . . . . . 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,18914953 


(« ) Others 

Bills Payable . 
Other Liabilities 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. . 
. . 
Rupees 


. 
. 
. 


* Incada Cash , Fixed Deposits md Short-term Securitiek 
* *Bucho ting investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Ton Operations ) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Operations ) Fund 
@ Exchu Hng Logos md Adnances from the National Agricultoral Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund but including temporary overdrafts to 

State Governments. 
Lochoda Ro. 12,0370,000 tymco to scheduled commercial banka stinst astuce bill under sectica 17 (4 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
tte cixding Low bod Advoces from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Terms Operations) Fuod sod the National Agricultan Credit (Stabili 

to ) Pud. 
Dated the sthe day of November , 1969 . 


AnA 


oint porsuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the 31st day of October , 1969 


ISYUB DEPARTMENT 


J .LABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Ns. 


182 ,53 , 11,000 


Notes held in theBanking Depart 

mant 
Notes in circulados . . 
Total Nues issued . , 


43,64 ,62, 000 
3458, 22 ,96, 000 


Gold Coio and Bution : 
(a ) Held in India . . . 
(3) Held outside India . 
Foreign Securities . . 

TOTAL 


3501,87, 58, 000 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


261:42 ,00,000 


TOTAL 


443, 95 , 11,000 


75, 70 , 13 , 000 
2982, 22 , 34 , 000 


Rupee Coin , 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

Commercial paper 
Total Assets 


4954THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891(PART 


TotalLiabilities 


. 


. 


. 


3501, 87 , 58 , 000 


3501, 87 , 58 ,000 


Dated the 5th day of Novemher , 1969. 


LK - JHA , 
Governor 


No. F . 3 (3).BC /69 .] 
K YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 


- 


Sec . 3 (ü )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4955 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIREOT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1969 
S . O . 4570 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Schedule appended to its Notification No. 98 ( F . No . 50 / 9 / 88 
ITJ) dated 8th October, 1968 , namely : 

In the said schedule Bhavnagar Range , Bhavnagar , existing under column I , 
shall be deleted and the following circles shown against Bhavnagar Range, Bhav 
nagar , under column 2 thereof, shall be added against Rajkot Range, Rajkot, under 
column 2 of the said Schedule : : 

4 . Bhavnagar Circle . 
5 . Amreli Circle . 
6 . Junagadh Circle , 

7 . Porbandar Circle . 
This notification takes effect from 5th September , 1969. 


Explanatory Note 
The amendment has become necessary on account of transfer of one post of 
AAC from Gujarat Commissioner s charge to Bombay (Central) Charge. 

( The above note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

(No. 119 ( F . No. 50 / 40 / 69 -ITJ.) ] 
New Delhi, the 2nd September 1969 
$ . 0 . 4571. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf and in supersession of all previous notifications in this regard , the 
Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Appellate Assistant Com 
missioner of Income- tax specified in Column I of the Schedule below shall perform 
their functions in respect of all persons and incomes assessed to Income- tax or 
supertax in the Income- tax circles , wards and districts specified in the correspond 
ing entry in column 2 thereof: 

SCHEDULE 


Range 


Income-tax Circles , Wards & Districts . 


Central Range - I, Bombay All cascs under the jurisdiction of Income - tax Officers , Sections 

I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX , X , XVIII , XIX , and XX 

(Central) Bombay . 
CentralRange- II , Bombay All cases under the jurisdiction of Income- tax Officers , Sections 

VIII , X1, XII , XIII , XIV , XV, XVI, XVII , XXI,XXII,XXIII , 

(Central ) Bombay & Central Circle , Ahmedabed . 
Central Range, Nagpur . . All cases under the jurisdiction of Irccmc- Ex Officers , Centra 

Circles I, II, III, IV , and V , Nagpur. 


Where an Income- tax Circle, Ward or District or part thereof stands trans 
ferred by this notification from one Range to another Range , appeals arising out 
of assessments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof 
and pending immediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate 
Assistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income- tax circle , Ward or 
District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notiAcation takes 
effect, be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner 
of the Range to whom the said circle , Ward or District or part thereof is trans 
terred . 
This notification shall take effect from the 5th September , 1969 . 

[No . 117 (F . No. 50 / 39 /89-ITJ.) ] 


This notification shall take effect from 


12th September, 1989 . 


4956 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1969 
8 . 0 . 4572 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 122 
of the Income- tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in 
that behall , the Central Board of Direct Taxes , hereby makes the following 
emendmerts in the Schedule appended to its Notifcation No. 97 ( F , No. 50 / 12 / 68 
ITJ) dated the 7th October, 1968 , as amended from time to time. 

In the said Schedule the entries in col. (2 ) against A -Range , B -Range , C -Range , 
D -Range , E - Range , F -Range , H -Range , J -Range, K -Range, L -Range, M -Range , 
N -Range, P -Range, and Q -Range, New Delhi shall be substituted by the 
following : 


Ranges 

Incomc-tax Circles , Vards and Districts . 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
І 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
A - Range, New Delhi . I. Companies Circles III , VII, X , XIII , XIV , XV, XVI, XIX , & 

XX , New Delhi. 

2 . Special Circles III , IV , V , X & X , New Delhi, 
B - Range, New Delhi, 1. District III, Ward A , A ( Addl.), A ( Addl. I), 0 , 0 ( Addl.), New 

Delhi, 
2 . District III , ( 19 ), ( 20 ), (21), (22) & (23), New Delhi. 
3 . District VII Ward A , A ( I ) & ( B ) , New Delhi. 
4 . District VII ( 1), ( 2 ), ( 3 ) & (4 ), New Delhi. 
5 . Refund Circle , New Delhi. 
6 . B - I, B - I ( I), Districts, New Delhi. 

7 . C - I, C - I ( I ), C - II and C - III Diatrics, New Delhi. 
C -Range, New Delhi. . I. Central Circles I, II , III, VI, VII and XI, New Delhi. 

2 . Special Circles and Addl. Special Circles , New Delhi, 

3 . Special Investigation Circles A , B and C , New Delhi. 
D - Range , New Delhi 1. District VII Wards, C , D , E, E (Addl.), F ., F ( Addl.), A ( II), 

A ( IV ) & D ( I), New Delhi. 
2 . ACIV & IV ( 1 ) Districts , New Delhi. 
3 . Income-tax - cum -Wealth Circles IV & XI, New Delhi. 
4 . DistrictVIWards A ( I) , A ( II) , C ( I ), C ( I) ( Addl.), New Delhi. 
5 . District X (I), ( 2), (3), (4), (5), ( 6), (7), (8), (9), (10), & ( 11), 

New Delhi, 

6 . District VI ( 11), (12 ), ( 13 ), ( 14 ) and (15), New Delhi. 
E -Range , New Delhi, 1. District VIII Wards A , A (Addl.), B , B ( Addl. ), B (Add ), 1) , 

B (Addl. II), B (Addl. III ) , A ( I) & A ( II) , Now Ichi. 
2 . A - I, A - I ( I), A - II , A - III & Addl. A - 111,Districts ,New Delhi. 
3 . Income- tax - cum - Wealth - tax Circles, VIII , New Delhi. 
4 . District III Ward M ( I) , New Delhi. 
5 . District III: ( 33),New Delhi, 
7 . District VIII(1), (2), (?),(4),(5), (6), (7),(8),(9), ( 10 ):(11):(17): 

( 13), ( 14), ( 15 ),( 16 ),( 17), ( 18) and ( 19), New Delhi. 
F -Range, New Delhi. , 1. Companies Circles I, IX , XXI & XXII , New Delhi. 

2 . Special Circles, I, II, VI, VII, & VIII, New D . 
H - Range, New Delhi. . 1. B -XVII , XVII ( 1), B -XVII ( 2), B -XVII (3 ), B - XVII(4 ) Dista:c1$ , 

New Delhi, 
2 . District VI-A , A (Addl.), F (Acol.), C , Clicdl.). I & F .Now 

Delhi, 
3. District VI( 1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9) & ( 10 ), Now 

Delhi. 
4 . District I, Ward A & A ( I) , New Delhi. 
5 . District IX , Ward A , New Delhi. 
6 . District I ( 1) & (2 ), New Delhi. 
7 . District IX ( 1 ), New Delhi, 
8 . District IV , Wards C & D , New Delhi. 
9 . District IV (4), (5) & (6 ), New Delhi. 


Sec . 3 ( II ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4057 


I 
J — Range, New Delhi. 


1. District II,Wards A , B , C , D , E , F , A (I), C (I), C (I) ( Addl.) & 

C ( II) , New Delhi. 
2 . B - XÍV , B -XIV ( I) & B - XIV ( II) , Districts , New Delhi. 
3 . District II ( I) , ( 2), (3) , (4 ), (5 ), ( 6 ), ( 7), (8 ), (9 ), ( 10 ), ( 11) & ( I 

New Delhi, 


K - Range, New Delhi 


. 


I. District V , Wards A , A ( Addl.) , B , B (Addl.), C , D , E , F & G , 

New Delhi. 
2. District V , (I), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8 ), (9),( 10), (11), (12), 

( 13) , ( 14 ) & ( 15 ), New Delhi. 
3 . B -XV , B - XVI), B -XV ( 2 ) , XVI, B - XVI( I ), FXVI( 2 ). B -XVIII , 

V - XVIII ( I) and Addl. B - XVIII Districts, New Delhi. 
4 . Income- tax - cum - Wealih -tax Circle III, New Delhi. 
5 . District. IV Wards A & B , New Delhi. 
6 . District IV ( 1), (2 ), ( 3 ), New Delhi. 


1 - Range, New Delhi. 


. 


1. District II1, Ward A ( I), C (I), E (I), G ( I), I (I), and K (I) , New 

Delhi. 
2 . District IV Wards A (I), B ( I), C ( I), C ( II ), New Delhi. 
3 . Special Asscasinent Circles , f , II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, VIII , IX 

& X New Delhi. 
4. SpecialSurvey Circle 1, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII , IX , & New 

Delhi. 
5 . District III (24 ), ( 25 ), ( 26), (27), (28), (29), (30), (31) & (32), 

New Delhi. 
6 . District IV (7), (8), (9), (10 ), (11), New Delhi. 


M – Range, New Delhi. . I. Companies Circles , V, VI, XI,XII, New Delhi, 


N - Range, New Delhi. . 1. District V , Wards A ( I), B ( I), C (I), F ( 1), F ( I) (Addl.), F (11) & ” 

F ( III), New Delhi. 
2 . District V ( 16 ), ( 17 ) , ( 18 ), ( 19 ), & (20 ), New Delhi. 
3 . B - XII, B -XIII), B -XIII, D -XIII( I), Districts New Delhi. 
4 . Income-tex - cum - Wçalth tax Circles IX & X , Now Lelhi. 


P - Range, New Delhi. 


. 1. Central Circles IV , V , VIII, IX , X , XII, XIII & XIV , New 

Delhi, 


Q - Range, New Delhi. . I. Companies Circles II, IV , VIII, XVII , XVIII, New Delhi. 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of reorganization of the 
jurisdiction of the I. T . Os. and in order to reallocate the work amongst the various 
A . A . Cs. 

( The above note does not form part of the Notification but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 120 / F . No . 50 / 43 / 89-ITJ.] 
New Delhi, the 10th September 1969 
S . O . 4573, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act 1981 (43 of 1961) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf the Central Board of Direct Taxes, hereby makes the following amend 
ments in the Schedue appended to its Notification No. 57 ( F . No. 50 / 38 / 69 -ITJ ) , 
dated the 27th May , 1969 , namely : 

In the said Schedule against D -Range and S -Range Bombay under column 2 
the following shall be substituted : 

D -Range, Bombay Evacuee Circle II and Company Circle IV ( I) to IV ( 13 ) . 
S - Range , Bombay Market Ward , X -Ward , Com . Cir . IV ( 14 ) to IV ( 16 ) , 

Com . Cir . III ( 13 ) to III ( 15 ) and Com , Cir . V . 
This notification shall take effect from 12th September , 1989 . 


4958 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (Pari II 


Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of abolition of Company 
Circles IV (14), IV (15) and IV (16 ) . 

( This does not form part of the notification , but is intended to be merely 
clarifcatory .) 

[ No . 121 ( F . No. 50 / 38 / 69- ITJ. ) 

Y . SINGH , Under Secy . 


केंद्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर मोर्ड 

प्रायकर 

नई दिल्ली , 1 सितम्बर 1969 
एस०प्रो० 4574. - आय कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43) की धारा 122 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा अपनी अधिसूचना संख्या 98 ( फा० सं० 50 / 
9/ 68 - आई०टी०जे० ) तारीख 8 - 10 - 1968 के साथ संलग्न अनुसूची में निम्नलिखित संशोधन 
करता है, अर्थात् : - - 

उक्त अनुसूची में स्तम्भ 1 के नीचेविद्यमान भावनगर रेंज , भावनगर काट दिया जाएगा और 
भावनगर रेंज, भावनगर के सामने उसके स्तम्भ 2 के नीचे दशित निम्नलिखित सकिल उक्त अनुसूची 
के स्तम्भ 2 के नीचे राजकोट रेंज, राजकोट के सामने जोड़ दिए जाएंगे : 

4 भावनगर सकिल । 
5 अमरेली सफिल । 
6 जूनागढ़ सकिल । 

7 पोरबंदसर सकिल । 
यह अधिसूचना 5 सितम्बर. 1969 से प्रवृत्त हो जाएगी । 

[ संख्या 119 ( फा०सं० 50/ 40 /69 -- आई०टी०जे० ) ] 

नई दिल्ली, 2 सितम्बर, 1969 
एस० प्रो० 4575.-- - आय कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए तथा इस विषय की सभी पूर्व अधिसूचनाओं को अधिक्रान्त करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष 
कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा निदेश देता है कि नीचे की अनसूची के स्तम्भ 1 में विनिर्दिष्ट रेंजों के 
सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) उन सभी व्यक्तियों के और उस आय के संबंध में अपने कृत्यों का पालन 
करेंगे जो उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 2 की तत्स्थनी प्रविष्टि में विनिर्दिष्ट आयकर सकिलों, वार्डों या जिलों 
में प्रायकर या अधिकर के लिए निर्धारित हुए हुई हैं । 

अनुसूची 

आयकर, सकिल , वार्ड और जिले 


. 


केन्द्रीय रेंज - 1 , 
मुंबई 


सैक्शन - 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 

18, 19, और 20, ( केन्द्रीय ) मुंबई के 
आयकर अधिकारियों की अधिकारिता के 
अधीन के सभी मामले । 


SEC. 3( H) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4950 


प्रारकर, सकिल, वार्ड पर जिले 


केन्द्रीय रेंज - 2, मुंबई 


. 


. सैक्शन 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21 , 

22, 23, ( केन्द्रीय ) मुंबई और केन्द्रीय सकिल 
अहमदाबाद के प्रायकर अधिकारियों की 

अधिकारिता के अधीन के सभी मामले । 
. केन्द्रीय सकिल 1, 2, 3, 4, और 5 नागपुर 

के प्रायकर अधिकारियों की अधिकारिता के 
अधीन के सभी मामले । 


केन्द्रीय रेंज , नागपुर 


जहां इस अधिसूचना द्वारा कोई प्राय कर सर्किल, वार्ड या जिला या उनका कोई भाग एक रेंज 
से दूसरे रेंज को अन्तरित हो गया हो वहां उस प्राय कर सकिल, वार्ड या जिले या उनके किसी भाग 
में किए गए निर्धारणों के विरुद्ध की गई वह अपीलें , जो इस अधिसूचना की तारीख के ठीक पहले से उस 
रेंज के सहायक प्रायुक्त ( अपील ) के समक्ष लम्बित हों , जिससे वह प्राय कर सकिल , वार्ड या जिला या 
उनका कोई भाग अन्तरित कर दिया गया है, तो इस अधिसूचना के प्रवृत्त होने की तारीख से उस रेंज 
के , जिसको उक्त सकिल , वार्ड या जिला या उनका कोई भाग अंतरित कर दिया गया है, 
सहायक आयुक्त ( अपील ) को अंतरित कर दी जाएगी और उनके संबंध में कार्यवाही उक्त सहायक आयुक्त 
( अपील ) द्वारा ही की जाएगी । 
यह अधिसूचना 5 सितम्बर, 1969 प्रवृत्त हो ज येगी । 

[संख्या 117 ( फा० संका 50/ 39/ 69- आई०टी० जै० )] 


नई दिल्ली , 6 सितम्बर, 1969 
एस०प्रो0 4576.- - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 122 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा समय-समय पर यथा संशोधित अपनी अधिसूचना 
संख्या 97 ( फा० संख्या 50/ 12/ 68-प्राई० टी० जे० ) तारीख 7 अक्टूबर, 1968 के साथ संलग्न 
मनुसूची में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करता है, अर्थात् : 

उक्त अनुसूची के क -रेंज, ख -रेंज, ग -रेंज, घ -रेंज, ए - रेंज, च-रेंज, ज- ., ये-रेड - ज, ट 
रेंज , इ - रेंज , ढ -रेंज , त - रेंज और थ -रेंज , नई दिल्ली के सामने स्तभ ( 2 ) की प्रविष्टिया के स्थान 
पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित की जाएंगी : 


प्रायकर, सकिल , वार्ड और जिले 


नई दिल्ली । 


1 कम्पनी सफिल 3, 7, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 

19, और 20, नई दिल्ली । 


4960 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II - - 


2 विशष सकिल 3, 4, 5, 9 और 10, 

नई दिल्ली । 


ख - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


1 जिला 3, वार्ड क , क ( प्रति० ), क ( प्रति 
___ 1 ) , ण, ण ( अति० ) , नई दिल्ली । 
2 जिला 3 ( 19 ) , ( 20) , ( 21 ), ( 22 ) 

और ( 23) , नई दिल्ली । 
3 जिला 7 वार्ड क, क ( 1 ) और ख नई 

दिल्ली । 
4 जिला 7 ( 1 ), ( 2) , ( 3 ), और ( 4 ) 

नई दिल्ली । 
5 प्रतिदाय सकिल , नई दिल्ली । 
6 ख - 1, ख - 1 ( 1 ), जिले नई दिल्ली । 
7 ग - 1, ग - 1 ( 1 ) ग - 2 और ग - 3 जिले, 

नई दिल्ली । 


" 


ग -रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


1 केन्द्रीय सकिल 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, और 11, नई 

दिल्ली । 
2 विशेष सकिल और अतिरिक्त विशेष 
__ सकिल, नई दिल्ली । 
3 विशष अन्वेषण सकिल क , ख और ग , 

नई दिल्ली । 


प -रेंज, नई दिल्ली 


. 


1 जिला 8 वार्ड - ग , घ , ङ , ( प्रति० ) घ , ङ , 

घ ( अति० ), क ( 3 ), क ( 4 ) और घ ( 1 ) , 

नई दिल्ली । 
2 क - 4 और 4 ( 1 ) जिले , नई दिल्ली । 
3 प्राय कर सह धन कर सर्किल 4 और 11 , 

नई दिल्ली । 
4 जिला 6 वार्ड क ( 1 ), क ( 2 ), ग ( 1 ), 

ग ( 1 ) अति० ), नई दिल्ली । 
5 जिला 10 ( 1 ), ( 2) , ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ) , 
( 6 ), ( 7 ) , ( 8 ), ( 91), ( 10 ) और 

( 11), नई दिल्ली । 
6 जिला 6 ( 11 ), ( 12), ( 13), ( 14 ), 

और ( 15 ), नई दिल्ली । 


Sec. 3 (li )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4901 


उ. - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


. 


1 जिला 8 वार्ड क , क ( अति० ) ख , ख ( प्रति० ) , 

ख ( प्रति० - 1 ), ख ( अति . 2 ) , ख 
( अति . 3 ), क ( 1 ) और क ( 2 ), नई 
दिल्ली । 


2 क - 1, क - 1 ( 1 ) , क - 2, क - 3 और 

अति० क - 3, जिले , नई दिल्ली । 
3 प्राय कर सह धन कर सर्किल , 8, नई दिल्ली । 
4 जिला 3 वार्ड ड ( 1 ) , नई दिल्ली । 
5 जिला 3 वार्ड ( 33 ), नई दिल्ली । 
6 जिला 8 ( 1) , ( 2) , ( 3 ), ( 4 ), ( 5 ) , 

( 6 ), ( 7) , ( 8) , ( 9 ) , ( 10 ), ( 11 ) , 
( 12), ( 13 ), ( 14 ), ( 15 ), ( 16 ), 
( 17), ( 18), और ( 19 ), नई दिल्ली ।. 


च - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


. 


1 कम्पनी सकिल , 1, 9 , 21 और 22, नई 

दिल्ली । 
2 विशेष सकिल 1, 2, 6 , 7, और 8, नई 
दिल्ली । 


ज - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


1 ख - 17, 17 ( 1.) , ख - 17 ( 2 ) , ख - 17 

( 3), ख- 17( 4) जिले , नई दिल्ली । 
2 जिले 6 क , क ( अति० ) , ख , स ( अति० ) 
___ ग, ग ( प्रति० ), घ और ङ, नई दिल्ली । 
3 जिला 6( 1), ( 2), ( 3) , ( 4 ), ( 5 ) , 

( 6 ) , ( 7) , ( 8 ) , ( 9 ) और ( 10 ) , 
नई दिल्ली । 
4 जिला 1, वार्ड क और क ( 1 ), नई दिल्ली । 
5 जिला 9 , वार्ड - क , नई दिल्ली । 
6 जिला 1 ( 1 ) और ( 2 ) , नई दिल्ली । 
7 जिला 9 ( 1 ), नई दिल्ली । 
8 जिला 4, घाई ग और घ , नई दिल्ली । 
9 जिला 4 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) और ( 6 ), नई दिल्ली । 


श - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


. 


. 


. 


1 जिला 2, वार्ड क , ख, ग, घ , ङ, च , क ( 1 ) , 

ग ( 1), ग( 1 ) ( प्रति० ) और ग( 2), 
नई दिल्ली । 


106 THB QAZHTTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Part I 


. 


2 ख - 14, ख - 14 ( 1 ) और ख - 14( 2) ,. 

जिले , नई दिल्ली । 
3 जिला 2, ( ) ( 2), ( 3) , ( 4) , ( 5) 
( 6), ( 7) , ( 8) , (७ ), ( 10 ), ( 11 ), 
और ( 12 ), नई दिल्ली । 


ट --- रेंज, नई दिल्ली 


. 


. 


. 1 जिला 5, वार्ड क, क ( अति० ) ख, ख ( प्रति० 

ग , ष, उ०, च और छ, नई दिल्ली । 
2 जिला 5, ( 1), ( 2), ( 3 ), ( 4), ( 5) , . 

( 6) , ( 7), ( 8), ( 9 ) , ( 10 ), ( 11 ), 
( 12) , ( 13) , ( 14 ) और ( 15 ), 

नई दिल्ली । 
3 ख - 15, ख -15( 1 ), ख - 15 ( 2), 16 , 

ख - 16 ( 1 ) ख - 16 ( 2 ) , ख - 8 , 
ख - 18( 1 ) और ( अति . ) ख - 18, 
जिले नई दिल्ली । 
4 प्राय कर सहधन कर सकिल 3, नई दिल्ली । 
5 जिला 4 - वार्ड क और ख , नई दिल्ली । 
6 जिला 4 ( 1 ) , ( 2) , ( 3 ),नई दिल्ली । 


ठ - - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


1 जिला 3, वार्ड क ( 1 ), ग ( 1 ) 30 ( 1 ), छः 

( 1 ), झ ( 1 ) और ट ( 1 ), नई, दिल्ली । 
2 जिला 4, वार्ड क ( 1 ) , ख ( 1 ) ग ( 1 ) ,. 
___ ग ( 2) , नई दिल्ली । 
3 विशेष निर्धारण सकिल 1 , 2, 3, 4, 5 . 
___ 6, 7 , 8, 9 , 10, नई दिल्ली । 
4 विशेष सर्वेक्षण सर्किल 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,. 
___ 7, 8, 9 , नई दिल्ली । 
5 जिला 3 ( 24 ), ( 25 ), ( 26 ), ( 27 ) , 

( 28 ), ( 29 ) , ( 30 ) , ( 31 ), ( 32 ). . 

नई दिल्ली । 
6 जिला 4( 7), ( 8), ( 9), ( 10), ( 11 ), 

नई दिल्ली । 


हु - - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


. 


. 


. 


1 कम्पनी सर्किल 5, 6, 11, 12, मई 
दिल्ली । 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 4963 


H 


ढ - -रेंज, नई दिल्ली 


. 


. 


. 1 जिला 5 वार्ड क ( 1 ), ख ( 1 ), ग ( 1) , 

च ( 1 ), च ( 1) ( प्रति० ), च ( 2 ) और 

च ( 3 ) , नई दिल्ली । 
2 जिला 5 ( 16) , ( 17) , ( 18) , ( 19 ) 

और ( 20 ) , नई दिल्ली । 
3 ख - 12, ख - 12 ( 1 ) , ख - 13, ख - 13 ( 1 ) , 

जिले , नई दिल्ली । 
4 प्राय कर सह धन कर सकिल 9 और 10 , 

नई दिल्ली । 


त - -रेंज, नई दिल्ली 


. 


1 केन्द्रीय सकिल 4 , 5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13,. 

और 14, नई दिल्ली । 


य - - रेंज , नई दिल्ली 


. 


1 कम्पनी सकिल 2, 4, 8, 17, 18, नई 

दिल्ली । 


यह अधिसूचना 10सितम्बर, 1869 से प्रवृत्त होगी । 

[संख्या 120 ( फा० संख्या 50/ 43 / 69- आई० टी० जे० )] 


नई दिल्ली, 10 सितम्बर, 1989 
एस० प्रो० 4577. - पाय कर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43) की धारा 122 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों और इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड एतद्वारा अपनी अधिसूचना संख्या 57 ( एफ० संख्या 50/ 
38/ 69 - आई० टी० जे० ) तारीख 27 मई, 1969 के साथ संलग्न अनुसूची में निम्नलिखित 
संशोधन करता है, अर्थात् : 

उक्त अनुसूची में स्तम्भ 2 के नीचे डी० रेंज और एस० रेंज मुंबई के सामने निम्नलिखित 
प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा : 
डी -रेंज , मुंबई . . . निष्क्रान्त सकिल 2 और कम्पनी सर्किल 4 ( 1 ) 

से 4 ( 13 ) तक । 
एस-रेंज, मुंबई . . . बाजार वाई, एक्स वार्ड, वाणिज्य वार्ड 4 ( 14 ) 

से 4 ( 16 ) तक , वाणिज्य वार्ड 3 ( 13) से 

__ 3 ( 15 ) तक और वाणिज्य वार्ड 5 । 
यह अधिसूचना 12 सितम्बर, 1969 से प्रवृत्त हो जाएगी । 
[ संख्या 121 ( फाइल संख्या 50 / 38 / 69 प्राई ० टी० जे० )] 

वाई सिंह, अवर सचिय । 


4964 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (Part - 


INCOME-TAX 
New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 


$ . 0 . 4878 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 126 of the Income 
tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1981 ) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following amendments to the Schedule annexed to its Notification No . 1 ( F . 
No . 55 / 233 / 63 -IT ) dated the 18th May, 1964 : 


I. In the said Schedule Serial No. 42 ( F ) ( 1) should be renumbered as 42 ( F ) and 
the existing entry in Column 2 shall be substituted by the following entry :- - 
All gazetted and Non -gazetted employees of the Central Government belong 

ing to Departments other than Income-tax , Customs and Central 
Excise , who are posted in West Bengal and are under the Audit Con 
trol of A . G ., Central, West Bengal, whose annual salary or pensions 
during the previous year exceeded the maximum amount not charge 
able to income tax under the law for the time being in force or being 
less than that amount has for some reason been subjected to deduc 

tion of tax at source . 
II. In the said Schedule Serial Nos. 42 ( F ) ( ii) , (ii) and (iv ) and the entries 
thereagainst shall be deleted . 


III. In the said Schedule after item G , the following item shall be added : 


(3 ) 


H . (i) All Gazetted and Non - Income tax Inspecting Appellate Commissioдeг 

gazetted employees of Officer , D Assistant Com - Assistant Com - of Income 
the Central Govt. be- Ward , Central missioner of missioner of tax , West 
longing to Income-tax , Salaries Circle , Income- tax Income- tex Bengal - I , 
Customs and Central Calcutta . who has been who has been Cacutta . 
Excise Departments , 

appointed to invested with 
who are posted in West 

perform the powers to hear 
Bengal and are under 

functions of appeals against 
the Audit Control of 

an Inspecting the decision of 
A .G , Central, West 

Asstt. Com - the Income-tax 
Bengal, whose annual 

missioner of Officer referred 
Salary or pensions dur 

Income tax in to in Column 3 . 
ing the previous year 

respect of Cen 
exceeded the maximum 

tral Salaries 
Amount not chargeable 

Circle , Calcutta . 
to incometax under the 
law for the time being in 
force or beingisthen 
that amount has for 
somereason been sub 
jected to deduction of 
taxat source . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


( it ) All Gazetted Officers of 

the Education Deptt , 
of the Govt. of West 
Bengal. 


Yon 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


(lii) Al Gazetted and Non 

gazetted employece of 
the Govt . of West 
Bengal receiving their 
pay and allowances 
from the District Trca 
gurieg or Sub - Treasu 
ries of 24 - Parganas , 
Howrahand Jalpaiguri 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4965 


(4 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - 


( iv ) All Gov .. pension : rs un - Income- tax Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 

der the audit control of Officer, D Assistant Assistant of Income 
th : A G ., Wugt Bungal Ward Central Commissioner Commissioner tgx West 
whyje surnames begin Salaries Circle , of Income- of Income- Bengal- I , 
with any of the alpha- Calcutta . tax who hay tax who has Calcutta , 
beticoi letters A to L 

been appointed been invested 
(both inclusive ) -whose 

to perform the with powers 
annual salary or pen 

functions of an to hear appeals 
sions during the pre 

Inspecting against the 
vious vcar exceeded the 

Asstt. Com - decision of the 
maximum amount not 

missioner of Incomc- tax 
chargeable to incom : 

Inicom 2 -tax in Officer referred 
tax underithe law for 

respect of to in Column 3 . 
the timebeing in force 

Central Salaries 
or being less than that 

Circle , Calcutta , 
amount has for some 
reason been subjected 
to deduction of taxat 
source . 


[No. 3 (No. F . 55 / 383 /69 -IT ( AI).) 

L . N . GUPTA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING , WORKS, HOUSING AND 

URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
(Department of Health ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
S . O . 4579 , - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India In the late 
Ministry of Health No. 16 - 19 / 63-MI(MPT) , dated the 4th June, 1964 , the Central 
Government has directed that the Medical qualifcatlon , M . D . granted by the 
Stanford University , California , U . S . A . shall be recognised medical qualifcation 
for the purposes of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 

And whereas Dr. John Robert Berry who possesses the said qualification is for 
the time being attached to the American Peace Corps, Bombay Regional Office, 
Bombay for the purposes of charitable work . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies - - 

(1) a period for two years from the date of issue of this crder , or 
( 11) the period during which Dr . John Robert Berry is attached to the said 

American Peace Corps , Bombay Regional Office , Bombay , 
whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical practice by the aforesaid 
doctor shall be limited . 

INO. F . 19 - 38 / 69-MPT.) 
RC MURTHI, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 
S . O . 4580 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government after consulta 
tion with Central Board of Film Censors hereby appoints Smt. Kamala Tilak as a 


4966 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II - 


member of the Advisory Panel of Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay with 
immediate effect upto 31st December , 1969 . 

(No. 11 / 12 / 89-F ( C ).] 
K . K . KHAN Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND SUPPLY 
(Omce of the Joint Chlef Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2nd July 1969 
S . O . 4581, - M / s . Thio - Pharma, 26 - c , Industrial Estate , Falna Rajasthan were 
granted licence No. P / SS / 1610703 / C /XX / 25 /CD / 25 / 26 dated 30th March , 1968 
for Rs, 21 ,701 for the import of Drugs and Medicines as per list attached with 
the said licence. They have applied for issue of duplicate copy of the said licence 
for both customs as well as exchange control purposes on the ground that both 
the copies of the said licence have been lost /misplaced . 


2 . The applicant has filed an affidavit in support of their contention as requir 
ed under para 302 read with appendix 8 of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and 
Procedure, 1969. I am satisfied that the original custom as well as exchange 
control copies of the said licence have been lost /misplaced . 


3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under section 9 (CC ) , Import 
( Control) Order , 1955 dated 7th December , 1955 , as amended I order the cancella 
tion of original custom as well as exchange control copies of licence No. P /SS / 
16110703/ C7XX / 25 /CD / 25 / 26 , dated 30th March , 1968 . 


4 . The applicant is now being issued duplicate coples of both customs as well 
ag exchange control of the said licence in accordance with the provision of para 
302 or IT . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure, 1969. 

[No. F . T - 5 /Raj/ AM .68 / AU .HRH /CLA ] 

RAM MURTI SHARMA, 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th October 1969 
S . O . 4582 . — M / 8 . India Capaciters Pvt. Ltd ., Calcutta - 19 were granted licence 
No. 2162424 dated the 22nd March , 1968 for import of Insulated Tissu Paper & 
Chlorinated Diphenyl valued at Rs. 2 ,00 , 000. They have requested for the issue 
of duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the licence on the ground that the original 
Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been lost by them . It has been further 
reported by the licensee that the licence was lost after utilising Rs. 1, 22 ,000 . The 
licence has been registered with Collector of Customs, Calcutta . 


2 . In support of their contention the applicant have Aled an affidavit . The 
undersigned is satisfied that the original Exchange Control Copy of the licence 
No . P / RM / 2162424 / R / IA / 28 / C / H / 25 - 28 dated the 22nd March , 1968 has been 
lost and directs that a duplicate Exchange Control Copy of the said licence 
should be issued to them . The original Exchange Control Copy of the licence 
is cancelled . 

[No. SWG . 15 /67 -68 / R . M .6 . ] 

G . S . SHARMA, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exporta. 


" SBC. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4967 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 
8 . 0 . 4583 . — Chief Engineer Maharashtra State Electricity Board , Bombay 
were granted licence No. G / AU / 1034058 / S /UK / 26 / CH /26 dated the 22nd Decem 
ber, 1987 for Rs. 2, 65, 75 ,560 for import of Boilers & accessorles from U . K , The 
same has been lost /misplaced and he has requested to issue duplicate copy of 
the licence (both customs and exchange ) . It has been reported that the licence 
was lost after utilisation of amount to the extent of Rs. 94 , 94 ,518 and the licence 
was registered with Calcutta Customs, 

In support of the contention the applicant has Aled an affidavit. The Under 
signed is satisfied that the original licence No . G / AU / 1034058 / S /UK / 26 / CH / 26 
dated the 22nd December, 1967 (both copies ) has been lost /misplaced and directs 
that duplicate of the said licence should be issued to him . The original licence 
has been cancelled and the duplicate copy thereof is being issued separately . 

[No . SG / 283 /67.68 /PLS/B .] 

H , R . MOHSINI, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 
for Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 


MINISTRP OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT, INTERNAL TRADE AND 

COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 
8 . 0 . 4584 / IDRA / 6 / 5 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries ( Deyelopment and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) read with 
Rules 2 , 4 and 5 of the Development Councils ( Procedural ) Rules , 1952 and in 
continuation of the order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Indus 
trial Development, Internal Trade and Company Affairs (Department of Indus 
trial Development) No. S . O , 3769 / IDRA / 6 / 5 dated the 20th August, 1969, the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Narendre Nath Sen , President, Mathe 
matical Instruments Office Employees Union , Raja Subodh Mullick Road . 
Calcutte - 32 to be a member of the Development Council for Instruments Industry . 

[ No . LEI( A ) -3 ( 5) / 66 .] 
D . R . SUNDARAM , Jt. Secy. 


प्रौद्योगिक विकास , प्रान्तरिक व्यापार तथा समवाय -कार्य मंत्रालय 

(alatform fapie f # 17 ) 

प्रादेश 

facent, 31 44965, 1969 
V ATO 4585 / arfo To Hito Ço / 6 / 5. - am fate a faf477 ) FATH , 
1951 ( 1951 91 65 ) # 787776 ITI TEF vifichi FTTTTT FTà ac , faraqua 
(# 70 fara ) 244 , 1952fATH , 2 , 4 F 5 ETETT Tarra 77 tulfitu 
विकास , पान्तरिक व्यापार तथा समवाय -कार्य मंत्रालय ( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) के आदेश 
V Ho3770/ TE 5109TT . TO 6 / 5 fania 20 967, 1969 TTTT 

T T , ar 


4968 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 (PART II 


सरकार एतदद्वारा श्री नरेन्द्र नाथ सेन , अध्यक्ष , मैथमैटिकल इंस्ट्रमेंट्स , कार्यालय कर्मचारी संघ , 
{ TOT gala A F TIC , 4 * 4 ETT 32, FIT TA FUT 17 farate ofr Fr Hacen farger * Tento 

[si greto 97% (T)- 3( 5)/66] 

STOATTO * * , 

सयुक्त सचिव । 


(Dopartment of Industrial Devolopment) 

Indian Standards Institution , 

New Delhi, the 29th October 1969 
5 . 0 .4586 . - In pursuance of sub -regulation (1 ) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Institu 
tion (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution bereby notifies 
that the Indian Standards , particulars of which aro mentioned in the Schedule given hercafter , 
have been concelled . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. No. and Title of the Indian Standard 
No. 

Cancelled 


No. and Date of Gazette Notification in 

which Establishment of the Indian Stan 
dards was Notificd 


1 


I IS : 668 - 1963 Specification for serge , ordinary S . O . 280 dated 13 January 1964 published in 
(revised ) 

the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , 

Sub - section (ii ) dated 25 January 1964 . 
2 IS : 669 - 1963 Specification for serge , drat 

Inixture (revised ) 


Do . 


3 


4 


IS : 670 - 1963 Specification for serge, worsted , S . O . 415 dated 22 January 1964 published 
dyed (superior) (revised ) 

in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 
3 , Sub -section ( ii ) dated 1 February 

1964 . 
IS : 671 - 1963 Specification for serge , battle 

dress (drab mixture ) (revised ) 
IS : 672 - 1963 Specification for serge, white , 
lining (Taoised ) 

Do. 


Do . 


5 


6 IS 1532- 1960 Specification for serge , blue , S . O . 1632 dated 16 June 1960 published 
worsted 

in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 

3 , Sub -section (it ) dated 2 July 1960 . 
7 IS : 1533 - 1960 Specification for serge, drab 

Do. 
mixture , Water resistant 
8 IS : 1614 - 1960 Specification for oil of vetiver S . O . 3059 dated _ 16 December 1960 pub 
roots ( cultivated ) 

lished in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
Section 3 , Sub - section (ii) dated 24 
December 1960 


- 


- 


[No.CMD / 13 : 7 ] 


New Delhi , the zou October , 1969 
S . 0 .4587 . - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby potifies that amendment (s) to the Indian Standard (s ) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers conferred 
by sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations . 

THE SCHEDULE 


sl. 


No . 


No . and title of the Ladian Standard 

amcaded 


Brief particulars of the 

amendment 


No. and date of Gazette Noti - No. and date of 
fication in which the establish - the maendment 
ment of the Indian Standard 

was notified 


Date from 
which the am 
endment shall 

have effect 


3 


S . O . 1720 dated 18 May 1968 


1 October 1969 


I IS : 302 - 1967 General and safety require 

ments for light electrical appliances 
third revision ) 


No . 1 October 

1969 


( 1) Claase 34 . I and clause 

reference under the desig 
nation of Appardix D have 

been amended . 
( ii ) Clause 34 . 1, 2 has been 

deleted and clause 34 . 1 . 3 
re - numbered as 34 1. 2 . 


Bc.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,189149 


27 October 1969 


1 October 1969 


Sep ember 
1969 


2 IS :632 - 1966 Specification forBHC emul- S . O . 469 dated 11 February 1967 No , 2 OctoberClause 3 . 1 has been substituted 
sifiable concentrates (second revision ) 

1959 

by a new one. 
3 IS : 842 - 1968 Specification for Smith s S. O . 2578 dated 20 July 1968 No. 1 October Table 2 & 3 have been amended 
swages ( first reorsion ) 

1969 
4 IS : 1200 - 1964 Method of measurement S . O . 2673 dated 28 August 1965 No. 5 September (1) [Page 2 (page 3 of the 
of building works (revised ) 

1969 

Reprint ), contents, Sl. No. 
3 , 17 and 20 ) - Delete these 

serial numbers . 
( ii) [Pages 6 to 12 ( pages 7 to 

13 of the Reprint), clause 
3 ] -Delete all the provi 
sions given under this 

clause . 
( iii) ( Pages 70 to 74 ( pages 72 

to 76 of the Reprint) , 
clause 17 ]- Delete all the 
provisions given under 
this clause . 


( iv ) [Pages 86 to 89 ( pages 88 

to 91 of the Reprint) . 
clause 20 ) - - Delete all the 
provisions given under 
this clause . 


• 1962 


SIS : 1846 - 1961 Specification for lead - S . O . 2706 dated 18 November No. 2 November Clausesó 3. 1 and 6 . 3 .2 have beeil 1 November 
acid storage batteries for aircraft 1961 

1969 

substituted by new ones . 1969 
( aerobatic and non - aerobatic ) 
6 IS : 1865 - 1968 Specification for iron S . O . 1455 dated 19 April 1969 No. 1 November Clause 9 . 2 bas been substituted i November 
castings with spheroidal or r. odular 

1969 by a new one. 

1969 
graphite first revision ) 
7 IS : 2026 - 1962 Specification for Pover S . O . 2698 dated 1 September No . 4 October (i) Tables IX & XIII and 14 October 1969 
transformers 

1969 

clause 17 . 13 . 7 . 3 (b ) have 
been substituted by new 

Ones 
( i ) Fig . 19 , clauses 17. 12 .4 . 2 , 

17 . 12 . 4 -4 (a ), 17 .13. 2 , B - 2 - [ 
& table XII have been 

amended and 
( in ) Anewitem 18 and a new 

clause A - I- 1 (d ) have 

been added . 
8 IS : 2037 - 1962 Specification for tracing S . O . 2562 dated 11 August 1962 No 1 November Densitometer has been included 1 November 1969 
cloth 

1969 

as an ackdition instru 
ment of determination 
of transparepcy . The require 
ments of transparency have 
also been modified . 


4970 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
; 
NOVEMBER 
15 
, 
1969 
/ 
KARTIKA 
24 
, 
1891 
PART 
II 


9 * IS : 2083 - 1962 Specification for flash 

lights 


S .O . 2838 dated 15 September 

1962 


No. 2 June 

1969 


10 IS : 2567- 1963 Specification for malathion S .O . 1102 dated 28 March 1964 

emulsifiable concentrales 


No. 3 September 

1969 


( i) Clauses 7 .0 . 1 , 7 .3 . 1 and 1 June 1969 

3 . 1. I have been amended . 
(id) Anew clause 7- 7 has been 

added . 
(1) Clause 2.2 .1 has been sub- 27 October 1969 

stituted by 2 new on : 
( 1 ) A new item (f) has been 

added after clause 3 . 2 ( e ) 
& subsequent items re 
numbered accordingly . 


I October 1969 


I 


September 
1969 


1 October 1969 


11 IS : 3003 ( Part 1) - 1966 Specification for S . O . 4023 dated 31 December No. 1 October (1) Clauses 6 . 1 , 6 . 2 and 6 . 3 . 1. 2 
carbon brushes for electrical machines 1966 

1969 

have been amended . 
Part I Nomenclature , dimensions ard 

( ii ) Clause 6 .3 .43 has been 
test methods. 

substituted by a new one. 
( ii ) A new clause 6 . 3 . 1 . 5 has 

been added afier 6 . 3 . 1.4 . 
IZ IS : 3055 ( Part III - 1967 Specification for S . O . 287 dated 20 January 1968 No. 1 September (1) Clauses 6 . 1 , 7 . 1 , 9 . I IO .II 
thermoplastic insulated weatherproof 

1969 

and table I have been 
cables . 

amended . 
Part III Polyethyleneinsulated and polye 

( i ) A new clausc 10 . 1. 1 ) 
thylene sheathed . 

has been added and clause 

10 . 1 . 2 ( e ) substituted by a 

new one 
13 IS : 3168 - 1965 Specification for brass S . O . 3450 dated 6 November No. 3 October A note has been added at the 
strip and foil for deep drawing 

1965 

1969 

eod of clause 1 . 1 . 
14 IS : 3904 - 1966 Specification for thiometon S . O . 4114 dated 11 October No. 1 September A new clause A -2 . 12 and new 
concentrates . 

1969 

1969 

matter after clause A - 3 . I have 

been added . 
IS IS :3905- 1966 Specification for thiometon S . O . 1972 dated io June 1967 No. 1 September A new cause D - 2 - 12 has been 
emulsifiable concentrates. 

1969 

added and new matter in 
dodod at the end of clause 

D - 3 . 1 
16 IS : 4100- 1967 Specification for gin S .O . 520 dated 10 February 1968 No. 1 October (Page 5, clause 3.3 — Note , lige 

1969 

21 Substitute I2 [ ercent 

for ‘ FI percent . 
17 IS : 4697 - 1968 Methods of measurements 5 . 0 . 3961 dated 9 November No . 1 October The existing composition of 
on geiger-muller coupter tubes . 

1969 

ETDC 39 : P6 at page 2 has 

been substituted by new one 
18 IS : 4941- 1968 Specification for honey S . O . 1906 dated 17 May 1969 No. 1 November (Page 4 , clause F -2 . 1. 1,line I). 

1969 

Substitute Klett for Keitt ", 
19 IS : 4948 - 1968 Specification for welded S. O . 1906 dated 17 May 1969 No. 1 October Foot- note with an asterisk (* ) 
steel wire fabric for general use . 

1969 

mark at page 4 and first sen 
tence of clause 4 . I have been 
substituted by new one. 


1 September 
1969 


27 October 1969 


24 October 1969 


Sec 
. 
3 
( 
ii 
) 
] 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
; 
NOVEMBER 
15 
, 
1969 
/ 
KARTIKA 
24 
, 
1891 
4971 


I October 1969 


1968 


1 November 

1969 
I October 1969 


For purposes of ISI Certification Marks Scheme IS : 2083 - 1962 sball be operative both with and without Amendment No. 2 of June 1969 upto 
I March 1970 . 


These amendments are avilable with the Indian Standards Institution , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New Delbi- I and 
also its branch office at ( i) 534 Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Road , Bombay - 7 ( ir ) Chowsinghee Approach , Calcutta - 13 , (ul) 4 Gecesc Faliers Road 
Madras - 2 , ( ip ) 117 / 148 B . Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur, and (v ) 5 - 9 - 2012 Chirste Ali Lane, Hyderabad - 1. 

[No . CMD / 13 : 51 


4972 THE GAZETTÉ OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 (PART II -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 31st October 1969 
S . O . 4588 — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Irigtítution 
(Certification Merks) Rules , 1955 the Indian Standarus Institutior lcrety i otife s tret the 
Standard Mark design of which together with the verbal description of the design -rd the 
title of the releva nt Indian Standard is given in the Schedule heretc annexed , has beer 
specified . 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification 
Mark ) Act 1952 And the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder , shall comcinto force witti 
effect from 16 October 1969 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si. Design of the 
No. Standard Mark 


Product / Class of 

Product 


No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian 

Sandard 


Verbal description of the 
Design of the Standard 

Mørk 


(4 ) 


1 IS :3900 


Ziram , technical 


IS : 3900 - 1966 Spe- 

cification for ziram , 
technical, 


IS: 3900- 1966 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standards Insti 
tution , consisting of 
letters ISI , drawn in 
the exact style and rela 
tive proportiong as Indi 

cated in Col. ( 2 ) , the 
number designation of 
the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
thotopside of themono 
gram as indicated in the 
design . 


(No. CMD /13 :9 ] 


S . O 4589Io pursuance of sub - regulation ( 3 ) of regulation 7 ofthe Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marka ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifica 

that themarking fee per unit for z ram technical, details of which are given in the Schedule here 
to annexed has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect from 16 October, 1969 , 


THB SCHEDULE 


Product /Class of 

Products 


No. and Title of Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per 

Unit 


(1) 


(2) 


I Ziram , technical 


IS : 3900 - 1966 Specification 
for zirom , technical 


One tonne 


Rs. 3 .00 


[No. CMD /13 :10 ] 

A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General. 


SEC. 3 (ij ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 4973 
- - - - - -- - - 

पैट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा धातु मंत्रालय 

( पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 2 अगस्त , 1969 
का० प्रा० सं० 4590 : - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में अंकलेश्वर तेल क्षेत्र में व्यधन स्थल कुना संख्या 16 से जी जी एस 
I कोसाम्बा तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा 
बिछाई जानी चाहिए और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित 
भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 


अतः, अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 


3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , गुजरात पाइपलाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय , 
बरौदा के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र , शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड , सैन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस 
अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति 
विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी 
विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


अनुसूची 
व्यधन स्थल संख्या 16 को साम्वा से जी जी एस I तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिए 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : सूरत 

तालुका : मंगरौल 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


आर 


पी पार 


कुवरदा 


___ 14 


25 


. 


821 
820 
806 


78 


[ संख्या 20( 3 ) / 67 - प्राई ओ सी / लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


का० प्रा० सं० 4591 : - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यघन स्थल कुप्रां संख्या अहमदाबाद- 2 से 
कप म ख केन्द्र तक ट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा 
बिछाई जानी चाहिए और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित 
भमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 


4074 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II - - 


प्रतः, अब , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अजन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की अरा, 3 की उपधारा (1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का वापना ग्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 


3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति, उा भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
श्राक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइपलाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय, 
बरोदा के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र , शेड नं . 27, मकरपुरा रोड , संन्द्रल वर्कशाप के पाम बरोदा - 4 को इस 
अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति 
विनिर्दिष्ट ; यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिश: हो या 
किसी विधि व्यवसायी की माफर्त । 


अनुसची 
कुत्रां संख्या अहमदाबाद से कूप मुख केन्द्र तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिए 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : अहमदाबाद 


तालुका : सीटी 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार . 


पी पार 


... - - 


- --- 


प्रोदहाव 


. 


. 552/ 1, 2 और 3 0 2 40 

[ संख्या 29( 5 )/ 68--प्राई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


नई दिल्ली , 5 अगस्त , 1969 


का० प्रा० सं० 4592 यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोक हित में यह 
पावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यधन स्थल कुन संख्या 19 / 20, 21 से जी . जी . 
एस . 2 तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिये पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैसआयोग द्वारा बिछाई 
जानी चाहिये और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिये एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वणित भमि 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 


अतः अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


3. उक्त भूमि में हितबब कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये प्राक्षेप सक्षम 
प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइप लाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग ) के कार्यालय , बरौदा के पश्चिमी 
क्षेत्र रोड नं0 27 मकरपुरा रोड , सैन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरीदा- 4 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 
21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा 
कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 21, 1891 4975 


- 


- 


- 


प्रसूति 
संख्या 19, 20 तथा 21 से जी० जी० एस० 2 तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला: करा 


तालुका : 


मातर 


-- - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


. - .. . - . . 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


प्रार 


पी पार 


- 


. - . - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


कथबाड़ा 


173/ 3 


.. -.. -- . - - - - - - 


- - - - 


[ संख्या 29/ 7/ 68- आई० पी० सी० लेबर -- लेजिस ( सी ) ] 


का० प्रा०स० 4593 यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में जी जी एस II से टरनिंग पाइनट के - 2 के पास 
जंकश ! पाइनट तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा 
बिछाई जानी चाहिये और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित 
भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करना आवश्यक है । 

अतः अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( I ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का अपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 

___ 3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए आक्षेप 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गजरात पाइपलाइन . ( तेल तथा प्राकतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय , बरौदा 
के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र, शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड, सैन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस अधिसूचना 
की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह 
भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी 
की माफर्त । 


अनुसूचि 
जी जी एस संख्या 2 से टरनिंग पाइनट के - 2 के पास जंकशन पाइनंट तक प लाइन बिछाने 

के लिए 
राज्य: गुजरात जिला : करा 

तालुका : मातर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या . 


हैक्टर 


प्रार 


पी पार 


. -.... - - -- - - 


- 


कथवाड़ा 


307/ 1 


261 


[ संख्या 29/ 7/ 69- पाई० ओ० सी० / लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


4976 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 


का० प्रा० 459 4: - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में जी जी एस III से क्लेर पाइनट तक पैट्रोलियम 
के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए और 
ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार 
अजित करना आवश्यक है । 

प्रतः अब पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( I ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतद् द्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 

3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए आक्षेप 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइपलाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग ) के कार्यालय , बरौदा 
के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र, शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड , सैन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस अधिसूचना 
की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : 
यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिश : हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी 
की माफर्त । 


अनुसूची 


जी जी एस 3 से फ्लेर पाइनट तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिए 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला: मेहसाना 


तालुका: काड़ी 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


प्रार 


पीपार । 


- 


- - 


अमवाथपुरा 


119 


64 
48 


____ 119 


[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67- आई० प्रो० सी०/ लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ( ए )] 


कॉ० प्रा० 4593 : - - प्रत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लो क हित में 
यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यघन स्थल कुमां संख्या जी० जी० एस० 
संख्या I से सी०टी० एफ० तक पट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक 
गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध 
अनुसूची में वणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 


अतः, अब, पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( I ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतद्द्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 18914977 


3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यकि , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
पाक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइपलाइन (तेल तया प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय , 
बरौदा के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र, शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड, सेन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरोदा - 4 को इस 
अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति 
विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या 
किसी विधि व्यवसायी को मार्फत । 


प्रनुसती 
जी जी एस 1 से सी टी एफ तक कलक्टर पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिए 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : करा 


तालुका : मातर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


पी पार 


- - -- -- -- - - - - -- - -- - - - - 


- - - - -- - -- - 


नवागांव 


. 


. 


162/ए/ 4 
154 
970/ 2 
987 / 1 


[ संख्या 29/ 7/ 68 - प्राई० ओ० सी०/ लेबर एण्ड लेजिसए] 


का प्रा० 4596 : - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
आवश्यक है कि इजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यवन स्थल कुमांसंख्या जी० जी० एस० VII 
से कुमां सं० I तक ट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा 
बिछाई जानी चाहिए और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध मनसूची में वणित 
भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 


अतः, अब, पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम, 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतदद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 


3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
पाक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइपलाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय , 
बरौदा के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र, शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड , सेन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस 
अधिसूचना को तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति 
विनिदिष्टः यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिश: हो या 
किसी विधि व्यवसायी की माफर्त । 


4978 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART I - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 


जी जी एस 7 मे कुनां संनया तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने के लिए 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : गांधीनगर 


तालुका : गांधीनगर 


- - - --. . 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


पी पार 


सेरथा 


346 / 2 
353/ 1 
354 
352/ 1 वी 


00 
00 
35 


[संख्या 20 / 3/ 67- प्राई० ओ० सी०/लेबर एण्ड ले जिस ] 


का० प्रा० 4597: - ~~यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
प्रावश्यक है कि गजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यधन स्थल कुआं संख्या बी० सी० 15 से जी० जी० 
एस0 11 तक पैदोलियम के परिवहन के लिये पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा विछाई 
जानी चाहिये और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि में 
उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है । 

अतः अब , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रर्जन ) अधिनियम 1962 
( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतद् द्वारा घोषित किया है । 

3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने लिये आक्षेप 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइप लाइन ( तेल या प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग ) के कार्यालय बरौदा के पश्चिमी 
भेत. शंस नं 27, मकरपुरा रोड , सेन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 

दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा कि 
स्या यह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की माफर्त । 

अनुसपी 


वी० सी० - 15 से जी० जी एस 2 तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : कैरा 


तालुका : मातर 


गांव 


सर्वेमग संख्या 


हैक्टर 


- - -- -- - 


. पार पी पार 
- - - - -- - - - 

846 
0 

40 
80 


कथवाड़ा 


15 4/ 1/ पी 
154/ 2 
150 


[ संख्या 29 / 7/ 68- प्राई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस बी ] 


SEC. 3 ( i )] THE GAZETTEOFINDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 4979. 


नई दिल्ली , 26 अगस्त , 1969 
का० प्रा० 4598: - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
पावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यघंन स्थल कुंग्रा संख्या सानन्द 14 ( ऐस० 
एल० ) से 15 ( एस० टी० ) तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिये पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिये और ऐसी लाइनो के बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची 
में वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 


अतः, अब , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइत ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतद् द्वारा घोषित किया है । 

3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिये आक्षेप 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी , सी० एण्ड एम० प्रभाग ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग ) के कार्यालय , बरौदा 
के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र , शैड न० 27, मकरपुरा रोड, सेन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस अधिसूचना 
की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा प्राक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिष्टि यह भी 
कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की 
मार्फत । 


अनुसूची 


सनानी कुंपा संख्या 14 ( एस० एल० ) से कुंप्रा संख्या 15 ( एस० टी० ) तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने 
के लिये । 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : मेहसाना 


तालुका : कलोल 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


पीआर 


- 


जैथलाज 


82 


457/ 1 ) 
457/ 2 
456 
455 
449 ) 
448 


36 


44. 


90 


81 


गांव पंचायत कार्ट ट्रैक 

450 
444 
443 
438 / 2 


00 


1080 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [ PART II -- 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हेरर 


आ 


पी पार 


- - - 


- 


438 1ए 
438/ 1बी 
438 / 1 सी 
437 / 2 
430 


431 


376 


375 


374 / 1 
374/ 2 


[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67– पाई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस 


नई दिल्ली, 3 अक्तूबर 1969 
का० प्रा० 4599: - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
. आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में व्यवन स्थल कुंयां संख्या 119 से जी०जी०एस० 
VII तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई 
जानी चाहिए और ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि 
में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 

अतः, अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतद्वारा घोषित 
किया है । 

3. उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
पाक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, गुजरात पाइपलाइन ( तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग ) के कार्यालय , बरौदा 
के पश्चिमी क्षेत्र , शेड नं0 27, मकरपुरा रोड, सैन्ट्रल वर्कशाप के पास बरौदा - 4 को इस अधिसूचना 
की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट 
यह भी कयन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि 
व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 

अनुसूची 
कुप्रा संख्या के ० जे० डी० 119 से जी० जी० एस० VII तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला: अहमदाबाद तालुका : दसकरोई 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


पी० पार 


तारापुर . 


. 


___ 
0 


6 
1 


15 
95 


0 


Sic. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 498r 


- - 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हक्टर 


पार 


पी० प्रार 


- - - 


- - 


- - -- - - 


- - 


- 


वी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 


12 


14 


16 


बी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 


__ 97 


98 


M 


99 
वी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

100 
वी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

164 
100 


158 
157 


155 
बी० पी० कार्ट ट्रेक 

154 
195 
199 
197 
207 
206 

208 
बी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

577 
अदालज और प्रवरसद 
के बीच सड़क 

577 
576 


अदालज 


95 


[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - प्राई० प्रो० सी०/ लेबर एण्ड लजिस ] 

नई दिल्ली , 6 अक्तूबर, 1969 
का० प्रा० 4600:-~~- यतः, पैट्रोलियम , पाइप लाइन ( भूमि के उपयोग के अधिकार का 
अर्णन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार 
के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना का० प्रा० सं० 2378 तारीख 7 - 6 - 69 द्वार 


1982 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [ PART II 


केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची से विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को 
पाइप लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अजित करने का अपना प्राशय घोषित कर दिया है । 


और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन सरकार 
को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का विनिश्चिय किया है । 


अब, यतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदद्वारा अजित किया 
जाता है और उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय तेल और 
प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी विलंगमों से मुक्त रूप में , इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को 
निहित होगा । 


अनुसूची 


के 62 से जी जी एस V तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने हेतु 


राज्य : गुजरात 


जिला : मेहसाना 


तालुका : कलोल 


___ गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


प्रार 


पी० पार 


छसराल 


. 


op 


356 
355 
354 

353 
वी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

322 
323 
324 
325 


314 


313 


به 


310 
309 
308 


Sec. 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 4983 


- - 


- 


इसन्द 


674/ 2 . 
682 
683 


यादवस्वामी . 


. 


146 
147 
151 

150 
वी० पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

158 


159/ 2 
214 


2 


213 
222 


210 
223 

224 
वी०पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 

225 
सर्वेक्षण सं० 327 
पी० के० का कार्ट ट्रैक 

327 
288 
289 
290 
298 


60 


60 


[ सं० 29/ 5/ 68- प्राई० ओ० सी०/ लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


शुद्धि प . 

नई दिल्ली , 2 अगस्त 1969 
का० प्रा० 4601 : -~- भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - आई०प्रो० सी० / लेबर ( 10 ) दिनांक 12 - 5 - 1969 जिसका कानूनी प्रादेश 
संख्या 1935 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड ( ii ) दिनांक 2 4 - 5 -- 1969 
को प्रकाशन हुअा था , के पृष्ठ संख्या 2075 और गांव इसन्द में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 666 के स्थान पर सर्वे 
क्षण संख्या 566 पढ़िये । 

[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - आई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


4984 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II — 


का० प्रा० 4602 : - - भारत सरकार के पेट्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - आई० प्रो० सी० / लेबर ( 7) दिनांक 12- 5 - 1969 जिसका कानूनी प्रादेश 
संख्या 1932 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपन भाग II , खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड ( ii ) दिनांक 24 - 5 - 1969 
को प्रकाशन हुआ थ ख्या 2011- और गांव भोयान ( राथोडनी ) में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 215 / 
पा ( के क्षेत्र ) के 
हैक्टर पार पीमार 

हैक्टर पार पी० पार 
- --- - - - ~ - के स्थान पर ----- - ---- -- पढ़िए । 
___ 129400 

___ 0 1294 


[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - आई० प्रो० सी० / लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


नई दिल्ली , 4 अगस्त , 1969 


का० प्रा० 4603 : - भारत सरकार के पेट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 29/ 7/ 68 - आई० श्रो० सी० / लेबर ( 9 ) दिनांक 10 - 4 - 1969 
जिसका कानूनी प्रादेश संख्या 1470 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II, खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड ( ii ) 
दिनांक 19- 4 - 1969 को प्रकाशन हुआ था , के पष्ट संख्या 1381 और गांव कथवाडा ताल , 
मातर में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 306 / 1 का विलोप किया जाए । 


[ सं० 29 / 7/ 68- आई०प्रो०सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ( ए )] 


का० प्रा० 4604 : - भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 29 - 7 - 68- आई० ओ० सी० लेबर ( 2 ) दिनांक 10- 4-69 जिसका 
कानूनी मादेश संख्या 1463 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II , खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड ( ii ) दिनांक 
19- 4- 69 को प्रकाशन हुआ था , के पुष्ट संख्या 1374 - 75 और गांव कथवाडा के स्थान पर 
सर्वेक्षण संख्या 165 / 1 के श्रेत्र हैक्टर आर पी आर 

हैक्टर आर पी पार 
....... ------ - -- -- -- के स्थान पर - - - - -- - - - पढ़िए । 
08 09 

0 18 60 
2. और निम्न सर्वेक्षण संख्यानों का विलोप किया जाए : 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या रोड 190 - 2 पी , 16 5 - 2, 190 - 2 


[ संख्या 29- 7- 68- आई०प्रो०सी० /लेवर एण्ड लेजिस ( डी ) ] 


का० प्रा० 4605 : - - भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और 
धातु मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 29 - 7 - 68- आई० ओ० सी० /लेबर ( 7 ) दिनांक 10 - 4 - 1969 
जिसका कानुनी प्रादेश संख्या 1468 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपन्न भाग , खण्ड 3 के 


SEC . 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4985 


उप- खण्ड ( ii ) दिनांक 19 - 4 - 1989 को प्रकाशन हुअा था , के पृष्ठ संख्या 1378 तथा 1379 
और गांव नवागम तालका मोतर में निम्न सवःण संख्यानों के क्षेत्र परिवर्तित किये जाएं : - - 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


निम्न के स्थान पर 


क्षेत्र 
निम्न पढ़िए 


1. 162 3 
2. 970 1 
3. 880 . 
4. 989 . 


हेक्टर प्रार० पी०पार हैक्टर पार० पीपार 
. . 0700761 
. . ) 6250 17 42 

0 15 380 2438 
095699 56 


[ संख्या 29/ 7/ 68– आई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ( बी )] 


नई दिल्ली , 5 अगस्त, 1969 


का० प्रा० 46 06: --- भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु मंत्रालय 
की अधिसूचना संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 - आई०प्रो० सी० लेबर ( 1 ) विनांक 7- 6- 1969 जिसका कानूनी 
आदेश संख्या 2376 के अन्र्तगत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II , खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड (ii ) दिनांक 21- 6- 69 
को प्रकाशन हुआ था , के पृष्ठ संख्या 2490 और गांव सैज में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 1056 और 1074/ 4 
के स्थान पर क्रमश: संख्या 1066 और 1071 / 4 पढ़िये । 

[संख्या 20 / 3/ 67/ प्राई० प्रो० सो / लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


का० प्रा० 4607:- -- भारत सरकार के पेट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 20/ 3/ 6 7 - पाई० प्रो० सी० लेबर दिनांक 5 - 6 - 1969 जिसका 
कानूनी आदेश संख्या 2 370 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II, खण्ड 3 के उप - खण्ड ( ii ) दिनांक 
21 - 6 - 1969 को प्रकाशन हुआ था , के पृष्ठ संख्या 2 481 और गांव सेरथा में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 

हैक्टर पार पी०पार 
42. 1/ 1 ] 0 16 29 

418/ 11 
के स्थान पर सर्वेक्षण संख्या 

हैक्टर आर पी०आर 
421 / 12 

6 29 
418/ 1 

0 1000 पढ़िए । 


[संख्या 20 /3/ 67- प्राई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


4986 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II. - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


का० प्रा० 4608 : - भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 20/ 3 / 67 आई० प्रो० सी० लेबर दिनाँक 6 / 6 /1969 जिसका 
कानूनी प्रादेश संख्या 237 1 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपन भाग II , खण्ड 3 के उप खड (ii ) 
दिनांक 21 / 6 / 1969 को प्रकाश । हाम्रा था , के पष्ठ संख्या 248 3 और गांव गोटा में सर्वेक्षण संख्या 
420 के स्थान पर 400 पढ़िए । 


[ संख्या 20/ 3/ 67 – आई० ओ० सी० / लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


का० प्रा० 4609: - - भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान और धातु 
मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या 28/ 2 /68- आई० प्रो० सी० / लेबर दिनांक 6 - 6 - 1969 जिसका 
कानूनी प्रादेश संख्या 2374 के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र भाग II खण्ड 3 के उप- खण्ड ( i ) दिनांक 
21 - 6 - 1969 को प्रकाशन हुया था , पृष्ठ संख्या 2478 और गांव पन्सार के सर्वेक्षण सं० 1626 / 2 
के क्षेत्र में हैक्टर पार पी०एफ के स्थान पर हैक्टर आर पी०पार पढ़िए । 
0 92 27 

___0 09 27 
[ संख्या 28/ 2/ 68- लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 

म . वे० शिव प्रसाद राव , 
अवर सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


- - - - - - - - - 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS AND MINES AND METÁLS 

( Department of Petroleum & Chemicals ) 

ERRATA 
S . O . 4610 , - In the notification of Government of India in the Ministry of Petro 
leum & Chemicals and Mines & Metals No. 20 / 3 / 87- IOC / Lab & Legis . ( 7 ) dated 
12th May 1969 published under S. O . No. 1932 In the Gazette of India Part II , 
Section 3, Sub- Section ( ii ) dated 24 - 5 - 1969 . 

1. At page No. 2012 and at village Sertha, Taluka Gandhinagar . 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- - - - - . 


" READ " 


“ FOR " 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


। 


. 


. 


. 


० 


००० 


Survey No . 
1395 / 4 P . . 
1405 /2A . 
1395 / 3 
1262/ P . 
1395 / I . 
1260 

. 
1374 

. 
1270 

. 
1269 . 


M 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
, 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


Hect . Arc P. Are. Survey No. 

Hect. Are. P . Arc. 
० 5 61 1395 / 4 P. . . . ० 

० 
___ 59 1405/ 2 A . 
0 5 0 1395 / 3 . . , 0 6 29 
० 0 0 1262 P . . . 

4 27 
० 1575 1395/ I . . . ० 1375 
० 14 61 1260 

. . . ० 9 61 
0 4 85 1374 . . . . . I 21 
0 8 28 1270 

10 . . . . 7 90 
० 14 20 1269 . . . . . ० 6 97 

-- - - - 
[ No. 20 / 3 / 67- IOC / Lab. & Legls. ] 
M . V . S. PRASADA RAU, Under Secy . 


०००० 


+ 


00 


० 


- -.-. - . - 


- . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4987 


. . - : . 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- - - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Dopartment of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1969 
8 . 0 . 4611. - In pursuance of Section 36 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Annual Report of the Employees State Insurance 
Corporation for the year 1967 - 68 is hereby published for general information , 
List of Members of the Employees State Insurance Corporation 1967 - 68 

Chairman 
Shri Jalsukhlal Hathi, Minister for Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation 
Government of India . 

Vice - Chairman 
Shri S. Chandrasekhar, Minister for Health & Family Planning, Govern 
ment of India 

Members 
Representatives of the Central Government: 
3 . Shri S . C . Jamir , Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment and 

Rehabilitation , Government of India . 
4 . Shri P . C . Mathew , Secretary to the Government of India , Department of 

Labour & Employment. 
5 . Dr. K . N . Rao, Director General of Health Services . 
6 . Shri A . P . V . Krishnan , Joint Secretary to the Government of India , 

Ministry of Finance . 
7. Shri N . S . Mankikar , Director General Factory Advice Scrvice & Labour 

Institutes, Government of India . 
Ropresentatives of the State Governments : 
8. Shri A . Krishna Swamy, Secretary to the Government of Andhra 

Pradesh , llomc (Labour II ) Department. 
9 . Shri H . P . Duara , Labour Commissioner, Assam , 
10 . Shri R . C . Sinha , Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Labour & 

Employment Department. 
11 . Shri S . M . Dudani, Secretary to the Government of Gujarat, Education 

and Labour Department, 
12. Shri R , I, N . Abuja . Secretary to the Government of Haryana , Labour 

& Employment Department. 
13 . Shri C . K . Kochukoshy, Secretary to the Government of Kerala , Health 

and Labour Department. 
14 . Shri S . B . Lal, Labour Commissioner , Madhya Pradesh . 
15 . Shri V . S . Subbiah , Secretary to the Government of Madras , Industries , 

Labour & Housing Department, 
16 . Dr. Rafiq Zakaria , Minister for Public Health , Government of 

Maharashtra , 
17. Shri R . Anandakrishna, Secretary to the Government of Mysore , Food , 

Civil Supplies & Labour Department. 
18 . Shri Gananath Das, Secretary to the Government of Orissa , Labour, 

Employment & Housing Department. 
19 . Shri I, C . Puri, Secretary to the Government of Punjab , Labour and 

Employment Department. 
20 . Dr. S . C . Mehta , Director of Medical & Health Services, Rajasthan . 
21. Shri J. N . Tewari, Labour Commissioner , Uttar Pradesh . 
22 . Shri M . M . Kushari, Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, 

Labour Department. 
Representative of Union Territorios : 

23. Shri S . C . Vajpayi, Labour Commissioner, Delhi. 


11. Shringa loyment Departemetary to 


12. She employmentloshye 


4988 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [Part 11 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


Representatives of Employers : 

24 . Shri R . N . Joshi. 
25 . Shri D . P . Mukherjee. 
26 . Shri Madanmohan Mangaldas . 
27. Shri G . K . Bhagat. 

28 . Shri S . C . Agarwal. 
Representatives of Enployees : 

29. Shri R . Rengaswamy. 
30 . Shri Bishnu Banerjee. 
31. Shri M . T . Shukla . 
32 . Smt. Parvathi Krishnan . 

33, Shri V . B . Karnik . 
Representatives of Medical Profession : 

34 . Dr. M . A . Panwala . 
35 . Dr, Dinakar Rao . 


Representatives of Parliament : 

36 . Shri N . Sreekantan Nair , M . P . 

37. Shri Shankarrao Mane , M . P . 
Director General, E .S .I. Corporation , 
(Ex - Ofoto Member ) . 

38 . Shri T . C . Puri. 


List of Members of the Standing Committee of the E . S .I. Corporation 

1967 -68 


Chairman 
Shri P . C . Mathew , Secretary to the Government of India , Department 
of Labour & Employment. 

Members 
Representatives of Central Government : 

2. Dr. K . N . Rao, Director General of Health Services. 
3. Shri A . P . V . Krishnan , Joint Secretary to the Government of India, 

Ministry of Finance . 
4 . Shri N . S . Mankikar , Director General Factory Advice Service and 

Labour Institutes , Government of India . 


Representatives of State Governments : 
5 . Shri V . S . Subbiah , Additional Secretary to the Government of Madrag , 

Industries , Labour & Housing Department. 
6 . Dr. Rafiq Zakaria , Minister for Public Health , Government of Maha 

rashtra. 
7. Shri M . M . Kushari, Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, 

Labour Department. 


Representatives of Employers : 

8 . Shri Madanmohan Mangaldas. 
9. Shrt s . C . Agarwal. 

10 . Shri G . K . Bhagat. 
Ropresentative of Employeees ; 

11. Shri M . T . Shukla . 
12. Shri V . B . Karnik . 
13 . Shrimati Parvathi Krishnan . 


SEC . 3 ( u ) ] 


Av. IKU.. INL . A . . 


. . . 


- 


- 


Representative of Medical Profession : 

14 . Dr. M . A . Panwala . 
Representative of Parliament : 

15 . Shri Shankarra , Mane, M . P . 
Director General, E .SI, Corporation , 
16 . Shri T . C . Puri. 
List of Members of the Medical Benefit Council 1967-68 

Chairman 
Colonel R . D . Ayyar, Director General of Health Services. 

Members 
Representatives of the Central Government and the Corporation : 

2 . Dr. A . S . Sen , Deputy Director General of Health Services. 
3 . Dr . J . K . Thanawala , Medical Commissioner, E . S .I. Corporation . 
4 . Dr. A . T. M . Abdul Khader, M . B . Ch . B . (Leeds ) Director of Medical 

Services, Andhra Pradesh . 
5 . Dr. K . N . Brahma, Administrative Medical Officer , E . S. I. Scheme, 

Government of Assam . 
6 . Dr. Jagdish Narain Mehrotra , Deputy Director of Health Services 

(Medical) Bihar . 
7. Dr . Mahendra J. Bhatt, Director of Medical Services, E .S .I. Scheme, 

Government of Gujarat. 
8. Dr. P . N . Dugal, Assistant Director of Health Services , Haryana 
9 . Dr. John Kirk Patrick , Administrative Medical Officer , E . S .I, Scheme, 

Kerala . 
10 . Dr . R . G . Deshmukh , Administrative Medical Officer , E . S.I. Scheme, 

Madhya Pradesh . 
11. Dr. (Kumari) A . B . Marikar , Director of Medical Services, Madras . 
12. Dr. P . M . Bhandarkar, Suregion -General to the Government of Maha 

rashtra 
19. Dr. H . Shama Sastry , Director of Health Services, Government of 

Mysore. 
14. Dr . B . M . Nanda , Administrative Medical Officer , E .S .I. Scheme, 

Government of Orissa . 
16 . Dr. K . Moti Singh , Director of Health Services, Punjab. 
16 . Dr, M . H . Hakm , Deputy Director of Medical & Health Services, 

( E . S . I.) Government of Rajasthan . 
17. Dr, D . N . Sharma, M . D ., Director of Medical and Health Services, 

Uttar Pradesh . 
18 . Dr. H . Chakraborty , Administrative Medical Officer , E . S .I. (Medical 

Benefit ) Scheme, West Bengal. 
Kepresentatives of Employers : 

19 . Shri D . P . Mukherjee. 
20 . Shri R . N . Joshi. 

21, Dr. C . B . Singh, M . P ., F . R . C .S . (Lond .) . 
Representatives of Employees : 

22 . Dr. G . $ . Melkote . 
23. Shri Sumer Singh . 
24. Shri A . B . Bardhan . 


Representatives of Medical Profession : 

25 , Dr. H . N . Shivapuri. 
26 . Dr. N . Bhattacharjee. 


" ESIC AT A GLANCE 


PROGRESS 
31- 3-1966 ) 31- 3 -1969/ 31 - 3 - 1968) DURING 

1967- 1968 


STATES 

15 16 / 

16 - 
CENTRES 

259 / 273 300 2 7 
EMPLOYEES 

31, 29,400/ 32 ,12 ,400 / 33, 91, 100 ) 1 , 78 ,700 ) 
FAMILY UNITS 

30 ,33, 900 32 ,88 , 750/ 34,99,300/ 2 , 10 ,550 
INSURED PERSONS ! 34 ,05,000 / 35,45 ,000/ 36, 84 ,500 1 , 39,5001 
INSURED WOMEN 2 ,13,650 2, 30 ,750 2 , 51,900 21,150 ) 
TOTAL BENEFICIARIES 1, 21,42650 130, 16 ,600 1,32 .62,550 7,45 ,950 / 
EMPLOYEES - 

6 ,37,850 6 ,35,850 6 ,07,150 
YET TO BE COVERED 
CASH OFFICES 

406 447 478 31 
INSPECTION OFFICES 

93 

0 1141 
ESI HOSPITALS 

14 ) 

0 24 ) 
ESI ANNEXES 

17 18 1 
BEDS ESI HOSPITALS 2 ,098 2 ,466 / O 3.997 1:531 
BEDS ESI ANNEXES 406 / 406 ) 438 o 32 
BEDS RESERVED 

3,4031 3, 399 ) O 3688 ) O 289 
BEDS TOTAL 

5 ,975 ) 6 .2711 8 ,123 1 852 
S . I . DISPENSARIES 

573 

610 0641/ 0 31 
IMOS & IMPS 

5, 463 5 ,503 ) 5 . 923 4201 


OOO 


07 ofthe 


19 / 


171 


VALA 


CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION ( RUPEES IN LAMHS ) 


SANCTIONED ( UP TO ) / 3.079 . 79 / 3382- 75 / 4041.19 658 . 44 
SPENT ( UP TO ) / 1 . 714 . 01/ 2059 . 02 ) 2484 . 841 425 . 82 


INCOME & OUTGO 


1965 - 1966 


1966 - 1967 / 1967- 1968 


REVENUE INCOME 
REVENUE EXPENDITURE 
( RUPRES IN L. AKHS ) 


2309.28 
2 ,066 . 89 


/ 2533 . 69 / 2676 . 27 
2417 . 37 2717 . 30 


Sec . 3 { # ) ] HR GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4991 


ACHIEVEMENTS 


INCREASE IN 
NUMBER OF : 


1951- 1956 1956- 1961 1961- 1966 1966 - 1968 
107 PLAN 2ND PLAN 3rd PLAN 


CENTRES 

1 891 1391 
INSURED PERSONS 12 . 92 , 0001 6 , 47 , 000 14 ,66 , 0001 279 , 500 
FAMILY UNITS 

6 , 78 ,550123, 55 , 3501 4 ,65 , 400 
BENEFICIARIES 12 ,92.000 26 ,01 ,000 82 .49.650 16 ,19 , 000 
CASH OFFICES 

991 1291 178 0 72 
INSPECTION OFFICES 

321 

© 21 
ESI HOSPITALS 

71 0101 
ESI ANNEXES 
HOSPITAL BEDS 878 1,6101 3,487 | O 2 ,1481 
15 .1. DISPENSARIES 

236 2391 068 
IMOS & IMPS 1,767 1,036 2 ,0601 0 460 


. 


CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION ( RUPRES IN LAKHS ) 


SANCTIONED 


17 . 28 447. 67 2 ,614 .841 961. 40 
10 . 28 84 . 061,619 . 67 | 770 . 83 


SPENT 


O PROVISIONAL 


4992 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 PART II — 


INICOME & 
EXPENDITURE 


7 - 68 ) 


CAPITAL CONSTA 


EMPLOYEES CONTRIBUTION 

Rs . 1244 . 28 


O CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION 

( AS ON 31 - 3 - 68 ) 

AVAILABLE 
ESI FUND 
R $ . 3205. 61 

( IN LAKHS ) 


EMPLOYERS CONTRIBUTION 

Rs . 1, 364 . 07 


OTHER INCOME RS . 67 . 92 

TOTAL 

INCOME 
Rs. 2 ,676 . 27 


E SI HOSPITALS 
E SI ANNEXES 
SI DISPENSARIES 


EXPENDITURE 


AMBULANCE VANS 
ESI BUILDINGS 


SICKNESS 
BENEFIT 
Rs. 921. 47 


MATERNITY 
BENEFIT 

Rs. 40 -54 


DISABLEMENT 
BENEFIT 

R3, 242. 80 


DEPENDANTS 
BENEFIT 
Rs. 31- 61 


COTHER 
BENEFITS 
Rs. 29 .64 


ADMINISTRATIVE 
EXPENDITURE 
Rs . 327 . 66 


CAPITAL 
SANCTIONS 
Rs . 4041- 90 


MEDICAL 
BENEFIT 
Rs. 1123 .58 


CAPITAL ADVANCED 

Rs .2484 .84 
EXCESS OF CAPITAL SANCTIONS 
OVER AVAILABLE ESI FUND 

Rs . 835 . 58 


TOTAL EXPENDITURE Rs . 2717 . 30 

PEVENUE DEFICIT A $ . 47. 03 


SRC.- 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4993 


- 


- . 


_ 


- 


- 


1 . Introduction 

1. 1. An important landmark was reached with the enforcement of the pro 
visions of the E . S . I, ( Amendment ) Act , 1966 during the year . As a result of 
these amendments, the insured persons are now entitled to Funeral Benefit , 
additional Sickness Benefit on account of sickness arising out of pregnancy , con 
firement, premature birth of child or miscarriage , as also to the Maternity Benefit 
in case of miscarriage, apart from increase in the rate of Disablement and 
Dependants Benefits . 

1. 2. This year also witnessed the extension of the Employees State Insurance 
Scheme to cover a further 0 .68 lakhs insured persons employed in 27 additional 
centres in the State of Andhra Pradesh , Gujarat Haryana, Kerala , Madras, 
Maharashtra, Mysore, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh , details will be found later in 
the Report . 

Medical care was extended to families of insured persons in the following 
areas during 1967 - 68 : 


State 


Area 


Andhra Pradesh 


, 


, 


, 


Outskirts of Hyderabad, 
Outskirts of Vizianagaram , 
Kothavalasa . 


Gujarat 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Haryana 
Kerala . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. Bhavnagar, Morvi, Bhadiad and Traſpus 

village. 
Jorian village. 
. Veliyam , Ummannur, Koratty , Kodumba 

Pullazhy, Pallikkal, Madavoor , VelleUur 
Nagaroor , Kilimanoor and Pazhaya 

kunnumel. 
. Sambali and Metrur villages , Varajaneri 

Madras City and suburbs. 


Madras 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Maharashtra , 


. 


. 


. Sangli. 


Mysore . 
Orissa . . 
Uttar Pradesh 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


T . Narsipur , Kollegal . 
Jharsuguda. 


. 
. 


10 villages of Varanasi 

Distt . (Sahupuri), Unnao and 
Magarwara . 


The position in regards to the nature of medical care provided for families in 
various states is as follows : 
( a ) Restricted medical care .- Assam , Kerala (except Koratti and Udyog 

mandal) Madras ( except at Coimbatore and its suburbs , Madurai 
and its outskirts , Mettur, Tuticorin and Vickramasingapuram ) , 

Maharashtra , Uttar Pradesh , Rajasthan , West Bengal (Hooghly ) . 
( b ) Expanded medical care . - Andhra Pradesh ( except Hyderabad and 

Sirpur Kagaznagar ) . Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana , Madhya Pradesh 
( except Indore ), Madras ( only Madras and its suburbs ), Mysore , 
Orissa , Punjab , and West Bengal ( only Calcutta , Howrah and 24 

parganas ) . 
( c ) Full’ medical care , - Only at Hyderabad and Sirpur Kagaznagar In 

Andhra Pradesh and Indore in Madhya Pradesh . 
1. 3 . Five more hospitals were commissioned during the year — two in Andhra 
Pradesh - one each at Vijayawada ( 30 Genl. beds ) and Warangal ( 30 Genl. beds ) . 
one in Bihar at Maithon ( 76 Genl. beds ) , one in Haryana at Faridabad ( 80 Genl. 
beds ) and fifth in Uttar Pradesh at Modinagar ( 100 Genl, beds ) . There were , 


4994 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1989 /KARTIKA 74, 1891 [PART JI - - 


therefore, 24 full - fledged E .S .I. Hospitals working at the close of the year as per 
details given below : 


- 


- 


- - 


Sl. No. 


State 


Placc 


Date of No. ofbeds 
commission - G = General 
ing TB = Tuber 

culosis 


. Bangalore 


(i) Mysore . . 
( ii) Uttar Pradesh . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. Kanpur 


G : TB 
152 18 
130 - 
112 
100 
642 
175 
300 


T 


. 


( iii ) Maharashtra 
( iv ) Madras 


. 
. 


. 
. 


29 - 12 - 1961 

29 - 2 - 1968 
26 - 1 - 1962 
27 - 8 - 1966 
28 - 3 - 1962 

I - 4 - 1962 
27 - 11- 1967 
26 - 1 - 1963 
27 - 3 - 1964 


. Bombay 
. Madras 


30 


(v ) Bihar , 
(vi) Maharashtra 


. 
. 


. 


. 


Monghyr 
. World, 

Bombay 
. Hyderabad 


. 


(vii) Andhra Pradesh 
(viii ) West Bengal , 


. 
. 


0 


. 


. Kanirhati 


29- 3 - 1964 

1- 2 - 1968 
29 - 3 - 1964 
4 - 12 - 1965 
17 - 12 - 1964 
25 - 7 - 1967 
I- 1 - 1965 


( ix ) West Bengal 


. 


. 


. 


. Sealdah 


100 

75 
100 
ISO 


(x ) Andhra Pradesh 


30 


50 


. 


. 


(x1) Oriss . . . 
(xii ) West Bengal . 
(xiii ) West Bengal 
(xiv ) Punjab . . 
(XV ) Madhya Pradesh 
(xvi) Madhya Pradesh 
(xvii ) Uttar Pradesh . 
( xviii ) West Bengali 
(xix ) West Bengal , 
( xx ) Andhra Pradesh 
(xxi) Andhra Pradesh 
( xxii ) Ilaryana . . 
(xxili ) Uttar Pradesh . 
( xxiv ) Bihar . . 


166 

25 
150 


Sirpur 

Kagaznagar 
. Choujwar 
, Bellur -Bally 
. Serampore 

Ainritsur 

Indore 
, Indore 

Kanpur 
Uluberia 

Bankara 
. Vijayawada 
. Warangal 
. Faridabad 

Modinagar 
. Maithon 


23 - 3 - 1965 
15 - 4 - 1965 
2 - 10 - 1965 

1 - 3 - 1968 
15 -8 - 1966 
15 -8 - 1966 
26 - 1 - 1967 
26 - 2 - 1957 

1 - 2 - 1967 
26 - 2 - 1968 
18 - 3 - 1968 
15 - 2 - 1968 
27 - 1 - 1968 
27- 10 - 1963 


riTITILL18ILIR!|||!! 


166 


300 


30 


30 


, 
. 


, 
. 


80 


100 
76 


. 


. 


- 


TOTAL : 3479 + 518 

3997 


The bed strength of hospitals at Madras, Bangalore , Worli - Bombay , Hyderabad , 
Sirpur- Kagaznagar, Amritsar , Indore (Genl. ) , Vijayawada, Warangal & Mathon 
will be raised by 24 , 120, 130 , 20 , 80 , 100 , 75 , 60 , 20 and 24 beds respectively , 


Work in Worli- Bombay ( 130 beds ) , Sirpur -Kagaznagar ( 80 beds - - 40 Genl. and 
40 TB beds ) , Maithon ( 24 beds ), Amritsar ( 100 beds ) and Indore ( 75 beds ) has 
almost been completed and is in progress at Vijayawada (60 beds 40 TB and 20 
Genl. beds ) and Warangal ( 20 beds) . Work on 20 T . B , beds at Hyderabad , 120 
beds at Bangalore and 24 TB beds at Madras was not taken up at the close of 
the year. 


13 jur 


. - 100. ) JA: NOVEMBER 15 , 1999 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4995 


1.4 . The following E . S .I. Hospitals ( for the construction of which funds were 
sanctioned by the Corporation ) were in various stages of construction at the cloge 
of the year : 


Sl. No. 


State 


Place 


No of beds 
G - General 
TB = Tuberculosis 


TB 


Ito 
SO 

So 
620 


TO 


304 


(vii ) 


(1) Andhra Pradesh 

Andhra Pradesh 

Bihar 
( iv ) Delhi 

Delhi 
( vi ) Gujarat 

Gujarat , 
viit ) Haryana . 

Haryana . 
Kerala 

Kerala 
(sit ) Kerala 
( xiii ) Kerala 
( xiv ) Kerala 
( * ) Kerala 
( vi) Kerala 
( xuti) Kerala 


Visakhapatnam 
Adoni , . 
Dalmianagar 
Delhi . 
Delhi . 
Ahmedabad . 
Ahmedabad . 
Yamunanagar 
Panipat 
Mulakunathukavu 
Agaramam 
Allepry 
Udyopmandal 


200 


( ix ) 


On 


JOO 

SS 
I20 
60 


11913181181111811 
11 
% 

8 


Trichur 


Iom 


475 
177 


Paripally 
Peroorkada , 
Vedavathur , 
(Kottayam ) 
Ernakulam 
Ezhukone , 
Arpookara , 
Thotiada 
Coimbatore 
Madurai 
Ujjain . 
Rajpur 
Muland 
Nagpur 
Aundh 
Dandeli 
Ludhiana . 
Jullundura 
Kanpur 
Kalyani 
Buige- Budge 
Gaurhati 


ร 


( xviit ) Kerala 
( xix ) Kerala 
(xx ) Kerala 
(xxx ) Kerala 
( xxii ) Madras 
( xxii) Madras 
(xxiv ) Madhya Pradesh 
} (xxv ) Madhya Pradesh 
(xxvi) Maharashtra 
( xxvii ) Maharashtra 
( xxlit ) Maharashtra . 
( xxix ) Mysore . 
(xxx ) Punjah . 
(xxx ) Punjab 
(xxxii) Uttar Pradesh 
(xxxiii) West Bengal 
( xxxiv ) West Bengal 
( * xxv ) West Bengal 


1 


600 
ISO 


400 


60 


144 
250 


111 
! 
! 
! 


300 


150 


TOTAL, 


. 


4535 


- - 1414 

5949 


Construction work was also in various stages in respect of the additional beds 
for the hospitals already commissioned as indicated in para 1. 3 ante , 

1.5 . In addition , the following E . S .I. Hospitals are already sanctioned but work 
thereon has not started so far : 


General 

II 


(1 ) E . S . I . Hospital, Orma 
(it ) E . S . I . Hospital, Chelavoor 

E . SI.Hospital, Kalavoor - 

E . S . I . Hospital, South Madras , 
(0 ) . S . I. Hospital, Mangalore 
(vi ) E . S . I . Hospital, Jaipur . 
(vii) E . S . I. Hospital, Maniktola 
( viit) E . S . I. Hospital, Kanyapur- Asansole . 


| ( iv ) 


245 
150 
113 
400 


TOTAL 


. 


IOI8 


4006 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBLR 15, 19 /KARINA 24 , . . Lu Anr 


1.6 . Plans and estimates for construction of the following E .S . I. Hospitals were 
sanctioned by the Corporation during the year: 


SI, No. 


State 


Place 


Approx . 

cost 
(in lakhs) 


No. ofbeds 

G = General 
TB = Tuberculosis 


Rupees 


ΙΙΟ 


© Bihar , 

Kerala , 
Mysore . 

Rajasthan , 
( 0 ) West Bengal 
( 01) West Bengal 


Orma 
Kalavoor 
Mangalore 
Jaipur 
Maniktola 
Kanyapur 
Asansole . 


20 : 46 
18 . 22 
33 . 46 
25 13 
164 . 86 


(iv ) Rais 


ISO 
II3 
400 


49 .61 


- 


150 


TOTAL 


311. 74 


773 


230 


ru 


1.7 . One more 32 bed E . S . I. Genl. Annexe in Govt. Hospital, Koilpatti was 
commissioned from 30th March , 1968 . Two Annexes one each at Irwin Hospital, 
Delhi (50 Genl. beds ) and S . J . T . B . Hospital, Delhi ( 30 T . B . beds ) reported in 
previous Annual Reports have not been taken as these Annexes are owned by 
the Delhi Administration and beds are reserved therein for the E . S . I. Scheme, 
There were, therefore, in all 18 E . S . I. Annexe of the Corporation working at the 
close of the year as per detalls given below : 


SI. No. 


State 


Location 


Date of No. of beds 
Commission - G - General 

ing TB Tuberculosis 


GTB 


6 ) Andhra Pradesh 


. 


. 


(it) Maharashtra 


. 


. 


. 


(iii ) Madras 


. 


. 


. 


( iv ) Andhra Pradesh 


(v ) Madras . 
( an ) Rajasthan . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


(vii ) Mysore 


, 


. 


. T . B . Hospital, 

Irrannum , 5 - 1 - 1959 
. Mayo Hospital, 

Nagpur • . I - I - 1958 
Govt. Hqrs . Hos 
pital, Coimbatore 1 - 4 - 1959 
KEM Hospital, 
Secunderabad . 
Govt. Hospital, 

Sivakasi - 21- 1- 1961 
. KGV Sanatorium , 

Jaipur : Des., 1961 
SDS Sanatoriun , 
Bangalore 

1-4 - 1962 
TB Sanatorium , 
Tanbaram 

20 - 8 - 1963 
TB Sanatorium , 

Pulayanarkottah 5 - 1 - 1964 
. Govt . Hospital, 
Lalgudi . 

12 -3 - 1964 
ESI Hospital, 

Choudwar , 23- 3 - 1965 
. 

RIV Kesri Devi 
Sanotorium , 

- 1- 4 - 1965 


(viii) Madras 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(ix ) Kerala 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(x) Madras . 
(xi) Orissa . 
(wit ) Punjab . 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


SEC . 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 4997 


4 


5 


1 -4 - 1965 


(xiit ) Punjab . 
(xiv ) Rajasthan . 

(xv ) Rajasthan . 
(xvi ) Rajasthan . 
(xvii ) Rajasthan . 
(xviii ) Madras . 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 
. 


. TB Sanatorium , 

Dharampuri 
· M .G . HIospital, 

Jodhpur . 
. 

T . B . Sanatorium , 

Bari (Udaipur) 
. M . G . Hospital, 

Bhilwara 
Banger State 
Hospital, Pali 
Govt. Hospital, 
Koilpatti 


25-8 -1965 
20 -5- 1966 


12 - 3 - 1966 


. 
. 


. 
. 


15 -3 - 1966 


30 - 3 - 1968 


TOTAL 


. 


189 


+ 249 
- 438 


1.8 . The following 3 E . S .I. Annexes were nearing completion at the close of 
the year . 


S . No. 


Name 


No . of beds 
Genl. T . B . 


(1) 
(11) 
(117 ) 


T . B . Sanatorium , Itki (Bihar) . . 
T . B , Hospital ,Nagercoil (Madras) 
T . B . Hospital, Faridabad (Haryana) . 


26 


12 


TOTAL 


Plans and estimates for construction of the following E . S . I. Annexes were 
sanctioned during the year and work thereon was not taken up so far:-- 


Si, No . 


Name 


No. of hcde 


Genl. 


T . B . 


(0) E . S . I . T . A . Annexe, Gudiatham (Madras) , 
( ii) E . S . I. Annexc , Cauverynagar (Madras ) , 
(iii ) E . S . I . Annexe, Usilampatti (Madras ) , 
( iv ) E . S . I. Annexe , Mandsaur (Madhya Prudesh ) 

Total. . 


IO 
IO 


16 


1 .9 . The position of beds for the use of the insured persons and in due course 
members of their families in the E . S . I, Hospitals and Annexes comniissioned , 
under construction and sanctioned (work yet to start ) was as under at the close 
of the year :- - 


- 


- - 


Type of 
Projects 


- Projects 


- 


(a ) Hospitals 


COMMISSIONED UNDER CONSIN . SANCTIONED 
No. of No, of beds No . of No, of beds , No. of No, of heds 
Projects — 

- - Projects – 
Genl. TB Genl. TB 

Genl. TB 
24 3479 518 35 4814 1624 8 1138 

379 
18 189 249 3 - 58 4 30 
42 3668 767 38 4814 1682 12 1168 395 
1435 6196 

1563 


(6 ) Annexes 


16 


TOTAL 


, 


4998 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1991 (PART II 


1, 10 . The year under review saw the following 14 full - fledged S . .. Dispensaries 
housed in buildings owned by the E . S . I. Corporation : 


Sl. No. 


State 


Place 


No, of sanctioncd 
Insurance Medical 

Officers 


Andhra Pradesh 
( ii) Gujarat . . 


. 


Haryana 


Kakinada 
Saraspur 2 
Alimedabad 
Sonepat 
Udumelpet . 
Kondithope , 
Avadi , 
Paravai 
Pallavaram . . 

Tiruppur I 
. Kumbakonam 

Kovilpatti 
Lalbagh Burhanpur 
Mandsaur . 
Ulsoor : 


MacraS 
Madras 
Madras 
Madras 
Mucru8 , 

Madras , 
(x ) Madras 
( xi ) Madras . 
Carii) Madhya Pradesh 
(x212 ) Madhya Pradesh 
( xiv ) Mysorc . 


Iwwwwwnõbuõunuwl 


(viii) 


TOTAL . 


65 


· 


1 . 11 . The Corporation owned 115 * commissioned S . I. Dispensaries at the close 
of the year and the same were being manned by 499 Insurance Medical Officers 
( sanctioned ) . This excludes thc S .I . Dispensary in the 0 . P . D . of E . S . I. Hospital, 
Dalmianagar , 

1. 12 . The Corporation sanctioned during the year Rs. 566 .43 lakhs towards the 
cost of construction of 6 E .S . I, Hospitals , 3 Annexes and 23 S .I . Dispensarics 
including the revision of estimates of the sanctioned State Insurance Projects , 
acquisition of land and purchase of equipment therefor . 

1 . 13 . The following figures indicating the amounts sanctioned by the Corpo 
ration for capital construction of E . S . I. Hospitals / Annexes / Dispensaries and stall 
quarters may be of some interest : 

Rupees in lakhs 
Till . 1959 -60 

113 : 47 
During . 1960 -61. 

193 . 15 
1961- 62 

503 : 50 
1962 -63 

380 . 3.5 
1963 -64 

597 . 76 
1964 -65 

512. 08 
1965 -66 

526 -87 
1966 -67 

221 49 
1967 -68 

566 : 42 


TOTAL 


3645 . 21 


The total amount sanctioned upto 31st March , 1968 – Hospitals , Annexes , Dis 
pensaries including equipment and loan was Rs. 37, 45 ,20 ,849 - 26 . 

1 , 14 . During the year under review , the Corporation disbursed about Rs. 12 ,60 
lakhs by way of cash benefits ; its share of cost of the medical benefits during 
the period was estimated at about Rs . 11 , 24 lakhs. It is of interest to note that 
the Budget tor 1968- 69 provides for a sum of about Rs. 12 ,61 lakhs as the Cor 
poration s share of medical benefits . 

1. 15 . The chart EŞIC at a Glance gives the progress made by the Corporation 
during the year 1967 - 68 ; figures have been arranged to show the position as on 
31st March , 1966 , 31st March , 1967 and 31st March , 1968. The progress made in 
respect of certain important features of the Scheme during each of the three plan 
periods and during the period 1966 -68 is also indicated in the chart. 


" Includes 6 State Insurance Dispensaries owned by Central Government, 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 4999 
.- = 
2 . Progress in implementation 

During the year under review , the Scheme was implemented in the following 
further areas in the States mentioned below : 


Statc 


Place 


Coverage 


Andhra Pradesh 


Gujarat 
Haryana 
Kerala . 


, 


Madras 


, @ Vizianagaram (Outskirts ), Kothavalura Insutoc Lerschsand limilies 
Tirupati 

. . . . Insured Persons only 
Porbandar, Kalol, Nadiad , Jamnagar , . Insured Persons only 
Rewari, Ganaur . . . . . Insured Persons only 
Veliyam , Umnannur, @ Kodumba, @ Pulizhy, 1 
Pallikkal, Madavoor, @ Vellallur, Nagaroor, Insured Persons and Families 
Pazhayakunnumel. " 
Thodiyoor , Thiruvallam (Kalrampurom ) ? 
@ Perunad , Kulasckharapuram , 
@ Krishnupuram , @ Thazhava, Mynagpally Insured Persons only 

Thevalakkara , Panmana , 
@ Karunagapally 
@ Varuganeri ( included in Trichurapally ), 7 
@ Mylcripalayam , @ Paravai ( Samayanallur Insured Persons and Familics 
Centre Madurai @ Thenur villages 
(Centre Madurai) 
Uthukuli, Koilpatti, @ Tirunelveli 

(outskirts ) . . . . . . Insulred Persons only 
, Sangli . 

. . . . . . Insured Persons and Fomilies 
Nanjangud, Harihar . . . . . Insured Persons only 
. Kansbahal , 

Insured Persons only 
Jharsugula . 

Insured Persons and Families 
10 villages of Varanasi Distt . (Sahupuri), 
Unnao , Magurward , , . Insured Persons and Families 


Maharashtra 
Mysore . . 
Orissa . . 


Ullur Praiesh 


The number of additional employees covered during the year was 61, 850 and 
after taking into account the variations in the number of insured employees in 
the areas already implemented , the total number of employees as covered at 
the close of the year stood at about 3 ,391, 100 . At the close of the year , the 
Schcmc was in force in 300 Centres in all the states and the Union Territory of 
Delhi and Pondicherry . 
3 . Extension of Medical care to the familles of Insured Persons 

During the year under report , medical care was extended to about 162 , 850 
family ( I. P . ) units (ie, about 4 ,69 , 000 additional beneficiaries ) in the following 
States with effect from the dates shown against each : 


State 


Area 


Date of Extension 


. 


No . of Family 
( I. P . ) units 
09 on 31 - 3 -68 

3 


2 


Andhra Pradesh 


, 


6850 


, Outskirts of 

Hyderabad , 
Outskirts of 
Vizianagaran 

Kothavalasa . 
, 

Bhavnagar 
Morvi 
Bhadiad and 
Trajpur Village ) 


1450 

550 
11450 


25 -6 -67 
30 - 7 - 67 
25 - 2 -68 
28- 5 -67 
25 -6 - 67 


Gujarat , 


, 


, 


3100 


- 


. 


@ Not independent Centres , 

" Includes about 75 ,000 employees duc to additional coverage under the E . S . I. 
( Amendment ) Act, 1966 . 


5000 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 

- - 


Haryana 


, 


, 


, 


Jorian village . 


Included in 
Yamunanagar 


25-6 -67 


Kerala , 


. 


2050 

1900 
Included in Palghat . 
Included in Trichur 


24 - 9 -67 
16 - 12 - 67 
24- 12- 67 

4 - 2 - 68 


2350 


10 - 3 - 68 


Madras . 


. 


. 


. 


Veliyam 
Ummannur 
Koratty . 
Kodumba 
Pullazhy 
Palukkal 
Madavoor 
Vellallur 
Nagaroor 
Kilimanoor 
and Pazhaya 
kunnumal 
Sambali and 
Mettur villages 
Vatagader) . 
Madras city 
and suburbs 
Sangli , 
T . Narsipur 
Kollegal , 
Jharsuguda . 
TQ villages of 
Varanasi Distt . 
(Sähupuri) 
Unnuv and 
Magarwara 


. 


7400 

28 - 5- 67 
Included in Trichurapally 26 - 11-67 
116600 

27 - 11-67 
2100 

30 - 7 -67 


Maharashtra , 
Mysore . . 


. 


1600 
2050 


Orissa . . 
Uttar Pradesh . 


18 - 6 -67 
31- 12 -67 


. 


. 


1200 


27 -8 -67 


2200 


28 - 1 -68 


TOTAL 


. 


162, 850 


After taking into account the variations in employment in the areas already 
covered a total number of family ( I. P . ) units included for family medical care 
at the close of the year stood at about 3 ,499, 300 (ie , about 10, 078, 050 family 
members, excluding the insured persons ). 
4 . Extension of Scheme 

The schemç was extended to the following areas in different States on the 
dates indicated against each : 


States 


Arca 


Date of Extension 

3 


1 


- 


Andhra Pradesh 


Gujarat , 


, 


, 


26 - 11 -67 
17 - 3 - 68 
30 -4 -67 
25 - 2 -68 
31- 3 -68 
25- 2 -68 
26 - 6 -67 
24 - 9 - 67 
5 - 11-67 


Haryana 
Kerala , 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Kothavalasa , . 
Tirupathi 

Outskirts of Vizlanagram 
, Porbander, Kalol 

Jamnagar, Nadlad , 
. Rewari, Ganaur . 
. Veliyam Ummannur , 

Kodumba , 
Pullazhy 
Pallikkal,Madavoor, Kilimanoor, 

Pazhayekunnuiniel , Vellallur Ý 

& Nagaroor . . 
Tiruvallam , 
Perunad , Kulase Kharapuram , ) 

Krishnapuram , Thaghatta , 
Thodiyoor , Mynagapally , 
Thevalakhara , Panmana , 

Kurunagapally . J 


. 
. 


10 - 12 -67 


24 - 3 -68 


24 - 3 -68 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 


Madras 


. 


. 


. 


Maharashtra . 
Mysore , . 


. 
, 


. 
, 


, 


. Varaganeri . . . . 

Myleripalayam 
Paraval and Thenur 

Tirunelveli, kollpatti & Utthukuli 
. Sangli . . 

. . 
, Nanjangud . . . . 

Harlhar . 
. Jharsuguda , 

Kangabahal 
10 Villages of District Varanasi . 
Unnao and Magarware . . 


22 - 8 -67 
26 - 11 -67 
31- 12 -67 
31- 3 - 68 
30 - 4 -68 
28- 1 -68 
24 - 3 -68 
I -- 10 - 67 
24 - 3 - 68 
28- 5 -67 
29- 10 -67 


Orissa 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Uttar Pradesh , 


COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES & CONFERENCES 
5 . Corporation 

The E . S .I. Corporation held three meetings on 12 April 1967, 18 November 
1967 and 17 February 1968. Important decisions arrived at these meetings are 
given in Appendix - I. 
6 . Standing Committee 

The Standing Committee of the E . S .I. Corporation held three meetings on 11 
April 1987, 16 - 17 November 1967 and 16 February 1968 . Important decisions 
arrived at these meetings are given in Appendix - II. 
7, Medical Benefit Council 

The Medical Benefit Council held one meeting on 12 June 1967. Important 
recommendations of the Council are given in Appendix - III. 
8 . Regional Boards 

At the end of the year , Regional Boards were functioning in all the States 
excepting Haryana. The number of meetings held by various Regional Boards 
during the year is given below : 


Number and date of meeting 


Nanie of the Regional Boards 
Andhra l radesh 
Agsam 

. 
Gujarat 
Madhya Pradesh 
Madras 
Maharashtra 
Mysore . 
Orissa , 
Rajasthan : 
West Bengal 


MHNHNNNNNN 


24 -4 - 1967, 4 - 10 - 1967 and 25 - 3- 1968 
21- 6 - 1967 
15 - 9 - 1967 and 10 - 10 - 1967 
14 - 5 - 1967 
3 - 5 - 1967 and 12 - 12 - 1967 
28- 6 - 1967 and 2 - 3 - 1968 
8 - 5 - 1967 
31- 5 - 1967 and 10 - 2 - 1968 
5 - 6 - 1967 and 23 - 12 - 1967 
4 - 5 - 1967 and 25 - 1 - 1968 


LEO 


The Regional Boards in Bihar, Kerala , Punjab and Uttar Pradesh did not meet 
during the year . 
9 . Local Committee 

Under Regulation 10 - A of the E . S .I, (General) Regulations , 1950 , one more 
Local Committee was established at Ahmedabad in Gujarat Region during the 
period under report. 

At the close of the year , 126 Local Committees ( including one ad -hoc Com 
mittee in Delhi) were functioning throughout the country . 
10 . Employees State Insurance Scheme Revlew Committee s Roport 

The Recommendations of the ESIS Review Committee together with the views 
and comments of the Corporation , State Governments and other interests con 
cerned and the tentative views of Department of Labour and Employment were 
placed before the Standing Labour Committee at its meeting held in May, 1967. 
The Standing Labour Committee agreed that such unanimous Recommendations 


5002 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 


of the Review Committee as had also been accepted by the E . S . I. Corporation , 
should be implemented expeditiously and those which were not so implemented 
might be brought up again before the Standing Labour Committee . The Govern 
ment of India decided and advised the interests concerned that certain Recom 
mendations concerning ( i) the State Governments only , ( 11) the ESIC only and 
( ili ) both the State Governments and the ESIC , which could be implemented 
without legislation , should be implemented expeditiously , 

The ESIS Review Committee had made, in all, 176 Recommendations out of 
which 115 are such as have been accepted either fully or with modifcation or in 
principle by the Corporation . Action has already been taken for progressive 
implementation of such of these recommendations as do not require legislative 
changes. 

ADMINISTRATION 
11. Regional Organisation 

15 Regional Offices, 1 Sub -Regional Office, 236 Local Offices, 29 Sub - Local 
Offices, 213 Pay Offices and 114 Inspection Omces were functioning in all the 
States and the Union Territory of Delhi as on 31 March 1988 . 
12 . Strength of Staff 

The total authorised strength of officers and staff in the Corporation as on 31 
March 1968 was 6 , 386 as against 6 , 285 as on 31 March 1967. The staff authorised 
for various Regions as on 31 March 1988 is shown in Appendix - IV ( Part I) . The 
staff authorised for the office of the Directorate (Medical) Delhi, is shown in 
Part II of the said Appendix . 
13 . Confirmation of Staff 

The sanction of the Standing Committee to the creation of further permanent 
posts from 1 January 1967 was obtained and further staff confirmed against the 
additional permanent posts. 
14 . Principal Oficers 

Shri S . P . Joshi, I. A . & A . S . Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer , 
Employees State Insurance Corporation relinquished charge of the post of 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer with effect from 6 January 1968 
( A . N .) Shri V . R . Natesan M . A ., B . L ., F .I . A . ( London ) , Actuary , Employees State 
Insurance Corporation has been looking after the work of Financial Adviser and 
Chief Accounts OMcer in addition to his own duties w . e . f. 6 January 1968 ( A . N . ) 
15 . Publicity 

Several discussion and talks on Employees State Insurance Scheme in 
different languages were broadcast over various stations of the All India Radio . 
Lectures on various aspects of the Scheme were also delivered by officers of the 
Corporation to the workers at different centres . 

News items and articles giving periodical progress of the Scheme were 
published in many important Newspapers in English and other Regional 
languages . 

A close laison continued to be maintained with all the parties concerned in 
order to ensure smooth working of the Scheme, Doubts of employers , insured 
persons and Trade Union s Representatives who approached the Regional Omces / 
Local Offices, were also cleared . 
18 . Appreciation Course on Techniques of Administrative Improvement 

The E .S .I. Corporation deputed Shri K . C . Aggarwal, Regional Director , Mysore 
from 24 July 1967 to 23 September 1967 and Shri S . A . N . Murthi, Regional 
Director, Kerala from 1 January 1968 to 2 March 1968 for the Appreciation 
Course on Techniques of Administrative Improvement organised by the Ministry 
of Home Affairs ( Department of Administrative Reforms) at the Indian School 
of Public Administration , New Delhi. 
17. Technical Co -operation Scheme of the Colombo Plan 

On the request of the Government of Malaysia , the Government of India 
deputed Shri A , N . Ambo , Joint Insurance Commissioner of the E . S . I. Corpora 
tion , for a period of one year from 4 October 1965 , to 3 October 1986 as Govern 
ment of India expert under the Technical Co - operation Scheme of the Colombo 
Plan to assist the Government of Malaysia in drafting a Pension Scheme for 
periDanently incapacitated persons. The period of deputation was extended for 
another one year from 4 October 1966 to 3 October 1967. This period of deputa 
tion has been extended for another two years from 4 October 1987 to 3 October 
1989. 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 · 5003 


4 


STATEWISE COVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES 


ANDHRA PRADESH 


1, 19A00 


ASSAM 


LI 

2.700 
1,00 , 200 m 

22,500 
10 , 15O VIIMININNIHUULIIN NIIN 

11 . 430 
68,000 W 

W 

IZA 
2105 ,790 


28 , 200 


- 


- 


BIHAR 


- 


< 1, 63,700 


- 


- 


DELHI 


91. 000 


26 ,600 


500 126. 


-_- 91.000 91. 000 
numa 3. 99,950 


1 .52 .500 


GUJARAT 
KERALA 


41, 10 ,850 
9 ,900 


( 1,53 ,700 


1. 31,000 

12 , 800 
95,060 VINUTITITIA 


MADHYA PRADESH 


1.52 ,050 


7800 S 37, 000 


MADRAS 


3, 58 , 200 


( 8 . 70, 600 


MAHARASHTRA 
MYSORE 


1 . 96 , 100 


3 . 19 - 909 W 

20803,500 
6 ,05 , 660 

6 , 1000 , 0003 

1 ,62, 900 
5 ,200 

28, 100 
25,9001 WINNINNUNNITTIINIZ 

16, 800 - 

1,550 
1,71,600 VITA 

850 


OBISSA 


55 , 900 


PUNJAB , HARYANA 
HIMACHAL PRADESH 
& CHANDIGARH 


1,84. 2.00 


62, 600 


RAJASTHAN 
UTTAR PRADESH 
WEST BENGALI 


( 2 ,68 ,400 


4 . 7002 
57, 900 VITA 

3 ,1801 
241, 900 INM 

96,16 . 23 , 350 
8 .01 , 100 

m 
61, 8606 ,07,1902 
35 , 29 , 250 VINTIM 


8 .98 , 250 


ALL INDIA 


( 39,98,250 


10 2.1 2 . 4 30 % 40 % 


50 % 60 % 


70 % 


80 % 90 % 100219 

TOTAL 
EMPLOYTO 

COVERED & 
EMPLOYEES YGT TOBA 
YET TOBE COVERED I COVERCO 


indox 


EMPLOYECT COVERED EMPLOYEES COVERED 
AS ON 31- 3 - 1967 IDURING 1967 - 1968 


5004 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II 


HOSPITAL 
BEDS 


. 


THOUSANDS 


8 .123 


2970 Reserved Beds 

ESI Annexe Beds 
D ESI Hospital Beds 


111 


3688 


5 ,975 


6271 


DU 
III 


I 


| 3399 


IS 


II 


1 


JU 


III 


TU 

III 
I 

II ) 
III 
III 

11 
INTUI 


II 


1438 ) 


11 


111 
111111 


22 


III 


3997 


248812131 


11 


2 ,466 


IN 


2 ,098 


802 


1178 


179 VIKT! 


ni 


1956 


1961 


1966 


1967 


1968 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/ KARTIKA 24, 1891 5005 


COVERAGE 
18 . No. of employees eto, covered (Appendices V and VI) 

Appendices V and VI give particulars regarding coverage under the Scheme. 
About 18, 520 factories stood covered under the Scheme as on 31 March 1968 
as against 17, 797 a year back . Of these , about 16 , 762 factories were in the 
implemented centres ( 300 in number ) — the corresponding number last year being 
15 ,874 and the remaining 1 , 758 factories in the areas yet to be implemented . 
The total number of employees in the implemented centres was about 33, 91 lakhs; 
the number of employees in areas yet to be covered was about 6 .07 lakhs. The 
number of insured persons entitled to medical treatment was about 36 .85 lakhs 
and the number of family (insured person ) units about 34 . 99 lakhs. In all the 
total number of beneficiaries ( including the insured persons ) entitled to medical 
treatment on 31 March 1968 was estimated at 137 .63 lakhs, 


19 . Provision of hospital beds for in - patient treatment 


19 . 1 . During the year 1967 - 68 , 1852 beds were provided under the E .S .I . 
Scheme in different Medical Institutions / ESI Hospitals /Wards/ Annexes , the total 
number of beds provided under the E . S . I. Scheme as on 31 March 1968 was 8 , 123 
the details of which are glven in the Appendix - VII , 


ran 
. 
. 


5 : 40 


19, 2 . During the year under report the average recurring cost per bed per 
day of E . S . I, Hospital was as under : 

Rs. P . 
(O) E . S . I. Hospital, Hyderabad (An lhra Pradesh , 210 beds) . 
( ii) E . S . I. Hospital, Sirpur Kagiznagar ( Andhra Pradesh , 30 beds) Not available 
(iii ) E . S . I. Hospital, Warangal Andhra Pradesh , 30 beds ) 
(iv ) E . S . I . Hospital, Vijaywada (Andhra Pradesh , 30 beds ) . 
(v ) E . S . I. Hospital,Monghyr ( Bihar, 30 beds) . . . 
( 02) E .S .I. Hospital, Maithon ( Bihar, 76 beds) . . . 

2 . 76 
(vii ) E .S .I.Hospital, Faridabad (Haryana, 80 beds) . . 

Not available 
( viii) E .S. I. Hospital, Indore (Madhya Pradesh , 150 beds) . . 

12 : 00 
(ix ) E .S .I. Hospital, Indore (Madhya Pradesh , 75 T .B . będ ) . 

10 . 00 
(x ) E . S.I.Hospital, Madras (Madras, 500 beds) . . 

15 :43 
(X1) E . S .I. Hospital, Worli Bombay (Maharashtra , 120 T . B . bedo) 

* 20 05 
(xii) M .G .M . Hospital, Bombay (Mharashtra, 642 beds) . 

* 20 . 58 
(xiii) E .S.I.Hospital, Bangalore (Mysore , 300 beds ) . . . . 9 . 90 
(xiv ) E .S.I.Hospital , Chou iwar (Orissa , 50 beds) . . . Not available 
(xv ) E .S .I. Hospital, Amritsar (Punjab, 25 beds) . . . Notavailable 
(xvi) E .S .I.Hospital , Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh , 212 beds) . 

5 : 32 
( xvii ) E .S .I. Hospital,Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh , 180 T .B . beds) 

5 . 55 
(xviii ) E .S.I. Hospital Molinagar (Uttar Pradesh , too beds) . . Not available 
( xix ) E .S .I . Hospital, Kimichatti (West Bengal, 175 beds) . . 

* 10 : 29 
(xx ) E . S .I. Hospital, Sealdah (West Bengal, 250 beds) . . 

+ 8. 49 
(xxi) E .S.I.Hospital, Bellur Bally (West Bengal, 100 T.B . beds) . . * 10 : 36 
(xxii) E .S .I. Hospital, Serampore (West Bengal , 166 beds) , . 

* 9 -22 
(xxiii) E .S.I. Hɔzpital,Uluberia (West Bengal, 166 będo) , 

* 2.92 
(xxio ) E .S.I,Hɔspital, Bankara (West Bengal, 300 beds) . . . 

2064 


* Indicate approximate cost. 


5006 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II - 


- 


- 


- - 


20 . State Insurance Dispensaries and Clinics of Insurance Medical practitioners 

( Panel Doctors ) 

Arrangements for out-patient medical attendance and treatment in ( a ) the 
new areas where the Scheme was implemented and (b ) in the areas where the 
extension of medical benefit to the families of the insured persons in the imple . 
mented areas was affected during the year 1967 - 68 were made through service / 
panel system . For this purpose additional part - time dispensaries and full time 
dispensaries were set up under the Scheme besides utilising the services of 
employer s dispensaries . 


Particulars in respect of all dispensaries, including part - time, Mobile and 
employers utilisation dispensaries , Number of Insurance · Medical Officers / 
Insurance Medical Practitioners , number of approved chemists and medical Stores 
Depots as on 31st March 1988 are shown in Appendix - VIII. 


21, Specialists Services 

The details of specialists available under the ESI Scheme in various States at 
the end of the year under report is given in Appendix - VII (Colş, 13 and 14 ) . 


22 . Provisions of artificial Imbs to insured persons 

During the year under report, fifty - three cases were admitted for fitting of 
artificial limbs. In all, 300 insured persons had been or were being fitted or 
refitted with artificial limbs under the Scheme. 


23. Provision of artificial dentures 

During the year under report, artificial dentures free of cost wers 
to seven insured persons who lost teeth due to employment injury . In all, 12 
ingured persons had been provided with artificial dentures so far under the 
Scheme. 


24 , Provision of spectacles 

During the year under report, spectacles free of cost were provided to twenty 
insured persons who suffered from loss of vision due to employment injury . . 


PROVISION OF MEDICAL BENEFIT 


25 . Attendances at dispensaries and hospitals and home visits (Appendix - IX ) 

25 . 1. Statistics of ( a ) the attendances per annum per 1, 000 insured persons 
and also per 1, 000 family ( insured person ) units , ( b ) the number of home visits 
in respect of insured persons and families and ( c ) the number of cases referred 
to hospitals for admission and for specialist investigations in respect of insured 
persons are given in this Appendix . These figures are based on returns furnished 
primarily by the dispensaries and panel practitioners . For working out the rates 
of medical attendances , the number of insured persons/ family ( insured person ) 
Units attached to the reporting dispensaries / clinics, suitably adjusted . To deemed 
to be " exposed " . 


25 . 2 . During the year under report, the All India rate of new attendances per 
1, 000 insured persons fell from 3 , 427 in 1966 -67 to 3 , 292; the number of old 
attendances per 1, 000 insured persons has also registered a fall from 7,991 in 
1966 -67 to 7 , 950 . This year the proportion of old attendances to new has been 
2 .41 as against 2 . 33 experienced in 1966 -67, This indicates prima facie that the 
period requiring medical treatment may be comparatively longer , although the 
incidence of Sickness as measured by the rate of new attendances has decreased . 


25 . 3 . The A11 - Indla rate of new attendances per 1, 000 family units increased to 
3 , 327 in 1966 -67 to 3, 715 ; the number of old attendances per 1,000 family units has 
also registered an increase from 6 , 727 in 1966 -67 to 7 ,869 . The proportion of old 
attendances to new has increased slightly from 2 . 0 during 1966 -67 to 2 . 1 during 
1967 - 68 . Thus there has been an increase both in the incidence of sickness 
( requiring medical treatment) and the period requiring medical treatment in the 
case of families . 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5007 


25 , 4 . This year the pattern of attendances and their duration in respect of 
families has shown an upward trend when compared with the corresponding . 
pattern and trend in respect of insured persons. 


25 .5 . The over -all State -wise incidence , during the year , of the combined 
" new " and " subsequent" attendances in dispensaries , in respect of insured per 
sons and their families, is given below . These figures reflect broadly the incidence 
pattern of out-patient treatment in the respective States: 


State 


Total No. of visits to 
dispensaries per 1000 

insured persons 


Total No. of visits to 
dispensaries per icco 
family ( insured persons ) 

Units 


I 


1966 -67 


1967 - 68 


1966 -67 


1967 - 68 


24, 387 


5 ,663 


Andhra Pradesh 
Assam 
Bihar 
Delhi 
Gujarat 
Haryana . 
Kerala 
Madhya Pradesh 
Madras . . 


...... 


...... 


18 ,999 
9 ,019 
9 , 972 
10 , 320 

6 , 769 
Included in 
Punjab 

12 ,321 
20 , 964 
12 ,033 


18 , 128 
79558 
9 , 765 
9 ,643 
12 ,982 
9 ,034 


16 , 168 
10 , 946 

8 ,777 
Included in 
Punjab 

9 ,499 
34 ,481 
13 , 191 


22 , 557 

4 , 760 
14 ,096 
10 , 861 
19 ,273 
9 ,282 


... 


12 , 999 
19 ,442 
11, 746 


10 , 592 
27 ,554 
11,378 


. 


. 


Maharashtra 

(1) Gr. Bombay 

( ú ) Nagpur Area 
Mysore 
Orissa 
Punjab 
Rajasthan , 
Uttar Pradesh 
West Bengal , 


11,557 
15 , 965 
13, 226 

9 ,799 
· 10 , 259 
10 , 891 

9 ,799 
10 ,441 


11, 116 
16 ,034 
11,809 
19 ,879 
10 , 19 4 
10 , 933 
10 ,413 
9 ,072 


5 ,240 
22,098 
15 , 168 
8 ,811 
6 ,326 
13 , 589 
9 , 267 
4 ,017 


5 , 146 
21,927 
13 , 582 
7 ,949 

9 . 697 
13 , 524 
9 ,313 
7 , 379 


ALL - INDIA 


, 


, 


11,419 


11, 241 


10 ,054 


11, 584 


25 .6 . The total number of home visits in respect of insured persons has gone 
up by about 1 per cent compared to that in 1986 -67 ; in respect of families the 
increase registered is about 11 per cent. However, the incidence of home visits 
as measured by the number of visits per insured person has shown a decrease . 

25. 7. Columns ( 5 ) and (6 ) indicate , State -wise , the number of cases referred 
to hospitals ( a ) for admission and ( b ) for specialist inyestigation respectively , 
The total number of cases referred for admission to hospitals has shown an 
increase from 73, 068 in 1966 -67 to 1,03,863 in 1967 - 68 , Similarly , there was an 
increase in the number of cases referred for specialist investigation also . As 
more and more E . S . I. Hospitals are being pressed into service these services . 
assume an increasing role . 
26 . Sickness Pattern (Appendix - X ) 

26 . 1. Information on the sickness pattern for the country as a whole , expressed 
as the number of new cases per 1,000 insured persons exposed , is indicated in 
this Appendix for each of the 51 cause - groups , separately for the insured workers 
and the members of their family . From a comparison with the last year s figures 
(vide the Appendix ) it would appear that the pattern of the incidence of sick 
ness is almost the same. 

26 . 2 . The incidence rates for all cause -groups taken together is lower in 
1967-68 than in 1966 - 67 , in respect of insured persons whereas a slightly higher 
incidence has been experienced in case of families for every spell in respect of 
an insured person , there has been this year 1 . 129 fresh spells in respect of the 
members of the family of an insured person , as against 0 . 971 spells in the year 


5008 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II - 


1966 -67. It may , however , be observed that the incidence of morbidity ( as 
measured by incidence of new cases ) among the family members is much smaller 
than the incidence among the insured persons particularly when it is borne in 
mind that as against one insured person there are 2 .88 family members. 


26 . 3 . Cause - group -wise incidence of sickness in respect of insured persons 
bear a close resemblance to the corresponding rates experienced by members 
of the family of insured persons for almost all the diseases listed . However , 
wide deviations in Incidence in a very small number of cause - groups only , bring 
out in high relief the peculiar ailments to which the particular group is com 
paratively more prone to . 
27, Medical Service and Allocation Committees 

The details of the work done by the Committees are indicated in Appendix -XI. 
28 . Medical Referees 

At the end of the year the following is detailed statement of full time and 
part - time Medical Referees posted for duties in the respective states, 


Name of the State 


No. of Medical Referces 


Part Time 


Full Time 


.... 


... 


1. Andhra Pradesh . 
2 . Assam . 
3 . Bihar 
4 . Delhi 
5 . Gujarat 
6 . Haryana 
7 . Kerala 
8 . Maharashtra 
9 . Madras 
Io . Mysore 
II. Madhya Pradesh . 
I2 . Orissa , 
13. Pondicherry 
14 . Punjab , 
I S . Rajasthan 
16 . Uttar Pradesh 
17 . West Bengal . 


............ 


............... 


.... 


......... 


anllllHWUHINHA 


ab 


..... 


TOTAL . 


AL 


. 


29 . Expenditure on the provision of medical benefit - Payments authorised to Stato 

Governments 


During the year, under report , a sum of Rs. 10,65 , 95 ,881. 05 paise as detailed in 
Appendix XII was authorised by the Corporation for the payment to the State 
Governments against its share of expenditure on the provision of the Medical 
Benefit under the E . S . I. Scheme. The break - up of the above amount is as 
under : 

Rs. P . 
I. Final payments in settlement and adjustment of accounts for 1964 -65 

62 ,09,879 51 
2 . Final payments in settlement and adjustment of accounts for 1965-66 

88 ,84, 887 .84 
3 . Final payments In settement and adjustment of accounts for 1966 - 67 

15, 52 , 136 41 
4 . Final payments in settlement and adjustment of accounts for 1967-68 34 ,28 . 977" 29 
5. Provisional payments for 1966 -67 . . 

60, 57 ,271 . 78 
6 " On account" payments for 1966 -67 . . 

1,27,00 ,000 . 00 
" On account " payments for 1967-68 , . 

6 ,81,60 ,000 . 00 
TOTAL 

10 ,65,95 ,881 og 


Sec . 3 ( if ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5009 


30. Agreement between the State Governments and the E . S .I. Corporation under 

Section 58 of the E . S . l. Act, 1948 


- 


- - 


S. No. 


Name of State Government 

where negotiation is still 
going on for agreement 


Latest action taken 
or proposed to be 

taken 


I State Government of West Bengal 


StatcinentGovernment ofGujarat 


State Government has been 

requested to submit final 
draft agreement duly exe 
cured by the official aut 

horised for . 
F .No. 8 - 2 / 14 /63 Last reninder issued on 4 -6 
( M ) 

1968 . 
Draft decd of agreemant not 

received as yet. 
F .No. 8 - 2 / 15/63( M ) A reminder is under issue. 

State Government has 
not accepted some clauses 
of the agreement which are 

still under consideration of 
F .No. 8 -2 /23 /68 ( M ) the Corporation , 
F . No. 8 -2 /13 /63( M ) Draft deed of agreement is 

under examination . 


3 State Government of Uttar 

Pradesh 


4 State Government of Bombay 


31. Yoga education for Industrial workers 

The Corporation has undertaken the evaluation of usefulness of the Scheme of 
Yogasanas in consultation with Bharat Sowak Şamaj, Delhi. Further extension of 
the Scheme will depend upon this study . 
32 . Family Planning Programme 

During the year under report, the State Governments have been requested to 
start / introduce the family planning work in the Dispensaries / clinics . 
33 . Integrated Preventive and Curative Services 

The Programme of integrated preventive and curative services was also started 
at Kanpur In addition to Delhi and Hyderabad , as approved by the Corporation , 
34 . Rationalisation of Forms and Returns 

During the year under report a number of Regulation / Forms/ Returns / Registers 
were taken up for review consequent upon the amendment of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 by the Employees State Insurance ( Amendment) Act, 
1966 . As a result 31 Forms/ Registers / Statements have been modified . 
35 . Employees State Insurance (Amendment) Act, 1966 

Some of the provisions of the Employees Ştate Insurance (Amendment) Act , 
1966, which had been enacted with a view to simplify the various lengthy and 
complicated formalities under the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 were 
brought into force w . e . f. 17th June 1967. The remaining provisions of the 
Employees State Insurance ( Amendment) Act, 1966 were brought into force w .e . f. 
28th January 1968 . 
36. Amendment to the Employees State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1960 

With a view to give affect to the provisions of the E .S .I. (Amendment) Act, 
1966 , the E . S . I. (General) Regulations, 1950 required substantial changes . These 
amendments were finally adopted by the Corporation on 18th November 1967 and 
thereafter notified in the Official Gazette on 28th January 1968 so as to synchronize 
with the enforcement of the remaining provisions of the E . S . I, ( Amendment) Act , 
1968 . 
37. Eficiency in the working of the Local Offices 

37. 1, According to the system in vogue from the very inception of the scheme, 
the Local Offices were maintaining a beneft file in respect of each Insured person 
for making payment of cash benefit under the E . S .I . Act. Experience has shown 
that the system of making payment to insured persons on benefit Ale was not 


SOIO THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 PART II 


working efficiently as sometime the benefit Ales get lost or misplaced with conse 
quent delays in payments to insured persons which in turn led complaints from 
them . It was also found that the benefit files required a lot of space and valuable 
steel equipment for their maintenance in Local Offices . With a view to improve 
upon the working of the Local Offices and saving the space. Ledger System for 
making payments to Insured Persons was introduced on 7 December 1967 in a 
Local Office at Bombay as an experimental measure. This new system has been 
studied closely and it has been found to be working efficiently . In view of this 
it has been decided to introduce this system in 6 other Local Offices, 4 of which 
are composite Local Offices and the remaining 2 are Single Employer Local Offices , 
In the next phase about 16 Local Offices in Bombay and in out- station areas are 
proposed to be brought under the new system which will thereafter be introduced 
in all Local Offices , if the experiment proves successful. The impression gained so 
far as is that this is working well within its limited sphere of enforcement and 
has resulted in expeditious payments to insured persons. . 


37, 2 , The Teller system of payments to insured persons is also under study . 
Under the Teller system of payments it is proposed to effect payment of cash 
benefit to the insured persons straighway by the claim clerk on presentation of 
the claim . With the introduction of the Teller System the efficiency of the Local 
Offices is likely to increase further. 


38 . Improvements in the Cash Benefits after the amendment of E . S . I. Act. 

The following improvements in the Standard of cash Benefits have been effected 
by enforcement of the provisions of the E . S . I, ( Amendment) Act, 1966 with effect 
from 28th January , 1968 . 


( 1 ) Sickness Benefit . — The contributory conditions for entitlement to sickness 
benefit has been simplified and now an insured person qualifies for sickness benefit 
on payment of only 13 weekly contributions in the corresponding contribution 
period of 26 / 27 weeks. 


(2 ) Maternity Benefit. — The scope of maternity benefit has now been enlarged 
and maternity benefit is also payable in case of miscarriage for a period of six 
weeks immediately following the date of miscarriage. Further in case of sickness 
arising out of pregnancy , confinement, premature birth of child or miscarriage, 
additional maternity benefit for an additional period not exceeding one month is 
payable . In the event of death of the insured woman during confinement leaving 
behind a child , the maternity benefit due to her is payable to her nominee . 


( 3 ) Disablement and Dependants Benefit - The rate of disablement benefit has 
been enhanced and is now 25 per cent more than the Standard Benefit Rate ( Sick 
ness Benefit Rate ) . In fatal employment injury cases , the minor dependants shall 
now remain entitled to dependants benefit until attaining 18 years of age without 
any condition and in case of infirm dependants till the infirmity lasts . 


( 4 ) Funeral Beneft. — A new benefit in the shape of a grant upto a maximum 
amount of Rs, 100 to meet funeral expenses in respect of the deceased insured 
person has been provided . 


39 . Commutation of perlodical payments of Permanent Disablement Benofit into 

lump- sum . 

So far , under Regulation 76 - B of the E . S .I, (General ) Regulations, 1950 , com 
mutation of small periodical payments of permanent disablement benefit was 
permissible to insured persons where disablement had been Anally assessed and 
who had been awarded permanent disablement benefit at a rate upto 50 paise a 
day . During the year under report, Regulation 76 - B of the E . S . I. (General) Regu 
lætions, 1950 has been amended so that insured persons whose permanent disable 
ment benefit have been assessed as final, in terms of Regulation 73 of the E . S . I, 
(General) Regulations, 1950 and who have been awarded permanent disablement 
benefit at a rate not exceeding Re. 1 per day can now apply for commutation of 
the periodical payments of permanent disablement benefit into one lump -sum . 
This amendment was necessitated by the fact that periodical payments @ Re. 1 
per day do not provide adequate economic security . The amendment has come 
into operation with effect from 6th April, 1968 . 


- 


manTo 


14 


! . 


B 


+ 


1.20,000 


12,92,000 


MEMBERS 
FAMILY 
PERSONS 
INSURED 


BENEFICIARIES 
PERSONS & 
INSURED 


c006£ S 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5011 


38 
. 
93 
. 
0001 


1 


34,05,000 


1.21,43,000---- 


35,46,000?11 


1,30,17,000 


13694,500 


1,37,62,550- 


TOTALBENEFICIARIES 


521.2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


LUOTT 


N2 & AMOUNT OF CASH BENEFIT PAYMENTS 


8,81,628 - 
19. 12.4 34 - 
16, 19 ,348 


1056 -61 
1960 - 61 
1965 - 66 
1966 -67 
1967- 60L 


( RUPEES IN LAKHS ) 
124 . 68 
310 . 07 

785 .02 

934 . 27 
- 

1,113 . 91 
AMOUNT 
PAID 


40,90 ,364 


43 42 ,378 


CASH BENEFIT 
PAYMENTS 


1 . 43 


1 - T2 


1 .27 


1 . 34 


PAYMENTS 
PER ANNUM 
PER 
EMPLOYEE 1966 - 67 


0 .80 


1960 - 61 


) 1965 - 66 


1966 - 67 


1967. 68 


34 . 80 


30 . 62 


26 . 59 


20 .86 


AMOUNT PAID 
PER ANNUM 
PER 
EMPLOYEE 1956 - 57 


12 . 49 


1980 - 61 


1965 - 66 


1960 -67 


1967 . 68 


Sec. 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5013 


CASH BENEFITS 

(Appendix XIII and XIV ) 
40 . Number of cash benefit payments (col. 4 of Appendix XIII ) 

40 , 1, Cash benefits are paid at the Local/Sub - Local / Pay Offices set up by the 
Corporation in different areas. The number of such Otices was about 478 on 31 
March 1968 as against 447 a year earlier . 

40 . 2 . The total number of cash benefit payments made in each State during the 
years 1966 -67 and 1967 - 68 is shown in column 4 , In all about 45 .68 lakhs pay 
ments ( including 6 , 285 claims relating to lump - sum payments in respect of requests 
for commutation of permanent disablement claims) were effected during the year 
1967- 68 . These were about 4 ,73 lakhs more than those during the preceding year. 
On the average, about 3 .81 lakhs payments were effected every month as against 
3 ,41 lakhs payments during 1986 -67. The number of payments per employee 
during 1967-68 works out to 1.43 as against 1. 34 during 1966 -67 . 
41. Sickness Benefit ( cols. 3 and 6 to 8 of Appendix XIII) . 

41. 1. As a result of the implementation of the benefit provisions of the Scheme 
in new centres between 1 July 1966 and 30 June 1967 and also due to the increase 
in employment in the already implemented areas, an additional 1, 40 , 850 employees 
became eligible for sickness benefit during the year under report. The total 
number of employees entitled to claim sickness benefit during 1967 - 68 is estimated 
at 31. 92 lakhs as against 30.51 lakhs last year ( vide column 3 ) . 


41. 2 . During the year , an amount of Rs. 838 ,53 lakhs was paid as sickness cash 
benefit as against Rs. 706. 04 lakhs in 1966 -67. The rise is principally due to (i ) 
the increase in the coverage, ( ii ) the increase in the incidence of sickness benefit, 
as measured by the average no . of benefit days per annum per employee , and also 
(141 the rise in the average amount of daily rate of benefit per employee. 

41. 3 . The average number of fresh spells per employee increased from 0 . 88 irr 
1966 -67 to 1.01 in 1967 -68 ; further , the average number of benefit days per arnum 
per employee also has shown an increase from 7. 7 in 1966 -67 to 8 . 2 in 1987 - 68 . 
The amount of daily rate of benefit per employee has registered an increase from 
Rs, 3 .01 to Rs. 3 ,22 due, perhaps, to an increase in the average wage- rate of the 
employees as also presumably to a shift in the incidence of sickness in relation to 
wage - groups. Thus we find that during the year , the sickness beneAt rate as 
measured by the average amount paid per annum per employee has registered an : 
increase , there being an increase in all the components leading to this rate , 

41.4 . As in the preceding years, this year also indicated wide variations among 
the States interse in respect of incidence and duration of sickness benefit claimg. 
The Director General has, however, been keeping continuous watch over the 
duration of sickness claims at various centres . The relevant statistics received 
at the Headquarters every month , are analysed periodically , and any abnormal 
variation in the trend is taken up with the Regional Directors and the Administra 
tive Medical Omcers with a view to enable them to take suitable and prompt 
remedial measures whenever necessary and wherever possible , 
42 . Extended Sickness Beneft (cols . 9 and 10 of Appendix XIII). 

42 . 1. Ingured Persons suffering from certain specified diseases e. g . tuberculosis , 
leprosy , mental and malignant diseases etc . ( in all 15 diseases ) are eligible for 
extended sickness cash beneflt at a rate equal to full gickness benefit rate , for a 
period of 309 days in addition to the 56 days of sickness benefit . 

42.2 . For the year 1967- 68 a sum of Rs. 82.94 lakhs was paid to insured persons 
on this account as against Rs. 64 . 87 lakhs in the previous year. The increase is 
mainly accounted for by an increase in the number of claims due to increased 
coverage and also increase in the average duration and daily rate of benefit claims. 

42 .3 . The incident of extended sickness benefit claims expressed as the number 
of claims per 1, 000 employees exposed to risk and also the duration of terminated 
claims are shown for the year 1967 -68 and 1966 - 67 in column 9 and 10 . These 
rates have shown a comparative increase during the year . 


43 , Maternity Beneft (colş . 11 and 12 of Appendix XIII) . 

43 , 1. The number of women employees eligible for maternity benefit has 
Increased from 2 ,02 ,200 in 1966 -67 to 2, 20 ,000 in 1967 -68. The total amount paid 


5014 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 (PART II — 


as maternity claimg was Rs. 40 . 54 lakhs as against Rs. 37.55 lakhs in 1966 - 67 . The 
average amount of cash benefit per maternity claim has increased from Rs, 267 in 
1966 -67 to Rs. 273 and this is possibly due to an increase in the average wages 
as also to a shift in the incidence of confinement vis - a -vis wage groups . 

43 .2 . The number of claims per 1, 000 insured women employees has decreased 
from 69. 5 in 1968 -67 to 67, 4 in 1967 -68 due possibly to variations in the age and 
marital status composition of the female employees; presumably the family 
planning drive also may have contributed to the decline, 


44. Temporary Disablement Beneft ( cols . 3 to 6 Appendix XIV ) 

During the year 1967 -68 the number of employees covered for disablement 
and dependant s benefit was 32 .81 lakhs as against 31. 60 lakhs during 1966 -67 
(vide col. 3 ) . The sum paid as temporary disablement benefit during 1967 - 68 was 
Rs. 93. 20 lakhs as against Rs. 80 .43 lakhs in 1986 -67. The average number of fresh 
spells, the number of benefit days per annum per employee and the average daily 
benefit rate are 0 . 05 , 0 .91 and 3 . 11 respectively as against the corresponding figures 
of 0 . 05 , 0 . 92 and Rs. 2 .77 in 1966 - 67 ( vide columns 4 to 6 ) . The average duration 
per spell has decreased from 18 .80 to 17 .08 , As in the last year, this year also 
recorded variations in different States in the incidence and duration of these 
claims. The incidence was high in Madras, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, 
while the duration of claims continued to be high in West Bengal and Madhya 
Pradesh . 


45 . Permanent Disablement Benefit (cols 7 to 10 of Appendix XIV ) 

45 . 1. The number of fresh cases admitted during the year 1967- 68 was 8 ,553 as 
against 7 ,401 during the previous year . The incidence per 1 ,000 insured employees 
was 2 .61 as against 2. 34 in 1966 -67 thus registering an increase . The States of 
West Bengal, Gujarat, and Delhi have experienced a comparatively high incidence , 

45 . 2 . The number of claimants on the Fund increased from 19 , 353 at the begin . 
ning of the year to 22 , 543 at the end (vide column 10 ) . The actual amount dis 
bursed as benefit was Rs. 95 .41 lakhs ( including the commuted lump sum of Rs. 
50. 88 lakhs) as against Rs. 71 , 80 lakhs ( including the commuted amount of 
R $ . 38 .30 lakhs) in 1966 -67. 

45 ,3 . The capitalised value of Permanent disablement benefit claims in respect 
of fresh cases admitted during the year was 149 ,81 lakhs as against Rs. 120 .53 lakhs 
in 1966 -67, The permanent Disablement Benefit Reserye Fund stood at Rs. 490 .73 
lakhs at the close of the year, the corresponding amount at the beginning of the 
financial year being Rs. 415 .92 lakhs. 

45 . 4 . The number of claimants to permanent disablement benefit who had opted 
for receipt of commuted value in lieu of periodic payments has increased from 
4 , 148 in 1986 -67 to 5 ,285 in 1987 - 88 . 


46 . Permanent Disablement Benefit Claim (Appendix XV ) 

46. 1. Analysis of the 8 ,553 cases of permanent disablement admitted during the 
year was made according to ( a ) the main groups of industry and ( b ) the incidence 
of claims per 1 , 000 employee exposed industry -wise , As in the last year, the 
highest number of accidents was recorded in " textile industry ” followed at a 
distance by " engineering " and " metallic minerals " . The incidence is rather high 
in "metallic minerals " , " textiles " and " engineering" and low in " food beverages 
and tobacco " " non -metallic minerals" , " paper and printing " and " chemicals and 
chemical products " . From a comparison of the corresponding incidence for the 
year 1986-67, it appears that the incidences in " chemicals and chemical products " , 
" non -metallic minerals " and " textiles " have gone up significantly this year ; the 
Incidences in " Food Beverages and Tobacco " and " Paper and Printing" have how 
ever, gone down . 

46. 2 . The average degree of permanent disablement experienced was 10 . 97 per 
cent as against 12 . 07 per cent for the last year The largest number of accidents 
occurred this year also in the sixth wage - group , i. e . between the daily wages of 
Rs. 4 and 6 . 


46 . 3 . The number of permanent digablement cases that arose among women 
employees is only 88, Expressed as a rate of incidence per women employee , 
this is significantly low presumably because women are not generally employed 
on hazardous occupations, duties etc . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5015 


47 . Dependants Benefit (cols , 11 and 12 Appendix XIV ) 

47. 1. The number of fresh claims admitted for dependants benefit during the 
year under review . increased from 262 in 1966 -67 to 279 ( vide columns 11 and 12 ) . 
Compared to the previous year the incidence is slightly higher. 

47.2 . The total number of dependants admitted during the year was 771 and 
the category -wise distribution of all the dependants at the beginning and end of 
the year is as follows: 


As on 31 March 


Description 


1967 


1968 


Widow 


1,439 


1,679 


Son and Daughter , 


2 ,546 


2 ,947 


114 


129 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Father . . . 
Mother . . . 
Other Dependant Children 

TOTAL , 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


193 


216 


124 


132 


. 


4 ,416 


5 , 103 


47. 3 . The amount paid as dependants benefit has increased from 11.94 lakhs in 
1966 -67 to Rs. 14 . 19 lakhs in 1967 -68. The capitalised value in respect of 
dependants benefit claims admitted during the year was Rs. 31.61 lakhs as against 
Rs. 32. 29 lakhs in 1966 - 67, The Dependants Benefit Reserve Fund stood at 
Rs. 185 . 47 lakhs on 31 March 1988 as against Rs, 160 . 36 lakhs on 31 March 1967. 


48. Income from Contributions 

The rates of employers special contribution and employees contribution 
continued to be the same as in the previous year viz . 25 per cent of wages for the 
Implemented areas , 3 4 per cent of wages for the non - implemented areas as 
employers special contribution and approximately 2 } per cent of the wages as 
emloyees contribution . The total amount collected during the year was 
Rs. 13 ,64 ,06 ,909 as employers special contribution and Rs . 12,44 ,28, 148 as employees 
contribution as against Rs. 12 ,93,37 , 103 and Rs. 11,50 , 80 , 309 as employers special 
contribution and employees contribution respectively collected during the previous 
year. 


49. Mode of Collection of Contributions 

The mode of collection of contributions employers special contribution and 
employees contribution remained unchanged, 18 new licences were issued during 
the year under report for the use of franking machine for franking contribution 
cards. One licence was cancelled and the total number of licences issued till the 
end of the year was 486 as against 469 at the end of the last year. 


50. Inspection 

During the year under report , the progress of the inspection work continued to 
be under close watch of the Headquarter Omce . The Inspectors continued to 
provide guidance and training to employers and their staff in maintaining records 
and complying with the various provisions of the E . S . I. Act and Regulations. 

At the end of the year there were in all 158 Insurance Inspectors . The total 
number of inspections carried out during the year 1967 - 68 was 19 ,517 as against 
17 ,665 during the year 1966 - 67 , 


51, Employees Insurance Courts . 

A list of the E .I. Courts set up during the year under Section 74 of the E .S .I. 
Act, 1948 in the implemented areas is given on next page . 


5016 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II - 


EMPLOYEES INSURANCE COURTS SET UP UNDER THE EMPLOYEES STATE 

INSURANCE ACT 


Name of State 


Areas for which E .I. Court set up 


Presiding Officer of the Court 
on whom the power to act as 
E . I. Court has been conferred . 


3 


Gujarat . 


, 


, Municipal limits of Bhavnagar town 

Taluka Bhavnagar, Distt , Bhavnagar Judge . 
Municipal limits of Morvi town , 

Taluka Morvi District Rajkot. . Judge. 


Haryana 


Gurgaon 
. . . . Subordinate Judge . Ist Claga 

Gurgaon . 
Rohtak and Bahadurgarh . . . Subordinate Judge , 1st Class , 

Rohtak , 
Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri . . Sub- Divisional Officer, Bhiwani 
Ambala and Pinjore . . . Subordinate Judge, Igt Class 

Ambala 
Faridabad , Mathura Road (Faridabad ) Subordinate Judge, Ballabh 
and Ballabhgarh 

garh . 


Maharashtra 


. 


. 


The areas within the Municipal limits 

of Nanded , comprising of the revenue 
village of Kasba Nanded , Mouja 
Assadullabad , and Moula Vazirabad 
and the Survey No. 8 ,9 , 44 / 1, 50 ,52 , 
60 / 1,60 /2 , 60 /3 and 60 , 14 of Mouja 
Brahmapuri in the Taluka and Dis - Clyil Judge, Senior Division , 
trict of Nanded 

Nanded . 
The limits of Kolhapur Borough Civil Judge , Senior Division 
Municipality In Kayir Taluka, Distt. Kolhapur. ?? 

Kolhapur . 
Area within the limits of Sangli Muni 

cipal council in the Taluka Miral, Civil Judge, Senior Division , 
District Sangli in the State of Maha - Sangli. 

rashtra . 
I . Area within the limits of Greater . Commissioner, for Workmen s 

Bombay Municipal Corporation Compengation , Bombay. 
2 . Arca within the limits of Thana , 

Kalyan , Bhiwandi and Bassein Talu 
kas of the Thana District, 


Mysore . 


. 


. 


Orissa 


. 


. 


. 


Punjab 


, 


. 


Anekonda , Nittuvalli Chik -Kanahally Presiding Officer, Labour Court , 
and Averagere 

Hubli. 
Village of Mathembeda Barbil in . District Judge , Mayurblian ) 

Tehsil Champakpur, P . S . Barbil in the Kaonjhar. 
District Kaonjhar. 
Abohar 

Sub - Judge . Fazílka . 
Bahadurgarh , . . 

Sub - Judge , Patiala . 

. 
Sirhind 

Sub - Judge , Amloh " 
Goraya & Phillaur. : 

Sub -Judge , Phagwara . 
Khanna . 

, Sub - Judge , Samrala . 
Churk , Araull, Mu ahiin Pargana 

Barhar , Tehøll Robertsganj in District 
of Mirzapur . , 

S . D . O . Robertsgan ). 
Areas within the Municipal limits of The Additional District Magio 
Ghazipur, 

trate ( Judicial),Ghazipur. 


Uttar Pigdesh 


. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5017 


52 . Legal Action 

The amount involved in respect of court cases instituted during the year as 
also the amount recovered under various sections of the E . S . I. Act, is shown 
region -wise in Appendix XVI. 


BUDGET AND FINANCE 
53. Financial and accounting arrangements 

53 . 1. The Revised Estimates for the year 1967 -68 and the Budget Estimates for 
the year 1968 -69 were adopted by the Corporation at its meeting held on 17 
February 1968 and approved by the Central Govrnment on 14 May 1988. * 

53 . 2 . The audit of the accounts of the Corporation has been entrusted by the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of 
India , to the Accountant General, Central Revenues . The latter conducts the 
audit through the respective State Accountants General acting as Sub -Audit 
Oficers. The consolidated Audit Report is prepared by the Accountant General, 
Central Revenues. The consolidated Audit Report for the year 1985 -66 on the 
accounts of E . S . I, Corporation was forwarded by the Accountant General, Central 
Revenues, to the Central Government on 28 June 1967 . The Audited Accounts 
for the year 1965 - 66 were laid on the Tables of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha 
on 15 and 16 February 1968 respectively . The consolidated Audit Report for the 
year 1966 .67 is still awaited from the Accountant General, Central Revenues . 
54. Banking Arrangoments 

Three new Banking accounts were opened during the year for Regional and 
Local Offices of the Corporation with the branches of the State Bank of India . 
Four accounts of the Local Offices and Sub - Local Offices of the Corporation were 
closed due to downgradation of these Omces . The total number of bank accounts 
with State Bank of India , its subsidiaries and United Commercial Bank Ltd ., stood 
at 304 as on 31 March 1968 . 

Arrangements for the sale of Employees State Insurance Contribution Stamps 
were made with additional 10 branches of the State Bank of India and its sub 
sidiaries during the period under report. The total number of branches handling 
the sale of contribution stamps was 288 ag on 31 March 1988 . 
55 . Investments 


There was a deficit of Rs. 41 lakhs during the year 1967-68 . As such expendi 
ture on Capital Account amounting to Rs. 447 . 11 lakhs incurred during the year 
was met out of the accumulated reserves of the previous years . Further , invest 
ments of accumulations in the various reserve funds were also made by trans 
ferring securities from the General Cash Balance . The net decrease in total. 
investment amounted , therefore , to Rs , 294 .62 lakhs ( approx . ) only . The total 
Investment ( including the investments relating to various Reserve Funds ) as on 31 
March 1963 stood at Rs. 16,48 ,01,634 -21 against Rs. 19,42 ,64 ,011•17 In the beginning 
of the year , 


Details of the investments are shown below :-- 


As on 31 - 3 - 1968 


As on 1 - 4 - 1967 

Rs. P . 


Rs. 


Securities of Central and State Governments in 
India . . 

. . 


. 


14 , 57, 31,630 . 1 % 


13 ,03, 59 , 574 . 21 


12 Years Postal Certificates 


74 , 24 ,000. 00 


7 ,32, 23, 000 . 00 


Fixed Deposits with the State Bank of India , New 

Delhi. 


4, 11,08 ,380 . 00 
19,42 ,64 ,01 1 17 


2 ,71, 19 ,780 . 00 
16 ,48,01,654 : 21 


TOTAL : . 


* These were laid on the Tables of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on 25 and 
26 July , 1968 respectively . 


5018 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


INCOME.EXPENDITURE & SURPLUS 


R .239- 61 
At 11: 54 


1955 - 1956 
| Rs . 4B4 : 48 

. Aigarh 


+ R9 .64.69 
CVR3. 51. 90 


# 1.224-25 


- * .44 .65 


- Rs .348 . 73 


Rr. 301-07 


R1.801-07 


1960 - 1961 
Rs .SA3 .39 


Rs. 2 + 8 .67 


Rr. 68 - 70 + 


R9. 245 


R . 175 . 62 - 


Rt . 100 -43 


Rs . 1039-70 - Y : : : 


R $ . 958 . 76 


1965 - 1966 
R . . 2 , 308 - 28 


R $ 102 . 48 - 


R . 885 . 61 


R9. 1167-19 


Rt . 243 . 39 


R & . 222 .63 


Rs.11 30 . 80 


Rs . 1.030 06 


1066 - 1967 
Rs. 2533 . 69 


LID 


R «.80- 52 


R $ 1125 - 13 


Rs.1.29357 


A , 261.98 


KL . 146 . 


2 


Rs.1 . 123 . 58 


Rs.1244. 287. 


1967 - 1968 
R5. 2,676 - 27 


11 


A . 01-02 
IJVENUE 
BLPICIT 
R $ 41 03 
A $ 1,564 . 07 


R6.1266 . 06 


l . 287 - 18 A 
+ Rs. 40 - 48 O 
A ADM . FXPENDITURE 
O HOSPITALS 4 DISPENSARIES 


HEN:PLOYEES CONTRIBUTION HOTHER 
BE IDYER S CONTRIBUTION 


INCOME 


REVENUE SURPLUS CASH OTHER BENEFITS 
111 MEDICAL BENEFIT 2 ADM . EXPENDITURE 


SEÇ . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5019 


LT. - - + +LU 


- 


- 


. . . - 


- 


LFV 


-ZTNAT 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE 


PERCENTAGE OF 
TOTAL BENEFITS 
( EXCLUDING MED . BENEFIT ) 


RUPEES PER 
INSURED 
IMPLOYEE 


RUPEES PER 
CASH BENEFIT 
PAYMENTS 


1956 
1957 


4 .62 
RUPEES 


5 . 73 
RUPEES 


35 .84 


1960 
1961 


6 . 11 
RUPEES 


5 . 25 
RUPEES 


28.80 


1965 
1966 


7 . 43 
RUPEES 


6 . 14 
RUPEES 


25 -13 


1966 
1967 


8 . 29 
RUPEES 


6 . 40 
RUPEES 


23 .281 


1967 
1968 


8 . 75 
RUPEES 


6 . 29 
RUPEES 


5020 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II – . 


- - - - - 


- . 


56 . Income and Expenditure Account and Balance Sheet 

The Income and Expenditure Account of the Corporation for the year 1966 - 67 
is given in Appendix XVII. 

The Balance Sheet of the Corporation as on 31 March 1967 , as certified correct 
by the Auditors of the Corporation , is given in Appendix XVIII . 

The Income and Expenditure Account for the year 1967 -68 and the Balance 
Sheet of the Corporation as on 31 March 1968 are given in Appendices XIX to XX . 
These are still to be audited by the External Auditors. 
57. Relative Cost of Adminlstration 

The statement at Appendix XX shows the relative cost of administration since 
the year 1952 -53. The statement below shows the comparative cost of administra 
tion per insured employee during the last four years from 1964 -65 to 1967- 88 , 
1964 -65 , 

. Rs. 7 . 07 per ingured employee 
1965-66 , . 

. , Rs. 7 . 43 per insured employecs 
1966 -67 , 

Rs. 8 . 29 per insured employee 
1967 - 68 . . . . . . Rs. 8 . 75 per insured employee. 


Definitions of the terms Employee , Insured Persons and Beneficiaries 

( a ) The number of employees as on a specified date is the estimated number 
of effective posts in the factories covered under the Scheme. This would broadly 
represent the average number of employees per day employed by the factories 
round about that date and normally may not vary significantly from the number 
or employees actually employed on that date . It should , however , be noted that 
the actual number of persons who have occupied a particular sanctioned post 
during a period may be more , in as mush as a leave reserye or badli worker may 
have officiated temporarily during absence , leave etc . of a regular worker . 

( b ) The number of insured persons on any date indicates for purposes of this 
Report , the number of persons who may be deemed to be entitled to medical 
benefit on such date . Further , the number of insured persons on any day would 
normally be in excess of the number of employees as on that day because , under 
the eligibility conditions for medical benefit under the Act, the persons entitled to 
medical benefit on any day would compromise not only the persons actually 
employed on that day but also the ex - employees , who by virtue of the contribu 
tion conditions during the period earlier to that would be entitled to such benefit 
on that date . 

( c ) The total number of beneficiaries on any date represents all the persons 
who may be deemed to be entitled to medical benefit under the Scheme on that 
date . It comprises the incured persons and where medical benefit has been 
extended to families of insured persons, the number of their families. The total 
number of members of the family of Insured persong (not including the insured 
person ) is arrived at by assuming an average of 2 . 88 members for each insured 
pergon , 

APPENDIX I 
Important decisions taken by the Employees State Insurance Corporation during 

the year 1967 -68 
(1) 12 April 1967 
1 . It decided that dental clinics may be established at the E . S . I. Hospitals 

with a bed strength of 50 or more and at the Dlagnostic Centres 

where possible. 
2. It accepted the proposal to the expansion of training programme of nurség 

and auxiliary midwives . 
3 . It decided to appoint a Sub - Committee to consider raise of Employers 

Special Contribution . 
( ii) 18 November 1967 
1 . It accepted the recommendation of the Sub - Commlttee to increase the rate 

of Employers Special Contribution in implemented areas to 3 per cent 
of the total wage Bill with effect from 1st April 1968. 


SEC. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5021 


2 . It decided that repair / replacenient of artificial teeth supplied by the 

Corporation in Employment Injury cases may be allowed at the sole 
cost of the Corporation and also decided to the replacement of glasses 
in Employment Injury cases where there is subsequent change in the 

power of lens. 
3 . It agreed to the provision of medical care in the E . S .I. Medical Institutions 

to non - covered employees of the covered undertakings in sparce areas 
where no other medical arrangements for non covered employees exist 
and their families on payment. 


(lit ) 17 February 1968 


1. It decided to appoint a Şub -Committee to review the financial position of 

the E .S . I, Corporation . 


APPENDIX II 
Important decision taken by the Standing Committee during the year 1967 - 68 


17 November 1967 
It decided that domiciliary conveyance allowance of Re, 1 per visit may be 

paid even where the total number of visits is less than 10 in a month , 
to full - time as well as part - time Insurance Medical Officers . 


APPENDIX UI 


Important recommendations of the Medical Benefit Council during the year 1967 -68 
12 June 1967 


( i) A nominal charge of 15 paise should be charged 

bottles issued to the beneficiaries. 


for the new empty 


(ii) Repair / replacement of artificial teeth at the sole cost of the Ccrporation 

if the artifcial teeth had been in use for a period of 5 years and needed 
repair / replacement due to wear and tear , 


( it ) Rchabilitation Programme under the E .SI, Scheme might be started at 

Bombay , Calcutta , Madras and Kanpur. The State Government might 
be requested to send necessary proposals in this respect. 


( iv ) A store -keeper should be provided in & dispensary where stock and 

equipment worth more than Rs, 20 ,000 were held . 


( v ) For less than 10 visits per month , domiciliary conveyance allowance at 

a flat rate of Re, 1 per visit might be paid to full time and part- time 
Insurance Medical Omcers all over the Country . The existing scale 
in this respect should remain the same for 10 or more domiciliary 
visits . 


( vi ) A sub - committee consisting of the following members was constituted to 

go into the question of diseases to be included for the grant of 

Extended Sickness Benefit: 
Dr. C . B . Singh 

Chairman 


Dr. P , M , Bhandarkar Member 
Dr, H . N , Shivpuri 

Member 
Dr. J, K , Thanawala Member 
(vii ) It recommended thc proposal of the Government of Madras to provide 

caesum unit and deer X - ray Therapy Unit in the Employces State 
Insurance Hospital, Madras. 


5022 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II. 
SASS = = = SSSS = 2 

= = 

APPENDIX 


PART 


ESIC Staff authorised as on 


Designation of posts Hqrs .Andhra Assam 

Pradesh 


Bihar 


Delhi Gujarat Kerala 


RO LO RỌ LO RO LO RO LO RO LO RO LO 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 II 


12 


13 


14 


-สาะห์) 


llll 


HHRUHHHHH 
ma 
moc 
N 


II. 


lll 
U 


illlllllllllllllll1"1111 


In 


I 


2 


II 


I , Director General . 
2 . Ingurance Commissioner, 

Medical Commissioner. 
F . A .& C . A . 0 . 
Actuary . . . . 
Principal Eng. Cfficer. . . 
Director of Administration , . 
J . I. C . R . D . Grade . . 

Offlcer on Sp . Duty . . 
10 . R . D . Grede II . 

D . I. C . A . 0 ./ R . D , Gr. III 
12 . Dy. Chief Accounts Oficer , . 

Dy. Medical Commissioner . 5 
14 . R . D . Gr, IV / A . I . C ./Dy, A . O . 

D . R .D ./Asgt . Actuary . 

Asstt , Medical Commissioner . 2 
16 . Medical Referee , . 
17 . A . A . O . . 

. .. . . 3 
18 . A .R .D ./Manager Gr, I/S .O . 21 

Dy. A . A . 0 , 
19. P . S . to D . G . · · 

Ins. Inspector /Audit Inspector/ — 

Mgr . Gr. JI/Dy. Manager , 

Personal Assistant, . . 9 
22 . Assistant /Head Clerk , 
23 . 

Technical Asstt. . 
24 . Artist , 
25. Care Taker . . 
26 , Receptionist, 

Librarian . . 
U .D .C. 1/C/UDC -Cashjer/UDC59 
Stenographer . . . 

IS 
L . D . C ./Adrema Operator / 

Telephone Operator, 
31. Computor . · · · 
32 . 

Staff Car Driver , . 

Gest . Operator. . . 
34 . Junior Lib . Attendant, 
35. Record Sorter/ Daftry . 

Jamadar . . 
Peon , 

Chowkidar . 
39. Faragh , . 
40 . Sweeper . - 
41. Liitman , . 
42 . Mali , 


I 


U 

illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll-ininillo Illllllllllll 

lllllllllllls|Film lllllllllllja1Ullllll~111NIMANF-Slll| 

--15 

"1"111 Illlllllllll!!11-JALUTina111151Lill 

MINIT 

illl Tillajuliami1 

Illaisill!l. 11|1n1illlllllll 

|l1MARTI !!!!***- 

lll ll | 


I 


- 


I 


21 . 


llllllwill 
wlolllllll 
wl 
lll 


1 - [ - 2 - 
| 30 13 41 23 103 58 64 


nililletilfelli 


1 


11111iill 


37. 


нявно 


... 


SII 


34 


- 


20 
312 


Total 


54 
1412 


2421 


12 


WWNA 


6386 


S 


--- 


Illlllllll|||1110 


111STTUTTI 


Uttar West 
Pradesh Bengal 


-- 


- zp91Z] 

-- 


-- 


Rajas - 
than 


- 


9 
47 41 133 I6I 

- 

3 

17 
8 62 18 25 TO 101 48 309 250 

- 
1 

13 

- 
30 22 

2 
- 


... . 


-- 


Punjab 


-- 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA !4, 1891 5023 


19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 


-- 


Orissa 


13 


O LO RO LO RO SRO LO RO LO RO LO LO RO LO RO LO RO LO 


--- 


Mysore 


IT111-IIIliim 

TITLULEjull-!!Inam19SillimiI-IIE^-}|IT!!!Tijili1*HITELOTUE*|||11 

IminillinenIl-6---fl.I llllll||liiliislllS!!!SIFUllIillll|||||-*-||ll|ITSHMIT 

11111111111111+11|!1130!IMIUITIlllllllllllllllll^!!!!| 

IMMMITullilul!TNIA 

111HIINIILUTIILITIT"]INJAILT]-1-1}[11l1||11|||||UTDon 

illegaleun 

|||||1111|llllllllllin!]!!-TilimiMaa||| 

ill,Tuinofatto|11|-|MMUIIIllllllllltKlilllll|||1|||!!!|||||“*** 

LITE1^-MMIillu ||!a11.11:llery| 

T*ILIITini!TTT-||--Innnell19||11:10---|| 


-- 


--- 


--- 


7-I8 99ALTIJTOE901971teTV 

- 

- 


= 


rashira 
Mudhya Madras Maha - 
Pradesh 


31st March 1968 


= 


15 16 17 18 


=- 


IV 


5024 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART 1 - - 


APPENDIX IV 

PART II 


Statement showing the position of Staff Authorised an in position in respect of the 

Director s Office and E . S . I. Dispensarico al onfyrst March , 1968 . 


Director s Office 


E . S. I, Dispen 

Saries . 


Total 


Designation of posts, 


Autho - 
rised 


in 
position 


Autho - 

riscd 


In Autho - In 
position rised . position 


I 1 
І І 
II 

I 1 
107 99 
3 3 


· 
· 


11111115118- 


40 


39 


. 


1 


97 


Io6 


1 . Director Medical. . . 
2 . Admn, Medical Office : 
3 . Dy. Accounts Officer , 
4 . Asstt, Accounts Officer ( M ). 
5 . Ing. Medical Officer Gr. I. 
6 . Ing.Medical Officer Gr. II . 
7 . Audit Inspector. · · 
8 . Head Clerka. · · · 
9 . P .A . To Director (M ) . 
10 . Upper Division Clerks. . 
II, Stenographers, 
12 . U . D . C . Cashier. . . 
13. Lower Division Clerks. 
14 . Pharmacists . . . 
15. Social Guide, · · 
16. Nurse ./A / B /Grade. . 
17. Nurse /Midwife. . 
18 . Lady Health Visitor . 
19 . Dal. . . . . 
20 . Lab , Tech . 

. 
21, Radiographer . . . 
22 . Drivers. · · 
23. Daftries . 
24 . Gestetner Operatoor . 
25. Peony.. . . . . 
26 . Dresser . · · · 
27. Ayas. . . . . 
28 . Ambulance Attendant, 
29 . Sweeper /swcepress. . . 
30 . Chowkidars . · · 


.:.: 1111!1 


106 

3 
41 
28 
28 


80 
1 
37 
26 
27 


3 
41 
28 


23 


26 


22 


24 


26 


4 


.:.:.:.:. 

!**a! 


55 


47 


57 


52 


- 


- 


38 
3 
76 
26 


37 

2 
76 
24 


3 
76 
26 


2 
76 
24 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5025 


= 


- 


- 


APPENDIX V 


Number of factories and Employees covored ugder the E . S . I. Act 

During1967 -68 STATE - WISE 


State 


Implement Area 


Non -Implemented Area All Areas 


No. of 
Factories 


No. of No. of 
Employees Factories 

As on 
31- 3 - 68 


No . of No. of No . of 
Employees Factories Employees 
as on 

ag on 
31- 3 -68 

31 - 3 -68 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


553 


1,15,400 


Andhra Pradesh 
Assam , . 
Bihar . 


, 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


36 
37 


7,700 
17,650 


173 


28,200 


517 
136 
305 
801 


1,07,700 

10,550 
58,000 
91,000 


133 13 / 


1,05 ,700 


438 


1,63,700 


Delhi , 


801 


91,000 


966 


2 , 79 , 100 


627 


1, 20 ,850 


Gujarat . 
Kerala . . 
Madhya Pradesh 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


852 


1,40 ,900 


2 * 


. 


IOI 


12 ,800 
57,000 
33,500 


. 


1,593 3 ,99 ,950 
854 * 1,53 ,700 

444 1,52,050 
1,834 3, 58,200 
4 ,400 78,70 ,600 


Madras 


211 


. 


Mihurashtra . 


. 


343 
1,623 
4, 124 
505 
98 


95 ,050 
3,24,700 
8 ,07 ,600 
1,68 ,000 

29 ,100 


. 


63,000 


Mysore 


09 


20, 100 


664 


. 


1,96 , 100 

55 ,900 


Orissa 


. 


. 


39 


25,800 


1 37 


Punjab , Haryana , 
Himachal Pradesh and 


Chandigarh 


1 ,676 


1,74 , 350 


Rajasthan , 
Uttar Prades 
West Bengal , 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


28157,900 
1,254 2,45,050 
3,221 8,02, 100 


32 
37 
98 


9,850 
4,700 
23 ,350 
96 ,150 


1, 706 
3 13 
1,291 
3,319 


1,84 ,200 

62,600 
2,68,400 
8 ,98,250 


ALL - INDIA ( 1968) 


16,762 


33,91, 100 


1,758 


6,07, 150 


18 ,520 


39,98,250 


ALL -INDIA ( 1967) 


15, 874 


32, 12 , 400 


1,923 


6 ,35,850 


87,797 


38 ,48 ,250 


* % 3:s no: inciui : ayout 2 ) Cashew fac:ories excinpted upto " A Day 


5026 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - 

- -- 
APPENDIX VI 


S 


. 


Number of Centres , Employees , Insured Persons Family ( Insured Person ) Units and 

Boneficlarles covered as on 31 . 3 . 1968 - STATE -WISE 


Slate 


No of No. of 
Centres Employees 


No. of 
Insured Person 


No. of No. of 
Family Beneficiaries 
(Insured 
Person ) units 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Andhra Pradesh 


Assam 


Bihar . . 
Delhi , . 
Gujarat . 
Kerala . . 
Madhya Pradesh , 
Madras 
Maharashtra , 
Mysore 

. . 
Orissa . . . 
Punjab , Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh and 

Chandigarh . . 
Rajasthan . . 
Uttar Pradesh , , 
West Bengal . . 


1,07 ,700 

13 , 550 
58 , 000 

91,000 
2 ,79, 100 
1,40, 900 

95 ,050 
3 ,24 ,700 
8 ,07, 600 
1, 68 , 00 
29 , 100 


1, 15 , 000 
12 ,500 

63, 500 
1 , 19 , 000 
3 , 16 ,000 
1 , 50 , 000 
1 ,01,000 
3 ,36, 500 
8 , 28 , 500 
1,78 ,500 

32 , 500 


1 , 14 , 300 

12 , 50 
63 , 500 
1 , 19 , 000 
2 ,85, 850 
1 , 37 -350 
1,01, 000 
2 ,04 ,650 
18, 28 ,500 
1 ,73,050 

31, 000 


4 ,44 ,200 

48 , 500 
2 , 46 ,400 
4 ,61,700 
11 ,39 , 250 

5 ,45 ,550 
3 ,91, 900 
9 ,25,900 
32 , 14. 550 
6 ,76 , 9004 
1,21 ,800 


. 


13 


1 , 74 ,350 

$ 7 .900 
2 , 45 ,050 
8,02 , 100 


1, 79 ,000 

68 ,500 
2 ,65,500 
9, 18,500 


1,76, 100 
68 , 500 

2 ,65, 500 
9 , 18 , 5c0 


, 
. 


34 
26 


6 , 86 , 150 
2 ,65,800 
10 ,30 , 150 
35 ,63,800 


. 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ALL - INDIA ( 1968) 


300 


33 ,91, 100 


36 ,84 ,500 


34,99 ,300 


1,37 ,62, 550 


ALL -INDIA ( 1967) 


273 


32 , 12 ,400 


35,45,000 


32,88,750 


130 ,16 ,600 


APPENDIX VI 


Number of beds, Specialists and Ambulances as on 31- 3 -68 


- 


- 


- 


. 


- 


Number of beds provided 
E . S . I. Hospitals 

Annexes 

Other Hospitals Total Specialists 
Gene- Mater - T . B . Gen - Mater T .B . Gene - Mater - T .B . Part Full - Am 
ral nity eral nity ral nity 

Time Time bu 

lances 


State 


Remarks 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


H10 


. 


. . 


25 


7 


24 


So 


14 


. . 


. . 
. 


11 
18 


23 


: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 
: 


32 


SBC.3(il)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,18915027 


141 


38 $ 17 
- 24 

160 

170 
249 

471 
147 
320 

438 
174 J020 


so 


2 % Out of 30 beds, 5 
17 beds viz . for families 

3 of insured persis ant 
3 one for non - insura 
2 persons are being utiliser 
2 on payment of reservation 
6 charges hy the Employer . 
14 


12 


I Andbra Pradesh , . . 300 
2 Assam 
Bihar 

630 + 76 
4 Delhi , 
5 Gujarat , 
6 Haryana , 
7 Kerala 
Madhya Pradesh , 

150 
Madras , 
Maharashtra - 

( a ) Gr. Bombay , 612 
(1 ) Nagpur Area , 
( c) Western Maharashtra . . 


12 


Ooovon 


35 


190 

43 
128 
II6 
II2 


010 


90 
77 


n 


II 


86 


475 


1 


23 


. 


10 


137 


€ 


IZ 


535 
15 
48 


1434 
108 
J12 


12 
I 


64 


II 
23 


2 


14 Hospitals ;Maternity 
Homes recognised for con 
finernent of insured vo 
man @ Rs.52 - 50 per 
confinement if the stay 
is less than 7 days & 
Rs. 60 ,- if the stay is more 
than 7 days. 


. 


. 


. 


272 


10 


IS 


.. 


32 


-17 


17 


16 


39 


434 


29 


3 


272 
. 


8 


10 
. . 


18 
. 


.. 
" 


12 


. 


.. 


I2 


It Mysore . 
12 Orissa 
J3 Pondicherry 
14 Punjab 
15 Rajasthan . 
16 Uttar Pradesh 
17 West Bengal 


" 


23 


23 


j2 


9 


69 


1 269 . ? 


JZ 
31 


17 


+ 


312 


123 45 

82 10 
492 . 
2083 * 302 


je 
180 
100 


: 


312 
· 1057 


IYO 


. 

10 
. . . 


14 
. 
. . 


se 


i 
. 


. 


341 


2 


583 


3 
10 * These are specialists Unis 


TOTAL 3383 


36 


518 


168 


21 


249 1525 


240 


2020 8220 9883 


57 


98 


SI. 
No. 


State 


Remarks 


13 


liw 


I Andhra Pradesh , 
2 Assam 
3 Bihar 
4 Delhi 
Ś Gujarat . 


75 


191 


i36 


APPENDIX VII 
No. of State Iasurance Dispensaries , Panel Doctors etc. as Ơn 31- 3 - 1969 

Total number of Total Total No. 

Insurance Medi - number of doc - Approved Che 
Dispensaries 

cal Officers of Lasu - tors in mists /Med . 

rance Employ - Stores /Depots 
Full Part Mobile Empl- Total Sanc- Present Medical ers Dis 
Time Time 

" ayers tioned 

Practi- pensaries 

tioners 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 

12 
2 .. 57 140 135 . . 

2 IMed . Store 
11 10 

i Med Store 
14 . . 39 82 
IIS 107 

. . I Med . Store 
287 

14 Chemists 

8 Medical Stores 
6 14 Chemists 

2 Medical Stores 
142 137 

. I Medical Store 
137 109 

3 15 Chemists 
230 

23 6 Medical Stores 
2 .. . 3 5 5 

. 109 Chemists 

7 Medical Stores 
16 

3 Chemists 

I Medical Store 
S .. 

3 19 . Chemists 

2 Medical Stores 
171 

29 4 Medical Stores 

i Medical Store 

I Medical Store 
34 

38 Chemists 

I Medical Store 
2 12 Chemists 
. . 2 Chemists 


39 


22 


8 Haryana . . 
Ź Kerala 
Ś Madhya Pradesh 
9 Madras 
10 Maharashtra 

(a ) Gr. Bombay 
(5 ) Nagpur . 

(c) Sholapur . 
11 Mysore . 
12 Orissa 


-:-- 


5028THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891(PARTII 


- 


::::::::*::: 


7 


52 


14 


27 


Ambulance Van 
mobīle dispensary . 


13 Pondicherry 
14 Punjab 


15 Rajasthan 
IÓ Uttar Pradesh 


: 


NO 


120 


Belas haradesh 
17 West Bengal 

TOTAL 


. 
. 


75 

. 
536 


a 
.. 
45 



4 
35 


de 

+ 
641 


126 
.. 
1618 


.. 
1373 


1795 
4101 


17 281 Chemists 
85 507 Chemists 


23 Medical Stores 


25 


61 Medical Stores 


APPENDIX LX 
Incidence of Dispensary Attendances , References to Hospitals and No. of Home Visits during 1966 - 67 

and 1967 -68 - STATE - WISE (In respect of insured Persons and their Family Members) 


State 


Period 


Insured Persons 


Family (I. P .) Units 


No . of Attendances 
Per 1000 lasured 
Persons per annum 


No . of Cases referred 

to Hospital for 


No, of 
Home 

Visits 


No. of Attendances 
Per 1000 Family (I . P .) 

Units per annum 


No. of 
Kome 
Visits 


New 
Cases 


Old 
Cases 


Admission 


Specialists 
in vestigation 


Nek : 
Cases 


Old 
Cases 


9 


10 


84 


1966 -67 
1967-68 
1966 -67 @ 
1967 -68 * 
1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966 -67 
1967 - 68 
1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


3,365 
3 , 152 
3 , 249 
2 , 996 
2 , 839 
2 , 921 
1 , 183 
I , III 
1, 578 
1 , 729 
3 , 193 
4 , 045 


15 ,634 
14, 975 

5 ,770 
4 , 563 
7 , 133 
6 , 843 
9 , 137 
8 , 531 
5 , 341 
12 ,008 
2 ,786 
4 , 871 


6 ,076 
5 ,807 
2 , 595 
2 , 280 
5 ,283 
4, 882 
3 ,536 
3, 551 
1, 894 
2 , 998 
4,693 
6 ,819 


18 ,311 
16 ,749 

3 ,068 
2 ,480 
10 ,885 
9 ,214 
7 ,410 
7 ,310 
6 , 916 
17 ,346 
3 ,914 
6 ,635 


16 ,038 
20 , 595 

231 

146 
6 , 309 
8, 183 
22,774 
27, 168 
12 , 186 
8 ,219 
2 , 448 
2 ,857 


Andhra Pradesh , (SS ) 
Assam 

(SS ) 
Bihar 

( SS ) 
Delhi 

OS) 
Gujarat 

(SS) 
Gujarat (PS) 
Haryapa & 

Chandigarh (SS ) 
Haryana & 

Chandigarh (PS ) 
Kerala . (SS ) 
Madhya Pradesh (SS ) 
Madras 

( SS ) 
Madras (PS ) 


973 41,876 

12, 842 
1 ,028 44 ,426 15 .731 
61 2 , 137 1, 956 
1 ,396 

4 ,315 
1 ,671 10 , 117 

8 ,633 
2 ,041 11 , 068 8 ,007 
1 , 131 12 ,301 12 ,089 
1 , 145 15 , 871. 12 ,752 
1 ,826 42, 874 29 , 191 
7 , 132 67 ,368 6 , 861 

594 15 , 110 3, 081 
1 , 043 15 , 627 

2 ,656 
-Figures included in Punjab (SS ) 

4 ,621 6 3441 4 ,884 
- Figures included in Punjab (PS ) + 

1 ,711 10 ,208 3, 783 
5 ,217 13 , 858 16 ,984 
4 ,997 14 , 49 16 ,348 
3 , 253 55 , 896 

12 , 563 
3 , 767 50 ,652 12 , 928 
14 ,876 87,693 

454 
16 , 216 1,07 ,510 1 , 172 
7, 157 23 , 105 1401 
6 ,974 22,055 1 ,425 


Sec.3(II)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,18915029 


1966- 67 
1967 - 68 


2 , 10 


5 ,644 


2 , 515 


5 ,741 


7 ,983 


1966 - 67 

1967 -68 
1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967- 68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


5 ,033 
2 , 825 
3 , 304 
2 , 719 
2 ,621 
2 ,463 
2 , 361 
4 ,088 
3 ,800 


8 , 750 
9 , 796 

9 ,695 
18,245 
16 , 820 
9 ,213 
9 , 142 
9 , 112 
8 ,918 


5 , 228 
2 , 326 
2 , 913 
8 , 176 
6 ,807 
3 ,431 
2 ,982 
6 , 208 
6 , 860 


9 ,034 
7 , 173 
7 , 679 
26 , 305 
20 , 747 
9 , 355 

8 ,084 
12 , 728 
12 ,195 


2 , 661 
2 ,242 
1, 224 
10 ,412 
11 ,404 
2 ,677 
3 ,055 

298 
263 


I 


886 


804 


Maharashtra 

Bombay GR (SS ) 
( 11) Bombay Gr. (PS ) 
(in Nigpur Area( SS) 
(10 ) Nagpur Area (PS) 
Mysore 

(55 ) 


4 , 750 


7497 
6 , 063 
6 , 962 
6 , 567 
13 , 744 
14 , 251 

5 , 660 
5 ,643 
8 ,529 
7 ,837 


13442 
4 ,617 
4 , 573 
2 ,687 
2 , 437 
4 , 598 
4 ,530 
4 ,697 
4 ,227 


5 ,911 
5 , 667 
2 , 917 

2 , 851 
18 , 114 
18 ,879 
7 , 367 


4 , 590 


6 ,668 
3 , 145 
3 ,742 


39 


87 


866 


5 , 985 


25 
9 , 991 
7 ,093 


8 , 958 
8 ,377 


5 ,881 


Mysore 


Orissa 
Punjab 
Punjab 


1966- 67 
1967 -68 $ 
1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -63 
1966 -67 
1967 -684 
1966 -67 
1967- 68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 
1966 67 
1967 -68 
1966- 67 
1967 -68 
1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966- 67 
1967- 68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


(PS) 
(SS) 
(SS) 
(PS) 
(SS ) 
(SS ) 
(PS) 


393 


6 ,432 @ 

319 
19 , 2797 230 

1 ,976 
1 , 118 99,811 19 , 121 

2 ,312 
1 , 517 1,03,514 18 ,758 2 , 278 
1 ,766 10 ,986 15 , 471 
1 , 145 23 , 263 15 , 776 4 , 248 
So 1 ,037 

6 , 487 
113 

5 , 840 
6 , 315 36 , 620 17 , 552 

6 ,210 
6 , 302 37 , 850 14 , 860 
Figures included in Mysore (SS ) - 
3 ,718 

818 2 ,841 
1, 041 3 ,030 

7 , 121 3 , 2 ,12 
839 5 , 635 4 ,775 

3 ,816 
1 ,814 12 , 323 9 , 194 2 , 854 
324 4 ,328 2 ,099 

3 ,650 
5423 15 , 542 20 , 746 4 ,796 
10 ,685 

6 ,762 15 ,339 4 , 515 
1 ,944 16 , 365 

3 , 550 3 ,873 
2 , 125 18 ,810 2 ,960 3 , 662 
3 ,482 36 ,382 

3 , 076 

2 ,486 
4433 87,368 5 , 127 2 , 113 
6 ,894 76 , 316 79,210 

2 ,542 
5 ,675 93 ,826 1 ,04 ,472 

4 ,681 


3 , 261 
2 ,258 
3 ,373 
2 , 961 
3 , 838 
4 ,639 
4 ,055 
2 , 592 
2 ,600 
2 , 498 
2 ,647 
4 , 539 
3 ,867 


5 ,651 
7 , 541 
6 , 505 
6 , 808 
8 ,672 
6 ,429 
4 , 888 
8 ,299 
8 ,383 
7 ,302 
7 , 767 
5 , 902 
4 , 204 


Rajasthan 
Uttar Pradesh 
West Bengal 


3 , 164 
5 , 569 
7 , 133 
6 , 306 
6 ,887 
6 , 358 
4 , 670 
9 ,716 
9 , 862 
6 , 781 
6 , 899 
1 , 475 
2 , 698 


770 
III 
1 ,257 
6 ,827 

847 
2 ,873 
1 , 942 
1 ,850 

1 , 519 
15 , 800 
17 ,882 
26 ,694 
30 ,591 


-5030THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891[PARTII 


ALL - INDIA 


1966-67 @ 
1967 -68 


3 , 427 
3 ,292 


73,008 
1 ,03 , 863 


6 , 13, 728 2 , 74 ,276 
7 ,52 ,8112 , 75 , 919 


7 . 950 


3 . 327 
3 , 715 


6727 
7 ,869 


1 , 19 ,571 
1, 66 , 094 


- 


- 


- 


@ Figuresbrought upto date . 
* Figures for September , 67 to March , 68 not received ; weighted average taken . 
SFigures for November ,67 and March ,68 not received , weighted average taken . 
£Figures for March , 68 not received ; weighted average taken . 

Doesnot indude cases referred to hospital for admission under generaland maternity treatmentfor the months of January 
to March , 68 . 
SS - Service System ; PS - Penel Systen . 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/ KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5031 


- . - w 


- 


_ - 


- - - - 


- 


APPENDIX X 


Incidence of Morbidity i. e . number of new cases per 1000 I.Ps, and 7000 Family (I. P .) 

Units 1966 - 67 and 1967 -18 - - ALL - INDIA 


Cause 
Group 


Insured Persons 


Families 


Discase 


No . 


1966 -67 1967 -68 1966 -67 1967-68 


3 


4 


5 


6 


14 . 5 

5 . 1 
5 : 0 


12 . 8 
6 .2 
4 . 3 

7 : 2 
2461 


12 . 0 
5 .8 
2 . 4 


12 : 1 
6 . 9 
1. 9 

4 : 1 
243 : 3 


7 . 9 


72 


4 . 0 


217 . 4 


295 . 4 


15. 8 


18 . 9 


22 . 5 


30 . 2 


I : 1 


36 . 6 


ooooN 


. 


. 


.. 


1 T . B . of respiratory system . . . . . 
2 T . B . other forms , , , 
3 Syphilis and its sequelac . , , 
4 Gonococcal infection . . . . 
5 Dysentery , all forms] . 

. 
6 Cholera, Enteric fever, other infective diseases arising 

in intestinaltract , , , , , , 
7 . Scarlet fever , Diptheria , Whooping Cough , Measles , 

Mumps, Chicken -pox . . . . . 
8 Typhus and other rickettsial diseases . . . 

Malaria . . . . . 
IQ Filariasis , Ankylostomiasis and other Helminths 
II AU other discases classified as infective and parasitic , 
12 Malignant neoplasms all sites ) 
13 Benign neoplasms all sites . . 
14 Allergic disorders 

, , , , , 
IS Discascs of Thyroid gland . 
16 Diabetes mellitus 
17 Avitaminosis and other deficiency states . 
18 Anacmlas . 
19 Psychoneuroges and Psychoses , 
20 Vascular Lesiones C . N . S . . . 
21 Diseases of eye . , 

Diseases of car and Mostoid process 
23 Rheumatic feyer , , , , , 
24 Chronic Rheumatic heart discascs 
25 Arteriosclerotic and degencrative heart diseases 
26 Hypertensive discases 
27 Discascs of Veins . , 
28 Acute nasopharyngitis ( Common Cold ) 
29 Acute Pharyngitis and tonsillitis 
30 Influenza . . . . . . 

. 
31 Pneumonia , 
32 Bronchitis , 
33 Silicosis and occupational pulmonary fibrosis . 
34 Olher respiratory . , , , 
35 Diseases of stomach and duodenum , , , 
36 Appendicitis . . . . . . . 
37 Hernia of abdominal cavity . . . . . 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


13 . 4 16 . 2 36 . 6 45 . 0 
0 . 5 - 0. 7 

0 . 9 
17 .6 15 . 2 153 
36 - 1 
50 -3 46 . 5 
0 .4 0 . 7 0 .6 1. 0 
1.2 1.2 0 .8 0 . 7 
803 80 . 6 77 . 6 88 . 8 
1 . 7 1 . 7 2 

0 2 - 1 
4 .8 4 . 1 3 .3 3 .4 
143. I 141. 7 127 3 14906 

93 . 1 91 5 117 . 8 131 : 7 
- 2 .3 2 . 6 - 2 .5 - 3 .2 
0 . 0 . 6 

0 . 5 

0 - 6 
103 . 2 106 . 1 108 . 3 125 . 0 
44 . 7 44 . 5 69 .6 75 . 8 
III 12 . 3 II . 5 10 : 9 

I I 0 . 9 II 1 3 
0 . 9 0 . 7 0 . 5 0 . 6 
5 .8 5 . 4 5 . 4 6 .3 

9 . 2 8 . 9 6 . 1 6 . 3 
304 1. 296 . 0 292 : 8 332 - 6 

99 .0 95 . 3 114 3 124 . 1 
248 . 0 2155 2087 2030 

III 8 . 2 17 : 4 18 . 2 
274 . 6 268 .9 288 . 6 316 . 6 

1. 0 0 . 9 10 I I 
47 . 2 19 . ) 44 . 9 

54 . 4 
1541 139 5 12 , 1 126 . 0 

1 . 8 2 . 0 1 . 6 1 . 9 
2 . 4 2 . 1 I I 


. 


. 


V 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


5032 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


3 


4 5 
- - - - - - - 


6 
- - - 


280 . 2 

2 . 2; 
1727 

2 I 
47 . 4 . 


- 0 . a 


38 Diarrhoea and enteritis , . . . . 

1913 200 . 8 222 2 
39 Discasce of gallbladder and bile ducts 

3 . 8 2 . 5 2 . 8 
40 Other diseases of digestive system . . . . 182 : 7 169 . 7 159 . 2 
41 Nephritis and nephrosis , , , , , 2 . 6 2 : 0 2 1 
42 Dişcases of genital orgatis , . . . . 246 22 . 6 45 . 6 
43 Deliveries , complications of pregnancy , child birth and 
the puerperium , 

* 70 . 8 * 90 3 18 . 9 
44 Boil , abscess , cellulitis and other skin Infections 182 . 3 1694 219 . 9 
45 Other diseases of skin . . . . . . 82 . 

9 7 9 . 7 94 . 2 
46 Arthritis and rheumatism 

2019 195 - 4 119 . 1 
47 Diseases of bones and other organs of movement 12 . 0 11 . 3 5 . 9 
48 Congenital Malformations and discases peculiar to 

carly infancy , , . . . , . 0 . 8 1 . 0 1 . 0 
49 Other specific and ill - defined discases . . . 264. 6 242 , 9 229 . 9 
50 Accidents, poisoning and violence , . . 205 7 191. 4 15II 
51 Other Miscellaneous Groups , , , , 6 * 4 60 2 . 8 

TOTAL NO . OF NEW CASES . @ 3427 .2 3291. 7 @ 3327 .4 


20 . 2 
244 - 3 
100 . 3 
1343 

6 . 5 


- 


I S 
2410 
172 . 7 

3 . 2 


3719 . I 


* Per 1,000 insured women employees 
@ Figures brought upto date . 


APPENDIX XI 
Medical Service and Allocation Committees during 1967 -68 


Name of the State 


Remarks 


No. 


Number No. of No, of 
ofMeetings caseg cases 

brought pending 
on the list 


I Gujarat 


, 


. 


. 


. 


4 


4 


- One panel Doctor was 

fined for capitution 
lees of 10 Irsured 
Persons for one 
quarter and others 
were warned . 


7 Haryana 
3 Madras 
4 Maharashtra 

(a ) Greater Bombay 
(b ) Vidarbha 

( c ) Poona 
5 Mysore . . . 
6 Punjab . . . 
7 West Bengal . . 


Ölmwiswa 


. 


Two have resigned 


Sec . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5033 


APPENDIX XII 
Payments effected to State Government and cast of medical caro per family /Inurod 

perton - Stato - Wloe 


S . 
N 


State 


Year 


Approx !- Whether medical Nature of 

mate cost care extended to payment 
Total Amount per em - insured persons 
Paid 

ployee only or in 
or family sured persong 
unit per with familles , 
annum 


Rs. P . F . P . 
, 1987-68 33,50 ,000 . 00 


I Andhra Pradesh 


i 


For Insured per - " On Account 
sons with 
families. 

" Final 
" On Account" ) 


2 Asaam 


. 


Do. 


Do . 


. 


3 Bihar , 
4 Delhi , 
5 Gujarat 
6 Haryana 


Do . 
Do. 


Kerala 


. 


. 1964 -65 2, 57, 527. 60 

1967 -68 3,00 ,000 . 00 
· 1967-68 19 ,50,000 . 00 
· 1966 - 67 72 ,751 . 89 * 

1967 -68 1,01, 00 ,000 . 00 
, 1966 -67 8 , 50 ,000 . 00 

1967 -68 16 , 10 , 000 . 00 
. 1964 -65 68 , 88 ,918 . 22 % 

1965 -66 8 ,88,379 66 
1966 -67 12 , 00 , 000 . 00 
1967 -68 38 ,00 ,000 . 00 
1966 - 67 5 ,00 , 000 . 00 
1967 -68 36 ,25, 000 . 00 
1964- 65 5 ,44,630 73 
1965- 66 18, 63 ,360 , 38 % 
1966-67 2 , 81 ,608 . 03 
1967- 68 34, 28 , 977 . 29 
1967-68 30 , 00 ,000 . 00 


11 
IUUIIII 
| 
| 
| 
| 
li 


8 Madhya Pradesh 


po 
. 


“ On Account" 
“ Final 
" On Account 
" Provisional 
" On Account 
" Final 
Flaal" 
“ Provisional 
" On Accopor " 
“ Provisional" 
" On Accouat" 
" Final 
" Final" 

" Final" 
(For insured " Final 
persons at Madra : " On Account 
Colmbator. Mad 
Urai V . S . 
Puram & Tuti 
corn arces and 
insured persons 
with their fami 
les in other 
area ). 


9 Madras , 


. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do, 


Io Maharashtra 
( a) Greater Bombay 1964- 65 22, 35 ,563 : 58 

1965- 66 16 ,42,330 20 
1966 -67 30 , 00 , 000 . 00 

1967- 68 2 , 30 , 00 , 000 . 00 
(b ) Nagpur Area 1966 -67 4 ,47,776 . 49 

1967- 68 19 , 00 ,000 . 00 


For Insured per- " Final” 

sons with Fami- " Final” 
lics 

" Provisional 

" On Account 
" Final 
" On Ascount " 


Do . 


TIL|JO11 


( c ) Western 

1965- 66 . 4 , 18 ,827 : 25 
Maharashtra Region 1967-68 23, 65 ,000 . 000 
II Mysore . . 1965-66 11 , 87, 805. 94 

1967-68 48,00 , 000 . 00 


" Final" 

" On Account " 
" Final” 
" On Account" 


7034 THE GAZETTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 PART 11 - 


1, 00 ,000 . 00 


" On Account 


12 Orison . . 
13 Pondicherry . 


. 1967 -68 
. 1966-67 

1967-68 


1, 10 , 000 . 00 

85 , 000 . 00 


" Provisional" 
" On Account 


14 Punjab . 


, 


. 1963 -66 

1966 -67 
1967 - 68 
1966 - 67 
1967-68 


4 , 82, 137- 45 

7, 50 ,000 . 00 
23 , 50 ,000 .00 

3 , 97 , 271. 78 
15, 50 ,000 . 00 


" Final 

* Provisional" 
" On Account 
* Final 
" On Account 


15 Rajasthan 


, 


IO Utuur Pradoul 


1965 -6624,02 , 046 . 96 
1967 -68 42 ,75 , 000 . 00 % 


" Final" 
" On Account 


17 ) Woot Bengd . 


* Pipal 
" On Account 


1964- 6 % 22 ,83, 239 * 38 
1966 -67 1 ,27 , 00 , 000 . 00 

Rs. 10,69,93,152. 83 P. 


TOTAL 


, 


NB. : % Paym ; nts of an uats viz R $ 8, 38 , 918 . 22 for Kirala for 1964 -65, RS. 13 ,09, 24138 

for Madras for 1965-66 ani Rs. 24, 02. 016 96 for Uttar Pradesh for 1965 -66 w 
authorised during 1966 -67 but these were actdally paid during 1967 -68 only . 
These were shown as final during 1966 -67 inadvertently . 
* Payment arranged by A . O . (M ) Delhi. 


AFPËRDO 
Locidence of sickness and Maternity Benefit Claims in 1966 -67 and 1967 -68 _ Statement 


Extended Sickness 

Benefit 


Maternity Benefit 


State 


Period 


No. of Total 
employees No. of 
deemed cash 
exposed to Benefit 
risk for pay 
Sickness ments 
Ext. Sick 
nets Benie 

ft. 


Sickness Benefit 
Average 
No. of 
cash Rate of Average Average 
Bencft Lesh No of daily 
pay spells S . B . days rate 
ments per per emplo 
per emp - emplo yee per 
loyce per yee per annum 
annum annum 


Rate of Average Rate of 

fresht duration confinc 

cases terminated ment per 
per 1000 

annum per 
employees 

1000 insured 
per anaum 

Women 
employees 
exposed 


Average 
amount 
paid per 
confine 
meat 


8 


9 


10 


11 


Rs. 


tec.36H)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER13,1969/KARTIKA24,18915035 


Andhra Pradesh 


. 


. 


167 . 1 


1966 -67. 
1967 - 68 


81 ,250 
88 , 850 


1,61, 384 
1 ,90 ,203 


20 
2 . 1 


1 . 29 
1 . 27 


IQ - 2 
91 


531 


3 . 5 


169 - 6 


36 . 9 


1 . 3 


1966- 67 
1967 -68 


10 ,450 
10 ,350 


17 .478 
19469 


òò 


6 . 9 


3 . 6 


1792 
142 . 9 


60 . 0 
60 . 0 


2 - 35 
2 .83 
2 48 
2 . 72 
2 . 61 
2 . 75 
3 . 00 
3 : 23 


Bihar . . . 


. 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


55, 700 
57, 600 


447507 
90 ,932 


0 - 8 


0 . 9 


óo 


153 . 1 
186 . 7 


28 - 4 
SI - 5 


aanuw 


Delhi 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


$ 2 ,250 
84 , 150 


835481 
86 , 397 


1 . 0 


178 . 9 
1945 


I : O 


oº 


31. 7 


Gujarati . . 


. 


80 . 5 


0 . 9 
10 


oo 


73 


78 . 1 
106 . 9 


A V 


10 . I 


818 


K 


ada 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1966-67 | 2 , 16 , 150 
1967- 68 2,34 ,850 
1966-67 1,18,350 
1967 -68 1,34 ,150 
1966- 67 92 ,050 
1967 - 68 92, 100 


11: 3 


1, 9355 
243,453 
3, 10 ,660 
3,46 ,024 
1 , 72 ,797 
1 , 81,714 


I 44 


== 


176 . 0 
124 . 8 


12 . 1 


122 . 8 
120 . 2 


1 : 48 


5 . 5 


Madhya Pradesh 


19 


6 . 4 


1 . 04 
I . IO 


2 . 81 


2 . 0 


125 
12 . 5 


3 .08 


123 . 9 
144 . 7 


109 . 2 
94 . 8 


EN 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


11 


12 


Madras 


1 . 6 


1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


2 , 74, 100 
2 , 91 ,750 


4 ,49,689 
4 , 92 ,850 


0 . 82 
1 . 88 


126 . 9 
124 . 5 


1 . 7 


boa 


3 . 45 


66 . 2 


Habarmht . , 


. 


1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


7 , 55 , 200 
7 ,73,300 


11, 38 ,632 
12 ,60 ,155 


مة 


12 
1 . 09 


3 .83 


6 7 
73 


3 . 99 


123 . 2 
121. 4 


405 
32 . 4 


Mnrant 


, 


, 


, 


, 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


1 ,43 , 700 
1,51,850 


89. 6 


2 , 12 ,390 
1 ,95 ,892 


1 . 02 
0 . 92 


272 
3 . 02 


4 : 2 
37 


140 . 3 
136 . 3 


ش 


91 . 3 


Odess 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1966 - 67 
1967- 68 


26 . 400 
27,000 


34 ,111 
34 . 312 


ا 
ش 


2 . 82 
3 . 10 


8 . 9 
IO I 


2 : 49 
2 .65 


15 . 8 

1 . 2 


191 . 3 
168 . 9 


26 . 9 


ܩܳܘܺܪ̈ܕ 


mo 


Punlab & Haryana 


, 


0 . 23 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


1, 44 ,300 
1960 ,600 


$ 9 ,793 
67, 368 


2 . 2 
2 . 2 


1 . 2 


2 . 48 
2 . 77 


145 . 7 
128 . 2 


15 . 8 


0 


12 . 6 


o 


0 . 25 
0 . 48 
0 . 35 


0 


Rajasthen . 


. 


. 


. 


1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


48 ,050 
52 , 300 


42, 700 
47 ,069 


0 . 9 


as 


1418 
139 . 8 


48 . 3 
42 . 6 


0 


5036THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891(PARTII 


Uttar Pradesh 


, 


. 


1966- 67 
1967 -68 


2 ,42,650 
2 , 45 ,350 


1 ,93 ,786 
2 ,07 ,990 


0 . 8 
0 . 8 


0 . 56 


oNN 


5.4 


2 . 76 


15 


181-8 
184 . 8 


an 


17 . 1 
17 : 3 


0 


0 .59 


West Bengal , 


. 


. 


1 . 3 


0 . 92 


a 


1966- 67 
1967-68 


7 , 50 , 150 9, 83 , 879 
7 ,87,400 11,43 . 835 


8 . 0 


1 . 5 


1 . 00 


7 . 5 


2 . 76 


2 . 5 
3 . 5 


173 s 
169 . 2 


44 . 2 
47. 8 


TOTAL 


, 


1966 - 67 30 , 50 , 750 40 , 94 , 512 
1967 - 68 31,91,600 45,67 .663 


13 
1 . 4 


0 . 88 
I OI 


3 .01 
3 . 22 


4 5 
SI 


131 7 
135 . 0 


69 . 5 
67 . 4 


APPENDI NY 
Incidence of Disablement and Dependants Boneft Claims admitted in 1966 -67a0d 1967 -68 _ Statewise 


Permanent Disablement 

Benefit 


Dependants 

Benefit 


Teriod 


Temporary Disablement 

Benefit 
No of 
employees Rate of No. of Average 
deemed fresh T . D . B . daily 
exposed spells days rate 
to risk per emp - per 

lovec per emplo T . D . B . 
annun yee per 

annum 


State 


No. of 
fresh 
cases 
admitted 


No. of 
death 


No . of 
Bene 


CASES 


ficiaries 


of 


Rate of No. of No. of 
fresh cases Benefi - 
cases commuted ciaries 

per for lump- at the 
IOCO emp- gum 

end of 
loyees per 

the year 
angum 


admitted 


at the 


end 


the 


year 


IO 


II 


Rs. 


Andhra Pradesh 


. 


2 : 41 


I . 52 


128 
IS 


134 


0 . 04 
0 .04 


1966 -67 85,000 
1967 -68 1,00 ,250 
1966 -67 10 ,350 
1967 -68 10 , 300 


259 
280 


Oooo 


IT 


2 : 58 


c.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891 


I . 14 


0 . 03 
0 .02 


2 : 44 
2 - 43 


2 .61 


0 . 80 


1. 46 


naNo 


Bihar 
Delhi 


o ooo 


. 
. 


0 . 53 


1966 -67 
1967 - 68 


. 
. 


. 
. 


56 , 950 
58 ,400 


. 
. 


0 .02 
0 .02 
OOS 


0 . 54 
1 .03 


2 : 32 
2 . 50 
2- 89 


1966 -67 


83,000 


I 


1, 346 


1967- 68 


87,500 


0. 05 


0. 87 


3: 11 


248 


2.85 


ІЗІ 


131 


1418 


Gwarat 


. 


. 


. 


0 .05 


3 : 45 


3 . 36 


-420 


137 


1966-67 2,28 ,600 
1967-68 2,50 ,950 


0.04 


0 .87 
0.89 


3. 78 


931 


3-91 


750 


750 


6 01 


236 


ต 


Koraja 


. 


10 


. . 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


1 , 33 ,450 
1, 36 ,250 


0 ,04 
0 :04 


0 .61 
0 .65 


#4 


264 


I . 18 
1994 


130 
201 


280 
337 


ZII 


2 . 70 
3 . 69 


Madhya Pradesh 


. 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


IOS 


91,700 
93 ,350 


0 . 07 
0 . 08 


1 . 32 
I . 29 


124 


I . 80 
1 . 02 


44 


620 
673 


205 


2 . 99 


185 


I2I 


239 


5037 


S 


. . 


. 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


IO 


10 


II 


11 


T12 


12 


Mado 


, 


. 


, 


0.05 


0. 93 


466 


471 


230 


I 


703 
772 


1. 64 
1 .74 
2 . 16 


1966 -67 85390 
1967-68 300 500 
1966- 677 , 68 ,090 
1967 - 68 7,89,090 


20 
I2S 


459 


256 


. 0 .04 


0 . 67 


8 .43 


1 ,667 


8, 218 
9, 046 


1,383 
1,510 


: 5352 

12S 


1•73 


Mynte . 


. 


. 


1966- 67 
1967-61 


1,49, 650 
1,58 , 800 


0 . 04 
O -03 


0 . 44 


$ + 69 
2 91 


2 . 29 
1. 85 


428 
464 


13 
II 


29 


Ocimus 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1- 83 


244 


1966– 67 
1967 -68 
1966 -67 
1967-68 


37,250 

77,290 
1 ,58400 
1, 67450 


0 . 83 
0 .96 


3 : 51 
2 .63 


1 . 47 


262 


5038 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
NOVEMBER 
15 
, 
1969 
/ 
KARTIKA 
24 
, 
1891 
[ 
PART 
2 


Punjab & Haryana . 


. 


0 .03 
0 . 04 
0 . 03 
0 . 03 
O .OS 


0 : 55 


800 


0 . 58 


220 
326 


1 .39 
1 . 95 


874 


321 


2 . 27 
2 : 59 

2 . 10 
· 2 : 45 


mmHH 


Rejuthan . 


. 


. 


. 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


$ 1,000 


0 . 77 


173 


55 ,750 


0 . 04 


0 . 70 


2 . 08 


199 
247 


118 


Uttar Pradesh 


0 -65 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 


2 :46 ,000 
2 ,44,790 


0 . 03 
0 . 03 


0 , 64 


7 . 50 
2 . 80 


299 
3 SI 


I . 22 
1 . 43 


247 
330 


1 ,139 
1 , 159 


450 
$ 39 


Vest Bengal . 


. 


. 


0 : 07 : 


781 


1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


7 , 85 ,290 
7 , 93 , 700 


0 . 08 


1 . 53 
1 . 55 


7 . 49 
1 . 83 


2 . 770 
3 .715 


:33 
4 . 68 


1 . 369 
2 ,622 


4 ,458 
6 , 151 


060 


TUTAS 


262 


1966 - 67 
1967 -68 


31,60 ,000 
30 80,8508 


0 .05 
.95 


0 . 92 

91 


2 . 77 

7 ,391 
3•118 . 526 

27S 


IOS 


2 34 
2•61 


4,148 
5, 285 


19,353 
22 ,543 


4 ,416 
5, 103 


279 


S - Relates to Second Accident , 

Figo mised , 


SKC 3 (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTTKA 24. 1891 5039 


APPENDIXY 


Incidence of Permanent Dirable prent Proof Croreemitted to 16- 64 nad 1947 - 68 

INDUSTRY -WISB 


lødustry 


Period 


Rstimated No. of Rate of 

No, of accident PDB at 
employees ChBC per 1000 
exposed admitted employees 
to risk 

per annu 


LIO 


Food, Beverages and Tobacco 
Textiles . . . . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


187 


I 95 
I A 


Leather and Rubber . 


. 


. 


. 


ISI 
# 05 
190 
1 . 72 
I . 14 


Chemicals and Chemical Producto 


3 ,48€ 
4 , 234 

126 
136 
156 
40 
Igo 
124 
264 


. 


I -61 


Non -Metallic Minerals 
Matallic Minerals . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


I . 
1 : 44 
8 . 36 


1966 -67 
1967 -68 
1966-67 

1967 -68 
. 1966 - 67 

1967- 68 
. . 

1967 -68 
. 1966- 67 

1967 -68 
. 1966 -67 

1967 -68 
. 1966 - 67 

1967 -68 
1966 - 67 
1967 -68 
1966 -67 

1967 -68 
. 1966- 67 

1967- 68 
. 1966-67 

1967-68 


1 ,55 ,991 
1 ,54 , 186 
13 ,92,296 
14 , 35 , 757 

74 , 29 % 
19 , 05 
1, 36 , 712 
1 . 48 ,741 
1,48 ,95 
1 , 55 , 63 
9 , 92 , 609 
3 , 00 , 973 
4 , 20 , 014 
4 , 46 , 747 
1 ,06 , 129 
1 , 17 , 577 
1. 32 ,64 
1 , 33,414 
4 ,00 ,404 

2 , 08 , 762 
37,60 ,000 
32 ,80 , 8go 


996 


3 : 21 


Bagineering 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1. 140 
1 .311 

401 
60C 


2 - 71 
1 . 99 
t - 38 


Transport . . 
Paper nd Printing 
Miscellaneous . 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


I . 66 


. 


. 


. 


. 


tos 


TOTAL 


. 


9040 


APPENDIX XVI 
Pardculars of legal action taken daring 1967-68 ander the E .S.J. Act. 


State 


Amount involved in cases filed under 


Amount received by action under 


Section 66 


Section 67 


Section 73- D 


Section 75 


Section 66 


Section 67 Section 73- D 


Number 
of pro 

secution 
Section 75 filed 

under 
Section 85 


IO 


Andhra Pradesh . 


. 


3,412 . 50 


1 , 99 ,636 . 94 


11 


56 ,343 . 48 
13 , 060 . 82 


Asgam 


195 . 29 


28 ,401438 


67 ,634 . 00 
3 ,66 ,329 . 60 
2 ,26 , 906 - 29 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,1891(PART- 


61, 025 : 29 


36 , 333 .62 


30 , 173 . 38 


15 ,790 . 00 

7,455- 18 
75,045 .83 


. 


1, 72 , 422 - 65 


13,568 .38 


43,415 , 63 


24 ,582 . 18 


3 ,77 ,302 .49 


8.065.37 


Bibar 
Delhi . . 
Gujarat 
Kerala 
Madh ya Pradesh . 
Madras , . 


10 ,18, 989.79 
4 ,97 ,986.61 


1, 56 ,084. 72 
3, 12 , 138 .63 


1,803. 31 


165. 94 


1 ,02 ,558 .75 


. 


1 ,72 ,999 . 99 


715 . 05 


- 


. 


- 
2 ,250- 38 
5,626 : 25 


9, 65, 218 . 50 
16 ,00 ,928 .04 
19 :28,808 . 69 
3, 11, 587. 24 


3, 27, 727 . 61 
6, 79,816 - 06 

66 , 401. 62 


3 ,07 , 193. 21 
1, 12 ,297 . 37 
7,61, 665 . 81 
1, 76 ,250 -03 
2, 06 ,758 -98 


12 , 195 . 47 
1,07,739 .03 
2,06,254 . 50 

38, 325 - 24 


Maharashtra . 


- 


10 , 175 . 00 
1,87,718 . 15 
2 ,313 : 10 

- 
$1,033 17 


Mysore 
Orisse 
Punjab 


60 , 623. 44 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


43,419 77 

- 

- 
463 . 75 


74 , 365 . 00 


1,65, 560 . 33 


5 , 652 . 99 


4, 54,865 37 


2 ,49. 721. 75 


54 ,830 . 29 


1, 94 , 248 .65 


Rajasthan 


. 


. 


- 


26 , 161. 26 


61,976 . 98 


6 ,236 .08 

959. 94 


2,58, 169. 23 
2 ,62, 549. 35 
10,01,618 . 39 


47, 208 . 78 

1,922 . 26 . 
1,22,853 -41 


Nagpur Arca 
Uttar Pradesh 
West Bengal 


4 ,192.91 
581. 00 

- 


1,450 ,46 


31 


- 


. 
. 


4, 556 . 
2 , 72 ,447 -32 

40,037. 55 


1,07 ,828 .81 
1, 27, 162-82 


. 


18,619: 27 


12 , 57 ,079 . 88 


2 ,65, 298 . 29 


2 ,465 . co 


- 


292 


Totu . 


. 


. 


$, 53,571. 52 


8 ,042 . 57 1,04, 92,672 . 92 26,89 ,003 . 03 


63 , 365. 92 


- 


24 ,90 ,653 -86 10 : 56 . 616 41 


937 


Sec.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER15,1969/KARTIKA24,18915041 


5042 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 (Part II 


. 


S 


APPENDIX 
Income and Expenditare Account for 


INCOME 


Previous year 

( 1965- 66) 


Head of Account 


Amovat 


Total 


Rı. 


Rs. 


12 ,93 .37, 109 
11, 50 , 20 ,3co 


Rs. 

By Contributions : - 
11, 67, 12,836 Imployers Store or ly 
10 ,39 ,69, 964 Employees Share ouly 
27 ,06 ,82 ,800 
2 , 74 , 699 State Govt, share towards medial benefits 

initially incurred by the Corporation 


24 , 44 , 17 , 410 


3 ,67,000 


3 ,67 , 00 


Other Heads of Revenue . 


Grant - in - aid , Dorations and Gifte 
23, 95, 958 Interests ar d Divider. d . . 

1, 15 ,615 Compersations . 
2 , 22 , 796 Rents , Raics ard Taxes . . 

6 , 304 Fecs , Fines and Forfeiture 
2 , 29 ,878 Miscellaneous . . . 


80 , 51. 463 
1 ,65,754 
1 ,52 , 220 

2 , 476 
2 , 12 , 545 


99 ,70 , 551 


85,84, 566 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 101 5044 


KVII 


the Year coded 318t March , 1967 


FTPENDITURE 


- 


La 


HER 


V 


Heod of Account 


Amount 


Previous Year 

( 1965- 66 ) 


Total 


Re. 


Re . 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

Re. 
I. Ber efits to ir sured personeer dit eit fierilies 
4 . Medical Benefits 

Payments to State Goverrmert etc, 
18 Corporations Share of their 
exper see on providing medical 

freement and mateltity facilitiek e1c . , 86 ,43 , 412 
(H ) Medical treatment and care and 

maternity facilitia ( exper.ses incurred 
direct by the Corporation - 
( Total Expenditure) 

43 , 52 , 597 
Total 4 - Medical Benefit 


9 ,21, 89 ,254 


36 , 85 , 782 
9 ,58 ,75,036 


10, 30,06010 


6 ,04, 20 ,850 
47, 19 ,595 
33,71,412 
66 ,65, 880 


B - Cash Benefits 

( 1 ) Sickr. css Bercote , 
( 2 ) Extended Sicknes , Bencfits 
( 3 ) Maternity Bercfits 
( 4 ) Timpcray Djesblcment Benefito , 
( 3 ) Permanent Disableincat Bencfitg 

(Capitalised Value) . . . . 
(6 ) Dependants Benefits 

(Capitaliscd Value . . . . 


7, 06 ,03,647 
64 , 86 ,673 
37 ,55 ,036 
80,42,828 


1,07, 35 , 830 


1, 20 , 52 ,800 


82 ,28 ,700 


23 ,17 ,000 
8,82,30 ,587 


Toral cash Benefits 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10 ,41, 69 .74 


6 . cc 
1 , 51. 6to 


C - Other Benefits 

(a ) Expenditure on the Rehabilitation of 
30 ,008 

Diseblęd perscrs. 
1 , 30, 296 (0 ) Medical Founderd Arseol Triturals 

(c ) Payments to Inauicc Ic! ? ( [ 8 ; - 
50 , 070 

( 1 ) Conveyance charges ard /or lose of Wagner 
(2 ) Incidental cberga under fopil 

Planning. 
6 , 221 

Grant- in - wid 
1 , 13 ,486 

Miscellaneous 
3,30,088 Total CrOiker Bomestito . . . . 
18 , 44 ,35 ,704 Total Beretho to insured peercocecd their fraico 


56 .560 
17 ,715 


, 05 , 500 
1 , 5 ,357 


$ 8,63 


21 ,55,3 ,98 $ 


1 - Administration Exponses 
( 1) Corporation Standing 

Commitice, RegionalBonde etc . 
1 ,00 , 181 (2 ) Princire ] Officer 
16 , 56 ,069 ( 3 ) Oiher Officers 
53 , 72 , 261 (1 ) Ministerul Ertelliitatt 
10 , 70 , 665 (5 ) Clees IV Servini , 
22 , 80 , c28 (6 ) Contingencies , . 
1,06,03,313 Total de Superintendence , 


22 , 511 
1, 91, 194 
18 , 18 , 240 

: ( : 1 : 8 
12 , 50 .275 
25 , 56 ,215 


1 , 22 ,49: 07 


5044 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (Part II — 


Previous Year 

( 1965 -66 ) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


- 


R . 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Sinc . 3 (1 ) ] THB GAZETTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5045 


Previous Year 

(1965 -66 ) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


101al 


Rs. 


Rs. 1 


Re. 


Rs. 

Be Field Work 
3,45,538 (1 ) Officers 
66 ,09, 174 (2 ) Ministerial Estatlistment 
11,94 ,332 (3 ) Class IV Servånis , 
12, 79, 192 ( 4 ) Copringencies 


, 
. 


4 , 20 , 941 
78 , 31,074 
14 ,36 , 371 
13 , 17, 274 


1, 10 ,05, 660 


34,628 


99 , 118 


Dis28 ,236 Totol B- - Field Work . . 

C - Other Charges 
96 ,149 ( 1 ) Legal Chargcs , . . 1 ,09 , 748 
72 , 823 (2 ) Insurance Courts . . 
7 ,918 (3) Publicity & Advertisement , 12 , 099 

(4 ) Charges for maintaining of 
8 , 980 Banking Account , . 

8 ,465 
58,815 (5) Audit Fees . . . . 
4 , 15 , 479 (6 ) Depreciation of office Bldgs / 

Hospitals / Dispensarles Equip 

ments/Staff Cars, etc. . 5 ,67 ,013 
2, 04 ,366 (7 ) Repairs, Malatenance of 

Office Bldgs. owned by the 
Corporation : : : 

22 , 974 
7,06 ,212 (8 ) Repairs & Maintenance of 

Hospital Bulldings owned bythe 

Corporation . . . 12 , 39 ,371 
2 ,95,000 (9) Pension Reserve Fund for the 

Employees of the Corpn . , 3, 50,000 
1,46 ,002 ( 10 ) Corporation s Contribution to 

E . S . I . Corpa . Providcat Fund 1,61,443 
2,76 ,200 ( 11) Interest paid to the E . S .I. 

Corpn . Provident Fund , 3 ,47,649 
( - )65,875 (12) LESSinterest & gain realised 

on investment Fund , . (---)33,934 
( 13 ) Miscellaneous . . . 

24 , 788 
( 14 ) Looses 


22, 22 ,069 Total C - Other Charges 


. 


29 , 43 , 362 


2 ,61,98 ,093: 
24, 17 , 37 ,0782 


2 , 22, 53 ,618 Total 2 - Admiristration Expenses 
20 ,66 , 89,322 Total Ripenditure on Revenue 

Account 

To exceas of income over axpendi 
2 ,43 ,38,728 cure carried over to Balance Sheet 
23 ,09,28 ,050 

Grand Toual . . 


1, 16 ,31, 902 
25, 33,68,980 


(S . P . Joshi), 
Financial, Adviser Chief Accounts Officer , 

Employers Stato Insurance Corporation 


1040 THE GAZETTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 PART 11 


APPENDIX 


Balance Sheet as an 


Llabilities 


Txvious Year 

( 1963- 66 ) 


Απηρunt 


Total 


Ro. 


Rs. 


33 ,92,56 ,614 
1, 16,31,902 


35,08, 88 ,516 


Ro. 

Dalaner of Excast of Income Over Expenditure 
31,90, 17,886 Ao per last Balance Shect , . , , 

2, 41, 38,728 Accumulations during the year 
33 ,93, 56 ,614 

( 1) Permanent (Partial & Fotol) Disablement 

Rostro . Pad 
2,87, 17, 144 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 
1 ,07, 35,830 Provision made during the year . 

13,43,079 Interest received from Inpostments ? . . 
4 ,07, 98 , 073 

5772,311 LASS Payments made during the year . 
3, 30 , 25 ,762 


3, 50 ,25 ,762 
1, 20 ,42,8 < C 

16 , 93 ? 19 
4 ,87, 72 ,381 
71,80,398 


4 , 15 , 91, 963 


( 2 ) Dependan.is Benefit Resoru . Puod 


1 ,73 ,90 ,448 As per last Ralance Sheet . , 
23, 17,000 Provision made during the year . 
5 ,34 ,702 Interest received from Investment 


. 
. 


1,32,71,018 
32 ,28, 700 
7 , 30 ,423 


1 , 42,42,140 

9,71,132 LESS Payments made during the year 
1 , 32 , 71 ,018 


1,72, 30 , 141 

11, 93 ,936 


, 


1,60 ,36 , 205 


(3) Employees State 

Provider.1 Fund 


Insurance Corporation 


89,06 ,275 As per last Balance Sheet , . . . 71, 30, 227 

ADD Amount credited during the year 
14; 29 ,912 Employees Contribution , , , , 17,35, 983 

1,46, 002 Corporation Contribution : . i . 1,61,443 
. 2 , 76 , 200 Interest on Employees and Corporation shares 3, 47, 649 
1,07, 54 ,389 

93 ,95 ,272 
9,88 ,138 LESS Payments made during the year 

8, 39 ,671 
97166,251 

19 ,35,601 
( - ) 26 ;36 ,034 (LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve ( - ) 62 ,991 

Fund ) 
71, 30,327 


84 , 91 ,67 


c . 36H ) ) THONETTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 13 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 3047 


VII ) 


3107 March 1907 


Previous Year 

( 1965-66 ) 


Assets 


Amount 


Total 


RU 


Rs. 


R . 


Rs. 

Lande am Buildings ( holly owned by the 

Corporation) 
(* ) Duildings for off as of the Corporation 

( including Staff Quarlarsi 
14 ,13 ,572. As per lust Balance Shoct . , . 
32 ,26,734 Addition , during the year . . . i 
46, 40 , 300 


40,40,306 
6 ,38 , 881 


74 ,79 ,787 


(5) Bospitals and Dispensarias 
3,00 ,67,032 As per lebt Balance Sheet 
2 , 30 ,27,442 Additions during the year 


5, 90 , 94 ,474 
2 ,66 ,21,475 


5 , 90 , 94 , 474 


8,57, 15,949 


6 , 57 , 34 , 780 


9 ,31, 95 ,186 


Land, and Buildings ( jointly owned by the 

Corporation and State Govis. ) 


Corporation s shore 

(a ) Hospitals and Dispensarlos 
3 ,31,023 As per last Balance Sheet , 

74,358 Additions during the year 


. 
. 


. 
. 


4,05,331 


. 


4 ,03,331 


4 ,05, 331 


- 


- 


(6 ) Equipmmts for Hospitals, etc . 
49,630 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 

- Alfidons during the year . . 
49 ,680 


. 


49 ,680 


. 


49,680 


4 , 35 , 011 


4 , 33 ,011 

Suspenso ( Alvance for construction of Hospitals , 

Ingir oquipmonts, ic« Bulding ) 
8 ,73 ,64, 435 As per lest Balance Sheet , . . . 
· 3 ,98 ,79 ,600 ADD Payments made during tho year 
12 ,32,44,041 
5 ,33,02 ,399 LBSS Adjustments & Recoveries . . 
9, 7941,642 


9, 79 ,41,642 
4, 26 ,68 ,621 


14,06 ; 10 ,263 
3,37,27, 903 


10, 48,83 


1048 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 \(PART II - - 


Previous Year 

( 1965-66 ) 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 

(4 ) Depreciation Reserva Pund of buildings for 

the offices of the Corporation ( including staff 

quarters) 
1 ,81, 169 As per last Balance Sheet . . 
32, 590 Provision made during the year 
12, 333 Interest received from Investments . 


2 , 26 , 092 


9 , 532 


2 , 26 ,092 


2 ,35,67.8 


(5) Doprociarion Reserve Fund of equipment in 

Hospital and Examination Centres 


27, 946 As per last Balance Sheet . 
4 , 968 Provision made during the year 
1 , 094 : Ir terest received from Investuents 


. 
, 


34 , 008 
9 ,884 
1, 191 


. 


34,008 


45,085 


(6 ) Depreciation 

Buildings 


Reserve Fund of Hospitals 


3 , 32 ,587 As per last Balance Sheet . 
3 ,67, 959 Provision made during the year . 

13, 549 Interest received from Investments 


. 


7 , 14 , 095 
5 , 50 ,251 

32,623 


7, 14 ,095 


12 , 96 ,969 


( 7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 
42 , 154 As per last Balence Sheet . 
9 , 962 Provision made during the year . . 
2 , 180 Interest received from Investments , 


54 , 296 


6 ,878 
2 ,565 


54 , 296 


63, 739 


( 8 ) Repairs and Maintenance Resoroc Fund of 

buildings for the offices of the Corporation 


1 , 81,442 As per last Balance Shect . 
2 ,04 , 366 Provision made during the year . 

8 ,623 Interest received on favestments 


. 
. 


3 , 90 , 770 
. . 22 , 974 

16 ,932 


3 ,94 , 431 

3 , 661 LESS Payments made during the year . 


4 ,30 ,676 

64 ,314 


. 


3 ,90 , 770 


3 , 66 , 36 % 


Ford 


( 9 ) Repairs and Maintmanco Resoru 

Account of Hospitals 
3,65,786 As per last Balance Sheet . 
7, 06 ,212 Provision made during the year , 

12,842 Interest received on Investoents 


10 , 84 , 840 
12 ,39 , 371 

50 ,770 


10, 84 ,840 


LBSS Payments made during tho year . 


. 


13, 74 , 981 
1,27,680 


10 ,84 ,840 


22 ,47, 301 


SBC . 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5049 


Assets 


Amount 


Previous Year 

( 1965 -66 ) 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Ro. 


Staff Cars 
84 , 149 As per last Balance Sheet . 

ADD Payments mide during the year 


84 , 149 


. 


84 , 149 


84 , 149 


Permanent Advance to the Heads of Office of 

the Corporation 


20 ,466 As per last Balance Sheet , 
1,561 ADD Payments made during the year 


: 


21,816 
1 ,265 


23,081 


22 ,027 

211 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


. 


21,816 


23 ,081 


Advance of Pay on transfer to the Employees 

of the Corporation 
7 ,608 Ao per last Balance Sheet 
44,915 ADD Payments made during the year : 
$ 2 , 523 
42 ,265 LESS Recoverleg made during the year . 


10 ,258 
64, 036 


74 , 294 
55,483 


10 , 258 


18 ,811 


Advance of T . A . on transfer to the Employees 

of the Corporation 


18, 194 As per last Balance Sheet 
56 ,946 ADD payments inade during the year 


19, 386 
72, 978 


75 , 140 
55,754 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


. 


92,364 
61,316 


19, 386 


31,048 


Advance for Purchase of Conveyances to the 

Employees of the Corporation 


1 ,41,831 As por last Balance Sheet . 
2 ,73 ,492 ADD Payments made during the year . 


2 ,79 , 282 
2 , 89, 440 


4 , 15 , 323 
1, 36 ,041 LESS Recoveries made during year 


, 


. 


5 , 68 ,722 
2 , 17 , 506 


2 ,79 , 282 


3 , 51, 216 


· House Building Advance 
4 , 500 As per last Balance Sheet 
14, 900 ADD Payments made duriag the year . 


19 , 180 
29, 520 


19 , 400 

220 LESS Recoverlas mado during the year. 
19, 180 


. 


48 , 700 
1,928 


46 ,772 


5050 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 PART 1 


ui 


Previous Year 

( 1965-66) 


Liabilitics 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Ra. 


Rs. 


( 10) Pension Reserve Fund for the Employees 

of the Corporation 


14 , 99 , 975 As per lant Balance Sheet , . 
2 ,95 , 000 Provision made during the year , 
65, 025 Interest and gain received on Investinents 


44 , 80 ,634 
3 , 50 , 000 
2 , 22 ,620 


50 , 53 ,254 

15 ,736 


18 ,60 , 000 

15, 390 LESS Payments made during the year . . 
18, 44 ,610 
26, 36 ,024 ( ADD Amount transferred from Employees 

State Insurance Corporation Provident Fund) 
44,80,634 


50 , 37 , 518 


62 ,991 


51,00 ,509 


Deposits of Securities e.g. Contractors 
1 , 11 , 935 As per last Balance Sheet . 
87, 607 ADD Deposits during the year. . 


82 ,401 
. 92 , 159 
1, 74 , 560 
87, 128 


1 , 99 , 542 
1, 17 , 141 LESS Deposits repaid during the year 


82, 401 


87,432 


Deductions from bills payable to other parties 
12 , 796 As por last Balance Sheet 
2 ,91, 008 ADD Amount credited during the year 


15 , 555 
3 , 35 , 282 


3, 03 ,804 
2 ,88 , 249 LESS Payments made during the year 


3 ,50 , 837 
3 ,09 ,405 


yments 


15 ,555 


41, 432 


Unclaimed deposits in the Employeos State Insu 

rance Corporation Provident Fund 


4 , 274 As per lagt Balance Sheet 
2 , 219 ADD Amount credited during the year 
6 , 493 


6 ,493 
3 , 113 


9, 606 


- 


LESS Payments made during the year 


6 , 493 


9 ,606 


Miscellaneous Deposits . 
84 , 115 As por last Balance Sheet 
33 , 178 LES $ Deposito repaid during the year . 

- ADD Deposits received during the year . 


50 , 937 
2 , 48 , 127 


50 , 937 


2 ,99 ,064 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5051 


Previous Year 

( 1965 -66 ) 


Assets 


Amount 


Total 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Miscellaneous Advances to the Employees of the 

Corporation ( Festival Advances ) 


81, 117 As per last Balance Sheet . 
2 ,95 , 825 ADD Payments made during the year 


1 , 07 ,520 
3 , 22 ,430 


3 , 76 ,942 
2 ,69,422 LESS Recoveriesmade during the year 
1, 07 ,520 


4 ,29 , 950 
2 , 92 , 398 


1 ,37 , 552 


Advance Payments on behalf of State Governments 


1 , 166 As per last Balance Shect 
4 ,088 ADD Payments made during the year . 


959 
3 , 949 


5 ,254 
4 ,299 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


4 , 908 
3 , 449 


959 


1 ,459 


Advance to the Reserve Bank of India for the 

purchase of Securities 


As per last Balance Sheet , 
1 , 32 , 696 ADD Payments made during the year . 


1,32,696 
( - ) 1 ,32 ,696 


1, 32,696 


LESS Adjustment made during the year 


1 , 32 ,696 


Amount advanced to State Govts. State P . W . D . 

etc . towards repairs & maintenance of Hospitals 
Dispensaries / Annexes etc . wholly owned by the 
Corporation 


III 


As per last Balance Sheet 
ADD Payments made during the year . 
LESS Adjustments made during the year 


16 ,79 , 774 
4 , 00 , 001 


12, 79 , 773 


Miscellaneous Advances 


3 , 16 ,639 As per last Balance Sheet . 
3 ,67,603 ADD Payments made during the year , 


5 ,87,546 
2 ,21 , 707 


6 ,84, 242 

96 ,696 LESS Receipt during the year 
5,87,546 


. 


. 


8 , 09 , 253 
2 ,07,089 


. 


6 , 02, 164 


Loans granted to State Governments 
49 , 75, 546 As per lagt Balance Sheet . 
22, 94, 220 ADD Payments made during the year , 


72 ,69, 766 

1, 00 , 000 


72 ,69,766 


73,69 , 766 


5052 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


PreviousYear 
( 1965-66 ) 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5053 


Ageeta 


Previous Year 
( 1965 - 66 ) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 
Remittances 

Cash Remittancos 
( - ) 46 , 136 As per last balance sheet 
37 , 00 , 11 ,407 ADD Debits adjusted during year 


, 


20 ,04 , 500 
39 , 29 ,46 ,618 


36 , 99,65, 271 
36 ,79 ,60 , 771 LESS Credits adjusted during year 


39,49,51, 118 
39 , 43 , 40 , 118 


20 , 04,500 


6 , 11,000 


Other Remittances , Exchange Accounts 
As per last balance sheet 
ADD Debits during the year . 


24, 549 
4 ,45 ,46 ,913 


4 ,89 ,69, 120 
4 , 89 , 69 , 120 
4 , 89 , 44 , 571 


LESS Credits during the year 


. 


. 


4 ,45, 71, 462 
4 , 45 , 71 , 295 


24 , 549 


167 


INVESTMENTS AT COST 
( 1) Permanent ( Partial & Total) 
Disablement Benefit Reserve Fund 


2 ,86 ,96 ,746 As per last Balance Sheet 
31, 54, 000 ADD Investments made during the year 


3 , 18 , 50 ,746 

96 , 86 ,600 


3 , 18 ,50 ,746 


4 , 15 ,37, 346 


LESS Realisation on Maturity or sale of invest 


ments 


4 , 15, 37, 346 


3 , 18, 50 ,846 

(2 ) Dependants Benefit Reserve Fund . 
1, 11 ,48 , 701 As per last Balance Sheet , 
18 , 17, 000 ADD Investments made during the year . 


. 


1, 29,65, 701 

30 , 53 ,0co 


. 


1, 29 ,65, 701 


1,60 , 18 ,701 


LESS Realisation on Maturity or sale of Invest 

ments , , , , , , , 


1 , 29,65, 701 


1,60 , 18 ,701 


(3 ) Employees Stare Insurance Corporation 

Provident Fund . 


79 , 59, 351 As per last Balance Sheet . 
13 , 46 , 000 ADD Investments made during year 


, 


70 ,27 ,600 

9 , 02 , 500 


79 . 30 , 100 


93 ,05, 351 
5 , 000 LESS Realisation on maturily or sele of invest 

ments . . . . . . . 


79, 30 , 100 


93 , 00 , 351 
22, 72 , 751 LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve 
Fund . . . 

. . . 


70 , 27, 600 


79, 30 , 100 


5054 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Previous Year 
( 1965- 66 ) 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


= 


SRC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5055 

To 
Previous Year 

Assets 

Amount 

Total 
( 1965-66 ) 


Rs. 


RS. 


(4 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Buildings for 

the offices of the Corporation ( including Staff 

quarters) 
1,80,808 As perlast Balance Sheet , 

7,000 Add Investments made during the year 


1 , 75 , 488 

52 ,CCO 


2 , 27 ,488 


1 ,87,808 
12 , 320 Less Realisation on maturitty or sale of invest 

ments 


1,75,488 


2 , 27, 488 


5 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipment 

in Hospitals and Examination Centres 


22 ,900 As per last Balance Sheet 
10, 000 ADD Investmentmade during ihe year 


27, 900 
11 , 000 


38 , 900 


32, 900 
5 ,000 LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of invest 

ments 


5 ,000 


27, 900 


33, 900 


(6 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospitals , 

Buildings 


1, 72 , 500 Agperlast Balance Sheet . 
1 ,63, 000 ADD Investments made during the year 


. 


3 , 35 , 500 
3 ,82, 0co 


3 , 35 , 500 


7 , 17 , 500 


(7 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 
29, 000 As perlastBalance Sheet , 
21,000 ADD Investments made during the year 


42 ,000 
24 ,000 


66 ,000 


50 , 000 
8,000 LESS Realisation on maturity or sule of invest 

ments . 


1 2 , 000 


42, 000 


54 ,000 


(8 ) Repair & Maintenance Reserve Fund of 

Buildings for the offices of the Corporation 
(in : luding Staff quarters ) 


1,43, 727 As perlast Balano Sheet . 
33 ,05 ) ADD I 20m :nto made during the year 


1 , 81 ,727 
2 ,29,000 


4 , 10 ,727 


1 ,81 ,727 

LESS Rilisation on maturity or sale of invest 

monts . . . . . . . 


149 ,500 


1 ,81,727 


3 ,61 ,227 


5056 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


- 


- 


- 


Liabilities 


Previous Year 

( 1965- 66 ) 


Amount 


Tctal 


Ro. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5057 


Assets 


Amount 


Toiel 


Previous Year 
( 1965-66 ) 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


(9 ) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Furd 

of Hospitals, Buildings 


3 ,65, 600 
7 ,21,600 


10 , 87, 200 


1 , 600 As per last Balance Sheet . 

Wito 

. 
3,64, 000 ADD Investmenimade during itc year : 
3 ,65 , 600 

LESS Realisazich on maturity or sale of invest 
ments . . 

. . . . 
3 ,65,600 


1 ,600 


10 ,85, 600 


( 10 ) Pension Reserve Fund for 

Employees of the Corporation 


12 ,04 , 804 As per last balance Sheet 
2 , 96 , 000 ADD Investmentmade during itc yceri 


37 -73 ,555 
II,25 ,2co 


15 , 00 , 804 

48, 99, 355 
22 ,72,751 ADD amount trausferred to ESIC Provident Fund 

- LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of investments 40 ,842 
37,73 ,555 

Genera ICash Balances 


48 ,58 ,513 


16 , 86 ,22 ,614 Investments as per last Balance Sheet 
7 , 92 ,67 ,200 ADD Investmcnts made during the year 


, 


. 


15 , 29 ,89, 395 
2 , 97 , 96 ,000 


24, 76 , 89, 814 
9 , 47 , 09 ,419 LESS Realisation on maturity or sale ofinvest - 

ments 


18 , 27, 85 , 395 
6 , 13 , 45 ,761 


15 , 29,89, 395 


12 , 14 , 39,634 


5 ,05, 726 Cash in hand 
1 ,68,89,764 Cash with Bankers 


6 , 14 , 965 
2 , 28 , 33 ,996 


1,73, 95 , 490 

2 ,34 ,48, 961 
17, 03 ,84 ,885 Total Cash Balance 

14 ,48, 88 ,595 
40 , 18 , 23 , 742 Grand Total 

42 ,68,02,435 
New Delhi 

S . P . Joshi, 
Dated the 3131 May , 1957 

Financial Adviser & 

Chief Accounts Officer , 

Employees State Insurance Corporation . 

AUDIT CERTIFICATB 
I have examined the foregoing accounts and he Balar. ce Sheet of the Employees 
State Insurance Cortoration and obtained all the informatics and cxpler alicrs that I have required 
and subject to the observations in the Audit Report apferded , 1 centiſy , as a result of my audit 
that in my opinion there accounts and the Balance Sheet are properly drawn up so es to exhibit 
a true and fair view of The state of affairs of the Employees State IngvIgAce Corporation according 
to the best of my information and explanaticn given to me and me hown by the tocke of the 
Employces State Insurance Corporation . 
New Delhi 

Sd/- D . D . DHINGRA , 
Dated 13 Juric , 1968 

Accountant General , 

Central Revenues , 


that in bject to the otservacicand obtained price 


5058 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 Part II 


APPENDIX 

Income and Expenditure Account 
N .B . Theaccounts for the year 1967 -68 are still to be audited by the ExternalAuditors. 
INCOME 


Previous Year 
( 1966 -67) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 


By Contributions:-- 
12,93,37, 103 Employers Share only 
11, 50 ,80 , 309 Employees Share only 


, 
. 


. 
. 


13, 54 , 06 , 909 
12,44, 28 , 148 


. 


. 


26 ,08 ,35 ,057 


3 , 94 ,390 


3 , 94 ,390 


24,44 , 17 ,412 

State Governmenta /Union territories share 

towards medical benefits initially incurred 
. 3 ,67,000 by the Corporatipn 

Other Heads of Revenue 

Grants - in -aid , Donations and Gifts 
80 ,51,463 Interests and Dividends . . . . 
1,65,754 Compensations . . . . . . 
1,52 , 330 Rents , Rates and Taxes . . . . 

2 ,476 Fcos, Fines and Forfeitures 
2 , 12 , 545 Miscellancous . . . 
85,84 ,568 


$ 8 ,95, 709 
1 ,36 ,051 
63, 255 

4 ,953 
2 ,97 ,313 


63 ,97, 281 


- 


-- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5059 

= = = = = 
XIX 
For tho Your ended 31 March 1968 


FXPENDITURE 


Previous Year 
( 1966 -67) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 

Rs. 
I. Benefits to insured persons and their 

families 
A - Medical Benefits 
( 1) Paymcats to State Governments etc . 

as Corporations share oftheir expenses 

on providing medical treatment and maternity 
9 , 86 , 53 . 422 facilities etc. . 

: 10 ,69 , 20 ,401 
( II) Medical treatment and care and mater 

nity facilities ( expenses incurred direct by 
43 , 52 , 597 the Corporation ) _ ( Total Expenditure) : - 54 , 37 ,704 


11, 23 , 58 , 105 


8 , 38 , 52 ,628 
82 ,93 , 784 
40 ,34, 184 
93 , 19 , 587 


1 ,49 , 60, 700 

31, 61 . 0co 


12 , 36 ,41, 883 


10 ,30 ,06 , 019 Total A - Medical Benefits 

T - - Cash Benefits 
7 , 06 ,03, 617 ( 1 ) Sickness Benefits . . . . . 
64 ,86,673 (2) Extended Sickness Benefits . . . . 
37 ,55,036 (3) Maternity Benefits . . . . 
80 , 42 , 858 ( 4 ) Temporary Disublement Benefits 

( 5 ) Permanent Disablmcnt Benefits 
1 ,20 ,52 ,800 (Capitalised Value) . . . 

32 , 28 , 700 (6 ) Dependants Benefits (Captallged Value ) 
10 ,41 ,69 , 714 Toral Cash Benefits 

C - Other Benefits 

(a) Expenditure on the Rehabilitation of 
6 ,060 Disabled persons 
1 ,51,660 (b ) Medical Board and Appeal Tribunals : 

(c ) Payments to Insured Persons 
$ 5 ,960 (1) Conveyance charges and /or loss of wages 

(2 ) Incidental charges under family 
17 ,71% Planning 

. . . . 
(d ) Funera Benefits . 
80 , 05 , 500 (c ) Grants - in - aid . . . . . 
1,75, 357 (1) Miscellaneous . . . . . 


33 ,312 
1 , 98 ,054 


72 , 599 


4 , 82 , 266 

28 ,621 
20, 00 , 000 
1,49, 464 


83,63 ,292 


Total C - Other Benefits 


29 ,64, 316 


Total Benefits to Insured persons and 

their families 


21, 55, 38 , 985 


23 ,89 ,64 , 304 


5060 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART 1]- - 


Previous Year 
(1966 -67) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


RS. 


Rs. 


By excess of expenditure over incomecarried 

Over to the Balance Sheet 


41,03 , 506 


25, 33 ,68 ,980 


Grand Total 


27 , 17 ,30 , 234 


New Delhi 
Dated 318t May, 1968 . 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 5061 


Previous Year 
( 1966 -67) 


Head of Account 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 
23, 89,64 ,304 


25 ,288 
2 , 15 , 988 
19 , 10 , 541 
71, 85 , 554 
14, 39 , 856 
29, 04, 916 


1, 36 , 82, 143 


.... 


4 , 86 ,511 
89, 28 ,828 
16 ,12, 384 
13 , 49 ,677 


1 , 23 , 77 ,400 


Rs. 

Total Brought Forword 
21,55, 38 , 985 2 -- Administration Expenses 

(1 ) Corporation , Standing Committee , 
22 ,511 

Regional Boards etc , . . 
1,91, 194 ( 2 ) Principal Oficers , 
18 , 18 , 240 (3 ) Other Officers 
63 ,70 ,638 ( 4 ) Ministerial Establishment 
12 , 90 , 275 ( 5 ) Class IV Servants . . 
25 ,56 ,213 (6 ) Contingencies , , , , 
1,22 ,49,071 Total A - Superintendence 

B - - Field Work 
4 , 20 , 941 ( 1 ) Officers 

, . , 
www 

, , , 
78, 31,074 ( 2 ) Ministerial Establishment . 
14 , 36 , 37 ) ( 3 ) Class IV Servants 

13, 17 , 274 ( 4 ) Contingencies . . . 
1 , 10 ,05 ,660 Total B - Field Work 

C - Other Charges 
1 , 09 , 748 ( 1) Legal Charges . . 
34 ,628 ( 2 ) Insurance Courts 
12 , 999 (3 ) Publicity & Advertisement , 

Charges for maintaining of Banking 
8 , 465 

Accounts . . . 
99, 118 Audit Fees i 

. . 
Depreciation of Office Buildings, 
6 , 878 Staff Cars etc , 

Repairs, Maintenance of Office Buil 
dings owned by the Corporation , . 
Retirement Bonefits 

Pension Reserve Fund for the Em 
3 , 50 ,000 ployees of the Corpration 

) Corporations Contribution to ESI Cor 
1,61,443 

poration Provident Fund 

(c) Interest Paid to the ESI Corporation 
3,47,649 - Provident Fund 

(d) Less interest & gain realised on 
(-- -) 33 , 934 investment 

(9 ) Compassionate Reserve Fund 
24, 788 ( 10 ) Miscellaneous 

. . 
. 

. . 
( II ) Logscs 

. 
(11) Losses . . . . . . 
11, 43, 856 Total C -- Other Charges 


1, 21 , 697 

9 , 105 
24 ,405 


11 ,331 
78, 349 


79 ,666 
2 ,38 ,599 


22 , 974 


15 ,50,000 
1,62,657 
4 ,48 , 258 
(- ) 72 ,222 

5 ,000 
651 
422 


26 , 57,912 


2 ,87, 17,455 


2 ,43,98, 587 Total 2 -- Administration Expenses 

3 – Hospitals and Dispensarios 
5, 60 , 135 ( 1) Depreciation of Hospitals Bldgs. & . 

Equipments 

( 2 ) Repairs , Maintenance of Hospitals 
12 , 39 , 371 . Building /Dispensaries . . . 


10 , 21, 149 


30 , 27, 326 


40 ,48 ,475 


H2 


17, 99, 506 
24 , 17 , 37, 078 Total Expenditurc on Revenue Account , . 

27, 17 , 30 , 234 
To excc9 $ of income over expenditurc carried 
1 , 16 ,31 , 902 Over to balance sheet . . . . 
25, 33, 68 ,980 Grand Total 

27, 17 ,30 , 342 
( V . R . NATESAN ) 
Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer 

Employees , State Insurance Corporation 


5062 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 PART II - - 


U 


. 


- S 


. 


. 


Balance Shoet as on 
The accounts for the year 1967 - 68 are still to be audited by the External Auditore . 


N . B . 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Previous Year 
( 1966 -67) 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


35,08,88,516 
( - )41,03, 506 


34 ,67,85,010 


Balance of Excess of Income over Expenditure 
33, 92 ,56 ,614 As per last Balance sheet , 

Accumulations ( + ) /Dcficit ( + ) during 
1 , 16 ,31,902 the year 

: : : : 
35 ,08 ,88 ,516 

(1) Permanent ( Partial and Total) Disablement 

Benefits Reserve Fund 
3 , 50 , 26 , 762 As per last Balance Sheet . . 
1 , 20, 52, 800 Provision made during the year . . . 

16 , 93 ,819 Interest received from investments . . 
4 ,87,72 ,381 

71 ,80, 398 LESS Palyments made during the year 
4 , 15,91, 983 

(2 ) Dependants Benefits Reserve Fund 
1 , 32, 71, 018 As per last Balance Sheet . . 
32 , 28 ,700 Provision made during the year . . 
7 , 30 ,423 Interost received ftom Investmenta , . 


4 , 15 ,91, 983 
1, 49 , 60 , 700 

20 , 60 , 979 


5 , 86 , 13 ,662 

95, 40 , 866 


4 , 90 , 72 , 796 


1 ,60, 36 , 205 
31 ,61, 000 

7 ,68 ,449 


1 ,72, 30 , 141 

11,93,936 LESS Payments made during the year 


1, 99 ,65 ,654 
14 , 18 , 728 


1, 85 ,46 ,926 


1 ,60 , 36 , 205 

(3) Bmployees State Insurance Corporation 

Provident Fund 
71, 30 ,227 As per lagt Balance Sheet . 

ADD Amount credited during the year 
17 ,55, 953 Employees Contribution , 
1 ,61, 443 Corporation Contribution . 
3 ,47,649 Interest on Employees and Corporation shares 


84,92 ,610 


93, 95 , 272 

8 ,39 ,671 LESS Payments made during the year 
85, 55,601 (LESS Amount transferred to Pension 
( - )62, 991 Reserve Fund) 
84 ,92 ,610 


26 , 98 ,622 
1 ,62 ,657 

4 ,48 , 258 
1, 18 ,02 , 147 

11 ,80 ,719 
1 ,06 ,21,428 

494 


1,06 , 20 ,934 


(4 ) Depreciation Reserve fund of Buildings 
for the offices of the Corporation ( incl uding 

Staff quarters) 
2 , 26 ,092 As per last Balance Sheet , , 

Provision made during the year . 
9 ,532 Interest received from Investment 


2 , 35 ,624 
73, 343 
10 , 374 


3 , 19 ,341 


2, 35,624 

(5) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipment 

in Hospitals and Examination Contres . . 
34,008 As per last Balance Sheet . . . 

9 , 884 Provision made during the ycar 
* 1, 191 Interest received from investments . . 
45,083 


49 ,083 

1, 872 


$3716 


52 ,671 


Sec . 3 ( it ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5063 


31 March 1968 


Assets 


Previous Year 
( 1966 - 67) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 

Lands and Buildings (wholly owned by the Corporation ) 
(a ) Buildings for offices of the Corporation 

(inculding Staff quarters ) 
66 ,40,306 As per last Balance Sheet , 

74. 79, 187 
8 ,38 ,881 Additions during the year . . . 

31, 41,684 
74 ,79, 187 
(6 ) Hospitals and Dispensaries 

1 ,06 ,21,081 
5 , 90 , 94 , 474 As per last Balance Sheet . 

8 , 57 , 15 , 949 
2 ,66 ,21, 475 Additions during the year 

3 , 00 ,50 , 261 


12,63,87, 260 


8 ,47,949 

11, 57,66 ,210 
9 ,31,95 , 136 

Lands and Buildings ( goiritly owned by the Corporation 
and State Governments ) Corporation s share 

(a ) Hospitals and Dispensaries 
4 , 05, 331 As per last Balance Sheet . . . . 4 , 05 ,331 
Additions during the ycar 

2 ,74,291 


6 , 79 ,622 


49,680 


4 , 05, 331 

( ) Equipments for Hospitals etc . 
49 , 680 As per last Balance Sheet . 

Additions during the year 
49,680 
4 ,55 , 011 

Suspense ( Advance for construction of Hospitals, 

their equipments, Office Buildings) 
9 ,79 ,41,642 As per last Balance Sheet . 
4 , 26 ,68 ,621 ADD Payments made during the year 


49,680 


7 , 29 , 30 % 


. 


10 , 48 ,82 , 360 
4 ,47 , 10 ,839 


14 ,95, 93 , 199 
3 ,55, 96 , 001 


14 ,06 , 10 , 263 
3, 57,27,903 LESS Adjustments & Recoveries 
10 ,48,82, 360 

Staff Cars 
84 , 149 As per last Balance Sheet . . 

ADD Payments made during the year 


11 ,39 ,97 , 198 


, 


84 , 149 
14 , 791 


98,940 


23 , 081 

1 ,755 


84 , 149 

Permanent Advance to the Heads of Offices of 

the Corporation 
1 ,816 As per last Balance Sheet 

1, 265 ADD Payments made during the year . 
23, 081 

LESS Recoverics made during the year 
23,081 

Advance of Pay on transfer to the Employees of 

the Corporation 
10 ,258 As per last Balance Sheet 
64 ,036 ADD Payments made during the year 
74 , 294 
55,483 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


24 ,836 

240 


24 ,596 


18 ,811 
45 ,000 


63, 811 
57 , 728 


18 ,811 


6 , 083 


5064 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24, 1891 [PART II – 


- 


Liabilities 


Previous Year 
( 1966 -67) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 

(6) Depreciation on Reserve Fund of Hospital , 

Buildings 
7 , 14 ,095 Ag per last Balance Sheet , , , 
5 , 50 , 251 Proylsion made during the year . 

32,623 Interest received from investments 


, 


12 ,96 ,969 
10 , 15 ,434 

65,432 


23,77 ,835 


12, 95 ,969 

(7) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 
54 ,295 Ag per lagt Balance Sheet . 
6 ,878 Provision made during the year 
2 , 565 Interost received from Investments 


63, 739 
6 , 323 
3 ,427 


73, 489 


63 ,739 

(8 ) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund of 

Buildings for the Offices of the Corporation 
3 ,90 , 770 As per last Balance Sheet 

22 , 974 Provision made during the year . 
16 , 932 Interest received on Investments 


3 ,66 , 362 
2 , 38 , 599 

22, 806 


6 , 27, 767 
41, 706 


4 , 30 ,676 

64,314 LESS Payments made during the year 
3,66, 362 


5 ,86 ,061 


(9 ) Repairs and Maintenance Reserve Fund 

Account o : Hospitals 
10 ,84 ,840 As per lagt Balance Sheet . 
( 12 , 39 , 371 Provision made during the year , 

50 ,770 Interest received on Investments 


22 , 47 , 301 
30, 27 , 326 

1, 15, 164 


23, 74 , 981 
1, 27 ,680 LESS Payments made during the year 


53,89, 791 

6 , 848 


53 , 82, 943 


22 ,47 . 301 

( 10 ) Pension Reserve Pund for the Employees 

of the Corporation 
44 ,80,634 As per læst Balance Sheet . 
3 , 50 , 000 Provision made during the ycar , 
2 ,22,620 Interest and gain received on Investments , 


51,00 ,509 
21,72 , 177 
3 , 13 ,496 


50 ,53 , 254 

15 ,736 LESS Payments made during the year . . 
50 , 37 , 518 
62, 991 ADD Amount transferred from Employees 

State Insurance Corporat on Provident Fund 


75, 86 , 182 

18 , 308 
75,67,874 


494 


51, 00 , 509 


75 ,68, 368 


(11) Compassionate Reserve Fund for the Em 
ployees of the E . S . I. Corporation . 


5 ,000 


Provision made during the year , 
Interest received on Investments 
LESS Payments made during the year 


5 , 000 


- 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5065 
- = - = - = - = = - = = - = 

= = 
Previous Year Asses 

Amount Total 
( 1966 -67) 


Rs. 


Rs. 


RS. 


Advance of 1. A . on transfer to the Employees 

of the Corpn . 
19, 386 As per last Balance Sheet 
72 , 978 ADI) Payments made during the yeur , . 


31,048 
64 ,424 


95,472 
70 ,456 


25,016 


92 , 364 
61, 316 LESS Recovcries made during the year 
31,048 

Advance for purchase of Conveyance to the Em 

ployees of the Corporation 
2 ,79 ,282 As per lasc Balance Sheet . 
2 ,39 , 440 ADD Payments nade during the year 


3 , 51 ,216 
3 ,88, 479 


3 ,68,722 
2 , 17, 506 LESS Recoveries made during the year 


7 , 39 ,695 
2 ,60,831 


3 , 51, 216 


4 , 78 ,864 


House Building Advance 


19 , 180 As per last Balance Shect 
: 3 ,520 ADD Payments made during the year . 


. 


46 , 772 
31 ,420 


48, 700 

1, 928 LESS Recoveries made during the year 
46,772 


78 , 192 
5 ,628 


72 , 564 


Miscellaneous Advances to the Employees of the 

Corporation 

( Pestival Advances) 
1 , 07 , 520 As per lagt Balance Sheet 
3 , 22 ,430 ADD Paymentsmade during the year . 


1 , 37, 552 
4 ,06 , 866 


4 , 29 , 950 
2 ,92 ,398 LESS Recoveriesmade during the year 


, 


5 , 44 ,418 
3 ,66 ,638 


1 , 37 , 552 


1 ,77, 780 


Advance Payments on behalf of State Governments 
959 As per last Balance Sheet . 
3 , 949 ADD Payments made during the year . . 


1 ,459 
4 ,279 


4 , 908 


5 ,738 
4 ,657 


3 ,449 LRSS Recoveries made during the year 


1 , 081 


1 , 459 

Advance to the Reserve Bank of India for the 

Purchase of Securities . 
1,32 ,696 As per Balance Sheet , 
( - -) 1 ,32, 969 ADD Payments made during the year . . 


LESS Adjustment made during the year 


, 


5066 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II 


Liabilities 


Provious Year 

( 1966 -67) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


87 ,432 
1 , 14 , 588 


Rs. 

Deposits of Securities e. g. Contractors 
82 ,401 As per lagt Balance Sheet . . 
92, 159 ADD Deposits during the year . . 
1 ,74 , 560 
87 ,128 LESS Doposits repaid during the year . 
87, 432 

Duductions from bills payable to other parties 
15 , 555 As per last Balance Sheet 
3 ,35, 282 ADD Amount credited during the year 


. 


2 ,02 ,020 

99 ,983 


1 ,02 ,037 


41,432 
3 ,71,228 


3, 50 ,837 
3, 09 ,405 LBSS Payments made during the year 


4 , 12 , 660 
3 , 86 , 157 


41,432 


26 , 503 


Unclaimed deposits in the Employees 

Insurance Corporation Provident Fund 


State 


6 ,493 As per lagt Balance Sheet . 
13 ,113 ADD Amount credited during the year 


9 , 606 
1 , 202 


10 , 808 


9 ,606 
- 


LESS Payments made during the year 


2 ,893 


19,606 


7 , 915 


Miscellaneous Deposits 


50 ,937 As per last Balance Sheet . 

LESS Deposits repaid during the year 
2 ,48, 127 ADD Deposits received during the year 


2 ,99, 064 
1 ,87, 766 


2 , 99 , 064 


1, 12 , 298 


Sec. 3 ( il ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5067 

= = : = : - - : - * - - - = - = : . . - . 
Previous Year 

Assets 

Amount 

Total 
(1966 -67) 


Rs. 


Ro 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Amount advanced to State GovLs. Slate P . W . D . 

bic , towards repairs & maintenance of Hospitals / 
Dispensaries) Annexies etc . wholly owned by the 
Corporation , 


As per last Balance Sheet ::. 
16 , 79 , 774 ADD Payments made during the year 


.. 


12 ,79 , 773 
5 , 52 , 930 


16 , 79 , 774 
4 , 00 ,001 LESS Adjustmentsmade during the year 


. 


18 , 32 , 703 

6 ,848 


12 ,79 , 773 


( 18 , 25 ,855 


Miscellaneous Advances 
5 , 87 , 546 As per last Balance Sheet , 
2 ,21, 707 ADD Payments made during the year , 


6 , 02 , 164 
5 , 15 ,229 


8 , 09 , 253 
2 ,07 , 809 LES $ Receipts during the year 


, 


, 


. 


11, 17, 393 
2 ,09, 510 


6 , 01 , 164 


9 , 07 ,883 


Luans granted to State Governments 
72, 69 , 766 As per last Balance Sheet , . 
1 , 00 ,000 ADD Payments made during year 


73 ,69, 766 


, 


73 ,69,766 


73,69 ,7661 

Remittances 
Cash Remittances 


20 , 04 , 500 As por last Balance Sheet , 
39 ,29, 40 ,618 ADD Debits adjusted during the year . 


6 , 11 ,000 
. 41, 94, 34 , 109 


42 ,00 , 45, 109 


39 ,49 ,51, 118 
39 , 43 , 40 , 118 

6 , 11 ,000 


LESS Credits adjusted during the year 


34 , 100 


Other Remittances - Exchange Account 


24, 549 As per last Balance Sheet . 
4 , 45 , 46 , 913 ADD Debits during the year 


167 
4 , 62 ,87 ,672 


, 


. 


4 , 62 ,87 ,839 
4 ,62,85, 579 


4 ,45,71, 462 
4 , 45 ,71 , 295 LESS Credita during the year . 

167 

INVESTMENTS AT COST 
( 1 ) Permanent (Parcial & Total) 
Disablement Benefit Reserve Fund . 


2 , 200 


3 , 18 , 50 ,746 As per last Balance Sheet . 
96 ,86 , 600 ADD Investments made during the year. 


4 , 15 , 37 , 346 

75 , 74 , 966 


4 , 15,37 ,346 


4 ,91, 12 , 312 


LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

Investments 


30 , 208 


4 , 15 , 37 , 346 


4 , 90 ,62 , 104 


5068 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 PART 11- - 


SSSSSSS 


- 


Liabilities 


Previous Year 

(1966 -67 ) 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Amount 


Total 


Total 


Rs. 


Ro. 


Rs. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5069 


Assets 


Psevious Year 
1966 -67) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


(2) Dependants Benefit Reserve Fund 
1 , 29 ,65 ,701 As per last Balance Sheet 

30 , 53 , 000 ADD Investments made during the year 


. 


1,60 , 18 , 701 
26 ,89, 575 


1,60 , 18 , 701 


LESS Realisation on maturity of sale of In 

vestments 


1 ,87 ,08,276 

1, 73, 569 


1 , 89 ,34,707 


1, 60 , 18 .701 

(3 ) Employees State Insurance Corporation 

Provident Fund 
70,27,600 As per last Balance Shect . 
9 ,02 , 500 ADD Investments made during the year 


79 ,30 , 100 
26 ,83, 688 


79 , 30 , 100 


LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of in 

yestments 


1,06 , 13, 788 

1, 700 


1, 06 , 12 ,088 


1, 06 , 12 ,088 


79 , 30 , 100 

LESS Amount transferred to Pension Reserve 

Fund 
79 , 30, 100 

(4 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Buildings 
for the offices of the Corporation ( Including 

Staff quarters) 
1 , 75 , 488 As per last Balance Shect . 
52 , 000 ADD Investments made during the year 


2 , 27 ,488 

90 , 302 


2 , 27, 488 


3 , 17 , 790 


LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of in 

vestments 


3 , 17 , 790 


33 . 900 
18 , 700 


2 , 27 , 488 

(5 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of equipments in 

Hospitals and Examination Centres 
27, 900 As per lagt Balance Sheet 
11, 000 ADD Investments made during the year 
38 ,900 
5 , 000 LESS Realisation on maturity or sale of 

investments 
33, 900 


52 ,600 


52 , 600 


(6 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Hospital 

Buildings 
3 , 35 , 500 As per last Balance Sheet 
3 , 82 ,000 ADD Investments made during the year . 


7 , 17 , 500 
16 , 27, 960 


7 , 17 , 500 


23 ,45 , 460 


(7 ) Depreciation Reserve Fund of Staff Cars 
42 , 000 As per last Balance Sheet . 
24, 000 ADD Investments made during the year . 


$ 4 ,000 
17 ,493 


71,493 


of 


66 ,000 
12, 000 LESS Rcalisation on maturity or sele 

Investments 
54, 000 


71,493 


5070 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART 11 


Liabilities 


Amount 


Total 


Previous Year 

( 1966 - 67) 


Rş. 


R9, 


Rs. 


42 ,68 ,02 ,435 


Grand Total 


. 


. 


. 


44 , 16 , 40 , 127 


New Delhi, 
Dated the 31st May , 1968 . 


Sec . 3 (ii ) } THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5071 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


Amount 


Assets 


Previous Year 

(1966 - 67 ) 


Amount 


Total 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Rs. 


( 8 ) Repairs & Maintenance Reserve Fund of 

Buildings for the offices of the Corporation 
( including Staff quarters) 


1 ,81,727 As per last Balance Sheet . 
2 , 29, 000 ADD Investments made during the year 


3 ,61, 227 
2 , 12 , 185 


5 ,73 , 412 


of 


4 , 10 ,727 
49 ,500 LESS Realisation on maturlty or sale 

investments 
3, 61 ,227 


5 ,73 , 412 


(9 ) Repairs Ex Maintenance Reserve Fund of 
Hospital Buildings 


3 ,65, 600 As per last Balance Sheet . 
7 , 21, 600 ADD Investments made during the year 


, 


10 , 85 ,600 
25 ,02, 787 


35, 88 , 387 


10 ,87, 200 
1,600 LESS Realisation on maturlty or sale of 

investments 
10 ,85 ,600 

( 10 ) Pension Reserve Fund for the Employees 

of the Corporation 


35,88,387 


37, 73 , 555 As per last Balance Sheet , 
11,25, 800 ADD Investments made during the year . 


48,58 , 513 
28 ,07, 939 


76 ,66 ,452 
1 , 00 , 000 


of 


48 , 99 , 355 
40 ,842 LESS Realisation on maturity or sale 

Investments 
48 , 58 , 513 

General Cash Balances 


75 ,66 ,452 


15 , 29 , 89 , 395 Investments as per last Balance Sheet 
2 , 97, 96 , 000 ADD Investments during the year , 


. 
. 


12 , 14 , 39 , 634 
3 , 18 ,58, 300 


18 , 27 , 85, 395 
6 , 13,45 ,761 LESS Realisation on maturity or sales of 

investments 
12 , 14 , 39 ,634 


15, 32, 97, 934 
8 , 12 ,20 ,775 


6 , 14 , 965 Cash in hand . 
2 , 28, 33 , 996 Cash with Bankers 


. 
. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


7, 20 ,77 ,159 

6 ,73 ,580 
2 ,40, 26 ,346 
2 ,46 , 99 , 926 


2 , 34 ,48, 961 


9 , 67,77 ,085 


14 ,48,88,595 
42 ,68 ,02 ,435 


Total Cash Balance 
Grand Total 


44 , 16 , 40 , 127 


V .R . NATESAN , 
Pinancial Adviser & Chief Accounts Officer 
Employees State Insurance Corporation . 


50072 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969/KARTIKA 24, 1891 (Part ] 


APPENDIX 
Admlolstrativo Cont compared 


- 


- 


- 


1952-53 


. 1953-54 


1954 -55 


1955 -56 


1956 -57 


1957-58 


1958-59 


1959 -60 


34 , 77 , 578 


44 , 64 , 391 


30 , 58 ; 982 


62 ,36,431 


72 , 74 , 965 


90 , 85.024 


1 . Total 
Admi 
nist ta 
tly cost 21, 01, 420 14, 72,797 
Il(a ). 
Employ 
ORN Spo 
clal Con 
tribution 1, 37,40 ,677 175,43,593 


1,87, 89,480 2, 25, 29, 288 


2, 59 ,39 ,404 


2,83,41,328 2 ,90 ,24,081 3, 18, 53 ,735 


(6 ) Implyoce s 
Contri 
bution 30 ,73 ,643 


34,69,007 


97, 26 ,312 2,39 ,61, 290 


3, 22,02 ,834 3 . 52,35.954 


3 ,81, 11,950 


4,08,09, 253 


nous somme 


1,62 , 14 ,310 


2 ,11,12,600 


1,85, 15,792 


ou votuman sekaran aman pastas 


4,64, 90 , 578 5, 81, 42, 238 


6,35,77, 282 6 ,71, 36 ,031 7 ,26 ,62, 983 


III. 
Total 
outgoings 
( Expe 
diture 
on Re 
Venue 
Acc 
ouinto) 


28 ,45,457 


49, 53 , 181 


81, 93 , 943 


1, 80 ,64, 180 


2, 88 , 39,091 4. 37. 99. 697 4, 87, 90 , 810 6 , 16 ,46, 323 


IV 


Total 
Bogofito 


7 , 44,037 


24,80,384 


47, 19 . 365 


1, 35.99, 389 


2 ,37.71 109 3 ,75,63,266 


4 ,15, 15 , 845 3 ,25,0 . .301 


Radto of 
Adminis 
tretivo 
Cont of 


ІІ 


TIL 
IV 


12. 96 % 
75 - 85 % 
282. 43 % 


11 . 71 % 
49 . 92 % 
99 . 69 % 


12 : 18 % 
42. 40 % 
73 . 87 % 


0 . 60 % 
24 - 71 % 
32 - 33 % 


8 . 7 % 
17 . 55 % 
21 . 28 % 


9 . 8 % 
14 . 2 % 
16 . 6 % 


10 , 84 % 
14 . 92 % 
17. 5 % 


12 - 30 % 
14 74 % 
17 : 28 % 


Note IV dock dot include shore of boneAt exponditure borne by the State Governments . 


. - 


SEC . 3 (ii) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5073 

- -- - -- - - 
XXI 
Bonofit. pald ote, 

- - - - - - 
1960 -61 1961-62 1962-63 1963- 64 1964 -65 1965- 66 1966 -67 

1967- 68 


- 


- - -- 


- 


- - - 


- . . - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


- 


1,00, 43 , 343 1, 13 . 18, 261 1,30, 94 ,914 


1, 50 ,85, 724 1,87,63568 


2, 22, 53 ,618 


2 , 61, 98 , 993 


2 , 57, 17 , 455 


3.73,62, 109 4,01,53,612 6 ,53,66 ,265 8, 10,90 ,051 9,96, 74,412 


11,67, 12 ,836 


1 7, 93, 37, 101 


13,84, 06, 00 


5 ,01,07, 123 5,43, 20 , 221 6 ,01,69, 813 5,64 , 13,980 8 ,87,93 ,177 


10 ,39,69,96.1 


11,50 ,80 ,309 


12,44 ,28 , 148 


8 ,74 ,69, 232 9.44, 73,636 12 , 55, 35, 105 14.75,04, 031 18 ,84,67, 589 


22 ,06, 82, 800 


2 4, 44, 17,412 


26 .08. 35 ,057 


6 ,97, 83,225 


8, 44 ,97 ,977. 11.34 , 14. 803 12,35,56, 197 15 ,57 ,57 , 161 


20 ,66 ,89,322 24, 17, 37 ,078 


27,17 ,30 ,234 


5, 97139, 882 


7, 31,49,716 10, 03 , 19 ,889 10, 84, 70 ,407 13. 69 .93,593 18, 44, 35 , 704 


21, 55,38, 985 23 ,89,64, 304 


II. 48 % 
14 . 39 % 
16 . 80 % 


12 :01% 
13 43 % 
15 : 51 % 


10 . 43 % 
II 95 % 
13 .05% 


10 . 23 % 
12 . 21 % 
13. 91 % 


9 . 86 % 
I d 05 % 
13 . 69 % 


10 .08 % 
10 . 76 % 
12 . 06 % 


10 . 72 % 
10 -84 % 
17 . 15 % 


11. 01 % 
10 : 57 % 
12 . 02 % 


- - . - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


[ No . F . 4 / 15 /68 -HI. ] 


5074 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 (Part ] - - 


New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 
$ . O . 4612 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the Mechanical and Electrical Workshops, Ahmedabad , and Auto 
Workshop , Ahmedabad , belonging to Oil and Natural Gas Commission , in an im 
plemented area , hereby exempts the said workshops from the payinent of the em 
ployer s special contribution levlable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
period of one year with effect from the 15th October , 1969. 

[ File No. 6 / 72 / 69-HI. ] 


New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 


S . O , 4613 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 88 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Governrnent hereby exempts 
the regular employees of the Design and Development Centre , Okhla , of the All 
India Handicrafts Board , New Delhi, from the operation of the said Act for a 
period of one year from the date of publication of this notification in the official 
Gazette , subject to the following canditions, namely : 
(i ) that the aforesaid centre shall maintain a register showing the names 

and designation of the exempted employees ; and 
(li ) that, notwithstanding this exemption , the employees shall continue to 

receive such benefits under the said Act to which he might have 
qualified on the basis of contribution paid before the date of 
exemption . 

(No. F 6 ( 20 ) / 69 -HI. ] 


New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
8 . 0 4614 . -- Whereas the State Government of Haryana has in pursuance of 
clause ( d ) of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , 
nominated Shri H . S . Achreja , Secretary to Government of Haryana , Labour and 
Employment Departments , to represent that State on the Employees State In 
surance Corporation in place of Shri R . I, N . Ahuja ; 

And, whereas, the State Government of Punjab has in pursuance of clause ( d ) 
of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, ( 34 of 1948 ) , rominated 
Shri B . L . Kukkar , Secretary to the Government of Punjab , Health and Family 
Planning Departments, to represent that State on the Employees State Insurance 
Corporation in place of Shri Paramjit Singh ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No . S . O . 2551, dated 9th August, 1966 , namely : 

In the said notification under the heading " (Nominated by the State Govern 
ments under clause ( d ) of section 4 ) ” , 
(1) for the entry against item 11A , the following entry shall be substituted . 

namely : 
" Shri H . S . Achreja , Secretary to the Government of Haryana, Labour and 

Eployment Departments, Chandigarh ." 
( ii) for the entry against item 18 the following entry shall be substituted , 

namely 
" Shri B . L . Kukkar, Secretary to the Government of Punjab , Health and 
Family Planning Departments , Chandigarh .” 

( No. F . 372 /69-HI- Pt. 1. ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 
s . O , 4615 . — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) No. S . O . 2514, dated the 20th June, 1969, published in the Gazette of India , 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 5075 


June, 1969 at page 2824 , in 


Part II-Section 3 -sub -section (ii ) , dated the 28th 
line 3 for " Palayamkottai” read " Pudukottai" , 


[No. F . 6 ( 8 ) / 68 -HI. ] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 
S . O . 4618 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 20th October , 1969. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE NO . 50 OF 1969 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta . 

AND 
Their Workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Omcer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers Shri R . N . Ghosal, Deputy Secretary . 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Satyen Banerjee, Advocate. 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Port. 

AWARD 
By Order No. 28 / 130 / 67-LRIII, dated December , 11 , 1968 , the Government of 
India , in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour and Employment) , referred the following industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta and their 
workmen , to this Tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether having regard to its Circular No. 7354 dated 2nd June, 1958, the 

management of the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta was 
justified in counting the seniority of Shri Ajit Kumar Ghosh , L . D . C . 
from the date of his transfer to Head Office from the Boat Registra 
tion Omce on the 10th January , 1964 ? If not , to what relieſ is the 

workman entitled ? " 
2 . I need not decide the dispute myself. After some arguments were addressed 
before this Tribunal, both the parties came forward with a joint application for 
compromise and prayed that an award be passed in terms contained in the 
compromise petition . I find the terms fully and completely settles the dispute . 
I also And the compromise lawful . I therefore pass an award in terms of the 
settlement. Let the petition of compromise form part of this award . 

( Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE, 
Dated , October 10 , 1969. 

Presiding Oficer. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
In the matter of Government of India , Ministry of Labour , Employment 

and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) Order 
No. 28 / 130 /67-LRIII, dated 11th December , 1963. 

AND 
In the matter of an industrial dispute 

BETWEEN 
The Employers in relation to the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta 
Employers. 

AND 
Their workmen representated by the National Union of Waterfront Workers , 

10 , Mohan Chand Road , Calcutta - 23 - Worlmenn 


5076 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II . 


- 


- 


- 


REFERENCE No. 50 OF 1969 
1. The humble joint application of the aforesaid parties in the aforesaid matter , 
MTost respectfully sheweth ; 

That the aforesaid dispute has been amicably settled between the parties on 
the following terms - 

A . That the matter is settled by consent of the parties, 
B . That Shri Alit Kumar Ghosh will be transferred back to the office of 

the Superintendent, Boat Registration at Sibpore , Howrah in his own 
capacity and the seniority of Shri Ghosh in the said Boat Registration 
Ottlce will be continued to be counted from the date of his appoint 
ment in that office in supersession of the Order conveyed in the 
Secretary , Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta s letter No . 7354 /DC , 

dated 10th January , 1967 to the Director, Marine Department, 
2 . That the petitioners humbly submit that the terms are just and reasonable . 
In the circumstances the petitioners humbly pray that your Lordship may 

be graciously pleased to pass an Award in the matter in terms of 
the aforesaid terms of settlement and pass such further order or 

orders as your Lordship may seem fit and proper . 
And for this act of kindness, the petitioners, as in duty bound shall ever pray. 
Dateid , October 10 , 1969 . 
For the Workmen ; 

For the Employers : 
S . N . BANERJEE , Advocate 

B . L , MITTAL , 

Director , Marine Department, 
Workman , Shri AJIT KUMAR GHOSH , 

Calcutta Port Commissioners. 

[No. 28 /130 / 67-LR .- III. ] 


ORDER 
New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
S . O . 461 % . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists betweens the employers in relation to the Paradeep Port Trust, Paradeep , 
Cuttack District , Orissa , and their workmall in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute tor adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the power s conferred by clause (a ) of sub - sectior 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 ot 1. 947), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for Adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 
Calcuta , constituted under section " A ol the sail Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Paradeep Purt Trust in retrerich 

ing Shri J . Mall , Work Şaricar , with effect from 31st August, 1960 , was 
justified ; if not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

(No. 28 (97) / 60 -LR . III. ] 
C . RAMDAS, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1969 
S . O . 4618 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 o 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Sripur Colliery owned 
by Messrs Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Limited , Post OnceKallpahari, 
District Burdwan and their workmei, which was received by the Central Govern 
pient on the 27th October , 1989 . 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5077 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 56 OF 1969 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the management of Sripur Colllery owned by 
Messrs Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) Limited . 

AND 

Their Workmen , 
PRESENT : - - 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Omçer . 
APPEARANCES ; 

On behalf of Employers - Shri Durgapada Roy , Advocate. 

On hehalf of Workien - - Shri Mahinder Singh . 
STATE : West Benga ). 

INDUSTHY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 130 /68 -LRII , dated July 22, 1969, the Guvernment of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) , referred the following industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Sripur Colliery owned by Messrs Lodna Coillery 
Company ( 1920 ) Limited and their workmen , to this Tribunal, for adjudication , 
namely ; 
" Whcther the dismissal of Shri Abdul Barik , Head Fitter , with effect from 

the 11th November , 1968 by the management of Sripur Colliery 
Company ( 1920 ) Limited , Post Once Kalipahari, District Burdwan , 
was justified ? If not, to what relief is thew 

] entitled ? " 
2 . Neither party Aled any written statement in this matter. There was a joint 
petition of compromise Alled settling the dispute . Now that I find that the ciispute 
has been settled by the parties on the basis of the compromise , I pass an award 
in terms thereof. Let the petition of compromise torm part of this award 


Dated , Octcber 6 , 1969. 

(Sd.) B . N . BANERJEE, 

Presiding Officer . 
BEFORE THE HONOURABLE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA . 
In the matter of Reference No. 56 of 1969 . 

AND 
In the matter of parties : Employers in relation to Sripur Colliery , 


AND 


Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress ( H . M . S .) . 
In the above matter the humble parties viz ., the Company and the Union most 
respectfully shewcth and craye His Lordship s indulgence to accomodate an 
amicable settlement so effected by the parties 

1. Sri Abdul Barik has accepted the transfer and he is now working at Lodna 
Colliery haying all the emoluments so far so enjoyed by liin . 

2 . The dismissal order stands withdrawn and inoperative . The management 
agrees and shall pay 50 per cent of his wages and other benefits for the whole 
period of idleness arose out of the dispute . 

3 . T he parties are humbly praying and craving your Locdship s Indulgence and 
grace to accept this amicable settlement so effected by the parties and pass award 
to that effect and to pass an order which your Lordship will be graciously 
pleased to consider At, apt and proper if your Lordship so pleases. 

For this act of kindness , the humble parties in duty bound, shall every pray . 
For the Employers ; 

For the Workinken ; 
DURGAPADA ROY , Advocate . 

MAIINDER SINGH . 
[No. 8 / 230 / 68 -LRII. ] 


5098 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [PART II -- 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 
S . O . 4619 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Ballarpur 
Colliery of Messrs Ballarpur Collieries Company Limited , Post Office Ballarpur 
( District Chandrapur ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri G . V . Deo , as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Nagpur and refers the 
said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Messrs Ballarpur Colli 

eries Company Limited , was justified in dismissing Sarvashri Rajaram 
Ram Narayan Shukla , ex - Sand Slusher Khalasi and Anandi Ram 
Narayan Shukla , Haulage Khalasi with effect from the 17th May , 
1969 ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 

[No. 3 / 7 / 69 - LRII. ] 


S . O . 4620, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Ena 
Collfery, Post Once Dhansar , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, (No . 3 ) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
“ Whether the management of Ena Colliery is justified in suspending their 

workman Shri Munshi Prasad , underground Trammer from the 19th 
November , 1968 to the 29th November , 1968 ? If, not , to what relief 
is the workman entitled ? " . 

[No. 2 / 132 / 69 - LR . II.] 
New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
S . O . 4621. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Chora No . 10 
Pit Coiliery , Post Once Bahula , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of 
the matiers specified in the Schedule hereto annexes ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute ſur adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise oť the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Goy 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the manageinent of Chora No. 10 Pit Colliery , Post 

Office Bahula , District Burdwan in stopping Shri Lakshi Pati Deogharla , 
Register Keeper from work with effect from 25th July , 1969 is justi 
fied ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No. 6 / 72 / 69 -LRII.] 
P , C . MISRA , Under Secy , 


Sec, 3 (ii) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969/ KARTIKA 24, 1891 5079 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1969 
S . O . 4622. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 83 
of the Mines Act, 1952, ( 35 of 1952 ) , and in continuation of the notifcation of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation , 
Department of Labour and Employment No. $ . O . 3769, dated the 15th October , 
1968 , the Central Government hereby exempts the marble mines in Makarana , 
District Nagaur, Rajasthan , from all the provisions of the vald Act, for a further 
period of one year commencing from the 15th October , 1969. 

( No. 1 / 29 / 68 - M .I. ] 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Sec:y . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 5th November 1969 
$ . O . 4628 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited arid their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 1st November , 1969. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 
Dated October 24 , 1969 


PRESENT : 
Shri G . C . Agarwala — Presiding Officer . 

CASE No. CGIT /LC ( R ) (6 ) OF 1969 


PARTIES . 
Employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Limited , 

Versus 
Its workmen represented through the M . P . Bank Employees Association , 

Raipur . 
APPEARANCES ; 

For Banks, - Sri R . P . Raizada , Staff Office of the Bank . 
For Workmen .- Sri P . N . Sharma, President, M . P , Bank Employees Associa 

tion , 64, Kingsway Cantt. Jabalpur ( M . P .) 
INDUSTRY : Bank . 

DISTRICT : Gwalior (M .P .). 

AWARD 
By Notiîcation No. 23 / 127 / 68 -LRIII , dated 6th February 1969, the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) , 
Government of India referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the 
schedule to the order of reference to this Triljunal, for adjudication : 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the action of the management of the Punjab National Bank Limited , 

Naya Bazar, Lashkar , Gwalior in not alle wing annual increment to 
Shri P . C . Nagpal, Clerk -cum -Godown . Keeper in his grade from the 

25th January , 1968 was justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled 
2 . The facts are short and simple . The workman concerned , Shri P . C . Nagpal, 
was appointed as a temoprary Clerk - cum -Godown Keeper by the Bank on 25th 
January, 1965 to look after the godowns of M / s . Saund Zwerled Union Private 
Limited at the cost of the borrowers . Since he was a graduate his starting 
basic salary was Rs. 140 under the Desæi award which was in force at that 
time. With the enforcement of the Bl-partite settlement with effect from 1st 
January, 1986 his basic pay" was refxed at Rs. 154 . He continued to earn incre 
ments of Rs. 6 each , the first one on 25th January , 1966 and another one on 


1089 iHL GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 15 , 1969 / KARTIKA 24 , 1891 [Parr II-- 


26th January , 1967, thereby raising his salary to Rs , 166 . He had a continuous 
appointment without break . Subsequently , he was appointed as a probationer 
on 21st February , 1967. While appointing him as a probationer, the Bank gave 
him the initial start of Rs. 166 per month , namely , pay which he was drawing 
including increments which he had earned . He had not been appointed 
on the initial starting salary of Rs. 154. He was, however, not allowed the third 
increment on 25th January , 1968 but was allowed to draw his increment from 
21st February , 1967, the date of appointment as a probationer , with the result 
that he could druw his third increment on 21st February , 1968 instead of 25th 
January , 1968. The Union M . P . Bank Employees Association of which he was 
a member took up the dispute in conciliation and which resulted in this reference . 
The following additional issues framed in the case will show the points in con 
troversy : 

Additional Issues 
1. Whether the dispute is not an Industrial dispute ? 
2 . Was Shri Nag Pal workman concerned a temporary Godown Keeper till 

21st February , 1967 and was not entitled to graded increment as 

a Clerk before that date ? 
3 . As in order of reference ? 

Findings 
Issue No. 1. — This plea has been lightly taken without any serious effort on 
the part of the Bank to substantiate it. The Union , however, has filed docu 
ments that Sri P . C . Nagpal was a member of the Union . Exts w / 10 to W / 14 
are true copies of Membership register showing that in the years 1968 and 1969 , 
Sri P . C . Nagpal was a member of the Union . Exts . W / 4 to W / 9 are slips which 
show that the Bank used to deduct membership subscription and remit the 
same to the Union . Ex, W / 3 is membership application dated 13th September, 
1966 . This will show that Sri Nagpal became a member of the Union soon after 
he joined the service . Ex . W / 2 is a requisition signed by 20 members of 
employees of the Naya Bazar Lashkar Branch of the Bank who called upon the 
Secretary to sponsor the dispute . Sri Nagpal himself by an application dated 
7th October, 1068 ( Ex , W / 1 ) complained to the Union that he has been denied 
increment from the due date . The dispute , therefore, ceased to be an individual 
dispute but became an Industrial dispute . 

Issue No. 2 , — That Sri Nagpal was initially a temporary employee is not 
specifically denied by the Union in their rejoinder. That he was so appointed by 
the Bank is manifest by a large number of documents Aled in the case . Ex . E / 1 
is an extract from attendance register and Ex . E / 2 is also an extract from the 
supplementary salary bill for the month of January , 1965 . It would show 
that initially he was appointed in some leave arrangement but from 28th January , 
1965 , he had been appointed at borrowers cost , namely M / s . Saund Zwerled Union 
Pvt. Ltd . He continued to look after the godowns of this party throughout and 
at the borrowers cost as would appear from monthly statements submitted by 
the Bank Ex , E / 3 . Exis . E / 4 and E / 5 are two letters dated 18th May, 1966 and 
25th May , 1966 to the District Manager and the Staff Manager respectively in 
which it was intimated that Sri Nagpal will have to be detained so long the 
party continued to deal with the Bank . The original application of Sri Nagpal 
dated 1st June, 1965 would show that he had been working as a Godown -keeper 
of this arm and in another application dated 28th February, 1966 he requested to 
be absorbed permanently . It followed , therefore , that he had been at temporary . 
employee . Sri R . P . Raizada , Staff Oncer , afirmed the fact in his evidence and 
there was no cross - examination on behalf of the Union . No evidence was pro . 
duced in rebuttal by the Union . The fact, therefore , remains that he was a 
temporary Godown Keeper appointed to look after the godowns of a party and 
at the cost of the borrowers . 

The next question , however , is whether his past services could be accounted 
for towards Increments when he was appointed as a probationer by the Bank 
on 21st February, 1967. There is no specific provision in this regard either in 
the Sastry award or in the Desai award or even in the Bi- partite settlement. 
The Sastry award in paragraph 499 merely recommended that as far as possible 
such temporary godown keepers who are appointed at borrowers cost should 


mendation in paragraph 20 . 13 of the Bi-partite settlement. There is, however , 
no specific provision whether on appointment as a probationer previous services 
would count or not for the purpose of increment. When the Bank had appointed 


SEC. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 15, 1969 /KARTIKA 24, 1891 5081 


Sri Nagpal on a salary of Rs. 166 which he was drawing and not the kaitia ) 
starting pay , it is obvious that the Bank had treated his past services for the 
purpose of increment. The argument that it was a gesture of goodwill only is on 
the face of it untanable . This could not have been a gratituous and benevolent act 
on the part of the Bank . The Bank in other words seemed to have conceded 
the position that Sri Nagpal was entitled to his increments which he had already 
earned as a temporary Godown Keeper . There is no justification to postpone his 
increments just because the post of an extra Godown Keeper was sanctioned 
only in January, 1968. Nothing has been said about it in the appointment 
letter dated 21st February , 1967 ( Ex . E / 11 ) . There is no Indication in the rules 
of the Bank that a probationer will not be entitled to increments which he 
might have earned during temporary appointment. The Bank relied on an award 
recorded by this Tribunal in Reterence case No . CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 11 ) / 68 published 
in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 ( 11 ) dated August 3 , 1983 / Sravana 12, 
1890 at page 3646. That was a case of a Peon , Sri Bhanwarlal Pangaria , in 
Bhilwara Branch . The facts are quite distinguishable . It would appear that 
there had been several breaks in his service and his appointments were for short 
period as temporary peon , The Bank appointed him as a probationer and did 
not treat his past service towards his pay on fresh appointment. In this parti 
cular case Sri Nagpal had been in continuous appointment and the Bank itself 
had counted his past service while giving him a higher start as a probationer . 
As a matter of fact , another case decided by this Tribunal No , CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 22 ) /68 
which concerned the case of one Sri M , L . Anand a clerk at the Jabalpur Cantt. 
Omce of the Bank is more apposite to the facts of the present case . This cake 
is published in the Gazette of India , Part II , Sec . 3 ( ii) at page 9087 dated June 
22, 1968 / Asadha 1, 1890 . It is , therefore, held that he was entitled to the graded 
increment from 25th January , 1968 . 

Decision 
The result is that the issue under reference is answered in negative. Srt 
P . C . Nagpal is entitled to his graded Increment from 25th January, 1968 and 
not from 21st February , 1968 . The Union will be entitled to Rs. 100 as coats 
from the Bank . 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , Presiding Officer . 

24 - 10 - 1969 .. 
[No. 23 / 127 /68 / LRIII. ) 


S .O . 4624 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No. S .O . 2110 , dated the 19th June , 1967 . 

In the Table annexed to the said notification , the following Serial No. and on 
tries shall be inserted , namely : 


I 


«©28. The Labour Enforcement 

Officer (Central) , Gauhati. 


The States of Adam and Nagaland and the union 
territories of Menipur and Tripura ." 


(No. F . 1 / 76 / 89 - L - R .I.) 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd November 1989 
8 . 0 , 4625 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Beas Project, Talwara and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


5082 THE GAZ . OF INDIA : NOV , 13 , 1969 /KARTIKA 24 , 1891 (PART II — Sec. 3 (1 ) ] 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 
1947) ; the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri P . P . R . Sawhney shall be the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at Chandi 
garh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Beas Dam Project was justified in paying half 

wages to Shri Bhagat Singh , Driver , for the period of suspension 
between the 9th December 1984 and 25th January 1965 ? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 4 / 102 / 68 /LRIII.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1969 
9 .O . 4626 . In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) No. $ . O . 3810 , dated the 10th September , 1969 , published at pages 4095 -4097 
of the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( it ) for "No. S . O . 3257" 
read " No. $ . 0 , 3357 ” . 

[No. F . 1 / 51 / 89 -LRI. ] 
S . S . SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI, 1969 


