REGISTERED NO. D . 223 


1 


The Eazette 


of India 


N 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 24 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JUNE 16 , 1936 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the oth June 
1956 : — 


- 


- - 


Issue 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subjcct 


No. 


170 


S . R . O , 1288 , dated the 1st Ministry of Com - | Grant of recognition to the 
June, 1936 . 

merce and Industry Om Exchange Limited , Delhi, 

in respect of forward con 
tracts in groundnut oil. 


171 | S . R . O . 1289 , dated the 31st Ministry of Informa- | The Central Government certi 
May, 1956 . 

tion and Broadcast- fles a film to be of the descrip 
ing . 

tion ypecified therein . 
172 | S . R . O . 1290 , dated the 318t| Election Commission | Amendment made in the notifi 
May , 1956, 

India . 

cation No . 100 / 1 /31/56 ( 2 ), 

dated the 5th May , 1956 . 
S . R .O . 1291, dated the 318t|| Ditto 

Amendment made in the noti 
May , 1956 

fication No . 100 /11 / 31 / 56 ( 1) , 

dated the sth May , 1956 
173 S. R . O . 1292 , dated the 29th 

Ditto 

Amendment made in the 
May, 1956 

notification No. 62 / 26 /5T- Elcc . 
II ( 3 ) , dated the 5th November , 

1951. 
174 | S .R . O . 1293 , dated the 4th Government of Ajmer | The District Board of the State 
Junc , 1956 

of Ajmer shall consist of 44 
members, 


S . R . O . 1294 , dated the 4th 1 

funç, 1956 . 


Dito 


| List of members of the District 

Bourd of the State of Ajmer . 


195 | S . R . O . 1295, datcd the 2nd | Eelection Commis - | Amendment made in the noti 
Junc, 1956 

sion , India . 

fication No. 62 /26 /51- Elec . [ C 
(3 ), dated the 5th November 
1951. 


176 


S. R .O ., 1343 , dated the 4th 

Junc, 1956 


Ditto 


Appointment of members of the 

Election Tribunal constituted 
for the trial of the petition 
presented by Shri Rikhab 
Chand against the election of 
Maulana Abdul Shakoor as 
Member of the Council of 
State , 


- 


( 1005 ) 


1006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 . 1956 


[ PART II - Sec. 3 


Issue 


No. and date ! 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


177 


S. R .O . 1344 , dated the 7th 

June 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division ) . 


Exemption of exhaust fans, when 
imported , from so much of 
customs duty as in excess spe 

cified therein . 
Amendment made in the 

notification No . 64 - Customs, 
dated the 2nd April 1955 . 


Ditto 


| S .R .O ., 1345, dated the 7th 

June. 1956 


178 S . R . O . 1346 , dated the 8th 

June 1956 


Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture . 


The Central Government 
authorises the Collector of 
Bijnor to exercise , with 
respect to the Shiv Pra 
sad Banarsidas Sugar Mills , 
control for purpose of pro 
duction of Sugar . 


179 S . R . O . 1347 , dated the 7th Ministry of Informa- | The Central Government cert - 
June 1956 

tion and Broadcast - fies a film to be of the descrip 
ing. 

tion specified therein . 
180 | S . R . O . 1348 , dated the 7th | Election Commission Final list of candidates for elec 
June, 1956 

India . 

tion to the House of the 
People from the Shahdol- Sidhi 
con stituency . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


PART II - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 


New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 


S . R . O . 1352 . - It is hereby notified for general information that the Commis 
sion ’s notification No. 406 / AA - 2 /54, dated the 6th February , 1956 , regarding the 
withdrawal of the recognition of the Praja Party , Andhra, as a State Party for 
the purpose of allotment of symbol, published at page 178 of the Gazette of 
India , Part II - Section 3 , dated the 18th February , 1956 , is hereby cancelled . 


[No. 406 / AA - 2 / 54.] 


By Order , 


P . S. SUBRAMANIAN , Secy . 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


το19 


. 


. 


. 


4 . Allowances admissible to Deputy Chairman and Deputy Speaker . - - The 
Deputy Chairman of the Coural of States and the Deputy Speaker of the House 
of the People shall each be entitled 
( a ) on the assumption and relinquishment of his office , to such travelling 

allowances for himself and the members of his family and for the 
transport of his and his family s effects as are admissible to a Deputy 
Minister on the assumption and relinquishment of his office under the 
rules made under section 11 of the Salaries and Allowances of 

Minister s Act , 1952 (LVIII of 1952 ) , as for the time being in force ; 
( b ) in respect of tours undertaken by him in India in the discharge of his 

official duties to such travelling and daily allowances as are admissi 

ble to a Deputy Minister under the said rules; 
( c ) in respect of the journey undertaken by him from Delhi to his consti 

tuency (headquarters ) at the end of each session of the Council of 
States or the House of the People , as the case may be, and for the 
return journey to Delhi at the beginning of the next session , to 
travelling allowances (without daily allowances at the rates 

admissible under clause ( b ) ; 
( d ) in respect of tours undertaken by him outside India in the discharge 

of his official duties, to such travelling and daily allowances as the 
Central Government may, in each casei, determine . 


5 . Special provision regarding allowances paid before the commencement of 
these rules . All payments made before, the commencement of these rules to any 
officer of Parliament by way of travelling and daily allowances shall be deemed 
to have been properly made, as if the rates at which such allowances were paid 
had been fixed under these rules. 

[ No . Admn . 3 ( 203 ) /55. ] 
N . K . BHOJWANI, Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


New Delhi, the 4th June 1956 


S . R . O . 1357. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309, and clause (5 ) of article 148 , of the Constitution , the President, after 
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the follow 
ing amendment in the Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India ) , namely : -- 


After sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 10 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall 
be inserted , namely : 

" Provided that if , through oversight or otherwise the amount subscribed is 
less than the minimum subscription payable by the subscriber under sub - rules 
( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of rule 8 and if the short subscription together with the interest 
accrued thereon is not paid by the subscriber within such time as may be 
specified by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of 
which , special reasons are required under clause ( b ) or clause ( c ) of rule 12 , 
the contribution payable by the Government shall be equal to the amount 
actually paid by the subscriber or the amount normally payable by Government, 
whichever , is less, unless the Government, in any particular case, otherwise 
directs " . 

[No. F .28 (9 ) -EV / 56 .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th June 1956 
S .R . O . 1358 . - The President is pleased to direct that the following amend 
ments shall be made in Section II ( b ) - Leaving Jurisdiction of the Adminis 
trative Instructions in connection with the Fundamental Rules , as incorporated 


1020 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 18 , 1956 


[PART II - SEC, 3 


in Appendix No. 3 to Posts and Telegraphs Compilation of Fundamental and 
Supplementary Rules Volume II : 
( i ) Delete the words " British " and " or to any Indian State or Foreign 

Settlement in India " occurring in ltnes 2 and 3 respectively of 

rule 2 . 
( il ) Delete the words " or Foreign State or Settlement" occurring in rule 3 . 

{No. F .5 (30 ) E .IV /56 . ] 
J. C . SEN , Dy. Secy . 


( Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 5th June 1958 
S . R . O . 1359. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949 ( X of 1949 ) and Rule 16 of the Banking Companies Rules , 
1949, the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
India , hereby declares that the provisions of section 31 of tho said Act and Rule 
15 of the said Rules shall not apply to the undernoted banking companies in 
so far as they relate to the publication of their balance sheets and profit and 
loss accounts for the year ended the 31st December 1955 , together with the 
auditors reports in a newspaper : -- 

1. Madras City Bank Ltd ., Coimbatore. 
2. Lakshmi Banking Cohporation Ltd ., Pudukkottai. 
3 . Vasudeva Vilasam Bank Ltd ., Perintalmanna. 
4 . Kannivadi Bank Private Ltd ., Dindigul. 
5 . Koppa Bank Ltd ., Koppa . 
6 . National Banking Corporation Ltd ., Kachhwa. 
7 . Ajodhia Bank Ltd ., Faizabad . 
8 . Oudh Commercial Bank Ltd ., Faizabad. 
9 . Bank of Travancore Ltd ., Trivandrum . 
10 . Kamalodayam Bank Ltd ., Ponkunnam . 
11 . Madappally Sri Vilason Bank Ltd ., Mundakayam . 
12. Malankara Bank Ltd ., Tiruvalla . 
13. Oriental Bankers Ltd ., Munrar . 
14 . Pioneer National Bank Ltd ., Kidangoor. 
15 . Prabhatha Tharaka Band Ltd ., Kuravilangad . 
16 . Sree Vardhana Bank Ltd ., Kottayam . 
17 . Union Bank Ltd ., Alleppey . 

No. F .4 (60 )-FI/ 56, ] 
PREM NARAIN , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1056 


S . R . O . 1360 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 ( I of 1956 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri H . L . Soni, Registrar of the Judicial Commissioner s 
Court, Himachal Pradesh Simla , ex -officio , to be the Official Liquidator attached 
to that court, as a part time officer . 


[No. 2 ( 27 ) -CL - III /56 - ) 
SHIV CHARAN SINGH, Dy . Secy . 


PART U - - Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


1021 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1361. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act , 1944 ( I of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied to 
the State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments in the Central Excise Rules , 1944, namely : 

In the said rules 

I. In sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 187 for the words and brackets " Secretary , 
British Legation , Kabul ( or other person appointed by the British Minister at 
Kabul in this behalf ) ” the words and brackets " Indian Embassy at Kabul ( or 
other person appointed , by the Indian Ambassador / Charge d Affaires at Kabul 
in this behalf ) " shall be substituted ; 
II. In rule 188 
( 1 ) In sub - rule ( 1 ) , the brackets and figure “ ( 1) shall be omitted and 

for the words " His Britannic Majesty s Vice Consul" , the words 

" Indian Vice Consul" shall be substituted : 
( 2 ) sub - rule ( 2 ) shall be omitted ; 
III. rule 190 shall be omitted ; 

IV . in Appendix Için Form B .- 5 (Sec. ) ( Central Excise Series No. 27 ) , for 
the words " depositing with the Collector ” , the words " to deposit with the Collec 
tor" shall be substituted . 

[ F .No.41 / 8 /55 -CX . ) 

[ No. 6 - CER /56 . ] 
W . SALDANIIA , Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 7th June 1956 
Rules of procedure in respect of references to the Board of Referees under sub 

section ( 4 ) of section 23A of the Indian Income- tax Act 1922 . 
S . R . O . 1362. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
59 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922) , the Central Board of Revenue 
is pleased to make the following rules concerning applications for reference to 
the Board of Referees under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 23A of the said Act and 
the procedure to be followed by such Board in disposing of the applications, 
the same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 59 of the said Act: 

1. These Rules may be called the " Indian Income-tax (Board of Referees) 
Rules , 1956 " . 
2. Definitions. In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires -- - 

( a ) “ Act ” means the Indian Income -tax Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922 ) ; 
( b ) applicant means the company which applies to the Commissioner of 

Income- tax under sub -section ( 4 ) of section 23A of the Act requir 

ing him to refer its case to the Board of Referees ; 
( c ) “ application means the application made by the company to the 

Commissioner of Income- tax under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 23A 

of the Act requiring him to refer its case to the Board of Referees ; 
( d ) Board of Referees means the Board of Referees appointed by the 

Central Government in pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 23A 

of the Act ; 
( e ) Chairman of the Board means that member of the Board of 

Referees who is designated by the Central Government as the 

Chairman of the Board . 
3 . The application shall be made in Form A annexed to these Rules and 
shall be sent (together with 3 extra copies thereof and of all enclosures thereto ) 
to the Commissioner. 


I022 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


(PART II - SEC , 3 


4 . If the application is not made within the time specified in sub - section ( 4 ) 
of section 23A of the Act, thc Commissioner of Income- tax ( hereafter in these 
Rule referred to as the Commissioner ) shall not rcfer the matter to which the 
application relates to the Board of Referees . 


5 . If the application is made within the aforesaid time, the Commissioner 
shall 
( i ) within thirty days of the receipt of the application by him , report to 

the Central Government the fact of such application having been 

made , and 
(ii) within sixty days of the receipt of the application by him , draw up a 

statement of the case in respect of the matter to which the 
application relates and send it ( together with two extra copies 

thereof) to the Board of Referees for decision . 
6 . ( 1 ) The statement of the case drawn up by the Commissioner shall set out 
the relevant facts, his decision under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 23A of the Act, 
and his own opinion on any point or points urged by the applicant in the appli 
cation including his opinion on the point whether the applicant is a company 
engaged in activities of the type or types specified in sub - section ( 4 ) of section 


23A . 


( 2 ) A copy of his decision under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 23A and any other 
document or documents which the Commissioner considers relevant shall be 
appended to the Statement of the Case . 

( 3 ) One copy of the Statement of the Case shall be sent by the Commissioner 
to the applicant as soon as practicable . 

7 . The Board of Referees shall notify to the applicant and the Commissioner 
at least thirty days before the date of hearing - the date time and place ilxed 
for the hearing of the application . 

8 . Any application to the Board of Referees for adjournment of the hearing 
shall be made so as to reach the Board at least fifteen days before the date of 
hearing, but the Board of Referees may refuse to grant such an adjournment i 
they are satisfied that there are no sufficient grounds for adjournment and in 
such a case after communicating such refusal to the applicant, the Board may 
decide the reference ex - parte on its merits . 

9 . ( 1 ) Any person or persons who are eligible to represent the applicant in 
any income- tax proceedings by virtue of section 61 of the Act may , if specifically 
authorised for the purpose by the applicant, represent the applicant before the 
Board of Referces . 

( 2 ) Any officer of the Central Government or any lawyer may , if specifically 
authorised for the purpose by the Commissioner, represent the Commissioner 
before the Board of Referees . 


10 . If the Board of Referees requires any information or documents which 
are not contained in the statement of the case for deciding a reference , it may 
obtain such information or documents from the applicant or from the Com 
missioner as the case may be , 


11 . The Board of Referees shall communicato its decision 
and the Commissioner as soon as it is ready . 


to the applicant 


12 If the members of the Board of Referees disagree in their decision , the 
decision of the Chairman of the Board shall prevail and be deemed to be the 
decision of the Board of Referocs. 


13 . If by reason of any vacancy occurring in the Board of Referees on account 
of transfer , leave, or otherwise , the Central Government appoints any other 
person to fill up the vacancy , the proceedings of the Board of Referees as pre 
viously constituted shall not be invalid but the applicant shall be entitled to a 
re -hearing of his case by the Board of Referees as reconstituted , if it so demands . 


14 . Al communications intended for the Central Government or the Board of 
Referees shall be addressed to the Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Finance ( Revenue Division ) , North Block , New Delhi- 2 . 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16, 1956 


102 3 


ANNEXURE 

FORM A 
Form of Application to the Board of Referees under Section 23A (4 ) 

This .. . . . . . . .. . day of . . . . . . .. . . . . 19 In the matter of the application 
of section 23A to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(Name of the applicant company ) . 
The applicant states as follows: 

( 1 ) that the address to which notices or any other communication may be 
went to the applicant is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( 2 ) that under sub -section ( 3 ) of section 23A of the Indian Income-tax Act, 
1922 , the applicant has been required by the Commissioner of Income- tax to 
distribute before . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( date ) an amount of Rs. . . . , . . . . . . . , ag 
dividends to its shareholders in respect of the previous year ended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( 3 ) that notice of the order of the Commissioner under sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 23A was served on the applicant on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (date ) . 

( 4 ) that the applicant is an Indian company engaged in the manufacture 
of 

f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in the processing of . . . . . . . . . . . in the mining of . . . . . . . . . , 
in the generation or distribution of electricity / other than electricity ( any other 
form of power should be specified here ) . 

( 5 ) that the facts which are admitted and / or found by the Commissioner and 
which are necessary for drawing up the reference are stated in the enclosure to 
this application , 

(6 ) that in arriving at his decision under sub -section ( 3 ) of section 23A the 
Commissioner has erred in ignoring or failing to give adequate consideration to 
the following relevant points : 

1 . . . . . . . 


2 


. . . 


. . . . . 


irements 
of and other he appllo 


. . . 
3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( 7 ) that having regard to the current requirements of the applicant s business 
tfully described in the enclosure to the application ), or / and other requirements 
necessary or advisable for the maintenance and development of the applicant s 
business, 
(i ) the distribution to the shareholders in respect of the previous year of 
any dividend / any dividend cxceeding . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . would be 
unreasonable . 
( ii ) the time allowed by the Commissioner for distribution under sub 

section ( 3 ) of section 23A is unreasonably short and should be 

extended till . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( 8 ) that the applicant, therefore, requires under sub - section ( 4 ) of section 23A 
of the aforesaid Act that a statement of the case be drawn up and referred to the 
Board of Referees, 

( 9 ) that the documents or copies thereof as specified below on which the 
applicant relies in support of his case be forwarded to the Board of Referees for 
their consideration . One set of the said documents is enclosed for the purpose , 
with translation in English of the documents , where necessary . 


( ii ) 


Signed . . . . . . 

(Designation ) 
Place . . 

(Name of the applicant company ) 
I , , , , . . . . . . the . . . . 

. . (designation ) do declare that what ja 
stated in the above application is true to the best of my information and belief. 

Signed . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Note . - ( 1 ) The application shall be deemed to be accompanied by a fee of 
Rs. 100 if the said sum is paid to the Commissioner at the time of presenting the 
application cither in cash or by a crossed cheque or crossed draft payable to the 


1024 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


( PART II — Sec, 3 


Commissioner (by designation ) or if the application is accompanied by a receipt 
showing that the said sum has been remitted by money order or paid into the 
Treasury or a branch of the State Bank of India or a branch of the Reserve Batik 
of India . The amount paid in this respect shall be credited to the account of the 
Central Government under the head " IV _ Taxes on income other than ( orpora 
tion tax -Miscellaneous - Fee for reference to Board of Referees" . 

( 2 ) The application shall be signed by the principal officer of the company for 
the time being . 

[No. 41. ] 
N . H . NAQVI, Secy . 


LAND CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1363. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land 
Customs Act , 1924 (XIX of 1924 ) , the Central Board of Revenue makes the 
following further amendment in its notification No 22 - Customs, dated the 2nd 
February , 1952, namely : — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , under the heading " C - Land 
Customs arcas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of land Customs, Calcutta " . 
under the sub -heading 24 Parganas District " , after the entry "Itinda the 
following entry shall be inserted , namely : 


Jalalpur 


Across the portion of the river Ichanati lying between yillage 
Jalalpur Indian Union , and Sankta ( East Pakistan ) . 

(No. 37.] 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1958 
S .R . O . 1364. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses ( b ) and ( c ) of 
section 11 and section 63 of the Sca Customs Act , 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the notification No. 119- Customs, datçc the 9th September 1950 , namely : . 

In the Schedule anncxed to the said notification , in column 3 against 
S . No. 10 -Matwad , the following cntry shall be omitted, namely : 
" 3 , the landing placr. known as the Jalalpur - Bunder " . 

[ No. 39. 7 
W . SALDANHA , S -cy , 


of t1 


4)es, 1959ects thestate Dure 


ESTATE DUTY 

Nou Delhi, the 12th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1365 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 85 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Estate Duty 
Rules, 1953, the same having been previously published as required by sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 85 of the said Act , namely : - - 

In the said Rules - - 
For the existing rule 13, the following shall be substituted , namely - 

13 . Effect of default In complying with tho undertaking. - ( 1 ) Where any 
objects are exempler from duty in pursuance of an undertaking under sub - rulo 
( 1 ) of Rule 11 and the Board 15 satisfied that at any time during the period 
for which the undertaking was given , it has nut been observed in any material 
respect, then duty shall become payable on the value at that time of those 
objects in respect of the death on which the exemption was given . 


PART 11 - Sec. 31 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16, 1956 


1025 


( 2 ) Where liability to dụty arises under sub - rule ( 1 ) 
( ) duty shall be payable at the rate appropriate to the principal value 

of the estate passing on that death as if clauses ( i ) and ( j ) of sub 

section ( 1 ) of section 33 never applied to those objects. 
( b ) any person who, if the objects were sold when the duty becomes 

payable , would be entitled to receive (whether tor his own henetit 
or not ) the proceeds of sale or any income arising therefrom shall 

be accountable for the duty . 
( 3 ) Where any objects are sold after they become liable to duly under sub 
rule ( 1 ) in respect of any death , the proceeds of the sale shall not be liable to 
duty in respect of the same death under sub -rule ( 2 ) of Rule 11 . 


Explanatory Note 
( This note is not part of the amendnient but is intended to be merely clarifi 
catory ) . 

Rule 13 of the Estate Duty Rules, 1953 as it stands is considered to be lengthy 
as it is expressed in one sentence running Into 164 words. In order to simplify 
1t, the said rule has been split up into separate sentences without making any 
change in the substance. 

[No. 32 / 12 / 9 / 55 -E .D .] 
P . K . GHOSII, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Dellez, the 12th May 1956 , 
S . R . O . 1366 .- The following By -laws made by the Coir Board , in exercise of 
the powers conferred by Section 27 of the Coir Industry Act, 1953 ( 45 of 1953 ) , 
and confirmed by the Central Government, are hereby published , as required by 
sub - section ( 2 ) of the said Section , namely : 


BY -LAWS 

PRELIMINARY 
1. These by - laws may be called the Coir Board ( Contributory Provident Fund ) 
By -Laws, 1955. 
2 . In these By -Laws, unless the context otherwise requires: 

( a ) " The Act" means the Coir Industry Act , 1953 ( 45 of 1953) ; 
( b ) . “ Board " mcans the Cour Board constituted under section 4 ; 
( 5 ) " Chairman " means the Chairman of the Board ; 
( a ) . " Emoluments " means pay or leave salary , which includes dearness pay 

I reckoned as such by the Central Government; 
( e ) " Employee " means officer , office staff, technical staff and menial staff 

of the Board other than those whosc services are paid from 

contingencics ; ., 
( 1 ) " Family means 
(i ) in the case of a male subscriber, the wife or ,wives and children of 

the subscriber ; and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 

son of subscriber : 
Provided that if a subscriber proves that his wife has been judicially 

separatçd from him or has ceased under the customary laws of the 
community to which she belongs, to be entitled to maintenance , 
she shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the 
subscriber s family in matter s to which thesc by - laws relate unless 
the subscriber subsequently indicates by express notice in writing 

to the Secretary that she shall continue to be so regarded ; 
( ii ) in the case of a female subscriber , the husband and children of the 

subscriber, and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 
son of the subscriber ; 


Provided that if a subscriber by notice in writing to the Secretary 

expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family , the 
husband shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member 
of the subscriber s family in matters to which these by - laws relate , 
unless the subscriber subsequently cancels formally in writing her 

notice excluding him . 
NOTE 1. - Children means legitimate children . 
NOTE II.- - An adopted child shall be considered to be a child when the 

Secretary or , if any doubt arises in the mind of the Secretary , the 
Chairman , is satisfied that under the personal law of the sub 
scriber , adoption is legally recognised as conferring the status of a 

natural child , but in that case only , 
( g ) " Fund" means the Coir Board Contributory Provident Fund ; 
(h ) " Leave means any kind of leave sanctioned for the staff of the Coir 

Board ; 
(i) " Secretary " means the Secretary of the Board ; 
( j) " Year " means financial year . 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE FUND 
3. (a ) There shall be a Provident Fund for the employees of the Board not 
being : - 
( 1 ) a person in the service of the Indian Union or of a State in India whose 

services have been lent or transferred to the Board ; or 
( 2 ) a person appointed by the Board to a post created for a period of less 

than 5 years ; or 
(3 ) a probationer. 
( b ) No pensioner , Civil or Military , who continued in service or was re 
employed after thọ date from which his pension takes effect, should be admitted 
to the fund except with the previous concurrence of the Government of India . 

4 . The Fund shall be constituted and established from such date as the Chair 
man may appoint. 
5 . The Fund shall consist of - 
( 1) subscriptions and contributions which are to be carried to the Fund in 

accordance with these by - laws; 
( 2 ) such additions to the Fund as the Board may at any time and from time 

to time decide to make ; 
(3 ) the income of the Fund from loans, deposits and investments . 

NOMINATION 
6 . ( 1 ) The Secretary shall require every subscriber , as soon as may be, to 
make a nomination confering on one or more persong the right to receive the 
amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund , in the event of his death that 
amount has become payable, or having become payable has not been paid : 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination , the subscriber has 
a family , the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other 
than the members of his family . 

( 2 ) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under clause ( 1 ) he shalt 
specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees 
in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his credit 
in the Fund at any time. 

( 3 ) Every nomination shall be in such of the forms set forth in the first and 
second Schedules as is appropriate in the circumstances . 

(4 ) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in 
writing to the Secretary : 

Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh nomina 
tion made in accordance with the provisions of this by - law . 
(5 ) A subscriber may provide in a nomination 
( a ) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his pre -deceasing 

the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass to 
such other person as may be specified in the nomination ; 


Pant un sec. 3 


PART II SEC, 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


I027 


( b ) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happening 

of a contingency specified therein , provided that if at the time of 
making the nomination the subscriber has no family , he shall provide 
in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event of his 

subscqucntly acquiring a family . 
( 6 ) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has heen made in the nomination under sub - clause ( a ) of clause (5 ) , or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes invalid 
in pursuance of sub - clause ( b ) of clause ( 5 ) , or the proviso thereto , the subscriber 
shall send to the Secretary a notice in writing cancelling the nomination together 
with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions of this by - law . 

( 7 ) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a sub 
scriber to the extent that it is valid , shall take effect on the date on which it is 
received by the Secretary . 


SUBSCRIBER S ACCOUNTS 
7. An account shall be opened in the name of each subscriber in which shall be 
credited : 

(a ) the subscriber s subscriptions; 
(b ) contributions made under by -law 11 by the Board to his account; 
( c ) interest as provided by by -law 12 on subscriptions; 
(d ) interest as provided by by -law 12 on contributions; 

CONDITIONS AND RATES OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 
8 . (a ) Every subscriber shall subscribe monthly to the Fund when on duty ; 
(b ) a subscriber may, at his option , not subscribe during leave; 

( c ) the subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during the leave 
in writing to the Secretary before he goes on leave. Failure to give due and 
timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute an election to subscribe! The 
option of a subscriber intimated under this sub - clause shall be final, 

9 . ( 1) The amount of subscription to the Fund shall be at a rate of 1 / 16th of 
the monthly emoluments of the subscriber : 

Provided that it a subscriber is on duty for a part of the month and on leave 
for the remainder of that month and if he had elected not to subscribe during 
leave, the amount of subscription payable shall be proportionate to the number 
of days spent on duty in the month . 

( 2 ) The amount of subscription payable under clause ( 1 ) shall be calculated 
to the nearest whole anna, 6 pies and more counting as the neat higher anna , 


REALISATION OP SUBSCRIPTIONS 
10 . The Board shall have the power to deduct from the emoluments of any 
subscriber the subscription due from him and the principal and interest on the 
advance if any made to him from the Fund. 


CONTRIBUTION BY THE BOARD 
11. ( 1 ) The Board shall on the 31st March of every year make a contribution 
to the account of each subscriber : 

Provided that if the subscriber quits the service or dies during the year , contri 
bution shall be credited to his account for the period between the close of the 
preceding year and the date of the casualty . 

( 2 ) The contribution by the Board to the Fund shall be equal to the aggregate 
of the subscriptions of the subscriber each year . 

(3 ) The amount of contribution payable under clause ( 2 ) shall be calculated 
to the nearest whole anna, 6 pies and more counting as the next higher anna , 


INTEREST 
12 . ( 1 ) The Board shall pay to the credit of the subscriber interest at such 
rate not below the current rate of interest on Post Office Savings Bank deposits 
as the Board may from time to time prescribe , on the amount at his credit in 
the Fund . 


1028 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1936 


[ Part II - Sec, 3 


( 2 ) Interest shall be calculated on the balunce at the credit of a subscriber on 
the 31st March of the preceding year. 

( 3 ) When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has become pay 
able , interest shall thereupon be credited under this by -law in respect only af 
the period from the beginning of the current year or from the date of deposit 
as the case may be, upto the date on which the amount standing at the credit 
of the subscriber became payable . 


CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICII ACCUMULATIONS ARE PAYABLE 
13 . When a subscriber quits the service , the amount standing to his credit in 
the Fund shall, subject to any deduction under by - law 15 , become payable to him . 

14 . Subject to any deduction under by - law 15 , on the death of a subscriber 
before the amount standing to his credit has become payable , or, where the 
amount has become payable , before payment has been made - 

( 1 ) When the subscriber leaves a family 

( a ) If a nomination made by the subscriber in accordance with the provisions 
or by - law 6 in favour of a member or members of his family subsists , the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to which the nomination 
relates shall become payable to his nominee or nominees in the proportion 
specified in the nomination and in the event of such nominee or nominees pre 
deceasing the subscriber , the said amount shall become payable to the alternative 
nominee or nominees in the manner indicated in the declaration form . 

( b ) If no such nomination in favour of a member or members of the family 
of the subscriber subsists , or if such nomination relates only 10 a part of the 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund , the whole amount or the part thereof 
to which the nomination does not relate , as the case may be, shall notwith 
standing any nomination purporting to be in favour of any person other than a 
member of his family , become payable to the members of his family in cqual 
shares : 
Provided that no share shall be payable to : 

(1 ) sons who have attained majority ; 
( ii ) sons of a deceased son who have attained najority ; 
( iii ) married daughters whose husbands are alive ; 

( iv ) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive ; 
if there is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses ( i), ( u ), 
( iii ) and ( iv ) ; 

Provided also that the widow or widows and the child or children of a deceased 
son shall neceive between them in equal parts only the share which that son would 
have received , if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted from the 
provisions of sub - clause ( 1) of the first proviso . 

( 2 ) When the subscriber leaves no family , if a nomination made by him in 
accordance with the provisions of by - law 6 in favour of any person or persons 
subsists , the amount standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to 
which the nomination relates , shall become payable to his nominee or nominees 
in the proportion specified in the nomination , and in the event of such nominec 
or nominecs predeceasing the subscriber, the said amount shall become payable 
to the alternative nomince or nominees in the manner indicated in the declaration 
form . 


DEDUCTIONS 
15 . Subject to the condition that no deduction may be made which reduces 
the credit by more than the amount of any contribution by the Board with interest 
1hcreon credited under by - law jl before the amount standing to the credit of 
a subscriber in the Fund is paid out of the Fund , the Board may direct the 
deduction therefrom and payment to the Board of: 
( a ) any amount if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 

grave misconduct ; 
Provided that, if the order of dismissal is subscquently cancelled , the 

amount so deducted shall , in his reinstatement in the service , be 
replaced at his credit in the Fund ; 


PART 11 - SCC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


1029 


- - - 


( bb ) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his employment under the Board 

within five years of the commencement thereof otherwise than by 
rcason of superannuation or a declaration by competent medical 

authority that he is unfit for further service . 
( c ) any amount duc under it liability incurred by the subscriber to the 

Board . 


PAYMENT 
16 . ( 1 ) When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund 
or the balance thereof after any deduction under by - law 15 , becomes payable , it 
shall be the duty of the Secretary after satisfying himseur, when no such deduction 
has been directed under that by - law , thut no deduction is to be made, to make 
payment as provided for in these by - laws. 

( 2 ) Any person who desires to claim payment under this by -law shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Secretary . 

ADVANCES FROM THE FUND 
17 . A temporary advance may be granted to a subscriber from the amount 
standing to his crcdit in the Fund at the discretion of the Secretary subject to 
the following conditions :-- 

( a ) No advance shall be granted unless the Secretary is satisficd that the 
applicant s pecuniary circumstances justify it , and that it will be expended on 
the following object or objects and not otherwise 
( i ) to pay expenses incurred in connection with the prolonged illness of 

the applicant or any person actually depending on him ; 
( ii ) to pay for the overseas passage for reasons of health or education of 

the applicant or any person actually depending on him ; 
( iii ) to pay obligatory experises on a scale appropriate to the applicant s 

status in connection with marriages , lunerals, or ceremonies which 

by his religion it is incumbent on him to perform . 
( b ) An advance shall not, except for special reasons, exceed three months 
pay and shall, in no case, exceed the amount of subscriptions and interest thcreon 
standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund . 


( c ) An advance shall not, except for special reasons, be granted until at least 
twelve months after the final repayment of all previous advances together with 
interest thereon , unless the amount already advanced does not exceed two- thirds 
of the amount admissible under clause ( b ) . 

( d ) The Secretary shall record in writing his reason for granting the advance : 

Provided that if the reason is of a confidential nature it may be communicated 
to the Secretary personally and / or confidentially . 

18 . ( 1 ) An advance shall be recovered from the subscriber in such number 
of cqual monthly instalment as the Secretary may direct , but such number shall 
not be less than twelve unless the subscriber so elects , or in any case more than 
twenty - four. A subscriber, may , at his option make repayments in a smaller 
number of instalments than that prescribed . Each instalment shall be a number 
of whole rupees , the amount of the advance being raiscd or reduced , if necessary , 
to admit of the fixation of such instalments . 

( 2 ) Recovery shall be made in the manner provided in by - law 10 and shall 
commence from the first occasion after the advance is made, on which the sub 
scriber draws enolliments , other than the leave salary, for a full month . 
Recoveries shall not be made, coxcept with the subscriber s consent while he is 
on leave and may be postponed by the Secretary during the recovery of an 
advance of pay granted to the subscriber , 

( 3 ) If more than one advance has been made to a subscriber each advance 
shall be treated separately for the purpose of recovery . 

( 4 ) ( a ) After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid , interest 
shall be paid theicoli at the rate of one - fifth per cent of the principal for each 
mouth or broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and 
complete repayment of the principal. 

( b ) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in one instalment in the month 
after complete repayment of the principal but, if the period referred to in sub 
clause ( a ) exceeds twenty months, interest may, if the subscriber so desires, be 


1030 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1958 


[ PART II Sec . 3 


ręcovered in two equal monthly instalments . The method of recovery shall be 
that provided in clause ( 2 ) Payments shall be rounded to the nearest anna in the 
manner provided in clause ( 3 ) of by - law 11 . 


(5 ) If an advance has been granted to a subscriber and drawn by him and 
the advance is subsequently disallowed before repayment is completed , the whole 
or balance of the amount withdrawn , shall, with interest at the rate provided 
in by - law 12 ( 1 ) , forthwith be repaid by the subscriber to the Fund or in default 
be ordered by the Secretary to be recovered by deduction from the emoluments 
of the subscriber by instalments or otherwise as may be directed by the 
Secretary 


(8 ) Recoveries made under this by -law shall be credited , as they are made , 
to the subscribers account in the Fund . 


PROCHURE 


19 . ( 1 ) All sums paid into the Fund under these by - laws shall be accounted 
for in the Books of the Board in an account named " The Coir Board Contributory 
Provident Fund" . 


( 2 ) Such accounts shall be examined and audited annually by the auditors 
appointed by the Government under the Act. 


(3 ) All expenses of the Fund shall be met by the Board from the income of 
the Fund . 


( 4 ) The custody and disbursal of the Fund shall be regulated in accordance 
with by - lawg 21, 22 and 23 of the Coir Board ( Transaction of Business , 
Conditions of service of employees and maintenance of Accounts ) By - Laws, 1955 . 


20 . ( 1 ) As soon as possible after the 31st March of each year , the Secretary 
shall send to each subscriber a statement of his account in the Funds, showing 
the opening balance as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or 
debited during the year , the total amount of interest credited as on 31st March 
of the year and the closing balance of that date. The Secretary shall attach to 
the statement of account an enquiry whether the subscriber 


at datateregthe tots , then the 


(a ) desires to make any alternation in any nomination made under by - law 


6 ; 


(b ) has acquired a family ( in case where the subscriber has made no 

nomination in favour of a member of his family under clause ( 2 ) of 
by - law 6 ) . 


( 2 ) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement, and errors should be brought to the notice of the Secretary within one 
month from the date of receipt of the statement . 

21. All applications under these by -laws shall be addressed to the Secretary, 
Coir Board . 

22 . Every subscriber shall sign an agreement set forth in the third Schedule 
annexed to these by - laws agreeing to abide and bound by these by -laws. 

23 . ( 1 ) The Fund shall be wound up on the dissolution of the Board . 

( 2 ) On the winding up of the Fund , the assets shall be reallged and distributed 
amongst subscribers in accordance with their accounts . 

FIRST SCHEDULE 
Vide By- law 6 (3) 

Forms of Nomination 
I. When the subscriber bag a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominato the person mentioned below , who is a member of my family as defined in 
rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules, ( India ) to receive the amount that may stand to 


DIA , JUNE 16 , 1966 


. - , 


JI 


1031 


my credit in the Fund , in the event of my death before that amount has become payable , or having 
become payablc , has not been paid : 


Name & address of 

nomince 


Age 


Relationship 

with subs 
criber 


Contingencies on the 
happening of which 
the nomination shall 
become inyalld 


Name, address & 
relationship of the 
perion , if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pags in the event of 
his predeceasing the 
subscriber 


Date this . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of. . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . 19 


Signature of Subscriber . . . .. . . 


Two witnesses to signature : 


II. When the subscriber has a ſemily and wishes to nominate more than one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the personsmentioned below who are members ofmy family as defined in 
| 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules( India ) to receive the amount that may stand to my 
credit in the Fund , in the event of my death before that amount has become payable or having 
becomcpayable has not been paid and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the 
Hid persons in the manner shown belw against their names : 


Age 


Name & Address Relationship 
of nominces with sub 

scriber 


Amount or share Contingencies Name, address 
of accumula on the hap & relationship 
tions to be paid pening of which of the person , 
to cach 

thе nomina if any , to whom 
tion shall be the right of the 
come invalid . nomince shall 

pasg in the event 
of his predo 
ceasing the sub 

scriber . 


Dated this . . . . .. 
1 . , at . . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . day of .. . . . . . . 


. . . . . 19 


Signature of Subscriber . ... . . . 


Two witacases to signature : 


NOTE .-- This column should be fillęd in so as to cover the whole amount that may stend to the 

credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 


1032 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1958 


[PART II SEC . 3 


- 


SECOND SCHEDULE 

[ Vide By -law 6 ( 3) 1 

Forms of Nomination 
T . When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person . 

I , having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India ) 
hereby nominate the person mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit 
in the Fund , in the event ofmy death before that amount has become payable , or having becomc 
payable -has not been paid :- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Namc & address of nyininee. Relacionship Age 

with 
subscriber . 


Contingencies on 
the happening of 
which the nomina - 
tion shall become in 

valid . 


Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person , if any, to 
whom the right of the 
nomince shall pass in 
the cvent of his pre 
deceasing the sub 

scriber . 


- 


e 


Dated this . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . 


. . . 19 


at . . . . . . 


at . 


. 


. . 


. . . . . 


. . 


. 


. 


! 


Signature of Subscriber . . . . . . . 


Two witnesses to signature :- - 

I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


NOTE . - -Whec a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall specify in this column 

that the nomination shall beconic invalid In the event of luis subscquently acquiring a family 
II. When the subscnber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one person . 

1 , having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules ( India 
hereby nominate the persons mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand 10 my credit in 
the Fund , in the event of iny death before the amount has becomo payable , or having become 
payable fras not been paid , and direct that the said amount sliall be distributed among the said per 
sons in the manner shown below against their naines : 


Name & address 
of nominccs . 


Kelationship Age. 
With sub 
scsiber . 


Contingencies * Name, addrcss & 
* Amount or on the happen - relationship of the per 
share of ing of which son , if any, to whom 
accumula - the nomination the right of the nomi 
tions to be shall become in - nec shall pags in the 
paid to cach . valid . 

event of his predecea . 
sing the subscriber. 


- 


- 


Dated this . . . . . . . . . 
At . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . .day of . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . 19 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 

Signu1116 of Subscriber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 


Two witnesses lo signatuie ; 


* Notl . — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that may stand to the 

credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 
* * Noth . - Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination , he shall specify in this 

colunn that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently 
acquiring a lamily . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART II-- $ 1.c. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16, 1956 

1033 
- - - - = 

THIRD SCHEDULE 
l ide By -law 22 ) 

Forin of Agreement. 
I hereby declare that I have read the Coir Board Pruvident Fund hy -laws, and thai I agree to 
abide and be bound by them . 
Date . . . . . . . . : . . . . . . . . day of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . 

. . . . . . at . . . . . . 


Na 


Date of birth . . . 
Date of joining appointment . . . . . . 

Illc1L . ••••••••••• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . … . . . . . . . . . . … . . . . . . … 
Salary per mensem . , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rupees 


. , 


Signacute . . . . . . . . 


Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Two witnesses to Signalure . 


ERNAKULAM ; 

Date , 


Secretary . 


[ No . 42.LI ( B ) ( 31) /55 ) 
P . C , ALEXANDER , Dy. Secy, 


New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S .R . O . 1367 . — The following amendment in the Central Tea Board ( Provident 
Fund ) By laws, 1952, made by the Tea Board in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 50 of the Tea Act , 1953 ( 29 of 1953 ) , is hereby con 
firmed by the Central Government as required by sub -section ( 2 ) of the said 
section and published for general information , namely ! 

To by - law 4 of the said by -laws, the following further proviso shall be added 
at the end, namely :-- - 
" Provided further that no person , who has retired from Government 

Service on a retiring or superannuation pension , shall, if he is re 
employed in a post under the Board , be eligible to subscribe to the 
Fund without the previous sanction of the Central Government." 

[No. 47 ( 6 ) Plant/56. ) 


RUBBER CONTROJ, 

New Delhi, the 12th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1368. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 4 ) of section 12 of the Rubber Act, 1947 (XXIV of 1947 ) , the Rubber Board hereby 
Axes the periods from 1st April 1956 to 30th September , 1956, and from 1st 
October 1956 to 31st March , 1957, as the periods in respect of which assessment 
shall be made for the period 1st April, 1956 to 31st March , 1957 of the amount of 
duty of Fixcise fixed under the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 1664 , dated the 1st August. 1955. 


KOTTAYAM ; 
The 22nd May , 1956 . 


N . KRISIINA PILLAI, 

Secretary . 


[ No. 20 (5 ) Plant/56.] 
P , V . RAMASWAMY, Under Sery. 


1034 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 [PART II - SEC, 3 

--- -- - - - 
New Delhi, the 13th June , 1956 
S . R . O . 1369 . - ESS .COMM / IRON & STELL - 2 ( c ) / AM ( 2 ) , -- In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control ) 
Order , 1956 , the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following furthe 
amendment shall be made in the Notification of the Government of India in the 
14 istry of Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O 1112 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL 
2 ( c ) , published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , dated the 12th May , 
1956 , as amended from time to time, namely — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification for the entrics 
" BILASPUR 

Civil Supplies Officer Bilaspur , 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 24 (6 ), 24 ( c ) 
Simla Hills . 

& 24 (d ). 
HIMACHAL Director of Civil Supplies, 

4 , 5 and 23. 
PRADESH 

Himachal Pradesh , Simla . 
District Agricultural Officers, 286 ) & (C ) (For Tron 
Govt. of Himachal Pradesh , 

and Steel only ) . " 
Simla . 
The following entrics , in the respective columns, shall he substituted , namely : 
* Himachal Pradesh 1. Director of Civil Supplies , 4 , 5 , 18 , 20 , 23 , 24 (6 ), 

Himachal Pradesh , Simla . 24 .) and 24 ). 
District Agricultural Officers, 4 , 5 and 28 (6 ) & ( c ) 

Govt. of Himachal Pradesh . (For Iron and Steel only 
3 . District Cooperative and Supplies 

4 , $, 18, 20 , 24(b ), 24 (c) 
Officers , Government of Himachal 

and 24( d ). 
Pradesh . 

[No. SC (A ) -4 (253! B .) 
S . R . O . 1370 . - - ESS . COMM / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) / Am ( 1 ) .-- In exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub - clause ( c ) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 
1956 , the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment 
shall be made in the Notifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry No. S . R . O . 1112 / ESS .COMM / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) , publish 
ed in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , dated the 12th May , 1956 , namely : - - 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , in Column 2 thereof, against 
PUNJAB , for the entry 

" 2. Deputy Director, Controlled Commodities, Government of Punjab , Simla ." , 
the following entry shall be substituted 
" 2. Deputy Director , Supplies , Government of Punjab , Simla." 

[No. I & S ( A ) -4 ( 253) . ] 
PS. V . RACHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 16th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1371. - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by clause 4 of the 
Cotton Control Order , 1955 (notification No. S . R . O . 2308 , dated the 13th October, 
1955 ) and in supersession of notification No. S . R . O . 1613 , dated the 22nd July 
1955, I hereby prescribe that contracts for the sale or purchase of Indian cotton 
produced during the cotton season 1955 -50 , shall be subject to the following 
restrictions and conditions, namely : 
( 1 ) No person shall enter into a contract for the sale or purchase of cotton 

at a price less than the minimum price or more than the maximum 
price as fixed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 of the 
said Order in respect of Indian cotton produced during the cotton 
scason 1955 - 56 , as applicable to the subject matter of the contract, 

having regard to the place of delivery thereunder ; 
( 2 ) No person shall enter into a contract of sale with an overseas buyer 

for the purposes of export unless he holds a valid export licence ; 


PART II — $ EC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


1035 


( 3 ) Every contract in which the final price is not named shall be construed 

as iſ the following clauber Was inserted therein , namely : 
the price payable shall be within the range of the minimum and the 

maximum prices fixed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 
of the Cotton Control Order , 1955 , in respect of Indian cotton 
produced during the cotton scasoni 1955 - 56 

Sd . / - V . NANJAFVA , 

Textile Commissioner . 
[ No. 24 ( 22 )-CT( A )/ 55 -7.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 9th June , 1956 
S . R . O . 1372 . - In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry s Notification No. 
S . R . O . 2243 dated the 6th October , 1955 , published at pages 2215 - - 2225 of the 
Gazette of India , xtraordinary , Part II — Section 3 , dated the 8th October , 1955 : 
( 1) at page 2225 , for " Rs. 20 " printed in the entry against item ( viii) in 
Note 2 , read " Rs. 50 " . 

şd ./ - V . NANJAPPA , 
Textile Commissioner . 


[No. 24 (23 ) -CT ( A ) /55 - 3.) 
S . A , TECKCHANDANI Dy. Secy . 


. 


4 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1373 . - IDRA / 6 / 2 /Am ( 4 ) , In pursuance of rule 8 of the Development 
Councils ( Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri K . C . Maitra , Messrs . Sankoy Electrical Stampings Ltd ., Bombay , as a member 
of the Development Council established for the scheduled industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of electric motors and of machinery and equip 
ment for the generation , transmission and distribution of electric energy ( exclud 
ing house service meters and panel instruments ) , in place of Mr. A . R . Driessen , 
who has resigned , and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No . S . R . O . 854 / IDRA / 6 / 2 , dated the 1st February 1955 , namely : 

In paragraph 1 of the said Order, under the category of members " being persons 
who in the opinion of the Central Government are capable of representing the 
interests of owners of industrial undertakings in the said schedule industries ," for 
entry No. 5A , the following entry shall be substituted , numely : 

" 5A . Shri K , C , Maitra , Messrs. Sankey Electrical Stampings Ltd ., Bombay ." 


[No. 5 ( 16 ) IA (GB) / 56 .] 
R . N . KAPUR , Under Secy . 


— 


— 


- — 


— 


— 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- -- 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 4th June 1956 


S . R . O . 1374 .- ln pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( s ) of Section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 ( IX of 1946 ), the Central Government 
is pleased to notify the appointment of Shri A . Balarami Reddy , Member , Rajya 
Sabha, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committce pice Shri Valiuri 
Venketaramana . 

[No. 6 - 12 /56 - Com .1.] 


1036 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 [PART II - SEC, 3 
- - - - - - - - - - 

CORRIGENDUM 

( Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S . R . O , 1375 — In this Ministry Notifcation of even number, dated the 25th May , 
1956 ; for the words within brackets appearing under the heading " Schedule " 
substitute the following: - 
" ( Information to be furnished by Ginning and Pressiny Factories . 

Factories which do not intend to work during 1956 - 57 scuson must 
clearly mention so at the top of this form ) " . 

[NO. F 1- 87 /56 - ComJI ] 

MOKAND LALL , Under Secy . 
- - - - - - 

-- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1950 
SR . O . 1376 . -- In pursuance of clauses ( 8 ) and ( 13 ) ( b ) of rule 2 of the Indian 
Port Health Rules, 1935 , the Central Government hereby declares the diseases 
mentioned below to be infectious diseases, and the period of incubation in res 
pect of these shall be as indicated against euch , namely : 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
Infectious Jiseaser 

Period of incubation 


- - - 


. 


. 


14 dayı , 


Chickenpox , 
Cerebrospinal meningitis 
Diphtheria . . 
Inõuenzal Pneumonia 
- - - 

- - -- - - - - 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


10 days . 
7 days . 
5 days. 


- - 


- 


- - 


[ No . F . 15- 2 /56 -IH . ] 
A , T , SESHADRI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 
S .R . O 1377 . The following draft of a further amendment to the Drugs Rules , 
1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make in cxercise of the powers 
conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs Act, 1940 ( 23 of 1940 ) ( consequent 
on the proposal to notify under sub - clause ( ii ) of clause ( b ) of section 3 of the 
said Act the substances specified below to be drugs ), is published as 
required by the said sections for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 6th September, 1956 . 

( a ) Chemical contraceptives. 
( b ) The following Insecticides : 

( i) Benzene Hexachloride and its preparations, 
( ii) Dicophane ( Dichloro Dipheny 1 Trichlorethane ) and its preparations. 

( iii) Pyrethrum and its preparations. 
2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by 
the Central Government 

DRAFT AMENDMENTS 
In the said Rules, after rule 124, the following rulr shall be added , namely : 
" 125 ( a ) Standards for substances (other than food ) intended to affect the 

structure or any function of the human body . 
Chemical Contraceptives. 
The standards for these shall he the formula approved as safe by the 

Central Goveinment and displayed in the prescribed manner on the 
Jalel on the container. 


PART II - Sec. 31 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDLA , JUNE 16, 1956 


1037 


( b ) Standards for substances intided to be used in the destruction of 

vermin 07 insects which cause disease in human beings or aniinals, 
Insecticides . 
The standards for these substances shall be the standards of identity , 

purity and strength prescribed in the British Pharmacopoeia or the 
British Pharmaceutical Codex or any other prescribed pharmo 
copoeia or the formula or list of ingredients displayed in the pres 
cribed manner on the label on the container " . 

[No. F . 1 -44 / 55 - D .] 
T . V . ANANTANARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1378 . It is hereby notified for general information that in partial 
modification of this Ministry s notification No. F . 4 - 1 /54 -LSG dated the 24th 
March , 1954 and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( e ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Delhi Joint Water and Scwage Board Act , 1926, (XXIII 
of 1926 ) road with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the rules made thereunder, the 
Central Government have nominated Dr. M . S . Chandha , Director of Health 
Services , Delhi Statc , as a member of the Board in place of Shri Balbir Singh 
Saigal, Superintending Engineer , (Delhi State ) , who has resigned with effect 
Trom the 22nd March , 1956 . 

[No . F .37- 24 /56 -LSG . ] 

A . V . VENKATASUBBAN , Dy. Secy . 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 8th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1379. — In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 6 of the Bombay 
Port Trust Act, 1879 ( Bombay Act VI of 1879 ) , the Central Governmeni hereby 
publishes the following return received from the Secretary , Bonibay Chamber of 
Commerce , namely : 

Return showing the none of the gentleinan vlected by the Bombay Chamber 
of Commerce in accordance with the provisions of the Bomhu . Port Trust Act , 
1879 to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bumbay during the 
absence on leap of Shri S . 12 , Scott . 

- - - - 
Date of clection Name of the gentleman 

Panel of Commercial 

interests represented 


- - 


- - 


- 


28th May, 1956 . 


Sliri B . W . Malcolm . 


Oil 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


[No. 8 .C -PI (61 ) / 56 ] 
K , BALAKRISHNAN Under Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S .R . O . 1380, — In exercise of the powers conferred by scction 52 of the Delhi 
Rond Transport Authority Act, 1950. ( XIII [ 1950 ) , the Central Government here 
hy makes the following further annendment in the Delhi Road Transport Autho 
rity (Functions and Duties of the General Manager and Chiof Accounts Officer ) 
Rules, 1952 , namcly : 

For sub -rule (2 ) of rule 4 of the said Rules the following shall be substituted 
namely : 
" ( 2 ) The Chief Acronuts Oncer shall give his comments on every new 

proposal having a financial implication going before the General 


1038 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


[ PART II — Sec, 3 


Manager and his views on such proposal shall not be over - ruled ex 
cept with the permission of the Authority . He shall also have the 
right to refer to the Authority any matter having a financial implica 
tion which , in his opinion , ought to be brought to its notice " . 

[No. 18- TAG ( 23 ) / 54.] 
K . NARAYANAN , Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 7th June 1956 


S . R . O . 1381 — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Schedule to the 
Code of Civil Pocedure , 1908 (Act V of 1908 ) the Central Government hereby appoints the officers . 
specified in column 1 of the table below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the solarie 
and allowances of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in cloumn 2 of the said tabls 
shall be sent. 


TABLE 


Officers to whom notice should be sent 


Officers whose salaries and allowances are 

attached 


AccountantGeneral, Central Revenues, New Delhi Gazetted Officers in the Department of 

Explosives, New Delhi. 
Deputy Chief Inspector of Explosives, Department Non -Gazetted Officers in the Department 
of Explosives , New Delhi, 

of Explosives , New Delhi, 
Accountant Gencral, Bombay . . . , Gazetted Officers in the office of the Ing 

pector of Explosives , West Circle, Bombay . 
Inspector of Explosives, West Circle, Bombay . Non -Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives, West Circle , 

Bombay . 
AccountantGeneral, West Bengal, Calcutta Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives East Circle , 

Calcutta . 
Inspector of Explosives, Aagt Circle , Calcutta . . Non-Gazetted officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives, East Circle 

Calcutta . 
Accountant General, Madras . . . . Gazetted Officers in the Office of the 

Inspector of Explosives, South Circle , 

Madras , 
Inspector of Explosives, South Circle , Madras . Non -Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives, South Circle, 

Madras. 
Accountant General, Uttar Pradesh , Allahabad , Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives, North Circle, 

Agra , 
Inspector of Explosives, North Circle , Agra . . Non- Ģezetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives , North Circle 

Agra . 
Accountant General,Madhya Pradesh , Nagpur , Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives , Central Circle 

Nagpur . 
Inspector of Explogiyes, Central Circle , Nagpur . Non -Gazetted Officers in the office of the 

Inspector of Explosives , Central Circle, 

Nagpur . 
Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry of Works, Gazetted Officers in the Petroleum Division , 
Housing and Supply , New Delhi. 

New Delhi. 
Deputy Petroleum Officer, Petroleum Division , Non -Gazetted Officers in the Petroleum 
New Delhi, 

Division , New Delhi, 


- 


- - 


- 


[No. S & PII- Exp - 17 (6 ) 56 .] 


C . A , SUBRAHMANYAM , Dy. Secy . 


PART II Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16, 1088 


1039 


New Delhi, the 7th June . 1956 
S . R . O . 1382 . - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of Scction of the Government 
Premises ( Eviction ) Act , 1950, (XXVII of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby 
authorises Regional Settlement Commissioners , all Additional Regional Settle 
ment Comniissioners and all Managing Officers under the Ministry of Rehabilita 
tion , within their respective jurisdictions to perform the functions of a competent 
puthority under the said Act in respect of the acquired evacuee property and the 
Government built property of the Central or State Governments in connection 
with the rehabilitation of displaced persons, 

[No. 13 / 8 / 66- WII.) 


New Delhi, the 11th June , 1956 
S . R . O . 1383 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Govern 
ment Premises ( Eviction ) Act (XXVII of 1950 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the power conferred upon it to hear appeals under section 5 of the 
sạid Act shall, in relation to an appeal from an order of a Regional Settlement 
Commissioner , an Additional Regional Settlement Commissioner or a Managing 
Omcer under the Ministry of Rehabilitation be exercisable by the Chief Settlement 
Commissioner under the Ministry of Rehabilitation . 

[No. 13 / 8 / 56 -WII- A .) 
M , S . RAM , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1384 . — In pursuance of rule 160 of the Indian Aircraft Rules . 1937. the 
Central Government is pleased to extend for a further period upto the 31st 
December 1956 , the exemption granted in the order of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Communications No . 10 - A / 2 -51, dated 14th March 1952 , to Indian 
registered aircraft engaged in international public transport froin the operation 
of clause ( a ) of sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 33 of the said Rules, subject to the conditions 
specified at ( ii ) to ( vi ) in the said order . 


2 . This exemption shall apply to fight between India and Pakistan , Nepal 
or Ceylon or such other destination as may be approved by the Director General 
of Civil Aviation . 


[No. 10 - A / 1- 56 .] 
D . R . KOHLI, Under Secy . 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 


New Delhi, the 5th June 1956 


S . R . O . 1385 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 50 of the 
Administration of Evacuce Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central 
Govenment hcrcby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the 
Administration of Evacuee Property (Central ) Rules, 1950 , namely : 
In sub - rule ( 7) of rule 31 of the said Rules, the figure 5 shall be omitted . 

[No. 42 -I ( 25 ) / 55 - Prop.I.] 

J. J. KARAM , Under Secy. 
New Delhi, the 6th June 1988 


S . R . O . 1386 . In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the 
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 , ( V of 1908 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the officers specified in column ( 1 ) of the table 


S 


1040 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1958 [ PART 11 - SEC . 

= 

- = 
below as officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries ind allow 
ances of the officers specified in the corresponding cntries in column ( 2 ) of the 
said table shall be sent: 

TABLE 


Officers to whom noticcy should 
be sent. 

- - ~ - - 


Officers whose salarics and alloworces 

are attached . 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


, 


Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry 

of Rehab Iſtation , New Delhi, 


Under Secretary (Administiation ) 

Ministry of Rehabilitation (Main 
Secretariat), New Delhi. 


Gazetted Officers, in the Ministry of 
Rehabilitation (Main Secictariat) New 

Delhi. 
Non - gazetted olhoors in tlie Ministry of 
Rehabilitation (Main Secretariat ), New 
Delhi, 

[No. F .5 / 18 / 50 - Admn .] 
K . P . MISRA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 7th June , 1956. 
S . R . O . 1387. - In exercise of the powers confcrrcd by section 52 of the Admi 
nistration of Evacucc Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby declares that with cffcct from the date of this notification the pro 
visions of the said Act shall coasc to apply to or in relation to the class of pro 
perty described in the Schedule . 


TIC SCHEDULE 
Any agricultural land or a kutcha house situated in the Alwar or Bharatpur 
district of the State of Rajasthan , the possession of which has been restored to 
any Meo belonging to either of the said districts who migrated to Pakistan . 
but who returned to India before the 18th day of October 1949 for permanent 
re - settlement in India , 

[ No. 2 (176 )/ 52-Prop.I.] 
P . G . ZACHARIAHI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 8th June, 1956 . 
S .R . O . 1388 . - In this Ministry s Notification No. 10 / 16 /56 -SII dated the 22nd 
May , 1956 , for " Shri Roop Chandra " appearing as the name of the Custodian of 
Evacuee Property , Uttar Pradesh , read " Shri Rup Chandra " . 

[No. 10 / 16 /50 -S . II. ] 
New Delhi, the 11th June , 1956 
S . R . O . 1989. - In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( I ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government horoby appoints Shri G . B . Lalwani, as Assistant 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the said Act , with cffect from the date he took charge of 
his office , 

[ No . 5 / 19/56 -SII (II ). ] 
KULWANT SINGH , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 . 
S R . O . 1390 , - In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (5 ) of section 
5 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act , 1948 ( IX of 1948 ) , the 


PART II Sec , 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16, 1936 


1041 


- - - 


- - - - 


Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Dock Workers ( Advisory Committee ) Rules, 1949, namely : 
Attor rule 5 of the said rules the following rulc shall be inscricd , namely : 
“ 5 - 4 . Reconstitution of the Committee. - The Central Government may 

reconstituto the Conimittee under rule 3 as amended by the notifi 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
No. S . R . O . 1276 , dated the 23rd May, 1956 and when the Committee 
is so reconstituted , the term of office of the members of the Com 
mittee then cxisting shall expire” . 

No. DC - 106 . ] 
K , N , NAMBIAR , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th June , 1956 
S . R . O . 1391. - In pursuance of sub - clause ( 3 ) of clause 4 of the Calcutta Dock 
Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Scheme, 1951, the Central Government 
has appointed Shri Ph . H . Rogaar with effect from the 11th May , 1950 , as a 
member of the Calcutta Dock Labour Board in the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Shri W . R . B . Sample with effect from that date , and directs that 
the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, No. S . R . O . 1908 , dated the 7th September , 
1955 , namely : 
" Plemhers representing the employers of dock workers and shipping companies." 
For itcm (3 ), the following item shall be substituted , namely : - 
" ( 3 ) Shri Ph . H . Rogaar , Representative of the Calcutta Liners Conference , 

Calcutta / U . S . A . Conference , Calcutta continental Conference and the 
Bay of Bengal / Japan / Bay of Bengal Conferencc" . 

[ CDLB ( 2 ) ( 4 ) 56 . 1 
[ F , No. Fuc . 74 (64 ) / 56 . ] 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1392 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
8 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 ( XIX of 1925 ) , the Central Government hereby 
adds to the Schedule to the said Act the name of the following public institution , 
namely : 
" The Madras Dock Labour Bourd . established under the Madras Dock 
Workers ( Regulation of Employinent) Scheme, 1952" . 

[No. Fac. 76 ( 16 ) ( i) . 


S . R . O . 1393 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
is of the Provident Fund Act 1925 (XX of 1925 ) . tle Cuitral Guvernment hereby 
directs that the provision of the said Act shall apply to the Provident Funds 
Ostalilished for the benciit of the employees of the Madras Dock Labour Board 
including the cmployees of the Administrative Body established under the Madras 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1952 , and the reserve pool 
workers registered under the said Scheme." 

[ No, Fac.76 ( 16 ) ( ii ) . ) 


S . R . O . 1394 .- - Whercas thici Central Government is satisfied th :11 the cmployees 
in the Repairs and Maintenance Workshop belonging to the Overseas Communica 
tions Service , Central Telegraph Office, Bombay , under the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Communications are in receipt of benefits substantially similar 
or superior to thc benefits provided under the Employecs State Ilisurance Act, 
1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby cixeipts the said factory from all the pro 
visions of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 23rd 
June, 1956 . 


[No, F .HI- 6 (67) / 58. ] 


1042 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC , 3 


New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1398. — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in each of the workshops of the Central Tractor Organisation at New Delhi and 
Bniragarh under the Ministry of Food and Agriculture , are in receipt of benefits 
substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( XXXIV of 1948 ) ; 

Now , therefore , in cxcrcise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts each of the said workshops from all 
the provisions of the said Act for a further period of one year with cffect from 
the 7th July , 1956 , in continuation of Notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 1546 , dated the 7th July , 1956 . 

[No. F .SS .138 ( 21 ) Pt.II.] 


New Delhi, thc 12th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1396 . - - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in the Transport Depot of the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta arc in 
receipt of bcncfits substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under 
the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts the said Depot from all the pro 
visions of the said Act . 

[No. HI-6 (36 ) / 56 . ] 
B . R . KHANNA , Under Secy . 


- 


+ Necy . 


New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 
S .R . O . 1397. - - In pursuance of paragraph of the Employees Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hercby appoints Shri N . C . Maitra , Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, to be the 
member of the Regional Committee for the state of West Bengal And directs 
that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O . 1278 , dated the 27th June, 
1953 , namely : 

In the said notification , for item ( 2 ) , the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" ( 2 ) Shri N . C . Maitra , Deputy Secretary to thc Government of West 
Bengal, Labour Department, Calcutta ." 

[PF . 45 ( 12 ) / 56 . ] 


S . R . O . 1398 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 ( XLVI of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendinents in the 
Coal Mincs Provident Fund Schcmę, namely : 

In the said Scheme, to sub -paragraph (3 ) of paragraph 33 , the following 
proviso shall be added , namely : - 
" Provided that the Commissioner may direct that any payment under 

this paragraph shall he made in one or the other modes specified 
in clauses (i ) to ( iv ) of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) of paragraph 33A of this 
Scheme." 

[PF . 2 ( 104 ) / 56 . 1 


S . R . O . 1899. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 13 of the Employees , Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Ved Prakash Mahajan , Provident 
Fund Inspector , to be an Inspector for the State of Punjab and Himachal 
Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder . 
in relation to factories engaged in a controlled industry or in an industry con 
nected with a mine or an oilfield . 

[PF, 31 ( 188 ) / 56. ] 


Part II: - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 

1043 
: : - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1400. — In pursuance of Paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Employees Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
further amendmcuit shall be made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, No . S . R . O . 1861, dated the 31st October, 1952, namely : 

In the said notification for item 10 , the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : - - 
" 10 . Shri P , K . Mistry , The Associated Cement Companies Ltd ., 1, Queens 
Road , Bombay - i ." 

[No. PF - 33 ( 18 ) 56 .] 


S . R . O . 1401. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) and in supersession 
of notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. PF -616 
( 184 ) ( 1 ) , dated the 28th September 1954 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri A . Ramirnurthi, Labour Commissioner , Andhru , to be an Inspector for the 
whole of the State of Andhra for the purposes of the said Act and of any scheme 
made thereunder , in relation to fuctories within that State engaged in a controlled 
industry or in an industry connected with a mine or an oilfield . 

[ No . PF- 31 (210 ) / 56 .) 


S . R . O . 1402. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the dispute between the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta , and its workmen . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 25 of 1955 . 


PIESENT : 

Shri P . S . Bindra , B .A ., LL . B ., Chairman . 
PARTIES . 
The management in relation to the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Post Box No . 158 , Calcutta , 

AND 
Their workmen represented by Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpora 
tion (Calcutta Branch ) Indian Staff Union . 

APPEARANCES : 
Shri Dhire: dra Nath De, Secretary , Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpo 

ration ( Calcutta Branch ) Indian Staff Union , 31, Dalhousi Square, 
Calcutta and Shri Pravat Kar , President, Bengal Provincial Bank 

Employees Assoriation for the workmen . 
No appearance on behalf of the management. 

AWARD 
The Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , has referred 
the industrial dispute between the management in relation to the Hongkong & 
Shanghai Banking Corporation , Calcutta and the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank 
ing Corporation , (Calcutta Branch ) Indian Staff Union , relating to the termina 
tion of services of Shri Kartick Chandra Scal, to this Tribunal by virtue of Gov . 
ernment Notification No. LR . 100 ( 21 ) /55, dated the 5th October , 1955 . 


2 . Usual notices were issued and the parties fled their respective written 
statements . The case was fixed for final disposal for 28th May 1956 at the Central 
Government Hostel, Alipore , Calcutta , On the date of hearing Shri Kartick 
Chandra Seal appeured along with Shri Dhirendra Nath De, Secretary , Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch ) Indian Staff Union and 
Shri Pravat Kar, President, Bengal Provincial Bank Employees Association . No 
body appeared on behalf of the management, Shri Mullik , solicitor of Messrs . 
Sanderson Morgan Solicitors , was present who stated that he would represent the 
management and prayed that the case be adjourned to next day . He had no 


1044 . THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 16 , 1956 (PART II - Sec. 33 
- - - 
power of attorney and the union also objected to the appearance of a lawyer . 
Under the circumstances , the union prayed that exparte proceedings to be taken 
against the management. [ however adjourned the case to 29th May and it wus 
fixed at 11. 30 a . m ., at the request of Shri Mullik , who undertook to inform the 
management. On the 29th May , 1956 , the case was called at 11.30 a . m ., but though 
the workman concerned was present along with Shri Dhirendra Nath De and 
Shri Pravat Kar, but no body appeared on behalf of the management. The case 
was adjourned for half an hour to await the arrival of inny body on behalf of the 
managenient, but none turned up, so exparte proceedings were taken against the 
managernent. 

3 . Shri Kartick Chandra Seal joined the service of the Bank us a temporary 
Sircar on 22nd December , 1952, and was served with a notice of discharge on 25th 
February , 1955 , terminating his services with ellect from 28th February , 
1955 . He was allowed to have one months Sulary in lieu of notice . 
The case of the munagement is that as he was a temporary Godown Sircar , 8 
the Bank could terminate his services without assigning any reason . It was also 
stated in the written statement that his services were terminated on account of 
the closure of the particular section of work for which temporary Godown Sircars 
were required , this fact has however not been established . On the other hand it 
has been proved by the union that Shri Anil Chandra Bhor was l ecruited by the 
Bank on 1st March , 1955 as a poddar in cash department. Shri Kartick Chandra 
Seal had been in service of the Bank for more than two yells and his services 
could not be dispensed with , without making out a case for retrenchinent, which 
the management has failed to do. Under the circumstances the notice of termina 
tion of services is illegal and he is entitled to continue in the service of the Bank . 
Even after the services of the notice he has been attending the office all along and 
the Bank has been paying his wages . 

I pass my award accordingly . 
The 30th May , 1956 . 

( Sd .) P . S . BINDRA , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 

[ No . LR - 100 ( 21) /55.] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1403. Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute cxists or is apprchended between the employers in re l ition to the 
mica mines of Messrs . Duduwala and Company, Bhilwara , and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annuntu ; 

And Whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and clauso 
( c ) of sub - scction ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1911 ( XIV 
of 1947 ) , and in supersession of the Order of the Governm nt oſ índia in the 
Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 2170 dated the 27th September , 1955 , the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri Anand 
Narain Kaul, R . J . S . (Higher ) , Judge , Industrial Tribunal, Rajasthan , Jaipur, 
shall be the sole member and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
said Tribunal. 


SCHĘDULE 
1. Bonus at the rate of four months wages for the year 1951 - 52 and 

1952 - 53, 
2 . Quarterly bonus of 15 days wages per quarter for the year 1945 -46 

to 1947 - 48 . 
3. Increased wages for cutters, underground workers and surface workers . 
4 . Grant of annual increments and refixation of pay . 
5 . Grant of one month s privilcge leave and 15 days casual leave in a 
year to the monthly paid staff. 

[ No. LR -2 (50) / 55 .] 


Part 1 — BEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 18, 1980 


1045 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1956 
S . R . O . 1404 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispule exists between the Punjab and Sind Bank , Limited , and its workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dispute 
for adjudication : 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section : read with 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri Rameshwar Dayal, 
Additional District and Sessions Judge, Delhi, shall be the sole Member and refers 
to him the said dispute for adjudicauon . 


SCHEDULE 
Alleged wrongful termination of the services of Sarvashri Harbhajan Singh , 
Prem Singh and Harnam Singh and the relief, if any, to which they are entitled . 

[No . LR - 10 ( 10 )56.] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


No . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th June, 1956 
S . R . O . 1405 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 
1951, and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 943, dated the 16th April, 
1956, the Central Government hereby re - appoints after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors Shri Radha Raman , M . P . As a member of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from the 1st March , 
1986 . 

(No. 14 / 1 / 55 -FC. ] 


S . R . O . 1406. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 
9 read with sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 872 , dated the 6th April, 1956 , the 
Central Government hereby re -appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shrimati Dr. Seeta Parmanand , M . P ., as a member of 
the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 1st March , 
1956 . 

[No. 14 / 1/85- FC .) 


New Delhi, the 8th June 1966 


S . R . O . 1407 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule o 
read with sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951. 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 1005 , dated the 23rd April 1958 , 
the Central Government hereby re - appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shri Tajamul Hussain , as a member of the Advisory 
Penel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 1st March , 1956 . 


(No. 14 / 1 / 58 -FC . ] 


8 .R . O . 1408.-- It is hereby notifled for general Information that Shri M . N . 
Kapur, a member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 
at Madras shall retire under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship ) Rules, 1951, with effect from the 12th June , 1968. 

( No. 14 / 1/56- FC .] 


1046 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , JUNE 18 , 1939 


[PART II - SCC, 3 


S . R .O . 1409. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub -rule ( 3 ) of rue lo vi the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1951, 
the Central Government hereby re -appoints aller consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shu AI, N . hdpw as a memnur 01 tnc Advisory Panel of 
te sdld Board at Madras with elesi niom the laun June 1y5o . 

[ No. 14 / 1 /56- FC .) 


S . R . O . 1410 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
read with sub - rwę ( 3 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, 
and in supersession on the Nouncation of the Government ot India in the Ministry 
of Intoination and Broadcasting On . S . R . O . 1006 , 1116 and 1171 dated the 23. d 
April, sulh April, and luth May, 1900 respectively , the Central Government 
helepy re - appoints after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors the 
following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at 
Bombay with effect from the dates indicated against their names:- - 

1. Shri Krishna Kripalani- 1st March , 1956 . 
2 . Shrimati Gopa Bhardwaj 4th March , 1956. 
3 . Shri A . N . Basu — 1st March , 1956 . 

[No. 14 / 1 / 56 - FC .) 
D . R . KHANNA, Under Secy 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS . 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHL 1956 


