रजिस्ट्री सं०डी०222 


KEGISTEXED No: D . 221 


- 


- 


- 


मापून मला 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of Jadia 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


सं० 291 
No, 29 ) 


मई दिल्ली, शनिवार, जुलाई 20, 1968 / प्राषाढ़ 29, 1890 
NEW DBL HI, SATURDAY , JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may bo Olod 

UR coparate compilation. 

- : -. . - - 

मोटिस 
NOTICE 


- 


- - 


- . .. .. . . . - . - 


- 


मीचे लिखे भारत के प्रसाधारण राजपत्र 8 जुलाई , 1968 तक प्रकाशित किये गये । 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 8th July, 
1968 : 


- - 


- 


. . 


.. 


- - 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Issue 

No. 


Subject 


232 S . O . 2329, dated 2nd July , Ministry of Labour , An Industrial dispute · between 
1968 . 

Employment and the management of Chapui 
Rehabilitation. 

Khas Colliery , Post Office 
Kalipahari, District Burdwan 
and their Workmen represent 
ed by the Colliery Mazdoor 
Congress ( HMS) Bengal Hotel, 
of each party . 


239 S .O . 2430 , dated 

1968. 


2nd July , Ministry of Finance 


Notifying the Public Provident Fund 

as a Provident Fund , 


S . O . 2431, dared 2nd July, Ministry of Finance 
____ 1968. 


Notifying the Public Provident 

Fund as a Provident Fund . 


S . O . 2432, dated 2nd July , Ministry of Finance Notifying the public Provident 
1968. 

Fund as a Provident Fund . 


( 34037 


3404 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


(PART II 


- - SS 


Issue 
No. 


No, and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


234 S.O . 2433, dated 3rd July , Ministry of Railways Appointment of Shri Sridhar 
1968 . 

Chandra Ray , District and Sessiori 
Judge , Jalpaiguri and Derjee 
ling as Claims Commissioner , 


रेल मंत्रालय 


एस० प्रो० 2434 दिनांक 3 

ar 1968 1 


जलपाईगुड़ी और दाजिलिंग क डिस्ट्रिक्ट 
एवं सेशनजज, श्री श्रीधर चन्द्र राय को 
दावा कमिश्नर नियुक्त करना । 


25 sogas,due tout 


235 S .O . 2435, dated 

1968, 


6th July , Ministry of Home 

Affairs . 


Appointing the 10th day of July , 

1968 as the datc on which thc 
Civil Defence Act , 1968 shalt 
come into force in the whole of 
India . 


236 S . O . 2436 , dated 

1968 , 


6th July , Ministry of Commerce Further amendments to the Ex 

ports (Control) Order, 1968 . 


S .O . 2437, dated 6th 

1968 . 


July , Ministry of Commerce Further amendments to the Ex 

ports (Control). Order , 1968 , 


S .O . 2438 , dated 6th 

1968 . 


July , Ministry of Commerce Further amendments to the Ex 

ports ( Control) Order, 1968 . 


237 $ . O . 2439 , dat - d 8th July , Ministry of Labour, Notifying for the information 
1968. 

Employment and of the employers and the Work 
Rehabilitation . 

inen mentioned in Notification 
No. S . O . 2272 , dated 20th June, 
1968 that the persons making 
the said refercnce represented 
the majority of cach party . 


238 S.O . 2440 , dated 8th 

1968 , 


July , Ministry of Commer- Quality Control and preshipnrent 
ce. 

inspection of Sodium Citrate . 


239 S . O . 2441, dated 

1968. 


8th July , Ministry of Informa - Approval of the films as specified 

tion and Broadcast- therein . 
ing. 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जायेंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक क पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की 
तारीख से 10 दिन के अन्दर पहुंच जाने चाहिए । 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue at 
these Gazettes . 


SEC. 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 . 1968/ ASADHA 29, 1890 


3405 


- 


- 


- 


I II - S - type ( ii) 

PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section (ii). 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विषिक प्रावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Caion Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 8th July 1968 
S . O . 2546 . In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act . 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 3rd 
May , 1968 by the High Court of Judicature at patna in Election Petition No. 23 of 
1967 

ELECTION PETITION No . 23 OF 1967 
In the matter of an application under sections 80 and 81 of the Representation 
ot the People Act, 1951 . 
Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha - Petitioner . 

Versus 
Shri Nagendra Prasad Yaday and others - Respondents. 
For the petitioner : Messrs Pradyumna Narain Sinha , Yogendra Mishra , J . 

Krishna Vasistha Nr. Choudhury, K , N . Keshav , Rama Raman , M . Dayal, 

Sameshwar Dayal and Kumar Hari Narain Singh . 
For the respondent No . 1 : Messrs Kanhalya Pd . Verma and Kamla Kant Prasad, 

PRESENT : 

The Hon ble Mr. Justice G . N . Prasad, 
This is an election petition under sections 80 and 81 of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951, hereinafter referred to as the Act , calling in question the elec 
tion of Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav ( respondent No. 1 ) to the Lok Sabha held in 
February, 1967 from Sitamarhi Parliamentary Constituency No. 11 , and seeking a 
further declaration that the petitioner has been duly elected from this constituency . 

2 . This Parliamentary constituency is comprised of slx Assembly constituencies 
as follows: 

(1) Şitamarhi Assembly constituency No. 67, 
(11) Bathanaha Assembly constituency No. 68 , 
( 113) Sheohar Assembly constituency No. 70 , 
(Iv ) Majorganj Assembly constituency No. 71, 
(v ) Sonbarsa Assembly constituency No. 72 and 
( vi) Şursand Assembly constituency No. 73 . 


The dates of poll in the different Assembly constituencles were as follows: 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


: - 


- 


Date of Poll 


Name of Assembly coustituency 


. 


. . . . . 


- - 


- - - 


-- - - - 


- 


. 


- 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


17- 2 - 1967 
19 - 2- 1957 
21-2 -1967 


. 
, 
. 


Sheohar 
. Sursand and Sitamarhi 

Majorgani, Sonbarsa and Bathanaha 


- - 


- 


- 


3.106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 

. - ..- " -- -- - 

- - - - - - 
Besides, there was re-poll on 23 -2 -1967 at booth Nos. 16 and 43 of Bathanaha 
Assembly constituency . 

3. The countings of ballot papers were held in Sitamarhi Court premises on 
three dates as follows : 


. . . . 


. 


- . . 


- - 


- 


Date of counting Assembly constituency 

- -- - - - 
23-2 - 1967 . 

Sursand 
24 - 2 - 1967 . Shcohar 
24 -2 - 1967 . Majorganj 
25 -2- 1967 . . Sitaniarhi 
25-2 - 1967 . . . Sonbarsa 
25 -2 - 1967 . . Bathanaha 

- -- . ..-. - - - . . - — - - 
On 26 - 2 - 1967 , the postal ballots , which were four in number, were counted and on 
the same day the results of the election were declared by the Returning Officer , 
who was the District Magistrate of Muzaffarpur. It was announced that the 
different candidates had secured the following number of votes : 
(i) Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha 

. . 1,40 ,820 votes 
(petitioner) 
( ii) Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav 

. .. 1, 41, 337 votes 
( respondent No. 1) 
( ili ) Shri Jai Kishore Narain Singh 

34,004 votes 
( respondent No . 2 ) 
( iv ) Shri Bhagwan Sao ( respondent No. 3 ) 

31,469 votes 
( v ) Shri Satya Narain Prasad ( respondent No. 4 ) 

. .. 12 , 740 votes 
( vi) Shri Satyanarain Sharma (respondent No. 5 ) ... 4 ,018 votes 
Accordingly , respondent No . 1, who was found to have secured the majority of valid 
votes, was declared to have been elected . 

4 . Immediately , thereafter, the petitioner, who had lost the election by a margin 
of 517 votes, Aled a petition (Ext . 2 ) before the Returning Officer for a re - count of 
the ballot papers on the ground that various types of irregularities and Illegalities 
had been committed at the stage of counting of ballot papers , but the petition for 
re- count was rejected . The present election petition was, accordingly , Aled in this 
Court on the 11th April, 1967. 

5 . The election petition contains 57 paragraphs, but it is necessary to refer to 
only two sets of averments contained therein . It is alleged , in the first place , that 
the counting of the ballot papers was not done in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act and the Conduct of the Election Rules , 1961, inasmuch as various kinds of 
irregularities and illegalities were committed in the counting of votes of each of 
the six Assembly constituencies . A large number of votes polled in favour of the 
petitioner were rejected and some votes polled in his favour were mixed up with 
the votes polled in favour of the other candidates , including respondents 1 and 2 . 
The ballot boxes were neither brought on the counting tables , nor they were shown 
to the counting agents before being opened . Both Shri K . B . Saxena, the Assistant 
Returning Officer who had conducted the counting of the ballot papers of Sheohar , 
Sitamarhi and Bathanaha Assembly constituencies and Shri S , Choudhary, who had 
conducted the counting of the ballot papers of the remaining three Assembly con 
stituencies , were inimical to the petitioner , and as such they conducted the counting 
of votes in a manner prejudicial to the interest of the petitioner. The counting of 
Bathanaha ballot papers was continued beyond 8 P .M . without adequate lighting 
arrangement in the counting hall. At each counting table three persons used to 
scrutinise and count the ballot papers simultaneously , thereby making it impossible 
for the counting agents of the petitioner to examine whether the scrutiny and sort 
ing of the ballot papers were being done properly or not. Several of the counting 
agents of the petitioner had raised protests and complaints about the Irregular or 
illegal procedure of counting, but they were not heeded . Sometimes there were not 
exchange of words between the counting party and the Assistant Returning 


Sec . 8(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /AŞADHA 29, 1890 


3407 


Oficers , on the one hand, and the counting agents , on the other , which the peti 
tioner used to pacify by telllng the counting agents that they should abide by the 
decision of the Assistant Returning OHcers as the wrongs committed by them were 
liable to be rectified on inspection by the High Court. Nevertheless , the counting 
agents of the petitioner brought to the notice of the petitioner from their me 
mories as they were not allowed to take any notes in the name of secrecy of ballot 
papers - various types of irregularities and illegalities in the matter of counting of 
ballot papers of each of the six Assembly constituencies . As a result of such Ille 
galities committed by the Assistant Returning Officers , more than 2000 valid votes 
cast in favour of the petitioner were rejected as invalid and more than 2000 votes 
cast in his favour and in favour of other candidates were fixed up with the votes 
of respondent no. 1. Certain test checks were held at the instance of the petitioner 
and mistakes were found to have been committed in sorting out the ballot papers 
which were corrected . The petitioner , accordingly , had " reasons to believe that if 
inspection and re -counting is ordered and it the improperly accepted votes are 
excluded and improperly rejected votes are included in the votes, of the petitioner, 
the respondent No. 1 will be found to have polled less as compared to the peti 
tioner . Thus the election has been materially affected by the improper acceptance 
and rejection of votes by the persons concerned and hasty and unchecked counting 
( Paragraph 35 ) . Regarding such Irregularities and arbitrary action of the Assistant 
Returning Officers, the petitioner lodged complaint and prayed for recounting before 
the Assistant Returning Officer on 25 - 2 - 1967, but that was dismissed in the absence 
of the petitioner without hearing him . Thereupon the petitioner filed another peti 
tion for re - counting before the Returning Omcer on 26 - 2 - 1967, but that was 
summarily rejected orally without giving any opportunity to the petitioner of being 
heard either personally or through his counsel, Allegations about these facts are 
contained in paragraphs 14 . 15 and 17 to 39 of the election petition , 

6 . The second set of averments , which is relevant for the present purposes , is 
that contained in paragraph 51 of the election petition which reads : 
" That respondent no . 1 published false statement maligning petitioner know 

ing it to be false even without the knowledge of the signatories . The 
leaflet in question was calculated to prejudice the prospects of the 
petitioner and related to his personal character . A true copy of the 
leaflet is enclosed and marked X for identification . This was printed 
and published on behalf of respondent No . 1 at Sarvodaya Press 
Şitamarhi and was distributed by respondent No . 1 himself and through 
hiş agents . The detalls are given in schedule VI nf this petition which 

forms part of this petition ." 
7 . Schedule VI is in the following terms: 

" SCHEDULE VI. 
Details of corrupt practices adopted by respondent No . 1 — The respondent No . I 
got leaflets ( A copy of the same enclosed below and marked X for identification ) 
printed at Sarvodaya Press , Sitamarhi making false allegation against Thakur Jugal 
Kishore Sinha and got them distributed in the constituency details of the same are 
given below : 


- - . - 


- . . 


. 


. 


- - 


Name of the distrihutors 


Places of distribution 


Date 


. 


I. Sitamarhi 
2 . Majorgani 
3 . Barlarwa 


T6 - 2 - 67 to 19 - 2 -67 
16 - 2 -67 to 21 - 2 -67 
16 - 2 -67 to 21 - 2 - 67 


1 . Shri Nagendru Pd . Yadava , 

(Respondent No. 1 ) 
2 . Shri Chandeshwar Yadava 

Village Chak Mahila , 

P . S . Sitamarhi 
3 . Shri Surendra Pd , Yadava . 

Village Kharka 

P . S . Sitamathi 
4 . Santokhi Rai, . . . 

Village Parsa 

P . S . Majorganj 
5 . Nagendra Ral Yadav 


. 


4 . Bairgania 


, 


5 . Akhta 


3 .108 


" HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [Part II.-- 

= = = = = 
No. Name of the distributors Places of distribution 

Date 
- 
6 . Ram Narayan Rai Yadav , . 6. Sursani 

16 - 2 -67 to 19 -2 - 67 
7 . Adya Kumar all of village Ranjitpur 7 . Ranjitpur 

P . S . Sitamarhi 
8 . Mahendra Rai Yadav . 

8 . Piprahi ( Shcoher) 16 - 2-67 to 17 -2 -67 
Mukhiya of Khairwa Govind Pan 

chayat, P . S . Sitamarhi 
9 . Yogendra Rai Yadav of village 9 . Parihar 

16 - 2 -67 to 19 - 2 -67 
Panchhor P . S . Sitamarhi 
10 . Gudar Rai of Village Naniari 10 . Riga 

16 - 2 -67 to 21 -2 - 67 
P . S , Sitamarhi 
II, Yogendra Pd . Yaday of village 

16 - 2 -67 10 19 - 2- 67 
Muhani P . S . Majorganj 
12. Head Clerk , C . D .C .M . Union 11 . Dumra 

16 - 2 -67 to 19 - 2 -67 
Sitamarhi 
13 . Shri Ram Naresh 

Assis ant Clerk both of Sitamarhi 
Cooperative Development Cane 
Marketing Union . 


8 . The leaflet marked X for identification is printed in Hindi, but an English 
translation thereof has been appended to the election petition , and it is in the 
following terms : 

" Appeal to the voter - Brotheren of Sitamarhi Parliamentary constituency . 
Brothers, 

We want to draw the attention of you people to the incident of Basbitta Bazar. 
This incident took place at 2 P . M . on 14 - 2 - 1967. Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha , after 
seeing his worseping condition , went out of temper and got the properties worth 
about one lac of the Traders of Bashitta Bazar looted through his Lathlals 
(miscreants ) and got the progagandists of Congress badly assaulted . Those people 
were in a mob of two thousand , armed with Lathis , Bhalas and two guns. As a 
result of this incident, Ijazul Mian , son of Rahiman Mian , of village Basbitta , is 
in a precarious condition and he is confined to death bed in the hospital, Besides 
this , Ramprasad Mahto s Mill was also got broken . This was worth Rs. 7 ,000 / -- 
Those looters set fire in the sugarcane Aeld of Shreo Rameshwar Mahato , resident 
of village Bhaluahia and threatened to set the village also on fire All these matters 
are against the principle of democracy . Under democracy, every body has got the 
right of security of property and life. Therefore , we appeal to you gentlemen that 
for the safety of democracy, you should cast your every vote in favour of the Con 
gress candidate , so that he becomes victorious and do not vote on the tree symbol 
of Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha , who is an atrocious candidate (an incarnate or 
Ravan and Kansh ). 

Yours , 
1. Mister Prasad Sah 
2 . Dharamdeo Pandey 
3 . Ram Surat Pandey 
4 . Khalecl Mian 
5 . Munif Mian 
6 . Sitaram Pandey 
7. Jagarnath Mishra 
8 . Ramprasad Mahto 
9 . Bhadai Sah 
10 . Bhagwan Das 
11. Rajendra Das 
12. Vishwambhar 
13 . Vishwanath Prasad 


. 


Şarvodaya Press , Sitamarhi: 
Phone :— 132 ." 


SEC . 3 (1) ] 


TJIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3409 


9 . Out of the six respondents, only respondent No. 1 has appeared and entered 
contest . In a written statement extending over 67 paragraphs, he has denied 
each and every allegation made in the election petition , The allegation with 
respect to illegalities and irregularities in the counting of ballot papers have 
been denied in paragraphs 14 to 145 of the written statement. The allegation 
made in paragraph 51 of the election petition has been denied in paragraph 57 
of the written statement in the following terms: 
" That the allegation made in paragraph 51 of the Election Petition is not 

correct and is denied . The Respondent No. 1 never published any 
false statement against the petitioner . He never got the leaflet 
marked X printed or published . The contents of marked X does 
not indicate any fact relating to the personal character of the peti 
tioner. It is not correct to say that the leaflet like X was printed 
and published on behalf of the Respondent No. 1, Such leaflet was 
neither printed nor" distributed by or on behalf of Respondent No. 1." 


In paragraph 58 , it has been stated ; 
" That the so - called detail given in schedule VI is wrong and is concocted , 

Respondent No. 1 or the person named in schedule VI never distri 
huted the alleged leaflet at any place and on any date mentioned 

in that schedule. " 
10 . A recriminatory petition has also been filed by respondent No. 1 , and a 
written statement to the recriminatory petition has been filed by the petitioner, 
But it is not necessary to refer to these documents as the recriminatory petition 
has not been pressed at the trial, 


11. At the instance of the parties, seven issues were framed on the 30th 
October , 1967, but issue Nos. 1 , 2 and 6 were not pressed at the final hearing , 
and as such they need not be referred to . Issues Nos . 3 , 4 , 5 and 7 are in the 
following terms: 


3. Did respondent No. 1 , his election agent and other agents, with his 

consent and connivance , commit corrupt practices of ( i ) undue 
influence , ( ii ) impersonation and ( iii) false publication about the 
conduct of the petitioner knowing it to be false a s alleged in the 
clection petition ? Il so , has the election of respondent No . 1 been 

materially affected thereby ? 
4 . Was there any improper and illegal reception and rejection of votes at 

the time of poll and counting in favour of respondent No. 1 and the 
petitioner as alleged in the election petition and the recriminatory 
petition ? If so , was the result of the election materially affected 
thereby ? 


5 . Did the Assistant Returning Officer and the Counting Officer adopt 

illegal method of counting and , thereby , a large number of valid 
votos cast in favour of the petitioner were rejected is invalid votes 
and a large number of votes cast in favour of the petitioner were 
mixed up with the votes of respondent No. 1 and other candidates ? 
If so , has the result of the election of respondent No . 1 been 

materially affected thereby ? 
7 . Is the election of respondent No . 1 void and is the petitioner entitled 

to be declared elected ? 


12 . In issue No . 3 , however, the question relating to commission of corrupt 
practices of ( i) undue influence and ( ii ) impersonation was not pressed . Simi 
larly , in issue No, 4 . the question relating to improper and illegal reception and 
rejection of votes at the time of poll was not pressed . Therefore, substantially 
two questions fall to be determined in this case : 
1 . Whether the results of the election , in so far as it concerns the returned 

candidate , have been materially affected by the improper reception , 
refusal or rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which 
is void , and whether the petitioner has received the majority of 

valid votes; and , 
2 . Whether respondent No . 1 or any other person with his consent or any 

of his agents other than his election agent, acting in his interest, 


3410 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20, 1968/AŞADHA 29 , 1890 


(PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


committed a corrupt practice within the meaning of sub - section ( 4 ) 

of section 123 of the Act which reads : 
" ( 4 ) The publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other person 

with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, of any state 
ment of fact which is false , and which he either believes to be 
false or does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of any candidate or in relation to the candi 
dature , or withdrawal of any candidate , being a statement reason 
ably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate s 

election ." 
13 . In support of his case on the first of these two questions, the petitioner 
has relied upon his own evidence ( P . W . 29 ) , supported by the evidence of 21 of 
his counting agents . He also brought on the record the petition (Ext. 3 ) which 
he had Aled before the Assistant Returning Officer at Sitamarhi on the 25th 
February 1967. Out of the two petitions which he claims to have filled before 
the Returning Officer of Muzaffarpur on the 26th February , 1967 , he has proved 
only one which has been marked Ext. 2 . All the materials upon which the 
petitioner has relied in support of this part of his case have been dealt with in 
my order dated the 23rd of April, 1968 , whereby I have rejected a petition 
presented before me by him to permit him to inspect the ballot papers with a 
view to enable him to bring the relevant ballot papers on the record as exhibits 
in suport of his case . It is , therefore, unnecessary to make a fresh discussion of 
the evidence upon which the petitioner has relied for the purpose of proving 
that it is he , and not respondent No. 1, who has secured the majority of valid 
votes. I have referred in my said order to the terms in which the petitioner 
had filed Ext. 3 before the Assistant Returning Officer on 25th February , 1967. 
It will be noticed that even in paragraph 35 of the election petition , which I 
have quoted above , the petitioner has not been able to assert with confidence 
that he has , in fact, received the majority of valid votes, In my order dated 
23rd April , 1968 , I have shown that the petitioner s case on this point is contra 
dictory , inasmuch as , on the one hand he has complained about denial of oppor 
tunity to his counting agents for noticing whether the scrutiny and sorting of 
ballot papers were being properly done or not, and on the other, he claims 
to have learnt from those very persons specific details of different categories of 
llegalities and irregularities in the matter of counting of ballot papers relating 
to a large number of specific booths, not one of which was mentioned by him 
in his petition for re - count on the 26th February , 1967. I am , therefore , of the 
opinion that for the reasons which I have already given , which I need not repeat 
at length here, the petitioner s case based upon illegalities and irregularities in 
the matter of counting of votes must fail. 

14 . Learned counsel for the petitioner , however , contended that even in the 
absence of the ballot papers on the record , the petitioner is entitled to succeed 
because his evidence makes out a prima facie case that the result of the election , 
so far as It concerns respondent No. 1 , has been materially affected by reason 
of improper reception , refusal or rejection of a large number of votes or by the 
reception of void votes in his favour, and so the onus to disprove it has shifted 
upon respondent No. 1 . In my opinion , the onus cannot shift in such a matter , 
particularly when the evidence which the petitioner has adduced on the point 
is not at all acceptable . It is for the petitioner to prove affirmatively that on 
such grounds, the result of the election has been materially affected , and this 
the petitioner has failed to provę. It was also contended that since the recri 
minatory petition , which has not been pressed , also contained similar allegations 
about irregularities and illegalities in the matter of counting of the ballot papers , 
the petitioner s case on the point must be accepted . I am unable to accede to this 
contention also . The recriminatory petition did not contain any admission of 
the petitioner s case about such illegalities or irregularities. It merely contained 
assertion of other Irregularities and illegalities , that is to say , in regard to matters 
allecting the validity of the ballot papers counted in favour of the petitioner . It 
is not the petitioner s case that there were irregularities and illegalities in count 
ing of the ballot papers in his favour also . I, therefore , hold that the petitioner 
is not entitled to a declaration either in terms of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) or section 101 
of the Act . 

15 . I now turn to the second branch of the petitioner s case, namely , that of 
commission of corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 
As pointed out by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Kumara Nand v . 
Brli Mohan Lal Sharma ( A . I. R . 1967 Supreme Court 808 ) , the petitioner has to 
prove the following facts ; ( i) that the offending leaflet (Material Ext. I ) was 


Sec. $ (11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 

3411 
= ..-- -- - - 

- 
printed or published by or at the instance of respondent, ( ii) that it contained 
some statement of fact, ( iii) that the fact was false, ( iv ) that the respondent 
No. I believed it to be false or did not believe it to be true, ( v ) that the state 
ment was in relation to the personal character or conduct of the petitioner , and 
( vi ) that the statement was reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of 
the petitioner s election , 


16 . Therefore, the vital question which has to be decided is whether the 
petitioner has succeeded in proving that the offending leaflet was printed or 
published by respondent No. 1 or at his instance . To prove his case that it 
was printed at the instance of respondent No. 1 , the petitioner has examined 
P . W . 21, who is a resident of village, Mathwa, police station Sitamarhi. This 
witness has deposed to the following facts ; ( i ) the ottending leaflet was printed 
in the Sarvodaya Press at Sitamarhi, where he was in employment as a com 
positor from 26th January , 1965 to 29th March , 1967 , ( ii) pamphlets of respondent 
No . 1 were printed at that press on the occasion of the last general election , ( iii) 
it was he who composed the offending pamphlet at 9 a . m , at the time of its 
printing , ( iv ) after composing it, he got 2000 copies of this pamphlet printed at 
that press, 1000 copies of blue paper and 1000 copies of yellow paper , ( v ) thereafter 
he personally delivered the printed matter to respondent No . 1 and Chandeshwar 
Babu on Wednesday , ( vi ) he had seen the original draft of the pamphlet, on the 
back of which something else was also written , ( vii) the pamphlet Ext. I is one 
of the copies thus printed , ( viii ) the credit memo ( Ext. 1 ) was Alled in by the 
proprictor of the press , Shri Bishnu Prasad Khemka, and it bears his signature 
at two places. Commending the evidence of P . W . 21, learned counsel for the 
petitioner contended before me that it constitutes the best evidence which 
could possibly be given to prove the fact of printing of the offending pamphlet 
at the instance of respondent No . 1, being the evidence of an employee of the 
press who had not only seen the original draft, but had also composed the 
printing matter and had delivered it to respondent No . 1 himself. It seems 
to me, however , that it is difficult to accept the evidence which P . W . 21 has given , 
Ilis claim that he was in employment of the Sarvodaya Press at the relevant 
time, is open to grave doubt. When he was cited as a witness in the list of the 
witnesses filed by the petitioner in this Court on the 21st November, 1967, he 
was not described as an employee . or ex - employee of the Sarvodaya Press . In 
Court hc admitted that in his possession there was no paper which might show 
that he was in employment of that press. He claimed to be one of the seven 
permanent employees of the press , and cven then he admitted that he could refer 
to no paper on the basis of which he could claim that he was an employee of 
that press . No records of the press have also been called for to substantiate 
this claim of P . W . 21. Secondly , in the election he was against the Congress 
party , of which party respondent No. 1 was the Parliamentary candidate . His 
evidence is that his sympathies in the election were with the candidate of the 
Jankranti Dal. He further admitted : 
" T was not in favour of supporting the Congress candidate either for the 

Vidhan Sabha or for the Parliament. I was against the Congress 

in the election but in favour of the Jan Sangh ." 
Therefore , his evidence is not free from feelings of partisanship against the 
political party of respondent No . 1 . Thirdly , the manner in which he deposed 
that the offcnding pamphlet had been printed at the Sarvodaya Press was highly 
suspicious. In his chief- examination he started by saying that in the last general 
election pamphlets were printed at his press on behalf of respondent No . 1 and 
among the papers so printed were ballot parchas. Then he said " I remember 
many other pamphlets which were printed at my press on that occasion at the 
instance of Nagendra Babu " . After that a question was put to him in a leading 
form " Is it a fact that a pamphlet the heading of which was Sitamarhi Sansadiye 
Chhetra Ke voter Bhayion sc appeal , was printed in your press at the instance 
of Nagendra Babu ? " , and this question was disallowed on the ground that it had 
been put in a leading form . The next question put to him was " Please tell me 
what kind of pamphlet you remember to have been printed in your press on 
behalf of Nagendra Babu ? " , Upon this the witness answered ; 
" Pamphlet containing the heading just stated in the last question of learned 

counsel for the petitioner. " In other words, it was practically put 
in his mouth only to be repeated by him , that the offending pamphlet 
was printed at the Sarvodaya Press at the instance of respondent 
No. 1 . A further question was put to him in his chief - examination 


3412 


- 


- 


- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 (PART 11 – 
- - - - 

= - = 
after he had seen Ext. I as to how he identified it to be one copy 

of the pamphlet printed at his press. Then he said : 
" I say that this pamphlet was printed at Sarvodaya Press , Sitamarhi 

because the name of that press as well as its telephone number 
is printed at the foot of the pamphlet at page 66 of the election 
petition ," 


In other words, he was virtually asked to read out what is printed at the foot 
of Ext. I, clearly showing that he did not depose to all these matters from his 
personal knowledge. In view of his manner of deposing I find it difficult to 
accept his evidence that Ext. I was printed at Sarvodaya Press or that P . W . 21 
had acted as its compositor . In his cross - examination P . W . 21 has admitted : 
" Whatever paper is printed in Sarvodaya Press is noted on an Orderbook . 

The name of the customer is incorporated in the said Orderbook . 
The order of the customer is taken on the back of the manuscript 
tendered for printing." 


If there were so many records available in the Press to support the petitioner s 
case that the offending pamphlet was printed there or at the instance of respon 
dent No. 1 , then it would have been very easy for the petitioner to show that 
the evidence of P . W . 21 was true, by calling the relevant records from the Press . 
But no attempt was made by the petitioner to call for any document from the 
Press in spite of the fact that in his evidence the petitioner ( P . W . 29 ) has claimed 
that he had learnt on enquiry from the proprietor of the Sarvodaya Press that 
this pamphlet had been printed there on behalf of respondent No. 1. It should 
be mentioned here that towards the closing stage of the hearing of this case , 
the petitioner had filed a petition to call for certain documents hearing on this 
matter from the office of the District Magistrate , but even at that stage the 
petitioner made no effort to call for any of the records of the Sarvodaya Press 
in spite of the fact that P . W . 21 admitted that the proprietor of the Sarvoday ! 
Press was alive and still looking after the press which was functioning and that 
" All order books, vouchers or manuscript and final printed pamphlets of all kinds 
are in his custody " . P . W . 21 having admitted about the existence of the order 
books, vouchers and manuscript in the press , volunteered a statement that " When 
any illegal or objectionable pamphlet has to be printed , then the order of the 
customer is not taken on the back of the manuscript" . Thercby P . W . 21 meant 
to convey to the Court that the alleged manuscript of the offending pamphlet 
did not contain the order of the allcged customer ( respondent No . 1 ) since it 
was a case of printing an illegal or objectionable pamphlet. But this evidence 
of P . W . 21 was negatived by his very next statement wherein he said : 
" It is only when the customer placing the order records his order on the 

back of the manuscript meant for printing that the name of the 
Press is printed on such objectionable printing matter." 


Upon this cvidence, the manuscript of Ext. I which contains the name of 
Sarvodaya Press would contain on its back the order for printing it placed by 
the alleged customer , namely , respondent No . 1. Therefore , had Ext. I really 
been printed at the Sarvodaya Press at the instənce of respondent No . 1 , then 
the best evidence would have bern the alleged manuscript containing the order 
for printing recorded by respondent No. 1 on its back . P . W . 21 has admitted : 
" The manuscript as well as the proof and the final copy of the printed 

matter are preserved in the Press ." 


In such circumstances, the total fallure of the petitioner to call for the relevant 
documents from the Press strikes at the root of tre contention of the learned 
counsel for the petitioner that P . W . 21 has given the best evidence about the 
printing of the offending pamphlet at the Sarvodaya Press at the instance of 
respondent No. 1. 


17 . There is another circumstance why I consider the evidence of P . W . 21 
to be highly unreliable, Section 127A of the Act has Impsed certain restrictions 
on the printing of election pamphlets posters, etc . Şub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of 
section 127A read : 


( 1 ) No person shall print or publish , or cause to be printed or published , 

any election pamphlet or poster which does not bear on its face the 
names and addresses of the printer and the publisher thereof. 


= 


= . 


- - 


- - 


SEC . 37 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20 , 1968 /AS IDHA 29, 1890 

3413 
* - - - - - - - 

- - = = — - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 
( 2 ) No person shall print or cause to be printed any election paniphlet or 

poster 
( a ) unless a declaration as to the identity of the publisher thereof, 

signed by him and attested by two persons to whom he is personal 

ly known , is delivered by him to the printer in duplicate ; and 
( b ) unless , within a reasonable time after the printing of the document, 

one copy of the declaration is sent by the printer , together with 

one copy of the document , 
(1) where it is printed in the capital of the State , to the Chiet Electoral 

Officer ; and 
(ii ) in any other case, to the district magistrate of the district in which 

it is printed ." 
Therefore, if the name of the Sarvodaya Press was printed on Ext. I in accord 
ance with sub - section ( 1 ) of section 127A , then it is reasonable to think that 
the provision of sub - section ( 2 ) would have been complied with and the neces 
sary declaration and a copy of the printed document had been forwarded to the 
District Magistrate of Muzaffarpur, otherwise the Press would incur the punish 
ment prescribed in sub - section ( 4 ) of section 127A which lays down : 
" (4 ) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) 

or sub - section ( 2 ) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term 
which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend 

to two thousand rupees, or with both ." 
But P . W . 21 , claiming to have left the service of the Sarvodaya Press has not 
hesitated to charge the Press with the contravention of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
127A . He has said : 
" It is not a fact that a copy of the manuscript and a copy of the final 

printed matter were to be forwarded to the District Magistrate in 

cases where the printing materials related to the election ," 
He further sail: 
" Of no election petition , not even of the pamphlet marked X for identi 

fication , either any copy of the manuscript or any copy of the final 
printed matter was ever sent from our press to the District Magis 

trate ." 
The record shows that both the petitioner and respondent No. 1 had got a large 
number of election pamphlets , etc , printed at the Sarvodaya Press . In other 
words, both the petitioner and respondent No. 1 were its customers. It does not 
stand to reason that the Press had contravened the provisions of sub - sections ( 1 ) 
and ( 2 ) of section 127A at the instance of one of its customers to the prejudice 
of its another customer and simultaneously incurring the punishment provided 
in sub - section ( 4 ) of section 127A . Had P . W . 21 been a genuine employec of 
the Sarvodaya Press , he would not have attributed such contravention on the 
part of the Press . I should say one word here in support of my order rejecting 
the petition filed by the petitioner before me on the 10th April, 1968. Upon 
the evidence of P . W . 21, just referred to , no declaration or any other document 
contemplated by section 127A ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ii ) of the Act could possibly have been 
avallable in the office of the District Magistrate and , therefore, it was idle for the 
petitioner to make a prayer at a late stage of the trial for calling for such non 
existing documents . However , in view of the unreliable character of evidence 
of P . W . 21 , I am unable to rely upon his uncorroborated testimony that he was 
in employment of the Sarvodaya Press , that Ext. I was printed at that Press , 
that it was printed at the instance of respondent No. 1 , that he had acted as a 
compositor in relation to it , that he had seen its original draft or that he had 
personally delivered it to respondent No . l . 

18 . The credit memo ( Ext. 1 ) has been brought on the record with a view 
to support the petitioner s case that the offending pamphlet was printed at the 
instance of respondent No . 1. Reliance has been placed upon the third item of 
this credit mcmo for the purpose of proving that it related to the printing of 
2 .000 copics of the offending pamphlet Ext. I. P . W . 21 has, however admitted 
that the credit memo. (Ext. 1 ) does not mention either the heading of the offending 
pamphlet or the colour or the size of the paper used for its printing . Merely 
on the basis of the credit memo ( Exts . 1 ) , therefore , I cannot accept the evidence 
of P . W . 21 that it had been Aled in in connection with the printing of the offending 
pamphlet . Three other credit memos of the Sarvodaya Press marked M , M / 1 


3411. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 

- - - - " .- . . . . .. - - - - .. . 
and M / 2 for identification were shown to the witness , but he admitted that he 
did not remember the heading of any of the papers or notices mentioned in 
them . He further admitted " Ol none of the orders in question connected with 
the credit vouchers marked M , M / 1 and M / 2 for identiAcation , I can men 
tion either the date of placing of order or the date of delivery , because these 
works are done by the proprietor " . If he cannot mention the dates of order or 
delivery of these credit memos., it is inconceivable that he genuinely remembered 
the date of placing of order , or the date of delivery of the offending pamplilet . 
Similarly , if he cannot say the heading or the contents of any of the other papers 
mentioned in these credit vouchers, then he can never be trusted to say truly 
that a pamphlet bearing the heading or the contents of Ext. I was printed in the 
Sarvodaya Press . The fact that he is a tutored witness with respect to Ext. I 
is clear from his own admission : 
" Except about the pamphlet marked X for identification ( at page 66 of 

the election petition ) I cannot say the date of delivery of any printed 
matter from my press. Except the heading of this election pamphlet, 
I do not remember the heading of any other type of pamphlct 
amongst the thousand types of pamphlets which were printed at my 

press during my employment there ." 
I am , therefore , unable to believe that he had remembered that Ext I was 
printed at his press at the instance of respondent No. 1 or that he had delivered 
it after printing to respondent No. 1 on 15th February , 1967. I am also unable 
to hold upon the basis of the unreliable evidence of P . W . 21 that item No . 3 of 
the entry in the credit memo ( Ext. 1) relates to the printing of the offending 
Damphlet . 

19. What Item No . 3 of Ext. 1 relates to has been amply explained by res 
pondent No . 1 ( R . W , 6 ) . He has deposed that item No. 3 of Ext. 1 is the cost 
of printing of an appeal in his personal name to the voters of his constituency 
and item No. 3 of another credit memo (Ext . C ) is with respect to the price or 
paper used for printing the same appeal. The fact that item No. 3 of Ext. C is 
for the price of paper for his personal appeal is abundantly clear from the entry 
itself. Similarly , the fact that item No . 3 of Ext . 1 is the cost of printing of the 
same appeai is also clear from Ext. 1 itself , at the top of which it has been clearly 
mentioned that it is for printing charges only . The fact that the Press has in 
variably adopted the procedure of issuing separate vouchers for printing charges 
and for price of paper is apparent from several other similar credit memos ( Exts. 
5 / 1 , 5 / 2 , and M , M / 1 and M / 2 for identification ) which have been brought on the 
record . It has been clicited from R . W . 6 in his cross - examination that he had 
got three kinds of appeals to voters printed at the Sarvodaya Press (i ) one in his 
personal name- covered by item No . 3 of Ext. 1 read with item No. 3 of Ext. C , 
( ii ) the second in the joint names of himself and the Congress candidates of the 
Assembly , constituencies comprised in this Parliamentary constituency covered by 
item No. 1 of Ext. 5 / 1 , and ( lii ) the third an appcal issued to the voters on behalf 
of the Congress Committee covered by voucher No . 33 (of his election return ) 
which has been marked Ext. 5 / 2 . All these vouchers were attached by him with 
his election return . The wordings of the third itern of Ext. C . clearly show 
that it related to the first of these kinds of appeal. It was in respect of price of 
paper for printing an appeal in 2 ,000 copies in the personal name of respondent 
No. 1 . The wordings of item No 1 of Ext. 5 / 1 also amply show that it was for 
printing a joint appeal as described by R . W . 6 . Likewise, the wordings of item 
No . 1 or Ext. 5 / 2 also amply support the evidence of R . W . 6 with respect to an 
appeal issued on behalf of the Congress Committee. If the item No. 3 of Ext. 1 
would have related to the printing of a pamphlct like Ext. I, then respondent No . 1 
would not have attached it to his election return . Therefore . I am fully convinc 
ed that item No . 3 of Exts, 1 and C respectively do not relate at all to the print 
ing of a pumphlet in which the appeal appears to have been issued on behalf of 
persons other than respondent No. 1 . Thus, Ext. 1 does not support the poti 
tioner s case of the evidence of P . W . 21 that the offending pamphlet was printed 
at the instance of respondent No. 1. In my opinion , it has also not been proved 
that Ext. I was printed at Sarvodaya Press . P . W . 21 did not identify it as a paper 
printed there with reference to its type or the kind or colour of its paper , 

20 . Learned counsel for the petitioner , however , contended that the allega 
tion made by him in paragraph 51 of the election petition that Ext. I was printed 
at Saryodaya Press has not been denied by respondent No. 1 in his written state 
ment and , therefore , onus lay upon him to disprove the petitioner s case on this 
point by adducing evidence of the men of the Press and of the signatories named 
in Ext . I. But I am unable to accept this contention as correct . The very first 


Sec . 3(1.1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3 ,115 


sentence of paragraph 57 of the written statement contains a denial of all the 
allegations contained in paragraph 51 of the election petition . Therefore, no part 
of the onus of proof has shifted upon respondent No. 1. It is the petitioner 
( P . W . 29 ) who has claimed to have learnt from the proprietor of the Press that 
the offending pamphlet was printed there at the instance of respondent No. 1. 
Therefore , it was for him to establish his claim by examining the Press proprietor. 
If he had done that , then alone the onus to disprove this fact would have shifted 
upon respondent No. 1 . He claims to have addressed a communication about it 
to the Election Commission and to have received a reply from there . But he has 
not chosen to bring them on the record . The addresses or other particulars about 
identity of none of the alleged signatories of Ext. I are to be found anywhere. 
Therefore, respondent No. 1 could have no means to trace out any of them as to 
examine them on his behalf . On the other hand , the petitioner ( P . W . 29 ) has 
claimed to have had talks with 2 or 3 of them and to have learnt from them that 
they had not been consulted in connection with the publication of the offending 
pamphlet. Therefore, it was for him to examine them in support of his case or 
at least to mention the villages where they lived so that respondent No. 1 could 
contact them if they could be traced out. The petitioner is not entitled to succecd 
on the footing of shifting of the onus of proof upon respondent No. 1 . Besides, 
I do not consider it safe to set upon the uncorroborated interested testimony of 
P . W . 29 on a matter like this . I, therefore, hold that the responsibility of res 
pondent No. 1 for printing the offending pamphlet has not been established at all . 

21. The next question which I propose to consider is , whether the offending 
pamphlet was published by or on behalf of respondent No . 1 by distributing its 
copies at the various places mentioned in schedule VI of the election petition 
Eight witnesses have been examined by the petitioner in support of his case on this 
point. They are P .Ws. l , 17 , 19 , 24 to 28. P . W . 1 has spoken about its distribu 
ition at Piprahi, Barharwa and Bairgabia . P .Ws. 17 and 25 have spoken about its 
distribution at Parihar. PWs, 19 , 24 , 26 , 27 and 28 have spoken about its distribu 
tion at Ranjitpur, Akhta , Riga Bazar, Majorganj and Sitamarhi bus stand res 
pectively . No evidence has been adduced to prove its distribution at Sursand or 
at Dumra . No evidence has also been adduced about its distribution by Chande 
shwar Yadav of Chak Mahila . 

22. The witnesses on the point of distribution have been drawn from three 
different lists of witnesses which the petitioner has flled in this case. P .Ws. 1 and 
17 belong to the 1st list of 57 witnesses which he filed on 21st November, 1967 . 
P . W . 19 belongs to the 2nd list of 12 witnesses which he filed on 28th February , 
1968 ; and PWs. 24 to 28 belong to the 3rd list of 14 witnesses which he Aled on 
8th April , 1968. The petitioner came out with the 3rd list after 22 out of his 29 
witnesses had given their evidence. Persons who see any corrupt practice being 
committed before their own eyes are in the nature of eye - witnesses of a serious 
criminal offence, and if such persons are cited as witnesses at a late stage of the 
trial, then a serious doubt must arise that they are not genuine but got -up witnes 
ses , unless , of course , it is explained that they could not have been cited earlier 
because , for example the person citing him or his pairvikar had no prior know 
ledge that those persons had seen the corrupt practice being committed . But there 
is no scope for any such explanation in this case . P . W . 28 has deposed that on 
the very day (18th February , 1967 ) on which he had seen respondent No. 1 per 
sonally distributing copies of the offending pamphlet , he had handed over one copy 
of it to the petitioner. The evidence of P . W . 27 is that he had also shown a copy 
of the pamphlet to Ram Naresh Singh ( P . W . 1 ) who had gone to his village along 
with Jagarnath Choudhary. According to P . W . 26 , he had talked about the offend 
ing pamphlet (with Jagarnath Choudhary who used to live in the Dera of the 
petitioner and had also shown a copy of that pamphlet to him . He has further 
deposed that after getting the offending pamphlet , he had met the petitioner for 
the first time 10 or 15 days after the election . Thereafter he had met him five or 
seven times more . These meetings with the petitioner he had at intervals of 15 
days since after , he had come across the pamphlet. During his first of such meet 
ings with the petitioner , he had talks with him about this pamphlet. The peil 
tioner has admitted that Ram Naresh Singh ( P . W . 1 ) has been looking after this 
case on his behalf. Therefore, it cannot be said that these witnesses could not 
have been cited by the petitioner in his first or his second list on the ground that 
hę or his pairukar had no prior knowledge that they had seen the pamphlet being 
distributed by respondent No. 1 or others . Therefore , the very fact that these 
witnesses were not cited in the first list Aled on 21st November , 1967, must lead 
to the distribution , but witnesses who have been set up at a late stage to depose 
to certain facts which they had not really seen . P . W . 25 was admittedly a polling 
agent of the petitioner at Şursand booth No. 12 . If he had seen copies of the 
offending pamphlet being distributed on four consecutive days from 16th February , 
1967, then it is impossible that he would not have informed the petitioner or 
his agent ( P . W . 1) about it . In that case , he would have been cited as a witness 
on 21st November , 1967 itself . It seems to me, therefore , that all the witnesses 


3.416 


" HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


[PART II 


on the point of distribution of the offending pamphlet mentioned in the second 
and the third list of witnesses have been got - up to depose falsely in support of 
the petitioner s case . At any rate , it will be highly unsafe to hold upon their 
testimony that respondent No. 1 or anyone else on his behalf had distributed copies 
of the offending pamphlet at the different centres mentioned by them , 

23. In order to prove that respondent No. 1 had personally distributed copies 
of the offending pamphlet at Sitamarhi, the petitioner has relied upon the evidence 
of PW . 23 , who has deposed that on 18th Febrụary, 1967 he had seen respondent 
No. I personally distributing such pamphlets at Sitamarhi Bus - stand . In support 
of his evidence he produced another copy of the oftending pamphlet from his own 
pocket and has added that two other persons, Damodar Jha and Hari Kishore Singh , 
were in the company of respondent No. 1 on that occasion . I have already indi 
cated that his evidence cannot be true because had he informed the petitioner 
about this fact on the same day , as he claims to have done, then the petitioner 
would not have waited to take appropriate action against respondent No. 1 until 
the filing of the present election petition in the off chance of losing the election 
to him . He would hancę immediately filed a criminal case against him for defama 
tion because he says that on reading the pamphlet , he felt that it was an attack 
upon his personal character and that it was published intentionally to defame 
him . In cross - examination he has admitted that he knew that for such defama 
tory publication , the man responsible for printing and publishing it was liable 
to criminal prosecution , but admittedly he did not lodge an information in 
this connection against anyone in any police station . Therefore , it is not possible 
to accept the evidence of P . W . 28 . Besides , he was never called upon to produce 
any document in this Court. He has said that no paper was sent to him from 
this Court asking him to produce any pamphlet or paper . Therefore, by his 
action in producing a copy of the offending pamphlet in this Court cut of his 
own accord , he has demonstrated his undue anxiety to support the petitioner. He 
has further admitted that in the election his sympathies were with the Jan Karanti 
Dal which was contesting the election against the Congress Party . I am , there 
fore , unable to rely upon hls evidence about commission of such corrupt practice 
by respondent No. 1 personally . 

24 . For proving his case that respondent No . 1 personally had distributed such 
pamphlet at Majorganj, the petitioner has relied upon the evidence of P . W . 27 . 
His evidence to the effect that he had shown a copy of the offending pamphlet to 
PW . I finds no support from the evidence of P . W . 1. Jagarnath Choudhary who 
used to live in the Dera of the petitioner and to whom also he claims to have 
shown the pamphlet , has not been examined to support his evidence . Neither 
P . W . 1 nor P . W . 27 had made anv report to any public authority about the con 
duct of respondent No . 1 in personally distributing such pamphlet by way of false 
propaganda against the petitioner. Neither P . W . 29 nor P . W . 1 has said that 
either P . W . 27 or P . W . 28 had ever informed him that respondent No. 1 had per 
sonally distributed such pamphlets at Majorganj or Sitamarhi, I, therefore, hold 
that the petitioner has failed to prove his case in schedule VI against respondent 
No, 1 personally . 


25 . P . W . 28 has deposed that he had got a copy of the offending pamphlet at 
Riga Bazar where it was being distributed on 21st February, 1987, by Gudar Rai 
of village Maniari and Jogendar Rai of village Mahani, besides two or four other 
persons. But in schedule VI, Jagendar Rai of Mahani has not been shown as a dis 
tributor of this pamphlet at Riga. Therefore , his evidence to this extent cannot 
be accepted. Even against Gudar Rai of Manlari, I am unable to accept his eyi . 
dence because I have already indicated that he could not have seen any such 
corrupt practice being committed , otherwise his name would have been found 
place in the very first list of witnesses of the petitioner. His dislike for the 
Congress Party , of which respondent No. 1 was the candidate . is apparent from 
his own evidence because he has said that he developed a dislike for that party 
since the time the leadership of that party went into the hands of Sri K . B , Sahay 
two or four years back . At present his sympathies are with the S . S . P ., the party 
of the petitioner. Therefore, P . W . 26 is clearly a partisan witness, No reliance 
can , therefore , be placed upon his evidence for the reasons given above, 

28 . P . W . 25 has deposed about distribution of copies of such pamphlets being 
done by a band of workers headed by Jogendra Yadav in Parihar. His evidence 
is that seeing pamphlets of this type being distributed , he entertained a feeling 
of anger in his mind and felt that they were being distributed to ruin the pros 
pects of the petitioner s election . I have already said that he was a polling agent 
of the petitioner at Parihar booth No. 12 in Surgand constituency . Therefore, if 


bacalership of the said that was 


Suc , 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3417 


- 


- - - 


he had really seen such pamphlets being distributed for four consecutive days: 
between 16th February , 1967, and 19th February, 1967, then he was bound to 
take appropriate action , but he has admitted : 
" Regarding the act of Jogendra Yadav in distributing the defamatory pani 

phlets against Thakur Saheb I did not think it necessary to make : 
any report to any election authority . I did not forward any copy of 

that pamphlet to any election officer or any police officer." . 
It is manifest that there is no truth in his version about the distribution of 
such pamphlets by Jogendra Yadav at Parihar. The evidence of P . W . 24 is that 
on 18th February , 1967, he had been seen Santokhi Rai distributing such pamph 
lets at Akhta , which is his residential village , and he handed over a copy of that 
pamphlet to Ragho Bajpai of his village. In cross -examination he adinittecl that 
except to Ragho Bajpai, he had spoken to none about the fact that Santokhi Rai 
had distributed such objectionable pamphlets amongst the voters on behalf of 
the Congress Party . But the only person who was expected lo ccrroborate his 
evidence has not been examined by the petitioner This Ragho Bejpai cculd 
not have been a complete stranger to the petitioner because according to P . W . 
24 , it was Ragho Bajpai who had told him that summons had been received from 
this Court for his evidence in this case. Ragho Bajpai could not have known 
it unless he had been a worker or a karpardaz of the petitioner. Therefore, the 
uncorroborated testimony of P . W . 24 , who has been cited as a witness at a l ate 
stage of the trial, cannot justify a finding in favour of the petitioner about dis 
tribution of copies of the offending pamphlet at Akhta by Santokht Rai 

27. To prove the case set up by him in schedule VI of the election petition : 
about distribution of such pamphlets by Adya Kuar of Ranjitpur , the petitioner 
has relied upon the evidence of P . W . 19 . According to this witness , the distri 
bution by Adya Kuar was made on 17th February, 1967 , in Ranjitpur . Admit 
tedly , he was a worker of the petitioner in the election and he claims to have 
seen 200 to 400 copies of the offending pamphlet during the canvassing period , 
and yet he has admitted : 
" Seeing such objectionable pamphlets being distributed I did not consider it 

necessary to lodge any information about it anywhere. I did not : 
forward a copy of this pamphlet to any authority with any petition 

for action ." . 
Such utter inaction on the part of a worker of the petitioner in the election , 
can only be explained upon the basis that he had never seen such pamphlets being 
distributed by anybody at Ranjitpur . I, therefore , reject his evidence as un . 
acceptable. Thus the evidence of none of the witnesses cited in the second or “ 
the third lists , namely , P .Ws. 19 and 24 to 28 is At to be relied upon , 

28. I now come to the witnesses on the point of distribution cited from the 
first list of the 21st November, 1967. The most important witness of this list is : 
P . W . 1, and he has deposed about distribution of copies of the offending pamph 
let at three different centres Barharwą, Bairgania and Piprahi ( Sheohar ). In 
his examination - in - chief he said that he had seen such leaflets being distribut 
ed amongst the voters on behalf of respondent No. 1 by Surendra Prasad Yadav , 
Yogendra Prasad , Ram Narain Ral Yadav , and two clerks of Sitamarhi Cane 
Growers Cooperative Union at two or three places, namely , Piprahi, Barharwa: 
and Bairgania . But his evidence lo not consistent with the case set up by the 
petitioner in schedule VI, according to which such distribution is supposed to 
have been made at Barharwa by Chandeshwar Yadav of Chak Minh1.2 whom 
P . W . 1 has not named . According to schedule VI, neither the head clerk nor 
Ram Naresh , the Assistant clerk of the Cane Marketing Union , had distributed . 
such pamphlets at Piprahi, Barharwa or Bairganla . According to schedule VI, 
Yogendra Prasad had not distributed such pamphlets at any of the three places : 
mentioned by P . W . 1 . and Ram Narain Yadav is alleged to have distributed 
such pamphlets at Sursand, not at Piprahi, Barharwa and Bairgania . It is also 
not the petitioner s case in the election petition that Surendra Prasad Yadav, 
Yogendra Prasad , Ram Narain Rai Yaday and Mahendra Rai Yadav had jointly 
distributed such pamphlets at Barharwa, Bairgania and Piprahi. Evidently , 
P . W . 1 has lumped up these names for the purpose of proving the alleged distri 
bution at three different places since he could not remember the particulars men 
tioned in schedule VI. He has also not mentioned the dates of the alleged dis 
tribution by these alleged distributors . There is nothing to corroborate his. 
testimony on this point. Neither he says that he had disclosed the names of the 
alleged distributors to the petitioner nor P . W . 29 says that he had told their names . 
to him . He is undoubtedly a very highly interested witness because P . W . 29 has : 


3.118 “ZHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : Jl LY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 
-- - - - - - -- - - - 

— 
admitted that he has been looking after his case on his behalf. He had also 
acted as a counting agent of the petitioner , and yet as admitted by him , he had 
made no report relating to this defamatory pamphlet to any Governmental 
authority , although he admits that he did realise that the persons distributing 
them were doing an illegal act . In such circumstances it will be highly unsafe 
to rely upon his evidence . 

29 . The only other witness on the point of distribution of the oilending pamph 
let is P . W . 17 who had acted for the petitioner both as a polling agent and as a 
counting agent. He has deposed that on 18th February , 1967, he had seen 
Yogendra Rai Yadav of Panchore distributing such offending pamphlets in Pari 
har Bazar . He has admitted that Parihar is at a distance of 12 or 13 miles from 
his village by road and it lies within Bela police station within Sursand Assemb 
ly constituency , while his village lies within Majorganj police station and 
Assembly constituency. He has further admitted that Panchore is about 25 miles 
from Parthar and lies within Bathnaha or Sitamarhi Assembly constituency . 
Therefore , it is highly improbable that P . W . 17 could have seen Jogendra Rai 
Yadav of Panchore distributing such pamphlets so far away from his village, and 
the fact that he had not really seen any such thing at Parihar is evident from his 
own admission that in spite of being an active worker of the petitioner and realis 
Îng that the distribution of such a pamphlet about a candidate was improper, he 
made no report before any public authority about the distribution of such a 
pamphlet mentioning the name of any person who had distributed it . I cannot , 
therefore , persuade myself to accept the evidence of P . W . 17 . The very fact that 
P . W . 29 took no action in connection with this pamphlet at any tiine before the 
Aling of the present election petition , shows that none of his workers had really 
seen it being distributed anywhere . 


30 . Respondent No. 1 has admitted that amongst the names mentioned in 
schedule VI, only two , namely , Surendra Prasad Yadav and Ram Naresh Prasad , 
the Assistant clerk of the Cane Marketing Union , were his workers. As to the 
rest , he has denied on oath that they were his workers in the election , and his 
denial to this effect has not been falsified with reference to any document on the 
record . Surendra Prasad Yadav ( R . W . 7 ) has denied on oath that he had dis 
tributed such pamphlets at Piprahi, Barharwa and Bairganja . Even without his 
denial it has not been proved that he had distributed such pamphlets at any of 
the places mentioned by P . W . 1 . There is also total lack of evidence on the side 
of the petitioner that any of his agents had distributed such pamphlets with the 
knowledge or consent of respondent No. 1 . The fact that not a single copy of 
this pamphlet was Aled before any public authority at any time until the conclu 
sion of the election , leads to the inference that it was not in existence until lonx 
after the election was over. For the various reasons given above, I have come to 
the conclusion that the petitioner has failed to prove that the offending pamphlet 
was publicised by or on behalf of respondent No, 1 by distributing its copies at 
. any of the centres mentioned in schedule VI of the election petition . 


3.1. Upon the findings recorded above , no further question in connection with 
the alleged commission of the corrupt practice defined in section 123 ( 4 ) of the 
Açt arises . Since , however , arguments both for and against have been addressed 
to me about the remaining Ingredients of the alleged corrupt practice , it is 
desirable that I should briefly indicate my views about them . It is contended on 
behalt of the petitioner that upon the evidence of the petitioner ( P . W . 29 ) himself , 
It must be held that all the remaining Ingredients of a corrupt practice under 
section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act have been established because the evidence of P . W . 29 
to the effect that the statements of fact contained therein are false has not been 
rebutted by any evidence on the side of respondent No . 1 . In support of this 
contention learned counsel has relled upon Kumara Nand v . Brijmohan Lal 
Sharma ( A . I. R . 1967 Şupreme Court 808 ) , to which I have already referred . 
Therein , it was held that though the onus to prove the various ingredients of the 
corrupt practice is on the election petitioner, the main things that he has to prove 
are that such a publication was made of a statement of fact and that that state 
ment is false and is with respect to the personal character or conduct of the 
election petitioner . There it was further held that the burden of proving that 
the candidate publishing the statement believed it to be false or did not believe 
it to be true , which rests upon the complaining candidate , is very light and would 
be discharged by the complaining candidate swearing to that effect. Thereafter , 

it would be for the candidate publishing the statement to prove otherwise There , 
- It was further held that the question whether the statement was reasonably 
: calculated to prejudice the prospects of the election of the complaining candidate 

would generally be a matter of inference. So the main onus on an election peti 
- tioner under section 123 ( 4 ) is to show that a statement of fact was published by 


Suc . 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASÁDHA 29, 1890 3419 

G 

-S S - - 5 - - .- - . :: 
a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of the candidate 
or his election agent and also to show that that statement was false and related 
to his personal character or conduct . Once that is proved and the complaining 
candidate has sworn as above indicated , the burden shifts to the candidate making 
the false statement of fact to show what his belief was. The further question 
as to prejudice to the prospects of election 19 generally a matter of inference to 
be arrived at on the facts and circumstances of each case 


32 . As against this , the contention of the learned counsel for respondent 
No. 1 is that the above observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court are 
of 10 avail to the petitioner because the offending pamphlet does not contain 
any statement of fact relating to the personal character or conduct of the peti 
tioner , but it contains an expression of opinion about his unsuitability for being 
elected to the Parlament. It has further been contended that the appeal con 
tained in Ext. I was to ensure the safety of democracy and it had nothing to 
do with the question of prejudicing the prospects of the petitioner in the election . 
Ilaying considered both these contentions and perused the contents of the 
offending pamphlet. I am inclined to accept the contention of the learned counsel 
for the petitioner that it contained statement of facts which are falsc and that 
those facts were in relation to the personal character or conduct of the petitioner 
and they were reasonably calculated to prejudice his prospects in the election . 
But I am unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner 
that the petitioner has succeeded in proving that respondent No. I believed 
those staetments of fact to be false or did not believe them to be true. In the 
Supreine Court case , it had been proved that the successful candidate was res 
ponsible for the publication of the offending article which was a poen , that the 
poem in question was read at an election meeting in the presence of the success 
ful candidate and that the booklet containing the offending poem was printed at 
the instance of one of his polling and counting agents . There it was further 
held that the successful candidate had seen the booklet containing the offending 
poem before his election meeting and had read it and that the poem was printed 
with the knowledge and approval of his election agent. None of these facts has 
been proved in the instant case . Besides , no evidence whatsoever has been 
adduced by the petitioner to the effect that respondent No. 1 belleved the state 
ment of facts contained in Ext. I to be false or did not believe that to be true . 
Neither P , W . I nor P . W . 29 has said that like the respondent No. 1 also believed 
that to be false or did not believe them to be true. Therefore, on this matter 
although the burden of proof which rested upon the petitioner was very light, he 
has falled to discharge it since he has not even sworn to that effect. In such 
circumstances, no burden could shift to respondent No . 1 to show what exactly 
his belſet in the matter was. Having failed to show to me any statement in the 
depositions of P . Ws. 1 and 29 to the effect that respondent No. 1 belleved the 
statements contained in the offending pamphlet to be false or did not believe 
them to be true, learned counsel for the petitioner relied upon the affidavit of 
P . W . 1 appended to the election petition at page 41 , which is to the effect that 
the contents of paragraph 51 arc true to his knowledge. He argued that 
upon this affidavit, the burden of proving that respondent No. 1 believed the 
offending statements to be false or did not believe them to be true, must be 
deemed to have been discharged . I am , however , unable to accept this conten 
tion of the learned counsel. The affidavit attached to the election petition is in 
compliance with the rules of verification of pleadings contained in sub - rule ( 1 ) 
of rule 15 of Order VI of the Code of Civil Procedure , which as Amended by 
this Court reads : 


" Save as otherwise provided by any law for the time being in force , the 

facts stated in every pleading shall be verified by solemn affirma 
tion or on oath of the party or of any of the parties pleading or of 
some other person proved to the satisfaction of the Court to be 
acquainted with the facts of the case , before any officer empowered 

to administer oath under sec . 139 of the Code." 
In other words , the affidavit of P . W . 1 at page 41 is a part of the pleading which 
by itself cannot take the place of proof in a trial of the case pleaded . The 
affidavit contemplated by rule 15 cannot be placed on the same level as affida 
vits within the meaning of Order XIX of the Code. Under rule 1 of Order XIX 
of the Code any fact or facts may be proved by affidavit, but that can only be 
done if an order to that effect is made by the Court for gufficient reason , and on 
such conditions as the Court thinks reasonable . Without the order of the Court , 
no fact pleaded by a party may be proved by affidavit . The petitioner never 
obtained av mer of the Court terms of rule 1 of Order XIX , and so it 18 nov 


3 .120 THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART 11 – 

- - - - - - - - - - -- - - --- - 

: - 
open to him to seek to prove any fact merely on the basis of the affidavit appen 
ded to the election petition . In this context I may also point out that as section 
92 of the Act of 1951 formerly stood , the Tribunal had powers to receive evidence 
on oildavits . But as the Act now stands , an election petition has to be tried by 
the High Court as provided in Section 87 " as nearly as may be , in accordance 
with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 to the 
trial of suits " . Therefore, a fact may be proved on affidavit only where the 
requirenients , of rule 1 of Order XIX of the Code have been fulfilled . I, there 
fore , hold that the petitioner has failed to prove that the statements of fact mado 
in the offending leaflet were facts which respondent No . 1 believed to be false or 
did not believe to be true. 


33. No other question has been pressed at the trial. Therefore, upon the 
Andings which I have recorded above, I hold that the petitioner is not entitled 
to either of the two declarations which he has sought in this election petition . 


34 . The result, therefore , is that this election petition fails and is , accordingly , 
dismissed. The recriminatory petition filed by respondent No. 1 is also appendix 
A dismissed . The petitioner must , however , pay to respondent No. 1 the costs 
of this proceeding together with a hearing fee which I assess at Rs. 1 ,000 / -. 


35 . Let a substance of this decision be communicated to the Election Com 
mission and to the Speaker of the Lok Sabha , and let an authenticated copy of 
this judgroent be forwarded to the Election Commission as soon as possible . 


Sd ./ - G 


N PRASAD . 


PATNA HIGH COURT, 
The 3rd May , 1968. 


APPENDIX A 


ELECTION PETITION No. 23 OF 1967 


In the matter of an application for inspection of ballot papers . 

Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha - Petitioner. 


Vergus 


Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav and others — Respondents . 

ORDER 
This is a petition on behalt of the election petitioner to permit him to inspect 
the ballot papers counted in favour of respondent No. 1 and others, as also the 
rejected ballot papers to enable him to bring the relevant ballot papers on the 
record as exhibits in support of his case . 


2 . The election under challenge is the election of Sri Nagendra Prasad Yadav 
( respondent No. 1) to the Parliament from Sitamarhi Parliamentary Constituency 
No . 11, held in the month of February, 1967. This Parliamentary constituency 
is comprised of six Assembly constituencies as follows: — 


( i) Sitamarhi Assembly constituency No. 67 
( 11) Bathanaha Assembly constituency No. 68 
( lii) Sheohar Assembly constituency No. 70 
(Iv ) Majorganj Assembly constituency No. 71 
( v ) Sonbarsa Assembly constituency No. 72, and 
( vi) Sursand Assembly constituency No. 73 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


Soc . ( ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JL LY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 3 .121 
= - -- -.--. - - . - - : : - - - - = 

- - = - = :_ . - - -- -- 
The dates of poll were 17th February 1967, 19th February 1907, and 21st February 
1987 in the different constituencies. The counting of ballot papers was held in 
Sitamarhi Court premises as follows: 


— 


- - 


— 


- -- - 


- 


— 


. 


- — 


- . 


- 


Date of counting 


Assembly Constituency 


Assistant Returning Officer 


23 -2 - 1967 
24 - 2 -1967 
24-2 - 1967 
25 -2 - 1967 
25 -2- 1967 
25-2 - 1967 


Sursand 
Sheohar 
Majorganj 
Sitamarhi 
Sonbarsa 


Sri S. Choudhary. 
Sri K , B . Saxena . 
Sri S , Choudhary . 
Sri K . B , Saxena. 
Sri S . Choudhary , 
Sri K . B . Saxena . 


Bathanaha 


- 


- 


-- 


On 26th February 1967, certain postal ballots were counted and on the same day 
the final results of the election were declared by the Returning Omcer, who was 
the District Magistrate of Muzaffarpur. It was announced that the different 
candidates had secured the following number of votes : 

(1) Thakur Jugal Kishore Sinha - 1,40,820 votes (Petitioner ) 
( 11) Shri Nagendra Prasad Yadav — 1,41, 337 votes ( Respondent No. 1 ) 
( iil ) Shri Jai Kishore Narain Singh - 34 ,004 votes (Respondent No. 2) 
( iv ) Shri Bhagwan Sao _ - 31,469 votes (Respondent No. 3 ) 
( v ) Shri Satya Narain Prasad — 12 , 740 votes (Respondent No. 4 ) 
( vi ) Shri Satyanarain Sharma - 4 ,018 votes (Respondent No. 5 ) 


Total number of rejected ballot papers— 11 ,099 . 


Accordingly , respondent No, 1 was declared to have been elected , since he was 
found to have secured the majority of valid votes. 


3 . Immediately , thereafter , the petitioner Aled a petition before the Returning 
Oficer for a re -count of the ballot papers on the ground that various types of 
irregularities and illegalities had been committed at the stage of counting of ballot 
papers ; but the petition for re- count was rejected . The present election petition 
was Aled in this Court on the 11th April, 1967. 


4 . Respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on the 23rd October , 1967. 
The issues in the case were framed on the 30th October 1967. The hearing of 
evidence began on the 27th March , 1969. The petitioner closed his oral evidence 
on the 12th April, 1968, on 15th April 1968, the present petition for inspection of 
ballot papers was Aled . Arguments in support of the petition were heard on 
16th April 1068 and 17th April 1968 . Respondent No. 1 closed his oral evidence 
on the 19th April 1968 . 


5 . It is well settled that an order for inspection of ballot papers cannot be 
granted as a matter of course . Two conditions must be fulflled to justify such 
an order . The Arst condition is that the election petition must contain an ade 
quate statement of the material facts on which the petitioner celles in support 
of his case ; and the second condition which is very important for our present 
purposes is that the Court must be prima facie satisfied that in order to decide 
the dispute and to do complete justice between the parties , inspection of the 
ballot papers is necessary . Care must be taken to see that the petitioner does 
not get a chance to make a roving inquiry in the ballot boxes with a view to 
justify his claim that the election of the returned candidate is yoid . Learned 
counsel for the petitioner does not dispute these principles , but his contention 
is that both the conditions have been fulfilled in the present case and that this 


3422 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / AŞADHA 29, 1890 


[PART 11 


= - - 


- - - - - - 


is a At case in which the inspection of the ballot papers is necessary for a proper 
decision of the dispute between the parties. In support of his contention learned 
counsel has relied upon three paragraphs of the election petition , namely , para 
graphs 14 , 27 and 28 . The relevant passage in paragraph 14 reads: 
" The petitioner was , however , informed that a large number of votes polled 

in favour of him were rejected and some votes polled in his favour 
were mixed up with the votes polled in favour of other candidates 
including Respondent No. 1 and 2. " 


Paragraph 27 is a long paragraph , but it has to be quoted in full ; 


" That in between the period of counting some of the counting agents used 

to detect irregularities committed by the authorities in sorting , bundl 
ing and counting as well as in wrongfully rejecting the petitioner s 
ballots and in wrongfully accepting the respondent No . I s ballot and 
used to raise objection both orally and in writing but no heed was 
paid by the counting supervisors and Asst. Returning Officers. Some 
times there were hot exchange of words between the counting party 
and the Assistant Returning Odcers on the one hand and the counting 
Agents on the other which the petitioner used to pacify by telling 
the counting agents that they should abide by the decision of the 
Assistant Returning Officers as the wrongs committed by them are 
liable to be rectified on Inspection by the High Court . However , the 
following facts were brought to the notice of the petitioner by his 
counting agents from their memories as the counting agents were not 
allowed to take any notes of such irregularities in the name of 
secrecy of ballot papers . 


( a ) That the ballot papors marked with the petitioner s synibol were also 

bundled with the ballot papers of the Respondent Nos . 1 and 2 
and in this way about 500 votes cast and marked with the peti 
tioner s symbol at booth Nos. 64, 67 , 68, 70 , 71 and 85 of Majorganj 
Assembly Constituency and 41, 48 , 49 , 76 , 79 80 , 87, 94 , 
95 , 97, 98, 99, 101 and 103 in 68 Bathanaha Assembly Constituency , 
were mixed up and bundled with the votes of the respondents 
Nos , 1 and 2 . 


Similarly , the ballot papers marked in favour of other respondents at 

Booths Nos. 28 , 43 , 88, 92, 96 , 97, 85, 86, 100, 82, 83 , in 68 of Bath 
naha Assembly Constituency and booth Nos , 2 , 3 , 17 , 25 , 42, 45 , 48 , 
70 , 71, 75, 60 , 77 , 83 , 92 , 93 In 73 of Sursand Assembly Constituency 
and booth Nos. 4 , 5 , 9 , 10 , 15 , 16 , 28 , 29 , 42 , 58, 62 , 84 , 91 and 96 
in 72 of Sonbarsa Assembly Constituency were mixed up and 
bundled with the votes of the respondent No . 1. This illegal prac 
tice of sorting and scrutinising of ballot papers adopted by the 
counting authorities was in vogue in the counting of votes of 
almost all the booths and thereby about 1, 000 valid votes of the 
petitioner as well as of other respondents were mixed up and 
counted with the votes of the respondent No . 1 . Despite the several 
objections and complaints , the votes of the respective candidates 
could not be scrutinised and recounted . 


(b ) that the ballot papers only marked partially within the column of the 

petitioner and rest of the mark in the blank area were rejected 
by the Returning Officer and consequently about 69 ballot papers 
of the petitioner in booth Nos . 23 , 30 , 73 , 84 , 88 and 93 in 67 of 
Sitamarhi Assembly Constituency were rejected . Similar Irregu 
larities were also committed in booth Nos. 6 , 13, 19 , 30 , 58 , 65, 82 , 
89 and 97 in 73 Sursand Assembly Constituency . Similarly , in 71 
Majorganj Assembly Constituency and 72 Sonbarsa Assembly Con 
stituency in booth Nos. 37 , 61, 67, 85 and 10 , 13 , 27, 28 , 38 , 43, 44 , 
74 , 75 respectively , near about 258 ballot papers marked in favour 
of the petitioner were rejected by the Asstt. Returning Oncer. 


On many protests and complaints the rejected ballots of booth Nos . 24 , 

54 and 74 in 72 Sombarsa Assembly Constituency were checked up 
by the Asstt. Returning Omcer and it was found that 17 votes cast 
in favour of the petitioner had been improperly rejected . 


SIC. 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3423 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


( c ) that the ballot papers marked partically within the column of the 

petitioner and rest of the in the column of the respondent No. 1 
were counted in favour of the respondent No . 1 as his valid votes 
and thus about 12 ballot papers of booth No. 28 in 87 Sitamarhi 
Assembly Constituency were counted in favour of the Rospondent 
No . 1. Similarly , about 28 ballot papers of booth Nos . 30 , 47 , 74 , 
78 , 88 in 71 Majorganj Assembly Constituency were also counted 
in favour of the respondent No. 1. On several protests the ballots of 
booths namely 86 , 91 and 74 were only checked up by the Asst. 
Returning Officer , and it was found that 37 ballot papers had been 

wrongly accepted in favour of respondent No . 1 . 
( d ) that the ballot papers marked against the respondent No. 1 and the 

respondent No . 3 were counted in favour of the respondent No . 1 
and consequently about 157 ballots of booth Nos . 1, 3, 4 to 6 , 11, 18 , 
20 . 32 , 60 , 62 in 71 Majorganj Assembly Constituency and in booth 
Nos . 7 , 9 , 10 , 11, 12 , 13 , 15, 16 , 17 , 21, 29 in Sitamarhi Assembly 

Constituency were accepted in favour of the respondent No . 1 . 
( e ) that the ballot papers especially marked in the column of the peti 

tioner but the impression due to wrong folding appearing in the 
column of the respondent No . 1 were accepted and counted in 
favour of the respondent No. 1 . About 165 valld votes of booth 
Nos. 37, 14 , 15 . 33 . 34 in 70 Shechar Assembly Constituency and 
6 , 21, 36 , 51, 77 , 78 , 83 , 24 , 95 in 68 Bathnaha Assembly Constituency 
and of booth Nos. 2 , 4 , 6 , 9 , 10 , 28, 29 , 40, 68 , 75 , 93 , 94 in 67 Sita 
marhi Assembly Constituency , marked in favour of the petitioner 
were improperly accepted and counted in favour of the respondent 
No . 1. The counting agents used to raise objection from time to 
time but no heed af all times was paid by the Asst. Returning 
Oncer . 


( f ) that the ballot papers with a mark within the column of the petitioner 

but smudge against that of respondent No. 1 and 2 were rejected . 
About 200 votes cast in favour of the petitioner at booth Nos. 8 , 
12 , 19 , 30, 47, 55 , 71, 72, 83 , 84, 88, 89 , 90 of 72 Sonbarsa Assembly 

Constituency were rejected by the Asst . Returning Officer . 
( g ) that the ballot papers specially marked in favour of the petitioner 

but the impression due to wrong folding appearing in the column 
of the respondent No. 2 were accepted and counted in favour of 
the respondent No. 2 . Due to this about 250 votes cast in favour 
of the petitioner at booth Nos . 10 , 11 , 12 , 13, 16 , 31, 35 , 36 , 50 , 51 , 
57, 58 , 59 , 75 , 78 . 85 , 99 in 72 Sonbarse Assembly Constituency and 
booth Nos. 22 , 26 33 , 35 , 38 . 45 , 46 , 67, 83, 84, 86 , 87 , 89 , 90 in 67 
Sitamarhi Assembly Constituency were counted with the votes of 

the respondent No. 2 . 
( h ) this method of counting adopted by the Asst. Returning Officer conti 

nued till the last moment and about 1200 valld votes of the peti 
tioner were rejected as well as counted with the votes of the res 
pondents No. 1 and others ." 


Lastly , paragraph 28 reads : 


" That as a result of the aforesaid illegalities committed by the Assistant 

Returning Officer , more than 200 valid votes cast in favour of the 
petitioner were rejected as invalid votes and more than two thousand 
votes cast in favour of the petitioner and other candidates were mixed 
up with the votes of respondent No . 1." 


6 . Learned counsel for the petitioner points out that in paragraph 27 adequate 
particulars of the different kinds of irregularities and illegalities in the counting 
of ballot papers of each of the six Assembly Constituencies have been set out 
and , therefore , the first condition to justify an order for inspection of the ballot 
papers must be deemed to have been fulfilled . Learned counsel for the petitioner 
has then drawn my attention to the evidence of 21 witnesses who have been 
examined in support of the petitioner s case relating to the alleged irregularities 
and illegalities in the counting of ballot papers in respect of all the six Assembly 
constituencies. These witnesses have deposed that they had acted as counting 


1424 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1988, ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II-- 


Agents of the petitioner in the counting of the ballot papers of the different 
constituencies as follows: 


Date 


Assembly constituency 


Witnesses 


23 - 2 - 1967 
24 -2 - 1967 
24-2 - 1967 
25 -2 - 1967 
25 -2 -1967 
25 -2- 1967 


Sursand 
Sheohar 
Majorganj 
Sitamarhi 
Sonbarsa 
Bathanaha 


P . Ws. 1 , 8, II, 14 , 16 , 20 and 23 
P . WS, 1 , 9 , 12 , 15, and 23 
P . WS, 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 14 . 16 , 17, & 20 
P . W8. 1, 6 , 7 , 10 , 11, 15 and 20 
P . W8, 5, 13, 16 , 17 , 18 and 23 . 
P . Ws. 1, 2 , 3 , 9 , 11 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 

17 , 18 and 23. 


Besides , the petitioner himself as P . W . 29 has dcposed about such irregularities 
and illegalities in the matter of counting of votes . He has also proved his peti 
tion ( Ext. 3 ) which he had Aled before the Returning Officer at Muzaffarpur on 
26th February 1967, and another petition (Ext . 3 ) which he had Mled before the 
Assistant Returning Officer at Sitamarhi on the 25th February , 1907. 


summas sina respect of the ballategories were committalrregularities 


(to)Baleares en 


7 . According to the case put forward on behalf of the petitioner , irregularities 
and illegalities of substantially the same categories were committd on all the 
Uree dates of counting in respect of the ballot papers of all the six constituencies . 
They may be summarised as follows. 
( i) Ballot papers which bore cross marks in favour of the petitioner were 

counted in favour of respondent No . 1 or in favour of respondent 

No . 2 ; 
( ii ) Ballot papers which were At to he rejected were counted in favour of 

respondent No . 1 ; 
( iii ) Ballot papers validly marked in favour of the petitioner were rejected ; 
( iv ) Ballot papers bearing cross marks on a substantial portion of the peti 

tioner s symbol but extending a little in the shaded area were rejected 

as invalid ; 
( v ) Ballot papers bearing cross marks on the petitioner s symbol in which 

some ink stain or impression due to defective tolding appeared in 
the column of respondent No 1 or respondent No. 2 were counted 

as yalid votes of the latter , as the case might be; 
( vi ) Ballot papers in which cross mark in the column of the petitioner was 

smudged were rejected . All the 21 witnesses referred to above have 
deposed to such irregularities in whole or in part in their own way . 
Several of them have also specified the serial numbers of some of 
the booths in regard to which they claim to have seen such irregularl 

ties in counting being done. For example P . W . 3 has deposed : 
" On 24th February 1967 I noticed that many ballot papers bearing cross 

mark on tree symbol were bundled up with ballot papers bearing 
cross mark on bullock symbol. Ballot papers bearing faint cross 
mark on tree symbol used to be rejected as invalid . In this manner 
five or seven ballot papers were rejected as Invalid . Ballot papers 
containing cross mark in a major portion of the tree symbol and 
the rest on the shaded portion used to be rejected . In this way 
10 or 15 ballot papers were rejected as Invalid . Ballot papers bear 
Ing only a small portion of cross mark on the horse symbol and 
major portion on the shaded area used to be counted as valid ballot 
papers in favour of the candidate with horse symbol . I had seen 
such irregularities being committed on my counting table . On table 
No. 11 where I was seated . I had noticed such irregularities in 
respect of ballot papers of booths Nos. 11. 47 and 71 . In all, 50 
or 55 ballot papers were invalidly dealt with on that table in my 
presence ." 


SLU . 8 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3125 


In regard to the counting of Bathanaha ballot papers which he had seen on 25th 
February 1967, P . W . 3 has said that he had seen irregularities of similar kind 
being committed in the matter of counting of ballot papers in respect of booth 
Nos. 86 and 101, of which 30 or 40 ballot papers were wrongly dealt with . Like 
wise, P . W . 4 has claimed to have seen irregularities of such character in the 
counting of ballot papers of Majorganj booths Nos, 62 and 74 . P . W . 5 saw the 
same thing about the ballot papers of Majorganj booth No. 69 and Sombarsa 
booth No . 62 . P . W . 6 has deposed about such Irregularities particularising Major 
ganj booth Nos . 7 , 19 , 31 , 43 , 55 , 67, 79 and 91, and P . W . 7 spoke about the ballot 
papers of Majorganj booth No . 84 , in particular, Similar is the evidence with 
respect to ballot papers of particular booths of some of the other witnesses , such 
as P . W . 9 , who has particularised booths Nos . 85 and 100 of Bathanaha , P . W . 10 . 
who has particularised Sitamarhi booth No . 15 , P . W . 12 who has particularised 
Sheohar booths Nos. 22 and 34 and P . W . 14 has spoken about Sursand booths 
Nos . 2 , 14 , 26 , 38 , 50 and 62, in particular . 


8 . At first sight it would no doubt appear that the petitioner has lead specific 
evidence to a considerable extent in support of the case set up by him with 
respect to some of the specific booths of each of the six Assembly constituencies, 
but a little close examination will make it abundantly clear that what is appa 
rent is not the real state of things . 


9 . At this stage it is necessary to refer to the petitioner s own case in para 
graph 21 of the election petition where it has been stated : 
" That three persons used to scrutinise and count votes on each counting 

table at a time, making it impossible for the counting agents of the 
petitioner to examine whether the scrutiny and sorting of ballot were 
being done properly ." 


I have already quoted paragraph 27 in which grievance has been made of the 
fact that the counting agents of the petitioner were not allowed to take any notes 
of irrcgularities in the name of secrecy of ballot papers" , and that all the facts 
stated in sub -paragraphs ( a ) to ( h ) of paragraph 27 were brought to the notice 
of the petitioner by his counting agents from their memories . Again in his peti. 
tion ( Ext. 3 ) to the Assistant Returning Omcer , the grievance of the petitioner, 
inter alia was that on account of insufficient light and the continuance of count 
ing till late hours, his counting agents could not attend to the counting properly 
as they were also feeling sleepy . Therefore , it does not stand to reason that 
the counting agents of the petitioner could have noticed such large scale irregu . 
larities in the matter of counting of ballot papers which they could have retained 
in their memory even up to the stage when the petitioner had drawn up his 
election petition on the basis of information given to him by them . If there was 
no adequate facility for knowing the actual manner in which the counting of 
ballot papers had taken place , then it is manifest that all the particulars of the 
Irregularities which are to be found in sub -paragraphs ( a ) to ( R ) of paragraph 
27 of the election petition have been sold from imagination . Likewise, if the 
counting agents were not allowed to take any notes of such irregularities , then 
it is inconceivable that those persons could have retained in their memory the 
serial numbers of the booths in respect of which they claim to have seen parti 
cular categories of irregularities in counting. That would indicate that the claim 
which several of the counting agents of the petitioner have inade about remem : 
bering the Irregularities in counting of ballot papers of specific booths is prima 
facie unacceptable . 


10 . Faced with the situation that it would be impossible to induce the Court 
to hold that the counting agents of the petitioner were all the time retaining in 
their memories the serial number of booths in connection with particular kinds 
or irregularities in counting, some of the witnesses stated that they did prepare 
notes of such irregularities . One such witness is P . W . 5 , who has said : 
" I had made a note of my own about the irregularities in the counting of 

ballot papers which I could observe. That note of mine is no longer 
in my possession as I had handed it over to Ramanarash Singh ( P . W . 
1 ) on the same day . Before coming to depose in this Court I have 
refreshed my memory about the various particulars , of irregularities 
in counting which I have described by looking into my said note in 

possession of Ramnaresh Singh . 
Not only the evidence of P . W . 5 is in conflict with the case set up by the peti 
tioner in his election petition , but it also betrays the fact that P . W . 5 or other 


3426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 
- - - - 

= _ = : . 
witnesses on the point of counting did not remember anything about the parti 
culars of irregularities in counting in respect of ballot papers of individual booths, 
They secm to have deposed with reference to some artificial, notes prepared 
merely for the purpose of helping them in giving evidence in Court. I may also 
refer to the evidence of P . W . 11 who has said : 
" At the conclusion of the counting of Sursand ballot papers , I had , on 23rd 

February 1967, presented a petition containing my objections before 
the Assistant Returning Officer , . . . In the said petition of mine I 
had described the various categories of irregularllies which I had 
noticed in course of the counting. On the same evening I had told 
Thakur Saheb the fact that so many ballot papers of such booths 
had been wrongly accepted and so many ballot papers of such and 
such booths had been wrongly counted . I had also on the same 
occasion told Thakur Saheb in broad outline the different categories 
of ballot papers wrongly dealt with during counting. It is possible 
that I have in my possession a copy of my petition which I had 
handed over to the Assistant Returning Omicer on 23th February 1987. 
I had handed over that copy of my petition to Thakur Saheb So 
that he might Alle it in the present election case . That petition of 
minę or its copy , if produced before this Court , will reveal the 
details of illegally rejected and wrongly counted ballot papers of 
each booth of Sursand constituency . 


It is manifest that all this evidence of P . W . 11 is, on the face of it , unreliable , 
It is entirely inconsistent with the case set up in paragraphs 21 and 27 of the 
election petition and with the complalnt of the petitioner made in Ext . 3 . Had 
the evidence which P . W . 11 has given been true, then the petitioner would not 
have stated that he has done in Ext. 3 and would have taken steps to get the 
alleged petition or note of P . W . 11 dated 23th February 1967 proved on his behalf , 
Then that would have corroborated the claim which P . W . 11 has made about 
having observed illegalities of irregularities in the matter of counting of ballot 
papers of particular booths and of particular categories . The non - production of 
such papers must lead to the Inference that P . W . 11 and other witnesses of this 
type have given evidence which is , on the fact of it, unacceptable . Similar is 
the case with the evidence of P . W . 12 who has claimed not only that he had 
handed over a rough note which he had made boothwise about the number of 
wrongly rejected and wrongly counted ballot papers to the petitioner on the day 
of counting itself , but that the petitioner had also Aled a petition before the 
Returning Omcer , after the conclusion of the counting , on 24th February 1967, 
incorporating therein specific details of the different irregularities in the counting 
of ballot papers . Upon the petitioner s own case , such evidence is unacceptable , 
P . W . 18 also has gone beyond the case of the petitioner by saying that he had 
made rough notes of the Irregularities in counting which had come to his notice 
and that he had handed over his rough notes to the petitioner . 

11. The whole attempt of some of the witnesses of the petitioner to induce 
me to hold that they had seen and remembered about the different types of 
irregularities in counting the ballot papers of some of the speciAc booths because 
they had made their own notes in regard to them has failed . But if on the other 
hand , none of the counting agents had made any note relating to these matters, 
as the petitioner s own case seems to Indicate , then it is impossible to believe 
that these witnesses could have orally remembered all the while what particular 
type of irregularities were committed in respect of the ballot papers of what 
particular booths. Even on this footing, therefore, their evidence appears to me 
to be prima facie unacceptable . On the other hand , such of the counting agents 
of the petitioner who did not claim to have made any notes or Aled any petition , 
cannot expect this Court to act upon their own vague or general evidence relating 
to every conceivable category of irregularities in the counting of ballot papers . 

12 . The unreliable character of the evidence adduced by the petitioner is clear 
from another circumstance. Several of the witnesses of the petitioner asserted 
in their evidence that in respect of the irregularities which some of them saw 
being repeatedly done in the counting of ballot papers , they had Aled written 
petitions before the Assistant Returning Officer, I have already made reference 
to one such alleged written petition of P . W . 11. a copy of which he claimed to 
have handed over to the petitioner so that he might Ale it in the present election 
case. That petition has neither been called for, nor its copy has been produced 
in evidence on behalf of the petitioner . The inference is obvious that the evi 
dence thus given by P . W . 11 is unbelievable . Another witness P . W . 23 has claimed 
that he had filęd not less than six protest petitions before the Assistant Returning 


Sec . 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3427 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


Officers at the stage of counting ; one on 23rd February 1967 , two on 24th February 
1967 and three on 25th February 1967 , relating to the illegal disposal of ballot 
papers, but none of those petitions are forthcoming in this case. Written peti 
tions are also claimed to have been Aled before the Assistant Returning Officer 
by P .Ws, 1 , 2 , 7, 9 , 15 and 27 . Alleged copies of some of them have also been 
joined as Annexures A , B , C and D to the election petition , but none of them 
has been exhibited in the case, thereby destroying the reliability of the evidence 
which the petitioner has adduced in support of this part of his case. 


13 . Many of these witnesses have claimed that they had orally informed the 
petitioner about the different categories of irregularitics in the counting of ballot 
papers , and yet the petitioner wrote in Ext. 3 that adequate opportunity was not 
afforded to his counting agents to see how the counting was being done. If Ext. 3 
were to be preferred as a contemporaneous record , then the entire oral evidence 
adduced in Court about the petitioner having been informed either orally or in 
writing about the various categories of irregularities , deposed to by his witnesses , 
Is falşifled . 


14 . In this connection it should also be borne in mind that according to the 
evidence of some of the witnesses of the petitioner such as P . W . 7 , 10 and 14 , 
the petitioner had personally visited the counting chamber when the counting 
was going on . P . W . 7 has deposed : 
" While counting was in progress , Thakur Saheb used to visit the counting 

chamber , and to him also I had mentioned about the various irrégu 

larities in counting , as described by me." 
P .Ws. 10 and 14 have both said that the petitioner had corne to the counting 
chamber while the counting was going on . In his own evidence the petitioner 
( P . W . 29 ) has said that he had visited the counting chamber from time to time 
on each of the three dates . On 23rd Fabruary 1967, he was there for about ten 
minutes at the stage when the counting was on the point of being closed . On 
24th February 1967 he was there for about 45 minutes . The petitioner has further 
deposed that some of his counting agents had told him that they had Aled pro 
test petitions and some others had said that thcy had raised oral protests before 
the Assistant Returning Officer but " I did not consider it necessary to Ale any 
petition before the Asst . Returning Officer or the Returning Officer cither on 23rd 
February 1967 or 24th February 1967 " . He has further admitted that Ext. 3 was 
the only petition which he had Aled before the Assistant Roturning Officer regard 
ing the countings held on 23rd February 1967 and 24th February 1967" on the 
basis of the information which my counting agents had given to me concerning 
the illegalities and irregularities in the counting of ballot papers. Besides such 
information of my counting agents , I had also based my petition ( Ext. 3 ) upon 
the results of test checks held on 23rd February 1967 and 24th February 1987" . 
Therefore the alleged information which the counting agents gave to the petitioner 
was that they were unable to observe properly how the counting was being done 
on account of various reasons, such as, insufficiency of light or sleepiness . There 
fore. the whole case set up in sub -paragraphs ( a ) to (h ) of paragraph 27 of the 
election petition anpeors to me to be product of imagination , being based upon 
information which could never been given to the petitioner by any of his counting 
agents . That seems to me the reason why even in Ext. 2 . which the petitioner 
Aled before the Rcturning Officer on thc following day , no mention was made 
of the serial number of a single booth which are to be found in paragraph 27 
of the election petition . It seems to me, therefore , that all the particulars given 
in paragraph 27 are based upon imagination , and not upon information which 
the petitioner could have gathered either himselt or through his counting agents . 

15 . The petitioner was not an ordinary candidate in the election . He had 
fought three general elections , though unsuccessfully each time. He had been 
returned to the Parliament once in a bye - election in 1952-53. In 1962, respondent 
No. 1 was his rival but when the petitioner lost that election , he Aled an election 
petition against respondent No . 1 , though it was unsuccessful before the Tribunal 
as well as the High Court. The petitioner ( P . W . 29 ) has admitted : 
" I have read the election law several times . I have also read several 

decisions on election law . " 


Therefore, had the different witnesses deposed truly that they had informed the 
petitioner about the various categories of irregularities in the matter of counting 
of ballot papers, specially in respect of particular booths, then the petitioner 
would not have worded his petitions ( Exts, 2 and 3 ) as he has done. He would 
not have sald Ext. 3 that his counting agents had seen nothing and in Ext . 2 


3.128 


" HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- . - .- 


- - - - - - 


-WALL 


. . . 


- 


- 


he would not have omitted to mention all or most of the particulars which he 
has mentioned in sub - paragraphs ( a ) to (h ) of paragraph 27 of the election 
petition . Ext. 2 would never have remained silent about any booth of any of 
the six constituencies . Therefore , it seems to me that it was from pure imagina 
tion after 26th February 1967 that certain particulars were thought out and in 
corporated in the election petition , and for the purpose of proving them a large 
number of witnesses have been examined , several of whom have deposed about 
specific booths from pure imagination , since there is nothing in their evidence 
from which one can think that they could have some special reason to remember 
how the ballot papers of any particular booth or booths were dealt with , more 
than one year ago . I, therefore, do not feel impressed either with the case which 
the petitioenr has set up in paragraph 27 or with the evidence upon which he 
seeks to rely . The casc set up in the election petition is self contradictory and 
the evidence adduced by the petitioner is prima facie unacceptable . 


16 . The result sheet in Form 20 would show that on the first day of counting , 
namely , at the counting of Sursand ballot papers , the petitioner had secured 
22 , 259 less votes than respondent No. 1. Therefore, if huch large scale bunging 
in the counting of ballot papers would have taken place , then the petitioner would 
not have remained quiet and merely applied for test- checks from time to time, 
but would have flled his protest petition on 23rd February 1967 itsell , or on the 
following day. To me it appears that the entire case relating to Irregularities 
in the matter of counting of ballot papers set up at great length in the election 
petition is a product of the petitioner s imagination . That being so , it cannot 
legitimately be maintained that the petitioner has made out a prima facie case 
to justify an order for inspection of the ballot papers . 


17 . The petitioners has challenged the integrity of both the counting officers , 
Sri K . B . Saxena and Sri S . Choudhary . His evidence is that he had dispute 
with both of them . But it is significant to note that in his petition ( Ext . 2 ) 
before the Returning Officer , the petitioner made no complaint against the inte 
grity of either of the two Assistant Returning Officers . In Ext. 2 , the case which 
the petitioner put forward before the District Magistrate was " that some of the 
members of the counting party and counting supervisors were prejudiced from 
before against the petitioner and many of them under both heads collecting party 
and counting supervisors were friends and distant relative of Shri Nagendra 
Prasad Yadava " . Therefor, the grievance which the petitioner has made against 
the Assistant Returning Officers is obviously an after - thought and no order for 
Inspection of ballot papers can be justified on the ground that the Assistant Re 
turning Officers were biased against the petitioner . 


18 . Great stress is laid on behalf of the petitioner upon the fact that as a 
result of certain test - checks held during the counting at the instance of the peti 
tioner , certain mistakes were noticed which were set right . In this context, 
learned counsel for respondent No. 1 made an offer to the learned counsel for 
the petitioner to specify the serial numbers of a few booths, the ballot papers 
of which could be inspected in order that the evidence which the petitioner has 
given as to the categories of Irregularities might be tested and checked up . But 
learned counsel for the petitioner did not agree to this suggestion and insisted 
that the ballot papers of each and every booth , the total number of which is 577 
in all the six Assembly Constituencies, should be opened up and inspected . It 
seems to me that the real purpose of the present inspection petition is to take 
a chance and made a reving Inquiry into the ballot boxes with a view to prove, 
if possible , that the results oť the election were materially affected on account 
of wrong counting of ballot papers . In my judgment, it will not at all be in the 
interest of Justice to expose the secrecy of the ballot papers of 577 booths for 
any such purpose . 


19 . Even in Ext. 3 , the petitioner could not assert that he had secured a 
majority of valld votes. There he said : 
" As there is a margin of few votes and so we expect that on l ecounting 

the results may be otherwise . " 


20 . Thus, having given a very careful consideration to the prayer made on 
behalf of the petitioner , I have come to the conclusion that this is not a At case 
in which I would be justified in allowing the petitioner an access into the ballot 
papers so that he might fish out evidence in support of his case , 


SEC. 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


3129 


- 


- - - ... - - . 


21. The result , therefore, is thar the petition for inspection of the ballot papers 
is rejected . 


Sd ./- G . N . PRASAD 


PATNA HIGH COURT . 
The 23rd April, 1968. 


No. 82 / BR -23 / 87.) 


New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 


S . O . 2547. — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 
15th May , 1968 by the High Court Judicaturc at Patna in Election Petition No. 
24 of 1967. 


ELECTION PETITION NO. 24 OF 1907 


In the matter of an application under section 80A and 81 of the Representation 
of the People Act . 


Sri Mohan Singh Cheroi - -Petitioner. 


Versus 
Sri Alhaj I. Ahmad - Opposite Party . 
For the petitioner : Messrs. Kanhaiya Prasad Verma, Akhoury Binod Sekhar 

Sinha, Devendra Prasad Sinha and Kamla Kant Prasad . 
For the opposite party : Messrs. Braj Kishore Prasad II and Kamal Nayan 

Chobey . 


PRESENT : 

The Hon ble Mr, Justice A . B . N . Sinha . 


A . B . N . SINHA , J . — The petitioner , Sri Mohan Singh Oberoi, has flled this 
upplication under section 80A and 81 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 
(hereinafter referred to as the Act ) challenging the election of the respondent, 
Srl Alhaj I. Ahmad , who has been elected to the Lok Sabha from ihe single 
member Giridih Parliamentary constituency at the last general election . 


2. At the last Parliamentary election held in February , 1967 , there were four 
candidates including the petitioner and the sole respondent for election to the 
Parliament from the Giridih Parliamentary Constituency . The petitioner was the 
Jan Kranti Dal candidate , while the respondent was the Congress candidate . The 
candidates for the Communist Party and the Jan Sangh Party werę Sri Shakti Kant 
Sahaya and Sri Ram Krishna Prasad respectively . While the respondent the 
Congress candidate secured at the said election 70 , 219 votes the petitioner - - the Jan 
Kranti Dal candidate secured only 66 , 388 votes , and the other two candidates , 
namely , Sri Ram Krishna Prasad -- the Jan Sangh candidate secured 37,915 votes 
and Sri Shaliti Kant Sahay - the Communist candidate secured 25 ,561 votes. The 
counting was done on the 26th February , 1967 , and the respondent was declared 
electared to the Lok Sabha from the Giridih Parliamentary constituency . 


3 . In the election petition , the election of the respondent has been sought to 
be challenged on more than one ground, but the only ground which has been 
pressed at the hearing and in support of which evidence has been adduced , is the 
ground relating to the alleged commission of corrupt practices as defined in sub 
sections ( 3 ) , (3A ) and ( 4 ) of section 123 of the Act by the respondent himself or by 
his election agent or by other agents and workers with the congent of the res 
pondent or his election agent. The challenge that the election petition was bar 
red by limitation or that there was any defect in the verification of the election 
petition and that the respondent was not qualified to be a candidate for election 
frorn the Giridih Parliamentary constituency , and that the acceptance of the nomi 
nation paper was illegal and invalid , was not pressed , and no evidence was led 


3430 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 ;ASADHA 29, 1990 [ PART 11 
= - - - S 
on these points . Thus, of the Alve issues, which were framed in this case , the 
only issue which falls for determination is issue No. 4 . which reads as under , 
" Did the respondent or his election agent or other agents and workers, with 

the consent of the respondent or his election agents , commit corrupt 
practices as alleged by the petitioner in paragraph 9 to 26 , and has 

the result of the election been materially affected thereby. " 
4 . The relevant allegations as made in the election petition and their denial 
as made in the respondent s written statement on which the above issue was 
raised may now be briefly set out. Paragraph 9 states that the respondent, 
his election agent, his agents and workers with their consent committed corrupt 
practice under section 123 ( 3 ) and section 123 (3A ) of the Act. In paragraph 10 
of the petition , it has been alleged that the respondent was a Muslim and that 
he and his agents including the election agent and supporters with his consent 
had sought yotes from the Muslim voters in the constituency on the ground of 
Muslim religion and community, and , further that they were making appeals to 
those to refrain from voting in favour of the Communist and other candidates 
in the name of the religion and community . In paragraph 11, it has been alleged 
that the respondent along with his supporters and agents including his election 
agent had promoted feelings of enmity and hatred between Muslims and non 
Muslims as well as between Muslim and Communist and others on the one hand 
and Jan Sangh on the other for the furtherance of the prospect of the respondent s 
election and for practising the election of the other candidate. In paragraphs 12 
and 13 , it has been stated that the respondent in order to secure the votes of 
the Muslim voters , who constituted a large percentage of the total 
population of the Giridih Parliamentary constituency and further in order to 
create enmity and hatred between the Muslim and non -Muslim , had got three 
leaflets (Annexure A , B and C to the petition ) printed and published in the 
name of one Moulvi Md. Manjour Alam , who was a religious leader of the 
Mohamadans and who was a supporter of the respondent, against the provisions 
of sub - sections ( 3 ) and 3A of section 123 of the Act . Two of the leaflets were 
printed at Madhukar Press , while the third at Tilak Press , both situated at 
Giridih . It was alleged that these leaflcts were distributed by and on behalf 
of the respondent of the aforesaid three offending leaflets , one having the cap . 
tion " Interwadi Fatwa" ( election command ) and the other having " Insan Numa 
Darinde" (human cannibal) were printed at Madhukar Press ; and , the third which 
was printed at Tllak Press , Giridih , had the caption " aat ka election " ( Today s 
election ) . The leaflet, marked Annexure A according to paragraph 14 , was 
issued in the name of God and religion by a religion bead to the Muslim voters in 
the constituency to vote for the respondent as also to create hatred against the 
70n -Muslim voters . In paragraph 15 , it has been alleged that the three offend 
ing leaflets were read out at the election meetings on different dates , and the 
rontents were amplified by the respondent and his supporters and they were also 
distributed among the voters . While the statement made in paragraphs 18 and 
17 are more or less repetitions of what has been stated in paragraphs 10 and 11 , in 
paragraph 18 the petitioner has made out a case that the respondent 
and his agents and supporters in presence of the respondent not only read out 
and distributed the offending leaflets at different places on different dates but 
also made oral appeals in the name of Muslim religion and community with a view 
to secure Muslim votes in favour of the respondent and to promote feelings of 
hatred between Muslims and non -Muslims voters. Paragraph 19 seeks to give 
the particulars about the meetings held by the respondent along with his agents 
and supporters at which , it was alleged , the aforesaid three leaflets were ex 
plained and distributed and oral speeches were made. By means of an amplifi 
cation petition , the words " at other places on different dates by his Election 
Agent, Sri Mohjuddin Ahmad , along with other workers of Respondent" as 
occurring in paragraph 19 were sought to be amplified and as many as four dates 
were further given on which it hos alleged the Election Agent of the Respondent 
along with other workers if the Respondent held meetings at four different places 
wherein the contents of the offending leaflets were read out and explained and 
those leaflets were distributed . In paragraph 20 , the source from which the leaflet 
marked Annexures A , and C were received by the Petition has been stated 
and it has been further stated that some other voters who had received the afore 
said leaflets have preserved them on the advice of the workers and well -wishers 
of the petitioner and of the other two defeated candidates . In paragraphs 21 , 22 
23 and 25 . It has been alleged that either through reading out the contents of the 
offending leaflets or by making oral appeals on the same lines as the contents of 
those leaflets , the Respondent or his supnorters who were all communal- minded 
persons committed corrupt practices within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) and 
section 123 (3A ) of the Act. In paragraphs 24 and 26 . it has been alleged that 
the respondent, his agents and workers with his consent also committed , whether 


Suc . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3431 


S 


. 


by distributing the leaflets like Annexures A and B or otherwise, corrupt prac 
tices within the meaning of sub - section (4 ) of section 123 of the Aet by making 
statements against the personal character and conduct of other candidates which 
were false and which the persons responsible for the distribution of the leaflets 
or for making oral speeches did not believe to be true . From the particulars 
mentioned in paragraph 19 of the petition and from those mentioned in the 
amplification petition , it appears that meetings were alleged to have been held 
at as many as eleven places within the constituency on different dates from the 
4th February, 1967 to the 18th February , 1967; and, at least at seven of those 
meetings, namely , at Satgawan on the 12th February , 1967 , at Bermo and Durai 
on the 18th February , 1867 , at Dhanwar on the 14th February , 1967 at Damua 
on the 16th February, 1967 and at Giridih and Pachamba on the 18th 
February , 1967, the respondent is alleged to have personally attended . 
The meeting alleged to have been held at Bengabad on the 4th February , 1967 , 
at Chaphuari on the 5th February , 1967, at Dhalskdiha on the 16th February , 
1967 and at Maheshmudda on the 12th February, 1967 are alleged to have beer 
attended by the respondent s Election Agent, Sri Mohiuddin Ahmad . alongwith 
other workers of the respondent. 


5 . The respondent in his written statement filed on the 3rd July , 1967, has 
categorically denied the truth of each and every allegation made in pragraphs 
9 to 26 of the election petition . He has asserted that no corrupt practice , as 
alleged , was committed by the respondent or by his election agent or by the 
respondent s other agents or workers with the respondent s or his Election Agent s 
knowledge or consent. Neither he nor his election agent or any one on his 
behalf to his knowledge or with his consent sought vote from any member of 
the Muslim community in the name of the Muslim religion or commu 
nity , nor was ever any appeal made by Muslim voters to refrain from 
voting the Communist or other candidates on the ground of religion . 
It has been further asserted that it is absolutely baseless to say that the 
respondent or his Election Agent or any of his agents or supporters 
ever created any feeling of enmity and hatred between the Muslims and non 
Muslims. The respondent has categorically denied the Publication or distribution 
of any leaflets in contravention of the provisions of sections 123 ( 3 ) and 123 ( 3A ) 
of the Act. In fact , according to the respondent, he did not get any of the leaflets 
mentioned in paragraph 13 of the election petition printed , nor did he get them 
published in the name of Moulvi Mohammad Manzoor Alam , who , according 
to the respondent, was not a supporter of his . Indeed , the respondent did not 
even know that Moulvi Mohammad Manzoor Alam was a religious leader of the 
Muslims in the Giridih Parliamentary constituency and the respondent had no 
knowledge about the distribution of any of the leaflets in question any where at 
any time, as alleged . It has been asserted that the respondent had no knowledge 
about the existence of the leaflets mentioned in paragraph 13 of the election peti 
tion and annexed as Annexures A , B and ¢ to the said petition until his attention 
was drawn in the office of the Congress Mandal Committee , Giridih , on the 15th 
February , 1967 to the issue of Ranchi Express a Hindi weekly published from , 
Ranchi dated the 12th February , 1967. where in extracts of certain pamphlets 
under the heading " AJKA ELECTION " . " ENTEKHAB FATWA " . and " INSAN 
NOMA DARINDE" , supposed to have been printed at the Tilak Press, Giridih 
had been published , and that on perusal of the same the respondent alongwith 
Shri Raghunandan Ram , M . L . A ., ( R . W . 5 ) and Shri Ram Narain Prasad, Advocate , 
President, Mandal Congress Committee Giridih ( R . W . 4 ) issued a contradiction to 
the same in a pamhplet published under their signature from the Quality Printers 
Fress Giridih , on the 16th February , 1967 and got the said pamphlet distributed 
widely throughout the constituency. Therein , they denied any connection with 
the leaflets purported to have been published by Md . Manzoor Alam stating clear 
ly that those leaflets had been published or printed without the consent of the 
Congress Committee or the Congress candidate and that whoever had published 
them had so published in conspiracy and collaboration with the opponents of 
the Congress candidate in order to damage their cause . In paragraph 23 of the 
written statement, it was asserted that the leaflets , as they are, did not contra 
vene the provisions of section 123 of the Act. The particulars . as mentioned in 
paragraph 13 or paragraph 19 of the election petition , were characterised as 
vague, lacking in specifications and of a too general nature which made it im 
possible to specifically deny the allegation made therein . The allegations made 
in paragraph 26 of the election petition about the oral statements and speeches 
against the personal character and conduct of other candidates by the respondent 
or by his election agent or workers has also been emphatically denied . 


6 . On the pleadings summarised above the questions which arise are : ( 1 ) 
whether the offending leaflets fell within the mischief of clauses ( 3 ) and ( 3A ) of 


3432 


" HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1.890 


(Part II 


section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ; (2 ) whether the res 
pondent got those leaflets printed and published ; ( 3 ) whether the case that the 
respondent or his election agent had read out, explained and distributed those 
leaflets and had made oral speeches on the lines of those leaflets at places and on 
dates as mentioned in paragraph 18 of the election petition or in the amplification 
petition in respect thereof was true; and , ( 4 ) whether the case that the respondent, 
his agent and his workers with his consent committed corrupt practices within 
the meaning of clauses ( 4 ) of section 123 of the Act by making statements against 
the personal character and conduct of other candidates which were false and 
which the persons who made those statements did not believe to be true was 
established . 

7 . On the question whether the contents of the offending leaflets fell within 
the mischief of clauses ( 3 ) and (3A ) of the Act, it will not be necessary to dis , 
cuss the contents of Ext. 3 ( 4 ) , which is the manuscript copy of Annexure C to 
the petition , because learned counsel for the petitioner hardly addressed any 
argument in respect of the same. Nothing was in respect of Annexure B to the 
petition as well. It was, however , urged that the contents of Ext. 3 which was 
the manuscript copy of Annexure A to the petition , offended against clauses 
( 3 ) and ( 3A ) of section 123 of the Act. 

8 . Annexure A (1 ) to the Election Petition , which is the English rendering 
of Ext, 3 reads as under ; 

" Election Command : 
We have unfurled the Aag of Islam everywhere and lowered the heads of 
pagans in the passes of Khybr Amir Shreeat of Bihar & Orissa . Kanab Mintuallah 
Sahib s one election command question . 

Is it proper to vote the Communist Party into power (or ) not ? A religious 
command may be issued so that Muslims of Bihar and Orissa can act on it. 

In answer to this, Janab Mintuallah Sahib his given the following Fatwa . 

A synonym for the movement against God and religion is Communist, More 
over , the economic systein enjoined by Communism is entiiely antithetical to 
the tenets of Islam . 

Ialañ believes in private property. Islam has recognised "Zakat , Isher . 
Sadka and Fitra . Based on this Islam has set up a law of succession for property 
after man s death . According to this law of inheritance enjoined by Islam , the pro 
perty devolved on the successor of the deceased Communism denies and de 
nounces private property . In terms of Communism everything belongs to the 
state , If a Muslim dies, Islam will ensure property to his rightful suecessor . 
Communism says that the entire property should be vested in the State Bank 
In view of the above it is not proper for a Muslim to vote an anti-God a theistic 
party , which is absolutely opposed to the fundamental and basic tenets of Islam . 
Mintullah Aamir Shreeat, Bihar and Orissa (7 , Ramzan 81 Hijree ). 
NOTE : - Beware of the fraud and deceity of the Communist Party . In 

1962 elections , the Communist Party framed up cases against some 
so called Muslims and made them tender false evidence in courts but 
in spite of that Ramzan Mian and Badri Bhuian , etc ., were released by 

the authority and a case is still pending In Hazaribagh . 
Communist parade themselves as peace mongers . They outwardly pamper 

labour but really eat into their vitals . Therefore , it is incumbent 

on religious grounds, to oppose communist. 
We have to live here and we have to die here . If we are destined for 

death why should be be afraid of death ." 
9 . The contents of the leaflets in question as quoted above show that the 
Muslim yoters of the constituency were asked though it not to vote for the 
Communist Party because communism was " against God and religions , and the 
economic system enjoined by communism was " entirely antithetical to the tenets 
of Islam " . The leaflet further says that the Communist Party has been guilty of 
fraud and deceit and has got false cases started against some " so called Muslims" 
and that its members paraded themselves as " peace mongers " and though they 
outwardly pampered labour they " really eat into their vitals " . It ends by saying 
that it was incumbent on religious grounds to oppose the Communists . On these 
contents ; it has been argued on behalf of the petitioner. that it must be held 
that an appeal was made to the Muslim voters to refrain from voting for the 
Communist candidates on religious grounds, and as such the leaflets offended 
against the first part of sec. 123 ( 3 ) of the Act. Apparently what appears to be 


SFC . 50:1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 3.133 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - _ :.. . - -- - - - - . : . . - - . -- . - - = = - -- . - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - 
contained in the leaflet (Ext. 3 ) in a tirade against communism which was the 
ideology of the Conmunist Party and the writer is quite clearly anxious to bring 
home to the Muslim voters that as communist as such was opposed to the tenets 
of Islam the following of that religion should not vote for the Communist Party . 
Thus, an appeal to the Muslim voters to refrain from voting for the Communist 
candidates at the election in question on religious grounds may be said to be 
implied in the contents to the ollending leaflets , through the economic system 
propounded by communism has also come in for attack and thus the appeal can 
also be said to be partly founded on economic grounds . An attempt was, however , 
made on behalf of the respondent to show that on the facts of this case the leaflets 
could hardly be interpreted as implying on appeal to refrain from voting for a 
Communist candidate , in as much as, the leaflet was given for printing on 18th 
January 1967 which was two days earlier to the last date fixed for filing nomina 
tion papers and as such , it was urged that the writer could hardly have known 
that there would be Communist candidate at the ensuing election . In my opinion , 
there is no substance in this plea . 20th January , 1967 was the last date for filing 
nominations and there is no reason to suppose that Sri Shakti Kent Sahay , the 
communist candidate for the Parliamentary election and Shri Safique Khan , the 
Communist candidate for the Assembly election from Bermo constituency had 
not Alled their nominations earlier or it had not become known that they were 
going to contest the elections as candidates for the communist party. Generally , 
there is a wide spread knowledge amongst people who take any interest in poli 
lice , either local or otherwise ever before nominations are Aled about the candi 
dates Ukely to contest the elections as also about their respective party affiliations. 
The contents of Ext. 3 themselves show that the writer of the leaflet was not 
in ignorance . Accordingly , there appears to be no difficulty in coming to the con 
clusion that the contents of Ext. 3 by implicatic ? amounted to an appeal to the 
Muslim voters to refrain from voting for the Communist candidates on religious 
grounds. But even if that was so , I am of the opinion , that the leaflet did not 
come within the mischief of the first part of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act. The 
question of the leaflet coming within the purview of the second part of that 
section does not obviously arise. There is considerable force and substance in 
the contention of the learned Counsel for the respondent that corrupt practices 
within the meaning of first part of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act can be said to have been 
committed only when an appeal was made to the elctorate on a ground which 
was personal to the candidate for whoni or against whom the appeal had been 
made, and related to the religious, race , caste , community or language of the 
candidate concerned . In the instant case, it was urged on behalf of the respon 
dent that there being no appeal to vote or refrain from voting on the ground 
of the religion of the candidate concerned , the provisions of section 123 ( 3 ) of the 
Act were not attracted . It was submitted that the publication of the leaflet 
( Ext. 3 ) really amounted on the part of ita writer tan exercise of the fundamen 
tal right guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution , and thus its publication 
could not be regarded as a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) 
of the Act . i was uiged that Article 25 of the Constitution guaranteed to all 
persons the right to profess , practice and propagate his religion , subject only to 
restrictions imposed by the State on the grounds mentioned in Article 25 ( 2 ) 
of the Constitution . The right to profess and propagate particular religion car 
ried with it the right to take all steps to conserve the tenets of that religion , 
Viewed from this angle , the publication of the leaflet ( Ext. 3 ) according to the 
learned Counsel amounted hereby a step taken by a Muslim Divine to protect 
the tenets of Islam from the supposed effect on them by the spread of communism 
There may be some substance in this plea, but on the view which I have taken 
in regard to the plea that the leaflet did not come within the mischief of section 
123 ( 3 ) of the Act, I do not think that it is necessary to pursue this point. 

10 . Before dealing with the points raised as aforesaid , the provisions of sec 
tion 123 ( 3 ) of the Act as it stood betore its amendment by Act 40 of 1961 and 
as it stands after the amendments may be set out. The section as it stood before 
the amendment was as follows : 
" Sec. 123. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the 

purposes of this Act: 
( 3 ) The systematic appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person 
10 vote or refrain from voting on grounds of caste, race , community or religion 
or the use of, or appeal to , religious symbols or the use of, or appeal to national 
symbols, such as the national fag or the national emblem , for the furtherance 
of the prospects of that candidate s election ." 
The section as it stands after the amendment reads as under: 

( 3 ) The appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other 
person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain 


3 .434 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 
- - = = = = = -- - - ------ --- - - - - -- --S S = - - 

- = - = 
from voting for any person on the ground of his religion , race , caste , community 
or language or the use of, or appeal to , religious symbols or the use of, or appeal 
to , National Symbols such as the National flag or the national emblem for the 
furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudi 
cially affecting the election of any candidate ." 

It is apparant that before the amendment of section 123 ( 3 ), 
the language employed therein banned any systematic appeal to vote 
or refrain from voting on grounds of religion etc., but by the 
amendment while the word " systematic has been dropped the purpose of the 
appeal has been narrowed down as confined to appeal to vote or refrain from 
voting for any person on the ground of his religion etc . The word " his " in the 
Arst part of section 123 ( 3 ) before the words " religion race , caste , etc. " is very 
significant, and it must be held that the appeal contemplated by the section is 
an appeal to vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his 
religion etc ., in other words, the word " his clearly refers to something personal 
to the candidate for whom or against whom the appeal was being made . Under 
section 123 ( 3 ) as it stood before the amendment the only limitation on the 
appeal to vote or refrain from voting was that it had to be shown that the 
appeal was in the nature of a systematic appeal; but so long as a 
systematic appeal to vote or refrain from voting on grounds of religion 
etc., was made it did not matter whether the candidate concerned pro 
fessed that particular religion or belonged to that particular race , caste 
Or community , in other words, all systematic appeal made to the electorate on 
ground of religion etc ., were banned . The position , however, is different after 
the amendment. In order that the appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any 
other person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or re 
frain from voting may come within the mischief of this section , it must be an 
appeal to vote or refrain from voting for or against the particular person on the 
grounds of that particular person s religion , race , caste , community or language. 
It is, therefore, plain that this part of the section requires the appeal to vote 
or refrain from voting for a candidate at the election on some ground which was 
personal to the candidate concerned like his religion , race, caste etc . A mere 
general appeal to vote or refrain from voting made to the electorate without 
reference to the candidate or candidates concerned and not banned on the 
cadidate s religion , race , community etc ., cannot be held to be a corrupt practice 
under section 123 ( 3 ) as it stands at present. The word " his " , it is manifest, does 
not attach to the voter or to the person who makes the appeal. This view in my 
opinion , finds support from at least two decisions of the Supreme Court . The 
first one is the decision in Kultar Singh v . Mukhtiar Singh ( A . I. R . 1965 S . C . 141) . 
It appears from the decision that their lordship proceeded on the footing that the 
word " his " in the first part of section 123 ( 3 ) attached to the candidate for whom 
or the candidate against whom the appeal had been made. It was on that footing 
that it was held that a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) can be said to have 
been committed by a candidate by appealing to voters to vote for him on the 
ground of his religion , even though the rival candidate may belong to the same 
religion . The second case of the Supreme Court which throws light on the point in the 
case of Jagdev Singh Sidhanti versus Prasto Singh Daulte and others ( A . I. R . 1965 
Supreme Court 193 ) . That was case of appeal to voters to yote or refrain from 
voting on the ground of candidate s language. It was held that it was only 
when the electorate was asked to vote or to refrain from voting because of the 
particular language of the candidate that a corrupt practice may be deemed to 
have been committed , In paragraph 26 of the judgment the true meaning of the 
expression " on the ground of his language" came up for consideration . In that 
connection their Lordship observed as follows: 
" The corrupt practice defined by cl. ( 3 ) of s. 123 is committed when an 

appeal is made either to vote or refrain from voting on the ground 
of the candidate s language. It is the appeal to the electorate on 
a ground personal to the candidate relating to his language which 
attracts the ban of s . 100 read with s. 123 ( 3 ) . Therefore it is only 
when the electors are asked to vote or not to vote because of the 
particular language of the candidate that corrupt practice may be 

deemed to be committed " . 
In the passage extracted above if the word " language" is substituted by the 
word " religion " the true meaning of the expression " on the ground of his reli 
gion " as occurring in the Arst part of section 123 ( 3 ) become clear. It follows 
that general appeal or the lype to the Muslim voters to refrain from voting for 
the Communist candidates on the ground of religion as can be said to be im 
pliedly contained in the contents of Ext. 3 is not sufficient to bring the said 
leaflet within the mischief of the first part of section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act . It has 
not been suggested that the contents of Ext. 3 amounted to an appeal to refrain 
from voting for the Communist candidates on the ground of their religion . In 
deed on the contents no such suggestion could be made. It also could not be 


Sec . % (i1;] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 3435 
- --- - - - - - . - . - - - - - - - -- - - - -- -- - . . - . . . . 

.. . . - - - - - . . - - - -- - - - - - - 
Suggested that there was anything anywhere in the leaflet which could be cons 
trued as an appeal to vote for the respondent on the ground of his rcligion . Ii has 
uirerly been 1112 _itioned auove initi! CCI-11 !:. ! ist cudicare Or election to the 
Parliameat: 65 lindu and the orily Corrmunist candidate for election from 
one of the assembly .Constituencics was a usliun . There is nothing in the loullet 
which can go to suggest that any appeal had been made therein to refrain from 
voling for Shri Shakti facit Sahay , ilo Communist candidate on the ground of his 
religion , For all these reasons, I 011 clearly of the opinion , that the leaflet 
( ?? xv. 3 ) do not cok: Tithin the nis hier of socijor 12 ( 1 ) of the Act. All the 
thrce cases , namely , ( 1 ) Nazmul Haquc v . Amjad Ali and others ( 18 Election 
Law Reports 253 ) , ( 2 ) Rustom Satin 29 . Dr. Sampoornanand and others ( 20 Election 
Law Reports 221) and ( 3 ) Shubnuh Dengar v . Ram Narain Prasad ( A . I. R . 1960 
Slime COL " : 747 ) 011 Whici. Tento wos hacea 0 :1 hohlf of the petitioner 
are cascs coded on the terms of section 123 ( 3 ) as it stood before its ziend 
met in the year 1961. I have already discussed above , the significant differcnce 
j ) the terms 0 .: scction 23 ( 3 ) before and after the amendment, I am , therefore, 

bo view that none of the aforesaid three decisions are of any assistance to 
the petitioner in the present case , 


11. There is also no substance in the plea that the contents of Ext. 3 come 
within the inischief of section 123 ( 3 ) ch the Act. The promotion of or attempt 
tu plomote feelings of onmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens 
of India on ground of religion cle., By a candidate or his agent or any other person 
with the consent of a céndidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the 
wrojects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election 
of any candirlatc is deemed to be a corrupt practice under section 123 (3A ) of 
The Act. It has already been pointed out above that the contents of the leaflets 
amounted to a severe condemnation of the principles of communism on the 
ground that its principles and the economic system which it enjoined were 
against the tenets of Islam . In short , the leaflei may be said to amount to a 
criticism of communism as practiced by the Communist Party ( rom the point 
of view of a following of Islam . According to the learned counsel for the peti 
tioner. Ext. 3 offended against scolion 123 (3A ) because it promoted feelings of 
comity and hatred betwcen those citizens of India who follow the tenets of 
Islam and those who by reason of being members of the Communist Party were 
against these Islamic tenets : the 19tier according to him substituted a " clause" 
within the meaning of section 123 ( 3A ) of the Act . I am unable to uphold this 
contention It is different to cquato a political party like the Communist Party 
with the non -Muslim citize-ng of India It. .. well known that its members arc 
adhrrents of different faiths and it includes both Muslims and non -Muslims, 
Morely because a person is a member of the Communist Party it does not follow 
that he is necessarily against Islam . It is difficult therefore, to accept the con 
tention that the members of the Communist Party constituted a " clause " within 
the meaning of section 123 ( 3A ) of the Act . Moreover there is hardly any room 
for suggesting that the contents of the leaflct amount to promoting feelings of 
enmity and hatred between any iwo classes on the ground of religion . It is 
significant to note that the leaflet speaks of what is personal to those who are 
cominunists ; it does not speak of any anti - Islamic activity on their part or of 
any interference on their part with Islamic religious practices . In substances , 
the leaflet as pointed out earlier brings out the difference in the respective ap 
proaches of the Communist Party and of a follower of Islam to the various prob 
lems in the country. It may be said that there is nothing in the leaflct which 
can be said to offend a Communist because after all it more or less correctly re 
presents the vicw point of a Communist, or of the Communist Party . For all 
these reasons, I am satisfied that the leaſiet in question does not come within the 
mischief of section 123 (3A ) of the Act. 


12 On the question whether the respondent, as alleged , in paragraph 12 and 
13 of the clection petition , got the ofending leaflets including Ext . 3 printed and 
published , there is , in my opinion , no satisfactory evidence . In support of his 
casc the petitioner has examined P , W . 2 , a Compositor of Madhukar Press . He 
has also eiiod on some circunstaces which according to the learned counsel for 
the veitinner supports th case that the respondent had gol the offending leaflets 
printed and published . So far as P . W . ? is concerned , it is . no doubt, true that 
118 1195 stated in his evidence that the respondent lijmself harl come to the press 
on 20th January , 1967, at about 5 . 30 P . M . long with one Maulvi Malanmad 
Manzoor Alam , the admitted author and writer of the manuscripts [ Ext . 3 and 
3 ( a ) ] and had paid into the hands of the aforesaid Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor 
Alam some money for payment towards the printing charges. The truth of the 
aforesaid statement has heen categorically denied by the respondent who has 
figured as P . W . 8 . The respondent has denied to have even gone # o Madhukar 


chargesMaham 


denieenied 


3 .136 

" HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART 11 
-... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 

-- -- - - 
Press either alone or in the company cî the aforesaid Maulvi Mahammad Min 
zoor Alanı, us alleged , or otherwise . I lc is also dc. ied io lave ever paid any 
thing towards Printing charges of any le . 11 : printed as Madhukur Press , I am . 
however, of the opinion , that the stalement is made by P . W . 2 is not quite con . 
sistent with the circumstances and the probabilitics of the case , and , accordingly , 
I am inclined to accept the denial of the l espondent to the effect that he had 
nothing to do with the printing or publication of the leaflets in question . In the 
first place, it may be mentioned that it is clear from the ovidence of P . W . his 
sell That Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam was an old customer of the press 
and was thus known to the press for long . It also appcars fron his evidence 
that on 18th January , 1967, when Ext. 3 was given for printing , Maulvi Maham 
mad Manzoor Alam had come alone or at least was not accompanied by the res 
pondent. It further appcars from his cvidence that it was Maulvi Mahamad 
Manzoor Alam , who had placed the orders for printing and paid the printing 
charges. It was hc who had given delivery of the leaflets which were in his liand 
and had been signed by him . In the circumstances, there appears to be no good 
reason why Maulvi Izhammad Manzoo : Alem will be accompanied by the 
respondent on the former s second visit to the preşs , at 5 - 30 P . M ., on the 20th 
January , 1967, when according to the evidence of P . W . 2 delivery was to be taken 
of the printed copies of Ext, 3 and orders for printing Ext. 3 ( a ) had to be placed 
It also appears highly improbable that iſ respondent was himscif present, as is 
alleged , on behalf of the petitioner, the signature of Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor 
Alam would have been uitested by Barho Ran and not by the regiondcnt him 
sell. Further on the ovidence of R . W s . 3 . 1 , 5 and 8 taken along with Exts . B , C 
and C / 1 , there can be no doubt that as soon as the respondent and other promi 
nent members of his party came to know about the existence of the offending 
leaflets , they got a pamphlet printed and issued repudiating all counection with 
the leaflets or with its author and warring every one concerned that cnither the 
respondent nor the Congress Party hud connection with the leaflets or had any 
thing to do with Maulvi Mahammad Manzcor Alam . It was stated in the said 
pamphlet of which the manuscript has been proved and marked as Ext. B and 
the printed copies as Exts. C . and C / 1 that some of the parties which were oppos 
ing the Congress in the election had got the leaflets printed and published with 
a view to spread confusion amogst the supporters of the Congress and that neither 
the Congress cendidate nor the Congress Comınittee had any connection whatso 
ever with Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam who was an irresponsible person . 
The fact that a regular repudiation was made of the letaflots in question by and 
on behalf of the respondent, in my opinion , clearly shows that the leaflets in 
question had not been got printed by the respondent or with his consent or 
knowledge. It appears that the repudiation or the contradiction spoken of about 
was issued forthwith , that is , immediately after the respondent had cone to know 
about the cxistence of the offending leaflets . On behall of the petitioner the 
Manager and Publisher of " Ranchi Express " , a Weekly paper published from 
Ranchi has been examined as P . W . 1 . On his evidence the issue dated 12th 
February , 1967, of that paper has been marked is Ext . 1 for the petitioner . On 
the very first page of that issue portions from Exts , 3 and 3 ( a ) is also from 
another leaflet displaying the Congress symbol of two yoked bullocks was pub 
lished . The case of the respondent is that when he and his party men came to 
Icarn about the existence of the offending leaflets from the issue of Ranchi Ex 
press dated 12th February , 1967, which showed the Congress symbol on the face 
of it , it was decied to immediately issue a repudiaton that the Congress Party 
or the Congress candidates had no concern with the leaflets of which the extracts 
had been published by Ranchi Express as aforesaid . This part of the respon 
dent s case is fully supported from the evidence of RW . 3 , 4. U and 3 . Nothing 
has been elicited in their cross - examination which could go to discredit their testi 
mony. The fact that a contradiction or repudiation was issuca is established 
beyond doubt by Exts . B and Exts. C and C / 1 . The contrixdiction was issued 
under the signatures of Ram Narain Prasad , the President of the Mandol Con 
gress Committee, Biridih ( R . W . 4 ) , Raghunandan Ram , M . L . A . ( R . W . 5 ) and the 
respondent himself ( R . W . 8 ) . The issuing of the contradiction and the existence 
thereof, in my opinion , is wholly inconsistent that the respondent having any 
thing to do with the printing or publication of the offending Icaflets . It is also 
note worthy that whereas the total Muslim population of Giridih Subdivision 
as shown in the Cencus Report of 1961 stands at 1, 21, 932, the respondent if he 
was really the person responsible for getting the offending leaflets printed , would 
have got only one thousand copies of Exts . 3 and 3 ( a ) ptinted . On the other 
hand , it appears that five thousand copies of the contradiction ( Ext. B ) were got 
printed for distribution (vide evidence of R . W . 3 and also the endorsement on 
the back of Ext. B ) . The number of valid votes polled by the 4 Parliamentary 
Candidate came to 1, 99 , 083 ; the total population of Giridih Sub - Division being 
according to the aforesaid Cencus Report, 8 , 58 , 239 . Thus, nearly 14 per cent of 


. 


. 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


SEC. 3( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 3437 

- . . -. . - - - - - - - - .. : : - . ..: : : 7 " m - . .. - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
the wicie powinion Würt Vius1 .. 11 11conceivablo iliat only one tirousand 
copies woula have been got printua , li rant )" We responuent was all the wal a or 
11 because one ihousand coples would lietu Dell llis served the requirement of an 
wieclive propaganga, This circul. SLMC3 - S Weil, in Jiy Ophion , litatis uzainst 
the case of the petitione , that the responon fiad got the chiending leaicis print 
ed and pubuskied , Besides the above tücTols ltiere are certain materials in the 
evidence of P . W . 2 himself which 20 LO snow that ine respond had not accom 
purilcd Maulvi Mahammad ivarzoor Alm to the Madhukur Press on 20th of 
Jincialy , 1907, P . W . 2 Das stated that on 2011 January , 96 / , when the second 
manuscript , namely , Ext. 3 ( a ) was given for printing and when according to his 
Evidence , the respondeni was present, there were only four persons including 
himselt ul ine Manager s table , No ! it is crcar II vm Exi. ( a ) ilsell that besides 
Maulvi Mahummad Manzoor Alam , the two persons who dcntiiied his signature 
as also his writing placing orders for printing or the said manuscript must have 
been there, the third man being Maulvi Manan mac Mizuor lilla minisel. If 
there were only four persons inciucing P . W . Zül the Mirager s iable at the time, 
thu yuOS: lon 01 the responuent buing prosent is clearlp ruled out, 11 was, how 
ever, urged on behalf oľ the petitioner that the aforesaid statement Ol P . W . 2 
did by no means show that there only l our persons including himself in the loom 
arid luwas suggested that the respondenu may not have been at ng Manager s 
table , but that did not mean that he was not in the room cither. There is no 
substance in this plea . It is apparent from the evidence of P . W . 2 himself that 
there is only one room in which the Manager as well as he uid their respective 
work . It is unreasonable to suppose that the respondent would no sitting away 
from the anciger s table , if he was al all there , as allcgcd on behalt of the peti 
tioner . On ne aloresaid Staiement 01 P . VY , Z vhich appears to have been made 
in an unguarded inorncrit , it is clear that the presence of the respondent at the 
place and at the time as alleged on behall of the pctitioner is dis proved . On the 
evidence OC P . W . Z no question of having noticed Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor 
Alam taking any money from the respondent for payment to the press appears 
to arise . He has stated that at the time when the second münuscript, namely , 
Ext. 3 ( a ) was handed over for printing , he was called by the Manager to give 
delivery of the printed copies of Exi. 3 . He has further stated that he did not 
stay at the Manager s table after delivery was done. Indeed , he has admitted 
that he was not in a position to state whether the Manager did any writing on 
the scond manuscript or nct . On the aforesaid statement, his evidence that he 
had secn Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam paying Rs. 12 on 20th January , 1907, 
cannot be accepted , and it is difficult in the circumstances to accept his testimony 
that he ever saw any payment being made by Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam 
on 20th January , 1. 967, u s stated by him and thus his having scen Manzoor Alam 
taking any money from the respondent does not arise . It may be noted that the 
best evidence of the alleged payment has been withhold , P . W . 2 has admitted 
that the press maintains counter - foils of cash memos and account of income and 
expenditure . None of these documents were either called for or producent . 
Further , there are certain suspicious circumstances relating to the printing of 
Exts, 3 and 3 ( a ) . Both Exts . 3 and 3 ( a ) appear to be dated 20th January , 1967, 
yet the endorsement in the hand of Maulvi Mahammad Alam recording the order 
for printing one thousand copies of Ext. 3 is dated 18th January , 1967. Even the 
Manager s writing on the back of Ext. 3 ( b ) shows that the manuscript was handed 
over on 191h January , 1967 and the delivery of the one thousand printed copies 
was to be made by 2 P . M . on 20th January , 1967. Curiqusly on Ext. 3 ( a ) though 
endorsement as to the order for printing in the hand of Maulvi Mahammad 
Manzoor Alan is dated 20th January , 1967 , no date at all has been mentioned 
in the writings alleged to be in the hand of the Manager of the press and proved 
as Ext . 3 ( c ) showing either the date on which the order was placed or the date 
on which the delivery was promised . No declaration in regard to any of the 
manuscripts , namely Exts . 3 and 3 ( a ) as required under Section 127 ( A ) of the 
Act has been produced nor there is any evidence to show that any of the identify 
ing witnessess were known to the printer . No copy of the leaflet printed appeara 
to have been sent to the approprlate authority . Yet , another circumstances to 
which reference may be made is that numerous spelling mistakes have been 
found in the manuscript Exts . 3 and 3 ( a ) . Such mistakes it appears were noticed 
by either the correspondent of Ranchi Express or its Printer or publisher. This 
is apparent from the endorsement which has been made in the issue of Ranchi 
Express dated 12th February , 1967 ( Ext. 1 ) to the effect that from the spelling 
mistakes It appears that the manuscripts had been written by some hall educated 
person . Surely. If the respondent was responsible for the leaflets , as is alleged 
on behalf of the petitioner , such mistakes would not have been allowed to 
continue in the manuscripts . Admittedly , the respondont is a qualified medical 
practitioner and is an advanced person . In view of the aforesaid discussion , it 


3438 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 21), 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [Part I ) 

- - . --- - - -- . : . - - - - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - 
must be held that the petitioner has not been able to establish that the respondent 
had anythigh to do with the printing 01 publishing of the leare s. On bchalf 
of the petitioner , however , certain circumstances were relicd upon and it was 
urged that in view of those clreuinstances , it must be held that the jietitionor harl 
got the offending leaflets printed and publislied as alleged . The first circumstances 
may be cusily disposed oi. It was argue that if the leallets in qucstic ), as 
admitted , were in existence , the only person who could be interested in getting 
such leallels proved was the respondent, because of the thirce Muslim candidates 
at the clection , two for the Assembly and the respondent for the Parliament, one 
was a Communist and the other was more or less a durn .ny . In the first place : 
there is no satisfactory evidence on the record to show that Jamaluddin who was 
a candidate from Giridih Assembly Curstituency for election to the Assembly was 
dummy candidate . In the second place , there is no cason to suppose that the 
respondent who was a candidate of the Congress Party , depending for his election 
on Congress support, could have compromised his position by gettin : such leaflets 
as are Annexures A , B , and C to the election petition printed . There is thus 170 
substance in the frst circumstances put forward on behalf of the petitioner. The 
other circunistances on which great stress was laid on behalf of the petitioner Is 
that Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam appears to have been identifed in both 
Exts . 3 and 3 ( a ) by persons who were adınittedly polling agents of the respondent 
The case of the petitioner is that In Ext. 3 Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam was 
identifed by two persons, one of whom was Sheikh Hamid , a polling agent of the 
respondant. Likewisc , of the two persons wito identified him in regard to Ext. 
3 ( a ) , Barho Ram was a polling agent of the respondent. 

13 . In regard to the alleged identification by Barho Ham , one of the polling 
agents of the respondents , on the back of Ext 3 ( a ) , neither P . W . 12 nor P . W . 13 , 
the only two witnessess examined to prove the said writing on the back of 
Ext. 3 ( a ) as being in the hand of Barho Ram , have been able to satisfactorily 
prove the same. P . W . 12 , indeed , admitted that the alleged signature of Barho 
Ram on the back of the Ext . 3 ( a ) and his admiticd signature on Ext. 6 ( a ) , the 
appointment form for polling agents were in the hand of two different persons. 
P . W . 13 it is true, at first identiAed the alleged writings, marked Ext. 5 ( c ) on 
the back of Ext. 3 ( a ) as writings in the hand of Barho Ram , but later in his 
Cross - examination he showed a complete ignorance about the writings Of Barho 
Ram by stating that similar writing on the back of Ext. 3, which according to 
the petitioner was in the hand of Sheikh Hamid , the other polling agent was in 
the hand of Barho Rain . This statement alone , in my opinion , makes P . W . 13 
an incompetent witness to prove the identity of the writings of Barho Ram . It 
18 also true that he has produced from his custody a receipt book which according 
to his evidence contained signatures of Barho Ram . The custody of the receipt 
book with this witness has, however , remained unexplained . According to his 
own statement the cash and account books and other registers relating to the 
affairs of the Multipurpose Cooperative Society at Dumarjore, of which he and 
Barho Ram were the President and the Secretary respectively during the period 
1962 to April 1966 . were still with Barho Ram , but curiously the particular receipt. 
book which he has produced and in which certain signatures of Barho Ram were 
marked as Ext . 3 series continued in his custody . In view of the circumstances as 
also in view oi his statement made in course of his cross -examination , referred 
to above, I am not prepared to place any reliance on this witness . It may also be. 
mentioned that, though according to the petitioner the complicity of the respondent 
in the printing and publication of the offending leaflet was atlcast indirectly 
established by the fact that besides other persons, two of the polling agents of 
the respondent had identified Maulvt Mahammad Manzoor Alam at the press in 
connection with the printing of the leaflets in question , yet no attempt was made 
to get the identity of the signatures on Ext. 6 and 6 ( a ) , the two polling agent 
appointment forms, with the alleged signatures of Sheikh Tamir? and Barho Ram 
on the back of Ext. 3 and 3 ( a ). Tt, muşt , therefore, be held that the netitioner 
has failed to establish that Fxt . 5 ( c ) , as it appeared on the back of Ext, 3 ( 6 ) 
was in the hand of Barlo Ram , one of the poling agent of the respondent. 


14 . In regard to the alleged signature and writing on the back of Ixt. 5 being 
in the hanrl of Sheikh Hamid . reliance was placed on the evidence of P .Ws. 10 
and 19 as corroborater by the eviderce oť P . W . 2 . In my opinion , the evidence 
of P . W . 10 read , as a whole , does not show that he can be said to be acquainted 
with Sheikh Ilamid s handwriting . On his own statement, he had seen Sheikh 
Hamid putting his signature on Ext . 5 at the time when the respondert had 
appointed Sheikh Hamtd as his polling agent. This witness has admitted that he 
had never seen Sheikh Hamid writing anything or putting his signature any 
where belore anrl after the date on which the polling agent appointment form 


: - - - .. . . . 


SEC. 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /AŞADHA 29 , 1890 3.139 

- - -- - - --- - - - - -- - - -- - - - - 
was drawn up . In the circumstances , it is difficult to hold that P . W . 10 van be 
said to be acquainted with the handwriting of Sheikh Hamid so as to make him 
a competent witness to establish the identity of the alleged writing on the back 
of Ext. 3 . P . W . 19 has not spoken a word about Ext. 5 ( b ) , the alleged writing on 
the back of Ext. 3 being in the hand of Sheikh Hamid . He has, no doubt, esta 
blished his competence by proving as many as fourteen signatures of Sheikh 
Hamid in certain registers of Jhaalakdiha Multipurpose Cooperative Scciety of 
which he happened to be the Secretary , But no attempt has been made to 
establish any identity between those signatures and the signature in Ext. 5 ( b ) . 
Learned Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the proved signatures of Sheikh 
Hamid (Ext . 9 series ) were there to enable the Court to compare them with the 
purported signature of Sheikh Hamid on the back of Ext. 3 and he urged that on 
a comparison , it would appear that the signature on the back of Ext. 3 tallied 
with the proved signature ( Ext. 9 series ) . Though it is generally hazardous to 
come to any definite conclusion on the question of identity of writing or signature 
on a rough and ready comparison of the disputed writing with proved ones , I 
have compared the signatures (Ext. 9 series ) with the one contained in Ext. 5 ( b ) 
and appearing on the back of Ext. 3 and , in my opinion , the dissimilarities between 
the two are numerous though it cannot be said that there are no similarities, the 
former , in niy opinion , are more in number than the latter and thus on a visual 
comparison , I am of the opinion , that it cannot be said that they tolly . I have 
already commented above on the failure of the petitioner to get the admitted 
writings of Sheikh Hamid or that of Barho Ram compared with the disputed ones. 
The mere fact that no suggestion was made to any of the petitioner s witnesses 
that the signatures in question were forgeries did not, in my opinion , in the 
circumstances of this case and in view of the fact that the burden lay squarely 
on the petitioner to establish the identity , absolve him from getting the identity 
of the signature or that of the writing compared by an Expert. No help is 
available on this question from the evidence of P . W . 2 either . All that he has 
stated is that he had seen the identiflers of Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam 
once or twice in Giridih and that at Popular Pharmacy , of which the attending 
physician was the respondent. This statement does not imply that Sheikh Hamid 
or Barho Ram , the polling agents of the respondent were , in fact, the persons who 
had identified Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam . In view of what has been 
stated in the leaflet issued by and on behalf of the respondent repudiation all 
connections with Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam either with him or with the 
Congress Party and in view of the contents of the said leaflets ( Exts . B , C and C / 1 ) , 
the chances of getting hold of someone , who was prepared to write or sign as 
Sheikh Hamid or as Bacho Ram cannot be altogether excluded . In the cir 
cumstances and for the reasons, discussed above, I am of the opinion , that the 
Detitioner has miserably failed to establish that the writings of the signatures 
contained in and marked as Exts . 5 (b ) and 5 ( c ) on the back of Exts . 3 and 
respectively were in the hand of Sheikh Hamid and Barho Ram , who were two 
of the polling agents of the respondent. Those writing on the back of Exts . 3 and 

( a ) , therefore , are of no assistance to the petitioner. Further, even if it were 
assumed that Exts . 5 (b ) and 5 ( C ) wer ? , in fact, in the hands of Sheikh Hamid 
and Barho Ham respectively and even it the allegation that the printing and 
publishing of the offending leaflets as got done by the respondent through his 
agert or workers could be said to be implied in the specific allegation made in 
paragrarlı 15 of the election polition to the elect that the respondent had put 
the offnndiry leaficts printed and published , I am satisfied that on the facts of 
this casn they re of little arivaritake to the petitioner . It will he seen that both 
Sheikh H aid ar voll es Bish , mam come to be aprointed as respondent s polling 
agents on 19th February , 1987 ( Vide Exts. 6 and 6 / a ) . The leaflets in question 
( Exits . 3 and 3 / a ) were hansleri OET for printing by Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor 
Alan on the aln und 20th January . 1967 on which dates it has been alleged that 
Vaulvi Mahad ! MonCT , 197, 1999 writer of the manuscripts , was identified 
by Shelkh Hamid And Barho Ram . There is no evidence on the record of Barho 
Ram hav: n Vorked for the resocndent in any other capacity than as a polling 
agert. Obvicusly , he could not be clescribed as a polling agent of the respondent 
before he was so appointed on 19th February , 1967. In regard to Sheikh Hamid . 
however , it appears from the evidence of P . W . 19 that he had seen Sheikh distri 
ruting leghats t h ? akrliha 12 to 13 days before the date of the poll, the poll 
being on 19th February , 1967 ( vide cvidence of P . W . 10 ) . The carliest dates on 
which Sheikh Hamid can be said to have worked for the respondent was the 6th 
tember . 1967 of the value of Rs. 3112 / - for import of copper zinc, tin , lead and 
before that date . It follows that on 18th and 20th January , 1907 nejther Sheikh 
Hamid nor Barho Ram were agents or workers of the responclent, in fact or in 
law . In such circumstances , the respondent cannot be liable for any act or 
c onduct on the part of Shiekh Hamid and Barho Ram . In view of the aforesaid 


3440 " UJE GAZE ITE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART lla 
- --- - - - - - - - . . S . . 

: - - S - -- 
discussion , I have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that there is no 
merit in the direct or in the circumstantial evidence on which reliance was placed 
on behalf of the petitioner for holding that the respondent or his agents and 
workers had got the oifending leaflets printed and published . On the other hand , 
the circumstances and evidence, referred to on behalf of the respondent and 
discussed above. show beyond doubts that the respondent had nothing to do with . 
the printing or publishing of the ollending leaflets . 

15 . The thirci point, as stated in paragraph 6 above, may now be taken up for 
consideration . The factual existence of the leaflet in question ( Ext. 3 ) has not 
been disputed . Indeed , in view of Ext. 1 , the issue of " Ranchi Express " dated 
12th February , 1967, Ext. 2 , a letter from a correspondent or " Ranchi Express " . 
Ext. 2 ( a ) , news report of the correspondent and the several printed copies of the 
Leaflet including Exts . 4 and 4 ( a ) which were either produced by one witness or 
another , examined on behalf of the petitioner or were sent lo " Ranchi Express " 
by its corresponder ! taken in conjunction with the evidence of P . W . 1 and the 
evidence of the issue of the repudiation by and on behalf of the respondent, the 
existence of the leatiot could not be disputed . But in view of what has been 
found above that the respondent had nothing to do with the printinii or publishing 
of the offending leaflets including Ext. 3 , the distribution of the leallet by or un 
behalf of the l espondent or the reading out of its contents by hini or by his 
agents or workers was highly improbable . If the respondent had not donc any . 
thing in bringing the leaflet into existence, it was extremely unlikely that he 
would have taken any part in distributing the same. Apart from this cir 
cumstances , there are various other circumstances which make the case of distribu 
tion of the leaflet in question by and on behalf of the respondent highly improbable . 
The first circumstance to which reference may be made is ne total absence of 
any contemporaneous report of complaint against the alleged distribution of the 
offending leallets or against reading out or explaining their contents at several 
places and on various dates as alleged in the election petition . There is evidence 
on the record that if not the petitioner at least his important workers like 
Thakur Saheb and others had been informed about the distribution of the leallets 
(vide the evidence of P .Ws. 3 , 17, 21 and 25 ) . It is impossible to believe that if.. 
in fact, the distribution as alleged had been done, no information would have 
been received by the petitioner himself . It is not without significance that neither 
the petitioner nor his election agent Prahlad Das Bhasin nor Thakur Saheb , who 
on the evidence on record , has figured as one of the principal workers for the 
petitioner have been examined in support of the case of clistribution etc . It 
cannot be supposed that the petitioner had not gone round the constituency in . 
the capacity of a candidate for election and thus he was indeed a very competent 
witness to speak about the alleged distribution and in support of his case ini 
regard to the same. In any case , the petitioner s election rgent and his important 
worker , namely , Thakur Saheb must have gone round the constituency several 
times and it is rather curious that they have been kept away from the witncss 
box . In the circumstances , it is legitimate to infer that they have been 
deliberately kept away because they were not prepared to support a false casc as 
set up in the election petition . In regard to the distribution etc . cf the offending 
leaflet . Thcir omission to complain to the proper authorities about the alleged 
distribution of the offending leaflets or about the oral appeals etc . alleged to have 
been made on the lines of the contents of the leaflets and their failure to examine 
themselves are very cogent circumstances against the case of distribution . Yet, 
another circumstances is that only one thousand copies of the offending leaflet 
were got printed . The total population of the constituency was nearly 3 lakhs. 
out of which the Muslims were nearly 14 per cent (wide Census Report of 1961) . 
Evidence on the record suggests that there was rather indiscriminate distribution 
in the sense that it was not confined to Muslim voters only . Indeed not one 
Muslim voter has been examined for the petitioner and no printed ccpies of 
leaflets have been produced from the custody of any Muslim voter. The election 
petition itself shows that nearly 2 lakhs had polled at the election . It is obvious 
that mere one thousand copies would never have sufficed for even a limited distri 
bution amongst the electorate, and thus the very number of the printed copies of 
the leaflet militates against the case of distribution as alleged . It rather suggests 
a mere mischief value as the motive for the printing of the leaflet . It is not 
without signiflcalice that as many as five thousand copies of Ext. B - the notice 
repudiating all connection of the Congree candidate or the Congress Party with 
Maulvi Mahaminad Manzoor Alam or with the leaflets issued in his name, had 
been got printed by the respondent and his party men . It is manifest that if 
the purpose for getting the offending leaflet printed was to use it in the election 
campaign of the respondent and for the furtherənce of his election , it is inconceiv 
able that he would have got only one thousand coples thereof printed . Another 


- . - . 


". . — 


. 


- - 


. . - - 


- 


: 


: 


" 


- 


- 


- 


- - : - - 


. - 


- - 


. - : - 


Sec . 3 ( ii)! THE GAZET IT. OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADIJA 29 , : 0 

3441 
- - : - - - - - - - - -- - = = 
cirrumstances to which relerence may be made arises from the fact that though 
the respondert was a Muslim , all his riinning mates were non -Muslim . It is we. .. 
known that Parliamentary candidates , by and largc , campaign along with the 
candidates of thcir party tor election to the Assembly ; their symbols are the same 
and polling is held simultaneously . In the circumstances placed as the respondent 
was , it was extremely unlikely that he would be a party to a campaign in which 
# Icallct with a communal bias and approach would be distributed . Any such 
activity on his part was bound to antagonise his running inales and thus damage 
his own interest . To the above circumstances , the following may be adried . The 
respondent, it is evident on the evidence , is by profession a doctor , having his 
patients in all communities , Musllins and non -Muslims. He was fighting the 
election on the Congress ticket. The Congress is a party professes a non -commu 
nal approach . Keeping these facts in mind , it appears to me that the distribution 
of the oftending leaflet by and on behalf of the respondent was not only bound to 
tarrish the image of the Congress whom he represented it was further bound to 
hurt the fcelings of at least his non -Muslim patients . Thus the distribution of 
the leaflet was a conduct on his part against his own interest which cannot be 
rcadily supposed . I am clearly of the opinion that the circumstances enumerated 
above make the case of distribution ctc . as set up in the election petition by and 
on behalf of the respondent highly inprobable . The evidence adduced by the 
petitioner in support of this part of the case must be considered in the light of 
the circumstances discussed above. 

16 . On the particulars mentioned in paragraph 19 of the election petition and 
on those mentioned in the amplification petition , it appears that the case of the 
petitioner is that out of the meetings held at eleven places within the constituency 
on different dates, the respondent was present and took part in distributing the 
leallets and in explaining their contents and in making oral appeals on their 
lines at seven of those meetings , namely at Satcawan on the 12th February , 1967, 
at Barhc and Dumal on the 13th February , 1967, at Dhanwar on the 141h February , 
1967, at Jamua on the 16th February , 1967 and at Giridih and Pachamba on the 
18th February , 1967. No evidence has been adduced in regard to the alleged 
mectings at Barho and Pachamiga . No cvidence about the distribution of the 
offending lenfiet ( Ext. 3 ) at Satgawan has been adduced . Neither P . W . 11 nor 
P . W . had seen Exts . 4 and 41a ) , two of the printed copies of Ext. 3 . They do 
not speak about any distribution at Satgawan . Whatever distribution of which 
he had spoken of was at Basodih , a place not mentioned in the election petition , 
In regard to Dumri the witnesses are P .Ws. 3 and 23 . P . W . 3 , no doubt speaks 
about the distribution of Ext. 4 , the printed copy of Ext. 3 , but he does not speak 
about any distributlon by the respondent. He speaks only about the distribution 
by Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam , a fact which does not and inention in the 
particulars given in paragraph 19 of the election petition . It miy be noted that 
P . W . 3 does not speak of any oral appeal on the ground of religion whether by 
respondent or by Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor Alam . P . W . 21 speaks of distribu 
tion at Bermo turning by the respondent and to that extent he contradicts 
P . W . 3 . This witness speaks of a leaflet in the nature of a notice for holding the 
meeting itself and according to him , none of the local Congress leaders were 
present at the meeting. He also does not speak of any oral aprcal. Neither of 
these two witnesses have produced any leaflct though they claimed to have been 
present at the meeting where the leaſlet was distributed . Their evidence , on the 
whole . does not inspire confidence and I ain not prepared to hold on thelr evidence 
that there was any distribution at Dumrl as alleged . In regard to distribution at 
Dhanwar , the only witness examined is P . W . 17 . From the description which he 
has given of the respondent ( R . W . A ) , I am convinced that this witness was not 
present at the alleged meeting. It is true that he had produced Ext . 1 / 1 
(inaterial exhibit ) which is a printed copy of the leaflet . But I am not prepared 
to hold that on that ground alone the case of distribution as stated by him at 
Dhanwar must be accepted . The fact that some of the witnesses examined on 
behalf of the petitioner have produced the printed copies of the leaflet does not, 
in my opinion , necessarily lead to the conclusion that the distribution as alleged 
in the election petition was true. I have alrcady held above that the existence of 
the leaflet cannot be disputed . It may be that the person who was responsible 
for bringing the leaflet into existence had distrbuted its printed copies at certain 
places. In the circumstances , the fact that printed copies of the lealet in question 
have been produced by some of the witnesses examined on behalf of the petitioner , 
can be of no advantage to him . The distribution at Dhanwar , accordingly , cannot 
be said to have been established . In regard to the distributionat Jamua , 
the witnesses are P .Ws. 16 and 22. It was urged on behalf of the petitioner that 
evidence of P . W . 16 should be accepted because he has produced a printed copy 
of the leaflet , (Material Ext. I ) as he could not have got the same without the 


3.1 . 2 THE GVETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ASADHA 29 , 1890 [ PART IJ 

- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - 
alleged distribution . I have already pointed out above that this argument is not 
tenable . This witness is a Mukhia . It is curious that though he claims to have 
informed P .Ws. 24 and 25 , he did not inform the authorities about the distribution 
witnessed by him . In the circumstances , P . W . 16 and P . W . 22 have not spoken 
about any meeting at Jamua . His evidence is to the effect that the place where the 
meeting was held falls in village Khurd Magha, but there is no allegation in 
election petitiori about any meeting at Khurd Magha. The distribution at Jamua , 
therefore , must also be discredited . In regard to the alleged distribution at 
Giridih , the relevant witnesses are P .WS 7 , 10 and 18 ; P .Ws. 7 and 18 have spoken 
about a meeting, where distribution was made at Giridih Chowk while P . W . 10 
has spoken about a similar meeting at Karbala Road , P . W . 7 was cross - examined 
about the contents of Ext . 3 . His answers show that he had no idea about the 
contents and that he had never read the same or received it. The only ground on 
which it was urged on behalf of the petitioner that his evidence should be accepted 
was that he had produced a printed copy of the leaflet . That ground as indicated 
already cannot be urged on the facts of this case as necessarily indicating distribu 
tion on the part of the respondent or his men . P . W . 10 , a worker of the Jankranti 
Dal has been contradicted by P . W . 11 in regard to whether there was an open 
space on Karbala Road or not. According P . W . 10 there was an open space on 
the Karbala Road where the alleged meeting was held while according to P . W . 11, 
there was no such open space . P . W . 10 has not stated as to who was distributing 
the leaflet. It may also be pointed out that even though he was an active 
worker of Jankranti Dal, he did not report or complain against distribution to 
any local authority . Likewise, P . W . 18 has also admitted that he did not report 
about the distribution to any of the Communist candidate nor to anyone nor did he 
inform the Governmental authorities . The matter in which the distribution was 
made as depoyed to by P . W . 18 is rather unconvincing. I am inclined to accept 
the evidence of R . W . 2 to the effect that the respondent was absent on 18th Febru 
ary , 1967, the date on which the meeting at Giridih was alleged to have taken 
place, from Giridih . According to his evidence , respondent had left Pachamba on 
18th February , 1967 at 7 A M . in his company and had come back at 11 P . M . 
tri the night. The places which they visited together were Jamua , Nahurladih 
Ghatro and Parsabad . Nothing appears to have been elicited in his cross -examina 
tion to discredit his testimony . His personal diary which he produced the names 
of the several places which they visited on 18th February , 1967. He has been 
corroborated in this respect by R . W . 8 . In regard to the distribution at Giridih , 
It was rightly pointed out on behalf of the respondent that full particulars like 
a meeting having been held at Karbala Road where Maulvi Mahammad Manzoor 
Alam had made an oral appeal or like distribution having taken place at Giridih 
Chowk have not been mentioned in the election petition . Strictly speaking the 
petitioner could not be heard to say that any such meetings were held either at 
Karbala Road or at Chowk Giridih . In the circumstances, there is no force in 
this contention that in order to meet the petitioner s case the respondent should 
have examined witnesses of Giridih Chowk and Karbala Road Giridih . On the 
other hand , if the petitioner had given the necessary particulars , the respondent 
could have examined witnesses and given facts on the record to show that there 
was no distribution at those places at all The evidence as to aistribution etc . 
at Giridih alleged is , therefore , not at all satisfactory . Now as to places where 
the election agent of the respondent is alleged to have distrlbuted the leaflet and 
made oral speec res . Such places are four in cumber, namely , at Bengabad on 
the 4th February , 1967, at Chaphuarl on the 5th February, 1967, at Jhalakatha 
on the 6th February , 1967 and at Maheshmunda on the 12th February , 1967 . In 
regard to the case of distribution at Bengabad and at Chaphuarl, the witnesses 
are P .Ws. 5 and 6 and P . W . 15 . It appears from the cvidence of P . W . 5 that he 
has no independent recollection of the size and contents of the leaflet alleged to 
have been distributed at Bongabad on the 4th February , 1967. He does not also 
say as to why he was at Bengabad on that day. P . W . 6 no doubt, is Ę res jent 
of Bengabad , but his evidence , read as a whole , does not show the reason as to 
how he was able to recognize Mohiuddin Ahmad , the election agent of the 
respondeut. According to P . W . 15 , the meeting was held in village Murhari and 
not in Chaphudih . Indeed , the case of distribution of these two places was not 
pressed on behalf of the petitioner . In regard to distributors etc ., at Jhhalaldiha 
the witnesses are P .Ws. 19 and 24 , P . W . 19 claims to have got a lcaflet distributed 
by Mohiuddin Ahmad at Jhhalakdiha . It however, appears that he never informed 
anybody about having seen Mohluddin Ahmad distributing the leaflet and about 
his having received any such Icaflet. It is curious how he was examined on behalf 
of the petitioner in support of the case of distribution etc . at Jhhalakdiha . I am 
not prepared to place any reliance on lis evidence. P . W . 24 has made certain 
statements in his evidence which clearly show that he has no regard for truth . 
This witness has stated that he was aged 35 years at the time of his deposition . 


" SEC. 9 (11)] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 3.143 

-- ... - 

- * 
He claimed that he was a teacher in 1946 -47 It follows, therefore , that he was 
aged only about 13 or 14 years in 1946 -47. He has further claimed to have read 
upto the Matric standard at Mkatpur H . E School, Giridih which school he 
claims to have left ten years before he went to join Kusumbha Adimjati Sewa 
Mandal Middle School. In other words, he had read upto the Matric standard by 
the year 1936 then upon his own statement, that he was only 35 years of age, he 
would be only 3 to 4 years of age . Further he has admitted that he was cultivating 
land at Lataki at his father -in -law have. Lataki is in Jamua P . S . and Jhalakdiha 
1 $ in Bengabad P . S . At one place in his evidence he claimed to have gone 
to Jhalakdiha in June , 1965 and he stayed there for 11 years. He, however , admits 
that he was doing cultivation work before he went to Jhalaksiha and was doing 
cultivation work even after he left Jhalakdiha . It appears from his evidence that 
he was at Jhalakdiha at election time as he was coaching some students in village 
Jhalakdiha privately appears to have been made only with a view to make 
himself competent to speak about the alleged distribution by Mohiuddiri at 
Jhalakdiha. No reliance can be placed on P . W . 24. In regard to distribution etc., 
at Maheshmunda on the 12th February , 1967, the relevant witnesses are P .Ws. 4 , 
and 20 . P . W . 4 gave rather an unacceptable size of the leaflet in question and 
the substance which he gave about the contents of the leaflet do not also tally 
with them . P . W 20 has admitted that he had never seen Mohiuddin Ahmad 
before . It was dificult for him to identify him . He further admits that he had 
talked to no one about his having attended the distribution at Maheshmunda ? 
He has been considerably shaken in his cross - examination particular y in regard 
to his statement about the existence of houses of Muslims in front of the Mill of 
Musan Ram . His evidence does not Inspire confidence at all. It follows that in 
support of the case of the distribution of the leaflet or in support of the case of 
holding any meetings at different places and on different dates , as alleged in the 
election petition and wherein the leaflet is alleged to have been read out and 
explained and wherein oral appeals were made on the lines of the contents of the 
leaflet, there is no satisfactory evidence . The evidence as adduced on behalf of 
the petitioner is wholly inconsistent with the circumstances referred to and 
discussed above. On the other hand , the evidence adduced on behalf of the 
respondent denying the truth of the distribution etc , appears to be consistent with 
the probabilities of the case, and , is , therefore , acceptable . It follows that it 
must be held that the petitioner has failed to establish his case as made out in 
the election petition in regard to distribution etc. of the leaflet in question . This 
point as well as accordingly decided against the petitioner . 


the best also 
ans and the 


17. There is practically no evidence in support of the petitioners case that 
oral appeal were made at any place and on any date, either by the respondent or 
by his election agent or his workers on the lines of the offending leaflet, as alleged 
in the election petition . This part of the petitioner s case must also be rejected . 
There is also no evidence in support of the petitioner s case that any false statement 
was made at any time by the respondent, his agent and workers against the 
personal character and conduct of the other candidates . This part of the petitioner s 
case must also fail. Indeed , learned ( ollisel for the petitioner did not address 
any argument ir respect of either oral appcals or making of any false statement 
against the personal character and conduct of any candidate . 


18 . It followe, from what has been discussed above that issue No. 14 must be 
decide ] agginst the petitioner and it must be leki that it has nut b901 established 
that the respondent or his electiori agent and workers with the consent of the 
respondent or his election agent la committed y corrupt practice as alleged 
in paragraphs 9 to 26 of the election petition . On the findings , the question of the 
result of the election having been matcrlally affected , therefore , cloes not arise 


19 . In the result, the petition is dismissed with costs . Ylearing fee is addressed 
at Rs. 1000 ! -. 

Sd. / - S . B . N . SIXHA, 
PATNA HIGH COURT, 
The 15th of May, 1968. 

[No. 82 / BR - 24 / 67 . ] 


34.17 


" HE GAZETTF. OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 

- = ::. - — 
ORDERS 


[PART II -- 
-- : - - : -- - - 


New Delhi, the 1st July 1968 


S . O . 2548 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Dhạnanjoy 
Prasad Sinha of Mohalla Darsan Nagar, P . O . Chapra, District Saran (Bihar ). a 
contesting candidate for election to the House of the People from Maharajganj 
constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner 
required by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made there 
under ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate. 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good rcason or justif 
cation for the failure. 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Dhananjoy Prasad Sinha to be disqualified 
for being chosen as, and for being , it meinber of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Asseinbly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
vears from the date of this order . 

[No. BR -HP / 7 / 67 (39 ). ] 


New Delhi, the 5th July 1968 
S . O . 2549 .- - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Rameshwar 
Prasad Vermil, Assistant, Bhagalpur University , Bhagalpur - 7 ( Bihar ) a contest 
ing candidate for election to the House of the People from Jamui constituency , 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas the said candidato , even after the due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failurc; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election : 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Rameshwar Prasad Verma to he 
disqualified for being chosen as , and for being a member of cither House of 
Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this order 

[No, BR -HP / 80 / 67( 41) .] 

By Order, 
A . N . SEN , Secy . 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 4th July 1968 


S . O . 2650 . – Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Irim Marhya 
Malaji, At Vasa , Post Talasari, Via Dahanu Road , Distt . Thana (Maharashtra ) 
a contesting candidate for election to the Fouse of the People from Dahanu consti 
tuency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure ; . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Irim Marhya Malaji to be disqualifled for 
being chosen as , and for being, a member of either house of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this Order . 


[No. MT-HP / 10 / 67. ) 

By Order, 
K S . RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


Sec . $ ( * )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / AŞADHA 20 , 1890 


3445 


TV 


. - . - 


. 


- 


. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 
$ .O . 2551.-- Under Rule 3 of the Manipur Employees (Revision of pay ) Rules , 
1966, Order the President is pleased that the Government servants , working under 
the Government of Manipur, who opted for the retention of pre- revised scale of 
pay until they vacate their posts or cease to draw pay in that scale under Rule 8 . 
of the Manipur Employees ( Revision of Pay Rules ) 1966 may be allowed to give 
fresh option . The revised option shall be exercisable within a period of 30 
days from the date of publication of this notification in the official gazette . 

[ No. 1/ 69 /67- HMT. ] 
R . C . JAIN , Dy. Secy . 


3416 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Afairs ) 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 
S .O . 2552. - Stalement coi to . Alfairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 5th July , 1958 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs, 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 


, 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


20 ,59,74, 700 

2 ,90 ,000 
3 , 35 ,000 


Reserve Fund 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 , 00, 00 , 000 Notes . . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . . . 
80 ,00 , 00 ,000 Small Coin . . . . . 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
143 : 0 ,00, 000 (a ) Internal . . . . 

(6) External . , 

(c ) Government Treasury Bills . 
33, 50, 00 ,000 Balances Held Abroad . . . 

Investments . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


National Agricultural Credit ( Long Terin Operalions) Funi , 


. 
. 


Naticnal Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 


, 


, 


. 


. 


. 


150 , 71, 09 000 
105,55, 27 ,000 
298 ,54 ,70 ,000 


. 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . 


55 ,00,00, 000 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
29, 36, 35 , 000 


Deposits : 


Lous and Advances 10 : 

(1) Central Government . . 

(* ) State Governments @ . 
Loans and Advances 10 : 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Bandst 
( ) State Co - operative Bankst . 
(i ) Others . . . 


(a ) Government 

Central Government , 
( H ) State Governments . 


. 
. 
. 


97 , 19 . 13 ,-00 
145 ,37 .95 ,000 

3,33,40,000 


[PARTII 


, 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


55,22:56,003 
14 . 30, 59 .000 


. 


. 


Sec.3(1)] 


, 
. 
. 


31 ,69,16, 000 
16 , 39215 ,000 


( b ) Banks 

(0) Scheduled Commercial Banks , , 
( ) Scheduled State Co - operative Banks 
( 17 ) Non -Schedulet State Co - operative Banks 

(1 ) Other Banks . . . . 
(C ) Others 
Bills Payable . . 


Loans, Adpances and Investments from Nations) 

Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fiu - - 
(a) Loans and Advances to : 
State Governments 

. . . . 
139,51,41, 000 (# ) State Co - operative Banks . . . . 
7 ,68 ,84,000 ( ) Central Land Mortgage Banks . . . . 
1, 16 ,34 ,000 6 ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Crealit 
18 ,75 ,000 ( Stabilisation ) Fund 
388 , 90 , 75 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Bauks . 
26 ,67,26 ,000 Loans and Advances and Investments from National 

Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Funda 
26 ,23 ,10, 000 ( ) Loans and Advances to the Development Banks 

(5 ) Investments in bonds debentures issued by the 

Development Bank . . . . . . 


8 ,00 ,02,000 
6 , 11 , 20 , 000 


Other Liabilities 


6 ,08,92, 000 


Deks 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


Other Assets 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
Rupees 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 

. 


. 
: 


56 ,86 , 97 ,000 
975 ,85,60 ,000 


Rupees 


. 


. 


975,89,60,000 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


* Includes Cash Fixed Deposits and Short -term Securities. 


* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term 

(Long Term Operations) Fund . 


Operations ) Fund , and the National ladustrial Credit 


Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund , but including lemporary Overdrafts to State 

Goverurents . 


Inchides Rs. 81, 14 ,01,000 advanced to scheduled Commerical Banks against usance bills under yt 20 17 ( 4 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 


itsalu ling Lolas ini Alvincesfron the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operatio : s ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit ( Stabill 

sation ) Fund , 


Datel the roth day of July , 1968, 


3447 


An Account porsuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 for the week ended the 5th day of July, 1968 

I DRUITHENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs . 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


RS 


Rs . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


20 ,59, 74 ,000 


Notes beld in the Baoding Department 
Noxes in circulation 

Tool Notes issued 


Gold Coin and Bullion 

(a ) Held in India . 
(6 ) Held outside Iodig 


1 15, 89,25 ,000 


3332,73 ,76 ,000 


2064200 ,000 


3353, 33 ,50, 000 
Foreign Searrities 

TOTAL 
kupee Coto 
Gore .Iment or Iodi Rupee Securt 
Loremal 3:118 of Buchvit ant 

other commercial paper 
3353, 33 ,50, 000 

TOTAL ASSETS 


322,31 25 , 000 

72 ,97 , 57 ,000 
2958,04,68 , 000 


TOTAL 


LIABILITIS 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


3353 ,33 ,50 , 000 


Dated the roth day of July . 1968 . 


L . K . JHA, 

Gov mor , 
(NO. F .3 3)-BC /68 .1 


CORRIGENDUM 


" In the Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , Banking Depart 
ment as on the 7th June, 1968 published in the Gazette of India dated 22nd June 
1968 at Part II - Section 3 ( ii) on pages 3050 - 3051, the figure of Rs. 155 .03 ,49, 000 
appearing in the foot -note reading Includes Rs. 155 ,03 ,49,000 advanced to 
scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under section 17 ( 4 ) ( c ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, on page 3051 should be read as Rs. 101,03, 49, 000 " . 


(PARTII 


Sec . 3 ( ii )) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 34.19 
- - - = - _ . - =- = - = . . = : - . - . - - --- - - - - - - - - -- -- = . . = - - - - - - 

* .. 
New Delhi, the 11th July 1964 
S . O . 255. .- -- In cxerrisc of the movers conferred by section 53 of the Eszl ! king 
Regulation Act . 16-19 ( 10 of 1979 ) . 4 : Central Government, on the recomienda 
tion of the Reserve Bank 02 odia , herely declares that the provisions of section 
9 of the oil Aot shall not apply to the New Bank oi India Sutcl., New Delhi, in 
respect of two immovable propertics ( consisting of 102 mnoasurin2 2200 square 
yards at Sultanwind Gate ind 8710 .34 square yards ai Majitha Road ) held by 
it in Amritsar. till the 18th July 1969 

[No. F . 15 ( 20 ) -BC / 68 . ] 


So. 2554 . - Ir. pursuance of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) Gif Section 21 of 
the State Bank of India Act , 1955 ( 23 of 1855 ) , the Central Government, in con 
sultation with the Reserve Bank of Todia , hereby renominates Shri Jehangir R . J . 
Caria . Managing Director. Camn Motors (Private ) Ltd , Ahmedabad to be a 
member of the Ahmedabad Local Board of the State Bank of India with effect 
from the 1st July , 1968 . 

INO. F . 8 / 100 /68 -SB . ] 


S . O . 2555.- -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
" Regulation Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of Indla , hereby declares that the provisions of sub 
clauses (i ) and (ii) of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the said Act 
shall not apply to the Frontier Bank Ltd ., New Delhi, till the 6th June 1969 Or 
till the date of its conversion into a non banking company / winding up of its 
affairs , whichever is earlier . in so far as the said provisions prohibit its Chief 
Executive Oficer from being the Managing Director of the Gola Private Lid . 

No. F .15 (14 ) - BC / 68 ] 
C . F . CIIEREATH , Under Secy . 

------ - - - 


- - . - - . - . 


. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE HYDERABAD DECCAN , 

ANDHRA PRADESH 


CENTRAL EXCISE 


Hyderului, the 27th May 11BB 
S . O . 2556 .. . In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 5 of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, I hereby authorise officers of and above the rank of Assistant 
Collectors of Central Excise to exercise the powers of Collector under sub - rule ( 1 ) 
of rule 524 of the Central Excisc , Rules, 1944. within their respective jurisdiction 
and in relation to assessees governed by Chapter VIIA to the said rules . 

[No. 1 / 68 . ] 


S . O . 2557. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 5 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 , I hereby authorise officers of and above the rank of Assistant 
Collector of Central Excise to exercise the powers of Collectors under Rule 53 read 
with rule 173 G ( 4 ) of the said rules within their respective jurisdiction and in 
relation to assessees governed by Chapter VIIA to the said rules . 

[No. 2 / 68. ] 


Hyderabad , the 13th June 1968 


So. 2558 .-- For the existing Agures in Cols , 5 and 6 of the Schedule to notifica 
tion No . 8 / 07 the Agures 12 ares and 60 kgs may be substituted against all the 
. Items from 1 to 41 . 


[ Amendment No. 1 / 68 to Notification No. 8 / 67. ] 


M . L . ROUTH , Collector 


3450 

IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ASADHA 29 , 1990 (PART II 
S . - = = - - - - - - - - - - - - . .. . - = - - = = - - - - - - = = - — - : 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
(Obce of the Jt. Chief Corretroller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Arca ) 

ORDERS 

Neu Delhi, the 11th June 1968 
S . C . 2559. - A licence No. P / SS / 1607539 / C dated 15th September, 1967 of the 
value of Rs. 819 / - for import of Copper , Zinc ele and a Release Order No. 1.85 for 
Rs. 166 / - for Copper were issued to M / s . Plansa Engg . Works , Moongatall Mandi, 
Ludhiana subject to the condition as incorporated under Pura 89 ( 1) of the Hand 
Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968. 

2 . Thereafter show causo notice Nos. 309 / 04 , ENF / CLA / 1310, dated 13 - 5 - 1968 and 
309 /64 / ENF / CLA , 1183 , dated 9 - 5 - 1968 were issued asking them to show cause 
within 15 days as to wily the said licence and Release Order in their favour 
should not be cancelled on the ground that tilla Central Government is salisiled 
that the licelice will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in 
terms of Clause 9 , sub - clauso ( cc ) of the Imports (Control ) Ordor , 1955 . 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show cause notices, M / s . Hansa Engg. Works, 
Moongatali Mandi, Ludhiana had furnished no explanation as ihe Rogd , cover con 
taining the said show cause notices came back undelivered from the Postal 
Authorities with the remarks " Firm Closed " . 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the proceding paragraph , the 
undersigned in satisiled that the licence and Helease Order in question should be 
cancelled or otherwise rendered inellective T hercťore, the undersigned , in 
exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9 sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955 hereby cancel the licenco No P / SS / 1607539 / C dated 15th 
September , 1967 for Rs. 819 / - and Release Order No . 185 issued in favour of 
M / s . ltansa Erge . Works, Moongatali Mandi, Ludhiana . 

NO. F . 309 / 64 / ENF / CLA / 1192. 1 


То 


M / s . Hansa Engg . Works, 
Moongafali Mandi, Ludhiana . 

New Delhi, the 12t )). June 1968 
S . O . 2560. - A licence No . P / SS / 1607 743 / C / XX / 24./ CD / 23 - 24 dated 22nd Sop 
tember , 1967 of the vaue of Rs. 3112 / - for import of copper , zinc, tin , lead and 
nickel was issued to M / s . Benjsons Industries . Ahata Surendra Transport, Lower 
Bazar , Kalka subject to the condition that all items of goods imported under it 
shall be used only in the licence holder s factory at the address shown in the 
Application against which the licence issued and no portion thereot shall be sold 
to any other party or utilized or permitted to be used in any other manner, 

2 . Thereafter, a show cause notice No. B - 15 / 67 / ENF / CLA / 1322dated 7th 
May , 1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the 
said licence in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the 
Central Govt. is satisfied that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it 
has been granted in terms of Clause 9 , sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control) 
Order , 1955 . 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show cause notice M / s . Benisons Industries, 
Ahata Surendra Transport , Lower Bazar , Kalka furnished no explanation . 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licenco in qucstion should be cancelled or other 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore , the undersigned in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub -clause ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No . P / SS / 1607743 / X / XX / 24 /CD / 23 : 24 dated 22nd Sep 
teinber 1967 for Rs. 3112 / - issued in favour of M / s . Benisons Industries, Ahata 
Surindra Transport. Lower Bazar Kalka (Haryana ). 

[No. B - 15 / 67 /ENF / CLA / 2168 . ] 


TO 


M / s. Bensions Industries, Ahata Surindra Transport , Lower Bazar , Kalka 
(Haryana ) . 

New Delhi, the 18th June 1968 
S . O . 2561, - A licence No. P /SS / 1607313 / C / XX / 25 / CD , 23- 24 dated 7th Septem 
he. 1957 of the value of Rs. 2273 / - for import of copper , zinc, tin and lead was 
logued to M / S . C . M . P . Manfarturing Co ., Tanda Road . Jullundur City subject to 
the condition as under : - - - 
" This licence is issued subject to the condition that all itens of goods 

imported under It shall be used only in the licence holder s factory ; 


SEC. 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3451 


at the address shown in the application against which the licence is 
Issued or may be processed in the factory of another manufacturing 
unit but no portion thereof shall be sold to any other party or utilized 
cr permitted to be used in any other manner. The goods so processed 
in another factory shall, however , be utilised in the manufacturing 
processes undertaken by the licencee . The licencee shall maintain 
a proper account of consumption and utilization of the goods imported 
against the licence ." 


2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No. C -4 / 67 / ENF / CLA / 648 dated 27th 
April , 1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the 
said licence in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central 
Government is satisfied that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it 
was granted in terms of Clause 9 . sub - clause (cc ). 

3 . In responce to the aforesaid show cause notice, M / S . C . M . P . Manufactur 
ing Co ., Tanda Road , Jullundur furnished no explanation as the Regd . Cover con 
taining the notice came back undelivered from the postal authorities with the 
remarks Refused , 


4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the 
urtersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other 
Wise rendered ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No . P / SS / 1607313 / C / XX / 25 / CD / 23 - 24 dated 7th 
September, 1967 for Rs. 2273 / - issued in favour of M / s . C . M . P . Manufacture Co ., 
Tanda Road . Jullundur City . 


[No C -4 /67 /ENF ! CLA / 2429 . ] 


To 


M / S . C . M . P . Manufacturing Co. 
Tanda Road , Jullundur City . 


J. S . BEDI, 
Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports , 


(Office of the Chie ? Dentroller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 24th June 1968 , 
SUBJECT . — Issue of duplicate copy of licence No. P / AU / 1245123 / T / EG / 22 / C / H / 

19 .20. dated 4th November 1965 - Order for Cancellation of original 

licence. 
8 . 0 , 2562. - " M / s . Sree Saraswaty Press Ltd ., 32 , Prafulla Chandra Road , 
Calcutta - 9, who were granted an import licence No. P / AU / 1245123 / T / EG / 22 / C / 
H / 19. 20 , ated 4th November 1965, have applied for a duplicate of the licence on 
the ground that the original licence has been misplaced . It is further stated that 
both the copies of the licence and the letter of authority were made over to 
M / s. Manubhal Sons and Co ., 16 , Old Customs House Road, Bombay , for effecting 
the import of goods. It were registered with the Custom House , Calcutta and 
utilised fully . The Exchange Purposes copy was however partly utilised for 
Rs. 1 , 00 , 000 / - (one lakh ) only . The amount for which the licence was originally 
issued was Rs. 3 , 95 , 259/ - (Rs, 6 , 22,533. 12 post - devaluation ) . The duplicate copy 
of exchange control is now required by them to remit the balance of Rs. 5 , 22,533 . 12 
palsa . 

In support of this contention , the applicant has filed an affidavit dated the 
Sth April 1988 and sworn before the Magistrate 1st Class , Seldah , Calcutta . I 
am gatisfied that the original licence No. P / AU / 1245123 / T / EG / 22 / C / H / 19 . 20 dated 
4th November 1965 has been lost and / or misplaced and direct that a duplicate 
licence should be issued to the applicant. The original Licence is cancelled " . 

[ NO, S - 80 /67- V / 64 -65 /NPCIA ) 

S . A . SESHAN , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


3452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


[PART II 


- 


V 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 
$ . O . 2503. — M / S. PERDERSHAN TRADERS, Mool Raf Building , P . O . Yousaf 
Sarai, New Delhi- 16 . were granted an import licence No . P /NA / AD / 2019362 / C / 
XX / 25 / C / H / 21- 22 /NQQ dated 27th April 1967 for Rs. 25 , 112 (Rupees Twenty -Five 
Thousand One Hundred and Twelve only ) , for the import of certain items of the 
all - category items as per list attached thereto , under the National Defence Remit 
tance Scheme. They have now represented to this office that they have lost /mis 
placed the Original Customs purposes copy of the licence and have applied for 
the issue of a duplicate copy in lieu thereof. They have further stated that the 
original Custom purposes copy of the licence has not been registered with any 
Customs Authorities and utilised at all. The duplicate custom purposes copy of 
the licence now required by the Arm is for the full value of the licence viz . 
Rs. 25, 112 / 

2 . In support of this contention , the licensee has Aled an affidavit. I am accord 
ingly satisfied that the Original Customs Copy of the said licence has been lost . 
Therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred under cl. 9 ( CC ) of the Imports 
( Control) Order , 1955 cated 7th December 1955 ( as amended ) , the original Customs 
Purposes copy of the licence No . P /NA / AD / 2019362 / C / XX / 25 / C / H / 21-22 / : QQ 
dated 27th April, 1967 issued to M / s . Perdershan Traders, Moolraj Building , Yousaf 
Sarai, New Delhi- 16 , is hereby cancelled . 

3 . A duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said licence is being issued to 
the licensee separately . 

[No. NDRS / P -576 / 65-66 / 259 .) 
M / s . Perdershan Traders . 

Moolraj Bujlding , P . O . Yousaf Sarai, 
New Delhi- 18 . 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
S .O . 2584 .- - M / s . The Tata Hydro- Electric Power Supply Co . Ltd ., The Andhra 
Valley Power Supply Co . Ltd ., The Tata Power Co. Ltd ., Bombay were granted 
an import licence No. P / HP / 2076805 / Cash / 21 / C / H /21 / CG . IV dated 6th April 
1966 for Rs. 1, 25 ,000 / - ( Rupees One Lakh and Twenty Five Thousand only ) . 
They have applied for the issue of a duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said 
licence on the ground that the original Customs Purposes copy has been mis 
placed . It is further stated that the original Customs Purpose copy was registered 
with the Customs authorities at Bombay and utilised partly . It was utilised for 
Rs. 1,00 ,380 / - and the balance available on it was Rs. 24 ,620 / 

2 . In support of this contention , the applicant has Aled an affidavit. I am 
accordingly satisfied that the original Customs Purposes copy of the said licence 
has been lost. Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub - clause 
9 ( cc ) of the Imports ( Control ) Order 1955 dated 7th December 1955 as arrend 
ed , the said original Customs Purposes copy of Licence No. P /HP / 2076805 / Cash / 
21 / C / H / 21 / CG . IV dated 6th April 1966 issued to M / s . Tata Hydro- Electric Power 
Supply Co. Ltd., etc ., Bombay is hereby cancelled , 

3 . A duplicate Customs Purposes copy of the said licence is being issued 
separately to the licencee. 

[No. HEP / T - 18 / 65 -66 /CG . IV / 588. I 

S : K . GREWAL , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

(Departmont of Petroleum ) 

New Delhi, the oth July 1968 
. 8 . 0 . 2565. — Whereas by á notification of the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals . S . O . No . 712 dated 16th February 1988 under sub 
section ( I ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User 
in land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ), the Central Government declared its intention to 


SEC . 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3453 


- - - 


- - - - -- 


— 


— 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that 
notification for the purpose of laying pipelines. 

And whereas the competent authority has , under sub -section ( 1 ) of scction 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And whereas, the Central Government has , after considering the said report , 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule append 
ed to this notification . 

Now , whereas , in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( I ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification 
is hereby acquired tor laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub -section ( 4 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest 
on this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances , 


SCHEDULE 
Distt. - Gandhinagar 


S ate - Gujarat 


Taluka -- Gandhinagar 


- - 


- W - - - - - - -- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


Village 


S . No. 


Hector 


Are . 


P . Are . 


Sertha 


. 


. 


. 


0 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


719 
719 


40 
47 


16 
55 


[ No . 20 /3 / 67 - Prod / IOC.) 


S . O . 2566 . - -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from the drill sites well 
No. 89 and 107 to well No. K - 15 in the (Kalol ) Oil Field , in Gujarat State , Pipe 
lines should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the 
purpose of laying such Pipelines. It is necessary to acquire the Right of user 
in the land described in the schedule annexed thereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub -Section (i) of 
the Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of Uşer in Land ) 
Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notifcation object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority , at Elempeeco , 4th floor, Sayaji Gun ), Opp., College, 
Lokmanya Tilak Road , Baroda - 5 in the Office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project 
( Oil and Natural Gas Commission ) Baroda Every person making such an objec 
tion shall also state specifcally whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a 
legal practitioner, 


State - Gujarat 


SCHEDULE 
Distt . - Ahmedabad 

Tal - Dascroi 
Laying Pipetine from well No . 89 & 107 to well No. K - 15 


Village 


S . No. 


Hector 


Are 


P . Arc 


- - 


Adalat . 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


440 


3454 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


-- - 


- 


Village 


Șr No. 


Hector 


Are, 


P . Are . 


- 


- - - 


Adala ) 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 436 / 3 & 

437 / 1 & 2 
. 438 / 3 
. 435/ 7 
• 435 / 1 & 3 

435 / 4 & 5 
435 /6 
435 /8 


HKONON 


[No , 29 ( 5 ) / 68 -IOC . ] 


S . O . 2567. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is neccessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from the drill sites well 
No, 89 and 107 to well No. K - 15 in the (Kalol ) Oil Field , in Gujarat State Pipe . 
lines should be laid by the 01 and Natural Gas Commission and that for the 
purpose of laying such Pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the Right of uiser 
in the land described in the schedule annexed thereto . 


2 . Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
the Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act, 1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date 
of this notification object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
Competent Authority , at Elempeeco, 4th floor, Sayaji Gunj, Opp . College, 
Lokmanya Tilak Road , Baroda - 5 in the Office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project 
(Oll and Natural Gas Commission ) Baroda. Every person making such an objec 
tion shall also state spccically whether hc wishes to be heard in person or by a 
Legal practitioner . 


State - Gujarat 


Village 
Uvarsad 


w 


SCHEDULE 
Distt . — Ahmedabad 

Taluka - Dascroi 
Laying Pipeline from well No. 89 & 107 to well No. K - 15. 

- - - - 
S . No. Hector Are P. Are . 
944 / 1 
. 945/4A 

3A 

2A 
945/ 4B 
945/6 /40 
946 / 1 
950 / 2 
949 
953 / 1 
954 / 4 
954 / 1 
954 / 2 
V . P . Cart Track 
963 / 4 
962 


invwocamSOLENOvavaw 


0 
it 
to 
i 
= 
=NÅ 
TOONMHOO 
aand 

T 
N 
S 
BONTOO 

C 


995 
998 
996 / 1 


996 /2 /2 
996 / 2 / 1 
993 / 3 / 1 


[No. F . 29 (5 ) / 88 / IOC .] 
P . P . GUPTA , Under Secy. 


SEC. (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


3455 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION 

(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 18th June 1968 
8. 0 . 2568. ----In exercise of the powers conferred by the provlso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Delhi Zoological Park (Class III and Class IV Posts ), Recruitment Rules . 
1960 , published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 

Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( Department of Agriculture) S. O . No. 2089 
dated the, 19th August , 1960 at pages 2374 - 2385 of Part II Section 3 Sub - Section 
( il) of the Gazette of India dated the 27th August , 1960 ; namely : - 

1. These rules may be called the Delhi Zoological Park ( Class III and Class 
IV Posts ) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules , 1968 . 

2 . In the Schedule to the Delhi Zoological Park (Class III and Class IV Posts ) 
Recruitment Rules , 1960 for the entries against item 9 relating to Garden Super 
visor under columns 5 and 6 Age limit, etc., and " Educational & other qualifications" 
for the entries , the following entries shall be substituted , namely : - - 
5 . Between 18 — 25 years relaxable upto 30 years in the case of experienced 

candidates . 
6 . Degree / Diploma in Agriculture, Botany or Horticulture. 
Desirable :--- experience in Horticulture or Silviculture. 

[ No. F . 21 -5 / 08-FD.] 
S. N. TULSIANI , Under Secy . 


खाद्य, कृषि , सामुदायिक, विकास तथा सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

___ ( कृषि विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 18 जून 1968 
एस० प्रो० 2569. - - संविधान की धारा 309 की व्यवस्था द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकार का प्रयोग 
करत ए राष्ट्रपति जी उस दिल्ली चिड़ियाघर ( ततीय श्रेणी तथा चतुर्थ श्रेणी रद ) भर्ती नियम 
1960 म और संशोधन करने के लिए निम्नलिखित नियम बनाते हैं , जो कि भूतपूर्व खाद्य तथा 
कृषि मंत्रालय ( कृषि विभाग ) में भारत सरकार की अधिसूचना के अन्तर्गत भारत के राजपत्र 
दिनांक 27 अगस्त 1960 क भाग - 2 अनुभाग - 3 उप अनुभाग ( 2 ) के एस० प्र० संख्या 2089 
दिनांक 19 अगस्त 1960 पृष्ठ 2374 - 2385 पर प्रकाशित हुअा था । 

___ 1. ये नियम दिल्ली चिड़ियाघर ( तृतीय श्रेणी तथा चतुर्थ श्रणी पद ) भर्ती ( संशोधन ) 
नियम 1968 कहलाये जाएं । 

2. दिल्ली चिड़ियाघर ( तृतीय श्रेणी तथा चतुर्थ श्रेणी पद ) भर्ती नियम 1960 की 
अनुसूची में " गाईन सुपरवाइजर " सम्बन्धी मद संख्या 9 के इन्दराज के लिए कालम संख्या 5 
और 6 के अन्तर्गत " आयु सीमा इत्यादि " तथा "शिक्षा तथा अन्य योग्यताए " के स्थान पर अब 
निम्नलिखित इंदराज बदल दिये जायें : 

5. 18 से 25 वर्ष के बीच लेकिन अनुभबी उम्मीदवारों क मामले में 30 वर्ष तक छूट । 

6. कृषि वनस्पति -विज्ञान अथवा बांगवानी में डिग्री डिप्लोमा वांछनीय -बागवानी अथवा 
वन-वृक्ष-विज्ञान में अनुभव । 

[सं० 21- 5 /68 - एफ० डी०. ] 
एस० एन० तुलस्यानी, अवर सचिव । 


3456 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


(PART II - 


(Dopastmont of Agriculturo) . 

New Delhi, the roth July 1968 . 
S . O . 2570 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grad 
ing and Marking) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, 
the same having been previously published as required by the said section , namely :-- - 


RULES 


1, Thoko rutes may Bc called the Omong Grading and Marking (Amendment) Rults, 1968 . 

2 . In the Onions Grading and Marking Rules , 1964 , for Schedule II , the following Schedule 
shall be substituted namely : 

SCHEDULE , IT 

( Sco rules 3 and 4) 
“ Grade designation and definition of quality of Nasik/Saurashtra/Bellary Onions (Allium cepa L ) 


Special Charactenotice . 


Grade Designation 


General Characteristics 


Size (Diameter ) in 

mm (Min .) 


Colour 


3 


. 
, 


. 
. 


Extra Big. 
Big A . , 
Big ./ B * * 
Medium A 


. 
. 


Light to 

ROB 


Do . 


The Bulbs shall 
be reason -ably uniform in shape , 
colour & progeny characteristics 
of the variety /type. 


Do. 


R 


. 


Small 


A 
B 


Art 


Do. 


: : 


. 


2 , be mature , solid in feel, reason 

ably ..firm with tough clinging 
skins free from doubles and 
bottlenecks. 


Mixed 


A * * 


. 


, 


Do. 


3 . be thoroughly cured and dried . 


Different sizes of 
a variety .not be 
low 20 mm , 
Difforent sizes of 
variety not below 
20 mm . 


B 


4 , be free from damage caused by 

seed - stemtops , roots , moisture 
dry sun - scaled , sun - burn , spro 
uting and mechanical or other 
injuries and staining dirt or , 

other forcing material and 
5 . be free from moulds , diseases . 

Aoftrot, decay and insect attack . 


NOTE : - I. Tolerance for size : - For accidental errors in sizing notmore than 5 % by weight 

of the bulbs any lot may be of the next lower grade than the 

minimum dlatneter prescribed . 
2 . Tolerance for requirements in respect of gericral characteristics. - - To allow for 

variations other than size incident to proper grading & handling not more than 

10 % by Weight of the Onions may fail to meet the requirementsof the grade . 
3. Mixed : * * * This grade may be packed against a Fiſm Order only. 

B * The grade B shall apply to onion commercially known as phol onions and 
grown in Nasik District, The percentage of sced stem onions shall not exceed 20 % 
besides the usual tolerance indicated in footnote 2 . 


[No, 13 - 29 /67 - AM ]. 
V . S . NIGAM , Under Secy. 


Sec, 3 ( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 19 , 1890 


3 .157 


S - EL 


( Department of Agriculture ) 


New Delhi, the 12th July 1968 


S . O . 2571. — Whereas the Indian Veterinary Association , Madras , has, In pur 
suance of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) (hereinafter referred to as the said sub 
section ) of section 5 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 (59 of 
1960 ) , (hereinafter referred to as the said Act ) elected Dr. S . D . Sharma as its 
representative on the Animal Welfare Board with effect from the 7th May , 1968 : 


And Whereas the Central Government has , in pursuance of clause ( d ) of the 
said sub - section , nominated ( 1 ) Dr. Y . K Subrahmanyam and ( 2 ) Dr P , N , V . 
Kurup , as members of the said Board with effect from the 5th July , 1968 ; 


And whereas the Municipal Corporations of Botabay and Calcutta have, in 
pursuance of - clause ( e ) of the said sub - section , elected Shri Ravji Khimji 
Gepatra and Dr. G . C . Das as their representatives on the said Board with effect 
from the 2nd May and 24th May , 1968 respectively ; 


And whereas the All India Animal Welfare Association , Bombay has in pur 
buance of clause ( f ) of the said sub - section , chosen Shrimati Mehra D . Malegam 
vala as its representative on the said Board with effect from the 14th May, 1968 ; 


And , whereas the Assam Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , 
Gauhati, and the Bombay Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , 
Bombay , have, in pursuance of clause ( g ) of the said sub - section , chosen Shri 
D . N . Sarma and Shri Duleep Matthai as their representatives on the said Board 
with effect from the 12th June and 8th May, 1968 respectively ; 

And whereas the Council of States has, in pursuance of clause ( i) of the 
seid sub - section , elected Servashri R . P . Khaithal and G . P . Somasundaram as 
1ts representatives on the said Board with effect from the 11th May, 1968 ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 read with section 
5 of the gåld - Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments to the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture (Department of Agriculture ) S . O . No. 921 dated the 20th 
March , 1962; namely : 
In the said notification , 
( a ) against item . 3, for the entry in the first colnun , the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Dr. S . D . Sharma, L . V . P . (Hons ), F . Z . S ., Veterinary Officer , SPCA Hospi 

tal, Qudsia Road , Delhi- 6 . 
(b ) against items 4 and 5 , for the entry in the first column, the following 

entry shall be substituted , namely : 
(4 ) Dr. Y . K . Subrahmanyam , Deputy Director General (Small - pox ) , 

Directorate General of Health Services New Delhi and 
( 5 ) Dr. P . N . V . Kurup, Adviser , Indigenous Systems of Medicine, Depart 

ment of Health and Urban Development, New Delhi, 
( c ) against item 6 , for the entry in the first column, the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shri Ravji Khimji Genatra , 11, Mangal Society, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road , 

Kings Circle, Bombay - 19 . 
( d ) against item 7, for the entry in the first column, the following entry 

shall be substituted namely : 
Dr. G . C . Das, Health Officer, Corporation of Calcutta. 
( e ) against item 10 , for the entry in the first column, the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shrimati Mehra D . Malegamvæla , Kusum Villa , 14, Alexandra Road , New 

Gamdevi, Bombay - 7 . 


3458 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART 11 


( f) against item 12 , for the entry in the first column the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shri Duleep Matthai, Bombay S . P . C . A . No. 1 Government Gate Road, 

Parel, Bombay - 12 . 
( g ) against item 14 , for the entry in the first column, the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shri D . N . Sarma, Chairman , Assam S . P . C . A ., Kedar Road , Gauhati. 
( h ) against item 22 , for the entry in the first columnn , the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shri R , P . Khaithan , M . P ., 12 / 1, Keyatalla Lane, Calcutta / 74 South 

Avenue, New Delhi. 
(i) against item 23 , for the entry in the first column, the following entry 

shall be substituted , namely : 
Shri G . P . Somasundram , Belucurichi, via Rasimpuram , Salem District, 

Madras / 121 , North Avenue, New Delhi, 
( j) against the entry in the second column relating to item 11 for the words 

" Madhya Pradesh Gaushala Sangh , Raipur" the words " Andhra 

Pradesh Jeeva Raksha Sangham , Guntur " shall be substituted . 
( k ) against the entry in the second column relating to items 12 , 13 and 14 , 

for the words “ Delhi Coimbatore and Patna" , the words " Bombay , 
Ahmedabad and Gauhati" , shall be substituted . 

[No, 18 -6 / 68 - L .D . III.] 
SANTOKH SINGH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

(Departmont of Works and Housing) 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
8 . 0 . 2872 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public 
Premises ( Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 (82 of 1958 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the officer mentioned in column ( 1 ) of the Table 
below being gazetted officer of Government, to be estate officer for the purposes 
of the said Act and to exercise the powers conferred , and perform the duties 
imposed on estate officers by or under the said Act, within the Union territory of 
Delht in respect of the premises specified in the corresponding entry in column 
( 2 ) of the said Table . 

THE TABLE 


Designation of officer 


Categories of Public premises and 
local limits of jurisdiction 

2 


І 


Joint Director of Industries 

(Administration ) , Directo 
race of Industries, Delhi 
Administration , Delhi, 


Public premise8 within the local limits 
of Okhla and Badli Industrial Estates 
in the Union territory of Delhi, 
belonging to , or taken op lease or 
requisitioned by the Delhi Admini 
stration , 


(No. 21011 (4 ) / 86 - Pol.) 
V . P . AGNIHOTRI, Dy. Secy . . 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 
8 . 0 . 2573 . Whereas on the 28th May, 1968, a Garuda Indonesian Airways Con 
valr 990 Alrcraft PK -GJA , while on a scheduled passenger Alght from Bombay 


hrc. 8 ( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


3459 


to Karachi, crashed at village Vilalpada, near Bombay ) resulting in the death of . 
all the 15 passengers and 14 members of the crew ; 


And whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to 
hold formal investigation into the circumstances of the said accident; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 of the Alrcraft 
Rules , 1937 the Central Government hereby directs that a formal investigation 
of the said accident be held . 


The Central Government is further pleased to appoint Shri Y . S . Tambe, 
Retired Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court now stationed at Nagpur to hold 
the said invesigation . 


The Central Government is also pleased to appoint: 
( 1 ) Shri Y . R . Malhotra, 

Deputy Director General of 
Civil Aviation , 
New Delhi 
Shri C . S . Ballal, 
Senior Design Engineer, 
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited , 

Bangalore , 
to act as assessors to the said Investigation . 


( 2 ) 


[No. F . 7 - A / 22 -86 .1 
8 . N . KAUL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1968 
S .O . 2574 .- Shri B . K . Nundee, Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, 
on transfer from Bombay assumed charge of the post of Regional Officer , at Calcutta 
with effect from the afternoon of the 17th June, 1968 vice Shri Madan Gopal, 
Deputy Principal Information Oficer, relieved of the additional charge of the post . 
of Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors, Calcutta , 

ANO. T . 2 / 13 / 65 -FC. ] 
H . B . KANSAL , Under Secy . 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

76 facet, & TATE , 1968 
Togo 2575 - - TE À PUTETITEOT ata q , sit to Pray À 17 WAT , 
1968 के उपरान्ह से , उधमख्य सूचना अधिकारी श्री मदनगोपाल ने जिनको प्रादेशिक अधिकारी 
कन्द्रीय फिल्म सैन्सर बोर्ड कलकत्ता क अतिरिक्त भार से मुक्त कर दिया गया , प्रादेशिक 
अधिकारी, कलकत्ता क पद का भार सम्भाल लिया । 


1 


[FETT 2 / 13/65-94 (at) ] 

हरि बाबू कंसल, अवर सचिव । 


3.460 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


[Part II-- 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 
$ . O . 2576 .- In the Schedule to this Ministry s S .O . No. 1756 dated 10th May, 
1968 . appearing in the Gazette of India . Extraordinary Part II Section 3 Sub 
Section (li ) No. 172 dated 14th May , 1968 please delete S . No. 3 and all the entries 
against it in columns 2 to 8 . 

[No. F . 24 / 1 / 68 -FP App . 1271. ] 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of ( adastrial Development) 
( Indian Standards Institution ). . . 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 


- 


- 


- 


S . O . 2577. - In pursuance of sub -regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution Certification Market Regulations, 1955, as 
subsequently amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twenty -me licenties, particuars of which are given in the Scheduke hereto: annexed , 
have been granted authorizing the licencees to use the Standard Mark : 


THE SCHEDULE 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SL. 
No. 


Licence No . and 

and date 


Period of Validity 
From 

To 


Name ad Address of thei Artide Process 
Licenset : 

covered by the licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


I 


2 


SEC.3(11}}".THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


I CM / L - 1711 

4 - 6 - 1958 


16 - 6 -68 


2 CM / L - 1712 

4 - 6 - 1968 


1 7 -68 


IS : 417 - 1965 Specification for 
foorballs, Foley balls, basket 

balls and water polo balls . 
IS : 10 - 1964 . Specification for 
Pyyood .. tea - chests (second 

revision ). 
IS :1239 - 1964 Specification for 

mild : teel tubes and tubulars 
(Tevic) . 


3 CM / L - 1713 

6 - 6 - 1968 


16- 6 -68 


15- 6- 69 Mts, Bhaigada & Sons, S /6 , In - Football Cuceless) 
dustrial Area , Julurdur City . ( ) Volleyball Claceless ) 

( a) Basketball (laceless) 
30 -669 M /s. Parshotan Singh Gambhir , Plywood teachest battens, 

W /2 Industrial Area , nun : 

Nagár , Distt. Ambala . 
15 -6 -69 M /s. Bharat Steel Tube Limited , Mild steel tubes. 

Gamm , Distt Rohtak Hab . 
Fana) having their Office of 
14- 15 / F , Connaught Place , 

New Delhi. 
15 -6 - 69 M / s. Timber & Plywood Co. Tes - chest metal fittinge . 

Private Ltd ., No. 1 , Nimak : 
Mahal Road , Kidderpore , 
Calcutta having their Regu . 
Office at 6 Mission Row , 

Calatta - L. 
15-6 - 59 M /s Bairungtali Engineering Structural steel (standard qua - 

Co. Private Ltd ., 109 , Girish : Lity2 
Ghose Road , Belhurmath , 
Howrah (West Bengal) . 


16 - 6 - 68 


4 CML- 17141 

11 - 6 - 1968 


IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea - chests (second 
rouision ) . 


5 CM / L - 1715 

12 - 6 - 1968 : + 


( 16 -6 - 68 


IS 226- 1962 Specification for 

structural steel (standard quas 
tity ) ( thard reson ). Es 


3461 


3462 


6 


CM / L - 1716 

12 -6 - 1968 


16- 6- 68 


lity ), 


7 


CM / L - 1717 
12 -6 - 1968 


16 -6 -68 


CML - 1718 
12 -6 - 1968 


16 -6 - 68 


9 


CM / L - 1719 
12 - 6 - 1968 


16 - 6 - 68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


IO CM / L - 1720 

12 - 6 - 1968 


15 -6- 69 M /s, Bajrangbal: Engineering Co, Structural steel (Ordinary qua IS :1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Private Ltd ., 109 , Girish 

structural sted (ordinary qua 
Ghose Road , Bellarmath , 

lity ). 
Howrah (West Bengal). 
15 -6 - 69 M /s, Ashoka Steel Industries , Structural steel (standard qua - I : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
13 / 1, Belur Road , Liluah lity ) . 

structural steel (standard 
(Howrah ) having their Office 

quality) ( third revision ). 
at 138 , Ganning Street, Calcutta . 
15-6 -69 Ms. Ashoka Steel Industries , Structural steel (ordinary qua - IS : 1977- 1962 Specification for 
13 / I , Belur Road , Liluah lity ) , 

structural steel (ordinary 
(Howrah ) having their Office 

quality ). 
at 138 , Canning Street , Cal 

cutta . 
15-6 -69 M /s. Amrit Banaspati Company 18 -Litre square tins , 

IS :916 – 1966 Specification for 
Ltd . , Grand Trunk Road , 

18 -litre square tins ( first 
Ghaziabad ( U . P . ) 

revision ). 
15 -6 -69 M / s, Hindustan Transmission Copper Oxychloride water dis - IS :1507- 1966 Specification for 

Products, Chandiyali, Kurla persīble powder concentrates , copper oxychloride water 
Vihar Road , Bombay - 72 . 

dispersible powder .. concen 

trátes. 
15 -6 -69 M / s. Standard Mineral Products BHG water dispersible powder IS :562- 1962 Specification for 
Private Lid ., Subhash Nagar, concentrates . 

BHC water dispersible powder 
Jogeshwari (East), Bombay - 60 . 

concentrates . 
15 -6 - 69 M s, Indo -American Electricals Enamelled round copper ) IS : 1595 - 1967 Specification 

Ltd ., G . T . Road , Durgapur- wire with high mechanical for enamelled round copper 
I , Distt. Burdwan , West Ben - Properties and 

Wire with high mechanical 
gal having their Regd . Office 

properties ( first revision ). 
at 21, Old Court House Street, (6 ) Enamelled round coppa 

IS :2659 - 1964 Specification 
Calcutta - 1 . wire for elevated temperatures for enamelled round copper 

wire for elevated tempera 

tures . 
15 -6 - 69 M /s. Hindustan Transmisssion Pro Copper sulphate , 

IS : 261- 1966 Specification for 
ducts Prop : Madhusudan 

copper sulphate. 
Ltd )., Chandiveli, Kurla Vihar 
Road , Bonibay - 72 . 


16 - 6 -68 


II CL-I2I 

13 - 6 - 1968 


16 - 6 -68 


16 -6 -68 


I2 CM / L - 1722 

14 -6- 1968 


16 - 6 -68 


13 CM /L - 1723 

17 -6 - 1968 


[PARTII 


4 CM / L - 1724 

17 - 6 - 1968 


1 - 7 -68 


SEC.3(ii)] 


1-7 -68 


15 CM / L - 1725 

18 - 6 - 1968 
16 CM / L - 1726 

18 - 6 - 1968 


16 -6 -68 


17 


CM /L - 1727 
24 -6 - 1968 


21-6 - 68 


18 CM / L - 1728 

25 -6 - 1968 


1 - 7 -68 


30 -6 -69 M /s. Ankar Industries , Jessore Aldrio dusting powders . IS :1308 - 1958 Specification for 
Road , P . O . Madhyamgram , 

aldrin dasting powders . 
Distt. 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 16 / 1 Ganesh 

Chandra Avenue, Calcutta - 13 . 
30 -6 - 69 M /s. Hans Raj Mahajan & Sons, Cricket bats. 

JS : 828- 1966 Specification for 
G . T . Road , Jullundur City . 

cricket bats (revised ). 
15 -6 -69 M / s. Apeejay Structurals Ltd . Welded low carbon gas cylinders IS :3196 - 1965 Specification for 

P . O . Rajbardh ( E . Riy .), for the storage and transpor - welded low carbon steel gases 
Distt Burdwan , West Bengal tation of liquefied petroleum cylinders for the storage and 
having their Office at 15 , gases. 

transportation of liquefied 
Brabourne Road , Calcutta - I. 

petroleum gases. 
15 -6 -69 M /s . P . K . Velu & Co. Poivate Endrin eniulsifiable concentrates , IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
Ltd . , Agra Road , Naupada, 

endrin emulsifiable concen 
Thana baving their Office at 

trates . 
111, Mahatma Gandhi Road , 

Bombay - I . 
30 -6 - 69 The Indian Steel Rolling Mills Hot rolled mid steel and med - IS : 1139 - 1966 Specification for 

Ltd ., Main Road , Tiruninra - ium tensile steel deformed hot rolled inild steel and 
vuc (Chingleput Distt. ) having abrs for concrete reinforcc medium tensile steel deformed 
their Office at ro8 , Armenian ment. 

bars for concrete reinforcement 
Street , (Oriental Building ), 

( revised ). 
Madras- I . 
30 - 6 -69 Ms. Kirloskar Brothers Ltd ., Sluice valves for water works IS :780– 1967 Specification for 

Kirloskaryadi, Distt. Sangli, purposes (with non - ferrous sluice valves for water works 
Maharashtra State. 

spindles and rings) class I, purposes ( hard revision ). 
with nominal size of 100 mm . 

and 150 mm . 
30 - 6 - 69 M /s . Bombay Wire Roces Ltd ., Steel wire ropes for haulage IS : 1856 - 1961 Specification for 
Kolshet Road , Thana having purposes in mines . 

steel wire roles for haulage 
their Office at 72 , Advent, 

purposes in mines . 
Foreshore Road, Bombay- I. 
30 - 6 -69 M /s . Forge & Blower Co . (Prop : Three - phase induction motors , IS :325 - 1961 Specification fof 

Laljibhai Jivram Private Ltd .), 2 . 2 KW (3 HP) and 3 - 7 three - phase induction motors 
Naroda Road , Ahinedabad -2 , KY ( 5 HP ) with class A 

(second repision ). 
Gujarat State . 

insulation. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1968/ASADHA29,1890 


1 - 7 - 68 


19 CM /L -1729 

27 -6 - 1968 


1 - 7 -68 


20 CM / L - 1730 

28 - 6 - 1968 


21 CM / L - 1731 

28 - 6 - 1968 


1- 7 -68 


[No. CMD / 13 :11. ) 


3463 


3464 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


S . O . 2578 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution 
here by notifies that the Indian Standard (s ) particulars of which are given in the Schedule 
hereto annexed have been cstablished during the period 16 May to is June, 1968 ; 


THE SCHEDULE 


- - I - - 


- 


ŞI, 
No. 


No. and Title of the Indian 
Standard Eytablished 


Brief particulars 


No und Title of the 
Indian Standard or 
Standards , if any su 
perseded by the new 
Indian Standard 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


I IS : 306 - 1968 Specification for IŞ : 306 - 1969 Specifi - This standard covers the rc 

tin bronze ingots and caştings cation for tin bronze quirements of tin bronze in 
(second revision ) 

ingots and castings gote and castings designated 
(revised ) 

as CuSn8Zn4. ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 
2 IS : 455 - 1967 Specification IS :455- 1962 Specifi - This standard covers the manu 

for portland blagtfurnace cation for portland bla - facture and chemical and phy 
Blag cement (second revision ) stfurnace slag cement sical requirements for Port 

(l evised ) 

land blastfurnace slag ce 

ment. (Price Rs. 4 : 00 ) 
3 IS : 722 (Part VI) - 1968 spe 

This standard applies to poly 
cification for ac clctricity 

phase whole - current and trans 
metres Part VI vår -hour 

former - operated var - hour me 
metres 

ters with or without maximum 
demand indicator and other 
tariff devices or accessories . 

(Price Rş. 7 . 00 ) 
4 IS : 842 - 1968 Specification IS : 842 - 1956 Specifi - This standard covers the general 

for Smith s swages ( first cation for smith s requirements for the following 
rovision ) 

swages 

five types of smith s swages : 
(a ) Bottom swages , Small 

shank , single grooved ; 
(b ) Bottom Swage , large 

shank , single grooved : 
(c ) Bottom swages, large 

shank , double grooved ; 
( d ) Top swages , and 
( e ) Top swages , wire clamp 

type. 

(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
S IS : 1057 - 1968 Specification IS : 1057 - 1958 Specifi - This standard prescribes the 

for commercial metric carat cation for commercial · requirements for commercial 
weights (first revision ) metric carat weights mctric carat weights intended 

for use in wçighing pearls , 
diamonds and other pre 

cious stones . ( Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
6 . I $ : 1076 - 1967 Preferred IS : 1076 - 1957 Specifi . This standard consists of three 
numbers (first revision ) cation for preferred sections. Section I lists 

numbers 

the preferred numbers in the 
four basic series (RS, Rio , 
R20 and R40 ), as well as the 
additional R60 series intended 
for special application . Sec 
tion 2 contains a guide to the 
use of preferred nunhers . 
Section 3 contains guide to 
the choice of sērics of preferred 
numberg and of series con 
taining more rounded values 
of preferred numbers . (Price 
Rs. 8 . 50 ) 


S - C. $( 11) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


3.465 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


7 


IS : 1109 - 1968 Specification 

for borax ( first revision ) 


IS : 1109- 1957 Specifi - This standard prescribes the 

cation for borax requirements and the methods 
technical 

of sampling and test for borax... 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


8 


IS : 1305 - 1967 Specification 

for graphite for use as foun - 
dry facing material (second 
revision ) 


IS ; 1305- 1963 Specifi - This standard covers the re 

cation for graphite quirements for three grades 
for use as foundry of graphiţc, namely , grades 
facing material (re - 1, 2 and 3 for use 89 foundry 
vised ) 

facing material. (Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) 


9 IS : 1385- 1968 Specification IS : 1385 - 1959 Spccifi. This standard covers the 

for phosphor bronze rods and cation for phosphor requirements for two grades 
bars , sheet and strip , and wire bronze rods and bars , of phosphor bronze for rods . 
( first revision ) 

sheet and strip , and and bars , sheet and strip 
wires 

and wire , designated as . 
PCuSnt and PCuSno . 
( Price Rs. 4 . 00) 


IO 


IS : 1408 - 1968 Recommended 

procedure for inspection 
of copper - base alloy sand 
castings (first rcvision ) 


IS : 1408 - 1959 Specifi- This standard rcconimends suit 
cation for rccointended able procedures for indu 
procedure for inspec - Strial inspection of copper 
tion of copper -base base alloy and castings to 
alloy sand castings ensure that they comply with 

the relevant specifications. 

(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
IS : 1524 - 1960 Speci- This standard covers the re 

fication for refacttory quirements for refactory 
sleeves for steel 

sleeves. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
plants . 


II 


IS : 1524- 1958 Spocification 

for refractory sleeves ( first 
Tevis1011) 


I2 


IS : 1925 - 1968 Specification 

for ladle refractories for 
steel plants ( first revision ) 


IS : 1525 - 1960 Specifi - This standard covers the re 

cation for ladle re q uirements for ladle refrac 
fractories for steel torics used for teeming of 
plants 

steel. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


13 


IS : 1540 (Part I) - 1967 Spe - 

cification for quick lime 
and hydrated lime for che- 
mical Industries Part I 

quick lime ( first revision ) 
IS : 1823 - 1968 Specification 

for floor door stoppers 
( first revision ) 


I $ 1540 - 1959 Specifi - This standard prescribes the 

cation for quick lime requirements and the methods 
and hydrated lime of sampling and test for quick 
for chemical industries lime for chemical industries . 

Price Rs. 8 . 00 ) 


14 


IS 1823 - 1961 Specifi - This standard lays down the 

cation for floor door requirements for floor door 
stoppers 

stopper suitable for use with 
door shutters of 30 , 35, 40 
and 45 mm thickness . 
(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


Index to IS : 1870 - 1965 . (Price 

Rs. 5 :00 ) 


15 Index to IS : 1870 - 1965 Com 

parison of Indian and 
Overscas standards for wro 
ught steels for general engi 

neering purposes 
16 IS : 1885 (Part X )- 1968 Elec 

trotechnical vocabulary 
Part X Electrical power 
system protoction 


17 . I$ : 1997- 1967 Specification 

for burettes ( first révision ) 


IS : 1997 - 1961 Spocifi - 

cation for burettes 


This standard covers defini 

tions of terms applicable to 
electrical power systom pro 

tection . Price Rs. 3 : 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
dimensional requirements and 
the method of sampling and 
test for burettes required for 
general laboratory purposes. 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 


3466 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / AŞADHA 29, 1890 


[PART Il 


(1) 


(2) 


(4 ) 


18 IS : 2766 (Part I) - 1968 Me 

thods of chemical analysis 
of primary nickle Part 1 


This standard covers methods 

of chemical analysis of nickel, 
cobalt and copper (Grades I 
and 2 ), Sulphur, carbop and 
iron (Grade 2 ) of primary 
mickel covered by IS : 2782 
1964 . (Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


: 19 


IS : 3373 (Part II) - 1967 Spoci 

fication for wirewound resis 
tors , typo II Part II vit 
reous enamelled 


This standard covers the re 

quirements for vitreous ena 
melled wirowound resistors , 
type II used in electronic and 
telecommunication equipment, 
(Price Rs. 5 .00) 


: 20 


IS : 3400 (Part VI) - 1967 Me 
thods of test for vulcanized 
rubbers Part VI Resistance 
to liquids 


This standard prescribes test 

procedures for dotermination 
of change in volume or dimen 
sions, soluble matter extracted 
by liquid , mechanical tests 
on swollen rubber and mechani 
cal properties after immer 
sion and drying in Section 1 , 
Section 2 , Section 3 , and 
Section 4 respectively . (Price 
Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


21 IS : 3435 - 1968 Specification 

for 99 percent secondary 
aluminium notched bare and 
ingots for remelting for 
aircraft purposes 


This standard covers require 
ments for 99 percent 8cc011 
dary aluninium notched bus 
and ingots for remelting for 
aircraft purposes . (Price 

Rs. 2 : 00 ) 
This standard covers the della 
nitions of terms commonly 
used in the hosiery industry 
and trade . (Price Rs. 12 . 00 ) 


22 IS : 3596 - 1967 Glossary of 

terms relating to hosiery 


. 


23 IS : 4033 - 1968 Gencral re 

quirements for hospital ſur 
niture 


This standard covers general 
requirements for hospital fur 
niture. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 


24 


IS : 4207 - 1967 Specification 

for leather for football. 


This standard prescribes the 

requirements and the methods 
of sampling and test for leather 
for football produced by full 
chrome tanpage : chrome alu 
minium combination tannage 
or by vegetable tannage . 
( Priec Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


- 25 IS :4400 (Part 11 ) - 1967 Me 

thods of measurements on 
seniconductor devices Part 
II low power signal diodes . 


This standard coversmethods of 
measurement on low power 

signal diodes or characteris 
tica covered by IS : 3700 (Part 
II) - 1967, (Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


26 IS : 4410 ( Part I)- 1967 Gloss 

Ary of terms relating to river 
yalley projects Part I Irri 
gation practice , 


This standard covers definitions 

of terms commonly occurring 
in the limited field of irrigation 
practice , for example , types of 
crope, areas and water re 
quirements . (Price RA . 3 . 50 ) 


Sec . $( il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3467 


= 


(t ) 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


27 IS : 4410 (Part II) - 1967 Glos 

sary of terms relating to 
river valley projects Part II 
Project plinning . 


29 19 :4410 ( Part III)- 1967 Glos 

sary of terms relating to 
river palley projects Part 
III River and river training . 


29 IS :4125- 1957 Sp . cification for 

p -Nitrotoluenc o -sulphonic 
acid . 


This glossary contains defini 
tions of terms relating to types 
of projects , preliminary in 
vestigations and surveys , types 
of reports , economic aspect of 
project planning , estimates and 

contracts . (Price Rs. 8 . 00 ) 
This standard contains definitions 

of terms rclating to types of 
river , river flow behaviour , 
channel erosion , sediment 
load and river training 

( Price Rs. 5 : 50 ). 
This standard prescribes the 

requirements and the method 
of sampling and test for 
p -nitrotoluene 0 - sulphonic acid 

(Price Rs. 4 . 00 ). 
This standard covers mould 
steels in wrought conditiont 
These are generally used for 
moulds for plastics and for die 
casting of low melting non 
ferrous alloys . (Price Rs. 
3 . 50 ). 
This standard covers the requir 
ments for wrought unalloyed and 
alloyed steel bars , billets and fini 
shed forgings for case hardening 
(Price Rs. 5 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and the method 
of test for toxaphene, technical 
( Price Rs. 7 . 00 ) . 


30 


IS :4430 - 1967 Spccification for 

mould steels . 


31 


IS 4432 - 1967 Specification 

for casc hardening steels 


32 


IS :4451 - 1967 Specification for 

toxaphene , technica ). 


33 IS : 4453 - 1967 Code of practice 

for exploration by pits , tren 
ches ,drifts and shafts . 


This standard lays down the 
method for exploration by 
means of pits , trenches , 
drifts and shafts . ( Price Rs. 
5 . 50 ) . 


34 IS :4456 (Part I ) - 1967 Mc 

thods of test for chemical 
resistant mortars Part I 
silicate type and resin type 


This standard covers the mothods 
for carrying out light tests on 
silicate type and resin type 
chemical resistant mortars . 
(Price Rs. 7 . 50 ) . 


35 IS :4466 (Part 1 ) - 1967 Re 

commendationg for farm 
cattle housing for plain arcas 
with medium rainfall. 


This standard recommends A 

layout and constructional re . 
quirements of a farm cattle 
shed for an average farmer 
having normally three milch 
animals with their calves and a 
pair of bullocks . (Price Rs . 


Part I Cattle shed for an 

average farmer. 


3 50 ) . 


36 


IS : 4172 (Part 1 ) - 1967 Methods 

for identification of the ap 
plication classes of dyes on 
textile materials Part I 
Cotton and oher cellulosic 
fibres , 


This standard prescribes methods 

for identification of application 
classes of dyes on cotton and 
other cellulosic fibres. (Price 
Rs. 4 00 ). 


3468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 . 


[PART II 


( 3 ) 


37 IS :4477 ( Part I )- 1967 Methods 

of incagurement of fluid 
flow by means of venturi 
meters Part I liquids. 


38 IS : 4479- 1967 Methods of 

measurements on magnetic 
tapes for sound recording 
and reproduction . 


39 IS : 4484 - 1967 Specification 

for electrically welded stud 
link anchor chains and 
attachments . 


do IS : 4486 - 1967 Recommended 

methods for the determina 
tion of the permittivity and 
dielectric dissipation factor 
of electrical insulating ma 
terials at power , audio and 
radio frequencies including 
metre wavelengths. 


This standard specifice the 

profile and sizes and materials 
for the manufacture of venturi 
meters and venturi nozzles 
tesides sctting out the proce 
dure for the meagurement of 
non - pulsating , single phase: 
clean ( free from dirt and free 
gases ) liquids . (Price Rs . 

9 . 50 ). 
This standard lays down the 

methods of measurements for 
determining the physical, 
mechanical and electrical per 
formance characteristics of 
magnetic tapes for sound re 
cording and reproduction , 

(Price Rs. 6 . 00 ), 
This standard lays down the 

specification for the electrically 
welded stud link anchor chains 
for ships with Dee type and 
Kenter type shackles . (Price 

Rs. 8 . 00 ). 
This standard covers test methods 
for datermination of permi 
trivity and dissipation factor 
And of quantities calculated 
from them , such as loss index 
within the frequency range of 
50 c / 8 to 300 Mc s , of electrical 
insulating materials - liquids, 
fusible as well as solid ma 

terials . (Price R $ 19 . 50 ). 
This standard lays down the 

requirements of fixed height 
overhead tables used in hospi 
tals and other similar insti 

tutions. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) . 
This standard specifies the 
measurement of the light out 
put of cinematograph pro 
jectors for narrow gauge film 
( 16 mm and less ) . (Price 

Rs. 2 . 00 ) , 
This standard recommends the 
screen luminance (brightness ) 
for the projection of 16 mu 
colour , and black - and -white 
cinematogfah film by incan 
descent lamps. (Price Rs. 

2 . 50 ) , 
This standard specifies the 

requirements for pipe wrenches , 
foot print type, for general 
engineering purposes . (Price 

Rs. 4 .00 ). 
This standard lays down the 

requireinents for ballast forks 
for general purposes . (Price 
Rs. 3 . 50 ). 


41 


IS :4494 - 1968 Specification for 

tables, overbed . 


42 IS :4495 - 1968 Method of mea 

surement of light output of 
cinematograph projectors 
( for narrow gauge film ). 


43 


16 : 4496 - 1968 Scrcen lumina 

nceforthe projection of 16 
mm film by incandescent 
lamps, 


44 


IS : 4500- 1967 Specification for 

pipe wrenches, foot print 
type. 


45 IS :4505- 1968 Specification for 

ballast forks. 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Src. 5 (151 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3. 469 


( 2 ) 


(3 ) 


(4 ) 


I 


+ 


46 IS :4514 - 1968 Specification for 

forceps, tonsil dissecting 
(waugh s pattern ) . 


47 IS :4516 - 1968 Specification for 

ellipticalmild steeltubes . 


This standard covers the require 
ments for tonsil- dissecting for 
ceps (Waugh s pattern ), toothed 
toothed with berrations, and , 

serrated . ( Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) . 
This standard covers the te 

quirements for welded and 
seamless eliptical mild steel 
tubes for structurals and heat 
exchangers . (Price Rs . 2 . 50 ) . 
This standard prescrbics the 
requirements and the methods 
ofsampling and test for welder s 

brush . ( Price Rs. 3 : 50 ) . 
This standard prescrbies themeth 

ods of preparing gamples and 
tests for raw styrene - butadiene 
rubbers . (Price Rs. 8 . 50 ). 


48 


IS : 4517 - 1967 Specification 

for brush , welder s. 


19 I $ :4518 (Part I) - 1967 Methods 

of tests for styrene -buta 
dienc rubber ( sbr) Part I 
Determination of volatile 
matter , total ash , organic 
acid , soap , antioxidants , 
bound styrene and mooney 

viscosity . 
IS : 4520 – 1968 Specification 

for forceps , punch , nasal 
(citelli s antrum and hajck s 
sphenoidal) 


I IS : 4531 — 1968 Specification 

for swivels 


52 IS : 4534 - - 1968 Specification 

for adapter for terminal de 
vices , artificial lims 


53 IS : 4539 -- 1968 + Performance 

requirements for auto 
rickshaw meters, distance 
cum -time typc 


This standard lays down the 
requirements for nasal purch 
forceps (Citelli s Antrum 
and Heick s sphenoidal) ( Price 
Rs. 2 . 50 ). 
This standard lays down thebasic 

requirements of two types of 
swivels using ball bearings and 
plain bearings respectively . 
(Price Rs. 5 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies the re 

quirements pertaining to 
materials, shape , dimen 
gions , workmanship and 
finish of adapter for terminal 

devices . (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard cover the per 

formance requirements for 
distance- cum - time type auto 
rickshaw meters to determine 
charges for hire of auto 
rickshaws (Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 
This standard covers definitions 
of tea tasting terms, terms 
relating to tea manufacture 
and those used by producers , 
buyers , blenders and brokers 
in the trade. ( Price Rs. 6 . 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements and methods 
of sampling and test for 
marquenching oils . (Price Rs. 

2 . 00 ) 
This standard covers genera 

requirements and minimim 
performance requiremenis for 
mains- oper: Ited television 
receivers cmploying vacy um 
tubes. (Price Rs. 3 .50 ) 


54 IS : 4541 - 1968 Gloggary of 


tea terms 


35 IS : 4543 - 1957 Specification 

for marquenching oils 


$ 6 IS : 4547 – 1968 Performance 

requirements of receivers 
for monochrome television 
broadcast transmissions 


I 


n 


- 


- 


- 


- 


3470 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968/ ASADHA 29, 1890 

= - _ . - = - = 
( 3) 


[PART II 

= 


$ 7 IS : 4548 (Part I) — 1967 Me 

thods of chemical analysis 
of copper - gold brazing 
alloys Part I Analysis of 
gold and copper, 


This gtandard covers the me 

thods of chemical analysig . 
of god and copper in copper 
gold brazing alloys as spe 
cified in IS : 2927 – 1964 . 
(Price Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


E 


58 IS : 4590 - 1958 Recommen 

dation for positioning of 
magnetic conpasses in ships. 


59 


IS :4551 — 1968 Specification 

for lifeboat crutches, 


60 


IS :4552 – 1968 Specification 

for portable jacks for auto 
mobiles , mechanical and 
hydraulic 


61 IS 4553 — 1997 Specification 

for leather for cricket ball . 


This standard gives general 
recommendations goveraing the 
minimum distance of a com 
pass from magnetic matcriat. 
taking into consideration the 
accuracy required for the 
compags for normal navigation 

(Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 
This standard specifieg the me 

thod of manufacture , materia 
and dimensions of crutches . 

(Price Rs. 2 00 ) 
This standard specifies the main 
dimensions and methods of test 
for portable jacks commonty 
used for passenger cars and 
commercial vehicles . The 
Jacks covered in this standard 
may be operated hydraulically 
or mechanically and in the 
latter case , they may be applied 
from below the vehicle or 
from its sides or end . The 
jacks may be designed for a 
single lift or multiple lift 
(Price Rs: 3 : 50 ) 
Thig standard prescribes the re 
quirements , methods of samp 
ling and test for vegetable 
tanned leather for themanufac 
turer of cricket balls. (Prico: 
Rs . 5 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies the re 

quirements pertaining to ma 
terial, shapes , dimensions, 
workmanship , finish and hard 
ness of ball pein and claw 
hammer terminal devices . 

(Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies the re 

quirements pertaining to ma 
terial, shape, dimensions, 
workmanship and finish for 
typing finger terminal de 

vice. Price Rs. 2 . 00 ) 
This standard specifies the re 
quirements pertaining to ma- , 
terlal, shepo, dimensions , 
workmanship and finish for 
adjustable flat office appliance 
torninal device. (Price Rs. 
2 : 00 ) 


62 


IS :4554 – 1968 Specification 

for hammers terminal de 
vices , ball pein and claw , 
for artificial limbs. 


63 


IS :4556 - 1968 Specification 

for typing finger terminal 
device for artificial limbs. 


64 IS :4557 — 1968 Specification 

for appliance , office, flat 
adjustable , for artificial 
limbs . 


Seg. 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /AŞADHA 29 , 1890 


3471 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


_ 


. M 


(3 ) 


HYY 


- - - 


65 IS 4558 - 1968 Code of prac 

tice for under - drainage of 
lined canals . 


66 


IS :4569 - 1958 Specification 

for scissors , eye. 


This standard covers method 
for under -drainage of line 
canals . However , it does not 
cover alignmont through 
gypscous soils . ( Price Rs. 

3 50 ) 
This standard covers the ro 

quirements for Cyc scissors 
(iris, strabismus, enucleation , 
tenotomny, conjunctival, and 
corneal grafting) (Price Rs . 

5 . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes rc 

quirements of two grades of 
3 -strand (hawser - laid ) ropes 
made from polyamide fila 
ments of density , I 14 ( ap 
prox). Thiş., standard covers 
ropes having nominal linear 
density from II to about 
6000 Kilotex and diameter 
from 4 to 96 mm , (Price Rs. 
4 . 00 ) 


67 


IS :4572 - 1968 Specification 

for polyamide (nylon ) 
filament ropes ( hawser- laid ) 


ailable, fafest Delhi-I anda Fourth Floorkant 


. Copies of these Indian Standards are available , for sale, with the Indian Standards Institu 
tion , Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New Delhi- I and also its branch offices at 
(i) Bombay Mutual Terrace , Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay - 7, (ii) Third and Fourth Floors , 5 Chow 
ringhoc Approach , Calcutta - 13 , (i ) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 General Patters Road , 
Muras- 2 and (iv ) 117 /4188 , Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. 

[No. CMD / 13 : 2. ] 
(DR.) SADGOPAL , 
Deputy Director General. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 
8 . 0 . 2579 . - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in respect of an application 
under Section 33A of the said Act Aled by Shri I. S . Gopalakrishnan , Senior 
Technical Omcer, Alr , India , which was received by the Central Government on 
25th June, 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

BOMBAY 
COMPLAINT NO. CGIT - 8 OF 1968 

( Atising out of Reference No. CGIT -26 of 1967 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri I. S . Gopalakrishnan - Complainant. 

Vs. 
Air India Corporation , Bombay - Opp . Party. 
PRESENT: 

Shrl A . T . Zambre , Presiding Oncer . 


3472 


T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


(RART: 11 


APPEARANCES : 
For the Air India - Shri T V . Lalyani Industrial Relations Adviser, Ai 

India . 
For the Complainant Shri I, S. Gopalakrishnan , Senior Technical Officer, 

Air India , 
STATE : Maharashtra . 

INDUSTRY : Airways, 
Bombay , the 19th June, 1968 

AWARD 
1 . Mr. I. S . Gopalakrishnan Sr. Technical Oncer of the Alr India Corporation 
has Aled this application against the corporation under section 33 ( a ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act , 1947 . 

2 . The employees of the Air India Corporation represented by the Air Craft 
Engineers Association had made a demand to the corporation that no one except 
the Alr Crafts malntenance engineers employed by the corporation should be 
required or allowed to inspect or certify the maintenance or over -haul of air 
craft or its components or do both as per terms of the agreement arrived at 
between corporation and the association . The management had not accepted 
the claim and had contended that the agreement had nothing to do whatso 
ever with the inspection and certification of Air Crafts . They have contended 
that the employment of approved Inspectors in the work - shop of the corporation 
at Santacruz was the long standing practice followed and was in accordance with 
the Director General of Civil Aviation requirement for approved inspection . As a 
result this dispute could not be settled and the employees had resorted to strike 
and the matter has been referred to the tribunal and is pending in reference 
No. CGIT - 26 of 1967 . 

3. The complainant who was working as the senior technical officer in the 
scale of Rs. 1000 - 116 - 1500 and drawing Rs. 1400 was alleged to have taken 
part in the above mentioned illegal strike and was proceeded for misconduct . 
The corporation charged the complainant with thrce misconducts 
(a ) Wilful in -subordination and disobedience of the lawful and reasonable 

order of his superiors. 
(b ) Absence from duty without permission and without sufficient cause in 

combination with orders. 
( c ) Alding and abetting an illegal strike by the All India Alr Craft 

Engineerss Association . 
4 , A departmental enquiry committee was appointed and after notice an 
enquiry was held . 

5 . The complainant Gopalakrishnan did not take part in the departmental 
enquiry proceeding and it was heard ex parte and as the result of the depart 
mental enquiry the General Manager removed him from services by order 
No. GM / 74 - 15 ( B ) / 6214 dt. 17th November , 1967 which was communicated to him 
by the Personnel Manager in letter NO . STR / MISC / 6212 dt. 17th November , 1967. 
The complainant thereafter preferred an appeal against the order of removal. The 
appellate authority , chairman of the corporation after hearing the appellant 
accepted the Anding of the enquiry committee regarding the misconduct. But 
considering the good record of service of the complainant modified the order of 
sentence and passed an order reducing hun by the stage 1,e , Rs. 1300 in the same 
grade . 


6 . The complainant had in the complaint alleged that he was directly con 
cerned in the dispute pending before the tribunal in reference No. CGIT / 26 / 1967 . 
The departmental enquiry hold by the corporation was merely an offshoot of the 
strile undertaken by the workmen which resulted in the reference. The cor 
poration had not obtained any permission of the tribunal before passing the order , 
The enquiry was 111egal malafide and unjust . It was also opposed to the cannong 
of natural justice and the same should be set aside. 

7 . In reply to the complaint the management denied the allegation and con 
tended that the complainant who was working as senior technical officer was not 
a workman as deАned in section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and the 
complaint was not maintainable . It was further contended that the complainant 
was not a workman concerned in the dispute which is pending before the tribunal 


SEC. 3( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


3473 


and the misconduct for which the complainant was punished was not connected 
wich the dispute in the pending reference . They denied the allegations about 
the illegality malafide nature of the enquiry and have contended that the enquiry 
was properly held in accordance of the principles of the natural justice . The 
complainant had also preferred an appeal and after hearing him the appellate 
authority and accepted the Anding of the enquiry committee and reduced the 
sentence on compassionate grounds. And as there was no contravention of the 
provisions of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act the complaint should be 
dismissed , 


8 . After the complaint and notices to the parties, the tribunal received 4 
letter purporting to have been sent by the complainant intimating the tribunal 
that he would like to withdraw his complaint where upori notices were issued 
to the parties and the matter was fixed for hearing . 


9 . The complainant who is present admitted that he had sent the letter about 
the withdrawal of the complaint. He requested the tribunal to give permission 
to withdraw the complaint as he did not want to proceed with the same. The 
corporation has also no objection . As the complainant docs not press his com 
plaint, it shall have to be held that the management has not contravened the 
Provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and the complainant is not 
entitled to any relief. Hence my award accordingly . 


10. No order as to costs. 


(Sa .) A T ZAMRY 

(Sd .) A . T . ZAMBRE , 
Central Government Industrial 

Tribunal, Bombay . 
Copy of the award is to be submitted to the Government as required by law . 

[No. 4 / 163 /07 / LR -III. ] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 12th July 1968 


S . O . 2580. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Calen 
donian Insurance Company , Limited , 50 , Janpath , New Delhi and their work 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
gaid dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and 
clausc ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal 
of which Shri Ishwar Das Pawar shall be the Presiding Officer with headquar 
ters at Chandigarh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the following demands of the General Insurance Employees 

Association Northern Zone, New Delhi for the peons and drivers of 
the Calendonian Insurance Company New Delhi are justified ? If 

so , to what relief are the workmen entitled and from what date ? 
1. Free medical aid for the workmen and their dependents . 
2 . The period of probation should be three months . 

[No. 25 / 11 / 68 -LR .111. ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 [PART II 
- - - - 

S . O , 2581. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Bolani Ores Limited , Post Office Barbil, District Keonjhar ( Orissa ) and their 
workmen , in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal No. 3 , Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of the services of Sri Tul Bahadur, Security 

Guard , with effect from the 12th January , 1966 by the management 
of Messrs Bolani Ores Limited , Post Office Barbil, District Keonjhar 
(Orissa ) was justified ? If not , to what relief, is he entitled ? 

[ No. 24 / 19 /68 -LRI.] 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
S . O . 2582 . — The following draft of a notifcation , which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 26 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , is hereby published 
for the intormation of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
30th August, 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person in res 
pect of said draft before the date so specified will be considered by Central 
Government. 

Draft Notification 
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (2 ) of section 26 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that , for a period of three years from the date of publication of this notification , 
the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 18 of the said Act , in so far as it re 
lates to the issue of the wage slips shall not apply to the employees of the M . E . S . 
and the Military Farms, who are on time scales of pay approved by the Central 
Government and are employed in any scheduled employment. 

[No. LWI( I) - 8 (3 ) / 80 .] 
C . R . NAIR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
S . O . 2583 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Shalimar Textile Stores , 307- 308 , Green House . Green Street, Off Bank Street. 
Fort, Bombay - 1, have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident 
Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establish 
ment. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notifcation shall be deemed to have come into force on the 3 : ct day ct 
December , 1987. 

(No. 865 / 68 -PF. II. ] 


Sec . Atij THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 3475 

--- - - - - -- - --- 
S . O . 2584 .- - Whereas the State Government of Maharashtra has in pursuance 
of clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , nominated Dr. L . D . Thatte , Deputy Director , Employees 
State Insurance Scheme, Government of Maharashtra , to be a member of the 
Medical Benefit Council in place of Dr. P . M . Bhandarkar ; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No . S . O . 2899 dated the 27th September, 1966 , namely : 


In the said notification , under the heading " [Nominated by the State Govern 
ments concerned under clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10 ] ” , for the 
ventry against item ( 11 ) , the following entry shall be substituted , namely :--- 

" Dr. L . D . Thatte , 
Deputy Director, Employees State Insurance Scheme, 
Government of Maharashtra , Bombay. !! 

[No, F . 3 ( 20 ) / 66 -HI.] 


S . O , 2585 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, 
having regard to the location of the factory , namely , the Haffkine Institute 
Farm , Pimpri (near Poona ) in an implemented area , hereby exempts the sale 
factory from the payment of the employer s special contribution lovlable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the 2nd July , 1968 , 


[ No. F .6 ( 29 ) /88 -HI. ] 


nment,thenown 
aceed that 


S . O . 2586.4Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Hiranand Vallram , 34 Fort Street, Near Red Gate , Bombay - 1, have agreed that 
the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should 
be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st day of 
December , 1967. 

[ No. 8 / 66 / 08 -PF. II. ] 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1968 
S . O . 2587. — Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that : 

( 1 ) Govt. Steam Power Station . 

( 2 ) Tanda Industrial Company. 
were situated in Sohwal area which was a sparse area (that is , an area whose insur 
able population was less than 500 ) in the district of Faizabad in the State of Uttar 
Pradesh ; 


And whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area , the aforesaid factories 
were granted exemption from the payment of the employers Special contribution 
under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 1948 ) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central 
Government in the notification of hte Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No. S . O . 2665 , dated the 2nd November, 1961; 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Sohwal area in the district of Faizabad in the State of Uttar Pradesh has 
now exceeded 500 , And It is no longer a sparge area ; 


1476 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 


(PART 11 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Imployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the sald notification namely : -- - 
In Schedule VI to the said notification under " Allahabad Division " , against 

serial No . 8 , the entry relating to Faizabad in column 3 and the corres . 
ponding entries in columns 4 and 6 shall be omitted , 

(No . F . 0 (63 ) / 68 -HI. I 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 
S . O . 2588 , - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No . S . O . 1390 , dated the 15th April, 1968, published on pages 1881 - 1882 of the 
Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) dated the 20th April, 1968 : 

In the Schedule appended to the said notification , against serial No. 7 in 
column 4 , 

For Village & P .O . Nurpur 
Read Main Road 

[NO F . 6 (3) / 68-HI.] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 12th July 1968 
S . O . 2589, - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Jamadoba Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron and Steel Company 
Limited , Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 10th July , 1968. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CUM 

LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 (1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputeg 

Act , 1947 

Reference No. 97 of 1963 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Jamodoba Colliery of M / s . Tata Iron 

and Steel Company Limited , P . O . Jealgora , (Dhanbad ). 


sus 


Their Workmen 
PRESENT 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers.- - Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate , 
For the Workmen .- Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate . 

Dhanbad , dated the 29th June 1968 

AWARD 


This is one of the batch of eight cases which have been remanded by the 
Patna High Court for hearing on merits and for disposal in accordance with law . 
In all the cases , Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate , appearing on behalf of the 
employers , took the preliminary objection that the references were invalid bc 
cause they were cases of individual and not industrial disputes . His ground was 
that the workmen concerned were not members of any union at the time of their 
dismissal. Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , who was then the Presiding Oicer of this 
Tribunal, upheld that objection and rejected all the references : 


SEC . $ (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3477 


2 . The workmen Aled Writ Applications in the Patna High Court against the : 
Awards in all the eight cascs . Civil Writ Jurisdiction Case No. 192 of 1966 was 
flled against the Award in this case . Their Lordships took up this case and 
held that the crucial date was the date of reference and that an individual dispute : 
turns into an industrial dispute if , before the date of reference , the union comes : 
into existence and the concerned workman becomes a member of that union or if 
a sufficient number of workmen sponsor the concerned workmen s cause . 

3 . In view of this principle , their Lordships held that the reference was valid . 
They , therefore , quashed the Tribunal s Award and remanded the reference to . 
this Tribunal for hearing as I have already sald . 

4 . Shri S . S . Mukherjce attempted again to raise the preliminary objection 
and to urge that the union did not come into existence and the concerned work 
man did not become its member even before the date of reference . I did not 
permit him to raise the preliminary objection because their Lordships have 
specifically held that " a union of the workers of Jamadoba Colllery had come 
into existence , the dismissed workman had become a member of the union , and 
his cause had been sponsored by the union " before 19th December 1963, the date 
on which the reference was made. 

5 . The Central Government has made this reference by its Order NO, 2 /69 / 63 
LRII , dated , 19th December 1963 , for adjudication of the dispute mentioned in . 
the schedule which is as follows: 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Tulsi, Loco Driver , of Jamadoba Colliery 

of Messrs Tata Iron & Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office 
Joalgora , ( Dhanbad ) with effect from the 7th August, 1962, was justi 

fled ? If not , to what relief is he entitled ?." 
6 . It is alleged by the employers that Tulsi, tho concerned workman way on 
duty in B shift on the 13th July , 1962 and that, due to his gross negligence, 
empty mine cars were repeatedly derailed in the 13th level with the result that 
the track and cables were damaged and the raising of coal suffered . Chargesheet. 
No . 517 / 62 , dated 14th July 1962 ( Ext. M ) was issued to him and he gave the 
reply (Ext. M 1 ) . The Enquiring Officer , Shri S . N . Pandey , Welfare Officer ( P ) , 
issued a notice ( Ext. M2) to the alleged delinquent and others , saying that enquiry 
would be held on 23rd July 1962. The enquiry appears actually to have been held 
on the 24th July , 1962 in the presence of Tulsi. 


7 . The most important witness examined against Tulsi on the 24th August, 1962 
was Shri Pichamuthu , Assistant Manager . His statement is Ext. M3. He has dealt 
with Tulsi s reply ( Ext . Ml) in which he has said that the cause of the damage 
was that the loco was old , the cables were old and the track was bud , Shri 
Pichamuthu has said that these reasons given by Tulsi cannot be accepted because 
other loco drivers used the same loco , the same cables and the same track and 
their work was far more speedy and without derailment of the mine car. IIc has : 
given the following details about the supply : - - 


Date 


Shift 


Reason 


Amount of 

Supply 


Remark t 


I. 


9 - 7 -62 


VES 


20 mine cars 
59 » » 


9 - 7 -62 
9 - 7 -62 


Tulsi was the loco 

driver , 
Another loco driyer. 

- do 
Tulsi was the loco 

driver . 
Another loco driver. 

- do 


2 . 


II - 7 -62 


36 » 


» 


SNIE 


Due to derailment 
No derailment 

- do 
Due to derailment 
No derailment 

- do 
Due to derailment 
No dorailment 

- do 


11- 7 -62 
11- 7 -62 


>> 


3. 


13 - 7 -62 


loco 


13-7-627 


Tulsi was the 

driyer . 
Another loco driver. 

- do 


13-7-62 


i 


60 , , 


62 » 


» 


- 


- - 


Vu 


3. 1978 


LIT GAZEITE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / AŞADHA 29, 1890 


[Part 11 – 


The above details show clearly that detailments took place only when Tulsi was 
on duty as loco driver and there was no derailment when other loco drivers were 
on duty . This does not bear out the defence of Tulsi that the derailment took 
place because of the loco and cable being old and the track being bad . If that 
had been correct , derailment should have taken place also when other loco drivers 
were on duty . 

8 . Tulsi s statement ( Ext. M 4 ) was recorded on the 24th July and he did 
not then add anything to what he had said in his reply ( Ext. M 1 ) . The state 
ment of Mukti ( Ext. M 5 ) was also recorded but he has not said anything use 
ful 

9 . The Enquiring Officer . Shri S . N . Pandey , has written out a well- reasoned 
report ( Ext. M 6 ) and has come to the conclusion that Tulsi was guilty or gross 
negligence of work . Accepting this opinion , Shri H . Neogi, Asstt . Chief Mining 
Engineer , has addressed a letter ( Ext. M 8 ) to Tulsi by which he has conveyed 
lits dismissal from the company s service with eflect from the 7th August , 1962 , 
Ext. M 10 is a letter dated 15th May 1982 ot the Chief Mining Engineer addressed 
to the Chief Inspector of Mines . It has been stated in that letter that Shri H . 
Neogi has been appointed Asstt. Chieť Mining Engincer and Agent for Şamadoba 
Group of Collleries. 

10 . Shri Narsingh who has appeared on behalf of the workman , has not been 
able to point out anything in the domestic enquiry which can be said to be 
against the principles of natural justice . All that he has argued is that Tulsi 
has been found guilty of misconduct under clause 19 ( 6 ) of the standing orders 
But that clause requires that he should be guilty of habitual neglect of work 
1)T* negligence . He has contended that one act of negligence cannot be held to 
be habitual negligence . In my opinion , there is no force in this contention be 
cause , according to the finding of the enquiring officer , he was guilty of negligence 
at least on three days. Tulsi s service record (Ext. M 9 ) has also been fled . 
It shows that he was punished several times for mishandling loco and for other 
offences . It can , therefore , be said in this case that Tulsi has been guilty of 
habitual negligence . Even Supposing for the sake of argument that it cannot 
be said that his negligence was habitual, his dismissal can be justified under 
clause 19 ( 9 ) under which also he was charged . That clause defines the mis 
. conduct of " causing damage to work in progress or to property of the company " . 
On the evidence , there can be no doubt that he caused damage to the company s 
property and also caused diminution in production by reason of the derallment. 

• 11 . No other point has been raised . On a consideration of all the facts of 
the case , I hold that the dismissal of Tulsi is justified . The second question 
does not, therefore arise , for consideration . This is my award . It may be sub 
mitted to the Central Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act . 

(Sd. ) KAMIA SAHAI, 

Presiding Oncer. 

(No. 2 / 69 / 63 -LRII. ] 
S . O . 2590. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award ce 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Palana Colliery, Palana ( Bikaner ) and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 9th July , 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

Dated July 2, 1968 
PRESENT : 
Sri G . C . Agarwala — Presiding Officer . 

Case Ref. No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 130 ) of 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Palana Colllery , Palana ( Bikaner ). 

Versus 
Their workman represented through the President, Palana Colliery Mazdoor 
" Union , Bikaner . 
APPEARANCES : 
For employers .-- S / Sri Manohar Kothari, Legal Adviser and N . C . Bansal. 

Mines Manager . 
For workmen. -- Dr. Jawahar Lal Ajmani, Patron & an Officer. 


INDUSTRY,Come one 


of these beena postagem para crear 


s tribuntent of disputeand Employments! 


Sic . 3 ( ii ); THE GAZETTE OR INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /AŞADHA 29, 1890 

3479 
- . - : . . . _ . = : - *** -- 

= 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine . 

DISTRICT : Bikaner (Rajasthan ). 

AWARD 
By Notification No. 5 / 35 / 13-LRII dated 19th September 1967, the Ministry of . 
Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) ; 
Government of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the : 
schedule to the order of reference to this Tribunal for adjudication 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the management of the Palana Colliery was justified in disinissing 

from service Shri Aidan , Register Clerk with effect from the 14th . 

March , 1963. If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 
2 . The Palana Colliery is owned and managed by the Government of Rajas 
than . Sri Aldan was employed in this Colliery as a Register Clerk . It is neces 
sary to give some historical background of the case of this worker. He is acti 
vely associated with the Union known as Palana Collicry Mazdoor Union . The 
services of Sri Aidan were terminated sometime in 1958 because of fraudulent 
representation that one Sri Bhana Ram was his father though actually he was 
his uncle and therefore obtained free medical facilities from the Medical Officer , 
Dr. B . L , Gupta , Incharge of Palana dispensary . In the explanation furnished 
by the opposite party dated 16th July 1958 he used insolent and objectionable : 
language. This was also taken into account in terminating his services . Since : 
there was an industrial dispute pending the management obtained approval of 
the action under Sec . 33 ( 2 ) (b ) I. D . Act from the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, on ! 
14th April, 1959 . The Union raised an industrial dispute and a reference was 
made to the sald Tribunal which was I. D . 205 of 1960 . The same Presiding 
Omcer by his award dated 21st April 1961 held that as he was acquitted by Criml 
nal Court , he having been prosecuted for fraud and cheating and no proper 
enquiry was held , the termination of services of Sri Aidan was set aside and he 
was awarded three months back wages . The insolent and objectionable language 
used in the explanation was not taken into account as the same was not the 
subject of the charge . After the publication of the award the Conciliation omcer 
seems to have pressed the management to reinstate Sri Aidan and the manage 
ment ultimately by an order dated 26th June 1961 reinstated him , A copy of 
the reinstatement order and the award of the Industrial Tribunal as also & certi 
fied copy of the order of approval under Sec , 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) I. D . Act were filled by 
the management as enclosures to the written arguments and from which the facts 
stated above have been extracted . 


3 . After Sri Aidan was reinstated in 1961, he seems to have worked for only 
a few months and then went home from where he had been sending applications 
on one ground or the other for leave. He was absent from 13th December 1961 
till he reported on 12th February 1963. The various periods for which he was on 
leave and the reasons mentioned therein are stated in the charge - sheet dated 
2 / 4th March , 1963 ( Ex . E / 27) in consequence of which he was dismissed and 
which would be reproduced at an appropriate stage. Suffice shall it be to state 
here that the management received leave applications Ex . E / 1 to E / 14 , the last 
being supported by a Medical Certificate of a Vaidys Ex , E / 15 and E / 15 . Mean 
while the management recelved communications from a rival Union , the Bikaner 
Division Trade Union Council, that Sri Aidan was not at all {11 but had beeir 
elected as Panch in his village Panchayat, Nohar, and he will fully absented from 
duty . on bogus grounds and certificates. The management got suspicious about 
it and by a communication dated 31st December 1962 directed Sri Aidan to appear 
hefore the Principal, Medical and Health Officer , Government of Rajasthan , 
Ganganagar on 10th January, 1963 (Ex. E / 17 ) . A copy of this was endorsed to 
the Medical Omcer. Sri Aldan on receipt of this communication sent a letter 
dated 8th January 1983 (Ex. E / 19 ) to the Manager , Palana Colliery , stating that 
he was unfit to under -take a journey to Ganganagar and appear for medical 
examination . The Manager thereupon by communication dated 30th January 
1963 (Ex . E / 20 ) directed that in care he was not At to undertake journey , he 
should appear for medical examination on 10th February , 1983. Copy of this 
was endorsed to the Collector, Ganganagar , so as to ascertain the position about 
the Panchayat Samity and his attendance and also to Superintendent of Police, 
Ganganagar, requesting him to post a Șentry for watch at the house of Sri Aidan 
on 10th February , 1963. Having been cornered to this position Sri Aidan came 
to Palana and by means of an application dated 12th February 1963 ( Ex . E / 22 ) 
along with fitness certificate of the Vaidya ( Ex . E / 21) wanted to resume duty. . 


3480 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


It may be mentioned that all previous leave applications and even this applica 
tion to be permitted to resume duty was sent through Union to the management. 
" The Mines Manager by letter dated 18th February 1963 ( Ex . E / 33 ) directed the 
Medical Officer to examine Sri Aldan who had been on leave for a year and a hall 
( 15 year ) and to issue a Atness certificate or otherwise . Sri Aidan did not appear 
and the Medical Oncer reported about it on 21st February 1983 ( Ex . E / 25 ) . The 
management on this , by communication dated 21st February 1983 (Ex . E / 24 ) 
warned him that he should appear for medical examination before the Medical 
Officer . Sri Aidan protested against the order of the management for medical 
examination by communication dated 20th February 1963 (Ex , W / 7 ) and again by 
letter dated 25th February 1963 (Ex . W / 9 ). When Sri Aldan did not comply 
with the order for medical examination by the Colliery Doctor at Palana, the 
management charge - sheeted Sri Aldan by charge - sheet dated 2 / 4th March , 1963 
( Ex . E / 27 - Ex . W / 10 ) . It would be material to reproduce the charge -sheet which 
runs as follows: 

Charge Sheet 
" The following acts prejudicial to good conduct and subversive of discipline 
have been committed by you : 

( 1 ) Except from 24th August 1962_ to 14th September 1962 you have applied for 
leave continuously from 13th December 1961 in the following manner : 


InS 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


Period 


Reason 


to 


From 13 - 12 -61 

14 - 1 -62 
II - 3 -62 
II- 5 -62 
23- 6 - 62 
24 - 7 -62 
15 - 9 -62 . 
16 - 10 -62 
16 - 11 - 62 
1 - 12 -62 


13 - 1 -62 
10 - 3 -62 
Io - 5 - 62 
22 - 6 -62 
23- 7 -62 
23 - 8 -62 
IS 10 -62 
15 - 11 -62 
30 - 11 -62 
date of recoyery 


Urgent work 
Urgent work 
Death of uncle 
Urgent work 
Ill health 
Ill health 
Sickness of wife 
Domestic work 
Ill health 
ill health 


You were asked to appear before the Principal Medical & Health Officer , Ganga 
nagar on 10th January 1963 for medical examination but you intimated that you 
"Were so seriously 111 that could not move for the desired medical examination . 
Again you were required to appear before the P . M . H . O ., Ganganager on 10th 
February 1963 and if serious should inform the P . M . H . O . by 5th February 1963 
who would arrange medical examination at your home. 

You did not inform the P . M H . O ., Ganganager about your condition and as 
per report received in this office you were also not at home on 10th February 1963. 
- You have deliberately attempted towards evasion of medical examination re 
quired by this office . You have submitted a health certificate of Sanjiwani 
Ausdhalaya signed by Shri Baru Ram Shastri on behalf of Vidya Data Ram dated 
9th February 1963 alongwith your application endorsed under No. PCMU / P394 /63 
dated 13th February 1963 by the Union . 

The health certificate produced by you could not be accepted by this office 
and you were required to appear before the Medical Oncer Palạna Dispensary , 
" Palana for fitness certificate or otherwise . You refused to do it. Once again 
you were advised vide this office letter No. MMP / 62-63 / 9282 dated 21st February 
1963 to appear before the said medical authority to save yourself from wilful 
Authorised absence and wilful disobedience . 

You have not complied with and this is another attempt to evade your medical 
examination besides committing the act of unauthorised wilful absence and wilful 
disobedience. 

You have also absented yourself from 24th August 1962 to 14th September 
1962 without any leave application . 

( 2 ) There is a complaint that you were actually not sick and were in em 
ployment elsewhere which tantamounts that reasons for leave produced by you 
(with a few exceptions) were false. 


= = = 


Suc . 8 (1:)] THE GAZETTE Or INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /AŞADHA 29, 1890 2481 

= 

- - - - = = - = = = = = = = = 
( 3 ) The rent- free Government accommodation provided to you for your resi 
Cential purpose have been allowed to be occupied by another party without permis 
sion of this office which is misuse of the Government property and you have com 
missioned to that . 


( 4 ) The perusal of paragraphe 5 (kh ) and ( 8 ) of your letter No . 1 dated 
16th July 1958 addressed to this office is sufficient to lead that you are unfit to 
continue in service. This letter is full of insolence impertinence and defiance of 
authority. It also reaches the limit of personal vituperation . The manager 
iis accused of being dishonest and being a traitor to Government and an offender . 
No management can put up such conduct on the part of the employee. The fact 
of being a member of the Union did not give you the right to indulge in highly 
robjectionable remarks. You are , therefore , guilty of grave indiscipline, contempt 
of rule and disrespect of authority and general affronts to the management which 
amounts to gross -misconduct. 

The aforesaid acts are prejudicial to good conduct subversive of discipline and 
amounts to gross misconduct under Clause 14 ( 1 ) , 14 ( 2 ) , 14 ( 4 ), 14 ( 7 ) , 14 ( 14 ), 
14 ( 16 ) , 14 (19 ) and 14 ( 20 ) of the Standing Orders of the Colliery and would 
warrant your dismissal. 

You are hereby required to show cause within 2 days of receipt of it as to 
why you should not be dismissed from service if you do not submit your explana 
ition as asked for , the management will take the necessary action without any 
further reference to you on the presumption that you have no defence to offer 
against the charges of gross misconduct against you . 

As the charges levelled against you are of grave and serious nature , you would 
have been suspended had you been on duty for four days ." 
Şri Aidan şubmitted explanations dated 5th March 1967 (Ex. W ; 11 ) challenging 
the right of the management to subject him to medical examination before allow 
Ing him to resume duty . For the period of absence from 24th August 1962 to 
14th September 1962 It was contended that he had applied for leavę and which 
had been sanctioned . For charges no . 2 and 3 . there was simple denial, For 
Charge no. 4 , it was stated that the charge itself is a proof of the mala fides of the 
management. The management by letter dated 6th March , 1963 ( Ex . W / 12 ) found 
the explanation unsatisfactory and appointed Sri G . N . Pancholi, Senior Overman , 
to hold an enquiry Axing 9th March 1963 as the date of enquiry. Sri Aidan at 
once protested against this appointment by letter (Ex . W / 13 ) dated 6th March 1953, 
The objection was overruled by letter dated 8th March 1963 ( Ex . W / 14 ) and 
signed by Sri G . N . Pancholl as Acting Mines Manager himself. Sri Aidan again 
protested by another letter dated 8th March 1963 ( Ex . W / 15 ) and submitted his 
written statement dated 9th March 1963 ( Ex . W / 10 ) . The Union also addressed 
a communication to the management dated 9th March 1963 ( Ex . W / 17 ) on the 
subject. The Mines Manager, Sri R . Bhadada by communication dated the 12th 
March 1963 referred to the letter of Sri Aidan dated 8th March 1963 and 
his written statement dated 9th March 1963 and overruled the objection against 
the appointment of the Enquiry Officer. Sri Aldan was advised to appear before 
the Enquiry Ofcer and participate in the enquiry on 14th March 1963 (Ex . W / 8 ). 
Sri Aidan , however , gain protested by letter dated 13th March , 1963 (Ex . W / 19 ) 
and did not participate in enquiry . Sri Pancholi, therefore , conducted ex parte 
enquiry on 14th March 1963. No witnesses of the management were examine and 
by an examination of the documents which were before him , he recorded his 
findings on the same date (Ex . E / 30 ) and the Mines Manager , Sri Bhadada , Also 
passed an order of dismissal on the same date as endorsed on the back of the find 
ing . The dismissal order was also communicated by a letter on the same date 
( Ex . E / 31-) . " The Union took up the dispute which in due course resulted in this 
reference . 


4 . After the parties Aled their pleadings certain additional issues were framed 
In the case on 24th February , 1968. The issues which are reproduced below will 
show the points in controversy : 


Addl. Issues . 
1 . Whether Shri Aldan absented without proper leave? 
2 . Whether a proper domestic enquiry in accordance with Standing Orders 

and principles of natural justice was held ? 
3 . Was he guilty of misconduct for which he had been dismissed ? 


= 


= 


3482 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 [PART II 

-- - — .. . ".. . - - 
Findings : 

Issue No. 1. - As the charge- sheet would show the only disputed period for which 
the employers alleged that there was no leave application is the period 24 - 8 -62 to 
14- 9 -62. For the rest , the receipt of applications for different periods is not denied . 
The issue , therefore , is confined to the period in question , namely 24 - 8 -62 to 14 - 9 
1962. For all other periods it cannot be said that there was no application or 
any application had been rejected . 

It appears that Sri Aidan must have submitted application for this period 14 -8 -62 
to 14 - 9 - 1962 also as he had been doing for all other periods before and after this 
period . It is significant to find that the management at no stage Intimated to 
Şri Aldan that he had absented without any leave application for this period . 
As a matter of fact, when subsequent applications from 15 - 9 - 1962 were recelved , 
the management should have intimated and required the workman to explain 
about his absence without leave application for the period 24 - 8 -62 to 14 - 9 - 1962 . 
A Peon Book of the Union had been Aled as Ex . W / 2 which shows that a number 
of letters were sent to the Mines Manager , Palana Colliery , Palana , on 25 - 8 - 1962. 
and they were duly received . It is contended that the application of Sri Aldan 
for leave copy Ex . W / 1 was also among the communications . From the circums 
tances of the case , therefore , it appears that there was an application for the 
period in question and Sri Aidan had not absented without a proper application . 
: Issue No. 2 . — The first objection against the enquiry was contended to be that 
It was held by a Senior Overman , Sri B . N . Pancholl, who played as a tool in the 
hands of the Mines Manager . Sri Pancholi appears to be a senior man in the 
Colliery and as stated by him , officiates as Mines Manager in his absence. There 
could be no objection to his appointment as Enquiry Officer and the objection of 
Sri Aidan in this respect was clearly untenable . At the same time, the enquiry 
held by Sri lancholi is far from a bonafide and a fair enquiry . It is vitiated on 
more than one grounds. In communication dated 6 - 3 - 1963 (Ex . W / 12 ) the Manager 
intimated thet in case the worker failed to attend the enquiry in person or falled 
to submit a written statement the enquiry would be conducted er parte . Sri 
Pancholi himself while writing as Acting Mines Manager by letter dated 8 - 3 - 1963. 
(Ex . W ./ 14 ) also warned the worker that in case he failed to attend in person or 
failed to subunit a written statement along with papers it shall be deemed that he 
did not want to participate in the enquiry. Sri Aidan had filed a written state 
ment in Hindi dated 5 - 3 - 1963 ( Ex . W / 11 ) and another one in English dated 
9 - 3 - 1063 (Ex . W / 16 ). Thus he had fulAlled one of the two conditions and the 
enquiry could not be concluded by the Enquiry officer on this date . Sri Pancholi : 
should have adjourned the enquiry to another date as Sri Aidan had Aled two 
written statements . If the Enquiry Officer as required by Clause 15 of the Standing 
Orders had Axed a date for enquiry it is possible that the worker would have 
participated in the enquiry as by no communication he had intimated that he 
would not participate in the enquiry . 

Over and above this , the finding of the Enquiry Officer is not based on evidence . 
No witness of the management was examined and in his Anding he has not stated 
by ghich documents any particular part of the charge was proved . He admitted 
in his statement that he did not mention in his report which papers were Alled by 
management He stated that he had simply seen them and did not exactly re 
member what documents were originally produced before him . He tried to re 
collect and pointed out a few documents but not all . In his enquiry report it is 
not stated by which documents or circumstances any particular fact was proved . 
As a matter of fact, it appears that he imported personal knowledge . After con 
cludin . the enquiry on the same date it is intriguing to find that the Anding was 
also typed out on the same date . All this shows that the enquiry was not con 
ducted fairly . The findings recorded by him are wholesale in respect of all the 
charges , for some of which evidently there was no evidence . It must, therefore , 
be held that no proper domestic enquiry in accordance with the Standing Order s 
and conforming to principles of natural Justice was held . 

Issue No 3 . - There are four charges on the basis of which Sri Aidan had 
been dismissed . Charge No. 3 which relates to rent- free Government accommoda 
tion having been allowed for another purpose and to another party without per 
mission is not proved by any evidence whatsoever and must therefore fail. Charge 
No . 4 also must fail because letter dated 15 July 1958 has not been produced before 
this Tribunal to show the objectionable language . Evidently this part of the 
charge has been raked up after Sri Aidan had been reinstated as a result of an 
award in his favour in case No. 1 . D . 205 / 1960 wherein it was held that the 
objectionable language cannot be considered in the matter of punishment as the 
same was not the subject of charge . This charge also falls not having been proved 


Src. 3(11) 


THE GAZETTĘ OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 /ASADIIA 29, 1890 


3.183 


. 


- . - - 


964 


Charges No . 1 & 2 , however , are material and parts of which are undoubtedly such 
which stand proved so as to justify the punishment. Sri Aidan right from 
13th December 1961 till 12th February 1963 had been taking leave on ong pretext 
or the other and which shows that there were no bonafide grounds or necessity . The 
management produced a report of Panchayat Adhikari, Panchayat Samity , Nohar 
( Ex . E / 26 ) which was proved by evidence of Sri Bhagwan Das, Vikas Adhikari , 
who brought the relevant supporting documents . From that it would appear that 
Sri Aidan had attended numerous meetings of Panchayat Samity from December , 
1961 to March , 1963. They are as follows: 
21 - 12 -61 

30 - 4 -62 

21 - 11 -62 
22 - 1 -62 

21- 5 -62 

21 - 12 -62 
28 - 2 -62 

21- 6 -62 

21- 1 -63 
12 - 3 -62 

23- 7 - 62 
20 - 4 -62 

21 - 8 -62 

21- 3 - 63 
21- 4 - 62 

22- 10 -02 
Not only this, he presided meeting of Standing Committees social services & edu 
cation on the following dates as mentioned in Ex . E / 26 . 
15 - 12 -61 

22 - 8 -62 

7 - 12 -62 
30 - 12 -61 

22 - 9 -62 

22 - 12 -62 
30 - 1 -62 

22 - 10 -62 

22 - 1 -63 
6 - 7 -62 

I - II -62 
He also attended the Administration & financial standing committee meetings 
dated 20th December 1961 and 6th January 1962. Sri Aldan himself failed to come 
in evidence so os to explain the conduct. It is evident that he has been taking 
leave on false grounds and was really not ill when he applied for extension of leave 
from 16th November 1962 onwards. That was why he did not go for redical 
examination before the Principal Medical & Health OMcer , Ganganagar and when 
cornered about it , he had to come and report for resumption of duty from 12th 
February 1963. So far so for charge No. 2 which stands proved in the context of 
the facts stated in charge No . 1. As for Charge No. 1 which is a narration of events . 
the main charge appears to be that he did not comply with the order to appear for 
medical examination before the Medical Officer Palana Dispensary , Palana as was 
required by the management. On behalf of Sri Aidan it is contended that there 
is no provision in the Standing Orders and he was not bound to submit to medical 
examination and furnish Atness certificate . Reliance is placed on an observation 
in a case of this very Colliery, Ref. No. I. D . 216 of 1961 decided by Sri P . D . Vyas, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi on 21- 8 -1962 and published at pago 
3060 and onwards of Gazette of India , Part II Sec . 3 ( 1!) . The question Arnge 
whether the management could insist on production of fitness certificate before 
allowing resumption of duty . It was observed in paragraph 13 and 15 that since 
there was no provision in the Standing Orders , the management could not insist 
on production of Atness certificate . Each case is decided on the facts peculiar to 
that case . It is true that there is no provision in the Standing Orders one way 
or the other that on return from leave on health grounds a worker has or has not 
to produce the Atness certificate . But in every case a reasonable view will have 
to be taken . As an abstract proportion it may be correct that the management is 
not entitled to require a fitness certificate but when a worker has been on long 
leave on different grounds and had refused to appear before the Principal Medical 
& Health Officer Ganganagar. for medical examination to sunport his illness and 
when the illness claimed was Dermititis , the management was justified in requiring 
the worker to appear before the Colliery Doctor so as to find out the state of his 
health It may not be so as to require him to produce a fitness certificate but to 
test his part assertions about illness and the disease mentioned by him . It was 
a reasonable order on the part of the management, disobedience of which justifed 
the dismissal. Sri Aidan was not at all justified in disobeving the order of the 
management. He is , therefore , found guilty to have Absented from duty on falsa 
ond flimsy grounds and further to have disobeved a reasonable order of the man 
agement. These are covered by Clause 14 ( 1 ) wilful insubordination or disobedience 
of a lawful or reasonable order ) as also under sub - clause ( 4 ) for habitual absence 
without sufficient cause . 
Decision : 

The result is that the management was justifed in dismissing to Sri Aidan 
He is not entitled to any relief . No order for costs . 

Sd . / - G . C . AGARWALA . 
Presiding omcer. 

2 - 7 - 1968 . 
INO. 5 /35 /63- LRII.) 


3184 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 
S . O . 2591,- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Albion Colliery of Messrs Albion Collicry Company , Post 
Office Karmatand Via Mohuda , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters speci . 
fied in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers ic desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1) of 
section to of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the CentralGovernment hereby refers 
the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the management of Albion Colliery of Messrs Albion Colliery Company , Post Office 
Karmatand Via Mohuda, District Dhanbad was justified in stopping the following 42 workmen A 
Seam Quarry , from work with effect from the 1st December , 1967 ? 


Name of the workmen 


Designation 


Si. 
No. 


Quarry Pick Miner. 

Do. 


iantrodoság 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


DO . 


Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


I . Chulu Das 
2 . Manbodh Sahu 

Pani Ram Rout 
4 . Jiwan Rout 

Mohan Sahu 
Bhalya Ram 

Jag Rakhan 
8 . Nani Sahu 

Ishwar Gir 
10 . Kariya Kewat . 
II. Thukal Sabu 
12 , Hulu Sahu 
13 , Mathura Dusad 
14 . Samru Das 
IS . Ramcharan Satnami 
16 . Paltan Gope 

Budhram Sahu 
18 . Itwari Rajwar 
19 . Kholbahar Dhobi 
20 . Mekara Sahu 
21. Mekhan Şahu . 

Man Rakhan 
Somaru Sahu 
Sonai Bai 
Keja Bai 
Juga Bai 
Ganga Bai 

Basmati Bai 
29 . Hira Bai 

Ghasnin Bai 
31. Bhajanmoti Bai 
32 . 

Ram Kunwari Bai 
33 . Radha Bai 

Ralma: Bai 
Lalia Bai 
Krishna Bai 
Raj Kumari Bai 

Dukal Hin Bai . 
39 . Sipatia Bai 
40. Jambati Bai 
41. Khedia Bai 
42 . Bari Hin Bui 


Do. 
Loader . 
Do . 


Do. 


AARAAAAAAAAAA 


34 . 


36 . 
37. 


38. 


Do. 


If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


[ No. 2 /93 /68 - LRII, ] 


Sec .30 


VIE 


Sko . 8 (0 ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29 , 1890 3485 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. - - . - . - - -- - " . 

New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
S . O . 2592. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists betwcen the employers in relation to the Katras Choitudih Colliery . 
Post Office Malkera , District Dhanbad of Messrs Burraker Coal Company Limited 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specifled in the Schedule hereto an 
nexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Katras Choitudih Colliery , Post Once Malkera , 

District Dhanbad of Messrs Burraker Coal Company Limited of 
which Messrs Bird and Company ( Private ) Limited , Post Omce Sijua , 
District Dhanbad , are the Managing Agents , was justified in refusing 
employment at the Katras Choitudih Colliery to the following work . 

men : 
1 . Shri Musafir Sao . 
2 . Shri Bifan Pasi. 
3 . Shri Kedar Giri. 
4 . Shri Sampat Dubcy . 
5 . Shri Ramlakhan Dusadh , 
6 . Shri Kameshwar Dusadh . 
7 . Shri Jaipat Duşadh . 
8 . Shri Judagir Gope . 
9 . Shri Munghi Mahato . 
10 . Shri Ramdeo Sao . 
11 . Shri Badhan Bhuia . 
12 . Shri Bihari Dusadh . 
13. Shri Zafaralli Mian . 
14 . Shri Puna Gope . 
15 . Shri Brahmdeo Gope . 
16 . Shri Amrit Dusadh . 
17 . Shri Manu Mochi, 
18 . Shri Ganouri Ramani. 
19 . Shri Saklu Mahato . 
20 . Shri Ramachandra Mochi, 
21. Shri Sukhdeo Dhobi. 
22 . Shri Chhotan Giri , 
23 . Shri Karoo Dusadh . 
24. Shri Lila Mahato . 
26. Shri Sital Dhobi. 
26 . Shri Keshwar Mahato . 
27. Shri Chhota Karoo Sun , 
28 . Shri Bali Telli. 
29. Shri Bihari Ram . 
30. Shri Bara Karu Sao . 
31. Shri Bifan Bhuian , 
32. Shri Musafir Mahato . 
33. Shri Rampati Singh . 
34 . Shri Rampati Dusadh . 
35 . Shri Manik Chand Mshato , 
36 . Shri Srichand Mahato . 
37. Shri Jodhan Mahato . 
38 . Shri Rampati Pasi. 
39. Shri Pyare Lal Kewat. 
40 . Shri Mathura Mahato . 
41 . Shri Bachu Ram Mahato 
42. Shri Syambarilal Pasi . 
43. Shri Deba Rajwar, 
44 . Shri Gorakh Mochi. 
45 . Shri Sagram Rajwar. 
46 . Shri Saligram Mahato . 
47. Shri Jagdeo Dusadh . 


3486 


[PART 11-- 
= = = 


- - - 


I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ ASADHA 29, 1890 
- - - - -- - - - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - 

- - - -- -- --- -- 
48. Shri Sitaram Dusadh . 
49 . Shri Ramchandra Bhuian 
50 . Shri Sagina Dusadh 
51. Shri Charitar Mahato . 
52. Shri Bara Sheonandan Dusadki. 
53. Shri Chhota Kameshwar Dusadh . 
54, Shri Jallluddin . 
55 . Shri Jagdish Mahato . 
50 . Shri Ball Dusadh . 
57. Shri Basant Ram . 
58 . Shri Jogesar Mahato . 
59 . Shri Chaneshwar Dusadh , 
60 . Shri Deolal Mahatc . 
61. Shri Sita Saran Şao. 
62 . Shri Rampati Sao. 
63. Shri Prabhu Dusadh . 
64 . Shri Gangu Bhuvan . 
65. Shri Karoo Bhuian , 
66 . Shri Raghunandan Bhuian . 
67. Shri Kuleshwar Pasi. 
88. Shri Ramdas Mochi. 
69 . Shri Ghooj Mahato. 
70 . Shri Mangar Mahato . No. III, 
71. Shri Nageshwar Bhulan . 
72. Shri Desai Bhuian . 
73. Shri Dasrath Bhulan . 
24 , Shri Chhota Kunjan Bhuian . 
73 . Shri Bara Kunjan Bhulan , 
78. Shri Teju Bhuian . 
77. Shri Ch . Kargo Bhuian). 
78 . Shri Sanichar Bhulan , 
79. Shri Baleshwar Bhujan . 
80. Shri Etwari Bhulan . 
81. Shri Bhagloo Bhujan . 
82. Shri Rajdeo Bhulan . 
83. Shri Deba Bhuian . 
84 . Shri Ganaouri Bhulan . 
85 . Shri Khelu Bhulan 
86 . Shri Balo Bhuian . 
87 . Shri Nankeshw .ir Muchi. 
88 . Shri Sheo Narain Sharma. 
89. Shri Mangar Bhulan . 
90 . Shri Mahungoo Sao . 
91. Shri Jugal Ramani, 
92. Shri Rojan Ram . 
93 . Shri Gurucharan Dusadh . 
94 . Shri Dinanath Dusadh , 
95 . Shri Tribeni Mahato . 
96 . Shri Nijammuddin Mian . 
97. Shri Dukhan Bhulan , 
98 . Shri Madhy Rajwar . 
99 . Shri Bara Munshi Mahato . 
100 . Shri Balgovind Mahato . 
101 , Shri Baleshwar Dusadh . 
102 . Shrl Tanu Bhuian , 
103 . Shri Nathu Pasi. 
104. Shri Bara Jagdish Dusadh . 
105. Shri Ram Pyare Dusadh , 
106 . Shri Ramratan Mahato . 
107. Shri Ram Pradip Mahato . 
108 . Shri Baleshwar Mahato . 
109. Shri Sidhari Dusadh . 
110 . Shri Balgovind Dusadh , 
111 , Shri Lakhi Mahato , 
112 . Shri Bara Ramdeo Dusadh . 
113 , Shri Ramdhani Bhuian . 
114 . Shri Charitar Dusadh . 
115 . Shri Babuchand Dusadh . 
116 . Shri Sohar Dusadh . 
117. Shri Bandhu Bhulan , 


-- 


- 


- 


LI - I - - 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ ASADHA 29 , 1890 3487 

- - - T - : -- 
118 . Shri Dwarika Dusadh . 
119 . Shri Chhota Shyamlal. 
120 . Shri Bali Teli. 
121 . Shri Bhagan Bhulan . 
122 . Shri Raghu Bhuian . 
123 . Shri Shyamlal Bhuian . 
124 . Shri Madan Bhulan . 
125 . Shri Mangar Bhuian . 
126 . shri Madho Bhuian . 
127 . Shri Karu Saw . 
128 . Shri Pradip Mahato . 
129. Shri Sadhu Mahato . 
130 . Shri Mukhlal Duşadh . 
131. Shri Bartu Bhulan . 
132 . Shri Gobardhan Rabidas . 
133 . Shri Karu Rabidas. 
134 . Shri Bara Faguni Bhuian . 
If not, to what relief are these workmen cntitled ? 

[No. 2 /62 / 68 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1968 


S . 0 .2693 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Rana Colliery 
of Messrs Lodna Coal Company ( 1920 ) Limited , Post Onice Kalipahari, District 
Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It clesirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , tlierefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of scction 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under Section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Rana Colllery of Messrs Lodna Coal 

Company ( 1920 ) Limited , Post Office Kalipahari , District Burdwan , in 
treating Sarvashri T . P . Chattoraj and T . P . Prasad as Shale -Pickers 
instead of Assistant Loading Clerks is justified ? If not, to what relief 
are they entitled and from what date ? 

[No. 8 / 43/ 68 -LRII. ] 


S . O . 2894 .-_ Whereas the Central Government is of opinion thut an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Victoria West Colliery of 
Messrs Bengal Coal Company, Post Office Dishergarh , District Burdwan and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specifled in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Goy 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the demand of the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), Asansol for 

payment of 150 per cent of the normal wages for work on Sunday to 
the Casual Wagon loaders of the Victoria West Colliery with effect 

from the 15th August, 1967 is justified ? 
2. If not, to what relief are the said casual wagon loaders entitled ? 

[No. 6 / 20 / 68 -LRII. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


3.188 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968/ AŞADHA 29, 1890 


[Part 11 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th July 1968 
S . O . 2898.- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 83 
of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
No . S . O . 291, dated the 9th January, 1968, the Central Government hereby authorises 
the Chief Inspector of Mincs to exempt for a further period upto the 31st Decem 
ber , 1968, any mine from the operation of clauses ( 3 ) and (37) of regulation 2 
of the Metalliferous Mines Regulations, 1961, in so far as such clauses provide 
that an Assistant Manager or Underground Manager, as the case may be, should 
possess a Manager s Certificate , if the Chief Inspector is of opinion that the con 
ditions in such mine are such as to render compliance with such provisions un 
necessary or impracticable . 

[No. 1/ 17 / 68 -MI.] 


S . O . 2596 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by regulation 186 of the Metalli 
ferous Mines Regulations, 1961, the Central Government hereby notifies the 1st of 
January , 1969 , as the date on which the provisions of the said Regulations specified 
in column ( 1 ) of the Table below shall come into force in respect of the mines 
specified in the corresponding entry in column ( 2 ) of the said Table : - - 


TABLE 


: 


( 1 ) 


All the metalliferous mines to which 
the said Regulations apply . 


1. Regulation 32, the remaining pro 

visions of regulations 34 , 35 , 37 and 
38 which have not been brought 
into force so far and regulations 

160 ( 2 ), 176 ( 2 ) and 185 . 
2. Regulation 78 (1 ), 


All the metalliferous mines other than 
the gold mines 


[No. 1 / 17 / 68 -MI.] 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1968 
S . O . 2597 . - Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commission 
ers , Calcutta and their workmen represented by the Calcutta Port Shramik Union , 
Calcutta have jointly applied to the Central Government for reference of an 
Industrial dispute that exists between them to an Industrial Tribunal în respect 
of the matter set forth in the said application and reproduced in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying re 
present the majority of each party . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powerg conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , con 
stituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the demand of the Union that all the members of the crew should be 
paid overtime and not on individual basis if there is any work during recess hours 
and If overtime is given on individual basis then those of them who are not given 
overtime should be permitted to leave the vessel is justifled ? If so , what should 
be the reliet ? 

[No. 28 / 50 / 68 -LR .III. ] 


Sec . 3 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1968 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


, 1090 


3489 


S . O . 2598 . - Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commis 
sioners, Calcutta and their workmen represented by the National Union of Water 
front Workers, Calcutta have jointly applied to the Central Government for refer 
ence of an industrial dispute that exists between them to an Industrial Tribunal 
in respect of the matters set forth in the said application and reproduced in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas , the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party , 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of 
section 10 of the Industria ! Dispute . Act, 1947 (34 of 1947), the Central Govern 
ment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the demand of the engine drivers of certain vessels for providing them 
relief to enable them to come out of the engine rooms during duty hours is 
justified ? If so , what should be the relief ? 

[No. 28 (47 )/ 68 -LR III .] 


S . O . 2599 ,- Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commis 
sioners , Calcutte and their workmen represented by the Calcutta Port Shramik 
Union , Calcutta have jointly applied to the Central Government for reference of 
an industrial dispute that exists between them to an Industrial Tribunal in 
respect of the matter set forth in the said application and reproduced in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947). the Central Government here . 
by refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the claim for promotion of Shri Batukeswar Banerjee. Tindal, Crane Ves 
sel to the post of Crane Driver of Cranc Vessel on and from the 21st March , 1964 
was justified ? If so , what should be the relief? 

[ No. 28 /51 /68-LR . JII.] 


New Delhi, the 10th July 1968 


S . O . 2600 . — Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commis 
sioners , Calcutta and their workmen represented by the Calcutta Port Shramik 
Union , Calcutta have jointly applied to the Central Government for reference 
of an industrial dispute that exists between them to an Industrial Tribunal in 
respect of the matter set forth in the said application and reproduced in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party ; 

Now , therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 
Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEUDLE 
Whether the demand of the staff attached to the Commissioners Hospitals for 
grant of turn of duty off during change - over from night shift to afternoon shift 
and also from afternoon shift to night shift, is justfied ? If so , what should be 
the relier . 

[No. 28 /53 /68 -LR.III.] 


3490 


HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


[PART II 


FILIP 


New Delhi, the 11th July 1968 
S . O . 2601.- - Whereas the Industrial Disputes specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed are pending before the Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal, Kozhikode, 
constituted under section 7A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; 

And whereas for the cnds of Justice and convenience of parties, the said 
disputes should he disposed of without further delay ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) of 
section 33B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby withdraws the proceedings in relation to the said disputes from the 
Industrial Tribunal, Kozhikode: and transfers the same to the Industrial Tribunal , 
Bombay constituted under section 7A of the said Act and directs that the said 
Tribunal shall proceed with the disputes de novo and dispose of the same accord 
ing to law . 

SCHEDULE 


- . - 


. 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- - - - 


. 


- ... — 


Si, No. 


Parties to the dispute 


No. and date 
of reference to 
the Industrial 
Tribunal. 


S . O . No, of 
Gazette and 

year of public 
cation . 

- .- .-. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


1. Cochin Dock Labour Board and ) 

their worknen . 
2 . United Stevedores Association of 

Cochin ( Private ) Limited Cochin 
and 6 others. 


28 ted (672 LB .March , 1963. 


28 / 101 /67 -LR . III 
dated the is . March , 1963 . 


901/1968 


3 . Malabar Group of Shipping ) 

Companies comprising of ( 1 ) Ma- 1 
labar Steamship Company Limi- } 
ted , Cochin ( 2 ) M / S . New Dho - 1 
Jera Stcamships Ltd . , Cochin 
(3 ) The National Steamship Com 
piny, Limited , Cochin (4 ) Messrs . 
New Dholera Shipping and Tra 
ding Company, Limited . Cochin . 


28 /86 /65 - LR . IV 
dated 1st March , 1968 . 


902/ 1968 . 


Malabar Group of Shipping Com - I 
panies comprising of ( 1:) Malabar 
Steamship Company Limited , 
Cochin (2 ) M /S , New Dholera 
Steamships Limited , Cochin 
( 3 ) The National Steamshid Com 
pany, Limited , Cochin ( 4 ) Messts, 
New Dholera Shipping and Tra 
ding Company , Limited , Cochin . ) 


- 


- 


- 


[No. 28 / 101 / 07 -LR - III . ] 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1968 
S . O . 2602 . — Whereas the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commission 
ers , Calcutta and their workmen represented by the Calcutta Port Shramik Union 
Calcutta have jointly applied to the Central Government for reference of an indus 
trial dispute that exists between them to an Industrial Tribunal in respect of the 
matter set forth in the said application and reproduced in the Schedule hereto an 
nexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad . con 
stituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


pc $ ( 11 ] 


‘IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29, 1890 


3491 


. . 


. 


. 


- 


- - 


. 


- 


SVS 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


-- 


- - - - - 
- - - 

O 


- -S 


SCHEDULE 
Whether in the context of an assurance stated to have been given by the 

Port Administration to the Calcutta Port Shramik Union regarding 
service conditions of the crew of the Commissioners . Pligt : Vessels 
" Sagar" and " Samudra " . the Port Commissioners were fugtifled . In 

prescribing the following working hours for the above crew . pamely : - - 
(1) From 6 AM . to 4 P. M . (with recesses from 8AM to 10 A .M . and 1 P.M . 

to 2 P . M .) on week days . 
( li) From 8 AM to 1 P .M . (with recess from 9 A .M . to 10 A .M .) on Saturdays. 
(Ili ) From 6 A.M . to 9 AM on Sundays. 
If not, what relief should be provided ? 

[No. 28 (52) / 88-LR -III . ] 


S . O . 2603 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs M . L . 
Banerjee and Sons, Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters specifled 
in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by claugę ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Gov 
ernment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the following demands of the Table staff employed by Messrs M . L . 

Benertee and Sons, Calcutta are justified ? If so, at what rate and in 

what manner ? 
( 1 ) Grant of pay scale of Rs. 350 - 15 - 425 - 20 - 625 
( 2 ) Dearness Allowance on the basis of cost of living index . 
( 3) Provident Fund . 
( 4 ) Sick Leave and Casual leave . 
( 5 ) Conveyance allowance . 
(6 ) Medical beneft / allowance . 
( 7 ) Overtime allowance . 
( 8 ) Age of Superannuation ; and 
( 9 ) Gratuity . 

[No. 28 (35) / 88 -LR- III ) 
C . RAMDAS, Under Secy . 


[ Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central) i 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1968 
8 . 0 . 2004 . - Whereas an application has been made under Section 19 ( b ) of the 
Payment of Bonus Act 1965 by M / s . Dharti Dhan ( P ) Ltd . , in relation to their 
establishments mentioned in the schedule below for extension of the period thr 
the payment of bonus to their employees for the accounting year ending on 30th 
June 1967; 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sumcient reasons to extend the time 
I bave in exercise of the powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b ) of 
section 19 of the said Act read with the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour & Employment No. WB - 20 (42 ) / 85 , dated the 28th August, 
1965 passed orders extending the period for payment by the said employer by 3 
months from the last date for payment of bonus under clause ( b ) of section 19 of 
the Act: 

Now , this is published for information of the employees of the said establish 
faents . 


3492 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


(PART II 


TRE SCHEDULE 


Name and address of the emplover . 


Establishment(s ) 


M /B. Dharti Dhan ( P ) Ltd . 
- Udaipur 


Deopura, Padla and Kundol Soap Stone 

Mines in Udaipur Division , . 


[NO. BA .6 ( 58 )/ 87-LS.I.) 

O . VENKATACHALAM , 
Chief Labour Commlesioner (Central) , 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Omloo of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 8th July 1968 
s . 0 . 2005. In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - section (2 ) 
of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1901 
(44 of 1964 ), the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan 
Shri O . P , Narula , Accounts Officer ( Junior) in the office of the Assistant Settlement 
Commissioner Incharge, Jaipur, as Managing officer for the custody , management 
and disposal of compensation pool with effect from 1st July , 1988. 

[No. 4 (A )AGL / 88. ) 

A . G . VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner ( A ) & E .x -Officlo Under Secy .. 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1988 


9 . O . 2606 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Presiding Officer, Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad in the 
matter of an application under section 33A of the said Act , from Shri Baidya Nath 
Chatterjee, Senior Mechanic , represented by Shri R . K . Nair , General Secretary . 
National Mineral Development Corporation Mines Workers Union , Kiriburu 
(Singhbhum ), which was received by the Central Government on the 24th June, 
1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT : 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer . 
In the matter of a complaint under Section 334 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
1947 (XIV of 47 ) in the matter of reference No . 245 of 1987. 

COMPLAINT NO. 8 OF 1987 
PANTIES : 
Shri Baidya Nath Chatterjee , Senior Mechanic, C / 0 . N . M . D . C . Mines 
Workers Union . -- Complainant. 

Versus 
Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines, N .M .D . C . Limited .-- Opposite Party , 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of the complainant. — None. 
On behalf of the Opposite Party . None. 


Std. ( 10 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1988 / AŞADHA 29, 1890 


3493 


STATE : Bihar 


INDUSTRY : Iron ore Mine 
Dhanbad , 17th June , 1968 /27th Jyaistha , 1880 (Saka ) 


AWARD 


This is a complaint Aled under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1941 
by Shri Baidya Nath Chatterjee , complaining that the opposito party has contraven . 
ed the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 in terminating 
bla service as a Senior Mechanic . Today an application is received signed by Shri 
D . R . Bharadwaj, General Manager , of the opposite party and Shri R , K . Nair , 
General Secretary , NMDC Mines Workers Union , Kiriburu ( Singhbhum ), stating 
that they have settled the matter involved in the complaint to their mutual satis 
faction and that award may be made in terms of the compromise . Under Section 
38 at the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 the complainant could authorise Shri R , K , 
Nair , General Secretary , NMDC Mines Workers Union and he has in fact has 
given the authorisation letter also . The authorisation is accepted by Shri R , K , 
Nair . The compromise consists of only one term , viz . that the management agree 
to reinstate the applicant with retrospective effect in Ws former post . I consider 
the compromise is for the benefit for the complainant. The compromise 18 , there 
fore , accepted . The award is made in terms of the compromise and submitted under 
Section 18 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. The compromise memo is annexed 
herewith and made part of the Award . 


( 84, N . VENKATA FAQ 

Presiding Officer 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

(No. 2 ) Dhanbad . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM - . 

LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 


In the matter of a complaint under Section 33 A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47 ) ( in the matter of Reference No . 245 of 1987) . 


COMPLAINT NO. 8 OF 1987 /388 


Dated 21st May , 1968 


PARTIES : 
Baldya Nath Chatterjee , Senior Mechanic , Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines , Clo 

NMDC Mlaes Workers Union , P . O . Kiriburu (Singhbhum ) - - Com 
plainant. 


Versus 
Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines, NMDC Ltd ., P .O . Kiriburu 

Opposite Party . 


(Singhbhum ) --- 


APPEARANCE : 
On behalf of the Complainant.-- Shri R . K . Nair , General Secretary , NMDC 

Mines Workers Union , P . O . Kiriburu ( Singhbhum ) . 
On behalf of the Management - Shri D , R . Bharadwaj. General Manager, 

Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines, NMDC Limited , P . O . Kiriburu ( Singh 

bhum ) . 
INDUSTRY : Iron Ore . 

STATH : Bihar , Place: Kiriburu . 

Dated , 8th June, 1968 
( 1 ) That both the parties have arrived at to mutual settlement on this day of 
8th June, 1988 in the matter of Complaint No . 6 / 87 / 388 dated 21st May , 1968 . 
arising out of reference No. 245 of 1967, the terms of which are as follows: 

( 2 ) That the management agree to reinstate Shri Baidya Nath Chatterjee 
Senior Mechanic with retrospective effect in his former post. 


3494 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1968 /ASADHA 29 , 1890 


[PANT II.-- 


( a ) That both the parties pray that the Tribunal may kindly accept this 
mutual settlement and an award be given accordingly . 
On behalf of the workmen concerned : On behalf of the management, 
( 82 ) R . K . NAIR , 

( Sd .) D . R . BHARADWAJ , 
General Secretary, 

General Manager, 
NNDC Mines Workers Union , 

Kiriburu Iron Ore Mine NMDC Ltd ., 
Kiriburu (Singhbhum ) . 

Kiriburu ( Singhbhum ) . 
Dated the 8th day of June , 1988 . 

APPBNDIX I 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 


COMPLAINT NO. 6 OF 1967. 
Baidya Nath Chatterjcc, Sr.Mechanic 

Complaiant . 

Vs. 
Kiriburu Iron Orc Mines , N .M .D .C . Limited . . Opp . party . 

List of Document admitted in Evidence for Complainant. 


Date of 
admission 


Proved 


by 


Distinguishing D escription 
merk or number of document 

and date 


Remarks 


Whether 
admitted 
by consent 
or on proof 


4 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


List of Document admitted 


in 


Evidence for Opp . Party , 


_ 


Distagulghing Description Date of Whether Proved by Remarks 
mark or number of document admission admitted 
and date 

by consent 

or on proof 
2 

5 

6 
NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL 

NIL 
$ d /- N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal No. 2 , Dhanbad . 

APPENDIX II 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO . 2 ) 

DHANBAD . 


SE 


COMPLAINT NO . 6 OF 1967. 
Baidyu Nath Chatterjec , Sr. Mechanic . . . Complainant 

V s. 
Kiriburu Iron Ore Mines, N .M . D .C . Limited . Opp . party , 

List of Witness Examined for the Complainant. 


- 


- - 


No. of witness 


Name of witness 


Dato of examination 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


4 - uu 


Sec . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1988 / ASADHA 29, 1890 


3495 


List of Witness Examined for the Opp . Party . 


No. of witness 


Name of witness 


Date of examination 


NIL 


NIL 


NIL 


$ d - N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 2 , Dhanbad , 


[No. 24 / 26 / 68-LRI. ] 
O . P . TALWAR , Under Secy , 


PAINTED BY TH : QIN BRAL MANAGER , GOVERNMUNT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLIBHED BY THO MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DHLHI, 1968 


