g<> *23 


mmmm w* »• 99 


3fl4d * <IFW5T 

<EHe (Baxcttc of ^ftidia 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


44] gf ftetft, sifter*, 2, 1968 /'Fifon 11, isso 

No. 44] NEW DELHI* SATURDAY, NOVEMBER a, 1968/KARTIKA 11 , 1890 


IR wm if fvm 1*5 d*>m fi sith) I f<r a? *wu *q *f xm <ni r% i 

Separate pacing Is given to this Part in order that It may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


gw II — 3 — (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(vwt Hsrwn vf bwiy $ q'snwft tftt (ru wst sfliwg ^r§vx) 

jnfa«pWI tilt <wrt) mj fgfiw wi*$t riU nfgg'vmr i 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

.V( 1 , Delhi, the 1 5th October 1968 

S.O. 3808. — fn esticrsc ot the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 13A of 
the Repiesentation of the People Act, 1950. the Election Commission, in consultation with 
the Government of lnpura hereby nominates Shri C.P.K. Erady. Secretary to the Govern- 
ment ot Tripura, as the Chief Electoral Officer for the Union Territory of Tripura from 
the afternoon ot the 14th August. 1%8 to the afternoon of the 11th September, 1968 vice 
Shri N. G. Choudhup transferred. 

[No. 154/20/68(1).] 


New Delhi, the 16 th October 1968 

S.O 3809.— In pmsuance of sub-iule (1) of rule 23 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, 1960, the Electron Commission hereby directs that the following amendment shall be 
made in its notification No. 429/66(2)/J&K/HP, dated the 10th December. 1966, namely. — 

For the woi k and figures “rule 21” the words, figures and letter “rule 21 or rule 21 A” 
shall be substituted. 


( 4353 ) 


JNo. 429/68(2)/J&K/HP.] 







4854 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTTIvA ! 1 , 1890 [Part II- 


New Delhi, the ink October 1968 

'l9 3 (fo 10 '<hp In FWr rt Tn ° f ■ s,lb r "l e a J of nite 23 of the Registration of Electors 
Rules, I960, the Election Commission hereby directs that the following amendment shall 
he made in Us not.fication No. 23/DN/65, dated the 24th March, 1966, nmnely:- 

^ '^M-lhalfbfSiSd. 21 ” thC W ° rdS - figUrCS ° nd Iet,Cr “ rUle 21 "to 


LJNO. 429/6#(2)/DN.] 

. exercise of the povvers conferred by sub-section 1 1) of section 13.4 

L’*, Representation of the People Act, 1950, tic Election Commission, in consultation 
th^^^r cmm r nt r°n P °?d.cherry hereby nominates Shri P. N. Subramanian, Secretary 
to the Government of Pondicherry, Department of Finance, ns ihe Chief Electoral Officer 
for the Union TerrUorv of Pondicherry, from the date he lakes over charge and until 
furtuer orders vice Shri G. Gopalakrishnan. - 


[No. 154/21/68.] 


New Delhi, the 18 th October 1968 


S.O, 3812,— In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (21 of section 116-C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes for 
general information the Judgment of the Supreme Court of India, delivered on (he Mb 
August 1968 in Civil Appeal No. 1895 of 1967 filed by Shri Somcband Manubhai Solanki 
against the Judgment and Order dated the 9th November, 1967 of the High Court of 
Gujarat at Ahmedabad. in Election Petition No. 23 of 1967 


IN I HE SUPREME COURT OF TND1A 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 


Civil Appeal No. 1895 (NCE) of 1967 
Sornchand Manubhai Solanki — Appellant. 

Venus 

Karsondas TJkabhai Parntar and another — Respondents. 

JUDGMENT 

Mitter, J. — This is an appeal by a returned candidate from an order of the Gujarat 
Hich Court setting aside his election on an election petition filed in respect of a Parlia- 
mentary constituency being No. 10 — Gandhi Nagar Parliamentary Constituency reserved 
for Scheduled Castes. There were originally four candidates contesting the election but 
one withdrew from the. contest leaving *ree on the field. The poll was taken on February 
21, 1967 and the result was declared on February 24, 1967. In the said election the appel- 
lant (the returned candidate) obtained 1,56,146 votes as against Ihe election petitioner’s 
1.26.208 and the second respondent's 50,702 votes. 

In the election petition filed on 10th April, 1967 various grounds were set up for 
declaring the election of the appellant void. This appeal is concerned only with grounds 
Nos. 4 and 5. Ground No, 4 was to the effect that the respondent No. 1, his agents and 
other persons with his consent had committed a corrupt practice of obtaining or procuring 
or attempting to obtain or procure assistance for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
first respondent’s election from persons in the service of the Government and belonging to 
the category of Gazetted officers, members of the police force, etc. No less than five 
categories of such persons were specified and several persons belonging to such categories 
were named in sub-paras (a) to (c) of ground No. 4. But the only one with whom the 
learned trial Judge had to deal was one Jethelal B, Jadhav said to be serving in the Income- 
tax Department of the Government of India. The learned Judge did not accept the 
evidence with regard to the assistance alleged to have been rendered by Jadhav and the 
point has not been pressed before us in this appeal by counsel ifor the election petitioner. 


The fifth ground in the petition was to the effect that “the first respondent and his agents, 
with the consent of respondent No. 1, had published false statements which they believed 
to be false and did not believe to be true in relation to the personal character, conduct and 
the candidature of the petitioner with a reasonable calculation to prejudice the prospect of 
the petitioner’s election." The main charge under this head was the free distribution 
throughout the consitucncy by the first respondent and his workers with his consent of the 
issue of the 10th February 1967 of a fortnightly paper named ‘Tamanna”, This paper 
was being published and edited by one Jryantibhai Subodh described in the petition ns 
actively working for the first respondent in the election and the person mainly responsible 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1 890 


for the propaganda on his behalf. Subodh was also said to have been one of the founders 
of the Backward Voters Council which had espoused the cause of the first respondent in 
the election. The publication of this issue by Subodh was said to have been done with 
the consent of the first respondent. A translation of a portion of the issue of “Tamanna” 
dated 10th February. 1967 is to be found in the. petition. It is not necessary to reproduce 
the same because there can be no doubt that the allegations made in that issue did reflect 
seriously on the conduct and character of the petitioner. It was even stated in that issue 
of the paper that the petitioner who was a candidate of the Republican Party was struggling 
to get votes by going to the villages and offering sweetmeat packets to Harijan voters. Mr. 
Sen, learned counsel for the appellant tried to convince us though rather half-heartedly, 
that the reference to the conduct of the petitioner in the said issue of “Tamanna" were not 
made literally but only allegorically. We find ourselves unable to take that view as there 
were direct references to the petitioner trying to bargain with the Swatantra Party and 
attempting to get one Humesh Parmar to withdraw his candidature by offering money to 
him and pawning the so-called Republican Party with Shri Wadilal Mehta, the seth of the 
Swatanlra Party. 

The question which the learned Judge had to deal with at the trial of the election peti- 
tion and which is before us now is, whether the first respondent was responsible for the 
publication of the issue of the “Tamanna" dated 10th February 1967, and secondly, 
whether even if he was not responsible for such publication, he was rcs|»orisible for the 
distribution of that issue to various persons al different places in Gandhi Nagar Constitu- 
ency either by himself or through his agents and workers with his consent to the detriment 

of the petitioner. Quite a large number of witnesses were examined before the trial Judge 
but only four witnesses were relied on for the purpose of showing that Ihere had been 

publication of false statements regarding the petitioner by the distribution of the impugned 

issue of Ihe Tamanna at different places and we propose to examine the evidence adduced 
by these witnesses in the order in which they were examined. 

The first witness was one Chhanbhai (PVV.4) of Dehgam. He said that the first 
respondent had come to Dehgam for his election campaign. About six or seven days 
before the date of the poll, the witness had gone from Dehgam to Nandol village (3 miles 
from Dehgam) to attend a meeting of caste panch attended by about, 1000 people. The 
first respondent and his workers including one Jayantibhai Subodh and one Vithalbhai 
were there and they were distributing handbills and newspapers. He could not recollect 
the name of the newspaper but said that, he would be able to identify it if it was shown to 
him. On being shown a copy of the issue of “Tamanna” dated 10th February 1967, he said 
that copies of this particular issue had been distributed to several persons at that meeting in 
Mandol. In cross-examination, he admitted that he did not remember what was written 
in that particular copv of the newspaper. When he was shown a copy of the issue dated 
25th December 1966, lie said that he was not in a position to say whether this was the issue 
which he had seen at Nandol. Although he did not need spectacles when he gave evidence 
in chief he had to use the same during his cross-examination and the trial Judge has 
commented rather strongly about the use of the spectacles by the witness as going to show 
that he was not a witness of truth. The witness also said that he talked to Naranbhai 
v ora, the election agent of the petitioner (P.W.19) about the distribution of the newspapers 
at Nandol. According to him Haranbhai had come to Dehgam about two or three days 
after the caste Panch meeting at Nandol and it was then that he had said Naranbhai as to 
what had happened at that meeting. 

The second witness in this connection was one Jivanlal (P.W.8) who stated in his 
examination-in -chief that he resided at Vijaynagar Housing Society near Kankaria, 
Abmedabad. His evidence was that about six or seven days before the polling day, the 
first respondent, one Jethalal Jadav and Jayantibhai Subodh had come to his housing 
society, accompanied by about forty other persons. He immediately corrected himself by 
saying that it was the first respondent who had come with Javantilal Subodh and Jethalal 
Jadav and that about, forty persons had attended the meeting which was held after their 
arrival. It was Jayantibhai Subodh who had come to his house to call him for the meeting. 
According to him, the meeting was first addressed by Jayantibhai Subodh, then Jethalal 
Jadav and lastly by the first respondent, and after the speeches were over, a booklet 
published by the Backward Classes Voters’s Council and some issues of the journal 
'Tamanna” were (distributed amongst those who had attended the meeting. He identified 
the’ booklet which was shown to him Ex. G. A copy of the ‘Tamanna’ being shown to 
him, he identified the same and said that he had received a copy of the newspaper from 
the first respondent. He did not, however, remember whether the speakers at the meeting 
had said anything about the petitioner. In his cross-examination, the first question he was 
asked was about the shift duty in which he was engaged at the Rohit Mills, Ahmedabad 
and his answer was that on the day of the meeting he was working in the day shift which 
commenced from 7 a.M. and lasted till 3.30 p.m. He did not recollect exactly the date on 
which the meeting was held but he remembered having spoken to Naranbhai Vora about 



4856 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part li- 


the meeting about two days prior to the date of the poll telling him that copies of ‘Tamanna"' 
had been distributed after the speeches. He had not shown any copy of the Tamanna* to 
Naranbhai nor did he recollect whether he had told Naranbhai about the contents of the 
different articles in that issue. His cross-examination goes to show as if he had talked to 
Naranbhai not in his house but at some other place. His definite evidence was that 
Naranbhai did ask the witness to show him the copy of the issue of ‘Tamanna’ but he did 
not show that copy to him, He did not have a copy of the "Tamanna* on the date when 
he came to give his evidence but ho remembered that ho had brought home a copy of the 
‘Tamanna’ from the meeting, There were about 300 houses in Vijaynagar Society and’ 
copies of the Tamanna’ had been distributed to several people residing there. He was 
positive that a copy of the issue had been given to each person attending the meeting. He 
WaS not in a position to say whether there was any meeting in Vijaynagar Society presided 
ove’r by Khandubhai Desai nor did he recollect any meeting of the Congress Party other 
than the one spoken to by him. He was sure that it was the first respondent who had 
distributed copies of the Tamanna’ to everyone at the meeting. 

The next witness was one NaDjibhai (P.W.9) who is a resident of Dehgam. According 
to his evidence, the first respondent had carried on election propaganda in his village at 
the time of the last general election and he used to go to that village along with Jayanti- 
bhai Subodh and two of four other persons. He saw the first respondent for the first time 
in connection with the election campaign about 15 or 20 days before the date of the poll, 
hut the first respondent had visited the village afterwards. On one occasion during the 
election campaign while he was passing by the village library, he was called in by Jayanti- 
bhai Subodh who was sitting inside the library in company of other persons and asked to 
give his name and his place of work. On the witness answering, Jayantibhai told him 
that he should vote for the Congress party candidate and handed over to him an issue of 
the copy of Tamanna’ dated 10th February 1967. In cross-examination the witness said 
that he used to know Jayantibhai Subodh even prior to the date of the abovo incident. He 
also said that Naranbhai Vora had come to Dehgam on the third day after Jayantibhai’s 
above visit to Dehgam and after his talk with him he had handed over his copy of the 
issue of Tamanna’ to Naranbhai. The witness did not recollect the exact date on which 
he had met Naranbhai but said it was about 6 or 7 days before the date of the poll. 
Naranbhai had come to Dehgam in the company of the petitioner for his election cam- 
paign and witness had invited him to tea. When Naranbhai came to his house, he saw 
the copy of the Tamanna' dated 10th February 1967 and asked him how he caine to be 
in possession of that particular issue and the witness told Naranbhai that Jayantibhai 
Subodh had given him that copy about 6 or 7 days before the date of the poll. According 
to the witness ihe second visit of the first respondent to Dehgam in the course of his elec- 
lion campaign took place about 6 or 7 days after his first visit. At the time of that second 
visit, the first respondent had held a meeting at the ginning press at Dehgam which was an 
open general public meeting. 

On Mjthabhai, who was a member of the Textilo Labour Association, Ahmedabad, 
was examined 1 as P.W, 13. His evidence in examination-in-chicf was that the chawl in 
which he resided consisted of about 50 buildings and in all nearly 500 persons resided in 
that chawl, Most of them were Harijans. About seven or eight days prior to the date of 
the poll, the first respondent had come to his chawl for his election propaganda work. He 
was accompenied by Mooldas Vljaydas Vaishya, a former member of Parliament, Himatlal 
Solanki and several other local workers. The first respondent had gone from house to- 
bouse in the chawl and requested the residents to vote for the Congress Party; he had also- 
asked one of the local workers to distribute amongst the residents of the chawl copies of 
thfc Tamanna' dated 10th February 1967. In cross-examination, he admitted that he had 
not been served with a witness summons in the case but Naranbhai Vora had asked him 
to come and give evidence there. He had a talk with Naranbhai Vora about a week after 
the date of the poll about the visit of respondent no. 1 to the Chawl and about the distri- 
bution of copies of ‘Tamanna’ in the chawl at the latter's instance. It was about a fort- 
night before his examinaion in court the witness stated that Naranbhai Vora had contacted 
him and informed him that he had given his name as one of the witnesses in the case. 
According to the witness, he had seen copies of the ’Tamanna” being handed over to about 
five persons in the chawl and he himself had received one such copy from one of the local 
Workers of the first respondent. He was not in a position to give the names of these 
five persons to whom he saw copies of ‘Tamanna’ being given although they were all 
residents of the chawl. He himself did not preserve the copy of that particular issue 
of Tamanna' which he had received. 

Not content with examining these witnesses, the petitioner summoned Javantibhai 
Subodh to give evidence. In his examination-in-chief, Jayantibhai said that he was in 
charge of the printing and publishing of the newspaper “Tamanna’ and he was also the 
editor of this paper, He admitted that he was the secretary of the Ahmedabad City 
Backward Classes Voters' Council and Ex, G being a booklet complained of what had 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 4857 


been published by that council. He then stated that Jethabhai B. Yadav, shown as one of 
the office bearers of the Backward Classes Voters Council, was not serving in the Income- 
Tax Department. At this stage of his examination, counsel for (he petitioner asked for 
Jeave to cross-examine the witness on the ground lhat he was not likely to tell the 
truth and the learned Judge allowed the witness to be cross-examined. We find it diffi- 
cult to uphold this direction of the learned Judge. Jayantibhai, no doubt, according to 
the petitioner, was an active supporter of the first respondent but at this stage when he 
was allowed to be cross-examined, he had nor said anything which would lead one to 
take the view that he was in the witness box with the avowed object of suppressing the 
v truth. In our opinion, the case was not one where leave to cross-examine the witness 
should have been given, on the materials then before the court. Cross-examined by the 
counsel for the petitioner, v/itness said that the views expressed in ‘Tamanna’ generally 
favoured the Congress Party and he himself had been a supporter of the party for about 
25 years. With regard to the issue dated 10th February, 1967, he frankly admitted 
-that he wanted the first respondent to succeed against the petitioner and he had therefore 
written the portion complained of in Ex. B. The materials which he had set out as facts 
in Ex. E were gathered by him partly from other newspapers, partly front what he came 
to know through correspondence and partly through other sources. He stated, however, 
'that he was not responsible for the distribution of the copies of ‘Tamanna’ in the company 

of the respondent and the first respondent was not associated with hint in printing the 

allegations set out in Ex. E. He admitted that the first respondent and himself were 
office holders in an institution known as the Backward Classes National Congress. The 
first respondent was the President and he was the Secretary of that body. Cross-examined 
He said that yvhen he wrote the different portion^ included in Ex, E, he had not obtained 
the consent, of the first respondent, nor did he do so in consultation with the first respon- 
dent or. at his instance. He denied that be Had gone to Namdol in the company of, the 

first respondent four or five days prior fo the date of the poll as alleged or that he had 
made any speech or distributed any issue of the Tamanna’ to different people. He 
further denied that he had distributed copies of the issue of Tamamla’ at any meeting 
held in Vijaynagar Housing Society or that he had called Jiwan tal to attend apy such 
meeting. His evidence was that he had not attended any meeting in connection with tHe 
election campaign of the first respondent at Vijaynagar Society six or seven days prior 
to the date of the poll. His positive evidence was that on 1 Ith February. 1967, a meeting 
Had been held in Vijaynagar Housing Society presided over by one Khamchandbhai 
Chavda and in which Khandubhai Desai w r as the chief guest. He admitted having 
attended that particular meeting. He did not know the witness Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod 
nor had he distributed any copies of “Tamanna" to any person at Dehgam at any time. 
He also stated that he had not accompanied the first respondent in the course of His 
campaigns to any place on the outskirts of Abmcdabad city or in the city itself. 

Naranbhai who was an election agent of the petitioner was the nineteenth witness to 
be examined on the petitioner's side. In his cross-examination-in-chief he stated that even 
after the date of the poll he had moved about in the constituency to collect information 
for the election petition which the petitioner was then contemplating presenting to 
the High Court. He had contacted witness Chhanbhai Virbhai Rathod of Dehgam 
after the election results were out. Chhaganbhai had told him that the first respon- 
dent, Jayantibhai Subodh and Manoharlal Shah, the Swatanlra Party candidate from 
Dehgam constituency had come to Nandol when a meeting of the caste Panch was 
being held and that Jayantibhai Subodh had distributed copies of the ‘Tamanna’ 
after the meeting which had been held about a week prior to his talk with Chhanbhai. 
In the same manner, he had also contacted the witness Jivanlal Sombhai Vaghcla at Vijay- 
nagar Housing Society. His evidence was lhat he had met Jivanlal at his house when 
Jivanlal told Him that the first respondent, Jayantibhai Subodh and others had come 1 o 
Vijaynagar Society and had addressed a meeting there. According to the witness, Jivanlal 
also told him that after the meeting the first respondent had given him a copy of "Tamanna” 
but Jivanlal had not brought with him the copy of "Tamanna” which he had received. 
Similarly he had contacted witness Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod of Dehgam where he had 
gone a week prior to the date of the poll. Nanjibhai had invited him to his house for 
a cup of tea and while he was having tea he saw an issue of the Tamanna’ lying on a 
table. Nanjibhai then told him that two or four days earlier, the first respondent and 
Jayantibhai Subodh had come to Dehgam for election propaganda work and on that 
occasion the grsl respondent had given him the issue of ‘Tamanna’. Milhabhai, P.W, 
13. told him that the first respondent. Javantibhni Subodh, and Jethalal Jaclav had come to 
bis cbawl and bad distributed copies of a booklet published by the Backward Classes 
Voters’ Council and of issues of ‘Tamanna’ to several leading workers in that area. 

On the side of Ihe first icspondent only three witnesses were examined including the 
respondent. The respondent admitted that be bad visited Dehgam in the course of his 
election campaign. The first occasion when he had gone there was on 7fh December, 1966. 



4858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKA il, 1890 [Part II— 


He had not visited Dehgam six or seven days prior to the date of the poll. About twenty 
or twenty live days prior to the date of poll, an election meeting was held at the ginning 
press of Dehgam. He had attended that meeting also. This was his second visitto 
Dehgam m the course of his election campaign. At the time of his visit to Dehgam in 
December 1966, he had taken Jayantibhai Subedh with him because he was quite well 
known there. Apart from this particular visit to Dehgam in the company of Jayantibhai 
he had not moved about anywhere else in his constiutency in Jayantibhai’* company. He* 
was not a subscriber of the Tamanna’ although he had been receiving complimentary copies 
of that paper after his election. He came to know about the impugned matter printed in 
Tamanna' against the petitioner only when he received a copy of the election petition 
In cross-examination it was put to him that he was on the advisory board of the ‘Tamanna’ 
newspaper and Ex. L being a news item printed in an issue of that paper, was shown to 
him. In this connection he admitted that he was present at that meeting and he had read 
messages from different persons received in connection with th e convention of the Backward 
Classes Education and Welfare Society. His definite evidence was that he did not know 
that he had been appointed as a member of the Advisory Board of that paper. The news 
item ‘L’ shows that he was a Vice-President of the institution and that Jayantibhai Subodli, 
the editor of Tamanna’ was also there. He disclaimed his connection with editorial policy 
of' the writings in the ‘Tamanna’ with particular reference to the issue dated 10th February 
1967. He said that the same had not been written at his instance or at his suggestion. 
As regards Jayantibhai Subodh, his evidence was that the latter did not help him in his 
election compaign nor was he one of his workers but he had acted as one of his counting 
agents at the election. 

It is to be noted that in the election petition itself full particulars were not given 
about the publication of the Tamanna’ or the distribution of the issue of 10th February 
1967 to various people at different places. The first respondent had only himself to blame 
in that he did not ask for further and better particulars in which case it would have 
been easier for him to have met the allegation or contradicted the evidence of the witnesses 
who were cited against him by calling other witnesses. We have however to examine the 
evidence which was brought before the court and to see whether a charge of corrupt 
practice was established. 


In examining the evidence it must be borne in mind that the charge of corrupt practice 
is something very similar to a criminal charge, and must be established by cogent and 
reliable evidence beyond uny reasonble doubt. The person seeking to establish the com- 
mission of a corrupt practice against a candidate must bring before the court unimpeachable 
evidence which would justify the court in coming to the conclusion that a charge of corrupt 
practice had been proved in such a way that there could be no reasonble doubt about the 
commission thereof in tho mind of any person. It is not possible to lay down any rule as 
to how many witnesses should be examined to establish the charge or a corrupt practice 
but in a case like this whore it is alleged that there had been free distribution of a 
newspaper containing defamatory matter about the petitioner throughout the constituency 
one would expect at least more than one witness to testify to the fact that the leaflet or 
the newspaper containing the matter complained of had been given to them at tho meeting 
or thereafter by the candidate charged with the corrupt practice or by someone else with 
his consent. It may be that in a particular case the Judge can rely on the evidence of a 
solitary witness of unimpeachable character in coming to the conclusion that the charge 
had been established but the witness must be such that the Judge can safely rely on his 
testimony. Speaking generally, the evidence of a witness deposing to the fact of distribution 
Of defamatory matter contained in a leaflet not published by the candidate would require 
some corroboration. In this case only four witnesses were examined to speak about the 
distribution of the newspaper Tamanna’ at four different places. The learned trial Judge 
has discarded the evidence of three but accepted the evidence of one as being sufficient 
in his opinion to establish tho charge. The Judge rejected the evidence of Chhanbhal 
Virabhai Rathod (P.W. 4) mainly on the ground that although the witness identified the 
issue of Tamanna’ dated 10th February 1967, during his examination in chief without the 
use of spectacles In cross-examination he said that he could not read without the assistance 
of the same We may add that even in his examination-in-chief the witness could not 
recollect the name of the newspaper which the first respondent and his workers were said 
to be distributing but he sought to identify it when it was shown to him. How he could 
Identify it without the spectacles it is difficult to see. In cross-examination he said that 
ho had told Naranbhai about the distribution of the newspaper two or three days after 
the meeting at Nandol but this was not borne out by the evidence of Naranbhai. 
According to the latter, Chhanabhai had told him about the distribution ot this paper 
after the election results were out. 

The learned Judge accepted the evidence of Jivanlal Somabhai Vaghela According 
to S JudThe was a Witness of truth because he was given his evidence in a stnnght- 
forvnud manner' and the Judge rolled mainly on the demeanour of the witness m the 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/JCaRTIKA 11. 1890 


witness box for this purpose. In our opinion, however, the evidence of this witness was 
not such that it could bo held to be conclusive by itself. He contradicted himself almost 
at the very commencement of his examination-in-chief. He said at first that six or seven 
days before the polling day in the constituency the first respondent, Jcthalal ladav and 
Jayantilal Subodh had come to the society accompanied by about forty persons, He 
corrected himself very soon afterwards by saying that forty persons had not accompanied 
the first respondent but forty was the number of persons present at the meeting which 
was held at the Housing Society. Besides this, in one important aspect the evidence of 
this witness was not borne out by Naranbhai, the petitioner’s election agent. According 
to this witness, a copy of the issue of Tamanna’ had been given to him by the first 
respondent on the day of the meeting. As noted already, his evidence in cross-examination 
was that he did not meet Naranbhai at his house and had not shown him the copy of the 

‘Tamanna’ although requested to do so but had told him at the first interview with him 

that he had a copy of the issue of ‘Tamanna’. Naranbhai ip his evidence however said 
that he had met Jivanlal at his house when livanlal had told him that the first respondent 
had given him a copy of the ‘Tamanna’, Jivanlal’s evidence, as already noted, goes to 
show that he had not met Naranbhai at his house because he told Naranbhai that he had 
not brought with him the copy of the “Tamanna’ which he had received from the first 
respondent. 

It is difficult to accept the evidence of Jivanlal for other reasons also. As we have 
noted before, according to Jayantibhai Subodh, the meeting at Vijaynagar Housing Society 
had taken place on 11th February, 1967, that is to say, 10 days before the poll' and it 

was presided over by Khemchandbhai Chavda and also attended by Khandubhal Desai. 

It would have been easy enough for the petitioner to have called witnesses to discredit 
Jayantibhai, and corroborate Jivanlal to the effect that there had been no meeting at 
Vijaynagar Society on the 11th February or that as a matter of fact the meeting had been 
held six or seven days before the date of the poll when the distribution of the Tamanna’ 
of 10th February, 1967 had taken place. According to Jivanlal about forty persons had 
attended the meeting and it was surprising that as one besides him would be found to 
come and corroborate his testimony. 

With regard to Jivanlal, counsel for the appellant moved an application for the taking 
of additional evidence which according to him would clinch the matter an'd demonstrate 
to the court that Jivanlal could not possibly have attended the meeting six or seven days 
before the date of the poll in the evening inasmuch as the records of the Rohit Mills 
where ho was working would show that at that time Jivanlal was engaged in the night 
shift thus excluding the possibility of his presence at any meeting in the evening at 
Vijaynagar Housing Society. It is to be noted that no attempt to adduce such evidence 
was made before the trial Ju'dge. It is also to be acted that Jivanlal was examined on 
20th October, 1967 and the examination of the witness went on till 6th November-, 1967. 
(f the respondent was so minded there was ample opportunity for him to have secured 
evidence from the Rohit Mills before the conclusion of the case and wc have no doubt 
that if an application had been made to the learned trial Judge in between 20th October, 
T967 and 6th November, 1967 for recalling Jivanlal for the purpose of contradicting him 
by the record of the Rohit Mills, the learned Judge would have allowed It. That apart, 
♦his is not a case where wc feel we cannot come to a decision in the absence of evidence 
now sought to be produced before us- For what has hanpened, the appellant has him- 
self to blame and in our opinion no case has been made out for the exercise of our 
jurisdiction under the provisions of Gr. 41 r. 27 of the Code of Civil Procedure. 

The learned Judge did not accept the evidence of Nanjibhai Kalidas Rathod CP.W. 9). 
We see no reason to take a view different from that of the learned trial Judge with regard 
to the evidence of this witness. The testimony of this witness is of such a character 
that wc find it extremely difficult to believe it. According to his evidence, be was passing 
along the road when Jayantibhai Subodh who was sitting inside the library called him 
in and asked him who he was and where he was working. Then he told him that he 
should vote for the Congress party and gave him a copy of the ’Tamanna’ dated 10th 
February, 1967. If Jayantibhai Subodh and the first respondent were _ out in an election 
campaign it was hardly likely that while they were sitting or resting in the library, they 
would call up people from the street and trust Into their hands a copy of the Tamanna* 
which contained matter derogatory to the petitioner. More than that, the way in which 
Naranbhai came to learn about this witness knowing anything about the distribution of 
the issue of ‘Tamanna’ is such that it cannot possibly be accepted. According to this 
witness he met Naranbhai six or seven days before the date of the poll and had invited 
him to tea. it was a strange coincidence that when Naranbhai was having his tea that 
he saw a copy of the 'Tamanna' dated 10th February 1967 lying about in the house of 
the witness and asked the witness how he had come to be in possession of it. The 
evidence of this witness as to his getting a copy of the Tamanna’ his coming across 
Naranbhai and the latter’s find of the copy in the house of the witness is so suspicion* 
that we cannot give credence to it. 



4860 the GAZETTE OF INDl/ NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKA ’ 1 , 1890 [Part II— 


This leaves us with the evidence of Mithabhai Ambaraxn Parmar (P.W. 13). The 
learned trial Judge did not accept the evidence of this witness mainly on the ground that 
he was a partisan fitness. The learned Judge thought him to fee such because he 
admitted having joined the petitioner in his companion for breaking open the locks at 
the Sachivalaya at Ahmcdabad. The witness however denied this suggestion. In our 
opinion, however, there are other circumstances which go against the acceptance of the 
evidence of this witness. The first thing to note is that he was an un-summoped witness. 
It was only in the first week of October, 1967 that Naranbhai Vora contacted him and 
requested him to come and give evidence in this case. Another thing to note.ubout this 
witness is that he said that the first respondent had gone to the chawl ncompanied by 
Mooldas Vtjaydas Vaishya but he did not mention Jayantibhai Subodh at. all while 
Karayanbhai in his evidence connects each of the witnesses with Jayantibhai Subodh. 
For all these reasons, wp are pot impressed by the evidence of Mithabhai although the 
learned trial Judge has not discussed his evidence in apy detail. 

In regard to all these witnesses no attempt was made to gel their testimony corrobo- 
rated by others to prove the fact that there was a free distribution of. the issue . of the 
newspaper ‘Tamanna’. The testimony of these witnesses taken singly as regarda- distribu- 
tion of the Tamanna at different places does not inspire confidence and in the. .absence of 
COTotaration & fc e to rqly on itfie .satnq,, It pwt^t.be.bopie in rpifid a case 

hke thi^ \Hjete fbjere ‘ c^n bp no doubt or dispute about the dcfafp°tn,tv ch|iracter of a 
particular document, it would be easy . enough to lead evi^epce to the effect Ugat the, docu- 
ment complained of hqd been distributed Jo various persons. When Ihp place of dis- 
tribution and the occasion for distribution is a meet jpg, one would naturally expect some 
corroboration of the distribution by. more ,thpn one witness, unless, of course, as we have 
already said, the witness is of such a character that no corroboration of his testimony 
was called for. 

Although four witnesses have been examined to establish the case of distribution of 
the matter complained of at four different places, we cannot take the view that the evi- 
dence is sufficient to lay the commission of corrupt practice fairly and squarely at the 
door of the first respondent. In his written statement, (he first respondent disclaimed 
having anything to do with the publication of the newspaper or of any distribution of the 
paper by him or by his agents with his consent In these circumstances,, it was certainly 
necessary for the petitioner to have come forward with better evidence than he has done 
in this case. It cannot be said that he was feeling any of calling a number of witnesses 
as be has examined no less than 19 witnesses but no two witnesses sneak on the same 
subject. 

Mr. Chari for the respondent also contended that there was enough material on the 
record to show that the printing of the Tamanna’ dated 10th February, 1967 was with the 
consent cf the appellant and according to Jayantibhai Subodh the paper had a wide cir- 
culation. The very fact that the printing was with the consent of the appellant, if estab- 
lished would go to prove his case of commission of corrupt practice. The circumstances 
from which Mr. Chari wanted us to come to this conclusion were as follows: — 

1. The first respondent was on the Advisory Board of the ‘Tamanna’ 

2. Jayaptibhai Subodh was not merely supporting the Congress Party in general but 
he was supporting the appellant in particular as he admitted in his evidence. 

3. The issue of the ‘Tamanna’ dated 10th February, 1967 contained an article directly 
dealing with the election and the editorial policy of the paper must be laid at the door 
of the Advisory Board consisting of the first respondent and other persons. 

4. Jayantibhai Subodh accompanied the appellant in his election campaign, if not to 
different places he had accompanied certain persons who had gone for the election 
campaign in favour of the first respondent- 

5. Jayantibhai was a counting agent of the first respondent. 

This argument appears to have been made before the learned trial Judge. His view 
however was that it was possible for Jayantibhai Subodh himself on his own responsibility 
and in hri enthusiasm to support the cause of the Congress Party and publish the impugned 
passages in the issue of the Tamanna’ dated 10th February, 1967 and not as the agent of 
the first respondent. In our opinion, the learned Judge was justified in coming to that 
conclusion. Although the first resnondent stated in his evidence that he did not know 
that his name had been included in the Advisory Board of the paper, we can take it that 
his name was there but there is nothing m the record to show that he had ever taken anv 
part in laying down the editorial poliev of this paper. Ex. *T,’ to which we have already 
referred, was a document of 1963, nearly four years before the date of election, and even 
if the first respondent had been on the Advisory Board in 1963, there is nothing to show 
that he was taking any active interest in the policy of that paper at or about the time of 



4861 


Sec. 3(ii)] TilE GAZETTE OF tNDlA: N ' VEM BEK 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 


tlie election or at any tLjne in between 1963 and the date of the election. The first res- 
.pondent admitted having taken the help of Jayantibhai Subodh when he visited Dchgam 
but apart from this, there is no evidence which would justify us in holding that Jayantibhai 
Subodh was accompanying the first respondent in his election campaign to different places. 
Jayantibhai has stated clearly that besides going to Dehgam with the first respondent he 
had not taken part in his election campaign at all and as we have already stated, this 
statement of Jayantibhai Subodh could have been falsified by calling other witnesses. 
Although Jayantibhai Subodh was a counting agent of the first respondent and although 
he admitted having leaning towards the first respondent in the election* the evidence 
brought before the court does net lead to the conclusion that the publishing of the defama- 
tory matter in the' ‘Tamanna’ issue dated 10th February 1967 by him was with the con- 
sent of tile appellant or even to his knowledge. 

Although the learned Judge has gone into the question as to whether the first respon- 
dent has been guilty of taking assistance from a government servant, namely, Jethabbai 
B. Ygdav. in. his election campaign at some length he did not accept the evidence and 
Mr. Chari did not press this point before us. In the result, we must hold that the 
learned trial Judge was not right in coming to the conclusion that the first respondent had 
been guilty of the commission of the corrupt practice as raised in issue No. 6 of the Issues 
-setled on 29th August 1967, namely, that the first respondent and his agents had with the 
consent of the first respondent published false statements believing them to be false or 
mot believing them to be true in relation to the personal character, conduct and candidature 
of the petitioner. 

Jn the result, the appeal must be accepted and it is accordingly allowed with costs. 

M. Hm/AAixi Lsi i. CJI. 

G, K. MtTTEK, J. 

New Delhi, 

Dated'. August 8, 196 

[No. 82/23/67(GJ).] 


S.O. 3813.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub-section (1) of 
■section 22 of the Representation of the Pcopel Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and in supersession 
of its notification No. 434/MD/65 dated the 2nd July, 1966, as amended from time to 
time, the Election Commission hereby appoints, in respect of each of the parliamentary 
constituencies in the State of Madras and specified in column 1 of the Table below;— 

(a) the officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table 

to be the Returning Officer, and 

(b) the officers specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table 

to be the Assistant Returning Officers: 

Table 


S-No. and Name of 
the constituency 

Returning Officer Assistant Returning 

Officer 

I 

2 3 

t MADRAS NORTH 

Commissioner Cor- Revenue Officer, Corporation 

poration of Madras. of Madras, Madras. 

2 MADRAS SOUTH 

, Cm nissioner, Cor- Revenue Officer Corporation, 
poration of Madras. of Madras, Madras. 

3 SRIPERUMBUDUR . 

CtUeetor of Chingleput. i. Revenue Divisional Officer 
Saidapet, 

2 , Revenue Devisional Officer, 
Kancheepurarn. 

t CHTNGLEP'.JT . 

District Revenue Officer, i. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Chingleput. Chingleput. 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 


Kancheepuram. 



4862 THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA ; 1 . 1890 [Par i II— 


i 


2 


3 


5 TIRUTTANI 

6 VELLORE (SC) . . 


7 TIRUPATTUR 


8 WAND I WASH 


9 TINDIVANAM , 


io CLJDDALOREi 


ii ‘ CHIDAMBARAM (SC) 


12 KALLAKURICHI. 


13 KRISHNAGIRI . 


14 SALEM 


15 METTUR 


. District Revenue Officer, 
Chingleput. 


. Collector of North 
Arcot, Vellore. 


. District Revenue Officer. 
North Arcot, Vellore. 


. District Revenue Officer, 
North Arcot, Vellore. 


. Collector of South 
Arcot, Cuddalorc. 


. Collector of South 
Arcot, Cuddalorc. 


. District Revenue Officer, 
South Arcot, Cuddalore 


. District Revenue Officer, 
South Arcot, Cudda- 
lore. 


, Collector of Dharmapuri 


Collector of Salem. 


. District Revenue Officer, 
Salem. 


r 

1. Revenue Divisional Office 
Tiruvftllur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Ranipct. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tirupattur. 

2 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Ranipet. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tirupattur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruvannamalai. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Ranipet. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Cheyyar. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruvannamalai. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tiruvannamalai. 1 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tindivanam. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tirukkoilur. ng 

t. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tirukkoilur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Chidambaram. 

1 . Revenue Divisional Officer, 

. Chidambaram. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Vridhachalam. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer 5 

Tirukkoilur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Vridhachaljgm. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Salem. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Hosur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dharmapuri. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dharmapuri. 

2. Commissioner, Salem 
Municipality. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Salem. 

1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dharmapuri 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Mettur. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Sankari. 



Sec. 3 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 . 1968 /KARTIKA ! 1 . 1890 4863 


x 


2 


3 


16 tiruchengode 

17 NILGIRIS . 

18 COIMBATORE . 

19 J k POLLACHI . 

20 DHARAPURAM (SC) . 

21 GOBICHBTTIPALAYAM 

22 PERIAKULAM . 

23 DINDIGUL 

24 MADURAI . 

25 KARUR 

; 26 TIRUCHIRAPPALLI - 

27 PERAMBALUR . . 


District RevcnueOfflcer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Salem. Salam 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Sankari. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Namakkal. 

. Collector of the 1. Personal Assistant (General) 
Nilgiris. to the Collector of the 

Nilgiris. 

2. Revenue, Divisional Officer, 
Coimbatore. 

. Collector of Coimbatore. 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Coimbatore. 

2. Commissioner, Coimbatore 
Municipality. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Pollachi. 

. Collector of Coimbatore. 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Pollachi. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Erode. 

. District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer,. 
Coimbatore. Pollachi. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Erode. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dindigul. ■ 

District Revenue Officer, [ 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Coimbatore. ‘ Erode. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Gobichettipalayam. 

. District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Madurai. Periakulnm. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Usilampatti. 

. District Revenue' Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Madurai. Usilampatti. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dindigul. 

. Collector of Madurai 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Madurai. 

2. Commissioner, Maduiai 
Municipality. ^ 

District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruchirappalli. Dindigul. 

2. Revenue Di visional O fficer, 
Karur. 

Collector of Tiruchira- 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
ppalli. Musiri. 

2, Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruchirappalli. 

3. Commissioner, Tiruchira- 
ppalli Municipality. 

District Revenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tiruchirappalli. ] Musiri. 

2, Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Ariyaiur. 



4864 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 2 , 1 968/kARTIKA 1 1 , 1 890 [Part II - 



28 PUDUKKOTTAT . . . Collector of Tiruchira- 1. Revenue Divisional Officei - 

ppall Karur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Pulukkottai. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Devakottai. | 

29 KUMBAKONAM - , . Collector of Tuanjavur.} 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Ariyalur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tlianjavur. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Kumbakonam. 


30 MAYURAM (SC) . 

31 NAGAPATTINAM 

32 THAJSTIAVURJ . 

33 StVAQANGA 

34 I RAMANATHAPURAM 

35 SIVAKASI 

35 tirunblveli . 


. D'strict Revenue Officer, 
Tninjavur. 


. DistrictRevenue Officer, 
Tlianjavur. 


. Collector of Tlianjavur. 


. D’itrict Revenue Officer, 
Ranainathapuram @ 
Muiurai. | 

D’strict R evens Officer, 
Rimmathapuram @ 
Madurai.^ 


C ill ector of R imnnathi- 
puram @ Madurai. 


. Collector of Trunelveli. 


1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Miyuram. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Nagapattinam. 

. Revenue Divisional Officer* 
Nagapattinam. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Mannargudl.J 

[. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tlianjavur. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Pattukkottai. 

r. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Dcvakottai. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Sivaganga. 

. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Ramanathapuram- 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Sivakasi. 

3. Revenue Divisional Office), 
Koilpatti. 

[, Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Sivakasi. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Koilpatti. I 

r. Revenue Divisional Officer , 
Koilpatti. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tirunelveli 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tatlcorin. 


37 T 3 NKASI (SC) . . . D' strict R 'venue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Tirunelveli. Koilpatti. 

2. Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Tirunelveli. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer, 

Cheranmahadevl. 


38 TIAUCHENDUR . ■ DistrictRevenue Officer, 1. Revenue Divisional Officer , 

Tirunelveli. Cheranmahaievi. 

2. Revenue D vuin nul Officer, 
Tuticorin. 

3. Revenue Divisional Officer. 

PadmanaMnap tram- 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KAETIKA 11, 1890 


I 


2 

3 

39 naghrcoil 


. C^ltestor of Kanyaku- 

m'iri. 

Revenue Divisional Officer, 
Padmmabhapuram. 




[No. 434/MD/68.] 


ORDERS 

iViw Delhi, the 14 th October 1968 

S.p, 3814. — Whereas tho Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mangilal Moolchand, 
Kadrabad, Jalna (Maharashtra), a contesting candidate for election to the House of the 
People from Jalna Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidate even after due notices has not given any good reason 
or explanation for tho failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said .Shri Mangilal Moolchand to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or or the Legislative Assembly or 
Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. MT-HP/30/67.] 

S.O. 3815. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Sonawale Vithal 
Ramchundra, A/P Malthan, Tal. Phaltan, District Satara (Maharashtra), a contesting 
candidate for election to the House of the People from Baramati Constituency, has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by tho Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, the said candidato even after due notices has not given any good reason 
or explanation for the failure: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Shri Sonawale Vithal Ramchandra to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State lor a period of three years from the date of 
this Order. 

[No. MT-HP/4Q/67-] 
By Order, 

K. S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 

SO 3816 -In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 116-C of the 

Representation of the People Act, 1951 the Election Commission hereby publishes the 
decision of the Supreme Court, pronounced on the 12th August, 1968, on an appeal from 
the order dated the 10th January, 1968 of the Judicial Commissioners Court for Manipur 
at Imphal, in election petition No. 2 of 1967. 

TN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 
CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION 


Civil Appeal No. 683 of 1968 

Paokai Haokip 
Rishang and others 


Appellant. 

Respondents. 


JUDGMENT 

HtDAYAtULLAU. C.J. -This is an appeal from the Court of Judicial Commisioner 
for Manipur at Imphal under s. 116A of the Representatioh of People Act. The appeal 


4866 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part IT— 


arises from an election to the Outer Manipur Parliamentary Constituency at which the 
appellant, who was the returned candidate, and five others were the contesting candidates. 
This Outer Manipur Constituency comprised 14 Assembly constituencies. The dates of 
poll were 15th, 20th. 24th, 28th February, 1967 and 6 th March, 1967 and the time of 
poll was from 7 30 A.M. to 4.30 P.M. This constituency had 2,19,554 registered voters. 
The total number of votes polled was 1,20,008. Of these 4,166 votes were declared 
invalid. The returned candidate received 30,403 votes as against the next candidate who 
received 28,862 votes. There was thus a majority of 1541 votes in favour of the returned 
candidate. The result of the poll was declared on March 10, 1967. 

The candidate who secured the second largest number of votes filed this election petition 
on April, 20, 1967. The main ground of attack which succeeded in the Judicial Com- 
missioner's court, was that polling was disturbed because of numerous circumstances. These 
were that the polling centre were in some cases changed from the original buildings to 
other buildings of which due notification was not issued earlier with the result that many 
of the voters who went to vote at the old polling booths found no arrangement for poll and 
rather than go to the new polling station, went away without casting their votes. The 
second ground was that owing to firing by the Naga Hostiles, the voting at some of the 
polling stations were disturbed and almost no votes were cast. It was lastly contended that 
the polling hours at some stations were reduced with the result that some of the voters who 
went to the polling stations were unable to cast their votes. 

It is hardly necessary to set down here the names of the polling stations at which these 
things happened. In any event, these polling stations carry rather strange names and it 
would not help to state them here. The net result may be stated. It was this there were 
12 polling centics. at 4 of which the venue for the poll was altered. There were 6 others 
at which the firing dishirbed the poll and in 2 of the polling centres not a single vote was 
cast and lastly in one of the polling centres out of 513 voters, only one voted. 

The following chart discloses the break-up of the figures at these polling centres: 


S. No. Name ot' the polling stations 
(as notified) 

No. of voters attached 
to the station 

No. of votes 
actually cast 

T. 

Tungim Khullcn High School . 

1242 

522 

2. 

Chandel Junior Basic School . 

1060 

172 

3 . 

Puram Pantha L. P. School . , 

654 

336 

4 ■ 

Litan L. P. School .... 

449 

347 

5 - 

Toupokp-' M. E. School 

584 

128 

6. 

Chikpih ixong H. E. School 

715 

67 

7 - 

Bolyang Tampak L. P. School 

858 

249 

8. 

Oklu L. P. School .... 

725 

17 

9 - 

Larong Khullen J. B. School . 

561 

53 

10. 

Lakhimei M. E- School .... 

565 

■— 

II. 

Nigirt Khallen N. E. School 

564 

— 

12. 

Karong Dak Bangalow .... 

513 

I 


Total 

8620 

1894 


It will be noticed from this chart that out of 8620 votes which would have been polled, 
only 1894 votes were actually received in other words, 6726 voters did not vote or could 
not vote. The election petitioner who ran a deficit of 1541 votes claimed in the election 
petition that the result of the poll was prejudicial to him in particular and that by the non- 
compliance with the provisions of the Act and its rules, that result of the election in so 
far as the returned candidate was concerned had been materially affected. The Judicial 
•Commissioner after examining a large number of witnesses on both sides, came to the 
conclusion that there was this flow in the election for this constituency. He went further 
and held that the result of the election in so far as it concerned the returned candidate 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


had been materially affected. He, therefore, avoided the election and ordered fresh poll 
in the 12 polling stations. 

In this appeal, the returned candidate attempted to establish that polling was not so 
disorganised that it can be said that it did not take place. He attempted to show that even 
where the polling station was shifted, it was a matter of few hundred yards and the people 
who went to vote knew the new location of the polling booths. He also submitted that, 
in any event, this had affected all the contesting candidates equally and the election 
petitioner could not, therefore, be said to have suffered more than the other candidates. 
Lastly, the returned candidate contended that it bad not been established x in accordance with 
the ruling of this Court in Vashist Narain Sharma v. Dev Chandra and others C 1 ) that the 
result of the election had been materially affected in so far as his election teas concerned. 
In this connection, the returned candidate relies upon the majority' which he had already 
obtained and refers to the votes has not been cast, pointing out that on the general 
pattern of the voting as disclosed in the case it cannot possibly be said that the election 
petitioner w'ould have carried such a majority from those votes as to neutralise the successful 
lead he had already established. The election petitioner as the answering respondent tried 
to show that the pattern of the voting dearly showed that the returned candidate had 
obtained a fortuitous lead which was capable of being wiped off if the voting had proceeded 
aecoidmg to the Act and the Rules. Both sides relied upon statistics to establish their 
cases. The election petitioner in addition relied upon the evidence of witnesses which he 
point out had been accepted by the Judicial Commissioner and relying upon the 
observations of this Court contended that we should not lightly depart from the findings 
given by the learned Judicial Commissioner. 

This case, without entering into the numerous detail is confined to the above contentions 
of tho rival parties. To begin with, it is hardly necessary for us to go over the evidence 
with a view to ascertaining whether there had been or not a breach of the Act and the 
rules in the conduct of the election at this constituency. We may say at once that having 
read the evidence we are in entire agreement wilh the decision of the learned Judicial 
Commissioner that by the change of venue and owing to the firing, a number of voters 
probably failed to record their votes which they would have done if polling had gone on 
smoothly and according to rules. This shows that the matter is governed by s. 100(l)(d)(iv). 
The question still remains whether the condition precedent to the avoidance of the election 
of the teiurned candidate which requires proof from the election petitioner that the result of 
the election had been materially affected m so far as the returned candidate was concerned, 
has been established in the Present case. This part of the case depend upon the ruling 
of this Court in V add it Narain Sharma ' s case. Jn that case there was a difference of 111 
votes between the returned candidate and the candidate who had obtained the next higher 
number of votes. One candidate, by name Dudh Nath Singh was found not competent 
to stand and the question arose whether the votes wasted on Dudh Nath Singh, if they 
bad been polled in favour of the remaining candidates, would have materially affected the 
fate of the election. Certain principles were stated as to how the probable effect upon the 
election of the successful candidates of votes which are either wasted fin this case not 
east) must be worked out. Two witnessed were brought to depose that if Dudh Nath Singh 
bad not been a candidate for whom no voting had to be done, the voters would have voted 
for the next sucessful candidate. Ghulam Hasan J. did not accept this kind of evidence. 
It is observed as follows: 

"It is impossible lo accept the imse dixit of witnesses coming from one side or the 
other to say that all or some of the votes would have gone to one or the 
other on some supposed or imaginary ground. The question is one of fact 
and has to be proved by positive evidence. If the petitioner is unable to 
adduce evidence in a case such inescapable conclusion to which the Tribunal 
can come is that burden is not discharged and that the election must stand.”. 

In another passage, it is observed: 

"It will not do merely to say that all or a majority of the wasted votes might have 
gone to the next highest candidate. The casting of votes at an election depends 
upon a variety of factors and it is not possible for any one to predicate how 
many or which proportion of the votes will go to one or the other of the 
candidates. While it must be recognised that the petitioner in such a case 
is confronted with a difficult situation, it is not possible to relieve him of the 

duty imposed upon him by s.100(1)(c) and hold without evidence that the 

duty has been discharged.”. 

Further it is pointed out that the burden of proof in England was the exact reverse 

of that laid down by the Indian Statutes. There, the returned candidate has to prove that 

the non-compliance or mistake did not affect the result of the election. Tn our country. 


(t) 1955 (1) SCR 509. 



48(58 THE GAZETTE OFIND1A: NOVEMBER 7 i qfiR/R artjka 11, 1890 [Part li- 
the buidcn is upon the election petitioner to show affirmatively that the result of the election 
has been materially affected, 1 


Therefore, what we have to see is whether this burden has been successfully discharged 
by the election petitioner by demonstrating to the court cither positively or even reasonably 
that the poll would have gone against the returned candidate if the breach of the rules had 
not occurred and proper poll had taken place at all the polling stations including those at 
which it did not. 


The evidence in this case which has been brought by the election petitioner is that kind 
of evidence which was uiticised by this Court. Witnesses have been brought forward to 
state that a number of voters did not vote because of the change of venue or because of 
firing and that they had decided to vote en bloc tor the election petitioner. This kind of 
evidence is merely an assertion on the part of a witness, who cannot speak for 500 voters 
for the siDiple reason that as this Court said the casting of votes at an election depends 
upon a variety of factoi s and it is not possible for anyone to predicate how many or which 
proportion of votes will go to one or the other of the .candidates. \Ve cannot therefore 
accept the statement even of a Headman that the whole village would have voted in' favour 
of one candidate to the exclusion of the others. This conclusion is further fortified if one 
examines the polling pattern in this election. To begin with, it is wrong for the election 
petitioner to contend that of the 6726 votes which were not cast, he would have received 
all of them. The general pattern of polling not only in this constituency but in the whole 
of India is lhat all the voters do not always go to the polls. In fact, in this case, out of 
2,19,554 \oters, only 1,20,006 cast their votes. Even if we were to add to them the 6726 
votes, it is obvious that not more than 55 per cent, of the voters would have gone to polls. 
This immediately cuts down the figures of 6726 to a little over half one the margin from 
which the election petitioner could claim additional votes therefore becomes exceedingly 
small. When we turn to the pattern of voting as is disclosed in the various polling booths 
at which the voters had in fact gone, we got a reasonably clear picture. At 9 polling 
centres, I 893 votes are actually polled. Of these, 524 votes were received by the election 
petitioner and 413 by the returned candidate and 1097 votes went to the other candidates. 


In other words, out of 20 votes, 11 went to other canidates, 5 to the election petitioner 

and 4 to the returned candidate. If one goes by the law of averages and applies these 

figures reasonably to half of the votes which were not cast, it is demonstrated at once that 
the election petitioner could not expect to Wipe off the large arrears under which ho 
laboured and that he could not have therefore made a successful bid for the seat even with 
the assistance of the voters who did not cast their votes. It is pointed out that at Tungam 
Khullcn High School, he received 401 out of 522 votes. If this had been the general Pattern, 

one could say that he would have got almost all the votes that has not been cast. But look 

at the other polling stations At Litan L.P. School, he obtained 41 out of 347, at Chandel 
Junior Basic School he got 34 out of 172, at Purum Pantha L.P. School he got 11 out of 

336, at Toupohpi M.b. School 18 out of 128, at Oklu L.P. School 8 out of 17, at Chakpi 

Karong M.E. School 3 out of 67, at Larong Khullen L.P. School 1 out of 53 and at 
Bolyang Tampak L.P. School 8 out of 849. While we do not think that statistic can be 
called in aid to prove such facts, because it is notorious that statistics can prove anything 

and made to be for either case, it is open to us in reaching out conclusion to pay attention 

to the demonstrated pattern of voting. Having done so, we are quite satisfied that 1541 
votes could not, by any rea-onable guess, have been taken off from tbc lead of the returned 
candidate so as to make th: election petitioner successful. In so far as the other contesting 
candidates arc concerned, they had received so few votes that even if they had received 
all the votes that had not been cast, it would not have mattered a little to the result of 
the election. The learned Judicial Commissioner reached his conclusion by commitlting 
the same error which was cnticised in Voilust Narain Shoi'fna v case. We look the statement 
of the witnesses at their worth and held on the basis of those statements that all the votes 
that had not been would have gone to the election petitioner. For this, there is no 
foundation in fact; it is surprise and it is anybody’s guess as to how ibosc people, who did 


not vote, would have actually voted. 

In our opinion, the decision of the learned judicial Commissioner that the election was 
in contravention of the Act and the Rules was correct in the^ circumstances of this case, 
but that does not alter the position with regard to s. 100(l)(d) (iv) of the Act. That section 
requires that the election petitioner must go a little further and prove that the result of 
the election had been materially affected. Now he has to prove it has already been stated 
bv this Court and applyimr that test, we find that he has significantly faded in his attempt 
and therefore the election of the returned candidate could not be avoided. It is no doubt 
true that the burden which is placed by law is very strict; even it is strict it is for the 
courts to apply it. It is toi the Legislature to consider whether it should be altered. If 
there is another way of determining the burden, the law should say it and not the courts. 
It is only in given instances that, taking the law as it is, the courts can reach the conclusion 
whether the burden of pioof has been successfully discharged by the election petitioner 



Sec. 3(il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 4869 


or not. We are satisfied that in this case this burden has not been discharged. The result 
is that the anpeal must succeed and it is allowed. The election of the returned candidate 
will stand. The costs in the Judicial Commissioner's Court will be as ordered. The 
election petitioner who apparently was not so much at fault as the Government in changing 
the polling stations, shall bear only half the costs of the appellant in this Court. 

New Delhi; 

Angus} 12, 1968. 

Sd/- C.J. 

K. Mitter, J. 

[No. 82/MR/3/67.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 21th September 1968 

S.O. 3817. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Ram Dntt Editor 
Pranveer Weekly, Village and Post Office Bairath, District Jaipur, a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from Dausa constituency, has failed to lodge any 
account of his election exponses as required by the Representation of the People Act. 1951, 
and the Rules made thereunder: 

And wh9 reas the said candidate, even alter due notices, has not given any reason or 
explanation for the failure: 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Shri Ram Dutt to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative 
Council of a State for a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. Ri-HP/6/67(7X] 

By Order, 

A. N. SEN. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 15 th October 1908 

S,ljL 3818. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 'and 
clause (51 of article 148 of the Constitution, and after consultation with the Comptroller 
and Auditor-General of India in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and 
Accounfir- Department, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Released. Emergency Commissioned Officers and .Short Service Commissioned Officers 
(RcAftrvatibu'df Vacancies) Rules, 1967, namely : — 

1. These rules may be catled the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and 
Short Servico Commissioned Officers (Reservation of Vacancies) Amendment Rules, 1968. 

2, In rule 5 of the Released Emergency Commissioned Officers and Short Service 
Commissioned Officers (Reservation of Vacancies) Rules, 1967, — 

td in subt-clause (1) of clause (a) of sub-rule (2), on and from the 17th June. 1967, 
the fallowing proviso shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely : — 

“Provided that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Service Commis- 
sioned Officer who, at the time aforesaid, did not possess the educational 
qualifications prescribed for direct recruitment to the Central Services and 
posts, Class I and Class II, recruitment to which is made on the basis of 
the results of the combined competitive examination for recruitment to the 
Indian Administrative Service or Indian Police Service or other Central 
Services or posts, Class I and Class III held by the Commission but who 
has obtained such qualifications subsequently, shall be eligible to compete 
for the reserved vacancies in those Services or posts,”; 

(ii) on and from the 11th May, 1968, — 

(a) after the first proviso to sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-rule (2), the following 
proviso shall b? deemed to have been inserted, namely: — 

“Provided further that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Service 
Commissioned Officer who, when he appeared before a Services Selection 



4870 the GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTE-CA 11,1^0 LParj 1 1 - 


Board as a candidate for the grant of Emergency Commission or Short 
Service Commission in the Armed Forces, was studying in a recognised 
institution, that is to say, a university, or an institution affiliated to a 
university, for the award of the educational qualification prescribed for direct 
recruitment to the Central Services and posts, Ctas3 I and class II, recruit- 
ment to which is made on the basis of the results of the combined competitive 
examination for recruitment to the Indian Administrative Service or Indian 
Police Service or other Central Services or posts Class I and Class II held 
by the Commission but who, having discontinued his studies because of 
joining the Armed Forces, did not acquire such qualification, shall be eligible 
to compete for the reserved vacancies in thoso Services or posts.” 

(b) for the proviso under sub-clause (ii) of clause (a) of sub-rule (2), the following 
proviso shall be deemed to have been inserted, namely; — 

“Provided that an Emergency Commissioned Officer or a Short Servlco Commis- 
sioned Officer competing under the second proviso to sub-clause (i) for the 
Services or posts specified therein should not have attained on the crucial 
date aforesaid, such upper age as may be prescribed by the Central 
Government.". 


[No. 31/l/67-E*t».(B),] 
SHANKAR KAPOOR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 17 th October 1968 

8.0. 3819. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 41 of the Arms Act, 
1959 (54 of 1959), the Central Government hereby exempts the following officials of the 
Ceylon High Commission, Now Delhi from the operation of so much of the provision 
of section 10 of the said Act, as is rclatable to the bringing into India of the arms 
mentioned against their names, subject to the condition that the aforesaid arms shall not 
be transferred to any person in India for consideration or otherwise. 

(1) Shri V. L. B. Mendis, Deputy High Commissioner — one 12 boro DBBL shotgun, 
Model ASTOR. 

(2) Shri T. A. Kreltszheim, Second Secretary— one 12 bore DBBF. shortgun Model 
ASTOR. 

2. The exemption shall remain valid for a period of one month from the date of 
issue of tjfis notification. 

[No. F. 17/14/68-PJV] 
D. D. lOJttH, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 

S.O. 3820 . — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution, the President 
hereby directs that the powers of the Central Government under the Delhi Municipal 
Corporation Service (Control and Appeal) Regulations, 1959 shall, subject to the control 
of the President and until further orders, be exercised by the Administrator of the Union 
territory erf Delhi. 


[No. F. 3/4/68-DeIhl.J 
Bv order and in the name of the President of India. 

A. D. PANDE, Joint Secy. 


*13 *T*T*PT 

18 1968 

t^o 3821 — TfsTTTT % 239 ^ ^ ( l) % SnjWT it 

7 ft t» ' d {AR T & I f% ftpvft Pr*T*T ?PTT (foqflvi 5ftT 



Sec. 3(ii)) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968 /KARTIKA 11, 1890 4871 


fafTTO, 19 59 % TOfR TOR TT SlfTORT, % faffST"! % TOVSfFl sflT 

TO vfvTTOT T f\, fecvft % VTOTTO % SfSHW SRT I 

[ffo ffir° 3/4/68 — 

RTTO % 73*^1% ^ V“R ffTR if, 

Vo 'Tfl, 

TO TO vfTO, VRfT JR*PR I 


New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 

S.O. 3822. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of aiticle 77 of the 
Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend the 
Authentication (Orders and other Instruments) Rules, 1958, namely : — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Authentication (Orders and other Instruments) 
SIXTH Amendment Rules, 1968. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette. 

2. In rule 2 of the Authentication (Orders and other Instruments) Rules, 1958, after 
clause (am), the following clause shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(an) in the case of orders and other instruments relating to the Ministry of Home 
Affairs by the Chief Welfare Officer, a Director, a Deputy Director, or a 
Deputy Financial Adviser in that Ministry." 


[No 3/13/68-Pub. I.] 
K. R. PRABHU, Joint Secy. 


New Delhi, the 25 th October 1968 

9.0. 3823. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 41 pf the Arms Act, 1959 
154 of 1959), the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministrv of Home Affairs No. G.S.R 991 dated 
the 13th July, 1962, namely: — 

In Schedule II to the said notification, in the entry in column 3 against EntiV H, the 
words and figure ''except where section 4 applies” shall be omitted. 

[No. F. 1 1/23/68 P.IV.] 
P. B. RAJAGOPALAN, Under Secy. 


n? RVTTO 

2 5 SRfSR, 1 968 

3824 . — vrij«r srfvft-qrr, 1959 ( i959*R 54 ) spttrrcr 41 srtW^t 

htPrw rpT SRfRi totT gq; vtor, to tour % spt vTu^tot to kto 

991fTrffa 13TOT[f, - 

gffrT TO II f.vfvfe 2% 3 if Rfafe 5i ?T ‘TuTPT 

% vi^r f% hrt 4 cTRj/^tcft | ' tftr v-r to f^tr i 


[to n/23/68-'5T^r~4.] 

fffo Vo TTSfffRmff, 

TOT WfTO, TOTO TOTOT I 



4872 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 r, 1890 [Part TT - 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 18th October 1968 

S.O. 3825, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5 icud 
with section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act. 1946 (25 of 1946), and of 
alt other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Government, with the consent ol 
rhe Government of the State of Nagaland, hereby extends the powers and jurisdiction of 
the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment to Kohima and Mokokchung 
Districts of the State of Nagaland for the investigation of offences punishable under the 
Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947). 


[No. 228/5/67-AVD. II] 
R. C. JOSHI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1968 

S.O. 3826. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 19J2 (37 of 1952) read with proviso below sub-rule 2 of rule 4 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl M. V. Desai. 
an Officer of the CIS Cadre, currently Adviser, Plan Information and Publicity, Planning 
Commission, to act as Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay with immediate 
effect for a period upto six months vice Shri R. P. Naik, proceeded on Fellowship of the 
Centre for International Affairs Harvard University, Massachuestts. 

[No. F. 2/61/68-F(C) ) 
H. C. KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


ft fftft. 19 3T4ftG 1968 

t^o fto 3827. — (ftr) fftRNft, 1958 $fftR 4 % 49-fft*T 
2 % ft% % 49441 % 474 RfefT srftjfatm, 1 9 52 ( 1 952 tit 374[) ft 

UHT 3 % am fetf ft ftftlft 44 Sfftff 94% gtr, 4 1 . 4 1 1 % tt^m ftftrr 

ftr tfepi % ftftnft eft fto ftft ft, m W frmr ftm srrft9 it fWr, 
TfRT 5F9TC fH I ffh TT f , ftsf^RT ft f%f% % 6 ftft 441 ^ fft ftjfft fft*T 
%ft fty, 9~tft 44 fftft fftn I 1 ft [44(44 eft otto fto ototf, ft ft 7 : 9 nr 
ftffiTr ftift fT9T ftffftftf, RBRMdR ft fftsftfu 94 ft %, % T4T4 94 ft ft 

^ I 

q 1 

[9444 4S4T 2/b l/68 — i[4it> fto} 

f^0 4» 4m, 

49 Eft, OTTfT 6HK I 


• 1 T 

MINIS TRY OF -TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 17 th October 1968 

S.O. 3828. — Whereas Captain D. A. Samant, Area Manager, Indian Airlines, Bombay, 
who was appointed as an assessor to assist the Court of Inquiry set up vide Notification* 
No. 7-A/29-68 dated the 26th June, 1968, in holding a formal investigation into an 
accident which occurred to a Boeing 707 aircraft of Pan American World Airways at 



4873 


Sec. 3 (ii ) ] Tflife GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KART1KA II, 1890 


Bum Bum (Calcutta Airport) on the 13th June, 1968, is unable to participate any further 
in the said investigation; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 of the Aircraft Rules, 
1937, the Central Government hereby appoints Captain J. J. Ezekiel, Indian Airlines, 
Bombay, a* an assessor to the said investigation, iu the place of Captain D. A. Saniant. 

[No. F. 7-A/29-68.] 

S. N. KATJI., Under Secy. 



ministry of finance 

(Department ot Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 24 th October 1968 

S-O. 3829. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the rSth October 1968 

Banking Department 


LIABILITIES ASSETS 



Rs. 

Rs. 

Oapital paid-up ........ 

5,00,00,000 Notes 

17,39,83,000 

Reserve Furd 

80,00,00,000 Rupee Coin 

5,38,000 

National Agricultural Credit(Long-Tsrm Operations) 

Small Coin ... 

3 , 84,000 

Fund . 

143,00,00,000 Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 

33,00,00,000 (a) Internal ..... 



( b ) External ..... 


National Industrial Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund 

55,00,00,000 (c) Government Treasury Bills 

*97’79’ 74>°°° 


Balances held Abroad* .... 

107,10,83,000 


Investments** ...... 

I75>67, 74,000 

Deposits ; — 

Loans and Advances to : — 


(a) Government 

(t) Central Government 

-■ . 

(f) Central Government .... 

51,14,84,000 (n) State Governments^ 

, ■ 89,88,66,000 


THE r; A 7 FT TF OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTKA 1 1, 1890 {PaRtTL 



(if) State Governments ..... 

5 * 43 = 55=000 

Loans and Advances to 


( k ) Banks 


(t) Scheduled Commercial Banksf 

20^3^9,000 



(it) State Co-operative Banksff 

205,93=82,000 

(i) scheduled Commercial Banks 

t44=33=64,ooo 

(tit) Others ....... 

3,40,28,000 

(h) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 

5,89,30,000 

Loans , Advances and In vestments from National Agri- 
cultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund 


(iti) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Banks 

58,07,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to 


(to) Other Banks 

15,62000 

(f) State Governments .... 

31,61,64,000 

(e) Other* 

330,93,05,000 

(ii) State Co-operative Banks 
(iti) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

15=02,53,000 

Bills Payable ....... 

24,60,72,000 

( b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures ..... 

8,53=6i,ooo 

Other Liabilities ...... 

39--49>05»ooo 

Loans & Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund 

Loans and Advances to Stale Co-operative Banks 

Loans Advances and Investments from National Industrial 
Credit(Long-Term Operations) Fund 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 

(b) Investment in bonds /debentures issued by the 

Development Bank .... 

Other Assets 

5=33=24=000 

6,18,23,000 

34,55.18,000 


Rupees .... ■ ■ 9 I 8=57= 8 4=00o Rnpees [918,57,84,000 


•Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities. 

»* Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long-Term 
Operations) Fund. 

@Exduding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund, bnt including temporary overdrafts to State 
Governments. 

j Includes Rs. 10,71,88,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4 Xc) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
ft Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit ( S tabilisa- 
tion.) Fund. 

Dated the 23rd day of October, 1968, 


Sjup, 3(iiH THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 . 1968/KARTHCA 1 1, 1890 487 !; . 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 for the week ended the 18th day of October 1968 

ISSUE dfpabtment 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department . 17,39,83,000 


Rs. 


Notes in circulation 
Total Notes issued 

Total Liabilities 


3219,97,33-000 


Gold Coin and Bullion 1 — 

(a) Held m India 

( b ) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities .... 

Total 

Rupees Coin 

3237,37,16,000 Government of India Rupee Securities. 

Internal B Us of Exchange and 
other Commercial Paper 


Rs. 

c 

115,89,25,000 

226,42,00,000 


Rs. 


3337 > 37 ,i 6 >°oo 


Total Assets 


342,31,25,000 

82-01.23,000 

2813,04,68.000 


3237 , 3^16000 


Dated the 23rd day of October, 1968 


L. K. Jha, Governor. 

[No. F. 3(3 )— BC/6S-] 


I 

I 


THE GAZETTE 0 F INDIA: NOVEMBER % i^KXR+StX 11 , lSSto 


Sec. 3(ii)[ TttE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


New Delhi , the 25 th October 1968 

J9X>. 3830. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 33 of the Bkttkipg 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government on the recommendation of 
the Reserve Bank of India hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 of the siiid 
Act shall not apply to the Cochin Commercial Bank Ltd,, Cochin, in respect Of the 
property (measuring 1 acre, 20 cents and 796 Sq. links) held by it at Mattancherry Town, 
Cochin, Kerala State, till the 30th September 1969. 

[No. F. 15(27^80/68.] 
V. SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues) 

New Delhi, the 26 th October 1968 

S.O. 3831. — In cxeicise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the 
Capital Issues (Control) Act, (29 of 1947) the Central Government hereby exempts the 
Industrial Credit & investment Corporation of India Ltd., from the provisions of Sections 
3 and J of the said Act, in respect of issue of debentures of the value not exceeding Rs. 

3,00,00,000/- (Rupees three crores) to be made by the said Corporation to the Industrial 
Development Bank of India coverinc a loan of like amount to be granted by the said Bank 
to the said Corporation. 

[No. R. 143-CCI/68.] 
M. K. VENKATACHALAM, 

Controller of Capital Issues. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 25 th October 1968 

S.O. 3832. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (iii) of clause ( 44 ) Of 
section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri R. K. Paul, who is a Gazetted Officer of the West Bengal Government 
to exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act In respect of the 
following areas in the Stute of West Bengal, namely 

(1) The whole of 24-Parganas Civil Districts excluding such areas as fall within 
the Calcutta Municipal Limits, and 
(2) Calcutta Municipal Wards No. 1 to 100. 

[No. 107 (F. No. 16/84/68-ITA-IIL] 
J. C. KALRA, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 26 th October 1968 

SQ. 3833. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) Of section 7 rebel with 
sub-section <3) of section 160 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Oliver n 
ment hfereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government 
•of India in the late Central Board of Revenue No. 31 -Customs dated the 2nd Apfll, i960, 
.namelv : — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, the entry “Halar” in the first column and 
the corresponding eikty ''Pindhara" in the second column shall be omitted, 

[No. 151/F. No. 14/6/68-LCn.] 



487 $ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA 1 1 , 1 890 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 

SLO. 3834. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2} of section 76 of 
tije Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Revenue), No. 50-Customs, dated 1st February, 163 namely:— 

In the said notification, 

(a) in paragraph (1) for sub-paragraph (ii), the following sub paragraph Shall be- 

substituted, namely:— 

' "(ii) The exporter produces to the proper officer a certificate issued by the 
Customs authorities at the port of destination that the goods have been 
landed at that port or a certificate from the authorised dealer, as defined 
in clause (a) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 
(7 of 1947) through whom the export documents have been negotiated, that 
the sale proceeds have been realised in foreign exchange or a certificate 
from the said authorised dealer indicating that the consignee has taken 
delivery of the goods in the country of destination and that the sale 
proceeds hereof will be realised in the prescribed manner.” 

(b) After paragraph (3). the following prov : so shall be added, namely: — 
“Provided that nothing in this notification shall apply to goods on which the 

export duty leviable is more than the drawback of duty admissible and 
the drawback of duty is adjusted against the export duty leviable." 

[No. 153/F. No. 14/2/68 LC.1I.] 


Stamps 

Nevj Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 

S.O. 3835. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-scction (1) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act. 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government hereby remits 
the duty with which the bonds to the value of fifty five lakhs of rupees to be issued by the 
Mysore State Financial Corporation are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 18/68-Stamps. F. No. l/48/6B-Cus. VII.} 


ORDERS 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 

S.O. 3836. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Centra) Government hereby 
remits the stamp duty with which the bonds to the face value of rupees fifty lakhs, to be 
issued bv the Kerala Financial Corporation, are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 17/68-Stamps F. No. 1/47/68-Cus. VTI.] 

, S.O. 3837. — In. exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) of 
section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government hereby remits 
the stamp duty with which the document, "Agreement" to be signed between the State 
Bank of India, New Delhi and two Banks ip France under the French Credit for 1967-68, 
is chargeable under the said Act. 


[No. 19/Stamps-F. No. 1/32 /68-Cus. VII,] 
M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 



bcc, 3(a)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1. 1890 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 2nd November 1908 

S.O. 3838. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs Act, 1962 
(52 of 1962), the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declares Tinsukia, in the 
State of Assam, to be a warehousing station, 

[No, 152/68-Customs— F. No. 3/45/68-Cus. VH.J 

M, S, SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 28th October 1968 

S.O. 3839.— In pursuance of sub-rule (4) of rule 155 of the Trade and Merchandise 
Marks Rules, 1959, it is hereby notified that, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of the said rule, the Central Government hereby removes the 
name of Shn S. K Das of Bombay, from the Register of Trade Marks Agents. 

[No. 6(l)Exp.Insp/TM/6B.]i 

P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28 th October 1968 

S.O 3840. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-ciause (xi) of clause (a) of 
section 2 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government 
hereby declares the following commodity to be an essential commodity for the purposes 
of the said Act, namely: — 

“Dry cells and batteries for Transistor Radios.’’ 

[No. 26(7)CS.II/6«.) 

B. K- VARMA, Under Secy, 


orrfpm 

Rf ft*?#, 28 V&jrr 1968 

r»Ro tfto 3841. — MPIfW ^ wfafaRE, 9955 ( 1955 RT '») RTCT 2 

tTttf (t) *6 T'-eastf (II) ffTTT WpRPff RRK ?fWT tpTO 

JTTT TOT *Fl tJtET IffsrfRRR T W.'Tpff Y fatT BHWtf RFfT WtftlW YT?ft 

f; 1 — 

<: ^ffWr ffetfi T fair ifefV?Tt” 

(5° 26(7) fao Ro 11/68 J 
»ffo i 



4^o the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1 890 IPabt II— 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of imports & Exports, New Delhi.) 

Bombay, the 3 0th July 1008 

Subject. — Order for cancellation of Customs purposes copy of licence No. 0118043 dan d 
ISth December, 1967 for Rs. 437/- issued in favour of Ml s. Jairnal Sinpli 
Kohli, Bombay. 

S.O. 3842 . — M Jb. Jalmal Singh Kohli Bombay granted the import licence No. P/EI/ 
0118043 dated 18th December, 1967 for Rs. 437/- for the imports of items shown on the 
reverse of this order for the licensing period A.M. 68 from G.C.A- They have applied 
for duplicate copy of Custom purposes of the abovcmenlioned licence on the ground that 
the original customs and exchange purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced. 
It is further stated that the original licence was not registered with any Customs House 
and not utilised. 

2. In support of this contention, the applicant has liled an Affidavit on stumped papers 
duly attested before the City Magistrate. 1 am satisfied that the original licence No. 
-0118043 dated 18th December, 1967 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate 
'Customs purpose copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant, The original licence 
No. 0118043 dated 18th December, 1967 is cancelled. 

|No. 275(b) IV /J, 200/ AM.68/L3/ET3] 

Subject. — Order for cancellation of Customs Purposes copy of licence No. 0108922 dated 
1th November. 1966 for Rs. 35000/-, issued in favour of M/s. Jagkurnar & Co. 
Bombay. 

S.O. 3843. — , tof|s. lagkumar and Co. Bombay was granted the import licence 
No. P/EI/0108922 dated 7th November, 1966 for Rs. 35000/- for the imports of items 
shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period A M. 67 ftom USA. They 
have applied for duplicate copy of Custom purposes of the abovementioned licence on the 
ground that the original customs and exchange purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
or misplaced. It is further stated that the original licence was partly utilised with the Custom 
House Bombay leaving a balance of Rs. 12464/-. 

2. In support of this contention, the applicant has filed bn Affidavit on stamped papers 
duly attested before the City Magistrate. I am satisfied that the original licence No. 0108922 
dated 7th November, 1966 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a diplicatc customs 
Purpose copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence No. 
0108922 dated 7th November. 1966 is cancelled. 

LNo. 293-95-97/IV/3/MVP/L.3-US AH.] 

Subject — Order for cant citation of Exchange Control purposes copy of licence No. PEI/ 
0117455 dated 9th November. 1967 for Rs. 23093/- Issued in favour of M/s. 
Amtel Pvt. 'Ltd., Bombay. 

S.O. 3844.— M/s. Am/el Pvt. Ltd., Bombay was granted the import licence No. El/ 
01 17455 dated 9th November, 1967 for Rs, 23093/- for the imports of items shown on the 
reverse of this order for the licensing period A.M, 68 from GC.A. They have applied 
for duplicate copy of Exchange Control Purposes of the abovementioned licence on the 
ground that the original Customs and Exchange Purposes copy of the licence has been lost 
or misplaced. It is further stated that the original licence was registered with Bank of 
Baroda Ltd. Bombay and partly utilised for Rs. 5325/-. 

In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit on stamped papers duly 
attested before the Magistrate. I am satisfied that the original licence No. EI/01 17455, dated 
9th November, 1967 has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate exchange pur- 
poses copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence No, El/ 
'0117455 dated 9th November, 1967 is cancelled. 

[No. 293 .95 .97.IV/75 8/M VP/AM.6 8/L.3 . ] 
I. R. KAKAR, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 
for Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13 th September 1968 

StO. 3845— A licence No, P|SS[1606532|C|XX|CD|23: 24 dated 3rd May, 1967 of 
the value of Rs, 3,25,000/- for Import of Endrin Lindane, Dleldrin, Carbahyl etc. for 



Si«c. 3(ii)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KART1KA 11, 1890 48S1 


manufacture of insecticides and pesticides was issued to M/s. Agro Chemicals Shed No. I, 
Industrial Estate. Ambala, subject to the condition that all the items of the goods imported 
under it shall be used only in the licence holder's factory at the address shown in the 
application against which licence is issued or may be processed in the factory of another 
manufacturing unit but no portion thereof shall be sold to any other party or utilised or 
permitted to be used in other manner. 

2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. A-28/67/ENF/CLA/3 702. dated 24th July, 1968 
was issued asking them to show enuse within 15 days as to why the said licence in their 
favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Government is satisfied 
that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in terms of Clause 9, 
sub-clause (cc) 

3. In resnonse to the aforesaid show cause notice, M/s. Agro Chemicals, Shed No. 1, 
Induslrial Estate. Ambala had, by their letter dated 9th August, 1968 furnished a detailed 
explanation and had also asked for personal hearing with the undersigned which was 
allowed to their representative on 5th September, 1968, 

4. The undersigned has carefully examined the said representation and has come to 
the conclusion that reply of the party is not based on facts and as such the same cannot 
be relied upon. 

5. Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph, the undersigned 
vs satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers vested in him undei clause 9, 
Sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955' hereby cancel Ihc licence 
No. P/SS/ 1 606532/C/XX/ CD/23 : 24, dated 3rd May, 1967 for Rs. 3,25.000 issued in 
favour of M's. Agro Chemicals, Shed No. 1, Industrial Estate, Ambala, Haryana. 

[No. A-23/S7/ENF'CT.A/5 t »ll ] 
New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 

S.O. 3846 M/s. Shamrock Industries, mile 13/3, Mathura Road, P. O. Amar Nagar. 

near Farfdabad were granted an import licence No. P/SS/160881 1/C/XX/25/C/D/25/26 
dated 7 th Decemhet 1967 for the import of Glassine and Vegetable parchment paper and 
German silver scrap for General Area for Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only). They 
have applied for the issue of a duplicate copy of the customs nurposes copy thereof on 
the ground that their original copy has been lost/misplaced, without having been utilised’ 
and without having been registered with any customs house- 

2. The applicant have filed an affidavit, in suoport of ihcir contention as required under 

para 299(2) read with Appcndix-8 of the I.T.C hand book of rules ,md procedure, 1968. 1 

am satisfied, the original customs purposes copy has been lost/misplaccd. 

3. In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under clause 9(cc), Imports (Control) 
Order, 1955, dated 7th December. 1955, as amended unto date. T order cancellation of 
the customs purposes copy of (he Import Licence No. P/SS/160881 1/C/XX/25/CD/25/26, 
dated 7th December, 1967. 

4. The applicant are now being issued a duplicate copy of the customs purposes copy 
of the sa'd ininort licence, in accordance with para 299(2), I.T.C hand book of rules an'd 
procedure. 1968 

[No. F. S-6/AM. 68/AU-HRH/GLA/2173.] 
J. S. BEDT, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and F.xports) 

ORDER 

New Delh', the 19th September 1968 

S.O. 3847, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports (Control) 
Order 1955. dated 7th December. 1955, as amended, (he undersigned hereby cancels the 
Exchange Control Purposes Cony of Imnort T. iccnce No G/AU/1031979 C/XX/25/C/H/24, 
dated 9th May, 1967 for the imnott of Laboratory equipments valued at Rs 71,000 issued" 
lo M/s. Indian Drags & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Antibiotics Projects), PO Virbhfvdra 
(Rishikesh), UP 



4882 THE GAZE 1 TE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part II— 


The reasons for the cancellation is that the Exchange Control Purposes Copy has been 
Jost/misplaced, 

The licensee has requested for the issue of duplicate copy in Jicu thereof 

[No, UD/23 -1/67-68/Pl. S.] 

S. A. SESHAN, Dy. Chief Controller. 
fur Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


(Office of the Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

Kanpur, the 9th October 1968 

S.O. 3848.— Licence Nos. P/SS/J583360 and 1583361 both dated 20th May, 1968 of the 
value of Rs. 10,000 each issued to M/s. Ram Lai Hari Shanker, 5, Industrial Area, 
Haitinapur, Meerut. 

Thereafter a Show Cause Notice No. Enf. 1( 128)/1968/Kan dated 6 th September 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause w’thin 7 days of the date of receipt of the 
notice as to why the said licences in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground 
that the factory has closed down and that they will not serve the purpose for which they 
were issued, in terms of clause 9, sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, 
dated 7th December 1955 as amended. 

The above Show Cause Notice has been returned undelivered by the postal authorities 
with the remarks that the address not known. 

The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the conclusion that 
the party have no defence to urge and have avoided a reply. 

paving regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragiaph, the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered 
ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers vested in him under 
clause 9, sub-clause (cc) of the Imports (Control) Order. 1955 hereby cancel the Licence 
Noa. P/SS/ 1583360 and 1583361, dated 20th May, 1968 for Rs. 10.009 each issued in 
.favour of M/s. Ram Lai Hari Shanker, 5, Industrial Area, Hastinapur. Meerut. 

[No. ENK1( I28)/I r '68/KAN.J 
SARDUL SINGH, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17 th October 1968 

S.O. 3849. — M /s. Continental Motors, Girgaum Road, Opera House, Bombay-4, were 
granted an Import Licence No. P/NA/AD/2018845/C/XX/25/C/H/2I-22/NQQ, dated 
18th April, 1967 for Rs. 26,063 (Rupees twenty-six thousand and sixty three only) for the 
import of motor vehicle parts etc. as per list attached thereto under National Defence 
Remittance Scheme. The licensee has now applied to this office for the issue of a duplicate 
Custom# Purposes Copy of the said licence on the ground that the original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the licence in question, has been misplaced/lost It is further stated 
that the original Customs Purposes Copy of the licence has been registered with Bombay 
Port Customs House and has been utilised to the extent of Rs. 6,228. The duplicate 
Customs Purposes Copy of the licence now required by the licensee is for the value of 
Rs. 19,835. 

In support of their contention the licensee have filed an affidavit. I am accordingly 
Satisfied that the original/Customs Purposes Copy of the said licence has been lost. 
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-clause 9(cc) of the Imports 
(Control) Older, 1955, dated 2nd December, 1955 (as amended), the Original Customs 
Purposes Copy of the Licence No. P/NA/AD/2018845/C/XX/25/C/H/2I-22/NQQ, dated 
L8th April, 1967 issued to M/s. Continental Motors, Girgaum Road. Opera HoUse, 
Bombay-4 is hereby cancelled. 



Sec. 3 (ft)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKa 11, 1890 4883 


A duplicate Customs Purposes Copy of the said licence is being issued separately to 
She licensee 


[No. NDRS/C-428/65-66/464 ] 

S. K. GREWAL, 

Denuty Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Dehli, the 14 th October 1968 

9,0. 385#.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is aeeawary 
vn the public interest that for transport of Petroleum between Barauni Refinery in Bihar 
State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh state Pipelines should be laid by the Indian Oil 
■Corporation Limited and that for the purpose of laying such pipeline it is necessary to 
acquire the Right of User in Land of Tahsil Chail, District Allahabad in Uttar PrfldWh 
State described in the Schedule annexed hereto. 

(2) Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of seclioi 3 
of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 i50 of 1962) 
the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the right of user there!*. 

(3) Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date of this 
Notification, object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the Competent Authority 
at Post Box No. 58, Allahabad, Every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifically whether be wishes to be hcared in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

State — Uttar Pradesh Distt. — Allahabad Tehsil — Chail 


ViU 'ge Survey No. Extent B-B-B 

1 Usman PurMaiku 159/108 0-1-0 ; 

[No. 28(5)/68-IOC/OR.] 
R. K. SINHA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1968 

S.O. 3851. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of ,tKe 
Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Botanical 
Survey of India (Class III) Recruitment Rules 1964, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Botanical Survey of fndia (Class HI) Recruitment 
(Amendment) Rules, 1968. 

, (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

2. In the Schedule to the Botanical Survey of India (Class III) Recruitment Rules, 
1964;— in the entries relating to the post of Lower Division Clerk / Steno- typist /Time 
Keeper/Store Keeper/Cashier, to the entry in Column 10 the following shall be substituted, 
mamely: — 

“10 per cent, of the vacancies in the grade of Lower Division Clerks, to be fitted 
by direct recruitment, will be reserved for being filled up by Class IV 
employees (borne on regular establishment), subject to the following 
conditions: — 

(a) Selection would he made through a departmental examination confined to such 
Class IV employees who fulfil the requirement of minimum educational 
qualification, namely Matriculation or equivalent. 



4884 THE GAZE1TE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA II, 1890 [Part U - 


(b) The maximum age for this examination would be 40 years (45 years) for 

Scheduled Castes /Scheduled Tribes candidates, 

(c) At least 5 years' service in Class IV would be essential. 

(d) The maximum number of recruits by this method would be limited to 10 per cent 

of the vacancies in the cadre of Lower Division Clerics occurring, in a 
year; unfilled vacancies would not be carried over to the next year.” 

[No. F. 2-39/68-SIH.l 
S. K. SANYAL, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 17th October 19B8 

S.O. 3852. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of 
the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), the Central Government hereby directs that 
t% name of the following public institution shall be added to the Schedule to the said Act, 
namely: 

‘‘National Council of Educational Research and Training”. 

1 No. F !-17/68-NCERT(A) ] 
S.O. 3853 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 8 of the 
Provident Funds Act ; 1925 (19 of 1925), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
provisions of the said Act shall apply to the Contributory Provident Fund and General 
Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
Educational Research and Training, New Delhi, with effect from 1st September, 1961, 

[No. F. 1-17/6R-NCERT.]; 

S. P. JAIN, Undert Secy. 


fsrwr fVtfft 

fff fafat, 17 SPTJT? 19 68 

fttfo 3854' — fiPTfe ffffa tffafaFF (l925*Ff 19) HTU 8 137- 

HTTr ( 3) 3TU T<UT *Tfwfi *FI TFTtff r, FTVTT ^ frrfttr £ fa 

Ffafanr ^ ffaHfafaei rrPfafaF w ft fffa wrffar m fam arn$; 

: 

faTSffa fww rT«Tf srfam 'rfrifa' 

. i-i 7/68«r-npro f o ftto J 

yqo tfto 3855' — fffd? ftfff *rfafa*FT, 1925 (1925VT 19) ^ OTTI 

3 3FSTRT (2)?TTT5Rn FfarffTT) FtlFT^r f IT, 

sfefYJfa ‘3FSFU, TF^ir ftr^TT FffFFFT cP4T wfaSUT ifFTC % 

FtfFifufr % pttf % fav Ftnfffh' FWFitfr fcfa a qr fiftf ffffsr % fan tfr 

lv-Dr- 1961 IfFnjfVr | 

[ffe Ttfio 1-17/68 — tt^-o fao $0 IFTO i\-o] 

wfl’v-rsr tti4 

F4T nfa4 <TRcr FTFTT | 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Development) 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1968 

S,0, 3856. — The following draft of Rules further to amend the Indian Patent* and! 
£>estgns Rules, 1933, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of tha 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 4885 


powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 77 of tho Indian Patents and Designs Act, 
1911 (II of 1911) is hereby published for the information of the public as required by 
sub-section (2) of the said section and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after 19th November, 1968, Any comments or suggestions 
on the said draft received before the said date will be taken into consideration. 

Draft Rules 

1. Short Title.— These Rules may be called the Indian Patents and Designs (Amendment) 
Rules, 1968. 

2, In the Indian Patents and Designs Rules, 1933, under the heading ‘Information’ after 
rule 63A, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — - 

"63 A A. Communication of result of reconsideration under section 78B(3). — The 
Central Government shall communicate the result of every reconsideration 
under sub-section (3) of section 78B of the Act to the Controller as soon 
as may be after such reconsideration and the Controller shall within fifteen 
days of the receipt thereof communicate the same in writing to the applicant 
concerned.". 

[No. 31(2)-PP&D/68.1 
HARGUNDAS, Under Secy. 

sfiWtftq! fomF ?THT FFTIF-FTF FTFF 

Tf fFFvft, 16 196 8 

tjflo 38 5 7 — fFFFT FT TIFF, FiTcftF TFT f^FT^T 

1 9 3 3 Jf FHf ^FTHF FUt % f^i)- TTTTT FTCftF rffe tflT fuFFST fMfFF 

1911 ( 191 1 FT 2 ) % taw 77 %T t P3r°3r ( 1 ) Jrjpra nrfaTFt FT TFtFFTFf FFtFF 

Furr FT^rt | i FFtTfirfer ( 2 ) ski stfrfwr siftt % §fft4 

FFtFF srafTTfRTT fFFT F1TT | TTfT £RT IjfFT fw FTdT & f«F TFT TIFF IT 6 
19 6 8 FT FF% FFFTF fWT ^>TT I ?F STTFF FT fdfftld faf«T % ’JF TFT fctqfVff STiT 
^5fTTf TT fWf fTTT FFlFT I 

fFFFT TT FTFF 

1. fttt : — fTTiff tt fttfIf Fft tft f^nxF (fwwf) faFF 

19 6 8 Tf?T FTFFr I 

2. FTT/ftF F?T TFT IVfTSF fFFF 1 9 3 3 F '^3 ft’ % fTHF 6 5T % TK 

fawfafad fTFF fFFT FFtFT, wlT . — 


"63T.TTT1 7 8^(3) % FTUtr foT fi*T 'JFfFFTT % FfTFTF Tt ^fFT TTTT. 
%TjftF FTTTT TTfafTFF qft FTTT 78U % : — 

% TIFFT (3) % FTFfT foF *Ft Tr?Fp jrfFFTT % FfFFTF Tl ?F FTTT ■ 

% 'JtFfFR; % 'UFT’t, FFrtftST fFFFT Ft FT'ft fK fFFTT ^FFt FTf c T % 1 5 faff 

% FrFT ^t 2(FFt fr^sTT T^FFT F^rf FT FTFFFt Ft 'fttFT l" 

[T° 3l(2)Ftofto ITDF FTo/68] 

^TFFFTF, 

FFT FfFF, FTTT FTFTTI 



4886 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTtKA 1 1, 1890 [Part IT— 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

Nets Delhi , the 17 th October, 1968 

SO 3858. — 'In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Mark, design of which mgether with the verbal description of the design and the title of the relevant 
Indian Standard is given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been specified. 

Tnis Standard Mick for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks, 
Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder., shall come into force with effect 
from 16 October, 1968. 





The 

Schedule 


Si. 

No. 

Dcfign of the 
Standard Mark 

Prodct/Class 

Product 

of 

No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian 
Standard 

Verbal description of the 
Design of the Standard 
Mark 


2 

3 


4 

5 


I IS4559 Redder type dc arc IS:4.J59-I953 Speci- The monogram of the 

Indian Standards Insti- 
tution, consisting of 
letters TSI\, drawn in 
the exact style and rela- 
tive proportions as in- 
dicated in col (2), the 
number designation of 
the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on 
the top side of the 
monogram as indicated 
in the design. 



welders 


ficition for single 
operator rectifier 
type dc arc welder 


[No. CMD/i3: 9 ] 


S. O. 3859. —In pursuance of sub- regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that marking fee per unit for rectifier type dc arc welders, details of which are given in the 
Schedule hereto annexed, has been determined and the fee shall come into force with effect from 


1 6 th 

October, 1968 

The Schedule 



SI. 

No. 

Product/Class of 
Products 

No. and Title of Relevant 
Indian Standard 

Unit 

Marking Fee per 
Unit 

X 

2 

3 

4 

5 

X 

Rectifier type dc arc 
welders 

IS:4J59-i968 Specification 
tor single operator re- 
rcctiflcr type dc arc 
welder 

One arc 

welder set 

Rs. 5-00 


[No. CMD/i3:io] 











Sec, 3 (H)] tpiE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1 890 4887 


New Delhi, the 18 th October 1988 

S.O 3863. —In p Ksiuncc of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution (Certification Mirks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that 
•ubae} lent upon the publication of IS:42i8 (Parts j to VI)-I967 ISO Metric screw threads, the 
Tulin S aulardi, particulars of which are mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have been 
.cancelled. 

The Schedule 


S. N). an 1 Title of th: In lian Standard No. and Date of Gazette Notification in which 

No. cancelled Establishment of the Indian Standard was 

Notified 


1. I \ : 1 3 30 193d General plan for metric S.O. zi 10 dated 17 September, 1959, published in 

screw threads with ISO profile (Dia- the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub- 

m tier range o ■ 25 to 300mm) section (ii) d ated 26 September, 1959. 

2. IS:i362-i9fi2 D.mensions for screw S.O. 1147 dated 10 April, 1963, published in the 

threads for general purposes (Dia- Gazette of India Part II, Section 3, Sub-section 

meter range 1 ■ 6 to 39mm) {Revised). (ii) dated 20 April, 1968. 


[No. CMD/I3:?] 


ERRATA 

New Delhi, the 14th October 1968 


S.O. CMD 3861/13:8. — In the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs 
(Indian Standards Institution) Notifications published In the Gazettes of India, Part II, 
section 3 (ii), the following corrections be made regarding designs of standard marks: 


I. Gazette dated 20 th April 1968 

S.O. 1369 dated 8 April 1968 . — Substitute the following designs for the existing ones 
against each SI. No. quoted: 


<a) SI No- 3(1) 
IS: i7zq 


(b) SI No. 6 ( third design ) 
IS: 2552 



<c) SI. No. 8 — ■ 

( 1 ) 

IS: 779 




Drum only 


( 2 ) 

S: 779 



Type A TyP= B 

(3) (4) 

TS: 2548 IS: 254* 


Type A 



Type B 





4888 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTJKA il, 1890 [Part II— 


2. Gazette dated 25 May 1968 

_ S O. 1802 dated 10 May 1968. — SI. No. 6(b ) — Substitute the following design for the 
existing one : 

IS 13055 



3. Gazette dated 8 June 1968 

S.O. 2038 dated 23 May 1968, Schedule. — -SI. No. 1, Col, 2 — Substitute the following 
design for the existing one : 

IS:3384 



4 . Gazette dated 22 June 1968 

S.O. 2178 dated 6 June 1968, Schedule, SI. No. 2, Col. 2 — Substitute the following 
design for the existing one : 

IS: 1422 



GREY 

5. Gazette dated 3 August 1968 

S.O. 2730 dated 22 July 1968, Schedule, SI. No. 1, Col. 2 — Substitute the following 
design for the existing one : 


IS:3076 



6. Gazette dated 10 August 1968 

S.O. 2763 dated 26 July 1968, Schedule, SI, No, 1, Col. 2 — -Substitute the following 
design for the existing one: 


1 S: 8 jS 




"Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 189Q 




7. Gazette dated 31 st August 1968 

S.O. 2904 dated 8 August 1968, Schedule, SI. No. 1, Col, 2— Insert the following 
•design in place of the letters and figures ‘IS : 1038’ : 

ISHO38 



8. Gazette dated 14 September 1968 

S.O. 3148 dated 23 August 1968, Schedule, Si. Nos, 1 to 4, 
following designs for the existing ones : 


18:2365 


2 

IS 1362 3 - 


3 

lS:3R2p 



Col. 


2— -Substitute the 



[No. CMD/13:8.] 
(Dr, ) A- K. GUPTA, 
Dy. Director General. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

CO-OPERATION 

(Deportment of Agriculture) 

New Delhi , the 19 lh October 1968 

S.O. 3862, — The following draft rules, which the Central Government proposes to 
make, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937) is published, as required by the said section 
for the mfoimalion of all persons likely to be afieced thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 20th November 1968. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date so specified, will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


AJOWAN GRADING AND MARKING RULES, 1968 

1. Short litle and application, — (1) These rules may be called the Ajowan Seeds 
(whole) Grading and Marking Rules, 1968, 

(2) They shall apply to Ajowan Seeds (whole) (Trachyspermum ammi) (Linn) produced 
in India. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a) “Agricultural Marketing Adviser” means the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 

to the Government of India. 

(b) “Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules. 

3. Grade Designations. — Grade designation to indicate the quality of Ajowan Seeds shall 
be as set out in column 2 of Schedule II. 

4. Definition of quality. — The quality indicated by the respective grade designations 
shall be as set out against each grade designation in columns 3 to 7 of Schedule II. 




4890 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part II— 


5. Grade Designation Marks. — (1) The grade designation marks in the case of ajowao 
seeds (whole) packed in polythene or paper bags shall consist of a design incorporating 
th« number of certificate of Authorisation, the word ‘Agmark’ and the grade approved by 
the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 


(2) The grade designation mark in the case of ajowan seeds (whole) packed in con- 
tainers of jute or doth as well as in containers in which sealed ploythene bags of graded 
ajowan seeds (whole) are packed shall consist of a label specifying the grade designation and 
bearing the design consisting of an outline map of India with the word “Agmaxk” and 
the figure of the rising sun with the words “Produce of India" and srRrfK 
resembling the one as set out in Schedule I. 


6. Method of Marking. — (1) The grade designation mark shall be securely affiled to, or 
printed, on each container in the manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

(2) In addition to the above, the following particulars shall also be clearly and 
indelibly marked on each container, namely:— 

1. Date of packing in code or plain letter*. 

2. Lot number, and 

3. Net weight. 


(3) An authorised packer shaU not affix or print any mark (including trade mark) on a 
container in which Ajowan Seeds are packed which indicates or is likely to indicate a 
quality or grade different from that indicated by the grade designation mark of the article 
unless he obtains the previous approval of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this 
behalf. 


7 Method of Packing. — (1) Only sound, clean and dry containers made of jute, cloth, 
or polythene, tin or glass shall be used for packing. They shall be free from any 
infestation or fungus contamination and also free from any undesirable smell. 



(2) The containers shall bfc securely closed and sealed in a manner approved by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 


(3) Each package shall contain Ajowan Seeds (whole) of one grade designation only. 


8fi - “sssres. s; ss 

beltoved by authorised packer, to the „ti,factio„ of the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser, namely:— 


the ssvssr s 

time. 


. . , s hall provide such facilities as may be necessary to the 

«£ StfStato atortol by the Agricultural Marteing Adv„er m Of behalf to 

their dutie. trader to. nil... 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 4891 

Schedule I 
(See rule 3) 

Design of the grade designation mark: 



4892 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1 890 [Part II— 

Schedule II 
( See rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designation and definition oj the Quality pf Ajtm.an Seeds grant n in India, 


S. Grade 
No. Designation"' 


Special Characteristics General Characteristics 


Inorganic 
Foreign 
Matter, 
Percent by 
Weight 
Max- 


Organic 
F'orcign 
Matter, 
Percent by 
Weight, . 
Muat. 


Shrivelled, 
Immature, 
Damaged, 
Discoloured 
and Weevil- 
led Seeds, 
Percent by 
Weight Max. 


Moisture, 
Percent by 
Weight, Max. 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

I. 

Spcial 

0 - 2 $ 

0-5 

1*0 

11*0 

Ajowan Seeds ■ shall 

2. 

Good 

0-s 

o- 75 

2*0 

11*0 

be : — 

3- 

Fair 

I'O 

I'O 

3'0 

II-O 

(a) The dried ripe 
fruits of the Plant 


botanically known 
as (Trachysperum 
antmi) (Linn) have 
the characteristic 
size, shape, colour, 
taste and aroma, 
normal to the va- 
riety; 

(b) free from visible 
mould or insect, 
living or dead ; 

(c) free from m’is- 
tyojo.tr. 


Definitions : — 1. Inorganic Foreign Matter: — Includes sand, earth and dust. 


2. Organic Foreign Matter: — Includes leaf, stem, chaff, other seeds and any 
other vegetable matter. 


3, Srivellcd and Immature Seeds:— Seeds that have not propcly developed. 

4, Weevilled Seeds: — .Seeds that are partially or wholly bored or eaten away 

by weevil or other insects. 

5, Damaged and discoloured Seeds: — Includes seeds that are cut broken 

damaged and discoloured, damage and discolouration materially affectir g 
the quality. 


Note : The ajowan seeds shall also comply with the requirements provided under the 

prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1954 and the Rules made thereunder. 


LNo. F. 13-21/68-L.A.] 

R. SUBRAMANIAM, Under Secy. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH, FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
(Depth of Health & Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 8th October 1968 

S.O. 3863.— Whereas the Central Government have, in pursuance of tho provisions 
of clause (e) of subjection (1) of section 3 of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 
1956), nominated Lt, Gen. B. Bhatlacharjya, MBBS, FRCP (Lond), FRCP (Ed in), DPM 
(Eng.), MRCS (Eng.), Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services, New Delhi, to 
be a member of the Medical Council of India with effect from the 29th .Tuly, 1968, ’vice 
Lt. Gen. J, R, Vaid expired; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions o'f sub-section (l) of section 3 of tho 
said Act. the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/59-MI, 
dated the 9th, January, 1960, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Nominated under clause (e) of sub-section 
(1) of secion 3”, for the entry against serial number 2, the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“Lt. Gen, B. Bhattacharjya, MBBS, FRCP (Lond), FRCP (Edin), DPM (Eng.), 
MRCS (Eng.), Director General, Armed Forces Medical Services, New Delhi”. 

INo. F. 4-26/67-MPT.] 


New Delhi, the 17 th October 1968 

S.O. 3864 — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the following 
persons have been elected to be the members of the Medical Council of India with effect 
from the 28th September, 1968: — 

1. Dr. Nandi Mrinal Kumar, Registration No. 13281, (West Bengal), 67, Dharam 

Tala Street, Calcutta-13. 

2. Dr. Das Ayuthan Bhuvan, Registration No. 2857 (Madras) Gandhi Road, 

Calicut, Keralal State. 

3. Dr. Garg Madan Gopal, Registration No. 3422 (East Punjab), 7, Krishan Nagar, 

Karol Bagh, New Delhi. 

4. Dr. Ghosh Rabindra Nath, Registration No, 13560 (West Bengal), 9, Sankritola 

Street, Calcutta- 14. 

5. Dr. Bhattacharyya Narendra Nath, Registration No. 12262 (West Bengal), 95, 

Akhil Mistry Lane, Calcutta-9. 

6. Dr. Sathayc Varnan Dinkar, Registration No. 5183 (Bombay), 502, Narayan 

Peth, Poona-2. 

7. Dr. Nath Sudhangsu Prasad, Registration No, 440 (Assam), College Road, P.O. 

Silchar-4, Cachar (Assam). 

Now, therefore, in pursuance cf the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in tho 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/59-MI, 
dated the 9th January, 1960, namely:- — 

In the said notification, for the heading “Nominated under clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 3 read with rule 26 of the Indian Medical Council Rules, 1957” and the 
entries thereunder, the following heading and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Elected under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 3. 

1. Dr, Nandi Mrinal Kumar, Registration No. 13281 (West Bengal), 67, Dharam 

Tala Street, Calcuta-13. 

2. Dr. Das Ayuthan Bhuvan, Registration No. 2857 (Madras), Gandhi Road, 

Calicut, Kerala State, 

3. Dr. Garg Madan Gopal, Registration >fc>. 3422 (East Punjab), 7, Krishan Nagar, 

Karol Bagh, New Delhi-5. 

4. Dr. Ghosh Rabindra Nath, Registration No. 13560 (West Bengal), 9, Sankritola 

Street, Calcutta- 14. 

5. Dr. Bhattacharyya Narendra Nath, Registration No. 12262 (West Bengal), 95, 

Akhil Mistry Lane, Calcutta -9. 



4894 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA 11 , 1 890 [Part II — 


6. Dr. Sathaye Vaman Dinkar, Registration No, 5183 (Bombay), 502, Narayan Peth,. 

Poona-2. 

7. Dr. Natha Sudhangsu Prasad, Registration No, 440 (Assam), College Road, P.O. 

Silchar-4. Cachar (Assam). 

[No. F. 4-3/65-MPT.l 


S.O. 3865. — Whereas the Central Government have in pursuance of the provisions 
of clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102: 
of 1956), nominated Dr. P, K. Duraiswami, Director General of Health Services, New 
Delhi, to be a member of the Medical Council of India with eflect from the 14th August,. 
1968, vice Dr. C. S. Patel expired; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (!) of section 3 of the: 
said Act, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 5-13/59-MI,, 
dated the 9th January, 1960 namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Nominated under clause (e) of sub-section. 
(1) of section 3”, for the entry against serial No. 5, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"Dr. P. K. Duraiswami, Director General of Health Services, New Delhi.". 

[No. F. 4-23/68-MPT.Ii 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1968 


S.O. 3866. — Whereas the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health ha*, by 
notification No. 17-43/59-MI, dated the 9th January, 1961, made in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 
1956 (102 of 1956), recognised the medical qualification M.D. (University of Illinois, USA)' 
for the purposes of the Baid Act; 


Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-section (1) 
of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), the Central 
Government hereby specifies a further period of two years commencing from the 2nd 
July 1968 or so long as Dr. Visscher Lois Helena who possesses the said qualification, 
continues to work in the Christian Hospital, Kasganj, Uttar Pradesh to which she is 
attached for the time being for the purposes of teaching research or charitable work, 
whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical practice of the said Dr. Visscher 
Lois Helena shall be limited, provided that the said doctor continues to be enrolled as a 
medical practitioner for the said period in accordance with the law regulating the 
registration of medical practitioners in her country. 

(d) The maximum number of recruits by this method would be limited to 10 per cent. 

fNo. F. 19-28 /68-MPT.J 


K. DEO, Under Secy. 


(Deptt. ol Health & Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 25 th October 1968 

SO 3867— The following draft of rules further to amend the Drugs and Cosmetics 
Rules 1945, which the Central Government proposes to make after consultation with the 
Drurs’ Technical Advisory Board, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 
STe DriZ and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940), is published, as required by the > said 
tw the biformation of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 31st January. 1969. 

, Anv objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with respect 
to the laid draft tefore the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government : — 

Draft Rules 

1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Rules, 1968. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA ] 1, 1890 


2. In the drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 after rule 84, the following rule shall be 
inserted, namely ; — • 

“84-A. Provision for appeal to the State Government by party whose licence has not 
been granted or renewed." 

Any person who is aggrieved by the order passed by the Licensing Authority refusing 
to grant or renew a licence in Form 25, 25-A, 25-B, 26, 26-A, 26-B, 28 and 28-A may 
within thirty days from the date of receipt of such order, appeal to the State Government 
and the State Government may, after such enquiry into the matter as it considers necessary 
and after giving the said person an opportunity for representing his views in the matter,, 
make such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.” 

[No. F. 1-I5/63-D.1 


(Drugs Section) 

New Delhi, the 26 th October 1968 

S.O. 3868. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 and 33 of the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940), the Central Government, after consultation with the Drugs 
Technical Advisory Board, hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, the same having been previously published, as required by the 
said sections, namely:— 

1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Third Amendment) Rules, 
1968. 

2. In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, (herein-After referred in as the said Rules), 
in rule 69-A, after sub-rule (3), the following sub-rule shall be added, namely:— 

‘(4) If the licensing authority is satisfied that a loan licence is defaced, damaged 
or lost or otherwise rendered useless, he may, on payment of a fee of 
Rupees twentyfivc issue a duplicate licence.'; 

3. For rule 74 of the said rules, the following rule shall be substituted, namely; 

“7 ^Conditions of Jjcence i n Form 25. — A licence in Form 25 shall be subject to the 
conditions stated therein and to the following further conditions, namely: — 

(a) the licensee shall provide and maintain staff, premises and equipment as specified 

in rule 71; 

(b) the licensee shall comply with provisions of the Act and of these rules and 

with such further requirements, if any, as may be specified in any rules sub- 
sequently made under Chapter TV of the Act: provided that where such 
further requirements are specified in the rules, these would come into force, 
four months after publication in the Official Gazette. 

(c) The licensee shall either in bis own laboratory or in any other laboratory 

approved by the licensing Authority test each batch or lot of the raw 
material used by him for the manufacture of his products and also each 
batch of the final product and shall maintain records or registers showing 
the particulars in respect of such tests specified in Schedule U. The records 
or registers shall be retained for a period of FIVE YEARS from the date 
of manufacture. 

(d) the licensee shall keep records of the details of manufacture as per particulars 

given in Schedule U of each batch of the drugs manufacture by him and 
such records shall be retained for a period of five years. 

(e) the licensee shall allow any Inspector, authorised by the licensing authority in 

that behalf, to enter, with or without prior notice, any premises and to 
inspect the plant and the process of manufacture and the means employed 
in standardising and testing the drugs. 

(f) the licensee shall allow an Inspector, authorised by the licensing authority under 

the provisions of clause (e) to inspect all registers and records maintained 
under these rules and to take samples of the manufactured drugs and shall 
supply to such Inspector such information as he may require for the purpose 
of ascertaining whether the provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder 
have been observed. 

(g) the licensee shall, from time to time, report to the licensing authority any 

changes in the expert staff responsible for the manufacture or testing of the 
drugs and any material alterations in the premises or plant used for the 
purpose which have been made since tho date Of the last inspection made 
on behalf of the licensing authority. 



4896 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA 1 1 , 1 890 (.Part II— 


(hi the licensee shall on request furnish to the licensing authority or such authori- 
ties as the licensing authority may direct, from every hatch of the drug, or 
from such batch or batches ot drugs as the licensing authority may from 
time to the specify, a sample of such quantity as the authority may consider 
adequate for any examination and if required fullprotocols of the tests 
which have been applied. 

(i) If the licensing authority so directs and if requested by the licensee who had 
also furnished prima facie reasons for such directions, the license shall not 
mil or offer for sale any batch in respect of which a sample is or protocols 
are furnished under clause (h) until a certificate authorising the sale of the 
batch has been issued to him by or on behalf of the licensing authority. 

(t) the licensee shall on being informed by the licensing authority that any part of 
any batch of the drug has been found by the licensing authority not to con- 
form with the standards of strength, quality or purity specified in these rules 
and on being directed so to do, withdraw the remainder of the batch from 
safe and so far as may in the particular circumstances of the case be 
piaeticable, recall all Lssucs already made from that batch. 

(k) the licensee shall maintain an Inspection Book in form 35 to enable an Inspec- 
tor to record his impressions and the defects noticed,"; 

4 . in Rule 74-A oi the said rules, 

(i) for clause (d), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: — - 

(d) "The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act ,and of these rules and 
with such further requirements, if any, a.s may be specified ip Hn Y rules sub- 
sequently made under Chapter IV of the Act; Provided that where such 
further requirements arc specified in the rules, these would come into force 
four months after publication in the Official Gazette. 

(ii) for clause (f) the following clause shall be substituted namely; — 

(f) The licensee shall, either in his own laboratory or, in any other laboratory 
approved by the Licensing Authority, test each batch or lot or raw material 
used by him for repacking and also each batch of the product thus repacked 
and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars in respect of 
such tests as specified in Schedule U. The records or registers shall be re- 
tained for a period of FIVE YEARS from the date of repacking. The 
licensee shall allow the Inspector to inspect all registers and records main- 
tained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such information 
as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of 
the Act and these rules have been observed. 


5. After rule 74-A of the said rules, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

‘‘ 7 4-B : “ Conditions of license In Form 25 -A : — - 

(1) The license in Form 25-A shall be deemed to be cancelled or suspended, if 

the licence owned by the licensee in Form 25 whose manufacturing facili- 
ties have been avniled of by the licensee is cancelled or suspended as the 
case may be, under these rules. 

(2) Ihe licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules 

and with such further requirements if any, as may be specified in any rules 
subsequently made under Chapter IV of the Act, provided that where such 
further requirements are specified in the rules, these would come in to 
force four months after publication in the Official Gazelle. 

(3) The licensee shall test each batch or lot of the raw material used by him for 

the manufacture of his products and also each batch of the final product 
and shall maintain records or registers showing the paiticulars in respect 
of such tests as specified in Schedule U. 'fhe records cr registers shall be 
retained for a period of FIVE YEARS from the date of manufacture. 
The licensee shall allow an Inspector to inspect all registers and records 
maintained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such informa- 
tion as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether the provi- 
sions of the Act and these rules have been observed, 

(4) The license shall either (i) provide and maintained to the satisfaction of the 

licensing authorities adequate staff and adequate laboratory facilities for 
carrying out tests of the strength, quality and purity of the substances 
manufactured by him or (ii) make arrangements with some institution 



Sec. 3(ii)] fHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 4897 


approved by the licensing authority for such tests to be regularly carried 
out on his behalf by the institution”. 

6. In rule 75-A of the said rules after sub-rule (3), following sub-rule shall be inserted,, 
nruely: — 

“(4) If the licensing authority is satisfied that a loan licence is defaced, damaged 
or otherwise rendered useless, he may, on payment of a fee of rupees seventy- 
five, issue a duplicate licence."; 

7. In rule 78 of the said rules, 

(i) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

(c) (i) The licensee shall maintain records of manufacture as per particulars 
given in Schedule U. 

(ii) The licensee shall either in his own laboratory or in any laboratory approved 
by the licensing authority test each batch or lot of the raw material used 
by him for the manufacture of his product and also each batch of the 
final product and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars 
in respect of such tests as specified in Schedule U. The records or regis- 
ters shall be retained in the case of a substance for which a potency date 
is fixed for a period of two years from the expiry of such date, and in 
the case of other substances for a period of five years from the date of 
manufacture. 

(ii) for clause (k), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(k) the licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules 
and with such further requirements, if any, as may be specified in any 
rules subsequently made under chapter IV of the Act, provided that where 
such further requirements are specified in the rules, those would come 
into force four months after publication in the Official Gazette.”. 

8. After rule 78 of the said Rules, the following rule shall be inserted, namely;. — 

“18- A ‘Conditions of License in Form 28- A’ 

(1) The licensee in Form 28-A shall be deemed to be cancelled or suspended, if 

the licence owned by the licensee in Form 28 whose manufacturing facili- 
ties have been availed of by the licensee is cancelled or suspended, as the 
case may be, Under these rules. 

(2) The licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Act and of these rules 

and with such further requirements if any, as may be specified in any 
rules subsequently made under chapter IV of the Act, provided that where 
such further requirements are specified in the rules, those would come into 
force four months after publication in the Official Gazette. 

(31 The licensee shall test each batch or lot of the raw material used by him for 
the manufacture of his products and also each batch of the final product 
and shall maintain records or registers showing the particulars in respect 
of such tests as specified in Schedule U. Records or registers shall be 
retained, in (he case of a substance for which a potency date is fixed, for 
a period of two years fromi the expiry of such date and in the case of 
other substances, for a period of five years from the date of manufacture. 
The licensee shall allow an inspector to inspect alt registers and records 
maintained under these rules and shall supply to the Inspector such 
information as he may require for the purpose of ascertaining whether 
the provisions of the Act and these rules have been observed. 

(4) The licensee shall either (i) provide and maintain to the satisfaction of the 
licensing authority adequate staff and adequato laboratory facilities for 
carrying out tests of the strength, quality and purity of the substances 
manufactured by him or (ii) make arrangements with some institution 
approved by the licensing authority for such tests to be regularly carried 
out on his behalf by the institution. 



4898 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11 , 1 890 [Part II— 

9. After Schedule T of the said rules, the following schedule shall be added, namely: — 

“Schedule U” 

(See rules 74, 74-A, 74-B, 78 and 78-A) 

I. Particulars to be shown in Manufacturing Records. 

A. Substances other than Parenteral preparation in general. 

1. Serial Number. 

2. Name of the product. 

3. Lot/Batch sizo. 

4. Lot /Batch Number. 

5. Date of commencement of manufacture and date when manufacture was 

completed. 

6. Names of all ingredients, quantities required for the lot/batch size, quantities 

actually used. (All weighing and measurements shall be checked and 
initialled by the competent person in the Section). 

7. Control reference numbers in respect of raw materials used in formulation. 

8. Date of mixing in case of dry products e.R. powder, powder mixture for capsule 

products, etc. 

9. Date of granulation wherever applicable. 

10. Weight of granules. 

11. Date of compression in case of tablets/date of filling in case of capsules. 

11A. Dates of coating wherever applicable. 

12. Records of test to be carried out in case of tablets as under:— 

(a) Average weight every thirty minutes. 

(b) Distintcgration time as often as practicable. 

13. Records of readings taken to check weight variation in case of capsules. 

14. Reference to Analytical Report number stating whether of standard quality or 

otherwise. 

15. Records on the disposal of rejected batches and batches withdrawn from tho 

market. 

16. Actual production and packing particulars indicating the size and quantity of 

finished packings. 

17. Date of release of finished packing for distribution or sale. 

18. In case or Hypodermic tablets and opthalmic preparations which arc required to 

be manufactured under aseptic conditions records shall be maintained 
indicating the precautions taken during the process of manufacture to ensure 
that aseptic conditions are maintained. 

19. Signature of tho Expert Staff responsible for the manufacture. 

B. Parenteral preparations . 

1. Serial Number. 

2. Nome of the product. 

3. Lot size. 

4. Batch number (if bulk lot is divided Into various batches and processed separately, 

a hatch number distinctly different from that of the bulk lot should be 
assigned to each of the processed batch). 

5. Date of commencement of manufacture and date of completion. 

6. Name of all ingredients, quantities required for the lot size, quantities actually 

used. (All weighings and measurements shall bo checked and initialled by 
the competent person In the section). 

7. Control reference numbers in respect of raw material used. 

8. PH of the Solution wherever applicable. 

9. Date and methods of filtration. 

10. Sterility test reference on bulk batch wherever applicable. (If bulk lot is divided 

into various batches and processed separately, a batch number distinctly 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 4899 


different from that of the bulk lot should be assigned to each of the 
processed batch). 

11. Date of flUing. 

12. Records of tests employed' — 

(a) To ensure that sealed ampoules are leak-proof. 

(b) To check the presence of foreign particles, 

(c) For pyrogens wherever applicable. 

13. Records of sterilisation in case of parenteral preparations which are heat sterilised 

including particulars of time, temperature and pressure employed. 

14. Number and size of containers filled and number rejected. 

15. Reference to Analytical Report numbers stating whether of standard quality or 

otherwise, 

16. Records of the disposal of rejected batch and batches withdrawn from the 

market. 

17. Actual production and packing particulars. 

18. Date of release of finished packings for distribution or sale. 

19. Particulars regarding tho precautions taken during manufacture to ensure that 

aseptic conditions are maintained. 

20. Control reference numbers in respect of the lot of glass containers used for 

filling. 

21. Signature of the Expert Staff responsible for manufacture. 

HI. Records of raw materials 

Records in respect of each raw material shall be maintained indicating the quantity 
received, control reference numbers, the quantities issued from time to time, 
the names and batch Nos. of the products for the manufacture of which 
the quantities have been issued and the particulars relating to the proper 
disposal of the stocks. 

fill. Particulars to be recorded in the analytical records 

A. Tablets and capsules. 

1. Analytical report number. 

2. Name of the sample. 

3. Date of receipt of sample. 

4. Batch/Lot Number. 

5. Protocols of tests applied. 

(a) Description. 

fb) Identification. 

(c) Uniformity of weight. 

(d) Uniformity of diameter (if applicable), 

(e) Disintegration Test (time in minutes). 

(f) Any other tests. 

(g) Results of assay. 

Notes. — Records regarding various tests applied (including reading and calcu- 
lations) should be maintained and neecssary reference to these records 
should be entered in Column 5 above whenever necessary. 

6 . Signature of the Analyst. 

7. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 

B- Parenteral Preparations. 

1. Analytical report number. 

2. Name of the sample. 



4900 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTLKA ! 1 , 1 890 IP art II- 

3. Batch number. 

4. Date of receipt of sample. 

5. Number of container filled. 

6. Number of container received. 

7. Protocols of Tests applied. 

(a) Clarity. 

(b) PH wherever applicable 

(c) Identification. 

(d) Volume in container. 

(e) Sterility — (i) Bulk sample wherever applicable (ii) containei sample. 

(f) Pyrogen Test wherever applicable. 

(g) Toxicity test wherever applicable. 

(h) Any other tests. 

(i) Results of Assay. 

Note,— -R ecords regarding various tests applied (including readings ai.d calcula- 
tions) should be maintained and necessary reference to these records- 
should bo entered in column 7 above, wherever necessary. 

8. Signature of the Analyst. 

9. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 

Pyrogen Test. 

1. Test Report Number. 

2. Name of sample. 

3. Batch Number. 

4. Number of rabbits used. 

5. Weight of each rabbit. 

6. Normal temperature of each rabbit 

7. Mean initial temperature of each rabbit. 

8. Dose and volume of solution injected into each rabbit and time of injection-.. 

9. Temperature of each rabbit noted at suitable intervals. 

10. Maximum temperature. 

1 1 . Response. 

12. Summed Response. 

13. Signature of the Analyst. 

14. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst 

Toxicity Test. 

1. Test Report Number. 

2. Name of the sample. 

3. Batch Number. 

4. Number of mice used and weight of each mouse. 

5. Strength and volume of the drug injected. 

6. Date of injection. 

7. Results and remarks, 

8. Signature of Analyst 

9. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst 

C, For other drugs. 

1. Analytical report number. 

2. Name of the samplo. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 1, 1968/KARTlKA 11, 1890 45^1 

3. Batch /Lot number. 

4. Date of receipt of sample. 

5. Protocols of test applied* 

(a) Description. 

(b) Identification, 

(c) Any other tests. 

(d) Results of assay. 

Note. — Particulars regarding various tests applied (including readings and calcu- 
lations) shall be maintained and necessary reference to these records shall 
bo entered in Column J above, wherever necessary. 

6. Signature of the Analyst. 

7. Opinion and signature of the approved Analyst. 

D. Raw Materials. 

1. Serial Number. 

2. Name of the material. 

3. Name of the manufacturer/supplier. 

4. Quantity received, 

5. Invoice /Challan Number and date. 

6. Protocols of tests applied. 

Note. — Particulars regarding various tests applied (including reading and calcu- 
lations) shall be maintained and necessary reference to these records shall 
be entered in Column 6 above, whenever necessary. 

E. Container, Packing Material, etc. 

1. Serial Number. 

2. Name of the item. 

3. Name of tho manufacturcr/supplier. 

4. Quantity received. 

5. Invoice/Challan number and date. 

6. Results of tests applied. 

Note. — Particulars regarding various tests applied shall be maintained and neces- 
sary reference to these records shall be entered in column 6 above, whenever 
necessary. 

7. Remarks. 

8. Signature of the examiner. 

Note. — 1, The foregoing provisions represent the minimum requirements to be 
complied with by the licensee. The Licensing Authority, may, however, 
direct the nature of records to be maintained by the licensee for such 
products as are not covered by the categories described above. 

2. The Licensing Authority may permit the licensee to maintain records in such 

manner as arc considered satisfactory, provided the basic requirements 
laid down above are complied with. 

3. The Licensing Authority may at its discretion direct the licensee to maintain 

records for such additional particulars as it may consider necessary in the 
circumstances of a particular case." 

|'No. F. 1-20/64-Drugs.] 

S.O 3869 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs 

and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (23 of 1940), the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Drugs Technical Advisory Board, hereby makes the following rules further to amend 
the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, the same having been previously published as 
required by the said sections, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Second Amendment) 
Rules, 1968. 



4902 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KART1KA 1 1, 1890 (Pari II - 


(2) These shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, hereinafter referred to as the said rules, 
in rule 30AA, in the Explanations, after the words ‘the Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeias of 
the United States or the United Kingdom’, the words ‘or the German Homoeopathic 
Pharmacopoeia’ shall be inserted. 

3. In the said rules, for rule 44, the following rule shall be substituted, namely. — 

“44. Qualifications of Government Analyst. — A person appointed as a Government 
Analyst under the Act shall be a person who, — 

fa) is a graduate in medicine or science or pharmacy or pharmaceutical chemistry 
of a University recognised for this purpose by the appointing authority 
and has had not less than three years’ post-graduate experience in the 
anlysis of drugs in a laboratory under the control of (i) a Government 
Analyst appointed under the Act, or (ii) a Fellow of the Royal Institute 
of Chemistry of Great Britain (Branch E), or (iii) the head of an Institu- 
tion or testing laboratory approved for the purpose by the appointing 
authority, or 

(b) possesses the Associatcship Diploma of the Institution of Chemists (India) 

obtained by passing the said examination with 'Analysis of Drugs and 
Pharmaceuticals' as one of the subiects and has had not less than two 
years’ post-graduate experience in the analysis of drugs in a laboratory 
under the control of (i) a Government Analyst appointed under the Act, 
or (ii) a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain 
(Branch E), or (iii) the head of an Institution or testing laboratory 
approved for the purpose by the appointing authority; 

(c) is a fellow of the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain (Branch E). 

Provided that 

(i) for the purpose of examination of items included in Schedule C, the person 

appointed should be able to produce evidence of satisfactory training in 
physiology, bacteriology or serology or pathology or pharmacology or 
microbiology and should have not less than three years’ experience of 
testing biological products included in Schedule C in an institution or 
testing laboratory approved by the appointing authority; 

(ii) for a period of four years from the date on which Chapter IV of the Act 

takes effect in the States, persons, whose training and experience are 
regarded by the appointing authority as affording, subject to such further 
training, if any, as may be considered necessary, a reasonable guarantee 
of adequate knowledge and competence, may be appointed as Government 
Analysts. The persons so appointed may, if the appointing authority so 
desires, continue in service after the expiry of the said period of four years; 

(iii) no person who is engaged directly or indirectly in any trade or business 
connected with the manufacture of drugs shall be appointed as a Govern- 
ment Analyst for any area”. 

4. In the said rules, in rule 65, in sub-rule (16) after the words “Inspection Book” 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted, namely: — 

“in Form 35". 

5. In the said rules, in rule 71, in sub-rule (1), after the proviso, the following further 
proviso shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Provided further that the Licensing Authority may, in the matter of manufacture 
of disinfectant fluids, insecticides, liquid paraffin, medicinal gasses, non- 
chemical contraceptives, plaster of Paris and surgical dressings, for the 
manufacture of which the knowledge of Pharmaceutical chemistry or Phar- 
macy is not essential, permit the manufacture of the substance under the 
active direction and personal supervision of the competent technical staff, 
who, although not having any of the qualifications included in clauses (a), 
(b) or (c) of this rule, has, in the opinion of the Licensing Authority, 
adequate experience in the manufacture of such substance*” 

6. In the said rules, in rule 74. in clause (f) after the words “Inspection Book" 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted, namely: — 

"in Form 35”. 



4903 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA II, 1890 


7. In the said rules, in rule 74-A, after clause (f) the following clause shall b 4 Inserted, 
namely; — 

“(g) the licensee shall maintain an Inspection Book, in Form 35, to enable an 
Inspector to record his impressions and the defects noticed”. 

8 . In the said rules, in rule 78, in sub-rule (I), after the words “Inspection Book” 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted, namely; — 

“in Form 35". 

9. In the said rules, in rule 85H in clause (d) after the words “Inspection Book” 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted, namely : — 

“in Form 35". 

10. In the said rules, in rule 96, in sub-rule (1), in sub-clauso (v), the words “manu- 
factured in India” shall be omitted, 

11. In the said rules, in rule 142, in clause (f) after the words “Inspection Book” 
wherever they occur, the following words and figures shall be inserted, namely: — 

"in Form 35". 

12. In the said rules, in Schedule ‘A’ (i) in Form 8 , for the figures “XXVII", the 
figures “XXIII" shall be substituted. 

(ii) after Form 34, the following Form shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Form 35 

{See rules 65. 74, 74A, 78, 85H and 142). 

Form in which the Inspection Book shall be maintained 

A. The cover of the Inspection Book shall contain the following particulars, namely:— 

1. The name and udddress of the Licensee 

2. Licenco number and the date upto which the licence is valid 

B, (i) The pages of the Inspection Book shall be serially numbered and duly stamped 
by the Licensing Authority. The pages, other than the first and Ihe last pages, shall have 
the following particulars: — 

‘Name and designation of the Inspector who inspects the premises of the 

Licensee 

Date of Inspection 

Observations of the Inspector 

Signature of the Inspector.’ 

(ii) The first and last pages, of the Inspection Book shall be endorsed by the Licensing 
Authority with tho following words, namely: — 

‘Inspection Book maintained by M/s 

situated at for . licence number in 

Form under Drugs and Cosmetic Rules. 

Seal and signature of the Licensing Authority.’ 
Notes. — (i) Printed copy of the Inspection Book may be obtained by the licensee 
from the Licensing Authority on payment. 

(ii) The Inspection Book shall be maintained at the premises of the Licensee. 

(iii) The observations made by the Drugs Inspector shall be in triplicate. The 
original copy shall be retained in the Inspection Book to be maintained in the 
premises of the Licensee. The duplicate copy shall be sent to the Licensing 
Authority. The triplicate copy shall be taken as record by the Inspector.” 

14. In the said rules, (i) in Schedule C, for entry 12, the following entry shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“12. Any other preparation which is meant for parenteral administration as such 
or after being made up with a solvent or medium or any other sterile pro- 
duct and which — - 

(a) requires to be stored in a refrigerator; or 

(b) does not require to be stored in a refrigerator.” 



4904 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA I] , 1890 [Part If— 

15. In the said rules, in Schedule F, in part IX, for the heading “Any other preparations 
in a form to he administered parenterally”, the following heading shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“Any other preparations including water for injection in a form to be administered 
parenterally”. 

16. In the said rules, for Schedule J, the following Schedule shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“Schedule I 
(See rule 106) 

Diseases and ailments (by whatever name described) which a drue may not purport to 

prevent or cure 

1. Appendicitis. 

2. Arteriosclerosis. 

3. Blindness. 

4. Blood Poisoning, 

5. Bright's disease. 

6. Cancer. 

7. Cataract. 

8. Deafness. 

9. Diabetes. 

10. Diseases and disorders of the optical system. 

11. Diseases and disorders of the brain. 

12. Diseases and disorders of the uterus. 

13. Disorders of menstrual flow. 

14. Disorders of the nervous system. 

15. Disorders of the prostatic gland. 

16. Dropsy. 

17. Epilepsy. 

18. Female diseases (in general). 

19. Fevers (in general). 

20. Fits. 

21. Gall stones, kidney stores and bladder stones. 

22. Gangrene. 

23. Glaucoma. 

24. Goitre. 

25. Heart diseases. 

26. High or low blood pressure. 

27 Hydrocele. 

28. Hysteria. 

29. Infantile paralysis 

30. Insanity. 

31. Leprosy, 

32. Leucoderma. 

33. Lockjaw. 

34. Locomotor Ataxia. 

35. Lupus, 

36. Nervous debility. 

37. Obesity, 

38. Paralysis. 

39. Plague. 



4905 


Sec. 3(i/)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 

40. Pleurisy. 

41. Pneumonia. 

42. Rheumatism. 

43. Ruptures. 

44. Sexual impotence, 

45. Smallpox. 

46. Sterility in women. 

47. Trachoma. 

48. Tuberculosis. 

49. Tumours. 

50. Typhoid fever. 

51. Ulcers of the gastrointestinal tract. 

52. Venereal diseases, including syphilis, gonorrhoea, soft chancre, venereal granu- 

loma and lympho granuloma)”. 

[No. F.I-14/68-D.] 
L. K. MURTHY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT & REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 17 th October 1968 

S O. 3870.. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (T) of section 4 of the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act. 1948 (9 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following Scheme further to amend the Calcutta Unregistered 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, the same having been previously 
published as required by the said sub-section, namely : — • 

1. This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation 
of Employment) Third Amendment Scheme, 1968. 

2. In clause 6-A of the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employ- 
ment) Scheme, 1957, after item (c), the following item shall be inserted, namely : — 

“(d) keeping and maintaining, from time to time, a list of dock workers and removing 
from the list the name of a dock worker cither at his own request or in 
accordance with the provisions of this Scheme”. 


[No. 61/2/68-Fac.IT.j 
J. D. TEWARL Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


New Delhi, the 11 th October 1968 


S.O. 3871. — -Jn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act from Shri C. R, Goswami, Fitter (Electrical) Nandlni Mines C/o 
Secretary, S. K. M. Sangh, Post Office Nandini Mines, District Durg (Madhya Pradesh), 
which was received by tbe Central Government on the 9th October, 1968 



4806 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/K ARYIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part II — 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TR1 BUNA L-CCA/- LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

Dated, August 28, 1968 


Present - 

Sri G. C. Agarwala — Presiding Officer. 

(1) Case No. CGIT/LC(B)(1 )/68 U/S 33(2) (b) I D. Act. 

[Arising out of Case Ref. No. CGrr/I.,C(R)(151)/67.] 

Parties: 

Agent /Superintendent, Ore Mines and Quarries. Bhilai Steel Plant. Bhilai. Distt. 
Durg (MP.) — Applicant. 


Vs. 

Shri C. R. Goswami, Fitter/Electrical, Nandini Mines — Opposite Party. 

(2) Case No. CGIT/LC(A)(l)/68 U/S 33-A ID. Act. 

[Arising out of Case Ref. No. CGIT/LC(R)(151)/67.] 

Parties: 

Shri C. R. Goswami, Fitter (Elec.), Nandini Mines C/o Secretary, S. K. M. Sangh, 

P.O. Nandini Mines, Distt., Durg (M.P.) — Complainant. 

Vs. 

The Superintendent, Ore Mines Quarries, Bhilai Steel Plant, Bhilai, District Durg 
(M.P.).. — Opposite Party. 

Appearances: 

For Bhilai Steel Plant — S/Sri M. R. Raju, Senior Labour Officer & K. G- Marar, 
Asstt. Law Officer. 

For Sri Goswami — Sri P. K. Thakur, Vice President, S. K. M. Sangh. 

Industry: Lime Stone District: DURO (M.P.) 

ORDER/AWARD 

These are two cases which have been consolidated by an order dated 
3rd April, 1968. The management of Bhilai Steel Plant through the Agent /Superinten- 
dent Ore Mines and Quarries filed an application under Sec. 33(2)(b) I.D, Act against 
the Opposite Party, Sri C. R. Goswami, Electrical Fitter. Nandini Mines, for approval 
of an action of removal from service which did not disqualify him for future employ- 
ment on 28th December, 1967. Before notice in the case could reach the Opposite Party, 
Sri C. R. Goswami. to be hereinafter called Goswami. filed an application under Sec. 33-A 
against the aforesaid Superintendent complaining of the contravention of provisions of 
Sec. 33 I.D. Act, not having been aware that the management had alreadv moved an 
application for approval of the action because of the pendency of case Ref. No. 151 / 
1967. The application by the management under Sec. 33(2)(b) I.D. Act was made the 
leading and evidence was recorded in that case. Sri Goswami. the Opp, Party, was 
charge-sheeted on a report of Sri K. N. Pathenkar. Asstt. F.lectrical Engineer, under whom 
he was a Fitter complaining that on 3rd Mav, 1967 at about 9 a.m. while he was at the 
Control Room, Goswami had first demanded the reason why ho had written a letter 
dated 2nd May, 1967 for his absence on duty and on his replying that he had done it on 
a report received. Goswami flared up. abused him filthily and assaulted him by holding 
his chin and pushing him back. The incident was witnessed bv two other F.lectrical 
Fitters S/Sri B, G. Kotwani and K. C. Saxena and by Sri S. C. Biswas, Chargeman. On 
the report of the Asst. Engineer. Sri K, N. Pathenkar fF.x, E/1) Sri T. P M. Sunderam 
Minos Manager suspended Goswami on 4th May, 1967 (Ex. E/2). He was charge- 
sheeted on 10th May, 1967 for using abusive language pulling Sri Pathenkar by the chin 
and pushing him as also for threatening him (Ex. E/3 and E/3 A). Sri Goswami by bis 
reply dated 17th May, 1967 (Ex. E/4) denied the allegations and complained that he 
was being victimised. He is Vice President of the Branch Union, S. K, M. Sangh. and 
took an active part in union activities and had even gone on hunger strike. Officers of 
the management were hostile to him and therefore, he was being denied promotion and 
harassed. The Superintendent, Sri K. K. Scngupta, ordered constitution of an Enquiry 
Committee with Sri Jai Kumar, Personnel Officer, as Enquiry Officer, on 27th June. 1967 
(Ex- E/5). The Enquiry Officer held enquiry on two dates, the first on 11th August, 1967 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARHKA 11, 1890 


4907 


and the second on 25th August, 1967. In the enquiry, Goswami was represented by 
Sri C. R, Buxi, who is President of the Union. There was no special representative of the 
management. It may be mentioned that before the charge-sheet there was a fact finding 
Preliminary enquiry by a committee comprising of two officers and in that enquiry, besides 
Sri K. N. Pathenkar, S /Sri K. C. Saxena, B. G. Kotwani, and S. C. Biswas, had been 
examined (Ex. E/12). It is on the basis of this preliminary enquiry which was held on 
the same date on which the incident took place i.e. 3rd May. 1967, that on report of 
the Mines Manager, the Opposite Party was charge-sheeted. In the domestic enquiry 
these very witnesses, namely S/Sri K. C. Saxena, B, G. Kotwani and S. C. Biswas, were 
examined. They were, however, not examined afresh but their statements recorded in 
the preliminary enquiry wore read over and copied out in domestic enquiry. The represen- 
tative of the Opposite Party thereafter cross-examined the witnesses, After the conclusion 
of the management’s witnesses, two witnesses were exaihined by Goswami. One was Sri 
Dhanraj Singh Yadav who stated that he had no knowledge and was not an eye witness. 
Another witness, Sri Jogendra Singh, however, supported the version of Goswami that 
on receipt of the warning letter in the morning of 3rd May, 1967, both S/Sri Goswami 
and Pathenkar entered the Control Room of the Crushing Plant and Goswami enquired 
from Sri Biswas in presence of Sri Pathenkar, if ho had reported against him on the 
previous date about absence from duty. Sri Biswas replied in negative. Goswami 
thereafter only charged Sri Pathenkar for falsely concocting evidence so as to debar his 
promotion. Nothing further occurred and Sri Pathenkar left the room. After the state- 
ment of Goswami and his witnesses had been recorded, his representative filed a note of 
written arguments on the same date which was 25th August, 1967. The Enquiry Officer 
then recorded a finding (Ex. E/10) on 30th August, 1967 and in consequence of which 
the order of removal was passed on 28th December, 1967 (Ex. E/ll). It may be 
mentioned that the application for approval was filed simultaneously and so was the 
tender made for payment of one month's wages. 

2. Goswami in his reply challenged the domestic enquiry as having been unfair and 
impartial. It was alleged that the Enquiry Officer cross-examined extensively witnesses 
of both parties and the finding was perverse. It was further contended that the proviso 
to Sec. 33 (2) (b) had not been complied with a fact which was not pressed in arguments 
and has not been shown how the proviso has not been complied with. It was next 
pleaded that the Agent/Supdt. Ore Mines and Quarries was not the employer and there- 
fore could not pass the order in question. This was also not pressed. It was also 
alleged that provision of Sec. 33(3) ID. Act was contravened but this plea also was not 
pressed. Lastly, it was alleged that the charge-sheet was mala fulc and he has been 
victimised 

3. To prove that Goswami was r. concerned workman in parent case Ref. No. 151/67 
Sri C. R. Buxi, Vice President of the Union, Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, was 
examined. He is also President of Nandini Branch of S. K. M. Sangh. He proved that 
Goswami had been Joint Secretary of the Branch upto 1963 and was Vice President when 
he was dismissed. He admitted that although the Union had been sending letters, the 
last of which is Ex. W/l to recognise office bearers of’ the branch including Goswami 
tis “protected workman" yet management by reply (Ex. W/2) intimated that they were 
not prepared to recognise the nominated workers as “protected" workmen Inasmuch as this 
was not in conformity with Rule 61(1) of I.D. (Central) Rules. That being so, the 
question of breach of Sec. 33(3) did not arise and was, therefore, not pressed. 

4. After it was proved that Goswami was a concerned workman in the parent case 
Ref. No. 151/67 which was about m inin g allowance, to prove the record of enquiry, 
management examined the Enquiry Officer, Sri V. P. Jaikumar, on 30th May, 1968. After 
his evidence was recorded and arguments had been heard, without recording a categorical 
finding whether the enquiry stands vitiated or not, it was considered desirable to call 
lor evidence on merits of the misconduct also for which the Opp. Party had been charge- 
sheete dand dismissed. The management, therefore, examined Sri K. N. Pathenkar 
Ufl.W. 2) and three witnesses who were examined in the domestic enquiry also, namely 
t> /Sri B. G. Kotwani, K. C. Saxena and S. C. Biswas (E.Ws. 3, 4 & 5). The Opp. Party 
examined himself and one more witness Sri A B. Roy who was not an eye 
viltness but stated that Goswami got a letter dated 2nd May, 1967 read by him and he 
saw both S/Sri Goswami and Pathenkar entering the Control Room but nothing further. 
'I he witness examined by him in the enquiry, namely Jogendra Singh, was not examined 
before this Tribunal. The first infirmity in the enquiry which at the outset appeared 
I rave enough to vitiate the enquiry was the fact that statements recorded in the preliminary 
enquiry were read over and admitted in the domestic enquiry and no fresh statements 
were recorded. This procedure had been criticised by the Hon’ble Supreme Court at 
least in two cases, Keshoram Cotton Mills, Ltd., vs. Gangadhar and others [1963TLLLJ 
p. 452 and Kardah & Co, Ltd. vs. Its workmen, 1963 (Il)LLJ p. 452]. But on a close 



4908 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, I968/KARTTKA 1 1 , 1890 [Part If— 


examination of the question If. however nnn“irs that although it wee desirable to have 
recorded the statements afresh vet that would have been a mere formality. The state- 
ments were reproduced and recorded in the enquiry and were admitted by the witnesses. 
Thev were extensively cross-examined by Sri C. R. Buxi. the Union representative. He 
made no complaint that he should have been supplied with copies and should be given 
sufficient time so as to cross-examine them. As a matter of fact, after the evidence was 
closed, he filed written note and in which while he commented on the evidence (here was 
not the least suggestion made that any prejudice was caused bv the procedure adopted 
bv the Enauirv Officer. To the 1*W n-r-tcosnli he ndmirte/1 the reeeint of true conics of 
statements mode before the preliminary enom'rv end read over ip the departmental 
enquiry. He further admitted that he was fully satisfied with the manner in which the 
departmental enquiry had been conducted. Tt is. therefore, too late in the day to contend 
now that the procedure was tri-poni-ir As a matter of fact if is t always that an 
enauirv would stand vitiated for this reason. Tn Keshoram Cotton Mil's case,, their 
lordsbirs of the fitIT'Tm'' Penrt oF op ohrervatrOn mode TP qp-te of Mvore 

Vs. Shivahasanna Shivanna Makannr TA.T.R. 1963 fS.C.l 3751 and stated that the piles 
of tiaitiral instire would he the t-pi" fo r '--vu nndca Art, 3U of (he Constitution 
against Government servants as also against Indusfriel emnlovees. But where in enquiries 
lawyers arc not permitted and the union renresentative Is also generally not allowed in 
domestic enquiries nT-e v j 0 naiT, P reeo^, f i statements should not he admitted Tl is, how- 
ever, a question of fact to he determined in each case. Tn the instant case there had 
been no real violation of principles of natural justice bv admitting the statements recorded 
ll the nreliminarv enquiry when Goswami and Tbs representative, Sri Buxi. the Union 
th'ce President, raised no objection and cross-examined the witnesses on the strength of 
those statements. Tt may he mentioned thn* In the rcnlv filed to the nnnlicndon nlso no 
grievance was made about It. The ground has been taken ontv at the stage of arguments. 

5, The next inflrmifv which anneared noticeable was the fact that the Enauirv Officer 
cross-examined the witnesses. This evidently hr had to do as there was no management’s 
representative. Th° Enauirv Officer is entitled tn hut questions tn witnesses tn ehieidnfe 
facts. Phi fin shoilld Tint rlnsr'i, rrnss.nT'Tmfnc them TTe h Q d nut nn'hliist tn mnnncre- 

ment’s witnesses as also to defence witnesses He also cross-examined Goswami which hr 
should not hav" dnn<> Ouestinm- "pf to Onswn'm! however, were noi timh as to show 
that the Enqnlrv Officer indulged in any close cross-examination with a view to shatter 
’him. Since however, the representative of the Onn, P~rtv 9ri Put! and Goswami 
himself did not complain rihoBt it in the written note submitted to thr F'uo'drv Officer 
and as a matter of fact admitted the fairness of the ePmu’rv. this far* bv itself would not 
he indicative of anv lack of bonaflde and infraction of anv nrincip'o of natural lustier, 
Finding of the Eunuirv Officer is tw nt nti remana nod is based bv the evidence on three 
eye witnesses besides that of Shri Pathenkar himself. 

6, Even If the enquiry is treated to be vitiated for anv violation of principles of natural 

fustier, the management has given necessary evidence about the incident. Sri Pathenkar 
examined himself as E.W. 2 and narrated th° Incident He gave a categorical statement 
stating the filthv abuses Used bv Goswami and tbe far* that he was hpld hv the rhin and 
unshed. The, version was supported bv three other Witnesses, namelv S/Sri B. G TCofwani. 
K. C. Saxena and S. C. Biswas fE.Ws. 3 4. 5V As against this the evidence of Goswami 

comprised of his own statement only. His witness, Sri A B For fW W 2d, was not an 

eve witness of the occurrence but what he claimed to have .seen a n anterior happening 
outside the Control Room. Tt is doubtful that he could have been at afi present as his 
shift timing was over at 6 A M and the occurrence took place at about 9 A.M. Tn anv 
case, the version as stated hv Sri Pathenkar Is cmlfe trust-worthv. Tt does not stand to 
reason that an engineer would make himself hero of an unsavoury incident and suffer 
the indignitv of an allegation of abuses and nssult at the hands of his subordinate 

There must have been substantial truth In the allegation. There was sufficient cause for 

provocation to Goswami. he having received a leper dated 2nd Mav. 1967 In which he 
had been warned bv Sri Pathenkar for having been found absent from bis scat. Goswami 
rightlv or wrongly bad been labouring under an impression that tfif. officers had hern 
nniust In deuving him promotion. With this background in hi? mind, it is hut natural 
to expect that he indulged in this offensive behaviour. 

Decision : 

The result is that approval a? prayed bv the management of the Bhilai Steel Plant is 
granted. The application of Sri C. R. Goswami under Sec. 33-A is dismissed there having 
been no breach of Sec. 33(2)(b) T.D. Act. 

(Sd ) G. C. Antnwu ». 

Presiding Officer. 

“28-8-1968. 
fNo. 37|39[68-T.RT] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZ E TTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTHCA 11, 1890 


S.O. 3872. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 04 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Arbitrator in 
the Industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation, 31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1 and their workmen, represented 
by Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union, 
31, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta-1 which was received by the Central Government on the 
4th October, 1968. 


BEFORE SRI N. K. CHADDHA, ARBITRATOR. 
Arbitration in Industrial Dispute. 


Between 

Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta and their workmen represent- 
ed by Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) 
Employees’ Union. 


Present: 

Sri N. K. Chaddha — Arbitrator, 

Appearance: 

For the employer — Sri P. Mandal, Legal Adviser, Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation, Calcutta. 

For the workmen — Sri Gouri Shankar, Member of the Working Committee, Bengal 
Bank Employees’ Federation, Calcutta. 

ARBITRATION AWARD UNDER SECTION 10A OF THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES 

ACT, 1947. 

The Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, 3 1 , Dalhousie 
Square Calcutta-1 and their workmen represented by the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union. 31, Dalhousie Square. Calcutta- 1 by a 
written agreement dated the 22nd Mav. 1968 in pursuance of the provisions under sub- 
section (1) of Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) agreed to 
refer the industrial dispute existing between them over the question of grant of special leave 
to'13 workmen for absence on the 28th February. 1968 in terms of the Bank's notice doted 
the 19th March. 1968 and refund of the wages deducted for that day, l.e. 78th February. 
1968. to mv arbitration. The Government of Tndia in the Ministry of l abour. Employ- 
ment and Rehabilitation. In pursuance of the provisions of Sub-Section (3) of Section 10A 
Of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947V published the said arbitration agreement 
which was received bv them on the 1st June. 1968 by their Notification No. 24121/68 
LRm. dated 21st .Tune, 1968 In Part-TI Section 3 Sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India 
dated 19th June, 1968. 

The following specific matter in dispute was referred to my arbitration :— 

Specific matter in dispute 

Whether the following workmen are entitled to special leave for absence on 28th 
February, 1968 in terms of the Bank's notice dated 19th March, 1968. 

Names of workmen 


1. Din Mohd. 

2. Mohd. Raflque. 

3. Mohd. All. 

4. Mohd. ShaflqUe. 

5. Musaraf Hossain Khan, 

6. Mohd. Habib Khan TT. 

7. Nisar Ahtned Khan. 

8. Khalil Ahmed. 

9. Mohd. Osman. 

10. Mohd. Vasin. 

11. Fatebahadur Khan. 

12. Bimbahadnr Das alias Bimbadher Das, 

13. Bhamra Nayack. 

On receipt of the copy of Gazette Notification, the parties were requested to submit 
their wTitten statement bv 24th Jtilv. 1968. W de mv letter No. Cal. 51 (21 )/RT C/68, dated 
12th Inly, 1968 endorsing a copy thereto to the opposite party in order to facilitate each 



49io 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTTKA 1 1, 3 890 [Part II - 


of them to furnish their counter-comments to mo endorsing a copy to other party. 
Accordingly the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ 
Union and the management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta 
submitted their written statements to me vide their letter dated 19th July, 1968 and 24th 
July, 1968 respectively. The Management of the Hongkong Sc Shanghai Banking Cor- 
poration, Calcutta also submitted their counter statement vide their letter dated tOth July, 
1968. 

The parties were heard in person on 14th August, 1968 Sri P. Mandal, Legal Adviser 
represented the Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta 
and Sri Gourl Shankar. Member of the Working Committee, Bengal Bank Employees' 
Federation, Calcutta represented the workmen in the said proceedings. 

The case of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) 
Employees’ Union in the instant dispute in nut-shell, is as follows : — 

Members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) 
Employees’ Union, Calcutta were opposed to the alleged illegal strike of 28th February, 
1968 sponsored by the All-India Bank Employees’ Association, and accordingly on that 
day i.e. 28th February, 1968, according to the decision of the Union, all the members 
of the Union including those who were residing in the bank premises assembled in the 
Dalhousie Square in the proximity of the Bank premises with a view to joining duty 
en masse, but the situation at the bank’s gate, due to heavy picketing hv the members of 
the rival Union sponsoring the strike, being too abnormal, they could not join their duties 
On the 19th of March, 1968, the Management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation, Calcutta released a notice inviting applications from those employees who 
did not participate in the aforesaid strike, explaining the reasons for not attending their 
duties on 28th February, 1968. The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
(Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union, Calcutta vide its letter dated 20th March, 1968 
addressed to the Manager explained the circumstances whic(h stood in the way of their 
members from joining duties on 28th February. 1968. The Management of the Bank, 
however, wanted vide their letter dated 22nd March, 1968 that individual employees 
should explain separately about their absence and accordingly on 28th March, 1968 a 
joint application of the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation 
(Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union explaining the reason of their not being able to ioln 
duties on 28th February, 1968 was submitted to the Bank. Application from those who 
were on leave on 28th February, 1968 were submitted to the Bank on their return. The 
Management of the Bank were, however, not satisfied with the explanation so tendered 
by the members of the aforesaid Union and deducted their salaries for one day i.e. 28th 
February, 1968 from the salary for the month of April, 1968. Tn the circumstances, this 
Union raised an industrial dispute before the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Calcutta on 8th May, 1968. The Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Calcutta took 
up the dispute in conciliation on 22nd May. 1968 when a settlement was arrived at 
between the parties resulting in payment of salary for the 28th February, 1968 to 40 mem- 
bers involved in the dispute. The case of 13 employees which now forms the subject 
matter of the present reference could not be settled in conciliation in as much as the 
Management of the Bank considered that as 1 1 of them normally reside within the Bank’s 
premises, there was no justification for them to be absent on the day of strike on 28th 
February, 1968, 

Both the parties argued their case before me at length and the proceedings were con- 
cluded on 14th August, 1968. 

The representative of the Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta 
Branch) Employees’ Union, during the arguments before me, stated that prior to 28th 
February. 1968 their members gave a declaration to the Management of the Hong Kong 
& Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta, through the Union that they would not parti- 
cipate in the strike on 28th February, 1968. Accordingly, in their zealous bid to join 
their duties on the day of strike on 28th February, 1968, almost ail the members of the 
Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union, includ- 
ing those who were residing in the Bank premises, assembled in front of the Bank for 
reporting for duty. The reason behind their assembling at a spot being that it would be easier 
for them to enter into the bank premises collectively. Their attempt was, however, foiled 
due to heavy picketing at the Bank's gate by the striking employees led by other Union, 
Even those two of their members who could somehow report for duty on the said date, 
had to cancel their attendance and Ioave the place of work under force and intimidation. 
No protection whatsoever was provided by the Bank management for the willing workers. 
The Union, therefore, argued that in the circumstances of the case, the 13 workmen 
under reference, should also be treated on par with those 40 workmen referred to above 



49ii 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


by granting them special leave for 28th February, 1968 and wages for the said day so 
deducted should be refunded to them, 


The representative of the management of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, 
Calcutta argued that there could not be any question of these 13 workmen having come 
to resume their normal duties and being prevented from entering into the Bank due to 
picketing of the Bank’s gate inasmuch as the Management considered that as all of them 
normally reside within the Bank’s premises, there was no iustifleation for them to be 
absent. These 13 workmen were, therefore, not entitled to special leave and their claim 
in the present reference should be dismissed. The representative of the management 
further maintained that staff residing in the Bank’s premises ought not to have come out 
on the_ dav of strike on 28th February, 1968 to create a situation making it impossible 
on their part to enter into the Bank for duty. They were, therefore, to bear the conse- 
quence of their own faulty decision. As regards Sri Din Mohammed, Tamdar, one of 
the 13 workmen under reference, who actually joined the duties, but did not sign the 
attendance register, the representative of the management stated that since Sri Din 
Mohammed had stated, in writing, that he could not ioin duties due to picketing in the 
Bank’s gate, the management had no other alternative than to treat him at par with other 
12 workmen in question who normally put up within the office premises and who allegedly 
chose to go out knowing that they might be prevented from re-entering the Bank. 


When asked, Sri Mandal. representative of the management, however, admitted that 
although the Officers of the Bank did report for duty on 28th February, 1968, they could 
not enter the Bank’s premises due to heavy picketing at the gate. He, of course, pleaded 
ignorance of the fact that these 13 workmen went out of the Bank premises on 28th 
Fberuary, 1968 to reenter along with the other willing workers at the start of the dutv 
hours of the Bank. Instead, as far as the Management were concerned, they considered 
them to be present inside the Bank premises and as such it was incumbent on them to 
report for duty. 


I have gone through the written statements of both the parties and have heard their 
arguments in support of their respective stands. I And that the Management of the 
Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Calcutta knew before hand through the 
General Secretary, Bengal Bank Employees' Federation who called on the Manager of the 
Bank earlier, that the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta 
Branch) Employees’ Union were opposed to the strike sponsored at the instance of All- 
India Bank Employees’ Association on 28th February, 1968, T also find from the written 
statement of the Union and the arguments its representative advanced in course of hearing, 
that there is no iota of doubt that the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking 
Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union including the 13 workmen under reference, 
wqre not in favour of the aforesaid strike and were actually ardent to attend their duties on 
the day of the strike. It is apparent from the facts placed before me tbqt neither these 13 
workmen who were residing in the Bank’s premises nor the leaders of the Hongkong & 
Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Employees’ Union could anticipate the 
measure of risk involved in leaving the bank premises first and then re-entering at tho 
start of the duty hours on the dav of strike on 28th February. 1968. In all probability 
these 13 workmen In question would not have ventured to make such a plan had they 
been in a position to foresee the danger involved. To me It appears that all the attention 
of the members of the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) 
Employees’ Union including these 13 workmen under reference was centred around their 
eagerness to exhibit their willingness to join duties by defying the action of the All India 
Bank Employees’ Association in launching strike on 28th February, 1968. 


The Management of the Bank have, as I find from the foregoing, already considered 
the cases of 40 employees who were willing to ioin duties on 28th February, 1968 but 
could not do so due to heavy picketing etc. at the Bank’s gate. They have been granted 
special leave and the wages deducted for one day on 28th February, 1968 have been 
refunded to them. Tn juxtaposition to this fact the management’s action in treating these 
13 workmen under reference on a different footing bv refusing grant of special leave and 
refund of the wages deducted for the said day i.e. 28th February. 1968 does not appeal 
to me. I am led to this conclusion because probably this was the first time when the 
staff residing in the Bank's premises had left the place of stay on such occasion, Besides. 
I do not find that the Bank had released any notice earlier prohibiting the staff residing 
within the Bank’s premises from going out during off hours without the knowledge of the 
Management, 



4912 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 189(1 [Part II - 


I, therefore, direct that these 13 workmen under reference be granted special leave for 
28th February, 1968 and the wages for that day so deducted from their salary for the 
month of April, 1968 be refunded to them immediately. 

(Sd.) N. K. Chadoha, 

Arbitrator and Regional l abour Commissioner, 

(Central), Calcutta. 

[No. 24/21/68 /LRIIL] 


New Delhi, the 25 th October 1968 

S.O. 3873 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Now Great Insurance Company of India Limited, and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 14th October, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY. 

Reference No. CGIT-2 or 1967 

Parties: 

F.mpoyers in relation to the New Great Insurance Company of India Limited. 

And 

their workmen. 


Present: 

Shri A. T. Zambre, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

For the employers . — Shri E. S. Ramakrishnan, Deputy General Manager of the 
company. 

For the workmen.— Shu K. S. B. Pillai, Joint Secretary, All India Insurance 
Employees’ Association. 

State : Maharashtra. Industry : General Insurance. 

Bombay, the 16 th September 1968 
AWARD 

The Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment have by their 
Order No. 74(13)/66-LRIV, dated 7th January, 1967 referred to this Tribunal for adjudi- 
cation an industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the New Great 
Insurance Company of India Ltd. and their workmen represented by the All India 
Insurance Employees Association, Calcutta In respect of the following matters specified 
in the schedule to the said Order : — 


Schedule 

“Whether the following demands put forward hy the workmen are justified ? 

Charter of Demands 

All the demands contained herein below shall apply equally to all the employees 
employed throughout the country In the New Great Insurance Company of 
India Limited. 

I. Classification of Employees 

The employees will be classified into the following categories : — 

(a) Peons, Sweepers, Watchman, etc. shall be placed in Grade "A’’. 

(b) Drivers, Head Peons shall he placed in Grade ‘B\ 

(c) Record Clerks shall be placed in Grade ‘B*. 

(d) Assistants, Telephone Operators, Typists, Receiving and Paying Cashiers, 

comptists, Receptionists, etc., shall be placed in Grade ‘D’. 

(e) Junior supervisory staff variously termed as Higher Grade Assistants, Special 

Assistants, Senior Assistants, Head Typists, Sectional Heads, Cashiers and 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


Senior Cashiers, Head Cashiers, Head Clerks, Stenographers, etc. shall be 
placed in Grade ‘E\ 

(f) Senior Supervisory Stall, variously termed as Superintendents, Assistants 
Superintendents, Head Clerks, Sectional Heads, Branch Accountants, Junior 
Accountants, Claims Adjusters, etc., shall be placed in Grade ‘F’. 


II. Scales of Pay. 

Grade ‘A’ Rs. 120-5/6-150-6/7-192-8/6-240 in 19 years. 

Grade ‘B’ Rs. 180-6/2-192-8/6-240-10/6-300 in 16 years. 

Grade -C’ Rs. 196-6/3-214-10/5-264-12/3-300-15/4-360 in 15 years. 

Grade ‘D’ Rs. 200-15/4-260-20/7-400-25/4-500 in 15 years, 

Grade £ E’ Rs. 275-20/5-375-25/5-500-30/4-620 in 14 years. 

Grade ‘F’ Rs. 3 Jo-30/6-5 30-40/4-690 in 10 years. 

III, Dearness Allowance: 

Dearness Allowance shall be paid at the rate of 1-1/2 per cent, of basic pay for every 
rise of 5 points over the cost of living index figure of 360 (1939=100 Points) or 1 per cent- 
of basic pay for every rise of 1 point (one point) over the cost of living index figure of 
100 (1949--= 100 points) subject to a minimum of Rs- 50/-. 


IV. Adjustments and Merger of Dearness Allowance: 

An employee shall be fitted into new scales on a point to point basis. The Basic 
Pay and dearness allowance as on 30th June, 1965 shall be treated as basic pay only for 
the purpose of adjustment of basic pay to the new scales of pay. 

V. Special Allowance: 

Employees engaged in work mentioned below and/or designated as below shall be 
entitled to special allowance per mensem in addition to their salaries and emoluments 
in the manner stated below: — 

(a) Watchmen, Bank Peons, Despatch Peons, Stationery Peons, Doctor’s Peons, 

Duplicating Machine Operators, Delivery Peons and other peons who help 
in Clerical work such as filing policies attaching cJauses with necessary 
clauses. Telephone Relievers and such other employees: Rs. 20/- per month. 

N.B. All India Cost of Living Index shall be taken as the basis for calculation of 
the dearness allowance. 

(b) Typists, Stenographers, Comptists, Telephone Operators, Paying and Receiving 

Cashiers, Cash Assistants and such other employers: Rs. 30/- per month. 

VI. Special Increments: 


In addition, the employees shall be entitled to Special increments for passing .the 
.following examinations on the scale shown against such examinations: — 


(a) On Graduation ...... 

(h) On post Graduation or . 

Double Graduation . . . , . 

(c) On Typists being promoted as Stenos 

(d) Licentiate or A.C.I.I. Part I ... 

(e) A.F. XT. part I or A.C.I.I. Part IJ 

(f) A.F. I.I. part II or A.C.I.I. Part III 

(g) F.F. I.I. or F C, I.I 

Chartered Accountant or Diploma in Accountancy. 


2 Increments 


2 „ 

1 Increment for 
each part 
-do- 
-do- 
-do- 


VII. Other Allowances: 


(a) Overtime Allowance . — An employee working over-time after the Schedule working 
hours shall be entitled to Overtime Allowance for such period of work rendered at the 
rate of double the hourly rate of wages inclusive of special allowance and all other 
allowances. No employee shall be engaged in for overtime work for more than 90 hours 
in the calendar year, 

(b) Officiating Allowance. — (I) If an employee is required to officiate in a higher post, 
he shall be entitled to an Acting Allowance at the rate of 20 Der cent, of his salary for 
the period for which he officiates. 



4914 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Fast II— 


(2) II an employee is required to act in a post for which special pay is provided, he 
chall be entitled to pro-rata .special Allowance for the period of such work done. 

(c ) House Rent Allowance. — (i) All the employees shall be paid as House Rent 
Allowance a sum at the rato of 20 per cent of his salary per mensem, subject to minimum 
of Rs. 20/-. 

(ii) The Company shall arrange to provide Residential Accommodation to its employees 
or advance the cost thereof to be recovered from the employees’ salary in easy instalments. 

(d) Lunch Allowance. — Every person shall be paid lunch allowance of Rs. 2/ per 
each working day. 

(e) Every employee shall be paid a conveyance allowance of Rs. 10/- per month. 

(f) Senior Supervisory Stall', variously termed as Superintendents, Assistant 
allowance of Rs, 10/- per month for washing their uniforms. 

VIII. Amenities: 

(i) Text Books for A.C-I.I. or Federation of Insurance Institute Examination shall 

be supplied by the Company in turn. Examination Fee shall be paid by the 
employer after the employee has passed the examination. 

(ii) Adequate subsidy shall be given for sports, recreation and Cultural activities 

of the employees. 

(iii) All the employees shall be entitled to a Free Personal Accident (Annual Policy) 

the premiums of which shall be borne by the employers. The Sum Assured 
of such Policy shall be Rs. 10,000/-. 

(iv) Adequate subsidy shall be given for cheap canteens for supply of wholesome 

food to the employees in each of the Office premises. 

(v) Two Cups of Tea, one in the morning and one in the afternoon shall be 

supplied free of charge to each employee on all working days. 

(vi) The Company shall provide a Tiffin Room with sitting accommodation for the 

purpose of lunch, tea etc., such rooms shall be allowed for preserving the 

Union’s records and other materials. 

IX. Free Medical Aid: 

All Medical expenses incurred by the employees and their family members shall be 
reimbursed by the employer without any reservation. For this purpose, Medical expenses, 
shall include Cost of Medicines, Doctor’s Bill, Specialists Fees, Cost of X-ray and other 
Special Expenses, Hospital Charges, Cost of Spectacles etc. as prescribed by any Registered 
Medical Practitioner. 

X. Gratuity: 

On retirement or retrenchment or on death or on total and permanent disability of an 
employee while in the service of the Company, 

One month’s basic salary for each year of continuous service subject to a maximum 
of 30 months basic salary. 

On resignation from service after completion of 3 years of continuous service. 
One month's basic salary for each year of continuous service subject to a maximum 
of 30 months basic salary, 

On termination of service by the Company, 

One month's basic salary for each completed year of service but not more than 
30 months basic salary. 

The salary for the purpose of calculating Gratuity shall be the terminal basic 
salary drawable by the employee previous to depth, disablement, retirement, 
resignation, retrenchment, or termination of service as the case may be. 

XI. Retirement Age: 

The age of retirement of an employee shall be 60 years. 

XII. Provident Fund: 

(i) AH permanent employees including part-time employee should be made mem- 

bers of the provident fund. 

(ii) The rate of contribution should be 10 per cent of total emoluments i.e. 

basic pay plus Dearness Allowance plus special allowance, if any, with 



Sec. 3(iij] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


equal contribution by the Company. The employees should, however, be 
allowed to contribute voluntarily upto 15 per cent, of their salary with- 
out corresponding contribution from the Company. 

(iil) Interest at a minimum rate of equal to the official Bank Rate of the country 
should be paid on the total contribution by the employee and Company. 

(iv) Unclaimed fund should be distributed pro-rata every year amongst tho existing 

employees from timo to time. 

(v) Full benefits of the fund should bo permitted to the employees on completion 

of 5 years of service. 

(vj) Loan from the provident fund to the extent of 6 months’ salary or of the 
employees own contribution shall be granted to the employees at a 
time without any restrictions. 

(vii) Board of Trustees . — On the Board of Provident Fund Trust, the workmen and 
the employer should have equal number of representatives. Workmen re- 
presentatives should be elected by themselves by simple majority of voles. 
Re-election of workman representatives should bo held every three years 
unless necessitated earlier by death or resignation or recall by a majority of 
the employees. 


XIII. Leave. 

(i) Casual Leave — 15 days Casual Leave should be given In a Calendar year. 

6 days Casual leave may be granted at a stretch. Casual leave may bo 
prefixed and suffixed to public holidays and Sundays. 

(ii) Privilege Leave. — Privilege leave should be allowed to all employees at the 

rate of 1 day for every 11 calendar days- Employees should be allowed 
to accumulate leave upto 6 months. Privilege leave should be allowed to 
be encashed. 

Return fare to the employee, his wife and dependents should be granted once 
in 2 ycaise for going any where in India. 

(iii) Sick Leave — 30 days’ sick leave per year should be allowed on full pay to 

the employees with a maximum accumulation of 12 months, during the 
service period. 

In case of prolonged illness further sick leave with half pay should be allowed 
upto 6 months more and another 6 months without pay. 

(i v) Maternity Leave , — Maternity leave upto the period of 3 months shall be allowed 

to all female employees, but in no case more than 6 weeks leave will be 
allowed from the date of confinement. 

(v) Furlough Leave Employees on retirement shall be granted 6 months leave 

as leave preparatory to retirement or 6 months total salary should be paid 
in lieu thereof. 

(vi) Examination Leave.- — Employees shall be allowed adequate leave for appearing 

in all the recognised examination in addition to all other leave. 

(vii) Special Leave. — Adequate leave shall be allowed to the Union Representatives 

and Office bearers of All India Insurance Employees’ Association and/or its 
affiliated unions to enable them to attend meetings and conferences of the 
Unions and their Central organisations and to participate in the Tribunals 
and Conciliation Proceedings. 

XIV. Security of Service'. 

No employee shall be victimised for Trade Union activities. 

XV. Working Hours: 

The working hours for employees in Clerical and Supervisory grade shall be 33 hours 
and for sub-staff members 36 hours during the week days working from Mondays to 
Fridays treating Saturdays and Sundays as week-end holidays. A grace time of 15 minutes 
shall be allowed before the employees are marked late 


XVI. Bonus: 

Customary. — Employees shall be paid three months basic salary as Bonus per year 
and the same shall be paid on or before 31st May of every year. 



49 16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part 11 — 


XVII. Uniform to Sub-Staff: 

A1I members of the sub-staff shall be provided with foUowing outfit annuaffy:— 
x. Summer Uniform — Goat, Shirt, Full Pant ..... 4 Sets. 

2 . Winter uniform — Full Pant. ........ i Set. 

3. Umbrella ........ I 

4 . Footwear ......... 2 pairs 

5. Rain Coat— One for those who are to do 
outdoor duties and drivers. 


XI. Recruitment : 

Recruitment sh&U be made from amongst the retrenched employees of the General 
Insurance Industry, registered in the Pool us demanded in the resolution adopted in the 
All India Convention of General Insurance Employees held on 15th and 16th August, 
I960 in Bombay under the auspices of the All India Insurance Employees’ Association. 
Only in case such employees arc not available in the Pool, recruitment might be made 
through local employment exchanges. In case of recruitment from among the retrenched 
employees, duo credit shaU be given to the past service and aH restrictions regarding age, 
educational qualifications, etc., appUcable to new recruits shall be waived, 

XX, Temporary Staff : 

No employee should be recruited on temporary basis. 

XXI. Confirmation: 

Employees shall be confirmed after 3 months' probationary service automatically. 
XXII Promotion: 

No direct recruitment shall be made in Higher Grade Assistant’s and supervisory grades 
and 1 all vacancies in these grades shall be filled in by way of promotion. The promotion 
shall be made on the basis of seniority and merits of the employees. Sub-staff members 
shaU be absorbed in the Assistant’s grade on passing S.S.C-, S.S.L.C. or equivalent 
examination. At all times the percentage of the employees in the Higher Grade Assistants 
and Supervisory grades shall not be less than 40 per cent and 20 per cent respectively 
of the total number of employees in all the three grades. 

XX1I1. Transfer: 

PH*.- 

~ No employee shall be transferred from one place to another without his/her consent. 
A transfer aUowance of Rs. 50/-, Rs. 75/- and Rs. 100/- respectively shall be paid to the 
employees in the Assistants’, Higher Grade Assistants’ and Supervisory grades when an 
employee agrees for transfer. 

XXIV. Heating Arrangement: 

During the winter season, where there are extremely cold climate such as Delhi, 
Lucknow, Nagpur, Amritsar etc., the employer shall arrange to provide with electric 
heating arrangements in the office premises. 

XXV. Holidays: 

All the Holidays declared under the Negotiable Instrument Act 1961 shall be paid 
holidays for the employees. But in case the number of holidays under the Negotiable 
Instruments Act is less than 22 days in a year the employees shall be given additional 
holidays for Festival days to make a total of 22 days. 

XXV. Date of Effect: 

All benefits stated in this Charter of Demands shaU have effect from 1st July, 1965. 
XXVII. Trade Union Rights: 

The all India Insurance Employees’ Association and its affiliated Units shaU be given 
due recognition and such facilities as providing Trade Union Offices and holding Trade 
Union Meetings in Office premises and hanging Notice Board of the Union should be 
granted. 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


XXVITf. Existing Rights and Privilege i: 

Nothing contained in this Charter shall adversely affect or take away from any employee 
or Group of employees any right, privilege or usages, practice or conventions, amenities 
or other conditions of service that are already vested in or enjoyed by such, employees 
or group of employees,” 

2. After the receipt of the reference notices were served and both parties filed their 
written statements in respect of the issues in the reference. There were in all 28 demands 
which related to and were made applicable equally to all the employees employed by 
the company throughout the country and the statement of claim filed by the Union runs 
over more than seventy-live pages. The company has by its written statement opposed 
the reference and raised various contentions requesting that the tribunal should lay stress 
on the economic consideration in preference to social only and the limitations and 
restrictions under which the company was working. However after prolonged negotiations 
both the parties have amicably settled the dispute and filed a joint application along with 
the memorandum of settlement dated 2nd September 1968 praying that an award may be 
passed in terms of the said settlement. 

3. The employers the New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd., arc represented 
by us Deputy General Manager Shri E. S. Ramakrishnan while the workmen are represented 
by Shri K. S. B. Pillai, Joint Secretary of the All India Insurance Employees’ Association 
Calcutta. Both of them who arc present today have signed the memorandum of settlement 
and have explained to me the terms of settlement, 

4. Tt is clear from the settlement that a part of the dearness allowance has been 
merged in the basic salaries. Provision has also been made for the minimum scale of 
pay which is to be made applicable in all branches by stages. A new scheme of dearness 
allowance is also evolved with a basic dearness allowance and it has been linked to the 
all India consumer price index. Provision has also been made for the grant of bouse 
rent allowance to the employees in the major cities of Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi and 
Madras, The management has also agreed to give additional increments for special 
qualifications and special allowances for special work. The terms of settlement are fair 
and reasonable and T think it proper to make an award in terms of the seltlement 
annexure ‘A’ which shall form part of this award. 

No order as to costs, 

(Sd.) A. T. Zambre, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. 

Annexuke ‘A’ 

Memorandum of Settlement 

Names of Parties, — The New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd.. Principal 
Office at 7. Jamshcdji Tata Road, Churchgatc Reclamation, Fort, Post Box 
No. 1126, Bombay. 

AND 

Workmen employed hy The New Great Insurance Company of India Ltd. in Bombay, 
Calcutta and Madras offices and other offices in Tndia. 

Representing Employer.— E. S. Ramakrishnan, Deputy General Manager, The New 
Great Insurance Company of India Limited. 

Representing Workmen. — K. S. B. Pillai, Joint Secretary, The All Tndia Insurance 
Employees Association, Calcutta. 

This settlement made this 2nd day of September 1968 between The New Great Insurance 
Company of India Ltd (hereinafter referred to as "the Company”) and the Workmen emoloy- 
ed by the Company in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras Offices and other offices in India 
represented by The All India Insurance Employees Association (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Union”). . >• 

Whereas the Union submitted a Charter of Demands on behalf of the workmen 
employed by the Company in its various offices. 

And whereas the Charter insofar as it relates to the Workmen was referred to adjudica- 
tion bv the Central Government Industrial Tribunal and was marked as Reference No. 
CGIT No. 2 of 1967. 

And whereas pursuant to further negotiations the parties have arrived at the following 
settlement to the intent that it will, be binding on parties under Section 18 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), 



4918 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER X 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part II— 

And now it Is hereby agreed hy and between the parties hereto as follows: — 

1. Commencement of the Settlement . — This settlement will apply to the workmen 
employed by the Company in Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras Offices with effect from 1st 
January 1967 and to workmen employed in other offices in Ihdia with effect from 1st 
January 1968. 

2. (a) Salary Scales . — The following salary scales shall be introduced in all the offices 
of the Company in India; 

(i) Assistants (clerks including typists and Rs. 15° — 8 — *9® — io — 258 — 12 — 330 — 
telephone operators). EB — 15 — 435 (in 25 years). 

(it) Stenographers . . . . , Rs. 174—8—198—10 — 258 — 12—330— 

EB — 15 — 4?o (in 23 years) 

(iff) Senior Assistants (including Sectional Rs. 200 — 12J — 250 — 15 — 340 — EB — 
Heads, Accountants or Superintendents 20 — 500 (in 18 years), 
in Branches and Divisional Offices 
wherever applicable). 

(iv) Sectional Heads (only in Bombay) . Rs. 295 — 15 — 370 — 20 — 490 — 25 — 590 

(in 15 years). 

(v) Record Clerks (only in Bombay) . Rs. no — 4 — 138 — 5 — 163 — 8 — 235 (in 

21 years). 

(vi) Drivers ...... Rs. 130 — 5 — 210 (in 16 years) 

(vii) Peons, Liftmen, Watchmen, Plumbers, Rs. 85 — 3 — 115 — 4 — 135 — 5 — 165 (in 21 

Gardeners. years). 

(wit) Wiremen/Electrician .... Rs. 130 — 8 — 178 — 10 — 238 — 12 — 310 — 

EB — 15 — 415 (in 25 years). 

(b) Classification . — The classification of individual workmen into grades (ii), (iii) 
and (iv) will be as mentioned in Schedule “A” hereto. 

(c) Adjustment. — 1. The following amounts will be added to the basic salaries drawn 
by the workmen as on 31st December, 1966 or 31st December, 1967. as the case may be 
as specified in Clause 1 herein above (that is depending upon whether the revised scales 
are applicable to the workmen on 1st January, 1967 or 1st January, 1968). 

1. Assistants, Stenographers, Senior Assistants, Sectional Heads . . Rs. 70/- 

2. Record Clerks, Drivers, Peons, Liftmen, Watchmen, Plumbers, 

Gardeners, Wiremen/Electricians. . . Rs, 50/- 

2. After addition of Rs 70/- or Rs. 50/- as the case may he in the basic salary of 
♦he workmen as provided in Clause 1 above, the basic salary derived under Clause (1) 
above will be fitted in the revised grades [vide 2(a)] in the following manner: — ■ 

(i) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is less than the 

starting basic salary of the respective revised scales shall he stepped up to 
the minimum of the revised scale. 

(ii) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is higher than the starting 

basic salary of the respective scales but which is not a step In the revised 
scale shall be stepped up to the next step in the revised scale. 

f iii) Workmen who would be in receipt of basic salary which is in step with a step 
in the revised scale shall be fitted at that step In the scale, 

Similar amounts will be added to the basic salaries in respect of workmen who were 
appointed after 1st January, 1967 and are employed in Bombay, Calcutta and Madras 
Offices and in respect of workmen employed after 1st January, 1968 in other Offices in 
Tndla. 

3. Dearness Allowance. — (A) In place of the existing dearness allowance scheme the 
following scheme of dearness allowance will be introduced when the All India Consumer 
Price Index Number (Base 1949=100) for working class is at 170. 

(a) For workmen employed at Bombay. Calcutta, Madras and New Delhi : 

Upto Basic salary Rs, iqo/- ..... Rs. 60 flat. 

Between 101 and 250 Rs. 60/- plus 30% of basic 

salary in excess of Rs, ico/- 

Rs. T05 /- (Rs. 60-J-45) plus 
20% of the basic salary in 
excessjof Rs. 250 /-. 


Between 251 and 350 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11. 1*90 4919 


Between 351 and 400 ...... Rs. 125/- (Rs. 604-454-20) plus 

15% of the basic salary 
in excess of Rs. 3 50/-. 

Between 401 and 500 ...... Rs. 132- 50 (Rs. 604-45+204.74) 

pins to% of basic salary in 
.excess of Rs. 400/". 

Abive Rs. 500 Rs. 142 'SO (Rs. 60+4++20+ 

74 + 10 ). 

D.A. will be paid as if monthly 
basic salary is Rs. 500/- i.e. 
no D.A. is payable on that 
portion of baisc salary over 
Rs. 500/-. 


(b) For workmen employed at Jaipur, Patna, Ahmed abad, Lucknow , Hyderabad, Bangalore, Nagpur 
and Kanpur : 


Upto basic salary Rs, too 
Between 101 and 250 

Between 251 and 350 
Between 351 and 500 
Above Rs. 500 


Rs, 40/- flat. 

Rs. 40/- plus 20% of the basic 
salary in excess of Rs. 100/-. 

Rs, 70/- (Rs. 40+30) pins 
ro% of the basic salary in 
excess of Rs. 250/-. 

Rs. 80/- (Rs. 40+30+10) plus 
5% of the basic salary’ in 
excess of Rs. 35 o/-. 

Rs. 87-5° (Rs- 40+30+10+7' 50)- 
D.A, will be paid as. if the 
salary is Rs. 500/- i.e. no 
D.A-is payable on that por- 
tion of basic salary over Rs. 
500/-. 


(c) For workmen employed at all other Offices in India : 


Upto basic salary Rs. 100 
Between toi and 250 

Between 251 and 350 
Between 35I and 500 
Above Rs. 500 


Rs. 20/- flat. 

Rs. 20/- 'plus 20% of the basic 
salary in excess of Rs. 100/- 

Rs. 50 1 - (Rs. 20+30) plus 10% 
of the basic salary in excess 
of Rs. 250/-. 

Rs. 60/- (Rs. 20+30+10) plus 
5% of the basic salary in 
excess of Rs. 350/-. 

Rs. 67-50 (Rs- 20+30+10+ 
7-50), D.A. will be paid 
as if 1 he monthly, basic 
salary is Rs. 500/- i.e. no 
D.A. is payable on that 
portion of basic salary over 
Rs. 500/-. 


(B) It is furtbe: agreed that for every rise or fall of one point in the quarterly 
average index number over or below 170, the D.A. payable on the basic salary will be 
increased or decreased, as the case may be, as under: — 



Basic salary Percentage 


For the first Rs. 1 00/- . . . . 1% of basic salary. 

For the bulancc amount of such balance 

of basic salary upto amount of basic 

Rs. 500/-. .... salary. 


4920 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part II- 


Provided, however, that the maximum dearness allowance payable under the scheme 
per month shall not exceed Rs. 350/- in respect of workmen employed in Offices mentioned 
in Sub-Clauses (a) and (b) of Clause “A” and Rs. 300/- in respect of Offices mentioned 
in sub-clause (cl of Clause “A" above. 

i'C) The D.A. adjustment for any quarter shall be made on the basis of the average of 
The All India Consumer’s Price Index for the quarter last preceding the previous quarter 
(that is for the 1st quarter of any year the adjustment shall be on the basis of the average 
of the All India Consumer’s Price Index for the 3rd quarter of the previous year, and so 
on). For the purposes of calculating dearness allowance on the basis of the average 
quarterly index, a fraction of one-third of the average quarterly index will be ignored and 
h fraction of two-thirds will be rounded up to one. 

4. House Rent Allowance .— House rent allowance will be paid to following categories 
of workmen employed only in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and New Delhi Offices. 

(i) Assistants, Senior Assistants, Sectional Heads, Rs. is/- per month. 

Stenographers. 

(it) Peon,, Drivers, Record Clerks, Watchmen, Rs. io/- per month. 

Liftmen, Plumbers, Gardeners, Wircmen / 

Electricians. 

5. (a) In view of the fact that the settlement will be effective from 1st lanuary, 1967 
or 1st January, 1968 as the case may be as specified in Clause 1 hereinabove, the Company 
agrees to waive the recovery of one month’s gross salary which was paid by way of advance 
and the interim relief paid to the workmen prior to 31st December 1966 or 31st December 
1967 as the case may be. In consideration of this, the workmen will have no claim for 
revision of wages or other conditions of service for the periods concerned. 

(b) (i) For the purpose of calculating the arrears in respect of basic salary, D. A. 
and house rent allowance wherever applicable payable to workmen for the period com- 
mencing from 1st January, 1967 or from 1st January, 1968 as the case may be as specified 
in Clause 1 hereinabove, the total monthly earnings (excluding over-time) payable under 
this settlement (subject to adjustments in Clause 6 below) will be worked out and the 
total monthly earnings (including the interim relief but excluding overtime if any earned) 
of the respective workmen for the above-mentioned period will he deducted and the 
balance after making deductions towards Provident Fund and Income-tax will be paid to 
the respective workmen as arrears, payable under this settlement. 

(ii) The arrears payable under this settlement in respect of all types of functional 
allowances, bonus and medical aid shall be paid separately. 

6. Certain other adjustments. — (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in the settle- 
ment, if a workman employed at New Delhi, Jaipur, Patna, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, 
Hyderabad, Bangalore. Nagpur and Kanpur gets an increase in his remuneration as per 
this settlement (excluding all allowances other than D. A.) which is more than the increase 
received by the workmen employed at Bombay drawing the same amount of basic salary 
in the same grade (excluding all allowances other than D.A.) then the workman of the 
above Branch Offices will be only entitled to receive in the first year of this settlement, 
l.e., in the year 1968 an increase which is equal to that received by the Bombay Office 
Workman (excluding all allowances other than D.A.) in January 1967, the difference 
being reduced from the dearness allowance otherwise payable under this settlement. 

In the year 1969, 50 per cent of the said difference will continue to be deducted from the 
dearness allowance otherwise payable under this settlement every month whilst no such 
deduction from dearness allowance will be made in 1970. But this will not prevent the 
workmen from getting an increase in dearness allowance arising as a result of a rise in the 
quarterly average in the All India Consumer Price Index Number for Working Class: 

Provided, however, that if the said deduction exceeds the dearness allowance a workman 
Is entitled to, the balance amount deductable will be adjusted against the dearness 
allowance a workman . shall be entitled to as a result of the rise in the cost of living 
index. The workman shall be entitled to clearness allowance only after the amount 
deductable Is adjusted against increase in dearness allowance arising as r result of rise 
in the cost of living index. Illustration given in statement No. 1 to Schedule ‘B’ attached 
hereto- illustrates’ and clarifies the intention of parties to this settlement. 

For the purpose of determining the increase under this settlement, basic salary a,nd 
dearness allowance as on 31st December, 1966 will be taken as the basis. 

(b) Similarly, if any workman employed at other Branches referred to in Clause? (A) 
(c) abve gets an increase in his remuneration as per this settlement excluding all allow- 
ances other than D.A.) which is mom than Oie increase received by the workmen employed] 



SEC, 3 (ii > J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KAKTIKA 1 1, 1890 


at any ol the Branches reterrcd to in clause 3 (Aj (b J above, drawing the same amount ot 
basic salary in the same grade (excluding ail allowances other uian L>, A.) then the 
workman employed at the Branches referred to in clause 3 ( A J ( c) above will be only 
entitled to receive in the first year of this settlement i.e., in 1968 an increase which is 
equal to that drawn by the wonunan employed at the Branches referred to in clause 3(A) 
to) (excluding all allowances other than D. A.) in January 1968, the difference being 
reduced front Dearness Allowance otherwise payable under this settlement. 

In iho year 1969, 50 p.c, of the said difference will continue to be deducted from his 
dearness allowance every month, whilst no such deduction from dearness allowance will 
he made in 1970. Bul tnis will noL prevent a workman from geltmg an increase in dearness 
allowance arising as a result of a rise in the quarterly average in the All India Consumer 
Price Index Number for working Class. Provided, however, that if Lho said deduction 
exceeds the dearness allowance a workman is entitled to, the balance amount deductable 
will be adjusted against the dearness allowance a workman shall be entitled to as a result 
of a rise in the cost of living index. The workman shall be entitled to dearness allowance 
only after the amount deductable ts adjusted against increase in dearness allowanco arising 
as a result of rise in the cost of living index, illustration given in statement No. 2 of 
Schedule ’B’ attached hereto illustrates and clarities the intention ot the parties to this 
settlement. 

For the purpose of determining the increase under this settlement, basic salary and 
dearness allowance as on 31st December 1966 will be taken as the basis. 

7. If after adjustments, as mentioned above, any workman gets in a month total emolu- 
ments (basic salary and dearness allowance and house rent allowance) less than what he 
was drawing as ot 31st December, 1966 or 31st December, 1967 (as the case may be) 
or the total increase he received by reason of adjustment in the revised scale is less than 
Ks. 10/-, ho will be given a special pay which will ensure that he gets a minimum increase 
of Ks. 10/- over the basic salary, dearncsss allowance, index dearness allowance adjust- 
ment and interim relief drawn on 31st December, 1966 or 31st December, 1967 (as the 
case may be). The special pay mentioned above will not be payable after the expiry 
of ono year mentioned hereinabove. 

8. Annual Increments — -All permanent workmen shall be given their annual increments 
on 1st July every year. For the purpose of grant of increment, continuous service of six 
months or more as on 1st July shall entitle a workman lor the increment on 1st July but 
a workman who has continuous service ol less than 6 months on 1st July of any year Wifi 
not receive the yearly increment payable on Jsl July of the year concerned, 

9. Special increments. — (i) (a) A graduate on joining service will bo given two special 
increments at the start in the grade. Double graduates will be given three special incre- 
ments at the start in the grade. If an existing stall member becomes a graduato he will be 
given two special increments. If an existing staff member who is a graduate becomes a 
double graduato he will be given one further special increment in his/her scale from the 
month of declaration of the results provided however, that the company is given intimation 
in this respect by the workman concerned. 

(i) (b) Typists who are promoted as stenographers will continuo to get three additional 
increments in their grade on their promotion as at present. 

(ii) (a) One special increment will be given to workmen passing Part I of the Associate- 
ship Examination of the Chartered Insurance Institute, London, or Licenciutc Examination 
of the Federation of Insurance Institutes (J. C. Setalvad Memorial), Bombay, Graduates 
and double graduates will not be entitled to this increment. 

(b) One special increment will be given to workmen (including graduates) passing 
Part II of the Associatcship Examination of the Chartered Insurance Institute, London, or 
Part I of the Associatcship Examination of the federation of Insurance Institutes (J. C. 
Setalved Memorial), Bombay. 

(c) One special increment will be given to workmen (including graduates) passing 
Part III of the Associateship Examination of the Chartered Insurance Institute, London, 
or Part 11 of the Associateship Examination of the Federation of Insurance Institutes 
(J. C. Setalvad Memorial), Bombay. 

(d) One special increment will be given to workmen passing the qualifying examination 
for Fellowship of the Chartered Insurance Institute, London, or for Fellowship of the 
Federation of Insurance Institutes (J. C. Setalvad Memorial), Bombay. 

These special increments mentioned in clause 9 (ii) will be given from the year and 
the month in which the results of the examination are officially declared and according to 
the grade the workman is in that particular month. 



4922 'I he (..A/1.. I 1 1 OE INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, E)68/KARliRA if, 1890 [Part Ii— 


(iii) (a) One special increment will be given to tlioso passing Part 1 of the following 
examinations— 


Corporation ot Certified Secretaries, London, 

Corporation of Accountants, Glasgow, and 
Chartered Accountants Examination, India, 

Graduates will not be entitled to this increment. 

(b) One further special increment will also be given to those passing the above final 
examinations (i-e. in all two aaditional increments). 


Graduates will not be entitled to this increment. 

All the above special increments provided for in this clause shall be given to the 
existing stall who snail have passed the above examination alter 1st January iy67 m the 
case of Bombay, Calcutta and Madras, and after fst January 1968 in the case of otfier 
Branches, and also to the new recruits who pass the above Examinations after joining the 
Company. a 


10. Special allowances . — The following culegones of workmen will be granted special 
allowance per month : 

(a) Workmen operating Comptometers, Gestetners and Banda Machine will be 
entiled to Machine allowance of Rs. 15/- per month. 

rb) One peon working in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Delhi carrying cash to 
and from the Bank will be entitled to gn allowance of Rs. 10/- per month. 
One peon working in other Branch Offices and carrying cash will be paid 
a cash allowance of Rs. 5/- per month. 

(c) Peons in Departments who regularly do the work of pasting policy copies, 

endorsements and other documents will be given an allowance of Rs, 10/- 
per month. 

(d) No workmen shall be entitled to more than one allowance at a time and if 

two special allowances are applicable in any case, the higher allowance shall 
be paid. The special allowance would continue to be drawn by a permanent 
incumbent while on leave. A workman who is asked to work temporarily 
for not more than 30 days in a post carrying a special allowance would 
not be entitled to such special allowance. 

(e) The special allowances paid to the following workmen will be withdrawn from 

the date of this settlement. These workmen will be placed in the category 
of workmen, indicated against their names as mentioned hcreinbelow; — 


1. Mr- H. M. More 

2. Mr. D. S. Singh 

3. Mr. P. S. Kadarn 

4. Mr. S. S. Pokle 

5. Mr. B. P. Pandit 


Record Clerk 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Peon 


The above workmen will continue ty perform their duties as hitherto and any other duties 
which will be allotted to them from time to time. 


11. Hours of work. — (a) The normal hours of work of the following workmen will 


be as indicated below: — 

1 Clerical, referred to in paragraphs 
2 (a) (i), 2a (ii), 2a (iii) and 2a(iv) above. 

2. Record Clerks & Peons 

3 Liftmen, Watchmen, Plumbers, Gardeners, 
Wiremen/Electricians. 

4, Drivers 


Present working hours ro continue but wil 
not be mor e than 7 working hours 
per day. 

Present working hours to continue, but 
will not be more than 42 hours per 
week. 

8 working hours per day spread over 11 

hourB per day but not exceeding 48 
hours per week, with a weekly holiday 
during the week. 

9 working hours per day spread over 12 

hours per day but not exceeding 48 
hous per week with a weekly off any 
day in the week. 


Anv reduction in working hours from those existing at present shall take effect from 
, ajoninn of this settlement. Timings will in that case be fixed by the management 

depending upon the exigencies of each Branch or Office, 



SEC. 3(ii)J THE GAZEiTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1%8/KARTtKA. Li, L 890 


4923 


Grace time will be allowed to workmen in accordance with Schedule ‘C’ to the 
settlement. 

(b) Holidays.— Clerical Staff, Record Clerks and Peons — -All public holidays declared 
by the respective State Governments under the Negotiable Instruments Act, except 30tb 
June, 31st December or such holidays declared by the State Governments which relate to 
affairs of the Bunks, will be granted. 

(ii) Drivers, Watchmen, Liftmen, Wit emeu/ Electrician. 

Plumbers, Gardeners:— 

Four specified holidays in a Calendar year, or over-time payment in lieu thereof. 

12. Over-lime Allowance — (i) Over-time payment for actual number of hours worked 
after the normal working hours by a workman will be made at the rate of 1 1 times of his 
basic wage plus dearness allowance. The Stall will be required to work over-time on 
instructions of the Officer-jn-Charge. An exception will be made in case where a work- 
man cannot undertake over-time for valid and genuine difficulties. 

(ii) It is agreed that no additional payment on account of over time, if any, done by 
workmen prior to the dgte of signing this settlement will be due or claimed by the work- 
men due to revision of wages under this settlement or for any other reason. 

13. Out-door duty allowance.— The current practice of payment of actual but reasonable 
out of pocket expenses incurred under instructions by the workman during his out-door 
duties will continue. 

14. Gratuity. — Gratuity will be paid to workmen in accordance with the terms and con- 
ditions of the Gratuity Scheme detailed in Schedule ‘D’ attached hereto. 

15. Provident Fund. — -The rate of provident fund contribution of the workmen shall bo 
8-1/3 per cent of basic salary (excluding all allowances). An equal contribution will be 
made by the Company. 

16. Leave. — Workmen will be granted leave in accordance with the leave rules given 
In Schedule ‘E’ attached hereto- 

17. Medical Aid. — Medical benefits will be granted to workmen aB per the Me’dical Aid 
Scheme given in Schedule ‘F’ attached hereto. 

18. Retirement Age. — Normally, every workman will retire at the attainment of the age 
of 60 but the Company may, at their sole discretion, grant further extension if any work- 
man is medically fit and his services are required by the Company. The Management 
may also at its sole discretion require a workman to retire earlier than the age of 60 on 
medical grounds if certified by a consulting physician or surgeon- 

19. Promotion.— ( a) As far as possible, senior posts will be filled in from the existing 
stall at the discretion of the management after considering the workman's qualifications, 
ability, efficiency and knowledge. The management may appoint any other person from 
outside, if it considers it necessary. 

(b) The Company does not undertake, us a matter of right, to absorb in the clerical 
grade or record clerk’s grade peons who pass Matriculation or any equivalent examination. 
The Company may, however, consider such cases on merits sympathetically. 

(c) Typists who learn stenography will be given preference when new vacancies of 
stenographers arise. The criterion for appointment will, however, be efficiency and, if in 
the opinion of the management such typists arc less efficient than other applicants, the 
latter will be given preference. 

20. Probation— ( a) The probationary period of three months will apply to all workmen 
and in case the management desires to extend further the probationary period, it will have 
the right to extend the probationary period further but not exceeding three months. 

(b) No workman will be kept on probation for more than six months. 

(c) No workman will be kept temporary for more than three months in any Calendar 
year. 

21. Uniforms. — Four Pants, four coats, four caps, one umbrella and one pair of chappals 
will be supplied to drivers, record clerks, peons, watchmen, liftmen, plumbers and gardeners 
every year. These workmen shall wear the uniforms when on duty and the loss of any 
of these articles shall be borne by the workman concerned and no replacement will be made 
by the Company- 



4924 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTlKA il, 1890 [Part II— 


22. Victimisation . — The Company will not victimise or ill-treat any workman for His 
trade union activities. All trade union activities shall he carried on outside office hours, 


23. Transfer . — Transfer of workmen from one department to another in the same office 
will be made by the management according to the exigencies of the Company’s business. If 
the transfer is made at the discretion of the management, the seniority of the workman will 
be maintained. 


24. Bonus . — The declaration and payment of bonus will be subject to the sanction and 
approval of the Board of Directors and the Central Government. 

23. Period and scope of settlement. — (i) This settlement shall remain in force upto 
31st December, 1970. The settlement shall continue to remain in force thereafter until it 
is terminated by cither party by giving a notice of two months in writing to the other after 
31st December 1970. 

(ii) The settlement will be only applicable to all workmen for whom grades are fixed 
under this settlement and who are in the service of the Company as on the date of signing 
this settlement or thereafter. However, monetary benefits, accruing under this settlement 
shall be given to workmen who have retired, died or terminated simpliciter (except temporary 
workmen) from service prior to the date of this settlement. 


26. Settlement not to apply to certain categories .— Notwithstanding anything contained 
in the settlement, this settlement shall not apply to part-time workmen. 


27. General. — (i) In consideration of this settlement all the demands which are subject 
matter of the dispute in reference C.G.I.T, No. 2 of 1967, which are not specifically covered 
by this settlement shall be deemed to be settled as having been withdrawn and the workmen 
shall not agitate the sa'd demands during the currency of this settlement. 

(ii) All payments accrued to the credit of the workmen as a result of this settlement 
shall be paid as early as possible but not later than four months from the date of this 
settlement. 

(iii) Any dispute arising out of the interpretation of any clause of this settlement shall 
be settled between the parties to the dispute by mutual discussions. Failing this, the par- 
ties will resort to the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act or any other law for the 
time being in force. 

28. This settlement is arrived at with the sincere intention of maintaining cordial rela- 
tions between the workmen and the management. The management and the workmen sbull 
carry out the terms of this settlement in its true spirit. 

29. The parties shall make an application before the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal in reference C.G.I.T. No- 2 of 1967 to make an award in terms of this settlement. 
The parties shall also send copies of the settlement under Section 18(1) read with section 
2(p) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to the various authorities prescribed under the 
Act. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereto set their hands the day and year 


first above written. 

Signed for and on behalf 
of the Workmen by the 
All India Insurance Employees’ 
Association. 

(Sd.) K. S. B. PtLLAij 
Joint Secretary 
All India Insurance 
Employees’ Association. 

Witnesses t 

i. (Sd.) P. B. Shat, 

Group Secretary 
(.Sd.) B, J, Datar 


Signed for and on behalf of 
The New Great Insurance 
Company of India Ltd, 

(Sd.) E. S. Ramakrishnan, 
Deputy General Manager. 


Witness t 

i. (Sd.) S. V. Mokashi 


2 . 


2. (Sd.) D. S, Dikshit 



4925 


Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: NOVEMBER 3, 1968/KARTIKA li, 1896 


Schedule “A” 

Sectional Heads in Bombay Office 
[referred to under clause 2(a) (iv) j 

1. Mr. Y. G. K. Prabhu 

2. Mr. N. V. Viswanathan 

3. Mr. K- P. Parekh 

4. Mr. R, J, Mehta 

5. Mr. R. K. Mehta 

6. Mr- P. B. Bhat 

7. Mr- B. J. Datar 

8. Mr, G. Ramaswamy 

9. Mr. N, G. Shah 

STENOGRAPHERS 
[referred to under clause 2(a) (il ) ] 

Bombay 

1. Miss Rita D’Silva 

2. Mr. T- S. L, Narayan 

3. Mr. P. S, Mani 

4. Mr. A, P. Nanu 

5. Mr. V. T. Raghunath 

6. Mr- V. Raman 

Calcutta 

1. Mr. B. K- Gangopadhyaya 
New Delhi 

1. Mr. R. C. Bharadwaj 

2. Mr. S. L. Taneja 

3. Mr. Haveliram Gulati 

Madras 

Mr. P. V. Rntnanabhan 
Jaipur 

Mr. K. G. M. Nair 

SENIOR ASSISTANTS 
[referred to in clause 2(a) (iii)] 

Ahmedabad 

Mr. U. G. Dave 

Agra 

Mr, K. K. Gupta 
Ludhiana 

tWM. 

Mr. W. C. Agarwal 
Baroda 

1. Mr. N, M. Desai 

2. Mr, H, T. Shahiwalla 

Bhavnagar 

Mr. I. P. Bhuva 

Bombay-General/A ccounts Department 

1. Mr. N. K. Gandhi 
2- Mr. P, S- Modv 

3. Mr. G. M. Ved 

4. Mr. K. R. Krishnan 

5. Mr. V. C. Joshi 

6. Mr, C. B. Gurao 

7. Mr. C. P. Thakkar 



4926 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA: NOVEMBERS, 196H/KART1KA 11„ IttpO [Part ii— 


8. Mr. J. S. Rao 

9. Mr- B. R. Desai 

10. Mrs. S. S- Nagarkatti 

11. Mr. S. R, Ganguli 
12- Mr. L. K. Thakkar 

Fire Department 

1. Mr. B. K- Mhatre 

2. Mr- J. B. Deorukhar 

3. Mr. J. G. Valia 

4. Mr. L. T. D’Silva 

5. Mr. J. C. Mehta 

6. Mr. R. T. Srinivasan 

7. Mr, R. Ramachandran 

8. Mr. P. G. Karekar, 

9. Mr. A. S. Mahadcvan 

10. Mr- D. B. Chitalia 

11. Mr. A. R. Sanghvi 

Marine Department 

1. Mr. P. N. Subramanian 

2. Mr. M. C. Tripathi 

3. Mr- C. K. Mehta 

4. Mr. P. M. Sarai 

5. Mr. P. R. Sivaraman 

6. Mr. R. N. Desai 

7. Mr- K. S. Fadia 

Accident Department 

1. Mr. G. N. Shanbhag 

2. Mr. K. Raja Rao 

3. Mr. M. V. Parekh 

4. Mr. C- R. Subramanian 

5. Mr. V. R. Gole 

6. Mr, C. Gangadharan 

Calcutta 

1. Mr. S. L, Banerjee 

2. Mr. S- K. Dutta 

3. Mr. D, C. Saha 

4. Mr. D. N. Saha 

5- Mr. S. R. Bhattacharjee 

6. Mr. P. K- Banerjee 

7. Mr. C- R. Mehta 

Hyderabad 

1. Mr. P. R. K. Panicker 

2. Mr. S. R, P. Raman 

jipur 

1. Mr. V. N. S. Sastry 

2. Mr. P. C. Sogani 

3. Mr. B. K. Nair 

4. Mr. H. K. Punjabi 

Jodhpur 

1. Mr. R, S. Babel 
Kanpur 

1. Mr. C, M. Jain 

Veiv Delhi 

Mr. H. B. Gupta 

Nagpur 

1 . Mr. R. B, Walekar 

2. Mr. D, N. Lutade. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THfc GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER' 2, 1968/KARTIKATi, 1890 4927 


Patna 

Mr. T. N. Chowdhary 
U jjain 

Mr. M. S. Jain 
Sangli 

Mr. H. B. Dalvi. 

Madras 

1. Mr, K, G. Menon 

2. Mr. K. Y. Narayap Rao 

3. Mr. C. Janardhanan 

4. Mr, N. Narayanan 



ANNEXURE “B” (Statement No. i) 



Basic 

Salary 

1st Jan. 
1967 D.A. 
(Cost of 
living 
index) 
@197 

Total 
. monthly 
salary 

Old 

Salary 

Dec. 1966 
old D.A. 

Total 
monthly 
old salary 

Total 

monthly 

difference 

excluding 

interim 

relief 





Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 




‘A’ Class 











Bombay 











Assistant 

390-00 

197’ 15 

587-15 

320- 00 

185-00 

505* 00 

82- 15 




Assistant 

150-00 

108-75 

258-75 

80-00 

i5fio 

231* 10 

27-65 




Peon 

. . . . 85-00 

82-95 

167-95 

35-00 

100*00 

135-00 

32-95 












DA to 

DA to 

DA to 









be rcdu- 

be redu- 

be redu- 









ced in 

ced in 

ced in 









1968 

1969 

1970 

’B’ Class 











Jaipur 











Assistants 

390-co 

148- 15 

538-15 

320-00 

95-00 

415*00 

123- 15 

41 * OO 

20* 50 

Nil 

Assstants 

150*00 

83-75 

233-75 

79' cxi 

8o- 00 

159*00 

74-75 

47-10 

23-55 

Nil 

Peon 

85- 00 

62-95 

147-95 

35' co 

65-00 

IO 0 - CO 

47-95 

15-00 

7-50 

Nil 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2. 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 LTart 11 



Given below are examples showing calculation of salaries of Jaipur staff for 1968, 1969 and 1970 giving effect to the adjustments 



Salary as 
on 1-1-67 

Add in- 
crement 
in July 

1967 

Total 
salary as 
on 1-1-6S 

DA as- D.A to 
sutning be redu- 

indes at ced in 
214. Pts. January 
in January 1968 

196S 

Total 
D-A pay- 
able as on 
1-1-68 

Salary as 
on 1-1-68 

DA- as 
on 1-1-6S 

Total 
salary 
as on 
1-1-6S 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

! r’ Class 

Jaipur 

Assistants 

390' 00 

15* 00 

405-00 

193-85 

41-00 

152-85 

405 '00 

152-85 

557-85 

Do 

150*00 

8- 00 

158-00 

roS- 36 

47-10 

61-26 

158- 00 

61- 26 

219-26 

Peons .... 

85-00 

3-00 

88-00 

78- 72 

15* 00 

63-72 

88-oo 

63-72 

151-72 


Salarv 

Add 

Total 

D.A 

D. A to 

Total 

Silirv 

D.A. as 

Total 


as on 
r-1-68 

increment 
in July 
1968 

salary 
as on 
1-1-69 

assuming 
index at 
200 Pts. 
on Jan- 
uary 1969. 

be 

reduced 
in Jan- 
uary 1969 

D.A- 
payable 
as on 
1-1-69 

as on 
1-1-69 

on 1-1-69 

salary 
as on 

1-1-69 

Assistant 

405' 00 

15-00 

420*00 

i6r- 50 

20* 50 

141*00 

420-00 

141*00 

561-00 

Do 

158-00 

8-oo 

166-00 

93- 10 

23-55 

69-55 

166- 00 

69-55 

235-55 

Peons .... 

88-oo 

3' 00 

91* OO 

67-30 

7- 50 

59- 80 

91-00 

59-80 

150- 80 

— 

Salary 

Add 

Total 

D.A. 

D.A. to 

Total 

Salarv 

DA. as 

Total 


as on 
l-r-69 

increment 
in July 

1969 ' 

salary’ assuming 

as on index at 

1-1-70 190 Pts. 

in Jan- 
uary', 1970. 

be redu- 
ced in 
January 
’7°- 

D.A. 
payable 
as on 
1-1-70 

as on 
r-r-70 

on i' 1-70 

salary 
as on 

1-1-70 

I 

Assistanr 

420- 00 

15*00 

435-00 

137-75 

Nil 

137- 75 

435-00 

137- 75 

572-75 

Do 

, . . 166-00 

8- 00 

174*00 

82- 20 

Nil 

82- 20 

174- 00 

82- 20 

256-20 

Peons .... 

91-00 

3* 00 

94-00 

58-80 

Nil 

58- 80 

94-00 

58- 80 

152-80 


c. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 1968/KARTIKA JJ, 1890 




B Class 
Jaipur 


Assistant 

Peon 


ANNEX URE',“B” (Statement'No. 2) 


Basic 

Salary 

D.A. 

(Cost of 

living 

index) 

@197 

Total 

monthly 

salary 

Old 

Salary 

JO 

rPS 

Total 

monthly. 

old 

salary 

Total 

monthly| 

difference 

ex.LR. 

Reduction Total 
on account monthly 
of maxi- difference 
mum limit receivable 
in 1968 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

150*00 

83-75 

233-75 

79-oo 

80 ■ 00 

159-00 

74‘ 75 

47-10 

27*65 

85-00 

62-95 

147-95 

35-00 

65- 00 

100- 00 

47-95 

15-00 

32*95 


D.A. to 

D.A. to 

D.A. to 

be redu- 

be redu- 

be redu- 

oed in 

ced in 

ced in 

1968 

1969 

1970 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 


*C Class j: 

Sangli V 

Assistant .... 150-00 63-75 213-75 6o-oo 40-00 too-oo 113-75 *86-io 43‘05 Nil I 

Peon 85-00 42-95 127-95 30-00 30-00 6o-oo 67-95 35*00 17-50 Nil 1 


*As the reduction in D.A. is more than D.A. payable, the dearness allowance will be eliminated Jit at no forth ;r D.A. will be paid until the increase in 
dean mess allowance arising as a result of the rise in the cost of living index covers the deficit. 


, 09 INDIA : NOVEMBER!, 1988/KARTIKA 1 R 1W» [Part -I t 


Given below are examples showing calculations of salaries of Sangii Staff for 1969, 1968 and 1970 giving effect to the adjustments 



Salary 
as on 
1-1-67 

Add 

increment 
in July 

1967 ' 

Total 
Salary 
on 1-1-68 

Assuming 
D.A@ 
214 Pts. 

D.A to be Total 
reduced in D.A. 
January payable 
1968 as on 

i-t-68 

Salary' 
as cm 
1-1-68 

D.A. as on Total 
i-r-68 salary as 

on 1-1-68 

‘C’ Class 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Sangii'' 

Assistant 

Peon .... 

150-00 

85-00 

8-00 

3-00 

158-00 , 
88-oo 

88-36 

58-72 

86- to 
35-00 

2- 26 
23-72 

158-00 
88- 00 

2- 26 
23-72 

160 ■ 26 
hi- 72 


Salary 
as on 
1-1-68 1 

Add 

increment 
in July 
1968 

Total 
salary' 
on 1-1-69 

Assuming 
D.A. @ 
200 Pts. 

D.A to be Total 
reduced in D.A 
January payable 
1969 as on 

1-1-69 

Salary' 
as on 
1-1-69 

D.A. as on 
1-1-69 

Total 
salary as 
on 1-1-69 

Assistant 

Peon ... 

Rs. 

158-00 

88-00 

Rs. 

8-00 

3-00 

Rs. 

166-00 

91-00 

Rs. 

73-10 

47-30 

Rs. 

43-05 

17-50 

Rs. 

30-05 

29-80 

Rs. 

166- 00 
91-00 

Rs. 

30-05 

29-80 

Rs. 

196-05 

120-80 


Salary 
as on 
1-1-69 

Add 

increment 
in July 
1969 

Total 
salary- 
on 1-1-70 

Assuming 
D.A. @ 
190 Pts. 
on 1- 1 -70 

D.A. to be Total 
reduced in D.A 
January payable 
1970 as on 

1-1-70 

Salary as 
on r-r-73 

D.A. as on Totla 
i-r-70 salary 

as on 

I -1-70 



Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Assistant ... 

166-00 

8-00 

174-00 

62-20 

Nil 

62- 20 

174- 00 

62-20 

236-20 

Peon .... 

91-00 

3-00 

94-00 

38-83 

Nil 

38- 80 

94-00 

38- 80 

132-80 


Sec. 3 (h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2 , 1968 /KARTIKA ll, 1890 



4932 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1 96B/KA RTIK A 11, 1390 (Pa rt II— 


Schedule "C" 

Rules regarding Grace Time 

At the centres where grace time is allowed, it will be understood Dial this concession 
is not considered as a privilege for coming to Office late regularly or very often. Adequate 
reasons would have to be adduced for late attendance beyond ten minutes. Any workman 
arriving after the grace time will mark his actual time of arrival on the muster roll. 

Any workman who comes late in any office for more than threo days in a month will 
be deemed to be absent for one day for every three days of late attendance, and such 
absence will be deducted from casual leave due to him. In the event, casual leave is not 
due, the absence shall be deducted against, privilege leave, if any, due to him. If no 
casual leave or privilege leave is dut to the workman, the absence will bo treated as 
leave on loss of pay and necessary deduction from salary will be made. 

Any workman arriving late by more than one hour after the scheduled time will be 
marked absent and will not be allowed to work unless permitted by the Head of the 
Department. 

Schedule “D” 

Gratuity Rules 

Every workmen shall be paid gratuity as follows : — 

1 On retirement ..... One month’s basic salary for each completed 

year of continuous service, subject to 
a maximum of 15 months basic salary. 

2 In the event of death of an employee or One month’s basic salary for each completed 

permanent disability certified by a year of continuous service subject to 
Doctor nominated by the Convuny a maximum of 15 months’ basic salary 

whilst in'Jthe service of the Company. to be paid to the disabled workman or if 

hc/she is dead, to his/her heirs, executors, 
legal representatives or assigns. 

3 In the event of resignation after 10 years Three-Fourths of a month’s basic salary 

service. for each completed year of continuous., 

service but not exceeding 15 months’ 
basic salary. 

4 On termination of service by the Company (rf) After 5 completed ycarB of continuous 

service but less than to years service — 
1 month’s basic salary for each completed 
year of service. 

(ft) After to completed years of continuous 
service but less than 15 years service 
3 14 of a month’s basic salary for each 
completed year of service. 

(c) After IS completed years of continuous 
service 1 month's basic salary for 
every completed year of service subject 
to a maximum of 15 months' basic 
salary. 

In the event of dismissal of a workman for gross misconduct involving financial loss 
to the company, the amount of gratuity if any payable shall be reduced by the amount 
of financial loss caused to the company by the misconduct resulting in the termination 
of the service. 

The salary for the purpose of calculating gratuity will be the monthly basic salary 
exclusive of all allowances payable to a workman on the date the workman ceases to be 
in the employment of the company. 

Schedule "E” 

Leave Rules 

(a) Privilege Leave, — For every eleven months of actual service with the company, 
a workman will be entitled to one month’s privilege leave. Such leave when due can be 
accumulated up to a maximum of 90 days but no workman will be allowed more than 
60 days leave at a time. Accumulated leave in excess of 90 days will be deemed to 
lapse. Applications for privilege leave wilj be made 15 days in advance. Privilege 



SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 196B/KARTIKA >1, I £90 4933 


leave may prefixed or suffixed to holidays. Privilege leave when duo will be granted 1 
according to the exigencies of the Company's business. If a workman is refused privilege 
leave when applied for, his rights in respect of such leave will be safeguarded. 

A workman who is on privilege leave should not in the normal wnirse request for 
extension of leave. However, in case such extension is unavoidable, prior application for 
extension of leave should be made before the expiry of the leave already granted. 
Management on receipt of such application will communicate its decision on such an 
application. Failure to apply will result in loss of pay for the days of his absence from 
duty after the expiry of the sanctioned leave. The absence shall also be ireated as 
unauthorised absence. 

Encashment of privilege leave will be allowed only to workman who has accumulated 
leave of 60 days or more to his credit and provided that the workman while applying for 
encashment of leave also applies for not less than 30 days privilege leave. Maximum 
encashment of privilege leave will be limited to 30 days, 

(b) Casual Leave. — A workman will be allowed 10 days casual leave per calendar year 
to meet casual and unforseen circumstances, or not more than the maximum number of 
days laid down in the Shop and Establishment Act applicable to the Office concerned. 
Not more than 3 consecutive days casual leave will be allowed at a time. Casual Leave 
may cither be prefixed or suffixed (but not both) to Sundays and Bank holidays, but only 
with the previous permission of the Management. 

Casual Icavo shall not be availed of as far as possible, unless previously applied for 
and sanctioned by the Management. The need for previous application can be waived 
only in case of absence due to illness or accident, or other urgent reason deemed reasonable 
by the Management. 

If a workman is marked late for more than 3 days in a month, he will forfeit casual 
leave for one day for every 3 days late coming. 

If no medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner is produced, absence 
due to sickness of not more than 3 days will be treated as casual leave. 

(c) Sick Leave . — A workman Is entitled to a maximum of 15 days sick leave per year 
on full pay, subject to his producing a certificate from a registered medical practitioner. 
Such leave may be accumulated up to 100 days on full pay. ft no medical certificate from 
a registered medical practitioner is produced, absence due to sickness of not more than 
3 days will be treated as casual leave- A workman will also be allowed to exhaust his 
*ick leave first, if he is entitled to such leave, and thereafter to utilise his privilege leave 
which may be due to him. 

(d) Maternity Leave . — -A married female worker who has been confirmed in the service* 
of the company shall be granted maternity leave with full pay for 12 weeks, to be taken 
6 weeks before confinement and 6 weeks after confinement. The birth of a child certified 
by a registered medical practitioner should be notified to the company. 

Normally, maternity leave shall not be granted in conjunction with sick leave or 
privilege leave. However, in cases of genuine hardship, the Management at its discretion 
may make an exception. 

Maternity leave will be granted only for the first and second deliveries during the female 
worker's life time. 


Schedule "F” 

Medical Aid Scheme 

(i) (a) The benefits under the above Scheme will be available to all permanent 
workmen of the Company covered by this settlement. 

(b) The workman must have completed one year’s service to enable him/her to get 
me benefits under this Scheme. A workman will be entitled to join this Scheme on the 
1st day of January of the year following completion of his/her ono year’s service. 

(ii) The Company will create a separate fund called the Company’s Medical Aid Fund 
for medical aid of the workmen by contributing to the said fund a sum of Rs 75 p er year 
to the credit of each workman, to be utilised for tho benefit of the workman in the manner 
hereinafter provided. 

(iii) A workman wifi take medical treatment as and when he may require the same 
from his own Doctor who shall be a registered medical practitioner. 




4934 GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part IJ— 


(iv) Any workman entitled to the benefits of the Scheme will submit his/her Bill jn 
respect of costs of mixtures, injections, patent medicines, X-rays, pathological examinations, 
specialists’ consultation fee but excluding dentists’ Bills and maternity expenses, together 
with supporting vouchers at the end of every three months, viz., 31st March, 30th lune, 
30th September and 31st December of every year, for medical treatment undergone by 
him/her to the Company who, if satisfied about the same, will reimburse the workman 
by paying three-fourths of the amount of the Bill out of the amount standing ro his/her 
ciedil in the said fund, provided that the amount payable to a workman shall not exceed 
Rs. 75 per year. 

(v) If a workman has not taken advantage of the medical benefit available to him/hei 
under the Scheme during any year, he/she will be entitled to accumulate the unused or 
unspent amount lying to his/her credit for three consecutive years, i.e- to accumulate to 
his credit a sum of Rs. 225 and hc/shc may if so necessary, be allowed to take benefit 
of the Scheme up to Rs. 225 for the three years, provided that if the amount is not at 
all utilised by him/her at the end of the period of three years, the entire amount or portion 
thereof lying to his/her credit shall lapse and shall then belong to the Company. 

(vi) A workman shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent injury or illness to 
himself/herself and especially when any disease is prevalent in epidemic form. 

(vii) If a workman has to undergo hospitalisation treatment, the company will bear 
and pay the expenses of such hospitalisation up to three-fourths of such expenses of 
hospitalisation actually incurred by the workman on production of the Bills. The Bills 
that will be reimbursed by the company shall not exceed three weeks hospitalisation per 
year, in the manner specified below: — - 

Three-fourths of actual charges but not exceeding 

Staff (Grades I to IV) Rs. 20 pier day as loom charges. 

Sub-Stall (Grades V to VIII) Rs. 10 per day as room charges. 

In addition to the above, operation and other medical expenses incidental to the 
hospitalisation, such as honorarics’ visit charges, operation theatre or tabic charges, 
medicines and injections will also be borne by the company to the extent of three-fourths 
of the amount applicable to the class nearest to the one referred to in this paragraph. 

The company will reimburse a workman to the extent of three-founhs of hospitalisation 
expenses as mentioned above, on production of Bill of such charges. 

(viiij) Under this Scheme of Medical Aid, a workman will not be entitled to medical 
benefit in the following cases: — 

(a) insanity, venereal diseases or any medical treatment necessitated by a workman’s 

own rash or reckless act, 

and/or 

(b) any medical treatment other than hospitalisation taken by a workman outside 

the City/Town where the Office of the company concerned is situated. (Tile 
benefit will, however, be available to such workmen who have their place 
of residence outside the City Town where the office of the Company is 
situated, and who attend to their work from such place of residence). 

[No. 74(13) /66-LRTV.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi . the 26 th October 1968 

S.O. 3874 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Advance Insurance Company Limited, 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, ia exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, con- 
stituted under section 7A of the said Act. 



Sue, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 


SCHBDULR 

Whether the demands raised by the General Insurance Employees Union, Bombay 
in respect of the employees of Advance Insurance Company Limited, Bombay 
with regard to the following matters are justified ? 

(a) Classification of employees, scale of pay, dearness allowance, adjustment, 

special allowance, special increments, overtime allowance, officiating allow- 
ance, and house rent allowance. 

(b) Free medical aid, gratuity, retirement age, provident fund, and uniforms for 

employees in Grades ‘A’ and 'B', 

(c) Leave benefits viz. casual leave, privilege (earned) Leave, sick leave, maternity 

leave, examination leave, special leave, furlough leave, sectional holidays 
and holidays. 

(d) Leave fare concession. 

(e) Temporary Staff and promotions. 

If so, to what relief arc the employees entitled ? 

[No. 25/9/68-LRIIL] 
O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19 th October 1963 

9.0, 3875. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Dutta’s Central Kajora Colliery of Dutta’s Central Kajora Coal Company (Private) 
Limited. Post Office Kajoragram, District Burdwan an’d their workmen, which was receiv- 
ed by the Central Government on the 15th October, 1968- 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 2 of 1968 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Dutta’s Central Kajora Colliery of Dutta’s Central 
Kajora Coal Co. (P) Ltd., 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present 

Shri B. N. Bancrjee — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

On behalf of Employers — Shri N. Das. Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen — Absent, 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

By Order No. 682/67 /LRII, dated January 6. 1968, the Government of India, in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment), referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to Dutta’s Cen- 
tral Kajora ColFery of Dntta’s Central Kajora Coal Co. (Private) Ltd., and their work- 
men, to this tribunal, for adjudication, namely: — 

"Whether the employers of Dutta’s Central Kajora Colliery. P.O., Kajoragram 
District Burdwan were justified iu terminating the services of Shri Nandlal 
Mitra wilh effect from the 10th June, 1967? If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled?" 


AND 

2. The cause of the workman does not appear to have been espoused by any trade 
union. Notice of the reference was directed to be served both on the employer company 



4936 1 IE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTTKA i 1, 1 890 [Part li- 


ana the workman concerned, by an order dated January 15, 1968. By the said notice 
the workman concerned was called upon to file his written statement within 10 days 3 
the receipt of the notice and the employers concerned were directed to file their written 
statement within 10 days of the receipt of the written statement filed by the workman. 
It appears from the postal acknowledgement, that the notice was received by the workman 
concerned on January 27, 1968, He did not enter appearance before this tribunal nor 
did be file any written statement. 

3. Thereafter, by an order made on July 24. 1968, the 8th of August, 1968 was fixed 
for fixing the date of hearing of the reference in the presence of the parties. On 
August 8, 1968, H. Bhalotia, a director of the employer company, appeared before this 
tribunal but nobody appeared for the workman. On that day, fhe employer company 
filed an application praying that the workman be called upon to produce certain docu- 
ments, at the time of the hearing of the reference before this tribunal. The prayer was 
granted and notice, by Registered post, was sent to the workman concerned calling upon 
him to produce the aforesaid documents on October 9, 1968, which was fixed as the 
date of peremptory hearing. It appears from the postal acknowledgement receipt that 
the workman concerned received the notice on August 21, 1968. 

4. Today, the management appeared through an Advocate. The workman did not 
enter appearance nor did he file the documents, which he had been called upon to do. 
I waited for him upto quarter to twelve, but he did not come. Mr. Das, learned Ad- 
vocate for the emplyer company, stated that the employer company was not aware of the 
whereabouts of the workman concerned. In these circumstances, I presume that the 
workman concerned is not interested in pursuing the dispute any longer or that no dispute 
now exists between the parties. 

5. In the circumstances aforesaid, I record a 'no dispute’ order between the parties 
and make an award accordingly. 


Dated, October 9, 1968. 


Sd./- B. N. Banewee, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 6/82/67-LR-IL] 


S O. 3876. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers In relation to the 
management of Jote Dhemo Colliery, Post Office Ukhra (Burdwan) and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 14th October, 1968. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

Reference No. 88 of 1967 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to management of Jote Dhemo Colliery. 

AND 

Their workmen- 


Present: 

Shri B. N. Banerjee — Presiding Officer. 


Appearances: 

On behalf of Employers— Absent. 

On behalf of Workmen — Three concerned Workmen 

State: West Bengal. 


Industry: Coal Mines. 


AWARD 

Bv Order No- 6/54/67-LR-II, dated November 14, 1967, the Government of Tndla, 
, Hi \iinMrv nf Labour Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour anil 

I~;vHr s&Jtezssx 



Snc.3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 


4937 


effect from the 6th February, 1967? If not to what relief are the workmen 
entitled?" 


2. The workers appear to have settled the dispute out of this tribunal, with the em- 
ployers. In token thereof they filed a petition cancelling the authority of Asansol Coal 
Field Workers’ Union, which had adopted their case, and praying that the reference be 
dropped. I, therefore, fin'd that there is no further dispute between the employers and 
the workmen and make a "no dispute” award in this reference. Let the petition filed 
before this tribunal today form part of this award. 


Dated, September 16, 1968. 


(Sd.) B. N. Banbrjee, 

Presiding Officer. 


The Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), 

20, British Indian Street, 3rd floor, 

Calcutta. 

Respected Sir, 

Reference No. 88 of 1967 


With reference to the above we beg to submit that we have made settlement with the 
Management of Jote Dhemo Colliery for our payments and service and hence the General 
Secretary, Asansol Coalfield Workers’ Union, Asansol is no more authorised to represent 
ns in our case fixed for hearing on 16th September, 1968. 

We therefore, request you to kindly drop the case as everything has been settled with 
the management of Jote Dhemo Colliery. 


Yours faithfully, 

(Sd.) Difnarayan Sinoh, 

L.T.I. of Sarju Ahir. 

L.T.I. of Ramharak Ahir. 

Dated, 13//i September, 1968. 

Jote Dhemo Colliery, 

P.O. Ukhra, District Burdwan. 

[No. 6/54/67-LR-n.l 

S.O. 3877. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Jote 
Dheme Colliery. Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwan and their workmen, which was 
recoive’d by the Central Government on the 14th October, 1968. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA. 

Reference No. 77 of 1967 


Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliery. 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present: 

Shri B. N, Banerjee — Presiding Officer. 

Appearances: 

On behalf of Employers — Absent 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Madhusudan Roy. 

State: West Bengal. Industry, Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

By Order No 1/3/67-LR-IHD. dated Otober 28, 1967, the Government of India, in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 


493 s gazette of india.- November 2, i%8/kartika 1 1, 1 «9o (Part ii~ 

Empioymeni), referred the following dispute between the employers m , elution tofc 
Jote Dhemo Colliery and their workmen, to this tribunal for adjudiation namely: — 

Whether the lock-out and subsequent lay-off without compensation of the workers 
men entiftodr ° ° 10ry WaS Jlutllled? If not - to what relief are the work 


. f 2 ' ^ “nptoyers were conspicuous by their non-cooperation with the proceedings 
before this tribunal. Notice of this reference was served upon the Managei ol the cm- 

Sm/rT C i! 1D f Up0 ? i heln l °. sub ™'‘ thcil ' ri -‘ply to the written statement of the 
workmen within 10 days of the receipt of the copy of such written statement, The em- 
ployers took no step. Thereafter, notice was served upon them to attend before the 
tribunal for fixation of a date of hearing. On that date the union representing the 
workmen appeared but the employers did not. September 16, 1968, was ffxed for hearing. 
The union representing the workmen appeared but the employers did not care to do so. 
In these circumstances, I was compelled to proceed In the absence of the employers. 


3. The case made out by the workmen is that about 350 workmen are employed in 
the colliery known as Jote Dhemo Colliery. The employers defaulted in payment of 
salaries, wages and bonus to their staff and other employees for some months in the year 
1966 and from the months of May and June onwards for the year 1967. About 27 
workmen appealed to the management for payment of their dues, on August 7, 1967. The 
Manager of the colliery, Sri Roy Butman, expressed sympathetic attitude but Sri Girish 
Ojha, Special Officer of the Colliery paid no heed to the prayer. He even told them that 
none of the workmen need come from August 8, 1967 as the colliery would stop working 
from that day The further case of the workmen is that when they reported for work, 
in the first shift of August 8, 1967, they found that there was nobody present either in 
the office or in the store room and the attendance room was under lock and key. This 
action of the management, the workmen state, amounted to illegal and unjustified lock-out. 
In order to cover up the wrongful action, the workmen state, the management sent notice 
In form ‘N% falsely reporting that there was a strike in the colliery and because of the 
illegal strike the management was compelled to lay-off their workmen from August 8, 
1967. The story of strike by the technical and supervisory staff is denied by the workmen. 


4. The workers approached the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central). Raniganj, 
for conciliation- The employers, however, did not appear before the said Officer. From 
the failure report, it appears that the employers merely contended themselves by filing a 
strike report in form ‘N\ 

5. In support of the case made by the workmen, three witnesses were examined. Two 
of them were workmen of the colliery, namely Patiraj Rajbhar (Pickminer) and Rama 
dhar Harijan (Trammer). Both of them said that the colliery was kept under lock and 
key. They went to work but could not work. The third witness was one Arun Bhatta- 
charjee, Joint General Secretary of the Asansol Coal Field Workers Union. He proved 
the letter which was addressed by the General Secretary of the Asansol Coal Field Workers 
Union to the Regional Labour Commissioner, dated August 12, 1967 (Ext. 1) on the 
illegal lockout of the colliery. The material portion of the said letter reads: — 

‘‘This is to inform you that the Management of Jote Dhemo Colliery have locked 
out their mine from the 1st Shift of 8th August, 1967, without observing any 
legal formalities as the Coal Industry is a Public Utility service. 

On 7th August, 1967 the workers and staff of the colliery went in a joint deputa- 
tion to the Manager and Shri G- C. Ojha to request them for payment of 
their Salaries, Weekly wages, Bonus etc. Shri G. C. Ojha refused to listen 

their grievances and as a retaliation action has closed the mine. 

He further proved Ext. 2, the notice from the office of the Assistant Labour Commissioner, 
dated September 1, 1167, calling upon the parties to the dispute for conciliation. Uie 

concil iation 'apparently failed, as the reference to this tribunal, by the Government order 

ciuoted at the beginning of this award, amply shows, After the reference to this r Tun 
X° made the l abour Department of the Government of India made the following 
further telegraphic order (Ext. 4 and 4A): — 

"nKPlTTF TOTF DHEMO COLLIERY OVER LOCKOUT REFERRED TO 

sSS SECTI0N 

sum total of the evidence, on which I have to decide this case- Now, 

him." 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA II, 1890 


On the evidence before me, I have to hold that the employers closed the place of em- 
ploymcnt, they refused to continue to employ workmen and attracted the mischief of 
definition of lock-out. There is no reason why this lock-out was effected. I have, in the 
absence of better evidence, to hold that the lock-out was without sulllcient reason and 
therefore illegal. Even after the reference to this tribunal, it appears, the employer com- 
pany violated the order of Labour Department to lift the lock-out. That certainly attracts 
the penal provision of the law on them* Of the lay-olf, I have no evidence before rne* 
Arun Bhattacharjee, who deposed before me, sai'd that he did not even see the order of 
lay-off posted by the management. Therefore, if there was any order of lay-off, that was 
also equally illegal. 


7, In the view that I take, I hold that the lock-out and lay-off were both unjustified. 
The workmen are entitled to their salaries, wages and all other bcnelits from August 8, 
1967, upto this date and until the lockout is lifted. 


This is my award. 


Dated, September 18, 1968. 


(Sd.) B. N. Banerjee, 

Presiding Officer, 

[No. 1/38/67-LR-H.] 


S.O. 3878. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of, 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Jo to 
Dhemo Colliery, Post Office Ukhra, Bnrdwan and their workmen, which was received by 
the Central Government on the 15th October, 1968. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reference No- 95 of 1967 


Part ms: 

Employers in relation to the Jote Dhemo Colliery. 


Their workmen. 


And 


Present 

Shri B. N. Banerjee. — Presiding Officer. 


Appearances: 

On behalf of Employers — Absent. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Madhu Sudan Rqy- 


State: West Bengal Industry: Coal Mine® 

AWARD 

By Order No. 6/56/67-LRIl dated December 4,th 1967, the Government of India, in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Joto 
Dhemo Colliery and their workmen, to this tribunal, for adjudication, namely: 

"Whether the management of Jote Dhemo Colliery was justified in not allowing 
Shri Hafiz Mia, Line Mistry, to resume duty on the 2nd February, 1967 after 
the re-opening of the colliery on the 22nd November 19667 If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled?" 


2. In spite of several notices neither the workman nor the employer appeared before 
this tribunal, nor did they file any written statement. Shri Madhu Sudan Roy, who is the 
General Secretary of the Asansol Coal Field Workers Union, States that he has not been 
able to establish contact with the workman concerned. In these circumstances, I feel at 
there is no dispute now subsisting between the employers and the employee. 1 tnereroro 
record a "no dispute” award in this reference. 


Sd./- B. N. Banerjee. 

Presiding Officer. 


Dated, September 16, 1968. 


[No, F. 6/56/67-LRII.) 



4940 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 [Part 11— 


S.O. 3879, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of Shri P. C. Rai, 
Arbitrator in the dispute between the management of Rawanwara Khas Collieries of Messrs 
Oriental Coal Company Limited, Parasia, District Chhin'dwara and their workmen repre- 
sented by M, P. Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, Ghandametta, District 
Chhindwara, which was received by the Central Government on the 15th October, 1968. 

ARBITRATION award of shri p. c. rai, regional labour commissioner 
(CENTRAL), JABALPUR IN THE CASE OF 5 COAL CUTTING MACHINE 
DRIVERS OF RAWANWARA KHAS COLLIERIES OF MESSRS ORIENTAL COAL 
COMPANY LIMITED, PARASIA. 

RCL File No. J — 83 (35)/67. M/L&E File No. 5/65/67-LR.H 

Present 

Shri P. C. Rai Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) Jabalpur Arbitrator. 

Representing Employers — Shri R. L. Khnllar, Manager. Rawanwara Khas Collieries, M/s. 
Oriental Coal Company Ltd,. Parasia. 

Representing the Workmen — Shri V. N. Dutta, General Secretary, M.P. Rashtriya Koyla 
Khadan Mazdoor Sangh (INTUC), Chandametta. 

Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation, Deptt. of Labour and Employment, 
by notification No. 5/65/67 dated 14th November 1967 published an order in the Gazette 
of India, which included an agreement under Section 10 — A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. By this order, the dispute was referred to my arbitration. The following is the re- 
levant portion of the agreement: — 

“It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to 
the arbitration of Shri P, C. Rai, Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Jabalpur: 

Specific matters in dispute 

Whether the notice of change in the service conditions given by the management on 
the 18th day of September, 1967 under Section 9 — A of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act 1947 in respect of the following workmen is just7 If not to what 
relief are they entitled. 

Name of the workmen : 

(1) Shri Kamaluddin 

(2) Shri Ramjan 

(3) Shri Saligram 

(4) Shri Chuttan 

(5) Shri Sukhoo 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the 

establishment or undertaking involved. 

(1) The management of M/s. Orental Coal Company Ltd. in relation to (heir Rawan- 
wara Khas Colliery, P, O. Parasia (Dist. Chhindwara — M.P.) and 

(2) Their workmen represented by M. P. Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh 
(INTUC). Chandametta, P.O. Parasia, Dist. Chindwara — M.P. 

(iii) Name of the Union, if any, representing the workmen: 

M.P. Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh (INTUC), Chandametta. 

(iv) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected: 

950 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected: 

The arbitrator shall make his awArd within a period of 3 months or within such 
further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. 
In case the award is not made within the period aforementioned, the 
reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall 
be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration.” 

In response to my request, none of the parties submitted their written statements. 
However, the hearing in this case was flxe’d on 13th December 1967, to 24th January 1968 
and the final hearing took place on 13th February 1968 at the Circuit House, Chhindwara. 
After preliminary discussion with the parties, they had agreed to jointly check with refe- 
rence to seniority if the persons under dispute should be given work as Tugger-driver/ 



Sec. 3(li)I THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1 968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 4941 


t Khalasi and if the persona under dispute are senior they would be employed aa Tuner 
Driver/Khalasi otherwise as tr amm er. In view of this, the parties agreed that no award 
was necessary- 

Later on further dates of hearing on 15th May. 1968, 27th May 1968, 10th June 1968, 
26th June 1968, 2nd August 1968, 14th August 1968, and 30th September 1968 were fixed 
and ultimately, the following minutes were recorded after hearing od 1st October 1968: — 

"The parties informed me today that the arrangement made under proceedings or 
13th February 1968 have been implemented as demanded by the union. The 
persons arc employed as follows: — 

(1) Shri Kamaluddin as Dresser 

(2) Shri Ramjan as Haulage Khalasi 

(3) Shri Saligram as Dresser 

(4) Shri Chuttan as Haulage Khalasi 

(5) Shri Sukhoo as Haulage Khalasi 

No. award Is necessary. 


Regarding wages, 1 'directed the union to raise a fresh dispute, if they so desire.” 


In view of the above position, the parties have agreed that no award is 
I do not give any award. 


P. 


necessary and 

C. Rai, 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) Jabalpur Arbitrator. 


Jabalpur, 

Dated the 5th October, 1968//<svirw 13, 1890. 
Asvina 12, 1890 


[No. 5/65/67-LRU.J 


New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 

S.O. 3880. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Methftni 
Colliery of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited, Post Office Dishcrgarh. District 
Burdwan and their workmen, which was received bv the Central Government on the 14th 
•October, 1968. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL. CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 14 of 1968 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Median] Collierv of M/s. Equitable Coal Company 
Limited. 


AND 

Their workmen. 

Present ; 

Shri B. N. Banerjee —Presiding Officer, 

Appearances : 

On behalf of Employers — Shri M. K. Mukherjee, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Nikhilcsh Das, Advocate. 

State; West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines. 

AWARD 

By Order No. 6/12/68-LRH dated March 13, 1968, the Government of India, in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Departhffeift of Labour and Employ- 
ment). referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Metbani 
Colliery of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited and their workmen, to (his tribunal 
for adjudication, namely: 

"Whether the dismissal of Shri Biiovharl Chatterjee, Phmdent Fund Clerk, bv the 
management of Methani Colliery with effect from the 10th November. 1967 
was justified'’ If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 



4942 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 {Pabt II — 


2. There is no dispute that the workman Bijoyhari Chatterjee was on sick leave from? 
June 17, 1967 to July 3, 1967. This also appears from the attendance register Ext. B* 
According to the employer company, the workman again absented himself thereafter, 
without leave or authorisation. This is also borne out by the attendance register, Ext. B. 
On July 27, 1967, the workman abovenamed was called upon to show cause why dis- 
ciplinary action should not be taken against him “for absenting without permission since 
July 1967. " 

3. Before 1 proceed further, 1 need state here that there is some dispute as to the 
department of the employer company, in which the workman was employed. According 
to the employer company, the workman was a clerk in the Cooperative stores. According 
to the workman, however, he had worked under rhe employer company in different capa- 
cities, firstly as an underground time-keeper, then as a Provident Fund clerk, thereafter 
as a de-facto pay clerk under his old designation as Provident Fund clerk and then as a 
clerk in the Colliery Cooperative Stores under his old designation of Provident Fund clerk. 
Further, according to the workmen he was relieved of his work as a clerk in the Co- 
operative Stores, in August 1966. and worked in dilferent capacities under the verbal orders 
of the Welfare Officer. 

4. The workman showed cause to the charge levelled against him, on August 17, 1967, 
and therein stated- 

"*** I beg to submit that 1 handed over the charge from Cooperative Stores on 
26th August, 1966 and since then I was working in dilferent capacities as per 
verbal instruction of our Welfare Officer. After my authorised sick leave, I 
was declared fit on 4th July. 1967 and approached the Welfare Officer for 
his instruction for my duty. He told me to wait till he gets instruction from 
H.O. regarding my duty. I am not absenting but waiting for his further 
instruction for my deputation, as he said. In this regard I should not have 
been issued chargeshect but an order of deputation should have been given 
to me, ***” 

5. On the basis of the chargcsheet, there was an enquiry held by Sri S. ISanerjee, a 
Labour Officer of the employer company. On the first day of enquiry, that is to say on 
September 6, 1967, three witnesses on behalf of the management were examined, namely,, 
N. B. Bose, the Welfare Officer, Robi Lochan Bancrjee, the time keeper and A, Karak, 
clerk Personnel section. N. B. Bose stated in his evidence before the enquiring officer: 

“I have to state that Sri Bijoyhari Chatterjee continuously worked as co-operative 
store clerk ever since 26th August, 1966. As he had no job at Cooperative 
Stores due to the Cooperative was under lock and key for some trouble, I 
took the permission of the Chairman and Secretary of the Cooperative Stores 
and told Sri Chatterjee to prepare paysheets of the trammers for 2 week*. 

payments only again when the Cooperative was opened he worked 

at the Cooperative stores all along Sri Chatterjee never came to me on 

4th July, 1967 for duty and I never gave him any instruction that he would 
be given job only when Head Office would instruct me. The fact is that Sri 
Chatterjee absented from duty since 4th July, 1967 at his own accord." 

in cross-examination, it was suggested to this witness that he had given trouble to the 
workman concerned in January 1967. He however dented this. The time-keeper Robi' 
Lochan Banerjee said in his evidence, before the enquiring officer: 

"I have to state that Sri Bijoyhari Chatterjee was deputed to work in the Co- 
operative Stores since its starling. He worked all along in the Cooperative 

Stores as a clerk even after 26th August, 1966 Sri Chatterjee 

reported sick from 17th June. 1967 and he was made fit on 4th July, 1967- 
After 3rd July, 1967 he never came to the colliery for duty, he was also 
not traceable in the colliery.” 

This witness was very ineffectively cross-ex mined bv the workman. The other witness 
examined on behalf of the management, namely A. Karak, clerk in the Personnel Section, 
also stated tb i Bijoyhari Chatterjee was absenting from duty from July 4, 1967, of hi* 
own accord, and sent no information to the colliery. He did not come, this witness further 
stated, on July 4, 1967 for dutv and also thereafter. 

6, After the examination of the above named three witnesses the enquiry was adjourned 
to September 12, 1967, because the management wanted to examine further witnesses-. 
Strangely enough, nobody on behalf of the management was present on September 12, 1967. 
The workman concerned alone attended (he enquiry. It is said that on that day, before 
the enquiring officer, he made the following voluntary statement (Ex2): 

“1 have further to state in reply to chargeshect No. 1349 dated 27th July, 1967 that 
I was severely usaulted by the workers of the colliery on 16th June, 1967 
and became sick from that day. I was under the treatment of the colliery 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA il. 1890 


4943 


Medical officer from 16th June, 1967 to 3rd July 1967. I admit that I did 
not come to the colliery on 4th July, 1967 and afterwards for reporting my 
duty due to fear of my life. I admit that I absented from m yduty since 
4th July, 1967 of my own accord owing to the reason stated above. I may 
kindly be excused for my fault.” 


The above statement was marked as Ext. 2 before this tribunal. The reason for giving 
this statement, I shall have to deal with hereinafter. The enquiry, however, was adjourned 
from September 12, to October 26, 1967, when Sibaprasad Misra, Accounts clerk and ex- 
chairman of the Cooperative Siorcs, was examined on behalf of the management. This 
witness stated that the workman Bijoyhari Chatterjcc was all along, employed in the Co- 
operative stores as a clerk and worked in the Cooperative Stores even after August 26. 
1966 until he began to absent himself from duty from July 4, 1967. At the end of the 
enquiry proceeding the workman concerned wrote out as follows: 

“I have to state in reply to my above chargesheet that I have nothing more to state 
over and above what I have already stated in reply to my chargesheet. I 
have no evidence either documentary or witness to produce.” 


The enquiring officer was not satisfied with the explanation given by the workman, for tbo 
following reasons: 

“(a) from the evidence recorded it appeared that the delinquent Bijoyhari Chattcrje#* 
could not prove that he reported for duty to the Welfare Officer on July 4 , 
1967. 

(bj the delinquent also failed to prove that he was not working in the Cooperative 
stores after August 26. 1966. Therefore his place of duty was at Coopera- 
tive Stores In the cross-examination the delinquent also could not 

establish that he was not working at the Cooperative Stores after 26th August. 

1966 as per verbal order of the Welfare Officer. 

(c) again the delinquent made another statement during the enquiry in which ho 
admitted that due to fear of his life he absented from duty from July 4. 

1 967 of his own accord. The reply on the body of the chargesheet and hi* 
admission during the enquiry, the reply (on the body of the chargesheet) 
being contradictory, his reply on the body of the chargesheet cannot be relied 
upon. The delinquent also failed to produce any evidence in support of hi* 
case." 


On the finding as aforesaid, the enquiring officer recommended his dismissal. That recom- 
mendation was accepted and the delinquent workman was ordered to be dismissed. This 
gave rise to an industrial dispute, which was espoused by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress 
and the matter was at last referred to this tribunal for adjudication. 

7, When the dispute was placed before this tribunal, the written statement filed on 
behalf of the workman, by the General Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Congress, introduced 
certain improvements in the defence of the workman, namely: 

(a) In paragraphs 7 to 15 of the written statement, it was stated that the charge 
was a got up one and was the product of the displeasure of the employer’s 
Labour Adviser. S. K. Bhattacharjee, against the workman, It was alleged 
that about the middle of the year 1966, an incompetent person known as 
Misra and a dishonest person known as Fariddi respectively became Chairman 
and Sccretarv of the Cooperative Stores. Taking advantage of the position, 
Fariddi misappropriated a huge sum of money belonging to the Cooperative 
Stores. It was further alleged that Bijoyhari Chatterjee, the workman con- 
cerned, reported the matter to Taneja, the Chief Mining Engineer of the com- 
pany, and S. K. Bhattacharjee, the Labour Adviser of the company, but they> 
did not take any interest in the matter, The result was that the Cooperative 
Stores became defunct in the middle of June, 1967 and Fariddi got away. 
At this stage, It was also alleged, that Bijoyhari Chatterjee, the workman 
concerned, became sick and had to take sick leave for some time and after 
he became fit he went about asking for employment in some capacity but 
without any response from the employers. At last, he approached the Labour 
Adviser and asked for his job but the said Labour Adviser rebuked him and 
called him an accomplice of Fariddi. The workman did not succumb to this 
and reminded the Labour Adviser that he had complained about the mal- 
practice of Fariddi earlier to him but no notice was taken of that complaint. 
He also made similar comolaint to an Officer of the Cooperative Department 
of the West Bengal Government, who had came to enquire into the matter. 
This enraged the Labour Adviser, S. K. Bhattacharjee, and he thumbed up the 
false chargesheet upon the workman. 



4944 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA J 1 , 1890 [Part II— 

■ E s — 1 — : — — - — - - ■ - - .. -- ; 

(b) The Deputy Labour Adviser of the company, who was made the Enquiring 
Officer, it was alleged, told the workman concerned that he need not be 
serious about the charge and that he would have a talk with the Chief 
Mining Engineer and try to drop the charge against the workman. He how- 
ever told the workman. It was further argued, that the Labour Adviser 
might oppose the dropping of the charge, unless the workman admitted the 
charge himself and, therefore, the workman should put his signature on a 
paper admitting the charge. If even thereafter, the Labour Adviser would 
not agree to drop the charge, the enquiring officer would destroy the in- 
criminating paper. 

<(c) In paragraph 20 of the written statement, it was stated that “the inducement 
and allurement held out by the Enquiring Officer did not stop there and to 
create confidence even reference to racial and provincial affinity was refer- 
red to and the workman, a man of straw in comparison with the dexterity 
and cleverness of Mr. Baneriee easily swallowed the pill and obliged the 
Enquiring officer in good faith and relying on his representation put his 
signature on the statement which more or less purported to be an admission 
of the charge.” 

This improvement, as introduced in the written statement, the workman wanted to move 
by his evidence. He stated: 

"During the course of enquiry the enquiring officer Mr. Banerjee asked me to see 
him at his bungalow. I saw him at his bungalow on September 11, 1967. 
At that time there had been only one day of enquiry and enquiry was part 
heard. On that day he suggested to me to put my signature on a statement, 
to be dictated by him, .... Mr. Banerjee wrote out this statement and I 
put my signature thereon. The signature is mine. What is written in the 
statement is not true- I put my signature on it through inducement. 

In cross-examination he stated: 

“The talk that I had with Mr. Banerjee about putting my signature on the statement. 
Ext. 2, nobody else is aware of and it was done privately. Before pleading 
about the putting of signature on Ext. 2, in the written statement before this 

Tribunal, I did not speak about this to anybody else earlier It is untrue 

that I out of my own will put my signature on Ext, 2." 

8. The enquiring officer, S. Banerjee, was examined before this tribunal. In his examina- 
tion in-chief he said: 

“The delinquent Bijoyhari Chattcrjee volunteered one statement and 1 had the state- 
ment recorded. (Shown Ext- 2 ). This is the statement of Bijoyhari, which 
I recorded. The statement was read over and explained to him and admitted 
by him as correct. Thereafter, he put his signature on the statement." 

9. It may be somewhat strange that the delinquent workman, who had shown cause 
denying the charge, who had on the first day of the enquiry cross-examined witnesses in 
order to disprove the charge, suddenly broke down on September 12, 1967 and made a 
full and complete admission of the charge. But, however, strange his conduct may be, I 
cannot induce myself to believe that the workman concerned was made to sign on that 
statement under false hopes held out by the Enquiring Officer. He is no ‘Pardanashin’ 
woman. He is a literate man, an English knowing person and to all appearance a man of 
some shrewdness. According to his evidence, he is capable of making complaints in high 
quarters. 

10. There are three grounds on which T am not prepared to believe that the workman 
concerned made to make the admission contained in Ext. 2: — 

(i) The workman addressed a letter to the Secretaiy, Methani Colliery Employees 
Cooperative stores, on December 1, 1967 (part of bundle of documents collectively marked 
■Ext. A). That letter was voluntarily written by him. He states In this letter as follows: 

“In this connection T would mentioned that I discharged my duty efficiently at the 
Cooperative stores all along. But the affairs of the Cooperative Stores be- 
came more and more irregular since Fariddi, the outgoing Secretary took 
over the charge resulting in some malpractices. The managing committee of 
the Cooperative store took no action against Mr. Fariddi which further 
deteriorated the situation and there was huge misappropriation of monev. 

Due to the shameful affairs there accrued labour trouble in the colliery and I became 
the victim of assault by some miscreants on 16th June, 1967 at the colliery. 

I could not come to the colliery after the incident as I was afraid of my life and 
nobody took any step to prevent that. As a result of that T was chargesbeefed 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 11, 1890 4945 


by the management for unauthorised absence and dismissed from company’s- 
service.” 

The statement contained in this letter is not very much different from the admission made 
by Bijoyhari Chatterjee in Ext. 2. 

(ii) The domestic enquiry took evidence and believed in the evidence of the Welfare 

Officer, the time keeper, the personnel clerk and ex Ch airman of the Coopera- 
tive stores to the effect that the workman concerned was absenting from 
duty from July 4, 1967, without leave and without any permission. Those 
witneses were cross-examined by the delinquent workman but they were not 
shaken in cross-examination. 1 am not sitting in appeal over the finding of the 
domestic enquiry. If other evidence supports the admission made by the 
concerned workman, I do not find any reason to differ from the finding 
arrived at the domestic enquiry. 

(iii) At no time before filing the written statement before this tribunal, did the work- 

man complain to anybody that a statement containing an admission by him 
was wrongfully procured from him by the Enquiring officer and was being 
used as a ground for dismissing him, According to the evidence of the 
concerned workman, the statement was to be returned to him if the charge 
was not dropped. I wonder how the workman could be so good as to believe 
in the verbal statement of the Enquiring Officer that he had had destroyed 
the signed statement of the workman- It was expected that he would raise 
a row over this procured statement earlier, if his story was true. 

11. For all these reason, f find qmt [he workman has failed to make out any case. Even 
if the admission is to be kept out of consideration, even then there is the evidence of the 
Welfare Officer, the time-keeper and the personnel clerk, as also of the ex-Chalrman of the 
Cooperative stores, all of whom unanimously say that the concerned workman was absent- 
ing without leave from July 4, 1967. Therefore, the charge of absenteeism is made out 
•gainst the concerned workman even without his admission. Since I cannot interfere with 
the findings of the domestic enquiry based on evidence, which are not perverse, I have 
to accept the findings as they are. 

12. It was next argued before me that even if the charge was made out against the 
workman, he should not have been penalised with the extreme penalty of dismissal. This 
argument is misconceived. Absence without permission and without satisfactory reason, 
for more than 10 days, is a misconduct under the Standing Orders of the employer com- 

S any (Ext. C-). Once this conduct is established, the quantum of punishment is in the 
ands of the employer. It is not for me to substitute a lesser punishment than what the 
employer thought fit and proper to impose. 

13. For the reasons aforesaid, I am of opinion that the dismissal of Bijoyhari Chatter] e» 
by the management of Mcthani Colliery with effect from 10th November, 1967 was justified' 
and the workman is not entitled to any relief. 

I award accordingly. 

(Sd.) B. N. Banerjee, 

Presiding Officer.. 

Dated, September 19th, 1968. 

September 1 9th, 1968- 

[No 6/12/68-LRlI.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 

S.O. 3881. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the Simlabahal Colliery of Bhalgora Coal 
Company Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No, 3), Dhanbad,. 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [PART II — 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Simlabahal Colliery owned by Bhalgora Coal Company 
Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad was justified in stopping the 




following workmen 
each : — 

from work with effect from the dates 

noted against 

S.No. 


Nrmc of the workman 

Designation 

Date 

i. 

Shri Sutter Seikh 

Pick Miner 

2-4-1968 

2 . 

M 

Seo L '1 Sho 

: 

27-4-1968 

3- 

5» 

Drshu Rabidas 

IS 

27-4-196.8 

4- 

D 

Nirayan Sao 

•> 

28-7-1968 

J. 

a 

Sadhu Koiri 


28-3-1968 

6. 

u 

L ikh >n P indlt 


-58-7-1968 

7- 

jj 

Bibuhl Koiri 


. -2-1968 

8. 

)J 

C mgr Jaiswara 


_v. 1-1968 

9- 

jj 

Jawahir Loth 


20-3-1968 

10. 

3» 

Nandku Loth 

- 

28-3-1968 

II. 

11 

Day.il Jaiswara 


28-3-1968 

12. 

» 

Bhurai Jaiswara 

» 

28-3-1968 

13. 


Babib 

H/Mazdoor 

1-3-1968 

14. 

>9 

Wazil Main 

Trammer 

I-3-1968 

IS- 

Most Hibibon Bibi 

W/Lorder 

I-4-I968 

If 

not. 

to what Tclicf are the 

workmen entitled 7 



[No. 2/106/68-LRIL] 


New Delhi, the 26 th October 1968 

S.O. 3882. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery, 
Chanda, District Chanda (Maharashtra) and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified, in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication, «\' 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the management ot Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery, Chanda, District Chanda 
was justified in refusing to pay pushing allowance to underground Loaders 
at the rate prescribed in para 37 of Wage Board’s Recommendations at 
page 116 (Vol. I) of the Report of the Central Wage Board for the Coal 
Mitring Industry 7 If not, to what relief, are these workmen entitled ? 

[No. 1/12/68-LRIL] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Sccy. 



Sbc. 3<H>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTHCA 1 1, 1«0 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1908 

8.0. 3883. — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal. Calcutta, in the Industrial Dispute between the employers in relation to Messrs. 
A. C. Roy and Company (Private) Limited. Calcutta, and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on 17th October, 1968. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT CALCUTTA. 
Reference No. J of 1968 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to Messrs A. C. Roy and Company (Private) Limited, Calcutta* 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Shri B. N. Banerice, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

Shri R. Das Gupta, Labour Adviser. — On behalf of Employ r:- 

Shri P. K. Ganguly. Joint General Secretary. National Union of Waterfront 
Workers.— On behalf of Workmen, 

State : West Bengal. Industry : Port and Dock. 

AWARD 

Bv Order No. 28/49/67-L.RIII. dated November 2. 1967. the Government of India, in 
the Ministry of Labour. Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), referred the following disputes between the employers in relation to Messrs 
A. C. Roy and Comnany (Private) Limited. Calcutta, and their workmen, to this tribunaL 
(or adjudication, namelv : 

“Whether the following demands of Ihe Assistant Supervisors of Messrs A. C. Roy 
and Company (P) Limited. Calcutta are justified 7 If so. what relief are they 
entitled to and from what date ? 

1. 8 paid holidays in a calendar year. 

2. Acting allowance at enhanced rates and also for night shift Assistant Supervisors. 

3. Paid weekly holiday. 

4. Attendance allowance. 

5. Casual Leave, sick leave and privilege leave. 

6. House rent and City Compensatory allowance. 

7. Children's Education allowance.”. 

2. The cmplovcr company appeared before this tribunal through Shri R. Das Gupta, 
Labour Adviser. The cause of the workmen was espoused by the National Union of 
Waterfront Workers and Mr. P. K. Ganguly, Joint General Secretary of the Union, appeared 
before this tribunal to represent (he workmen. 


3, The parlies to the dispute amicablv settled their disputes and in token thereof filed 
a joint petition of compromise before this tribunal. They prayed that an award be mado 
in terms of the joint petition of settlement. 

I award accordingly. Lei the joint petition of settlement form part of this award. 

(Sd.) B. N. Banp.r.tee, 

Presiding Officer. 


Dated, October T ", 




4948 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 [Part II — 


BEFORE SHRI B. N. BANERJEE, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

In the matter of Reference No. 1 of 1968 

And 

In the matter of an industrial dispute 

Between 

Messrs. A. C. Roy & Company Private Limited, 19, R. N. Mukherjce Road, Calcutta-1 
thereinafter referred to as "the Company”) 

And 

Their Workmen (Assistant Supervisors) represented by National Union of Waterfront 
Workers, 10, Mohan Chand Road. Calcutta 23 

(hereinafter referred to as "the Union") 

The humble petition of the company and the Union abovenamed. 

Most Respectfully Sheweth: — 

1. That your petitioners have amicably settled the dispute mentioned in the Schedule 
to the present Order of Reference, and submit this joint petition of compromise for con- 
sideration of the Honourable Tribunal. 

2. That the aforesaid dispute have been settled on the following terms and conditions: 

(i) Paid Holidays.— Tho workmen shall be entitled to the following holidays with, 
pay in every calendar yew: 

(a) Republic Day 

(b) Independence Day 

(c) Bijoya Dashmi 

(d) Mahatma Gandhi’s Birthday 
(t) Kali Puia 

(f) Id-ul-Fiter 

(g) Id-uz-Zuha 

(h) Cristmaa Day: 

Provided that the workmen shall remain obliged to work on any of the aforesaid 
holidays as and when requisitioned by the Company, and that for such work 
on holidays, the workmen shall be paid single extra wages for shift/shift* 
so worked, in addition to a single wage for the holiday concerned. 

(11) Acting Allowance. — The workmen shall be entitled to acting allowance at the 
rate of Rs. 3 as and when they are required to act in place of Supervisors 
or anv higher post, 

(iil) Acting Allowance for work on Night Shift ( 3rd shift). — The workmen shall be 
entitled to Night Shift Allowance at the rate of Rs. 2 for work on 3rd shift 
onlv, 

(iv) Paid Weekly Holiday. — The workmen shall be entitled to weekly roster off with 

pay on a staggering basis. In other words, some of the workmen, as may 
be decided upon by the Company, will get one particular day as weekly holi- 
day. and others so selected will get another day as weekly holiday, and to 
this wav. everybody will get one day off in a week on the aforesaid basis. 
Such holiday will be paid holiday for those enjoying it. 

(v) Attendance Allowance— The workmen shall be entitled to Re. 1 per day for 

recording their attendance at the office on days when no work is available, 
provided that no attendance allowance shall be payable for any day for 
which wages have been paid, 

(vi) Leaver — The workmen shall be entitled (o leave facilities in eveiy calendar year 

on the following basis: 

(a) Privilege leave on full pay at the rate of one dav for every 12 (twc'vc) days 
work provided that attendance without availability of work shall be treated 
as ‘on duty’ for the purposes of calculation of leave. The leave shall bo 
cumulative up to a maximum period of 90 days. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 1968/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 4949 


(b) Sick leave on full pay for 7 (seven) days, provided that an additional 3 (three) 

days may be granted In exceptional case* at the discretion of the Com- 
pany. The leave shall be cumulative by 7 (seven) day* in every calendar 
year upto a maximum period of 60 days. 

(c) Casual leave on full pay for 5 (five) days. The leave shall be non-cumulative. 

(vii) House Rent, City Compensatory Allowance and Children's Education Allow- 
ance . — The Union forgoes the demands on the aforesaid items in consideration 
of the benefits agreed to by the Company hereabove. 

fviii) The Company agrees to give effect to the benefits stated hereabove with effect 
from 1st January, 1968, provided that calculations of arrears shall be done 
In consultation with the Union, The Union also agrees to extend necessary 
co-operation in the matter. 

Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Honourable Tribunal may be graciously 
pleased to approve of the terms and conditions stated above and pass an 
Award in terms of this joint compromise petition. 

And for this act of kindness, your petitioners as in duty bound shall ever pray. 

Representing the Union Representing the Company 

(Sd.) P. K- Ganguly, 

Joint General Secretary, 

National Union of Waterfront Workers 

(Sd.) S. M. Chowdhury, 

Director. 

(Sd.) R. Das Gupta, 

Labour Advisor. 

INo. 28/49/67-LR.III.) 

K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 24th October I960 

S.O. 3884 . — Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 

(1) Guru kul Kangri Pharmacy 

(2) RJshikul Ayurvedic Pharmacy 

were situated in Hardwar area which was a sparse area (that is an area whose insurable 
population was less than 500) in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh: 

And, whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factories were 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers' special contribution under section 
73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Government in the Noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O. 266J dated the 11th November, 1961; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population of the 
Hardwar area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now exceeded 
500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees' 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the said notification, namely : — 

Tn Schedule VI to the said notification under “Saharanpur Division” against Serial 
No. 15 the entry “Hardwar” in column 4 and the corresponding entries in 
column 5 shall be omitted, 

INo. F.6(63)/68-HI.l.] 

S.O. 3883 . — Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that The Ashok Plywood 
Trading Co. was situated in Jwalapur area which was a sparse area (that is, an area whose 
insurable population was less than 500) in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar 
Pradesh; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a spars* area, the aforesaid factory was 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers’ special contribution under section 


4950 the GAZETTE of INDIA: NOVEMBER 2 , 196 8/KART JKA 11 , 1890 [Parj U— 


73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Government in the noti- 
fication of the Government of Ipdia in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O. 2665 dated the 11th November, 1961; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satifled that the insurable population of the 
Jwalapur area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now exceeded 
500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing fufther amendment in the said notification, namely 

In Schedule VI to the said notification under “Saharanpur Division” against Serial 
No. 15, the entry “Jwalapur" in column 4 and the corresponding entry in 
column 5 shall bo omitted, 

| No. F.6(63)/68-HI.II.] 


S.O. 3886. — Whereas the Central Government was satifled that National Small Institute 
was situated in Jwalapur area which was a sparse area (that is, an area whose insurable 
population was less than 500) in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory was 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers’ special contribution under section 
73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Government in notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 1883, 
dated the 1st July, 1963; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population of the 
Jwalapur area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now 
exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment In the said notification, namely; — 

"In the Schedule to the said notification against Serial No. 5 relating to the District 
of Saharanpur. the entry “Jwalapur" in column 3 and the corresponding 
entry in column 4 shall be omitted.” 

LNo. F.6(63)/68-Hl III.] 


S.O. 3887.— Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that Uttar Pradesh Gov- 
ernment Roadways Workshops was situated in Hardwar area which was a sparse area 
(that is, an area whoso Insurable population was less than 500) in the district of Saharan- 
pur in the State of Uttar Pradesh; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory was 
granted exemption from the payment of the employers' special contribution under section 
73F of tbe Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) until enforcement of the 
provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that area by the Central Government in the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. S.O. 1883, dated the 1st July, 1963; 

And, whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population of the 
Hardwar area in the district of Saharanpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh has now 
Exceeded 500, and it is no longer a sparse area; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendment in the said notification, namely 

In the Sdhedhle'Io the said notification, against Serial No. 5 relating to the District 
of Saharanpur. the entry “Hardwar" in column 3 and the corresponding 
entry in colunjn 4 spall be omitted. 


[No. F-d ( 63 ) /68-HI.lV. ] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: NOVEMBER 2, 196S/KARTIKA 1 1, 1890 


4951 


S.O. 3888, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1) of 
section 5A of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby appoints Shri Dhami Dhar as a member of the Central Board of Trustees, 
and mokes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Social Security No. S.O. 1156 dated the 1st April, 1965, 
namely : — 

In the said notification, for the entry against serial number 3, the following entry 
shall be substituted, namely : — 

“Shri Dhami Dhar. Internal Financial Adviser and Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment), New Delhi”. 


[No. 4(5)67-P.F.L] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1968 

S.O. 3889. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour an'd Employment) S.O- 2876, dated 
the 22nd August, 1968, published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part TT, Section 
3 Sub-section (ii) at pages 877 and 878,— 

At page 877 — 

(i) in line 12, for “Schemes” read “Scheme”; 

(ii) in line 18 for “employees” read “employer"; 

(til) in line 22, for “Central", read “Central or State”. 

[No. 36(7) /67-PFI/I.] 

S.O. 3890. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) S.O. 2877 dated 
the 22nd August, 1968, published at page 878 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part 
IT, Section 3, Sub-section (ii) dated the 22nd August, 1968 at page 878 in line 2, for 
“Schemes” read “Scheme”. 


[No. 36(7)/67-PFI/n.] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


PRINTED By THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1968 




