REGISTERED No. D. 2X2 


‘Hkel&asttte 




PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Inbia 


No. i] NEW DELHI, SAIT RDAY, JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 28th 
December 1957 : — 


Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

592 

/ 

S.R.O. 4071, dated the 19th 
December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 4072, dated the 19th 

Ministry of Finance 

A drawback allowed in respect 


Ditto. 

of duty-paid imported"! gold 
used in the making of gold 
jewellery. 

The Customs Duties Draw- 

j93 

December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 4073, dated the 19th 

Ministry of Food and 

back (Gold Jewelley) Rules. 
1957. , 

Amendment made in the Orissa 

594 

December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 40,74, dated the 20th 

Agriculture. 

Ditto. 

Rice (Prohibition of Export") 

Order, 1957. 

Amendment made in the Pun- 

595 

December, 1957. 

S.R.Ox 407s, dated the 20th 

Ditto. 

jab Rice (Movement Control) 
Order, 1957. 

The Uttar Pradesh Rcc (Ex- 

596 

December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 40-6 dated the 20th 

Ditto. 

port Control) Order 1957, 

The Bihar Food a rains (Ex- 


j December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 4077 , dated the 20th 

Ditto. 

port Control) Order, 1957. 

The Madhya Pradesh Rice 

597 

December, T957. 

S.R.O. 4079, dated the 13th 
December, 1957. 

S.R.O 4075, dated the 20th 
December, 1957. 

S.R.O. 4080, dated the 18th 

Election Commission, 

(Export Control) Order, 

1957. 

Election Petition No. 458 of 

59* 

India. 

Ministry of Information 

1957- 

Certification of films to be of 

599 

and Broadcasting. 

Election Commission, 

the description specified 
therein. 

Election Petition No. 324 of 

600 

December, 1957, 

S.R.O. 4081, dated the 21st 

India. 

Ministry of Finance. 

1957. 

Amendment made in the Cus- 


December, 1957. 

1 

toms Duties Drawback 

(Telecommunication Equip- 
ment) Rules, 1957. 



2 HIE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

< 

Subject 


S.R.O, 4082, dated the 21st 

1 Dccemcr 1957, 

Ministry of Finance 

Amendment made in the Cus- 
toms Duties Drawback 

(Cough Syrup) Rules, 1957. 

6oi 

S.R.O, 4083, dated the 24th 
December 1957. 

I 

Ditto. 

Draft of the amendment to 
be made in the Customs 
Duties Drawback (Saccha- 
rin) Rules, 1957. 


! S.R.O. 4084, dated the 24th 
December 1957. 

j 

Ditto. 

Amendment made in the 
Customs Duties Drawback 
(Linoleum) Rules, 1954. 

602 

[ S.R.O. 4085, dated the 18th 

1 December 1957. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Election Petition No. 310 of 
1957- 

603 

S R.O. 4086, dated the 19th 
December 1957. 

Ditto. 

Elecdon Petition No. 473 of 
1957. 

*04 

S.R.O. 4087, dated the 16th 
December 1957. 

Ditto. 

Elecuoti Petition No. 83 of 
1957- 

605 

S.R.O. 4148 dated the 24th 
December 1957. 

Ministry of Law. 

Declaration containing the 
name of the candidate elec- 
ted to the House of the 
People by the 54 Muaaffar- 
pur Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency. 

606 

S.R.O. 4149, dated the 26th 
December 1957. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Notice of withdrawal of Elec- 
tion Petition No. 463 of 1957. 

607 

S.R.O. 4150, dated the 27th 
December 1957. 

Ministry of Finance . 

Amendment made in the 
Notification No. 146-Cus- 
toms, dated the 7th Septem- 
ber 1955. 


S.R.O. 4151, dated the 27th 
December 1957. 

Ministry of Comir - 
ercc and Industry. 

Amendment made in the noti- 
fication No. S.R.O. 3143, 
dated the 5 th October 1957. 

60S 

S.R.O, 4152, dated the 28th 
December 1957. 

Ministry of Finance . 

Amendment made in the Cus- 
toms Duties Drawback 

(Pottassiuro Citrate) Rules, 
1957. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners) 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 23 rd December 1957 

S.Jt.O. 5. — It is hereby notified for general Information that the disqualiftea- 
tion under clause (c) of section 7 of the Representation of thei People Act, 1951 
(XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address are given below, 



Sec. 3] THE GA/K 1 TE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 19G8/FAUSA 14, 1879 


3 


as notified under notification No. IIP-P/398/57(185), dated thei 30th October, 1957, 
has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powers conferred 
on it by the said clause and section of the. said Act: — ■ 

Shri Anokhi Ram, 4, St. Marks Quarters, Simla. 

[No. HP-P/398/57 ( 185R) /15329. ] 

By Order, 

BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1957 

S.R.O. 6 [Contracts/ Am(21).].— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) 

- of article 299 of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the Notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Law, No. S.R.O. 3442, dated the 2nd November, 1955, relating 
to the execution of contracts and assurances of property, namely: — 

In the said notification, under Part II which relates to the Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry, for clause (a; of Item 1, the following clause shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“(a) Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers or exporters in connection 
with the clearance or export of goods for the due fulfilment of conditions imposed 
on the importers or exporters; by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 
Joint Chief Controllers of Imports and Exports, Deputy Chief Controllers of Imports 
and Exports, Import Trade Controllers, Export Trade Controllers, Controllers of 
Imports and Exports. 

[No. F.44(l)/57-J.] 
B. N. LOKUR, Jt, Secy. 


LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT 

New Delhi, the 19 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 7. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 20 of the Lok Sabha 
Secretariat (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1955, the Speaker, 
after consultation with the Ministry of Finance, hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Lok Sabha Secretariat (Temporary Service) Rules, 19o7, 
namely : — 

In the said Rules, after the second proviso to rule 6, the following further 
proviso shall be added: — 

“Provided further that when the services of a quasi-permanent officer arc 
terminated under clause (ii), he shall be given three months’ notice 
and if, in any case, such notice is not given, then, with the sanction 
of the authority competent to terminate the services of such officer, 
a sum not exceeding his pay plus allowances for the period by which 
the notice actually given to him falls short of three months, may 
be paid to him, and, if he Is entitled to any gratuity, such gratuity 
shall not b e paid for the period in respect of which he receives a 
sum in lieu of notice; the compensatory (City) and House Rent 
allowances, where admissible shall be payable on the expiry of the 
period of notice and after it is certified by the competent authority 
that the officer continued to reside during that period at the station 
where he was last employed, notwithstanding the fact that be was 
not expected to return to duty at that station.” 

[No. F.l(16)-SD/56.] 
M. N. KAUL, Secy. 



THK GVZETTE <)!• INDIA. JAM' \RY 4. 19G8,1*U'SA 14, 1879 


[Part II 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 23 rd December 1957 

S.R.O. 8. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Union 
Territories (Laws) Act 1950 (30 of 1950), the Central Government hereby extends 
to the Union territory of Manipur the Madras Livestock Improvement Act, 1940 
(Madras Act XV of 1940), as at present in force in the State of Madras, subject 
to the following modifications: — 


Modifications 

1. Throughout the Act — 

(a) for the words ‘‘State of Madras”, the words ‘‘Union territory of Mani- 

pur” shall be substituted; 

(b) save as otherwise provided in item 4 below, for the words “Stater 

Government”, the words "Chief Commissioner” shall be substituted. 

2. In the long title and preamble, for the words "Province of Madras", the 
words "Union territory of Manipur”, shall be substituted. 

3. In sub-section (3) of section 1 and in sub-section (5) of section 20, for the 
words "Fort St. George Gazette”, the words "Manipur Gazette” shall be sub- 
stituted. 

4. In sections 17 and 18, for the words "officer or servant of the State Govern- 

ment” wherever they occur, the words "officer or servant of the Administration” 
shall be substituted, # 

5. In section 19, for the words "themselves” and ‘‘they think fit”, the words 
"himself” and “he thinks fit” shall be substituted respectively. 

Annexure 

The Madras Livestock Improvement Act, 1940, as modified by this Notification. 

[No. F.9/1 / 57-J.II.J 
S. NARAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 25tli December 1957 

S.R.O. 9.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 ol the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Government, 
after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Indian Police Service (Uniform) Buies, 1954. 

2. The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have taken effect from 
the 18th October, 1957. 


Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said rules, alter clause 3, the following clause shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

"3-A. Mess Dress.— This shall be worn at messes, at official public entertain- 
ments by night, or whta invited to meet the President or Governor at dinner or 
at an official function by night, unless Review Order is specially ordered. 

It shall consist of: 

(i) Patrol Jacket . — Dark blue cloth (during cold weather) and white drill 
(during hot weather) single breasted, cut as lounge coat to the waist, loose at 
the chest and shoulders but fitted at the waist, slits down the side 6" deep. 
Collar to be buttoned up to the neck, collar band 14" wide. Length as in an 
ordinary civilian lounge coat, i.e., just covering the seat, Two cross-patch breast 
pockets above, 64" wide and 74" deep to the top of the flap with 21" box pleat 
in the centre. Six medium Indian Police Service pattern buttons down the front 
up to waist only. Pointed cuffs, 5" high at the front and 24 " behind. Collars for 
the Director, Intelligence Bureau and the Inspector General will be worn In 
Silver. 

(ii) Collar . — Collars for the Director, Intelligence Bureau and the Inspector 
General should be of the pattern as worn by the officers of the rank of Major 
General in the Army i.e., ornamented with 4 inch silver lace round the top and 
front edges and embroidered all round In oak-leaf pattern in dead and bright 



5 


Si t . S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958 /PA l IS A 14, 1879 


silver. Far others the collar will be of the same material as a patrol jacket but 
the Deputy Inspector General and Selection Grade Superintendents of Police 
will wear gorget patches on red background and other Superintendents of Police 
and Assistant Superintendents of Police should wear plain blue collars. The 
collar of patrol jacket should be 1J" wide. Collar badges 1}" in height to be worn 
by office! s of the Indian Police Service who are not entitled to wear gorget 
patches. 


(iil) Shoulder Cord.- — Black twisted lace cord Elpauluttes as per specification 
of the old full dress (blue uniform) according to the following specifications- 
triple plated design of black twisted lace cord 2" in diameter 1-1/8" wide at the 
neck terminating m 2J" wing and 8" m length, lined with blue cloth and set 
on hinged steel plates attached to the jacket by means of the lower poitlon of 
the hmged plate passing through a cloth loop at the shoulder scam and fastening 
at the neck by means of a small size screw button, 

(iv) Medals. — Miniatures will be worn for Mess Functions, the buttons edge 
of the bar to touch the top edge of pocket-flap and the miniature hanging to 
button ol pocket For State Functions full size medals will bo worn. 

(v) Overalls. — Dark blue cloth (during cold weather) and white drill (during 
hot weulherj of the same shade as that of the jacket with 2 stripes of 2" plain 
mohair braid apart down the outside seam, Black leather foot straps with 
steel buckle. Slacks may be worn as an alternative wear, but should be without 
lurn-ups like evening dress trousers and will bo of the same material as the 
jacket with 2 stripes cf 2" plain mohair braid apart down the outside seam, 
trousers to be shaped frem instep to heels, bottom to measure 18". 

(vi) Foot Wear. — Mess Wellingtons of the regulations pattern or black leather 
ankle boots without laces, if worn with slacks, sh'all be worn without spurs, but 
with overalls spurs shall always be used. 

(viil Spurs. — Box with plain rowels only to be used when wearing overalls 
with Wellingtons or ankle boots. 

(vili) Head Dress.- — Blue forage cap with patent leather peak as prescribed 
previously The Director, Intelligence Bureau and the Inspector General will 
have the oak-leaf work in silver right round the peak. Deputy Inspectors Gene- 
ral and Selection Grade Superintendents will have similar oak-leaf work on 
the front side. Other Superintendents of Police and Assistant Superintendents of 
Police will have plain patent leather peaks. 

Bx) Badges of Rank. — The Director. Intelligence Bureau and the Inspectors 
General will wear silver embroidered badges of rank on the shoulder cord on a 
blue background while the others will wear them on the shoulder cord itself with 
no background, 

•Note: — Those in possession of the existing Mess Kit may continue to wear It 
with the modification suggested with regard to the shoulder cords.” 

[No. 13/50/57-AIS(III).l 
New Delhi, the 27 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 10, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the 
following- amendment in the Indian Police Service (Recruitment) Rules, 1954, 
namely: — 

In the said rules, the following proviso shall be added to sub-rule (1) of rule 5, 
namely: — 

‘‘Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply to a person recruited to 
the Service from amongst the members of a State Police Service 
under sub-rule (1) of rule 9 of these rules or under regulation 3 of 
the Indian Police Service (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1957.” 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have comei into force on and from the 
1st July, 1957. 

[No. 13/40/57-ADS(III)-A.] 

S.R.O. 11— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), thci Central Government, after 
consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes the 



6 


THE GAZEl'TF OF INDIA. JANUARY 1, 10r,8 VUIS\ H, 1879 


[P\RI II 


following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service. (Recruitment) Rules, 
1954,, namely: — 

In the said rules, the following proviso shall be added to sub-rule (1) of rule 5, 
namely:— 

“Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall apply to a person recruited to 
the. Service from amongst persons referred to m sub-rule (1) or sub- 
rule (2) of rule 8 of these Rules or from amongst persons serving in 
connection with the affairs of a State under clause (b) of regulation 
3 of the Indian Administrative Service (Special Recruitment) Regula- 
tions, 1956." 

[No. 1 3/ 40/57 - AIS( III ) . 1 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23 rd December 1957 

S.R.O. 12 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (2), (3) and 
(4) of Section 114 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (37 of 1956) and of all 
other powers enabling it in this behalf the Central Government hereby makes, with 
effect from 1st November, 1956, the following further amendment to the All India 
Services (Reorganisation of Cadres) Order, 1956, published as S.R.O. 2511 in Part 
II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India (Extraordinary) dated the 30th October, 1956, 
namely: — 

In the Second Schedule annexed to the said Order — under the Heading 2 — - 
Bombay and sub-heading "A-Indian Administrative Service" after Item 168, the 
following Item shall be added, namely 

16a Shu H H. Trlvedi . ..... -do-. 


[No. 26/27/ 57-AIS(II) J 
S, P. MUKERJEE, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 26th December 1957 

S.R.O. 13.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (a) of sec- 
tion 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 (11 of 1878), the Central Government here* 
by exempts the Bhutan Frontiers Guards platoon in charge of Jamadar Sangye 
Dorji attached to the Maharaja of Bhutan proceeding from Sirdindhi in Bhutan 
t- Diwanglri via Banarhat and Ran^a. from the operation of the prohibitions 
and directions contained In sections 8, 10 and 13-15 of the said Act, In respect 
of the arms and ammunition possessed by them. 

[No 17/ 18/57-Police(IV).] 

. New Delhi, the 29th December 1957 

S.R.O. 14. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (a) of 
section 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 (11 of 1878), the Central Government 
hereby exempts Lieutenant Gadul Shumshcre Jung Bahadur Rana and 2/Lt. 
Amrit Bahadur, Nepa’ese Army Officers leaving for training on 30th December 
for Mhow Infantry School, from the operation of the prohibitions and directions 
contained in sections 6 and 10 of the said Act, in respect of the following arms 
and connected ammuntlon, if any: — 

1. One -303 rifle No 25982. 

Two '33 bore revolvers Nos 144532 and A29190. 

2 One rifle MK-IV 7TC5495. 

[No, 17/19/57-Policc IV.] 

1 S. L. MATHURIA, Under Sccy. 


New Delhi, the 28th December 1957 

S.R.O. 15. — II is hereby notified for general Information that the Government 
of Jammu Sc Kashmir to which the Police Act, 1888 (III of 1888) extends 



7 


Sec. 3] THE GA/.L 1 1 E Of INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14. 1879 


have consented under section 4 of that Act to the exercise, within the territory 
of that State, by the Police force of every other State, of the powers conferred 
by section 3 of the said Act. 

[No. 17/2/57-PoIlce(I) .] 
RAJ KUMAR, Dy. Secy. 


Nero Delhi, the 30th December 1957 

S.R.O. 16. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Government hereby appoints: — 

1. the Deputy Commissioner, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, as “Chief 

Inspector of Boilers’’ for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 

2. the Engineer and Harbour Master, Port Blair, as the “Inspector of 

Boilers” for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in respect of boilers 
other than boilers which come under the control of the Marine 
Department of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 

3. the Chief Engineer of m.v. “Nicobar” as “Inspector of Boilers” for the 

Andaman and Nicobar Islands in respect of boilers coming under 
the control of the Marine Department of the Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands. 

[No. 58/1/51-ANL-1957.J 

S.R.O. 17. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 29 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Government hereby makes, with 
effect from the 4th January, 1958 the following rules, the same having been pre- 
published as required by section 31 of the said Act, namely: — 

THE ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS BOILER RULES, 1957 

I. Preliminary 

1. Short title and extent. — (1) These rules may be called the Andaman and 
Nicobar Islands Boiler Rules, 1957. 

(2) They shall apply to the Union Territory of the Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands. 

2, Definitions. — In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the sub- 
ject or context — 

(a) "the Act” means the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (V of 1923); 

(b) "section” means a section of the Act; 

(c) “regulation” means a regulation of the Indian Boiler Regulations, 

1950, framed by the Central Boilers Board under section 28 of the 
Act. 


II. General 

3. Ft* how to be paid. — All fees, costs and penalties payable under the Act 
or any regulation framed thereunder or these rules, shall be deposited in a 
Government Treasury under the head “XXXVI— Miscellaneous Department 
Miscellaneous,— Fees for the Inspection of Steam Boilers”, by Challan in tripli- 
cate, the original copy being forwurded to the Inspector of Boilers, Andamans, 
together with the application for inspection, An application under section 7 or 
section 8 of the Act to which the treasury receipt obtained on payment of the 
prescribed fee is attached shall be deemed to be accompanied by the prescribed 
fee. 

In the case of fee! payable by Government Departments, the payment shall 
be made by book transfer. 

4. Appointment of Inspectors,— The appointment of the Chief Inspector and 
the Inspectors of Boilers shall be regulated by such terms and conditions as the 
Central Government may prescribe in this behalf, 

III. Fees 

5. Calculation of the fees for registration of boilers. — (1) Fees required to 
accompany applications under sub-section (1) of section 7 shall be calculated 
on the basis of boiler rating as prescribed in regulation 384. 



8 


THE GAZETTE OF INOU tRY -1 IMS EA.USA 14, 1874 [Part II 


(2) The formula for calculating boilei rating shall be as prescribed in 
regulation 383 

0 Kinds of fees and other charges, — The following fees aie prescribed, 
namely — 

(1) Registration fees — Fees for registration and first inspection of boilers 

shall be as prescribed m regulation 385 

(2) Fees for inspection for renewal of certificates — Fees required to 

accompany applications for the issue of renewed certificates under 
sub section (4) of section 8 shall be Rs 40/- for each boiler 

(3) Application of the above fees — The fees mentioned in clauses (1) and 

(2) shall cover thorough inspection, hydraulic test and steam test 
where such are necessary, subject to the provisions of section 14(2) 

(4) Second fees for re-inspection of defective boilers and inspection in 

default — A second fee shall be leviable for the le inspection of a 
defective boiler and also m any case where the inspection of a 
boiler is begun, but, owing to the fault or neglect of the owner or 
person m charge, is not completed within a period of six months 
from the date of commencement of inspection 

(5) Fees for duplicate certificate — Duplicate certificates for bonaflde pur- 

poses may be issued to boiler owners under the orders of the 
Inspector in receipt pf a fee of Rs 3/- per copy 

(6) Fee for copy of Registiation Book— For each copy Rs 5/- 

(7) Additional fee for inspection on Sundays and certain holidays — (a) 

Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (3), an additional fee of 
Rs 50/ shall be charged for the inspection of a boiler on a Sunday 
or any other public holiday, piovided that such inspection is made 
at the request of the owner of the boiler 

(b) The additional fee charged under sub-clause (a) shall be paid in the 
manner prescribed in rule 3 

(8) Payment of Inspector’s travelling expenses in certain cases — (a) In 

addition to the above fees, the Inspector’s travelling expenses shall 
be realised from owners, whose boilers are not ready for inspection 
on the first visit made on their application, for every additional 
visit paid by the Inspector for the completion of the Inspection 

lb) If the owner of a boilei requires an inspection at a time when It 
would be necessary for the Inspector to undertake a special journey 
for the purpose, an additional fee equal to the travelling allowance 
of the Inspector and his attendant staff, if any, from and to the 
Inspector’s headquarters as determined by the rules for the time 
being in force for grant of travelling allowance to Inspectors, shall 
be paid by the owner of the boiler m addition to the fees, prescribed 
in this rule 

Provided that if two or more owners apply for inspections which are 
made m the course of a single such journey, the additional fee 
prescribed in this clause shall be recovered from such owners in 
such proportion as the Inspector may determine 

7. Refund of fee.— Fees paid in excess and fees paid for inspections which, 
for any reason not due. to any fault or omission of the owners or persons in 
charge of boilers, have not been made shall be refunded by the Inspector if the 
refunds are applied for within one year from the date of payment, or may be 
met off by the Inspector against the fees for the inspections of any other boilers 
of the same owner 


IV Duties of the Chief Inspection 
8. Chief Inspector’s duties. — The Chief Inspector shall — 

(a) enter under his own signature all orders required by section 7; 

(b) decide all appeals against the order of the Inspector under section 19; 

(c) prepare the budget estimates for carrying out the purposes of the Act 



Sfc. S] THE GA/E1IE OI- INDIA. JANUARY 1, 1958, PAUSA 14, 1879 


9 


V, Duties op the Inspector 

9. Inspector's duties. — The Inspector shall work under the administrative 
control of the Deputy Commissioner and shall submit to him— 

(a) an Annual Report on the administration of the Act; 

(b) such other reports and returns as may be called for. 

10. Maimer of Inspection.- — The mam duties of Inspectors as laid down in the 
Act shall be the inspection and examination of boilers and steam pipes for safety. 
Inspections shall be, carried out strictly in accordance with Chapter IX of the 
Regulations and Parts VIII and IX of these rules. 

11. Other duties of Inspector. — The Inspector shall — 

(a) personally check the registration and measurements of all newly 

registtred boilers, the initial -working pressure and shall report the 
result of the examination to the Chief Inspector for orders; 

(b) enter under his own signature any subsequent entries required in the 

registration book; 

(c) prepare a programme of inspections with due regard to the conveni- 

ence of owners generally; 

(d) maintain a memorandum of inspection book for each boiler under his 

charge; 

(e) receive applications for registration or inspection under sections 7 or 

8, make proposals for repairs, alterations or renewals under sec- 
tions 12 and 13 and receive reports of accidents under section 18; 

(f) enquire into accidents to boilers and steampipes and report to the 

Chief Inspector; 

(g) report to the Chief Inspector cases of unreported accidents and 

unauthorised repairs discovered at the, time of inspection. 

12. Instructions to be exhibited. — The Inspector may advise owners regarding 
the maintenance, working and cleaning of boilers. Such instructions as he may 
issue for this purpose, shall be hung up in each boiler house. 

13. Kegisrters.—The Inspector shall keep in his office — 

la) a register in Form A appended to these rules of all boilers registered 
in thei islands or the registry of which has been transferred from 
another State; 

(b) the registration book and memorandum of inspection book of all 

boilers borne on his register; 

(c) a register of appeals; 

(d) a register of accidents; and 

(e) a register of registration and inspection fees received. 

14. Application by owners. — When a certificate is required for a boiler, appli- 
cation shall be made by the owner to the Inspector in Form B, No. 1, appended 
to these rules, stating the date on which the boiler will be ready for inspection. 
Such application shall be accompanied by the treasury receipt in original obtain- 
ed on payment of the prescribed fee. In the case of boilers belonging to Govern- 
ment departments, the application shall be accompanied by the accepted book 
debit voucher for payment of the prescribed fee. The application when received 
should bear necessary endorsement thereon by the Cashier, showing that 
the fee and the extra fee, if any, chargeable for inspection on a Sunday or 
other holiday as laid down in clause (7) of rule 6 together with the, Inspector’s 
travelling expenses, if any, chargeable under sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) 
of clause (8) of rule 6 have been paid. If the date on which the boiler will be 
ready for inspection as stated in the application by the owner is unsuitable for 
inspection of the boiler, the Inspector shall fix a date within thirty days from 
the date of receipt of the application for such inspection and will give the owner 
not less than ten days notice in Form C, of the date so fixed. 

16. Kind of Inspection. — There shall be two kinds of inspection of boilers; — 

< a) When the certificate granted under this Act is about to expire or when 
it has been revoked or suspended under section 11 and the owner 
desires that it shall be renewed, a thorough examination, inside and 
outside, shall be made by the Inspector in person, for which our- 
pose the boilers must be prepared as required by regulation 376. 



10 


I ML G4/L1TE or INDIA JVNlfARI 4 1958 'P MJ5 A 14, 1879 [Part II 


(b) An ordinary Inspection may be made by an Inspector at any time for 
the ourpose of ascertaining whether a certificate should be revoked 
or suspended under section 11 

1 6 ' Enforcement of rules — In addition to the inspection and examination of 
boilers, it shall be the duty of the Inspector to search for unregistered or uncerti- 
ficated boilers within his area, and to see that certificated boilers are worked 
in accordance with the terms of their certificates and of any regulation or rule 
under the Act for safe working 

17 Advice by Inspector.— At the time of inspection, the Inspector may advise 
the owner or the person m charge of the boiler on the management and upkeep 
of the boiler with special reference to the amount of cleaning required in view 
of the quality of water used 

18 Declaration by Inspector. — When an inspection under the Act is complet- 
ed, the Inspector making it shall prepare a declaration m Form B — No. 2 r 
appended to these rules in column 8 of which the limit of the working pressure,, 
in pounds per square inch, shall be clearly noted. 

19 Inspector’s certificate.— Upon receipt of the declaration m the office, a 
certificate authorising the use of the boiler shall be prepared in Form VI pre- 
scribed by the regulations Such certificates shall be signed by the Inspector 
and shall be delivered to the owner, manager or agent of the steam boiler 
inspected 

The time for the inspection of a boiler shall be between sunrise and sunset. 

VI. Accidents 

20 Investigation by Inspector. — On receipt of a report of an accident to a 
boiler or steampipe under section 18, the Inspector shall, with the least possible 
delay, proceed to the place to investigate the accident 

21 Enquiry and report — (1) The Inspector at his enquiry shall make a care- 
ful examination of the damaged parts, and shall take suen measurements and 
make such sketches for the purposes of his report, as he may deem necessary 
He shall enquire into the circumstances attending the accident and note the time 
of its occurrence, its nature and extent, the injury caused to persons and the 
damage done to property The report should be made m Form D appended to 
these rules 

<2) The Inspector shall lake the written statements of witnesses and all per- 
sons immediately concerned with the accident In order to comply with the pro- 
visions of section 18(2), the Inspector shall present to the owner or person in 
charge of the boiler a series of written questions on all points that are material 
to the enquiry 

(3) The Inspector shall decide whether the use of the boiler can be permitted 
at the same or at a lower pressure without repairs or pending the completion 
of any repairs or alterations that he may order In no case shall he issue, a pro- 
visional order or renewal certificate, until his orders have been carried out 

(4) A brief account of ull accidents and their causes and measures to prevent 
re-occurrence shall be included in the annual report on the working of the Act. 

22 Unreported accidents. — If, in the course of an inspection or at any other 
time, the Inspector discovers damage which comes within the definition of an 
accident, but whit h has not been reported, he shall report the facts at once to 
the Chief Inspector for action under section 24(d) 

VII Appeals 

23 Appellate Authority. — In this part “Appellate Authority” means the Chief 
Commissioner of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 

24 Appeal to be In writing. — Every petition of appeal shall be in writing either 
in English or in Hindi 

25 Presentation of appeal. — -A petition o i appeal may be presented either 
personally or by registered post to the Chief Inspector. 

2fi Documents to be filed, — The petition of appeal shall be accompanied by the 
original ordei, notice or report appealed against, or by a certified copy thereof, 
or where no such order, notice or report has been made in writing, by a clear 
statement of the facts appealed against, the grounds of appeal, and the relevant 
section. 



II 


Src. Sj 1 1 IF. GA/.E1TE OF INDIA: J AND ARY 4, 1938/PAUSA H, 1879 


27. Date of hearing. — On receipt of an appeal, the Chief Inspector shall, if the 
appeal is to be heard by himself, at once fix a date for hearing the appeal, and 
if it is to be heard by the Appellate Authority, obtain a date for the hearing 
of the appeal from the Chief Commissioner. There shall be no delay in deciding 
the appeals. The decision shall ordinarily be given within ten days from the 
receipt of the petition of appeal. 

28. Notice to appellant.- — When the date for hearing has been fixed, the Chief 
Inspector shall at once issue a notice to the appellant stating the date fixed for 
hearing and informing him that if he wishes to be heard in support of the appeal 
or to produce evidence, he must be present either in person or by authorised 
agent with his evidence on the date fixed. The notice shall be sent by registered 
post to such address as shall be entered in the petition of appeal. 

29. Inspector when to b e present. — In nil appeals the Chief Inspector shall 
decide whether the presence of the Inspector is necessary and shall issue oiders 
accordingly. 

30. Powers of Appellate Authority. — The Appellate Authority shall have power 
to secure the attendance of witnesses and to make local enquiries and for this 
purpose shall exerhse the powers of a Court under the provisions of the Code 
of Civil Procedure, 1908. 

31. Exparte decision. — If the appellant is not present on the date fixed, the 
appeal may be uecided in his absence. 

32. Costs.— In appeals before it, the Appellate Authority, shall fix the costs 
and recover them from the appellant in any ease in which the appeal is dismissed- 
In all cases of appeal in which a local Inspection is required by the appellant, he 
shall deposit in advance the full costs of such inspection. 

33. Feea. — Any order on appeal authorising the registering of a boiler or the 
grant of renewal of a certificate shall be deemed to be subject to the payment 
of such lees as are prescribed by rules or regulations. 

VIII. Instructions for Registration 

34. Inspectors to carry out instructions.— Inspectors shall carry out the techni- 
cal instructions for the registration of boilers, as laid down in Chapter IX of the 
Regulations, with the greatest care and precision. 

35. Deficit fee to be paid. — No boiler shall be registered if on measurement 
the fee is found to be deficient, until the deficit has been paid. 

36. Register of boilers registered In the State. — The Inspector shall maintain a 
register of registered boilers in serial order in Form A in two parts; in Part I 
(boilers originally registered in the Islands) the registered number of a boiler 
shall be the one immediately following the last serial number in the register. 
Gap numbers due to boilers being broken up or transferred to another state 
shall not be filled up. In part II (boilers originally registered in other States), 
entries shall be made as prescribed in rule 37. 

37. Register of transferred boilers. — Whenever a boiler is transferred from one 
State to another, the owner shall, under section 6(b) apply to the Inspector of the 
State to which the boiler is transferred, for the registration of the transfer; the 
boiler cannot be used until registration has been effected. The Inspector shall 
then obtain from that State the registration book and memorandum of inspection 
book of the boiler. No fee shall be charged for recording transfer. 

On receipt of the registration and memorandum of inspection books, the Inspec- 
tor shall enter the boiler under its original number in Part II of his register. The 
registration book and the memorandum of inspection book shall be kept in the 
Inspector's office. 

38. Transfer of breaking up. — Whenever a boiler has been transferred to 
another State, or broken up, the fact shall be noted in the register. 

In the case of a boiler that has been permanently dismantled, the registration 
book and the memorandum of Inspection book shall be destroyed. 

IX. Instructions foii Inspection 

39 Inspection how carried out.— (1) The Inspector shall carry out the Inspec- 
tion of boilers in accordance with the detailed instructions contained in Chapter IX 
of the Regulations. The Inspector previous to an inspection shall scrutinize the 
memorandum of inspection book and shall note any entries that may have been 
made at the last Inspection. 



12 


THE GAZETTE OI INDIA: JANUARY I, 1958 PAUSA 11, 1870 


[IGmh 


(2) Inspectors when inspecting one boiler of a battery shall also examine the 
other boilers under steam, with special reference to the water gauges, pressure 
gauges and safety valves. 

40, Certificates and provisional orders— (l) All certificates shall be issued by 
the Inspector. 

A provisional order shall be issued in each case of registration after the 
hydraulic test if the Inspector is satisfied. The steam test may be taken at any 
convenient time within the period of the provisional order, after which, if the 
test is satisfactory, the certificate under section 7(6) shall he Issued. 

A provisional order shall also be issued Sfter each completed insnection for 
renewal of the certificate so as to give authority for the use of the boiler pending 
the issue of the certificate. 

The period specified in any certificate or provisional order shall begin on the 
day following that on which the completed hydraulic tost or thorough inspection 
is made. 

(2) Provisional orders and certificates shall be issued in Forms V and VI 
respectively prescribed under the Regulations, 


Form A 


(Rules 13 and 36 A 37) 

Boiler Inspection Deoit-tmcnt 

Register of Boilers 


Registry Type of Boiler Name Year Date of Nam; 1 ] Place Remarks 
Number Boiler rating of and registra- of where (Trans- 

Manu- place of tion owner in use ters 

faccurer Construction etc.) 


1 23436789 


In Part II of the register, column I should contain the registry number and letters. 

Issued by the Registered No. 

INSPECTOR OF BOILERS, 

ANDAMANS. Certificate No. — 


Form B— No. i 
(Rule 14) 

Application for Inspection of Boilers and Steam Pipes 
Division I 


Registered No. of Boiler Name of Owner 

, or Agent 

Where 

situated 

Date of ins- 
pection 

Description of 
Boiler and age. 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 


I hereby submit application to the Inspector of Boilers for inspection of and the grant of a 
certificate tor the boiler above named, together with the Treasury receipt in original obtained on/ 
accepted Book Debit Voucher in original for payment of the prescribed fee specified below. 


Dated at 


This- 


■day of- 


19 • 


Owner or Agent, 



Stc. 3] THK G \/ETTIL OK INDIA: JANUARY 1, 1958/P UGA 14, 1879 


Division II 

(To be sent to owner with application form.) 
I certify that the following fees and expenses are payable: — 


Boiler No. 


Boiler rating 


Fees 


13 - 


Extra fee for Sunday and holi- 
day inspection and other ex- 
penses. 


Total 


i 


2 


3 


4 


5 


N.B : This form with Division I, duly filled in together with the Treasury receipt in original 
obtained on accepted Book Debit Voucher in original for payment of the prescribed fees and ex- 
penses specified above, must be forwarded as soon as possible to the office of the Inspector of 
Boilers, Andamans in order that the necessary inspection may be made. 

Payment of fees by Book Transfer is applicable in the case of Government Departments only. 
Dated at Andamans, 

This ■ — day of — — — -19 . Inspector of Boilers. 


Division III 

I hereby certify that Rupees Annas and pies have 

been deposited in— — — - — - — — Treasury as per receipt/accepted for adjustment by 

Book Transfer — -—Voucher No.—— — — -dated ———19 , 

on account of the inspection of the boiler above named. 


Dated at Port Blair, 

This day of 19 


Cashier, 

Office of the Inspector of Boilets. 


Form B — No. 2 
(1 Vide Rule r 8) 
Declaration of Inspection 


Registered No, of 
Boiler ' 

Description and 
material. When 
and where made 

Repairs and al- 
teration since last 
inspection 

Purpose for 
which used 

Boiler rating. 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 


Date of last Hydrau- Date of inspection Limit of working Date of hydrau- Remarks 
lie test and pressure pressure of boiler lie test of steam 

applied in pounds per pipe 

square inch. 


6 7 8 9 10 


I hereby declare, viz. 

(1) That the above named boiler was duly inspected by me on the 19 , and 

found to be in accordance with the rules and requirements of the Indian Boilers Act, 
V of 1923. 

(2) That the boiler with attached steam pipes is in charge of a — —and is not so 

exposed as to be dangerous. 

(3) That the said boiler will, in ray judgment, be sufficient for a period of — -months 

at a working pressure, which is on no account to exceed the pressure “per square inch, 
in pounds’’ stated in column 8 of this form. 

Dated at 

This day of 19 , 

Inspector^ 





14 


THE CA/ETTF. OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 11*58 PAUSA 14, 1870 


[Pari TI 


Form C 
(Vide Rule 14) 

Notice of examination of boiler under sections 7 and 8 

No of 19 

Boiler Inspection Office, 
Dated the 19 


To, 


In reply to your application, dated > you are hereby informed 

that boiler registry No. at the above named premises will be thoroughly 

examined/hydraullcally tested by the Government Inspector on the 

To enable the examination to be made, you are bound- 

la) to allord to the Inspector all reasonable facilities for the examination 
and all such information as may reasonably be required of you; 

(b) to have the boiler properly prepared and ready for examination in the 

prescribed manner; and > 

( c ) In the case of an application for the registration of a boiler, to provide 

such drawings, specifications certificate and other particulars as may 
be prescribed. 

Voucher No in acknowledgement of Bank/ Treasury Receipt No. 

-for Rs. accompanies. 

Inspector of Boilers. 

(See reverse for preparation required). 

(Reverse of Form C) 

Preparation for examination 
(See Chapter IX of the Regulations) 

(a) Preparation for thorough Inspection , — At every inspection of a boiler for 
the grant or renewal of a certificate, the boiler shall be empty and thoroughly 
clean in all its parts. All doors of manholes, handholes and sightholes and clean- 
ing plughs and all caps in the headers and mud-drums of water tube boilers, all 
firebars, bearers, front plates, bridge plates, fire-bridges, brick arches, oil fuel 
burners and mechanical stoker fittings shall be removed. All valves and cocks 
comprising the boiler mounting shall be opened up and taken apart and the valves 
and cocks ground, when necessary, before the inspector’s visit. 

Provision shall be made for the removal of lagging or brickwork or other 
concealing part and for the drilling of plates, if required by the Inspector, and 
for verifying the pressure gauge and safety valve, dimensions and weights. 
All smoke tubes, exterior of water tubes, smokei boxes, and external flues must 
be swept clean. 

Provision shall be made for the effective disconnection of all steam and hot 
water communication with any other boilers under steam, as prescribed In 
Chapter X of the regulations. This shall be ellected either by the removal of a 
length of pipe from the steam and feed piping or by the insertion of substantial 
blank flanges. Where blank flanges are employed they shall be Inserted between 
the flanges of the chest and the pipe attached to it. No blank flange shall be 
inserted between a safety valve chest and the boiler. 

Note. — These provisions as to effective disconnection shall extend to every 
case wherein a person Is sent, or with the assent of the owner or person in charge 
goes, into a boiler for any purpose. See Chapter X of the Regulations. 

(b) Preparation for Hydraulic Test . — The chest of all mountings subject to 
■steam pressure shall be in place and shut tight or blank flanged. The safety 



-SFr. 3] THE CAZE1IE Ol JM1IA JANUARY 1, 1958/PAUSA II, 1879 15 


valves shall be removed and the chest opening blank flanged. The attachment 
lor the Inspector’s pressure gauge and the nipple/ for connecting the Inspectors 
test pump hose shall be in order. All doors shall be properly jointed and 
tightened up. The boiler shall be completely filled with water, care being taken 
to allow all air to escape and. if possible, a preliminary test not exceeding the 
working pressure of the boiler shall be taken before the Inspector’s visit to test 
the tightness of the joints. When a boiler hydraulically tested for the first 
time, it shall be entirely cleared of lagging or brickwork; at subsequent tests 
the lagging or brickwork or portions thereof shall be removed if required by 
the Inspector. 

Note.— T he last certificate for the boiler shall be shown to the Inspector. 

’Tapped 3/4" with worth bolt and nut thread. 

fTapped 3/4" with worth bolt and nut thread. 

Form D 
(See Rule 21) 


I. Date and place of accident. 

' 2. Date of report of the accident to 
the Inspector. 

3. Name and address of the owners. 

4. Persons killed or injured. 

5. Description and nature of injury 

caused to persons killed or 
injured. 

6. Description and principal dimen- 
sions of the boiler. 

7. Name of maker and age of boiler. 

8. Particulars and date of repairs 

carried out to the boiler since 
registration. 

<). The date on which the boiler was 
last inspected, and remarks. If any, 
made by the Inspector. 

10. Nature of the accident. 

II. Cause of the accident. 

12. General remarks, if any. 


PRESIDENT’S SECRETARIAT 
(Office of the Military Secretary to the President) 

New Delhi, the 23 rd December 1957 

S.R.O. 18 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil 
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby 
directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to the 
notification of the Government of India in the Office of the Military Secretary to 
the President No. S.R.O. 611 dated the 28th February, 1957, namely: — - 

In Part I of the said Schedule, under the heading “Office of the Military 
Secretary to the President” after "Supervisor, President’s Household” 
and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be inserted, 
namely— 

(,1) (2) (3) 

Assistant Military Secretary Militar\ Sc’retary All 

Steno trap/er to the President to the President 

[No. 63/AE/13.1 
B. CHATTERJEE, Under Secy 


[No. 58/1/51-ANL-1957.J 
S. SRINIVASAN, Under Secy. 



16 THF GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 1, 1958/FAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi , the 23 rd December 1957 

S.R.O. 19. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to rule 19 
of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the 
President hereby directs that the powers to make temporary appointments not 
exceeding one year to Central Civil posts Class I in the Naga Hills — Tuensang 
Area shall be exercised by the Governor of Assam, 


[No, D. 0999-NEFA/57(i).] 


S.R.O. 20. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Proviso to Article 
ill 111 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to direct that the power to make 
rules regulating the recruitment to the Central Civil Posts class IV in the Naga ' 
Hills — Tuensang Area shall be exercised by the Deputy Commissioner or Additional 
Deputy Commissioner. 


[No. D. 6999-NEFA/ 57(11).! 


S.R.O. 21. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 11, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 14 and sub-rule (1) of rule 23 of the Central Civil 
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, the President hereby 
directs that — 

(1) In respect of the posts in the General Central Service, Class II, specified 

in column 1 of Part I of the Schedule to this order, the authority 
specified in column 2 shall be the Appointing Authority and the autho- 
rity specified in column 3 shall be the Disciplinary Authority in regard 
to the penalties specified in column 4. 

(2) In respect of the posts in the General Central Service, Class III and the 

General Centra] Service, Class IV, specified in column 1 of Parts II 
and III of the said Schedule, the authority specified in column 2 shall 
be the Appointing Authority and the authorities specified in columns 3 
and 5 shall be the Disciplinary Authority and Appellate Authority 
respectively in regard to the penalities specified in column 4, 


Part I. — -Generai, Central Service, Class II 


Authority competent to impose 
penalties and penalties which it 

Description of Post Appoinling may impose (with reference to item Penalties 

authority numbers in rule 13 ) 

Authority 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Ministry or External Affairs 
Naga Hills — Tuensang Area 

All posts President . . President • All 

Temporary appointment 
not exceeding one 
year. 

Governor . . Governor . . All 

Temporary appointment 
not exceeding six 
months. 

Commissioner ■ Commissioner . All 



Srr. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 19GS/PAUSA 14, 1879 17 



Part TT. — General Central Servicf. Class III. 


Description of post 

App< urging 
authority 

Autho-i' y com""--' cE to impose 
pen si ties and pen ' 1 Pics which 
it mty impo - '’ (vvi'h reference 
to it m >1 mbers in r lie 13) 
Au'hii’i'y Penalties 

Appellate 

authority 

I 

2 

3 4 

5 

Ministry of External 

Affairs 



Naga Hills ■ — Tuensang Area 



All posts 

CommibbioTicr 

Commissioner . All 

Governor 


Temporary appoint- 
ment not exceeding 
one year. 

Deputy Con mi s in- 
ner/ Additional De- 
puty Commissioner. 

Dcpu 1 y Comminsio- It) to (in) 
j er/A ddi 101 . 1 De- 
puty Commi doner. 

Dei cl \ Comm i' sion- All 
i.cr/Addi 10 .1 De- 
puty Commit , 1 loner. 

Assist l Commissio- (») to (iii) 
nc G ides I and 11 

Sub-Divisional Offi- 

Commissioner 

Commissioner 

Commissioner 



eer. 


Part III. — General Central Service, Class IV. 

Description of post 

Appointing 

authority 

Authority competent to impose 
penalties and penalties which 
it may impose (with reference 
to nem numbers in rule 13 ) 

Appellate 

Authority 



Authority Penalties 


I 

2 

3 4 

5 


Ministry of External 
Affairs 

Naga Hilh — Tuensang Area 

All posts . Deputy Commission- Deputy Commission- All 

er/Additional Dc- er/Arfditional De- 
puty Commissioner, puly Commissioner. 

Assislaul Conmiissio- (i) to (Hi) 
ners : Grades I and 
II. 


Temporary appoint- 
ment not exceeding 
one year 

Assist tun Cummi’ i- 
oner/Onuts 1 imd 
II Sub-Divisional 
O ftcer. 


Sub-Divisional Offi- 
cer. 


As d tint Commrs- 
ionei-. Gmues I and 
II; Sub-Divisional 
Officer. 


All 


Commissioner. 


Deputy Com- 
missioner/ 
Additional 
Deputy 
Commissioner 


Deputy Coni- 
n' is; inner / 
Additional 
Deputy Com- 
missioner. 


[No. D. 699-NEFA/ 57 (111).] 
G. S. PURI, Dy. Secy. 




3 g THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


New Delhi, the 26 th December 1967 

SJl.O. 22. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (b) of Sub-Section 
<2) of Section 3 of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 (43 of 1954), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby makes the following further amendment in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs No. S.R.O. 3449(SMA-53), 
dated the 20th October, 1955, namely: — 

In the Table below the said notification— 

(i) in the! entry relating to "France and Norway” in column 1, the words 

“and Norway” shall be omitted; 

(ii) after the entry relating to Netherlands, the following entry shall be 

inserted, namely:— 

"Norway” — Ambassador, Embassy of India Oslo (Norway). 

“Norway” — Second Secretary, Embassy of India Oslo (Norway). 

[No. 59-Cons/67.] 
N. V. AGATE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 24 th December 1957 

SJt.O. 23.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 27 of the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (Act 7 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules to govern the procedure to be followed in respect of 
adjudication proceedings and appeals under the said Act, namely: — 

THE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS AND APPEAL RULES, 1957 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Adjudication Proceedings and 
Appeal Rules, 1957. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, — 

(a) “Act” means the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (7 of 1947); 

(b) “Director” means the Director of Enforcement appointed under the 

Act. 

3. Adjudication proceedings. — (1) In holding an inquiry under sub-section (1) 
of section 23D of the Act for the purpose of adjudging under clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 23 whether any person has committed contravention, the 
Director shall, in the first instance, issue a notice to such person requiring him 
to show cause within such period as may be specified in the notice (being not 
less than ten days from the date of service thereof) why adjudication proceedings 
should not be held against him. 

(2) Every notice under sub-rule (1) to any such person shall indicate the 
nature of the offence alleged to have been committed by him. 

(3) If after considering the cause, if any, shown by such person, the Director 
is of opinion that adjudication proceedings should be held, he shall fix a date 
for the appearance of that person either personally or through his lawyer or 
other authorised representative. 

(4) On the date fixed, the Director shall explain to the person proceeded 
against or his lawyer or authorised representative, the offence alleged to have 
been committed by such person indicating the provisions of the Act or of the 
rules, directions or orders made thereunder in respect of which contravention 
is alleged to have taken place, 

(5) The Director shall then give an opportunity to such person to produce 
such documents or evidence as he may consider relevant to the inquiry and if 
necessary, the hearing may be adjourned to a future date; and in taking such 
evidence the Director shall not be bound to observe the provisions of the Indian 
Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872). 

(6) If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear before the Director on 
any date fixed by the Director under this rule, the Director may proceed with 
the inquiry in the absence of such person after recording the reasons for doing so. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 19S8/FAUSA 14, 1879 19 


(7) If, upon consideration of thd evidence produced before the Director, the 
Director is satisfied that the person has committed the contravention, he may, 
toy order in writing impose such penalty as he thinks fit in accordance with the 
provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 23. 

4 Contents of the order of the Director. — (1) Every order under sub-ruie (7) 
«f rule 3 shall specify the provisions of the Act or of the rules, directions or 
orders made thereunder in respect of which contravention has taken place and 
shall contain brief reasons for such decisions. 

(2) Every such order shall be dated and signed by the Director. 

5. Copy of the order. — (1) A copy of the order made under sub-rule (7) of 
rule 3 shall be supplied free of charge to the person against whom the order is 
made and all other copies of proceedings shall be supplied to him on payment 
of copying fee calculated according to the scale prevailing in the State in which 
the office of the Director of Enforcement is situated. The copying fee shall be 
paid in cash. 

(2) Every copy of such order shall bear the following particulars, namely: — 

<a) that the copy is supplied free of charge for the use of the person to 
whom it is issued; 

(b) that an appeal lies against the order to the Appellate Board under 
section 23E within thirty days of the date of the order. 

0 Form of Appeal. — (1) Every appeal presented to the Appellate Board under 
section 23E of the Act shall be in the form of a memorandum signed by the 
appellant and the memorandum shall be accompanied by a copy of the order 
appealed against. 

(2) The memorandum shall set forth concisely and under distinct heads the 
grounds of objection to the order appealed against without any arguments or 
narrative and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively. 

7. Procedure before Appellate Board. — (1) On receipt of an appeal under 
rule 6, and a report from the Director, the Board may fix a date for the hearing 
of the appeal. 

(2) On the date fixed for the hearing of the appeal, the appellant shall be 
heard in support of the appeal. 

(3) Where on the date fixed or any other day to which the hearing of the 
appeal may be adjourned, the appellant fails to appear when the appeal is called 
on for hearing, the Appellate Board may decide the appeal on the perusal of 
the records of the case. 

8. Contents of the order in appeal. — The order of the Appellate Board shall 
be in writing and shall state briefly the grounds lor the decision. The order 
shall be signed by the member of the Appellate Board. 

9. Computation of period of limitation. — In computing the period of limitation 
prescribed for appeal under section 23E. the period between the date on which 
the order is made by the Director and the date on which it is despatched to the 
party concerned shall be excluded, 

.10. Representation of party. — Any person who has been proceeded against 
under section 23 may appoint a pleader, advocate or any other person to appear 
and plead and act on his behalf before the Director or the Appellate Board in 
any inquiry or appeal under the Act. 

11, Service of notice. — A notice issued under these rules shall be served on 
any person in the following manner, that is to say, 

(a) by delivering or tendering the notice to that person or his duly 

authorised agent; or 

(b) by sending the notice to him by registered post with acknowledgment 

due to the address of his place of residence or his last known place 
of residence or the place where he carries on, or last carried on, 
business or personally works, or last worked, for gain; or 

<c) if the notice cannot be served under clause (a) or clause (b), by 
affixing it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the 
premises in which that person resides or is known to have last 
resided, or carried on business or personally works or last worked 
for gain and the written report thereof should be witnessed by two 
persons. 



20 


T11E GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAITSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


12. Savings. — Nothing in th«se rules shall be considered as preventing the 
Director from making a complaint in writing to the Court under the proviso to 
sub-section (1) of section 23D of the Act instead of imposing any penalty himself. 

[No. 1 (5) -EFVII/67.] 
A. C. BANERJEE, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 26 th December 1967 

S.R.O. 24. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 63 of the Bank- 
ing Companies Act, 1949 (U> of 1949), the Central Government, on the recom- 
meildaiion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of 
sub-section (2) of section 19 of the said Act shall net for the period ending 
with the 31st December 1958, apply to the Bank of Jaipur Ltd. in respect of 
the shares of the Howrah Boap Co, Ltd , and the J.K. Eastern Industries Ltd. 
held, by it on the 28th October, 1955. 1 

[No. 4(183)-F.I/57.J 
R. K. SESHADR'I, Dy. Secy. 

(Department of Economic Affairs) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 30 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 25. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), of 
section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (74 of 1956), and in partial modifi- 
cation of the order of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) 
S.R.O. No. 2077, dated the 22nd June, 1957, the Central Government hereby 
specifics the persons mentioned in column 3 of the Schedule hereto as the 
authorities to whom the dealers in the various Districts in the Union Territory 
of Himachal Pradesh described in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the 
said Schedule shall make application for registration under the said section: 

Schedule 


SI. Description of dealer Description of authority 

No. 

(I) (a) (3) 


i. Dealers having a single place of business or more than 
one place ot business in the District of- • 


(i) Sinnur 
(ji) Mahasu 
(Hi) Bilaspur 
(it >) Mandi 
(v) Chamba 


Collector, Sirmur 
Collector, Mahasu. 
Collector, Bilaspur. 
Collector, Mandi. 
■Collector, Chamba. 


2 . Dealers having no fixed place of business in any of 
the Districts named in item (t) above. 


Chief Secretary, Himachal 
Pradesh Administration. 


[No. F. 9 (56) -ST/57. J 
M. K. VENKATACHALAM, Dy. Secy. 

(Department of Company Law Administration) 

Company Law 

New Delhi, the 23 rd December 1957 

S.R.O. 26. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 641 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following alterations in Part I of Schedule V to the said Act, namely:— 

For sub-c'auses (a) and (b) of clause 5 In the said Part, the following shall 
be substituted, namely:— 

"(a) containing the names, addresses, descriptions and occupations, if any, 
of all persons who, on the day of the company’s last annual general 
meeting, are members or debenture holders of the company and of 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 21 


persons who have ceased to be members or debenture holders on cr 
before that day and since the date referred to in oUo-, muse (h) of 
clause 3, or, in the case of the first lauii, suite in. .ucu.pji'tuun 
of the company; 

(b) stating the number of shares or debentures held by each of the existing 
members or debenture holders, as the case may be, at th date 
referred to in sub-clause (b) of clause 3, sp.cifying shares or 
debentures transferred since the date referred to in sub-cl use (h) 
of clause 3, (or, in the case of the first iotmn, since tne incorpora- 
tion of the company) by persons who are still memb.rs or deben ure 
holders and by persons who have ceased to be members or debenture 
holders, and the dates of registration of the transfers;”. 

[File No. 8/159/56-PR.J 
F. N. SANYAL, Under Seely. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi , the 27 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 27. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
<1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1856 (I of 1956), the Central Government 
hereby appoints until further orders, Shri Narsingh Dass Gupla, acting Registrar 
of the Judicial Commissioner’s Court, Himachal Pradesh, Simla to be the ex- 
officio official liquidator attached to that court for the period 2nd December, 1957 
to 29th December, 1957 vice Shri H. L. Soni. 


[No. 2(27)-CL.III/56.] 

S.R.O. 28. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv rb'r'-' 1 (■• 1 of =ub-section 
(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1956), lhe Central Government 
hereby appoints until further orders, Shri Chet Ram acting Registrar of the 
Judicial Commissioner’s Court, Himachal Pradesh, Simla, to be the ex-officio 
official liquidator attached to that Court for the period 30th December, 1957 to 
31st March, 1958 vice Shri Narsingh Dass Gupta. 


[No. 2(27)-CL.III/56.] 
P. B. SAHARYA, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

Customs 

New Delhi, the 21th December 1957 

S.R.O. 29. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) as in 
force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government 
hereby exempts from the whole of customs duty p-ramai a-id h~bsNiold effects not 
covered by any exemption allowed under rules mace unde 1 ’ section 75 of the said 
Act, and excluding motor cars, motor cycles or other motor veil cles, arms and 
ammunition, cinematograph films of standard width and eo ’su cable stores, when 
imported by or on behalf of a person on a bonafide transfer ol residence to India 
or the State of Pondicherry after continuous residence abroad ior a period of not 
less than three years, provided that — 

(a) the goods are duly declared and produced to the Customs officer at 

the port of importation and are covered by a duly cer'ffied declaration 
of ownership and use abroad in the form set out in tne Appendix to 
this notification, and 

(b) the Customs Collector is satisfied that the goods have been in the 

owner’s possession and use for not l°ss than cne year and that they 
are being imported by the owner for his (or her) personal or domestic 
use and not for sale., and 

(c) the goods are imported within the time limits fixed r the Baggage 

Rules made under section 75 of the said Act. 



22 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 fPARt II 


Appendix 

Form of Declaration 

Owner’s Declaration in respect of personal or household effects liable to 
any duty and not exempted under the Baggage Rules. 

Note. — The owner of the effects to which this declaration relates should 
carefully read the information on the back of this form before completing the 
declaration. 


PORT OP 

I hereby declare that the undermentioned articles are my personal (and 
household) effects and that — 

(a) they have been in my possession and use for not less than one 
\ year, 

(b) they are intended solely for my own wear or use and are not intend- 

ed to be given to any other person or sold, 

(c) I have resided continuously out of India since (give date), and 

(d) I have arrived in India (the State of Pondicherry) on a bonafi.de: 

transfer of residence with the intention of staying in India or the 
said State for at least a period of one year reckoned from the date 
of my arrival in India (the said State) . 


No. or quantity and description of articles. Date and place of purchase and cost of 

arUcics. 


Declared before me this day of 19 

Signature of Owner 

Address Full name of Owner. 

Signature and rank or qualification of witness. Date, 


(The following to be printed on the back of the form) 

( See note 3 below) 

1. Under Section 167(37) (b) of the Sea Customs Act of 1878 (8 of 1878), 

heavy penalties are involved for making false declarations or falsely answering 
questions. 1 1 

2. For the purpose of this declaration te following definitions are given: — 
Personal effects — articles ordinarily requird by a passenger for his private 

use. 

Household effects — furniture and articles of domestic use, imported by a 
householder when transferring his residence from abroad to .this 
country; not including motor cars or motor cycles, arms or consum- 
able stores. 

3. In the case of effects accompanied by the owner the declaration must be 

made before an Officer of Customs. Where the effects are not accompanied 
by the owner the declaration may be made before a Justice of the Peace or 
Magistrate. I 

In cases where effects are to be transferred to India or the State of Pondi- 
cherry in advance of the owner’s arrival, the declaration may be made before 
a Customs Officer in any part of India or the said State or before on Indian 
Consular Officer In any foreign country. 


[No. 322.] 



23 


SEC. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 1, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


S.R.O. 30. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as In force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Governemnt hereby makes the following an mdment In 
the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance Department (Central 
Revenues) No. 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June, 1935, as amended Horn time to* 
time, namely: — 

The entry at serial number 54A of Schedule I to the said notification and 
Appendix A to that Schedule shall be omitted. 


[No. 323. J 


New Delhi, the 4th January 1958 

S.R.O. 31. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicberrv, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendmenl in the notification of th§ Government of India in the late Finance 
Oeparunent (Central Revenues) No. 1-Customs, dated the 9th March, 1946, 
n amclv : — - 

In the Schedule to the said notification, the following entry shall be omitted, 
namely : — 

“13 Carbcn black for the manufacture The 

of printing ink and black paint. whole" 

[No. 1.] 

S.R.O. 32. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division), No. 66-Customs, dated the 
10th July. 1954, the Central Government hereby exempts lamp black and carbon 
black, being articles falling under item 87 of the First Schedule to the Indian 

Tariff Act. 1934 (32 of 1934), when imported into India or the State cf Pondi- 

cherry for the manufacture of printing ink or black paint, from the whole of 
the duty of customs leviable thereon under the second mentioned Act: 

Provided that in respect cf any consignment of lamp black or carbon black 
imported under cover of a claim for exemption from duty in pursuance of the 
pi ovisions hereof, the importer shall— 

either execute a bond in such form as may be prescribed by the Customs- 
Collector binding himself, in a sum, equal to the amount of duty 
ordinarily leviable on such goods, to pay, on demand, the duty 

leviable on such quantity of lamp black or carbon black as is not 

proved to the satisfaction of the Customs-Collector to have been 
used in the manufacture of printing ink or black paint, 

01 , if the Customs-Collector so directs, deposit with the Customs-Collector 
a sum equal to the amount of duty leviable on such goods ponding 
nroduotion of proof, to Ihe satisfaction of the Customs-Collector, 
that the goods have been used in the manufacture of printing ink 
or black . paint; on production, within such period as the Customs- 
Collector may prescribe, of such proof, the Customs-Collector shall 
cause the amount of the deposit to be refunded to the Importer. 

[No. 2.J 

M. A. RANGASWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


(Departinent of Revenue) 

Central Excises 

New Delhi, thg- 4th January 1958 

S.R.O. 33. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 12 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 



24 


THE CA7ETTE OF INDEX- JANUARY 4, 1 958/ PAX ISA 14, 1879 [Part IJ 


amendments In the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division) No. 10-Central Excises, dated the 5th April 1949, namely: — - 

In the Table annexed to the said notification, in column 4 against Serial 
No. 9— 

(i) for the entry “Four rupees per ton”, the entry "Rs. 40-00 per ton” 
shall be substituted; 

(II) for the entry “Five and one third rupees per ton”, the entry “Rs. 50-35 
per ton” shall be substituted; and 

(iii) for the entry “Six rupees per ton”, the entry “Rs. 60 00 per ton” shall 

* be substituted, 

[No 1/58.] 

S.R.O. 34. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 12 of the Central 
Hxcise Rules, 1044, as applied to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments In the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India, Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division) No. 45-Central Excises, 
dated the 1st November 1954, namely: — 

In the Table annexed to the said notification, in column 4 against Serial 
No, 9— 

(i) for the entry “Four rupees per ton”, the entry “Rs. 40- 00 per ton” 

shall be substituted; 

(ii) for the entry “Five and one third rupees per ton”, the entry “Rs. 53-35 

per ton” shall be substituted, and 

(iii) for the entry “Six rupees per ton”, the entry “Rs. 60-00 per ton” shall 

be substituted. 

[No. 2/58.] 

L. S. MARTHANDAM. Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 4th January 1958 

S.R.O. 35. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2C) of 
section 10 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) and m supersession 
of the rules published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. S.R.O. 2110, dated the 29th 
June, 1957, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely:- — 

1. These rules may be called the “Income-tax Allowances (Current Profits 
Deposit) Rules, 1957”. 


Definitons 

2. In these Rules, — 

(1) “Act” means the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922); 

(2) “approved purpose” means auv purpose which involves the utilisation of 
the financial resources of a company for — 

(i) capital expenditure for the construction, erection or acquisition, by 

way of replacement or otherwise, of buildings, lund, plant, machinery 
and other fixed assets required for the purpose of the existing business 
of the company; 

(ii) repayment of moneys borrowed by the company on the security of its 

fixed assets for the purpose of carrying on such business; 

(iii) and includes any other purpose including repayment of borrowings other 

than those referred to in (ii) aforesaid, the application of the financial 
resources of a company on which is, in the opinion of the Commis- 
sioner of Income-tax or Board of Referees, having regard to the 
nature of the company’s business (and such other circumstances as 
he or the Board of Referees may consider relevant) , justified: 

Provided that where the total income of a company includes any income which 
arises outside India, in a country the laws of which prohibit or restrict the remit- 
tance of money to India, such income (as reduced by the amount of tax payable 



Vc. 3] THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, I958/PAUSA 14, 1879 2 $ 


thereon in that country) shall, to the extent it cannot be brought to India by 
reason of such prunibn.-on or restriction, be regarded as having been utilised 
on an approved purpose; 

(8) “Bank" means the Reserve Bank of India and includes its agencies carry- 
ing on agency business on behalf of the Reserve Bank of India; 

(4) “Board of Referees” means the Board of Referees appointed under rule 
17; 

(5) “current profits deposit” or ‘deposit’ means the deposit which a company 
has to make with the Central Government under sub-section (2B) of section 10 
of the Act at a percentage of the amount by which the statutory surplus, as 
hereinafter defined, exceeds the sum of rupees one lakh; 

(6) “due date” with reference to deposit means the 30th day of June of the 
assessment year relevant to the previous year or the dale of expiry of a period 
gif six months from the end of the said previous year, whichever Is later; 

(7) "Form” moans a Form appended to these Rules; 

(8) “statutory surplus” means the aggregate of the following amounts, 
namely,— 

. (a) the total income of the company for the previous year, as reduced by 

the amount of income-tax and super-tax payable in respect thereof 
(the total income and tux being computed by the assessee for this 
purpose) and by die dividends, if any, declared or deemed to be 
declared in India, during the previous year; and 
(b) the sum of the allowances claimed by the company under clauses (vi), 
(vi-a), (vl-b) or (vii) of sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Act. 

Computation of the Deposit in certain Cases 

3, For the purpose of determining the current profits deposit in the case of 
a company incorporated outside India, the dividends deemed to be declared in 
India during any previous year shall be — 

(a) if the company is resident, the dividends, if any, declared by it at the 

place of its incorporation, during the previous year, and 

(b) if the company is non-resident, the amount, if any, which the com- 

pany has, with the permission of the Reserve Bank of India, remitted 
outside India during the previous year out of its income, profits and 
gains in India. 

4. Where any portion of the profits and gains of a company is not included 
in its total income by reason of such portion being exempt from tax under any 
provision of the Act, the amount of the dividends declared or deemed to be declar- 
ed in India during the previous year shall, for the purpose of determining the 
current profits deposit, be deemed to be such proportion thereof as the total income 
of the company for the previous year bears to its total profits and gains for that 
year reduced by such allowances as may be admissible under the Act which 
have not been taken into account by the company in its profit and loss account 
for that year. 


Procedure for Making the Deposit 

5. The deposit shall be made by the company on or before the due date with- 
out any notice or requirement therefor from the Income-tax Officer who shal' 
make available to the company on request the requisite number of challans to 
enable it to make the deposit. 

6. The amount to be deposited shall be calculated in whole units of rupees 
fractions of a rupee being ignored. 

7. The amount shall he deposited with the Bank who will credit it to the 
Government account under the head of account; 

F. Deposits and Advances— B. Other Deposits Accounts — Other Deposits— 
Deposits under the Income-tax Al'owances (Current Profits Deposit) 
Rules, 1957. 

8 . The e'vnmnv fg q ii flff-oon flsvs of making a deposit, furnish to the 

Income-tax Ollier r a s atement in Form A showing the basis on’ which it com- 
puted the amount of the deposit and a receipt from the Bank for the amount 
deposited. 



26 THE C.A/ETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, I933/FAUSA 14, 1879 [Fart ir 


9. If it so desires, a company may, in lieu of making a deposit of money in 
the Bank, deposit Government securities of the requisite market value with the 
Bank, which shall hold such securities in its custody, and the provisions of these 
rules relating to refunds shall apply to the return of such securities as they apply 
to refund of deposits. No interest shall be payable by the Government on the 
securities deposited under these rules except, the interest due on the securities 
according to the terms of their issue which will be periodically realised and paid 
by the Bank after deduction of the usual collection charges. 

10. (1) Where the sum of the amounts, if any, actually deposited and deemed 1 
under rule 11(2) to have been deposited by a company is less than the amount 
found due to be deposited on the basis of the total income, as computed by the 
Income-tax Officer for purposes of an assessment under section 23, the Income- 
tax Officer may direct the company to deposit within 30 days of receipt ol his 
direction, an amount equal to such deficiency, together with interest thereon at 
6 per cent, for the period commencing on the, due date and ending with the date 
on which such additional deposit is made: 

Provided that where the company has made a representation under sub-rule 

(1) of Rule 11 and as a consequence the amount actually utilised or required 
to be utilised on approved purposes determined under sub-rule (2) or sub-rule 
(4) of the said rule is equal to or exceeds the statutory surplus as computed by 
the Income-tax Officer, there shall be no direction from the Income-tax Officer 
for an additional deposit under this sub-rule,. 

(2) Notwithstanding that the period allowed in sub-rule (1) for making the 
additional deposit has not expired, the Income-tax Officer may complete the 
assessment of the company for the, relevant year as if no deposit has been made 
or is deemed to have been made on the due date under sub-section (2B) of 
section 10 of the Act: 

Provided that in such a case the: collection of that portion of the tax as is 
attributable to the sum of the allowances under clauses (vi), (via), (vlb) and 
(vii) of sub-scction (2) of the said section 10 which have been disallowed as 
aforesaid in computing the total income, shall be deferred till the expiry of the 
period given for making the additional deposit; and if sjich additional deposit is 
made within the period allowed, the assessment shall be rectified by reducing 
the total income by the amount of allowances aforesaid, 

(3) Where the amount of deficiency mentioned in sub-rule (1) together with 
interest thereon calculated as aforesaid is not deposited by the company within 
the period allowed, the company shall be deemed not to have made any deposit 
under sub-section (2B) of section 10 for the relevant year, and thereupon the 
Income-tax Officer shall issue an intimation to that effect to the Board of 
Referees, and the Board of Referees shall Issue to the Bank an order for refund 
of the amount, i any, deposited by the, company for that year, and such amount, 
shall not carry any interest. 

11. (1) Where a company having utilised on purposes mentioned in clauses 
(i) and < ii) of sub-rule (2) of rule 2 of the whole oh a substantial portion of its 
moneys represented by reserves and accumulated profits and any finances other- 
wise available to it — 

(a) has also utilised on such aforesaid purposes; or 

(b) requires for application before the due date on such aforesaid purpose 

or on a purpose which it requires to be declared as an approved 
purpose within the meaning of clause (iii) of sub-rule (2) of rule 2, 

the whole or a part of the moneys attributable to the statutory surplus relating 
to that previous year and in consequence, thereof finds that the balance of the 
moneys attributable to the statutory surplus is or will be insufficient to make 
the full amount of the current profits deposit due for that, year, it may before the 
15th of April, following the, previous year or within three months from the end 
of the previous year, whichever is later, make a representation in Form B to 
the Commissioner of Income-tax, in that behalf, furnishing therein adequate 
proof to establish the. facts aforesaid: 

(2) The Commissioner of Income-tax shall consider the representation made 
by the corhpariy under sub-rule (1), and after making such enquiries or calling 
for such information from the company as he may consider relevant, he shall — 

(i) determine, where necessary, the total amount of moneys which have 
been utilised or are required to be. utilised on approved purposes; 



2 ? 


Stc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PA USA 14, 1879 


(ii) determine the portion of the moneys attributable to the statutory 

surplus which have been so utilised or required to be utilised; 

(iii) determine the balance of the moneys attributable to the statutory 

surplus which remains after excluding therefrom the portion mem 
tioned in (ii); 

(iv) determine the amount by which the balance mentioned in (iii) falls 

short of the current profits deposit; and 

(v) direct that the amount mentioned in (iv) shall be deemed to have 

• been deposited by the company on the due date and refunded to it 

on the same date. 

(3) Where under sub-rule (2) the Commissioner of Income-tax does not 
allow the company’s representation in full, he shall, within ten days of his making 
the order under sub-rule (2), transmit to the Board of Referees the. company’s 
representation together with all the relevant documents on which he based his 

* decision. 

(4) On receipt of the papers transmitted to them under sub-rule (3) the 
Board of Referees may, after making such enquiries or calling for such informa- 
tion from the company or the Commissioner of Income-tax as they consider 
necessary and after giving an opportunity to the company of being heard In the 

* matter, pass such orders thereon as they think fit and the provisions of clauses 
(i) to (v) of suh-rule (2) shall apply to the. decision of the Board of Referees 
as they apply to the decision of the Commissioner of Income-tax. 

(5) Notwithstanding that a representation made to the Commissioner of 
Income-tax under sub-rule (1) is pending, or that a direction has been made by 
the Commissioner of Income-tax under sub-rule (2), or that an order has been 
passed by the Board of Referees under sub-rule (4), the company shall not be 
exempted from the consequences of not making the full amount of deposit dde 
under sub-section (2B) of section 10 of the Act — 

(a) unless — 

(i) the balance of moneys attributable to the statutory surplus not 
utilised nor required for application on ‘approved purposes’ accord- 
ing to the computation of the company under Sub-rule (1), plus 
(11) the portion not exceeding the excess of the current prolits deposit 
over the amount referred to in (i) of the moneys required by it 
for application on the purposes referred to in clause, (b) of sub- 
rule (1) which are not so applied before the 30th day of June 
following the previous year or the expiry of six months from the 
end of the. previous year as the case may be, 
are actually deposited with the Bank in accordance with the pro- 
visions of rule 5; and 

(b) unless the amount by which that part of the current profits deposit 

which under sub-rule (4) is not deemed by the Board of Referees 
to have been deposited by the company exceeds the amount specified 
In clause (a) above, is actually deposited with the Bank on Or before 
the due date or within 15 days of receipt by the company of the 
order of the Board of Referees under sub-rule (4R whichever is later, 

12. Where two or more companies amalgamate, the amounts deposited by 
them shall be treated as having been deposited by the new amalgamated concern, 

, Interest 

13. Except as otherwise provided in these rules, any amount deposited shall 
carry simple interest at the rate which may be notified by the Central Govern- 
ment for each financial year. The interest shall be allowed from the day com-- 
mencing next after the date on which the deposit is actually made; and such 
interest shall be computed on the basis of daily balances and paid by the Bank 
as on 31st March and 30th September by debit to the head of account: 

22. Interest on Debt and Other obligations — C. Interest on other obliga- 
tions — Interest on Deposits under the Income-tax Allowances (Cur- 
rent Profits Deposit) Rules, 1957. 

Rffunds 

14. If at any time, the company requires the whole or part of the deposit al- 
ready made for- carrying out any of the purposes referred to in clauses (i) 
and fii) of sub-rule (2) of rule 2 or any purpose which it requires to be declared 



28 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA; JANUARY 4, J 958/P AUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


as an approved purpose within the meaning of clause ( lii) of that sub-rule, it 
may apply to the Board of Referees in Form ‘C’ for a refund of such amount, or 
the return of such securities as arc required by it for carrying out the said pur- 

E oses, and if the Board of Referees is satisfied that the said requirement cannot 
e met out of the available resources of the company, they may issue an order 
of refund on the Bank authorising it to refund such amount and to return such 
securities as the Board considers necessary in the circumstances of the case. 
The amouni refunded shall be debited to the head of account: 

“P. Deposits and Advances — B. Other Deposits Aecoimts — Other Deposits — 
Deposits under the income-tax Allowances (Current Profits Deposits) 
Rules, 1957. 

15. Where the total income of a company determined by the Income-tax 
Officer in the assessment made by him under section 23 of the Act Is finally 
reduced as a result of any other proceedings under the Act, and the deposit 
originally made by the company exceeds the amount of the current profits deposit 
calculated with reference to the total income as so reduced finally, and the 
amount of deposit actually hold by the Bank exceeds the current profits deposit 
so calculated, the Income-tax Officer shall, on an application being made in this 
behalf by the company in Form ‘D’, determine the amount of such excess and 
communicate it to the Board of Referees who shall issue to the Bank an order 
for the refund to the company of such excess. 

10. Any amount deposited by a company under sub-section (2B) of section 
10 of the Act, shall, to the extent it has not been previously refunded under these 
rules, be refunded to it on the 1st day of April, 1966 or on such later date as may 
be notified by the Central Government. 

Board of Referees 

17. The Central Government shall appoint a Board of Referees consisting of 
as many members (one of whom shall be designated as the Chairman) as the 
Raid Government may appoint from time to time for performing the duties allotted 
to them under these Rules. 

18. The Board of Referees shall work under the general control of the Cen- 
tral Government. 

Miscellaneous 

10. No appeal shall lie against an order of the Board of Referees passed under 
sub-rule (4) of rule 11 or rule 14, which shall be final as respects the matters 
•concluded by it. 


Form ‘A’ 


(See Rule 8) 

Statement made to the Income-tax Officer under rule 8 of the Income-tax Allowances (Cm tint Profits 
Deposits) Rules , 19S7, showing the Company's computation of the Cut rent Profit Deposit under 
Subsection (zB) of Section io oj the Indian Income-tax Act 1922. 

Name of Company 

Registered Office 

The Current Profit Deposit made by the Company in respect of the year ended 31st March 
is as iufiows : — 

1, Net Profit of the Company according to its Profit 

and Loss Account lot the previous year ended Rs. 

2. Adjustments to above In arrive at the to'al income of 

the Company for income-tax purpose-'— 



Sec. 3] THE GA7ETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAITSA 14, 1879 


29 


Rs. 

3. Total income for income-tax pmpu'en. 

4. Add allowances under ec ton jou'ivd, (vb\ Ivib) 

and (vii) of the Income-' ax Ac , dedue'ed in 

arriving at the to'al income above . Rs. 


5. Total of 3 and 4 ..... Rs. 

6. Deductions under sectirn 1CH2B) : 

(a) Total dividends declared or deemed to be de- 

clared in India dui mg tl e pieviov yeui . Rs, 

(b) Income-tax an l Super-tax payable by the Com- 

pany on tl c to al income — 

Income-lax . . , Rs. 

Surchatgc . . . Rs. 


Corporation tax less rebate . R r . Rs. Rs. 

7. Excess of 5 over 6 ..... Rs. 

Less ...... R,. 1,00,000 

Balance ...... R,, 

8. Amount to be deporited at % Rs. 

on Rs 

Rs. 

9. Amount deporited on (date! . . Rs. 

10. Difference, if any, for which exemption is ‘epaia'e- 
ly claimed 01 obtained (tnelose copy of apphcation 

under Rule 11(1) if any . Rs. 


Place Signature 

Date for Ltd. 

To 

The Income-tax Officer, 


Form ‘B’ 

[S'cc Rule 1 1(1)] 

Application under .sub-rub (1) of Yule 11 of the Income-tax Allowances (Current Profits Dtpesiiy 
Rules , 1957 for deeming that a company made a dtfctit unaa ttf-'uiiii (2 b' cj tutiih jc of 
the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 


To 


The Commissioner of Income-tax 


1. We, Limited, having our registered office 

at , do hereby declare:— 

(i) that according to our calculations, the slululoiy Fin plus of the company cc input ed under 
the at ore' aid rule' if R- ; (vide '’a ement 1 cnclo ed here- 

with). 

(») that the company Will be required to make a dcpo'it with the Government of India 
under sub-'cc 1 ion (2B, of section 10 i file Inccrne-iax Act, J922, fot tl c 3’car ending 

on the 31st Muich ol a 1 11111 ol rupee' 

again,! the cmrcnl pioliis ol tl e year cnc.ilig on vide 

Statement No. 2 cnclo' cd heievlib. 

(in) that, on the date of tins appl ca ion, tl e total ameunt cf moneys which have been 
utilised or are required to be 11 lined By ll-e company for carrying out approved pur- 
poses is Rs vide statement No. 3, Item 1. 

(iv) that the portion out of (hi 1 which is anribulal k 1o tl c statutory surplus is Rs 

vide Statement No. 3 item 3. 



30 


1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Pari II 


(d) that the balance of the moneys altribuiable to the statutory surplus which remains 
after excluding the relrom the portion mentioned in clause (tv) is Rs. 

(w) that the amount by which the balance mentioned in clause (v) tails short of the deposit 
required to be made by the company clause (h) is Re. 

2. We, therefore piay that under sub-rule (i) ol Rule n of the Income-tax Allowances 
(Current Profits Deposit) Rules, T957, the Commissioner of Income-tax may direcl lhal it shall be 
deemed that the company has deposited on. . . tor the year ending 

on 31st March , , a sum of rupees 

... against thetcurrent profits, and that refund of 
like amount has been granted to the company on the same date. 


Place 

Date 


Signature 

for . . . , Ltd. * 


Statement No. i 


Computation of the Statutory surplus of the Company. 


1. Net profit of the Company according to its profit and 

loss account lor the previous year ended . 

2. Adjustments to above to arrive at the total income of the 

Company for income-tax purposes . 


Rs. 

Rs. 

Rs. 


Rb. 


Rb. 


3 Total mce me for income-tax purposes , . , Rs. 

4 Add allowances under Section 10(2) (vi), (via) ( vti i) and 

(lu) i f the Income tux Act, deducted m arriving al the 
total income ...... Rs. 


5, Total of 3 and 4 Rs. 

6. Deductions under Section io(2B) 

(a) Total dividends declared or deemed to be declared 

in India during the previous year . . . . Rb 

(b) Income-tax and Super-tax payable by the Company 
on ilie total income — 

Income-tax .... Rs. 

Surcharge .... Rs. r 


Corporation tax, less rebate . . Rb, Rs. Rb. 

7. Excess of 5 over 6, representing the statutory surplus . Rs. 

(Place) Signature 

(Date) for Ltd. 


Statement No. 2 

Computation of the Current Profits Deposit 


a. Statutory surplus as per Statement No. 1 Rs. 

Less Rs, 1,00,000 

Balance ......... . Rs. 

2, Amount required to be deposited at . . . . % on Rs .... Rs. 


(Place). . 

Date) 


for 


Signature . . . . 


Ltd. 



Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4 , 1958 /PAUSA 14 , 1879 3' 


S'iatlm; \t No. 3 

1. The Company’s total requirements for approver! purposes : 

(») Amount already utilised since commencement of the previous year 
and upto the date of application on purposes mentioned at clauses 
(i) and («) of sub-rule (2) of Rule 2. (Details furnished separately) . Rs. 

(z'i) Amount further required to be utilised before the due date on such 
aforesaid purpose or on a purpose which the company requires to be 
declared as an a pproved purpose within the meaning of clause (m) of 
sub-rule (2) of rule 2. (Details furnished separately) . R»- 


Total • • Rs. 


2. Investments of the company according to the balance sheet 

as at . . . Re. 

(0 Government securities . Rs. 

(if) Debentures of companies & local authorities . Rs. 

(Hi) Shares of other companies ..... Rs. 

(iv) Loans, deposits and other non-trading advances . Rs. 

(v) Other properties or asses and income from which its 

not chargeable to income-tax as profits or gains of 
the business carried on by the company Rs. 

(vi) Cash in hand and at bank . . . . . Rs. Rs. 

Less : Investments or moneys claimed by the company to be necessary for the 
existing business or as being locked up outside India in a country the 
laws of which restrict or prohibit remittance of funds to India (details should 
be annexed) ft, It , . . . y* . y*> . 48 . , - . • R 8 - 

B"* ;?•***►• # turn* w’wv'w u — 

Balance, representing the amount of available resources not already utilised in 

approved purposes as at the commencement of the previous year pfl . Rs. 

Add: Any fresh capital or loans or other finances raised or to be raised by the 
company after the last day of the year preceding the previous year and 
before the due date Rs. 

Total . . 


3. Excess of 1 over 2 ......... Rs. 

4. Amount of moneys out of 3 above, representing the portion attributable 

to the statutory surplus which has been utilised or is required to be 
utilised by the company for carrying out approved purposes. In cases 
where the profits and gains of a company include income which iB not 
included in its total income, e.^., agricultural income, the amount in item 
4 should first be determined as if the whole profits and gains of the com- 
pany were includible in the total income. Having done so, only that 
proportion of the amount bo determined should be shown against item 4, 
as the total income of the company for the previous year to its total pro- 
fits and gains for that year, reduced by such allowances as may be ad- 
missible under the Act, which have not been taken into account by the 
company in its profit and loss account for that year.) 

Details regarding these puposes and expenditure already incurred or require- 
ed etc., should separately be furnished. 


Place). 

(Date) 


for 


Signature . 


Ltd. 



32 


THE GA 7 ETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 4 , 1958 /PA USA 14 , 1879 [Part II 


Form ‘C’ 

( See Rule 14) 

Application for Rufund under Rule 14 of the Income-tax Allotvances ( Current Profit; 

Deposit ) Rules, 1957 


To 

The Board of Referees, 


We, Limited, having our Registered Office at 

enclose herewith a Memorandum of Dep< sir issued on 

by the showing tire amount 

of cash and securities held in derosit on out of the deposits made bV 

us under sub-section (2B) of sectioi 10 of the Indian Incomc-trx Act, 7522, and do hereby declare— 

(I) that the available resources of 1 he company are insufficient to defray Lhe expenditure for 

carrying out the approved purposes of the company (to the extent ofRs as 

shown in Statement I enclosed) 

(IF iheitfoie tl rt tut o{ the rmourt and the securities shown in the Memorandum men- 

tiorci ,bo\t astir ifR; and the securities listed in Statement 2 enclosed 

art KQuiitc ft'' mill 1 tut tl e pin jt Et met in en in Statement I. 

2. We, thctcfoie, pray for a refund of the sum of Rs and the return of the 

securities listed in Statement 2. 

3. We hereby declaied that the amount refunded and the Securities returned will be utilised for 
carrying out the purposes aforesaid within six months of the date of the refund of money and the 
return of the securities. 

(Place) Signature 

(Date) for Ltd. 

Statement No. 1 

Computation of the available resources of the Companyland requirement for approved purposes 

as on the date of the application. 

1. The company’s total requirement for approved purposes: 


Purpose for which expenditure is likely to be incurred Amount Period during which 

required the expenditure is 
Rs. likely to be incurred 


Total amount required 

2. Investments of the company as on the date of application for refund: 

(i) Gorcrnmet t securities ..... Rs. 

(ii) Debentures of comp nics and local autboiity . Rs. 

(iii) Shf * 1 of other companies. . . . Rb. 

(iv) Lo ns, deposits and other non-trading advance . Rs. 

(v) Other properties or assets the income from which is not 

chargeable to ircomc-rax as profits or gains of the 
business carried on by the company . Rs. 

( vi) Cash in hand and at bank ..... Rs. 

Rs. 

LESS: Investments or money clain cd by the company to be necessary for the 
existing business or as [ eir.g locked up outside India in a 
country the laws of which restrict or prohibit remittance 
ot lunds to India (details should be annexed) . . . . Rs. 


BALANCE : Representing the amount of available resources not already utilised 

xn approved purposes . s on the date of application . . . Rs. 

3. Excess of (1) over (2) (excess of total requirements for approved purposes over available 
resources to the extent of which refund is required). 



33 


Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


(In cases where the profits and gains of a company include income which is not included in 
its total income, t’.g., agricultural income, the amount in item 3 Bhould first be determined as if 
the whole profits and gains of the company were includible in the total income. Having done so, 
only that proportion of the amount so determined should be shown against item 3, as the total 
income of the company for the previous year bears to its total profits and gains for that year, 
reduced by such allowances as many be admissible under the Act, which have not been taken into 
account by the company in its profits and loss account for that year.) 


[Place) 

’Date) 


Signature 

for 


Ltd. 


Statement No. 2 


Particular of Securities Face Value ,, 

Rs 

Rs 

Rs 

(Place) Signature 

(Date)* for 


Ltd. 


Form ‘D’ 

(See Rule 13) 

Application for determination of excess deposit under Rule 15 of the Income-tax Allcnvances 
(Current Profits Deposit) Rules , 1957. 


To 

The Income-tax Officer, 


We, Limited, having our Registered Office at 

have deposited Rs under sub-section (2B) 

of section 10 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 for the year ended 31st March 

2. The amount of the current profits deposit for the abovementioned year based on the total 

income as reduded by the order of the is Rs 

3. We, therefore, pray that the excess amount deposited, namely, Rs may be 

communicated to the Board of Referees for enabling them to authorise the refund of that amount. 

4. We enclose herewith the Memorandum of Deposit issued on by the 


(Place) Signature 

(Date) for Ltd. 

[No. 129-IT.] 

N. H. NAQVI, Dy. Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Bombay , the 4 th January, 1958 


S.R.O. 36. — Whereas it appears that 


Description 

1 . Constantino liquor 

2. White Horse liquor 

3. Goa Country liquor 

4. Betelnuts in 3 guny 

bags. 

5. Old aluminium 

utensils. 


Quantity 

34 bottles, 
5 bottles. 
9 bottles, 
1 Md. 30 Srs. 


Issued under the Imports and Exports 


the marginally noted goods which were 
seized in the jurisdiction of Chowkey 
No. 74 at a place known as Talyachi 
Rai on Goa border on 22nd August 
1957 were imported by land from 
Goa (Portuguese Territory in India) 
in contravention of Section 5(1) of 
the Land Customs Act 1924 and the 
Government of India, Ministry of 
Commerce and Industries, I.T.C. Order 
No. 17/75, dated 7th December 1955 
(Control) Act 1947 and deemed to have 


been issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and whereas the Goa 



34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


[Part II 


Country liquor was imported In contravention of the Government of India, Finance 
Department (Central Revenue) Notification No. 2-Camp Cus., dated 26th 
January 1946 issued under Section 19 of the Sea Customs Act 1878. Now there- 
fore any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the 
Deputy Collector of Central Excise, Bombay why the abovementioned goods should 
not be confiscated under Section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act 1924 read with 
Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a penalty should not be 
imposed on him under Section 7(1) (c) of the Land Customs- Act 1924 read with 
Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878. 

If such an owner does not turn up to claim the abovementioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette, the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed property and the case will be decided 
accordingly, i i 


[No. VIIKb) 10 (79) Cus. /37.] 


Quantity 
105 bottles 

15 

1 10 „ 


8.R.O. 31. — Whereas it appears that the marginally noted unclaimed goods 

which were seized In the 
Jurisdiction of Chowkey 
No. 70 at Amgaon on the 
Goa Frontier on 3rd April 
1967 were imported by 
land from Goa (Portu- 
guese Territory in India) 
in contravention of Sec- 
tion 5(1) of the Land Cus- 
toms Act 1924 and the 
Government of India, Mi- 
nistry of Commerce and 
Industries, I. T. C. Order 
No. 17/55 dated 7th De- 
cember 1955 issued under 
(Control) Act, 1947 and deemed to have been 
of the Sea Customs Act 1878 end whereas the Goa 

of the Government of India, 
No. 2 Camp-Cus dated 26th 


Description 

1. Macierifl Foreign sealed liquor bottles 

2 . White Horse sealed bottles of F. liquor. 

3 . Johnny Walker’s Foreign whisky liquor 
bottles' 

5 . Five sealed bottles of white Horse 
whisky and 2 bottles of Delafarge 
Brandy. 

4 . Constantino sealed bottles and Goa 
country. 

5 . Betelnuts. 

<5- Empty G. Bagcs- 


J ’ 


4 » 

2 •> 

about 30 Srs. 
11 olb. 


the Import and Export 
issued under Section 19 

Country liquor was imported in contravention 
Finance Department (Central Revenue) Notification 
January, 1946 issued under section 19 of the Sea Custms Act 1 878 now therefore 
any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the Deputy 
Collector of Central Excise, Bombay why the above-mentioned goods should not 
be confiscated under section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act 1924 read with section 
167(8) and Section 188 of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and why a penalty should 
not be imposed on him 'under Section 7(1) (c) of the Land Customs Act 1924 
read with section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878. 


If such an owner does not turn up to claim the above-mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette, the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed property and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 1 


[No. VIIKb) (89) Cus/67.] 


S.R.O. 


38.— Whereas it appears that the margin ally noted unclaimed goods 

W /V. jf-Tl , ■»_ r .1. . 


luanttty 


Description 

Constantino Fine old 50 Brandy packed in four 
(bottles) gunny begs 


which were seized at 
Shitoda Gharii villages on 

a. - _ — i the Goa border on 18/19th 

June 1957 were imported by land from Goa (Portuguese Territory in India) in 
contravention of Section 5(1) of the Land Customs Act 1924 and the 
Government of !ndia. Ministry of Commerce & Industries, Import Trade Control 
Order No. 17/55 dated 7th December, 1955 issued under the Import & Export 
(Control) Act 1947 and deemed to have been issued under Section 19 of the 
faea Customs Act 1878. Now therefore any person claiming the goods is hereby 
called upon to show cause to the Deputy Collector of Central Excise, Bombay 



35 


SKu Sj THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


•why lire above-mentioned goods should not be confiscated under Section 5(3) 
of the Land Customs Act 1924 read with Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 
1878 and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under Section 7(1) (c) of the 
Land Custom Act 1924 read with Sectipn 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878- 


If such an owner does not turn up to claim the above-mentioned unclaimed 
goods or to show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days 
from the; publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette, the goods 
in question will be treated as unclaimed property and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 

[No. VIII (b) 10(94) Cus/57.] 


V. R. PHANSIKAR, 


For Deputy Collector of of Central Excise and Land Customs, Bombay. 


Bombay the 4th January 1958 

S.R.O. 39.— Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods 
Description Quantity which were seized at 

B. Mds. SeerB village Kulkod on the 
66 bags of white dried ‘Chali’ 6j 6 Indo-Goa border on 22nd 

variety betelnutg February, 1967 were im- 

ported ' by sea from Goa 

(Portuguese Territory in India) in contravention of the Government of India, 
Ministry of Commerce and Industries. I.TC. Order No. 17/66 dated 7th Decem- 
ber, 1955 issued under the Import and Export (Control) Act 1947 and deemed 
to have been issued under section 19 of the Sea Customs Act 1878. Now therefore 
any person claiming the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the 
Collector of Central Excise, Bombay why the above-mentioned goods should 
not be confiscated under Section 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 and why a 
penalty should not be imposed on him under the Bame section. 

If such an owner does not turn up to claim the above-mentioned goods or to 
show cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from the 
publication of this notice in the Government of India Gazette, the goods in 
question will be treated as unclaimed property and the case will be decided 
accordingly. 


[No. VIII (b) 10(87) Cus/67.] 
T, C. SETH, 

Collector of Central Excise and Customs, Bombay. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 23rd December 1967 

S.R.O. 40. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
5 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) and in supersession of its 
notification S.R.O. 3935 No. 116-Income-tax, dated 4th December 1957, the, Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that Shri J. P. Singh, a Commissioner of Income- 
tax, shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of 
such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes 
of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the State of 
Madras. 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him. 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income-tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area. 

While exercising the said functions the said J, P. Singh shall be designated as 
Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras. 

This notification shall be i deemed to have taken effect from the 16ih day of 
December, 1957 (forenoon). 



36 


THE GAZE'ITF OF INDIA: JANUARY -1, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


Explanatory Note 

Note. — The amendments have become necessary due to the change in the 
incumbent of Commissioner’s post. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clarifactory). 

[No. 125.] 


c I" exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 

5 of the Indian Income-tax: Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), and in partial modification of 
notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
« ifi r |? amld . ^rza, a Commissioner of Income-tax, shall perform 

all the functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of 
such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes or of 
such cases or classes of cases as are comprised In the Income-tax Circles, Wards or 
Districts in the Statei of Kerala and in the Coimbatore District in the State of 
Madras. 


Provided that he shall alsa perform his functions in respect of such persons or 
of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue to 
any Income-tax authority subordinate, to him. 

Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or mav be assigned to any Income-tax 
authority outside his jurisdictional area. 

While performing the said functions the said Shri Hamid Mirza shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income-tax, Kerala and Coimbatore with head- 
quarters at Coimbatore. 

2. This notification shall take effect on and from the 1st day of January, 1958. 

Explanatory Note 


Note,— The amendments have become necessary due to the change in the 
incumbent of Commissioner's post. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be 
merely clariflcatory). 


[No. 126,] 


S.R.O. 42.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
5 of the Indian Income, -tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) and in partial modification of 
all previous notifications on the subject, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
directs that Shri J. P. Singh, a Commissioner of Income-tax, shall perform all the 
functions of Commissioner of Income-tax in respect of such areas or of such persons 
or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes or of such cases or 
classes of cases as are comprised in the Income-tax Circles, Wards or Districts In 
the State of Madras excluding the whole of Coimbatore District. 

Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or of such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income-tax Authority subordinate to him. 

Provided further that fie shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or of such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income-tax 
Authority outside his jurisdictional area. 

While performing the said functions the said Shri J. P. Singh shall be 
designated as the Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras with headquarters at 
Madras. 

2. This notification shall take effect on and from the 1st day of January, 1958, 

Explanatory Note 

Nots. — The amendments have become necessary due to the change in the 
incumbent of Commissioner’s post. 

(The above note does not form a part of the notification but Is intended to be 
merely clariflcatory). 


[No. 127.] 



Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANU VRY 4 1958 /PA USA 14 , 1879 


37 


S.R.O. 43.— In exercise of the Powers conferred by s ^’ se ( S^ al (4 ^ oa °d 
of C Revenucf 

S.R.O. 2023 No, 08 -Income-tax, dated the 15 th June, laoi, nameiy. 


In the said notification— 

I. In the Schedule, 

( a \ af ter the sub-head “VIII— Delhi and Rajasthan” and the entries there- 
under, the following sub-head and entries shall be inserted, namely. 

“VIII-A— Kerala and Coimbatore" 


ERNAKULAM. l. Ernakulam Circle. 

2 . Alwaye Circle, 

3. Salary Circle, Ernakulam. 

4. Trichur Circle, 

5. Mattanchery Circle. 

6. E. D. cum I. T. Circle, Ernakulam. 

7. Special Survey Circle, Mattanchery (in respect of 
persons who have their principal place of business in or 
reside within the jurisdiction of I. T. circles mentioned 

above). 


TRIVANDRUM . . .1. Trivandrum Circle. 

2. Quilon Circle. 

3. Alleppey Circle. 

4. Kottayam Circle. 

5. Special Circle, Trivandrum. 

6. Special Survey Circle, Mattanchery (in respect of 
persons who have their principal place of business in 
or reside within the jurisdiction of I. T. circles men- 
tioned above). 

KOZHIKODE I. Kozhikode Circle. 

2 . Special Survey Circle, Mattanchery (in respect of 
personswhohave their principal place of business in or 
reside within the jurisdiction of the I, T. circle at 
Kozhikode). 

3. Mangalore Circle. 

4. Special Survey Circle, Bangalore (in respect of persons 
who have their principal place of buisness in or reside 
within the jursidiction of the I. T. Circle, Mangalore). 

COIMBATORE . . .1. Coimbatore Circle. 

2 . Special Circle, Coimbatore. 

3. E.P.T, Circle, Coimbatore & Erode. 

4. E. D. cum I. T. Circle, Coimbatore. 

5. Erode Circle. 

' 6, Special Survey Circle, Coimbatore (in respect of 

personswho have their principal place of buisness in or 
rcisde within the jurisdiction of the I. T, circle men- 
tioned above). 

7. Falghat Circle. 

8. Special Survey Circle, Mattanchery (in respect of 
persons who have their principal place of business in or 
reside within the jurisdiction of the I T. Circle 
Palghat). 


(b) under the sub-head “X — Madras’", for the entries in columns 1 and 2 , 
the following entries shall be substituted, namely: — 

I. MADRAS' A’ RANGE . . 1. Madras City Circle V. 

2 . Madras (Special) Circle. 

3. Madras Special (Central) Circle. 

4. Special Circle, Madras. 

5. Kancheepuram Circle. 

6. Veilore Circle. 

7. Special Survey Circle, No. 1, Madras (in respect of 
persons who have their principal place of buisnesB in or 
reside in the district of North Arcot and Chingleput). 

8. Foreign Section. 

9. Ootacamund Circle. 



38 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1959/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


II. MADRAS ‘B* RANGE 

1. Madras City Circle I. 

2. M adras City Circle III. 

3. Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle adras. 

4. Cuddalnore. 

5. Special Survey Circle, No. 1., Madras (excluding 
jurisdiction assigned to other Appellate Assistant 
Commissioners). 

III. MADRAS ‘C* RANGE 

. 1. Madras City Circle II. 

2. Madras City Circle IV. 

3. Madras Salaries Circle. 

4. Central Circle, I, Madras. 

5. Central Circle II, Madras. 

6. Tanjore Circle. 

7. Nagapattinam Circle. 

8. Special Survey Circle No, 1, Madras (in respect of 
persona who have their principal place of business In or 
reside tn the Tanjore District). 

IV. TIRUCHIRAPPALI RANGE i. Tiruchirapalli Circle. 

2. Karaikudi Circle. 

3. Pudukottai Circle. 

V. MADHURAI RANGE 

. 1. Madhural Circle. 

2. Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Madhura . 

3. Dtndigul Circle. 

4. Virudhunapr Circle. 

5. Tinmelvelf Circle. 

6. Tuticorin Circle. 

7. Nagercoil Circle. 

VI. SALEM RANGE 

. 1, Salem Circle. 

(c) for the sub-head “XI — Mysore & Kerala” and the entries thereunder, 
the following sub-head and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 


“XI — Mysore” 

•A* RANGE, BANGALORE 

. 1. Urban Circle except in respect of the persons and 

incomes assessed by the 111 , IV, V, VI and VII Addl. 

Income-tax Officers. 

2. E. D.-cum-I- T, Circle, Bangalo re. 

3. Mysore Circle. 

4. Davangere Circle. 

5. Coorg Circle. 

6. Tumkur Circle. 

7. Special Survey Circle, Bangalore (In respect of persons 
who have their principal place of business In or 
reside within the jurisdiction of the I. T Circles 
mentioned above). 

'B’ RANGE, BANGALORE 

. 1. Urban Circle, in respect of persons and Income* 

assessed by III, IV, V, VI and VII Addl. Income-tax 
Officers. 

2. Rural Circle, Bangalore. 

3. Salary Circle, Bangalore. 

• 4. Special Circle, Bangalore. 

5. Shlmoga Circle. 

6. Hassan Circle. 

7. Bellary Circle. 

8. Kolar Circle. 

9. Special Survey Circle, Bangalore (In respect of 
persons who have their principal place of business in or 
reside within the jurisdiction of the I. T. Circles 
mentioned above). 




Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JA A . , 4, 


/r- - . . 14, 


DHARWAR . . . i. AH Income-tax Wards of Dharwar district and North 

Kanara having Headquarters at Dharwar. 

2 . All Income-tax Wards, of Belgaum District having 
headquarter* at Belgaum. 

3 . All Income-tax Wards of Bijapur having Headquarters 
at Biiapur. 

4 . Ralchur Circle. 

5 . Gulbarga Circle. 

2 . This notification shall take effect on and from the lat day of January, 
1958. 1 I I 

, Explanatory Note 

Nora. — 'Die amendments have become necessary due to the reorganisation 
of the appellate jurisdiction of the Appellate Assistant Commissioners in the 
charge of the Commissioners of Income-tax, Kerala, Madras and Mysore. 

(Urn above note does not form a part of the notification but is Intended to 
be merely clariflcatory.) I 

| [No. 126 (F. No. 53/112/87-IT) .] 


CORRIGENDUM 
, Income-tax 

New Delhi , the 27 th December 1957 

B.K.O. 44. — In the notification of the Central Board of Revenue S.R.O. 8394, 
published in Part n, Section 3 of the Gazette of India dated 26th October 1987 
for the words "These amendments shall come Into force from the 1st day of 
November,. 1857" read "These amendments shall come into force from 2 nd day of 
December 1957”. 


[No. 130 (F, No. 50/ 107/ 57-IT)-] 
B. V. MUNDKUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 23rd December 1957 

8 .R.O. 45. — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
in partial modification of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Industry and Supply No. S-R.O. 460, dated the 24th August, 1960 and 
the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of Home Affairs No. 
S.R.O. 2536 dated the 1st November, 1956, the President hereby directs that the 
Administrators of all the Union territories shall, subject to the control of the 
President, exercise the powers end discharge the functions of the Central Govern- 
ment under the provisions of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 6 and clause (c) of 
section 12 of the Cotton Ginning and Pressing Factories Act, 1925 (12 of 1925), 
In the Union territories under their respective administration. 

[No. F.24(27)-TEX(A)/67.] 

S.R.O. 46.— -In pursuance of clause (1) of article 268 of the Constitution and 
In supersession of the notification of the Government of India No. 50-C(2)/38 
dated the 31st March, 1938 and in partial modification of the notification of the 
Government of India In the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S.R.O. 89 dated the 8 th 
January, 1967, the President hereby entrusts to the State Governments with their 
consent and functions of Central Government under the provisions of sub-section 
(1) of section 6 and clause (c) of section 12 of the Cotton Ginning and Pressing 
Factories Act, 1925 (12 of 1926). 

[No. F.24(27)-TEX(A)/67.j 
New Delhi, the 28th December 1957 

S.R.O. 47-— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential Commodities 
Act, 1935 (10 of 1935), the Central Government hereby makes the following fur ther amendment 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


40 


in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. 
S.R.O, 1150 dated the 30th May, 1955, namely — 

In the said Notification, 

I, In Form CST-A. 

( a ) In Part II, the words at the end “Certified that the above particulars have been 
checked with the records of the mill and that they are, in so far as I can ascertain, 
accurate and complete” “Signature of Manager or Managing Agent” “Date” and 
“Place” shall be omitted, 

(i>) after Part II, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Pakt III 

Machines in Hosiery Industry, 


(1) Winding Machines 

(a) Bottle Bobbin winders 

(b) Cone winders 

(c) Any other (Type to be indicated separately for each) 

(2) Automatic sock knitting machines 

(a) Plain 

(b) Ribbed 

(e) Design (Details may be indicated separately against each) 

Note: — (Against each of above the diameter of cylinder and the number of needle may please 
be indicated). 

(3J Linking machines: (No. of needles per inch may please be indicated), 

(4) Inter lock knitting machines. 

(5) Sinker Body Machines. 

Note: — [Against ( 4 ) & (5) please indicate the diameter of machines] 

(6) Stitching Machines 

(a) Over Lock 

(b) Chain Lock 

(c) Flat Lock 

(a) Others (Type may be indicated for each) 

(7) Muffer making machines. 

(8) Jacquard Knitting Machines. 

(9; Any other machines with their full names and imported specification. 

Processing Machines 

(1) Dyeing Machines 

(2) Hyderooxtractore 

(3) Boarding Machines (Pressing Machines) 

(4) Bleaching Equipment (Names and number of machines to be indicated). 

(5) Printing equipment (Details of Machines and their number to be indicated). 

(6) Packing & Labelling Machines. 

(7) Any other (with their names and number and important specification against each). 

Certified that the above particulars have been checked with the records of the mill and that 
they are, in so far as I can ascertain accurate and complete. 

Date: Signature of the Manager or Managing 

Place: Agent.” 

2. In Form CST-F-STAPLE, after item 6, the following shall he inserted, namely:— 

‘‘7, Consumption of staple fibre during the month I. Indian 

in lbs, 

2, Foreign 

Totallbs. 

8. Stock of staple Fibre at the end of the month . 1, Indian 

in lbs. 

2, Foreign 

Total lbs ** 

[No. 8 (j)-TEX(A)/ 5 7-2 
V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 



4i 


Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY I. 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 24 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 48. — In the late Ministry of Heavy Industries Order S.R.O, 911, 
dated the 14th March, 1957, published in the Gazette of India Part II- — Section 
3 dated the 23rd March 1957: — 

For “Shri Shiv Chandika, President, Fertiliser Factory Works’ Union 
L-l, Sahapura, P.O. Manbhum” 

Read “Shri Shiv Chandika, 14, K, Road, Jamshedpur, Singhbhum, 
BIHAR.”' 

[No. 5(5)-IA(II)(G)/57.] 
P, V. B. MENON, Under Secy. 


Merchandise Marks 
New Delhi, the 30 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 49. — The following draft of a further amendment to the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries 
No. S.R.O. 2290, dated the 6th October, 1956, which it is proposed to make in 
,exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12A of the Indian 
Merchandise Marks Act, 1889 (4 of 1889), is published as required by sub-section 
(4) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby, and notice ip hereby given that the draft will b e taken into consideration 
on or after the 15th February, 1958. Any objection or suggestion which may 
be received from any person with respect to the said draft before the date so 
specified will be considered by the Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 

In the Schedule to the said notification, after item 33, the following items shall 
be added, namely: — 

"34. All Sports Goods On the goods themselves. 

35. Cycles and Cycle parts On the goods themselves,” 

[No. 3(5)-TMP/5G.J 


Indian Standards Institution 

Delhi, the 16 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 50.— In pursuance of sub-regulations (z) and (A) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed have been established during the period 1st to 15th December 1957. 

Tin; Schedule 


No. and title 
of the 

Indian Standard 

SI, No. and title of the Indian Standard or Brief Particulars 

No. established standards, if 

any, 

superseded 
by the new 
Indian Standard 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


1 15:616-1957 Code of Safety Require- 

ments for Mains- 
Operatcd Radio 
Receivers 


This code lays down derailed 
requirements for safety from 
electric shocks and fire risks- 
as well as for the robustness 
of construction of mains- 
operated radio-re ceivers in- 
tended for domestic or similar 
use. (Price Rs. 2-00). 




42 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Paht II 


(i) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


4 IS 1710-1957 Specification for Marine 
’ Plywood. 


This standard lays down the 
requirements for marine ply- 
wood specifying the timber 
species to be used and the 
other requirements to be follow- 
ed in the manufacture. 

(Price Rs, 2'00). 


3 IS;8i 6-I9J7 Code of Practice for 
Use of Metal Arc 
Welding for General 
Construction in 
Mild Steel. 


4 IS:850-i957 Specification for Natu- 

ral Sour (Lactic) case- 
in for Glue Manufac- 
ture. 

5 IS 1989-1956 Specification for Scissors 


6 IS:990-i957 Specification for Spoons, 
Stainless Steel. 


7 IS:99i-X9i7 Specification for Spoons, 
Brass and Nickel Silver. 


8 IS:ioo6-i957 Specification for Arrow- 
root Starch. 


9 IS 11035-1957 Methods of Sampling 
and Test for Bleaching 
Earths used 

for Decolorizing Ve- 
getable Oils. 


10 IS:io5t-i957 Specification for Pyre- 
thrum Extracts. 


11 IS:lo6o(Part Methods of Sampling 
TV 1956, and Test for Paper 

and Allied Products, 
Part I. 


This standard lays down a cod* 
of good practice for the use of 
metal arc welding in general 
construction in mild steel, 
with an eye on safety as well 
as on economy. ' 

(Price Rs. 2-oo). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements for natural sour 
(lactic) case in used in the’ 
manufacture of casein glue. 

((Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribes the 
dimensional and material 
requirements and the methods 
of test for 1; different classes 
of scissors. (Price Rs. a- 00). 

This standard coves the di- 
mensional and material 
requirements for ten commonly 
used types of stainless steel 
spoons. (Price Rs. 1 ■ 50). 

This standard covers the 
dimensional and material 
requirements for ten commonly 
used types of brass and 
nickel silver spoons. 

(Price Rs. 1 -jo). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the me- 
thods of test for arrowroot 
Btarch, popularly known as 
'arrowroot. (Price Rs. I'jo). 

This standard prescribes the 
methods of sampling and test 
procedures for determining 
moisture, bulk density, 
screen analysis, acidity or 
alkalinity, decolorizing power, 
durability an doil retention. 

(Price Rs. i-jo) 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements and the me- 
thods of test for pyrethrum 
extracts used in the control of 
insect pest* of medical, agri- 
cultural and veterinary im- 
portance. (Price R’. 2 ■ 50) 

This standard prescribes the. 
methods of sampling and 
test procedures for deter- 
mining physical, mechanical 
and chemical characteristics 
for paper and allied products. 

(Price Rs. 2-50-) 


/ 


Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14. 1819 43 


( 1 ) CO (3) (41 


12 IS: 1077-1937 Specification for Com- 
mon Burnt Clay Buil- 
ding Bricks. 


13 IS: 1089-1957 Specification for Oleum 
(20 Percent), Technical. 


14 IS:iIIO-l9J7 Specification for Ferro 
Silicon. 


15 IS-nn-1957 Specification for Spie- 
geleisen. 


16 IS:iII5-l957 Specification for Oil 
Cutting, Soluble. 


This standard lays down the 
requirements for dimensions, 
quality and strength of com- 
mon burnt clay bricks used in 
building work. 

(Price Rs. 1-50). 

This standard prescribes the 
requirements • and the me- 
thods of test for oleum of 
technical grade, commercially 
known as fuming sulphuric 
acid. (Price Rs. i-jo). 

This standard covers the re- 
quirements for five gradse* of 
ferro silicon. 

(Price Re. 100). 

This standard covers the re- 
quirements for two grades of 
spiegeleisen. 

(Price Re. t-oo) 
This standard prescribes the. 
requirements of soluble, cutt- 
ing oil intended for use in 
machines where the u»e of a 
suitable cutting oil giving as 
non-transparent aqueous 
emulsion is permissible as 
coolant and lubricant for cutt- 
ing tools. (Price Rs. i- 50). 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution, 
19, University Road, Delhi-8, and also at Its Branch Offices at (t) 40/40A Cawasfi Patel Street 
Fort, Bombay-i, (if) P-n, Mission Row Extension, Calcutta-r and (lit) 23, Nungambakkam 
High Road, Madras-6. 

D.V. Karmabkar 
Deputy Director (Marks). 


(No. MDC/ii(4).J 

S.R.O- ji .—In the exercise of the powers conferred by sub-regulation, (2) and (3) of regulation 
3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, I9J5, the Indian Stan- 
dards Institution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips, psrticulars of which are given in column 
(4) of the Schedule hereto annexed, in respect of the Indian Standards specified in column (2) of 
the said Schedule. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. and title of Indian Standard 

No. and date 
of Gazette 
Notification 
in which 

Particulars of Errata Slips 

No. 


establishment 

issued 

(1) 

(2) 

of Indian 
Standard 
was notified 
(3) 

(4) 


x 15:1056-1957 Specification for Comm- S.R.O. 2909 The figure ‘16’ has been placed 
crcial Metric Weights, dated 14th under D against the seventh 
September item in Table VI on page 8. 
1957- 


Copies of this errata slip are available, free of charge, with the Indian Standards Institution ’ 
19, University Road, Dclhi-8, and also at its Branch Offices at (*") 40/40A Cawasji Patel Street 
Fort, Bombay-i, (if) P-11 Mission Row Extension, Calcutta-I, and (w) 23 Nungambakkam High 
Road, Madras-6. 

D. V. Karmarkar, 
Deputy Director (Mark*). 
[No. MDC/n(io)] 






44 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Past II 


Delhi, the 18 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 52 , — In pursuance of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards 
Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that a licence particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been 
granted authorising the licensee to use the Standard Mark. 

The Schedule 


Si. Licence No. 
No. and Date 


Period of 

Validity Name and Add- Article covered 

ress of the by the licence 

Licensee 

From To 


Relevant Indian 
Standard 


1 CM/L-41 16 Dec. 15 Dec- Messrs Carew & Rectified Spirit IS:3a3-i9J2 

10 Dec. 1957. 1957 I9j8 Co. Ltd. Asan- Grade A and Specification for 

sol. Grade B. Rectified Spirit. 


D.V. Karmarkar, 
Deputy Director (Marks). 


[No. MDC 12/(169)]. 

T. S. KUNCHITHAPATHAM, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES AND FUEL 
(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 26th December 1957 

S.R.O. S3.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
& Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (53 of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Mineral 
Concession Rules, 1949, namely: — 

In sub-ruie (1) of rule 22 of the said rules — 

(1) in the second sentence, the words “at the end of this period” shall be 

omitted; 

(2) the following sentence shall be added at the end, namely: — 

“An application for renewal of a prospecting licence shall be made at 
least two months before the expiry of the licence.” 

[No. MII-162(54)/57.] 

B. N. RAMAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Iron & Steel) 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1957 

S.R.O. 54/Ess. Comm/Iron and Steel-2 (c)/ Am (9). —In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-clause (c) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India in the- 





Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1B79 


45 


Ministry of Steel, Mines and Fuel, No. S.R.O. 2041 /ESS. COMM-IRON AND 
STEEL-2(c), dated the 11th June, 1957, as amended from time to time, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, in columns 2 and 3 thereof, 
against ‘WEST BENGAL’ for the entries — 

2 3 


4 and 5. 
4 and 5' 


West Bengal. 

the following entries shall be substituted, namely:— 
2 


“5. Agricultural Engineer and Joint 
Director of Agriculture (Engineering) 
(Ex-Officio), West Bengal. 

6, Sub-Divisional Agricultural officers 
appointed by the Government of 
West Bengal. 


G. V. RAMAKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


4, 5, 12(2), 18 & 20. 

4, 5, t 8 and 20. 

[No, SC(A)-4(328).J 


“5. Agricultural Engineer, Government 
of West Bengal, Calcutta. 

6. Sub-Divisional Agricultui al officers 
appointed by the Government of 


(Department of Mines & Fuel) 

ERRATUM 

In the Ministry Of Steel, Mines and Fuel (Department of _ Mines and Fuel) 
Corrigendum published under S.R.O. 3947 in the Gazette of India Part II— Sec. 3, 
dated the 14th December 1957 at page 2836, for “Shri B. R. Tolley” read “Shrl 
B. R. Tooley.’" 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Food) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 55. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Tripura Food grains (Movement) Control 
Order, 1956, namely: — 

Amendment 

In item (i) of the proviso to clause 3 of the said Order, for the words 
“ten seers” the words “five seers” shall be substituted. 

[No. 204 ( 3 ) /56-PY.II. ] 

S. N. BHALLA, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 27 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 56. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Ghee 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1938, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural 
Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (I of 1937), is published as required 
by the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


46 


and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
on or after the 25th January, 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 1 


Draft Amendments 


In the said rules: — ! 

(1) In Schedule III-A, in column 3, against serial No. 6 for the words 

and figures "Not more than 2-5” the words and figures "Not more 
than 3-0”, shall be substituted. 

(2) In Schedule III-B, in column 3, in both sub-columns against serial 

No. 0 for the words and figures “Not more than 2:5” the words and ■ 
figures "Not more than 3 - 0’’ shall be substituted, 

[No. F. 3-28/67-AM.] 

| V. S. NIGAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Agriculture) 

(Indian Council of Agricultural Research) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi- 2, the 28 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 57. — For the name "Shri Surja Mai" appearing in this Ministry notifica- 
tion of even number, dated the 2nd August, 1957, please read “Shri Surja Ram". 

[No. 1-42/56-Com.IL] 

R. D. THAWANI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi-2, the 28 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 58. — Dr. Lekh Raj Bhalla, B.D.S. (Punjab), Punjab Government Dental 
College, Amritsar, has been elected as a member of the Dental Council of India 
from the State of Punjab under clause (a) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 
(10 of 1948), with effect from the 6th November, 1957. 


TNo. F. 6-6/57-MI.] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Deptts. of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

New Delhi, the 24 th December 1957 

S.R.O- 59. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 100 of the Indian 
Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central Government hereby exempts for a further 
period up to 30-6-1958, all persons in-charge of aircraft engaged in international 
navigation from the operation of clause (V) of sub-rule (2) of rule 7 of the said 
Rules, in so far as It requires such persons to carry in the said aircraft, the 
aircraft and engine log books, subject to the condition that the working copies 
of the aforesaid documents are carried in the said aircraft. 

[No. AR/1937(36).J 
[F. No.lO-A/59-57.] 

D. R. KOHLI, Under Secy 



Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4. 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


47 


MINISTRY OF WORKS HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi , the 28 th December 1957 

SRO. 60.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Indian 
Boilers Act 1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Government hereby cancels the notifica- 
tion of the ’Government of India in the late Department of Industries and Labour 
No. G(B)-10, dated the 21st June, 1924, excluding the Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands from the operation of all the provisions of the said Act. 

TN6. BL-25(5)/67.1 

M. N. KALE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1957 

S.R.O. 61. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M. N. Mathur, as Settlement Officer 
for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or under 
the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his office, in the office 
of the Chief Settlement Commissioner. 

The Central Government also appoints the said Officer as Additional Settle- 
ment Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the same date. 

[No. 13(32)Admn(Int)/67.J 
I.N. CHIB, 

Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner 
(Ex-Officio Deputy Secy.) 


Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th December 1957 

3-R.O. 62. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964, (44 of 
1954), I, ShiiL. J. Johnson, I.C.S., Chief Settlement Commissioner, hereby delegate 
to Shrl S. R. Maini, I.A.S., Settlement Commissioner, Punjab the powers conferred 
upon me under section 23, 24 and 28 of the said Act for the purpose of passing 
necessary orders under these sections in so far as they relate to the custody, 
management and disposal of property (including agricultural land) in the State 
of Punjab in a rural area as defined in clause (f ) of rule 2 of the Displaced Persons 
(Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, which forms part of the Compensa- 
tion Pool. \ 

[No. 9 ( 10) Comp-II/57. ) 

L. J. JOHNSON, 
Chief Settlement Commissioner. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 24th December 1957 

S.R.O. 63. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Labour No. S.R.O. 2088, dated the 21st June, 1954, namely: — 

In the said notification for the words and figures, ‘committees, advisory com- 
mittees and advisory sub-committees appointed under section 5 anfi 6’, the follow- 
ing shall be substituted, namely: — 

"committees and sub-committees appointed under section 5.”. 

[No. LWI-I-6(18)(i)/57.] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


48 


S.R.O. 64. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Minimum 
Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates Shrl 
R. S. Barve, Deputy Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board to be a member 
of the Advisory Board constituted under section 7 of the said Act by the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India, Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 2088, dated 
the 21st June, 19.14, in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri D. N. Chopra 
and makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading “Representatives of employers”, for 
entry ”5. Shri D. N. Chopra, Joint. Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board, 
New Delhi,” the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

"5. Shri R, S. Barve, Deputy Director, Civil Engineering, Railway Board, 
New Delhi, 1 **H| 

[No. LWI-I-6(18)(ii)/57.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 28 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 65 .—In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment S.R.O. No, 2563, dated the 31st July, 1957, published in 
The Gazette of India at page 1696. Part II — Section 3, dated the 10th August 1957, 
for “University of Burham”, read “University of Durham”. 

[No. LWl-II-63 (9) /50.] 

P. N. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 24th December 1957 

S.R.O. 66. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Madras 
Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957, the same 
having been previously published as required by the said sub-section, namely:— 

Amendment 

In the said Scheme, in the proviso to sub-clause (2) of clause 8 after the 
word “employer” the following words shall be inserted, namely: — 

“other than an employer of chipping and painting workers”, 

[No. Fac. 186(1)57,1 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27th December 1957 

S.R.O. 67. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between M/s Bikaner 
Gypsum Ltd. Jamsar and their workmen. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL: DELHI. 

Present: 1 

Shri E. Krishna Murtl, Industrial' Tribunal. 

New Delhi , the 23 rd November 1967 
I. D. No. 171 of 1967. 

Between 

M/s. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd. 


Its workmen. 


AND 



49 


fee. S] THE (.A/E I It 1 . Ob INDIA: JANUARY 4. 1958/PAUSA 14. 1879 


AWARD 

By G.O. No. S.R..O. dated the 11th August, 1956 and the 20th July, 1957, the 
Industrial dispute between Messrs Bikaner Gypsum Ltd., and its workmen, was 
referred to this Tribunal for adjudication under Section 7 read with Section 10 
•of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2. The terms of reference are as follows:— 

(1) Should disparity in wages between men and women workers be 

removed? 

(2) Was the strike undertaken on the 25th June, 1956, legal and justified? 

If so, was the management justified in breaking the continuity of 
service of the workmen? If not, are the workers entitled to strike 
pay and other relief, and, if so, what? 

<3) Do the wages prevalent in quarries and workshops of Messrs Bikaner 
Gypsum Ltd. need any revision? If so, what should be the lates? 

(4) Should piece rates be revised and linked with weight or volume of 

gypsum, and, if so. what should be the rates? 

(5) (a) Are the departmental workers estopped from raising the question 

of bonus for the year 1951-52, 1952-52 and 1953-54? If not, are they 
entitled to any bonus and at what rates? 

(b) Are the contractors’ labour entitled to claim any bonus from the 
management of Blkanor Gypsum Ltd. for the years 1951-52, 1952-53, 
1953-54? And, if so, at what rate, and subject to what conditions? 

<6) Is the termination of employment of workmen by th e management 
during the period from the 5th June, 1950, to the date of cessation 
of strike justified? If not, to what relief such workmen are entitled? 

3. The allegations on behalf of the workmen are, that after coming into force 
ef the Constitution of India there can be no difference of wages on account of 
reasons of sex. that wages should be revised as mentioned in the statement of 
demands, that the strike in question was legal and justified, that a strike notice 
was given on 5th June, 1950, but no heed was paid to it, that the workers were 
•obliged to strike only in the last resort after all remedies had been exhausted, 
that it was due to the high handed action of the company towards the workmen, 
that the workmen were obliged to strike, that they are entitled to strike pay and 
relief of continuity of service without any break, that the termination of employ- 
ment of workmen by the management during the period from 5th June, 1950, to 
the date of cessation of strike is not justified, that the workmen are entitled to 
bonus as claimed, that there can be no distinction between the departmental 
workers and contractors' labour, that the workmen are not satisfied with the 
way in which the measurement is made, and that the value of gypsum should 
~be paid in accordance with weight. 

4. The contention on behalf of the management is, that the disparity in wages 
■between man and woman is justified and cannot be removed, that the strike in 
question is Illegal and is also unjustified, that the workmen are not entitled to 
strike wages, or to continuity of service, that the workmen are guilty of violence 
and subversive activities during the strike period, that as a result of the strike 
various other concerns were put to loss and Inconvenience, that the wages are 
fair and do not need any revision, that the company is already paying their 
workers more than the minimum wages as fixed by the State Government, that 
the company has been increasing the amenities provided to the workmen, that 
any further increase above the existing wage rates would not be within the 
•financial resources of the company, that the company has not made huge profits, 
as alleged, that the increase of wages would place a heavy burden on the com- 
pany and matv have unfortunate repercussions, like retrenchment etc., that the 
present wage structure should not be interfered with, that the piece rates are 
linked with the volume of gypsum, that no change can be made in the present 
existing system, which is convenient for the workmen also, that payment by 
volumetric measure is the general practice in mines all over the country, that 
the rate may be fixed at Rs, 1-4-0 for 45 CF„ which is the rate which the cori- 
fractors are paying to their labourers, that the demand for bonus for the years 
.1951-52. 1952-53. 1953-54 and 1954-55 was put-forward by the Union in the strike 
notice dated 2nd January, 19.56, that this was settled by memorandum of settle- 
ment dated 25th January, 1950, that the management agreed to give to depart- 
mental labour for the financial year 1954-55 a month's bonus, that this was paid 



50 


THi. GA/.F.'I I 1* Ol' INDIA: JA\l ARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Pmu II 

to the departmental workers, that the demand for the years now in question is 
belated, that the workers are estopped frpm raising their demand by virtue of 
the above settlement, that even on merits, they are not entitled to any bonus, that 
the contractors’ labourers are employees of the contractors and are not workmen 
of the management, that the termination of employment of certain workmen is 
justified and according to law, and that the workmen are not entitled to the relief 
claimed. 

5. Both parties stated before me that the issues are as in the terms of reference 
and both parties went to trial on the said basis. 

Issues No. 1 & 3. 

6. This dispute is between Messrs. Bikaner Gypsum Ltd. (hereinafter to be 
referred as company), and its workmen. The workmen are represented by the 
Gypsum Mines Workers’ Union, of which Shri Murli Dh&r Vyas. examined as 
WW18, an M.L.A. of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, is the Secretary from 19.14. 
The Union was formed in 1954, Ext. W/10 i s the letter sent to the management 
about the Unioik, Exts. W/56, 57 and 90 relate to the registration of the Union. 

7. The Bikaner Gypsum Ltd. Is a public Limited Company and Ext, M/1 con- 
tains the Memorandum & Articles or Association. It was registered in 1947. 
Forty per cent, of the shares in the said company are held by the Rajasthan 
Government, which also nominates 3 Directors of the company. 

8. The Managing Agents are the Natural Science India Private Ltd. and 
Ext, M/2 is a copy of the managing agency agreement. Shri Atal Chand Datta 
(MW17) is a Director of Bikaner Gypsum Ltd., as well as the Managing Director 
ol the Managing Agents, Natural Science India Private Ltd., Canning Street, 
Calcutta. 

9. Two mines are being worked by the company, one at Jamsar and the other 
at Lunkaransar. They are separated by a distance of 30 miles. Jamsar is about 
20 miles from Bikaner. The better worked mine is the Jamsar mine and the 
yield of the other mine is said to be small. 

10. According to the evidence of MW1, Shri Raj Pal, the Mine Superintendent 
and Resident Manager of the company, various methods are adopted for raising 
and lifting gypsum. In Quarries No. 8, 9 and 11 the workers called village piece 
workers dig up gypsum and store it. Each village piece worker stores it on his 
own account. The gypsum is separated into superior and inferior quality accord- 
ing to purity, and it is transported. The village piece worker collect the gypsum 
separately till a wagon load Is collected, A wagon load varies from 10 to 18 tons 
and after a wagon is loaded it goes to the railway weigh bridge and the workmen 
are paid according to the load so determined. 

11. The procedure in regard to removal of overburden at places where village 
piece workers raise gypsum is this. They select places where the overburden Is 
slight and they do It themselves and are not separately paid for it. The rate for 
overburden is included in the ad hoc rate of Rs. 2-12-0 per ton for despatch to 
Slndrl Fertilisers. Shri Raj Pal says, that the Inspector of Mines issued a circular 
requiring the mln e owners to pay separately for the removal of overburden in 
the interests of safety of the workmen, and that the management had under con- 
sideration a proposal to make Separate payment for removal of such over-burden. 

12. There are other mazdoors, but they do not ordinarily do the work of 
raising and lifting gypsum. Raising and lifting is performed by manual labour, 
i.e. mostly by mazdoors working under contractors. The contractor is paid at 
the rate of Rs. 1-6-0 per 45 C.F., whereas the contractor pays Rs. 1-2-0 to his 
mazdoors. The mode of payment depends upon the "volumetric” measure. The 
rate of Rs. 1-6-0 is for soft rock and for hard rock it is Rs, 1-10-0 per C.F. There 
are written agreements entered into with the contractors. 

13. The loading of gypsum into wagons is not part of the contractors’ agree- 
ment, For this purpose, separate loading contractors are employed, and the rate 
of loading is 0-5-0 per ton for manually raised load, An extra 25 per cent is 
paid for night loading, t.e„ between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m. 

14. The removal of over-burden Is also undertaken by contractors, but they 
are separately paid for this. For softer earth the rate is Re. 15-0-0 per 1000 CJT., 

> h»Mer earth it Is Rs. 20 per 1,000 C.F. This measure i* according t» the 



5i 


SU'. 3] 1HE GA/E11E OF 1\L>U: JANUARY 4, 1908, 1’ 4 USA H, 187!) 


volume in situ. Some adjustments are made by applying the conversion factor 
owing to expansion in storage. Also there Is increased rate as the load increases, 
i.e. an extra amount of Re. 1 per 1,000 C.F,, for 100 ft, additional load over and 
above first hundred ft. This increase of rate applies to raising and loading of 
gypsum also. 

15. There is another method of raising gypsum, i.e., by power shovels. Drilling 
and blasting is done by the company. Power Shovels excavate earth and load 
the material Into tubs and dumpers which belong to the company. The contrac- 
tors’ workmen are engaged for pushing away tubs. Shovels belong to the con- 
tractors, and are le^ed to the company for earth and gypsum raising and for 
loading. The departmental labour, is, labour employed by the company is put to 
work in these operations to keep the tracks and roads in proper order, unload 
the dumpers and the tubs and to dress the stocks. 

16. Mechanical raising is done in two shifts. The summer hours are 7 a.m. to 
4 p.m., with one hour interval; 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. is for maintenance. The second 
shift is from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m,, with one hour interval for rest. The manual rais- 
ing is done in one shift from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. in summer and 8 a.m. to 5 P.M. in 
winter with one hour Interval for rest. 

17. At the outset I shall deal with the question of wages. Firstly it is alleged 
In the statement of demands, that in the matter of wages distinction between 
men labour and women labour must be abolished, and that according to the 
Constitution of India no difference can exist in the matter of wages on account 
of difference in sex. Secondly it is stated that the company is making huge 
profits, that all necessary commodities are very dear at Jamsar, that the prices 
are 150 to 200 percent higher than those at Bikaner, and that each worker should 
be paid Rs. 2-8-0 irrespective of sex. 

18. Taking the first contention about the abolition of all distinction between 
male and female labourers, the management have set out a number of reasons 
in the written statement as to why this distinction has continued to exist. Accord- 
ing to the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, a female worker does not work on her own 
account, fane is one of a group composed of her relations. This work is so 
distributed in the group that she is made to do lighter jobs. She cannot dig, 
accompany the camels carry rails or undump tubs. She cannot be expected 
to do heavy jobs. She cannot be engaged on any machine as a helper. She 
cannot be shifted from one job to another independently of the group, to which 
she belongs. She does the work of carrying of earth or loading of ore. His 
further evidence is, that a group consisting of female workers cannot show the 
same output or efficiency as a group wholly consisting of men. In this connection 
Exts. M/3 and M/4 have been relied upon as showing the difference of output 
between men labour and women labour. This shows considerable difference in 
the output and time taken in doing a particular job. 

19. Another point, that is urged in this connection, is, that women Labour 
cannot be employed in the mines after 10 p.m., and they only work between 
6 p.m. and 10 p.m. There is round the clock loading in the mines and this 
diminishes the utility of women labour. There is also a great amount of absentee- 
ism among women. The distinction cannot be removed because women enjoy 
more benefits, like maternity relief etc. There are creches provided for the 
children, and during duty hours mothers often go to the creches to feed their 
babies. It is contended that in view of the various circumstances set out above, 
the disparity between the amount of wages paid to men and women labourers 
cannot be removed. It is further pointed out, that whatever might be the direc- 
tive principle In the Constitution In practice differences must continue to exist. 

26. It is urged by Dr. Parkash that even the Union in its former demands 
about wages made a difference between women labour and men labour, and that 
it is only in the present statement of demands that there is a claim for a uniform 
rate of Rs. 2-8-0 to every mazdoor of the company without distinction of sex. 
This contention receives support from the strike notice, Ext. M/229, wherein the 
demand was made that a male worker should be paid Rs. 2-8-0 and a woman 
worker Rs. 2. 

21. Nextly reference is made to Ext, M/ 80 which is a notification issued by 
the Government of Rajasthan under the Minimum Wages Act dated 29th March, 
19.V 7 . This draws a distinction between male and female labour and a lesser rate 
is fixed for women. For employment of road construction or any building 
•perations, the wages of a male are fixed at Rs. 30 per mensem or Rs. t-2-f) per 



52 1 HE GAZET1E OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, J879 [Pari U 

day for 26 days m a month. For employment in stone breaking or stone crushing 
tor a female the wages are Rs. 20 per month or 0-12-0 per day for 26 days in a 
month, 

22. Reference has been made to a number of decisions in this connection. It 
is sufficient to refer to Phalton Sugar Works Ltd. and their workmen (1954 LAC 
513). At page 523 there is a reference to the argument that the scale of wages 
for females should be lower. Attention is drawn to clause (d) of Article 39 of 
the Constitution providing that the State should direct its policy towards securing 
equal pay for equal work for both men and women. Clause (a) of the same 
Article provides that the citizens, men and women, equally have the right to an 
adequate means of livelihood; Article 15 states that the State shall not discriminate 
against any citizen inter alia on the ground of sex. It was held in the above 
decision, that even though the women workers might have been exploited in the 
past, this exploitation cannot be allowed to continue any longer, and that no 
distinction should be made between male and female workers In th e matter of 
basic wages. This decision is, however, distinguishable on the facts of the present 
case. Therein it is observed at page 523 that there was no evidence that the 
women workers did less work than men or put in less hours of work. On the 
facts of the present case there is the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, that women workers 
are less efficient and their output is low, that they also do lighter jobs, and that ' 
they are incapable of dong as much work as the male workers. In the above 
circumstances, that decision is not applicable. More important stilj in spite of 
the fact of the existence in the Constitution of the directive principle it is a 
matter of significance that the Union itself made a distinction in the matter of 
wages for women labour and men labour. In these circumstances, I hold that 
the disparity in wages between women labour and men labour cannot altogether 
be removed on the facts of the present case. 

23. The second question is about the rate at which wages should be given. 
Ext, M/5 shows the rates and scales. According to the case of the management, 
there has been increase in wages from time to time. In or about the month of 
June, 1955 the company increased the wage rates of the labourers, i.e., of males 
from Rs. 1-8 0 to Rs. 1-3-0 and of females from 0-14-0 to Re, 1. There is also 
provision for payment of Increment at the rate of 0-1-0 every year to such workers. 
Thus the wages go upto Rs. 1-12-0 for male labour, and Rs. 1-4-0 for female 
labour. The company also raised the rate of wages of other workers and fitted 
them into suitable grades. It is argued that no further rise can be given to the 
workmen. , 

24. It is important to note that we are now dealing with the claim for payment 
of minimum wages. The principles of wage fixation have been laid down in a 
number of decisions, for example in the decision in Phalton Sugar Works Ltd. and 
their workmen (1954 LAC 513), referred to above. The same are also found in 
the decision in Raipur Tea Estate (1958 LAC 318). The concept of minimum 
wage is no longer based upon the subsistence theory. The minimum wage now 
includes not only what is sufficient for the bare physical necessities of life, but 
also a modicum of comfort known as conventional necessities, The minimum 
wage must provide for the preservation of the workers efficiency and not merely 
for the bare subsistence of life, and it must take into account provision for some 
measure of education, medical requirements and other amenities. 

25 The contention on behalf of the management is, that certain amenities have 
been provided to the workmen, and that no rise in wages is called for. Ext. M/6 
is filed to show the amenities. Ext M/182 is a reply that has been prepared in 
this connection to the questions given. It is clear from the evidence that a cer- 
tain amount of housing has been provided though some of the units are huts. 
There Is a school for education of children, though the criticism has been levelled 
that it is absolutely inadequate with a single teacher, unable to handle all the 
children. There are medical facilities provided, and there is a dispensary- and a 
doctor is in attendance. It is clear from the evidence of WW5, Mst. Kesar, that the 
doctor attends on the labourers and that she got medicine. It is also proved on the 
evidence, that electric lights have been provided, though not all quarters for the 
workmen have been lighted up. Some of the witnesses have stated that they are 
still depending on lights burning kerosene oil. Ext. M/233 is produced to show 
that Provident Fund benefit exists and is extended to the. employees. 

26, The plea put-forward on behalf of the company is, that there can be no 
increase in the present existing level of wages, and that it is not possible to do so 
without repercussions on the financial position of the ■ company. The evidence 



Sfc. 3] THE GAZE 1 1 E OF INDIA. J WEARY 1, 1958/PAUSA ]4, 1879 53 


of Shri V. B. Chaterjee, a Chartered Accountant of Calcutta, has been relied upon. 
According to his evidence, considering the finances of the. company, the increase 
of wages to Rs. 2-8-0, as demanded by the Union, cannot be acceeded to. The extra 
payment will involve Rs. 1,09,000 as additional payment per year. The cost of pro- 
duction is going up from year to year on account of various reasons. There is 
increase in the cost of removal of over-burden, explosives, water supply, trans- 
port, etc. There is also imposition of taxes to be taken into account. Less and 
less is being realised owing to poor quality of gypsum. Sindri Fertilizers are the 
biggest customer of the company. The average supply and selling price to Sindri 
in 1955-56 was 5 74, This was lower than the contract price because of the lower 
purity of the gypsum. The profits are showing a down-ward tendency. There is 
no adequate reserve. Equipment had to be acquired for the company in 1946-47 
at a cost of Rs. 2,91,000. The rate of Royalty has been raised. The minimum 
royalty to be paid to the Rajasthan Government is Re. 1 Per ton. The amount 
of Rs. 1,51,417 has been claimed by the Bihar Government as sales-tax due on 
account of supplies to Sindri. Ext. M/ 150 is a copy of the Government of India 
Notification showing the royalty to be paid and dated 19th March 1957, For a 
supply of 4 lakhs tons to Sindri the additional cost of production will be Rs, 
1,00,000/-. The nature of business is hazardous, and all depends upon the purity 
of the gypsum and the tonnage raised. Ext. M/155 has been relied upon by the 
management as showing the financial implications If increased wages are given 
to the workers as demanded. In cross-examination Mr. Chaterjee says that he can- 
not say off-hand what ratio the expense on workmen bears to the total expen- 
diture. Exts. M/157-158 show the royalty to be paid. In cross-examination he says, 
that in 1954-55 th e total cost of production was 6 '66. This Increased to 5 96 in 
1955-56 and to 6 05 in 1956-57. He cannot give separate figures for supply of elec- 
tricity, water, etc. as contributing to the increase in the cost of production. There 
was loss of 0T3 Naye Paiso per ton in 1956 on account of loss in purity. According 
to Shri Datta the cost of production has been increasing from year to year and 
the royalty on gypsum has been increased. The royalty that was being paid 
previously was -/8/- per ton. The excess cannot be passed on to the customers. 
Besides the royalty, which is paid to the Rajasthan Government at Re. 1 per ton 
on gypsurp and Rs. 2/8/- per ton on selenite, the Rajasthan Government gets a 
commission of 21 per cent on the profits, calculated according to the Indian Com- 
panies Act, The cost amounted to Rs. 8-12-0 per ton in the year 1st April 1956 to 
31st March 1957. Their price to Sindri is linked up with purity. Purity below 
87% is penalized. Owing to short fall in purity the average sale value that they 
received from Sindri was about 5,7 N.P. There has been a lot of loss on their 
supply to Sindri, to whom more than 80 per cent of production is given. Last 
year they gave 4.25 lacs tons. So whatever profit the company is making Is due 
to supplies to other industries. It is argued on behalf of the management that, 
if there is increase In the rate of wages, there will have to be an increase in the 
price to be paid by Sindri for the supplies made, and that, therefore,, they can- 
not Increase wages at this stage. 

27. Reference is again made to the evidence of certain withnesses about wages 
prevailing in the locality. On behalf of the management reliance Is placed on 
Ext. M/84 as showing the sanctioned labour rates by the Public Works Depart- 
ment to Mazdoors for Bikaner District. It is pointed out that for an ordinary 
mazdoor the rate is only from 0-12-0 to Re. 1 and for a woman 0-9-0 to 0-12-0. Ext. 
M/81 is a comparative statement of wage rates. The rates range from Rs. 1-8-0 
to Rs. 1-12-0 for males and 0-14-0 to Rs. 1-4-0 for females. Ext. M/85 is a com- 
munication from Sindri Fertilizers dated 7th July, 1955, showing that generally in 
the concern Rs. 1-8-0 was paid to an unskilled labourer, and that an increment of 
0-1-0 per year was given. For skilled labour it is Rs. 2 per day. As regards ameni- 
ties, free housing, free water, free medical aid, and leave with pay as per Mines 
Act are given. Ext. M/86 relates to the wages prevailing in Kavas Mines, but 
there is nothing therein about the wages paid to mazdoors. Ext. M/220 contains 
a copy of the letter received from Associated Cements. For daily rated workers, 
minimum basic wages are according to grades. For persons in E and D Grades 
the wages vary from Re, 1 to Rs. 1-4-0 and Rs. 1-2-0 to Rs. 1-9-0 respectively, 
with annual increments of 0-1-0. For C Grades the rate Is Rs. 1-10-0 to Rs. 2-8-0 
with annual increment of 0-2-0. There are higher wages for B and A Grades. 
In Jaipur Udyog Sawaimadhopur. the minimum basic wages for unskilled labour 
are Rs. 1-12-0 inclusive of all allowances and for monthly rated Rs. 1-14-0 inclu- 
sive of all allowances. For females it is Rs. 1-10-0 and Rs. 1-12-0 respectively, 
jhi Makrana Marble Stone Company, Rajasthan, the wages ar e Rs. 1 to Rs 1-4-0 
The Rajasthan Government’s rates are 30 — 1 — 40 for unskilled workers. It has 
been argued on the strength of the documents mentioned above, that the existing 



54 


TflE GAZE J IE (>!■ IN1MA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 JPari* II 


scale of wanes is quite reasonable, that it compares well with the prevailing rate 
of wage* in similar industries, and that, when wages are to be fixed on an 
industry-cum-region basis, there is no force at all in the demand on behalf of the 
workmen, that the wages should be raised to Rs. 2-8-0 per day irrespective of sex- 

28, On behalf of the workmen Exts. W/55, 57, 58 and 82 have been referred 

to In this connection. Ext. W/82 is the minutes of discussion held on 23rd 
February, 1955 and Mr. A. C. Dutta was of the opinion that there could be no 
compliance with the demand fcr increased wages without action by Government. 
Ext. W/55 shows the scale of wages that came Into force In Bikaner pypsum 
on 1st April, 1956. Ext. W/57A is a communication from the Chief Labour 

Commissioner dated 14th April, 1956 addressed to Shri Vyas and it is stated 

therein that with reference to the demand for Increase of wage rates attention 
was invited to item No. 1 of the memorandum of settlement dated 25th January, 
1956 

29, It is also pleaded on behalf of the workmen, that the prices at Jamsar 

of foodstuffs and other necessities of life are very much higher than at Bikaner, 
even by 150 to 200 percent in certain cases. WW6, Rattan Lai, has been examined 
m support of this theory. He says that he sells articles to mazdoors of Bikaner 
Gypsum. He is a member of the Bikaner Gypsum Mines Workers’ Union. Shri 
Vyaj stays with him whenever he visits Jamsar. Messrs. Rup Ram and Radha 
Krishan were contractors, anrl he was a partner with them in the contracts with 

the company. He had a pecuniary interest in the said contracts. These con- 

tracts came to an end. He asked the company to continue the contracts, but it 
did not do so. Apparently this is a witness, who has some bias against the 
company and his evidence cannot be taken at its face value. According to the 
evidence of Shri Raj Pal there are certain commodities which are a little higher 
In price as compared to Bikaner but certain other articles like eggs, milk, ghee 
are cheaper in Jamsar. MW6, Kastur Chand, runs a food-grains shop at Jamsar. 
According to him prices of essential commodities like sugar, bajra, wheat, oil, 
gur, and other food stufls are almost the same as those in Bikaner, though some 
articles like milk, ghee, and bajra sell cheaper. He produces a comparative state- 
ment, Ext. W/3, as relating to the rates prevailing on 16th June, 1950. He 
denies that he Is in any way connected with contracts in the mines. The evidence 
establishes that the prices at Jamsar are a little higher than In Bikaner, but not 
to the extent to which the Union has suggested. 


30. There are certain agreements between the parties, namely Exts, M/7, 10, 
40 and 41 arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings. In Ext, M/7 
dated 19th May, 1955 item No. 11 relates to the demand for Increase in rate of 
wages to Rs. 2-8-0. The parties agreed to defer this demand for collecting 
necessary data and statistics with regard to profit and loss and other particulars 
of the company. Ext. M/10 Is a further agreement that was arrived at on 25th 
January, 1956. Item No. 1 therein relates to the demand for Increase in wages. 
It was agreed that if any increase was to be given to mazdoors, it would affect 
the rate of supply to Sindri, and that the Government may examine the accounts, 
to settle the question of increase in wages. Exts. M/ 40 and 41 are the two agree- 
ments arrived at on 10th May, 1956 with reference to village piece workers and 
workshop personnel. However uptil now the dispute about wages has not been 
settled. 


31 I have referred to the decisions bearing on the principles of wage fixation. 
Here we are dealing with the question of fixation of minimum wages for the 
workmen. It is stated before me by the management, that of the amount that 
is being paid to the workmen at present, 50 per cent thereof represents basic pay, 
and 50 per cent. Dearness Allowance. The question of capacity to pay or the 
implications on the finances of the concern cannot have any material bearing 
on the question of fixation of minimum wages. It is well recognised that if a 
concern cannot pay the minimum wages, it has no right to exist, vide Metal Box 
Co (1952 LAC 322) and Rajamani Transport (1962 n LLJ 735). The argument, 
that the wages cannot be raised at present without any previous increase in the 
price of gypsum supplied to Sindri, cannot be accepted. That is a matter for the 
company to take up with its customers. Any inconvenience that may be felt in 
this direction can have no material bearing on the question of fixation of 
minimum wages necessary to enable a workman to live at subsistence level. 


■)2 I may refer In this connection to the decision in the matter of fixation of 
wages In coal mines. The Labour Appellate Tribunal fixed the minimum wages 
at not less than Rs. 70 per month and in consequence there was an increase in 
the selling price of coal. 



55 


SkC. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1938/PAUSA 14, 1879 


33. Taking all circumstances into consideration, I am Of opinion, that minimum 

■wages that are now existing are on the low side, and that they must be enhanced. 
It Is in the evidence of Shrl Vyas that even though an amount of Rs. 2-8-0 was 
claimed as minimum wages, the demand was reduced to Rs. 2 per day. There 

is also the fact, that the workers have been provided with a certain amount of 

housing, medical facilities, educational facilities, and electric lighting, even though 
all these are not upto the expectations of the workmen. I am of opinion, that 
for the present on the facts of this case, it is necessary that a male mazdoor 
should be paid at the minimum of Rs. 2 per day, and that a female must be paid 

at least Rs. 1-8-0 per day. There must also be provision for annual increments. 

1 direct that each male mazdoor should be given an annual increment of 0-1-0 
and that the maximum should be fixed at Rs. 2-4-0. The increment will be given 
annually at the rate of 0-1-0 until the amount of Rs. 2-4-0 is reached. Liksewise 
a woman worker shall be paid an annual increment of 0-1-0 till the amount of 
Rs. 1-12-0 is reached. It is also necessary that the workers, who are getting 
less than these amounts should be stepped up to the required level. All the male 
workers, who are now getting Rs. 1-8-0 per day shall receive Rs. 2, and from 
then onwards shall get the above annual increments. Those, who are getting 
Rs. 1-9-0, Rs. 1-10-0 and Rs. 1-11-0 shall get a further increase of 0-8-0, so that 
every workman may have the benefit of increase of wages, now being given, 
i.e., at the rate of Rs. 2-1-0, Rs. 2-2-0, and Rs. 2-3-0 respectively. They will earn 
further increments as stated above. Those who are getting Rs. 1-12-0 will get 
Rs. 2-4-0 and will not be entitled to any more increments. Like- 
wise women mazdoors, who are now getting Rs. 1-4-0 shall get Rs. 1-12-0 and 
there would not be any further Increments. Those who are getting less than 
Us. 1-4-0, i.e. Re, 1, Rs. 1-1-0, Rs. 1-2-0 and Rs. 1-3-0, shall get an additional amount 
of 0-8-0, so that they shall receive Rs. 1-8-0, Rs. 1-9-0, Rs. 1-10-0, and Rs. 1-11-0, 
and they will earn further Increments thereafter at. the rate of 0-1-0 per annum 
till the maximum of Rs. 1-12-0 is reached. 

34. The question next is about the date from which the above Increase should 
be given effect to. N« doubt the demand for increase in wages has been a con- 
stant feature. I am of opinion that the said increase should take place from 
the date when the award becomes enforceable and no retrospective effect can be 
given in the circumstances of this case. If the cost of production goes up, owing 
la the rise in wages, the company may have to negotiate for a rise in the supply 
price with its customers. 

35. It Is however argued on behalf of the company, that there can be no 
question of fixation of wages in these proceedings because according to the 
agreements, Exts. M/7 and 10 the matter was agreed to be settled after exami- 
nation of accounts by the Government, i am not prepared to up-hold this argu- 
ment. The question of wages has been an ever green demand and has led to a 
lot of unrest and it has not been settled so far. Moreover the question of wages 
is cine of the items of reference, There is no forre in the argument that no minimum 
wages can be fixed in this proceeding because of the existence of the agreements 
Exts. M/7 and 10. 

30. I find, that the difference between the wages of men and woman workers 
cannot be removed for the present; and that the minimum wages for male and 
female labour employed by the company should be as above stated, and that the 
same should come Into force from the date when this award becomes enforceable. 

I further find that out of the amounts as fixed above 50 per cent shall be basic 
wage and the rest Dearness Allowance. 

37, The next question, that, has been urged before me on behalf of the work- 
men, is, that whatever increase in wages is granted must apply not only to the 
workmen employed by the company, but also to the labourers engaged by the 
contractors. I have already referred to the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, of the kind 
of work that is done by labourers engaged through contractors. In his evidence 
Shri Vyas has referred to them as commission agents, though the said word has 
not been used in the statement of demands. In the statement of demands it Is 
stated in paragraph 3, that the contractors’ labour is the pivot of the, industry as 
it is they who are responsible for increase of production. Some of the contracts 
entered into by the company with the contractors are Exts. M/57-51. 

38, The contention on behalf of the management is, that the contractors' 
labourers are not the workmen of the management, under the Industrial Disputes 
Ac.t, and that no industrial dispute with iegard to them could fit raised. In this 
connection reference may be made to the decision in Goenka Mills (1953 LAC 591). 
It was held therein, that in view of the definition of “workmen” and “industrial 



56 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4 , 1 958/PA USA 14, 1879 [Part IC 


dispute” in the Industrial Disputes Act, the workmen must be employed by the 
employer, who can be made liable for contravention of any of the matters en- 
umerated in Section 2(k) of the Act, and that the Act excludes from its purview a 
workman employed through a contractor, and contemplates direct recruitment 
ot labour. r fo the same effect is the decision m The Associated Cement Com- 
panies Ltd. and its workmen (1953 LAC 677), wherein it wa s held that contract 
labour was excluded irom the purview of the Act. 

89. Reference may made in this connection to the decision of the Supreme 
Court in Dharangdhara Chemical Works Vs, State of Saurashtra (1957 I,LLJ 
477). Distinction is drawn therein between a “contract for service” and "contract 
of service”. It can be gathered therefrom that the essential conditions of a person 
being a workman within the terms of the diilnition in Section 2(s) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act are, that he should be employed to do the work in that indus- 
try, t.e. an employment of his by the employer; there should be the relation- 
ship between the employer and him as of employer and employee or master and 
servant. Unless a person is thus employed, there can be no question of his being 
a workman within the term. From a perusal of the decision it can be gathered 
that the mdicia of a contract of service, are, the master’s power of selection cf 
tile servant, the payment of wages and otfier remuneration, the master’s right to 
control the method of doing the work, and the master’s right of suspension or dis- 
missal, 

40. An examination of the evidence in this case will reveal, that the above 
tests are not satisfied in the case of labour engaged hy the contractors, and that 
they cannot be deemed to be workmen within the meaning of Section 2(s) of the 
Act. The contracts are to the effect that the contractors should provide tt(e labour 
for carrying on various items of work as mentioned in the contracts. Certain 
rates are fixed for doing the Jobs and payment of wages is to be made by the 
contractors. MW2, is Inder Mohan, one of the contractors since 1951, Ext. M/ll 
is filed as relating to him. He denies that h e is related to Shri Raj Pal, though 
the latter has been obliged to admit that he is a connection of his, being the son 
of the uncle of his brother’s wife. According to the evidence of Inder Mohan he 
engages the mazdoors for doing work assigned to him. He has maintained Muster 
Roll. He paid bonus to his workmen for the last 3 years at the rate of one month’s 
wages. MW5, Champa Lai, is another contractor. The strength of workmen under 
him varies between 100 and 200. He is paid at the rate of Rs. 1-6-0 per 45 C.F, 
He pays Rs. 1-2-0 for the same quantity to a workman. He maintains a Muster 
Roll for the attendance of the workmen. Mukandan Singh, MW16, is another 
contractor, and, according to him, the management pay him the money as per 
contract. About 36 mazdoors work under him. He engages labour himself, and 
his bills are paid fortnightly. The company does not engage men. They do not 
tell him whom he should engage. He maintains an Attendance Register and 
Ext. M/125 Is the Attendance Register, Ext. M/126 is the Wages Register, show- 
ing payments to mazdoors. The Dally Payment Register is Ext. M/127. He pays 
whatever he likes. Supervision work is done by him or his man. He takes 
disciplinary action agianst his men. He controls them. The companly has no 
control over his men, and It does not exercise supervision over his men. The 
Standing Orders do not apply to them. A mazdoor applies to him for any leave that 
he may want. The witness also produces the documents Exts. M/159— • 175 as 
those relating to his contracts. Some cross-examination has been directed to show 
that Exts. M/125, 126 and 127 have been manufactured for the purpose of this 
inquiry. There is however no sufficient reason to disbelieve the truth of the 
documents above referred to, or the evidence of the contractors with reference 
to the manner in which the workmen are dealt with and paid by them. 

41. The evidence of Shri Raj Pal is, that on 5th June, 1956 there were about 

600 or 700 men engaged by the contractors, and there were about 18 contractors. 

There are several types of contract for doing different types of work, namely 

gypsum raising, earth work, and loading. The contracts do not impose any obliga- 
tion on the contractors to pay certain wages to an employee engaged by him, or 
to retain only a part proportion of the payment made by the company. Ordinarily 
the contractor retains about 0-4-0 per workman for his part in the business. The 
company provides accommodation for labourers of the contractors in pursuance 
of the term in the contract, but this is in respect of the loading contracts only. 
The rates are different in the matter of loading contracts. According to the 
evidence of Shri Seshadri, MW15, who is Assistant Manager of the Mines, the 
Contractor engages his workmen and pays them. The company has nothing to de 
with them. The contractor or his representative supervises the labour end the 
•witness gives directions to him for safety of the work. Payments are made to 



Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. JANUARY 1, 1058/PAUSA 14, 1879 


the contractors only and not to the contractor s man. The contractor maintain® 
a Muster Roll of his labourers and he himself takes disciplinary action against 
them, grants leave to his workmen, and they do not approach the management tor 
leave. The Standing Orders dd not apply to contractors’ labour Ext. M/224 ana 
225 have been tiled to show the amount of wagon loading at J-amsar from March, 
1956 to October, 1956, Ext. M/226 is a bill of the contractor Raushah for the 
fortnight ended 20th June, 1956, and it is produced as illustrative of the fact that 
the contractors are paid fortnightly by the company, and that they make disburse- 
ments to the workmen employed by them. 

42. On behalf of the workmen Shri Vyas has attempted to show, that the 
labourers employed by the contractors are really the workmen of the company. 
He has referred to the contractors as commission agents. According to the 
evidence of Shri Vyas, the work done by them is as commission agents. He 
referred to them as contractors in the statement of demands because the company 
referred to them as such. The names of the men employed under the commission 
agents are enrolled in the books of the management. He does not know If this 
is done to satisfy the Mines Act. He has not examined the Mines Act regarding 
the maintenance of registers. He admits that the commission agents get the men, 
but adds that they are employed by the company. These workers ar e paid through 
the commission agents. Some of the commission agents are members of the 
Union. Some other witnesses have been examined in order to prove the conten- 
tion on behalf of the workmen. Nand Singh, WW8, is a Superviser working 
for the last 54 yfrars in the mines. He was given a document, Ext. W/6, and 
it contained the portions Exts. W/6A and B. It is signed by the Manager, Shri 
Ghosh. This witness says that there are about 20 Supervisors. They supervise 
the work of all labourers Including those of contractors. They supervise the work 
of loading, raising and transporting. A great part of the workmen working m 
the quarries are contractors’ labour. The company maintains a register of labour 
engaged by the contractors, but this is only for purposes of attendance. In cross- 
examination he admits that, when the contractors’ labourers’ representative is not 
at the spot, they stop work to prevent accidents. His supervision over contractors' 
labour, is to see, that these labourers do the work rightly and the right tyn e of 
job, and. do not violate the Mines Act in the area of the mines. He admits that 
the contractor is free to engage whosoever he wants. He adds however that the 
Supervisor can turn ■ out the labourers of contractors if they disobey the rules 
and disobey Mines Rules. He is however clear that the company cannot take 
action against the contractors’ labourers directly, and the company will direct the 
contractors’ to take action against them. The discharged person is not permitted 
to enter the mine area- If a contractors’ workman wants leave, he has to go to the 
contractor, and not to the company. This witness supervises the workers of Inder 
Mohan, and the excavation of gypsum and the hours worked by each machine. 

43. Sita Ram, WW9, says, that he i s supervising the departmental labouT and 
contractors’ labour and mates. If the contractors’ men do not work according 
to this instructions, he suspends them, He instructs them as to which over- 
burden and which gypsum should be excavated and removed. He maintains a 
Muster Roll. He further says, that the company punishes the labourers engaged 
by the contractors. When the contractor Champa Hal Kachaya’s men fought 
with him, the company issued instructions to the contractor to discharge the 
fighting men. The Contractors' labourers come and work and go as they please. 
There is no question of leave for them. When he is definitely asked the question 
as to what supervision he exercised over the contractors’ men, he said that he 
checked the attendance, and then he showed them what work was to be done 
and how it was to he done. He ha s admitted that the contractors maintain 
Muster Rolls, and pay advances to the labourers. When there is any quarrel 
with contractor’s labour, this is reported to the contractor’s Munim. He further 
admits that it is his duty to see that there is no violation of the Mines Act, 
because he will he charged if labourers work in a way which Is contrary to the 
Mines Act. If there is vtolation, he sees that the work is stopped. 

44. Hazari, WW14, has been working in the mines for the last 7 years. He 
worked originally for 4 years for Mukandan Singh, Now he is working under 
Labhu Ram contractor. The company’s supervisor supervises his work, ie. the 
Supervisor tells him how the work should be done and what part of the mines 
should be dug, If he does not do his work properly, his conduct is reported to 
the contractor’s Munim and the latter gets him turned out. He is driven out 
after a complaint Is lodged by the Supervisor. The instructions are given by 
Supervisor as to how the over-burden Is to be removed. The contractor pays 
him the wages and also advance. The Parcha or slip t« issued by the Tekedarr 
Munim. Hazari says, that he is removed by the company, but next he adds- 



jS Jilt GAZETTF OF IN1HA JANUARY 4 1958/l*\USA H 1879 [Part II 


that if he does not like one contractor, he goes to another The contractor may 
however stop him because he has incurred expense for rail fare and other ex- 
penses The company writes to the contractor for his removal if there is any 
complaint against him 

46 WW15, Rajo Ram, a contractor of the company from the last 7 years 
He refers to the different kinds of rates prevailing for various jobs done His 
i ommission may amount to about Rs 66 per month All the contractors pay 
their labourers at the same rate He has not seen any contractor paying at a 
higher rate to the labourers In cross examination he says, he can remo\e any 
labourer He himself can be removed by the company Babu He got a letter 
from Jodhpur Labour Inspector, directing him to maintain a Muster Roll He doe* 
■not pay his men if they are absent on leave Ext W/15 is the file of slips 
which he got from the company 

46 Lastly reference may be made to the evidence of WW6 Rattan Lai, who 
was himself a partner with certain contractors, Radha Krishan and Rup Bam He 
admits definitely that the company has nothing to do with the mazdoors engaged 
by the conti actors 

47 From the evidence it is clear, that the labourers engaged by the contractors, 
-who have been referred to as commission agents in the evidence of Shri Vyas, 
are not employees of the company at all, and that they are not governed by 
•the Industrial Disputes Act, and that they are not workmen within the definition 
of Section 2(s) of the Act It is proved beyond doubt, that they are engaged 
and brought into the mines by the contractors, that they are paid by the con- 
tractors at a rate less than what Is paid by the company to the contractors them 
•selves for the particular job, that the company has no control over them that 
they come and go when they please that they are at liberty to leave the 
service of one contractor and serve under another It is the contractor or his 
representative who takes action against them in case of objectionable < onduct 
It is the contractor, to whom they apply for leave, and no wages are paid by 
•the contractor for the period of their absence, if they absent themselves from 
work It is the contractor, who pays them bonus if any bonus is paid at all 
Tn short the company has nothing to do with these mazdoors to use the language 
of WW6 Ralan Lai In these several circumstances, it is idle to maintain, that 
the labourers engaged by the contractors are the company’s employees The 
tests laid down above, as to the indicia of a contract of service are not satisfied 
m this case However much reliance has been placed on the circumstance dis- 
closed in the evidence, that the company’s supervisors supervise the work of the 
contractors’ men and they also instruct them as to how a job is to be done This 
Is easily explainable This is because the company is responsible for the proper 
observance of the provisions of the Mines Ait The Supervisor has to see that 
the contractors’ men do the different types of work allotted to them an a manner, 
which does not infringe the provisions of the Mines Act It is also admitted by 
come of the witnesses of the company, that the Muster Roll of the workmen 
Is kept by the company This is explained on behalf of the company as due to 
the provisions in the Mines Act which require the maintenance of register of 
all men coming Into the mines On the other hand it is admitted on behalf of 
■the workmen, that there were circulars sent by the authorities about mainten- 
ance Of Muster Rolls by contractors Ext M/97 is a circular of the Labour Ins- 
pector to the contractors of Jamsar Mines directing them to maintain register 
of services register of fines, register of deductions for damages or loss, and 
register of advances of wages paid to workers m the prescribed forms Exts 
M/ 160-161 are letters sent by the Labour Inspector to Mukundan Singh about 
maintenance of registers under the Payment of Wages Act Ext M/187 Is a 
letter sent by the Labour Inspector to Champa Lai and Mukandan Singh and 
others, Informing them that they had not taken steps to maintain the seveial 
.registers which they had been asked to maintain and that, tf they did not 
comply with the order, penal action would be taken against them The mainten- 
ance of registers by the company as to attendance does not make any difference 
to the fact that the contractors’ men are not employees of the company 

48 Much has been made of Ext W/6, which is a communication dated 13th 
June 1966 to Nand Singh It is stated therein that he must supervise the work 
•of contractors’ mazdoors also In the portion marked Ext W/6B it is stated, 
that he should supervise the work of contractors’ labour, and recommend proper 
action, including suspension of the contract, if the work was not being 'I on e 
satisfactorily This does not amount to saying, that the company exercises dis- 
cipline, direction and control over the contractors’ men, or that the contractors 
men are undeT the employment of the company As indicated above, these com- 
munications were sent by the company to see that no provision of the Mines Act 



Sir, S] J HE 6AZEITF OF INDIA .JANUARY 4 I958/PAIJ8A 14 1879 


wa^ violated It ha 1 ? not been proved that the company took any discip lina ry 
.action against any contractor’s men What exactly are the essentials that should 
exist before deciding the question as to the existence of relationship of master 
and servant are also laid down In Kllbui'n & Co (1956 LAC 393) at page 399 
It Is clear from the evidence, that the Standing Orders, Ext M/236, have no 
application to the contractors' men 

49 However, the decision of the Supreme Court in Dharangadhara Chemical 
Works has been relied upon on behalf of the workmen as showing that, if the 
company directs how the work is to be done by the contractors’ men, then that 
■shows that they are the employees of the company The above mentioned deci- 
sion Is however distinguishable upon the facts of this case There the question 
arose with reference to certain salt pan holders or agarias, who themselves did 
work for the company though they also engaged others to do the same On the 
particular facts of that case, it was found that the said agarias were employees 
of the company On the facts of the present case, which are entirely different, 
there can be no doubt at all that the relationship of employer and employee 
dees not exist between the company and the contractors’ men True that the 
company’s Supervisors have to take care to see how the work is done, but this 
is only for the limited purpose of preventing violation of the provisions of the 
Mines Act, and enforcing observation of the Rules and Orders relating to 
mining 

50 Taking all circumstances Into consideration, I find that the men engaged 
by the contractors are not employees of the company, that there is no relation- 
ship of employer and employee between them and the company, that they are 
net workmen within the definition of Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
and that no ilse can be granted in the wages of the contractors men 

31 In the third place, the question next is with reference to wages prevalent 
in quarries and workshop It is proved that there are certain village piece 
workers, who are working In the mines They are given Rs 2-12 per ton for 
.supplies to Sindrl and Rs 3 for supplies to others Ext M/40 is the agreement 
reached In conciliation proceedings on 10th May, 1956 with regard to village 
piece workers So far as workshop men are concerned, Ext M/41 is the settle- 
ment dated 10th May, 1956 arrived at m conciliation proceedings Ext M/42 
contains the grades and scales of pay for the monthly rated and monthly paid 
staff There Is no demand in the statement of demands about revision of wages 
of these persons It is only stated, that the wages of mazdoors should be raised 
to Rs 2-6-0 I find on these issues, that the wages of mazdoors should be raised 
In the manner laid down in paragraph 38 and the revised rates shall come into 
force from the date when this award becomes enforceable The above nse shall 
not however be applicable to the labour engaged by the contractors, who are 
nol employees of the company 

Issue No 4 , 

52 The question next is, whether the piece rates should be revised and linked 
-with the volume of gypsum, and, if so, what should be the rates. In the state- 
ment of demands, it is alleged, that the rates claimed are Rs 2 per ton, that the 
workmen are not satisfied with the way in which the measurement Is done, that' 
the pieces are filled In tubs according to C F , that the tubs are filled not only 
upto the brim, but also above the same, that by this method of measurement 
the workmen lose the fruits of their labour to the extent of about 25 per cent, 
that the rate of lead and lift should be increased, and that it should be doubled 
and linked to weightage rather than to measurement of 45 to 50 C F So far as 
this aspect of the case is concerned, it is stated before me by Shn Manak Chand 
in the course of arguments, that this demand is put-forward only in respect of 
contractors’ labour In view of my finding above, that contractors’ labour is not 
within the purview of the Industrial Disputes Act, this demand cannot be dealt 
with m these proceedings and cannot be accepted 

Issue No 5 (a) & (b) 

53 Then the question is with reference to bonus for the years 1951 52, 1952-53, 
and 1953-54 

54 Firstly issue No 3(b) refers to the question, whether the contractors' 
labour also is entitled to claim any bonus from the management for the said 
years, and, if so, at what rate I have found above, that the labourers engaged 
>hy the contractors are not employees of the company They cannot demand any 
itoonuE from the company Moreover, I have also referred to the evidence of 



6o the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/ PA (JSA 14, 187!) 


Iruier Mohan, MW2, who has deposed, that he gave bonus to the workmen em- 
ployed by him. If at all the labourers engaged by the contractors should look 
to them, their employers, for payment of bonus and not to the company, I 
disallow the claim for bonus put-forward on behalf of the labourers engaged bv 
the contractors. * ‘ 


55. Secondly, the question ij with refcrenco to the departmental workers, i.e 
workmen employed by the company. It is stated by Shri Anand Parkash in* 
the course of arguments, that there are 3 types of departmental mazdoors, 
namely (i) monthly rated monthly paid, (ii) daily rated monthlypaid , and (iii) 
daily rated weekly paid. It is stated before me the except the daily rated weekly 
paid labourers the others were paid bonus during the material years. 


56. On behalf of the workmen Shri Mtmak Chand and Shri Vyas have stated 
before me, that the present demand for bonus is confined to the dally rated 
weekly paid workmen only. Exts. M/144 to M/149 are the balance-sheets, and 
Exts M/151 to 153 show distribution of dividends. Ext. M/154 is filed to show 
payment of commission to Rajasthan. Exts, M/181 and 234 show the wages paid 
and Ext. M/L'35 is the statement cf bonus paid for 1954-55. Ext. M/237 is the 
order of assessment of income-tax for the year 1951-1952. 


57. A number of objections have b ecn raised on behalf of the company to 
the demand for bonus. It may be mentioned, that this demand also was made 
frem time to time, and it also figured in the discussions before the Conciliation 
Officer, which resulted m the agreements Ext. M/7 and M/10. 


58. The first objection raised on behalf of the company is, that the workmen 
are estopp-ed from putting-forward this claim. This is based upon Ext. M/ 10. 
the settlement reached in the course of conciliation proceedings on 25th January, 
195(1. Therein demand No. 2 relates to profits sharing bonus for the years now 
in question. Ext. M/10 is in the following terms ^with reference to this demand: — 


“With regard to demand No. 2 the management agrees to recommend to 
the Board for payment of another month’s bonus lo the departmental 
labour for the financial year 1954-55 ending on 31st March 1955. The 
demands for payment of bonus for the years 1951-52, 1952-53 and 
1953-54 cannot be considered as they are belated and their accounts 
are closed.” 


It Is argued that Ext. M/10 shows that the workers gave up their claim to' 
bonus for the years now in question, and that, because of this the company 
agreed to give another month's bonus for the financial year ending 31st March, 
1955 and that, in these circumstances the workers are estopped from putting- 
forward the present claim- Attention is drawn to the heading, that the various 
matters therein were agreed to. In my opinion the above contention cannot be 
•supported. No doubt there was an agreement to pay extra one month’s bonus 
for the year 1954-56, but it is nowhere stated that because the workmen gave up- 
their claims for the three years in question, the extra one month’s bonus was 
agreed to be given. The company merely maintained their position, that the 
demand would not be considered because the claim was belated and the accounts 
had been closed. I am unable to see any agreement, whether express or implied 
between the parties, according to which the workmen gave up their claim to 
■bonus for the years in question in consideration of there being a recommendation 
by the management to the Board for sanction of an extra month’s bonus for the 
year 1954-55. I find that the workers are not estopped from putting forward 
their claim .to bonus. 


59. The second contention is, that the claim is belated, This contention must- 
be up-held so far as the years 1951-52 and 1952-53 are concerned. The year 
1952-53 ended on 31st March, 1953. It may be pointed out, that the workmen for 
the first time put-forth the claim on 19th May 1955, and it was dealt with in 
Ext. M/7. But the workmen have relied upon Ext, W/17 dated 30th December, 
1954, as containing, a demand for bonus. Dr, Parkash has however argued, that 
no reliance can be placed on Ext. W/17, and that no such demand was served on 
the company. There is no satisfactory or acceptable proof of the fact that Ext. 



Sec. 3] THF. GA/.E1TE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, I958/PAUSA 14, 1879 6l 


'W/17 was sent to the company, Attention may also be drawn to the circums- 
tance, that the demand in paragraph 7 relates to wages and that the word 
■‘‘bonus” has been clearly interpolated in different ink. I am not prepared to place 
any reliance on Ext. W/17, and it has not been satisfactorily proved. I may in 
this connection refer to the evidence of Shri Vyas. He first says, that the 
depiand for bonus was made in August, 1954. He said, that bonus should be 
given to all the workers from the year 1951-52 onwards. He cannot say the 
name of the person who was Manager then. No-one-else was present when ha 
made the demand. He did not bring this demand to the notice of Shri Raj Pal. 
He next states that this demand for bonus was given to the Managing Director 
in February, 1955, Between August, 1954 and February, 1955 he had correspon- 
dence with the management, but did not make a demand in writing for bonus. 
In February, 1955 he gave a demand in writing that bonus should be given, but 
did not specify the years for which it should be given. He admits that it is 
true that he put-forth the demand for bonus specifically for the years now in 
question for the first time in conciliation proceedings in May, 1955. There can, 
therefore, be no doubt on the evidence that the demand for bonus for the years 
now in question was made specifically for the first time in May, 1955. 

60. In the circumstances mentioned above, I am of opinion that the demand 
for the years 1951-52 and 1952-53 is belated. The accounts for the years have 
been closed, the dividend has been distributed. According to the rules of the 
company, certain other classes of departmental labour have been paid bonus. 
There can be no re-opening of the accounts of the company, in order to enable 
the bonus now demanded to be paid for the said years, It is clear from the decision 
oif the Supreme Court in Muir Mills Co. (1955 I LLJ 1), that bonus cannot be 
paid from the reserve transferred to profit and loss account. The decision of the 
Madras High Court in Mysore City Hotels Association Case (1957 I LLJ 282) 
supports the contension of the, management, that the claims for bonus for the 
years now in dispute, iur., 1951-52 and 1952-53 is belated and must bo 
rejected. To the same effect is the decision in Kanshi Iron Foundaiy case (1982 
LAC 350), Caltex case (1952 LAC 402) and Burmah-Shell in 1954 (I LLJ 21). Ia 
view of the catena of decisions, that a belated claim for bonus cannot be enter- 
tained, I am of opinion, that the claim for the years 1951-52, and 1952-1953 does not 
survive and must he rejected. 

01. The question next ib with reference to the year 1953-84, which ended on 
31st March, 1954. So far as this year is concerned, the same argument of bela- 
tedness has been put-forward on behalf of the management. No doubt the 
demand was made about 14 months after the close of the year. The balance- 
sheet for the year in question is Ext. M/147 dated 20th November, 1954. In my 
opinion the claim for this year cannot be held to be belated in these circums- 
tances. 

62. It has to be determined whether there is enough available surplus to war- 
rant payment of bonus for the said year. In Ext M/147 the amount of net pro- 
fit shown to be Rs. 2,37,080-10-8. 

63. There is a profit and loss appropriation account in the balance-sheet. It 
la stated before me on behalf of the management, that during the said year all 
the departmental employees were paid bonus except the daily rated weekly 
paid stall. From the report of the Directors it will appear that an amount of 
Rs. 27,178-9-0 was utilized for payment of bonus to the staff at the rate of l/0th 
of the basic salary drawn during the year ended 31st March, 1954. No exception 
can be taken to this appropriation and the amount has been distributed. 

64. From the available net profits must be deducted the prior charges. In this 
connection I may refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in Baroda Borough 
Municipality Vs. Its workmen (1957 I LLJ 8). The earlier decision in Muir 
Mills case (1955 I LLJ 1) is referred to and it is observed in the said decision as 
follows:— 

“It is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after 
meeting prior or necessary charges. The prior or necessary charges 
were explained as (1) provision for depreciation, (2) reserves for 
rehabilitation, (3) a return of 6% on the paid up capital, and (4) a 
return on working capital at a lesser rate lhah the return on paid 
up capital.” t 

65. With regard to the prior charges to be deducted from the net profit®, 
firstly we have to deduct the amount of Rs, 27,178-0-0 towards bonus that has 
already b&en paid and distributed. This ia a legitimate item of deduction as a 
prior charge, because this is an amount that has already gone 'towards distribution 
-of bonus to employees of the company other than daily rated weekly paid staff. 



62 THE CAZET't E OF INDIA: JANUARY A, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [P\Ri II 


66. Secondly, an amount of Rs. 1,25,000-0-0 was set apart towards taxea. 
This is an item of prior charges. 

67. Thirdly, an amount of Rs. 25,000-0-0 was transferred to general reserve. 
This also must be deducted. 

68. Nextly, the amount or capital invested is about Rs. 4,80,250-0-0, i-K 
roughly about 5 lacs. An amount of Rs. 30,000-0-0 may be deducted towards 
return on capital, calculated at 6%. 

69. Shri Anand Parkash has however argued, that return on capital must be 
awarded at the higher rate, because the venture in question is hazardous. It 
is urged before me that there must be sufficient incentive and attraction for 
investment of capital in such a risky adventure. I am of opinion, that return 
on capital at GHl is quite reasonable, and it cannot be enhanced any further. 


70. Thus the prior charges to be deducted are: — 

(i) Bonus already paid 

(ii) Income-tax 

(iii) Return on capital 

(iv) Transfer to general Reserve 


Rs. 27,178-0 0 
Rs. 125,000-0-0 
Rs. 30,000-0-0 
Rs. 25,000-0-0 


Total 


Rs. 2,07,178-0-0 


71. The net profit shown is Rs 2,37,080-0-0. After deducting the amount of 
prior charges of Rs. 2,07,178-0-0, the balance that remains comes to Rs. 29,902-0-0. 
This sum represents the amount of available surplus for distribution of bonus for 
the year 1953-54. 

72. However, Dr Parka*h has argued, that an amount of Rs. 25,000/- was 
written off as promotion money, and that this amount also must be deducted towards 
prior charges. No doubt the balance-sheets for the previous years show that 
in the said years a portion of the profit was deducted towards promotion money 
written off. However, I am unable to hold that any amount can be written off 
in the year 1953-1954. The company has been In existence from a number of years 
prior to 1954. There Is no satisfactory proof as to how this expense was incurred, 
or In what circumstances the amount came to be written oil. Apart from this, 
this is not a legitimate amount of prior charge to be deducted. 

73. The question next is about the amount that should be awarded as bonus- 

It is staled befoie me in the course of arguments by Dr. Parkash, that the amount 
of basic wages paid to daily rated weekly paid labour in the year 1953-54 
amounted to Rs. 1,09,499/-. This is also seen from Ext. M/234. Ext. M/235 has 
been filed to show the amount that was actually distributed towards bonus, and 
It is stated therein that an amount of Rs. 18,250/- will have to be paid if daily 
rated weekly paid labour was also to be paid on the same basis as the other 
employees'. It must be remembered that the other employees were paid at 

1/8 of their earnings according to the report of the Directors. The 

amount of hasic wages paid m the said year is Rs. 1,09,290/- i.e. 
about Rs, 9,260/- per month. I am of opinion, that there is enough available 
surplus to warrant payment of 1/12 of the basic wnges earned during the year 
towards bonus, and the same shall be paid according to the rules of the company 

in force to the workmen who worked in the said year. I find accordingly on thl» 

Issue. 

Issue No. 6 1 

74. This relates to the termination of employment of certain workmen. In the 
statement of demands It Is alleged, that the termination of employment of workmen 
by the management during the period from 3th June 1956 to the date of cessation 
of strike is not just or Justified, and that the workers are entitled lo claim relief 
Ih this connection. The management have contended, that the termination of 
service of workers was justified. It is important to note that no details are 
furnished in the statement of demands about the names of the persons discharged, 
wr the dates on which they were discharged. Even the reference does not give 
the said details, and this Rem of reference suffer from vaguness. 

75. However In the course of trial both parties agreed before me, that two seta 
of worker* were affected, and that item No. 6 of the reference deals with tbea* 
two sets of workers. 



Sec. 3] THE GAZE I I E Ol INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1938, PAI SA 14. 1873 63 . 


76. Firstly, we have to deal with the discharge of 18 workers, whose names 
are found In Ext.W/42, filed on behalf of the workmen. They are:-^ 

1. Shri Amar Singh, 

2. Shri Kanwer Singh, 

3. Shri Barkat All. 

4. Shri Fakir Shah. 

3 Shri Bhanwar Shah. 

6. Shri Hamid Khan. 

7. Shri Taj Mohd. 

8. Shri Ahmad Shah. 

3. Shri Ramjan. 

10. Shri Panchu. 

11. Shri Jiwan, 

12. Shri Bhanwar Singh. 

13. Shri Udai Singh, 

14. Shri Krishna. 

15. Shri Chhater Singh. 

16. Shri Alamali Khan. 

17. Shri Bachan Singh. 

18. Shri Pirn Ram. 

77- The contention on behalf of the management Is, that these 18 men were- 
temporary, and that, therefore, their service came to an end. According to the- 
evidence of Shri Raj Pal, the services of the 18 men mentioned in Ext.W / 42 
beeame terminated with effect from 1 1th May 1956. Exts./M188-189 are cards and 
Ext. M/ 190 is stated to be an application for appointment, Their services came 
in an end, because their jobs came to an end, and also in accordance with the 
terms of their bonds. The company did not want to increase their liability by 
Keeping them further in service, They are said to have been engaged for the 
first time as per their bonds, Exts.M/202 to 218. and not earlier. No notice was 
necessary to these persons and it was not given. No other services were terminated 
before the strike except of these 18 man noted in Ext. W/42. It is thus clear 
from the evidence, that these 18 men were discharged because they were only- 
temporary hands, The bonds, Exts.M/202-218. do show, that the workmen In 
question were employed as temporary workers till the completion of (be job, 
or for a fixed period of time. No notice was necessary in terms of these agreements. 
These cases are clearly governed by the decision of the Supreme Court in Rohtas 
Industries Ltd. (1.956 II LLJ 444). There the question arose with reference to 
certain temporary employees and it was held, that the management were entitled to 
terminate their serivces when their contracts came to an end. On the same 
principle here also the workmen in question were engaged only for a temporary 
period and for a temporary purpose for doing work which was essentially of a 
temporary nature, and the management was entitled to terminate their services 
according to the terms of their contracts of service. There was no need to give 
them any notice. The company was not bound to keep them in service. As 
observed by Ihe Supreme Court in J. K. Iron & Steel case (1956 T LLJ 227)., the 
company was not bound to suffer the dead-weight of an uneconomic surplus. I find, 
that the termination of service of the said 18 workmen Is valid and justified. an <l 
that the said workmen are not entitled to any relief in this connection. 

78. Secondly, 11 is contended on behalf of the workmen, that thp Service of 
two other workers were terminated, namely Ghulam Shah and Rahim Shah. Ext. 
W/45 is a notice dated 19t.h June 1956 that was served on Rahim Shah, six days 
before thei strike commenced on 25th June 1956. According to the case of the 
management, Rahim Shah was looking after the village piece workers’ work at 
Quarry No. 8 as a Labour Mate, On 10 th May 1953 there wys an agreement 
arrived at with the village piece workers (Ext. M/40). However, they went on 
an Illegal strike from 11th May 1956. There was not enough work for Rahim Shah 
to supervise, and, therefore, he was laid oil for an Indefinite period until ihe 
normal work was resumed. It Is stated in Ext.W/45, that, as the lay oil was due 
to the strike on the part of the village piece workers, he was not entitled to any 
compensation. WW1. Rahim Shah, Reposes, that he was a labour mate, and that 
he was removed from service on 20th June 1956. He was asked to dissuade the 
workers from going on strike. He expressed his inability to do so, and this led 
to the termination of his service, Ext.W/3 is the notice served on Ghulam Shah 
and on him. He Is the Central Secretary of the Union. Rahim Shah denies that 

there was any strike of the village piece workers from 11th May 1056, 

79. WW18 Is Ghulam Shah, and he was also a labour mate. Re supervised the 
work of raising and got railway wagons loaded. He was given a notice on the 
19th June by the company that his services were terminated. Prior to that he had 
worked for about 9 or 10 months. No charge-sheet was given to him and no- 
enqulry was held. He was not told by the company in his capacity as a mate,, 
that the village piece workers were not working and had gone on strike. 



,64 IHE GA/ET'IE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [PARr II 


80. The exidence of Shri Raj Pal Is, that the services of these two men were 
not terminated at any time. They were only laid off. He cannot say that any 
lay oil' compensation was paid to them. 

81. The contention on behalf of the management is, that the village piece 
-Workers were on strike from 11th May 1956, that accordingly there was no work 
«of supervision for these labour mates, and that, therefore, they were laid off. It 
is clearly established on the evidence which I see no reason to discredit, that 
these men weie not discharged but were only laid off- The argument, that they 
were not paid lay oil compensation, and thai, therefore, the lay oil is not valid, 
cannot be accepted. Because according tio Section 25E of the Industrial Disputes 
Act no compensation Is payable if the lay oil is due to a strike or slowing down 
of production on the part of the workmen in another part of the establishment. 

82. It is howevei argued, that the theory of the management that there was a 
strike by the village piece workers from 11th May, 1956 Is not true. This conten- 
tion is not entitled to weight. There is evidence of Shri Raj Pal examined on' 
behalf of the management, that the village piece workers were on strike, and I 
prefer to believe his evidence. Moreover, I may refer to Ext. M/200 dated 
16th June. 1956, which is a copy of the notice put up by the management stating 
that the village piece workers had not been coming tQ work from 11th April, 1956, ^ 
.and were on strike from that day, and that unless they returned to work within 
48 hours, they would subject themselves to disciplinary action. I find that Rahim 
Shah and Ghulain Shah were laid off, that this became necessary as the village 
piece workers struck work from 11th May 1956, that such lay off is justified, that 
they are not entitled to compensation in view of Section 25E clause (3), and that 
no relief is due to them. I find accordingly on this issue, 

.Issue No. 2 

83. The question next is about the strike from 25th June 1950. It is com- 
mon ground that there was a strike front 25th June 1956. A strike notice was 
given on 5th June 1956. The strike commenced on 25th June 1056 and ended 
toy an agreement reached on 27th July 1956, copy of which Is Ext. M/18. 

84. The contention on behalf of the workmen is, that the said strike was both 
legal and justified, whereas the management have pleaded, that It was illegal, 
violent and unjustified. 

85. In the first place, I shall take up the question of legality of the strike, It 
is necessary to go into the history of the dispute between the parties. 

80. It Is clear irom the evidence, that the workmen were agitating from some- 
time prior to 25th June 1956 for bettering their lot Ext. W/82 is the minutes of 
discussion that were held al a meeting between the parties In the presence of 
■Shri A. t\ Datto. the Managing Director, on 23 February 1955. Reference may next 
be made to Ext. M/7, which is an agreement arrived at on 19th May 1955 in the 
•presence of the Conciliation Officer, Ajmer. The demands put forward on behalf 
of the workmen are dealt with therein, In paragraphs 11 and 12, with reference 
■to rates of wages and bonus for 1951-54, It is stated, that for the time being it was 
agreed to defer these two demands for increase in the rates of wages and payment 
of bonus, lor collecting necessaiy data and statistics In regard to profit and loss 
and other particulars. Further outstanding demands were to be taken up for 
conciliation at the next meeting Ext. M/8 is a copy of the minutes of the discussion 
held in connection with implementation of Ext. M/7 on 22nd October 1955, ahd 
it proves that items No. 1-8 had been complied with as per Standing Orders Act. 
With regard to item No. 10 it is slated, that the management had provided 

uniforms to sweepers and office boy. This is signed by Rahim Shah. 

87. On behalf of the Union a sti'ixe notice was given. Ext. M/9 dated 2h‘d 
January 1956, and it was intimated that a strike won id be called from 1st February 
1956 for the reasons mentioned in Ext. M/9A Obviously the strike did not come 
off. There were conciliation proceedings arid a memorandum of settlement was 
arrived at on 25th January 1956, i.e. Ext. M/10. 

88- Reference mav next be made to Ext. M/40, which is the memorandum of 
settlement dated Kith May 1956, with reference to village piece workers Ext. M/41 
is another settlement dated 1 0th May 1956 arrived at in the presence of the 
Conciliation Officer with reference to the workshop workers of Bikaner Gypsum 
ILld. 

89. The contention on behalf of the management by Dh. Parkash al>out the 

illegality of the strike is based on the agreements leferred to above, and more 



Sec. B] THE GA2ETTE OE INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 65 


particularly Ext. M/10. Section 24(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act is in the 
following terms:— 

“A strike or lock out shall be illegal if it is commenced or declared — 

(1) in contravention of Section 22 or Section 23. or 

(ii) it is continued in contravention of an order made under sub-section 
(3) of Section 10,” 

The management urge, that the strike from 25th June 1950 is illegal because it 
contravened Section 24 clause (1). it is argued that the strike is in contraven- 
tion of Section 23 clause (c) of the Act, The said clause provides, that no workman 
whoi is employed in an industrial establishment shall go on strike in breach of 
contract, and no employer of any such workman shall declare a lock out, during 
any period, in which a settlement or award is in operation in respect of any of 
the matters covered by the settlement or award, Dr. Parkash contends, that 
the notice of strike that was given in this connection is only in respect of most 
of the matters concluded by the settlements, Ext- M/10, and Exts. M/40-41 that 
the matters in respect of which the strike was undertaken are matters covered by 
the said settlements which were in force at the time of the strike, and that, there- 
fore, the strike is illegal. It Is note-worthy that the settlements, above referred 
to, are for an indefinite period, and there is no fixed period therein. Under. Section 
2(p) a settlement means a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation 
proceedings. This is under the old Act as it stood before the amendment, which 
was in force at the time of the strike. Under the amended Act, a settlement 
includes a written agreement between the employer and workmen arrived at 
otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceedings where such agreement has 
been signed by the parties thereto in such manner as may be prescribed and a 
copy thereof had been sent to the appropriate Government and the Conciliation 
O nicer . The agreements in question are signed by the parties. Ext. M/10 is 
signed by Shri Murlidhar Vyas, Rahim Shah, Joint-Secretary and Ghulam Shah, 
Member, and by Fazal Shah, President. The agreements in question are ''settle- 
ments” within the meaning of the definition under the old Act, as they were 
arrived at during the course of conciliation proceedings. According to Section 19 
the settlements arc to be binding for such period as is agreed upon by the parties, 
and if no period is stipulated, for a period of six months, and shall continue to 
be binding on the parties after the expiry of the above period until the expiry 
of two months from the date on which a notice in writing of an intention to 
terminate the settlement is given by one of the parties to the other party or 
parties, to the settlement. The settlements, Exts. M/10, 40 and 41, were In 
operation on the date of the strike. No such notice as is provided for under Section 
10 had been given, and the agreements were not terminated by any notice on 
behalf of the workers. Therefore, when settlements were in operation at the 
time the strike began on 25th June 1950, if it was in connection with any of the 
matters covered by ihe settlements, it is illegal. 

90. It falls to be determined whether any of the matters, on account of which 
the strike was undertaken, is covered by the settlements referred to above. 
Ext. M/229 is the notice of strike. In Ext. M/229 there is mention of the notice 
dated 2nd January i956, and it is averred that the management had not imple- 
mented any of the demands on behalf of the workmen. It will appear that though 
notice was given that the strike would commence from 19th July 1950, It was 
subsequently stated that 19th July 1956 was a mistake for 19th June 1050. 

91. The first demand in Ext. M/229, is that ihere should be an Increase In 
wages at the rate of Rs, 2/8/- to male labour and Rs. 2/- to female labour. This 
is covered by Ext, M/7, and I have already referred to paragraphs 11 and 12 
therein. In Ext. M/10 dated 25th January 19£G it is stated, that with reference 
to the demand for increase in wages, the management had pointed out tnat the 
rate of supply to Slndri Fertilizers was based on cost examination, that the rates 
for mazdoors were based on the same, that, if any Increase was to be given to the 
mazdoors, it would affect the rate of supply tc Sindri, and that it was agreed that 
the Government may further examihe tire accounts to settle the increase in wages. 

92 Demand No. 2 relates to contract labour. I have already found above that 
contract labour is outside the scope of the Industrial Disputes Act and that they 
are not the workmen of the company. 

93. Demand No, 3 relates to payment of bonus for the years 1951-52, 19B2-B3, 
jnd 1953-64: With reference to this, the management agreed to recommend to 
the Board for payment of another month’s bonus to the departmental labour for 
the year ended 1954-55. The demand for payment of bonus for the years referred 
to above was not taken into consideration as the demand was belated and the 
accounts had been closed. 



-66 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/EAUsA 14, 18)9 [Part 11 


94, Demand No. 4 relates to the establishment of a co-operative society for 
village piece workers. In Ext. M/10 it was offered by the Union, that through the 
village co-operative society they would work Quarries Nos. 8, 9 and 11 on a co- 
operative basis, and they also undertook to give gypsum to Sindri with 87 per 
cent purity and below 8 inches in size, at the rate ox Rs. 6 per ton, inclusive of 
all costs set out therein. The workers were to pay the cost of explosives, if they 
had to be used. With reference to this offer on behalf of thei Union, the manage- 
ment stated that they would consult their Managing Agents, and inform the 
Regional Labour Commissioner their decision within one month. 

95. Item No. 5 relates to victimisation of certain workers. This demand is 
covered by Demand No. 6 in Ext, M/10. It was agreed that the Union Representa- 
tive should give specific instances of victimisation and forward the same to the 
Conciliation Officer who would inquire into the matter within one month. 


96. Demand No. 6 in the strike notice is to the effect, that the persons, who 
had put in more than one year’s service, should be made permanent. This i, 
apparently related to implementation of the Standing Orders, and it is pointed 
out by Dr. Parkash, that It is covered by item No. 4 of Ext. M/10. 


97. Demand No. 7 in the strike notice relates to wages and grades of workshop 
workmen. Ext. M/41 deals with the same and it was agreed therein, that Ihe 
Union and the management should collect from various institutions, Chambal 
Hydro Electricity Scheme, Palana Badvasi, etc., particulars regarding the various 
grades and scales of pay, and that they should be placed before the Managing 
Director, who was to arrive on or about 23rd May, 1956. The Union was also 
requested to give the particular cases which they wanted the management to 
consider in the matter of increments. With reference to other demands therein 
the Union agreed to supply the information required, 


08. Demand No. 8 deals with the labour engaged by contractors, which is 
outside the scope of this adjudication. 

99 Demand No 9 is to the effect, that Sunday should be observed as a holiday 
with wages Item No. 16 in Ext. M/10 deals with the same, and it was agreed 
that the matter was to be taken up with the Government and the decision was 
to be binding on the parties. 

100 Demand No. 10 relates to certain deception and fraud practised in con- 
nection with tha Standing Orders. Items No. 4 and 8 in Ext. M/10 deal with the 
Standing Orders and it was agreed that the Conciliation Officer should inquire 
Into the matters. 


101 Demand No, 11 is to the effect that there should be equal terms in the 
matter of service and promotion in respect of all workers. This is the subject- 
matter of demand No. 18 in Ext. M/10. 

102. Demand No. 12 deals with payment of bonus to labourers engaged by 
contractors. This demand again is outside the scope of the Industrial Disputes 
A.ct. 


103. A comparison of the demands as made in the strike notice with the 
Agreements that were arrived at between the parties, shows full well, that most 
of the matters in the strike notice are covered by the agreements referred to 
above These agreements were in force at the time the strike, began and the 
strike notice was given on 5th June, 1956. When most of the matters in the. strike 
nbtice are coverel by the agreements, the strike is illegal according to Section 24 
of the. Act. 

104 However on behalf of thd workmen it has been contended by Shri Manak 
Chand' that the agreements in question were not arrived at m the course of 
conciliation proceedings, and that, therefore, they are not valid and binding on 
the workers This is an untenable proposition. The officers, before whom these 
agreements were arrived at, were holding conciliation proceedings, and these 
noreements were entered into in the course of such proceedings. These are settle- 
ments Within the meaning of the definition in Section 2(p) of the Industrial Dis- 
nutes Act These agreements were m operation and in force at the, time of the 
Strike, which is consequently illegal in view of Sections 23 and 24 of the Act. 

ms TI in also contended by Dr, Parkash, that even when a strike is undertaken 
tnr « nurnose which i" partly legal and partly illegal, the strike is wholly illegal, 
and Reliance 0 is W placed 3 orf Section 84, page 246, of labour Disputes and tfollecfive 
Bargaining by Ludwig Teller. Even if some, matters in the strike notice are not 
covered by [he agreements, even then the whole strike is illegal. The language 



$ 7 ' 


Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


of Section 23(c) also makes it clear that the strike will be illegal if any of the 
matters is covered by the settlement or award. If the strike was hi respect of 
even one demand, which was covered by the agreements, it would bo illegal, In 
Laxmi Devi Sugar Mills Vs, Ram Sarup and others (1957 I LLJ 17) a strike for 
only a few hours was held to be. illegal. I find that the strike is illegal as being 
opposed to Sections 23 and 24 of the Act. 

106. Nextly it is well settled that there can be no continuity of service iri 
connection with an illegal strike. Continuous service is defined in Section 2(eee) 
of the Act. “Continuous service” means uninterrupted service, and includes 
service which may be interrupted merely on account of sickness or authorised 
leave or an accident or a strike which is not illegal or a lock out or cessation of 
work which is not due to any fault on the part of the workmen. Here there can 
be no continuity of service, because the interruption of service was due to a strike, 
which is illegal and to illegal conduct and fault on the part of the workmen. The 
strikers — employees are, therefore, not entitled to any continuity of service, from 
the period when the strikei began upto the date when they were taken back into 
service after the cessation of the strike. In this connection I may also refer to 
the decision of the Supreme Court in Buckingham & Carnatic Mills, and their 
workmen (1953 I LLJ 181), where a similar question arose. It was held, 'hat on 
account of the strike being illegal, the workmen lost the benefit of holidays that 
they would otherwise have got under the rules. The principle laid down therein 
applies to this case also. The absence of the workmen during the period of strike 
cannot be condoned and they cannot he given continuity of service I find that 
the workmen are not entitled to continuity of service in respect of the period of 
strike. 

107. Nextly, it is clear that thei workmen are not entitled to any wages for thte 
period of strike in consequence of its being illegal. In the decision in Mahalaxmi 
Cotton Mills, and their workmen (1952 LAC 370) it was held, that the striking 
workmen were not entitled to wages for the period of strike in consequence of the 
strike being illegal The decision in Lord Krishna Sugar Mills and their work- 
men (1952 I LLJ 803) is also an authority for the proposition that where the 
strike is illegal, the workmen are not entitled to any wages whatever for the strike 
period. 

108. In the second place, the question is with reference to justification for the 
strike. According to the contention on behalf of the management, the strike Was 
wholly unjustified, and there was no need at all for the workmen to go on strike 
and much less for such a long period. In the statement of demands, it ts alleged 
by the workmen, that the strike is legal and justified, because the demands in 
the strike notice were all well founded, that no heed was paid to the strike notice, 
that all the available remedies were exhausted, that it was also due to the high- 
handedness of the company towards the workmen, and that it was lengthened on 
account of acts and omissions of the management. It is contended on behalf of 
the workmen, that no heed was paid to the demands in the strike notice., and 
that, therefore, they were provoked into going on a strike. 

109. The answer on behalf of the management is, that most of the demands 
covered by the strike notice are covered by the agreements, that in the mattes:. Of 
implementation of the agreements referred to above they did what nil. lay in their 
power, and that on the contrary the Union did not implement the agreements and 
did not carry out their part of the settlement. With reference to the agreement, 
Ext. M/7 there is a remark in Ext. M/8, dated 22nd October 1965 by the Concilia- 
tion Officer that all the demands, Nos. 1 — 8, had been complied with as per 
Standing Orders. 

110. Next taking the agreement, Ext. M/10, it will be seen therefrom, that 
demand No. 7, relating to adequate arrangements for food, housing, etc. for 
workers; demand No. 9 relating to fixation of working hours; demand No. 10 
relating to increase of wages for drivers, and supply of uniforms; demand No 12 
relating to machine working of the mines; demand No, 13 about reformation of 
the contract system, and demand No. 17, were all dropped. In view of the 
agreement the Union agreed to withdraw the strike notice Ext. M/9, dated 2nd 
January, 1956. The demands, that remained, were about increase in wages, pay- 
ment of bonus, remuneration to village piece workers, and arrangements about 
quarrying in the mines, implementation of Standing Orders, alleged victimisatiqn 
of workers, etc. I am unable to see that the workers had any reason for resorting 
to strike to a few months thereafter on 25th June, 1956. 

1 

111. Turning to the several demands, firstly reference may be made to the 
demand for increase in wages in the strike notice, Ext. M/229. In Ext. M/7 if was 
Bgreed that the Government should examine the accounts to settle the increase to 



<58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


wages. With reference to workshop employees, it was agreed in Ext. M/41 that 
information should be collected from various concerns for the purpose of having 
suitable grades and increments. The management have produced Ext. M/221, as 
showing the* manner in which they implemented their part of the undertaking 
in the agreement. It is the case of the management, that the matter had been 
referred to the Government, and that the cost examination yet remained to be 
done. Ext. M/52 is a letter addressed by the management on 1st May, 1950 to 
the Regional Labour Commissioner that till then no examination of the accounts 
had been made by the Government. Exts. M/230 and 231 are also referred to 
in this connection. The management requested information as to the proper 
authority to whom the accounts should be submitted for examination in terms 
of the memorandum of settlement. It does not appear from the evidence! that 
the Union took any steps in the matter of getting the accounts examined. 
Indubitably the examination of accounts by Government agencies required time. 
The management did what they could by addressing the Labour Commissioner 
about the examination of accounts by tho Government. It was not also decided 
which Government should examine the accounts, the State Government of 
Rajasthan or the Central Government. According to the evidence of Shri Datta, 
MW 17, the company wrote to the Government about the examination of accounts, 
but the Central Government did not examine them, The Regional Labour Com- 
missioner wanted to examine the accounts, but in the meantime the strike took 
place. 

112, Nextly with reference to bonus, the management gavei additional bonus 
for the year 1954-55. There was dispute between the parties about the liability 
for bonus for the years 1951 — 54, and thei management refused to consider this 
demand in the agreement Ext. M/10. 

113. Nextly so far as the village piece workers are concerned, the company 
accepted the proposal of the Union for the formation of a co-operative society, as 
mentioned in the agreement, Ext. M/10. That the company were taking steps in 
the matter of formation of the co-operative society, does not admit of any doubt. 
According to the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, the terms and conditions about the 
co-operative society were not incorporated in the agreement, dated 25th January, 
I960. That contained only brief terms, and they had to be elaborated and clarified 
before any contract with the co-operative society could be entered into. Ext. M/ 
201 shows that a letter was addressed to the Regional Labour Commissioner on 
29th February 1956, seeking clarification on the question of formation of the 
co-operative society, Ext. W/4, dated 24th June, 1956 is addressed to the Secretary, 
Gypsum Mines Workers’ Union, and it is stated therein that a letter dated 29th 
February, 1950 had been sent to the Union, and that, as soon as the clarification 
was received and the co-operative society was formed and registered, then an 
agreement would have to be entered into with the Managing Agents, Ext. W/33 
la a draft agreement between the company and the co-operative society to be 
formed. Ext. W/34 is a letter of the Union to the company in reply to the 
clarification sought by the Bikaner Gypsum Ltd. in their letter dated 29lh 
February, 1956. Ext.. W/36 is a copy of a draft with regard to the formation 
of the co-operative society. Ext. M/46 is also relevant in this matter. It will be 
seen from the documents that correspondence! was going on between the Union 
and the company with regard to the formation of the co-operative society. No 
doubt there was a demand by the Union for payment of increase in the rates paid 
to the village piece workers, as can be seen from Ext. M/43, the minutes of dis- 
cussion on 14th, 15th and 16th June, 1956. The complaint of the company was, 
that tho workmen were not giving gypsum of the required purity, and that a 
lesser price was given by Sindri Fertilizers for sub standard gypsum. Ext. M/40 
was entered into on 10th May, 1956. It was agreed therein, that before the 
formation of the co-operative society, the green gypsum or the inferior gypsum 
would be removed by the labourers at the cost of the company, that there was 
loss of purity in regard to despatch of gypsum in the fortnights ended 15th and 
30th April, 1958, that the units of purity would be made up by the village piece 
workers as soon as possible, and that advance payment for this tqnnage had been 
decided to be paid at the rate of Rs. 2/12/- per ton on the understanding that in 
future material below 87 per cent, would not be loaded into the wagons and the 
lost units would be made up as soon as possible. In case the purity was not 
made up within the succeeding six weeks, deduction at the rate of -/4 /- per ton 
was to be made in final settlement of bills. It is in evidence on behalf of the 
management, that Sindri Fertilizers made deductions on account of lack of purity 
In the gypsum supplied to them. The Managing Director, Shri Datta, MW 17, says, 
that their price to Sindri is linked up with purity and that for purity below 87 per 
cent they are penalised. It is abundantly clear that loss of purity is a serious 
matter, because the company receives a lower price for gypsum of low purity, 



Sec. S] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 69 


To ensure proper working of Quarries No. 8, 9, and 11 and supply of gypsun* 
of the required purity, the formation of a co-operative. society was envisaged in 
the agreement, Ext, M/10. There was correspondence between the Union and 
the company about the same and steps were being taken for implementation of 
this part of the agreement also. 

114. Again with reference to the question of victimisation of employees, the 
Union was asked to give specific instances. It docs not appear from the material 
on record, that any such instances were brought to the notice of the Regional 
Labour Commissioner or to the management, or that any information was supplied 
in this behalf by the Union, as required in Ext, M/10. 

115. With reference to wages and grades of workshop employees, an agree- 
ment was reached in Ext. M/41. Information had to be collected from various 
concerns. The management have stated, that letters had been written to various 
establishments, and that some of them had sent replies and some had not. The 
management were doing what all they could with a view to implementation of 
the agreement in this respect also. 

116. Nextly, with reference to the demand, that Sunday should be declared a 
holiday, this was a matter again for action by the Government, With reference 
to the demand of equality In the matter of service and promotion, and with 
reference to the demand about non-implementation of Standing Orders, it was 
agreed, that the Union was to submit to the Conciliation Officer cases of infringe- 
ment of Standing Orders, It does not appear that the Union gave any information 
about such infringement. 

117. Nextly, with reference to the demand on behalf of contract labour, I 
have found above that workers engaged by the contractors are not workmen of the 
company. 

118. The last demand relates to certain fraud and deception said to have been 
practised in the matter of Standing Orders. Ext. M/236 is a copy of the Standing 
Orders in English. The Hindi translation is Ext. M/227. Exts. M/191 — 196 and 
197 to 199 are also referred to in this connection. I fail to see what fraud or 
deception there was in the matter of Standing Orders, as alleged in the strike 
notice. The Standing Orders were approved by the certifying authority. Ext. 
M/228 is the letter dated 17th June, 1955 from the Regional Labour Commissioner 
to the company wherein it was informed that he had gone through the Hindi 
translation and It was apnroved bv him. If thee workmen were not satisfied with 
the Standing Orders, as they stood, it was open to them to take such proceedings 
as were available to them under law for modification of the same. 

119. A scrutiny of the evidence on record reveals, that with reference to the 
several demands of the workmen, the company had been doing whatever lay in 
their power In the matter of implementation of what had been agreed upon in the 
several agreements that were entered into. There was no reason or provocation 
for the strike. On the contrary, the evidence will show beyond doubt that the 
Union had not taken steps in the matter of implementation of the several agree- 
ments. Ext. M/221 hag been filed on behalf of the company to show non-imple- 
mentation by thei Union of the several items in the agreements arrived at between 
the parties. The evidence of Shri Vyas may also be referred to in this connection. 
His evidence is, that there was no examination of the accounts by the Government 
There was no question of his approaching the Government about the examination 
of accounts, because he wrote to thei Government that the agreement was not 
implemented. Next he says that, when he met the Conciliation Officer on 8th 
February, 1950, he told him about the names of the workmen who had been 
victimised. He did not get any letter from the Conciliation Officer. He does not 
now remember whether he. pursued the matter after 8th February 1956. It. does* 
not. appear from the record that any such names were given to the Conciliation 
Officer. He next says, that regarding retrenchment of the workmen he gave names 
of the workmen to the Conciliation Officer. He cannot say off hand "whether he 
wrote to the Conciliation Officer. He gave, a list of the workmen who were not 
getting equal treatment. Because 36 times Harijans were turned out that 
condition is mentioned in the agreement. He gave, the names of these Harijans 
at the time of the inquiry, but he did not take up the matter with the Conciliation 
Officer. When his attention is drawn to Ext. M/40, he says that the labourers did 
not know anything about purity, When he was asked a specific question whether 
the workmen made up the purity, his answer was that the company' knew it 
better. He did not ascertain whether the workers had made up the purity He 
had no duty in the matter and it was that of the Supervisor to do so In regard 
to the workshop people, he says that he was obliged to sign the agreement because 



7o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part II 


his labourers were also involved. Some of the workshop men are members of 
his Union. He represented all the workers before the Conciliation Officer. He 
did not furnish the details contemplated in Ext. M/41. With reference to demand 
No. 4 in Ext. M/41, he could not say if the Union gave any details to the manage- 
ment regarding grades and scales in other similar industries. He wrote to a 
person in Lakheri, but the latter did not send him the information. He, did not 
approach any other persons besides the Lakheri man, He did not write to the 
management to ascertain whether they had obtained all the information. With 
reference to the Co-operative society, the evidence of Shrl Vyas is, that the 
registration of the Society could not be affected because the company did not 
give the correct terms. The terms given by the company were stated to be 
against law. The Inspector of Co-operative Societies did what all was necessary 
for formation of the society, but the registration was held-up. The fee was 
also deposited late. Shri Vyas says that the Co-operative society was registered 
last month, i.e., in September, 1957, With reference to Standing Orders, he com- 
plained that they were not modified, but he, did not apply for modification of the 
Standing Orders. He cannot say definitely whether he took the necessary pro- 
cedure under law for modification of the same. He cannot say whether Hindi 
translation was not put up on the notice-board before the strike began. His 
compaint now is, that the Standing Orders were not explained in Hindi. It will 
be seen that there is force in the contention on behalf of the management, that, 
while they took all possible steps to implement the terms of the agreement entered 
into with the Union, the latter did not take any effective steps in the matter. 


120. From a review of the evidence, it is perfectly clear, that most of the 
demands contained in the strike notice were covered by the agreements entered 
into between the parties in conciliation proceedings. The management had done 
what all lay in their power for implementation of the agreements, but the Union 
did not do its part in regard to such matters. In such circumstances, I fail to 
see what justification was there for launching a strike from 25th June, 1956. 
The various matters, like increase in wage rates, examination of accounls by 
Government, formation of co-operative society, fixation of grades and scales, and 
obtaining of information from other concerns, necessarily required time for com- 
pletion. There was no justification for the workmen to have, recourse to direct 
action in a light-hearted manner on 25th June, 1956. 


121. However, on behalf of the Union it is contended, that the workmen had 
become desperate, that they had not obtained any redress, and that their living 
conditions were intolerable, and that in these circumstances they had no option 
except to strike, and that, therefore, the strike is justified. Firstly It is pointed 
out, that there were no dwellings provided for them. Some witnesses on behalf 
of the workmen have admitted, that a number of quarters have been provided 
for departmental workers. There is no doubt that the company has provided 
housing to its workers. Shri Vyas says, that there are 300 huts, about 50 or 60 
quarters, and 8 in the process of construction. When his attention Is drawn to 
Ext. M/182, he savs. that it is not correct. According to the evidence of Shri 
Seshadri, the Assistant Engineer. 48 huts have been constructed for the workers 
All these are inhabitable. He denies the suggestion, that only 23 are habitable 
and the rest are uninhabitable as their roofs have been blown off. They are all 
room tenements. No electricity has been provided to these huts. Ext. 
®*/221 j 0n ™* ns * be ^ etailq the tenements and the housing accommodation 
provided. The evidence of Shri Raj Pal is, that double rooms units too have 
been provided. He further says, that every one of the departmental workers 
has been provided with quarters except those living in villages. Some of them 
had been provided with ‘slrki’ huts. These number about 200, About 8 to 10 
per cent, of the departmental labour live in their own houses in the villages 
The village piece workers live in their own houses in villages. According to the 
evidence of WW 10 Puran. there are 72 quarters and 8 are being built. There 
are about, 300 sirki huts for departmental labour and contractors’ labour. He 
nas got quarters. It is not as though that the company has not been taking 
any steps at all for providing housing accommodation. It mav be inadequate 
but making provision for housing, necessarily takes time. There can be no 
impatience about the matter. However, it is argued, that no corrugated iron 
S? ♦ «T uts been P ro vMed. The contention on behalf of the company is 

that thev could not vet the necessarv material in spite of their attempts to get 

ennnleiVe' ,® xtSl to 1 24 and 220 are the documents relied upon in this 

onnectlon to prove that the company was in fact making every effort to get the 
oecessary corrugated iron sheets. If the comnanv has not been able to provide 
irore nousmg accommodation, it Is not due to their fault or unwillingness. 



Sec. ji] i'hk gazette of iNbiA: jAkbARV 4, iysS/pAbsA 14, 1879 


122. Nextly it is argued, that there are no educational and medical facilities. 
It is admitted that there is a school and that there is a teacher, who is working 
therein. It is also in evidence that there are medical facilities There is a 
dispensary and there is a doctor in attendance. The evidence of Mst. Kesar, 
WW 5, is, that the doctor pays visits, and that she got medicine. 

123. Nextly, it is urged by Shri Manak Chand, that there was no adequate 
water supply. The contention on behalf of the management is, that in the 
region, where the mines are situate, it is very difficult to obtain supply of water, 
that formerly water was being obtained in tank wagons from Bikaner and that 
it was being supplied on camel’s back. The evidence of some of the witnesses 
on behalf of the workmen is, that each workman does not get even two pitchers 
of water per day, and that the water, that he gets, is not sufficient even for 
drinking and kitchen use. According to the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, 40 gallons 
are bemg supplied to daily rated monthly paid people, 20 gallons, and 8 gallons 
a day, to daily rated weekly paid persons, and contractors’ labour respectively. 
Formerly water was being supplied from tankers of Bikaner, each about 4,000 
gallons. Subsequently two ordinary wells and a tube well were made ready 
in 1952-63. The present water supply is 26,000 gallons. The company has been 
doing its best to supply water in the difficult terrain. 

124. It is next contended for the workmen, that there are no lighting facili- 
ties. It is in evidence, that certain quarters have been provided with electricity, 
though not all. It is also objected that there is no street lighting. It is in 
evidence that there are posts, but the workmen’s witnesses say there are no 
bulbs. The suggestion to Shri Vyas in cross-examination is, that workers steal 
bulbs. He denies the suggestion, and says that if any bulbs are fused in the 
officers’ colony, bulbs in the workers’ quarters are removed. 

125. Even granting for the sake of argument, that in the matter of making 
provision for education, lighting, medical assistance, housing, and water supply, 
there are any deficiencies, that was a master for negotiation with the company, 
Exts. M/75 and 76 have been produced to show the amounts spent by the com- 
pany on the facilities provided. It is not as though the company had not given 
any facilities at all. The argument on behalf of the workmen, that, because of 
the deficiencies existing, they were entitled to strike, is difficult of acceptance. 

126. Nextly, it is argued, that the contracts of certain contractors were put 
to an end to, that there were about 600 men working under the contractors, 
that these went out of employment, and that this offered provocation for the 
strike. According to the evidence of Shri Vyas about 15 or 17 commission agents 
were sent-away and along with them 600 labourers were thrown out of employ- 
ment. This took place a few days prior to 25th June 1956. The company had 
recourse to lock out as 600 labourers of the commission agents were concerned. 
The letter Ext. W/47, was sent on 24th June 1950 by the Joint Secretary, Shri 
Laxmi Narain, On 23rd June 1956, when the Conciliation Officer came to the 
mines, there was a discussion about the same. He asked the manager to give 
him an assurance in writing that the 600 men would be taken back on the 23rd 
or the next day along with the tubs, but the management did not give any such 
assurance. In answer the contention on behalf of the management is, that they 
did not unilaterally put an end to the contracts, but that the contractors them- 
selves wanted to be relieved of their obligations under the contracts because 
of the threatened strike. The above contention on behalf of the wor|kmen, 
also is of no force. The labourers of the contractors were not employees of 
the company. There was no justification for going on strike on their behalf. 
Secondly, it is quite possible that the contractors themselves were not anxious 
to carry out their contracts in view of the penal clause in their -contracts about 
forfeiture of the security deposited in case they did not fulfil the terms of their 
contracts. There is such a clause in the contracts, of which Ext. M/48 is a 
pattern. Shri Vyas says, that the commission agents told him before Ihe strike 
began, that there was a talk that their labourers also may go on strike. Ilf 
some of ihe contractors were not willing to abide by their contracts on account 
of the threatened strike and put an end to them and if their labourers were 
thrown out of employment thereby, I fail to see how the management can be 
held liable, The contention on behalf of the management is, that in spite of 
the notice givpn by the contractors about termination of their contracts, the 
company took steps to employ the labourers of the contractors. According to 
the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, 600 or 700 mazdoors were not discharged priori 
to strike. Some of the contractors gave notice of the termination of their 
contracts, stating they would not do the work but the contractors’ labour said 
that they would work till 25th June 1956. Such of the contractors’ labourers 



The gazette oe India: January 4 , ^ss/pausa 14 , 1879 [Part ii 


as were working under the contractors, who had given notice of termination 
of contracts, were told that they could do loading work, and that the company 
was willing to engage them on departmental basis. I am satisfied with the truth 
of this evidence, it is not possible to hold, that about 600 or 700 mazdoors were 
thrown out of employment prior to the strike as the result of any action on 
the part of the management. On the other hand, some of the contractors gave 
notice, that they were not willing to fulfil their contracts because of the threatened 
strike. It is on account of this action of the contractors that their men had 
to lose employment, but the company offered them employment, and, according 
to the evidence of Shri Raj Pal, the contractors’ iahour did work till abodt 
25th June 1956. According to the evidence of Champa Lai, MW 5, even after 
the strike began, he continued to work till 29th and 30th June, 1956. The work 
was then discontinued because the workmen were not permitted to reach the 
quarries and there was obstruction both by male and female strikers. 1 ' The 
contention an behalf of the workmen, that 600 or 700 men were suddenly thrown 
out of employment just a few days before the strike, and that this offered provo- 
cation to the workmen to go on strike, is unfounded and must be rejected. 

127. The next argument, that has been urged, is, that the company termi- 
nated the services of certain other workmen, who had been engaged by them, 
and that this also was a cause forcing them to strike. I have already referred 
to the fact, that no details were furnished in the statement of demands about 
the workmen, whose services are alleged to have been terminated. In any case, 
Shri Vyas reterred only to the case of the IB workmen mentioned in Ext. W/42, 
and Rahim Shah and Ghulam Shah, as the persons, whose services were termi- 
nated by the company. I have given my reasons for holding that the termi- 
nation of service of the IS persons is justified, and that the other two were 
lawfully laid off. There was a strike by the village piece workers from 11th 
June, 1956. Ext. M/200 is the notice put up by the management. Ext. M/96 
has been filed to show that between May and August, 1956 no village piece 
workers worked on mining jobs and turned up only for loading jobs. The 
evidence on behalf of the company, which I believe, also establishes, that there 
had been adoption of go slow tactics from sometime past. Ext. M/33 and the 
annexures IV to VI thereto, and Ext. M/38 have been filed in this connection. 
Ext. M/131, dated 14th June, 1956 is a copy of the letter that was sent by the 
company to the officer on special duty Messrs. Sindri-Fertilizers, stating that 
the workmen had been adopting go slow tactics ever since April 7, 1956. Ext. 
M/132 is the complaint by Sindri, dated 17th May, 1956 that the full despatches 
were not being maintained. Exts. M/133 to 136, and 139 are the letters that 
passed in this connection between the Sindri Fertilizers and the company. Ext. 
M/138 is the copy of the letter that was received from the Rajasthan Govern- 
ment accusing the company of not loading wagons for supply to Sindri, whereas 
wagons had been loaded for supplies to other cement companies. Exts. M/224 
and 225 have been produced to show the details of production and loading 5n 
wagons, and it can be seen therefrom that there was a fall. In Ext. M/33 in 
annexure 8A the company pointed out the fall in production in April owfeg 
to go slow tactics. Ext. M/231 is also important. The evidence does establish 
that the workmen resorted to go slow tactics and that the village piece workers 
went on strike from 11th May, 1956. In these circumstances, if the two labour 
mates were laid off and if some other workmen, who were temporary and whose 
services came to an end, were discharged, I am unable to hold that this cun 
serve as a justification for the strike. 

128. It is next contended, that wagons were not being supplied to piece rated 
workers. The complaint of the management was, that the workers resorted to 
undercutting which was prohibited. Exts. M/93, 94 and 96 are the documents 
relied upon. It will appear that the workers had resorted to undercutting and 
were also not giving gypsum of the purity required. The question of purity 
was all important. Sindri deducted -/6/- a ton for the first unit and -/4/- for 
the remainder. The company stood to lose if the purity was not upto the 
standard. In such circumstances, if the workers resorted to undercutting and 
did not give gypsum of the required purity, it is hardly possible to hold that 
there is any force in the complaint about non-supply of wagons, 

129. On a consideration of the entire evidence, it is clear that the reasons 

put-forward on behalf of the workmen as justifying the strike do not bear 
examination. I 

130. Again it is important* to note that attempts were being made to pursuade 
the workmen not to go on strike. The Conciliation Officers stated, that they 



-Sec. S] 

.:HE GAZE, rTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, I958/PAUSA 14, 1879 

’*73 


T 



were themselves looking into the matter, and that the strike might be post- 
poned bv two months. The Managing Director sent a telegram that he would 
himself be personally intervening in the matter. Ext. M/143 is a letter, dated 
16th June, 1166, and certain terms by way of interim relief were agreed to bei 
given by the management. That this letter was sent to the Union is clear from 
the entry in the Delivery Book, Ext. M/219. A telegram, copy of which is 
Ext. M/128 (W SA), dated 19th May, 1956, was sent to Shri Vyas by Shri Datta. 
It is explained by Shri Datta that it was sent in reply to Ext. M/141, a telegram 
of the 1 8th, but Shri Vyas has denied sending Ext. M/141, though it purports 
to have been sent by him. There is a demand therein for dismissal of Shri 
Raj Pal. There are no reasons for dis-believing the truth and genuineness of 
Ext. M/141 and it is hardly possible to hold without sufficient reason that it was 
sent by some body else in the name of Shri Vyas. Ext. M/176 and Ext. M/180 
are telegrams sent in May by the Labour Commissioner. There is no doubt 
that Shri Datta requested the workmen not to go on strike. Ext, M/46, dated 
18th June, 1956 is a communication declining to postpone the strike. There was 
also an appeal by the Conciliation Officers, who promised to look into the matter, 
vide Ext. M/231. Ext. M/36 is another lettdr advising against strike. It is 
also in evidence that adjudication was suggested to Shri Vyas, but he did not 
agree to the same. It is stated by him in his evidence, that he was averse to 
adjudication because the proceedings would be lengthened. Apparently he was 
reluctant to have adjudication because the untenability of some of the demands 
made on behalf of the workmen would be established. When conciliation pro- 
ceedings had been going on from a long time, when agreements had been arrived 
at between the parties, when effective steps had been taken by the manage- 
ment to implement the agreements, I fail to see what justification there was for 
the workers to go on strike. If there were any difficulties, they could have been 
placed before the Conciliation Officer. In fact the Chief Labour Commissioner 
suggested postponement of strike by two months to enable him to intervene in 
the matter, The workmen still persisted in going on strike. Even though it 
is recognized that strike is a legitimate weapon in the hands of the workmen 
in the interests of collective bargaining, still it is clear, that such action should 
not be adopted, except in the last resort and except when every other avenue 
of settlement by peaceful means and by negotiation fails. The tendency of work- 
men to resort to strike at the slightest pretext on account of the existence of 
fended grievances must be deplored and cannot be encouraged. More often 
than not strikes are being resorted to on account of anxiety for leadership, and 
not for advancement of the cause of true trade unionism. It Is argued by 
Dr. Parkash, that the present is an illustration of a case where a stoke was 
resorted to not for any justifiable reason, but for extraneous considerations. 
It is suggested in the course of arguments by Dr. Parkash, that the strike was 
flaunted as a lever to espouse and support the cause of Shri Manak Chand who 
was standing for election in a by-election at the time. Shri Vyas has denied 
any such suggestion. Be that as it may, I find that the strike is neither legal 
nor justified. 


131. The next contention, that has been urged on behalf of the management, 
is, that the strike was by no means peaceful, and that on the contrary violence 
was resorted to by the workmen. It is in evidence that an order under Section 

1 AA. uroc rvrnmnlrtft+n#! In mlnAn brru , 1. l . i* _• a i. 


144 was 
ment 


' " -— *^**. -»■ V AM Ui V. V mat an U1UC1 UUUU I^CLLlUll 

— in the mines. The suggestion on behalf of the manage- 
order was defied, and that Shri Vyas held a meeting in spite 


r as promulgated 

°rdci was ucucu, an u uiul Dim vyas ntHU a meeting in spire 
of the prohibitory order. A number of persons were arpested. Photographs 
were taken by the police. Exts. M/24 — 32 are the said photographs. According 
to the evidence of MW 9, Shri A. C. Bhandari the Deputy Superintendent of 
° n 2nd July 1956 In the morning strikers became defiant and defied the 
prohibitory order. They offered effective obstruction to the working of dumpers 
and the police could not take effective action. About 150 persons or more were 
arrested on 1st July, 1966. MW 14 was the Station House Officer of Jamsar 
Police Station in June and July, 1956. He was continuously visiting the mines 
during the period of strike. The strikers were peaceful for the first three days, 
but thereafter they became violent. They obstructed the passage of vehicles 

tmf r «i a * d o t u he loc °T ? n the rail track - They took out a funeral procession 

LS5*y °J Champa Lai contractor to his village in Kichya. They obstructed 
the working of dumpers and other machines in the quarries. He did not receive 
trLnS wl °L as lf ult , on workers. He arrested a few persons for having 
* nt0 t* 1 * Quarries and obstructed shovels loading the wagons. The 

the offia ° POrsobs was about 220. In cross-examination he says, that 

nrnreed^n« f ift C Il a - mpa Lal ,. was burnt - Exts, M/75 to 77 relate to criminal 
ftat th s fOPiiection. The workmen have tried to show that the strike 

s not only peaceful, but that the workers were molested. One of the workers, 



74 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 [Part IT 


Mst. Mariam, WW 3, has been examined to show, that the police put the women., 
in a truck and took them to the jungle, that they brought them back to the 
bunglow and then took them again to the police station. WW 3 says, that the 
police mal-treated her and she sustained some injury. The photographs show 
the obstruction caused to the work in progress by the strikers. There can be 
no doubt at all that the strike was not peaceful, and on the othieT hand the 
workers resorted to violence. Though there may not have been actual assaults 
on the workmen, there was obstruction to the work in progress. All work had 
to come to a stand-still. I find that the strike was not wholly peaceful. 

132. It is also contended for the management, that the strike is not bona fide. 
The decision in Rama Krishna Iron Foundry case (1954 II LLJ 372) is referred 
to. There is no doubt that the strike was launched to re-open settled demands 
and matters concluded by agreements and settlements in conciliation proceed- 
ings. 

133. It is also important to note, that the strike was against the interests of 
the economy of the country. Most of the gypsum raised was being transported 
to Sindri for use in the manufacture of fertilizer, a commodity vitally needed 
for increase of agricultural production. It is unfortunate that the workmen 
should have resorted to strike as a result of which supply to Sindri was cut off. 
In this connection reference may be made to the speech of Mr. Grewal reported 
in the Hindustan Times, dated 8th June, 1956, Ext. M/129. The oompany gave- 
a rejoinder, Ext. M/130, dated 9th June, 1956. Ext. M/141 is a telegram that 
was sent to the Hindustan Times about publication of the rejoinder. Ext. M/128 
contains the statement, that Mr. Grewal confirmed the report that the Govern- 
ment of India had been obliged to purchase 1,50,000 tons of gypsum from Pakistan. 
The letters Exts. M/132, 133, 134, 135, 136, and 139 show the urgent need of 
supplies to Sindri. Exts. M/177 to 179 are complaints from other customers. The 
strike was not only unjustified, but it affected national economy also. 

134. For all the reasons mentioned above, I am of opinion that the strike is- 
unjustified, and not bona fide. My finding on this issue is, that the strike is- 
neither legal, nor bona fide, nor justified. The workers were not also peaceful 
in the conduct of the strike. They are not entitled to wages for the strike period. 
The management are entitled to break the continuity of service, 

135. In the result, an award is passed as follows: — 

(i) Disparity in wages between men and women workers cannot be remov- 

ed, in the circumstances of this case. 

(ii) Wages of the workers shall be- as stated in paragraph 36, set out above. 

(iii) The strike in question is illegal and unjustified and not bona fide. The 

workers arc, not entitled to continuity of service, and the management 
are justified in breaking the continuity of service. The workmen- 
arc not entitled to wages for the period of strike, or to any other 
relief, in this connection. 

(iv) The claim for revision of piece rates and linking them to weight of 

gypsum put forward in this reference, only on behalf of contract 
labour, cannot be sustained, 

(v) The company will pay bonus to each of the daily rated weekly paid 

workers, who worked In the year 1953-54, at the rate of 1/12 of their 
basic earnings earned during the financial year 1953-54, provided 
such workmen had served under the oompany for a continuous period 
of not less than six calendar months in the said year. The rest of the 
' claim for bonus is rejected. 

(vi) The labourers engaged by the contractors are not entitled to claim 

any bonus from the company, 

(vii) The termination of services of the 18 -workmen mentioned in Ext. W/4£ 

is justified and they are not entitled to any relief. 

(viii) The lay off of Rahim Shah and Ghulam Shah is also justified and they- 
are not entitled to any compensation. 

(ix) There will be no order as to costs. 

(Sixty-two pages). 'I I E. Krishna Murti, 

Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

The 23rd November, 1957. ' , 

! [No. F.LRII-57-1 (7) 56. J 



75 


Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 4, 1958/PAUSA 14, 1879 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 24 th December 1967 

S.R.O. 68. — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to the 
Jhagrakhand Collieries and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication. 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal at Nagpur constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

(1) Whether the workmen of the Jhagrakhand Collieries are entitled to 

arrear over-time payment as claimed by the Chhattlsgarh Colliery 
Workers’ Federation, Chlrlmiri, from 24th September 1948; if not, 
from what date? 

(2) What categories of workmen are entitled to such payments and for what 

period? 

[No. LRII-2(40)/35.] 
A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 27 th December 1957 

SJt.O. 69. — /BDLB/AM(4)/67. — In pursuance of clause 4 of the Bombay 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1966, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri S. R. Kulkami to be a member of the Bombay Dock 
Labour Board vice Shri P. W. Khandekar, resigned, and makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. S.R.O. 2636, dated the 8th November, 1956, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading ". Members representing the Dock 
Workers” for the entry “(3) Shri P. W. Khandekar”, the entry 
“(3) Shri S. R. Kulkarnl” shall be substituted. 


[No. Fac. 170 (2) /57.] 
K. N. NAMBIAR, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 28 th December 1957 

S.R.O. 70. — The following draft of a further amendment in the Coal Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Rules, 1949, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), is published, as required by sub-section (1) 
of the said section, for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 1st February 1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 

In the said rules: — 

for sub-rule (2) of rule 5, the following shall be substituted, namely: 

“(2) Subject to sub-rule (4) of this rule, the Vice-Chairman of the. Advisory 
Committee shall be the Chairman of the Finance Sub-Committee and also of the 
Madhya Pradesh Coalfields Sub-Committee and in the case, of other Coalfields 
Sub committees, a member of the Advisory Committee concerned with the parti- 
cular coalfield shall be the Chairman of the particular Coalfield Sub-Committee 
The Vice-Chairman of the Advisory Committee shall be entitled to attend meetings 
t>f the other Coalfield Sub-Committeeis." ' ' - 

[No. MILl(22)/67.] 
S. RANGASWAMI, Under Secy. 



76 


i L. 


, 4, . /PAUSA 14. 


[Part II — Sec. 3] 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 24 th December 1957 

8.R.O. 71. — In exercisei of the powers conferred by clause (a) of section 6 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952), the Central Government hereby directs 
that the film entitled “Baby Doll 1 ’ and its trailer produced by Warner Brothers 
Pictures Inc. U.S.A,, in respect of which “A" certificate No. 516 dated the 17th 
April, 1957 and ‘U’ certificate No. 20247 dated the 29th April, 1957, respectively, 
were granted by the Central Board of Film Censors to Messrs Warner Brothers 
First National Pictures Inc., Bombay, shall be deemed to be uncertified films in the 
whole of India. 

[No. 9/37/67-FC.] 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


HOOTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAOER, GOVT. Or INDIA PRESS 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1001 



