REGISTERED No. D. 222 


^he Gazette 






PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. fi] 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA a«, igSa 



NOTICE 


The undermentioned, Gazettes 
December, i960 : — 

of India Ex raordinary 

were published upto the 7th 

Issue 

No. 

No. and diite 

Issued by 

Subject 

247 

S. 0 . 2913, dated 2nd 
December, i960. 

Ministry of Finance 

The President constituting a 
Finance Commission. 

248 

S. O. 2914, dated 3rd 
December, i960. 

Ministry of Infor- 
mation and Broad- 
casting. 

Approval of film specified 
therein. 

-249 

S. 0 , 2915, dated 3rd 
December, i960. 

Ministry of Finance. 

The Finance Commission (Salar- 
ies and Allowances) Amendment 
Rules, i960. 

250 

S. O. 2916, dated 5th 
December, r96o. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

List of contesting candidates in 
the election to the House of the 
People from the Rae Bareli 
Parliamentary Constituency. 

251 

S. O. 2993, dattd 6th 
December, i960. 

Ministry of Food and 
Agricul ure. 

Direction that powers in relation 
to prices, stocks and transport of 
cattle fodder specified therein 
shall also be exercisable by the 
Government of Rajasthan. 

252 

S. O. 2994, dated 7th 
December, i960. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Amendment to S.O. 2149, dated 
26th September, 1959. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 


( 3493 ) 



3494 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi-11, the 13 th December 1960 


S.O. 2996.— In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3(b) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Shri Krishna Singh, grandson of the ruler of Sitamau for 
the purposes of that entry and directs that the exemption shall be valid in respect 
of one gun7rifle and one pistol/revolver. 


[No. 16/19/60-P. IV. J 


C. P. S. MENON, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


(Department of Expenditure) 


New Delhi-2, the 2nd December I960 


S.O. 2991. — In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958 (publish- 
ed as S. O. 2614 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December, 1953) , name- 
ly: - 


Amendment No, 79 


In the said Rules, the existing entry in column 4 against item No. 10 of the 
Annexurc to Schedule V, may be substituted by the following:- — 


"In all cases except those mentioned below, the land required for Govern- 
ment use shall be acquired with the previous consent of the Ministry 
of Works Housing and Supply or subject of such order as that 
Ministry may issue from time to time:- — 


(a) The Department of Communications and Civil Aviation may acquire 
land required for works under its control. 


(b) Administrators may acquire land provided Ihe cost thereof is in- 
cluded in a scheme and the total expenditure on the scheme is with- 
in the powers of sanction of the Administrators, Such acquisition 




Sec, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 345,5 


would be subject to the association with the proposal of the local 
Public Works authorities who would certify the requirements of 
land as reasonable”. 


[No. P, 12 (41) -E. IX (A) /60.] 


New Delhi- 2, the 3rd December 1960 


S.O. 2998. — In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958, (publish- 
ed as S. O. 2614 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December, 1958) namely: — 


Amendment No. 80 


The folowing words occurring in sub-clause (f) of rule 9(1) [as inserted by 
this Ministry's Notification No. F. 12(70) -E. II(A') /6Q dated the 2nd August, 1960] 
shall be deleted: — 


"or funds have been specifically included in the budget for the purpose”. 


[No, F, 12(97) -E. 11(A) /60.] 
C. R. KRISHNAMURTHI, Dy, Secy. 


(Department of Expenditure) 


New Delhi-2, the &th December 1960 


S.O. 2999. — In pursuance of clause (3) of article 77 of the Constitution and of 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the President is pleased to make the 
following amendment in the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958 (publish- 
ed as S. O. 2014 in the Gazette of India dated the 20th December, 1958j namely: — 


Amendment No. 81. 


I. In Schedule I to the Rules, the entry 'Master, Assay Department and 
Silver Refinery, Calcutta’ at Serial No. 4 under “D-Ministry of 
Finance (Economic Affairs Department)” may be deleted: — 


II. In this Ministry’s notification No. 19 (18) -Eli (A) /GO, dated the 18th Octo- 
ber, 1980 (Amendment No. 73) the date of effect viz. ‘‘4th October, 
1960" may be substituted by “8th September, 1960”. 


[No. F. 19(18) -EII(A)/60.] 


C. P. MITTAL, Under Secy. 



3496 the gazette of india : December 17, 1960/agrahayana 2a, isss [Part n 


(Department of Expenditure) 

(Establishment Division) 

New Delhi, the 1st December 1900 

S O. 3000. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution, and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf, the President, after consultation with the Comptroller and 
Auditor-General in respect of persons employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 

Short Title and Definitions 

1. Short title and commencement. — (a) These rules may be called the General 
Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960. 

(b’) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st April, 1900. 

2. Definitions. — (1) In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) Account Officer means such officer as may be appointed in this behalf 

by the Comptroller and Auditor General, or the Pay and Accounts 
Officer where a separate Pay and Accounts Office exists except that 
In relation to Class IY employees the head of his office or the Pay 
and Accounts Officer, as the case may be, shall be the Account 
Officer. 

(b) Save as otherwise expressly provided emoluments means pay, leave 

salary or subsistence grant as defined in the Fundamental Rules, and 
includes dearness pay appropriate to pay, leave salary or subsistence 
grant, if admissible, and any remuneration of the nature of pay 
received in respect of foreign service. 

(c) Family means — 

(i‘) in the case of a male subscriber, the wife or wives and children of 
a subscriber, and the widow, or widows, and children of a deceas- 
ed son of the subscriber; provided that if a subscriber proves that 
his wife has been judicially separated from him or has ceased 
under the customary law of the community to which she belongs 
to be entitled to maintenance she shall henceforth be deemed to 
be no longer a member of the subscriber’s family in matters to 
which these rules relate unless the subscriber subsequently inti- 
mates in writing to the Account Officer that she shall continue 
to be so regarded; 

(ii) in the case of a female subscriber, the husband and children of a 
subscriber, and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 
son of a subscriber: provided that if a subscriber by notice in 
writing to the Account Officer expresses her desire to exclude 
her husband from her family, the husband shall henceforth be 
deemed to be no longer a member of the subscriber’s family In 
matters to which these rules relate, unless the subscriber subse- 
quently cancels such notice In writing. 

Noth. — Child meana a legitimate child and includes an adopted child, 
where adoption is recognised by the personal law governing the 
subscriber. 

(d) Fund means the General Provident Fund. 

(e) Leave means any variety of leave recognised by the Fundamental 

Rules or the Civil Service Regulations or the Revised Leave Rules, 
1933. 

(f) Year means a financial year. 

(2) Any other expression used in these rules which is defined either In the 
Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), or in the Fundamental Rules is used 
in the sense therein defined. 

(3) Nothing in these rules shall be deemed to have the effect of terminat- 
ing the existence of the General Provident Fund as heretofore existing or of 
constituting any new Fund. 



Se< 3 . 5 (11)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19fiO/AGRAHAl'ANA 20, 1882 3497 


Constitution of the Fund 

3. Constitution of the Fund. — (1) The Fund shall be maintained in rupees. 

(2) All sums paid into the Fund under these rules shall be credited in the 
books of Government to an account named "The General Provident Fund”. 
Sums of which payment has not been taken within six months after they become 
payable under these rules shall be transferred to "Deposits” at the end of the 
year and treated under the ordinary rules relating to deposits. 

4. Conditions of eligibility. — All temporary Government servants, other than 
re-employed pensioners, after a continuous service of one year and all perma- 
nent Government servants shall subscribe to the Fund: 

Provided that no such servant as has been required or permitted to subscribe 
to a contributory provident fund shall be eligible to join or continue as a sub- 
scriber to the Fund, while he retains his right to subscribe to such a fund. 

Note. — Apprentices and Probationers shall be treated as temporary Govern- 
ment servants for the purpose of this rule. 

Nominations 

5. Nominations. — (1) A subscriber shall at the time of joining the Fund, 
send to the Account Officer, a nomination conferring on one or more persons 
the right to receive the amount that may stand to nis credit in the Fund, in 
the event of his death, before that amount has become payable or having become 
payable has not been paid: 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination, the subscriber has a 
family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other 
than the members of his family: 

Provided further that the nomination made by the subscriber in respect of 
any other provident fund to which he was subscribing before Joining the Fund 
shall, if the amount to his credit in such other fund has been transferred to 
his credit in the Fund, be deemed to be a nomination duly made under this 
rule until he makes a nomination in accordance with this rule. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under sub-rule (1), 
he shall specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the 
nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand 
to his credit in the Fund at any time. 

(3) Every nomination shall be in 3uch one of the Forms set forth in the 
First Schedule as is appropriate in the circumstances. 

(4) A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice 
in writing to the Account Officer. The subscriber shall, along with such notice 
or separately, send a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions 
of this rule. 

(S') A subscriber may provide in a nomination— 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee, that in the event of his pre- 
deceasing the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee snail 
pass to such other person or persons as may be specified in the 
nomination, provided that such other person or persons shall, if the 
subscriber has other members of his family, be such other member 
or members. Where the subscriber confers such a right on more 
than one person under this clause, he shall specify the amount or 
share payable to each of such persons in such a manner as to cover 
the whole of the amount payable to the nominee. 

(bl that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happen- 
ing of a contingency specified therein: 

Provided that if at the time of making the nomination the subscriber has no 
family, he shall provide in the nomination that It shall become invalid 
in the event of his subsequently acquiring a family: 

Provided further that if at the time of making the nomination the sub- 
scriber has only one member of the family, he shall provide in the 
nomination that the right conferred upon the alternate nominee under 
clause (a) shall become Invalid in the event of his subsequently 
acquiring other member or members In his family. 



3498 THE gazette of india : December 17 , 1960/agrahayana 26, 1882 [Part 11 

(6) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under clause (a 1 ) of sub-rule (5) or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes 
invalid in pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (5) or the proviso thereto, the 
subscriber shall send to the Account Officer a notice in writing cancelling the 
nomination, together with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provi- 
sions of this rule. 

(7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given, by a 
subscriber shall, to the extent that It is valid, take effect on the date on which 
it is received by the Account Officer. 

Subscriber’s Accounts 

0. Subscriber’s account. — An account shall be prepared in the name of each 
subscriber and shall show the amount of his subscriptions with interest thereon 
calculated as prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 11 as well as advances and with- 
drawals from the Fund, 

Conditions and Rates of Subscriptions 

7. Conditions of subscriptions. — (1) A subscriber shall subscribe monthly to 
the Fund except during the period when he is under suspension: 

Provided that a subscriber may, at his option, not subscribe during any 
period of leave, other than leave on average pay or earned leave of less than 
one month or 30 days’ duration, as the case may be: 

Provided further that a subscriber on reinstatement after a period passed 
under suspension shall be allowed the option of paying in one sum, or in instal- 
ments, any sum not exceeding the maximum amount of arrear subscriptions pay- 
able for that period. 

Nora. — Class III and Class IV employees of the Survey of India who are sent 
on departmental leave need not subscribe to the Fund, during the period of such 
leave. 

(2) The subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during leave in 
the following manner: — 

(a ') if he is an officer who draws his own pay bills, by making no deduc- 
tion on account of subscription in his flrst pay bill drawn after 
proceeding on leave; 

(b) if he is not an officer who draws his own pay bills, by written com- 
munication to the head of his office before he proceeds on leave. 
Failure to make due and timely intimation shall be deemed to con- 
stitute an election to subscribe. 

The option of a subscriber intimated under this sub-rule shall be final. 

(3) A subscriber who has, under rule 32 withdrawn the amount standing to 
his credit in the Fund shall not subscribe to the Fund after such withdrawal unless 
he returns to duty. 

8. Rates of subscription.— (1) The amount of subscription shall be fixed by 
the subscriber himself, subject to the following conditions, namely; — 

(a'l It shall he expressed in whole rupees. 

(b) It may be any sum, so expressed, not less than 0 per cent of his emolu- 

ments and not more than his total emoluments; 

Provided that in the case of a subscriber who has previously been subscrib- 
ing to a Government Contributory Provident Fund at the higher rate 
of 8 1/3 per cent, it may be any sum, so expressed, not less than 
8 1/3 per cent of his emoluments and not more than his total emolu- 
ments: 

Provided further that in the case of Class IV employees the minimum rate 
of subscription shall be Rs. 4/- a month in the case of those draw- 
ing a pay of less than Rs, 75/- a month and Rs. 5/- a month in the 
case of others, 

(c) When a Government servant elects to subscribe at the minimum rate 

of 0 per cent or 8 1/3 per cent, as the case may be the fraction of 
a rupee will be rounded to the nearest whole rupee, 50 nP. counting 
as the next higher rupee. 



fee, 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3499 


(2) For the purpose of sub-rule (1) the emoluments of a subsriber shall be- 
ta) in the case of a subscriber who was in Government service on the 

31st March of the preceding year, the emoluments to which he was 
entitled on that date: 

Provided that — ■ 

(i) if the subscriber was on leave on the said date and elected not to 

subscribe during such leave or was under suspension on the said 
date, his emoluments shall be the emoluments to which he was 
entitled on the first day after his return to duty; 

(ii) if the subscriber was on deputation out of India on the said date 

or was on leave on the said date and continues to be on leave 
and has elected to subscribe during such leave, his emoluments 
shall be the emoluments to which he would have been entitled had 
he been on duty in India; 

(b) In the case of a subscriber who was not in Government service on the 
31st March of the preceding year, the emoluments to which he was 
entitled on the day he joins the Fund. 

(3) The subscriber shall Intimate the fixation of the amount of his monthly 
subscription in each year in the following manner: — 

(a) If he was on duty on the 31st March of the preceding year, by the 

deduction which he makes in this behalf from his pay bill for that 
month; 

(b) If he was on leave on the 31st March of the preceding year, and elect- 

ed no: to subscribe during such leave, or was under suspension on 
that date, by the deduction which he makes in this behalf from his 
first pay bill after his return to duty; 

(c) If he has entered Government service for the first time during the 

year, by the deduction which he makes in this behalf, from his pay 
bill for the month during which he joins the Fund; 

(d) If he was on leave on the 31st March of the preceding year, and con- 

tinues to be on leave and has elected to subscribe during such leave, 
by the deduction which he causes to be made in this behalf from 
his salary bill for that month; 

(e) If he was on foreign service on the 31st March of the preceding year, 

by the amount credited by him into the treasury on account of sub- 
scription for the month of April in the current year. 

(4) The amount of subscription so fixed may be enhanced or reduced once 
«t any time during the course of a year: 

Provided that when the amount of subscription is so reduced, it shall not be 
less than the minimum prescribed in sub-rule (1): 

Provided further that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of a month and 
on leave for the remainder of that month and if he has elected not to subscribe 
during leave, the amount of the subscription payable shall be proportionate to 
the number of days spent on duty in the month. 

9. Transfer to foreign service or deputation out of India. — When a subscriber 
is transferred to foreign service or sent on deputation out of India, he shall 
remain subject to the rules of the Fund in the same manner as if he were not 
so transferred or sent on deputation. 

Realisation of Subscriptions 

10. Realisation of subscription.— (1) When emoluments are drawn from a 
Government treasury in India or from an authorised office of disbursement out- 
side India, recovery of subscriptions on account of these emoluments and of the 
principal and interest of advances shall be made from the emoluments them- 
selves. 

(2) When emoluments are drawn from any other source the subscriber shall 
forward his dues monthly to the Account Officer. 

(3) If a subscriber falls to subscribe with effect from the date on which he 
is required to join the Fund or is in default in any month or months during the 
course of a year otherwise than as provided In rule 7, the total amount due to 



3500 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


the Fund, on account of arrears of subscription shall, with interest thereon at 
the rate provided in rule 11, forthwith be paid by the subscriber to the Fund 
or in default be ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction 
from the emoluments of the subscriber by instalments or otherwise, as may be 
directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of 
which special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12: 

Provided that the subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest 
shall not be required to pay any interest. 

Interest 

11. Interest. — (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (5), Government shall 
pay to the credit of the account of a subscriber interest at such rate as may be 
determined for each year according to the method of calculation prescribed from 
time to time by the Government of India: 

Provided that, if the rate of interest determined for a year is less than 4 per 
cent, all subscribers to the Fund in the year preceding that for which the rate 
has for the first time been fixed at less than 4 per cent, shall be allowed interest 
at 4 per cent: 

Provided further that a subscriber who was previously subscribing to any 
other provident fund of the Central Government and whose subscriptions, together 
with Interest thereon, have been transferred to his credit in tins Fund under 
rule 35, shall also be allowed Interest at 4 per cent, if he had been receiving 
that rate of interest under the rules of such other Fund under a provision similar 
to that of the first proviso to this rule. 

(2) Interest shall be credited with effect from la3t day in each year in the 

following manner: — ! 

(i) on the amount to the credit of a subscribe! On the last day of the 
preceding year, less any sums withdrawn during the current year — 

interest for twelve months; 

(II) on sums withdrawn during the current year — interest from the begin- 

ning of the current year up to the last day of the month preceding 
the month of withdrawal; 

(III) on all sums credited to the subscriber’s account after the last day of 

the preceding year— interest from the date of deposit up to the end 
of the current year; 

(iv) the total amount of interest shall be rounded to the nearest whole 
rupee, (fifty naye palse counting as the next Higher rupee); 

Provided that when the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has 
become payable, interest shall thereupon be credited under this rule 
in respect only of the period from the beginning of the current year 
or from the date of deposit, as the case may be, up to the date on 
which the amount standing to the credit of the subscriber became 
payable. 

(3) In this rule, the date of deposit shall in the case of a recovery from emolu- 
ments be deemed to be the first day of the month in which it is recovered, and 
In the case of an amount forwarded by the subscriber, shall be deemed to be the 
first day of the month of receipt, if it is received by the Account Officer before 
the fifth day of that month, but if It is received on or after the fifth day of that 
month, the first day of the next succeeding month: 

Provided that where there has been a delay In the drawal of pay or leave 
salary and allowances of a subscriber and consequently the recovery of his 
subscription towards the Fund, the interest on such subscriptions shall 
be payable from the month in which the pay or leave salary of the subscriber 
was due under the rules, Irrespective of the month in which it was actually 
drawn. 

(4) In addition to any amount to be paid under rules 31, 32 or 33 interest 
thereon up to the end of the month preceding that in which the payment is 
made, or up to the end of the sixth month after the month in which such amount 
became payable whichever of these periods be less, shall be payable to the person 
to whom such amount Is to be paid: 

Provided that where the Account Officer has intimated to that person (or 
his agent) a date on which he is prepared to make payment in cash, or has posted 
a cheque in payment to that person, interest shall be payable only up to the end 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMRER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 g^or 


of the month preceding the date so intimated, or the date of posting the cheque,. 
as the case may be. 

(5) Interest shall not be credited to the account of a subscriber if he informs 
the Account Officer that he does not wish to receive it; but if he subsequently 
asks for interest, it shall be credited with effect from the first day of the year 
in which he asks for it. 

(6) The interest on amounts which under sub-rule (3) of rule 10, sub-rule 
(5) of rule 13, sub-rule (3) of rule 20, sub-rule (4) of rule 22, sub-rule (1) of 
rule 24, sub-rule (1) or (2) of rule 25, rule 31, or rule 32 are replaced to the 
credit of the subscriber in the Fund, shall be calculated at such rates as may be 
successively prescribed under sub-rule (1) of this rule and so far as may be 
in the manner described In this rule. 

Advances from the Fund 

12. Advance from the Fond. — (1) The appropriate sanctioning authority may 
sanction the payment to any subscriber of an advance consisting of a sum of 
whole rupees and not exceeding in amount three months’ pay or half the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund, whichever is less, for one or more of the 
following purposes: — 

(a) to pay expenses in connection with the illness or a disability, includ- 

ing where necessary, the travelling expenses of the subscriber or 
any person actually dependent on him; 

(b) to meet the cost of higher education, including where necessary, the 

travelling expenses of the subscriber or any person actually depen- 
dent on pim in the following cases, namely: — 

(1) for education outside India for an academic, technical, professional 
or vocational course beyond the High School stage and 

(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 
In India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course 
of study is for not less than three years; 

(c) to pay obligatory expenses on a scale appropriate to the status which 

by customary usage the subscriber has to incur in connection with 
marriages or other ceremonies of himself or of his children or of 
any other person actually dependent on him: 

Provided that the condition of actual dependence shall not apply in the 
case of a son or daughter of the subscriber; 

(d) to meet the cost of legal proceedings instituted by the subscriber for 

vindicating his position in regard to any allegations made against 
him in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him 
in the discharge of his official duty, the advance in this case being 
available in addition to any advance admissible for the same purpose 
from any other Government source: 

Provided that the advance under this sub-clause shall not be admissible to 
a subscriber who institutes legal proceedings in any court of law 
either in respect of any matter unconnected with his official duty 
or against Government in respect of any condition of service or 
penalty imposed on him; 

(e) to meet the cost of his defence where the subscriber is prosecuted 

by Government in any court of law or where the subscriber engages 
a legal practitioner to defend himself in an enquiry in respect of 
any alleged official misconduct on hia part. 

(2) An advance shall not, except for special reasons to be recorded in writing 
be granted to any subscriber In excess of the limit laid down in sub-rule (1) or 
until repayment of the last instalment of any previous advance, 

Note 1. — For the purpose of this rule, pay includes dearness pay, where 
admissible. 

Note 2. — The appropriate sanctioning authority for the purpose of this rule 
Is specified in the Fifth Schedule. 



3502 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19G0/AGRAHAYANA 29, 1882 [Part II 


13, Recovery of advances. — (1) An advance shall be recovered from the sub* 
ecriber in such number of equal monthly instalments as the sanctioning authority 
may direct; but such number shall not b? less than twelve unless the subscriber 
go elects and more than twenty-four. In special cases where the amount of 
advance exceeds three months’ pay of the subscriber under sub-rule (2) of rule 
12, the sanctioning authority may fix such number of instalments to be more than 
twenty-four but in no case more than thirty-six, A subscriber may, at his option, 
repay more than one instalment in a month, Each instalment shall be a number 
of whole rupees, the amount of the advance being raised or reduced, if necessary, 
to admit of the fixation of such instalments. 

(2) Recovery shall be made in the manner prescribed in rule 10 for the realisa- 
tion of subscriptions, and shall commence, on the first occasion after the advance 
is made on which the subscriber draws pay, or remuneration on foreign service, 
for a full month. Recovery shall not bo made, except with the subscribers’ con- 
sent while he is on leave or in receipt of subsistence grant and may be postponed, 
'On the subscriber’s written request, by the sanctioning authority during the 
recovery of an advance of pay granted to the subscriber. 

(31 If more than one advance has been made to a subscriber, each advance 
shall be treated separately for the purpose of recovery. 

(4) (a) After the principal of tho advance has been fully repaid, interest shall 
be paid thereon at the rate of one-flfth per cent of the principal for each month 
or broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and complete 
repayment of the principal: 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay into the Fund any additional instalments on account of 
interest on advances granted to them from the fund. 

(b) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in one instalment in the month after 
complete repayment of the principal; but if the period referred to in clause (a) 
-exceeds twenty months, interest may, if the subscriber so desires, be recovered 
in two equal monthly instalments. The method of recovery shall be that pres- 
cribed in sub-rule (2). Payments shall be rounded to the nearest rupee in the 
manner prescribed in clause (iv) of sub-rule (2) of rule 11. 

(5) If an advance has been granted to a subscriber and drawn by him and 
the advance is subsequently disallowed before repayment is completed, the whole 
or balance of the amount withdrawn shall, with interest at the rate provided 
in rule 11, forthwith be repaid by the subscriber to the Fund, or in default, be 
ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction from the emolu- 
ments of the subscriber in a lump sum or in monthly instalments not exceeding 
twelve as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance for 
the grant of which, special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12: 

Provided that subscribers whose deposits in the Fund carry no interest shall 
not be required to pay any interest. 

(6) Recoveries made under this rule shall be credited as they arc made to 
the subscriber’s account in the Fund. 

14. Wrongful use of advance.— Notwithstanding anything contained in these 
rules, if the sanctioning authority is satisfied that money drawn as an advance 
from the Fund under rule 12 has been utilised for a purpose other than that for 
which sanction was given to the drawal of the money, the amount in question, 
shall with interest at the rate provided in rule 11 forthwith bo repaid by the 
subscriber to the Fund, or in default, be ordered to be recovered by deduction in 
one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber even if he be on leave. If the 
total amount to be repaid be more than half the subscriber’s emoluments 
recoveries shall be made in monthly instalments of moities of his emoluments 
till the entire amount is repaid by him. 

Note.— T he term ‘emoluments’ in this rule does not include subsistence grant. 

Withdrawals from, the Fund 

16. Withdrawal from the Fund.— (1) Subject to the conditions specified therein 
withdrawals may be sanctioned by the authorities competent to sanction an 
advance for special reasons under sub-rule (2) of rule 12, at any time after the 
■completion of twenty five years of service (including broken periods of service, 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, I960/AGRAHAYANA 2G, 1882 3503 

it any) of a subscriber or within five years before the date of his retirement on 
superannuation, whichever is earlier, from the amount standing to his credit in 
ihe Fund, for one or more of the following purposes, namely:— 

(a) Meeting the cost of higher education, including where necessary, the 

travelling expenses of any child of the subscriber in the following 
cases, namely: — 

(i) for education outside India for academic, technical, professional or 

vocational course beyond the High School stage, and 

(ii) for any medical, engineering or other technical or specialised course 

in India beyond the High School stage, provided that the course of 
study is for not less than three years, 

(b) Meeting the expenditure in connection with the marriage of the sub- 

scriber’s sons or daughters and if he has no daughter, of any other 
female relation dependent on him. 

(c) Meeting the expenses in connection with the illness, including where 

necessary, the travelling expenses, of the subscriber or any person 
actually dependent on him, 

(d) Building or acquiring a suitable house for his rasidence including the 

cost of the site or repaying any outstanding amount on account of 
loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of receipt of 
the application for withdrawal but not earlier than twelve months 
of that date, or reconstructing, or making additions or alterations to 
a house already owned or acquired by a subscriber, 

(e) Purchasing a house-site or repaying any outstanding amount on 

account of loan expressly taken for this purpose before the date of 
receipt of the application for the withdrawal but not earlier than 
twelve months of that date. 

(f) For constructing a house on a site purchased utilising the sum withdrawn 

under clause (e): 

Provided that a subscriber who has availed himself of an advance under the 
Scheme of the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply, for the grant 
of advances for house-building purpose, or has been allowed any 
assistance in this regard from any other Government source, shall 
not be eligible for the grant of final withdrawal under clause (d), 
(e) and (f) except for the express purpose of repayment of any loan 
taken under the aforesaid scheme. 

(2) The actual withdrawal from the Fund shall be made only on receipt of an 
authorisation from the Account Officer concerned who will arrange this as soon 
as the formal sanction of the sanctioning authority has been issued. 

16. Conditions for withdrawal. — (1) Any sum withdrawn by a subscriber at 
any one time for one or more of the purposes specified in rule 15 from the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund shall not ordinarily exceed one-half of such 
amount or six months’ pay, whichever is less. The sanctioning authority may, 
however, sanction the withdrawal of an amount in excess of this limit up to 
3/4ths of the balance at his credit in the Fund having due regard to (i) the object 
for which the withdrawal is being made (ii) the status of the subscriber and (iii) 
the amount to his credit in the Fund, 

(2) A subscriber who has been permitted to withdraw money from the Fund 
under rule 15 shall satisfy the sanctioning authority within a reasonable period 
as may be specified by that authority that the money has been utilised for the 
purpose for which it was withdrawn, and if he falls to do so, the whole of the 
sum so withdrawn, or so much thereof as has not been applied for the purpose for 
which it was withdrawn shall forthwith be repaid in one lump sum together with 
interest thereon at the rate determined under rule 11 by the subscriber to the 
Fund, and in default of such payment. It shall be ordered by the sanctioning 
authority to be recovered from his emoluments either in a lump sum or in such 
number of monthly instalments, as may be determined by the President, 

(3) Nothing in sub-rule (2) shall be deemed to require a subscriber whose 
deposits in the Fund carry no interest, to pay any interest on any sum repayable 
by him under that sub-rule. 



3504 THE gazette of India : December 17 , 1960/agrahayana 20, isea [Part n 
Payment towards Insurance Policies and Family Pension Funds 


17. Payment towards Insurance Policies. — Subject to the conditions herein- 
after contained in rules 18 to 28: — 

(a) (i) subscriptions to a family pension fund approved in this behalf by 

the President; or 

(ii) payments towards a policy of life insurance, 
may, at the option of a subscriber, be substituted in whole or part for 
subscriptions due to the Fund; 

(b) the amount of subscriptions with interest thereon standing to the 

credit of a subscriber in the Fund may be withdrawn to meet — 

(i) a payment towards a policy of life insuranco; 

(ii) the purchase of a single payment insurance policy; 

(iii) the payment of a single premium or subscriptions to a family pension 

fund approved in this behalf by the President: 

Provided that no amount shall be withdrawn (1) before the details of the 
proposed policy have been submitted to the Account Officer and accepted by him 
%s suitable or (2) to meet any payment or purchase made or effected more than 
three months before the withdrawal, or (3) in excess of the amount required to 
meet a premium or subscription actually due for payment within three months of 
the date of withdrawal: 

Provided further that payments towards an educational endowment policy 
may not be substituted for subscriptions to the Fund and that no amounts may 
be withdrawn to meet any payment or purchase in respect of such a policy If 
fthat policy is due for payment in whole or part before the subscriber’s age of 
normal superannuation: 

Provided further that amounts withdrawn shall be rounded to the nearest 


whole rupee. 

18 Number of policies that can be financed from the Fund.— (1) The number 
of policies in respect of which substitution for subscriptions due to the Fund or 
withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund may be permitted under rule 17, shall 
not exceed four: 

Provided that where immediately before the 22nd June, 1953, substitution for 
'subscription due to the Fund or withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund, was 
permitted in respect «f more than four policies, such substitution or withdrawal 
shall continue to be permitted in respect of those policies. 

(2) The premium for a policy [including any policy referred to in the proviso 
to sub-rule (1)] in respect of which withdrawal of subscriptions from the Fund 
may be permitted under rule 17 shall not be payable otherwise than annually. 

Explanation.— In computing the maximum number of policies specified in sub- 
rule (1), policies which have matured or have been converted into paid up policies 
shall be excluded. 


19 Payment of difference between substituted payments and minimum sub- 
scriptions— (1) If the total amount of any subscriptions or payments substituted 
under clause (a) of rule 17 is less than the amount of the minimum subscription 
payable to the Fund under sub-rule (1) of rule 8, the difference shall be rounded 
to ‘the nearest rupee in the manner provided in clause (iv) of sub-rule (2) of rule 
11 and paid by the subscriber as a subscription to the Fund. 

(2) If the subscriber withdraws any amount standing to his credit in the Fund 
lor any of the purposes specified in clause (b) of rule 17, he shall, subject to his 
option under clause (a) of that rule, continue to pay to the Fund the subscription 
payable under rule 8, 

20. Reduction of subscription in certain cases.— (1) A subscriber who desires 
•to substitute a subscription or payment under clause (a) of rule 17, may reduce 
his subscription to the Fund accordingly: 


Provided that the subscriber shall — 

(a) intimate to the Account Officer on his pay bill or by letter the fact of, 

and reason for, the reduction; 

(b) send to the Account Officer, within such period as the Account Officer 

may require receipts or certified copies of receipts in order to satisfy 
the Account Officer that the amount by which the subscription has 
been reduced was duly applied for the purposes specified in clause (a) 
of rule 17. 



Sec, 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGR AHAYAN A 26, 1882 3505 


(2) A subscriber who desires to withdraw any amount under clause (b) of 
rule 17 shall — 

(a) intimate the reason for the withdrawal to the Account Officer by letter; 

(b) make arrangements with the Account Officer for the withdrawal; 

(c) send to the Account Officer, within such period as the Account Officer 

may require, receipts or certified copies of receipts in order to satisfy 
the Account Officer, that the amount withdrawn was duly applied for 
the purposes specified in clause (b) of rule 17, 

(3) The Account Officer shall order the recovery of any amount by which 
subscriptions have been reduced, or of any amount withdrawn, in respect of 
which he has not been satisfied in the manner required by clause (b) of sub-rule 
{1) and clause (c) of sub -rule (2), with interest thereon at the rate provided in 
rule 11 from the emoluments of the subscriber and place it to the credit of the 
subscriber in the Fund, 

21. Government not to make payments to insurer on behalf of subscribers. — 

11) Government shall not make any payments on behalf of subscribers to Insurance 
Companies nor take steps to keep a policy alive. 

(2) A policy to be acceptable under these rules shall be one effected by the 
subscriber himself on his own life, and shall (unless it is a policy effected by a 
male subscriber which is expressed on the face of it to be for the benefit of his 
wife, or of his wife and children, or any of them) be such as may be legally 
assigned by the subscriber to the President. 

Explanation 1 . — -A policy on the joint lives of the subscriber and the sub- 
scriber’s wife or husband shall be deemed to be a policy on the life of the 
subscriber for the purpose of this sub-rule. 

Explanation 2.— A policy which has been assigned to the subscriber’s wife 
shall not be accepted unless either the policy is first re-assigned to the subscriber 
or the subscriber and his wife both join in an appropriate assignment. 

(3) The policy may not be effected for the benefit of any beneficiary other than 
the wife or husband of the subscriber or the wife or husband and children of 
the subscriber or any of them; 

Provided that subscribers who took out policies under Note 1 of Rule 21 (ii) or 
under clause (b) or (c) of Rule 21 A of the Rules in force prior to the 1st April, 
1934 shall remain subject to the provisions of those rules in so far as policies 
so taken out are concerned. 

22. Assignment of Policies. — (1) The policy within six months after the first 
withholding of a subscription or withdrawal from the Fund in respect of the 
policy; or in the case of an insurance company whose headquarters are outside 
India, within such further period as the Account Officer, if he is satisfied by the 
production of the completion certificate (Interim receipt), may fix, shall— 

(a) unless it is a policy effected by a male subscriber which is expressed on 

the face of it to be for the benefit of the wife of the subscriber, or 
of his wife and children, or any of them, be assigned to the President 
as security for the payment of any sum which may become payable 
to the Fund under rule 27, and delivered to the Account Officer, the 
assignment being made by endorsement on the policy in Form (1) 
or Form (2) or Form (3) of the Forms in the Second Schedule 
according as the policy is on the life of the subscriber or on the joint 
lives of the subscriber and the subscriber’s wife or husband or the 
policy has previously been assigned to the subscriber’s wife; 

(b) if it is a policy effected by a male subscriber which is expressed on the 

face of it to be for the benefit of the wife of the subscriber, or of his 
wife and children or any of them, be delivered to the Account Officer. 

(2) The Account Officer shall satisfy himself by reference to the Insurance 
Company where possible, that no prior assignment of the policy exists. 

(3) Once a policy has been accepted by an Account Officer for the purpose of 
being financed from the Fund the terms of the policy shall not be altered nor 
shall the policy be exchanged for another policy without the prior consent of the 
Account Officer to whom details of the alteration or of the new policy shall be 
furnished, 

(4) If the policy is not assigned and delivered, or delivered, within the said 
period of six months or such further period as the Account Officer may, under 
sub-rule (1), have fixed, any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund in 
respect of the policy shall, with interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 11, 



3506 HiE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Paat H 


forthwith be paid or repaid, as the case may be, by the subscriber to the Fund, or, 
in default be ordered by the Account Officer to be recovered by deduction from 
the! emoluments of the subscriber, by instalments or otherwise, ^ may be 
directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which 
special reasons are required, under sub-rule (2) of rule 12. 

(5) Notice of assignment of the policy shall be given by the subscriber to the 
Insurance Company, and the acknowledgment of the notice by the Insurance 
Company shall be sent to the Account Officer within three months of the date of 
assignment. 

Note 1. — Subscribers are advised to send notice of the assignment to the 
Insurance Company in duplicate, accompanied in cases in which the notice haa 
to be sent to a company in Great Britain or Ireland, by a remittance of five 
shillings, which is the fee for the acknowledgment authorised by the Policies of 
Assurance Act, 1867. 

Note 2. — Subscribers who proceed to Great Britain or Ireland on quitting the 
service are advised that under the English Stamp Law assignments or re-assign- 
ments are required to be stamped within 30 days of their first arrival in those 
countries. Otherwise penalty will be incurred under the Stamp Act, and 
difficulties may arise when the policy matures for payment. 

23. Bonus on Policies. — The subscriber shall not during the currency of the 
policy draw any bonus the drawal of which during such currency is optional under 
the terms of the policy, and the amount of any bonus which under the terms of 
the policy the subscriber has no option, tq refrain from drawing during its currency 
shall be paid forthwith into the Fund by the subscriber or in default recovered by 
deduction from his emoluments by instalments or otherwise as may be directed 
by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of which, special 
reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12. 

24. Reassignment of Policies. — (1) Save as provided by Rule 28 when the 
subscriber — 

(a) quits the service; or 

(h) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retirenv nt and applies to the 
Account Officer for reassignment or return of the policy; or 

(cl while on leave has been permitted to retire or declared by a competent 
medical authority to be unfit for further service and applies to the 
Account Officer for reassignment or return of the policy; or 

(d) pays or repays to the Fund the whole of any amount withheld or with- 
drawn from the Fund for any of the purposes mentioned in sub- 
clause (ii) of clause (a) of rule 17 and sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
clause (b) of rule 17 with interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 
11, the Account Officer shall — 

(i) if the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 22, or 
under the corresponding rule heretofore in force reassign the policy 
in Form I in the Third Schedule to the subscriber, or to the sub- 
scriber and the joint assured, as the case may be, and make it 
over to the subscriber together with a signed notice of the re- 
assignment addressed to the Insurance Company; 

(iij if the policy has been delivered to him under clause (b) of sub-rule 
(1) of rule 22, make over the policy to the subscriber: 

Provided that, if the subscriber, after proceeding on leave preparatory to 
retirement, or after being, while on leave, permitted to retire or declared by a 
competent medical authority to be unfit for further service, returns to duty, any 
policy so reassigned or made over shall, if it has not matured or been assigned 
or charged or encumbered in any way, be again assigned to the President and 
delivered to the Account Officer, or again be delivered to the Account Officer, as 
the case may be, in the manner provided in rule 22, and thereupon the provisions 
of these rules shall, so far as may be, again apply in respect of tho policy: 

Provided further that, if the policy has matured or been assigned or charged 
or encumbered in any way, the provisions of sub-rul> (4) of rule 22 applicable 
to a failure to assign and deliver a policy shall apply. 

(2) Save as provided by rule 28, when the subscriber dies before quitting the 
service, the Account Officer shall— 

(1) if the policy has been assigned to the President under rule 22, or under 
the corresponding rule heretofore in force, reassign the policy in 
Form II in the Third Schedule to such person as may be legally 
entitled to receive it, and shall make over the policy to such person 



Sio. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19G0/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1862 3507 


together with a signed notice of the reassignment addressed to the 
insurance Company; 

(ii) if the policy has been delivered to him under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) 
of rule 22, make over the policy to the beneficiary, if any, or if there 
Is no beneficiary, to such persons as may be legally entitled to receive 
it. 

25. Procedure on maturity of policies. — (1) If a policy assigned to the President 
under rule 22 or under the corresponding rule heretofore in force, matures before 
the subscriber quits the service, or if a policy on the joint lives of a subscriber 
and the subscriber’s wife or husband, assigned under the said rule, or under the 
corresponding rule heretofore in force, falls due for payment by reason of the 
death of the subscriber’s wife or husband, the Account Officer shall, save as pro- 
vided by rule 28, proceed as follows: — 

(i) if the amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuses 

is greater than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn from 
the Fund in respect of the policy with interest thereon at the rate 
provided in rule 11, the Account Officer shall re-a^slgn the policy in 
the Form in the Fourth Schedule to the subscriber or to the subscriber 
and the joint assured, as the case may be, and make it over to the 
subscriber, who shall immediately on receipt of the policy moneys 
from the Insurance Company pay or repay to the Fund the whole of 
any amount withheld or withdrawn with interest, and in default, the 
provisions of rule 29 shall apply as they apply jn relation to eases 
where money withheld or withdrawn from the Fund under clause 
(a) or clause (b) of rule 17 has been utilised for a purpose other 
than that for which sanction was given to the withholding or with- 
drawal. 

(ii) if the amount assured together with the amount of any accrued bonuses 

is less than the whole of the amount withheld or withdrawn with 
interest, the Account Officer shall realise the amount assured together 
with any accrued bonuses and shall place the amount so realised 
to th? credit of the subscriber in the Fund. 

(2) Save as provided by rule 28, if a policy delivered to the Account Officer 
under clause (b) of sub-rule (1) of rule 22 matures before the subscriber quits 
the service, the Account Officer shall make over the policy to the subscriber: 

Provided that if the interest in the policy of the wife of the subscriber, or of 
his wife and children, or any of them, as expressed on the face of the policy, 
expires when the policy matures, the subscriber, if the policy moneys are paid to 
him by the Insurance Company, shall immediately on receipt thereof pay or 
repay to the Fund either — 

(i) the whole of any amount withheld or withdrawn from the Fund in 

respect of the policy with interest thereon at the rate provided in 
rule 11, or 

(ii) an amount equal to the amount assured together with any accrued 

bonuses 

whichever is less, and, in default, the provisions of Rule 29 shall apply as they 
apply in relation to cases where money withheld or withdrawn from the Fund 
under clause Ca) or clause (b) of rule 17 has been utilised for a purpose other 
than that for which sanction was given to the withholding or withdrawal. 

26. Procedure on cessation of Interest of the subscriber in the family pension 

fund, — If the interest of the subscriber in the family pension fund ceases, in whole 
■g* part, from any caus~ whatsoever, the provident fund account of the subscriber 
shall forthwith be reimbursed by the amount of the refund secured by the 
subscriber from the family pension fund, which amount shall, in default of re- 
imbursement, be deducted from the subscriber’s emoluments by instalments or 
otherwise, as may be directed by the authority competent to sanction an advance 
for the grant of which, special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12. 

27. Lapse or wrongful assignment of Policies.— If the policy lapses, or is 
assigned, otherwise than to the President under rule 22, charged or encumbered, 
the provisions of sub-rule (4) of rule 22 applicable to a failure to assign and- 
dellver a policy shall apply. 




3508 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Part U 


28. Duty of Account Officer when he receives notice of assignment, charge or 
•encumbrance of policies. — If the Account Officer receives notice of — 

(a) an assignment (otherwise than an assignment to the President under 

rule 22), or 

(b) a charge or encumbrance on, or 

(c) an order of a Court restraining dealings with the policy or any amount 

realised thereon, 

the Account Officer shall not — 

(i) reassign or make over the policy as provided in rule 24, or 

(ii) realise the amount assured by the policy or reassign, or make over 

the policy, as provided in rule 26, 

Taut shall forthwith refer the matter to the Government. 

29. Wrongful use of money withheld or withdrawn. — Notwithstanding anything 
-contained in these rules, if the sanctioning authority is satisfied that money with- 
held or withdrawn from the Fund under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 17 has 
been utilised for a purpose other than that for which sanction was given to the 
withholding or withdrawal of the money, the amount in question, shall, with 
interest at the rate provided in rule 11, forthwith be repaid or paid, as the case 
may be, by the subscriber to the Fund, or in default, be ordered to be recovered 
by deduction in one sum from the emoluments of the subscriber even if he be 
on leave. If the total amount to be repaid or paid, as the case may be, be more 
than half the subscriber’s emoluments recoveries shall be made in monthly instal- 
ments of moieties of his emoluments till the entire amount is repaid or paid, as the 
case may be, by him. 

Note. — The term ‘emoluments’ in this rule does not include subsistence grant. 

30. Restriction of the provisions relating to financing of policies to existing 
subscribers In respect of existing policies. — The provisions of rules 17 to 29 shall 
apply only to subscribers who, before the date of publication of these rules, have 
been substituting in whole or in part, payments towards policies of life insurance 
for subscriptions to the Fund or making withdrawals from the Fund for such 
payments: 

Provided that such subscribers shall not be permitted to substitute such pay- 
ments for subscriptions due to the Fund or to withdraw from the Fund for 
.making such payments in respect of any new policy. 


Final withdrawal of accumulations In the Fund 

31. Final withdrawal of accumulations in the Fund.— When a subscriber quits 
the service, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall become payable 
to him: 

Provided that a subscriber, who has been dismissed from the service and is 
subsequently reinstated in the service shall, if required to do so by the Govern- 
ment, repay any amount paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of this rule, with 
interest thereon at the rate provided in rule 11 in the manner provided in the 
proviso to rule 32. The amount so repaid shall be credited to his account in the 
Fund. 

Explanation , — A subscriber, other than one who is appointed on contract or 
•one who has retired from service and is subsequently re-employed, with or with- 
out a break in service, shall not be deemed to quit the service, when he is trans- 
ferred without any break in service to a new post under a State Government or 
in another department of the Central Government (in which he is governed by 
another set of Provident Fund Rules) and without retaining any connection with 
his former post. In such a case, his subscriptions together with interest thereon 
•shall be transferred — 

(a) to his account in the other Fund in accordance with the rules of that 

Fund, if the new post is in another department of the Central Govern- 
ment, or 

(b) to a new account under the State Government concerned if the new 

post is under a State Government and the State Government consents, 
by general or special order, to such transfer of subscriptions and 
interest. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, J882 3 5-, 9 


Note. — Transfers shall include cases of resignations from service in order to 
tak ; up appointment in another Department of the Central Government or under 
the State Government without any break and with proper permission of the 
Central Government. In cases where there hus been a break in service 
it shall be limited to the joining time allowed on transfer to a different station. 


The same shall hold good in cases of retrenchments followed bv immediate 
employment whether under the same or different Government. 

32. Retirement of subscriber. — When a subscriber — 

(a) has proceeded on leave preparatory to retirement, or, if he is employed 

in a vacation department, on leave preparatory to retirement com- 
bined with vacation, or 

(b) while on leave, has been permitted to retire or been declared by a 

competent medical authority to be unfit for further service, 

the amount standing to his credit in the Fund shall, upon application made by 
him in that behalf of the Account Officer, become payable to the subscriber: 

Provided that the subscriber, if he returns to duty, shall, if required to do so 
by Government, repay to the Fund, for credit to his account, the whole or part of 
any amount paid to him from the Fund in pursuance of this rule with interest 
thereon at the rate provided in rule 11 in cash or securities or partly in cash 
and partly in securities, by instalments or otherwise, by recovery from his emolu- 
ments or otherwise, as may bo directe.d by the authority competent to sanction 
an advance for the grant of which, special reasons are required under sub-rule 
(2) of rule 12. 

33. Procedure on death of subscriber. — -On tho death of a subscriber before tho 
amount standing to his credit has become payable, or where the amount has 
become payable, before payment has been made: 

(i) when the subscriber leaves a family — 

(a) if a nomination made by the subscriber in accordance with the pro- 
visions of rule 5 or of the corresponding rule heretofore in force in 
favour of a member or members of his family subsists, the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to which the 
nomination relates shall become payable to bis nominee or nominees 
in the proportion specified in the nomination; 

(b) if no such nomination in favour of a member or members of the 
family of the subscriber subsists, or If such nomination relates only 
to a part of the amount standing to his credit in the Fund, the whole 
amount or the part thereof to which the nomination does not relate, 
as the case may be, shall, notwithstanding any nomination purporting 
to be in favour of any person or persons other than a member or 
members of his family, become payable to the members of his family 
in equal shares: 

Provided that no share sha.ll be payable to — 

(1) sons who have attained majority; 

i2) sons of a deceased son who have attained majority; 

) married daughters whose husbands are alive; 

(4) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive; 

if there is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses 
(1), (2), (3) and (4): 

Provided further that the widow or widows and the child or children of a 
deceased son shall receive between them in equal parts oijly the share w 7 hich that 



351 O THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAI1 AY ANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


son would have received if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted 
from the provisions of clause (1) of the first proviso. 

(ii) when the subscriber leaves no family, if a nomination made by him in 
accordance with the provisions of rule 5 or of the corresponding rule 
heretofore in force in favour of any person or persons subsists, the 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to which 
the nomination relates, shall become payable to bis nominee or 
nominees in the proportion specified in the nomination. 


34. Manner of payment of amount in the Fund, — (1) When the amount 
standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund becomes payable, it shall be 
the duty of the Account Officer to make payment on receipt of a written applica- 
tion in this behalf as provided in sub-rule (3). 


(2) If the person to whom, under those rules, any amount cu: policy is to be 
paid, assigned, reassigned or delivered, is a lunatic for whose estate a manager 
has been appointed in this behalf under the Indian Lunacy Act, 1912 the payment 
or reassignment or delivery shall be made to such manager and not to the lunatic. 


(3) Any person who desires to claim payment under this rule shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Account Officer. Payment of amounts 
withdrawn shall be made in India only. The persons to whom the amounts are 
payable shall make their own arrangements to receive payment in India. 


Note. — When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has become pay- 
able under rule 31, 32 or 33, the Account Officer shall authorise prompt payment 
of that portion of the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in regard to 
which there is no dispute or doubt, the balance being adjusted as soon after as 
may be, 

35. Procedure on transfer of a Government servant from one Department to 
another. — (a) If a Government servant who is a subscriber to any other non- 
Contributory Provident Fund of the Central Government or of a State Government 
is permanently transferred to pensionable service in a Department of the Central 
Government in which he is governed by these rules, the amount of subscriptions, 
together with interest thereon standing to his credit in such other fund on the 
date of transfer shall be transferred to his credit in the Fund; 

Provided that where a subscriber was subscribing to a non-Contributory 
Provident Fund of a State Government, the consent of that Government shall be 
obtained. 

(b) If a Government servant who is a subscriber to the State Railway Provident 
Fund or any other Contributory Provident Fund of the Central Government or 
a State Contributory Provident Fund is permanently transferred to pensionable 
service in a Department of Central Government in which he is governed by these 
rules and unless such a subscriber elects lo continue to be governed by the rules 
of such Fund, when such an option is given — 

(i) the amount of subscriptions, with interest thereon, standing to his 
credit in such contributory provident fund on the date of transfer 
shall with the consent of the other Government, if any, be trans- 
ferred to his credit in the Fund; 

(11) the amount of Government contributions, with interest thereon, standing 
to his credit in such contributory provident fund shall with the con- 
sent of the other Government, if any, be credited to the Central 
Revenues (Civil); and 

(iii) he shall thereupon be entitled to count towards pension such part of 
the period during which he subscribed to such contributory provident 
fund as the President may determine. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OK INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1Q60/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3511 


Note (I). — The provisions of this rule do not apply to a subscriber who has 
retired from service and is subsequently re-employed with or without a break in 
service, or to a subscriber who was holding the former appointment on contract. 


Note (2). — The provisions of this rule shall, however, apply to persons who 
are appointed without break, whether temporarily or permanently to a post 
carrying the benefits of these rules after resignation or retrenchment from service, 
under another Department of Central Government or under the State Govern- 
ment. 


36. Transfer of amount to the Contributory Provident Fund (India). — If a 

subscriber to the Fund is subsequently admitted to the benefits of the Contri- 
butory Provident Fund (India), the amount of his subscriptions, together with 
interest thereon, shall be transferred to the credit of his account in the Contri- 
butory Provident Fund (India), 

Note,— The provisions of this rule do not apply to a subscriber who is appointed 
on contract or who has retired from service and is subsequently re-employed with 
or without a break in service in another post carrying contributory provident 
fund benefits. 

37. Relaxation of the provisions of the rules in Individual cases. — -When the 
President is satisfied that the operation of any of these rules causes or is likely to 
cause undue hardship to a subscriber, he may, notwithstanding anything contained 
in these rules deal with the case of such subscriber .in such maimer as may 
appear to him to be just and equitable. 


Procedure Rules. 

38. Number of account to be quoted at the time of payment of subscription. — 

When paying a subscription in India, either by deduction from emoluments or 
in cash, a subscriber shall quote the number of his account in the Fund, which 
shall be communicated to him by the Account Officer. Any change in the number 
shall similarly be communicated to the subscriber by the Account Officer. 

39. Annual statement of account to be supplied to subscriber. — (1) As soon as 
possible after the close of each year, the Account Officer shall send to each sub- 
scriber a statement of his account in the Fund showing the opening balance 
as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or debited during the 
year, the total amount of interest credited as on the 3 1st March of the year and 
the closing balance on that date. The Account Officer shall attach to the state- 
ment of account an enquiry whether the subscriber- 

fa) desires to make any alteration in any nomination made under rule 5 
or under the corresponding rule heretofore in force; 

(b) has acquired a family in cases where the subscriber ha s made no 
nomination in favour of a member of his family under the proviso 
to sub-rule (1) of rule 5. 

(2) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement, and errors should be brought to the notice of the Account Officer 
within Lhree months from the date of receipt of the statement. 

(3) The Account Officer shall, if required by a subscriber, once, but not more 
than once, in a year inform the subscriber of the total amount standing to his 
credit in the Fund at the end of the last month for which his account has been 
written up, 

40. Interpretation. — If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these 
rules, it shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision thereon shall 
be final, 

41. Repeal. — The General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules are hereby 
repealed. 



35i2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1 960/ AGRA HAYANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


First Schedule [Rule 5 (3)] 

Forms of Nomination 

I. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below, who is a member of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules, 1960, to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in the 
event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid: — 


Name and address 
of nominee 

t 

! 

Relationship 
with subscriber 

Age 

Contingencies on 
the happening of 
which the no- 
mination shall 
become invalid. 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person/persons, if any, 
to whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
pass in the eve t 1 

his predeceasin g the 
subsetiber. 







Dated this day of 19 

at 

Two witnesses to signature. Signature of subscriber. 

1 

2 


II. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one 

member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below, who are members of my 
family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules, I960, to receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in 
the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distributed 
among the said persons in the manner shown against their names: — 


Name and Address 
of nominees 

Relationship 

with 

Subscriber 

Age 

•Amoun 
share of 
accumulations 
to be paid to 
each 

[ Contingencies 
on the happen- 
ing of which 
the nomination 

1 shall become 

1 invalid 

Name, address 
and relation- 
ship of the per- 
ron/peisons, if 
any, to whom 
the right of the 
, nominee shall 

1 pass in the ev- 
I ent of his pre- 
deceasing the 
subscriber. 







Dated this 



day of 

19 



at. . 


Two witnesses to signature. Signature of subscriber. 


•Note, — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that 
may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 



Sec, 8(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3513 


III. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Cen- 
tral Services) Rules, 1960, hereby nominate the person mentioned below to 
receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in the event of my 
death before that amount has become payable, or having become payable has not 
been paid:-— 


Name and address 
of nominee. 

Relationship 
with subscriber. 

Age 

’Contingencies on 
the happening of 
which the nomi- 
nation shall 

become invalid. 

Name, address and 
relationship of the 
person/persona, if any, 
to whom the right of 
nominee shall pass in 
the event of his pre- 
deceasing the subs- 
criber. 







Dated this day of 19 

at 

Two witnesses to signature. Signature of subscriber. 

1 

2 


’Note: — Whore a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall 
specify in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family. 


IV. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than 

one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the General Provident Fund (Cen- 
tral Services) Rules, 1960, hereby nominate the persons mentioned below to 
receive the amount that may stand to my credit in the Fund, in the event of my 
death before that amount has become payable, or having become payable has not 
been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the said 
persons in the manner shown below against their names: — 


Name and address 
of nominees. 

Relationship 

with 

subscriber 

Age 

’Amount or 
share of accu- 
mulations to 
be paid to each 

’’Contingen- 
cies on the 
happening of 
which the no- 
mination shall 
become invalid. 

Name, address 
and relation- 
ship of the per- 
son/persons, if 
any, to whom 
the right of the 
nominee shall 
pass in the ev- 
ent of his pre- 
deceasing the 
subscriber. 



1 

1 




Dated this day of 19 


Two witnesses to signature. Signature of subscriber. 

1 

2 

•Note:— T his column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount 
that may stand to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 

’•Note. — Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall 
specify in this column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of 
his subsequently acquiring a family. 



3514 THE GAZETTE OK INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19fiO/AGRAHAYANA 20, 1882 [Part II 


Second Schedule [Rule 22(1) (a)] 

Forms of Assignment 

Form (1) 

I, A.B, of hereby assign unto the President of India 

the within policy of assurance os security for payment of all sums which under 
rule 27 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, I960, I may here- 
after become liable to pay to that Fund. 

I hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this day of 19 

Signature of Subscriber. 

Station. One witness to signature. 


Form (2) 

- — 

We, A.B. (the subscriber) of and C.D. (the joint assured) 

of in consideration of the President of India agreeing at 

our request to accept payments towards the within policy of assurance in substi- 
tution for the subscriptions payable by me the said A,B. to the General Provident 
Fund (or, as the case may be, to accept the withdrawal- of the sum of Rs. from: 
the sum to the credit of the said A.B. in the General Provident Fund for payment 
of the premium of the within policy of assurance), hereby jointly and severally 
assign unto the said President of India the within policy of assurance as security 
for payment of all sums which under rule 27 of the General Provident Fund (Cen- 
tral Services) Rules, 1960, the said A.B. may hereafter become liable to pay to 
that Fund. 

We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this day of 19 


Station. 


Signature of Subscriber 
and the Joint Assured. 

One witness to signature. 


Form (3) 

I, C.D., wife of A.B., and the assignee of the within policy, having, at the 
request of A.B., the assured, agreed to release my interest in the policy ui favour 
of A.B., in order that A.B., may assign the policy to the President of India, who 
has agreed to accept payments towards the within policy of Assurance in substitu- 
tion for the subscriptions payable by A.B. to the General Provident Fund hereby 
at the request and by the direction of A.B. assign and I, the said A.B. assign and 
confirm unto the President of India the within policy of Assurance as security for 
payment of all sums which under rule 27 of the rules of the said Fund the said 
A.B. may hereafter become liable to pay to the Fund. 

We hereby certify that no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated this day of 19 


Station. 


Signature of the assignee 
and the subscriber. 

One witness to signatures. 



Sec. 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 1 7, ]%0, AGRA HAVANA gfi, 1882 35 x 5 


Form (4) 


Form of single Unant assignment to be used in cases where a subscriber to 

the Provident Fund who has effected an insurance policy under 

the rules of that Fund is admitted to the General Provident Fund ( Central 
Serviced) . 

I of hereby further assign unto the 

(subscribers’ name) (subscribers’ address) 


President of India the within policy of assurance 1 as security for the payment of 
all sums which under Rule 27 of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 

Rules, 1900, the said may hereafter become liable to pay to 

(subscriber’s name) 

the General Provident Fund (Central Services). 

I hereby certify that except an assignment to the President of India/Governor 

of the State oi' as security for payment of all sums which the 

said has become liable to pay under Rule 

(subscriber’s name) 

of the Provident Fund Rules, no prior assignment of the 

within policy exists. 

Dated, this day of 19 

Station 

One witness 


Signature of the Subscriber. 


Form (5) 

Form of joint tenant Assignment to be used in cases where a subscriber 

to Provident Fund who has effected an insurance policy under 

the Rules of that Fund is admitted to the General Provident Fund ( Central 
Services ) . 

We, of and 

(subscriber’s name) (subscriber’s address) (wife’s name) 

wife of hereby jointly and severally further assign unto 

the President of India the within policy of assurance as a security for the pay- 
ment of all sums which under Rule 27 of General Provident Fund (Central 

Services) Rules, I960, the said may hereafter become liable 

(subscriber’s name) 

to nay to the General Provident Fund (Central Services). 

We hereby certify that except an assignment to the President of India/Gover- 
nor of the State of as security for payment of all sums 

which the said has become liable to pay under 

(subscriber’s name) 

Rule of the Provident Fund Rules,, 

no prior assignment of the within policy exists. 

Dated, this day of 19 

Station 

One Witness 


Signature of the subscriber 
and the joint tenant. 


Note. — The assignment may be executed on the policy itself either in the 
subscriber's handwriting or in type, or alternatively a typed or printed slip con- 
taining the assignment may be pasted on the blank space provided for the pur- 
pose on the policy. A typed or printed endorsement must he duly signed and if 
pasted on the policy it must he initialled across all four margins. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 / AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Part H 


Third Schedule (Rule 24') 

Forms of Reassignment by the President of India. 

FORM I 

All sums which have become payable by the above-named A. B. under rule 27 
of the General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1860, having been paid 
and/or all liability for payment by him of any such sums In the future having 
ceased the President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy of assurance 
to the said A.B. and C.D. 

A.B. 


Dated this day of 19 

Executed by Account Officer of the Fund for and on behalf 

of the President of India In the presence of 

X.Y, 

(Signature of Account Officer) 


Y.Z. 

[(One Witness who should add his 
designation and address). 


FORM II 

The above-named A.B. having died on the day of 19 , 

the President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy of assurance to 
C.D 

Dated this day of 19 

Executed by Account Officer of the Fund for and on behalf 

of the President of India in the presence of 


XY 

(Signature of Account Officer) 


Y.Z. 

(One witness who should add his 
designation and address.) 


Fourth Schedule (Rule 26) 

Form of Reassignment by the President of India. 

The President of India doth hereby reassign the within policy to the said 
A.B . 

A.B. and C.D. 

Dated this day of 19 

Executed by Account officer of the Fund for and on behalf 

of the President of India In the presence of 


XY 

(Signature of Account Officer) 

Y.Z. 

(One witness who should add his 
designation and address.) 


♦Fill in particulars of persons legally entitled to receive the policy. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3517 


Fifth Schedule (Rule 12) 

Authorities competent to grant temporary advances. 

1. An advance for the grant of which, special reasons are not required under 
sub-ruli (2) of Rule 12 may be sanctioned by the authority competent to grant 
an advance of pay on transfer under Rule 265 of the G.F.R. Vol. 1 or if the 
applicant is competent to sanction the advance of pay to himself on transfer, by 
the administrative authority next higher to tho applicant. 

Note: — Advances to temporary Government servants may be sanctioned 
by the authority who is competent to sanction advance of pay 
on transfer for permanent Government servants. 

2. An advance for the grant of which special reasons are required under sub- 
rule (2) of Rule 12 may be sanctioned by — 

A Ministry or Department of the Government of India. 

In the case of officers who originally belonged to the Indian Medical Service, 
and are now serving under a State Government, a Department of the 
State Government. 

The Governor of Assam in his capacity as Agent to the President for the 
Administration of tribal areas. 

A Chief Commissioner /Lieutenant Governor, 

An authority declared by the Central Government to be the Head of a 
Department under clause (10) of rule 2 of the Supplementary Rules, 
but not Including any authority declared to be the Head of a Depart- 
ment by a Chief Commissioncr/Lieutenant-Governor. 

The General Managers, Managers, Works Managers and Assistant Managers 
(Technical) of the Government of India Presses, functioning as heads 
of Presses. 

The Controller of Stationery. 

The Manager of the Forms Press, Calcutta. 

The Manager of Publications, New Delhi. 

The Controller of Patents and Designs. 

The Private Secretary to the President. 

Provided that where the appointing authority of the applicant is higher than 
the Head of Department or other authority mentioned in the above list ui der 
whose administrative control he is serving, the Head of the Department or other 
authority, as the case may be, shall not reject his application for an advance 
save with the approval — 

(a) of the Comptroller and Auditor General, in the case of officers of the 

Indian Audit and Accounts Service, and 

(b) of the appointing authority, in other cases. 

Provided further that where the applicant for an advance for which special 
reasons are required is himself competent to sanction the advance under the 
aforesaid provisions, the authority competent to sanction the advance shall be — 

(I) in the case of officers of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service, the 
Comptroller and Auditor General; 

’(ii) in other cases, the appointing authority of the applicant. 

3. In respect of any person serving in connection with the affairs of a State, 
who is entitled to subscribe to the Fund by or under any law made in this behalf, 
the authority competent to grant an advance for which special reasons 8re not 
required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12, as well as for the grant of an advance for 
which special reasons are required under sub-rule (2) of rule 12 shall be the 
State Government, 



35 l8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Pakt II 


MEMORANDUM EXPLANATORY OF THE GENERAL PROVIDENT FUND 
(CENTRAL SERVICES) RULES, 1960, 

(Against each rule, the corresponding rule In the rules previously in force has 
been given within brackets). 

Rule 1 (Rule 1). — The rules come into force from the 1st April I960 i.c. the date 
from which the compulsory provident fund scheme has been introduced. 

Rule 2 (Rule 2). — (a) The definition of "Account Officer” has been enlarged to- 
include the Pay & Accounts Officer and the Head - of Office. 

(b) Reference to sterling overseas pay has been omitted from the definition of 
"emoluments” as no one who is subject to these rules Is in receipt of such pay. 

Dearness pay has been included in the term "emoluments”. This }s necessary 
to cover cases of those Government servants who may iiot elect the revised scales- 
of pay under the Central Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules. 1960. 

(e) The definition of “leave” has been enlarged to include leave under the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933. 

Rule 3 ( Rule 3).- — Rule 34 in the rules previously in force has been incorporated 
as sub-rule (2), 

Rule 4 (Rule 4) . — This rule has been modified as the result of the introduction 
Of the compulsory provident fund scheme. Provision has also been made that 
apprentices and probationers shall be treated as temporary Government servants 
for the purpose of this rule. 

Rules 5 to 7 in the rules previously in force have been deleted as they are now- 
unnecessary. 

Rule 5 (Rule 8). — A sentence has been added at the end ol clause (a) of sub- 
rule (5). This is self-explanatory. 

Rule 6 (Rule 9). — The words "as well as advances and withdrawals from the 
Fund” have been added at the end of this rule. 

Rule 7 (Rule 10),— The subscription will not now be optional during leave on 
average pay or earned leave of less than one month or 30 days’ duration, as the 
case may be. 

Rule 8 (Rule 11). — Sub-rule (1) has been modified consequent on the decision 
taken on the recommendations of the Pay Commission. 

In the case of Class IV employees, whose provident fund accounts are now 
being maintained by Heads of Offices, the minimum rate of subscription is Rs. 4/- 
a month for those drawing a pay of less than Rs. 75/- p.m, and Rs. 5/- a month 
for others. 

Under sub-rule (4) a subscriber can now reduce the subscription also once in 
the course of a year. 

Rule 9 (Rule 3 2). — No change 

Rule ]0 (Rule 13). — In sub-rule (1) the provision relating to sterling over- 
seas pay has been deleted. 

Sub-rule (3) provides also for recovery of arrear subscriptions in cases of 
default. 

Rule 11 (Rule 14). — A new proviso has been inserted below sub-rule (3) which 
is self-explanatory. 

Rule 12 (Rule 15). — Main purposes for which advances may be granted have 
been specified in sub-rule (1). Advances to pay expenses in connection with ill- 
ness or to meet the cost of higher education may include also where necessary, 
the travelling expenses. 

For the purpose of this rule pay Includes dearness pay, where admissible. 

Rule 13 (Rule 16).- — No change, 



Sec. S Cii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1900/AGRAHAYANA 2(3, i882 3519 


Rule 14 (Rule 28). — This rule incorporates the provisions in rule 28 of the 
rules previously in force confining It to advances. Rule 29 is confined to with- 
holding or withdrawal of money from the Fund for purposes of financing insur- 
ance policies. 

Rule 15 ( New Rule.).— This rule lays down the conditions of eligibility and also 
specifics the purposes for which final withdrawals are allowed. Provision has also 
been made for final withdrawal to meet medical expenses, including where neces- 
sary, the travelling expenses. 

Rule 1G (New Rule). — The amount of withdrawal shall not ordinarily exceed 
six months’ pay or one-half of the amount standing to the credit of the subscriber- 
in the Fund, whichever is less. The sanctioning authority can sanction an amount 
In excess of this limit but only up to three-fourths of the amount to the credit of 
the subscriber. 


Sub-rule (2) contains penal provision to cover cases where a subscriber with- 
draws money from the Fund and does not use It for the purpose for which the 
withdrawal is made. All the other conditions prescribed from time to time have 
been done away with in order to simplify the rules. 

For the purpose of this rule also pay has been taken to include dearness pay, 
where admissible. 


Rules 17 to 28 (Rules 17 to 27). — These rules incorporate the provisions con- 
tained In rules 17 to 27 of the rules previously in force. The proviso below sub- 

rule (2) of rule 18 of those rules has been doleted consequent on the deletion of 
rule 7 (i). 

Rule 29 (Rule 28). — This corresponds to rule 28 of the rules previously In force 
but is confined to withholding or withdrawal of money from the Fund for financing 
Insurance policies, A separate rule 14 has been included relating to advances. 

Rule 30 (New Rule). — This Is a new rule making the provisions contained In 

rules 17 to 29 applicable only to subscribers who were financing their insurance 

policies from the Fund before the publication of these rules. 

This rule does not, however, permit those subscribers to finance any new 
policy from the Fund. 

Rules 31 to 33 (Rules 29 to 31).— -No change. 

Rule 34 (Rule 32), — In sub-rule (1) provision has been made requiring the sub- 
mission of a written application for withdrawn 1 of the accumulations in the 
E\md when they become payable. 

Rule 35 (Rule 33). — In clause (a), the provisions contained in clauses (a) and 
(c) of rule 33 of the rules previously In force have been incorporated. 

Rule 36 (Rule 33A). — No change. 

Rule 37 (Neio Rule). — This corresponds to rule 35 of the All India Services 
(Provident Fund) -Rules, 1955. 

Rules 38 and. 39 (Rules 35 and 30).— No change. 

Rule 40 (New Rule). — This relates to interpretation of rules. 

Rule 41 (New Rule). — This is a repealing clause. 

Schedules . — No change. 

[No. F. 50(2)-EV/60.] 
DEVT DIYAL BHATIA. Dy. Secy.. 



{Department of Economic Affairs) 


New Delhi , the 7th December 1960 


SO. 3001— Statemo* of the Adairs] of the_Reserve Bank of India as on the 2nd December i960 

Banting Department 



Liabilities 

Rs. 

Assets 

R*. 

Capital paid up 

« • ■ * 

5*00*00^000 

Note* ....... 

23,99>75,ooo 

Reserve Fund 

. 

80930 jOO^OO 

Rupee Coin 

3937^00 

National Agricultural 

Credit (Long-term 


Subsidiary Coin 

7,15,000 

Operations) Fund 

4 4 

4Oy3Oy0O9DCO 



National Agricultural 

Credit (Stabilisation) 


Bills Purchased and Discounted : — 


Fund 

, * . . 

5i009309300 

(a) Internal 





(6) External .... 


Deposits : — 



(c) Government Treasury Bills 

10*22*21, 000 

(cO Government 





(i) Centra] Government 

60,71,239300 

Balances held abroad* .... 

28 , 75 , 039 x 30 

£2) Other Governments 

11,71^69300 

Loans and Advances to Governments** 

35,57,739300 

(67 Banks 

* 

89,78^69x30 

Other Loans and Advances! 

121,14,999x30 

(ij Others 

. > • 

91,16,32,000 

Investments ...... 

203 , 98 , 50,000 

Buis Favable 

. ■ • 4 

26,88,629300 

Other Asiets ...... 

16930,959300 

Other Liabilities 

' 

2 9>53»49,°oo 




Rupees 

439,79,38,000 

Rupees . 

439,79,389300 


•Includes Cash and Short-term Securities. 

••Include* Temporary Overdrafts to State Governments. 

fThe item ‘Other Loan* and Advances’ includes Rs. 4,06,00,000/- advanced to scheduled b ank* against usance hills under Section 17 '4X C ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act. 

Dated the 7th day of December, 196a 


3520 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Pakt II 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended lie 2nd day of December i960 




Issue 

Department 


Liabilities 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Assets 

Rs. Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking 
Department 

Notes in circulation 

Total Note* issued 

23 , 99 . 75.000 

18,28,11,07,000 

18,52,10,82,000 

A- Gold Coin and Bullion: — 

(a) Held in India 

(£>) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities 

117,76,02,000 

123,00,89,000 




Total op A 

240,76,92,000 




B, Rupee Coin . 

129,28,33.000 




Government of India Rupee 
Securities 

14,82,05,57,000 




Internal Bill* of Exchange and 
other commercial papers 


Total Liabilities 


18,52,10,82,000 

Total Asset* 

18,52,10,82,000 

Dated the 7th day of December, i960. 



B. Venkatappiah, 


Dy. Governor. 

[Now F3(2>BC/6 o.] 
A- BAKSI, Jt. Secy. 


5 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19G0/AGRAHAYANA 20 , 1882 3521 



3522 


THE OAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1 960 /AGRA HAYANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 8th December 1960 

S.O. 3002. — In pursuance of clause (aa) of sub-scction (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Finance Corporation Act, (1948) (15 of 1948) the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri K. P. Mathrani, Additional Secretary, Department of Econo- 
mic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, to be a Director of the Industrial Finance Corpo- 
ration of India vice Shri A. Baksi. 

[No. F. 2(98) -Corp/60.] 
M. K. VENKATACHALAM, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1960 

S.O. 3003. — In pursuance of Sub-section (2) of Section 21 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act 1948 (15 of 1948), the Central Government on the 

recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Industrial Finance Corporation 
of India hereby fixes 4 per cent per annum as the rate of interest payable on the 
bonds to be issued by the said Corporation in January, 1961 and maturing on 
the 2nd January, 1962. 

[No. F. 2 (88') -Corp/60.] 
S. S. SHARMA, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 6th December 1960 

S.O. 3004. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of section 69 
of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby makes the following amendments in the Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922, the 
same having been previously published as required by sub-section (4) of the 
said section. 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Rules, I960. 

2. After rule 49 of the Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922, the following rules shall 
be inserted, namely:— 

■‘50. (1) The application to the Commissioner under section 59B of the Act- 
for information as to the amount of tax determined as payable by 
an assessce in respect of any assessment made on or after the 1st 
April, 1960, shall be made in the following form: — • 

Form of application under section 59B of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 
To 

The Commissioner of Income-tax, 


Sir, 

I request you to furnish the information as to the amount of tax determined 

as payable by in respect of the assessment year ending on 

(here give name, status and complete address of the assessee) 

31st day of March, 19 

2. The lee of Rs, 10 has been paid and the receipt is enclosed. 

Signature of the applicant 

Name of the applicant 

(in capital letters) 

Father’s /Husband’s name 

Full address 

Dated 19 

(Note, — 1, A separte application has to be made in respect of each assessee and 
for each assessment year. 



Sec. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960 /AGR AHAYANA 26, 1882 3523 


2. The fee should be credited in the treasury or a branch of the State Bank 
of India or a branch of the Reserve Bank of India after obtaining 
chalan from the Income-tax Officer and the triplicate chalan sent to 
the Commissioner along with the application. 


(2) The information under section 59B of the Act shall be furnished by the 
Commissioner in the following form: — 

Office of the 


No Date 

To 


With reference to your application, dated under section 59B 

■of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 requesting for information as to the amount 

■of tax determined as payable by in respect of the assessment 

year ending on 31st day of March 19 , the said information is given below: — 

Name and address of the assessee 

Status 

Assessment year 

Amount of tax determined as payable 
(in words and figures) 


Seal 


Dated 


(3) 


19 


Signature of the authority furnishing 
the information. 

Where il is not possible for the Commissioner to furnish the informa- 
tion asked for by the applicant under section 59B of the Act owing 
to the fact that the relevant assessment has not been completed, he 
shall inform the applicant in the following form: 


No 


Office of the 


To 


Date 


With reference to your application, dated under section 59B of the 

Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, requesting for information as to the amount of tax 

det -rmined as payable by in respect of the assessment year ending 

on the 31st day of March I am to inform you that the said, 

information is not yet available. 


Seal 


Signature 


Dated 


19 




3524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, I960 AGRAHAYANA 26, 1S82 [fU'RT If 


(4) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that there are circumstances 
justifying !he refusal of information as to the amount of tax deter- 
mined as payable by an assessee in respect of any assessment year, 
he shall intimate the fact to the applicant in the following form: — 

No 

Office of the 


Date 

To 


With reference to your application, dated under section 59B of 

the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, requesting for information as to the amount of 
tax determined as payable by in respect of the assessment year end- 
ing on the 31st day of March 19 , I am satisfied that there are circumstan- 

ces justifying its refusal and the information is accordingly refused. 

Signature 


Seal 


Dated 19 

51. (1) Every application made by a person under section 59B of the Act 
shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees ten for each assessment year for which 
information is requested for under that section. 

(2) Where the information is not furnished owing to the fact that the relevant 
assessment has not been completed or wTiere the Commissioner refuses to furnish 
the information, he shall refund or cause to be refunded the amount of the fee 
paid.” 

[No. 105/3(55) -60/TPL.] 
D. SUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND LANlJ 

CUSTOMS, BOMBAY 

NOTICE 

Pcmbc'j ih” 6th December 1960 

S.O. 3005. — Whereas it appears that the marginally noted goods which were 

\ seized by the S.R.P. staff at a place known 
S. No. Description of goods Oty. sa ‘Paushl Paunda’ in the jurisdiction of 

Ch. Nos. 72 and 73 on the Goa Frontier on 

i. Four bags of cloves 90 seeis. 15th September, I960, were imported by 

land from Goa (Portuguese Territory in 

2 . 7 O’clock Razor India) in contravention of section 5(1/ of 

blades 3 Hades the Land Customs Act, 1924, and the Gov- 

ernment of India, Ministry of Commerce 

3. PreSH ttons 5 55 and Industries Import Control Order 

Made in Germany) 140 bundles No. 17/55, dated 7th December, 1955 issued 

under the Imports and Exports (Coptrol) 
4, fluty ba s which Act. 1947 and deemed to firme been issued 

contained the goods. 9 bags under the Imports and Exports (Control) 

. 1878, Now therefore, any per-on claiming 




Sfcc, 8 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3525 


the goods is hereby called upon to show cause to the Deputy Collector of Central 
Excise and Land Customs Bombay why the above mentioned goods should not be 
confiscated under section 5(3) of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with section 
167(8) of the Sea Customs Act 1878 and the gunny bags under section 168 of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878, and why a penalty should not be imposed on him under 
section 7(1) (c'i of the Land Customs Act, 1924 read with section 167(8) of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878, 

If such an owner fails to turn up to claim the above mentioned unclaimed goods 
or to cause against the action proposed to be taken within 30 days from the publi- 
cation of this notice in the Government of India Gazettc/Maharasbtra Govern- 
ment Gazette, the goods in question will be treated as unclaimed and case will be 
decided accordingly. 


[No. VIII (b) 10 (50)Cus./0O.] 
S. M. BIJAW ARGI, 

Deputy Collector of Central Excise 
and Land Customs Bombay. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1960 

S.O. 3006. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in Textiles (Production by Handloom) Control 
Order, I960, namely:— 

1. This order may be called the Textiles (Production by Handloom) Control 
Amendment Order, 1900. 

2. In the Textiles (Production by Handloom) Control Order, 1956 (hereinafter 
called as the said order), in sub-Clause (b) of clause 2 for the words "or man- 
made cellulosic or non-cellulosic spun fibre yarn”, the words "or man-made 
cellulosic or non-cellulosic filament yarn of silk yarn” shall be substituted. 

3. In sub-clause (IA) of clause 4 of the said Order, for the words and figures 
."shall apply on or before the 31st December, 1960”, the words and figures “shall 
apply on or before the 3lst March, 1961” shall he substituted. 

4. For Form ‘A’ appended to the said Order the following Form-A shall be 
substituted, namely:— 

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF A HANDLOOM 

1. Name and full address of the applicant. 

2. Age. 

3. Exact location of the Handloom. 

4. Total No. of Handlooms in the possession of 

the applicant. 

5. No. of Handlooms which are actually being 

worked on the date of the application: — 

(i) With Cotton yarn 

(ii) With Silk yam 

(iii) With Woollen yarn 

(iv) With Art Silk or Staple Fibre yarn 

(v) Other Kinds of yarn 

6. Description of the Loom. 

Whether the Loom is:— 

(i) Throw shuttle pit loom. 

(li) Fly shuttle pit loom, 

(iii) Throw Shuttle frame loom. 



$$z6 THE GAZETTE of INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1900/AGRAHAVAnA 26, 1882 [Eart It 

(iv) Fly shuttle frame loom. 

(v) Hatterseley loom. 

(vl) Semi-automatic loom. 

(vii) Of any other kind, if soi, of what description: 

7. Number and date of Registration Certificate 
already held, if any 


DECLARATION 

1 hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this application Is 
true to my knowledge and belief. 

Date 


(Signature of the applicant). 

[No. 4(79)Tcx‘C759.] 
A, G. V. SUBRAHMANIAM, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 

S.0. 3007/DDRA/6/15.— In pursuance of Clause (c) of Rule 2 of the Develop- 
ment Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shrl S. L. Venkateahwaran, Development Officer, Development Wing, New Delhi, 
as the Secretary to the Development Council established by the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.O. 2877, 
dated the 28th November, 1960 for the scheduled industries engaged in the manu- 
facture or production of Organic Chemicals with effect from the 28th November, 
1960. 


[No. 1(3)IA(IV)/60.1 
D. HEJMADI, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 13 th December 1960 

S.O, 3008|IDKA|18G|43[60. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following Order to amend the Cement 
Control Order 1958, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Cement Control (Fifth Amendment) 

Order, 1960. 

2. In the Schedule to the Cement Control Order, 1958— 

(1) for the entry against serial No. 18, the following entry shall be substi- 
tuted, namely; — 


Name of producer 


Price per Metric Tonne 


“18. M/s, Panyam Cements and Mineral Industries 73-32 (73-70)”; 

Ltd., Betamacherla. 


(2") at the end, the following note shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Note,— T he price specified within brackets against serial No, 18 above is 
the price per British Ton for the period beginning from the 1st Janu- 
ary. 1960, and ending on the 90th September, 1960”. 

[No. Cem-8(34)/60.] 

M. L. GUPTA, Under Secy. 



Sf-C. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19G0/AGRAI-IAYANA £ 6 , 1882 3527 


(Office of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing' Area) 

NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 15 th September 1960 

S.O. 3009. — It is hereby notified, that in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause 9 of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, the Government of India, In the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel the import Licence No. 
A781314!60|AUICCI|D, dated 20th May, 1960 valued at Rs. 1,259 for import of 
(1) Silica Heathers suitable for 3' deep Tanks— Rs. 766 (2) Immersion heathers, 
Steel cases suitable for 3' deep Tanks — Rs. 493 from Soft Currency Area except 
union of South Africa, granted by the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, (Central Licensing Area), New Delhi, to M/s. Marshall Industries of 
India, 17-A Najafgarh Road, Industrial Area, New Delhi, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
(Central Licensing Area), New Delhi, within ten days of the date of issue of this 
notice by the said M/s. Marshall Industries of India, 17-A Najafg'arh Road, In- 
dustrial Area, New Delhi, or any Bank, or any other party, who may be interested 
in it. 

2, In view of what is stated above, M/s. Marshall Industries of India, 17-A, 
Najafgarh Road, Industrial Area, New Delhi, or any Bank, or any other party, 
who may be interested in the said licence No, A781314/60/AU7CCI/D. dated 20th 
May, I960, are hereby directed not to enter into any commitments against the 
said licence. 

M/s. Marshall Industries of India 

17-A Najafgarh Road, Industrial Area. 

New Delhi. 


rNo. Geol/242/2-60/Pol/CLA.] 

RAM MURTI SHARMA, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

ERRATUM 

In column 3 of the Schedule annexed to the Ministry of Commerce & Industry 
(Indian Standards Institution) Notification No. S.O. 2498, appearing on page 3028, 
in the Gazette of India, Part II — Section 3, Sub-Section (ii) dated the 15th October 
1960, please read, — 

T 5-10-60 to 14-10-61* In place of ‘15-9-60 to 14-9-61’. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS 
(Department of Transport) 

(Roads Wing) 

New Delhi, the 16th November 1960 

(To be substituted for the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Transport and Communications ( Department of Transport) ( Roads Wing) 
No. S.O. 2825. dated the 15 th November 1960, published at page 3381 in 
Part II — Section 3— Sub-section, (ii) of the Gazette of India, dated the 26 th 
November 1960.) 

S.O. 3010. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the National 
Highways Act, 1956 (48 of 1956). the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment in the notification of the Government of India m the 



3528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1'JGO/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 [Pa nr II 


Ministry of Transport No, S.R.O. 1181, dated the 4th April 1957, published in 
Part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated the 13th April 1957, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification, for Serial No. 4 and the entries against 
it in column 2 and 3, the following serial numbers and entries shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: 

"4. So much of national highways No. 3, No. 4, No. 0, 

No. 7, No. 8 and No. 9 situated within the State 
of Maharashtra and national highway No. 50. 

State Government 
of Maharashtra. 

4A. So much of national highway No. 8 as is situated 
within the State of Gujarat and national 
highways No, 8A and No. 8B. 

State Government 
of Gujarat.” 

[No. PL-0(l)/6O.l 

BRIJ RAT AN LAL, Under. Secy. 

(Department of Communications and Civil Aviation) 

(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 3rd December 1960 

S.O. 3011.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian Tele- 
graph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules to amend the Indian Telegraph Rules 1951, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Telegraph (Amendment') Rules, 

1960. 

2. After rule 450 of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, the following rule 

shall be inserted namely: 

“450-A Credit for difficulties encountered on Subscriber Trunk Dialled (S.T.D.) 
Calls. 

Should a subscriber experience difficulty on Subscriber Dialled Trunk Calls 
due to connection to wrong numbers, double connections, or uncommercial speech, 
resulting in his being charged even though he has not been able to make use of 
the S.T.D. calls, the following procedure will apply for grant of credit: — 

(a) An operator on receiving a complaint relating to S.T.D. calls such as 

connection to wrong number or engaged trunk or uncommercial 
speech on a properly effected connection, will suggest setting up of 
the call on a manual basis. 

(b) If the caller refuses this service, no charge reduction will be granted. 

(c) If the caller agrees, the call will be booked and put through on a 

manual basis, according to its turn with other booked calls. The 
call will then be charged at usual manual rates, and the charges and 
other conditions prescribed in rules 447, 448, 449, 450 and 451 shall be 
applicable. 

(cT) A rebate - equivalent To one minute S.T.D., charge will be granted on 
manually completed calls set up under (c) above. The I’ebate will 
not be admissible, if for any reason the call is not completed 
manually.” 

[No. 7-104/60-PHT.] 

DINSHAW F. D. JOSHI, 
Director of Telegraph Traffic. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 30 th November 1960 

S.O. 3012. — hr exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 
of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925), the Central Government hereby 



Sec. S(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 17, 1 % 0 /ACRA H AYAN A 26, 1882 3529 

directs that the name of the following Institution be added to the Schedule to the 
said Act, namely: — 

The School of Planning and Architecture, New Delhi. 

[No. F. (18-2) /60-T-l.l 
H. S. SHAHANI, 

Asstt. Educational Adviser (T) 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 1th December 1960 

S.O. 3013. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule ( 2 ) of Rule 133 of 
the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of — 

(i) Rule 118 (a') 

(ii) Rule 119(1) (a) 

(iii’) Rule 50(1) (d) 

(iv) Rule 118(c) 

(v) Rule 123(7) 

of the said Rules shall be relaxed in respect of the use of the following apparatus 
In conjunction with Model 110 B, Bucyrus Eric, 4i cu. yd., 3 ■ 3 K, V.; shovel serial 
No. 118515: 

One 200 H. P., 3300 volts, Westinghouse, Induction motor, serial No. 2S,-59. 

One 200 H. P., 3 3 K, V., General Electric auto transformer starter, name 
plate details DC. 9194F6; DL. 2231700 G. 32; W/s. 3323743. 

One 5 K. V. A., 3300/480/240. volts, single phase, Hipersil transformer, 
serial No. 59 E 11169. 

One 5 K. V. A., 3300/480/240 volts, single phase, Hipersil transformer, serial 
No. 59E 11170. 

One 5 K. V. A., 3300/480/240 volts, single phase, Hipersil transformer, serial 
No. 59E 11171. 

One 7- 5 K. V. A., 3600/240/120 volts, single phase, Hipersil transformer, 
serial No. 59E 11187. 

One length of 660 feet; four core, pliable wire armoured T.R.S. polychlore- 
prene, consisting of three power cores and one earth chloroprene 
cradel separator, polychloroprcne sheathed, galvanised steel strand 
armoured, one tough rubber or polychloroprene sheathed overall; 3300 
volts grade, conductor of • 0225 sq. inch, minimum cross section. 

One 50 amps, 3300 volts, type F/X125/DO, Reyrolle switch, serial No. 29SF 
1077. 

at Gidi ‘A’ colliery of Messrs National Coal Development Corporation Ltd,, to the 
extent that (1) in relaxation of Rule 118(0), the portable motor of the shovel may 
be used at 3’3 K. V. (2) in relaxation of Rule 119(1) (a), the bank of three single 
phase, 5 K. V. A.. 3300/480/240 volts transformers connected in delta/delta and 
single phase 7' 5 K. V. A., 3600/240/120 volts transformer with their associated 
equipment using energy at high voltage may not be fixed apparatus as, being in- 
stalled on the portable shovel moving from place to place, Ihe same have a port- 
able sense, (3) in relaxation of Rule 50(1’) (d), there being no linked switches for 
control of 3'3 K. V., supply to the transformers Installed on the shovel the 3'3 K. V. 
supply to same may be controlled by the individually operated link-fums as pro- 
vided by the manufacturers, (4’1 in relaxation of Rule 118(c), the 120 volts system 
of supply intended for use for lighting purposes within the shovel from the single 
phase 7-5 K. V. A., 3600/240/120 volts lighting transformer having no mid vobage 
point for earthing and as such the voltage of the system being obtained between 
a phase and earth and not between phases as contemplated in Rule 118(c), the 120 
volts system of supply is specially considered and may be used, and ( 5 ) the length 



3530 the gazette or India : December 17, i9go/agrahayana 26, 1882 [P\kt 11 


of the flexible cable with the portable machine may not exceed 660 feet and that 
tho relaxation shall be subiect to the following conditions: 

(1) The 3:3 K. V. supply to the flexible cable should be provided with earth- 

leakage protecLion. 

(2) The installations and wirings inside the shovel shall comply with the 

relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, in particular, 
rules 115, 117, 121, 124 and 125. 

(3') The flexible trailing cable should be connected to the Electricity supply 
system and the machine by properly constructed connector boxes or 
totally enclosed safe attachments. 

(4) The excavating machine along with the flexible trailing cable shall be 

worked and handled with due care so as to avert danger arising out 
of any elcclrical defect or in the use and the insulation resistance of 
the high voltage circuit including the driving motor, shall at no time 
be less than 10 megohms. 

(5) The operators of the shovel shall be trained and authorised for operat- 

ing the shovel with competency and due care to avoid danger. 

Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be vaild for such time as the 
said machine is in use in the mine and due information shall be given to the Cen- 
tral Government through the Electrical Inspector of Minos as soon as the machine 
is taken out of the mine. 


[No. EL. II-3(15)/60.] 


New Delhi , the 9th December 1900 

S.O. 3014. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of Rule 133 of 
the Indian Electricity Rules, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that 
the provisions of — • 

(i) Rule 118 (a’), 

(ii) Rule 119(1) (a), 

(iii'l Rule 50(1) (d), and 
(iv) Rule 123 (7), 

of the said Rules shall be relaxed in respect of the use of the following apparatus 
in conjunction with Model 4101, 3.3 K.V„ Marion Shovel, serial No. 22109. 

One 300 H.P., 3300 volts, M-G Set motor, serial No, 16N9422. 

One 10 K.V.A., single phase, 3300/240 volts, transformer, serial No. 0OB- 
15768. 

One 10 K.V.A., single phase, 3300/240 volts, transformer, serial No, 60B- 
15709. 

One 10 K.V.A., 3300/240 volts, single phase, transformer, serial No. 60B- 
15770. 

One length of 1000 feet of flexible trailing cable as per specification No. 
CS1455 four conductor type Okonex " shielded okoprene cable 6,000 
volts grade overall dia 1 ■ 710" to 1 ' 750". 0/04 wall Okoprene 

sheath. I Braid 0-0126 Galvanised steel wire 35 oer cent, coverage 
5/64" wall Okoprene inner Jacket layer 0.40". 3 conductors cabled 

each with layer rubber filled colour tape; one green cotton braided 
ground wire; with rubber needle fillers with one 200 amps, 5,000 
volts, 3 pole, type ST., isolator, serial No. S-0567. 

at Kathara Colliery open Cast mine of Messrs Natlonul Coal Development Cor- 
poration Ltd., to the extent that (1) in relaxation of Rule 113(a) (he portable 
motor of the shovel may be used at 3-3 K, V (2T) in relaxation of Rule 119(1) 

- th ^ bank of three single phase, 10 KV. 3300/240 volts transformers, connect- 
ed in dena/star with their associated equipment nsc in energv at high voltage 
inay not be fixed apparatus; as being installed on the portable shovel moving 
Trom place to place, the same have u portable sense, (3) in relaxation of Rule 
50(1) (d) there being no linked switches for control of 3' 3 K.V,, supply to the 
transformers installed on the shovel, the 3- 3 K, V„ supply to same may be con- 
irollcd by the individually operated link-fuses as provided by the manufacturers, 
(4) m relaxation of Rule 1-3(7), flexible cable not exceeding 1,000 feet in 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 196U/AGRAHAYANA 26, 18S2 3531 


length may be used with the portable machine, and lhaL the relaxation shall be 
subject to the following conditions: 

(1) The Installations and wirings inside the shovel shall comply with the 
relevant provisions of the Indian Electricity Rules, 1966, in parti- 
cular rules 115-117, 121, 124 and 125. 

(21 The 3:3 K. V., supply to the flexible cable should be provided with 
earth-leakage protection. 

(3) The flexible trailing cable should be connected to the electricity 

supply system and the machine by properly constructed connector 
boxes or totally enclosed safe attachment. 

(4) The excavating machine along with the flexible trailing cable shall be 

worked and handled with due care so as to avert danger arising out 
of any electrical defect or in the use and the insulation resistance of 
the high voltage circuit, including the driving motor, shall at no time 
be less than 10 megohms. 

(S') The operators of the shovel shall be trained and authorised for operat- 
ing the shovel with competency and due care to avoid danger. 

(6) The particulars of the protection for the 300 H.P., 3,300 volts, M. G., 
set motor shall be furnished to the Electrical Inspector of Mines 
when application for approval to bring the shovel into use is made 
to him. 

Provided that the aforesaid relaxation shall be valid for such time as the said 
machine is in use in the mine and due information shall be given to the Central 
Government through the Electrical Inspector of Mines as soon as the machine is 
taken out of the mine. 


(No. EL-II-3 (34) /60.J 

N. S. VASANT, 

Officer on Special Duty. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

Neio Delhi , the 8th December 1960 

S.O. 3015. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Public 
Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1968 (32 of 1968), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply 
No. S.O. 494, dated the 16th February, 1960, namely:— 

In the table below notification No. 494, dated 16th February 1960, in column 
1 against Serial No. 4 substitute the words 'Assistant Director’ for 
‘Officer-in-charge’ appearing before the words ‘Salar Jung Museum 
and Library, Hyderabad.’ 


[No. 14/3/60-Acc.] 


New Delhi, the 12 th December 1960 

S. O. 3016. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction 
of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958), tlie Central Government hereby appoints 
the officers mentioned in column 1 of the table below, being gazetted officers of Government 
to be estate officers for the purposes of the said Act who shall exercise the powers conferred, itnd 
perform the duties imposed on estate officers by or under the said Act within the local limits of 
their respective jurisdiction in respect of the public premises specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 3 of the said table. 



3532 the gazette of India : December 1 ?, 1960 /AgrahAyana 26 , 1S82 [Part ri 


The Table 


Designation of Officers Categories of public premises and local limits of 

jurisdiction 


Executive Engineer, Calcutta Central Di- 
vision No. IV, Central Public Works De- 
partment, Calcutta. 

Premises under the administrative control of the 
C.P.W.D. situated within the local limits Of his 
jurisdiction. 

Executive Engineer, Madras Central 
Division (North), C.P.W.D., Madras. 

Do, 

Executive Engineer, Madras (Central 
Division (South), Central P.W.D., Mad- 
ias. 

Do 

Executive Engineer Coimbatore Central 
Division, C.P.W.D., Coimbatore (South- 
ern Railway). 

Do. 

Executive Engineer, Nagpur Central 
Division, Central Public Works Depart- 
ment, Nagpur. 

Do. 


[No. 14/3/60-Acc,] 

N. VISVANATHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi , the 7th December 1960 

S O 3011.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (i) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 
of 1964') the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. P. Kashyap as Assis- 
tant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office. 

[No. 8(227) /Admn.(R') (G) /CSC/CO.] 
New Delhi , the 8th December 1960 

SO 3018. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
13 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1964), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Rajeshwar Singh PhoOlka, 
Deputy Secretary, Rehabilitation Department, Punjab Government to be a 
.Settlement Commissioner in the State of Punjab, for the purpose of performing, 
in addition to his own duties as Deputy Secretary, Punjab Government the 
functions assigned to a Settlement Commissioner by or under the said Act, in 
respect of agricultural lands and shops in any rural area including houses, cattle 
sheds and vacant sites, if any, in any such area allotted alongwith any such lands 
and forming part of the Compensation Pool. 

[No. F. 3(51) /Pol-II/60-Lands.] 
New Delhi, the 12th December 1960 

S O 3019 — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 

1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R. S. D. Srivastava as Assis- 
tant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office. 


[No. 8/229/ AR(Per/CSC/60.] 



Sfct. 3(H)] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 19G0/AGRAHAVANA 26, 1882 3533 


S.O. 3020, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 19501, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints for the State of Rajasthan, Shri G. R. Jetley 
for 11 h lime being lidding the post of Managing Officer m the office of the 
Regional Settlement Commissioner, Jaipur, as Assistant Cus.odian for ’.he pur- 
pose of discharging the duties assigned to the Custodian by or under the said 
Act with effect from the date he took over charge of his office. 

[No. 4 ( 7 l'j Admn. (Prop) /58/ARG.J 

S.O. 3021 .—In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (i) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954). the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B. C. Nigam as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he took charge of his 
office. 


[No. 8(228) /Admn. (R) (G) /CSC/81),] 


S.O. 3022. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Sectiou (i) of Section 
8 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints for the State of Maharashtra, Shri R. P. Kulsere- 
stha, Assistant Settlement Officer In the office of the Regional Settlement Com- 
missioner, Bombay as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging ihe 
duties imposed on Custodian by or under the said Act with effect 11 om the date 
he took over charge of his office. 

S.O. 3023. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Cub-Section (i) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation arid Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Din Dyal Jam as 
Assistant Settlement Office!’, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act with effect from the date he 100 k 
charge of his office. 

[No. 8 (230) /Admn. (R) /60.] 
KANWAK BAHADUR, 
Settlement Commissioner (A) and 

Ex-Officio Dy. Secy. 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, ihe 8 ih December 1080 

S.O, 3024. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of Section 
34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, I, S. W. 
Shiveshwarkar, hereby delegate to Shri Rujeshwar Singh Phoolka, Settlement 
Commissioner, Punjab, the powers conferred upon me under Section 23, 24 and 
28 of the said Act for the purpose of passing necessary orders under these 
Sections in so far as they relate to the custody, management and disposal of 
property (including agricultural land) in the State of Punjab in a rural area 
as defined in clause (f) of rule 2 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and 
Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, which forms part of the Compensation Pool, 

TNo. 3 ( 51 )Pol-II/60-Lands. J 
S. W. SHIVESHWARKAR, 
Chief Settlement Commissioner, 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 9 ih December 1960 

S.O. 3025. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), and in super- 
session of the notification of the Government of India in tbe late Department of 
Labour No, LW,1 (4)47(2), dated the 14th June, 1047, the Central Government 



3534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, I960 /AGRA HA YANA 26, 1882 [Part II 


hereby fixes, with effect on and from the first January, 1961, the duty of excise 
on all coal and coke despatched from collieries in the territories to which the 
said Act extends, at 49-21 n.P. (Fortynine decimal two one naye paise) per metric 
tonne. 


[No, 4(18)0O-MII.l 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1960 

S.O. 3026.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
5 of the Mines Act, 1952, (35 of 1952), 'he Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Kamalendu Paul, an officer of the Office of the Chief Inspector of Mines, to 
be an Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector. 


LNo. MI-8 (88) /58.] 
A. P, VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 12 th December 1960 

S.O. 302". — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dbanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine and their workmen. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 39 of 1960 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine 

ANB 


Their workmen 

Dhanbad, dated the 29th November i960 


Present; 

Shri G. Pallt, M.A.B.L., Chairman, Centra) Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad. 

No appearance on either side. 

State: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment, by its Order 
No. 2Q/2/60-LRII, dated the 18th August 1960 made in exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of the Industrial Dispute* 
Act, 1947 (XIV of 47), referred the aforesaid dispute to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad presided over by me for adjudication concerning 
the matters as per schedule below:— 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Salaiya No. 2 Mica Mine, in 
discharging Shri Braj Kishore Choubey, Compressor driver, with effect 
from 12th November 1959, was justified? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled?” 

2. I need not go into the facts involved in the present case because the parties 
have filed a joint petition of compromise by which the management has agreed 
to pay Rs. 248 (Rupees two hundred and fortyeight) only by way of full and final 
settlement of all dues of Shri Choubey and that ahe claim for re-employment is 
dropped. 

3. As the said petition of compromise was not supported by any affidavit or 
on any other evidence in support of its genuineness, the Tribunal called upon the 
parties to address it hy way of confirmation of the said agreement Thr- manage- 
ment by its letter No. CH-4803/60, dated 26th November 1960 has affirmed the 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1900/ AGRAIIAYANA 26, 1882 3535 


agreement arrived at on 29th October 1960 with its contents. So I pass an award 
in terms of the said petition of compromise which is incorporated as a part of the 
present award. It is embodied in appendix. 

Dhanbad, 

The 29th November, I960. 

(Sd.) G. Palit, Chairman, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 
Appendix 

Before the Chairman, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 
Reference No. 39 of 1960 

Parties. Employers In relation to Salatya No. 2 Mica Mine of M/s. Chatturam 
Horilram Private Ltd. 


AND 

Their workmen represented by Abrakh Mazdoor Union. 

May it please the Tribunal, we, the parties to the above dispute, have reached 
the following settlement and pray that an Award be kindly made thereof. 

The Union does not claim for the re-employment of Shri Braj Kishore Chaubey. 
The Management agrees to pay Rs. 248 (Rupees Two hundred and forty eight) 
only in way of the full and final settlement of dues of Shri Chaubey, aB claimed by 
the Union and the amount in question has already been paid to Shri Chaubey in 
presence of the General Secretary of the Union. 

On behalf of workmen. 


Sd/- Harish Chandra Mishra, 
General Secretary, 

Abarakh Mazdoor Union, 
Jhumritelaiya (P.O.), 
Kodarma, E. Rly. 


On behalf of Employers. 
Sd/- 


D.B. 


The 29 th November, I960. 


M/s. Chatturam Horilram (P) Ltd., 
Jhumritelaiva (P.O.), Kodarma, 
E. Rly. 


Accepted. 

(Sd.) G, Palit, Chairman, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 


I No. 20/2/60-LRII.l 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 7th December I960 

S.O. 3028.— Whereas the Centra] Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Palana Colliery and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government, considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the poivers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Delhi, constituted under section 7A of the said Act 



3536 the gazette oe india : December 17, 1960/agrahayana 26, isa 2 [part 11 


Schedule 

Whether the termination of employment, with effect from 1st September, 1958 
by the management of Palana Colliery of Shri Abhey Nath, ex-bonus clerk, was 
justified, and if not, to what relief he is entitled. 


[No. 2/148/60-LRII.] 

S.O. 3029. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Union Co-operative Insur- 
ance Society Limited, Bombay, and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute; for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

1. Whether the pay scales of (a) clerical staff, i.e. Assistants (junior and 

senior) and Stenographers; (b) Sectional heads; and (c) Sub-staff, 
such as peons, sweepers, bearers, etc. are satisfactory? If not, what 
modifications are necessary and what relief should be granted to the 
employees and from which date after 22nd September, 1958? 

2. Whether the rates of Dearness Allowance paid to the employees, are 

adequate? If not, to what relief are the employees entitled and from 
which date after 22nd September, 1958? 

3 . Whether the existing scheme of gratuity is satisffetory? If not, what 

modifications are necessary? 

4. Whether the procedure provided in the existing services rules in regard 

to disciplinary action, appeals, transfers, etc,, is satisfactory? If not, 
what modifications are necessary? 

[No. 11(37) /59-LRIL] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7lh December 1960 

S.O. 3030 — In the Schedule to the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S.O. 2747, dated the 7th November, 1960, 
published on pages 3329-3330 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated 
the 12th November, 1960 — 

(i) against Serial Number 10, for “Shri Mahadin Ahir” read “Shri Matadin 

Abir". 

(ii) against Serial Number 11, for “Shri Prakash Passi” read “Shri Pargas 

Passi”. 

(ill) against Serial Number 13, for “Shri Nathain Passi” read “Shri Nathai 
Passi”. 

(iv) against Serial Number 21, for “Shri Kali Passi No. 2” read “Shri Kalu 
Passi No. II”. 

(v) against Serial Number 25, for “Shri Nabratan Koirl” read “Shri 
Nurottom Koiri”. 

(vi) against Serial Number 27, for “Shri Changru Kumhar” read “Shri 
Changulal Kumar”. 


TNo. 2/219/60-LRII.j 

S. N. TULSIANI, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 17, 1960/AGRAHAYANA 26, 1882 3537 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi , the 9th December 1960 

S.O. 3031 . — It is notified for general information that consequent upon the 
abolition of the Delhi Section of the Advisory Panels of the Central Board of 
Film Censors, Shrimati Madalsa Sriman Narayan will cease to be member of the 
Bombay Advisory Panel with immediate effect. 

[No. F. 11 / 1 / 59 -FC.] 

S.O. 3032 . — It is notified for general information that the following persons 
have retired from the membership of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board 
of Film Censors at Bombay, Calcutta and Madras with effect from the dates shown 
against them : — 



Name 

Date of retirement 

Name of Panel 

1 . 

Shri Krishna Kripalani 

z8-8~6o 

Bombay Panel 

2* 

Smt. Manoraina Singh 

28*8-60 

-do- 

3 ‘ 

Shri Mahendra Nath 

28-8-60 

-do- 

4 . 

Smt, Chandravati Lakhanpal 

2I-II-60 

-do- 

5 - 

Shri Radha Raman, M.P. 

30-9-60 

-do- 

6. 

Shri Banarsi Das Chaturvedi, 

M.P. 30-9-60 

-do- 

?■ 

Shri Gopi Nath A nan 

16-10-60 

Madras Panel 

8. 

Smt. D.L. Mazu ndar 

30-10-60 

-do- 

9- 

Shri Tajanial Hussain, M.P. 

28-9-60 

Calcutta Panel 


[No. F. 11 / 1 / 59 -FC.] 
S. PADMANABHAN, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OP INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1960 






