TRET FO $ 222 


REGISTERED NO, 0 -211 


सत्यमेव जयते 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

Af furtit, aferare, TaFr 13, 1965 ( fare 22, 1887) 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


L 


-LLLL 


LINE 


160 


po 42 ] 
No. 42] 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके 
Separate paging is gven to this part in order that it may be filled as a separate compilation 


TT III - 083 
PART III — SECTION 3 

लघु प्रशासनों से संबंधित अधिसूचनाएं 
Notifications relating to Minor Administrations 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Company Affairs & Insurance 

(Company Law Board ) 

Office of the Registrar of Companies 
In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 , and of 

Pondy Bone Mills Private Limited 

Pondicherry , the 28th October 1965 
No. C .54 Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub - section ( 5 ) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Pondy Bone Mills Private Limit 
ed has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said company is dissolved . 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 , and of 

Majestic Transport Private Limited 

Pondicherry , the 28th October 1965 
No. 58 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub -section (5 ) of section 560 of the Companies Act , 
1956 that the name of Majestic Transport Private Limit 
ed has this day been struck off the Register and the said 
company is dissolved . 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN & DIU 

Finance Department 
Panjim , the 20th November 1964 
No, FS/ F . III/ 11-118 / 64 / 20583 — In pursuance of the 
provisions contained in sections 5 and 8 of the Goa , 
Daman and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964, Government 
hereby prescribes the maximum quantity of liquor which 
can be transported from one place to another within 
this territory or , as the case may be, possessed by any 
person , without a permit issued in accordance with the 
provisions of the said Act and the Rules made thereunder : 

12 quart bottles of Indian made foreign liquor other 
than beer and 24 Bottles of beer for any person includ 
ing his family . 

12 quart bottles of country liquor for any person 
including his family . 

6 quart bottles of denatured spirit and 2 quart bottles 
of rectified spirit or absolute alcohol. 

By order and in the name of the 
Lieutenant Governor of Goa , Daman & 

Diu , 
The 30th March 1965 
No. FS / F . III / 2 - 35 / 64 / 226 -DA / 65 - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 42 of 
Goa , Daman , and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964 , the Go 
vernment hereby exempts the import of denatured spirit 
by all Hospitals in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman 
and Diu from the payment of countervailing duty of 
excise if any, leviablo thereon as well as permit fee 
prescribed for import licence. 

T , B . NAGARAJAN 

Finance Secretary 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 , and of 

Ramakrishna Industries Private Limited 

Pondicherry , the 29th October 1965 
No. 17 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub -section (5 ) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Ramakrishna Industries Private 
Limited has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said company is dissolved , 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956 , and of 

Panjin , the 12th July 1965 
Friends Union Transport Private Limited 

No. FS / F . 111/ 2 - 357 part)65-- - In partial modification 
Pondicherry, the 29th October 1965 

of Notification No. FS / F .JII / 11- 118 / 64 / 20583 dated the 
No. 37 -- Notice is bereby given pursuant to 

20th November, 1964 and in pursuance of the provision 
sub -section (5 ) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 

contained in Section 8 of the Goa, Daman and Diu 
1956 that the name of Friends Union Transport Limited 

Excise Duty Act, 1964, the Government hereby pros 
has this day been struck off the Register and the said 

cribes the maximum quantity of country liquor which 
company is dissolved . 

can be possessed by any person , without permit issued 

in accordance with the provisions of the said Act and 
N . KRISHNAMURTHI 

the Rules made thereunder : 
Registrar of Companies, 

18 quart bottles of country liquor for any person 

Pondicherry including his family , 
M328GI/65 

( 117 ) 


118 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


(PART IIT - Sec . 3 


Panjim , the 10th September 1965 
No. FD / F .N112- 36 / 1093 / part/ 65 — In exercise of tho 
powers conferred by Section 36 of the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 and all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf the Government hereby makes the following 
amendment to the Goa , Daman and Diu Sules Tax 
Rules , 1964 the same having been previously published 
as required by the said section , 
1 . These rules be called " the Goa , Daman and Diu 

Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Rules , 1965 " . 
2 . For Rule 15 (6 ) of the said rules the following shall 

be substituted . 
" In calculating the taxable turnover, a registered 
dealer , besides other deductions referred to in the 

Act and those rules , may also deduct from his 
gross turnover the amount in respect of sales other 
than liquor and other alcholic beverages of Canteen 

Stores which are shown to the satisfaction of the 
• Assessing Authority to have been made to the mem 

bers of Armed Forces of the Indian Union stationed 
in the territory , when such sales are made by re 
gimental or unit -run Canteens , and provided that 
the Stores are obtained from the Canteen Stores 
Department ( India ) and their sales price does not 
exceed the sale price fixed by the Quarter Master " . 

By order and in the name of the Ad 
ministrator of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

V . S . SRINIVASAGOPALAN 

Dy. Secretary ( Finance ) 


This Notification comes into force with immediate 
effect. 

By order and in the name of the Ad 

ministrator of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

The 10th September 1965 
No. FS/ F .III / 2 - 35 / part/ 1768 /65 - In exercise of tho 
powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 42 of the 
Goa , Damun , and Diu Excise Duty Act , 1964 , the Go 
vernment hereby exempt from payment of excise duty 
all kinds of liquor when offered as gift to the Armed 
Forces of India . 

This notification comes into force with effect from 10th 
September, 1965 . 

The 17th September 1965 
No. FS/ F .111/ 2 - 35 / part / 1572 / 65 - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause ( i) of Section 2 of the Goa , 
Daman and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964 and clause ( f ) of 
Rule 2 of the Goa Daman and Diu Excise Duty Rules , 
1964 , the Government hereby declares “ Vodka " as Indian 
made foreign liquor, 

No. FD / F . III / 2 - 35 / part/ 1327/ 65 - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 36 of the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 and all other powers enabling 
it in that behalf the Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Ruleg 1964 the same having been previouly published 
as required by the said section . 

1. These rules may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Sales Tax ( First Amendment) Rules , 1965 , 

2 . For rule 22 of the said rules the following shall te 
substituted : 

22 , Issue of cash memos or bills in respect of taxable 
goods sold by the dealer, 

In respect of every sale of taxable goods made by 
him a registered dealer shall , except as hereinafter pro 
vided issue a cash memo or bill and retain the duplicate 
of such bill or cash memo which shall be serially num 
bered , duly signed and dated and shall show separately 
the price of the goods sold and the amount realised by 
Way of tax : 

Provided , however , that when the price of the taxable 
goods sold in any one transaction is below Rs. 2 a dealer 
may , except when demanded by a customer , refrain from 
issuing a cash memo or bill as aforesaid but shall instead 
prepare a consolidated cash memo at the close of the 
day in respect of all such sales by recording them sepa 
rately as and when they are effected , 

By order and in the name of the Ad 

ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu . 

The 20th September 1965 
No, FD / F111 / 2 - 35 / part/ 1327 /65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 22 of the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Excise duty Act, 1964 , the Government hereby askes 
the following additional rulc to " The Goa , Daman and 
Diu ( Excise Duty ) Rules, 1964" . 

Rule 122 : Deluy in paynient of licence fees . 

When any annual licence fee or its instalment , as the 
case may be , is not paid within the period prescribed 
under these Rules, it shall be lawful to collect from the 
licences an additional amount equivalent to 2 % of such 
licence fee or instalment for each month of delay or its 
fraction or rupee one whichever is higher , without preju 
dice to Clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 16 of 
the principal Act. 

By order and in the pane of the Ad 

ministrator of Goa , Daman and Diu , 

The 28th September 1965 
No. FD / F .111 / 2 - 36 / part / 1630 / 65 - - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub -Section ( 2 ) of Section 10 of the 
Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964, read with 
Notification No. 7 / 3 / 65 -UTL of the Government of 
India , Ministry of Home Affairs, dated 14th April , 1965 
the Administrator of Goa, Daman and Diu hereby makes 
the following addition to the entries in the Second 
Schedule to the said Act . 
" Tractors " . 

By order and in the name of the Ad 
ministrator of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

N . SUBRAMANIAN 

Finance Secretary 


Legislatore Department 

Panjim , the 16th September 1964 
No. LA / 763/ 64 .- - The following Act passed by the 
Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu received 
the assent of the President of India on the 2nd Septem 
ber 1964 , and is hereby published for general informa 
tion . 
THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU SALES TAX ACT, 

1964 
No. 4 of 1964 [2nd September 1964 ) 
An Act to impose a tax on the sale of goods in Goa , 
Daman and Diu and to provide for matters connected 
therewith . 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa , 
Daman and Diu in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic 
of India , as follows : 
Short title, extent and commencement, 

1 . ( 1 ) This Act may be called the Goa , Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964, 

(2 ) It extends to the wholc of the Union Terri 
tory of Goa , Daman and Diu , 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the 
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
appoint and different dates may be appointed for 
different areas or different goods, 
Definitions . 

2 . In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires 

( a ) " Commissioner" means the Commissioner of 
Sales Tax appointed under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 ; 

( b ) " dealer " means any person who carries on the 
business of selling goods in Goa, Daman and Diu and 
includes , the Government of India , or of any State , or of 
any Union Territory . 

Explanation 1 , A Hindu undivided family, a firm and 
any other association of persons whether incorporated or 
not will be deemed to be a person for the purpose of 
this definition . 

Explanation 2 . A co -operative society or a club or 
any association of persons, which sells goods to its mem 
bors is a dealer; 

Explanation 3 . A factor , a broker, a commission agent, 
delcredere agent, an auctioneer or any other mercantile 
agent, by whatever name called , and whether of the 
same description as hereinbefore mentioned or not, who 
carries on the business of selling goods and who 
has, in the customary course of business, authority to 
sell goods belonging to a principal, is a dealer ; 


PART III - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


119 


ESSE 


hallº melasses of a deale 


Explanation 4 . The manager or an agent in Goa, 
Daman and Diu , of a dealer who resides outside Goa , 
Daman and Diu but carries on the business of selling 
goods in Goa, Daman and Diu shall , in respect of such 
business , be deemed to be a dealer ; 

( c ) " Goa , Daman and Diu " means the Union Tor 
ritory of Goa , Daman and Diu ; 

(d ) " goods" includes all materials , commodities and 
articles but does not include newspapers, actionable 
claims, stocks, shares, securities or money ; 

( e ) " Government" means Government of Goa , 
Daman and Diu ; 

(f) " manufacture ” with all its grammatical variations 
and cognate expressions means any process of produc 
ing, making, extracting, altering, ornamenting, finishing 
or otherwise processing, treating or adapting any goods; 

( 8 ) " Official Gazette " mcans the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Gazette ; 

( h ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made 
under this Act; 

( 1) " raw materials " mean goods which go into and 
form part of the finished product and include materials 
which are consumed in the process of manufacture , 

(1) " registered ” means registered under this Act; 

( k ) " sale " with its grammatical variations and cognate 
expressions, means any transfer of property in goods 
by one person to another for cash or deferred payment 
or other valuable consideration , and includes a transfer 
of goods on hire -purchase or other system of payment 
by instalments , but does not include a mortgage or 
hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods; 

Explanation . — A sale or purchase of goods shall be 
deemed to take place inside Goa , Daman and Diu if 
the goods are within that territory , 

( i) in the case of specific or ascertained goods , 

at the time the contract of sale is made; and 
( l ) in the case of unascertained or future goods, 

at the time of their appropriation to the con 
tract of sale by the seller or by the buyer , 
whether assent of the other party is prlor or 

subscquent to such appropriation ; 
(1) " Sale -price " means the amount payable to a 
dealer as consideration for the sale of any goods, ex 
cluding any sum allowed as cash discount according to 
the practice normally prevailing in the trade, but inclu 
sive of any sum charged for anything done by the dealer 
in respect of the goods at the time of or before the 
delivery thereof, other than the cost of freight or delivery 
or the cost of installation in cases where such cost is 
separately charged ; 

( m ) " turnover ” used in relation to any period means 
the aggregate of the sale -prices or parts of sale prices 
receivable , or if a dealer so elects , actually received , by 
the dealer during such period after deducting the 
amounts , if any , refunded by the dealer in respect of 
any goods returned by the purchaser within such period : 

Provided that an election as aforesaid once made shall 
not be altered except with the permission of the Com 
missioner and on such terms and conditions as he may 
think fit to impose ; 

(n ) " year" means the financial year commencing on 
the first of April . 
Taring Authorities. 

3. ( 1 ) For carrying out the purposes of this Act, tho 
Government may appoint a person to be Commissioner 
of Sales Tax , and such other persons to assist him as 
it thinks fit. 

(2 ) Persons appointed under sub -section ( 1 ) shall 
exercise such powers as may be conferred , and perform 
such duties as may be required, by or under this Act. 

(3 ) All persons appointed under sub -section ( 1 ) shall 
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code . 
Incidence of tar . 

4 . ( 1 ) With effect from such date as the Government 
may , by notification in the Official Gazette , appoint , 
being not earlier than thirty days after the date of the 
said notification , every dealer whose gross turnover 


during the year immediately preceding the commence 
ment of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum shall 
be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales effected 
after the datc so notified : 

Provided that a dealer who dcals exclusively in one or 
more classes of goods specified in the second schedule 
shall not be liable to pay any tax under this Act . 

( 2 ) Every dealer to whom sub -section ( 1 ) does not 
apply , shall , if his gross turnover calculated from the 
commencement of any year exceeds the taxable quan 
tum at any time within such year , be liable to pay tax 
under this Act, on the expiry of two months from the 
date on which such gross turnover first exceeds the tax 
able quantum , on all sales effected after such expiry . 

( 3 ) Every dcaler who has become liable to pay tax 
under this Act shall continue to be so liable until the 
expiry of three consecutive years , during each of which 
his gross turnover has failed to exceed the taxable 
quantum and such further period after the date of such 
expiry as may be prescribed , and on the expiry of this 
latter period his liability to pay tax shall cease . 

( 4 ) Every dealer whose liability to pay tax under 
this Act has ceased under the provisions of sub -section 
( 3 ) , shall, if his gross turnover calculated from the com 
mencement of any year again exceeds the taxable quan 
tum at any time within such year, be liable to pay such 
tax on the expiry of two months from the date on which 
such gross turnover again first exceeds the taxable quan 
tum on all sales effected after such expiry . 

( 5 ) In this Act, the expression "taxable quantum 
mcans 
( a ) in relation to any dealer who imports for sale 

any goods into Goa, Daman and Diu or manu 
factures or produces any goods for sale , 
regardless of the value of the goods imported, 
manufactured or produced, ten thousand 

rupees ; 
( 6 ) in relation to any other dealer , thirty thousand 

rupees : 
Provided that if the Government is of opinion that 
having regard to the difficulty in maintaining accounts 
or other sufficient cause the taxable quantum in respect 
of any class of dealers falling under clause ( a ) should 
be increased . the Government may fix in respect of 
such class of dealers such taxable quantum , not excecd 
ing thirty thousand rupees, as may be specified in the 
notification . 
Llability after cancellation of registration , 

5 . Any dealer whose certificate of registration granted 
under sections 11 , 12 , 13 or 14 has been cancelled shall , 
if his gross turnover calculated from the commencement 
of any year or from any date within the year exceeds 
the taxable quantum at any time, within such year , bo 
liable to pay such tax on the expiry of two months from 
the date on which such gross turnover again first ex 
ceeds the taxable quantum on all sales , effected after 
such expiry , of goods imported from outside Goa , 
Daman and Diu or manuaftctured therein . 
Liability of dealers registered under Central Sales Tax 


Act. 


6 . Every dealer shall , notwithstanding that he is not 
liable to pay tax under any of the sub -sections ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) 
of section 4 or section 5 , be liable to pay tax under this 
Act so long as he is registered under the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956 , on all sales effected by him or on his 
behalf within Goa, Daman and Diu on or after the date 
of his liability or the date of his registration , whichever 
is earlier , under the Central Sales Tax Act aforesaid ; 

Provided that no tax shall be payable in respect of 
sales in any period prior to the commencement of this 


Act. 


Rate of Tax . 

7 . ( 1 ) The tax payable by a dealer under this Act 
shall be levied on the taxable turnover at the following 
rates, namely : 
( a ) in respect of goods specified in the First 

Schedule , at the rate of ten paise in the 

rupee ; 
(b ) in respect of goods specified in the Third 

Schedule, at the rate of two paise in the rupee; 
(c ) in respect of any other goods, at the rate of 

five paise in the rupee ; 


120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Part III - SEC , 3 


- 


Provided that the Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazetto , add to , or omit from , or other 
wise amend the First and the Third Schedulcs , without 
affecting the entries in the Second Schedule . 

Provided further that if in respect of any goods or 
class of goods the Government is of opinion that it is 
expedient in the interest of the general public so to do , 
it may, by notification in the Official Gazette , direct that 
the tax in respect of the taxable tumover of such goods 
or class of goods shall , subject to such conditions as may 
be specified , be levied at such modified rate not exceed 
ing the rate : applicable under this sub -section as may 
be specified in the notification . 

( 2 ) The Government or any other person authorised 
in this behalf may permit dealers , in such circumstances 
and under such conditions as may be prescribed , to 
compound the tax assessable on their taxable turnover 
under the provisions of this Act by paying in lieu there 
of a lump sum in such manner as may be prescribed . 

( 3 ) In this Act, the expression " taxable turnover " 
means that part of a dealer s gross turnover during any 
period which remains afterdeducting therefrom his 
turnover during that period on 

( I) the sale of goods declared tax - frco under section 
10 ; 
( II) sales to a registered dealer-- 
( a ) of goods of the class or classes specified in the 

cortificate of registration of such dealer, as 
being intended for - - 
(i ) re -sale by him within Goa, Daman and 


Diu ; 


( ii) re -sale by him in the course of interstate 

trade or commerce ; 
(ül) rc -sale in the course of export out of 

India or re -sale after such export; or 
( iv ) used by him as raw materials in the 

manufacture of goods for sale , and i 
(b ) of containers or other materials for the pack 

ing of goods of the class or classes so speci 

fied for sale : 
Provided that no deduction shall be allowed unless 
the dealer who sells the goods furnishes in the pres 
cribed manner 
(a ) in the case of sales falling within sub - items 

(i) and (iv ) of item ( a ) and within item (b ) , 
a declaration duly filled up and signed by the 
registered dealer to whom the goods are sold 
and containing the prescribed particulars in the 
prescribed form ; and 
in the case of sales falling within sub- items 
( li ) and (iii ) of item ( a ) , a certificate in the 
prescribed form from the dealer to whom the 
goods are sold , that the goods are purchased 
for re -sale in the course of inter -state trade 
or commerce or for re - sale in the course of 
export out of India or for rc-sale after such 
export, and that such goods will be so re-sold 
by himself or by any other registered dealer 
to whom he re -sells the goods within ninc 
months from the date of such purchase or 

such futher period as may be prescribed : 
Provided further that where any goods specified in the 
certificate of registration are purchased by a registered 
dealer for any of the purposes specified in item ( a ), 
but are utilized by him for any other purpose , or are 
not re -sold in the manner and within the poriod pres 
cribed the price of the goods 80 purchased 
shall be allowed to be deducted from the gross turnover 
of the selling dealer but shall be included in the taxable 
turnover of the purchasing dealer ; 

( III) sales of goods which are specified by the Gov 
ernment under section 8 as goods taxable at the first 
point and which are made by any dealer other than the 
manufacturer or importer , provided that in the case of 
such sales proof of payment of tax at the first point 
is adduced to the satisfaction of the Commissioner. 

( IV ) sales to any undertaking supplying electrical 
energy to the public under a licence or sanction granted 
or deemed to have been granted under the Indian Elec 
triclty Act , 1910 , of goods for use by it in the genera 
tion or distribution of such energy ; 


( V ) sales of goods which are shown to the satis 
faction of the Commissioner to have been despatched 
hy , or on behalf of the dealer to an address outside 
Goa , Daman and Diu ; 

(VI) such other sales as may be prescribed . 
Point at which sales may be taxed . 

8 . The tax payable under this Act shall be levied 
on the taxable turnover at the point of sale to the 
consumer or to a person other than a registered dealer : 

Provided that the Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette , specify the first or any other 
pojnt of sale in the series of sales of successive dealers , 
as the point at which any goods or class of goods may 
be taxed, 
Burden of proof. 

9 . The burden of proving that in respect of any salo 
effected by a dealer he is not liable to pay tax under 
this Act shall lie on him . 
Tax - free goods. 

10 . ( 1 ) No tax shall be payable under this Act on 
the sale of goods specified in the Second Schedule , 
subject to the conditions and exception , if any , sot out 
therein . 

( 2 ) The Central Government may, by notification 
in the Gazette of India , add to , omit from or other 
wise amend the entries in the Second Schedule . 
Registration of dealers. 

11 . ( 1) No dealer shall , whilo being liable to pay 
tax under section 4 of this Act, carry on business as 
a dealer unless he has filed an application in accordance 
with sub - section ( 2 ) or has been registered and possch 
ses a registration certificate under this Act. 

( 2 ) Every dealer required by sub -section ( 1 ) to be 
rogistered shall make application in this behalf in the 
prescribed manner and within the prescribed time to 
the prescribed authority . 

( 3 ) If the said authority is satisfied that the applica 
tion for registration is in order , he shall , in accordance 
with such rules as may be prescribed , register the appli 
cant and grant him a certificate of registration in the 
prescribed form which shall specify all his places of 
business and the class or classes of goods, for the pur 
pose of clause (II ) of sub -section (3 ) of section 7. 

(4 ) The prescribed authority may from time to time 
amend any certificate of registration in accordance with 
information furnished under section 23 or otherwise 
received . 

( 5 ) The Commissioner may , for good and sufficient 
reasons, demand from a registered dealer or from a 
porson who has applied for registration under this 
Act : 

( i) reasonable security for the proper payment 

of tax payable by him under this Act ; 
(ii) reasonable security for the proper custody and 

use of the forms referred to in the first pro 
viso to clause (II) of sub -section ( 3 ) of sec 
tion 7 which may be given to him by the 

prescribed authority . 
(6 ) When any dealer has been convicted or has paid 
composition money under section 32, in respect of any 
contravention of sub -section ( 1 ) of this section , the 
prescribed authority shall register such dealer and gran : 
him a certificate of registration , and such registration 
shall take effect as if it had been made under sub 
section ( 3 ) of this section on the dealer s application , 
( 7 ) When 
(a ) any business in respect of which a certificato 

has been granted to a dealer on an applica 
tion made , has been discontinued or trans 

ferred , or 
( b ) a dealer has ceased to be liable to pay taj 

under section 4 of this Act, 
the Commissioner shall cancel the registration , 

(8 ) The Commissioner may at any time for reasons 
to be recorded in writing and after giving the deale 
an opportunity of being heard , cancel any certificate o 
registration , 


PART IJI - SEC . 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


121 


( 2 ) Such dealers as may be required so to do by tho 
Commissioner by notice served in the prescribed mander 
and every registered dealer shall furnish such returns 
by such date and to such authority as may be prescribed . 

( 3 ) Before any registered dealer furnishes the returns 
required by sub - section ( 2 ) , he shall pay into a Govera 
ment treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in such 
other maoner as may be prescribed the full amount of 
tax due from him under this Act according to such re 
turns, and shall furnish along with the returns a receipt 
from such Treasury or Bank showing the payment of 
such amount. 

(4 ) If any dealer discovers any omission or other 
error in any return furnished by him , he may at any 
time before the date prescribed for the furnishing of the 
next return by him furnish a revised return ; and if the 
revised return shows a greater amount of tax to be due 
than was shown in the original return , it shall be accom 
panied by a receipt showing payment in the manner pro 
vided in sub -section ( 3 ) of the extra amount. 

(5 ) With a view to encourage prompt payment of tax , 
the Government may prescribe rates of remission or 
rebates in respect thereof in accordance with such princi 
ples as may be prescribed . 


Collection of tax only hy registered dealers , 

16 . No person who is not a registered dealer shall collect 
in respect of any sale by him of goods in Goa , Daman 
and Diu any amount by way of tax under this Act and 
no registered dealer shall make any such collection except 
in accordance with this Act and the rules made there 
under , 


Voluntary registration . 

12 , ( 1 ) Any dealer other than a dealer who deals 
exclusively in one or moro classes of goods specified 
in the Second Schedule , whose gross turnover during a 
year exceeds ten thousand rupees may , notwithstanding 
that he may not be liable to pay tax under section 4 , 
apply in the prescribed manner to the prescribed autho 
rity for registration under this Act. 

(2 ) The provisions of sub -section ( 3 ) , (4 ), ( 5 ) , (7 ) 
and ( 8 ) of section 11 shall apply in respect of applica 
tions for registration under this section . 

( 3 ) Every dealer who has been registered upon 
application made under this section shall , for so long 
as his registration remains in forco , be liable to pay 
tax under this Act, 

( 4 ) The registration of a dealer upon application 
mado under this section shall be in force for a period 
of not less than three complete years and shall remain 
in force thereafter unless cancelled under the provisions 
of this Act , 

(5 ) Subject to thọ provisions of sub - section ( 4 ) , a 
dealer registered upon application made under this sec 
tion may apply in the prescribed manner not less than 
six months before the end of a year to the authority 
which granted him a certificate of registration for the 
cancellation of such registration to take effect at the 
end of the year in which the application for such can 
cellation is made; and the said authority shall , unless 
the dealer is liable to pay tax under section 4 , cancel 
the registration accordingly . 
Provisional registration . 

13 . ( 1 ) Any person who lotends to establish a busi 
ness in Goa , Daman and Diu for the purpose of manu 
facturing or producing goods of a value exceeding ten 
thousand rupees per year, may, notwithstanding that he 
is not required to register himself under section 11, 
apply in the prescribed manner to the prescribed autho 
rity for provisional registration under this Act, 

( 2 ) If the said authority , after making such inquiries 
as it may consider necessary , is satisfied as to the hona 
fide intention of the person making the application , it 
may grant a provisional certificate of registration on 
such person furnishing such sccurity as it may consi 
der necessary and shall specify in such certificate the 
class or classes of goods for the purposes of clause ( IT ) 
of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 7 . 

( 3 ) Every person who has been granted a provisional 
certificate of registration under this section shall, for so 
long as such certificate is in force be liable to pay tax 
under this Act. 

( 4 ) A provisional certificate of registration granted 
under this section shall be in force for such period as 
may be specified therein and the provisions of sub 
sections ( 4 ) , ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) of section 11 shall. so far as 
may be , apply to any such certificate of registration . 
Special registration . 

14 . ( 1 ) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay 
tax under section 5 . carry on business as a douler unless 
he has applied for a special certificate of registration , 

( 2 ) Every dealer required by sub -section ( 1 ) to 
be registered shall make an application in this behalf 
in the prescribed manner to the prescribed authority . 

( 3 ) If the said authority is satisfied that the application 
for special certificate is in order . it shall, in accordance 
with such rules as may be prescribed , grant a special 
certificate to the applicant in the prescribed form : 

Provided that the special certificate shall not specify 
the class or classes of goods for the purposes of clause 
( II ) of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 7 . 

( 4 ) The prescribed authority may from time to time 
amend any special certificate in accordance with the in 
formation furnished under section 23 or otherwise re 
ceived by him . 

( 5 ) The provisions of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 4 
and sub - sections ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of section 11 shall apply 
registration under this section . 
Payment of tax and returns. 

15 . ( 1 ) Tax payable under this Act shall be paid in 
the manner hercinafter provided at such intervals as may 
be prescribed . 


Assessment of tax . 

17 . ( 1 ) If no returns are furnished by a registered 
dealer in respect of any period by the prescribed dato , or 
if the Commissioner is not satisfied that the returns fur 
nished arc correct and complete , the Commissioner shall , 
within three years after the expiry of such period , proceed 
in such manner as may be prescribed to assess to the best 
of his judgment the amount of the tax due from the 
dealer and in making such assessment shall give the dealer 
a reasonablc opportunity of being heard ; and in the case 
of failure by a registered dealer to submit in respect of 
any period , a return accompanied by a receipt from a 
Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India as 
required under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 15 , by the 
prescribed date , the Commissioner may , if he is satisfied 
that the default was made without reasonable cause , direct 
that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addition 
to the amount of the tax so assessed a sum not exceeding 
one and a half times that amount. 


( 2 ) If upon information which has come into his pos 
session , the Commissioner is satisfied that any dealer , 
has been liable to pay tax under this Act in respect 
of any period but has failed to get himself registered , the 
Commissioner shall proceed in such manner as may be 
prescribed to assess to the best of his judgment the amount 
of tax due from the dealer in respect of such period and 
all subsequent periods and in making such assessment 
shall give the dealer a reasonablc opportunity of being 
heard ; and the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that 
the default was made without reasonable cause , direct 
that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addition 
to the amount of tax so assessed a sum not exceeding 
one and a half times that amount. 

( 3 ) No assessment under sub -section ( 1 ) shall be 
made after the expiry of four years and no assessment 
under sub - section ( 2 ) shall he made after the expiry of 
six years from the end of the year in respect of which 
or part of which the assessment is made : 

Provided that where such assessment is made in con 
sequent of or to give effect to any order of an appellate 
or revisional authority or of a court , the period of four 
ycars or six years , as the case may be, shall be reckoned 
from the date of such order . 
( 4 ) The amount of tax 
( a ) due where the returns are furnished without 

receipt showing full payment thereof, or 
( b ) assessed under sub -section ( 1 ) , less the gum , 

if any, already paid by the dealer in respect 

of the said period , or 
(c ) assessed under sub -section (2 ) , 


122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[Part III - SEC . 3 


. 


— 


shall , together with any ponalty that may be directed to 
be paid under any of the provisions of this section , or 
section 31 , be paid by the dealer into a Government 
Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in such other 
manner as may be prescribed by such date as may be 
specified in a notice issued by tho Commissioner for this 
purpose and the date to be so specified shall be not less 
than sixty days from the date of service of such notice 

Provided that the Commissioner may, in respect of any 
particular dealer and for reasons to be recorded in 
writing, extend the date of such payment or allow such 
dealer to pay the tax due and the penalty , if any by 
instalments , 

( 5 ) When a dealer is in default in making payment 
of the tax, the Commissioner or any person appointed to 
assist him under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 , may in 
his discretion direct that, in addition to the amount of 
tho arrears , a sum not exceeding six per cent thercon 
per annum by way of interest plus a penalty equal to the 
Amount of such interest shall be recovered from the 
dealer , 

( 6 ) Any amount of tax or penalty which remains 
unpaid after the date specified in the said notice , shall 
be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue under the 
law for tho time being in force in that behalf, 

( 7 ) Any assessment made under this section shall be 
without prejudice to any prosecution instituted for an 
offence under this Act. 


Assessment and reassessment of tax. 

18 . If in consequence of definite information which has 
come into his possession the Commissioner is satisfied 
that the turnover of the business of a dealer has escaped 
assessment or has been under - assessed in any year, the 
Commissioner may, at any time within the period of five 
years following the close of the year for which the turn 
over is proposed to be assessed or re -assessed , as the case 
may be, send a notice to the dealer and after hearing him 
and making such inquiry as he considers necessary , may 
proceed to assess or rc -assess , as the case may be, the tax 
payable on the turnover which has escaped assessment or 
has been under - assesscd , and all the provisions of this Act 
and the rules made thereunder shall , so far as may be, 
apply accordingly for the purpose of the assessment or re 
assessment of the tax , as the case may be. 


(b ) to furnish any information , relating to the stock 

of goods of purchases , sales or deliveries of 
goods by, the dealer or relating to any other 
matter, as may be deemed necessary for the 

purpose of this Act. 
( 2 ) All accounts , rcgisters and documents relating to 
the stocks of goods of, or purchase, sales and deliveries 
of goods by, and all goods kept in any place of business 
of , any dealer , shall, at all reasonable times, be open to 
inspection by the Commissioner, 

( 3 ) If the Commissioner has reason to suspect that any 
dealer is attempting to evade payment of any tax under 
this Act, he may , for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
seize such accounts, registers or documents of the dealer 
as may be necessary , and shall grant a receipt for the 
same and shall retain the same only for so long as may 
be necessary in connection with any procceding under 
this Act or for a prosecution . 

( 4 ) For the purposes of sub -section ( 2 ) or sub -section 
( 3 ) the Commissioner may enter and search any place 
of business of any dealer , or any other place where tho 
Commissioner has reason to believe that the dealer keeps 
or is for the time being keeping any accounts , registers 
or documents of his business : 

Provided that no residential premises shall be entered 
into and searched by the Commissioner , except on the 
authority of a search warrant issucd by a magistrate 
having jurisdiction over the area . 
Delegation of Commissioner s powers . 

22 . Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may 
he prescribed , the Commissioner may by order in writing 
delegate any of his powers under this Act except those 
under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 30 to any person ap 
pointed under section 3 to assist him . 
Information regarding changes of business. 

23. If any dealer to whom the provisions of sub -section 
( 2 ) of section 15 apply 
( a ) sells or otherwise disposes of his business or 

any part of his business or any place of business, 
or effects or comes to know of any other 

change in the ownership of the business , 
( b ) discontinues his business or changes his place of 

business or opens a new place of business, or 
( c ) changes the name or nature of his business or 

effects any chango in the class or classes of 
goods in which he carries on his business and 
which is or are specified in his certificate of 

registration . 
he shall within the prescribed time inform the prescribed 
authority accordingly , and if any such dealer dies, his 
legal representative , shall in like manner , inform the said 
authority . 
Special provision regarding liability in certain cases. 

24 . ( 1) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this 
Act, dies then , 
( a ) if the business carried on by tho dealer is ccnti 

nued after his death by bis legal representative 
or any other person , such legal representative 
or other person , shall be liable to pay the tax 

due from such dealer under this Act, and 
(b ) if the business carriçd on by the dealer iş dis 

continued after his death his legal repicscntative 
shall be liable to pay out of the cstate of the 
deceased , to the extent to which the estate is 
capable of meeting the charge , the tax ( 10 
cluding any penalty ) duc from such dealer 

under this Act , 
wbether such tax ( including any penalty ) has been asses 
sed before his death but has remained unpaid , or is asses 
scd after his death . 

( 2 ) Where a dealer , liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is a Hindu undivided family, and the joint family property 
is partitioned amongst the various members or groups 
of members, then each member or group of members 
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the tax ( in 
cluding any penalty ) due from the dealer under this Act, 
upto the time of the partition , whether such tax ( includ 
ing any penalty ) has been assessed before partition but 
has remained unpaid , or is assessed after partition . 


Refund. 

19 . ( 1 ) The Commissioner shall, in the prescribed 
manner, refund to a dealer applying in this behalf any 
amount of tax or penalty paid by such dealer in excess 
of the amount due from him under this Act , either by 
cash payment or, at the option of the dealer , by deduc 
tion of such excess from the amount of tax due in 
respect of any other period : 

Provided that no refund shall be made unless the 
claim for refund is made within twelve months from 
the date of the assessment of tax or the date of the 
imposition of penalty or within six months from the 
date of any final order passed on appeal, revision or 
review under section 28 , whichever period expires later . 

( 2 ) Nothing in sub -section ( 1 ) shall be deemed to 
cmpower the Commissioner to amend, vary or rescind 
any assessmcat or to amend rary Or rescind any order 
passed on appeal, revision or revicw under section 27 
or reference under section 28 or to confer on a dealer 
any relief in addition to what he is entitled under the 
provisions of this Act. 


Accounts 

20 . Every registered dealer or other dealer on whom 
a notice has been served to furnish returns under sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 15 , shall keep a truc account of 
the value of goods hought, and sold by him , and if the 
Commissioner considers that such account is not sufficient 
ly clear and intelligible to enable him to make a proper 
check of the returns referred to in that sub -section , he 
may require such accounts ( including records of sales ) as 
may be prescribed . 


Power to call for information etc ., to search and to seize 

documents etc . 

21. ( 1 ) The Commissioner may, subject to such condi 
tions as may be prescribed , require any dealer 
( a ) to produce before him any accounts , registers 

or documents, and 


123 


PART II - SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


( 3 ) Where a dealer , liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is a firm , and the firm is dissolved , then every person 
who was a partner shall be jointly and severally liable 
to pay to the extent to which he is liable under section 
25, the tax ( including any penalty ) due from the film 
under this Act, upto the time of dissolution , whether 
such tax ( including any penalty ) has been assessed be 
fore such dissolution but has remained unpaid , or is 
assessed after dissolution . 

( 4 ) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
transfers or otherwise disposes of his business in whole or 
in part or effects any change in the ownership thereof, 
in consequence of which he is succeeded in the business 
or part thereof by any other person , the dealer and the 
person succeeding shall jointly and severally be liable to 
pay the tax ( including any penalty ) due from the dealer 
under this Act, upto the time of such transfer, disposal or 
change , whether such tax ( including any penalty ) has 
been assessed before such transfer , disposal or change 
but has remained unpaid , or is assessed thereafter . 

(5 ) Where the dealer, liable to pay tax under this 
Act - - 
( a ) is the guardian of award on whose behalf the 

business is carried on by the guardian , or 
( b ) is a trustee who carries on the business under a 

trust for a beneficiary . 
then , if the guardianship or trust is terminated , the ward 
or, as the casc may be, the beneficiary shall be liable to 
pay the tax ( including any penalty ) due from the dealer 
up to the time of icrmination of the guardianship or 
trust , whether such tax ( including any penalty ) has 
been assessed before the termination of the guardianship 
or trust, but has remained unpaid , or is assessed there 
after , 

(6 ) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is succeeded in the business by any person in the manner 
described in clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) or in sub 
section ( 4 ), then such person shall be liable to pay tax 
on the sales of goods made by him on and after the date 
of such succession , and shall (unless lie already holds a 
certificate of registration ) within 30 days thereof apply 
for registration : 

Provided that, where such person re -sells any goods 
purchased by the dealer while carrying on business before 
such succession , he shall be entitled to such deductions 
in respect thereof as are permissible under sub - section 
( 3 ) of section 7 , had the re -sale been effected by the 
dealer himself. 


( 2 ) Subject to such rules of procedure as may be 
prescribed , the appellate authority , in disposing of any 
appeal under sub -section ( 1 ) , may 
( u ) confirm , reduce, enhance or annul the assess 

ment, or; 
( b ) set aside the assessment and direct the assess 

ing authority to make a fresh assessment after 

such further inquiry as may be directed . 
( 3 ) Subject to such rules as may be precribed and 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner 
upon application or of his own motion may revise any 
assessment made or order passed under this Act or the 
rules made thereunder by a person appointed under 
section 3 to assist him , and subject as aforesaid , the 
Government may , in like manner revise any order passed 
by the Commissioner . 

Provided that before rejecting any application for 
the revision of any such order the Commissioner or the 
Government, as the case may be, shall consider it and 
shall record reasons for such rejection : 

Provided further that no application for revision shall 
lie to thc Commissioner in respect of any assessment 
if an appeal lies under sub -section ( 1 ) to the prescribed 
authorily in respect of such assessment. 

(4 ) Subject to such rulcs as may be prescribed , any 
assessment made or order passed under this Act or the 
rules made thereunder by any person appointed under 
section 3 may be reviewed by the person passing it upon 
application or of his own motion . 

(5 ) Before any order is passed under this section 
which is likely to affect any person adversely , such per 
son shall be given reasonable opportunity of being heard . 

Explanation : - - In this section " assessment” includes 
imposition of penalty . 
Statement of case to Court. 

28 . ( 1) Within sixty days from the passing by the 
Government of any order under sub -section ( 3 ) of sec 
tion 27 affection any liability of any dealer to pay tax 
under this Act, such dealer may , by application in 
writing, and accompanied by a fee of one hundred 
rupccs , require the Government to refer to the Court 
any question of law arising out of such order. 

( 2 ) If , for reasons to be recorded in writing , the Go 
vernment refuses to make such reference , the applicant 
may, within thirty days of such refusal, either 
( a ) withdraw his application (and if he does so , 

the fee paid shall be refupded ) , or 
(b ) apply to the Court against such refusal. 
( 3 ) If upon the receipt of an application under 
clause ( h ) of sub - section ( 2 ) , the Court is not satis 
fied of the correctness of the Government s decision , 
it may require the Government to state the case and 
refer it, and on the reccipt of such requisition , the Goy 
ernment shall state and refer the case accordingly . 

( 4 ) If the Court is not satisfied that the statements 
in a case referred under this section are sufficient to 
enable it to determine the question raised thereby , it may 
refer the case back to the Government to make such 
additions thereto or alterations therein as the Court may 
direct in that behalf. 

(5 ) The Court upon hearing any such case shall decide 
the question of law raised therein , and shall deliver its 
judgment thercon containing the grounds on which such 
decision is founded , and shall send a copy of its judg 
ment to the Government which shall pass such orders as 
are necessary to dispose of the case conformably to 
such judgment. 

(6 ) Where a reference is made to the Court under 
this section , the costs shall be in the discretion of the 
Court . 

( 7 ) The payment of the amount, if any of tax due in 
accordance with the order of the Government in respect 
of which an application has been made under sub -section 
( 1 ) shall not be stayed pending the disposal of such 
application or any reference made in consequence there 
of, but if such amount is reduced as the result of such 
reference , the excess tax paid shall be refunded in ac 
cordance with the provisions of section 19 . 

( 8 ) in this section , " Court" means the Court of the 
Judicial Commissioner, Goa , Daman and Diu . 


Liability of firnis, 

25 . Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary , 
where any firms is liable to pay tax ( including any 
penalty ) under this Act, the firm and each of the partners 
of the firm shall be jointly and severally liable for such 
payment : 

Provided that, where any such partner rctires from 
the firm , he shall be liable to pay the tax and the 
penalty (if any ) remaining unpaid at the time of his 
retirement, and any tax ( including any penalty ) due 
upto the date of retirement though unassessed at that 
date . 


Bar to certain proceedings. 

26 . Save as is provided in section 28 , no assessment 
made and no order passed under this Act or the rules 
made thereunder by the Commissioner or any person 
appointed under sub -section ( 1) of section 3 to assist 
him shall be called in question in any Civil Court, and 
save as is provided in section 27 , no appeal or appli 
cation for revision or review shall lie against any such 
assessment or order. 
Appeal, revision and review . 

27 . ( 1 ) Any dealer may in the prescribed manner 
appeal to the prescribed authority against any assess 
ment within sixty days or such further period as may 
be allowed by the Commissioner for cause shown to his 
satisfaction , from the receipt of a notice issued under 
sub - section (4 ) of section 17 in respect thereof : 

Provided that no appeal shall be entertained by the 
said authority unless he is satisfied that such amount 
of the tax as the appellant may admit to be due from 
him has been paid . 


124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


(PART III - SEC . 3 


Powers of Commissioner etc. in certain matters . 

29 . ( 1 ) The Commissioner or any person appointed 
to assist him under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 shall , 
for the purposes of this Act, have the same powers as 
are vested in a Civil Court under the law relating to 
Civil Procedure for tho time being in force in Goa , 
Daman and Diu , when trying a suit , in respect of the 
following matters , namely : 
( a ) enforcing the attendance of any person and 

examining him on oath or affirmation ; 
(b ) compelling the production of documents; and 
( c ) issuing commissions for the examination of 

witnesses ; and any proceeding under this Act 
before the Commissioner or any person ap 
pointed to assist him under sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 shall be deemed to be a judicial pro 
cccding within the meaning of section 193 and 
228 , and for the purposes of section 196 , of 
the Indian Penal Code. 


( 2 ) Subject to any rules made in this behalf, any 
authority referred to in sub -section ( 1 ) may impound 
and retain in its custody for such period as it thinks fit , 
any books of account or other documents produced 
before it , in any proceedings under this Act : 

Provided that a person appointed to assist the Com 
missioner under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 shall not 

(a ) impound any books of account or other docui 

ments without recording his reasons for so 

doing ; or 
(b ) retain in his custody any such books or docu 

ments for a period exceeding thirty days with 
out obtaining the approval of the Commissioner 

therefor . 
Offences and penalties . 
30 . (1 ) Whoever -- 
( a ) carries on business as a dealer in contravention 

of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 11 ; or 
fails, without sufficient cause, to submit any 
return as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
15 or submits a false return ; or 
being a registered dealer, falscly represents 
when purchasing any class of goods, that goods 
of such class are covered by his certificate of 

registration ; or 
( d ) not being a registered dealer, falsely represents 

when purchasing goods that he is a registered 

dealer ; or 
(e) contravenes the provisions of section 16 ; or 
(1) fails , when required so to do under section 

20 , to kcep prescribed accounts or records of 

sales ; or 
( 8 ) refuses to comply with any requirement made 

of him under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 21 ; 


( 6 ) fails 


Penalty for concealment of sales etc. 

31. ( 1 ) If the Commissioner or any person appointed 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 to assist him in the 
course of any proceedings under this Act is satisfied 
that a dealer has concealed the particulars of his sales 
or hus furnished inaccurate particulars of his sales and 
has thereby returned figures below the real amount he may 
after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being 
hcard , direct that the dealer shall, in addition to the 
tax payable by him under this Act, pay, by way of 
penalty , a sum not exceeding one and a half times the 
amount of tax which would have been avoided if the 
figures returned by the dealer were accepted as correct. 

( 2 ) If any person purchasing goods is guilty of an 
offence under clause ( c ) or clauso ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 30 , the authority which granted to him 
or as the case may be, is competent to grant to him 
a certificate of registration under this Act may, after 
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard , by 
order in writing, impose upon him by way of penalty 
a sum not excecding one and a half times the tax 
which would have been levied under this Act in respect 
of the sale to him of the goods, if the offence had not 
been committed , 
Compounding of offences, 

32 . ( 1 ) Subject to such conditions as may be pres 
cribed , the Commissioner may accept from any person 
alleged to have committed an offence under sub -section 
( 1) of section 30 or under any rules made under this 
Act, cither before or after the commencement of any 
proceedings against such person in respect of such offence, 
by way of composition for such offence , 
a sum not excecding five thousand rupees or where the 
offence alleged to have been committed is under clause 
( a ) or clauso (6 ) of that sub -section , not exceeding 
double the amount of the tax which would have been 
payable by such person had he complied with the pro 
visions of the Act, whichever is greater . 

( 2 ) On payment in full of such sum as may be 
determined by the Commissioner under sub -section 
(1 ) - 
( a ) no proceedings shall be commenced against such 

person as aforesaid ; and 
( h ) if any proceedings have been already commenc 

ed against such person as aforesaid , such pro 

ceedings shall not be further proceeded with . 
Setting up of posts and barriers. 

33 . ( 1 ) The Government may , by notification in the 
Official Gazette , set up check -posts or barriers at any 
place in Goa , Daman and Diu with a view to preventing 
evasion of sales tax and other ducs payable under this 
Act, 

( 2 ) Every person transporting such goods as may be 
notified shal , at any check -post or barrier referred to 
in sub - section ( 1 ) , file before such officer as may be 
authorised by the Government in this behalf a declara 
tion in such forin and in such manner as may be pres 
cribed 

( 3 ) The officer authorised by the Government under 
sub - section ( 2 ) or any other oficer who may be autho 
rised in this hchalf may for the purpose of satisfying 
himself that the provisions of sub -section ( 2 ) are not 
being contravcped , and subject to such restrictions as 
may be prescribed , intercept and search any vehiclo 
which may be suspected of contravening the said pro 
visions, 
Indemnity . 

34 . No suit , prosecution or other legal proceeding 
shall lie against any employee of the Government for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to 
be done under this Act or the rules made thereunder , 
Returns etc ., to be confidential. 

35 . ( 1 ) All particulars contained in any statement 
made, return furnished or accounts or documents pro 
duced in accordance with this Act or in any record of 
evidence given in the course of any proceedings under 
this Act other than proceedings before a Criminal Court 
shall , save as provided in sub -section ( 3 ) , be treated as 
confidential, and notwithstanding anything to the cont 
rary contained in any other law relating to evidence , no 
Court shall, save as aforesaid , be entitled to require any 
employee of the Government to produce beforo it any 
such statement, return , account, document or record 
or any part thereof, or to give evidence before it in res 
pect thereof. 


Or 


( 1 ) 


(h ) knowingly produces incorrect accounts , regis 

ters or documents , or knowingly furnishes in 
correct information ; or 
obstructs any officer making an inspection or 

a search or a seizure under section 21 ; or 
(1) neglects to furnish any information required 

by section 23 ; 
shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which may 
extend to six months or with fine or with both , and 
when the offence is a continuing one, with a daily fine 
not exceeding fifty rupces during the period of the con 
tinuance of the offence : 

Provided that no prosecution for an offence against 
this Act shall be instituted in respect of the same facts 
in respect of which a penalty has been imposed under 
section 17 or section 31 , 

( 2 ) No Court shall take cognizance of any oflence 
under this Act or under the rules made thereunder ex 
cept with the previous sanction of the Commissiopor, 
and no Court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the 
first class shall try any such offence , 

( 3 ) All offences punishable under this Act shall be 
cognizable and bailable, 


PART II— S . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


125 


( 2 ) If save as provided in sub -section ( 3 ) , any em 
ployce of the Goveroment discloses any of the particu 
lars referred to in sub -section ( 1) , be shall be punishablo 
with imprisonment which may extend to six months, 
and shall also be liable to fine. 

(3 ) Nothing in this section shall apply to the dis 
closure : 
(a ) of any of thc particulars referred to in sub 

section ( 1 ) for the purposes of a prosecution 
under the Indian Penal Code in respect of 
any such statement , return , accounts , docu 
mcats or evidence , or for the purposes of a 

prosecution under this Act; or 
( b ) of such facts , to an officer of the Central 

Government or the Government of any State 
or Union Territory , as may be necessary for 
verification of such facts or for the purpose 
of enabling that Government to levy or realise 

any tax imposed by it. 
Power to make rules . 

36 . ( 1 ) The Government may , subject to the condi 
tion of previous publication , make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act . 


( p ) the conditions under which offences may be 

compounded under section 32 ; 
( a ) the manner in which , and the time within 

which , applications shall be made, information 

furnished and notices served , under this Act; 
(r ) any other matter required to be prescribed . 
( 3 ) any such rules may provide that a breach thereof 
shall be punishable with find not exceeding five hundred 
rupees , and when the offence is a continuing one, with 
a daily fine not exceeding twenty -five rupees during the 
continuance of the offence , 
Savings. 

37 . Nothing in this Act or the rules made thereunder 
shall be deemed to impose or authorise ihc imposition 
of a tax on any sale or purchase of any goods when 
such sale or purchase takes place — 

(i) in the course of inter-State trade or commerce; 
( ii ) outside Goa, Daman and Diu ; or 
( ii ) in the courso of import of the goods into , 

or export of goods out of, the territory of India . 
Explanation : Sections 3 , 4 and 5 of the Central Sales 
Tax Act , 1956 , shall apply for determining whether or 
not a particular sale or purchase takes place in the 
manner indicated in clause ( 1 ) , clausę ( u ) or clause 
( w ) . 
Power to remove difficulties . 

38 . If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the pro 
visions of this Act, the Govt, may , by order, as occasion 
requires, do anything (not inconsistent with this Act) 
which appears to it to be necessary for removing the 
difficulty . 


( 


+ 


( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the gene 
rality of the foregoing power , such rules may preg 
cribe : 
( a ) the further period after the date of expiry of 

three consecutive years referred to in sub 
section (3 ) of section 4 ; 
the particulars to be contained in a declaration 
under clause ( II ) of sub -section (3 ) of section 
7 , the form of such declaration , the authority 
from which such form shall be obtainable and 
the manner in which such delaration is to be 

furnished ; 
( c ) the other sales turnover in respect of which 

may be deducted from a dealer s gross turn 
over in computing his taxable turnover as 

defined in section 7; 
( d ) the authority to which applications for registra 

tion under sections 11, 12 , 13 or 14 shall bo 

made ; 
( e ) the procedure for , and other matters incidental 

to , the registration of dealers and the granting 
of certificates of registration , and the form of 

such certificates under sections 1, 12 , 13 or 14 ; 
(1) the intervals at which, and the manner in 

which , the tax under this Act shall be payable 

under section 15 , 
( 8 ) the returns to be furnisbed under sub -section 

( 2 ) of section 15 , and dates by which and 
the authority to which , such returns shall be 

furnished ; 
( h ) the date by which returns for any period are 

to be furnished and the procedure to be fol 

lowed for assessment under section 17 ; 
( 1) the manner in which refunds under section 19 

shall be made; 
(i) the accounts and forms thereof required by 

section 20 ; 
( k ) the conditions under which the production of 

accounts or documents or the furnishing of 
information may be required under sub -section 

( 1 ) of section 21 ; 
( l) the restrictions and conditions subject to which 

the Commissioner may delegate his powers 

under section 22 ; 
(m ) the authority to which information shall be 

furnished under section 23 ; 
(n ) the manner in which , and the authority to 

which appeals against assessment may be 
preferrod under section 27 ; 
the procedure for , and other matters ( including 
fees ) incidental to , the disposal of appeals and 
applications for revision and review under 
Kection 27; 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( See clause (a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ] 
1 . Motor vehicles , including chassis of motor 

vehicles, motor tyres and tubes and spare parts 

of motor vehicles. 
2 . Motor cycles and cycle combinations , motor 

scooters , motorettes and tyres , tubes and sparo 

parts of motor cycles, motor scooters , motorertes. 
3 . Refrigerators and air -conditioning plants and 

components parts thereof. 
4 . Wireless reception instruments and apparatus , 

radios and radio gramophones , transistors, elec 
trical valves, accumulators , amplifiers and loud 

speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof. 
5 . Cinematographic equipment including cameras, 

projectors and sound recording and reproducing 
equipment, recording tape, lenses, films and parts 
and accessories required for use therewith ex 
cluding films certified by the Central Board of 
film Censors to be predominantly educational in 

nature. 
6 . Photographic and other cameras and enlargers, 

lenses, films and plates, paper and cloth and 
other parts and accessories required for use 

therewith . 
7 . AU clocks, time-pieces and watches and parts 

thereof. 
8 . Iron and Steel safes and almirahs. 
9 . All arms including rifles, revolvers, pistols, and 

ammunition for the same. 
10 . Cigarette cases and lighters . 
11. Tape recorders , dictaphone and other similar ap 

paratus for recording sound and spare parts 

thereof. 
12 . Sound transmitting equipment including tele 

phones and loud speakers and spare parts there 

of. 
13. Typewriters , tabulating machines, calculating 

machines and duplicating machines and parts 

thereof. 
14 . Binoculars , telescopes and opera glasses, 
15 , Gramophones and component parts thereof. 
16 . Gramophone records. 


126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


PART III - SEC . 3 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 

( See section 10 ) 


Tar - free goods 


1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice 

(except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
2 . Flour including atta , maida , suji and bran 

except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
3 . Bread . 
4 . Meat ( except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
5 . Fish (except when sold in sealed containers ) . 
6 . Fresh eggs. 
7 . Live stock including poultry . 
8 . Vegetables, green or dried ( excluding dehydrated 

vegetables ) and vegetable seeds and plants 
other than medical preparations) ( except when 

sold in sealed containers ) . 
9 . Fresh fruits . 
10 . Sugar, Gur, molasses and sugarcano . 
11. Salt . 
12 . Fresh milk , whole or separated and milk pro 

ducts. 
13. Karadi ( safflower ) oil and till ( sesamam ) oil . 
14, Edible oils pressed on Ghanis. 
15 . Ghee and vegetable ghec . 
16. Dahi, butter and Khoa. 
17. All varieties of cotton , real silk , woollen , rayon 

or artificial silk fabrics. 
18. Cotton yarn including cotton thread . 
19 . White printing paper , creamlaid paper, band 

made paper and newsprint . 
20 . School exercise and drawing books and other 

articles of stationery used by the students , 
21. All books and periodicals . 
22. Kerosene . 
23 . Fuel wood and charcoal, 
24 . Agricultural implements . 
25. Matches . 
26 . Cattle feeds including fodder and poultry feed . 
27 . Hides and skins, whether in a raw or dressed 

state . 
28 . Electrical energy . 
29 . Fertilizers and manures including oil cakes . 
30 , Water but not aerated water or mineral water, or 

water sold in bottles or sealed containers . 
31 . Raw wool. 
32 . Tobacco and all its products . 

When manufactured 
33 , (i) Country made shoes (i) without the use of 
(Juties ) 

power , and 
( ii ) Hand -made utensils ( ii ) at a place other 

than a factory as 

defined in the 
( iii ) Cane and bamboo Factories Act, 
handicrafts. 

1948 and sold eit 

her by the maker 
( iv ) Earthenware made himself or by any 
by Kumbhars. 

member of his 
family or by a 
cooperative socie 
ty consisting 
wholly of the 
makers of such 

articles . 
34 . Achar and Murraba except when sold in sealed 

containers. 


37 . Betel leaves, betel nuts, kat and edible lime, 
38 . Durries of the size not exceeding 30 sq . fect in 

arca . 
39 , Bardana including hessian , cloth , iron strips and 

wooden and tin packing , the sale of which is 
incidental to dealings in any of the other goods 

mentioned in this Schedule , 
40. Cotton padding. 
41. Articles and utensils made of Kansa ( bellmetal). 
42. Bullock carts , and spare parts thereof. 
43. Chillies, chilly powder; tamarind, turmeric and 

all other condiments , whole or powdered , except 

when sold in sealed containers . 
44 . Coconut in shell ; coconut oil and separated ker 

nel of coconut other than copra , 
15 . Cooked food and non -alcoholic drinks served at 

one time at a price of not more than three ru 
pees per person , for consumption at or out 
side any eating house , restaurant, hotel, refresh 
ment room or boarding cstablishment which is 
not a shop or establishment conducted primarily 
for the sale of sweetmeats, confectionery , cakes , 

biscuits or pastries . 
46 . Foodstuffs and food provisions of all kinds ( in 

cluding dried fruits and dried vegetables ; raw 
semi- cooked , semi-processed or ready -to -serve 
foods, pickles, sauces , jams, marmalades, jellies ; 
preserved fruits and honey ) when sold in sealed 
containers of weight not exceeding five Kg. in 

each container . 
47. Farsan . 
48 . Films certified by the Central Board of Film 

Censors to be predominantly educational in 

nature . 
49 . Flowers (excluding artificial flowers). 
50 . Flower, fruit and vegetablc secds ; seeds of 

lucerne and other fodder grass ; seeds of sann 
hemp ; bulbs ; croms; rhizomes; suckers and 
tubcrs; budgrafts , cuttings; layers and seedlings; 

plants , 
51. Plantain leaves, patrawalis and dronas. 
52. Handloom fabrics of all varieties (excluding pile 

carpets, braids, borders, laces and trimmings ) . 
53. " Khadi" and ready -made garments and other 

articles prepared from Khadi. 
Explanation — For the purpose of this entry 
" Khadi" means any cloth woven on handloom 
in India from cotton , silk or woollen yarn 
hand- spun in India or from the mixture of any 

two or all such yarns. 
54. Products of Village Industries as defined in the 

Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act, 

1956 . 
5 . (i) Handloom and parts thereof. 
( ii ) The following handloom accessories , 

namely : 
( a ) Rach 
(b ) Fani 
( c ) Cotton healds 
( d ) Shuttles 
( e ) Bobbins 
( f ) Pins 

( g ) Pickers. 
( iii ) The following handloom auxiliary machines 

namely - 
( a ) Warping frames worked by hand 
( b ) Sectional drum typo warping machine 

worked by hand and V -shaped creel 

lised therewith . 
( iv ) The following attachment to handlooms 

namely : Wooden dobbies . 
56 . Kumkum ( including liquid Kumkum ) . 
57. Mangalsutra with black glass beads sold at a 

price not cxceeding ten rupees each , 
58 , Bangles of price not exceeding rupee one per 

pair . 
59 . Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons, 


35 . Charkha, takli and charkha accessories. 
36 . Slate , slate pencils, takhties , black ink used for 

takhties writing chalks, crayons , foot rules of the 
type used in schools , Kalams (Pens used for 
takhties ) . 


PART III — Sec . 3) 


. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


127 


60 . Stamp- papers and stamps sold by vendors duly 

authorised under the provisions of the Indian 
Stamps Act, 1899 , and the Court Fees Act, 

1870 . 
61, Safety razor blades, 
62. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats 

and vehicles . 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
[See clause ( h ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 ] 

1. Coal including coke in all its forms. 
2 . Cotton 

as defined in section 
3 , Iron and steel 

14 of the Central Sales 
4 . Jute 

Tax Act, 1956 . 
5 . Oilseeds 
6 . Artificial silk yarn , 

S . BALAKRISHNA 
Secretary to the Government 

of Goa, Daman and Diu . 


Finance Department 
THE GOA , DAMAN AND DIU SALES TAX RULES, 

1964 

Panjim , the 8th October 1964 
· No . F .111 / 2 -36 / 64 . - - In exercise of the powers con 
ferred by section 36 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Act, 1964, the Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing rules : 

1 . Short title . These rules may be called " The Goa , 
Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964 " . . . . . . . 

2 . Definitions. -- In these rules unless the context other 
wisc requires : 

(a ) " the Act" means the Goa , Daman and Diu ( Sales 
Tax ) Act, 1964; 

(b ) " agent" means a person authorised by a dealer 
in writing to appear on his behalf in any proceedings 
before any authority functioning under the Act and 
who is : 

(i) a relative of the dealer, or 
(ii) a person regularly employed by the dealer , or 
( iii ) a Legal Practitioner or Chartered Accountant, 


(1) " Assistant Commissioner" means the person ap 
pointed by that designation by the Government under 
section 3 to assist the Commissioner; 

( 8 ) " Assistant Sales Tax Officer" means the person 
appointed by that designation by the Government under 
section 3 to assist the Commissioner ; 

( h ) " Forms" means a form specified in the second 
schedule ; 

( i) " Inspection " means a Sales Tax Inspector appoint 
ed under section 3 to assist the Commissioner for car 
rying out the purposes of the Act ; 

(j) "month ” means a calendar month ; 

(k ) " place of business" means any place where any 
dealer sells or manufactures for sale any goods or keeps 
his accounts of sale of goods ; 

(1) " Quarter" means each of the following periods 
of three month of each year : 

1st April to 30th June , 
1st July to 30th September. 
1st October to 31st December . 

1st January to 31st March . 
( in ) " return period " means the period for which 
returns are to be furnished by a dealer under these 
rules ; 

(n ) " Sales Tax Officer" means the person appointed 
by that designation by the Government under section 3 
of the Act to assist the Commissioner ; 

(0 ) " Schedule” means the Schedule appended 10 
these rules; 

(p ) " section " means a section of the Act; 

(q ) " Territory" means the Union Territory of Goa, 
Daman and Diu ; 

(r ) " warehouse" means any enclosure , building of 
vessel in which a dealer keeps stock of goods for sale 
or resale . 

3 . Ex- Territory dealer .- A dealer who resides outside 
the Territory and has no place of business in the Terri 
tory but delivers goods in the Territory , for consumption 
therein , shall be considered an importer for the purpose 
of ascertaining the taxable quantum referred to in clauso 
( a ) of sub -section 5 of section 4 of the Act. 

4 . Application for Registration . - ( 1 ) An application 
for registration of a dealer under section 11, 12 , 13 , or 
14 shall be made, within 30 days from the commence 
ment of the liability under section 4 of the Act, to tho 
appropriate Assessing Authority . It shall be in Form 
ST. I, if made by a dealer having only one place of 
business in the Territory ; in Form S . T . II, if made by a 
dealer having moro than one place of business in the 
Territory ; and in Form S . T . III, if made by an Ex 
Territory dealer . A dealer liable to pay tax under sec 
tion 6 shall also apply for registration under section 11 . 

( 2 ) A fee of five rupees shall be levied on every ap 
plication for registration and every such application shall 
be accompanied by a receipt for the payment of the said 
fee in the appropriate Government Treasury . 

( 3 ) An application for registration shall be made. 
signed and verified , in the case of a business carried 
on by : 

( a ) an individual, hy the proprietor or by a person 
having due authority to act on behalf of such proprietor; 

(b ) a firm , by a partner thereof; 

(c ) a Hindu undivided family , by the Karta or an 
adult member thereof ; 

( d ) a body corporate ( including a company, coopera 
tive society , or a corporation or local authority ) , by a 
director, manager , secretary or the principal officer 
thereof, or by a person duly authorised to act on its 
behalf; 

( e ) an association of individuals to which clause (b ) , 
(c ) or (d ) does not apply , by the principal officer of, 
or person managing the business; 

(1 ) the Government, by a person duly authorised to 
act on its behalf. 

5 . Grant of Certificate of Registration . ( 1 ) When the 
appropriate Assessing Authority , after making such en . 
quiry as he may think necessary , is satisfied that the 


OI 


( iv ) a person holding a Power of Attorney from 

the dealer in this regard . 
( c ) “ Appropriate Assessing Authority " means : 
(i) in relation to any particular dealer, the Sales 

Tax Officer or the Assistant Sales Tax Officer 
within whose jurisdiction the dealer s place of 

business is situated ; 
( ii) in relation to a dealer who has more than ono 

place of business in the Territory , the Sales 
Tax Officer or the Assistant Sales Tax Officer 
within whose jurisdiction the head office of such 

business is situated in the Territory ; 
(ul) in relation to an Ex - Territory dealer as defined 

in rule 3, the Sales Tax Officer specifically 
nominated by the Commissioner for the pur 

poso . 
Provided that in relation to any dealer or class of 
dealers whose gross turnover exceeds such amount as 
the Commissioner may fix by order , the Appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall be the Sales Tax Oncer who 
is specified therein . 

( d ) “ Appropriate Government Treasury " means any 
Taluka Treasury or sub - Treasury in the Territory , the 
Reserve Bank of India , or a branch of the State Bank 
of India or its subsidiary situated in the area in which 
the dealer concerned has his place of business or the 
hcad office , if the business is carried on at more than 
ono place in the Territory ; 

( e ) " Appropriate Tax Recovery Officer " means the 
Tax Recovery Officer of the Revenue Office of Taluka 
in which the dealer s place of business in the Territory 
is situated or if he has more than one place of business 
in the Territory , the Taluka in which the head office of 
such business is situated or the Collector of the District 
of the residence of the Ex- Territory dealer; 


128 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[PART III - SEC. 3 


4mm 


applicant has correctly given all the requisite informa 
tion , that he has paid the registration fee and the appli 
cation is otherwise in order , he shall register the dealer 
and shall issue a certificate of registration : 

( i) in Form S . T . IV if the dealer has only one 

place of business in the Torritory ; 
( ii ) in Form S . T , V if he has more than one place 

of business in the Territory ; 
(iii ) in Form S . T . VI if the application is for 

special registration under section 14 ; and 
( iv ) in Form S . T . VII if the dealer is an Ex 

Territory dealer. 
( 2 ) Where a certificate of registration is issued to a 
dealer : 

( a ) it shall take effect or be valid from the date of 
the commencement of the liability , if it is made within 
the period specified in sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 and in 
such case thc dealer shall be liable to pay tax on sales 
made by him from the date of commencement of the 
liability and he will be entitled to collect such tax from 
that date ; and 

(6 ) it shall take effect or be valid from the date on 
which the application has been filed in the office, if 
such application is made after the expiry of the aforesaid 
period . 

(3 ) The appropriate Assessing Authority shall furnish 
the registered dealer, free of cost , an attested copy of 
the registration certificate for every additional place 
of business (not being merely a warehouse ) . 

( 4 ) Every registered dealer shall display conspicuous 
ly at cach place of business ( not being merely a ware 
house ) the certificate of registration or a copy thereof. 

(5 ) Any registered dealer may obtain from the appro 
priate Assessing Authority , on payment of a fee of two 
rupees and production of a receipt therefor from a 
Government Treasury , a duplicate copy of any registra 
tion certificate which has been issued to him and which 
may have been lost, destroyed or defaced , 

6 . Information to be furnished regarding change of 
busnless, etc . - ( 1 ) The information required under sec 
tion 23, shall be furnished by the registered dealer to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority within 30 days of the 
occurrence of such event. 

( 2 ) If the information referred to in section 23 , relates 
to a branch of any business located outside the jurisdic 
tion of any Assessing Authority , a copy of the informa 
tion and of any orders passed thercon , shall be forward 
ed to the appropriate Assessing Authority within whose 
Jurisdiction the branch is situated . 

( 3 ) When any registered dealer dics. his legal repre 
sentative shall give information of the death to the appro 
priate Assessing Authority within thirty days from the 
death of the dealer . 

7, Amendment and replacement of the certificate of 
registration. - ( 1 ) When any registered dealer makes 
any report under section 23, he shall enclose his registra 
tion certificate and the copies thereof, to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority , who may , after making such en 
quiry or obtaining such cvidence as he may think neces 
sary , amend or reissue the registration certificate . 

Provided that where a registered dealer - - 
(a ) effects change in the name of his business , or 

(6 ) is a firm , and there is a chage in tho partnership 
or in the constitution of the firm without dissolution 
thereof, or 

(c ) is a trustee of a trust , and there is change in the 
trustees thereof, or 

(d ) is a guardian of a ward and there is a change in 
the guardian , then the certificate of registration shall be 
amended and it shall not be necessary for the dealer , or 
the firm or the new trustees or new guardian , as the case 
may be, to apply for a fresh certificate of registration . 

( 2 ) If the dealer has failed to furnish information , 
as required under section 23 , the Assessing Authority on 
the basis of information which may come to his notice 
otherwise , and if he is satisfied , that there has becn a 
change in the ownership , nature or name of the business 
Or, for any other reason , the certificate or other record 
of the dealer maintained in his office requires amend 
mont, he may. after giving the dealer, an opportunity of 
being heard , hy order, amend the certificate or other 
record accordingly , For this purpose the dealer shall 


submit the certificate lying in his possession and copics 
thereof to the Assessing Authority within the time 
specified in the order. 

( 3 ) Where any class or classes of goods have, in the 
opinion of the Assessing Authority , been wrongly speci 
fied in the certificate for the purpose of items ( a ) and 
( b ) of clause II of sub -section 3 of section 7 or where 
there are reason to believe that any dealer has been mis 
using the certificate , the Assessing Authority may , after 
giving the dealer an opportunity of being heard , by 
order, delete or modify any class or classes of goods speci 
fied in the certificate and thereupon the dealer shall sub 
mit within the time specified in the order the registration 
certificate and copies thereof for deletion or modification , 
as the case may be. 

(4 ) Any amendment made under any of the foregoing 
sub -rules shall be cffective . 

( a ) in case of change in the name of business , place 
of business, opening of a new place of business or change 
in the ownership of business , from the date of the 
contingency which necessitates the amendment, whether 
or not information in this behalf was furnished within 
the period prescribed under preceding rule ; 

( b ) in the case of addition of a class or classes of 
goods in the certificate of registration , from the date the 
application for amendment is received in the office ; and 

( c ) in the case of deletion or modification of class 
or classes of goods , from the date of the order of dele 
tion or modification , as the case may be . 

(5 ) If a dealer to whom a certificate in Form 
S . T . IV has been issuod reports that one or more addi 
tional places of business has or have been opened his 
ccrtificate shall be cancelled and the Assessing Authority 
shall issue in its place a fresh certificate in Form S . T . V 
and a copy thereof shall be furnished to the dealer in 
respect of each additional place , on payment of a fco 
of Rs. 2 , 

(6 ) If the dealer to whom a certificate in Form S . T. V 
has been issued , reports that any one or more of the 
places of business has or have been closed , his certificato 
shall be cancelled if only one place of business remains 
thereafter , or amended , if there remains more than onc 
such place of business in the former case, a fresh certi 
ficate in Form S . T . IV shall be issued on payment of a 
fee of Rs . 21 

( 7 ) All the amendments of the certificates of regis 
tration shall be entered in the register maintained in the 
office of the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

8 . Cancellation of registration certificate . - ( 1 ) When 
any dealer who is registered under section 12 , desires to 
apply for cancellation under sub -section ( 5 ) of that soc 
tion , he shall send his application to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority , not less than six months before the 
end of the year together with — 

(i) a statement of his grogg turnover during the 

immediately preceding two years , and 
( ü ) a statement showing the value of goods im 

ported or manufactured by him during tho 

immediately preceding two vears , and 
(lii ) ( a ) a declaration whether or not he manufac 

tures or produces any goods for sale, or 
(b ) imports for sale any goods from outside 

the State . 
( 2 ) If the appropriate Asgessing Authority is satisfied 
that such dealer is not liable to pay tax under section 4 , 
or that the tax due has been paid , he shall cancel the 
registration with effect from the last date of the year, 
and at least three months before the end of the year , he 
shall forward to the Commissioner the name and address 
of the dealer together with a description of the goods 
covered by his certificate of registration . 

9 . Cancellation of certificate consequent on cancella 
rion of certificate under Central Sole Tar Act 1956 . -- 
When the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied that 
the registration certificate granted under the Central 
Sales Tax Act, 1956 . to a dealer has been cancelled , 
he shall cancel the certificate of registration granted 
under the Act to that dealer, provided that he had not 
otherwise become liable to pay tax under section 4 , 
The cancellation shall take effect from the date on which 
the registration under the Central Sales Tax Act. 1956 
is cancelled and the liahility of the dealer 10 : nay tax 
under section 6 shall coase with effect from tho said 
dato . 


PART III - SEC . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887 ) 


129 


12 . List of registered dealers and its publication . - ( 1 ) 
The appropriate Assessing Authority shall maintain a 
record of registration granted to the dealers , and by the 
last day of April and the last day of October in each 
year, forward to the Commissioner a list in duplicate 
and in alphabetical order, of all dealers of the arca re 
gistered in the preceding half year in the following 
Form : 


Goods covered by 
dcaler s certificaio 

of registration 


SerialNo. Nameandaddress 

ofthedealer. Namesofthepro 

prietor,manager, partnersordirector 

Locationofplace orplacesofbusiness Datefromwhich theregistration 

isvalid egistration 
certificateNo. 

Nameofward inwhichregistered Forresale 


Formanulac 


2013 


Forusein 
thepacking ofgoods 


Remarks 


2 


3 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


10 . Cancellation in other cases. ( 1 ) ( a ) If the gross 
turnover of any dealer registered under section 11, has 
for three consecutive years failed to exceed the taxable 
quantum , such dealer shall continue to be liable to pay 
tax during such further period not excecding two years 
as the appropriate Assessing Authority may specify . 

( 6 ) The dealer whose further period has been specified 
by the appropriate Assessing Authority under clause ( a ) , 
shall surrender the registration certificate to the appropri 
ate Assessing Authority at least six months before the 
expiry of such further period . 

(c ) If the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied 
that a dealer whose further period has been specified 
under clause ( a ) , is not liable to pay tax under section 
4 , he shall forward the registration certificate to the 
Commissioner who shall order the cancellation of the 
registration with effect from the date of expiry of the 
further period specifiled under clause ( a ) , and the 
liability of the dealer to pay tax under sub -section ( 3 ) 
of section 4 , shall cease with cffect from the said date . 
(d ) Where 
(1) a registered dealer has discontinued or trans 

ferred his business, or 
(ii) has ceased to be liable to pay tax under SCC 

tion 4 , 
the appropriate Assessing Authority shall forward the 
registration certificate to the Commissioner who shall 
order the cancellation of his certificate of registration 
under sub -section 7 of section 11, and the said certi 
ficate shall be deemed to be inoperative , with effect from 
the date of discontinuance or transfer of the business in 
a case covered by clause ( i ) above , and with effect from 
the date on which the dealer s liability to pay tax has 
ceased in a case covered by clausc ( ii ) above , notwith 
standing the fact that the order of cancellation is passed 
or that the particulars of the dealer regarding cancellation 
are published in the Official Gazette , after the aforesaid 
date . 

( e ) When the appropriate Assessing Authority is 
satisfied that for any reason other than that referred to 
in clauses ( c ) and ( d ) , the certificate of registration of 
any dealer requires cancellation , he shall forward to the 
Commissioner the registration certificate of the dealer 
and the cancellation shall come into cffect from such date 
as may be specified in the order and the liability of 
the dealer to pay tax shall cease with effect from the 
said datc . 

Provided that the Commissioner, notwithstanding the 
provisions of rule 8 and this sub -rule may , at any time 
for reasons to be recorded in writing and after giving 
the dealer an onportunity of being heard , cancel any 
certificate of registration under sub -section 8 of section 
11. 

Provided further that every such order of cancellation 
shall, as soon as possible after it is made , be published 
in the Official Gizcits . 

( 2 ) (a ) Every dealer whose registration is cancelled 
otherwise than on the basis of his application shall aur 
Tender the certificate of registration to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority within seven days of the date of 
communication to him of the order of cancellation . 

(b ) If a dealer fails to surrender his registration certi 
ficate as provided in clause ( a ) , the annropriate Assessing 
Authority may , by an order in writing and after giving 
the dealer an opportunity of heing heard , impose upon 
the dealer a penalty not exceeding Rs. 25 for every day 
of default. 

( 3 ) The cancellation of certificates of registration shall 
he entered in the reprister maintained in the office of 
the appropriate Assessing Authority . . 
· 11: List of cancelled certificates and its publication . 
( 1 ) The appronriate Assessing Authority shall, hy the 
last day of July and the last day of January in each 
venr forward to the Commissioner a list in dunlicate and 
in alphabetical order of all dealers whose registration 
is cancelled in the preceding half vear and every such list 
shall contain the names and addresses of such dealers, 
their registration numbers and the date of cancellation . 

. ( 2 ) The particulars regarding such cancellation shall 
be published by the Commissioner in the Official Gazette 
thereafter in the following, Form : 


( 2 ) As soon as may be after the commencement of 
the Act, the Commissioner shall publish in the Official 
Gazette the list of registered dealers with the particulars 
furnished by the appropriate Assessing Authorities . 

( 3 ) After the publication of the list under sub - rule 
( 2 ) , the Commissioner shall publish every year in the 
like manner a consolidated list of the dealers registered 
up -to -date , after eliminating those whosc registration 
certificates were cancelled during the preceding year. 

13. Return periods of taxable turnover ( 1 ) Unless 
a different return period is fixed by or under these rules, 
every registered dealer shall furnish to the appropriato 
Assessing Authority quaterly returns in Form S . T . VIII , 
within one month from the expiry of ench quarter. 

( 2 ) Subject to the provision of sub -rule ( 3 ) , the 
turn -period fixed for any dealer under sub -rule ( 1 ) 
shall remain in force for not less than 2 years and shall 
continue to remain in force until a new return period 
is fixed in accordance with these rules 

( 3 ) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub -rulc ( 1 ) , 
the appropriate Assessing Authority may, from time to 
time, for reasons to be recorded in writing, fix monthly 
return for a dealer, instead of a quarterly return . 

( 4 ) A registered dealer, for whom monthly return 
period has been fixed under the preceding sub - rule shall 
furnish a return in Form S . T . VIII , for each month , by 
such date within the following months as may be fixed 
by the appropriate Assessing Authority . 

( 5 ) All returns shall be signed by the registered dealer 
or his agent, and shall be sent to the appropriate Asses 
sing Authority , together with the receipt for payment of 
the tax due in the appropriate Government Treasury . 

(6 ) An unregistered dealer on whom a notice has 
been served under sub -section ( 2 ) of section 15 , shall 
furnish to the appropriate Assessing Authority , within 
30 days from the date of the notice, returns in Form 
S . T . VIII. 

14 . Compounding of tar ( 1 ) a dealer may be per 
mitted under sub -section ( 2 ) of section 7 , to compound 
the tax assessable on his taxable turnover 

( a ) if his business is on a small scale and its nature 
is such that proper maintenance of accounts is not prac 
ticable ; or 

(b ) on any other sufficient ground . 

( 2 ) A dealer intending to compound for the tax as 
gegsable on his taxable turnover ag provided under acc 
tion 7 ( 2 ) , shall apply to the appropriate Assessing 
Authority in Form S . T . IX , at least 2 months before 
the commencement of the year for which the composi 
tion is intended . 

( 3 ) On receipt of the application , the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall forward the same to the Com 
missioner with its opinion after making such enquirles 
as it may consider necessary in this behalf, 

( 4 ) The Commissioner, unlegg authorised to act under 
section 7 ( 2 ) , shall forward his opinion thereon to the 
Government 

( 5 ) The Government or the Commissioner , if so autho 
rised in this behalf, may on a consideration of the case , 
permit the dealer to pay such lump sum in lieu of the 
tax assessable on his taxable turnover under the provi 
sions of the Act, as may be considered appropriate and 
direct appropriate Assessing Authority to issue a certi 
Acate in Form S. T . X . 


Names of the 
Name and proprietor , Registration Date of can 
z address of manager . certificate No . cellation of 
in the dealer partners or 

registration 
dlroctor 


aRe110ks 


130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


PART III- SEC . 3 


(6 ) The certificate , so lasuod under sub - rulo ( 5 ) , 
shall be valid for the year to which it relates , on the 
expiry of which , it shall cease to have effect unless 
it is renewed , on application , by the dealer made at least 
2 months before its expiry . 

( 7 ) The dealer shall be liable to pay such additional 
sum by way of composition , as may be fixed by the 
Government or the Commissioner , as the case may be, 
if he starts a new place of business or makes any change 
in tho nature of business . 

( 8 ) The dealer shall surrender his certificate within 
10 days from the date of expiry of its validity . 

15 . Deductions from gross turnover.--- ( 1) A dealer 
who wishes to deduct from his gross turnover any 
amount in respect of sales , on the ground that he is en 
titled to make such deductions under the provisions of 
sub -items (i ) or ( iv ) of item ( a ) or item (b ) of 
clause II of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 7 , shall furnish 
along with the return referred to in section 15 , a com 
plete list of such sales, and shall produce in support of 
them , the declarations furnished in writing by the pur 
chasing registered dealer or by a person duly authorised 
by him in writing in this behalf , in Form S . T . XI, to 
gether with the copies of the relevant cash memos or 
bills according as the gale is a cash sale or a sale on 
credit. 

( 2 ) A registered dealer who wishes to deduct from 
his gross turnover any amount in respect of sales, on 
the ground that he is entitled to make such deductions 
under the provisions of sub - items ( ii) or (iii) of item 
( a ) of clause II of sub -section ( 3 ) of section 7, shall 
furnish along with the return referred to in section 15 , 
a complete list of such sales and shall produce in support 
of them , the declarations furnished in writing by the 
purchasing registered dealer or by a person duly autho 
rised by him in writing in this behalf , in Form S . T , XII, 
together with the copies of the relevant cash memos or 
bills, according as the sale , is a cash sale or sale on 
credit 

( 3 ) On application of the dealer , the appropriate 
Assessing Authority may extend for good and sufficient 
reason , the time limit referred to in proviso to sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 7 , for further period not exceed 
ing nine months . 

( 4 ) A dealer who wishes to deduct from his gross 
turnover the amount in respect of goods despatched to 
an address out of the Territory under the provisions of 
sub -items (ii ) and (iii ) of clause II and clause V of 
sub -section ( 3 ) of section 7 , shall prove to the satis 
faction of the appropriate Assessing Authority that the 
goods were actually exported out of the Territory and 
furnish him the following particulars . : - - 

(i) the name of the railway, port, steamer or ferry 

station , or road transport company s office 
from which goods are dispatched and the place 

of delivery : 
(1 ) the number and the date of the receipt isgued 

by the railway , ferry or road transport com 
pany, or documents issued by Customs or Port 

Authorities; 
( iii) the names of the consignor and consignec ; 
( lv ) the description and quantity or weight of the 

goods consigned with their value; and 
( v ) such other particulars as the appropriate As 

sessing Authority may require , 
(5 ) The Forms XI and XII to be produced before 
the appropriate Assessing Authority for the purpose of 
deductions referred to in sub - rulcs ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) shall 
be obtained by the purchasing dealer to the extent ro 
quired by him . On application , from the appropriate 
Assessing Authority on payment of Rs, 2 per 50 forms 
which shall be paid in the form of court -fco stamps , 
The above Forms shall be kept by the purchasing dealer 
in his safe custody . 

Before furnishing the declaration to the selling dealer 
the purchasing dealer or any responsible person autho 
riood by him in this behall , shall fill in all required 
particulars in the Form , and shall also affix his usual 
signature in the space provided in the Form for the 
purpose . Thereafter , the counterfoil of the Form shall 
be retained by the purchasing dealer and the other two 
portions marked original and duplicate shall be made 
Over by him to the selling dealer, 

(6 ) In calculating the taxable turnover. a regis 
tered dealer, besides other deductions referred to in the 
Act and these rules may algo deduct from his gros 


turnover the amount in respect of sales of Canteen 
stores which are shown to the satisfaction of the Asses 
ing Authority to have been made to the members of 
the Armed Forces of the Indian Union stationed in the 
Territory , when such sales are made by regimental or 
unit -run canteens, and provided that the stores are ob 
tained from the Canteen Stores Department ( India ) and 
their sale price does not exceed tho sale price fixed by 
the Quarter-Master . 

16 . Certificate in case the sales are not liable to 
tax . If any registered dealer shows to the satisfaction 
of the appropriate Assessing Authority that no sales 
made by him are liable to tax under the Act and makes 
an application in this behalf , the authority may direct 
that it shall not be necessary for such dealer to furnish 
any return in Form S . T . VIII and may grant the dealer 
a certificate in Form S . T . XIII, 

17 . Validity of the certificate. — ( 1 ) A certificate 
granted to any dealer under rule 16 , shall be valid till 
the end of the year of issue and thereafter may be 
rencwed annually for one year at a time, upon receipt 
of an application from the dealer accompanied by an 
affidavit that the business of the dealer continues to be 
such that no sales effected by him are liable to tax 
under the Act. 

( 2 ) An application for renewal under sub -rulc ( 1 ) , 
shall be made at least 15 days before the date on which 
the certificate is to expire, and applications which are 
received after such date will be liable to be rejected . 

( 3 ) Applications for the issue or renewal of certi 
ficate in Form S. T . XIII shall be made to the appro 
piato Assessing Authority . 

18 . Assessment of tax . — ( 1) The amount of tax duo 
from a registered dealer shall be assessed separately for 
each year during which he is liable to pay tax : 

Provided that the appropriate Assessing Authority , 
when he thinks necessary to make an assessment under 
Section 17 , in respect of a dealer , he may assess the 
tax due even for a part of a year and shall serve a 
notico in Form S . T . XIV upon him : 
( a ) calling upon him to produce his books of ac 

counts and other documents , which he wishes 
to examine, together with any objection which 
the dealer may wish to prefer and any evi 
dence which he may wish to produce in sup 
port thereof; and 

stating the period or the return -period or 
periods in respect of which assessment is pro 
posed and he shall fix a date , giving reasonable 
time, for producing such accounts and docu 
ments and for considering any objection which 

the dealer may prefer . 
( 2 ) A dealer who has been served with a notice as 
aforesaid , may prefer an objection in writing personally 
or through an agent. No fee shall be payable in res 
pect of any such objection . 

( 3 ) After considering any objection made by the 
dealer and any evidence produced in support thereof , 
the appropriate Assessing Authority , shall. after giving 
the dealer an ODDortunity of being hcard , assess the 
amount of tax ( if any ) and impose a penalty (if any ) , 
if he is satisfied that the default in submitting the re 
turns was made without reasonablc cause, to be paid 
by the dealer . 

( 4 ) Where the dealer fails to comply with the terms 
of the notice issued , the appropriate Assessing Authority 
shall assess to the best of his judgement the amount of 
tax due from him , 

( 5 ) Every order of assessment shall be recorded in 
writing and where the Assessing Authority determines 
the turnover of a dealer at a figure different from that 
shown in the return submitted under the provisions of 
these rules, the order shall state briefly the reason there 
for. but a failure to state reasons shall not affect the 
validity of the assessment order. A copy of such order 
shall be supplied to the dealer free of cost . 

( 6 ) If the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied 
that the returns furnished in respoct of any period are 
correct and complete . he may assess the amount of 
tax due from the dealer on the basis of such returns . 

19 . Joint and several responsihilitv for payment of 
tax , — ( 1 ) Where a dealer is a firm or other association 
of nersons, the partners or members thereof shall be 
jointly and severally responsible for pavment of the tax , 
penalty or any amount duc under the Act or these rulos , 


( 6 ) 


PART III - SBC . 37 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


131 


( 2 ) In case of dissolution of a firm , every partner 
thereof , and in case of discontinuance of an association 
or of partition of undivided families , every Member 
thereof, shall be jointly and severally responsible for 
payment of tax due under the Act or these rules in 
respect of the business of the firm or the association, as 
the case may be, conducted before its dissolution or 
discontinuance . 

20 . When the tax should be paid . — The tax due for 
any quarter or month shall be paid before furnishing 
the return and the receipt thereof shall accompany tha 
return to be sent to the appropriate Assessing Authority . 

21 . Where and how the payment should be made. 
( 1 ) Any amount payable by a dealer in respect of tax , 
penalty , composition money, registration fee or any 
other dues, shall be paid in the appropriate Government 
Treasury . No cash payment of any such amount shall 
be accepted at any Sales Tax Officer. 

( 2 ) Every such payment shall be accompanied by a 
challan in Form S . T . XV. Challan forms shall be ob 
tainable free of charge at the Sales Tax Offices , 

( 3 ) Challan shall be filled up in quadruplicate . One 
copy of the challan shall be retained by the Treasury , 
one copy shall be sent by the Treasury Officer to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority and the other two 
copies shall be returned to the dealer , duly signed in 
proof of payment, 

22 . Issue of cash mieino or bill in respect of taxable 
goods sold by the dealer. - - Every registered dealer shall , 
in respect of taxable goods sold by him , issue a cash 
memo or bill and keep the duplicate of such bill or cash 
memo which shall be serially numbered , duly signed 
and dated and shall show separately the price of the 
goods sold and the amount realised by way of tax. 

23. Prohibition against collection of tax in certain 
cases - ( 1 ) No registered dealer shall realise any amount 
by way of sales tax , in respect of sales of any goods 
which are declared under section 10 , as exempt from 
tho levy of sales tax . 

( 2 ) No registered dealer shall realise any amount by 
way of tax in respect of any sale at a rate higher than 
the rate at which he is liable to pay tax under the Act 
in respect of that sale. 

24 , Statement of tax collected . The appropriate As 
sessing Authority shall send to the Commissioner on or 
before the 15th of cach month , a statement of the 
amounts credited in the treasury towards tax due under 
the Act during the preceding month . The Treasury 
Officer may be required by the appropriate Assessing 
Authority , where necessary , to verify the statements 
before they are forwarded to the Commissioner, 

25 . Payment of tax after notice has been served , 
( 1 ) If any sum is payable by the dealer under sub 
rule ( 3 ) of rule 18 , the appropriate Assessing Authority 
shall round off the same, calculated in terms of the 
basic rates, to the nearest multiple of 5 Paise and serve 
a notice in Form S . T , XVI upon him , specifying the 
date , not less than sixty days after the service of the 
notice on or before which payment of any amount due 
shall be made, and he shall also fix a date , on or before 
which the dealer shall fumish the receipted challan in 
proof of such payment. 

(2 ) When the challan is produced , the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall make the necessary entry in 
the personal file of the dealer. 

26 . Recovery of tax. - ( 1 ) If, on the date fixed under 
rule 25 , the defaulting dealer has not paid the sum 
assessed or such instalment thereof as may be due, the 
appropriate Assessing Authority shall send a certificate 
of the amount due to the appropriate Tax Recovery 
Officer for recovery , as an arrear of land revenue, of 
the amount of tax or penalty or both remaining unpaid 
giving the following particulars : 

( a ) Name and full address of the defaulter, 
( b ) Amount recoverable , 
( c ) Period to which the amount relates, 
( d ) Nature of the amount due , and 
( e ) Head of account to which the amount should 

be credited , 
( 2 ) Certificates shall be issued in respect of each 
defaulter, 


( 3 ) After taking the necessary action the appropriato 
Tax Rocovery Officer shall report to the appropriato 
Authority what amount, if any , has been recovered and 
the date on which recovery has been made. In respect 
of Ex - Territory dealers, the appropriate Tax Recovery 
Officer shall remit to the appropriate Assessing Autho 
rity the amount recovered . 

( 4 ) The Assessing Authority shall place the appro 
priate Tax Recovery Officer s report on the personal file 
of the assessee . 

27. Rounding of of any sum payable under the Act 
or the rules -- - Any sum payable under the Act or these 
rules shall be rounded off to the nearest multiplo of 
5 Paise , 

28 . Refund. — ( 1 ) An application from a dealer for 
refund of excess tax paid shall be made to the appro 
priate Assessing Authority and shall briefly specify the 
grounds on which the refund is claimed . 

( 2 ) When the appropriate Agsessing Authority is satis 
fied that a refund is duo , he may , where the amount 
of refund does not exceed rupees two hundred , by 
order, sanction the refund and communicate the order 
to the applicant. 

( 3 ) The appropriate Assessing Authority shall, if the 
amount to be refunded exceeds two hundred rupees, 
submit the application together with his opinion thereon , 
to the Assistant Sales Tax Commissioner , who may , 
thereupon pass an order for refund and communicato 
the order to the appropriate Assessing Authority . 

( 4 ) When an order for refund has been passed under 
sub -rules ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) , the appropriate Assessing Autho 
rity shall , if the dealer desires payment in cash , issue a 
refund voucher in Form S . T . XVII and shall make it 
over to the dealer for encashment at the appropriate 
Government Treasury . 

(5 ) If the dealer desires payment by adjustment 
against any amount subsequently payable by him , the 
appropriate Assessing Authority shall issue a Refund 
Adjustment Order in Form S . T . XVIII authorising the 
dealer to deduct the sum to be refunded from the amount 
payable in respect of the next return - periods following 
the sanctioning of the refund . 

(6 ) In support of a claim for deduction according to 
sub -rule (5 ) , a dealer shall attach the Refund Adjust 
ment Order to the next return in Form $ . T , VIII to be 
furnished by him . 

( 7 ) After allowing such deduction, the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall cause the Refund Adjustment 
Order to be cancelled . 

29 , Production of accounts, registers, etc . — In re 
quiring the production by any dealer of his accounts , 
registers , documents , or stocks of goods , strict regard 
shall be had to the necessity of not disturbing the busi 
ness of the dealer or the work of his staff, any more 
than is necessary for the purpose of ascertaining the 
required information. 

30 . Inspection of Accounts , registers, etc.- -When the 
appropriate Assessing Authority deems it necessary to 
make a visit to any premises , he shall give reasonable 
notice in writing to the dealer of his intention to inspect 
the accounts , registers , documents or stocks of goods of 
such dealer and in fixing the date , time and place for 
the purpose , he shall as far as possible , have due re 
gard to the convenience of the dealer ; ordinarily he 
shall not make such inspection at the place of business 
of the dealer and he shall require the dealer to produce 
his accounts , registers or documents at his office , unless 
the dealer prefers the inspection at his place of busi 
ness . 

Provided that the appropriate Assessing Authority , 
may , where the circumstances so require , proceed to 
inspect or direct by order in writing an Inspector to 
inspect the books of accounts , registers, etc ., at the place 
of business of any dealer. 

31, Search and seizure of accounts , registers , etc . 
( 1) Subject to the provisions of sub -section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 21, the Commissioner may , for reasons to be re 
corded , issue a written order under his signature and 
bearing his seal, authorising any Sales Tax 
Offlcer or Assistant Sales Tax Officer , to enter 
any building , or place to be specified therein where 
he had reason to believe that books of accounts or other 
documents which , in his opinion , will be relevant to or 


132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


PART INI - SEC . 3 


33 . How the memorandum of appeal should be pre 
sented . The memorandum of Appeal shall be presented , 
in duplicate , in Form S . T . XIX , to the appellato autho 
rity by the appellant or his agent, or it may be sent 
to the Appellate Authority by registered post, and shall * 
be signed either by the dealer or by a person duly autho 
rised in writing in this behalí, 

34. What should accompany the memorandum of 
appeal . - The memorandum of appeal shall be accomp 
anıcd by a certified copy of the order appealed against 
and the fce prescribed in rule 46 and shall be endorsed by 
the appellant or lus agent as follows : 

(a ) that the amount of tax assessed and the penalty 
( if any ) imposed or the tax and penalty admitted to 
be due, has been paid ; and 

( b ) that to the best of his knowlcige and belief, the 
facts set out in the memorandum are true. 

35 . When appeal may be summarily rejected . The 
appeal may be summarily rejected if the appelant, after 
being given an opportunity in this behalf, fails to com 


36 . Fixing the date for hearing of appeal.- - If the 
Appellate Authority does not rejected the appeal gum 
marily , he shall fix a date for bearing and notify the 
same to the parties . 

37 , Hearing and recording of evidence . - - If the Ap 
pellate or Revising Authority so desires, it may depute 
an Officer or Inspector to hear and record the evidence 
produced by or on behalf of the dealer or to make such 


useful for any proccalings under the Act , may be found . 
Such orders may authorise the Sales l ax Officer or 
Assistant Salos Tax Officer to do all or any of the fol 
lowing acts, namely : 
(a ) to enter the said building , or place with such 

assistance of Police Othicers as may be re 
quired , to search the same and to place identi 
fication marks on such books of account or 
other documents found therein as, in his opi 
nion , will be relevant to or useful for any 
proceedinys under the Act and to make a 
list of such books or documents with particu 

lars of the identification marks thereon ; 
( b ) to examine such books or documents and to 

make copies of or extracts from such books 

or documents; 
( c ) to tako possession of or scizo any such books 

or documents under sub - section ( 3 ) of section 

21 ; and 
( d ) to make a note or an inventory of any other 

article or thing found in the course of such 
search which , in bis opinion , will be useful 
for or relevant to any proceedings under the 

Act. 
( 2 ) Whenever any building or place authorised to be 
searched is closed , any person residing in or being n 
charge of such building or place shall, on demand by 
the Sales Tax Otticer or Assistant Sales Tax Officer 
and on production of the authority , allow him free in 
gress thereto and atlord all reasonable facilities for a 
search therein . 

( 3 ) If ingress into such building or place cannot be 
so obtained it shall be lawful for the Sales Tax Officer 
or Assistant Sales Tax Officer executing the authority , 
with such assistance of a Police Officer as will be re 
quired , to enter such building or place and search there 
in and in order to effect an entrance into such building 
or place, to break open any outer Or inner door 
or window of any building or place , whether that of the 
person to be scarched or of any other person if after 
notitication of his authority and purpose and demand 
of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain 
admittance : 

Provided that, if any such building or place is an 
apartment in actual occupancy of a woman , who ac 
cording to custom does not appear in public , the Sales 
Tax Orficer or Assistant Sales Tax Officer shall before 
catering such apartment give notice of such woman that 
she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every 
reasonable facuity for withdrawing and may then break 
open the apartment and cater ii. 

(4 ) Before making a search , the Sales Tax Officer 
or Assistant Sales Tax Officer , about to make it, shall 
call upon two or more respectable inhabitants of the 
locality in which the building or place to be searched 
is situated , to attend and witness the soarch und may 
issue an order in writing to them or pny of them to 
do 80 . 

( 5 ) The search shall be made in the presence of the 
witnesses aforesaid and a list of all things seized in the 
course of such search and of the places in which they 
were respectively found shall be prepared by the Sales 
Tax Officer and signed by such witnesses . 

(6 ) The occupant of the building or place searched 
or some person on his behalf shall be permitted to at 
tend during the search and a copy of the list prepared 
under the preceding sub -rule , shall be delivered to such 
occupant or person . A copy shall also be forwarded to 
the Commissioner . 

( 7 ) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 
1898 ( V of 1898 ) regarding the searches shall apply , 
so far as may be, to searches under section 21 or this 
rule . 

( 8 ) If the Sales Tax Officer or Assistant Sales 
Tax Officer seizes any books of accounts, registers or 
documents under section 21 , he shall not retain them 
beyond fifteen days without written sanction of the 
Assistant Commissioner. 

No such books shall be retained for more thun 30 days 
without the sanction of the Commissioner, 

32 . 70 whom appeal should be made. - - An appeal 
against an order of assessment passed by an appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall lie to the Assistant Commis 
sioner ( hereafter referred to as Appellate Authority ) . 


deputed will have the authority to conduct such enquiries 
on the spot as he may consider nocessary for the case . 

38. Application for revision or review .- - ( 1 ) The pro 
visions of fules 33 and 34 shall apply mutatis mutandis 
to every application for revision ; provided that the pro 
visions of clause (a ) of rule 34 shall not apply to an 
application for revision of any order other than an order 
of assessment, made under section 17 and appellato 
order made under section 27 of the Act. 

(2 ) No application for review of an order shall be 
entertained , unless it is presented within 30 days from 
the date of such order and no application for revision of 
an order shall be entertained unless it is presented 
within 60 days from the date of such order : 

Provided that an application for review or revision 
may , after the period so specified bc entertained if the 
applicant satisfies the authority to which such 
application is made that he had sufficient cause for not 
presenting the application within such period , 

Explanation : In computing the period of limitation 
prescribed in this rule for revision of an order, the time 
requisite for obtaining a copy of the order sought to be 
reviscd shall be excluded . 

39 . Notice for hearing the upplication for revision or 
review _ ( 1 ) Notice of the date fixed for hearing an 
appilcation for revision or review shall be given to the 
petitioner and the appropriate Assessing Authority . 

( 2 ) Where the Government or any person appointed 
under section 3 , proposes to revise or review any order 
of his own motion , he shall give the dealer as well as 
the appropriate Assessing Authority an opportunity of 
being heard . 

40 . Order of higher authorities shall be binding on 
subordinate authorities - ( 1 ) The orders passed by the 
Appellate, Revising or Reviewing Authority shall super 
sede the orders of any subordinate autbority and shall 
be binding on it . 

( 2 ) A copy of any order passed upon any appeal or 
application for revision shall be sent to the officer whose 
order forms the subject matter of the appeal or revision 
proceedings , 

41. Review of orders ( 1 ) When the Commissioner 
or any other officer reviews any order under sub - section 
(4 ) of section 27, he shall record his reasons in writing. 

( 2 ) When any appropriate Assessing Authority reviews 
any order he shall send a copy of the order and of the 
statement of reasons to the Assistant Commissioner, 

42 . Reassessment of tux, — If, in consequence of defi 
nite information , which has come into its possession , the 
appropriate Assessing Authority discovers that the turn 
over of the business of a dealer has been under- assessed 


PART III - -Sec . 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


133 


or hay escaped assessment in any year , he may, at any 
time within a period of 5 years following the close of the 
year, for which the turnover is proposed to be re -assessed , 
send a notice in Form S . T . XX to the dealer, after giving 
him an opportunity of being heard and making such 
inquiry as it considers necessary , may proceed to le- 
assess the tax payable on the turnover , which has been 
under- assessed or has escaped assessment. 

43 . Rectification of clerical or urithmetical mistakes. - 
( 1 ) An Assessing, Appellatc or Revising Authority may , 
at any time within one year from the date of any order 
passed by it , rectify any clcrical or arithmetical mistake 
apparent in the record or otherwise brought to his 
notice : 

Provided that no rectification , which has the effect 
of enhancing the assessment, shall be made unless the 
authority concerned has given notico to the dealer con 
cerned of its intention to do so and has allowed him 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard . 

( 2 ) Where such rectification has the effect of reducing 
the ussessment, the authority concerned shall order re 
fund of the amount which may be due to the dealer . 

( 3 ) Where such rectification has the effect of en 
hancing the assessment, the appropriate Assessing Autho 
rity shall serve on the dealer a revised notice in Form 
ST. XXI and thereupon the provisions of the Act and 
these rules shall apply as if such notice had been served 
in the first instance . 

44 . Summons for appearance, - ( 1 ) An appropriate 
Assessing Authority may issue a summons in Form S . T . 
XXII, for the appearance of any person or for the pro 
duction of document or documents by him . 

( 2 ) The powers conferred on an Assessing Authority 
by sub - rule ( 1 ) may also be exercised by an Appellate 
or Revising Authority , 

45 . How the notice , summons or order may be 
Issued .- Service of any notice, summons or order under 
the Act or these rules may be effected in any of the 
following ways, namely : 

( a ) by sending it to the person concerned by regis 
tered post, or 

( b ) by giving or tendering it to the person concerned 
or his manager or agent, if any, or 

( c ) if the person concerned or his manager or agent, 
if any, cannot be found, by leaving it at the last known 
place of business or residence of the person concerned 
or by giving or tendering it to some adult male member 
of his family , or 

( d ) if none of the methods aforesaid is practicable, 
by afixing it in some conspicuous place at the last known 
place of business of the person concerned . 

46 . Payment of fees. The following fees shall be 
payable in court-fee stamps - 

(1) On a memorandum of appeal 

against an order of assessment 
with or without penalty , or of 

penalty or of forfeiture . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 10 .00 
( ii) On an application for revision 

to the Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 15 .00 
(iii ) On any application for revision 

to the Government. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 25 , 00 
(iv ) On any other application or 

petition for relief to any autho 

rity under the Act or the rules . . .. . . . Rs, 2 .00 
( v ) On application for grant of 

copies vide sub -rule ( 4 ) of rule 


( 3 ) The court-fee paid on the application shall cover 
the first hour of inspection only . For each subsequent 
hour or part of an bour , an additional court- fee stamp 
of fifty Paise must be supplied by way of payment bo 
forehand . No fresh application shall be demanded for 
the continuation of an incomplete inspection on the next 
working day . 

( 4 ) A person entitled under sub -rule ( 2 ) to tho ing 
pection of any document , shall be granted a copy of 
the same on his making an application in this behalf 
bearing a court - fee stamp of the value of Re. 0 .50 P 
for every 100 words or part thereof ; an extra fee of 
one rupec if copies are required urgently , 

(5 ) A copy to be granted under sub -rule (4 ) shall 
be prepared in the office of the appropriate Assessing 
Authority . 

( 6 ) The provisions of sub -rules ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) shall apply 
illutis mufundis to inspection of records of the offices 
of the Appellate and Revising Authorities and grant of 
copies thereof, 

48. Delegation of Powers and Duties. — The Commis 
sioner may delegate the powers specified in columns 2 
and 3 of the First Schedule , to the officers specified in 
the corresponding entries in column 4 of the said 
Schedule . 

49. Execution of the bond . - When any security is 
demanded under sub - section ( 5 ) of section 11 , the bond 
to be executed therefor may be signed on behalf of the 
Goveroment either by the Commissioner or by the per 
son specifically authorised by him in this behalf, 

50 . Powers conferred upon any authority may be ex 
ercised by an authority superior to thut authority. - Any 
power conferred by these rules upon any authority 
may be exercised by an authority superior to that autho 
rity constituted under these rules. 

51 . Power to extend time. - - Where in these rules a 
period is prescribed for doing a certain act, the appro 
priate Assessing Authority may , for special reasons to 
be rocorded in writing , extend that period from time to 
time, but no such extension shall be granted beyond a 
period equal to the period so prescribed. 

52. Authority to withdraw complaint filed by an ap 
propriate Assessing Authority . – An Appellate Authority , 
or Revising Authority may , on its own motion or on an 
application in that behalt , withdraw a complaint field 
by an appropriate Assessing Authority . 

53 . Business owned by a person under disability . - - 
A trustee , a guardian or manager (whether appointed by 
a Court or otherwise ) or the Court of Wards carrying 
on a business on behalf of dealer, who is under disabi 
lity , shall be liable to perform all obligations imposed 
by the Act and these rules in respect of such business 
as if he was the dealer and had not been under dis 
ability and had been carrying on the business bimsolt . 

54 . Accounts, registers , cash memos, etc . to be pre 
served by a dealer. -- Every registered dealer and other 
dealers on whom a notice has been served under sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 15 , shall preserve his books of 
accounts , registers, cash memos, bills and other related 
documents for a period of not less than three years from 
the expiry of the year to which they relate , 

55 . Business forining part of estate under the control 
of a Court.- The Administrator-General, the official 
trustee , an executor or administrator, or any Receiver 
carrying on any business forming part of an estate 
placed under his control by order of a Court, shall be 
liablo to perform all obligations imposed by the Act and 
these rules in respect of such business to the same extent 
as if he was the dealer and also shall be liable to pay 
any tax assessed or penalty imposed thereon for the 
period during which he remained in control thereof. 


47. . . . . 


47 . Personal file and its inspection by the dealer, 
( 1 ) In the case of every dealer, who is required to do 
any act under the provisions of the Act or these rules, 
the appropriate Assessing Authority shall maintain a 
file , namely the personal fllc . 

(2 ) The dealer concerned or his agent, on making to 
the appropriate Assessing Authority a written application 
stamped with a court-fee of the value of Re. 1 may 
inspect the record of his personal file or any entries 
relating to himself in any register maintained under the 
Rules , 
M328GI/65 


56 . Nomination of head office in the case of a dealer 
having more than one place of business . - ( 1 ) Where 
a dealer bas within the Territory more than one place 
of business (hereinafter referred to as branches ) 
he shall nominate one of such branches as the head 
office of the business for the purpose of this rule. 

( 2 ) The dealer shall intimate the nomination under 
sub - rule ( 1 ) to all the appropriate Assessing Authorities , 
within whose jurisdiction such branches are situated , to 
gether with the situation thereof, before the close of any 
year in which business is done in one or more of such 
branches , 


134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


(PART III — SEC . 3 


(3 ) In a case falling under this rule , if the dealer 
fails to nominate one of the branches to be the head 
office , the Commissioner may nominate one of such 
branches to be the head office for the purpose of this 
rule . 

( 4 ) All applications , returns or statements prescribed 
under the Act or these rules shall be submitted in res 
pect of all the branches jointly by the head office to 
the appropriate Assessing Authority . 

(5 ) Tho turnover for the whole business shall be the 
aggregate of the turnover of all the branches , 

( 6 ) The person in charge of each branch shall at 
all reasonable time, on demand by the appropriate As 
sessing Authority , furnish the name and the address 
of the head office , and intimate whether or not his 
branch returns of turnover have been despatched to such 
head office . 

57. Special provisions in the cuse of dealers having 
niore than one place of business . - ( 1 ) In the case of 
a dealer having more than one place of business in tho 
I crtitory , 

( a ) all applications, including applications for the 
grant or renewal of certificates, shall be made, 

( b ) all returns of turnover, which shall include the 
turnover of all such places of business shall be sub 
mitted , and 

( c ) all notices and orders , required or permitted by 
tho Act or these rules to be served on any dealer , , shall 
be issued to and served on the person in charge of the 
hcad office reterred to in rule 56 . 

( 2 ) A notice, or order , issued to or served on the 
person in charge ot such head office, shall be deemed 
10 have been issued to and served on all branches of 
the dealer concerned . 

58 , Establishment of Check - post.- - ( 1 ) Check -post 
shall be set up und barriers erected across roads and 
thoroughfares as provided under sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 33 , The barriers shall be in the form of con 
trivance to enable traffic to be stopped . 

( 2 ) No person shall transport beyond a check -post 
any goods the sale of which is liable to tax under this 
Act except after filling declarations in the Form S . T . 
XXII in triplicate and presenting it to the check - post 
officer . 

( 3 ) A sub - inspector shall be in charge of a check 
post and he may be assisted by such staff as may be 
necessary . 

( 4 ) The driver of the vehicle carrying goods or the 
person in charge of the goods shall file all the threc 
copies of the declarations in Form S . T . XXIII at the 
check - post . The officer in charge of the check - post 
shall sign and date each copy of the declaration and 
mark it with the seal of the check - post. He shall then 
return one copy to the driver or the person in charge 
of the goods. Of the two copies of the declarations 
retained at the check - post, one shall be pasted in a guard 
file to be kept there and the other forwarded to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority of the Ward in which the 
consignor or the consignee, as the case may be, has his 
principal place of business. 

( 5 ) Eevery officer of the Sales Tax Department not 
below the rank of sub -inspector shall have authority to 
intercept and check and search any vehicle under sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 33 , 

59 . Superintendance and control of the administra 
tion under the Act. - - ( 1 ) (a ) The Government shall 
superintendent the administration and the collection of 
the tax leviable under the Act. 

(b ) Subject to the general control and superintendence 
of the Government, the Commissioner shall control all 
officers empowered under the Act. 

( c ) Subject as aforesaid and to the control of the 
Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner shall control 
all other officers empowered under the Act. 

( 2 ) The Sales Tax Officer or Assistant Sales Tax 
Officer in charge of an area is charged with the duty 
of carrying out the provisions of the Act, subject to 
the control of and direction of the Government, Com 
missioner and Assistant Commissioner, 


60 . Jurisdiction . — ( 1 ) For implementing the provisions 
of the Act and these rules, the Territory shall be divided 
into the following four wards comprised of the areas 
noted against each : 

(i) Panjim - Talukas of Tiswadi, Ponda , Bardez, 

Pernem , Bicholim and Satari . 
( ii) Margao — Talukas of Salecte , Marmagoa , 

Quepem , Sanguem and Canacona , 
( iii ) Daman - District of Daman , 

(iv ) Diu - District of Diu . 
( 2 ) All the er - Territory dealers shall be registered in 
the ward at Panjim , 

( 3 ) Besides the wards prescribed in sub -rule ( 1 ) the 
Commissioner may , by notification , specify a separate 
ward for dealers whose gross turnover exceed the amount 
fixed under proviso to clause ( c ) of rule 2 . 

61. Penalty , — Whoever commits a breach of any pro 
vision of these rules shall, on conviction by a Magis 
trate , be punishable , with a fine, which may extend to 
five hundred rupees , and in the case of a continuing 
breach with a daily fine, which may extend to fifty 
rupees . 

62 . Supply of copies of records. — The supply of copies 
of records shall be regulated according to the provisions 
set out in the Third Schedule . 

63 . Compounding of offences. — ( 1 ) Subject to the 
limitations in the Act, the Commissioner may decide 
to accept, on application from any person , a sum by 
way of composition of an offence committed by him 
under the Act or these rules, either before or after the 
commencement of the proceedings in respect of such 
offence . 

( 2 ) On taking a decision under sub -rule ( 1 ) , tho 
Commissioner shall, if there are no reasons to the cont 
rary , marke an order in writing specifying therein 

( a ) the sum determined by way of composition ; 

(b ) the date on or before which the sum shall bo 
paid into the Government Treasury ; 

( c ) the authority beforo whom and the date on or 
before which a receipted challan shall be produced in 
proof of such payment ; and 

( d ) the date on or before which the person shall 
report the fact to the Commissioner . 

( 3 ) The Commissioner shall send a copy of such 
order to the person concerned and also to the authority 
referred to in clause (c ) of sub -rule ( 2 ) . 

By order and in the name of thc Lieutenant Governor 
of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

T . B . NAGARAJAN 

Finance Secretary 


FIRST SCHEDULE 

( Sce Rule 48 ) 


SI, 


Section 


Description of Power 


Designation 
of Officer 


No. 


1 


2( in ) 


Power to permit altera - Assistant Com 
tion of option by the missioner . 
dealer in respect of inclu 
ding prices receivablc or 
actually received in the 
gross turnover ; and other 
power to impose terms 
and conditions on which 
alteration may be made. 
Power to require any dea - Sales Tax (Offi 
ler to deposit security . cers & Assistant 

Sales Tax Offi 

ccrs . 
Cancellation of Assistant Com . 
Rogistration , 

missioner , 


2 


11(5 ) 


3 


11 (7 ) (8 ) rulc 
10 ( 1 ) ( c ), (d ) 
( C ) . 
15 (2 ) 
rule 13 (6 ) 


4 


Power to require any un - Sales Tax Ofl 
registered dealer to fur cers & Assistant 
nish returns, 

Sales Tax Off 
cers . 


PART III - SEC, 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


135 


1 


2 


4 


42 


57, 17 & 18 To make an assessment Sales Tax Offi 
rules 13 , 18 & or reassessment of tax cers & Assistant 

or penalty or to fix a date Sales Tax Offi 
for payment or to extend CETS 
the date for payment of 
sales tax or penalty or 
to allow the payment 
of such tax or penalty by 
instalments and to czer 
cise all other powers un 

der sections 7 , 17 and 18 . 
6 20 

Power to require any Sales Tax Offi 
dealer to kecp such accou - cers & Assistant 
nts as may be prescribed, Sales Tax Offi 

cers . 
7 21 

Powers to require a dea - Assistant Com 
rules 29, 30 ler to produce accounts , missioner, Sales 
and 31 . furnish any information , Tax Officers & 

inspect the accounts Assistant Sales 
books and other records, Tax Officers . 
and to search premises 

And so on , 
8 27 (3 ) 

For revision of orders of Assistant Com 
the Sales Tax Officers or missioner . 
Assistant Sales Tax Offi 
cers, except orders of 
assessment. 


5 . Tho business , in respect of which this application is mado 
has been registered with tho Registrar of (if registered in any 
other Stato , also state tho name of such State ) : — 

6 . The proprietor , partner or other person is /aro member 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (here . . 
insert the name of tho Chamber of Commerce or Trude Asso 
ciation , Beopar Mandal, of which the said person / persons 
is/aro members.) 

7 . The businoss keeps accounts in . . . . . . . . 
(hero namo the language and script ). 

8 . The gross turnover of the business for the year 19 , . . . - 19 . . . , 
was Rs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (in figures ) Rupees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(in words) and it first exceeded the taxable quantum on . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . ( in the case of application for provisional 
registration , anticipated turnover during the year shall be 
of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . , , . ) . 
9 . The annual accounts are made up for sales up -to - date at 
tho end of every year , 

10 . The business has no separate warehouse ) . . . . . ... . . . ... . . 
(number of) separate warehouse as detailcd below and no others 
(hore indicate the full address of each of them ) - 


SECOND SCHEDULE 
(Forms S . T . I to S . T . XXIII) 

FORM S . T , I. 
Application for Compulsory /Voluntary / Provisional/Special 
registration under section 11/12 /13/14 of the Goa, Daman 
& Diu (Sales Tax Act 1964 for Dealers haying only one 
place of business In the Union Teritory ofGoa . Daman and Diu 

( See rule 4 of the Sales Tax Rules, 1964 ) 


. . . . . . 

. . . ... . . 
11. The following classes of goods are ordinarily purchased 
by the business : 

( a) for resale : 
(6 ) for purpose of manufacturo ; 
(c) for use in the packing of goods for sale /resale (con 

tainers and other packing materials ) ; 
12 . The business manufactures for sale the following classes 
of goods : 

13 . The business doos / doos not import goods direct from 
other Countries / States ; 

14 . In the caso of special registration enter here the number 
of the previous certificate of registration , the Ward in which 
registerod and the date of its cancellation : 


To , 


DECLARATION 
I hereby declarc that the above statements are true and 
complete to the best of my knowledge and belief, 
Place , 
Dated . . 

(Signature of Dealer ) 


I 


I 


. . . 


. . . 


. . . . . 


. 


. . . . . . . 


. 


. . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . 


The Assessing Authority , 

. . . . . . . . . Ward 
I,. . . . . . . ...... 
Proprietor/Manager/Partner/Director of the business known 
as . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
situated at . . . . . . 
heroby apply on behalf of the said business for a certificato of 
registration under the Goa , Daman and Diu ( Sales Tax ) Act , 
1964 and attach hercwith a treasury /bank receipt No. . . . . . . . 
for Rs. 5 /- being the registration foc . 
3. The business is : 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 
Partly 

Partly 
pot 3. The name(s) and address ( es ) of the proprietor of the busi 
ness / partnors of the business /all persons having any interest 
in the business managing director of the Company together 
with their father s Dame, etc ., HIC as under : 


FORM S . T . II 
Application for Compulsory Voluntary / Provisional/Special 
registration under Section 11 / 12 / 13 / 14 of the Goa , Daman 
& Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 for dealers having moro 
than one place of business in the Union Territory of Goa Daman 
And Dla . 
( See rule 4 of Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 1964) 


To , 


an . . 


Name 


Father s 

or 
husband s 

name 


Age 


Home 
address 


Signature 


The Assessing Authority , 

.. ...... ..... . Ward . 
1 , . . . , . . . . , 
Proprietor /Manager /Partner /Director of the business known 
whoso Head Office in the Union Territory of Goa , Daman 
and Diu is situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
hereby apply on behalf of the said business for a certificate 
of registration under the Goa, Daman and Diu ( Sales Tax ) 
Act, 1964 , and attach herewith a treasury / bank receipt 
No.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for Rs. 3 /- being the registration fec . 
2 . The business is: 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 

Partly 
3 . The name(s) and address (es) of the proprietor of the 
business / partners of the business / all persons having any 
interest in thọ business managing director of the Company 
together with their fathers namic , etc., aro as under : 


4 . The proprietor or any partner of, or any other person 
having an interest in the business has interest in no other busi 
ness anywhere in India /has interest in the following other 
business in India - 


Father s 


Name and parti 
culars of the busi 

ne : ses 


Address of places 

of business 


Or 


Home 


Name(s ) of the 
proprietor, partner 
or other persons 


SS 


Name 


Signature 


husband s 

Dum 


136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887 ) 


PART 111 - Sec , 3 


TL 


4 . Tho Proprietor or any partner of, or any other person 
having an interest in the business has interest in no other busi 
noss anywhere in India has interest in the following other busi 
nesses in India — 


said business for a certificate ofregistration undor tho Goa , Daman 
and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964, and attach herowith a trea 
sury /Bank receipt No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for Rs. 5/- being 
the rogistration fee , 

2 . The namo of the proprietor /the nanos of tho partners of 
the business/ the names of all persons having any interest in the 
business /Managing Director of the Company , together with their 
father s name, ago , home address , etc . are as under : 


Name of the pro - Names and particu - Addresses of places 
prietor , partner or lars of the business of business 
other persons 

- - - 

- - — .... .. - - - - -- - - - - 


Nan 


Father s 
or husband s 

Name 


Age 


Signature 


- 


. 


Home 
Addresi 


- - - 


3 . The proprietor any partner of any other person having 
an interest in the businoss has no intorcst in other business any 
where in India has intcrost in the following other businesses in 
India : 


Name of the pro - Names and particu - Addresses of places 
Prietor, partner of laſs of the busincses ofbusiness 

other persons, 


5 . The business in respect of which this application tis made , 
has been registered with the Registrar of (if registered in any 
other State , stato also the name of such State ) : 

6 . The Proprietor /partner or interested person /s is /are mem 
bor /8 . . . . . . . . . . . , , , , , . . of . . . . . . 

. . . . (here 
insort tho nameof tho Chamber of Commerco or Trade ASSO 
ciation , Bcorar Mandal, of which the said person persons 
is / aro mombers). 

7 . The business koeps accounts in . . 
( here name the languago and script). 

8 . The gross turnover of the business for the yoar 19 . - 19 . . 
was Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . ( in figures ) Rupeos , . , . , . , 
( in words ) and it first exceeded the taxable quantum on . . . . 

. . . . . . . . ( in the case of application for 
provisional registration , anticipated turnover during the year hull 
be of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ) . 

9. The annual accounts are made up for sales up -to -date 
at the end of every yeur , 

10 . The following classes of goods are ordinarily purchased 
by the business 

(a ) for resale : 
(b) for purposo of manufacture : 
(c ) for use in tho packing of goods for salc / Icrale ( con 

tainers and other packing materials ) : 
11. The business manufactures for sale the following classes 
of goods ; 

12 , Tho business docs/ does not infort gocds direct from 
other Countries /States. 

13 . The business has . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (number of ) additional 
places of business and has no separate warchouse / . . . . . . 
(number of) separate Warehouse at the addresses enumeratçd 
below and no other warehouses or places of business : 

( a ) Additional places of business - ( ir dicate their full 

address). 


4 . The business , in respect of which this application is made 
has been registered with the Registrar of ( if registored in any 
other State, also state the name of such State ) : 

5. Tho Proprietor/partner or other person . . . , in /aro member 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of tho . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . ( here 
insort tho name of the Chamber of Commerce or Trade Asso 
ciation or Bcopar Mandal of which , the said person /persons 
is /are members ). 

6 . The business keeps accounts in . . 
(here name the language and script). 

7. The annual gross turnover of the business for the yeur 
. . ... - 19 . . . . was Rs.. . . . . . . . . . . . ( in figures) Rupues . . . . . . . . 
. . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (in words ). 
8. The accounts are maintained from to . . . . . . . . , 


to . . . . . . . 


9 . The business ordinarily cleals in the following goods : 

10 . Tho businoss ordinarily manufactures for sale tho fol 
lowing goods : 

11. Tho doaler has additional places of business at the fol 
lowing placos : 
12 . I am /the business is rogistered in the Sales Tax Depart 

. . . . . . . . State and my/our 
Registration Certificate No . is .. .. . 


. . . . . . 
5 . . . . . . . . 
Warehouses :— (indicate their full address ). 


. 


2 . . . . . . . .. 
3 . . . . . . . . 
4 . , . . . . 


14 . In tho case of special registration enter here the number 
of the previous certificate of registration , the Ward in which 
registered and the date of its cancellation : 


DECLARATION 
I hereby declare that the abovo statements aro truo and comp 
loto to the best of my knowledgo and belief. 
Place . . . , . . 
Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(Signature of Dealor) 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
(For uso in Salos Tax Office only) 
(a ) Ingued Registration Certificate No .. . . .. .. 
dated . . 
(b ) Application rejected , 

Signaturo , . . . . . . . 
Sales Tax Officer nominated for Ex 

Territory Dealers . 


DECLARATION 
I hereby declare that the above statements are true and ccmp 
leto to the best of my knowledge and belief, 
Place . 
Dated , . . . 

( Signature of Dcaler ) 


FORM S . T . ITI 
Form of application for registration under the Goa , Daman and 
Dla (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 for Ex- Territory Dealers selling 
goods in the Union Territory of Goa , Daman and 

Diu , 
(See rule 4 of tho Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 


FORM S . T. IV 
Certificate of Registration for a dealer baying Only one place 
of Business in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and 

Dlu . 
(Seo rule 3 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964 ) 
No . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Ward 
This is to certify that Shri/Messrs/the .. .. . 


To , 


. . 


The Assessing Authority , 


. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


I , 


. . . ) 


Proprietor/Manager /Partner/Director of the business 


known 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
who/which is/are carrying on the business known as. . 

. . . . . and situated at . . . . . . . . . 
has boen registored as dealer under section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the 
Goa , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964, with effect from . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . 19 , . . . until cancelled /upto . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . 


UB 


. . . . . 


. . . . . . . . 


. . . . . 


situated at . . . 
n tho Stato uf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . hereby aftly on huolf of the 


PART II- - SFC . 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


137 


FORM S . T. VI 
Certificate of Special Registration for a Dealer. llable under 
Section 5 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 

(See rule 5 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964 ) 
No .. . . 

. . ... . . . Ward 
This is to certify that Shri/Messrs/ the . .. 


Watch 


2 . The busloess is :- . 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 
Partly 

Partly 
3. The sales of the following goods to this dealer will be 
frco of tax : 

(a ) For rosale : 
(b ) For purposes of manufacture : - 
( c ) For uso in the packing of goods for sale /resale (con 

tainers and other packing materials) : 
4 . The return in Form S . T . VIII shall be furnished by the 
dealer annually quarterly /monthly , along with the receipt of 
the payment of the tax . 

5 . The tax is payable annually quarterly /monthly , 

6 . The dealer keeps no separate warchouse . . . . , 
( number of ) warehouses at the following places : 


Dated . 


Sual of Asses- Signature . . . . , 
sing Authority | Assessing Authority 


. . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . Ward 
Note: — (1) This registration certificate shall te displayed 

by the dealer at the business premises and it shall 
be produced for inspection on demand by any 
person exercising authority under the Act and 

thesc rules. 
(2 ) Any change in the name, place or ownership of 

the business should be noticed within 30 days 
and the Registration Certificate got amended 
accordingly . 


who /which is/ are carrying on the business known As . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . and with place of business /Head Office situa 
ted at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .has been registered under section 14 
of the Goa , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 , with effect 
from , . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . until cancelled . 
2. The business is : 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 

Partly 
3 . The dealer has no additional place of buşincss / . . . . . . . 
( number of) additonal places of business at the addresses noted 
below : 

4 . The dealer has no separate Warehouse / . . . . . 
(number of ) warehouses at the addrcsses noted below : 

5. The dealer generally sells the following goods : 

6 . Tho return in Form S . T . VIII shall be furnished by the 
dealer annually / quarterly /monthly , along with the receipt of 
the payment of the tax , 

7 . The tax is payable annually /quarterly /monthly . 
Date . . 

Assessing Authority 

. . . . , , . . , , . Ward 
NOTES 

( a ) This registration certificato or copy thercof shall bo 

displayed by the dealer at every place of business 
and it shall be produced for inspection on demand 
by any person exercising authority under tho Act 

and these rules . 
(6 ) Any change in the name, place or ownership of the 

business or number of places of business should be 
notificd within 30 days and the Registration Corti 
ficato got umended or replaced accordingly . 


FORM S . T . y . 
Cortificate of Registration for a Dealer having more than one 
place of Business in the Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Dio . 

(See rule 5 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 
No . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward 
This is to certify that Shri/Messrs/ the . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
who /which is / aro carrying on the business known as , . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . and whosc Head Office in the Union Territory 
of Goa , Daman and Diu is situated at . . , 
has been registered as dcaler under section . . . 

101 . . . . . . . . . . . , , , . of 
Cou , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964, 
2 . The business is : 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 


FORM S . T . VII 
Cortificate of Registration for an Ex - Territory Dealer Relling 
goods in the Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Dlo . 

(See rulo 5 of Sales Tax Rules , 1964 ) 
No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

: . , Ward 
This is to cortifify that Shri/Messrs/the . . . . . . . . . . 


R 


- 


Partly 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Partly 
3 . The dealer has , . . . . . . . . . . . . . (number of) additional 
places of business at tho addresses noted below : 

4 . The dealer has no separate warchouse / . . . 
( number of) warehouses at the addresses noted below : 

5. Tho sales of the following goods to this dealer will be freo 
of tax : 

(a ) For resulo - 
(6 ) For purposes of manufacture : 
(c ) For the use in packing of goods for sale /resale (con 

tainers and other packing materials) : 


6 . The return in Form S , T , VIII is to be furnished by the 
donlor annually / quarterly /monthly , along with the receipt of 
the payment of the tax . 

7. The tax is payable annually / quarterly /monthly . 
Dated , 

Assessing Authority 


. . . . . . . 
who /which is /are carrying on the business known as . . . . . . 

. . . . with place of business /Head Office situated at 
, , ; , , , . . .. . . .. . ..., has beon registered as dealor under 
th Goa , Damın and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 with effect 
from . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . 19 . . . . until cancelled . 
2 . The business is : 

Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 

Partly 
3 . Tho dealer gonorally sells the following goods in the Union 
Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

4 . The return in Form S . T . VILI shall be furnished by the 
dealor annually quartorly /monthly and shall include all sales 
made in tho Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu . 

5. The tax is payablo annually /quarterly /monthly . 
Dated . . . . . . . . 

Signature . 
Assossing Authority 

Ward 


. . . . . . . . . Ward 


NOTES : 

(a ) This registration certificate or copy thereof shall be 

displayed by the dealer at cvery place of business 
and it shall be produced for inspection on demand 
by any person exercising authority under the Act 
and these rules . 


1 


. 


. 


. 


+ 


. 


. 


. . I 


I I 


(6 ) Any chango in tho namo, place of ownership of the 

business or number of places of business should be 
notified within 30 days and the Registration Certi 
ficate got amended or replacod accordingly . 


NOTE 


Any change in the name or ownership of the businoss 
should be notified within 30 days and tho Rogistration 
Cortificato got amended accordingly . 


138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


(PART III - SEC , 3 


AN 


FORM S . T. VICT 
Return of Sales Tax payable for the year /quarter /month end 

ing 
( See rulo 13 of theGoa, Daman and Diu Sales 

Tax Rulos , 1964 ) 
Registration Cortificate No.. . . . 

. . . . Ward 
Name of the Dealer . 
Address of the Doaler . . . 


FORM S . T . IX 
Application for permission for payment of a fixed fee in ler 
of Tax under sub - section 2 of gection 7 of the Act, 
( See rulo 14 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Şalos 

Tax Rules, 1964) 


TO . 


Amount 


A . Salos prices received and roceivablo for 

goods sold or supplied during the re 

turn - period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Doductions from above galos pricos) : 


The Assossing Authority, 

. . Ward 

. . . . . . . . . . . son of. . . . . . ... . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . Proprietor /partner /manager of tho 
businoss , the particulars of which are detailed below hereby 
apply for permission to compound for the tax assossable by 
paying in lcu thereof a lump sum : 

( 1) Namo of the doalor - 
( 2 ) Placo of businoss 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(3 ) Rogistered in . . . . . . . . . . 

Ward 
(4 ) Rogistration Cortificato No . . . . . 
(5) Status (of the business). . . . . . . . . . . 
( Particulars of goods doalt in :- . . . 


B . ( ) Cost of freight, delivory or instal 

lation charges in caso they are 
separately shown to the customer 
in the cash memo or bill and if 
they are included in above referred 

sales prico . . . . . . . . . . 
(11) Cash discount allowed according 

to ordinary trade practice , in caso 
it is separately shown to the cus 
tonier in tho cash momo or bill 
and if it is included in above re 
forod sales pricos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


C . Gross turnover ( A minus B ) . . . ... . . . 
D . Deductions (from abovo gross turn 
over ) : 
(1) Turnover on Tax-free goods sold 

(Soction 7 (3 ) ( 1) . . . . 
(1 ) Turnover on goods sold to regis 

tored dealers (Section 7 (3) (II ) : 
(a ) ( ) .. 


(7) Turnover of the business and tax thoroon during the 

your preceding that for which the permission is 
şought - 
(1) Year : 
(1 ) Gross turnovor : 
(III) Taxablo turnover : 

( iv ) Tax paid : 
( 8 ) Estimatod turnover and tax for tho year for which 

permission is sought 

(1 ) Yoar : 
(11) Gross turnover : 
(ii) Taxablo turnover : 

(iv ) Tax : 
(9 ) Circumstances under which the application is belng 

made : 
I declare that the abovo statomonts are truo and comploto 
to tho best ofmy knowledgo and bellof. 
Dated . . . . . . . . . 

Signataro . . . . . . . 


FORM S . T . X 
Certificate granting permission for payment of lump som In llou 
of tax under gub- section 2 of section 7 of the Goa, Daman 

and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 
( See rulo 14 of the Goa , Daman and Dlu Salos Tax Rulos, 


1964) 


(tv) . . . 
(6) 
(III ) Turnover on goods sold as per 

Soction 7 (3 ) ( III). ( Taxable at 

first point) . . . . . . 
( iv) Turnover on goods sold to any 

undortaking supplying electrical 
energy to tho public (Section 

7 (3 ) (TV ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(v) Turnovor od goods sold to an ad . 

dress outside Goa, Daman and 

Diu as per Section 7 ( 3) ( V ) . . . . . . 
(vi) Turnovor on goods sold as per 

Soction 7 (3 ) (VI) . . . . . . . . . . . 
B. Taxable turnover (C minus D ).. 
F . Amount of tax payablo on taxable turn 

over (E ): (Soe Section 7 (1)(a )(b ) 

c ) : 
(1 ) At the rato of 10 Paise in the ru 

poo , calculatod on Rs., . . . . . . . . . 
(II) At the rate of 2 Paiso in thorupco , 

calculated on Rs. . . . . . . . 
(ill ) At the rate of 5 Paise in the rupco , 

calculated on Rs. . . . . . . . . . 
(fv ) . . . 

.. . . . 
Total amount of tax payablo . . . . men 
G . Amount, if any , credited by Rofund 

Adjustinont Ordor No. . . . dated . . , 
H . Amount of tax paid . . ..... . . . . ... . . . . . . 

Total sum . . . . . . . . . 


Cortificato No.. . . . . . . 

For the year 19.. - 19 . . 
Sales Tax Officer , 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward 

This is to cortify that tho dealor whogo particulars are dotailod 
below is permittod to compound for tho tax assessablo on his 
taxable turnover for the financial year. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . by payment, in lieu 
thoroof, of the amount of lump sum as specified below : 

( 1) Name of the douler :— . . . . . . 
(2 ) Place of business . . . , 
(3 ) Registration Cortificate No. -- . . . .. 
(4) Particulars of goods dealt in = . . . . . . . . 


(5) Period for which porinission to compound tax is grant 
tod : — from . . . . . , 

. . . . . . 19 . . 
to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . , . . 
(6 ) Amount of lump sum payable - Rs.. . . . . . . . 
(7) When payable : 
This provision is subjoct to the following conditions - 
(8 ) Conditions - 
( 1) The dealor shall not start a now branch of busi 

noss or make any change in the naturo or des 
cription of goods sold without previous per 

mission . 
(2 ) The dealer shall surronder this certificato within 

ton days after the expiry of its validity or when 
over required to do so . 

Signaturo . 
Dato . . . . . . . . 

( Soal) Dosignation . . . . . 


1. Number and date of tho relevant troa . 

sury /Bank roceipt attached to this ro 
turn in proof of paymont : 


U 


U 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


! 


" . . 


Lump 


Date of 
rogowal 


Year for 
which 
ronowed 


When 
payable 


DECLARATION 
I hereby declare that tho abovo statomonts aro truo and 
complote to the bost of my knowlodgo and belief. 
Placo 
Dato 


sum 


Name and 

dosigna 
tion of 
thoronow 
ing officor . 


dotorminod 


(Signature of Doalor ) 


PART III— SEC . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887 ) 


139 


1 


4 


Counterfoil 

Duplicato 

Original 
FORM S . T . XI 

FORM S . T . XI 

FORM S , T . XI 
The Goa , Daman and Dlu Sales Tax Rules, The Go , m and Dlu Sales Tax Rules, The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 
1964 

1964 
FORM OF DECLARATION 

FORM OF DECLARATION 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(Sce Rule 15) 

(See Rulo 15 ) 

(See Rule 15 ) 
Sales Tax Office , Year 196 . . ..- 196 . . Sales Tax Office, Year 196 ..- 196 . . Sales Tax Office, Year 196 . .-196 . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . ward 

. .. .. . . . . . ,ward 

. . . . . . . . . .ward 
Serial No. Al. . . . . . ( Seal of) Serial No. A / . . . . . . ( Scal of) Serial No . A / . . ., 

(Seal of) 
(issuing ) (işsuing ) 

( issuing) 
( authority ) (authority ) 

( authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in Certified that the goods mentioned in Certified that the goods mentioned in 
the cash memo/bill No . . . . . . . . did . . . . . . . . the cash memo /bill No , . . . . . dtd . . . . . . . . . the cash memo/bill No .. . . . . . did .. . . . . . 
bave been purchased by me/ us from M /s . have been purchased by me/us from M /s . have been purchased by mc/ us from M /s 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and are . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and arç . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , and are 
duly covered lvy my/our registration cer- duly covered by my /our segistration cer- duly covered by my/our registration cer . 
lificato No .. . . . . .. . . . .. . dtd .. . . . . . .. . ,and tificate _No .. . . . . .. . . . . .. dtd . . . . . .. . and tificate No.. .. . . . .. dtd . . . . . . .. . . . . .. and 
they are intended for resale/use as raw they are intended for resalc /use as raw they are intended for resale /use as raw 
materials in the manufacture of goods materials in the manufacture of goods materials in the manufacture of goods 
for sale /use in the packing of goods for for sale /use in the packing of goods for for sale /use in the packing of goods for 
sale /resale, within the Territory , 

salc /resale , within the Territory . 

sale /resale , within thc Territory . 
Name & address in full of the purcha - Namo & address in full of the purcha - Name & address in full of the purcha 
sing dealer - 

sing dealer : 

sing dealer - - 


Dale . . . . . . . . . . 

Date . . . . .. . . . 

Date . . . . . . . . . . 
(Signature ) (Signature ) 

(Signature) 
( Strike out whichever is not applicable ). (Striko out whichever is not applicable ). (Strike out whichever is not applicable ). 
(Note :-- to be retained by the purchasing ( Note :- to be retained by the selling [Note : — to be furnished by the seller to 
dealer ] 

dealer) . 

the Assessing Authority ). 


Counterſoil 

Duplicate 

Original 
FORM S . T . XI 

FORM S . T . XII 

FORM S . T . XII 
The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 
1964 1964 

1964 
FORM OF DECLARATION 

FORM OF DECLARATION 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(Soo Rulo 15 ) 

(Sco Rule 15) 

(See Rule 15) 
Sales Tax Office, , Year 196 .. -196 . . Sales Tax Office, Year 196 . .- 196 .. Sales Tax Office, Year 196 .. -196 . . 
. . . . . ward . . . . . . . . . .ward 

. . . . . . . . . .ward 
Serial No. B ). . . .. . ( Scal of ) Serial No. B /. . . . . . ( Seal of ) Serial No. B /. . . . . . 

( Seal of 
( issuing) ( issuing ) 

( issuing ) 
(authority) ( authority ) 

(authority 


Certified that the goods mentioned in Cortificd that the goods mentioned in Certified that the goods mentioned in 
the cash memo/bill No. . . . . . . dtd . . . . . . . . . the cash memo/ bill No. . . , . . . dtd . . . . . . . the cash memo/bill No. . . . . . . dtd . . . . . . . 
have been purchased by me/us from have been purchased by me/us from have been purchased by me/us from 
M / s. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . M / s . . . . . . . . 

... . . . . . . . . M / s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
and are duly covered by my/ our Regis- and are duly covered by my/our Regis - and are duly covered by my/our Regis 
tration Certificate No. . . . . . . . . . dtd . . . . . . . . tration Certificate No . . . . . . . . dtd . . . . . . . . tration Certificate No . . . . . . dtd .. . . . . . 
( issued in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ward ) and the 

. . . . . . . . . . ward ) and they are (issued in . . . . . . ... . . . .ward ) and thoy are (issued in . . . . . . . . . . ward ) and they are 
intended for re- sale in the course of inter - intended for re -sale in the course of inter - intended for re -sale in the course of inter 
State trade or commerce /resale in the State trade or commerce /resale in the Stato trade or commerce /resale in the 
course of export out of India or resale after course of export out of India or resale after course of export out of India or resalc after 
such export . 

such export . 

such export. 
Namo & address in full of the purchasing Name & address in full of the purchasing Name & address in full of the purchasing 
dealers - 

dealer : 

dealers - 


. . 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. . 


. 


Date , 


Date . . . . . 


Date . . . . . . . . 


is 


(Signature) 
(Strike out whichever is not applicable) 
[ Note : — to be retained by the purchasing 
dcaler ]. 


(Signature ) 
(Strike out whichever is not applicable ) 
[Note : -- to be retained by the selling dea 
ler ). 


( Signature) 
(Strike out whichever is not applicable ) 
[Note : - to be furnished by the seller to 
the Assessing Authority ). 


140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[ PART III - SEC , 3 


And there are ocrtalo points in connection with the re -turn (s 
submittod by you undor soction 15 of the Goa , Daman and Diu 
(Salos Tax ) Act, 1964 , in regard to which I should liko somo 
further information for assessing your sales in respoct of tho 
above mentioned poriod under sub- soction (1 ) of section 17 
of the samo Act ; 

(6 ) You , a dealer registored under Certificate No. .. . . . . . . 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . ..... . . ward have not furnished return (s ) re 
quired under section 15 of the Goa , Dainan and Diu (Salos 
Tax ) Act, 1964, for the year(s) / quarter (s)/Month (s) onding 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. . 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


FORM S. T . XIII 

Certificato ofNon - Taxablo Turnover 
(See rule 16 of tho Goa, Daman and Diu Salos Tax Rules , 

1964 ) 
Sales Tax Officer , 

. . . . . . . . .Ward 
Certificate No .. 
WHEREAS . . . . 

. . . . . .. (doalor ) 
bearing Registration Cortificate No.. . . . . . . . . . dated . . . . . . . . . 
has doclarod that no sales offocted by him aro liablo to tax under 
the Goa , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act , 1964 , it is hereby 
certified that the said . . . . . . . . 

. . . . (dealer ) is not requircd 
to furnish any returo in Form S . T . VIII under the Goa, Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Rulos , 1964 , in respoct of the yoar . . . . . . . . . 

Signature . , . 

(Assessing Authority ) 
Place . . . . . . . . 
Dated . 

Renewals 


And it appears to me to bo nocessary to make an assessment 
under sub - section ( 1) of section 17 of the same Act in respect 
of the abovo poriod ; 


(c) You import into tho Territory /manufacturo /process 
purchaso goods for sale and I am satisfled on information which 
has come into my possession that your salos in the year . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . have exceeded tho 
taxablo quantum and you have been liable to pay tax under 
the Goa , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964, in respect 
of poriod commencing on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .but that 
you failod to get yourself registered under section . . . . . . . . . . of 
the said Act in timo, and it appears to me to be necossary to 
inake an assessment under sub -soction (2 ) of section 17 of tho 
Said Act in respect of the period from . . 
to . . . . 


Date of 
Tonicwal 


Yoar for which 

renewod 


Signature of Assossing Au 

thority 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- - 


FORM $ . T. XIV 
Notice under Section 17 of theGoa,Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) 

Act, 1964. 
(See rulo 18 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Salos Tax Rules, 

1964 ) 

Sales Tax Office, 

. . . . . . . . .Ward 
No . Dated the 

19 . . . . . . 


I should be obliged therefore, if you could altepd my office 
at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . at . . . , . . . . 
eithor in porson or by an agent and there to produce or cause 
thore to be produced at the said timo and placo the accounts 
and documents spocifiod bolow for tho purposos of such assess 
mont, together with any objection which you may wish to profer 
and any uvidonco which you may wish to adduco in connection 
thorowith , and also to show cause on that date and at that timo 
as to why in addition to the amount of tax to bo assessed on 
you a penalty as prescribod under section 17 should not be im 
posod on you . 


To, 


2. In the event of your failuro to comply with this notice, 
shall procoed to asses under section 17 of tho Goa, Daman and 
Diu (Salos Tax ) Act, 1964 to the best of my judgement without 
furthor reforonco to you . 


Signature . . . . . . . . 

Assessing Authority 


Whereas , 
(a ) You , a doalor registered under Certificato No.. . . . . 

. . . . .. . . . ..ward have furnished return (s) for 
tho year (s) quarter(s) month (s) ending . . . . . . . . . . . 


of. . . 


Particulars of account and documents requirod to be pro 
duced — 


S 


PART 
III 
— 
SEC 
. 
3 
] 


gures ) 


ORIGINALS DUPLICATE TRIPLICATE S 

QUADRUPLICATE 
(To be retained by (To be furnished by 

(For the Treasury ) 

( To be sent hy Treasury 
he payer ) the payer to the 

to the respective Sales 
respective Assessing 

Tax Office ) 
Authority ) 
FORM S , T , XV 

FORM S . T . XV FORM ST. XV 

FORM S . T . XV 
CHALAN 

CHALAN CHALAN 

CHALAN 
The Goa , Daman and Dio Sales Tax Act, 1964 Tte Goa , Daman and Diu Salts Tax Act , 1961 The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act , 1964 

The Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1961 
( See rule 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales ( Sce rule 21 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales ( See rule 21 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales ( See rule 21 of the Goa , Damian acil Diu Sales 
Tax Rules , 1964 ) 

Tar Rules , 1964 ) Tax Rules, 1964 ) 

Tax Rules , 1964 ) 
XI Sales T2X XI – Sales Tax 

11 - Sales Tax 

XII - Sales Tax 
Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 

Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 

Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 
Chalan of tas, penalty , composition money, í Chalan of tax , penalty , composition money , Chalan of fax , penalty , composition: money, Chalan of tur, penalty , composition money , 
registration fes und other fees raid to the . . . . . . registration fee and other fees paid to the . . . . . . ) registiation fee and otber fees paid to tliv . . . . . . registration fee and other is paid to the . . . . . . 
Treasury / Sub- Treasury | Treasury / Sub - Treasury 

Treasury / Sub - Treasury 

Treasury /Sub - Treasury 
Branch of the State Bank of India for the period Branch of the State Bank of India for the period Branch of the State Bank of India for the period Branch of the State Bank of India for the period 
Reserve Bank of India Reserve Bank of India Reserve Bank of India 

Reserve Bank of India 
tt0m . . vv . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

from . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . , 

I from . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . 
Amo Ama 

Ano 

Amo 
Payment on unt 

Payment on Payment on unt 

Payment on Junt 
account of (in fi 

account of (in f account of tin fi 

fi 

account of 
gures) gures ) 

gules) 
By whom tendered . . . 11) Tax under sec By whom tendered . . . . . . | Tax under sec 

By whom tendered . . . . 1 i) Tax under sec 

By whom tendered . . . . . . (1) Tax under sewa 
tions 15 to 18 
. . . ; - . : . , . . . .. 

tions 15 to 18 tions 15 to 18 

tions 15 10 18 
Name and address of ( ñ ) Penalty under Name and address of (i ) Penalty under Name and address of ( i ) Penalty under 

Name and address of ( i ) Penalty under 
the person on whose section . . . . . . the person on whose section . . . . . . 

the person on whose section . . . . . . 

the person on whose 

section . . . . . . 
behalf money is paid . behalf money is paid , 

behalf money is paid , 

behalf money is paid . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (in) Composition ( III) Composition 

(iii) Composition 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( ii ) Composition 
money . . . . . . 

money . . . . . . money . . . . . . . . 

money . . . . . . 
Registration Certificate (iv ) Registration fee Registration Certificate (iv) Registration 

Registration Certificate (iv) Registration fee 

Registration Certificate (iv ) Registration 
No . . . . . . . , issued by 

No . . . . . . . . . . issued 
- " - - . - . - . - . . 

by fco . . . . . . . . No . . . . . . . . issued by 

No . . . . . . . . . . issued by 
the Sales Tax Office the Sales Tax Office of . . . . the Sales Tax Office 

the Sales Tax Otice of. . . . 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward . (v) Other fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward , (v) Other fees . . .. 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ward , (v ) Other fees . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . Ward . 

Other fees .. 
( V ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( vi ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( 1 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Total. . . . . . . 

Total . . . , . . Total. . . . . 

Total , . .. . . 
Rupees (in words) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rupees (in words). . 

Rupees ( in words) . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 

Rupees (in words). . 
Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . Dated . . . . . . Dated . . 

Dated . . . . . . . 
(Signature of Dealer 

Signature of Dealer ( Signature of Dealer 

Signature of Dealer 
or Depositor) 

or Depositor or Depositor) 

or Depositor 
( For use in the treasury ) (For use in the treasury ) 

( For use in the treasury ) 

(For use in the treasury ) 
1. Received payment of Rs.. . . . . . 

1 . Received payment of Rs.. . . . , · 1 1. Received payment of Rs.. 

11. Received payment of Rs.. . . . 
in figures ; 

(in figures) 

( in figures ) 
Rupees . Rupces , . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Rupees . . . . . . . . . 

Rupees . . . . . . . . . . . 
(in words ) 

( in words ) 

(in words ) 
2. Date of entry . . . 2. Date of entry . . . . . .. 

2 . Date of entry . . . . . . . . 
Chalan No. 

Chalan No. 

Chalan No. 
Treasury Officer, Treasury officer 

Treasury Officer 

Treasury officer 
Treasurer, Accountant, Treasurer , Accountant, 

Treasurer, Accountant, - 

Treasurer, Accountant, 
Agent or Manager Agent or Manager Agent or Manager 

Agent or Manager 
Stamp of Treasury Stamp of Treasury 

Stamp of Treasury 

Stamp of Treasury 
LM328GI/65 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,NOVEMBER13,1965(KARTIKA22,1887) 


- 


. 


fee . . . . . . . . 


- 


- 


. . . 


(in figures) 


in Words) 


2. Date of entrymento 


141 


142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 188 


[ PART III - Sec. 3 


RS. 
RS. 


FORM S . T . XVI 
Notice of agsessment under Section 17 of the Goa, Daman and 

Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 
(See rulo 25 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rulos , 

1964 ) 

Salos Tax Office, 

. . . . . . . . . , Ward . 
No. .. .. .. . .. .... .. .. .. . ., datod . . .. .. 


(2) Ponalty imposed 

Rs. 
Total of B ( 1) and B ( 2 ) 
Loss amount paid already 
Net amount duo 

Rs. 
You are heroby dirocted to pay the sum of Rs.. . .. . . . . 
(in figures ), Rupoos . . . . . . . 

Treasury 
( in words) into the Sub -treasury at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (place ) 


OS . . . 


. . 


. . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . .N 


I 


+ H 


II + . 


1 


To , 


. 


. 


+ 


I 


+ 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Stato Bank of India 
on or bofore . . . . . . . 

. . . . (date ) and furpish the 
receipt in proof of payment to this office on or bofore . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . ( dato ) failing which the said sum 
will be recoverable from you as an arrear of land revenue. 
2. A chalan in form S . T . XV is onclosed for the purpose . 

Signature . .. 

Assessing Authority 
( Seal of Assessing Authority ) 


You are hereby informod that your taxable turnover for 
the your /quarter /month ending . . . . 
boon assessed to sales tax , penalty ctc ., as under - 
A . Taxablo turnover deterinined Rs. 
B . (1) Tax assessed 

Rs. 


. . . . has 


FORM S . T . XVII 

FORM S . T . XVII 

FORM S . T . XVII 
(See rule 28 of tho Goa , Daman and! ( See rulo 28 of the Goa , Daman and (See rule 28 of the Goa , Daman and 
Dju Sales Tax Rules , 1964 ) 

Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964 ) 
Book No. . . . . . 

Voucher No . . . . . . Book No. . . . . . . Voucher No. . . . . Book No. . . . . . . Voucher No.. . . . 
REFUNDS REFUNDS 

REFUNDS 
Counterfoil order for the rofund of tax and / or Ordor for the refund of tax and / or penalty Order for the refund of tax and / or penalty 
penalty , under the Goa , Daman and under tho Goa , Daman and Diu under the Goa, Dunan and Diu 
Diu Sales Tax Act , 1964 Sales Tax Act , 1964 

Salos Tax Act , 1964. 
Refund payablo to . . . . . . 

Treasury /Sub - Treasury 

Treasury /Sub - Troasury 
Registration Certificate No. . . . . . . . . . issuod Payable at the State Bank of India Payable at the State Bank of India 
by Sales Tax Office , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward . 

Reserve Bank of India 

Rosorve Bank of India 
Date of Order directing refund . . . . . . . . . . . . 

within one month of the dato of issue. within one month of tho date of issue . 


To, 


To , 


Amount of refund : ( ) Rs.. . . . . 
Number in collection registor showing the 

collection of amount regarding which re 

fund is mado . . . , 
( Signed ) . 
Designation . . . . 


Dato . . 


Signature of the recipient of the voucher 


Tho Treasury /Sub - Treasury Officer, . . . Tho Troasury / Sub - Treasury Officer, . . . . 
Stato 

State 
The Agontor Manager 0 Racervo 
tale The Agent or Manager of 

Roserve 
Bank of India 

Bank of India 
Bank of India 

Bank of India 
1 . Cortifiod that with reference to the 1 . Certifiod that with reference to the 
assessment record of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . assessment record of, . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . ., bearing Registra 

.. . . . . . .. . boaring Registra 
tion Cortificato No . . . . . . . . . . / issued by tion Certificato No . . . . . . . . . . (issued by 
the Sales Tax Office of . . . . . . . 

tho salos Tax Office of . . . . . . . . . . 
Ward ), for the period from . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward ), for the period from . . . . 
to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a rr fund of Rs. . . . . . 

to . . . . . . . . . , a rofund of Rs. . . . . . 
is due to . . . . . 

is due to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Certified that tho amount oftax and /or 2 . Certified that the amount of tax and / or 

penalty concerning which this refund penalty concerning which this refund 
is allowed has boon duly credited to is allowed has been duly credited to 
tho Government Trçasury . 

the Government Treasury . 


Troasury / Sub 
Date of oncashment in the Stato Bank of 


Roservo Bank 


Troasury 


India 


of India 


. . . . . , 


TICO . IN 


Date . 
(a ) Classification : 

Tax . 


3 . Certified that no refund ordor regard - 3 . Cortifled that no refund order regard 

ing the sum now in quostion has pre ing the sum now in quostion has pre 

viously boon granted and this ordor of viously been grantod and this order of 
Place . . . . . . . . rofund has boon entered in the original refund has been entered in the original 

file of assossment under my signature . file of assossmont under my signature . 
Rs, Paise 4 . Please pay to . . . . . 

4 . Please pay to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . , the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . 
(in figuros) 

(in figuros ) 
Rupees . . . . . 

Rupoos . . . . . . . . . 
(in words) 

( in words) 
Date . . . . . . . . . . 

Dato . . . . . . ..... 


Penalty . . . . . . . 


( Sigaed ) . . . . 

(Signed ). 
Dosignation . 

Designation . . . . . .. . 
Treasury/ Sub 

Troasury /Sub 
Date of encashment in the State Bank of Date of oncashment in tho State Bank of 
Roservo Bank 

Rosorve Bank 
Troasury 

Treasury 
India 

India 
of India 

of India 
Dato . . . . . . . . . . 

Place . . . . . 

Dato . . . . . . . . . . . . Placo . . . . . . . . 
Pay Rupcos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . only. Pay Rupcos . . 

. . . . . . . . only 
Tho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 . , . . 

Tho . , . , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 . . . . . . 
Treasury 

Treasury 
Officer- incharge of 

Officer-in -cbarge of - 
the Bank s 

the Bank s 
Sub-Troasury 

Sub -Treasury 
branch 

branch 
Received paymont . 

Received payment . 
Clainant s Signaturo . , 

Claimant s Signature . . . . . 
Examined , 

Examined , 
Accountant 

Accountant 
(a ) Classification : 

( a ) Classification : 
Rs Paise 

R9. Paise 
Tax . . . . . . . . 

Tax . . . . . . . . . . 
Penalty . . . . . . . 

Ponalty . . . 


PART III -- Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


143 


. . . 


. . 


. .I 


I 


I . 


+ 


FORM $. T. XVIII 

Refund Adjustment Order 
( See rule 28 of the Goa Duman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 

1964 ) 
Book No.. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . Refunds 
Vouchor No. . . . 


To , 


(2 ) A penalty of Rs. . . . . . . 

. . , has boon 
imposed on your petitioner, 
(3 ) Your petitioner s gross turnover and taxablo turnover, 

according to the provisions of tho Act, of the business 
place montioned above for the period montioned 
abovo amounted to Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .and Rs. . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . respoctively , 
(4 ) Such turnover was actually reccived /receivable during 

the said perid and your petitionor had no othor 

sale proceeds during the said period . 
( 5) Your petitionor hay submitted proper return of his turn 

over to the office of . . . . . . 
under section 15 of the Act and has coinplied with 
all tho terms of tho notice of assessmetit served on 
him by the . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . .under 


1. Certified with reforence to the assessment records of the 
dealor (namo) . . . 
bearing registration certificate number . . . . . ... . . . . . of . . . . . . . 
ward for the period from . 

. . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
that a refund of Rs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (in figures) Rupeos . . . . . . . . 

.. . . . (in words) 
is due to (name). . . . . . . . . . . . . 


2 . Certified that the tax concerning which this refund is allow 
ed has been credited into the broasury . 

3 . Certifiod that no sofund order regarding the sum in ques 
tion has proviously been granted and this order of refund has 
been entored tin the original file of assessment under my sig 
naturo . 

4 . This refund will be adjusted towards the amount of sales 
tax duo from tho said doalor for the poriod from . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . 
any subsequent poriod . 

5 . The dealer shall attach this order to tho return to be fur 
nished by him for the month quarter /year against which the ad 
justment is desired . 
( Seal of Assessing Authority ) 

Signature . . . . . . . . 
Dated . . ..... . . . . 

Designation . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . 


or 


(6 ) Your petitioner was proventod by sufficient cause from 

making the return required by section 15 or did not 
receivo the notice issued under section 17 or had not 
reasonable opportunity to comply of was prevented 
by suficient cause from complying with terms of the 
notice or from producing evidence us more particularly 
specified in the statement of grounds of appeal hereto 

attached . 
( 7 ) Your petitioner did not conceal the particulars of his 

gross and taxable turnover or deliberately furnish 
inaccurato particulars thereof, but as will be scen 
from the statemont of grounds of appeul attached , 
returned it at its real amount to the best of his knowledge 

and belief . 
( 8 ) Your petitioner, therefore , prays that he may be asses 

sed accordingly or that he may be declared not to 
bo chargeable under the Act or that the assessinent 
may be cancelled and / or remanded for reassessment 
or that the order imposing a penalty upon your peti 

tioner may be set aside. 
(9 ) A cortilled copy of the order appealed against is atta 
ched . 

GROUNDS OF APPEAL 
(Enter here a concise statemont of the reasons on which you 
rely for the purpose of this appeal) 


Place . . . . ... . ..... 


FORM S . T . XIX 
Appeal against an order of assessment and / or penalty under 
section 17 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 . 
( See rulo 33 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales 
tax Rules , 1964). 

Datod the . . . . . . . . . 


1 , 


Tho . . . . . . . . 


the petitioner named in the above petition , do hercby declare 
that what is stated herein is true to the best of my information 
and belief and that the tax admitted by me to be due in respect 
of tho order of assessment appealed against has been paid 
by treasury chalan No . . . . . . . . . 
dated . . . . . . . 

Signature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Designation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( To be signed by the appellant or by an agent duly 

authorised in writing in this behalf by the appellant ) . 
Note : - Strike out phrases or paragraph not applicable , 


(1) Registration No . .. 
(it) Name of the douler . . .. 
( IN ) Status . . . . 

(write here individual, Hindu undivided family , firm , 
limited company, association of persons, etc ., as the 

case may be ) . 
( iv) Stilo of business . . . .. 
(v ) Location of business . 
(vi) Address to which communication should ordinarily bc 

despatched . . . 
( vi ) Namo of officer who passed the order . . . . . . 


FORM S . T . XX 

Notice of Re-Assessment 
( See rule 42 of Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 

1964 ) 

Sales Tax Offios , 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ward . 
No . . . . . . . 

Dated the , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 , . . . 
To 


( VIII) Designation . . . . . . . . 
( ix ) Period to which the appeal relates . .. 


( x) Date of ordor . . 
(XI) Date of service of notice. . 
(xii ) Aimount of demand . . . . 


Tax . . . 


Penalty 

Total 
(xlll ) Amount paid . 

Tax . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Whereas in consequence of definite information in my 
possession , I have rcasons to believe that the turnover of 
your business assessable to sales tax for the year ending 
the 31st March 19 , . . . has 
been under assessed . 
escaped levy of the appropriate fee. 

I, therefore propose to re -assess the said tunover that 
has been under assessed . 
escaped levy of the appropriate fee. 

I hereby require you to show cause within . . . . . . . 


. . . . 


. . . . . 


. . . 


. . 


. ILI . 


. . 


. . . 


. . 


. 


. . 


IL 


Total 
(xiv) Amount in dispute . . . , 
( xv ) Amount of fee paid . 

The petition of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
8 /o . . 
bohalf of the dealer whose particulars have been mentioned above , 
showcth as follows : 
(1 ) Under tho Goa , Daman and Diu (Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 

your petitioner has been assessed on a total taxable 
turnover of Rs. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . for 
the period montioned above . 


templated actios should not be taken in your case . 
templated actions should not be taken in your cuse .* 

Assessing authority 
(Seal of Assessing 
Authority ) . 

... Ward 
Naic and address of the person to whom notice is issued 
with nature of his business togethor with his registered num 


ber . 


144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[PART III - SEC , 3 


FORM S . T . XXI 

Notice of tax demanded on re-assessment 
( See rulo 43 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 

1964) 

Sales Tax Office, 

. . . . . . . . .. Ward 
Dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . . 
To , 


. . 


. II . . 


. 


. . 


. 


NO . 


(a ). . . . . . . . . . . . 
FORM S . T . XXIII 

Declaration 
( See rule 58 of the Gon , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 

1964 ) 

imported into the Territory 
In respect of goods being — 

exported out of the Territory 
1. (a ) Name and complete address 

of the consignol . . . . . . . . . 
(6 ) Registration number of 

the consignor . . . . . . . . . . . 
2. (u ) Name and complete address 

of the consignee . . . . . . . . 
(6 ) Registration number of 

the consignoo . . . . . . . 
3. Place from which goods dispatched .. .. 
4 . Destination . . . 
5 . Description of goods . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 


Rs. . . . . . 


Rs. 


You are hereby informed that on rc - assessment of your turn 
over for tho year . . . . . 

. . . , . . . your taxable tu - 
over has beco assessed to sales tax , penalty etc ., as under : 
A . Taxation turnover detorminod Rs. 
B . (1 ) Tax assessed 

Rs. 
(2) Penalty imposed 
Total B (1) and B (2 ) 

Rs, . . . . . . . . 
Loss amount alroady paid 
Net amount duo 

Rs. 
You are hereby directed to pay a sum of Rs... . . 
(in figures) Rupees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( in words). . . . . . 

treasury 
into the sub -treasury 

Reserve Bank of India or 

Stato Bank of India 
at ( place ) . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . on or before (date ) . . . . . . . . 
and furnish the recoipt in proof of payment to this office on or 
beforo (date ) . . . . 

. . . . . . . . failing which 
the said sum will be recoverable from you as an artear of land 
revenue. 

2 . Tho chalan in form S. T . XV is enclosed for the purpose . 


6 . Quantity /weight . . . . . . . . . . 
7 . Valuo of goods. . . . . . .. 
8 . Consignor s invoice No. & date . . 
9 . Mode of transport .. . 
10 . Name and full address of the carrier 

( Transport Co ., owner of the vohiclo etc .) 


11. Railway Receipt/ Bill of landing no . . . . . . . . . 


Assessing Authority, 

. . . . . . . . . Ward 


(Scal of Assessing Authority ) 


. . . . . . . . . deciare that 
to Ythe best of iny knowledge and belief , the above statemonts 
are true and correct . 
Date , . . . . . . . 

( Signature of the consignor 

of his authorised agent) 
12. In the case of transport by road , following details should 

be furnished by the Transport Co. 
(a ) Details of the vehicle 

with its number, il auy . . . 
(6 ) Namç and address of tho 

driver of the vehicle . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(c ) Namo and full address of 

the person ( if any ) in 
charge of the goods. . . 

. . ... . . . . being 
the . . . . 

. declare that 
to the best of my knowledge and belief tho above statemonts 
are truo apd correct. 


FORM S. T. XXII 
Summon to appear in person and/or to produce documents 
( See rulo 44 of the Goa , Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules , 

1964 ) 
To , 


Whereas your attendance is necossary to give 


evidence 


( Signature or thumb impression 
of the driver or the porson 

in charge of goods) . 
(Here enter the status off the person signing the declaration 
8 . g ., consignor person in charge of the goods being the agent 
of the consignco, driver of the vehicle , etc.) 


Whereas the following documents are required 
with reference to an coquiry under the Goa , Daman and Diu 
( Sales Tax ) Act, 1964 , regarding the casc concerning " . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
of . , , , . . . . 

. . . . . . . . .now pending before me, you 

appear in person 
are hereby summoned to produce , or causo to be produced , the 

before me on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day 
said document(s) 
of . 

... . ... . . . . at (timo) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A . M / P . M . 
at (place) . . . 

mm . . . . . . and not to depart 
until permitted by mo. 

2 . Failurc , without" lawful excuse , to appear and give ovi 
dence or causo to be produced the documents as the case may 
be , is punishable under the provisions of Order XVI. Rulo 12 
Civil Procedure , Code, 1908. 

Given under my hand and seal, this . ... ... 
day of. . . . . . . 

Signature . . . . . 

Assessing Authority 
(Seal of Assessing 
Authority ) 

. .Ward 
Datod . . . . 


( To be completed in the Office of Check - Post) 
Name of the Check - Post . . . . 
Date and time of arrival of the vehiclo carrying tho goods at 
the Check -Post . . . . . . 
Certificd that I have checked the goods above mentioned . 

Officer-in -charge of the Check - Post 


Note.-- To be Alled in triplicate , 


licate . " 


NOTE , – In case the summon is jnerely for production of a docu 

ment, it will be proper compliance with it if the docu 

ment is sent per registered post. 
* Name, parentage and address of the person to whom 

the suminon is issued . 
+ These words should bo scored out where the summon 

is for the production of documents only , 


THIRD SCHEDULE 
(Rules for supply of copies of records under rule 62 ) 
Certified copies of 
documents and orders 

1. Any person who is a party to a proceeding under tho 
Act or under these rules may apply to the appropriate autho 
rity having jurisdiction in respect of such proceeding or hav 
ing the custody of the records pertaining thereto , for a 
certified copy of a document produced or filed in such 
proceeding or of an order passed by such authority , 


PART III — SEC . 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


145 


- - - - - 


- 


2 . A separate application shall he made for copies of 
any number of papers available in the record of each year 
and it shall be accompanied by an initial fee of fifty 
paise in Court-foc stamp . 

3. The clerk shall immediately , on receipt of an applica 
tion make entries in the register maintained in Form S . T . 2 
and issue a receipt in token of having received the applica 
tion , in Form S . T . 1 . Thereafter the said clerk shall pass 
on the same application to the ollicer concerned latest by 
the next working day, and shall without undue delay obtain 
orders of the Assessing Authority or the notified authority , 
as the case may be, as to whether or not the copy is to be 
allowed, and if the copy is allowed, the clerk entrusted 
with the copying work shall obtain the record together with 
the application and without undue delay shall notify the 
required fee on the notice board of the office in case 
the application has been allowed or so notify the fact of 
rejection in case the application has been rejected . 

4 . In case of application having been allowed , the appli 
cant shall make good the deficiency in the court fee 
stamps required , within a period of 7 days after the date 
on which the fee is notified under rule 3 , failing which the 
application shall he filed and the records returned to the 
office. The applicant shall file a fresh application for 
obtaining copies , 

5 . After the requisite fee has been paid , copies shall be 
prepared by the copying clerk entrusted with the same 
work , 

6 . Every copy is ordinarily expected to be ready on the 
seventh working day after the fees have been paid . 

7 . Every copy made under this rule shall be written in 
good legible hand or typed . 

8 . To every copy made under these rules , shall be pre 
fixed a heading containing short description of the record 
and the namc of the dealer. In the copy of judgements 
or orders such heading shall also contain the following 
particulars : 
( a ) name of the Assessing Authority or the Officer 

who passed the order together with the ward to 
which the file pertains and the year of assess 
ment, if any . In case of appeals and revisions 
the name and official designation of the officer , 
whose order was appealed from , the date of that 

order , and 
( b ) the name and address of the dealer . 
9 . After the copy has been made and before it has been 
revisod and attested , the following particulars shall be 
endorsed thereon : 
(a ) Number of the application in register maintained 

in Form S . T . 2 . 
(b ) Date of prescntation of the application, 
( c ) Name of the copying clerk , 
( d ) Date on which the copy was completed , 
( e ) Cost of the copy , 

( f ) Date of delivery . 
10 . No copy shall be delivered to any person until it 
has been examined , certified and stamped . The examiner 
shall sce that the provisions of law and of these rules have 
been complied with in all respects . 


11. The examiner, bofore he attests any copy , shall - - 
( a ) personally compare such copy with the original 

from which it has been prepared with the assis 

tance of the copying clerk , who made the copy ; 
( b ) examine and initial the endorsement made upon 

the copy; 
( c ) attest every alteration made in such copy by ini 

tialling the same. 
12 . When any copy is found to be correct in all respects 
and ready for delivery to the applicant, the examiner shall 
endorse the con " Certified to be true copy " and shall sign 
and date the endorsement. 

13. In the event of any copy being found to be unfit 
for issue by reason that it 

(a ) has not been legibly and neatly written or typed, 
( b ) does not conform to these rules, or 
( c ) is defective or otherwise open to objection , the 

examiner shall forthwith write the word " Cancel 
lcd " across the copy ; and a fresh copy shall be 

made without further charge. 
14 , The affixing, by the examiner of his signature to a 
copy is a certificate that the copy has been personally com 
pared by him and is suitable for delivery . 
15 . The copying clerk shall ensurc 

( a ) that no filc is taken out of the copying room ; 
(b ) that all files are locked up in an almirah with the 

key in his possession , before leaving office ; 
(c ) that no member of the public is allowed access to 

the copying room except for presenting the appli 

cations for supply of copies. 
16 . After the copies are ready, the fact shall be imme 
diately notified by the copying clerk on the notice board . 

17 . If an applicant fails to take delivery of the copy for 
full four months from the last date of the month in which 
the copy was notified to be ready for delivery , it shall be 
filed , 

18 . An applicant for an urgent copy shall be entitled to 
have his copy furnished to him , if possible , by the 3rd 
working day after the fees have been paid . 

19 . Urgent applications shall have as far as possible 
priority among themselves according to the date and scrial 
No. of each application . 

20 . The examiner shall keep movement of each file in a 
register maintained in Form S . T . 3 . 

21. Applications for copies shall be kept hy the copying 
clerk for 3 years or till such time as the stamp auditor has 
Audited the necessary accounts , 
Form S. T . 1. 

Form S. T. 1. 
Receipt No . . . . 

. . . Recçipt No.. . . 
Received on this date from ... . . . . Received on this date from . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . 
an application dated . . . . . . . . . . lan application dated . . . . . . 
for copics with court fec stamps for copies with court fee 
worth Rs. . . . 

stamp (s) worth Rs ... . . . 
affixed to it., which has been affixed to it, which has been 
entered at serialNo. 

ontcred at sorall No. . . . . . . 
in register S . T . 2 . 

in register S . T . 2 , 
Office of.... .. . . . . . . . . . 

Office of... . . . . . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 
Signature of 

Signature of 
recipient..... . . . . . . . . . . . . recipicot,., . , . , . , . , . 


Date . . . . . . . 


FORM S . T. 2 
Register of applicants for copies and fees realised 


Dute 


Sl.No.of Application. 


Nimaand addressofthe 

applicant 


Nainsofthe officetowhich: thefilepertains! 


Natureofthe 

case 


aCopiasrequired 


Whetherurgant! 

orordinarry 


FeeAlready 

affixed 


Words 


Language 


Copyingfee 


Hop 
juosia 


-Fesreceiv.uat 

tersige 


-Dateonwhich 
thecopywas 

ready 


kdo 


Thedateof 
ūdeliveryofthe 


InitialsofCopy 


ingClerk 


w 


9 


10 


10 


11 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- --- ... 


FORM S . T . 3 

Movement register of Ales to and from Copying Clerk 
- - - - -- ---- - - - - 

SI. No. of the 

application 
Si. Namo of the dealer 

in respect Date of From which 
of which receipt office 

the file of the filo received 
was requi 
sitioned 


Romarks 


No. 


Date when 
the file was 
returnod 


Signaturo 

of the 
Recipiont 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


(PART III — SEC . 3 


- - - 


- 


- 


( ii ) on payments for admission exceeding 100 naye 

paise, but not exceeding 200 naye paise – 25 % 

of the total amount paid . 
( iii ) on payments for admission exceeding 200 naye 

paise - 30 % of the total amount paid . 
( b ) Where the entertainment is derived from a game or 
sport, entertainment tax shall be paid as aforesaid at the 
following rates, namely : -- 

( i) on payments for admission not exceeding 100 

naye paise - -nil . 
( ii ) on payments for admission exceeding 100 naye 

paise , but not exceeding 200 naye paise 10 % 

of the total amount paid . 
( iii ) on payments for admission exceeding 200 naye 

paise - 15 % of the total amount paid , 


( 2 ) In computing the tax payable under sub - section ( 1 ) , 
the tax leviable shall be computed with reference to each 
single person admitted and shall, wherever , necessary , be 
rounded off to the nearest naye paisa , fractions of half - a 
naya paisa and over being counted as one , and less than 
half - a -naya paisa heing disregarded , 


Law Department 

Panjim , 8th April 1964 
The following Act passed by the Legislative Assembly 
of Goa , Daman and Diu , received the assent of the Presi 
dent of India on the 7th April 1964 and is published for 
general information , 
THE GOA , DAMAN AND DIU ENTERTAINMENT 

TAX ACT, 1964 

(No. 2 of 1964 ) 
An Act to consolidate and amend the law for imposing 
& tax in respect of admission to entertainments in the Union 
Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu and for certain matters 
connected therewith . 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, Dama 
and Diu in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 

1 . Short title , extent and commencement. - ( 1 ) This 
Act may be called the Goa , Daman and Diu Entertain 
ment Tax Act, 1964 . 

( 2 ) It extends to the whole of the Union Territory of 
Goa , Daman and Diu . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on the 1st day of April 
1964 . 

2 . Definitions. In this Act, unless there is anything 
repugnant in the subject or context 
( a ) " admission to any entertainment " includes admis 

sion to any place in which the entertainment is 

held ; 
( b ) " Commissioner " means a person appointed hy 

Government as Commissioner for the purpose of 

this Act; 
( c ) " complimentary ticket” means a ticket or pass 

for admission to any entertainment free of any 
payment or at a reduced rate of payment for such 

admission ; 
( d ) " entertainment" includes any exhibition , per 

formance , amusemennt, game or sport to which 

persons are admitted for payment; 
( e ) " Government" mcans the Government of the 

Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu ; 
(f ) " payment for admission " includes — 
( i) any payment for seats or other accommo 

dation in a place of entertainment , 
( ii ) any payment made for the loan or use of 

any instrument or contrivance which enables 
a person to get a normal or better view 
or hearing of the entertainment which , with 
out the aid of such instrument or contri 

vance such person would not get ; and 
( iii ) any payment for any purposc whatsoever 

connected with an catertainment or for a 
programme of synopsis thereof which a 
person is required to make as a condition 
of attending or continuing to attend the 
entertainment in addition to the payment, if 
any, for admission to the entertainment, 
any payment made by a person who, having 
been admitted to one part of a place of 
entertainment, is subsequently admitted to 
another part thereof for admission to which 
a payment involving tax or more tax is 

required ; 
( g ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules mado 

under this Act ; 


( 3 ) Where the payment for admission to any entertain 
ment is made by means of a lump sum paid as a subscrip 
tion or contribution to any society , or for a season ticket 
or for the right of admission to a series of entertainments 
or to any entertainment during a certain period of time, 
or for any privilege, right, facility or thing combined with 
the right of admission to any entertainment or involving 
such right of admission without further payment or at a 
reduced charge , the entertainment tax shall be paid op the 
amount of the lump sum ; but where the Commissioner is of 
opinion that the payment of a lump sum or any payment 
for a ticket represents payment for other privileges, rights 
or purposes besides the admission to an entertainment, or 
covers admission to an entertainment during any period 
for which the tax has not been in operation , the tax shall 
he charged on such amount as appears to the Commis 
sioner to represent the right of admission to entertainment 
in respect of which thc entertainment tax is pavable . 

( 4 ) There shall be levied and paid to the Government 
on every complimentary ticket issued by the proprietor the 
entertainment tax at the appropriate rate prescrihed under 
sub -section ( 1 ) , as if full payment had been made for ad 
mission to the cntertainment according to the class of set or 
accommodation which the holder of such ticket is entitled to 
occupy or use and the holder of such ticket shall be deem 
ed to have beco admitted for payment for the purpose of 
this Act . 

4 . Mode of levy .- ( 1 ) Save as otherwise provided by 
this Act, no person other than a person who has to per 
form soms duty in connection with an entertainment or a 
duty imposed upon him by any law , shall be admitted to 
any entertainment, except with a ticket stamped with an 
impressed , embossed , engraved or adhesivc stamp (not 
used before ) issued by the Government for the purposes 
of revenue und denoting that the proper ontertainment tax 
has been paid . 

( 2 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub -section 
( 1 ) , the Government may, on the application of a proprie 
tor of any entertainment in respect of which entertainment 
tax is payable under section 3 , allowed the proprietor on 
such conditions as may be prescribed , to make payment of 
the tax due 
( a ) hy a consolidated payment of a percentage , to 

be fixed by the Government , of the gross sum 
received hy the proprietor on account of payment 
for admission to the entertainment and on account 

of the tax ; 
(b ) on the basis of the returns of payments for admis 

sion to the entertainment and on account of the 

tax ; 
( c ) in accordance with the results recorded hy any 

mechanical contrivance which automatically 

registers the number of persons admitted . 
5 . Exemptions. — ( 1 ) Entertainment tax shall not be 
levied on payments for admission to any entertainment 
where the Commissioner is satisfied that, 
( a ) the whole of the takines thereof are devoted to 

philanthropic or charitable purposes ; or 
(b ) the cntertainment is of an educational or scienti 

fic character ; or 
( c ) the entertainment is provided by a drama or other 

theatrical performance , 


( iv ) 


(h ) " proprietor" in relation to any entertainment 

includes any person responsible for , or for the 
time being in charge of, the management there 
of. 


3 , Levy of Tax . - ( 1 ) (a ) There shall be levied and paid 
to the Government on all payments for admission to any 
entertainment, other than a game or sport, a tax (herein 
after referred to as entertainment tax ) at the following 
rates , namely - - 


( i) on payments for admission not excocding 100 

nayo paisenil, 


= 


= 


- - - - 


( e ) 


PART III - SEÇ . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887 ) 

147 
- - = = - -- - - 

- = 

- = - = 
( 2 ) The Government may exempt from entertainment 13 . Prohibition of levy by local authorities.- ( 1 ) Not 
tax any ticket or complimentary ticket issued to a persuni withstanding anything contained in any law relating to a 
in uniform serving in the defence forces of India , subject municipality , local bourd , village panchayat or other local 
to such conditions as may be prescribed 

authority , no municipality , local board , village panchayat 
( 3 ) The Government may , by general or special order 

or other local authority shall levy any tax on entertain 

ment in respect of which entertainment lax is leviable under 
excmpt any entertaiment or class of entertainments from 
liability to entertainment tax in whole or in part. 

this Act. 
Explanation . — For the purposes of sub -section ( 1 ) the 

( 2 ) Nothing contained in sub -section ( 1 ) shall affect 
takings of an entertaiınient shall not be deemed to be 

the levy by any local authority referred to therein , of a 
devoted to philanthropic or charitable purposes if such 

tax at a flat rate per clocina show or performance on 
takings are to be devoted to the benefit of any parţicular 

cinema shows or performances in accordance with the law 
religious purpose or any particular caste or communiiy enabling the imposition of such a tax . 
other than any class of citizens declared by the Govern 

14 . Power to muke rules.- ( 1) The Government may 
ment as socially or educationally backward . 

by notification in the Official Gazette makc rules generally 
6 . Power 10 inspect.- ( 1 ) The Conimissioner or any 

to carry out the purposes of this Act. 
Officer of Government duly authorised in writing by hin 
in this behalf , may enter any place of cotertaininent while 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudicc to the generality 
the entertainment is proceeding , and any place ordinarily of the foregoing power , such rules may provide for, - - 
used as a place of entertainment, at any reasonable tine 

( a ) securing the payment of entertainment tax ; 
with a vicy to inspect whether the provisions of this Act 
of the rules made thercunder are being complied with , 

(b ) the supply accounting and use of stamps or 

stamped tickets , for the stamping or tickets and 
( 2 ) The proprictor of every entertainment and the 

for securing the defacement of stamps when 
owner or person in charge of any place which is ordinarily 

used ; 
used as a place of entertainment shall give every reason 
able assistance to the inspecting officer in the pertorinance 

( c ) the renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps and 
of his duties under sub - section ( 1 ) . 

for the procedure to be followed on applications 

for refund on such stamps ; 
( 3 ) If any person prevents or obstructs the cntry of the 
inspecting officer , he shall, in addition to any other punish 

( d ) the use of tickets covering the admission of more 
ment to which he may be liable under any law for the timc 

than one person and the calculation of tax there 
being in force, be punished with finc which may extend to 

on ; 
tive hundred rupees on conviction before a Magistrate . 

the calculation of the tax on the transfer of seat 
7 , Recoveries. - ( 1 ) Any sum due on account of enter 

or accommodation from one part of a place of 
tainment lax shall be recoverable as an arrear of land 

entertalnment to another and on payroont for 
revenue under the law for the time being in force . 

seats or other accommodation ; 
8. Penalty . - ( 1 ) If any person is admitted to any place 

( f ) controlling the use of mechanical contrivances 
of cntcrtainment and the provisions of section 4 are not 

(including the prevention of its misuse ); 
complied with , the proprictor of the entertainment to which 

the checking of admissions, the kecping of 
such person is admitted shall , on conviction before a 

accounts and the furnishing of returns by the 
Magistrate , be liable , in respect of each offence, to a fine 

proprictors of entertainments in respect of which 
which may cxtend to rupees five hundred and shall also be 

the tax duc is payable in accordance with the 
liable to pay any tax which should have been paid . 

provisions of section 4 , sub -section (2 ) ; 
( 2 ) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions 

( h ) requiring proprietors referred to in clause ( 8 ) 
of this Act for which no other punishment has been pro 

to furnish security for payment of tax and pres 
vided for in this Act, shall, on conviction before a Magis 

cribing conditions for forfeiture of such security ; 
tratc , be liable to a fine which may extend to five hundred 
rupees . 

( i) the presentation and disposal of applications for 

exemption from payment of the entertainment 
9 . Compounding of offences. The Commissioner or any 

tax or for the refund thereof; and 
other officer duly authorised by him in this behalf may 
recover from any person who has committed or is reason 

the exemption from entertainment tax or from 
ably suspected of baving committed an offence against this 

any part thereof in respect of soldiers , sailors or 
Act or the rules made thereunder , by way of composition 

other defence forces in uniform ; 
of such offence 

( k ) the issue of passes by a proprietor of a place of 
(a ) where the offence consists of the failure to pay , 

entertainment for the admission to the place of 
or the evasion of , any tax payable under this 

entertainment, of persons who have to perform 
Aci, in addition to the tax so payable , a sum 

any duty in connection with the entertainment or 
of moncy not exceeding two hundred rupees or 

any other duty imposed upon them by law ; 
double the amount of the tax payable , whichever 

( i) any other matter which are required to be pres 
is greater ; and 

cribed by this Act . 
( b ) in other cases , a sum of money not exceeding 
two hundred rupees , 

( 3 ) If any person acts in contravention of, or fails to 

comply with any such rules , he shall , on conviction by a 
10 . Delegation of powers. - ( 1 ) The Government may , Magistrate be liable to fine which may extend to five 
by notification in the Official Gazette , delegate to the hundred rupees . 
Commissioner or to any other officer all or any of its powers 
under this Act. 

(4 ) Such rules shall be placed on the table of the 
( 2 ) The Commissioner may , with the approval of the 

Legislative Assembly , Goa , Daman and Diu for a period 
Government , delegate to any officer subordinate to him , 

of 14 days and shall be subject to such modifications as 
any of his powers under this Act other than powers dele 

may be made therein by the Assembly and shall thereupon 
gated to him by the Government. 

be published in the Oficial Gazette , 
11. Protection of action and bar of limitation . ( 1 ) No 15 . Repeal and Suvings. - ( 1 ) On the commencement of 
suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against this Act, any law in force in the Union Territory of Goa , 
any officer or employee of the Government for anything 

Daman and Diu , authorising the levy of a stamp duty on 
donc or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any tickets of admission to any entertainment and any other 
rule or order made thereunder. 

law corresponding to this Act shall stand repealed . 
( 2 ) No suit , prosccution or other legal proceeding shall ( 2 ) The provisions of section 6 of the General Clauses 
be instituted against the Government or against any officer Act, 1897 shall apply to such repenil as if such law is an 
or employee of the Government after six months from the enactment and this Act is a re - enactment thereof. 
date of the commission of the act complained of . 
12. Cognizable Offcmc. - Notwithstanding anything con 

16 . Power to remove difficulties . If any difliculty arises 
tained in the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 , buţ sub 

in giving effect to the provisions of this Act the Govern 
ject to the other provisions of this Act, 

ment may , by order , as occasion requires , do anything (not 

inconsistent with this Act ) which appears to it to be 
( 1 ) an offence under this Act shall be a cognizable 

necessary for removing the difficulty , 
offence under the said Code; and 
( 2 ) only Magistrates of the First Class shall have 

S . BALAKRISHNAN 
jurisdiction to try any such offence . 

Law Secretary 


( 1 ) 


148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) (PART III - SEC. 3 
- - = = - = 

-- 

+ 3 = = - - - - - - - - — — - — _ - - - _ = - - - :_ - . - = - 

( d ) Date of purchase of stamps . 
Finance Department 

( e ) The place and the authority from whom the 
Panjim , the 11th September 1965 

stamps were purchased . 
No , I s / F .111/ 2 -41 / 774 / 64 / 65 — 10 exercise of the 

( f ) Manner in which thc stamps were spoiled or 
powers conferred by section 14 ( 1 ) of the Goa , Daman and 

rendered unfit for use . 
Diu Entertainment ( ax Act, 1904, the Government hereby 

( g ) Whether the application is for refund or renewal. 
makes the following rules . 

(h ) Date of appiication . 
THE GOA , DAMAN AND DIU ENTERTAINMENT ( 3 ) After the receipt of the application the clerk con 
TAX KULES, 1965 

cerned shall examine the saine in order to see that , 

(a ) It contains the requisite information . 
PRELIMINARY 

( b ) The stamps tendered are genuine . 
1 . Short title. These rules may be called the Goa , After carefully examining the grounds of the application 
Daman and Diu Entertainment Tax Rules, 1965. 

and all relevant papers, the cierk shall record a note 
2 . Definitions. In these rules -- 

whether he considers the claim to be admissible or not 

and shall submit the same to the oflicer concerned who aller 
(i) ( Act ) means the Goa , Daman and Diu Enter 

the necessary check will submit the same with his report 
taininent Tax Act , 1964 , 

to the Commissioner for his decision . 
( i ) ( Prescribed Officer ) means the person or autho 

A proper register shall be maintained in the office of 
nty 10 whom any powers are delegated under 

the Commissioner in respect of rcfuod of value of unused 
soction ( 10 ) of the Act. 

stampy and renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps , in 
( iii) ( Stamp) means an Entertainment Duty Stamp 

Form ( 1 ) . 
issued by the Government of Goa , Daman and 
Diu under sub -section ( 1 ) of section ( 4 ) of the 

9 . Price of admission , date and show to be shown on , 
Act . 

and stump affixed to , ticket. - Except as provided in rules 

17 and 26 , every ticket issued on payment for admission 
( iv ) ( Section ) means section of the Act. 

to entertainment sliall consist of three parts . One part 
PAYMENT OF TAX BY STAMPS 

shall remain on the ticket book and the remaining two 

parts shall be detached therefrom and issued to the pur 
3 . Supply of stamps and keeping of accounts .- The rules 

chaser . 
regarding the supply and keeping of accounts of non 
judicial and Courl fue stampy in respect of this Union Terri 

Each part of the ticket shall be clearly marked with : 
tory of Goa, Daman and Diu shall apply mutais mutandis 

(a ) the price of admission , the stamp duty if leviable 
to the supply and keeping of accounts of the entertainment 

thereon , and the total amount recoverable from 
stamps , 

the purchaser . 
4 . Purchase of stamps - - No person shall purchase any 

(b ) the date and show for which it is available . 
stamp required for the purposes of the Act except from 
the prescribed officer : 

( c ) the book number and the serial number of the 

ticket. 
Provided that , 

The taxable ticket shall also have a stamp of the value 
( i) nothing in this rule shall apply to any person of the tax payable securely aflixed to it in the manner 

purchasing such a stamp attıxod to a ticket for provided in Tule 13 . 
the purpose of admission to an entertainment, 

10 . Plurul tickets . — ( 1 ) Every taxable ticket, not being 
and 

a complimentary ticket, issued for the purpose of admitting 
where the proprietor of an entertainment changes 

more than one person to an entertainment shall have 
hands, it shall be lawful for the new proprietor , 

clearly shown thereon the number of persons to be adoiit 
after giving due notice to the prescribed officer 

ted and the date and show for which it is available and 
to purchase from the former proprietor the stock 

shall have affixed to it a stump or stamps equal in value 
of unused stamp in the latter s possession . 

to the total tax that would have been payable on tickets 
5 . Issue of stamps. - No stamp issued for the purposes of for admitting each such person separately . 
this Act shall be issued to any person by or on behalf of the ( 2 ) The stamp or stamps to be affixed to a ticket entilling 
proprietor of any entertainment otherwise than securely 

the purchaser to the exclusive use of a box or similar 
alfixed to a ticket issued for the purpose of authorising 

accommodation shall be of the valud of the tax that would 
admission to an entertainment. 

be payable upon a ticket of the same price admitting one 
6 . Refund of value of unused stamps. The proprietor person to the entertainment. 
of an entertainment on an application nade to the Com 
missioner within three months from the date of purchuse 

11 . Transfer of Seul, - When the purchaser of any ticket 
of stumps, may claim refund of the value of the unused 

admitting him to one part of an entertainment wishes to 
stamps tendered with the application , subject to a deduction 

transfer to another part of the entertainment for which the 

price of admission is higher and taxable , the proprietor 
of six naye paise for each rupee or portion of a rupee of 

shall issue him a second ticket stamped with a stamp of 
such valuo , 

the value of the difference between the tax leviable on the 
7 . Renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps, — Where any second ticket and that leviable on the first. In case no 
gtamps purchased for use under the Act have been damaged tax was levied on the first ticket on account of the price 
or spoiled, the purchaser may apply in writing to the Com of admission of the sume ticket being not subject to tax , 
missioner who on being satisfied that they have not been it will be calculated on the total amount of the price of 
wilſully damaged or spoiled may give in lieu thereof . admission recovered from the purchaser of both the tickets 
( a ) other stamps of the same denomination and value , 

and the same tax will be paid by affixing on the second 

ticket the stamps corresponding to the full value of tax 
or 

due . The purchaser shall retain the portion of the first 
( b ) stamps of any other denomination to the same 

ticket returned to hin under sub -rule 2 of rule 13 . 
value, or 
( c ) at his discretion , the same value in nioncy , deduc 

12 . Season tickets -- Every season ticket, or ticket avail 
ting six naye paise , for each rupee or fraction of 

able for more than one cntertainment, shall have marked 
a rupoe of such value . 

thereon the name of the purchaser and the period for 

which it is available and the stamp to be alixed to such 
8 . Procedure for the refund of value of unused stamps 

ticket shall be of the value of the tax that would be pay 
or renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps . - ( 1 ) An appli 
cation for refund under Rule 6 or for renewal under 

able upon a ticket of the same price admitting the pur 
Rule 7 shall be chargeable with a Court fçc of Rs. 1.25. 

chaser to one entertainment. 
( 2 ) Applications for grant of refund or renewal of 

13 . Defucernent and destruction of stamps and disposal 
stamps shall be made personally or through an agent 

of parts of rickct ( 1 ) The two parts of the ticket detach 
appointed by a duly attested power -of- attorncy to the Com 

ed under rule 9 shall be so detached that the stamp is 
missioner and shall furnish the following information : 

defaced thereby in such way that the portion of the 

stamp which bears the words (Goa , Daman and Diu ) 
( a ) Full name, surname ( if any ) and residence of shal remain on the ticket book , and the remaining por 

applicant; and the name of thc fimi, if any, on tion of the stamp shall remain on one of the parts of the 
whose behalf application is made. 

ticket issued to the purchaser. 
(b ) Description and the number of stamps with res ( 2 ) On admission of the purchaser or holder of a 
pective value, 

ticket, the proprietor shall cause one part of the ticket, 
( c ) Total value of the stamps, 

issued for admission to the entertainment (not being a 


. - 


. . 


" 


Part III SEC. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887 ) 149 
- - -- -- - - - - - - -- - - 

- -- - - - - - - 
scason ticket or a ticket available for more than one 20 . Admission hy nechanical contrivance , notice: - - 
entertainment ) , to be collcc cd , and the other part hearing Subject to the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 4 , 
one half of the stamp to be returned to the purchaser . no person shall in any circumstances be admitted through 

( 3 ) The purchaser or holder of a ticket shall retain his a mechanical contrivance save on payment of the price 
part of the ticket until he leaves the place of entertainment 

of admission . Such price shall be shown in & conspicuous 
and the proprietor shall retain the other part until 3 p .m ., position on or near the mechanical contrivance . 
of the day following the day of the entertainment . 

21 . Payments under seotion 4 ( 2 ) .- . - All payments made 
(4 ) The proprietos shall submit tbc counterfoils with in accordance with the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of 
the portion of the starnp bearing the words " Goa , Daman section 4 of the Act, shall be made to the prescribed offi 
and Dill " within ten days uíter the date of the chiertain cer within ten days of the date of the entertainment at 
ment along with the returns to be submitted under rule 15 , such time and place and in such manner as he shall 
in the office of the prescribed ullicer for checking and require . 
destruction by that officer thercaſter . 

22 . Payment of tur on programes or synopsis , — Wherc 
14 . Torni, etc , stamps -- - Save as otherwise provided in payment for a programme or synopsis is compulsory , the 
these rules , no ticket bearing i stanıp thui has been torri, tax shall be levied on the total sum paid for admission to 
defaced or otherwise marked or mutiluted shall be issued the entertainment including the sum paid for the pro 
by the proprietor of an cntertainment; and the proprietor grammc or synopsis , Where payment for a programme 
shall, within ten days after the date of the entertainment, or synopsis is voluntary , the tax shall be levied separately 
submit all such tickets along with counterſoils , submitted on the sum paid for admission and on the sum paid for 
under sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 13 to the prescribed officer . the programme or synopsis , 
15 . keturn of stunips. - - Every proprietor of an entertain 

MISCELLANEOUS 
ment shall, within ten days of tlie dalc of an callctiainncnt, 
submit to the prescribed officer a return in Form " A " show 

23 . Provision as to persons admitted to the entertain 
ing the number of stamps purchased and issued by him .. 

meni.- -- Every proprietor of an entertainment admitting a 

person free of payment or on payment of a reduced sum 
PAYMENT OF TAX OTHERWISE THAN BY STAMP 

shall issue to such person a ticket showing clearly there 
16 . Security . - ( 1 ) Every proprietor aliowed to avail him on the full charge for admission to the class to which 
self of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the person is admitted . The tax shall be paid on such 
the Act shalı furnish such security in the prescribed officer ticket in the same manner as if it were a ticket issued on 
as that officer may require . 

payrient of the full charge and the person admitted shall 
( 2 ) If a proprietor fails to submit any returns as requir for the purposcs of these rules be dcemed -to be the 
ed by rule 18 or rule 24 or to pay witbin ten days after purchaser of the ticket. 
the date of the entertainment, or such extended period not Provided that when a child not exceeding five years 
exceeding one month as the prescribed officer may allow , in age is admitted free of payment, he shall be exempted 
the entertainment tax under rule 21, the prescribed officer 

from the payment of the tax . 
inay , after giving the proprietor a week s notice , direct that 

24, Returns of complimentary tickets. Every propric 
the security shall be forfeited to the Goveniment : 

tor who is allowed to avail himself of the provisions of 
Provided that nothing in this rule shall affect the liabi sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Act and who issues 
lity of the proprietor for the payment of the full entertain complimentary tickets shall submit to the prescribed ofh 
ment tax, 

cer in his office , within ten days of the date of the per 
( 3 ) The proprietor may, within fifleen days of the date 

formance of the entertainment, a return of such tickets 
of the order of the prescribed oilicer forfciting bis security 

in Form " E " showing the rate of cach class , the number 

of complimentary tickets issued for each class , the serial 
under this rule , appeal to the Comniissioner concerned . 

numbers of tickets issued and the amount of tax - payable 
17 . Unstamped tickets issued under section 4 ( 2 ( a ) anul to the Government. 
( b ) .- - - ( 1 ) Every ticket, not being a complimentary ticket, 
issued by a proprietor who has been allowed to pay the tax 

25 . Exemptions under section 5 ( 1 ),-- Any person 
under the provisions of clause ( a ) or clay c ( b ) of sub 

claiming cxcmption , under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 
section ( 2 ) of section 4 , shall consist of three parts . Onc 

from payment of the entertainment tax shall prcsont an 

application for such exemption to the Commissioner ten 
part shall remain on tho ticket book and the remaining 
two parts shall be detached therefrom and issucd to the 

clear days before the date of the entertainment. An 

application for cxemption not presented before such 
purchaser; and shall bear on each part of such ticket the 

period may, unless sufficient cause is shown for not 
price of admission , the amount of tax payable if any , and 
the total amount recoverable from the purchaser , the book 

making the application before ten days as aforesaid , be 
number and the serial number of the ticket, the date on 

rejected . 
which and the show for which it is issued . 

26 . Form of eremption under section 5 ( 1 ) . Where 
( 2 ) On admission of the holder of the ticket the pro 

exemption is given under clause ( a ) , (b ) or ( c ) of suh 
prictor shall cause to be collected one of the two parts of 

section ( 1 ) of section 5 the Commissioner shall issue to 
the ticket and the other part to be relurned to him . 

the proprietor of the entertainment a certificate in Form 

" F " or, as the case may be, in Form " G " and the pro 
( 3 ) The holder of the ticket shall relain bis part till he 

prietor shall comply with the conditions stated therein . 
leaves the place of entertainment and the part retained by 
the proprictor shall be retained by him till the entertain 

27. Classes of cinema films qualified for exemption 
ment is over . 

under section 5 ( 3 ) . - A cinema film which hay been 

awarded the President s Gold Medal, or which the Gov 
18 . Returns required under section 4 ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( b ). croment on a recommendation made by the Advisory 
Every proprietor making a consolidated payment under Committee appointed by the Government for the purpose , 
clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 or making considers as fulfilling an educational or social purpose of 
payment in accordance with return of the payments for 

a high order, shall be qualified for excmption under sec 
admission under clause ( b ) of the said sub - section ( 2 ) 

tion 5 ( 3 ) . 
of scction 4 , shall, within ten days of the date of çnter 
tainment, submit to the prescribed officer in his office 

28. Applications for exemption under section 5 ( 3 ) . 

All applications for exemption under sub - section ( 3 ) of 
a return in Form B showing the number of tickets (not 

section 5 of the Act shall be made to the Government 
being complimentary tickets ) issued at onch rate , the 

and entered in the office of the Commissioner not later 
serial number of tickets issued , the gross amount received 

than ten days before the date of the entertainment. An 
from the sale of tickets, and the amount of tax payable 

application for exemption not presented before such 
to the Government. He shall, if so required by the 
prescribed officer , also submit to the said officer , within 

period may, unless sufficient causc shown for not making 
ten days of the date of entertainment, il retum in Form 

the pplication before ten days as aforesaid , be rejected . 
C showing the price of programme or synopsis including 29 . Indian soldiers (including airmen ) and sailors in 
tax , the number of programmes or synopsis issued , the uniform . - ( 1 ) In the case of entertainments given by 
gross amount received from the sale thereof and the naval, inilitary and air forces and other armed forces of 
amount of tax payable to the Government. 

the Union , the price of tickets sold to the Indian soldiers 
19 . Return required wider secrion 4 ( 2 ) ( C ). When a 

( including airmen ) and sailors in uniform shall be the 
proprietor is permitted to avail himself of the provisions 

price of admission only , exclusive of tax . 
of clause ( c ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 , he shall ( 2 ). Such tickets shall be special unstamped tickets 
submit to the prescribed officer, within ten days of the marked with the price of admission only and shall be 
date of entertainment, a return in Form D showing the issued through a service authority not below the rank of 
number of persons admitted through the mechanical con a commissioned officer and the proprietor shall submit 
trivance , the gross amount paid for admission by such to the prescribed officer a weekly return of such tickets 
persons and the amount of tax payable to the Government, in Form " H " . 
L328GI/65 


- 


- - 


150 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) [PART III - SEC. 3 

- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = = 
(3 ) Where a mechanical contrivance under clause ( c ) section 10 of the Act the ticket, badge , card of member 
of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 is used , soldiers ( includ ship , voucher or documents by means of which he was 
ing airmen ) and sailors shall be admitted by another admitted , or a portion of the ticket by mcans of which hc 
entrance . 

was admitted , or the cover of the book or the principal 

part of the sheet from which the ticket, by means of which 
30 , Exemption under section 5 ( 2 ) of the Act. - ( 1 ) 

he was admitted , was taken . 
Soldiers, sailors and other members of the Defence Forces 
of India in uniform shall be exempted from entertainment 35 . Transfer to different parts of place of entertain 
tax : 

ment. - Any reference in these rules to admission to a 
(a ) when they visit a military cinema,- - full exemp place of entertainment or to a person admitted to a place 
tion ; 

of entertainment shall, so far as may be, be deemed to 
( b ) when they visit any other cinema 

include a reference to the admission to another part of 
( i ) full exemption , where the payment for 

the place of entertainment for admission to which part a 
admission thereto does not exceed Rs. 21 - 

payment involving tax or more tax is required of a person 

who has been admitted to one part of that place of 
( ii ) exemption to the extent of 50 per cent of 

entertainment and to such a person admitted to such 
the entertainment tax , where the payment 

another part of the place of entertainment and these rules 
for admission exceeds Rs. 2 / -. 

shall have effect accordingly . 
( 2 ) Tickets issued to the members of the Defence 
Forces of India in uniform , in the case of a cinema 

36 . Power to enter place of entertainment.- - ( 1 ) The 
referred to in clause ( b ) of sub- rulo ( 1 ) shall be special 

Commissioner, or the prescribed oflicer and any other 
tickets in three parts and shall have shown upon each 

officer duly authorised by the Commissioner or by the 
part of the price of admission , the amount of tax pay 

prescribed officer , in this behalf, may enter any place of 
able , if any , and the total amount recoverable from the 

entertainment while the entertainment is proceeding and 
purchaser , 

any place ordinarily used as a place of entertainment, at 

any reasonablo time, with a view to see whether the pro 
(3 ) Subject to the provisions of sub -rule ( 2 ) , the pro visions of the Act or these rules are being complied with . 
visions of rules 9 and 17 shall , so far as may be, apply 

Every such officer authorised by the Commissioner or by 
to tickets issued under this rule . 

the prescribed oflicer shall have in his possession a permit 
Explunution . - A military cinema means a cinema which signed by the Commissioner or the prescribed officer 
has been opened by the military or by military contractors authorising him in this behalf . 
or other persons at the request of the military for the 

( 2 ) An Entertainment Tax Officer not below the rank 
use of the Defence Forces of India . 

of Tax Inspector will be authorised to lodge complaint to 
31. Stamped complimentary tickets. - Every compli the Court for any irregularity noticed in any place of 
mentary ticket issued by a proprietor of an entertainment, entertainment , 
paying the amount of tax due, in the manner specified in 
sub -section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Act, shall have shown 37 . Inspection of books, issue of passes, etc . — The 
thereon the price of admission which corresponds to the 

Commissioner or the prescribed officer may require the 
class to which the holder is to be admitted , the date and proprietor of an entertainment to produce for inspection 
show for which it is available and shall have securely 

all his books and records and all tickets or portion of 

tickets in his possession relating to the entertainment and 
afixed to it a stamp of the value of the tax payable under 
section 3 and the provisions of rules 9 and 13 shall , as to issue passes in favour of persons who have to perform 

any duty in connection with the entertainment or any 
far as may be, apply to such tickets, 

other duty imposed upon them by law whenever an 
32 . Unstamped complimentury tickets. Every compli 

occasion arises. 
mentary - ticket issucd by a proprictor of an entertainment, 
who has been permitted to avail himself of the provisions 

38 . Communication of the date of entertainment. - - The 

proprietor of any entertainment for which admission is to 
of sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Act, shall have 
shown thereon the Book No, and Serial No, of the ticket, 

bo made on payment, stall intimate to the prescribed 
the price of admission which corresponds to the class to 

officer at least one day before the date marked for its 
which the holder is to be admitted , the tax payable under 

performanco the name and nature of tho entertaipment , 
section 3 and the date and show for which the ticket is 

the place where , and the date and time when , the same 
available and the provision of rule 17 shall, as far as may 

entertainment is to take place . For this purpose the 

proprietor shall file the nccessary declaration in the office 
be, apply to such tickets . 

of the prescribed officer . 
33. Admission against complimentary tickets . Not 

The declaration above referred may be dispensed with , 
more than one person shall be admitted against each com 

in respect of entertainment which are ordinarily performed 
plimentary ticket issued by a proprietor of an entertain 

in a fixed place, 
ment . 

By order and in the name of the Administrator of Goa , 
34 . Production of tickets -- - A person who has been 

Daman and Diu . 
admitted to an entertainment shall , upon demand made 
during the course of, or immediately before or after, the 

V . S. SRINIVASAGOPALAN 
entertainment, produce to any officer authorised under 

Deputy Secretary (Finance ) 


Name of proprietor: . . . .. . . . 

Date of 
Denomina- Opening purchase 
tion of balance of fresh 
stamps 

stamps 


FORM (A ) 

( See rule 15) 
Retorn of stamps of an entertainment 
Number used Number used Total 

Serial 
Number Total on tickets on compli- No Closing Number of 
purchased No . other than mentary 6 and balance tickets sold 

2 and complimen tickets No. 7 (5 minus 8 ) - 
No. 4 tary tickets 

From To 
4 

7 8 

9 10 11 


Remarks 


2 


3 


12 


Date . . 


Signature of thc Proprietor , . 


FORM ( B ) 

( Şeo rule 18 ) 
Statement of tickets not being complimentary tickets Issued when duty is payable under clause (a ) or (b ) of sub -section (2 ) of section 4 
Name and place of entertainment:. . 

Dato of perfornance : . . 
Number of tickets Scrial number of 

Amount of tax 
Number and time Price of tickets issued subject to 

tickets issued 

payable to Remarks 
of show including duty tax 

Gross rcccipts Government 
From 

Rs. 

Rs. 


I 


- 


- 


LUULUU 


Date , 


Signature of the Proprietor , 


PART III - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


151 


FORM C 


Statement of programmes of synopsis issued when tax is payable 
under caluse (a ) or (b ) of sub-section ( 2 ) of section 4 
Name and place of ontertainment : . . . . 

Date of performance :. . . . 


Price of pro - 
grammo or 

syaopsis in - 
cluding tax 


Numbor issued of Gross 
programmos or synopsis roceipts 

subject to tax the 


Numberand timsofshow 


Amountof uypayable 
toGovt. 


|Remarks 


This certificate is issued on the following conditions : 

( 1 ) The whole of the takings of the entertainment 
without any deduction for expenses , bowever , small , is 
to be paid over to . . . 

( 2 ) If the Commissioner of Entertainments so requires, 
a full and true account of the whole of the takings , to 
gether with a written acknowledgement from the Society, 
Institution or Fund specified under condition ( 1 ) is fur 
nished to them by the persons responsible for the manage 
ment of the entertainment, within one month after the 
date of the entertainment, and those persons will be 
liable for the payment of the proper tax if the Commis 
sioner of Entertainments is not satisfied that the whole 
of the takings , without any deduction for expenses , have 
in fact been paid over to the Society , Institution or Fund 
referred to . 

( 3 ) This certificate shall not be used for any other 
entertainment than that specified above , and it shall be 
exhibited in a prominent position at the public entrance to 
the place of entertainment at the time the public are 
admitted and during the entertainment, No correction 


Compulsory Voluntary 


Rs. 


Dato . . . . 


Signature of the Proprietor ; 


FORM D 

(Sce rule 19 ) 
Return of persons admitted through mechanical contrivance 
Name and place of entertaininent :. . 

Dato of performance : . . 


( 4 ) If the entertainment is not given on the date or at 
the place specified above , the persons responsible for the 
management of the entertainment sball give notice in 
writing to that effect within one week after the date fixed 
for holding it. 

( Signed ) 

Commissioner of Entertainments 
Note Failure to comply with any of the conditions 
set out in this certificate involves liability of fine which 
may extend to five hundred rupees . 


Price of Number of 
admission persons 

admittod 


Gross 
receipts 


Amount of 
tax payable 
to Govern - 
ment 


Remarks 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Dato . . 


Signature of tho Propriсtor . . 


FORM E 

(Sco rule 24 ) 

Return of complimentary tickets 
Name and place of entertainment : . . 

Date of performance : , , 


FORM G 

(See rule 26 ) 
1 Form of Certificate proscribed under rule 26 for exemption 

under clause (b ) or (c ) of sub -section ( 1) of section 5 
This is to certify that the Commissioner of Entertainmonts 
authorisos the entertainment specified below to be given 

* clause (6 ) 
REE OF ENTERTAINMENT TAX under clauso Co ) of 
gub -coction (1) of soction 5 of the Act . 

Doscription : 
Date ; 
Place : 
This certificate is issued on the following conditions : 

( 1) This cortificate shall not be used for any other enter 
tainment than that specified above , and it shall be exhibited 
in a prominent position at the public entrance to tho place of 
entertainmont at the time the public are admitted and during 
tho entertainment . No correction or erasure of any kind shall 
bo made in the certificato . 

(2 ) If the entertainmont is not given on the date or at the place 
spocified above , the porsons responsible for tho managomont 
of the entertajamont shall give notico in writing to that effoct 
within a week after the date fixed for holding it. 


Class 


ofticket 


Rateof ticket 


Number of 
complimca 
tary tickets 

issued 


Serial number of tickots Amount of 
issued 

tax payable 

-- - to Govera 
From 

To 

ment 


2 


3 


1 


RS , 


(Signed ) . . 

Commissioner of Entertainments 
* Strike out which is not applicable . 


Date , 


Signature of the Proprietor . . 


FORM H 

(See sub -rule (2) of rulo 29 ] 
Return of tickets gold under rulo 29 to Indian soldiers 

(inclyding airmen ) and sallors in un form 
Name and place of entertainment ; . . Woek ending: . . 


Rato of tickots sold 


Numbor of tickets sold 
at each rato 

2 


Remarks 

3 


FORM F 

( See rule 26 ) 
Form of Certificate prescribed under rule 26 
This is to certify that the Commissioner of Entertain 
ments authorises the entertainment specified below to be 
given FREE OF ENTERTAINMENTS TAX provided that 
the whole of the takings are devoted to philanthrophic 
or charitable purposes : 

Description : 
Date : 
Place : 


Dato . . . . . 1 


Signature of the Propriotor . . . . . . .. 


152 


-- 


- 


A 


- 


- 


- 


- - = 


- 


_ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) (Part III — SEC . 3 

- - - - - - - - - - - - : S :SSSS 
FORM I 

[ See Rule 8 ] 
Register of refund and ronowals of damaged or spoiled ontertainment stamps 


nDateofapplication| 

forrefundorrenewall 


Whethertheapplica wtionisforrefundor| 

renewal 


SerialNo. 


#Nameandaddressof 

theapplicant uDateofpurchaseof! 

stamps 


Numberofstamps tenderedforrefund orrenewal 


Descriptionofstamps (differentrates) 


Facevalueofstamps ofeachrate 


Totalvalueofstamps 
(ofallrates) 


StampsValueofstamps returnedinrespect ofwhichrefundor renewalisrefused 
Facevalueofstamps admittedforrefund Amountdeductedогrenewal fromthefacevalue ofstampsitsperrule Netamountofrefund 
6orrule7(c) 

of 
Eallowedoramountin 

lieuofrenewalof allowedtoberenew 
stamps Value 


Howtherefundor renewalismadewith referencetoitsdate Signatureofrecipient ofrefundorrenewal Attestationbytheofstamps Officerconcerned Remarks 


ed 


16 


- - 


- 


- 


I 


- 


- 


- -- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


of Indi, and by the 


Legislature Department 

Panjim , the 13th November 1964 
No, LA / 1057764The following Act passed by the 
Legislative Assembly of Goa , Daman and Diu received 
the assent of the President of India on the 27th October 
1964 , and is hereby published for general information . 
THE GOA , DAMAN AND DIU EXCISE DUTY 

ACT, 1964 
(No. 5 of 1964 ) (27th October, 1964 ] 
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to 
the levy of a tree tax and of a duty of cxcise on liquor in 
the Union Territory of Goa , Daman and Diu and for 
mattery connected therewith . 

Be it cpacted hy the Legiylative Assembly of Goa , 
Daman and Diu in the Fifteenth year of the Republic 
of India as follows : 

1 , Short tirle , extent and commencement. - ( 1 ) This 
Act may be called the Goa , Daman and Diu Excise Duty 
Act, 1964 . 

(2 ) It extends to the whole of the Union Territory of 
Goa , Daman and Diu . 

( 3 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Govein 
ment may , by notification , appoint and different dates may 
be notified for different areas . 

2 . Definitions. In this Act, unless the context other 
wise requires, — 

( a ) " heer " includes ale , stout, porter and any other 
fermented liquor usually made from malt ; 

(b ) " to bottle" means to transfer liquor from a cask 
or other vessel to a botile , jar, flask or similar receptacle 
for the purpose of sale, whether any process of manufac 
ture or rectification be employed or not, and includes 
rebottling ; 

( c ) " country liquor " means liquor manufactured in any 
part of India other than foreign liquor; 

( d ) " denatured" mcans effectually and permanently 
rendered unfit for human consumption ; 

( 0 ) " Commissioner" means the Commissioner appoint 
ed under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 ; 

( f) “ duty " means the duty of excise imposed by or 
under this Act in any of the ways indicated in section 
13 , and in the case of imports , the countervailing duty 
mentioned in entry 51 of List II in the Seventh Schedule 
to the Constitution ; 

( g ) " Exciso Officer " means the Commissioner or any 
other officer appointed under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
3 ; 

( h ) " export" mcans take out of the Territory to any 
place in India beyond the limits of the Territory ; 

(i) " foreign liquor" means beer, brandy, whisky, gin , 
rum , milk punch , wines and such other liquor as may, 
by notification be declared by the Government as foreign 
liquor for the purposes of this Act; 

(i) " Government" means the Government of Goa , 
Daman and Diu ; 

(k ) " import " means bring into the Territory from any 
placo in India beyond the limits of the Territory . 

(1) " liquor " includes spirits of wine , methviated or 
denatured spirits , spirits, wines, toddy, beer, feni and 
all liquid consisting of or containing alcohol other than 
medicinal and toilet preparations ; 

(m ) "manufacture " includes every process , whether 
natural or artificial, by which any fermented , spirituous, 


or intoxicating liquor is produced , prepared or blended 
und also every process for the rectification or redistilla 
tion or liquor ; 

( 0 ) " notification " means notification published in the 
Official Gazettc ; 

( 0 ) " Official Gazette " means the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Government Gazette ; 

( p ) " place " includes a house , building, shop , tent, 
vehicle, vessel, boat, raſt or cnclosure; 

( 9 ) " prescribed " means prescribed by rules made under 
this Act; 

( r ) " provf litro " means a litre of a mixture of ethyl 
alcohol and distilled water which at the temperature of 51 
degrces Fahrenheit weighs exactly twelve -thirteenths 
( 12 / 13 ) parts of an equal mcasure of distilled water at 
the same temperature . 

( s ) " rectification " includes every process whereby 
spirits are purified or are coloured or flavoured by mixing 
any material therewith ; 

(t ) " sale " with its grammatical variations and cognate 
expressions includes every transfer otherwise tban by way 
of giſt; 

( u ) " spirits " means any liquor containing alcohol and 
obtained by distillation , whether it is denatured or not; 

(v ) " Territory ” means the Union Territory of Goa , 
Daman and Diu ; 

( w ) " toddy” means fermented or unfermented juice 
drawn from coconut, cajuri or any kind of palm -tree ; 

( x ) " transport" means to move from one place to 
another within the Territory . 

3. Appointment of Excise Officers and delegation of 
powers. - ( 1 ) For the purpose of implementing the pro 
visions of this Act, the Government may appoint & 
Commissioner and as many Deputy or Assistant Com 
missioners or other officers as may be considered neces 
sary . 

( 2 ) The Government may delegate to the Commis 
sioner all or any of its powers under this Act . 

( 3 ) The Commissioner may , subject to the approval 
of the Government, delegate to any Deputy or Assistant 
Commissioner, or such other officer as may be prescribed , 
all or any of his powers under this Act. 

4 . Import and export of liquor. — No liquor shall be 
imported into or exported from the Territory except on 
the authority of a permit issued by the Commissioner 
indicating that the duty , if any, imposed by or under this 
Act has been paid or a hond has heen executed for the 
payment thereof in the prescribed form and manner , 

5 . Transport of liquor.. . No liquor , exceeding such 
quantity as the Government may , from time to time, 
prescribe hy notification either for the whole of the 
Territory or for any local area thercof, shall be trans 
ported within the Territory dycept on the authority of 
and in accordance with the conditions, if any , in a permit 
issued hy the Commissioner : 

Provided that unless the Government by notification 
otherwise directs with respect to any local area , no such 
permit shall be required when foreign ljquor is trans 
ported for genuine private consumntion or for salr at anv 
place at which the sale of such liquor is duly licensed 
or nermitted under the provisions of this Act. 

to Removal of liquor from distillory , etc . No liquor 
shall ho removed from any distillery , hrervery , not still 
wzrehouse or other place of storinge establishert or licensed 
under this Act unless the duty , if any, payable under this 


PART III. Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887 ) 


153 


Act has been paid or unless a bond has been executed 
for the payment thereof in the prescribed form and 
manner , 

7. Mmmfacture of liquor. - - ( 1 ) No liquor shall be 
manufactured or produced or bottlal, no tree shall be 
tapped for toddy and no juice shall be drawn from any 
trce or from cashew fruit exccpt under the authority of a 
licence issued under this Act. 

( 2 ) No person shall 119e, keep or have in his possession 
any material, still , utersil , implement cr apparatus for the 
purpose of manufacturing any liquor and no distillery , 
brewery or pot still shall be constructed or worked , save 
under the authority of a licence issued under this Act in 
this behalf , 

8 . Possession of and transactions in liquor. - ( 1 ) No 
person not being a licensed manufacturer or dealer of 
liquor shall havc in his possession any quantity of liquor 
in excess of such quantity as the Government may , by 
notification , proscribe, except under the authority of a 
permit issued by the Commissioner and in accordance with 
the conditions, if any, thercin . 

( 2 ) Every dealer or vendor of liquor shall maintain 
a full account of his transactions in liquor in the prescrib 
ed form . 

9 . Sale of liquor . — No liquor shall be sold cxcept under 
the authority of a licence issued under this Act ; 

Provided that the Government may, by notification , 
direct that a licence for sale granted under any other 
law for the time being in force in the Territory may , 
suhject to such conditions 19 may be specificd in the 
notification be deemed to be a licence granted under this 
Act. 


10 . Prohibition of transport of liquor . - The Govern 
ment may , by notification , prohibit, the transport of 
liquor. 

11. Estahlishment of distilleries and warehouses, — The 
Commissioner may with the previous approval of the 
Government 

( a ) establish a public distillery , or authorise the estah . 
fishment of one or more private distilleries , in which 
liquor may be manufactured under a licence granted 
under this Act; 

( h ) establish a public warehouse , or authorise the 
establishment of one or more private warehouses, wherein 
liquor may he deposited and kept without payment of 
duty ; and 

( c ) discontinue any public or private distillery or 
Warehouse so established . 

12 . Levy of Duty . — There shall be levicd and collected , 
at such rates and in such manner as may be prescribed by 
or under this Act, not cxceeding the rates set forth in 
the Schedule a duty of excise on all liquor manufac 
tured in , or brought into the Territory : 

Provided that no such duty shall be levied on toddy 
when used for the manufacture of jaggery , vinegar, yeast . 
or nccra or when drunk as such . 

13. Mode of Levy: - - The duty on liquor leviable under 
this Act may he levied in one or more of the following 
ways , namely : 

(a ) by way of a duty on the quantity of liquor manu 
factured in or passed out of any place of manufacture or 
storage including a distillery , hreivery or warehouse licens 
ed or established under this Act; and . 

(b ) by way of a duty on the quantity of liquor import 
ed into the Territory . 

14 . Recovery of tree tax . - ( 1 ) There shall be levied 
on each tree from which today is drawn a tax at the 
rates specified in the Schedule and in the manner prescrib 
ed . 

( 2 ) When any tax is levied on a tree under sub -section 
( 1 ) the licence under sertion 7 shall be granted to a 
person other than the owner of such tree only on pro 
duction of the written consent of such owner to the grant 
of the licence . 

( 3 ) When any tax is due in respect of any tree , it 
shall be recoverable from tho tapner or in default hy 
him , where the tree is tapped without a licence under this 
Act, from the owner or occupier of the land , unless he 
proves that the trees were tarred without his consent. 

Explanation . In this section , the expression owner 
includes a person in possession , 


15 . Licences. — Every licence or permit granted under 
this Act shall be granted , - 

( a ) by such officer, 
(b ) on payment of such fces, if any , 
( c ) for such period , 
( d ) subject to such conditions restrictions, and 

( o ) in such form and with such particulars as may 
be prescribed or under this Act, 

16 . Power to cancel licences. - ( 1 ) A licence or permit 
granted under this Act may be cancelled by the Commis 
sioner for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in 
writing, after giving an opportunity to the person con 
cerned for making any representation and after cousi 
dering such representation . 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of sub - section ( 1 ) the Commissioner may cancel or 
suspend any licence or permit granted under this Act, 

(a ) if any fee or duty payable by the holder thereof be 
not duly paid ; or 

( b ) if there is any brcach by the holder of such licence 
or permit, or by his servants , or by any one acting with 
his express or implied consent on his behalf of any of the 
terms or conditions of such licence or permit or of the 
terms of any agreement cxecuted under section 17 ; or 

( c ) if the holder thercof is punished for any offence 
against this Act, or of any cognizable or non -bailable 
offence ; or 

( d ) if the conditions of the licence or permit provide 
for such cancellation or suspension . 

( 3 ) The holder of á licence or permit shall not be 
entitled to any compensation for the cancellation or sus 
pension thereof under this section nor to a refund of any 
fee paid or deposit made in respect thereof , 

17 . Agreement. - Every person taking out a licence 
under this Act may be required to execute an agreement 
in conformity with the tenor of his licence and in the 
form prescribed , and to give such security , if any, for 
the performance of his agreement as may be prescribed . 

18 . Measures, weights and testing instruments. — Every 
person who manufactures or sells any liquor is bound 

( a ) to equip himself with such measures , weights and 
instruments as the Commissioner may require and to 
keep the same in good condition ; and , 

( b ) on the requisition of any Excise Officer dulv cm 
powered in that behalf, at any time to measure , weigh or 
test any liquor in his possession in such manner as such 
Officer may require . 

19 . Prohibition of sale etc. to certcin persons. — No 
licensed vendor and no person in the employ of a vendor 
and acting on his behall shall sell or deliver any liquor 

( a ) to any person apparently under the age of 18 years , 
OT 

(b ) to any person of unsound mind . 

20 . Recovery of sums due to Government.-- In respect 
of any duty and other sums of any kind payable to the 
Government under any of the provisions of this Act or 
of the rules made thereunder , the officer empowered to 
levy such duty or require the payment of such sums may 
deduct the amount so payable from any money owing 
to the person from whom such sums may be recoverable 
or due which may be in his hands or under his disposal 
or control, or may recover the amount hy attachment and 
sale of excisable goods helonging to such person ; and if 
the amount payable is not so recovered he may prepare 
a certificate signed by him specifying the amount due 
from the person liable to pay the same and send it to the 
appropriate officer for the time being authorised by law 
to recover arrears of revenue and having jurisdiction over 
the place in which such person resides or conducts his 
business and the said officer , on receipt of such certi 
ficate , shall proceed to recover from the said person the 
amorint specified therein as if it were an arrear of land 
revenue . 


21, Transitional. - ( 1 ) Every stockist, dealer or vendor 
of liquor shall give a declaration in writing to the Com 
missioner or an officer nominated by him in this hchilf, 
containing detailed particulars and account of the various 
categories of liquor in his possession or control on the 
date of coming into force of this Act, 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[PART III- SEC. 3 


(b ) enter and inspect at any time within the hours 
during which sale is permitted and at any other time 
during which the same may be open , any place in which 
any liquor is kept for sale by any person holding a licence 
under this Act; 

( c ) examine any book , account, or register or examine, 
test, measure or weigh any materials, stills, utensils, im 
plements, apparatus or liquor found in any such place as 
is referred to in clauses ( a ) and ( b ) above; and , 

( d ) scize any mcasuros, weights or testing instruments 
which he has reason to believe to be false. 

24 . Power of certain officers to investigate into 
offences. ( 1 ) Any officer of the Excise Department not 
below such rank as may be prescribed may investigate 
into any offence punishable under this Act committed 
within the limits of the area in which such officer exercises 
jurisdiction . 

( 2 ) Any such officer may exercise the same powers in 
respect of such investigation as an officer in charge of a 
police station may exercise in respect of an investigation 
into a cognizable case under the provisions of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure 1898 and , if specially empowered 
in that behalf by the Government, such officer may for 
reasons to be recorded by him in writing, stop further 
proceedings against any person concerned in any such 
offence into which he has investigated . 


( 2 ) No such liquor shall be sold by him exccpt on 
payment of duty equal in amount to that leviable on 
liquor of a like kind if manufactured in , or, as the case 
may be, imported into , the Territory after the commence 
ment of the Act and on the grant of permission to sell the 
same by the Commissioner or his nominee , 

( 3 ) The Commissioner may permit the sale of the 
wholo or part of any such stock of liquor on the deposit of 
a suitable amount pending the payment of the duty 
leviable or on executing a bond therefor in the form and 
manner prescribed . 

22 . Power of Government to make rules . - ( 1 ) The 
Government may make rules generally for the purpose 
of carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

( 2 ) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing provisions, such rules may provide 
for 

(a ) regulating the delegation of any power by the 
Commissioner ; 

(b ) defining the powers and duties of officers of the 
Excise Department; 

(c ) regulating the extraction and distillation of toddy 
and its sale to licensed vendors ; 

( d ) regulating the extraction of cashew juice , the price 
to be charged for its sale, the distillation of liquor there 
from and its sale; 

( e ) regulating the import , export, transport or posses 
sion of any liquor ; 

(f ) prescribing the mode of and conditions for the 
grant of licence to manufacture or sell liquor by whole 
sale or by retail, including conditions as to the period 
of validity of the licence, areas in which it is valid and 
the procedure to be followed before its grant; 

( 8 ) the prohibition of sale of any liquor to such per 
sons or class of persons in such circumstances as may 
be prescribed , 

(h ) the prohibition of the employment by the licensee 
of such persons or class of persons as may be specified , 
to assist in his business in such capacity as may be speci 
fled ; 

(i) the prevention of drunkeness , gambling of disorderly 
conduct in or near any licensed premises and the assembly 
of persons of bad character in such premises ; 

(j) regulating the deposit of any liquor in a warehouse 
and its removal therefrom or from any distillery , pot still 
or brewery ; 

(k ) prescribing the manner of levying or computing 
the fees payable in respect of any licence or permit or 
in respect of storage of any liquor ; 

(1) regulating the time, place and manner of payment 
of any duty or fee ; 

( m ) prescribing the restrictions and conditions subject 
to which any licence or permit may be granted ; 

( n ) fixing the days and hours during which any licensed 
premises may or may not be kept open and regulating 
the closure of such premises on special occasions; 

(0 ) regulating the form of accounts to be maintained 
and the returns to be submitted by licensees ; 

(p ) declaring the process by which spirits manufac 
tured in India shall be denatured and for causing such 
spirit to be denatured through the agency or under the 
supervision of Excise Officers ; 

( q ) providing for the destruction or other disposal of 
any liquor deemed to be unfit for use; and 

( 1) regulating the disposal of articles confiscated and 
the sale proceeds thereof. 

23 , Power to enter and inspect place of manufacture 
and sale. The Commissioner or any Excise Officer pot 
below such rank as may be prescribed , may , 

(a ) enter and inspect at any time by day or by night 
any place in which any licensed manufacturer carries on 
the manufacture of or stores any liquor : 

Provided that no Excise Officer other than the Commis 
sioner shall so enter or search any residential premises 
unless he is accompanied by the Sarpanch , or the Panch 
or any other respectablo person of the locality , 


25 . Power of seizure and detention .- ( 1 ) Subject to 
such restrictions as may he prescribed , any officer of the 
Excise, Police , Customs or Land Revenue Department not 
below such rank as may be prescribed , and any other 
person duly authorised in this behalf by the Government , 
may seize and detain any liquor Or other article which 
he has reason to believe to be liable to confiscation under 
this Act and may search any person , vessel, raft, vchicle, 
animal, package , receptacle or covering upon whom , or in 
or upon which , he may have reasonable cause to suspect 
any such liquor or article to be or to be concealed . 

(2 ) Where, as a result of such search , uo liquor or 
other article is actually found to be concealed on such 
person , vessel, raft . vehicle, animal, package . receptacle 
or covering, a certificate to that effect shall be given in 
the prescribed form by the officer to the person concem 
ed , 


26 . Search Warrants . If any Magistrate upon informa 
tion given by any Excise or Police officer or any other 
person has reason to helieve that an offence under this 
Act has been , is being or is likely to he committed , he 
mav , after recording the information in writing signed by 
the informant. issue a warrant for the search of any place 
in which he has reason to believe that any liquor or any 
utensil, implement, apparatus or materials, in respect of 
which sich offence has heen , is being, or is likely to be 
committed , is kept or concealed , 


27 . Power of Excise Officer to search without witrrant 
( 1 ) Whenever an officer of the Frcise Department, not 
helow such rank an mav he prescrihed . has reason to be 
lieve that an offence punishahle under this Act has been 
in heing or is likely to he committed in any place and 
that a search warrant cannot he ohtained without afford 
ing the nffender an opportunity of concerling evidence 
of the offence . he mav after recordin ? his Tenanns and 
grounds of his helief at anv time, by day or night, enter 
and search qurh mlace and may smize anything found 
therein which he has reason to believo to he liable to 
confiscation under this Act : 

Provided that no search shall be made during the hours 
from 7 n . m , to 7 a . m . save in excentional circumstances 
and with the prior approval of the Commissioner. 

( 2 ) Anv such officer mav arrest any person found in 
such place whom he has reasons to believe to be guilty 
of any offence under this Act : 

Provided that every person arrested under this section 
shall be admitted to hail hv such officer as aforesaid if 
sufficient hail he tendered for his appearance either before 
a Magistrate or an Excise Officer. 

28. Duty of officers of certain departments to renart 
offences and to assist Errise Officers. — Every officer of the 
Police . Customs and Land Revenue Departments shall he 
hound to give immediate information to an officer of the 
Excise Department of any breach of any of the provisions 
of this Act which mav come to his knowledge , and to 
aid any officer of the Ercise Department in carrving out 
the provisions of this Act upon request made by such 
officer. 


155 


- - 


- 


- - 


s 





PART II _ SEC. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 
- - = = - . - — 

29 . Duly of officer in charge of police starion to take on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished with fine 
charge of articles seized .- - Every officer in charge of a which may extend to one thousand rupees or with impri 
police station shall take charge of and keep in safe cus sonment which may extend to six months or with both . 
tody, pending the orders of a Magistratę or the Commis 

34 . Vexatious search seizure , etc. by Officers.- ( 1 ) 
sioner or an Excise Ollicer duly empowered in that be 

Any Excisc Officer or other person exercising powers 
balf , all articles seized under this Act which may be 

under this Act, or under the rulcs made thereunder , 
delivered to him ; and shall allow any officer of the 

who , 
Excise Departincnt who may accompany such articles to 

(a ) without reasonable ground of suspicion searches 
the police station or may be deputed for the purpose by 

or causes to be searched any place ; 
his superior otticer , to aflix his scals to such articles, and 
to take samples of or from them , All samples so takon ( b ) vexatiously and unnecessarily detains, searches or 
shall also be scaled with the seal of the officer in charge Arrests any person ; 
of the police station . 

( c ) vexatiously and unnecossarily seizes the movable 

property of any person , on pretence of seizing or search 
30 . Penalty for contravention of provisions. — Whoever, 

ing for any article liable to contiscation under this Act; 
in contravention oi this Act, or of any rules or Order 
made thereunder, or of the condictions in any licence or ( d ) commits, as such officer, any other act to the injury 
permit obtained under this Act , 

of any person , without having reason to believe that, such 

act is required for the execution of his duty ; 
(a ) imports, exports , transporls or possesses liquor; 
or 

shall , on conviction before a Majistrate , be punished 

with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees . 
(b ) manufactures , produces or bottles liquor; or 

(2 ) Any person willully and maliciously giving false 
( c ) constructs or works any distillery , brewery or pot 

information and so causing an arrest or a search to be 
still ; or 

made under this Act shall be punisnable with fine which 
( d ) uses, keeps, or has in his possession any mate 

may extend to two thousand fupces or with imprison 
rials , still , utensils , implements or apparatus whatsoever ment for a term which may extend to two years or with 
for the purpose of manufacturing liquor; or 

both . 
(e ) sells liquor; or 

35 . Penalties for offences not otherwise provided for.-- 

Whoever is guilty of any act or intentional omission in 
( f ) draws toddy from any tree , 

contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, or 
shall, on conviction before a Magistrate , be punished for 

of any rule or order made under this Act , and not other 
cach such ollence with a fine which may extend to one 

wise provided for therein shall be punished for each such 
thousand rupees or imprisonment for a term which may 

act or omission with fine which may extend to one 
extend to one year or with both . 

thousand rupees. 
Provided that in respect of any offence under clause 

36 . Presumption as to commission of offence in certain 
( f ) , the amount of fine may be such lower figure as may 

cases. - In every prosecution for an offence punishable 
be prescribed . 

under this Act, it shall be presumed until the contrary is 
31, Penalty for certain acts or omissions by holders of 

proved , that the accused person has committed such 
licence . Whoever , being the holder of a licence or per 

offencc in respect of any liquor, or any still, utensil, 
mit granted under this Act or being in the employ of 

implcmcnt, Or apparatus whatsoever for the manufac 

ture of liquor or any such inaterials as are ordinarily used 
such holder and acting on his behalf, — 

in the manufacture of liquor, for the possession of which 
( a ) fails to produce such licence or permit on demand he is unable to account satisfactorily ; and the holder of a 
by any Excise Officer or any other officer duly empower licence or permit under this Act shall be punishable, as 
ed to make such demand ; or 

well as the actual oflender, for any offence committed by 
( b ) wilfully does or omits to do anything in breach of 

any person in his employ and acting on his behalf as if 
any of the conditions of his licence or permit not other 

he had himself committed the same, unless he establishes 
wise provided for in this Act ; or 

that all due and reasonable precautions were exercised by 

him to prevent the cominission of such offence. 
(c ) wilfully coolravenes any rule made under section 
22 of this Act; or 

37 . Confiscation . — ( 1 ) In any case in which an offence 

has been committed under this Act, the liquor, materials , 
( d ) permits drunkenness , disorderly conduct, riot or still , utensil , implement or apparatus in respect or by 
gambling in any place in which any liquor is sold or manu means of which such offence has been committed shall 
factured ; or 

be liable to confiscation . 
( e ) permits persons of notoriously bad character to (2 ) Apy liquor lawfully imported , exported , transport 
meet or remain in any such place, 

ed , manufactured , had in possession or sold along with , 
shall on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished 

or in addition to , any liquor liable to confiscation under 
for each such offence with fine which may extend to five 

this section , and the receptacles , packages and coverings 
hundred rupees or with imprisonment which may extend 

in which any such liquor, materials, still, utensil, imple 
to three months or with both . 

ment or apparatus as aforesaid is or are found , and the 

other contents , if any , of tho receptacles or packages in 
32 . Penalty for certain acts by holders of licence for 

which the same is or are found , and the animals , carts , 
sale or manufacture . — Whoever, being the holder of a 

vessels or other conveyances used in carrying the same, 
licence for the sale or manufacture of liquor under this 

shall likewise be liable to confiscation , 
Act, or being in the employ of such holder acting on his Provided that no such animal, cart, vessel , or other 
behalf , 

conveyances shall be so liable to confiscation if the owner 
( a ) inixes or permits to be mixed with the liquor sold 

thereof, is not the owner of the articles thereby removed 
or manufactured by him any noxious drug or any foreign 

and establishes that he had no reason to believe that such 
ingredient likely to add to its actual or apparent intoxi 

offence was being or was likely to be committed . 
cating quality or strength ; 

( 3 ) When anything mentioned in sub -sections ( 1 ) and 
(b ) sells or exposes for sale foreign liquor which he 

( 2 ) is found in circumstances which afford reason to 
knows or has reason to believe to be country liquor; 

believe that an offence under this Act has been com 

mitted in respect or by means thereof, or when such 
( c ) marks any botile or its cork , or any case , package offence has been committed and the offender is not known 
or other receptacle containing liquor manufactured from or cannot be found , the Commissioner may order confisca 
rectified spirit or country liquor with the intention of tion of the same : 
causing it to be, believed that such bottle , case , package 
or other receptacle contains foreign liquor. 

Provided that no such order shall be made until the 

expiration of one month from the date of seizing the 
shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished for 

thing or animal in question or without hearing the person , 
each such offence with fine which may extend to five 

if any , claiming any right thereto , and considering the 
hundred rupecs or with imprisonment which may extend 

evidence , if any, which he produces in support of the 
to three months or with both , 
33 . Penalty for possession of contraband liquor. — Who 

Provided further, that if the thing in question is liable 
ever, without lawful authority , has in his possession any 

to speedy and natural decay , or if the Commissioner is of 
quantity of liquor knowing the same to have been unlaw 

the opinion that the sale of the thing or animal in question 
fully imported , transported or manufactured , or knowing 

would be for the benefit of its owner, he may al any time 

direct it to be sold , and the provisions of this section shall , 
that the prescribed duty has not been paid thereon , shall , so far as may be, apply to the net proceeds of such sale . 


claim . 


156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[PART III - SEC . 3 


- - - - 


SCHEDULE 
(Sou Sections 12 , 14 and 15) 

A 
Rates of duty on lyuor manufactured in or passed out of any 
place of manufacture or storage including a distillery , brewery 
or warehouse licenced or established under the Act : 
(1) Forcigo liquor other than Rs. 9 per proof litre 

milk punch , wiics and 


beer 


(2 ) Milk Punch and wincs Rs. 4 per bulk litre 
(3 ) Boer 

Rc, 0 - 75 P3 , por bulk 

litre 
(4 ) Country liquor 

Re, 1 pcr proof litre 
(5 ) Rectificd spirit or abso - Re. V -50 ps , per proof 

luto alcohol cxcopt when litro 
used for manufacturo 
of liquor or for medical 

purposes 
(6 ) Denatured spirit 

Re. 0 -5v ps. per proof 

litre 
( 7) For blending of country Ro. ( -50 ps . per bulk 
liquor 

litrc in addition to the 
duty on manufacture 


B 


Rates of countervailing cluty on liquor imported into 
the Territory : 

Such amount as represents the difference , if any, be 
tween the duty leviable under this Act on the quantity of 
liquor imported , had it beca manufactured in the Terri 
tory and the duly actually levicd on the sunc quantity of 
similar goods produced at the place of manufacturo : 


( 4 ) When anything is confiscated under sub -sections 
( 1 ) or ( 2 ) above , it shall thereupon vest in the Govern 
ment. 

38 . Limits of confiscution . In every case in which , 
under this Act, anything is liable to confiscation and 
penalty , such confiscation and penalty may be ordered , - 

(a ) wiihout limit by the Commissioner, or 

( b ) upto confiscation of goods not exceeding five hun 
dred rupees and imposition of penalty not exceeding fifty 
rupees by such other Excise Officers as the Government 
miy, from time to time, cmpower in that behalf . 

39 . Fire in licu of confiscation . Whenever confiscation 
is authorised by this Act, the officer ordering the same 
may give the owner of the goods an option to pay in lieu 
of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit. Pay 
ment of the five docs not absolve the owner of the goods 
from the payment of duties and other charges prescribed 
in this Act. 

40 . Appeals . - ( 1 ) Any person deeming himself 
aggrieved by any decision or order passed by any Excise 
Officcr under this Act or the rules made thereunder may, 
within ninety dayy from the date of such decision or 
Order, appcal therefrom to the Commissioner , or where 
the decision Or order was passed by the Commissioner , to 
the Government. The Commissioner or the Government 
may thereupon make such further inquiry and pass order 
as he or it thinks fit, confirming , altering or annuling the 
decision or order appealed against ; 

Provided that no such order in appeal shall have the 
eflect of subjecting any person to any greater confiscation 
or penally than has been adjudged against him in the 
original decision or order . 

( 2 ) Every order passed in appeal under this section 
shall , subject to the power of revision conferred by sec 
tion 41, bo final. 

41. Revision by Government. - The Government may, 
on the application of any person aggrieved by any deci 
sion or order pussed under this Act, or the rules made 
thereunder , by any Excise officer or by the Commissioner 
and from which no appcal lies, reverse or modify such 
decision or order , 

42. Exemptions. - ( 1 ) Where in the opinion of the 
Government reasonable grounds exist for doing so , the 
Government may by notification and subject to such 
conditions and restrictions as it may impose, exempt any 
person or class of persons or any liquor from all or any 
of the provisions of this Act or of rules made thereunder 
cither throughout Goa , Daman and Diu or in any speci 
ficd part thereof or for any specified period or occasion . 

( 2 ) For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared 
that nothing in this Act shall apply to the import, export 
possession or transport of liquor or other articles dealt 
with by any law relating to Customs or Central Excise . 

43. Publication of rules and notifications .- - All rules 
made and notifications issued under this Act shall be pub 
lished in the Ollicial Gazette and shall thereupon have 
cflect from the date of such publication or from such other 
date as may be specified in that behalf . 

44. Bar of certain suits.-- - ( 1 ) No suit shall lie in any 
civil court against the Government or any officer or 
person for damages for any act in good faith done or 
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act . 

( 2 ) No civil court shall try any suit which may lawfully 
bo brought against the Government in respect of anything 
done or alleged to be done in pursuance of this Act 
unless the suit is instituted within one hundred and eighty 
days from the date of commission of the act complained 
of. 

45 . Repeal. ( 1 ) On the commencement of this Act, 
any law in force in the Union Territory of Goa , Daman 
and Diu authorising taxes and dutics on manufacture and 
sale of liquor or providing for any matter for which pro 
vision is made in this Act, shall stand repealed . 

( 2 ) The provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 
shall apply to the repeal under sub -section ( 1 ) as if the 
law referred to therein were a Central Act . 

46 . Power to remove difficulties. If any difficulty 
arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 
Government may, by order , as occasion requires , do any 
thing (not inconsistent with this Act) which appears to it 
to be necessary for removing the difficulty . 

S. BALAKRISHNAN 
Secretary to the Government 

of Goa , Daman and Diu 


Rates of fees on licences per year : 
1, Manufacture : 
( 1) For manufacturing forcign liquor other than 

bear : Rs, 500 / 
( 2 ) For manufacturing beer : Rs. 250 / 
(3 ) For manufacturing rectified spuit or absoluto 

alcohol or both : Rs. 2007 
(4 ) For manufacturing country liquor : Rs, 13 / 

per still . 
( 5 ) For blending of country liquor : Rs. 150 / -. 

(0 ) For bottling of foreign liquor : Rs. 100 / 
II . Sale : 
( 1 ) For wholesale vendors of liquor : Cities 

Rs. 1200 / -, Towas Rs. 800 / - and Villages 

Rs, 500 / 
( 2 ) For retail vendors of liquor : Cities Rs. 400 / - , 

Towns Rs. 300 / - and Villages Rs. 200 / 
For wliviesale vendors of rectificd spirit or 
absolute alcohol or depaturcd spirit : Cities 
Rs. 300 / - Towns Rs. 250 / - and Villages 
Rs. 200 / 
For retail vendors of rectificd spirit or absolute 
alcohol or denatured spirit : Cities Rs. 100 / -, 

Towos Rs. 50 / - and Villages Rs. 25 / -. 
Explanation . For the purposes of the above : 
( a ) (Cities ) means municipal areas of Panjim , 

Margao , Mapuca and Vasco da Gama . 
(b ) ( Towns ) means municipal areas of Ponda , 

Bicholim , Valpoi, Pernem , Sanguem , Quepem , 

Chauri, Curchorem , Sanquclim , Damun and Diu . 
(c ) ( Villages ) means all other parts of Goa , Daman 

and Diu . 
III. Import and Export : 
For each permit for import or export of liquor ; 

Rs. 10 / -, 
IV . Mlscellaneous : 
( 1 ) For retail vendors of liquor for keeping the 

shops open up to two hours after the prescribed 
time of closing : a surcharge of 50 % of the 

liccncc fcc . 
( 2 ) For an occasional licence for retail vendors of 

liquor : First day Rs. 10 / -, next 4 days Rs. 6 / 
per day, next 15 days Rs. 4 / - per day , next 40 
days Rs. 2 - 50 Ps. per day and next 60 days 
Rs. 1 -50 Ps. 


Tree tax per tree per year : 
( 1 ) Coconut tree Rs. 10 / , Cajuri and date trees 

Rs, 7 / - in Goa and Daman and Rs. 5 / - in Diu . 


PART III - Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


157 


(2) A SepaLt the neute either quar 


Finance Department 

Panjin , the 20th November 1964 
No. FS/ F . III / 11- 118 / 20584 — - In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 22 of the Goa , Daman and 
Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964 , the Government hereby 
makes the following rules. 
THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU ( EXCISE DUTY ) 

RULES , 1965 
CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 
1. Short title and commencement. - - These rules may be 
called the Goa , Daman and Diu Excise Duty Rules , 1964 , 
and shall come into force on 1st December 1964 . 

2 . Definitions - - In these rules, unless the context other 
wise requires : 
( a ) the Act means the Goa , Daman and Diu 

Excise Duty Act, 1964 ; 
(b ) Assistant Excise Commissioner means the 

Assistant Commissioner appointed under sub 

section ( 1 ) of section 3 ; 
(c ) blending includes every process whereby coun 

try liquor coloured or flavoured by any mate 

rial thcrewith ; 
( d ) Commissioner means the Commissioner ap 

pointed under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 3 ; 
( c ) Excise Guard means a person appointed as 

an Excise Guard for the purposes of these 

Rules ; 
( f ) "Indian made foreign Liquor moans brandy, 

whisky, gin , rum , milk punch , wines, beer made 
in India and such other liquor as may be declar 
ed by the Government as Indian made foreign 

liquor; 
( 8 ) quart bottle means a bottlc of 0.750 litres ; 
( h ) retail vendor means a dealer who is licensed as 

such to sell liquor in quantity not exceeding 9 

litres or 12 quart bottles in ono transaction ; 
(i) Schedulo means Schedule appended to the Act; 
( ) section means a section of the Act; 
( k ) wholesale vendor means a dealer who is licens . 

ed as such to sell liquor in any quantity to any 
wholesale or rotail vendor , or to any other per 
son, in quantity exceeding 9 litres or 12 quart 
bottles under permit issucd by the Commis 
sioner or any other Excise Officer duly em 

powered in that bchalf; 
Words and expressions used in these rules , defined in 
the Act and not defined in these rules have the mean 
ings assigned to them in the Act . 


5. Application for permit. - A dealer desirous of 
importing Indian made foreign liquor, in bond , shall pre 
sent an application in Form El to the Commissioner, 
specifying : - 
( a ) the name of the distillery or brewery or ware 

house from which the liquor is to be imported ; 
(b ) the quantity , strength and description of each 

kind of liquor to be imported and whether the 

import is to be in bulk or in bottles ; 
( c ) the route of import and Check -post at entrance 

into the Territory ; 
the name and situation of the bonded warehouse 
in the Territory to which the liquor is to bo 

consigned. 
( 2 ) A separate application shall be made for each 
consignment. If the application is found to be in order , 
the applicant shall execute either a general or a special 
bond for payment of duty on the quantity to be imported , 
(unless a general bond previously executed by him is 
still in force ) . 

( 3 ) The Commissioner shall, unless there are reasons 
to the contrary , issue a permit in Form E2 , in quintupli 
cate , for import containing all the particulars specified in 
sub - rule ( 1 ) and clearly specifying that a bond for pay 
ment of duty has been executed . One copy of the permit 
shall be made over to the applicant, the second shall be 
forwarded to the appropriate Excise authority of the 
State or Union Territory of export, the third shall be 
forwarded to the Inspector of the Taluka , the fourth shall 
be forwarded to the Excise Check - post at entrance and 
the fifth will be retained by the Assistant Excise Commis 
şioner for record and verification of the consignment on 
arrival. The permit shall remain in force only up to the 
date specified therein . 

( 4 ) The permit shall be valid for 90 days which may 
be extended for further periods not exceeding a total of 
90 days by the Commissioner , provided that the applica 
tion for renewal is made before the date on which permit 
expires, 

( 5 ) The importer shall present his copy of permit to 
the appropriate Excise Officer of the State or Union Terri 
tory of export or the officer in charge of the distillery 
or brewery or warehouse from which the liquor is to be 
obtained , and shall get the necessary pags for export from 
that State or Union Territory specifying therein the quan 
tity, description and strength of liquor exported , the num 
ber and date of permit authorising import into the Terri 
tory . A copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Commis 
sioner . 

6 . Procedure on arrival of consignment in the Terri 
tory . - - ( 1 ) On arrival in the Territory , the consignment 
of Liquor shall be taken direct to the bonded warchouse , 
mentioned in the permit, under escort of an Excise Guard 
from the Excise Check - post of entrance , where it shall 
be tested and measured by the officer in charge of the 
bonded warehouse and shall be taken into store and enter 
ed in the register , 

( 2 ) As soon as may be , after such arrival, the officer 
in chargo of the warehouse shall also certify on the im 
porter s copy of the pass issued by the exporting State or 
Union Territory , full details regarding the liquor received 
in such form , if any, as may be required in the page or 
permit and shall return it to the office issuing it, after 
verification by the Assistant Excise Commissioner or Ex 
cise Officer , 

7. Clearance of consignment. - - The importer will clear 
the whole or part of the consignment from the bonded 
warehouse only on payment of duty , except when the 
removal thereof to other bonded warehouse is permitted 
by the Commissioner . 

Import on Prepayment of Duty 
8 . Conditions for import.- ( 1 ) A licensed wholesale 
vendor of Indian made foreign liquor or foreign liquor 
of the Regimental units of the armed forces of India 
stationed in the Territory , may import Indian made 
foreign liquor on prepayment of duty in the territory 
from a distillery or brewery or warehouse in other parts 
of India, under a permit granted as provided in the follow 
ing rules. 

(2 ) After the arrival of liquor in the territory, the 
duty shall be assessed and the duty paid in excess of the 
duty so assessed shall be refunded to the importer , 


CHAPTER II 
INDIAN MADE FOREIGN LIQUOR 

Import in bond 
3 . Methods of Import - - Subject to the provisions of the 
Act, Indian made foreign liquor may be imported in 
accordance with this chapter , either :-- - 

( 1 ) in bond for payment of duty in the Territory , 


ог 


( 2 ) on payment of duty in the Territory. 
4 . Conditions for Import in bond . – Any licensed whole 
sale vendor of Indian made foreign liquor or foreign 
liquor may import Indian made foreign liquor from a 
distillery or brewery or warehouse in other parts of India , 
under a bond for paymont of duty levied on such liquor, 
after he or his representative duly authorised on his 
behalf has : 
( a ) obtained a permit for import from the Commis 

sioner , and 
(b ) executed a general or special bond for pay 

mont of duty . 
28G1165 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


PART III — SEG , 3 


( b ) the 


theplicationension of 


9 . Procedure for obtaining a Permit .-- - ( 1 ) For a permit 
under the preceding rules, an application in Form E - 1 
shall be made in writing to the Commissioner specify 
ing : 
( a ) the name of the distillery or brewery or war 

house from which the import is to be made ; 
the description , quantity and strength of each 
kind of liquor to be imported and whether the 

import is to be in bulk or in bottles ; 
(c ) the route of import; and 

( d ) the amount of duty to be paid . 
( 2 ) A separate application shall be made for each 
consigament. If the application is found to be in order 
the Assistant Excise Commissioner shall , after checking 
and correcting the amount of duty entered therein , endorse 
the application with an order directing the applicant to 
pay the amount. 

( 3 ) The applicant shall , after paying the amount of 
duty as ordered by the Assistant Excise Commissioner , 
produce the receipt and the application before the Com 
missioner who shall issue the permit in quintuplicate . 
One copy of the permit shall be given to the applicant, 
the second copy shall be sent to the appropriate Excise 
Officer of the State or Union Territory of export , the 
third shall be sent to the Excise Inspector of the Taluka, 
the fourth shall be sent to the Excise Check - post at entrance 
and the fifth copy shall be retained by the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner, for record and for verification , if deemed 
necessary , of the consignment on arrival, 

( 4 ) The validity of the permit shall be of 90 days 
which may be extended , for further periods, not exceed 
ing a total of 90 days by the Commissioner , provided that 
the application for renewal is made before the date on 
which tho permit expires . 

10 . Procedure on arrival. — On receipt of the consign 
ment, the importer shall at once notify its arrival to the 
Excise Inspector of the Taluka in which his licensed pre 
mises are situated , and shall allow him to check the con 
signment and to examine and , if necessary , to test the 
contents or to take a sample hercof for test. 
Export 

11 . Methods of Export. - Subject to the provisions of 
the Act and the following rules, Indian made foreign 
liquor manufacturcd in the Territory may be exported 
from the distillery, brewery , warehouse or licensed whole 
sale vendor s premises either , 
(a ) on execution of a bond for payment of duty in 

the Territory ; or 
(b ) on payment of duty in the Territory . 
12 . Application to be made to the Commissioner . - ( 1) 
Any manufacturer or dealer desirous of exporting liquor, 
shall submit an application in Form E3 to the Commis 
sioner . 
(2 ) The application must specify : 

(a ) the name of the consignor, 
(b ) the name of the consignce, 
(c ) the description, quantity and strength of each 

kind of liquor to be exported , 
( d ) the route of export and the Check -post at the 

exit from the Territory . 
( 3 ) Every such application must be accompanied , by : 
( a ) a permit or licence from the appropriate Excise 

authority of the State or Union Territory to 
which the liquor is to bo exported authorising 

the import of the liquor, and 
(b ) either a duly executed special bond or a refer 

ence to the general bond in force , or document 
proving the payment of duty , or 
a receipt of challan for having paid in the Gov 
ernment Treasury the duty in respect of liquor 

to be exported . 
13. Procedure for export permit .- ( 1 ) If the 
application is found to be in order, the Commissioner 
shall issuo permit in Form E4 , in quadruplicate, spe 
cifying the game, quantity and strength of each kind of 
liquor. Onc copy of the permit shall be delivered to 
the exporter, second copy will be forwarded to the 
appropriate Excise Officer of the State or Union Terri 
tory to which the liquor is to be taken , the third will be 


sent to the Excise Inspector of the Taluka and the fourth 
will be retained for record . 

( 2 ) Within a reasonable time to be fixed by the Com 
missioner and specified in the bond or permit , as tho 
case may be, the exporter shall produce before the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner of the Union Territory , a 
copy of the import permit endorsed with a certificato 
signed by the appropriate Excise Officer of State or 
Union Territory into which the import is made certify 
ing the due arrival or otherwise of the liquor at its desti 
nation . 

14 . Extension of time. The Commissioner, on wſitten 
application , may extend for good and sufficient reasons 
the currency of the permit or bond for due arrival of 
the liquor at its destination . 

15 . Bond — when to he discharged . - ( 1 ) In the case 
of liquor exported under special hond , the Commissioner 
shall discharge the bond on receipt of the certificate 
mentioned in rule 13 ( 2 ) provided that none of the con 
ditions of the bond have been infringed . 

( 2 ) If the certificate is not received within the time 
mentioned in the bond or permit or if on receipt of the 
certificate it appears that any of the conditions of the 
bond have been infringed , the Commissioner shall forth 
with take the necessary steps to recover from the execu 
tant or his sureties the penalty , if any, due under the 
bond . 

16 . Particulars to be painted on cask . -- ( 1 ) On each 
bottle cask or other vessel containing Indian made 
foreign liquor there shall be legibly cut, painted or 
labelled : 

(i ) the name and mark of the distillery or brewery 

of the Territory ; 
( ii ) the number of the cask or other veggel and its 

capacity ; 
( iii ) the nature , quantity and strength of its content. 
( 2 ) Samples of the labels and markings shall be 
lodged with the Commissioner for his record , The 
labels of the bottle , cask or vessel of liquor for export 
clearly contain the words in red For Export . 
Execution of Bond and Payment of Fee 

17 . Execution of bonds.-- The bond to be executed 
hy the importer or exporter for payment of duty shall 
be either a general or a special hond in Form E5 Or E6 , 
as the case may be, with two sureties acceptable to the 
Commissioner, 

18 . Payment of tee. — The fee for import or export 
permit shall be paid in the form of court- fee stamps to 
be affixed on the application made therefor . 
Transport 

19 . Transport. - A permit under Section 5 shall be in 
Form E7. 
Possession 

20 . Permit for possession , - . ( 1 ) Any person desirous 
of obtaining a permit for the possession of Indian made 
foreign liquor under Section 8 , shall make an applica 
tion in Form E8 stating : 
( a ) the quantity required and the date on which it 

is to be purchased ; 
(b ) the occasion which renders the purchase neces 

sary ; 
(c ) the place where the liquor is to be kept and 

consumed . 
(2 ) The permit shall be granted in Form E9. 


( c ) at 


CHAPTER III 

PRIVATE BONDED WAREHOUSE 
21. Application for permit. -- ( 1 ) When any dealer de 
sires to have a private bonded warehouse he shall present 
a written application in Form E10 to the Commissioner 
giving therein the details of the location of the room or 
building to be utilised as warehouse and giving the 
sketch thereof. 

( 2 ) The warehouse shall have only one entrance with 
double lock system , one key of which shall be retained 
by the Head of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which 
the warehouse is situated and the other shall remain with 
the dealer . 


PART III - SEC. 3) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


159 


22 . Execution of bond and issue of permit. - When 
the above conditions are satisfied , the dealer shall cxe 
cute with the Commissioner a bond in Form E11 biod . 
ing himself to perform the conditions of the permit, 
with two sureties, The bond shall be for an amount not 
exceeding to one and half times the amount of the duty 
payable on the liquor deposited in the warehouse . There 
upon permit in Form E12 shall be issued by the Com 
missioner. 

23 . Use of the warehouse - - The warehouse shall be 
for the sole use of the dealer for warehousing Liquor 
manufactured or imported under bond. 

24 . Warehouse register . The dealer shall maintain a 
warehouse register in the form prescribed by the Com 
missioner under rule 120 , in which he shall enter on the 
same day full details of all liquor received and delivered 
in and from the warehouse . Likewise all the details re 
garding the liquor removed and the amount of duty paid 
shall be noted therein . The names and addresses of the 
dealers or the persons to whom they are sold shall also 
be mentioned therein . 

25 . Permit fee . The holder of the permit will save 
to pay in advance for each bonded warehouse a fee of 
Rs. 50 per year . 

26 . Cancellation of permit. - - The Commissioner may , 
in the manner indicated in Section 16 , cancel the permit 
for the warehouse , if tbe holder thereof is found to have 
committed a breach of the conditions and rules and upon 
such cancellation , all liquor warehouses therein must be 
removed as the Commissioner directs and no abatement 
of duty shall be made in respect of any such liquor for 
deficiency, quantity or strength , after notice of the can 
cellation has been given to the dealer . 

27 . Verification of liquor before warehousing - - All 
liquor brought for warehousing shall be produced to the 
officer in charge of the warehouse together with the per 
mit or certificate and it shall be checked in his presence ; 
thereupon the quantity and description of the liquor, 
marks and aumbers of the packages and the number and 
date of permit or certificate shall be entered in the ware 
house register, 

28 . Removal of liquor ,-- No liquor shall be removed 
from the warehouse except on payment of duty or when 
80 permitted by the Commissioner for removal to another 
warehouse or for export from the Territory . 

29 . How long the liquor may be kept in the ware 
house . Any liquor warehoused can be kept therein for 
a period of three years from the date on which it was 
first warehoused . 

30 . Payment of duty on liquor not accounted for , 
The dealer shall be liable to pay duty on any liquor not 
accounted for in the warehouse to the satisfaction of the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner . 

31. Prohibition of certain Acts . The warehouse 
permit holder or the warchouse keeper or any person in 
their employ shall not, 
( a ) after the approval of the warehouse make any 

alteration therein without the previous consent 

of the Commissioner , or 
( b ) warehouse in or remove from a warehouse any 

liquor otherwise than as provided by these 

rules , or 
( c ) privately remove or conceal any liquor either 

before or after it is warehoused . 


If the spirit imported is not sufficiently denatured it 
will be denatured afresh by the importer at his expenso 
in the presence of Excise Inspector. 
Export 

34 . Export. - Provision of rules 12 and 13 shall bo 
applicable mutatis mutandis for export of denatured 
spirit . 
Transport 

35 . Transport from one place to another.- - A permit 
for transport of denatured spirit under Section 5 shall 
be in Form E -7 . 
Possession 

36 . Permit for possession .- A permit for possession of 
debatured spirit by a person for private purposes in ex 
cess of the quantity prescribed under Section 8 shall be 
granted in Form E - 13 . 

37 . Possession and use for industrial purposes.- - 
Licence for the possession and use of denatured spirit 
for industrial purposes , for manufacturing varnishes, 
dyes, colours and the like, may be granted , on applica 
tion , by the Commissioner in such quantity as he may 
determine on consideration of the requirements of the 
applicant, on payment of a yearly fee of Rs. 50 . The 
licence shall be in Form E - 14 . 
Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 
Import 

38 . Application for permit.- ( 1 ) Any person holding 
liccace for manufacture of Indian made foreign liquor 
or for selling wholesale rectificd spirit or absolute alcohol 
or Regimental Units of the armed services of India or 
Government Departments , may import rectified spirit or 
absolute alcobol after obtaining a permit therefor from 
the Commissioner . 

(2 ) The manufacturers of Indian made foreign liquor 
may import rectified spirit or absolute alcobol under 
bond, but wholesale vendors thereof shall be permitted 
to import only on prepayment of duty . 

( 3 ) The provisions of rules 5 and 9 shall be appli 
cable mutatis mutandis for the application of permits , 
respectively , in respect of import under bond and on 
prepayment of duty . 

( 4 ) The duty paid in respect of rectified spirit or 
absolute alcohol sold for medical purposes by any licens 
ed vendor to the satisfaction of Commissioner shall be 
refunded , 
Export and Transport 

39. Export and transport - The provision of rules re 
garding export and transport of denatured spirit shall be 
applicable to the export and transport of rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol. 
Possession 

40 . Permit for possession . - - A permit for possession of 
rectified spirit or absolute alcohol under Section 8 shall 
be in Form E -13 . 


CHAPTER IV 
IMPORT, EXPORT, TRANSPORT AND POSSESSION or DENA 
TURED SPIRIT AND RECTIFIED SPIRIT OR ABSOLUTE 

ALCOFIOL 
Denatured Spirit 
Import 

32 . Application for periit. - - Any person holding a 
licence for selling denatured spirit wholesale or Regi 
mental Units of the armed services of India or Govern 
ment Departments , may import it into the Territory , 
only on payment of duty . The provision of rule 9 shall 
be applicable mutatis mutandis for issue of permit . 

33 . Procedure on arrival.- - On receipt of the consign 
ment the importer shall at once notify its arrival to the 
Excise Inspector of the Taluka in which his licensed pre 
mises are situated and shall allow him to check the con 
signment and to examine and test the contents or take 
sample thoreof for test. 


CHAPTER V 
MANUFACTURE OF INDIAN MADE FOREIGN LIQUOR 
41. Licence for establishment of distillery or bre 
wery .- ( 1 ) Any person desirous of obtaining a licence 
to establish and work a distillery or brewery for the pur 
pose of manufacturing Indian made foreign liquor shall 
apply to the Commissioner . 

The application shall be accompanied with a challan 
for having credited into a Government Treasury a sum 
of Rs. 50 and a plan of the building with the description 
of the situation of the stills , apparatus, vessels and other 
utensils, as the case may be, and the estimated capacity 
of production and the cost of the project. The Com 
missioner shall , if the Government approve , issuca 
licence in such Form as may be prescribed by the Com 
missioner . 

42 . Validity of licence. The licence shall be valid 
for one year and may be renewed on application by 
the Commissioner for a period not exceeding one year , 
if he is satisfied that sufficient progress has been made 
by the licensec to establish the distillery or brewery . If , 
within the currency of the licence, the licensce does not 
start work of manufacturing the liquor , the licence shall 
be cancelled . 


160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 


43 . Licence for manufacture.-- - The licensee before 
starting the manufacture of liquor for which the licence 
is issued , shall apply to the Commissioner for the licence 
for manufacture with a certificate from health officer 
that there is no objection to the work being carried on 
at the place, and a full description of the changes , if 
any , made either in the building or the plant shall be 
furnished . The Assistant Excise Commissioner or other 
officer duly authorised by him in this behalf shall inspect 
the plant and if he finds it according to the plan , shall 
forward the application to the Commissioner who shall 
issue licence for manufacture in Form E - 15 on payment 
of fee set forth in the Schedule . The licence may be 
renewed every year on payment of the fee due beforo 
the expiry of the currency of the licence . 


CHAPTER VI 
BOTTLINO & BLENDING OF LIQUOR 
53 . Conditions for licence . --- ( 1 ) No bottling of any 
liquor shall be permitted except under a licence issued 
by the Commissioner. 

( 2 ) The licence shall be granted only to persons hold 
ing a licence for sale of such liquor or to a licensed 
manufacturer thereof, on application to the Commis 
sioner , stating the nature of the operation be desires to 
perform and the premises where such operations are to 
be performed . 

( 3 ) The Commissioner shall issue the licence in Form 
E - 16 on payment of the fee set forth in the Schedule 
and it may be renewed every year on payment of fee 
before expiry of the currency of the licence . No licence 
feo shall be payable for bottling of country liquor where 
it is done without blending thereof. 

( 4 ) When any operations of bottling are to be carried 
on by a licensee , he shall give at least three days advance 
notice to the Head of Revenue Office in whose jurisdic 
tion the premises are situated . 
Blending of Country Liquor 

54 . Conditions for licence . Any licensed vendor of 
country liquor desirous of blending thereof shall apply 
for licence to tho Commissioner . The provisions of 
the rules regarding the bottling of liquor shall be appli 
cable to the blending of country liquor. 


44 . Noxious Materials not to be used . The materials 
to be used in distilling shall be of good quality, and no 
ingredients noxious to health shall be used in distillation 
or be put into the spirits stored in the distillery . 


45 . Supervision of distillery.-- The distillery or bre 
wery shall to under the immediato supervision of the 
inspecting officer appointed by the Commissioner for the 
purpose . 


46 . Accounts to be kept. - ( 1 ) Manufacturers shall 
keep regular account in the forms prescribed by the 
Commissioner and such accounts shall , at all times , be 
open for inspection by the inspecting officer or by any 
other officer of the Excise Department authorised in this 
behalf by the Commissioner, 

(2 ) Spirits in the distillery shall at all time be open 
to gauging and proof by any of the officers referred to 
in sub -rule ( 1 ) . 


47 . Distillers to account for deficiency in stock .. . 
An account shall be taken of the distillers stocks at such 
intervals, not exceeding three months, and in such man 
ser as the Assistant Exciso Commissioner may direct ; 
and the distillers shall pay such duty ay may be levied , 
from time to time, on all spirits which could not be 
accounted for, to the satisfaction of the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner , in excess of an allowance for wastages 
which may from time to time, be specifled by notifica 
tion in the Official Gazette . Wastage for the purpose of 
collection of duty on the excess as aforesaid shall be 
calculated at the end of every twelve months from the 
date on which a licence comes into force : 

Provided that, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner , or of such officer as he 
may appoint, that any deficiency in excess of the margin 
could not have been prevented by the exercise of proper 
care and precaution , the payment of duty on such defici 
ency may be waived . 


48 . Lights in Distilleries, etc . The use by the dis 
tillers or his servants of naked lights of any description 
within the distillery is prohibited . 


CHAPTER VII 

TREE TAPPING 
55. Conditions for tapping . ( 1 ) No coconut tree, 
date tree , cajuri or other palm tree shall be tapped 
unless a licence therefor has been obtained from the 
Head of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which the 
trees are situated , and the trees have been marked and 
numbered in the manner specified in rule 61. The tree 
tax may be paid in monthly instalments and the first 
instalment shall be paid in advance before the licence is 
issued . When the trees to be tapped belong to the Gov 
ernment, the corresponding tree rent shall be paid along 
with the first instalment of the tree tax . 

( 2 ) The tapping by a licensed tapper before the trees 
have been marked and numbered in the manner so speci 
fied , shall be deemed as a tapping without licence . How 
ever, in case if renewal of licence the tapping during the 
first two months without the trecs being marked and 
numbered , shall not constitute an offence . 

(3 ) The preparatory work and tapping of the trees 
non -marked and non -numbered during the first month of 
the licence shall not also constitute an offence. 

( 4 ) All expenses for marking and numbering the trees 
shall be borne by the Government. 

56 . Procedure for licence . - ( 1 ) Any tapper desiring 
to tap the trees and draw toddy therefrom shall fill in a 
declaration in Form E - 17, in triplicate , which shall be 
signed by him and countersigned by the owner of the 
trees or his nominee in token of his consent to trces 
belog tapped . No countersignature is necessary in respect of 
trees belonging to the Government. 

( 2 ) The Form shall contain the following parti 
culars - - 

(a ) Name and address of the toddy tapper; 
(b ) Name of the property in which the trees are 

situated as well as its registration number ; 
( c ) Number of trees to be tapped ; 
( d ) Period of licence ; 

( e ) Name of the owner of the trees. 
( 3 ) The declaration referred to in the preceding sub 
rulo shall be countersigned by the Excise Guard of the 
arca who shall fill in the main part of the challan in 
Form E -18 and hand it over to the tapper together with 
the declaration . Both the forms shall be presented by 
the tapper to the Taluka Revenue Office at least 8 days 
before the commencemont of the tapping. 

( 4 ) The Taluka Revenue Office on receipt of both 
the forms, shall after tallying one with the other, fill in 
the remaining parts of the challan in Form E - 18 and re 
turn to the tapper the part of the challan corresponding 
to tho first monthly instalment of the tax for the pay 
ment thereof in the Treasury . 


49 . Permanent Guard . - ( 1) There shall be a perma 
nent Excise Guard in the distillery or brewery , whose 
salary shall be credited into the Goverament Treasury 
by the owner of the distillery or brewery . 

( 2 ) If a distillery or brewery is established at a place 
where suitable quarters for the Guard of the distillery or 
brewery are not available in the neighbourhood or are 
not available for rent at rcasonable rates, the manufac 
turor shall provide quarters to such Guard with such 
accommodation as the Commissioner may approve . 


50 . Liquor to be gauged and proved before renoval. 
No liquor shall be removed from the distillery or bre 
wery until it has been gauged and proved by the inspect 
ing officer. The gauging of liquor may be made either 
by actual measurement or by weighment. 

51, Removal of liquor. -- -No liquor shall be removed 
from the distillery or brewery otherwise than for ware 
housing or from any warehouse except on payment of 
duty or , when so permitted by the Commissioner, for 
export from the Territory . 

52 . Sale by manufacturers - The licence for manufac 
ture of Indian made foreign liquor shall cover the right 
to sell it only to licensed wholesale vendors. No addi 
tional Licence for wholesalo salos shall be necessary . 


PART III — Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NÓVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


161 


formed accordingly in order to cancel the numbers 
marked on the respective trees . Fresh application for 
licence shall not be accepted from the tapper until the 
arrears of tree-tax together with the finc are paid . 

( 3 ) If any tree belonging to the Government dies 
from over - tapping or careless tapping, either during the 
currency of the licence or within six months after its 
expiry , the tapper shall be liable to pay such compensa 
tion as may be fixed by the Commissioner. The amount 
of compensation shall not exceed Rs. 75 for a coconut 
tree and Rs. 15 for other palm -trecs, 


( 5 ) On payment of the first instalment of the tax , a 
licence in Form E - 19 shall be issued by the Head of the 
Taluka Revenue Office, and handed over to the tapper 
together with the two copies of the declaration in Foim 
E -17 . One of the copies shall be given to the Excise 
Guard of the area and the other kept by the tapper in 
his possession . 

(6 ) The licences issued shall be entered in serial 
order in a register in such form as may be prescribed 
by the Commissioner. 

( 7 ) All the challans issued during the day shall be 
entered in a daily sheet in Form E - 20 and its total 
amount shall be checked with the total sum received in 
the Treasury . 

57 . Substitution of trecs during the currency of 
licence . - When a tree dies or does not produce toddy 
during the currency of licence , it may be substituted by 
another one, under a fresh declaration in Form Model 
E - 17 in which the cause of the substitution shall be indi 
cated . The procedure for filling in and furnishing of 
declaration shall be the same as prescribed in sub -rules 
( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of rule 56 . The markings and the 
numbers on the trees so substituted shall be the same 
as painted on the trees substituted for . The markings 
and the numbers on the trees substituted for sball be 
cancelled with diagonal lines . 

58 . Abandoning of tapping - - ( 1 ) If the tapper desires 
to abandon the tapping totally or parţially during the 
currency of the licence, he shall follow the same proce 
dure as prescribed in sub -rules ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of rule 
56 , filling in a declaration in Form E - 17 at least 8 days 
before the tapping is intended to be abandoned . No 
countersignature of owner is necessary therein . 

(2 ) When the tapping has been abandoned totally or 
partially , the respective challan in Form E - 18 and the 
licence sball be cancelled . If the tapping is abandoned 
partially , new challan in Form E - 18 shall be filled in for 
the payment of the remaining instalments of the tax and 
the licence altered accordingly . 

59. Licence to tap trees in addition to trees already 
licensed. When the tapper desires to tap trces in addi. 
tion to the trees for which licence has been already issu 
ed , he shall fill in a further declaration in Form E - 17 
and an additional licence shall be issued after observing 
the procedure set forth in sub -sules ( 1 ) to (5 ) of rule 


Manufacture of Country Liquor from Toddy 

65. Erititlement to manufacture. — Only licensed toddy 
tappers are entitled to manufacture country liquor from 
toddy drawn from the trees for which he holds the 
licence . 

66 . Application for licence. ( 1 ) The tapper desirous 
to manufacture liquor shall declare in Form E - 17 the 
number of stills ho proposes to work , 

( 2 ) The licence fee for manufacture shall be paid 
together with the first instalment of the tree -tax and the 
licence for tapping shall refer to the number of stills he 
is licensed to work . 

(3 ) A tapper having licence for tapping trees in two 
adjoining Talukas, shall declare in Form E -17 in which 
Taluka he shall work the stills . 

( 4 ) The licensee shall not work any still unless he 
declares to the Excise Guard of the area , the exact places 
where he intends to manufacture and store the liquor. 

67 . Strength of liquor , - The strength of liquor shall 
not exceed 20 % under proof. The manufacturer shall 
not store the liquor manufactured by him in his residen 
tial premises , unless under a permit granted , on applica 
tion , by the Head of Revenue Office . 

The licence for manufacture of liquor covers the right 
to sell it , but the liquor can be sold only to the licensed 
liquor vendors or licensed buyers, on payment of duty . 

68 . Keeping of register - The licensee shall keep a 
register in which he shall give the following parti 
culars : 

( 1) Quantity of juice produced ; 
( 2 ) Quantity of juice utilised for manufacture of 

liquor ; 
( 3 ) Quantity of juice used for other purposes; 
( 4 ) Quantity and strength of liquor produced ; 
( 5 ) Quantity of liquor sold ; and 

(6 ) Name and address of the buyer. 
69. Removal of liquor. - - The tapper shall not remove 
or transport liquor from the place of storage without 
transit permit in Form 21 issued by the Excise Guard of 
the area and unless the duty is paid . 


56 . 


60 . Renewal of licence.-- - For renewal of licence, the 
tapper shall follow the same procedure as prescribed in 
sub -rules ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of rule 56 , filling in a de 
claration in Form E - 17 at least 8 days before the expiry 
of the licence. 

61. Marking and numbering of the trees.-- - The trees 
to be tapped shall be marked and numbered by the Ex 
cise Guard of the area with the numbers mentioned in 
the respective licence . The numbers shall be villagewise 
and painted every year , 

62. The number of trees that can be tapped by a per 
son when the toddy is used to be drunk as such . — When 
a person desires to tap date -trees or cajuris to draw toddy 
therefrom for his and his family s own use to drink as 
such , the number of trees for which licence is to be 
granted shall not exceed five and shall be fixed by the 
Head of Revenue Office in accordance with the number 
of members of the tapper s family . 
Tree-Rent 

63 . Rent.- When the trees sought to be tapped belong 
to the Government, a trcc rent shall be paid by the 
tapper at the rate of Rs, 2 for coconut tree and Re. I for 
other trees per each month of tapping. 
Penalties 

64 . Fines. - ( 1 ) The fino imposed under Section 30 , 
for tapping the trees or drawing toddy therefrom without 
licence , shall not exceed five rupees per trec and for each 
month of tapping. 

( 2 ) If any instalment of the tree tax is not paid 
within the month in which it is duc, the tapper shall be 
liable to pay a penalty of Re . 1 for each tree in addi 
tion to the tax due . If he fails to pay the fine and the 
tax due up to 15th day of the next following month the 
licence shall, unless the Commissioner grants an exten 
sion of time, he deemed as cancelled on the next follow 
ing day and the Excise Guard of the area shall be in 


CHAPTER VIII 
MANUFACTURE OF LIQUOR FROM CASHEW JUICE 
70 . Extraction of juice. - ( 1 ) The juice from the 
Cashew fruit shall be extracted only under the authority 
of a licence in Form E -22 granted by the Head of 
Revenue Office of the Taluka in which the cashew 
groves are situated . 

( 2 ) The application for the licence shall contain the 
following particulars : 

(i) Name of the owner or the tenant of the cashew 

groves ; 
(ii ) Name of the groves and their situation ; 
( iii ) Probable quantity of the juice he expects to 

produce . 
71. Mode of selection of licensee.--- The licence for 
the manufacture of liquor from cashew juice shall be 
granted on the basis of an auction to be held in the fol 
lowing manner : 

( 1 ) Every year there shall be an auction of the right 
to manufacture liquor from cashew juice in relation to 
any zone or zones , as between bidders who undertako 
to manufacture the maximum quantity of liquor from 
that zone. 


162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


[PART III - Sec . 3 


74 . Warehousing of liquor. -- All stills of each zono 
shall be established and worked at only one place which 
shall be of easy access and where a house or a room is 
available ncarby for warehousing the liquor. The waro 
house shall be under double lock system , one key of 
which shall be retained by the licensee and the other by 
the Exciso Guard of the area . All the liquor as soon as 
produced shall be removed to the warehouse. 


(2 ) The licence shall be granted to the bidder who 
undertakes to manufacture the highest quantity of liquor 
of 20 per cent under proof or corresponding quantity of 
lesser strength . 

( 3 ) Every bidder shall deposit, as soon as may be, 
after his bid is accepted , a security for an amount cor 
responding to 10 per cent of the total amount of duty 
payable on the quantity of liquor undertaken to be pro 
duced by him . 

( 4 ) Where the quantity of liquor produced by the 
licensee falls short of the maximum undertakon to 
be produced by him , the security amount or such part 
of it, as may be determined by the Commissioner shall 
be forfeited to the Government unless the Government, 
for reasons to be recorded in writing , waives tho for 
feiture. 

(5 ) The bidder shall also deposit in the Treasury 
the amount of duty payable on the quantity of liquor 
undertaken by him to be produced . The Commissioner 
may , for reasons to be recorded in writing, permit 
payment of duty in instalments not exceeding four . 


75 . Payment of duty . - The duty deposited shall be 
adjusted towards the amount of duty on liquor actually 
produced and when the amount of the duty assessed on 
such liquor excecds the duty depositcu , the licensee shall 
pay into the Treasury the amount of such excess over 
the duty deposited . If, on tho other hand , the duty 
deposited exceeds tho duty so asscesed , the excess shall 
be refunded . 

76 , Buying or selling of juice. - ( 1 ) The licensee 
shall be bound to buy the cashew juice for the price 
fixed by the Government at the place where he is 
authorised to work tho stills for the manufacture of 
liquor. If he refuses to buy the juice or delays the 
buying in consequence of which the juice is damaged 
beyond its use for distillation , he shall be ordered by 
the Assistant Excise Commissioner to pay the price of 
the juice to the owner thereof and pay into a Govern 
ment treasury , as a penalty , a sum not excecding 
Rs. 100 / - within 8 days from the date of the order, 
failing which the Commissioner shall cancel the licence 
and contiscate the liquor in store . The price of the 
juice shall be paid to the owner thereof from the proceeds 
of the confiscated liquor. 

When the licence is cancelled in such cases , the Com 
missioner shall dispose of such zones for the distillation 
of liquor in the remaining period at his discretion subject 
to approval of the Government. 

(2 ) If the owner of the juice mixes or permits to 
be mixed with the juice any substance or water to 
augment its quantity , he shall be liable to a penalty not 
exceeding Rs. 50 / - to be levied by the Head of the 
Revenue Office. In such case the licensed manufacturer 
may refuse to buy the juice . 

( 3 ) The owner or tenant of cashew grovas is not 
bound to extract the juice from the cashew fruit, but 
once he extracts juice therefrom he is bound to sell it 
to the licensed manufacturer of the zone for the price 
fixed by the Government , unless he declares to and is 
authorised by the Head of the Revenue Office to use it 
for purposes other than the distillation of liquor. The 
breach of the provision of this rule shall render the 
owner of the juice liable to a penalty not exceeding 
Rs, 100 / - to bc levied by the Head of the Revequo 
Office . 


72 . Procedure for auction . _ _ ( 1 ) A notice announcing 
the hour and the date on which the auction shall be held 
shall be published in the Government Gazette and in 
local newspapers at least 15 days before thc date fixed 
for auction . 

( 2 ) The auction shall be held before a Committee 
consisting of : 

(i) the Commissioner ; 
( ii) the Assistant Excise Commissioner; and 
( iii ) the Excise Officer , 
In the absence of any member , the Commissioner shall 
nominate the officer who shall substitute for the absentee 
member. 

When the Commissioner is absent the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner shall takс his place. 

( 3 ) For the purposes of the auction , all the cashew 
groves shall be grouped into zones and the minimum 
quantity of liquor to be produced from cach zone nay 
be fixed if the Commissioner considers it necessary . 

( 4 ) No bidder shall be admitted to the auction unless 
he makes a deposit, as earnest money, of the amount zot 
exceeding Rs, 100 / -, before the commencement of tho 
auction for each zone. At the close of the auction the 
deposits made by the unsuccessful bidders shall be 
returned to them . 

( 5 ) If no bidder appears for the first auction or the 
offer is not accepted for the reasons specified in the next 
succeeding sub - rule , the auction shall be held for a 
second time after due notice has been published in the 
newspapers at least 8 days before the date fixed for auc 
tion . Thereafter, if the zones still remain unbidded . 
they shall be disposed of by tender or otherwise at the 
descretion of the Commissioner subject to approval of 
the Government. 

(6 ) The Committeo conducting thc auction may at 
its discretion , refuse to accept tho bid of any person 
on the ground that it is too low , or that such person has 
been convicted by a criminal Court or has previously 
been guilty of a breach of the conditions of a contract 
under the Act. 

(7 ) If the highest bid is accepted by the Committee 
it shall be recorded and the signature of the bidder 
taken on the bidders list in token of his offer of that 
bid . No bid shall be allowed thereafter, 

( 8 ) On failure of any successful bidder to comply 
with the provisions of the preceding sub - rules, thu 
deposit made by him shall be forfeited and new auction 
shall be held after due notice has been published in the 
newspapers at least five days before the date fixed for 
auction . Any loss caused to the Government by reason 
of the fresh auction shall be recoverable from the bidder 
as an arrear of land revenue , 


. 


77. Diversion of liquor from one zone to the other .- - 
The transport or removal of the cashew juice produced 
in the arca of one zone to the arca of the other zone is 
strictly prohibited . The breach of the provision of this 
rule shall render the owner of the juice liable to a 
penalty not exceeding Rs. 1007. to be levied by the Head 
of the Revenue Ofice . 


78 . Keeping of register. - ( 1 ) The licensed manu 
facturer shall keep a register containing the following 
particulars : 

( i) Name of the cashew grove , if any ; 
( ii ) Name of the owner or tenant of the cashcw 

grove ; 
( iii ) Registration number of the grove ; 
(iv ) Quantity of cashew juice received from cashew 

grove; 
( v ) Quantity and strength of liquor produced in 

respect of each grove . 
( 2 ) Thc register shall be submitted to the respective 
Taluka Revenue Office by the licensce not later than 
the end of June of the year for which the licence is 
granted . The breach of this rulo , shall render the licenses 
liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 100 / - to be levied 
by the Head of the Revenue Office . 

79 . Utensils , measures and testing instrument. The 
licensed manufacturer shall possess all the utensils 
necessary for distillation including « alcoholometer of 
Gay -Lussac and measure of litres and its multiples. The 
breach of this rulc shall render the licensee liable to a 
penalty not exceeding Rs. 100 / - to be lovied by tho Hoad 
of Revenue Office . 


73 . Licence for nianufaciure of liquor After the 
duty has been deposited , the successful bidder shall dec 
Iare within five days therefrom to the Head of the res 
pectivc Revenue Office the number of stills and the place 
where he shall work them . On payment of licence fec 
for the working of the stills and on approval of the 
place where he shall work them , the Head of Revenue 
Office shall grant him a licence in Form E 23 . 


PART III — Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


163 


( 5 ) When the business is started in the course of the 
second semester only half of the annual fee shall be pay 
able . 

(6 ) The Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that the 
financial conditions of licensce so requires , authorise the 
retail vendors to pay the fee in four equal instalments , each 
in the first month of each quarter of the financial year . 


80 . Strength of liquor. - The strength of liquor pro 
duced shall not exceed 20 % under proof . 

81 . To whom the manufacturer can sell . — The licence 
for manufacture covers the right to sell the liquor only 
to licensed liquor vendors or licensed buyers . 

82. Register of sale. — The licensee shall keep also 
a register of sale in which he shall enter the name and 
address of the buyer, quantity and strength of liquor sold 
and the date on which sale took place , 

83 . Removal of liquor - No liquor shall be removed 
from the warehouse or transported therefrom unless 
under a transit permit issued by the Excise Guard of 
the area. 

84 . Disposal of liquor. - The licensed manufacturer 
shall dispose of the liquor stored in the warehouse 
before the end of December of the year for which the 
licence has been granted , unless he obtains licence or 
permit for sale or possession as the case may be . 

85 . Licence for manufacture of liquor from juice of 
sugar -cane, pineapples, etc . - - The licence for manufac 
ture of liquor from juice of sugar -cane, pineapple, etc . 
or any other fruit or raw material shall be granted by 
the Commissioner on such terms or conditions as he may 
specify subject to approval of the Government. 


CHAPTER IX 
IMPORT, EXPORT, TRANSPORT AND PossessION OF COUNTRY 

LIQUOR 

Import or Export 
86 . Import or Export of country liquor. - A licence to 
import or export country liquor into or from the Territory 
shall be in Form E2. 

87 . Application for permit. - When any person desires 
to import or export country liquor into or from the Terri 
tory , he shall present a written application to the Commis 
sioner containing mutatis mutandis the particulars prescribe 
od for the import or export, as the case may be , of Indian 
made foreign liquor . The permit may be granted if there 
are no reasons to refuse the same. 

Transport 
88 . Transport of country liquor. - - A permit for transport 
of country liquor under section 5 shall be granted io 
Form E7 . 

89 . Permit for possession beyond limit of retail sale . 
( 1 ) Any person desirous of obtaining a permit for the 
possession of country liquor under section 8 shall make an 
application in Form E8 stating : 
(a ) the quantity required and tho date on which it 

is to be purchased : 
(b ) the occasion which ronders the purchase neces 

sary ; 
( c ) the place where the liquor is to be consumed . 
( 2 ) Tho permit shall be granted in Form E9 . 


91. Period of licence and its renewal. - Licences for sale 
other than occasional licences shall ordinarily be granted for 
threc years ending with the third financial year . The 
application for renewal shall be made within 15 days before 
the expiry of the licence . No sanction of the Commis 
sioner is required for the renewal of licence . In the case 
of renewal the first instalment shall be paid in advance 
before the licence is renewed . 

92 . Occasional licences Occasional licences for the 
retail sale of Indian made forcign liquor shall be granted 
only for stalls in connection with public entertainments 
of a temporary nature and such other public gatherings . 
The licences shall be issued by the Head of the Revenue 
Office in whose jurisdiction the stalls are established , on 
payment of the respective fee fixed in the Schedule . 
Licences for Wholesale and Retuil Sale of Denatured Spirit 

and Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 
93 . Licence for wholesale and retail sale . — Licence for 
wholesale or retail sale of denatured spirit and rectified 
spirit or absolute alcohol shall be issued by the Head 
of Revenue Oflice of the Taluka in which the premises 
of the vendor are situated with the previous sanction of 
the Commissioner . The rules 90 and 91 mutatis mutan 
dis shall be applicable in respect of application for licence 
and payment of the fec thereof. The licences for whole 
sale or retail sale of rectifled spirit or absolute alcohol 
shall be granted only to chemists and druggists . 

94 . Bottling.-- The licence for wholesale sale shall cover 
right to bottle denatured or rectified spirit or absolute 
alcohol. The provision of rule 53 ( 4 ) shall be applicable 
for the bottling thercof, 

95 . Limit of retail sale . The limit of retail sale of 
denatured and rectificd spirit or absolute alcohol to an 
individual for private purposes shall not exceed respec 
tively , six and two quart bottles . 

General Provisions 
96 . Prohibition of sale .- - ( 1 ) No licensed vendor and 
no person in the employ of a vendor and acting on his 
behalf shall sell or deliver any liquor : 
( a ) to drivers and conductors of motor buses, taxies 

and lorries, when on duty , or 
( b ) to persons known or believed to be intoxicated . 

or . 
( c ) to persons known or suspected to be about to 

take part in a riot or disturbance of the public 

place . 
( 2 ) No liguor shall be sold in exchange of any com 
modity or article or any other goods. 

( 3 ) No person shall pay salary , totally or partially , to 
any worker or labourer in form of liquor. 

97 . Warehouses for licensed vendors . - -No licensed 
vendor shall establish warehouse for storage of liquor at 
places other than the premises on which he is licensed to 
sell liquor, without the permit issued by the Head of 
Revenue Office of the Taluka in which such premises are 
situated . No warehouse other than bonded warehouse 
shall be permitted to establish in Taluka other than that 
in which such premises are situated . No warchouse shall 
have any connecting link with residential premises. 

98. Prohibition of employment by the licensee. - No 
licensed veodor shall employ on his licensed premises , 
persons : 

(a ) Under the age of 18 years, or 

(b ) Suffering an infectious disease. 
99 . Days and hours during which licensed premises may 
he kept open . - ( 1 ) The licensed premises for sale of 
liquor may he kept open only 9 hrs, to 21 hrs . The retail 
vendors may be authorised by the Head of Revenue Office 
to keep open their premises up to 23 hrs. on payment of 
additional licence fee , set forth in the Schedule : 

Provided that the Government may allow the sale of 
liquor after the prescribed hours for special reasons or 
in special casas , 


CHAPTER X 

LICENCES FOR SALE 
Licences for Wholesale and Retail Sale of any Liquor other 
than Denatured and Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 

90 . Application and procedure for licence . - ( 1 ) Any 
person desirous of obtaining licence for wholesale or retail 
sale of any liquor other than denatured and rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol shall present an application to the Com 
missioner stating the particulars of the place and the pre 
mises where he intends to start the business , the distance 
between those premises and those of other licensed liquor 
vendors or temples or schools . 

( 2 ) When the Commissioner . after making such inquiry 
and hearing such authorities as he thinks necessarv , is satis 
fled that there is no objection , he sball sanction the issue 
of licence . 

( 3 ) On receint of the sanction , the Head of the Reve 
nue Office in whose furisdiction the premises of the appli 
cant are situated shall issue licence in Form E24 for 
wholesale and in Form E25 for retail sale , 

( 4 ) The licence fee set forth in the Schedule shalt he 
paid hv the licensee in two equal instalments , first, before 
fasue of licence and the second in the first month of the 
second semester of the financial year. 


164 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) [PART III - Sec . 3 

- - - - - - 
( 2 ) The vendor shall keep closed his licensed premises Provided that a perishable article or an animal in res 
for sale of liquor other than the Hotels, Restaurants and pect of which no proper arrangement can be made for 
Clubs, one day in every weck at his choice after tho custody may be sold by public auction or disposed off , 
approval by the Head of Revenue Ofice. The day of immediately , as the case may be, and the sale proceed 
closure shall be indicated in the licence. 

shall be credited to the Government, refund being made 
100 . Licensed premises for sale of liquor shall not have 

thereof in case the appeal is admitted , 
connecting link with residential premises. - No licensed 

Rewards 
premises for sale of liquor shall have any connecting link 108 . Remarks - ( 1 ) In any case in which a penalty or 
with residential premises. 

confiscation has been adjudged under the Act , a reward 
101, Accounts of transactions. Every licensed vendor not exceeding half of the sale proceeds of the liquor and 
shall keep true account of the daily transactions stating : other articles confiscated plus the amount of the fine im 
(a ) Quantity and strength of liquor purchased or 

posed , if any, shall be granted in such proportions as 

the Commissioner may think fit to any person or persons 
taken into the premises for sale ; 

who may have contributed to the conviction of the offender 
(b ) Quantity and strength of liquor sold or delivered or to the confiscation of the property so seized : 
or removed ; 

Provided always that aggregate amount of the reward 
(c ) Balance at the end of each month . 

thus granted in each case by the Commissioner shall not 

exceed Rs. 507 -. 
102 . Persons debarred from holding licences without 
the previous sanction of the Government.- - Save with the Reward exceeding Rs. 50 / - will be granted by the Gov 
express permission in writing of the Government 

ernment, 

( 2 ) The Commissioner may incur at his discretion an 
( 1 ) No person holding or having an interest in a 

expenditure not exceeding Rs. 25 / - in each case for the 
licence for the manufacture, sale or supply of foreign or 

employment of informers or for any other purposc con 
Indian made foreign liquor in a Taluka may hold or 

nected with the prevention or detection of any offence under 
possess any interest in a licence for the retail sale of 

the Act. 
country liquor in the same Taluka , 

( 3 ) Where substantive sentences of imprisonment are 
(2 ) No person shall hold or have an interest in two 

passed by Magistrates , and no fine or confiscations are rca 
or more shops for the wholesale or retail sale of the same 

lized , rewards may be paid according to the importance 
kind of liquor in the same city or town or village , and 

of the case in the discretion of the Government. 
( 3 ) No person holding a licence for sale of foreign or 
Indian made foreign liquor may hold licence for sale of 

the remainder being distributed to the persons who actually 
country liquor in the same premises and vice -versa . 

co - operated in the seizure or arrest. 
103 . Sign - board . -- A sign - board shall be affixed to the 

( 5 ) If there is no informer, tho whole toward should 
front of every licensed premises for sale of liquor showing 

go to the persons who actually co -operated in the seizure 
tho nature and number of licence, stating clearly whether 

or arrest. 
the premises are licensed to sell foreign or Indian made 
foreign liquor or country liquor, The licence shall be 

(6 ) No reward shall be granted for officers above the 
hung in a conspicuous place within the premises , 

rank of Superintendent of Excise . The reward or its share 

allotted to Government servants shall be distributed to 
104 , Transfer of shop and licence.- ( 1 ) No liquor vend 

them in proportion to their salaries , 
shop shall be transferred from onc licensed premises to 
gother premises unless under the permission granted by 

Overtime 
the Commissioner . 

109 . Overtime fee . When a manufacturer or a dealer 
( 2 ) No licence for sale of liquor shall be transferred by applies for services of an officer to supervise the removal 
the licensec to other person unless under the permission from or bringing into warehouse any liquor or to check 
granted by the Commissioner. 

and verify consignment of liquor on arrival thereof in his 
( 3 ) When the permission to transfer the shop or the 

licensed premises , on Sundays and public holidays and 

between 18 hrs. and 10 hrs, on other days , overtime fee 
licence is granted , the description of new premises or the 

shall be charged for such services at the rate of overtime 
name of transferree , as the case may be, shall be noticed 
in the licence . 

allowance such officer is entitled to under service rules . 

110 , Application for overtime. The application shall be 
CHAPTER XI 

made to Head of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which 

the warehouse or licensed premises are situated at least 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Disposal of the Confiscated Articles 

roquired . 
105 . Confiscated articles to be sent to Excise Officer . 

111. Payment of overtime fee . — After completion of 
When anything is confiscated under the Act, the same shall 

overtime work , the manufacturer or dealer who applics 
be made over to the Head of Revenue Office concerned . 

for services , shall endorse the actual hours of attendance 
106 . Disposal of articles, goods, things and conveyances. 

or service on the report the officer shall submit to the 
- ( 1 ) AU articles or goods or things or conveyances of the 

Head of Revenue Office concerned , and shall, thereafter, 
valuo exceed Rs. 100 / -, confiscated under the Act by 

pay into the Government Treasury the amount of the over 
order of a Magistrate or Commissioner or any other off 

time fee due . 
cor empowered by the Government in that behalf, as the 
case may be , shall be sold by public auction by the Head The contingency bill for the payment of overtime allow 
of Revenue Office concerned . 

ance to the officer concerned shall be accompanied with 
( 2 ) Al articles or goods or things of the value not ex 

the report and the receipt of challan of the overtime fee 
ceeding Rs. 5 / - shall be disposed off by the Head of Reve 

paid into the treasury . 
auc Office as he may think fit. 

Refund of Excess Duty Paid 
( 3 ) All articles, goods, things or conveyance of the 112 . Application for refund .-- -Application for refund of 
value of Rs, 5 / - to Rs. 100 / - shall be disposed off by the duty paid shall be made to the Commissioner in which the 
Head of Revenue Office in such manner as the Commis particulars of the claim shall be clearly specified . When 
sioner may direct. 

the Commissioner is satisfied that a refund is due, he 
( 4 ) The galo by auction or otherwise of liquor, stills 

shall issue a refund voucher and hand it over to the dealer 
And other appliances or materials for distillation shall be for encashment at the Government treasury . 
made only to licensed dealer or manufacturers of liquor, 

Check - posts 
as the case may be. 

113 , Establishment of Check - posts . - ( 1 ) To check the 
(5 ) The proceeds of the sale or disposal shall be credit import and cxport of liquor, Check -posts shall be set up at 
ed to the Governmcat, 

such places as may be found necessary by the Commis 
107 . Sale or disposal to be deferred pending an appeal.- - sioner . 
The sale or other disposal of anything confiscated under (2 ) A Supervisor or an Excise Guard shall be in charge 
the Act shall be deferred till the period of appeal against of the Check -post. 
the order of confiscation has expired, or, if an appeal has 

( 3 ) All vehicles shall stop at the Check -post and may 
been made to the knowledge of the officer concerned proceed further only after clearance is given therefor by 
against such order, then until the appeal is disposed off : the Officer in charge of such Check -post, 


only 


Pliances auction of 


PARI 111 - Src . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887 ) 


165 


FORM E 1 
(See Rule 5) 


- 


- 


- 


Control of the Adininistration and Powers of Officers 

114 . Control of the Administration under the Act. - ( 1 ) 
Subject to the directions of the Government, the Com 
missioner shall have control of all other officers exercis 
ing functions under the Act . 

( 2 ) The Assistant Excise Commissioner, subject to the 
directions of the Commissioner shall control all officers 
subordinate to him . 

( 3 ) The Superintendent of Excise shall control the Ins 
pectors , Supervisors and Guards subject to the control and 
direction of the Commissioner and Assistant Excise Com 
missioner , 


Court fec 

Stamp 
Rs. 10 / 

- . - - - 
Address in full 

Application for permit for Import / Transport of Indian made 
foreign liquors / rectifiod spirit /denatured spirit /country liquor. 

Date . 


Power of Oficers 


115 . Delegation of powers hy the Coniniissioner. The 
Commissioner may delegate his powers to the following 
oxtent, namely , 

( 1 ) To tho Assistant Excise Commissioner, Head of 
Revenus Office , Inspectors and Excise Guards , power to 
issue permits for transport of liquor or for possession of 
liquor in excess of quantity prescribed in section 8 . 

( 2 ) To Assistant Excise Commissioner and the Head of 
the Revenue Oflice , power to cancel licence if any fee or 
duty payable by the holder thereof be not duly paid . 

( 3 ) To Assistant Excise Commissioner , power to require 
from manufacturers and licensed vendor of liquor to be 
equipped with such measures, weights and instruments as 
he may direct. 

( 4 ) To Head of Revenue Office, power to permit sale 
of liquor and execution of bond as prescribed in sub - section 
3 of section 21, with two securities acceptahle to him , 


To , 

Tho Excise Commissioner, 

Panjim , 
Sir , 

Ploase permit mo/us to import/ transport, under bond /pre 
payment of duty , the liquor described below from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * by soa /rail/road 
via Chock -Postat . . . . . 
Description No. of Bulk Proof Strength 
of liquor cases Litros Litres 
ľ hereby enclose the treasury receipt No. . . . . . . . . . . dated 

.. . . . . . . ...for the cxcisc duty of Rs. . . .. . . . . 
on the aforesaid quantity . 

Yours faithfully . 
* Namo or situation of the bonded warchouso or of tho licensed 
premises , in this Union Territory . 

(Delete the letters and words not applicable ). 


YA 


FORME 2 


116 . Powers and duries of officers.--- ( 1 ) All Excise Offi 
cers of the Union Territory not below the rank of Excise 
Inspector may crecise the powers conferred by section 
23, 24 , 25 and 27 . 

Provided that nower to seize and detail any liquor 
or article or search any person , vessel, vehicle , animal or 
package under section 25 , may be exercised at the Check 
post by the Supervisor or the Excise Guard in charge of 
such Check -post. 

( 2 ) All Exciso Officers of the Union Territory including 
Excise Guards may exercise tho powers mentioned in sec 
tion 26 . 


( See Rulo 5 (3 )] 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Permit No. 

Pormit for import under bond / on prepaymont of duty of Indian 
mado foreign liquor /denatured spirit rectified spirit country 
liquor . 


To . 


The Excise Officer, 
Shri/Sarvashri.. .. . . .. . . 

. . . . . isare horoby 
authorised to import " Under Bond " / on prepayment of duty 
tho liquor described below :: - 


117. Certificate under sub- section ( 2 ) of Section 25. — A 
certificate to he given under suh -section ( 2 ) of Section 25 . 
shall be in Form E 26. 


1. Quantity : 
Description No. of 

of liquor cases 


Bulk 
Litros 


Proof 
Litros 


Strength 


118 . Paynient of dres under the Act and the Rules. The 
payment of duty , fees, penalties and other dues under 
the Act and these rules shall ho made into the appropriate 
Government Treasury hy challan in Form E 27. 

119. Execution of the hond . — When any hond or agrce 
ment prescribed hy the Act is to be executed , it shall be 
accented on hehalf of the Government either by the Com 
missioner or by the person specifically authorised hv him 
in this hehalf. 


Fornis 


2 . From . . . . . . . 
3. Route :-- by sca /rail/road viu check -Post at . . . . . . . . 

4 . This permit will be valid for ninety days from this date 
and should bo carried along with the consigament. The con 
signment should not be broken in bulk whilo in transit and should 
bo importod in one lot. 

The consignincat should be oponed only in the prosenco of 
an Excisc Officer and passed for warehousing /consumption after 
verification . 

5 . Bond No . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
6 . The Exciso Duty of Rs. . . . . . . . , 

. . . . . . . . . on tho con 
signment has been paid into the Governinent Treasury under 
Chalan No . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . dated . . . . . . . . 

7. Station . . . . . . . . .. 
8 . Dato . , . , . , 


120. Formis. — The Commissioner may prescribe forms 
for any licence or permit to he issued or any application or 
statement to he submitted or any account to be maintained , 
otherwise than those provided under these rules and may . 
similarly , prescribe forms for registers to be maintained 
and records to he kept by Excise Officers for the purnose 
of carrying out the provisions of the Act and these 
Rules . 


121, -- Transitional rates at which duty is to be levied . — 
Until provisions are made in the Rules , the duty to he 
levied on liquor shall be at the rates set forth in the Sche 


Signature and designation of 
the Issuing Authority 
( Excise Commissioner ) 


dule . 


By order and in the name of the Lieutenant Governor 
of Goa , Daman and Diu . 


Copy to :- - 

(1) Excise Chock -post at 
(2) Exciso Ottoor of M /s. 
(3 ) Excise Commissioner to the Governmont of 

(Striko out whichover notapplicablo) 


T . B . NAGARAJAN 

Finance Secretary 


3286I/65 


166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


(PART III - SEC , 3 


The above bonded obligor (s) boing permitted to import 


FORME 3 
(See Rulo 12 ) 


Court foe 
Stamp 
Rs. 10 / 


Addross in full 
APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR EXPORT OF INDIAN 

MADE FOREIGN LIQUOR / COUNTRY LIQUOR 


romove 
from timo to timo conditional on the provisions of the Exciso 
Duty Act, 1964, and the Rulos inade thereundor being observed , 
(description of liquor ) without payment of duty from the 
rost of India to Goa 
bonded warohouse situated at . . . . . . . . for export to . . . . . . 

The condition of this bond is that if tho obligor (s) and his/ 
their logal reprosentativos shall observe all the provisions of 
tho Excise Duty Act, 1964, and tho Rules made theroundor , in 
respect of liquor so removed . 

importod 


Date . . 


To, 


Tho Excise Commissioner , 
Panjim . 


Sir , 


Please permit mo/ us to cxport the liquor described below from 
our bonded warehouse /liconged promises to M /s. . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . by soa /rail /road via Check 


Post at..... . ........ .... 


And if the said liquor is duly removod and exported within 
such timo as the Commissioner of Exciso directs ; and all such : 
duos whether excisc duty or other lawſul charges , if any , as fixed 
by the said Commissioner and payable on the said liquor or any 
porting or portions thurcol ure paid into the Government treasury 
by tho obligor (s ) within ton days of tho dale of domand thereof 
beirg inade in writing by tho said Commissioner : 

The obligation shall bo void , 

Otherwise and on breach or failure ip tho performance of any 
part of this condition , the samo shall be in full force . 

I /wo declare that this bond is givon under the ordors of the 
Govornment of Goa, Daman and Diu for the performanco of an 
act in which the public are interested . 


Description No . of Bulk 

Proof Strength 
of liquor CASOS Litres Litros 
A copy of the import permit authorising tho import intu , . 

. . . . . is herowith enclosed . 
Tho troasury rocoipt No . . . . . . . . . . . . datod . . 
for the exciso duty of Rs. 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . on the aforesaid 
quantity is also enclosed . 

Yours faithfully , 
(Deleto the lottors and words not applicable). 


Plico . . . 
Date . . . . . . . 


Signaturo(s ) of obligor(s) 

(1) Suroty 

( 2) Şurety 
Signod , sealed and dolivered by the above named in the presence * 
of : 
Witnesses ( 1 ) Adulress (1) Occupation (1) 

(2 ) Addross (2 ) Occupation (2 ) 
Accepted 
Panjim , 

. . . . . . . . . 196 . . . . . 


Excise Commissioner 


P 


112YVILI 


V 


. . . 


. . . . . . 


FORMB 4 

( See Rule 13 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Permit No. 

Permit for Export " UNDER BOND ” lon prepayment of 
duty . 
Shri/Sarvashri. . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . is / aro pertnit . 
ted to export from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the under noted 
liquor to M /s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .by sca / rail /road 
as por import pormit No. . . . 

. . . . . . dated . . . . . . . 
196 . , . ., issued by the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . 
Description No. of casos B . L . P. L . Strength 

of liquor . 
· This posmit will be current for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . from 
this date and shall be carried with tho consignment. 

The oxport should bo in one transaction . The consignment 
shall not be broken in bulk whilc in transit and shall not be oponed 
boforo verification by an Exciso Officer , 

Place . . . . 
Date . . . . 

Signature and designation 
of the issuing Authority 

(Excise Commissioner ). 
Copy to : 

(1) Exciso Check -Post at. . . . . 
(2 ) The Excise Commissioner of . 

. . . . . . . . .with 
a request to return this pormit to the Exciso Commis 
sioner, Panjim , Goa, within ten days of the arrival of tho 
consignment at destination . 
The result of the verification may be noted on the back . 

(Strike out whichever not applicable ). 


FORM E 6 

( See Rule 17) 
SPECIAL BOND (WITH SURETIES) FOR THE DUE 
DESPATCH OF LIQUOR REMOVED FROM TIME 

TO TIME FOR IMPORT/EXPORT 

WITHOUT PAYMENT OF DUTY 
(Doloto the letters and words not applicable ) 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . Jhereinafter called the obligor (s)] and . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . . . . . and . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . (hereinafter called the suroties aro jointly 
and soverally bound to the President of India in the sum of . . . 

. . . . . . . . . rupeos to bo paid to the President of India , for 
which payinont we jointly and scverally bind ourselvos and our 
legal reprcsontativos . 

The above bonded obligor (s ) being permitted to import 


I/wo . . . . . 


export 
(description of liquoi) without payment of duty from (Namo 

bonded 
of Distillery ) 

Subject to tho provi 


LV 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


+ 


+ 


FORMES 

(See Rulo 17) 
GENERAL BOND (WITH SURETIES) FOR THE 
DUE DESPATCH OF LIQUOR REMOVED FROM 
TIME TO TIME FOR IMPORT/EXPORT 

WITHOUT PAYMENT OF DUTY 

(Delete the lettors and words not applicable) 
I/wo . . . . . 

. . . . . of . . .. . 
. . . . . . . . . ( hereinaftor called the obligor (s)] and . . . . 

. . . . . Of . . . . . . . . . . lod . . . . . . . . . . . . of . 

. . . . . . . ( horoipafter called tho suroties ) aro joi ntly 
and sovorally bound to the Prosident of India in the sum of . . . . . . . . 
rupoos to bo paid to the Prosident of India , for which paymont 
we jolatly and sovorally bind ourselves and our legal representatives , 


warehouse situated at . . . . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . 
sions of the Exciso Duty Act , 1964 and tho Rules make there 
under. 

The condition of this bond is that if the obligor(s ) and his / 
their legal representatives shall observo all the provisions of tho 
Excise Duty Act, 1964 , and tho Rules made thereundor, in respoct 
liquor so romovod . 

imported 
And if the said liquor is duly . - 

2 .within 

removed and exported 
such time as the Commissioner of Excise directs ; and all such 
duos whether excise duty or other lawful charges ., if any, as 
fixed by the said Commissioner and payablo on the said liquor 
or any portion or portions thereof are paid into the Government 
troasury by the obligor (s ) within ton days of the date of domand 
thereof boing made in writing by tho said Commissioner ; 

The obligation shallbo void . 
Otherwise and on broach or failuro in the performance of any 
part of this condition , the same shall be in full forco . 


PART II — SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 23, 1887) 


167 


1/we declare that his bond is given under the orders of tho 
Govoramont of Goa , Daman and Diu for the performance of 
an act in which the public are interested . 

Place . 
Date . . . . 

Signatureis) of obligor(s) 

(1 ) Surety 

(2 ) Surety 
Signed , soaled and delivered by the abovc named in the presence 
of; 
Witnesses ( 1) Address (1) Occupation (1 ) 

( 2 ) Address (2 ) Occupation (2 ) 
Accepted 
Panjim , . . 

. . . . . . . . . . 196 . . . . ... . 


Shri . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . is hereby 
permitted to possess Indian made forcigo liquor/country liquor 
in privilegou quantity of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to bo pur 
chased from . , . . , . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . for the purpose 

. . . . . . . . . for the period from . . . . . . . 
to . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . .to be consund 
: 

at . . . . . . . . . . , subjcct 
to the provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the rules mado 
thereunder . 

The . . . , 


OL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


FORM E 10 
( See Rule 21 ) 


Court fce 

Stanıp 
| R6, 1 


Excise Commissioner , 


APPLICATION FOR LICENCE FOR A PRIVATE 

BONDED WAREHOUSE 


To , 


Thc Excise Commissioner , 
Panjim . 


Sir , 


[ /we . . . . . . . . . . . . . . residing at . . . . . . . . . . Taluka . . . . . . . 
l equest that 1 /wcmay be granted a licence for the use of the prcnrises 


FORM E 7 

(See Rules 19, 35 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Porinit for transport of duty paid Indian maule foreign liqucm 
denatured spirit/rcclified spirit . 

No. . . . . . ons 
Sliri/Sarvashri . . . . . . . . 
is /are permitted to transport from . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . the undermentioned liquors 10 . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . by road /rail/watcr . 
- - -- - - . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Name of liquor No. of cascs Bulk litres Proof litres 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


the accompanying 
described below as a private bonded warehouse during the 
may be renewed 

for 
ycar ending tho 31st March 196 . . . . 

2 . 1/we agroe to abide by the terms and conditions of thic liccncc 
which may be granted /renewed . 

3 . 1 /wc hereby declare that no oxcisc licence previously 
held by mc/us has bcen cancelled or suspended or has failed 
to be renewed owing to a breach of the Act and /or Rules governing 
the grant of such licence . 

4 . I/we doclare that to the best of niy /our knowledge and 
belicf the information furnished hercin is true and complete . 

5. I/we havo cnclosed the treasury recipt No. . . . . . dated 
. . . . . . . . . for licence fee of Rs. . . . . . . 

Place .. .. . . 
Datc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

$Signature(s) of the applicanı( ) 
Description of premiscs : 
1 . Village or Town or City :- - 
2 . Name of Roadin 
3, Sub -divisions of the Warehouse : 
4 . Inner arca : 


. - - -- - - ... - - - - -- - - - - - 
TOTAL . . . . . . . . . 

- . - - . - . - - - - - - - - 
This permit will bc valid for. . . . . . . . . . . .days froin the dato 
of issue and should always be carried along with the consign 
mont. 


Place . . . . 


. ! 


Licensing Authority . 
Copy to :- - 

Excise Check - Post at. . . . . . . , 
Excise Inspector at . . ... . . . . . . . . . . 


FORM E 8 

(Sec Rulo 2011 
Address in full 

Application for pormii for possession of Indian made 
liquor . 

Date . . . . . . . . 


TO , 


The . . . . . . 
Panjina . 


Sir , 


Pleasc grant me a permit for possession of Indiau made foreign 
liquor in privileged quantity of . . . . . . 
to be purchased on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . from M /s. . . . . . . . . . 
. . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 be consumed at . . 
for the purpose of . . . . . . . 

Yours luthfully, 


FORM E 11 

(Sec Rule 22 ) 
BOND (WITH SURETY ) TO BE ENTERED INTO BY THE 

LICENSEE OF A PRIVATE BONDED WAREHOUSE 
I we . . . . . 

. . . . of . . . 
(hereinafter called the 
(hereinafter called the obligor (s )] and . . ... . . . . 0 . . . . . 
and . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (hercioaller called 
the sureties ) are jointly and severally bound to the President 
of India in the sum of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rupces to be paid to 
the President of India for which paynient wc jointly and severally 
bind ourselves and our legal representatives , 

The condition of this bond is that if the obligor (s ) and his 
their legal representatives shall observe all the provisions of tlie 
Excise Duty Act, 1964, the rules inade thcrounder and permit 
to be observed in respect of a private bonded warehouse ; 

And if all dues , whether duty or other lawful charges which 
shall be demandable , on the goods adnitted to this warehousc 
as shown by the records of the proper Excise Ollicer , be duly 
Paid into the trcasury within ten days of the date of demand 
thereof being inado in writiog by the said Excise Officer ; 

This obligation shall be void , 

Otherwise and on brcach or failure of the performance of 
any part of this condition , the same shall be in full force . 

We declare that this bond is given under the orders of the 
Government of Goa , Duman and Diu for the performancc of 
an act in which the public are interested . 

Place . 


FORM EY 

( Sec Rule 20 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXIS 

LXCISE 
Permit for the possession of Indian made ſureign liquor, couptry 
liqour . 
No. of Perint. . . . . . . . . . . . 
Date of Permit . . . . . . . . . 


OFLXCISENUE AND 


Date . 


Signature(s ) of obligor (s) 

Signature of suretics, 


- - - ---- 


168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) [ PART III - SEC, 3 

GIUSSI = = E = ISOTEESS = II 
Witnesses ( 1) Address ( 1 ) Occupation (1 ) 

FORM E 15 
Address (2 ) Occupation (2 ) 

( See Rule 43 ) 
Place . . . . . . ben , 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 

DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
Date , . . . 

EXCISE 
Accepted . 
Panjim , . . . . 196 

Licence to manufacture Indian piade forviga liquor (UNDER 

BOND ) for payment of duty . . 
Escisc Coinmissioner . 

Shri/Sarvashri.. . . . 
of. , 

. . . . . . . . having undertaken to comply with the 

conditions prescribed in tho Exciso Duty Act, 1964 , and the 
FORM E 12 

rules made thereunder and having paid tinc prescribed liccacc 
( See Rule 22 ) 

fee of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . js /are hereby authorisch to 

manufacture liquor specificd below during the yoar ending 31st 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU March , 196 . . . ., in the premises situated at . . . . . . . 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

and described in his/their application dater . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Sulject to the provisions of the Act . 
EXCISE 

This licence may be cancellcu or suspended or its rencwal 
PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE BONDEN WAREHOUSE 

may bo refused , if any declaration made or information given 
The undernventioned premises belonging 10 Shri/Sarvashii in the application therefor is found to be false or if any undertaking 

given in such application is not carticd out or if the licensce fails 
are hereby permitted, subject to the provisions of the Excise to comply with the provisions of the aforesaid Act and the rules 
Duty Act , 1964 , and the rules inade thereunder , as a privato madle thereunder . 
bonded warehouse for the deposit of liquor which cuty has 
not been paid . 

Description of liquor : 

Place . . . . . . . . 
Situation and description of premises . 

Date , 
2 . This permit is granted to Shri Sarvashri. . . . . . 
. . . . . who has / have paid the prescribed 

Licensing Authority , 
licence fee of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for the current year . It is 

Renewal of the licence 
not transferable to any person and will remain in force uptil 31st 

-- - -- - -- - 
March , 196 . . . , unless Cancelled before that datc . 

- - -- - - - - - 

Date of renowal Year for which Signature of liçen 
3 . This permit may be suspended or cancelled or its renewal 

renewed 

sing authority 
may be refused if any declaration made or information 

- - - - 

- - - - -- -- - - - - 
given in the application thercof is found to be false or if any under 
taking given in such application is not carried out . 


Placc . . . 


Dato . . . . . . . . . . . 

(Excisc Commissioner ). 
Rencual of the permit 

- - - - - - - - . . 
No. and date of 
Date or trcasury receipt Ycar for Signature of 
renewal for having paid which licensing 

the permit lee renewed authority 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


FORM E 13 

( See Rule 36 /40 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Permit for the possession of Denatured spirit/Rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol. 

No. of Permit .. 

Date of Permit . . . . . . 
Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

, , , . , . . .residing 
at . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . ., is horeby authorised to possess 
Denatured spirit/ Rectified spirit in privileged quantity oj 

. . . . . ., to be purchased from . . . . , 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . belore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , for tho 
purpose of . . . 

. . . . . . . . , subject to the provisions 
of tbc Excise Duty Act, 1964, and the rules made thereunder . 

The . . 


FORM C10 

[ See Kule 53 (3)] 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OR REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 

Licence for bottling, blending. 
Licence No.. . . . . . . . 
Darc of licence . . . . . . . 

This licenco authorizes Shri Savashri. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
bottle /blend foreign liquor /Indian made foreign liquor country 
in . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . residing at . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
liquor in his, their premises . . . . . . 

. . . , situated at . 
. . . . . . . . Subjcost to the provisions of Excise Duty 
Act, 1964, and the rules made thereunder. 
The fee of Rs. .. . . . . . . . . . . . has been paid . 

The Excise Commissioner, 


and at 
. . . . ! 


FORM E 17 

( See Ryle 56 ( 1)] 

Declaration for toddy- tapping 
Talukid of . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Village of . . 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

Name of the Registration 
property in number of 
which the matriz 
Irces are 

situilled 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - 


| I 


!Nanie 

and 


address 


Number andkind 

of 


Periodof itapping 


Remarks 


- 


Owner . . . . . . . . . 


Tapper 


. 


FORM E 14 

( See Rule 37 ) . 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Licence for the possession and use of denatured spirit tor In 
dustrial purpose . 

Licence No . 

Date of licence . . . . . . . 
This licence authorizes Shri Sarvashri. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . residing at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 posses 
and usc denatured spirit for manufacturiug Varnishes , dyes , 
colours and the like in quantity of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . itrcs 
per year in his / their prenilses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
situated at . . . . . 

. . . . . . . subject to the 
provisions of Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the rules made therc 
under. 
Licencc ſec of Rs. 50, - has been paid . 

(Excise Comnussioner ) 


- 


- 


-- - - - -- - --- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

. . . . . . , dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 . . 
Counter signed. 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Owoer 


Excisc - guien 


Tapper 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 

Ne , . . . . . . . 
Taluka Revenue Office 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 

No , . . . . . . . . 
Taluka Rcvenue Office 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 

No. 
Taluka Revenue Office 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 

No. 
Taluka Revenge O 


NO. . . 


Taluka Reyeuue Office 


| 


C 


PARTIII-SEC.31 


{{ו 
Ap 


- 
- 


- 


. . . . . . 


- 


- 


For E 18 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN 
See Ruk 56 ( ) 

No . . . . . .. . 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMANI 

Taluka Revenue Office 
& Diu 
Department of Revenue & 

Fehmars 
Taxes Excise 

Tree tapping 
Trec Tax 

tar . . . . . . . . . . Rs. 
Taluku of . . . . . . . . . Eine fur jale 
Challan No. . . . . . . 

payment. . . 

TOTAL . 
Pain on . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . 
Properly .. . ... 
Situated at. . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . 
Registered under no . . . 

Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Once 
in the name of . . . . . . . . . . . . 


December 
Tree inpping 
litX . . . . . . . . . . Rs. , 
Finc for luto 
payment. . .. . . . . . . .. 

TOTAL 
Paid 01 . . . 

. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . 


October 
Tiec tapping 
tax . . . . . . . . . . R > . . . . . . . . 
Fine for late 
payment. . . . . . . . . . .. 

TOTAL . . . 
Paid on . . . 

. . ... . . . . . . . . . .. 


August 
Tra tapping 
tax . . . . . . . . . . RS. . . . . . . 
! Fine for late 
payment . . 

ΤΟΤΑΙ . , 
Paid on . . . 

.. . . . .. .. . . . .. . 19 . . 


Juure 
Trưe tapping 

Tree tapping 
tax . .. . . . . . . . Rs . . . . . . . . . tax . . . . ... . . . Rs. 
Fine for late 

Fine for late 
payment.. ... . . . . . . . 

namient. . . . 
TOTAL , 

TOTAL . 
Paid on . .. . 

! Paid on . . . 
. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. 19 .. . . .. . ... . .. .. ... 


-- 


Village . . . . 


. . . 


JI 


, . 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


Head of the Taluha 

Revenue Ofice 


Head of the Taluka i 

Revenue Ofice 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Ollice 


-- 


- 


- 


--- 


Treasury Olficer 


Treasury Officer 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


-- - - - -- - 


- - - -- - 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN 

No . . . . . . . 
Taluka Revenue Office 


INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAX 

No . . . . . . . . . . 
Taluka Revenue Office 


Number and kind of trek 
10 te tapped .. . . . . . . 

Tieasury Officer ! Treasury Officer i 

Treasuty Officer 

Treasury Officer 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Tappiog period , . . . - - - - - - - - - - 

--- - - - - - .. . , - .. : - - - = = 
Declaration no . .. . . 

INSTALMENT 
Date 

INSTALMENT INSTALMENT 

INSTALMENT 
OF CHALLAN OF CHALLAN OF CHALLAN 

OL CHALLAN 
Excise Guardi No. , . . . . . No, . . . . . . . 

No. . . . . . . . . 

No . . . . . . . . . . 
Countersigned . 

Taluka Rcredue Office Taluka Revenue Office Taluka Revenue Ofice 

Taluka Rexcoue Office 
Date . . . 

March 

January í November 

September 
Head of the Taluka | Trec tapping 

Tice tapping i Tree tappiog 

Tree tapping 
Reveave Office tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . tas . . . . . . . . . . R . . . . . . . . . . . 

tas . . . . . . . , . , RS. , . . . . . . . . . tax . . . . . . . . Rs . . . . . 
Division of paynient in 105- ! Fide for late 

Fine for late Fine for late 

Fine for late 
taiments (a ) payment.. . . . .. . . . . payment.. .. 

payment. . 

payment. .. . 
Nos. . . . . . . . of each Rs. . . . TOTAL . . . . 

TOTAL . . . . . TOTAL . . . . . . . . 

TOTAL . . . . . . . 
Nos , . . . . . . . of each Rs. . . . Paid on . . 

Paid on . .. 

Paid on . 

- | Paid on . . 
. .. . . .. .. .. .. 19 . .. . | 

. . . . . . 19 . , . . 

.... . . . . . . . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,NOVEMBER13,1965(KARTIKA22,1887) 


July 
Tree tapping 
tax . . . . .. .. . . Rs. . . . . . . . 
Fine for latc 
payment. . . . . . . . . . . . 


May 
Tree tapping 
tax . . . . . . . . . . RS. . . . . . . 
Finc for late 
payment. . . . . 

TOTAL , 
Paid on 


TOTAL . . . . . . . . . . . 


O 


U 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Paid on . . .. .. .. 

. . . . . 19 . . . 


19 . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . 19 . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . 


19 . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Head of the Taluba 

Reycaue Olce 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Oflice 


Head of the Taluka 

Rerifjue Office 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office 


( a ) The instalments of the 

Challan of previous months 
shall be cancelled accord 
ingly . 


169 


Treasury Officer 


Treasury Ollicer 


Treasury Officer 


Treasury Officer 


Treasury Officer 


Treasily Officer 


- - 


190 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13 , 1965 (KARTİKA 22 , 1887 ) (PART III- SEC , 3 
= - - = - = - = - - 
TORM E 19 

FORM E 22 
( See Rule 56 (5 ) 

( See Rule 70 ) 
GOVERNMENT OL GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 

Revenue Office of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taluka 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

Licence for extration of cashew juice. 
EXCISE 

Licence No.. . . ... . . . . 
Licence for tree -tapping 

Date of licence , 
Taluka Revenue Office .. .. . . 

Shri . . . . . . . . . 
Ne. . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . .is hcrcby authorised to extract juice 
Ycar 196 .. . . 196 . . . . 

from cahew fruits yielded in the gloves . 


of . . . . . . . . . . . . 


resident of .. . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . ... Taluka .. . . . . .. . . . .has been 
licensed for tapping . . . . . . . . . . . . coconut trees for . . . . 

. , . , . , from the grove . . . . . . 

. . . situated at... . . . . . . . . . . and registered 
under No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,belonging to . . . . . . . . 
residcot of .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .entered in the registered in this 
office under Nos. . . . . . . . . . 
This licence is valid from the month of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . .to 

. . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . . 
Talukit Revenue Office . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . 


situated at. . 

. ., subicct 10 the provisions 
of the Excise Duty Act, 1961, and the rules made thercunder . 

The Head of Revenuc Office 


The Head of the Taluka Revenue Office 


- 


- 


FORM E 20 

[ See Rule 57(7 )] 
GOVERNMENT OL GOA DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 

Tree Tax 
Taluka Revenue Offic . . . . . . . 
Daily collection sheet 

Month . . . . . . . . . . Date . . . . . . . . . . 


FORME 23 

( See Rule 73) 
Revenue Office of .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. Taluka 
Licence lor manufacture liquor from cashew juice and working 
Stills for the distillation therefore , 

Licciice no . . . . . , . . 

Date of licence . 
Shri. . . . . . . 

. . . .. Icase -lolder 
of . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. ., is hereby authorised to manufacture 
liquor from cashew juicc and work . 
stills for distillation therefor in the locality situated at . . . . . . . . . . 

. . .belonging to . . . . . . . . . 
The licence fee of Rs.. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . has been paid into 
the Government trcasury by challan No . . . . . . . . . dated . . . . . .. 

The Licensing Authority 


Year . . . 


- 


- 
- 


- 


ChallanNo.1 


TrecTax 


ChallanNe 


TreeTax 


ChallanNo. 


TreeTax 


ChallanNo. 


TreeTax 


Remarks 


Ilcad of the Thlyk : Revenue Office 


- 


Countersigned , 


Treasury Clerk 


Head of the Taluka Revenue Office 

Chocked by 


FORM E 31 

( See Rules 90 (3 ) und 93 ] 
GOVERNMENT 01: GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Revenuc Office of . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taluka 
Licencu for wholesale vend of foreign or /and indian made 
forcign liquor /country liquordenatured spirit /rectified spil it 

Register No. . . . . . . . 
Name of licencc-holder , .. 

Locality . . ruv . . . ... . . . . .. 
This licence authorizes Shri/Sarvashri. . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . residing at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . to sell by 
wholesale foreign or /and indian made foreign liquor /country 
liquor /denatured spirit /rectified spirit in thc premiscs . . . . 
, , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , subject lo the 
provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the Rules made 
thereunder . 


Treasury Officer 


FORME 21 


FORM E 21 

( See Rule 69 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , 

DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVE 
NUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Original 

Transit permut for traps 
port of country liquor by 
toddy tappers . 


The licence is valid froni . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 . . . . to . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . ... 196 . . . . provided that the licence foc is paid 
according to the provisions of the Rules. The non - payment of 
licencc fcc in time shall render this licence liable to be cancelled , 
The premises shall be closed on every , . . . . . . . . 

The Head of the Taluka Revenue Ollico, 


Shri . . . . . . 


( See Rule 69 ) 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , 

DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVLE 
NUE AND TAXES 

EXCISF 
Counterfoil 

Transit permit for trans 
port of country liquor by 
toddy tappers. 

Shri . . . . . . . . 
toddy-tapper , residing at . . . . . 
under licence No. . . . . dated 
the . . . . . . . is authorised to 
transport . . . . . . . . litres of 
country liquor of the streng 
th . . . . . . . . from his warc 
house to the licensed premi 
scs of Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
situated at . . . . . . . . The duty 
of Rs. . . . . . . . . dye on the 
above quantity has been col 
lected by me. 

Placo 
Dato 

Tho Excisc Guard , 


ciding at . . . . 


. . . . 


toddy - tapper, residing at . . . . 
under licence No. . . . .dateci 
thie , . . , . . . . is autliorised to 
transport . . . . . . . . litres of 
country liquor of the streny 
th . . . . . . . . from his ware 
house to the licensed premi 
ses of Shri. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
situated at . . . . . . . . Tho duty 
of Rs. . . . . . . . . due on the 
above quantity has been col 
lected by me, 
Place . . . . . 
Datc . 

The Excise Guald , 


FORM E 25 

[ See Rules 90 ( 3 ) and 93 ] 
GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Revenue Office of, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taluha 

Licence for retail sale of forcign or/and indian made forcgin 
liquor/ country liquordenatured spirit /rectiſicd spirit. 


su 


PART III - SIC . 37 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887 ) 

171 
= > 

1KG 
Register No. . . . . . . . . 

Counterfoil 

Original 
Name of licence-holder . .. . 

FORM E 26 

FORM E 26 
Locality . . . . . . . . . 

( See Rule 117) 

( See Rule 117 ) 
This licence authorizes Shri Sarvashri. . . . . . . . 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA , GOVERNMENT OF GOA , 
. . . . . . . . . . . residing at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 sell by 

DAMAN AND DIU 

DAMAN AND DIU 
retail , foreign or /and Indian made foreign liquor /county liquor/ Department of Revenue Department of Revenue 
denatured spirit rectified spirit in the promises . . . . . . . 

and Taxes 

and Taxes 
. . . . . . . . . . situated at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , subject to 

CXCISE 

EXCISE 
the provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the Rules made 
thercunder . 

I hereby certify that hav I hereby certify that have 

ing searched Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . ing searched Shui. . . . . . . . . . . . 
This licence is valid from . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 , . . . to . . . . . . . . 

vessel/raſt /vehiclc /animal/ vessel// raft /vehicle / animal) 

/ package/ rcccptacle as des /package /receptacle as des 
. . . . . . . .196 . . . .provided that the licence fee is 

cribed below at . . . . . . . . houil s cribed below at . . . . . .hours 
paid according to the provisions of the Rules. The non - payment today , I did not find any today, I did not find any 
of licence ſee in time shall render this licence liable to he can . liquor concealed thercon . liquor concealed thereon , 
celled . 

Description of: 

Description of ; 
The premises shall be closed on every . . . . . 

Place and date : 

Place and date : 
The Head of the Taluka Revenue Office , 

The Excisc . . . . . 

The Excisc . . . . . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


Original 


FORM E 27 

( See Rule 118) 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 

EXCISE 
Challan No . . . . 

Treasury /Sub - Trcasury 
Cash paid into the : 

State Bank of India at. . . 
State Bank of Saurasthra 


Duplicatc 
Triplicate 


To be filled by the remitter 


To be filled in by the departmental officer 


Quantity 


By whom 
tendered 


Descrip - | Strength 
tion of 
goods 


Rate 
of 


Bulk 
litres 


Proof 


Amount 
Rs. | P . 


Head of Account 


litres 


Order to the Bank 

9 


5 


8 


+ State Excise Duty 


Date . . . . . . . . . . 
Correct. 
Excise . . . . . 
Receive and grant re 

ceipt. 
Head of. . . . . . . . . . Taluka 


Revenue Oflice . 


Total amount (in words) Rupecs . . . . . . . . . 


Treasury Officer. 


Accountant. 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


Received payment (in words ) Rupees . . . . . . . . . .. 

Treasurer 


Accountant 


Agent of Manager. 


. . 


. . . . . 


IIIIII . . 11 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
FARIDABAD AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1965 


