
(Lh e (Baxctte of <3 ti d i a 


SnfWTTT $ STVlftlW 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

39] vrfoirc, femiT 24, 1977/snfwT 2, 1899 

No 39] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 

*mT 3 ftp-r qes ^ | fantf fa stho jfaw $ *«r $ «rr 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

PART II— Section 3— Sub-section (ii) 

(tmt nwmu vt wtfjpr) mm ?i nsnsirf aft? (nn sftsv srmmrii wt 
ftafttr rnfarnfaff iri wrff fa$ trifafew wtttt jfk wfspg-^Tg 
Statutory Orders and Notifications issued by the Ministries of the Government of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) by Central Authorities 
(other than the Administrations of Union Territories) 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2939, — In pursuance of rule 6 of the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker) Rules, 1977, the Election Com- 
mission hereby publishes the order dated 20 August, 1977 
of the Authority constituted under the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 in election petition 
No. 1 of 1977 filed before it by Shri Jashwant Chauhan calling 
in question the election of Shri Morarjibhai Ranchhodjibhai 
Desai, the Prime Minister, to the Lok Sabha from Surat par- 
liamentary constituency in Gujarat. 

BEFORE THE AUTHORITY CONSTITUTED UNDER 
THE DISPUTED ELECTIONS (PRIME MINISTER AND 
SPEAKER) ACT, 1977 

Election Petition No. I of 1977 

Shri Jashwant Chauhan ....Petitioner 

Vs. 

Shri Morarjibhai Ranchhodjibhai Desai and 2 others 

Respondents 

This election petition challenges the validity of the elecion 
of the first respondent to the Lok Sabha from the Surat 
Parliamentary Constituency in the State of Gujarat. The 

general elections to the Lok Sabha were announced in the 
third week of January 1977 and according to the election 
programme, the laHt date for filing nominations was 17 Feb- 
ruary, 1977 and the scrutiny of the nomination papers was 
fixed on 18 February, 19/7. The petitioner, respondents 
No. 1 to 3 and two others filed their nomination papers 
in time and the nomination papers were found in order, but 
before the date fixed for withdrawal of candidature, the other 


two candidates withdrew, leaving the petitioner and respon- 
dents No. 1 to 3 as the sole contesting candidates. The poll 
took place on 19 March, 1977 and the result was declared on 
20 March, 1977. The votes secured by the contesting can- 
didates were 1,84,789 for the petitioner, 2,06,162 for the first 
respondent, 1,263 for the second respondent and 835 for the 
third respondent and since the first respondent secured the 
highest number of votes, he was declared duly elected. The 
Janata Party secured a majority of scats in the Lok Sabha 
and the first respondent having been elected as Leader of 
the Janata Party, was invited to form the Government and 
he was administered oath of office as Prime Minister on 24 
March, 1977, The petitioner, who was a defeated candidate, 
presented to the Election Commission on 10 May, 1977 the 
present election petition challenging the election of the first 
respondent. The election petition was presented under the pro- 
visions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act, 1977 (Act No. 16 of 1977) which was, in the meantime, 
passed by Parliament and assented by the President on 18 
April, 1977. Section 5 of this Act provided, in so far as 
materials : 

5. ( 1 ) A petition calling in question any election may be 
presented on one or more of the grounds specified 
in sub-section (1) of section 100 and section 101 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, to the Elec- 
tion Commission by any candidate at such election 
or any elector within forthy-five days from, but not 
earlier than, the date of election of the returned 
candidate, or if there are more returned candidates 
than one at the election and the dates of their 
election are different, the last of those dates : 

Provided that a petition calling in question the election 
of a person who does not hold the office of Prime 
Minister or, as the case may, as Speaker of the 
House of the People at the time of such election 


80 GI/77— 1 


(3405) 


3406 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


[Part 11— Sec. 3(ii)^ 


and who is appointed or chosen to that office after 
such election but before the expiry of the time for 
presen. mg such election petition, may be presented 
within fortyflve days from the date on which such 
person was appointed as the Prime Minister or 
chosen as the Speaker of the House of the People. 

Explanation.— In this sub-section "elector" means a per- 
son who was entitled to vote at the election to which 
the petition relates, whether he has voted at such 
election or not. 

(2) A petition shall be deemed to have been presented 

to the Election Commission when it is delivered to 
the Election Commission or to such other officer as 
may be appointed by it in this behalf — 

(a) by the person making the petition, or 

(b) by a person authorised in writing in this behalf by 

the person making the petition. 

(3) Every petition shall be accompanied by as many copies 

thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the 
petition and one more copy for the use of the Elec- 
tion Commission, and every such copy shall be attes- 
ted by the petitioner under his own signature to be 
a true copy of the petition. 

(4) At the time of presenting a petition, the petitioner 
shall deposit with the Election Commission in such 
manner as may be prescribed a sum of two thousand 
rupees as security for costs. 

The first respondent obviously did not hold office of Prime 
Minister at the time of his election and hence, according 
to the requirement of the proviso to sub-eection (1) of section 
5, the election petition calling in question his election should 
have been presented within 45 days from the date on which 
he was appointed as the Prime Minister i.e., within 45 days 
from 24 March, 1977. On this computation, the last date 
for presenting the election petition expired on 8 May, 1977. 
That was a Sunday and therefore, it wa s conceded by the first 
respondent, the election petition could have been presented on 
9 May, 1977 but not thereafter and the election petition presen- 
ted on 10 May, 1977 was clearly beyond the period specified 
in sub-section (1) of section 5. Realising this difficulty, the 
petitioner filed an application for condonation of delay in 
presenting the election petition. There was also prlma facie 
one other non-compliance with the requirement of a statutory 
provision in the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Sneaker) Act, 1977 and that statutory provision was sub-section 
(4) of section 5. This sub-section enioined that the petitioner 
should, at the time of presenting the election petition, de- 
posit with the Election Commission a sum of Rs. 2.000 as 
security for costs and this deposit should be made "in such 
manner as may be prescribed”. The manner prescribed by 
Rule 8 was that the sum required to be deposited under this 
sub-section “shall be deposited by a crossed demand draft 
drawn in favour of Pay Accounts Officers, Election Com- 
mission and payable at the Indian Bank, Connaught Circus, 
New Delhi, and the receipt in evidence of such deposit shall 
be filed with the Election Commission.” Now the petitioner. 
Instead of depositing the sum of Rs. 2,000 by a crossed demand 
draft as set out in Rule 8, tendered that amount in cash 
to the Election Commission at the time of presenting the 
election petition. The Election Commission refused to accept 
the same since that was not in accordance with the require- 
ment of Rule 8. The petitioner thereupon obtained a crossed 
demand draft for Rs. 2.000 drawn in favour of Pay and 
Amounts Officer, Election Commission payable at Indian Bank, 
Connaught Circus, New Delhi and presented the same to the 
Election Commission on the next day i.e. 11 May. 1977. 
The petitioner also presented an application for condonation 
of delay in making the security deposit. 


When the election petition came up before me a* the 
Authority constituted under the Disputed Elections (Prime 
Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977, I decided to head first the 
two applications for condonation of delay, since it was con- 
tended that if either application was not granted, the election 
petition would be liable to be dismissed stmight-away and 
there would be no need to examine it on merits. Now it 
is true that according to the requirement of the p oviso to 
sub-section (1) of section 5, the election petition should have 
been presented at the latest on 9 May, 1977 and since it 
was presented on 10 May, 1977, it was liable to be dismissed 
in limine under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 10, 


unless the delay of one day was condonable. The petitioner 
contended that by reason of section 29(2) of the Limitation 
Act, 1963, section 5 was applicable to an election petition and 
hence I had power to condone the delay in filing the election 
petition and since sufficient cause was shown by the petitioner, 
it was a fit case in which tire delay should be condoned. The 
first respondent, on the other hand, urged that the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 being a 
complete and self-contained code in regard to election petition 
for challenging the election of the Prime Minister, the Limita- 
tion Act, 1963 was not applicable to such an election petition 
and section 29 sub-section (2) could not, in the circumstances, 
be invoked to attract the applicability of section 5 and in 
any event, even if section 29 sub-section (2) were applicable, 
section 5 was expressly excluded by the provisions of the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 
and consequently, there was no power in me to condone the 
delay in filing the election petition. It must be said in fair- 
ness to the first respondent, and this attitude does credit to 
the high position occupied by him, that he merely raised the 
question of lack of jurisdiction to condone the delay and did 
not contend that, if I had such jurisdiction, the delay of one 
day arising on account of marriage of the petitioner’s daughter 
on 8 May and the wedding reception on 9 May should not 
be condoned. The sole question which, therefore, arises for 
my determination on this application for condonation of delay 
is whether I have power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition which is not filed within the period pres- 
cribed by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 5 of the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. 

To determine this question, it is necessary to refer to a few 
relevant provisions of the Constitution and ihe Disputed Elec- 
tions (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. Article 329 
provides in clause (b) which is the only clause material for 
our purpose : 


329. Bar to interference by courts in electoral matters. — 
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution but 
subject to the provisions of article 329A — 


(b) no election to either House of Parliament or to the 
House or either House of the Legislature of a State 
shall be called in question except by an election 
petition presented to such authority and in such 
manner as may be provided for by or under any 
law made by the appropriate Legislature. 


Pursuant to this article, Parliament enacted the Representa- 
tion of the People Act, 1951 which sets out in Part VI de- 
tailed provisions in regard to election petition calling in ques- 
tion an election to the Lok Sabha or to the legislative assembly 
of a State. I am not concerned directly with the Representa- 
tion of (he People Act, 1951 but it is necessary to refer to 
the same since the relevant provisions in Part VI of that 
Act are in material respects identical with the corresponding 
provisions in the Disputed Elections fPrime Minister and 
Speaker) Act, 1977. Now article 329 clause (b), as it originally 
stood applied to every election to (be Lok Sabha, irrespective 
whether the returned candidate whose election was sought to 
be challenged was the Prime Minister or Speaker or an ordi- 
nary member. Everyone was regarded as equal before the 
law and there was no discrimination in favour of the Prime 
Minister or Speaker by placing them on a higher pedestal. 
Indeed, it is difficult to see how they could be treated on 
a different footing merely because they happened to be ap- 
P 01 , at ' d '° “esc posts after their election as members of the 
Lok Sabha What would be challenged in the election peti- 
tion would be their election as members and not their appoint- 
ment as Prime Minister or Speaker and in this respect, they 
woutd be in no different position (hail other members of the 
Lok Sabha No special treatment could, therefore, be given 
to them and no special procedure prescribed, consistently with 
our egalitarian ethos. That would clearly be contrary to the 
democratic norms and republican values underlying our Con- 
i' 1 !, 11 ' 1011 ;. It would directly offend the principle of equality 
before the law and constitute serious erosion of the rule of 
H for tuna tel y , when the appeal of Mrs. Indira Gandhi, 
the then Prime Minister, against the judgement of the Allaha- 
bad High Court setting aside her election was pending before 
t A e ( Sl iQ r -) C i ne Col,rf ’ the Constitution (Thirty-ninth Amendment) 
Act, 1975 was passed by Parliament with a view to deoriv- 
mg the Supreme Court of its jurisdiction to hear the appeal 
and virtually placing the Prime Minister above the law appli- 
cable to ordinary mortals. It was reminis-ent of the davs 
when there would be one law for the ruler and another for 
i^ 7 ? U w eCtS 'i- The Constitution (Thirty-ninth Amendment) Act 
1975 inter alia amended Article 329 by adding the words “but 
subject to the provlsiosn of Article 329A” in the opening part 



t [wrnr II — a(ii)J 


»TTCff fTT tPIMH : fad UK 24, 1977/WTflWT 2, 1899 


3407 


of that article and introduced a New Article 329A making 
special provision for challenging the election to the I.ok Sabha 
in case of Prime Minister and Speaker, That article, so far 
as material, provides as follows : 

329A, Special provision as to elections to Parliament in 
the case of Prime Minister and Speaker. — (1) Subject 
to the provisions of Chapter It of Part V Texcept 
sub-clause (e) of clause (1) of article 1021, no 
election — 

(a) to either House of Parliament of a person who holds 

the office of Prime Minister at the time of such 
election or is appointed as Prime Minister after 
such election; 

(b) to the House of the People of a person who holds 

the office of Speaker of that House at the time 
of such election or who is chosen as the Speaker 
for that House after such election; 

shall be called in question, except before such autho- 
rity [not being any such authority as is referred to 
in clause (b) or article 329] or body and in such man- 
ner as may be provided for by or under any law made 
by Parliament and any such law may provide for 
all other matters relating to doubts aud disputes in 
relation to stuh eleclion including the grounds on 
which such election may be questioned. 

(2) The validity of any such law as is referred to In 
clause (1) and the decision of any authority or body 
under such law shall not be called in question in any 
court. 


(6) The provisions of this article shall have effect not- 
withstanding anything contained in this Constitution. 

It appears that the law contemplated in this article was en- 
acted by the President by inssuing (he Disputed Flections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker) Ordinance, 1977 (4 of 1977) 
but before long, as soon as the new Government of India was 
formed after the elections, it was replaced by the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. This Act 
by reason of section 1 sub-section (2) must be deemed to 
have come into force on 3 February, 1977. Section 3 of this 
Act enacts a mandatory provisions and it says : 

3. No election shall be called in question except by a 
petition presented in accordance with the provisions 
of this Act. 

Section 4 provides that every petition rhuP he tried by an 
Authority constituted for the purpose by the Central Govern- 
ment and the Authority shall consist of a single member who 
is a Judge of the Supreme Court to be nominated in this 
behalf by the Chief justice of India. 1 am the Au'horlty 
constituted by the Central Government for the purpose of 
trying the present election petition. Section 5 enacts provi- 
sions in regard to presenlation of an eleclion petition, I 
have already referred to them earlier and it is not necessary 
to reproduce them over again. Section 6 lays down an obli- 
gatory rule as to who shall be joined as tespondents to the 
election petition and section 7 deals with the contents of the 
election petition. Section 9 requires that, as soon as may 
be after the receipt of an election petition, the Election Com- 
mission shall forward it to the authority for trying the election 
petition. Then follows section 10 sub-section (2) which is 
very important. It reads as under ; 

10. (2) The Authority shall dismiss the petition — 

(a) if the petition has not been presented within the 

period specified in sub-section (1) of section 5; 

(b) if the petition does not comply with the provisions of 

sub-section (3) or sub-section (4) of section 5 or sec- 
tion 6. 

It was on a conjoint reading of Article 329A clause (1) and sec- 
tion 3, sub-section (1) of section 5 read with the proviso and 
sub-section (2) of section 10 that the first respondent submitted 
that I had no power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition if it was beyond the period specified in sub- 
section (1) of section J and 1 was bouDd to- dismiss it in 
limine. I shall presently consider this question, but before 
I do so, I may point out that section 3, sub-sections (1), (3) 
and (4) of section 5, section 6 and section 10 sub-section (2) 
are identical ipsissima verba with section 80, sub-sections (1) 


and (3) of section 81, section 86 sub-section (1)^ and section 
117 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 with only 
this difference that the forum for trial of an election petition 
under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act, 1977 is the authority while under the Representation of 
the People Act, 1951, it is Ihe High Court and whereas the 
period for filing an election petition under the former Act 
is 45 days from the date of appointment of the returned can- 
didate as Prime Minister or Speaker, it is 45 days from the 
date of election under the latter statute. The grounds oil 
which the election can be challenged and the procedure for 
trial of the election petition arc also the same under the Dis- 
puted Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 as 
under the Representation of People Act, 1951. The decisions 
given by the Supreme Court in regard to the construction of 
the relevant provisions! of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 would, therefore, obviously be of great relevance 
in the interpretation of the corresponding provisions in the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. 

ft would be convenient also at this stage to refer to the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963. Section 
5 which is the section invoked by the petitioner provides 
inter alia : 

“5. Any appeal or any application may he 

admitted after the prescribed period if the appellant 
or the applicant satisfies the Court that he had suffi- 
cient cause for not preferring' the appeal or making 
the application within such period”. 

The word “application” which occurs In section 5 is given 
a wide meaning by the definition in section 2 clause (b) which 
defines “application” to include a petition. Section 29 sub- 
section (2) is the next relevant section and it reads as follows 

29(2). Where any special or local law prescribes for any 
suit, appeal or application a period of limitation 
different from the period prescribed by the Schedule, 
the provisions of section 3 shall apply as if such 
period were the period prescribed by the Schedule 
and for the purpose of determining any period of 
limitation prescribed for any suit, appeal or applica- 
tion by any special or local law, the provisions con- 
tained In section 4 to 24 (inclusive) shall apply only 
in so far as, and to the extent to which, they are 
not expressly excluded bv such special or local law. 

II was by reason of this provision in section 29 sub-section 
(2) that the petitioner contended that section 5 was applicable 
to the present election petition and the delay of one day in 
filing the election petition was liable to be condoned. 

There are decisions of the Supreme Court which lay down 
in clear and unequivocal terms that when an election peti- 
tion is filed beyond the period specified in section 8J of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the High Court has 
no power to condone the delay in filing the elec'ion petition 
and it must be dismissed in limine under section 86 sub-section 
(1) of that Act. The reason given in these decisions is that 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 being a com- 
plete and self-contained code in regard to ele tion petition 
for challenging an election to the Lok Sabha or the Legislative 
Assembly of a State, it does not admit of introduction of the 
principles or provisions contained in the Limitation Act, 
1963 and hence section 29 sub-section (2) cannot be invoked 
by a petitioner who is late in filing the election petition and 
in any event, the applicability of section 5 is excluded in ease 
of such an election petition. The ratio of these decisions 
would be equally applicable in the construction of the corres- 
ponding provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker) Act, 1977 aud having regard to these decisions 
which are binding upon me as law declared by the Supreme 
Court, the conclusion must be inevitable that the Authority 
has no power to condone the delay, even though it be only 
of one day, in filing an election petition under the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 and the 
election petition must be dismissed without anything more 
under section 10 sub-section (2) of (Fiat Act. But of these 
decisions a little later. I will first approach the question on 
principle and try to arrive at the proper construction of the 
relevant statutory provisions unhampered by any authority. 

The proviso to sub-section (1) of section 5 prescribes period 
of 45 days within which an election petition must be presented 
to the Election Commission, if the eleclion of a person who 
is appointed as Prime Minister after the election, is to be 
challenged and this period of 45 days has to he computed 
from the date on which he was appointed as Prime Minister. 



3408 


[Part II — Sec. 3(ii)} 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/AS VINA, 2, 1899 


The Authority would have power to condone the delay in 
filing the election petition beyond the period of 45 days only 
if section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1953 can be invoked in 
aid by the petitioner. Now, obviously, if section 29 sub- 
section (2) of the Limitation Act, 1963 applies to an election 
petition, section 5 would be attracted unless it is expressly 
excluded by the provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime 
Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. The necessary condition 
for the application of section 29 sub-section ( 2 ) is that the 
special law mast prescribe for an appiicalitm a period of limi- 
tation “different from the period prescribed by the Scheduled”. 
The Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 
Is undoubtedly a special law and having regard !o the wide 
definition of “application” in section 2 clause (b) an election 
petition would certainly be tm 'application'’- The proviso 
to sub-section (1) of section 5 manifestly prescribes a period 
of limitation for an election petition and (he only question 
is whether this period of limitation can be said to be “different 
from the period prescribed by the Schedule'’ so as to satisfy 
the requirement for the applicability of section 29 sub-section 
(2). When the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 docs not 
prescribe any period of limitation for an election pe'ition, 
can it be said the period of limitation prescribed by the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 
is “different from the period prescribed by the Schedule" ? 
This question is fortunately no longer res integra. I( is con- 
cluded by the decision of the Supreme Court in V. C. Shukla 
vs. Khub Chand Baghel (1964) 6 SCR 129 where it has 
been held, following an earlier decision in Kawshalaya Rani 
vs. Gopal Singh (1964) 4 SCR 982, that section 29 sub- 
section ( 2 ) would be applicable even if no period of limitation 
is prescribed by the Schedule for an application under a spe- 
cial law but the special law prescribes a period of limitation 
for such application. Subha Rao J, agreeing with the majority, 
observed in this case : “when the first Schedule of the Limi- 
tation Act prescribes no time limit for a particular appeal, 
but the special law prescribes a time limit to it, can it not 
be said that under the First Schedule of the Limitation Act 
an appeal can be filed at any time but the special law by 
limiting it provides for a period ? While the former permits 
the filing of an appeal at any time, the latter limits it to 
the prescribed period, ft is, Ihercfore, different from that pres- 
cribed in the former” and concluded by saying : “Section 29(2) 
would apply to a case where a difference between the special 
law and the Limitation Act arises by the omission to provide 
for limitation to a particular proceeding under the Limitation 
Act”. There can, therefore, be no doubt that section 29 sub- 
section ( 2 ) would apply in case of an election petition filed 
under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act. 1977. 

This is the view I would be inclined to take if the question 
were free from authority binding upon me, but I find that 
there is a decision of the Supreme Court in K. Venkaleswar 
and another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others (1969) 
1 SCR 679 where the view has been taken albeit in regard 
to the Representation of the People Act, 1951, that (he Limi- 
tation Act, 1963 cannot apply to an election petition since the 
Representation of Ihc People Act, 1951 is a complete and self- 
contained code which docs not admit introduclion of any of 
the principles or provisions contained in (he limitation Act, 
1963. The relevant observations of Mittcr J. in this connection 
may be quoted as follows : 

‘The Indian Limitation Act of 1963 is an Act to con- 
solidate and amend the law of limitation of suits 
and other proceedings and for purposes connected 
therewith. The provisions of this Act will apply 
to all civil proceedings and some special criminal 
proceedings which can be taken in a court of law 
unless the application thereof has been excluded by 
any enactment : (he extent of such application is 
goverened by section 29(2) of the Limitation Act. 
In our opinion however the Limitation Act cannot 
apply to proceedings like an election petition 
inasmuch as the Representation of the People Act is 
a complete and self-contained code which does not 
admit of the introduction of the principles of the 
provisions of law contained in (he Indian Limitation 
Act”. 

Now if the Representation of the People Act. 1951 j? a com- 
plete and self-contained code in regard to election petition 
for challenging an election to the Lok Sabha or the legisla- 
tive assembly of a State, it must follow a fortiorary that the 
Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 


is also a complete and self-contained code in regard to election 
petition for challenging the election, where the returned can- 
didate is Prime Minister or Speaker, The Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker) Act 1977 contains elaborate 
provisions setting out as to who shall be Lhe Authority for 
trying the election petition, what shall be the manner of presen- 
tation of the election petition, who shall be parties to the 
election petition, how the election petition shall be tried by 
the authorily, whaL shall be the grounds for declaring die elec- 
tion void, what shall be ihc procedure befoic (he Authority in- 
cluding payment of security ror costs and execution of orders as 
to costs and what shall be the powers of Authori y in relation 
to the election petition. The whole law on the subject of 
election petition for challenging the elec'ion where the returned 
candidate as Prime Minister or Speaker is lo be found in 
Ihc Disputed Elections (Prime Minister atul Speaker) Act, 
1977. The ratio of the decision in K. Venkateswar and ano- 
ther vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others (supra) would, 
therefore, apply with equal force in ease of an election peti- 
tion under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act, 1977 and the conclusion would be irresistible 'hat the Dis- 
puted Elections (P lime Minister and Spcakci) Act, 1977 being 
a complete and self-contained code does not admit of introduc- 
tion of the priciples or provisions contained in the limitation 
Act, 1963 and consequently, section 29 sub-section (2) is not 
applicable to such an election petition. 

Of course 1 must confess atonce that 1 am not at all sure 
whether the aforesaid view taken in K. Venkateswar and ano- 
ther v. Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others represents the 
correct law on the subject. I do not see how the applicability 
of section 29 sub-section (2) can be excluded when lhe con- 
ditions of that sub-section are satisfied and that sub-section 
says in so many terms that for the purpose of determining 
any period of limitation prescribed by the special law, the 
piovisions contained in Sections 4 to 24 shall apply except 
tn so far as they are expressly cxd tided by the special law. 
Moreover, if the Representation of lhe People Act, 1951 Is 
a complete and self-contained code excluding altogether the 
applicability of the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963, 
it is difficult to sec how section 12 of Ihc Limitation Act, 
1963 could bo invoked in V. C. Shukla vs. Khub Chand 
(supra) for the purpose of computing the period of limitation 
prescribed for an appeal under section 116A sub-section (3) 
of that Act and section 4 and 12 of the Limitation Act, 1963 
could be availed of in D. P, Misra vs. K. N. Sharma (1971) 
1 SCR 8 for bringing an appeal filed under section 116A, 
sub-section (1) within the period of limitation. The Supreme 
Court in fact pointed out in D, P. Misra vs. K. N. Sharma 
that in V, C, Shukla vs, Khub Chand the Court “was inter- 
preting section 29(2)" and it was held “that in the absence of 
any express provision to the contrary contained in the special 
statute, the provisions of the Indiari Limitation Act, 1908 con- 
tained in section 4 and sections 9 to 18 and 22 shall apply 
to the extent to which they were not excluded by any special 
or local law". The Supreme Court observed in so many terms 
that “by virtue of section 29(2) of the Limitation Act, Seclions 
4 and 12 thereof apply and if the appeal is filed on the date 
on which the court reopens after the recess, it will be regarded 
as within time, if the period of limitation, after taking into 
account the time requisite for obtaining a certified copy, had 
expired during the course of the recess’’. It will, therefore, 
be seen that section 29, sub section (2) was held applicable 
by the Supreme Court in D. P, Misra vs. K. N. Sharma in 
case of an appeal under section 116A, sub-section (1) of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the decision in 
V, C. Shukla vs. Khub Chand was also explained on the 
footing that Section 29, sub-section (2) was applicable. This 
would seem to support the view that section 29, sub-section 
(2) is applicable to an election petition under the Disputed 
Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 and the only 
question can be whether anyone or more of sections 4 to 
14 are expressly excluded by the provisions of that Act. But 
in view of the decision in K. Venkateswar and another vs. 
Bekkam Narasimha Reddy and others which is more in point 
since It was concerned directly with the question of condona- 
tion of delay in filing an election petition, though under the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. I do not think it 
would be proper for me to hold that section 29, sub-section 
(2) has application in case of on election petition. If (hat 
be so, then obviously section 5 cannot be invoked to condone 
the delay in filing the election petition 

However, since the state of 'he authorities in regard to the 
applicability of section 29, sub-section (2) to an election peti- 
tion is, as pointed out above, unsatisfactory, I would proceed 



(jffm II—WTJ 3 ( ii ) 1 


3409 


: foirrt 24, 197 7/Rrftqff 2, 1899 


to discuss the question of condonation of delay in films an 
election petition on the assumption that section 29, sub-section 

(2) is applicable to an election petition. Section 5 would then 
be clearly applicable unless i: can be said to be expressly 
excluded by the provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime 
Minister and Speaker) Acl, 1977. Now it is hue rhat_ ihcrc 
is no provision in the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 

and Speaker) Act, 1977 which, by specific reference, excludes 
the applicability of section 5 to an election petition, but, 
in my opinion, it is not neccasary in order to constitute ex- 
press exclusion that the Acl should make express mention of 
section 5. What is necessary is that the exclusion must 
appear plainly from the language used by the legislature and 
not that it should be left merely to be inferred by implication. 
That is what was pointed out by the Privy Council in 

Shanmugam vs. Commissioner for Registration of Indian and 
Pakistani Residents, 1962 AC 515 which was an appeal from 

Ceylon. There the question was whether there was express 

provision in Act No. 45 of 1952 making it applicable to 
pending proceedings and the argument Was that since there 
w'as no specific reference in the Act to pending proceedings, 
it could not be said to contain express provision to rhat effect 
Lord Radcliffc delivering the judgment of ibe Privy Council 
negatived this argument and observed : 

“Their Lordships are of the view that it is correct to state 
that express provision is provision the applicability of 
which docs not arise by inference. The applicability, 
however, of the provision under discussion to the 
present case does not arise by inference; it arises 
directly from the language used. The fact that the 
language used is wide and comprehensive and covers 
many points other than the one immediately under 
discussion does not make it possible to say, that its 
application can arise by inference only. To be “ex- 
press provision" with regard to something it is not 
necessary that (hat thing should be specially men- 
tioned; tt is sufficient that is directly covered by the 
language however broad ihe language may be which 
covers it so long as the applicability .arises directly 
from the language used and not by inference there- 
from. The argument fails.” 

The Supreme Court also took (he same view in Mohd. Ashafaq 
vs, State Transport Appellate Tribunal (1977) 1 SCR 563 where 
the question was whether section 5 was applicable in case 
of an application for renewal of a permit under section 58, 
sub-section (2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1939, The proviso 
to sub-section (2) of section 58 prescribed a period of limita- 
tion for making an application for renewul and sub-section 

(3) of section 58 piovided that “the Regional Transport Aulho- 
riiy may cnterlam an application for renewal after the last 
date specified in the proviso if the application is made not 
more than 15 days after the said last date". There was delay 
on the part of the petitioner in making an application for 
renewal and the delay was of more than 15 clays and the 
question was whether it could be condoned by invoking the 
applicability of section 3. The Supreme Court held that the 
provision in sub-section (3) of section 58 that the Regional 
Transport Authority may condone the delay in making of an 
application for renewal and entertain it on merits, provided 
the delay is of not more than 15 days, constituted an express 
provision that the delay in making an application for renewal 
shall be condonable only if it is of not more than 15 days 
and that expressly excluded the applicability of section 5 in 
cases where an application for renewal is delayed by more 
than 15 days. Here there was no special mcnlion of section 
5 in any provision of the Act but the language used in sub- 
section (3) of section 58 was sufficiently clear to exclude the 
applicability of that section. The exclusion of section 5 did 
not arise by inference but it was the direct effect of the 
language used in the statute, (t is in the light of this principle 
of interpretation that I must proceed to consider whether 
section 5 is expressly excluded by the provisions of the Dis- 
puted Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977. 

Now one thing is certain that a mere provision in section 
10, sub-section (2) that the Authority shall dismiss the elec- 
tion petition, if it has not been presented within the period 
specified in sub-section (11 of section 5 i-, not sufficient to 
exclude the applicability of section 5. The Supreme Court 
pointed out in Mangu Ram ' r s. Municipal Corporation (1976) 
2 SCR 260 that “mere provision of peiiod of limitation in 
howsoever peremptory or imperative language is not sufficient 
to displace the applicability of section 5". The question that 
arose in that cane was whether section 5 was available to an 
applicant who failed to prefer an application for special leave 


to appeal from an order of acquittal wi hin the tune limit of 
60 days prescribed in sub-section (4) of section 417 of the 
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. Section 417, sub-section 

(4) provided that no application for grant of special leave to 
appeal from an order of acquittal shall be entertained by the 
High Court after the expiiy of 60 days from the date of the 
order of acquittal. The language of this piovision was man- 
datory and compulsive and debaired ihe High Court from 
entertaining an application for special leave, if it was beyond 
the time limit provided by It. And yet the Supreme Court 
held that section 5 could not be said to be excluded by this 
peremptory and imperative language. The Supreme Court 
pointed out that such would be language of every provision 
prescribing a period of limitation and it is because q bar 
against entertainment of an application beyond the period of 
limitation is created by a special or local law that it becomes 
necessary to invoke the aid of section 3 in order that the 
application may be entertained despite such bar. 1 have, 
therefore, no doubt, that if the matter reslcd merely on the 
provision in section 10, sub-section (2), it would not have 
been possible to hold that section 5 was expressly excluded. 
Bu article 329A clause (1) provides in terms clear and explicit 
that no election to either House of Parliament of a person who 
is appointed as Prime Minister after such election, shall be 
eallea in question, except before such Authority or body and 
in such manner as may be provided for by or under any 
law made by Parliament. This constitutional injunction is re- 
peated in section 3 of the Dispuicd Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker) Act, 1977 which provides that “no election shall 
be called in question except by a petition presented in accor- 
dance with the provisions of this Act”. The combined effect 
of article 329A clause (1) and section 3, Ihe proviso to sub- 
section (1) of section 5 and section 10, sub-section (2) is that 
if an election petition is not presented to Ihe Election Com- 
mission within 45 days from the date on which the returned 
candidate was appointed as Prime Minister, his election to 
Parliament cannot be called in queslion. That is a constitu- 
tional as well as a legislative mandate and it expressly excludes 
the applicability of section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963. If 
section 5 were held to be applicable, the result would be that 
an election can be called in question even though the election 
petition is not presented within ihe time specified in the pro- 
viso to sub-section (1) of section 5 i.e in the manner provided 
in the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 
1977 or in accordance with the provisions of that Act, Such 
a result would be directly contrary to the express constitutional 
prohibition contained in article 329A clause (1) and legislative 
prohibition contained in seciion 3 of the Act. There is, there- 
fore, no doubt that article 329A clause (1) and section 3, the 
proviso to sub-scction (1) of section 5 and section 10, sub- 
section (2) expressly exclude the applicability of section 5, 
for condonation of delay in filing the election petition. 

This view which I am taking is clearly in accord with the 
presumed intention of Parliament. When the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 was originally enacted, the procedure 
prescribed was that an election petition should be presented to 
ihe Election Commission and se'tion 85 required the Election 
Commission to dismiss the election petition if (he provisions 
of sections 81, 83 or 117 were not complied with. But there 
was a proviso to section 85 which conferred power on the 
Election Commission to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition if it was satisfied that sufficient muse existed 
for the failure of the petitioner to present the election petition 
within the prescribed time limit. This power to condone the 
delay in presenting an election petition was. however, taken 
away by the substitution of a new proviso bv action 48 of 
Act 27 of 1956. Thereafter, extensive amendments were made 
in the Representation of the People Act. 1951 on several occa- 
sions, but the power to condone the delay in presenting an 
election petition was not x icciflcally restored. The Supreme 
Court, in K. Venkateswar and another vs. Bekkam Narsimha 
Reddy and others, pointedly drew the attention of Parliament 
to the fact that whereas in the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 as originally enacted, discretion was given to the 
Election Commission to entertain an election' petition presented 
beyond the prescribed time limit no such saving clause was 
to be found in the Act as it stood in August 1968 when this 
case was decided. Milter J. speaking on behalf of the Court 
went on to add : 




. ,Li ii., Has rnauc me ooservance 

of certain formalities and provirions obligatory and 
failure m that respect can only be visited with a 
dismissal of the petition.” 

Though certain amendments were made in the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951 even after the decision in K. Venka- 
teswara Rao and Another vs. Bekknm Narasimha Reddi and 



3410 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


[Part II— Sec. 3(ii$] 


others, the power to condone the delay in presenting an elec- 
tion petition was not restored to the Election Commission or 
the High Court, This position was noticed and commented 
upon by the Supreme Court in H. N. Yadav vs. L. N. Misra 
(1974) 3 SC'R-381 where Taganmohan Reddy J. speaking on 
behalf of the court said : ‘Since the above decision in Venka- 
teswara Rao’g case (supra) in August 1968, though Parliament 
has made certain amendments in section 8 of the Act in 1969, 
it has not considered it necessary till now to amend the Act 
to confer, on persons challenging an election, benefits similar 
to those available to them under the proviso to the repealed 
section 85 of the Act, for as we venture to think, it did not 
want delays to occur in the disposal of election petitions as 
in the past”, The omission to introduce a provision 
similar to the proviso to the repealed section 85 
clearly evinces the Parliamentary intent not to confer 
the power to condone the delay in the presentation 
of the election petition. Moreover, when Parliament enacted 
the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 
1977, it must be presumed to be aware that there were deci- 
sions of the Supreme Court in K. Venkateshwara Rao and 
Another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others and H. N. 
Yadav vs, L. N. Misra, where a strict interpretation was placed 
on the relevant provisions of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 and it wan held that the applicability of section 5 
was excluded and neither the Election Commission nor the 
High Court had power to condone the delay in presenting 
an election petition and the view was expressed that Parlia- 
ment had deliberately excluded the power to condone the delay 
since “it did not want delays to occur in the disposal of 
election petitions as In the past". And yet, while enacting 
the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977, 
Parliament employed identical language in regard to the pro- 
visions prescribing the time limit within which an election 
petition should be presented and the consequences of not doing 
so within the stated time. It is now well settled that if an 
Act of Parliament uses the same language which was used 
in a former Act of Parliament referring to the same subject, 
and passed with the same purpose, and for the same object, 
the safe and well-known rule of construction is to assume 
that the legislature when using well-known words upon which 
there have been well-known decisions, uses those words in the 
sense which the decisions have attached to them. This is, of 
course, not a canon of construction of absolute obligation but 
it is a presumption of some weight “that Parliament intended 
that the language used by it in the subsequent statute should 
be given the meaning which meantime has been judicially 
attributed to it". It was pointed out by Grifflh C.J. in 
D’Emben vs. Pedder 1 Commonwealth Law Reports 91: 
“When a particular form of legislative enactment, which has 
received authoritative interpretation, whether by judicial deci- 
sion or by a long course of practice, is adopted in the framing 
of a later statute, it is a sound rule of construction to hold 
that the words so adopted were intended by the Legislature to 
bear the meaning which has been so put upon them". The 
language of the relevant provisions of the Disputed Elections 
(Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 1977 must, therefore, bear 
the same interpretation which has been put upon identical 
provisions in the Representation of the People Act, 1951 by 
the aforesaid decisions of the Supreme Court and it must be 
held that section 5 is excluded in its application lo an election 
petition presented under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister 
and Speaker) Act, 1977 and the Authority has no power to 
condone the delay, even though it be only of one day, in 
presenting the election petition. If Parliament intended (o 
confer such power on the Authority, it would have enacted 
an appropriate provision similar to the original proviso to 
the repealed section 85 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951. Parliament having deliberately omitted to do so, 
no power to condone the delay can be imported in the provi- 
sions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) 
Act, 1977. 

So much on principle, but apart from that, it is quite clear 
that the decisions of the Supreme Court in K, Venkateshwara 
Rao & Another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others and 
H. N. Yadav vs. L, N. Misra must compel me to reach the 
same conclusion. These decisions have clearly taken the view 
that section 5 haj no application to an election petition under 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the High 
Court has no power to condone the delay in tiling such elec- 
tion petition. It is no doubt true that these decisions were 
given in regard to the interpretation of the provisions of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951 and, strictly speaking, 
they would not be binding on me when 1 am construing the 
provisions of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker) Act, 1977, but since the relevant provisions of the 


latter statute are, in material respects, identical with those 
of the former and the two Acts are also in pari materia, the 
ratio of these decisions would apply with equal force and hence 
It must be held that section 5 has no application to an election 
petition under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker) Act, 1977. Tnis result may appear to be harsh and 
unjust, but, as pointed out by Mitter J., in K. Venkateshwara 
Rao and Another vs. Bekkam Narasimha Reddi and Others it 
is “a matter which can be set right only by the legislature”. 
The appeal in cases of this kind must be to the legislature 
and not to the court. 

There is, therefore, no escape from the conclusion that as 
the Authority under the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and 
Speaker) Act, 1977 I have no power to condone the delay 
in presentation of the election petition against the first respon- 
dent, even though the delay is only of one day and the petition- 
er is possibly in a position to show that he had sufficient cause 
for not presenting the election petition In time. The applica- 
tion for condonation of delay m presenting the election peti- 
tion must accordingly, be rejected and the election petition 
must be dismissed in limine under section 10, sub-section (2) 
of the Disputed Elections (Prime Minister and Speaker) Act, 
1977. On this view, it becomes unnecessary to consider whe- 
ther there was non-compliance on the part of petitioner with 
the requirement of sub-section (4) of section 5 and if so, 
whether the delay of one day m depositing the security for 
costs under sub-section (4) or section 5 could be condoned. 

In the result, I reject the application for condonation of 
delay In presenting the election petition and dismiss the elec- 
tion petition with costs. 

Dated, New Delhi, 

August 20, 1977. 

P. N. BHAGWATI, J. 
[No. 82/OJ/l/(PM)/77] 
V. NAGASUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 


fafa, rtpt aftr «pt 4 *r*m«r 

( mm irwur j 

ntfawft, 1977 

*rio 2910. — pfjtjtn, nwr uttmfwi (nrifafa xh), 

in. so % fffipr 6 % WfHF, rmr srrfsnprft JTTT ^ETt tft onfflr 

| fa STfftmfa »ff tfa° vfaV, TfTqfaj 17-2/ 2 4 0, 

nf fawft % Fm'i % ffai 4 % mffa, fawfr *r 
tfaU tmTTPP (jfiMt) TT TPT Ufa) tfrfctfjfa % fan WTfaR-TcT 

Tflnrr £ 1 

2- tjtr sprmr % nq if fmjfar % arfa n'nfa 

qrtf xTT'ifant ?i ifr tpi ntfar fa xT^rrfirnT ufa =ft 4*1^ fan % 
ufa far fan m fag smf 1 

[do tpso 22/46/77-uTR] 


MINISTRY OF LAW, JUSTICE AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Justice) 

New Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 
NOTICES 

S.O. 2940.— Noth c is hereby given by the Competent 
Authority in pursuan ■- of rule 6 of the Notaries Rules, 1956, 
that application has been made to the said Authority, under 
rule 4 of the said Rules by Shri N. D. Bali, Advocate 
D-2/240, Janak Puri, New Delhi for appointment as a Notary 
to practise in Delhi. 

2. Any objection lo the appointment of the said person 
as a Notary may be submitted in writing to the undersigned 
within fourteen days of the publication of this Notice. 

[No. F, 22/46 /77-JUS] 


*TtTW <U WW : fawnrr 24, 1977/3TTftn 2, 189 9 


3411 


[mnr II — urit 3 ( ii ) ] 

- 

w»w<> 2941 . — ira, bw iurror* fatre (httfftntTO'), 

19 56 % faun g % «^uk, mv mfawft sm ^wtt tfr wtfr 

| ft? ~3n> JnfilW<t WTf *hV WTT % >tf, ir*bt»Z tTo 4564, 
tTlfftft 4 1 41 i wtt*l M 1 - ftcofl *1 'd TT> ftlftt *f> ft an 4 ^ 

«TEfr^r, ftwfr if *m snn 11 !^ (bftfr) w tot wrb >ib ftafft 
^ fat upftr tar bun if 1 

srw yqrfw^- 4ft bw snrm ^ p? if farfm % «n> if lift 
41ft nirfairt ?f ift b yh ifrftn % wfvM % Vfte ft^r * 
vFif 4ft jCTTefn: writ aft w ftra wt: bm ftt sub i 

[b<wr 22 / 47/77 ranr] 

wr° 41^4^, wsnr nrfEmft 

S.O. 2941. — Notice is hereby given by the Competent 
Authority in pursuance of rule 6 of the Notaries Rules, 1956, 
that application has been made to the said Authority, under 
rule 4 of the said Rules by Shri R. K. Garg, Advocate No, 
4564 Mahabir Bazar, Cloth Market, Delhi, for appointment 
as a Notary to practise in Delhi. 

2. Any objection to the appointment of the said person 
as a Notary may be submitted in writing to the undersigned 
within fourteen days of the publication of this Notice. 

[No. F, 22 /47/77-Jus] 

R. VASUDEVAN, Competent Authority 

»H *iww 

1T$ ftwft, 5 ftRPTC 1977 
Wo Wo 2 942.—' "tofftffWTT, Hrilfftfll farm, 1956% fttril 

2 * ««* (u) % w^tritw 3 wb urm wnjift % ( 1 ) 

b fafttw wftrfrffttff ab tjn: % Eft (2) b' ftftfftr 

sfaf ab aunt TEi fftrbr % wfft wrart: % yrtri wr fat?*! arft 
% fat( faTO WHTft $ 1 








ftrr rrt<r 

ifriiftvn, 


f^^TT ^T^TTWPf, 

wfw iftsr 1 


[bo 2 603 0 / 42/77 Wfo iff o] 
rft o ftoiM t, T * t: It, q 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
New Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 

S.O.2942— In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citi- 
zenship Rules, 1956, the Central Government hereby appoints 
the officer specified in column (1) of the Schedule hereto annexed 
to perform the functions of tho Collector under the said rules 
in respect of the area specified in column (2) of the said Schedule. 

SCHEDULE 


Officer 

Area 

Assistant Collector, Asifabad 

Isagaon Rehabilitation Pro- 


ject, District Adilabad, 


Andhra Pradesh. 


[No. 26030/42/77-IC] 
P. VIJAYARAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


ftftt, e ffturr, 1 s 7 7 

»t« wio 2943. — ti^oft, bfatnu % 239 %aft ( 1 ) 

% RH+ttyi ?f, a$ fbft bb f) fa frnftnr afn: tmiw sftnr % 
Rtrura ah waan; a?ba; far tp»h fla % surrw (aft atrsmutar, 
■J4 ar jjw nr^Tfi b b fafa fa am b srpt ^t) TT^aft 

% fttfaur % trtfft 73 ft 5<i fata errff nfftt gtb aat, nrafta mr 
Slfaftaa, 1 885 ( 1 885 W 13) ah tlPT 5 % wfaa TWTO7 
ab ufaafa 4 tt spfpr nft w iirH 4f nftf 1 

[4 1 i030/fi/76ij;o €fo i^rro] 
1^0 tffo apmf im hft<r, 

New Delhi, the 9th September, 1977 

8.0. 2943, — In pursuance of clause (1) of article 239 of the 
Constitution, the President hereby directs that the Administra- 
tor of every Union territory, except that of Mizoram and 
Arunaehal Pradesh (whether known as the Administrator, the 
Lieutenant Governor or the Chief Commissioner) shall, subject 
to the control of the President and until further orders, also 
exercise the powers and discharge the functions of State Gov- 
ernment under the provisions of section 5 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885). 

[U-l 1030/8 /76-UTL] 
H. C, BAKHSHI, Under Secy. 

fa* R5TPFRT 

(ttow wft tftu ftum) 

(TIHW 1W) 

ftOftl, 29 1977 

*rmr 

Wo wio 2944. — irthTtrnyT * f’Tfrff ^ ftm rntwftpjfth 

ftqr srmr % ft ft^rf-ifta- wfth «ft ftfttr 
ftjirr *fft ftunr, -rt ft?5fl 4 mwr 1 9 6 1 

^ STO 35 ( 2 T) % snfriftf %■ ftrtf swifffttr fti^ 

t, wuft;:— 


1 . 

ifrifrtrTT irr ^nr : 

ul/VtiyR nft tjfft 

tnftftt w fms 

2. 

W^flad Wit ■ 

but shift tHfuft 

r ¥T 0 HT %fbw 




390003 

3 

RThtiTT W ^PT 


ahter ftnrftwprir. 



a 1 


1. 

RTriM 4b : 

1977 


5- 

yjf 4b Trfftr: 

, 19 80 


fl. 

HFRT 

3,00,000 ^0 



rtttTvrxr TTh loflsiq Tsftl ftVafqxium, al*lSI 'dfErgspyr 

tfo]014 (ir4« 203 / 37/75 RTfo tro) tmftw 2-8-7S % 
tpjirn: wm ufsPhET, 1 96 1 ottt 3s(i)(ii) ^ wtfft 
Rjjifrftir ftvqftmwt ^ 1 

[#o 1839 ('Ttforio 203/75/77 RTflPl' n-II)] 



3412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue and Banking) 
(Revenue Wing) 

New Delhi, the 29th June, 1977 
INCOME-TAX 


[Past II— Sec. 3(ji)[ 
— = X - 


S.O. 2944, — It is hereby notified for geneml information 
that the following scientific research programme has been appro- 
ved for the period specified below for the purposes of section 
(2A) of Section 35 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the prescri- 
bed authority, the Department of Science & Technology, New 
Delhi;— 

J . Name of the Project ; Development of Ferrofluids 

and their applications. 

2. Sponsored by ; M/s, Jyoti Ltd., P.O. Chemical 

Industries, Baroda-390003. 


natural or applied sciences (other than Agriculture/ 
Animal Husbandry /Fisheries & Medicines, Social 
Sciences or Statistics). 

(ii) That the said University will furnish the annual return 
of its Scientific Research Activities to the prescribed 
authority for every financial year in such forms as 
may be laid down and intimated to them for this 
purpose, by 30th April, each year. 

INSTITUTION 

UNIVERSITY OF NORTH BFiNUAL, RAIA RAMMOHAN- 
PUR, Diptt. Darjeeling. 

This notification is effective from 1st April, 1977. 

[No. 1S4KF. No. 203 /74/76-1TA. II)] 


3. Sponsored at : 

4. Date of Commencement ; 


The Maharaja Sayajirao Uni- 
versity of Baroda, Baroda. 
July, 1977. 


T# ffagft, a wrf , 19 7 7 


5. Date of Completion ; July, 1980. 

6. Estimated Cost : Rs. 3,00,000, 

The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Baroda is an 
approved University u/s 35(i)(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
vide Notification No. 1014 (F.No. 203/3 7/7 J-ITA. II) dated 
2-8-75. 


gtt“ sfto 2946 . — ffTTrunoff *ffr Gnwrff if, fan mt 
fafa SPIT $ fa fafaff grfagnfa, trofaf VTrmffa Ffa tETtfalff 
^ ffanfafarr farnfagr vTjffupr g?r trnr grr afaffam-, 

19 61 g?t am 3 5 4?) Ttsrm ( 2 V) T gtffafa fan ffafffafatf 
Rgfa % far flvjAlteT fan fc 


[No. 1 839(F.No. 203/75/77-ITA-1I)] 

gtTo «To 2 945. — flrfalHROI gft grfTgrtfa %■ far 

fan arm t fa faffa srrfagrrd nffar, fwr tffafagiTffafa 
ffarnr, fff ftwft % fanfafa-t fa«n vt tmrgR wfaffanr, 1 a 6 1 
g?T am 35 ararar ( 1) *r tfar (ii) % smfafa 3 r fan *n*r 
gTjrffar fair tnjgfafagr fajrn * sta fi 1 ffanfafan ml nr 
enjfafaff fart t, nfar : — 

( 1 ) nr fa nrO nra ffagfamiwr nrm fa^r qr 

gryffar nr njnfrfw ifa a (yrfa qvjqwff/umrgfr 
uV xffafa, anur ffamr n fawfa % faa) farffa: 
njttffTT T far str nffaff nr fp? gag; % 1 

( 2 ) tt; fVvrfanm sfafa ffafaa afa % fan; afar faffrffar 
w^anr nmrft ffammnfa git tpr nfw famfa 
faftpr nfanrft g?r gfa rnf 30 afar tin ifa srefa t 
gajn nfarr nr) tpt nffaff % faa nfanfnr fan nt? 
tfri far gffar fatf nn; 1 

fan 

arrft farm fanifatnwr, ttnnv fagqqr [bar aihin 
inf nfagnrr 1 afltr, 1977 tr aaifa $ 1 

[*fa 1841 (nTo^fo 203 / 74 / 76 n^oifaT 0 !!)] 

S.O. 2945.— It is hereby notified for general information that 
the institution mentioned below has been approved by the 
Secretary, the Department of Science & Technology, New 
Delhi, the prescribed authority for the purposes of clause (ii) 
of sub-section (1) of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, 
in the area of other natural or applied sciences, subject to the 
following conditions 

(i) that the University of North Bengal, Raja Raramohan- 
pur, will maintain a separate account of the sums 
received by it for scientific research in the field of 


1 . farrfw srpranr mar Tfagrnr 

gwfan (spT 

2 . (t) arfagRgrfa; xtfct gfatr ffa faggfggrmnr, ttfa 

far# fao fao fafafcr 

3 . («) RtfaTTwiff : «tmts, fam wro go 

4 . w^tfanr gtragur wrrfa aranc tt 

grt irmrgfa : 

5- R^rrfaT aiPT : 5 . 08 TT«r go gfa 

(1) faFTtffcnfl'. 1,52,81 4.00 To 

( 2 ) wrgfff RTgTffa- 61,758.00 To 
gr?nt( ; 

( 3 ) WTTgtff tnrffa- 2 , 93 , 500.00 

grant ; 

5 , 08 , 072 , 00 

m 5.08 amt x ° 


^eger.- — v H i gfft *(r Rfaff fa Trfa ^ ^ Mn % ardfagr tnf 
if <ttt fafaT nrPt % fat[ far^ fao fa 0 fafofar 2 . 00 mat 

So % TTfa gTT 5TJ5PT | 

TT% gTT fa° fa o fav TfTT gftf R^TnT rpff fttTT Sui'JIT I 
a;;yr g'f.ir frrr favTfatrrarT, ffaarrT Tmr-grr wfsrtfanT, toei 
grt am 35 (i) (ii) % Rfar Tn fannr wfa^ni tfo 878 
(g;ro fo 203 / 3 9/7 5 -nrf o fao rr 0 II), 1 8 - 4-1 975 fat 
T$?r % $ tnjfafatT $ 1 

[sfo 1863 (gtTv Tfo 203/82/76 prfo fao t^o2] 



3413 


'■‘TP 7 T r R r T? : HHi M J ^4, 19 7 7/a rfWH 2. 18 9 9 


rfariT It — ia^73(ij)] 

New Delhi, the 8 th July, 1977 

SO. 294h. — It is hereby notified for general Information that 
the following scientific research programme has been approved 
for the period specified below for the purposes of the sub-sec- 
tion (2A) of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act. 1061 by the pres- 
cribed authority the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, 
New Delhi. 

1. Scientific Research Pro- Sugarcane Sub-station. 

gramme : 

2. Sponsored fa) by : Andhra Pradesh Agricultural 

University and M/s K.C.P. 

Ltd, 

3. Sponsored (b) at : Vuyyuru, Krishna District, A.P. 

4. Duration of Research On a permanent basis. 

Programme : 

5. Estimated expenditure Rs. 5.08 lakhs per year. 

Rs. 

(0 Pay and allowances : 1,52,814.00 

(ii) Recurring contingencies : 61,758.00 

(iii) Non-recurring contingencies : 2,93,500.00 

5,08,072.00 
Or Rs. 5.08 lakhs 

Note.— O ut of the total amount under non-recurring, M/s. 
K.C.P. Ltd. will donate an amount of Rs. 2.00 lakhs 
only once during the first year of implementation of 
the Scheme towards construction of buildings etc. 
No further grants are to be given by K.C.P. Lid. 

The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad 
A.P. has already been approved under Section 35(l)(ii) of the 
Income Tax Act, 1961 vide this Department’s Notification No, 
878 (F. No. 203/39/75-ITA, II) dated 18-4-1975. 

[No. 1863 (F. No. 203/82/76- ITA. II)] 

faa Stfo, 2947 — fffaojl *"1 fa 'g'PT'tUr % fffff fau'jfa'l fan I 
irrxr & fa ffafar fftfafafa, xrfaff ffTfafa faffafft xrffi^Tr 
Tfate ff ffafffafaff 4 *«tt fa xrpr-«rr trftifaa'sr, i 9 6 1 9 ft urn 
3 y fa ffffnTTT ( 1 ) 4l "3 ' ( i i ) tPTfapft % faff fa *-8 hi fa - ' 
stiff Iff v^Mlfad faUT ifr, R'-rin : — 

1. Tk fa fafftff WTff RfffaffR fffftfa fattT faTPT fa fafmr 

ffafi fa fan I 

2. faffTff ffFff XT^tpff ttV fat ffStrffaft trifatTR fa JTT 

>sfa fa arfaqt ffarr fa fafaY fafa 3 xffa ffa faR tt far 

■sv? far ffa 5 nf fafsrr ifa 1 


purpo'cs of clause (ii) of sub-section (1) of Seclion 35 of [he 
Tncomc-tux Act, 1961 on the following conditions : — 

1. The Foundation will submit annual reports on the 

research activities of the Foundation to ihe Council. 

2. The Foundation will submit annual reports about 

donations received and spent exclusively for scientific 
research in Ihe manner ns and when iuquired by the 
Council. 

INSTITUTION 

ALL TND1A HEART FOUNDATION, NEW DELHI. 

Tlvs notific tion is effective f:n a period of Iwo years from 
he dale of this notification. 

[No. 19731F. No, 203 /87/77-ITA. II] 
fa° WTa 2 9 48.— fffaTSTTW fa ffTWlfa % fiffff mf wfd 

fffarfaTT tttt ff fa faRfarffar tfwrr fafafirt trrffanrfr, wnfa 
18 1 vflff huf 4 fqJTiff rrffffnriT Tffaff/ 7, xna-qtr trfirl i a u , 1981 
fa *nrr .is fa (1) % wt (H) fffUrff % fafa 

fanfarfgrr srft % xfarff wfftfTffat ffarr 

1. Yff ^ % (ttflff faffTff snr ffffff) fa fff faffaft fa 
faffoff faffT mpm fiff xfa ffrefiff ffaNffwiMfl' 
ff ffimr ffatTff fft Bffiff ff ftTT-ffffT fa faurr-^fa ffffaff 
4r 37719 faar irrtTffr, 

2 -faf faffari fa ifafa rrf«nff am, »rr° 4 ° fa<> 

Taiu}- fffsff, ffjrnn- nrrffafft fa fffafa '■himvI 
»I ffarr arrfarr 1 tt fffafa ii rto f o fa ttfa- 

fafa fafafft, 

1 . sfarnr t»t fatff farruTT fa^r j'r TTfait tu tfo 
fao«Toffc.TrrqTjq fiffT, xflf 

4 . ffwnff, Jfft ffrif far, ffro R° fa<> To ^ Kcpim irtff 
ftrTTr-Jjfarilt t faff fafafa fa rtrara ffarfr^nRtft fa 

5RR far JifaRff 4r faff XElffa HIT q-fatT S; 

5. fafaff sfri’T) fa Ti fafaq‘1 fa fam 

5r«fa itgijriri 

fafa 

fao eft 0 !fT fafatfaRTR- faTjfarr (#[a fro RT faTRT fafaTff), 

Tff 1 fa fa, 1 9 77 if faff ffff* fa Wffff % faff 

tffafa vgfa 1 

[ffo IS 74 (fao ffo 203/ 1 8 8 / 7 6-WT$ fa ff-II) ] 

S.O. 2948. — It is hereby notified for general information 
ihut ihe institution mentioned below has been approved by 
ihe Indian Council of Social Science Research, the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clause (ii) of sub-section (1) 
of section 35 of Lhe Income-tax Act, 1961, subject to the 
following conditions 


faff falffllT [fa ffifaWff, fft ffafa 

Tit fa'-j*[ffffT fftfafaff fa mifa iffafffi faxrfasi ffffiHspfa 
T^fa I 

fas 187 3 (firs ffo 2113 / 87/77 faf fa ff 11] 

S.O. 2947.— It is hereby uoiified for general information that 
the institution mentioned below has been approved by Indian 
Council of Medical Research, the prescribed authority for the 
g.) G 1/77— 2 


1. The funds collected by the Foundation under this 

exemption will be capitalized and used for instituting 
fellowships at the Readers level in the field of social 
science in selected Indian Universities. 

2. These fellowships would be operated by ihe Founda- 

tion on the advice of a Committee of eminent social 
scientists set up in consultation with the l.C.S.S.R. 
and with the representative of the l.C.S.S.R., thereoD. 

3. The Foundation submits an annual report on the ope- 

ration of this scheme to the l.C.S.S.R. and 



341 4 THE GAZETTE OF IMDfA ; SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASV1NA 2, If 99 [Part 11-Sec. 3(iiJ} 


4. The Foundation may, with the approval of the 

I.C.S.S.R. transfer the funds for these fellowships if 
it so desired to the universities concerned, for mana- 
gement and operation, 

5, That the Foundation shall maintain separate accounts 

of the funds collected by them under the exemption. 

INSTITUTION 

D. P. DHAR MEMORIAL FOUNDATION, NEW DELHI. 

This notification takes effect for a period of three years 
from 1st April, 1977. 

[No. 1874 (F. No. 203/188/76-irA.Tl] 
4 tr°«rr° 2949. — mfarsrrcT 4 ft Trwft ft ffti nfftnfftr 

fion stitt ft fV fVfftr RTfft47r), pxrift xrPTfw trot Pottr tfj - 
tftnr Rfftrq; ft fftr^pTftrd ftw 4ft wnr-tr xrfftfftTT, 19 bi 
ftt «n7T 35 4ft ttwFt ( t) ft (III) ft srtfrrftlf ft: ffti 
fftrrWftrR ftftT rt fftm ft, w*t1ft — 

(i) fft fftvrfftirrwir yrn jr yz ft: wefur 
fttoft-T Trfftnff 47 OTRrir ttwhrdt fftrur ftfft47R% 
far jftfftWT TPTIIT; 

(ii) Tf[ fa tErnr fftTRffttrmT, spitfnf tn % srtftR rfr 
TT fftrtft 47 fftwr 1«PP ftT^RT; 

(iii) *njfft Ttw fftinrtfnrm RxfttRf tjr ft: *nft;rtftr#7 
fafftrf 4ft, «ft7 Tft tftfft trfftRt 4rrft gt{ fftRft fftftnfr 
4R TnfPr fftnp w ft, tpf 4Tfft4r W)f Rnrftr trot 
fwtr ffftn; 4ft ftftTT I 

tfWT 

ftjTTR ffttTRfftWTTR, RvfttR? 

RT xtftr^rr 1 - 4-1977 ftsuruft ft 1 

[ft° 1 875 (Tlo 20 3/3<>/7 7-WTt tl ill)] 
jfo <ft a pitf, ^ 


S.O. 2949. — It is hereby notified for general information 
that the institution mentioned below has been approved by 
the Indian Council of Social Science Research, the prescribed 
authority for the purposes of clause (iii) of sub-section (1) 
of Section 35 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, subject to the 
following conditions 

1. The funds collected by the Punjab University, Chandi- 

garh, under this exemption will be utilised exclusively 
for promotion of research in Social Sciences ; 

2. That the Punjab University, Chandigarh shall main- 

tain separate accounts of the funds collected by them 
under the exemption ; 

3. That the Punjab University, Chandigarh, shall send an 

Annual Report to Ihc Indian Council of Social 
Science Research, New Delhi, showing the lunds 
collected under the exemption and the manner in 
which Ihe funds were utilised. 

INSTITUTION 

THE PUNIAB UNIVERSITY, CHANDIGARH. 

This notification h effective from 1-4-1977. 

[No. 1875(F. No. 203/30/77-1TA. II] 
J. P. SHARMA, Dy. Secy. 


(unwftrmn) 

tnftvr 

ffft ffttfTr, 3 ffttTWfT, 197 7 
*71*7 

4Tto *TU 2950, — RH7rR*rT*R wfaffthR, 1899 ( 1899 47 2) 
4ft HTTT 9 4ft TR-trm ( 1 ) % 4PJ4 (4t) OTTT 5TTT mrfftpff 
47 aftiR 4:7ft Jl ftnffT 7T47T, ’('U jrn , 77 4JRT 4ft RTT 
4T7tft ft, ftt 4:4iT4r TOT fftfflT fftTR, WTrTt BTTT tft fift ftftw 
RT4T TRt? JJ4T % RTfftfifr fttTf t Tt ft TIT> fVtT Ttft 4Tft WTj- 

Rftf rtttt; wfafftTR ft: xpoftr tr»mf ft i 

[ftRRT 2 2/7 7-F7rR/RT° ftw 33 / 6 1/77 fftftt 4T*] 
77° Tto Tr7*4T7t, XKC 7 fft 4 

(Department of Revenue) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3rd September, 1977 
STAMPS 

S.O. 2950.— In exercise of Ihe powers conferred by clause 
(a) of sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 
1899 (2 of 1899) the Central Government hereby remits the 
duty with which the bonds in the form of promissory notei 
to the value of two hundred and twenty lakhs of rupees to 
be issued by the Karnataka State Financial Corporation. 
Bangalore, are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 22/77-Stamps-F. No. 33/61 /77-ST 

S. D. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy 

(srrfSfui 4tm Drum ) 

(#fftPTJrtrnr) 

ffftfaMV, 31 4ETFT, 1977 

WTo mo 2931. — jf'fiRR’ft firffttpET wfafftw, 1949 ( 1949 
47 10 ) 4ft RT7T 53 JTTT 5FPT Tfftwf 47 STOpT 47tft jfCf, ftTfrit 
TT47T, RIorflR fftdft 4ft fftRfilftw RT, X^iT^arrTT fttfftT 
ft fft TRtfn; wferfftipT 4 ft uni 1 0 * 4 ft tttttt ( i ) xflr ( 2 ) 
ft; TTWS 1 7ft 1 977 ft 6 ^Tlf, 197 7 74i TW14^ ftft: 

RT Rfttftfftl 

[ft« 1 5(22) ftto IU/ 77 ] 
ft" *TT» ■3fit|l44iT, XT4T RpTr 

(Department of Economic Affairs) 

(Banking Division) 

New Delhi, the 31st August, 1977 

S.O. 2951. — In exercise of powers conferred by section 5 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), ti 
Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserv 
Bank of India, hereby declare that the provisions of sul 
sections (1) and (2) of section 10B of the said Act, shall n< 
apply to the Ratnakar Bank Ltd., from 1st May 1977 to th 
6th July 1977. 

[No. I5(22)-B.O, IH/7 
M. B, USGAONKAR, Under Sec 
wf fkwft, 2 fftrwr, ! 9 7 7 

47"«T» 295 2 — 4ftt (JTR7* fffftvf ^nFW) 
Fftftff, 1970 ft! 8 ft: TRtm (l) ftt 77W Rftr 3 ft 



■TOT 4ft WP* : foftWrc 24, 1977/«TTftTT 2, 1899 


3415 


II— vu 3 ( ii)] 

1TTWT (T) % <FJ*TOT ft, toftiT THAUT, WRifrw fftf 

ft TTHfirf 95fft % wmi ftft^ITO «ft ft) 0 f 0 4ftftW 4ft , 3 fftft*WT, 
1977 ft xtroff (jtm 2 fftRTrc, 1978 4fttrRi c ff pftwrftt ft)T 

Wfft ft far? ftffri VV % 5 Tf 7 U ft^VPP ft W t JIT: fWl 

4TOft I I 


[ft® rrtfto 9/l3/7 7-ftt 8 Tt I ( 1 ) ] 

New Delhi, the 2nd September, 1977 

S.O. 2952. — In pursuance of sub-clause (a) of clause 3, lead 
with sub-clause (1) of clause 8, of the Nationalised Bunks 
(Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) Scheme, 1970, the 
Central Government, after consultation with the Reserve Bank 
of India, hereby re-appoints Shri C. E, Kamath as the 
Managing Director of the Canara Bank for a further period 
commencing on 3rd September, 1977 and ending with 2nd 
September, 1978. 


[No. F. 9/13 /77-BO, I (1)] 

4fT®WT® 2933. — ftft (tPFtf ftfr JTfttft fTTO*) 
Plftff, 19 70 ft ART 7 * ATW ifel WOT 5 % IJtprr (l) % 

kpjBRT>r Jr, ftiftfir «rroft«r fftsrft tv ft <rrrm v?v ft 

httth h^jro «fr ftT® f ° vmv vr, fjpf 3 fftdwt, 1977 It 
ftTO fft V WT f-TTttpT ft W9 ft JR: fftijTT; ftufT W Tift 
MTTtW ftftTO tV ftfftfw Wftf % WWW ft ft ffttJT* TTlft 

V 


[if 0 1795 o 0/l3/77-tf® Wt« 1(2)] 

w'Tftr ftr$, ftwn; *rfV< 

S.O. 2953.— In pursuance of sub-clause (1) of clause 5, 
read with clause 7, of the Nationalised Banks (Management 
and Miscellaneous Provisions! Scheme, 1970, the Central 
Government, after consultation with the Reserve Bank of 
India, hereby appoints Shri C. E. Kamath, who has been 
re-appointed as Managing Director of the Canara Bank with 
effect from 3rd September, 1977, to be the Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of the Canara Bank with effect from tho 
same date. 


[No. F. 9/13/77-BO. I (2)] 
BALDF.V SINGH, Jt. Secy. 

*rf fftnftY, r farort, 1977 

4<t® wc® 2 9*4. — yfftw yrfrn' ftipr it«rr fwr*r fftirw wfw- 
Pnm, 1963 ( 19 6 3 «FT 10) 3ft WTO 10 ft *T»T (if) ITTT 

ipm wf*ri«ff <rrr jp/ft iror ftitfftr wftwr ffTTfiro *ft ft® 
ffir ® wror ft ptr T7 yfft ftkfftwTf ft*T*nT, srfftfftwTT ftwfftw 
«fr afro Wf® ft® 7TT 4ft tffiw 'J-rfVtT WWT fftffFT ffttW ft fftftw 
% war if m fa it T'rfft ft I 


(ft® ^W® 14-87/77-trt ftf.] 
4fo 574® WIJTJT, 44 ffIVk 
New Delhi, the 8 th September, 1977 


S.O. 2954. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon it by 
clause (c) of section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance and 
Development Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), the Cen- 
tral Government Hereby nominate Shri G. V. K. Rao, Secre- 
tary, Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture & 
Irrigation, as a Director of the Agricultural Refinance & 
Development Corporation vice Shri K. S. Narang. 

[No, F. 14-67/77- AC] 
V. N. BAHADUR, Dy. Secy. 


wmft* Wrpf tNi 

(ffttift iptr fftftww ftrwiTt ) 

ftitffir Bnrft-w 

WPff , 1 fftlFWT, 19 7 7 

ffioWto 2935, — fftwfftfftm' ft WW 2 ft frif ipf 

grtff if if ipiftf % w-ttot Jr ftrft tv tpT^ffm m ftrftvr TO 
§ farm ft iftw 2 % srfftnt trrwti ft ipiFl iif»i 

3 if fflrfrinT 7T77T if Tt'f ftfiff | 


IK* 

T.R- yof tr fbrw ertfr=t trop ¥r ir<fr wfrnjgm- 

Ifo tTPI 4ff ipff | 

( 0 ( 2 ) (3) 


1 . faftufi F!7 firfffiriFT trf’r- 

fim 1973 ( 1973 45T 48) 
( vn TTPkr "wftffiFFt” 

% A 4 if "JktTGT fwi 1 ITT 

ft) 4?rtrm 2 ^r#T (st) rtt 

FF^urrer 

2 . wfafim 4fr mtr 3 1 ifr 7 t- 

amn ( 1 ) 

3 . wfWFFT nff nrn » vr itv- 

mxr ( 1 ) 

4. erfijBFPT 4?r BTTT 8 9fr U7- 
BT3T ( l) 

3. WfwftTm Rfr IT 77 9 th 

■TO ( l) 

s. xrfTfaFr ift uto 9 4fr vr- 
[trro ( 1 ) ifibt (w) 

7. 4ft WTO 9 4ff W7- 

■TO ( l) 

8 . wfaffnpr 4ft 1TO 9 4ft 39- 

■TO (3) 

#. wttw wwrr, fww 4ai«4 
4ft fW4T45 l Tilt) 19 7 4 
4ft wfagw »fe i / 

1 0 7/fttf)/ 7 3 

10. wftTfftWW 4ft WTO 13 4ft 

trrwro ( 2 ) 

1 1. wfwfftww WTO 1 3 4ft UT- 

■TO (2) 


ftbTtv 1 wffwrf 1974 4 ft trftr 

^PTT Ifo rrtgo ft 0 ern;o 170 
i/74-trnnftr 


fafflr 1 aprarfv 1974 
RftF,[i-rr rjo 17950 fto WT 70 
ffo 2/7 4-ffrT4f 

f^trpr 1 SpTunft 1974 4ft 

wfh’ffW'TT ifo tliHo fo IRTTO 

T® 3 / 74 -msft 

ftrmv 1 spprff 1974 4 ft wftr- 
fto 17950 fo wre® tr 0 
4/7 4-wroff 

^Tt45 1 WiFrtl 1974 4 ft 

wrWgtTTT ifo tr^o fo OTT® 

17 o 5/74-Wrttff 

frrt4T 1 19 74 >lft 

if o 17950 fo tiTk® 
t® 6 / 74 -UK 4 I 

fTO45 1 XffWTf 1974 4ft wrFtj- 

^[WUT fto tpfio fo WTT® 170 

7/74-tfrpff 

fVTPF 1 aprwff 1974 

wfS^arTT ifo t795 0 fo BRo 
ff® 8/74-WTT^r 
ftdlH 1 W'TW'ft 1974 4ft 

Wftt-jTtl fto tT45o fo WTTo 

ft 0 9/74 anrff 

ftlftwr 1 WTTtl 1 9 74 4ft 
wfET^wwr ifo 17950 fo 4rrt> 
ft® io/74-4in:wl' 
fftwt45 1 WftWff 1974 4ft wfft- 
IfWTT if® ftftt® fo WT7® ft® 

1 1/ 7 4-WTTWl 



3416 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 , 1977 /ASVTNA 2 , 1899 [Part 11— Sec. 3 (ii)l 


(i) _ 

i 2. vftrfwr am i 9 ^ Tr- 
am ( i) 

13. 'ffftrfaTm a?r am 2 4 

1 4. wfaf'TJT'r nft am 2 g "ft tt- 
trm( s) 

1 5. arf&frw ift srm 26 vt Tr- 
am (7) 

1 e. ufa f ri T v ft am 29 it Tr- 
am ( 1) 

1 7. rrftrfamr ih am 29 tt tt- 
atrr (3) 

1 a. nrfa f ' -m it am 1 3 a¥t mr- 
(arrr ( 2) 

1 9. afafarnr srm 28 Tt Tr- 
am ( 1) 

20 arfafrm afr am 1 3 ift Tr- 
am ( 2) 

2 1 . nfafanr 13 am 28 ift Tr- 
am ( 1) >KTirr (a) 

22. wfaflm am 26^1 Tr- 

am ( g) 

23. afafwr if trm 1 3 aft 
om ( 2) 

24 . amr aTunr % Em aaraa 
iSt ftpriit 24 gpl 1951 
<tf) wfa^aar rro rpro arro 

Wte 401 [l 2 ( 20 )fo^o 

VII/ 51] 

25 . amr wf % Era warmr 
off fan Iv 25 *arra i 948 i?t 
Arfa^aarrro i 2 (ti)-»”F 0 

1/46 

26 - nmr arrnr % Em rrarmr 
ErIt 25 rrom 1948 
ft afa^rar g® i 2 ( 1 1)- 
gito 1/48 

27 . aftrEmr 4 E am 1 3 4 E tt- 
am ( 2) 

28 . *rmt arfiTT % fan aaimr 

2 5 04^5 1 948 4 E 

aEj^rrao 12(11)- 

RTio l /48 


(a) 

fagfat 1 iRof r 1 9 7 4 1?) afa- 

g;ggT a 0 git o (o rnr o a o 

12/74-amfi 

farm 1 Tam 1074 ih 
srfsrggiT g® aai ® a , to 

g® 13/74-a.Tal 
fagfat 1 1 smrft 1974 iff 
srftnjggr g° * 78 ® t® arr® 
g® iG/74-amfr 
fagfa 1 1 tttA 1974 ft afa- 
Kfa^rrfo 09; o arro g® 
17/74-aTTar 

ErEf 11 trEJ«lT 1974 43 

afai^RT rto gri® ^0 orr® 
g® 22/7 l-arTT^r 
fagfar 2 7 g+m 1971 rE afa- 
gggr g® guo fo mt ; ° g® 
23/74-gmr) 

ErEF 30 TTirE 1975 ft 

afa^A'ir g° gq;® fo ott® 
g® 24/75 -wmrt 
Eriif lorrfar 1975 vr wEa- 
g/ggr g® gq;® f® arr® 7 ° 
27/75-wmft 

Erff 1 3 ErVt 1975 it afa- 

gaar a o gg,o ^® 8F0 g® 

3 3/ 7 5 -arot 

form o gfar 1976 it afa- 

giRi 4 o fto 4 ® am 
g o 3 4 / 7 e-arr 4 t 
fagfn 10 atr 1 97 G it afa- 
gaar #0 gq;® fo mf® go 
35 / 76 /-WmE 

fagfir 10 g$ 1976 »ft aEa- 

it® RFo $o OTT® 
Fo 3 fi/ 7 fl-rrrrar 
fagfa; 4 jrtA 1 9 5 4 <ft aEa- 
gaar to fto arro t° 

1 2 3/ 5 1-amt 

ErEf e aiar 1982 it afa- 

ga(Tt to fho arTTo f 0 
209/ 82-amit 

ErIh 4 ^=nf i 9«3 it afa- 
ga-a to aRo i^o 

223 / 63 -amt 

Ertt mErtar 19 go it aEi- 
gma to rf ^o wro go 
247 / 69 -amfr 

Eata 7 aa 1972 it afagaar 
to mio fo arroFo 2.15/72- 
wrrtt 


(1) (2) (3) 

29 afaEma vt am r it tt- ftaFr 7 ai^T 1972 afa- 

apr ( 1) attorn 73 it gmn t® mio fo amo a 0 
■aram (3) 25G/73-amfr 

30 wfaEiaa^ am 9 ^r m- Eatu 7 aitsp 1972 it afa- 

am ( 1) «ftwt (u) gaar go ngj^ f c atro g 0 

257/72-amt 

[to ggio fo ayro go 45/77-apio tto] 
qto giro arErar, tt ggtr 
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
(Exchange Control Department) 

CENTRAL OFFICE 
Bombay, the 1st September, 1977 

S O- 2953- — -In pursuance of each of tho provisions set out 
In column 2 of the following Schedule the Reserve Bank hereby 
directs that the notification mentioned in column 3 of the said 
Schedule against each provision in column 2 thereof shall, with 
immediate effect, extend to the State of Sikkim. 


SCHEDULE 


Sr. Provisions under which 

No. extension is made 

Notification which 
ded 

is exten- 

(1) (2) 

(3) 



1. Explanation to clause (j) of 
section 2 of the Foreign Ex- 

FERA. 1/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

change Regulation Act 1973 
(46 of 1973) (hereinafter re- 
ferred to as “the Act”). 

2. Sub-section (1) of section 

31 of tho Act. 

FERA. 2/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

3, Sub-section (1) of section 

8 of the Act. 

FERA, 3/74- RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

4. Sub-section (1) of section 

8 of the Act. 

FERA. 4/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

5. Sub-section(l) of section 

9 of the Act. 

FERA. 5/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

6. Clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Act. 

FERA. 6/74-RB 
January 1974, 

dated 

1st 

7. Sub-section (FI of section 

9 of the Act. 

FERA. 7/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

8. Sub-section (3) of section 

9 of the Act. 

FERA. 8/74- RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

9. Government of India, Minis- 
try of Finance, Notification 

FERA. 9/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

No. F.I/107/EC/73 dated 1st 

January 1974, 

1 0. Sub-section (2) of Section 

13 of the Act. 

FERA. 10/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

11. Sub-section (2) of section 

13 of the Act. 

FERA. 1 1/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

12. Sub-section (1) of section 

19 of the Act. 

FERA. 1 2/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

1st 

13. Section 24 of the Act. 

FERA. 13/74-RB 
January 1974, 

dated 

1st 

14. Sub-section (6) of section 

26 of the Act, 

FERA. 16/7 ARB dated lltli 

January 1974. 

15. Sub-section (7) of section 

26 of the Act. 

FERA. 1 7/74-RB 
January 1974. 

dated 

nth 



3417 


[*jfpr II — a(ii)] 


aka Pf ttaw . fan wit 24 , iy77/3rTf^r^ 2 , ihoo 


16. Sub-section (1) of section 
29 of the Act. 

17. Sub-section (3) of Section 
29 of the Act. 

18. Sub-section (2) of section 
13 of the Act. 

19. Sub-section (l) of section 
28 of the Act. 

20. Sub-section (2) of Section 
13 of the Act. 

21. Clause (c) of sub-section 0) 
of section 28 of the Act, 

22. Sub-section (6) of section 
26 of the Act. 

23. Sub-section (2) of section 
13 of the Act, 

24. Government of India, Mi- 
nistry of Finance Notifica- 
tion No. SRO, 401 [12(20) 
EF. VII/51] dated 24th 
March 1951 , 

25. Government of India, Mi- 
nistry of Finance Notifica- 
tion No. 12 (11 )-Fl/48 dated 
25th August 1948. 

26. Government of India, Mi- 
nistry of Finance Notifica- 
tion No. 12 (1D-F1/48 dated 
25th August 1948. 

27. Sub-section (2) of section 
13 of the Act. 

28. Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance Noti- 
fication No. 12 (11 )-F 1 /48 
dated 25th August 1948. 

29. Sub-section (I) of section 
8 and sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 73 of the Act. 

30. Clause (b) of sub-scction(l) 
of section 9 of the Act. 


3 

FERA, 22/74-RB dated 11th 
October 1974. 

FERA. 23/74-RB dated 27th 
November 1974. 

FERA. 24/75-RB dated 30th 
January 1975. 

FERA. 27/75-RB dated 19th 
April 1975. 

FERA. 33/75-RB dated 13th 
December 1975. 

FERA. 34/76-RB dated 6th 
March 1976. 

FERA. 35/76-RB dated 10th 
April 1976. 

FERA. 36/76- RB dated 10th 
May 1976. 

FERA, 1 23/54-RB dated 4th 
January 1954. 


FERA. 208/62-RB dated Sth 
November 1962. 


FERA. 223/63-RB dated 4th 
July 1963. 


FERA. 247/69- RB dated 10th 
December 1969. 

FERA. 255/72-RB dated 7th 
June 1972. 


FERA. 256/72-RB dated 7th 
October 1972. 

FERA. 257/72-RB dated 7th 
October 1972. 


[No. FERA, 45/77-RB] 
P. R. NANGIA, Dy. Governor. 


«riVnfi % fiiftj if sft wTiisiT AV Amt fA*TT4 if 

Atka ft, hPTATt-h fl i tVa i' -H t wp A TPAifr pw a aspta -nta- 
nbr atskp wfarar fafsr (papa Aatt) fptpr, ihuo AATa AAr- 
£TA apA % fspr. r-lMhlNfi fAAA AAT4 ft, WAtA : — 

1. ( l) T4 ftprot PT APT ATtfRP vrftpstf firftl (AnltA APIA) 
a\ at mfftpr firtpr. 1977 ft 1 

(2) A N ARpft, 19 7 5 PUf^A f T TPTfl AfTA I 

2 . qjtjrptT aPtht W«r (A^tia ttwr) fwf, i960 if, 

fiwtf j.i A trytfTff, fiPAfAhsTT fAw fAdr pwpr, 

paTa : — 

" 33 -p fipthr jf*r; Aftfi tATa — srf'trjrtfr Aft tj=A tc 
pf-fTPr! % tPfr tnA tpa sfr^A pt% if; ?tptk *Aftp Ar, 
AST pftfprh sra, tiff 5?! A itp /(ftAAf :i 

at A ?Vr pap Amr ifptAA pFAwa A pFaFAp 

TAP Pr PTfA, fPRfAfmA PA* A TltflW Tiff faqr ^fAir, 

tpri^ 

(p) rdf Af'4TPfr A AAPSTA if pFAAt ’JAPT t^Pf A AW 
A tAp yftpff 3 pft A ThrA, ofwii A 

ptf 4fttjff4T ArfeA : — 

(i) 7 A wfAjrdt At TPr A (Add tapa! 3 pt A) 
AAfA A Wfappr -APT A. A AT AT AKA fpAt ft 
fAdA AdRfW rr wFstpaa i:iou pat at aFaa 
ft, 300nrwtf; 

(ii) AA pfviTPft Ar tpt A hr 4ft paAp spa Ar 
ArfA A wFhpr »m A tat a? ppp fppr ft 
hrAA ptpapt pr sAuim 9 on if at at pFstp 
ft, fAsj moo ptt A pa ft, 2500 w*; 

(iii) AA wf'*mAf At apt A hwft pttFp 3 tA Ar 
waFa A rIwk rpt A, Apr at um fAAT ft 

ftpTP ^44444 Pr XlfpPAlT 291) W* Af PPA 
qfpp ft fAsj 9011 KAT A PA ft. 1.500 Wf I 

(iv) A A wfATPfr Ar apt A hm para; 3 qA r 

PATH A wfsrfftn: «fPT A. Aw AT UTPA ffTAT ft 

> 

hmA AwTAR 44 wfeWTA 290 WfP A 4W ft, 

1 000 ^ t> 

(m) TP fPAP A 5futd Aid 5lfAfp5f TATA 1U,000 ATP 
A ApPE dftrftfAl ; 


(Department of Accounts and Expenditure) 

Bombay, fhe Sth September, 1977 


(A) t[P| A AAA AT) AfATTAf dA ATT PA A PA 5 qA 
ftlAt ATfftA I 


CORRIGENDUM 

S.O. 2956. — In the statement of affairs of the Issue Depart- 
ment as on 15th July 1977, published in Part If — Section 3(ii) 
of the Gazelle of India dated 27th August 1977, the following 
Corrigendum may be noted on page 2862, the figures 
Rs. 1271.73,93,000 under the head “Foreign Securities” may 
be read as Rs. 127 1, 73,97, 0O0. 

I Reference Gen. No. 152/4-77 /78J 
K. SUBRAMANfAN, P. Chief Accountant 

(«AA ftfXfTA ) 

dftfAwr, -5 fAPHR, 1977 

Vt ° 3fT°2957 — AfAHPT A 3 09 PAV^Pht^ AW"5T 

14 9 A W ( 5) TKT ATW Olbwff Pf AAfA PAT |T, AK 


fTpfp-i — A taa aIAAa pfAnAt At jjw A ata A ^awf 3 a 
ata A A Afftp A At A pfATTAi A ward A Afp- 
Pa A atott av fAprpr Tiftpfr i aa aataa A fop, 
At v 3 , at fAF^rd wapa pfpifhtr pi ait pta A Fat 

'At — 

(p) atH A wa A pfdPA A Fata u A p^ak 
AAPTlA Pt Aft TTtPP tAnr AF«fFAd fttAt , Pft^ 

(p) aFt ’ipf '6 3 6 apt A A aP-ih ata apt Aijrt ft At, 
AA pfiTA ATA A AA A aFAAa A, PA fAfftA 
TP P AKT'O A, hmArj^ ft, -3^ wfidA ATA 
A AA AP Ar TPffff At TT'T'T ^THf AFPffifA 
ftpfl I 



3418 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, I977/ASV1NA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(H)} 


fernm- 2 — w ^ tftt *r sfnrr ; 

qfg What T5PT if 5IT Vtf TFf ^rftR’f^rT^T ft ft) 
w; if yirtPpT f*P5TT 'jrr^*TT ( so 3*rf 
Tf 1 wn fffiTT arrtr’TT ) I 

fcnm-3 — ITT ^5Pr % Wtff'T Tlftl ^mr-q-T $ *T 4 ft I 

SfTf: fafij 'Wfafwi, 1 925 (1925 TT lftj 

4?i ottt 3 srro fcn *ptt tttstw, *fi*t t xwtT irt 
< i N4 f TtfrnT Ttffijhrn 

few r m -4 — it? oftp fafu % tr xrfarifiFn *it 4t rt<t fthrr ft 
3 ft fftwT ut^rt fr^nr $ Epfft if tEtIrt Hr tit 
Sfr n (H i i ff fptt farf) *PRff sb PTFrRffq' ¥ T 

ftn; ifi^ % ift 4if nqPTpTTnr IT, Itft F?rr yrr 

Ptp?t %■ *r^jp ii r if, sr Enurf *k aFjRR tt Erfb 
it xifmrtff TRft Enm ft i 

f£r<m-5 — 5^- ffrrtrrtt art Tf T7TT if fR% ERR 3 5 EPTff 

s s-ip % wsffq, Erfa % 'fnP Srt fftRT *r*rr 
ft, fapWft jjfJT 'n^nfFKrFr’ 3 iw y) k'Et 
| r ^ s^RT FtRt if^if TtErEr Ef TFT 
ir 5 *b iRt 'jTr ftrb % 3ft ft) ttwi ft, jftqqf 
fmroror % trthff ttpEi for w*rftr Enwf trt 
3 *r% tErr sfri: Epfrm % affrcnr, Ttf iff. sttt ^ 
j tpi utr ftt qq pf, tu v sflr ff ^ srffTTfff % 
Err tort if sff Timf) 1 

(»sr) fmpr wgfsi ftr iftHTT it Ettat fot( ffff ®pf»pff 

<T pun if sfrr 'iTpT4TfTT *RT EP[5T «rEfi»ff 

)ff T5TT if, Pfff Epjfpfi *TT Pff T/llRtfhiR T) 
?rpffw r ^ »rS iw^»r Pm ifcspffaRf ftjpro 
iron" if *Tf 'SfTcnff I 

(it) ^ ptPt PtHtt * srrtrrc Trf^ fttr ^ *rf)ffff 
Pp RET ^ t 1 

[ %c qBT-6 — tpfPT m' ^ 5IRWT 'TTT srfP- 

iprft JPT ^TTT Ppr afTpif aft Ptfq #r TW afTT % 
pTt gTITPrsff | I STSTJ HTTTO WU 3T#T PT 

OTTT P Wft yt TPf ffflr if ^TR PPT Tip' fpT PPf 
if ^ imr Pr^n wf ft? Prt irmiRT 4 tk f^rr 
tiP p r 

welpiTty pni 

^nuTRT tPtt Prftr (^nffq PttP) Pm, i960 P Ppufm 

B SpRpf , 19 75 P 'TTTSff 5T»1TT P Pl'P TT Tft ft T'P’fPi PT^T 

iTOf 4 irt ^ffr, frn *Pnm (mfftm) ^ mPrr irm 4o 

rn?To e( 10)-i(«ff)/73 tPPt s TT^Pf, 1975 P ^wiTpPT 
Bp Tf wft I TT Pmf % P Wp, 1 97 5 P 'fRtft W P 

tpt Pmt ttP P fftmf nfsmft tt ^Pf stPept m ttP tP 

Tfr J: i 

[po TiT« 13( lb)-trf («P)/7lV3flo pfo it^o] 
Krm <fTT TPT JRTlttffT 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 

S.O. 2957. — In exercise of the powern conferred by the 
proviso to Article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 of the 
Constitution, and after consultation with the Comptroller 
and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in the 


Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the General Provi- 
dent Fund (Central Sen ices) Rules, 1960, namely : — 

1, (1) These rules may be called the General Provident 
Fund (Central Services) Fourth Amendment Rules, 1977. 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force on 
the 8th day of January, 1975. 

2. In the General Provident Fund (Central Services) 
Rules, 1960, after rule 33, the following rule shall bo inserted, 
namely : — 

"33-A Deposit-linked Insurance Scheme. — On the- death of 
a subscriber, the person entitled to receive the amount stand- 
ing to the credit of the subscriber shall be paid by the 
Account Officer an additional amount equal to the average 
balance in the account during the 3 years immediately pre- 
ceding the death of such subscriber, subject to the condition 
that — 

(a) the balance at the credit of such subscriber shall 
not at any time during the 3 years preceding the 
month of death have fallen below the limits of — 

(i) Rs. 3000/- in the case of a subscriber who has 
held, for the greater part of the aforesaid perioc 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pal 
scale of which is Rs. 1300, or mote ; 

(ii) Rs 2500 in the case of a subscriber who has 

held, for the greater part of the aforesaid perioc 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pay 

scale of which is Rs. 900 or more but less thar 

Rs. 1300 ; 

(iii) Rs, 1500 in the case of subscriber who has 

held, for the greater part of the aforesaid perioc 
of three years, a post the maximum of the paj 

scale of which is Rs. 290 or more but less thar 

Rs. 900 ; 

(iv) Rs. 1000 in the case of a subscriber who has 

held, for tho greater part of the aforesaid period 
of three years, a post the maximum of the paj 
scale of which is less than Rs. 290 ; 

(b) the additional amount payable under this rule shal 

not exceed Rs. 10,000 ; 

<c) the subscriber has put in atlcast 5 vears service at 
the time of his death. 


Note 1. — The average balance shall be worked out on the 
basis of the balance at the credit of the subscriber at the 
end of each of the 36 months preceding the month in which 
the death occurs. For this purpose, as also for checking the 
minimum balances prescribed above- 

la) the balance at the end of March shall include the 
annual interest credited in terms of rule 11 ; and 

(b) if the last of the aforesaid 36 months is not March, 
Ibe bnlancc at the end of the said last month shall include 
interest in respect of the period from the beginning of the 
financial year in which death occurs to the end of the said 
last month. 

Note 2. — Payments under this scheme should be in whole 
rupees. If an amount due includes a fraction of a rupee, 
it should be rounded to the nearest rupee, (50 poise counting 
as the next higher rupee). 

Note. 3.-— any sum payable under this scheme is in the 
nature of insurance-money and, therefore, the statutory pro- 
tection given hy section 3 of the Provident Fund Act. 1925 
(Act 19 oF 1925) does not apply to sums payable under this 
scheme. 

Note 4. — -This scheme also applies to those subscribers tc 
the Fund who are trmislened to an autonomous organisa- 
tion consequent upon conversion of a Government Depart- 
ment into such a body and who, on such transfer, opt, In 



f [mp II— qm n(ii)] 


'PUT 'FT TUtW : FTTRR 24, 1 977/dfrftoff 2, 1899 


3419 


terms of option given to them, to subscribe to this Fund 
in accoidance with these rules, 

Note 5.— (a) In case of a Government servant who has 
been admitted to the benefits of the Fund under rule 35 
or rule 35-A, but dies before completion of three years 
service or, as the case may be, five years service from the 
date of his admission to the Fund that period of his service 
under the previous employer in respect whereof the amount 
of his subscriptions and the employer’s contribution, if any, 
together with interest have been received, shall count for 
purposes of clause (a) and clause (c). 

db) Tn case of persons appointed on tenure basis and in 
the case of re-cmploycd pensioners, service rendered from 
the date of such appointment or re-employment, as the case 
may he, only will count for purposes of this rule, 

(c) This scheme does not apply to persons appointed on 
contract basis. 

Note 6. — The budget estimates of expenditure in respect 
of this scheme will be prepared by the Accounts Officer res- 
ponsible for maintenance of the accounts of the Fund having 
regard tn the trend of expenditure, in the same manner as 
estimates are prepared for other retirement benefits." 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 

The. General Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 
1960 arc being amended retrospectively with effect from 8th 
Tanuary, 1975 as the deposit-linked insurance scheme was 
introduced with effect from that date vide Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Expenditure) O.M. No. F. 9(10)-EV(B) /73, 
dated the 8th January, 1975. No officer is likely to be 
adversely affected by these rules being given retrospective 
effect from 8-1-1975. 

TNo. F. 13(10)-EV(B) /76-GPF] 

VTo *rto 2958.-- tffaUTff % Xfffwte 309 % prqjrp *ffa; 

xcr^a 149 % ar^r ( 5 ) am srcvr urHtffrt tn tpfrq qmf yp, 
xfrc ^q wrfoprff afr rTRFSf *f ift wHIff SmurffstT xftr Sp»T 
fawr if flrmr & 'Rfarv 4 'mini qn-q % 

Turjqfq xNmtft 'ffWq ffffff (ffmr) x 9 1 ; 3 ij xfir 
miftvFr qmT q: far, fan fa Pan fqqq qqr4 xr«tip. — 

1 - ( 1 ) vt Pw*ff <pt ffTu surma) wfaxq faftr qjtoi *jufrtrq 
fmFT (xrmr), 1977^1 

( 2 ) 4 8 TTrff, 197 5 q 4 TfT Jff TF# THpif I 

2 . snrnqi xrFqwr fqftr fqqq ('amt), 1902 f f4qq 35 

qr trjitt, FTtqFrbfT fhqq xrr:T«nfTq f^mr xip-iii xrqTT : — 

“ 35 -qt Wir qwrj 4lffT Fqfiq — STfqqrqf qff xjitj it, rqfq- 
anff % ffHl-«tTd TVff 41' M »'<') ®p T qgTUfi qrf, 5P5T Xjftr- 
qqfi am 44 xrfqyufr qff % sm pdadf 3 q 4 % abrnr 
qqqr Tmrr 4 sffqq srfwr dr *r*r^w TtvE qqrq qff Paur 
fHTqfafaH ipfT % xtubr Tg4 gp fimn - 'TTpqT xpqfp - 

(q?) 44 xrfwffl ^ srpstt 4 wfVbr qqq4 % urtr 

% #IT 3 art % ^FTff, PjrffFjfrjff TTftTffl % 

•FU ngl gTHT qifgp - 

( 1 ) 44 wFw4t qff am 4 Dmq qqfm: 3 a4 qft 

xtafu % xrfqqmr vrpr 4, Wr py srmq | 

faffC dffffffM qrr srftrqmT 1300 x 50 qr rnFenr xfr 

3000 

( 2) 44 Xffffmft qff am if f4q4 -jqxlff, 3 a4 qff 

xnrfir % xrfuqmr mq 4 4m qy (rmi fqnp * 

(trpF 4hH H IH m xrftmrq yoo qo UT XjftFP 

Fmj i 3 oo wT n-qrff 2500 wt; 


(3) ift sfvfFf) rqTr twt ir gffdrB 3 ffi vf 
srqfu ip xrfipup; fft 4, fpn srrm fqnrT | 
fqr fqrtrqr qqqinff qu xrfffqmr 290 Fqq qr 
xrhrqr ^ fqa^ 900 tfqriT 1500 tmr 1 

( 4) u% xrftmxlr qrl am 4 faxth ht j itt; 3 ^ 
xtaftr % wftpFffT crPT if, ffrn Tt trrnir PfNT $ 
h)R% 5-tffffTff qr xifuqmr 290 wf 4 qfft 

1 u 0 0 wj ; 

(w) aff fffffff % xttlfff xtffffm; tspar 10,000 wf 
xrftjqr ffjl rffiff ; 

(u) % wm iqqt xthomf) qir »m qnr it qrr 5 nt 

?r 4 t Trfor | 

f%np>r 1 -xftffff ufaqtff XtfwTRT #^87 qm 5P rjxfalff 
3 0 >TFr ij h- uT^qr % wrq if xif’ffqTq)' v -qtiFarff t uFpfhr % 
XTTUTT ffr fn*r, r 'i i infill I tpr srqrff-T T ffjTf O • 3.4" J Pxfrtd 
a[WI xiffftWf qlt Trhq qrr% qv ffrrr xf) — 

(qr) ^ xen ff wbuik 4 tern 1 1 % xpjtrrr ^Huaid 
qff nt qrftnr wmr fffoif'tq ?Fft- xfk 
(qr) qfsr 30 fft 4 ff stfmr mq ffr4 rnff % tit, 
:jhi xtf^PT nnr % xmr % wfHvFr 4, th f^ftq qu % 

JTPrr'T tJ, faFFl tfW jf ? 1 T 5 flfmr ffPT XP 7 J qqi 

q?t xprfh qfV wfpt «m iqfkqfqq gpft 1 
fturnft 2 — ^ UTTff yj) qqrff if iflfft qTf^tJ I 
qfe pfnar qqur ir wp qr qfrf m qUarfirff ^ ?ft «r fqqrr?PT 
tfqn* 4 ^ u r?(q * f 1 fqnqr 3 TTmrT ( 50 4 ftf T) 1 pqqq firAT 7 TPFTT ) l 

ftrqrq 3 — pff rsptff qt firm ttPt 4rffr qr qq q; rpt ^ 

^ i xpr: rrFrar fhfq qffhqjr, 1025 (1925 qri 9 ) qf)um 3 
am Ptoi xftt rfTwq, rq^W ^ xpFpt 4%q xrfqpTt qT qpj n rfl 
^Tffr 1 

ftvqqff 4 — r? Pitff Rrftr qt tt wfmjTfqqf qfr «fJ m 1 ! sftfl 
$ xjr heft trmrf) finm d; tqqaq q TfrafirT fqqr % 
qfwffprm hmt tqquft rpreff qrf mFTtqfpq qrr fan ^rrt ? 
rqVr qfr fjfJf W(IHhO| qq, qrf f?r qp fqqrpq ip xpjrmq Jf,’ 
Tq fqrnff % nt^un: fu fqF^ 'ttfwrw <rr% qq hmnr qir^ )r 1 
ftwpjft 5— tfw qft Wi Sr f 7 i% fhxrff 35 xflr 
fqqrr 35 -T % Sfflff, fqftr % qqxrt q?n Fffarc fro mrr t 
fTmqft rpgr, qxnftqbr, 3 xpt iPn it! ^1 ^ ^ xuaffr Prfq 4 
jrfjqrfkpT fVp qnrf q?I qrft'T t 5 4 q?f iw jfl % 
5# ijt ^rafl fTffWP qr xt 4 fq ijqqir dm qfr as waftr, 

Fmqff trm mri 1 >fff»TTnf 7 tt xfrr fhxfupr % wfqqpft qfa qftf 
gl, sqnr % qpq srm iff up jf, srur q? wh; ranry q «p 9 'Ox Hi % 
Frp pnprr *r 47 mpui 1 

(q*-) frppT xtafu % XtraTT TT FpJTp Fpp qp qqfrwf qfi qqn 
it tflr jqFrqiFjpr dqirnarn «a( 4 > 4 l' qfi asu if qaer 
qpff fffffFwt ^ jqFwiJR xri qniqr if # q| ^raT 
tq fwr qr mti tadt qr Frp qqi hi if 4i xrpxfT 1 

(q) qg FTiq FfTw % XfluTT PT fqpqr; ppp qp qqftfiqf qf) 
TTPjqgf ^ 1 

fbqqfi o--?q jfpiq q?r ymr xqq % miwhh tt 
qrftjqrfi am forrr Fpt qnffii qfi Wet qr nJ mq q> f4p ott- 

qpfr ^ I Ffr ffppmq sqq rpf JTfrfq qff sqrff P 331^ jjp 
pqi Tifq if dqrr firp mpq fpq fffq if im fqqir Kma’l 
Frp mwr ftpiq fqrp imi $ i” 



3420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part H— Sec. 3(ii)^ 


ijwrt vrf^if faftr Em (»rr j 7T), i y fi 2 tt m fftirerr s 

T -TAT , If] 7 5 *3 ffmft T<TR ?r fCq SIT 7jt f ifitEf Ep^t 

*rwnff ifi-trr thEjt, Err tEmrq (m Ew) % i#Tr jttr 

WT Eli 9 ( 1 0 ) -f Tf (4T), 7 :<, TUEl 8 spRff, 1475 ff T-T: 
wrltpr q?r irf *ft 1 tt f™'T % 8 tprTt, ttm E ^Rrsfr 

war ff srnj; farm rr E frEt ffftpFrff t r T hEftt to 
91% qE tfarpprr ff#r 1 1 

[jfa ITOfi 13( 1 o)-^-V ) / 7 <5 -^Prf= l fE‘3Trrf7o] 

UPo mpo rrafo Of, PlOy 


S.O. 1958.— In exercise of ihc powers conferred by 
the proviso to article 309 and clause i(5) of article 148 
of the Constitution, and after consultation with the Comp- 
troller and Auditor General in relation to persons serving in 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, the President 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Con- 
tributory Provident fund Rules (India), 1962, namely ; — 

1. (1) These rules may he called the Contributory Pro- 
vident Fund Fourth Amendment Rules (India), 1977. 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 
8th day of January, 1975. 

2. In the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 

1962, after rule 35, the following rule shall be inserted, 

namely • 

“35- A Deposit-linked Insurance .Scheme. — On the death of 
a subscriber, the person entitled to receive the amount stand- 
ing to the credit of the subscriber shall be paid by the 

Accounts Officer an additional amount equal to the average 
balance in the account during the 3 years immediately pre- 
ceding the death of such subscriber, subject to the conditions 
that— 

(a) the balance at the credit of such subscriber shall 
not at any time during the 3 years preceding the 
month of death have fallen below the limits of — 

(i) Rs. 3000/- in the case of a subscriber who has 
held, for the greater pail of the aforesaid period 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pay 

scale of which is Rs. 1300/- or more ; 

Ifii) Rs. 2500/- in the case of u subscriber who has 
held, for the greater pail of the aforesaid period 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pay 
scale of which is Rs. 900/- or more but less than 
Rs. 1300/-; 

(iii) Rs. 1500/- iu the case of subscriber who has 
held, for the greater purl of the aforesaid period 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pay 
scale of which is Rs, 290/- or more but less 
than Rs. 900/- ; 

(iv) Rs. 1000/- in the case of a subscriber who has 
held, for the greater part of the aforesaid period 
of three years, a post the maximum of the pay 
scale of which is less than Rs. 290/-. 

(h) the additional amount payable, under this rule shall 
not exceed Rs. 10,000/- ; 

(c) the subscriber has put in atleast 5 years service 
at the time of his death. 

Note 1 The average balance shall be worked out on the 
basis of the balance at the credit of the subscriber at the 
end of each of the 36 months preceding the month in which 


th» death occurs. For this purpose, as also for checking the 
minimum balances prescribed above — 

(a) the. balance at the end of March shall include the 
annual interest ciedited in terms of rule 12, and 

(b) if the last of the aforesaid 36 months is not March, 
the balance at the end of the said last month shall include 
interest in respect of the period from ihe beginning of the 
financial year in which death occurs to the end of the said 
last month. 

Note 2. — Payments under this scheme should be in whole 
rupees. If an amount due includes a fraction of a rupee, 
it should be rounded to the nearest rupee, (50 paise count- 
ing as the next higher rupee). 

Note 3. — Any sum payable under this scheme is in the 
nature of insurance-money and, iheiefore, the statutory pro- 
tection given by section 3 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 
(Act 19 of 1925) does not apply to sums payable under 
this scheme. 

Note 4. — This scheme also applies to those subscribers to 
the Fund who are transferred to an autonomous organisation 
consequent upon conversion of a Government Department 
into such a body and who, on such transfer, opt, in terms 
of option given to them, to subscribe to this Fund in ac- 
cordance with these rules. 

Note 5 — (a) Tn case of a Government servant who has 
been admitted to the benefits of the Fund under sub-rule (3) 
or sub-rule (41 of rule 4 but dies before completion of three 
yeais service or, as the case may be, five years service from 
the date of his admission to (he Fund, that period of his 
service under the previous employer in respect w'hereof the 
amount of his subscriptions and the employer’s contribution, 
if any, together with interest have been received, shall count 
for purposes of clause (a) and clause (c). 

(b) Tn case of persons appointed on tenure basis and in the 
cuse of re-employed pensioners, service rendered from the 
date of such appointment or re-employment, as the case may 
be, only will count for purposes of this rule. 

(c) This scheme does not apply to persons appointed on 
contract basis. 

Note 6. — The budget estimates of expenditure in respect 
of this scheme will be prepared by the Accounts Officers res- 
ponsible for maintenance of the accounts of the Fund having 
regard to the trend of expenditure, in the same manner us 
estimates are prepared for other retirement benefits,” 

EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 

The Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), 1962 are 
being amended retrospectively with effect from 8th January, 
1975 as the deposit-linked insurance scheme was introduced 
with effect from that date vide Ministry of Finance (Depart- 
ment of Expenditure) O.M. No. F. 9( 10)-FViB)/73 dated the 
8th January, 1975. No officer is likely to be adversely affect- 
ed by these rules being given retrospective effect from 8th 
January, 1975 

[No. I-, 13( 10)-EVi R)/76-CPFJ 
S. S. 1 MALHOTRA, Under Secy. 



3421 


^[»rrT II — 3(ii)] ■ffror w tdrst : firwr 24 , 1977/arcfTOT 2 , 1999 

iftwr-wp* mi Wrt »fw» fjnr 

f»TCTt«r, 3 3J4f, 19 7 7 

Wo qr» 29 S 9 : — frtffn jfrni fmm, 1944 % famt .7 »r snfo ijtf swr wfamf w unfit tjn; ?tot w wnutrfau 
fitTta 1-5-07 4ft Sffa^WTT rfo 2/%o^o^o/G7 (Wrft'I 'JTqTTT IJW) ft VlfiffT fttfttR 4nft $tr, ft, rr?T^5tTT ?H% *TT«T St^TH ftP^ff % 
wsrir 3 ft fftfftfte OTTW tw ^ 4 ft Ruft-srtft ijftw: tfftf ft, tnr»ft % wwr 4 ft mft UTafaftf wr 

ffaflwrftf % trtfrr T$ft 5 ^, wtftr wtpt 2 $ srwftr ffttnr % gutpefi ^ srtfhr, wmprf it irfwftf w nn>t weft w qfwwr %ptt 5 1 

wont 

** stfawfotf it wrnftrf it frffrot nfftn-'u wtr qiV^ftWTn;, fctqfftifi 

w smntrm, iT fwnfsrftrr ft wr vfk irt jf w 
wtffft + ntfr ff 


Wfft° ifjtq- W7PTT >I|S47 

famr ftsuT 


1 


z 


4 


5 


57 19 2 IfTPjn' 4JWT % wtfrww i ftflfft % qfftfttfl wit it MTtTW ffttrffw 

(srfft^wn fto 2/%o ?r«rr wi% m* tfrg* ft wft xrfsmff wft if ftftfor trffttftr % 

^o4j<./6 7*r sr^- xrtftfaw mft) rfftwt 1 

«rj wroiftit) 


[ft® l/io3o4Jo/7 7/tfto*roIV-8/2/73/3 4 2 j 
ft » pro wifT, fnrnjtrf 


CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISES 
Shillong, the 3rd June, 1977 
CENTRAL EXCISES 

S.O. 2959— In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 5 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 and in partial modi- 
fication of this Collectorate Notification No. 2/CE/67 (Central Excise) dated 1-5-67, 1 hereby empower the Central Excise Officers specified 
in column 3 of the table hereto annexed to exercise within their respective jurisdictions the power of Collector under the provisions of 
the Rules in column 2 of the said table, subject to the restriction and limitations set out in column 4 thereof. 


TABLE 


SI. No. 

Central Excise Rule No. 

Collector’s powers delegated to 
officers not below the rank of 

Restriction and limitations if 
any 

Remarks 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

• 57 

(Of the table 
annexed to 
Notification 
No. 2/CE/67) 

192 

All officers of and above the 
rank of Superintendents of 
Central Excise. 

All powers except in regard to 
fixing the cost of supervising 
operations. 



[No. l/CE/77/C.No. IV-8/2/73/342] 

80GI/77— 3 K. S, SAHA, Collector 




3422 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sfc. 3(ifo 


mix Hum i tftn t rm 

9 fa-TH 1977 


H'PFT 

VToalTo 2 9 60:--HH: %uffa ’TTTR Tft TFT fa Hfa%T ft 

tmtwr a*rr h*Mih $ fa whto srfafatrR, 1957 (1957 
to 27) £ wrffa Rift tfrfa tnr^nr fafafasc ftft TOfraTsft % hth 
hto spr fafafent sf+ifvii ift nfa, faHro HHfarfk gft 

1976-77 % ^TIA 10 W HHft ft RfftHt fftaffrH faHT TOfl 
tffa hit: SWT wfafaHH, 19S7 ( 1957 TO 27) it tTTO 

42-t jrcr snm vrfafaf to tot ?h fafftrr hr H»fa toft nfa) 

WTO rpft Hlfafaf TO tfafa TOft gTT, %Hffa TOR ft Wrft wfaw 
faffa 7 TOPLfr, 1975 % ITTT STHTO % Rift WTWTO7 HTT TOrft 
(fanfaron ft ft*nr TOromff ft nffaffan tow, 9ft, frfarrw tott 
fTOrfaw rfa hwt ifa TOtrrrowf aro EmPu aw, fftaffaw fan 
HR TOT, W fftftTW Hft 1976-77 ^ hVtW ftH TOTTO TOTT for 
HR ST'VT 1 Hft HTOfapT TOTT % 1 M 1 M ! fy frt fagT £ I 

’■i "l . WW TOjffa 6 THTT % 3 j f H: fa-Tfa 7 ji m f i . 1975 

% HIRTH tT WTJGTC HTO wfafaf TO TOTfa TOR jr, ft RR^IRT 

Ytrft whew ft 3 'trr; tormtoI * tow hwt fafafent 

HTOfftWTOTOjf I 

hth-to fwwtw 

TOTTO % ftft wfa TORTTOWf % TOW, faWTO TOf »H fwTH RH 
1976-77 % hWt io hot HHft ft trfw frorffaH Art hhthti 
(I) ftfftWW % faftft— ‘nfa (H) f(p$ wfaWTH JTOT ftfa ‘Rtf’ 
(t) Rfiwr ft fat, ( 2 ) TO fattfaw «fa ft faR, ( 3 ) tt 

Ifsr TOT faronfl (fet) ft faR, ( 4) faSTtfar TO? TOT ft faro 

(5) in to % fan, (e) faR hr to % faR ft 1 

1 . sft Tfafa yro am ftwft fann faftwr, TOrffa? (i) 

fafa’ (2) 1975-76 (3) 8 20550 Ho ( 4 ) 1028100HO 

(5) 21124 Ho ( 6 ) 21124 Ho | 

2 . fft, HJJHIHHT (l) 'Rif ( 2 ) 1975-76 

(3) 1030300 Ho ( 4 ) 1030300 Ho ( 5 ) 20395 Ho 

( 6) 20395 Ho I 

3. W15-IHII int RR wy Rt far HTHT HH ^HTff ( 1 ) 
‘RTf (2) 1967-G8 (3) 988200 Ho ( 4 ) 1234940 Ho 

( 5) 1 1 278 Ho (6) 6956 Ho | 

4 Rt fafaR TfafH Htfa HRTT, faRHT ( 1 ) *RTf ' ( 2 ) 

1970-71 (3) 1939100 Ho ( 4 ) 2139620 Ho ( 5 ) 

36189 Ho ( 6) 36189 Ho I 

5 fafaW jftifT ntft HRR, faTHT ( l) ‘RT^’ ( 2 ) 

197 1-72 ( 3 ) 2082980 Ho ( 4 ) 2362300 Ho ( 5 ) 

67 115 H o ( 6) 671 15 Ho I 

6 . fafasr Hl^H Htfa HTRT, faTHT (l) ‘Rif’ ( 3 ) 

1972-73 (3) 2190780 Ho ( 4 ) 2595670 Ho ( 5 ) 

1 1 7654 Ho (6) 1 17654 Ho I 

7- 5<W4 H^T ffaH JHTT HfanTTOT (l) 'RR' ( 2 ) 
1975-76 (3) 1071700 Ho ( 4 ) 10717O0Ho ( 5 ) 

228GB Ho ( 6 ) 22868 ho | 


b. ^toth Hfarr 5 HTT hTihmt i ( 1 ) ‘rr’ ( 2 ) 

1976-77 (3) 1 14720 Ho ( 4 ) 11223006 Ho ( 5 ) 

24852 Ho ( g) 24852 Ho I 

[Wo Ho 4 1 8 ( 5 ) / 7 7- 7 8 *pTTo] 
RH 0 RH o jfaHTRT, RHTO TTHTT 


OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF WEALTH TAX, 
HARYANA & CHANDIGARH 

Rohtak, the 9th September, 1977 

WEALTH-TAX 

S.O. 2960. — Whereas the Central Govorntnent is of the 
opinion that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest 
lo publish the names and other particulars hereinafter specified 
relating to assessces who have been assessed under the Wealth- 
tax Act, 1957 (27 of 1957) on net wealth exceeding Rs. 10 
lakhs during financial year 1976-77. 

And whereas in exercise of the powers conferred by section 
42A of the Wealth-tax Act 1957 (27 of 1957) and all other 
powers enabling them in this behalf the Central Government 
has by its order dated 7- 1-1 975, authorised all Commissioners 
of Wealth-tax to publish the names, addresses, status and 
assessment year relating to assessces within their jurisdiction 
and wealth returned by, the wealth assessed on, the wealth- 
tax payable by and the wealth-tax paid by such assessces 
during the financial year 1976-77. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred upon 
me by the Central Government by its aforesaid order dated 
7-1-1975, I hereby publish in Schedule, hereto annexed, the 
names and other particulars of the asessees aforesaid. 


INCOME-TAX DEPARTMENT 

Names of all Wealth-tax assessces assessed on net wealth 
exceeding Rs. 10 lakhs during the financial year 1976-77 (i) 
stands for status ‘H’ for H.U.F. and ‘1’ for individuals (ii) 
for assessment year (iii) for net wealth returned (iv) for net 
wealth assessed (v) for tax payable and (vi) for rax paid. 

1. Sh. Rajiv' Kumar C/o M/S Kiran Cinema, Chandigarh 
(i) T (ii) 1975-76 (iii) Rs. 8,20,550 (iv) Rs. 10,28,100 (v) 
Rs, 21124 (vi) Rs. 21124, 

2. Sh. D, D. Purl, Yamunanagar (i) I (ii) 1975-76 
(iii) Rs, 10,30,300 (iv) Rs. 10,30,300 (v) Rs. 20,395 (vi) 
Rs. 20395. 

3. Shakuntla Devi Jain I./W of Sh. Nem Sugar Jain. 
Rewari (i) T (ii) 1967-68 (iii) Rs. 9,88,200 (iv) Rs, 12,34,940 

(v) Rs. 11278 (vi) Rs. 6956. 

4. Sh, Girish Mohan Ganeriwala, Sirsa (i) T (ii) 1970-71 

(iii) Rs. 19,39,100 (iv) Rs. 21,39,620 (v) Rs. 36,189 (vi) 

Rs. 36,189. 

5. Sh. Girish Mohan Ganeriwala, Sirsa (i) T (ii) 1971-72 

(iii) Rs, 20,82,980 (iv) Rs. 23,62.300 (v) Rs. 67,115 

(vi) Rs. 67115. 

6. Sh. Girish Mohan Ganeriwala, Sirsa (i) T (ii) 1972-73 

(iii) Rs, 21,90,780 (iv) Rs. 25,95,670 (v) Rs. 117654 (vi) 

Rs. 117654. 

7. Ktilrai Bahadur Ramesh Kumar, Manimajra (i) ‘H’ (ii) 
1976-77 (iii) Rs. 10,71,700 (iv) Rs, 10,71,700 (v) Rs. 22,868 
(vi) Rs, 22,868. 

8. Kulraj Bahadur Romesh Kumar, Manimajra (i) 'H’ (ii) 
1976-77 (iii) Rs, 11,47,206 (iv) Rs. 11.22,300 (v) Rs. 24,852 
(vi) Rs, 24,852. 

[F. No, 418(5)/77-78/HQ] 
M. S. UNN1NAYAR, Commissioner of Wealth Tax. 



[VTPT II — 3(H)] 


■mm tt tpiw : toman: 24 , x 977/arrft^^ 2 , 1399 


WPPT 

T^faKt, 24 tomwr, 197 7 

vfo an 0 2 9 6 1 : — ttttt Tmp nfr rm (t ft? mm if KK 
KITOT % KFTT % Kit KK ( M l toJ l tlW Kt Kto* ) 
Hfatom, 1903 ( 1903 TT 22 ) K HPT 0 5PT mPT Itfamt 

tt spftJT tKt jtt mKf tt, KtK h mrtotr KKi K* 

KKpr % HlflT TTTT WTTmT WT mKto £, 

K T Kit* TTTTT T to* KtKt #TW m=fTT 7 * mPR 
ft far fait Kit % mn Kt, KTFT (TTlfato filWI Kt toftW*) 
Km, 1 9t>4 % Km 11 t mr-Km ( 2 ) tt sKn-jitn: Krfa 
Ktow»r tftmr tt Kt Ktt t , 

W*. mr, TTK TT-fm T TTfPPm if TK* PW 3 W ilHW 
Tf m mto Ktrff to 1 mwrto iff Pm unto* tptT k Ktt 
mto srmtor ?fto Tt ir*rmr 1 

2 *pmT to *rto i ft: 4fT frit mKr sna m-nto iff *rKr 
it tt£ nmtT m jjm* Kn mj to m ms, m *K?r % Trrm 
if Hf. l U I H Tl TP'K it Kttoto Kt % toTT-Ktf'T KtosPT 
tomr, ‘mi jr tort’, 1 4/ t-to. <mrr tfto, (wreto totor) 
«PWrr-70ooii 1 tT Kr to fc 1 

mm* 

( 1 ) mt ^fa^to* tptt fa mw Ktto h ■J't wW 

KKr to* Ktowr $ *toto jto 1 

(2) TH KfW «tf TTPfH-l it Kt TFT, TtK % Ktfa 
(fatWp) Km, 1977 % HTTT % mTHTT Kfapt T HTTP Tt 

Tmtoff KKr top toffwn 5 fr Kt htp % mr if frWK 

tptt iff fa KtK it Kr mwf to hpj 5K; 

(3) Ktotofar to mm*T mr; — 

(t) mpto* kt Tit m^K ur ttrt; 

(ht) HfTrrmixt %nr % ittmm tt j h mn <r Kirmt 

thKt »t?«mff jpt mriftKT w K Kt *rmr iff 
K^ TKmT-Tf Kfur tf TCTf if fKrtfr *fK 3 Pt 
KKt Kt JTtr 5f; 

(t) KK ^ spt Tffarmm PrKWr iff Tm it KKr 
KKfur, Tr ijr , (t) 'ptt (ij) ^f mrKr mr, 
K5 nmvt TttwT ftHT HTTrtm ^ imPm ^ 
Ktt KtK KEtww iKpriPT Kt^; Kimr % 
Kt jm w^rftKr K tit if; 

nit ’TrK % Kt «rnmf fKKtt if; 

( 4 ) nK^k mi'ii 1 '; * Tkm Kt iff KK tfr 

HT TTi mRiRi 4 TPTTT ITT ni, K TTTT’ *trn fT'lfT 

KKt wVt Krt!PT) Km, 1963 ( 19 6 3 m 22) tK HPT 
7 K K)t «ttKt wKipoff if if Kfr t stp titK Kit tutt 
^tt Tn»m tt smwm fr jfr K mmf cr Km fKirK Kthp 
sffr Kfrtpr ir TfKK mf! rir yp rnTp it hht KtK ffmt |, 

H^mT TTH TT HT TfrK TtpHT' ' ,J l TfT HTP 9 ^f HmKt KtKt 
H'TiI *, ?TP J n- T fKn TTT ifl’l spft K I 


3423 


(2) w tiki TfftTfftHtvmTPT, emjnqmKr spt 
nKf ^tnitf rt ftijTn % KtK ppj; Hjff 5 K, 

Km ijm 500 n<> it Ttfirtf ft ^1 

3. w tttKt if ‘ttK’ ft imt, Ktt m Tim <(f imni tt 
KtK r it Kt tttt rhK if itfHf Tfir Ttfwr k K»j 
K hKj ^ftrrK % h ' [ imttf KhKK tiit tip imt mm 
KKt: mm HfmKr mtr wfff 1 

Turn — I 

(Krtr MirMtfl ftwi mr Kfrerr) HfErKm, 1903(1903 "pt 
22 ) iff hpt 1 7 % i?Kt sttut itK % Kt smr rf m 
Kmf ffrirmH ) 

1 TtKm Tm.^mH fftititf ttftmr ftm mptf % IKrtr 
(fKrsm) fmm, 1077 f, \ 

2. TKmrnf — 1 rr fHTHt if, m w It ht'O it 

rntf^m t sr 1 

(t) HfHKm’ it KKt (wThfr KKr mr Krf«pr) 
HfnKm, i 9 o:i wfyKr if; 

(g) KPornTT’ H «tfHKm »ff hpt 7 % wtfK HWnt, 
Tf'iT.ni, TfTTfT, KK tmt mnn if wtKr wfHTmff 
if if ffrf hKKt if ; 

( h ) 'tim H jKt, Kff tt mm % urn? vt Ktftm tph 
% Kt wr-TTTftf if imrs Km *rKKr if; ftf ; ^ 
Kr h'k mKff % Kt Kc-Ttrf oh mr V 
ftto sim HfmKr oifi plot i 

3. KtTspt *pij Ttrarr:— — KtK % Kt mKr m KclWP 

WT ^f Krt it Ktt Ttinirr K mm pfeKm iff httt 6 

* wrffH %'Tftir tor iPT mm IKfKafwrf T w |, mi 
KK hKt it MT »ft ft-Klw wKtft % mm* it, t\ Kntf 
it *mrj mmgmt if *Kr mjm Kp KfKr >Kr K rnKf 

^f ^f KKt tt 1 i t t Km tthttit i 

i. Kftsm urt srKrr. — (1) (m) m?*f m KtK 9 ^* 
tt m®9f Krf* tK pqm f(m ftK irr wq* trnm tff gmtr 
KKt *p if Ktt ?rm Kfr ^mtr ip m<r, Krfr ttKit if Kt 
mr KfrJiff iff Kit, m4t mpfr^Tt fmfmrnff tt Kttt Kt 
jit, nq; wKmur tt ifm fmrit K tj Km 3 % ttttptt * 
Kfrem tt h%, *m mt Kt *rmr KtfspT % Kt mrf m 
*fmr K k sKKfr *rfwfi tt*Kt if fTTiio qfmr ttoKt 
ttw 1 

K) tfm^ t m m sw ^ — 

ffw tthKh ^)t 1 o it 0 In 0 

KKt Kt»rw ifrn ( 1 ) Ktfa Kfrspr tfw, 

K itmT 1 , w "KK ('tK'ff 4 Kt), 

1 i/imt, TTPTpfte (mKt 113, Titf* tt Kt, 

jfKr) ’mTm -700001 Tmi-4 

( 2 ) KtK Kfr^m Ktht, 

mtK KKr. mtii’m mK trr, 
mt^m, titKoo 2 oi 1 

(3) KiK Kcfwp KKr, 

^KtKm http fwfm (' KmffitKr), 
TPmft mit, tKt <m, K 4 t- 


1 1 u u 0 5 



3424 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASV1NA 2, 1899 


( 2 ) ( l) ^ wrfta ^rt tot «#tot qmeiH 

q# nrftv # qnt # q^ tot fro q?# TTfroro tot 

qfros fr qrofcro q^ar to# i 

(s) sq-fwT ( 2 ) # TO*ta tot viqiii tow ?t# 
to, wf*mror Ttitr- 3 tot rq #4u *r qfro^ tttt to# fro* 
w *rj#qff fc, qfe qftf iff, tojtot to#) qrr Tr€t«rir q#TO 1 

(4) (t) fafttspir ?r to# * qtron $tto «l«mwr 

q#roT % 4#af Ft w <w t ##t tfa q#TO fqt tot ^faftror 
iff fro 41 <i to 14^ ' ' qiT # tor q?f q# to 

tiqi41 1 

(w) srrtfTFf# q# tout it, «rf# frofa qtwf fit cfr qTror 
q# mrn qrmr jnr t#w to# f#ro totott f#ro; ## toto# Sr frofa- 
qir# xtM#f f# # ft^ xtqlq qufi to totopc to# toto i 

( 5) tot wfaqrow to w? mhihh rfr toto ^ ft? to?#) to 

q J #r>r fwr 3 q# xr#STPtrf q# qr#rr ft to tot fro#*™ 

?t to# # 3 fro * s#wr, frorfw # wtroro fR# jjq, 

M*r r uma to# qr#TT fro 'rtror fSnrfw 4 W ft 1 

qTO$ TO# wfwfq TO TOT TO TO TOrttH TO# KtTO TO# 

at? tot; efTr far q# TOf# # *#to: ^tt totw ## # j^r. 

TT ^TT TOT TOT TOTT ^fTT fTO( TO# q# 1JTOTT Tmf 

Hf^u fiofn *f>nl q# 49i | 

(a) 4r Br rT«r aro aw v# w#«rr q# to^, frorfrorof ftrcfa 
ftrrr to# to# q#ror # % tof# * toj# f#:qjw #ro; frog toj# 

f##ww tjr# qtr«TiT ip?:^ \, qTsrrq; wfSmqr tm qrftq qrr ftrr 
Tl i[S| i 

s. fr^lwr qq Prnff ^ qqtro ^ fSrrr «n^ qq 

Prfrqrq — 

(q;) W^iFtt % qfrin: Sr, fw to^it, ^t 

(w) qfwn t, hkt (qqlqq’il ircr tot q^r fVqr 

'3im"i fVi’qY Jim*TT, 

q\f^ rf4t ' 3 R I fr qsi tft q^rnR % I'l 1 ,* fqiHTR 

ifr ' 

e. ft-ftwir q^: — qpr qTq Pt:4TW ijrt o . s sfitm 
qr ^ '^Pt f T i’’i ri qq^T jttt ^ 14 qi ^ y i qrt fqq41 % ^rtlrq 

frSfarr q5N- ^ isq Sr 41 TOnft q?^ q^rqr ^ fSrrr ^ 
<frq qR Sr qR qqr afl tot wtift i 

7 - ‘qrfw’: — ( i) f 4 qq 4 >R ^q-Pr<rq (5) % wiftq smpr- 
q?r Sr qrfvTi<.' , i ipt ^qrrt ftiq 4 ®q(»R qfrt ®rfqq 
q»r qqqr ?qqr fw mq qfr ^ Sr 10 

v vftfTT, ®jfq?WT % fqqm qft t?<f^r qrr: q^rr fnqSr q*r qqrqq 
i ffi^ if((if ffm Pf Ir qq 3 mr wftrqr Sr pftjqr 

qm sqfq?r fSrqqrr fqqr ^tthI i 

(' 2 ) W™) 1 «p qft 5W mhwmi 1 % qf-ftnnf ww 

Arjqrqqfr fft 1 

(3) ^ qft wjftr afrq qPr ?Wr 1 

( 4 ) stfw ?rSr ^ is frff ^ <ftnr: *pftar Ptot <ft 1 


[Part II— Sec. 


SPJ^fr 
(Pm 3 ^Prr) 
qaj^TT RTCoft 


Wfe VI4K 

frftw tot qffsriT 4 Wf q# 

# f#tT, flqTT qrr TO TO #WIT 

'T'f'fl q# Tfso'l 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

1 5 TO 

2 

0 

16# 25 

J 

0 

26 # 100 

5 

0 

101 # 150 

8 

0 

1 T 1 # 300 

1 3 

o 

30 1# 500 

2 0 

l 

501# 10000 

32 

') 

iooo tot wfaqr 

50 

3 


-jqTqu — 2 

PtrPt (qqilWfV PiMta«i xftx Prfrem) qf^ rnqH , 1 9 g 3 
( 1963 qq 22 ) qfr ETTTT S IRT TOT JrfSpnff qq TOH qr!^ 
51 T, MTq qqro: qs ^qt?R qnST % qqnrq qr f%r % 

Rqtr Sr TrrofPr rtto rptr qinuftqrTur fsr^ qfr anron 
^ qq totr q^tfr | fq; gnrt qiwf qr ^ 

q^r ^ «rfijPm qft tnrr e ^ qjq (q) % in^q ot qr 
toj fft' qT% 'HT'*T4> fqPrJqr % mwq to# TOfir 1 

qfOTWT:- - to «rftr^TOT sr 'anro’ # rr*cff, ihff ht «rm ^ 

tot? q?r Pmftrrr qrrSr % farr qrro smpft *r tow ijfcr (rfSr^rr 

PF5 TO*r qqtrof % for TOW TOT TO TOT 

44 T<f PrSf^qr qrro arfSarfro qjfr fq^ ^3174 | 

[TO 6( 10)/7S-ProPro tot Pro TO] 
%° #0 JTi'iT’jqsi fuiqn, ^ Prtsrqr 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th September. 1977 

S.O. 2961. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion 
that it is necessary and expedient so to do for the develop- 
ment of the Export Trade of India that in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 6 of the Export (Quality Control 
and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), valves should be 
subject to inspection prior 1 o export ; 

And whereas the Central Government has formulated cer- 
tain proposals specified below for the said purpose and has 
forwarded the same to the Export Inspection Council, as 
required by sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality 
Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964 ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the said sub-rule the Cen- 
tral Government hereby publishes the said proposals for in- 
formation of the public likely to be affected thereby. 

2. Notice is hereby Riven that any person desiring to for- 
ward any objections or suggestions with respect to the said 
proposals may forward the same within forty-five days from 
the date of publication of tbls Order in the Official Gazette 
to the Export Inspection Council, ‘World Trade Centre* (7th 
Floor), 14/IB, Ezra Street, Calcutta-700001. 






(1) To notify that valves shall be subject to quality control 
and inspection prior to export ; 

(2) To specify the type of inspection in accordance with 
the draft Export of Valves (Inspection) Rules, 1977 set out 
in Annexure 1 to this Order as the type of quality control 
and Inspection which shall be applied to such valves prior 
to export ; 

(3) To recognise — 

(a) the Indian or any other national or international 
standards ; 

(b) standards approved by a Ministry or Government 

Department or Public Utility Board of the importing 
country declared by the exporter as the contractual 
specification for such valves and ; 

(c) the specifications declared by the exporter as the 
contractual specifications which do not fall under 
clauses (a) and (b) but approved by a Panel of 
Experts appointed by the Export Inspection Council 
for the purpose of examining and approving such 
standards ; 

as the standard specifications for such valves ; 

(4) To prohibit the export in the course of international 
trade of such valves unless the same arc accompanied by a 
certjficate issued by any of the Agencies established under 
section 7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963) to the effect that ihe consignment of valves 
satisfy the condition relating to quality control and inspection 
and is exportworthy; or affixed with a seal or mark recognised 
by the Central Government under section 8 of the said Act. 

2, Nothing in this order shall apply to the export by land, 
sea or air samples of valves to prospective buyers, the value 
of which does not exceed Rs. 500. 

3. In this order “valves" shall mean a device used in pipe 
lines for regulating the flow of liquids, gases or steam but 
shall not include bib-cocks and taps used for domestic pur- 
poses and pressure regulating valves. 

ANNEXURE 1 

Draft rules proposed to be made under section 17 of the 

Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 
1963) 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Export of 
Valves (Inspection) Rules, 1977. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context other- 
wise requires : — 

(a) ‘Act’ means the Export (Quality Control and Inspec- 
tion) Act, 1963; 

(b) ‘Agency’ means any of the Agencies established at 
Bombay. Calcutta, Cochin, Delhi and Madras under 
section 7 of the Act ; 

(c) ‘Valves’ shall mean a device used in pipe lines for 

regulating the flow of liquids, gases or steam ; but 
shall not include bib-cocks and taps used for domes- 
tic purposes and pressure regulating valves. 

3. Basis of Inspection. — Inspection of valves for export shall 
be carried out with a view to seeing that the valves confoim 
to the standard specifications recognized by the Ccnbal Gov- 
ernment under section 6 of the Act and in the absence of any 
specific stipulation in the export contract, the sampling and 
criteria of conformity mentioned in the Schedule annexed to 
these rules shall be followed. 

4. Procedure of Inspection.- — (l)(a) Any exporter intending 
to export valves shall give intimation in writing of his inten- 
tion so to do and submit along with such intimation a decla- 
ration of the specifications stipulated in the export contract 
giving details of all the technical characteristics to arty agency 
to enable it to carry out inspection in accordance with rule 
3 and he shall at the same time endorse a copy of such inti- 
mation for inspection to the office of Council nearest to the 
office of the Agency. 


Head Office Regional Offico 


Export Inspection Council, (1) Export Inspection Council 
‘•World Trade Centre” Aman Chambers (4th Floor) 

14/IB Ezra Street (7th Floor) 113, M. Karve Road, 
Calcutta-700001. Bombay- 4 . 

(2) Export Inspection Council,* 

Manohar Buildings 

Mahatma Gandhi Road, 
Ernakulam, 

Cochin-682011 , 

(3) Export Inspection Council, 
Municipal Market Building 
(4th Floor) 

Saraswati Marg, Karol 
Bagh. New Delhi-110005 

(2) Every intimation and declaration under sub-rule (1) 
shall reach the office of the Agency and the Council not 
less than seven days before the scheduled date of shipment. 

(3) On receipt of the intimation and declaration under sub- 
rule (2) the Agency shall carry out the inspection of valves 
in accordance with rule 3 and the instructions, if any, issued 
by the Council in this regard. 

(4) (a) After completion of inspection Agency shall imme- 
diately seal the packages in the consignment in a manner so 
as to ensure that the sealed goods cannot be tampered with, 

(b) In case of rejection, if the exporter so desires, the con- 
signment may not be scaled by the Agency; so however in 
such cases, the exporter shall not be entitled to prefer any 
appeal against the rejection. 

(5) When the Agency is satisfied that the consignment of 
valves complies with the requirement of rule 3, it shall within 
three days of completion of inspection, issue a certificate to 
the exporter declaring that the consignment is exportworthy: 

Provided that where the Agency is not so satisfied it shall 
within the said period of three days refuse to issue such certi- 
ficate and communicate such refusal to the exporter along- 
with the reasons therefor. 

(6) As and when required by the Agency, the exporter shall 
supply free of charge samples of valves from the export con- 
signment, the samples shall, however, be returned by the 
Agency after necessary inspection and testing. 

5. Place of inspection. — Inspection of valves for the purpose 
of these rules shall be carried out : — 

(a) at the premises of the manufacturer, 

or 

(b) at the premises at which the valves are offered by the 
exporter provided adequate facilities for the purpose 
exist therein, 

6 . Inspection Fee, — Subject to a minimum of rupees one 
hundred for each consignment, a fee at the rate of 0,5 per 
cent of f.o.b. value, shall be paid by the exporter to the 
Agency as inspection fee under these rules. 

7. “Appeal”. — (1) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of 
the Agency to issue a certificate under sub-rule (5) of rule 4. 
may, within ten days of the receipt of the communication of 
such refusal by him prefer an appeal to a Panel of Experts 
consisting of not less than three but not more than seven 
persons, appointed for the purpose by the Central Government. 

(2) At least two third of the totnl_ membership of the Panel 
of Experts shall consist of non-officials. 

(3) The quorum for tile Panel shall be three. 

(4) The nppeal shall be disposed of within 15 days of its 
receipt. 



3426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, I977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


THE SCHEDULE 

(SEE RULE 3) 

SAMPLING TABLE 

LOT SIZE NUMBER OF SAMPLES TO BE PERMISSIBLE 


^Afar. aaaaaa at AAravfrftR ataya (farfavr) xrfam i y 55 
far art 9 far at art (r) jrrra Afasni wn aar w. aht- 

SRrwfT I!# fa TO A Alfa far JR yrfai RAffaA faf AR(3T7T 

"'T ti #r Tl ^ I 


DRAWN FOR INSPECTION NUMBER OF 

AND TESTING DEFECTIVES 


[wi #rtft/s i/i’ftvjn] 


Upto 15 
16 to 25 
26 to 100 
101 to 150 
151 to 300 
301 to 500 
501 to 1000 
1001 and above 


3 

5 

8 

13 

20 

32 

50 

ANNF.XURE II 


0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2 
3 


(Office of the Jt, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 
ORDER 

Madras, the 30th March, 1977 

S.O. 2962. — M/s. Suresh Kumar S., 1 /204, Govindappa 

Naicken St., Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E/0264203 
dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000 for import of Dry Fruits for 
the period AM 77. 

Tt has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 


Whereas the Central Government in exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 8 of the Export (Quality Control and 
Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 1963), proposes to recognise the 
Indian Standards Institution Certification Mark with respect 
to valves for the purpose of denoting that where valves arc 
affixed with such mark they shall be deemed to he in confor- 
mity with the standard specification applicable (hereto under 
clause (c) of section 6 of the said Act ; 

Definition.— In this Notification “Valves’' shall mean a 
device used in pipe lines for regulating (he flow of liquid, 
cases or steam but shall not include bibcocks and taps used 
for domestic purposes and pressure regulating valves. 

INo. 6(10)/75-El&HP] 
K. V. BAI.ASUBRAMANIAM, Dy. Director 


(eftyw f«wtrt*r, wrawBrafir *r qrrafsra) 

*m, aowri, i 977 


Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955 as amended from time lo tjme, was issued to M/s. 
Suresh Kumar, S., asking them to show cause within a speci- 
fied time as to why the said licence should not be cancelled 
for the reasons mentioned above. An opportunity for per- 
sonal hearing was also fiivcn to represent their case. In reply 
to the show cause notice, though they have sent a letter dated 
24-3-1977 through their Advocate staling that the licence 
has been issued correctly ns per Public Notice, but in their 
subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had appreciated the 
show cause notice and that they did not press for the resto- 
ration of the licence in question or a personal hearing and that 
they did not wish to embarass the Government. 

Having regard to what has been slated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 
him under Sub-Clause (a) of the clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955, as amended from time to time, hereby 
cancel (he licence mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 


WTo 2962. — 4 #’41 fAR riJTo 1 / 2 04 Affa^RT 

trw sffa, air 1 4fa srfcr-ars# 1977 qfa srafa fa far 
2 , 00,000 A’R aw 4fa aa ttiar 4 , * a 51 far si 1 fa a 

awr'fto/fo /0204203 farfa 15-3-77 ana faai aat tt 1 

aji fair aat # fa i#fai ateaa Afa ^ Afat ar fair 

AAT ft I 

lafao;, aaa-aaa tt qsmfa'tftpT rrw (ffafaPA) vrr, 
1955 fat ART 9 (a) fa WlflA mp unm AATTTT ^TIT AWT 
3tft/5 5/f*ffa/7 7 faWF 18-3-77 A#’#! A^T $AR 4ft ATT 
ja Arrft <fat A#t At fa fAf4R AAA % AtAT 4TRA AAR 
fa ATR ATfa(A 3tT r tFh Pi A 40 '.'4 4?) Wtt A T/ ifzfj Affr W 

fart ar i wtA aiaA A far Afftfaw 4Rft #> far RfftTAA 

JpT W r fat fa AT AAT At I 4TRAT AATOt Atfa'I % TATA A 
A«tfa RAH# AAA A*Pfa fa AT«TA A faATT 2 1-3-77 4?! AT TA 
Alt Afjjfa faAT ft" fa Ai?AA Afarfap 'll % A<JHR ifa 
TTTt faAT AAT AT, T 7 '^ RAfa TTA 29-3-7 7 fa AA A Afaft 
qTTTTT 4ATAT ATfaA fit *fafaR faAT aVt RAftft A At RAT ATTAA 
4A Alfat 4Rft #1 fAA AT A 5 AlWR ^447# fa faa HTTT fat r 
fa JR=SR TT ATOR ART A AT ARA A I 

A#fAT ATRlAl A TT A; A AAT AAT ft AT EAR A RATA ?/ r , 
AAtTRATSTTT fa A 4TA A ft fa Affi A fa A A AT Rft T 7 faqi 

TTAT ATfaA AT START JR fa -jprtTTAT W faAT ART ATfaA I 


[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 

afar 

fTTo WTe 2 96 3. — A#'#f ATA 31 , ATfa^r-AT A1A41A 

AITA 1 4TT AfiAAT# 1 977 qi) AAfa #1 far 2,00,000 
SR »£AT % TTA 4A ATATA flfa % fan; APTAA ASAl Tt/t/ 
0 2 H 120 5 f#Afa 15-3-7 7 TATA faAT AAT AT I 

ATT falT AAT # fa yffal AfaAA ^ TTfr faAT 

AAT ft I 

TAfatf, AAA AAA AT AATAAlftR ATATA (faAAA) ARA, 
19 55 4?) ART 9 (a) fa A>f)A 1(41 ATRA AATAT ^AAI A AAT 
falf)/ 5 5/fafTA/ 7 7 faqfa 18-3-77 A# At t BA ’A! A° A A far Ag 
yah |tT Afat fa! Afa) A# fa fafaR AAA fa faTAT 41 RAT TAR 
fa AAT AfaAA A3 T sfe^ifaA 4TRA" fat AA^ fa 4At A^t 4R 
faAT AR I RA’ RTA ARA fa fair Affa#AA AR.fa fa fatf SAfA.AA- 
rAAT# 4IT A AAT fat faAT AAT AT I ATTA AATAt ATfaA fa 5RTA fa 
swfa A^tfa AAA afafar fa ATATA fa faAfa 24-3-77 fal aq; Rg 
ATT WA |A Ig-SIT ^ fa ',;?AA AT#AfAAl ^AAT fa AAAR R41 
ART faAT AAT AT 4TAJ AAfa ATA 29-3-7 7 fa A A fa A^TA 4>RA 
AARTT ATfaA #T RTAIR faAT tffa ARIA A AT AAT AT o.A A fal 
AifAA A1 7 A fa faR AT A ^T --AFRAA AAACt fa fan; As^fT a'Ta # 
ARTR far AfafR ARAT A^l A I 



TT-m u — w 3 ( ii ) ] 


htct tot ttott : faqwn: 24, if m/qrfaqq 2 , is 9 9 


3427 


’jftttro ftqrqrro ft TO 50 v^r Trqr | TOr otto jt qrft 5 ft, 
ttjTOotwTO qq 7 pt ft m^rr ?, fa ot toitTOt TO to TOTfaqi 
qrror 'snferi qr wqr mr ft purt tot faqT tot qrfifa 
TTfarf, qqqqqq TF qqrqqTSq WTqFT ( f^TOfWwr ) WfaTO 1955 

TO tjp;r 9 TO mr vnxT (T) im qqq TOutoft tot sum tot 
wftrjjOTisTTO Tift TO sw ft tiTO fa ft qu qrrftq »pt rrn^g'i'^r 
^ toto t £ i 

[5W ftfti / 5 a/tf TOff / 7 7] 

ORDER 

S.O. 2963.— Mi/s. Poolchand A. Jain, 31, Govindappa 
Naicken St., Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P /E/0264205 
dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2 lakh for Import of Dry Fruits 
for the period AM 1977. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955 as amended from lime to time, was issued to M/s. 
Poolchand A. Jain, asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be 
cancelled for the reason mentioned above. An opportunity 
for personal hearing was also given to represent their case. 
In reply to show cause notice, though they have sent a letter 
dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate stating that the licence 
has been issued correctly as per Public Notice but in their 
subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had appreciated the 
show cause notice and that they did not press for the restora- 
tion of the licence in question or a personal hearing and that 
they did not wish to embrass the Government, 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 
him under Sub-Clause (a) of the Clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955, as amended from time to time, hereby 
cancel the licence mentioned above, issued in favour of the 
firm. 

[File No. JC/55 /ECA/77) 

TOTo 3TT° 2 904: — qTOft, iff Tq-rotT TO v 4 TWI HlgTH 
mtm t TO qftT-qrft 1977 TO qqftr % fam; 2 , 00,000 titt 
* j*q % tot witt toTO % f<ro wftq tot 4 )^/ 102042 1 1 , 
15 - 3-77 3 TFT faqT WT TOT | 

qq ft«r iwc t, fa iTOn trrrftq tjto ft ttTO to^ faqr 
qqrfc 1 

qqfftu, mrqqqq tot qqr ftTOfar wnrm (fqftqTO) wtw 
1 955 «TTT 9 (ft) % TOffT faqfa 18 - 3-77 TO) qftft) TTOTOT 
ipa TO rffi tofto sotTO fttfaq q? ysft ttTO fam ugi qr fa 
ft fqfaur mnr ^ ftfat tottto qqrft fur 30 ; 'rrqftq toto ■dfwtfiflu 
tottw TO toto ft <ftf q tot faqr ip-tr 1 otj jpnth % 
fair srfaftqq TOTft % fftft "qfwrr tjqqrf nr wqqr iff faqr mn 
qr 1 tot; 9 m ft w) tt faqfa 20-3-77 if q$ tout % fa qfaift 
qrqqq rnfa ?) TOr faqr qr ftfa ^ fa 4 . 4,77 ^ sqfoqq 
qqqrf qr fair ^qffatr ftd ir Tifa) qfa q^r | mrh 

mrifar to farofa % faq fifaim faqT qr 1 

ijhim qTtqpq qr f® <051 qqT $ 13 % sqm h twtr 5^ 
wro % fi ' 5^ | fa Ttn ?rTT§q fd tt qmfeqT 
qrmr qrfap qr qiqqr wr r d qqqpfr wm faqr irmr qrffeir 1 


sqfair tnrq-frqq to qqr tfitftfaq wTqpT (fadaq) qfaq, 1955 
qd umr 9 qd Tinm (p) ?ft qqq srfamd to qqdq qq 
Ftn/rmwifr tot to qrrf) fap qq ifafio wrrqq qd p^qjiyr 
vrqmTjf 1 

[fa fro dqqr / 5 5 / 7 7] 

ORDER 

S.O. 2964.— M/s. Sri lagatamba Company, 4, Thabu 
Naicken St., Madras-1 were issued a licence No. P/E/ 
0264211 dated 15-3-1977 for Ks. 2,00,000 for import of Dry 
FruiLs for the period AM 1977, 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice dated 18-3-1977 under 
Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended 
from time to time, was issued to M/s. Sri Japatamba Co., 
asking them to show cause within a specified time as to why 
the said licence should not be cancelled for the reason men- 
tioned above. An opportunity for personnel hearing was 
also given to represent their case. But the firm have stated 
in their letter dated 26-3*1977 that they have already handed 
over the licence and that they do not wish to avail personal 
hearing on 4-4-1977 and had requested for finalisation of their 
application. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding para- 
graphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question 
should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. Therefore, 
the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in him under 
Sub-Clause (a) of Clause 9 of fhe Imports (Control) Order. 
1955 as amended from time to time hereby cancel the licence 
mentioned above issued in favour of the above firm, 

[File No. JC/55 /ECA/77] 

TOoMTo 2905.--mfa.ft qWTpsr qq qaf) , 10 qrpfr fajt fafa 
qsw-l TO uifa-qiH 197 7 qf) wqfir fan 2 , 00,000 qqtr 
^ ^ tot to qrqrcr qrfa %fair iqnnfa' m*qnft/#/02642 i 2, 
fan i n 15-3-77 TOUT faqT qqT qr I 

q^ far TOT ^ fa sfafqq '-Iitnu TOT ^ rrfar qiq farr qqT 
fr I 

vi fa '4, mrq-mrq to qqfavftfmT qrqrq (fadflui) qfaiir 

1935 qft tr Ml 9 ( TT ) ^ UN 1 7 faqfa 18-3-77 Tl mf’-ff f 1 4 
qqqrff, i o totO *itz, qum- i qfr uqr qrr?3q qqnfr qtfj-q 
qq juft faqr qqr qT fa % faffaq qqq vfr i > qnTOf 

qqpt fa tto mrefar 3 tto Tffarfarr totoi ft! qsrg ^ ifaf 

q qrr faqi q tu i s-ijf 3qi« qTq'i 4r farr ^ fair 

*qfarqq qqqrS to qqro qf faqr qqT qT i tott; qfa q qq^- 

TO fan i'q. 26-3-77 if TO I fa TOtmT ff pfa 

faqr to ufa qf fa 4-4-77 to sqfampr ^qqfa %fau mrfTTOr 
ffa ft snuil ffa q^ff ^ qfa Tqjfft qqft qrifaq TO TO fa qdl ft 
% faif faqqq faqr to i 

'fafad 'fanTN! ft TO 5® TT^r qqr ^ 0ft sqFT ft T>jft JIT 
qftftfaTr^TO rq tit ft q-5 6 ^ ^ fa tot Ttrftq TO qrri fimr 
TOql TOfau TO WTO TOT ft WmTO TOT faqT TOFTT TOfau | 

TOrfaft qqq-qqq tx qroftTOfaq TOqpr (faftmq) wfaw, 
less TO sfm 9 TO TO-srrrr ( cr ) qqrr qfWrrf tot qftfa 
TOT TOSttfTTWTO TOft TO TOpft fau qn 'jqfaq TOTOftft TO H2T^JTTT 
TOOT £ I 


[fafOT ftOT TOf)/ 5 5'faffrr/ 7 7 ] 



33428 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


ORDER 

S.O. 2965. — M)/s. Pukhraj Chamaji, 10, Kasi Chetty St. 
Madras-1, were issued a licence No, P/0264212 dated 
15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000 for import of Dry Fruits for the 
period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice dated 18-3-1977 under 
Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended 
from time to time, was issued to M /s, Pukhraj Chamnaji, ask- 
ing them to show cause within a specified time as to why the 
said licence should not be cancelled for th^ reason mentioned 
above. An opportunity for personal hearing was also given 
to represent their case. But the firm have stated in their 
letter dated 26-3-1977 that they have already handed over 
the licence and that they do not wish to avail .personal hear- 
ing on 4-4-1977 and had requested for finalisation of their 
application. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested 
in him under Sub-Clause (a) of Clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955 as amended from time to time, hereby 
cancel the licence mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 

nfaw 

JlTomto 2906 — Tfafff, ft’JIff far %?«, irfaf ffgf rurm 1 

iff triter-hnf, 1977 iff mrfa % faff 2,00,000 niff jjpt 
jjitf irr error irrff % faff tmpfor ffwn ’fr/i/ 0204213, 

ftdfa 15 - 3-77 sror faTO WT TO I 

far *1*1 ran $ far faffar hh#*t ijfa if <*faf m Pro ran $ 1 

faifaff, ror-ror 9 T TOnwffrrd uror (fftfaptr) miir, 

1 955 ^1 tun 9 (ff) fatfa 1 8-3-77 iff ffanf 

ff«* ifa iff ffir irar miff! ffffetr tot orrff faro mn to 
fa ff ffffasr w it tffaT vrar TOEff fa did smro sir 
dfaifad tiK g i iff ^ irt -r m fort inff i 
unfa it faff ufaffror mff % far TOfaro ifrrof <ro tout 
fft fan ran <trr 1 Tn$ Tiff ff miff id Rwfa 20-3-77 ff tot 
$ fa dfffrff ttwf ffVr fan nr irtt tut ft 

4*4-77 iff TOfam g/niff % faff dMffafl jfff ff ddiff $fa 
^ijt | t/lr dfffrff wf rohpr id iff farroff ff faff fffffror 
fam to 1 

s n ffrroTT if lift ^51 991 ^ dif kqr-r ff mff jff 
stwfanlsi/1 Id nn ff fffa- ^ fa vjsn dfafa iff in fan 
dim TOfjff «rr xrtto ito ff mrrofft m fan ron ufar 1 

wfaff dror-nror m tpqj ffifffffd wror (farm) mid 
1955 iff urn 9 fff drum (ff ) rrrr spur dfffmtf m mrffT m 
W^ln«uw(y llff iff dKf faff Iff ^iTiti mirld iff Un^ai rl 
1 

[fftrfftrrr iIwt 7 hfr /5 5 /fhh (/7 7 ] 
ORDER 

S.O. 2966.— M/s. Renuka & Co,. 10, Kasi Chetty S., 
Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E/0264213 dated 
15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000 for import of Dry Fruits for the 
period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 


[Part II— Sec. 3 (n)$ 


Therefore, a show cause notice dated 18-3-1977 under Clause 
9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, as amended from 
time to time, was issued to M/s. Renuka & Co., asking them 
to show cause within a specified time as to why the said 
licence should not be cancelled for the reason mentioned above. 
An opportunity for personal hearing was also given to re- 
present their case. But the firm have stated in their letter 
dated 26-3-1977 that they have already handed over the 
licence and that they do not wish to avail personal hearing 
on 4-4-1977 and had requested for finalisation of their case. 

Having regard to what has been s'ated In the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective, 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the powers vested in 
him under Sub-Clause fa) of Clause 9 of the Imports (Control) 
Order, 1955 as amended from time to time, hereby cancel 
the licence mentioned above issued in favour of the above 
said firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 


mTur 

ffrrff, 3 1 fW, 1977 

fffosno 2967, — trofr, UTSHPer tr 0 iffirPT 31, tTFPPT 

fspt- 1 1977 iff wife Prtr 2,00,000 

irr jjyq flit 9F?r it wrot itrir ^ faff Tnfaff tfwityf/ 
0264208, fa-ffa 15-3-77 5TOT falT WT IT I 

snj ^5jT>ro^ % yrfrr *nrfar ffTnfr irr fan ro $ 1 

Xfffaff, ror-ror tc irqwritfmr q-pntr (fatror) *rfar, 
1955 iff mrr 9 (ff) ^rtnffT ffir jpiti- srifaf TfMTifat 
5 S/ftffff /77 fatfa 18 - 3-77 TTif«ff ffo gfalH iff qf 

jff inff iff mff «ff fn fafar: ror *ff?pc isrw nmrt 
fa Tier srfffar 3m ^ffafan itot iff ararg % irff nff irr 
fan srTff 1 nnfa ir faff srfifan- m?f faff sirfanm 

'i'liri m rotrr nf fan ro «n w»r ffemff iffar ^ to 

ffufa w<fa Tlffa ir KTMfg t fafffa 24-3-77 iff fflt 

Ter iqjff jff ’ffan ^ fa nfafa Trnfaffait ^rr it #nt 
iinff fatn tro <n, Ttfa am 29-3-77 <h t* ff 
fra imw/ ifffan iff fall it fan | j-ijiff tr fft ^i?r mrffff 
iff TtfatT irrff % faff qr t ijf tsTfroT ff-Tirf it faff vgr 
nffr $ Tram: iff iftror irar ?ff[f snjff ff 1 

'jifar ttmT ff Tf it^r jprr Ttf otft if wff jff, 
wufarmsrtf in »tt if ffjte | fa to tot#tt iff rj itr fair 
rorr to wtot if mimil itr fan tirt TOfijff 1 in 
faff, nror-nTOr tt arernfaffaff rarod (fron) nfan, 1955 
iff tnrr 9 iff nr urn (ff) inr jttot wfwff m sfafa 
FufaFtrwrf it in ff irrrf faff Tff Ttrfftr itr ffd^- 
ira mu | 1 

[fafan ff«n tfff/55/ffft ff/77] 

ORDER 

Madras, the 31st March, 1977 

S.O. 2967. — M/s. Sakalcband A. Porwal, 31, Govindappa 
Naicken St, Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E/0264208 
dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2 lakhs for import of Dry Fruit for 
the period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M/s. 
Sakalchand A. Porwal, asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be 
cancelled for the reasons mentioned above. An opportu- 



■gRT qr trtt? : fwsr 24, 1977 /wrfwnT 2 , 1899 


3429 


[■<TPT If — jqnq 3 ( ii ) ] 


nity for personal hearing was also given to represent their 
case. In reply to the show cause notice, though they have 
sent a letter dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate stating 
that the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had ap- 
preciated the show cause notice and that they did not press 
for (he res oration of the licence in question or a personal 
hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the Govern- 
ment. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of (he powers vested 
in him under Sub-clause (a) of the clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order. 1955, as amended from lime to time, hereby 
cancel the licences mentioned above issued in favour of the 
above firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA /77J 

*rT°m° 2968 — ,qtfsff, JPtmtr mfo, 31 iftfar'T'n TPPfaT 

nTTfr-i q?r trfo'-vrrtf 1977 qff qqfsr $ fop 2, no, non 
pqif Jjvg % ^it qrr trprrr qfof $ fop qnrfor ttw qf/f/ 
0264 207, PlffH, 15-3-77 TTFT fqrqq P>TT 4T I 

gif mrr ^ fo qqfor Rnffor if Rifo »rr fort wr If 1 

irrfop, wr-wt mr wrrrafftrff srnrrff (bEERr) qq^qr, 
1955 qff tun 9 (p) % trtfor mp qrrprr jpmft uwn 
(Wt/55 /i iff p/ 77 , fqpj+, 18 - 3-77 mf'sft qqrpq qprR ppo qtf 
q* pqiir gp ^rtfo qff ipff qf fo bqfcRt ppq iffor pter 
*RTh fqt rr 'rnrffh 3 tr: qfoqfcpr qrpntr qff qqrjr if qtff 
ffff fan qrrp 1 irqif rrnfo % fop qfq^qq qrfo % fop 
qqfoppT p/mf «pt wer tff fan wr hit i qrpnrr tRugf qffaq 
•ft qRrw Sr gtofr qpfo *HCfHt T rustm if Ptnlsi 24-3-77 

fit pq> TP" qff 7, pi jrr ^ fip "iitdn qq-fx fa 7 % 

ST^TTE $fa 5 1 ~l faffT not PT, H 4tt^ «l 15 2 9- 3-7 7 % qqf 
Jr ^/pf qtrrnT fqmr mffo fit ’qfhrp- fan £ Tqfpr q fa 
Ufff pfafo fit gTfaf <pEf fop gf P fa sqfaTPT ^ 441 $ % 
fop far ^ *k*pr fir qfafTTP "ptpt qfa qrfaf Jr i 

qfaxx < in ini Jr fa qqff qq I fr faf TP if vail ^p, 
fruflpP-TPiRt RT fin if OTj'-e % fft 'SXX ’TTfRq fif 7^ ipT ffqT 
fTPIT Ttfirrr gq 5pap<n wq % WffPfT fR fw fTTr TTf^q I 
jfrfjpT, rptpr-irtpq Tr rrqTWrf«PT qWPT (fhq^RT) ftTiRT, 1955 
fir trm 9 fit qq-um (tf) gpi qqrr qfhfn : f fr qqlq ipr 
frul^HTSrff f.H qttr if jiiO ftiU qrr qf fxn ^rr^nu fh Oh I - 
anr ^ fRfT ^ i 

[falRR fffhT fhfr/5 5/Mu;/7 7] 
ORDER 

S.O. 2968.. — M/s. Prakash Kumar S., 31, Govindappa Nai- 
cken St,, Madras-t, were issued a licence No. P/E/0264207 
dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000/- for import of Dry Fruits 
for the period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has boon issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 duted 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of Hie Imports (Control) Ordei, 
1955 as amended from time to tinic, was issued to M/s, 
Prakash Kumar S.. asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be can- 
celled foi the reason mentioned above. An oppoiUmity for 
personal hearing was also given to represent their ease 
In reply to the show cause notice, though they have sent a 
80 GI/77-4 


letter dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate stating that 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29 3-1977, they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and that they did not 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a per- 
sonal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the 
Government. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in- 
effective. Therefore, the undet signed in exercise of the 
powers vested in him under Sub-clause (a) of the Clause 9 
of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended fiom time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above, issued 
in favour of the firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 

OT*l?r 

flTaSJN 2 96 9, — »l Pxft f IM IT o sht, ]/ 2 0 4 *D[f -4 LL I I flgfi*T 

qTFT-i ffr sqiN'-qH 1977 fft fprfif % firq 2 , on.ooo 
qq£ jpr % ^ qpq fT 5TPTPT fRif % faffr ^iTf^T TtffT 
0 6 4 2 n 6, fffftft 15-3-77 TfTT ffTffT W fT I 

Tf mu If fir ^ffrf iff It qrrff v 7, forr jptt 1 1 

e*i in q*tf-+tuq qr ^pf m" vi" 1 iu n frpm ( fitdd'ti ) vt if ji 

1955 qfr dm 9 (p) % wtjfq mp frmr qqptff gqrr rfwr ^Nfr 

5 5 /ttfl u./ 7 7 , fqqlft 18 - 3-77 VI I '(ft fH rfo iTf 

jwft frpff nff rpft qtqg ^ nfftpr ftmr qqrn 

fift OTT HTTPfff 37TT fTTOJC JOfit if Tfr fcgf 

fan x 1 1 ' I s -ii Ttqif u Ifil) % fJfu. gPt^ 44 7 74 % Pf r ( *q[f fTf 

^prrf <pt twn; iff ftn wr tt i ftrcei snuff tffRpq % fnrrq 

^ qnfir TAfft qqif qqifw it utoet it fiprift 24-3-77 tfft 
qor qg qtgif jir ^tt t ftt stitStt nisf jiEhu. ^rt it qq/rn: 
5 fqr ftrff ferr ipit an, qr^ qiq 29-3-77 it q^ if ^qffi 
PM JTTlfft qffoq tilfilr fipqT S ^ tff T 4'1 5 fnif*T 

fit fTfipT ftrrf ^7 fiqrr pq rf fff oqfVmH U'l X I i it Pqn ptgq Vi 3 ' 
i *t * q» 1 * ftf q 7 iimu TTffT utfl 1 if 1 

inqiqt if qft q. v qtgq qqq ^ ptr if J q 4 jrr, 
quirvqtqt ft set fin if S’ fit TxT tTirifiT qtt qrr fqgT 

mm qrfwp qr Tpq«n *q ir wsErrif qtr fqqT ■Jiqqq qqf^q 1 
Tqf fpr, JTmq-Tnrq qr qanwrfmq WTqrr (fqqsrq) rTt, 1955 
qfr qqrq 9 qff (jq-unq (tf) jirr qqrr wfawf r gqfq q-q 
q-qfgrTPSrff qrf % qsq ir Tpif fim piq c^Vr 't I idu qff mr^- 
ffpr qmq t 1 

[Wtr rfwr fWt / 5 5 /lrftT / 7 7] 

ORDER 

S.O. 2969.. — M/s. Shantilal A. Iain. 1/204 Govindappa 
Naicken Street, Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E / 
0264206 dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2.00,000/- for import of 
Dry Fruits for the period \.M, 77. 

it has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M k, 
Shantilal A. Jain asking them to show cause within a speci- 
fied time ns to why the said licence should not be can- 
celled for the reason mentioned above. An opportunity for 
personal hearing was also given to represent their case, hi 
reply to the show cause notice, though they have sent a 
letter dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate slating that 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 



3430 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II -Sec. 3(ii)] x 


but in their subsequent letter tinted 29-3-1977. thev had 
apperciated the show cause notice and that they did not 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a 
personal hearing and that they did not wish to cm harass the 
Government. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied (hat the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in- 
effective. Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the 
powers ve'tcd in him under Sub-cl'ause (a) of the Clause 9 
of t he Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended from time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above, issued 
in favour of the above firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 

STTfor 


Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is sa-.isfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in- 
effective. Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the 
power vested in him under Sub-clause (a) of the Clause 9 
of Ihe Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended f;om time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above, issued 
in favour of the above firm. 

[File No. .10/55/ ECA/771 

“W I S ill 

fffsWf0 2971. — To faq, 1 / 2 0 4 RtfiWffT TT95Fr 
RCTR ifafafa-qiH 1977 fa qqfur fa faff 2,00,000 tfaf 
tjrar % fief qtt WM «f?fa % fan rtHfafa fawt faf/f/0264206 

fad 15-3-77 MS Ip ffaff qqf qf I 


vtsjtTo 2 6 70, — Rfafa, tpffir frtrrr ft, 3i, J fifamm i qp -H. q Dfa 
*nrRT - 1 fa faK-infa 1977 fa *nfsr % fan 2 , 00,000 nr?' 
iett fa tet *ft qwnT *rfa fa fan Miiifa tmn fa/ #/ 

0264204, farfa 15-3-77 TPTTq faqTqqfqT I 

9T tUT fftrr & fa yffat fTTtfafa fa unfa itt fan mn H i 

* J ffan, fraff-frotr Tf qqtfaifafaiq mro (fafar) qfatr, 

1955 fa srm 9 ( n ) % *rfaq mp qrmtr jhphI fafqr iff r/ 

SS/ttffrr/ 77 , fad fat 18-3-7 7 qfafa Jpffaf f JfTT fao Tit m ijtfa 
^n unfa fa ipff fa fip ffafas jrqir % faq-f Brnruf jpTTfa ffa 
33W7T HTTiff SPr fafaffapt VPvr fa fa ^ faf qfa faff 

'>TTn I Ttg (79% jtptA fa fan qMqq *frrfa' it fatf STfflKfffff 
pirf *FT HTfPTE fa ter IRT «TT I Tfnrr qmfa faftff it ORR 
fa tnofr writ 4+1 h % qrnfff if farfa 24 - 3-77 >r?f uqt 
ffff it? qtgfa 517 fam I fa srrtffa- qtfarfw g+Rf ittpjmnr ?ffa 
^nfa faff qtrr «rr, 9775 ret 29 - 3-77 fa 919 fa afafa 
vmr qqrfa fafar iff wffair farr far qrfafa q fa qqq fftffar 

fa Rifat Tfa % fan PT q fa sqfam tffqrf % fan 

*ftr fa HTTR fa qfatfiq qrtqf qfa wt if | 

'jfafar Trnmt if fa ip^r ipur $ far sqrq if qurfa jn 
wtftfiRTSrff w ret if qqpq . 1 fc fa fqnfaif nff qrr fan 
ttett mffat rt qnpn vr if w»uif vt fan urpn Tifar 1 ^r-- 
fatr, fnnT’m it RsrRfvffffpr unwr (fafavr) qrivi 1955 gtf 
*rm 9 qff wm(r) irt sru qftppTA snffir ipr wtri- 
fPnrefaf tut it n£T if ^trrff farr qn ijiffaf snrjn +1 u n eg 1 v 1 
Tf TTfU ^ 1 

[?fw itff/ 5 5/^rffn/ 7 7 ] 

ORDER 

S.O. 2970. — -Mi/s. Pradeep Kumar, P., 31, Govindappa 
Naickcn Street, Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E,' 
0264204 dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000/- for Import of 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause nolice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 
1955 as amended from time to lime, was issued lo M/s. 
Pradeep Kumar P.. asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as lo why the said licence should not be 
cancelled for the reason mentioned above. An opportunity 
for personal hearing was also given to represent their case. 
In reply to the show cause notice, though they have sent n 
letter dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate stating that 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Nolke. 
but in their subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and that they did not 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a 
personal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the 
Government. 


tr^ im tut | fa 'jTfar ^rrefar ret ff srrft tt fan mrr fr 1 
TttfaR, mPT-RTfR qr q«rrc™ifspT tcptet (fafang) nfar, 

1 955 qfr sm 9(u) rpjfa r fa +rryr Z*nft ^SRT tpmfuft/ 
55/{fffa/77 faffa 1 a 3 77 Wfl~ ®J14*TK Uo tSfa fft 
fir TTTft 4?f nff aft fa fa face wr % 'rffar qtmr qrntf fa 344 
*rrnfa Tffafarr gnm 4?r mnt ?r nff fan 

rnff 1 mfa unfa % fan sfafarr 4rfa % fan rnfarnr 
ftr w vff fan mn m 1 srmfr tfrfztr % swet 
J f nofa : 37ffa mfa ttqffa ^ mwi if farfa 21 - 3-77 fa ffa 
qw R? Tqfa jrr wJtT ^ fa 'mrfar qfaTrfaE qfr 5R7TR ifa 

fan mn nr, qnfj ^?fa amt 29 - 3-77 v tt if gmir 
qmfa fafaq fa fafarr ffan wk ^fa T m ttwt fa 
nfar Tfar ^ fan rt q jff xqfappr ufarrf ^ fa wfa t 
ff'+Tf fa qfviH qtw qjff qfaf q 1 

yffar kuirq, ir far jbi wr qtrr ^ uif srpt fa njfa ffr, 
w rtt fa | fa -jqq rnfafa fa Tf m hqi 
arm qrfaT qr qvqqq Wff fa qsrqifaf qrr ffaqr TTEfl Tlffaff 1 
Tfafar, qqq-tnrq qp qqrfafarftET TflRTT (fafaq) Kffajf, 19 55 
fa HTTT ufaTT-ETPT (p) JTTT IRT qfafTff qtl qfafq qn frfa- 
tje-n I eri -0 qfa ^ 95T fa rnfa fan qrr ^Tffajf fa rrqq^pjT 

rar | i 

[faW : fafaf/5 5/ffafa/7 7)] 

ORDER 

S.O. 2971. — M/s. Chhaga.nlal A. Jain, 1/204, Govindappa 
Naickcn St„ Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E/ 
0264209 dated 15-3-1977 for Rs. 2,00,000/- for import of 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 

Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9ta) of the Import (Control) Order 
1955 as amended from time lo lime, was issued to M/s! 
Chhanganlal A. Jain, asking rhem to show cause within a 
specified time as to why the said licence should not be can- 
celled for the reason mentioned above. An opportunity for 
personal hearing was also given to repiescnt their case. 
In reply to the show cause nolicc, though -hey have sent a 
letter dated 24^3-1977 through their Advocate staling that 
ihe hcence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 
but in l heir subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and that ihcy did not 
press for the restoration of the licence in question or a 
personal hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the 
Government. 

Having regard to what has been slaled in the preceding 
paragraphs the undersigned is sn is lied ihat the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in- 
effective, Therefore, Ihe undersigned in exercise of the 
powers vested in him under Sub-clause, (a) of the Clause 9 
of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 as amended fiorn time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above, issued 
in favour of th© firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 




TO o 3fT o 2972. — rfer), ^PfTPIT "T'll T, fir v l/ 2 0 4 I <1 f M «f>7T 

f^fe, TT5FT-1 TO wife-nT# 1977 TO TTTfa T fetf 2,00,000 
T®® 5TRT T TOT TO ®T®T® 1RT % ferr rfTWTT TTW 'ft/f/ 
0264210, fe®fe 15-3-77 JTTO® fTOTT TOTT TT I 

®fT TOST JTfal TOWR TJ® T ?fet TOT fen TOT £ I 

^ferr, ®u®-®®® TO To 1 4 { U |1 ftr?T 'HP 4 RT (feTSFT ) ®fe?r, 
19 5 5 =pV ffm 9(o) %■ TOffero TO 7 TTTO TOTTOT TJTOTT TtWTT afeT 
55 /frfrn;/ 77 1 fe®fe 18 - 3-77 TO'-TT TOJTfe J®R ®f ° TO TO 
fO,' TOR) 1?t TOTt TO fe faf^ TOTO % ^faR TR® TOTT® fe TOTOT 

totto® tor d fer fen tot 7 ,j r iff totw it TO *^1 to^t tot fen 

®TTT | 5 TTO TOtfe % fen trfifeT® 4 '7 % feQ TOfelTO" 

TRiT? TO TOTOR *Rft fe®T TOn TO TOTTO TOTOtff H~lftL-y ^ TOTO 

if irerfro tto^tot tott TOfer % utstot it feriro 24 - 3-77 TO to 
tot tot tojt f® tojit fe TOffer oi^toT^to ^ TOtor sfe 

ITRt froro TOT TO, TTOJ "TOTTO TOT 2163-77 il W if TOtTO 

tot® tottstt ®tfe® to toIttot fero ®fe 3 fei 8 4 " to ®tot ®tt- 
®® to arrft® toto % trot to t ift TOferro Tfrirf * f’TT W 

®fe if TOTOR TOT TTOTFr TOTO Tift TOfjT if I 

TOfro 'ferarro it to tott tot $ TO sro® it 7 ^ g®, 
5TtTH*TO«Rt TOT *rm it TOTf-T t fe TORT TOIffer Tt TOT fen 
fen TOTO TOT%R TO TTfeTO TO % HTVWfet TO feTO TOTO Tlfe) I 
TOrfroti rto-ttto to totoWtot totott (fro' stir) wfe®, 1955 
ift TOTO 9 TO) TOT-ttRT(ft) TOTO Tin ®faTOR) TO STOTTOT TO 

wr^rorrertt to® to w it tot) fen fe fell® ®mf® to ®®^- 
irt ?\ totto S 1 

[TO5TO ^tft/5 5 /fTffe /7 7 ] 

ORDER 


fetfe 

TfSTft, 20 ^®, 1977 

TO^Ufe 29 7 3.— ®fejr ®TOT CTffa TO? Rtr/sfefe/ 4 /rt T ift/ 
7()-77, ferfe 5 - 10-76 if mferr TOrfemn *r fe to fim® fetrr 
tor $ fe ferofeffeT 9 toto® ®rfe®t iff to, to* faro tr 
toto fen - ttttt :— 

1 2 3 

fen it; ro 

1 . (ft/fTfr /8 2300 3 9 /TOt/RTTOrr^Tt / 5 2 /TETO 16-8-74 31,557/- 

/39-40/05/24 

2. ft /tRt /8 2 3 004(1 /€t/5fRtR / 2 / „ 1 5,773/- 

TRt/39-40/0 5/2 4 

3. Tt/ IT® / 8 2 3 0 0 4 1 /^TR/iTTRTTT/ 5 2 / „ 1 5,778/- 

0®/ 3 9- 4 O/O 5/ 2 4 

4. Tt /n?f / 8 2 25808 /Tfr/'t ! KfeRr/58/ 29-3-76 31,556/- 
fTTT / 3 9- 4 0 / 0 5/253 

5. Tt /n®/ 8 225a09/'ffR/t]fel[TO/5 8 / „ 18,934/- 

0 ®/ 39-40/05/253 

6 . "ft nrr/8565476 /nt/nronORT/ 5 8/ 26-2-76 31,557/- 

(Rt/4 1-42/05/28 

7- Tt /ntt/ 8565477 /mx/f^fl^/ 5 8/ „ 18,933/- 

(T®/4 1-42/05/28 

8. TO /Tpr/ 8225805 /nt/tfefef®/ 5 8/ 29-3-76 31,556/- 

TOt/ 4 1-42/0 5/28 

9- It /n® /8225806 /HR/rnfeTO/58/ „ 1 8,934/- 

nn/ 41 - 42 / 05/28 


S.O. 2972. — M/s. Ashok Kumar, C . , 1/204, Govindappa 
Naicken Street, Madras-1, were issued a licence No. P/E/ 
0264210 dated 15-3-1977 lor Rs. 2,00.000/- (or linpon of 
Dry Fruits for the period AM 77. 

It has been noticed that the above licence has been issued 
inadvertently. 


[totsto to r? r (fe r ° it » / 4 /nJT»t/ 76-77] 

%o n®;, ®n:o im®,®q-jji5(rfeTTtri7 

(Iron and Steel Division) 

ORDER 


Therefore, a show cause notice No. JC/55/ECA/77 dated 
18-3-1977 under Clause 9(a) of the Imports (Contiol) Order, 
1955 as amended from time to time, was issued to M/s. 

Ashok Kumar. C., asking them to show cause within a 
specified time as to why ihe jaid licence should not be can- 
celled for the reason mentioned above. An opportunity for 
personal hearing was also given to represent their case. In 
reply to the show cause notice, though they have scut a 
letter dated 24-3-1977 through their Advocate stating (hat 
the licence has been issued correctly as per Public Notice, 
but ill their subsequent letter dated 29-3-1977, they had 
appreciated the show cause notice and they did not press 
for the restoration of the licence in question or a personal 
hearing and that they did not wish to embarass the Govern- 
ment. 

Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding 
paragraphs, the undersigned is satisfied that the licence in 
question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered in- 
effective. Therefore, the undersigned in exercise of the 
powers vested in him under Sub-clause (a) of the Clause 9 
of the Imports (Control) Order. 1955 as amended from time 
to time, hereby cancel the licence mentioned above, issued 
in favour of the above firm. 

[File No. JC/55/ECA/77] 


Madras, the 20th June, 1977 

S O. 2973.— In partial modification of Order No. 1 & S/TP/ 
4/MD/76-77 dt, 5-10-76, it has been decided to revoke the can- 
cellation and reinstate the undermentioned nine import licences : 

1. P/S/8230039/C/XX/52/M/39-40/05/24 dt, 16-8-74— Rs. 3 1,557 

2. P/S/8230040/T/OR/52/M/39-40/05/24 dt. 16-8-74— Rs. 15,778. 

3. P/S/8230041/R/ML/52/M/39-40/05/24 dt. 16-8-74— Rs. 15,778 

4. P/S/8225808/C/XX/58/M/39-40/05/253 dt. 29-3-76— 

Rs. 31,556. 

5. P/S/8225809/R/ML/58/M/39. 40/05/253 dt. 29-3-76— 

Rs. 18,934. 

6. P/S/8565476/C/XX/58/M/41. 42/05/28 dt. 26-2-76— 

Rs. 31,557. 

7. P/S/8565477/R/ML/58/M/41 .42/05/28 dt. 26-2-76— 

Rs. 18,933. 

8. P/S/8225805/C/XX/58/M/41 . 42/05/28 dt. 29-3-76— 

Rs. 31,556. 

9. P/S/8225806/R/ML/58/M/41 .42/05/28 dt. 29-3-76— 

Rs. 18,934. 

[No. 1&S/TP/4/MD/76-77] 

K. M, R. MEN ON, D/. Cnief Cj itrolfe- 



3432 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec, 3(ii)] 

TPtfOR tjfo RWTHq 

HIT/fET ROTT PT4T 
pf ftrfar, 1977 - 09-01 

pH°3tT° 2 9 74; — PRpfa Pm P P PT (PPPPP faflf) fafapp 195S Pt fsrfpqp, 7 % pqfafqqp ( 3 ) «ft tpjPR PfTtffP Pm 
prqr srrr wfagfap fart urt t fa sit pfpq •tmin') PPTP % fan; «p pr nft pfp sphE ryR ppH qfr «£rp pqy q) p fan tttt ssiVt 
^ p»jpr fPtrfFfa w\ pf £ wfa p? iftp 1977 - 07-01 4 ppj; ifaft 1 

*W* 

ptppppt 3?m/ 3?TTP “Wt PWPPnfl PTPPt *RT IPFPPT tfR ¥ffifa RFTt pfa Tprr^ P{JT PF1R 

"( 3 ) ~ oo ~£o 

IS -• 4454 (WR ] )-1975 sit vfar mp 4fa4t 5P Po 3,00 

aPTHfr % fair IfrptP % PR^F fafa- 
fe KHT 1 , 4?mP tv fap 
Tpttp 5ft pfpfap prr (Tjm yfar- 
stp) 

[4wt Eftorrifoito/ 1 3 : 1 0] 

MINISTRY OF CIVIL SUPPLIES AND CO-OPERATION 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 
New Delhi, the 1977-09-01 

S.O. 2974. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) 
Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution, hereby, notifies that the marking fee per unit for Steel wire for cold formed springs 
details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been determined and the fee shall come into force with cfiect from 
1977-07-01. 

SCHEDULE 

SI. Product/C lass of No. and Title of Relevant Unit Marking Fee per Unit 

No. Product Indian Standard 

TP (2) 31 D> ~ (4) 

1. Steel wire for cold formed IS : 4454(Pt l) — 1975 Spccifica- One Tonne 
springs tion for steel wire for cold 

formed springs. 

Part I Patented and cold drawn 
steel wire-unalloyed 
(first revision) 

[No. CMD/13 : 10] 

ptT° PT° 2 97 J:-- ATT *147 IT PPtfap PP/ftP PTPV PPPT (PPPPP fafl) fPPP, 195 5%fpPP, 4 5ft gpfqfptjp (l) % 

PRpfa Pm PEPt 3TTT pft|*|fap fapT RTtTT £ fa PRTt 4 Ppr pmt faljf fpslffa fapT | fatfat fanrtfP wtfeft faernr n<tt PR?ftp 

pm ^ vfrfa 4 nt I 1 

PRtffa pm pept (aprpp fain) trftrfapp, 1952 pV p*fa srcffajrT fpqpl % fpfpp pit pm fa^ 1977 - 07-01 4 ptp ?>fi 1 

WP^ft 

p.p PTPft fan ifit PtPPT/^tPK 4>V ^ u fl qrRrflrtf, fll <T.P PRPt pf PWt pfa Itftrfa Plpqyq?' fTPRP qp rrtfatip fprpp 

P5PT fapt^P 

(T) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) H) ( 5 ) — 

sftPfap «FP(Pi Tfpn IS: 4454 (PtP 1 (- 1975 5ff pfip YtPFft PRtfW pm PRTt TT PtPtlllP fapif 

^PTTP 5ft PR % fart IRPTP % PR ift fqfafa: PTP 1ST EPtp ( 2 ) 4 fastlf 

CT-rmp pfa 5 % fuA ^ptrt 5ft pf ^tfr «*R *P|pra 4 pur fam 

pfpfwp PR I put | wfa UpT fYPTSP p fpiSIPT 

('mifpAsiw) HPf | to PfPTtrtP 5ft aqc 4fl wr 

PIP^hT jpppr qft TPPPPT ift Pt 



(5) 

Rs. 3.00 


(>i) (.2D 

1 , tfr pItt qrprpt 5ft fan ^rpTp 5ft pr 


[PPPT 43 otrpo^l 0 / 1 3 : y] 


3433 


[*mr II — giTT 3 ( ii ) ] '*TP^T 'FT 7DPPT ffidWU 24 , 1977/Wrfm 2, IH99 

S. O. 2975.— In pursuance of sub-rule (I) of 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian 
Standards Institution, hereby notifies (hat the Standard Mark, design of which together with the verbal description of the design and 
the title of the relevant Indian Standard is given in the Schedule hereto annexed, has been specified. 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regula- 
tions framed thereunder, shall come into force with effect from 1977-07-01 : — 

SCHEDULE 


SI. No. Design of the Product/Class of Product No. and Title of the Relevant Verbal description of the 

Standard Mark Indian Standard Design of the Standard Mark. 


(!) ( 2 ) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


1 


i s;44 1-* 



Steel wire for cold formed springs 


IS : 4454(Pt. I)— 1975 Speci- 
fication for steel wire for cold 
formed springs 

Part I Patented and cold drawn 
steel wire-unalloyed. 

(first tevision) 


The monogram of the Indian 
Standards Institution, consis- 
ting of letters ‘1ST, drawn in 
the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in 
Col. (2); the number of the 
Indian Standard being super- 
scribed on the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in 
the design. 


[No. CMD/I3 : 9] 


19 7 7-09-0 2 

rtlo 2976 — W'T JTtpT TT fiuftftTT VTP'rttlT JTPPft fiW (ttnWT 1955 4? faffirPT 14 4? i'tfafnJPT ( 4 ) 

4; tT'J'Trt *TR7Tfa JTPPF timr 5 TO fan, atpilfc fa TtTlfa #0 *frotr<T»/tr*r-:J29 1 fan* itffv fir* fatten #, rmfiURT fffPT flT^l 

sRmr 4^ ^ * trit i 977-07-0 1 * ipr fain im £ 1 

num? rmpfa wwt ffa TrTfintrrft *pt am ttfa trrr fop; rrtr nrrfa * fiwpsptfr tnrfifa rmro 

stfir-t ar^/stfaitT 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


1. fifinT/mT-3 291 fi’IttjTrfrvt fao fifa.fa'TT ^ (Wit- 44T»r IS: 21197 — 1 9 62 f fat 

i 973-01-08 TT : 3 66 fifa ntfi, smt ) fafafe 

[fio rflocnrofto/ 5 5:3 2 hi] 
o trno ^ tie <.n, wnrirTo fafaw 


New Nelhi, Dated 1977-09-02 

S.O. 2976. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (4) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standards (Certification Marks), Regulations 1955 as 
amended from time to time, Ihc Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that Licence No, CM/L — 3271 particulars of which are 
given below has been cancelled with effect from 1977-07-01 as the firm has stopped production of the material : 


SI. No. Licence No. and date Name & Address of the Licensee Article/Process Covered by the Relevant Indian Standards 

Licensees Cancelled 


(1) (2) 


(3) 

(4) 


(5) 

1. CM/L-3291 
1973-01-08 


Bbor Industries Ltd. Bhor, Distt, 
Poona (Office: 386 Veer 

Savarkar Marg, Bombay), 

Tracing cloth 


IS : 2037—1962 Specification 
for tracing cloth. 


[No. CMD/55 : 3291] 
Y. S. VENKATESWARAN, Addl. Director General 






343 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 

iiwr schedule 


zf hu-Tl , 1 f'lm', 1977 
3n» 2 97 7. — mf: iff OT nHbf ijhTT | 

fa qffafar if iTT srnuy* b fa tt^t if 4° n*f° 4f° 

tfWo it rpT° 4fo '(‘I, iff" o iffo n^To-i qff iflff4 TPdf <115,7 'T’TT 

’TfrHrcnr $ hfaqrm % f 44 w ?=ttpt 4 m mir ni*.fd*b mr 
wfam am fawt tt4t wt%4 i 

qq ; q^ snffa sffqT | fa faff >tty4t qfr 14 si 4 % 
swT»r % ffrif mf’VTRS FFJ^ 4 qfaff fN if 3WT 2TT 

VI fVj 7 1 T '< wffaf T "1 1 (TTTW’Ti f, I 

FPL; WW iffafaqTf 4fa ifa^T trr^'FTTfq' ('<jf4 if dldTl 
4 wfaw «pt wfar) wfai^rEr, i»02 ( 1 9 6 2 <rrr so) 4f 
am 3 4 f ^rsrpT ( 1 ) an Tm arf*raaf tt ffafa qmr 5^ 
%v£fa tmm if Tfat imfar >m wffam wfam qrfa air ww 
smurf naaan 4rffaf fam £1 

w»m fa *r [faros 4tt qqfar, '*jfq 4 4f4 

< 1 1 t m - i n m Hw4 % faff sffifar mim wffafnrf, far mm wfar far 
wrqfar, ffarfa wfa farnm 5r'*mT, anm m q-farT-y 4 r m 
wfa^mT Jiff orfar 4 2 1 fart 4 '4fr m fatmr 1 

wfa fan wfan n qwr tt arfan fafafaqr: qr 4t 
qfaff fa Wf *TK aif^l % IT mfaf d/T-Trif qqfanrr: ft WT fatff 
fqftj aqqoitTl iff nfad l 


arnrfaf 

qqfjfo nyr o #fo rnpTe if 5^0 ?ffo t[o rtifo qfo rrtjio Tfro affo n 0 - I 



1 : 

1: 

e 




Tpm ; ipprm 




4*- 

rnm 

rftq 



fWTTt 

4rif- 

qr 


1 1 1 

0 

(Id 

48 


80 

0 

(18 

6 4 


81 

0 

03 

84 


[4* 12010 / 4/7 7-sftTwa] 

MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM 

New Delhi, the 1st September. 1977 

S.O. 2977. — Whereas it appears to the Central Govern- 
ment that it is necessary in the public interest that for Ihe 
transport of petroleum from Well No. SDX to line connect- 
ing to SBF-GGS-I in Gujarat State pipelines should be 
laid by the Oil & Natural Ga s Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying 
such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of User 
in the land described in the schedule annexed hereto; 

Now, threfore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 3 of the Petroleum and 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of user in land) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby 
declares its intention to ucquirc the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, 
within 21 days from the date of this notification, object to 
the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent 
Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction & 
Maintenance Division, Makarputa Road, Vadodara-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also 
state specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person 
or by a legal practitioner. 


Acquisition of Right of User from Well NO. SDX to Line 
Connecting ROU SBF-GGS-I 


State : Gujarat 

District : Mehsana 

Taluka : 

: Mehsana 

Village 

Survey No. 

Hec- 

tare 

Are 

Centi- 

are 

Hebuva 

Ill 

0 

03 

48 


80 

0 

08 

64 


81 

0 

03 

84 


[No, 1 20 1 6/4/77- Prod . ] 

df fafaf, 7 favfRTr, 197 7 

STTc 2978. — HA Yfafaqn Wfa >jf4ir TirTTr^q (qftf 

$ nqqfar 4 TTbsFFTT qnFffar) wErffam, 1002 (1002 qn 50 ) 
4t am ;t 4f nonm ( 1 ) % warn ■qmr n^pr ^Tfrfsm 

rWHq qff wftr^Fff WTo *fo 7fi7 TfrpJ 1 5-2-77 3TLT 

Itfiffq' WTqrrr if ta wEr^qrqr ff WfTsfr 4 Hfqfar z mffrttf 
T77ITT7 % wEnttr Tf TIT7 'mmf Tf ftf5Pf T tpfmpf % Epr 
Wfhpf 8tf WT8T WTPPT UlPfi fqrrT WT I 

wV qm: rrsftf mfa'frft 4 T57 wfifErtm TftrrfT a qft 
aqtim ( i ) «it wtfbr awn: Td fWft ^ 4f £ i 

qflr wt 4, tpr fftqffw fiTTnt 4 TPr fNm tt frwrr qrr4 
T 9?^ SW Wfir»fA-Tt 4 tfrfrq ’R^J'ff 4 vjfmff 4 

aPTfn Tt wfaqip; wEtt <pq4 q;r FfEfTWT Erdr If i 

ot, wm: -J 5 T wfcfFpnT # am « ipf ^Ttnyr ( 1 ) irra 
95H trfipr fT tpjfq jfP H ■PM <. ttrf^Sm qtbTT fFTTf 
tf fT Vf wftpjtmr 4 4sfm w^4f 4 frfafirsr njfitrsfr Jf 
^rnfm qtr wfuqrrf: wt Fartspf ^ 4r W n^jTO- 

nfj)T Itiu i nit ^ i 

wfr, WFT Ijq urm qfr TTIJI7T ( l) 3Tm qtfT vrhfTqf qtf 

spfpr qnm jtt 4mfrq qrmrn: Frflf’r iffr 4 far fftr wf44f 4' 
zvnz wfjftrr frmfm +h*mx 4 Nfkq ^f4 4 ttr rffr 
srrifTw 4 >t wr4m 4, w4f 44Ti 4 rptr req 4, Tlrm % wrum 
qt4 Tnt'T tu fqfffir t>tt i 


jqifd qq’t’ Yff Tfo 4 *dd 8 4 fo wf<’ Tft TT 5 T - 3 TFd RiaH 

% f44 


~rjiq . 

fmmr wV dpqqtr 



qm 

rNdpq 4<! 

44^43: 

St* 

rrurnT 

tfTlqr 

4?WFfr 

2004/288 

0 

1 1 

40 


2004/ 287 

0 

0 r> 

60 


20 04/ 2 80 

0 

0 1 

00 


2004/285 

0 

0 8 

04 


2004/280 

0 

0 1 

00 


2004/ 28 l/4f 

0 

0 8 

40 


2 0 0 4/281 /4r 

0 

0 6 

8 4 


2004/279 

0 

06 

00 


[4o 120] fl/2/76-’TTo IJHJ fTo] 



fm II — a(ii)] 


tot to 'Htot ■ Itotttt 24 , 197 7 /arrf^ 2 , is a 9 


3435 


New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2978. — Whereas by a notification of the Governmenl 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum, S.O. 767 dated 1,1-2-77 
under sub-section (1) of seetion 3 of the Petroleum and 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962) the Central Government declared its 
intention to acquire the Right of User in the lands specified 
in the schedule appended to that notification for the purpose 
of laying pipeline; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Governmenl; 

And further whereas (he Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquit e the Righ of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Ccnrtal 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti- 
fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 


'tjfjpfj if TOTfe TO trfaTOT TO TOTT t trtftSR % fair 

’Muslin Trfro fen ttrt £ t 

ttV, mil to am qfr TOum ( t) tut tot nfefer to 
tnfim to% ^rr jpferr JTTqqr froT TOT fe Tf=r qfrpfr if TOTOr 
TO wfuTOT %fetT TOTOT if fefipT KPT % JDTR 5T sftT 

g r y fi ro 4m m m pi if tott mnnff if mur *"4 m to totto % 
totot *4 ft top? to fafipr £tto i 

* to ph ipq tTHr r at hr totfu to to q=r.' toto 2 ttt 

^ 9157 "IT ■ 4 

toto . xmm femr ■ firTnnrr to^to . iferr- 

mrorfe 

TOT 77 TOC f TO TO tfr *p€t- 


And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
section 14) of that section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user ip the said lands shall instead of vest- 
ing in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub- 
lication of this declaration in the Oil A Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 

SCHEDULE 

For Laying Pipeline from D. S. SBD to D.S, SDO 


State : Gujarat District & Taluka : Mehsana 


Village 


Mehsana 


Survey No. Area 


Hcc- 

Are Centi- 

tare 

are 


2004/288 

0 

11 

40 

2004/287 

0 

06 

60 

2004/286 

0 

01 

00 

2004/285 

0 

08 

64 

2004/280 

0 

01 

00 

2004/28 1/P 

0 

08 

40 

2004/28 1/P 

0 

06 

84 

2004/279 

0 

06 

00 


[No. 120I6/2/76-L & L] 


TO TO 2 97 9. — TO; 'i-Jlf'-rcta Xffe tfffejr 9feT TOTT (mfe 
% TTTOT t xrftTTOT TO tTTO) wfuffeTO, 1962 ( J 9 6 2 TO 
51)) n4 TOT 3 iff TOTOT ( 1 ) % TOXET 7TTTOT TOTOT qft- 

farot tfV totto rndum (4^tfero feTOi) t 4 nfaxpur tro 

TO 7° 5 14 7 Trfel 1 7-1 1-75 5TTT fefer 7TTOT 4 TO 

wfegroT if w if fefefesj vjftfef mwlm % xrfir- 

tot to TTrT nTTOt TO firera % toIto % fair xrffer to4 to 
xtott toft nffro fen «n i 

xfU to; tout mfwTff 4 tot, xrftrfeTm iff tot a 
totott ( i ) fe xrtfTm top nfr fefft t fr 1 1 

xffr tot, to; TOtfrn mrorr 4 tot feft4 qr fern: tot4 
% TTOPl TO tTferpTOT 7 7TO7 TOT/fTt 4 fepfesT Hffelff 4 
TOfPT TO XTfTOTT pfTO TOT TO fefenpT fepT % I 

5TP to: TOT XtftrfenT 44 TOT 6 44 TOTOT ( 1 ) jm 
tmt stfer to toft top %mrht tttot tpttjttt iftfro 
TOrff 4 fe TO trftr^TOT if TPTOT if fefefe^ TO5T 


Tfeff fer 


6 7 54T 

0 

0 

30 

6 759 

0 

4 

1 8 

6 7 8 1 ? 

0 

2 

01 

6 7 6T 

0 

21 

94 


[TO 12620/4/75-fero tfT tftTo] 

S.O. 2979.— Whcrc.'ts by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (De- 
partment of Petroleum) S.O. No. 5147 dated 17-11-1975 
under sub-section (1) of seetion 3 of the Petroleum and 
Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the Right of User in the lands speci- 
fied in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
section (1) of seetion 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 


Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti- 
fication hereby acquired for Inying the pipelines; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (4) of that section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in Ihe said lands shall instead of vest- 
ing in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub- 
lication of this declaration in the Oil At Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


SCHEDULE 


Pipeline from Rudrasagar well No. 81 to Rudrasagar 
GGS No. 2 

State ; Assam District ; Sibsagar Taluk : Mctckabon 


Gaon. 

Village 

Survey 

No. 

Hec- 

tare 

Arc 

Centi- 

are 

Rupahibil 

. 675 Cha 

0 

0 

80 


675 Ga 

0 

4 

18 


678 Kha 

0 

2 

01 


676 Ka 

0 

21 

94 


[No. 12020/4/75-L & LJ 



3436 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER ?4, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part IT— Sec. ^i)] 


Wo 3TT» 2 98 0. — WW, -ft fc-f) ft4t4> 
16-12-1974, 5 A 7 RTl'T 4TJ4 (^Ft fi" 44414 fl 

xrftrwr: w 444 ), 4fyf404, 1962 , fwr-4F44iw 1 

ftf i ffun r 4 V: uTrtr 94W4T74 4faf444, 1902 urn 

3 1 ?r 49 -SITTT ( 1 ) 4*17 WTTT 6 4 ?) ' 34 -hP 7 ( 1 ) $ ^C’T’T'T 

’jsp.PT ttj 4 % ftr'rr inwTRK Jr ?rn=j*rrr ^tr’er, 4T4-4ft4I44 

if <£4 ffwr 36 if jfto 491 a if r^To f(o-53 'fT fl 

^nfPr w wfawn:, <nwmw Fran if fan fjrfaiPT wtit4, 
4* ft-f) 949144 . 4Rt«iw ff'STr j 120 16 / 12 / 74-^0 
FtTRR 1 6-12-1974 44T 4W 1 20 1 6/ 1 2/74-419° 4,7? 4*r 0 

f44fa 30-6-1975 ft 4T4 ffaw 449(41 if 74T4 97 44 if 4fa 

iff of *njyff oir t rf i 





fair 




*rffefPT 

4° 



nffsur l^thT Twrf Jrcbrr: 

250/ 1 

0 03 

12 

250 0 on 12 


[9641 1 2 0 1 6/ 1 2/ 7 4-lf^T o 47* tTtTo] 


ERRATUM 

S.O. 2980. — Ministry of Petroleum, New Delhi, dated 
16-12-74, Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of Users 
in Land), Act, 1962, District — Ahmedabad. 

In schedule appended to the Government Notification 
Ministry of Petroleum, New Delhi No. 12016/12/74-L&L dated 
16-12-1974, issued under section 3(1) and Notification No. 
12016/12/74-L&L dated 30-6-1965 issued under section 6(1) of 
Petroleum Pipelines Act, 1972, for the acquisition of light of 
user for laying pipelino from Well No. 36 to CTF to NK-53 in 
Gujarat State, District — Ahmedabad, Taluka -Viramgam, 
Villago— Balsasan. 




Read 



For 


Survey 

No. 

Hec- 

tare 

Area 

Are Ccnti- 

arc 

Survey 

No. 

Hec- 

tare 

Are 

Area 

Centiarc 

250/1 

0 

03 12 

250 

0 

03 

12 


(No. 1 20 16/1 2/74- L&L] 
4f fofat, 8 ftnmp, 1977 

qtTa an° 2 981, — 49' f£ffaq7T tftt: ifr* 'TTSTW'f (<jfq 
% 944)4 % 4f«W W wfa) 4fbf447T, 1962 ( 1962 44 

so ) vf srm 3 vf 49 wki ( i) ft tpfhr rmyr *hah ft f$t- 
fa44 sftr runrd (f^tfaqR fbwr) iff wfm^ni 

Wo wo 9° 5667 ftrfpT 28-1 1-75 J1TT »tT «hK 4 34 

ttfir'j-TAi % #4*4 ii ffffiw ft 49914 ft trfa'- 

95TC 8tf 4TJ9 '11541 ^f fqsfa ft STEft^TtT ft fan srfrpT W 
499T wrenr 4tfa9 ^ fort nt i 

94: 41T4 RTf^rff 4 T14, 4faf494 iff (JT7T 6 8?1 
wra ( i ) ft Rtrrr Jtw *) ffatt f iff 1 1 


4)7 rtrif, 44 : fr 4 T )4 tttttrt 4 444 ffatE 94 fw' 4TT4 

ft 974FJ *9 4ftTf44T 4 7fa>4 WJ^ft if Ft faffed 'glwf if 
49414 44 nftmtrr xrfrpr 4:74 44 ffffpjWT felt f I 

44) 44: 9T4 4fhf449 <ftf 4FT 6 44 399TTT ( 1 ) 3T7T 
tfrfrr w wfar fcTf gn f^ifar 44444 4445434 «frf 44 treff 
£ fft *9 4fS7[44T % 4434 491^) if 944 '*jf44f if 

99414 44 trfawr 4H4MI84 Ft HI 4 ft Jpqfrpr ft fair 441^5174 
trffrr ff>4T oim $ i 

4lV, wif t?4 imr 94 " 34 H lTi ( 4 ) 3474 spin sifjppff 44 
5T4T4 ■P74 (jU %rfl4 4744 f4)fyr fff If fit 1344 'ijftpff if tJ44f4 
44 wf'4447 ftrjff4 47447 if frftpr 514 % 4444 %RT irffT 94^- 
FPT ffn W4't4 if mff qrtnff it 444 *t4 if, $4 41441 ft JTWWt 
8ff T 1 ) 4T7fw W f4%4 AI J II I 

wjgMf 


444141; T4 4744 75 4 414444 14)0 iffo 

94544444 

4N4 t WET f314T : ft444m 

T7*r 0 3 

?TFRTT 

44T H?t 

. 44w- 

apTflFT 

4T4 rpf 4147 


’ fft 

thsfV- 

fft 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

jfiqiulx 3 5 74T 

0 


107 

3 5 8tf 

0 

12 

84 

359W 

0 

1 

07 

3 6041 

0 

6 

69 

33041 

0 

4 

01 

3 29tff 

0 

6 

56 

4151* 

0 

5 

08 

418T 

0 

12 

31 

4I324T 

0 

13 

3 8 

46141 

0 

0 

94 

46441 

0 

8 

03 

6 0 041 

0 

4 

28 


[40 12020/5/75-4140 miT 17140] 

4fo Iffo 4Tf'4f494, 444 4^4 

New Delhi .the 8th September, 1977 

S.O. 2981.— Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (De- 
partment of Petroleum) S.O. No, 5667 dated 28-11-1975 under 
Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of Ihc Petroleum and Minerals 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in l^nd) Act, 1962 
(50 of 1962), the Central Government declared its intention 
to acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire Ihc Right of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended Iq this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the power conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act. the Central 
Government hereby declaics that the right of user in ihe 
said lands specified in (he schedule appended to this noti- 
fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelines' 



3437 


TOFT TF TOTOTT ' faT^F! 24, I 977/3rTfarT 2 , 1899 


^to]! — istr 3 ( i i ) ] 


And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
section (4) of that section, the Central Government dircets 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of vest- 
ing in the Central Government test on this date of the pub- 
lication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


SCHEDULE 


TK trffrtjvprr TTT FM wVr TOffTOH TwTFT TOwidfi ( RWT 
Itotopt) «f TV 2.1/2 5 tosPt, 1977 tfT RfFFjTTT fr« wYo 14015 
j/ 77 -nJTo effe ft a atr laftrr.m’t vftT t 1 

(53 4f° 14015/3/7 7-ifTO oTfoTrf 0 ) (TfoUTOaUTO )] 

;Yto ttt fntr, tpf toRtt 

MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE 


Pipeline from RDS Well No. 75 to RDS GGS No. 


State : Assam 


Village 


Jolagaon 


Dist. : Sibsagar Taluk : Mcteka 


Bongaon. 

Survoy No. 

Hec- 

Are 

Centi- 


tare 


are 

. 357 Kha 

0 

0 

107 

358 Kha 

0 

12 

84 

359 Kha 

0 

1 

07 

360 Kha 

0 

6 

69 

330 Kha 

0 

4 

01 

328 Kha 

0 

6 

56 

415 Kha 

0 

5 

08 

418 Ka 

0 

12 

31 

462 Kha 

0 

13 

38 

461 Kha 

0 

0 

94 

464 Kha 

0 

8 

03 

600 Kha 

0 

4 

28 

[No. 12020/5/75-L&L] 


T. P. SUBRAHMANYAN, Under Secy- 


ftmiR aftr wp»tp>t 

(tmw Pdift) 

T^ Pa evil, 5 frpfWK, 1977 

R 5 l° atT 0 2 982 : — TOT. TOFTTITO TfiPT 7fFFT nfcrfafTO, 19 47 
( 1947 TOT 48) TOY RFT 10 iff TOT-TOFT (2) % TpPFTO *f 

toftPt tRpt mIYtot t 7 frorw:, i 9 1 a tY tof Stop if 

qTfrtT PTO 5FFTTT TFT tf^ TOtPlT faiTT $ far RFR YTr frYTOTO, 

5 i 7 T tot tttfto tRpt if (tot i totoft, i 96 i if 2.1 
XPHJ1F, 19 71 TO elrin T?1T fTOfT Tpff fft ) 5T4FT faTOF TOTT 
jprtw TOT TOFT FftlfTOU ip trafTOTf % fTOf T^TO TOFTTT SfFT 

to^tt ffPff ; i 

*fF ipT: TOTT RftfPm TOY TOFT 1 5 if TOTTOFT ( 1 ) IFT 
tptnYfaTr wr sfpttt if TOrFfYro tYtto 'ffaror if 27 tottTOY, 1977 
if srftJ^TOTf TfaTOT 11-1-1976 TOT^ TRo tY° % toft tottofY 

PCTTOTTO if STTOTfalT TOT fTTOT TOUT 

STT: TOTT TOTOT TTfafTOTOT if TOFT 1 5 if TOT-TOFF ( 2 ) % 
jfaTOFT if TOFT 0 WR Tiff WfuTdad if TO -pf 'U if TOTTTFTF 
mif toYt to'tYtot tftY Y TTfar toY ih tPftt % tfttoto tttof 
TOTf, 5frfRf t 

a^ta wfirfrorr fit fjit i totto 2 if ihf a fiat tott to*tott 
^?tfd TO TOTOPT JTfafcr 28 TO 4 TT (VnPlPsm Mfafai ris\ 
TOnrfY, TOTOfT . — 

"29 fflnR ifTO faTOaro, Yft, tot tpr tRpt if TOaTOtT 

PfTOJTf’ 1 TOT 1 FIR, 196 1 

xrV 2 3 WTOPF, 19 71 

tto (tYto tf^Yto fam- 

TOF) if ftTf if 51 TOT 

fw )prr sf 1 


(Department of Health) 

New Delhi, the 5th September, 1977 

S.O. 2982. — Whereas the Indian Nursing Council has, by 
a resolution passed at a meeting held on the 7th September, 

1976, in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 10 of (he 
Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 (48 of 1947) declared 
that the Certificate in Public Health Nursing granted by the 
Director of Health Services, Kerala (when granted between 
the 1st August, 1961 and 23rd October, 1971) shall be 
recognised as higher qualification for the purposes of the 
said Act; 

And whereas the said resolution has been published in 
the Official Gazette with the notification of the Indian Nms- 
ing Council No. 11-1/76-1NC, dated the 27lh January, 

1977, as required by sub-section (1) of section 15 of the 
said Act; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (2) of sec- 
tion 15 of the said Act. the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the Schedule to 
the said Act so as to bring it into accord with the said 
declaration, namely 

In the Schedule to the said Act, in Part II, under the 
heading “Recognised Higher Qualifications”, after entry 28, 
the following entry shall be inserted, namely : — 

" 29. Director of Health Certificate in Public Healh Nur- 
Services, Kerala, sing (when granted between the 
Trivandrum”. 1st August, 1961 and 23rd 
October, 1971) (both date 
included)/ 

This supercedes the Ministry of Health and Family 
Planning (Department of Health) notification No V. 14015/ 
3/77-MPT dated 23/25 April, 1977. 

[No. V. 14015/3/77-MPT(PMS)] 

ffrr arft jpirwpT 

(rtr frorm frortn) 

ftFff, 8 faPron; 77 

2 98 3. — ffiTOTf TT fTOTfirpTOT 5TF*'!, fYrtf ^rjfflT 

totor, srftr ttto (tWfrom fYt *pft) irfalTTOT, 1937 (1937 
TT 1 ) 3pY TFT 3 sTFT TOtR FPtdqf ITT TOfPT JTr spriTf 

4ft TOTTTTT arrrff 3TOT srFT tT FTSfppfF', TOT TOfY RfiTTOTY 
5 tY TOmff % Pi". ifT'iPih Pt'di Too 1 from tope tft 

TFfffTOT ypfr TferTTO f), fYt TfTTT >ff T#f S fT TOFT TPR TT 
TOT FftPfTOTT V TOTOFF F TFTiTTOT Tt TlfpT if iffh TI 7 T 
5lV ftT TTY FTftf Hfilf'-T % TOfflT fTTO T pTOP TT^TT I 
TOFT 5 TTTOT 5 FT TOTOF ftnff RpFT T frRrfTR TOTfTT 5 fT ^ aff 
FTWT TO TOtrfT 9 1 'cl jTfu TOT TT TttYt ffTTOF BTT y I fTTOT IsiaT 
TOhTO I 


fTOFft VT STTTOT 

1 . TffSTR aTTT fYt tTOT[ FPTT : — ( 1 ) TOT fTTOTt TT fffFFT 
apr TPTT FR (wtTFar rtffv R^ItoT) fTOPT, 1977 Si 

( 2 ) 9 'TFT a TOM [far FTT TFF 57f TTT fPf I 

2, TfFTPntr — TOT fTOPfl T : 

(i) '?dV frwr totottof:' ft toft toftf tt ffr Rmtot 
totottof TOpffTT S;; 


80 GI/77— 5 



THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASV1NA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)J 


(ii) topprV' i w Pwt i iwi witor iNm 2 i 

3 mt wbran ;— ww wm to Tirttoi tkpt r mi % 
fair % ifr stfmm w rnr nr wiJjto' l> % i E tow iw 
£ i 

4, jqrrfr wfwwi-fl^p- ■ ■( l) '-OR W 17 f W >A<>U fffflari 
torr?( m toftor tow toni ^ftEt to tit w-rram jnr wiwtoi 
jqTjfi* fafttre toir wti ton "eihT" ifi % in inn *r 
w r itow to mw wto "wnfii mm" into to in Tii |»> 

rfi ITT PR tow HI IrT flljj ll'pfl- 1 i fT : T 11 fm; 
i 

( 2 ) w 3 w to mr i ‘Eli if'irrri- -Guf m iTrr 
ITith to to wt ft, fmi wfam mim TV iwr, wto 
irw ‘ , ^^^1rT' , tor ifi tomi hthtr am w^iTtow '"MV 
toft 1 

5. i r i E i h T TV iftonw: — toto wfimi fn 7itow?r firtorto 
is ftrto nr wwjto 2 % w 2 1 11 i to if ft 1 

ft mi TV toPt ■ — ( 1) toto Hf-wwi-fa"^ wftT arrow 
ii, ftor fTm ninm irt wrirfci toto ft, mpr ft tow- 
ttw it WIT wn 1 

(2) trVti wtotom itoir mwi it tomtorfftri fafftfen 
TV wwi: tor ot srm ftttor TV irrftto Err ^ film 1 w 
iftr, wifi : — 

(it) to mi TV nton, to* To it iri w«nT 1; 

(*ar) wrcr torn; 

(l) tonr TT 171 tor m , 


(1) tor TW WT nri; 

(w) ire 1 

( :t) wfign ton, frfi town 111 nil 3 it 77 wpfm 
w ftorrw mi to wj, #r f-mi urim trt i^ivtoi tofi 
ft to 'tt hit ire to wir-Fh^ ton id- itoir, nw 
in 71 w into: hitt fiiif, 37 f-iiTf 1 wiir inn w 
Fiimi 11 mV tovrwi-faisf air until w hit TV ■mftoV 
it 'toft 1 Em nrFtor it mr ton 7 mu to 1 

7. ftfan TV Tgf=r : — hit wr it, impr tfR w«ts 
DnftoiT itoti toR tor (ns m ) ft lit sjf trir tont, Trm, 
iiT-imir i‘ if, fnto hut rpfi fiqni ifrrrrTTT nrer Hip'Vltor 
tttitt to hit Tr irptoto TV tort rt, to (ton nriu 1 htetti 
TV H^'di 1 1 p; htt n 1 to 1 1 , fjifti to mirrrerF T mm Tv 
VtoT nr to, ito ?rfi ton mrsmT ajir stiTvEtt tofi tr 
mtov i rm in ton utorr 1 

s. irfiTTn imm TV fwr m : — irimr toitom Tto 
to ftoi, 1.9.17 T tom 4 i totoftoa- tof T Htofton, 
irjijiV :i 7 fV irf itof n 'to, frfi tow mr jw T 
mreiuK m i, iff srm mri-m T irw ett^t sto tw tow 
tt^it 1 

wirnTt- 1 

am wtt tt ifuft arfirmn 

[torn 4 ( 1 ) ifarr] 

uw "ttitt’' T wi mi tt wirm hV "mtoti mre' 1 
stof % w "wrir |ht" »f4 1 


wm<t-2 

srir ant t> firtorit tt ^TV arfirmi wtr iIthtit 

[toiiiHVr .totorrj 

TfTPrrV Tt fitorptit 


firiti reari 


>5irV TrtorsTTTT 

m Twfrm ifi T'T i«r 

wwi 

wto% tor'itoi 

ifr 

wtorfto itiT fph WErrpiwaRT 


to m 

TT HR 

wtowr 

itt'T 


ifi (as) 

Tr m 


10 5 

Tr W|- 

wsr 

Tf HR 


ftofr- 

1 ) 


i’o ir 

71 

w 

i; wh- 


7T7, 

tortot- 


w«to 

itoiri 


ir 


fvrir- 

171, 


I 3 " HR 

wfm- 

irr 

ifton 


rrri 

totor- 


% WH- 

m 

itoirr 

wfar- 


WpJT- 

rm, 


IR " 


wEjt- 

m 


m 

wtoi- 


tot to 


m 




11 


ito- 








in^Tr 








Wfe-T- 








m 








3 1 


in 


J 1 


HifcJTW 


sto HD TT 
HIT WTT 


1 . 11 j . ii sriitoii HirtoT 


3 U 10 ITT I'l -. 7(1177 17 T; 

7 ft ttJ i tor irfT4 
(■TWIT 6 r IT) 1 T 5 jri%up 
-TrVTf^TT7 TTiliTTirir^n 
inr toi i-frto'T-n 
nriTirVrq-irtoirnrto 1 

ir TTTt if^Tlf T 7?i 



[ r 4TF7 IT — 3( ii ) 1 TTRT 24, l977/3!Tfw 2r 1S99 3439 


12 3 4 5 


OTfauTt STRTtt-’TW if) flTFt'X ITS 

[fspHT 8 5fau] 

(i) sttFu^t farr irf nxpTFtrr, fan*M“i stfa % ftt % 
a^rr ww xpf ffaf ny - m fa wr ifa *f ffar 
wf trprarffar wrfa faff i 

(ii) M i fafi faF *r*rr ?jitt T fatam % far fifa 

fattr tffa fat farmT wirf+M im tt'tjt-’tttt qr 
faffa fa ■STTEf I Tg WTt % fafaPFf 44 fifafa 

siffapir fa fa*rr i 

(iii) TfiJR far, ffafaFT Rtfa, far ffaf tffa MTETTTft fa 
ffafar ■rfa far xrfafasf wrfe fa fa vzfa'T 
T fafa if ffa wr '9'fafa *FT, rrfat if 9FFT ffatT 
arrfarr fa $fa f'-twr TTfiFtF jm ww w 
ji [ f l fs.4 unit i 

(iv) frfa fsrTJH WFfWI ' 1 JTTT faf?fT fafa R Srfafi FF F 
r ffatr *r«rr inrc w qrr fjjwt ot fF^rir snrf’rJiMT 
iff 'fan fan ffar wi-wt tt ffantr ffar far i 

(v) sfap mtrH iff faH nip 'TF 'P WPT XFTT ft FT 
anfarr i 

(vi) fafapr fax faff faff fafaitif tranr fa fa ft faffar 

irk fawr wip/t'i' sm writ ^ ir rnfaitr ffattTW 
qftmfa Sc ffa fa i 

[fa 1 l/75- r r°Wo] 

MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIG ATION 
(Department of Rurnl Development) 

New Delhi, the Kth September. 1477 

S.O. 2983. — The following draft of which the Ccntiul 
Government proposes to make, in exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce (Grading 
and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), is hereby published, us 
required by the said section for the information of all per- 
sons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration after 
the expiry of a period of three months and tifleen days fiom 
the date of publication of this notification in the Official 
Gazette. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before (he period 
so specified, will be considered by the Central Govern- 
ment. 

DRAFT RULES 

1. Short title and application. — (1) Those rules may be 
called Agar Agar (Grading and Marking) Rules, 1977. 

(2) They shall apply to Agar Agar produced in India. 

2. Definitions. — Tn these rules,— 

(i) "Agricultural Marketing Adviser" means the Agri- 


7 fi H 10 11 

trr v. 7 f TTtfarx, ttt- 
4H TT TP 9 Tff'T 
ffapp if UTT^r SfPT I 

tnr v it if T farm 
T-IFT 9PTT TP SrPT I 
WZ Tf fa falSiT fafa 
t, pfar it-fa fa 'fiTftpp 
fa fafa far favctrfatr 
in faqr i wt 
jff tiT n ttfcfar 

bmt (fa?[ u 

iciT ;rnr i 

cultural MarkeUng Advisei' to the Government ol 
India; 

(ii) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these 
rules. 

3. Gjade designation.- — The grade designation to indicate 
the quality of Agar Agar shall be ns set out in column 1 
of Schedule Tl. 

4. Grade designation maik, — (1) The grade designation 
murk for Agar Agar shall consist of a label specifying the 
Grade approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser and 
bearing the design consisting of an outline map of India with 
the word ‘Agmark’ and figure of rising sun with the woids 
‘Produce of India' and resembling the maik set out in 
Schedule- 1, 

(2) The grade designation mark in care of Agar Agar 
may also consist of a design incorporating the number of 
Certificate of Authorisation, the word “Agmark’ and the 
'Grade 1 approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

5 Definition of quality. — The quality indicated by grade 
designation shall be as set out in columns 2 to 11 of 
Schedule-11. 

6. Method of marking — (1) The grade designation mark 
shall be securely allixcd to or printed on each container in 
a manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Advi-ier . 

(2) In addition to the above, tire following pani-ulars 
shall also be clearly and indelibly marked on each container, 
namely : — 

(a) date of packing in code or plain letter.-.; 

(b) lot No. 

(c) name and address )f packer; 

(d) place of packing; 

(c) net weight. 

(3) An authorised packer muv after obtain np the pre- 
vious approval of the Agricul'ural Marketing Adviser, mark 
his private trade maik on a nontaincr, in a manner approved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser, provided lha r the 
private trade mark does not represent quality or grade of 
Agar Agar diffcicnt from that indicated by grade designa- 
tion mark affixed on the container in accordance with these 
rules. 

7. Method of packing.-- Agar Agar rli.rll be pad cd in 
only new, sound and clean plastic container and fib e woven 
liminated bags, tins, paper ca/foa v.ilh poly henr lyg in- 
side of type and size approved bv the AgrieiiEm ..I Market- 
ing Adviser. The container shall he well filled so ns to 
preclude contamination of contents and securely dived in a 
manner approved by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

8. Special conditions of Certificate of Authorisation — In 
addition to the conditions specified in ride 4 nf the General 
Grading and Marking Rules. 1937, the conditions .is set out 
in Schedule TIT shall also be observed by every holder of 
Certificate of Authorization to the satisfaction of the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser. 

SCHEDULE I 

Grade Designation Mark of Agar Agar 

[See rule 4(1)] 

MAP OF 1NDTA WITH WORD ‘AGMARK’ AND 

‘RISING’ SUN WITH WORDS ‘PRODUCE OF INDIA’. 



3440 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/AS VINA 2, 1899 






SCHEDULE-11 





Grade designation and 

definition of quality of Agar Agar 





[Sec rules 3 and 5] 






PARTICULARS OF QUALITY 





SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 


Grade 

Water 

Moisture Total 

Acid 

Insoluble Gelatin 

Starch Arsenic 

Lead General Characteristics 

designation 

absorp- 

percent ash per- 

insoluble 

matter 

and (as As) 

(as Pb) 


tion 

by wieght cent by 

ash per- 

percent 

Dextri- miligram, 

miligram, 



drying at weight 

cent by 

by weight 

nes lilogram 

kilogram 



105“ C. maximum 

weight 

maximum 

maximum 

ma ximum 



for five 

hours 

maximum 

maximum 




1 

2 

3 4 

5 

6 7 

8 9 

10 11 


General 

4 times of 

20 

6.5 

1 .0 

1 .0 absent absent 

3,0 

1 0 Agar Agar shall Ire dried 


its 






hydrophlic, colloidal 


weight 






polygalatosido extrac- 


ted from red algae of 
class Rhodopheal, 
such as Gclidiella 
species and Gracilaria 
species. It shall be 
commercially available 
in bundles consiting 
of thin membranous 
strips or in cut, flaked, 
granulated or powder 
form. Tt shall be 
white to pale yellow 
in colour. It shall be 
cither odourless or 
having a slight charac- 
teristic odour and a 
mucilaginous taste, 
Agar Agar shall be 
insoluble in cold water 
but soluble in boiling 
water. 


SCHEDULED U 

Special Conditions of Certificate of Authorisation 
[See Rule] 

(ij An authorised packer shall take all precautions to avoid 
any contamination of Agar Agar during processing, storage 
and packing. 

(ii) An authorised packer shall make such arrangement for 
testing of Agar Agar as may be prescribed from time to time 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. He shall also main- 
tain proper records of analysis of samples. 

(nil AH instructions regarding methods of sampling, analy- 
sis, sealing and marking of containers and maintenance of 
records etc,, which may be Issued from time to time by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser shall be strictly observed. 

(iv) A sample of Agar Agar drawn in a manner prescribed 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser from each lot shall be 
forwarded to such control laboratory ns may be directed from 
time to time. 

(v) Each container shall be filled with Agar Agar from the 
same lot only. 


(vi) An authorised packer shall provide all facilities as 
may be necessary to the Inspecting officer, duly authorised 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this behalf. 

[No. 13-4/75-AM] 

*T°WT° 3 984. — tTW, jrfa yp r (farffa^rr far 

sfftjfmni 193 7 (1937TT 1) fa m^r 3 ttctt 
wfarnff afar ju, 3 pt ^fa^oii far brnR 

197S ff far fafffPT TTm 'Tipft & I falT fa: OTT1 T 

*faffar awfspr fafrafa ffarfarfarr tt*t mfa wrffafa 
fa fapr imnfapT farm m ft- fapfa: OTtl SririfatT 

^fa fa farTSTT ^ 1 rfa Hu jjrm fa Ttfa t fa: '.jtt ttwt 

Tt: Sfa ttffajTTTT * vpJITW smTTFT fa TTfaer TmfftT ffar 
'fa' fa Wllfa % TVTI'^ (faF ffaTT 3rraTT I 

37TT faffafar imfrj fa Wlfa ft <ji ffafa % ^ TT*rr 
fa itm fa fa xofar tt jtfr ffafr *rfa^ tr tptt far 
tronr tt Pnr fafa 1 



[ms H — T it 3 (ii)] 

faqfa 3rt 31*3 

i. ITT fasa'l 33 ^rm g?T faiffarna far ffais^ (awtas) 
f3S3, J 9 7 7 $ I 

2. 3S fas faSTFFa faST, 1 n 7 S S,~ 

(i) foss 4 a, d'lfasa ( 2 ) a, — 

(nr) jjinr ( 1 ) far ( 9 ) if ‘fassfa far" urfai % qwin 
n ST fifas ifa si y It ti *3 373 fr I7 ri, l i 1 a 1 bps aa ra sal 373 
arts 1 ” wx rnj nata; 

(sr) ara f (in) a, ‘'qsj" ura? 3 aa ‘'ars" urai am ’^nf'TT 

faST mtST; 

( 2 ) faaa 1 1 % aWTS fsasrsfas fRTTTT aSTSrf'TS fan 

STSaT, afa^ : — 

"i4nr. affamfaw 3sr % aifa fa suit s, tsafa asfaTia 
sawmr % afafw % *s fa 331 afa»R?r tom, fas faaas 

S'-lliW', SF3 37337- ST TS ffafsn 3S% JFT STfasm afasip) 

stitt irm fasT irw 1 ” 

(.1) fiSTS 15 % aST3 T7 ffaafafas fTW 733 31331, 
Safa :-- 

“ 1 s srfiwi «.«! fa fafas as :- - 

1- SS *113 fa %33 nr fast fa if! 3?T 331 fa STTSat I 

2 . ts fssa'f % srtfrrjpfr % fas 33 ) fan at aafa aifara 
ra it w fan fa fans fatal, asfa:-- 

(nr) 33 aTTSlfts'l % Tffar 3ST 3T5 ST3-S3 3T3 far S3T 

fata srrfas afa ‘j 33 3 n ara; aifa, wit fasr £ a fa, ate 4 Hi4, 

cTSTfa j aNK+im, -m v.cfii *) fartSpT 17 ! SST farfaS fas '-IS fa fSTq 3ST 

sfasifa falat 1 

(<?) SfafST fat 3?) 33fs, 'ifaffTT, fa^S fffa 313 % Tiffa 33T 
SIT fa S3 f% faffaS far 33% afafal Tafa ip ans fa, fas 
ftWt SSTfaSP", 3TT3 37333 ffPT 333-333 33 STst fat 33 
33t n3=jfaffff 3T| 33t 343^ askant ffTTT 3^3 3133 fa3T 

313 I 

(3) ifaft 3fa3T3 fa^ %33 3Tfa3 33 3 SfaTfaH 333sft 
wV 333 rjfaafaa 3fa3fa %T 313 113 ' — 

( 3 ) srrfimT33 t 331)3 3 nfaia, 3333 3t73r, 331 3fai333 
333f 37 , 333 3lf33 3faafa 3, ftt faT33 3313337, 3TT3 
37333 3T %fat3 33333 sny 3J7T3T3' Tnfal^T fafa at 53f<FT 
3Tt 313 331 3*) v T33T t 3o 3rf3f3fa33 3133 % fat 3fa'3T7 

fa farin' 3{ft fam 3 Ii 

(t) 3tfa333 q- 1 ^ qq SfF3r, 37331 '331 ?Tfa!Jf 3 if faffaq 

tnfar 363T nrfafa? 77331 frfa fa^aa 3313333 , 3133 3 T 333 

3T %3far 33313 ST3T 33333: 3Tfaf3 fat) aifaq %f ^-f w . 

faff) 31) 3ffaTl 3133 331 I 

(<3) 3lftr31T3-3^' 33 HT7<f j ffa faqarq 331^3717, 3733 373717 

3f %7jffa 333713 J-Fr 373%3: qifafiq fatfl s3f33 33 fafa 

•ifaffa 1 ! 4f37f 33 a>J3i %3 3ft3 afifl 3TfaHT3 favg- qfa fajfj 

fan 33 faftwar sfa fair ithj w 33 33 fa sat arjaf % 
ms 3 fat as tf : 

(■e) ffa fasas 331^33, *333 3^337 iff %fat 337337 
jTTT fsfss 3 rf*, yr, ^ wxf aa fan fatr ssfas 333 s ssr sfasra 
far^ 37 l 7 ^ sssr ^ sr 3 ST S 31 S 1 S' sfa S 3 nsfqs JTS 


3441 


xt mx, ss 373 a fan fafas nsrfafr %i ifasisr % saws 3 
sfa Sin | 

3773 S3 Si faarnri 111 3 fa STfifaS W1 st fanfa^FiFn sq-jf 
3 3 a; 1 sfsilM fan! 531ST 3 Ttt 33 srfs^nT 337*, "3S 331 ^rfa 
faSSS 3 r 1 1^3,1 * Si *3 7133713 JIM tsT fa%31 fasT 3iln 3 of 

fas 3 ,31 37T, M nil srS^JlS t‘1-7 % STS 37 afTTSTSTSSl 

?sfs 'jff 3r73ri, sfa az zifs ss sfafaas ifas % wrtrrr at 

sma.fas 33 srtsi st sfas sfa 37 tafr'FS -333 4, taffas 

ISTl 3 37 ) i^H S1ST t 3 1 r i SRT3 7^33 7) 3i3T sfssrs r fjST 

star 1 

(s) ^fa ssa (ssfasa sk faais) sfErfass 1437 
% ssts s-irn an s'4t fasa’f (sfa S3's fwas s m i ?;3i i3, sps 

713333 3T3T, ssa-asa T7 STfl fan as qijsr — 333 , faifass, 
srafaai faaTfast asja 333 srfa t ssfas ttw. s^tuff) 33 
tits fan 1 irrnar \ 

(a) sit si srftmaJii!!, ?if3 fasas ssmaip-, stts 3T3ttt 
sr %afts 7 T 733 T ^tt ?s faffas srifais faifr 373 isfar 3 T 3 T 
tj, affaifjfa, ssFaffa si fTfafas fast st Tisisr Tfaj siftr- 
37R-33 31337 3if, 3Tfil337 33 if 37fss 33 TS 1 4 fas at fafas 
33 3 TfSST at aTnift 3f|3 37) 371 iffa aFuiS 3fa 3S SS33 
faST STTT?ir fa 72331 3lftT^T7JTS 3^, ufasfas SSRlfts 3T 
fasfas asf 3 373 faaT sin I 

( 33 ) sit tfr srfasir c-ss srsT, ?rfa [3333 33T^Pr7, 
tuts 3*333 %r fafars Taiafs t, wt spsp* % 333 s asf 
s> Tjfar asf ar naafa; fasivi ait srfaffa 33 saata 373 wst 
% 1 

(Z) *>!fa3 3133 3t fa%S ftfa 3 faf7?S Zifa 31 fat 
zfafas farf a#fas, 3 SS 3 ft a'fa7, 33 suits SI 333 sfatir 
S33T %S3 tsiT ¥fa fal'iH 33t^3rr, SITS 3T33T, ST 33% 
d mi arfa%s fatt 7*3 fail 3, sat sia tss sfa h r-n fan 4 1 ifar 

fast tfats 37333 ji3i asa-sas aa zy fsFasr fass fas 

STn; St3 3, SlfaslTSS % 3T73 JT3T fa 3 l'13 3fs331T if Tarr 
sinar mfa ss 3 ^ arfass i-as fafaa FS 3 ts its a 1 4 f a I is, 
fifs fasss 33 1 fa 13, SITS 33333 ST 3133 STfallS *Sfa3 31 
srfas 313 fan 7333 ; 

( 3 ) ifaffaa sss 311 fafas fafa it fafafs 3133 31 fan 

ssfas nfat WfaSTS [373 fafat, ST fatt T^'fani, TS? Sit 3t?[T, 

as auila sr ^as sfap - 33 stti fasi stst si asia, ^fa 
fs'i'sa asrfaTT, *333 37333 31 -37fa jrrr 33 fTffss 3rfa%s 
fafa ssfar jm, farrst fa Sfas fanss % far a sstfata 
a’a*f "33711 Safa 37 fan faai aaai % 3131T ST 33131 ^ ST 
srfas f3ST ST S37aT %, Sfa 3333 StITSTS fa STn ST 33% TT3 
fa falTSTS 3173 33 3333 fa fa mftlfaT tslT, ’fafl SfaiTTS 
fa 3 ?, 33 3St 7«a 3 3313 sfa 3,7 fa! t ST Srfa Tlfa fa 3 
afra 3773 til sarssi sfa fr; 

( 1 -) aiftmT-as sfaf,, fast sfasTs fsaii 3 fsffas wijiffa' 
33 ssTfati-fasfai ss f a arfa % fan sarst, fans a^sf 
33 qfafra faf7 sa STsfaf 33 fsftsrs fa fa % sss at sr sfa 
333 a t 31 fafa 33 37 tsas-ssts % faq fan at -Ssrp" spf 
31 3S7J a aaaa afal a^ ts ssPt st asis 31731 fa ts^rs 
'|7+|7 siTi, sas-aas sr fafas fas sin 1 


SITS 33 Trass : fwsr 2 4, 1 9 7 7/3TTft33 2, 18 9 9 



3442 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, I977/ASVINA 12, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 

( 4 ) inpjMl 1 wh mfen MfMff % jrh <r r , fMfaMr iiMt sk Mf mt vfr Mot, : — 

1 

[fill 3, 4, 8, 9 M 10 ^Earr] 

work a«n fa fan 53 * Mr wfaari nn fair* ptcto 


MtWfwTTI 7ft »PT 7l faifa 1WI 


rTmirt 1 wPmffar Mum wrfa s«t fMftTir 

33 44 Rf'TUET 


1 

2 

3 


4 5 

V. 



soft Mr 
esitMw 
soirwhiv 

5 Min 3 


§3ft ai!* 

7 7 rr trfM 

80 ft Mfl 
85IM 
90^-qfiwr 

5 srf^RTrT 

J Mr *rawrfft 6®=r tfr mar 3 Mm 

j & 3wr M 5 srfftm 11 it 

j ?fr it? n»rM Mtirur 

V mn*m o Mrrr 

n?ls(ft Ml 

Ml 'Ml 

74%*?Mr 

70fttrf*re 

5 Mm 1 

! Mm; 

Ml 

Mr 

soft fffm 

85 ftMw 

90 

5 RfTTFT 


Till 


70 ftifai 

75 ft M 

so ft Mi 

5 Mm J 


w. fltftm 


KW 

BO ft Ml 

8 5 ft Ml 

90 ft Mi 

5 Mm 

1 . M *mM *m it mar 

3 sIott ft mm M 

5 ifam 11 ?>, (ft is 
ij;urM wTwi mm- 
93 8 mT*tm Huff 

Mot 1 


Ml M 

74ftMrar 

5 M 

2 . "MM” ^ it Mr' 

Mt Mr S- 

MU Mr 

77irM 


stpt ^r<n ^><t 

Mt J 

Mr 

80 ft Mi 

8 5 ft M 

eoitM 


M 33 mr/wmrr ijfa 
33 % TW’ffl ft i 1 M 

iM«rw 10 Mm ft Mi 
it it 18 Mm ftrfafr farm 
Mm 1 M ’EM 33 ft mr/ 

TOT Kpfr 33 % ifwPRI 
irMm 25 rft, 

m ?ft irfbr<r«r Tr Mi 
ip 'iran: it, imfaM, 
cti 33 m Ejit gf 33 

mfa 

7M 

70 ft Ml 

75 ft Mi 

so ft Mi 

5 ?fw 

fttfa* fur Mm 1 


3443 


[■fl-pT TI — wn: s(ii)] arm ar nw : F.hr' w, iy77/ftrrMa 2 , i 9 

( 5 ) 2 aM "TJfftrT aftfMr % pror tc fcrTNf'a'T aft rrftftatff M moat, waf^ ■ — 

"aaMt 2 

[fwr 2, A, ft, aft 1 n afan] 
mMa 7.a a ■Sufr Mptr ttt falft awr) 

jsiufr aftrttR ?£r tt ftr Fast asia 


aaftiRm a af*raF*r3 aftremr waft sr ftRfmri 

3-.^ <R ftMo 


1 

O 

3 


4 5 

t+ifarT 

>T 5 ? 

60 It WfM 

ft 5 FT alftfi 

yoirwfM 

5 stPpfr ") 

1 

1. aft waft sr- qft arar 

I 3 aftmt ft aFstr aar 5 

aftmr aa g> nV sft naar# 

jpfqa part 

aftt mift 

7 7 Ir aFtw 
ho ir stFto 

8 5 FT ffFOT 

5 aftupr , 

mafapa aanwa a tatfiR 
Fptt ar'Tm 1 

»trM '£Wit Mt 

tMF aim ~] 

74 ft aftnr 
77*rafM 
BoifafM 

5 aftmt J 


arfa# MV 

MV J 

ssffafM 

90 ir wFsre 

5 aftfR 


>rftft ftft 

ftft 

70tlrf£W 

75 iUrfav 

5 srf'ruR 

| 2. ‘‘■ffta 3R” arr hFwtr 

] ^ pt« a a.M- aa ‘It 


ftrjJnrfy^, j faR3R|”l 


e. 3 aft 3*r4 wf-R aft-fear % r im r'', ftRFaFsR a^ar aft aftfett T(j> irrftfr, atfi . — 

3 

[fwr 3, ■:, a, 9 aft 1 0 JFan] 

aMft 3R (*RT *gFtR) % Mt aftrSTR W ftfft Pitt 


islnff afatIR 


riF *r ft 


farar'T "T'.T'T 

sra>ivn , 'Tr if aftrftR 3R afawa *RRft sr fftrfrRr 

trraffeR 


1 

2 

3 


1 

5 

(a) afwa mftftr ibri 

flrararFmT mils 

TOT TO 3 RTT ft 3 R 

aia 

Jr fw 34 

7 5 *r wfarar 
so^afM 

8 5 ItwFsR 

9 0 4 aFoa 

5 afasit ~] 



mftra ?iftl mift 
^mafiitT ><M Mr 
aaRaftra MV 

rrftft rrM "] 
'ftft M > 
'Mr J 

72 ^tFwFaar 1 

7 5 a 5 Tf?W 

8 0 a atfPT 
h 5 Jr wfma 

90 a srfst'a J 

^ 5 afatra 

1 

y 

aft aamft tr tft arai 3 aMra 
a irfar aar 5 afmnrv w ?r 
at a amM sww 

aarcafira ftfft 

Tata 

h 5 a irfstr 

7 0 Ir trfsi'P 

75 a wFaa; 

so ir afro 

5 tfroi _ 


If a'ttftRT ftar orraat 1” 



3444 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA. 2, 1899 


(»j) sfan •r^r rmra $4 


cn A R4)1 

*TT>5 

I R g % afun 

fnfr *m 

1 

7 o 4 «rfa^7 

£nfr Efitifrr tfr^fr 

ErrEr frTr 

f 7 5 4 afan 

2 nfr , Mt 

4toft J 

son nfan 

san fjfFr 

Tiflg 

s 5 n wf*pp 



ro n^rfm 



R 5 n Wf4n 



70 n 4lfOT 



75 n TrftTn 


J 

1 


g nEroA 


5 rrEiapT 


[Part II— Sec. 3 (ii); 


5 


( 7 ) 5 JrfaEznf % rt ErRErErr sftr rrfafa^r wr impft mfn : — 

• 5 

[EWT 3, 4, 8, 9 «frt 1 0 tfaw] 

marfar wt |f 3^r nt >Wt wfiTOrg w Em4 span 



7# 4T Er 

h 4 Wvihi 4 atnaftif 

^rftjT^^nr ^Frfr 


fd'-'ifumi 



^nraEram 






i 

o 

3 


4 



5 

’ETtsV ff 

aE? 

so4wfan " 
85 n wfan 

9 o n afan 


5 Rfamr 

1 




nw gf s^n 

n^T ' 

77 4nftjn j 

sonwfan 

> 

s rEtwci 


4fc 

wafa ssq- irrcrr 



85 4 wfan 



3 

srEranr n trfwn 44 r 



y o n wftm 




5 

rrEranr 4n ft 4> 44 

ntfft gf nSWE ’fr^fr 

sn^n ninr 

> 7 4 R nftrc 


safaarn 

| 

rrilUTE >54tnanr ITRmTO 

1 

7 7 4 afan 

ao n ^rfrm 
ss 4 wfan 




a 

■JT4Er4 fnrr ^ranr” i 

4t€t gt c rr«fr 

J 

9 o n wfan 






nw gf Tntg 

Tlffa 

7 o it wfan 
754 wfun 


5 af4apr 





so Jr srfan 


(a) hh^-h! o 3, — 

(n) a nV TRff ^nrfs^r srPrte % wpt rt fER-faErr ^n. rrfaEi va* ’ll#, : — 

'“HifpmPTT 4 wf»r#m **3 pt nr aEror 

(3) 


y 5 afwir nfan” 

(i) tr fE’m % t?tft tt ETRf'rf'14 trrr sn'W, wEr :— 

“( l) wftrefan ng nr wi «ifl Tan if, htt m wt *rrT nYr afanfarr »tp w nnEfo" 1 ! wro 4 fnEErpi 4 naTfarn fW arrim i" 
**Wfo WTo 1349 — 1984” 



[ffPT II — wn 3 ( ii ) ] 


TT THIRST : fdtfJ-tK 2 4, 1 977/ STTftaff 2, 189 9 


3445 


( 9 ) 8 tftx dsffirr wWfertff % qwrff fatRfafiR wYr 5rfbffenrt srtyt TtTtfrfY, st»rfTj ■- - 

^ 9 
(fhmt 1 4 
wTTff trmr 


$fa r)t f*r*nt *twr?nr 
(unft»T f^Kf farrm) 
ft«w tfVr Prfrwvr fa3*iw't 
( M*Ct TTmtTiT Tt ) 

nf^-SHST 


33 trr wr 
rttef nff dwr 
nrfr ftrt Rtr trmrptf 

^fWf 4>t dwr 

$tT TITT 

rutt tttt (fromo) 
sftfttT tmfct '<TTT (f%0HTo) 
J[S SlV (faloTTTo) 

1. Tfirctfart: 

2 . stm vjyrr *nr 

3. ?tPt 

4. WnraT XPtt 

5 . ftfarfo (frim) 

>RJ 'Brrt, *tttt 

srfmtro tfr rnr^a ftsrfro 
<rd««7 * epjhrc iwmmi 
STriT . 

*psr ^a: 


qfjprr?r Rfrsro 

1 

I 

[_trfTrof*TO 3.R 

I 

1 

J 

Tfftm 'TpC’IW 

nro 

Iffo 
uro 
srfmira 
. stfaum 

fapottfo 3T1 ttfrrWfT 
footrto nr srfttura 
ftr°nTo nr n faniM 
fVoino nr nfnviH 
ffroirro nr mRivih 


S.O. 2984. — The following draft of certain rules to amend 
the Wool Grading and Marking Rules. 1975 which the 
Central Government proposes to make, in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), is hereby 
published, as required by the said section, for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby, an dnotice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consider- 
ation after the expiry of a period of forty-five days from the 
dale of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the expiry of 
the period so specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

1. These rules may be called the Wool Grading and Mark- 
ing (Amendment) Rules, 1977. 

2. In the Wool Grading and Marking Rules, 1975, — 

(1) in rule 4, in sub-rule (2). — 

(a) In clauses (i) and (ix), after the words “vegetable 
fibre", the words “or synthetic fibre or damaged 

80 GI 77—6 


ttrilST % ftCTTWr *fl£T ttfbu 
[fio crqto i3-l0/76t(°tnTo] 

C( o ifco XPtrtTff, '3'T 

wool, that Is moth infested, burnt wool, etc.” shall 
be inserted; 

(b) in clause (x), the word “other" shall be^inserted 
in between the words “from” and “animal”; 

(2) after rule 14, the following rule shall be inserted, 
namely : — 

■'14 A. in the case of lots of scoured wool a con- 
diiioning certificate shall be issued by the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
Tndia or an officer authorised by him in this behalf 
as an appendix to the certificate of Agmark 
Grading.” 

(3) for rule 15, the following rule shall be substituted, 

namely 

“15, Special conditions of authorisation : — 

1, Wool of one grade only shall be packed in one lot, 

2. The undermentioned conditions shall be the conditions 

of every Certificate of Authorisation issued for the 
purpose of these rules, namely 

(a) the premises of wool merchants and baling presses shall 
be clean and tidy and shall provide adequate space, facilities 



3446 


[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] x 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ; ,SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


for cleaning, sorting, baling, weighing, storage official inspec- 
tion and marking of wool; 

(b) all instructions regarding method of sampling, testing, 
marking and inspection of wool before and after the pressing 
and maintenance of records thereof, issued by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser to the Government of India from time to 
time, shall be strictly observed by all concerned; 

(c) grade designation marks shall only be applied to the 
articles mentioned in the Certificate of Authorisation and at 
the premises therein mentioned; 

(d) during the operation of the Certificate of Authorisation, 
the holder thereof shall, at all reasonable times, give access 
to the premises named therein to any person duly authorised 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India or by the Central Government and shall afford hint 
facilities for ascertaining that marking is being correctly per- 
formed. 

(e) the holder of the Certificate of Authorisation shall keep 
a record of the number of packages marked with each grade 
designation mark and shall permit any person duly authorised 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India or by the Central Government to examine the record; 

(f) the holder of the Certificate of Authorisation shall per- 
mit any duly authorised person by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India or by the Central Govern- 
ment to take samples of any graded produce or to open and 
inspect any package bearing a grade designation mark pro- 
vided that all samples shall be paid for; 

(g) any person authorised in this behalf by the Agricultural 
marketing Adviser to the Government of Tndia or by the 
Central Government may cancel or remove a grade designa- 
tion mark from any graded produce (should such produce be 
found by such person as not to comply with the definition of 
quality prescribed for that article ; 

Provided that whenever grade designation marks are removed 
from -graded produce belonging to distributors and not to 
authorised packers, the latter shall, when so directed by (he 
Agricultural marketing Adviser to the Government of India, 
make good to the former any loss sustained as a result of the 
removal of the grade designation mark, the loss being es- 
timated on the basis of the additional value that the properly 
graded produce would have obtained in the market over and 
above the current market value of the corresponding quantity 
of the ungraded product; 

(h) all the rules made under the Agricultural produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (and all Instructions re- 
garding methods of sampling analysis, submission of periodical 


returns, etc., which may be issued from time to time, by the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India) 

shall be observed; 

(i) any Certificate of Authorisation may be cancelled re- 
voked, modified or suspended by the Agricultural Marketing 
Adviser to the Government of India or by any other person 
authorised by the Central Government in that behalf, pro- 
vided that 14 days’ notice in writing shall be given to the 
Certificate holder at the address stated on the Certificate of 
Authorisation and an opportunity given him for showing cause 
why his Certificate of Authorisation shall not be cancelled, 
revoked, modified or suspended,; 

(i) any holder of a Certificate of Authorisation may, with 
(he written consent of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 
to the Government of India, use a replica of the Agmark 
design on his business papers and catalogues; 

(k) any stencil, rubber stamp, punch or other instrument 
or label required for making graded produce in the prescribed 
manner shall be obtained only from the Agricultural Market- 
ing Adviser to the Government of India, or a person autho- 
rised by him, on payment of such charges as the Central 
Government may. from time to time, fix in this behalf shall 
be kept in safe custody by the holdtft of the Certificate of 
Authorisation, and shall, so far as may be returned to the 
Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India 
or such authorised person when the Certificate of Authorisa- 
tion ceases to be valid; 

(l) the issue or use of grade designation mark labels or any 
stencil, rubber stamp, punch or other instrument required for 
marking graded produce in the prescibed manner may be 
withheld or withdrawn by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser 
to the Government of India or a person authorised by him 
in this behalf without any notice, for such period as he may 
consider expedient in the interest of better marketing, if he 
is satisfied or has reasons to believe that the authorised packer 
K not applying, or is not likely to apply, grade designation 
marks correctly. 

(m) the holder of a Certificate of Authorisation shall pay 
such charges as may be prescribed by the Central Govern- 
ment, from time to time, towards the expenses incurred in 
connection with measures for enforcing the quality control of 
scheduled articles marked with grade designation marks in- 
cluding testing of samples and inspection of such articles 
or with any publicity work carried out to promote the sale 
of any class of such articles”; 

(4) for Schedule I and the entries relating thereto, the 
following Schedule and entries shall be substituted namely 


SCHEDULE I 
[See rules 3, 4, 8, 9 and 10] 

Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian clipped and mixed wools 
Grade designation Colour of fibre SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 




Labouratory 

Maximum 




scoured yield 

Vegetable 

Remarks 



percent of 
wool 

matter 


I 

2 

3 

4 

5 ’ 

A. CLIPPED 

White 



... 

White 

Over RO 

5 percent 

If the vegetable matter content is 



Over 83 

Over 90 

over 3 percent and upto 5 per- 
cent it shall be indicated in the 

flflpn f rtf A n m m »,T. j * 




Tinged 

White 

Over 77 

Over 80 


i^crunvaie or Agmaric Cirading. 

Tinged 

White 

5 percent 


Over 85 

m 




Over 90 

tVTT T 


Pale Yellow 

Pale Yellow 

Over 74 

Over 77 

Over 80 

5 percent 



Yellow 

Yellow 

Over 85 

Over 90 



Coloured 

Coloured 

Over 70 

Over 75 

Over 80 

5 percent 





r [*nr I[ — 3(ii)] 


'4TOI VT 24, 1977/aTTforT 2, 1899 


3447 


1 

2 



B. MIXED 

White 

White 

Over 

SO 



Over 

85 



Over 

90 

Tinged white 

Tinged white') 

Over 

74 

Pale yellow 

Pale yellow' i 

Over 

77 

Yellow 

Yellow j 

Over 

80 

•hi 


Over 

85 



Over 

70 

Coloured 

Coloured 

Over 

70 



Over 

75 



Over 

80 


5 per cent 'I 

5 per cent 
5 per'cent l 


1. If the vegetable matter con- 
tent Is over 3 per cent and 
upto 5 per cent, it shall be 
indicated in the Certificate of 
Agmarh Grading, 

2, The term “Mixed” shall 
mean admixture of pulled 
wool and or carded wool with 
clipped wool. It shall be 
declared as mixed if the 
admixture is in excess of 
10 per cent. If the percen- 
tage of admixture of pulled 
and or carded (wool exceeds 
25 per cent, it shall be 
declared as pulled wool or 
carded | wool, as the case 
mayjbo, depending on the 
type of admixture”; 


t5) for SCHEDULE II and the entries arelating thereto, the following Schedule and entries shall be substituted, namely 

"SCHEDULE II 
[ See rules 3, 4, 8, 9, and 1 0] 

Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian Pulled Wool 


Grade designation 

Colour of fibre 

J 

2 

Pulled White 

White 

Pulled Tinged White 

Tinged White 

Pulled pale yellow 
Pulled yellow 

Pale yellow \ 
Yellow J 

Pulled coloured 

Coloured 


SPECIAL CHARACTERIS HCS 


Remarks 


Laboratory scoured yield per Maximum Vegetable matter 
cent of wool 




3 



4 

Over 

80 ' 

1 




Over 

85 


5 

per 

cent 

Over 

90 J 




Over 

77 1 





Over 

Over 

80 - 
85 

i 

h 

5 

per 

cent 

Over 

90 , 

1 




Over 

74 

| 




Over 

77 





Over 

80 


5 

per 

cent 

Over 

85 




Over 

90 

J 




Over 

70 3 




Ovcr 

75 1 

8 

5 

per 

cent 

Over 

80 J 

1 





1. If the vegetable matter con- 
tent is over 3 per cent and 
up to 5 per cent, it shall be 
indicated in the Certificate of 
Agmark Grading. 

2. “Pulled Wool” means-'other 
than limed pulled wool.”; 


(6) for SCHEDULE III and the entries relating thereto, the following schedule and entries shall be subsitutted, namely: — 

"SCHEDULE 111 
[.See rules 3, 4, 8, 9 and 10] 

Grade Designation and Special Characterlsatics of Indian Tannery Wool (Limed) 


Grad : designation 


Colour of (Ibre 


SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 

Maximum Vegetable 


Laboratory scoured yield 
per cent of wool 


Remarks 


matter 


1 


(a! Wool other than South Indian Tannery and Aden Type 
Limed white 

Limed Tinged white 


Limed Pale yellow 
Limed Yellow 

Limed coloured 



Over 

75 ' 

I 



While 

Over 

80 

l 




Over 

85 

r 

5 

per cent 


Over 

90 J 




Tinged White 

Over 

7247 





Over 

75 




Pale Yellow 

Over 

80 

y 

5 

per cent 

Yellow 

Over 

85 





Over 

90 




Coloured 

Over 

65 

, 




Over 

70 





Over 

75 

y 

5 

per cent 


Over 

80 , 





If the vegetable matter content 
is over 3 per cent and up to 5 
per cent, it shall be indicated 
in the certificate of Agmarh 
Grading”; 



3448 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)}* 


1 

2 


3 

4 

5 

(b) South Indian Tannery and Aden Type wools. 




Tannery White 

White 

Over 

60 7 





Over 

65 



Tannery Tinged white 

Tinged white 

Over 

70 i 

5 per cent 




Over 

75 V 



Tannery pale yellow 

Pale yellow 

Over 

80 



Tannery yellow 

Yellow 


J 



Tannery Coloured 

Coloured 

Over 

55 7 





Over 

60 





Over 

65 V 

5 per cent 




Over 

70 





Over 

75 J 




(7) for SCHEDULE V and the entries relat : ng thereto, the following Schedule and entries shall be substituted, namely: — 


SCHEDULE V 
[See rules 3, 4, 8, 9, and 10] 

Grade Designation and Special Characteristics of Indian Ginned Wool. 


SPECIAL CHARACTERISTICS 

Grade designation Colour of fibre 

Laboratory scoured of yield Maximum Vegetable Remarks 

per cent of wool matter 


1 

2 


3 

4 


5 

Ginned White 

White 

Over 80 7 


1 





Over 85 

y 

5 per cent 





Over 90 

\ 




Ginned white 

Tinged white 

Over 77 







Over 80 


5 per cent 





Over 85 

y 



If the vegetable matter content 



Over 90 J 

1 



Is over 3 per cent and up to 

Ginned Pale yellow 

Pale yellow 

Over 74 l 

i 


V 

5 per cent, it shall be indicated 



Over 77 

1 



in the Certificate of Agmark 

Ginned yellow 

Yellow 

Over 80 


5 per cent 


Grading”; 



Over 90 J 

1 


• 


Ginned coloured 

Coloured 

Over 70 7 

j 


1 




, Over 75 

[ 

5 per cent 





Over 80 J 


- 




(8) in SCHEDULE VI 


(a) for column 3 and the entry relating thereto, the following column and entry shall be substituted, namely : — 
"Laboratory Scoured** 

Yield percentage 

13 ) 


95% and over"; 

(b) for the existing foot note, the following foot note shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(1) The net weight and the conditioned weight of the lot in the case of lots of secoured wool shall also be indicated in the Certificate 
of Grading in Kg." 

(9) after SCHEDULE VIII and the entries relating thereto, the following Schedule and the entries shall be inserted, namely : 

"SCHEDULE IX 
[See rule 14A] 

Government of India 

MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL AND IRRIGATION 
(Department of Rural Development) 

Directorate of Marketing and Inspection 

(STAMP OF THE ISSUING OFFICE) 

CONDITIONING CERTIFICATE 
TEST IDENTIFICATION 

Wool type : Scoured wool 
Number of bales : 

Number of Agmark labels issued : 

Total weight : 

Gross (Kg.) : 

Declared tare (Kg.) : 

Nett (Kg) : 


*I.S. : 1349-1964”; 



{WT II — 3(ii )] 


8TXff •fiT TTXW : few 24, 1 9 7 7/3TTfiW^, 2 1899 


3449 


TEST RESULTS 


1. Coresampie weight : 

gms. 

2. Oven dry weight : 

mgs. 

3. Loss : 

gms. 

4. Moisture content : 

□ / 

/o 

5. Regain ; 

% 

Net weight, Oven dry : 

Kg. or . . % 

Official Regain of . . % 

Kg. or. . % 

Invoice weight as per test : 

Kg. or. , % 

Gain : 

Kg. or. , % 

Original net weight : 

Kg. or 100 °/ 


Date : 

Signature of the officer with stamp" 

[No. F. 13-10/7 6- AM] 

A.K. AGARWAL, Dy. Sec. 


aift nmi ftWIHH bWFFR 


r ^ _ r . - „ 

fft FTRTt, 7 HffnTT, 19 7 7 


nf fa*bt, 31 WIRT, 1977 


jtToSTTo 2 98 5. — 'RKrf WHTfcjfta' fetHTO3 gtfWPT 
Hf trfWPT , 1971 ( 1971 H 43) STXT 5 3ft THtTlTT (4) % 
rmr sfe?! tnrr 3 tft Herm ( 3) am nxn wfanbr >TtT snfH 
gq ROfi 'R n-TTSTTr erwrcr tht sw* ffHbtft nf 

rtrtfer cPF fe^fwta tb ntHTr FRixfajta fbffWRH srrltrfRW % 

WSTTTfew ffTFff % iPT b ffetjXff TTWt it : — 


1 . «ft%o -sfto TRJHffft, 
mrsr fb?9FF, rpre 

2 . «ftffffabt° Tfrftff, 
mid ffefttPF, 

3 . l sfl faibl 8 a son, 
fabW, <HH «ffa ffriK 
fa +t M 4 +fa l f 49 


13-2-79 ?nr aft 3»rfV fe 

PTH <TT 

7—12—79 ?W aft trot^o %TT 
9M 9X 

3-3—79 UT «ft TTH TH fe 

PTHTF 

[>To it rft 24012/3/7 7— ffff] 


Wosito 2986 . — tpi PTwwfaPnnT 1 9 5 3 (1953=6127) 
Tft HTTr 4 ffTTT SPTrT *1 fid 4 1 H TWH Tffb Jff, ferjffe- 873 PR 
t[ 3^51X1 qxx xftrcr fe sibur aft froTfro m-i/H T tfl 3ft 25 

THET 1977 (pbff) b ffTT Rffb RTTUff ffWT ?fiPH tJTTWHH 
^ PtiWH bltf # fatW ^ #' fbjH :grpff | | 

[tf° tf*ft 1 8 0 1 3 / 4/ 7 5-ff ift] 
Ttwfe iffeTT, THtTfapT 


New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2986. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
4 of the Air Corporations Act, 1953 (27 of 1953), the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints Shri K. G. Appnsamy, 
Managing Director, Air-India, as Director On the Board of 
Indian Airlines with effect from the 25th August, 1977 (FN) 
and until further orders. 


[No. AV. 18013/4/75-AC.) 
C. L. DHINGRA, Dy. Secy, 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi 31st August, 1977 

S.O. 2985.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub- 
Section (3) of Section 3 read with Sub-section (4) of Section 5 
of the International Airports Authority Act, 1971 (43 of 1971), 
the Central Government hereby appoints the following as 
part time Members of the International Airports Authority of 
India, with immidiate effect and upto the date shown against 
each 

1. Shri K. G. upto 13-2-79 Vice Shri K. K. Unni 
Appusamy, 

Managing Director, 

Air-India . 

2. Shri M. C. Sarin, upto 7-J2-79 Vice Shri A. H. Mehta 
Managing, Director, 

Indian Airlines. 

3. Shri Philomen upto 3-3-79 Vice Shri Badal Roy. 
Dos, Director, 

Ministry of 
Tourism and 
Civil Aviation. 

[No. AV-24012/3/77-AA] 


aftr WRrrff »miiw 

xf few, 1 fjHTTT, 1977 

2987.—' wfapEPT, 1952 Tit tJTTT 5(l) 
Tfa 4 8 fa iff (3faX) ffeETPTFft, 19 58 % fadR 9 FT tJTpm ( l) 
fc 8 H TffeT farpT 8 % ^T ffeH ( 3) % BTTT R5W TTfSTOTO "FT 
4414 <n Jff, “firing 8T*FTX b d'-rfia faiFR wux wti If I xinvf 
»rxb b srrr, HffeTbt iff t^? lbn«K, 1977 

b 31 OTJiR, 1977 TUT TFT TtS % R5TO IPTI^TR *FT 

fax b ffe^H faun it : — 

1 . aft fffo fffepdna 

2. 8TTT ^ 6 1 u H 

3. aft TTfaW 

4 . xfr tpio ultg'H 

5 . ‘diurfi btf ffn'o btmaft 

G- aft bto^tu TTPHTgT 73^ 

7- aft ffto %o XmfaFH 

8 aft efto 4 wtr 

9 . «ftnbt wro tjipif 

10 . afrinft 'ftojfto Ffpftwt 

1 1 . sffeRft Wr btbt 


3450 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1 977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii>^ 


1 2- p -YFmY ft * vterYY 

1 3. 'TPmt irwft Mjt; 

14. J sft ?ffo Tpro Wirf 

1 5 . «fPrar tnfr 

is. MYtnfY qfipft xt^tt 
17. TT° qq° pnnmirTft’ 
is. <sfrrft MYrr qpfdHMl 
19- fMTYY 9)° 

20. MpPRfY qqo tfRlTOft 

21. p -4lqtfl Tfl^uft 

22. tt° (fmfr) €r» qqo *ft*nnfY 

2 3. MYfffiY *wtt 

24 sfpTcft RKT #4T 

25 p >f| ,, 14r ’•flo l* 

2 6. *ffareft WOT omwo 

[lOo 00 1 1/ 3/7 6-qqjotfto] 

MINISTRY OF INF ORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st September, 1977 

S.O. 2987. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5(1) of the Cinematograph Acts 1952 and Sub-rule (3) of 
Rule 8 read with Sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government 
hereby reappoints the following persons after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors as Members of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect from 
1st September, 1977 upto 31st October, 1977 i — 

1. Shri T. Ncelukanthan. 

2. Smt, Soundra Kuilnsam. 

3. Shri Mohd. Yousuf Kokan. 

4. Shri M. Govindan. 

5. Smt, C. T„, Meenakshi Amma. 

6. Shri P, V. Chalapathcswara Rao. 

7. Shri P. K. Ramalingnm. 

8. Shri G. Varadappn, 

9. Smt. R. Suvarna. 

10. Smt. P. V. Bhagirathi, 

It, Smt. Borthe Lobo. 

12. Smt, Indira D. Kothari. 

13. Smt. Malati Chandur. 

14. Shri C. R. Sharma. 

15. Smt. Raji Rangachari. 

16. Smt. Padmini Achutha Menon. 

17. Dr. S. Vijayalakshmi, 

18. Smt. Leela Parthasarqthi, 

19. ‘Kunniri P. Shanta Bai. 

20. Smt. M. Leelavathi. 

21. Sml. Roliini Krishachandra. 

22. Dr. (Miss) C. M. Leelavathi. 

23. Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyuhi. 

24. Smt. Sara Sycd Yusuff. 

25 Smt. G. Dubey, 

26. Smt, Padma Sadajiandam. 

F. No. 11-3-76-] 


8N°WTo 2 988.— qfbPpM, 1952 8RT S(l) 

'rrfYra (for) Ppjqwfl 1958 ^ Ppm 9 % dsPnin ( 1 ) 
T RM RffelT Ppm 8 % ^ 39 -pPM ( 3) % TK1 BTTT wftwrrf 
w 5MM jq, %qfpT rpCFR % %qfk pEW fBT Tit if 
9 <. 1 *0(1 % tit q^trartT PrMfaftrr mPrptY 8?) qjq ( <tt mt , 

19 77 If 31 TT47p 1977 fW 3TO Tit % TOTTIT RqTgTK 

tttft Pm: Pppq fw It : — 

1. sffrpft 3 mt tnrhnfPi 

2. tjTMf 

3- qfq SMJT 

4. *Y)+itfi a m < i nn^'-n 

5. t?f s^TT 5Wj 

6 . Mlhd) PWT 

7. MY 4*1 a %o qmff 

8. MY RTLo STo 

o. »4Y R$rrTflr 

10. MYRlfl $RT WT 

1 1. MY tti *pm <ra 

1 2. MtwfT WMl Off; 

13. MYrrcff MPttMY irq 

[liTo tfo 1 1/3/7 6-q9rtft] 

S.O. 2988. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of Rule 
8 read with Sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
reappoints the following pe sons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Ccns irs, as Members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from 1st Sep- 
tember, 1977 to 31st October, 1977 : — 

1. Smt. Uma Sabunabis. 

2. Shri Sailcn Mookerji. 

3. Sml. Abu Sayeed Ayyub. 

4. Smt. Kajal Sen Gupta. 

5. Smt. Shaibya Dutt. 

6. Smt. Asha Purna Debi. 

7. Shri Sujit K. Chakrabarti 

8. Shri R. P. Gupta, 

9. Shri Anant Mabapatra. 

10. Sml. Usha Khan. 

11. Shri Ranen Ayan Dutta. 

12. Smt. Jayasree Sen. 

13. Smt. Minakshi Basil. 

[F. No. 11/3/76-FC1 

2989. — pfkPPM, 1652 R17T 5 ( 1 ) 

rYt Ttnfafl ludumTi 195 s % Ppm 9 % ( 1 ) 

% pm qftq Ppm s^^t-Ppm ( 3) rra jra srftpfnrf spfpr 

•'ft jq, *P f ffRr ron ^ tprfYq Psm qRr •fri & 'rtrmti' ttY 

^ qd^STTT PrRpfPstT Mpppft ftf ITU? PrTMV, 1 9 7 7 It 31 
1 977 : 3%i Tit tr TMf *frf PTM Pm 

»f PrqtT fro Y : — 

1. S4l TOM 

2. sfto ^to sffc TIIITM 

3. MY qqo q?rc Yq 

4. tfio (MYmfl) frsrq mjjttmst 

5. ’tfl qPTOqf 

o Tto (MPnft) qittvpsti 5fT° qM 
7. '-fEraY wrtFTi Ptw 



^STFT II — TR 3(ii)] 


3451 


aRR •n trw ; farin' 24 , 1977 /RTfviR 2 , 1 ass 


8 'SflTTcfr TOT %0 tint 

9- TT° ($PTTf) CpTo rffttf 

1 0. affarfl af'Taf tr*T 0 Tyrj' 1 * 

1 1. tftrcfr Rfapfcl tint 

12 . 'sftinft tf°ifo ^Putrr 

1 3. tftrcff ?rcifr 

14. aft qtro ifto urrj 

1 5. , sft dRo (jut-l 

16. aft mrreft uni 

17. *tff TPRimm fti 

is. ttatt xtR° quo iVit 

19. «ft Tfar to urri 

20. aft*pff Tnrftnft ttarff 

21. «frir?ft wfimr tpro im 

22 . <sffrrcff ([BWltl 

23 . atflRift *nwf) Mitt 

24. afrinfr putt #5 

25 . afrircft iiiniM 

2 6- «fr tfq Rmtf 

27 . kkRrt ftwtf juk 

[<U« to ll/3/76-n^o»fro] 
q°it° rkiwt, ^ *rftrr 

S.O. 2989. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5(1) of the Cinematograph Act 1952 and Sub-rule (3) of 
Rule 8 read wi h Sub-rule (1) of kule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, ihc Central Government hereby 
reappoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors, as members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from 1st Sep- 
tember, 1977 upto 31st October, 1 977 : — 

1. Shri Kamaleshwar. 

2. Prof. K, G. Aggarwal. 

3. Shri S. S. Rege. 

4. Prof. (Smt.) Vljaya Rajadhyakshna. 

5. Shri D. G. Nadkaml. 

6. Dr, (Smt.) Charusheeln B. Gupta. 

7. Smt. Kamala Tilak, 

8. Smt. Padma |K. Desai. 

9. Dr, (Miss) Labuben S. Soneji. 

10. Sml. Nalini S. Sukthankar. 

11. Smt. Mcniben Desai. 

12. Smt. T. V. Dehejia. 

13. Smt. Laxmi Wahl, 

14. Shri S. D. Shah. 

15. Shri S. E, Hassnain. 

16. Shri Talakshi Shah. 

17. Shri Rajnarain Singh. 

IK. Smt. R, S. Boga. 

19. Shri Rasik J. Shah. 

20. Smt. Mrinalini Choksl. 

21. Smt. Lalita N. Bapat. 

22. Smt. S. Gulrajartl. 

23. Smt. Malati Gllani. 

24. Smt, Asha Sheth. 

25. Smt, Manju Aggarwal. 

26. Shri Zoe Ansari, 

27. Smt. Nimmi Kumar. 

[F. No, 11/3/76-FC1 
A. V. NARAYANAN, Dy. Secy. 


tjfir sftr Ret iuim 

('Ttt^ftr ftrom) 

pf Mft, 31 PRRT, 1977 

9tto*rto 2990 — fewrpFT WtrfW ( SffNfT TIT r fMt ) pfaftlR, 
1954 iff HTTT 34 >0 TTtlRT ( 2) IRT tPTri urftRtff IT spfPt 
ITt jq TUT PRT tRTK, l ji% tffT JPrflT RdFPf 
flPTl) it 12 TRTft, 1976 it Rfa^PTT 5W 2( s)/©9 

Mi wui/qtToqtr-i i id iRk $q pwff, 

<j«t pitjw, r<ik % tfxtt wr it fairr if) 

17 STTOf, 1977 Rtsrfy^dl TTWT teifo'ffo 1077/ 1 845 7 1 ( 1 )/ 
*m>9 irt t^rp^ ttrt ftp fjpjiM iftpm pqjin affprc° 
£■« Hitt it TIT BriPT I?) PRT 23, 24 TIT 28 SRT IT 

tjM *rcftr tmr urffcmt, itr urtt %■ weftr ntm j fit PfRR? 
TPRT % iftlltfl PFJTT tliPt 3 t TfjTTPUJ TRn % TBIT friTT 
rjvuni 'jr iff hi fa '-if % kitr t fluff fWt tfr urfivr it tmm 

T^f ita i 

[to l ( l l ) jfkm #R/ 7 7-qTo qrf o-Jl] 

R o MI'Itff, tjirr i 'Pitt to u i 'rt 'i 

MINISTRY OF SUPPLY AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Rehabilitation) 

New Delhi, the 31st August, 1977 

S.O. 2990. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (2) of Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Com- 
pensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Supply and Rehabilitation (Department of Re- 
habilitation) No. 2(8)/69-Spl, CeR/SS II dated 12th January, 
1976, 1. J. Chakrabarty, Chief Settlement Commissioner hereby 
delegate to Shri R.T. Nadkarni, Settlement Commisoner for 
Maharashtra State appointed by he Government of Maha- 
rashtra under Revenue and Forests Department Notification 
No. EVP. 1077/184571 (i)/R, 9, dated the 17th August, 
1977, the powers conferred on me by or under Sections 23, 
24, and 28 of the said Act, subject to the condition that tho 
said Settlement Commissioner for the State of Maharashtra 
shall not exercise any such powers in relation to the com- 
pensation pool properties not situated in Maharashtra State. 

[No. l(ll)/Spl. Cell/77-SS.TIl 

J. CHAKRABARTY. Chief Settlement Commissioner 

df Mff, 7 fltWT, 1977 
2991 — Ml I ft (I Udfil (wl>m fRTT ) 

ttfiiftau, 1954 # trra 3 iff sitim (i) rrtr wr urfaraf it 

jpfpr TRI^n, %urfu 4KI.H IRT 'Jdlfa MFT ^ 

Hirarr IRflRt trpjtd, >sff PRO Iffo fa'4, *t RfPPP IRf- 
ITR RT^ItT ir IT R nW at Wf laaf % WREfT : 3HT iftrftw 
IRI RT wtFr 4«i)l«l RI^IR it flW RR TPlf Vf 
ft on ft 6 urt % fatf, twiM tntTR t, ifiMa wt^ir i 4 
ITRff t 1 

[to 1 ( 2o)/7 7/Ma ttT/qtroqiro-II] 

'fftPTTR RtfriTT, trqid fift'UR 

New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2991,— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub- 
Section (1) of Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Com- 
pensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954, the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints, with immediate effect, Shri M. P. 



3452 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 


[Part II— Sec. 3(iiV[ 


Misbra, Assistant Settlement Commissioner in the Settle- 
ment Wing of the Department of Rehabilitation as Settle- 
ment Commissioner for the purpose of performing in 
addition to his own duties as Assistant Settlement Com- 
missioner the functions assigned to a Settlement Com- 
missioner by or under the saia Act. 

[No. 1 (20)/Spl. Coli/77-SS.IT] 
D, N. ASIJA, .Tt. Director. 


NR R3ITHH 

Rf 7 fawn:, 1977 

UlToStTo 2992 — 0 V0 K "t, jnEETTA (Jt 3ffa TTfa 

4 fa%r RifaT ttrt nifircr *rr, sffarfar fam wfaffanr, 1947 
(1947 14) trra 2 srm 5 % wr (vi) 

% mogi: $ Rmrtri % xnjfncyr #, nett trttt % nr rsttnr 

iff wfUffaRI 4“ "pfo NT ° 908 ttrffar 7 Rfa) 1977 3TO far 

nmr 3 trfa lit tort wTufamT % SRfa»nf % fan 17 rM, 1977 

4 ©: RTR iff vrtmfa % fap 4 fa RRRpft fatT Rtffat faRT mn 

srr ; 

$Bffa RTTTT 1?1 7TR $ fa 3W TrcrBffa iff tfaf R: 

rtr Iff 1 'P - m fa fap rytct NFrr tjfaflpr 4 WRfai | ; 

wit:, mr, wWtfw fain ufaf-urn, 1947 (1047W 14) 
iff trra 2 % («) $ RR«<nr_(vi) ^ tcaji, arrr snwirfanff 

w rrTr toffa ttwrt Titr RVPrf iff tiw srfhffaiR % 

snfflpff fatf 17 fatw, 1977 4 XTPt W. RTF iff TPTTlfa 
% faq tffa gmfaff 4 ir faffat W 3 ff 1 1 

[ 4 ° RfRTo— 1101 7/3/7 7 -‘tft-I(R;)] 

ti,No %o Rrtpm, ifafr wRmff 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2992 . — Whereas the Central Government being satisfied 
that the public interest so required had declared by a noti- 
fication made in pursuance of the proviso to sub-clause (vi) 
of clause (n) of section (2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947) being the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.O. 968 dated the 
7th March, 1977 the Zinc Mining Industry to be a public 

utility service for the purpose of the said Act, for a period 

of six months from the 17th March, 1977, 

And whereas the Central Goverment is if the opinion that 
the public interest requires the extension of the said period 
by a further period for six months; 

Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the 
proviso to sub-clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Go- 
vernment hereby declares the said industry to be a public 

utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further 

period of six months from the 17th September, 1977. 

[No. S. 1107/3/77/DIA] 
L. K. NARAYANAN, Desk Officer. 

S.O. 2993, — in pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Industrial 
Tribunal, Jaipur in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the Divisional Personnel Officer. Nor- 
thern Railway, Bikaner and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 29th August, 
1977. 


CENTRAL INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, JAIPUR 
Case No. C.I.T. 3 of 1975. 

REFERENCE : 

Government of India Ministry of Labour Notification 
No, L-41012/7/7 4-LRIlI] D. 2(B) dated 16-4-75 — 
Published in Part IT Sec. 3 Sub-Scc. (ii) of the 
Gazette of India. 

Shri Bhanwar Lai son of Shrl Mohan Lai. . .Applicant. 

Vcisu; 

The Divisional Personnel Officer, Northern Railway. 
Bikaner ...Opposi'e Party 

APPEARANCES 

For the Workman/Union. — Shri Bharat Singh. 

For the Management. — Shri Satya Pal Bhati- 

Date of Award. — 10-8-77. 

AWARD 

By its notification cited above, the Government of Tndia 
has referred the following Induslrial Dispute to this Tribunal 
for adjudication : — 

‘‘Whether the Assistant Engineer, Northern Railway 
Bikaner, was competent and justified in terminating 
the services of Shri Bhanwar Lai son of Shri Mohan 
Lall, a casual labourer (Fitter) under the Inspector 
of works, Northern Railway, Bikaner, by giving the 
workman a one month’s notice of termination dated 
8-12-1977 If not, what relief the workman is en- 
titled to 7" 

The dispute is between the management of the Northern 
Railway Bikaner and its employee Shri Bhanwarlal herein- 
after to be referred as the workman. The case of the work- 
man espoused by the Railway Casual Labour Union, Bikaner, 
a duly registered trade union, through its General Secretary. 
It will be hereinafter referred to as the union. 

The case delineated by the union is that the workman Shri 
Bhanwarlal was appointed as a casual labourer (Fitter) in the 
Engineering Workshop by the Inspector of Works on 21-8-68, 
Since then he was working there. On 8-12-73, he was served 
with a notice dated 1-12-73 by the Assistant Engineer Bikaner 
in which he was informed that his services would stand 
terminated on the expiry of one month, The workman sub- 
mitted an application before the Divisional Personnel Officer 
raising objections therein against the said notice and pro- 
posed termination of his services. The Divisional Personnel 
Officer is the employer under the Central Industrial Rules. He 
reaped no success there. The workman then approached the 
union and the union raised an Industrial Dispute before the 
Divisional Personnel Officer. The dispute, however, remained 
unresolved. The union took the matter before the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner (Cen'ral) Ajmer for conciliation, but 
there also no conciliation could take place due to the non- 
cooperative attitude of the railway administration. The Con- 
ciliation Officer submiTed his failure report on 18-2-74 be- 
fore the Central Government, that resulted in the present 
reference. It was alleged that the noMce carrying the pro- 
posed termination of the workman’s services was bad, illegal, 
void and uninstified. Tt amounted to unfair labour practice. 
The reliefs claimed are : — 

(1) The notice dated 1-12-73 be adjudged illegal, unjus- 

tified and null and void and be cancelled, and 

(2) Compensation in the amount of Rs. 1500/- be paid 

to the workman by the railway administration. 

The claim was resisted by the railway administration. Tn 
its statement of defence the administration admitted that the 
workman was engaged for the first time on 21-8-68 as a 
Fitter in the casual labourer on dallv wages by the Inspector 
of Works. Later on. on 24-8-72. he was fixed In the pay 
scale of Rs. 110-1 R0. though again in the cadre of casual 
labourer. The workman was subiected to medical examina- 
tion, His case was covered by category BJ of the Indian 
Railway Establishment Manual for purpose of vision teRt. 
He was declared unfit for the job In this medical test. As 
such the Assistant Engineer issued a notice on 1-12-73 to the 




'Trt^T W ei-fTT : fiTT^r 2 4, 1 97 7/8triWT 2, 18 99 


3453 


workman statins therein that his services would stand termi- 
nated on the expiry of one month. The allegations of mala- 
Jkles oi victimization or unfair labour practice were categori- 
cally denied. Some objections relating to the competency and 
maintainability of the reference were also raised. 

In view of the allegations and counter allegations of the 
parries, the following questions arose for decision ; — 

(1) Whether the reference is premature, 

(2) Whether the Assistant Engineer was the proper autho- 

rity and was competent to issue notice of terminating 
the workman's services. 

(3) Whether the workman was medically nol fit for the 

post he was appointed, 

(4) Whether the workman should be allowed Rs, 1500 
as compensation, and 

(5) Relief to follow, 

1 shall lake up ihese questions at seriatim below : — 

Re 1 — Whether the reference is premature. 

It was contended on behalf of the employer that only a 
notice was served on the workman about the proposed termi- 
nation of services. The services were not terminated under 
it and the workman is still in continuous service since then. 
It was argued that in the circumstances it cannot he said 
that there was an industrial dispute. The reference is, there- 
fore, premature and deserved to be rejected. On Ihe other 
hand it was argued on behalf of the union that the notice 
in dispute was sufficient to create an apprehension in the 
mind of the workman that he was to lose the services on n 
particular date. As such hh industrial dispute existed or at 
any rate the Industrial Dispute was apprehended. I have 
taken the respective contentions into consideration. 

Section 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 herein- 
after to be referred as ihe Act says that a reference can be 
made by the appropriate Government when any Industrial 
Dispute exists or is apprehended. It is not at all necessary 
that the dispute in question must have matured into an in- 
dustrial dispute. It is sufficient that there is an apprehension 
of an industrial dispute. In the instant case in the impugned 
notice, it has been dearly mentioned that the workman’s ser- 
vices would s‘and terminated with effect from (he date of 
expiry of one month from the service of notice o n him. 
This notice according to the union is invalid and illegal. These 
facts are sufficient to hold that not only an industrial dispute 
was apprehended but it really existed. The reference, there- 
fore. cannot be said to be premature. In one way the work- 
man's services stood terminated from a particular date. He 
had. therefore, a good cause to approach the union and raise 
the dispute. 

The reference is no; premature. 

Re 2 — Whether the notice was issued by the proper autho- 
rity. 

It was contended by the union that the Assistant Engineer 
was no- the proper authority and was therefore not competed 
to issue the impugned notice to the workman. 

It was argued that the Divisional Personnel Officer is the 
employer for the purpose of the Act. The notice of the 
termination if at all was to be issued by the Northern Rail- 
way it could be issued only by its Divisional Personnel Officer 
and not by the Assistant Engineer, On behalf of the railway 
administration, it was argued that the appointment of the 
workman was made by the Inspector of Woiks. The Assis- 
ant Engineer is an authority superior to the Inspector of 
Works. The Assistant Engineer was. therefore, competent to 
Issue the impugned notice. The contention raised by the 
railway administration canno* be said to be without force. 

It is true that in the industrial dispute (Central Rules, 
1957), the Divisional Personnel Officer has been defined as 
rmplover in reapect of casual labourer employed in the railway 
establishment. But this is only for the purpose of the Act 
and to carry ou its scheme into affect. The Act has nothing 
o do with the authority empowered to remove or terminate 
he services of the workman. The powers of removal and ter- 
nination vests either in the appointing authority or the disci- 
plinary authority or the authority superior to them. In the 

80 G.I./77— 7. 


instant case appointment of the workman was made by the 
Inspector of Works. The Assistant Engineer was therefore, 
competent to issue the impugned notice. There was no work 
of authority in the Aisi.tant Engineer in issuing the aforesaid 
notice. 

Re 3 — -Whether the woiknnm was medically unfit for the 
post he was appointed? 

The case put forward by the railway administration is that 
the workman's services were to be terminated as he was not 
found medically fit. It was further contended that his case 
is governed by clause B1 in Annexurc V of the India Railway 
Establishment Manual. The union’s stand is that the work- 
man is covered by class Cl of the aforesaid annexure. He 
was declared madically fit for the post of Fitter of Clause 
Cl. I have taken the respective contentions into considera- 
tion. 

There is no dispute thal the workman Shri Bhanwarlal was 
appointed as Fitter in Casual Labourer in the Engineering 
Workshop Artisan Staff, The employees of this staff fell 
within clause Cl of the annexure for the purposes of vision 
te-t. There is again no dispute between the parties that the 
workman was declared medically fit as a Fitter employed in 
the Engineering Workshop Artiyan Staff. There was a cor- 
respondence in this respect between the Divisional Personnel 
Officer, (he Assistant Engineer and the Medical Department. 
There is a letter addressed by the Assistant Engineer to the 
Inspector of Works by which the latter was advised to get 
the workman medically examined in the class Cl for the 
post of Fitter. This letter is dated 2-1-1973. In pursuance 
to this letter the medical examination of the workman whs 
conducted on 8-1-73. In this examination he was 
declared fit for the post of Fitter Class 'CIV These letters 
have been submitted by the railway administration itself. For 
the reasons discussed above, il can be said without any hesita- 
tion that the workman was medically fit for the post of Fitter 
Class ‘C’ on which he was appointed. He was not appointed 
at' Fitter for class BI. Therefore the test laid down for Fitter 
Clause BT could not be applied to the workman. 

The workman was medically fit for the post he was appoint- 
ed. 

Re 4 — Whether the workman should be allowed Rs. 1500 
as compensation. 

I see no logic or reason in the workman’s demand for com- 
pensation. He has led no evidence to show how and on 
what grounds a sun of Rs. 1500 should be awarded to him 
as compensation. Suffice it to say that he is not entitled 
to recover any compensation from the railway administra- 
tion. 

Re 5 — Relief. 

For the foregoing reason^ I arrive at the following conclu- 
sions — 

(1) The impugned notice dated 1-12-73 is declared invalid, 
void, illegal and unjustified; 

(2) The workman's service cannot be terminated in pur- 
suance to the aforesaid impugned notice and 

(3) The workman is not entitled to recover a sum of 
Rs. 1500 as compensation from the Railway Administration. 

I make may award accordingly. 

The award is vubmilted to the Central Government for 
publication as required by law. 

S. S. BYAS, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-41012/7/74-T.R. TII/D. II( B)] 
HARBANS BAHADWR, Desk Officer 


S.O. 2994, — Tn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Centra) Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal No, 3, Dhanbad in the industrial 



3454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Pant II— Src. 3(E)] 


dispute between the employers In relation to the management 
of Diamond Phularitand Colliery ol Messrs Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited, Post Office Nawugarh. District Dhanbad and 
their workman, which was received by the Central Govern- 
ment on the 26th August, 1977. 

CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAT -CUM- 

I.ABOUR COUT NO. 3, DHANBAD 

Reference No. 19 of 1976 

PARTIES : — 

Employers in relation to the management of Diamond 
Phularitand Section of Barora Colliery of M/s. 
Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.. P.O. Nawngarh, Dist. 
Dhanbad. 

AND 

Their workman represented by Colliery Karmachari 
Sangh, Dhanbad. 

APPEARANCES 

For Employers™ -Shri B. Joshi, Advocate. 

For Workman — None. 

Dated. Dhanbad, the 19th August. 1977 
AWARD 

This is a reference u/s 10 (11(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, bv the Govt, of India. Ministry of Labour, under 
Order No, 1-20012/124 /75/DIII/A, dated 30-3-76. The 
dispute relates to Shri Yogcshwar Prasad, Register Keeper, 
who has been stopped form work by the management of 
Diamond Phularitand Section of Barora Colliery of M /s. 
B.C.C. Ltd., with effect from 1st February, 73. The schedule 
of reference is given below : — 

SCHEDUI E 

“Whether the action of the management of Diamond 
Phularitand Section of Barora Colliery of M/s. 
B.C.C. Limited. P.O. NawnRarh, Dist. Dhanbad in 
stopping from work of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad, 
Register Keeper with effect from 1st February, 73 
is justified? If not. to what relief is the workman 
entitled? 

2. In the written statement the management have taken a 
plea that M/s. B.C.C. Limited was not the employer /owner on 
1-2-73 in relation to Diamond Phularitand Colliery and no 
liability of any sort for action committed by the employer/ 
owner of that colliery prior to 1-5-73 can be attached to M/s. 
B.C.C. Limited. 

3. A written statement has also been filed on behalf of the 
workman but the above point taken by the management has 
not been assailed. 

4. Parties have not entered into evidence and only argu- 
ments have been heard. 

5. The Diamond Phularitand Colliery is a non-coking coal 
mine and the management was taken over on 31-1-73. Sub- 
seaucntJv, It was nationalised on 1-5-73. It means that on 
1-2-73 M/s. B.C.C. Limited was not owner of this colliery and 
consequently no liability for action by the previous owner can 
he fastened on it. In (his connection we may refer (o sec- 
tion 7 of the Coal Mines (Nationaliration) Act. 1973 which 
Is very specific and absolves the Central Govt, or the Govt, 
company from all prior liabilities which includes wages, 
bonus, royalty etc. That being so. the objection of the 
management prevails and the reference becomes incompetent. 

6 . In the result, it is not open to the Tribunal to look Into 
the que'tion of the stoppage of work of Shri Yogeshwar 
Prasad. Register Keeper with effect from 1-2-73 and he is 
entitled to no relief. 

This is my award. 

S. R. SINFTA, Presiding Officer. 

[No. L-20012/124/75-D ITT A} 


New Delhi, the 9th September, 1977 

S.O. 2995,— In pursuance of section 17 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal No. 3, Dhanbad, in the 
industrial dispute between the employers In relation to the 
management of Nayadanga Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines 
Authority Limited, Post Office Nirsaehatti, District Dhanbad 
and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 2nd September. 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL (NO. 3) AT DHANBAD 

Reference Nu, 4 of 1975 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of Nayadanga 
Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines Authority Limited, 
Post Office Nirsaehatti, District Dhanbad 

AND 

Their workmen. 

APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Ihe management : Shri T. P. Choudhury, 
Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen : Shri J. D. I.al, Advocate. 
STATE : Bihar. INDUSTRY : Coal. 

Dhanbad, the 26th August, 1977 

AWARD 

This is a reference under section 10(1 ) fd) of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, by the Government of I ndia, 
Ministry of Labour under order No. L-200 12/8 4/75 /Dill /A 
dated New Delhi the nil. The concerned workman Shri 
Mihir Kumar Mitra was appointed in the Nayadanga Colliery 
of M/s. Coal Mines Authority (which at present is Eastern 
Coalfields Ltd,), The schedule of reference is as follows ; 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Nayadanga 
Colliery of Messrs Coal Mines Authority Limited, 
Post Office Nirsaehatti, District Dhanbad in termi- 
nating the services of Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra, 
Compounder, with effect from 1 7-1-1975 Is justi- 
fied ? If not. to what relief is the concerned 
workman entitled 7”. 

2. It is the common case of the parties that the con- 
cerned workman was appointed a compounder temporarily 
for a period of 3 months from 4-2-1974 to 4-5-1974 and 
this period was extended from time to time and lastly it 
was extended unto 16-1-1975. Tt is also the common case 
of the parties that the concerned workman is an unqualified 
compounder ond even till the date of termination of his 
serveies he did not pass the qualifying test as required under 
the Pharnuicv Act (VIII of 1948). 

3. Case of Mihir Kumar Mitra is that the action of the 
management in terminating his services is illegal, mala fide 
and is violative of the terms of his appointment and the 
provisions of the certified standing orders. His contention 
is that as per terms of appointment and the provisions of 
the certified standing orders he ought to have been con- 
firmed after completion of six months probationery period 
satisfactorily. Having worked continuously for about a vear 
he became a member of the Coal Mines Provident Fund 
also. 

4. Tt is contended that no notice as required under the 
provisions of the certified standing orders applicable to the 
collierv was given to him and on the above grounds he is 
entitled to reinstatement with back wages. 

5. On behalf of the management It is said that throughout 
his appointment wms temporary on casual basis as a quali- 
fied compounder was not available and each time that iw 
was reappointed he was asked to qualify himself which he 
could not do. Ultimately, when a passed componder was 



3455 


[Am II — 3FS 3(ii)] tcvt 4tr zrnw 


mailable his services were terminated. It is said that being 
a casual, employee no notice was required and his appoint- 
ment caine to an end as soon as the extended dale expired. 

6. The other point that has been raised on behalf of 
the management is that no demand was made by the con- 
cerned workman oil the management after his services had 
been terminated. One Shri Kcdar Pandey addressed a letter 
lo the Assistant Labour Commissioner iC) Dhanbad, pur- 
porting to raise an industrial dispute between the manage- 
ment of Badjna Sub-Area and Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra re- 
presented by Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union, a copy of which 
wus endorsed by the Asstt. Labour Commissioner(C) to 
ihcm. This according to the management not a demand 
raising an industrial dispute with the management and ac- 
cordingly the reference is invalid. 

7. I here is a rejoinder on behalf of the workmen stating 
that a dispute had in fact been raised with the management 
prior to the mising of the dispute before the Asstt. Labour 
Commissioner. It is said that m any case the reference does 
noL sutler from any infirmity in view of the decision of 
the Patna High Court, ft is further said that having worked 
as compounder continuously for more than 240 days termi- 
nation of the workman’s service amounted to retrenchment 
jnd the provisions of S. 25F of the t.D. Act having not 
been complied with, the retrenchment is illegal and void 
ibinitio. 

8. There is a rejoinder on behalf of the management as 
well stating therein that Shri Mitra was given fresh appoint- 
ments from time to time for a period of 3 months to enable 
lim to qualify as a compounder. As he did not pass the 
qualifying lest, he could not have been confirmed, as con- 
lrmation in the job of this nature depends upon obtaining a 
reccssary requisite qualification. No notice was necessary 
is his services had to be terminated, firstly, because he could 
lot qualify as a compounder and secondly, because a quali- 
ied compounder became available. 

9. From the record it appears that a dispute had been 
aised before the Assistant Labour Commissioner and 1 find 
torn the failure report that case of the parties was precisely 
he same before him as it is here. This reference was made 
.vlten he submitted a failure report. 

10. On behalf of the workman ho has examined himself, 
slo witness has been examined on behalf of the management. 
Certain papeis were called for on behalf of the workman 
ind they have been produced and they are with respect to 
he appointment Of the concerned workman, appointment of 
Shri Nagendra Nath Tcwuri and termination of the services 
if Shri Mitra consequent upon Shri Tewari’s joining the 
ippointment. Extract of the bonus register, extract of form 
i register and extract of salary sheet concerning Shri 
vlitra have also been produced. 

11. Shri Mitra has stated his own case and says that he 
tontinued on his post till 16th January, 1975, when his 
erviees were terminated, but no notice was given to him 
tor wages in lieu of notice were paid to him. He says 
urther that he did not get any retrenchment compensation, 
Je has proved Ext. W-l, his representation to the Sub-Area 
Manager under his signature, in cross-examination he admits 
hat he was aware that a pharmacist certificate is required 
or being appointed as compounder in Bihar. He says 
urther that he was asked by the company to obtain certi- 
icate which he could not do and in his place Shri Nagendra 
4ath Tewari a passed compounder was appointed. 

12. Under Section 42(1) of the Pharmacy Act it is said 
hat on or after such date as the Sta’e Government may by 
otification in the Official Gazette appoint in this behalf no 
icrson other han a registered pharmacist shall compound, 
ircparc, mix or dispense any medicine on the prescription of 
i medical practitioner. Under sub-section (2) it is provided 
hat whoever contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) 
hall he punishable with imprisonment for a erm which mav 
edend to six months, or with fine not exceeding one thousand 
upees, or with both. 

13. The concerned workman has admitted that in he dis- 
'ensary he used to have first aid materials like tincher 
odins, fever and cough mixture, etc. Being a compounder 
mder S. 42(1) of the Pharmacy Act which 1 have just now 
xtrae'ed above it was absolutely necessary for him to obtain 

Pharmacist certificate and that having not been done, he 


. 24, 197 7/3nfff^T 2, 1899 


could not have been employed in that capacity and his very 
initial appointment was illegal. 

14. I, however, find hat he was employed on casual bus. 
as mentioned in his appointment letter for a period of 3 
months and in the meantime he was asked to qualify other- 
wise he would be replaced with a qualified hand at the end 
of that period. The management has explained the citcum- 
stancc in which his appointment was made and from the 
nvernments in the written statement it appears that he was 
reappointed for a particular period from time to time and 
the last appointment was upto 16-1-75 when a qualified hand 
v.as available and bis services were terminated. 

15. To me it appeurs that there is nothing illegal in the 
action of the management and he being a purely temporary 
hand having been appointed for a particular period his nppoin - 
ment automatically came to an end on the expiry of that 
period. He could not have been allowed to continue as he 
hud not qualified himself as a qualified compounder as pro- 
vided under Pharmacy Act. Question arises whether it was 
neoessuiy to comply with the provisions of S. 25F of the 
1.13. Act, 1947. 

16. A similar case came up before their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court (State Bank of India vs. N. Suodra Money) 
reported in 19 76 (32) FLR 197. Mr. Sundra Money was 
appointed as cashier, off and on, by the State Bank ot Inu, 
between July 4, 1970 and November, 18, 1972. The terms 
of appointment are the following : 

“(1) the appointmet is purely a temporary one for a 
period of 9 days but may be terminated earlier with- 
out assigning any reason therefor at the Bank’s dis- 
cretion ; 

(2) The employment, unless terminated earlier, will auto- 
matically cease at 'he expiry of the period, i.e. 
November, 18, 1972”. 

17. Then Lordships considered S. 25Ftb) and S, 2(00) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. With respect to the former the 
case of the Hospital Mazdoor Sabhn reported in (i960) 2 
SCR 866 was considered and they quoted the following ob- 
servation that ‘"I he Section provides that no workman shall 
be retrenched until the condition in question has been satisfied. 
It is diilicult to accede to the argument tha; when the section 
imposes in mendatory terms a condition precedent, non- 
compliance with the said condition would not render the im- 
pugned retrnechmeni invalid .... failure to comply with the 
said provision renders the impugned orders invalid and in- 
operative”. 

18. their Lordships also considered the import of .he ex- 
pression “for any reason whatsoever” uccuilng ip section 
2(00) and observed that the expression was very wide and al- 
most admitting of no exception. According to them ter- 
tnina ion of the services of a workman "for any reason what- 
soever" are the key words, Termination embraces not merely 
act of termination by the employer, but the fact of termination 
however produced. After considering the facts and law on 
I lie point iheir Lordships came to the conclusion that “in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this case, the respon- 
dent shall be put back where he left off, but his new salary 
will be what he would draw were , he to be appointed ill the 
same post today de novo. As for benefits, if any, (lowing 
from service he will be ranked below all permanent employees 
in that cadre and will be deemed to be a temporary hand 
upto now. He will not be allowed to claim any advantages 
in the matter of seniority or other priority inter se among 
tempoiary employees on Ibe ground that his retcoebment is 
being declared invalid by this court.” 

19. Facts of the case before me are similar. Appointment 
of the concerned workman was temporary fot a particular 
period and therefore on the expiry of that period his services 
were terminated without complying with the piovisions of 
S. 25F(b) of the I.D. Act. As per decision of the Supreme 
Court this termination will be invalid and inoperative as it 
being a retrenchmen) under S. 2(00) he was not paid retrench- 
ment compensation and no notice was given to him and no 
wages in lieu of notice were paid. Therefore, the concerned 
workman is entitled to reinstatement but not on the post 
from which he was retrenched because he is not a qualified 
compounder. He will of course be employed somevhne in 
the colliery on any o hei eauivelent post and will start getting 
the salary of that post as if his appointment is de novo. He 
will be ranked below all permanent employees in that cadre 



3456 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASV1NA 2, IR99 [Part II— Sec. 3(il)}^ 


Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry 7 Jf not, 
to what relief are the said workmen entitled ? 


ind will be deemed to be a temporary hand. As was direc 
ed by the Supreme Court he will not he allowed to claim 
my advantage in the matter of seniority or other priority inter 
se among temporary employees on the ground that his re- 
trenchment is being declared invalid by this court. 

20. A point has been taken on behalf of the management 
that as no demand was raised with the employer before the 
matter came to the Assistant Labour Commissioner who sub- 
mitted failure report, as per decision of the Supreme Court 
in the case of Sindhu Resettlement Corporation Ltd. vs. 
Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat and other reported in Voi. 7 SCLJ 
792 the reference is invalid. In this connection I may refer 
d Ext. W-l a representation submitted by the concerned 
workman to the Sub-Area Manager on 22-1-1975. The matter 
was taken upto the Assistant Labour Commissioner on 5-2-75. 

It means that a demand was made on the management prior 
to the representation to the Assistant l abour Commissioner. 
In such a circumstance it cannot be said that the case falls 
within the purview' of the Supreme Court decision referred to 
above. The reference is very much valid, 

21. Therefore, although as per terms of appointment action 
of the management of Nayadanga Colliery' in terminating the 
services of Shri Mihir Kumar Mitra, Compounder w.e.f. 
17-1-75 is justified, in view' of the decision referred to above, 
lie is entitled to the relief mentioned in the earlier paragraph. 

This is my award. 

S. R. SINHA, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-200 12/84/7 5-DIII-A] 

S.O. 2996. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Cenlral Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal No. 1. Dhanbad, in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management 
of Loyabad Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal Limited, 
Post Office BansjorH, District Dhanbad and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 
31st August, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL— NO. 1 AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(1) (cl) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Reference No. 38 of 1977 

(Ministry's Order No. L-200 12/ 1P5/74/D. III. A, Dt. 
19-6-1975) 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of Loyabad 
Colliery of Messrs Bharat Coking Coal Limited, 
Post Office Bansjora, Dist. Dhanbad; 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers — Shri S, S. Mukhcrjee, Advocate. 
For the Workmen. — None. 

INDUSTRY : Coal’ STATE ; Bihar 

Dhanbad, the 24th August, 1977 
AWARD 

The Central Government, in evercise of the powcis con- 
ferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act referred the following dispute lor 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
No. 2, Dhanbad by its Order No, l.-20012/165/74-L). III. A. 
dated the 19th June, 1975, namely— 

''Is the management of Loyabad Colliery, of Messrs 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Post Office Bunsjota, 
District Dhanbad, justified in nut placing the follow- 
ing workmen in the category specified against each 
name in accordance with the Report of the Central 


S.No. Name of the Workman 

Designation 

Category 

claimed 

1. Sri Basir Mia 

Electrician 

VI 

2. Sri Shanker Bhandari 

-do- 

VI 

3. Sri Sotayan Sarkar 

-do- 

VI 

4. Sri A.K. Bhattacharjec 

Elec. Helper 

V 

5. Sri Jovbahadur Pd. . 

Electrician 

VI 

6, Sri Biswanath Bancrjcc 

-do- 

VI 

7. Sri Sultan Ahmed 

-do- 

VI 

8. Sri Chitranjan Ghosh . 

-do- 

VI 

9. Sri Yakub Mia 

-do- 

VI 

10. Sri Jagarnath Ghosh 

-do- 

VI 

11. Sri Bimal Majumdar . 

-do- 

VI 

12. Sri Dayamoy Mukhorjec 

-do- 

VI 

13. Sri Kartic Bose . 

-do- 

VI 

14. Sri Baleswar Dusad 

-do- 

VI 

15. Sri Surai Kant Roy 

-do- 

VI 

16. Sri S.K. Sengupta 

-do- 

VI 

1 7. Sri Sudique Mia 

Efec. Helper 

V 

18. Sri Yusuf Ansari 

-do- 

V 

19. Sri Suresh Singh 

-do- 

IV 

20. Sri Anando Challerjec 

Electrician 

IV 

21. Sri Krishna Prasad 

-do- 

IV 

22. Sri Ahinalh Mandal 

-do- 

V 

23. Sri Baijnath Du bey 

-do- 

V 

24. Sri Kartic Prasad 

Mach. Filter 

VI 

25. Sri Bisu Mahalo 

-do- 

VI 

26. Sri Sail Mohamed 

-do- 

VI 

27. Sri Anwar Mia . 

-do- 

VI 

28. Sri Mohamad Mia 

-do- 

VI 

29. Sri Sabdul Mia 

-do- 

VI 

30. Sri Kishun Pasi . 

-do- 

VI 

31. Sri S. Narayan 

-do- 

VI 

32. Sri Mobarak Mia 

-do- 

VI 

33. Sri Abdul Rahim 

-do 

VI 

34. Sri Anurod Pandcy 

-do- 

VI 

35. Sri Anand Singh 

-do- 

VI 

36, Sri Sibapada Bancrjac . 

-do^ 

VI 

37. Sri Cianesh Bouri 

-do- 

VI 

38. Sri Akbar Mia 

-do- 

VI 

39. Sri Ismail Mia 

-do- 

VI 

40. Sri Jabbar Mia 

-do- 

VI 

41. Sri Mohamad Hanib . 

-do- 

VI 

42. Sri Ibrahim Mia 

-do- 

VI 

43. Sri Onab Mia 

-do- 

VI 

44. Sri Ahamad Mia. 

-du- 

V 

45. Sri Sabitali Mia . 

-do- 

V 

46. Sri Rampathi Yadav 

-do- 

V 

47. Sri Eazal Mia 

-do- 

VI 

48. Sri Adoward Kabhab . 

. -do- 

VI 

49. Sri Abdu! Rahuman . 

-do 

VI" 


2. The same was received by transfer from Tribunal No. 2 
m this Tribunal on March 22, 1977 vide Government of India, 
Ministry of Labour, Order No. S-l 1025(1 )/77-(i)-D. I V(B) 
dated 22-2-1977. 

3. The General Secretary, Colliery Engineering Workers 
Association, alleged in his written statement that the previous 
owner of the Loyabad Colliery, before nationalisation, and 
ihe present owners, namely, B.C.C.L.. after nationalisation, 
have given lower categories to the fortynine workmen al- 
though they are entitled to higher categories; that the cate 
gorisation deserved by them is specified against tbeir indivi 
dual names in the Schedule to the reference ; that the actioi 



■gTTTT IN TTxppg : 2 4, 1 977/3frf»^T 2, 1899 


3457 


[■STHT II — SFX 3 (ii )] 


of the previous owner, as also of the B.C.C.L., In giving a 
particular category to one and another category io another 
is based on arbitrary pick and choose and is not based on 
any reasonable or scientific foundation, and hence the Tri- 
bunal should interfere and give them the categories claimed 
by them, 

4. The B.C.C.L. has, on the other hand, pleaded that 
categorisation, like promotion, arc purely managerial func- 
tions and the exercise of powers regarding these functions 
should not be interfered with unless the exercise is proved 
to be malafide or vindictive or smacking of unfair labour 
practice, and that the categorisation was done by the pre- 
vious owner, and on its review, the B.C.C.L. has promoted 
some to higher categories where their cases were deserving 
but has not done so in the case of a large number of them 
because they are not entitled to promotion to a higher cate- 
gory on the basis of their work, efficiency, character, per- 
formance etc. 

5. The General Secretary, Colliery Engineering Workers 
Association, did not put in appearance on May 21, 1977 but 
nevertheless he was informed that the case would be taken 
up next on June 18, 1977. He did not put in appearance 
even on that date and another registered notice was sent 
to him that the case would thereafter be taken up on August 
16, 1977 for evidence and arguments ; but he chose to re- 
main absent even on the adjourned date. The result is that 
the adjudication has proceeded ex-parte against the workmen, 
none of whom also cared to put in appearance. 

6. The B.C.C.L. examined Krishna Mohan MW-1, the 
Personnel Officer of the Loyabad Colliery. He has deposed 
that there is a Workshop in the Colliery but none of the 
involved workmen is a workman in the Workshop. These 
fortynine workmen work in the Maintenance Section of the 
colliery and not in the Workshop. He has further deposed 
that the categorisation is proper, and what the workmen 
really want is promotion to higher categories and not proper 
categorisation because they already stand properly categori- 
sed. He Ls a responsible Officer and has no animus against 
any of the workmen. It is well-settled that whether a parti- 
cular employee should be promoted from one grade to a 
higher grade, depends not only on the length of sendee but 
also on his efficiency and other qualifications fr the higher 
post : to which he seeks to be promoted ; and, in the 
matter of promotion, the intimate knowledge of tho higher 
authority empowered to promote, has a greater value. In 
absence of a clear proof of mala tides or discrimination on 
extraneous grounds on the part of the management, it would 
be wholly inappropriate for any outside authority to attempt 
to weigh the relevant merits of the individuals who might 
be holding the higher posts and those who are aspiring for 
the same. Moreover, the determination of the size of the 
working force is the exclusive right of the management, and 
it is only when it is shown that the management is working 
with less men than necessary, that the workmen can claim 
that more posts of higher categories be created. Seniority 
alone is not everything. The other factors are efficiency, 
educational qualifications, character and the nature of res- 
ponsibility required in connection with a particular category. 
Tn such matters discretion lies primarily with the management 
and it follows as a corollary that it is for the management 
to come to the conclusion as to whether a person is suitable 
for being appointed to a particular post. The above princi- 
ples regulating promotion equally apply to categorisation or 
re-categorisation. The two are more or less in pari materia, 

7. Keeping in view the above principles it should be ob- 
vious that whether we call it a case of promotion from a 
lower category to a higher category, as aliened bv (he mana- 
gement or re-categoration from a lower category to a proper 
category^ as contended bv the workmen, it is primarily a 
managerial function. The management has before it the 
necessary data regarding: the service record: the character 
rolls; ihe work performance: the slow or muck turn over: 
the lower or hicher skill possessed: the superior or inferior 
efficiency etc. etc. ^ It is in a better position to judge the 
oncstinn of Promotion or re-categorisation, ns the rase mav 
be. Tile Trihunnl is hardlv the mthnriiv to perform the 
managerial function, unless there is manifest proof thnf them 
is victimisation’ there is unfair labour p'-actic - : there is 
malufides: there is want of bonafldes: there is nepotism: 'h-rc 
is favouritism or the kindred. There is no such case b-foro 
me. 


8. It has been said above that none of the workmen is 
a workman in the workshop of the colliery. Ihe Electricians 
at serial nos. 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 
16 have claimed CaLegory Vf. The basic wages of a Cate- 
gory Vf workman are Rs. 17.70 per day with an increment 
of 73 paise per year and the maximum is Rs. 25 which is 
reached in a span of ten years, This is exclusive o!_ fixed 
D.A., V.D.A. and Attendance Bonus. It is an electrician in 
a, Workshop alone who is entitled to Categoiy VI. See sciial 
No. 4— Category Vf— Page 50 and Serial No. 12— Category 
VI— Page 50 of Volume IT of the Report of the Central 
Wage Board for the Coal Mining Industry. That being so, 
none of the electricians cun either be promoted to Category 
VI or re-categoriscd from their existing categories into Cate- 
gory VI. S han kar Bhandari at serial no. 2 in the schedule 
lias already been promoted to Category VI in the Workshop. 
The electricians at serial nos. 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are in 

Category V and the evidence shows that this category is the 

Category. The electricians at serial nos. 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 
15, 16, 17, and 18 are in Category IV and again the evidence 
shows that their categories are also proper. The electricians 
at serial nos. 4 and 23 were electric apprentices and drawing 
a salary of Rs. 100 per month in 1973 and now they have 
been categorised in Category II with a salary of Rs. 10.40 

per day with an increment of 26 paise per year and with a 

maximum of Rs. 13 per day. The electricians at serial nos. 
19 and 20 were electric helpers in Category II and arc still 
Electric Helpers in Category II. The electrician at serial 
no. 22 was in Category I and is continuing in Category 1. 
Serial no. 22 of Category II deals with an Electric Helper. 
A Category IV electrician is mentioned at serial no. 23 - 
Category IV — Page 48. They arc electricians who are in 
Category IV and who were recommended to he placed in 
the same category by the Wage Board. An electrician in 
Category V is at serial no. 11 — Page 48 and the Wage Board 
recommended that all electricians in (he then Category VIT 
should be placed in Category V. Their pay scale is Rs. 14.50 
per day with an increment of 55 parse per day with a maxi- 
mum of Rs. 20/- per day. In any industrial establishment, 
there is a system of rationalisation. All hands cannot be 
placed in the highest category. Some will remain in the 
nighest and some In a hierarchy of lower categories till they 
gather sufficient experience and become more ripe and mature 
for promotion. What should be the strength of each cate- 
gory is a discritionary matter of the management, depending 
upon the nature of the work required and the work load 
etc. The Tribunal cannot interfere in this except in special 
circumstances and for that there is no data laid in the in- 
stant case. 

9, The Mechanical Fitters at serial nos. 24 and 47 were 
in Category V in 1973 and arc continuing in thut category. 
The mechanical fitter at serial no. 26 was in Category IV 
in 1973 but has now been given Category V. The mechani- 
cal fitters at serial nos. 25, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 34, 35, 42 
were either in Category TV or in lower categories in 1973 
but they are all now in Category IV. The workmen at 
serial nos. 32. 33, 36, 37 and 38 were Mechanical Helpers 
in 1973 in Category II who are now Category IV. The 
workman at serial no. 39 was a Fitter Helper in Category 
rt and Is now a Pipe-fiber in Category IV. The workman 
at serial no. 40 was Water-Pipe Fitter in Category IV and 
continues to be in that category. The workman at serial 
no. 41 was a Pump Khalasi in Category TIJ and is now a 
Mechanical Fitter in Category IV. The same is the case with 
the workman at serial no. 43. The workman al serial no. 
48 was a Tyndal in Category IV and is now a Mechanical 
Fitter in Category IV, "Hie wotkman at serial no. 44 is 
dead. The workman at serial no. 45 was mechanical helper 
in Category IT and has now been promoted to Category IV. 
The workman at serial no. 46 was a mechnnical helper in 
Category T and has now been promoted to Categorv TI. Tho 
workman at serial no. 49 was a fitter in Categorv TV and is 
still a fitter in Category IV. The above facts will appear 
front Ext. M-l which gives the brief history of each one 
of the 49 workmen. None of the workmen has appeared 
to give the basis for his claim. The B.C.C.L. has, on the 
other hand, given evidence to show that promotions were 
made, where indicated, and the categorisation of the re- 
mainder is proper. 

10. In ntv view the claim of the workmen is unjustified. 

11. Mv award is that the management of J oyabad Colliery 
is justified in not placing the workmen in the verions Cate- 
gories claimed by them. This does not apply to Shankar 



3458 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1 899 [Part II— Sec. 3(iij] ^ 


Bhandavi who has already been given the category claimed 
by him; and no decision is given in the case of Ahmed Mja 
who is dead. 

K. B. SRIVASTAVA, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-2001 2 /1 65/ 7 4-D. Ill A1 


Delhi, the 14th September, 1977 

S.O. 2997.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal No. 1, Dhanbad in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management 
of East Basuria Colliery, Post Office Bansjora, District Dhan- 
bad and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 27lh August, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO. 1, DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(f)(d) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 44 of 1977 

Ministry’s Order No. L-20025/17/75-D. Ill, A, Dt. 
11-8-1975). 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the manugmeent of bast Ba- 
suria Colliery, Post Oflice Bansjora, District Dhan- 
bad, 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

APPEARANCES ; 

For the Employers, — Shri T. P. ChoiKlhury, Advocate. 

For the Workmen. — Shri J, D. Lull, Secretary Bihar Col- 
liery Kamgnr Union, Dhanbad. 

INDUSTRY : Coal STATE : Bihar 

Dhanbad, dated the 22nd August, 1977 


4. The case of Chhota Rahman Mia is that he was a 

miner in East Basuria Colliery since the year 1962; that he 
had an unblemished record of service; that a charge-sheet 
Annexure ‘A’ was served on him on April 21, 1970 for 
commission of mis-conducts under clauses 10(h) I8(i) of 

the certified Standing Orders; that the gist of the charge was 
that he had absented himself from duty without permission 
during the period April 13, 1970 to April 20, 1970; that 
he had conspired with others to get himself marked present 
on duty during the period April 13, 1970 to April 16, 1970 
and that in this manner he had committed the two mis- 
conducts aforesaid; that he submitted a reply denying the 
allegations but admitted that he was absent from duty on 
two dates only, namely, April 17, 1970 and April 18, 1970 
and that also on account of sudden illness; that a domestic 
enquiry was held and he was dismissed from service on July 
4, 19)0; that his dismissal was illegal and unjustified be- 
cause (a) the domestic enquiry was held in violation of the 
principles of natural justice inasmuchas he was net allowed 
an opportunity to examine his witnesses in defence, (b) the 
findings recorded were perverse and against the weight of 
evidence on the record, (c) the order of dismissal was not 
approved by the owner, or the agent or the mining engineer 
of the mine, (d) his unblemished record of service was 
not taken into consideration, (c) absence without leave 
for a period less than 10 days is not a mis-cunduct, (f) 
there was no evidence of conspiracy and (g) in any case, 
the punishment of dismissal was wholly dls-proportionntc to 
the gravity of the charge. 

5. Notice was issued to the East Basuriya Colliery Com- 
pany Private Limited but the company did not put in appea- 
rance and the matter has proceeded cx-purte against it. 

6. The claim of the workman has been resisted by the 
B.C.C.L. on the grounds that the dismissal took place prior 
both to the date of taking over of management and vest- 
ment of the colliery in the Central Government and since 
there was no relationship of employer and employee bet- 
ween the Government or the Government company and the 
workman, the Government company, namely, the B.C.C.L. 
is not liable under sections 7 and 28 of the Coal Mines (Na- 
tionalisation) Act, 1973 because it is not the successor-in- 
interest of the quondam owner, that the dismissal took place 
as early as the year 1970 and the reference was made ns late 
as the year 1975 and due to Ihis inordinate delay and laches, 
no part of the domeslic enquiry record is available and no 
adjudication is possible. 


AWARD 

The Central Government, in exercise of the powers con* 
frred by clause (d) of sub-section (I) of section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act referred the following dispute for 
adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
No, 2, Dhanbad, by its order No. L-20IJ25/17/75-D Ilf A 
dated the 11th August, 1975, namely— 


“Whether the action of the management of East Basuria 
Colliery, Post Office Bansjora, District Dhanbad, 
of The host, Basuria (Toilierv Company private Ltd., 
Nctaji Subas Road, Calcutta- 1, taken over by the 
Central Government from 17th October, 1971, and 
now under the management of Messrs Bharat Cok- 
ing Coal Limited, Sij'ua, Vihar Building, Post Office 
Jharia, Distinct Dhanbad, in dismissing Shri Ch. 
Rahman Mia, Miner, with effect from ("he 4ih July 
1970, is justified ? If nol, to what relief is the 
said workman entitled?” 


. L T h ' W[,s received by transfer from Tribunal No. : 
in this Tribunal on March 22, 1977 by Government of India 
Ministry- of Labour, Order No. S-l 1 025 ( 1 1 /77-(i)D IV(B 
dated 22nd February, 1977. 


3. East Basuria Colliery formerly belonged to the 1 
Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited It was 
thffv . i C o 111 inc ' Its management was taken over 
3 of on. January 31, 1973 under sec, 

nance I973° a J^ lnes fT; iktng over of Management) O 
nance. >973. The ownership vested m the Central ( 
cinment on May 1, 1973 under section 3 of the Coa! M 
(Nationalisation) Act, 1973 and the ownership was * u 
fluently transferred to the B.C.C.L, 


7, The schedule to the reference shows that the burden 
to prove that the dismissal was justified, lies fairly and 
squarely on the quondam owner or may be, Ihe present 
owner of the mine, It has been stated earlier that the eist- 
wbilc owner has remained absent throughout and has neither 
filed a written statement nor appeared to prove the justifica- 
tion of the dismissal. The B.C.C.I.. has also not filed any 
documents nor has it adduced any oial evidence. The workman 
has also not produced any evidence, oral or documentary. In 
the circumstances, therefore, it must be held that (he dis- 
missal w-as unjustified. Besides the Stunding Order is quite 
dear that it is absence for a con'inuous period of more than 
10 days that constitutes a misconduct, but in the instant case, 
the absence, at the W'orst, was for 8 days only, I have no 
hesitation, therefore, in coming to the conclusion that Chhota 
Rahman Mia’s dismissal was wholly illegal and unjustified. 

8. The learned counsel for the B.C-C.I-. has argued that 
no award can be passed against the Government company 
under section 7 of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Ad, Sec- 
tion 7 reads thus ; 

"(J) Every liability of the owner, agent, manager or manag- 
ing contractor of a coal mine, in respect of any period prior 
to the appointed day, shall be (he liability of such owner, 
ugent. manager or managing contractor, as the case may be, 
and shall be enforceable against him and not against the 
Central Government or the Government company. 


(2) For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that— 

(a) save as o'herwisc provided elsewhere in this Act, nc 
claim for wages, bonus, royally, rate, rent, taxes, providtnt 
fund, pension, gratuity or any other dues in relation (o a coal 
mine in respect of any period prior to the appointed day, shall 



[ WT II— WiTT 3 ( i j ) ] 


4tT ttTTtT • faTP?’: 24, 1 9 7 7/jTlf^ 7, 189 9 


3459 


be enforceable against Ihc Cen tal Government or the Gov- 
ernment company ; 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 
COURT NO. 1. BOMBAY 


(b) no award, decree or order of any court, tribunal or 
other authority in relation to any coal mine passed, after the 
appointed day. but in relation to any mutter, claim or dispute 
which arose before that day, shall be enforceable against the 
Central Government or the Government company ; 

— (c) no liability for the contravention, before the appointed 
day, of any provision of law for the time being in force, shall 
be enforceable against the Central Government or the Govern- 
ment company.” Reliance has also been placed on B.C.C.L. 
vs. Dhanbad Collieiy. 1976 Lab. E C. 1513. That case was 
under the Coking Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. Sec- 
lion 9 of that Act is more or less in pari materia with Sec- 
lion 7 of the Act in question. The Patna High Court has 
held that in the case of a workman who was dismissed before 
I he appointed day, no award can be passed after the appointed 
day for his reinstatement against the Government company. 
The learned counsel for the workman argued that that deci- 
sion turned on the interpretation of Section 9 of that Act 
and will not bind this Tiibunal in so far as the interpretation 
of Section 7 of the Act in question is concerned. I do not 
think that this argument is correct. The language of the two 
sections is similar, if not indentical, and the object of both 
the sections is the same. It is not possible for me to distinguish 
the case. However, as prayed, I am giving the gist of the 
argument of the learned counsel. His principal argument is 
that once it is held that the dismissal was unjustified, there 
would normally be an order of reinstatement and payment 
of full back wages. If there is reinstatement retrospectively 
from the date of dismissal, the result would he that the work- 
man would be deemed to have conlinucd in service till April 
30, 1973 just prior to the date on which ownership vested 
in the Central Government. If that he so, Section 14 would 
come into play and B.C.C.L. will be bound to continue him 
in the employment. It is not that section 7 can control Sec- 
tion 14. Both sections have to be obeyed and in case there 
is any conflict or seeming conflict, the Tribunal should 
arrive at a harmonious construction so as to make it possible 
for both sections to be obeyed. It was further argued lhat if 
the two sections cut into each other, the latter section 
should be obeyed rather than the former one. As slated earlier, 
it is not for a subordinate Tribunal lo go behind the verdict 
of the Patna High Court, to which it is subordinate, and 1, 
therefore, refrain from expressing any view of my own. 


9. My award is that the management of the East Basuria 
Colliery Company Private Limited was nrtt justified in dis- 
missing Chhota Rahman Mia with effect from July 4, 1970. 
He is entitled to get full back wages from July 4, 1970 to 
April 30, 1973 from Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company 
Private Limited. He is not entitled to any relief against the 
B C.C.L. and since B.C.C.L. cannot be directed lo reinstate 
him and since the quondam owner cannot now reinstate him, 
no award for reinstatement is given. He wifi be only entitled 
to his full back wages from the quondam owner for the 
period indicated above. 


K. B. SRI VAST AVA, Presiding Officer. 

[No. 1,-20025/ 1 7 /75-DIIIA] 
S. H. S. IYER, Desk Officer. 


New Delhi, the 7th September, 1977 

S.O. 2998 — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industria 
Disputes Act 1947 (14 of 1947), Ihe Central Governmen 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal No, ], Bombay in the industria 
dispute between the employers in relation to the managemcn 
of Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their workmen whicl 
'^_ f l ’ ecclvcc ' by the Central Government on 5th September 


Reference No. CGIT-49 of 1975 

Employers in relation to Bombay Port Trust 
AND 

Their Workmen 


3 PPFARANCES : 

For the Applicant ; Shri K. R. Dengle, Advocate. 

For the Opp. Party : Shri R. K. Shetly. Legal Adviser, 
Bombay Port Trust. 

INDUSTRY: Port & Dock. STATE: Maharashtra. 

Bombay, the 9th August, 1977 
AWARD 

1. In exercise of powers conferred by sub-section (d) of 
section 10 oE the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government has referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tiibunal. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the punishment of dismissal imposed by the 
management of Bombay Port Trust, Bombay on Shri 
G. G. bandage, Tally Clerk, Docks Department, is 
justified taking all tclevant matters into account ? 
If not. to what relief is the concerned workman enti- 
tled ?” 

2. Shri G, G. Landgc was posted at 16 ID during the day 
shift of 11th July, 1969 for warehousing cargo. The Shed 
Suprintendent, Shri N. V. Joshi, directed Shri Lnndge to 
escort a motor lorry to an uncleared warehouse No. IID. The 
allegation was that Shri Landgc refused lo load lorn and empty 
paper bags into the lorry and entered into an argument with 
the Shed Superintendent. In consequence some time was lost 
and after unnecessary and acrimonious arguments with the 
Shed Superintendent Shri Landge, with great reluctance, escort- 
ed ; hc lorry at 4.00 p.m. from 16 ID to No. 1 uncleared 
warehouse and reached there at about 4.40 p.m, The Labour 
Supervisor of the Warehouse, Shri A. I. Shaikh asked his 
labourers to unload the package which were in sound condi- 
tion and directed Shri l.andgc lo take back the broken and 
empty package to No, 16 ID, It was alleged that Shri Landge 
refused to unload the packages which were in sound condi- 
tion and took back the lorry to 16 ID. There he threw the 
loading sheet on the table of Shri N V. Joshi, he Shed 
Superintendenl and showed abuses on him. 

3. Domestic enquiry was started where Mr. D. J. Collnco 
represented the Management whereas Mr. M. H. Inamdai 
represented the Transport & Dock Workers Union which had 
espoused the cause of Shri Landgc, Shri Landge during Ihe 
course of enquiry was termed as C.S.E, i.e. Charge Sheeted 
Employee. Details of the incidents will anpear from the three 
charges which were framed against Shri Landge 

CHARGE NO, 1 

"The C.S.E. was posted at 16 A.D. on 11-7-69 in the 8.00 
a.m. to 5 p.m. shift for warehousing cargo r l wo trips were 
made in Lorry No. BMS 7287 to the Uncleared Waiehousc, 
A.D, with paper bags. For the third trip, the C.S.E. was the 
escort, The lorry was loaded with paper bags and coil bundles 
at about 2.45 p.m. As the entire lot of paper bags was to be 
removed, the C.S.E. was asked to load the torn paper bags 
into the said lorry by Mr. N. V. Joshi, Shed Superintendent, 
16 A.D., but Ihe C.S.F. refused to load the torn paper bags 
into the lorry and wasted rime from 2.45 p.m. to 4.00 n.m. 
The C.S.E. has thus committed the misconduct of wilful insu- 
bordination or disobedience of a lawful or reasonable order of 
a superior and of an act subversive of discipline. 

CHARGE NO. 2 

The C'S.E. cscorled the third trip lorry to No 1 Uncleared 
Warehouse from 16 A.D. with great reluctance at about 4.00 
p.m. I he lorry arrived at Ihc Uncleared Warehouse at about 



3460 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


4.40 p.m. i.e.. at the close of the shift. The lorry contained 
some broken packages which were empty. The Labour Super- 
visor, Mr. A. 1. Shaikh, asked the mazdoors to unload the 
packages which were intact and the C.S.E. was asked .o take 
(he broken and empty packages back to 16 A.D. However the 
C.S.E. refused to unload the packages and coil bundles which 
were in good condition despite the instructions of he Labour 
Supervisor Mr. A. I. Sheikh, and the Shed Supdt. Mr. G. Id. 
Mulckar. The C.S.E. also failed to obtain ihe departure time of 
the lorry from Ihe Uncleared Warehouse and escor ed the lorry 
back lo 16 A.D. This conduct of the C.S.E. amounts to wil- 
ful insubordination and disobedience, dishonesty in connection 
with Port Trust Work, acting contrary to the procedure appli- 
cable to the establishment, and lo an act subversive of disci- 
pline. 

CHARGE NO. 3 

The C.S.E. brought the lorry back from No. 1 Uncleared 
Warehouse to 16 A.D. at about 4.45 p.m. and started abus- 
ing Mr. Joshi, Shed Supdt., 16 A.D. despite instructions to the 
contrary by Mr. SarfaraZHili, Asstt. Manager. He abused Mr. 
Joshi in the presence of Mr. Marathe, Asst . Shed Supdt., Mr. 
Lobo, P. W. Clerk, and Mr. D. G, Chawan. B. P. T. Watch- 
man. Because of the conduct of the C.S.E. •• described in 
Charges No, 1 and 2 above, the lorry had to be unloaded in 
the second shift an about 7.05 p.m. The C.S.E. has thus 
commil'ed an act subversive of discipline, wilful slowing 
down in the performance of work and a serious offence against 
Conduct and Discipline Rules. 


(9) A number of material questions pertinent to the cross- 

e summation were disallowed by the Enquiry Officer. 

(10) The lorry driver of BMS 7287 — a material witness 
was deliberately not examined w'hieh caused great 
prejudice in defence of the C.S.E, 

(11) Material contradictions in the statements and evi- 
dence of the wi nesses have not been considered. 

(12) The prosecution witnesses were allowed to introduce 
freely irrelevant and inadmissible material in their 
evidence. 

(13) The findings of the Enquiry Officer are contrary to be 
evidence on record. 

(14) That the punishment awarded lo the C.S.E. is dis- 
proportionate to the alleged misconduct and length 
of service has not been considered while prescribing 
extreme punishment lo the C.S.E. 

(15) The Enquiry Officer did not appreciate the fact that 
the C.S.E. was acting within the Rules and direc- 
tions issued by the B.P.T. when he declined to load 
torn and empty paper bags. 

(16) That the C.S.E. committed no breach of duty in 
refusing to load the lorry with tom and empty paper 
hags as that would have been against rules and direc- 
(ions of the B.P.T. 


The C.S.E. pleaded not guilty." 

4. Shri Landge pleaded not guilty. On the basis of evidence 
adduced before him, the enquiry officer found by his order 
dated 14-6-1973 Shri l ondge guilty of the miseounduct of (i> 
Wilful insubordination abusing superiors (ii; Disobedience of 
a lawful order of a superior (iii) Act subversive of discipline 
and wilful slowing down in the performance of work (iv) 
Dishonesty in connection with Fort Trust work and Iv) Aciing 
contrary to the established procedure. 

5. Shri Landge was called upon to show cause by letter 
dated 6-7-1973, His venly to the show' cause was not received 
till IRth of August, 1973 despite extensions of (he time limit on 
two occasions. Accordingly the Docks Malinger dismissed him 
from service with effect from 23rd August, 1973. 

6. The Transport and Dock Workers Union (hereinafter 
referred to as the 'Union’) took the malter to the Assistant 
1 nbour Commissioner in conciliation. Bui on submission 
of his failure report, the present Reference has been made. 

7. The Union, in the statement of claim, has set- out the 
following grounds seeking to set aside (he order of dis- 
missal ; — 

(1) That Ihe charges framed against the C.S.E. were vague 

nnd of indefinite expanse. No particulars thereof were 
furnished to the C.S.E. with the result that the 
defence of (he C.S.E. was materially impaired. 

(2) That the C.S.E. was undefended and he could not 

participate in the enquiry proceeding for want of 
knowledge of the English language. 

(3) The Enquiry Officer overlooked the faci that the 

story as tried to be made out against the C,S E. is 
not corroborrated by any witnesses examined before 
him. 

(4) That material witnesses in (he case have no been 

examined by the B.P.T. 

(5) The Enquiry Officer relied more on inferences that 

proof of charges alleged against the C.S.E. 

16) The Enquiry Officer should not have conducted (he 
Inquiry Proceedings against the C.S.E. in the absence 
of the Union Representative. 

(7) The Enquiry Officer was biased against the C.S.E. and 

passed irrelovent remarks and observations against 
the C.S.E. 

(8) The Enquiry Officer practically shut off [he evidence 

of the C.S.E, by disallowing him to cross-examine 
(he witnesses oil the presumption that the C.S.E. 
was arrogant. 


(17) That the entire inquiry proceedings were an empty 
formality and depugnant to judicial spirit and princip- 
les of natural justice. 

(18) That the inquiry proceedings were conducted in total 
disregard to the principles of natural justice. 

(19) No copies of statements made by the wi nesses before 
cross-examination were furnished to ihe C.S.F, by ihe 
Inquiry Officer. 

8. The Bombay Port Trust has filed a statement-cum-rc- 
joindcr wherein it is con ended that Shri Landge was dismissed 
from service after holding a full-fledged departmeni enquiry 
into his conduct. By Memo dated 6-7-1973, Shri Landge was 
called upon to show cause within seven days as to why he 
should not be dismissed from service. At the request of the 
Transporl & Dock Workers Union, the time limit for sub- 
mission of his explanation was extended upto 29-7-1973. Since 
no explanation was forthcoming either from Shri Landge or 
>hc Union, the latter was informed on 10-8-1973 that if no 
explanation was received within three days, the proposed 
punishment of dismissal from service would be passed ex- 
parte. Neither the Union for Shri Landge gave any reply 
and accordingly the Dismissal Order dated 18-8-1973 was 
issued. On 20-8-1973 a letter was received from the Union 
requesting in cr-alia, to show leniency and sympathy in deal- 
ing with the case and also nutting forward certain arguments 
against the verdict of the Enquiry Officer. The submissions 
made were carefully considered but it was found that I here 
was on reason to alter the decision already taken by his letter 
dated 8-7-1974, Shri Landge appealed to the Chairman to re- 
view dismissal order nnd to reinstate him to duty. Bui the Chair- 
man rejected the appeal and Shri Landge was informed accord- 
ingly, It Is the case of the Management that the employee 
was represented by the representative of the Union during 
the enquiry and he cross-examined all the witnesses except 
Shri Shaikh at the departmental enquiry. The Union represen- 
tative declined to attend the enquiry because of some dispute 
between the Union and Shri Landge over non-payment of 
Unions subscrintion and Shri Landge himself refused to cross- 
examine the witness. There existed sufficient evidence on re- 
cord even if evidence of this last witness is excluded. The 
various grounds set out by the Union for setting aside the 
order of dismissal have been traversed and denied by the 
Management. It is stated that the charges Shri Landge were 
dear and definite and that the statement of allegations compris- 
ing of several documents on the basis of which the charges 
were framed was furnished alone with the s’atement of the 
charges to Shri Landge. Of all the eight witnesses examined, 
seven were cross-examined by Shri Tnamdar, a representative 
of the Union, except Shri Shaikh, the Labour Supervisor. He 
was nol cross-examined due to the absence of the Union Re- 
presentative and Shri Landge refused to cross-examine him. 
Shri Tnamdar. the representative of the Union, had declined 
to attend the concluding s f ages of the enquiry owing to some 



[<TFT TI — nffTt T ifiT 21, I 977/3nftaT 2, 1899 346 li 


dispute which had arisen between Shri Landge and the Union 
over non-payment of Union’s fees payable by Shri Landge 
Shri Landge has passed the S.S.C. examination and, therefore, 
the pica ol lack of knowledge of English language was not 
available to him. Evidence of Shri N. V. Joshi, Shed Supdi.. 
has been corroborated hy all ihe other departmental witnesses 
and then evidence was not demolished in the cross-exami- 
nation. If any material wi ncss was not examined by the 
Management, it was tor the Union to have produced him. 
The Management denies that the Enquiry Officer was biased 
against Shri Eandgc rather it was Shri Landge who had be- 
haved arrogantly with the Enquiry Officer and had refused to 
answer the questions put to him on the false plea that the 
Union Representative had instructed him not to answer any 
question. Question of shutting off evidence did not arise and 
that no material question pertinent to the cross-examination 
was disallowed. If the lorry driver was a material witness for 
the defence, the latter could have easily examined him. The 
allegation that nia’erial contradictions were not considered 
and prosecution witnesses were allowed to introduce freely 
irrelevant and inadvisable material evidence and that the 
finding of the Enquiry Officer is contrary to the evidence on 
record have been denied. The punishment also cannot be said 
to be disproportionate since during the course of 11 years' 
service there had been occasions for imposing the following 
punishment on him : — 

(i) By deducting his proportionate wages for deserting 
his post of duty on “no work no pay” basis : 

(ii) He was severely reprimanded by the Docks Manager 

for negligence in discharge of his duties ; 

(iii) In Ihe year 1973, he was reduced in the time scale 

hy two stages for a period of one year. 

Shri T.andge cannot be said to be within the rules when 
he declined to load tom and empty paper hags since accord- 
ing to Shri Apte, the Labour Supervisor at the transit shed, 
necessary instructions had been given to Shri Landge for 
passing remarks on the loading sheet against packages that 
were damaged and as such it was Shri Landge’s duty to pass 
the necessary remarks on the loading sheet. Lorry with the 
loaded bags was ready for despatch at 2. 43 p.m.. but delay 
was caused on the pretext of Shri Landge that the I.orry Chit 
Book was not available. It was traced by him at 3.45 p.m. 
from the table drawer. Shri Landge had refused to receive 
a copy of the notes of hearing on 25-1-1973 and 29-1-1973 
from the enquiry officer saying that the Union Representative 
had instructed him to not to sign anything in acknowledgement 
of notes of evidence. Thus it was the employee himself who 
had refused to accept Ihe notes of evidence when offered by 
the Enquiry Officer. Other irregularities alleged against the 
Domestic Enquiry have also been denied. 

9. At the hearing for the workman following points were 
urged to show that the domestic enquiry suffered from various 
infirmities : — 

'll Bias. (2) Fxtraneous considerations. (3) Inappreeiation 
of the evidence adduced (4) Lorry Driver 
& Asstt. Manager. who were material 
witness, were not examined f 5) Log 

Book of the lorry not produced. (61 Finding of the 
Enquirv Officer is Derverse and (71 Punishment im- 
posed is disproportionate. 

10. I shall take up the points seriatem in the order as 
they have been set out above, 

11. The enquiry was conducted by Shri D. A Feu-eira. 
On 11-10-1972 Shri landge was examined and he admitted 
lhat he had received the Charge Sheet and the accompanying 
papers and pleaded not guilty to the three charges. Tt seems 
that this Fnquiry Officer had been conducting ano'her enquirv 
against Shri 1 andge and he made a note on 11-10-1972 that 
lie will take up the present enquiry after finishing the report 
in 'he one lhat he has already heard. The argument is that 
since this officer had alrcadv conducted one enquiry against 
Shri L andge his mind had been biased nnd he should not 
have proceeded with this enquiry ; rather he should have re- 
turned it. 

12. Another fact that was broueht to mv notice was that 
in paragraph 8 of the report, the Enquiry Officer has stated 
that during the course nf enquiry he found the behaviour 
of Shri T.andge as “one of impudence nnd defiance. Although 
Mr. Colhico had slated that the union would not defend 

SO GI 77— 8 


the C.S.E. because he was in arrears with his Union Subscrip- 
tion, the C.S.E. defiantly refused to sav if he had paid their 
fee.” 

13. I do not think that any of the grounds relied upon on 
behalf of the workman indicates bias of ihe Enquiry Officer 
against the workman, Nothing was pointed out to show that 
ihe Enquiry Officer imported his knowledge about the o'her 
enquiry against Shri Landge info the present one. If he 
kept the two enquiries separate and never allowed his mind 
to be influenced by what he had found in the previous en- 
quiry, no charge of bias can be entertained against the En- 
quiry Officer. The Enquiry Officer was also within his 
rights to note down his opinion that he formed about the 
workman during ffie course of enquiry. He has disclosed 
the reason on account of which he called the behaviour of 
the workman as impudent and defiant. 

14. Extraneous consideration is alleged because the Enquiry 

Officer, in ihe Order Sheet, has written about the reason of ab- 
sence of Shri M. H. I. Inamdar, ihe representative of the 
Union that was espousing the cause of the workman. On 
25-1-1973, the Enquiry Officer has written that the worker 
and Mr. Inamdar were absent and he found that this was 
(he second adjournment at which Mr. Inamdar was not pre- 
sent. Since nothing had been brought to his notice as to 
why Mr. Tnamdar and the workman were not present, the 
Enquiry Officer decided to proceed with the enquiry in their 
absence. V that stage, Mr. Collaco, who presented the case 
on behalf of the management, stated that the Union Represen- 
tatives were not willing to defend Shri Landge as he had not 
been paid the union fee for two years. On the last occasion 
Shri Landge had asshred Mr. S. R. Kulkarni that he would 
pay the dues within n week’s time. Mr, Collaco had per- 
sonally requested the workman to collect the amount from 
his friends as it not exceed Rs. 50. Mr. Inamdar had also con- 
firmed that he was not willing to defend the worker for the 
above reason. It is in this circumstance that the enquiry officer 
decided to proceed in the absence of Mr. Inamdar. At about 
3.20 p.m, the worker turned up saying that he had learnt that 
Mr. Inamdar had gone to Court and he did not know if 

any union representative would come lo the enquiry that 

day. Tn such a circumstance, Mr. A. J. Shaikh, the Labour 
Supervisor at the uncleared warehouse was examined-in- 
chief, The worker did not like to cross-examine him since 
he said that Mr. Inamdar had asked him not to do so in his 
absence. The Enquiry Officer gave him one more opportunity 
and adjourned the case and made It clear that on that date 

the enquiry will be closed. The worker did not tell him 

whether he proposed to give any evidence or not. The enquiry 
was accordingly adjourned to 29-1-1973. On that date, the 
worker was present, but Mr. Inamdar was absent and the 
worker stated that in the absence of Mr. Inamdar he had no 
questions to ask. The F.nquiry Officer repeatedly asked the 
worker whether he wished to lead any evidence or to make 
nny statement The worker refused to make statement sav- 
ing that Shri Inamdar had instructed him not to sneak a 
single word. Such being the attitude of the worker the en- 
quiry was closed and the worker did not say anything as 
he had been instructed by Mr. Tnamdar. I do not think the 
mounds on which Ihe enquiry was closed can he said lo 
import any extraneous consideration nor do ihey of infringe 
and principle of natural justice. 

15. The following witnesses of the Transit Shed were exa- 
mined a( the enquiry 

(i) N. V. Joshi, Shed Supdt.— his duty hours were from 

8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

(ii) X. S. Mahadik, Shed Supdt.. 16 A.D. — his duty hours 

were from' 5 p.m. onwards. 

(iii) Mr. H. F. Lobo, 1st Grade Clerk. 

(iv) Mr. B. C. Apte, Labour Supervisor, 16 A.D. 

(v) Mr. E.A.C. Anradc, Sorter, Docks Deptt. 

16. The following witnesses of No, 1 Uncleared Ware- 
house were examined at the enquiry : — 

(i) Mr. Cr. H. Mulekar, Shed .Supdt. 

(ii) Mr. A, T. Shaikh. labour Supervisor (he was not 
cross-examined). 

17. On behalf of the worker my attention was invited to 
evidence of some of the above witnesses and an attempt was 
made to show that evidence of some witnesses did not receive 
corroboration and that there were discrepancies and contradic- 



THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA : SEPTEM BER 24, 1977/ASV1NA 2, 18 99 ^ [Part lT-gc. ?(ii)1 


lions in the evidence, N. V. Joshi has stated that on the way the 
lorry was detained by the workman at the Buscle bridge 
from about 2.30 to 4.30 p.m. and that the lorry reached the 
undented Warehouse at 4.30 p.m. and that Mr. Mulehar 
refused to allow the lorry to be unloaded as it had arnvert 
late It is said that there is no corroboration from the evi- 
dence of other witnesses. Even if there be no corroboration 
of the lorry having been detained near the bridge it has no 
material bearing to the charges in question. Further evidence 
of Mr- loshi is that the reason why the workman was re- 
fusing to load the hags into the lorry was because the bags 
were "torn. No doubt there were standing instructions not to 
accept the damaged, torn or broken packages, but there should 
have been no objection on the part of the workman since the 
loading had been done under the Instruction of the Assistant 
Manager and that Shvi loshi had himself made remarks on 
the loading sheet showing as to how many bags were torn 
at that time and had initialled the same. His further evidence 
is that the unloading could not have been refused if the 
Warehouse Shed Superintendent had seen this loading sheet 
and if he had any doubt, he could have made enquiry from 
him on telephone Comment was made that the lorrv driver 
was not examined, nor the Log Hook of the lorry produced. 
Record being had to the kind of charges that 
were being investigated omission to examine the lorry driver 
and non-prodoction of the T og Book do not appear to be of 
any importance. 


18. Evidence of Mr. H. F. Lobo was referred to show 
that it does not speak about the abuses said to have made 
by the workman to Mr. Joshi Mr. Lobo, however, is quite 
clear that there was shouting at each other and that he could 
not follow what they were talking since their talks were in 
Marathi. He, however, is cleared that considering the 
position of the Shed Superintendent, he felt that the work- 
man was clearly disrespectful. 

19. Evidence of Mr. G- H. Mulekar Is that the lorry 
arrived at 4.40 p.m. and ordinarily (he delivery and receiv- 
ing work is stopped at 4.30 p.m., but since this was a B.P.T. 
Lorry, he had to off-load the contents into the warehouse. 
Although there was a rule that empty packages should not 
be received In the warehouse without the instructions of a 
higher authority, he was prepared to allow the unloading to 
be done, had be been shown the loading sheet countersigned 
by (ho Shed Superintendent of the Transit Shed giving the 
instructions to accept these packages. A perstutl of the evi- 
dence of this witness clearly shows that the loading sheet was 
not produced before him and as such he could not allow the 
unloading to be done. No doubt there is discrepancy in the 
testimony of Mr. Joshi and this witness as to the reason 
why the unloading could not be done, hut the reason assigned 
by Mr, Joshi is what was stated to him by Mr. Landge, On 
this ground alone, evidence of either of the two witnesses 
cannot he viewed with suspicion. 


found guilty of wilful insubordination, disobedience of ? 
lawful order and ofhei charges which were levelled against 
hint. As such 1 do not think that the punishment imposed is 
disproportionate. 

24. The matter can be judged from another point of view. 
The kind of approach that this tribunal should apply in mat- 
ters of this kind has been clearly laid down by the Supreme 
Court. It was held in the case of Shvi Anand Bazar Patrika 
and its employee (1963 II LLI 429) “ If the termination of an 
Industrial employee’s services has been preceded by a proper 
domestic enquiry which has been held in accordance with the 
rules of natural justice and the conclusions reached at the 
said enqttiry are not perverse, the tribunal is not entitled to 
consider the propriety or the correctness of the said con- 
clusions. If, on the other hand, in terminating the services 
of the employee, the management has acted maliciously or 
vindictively or has been actuated by a desire to punish ihe 
employee for his trade union activities, the tribunal would 
be entitled to give adequate protection to the employee by 
ordering his reinstatement, or directing in his favour the 
payment of compensation; hut if the enquiry has been pro- 
per and the conduct of the management in dismissing the 
employee is not mala fide, then the tribunal cannot interfere 
with the conclusions of the enquiry officer, or with the order; 
passed by the management after accepting the said conclu 
slons." It will be noticed that there Is nothing to show tha 
in the present case the Management acted maliciously oj 
vindictively or was actuated by a desire to punish the work 
man for any Trade Union activity. The conduct of th< 
Management also cannot be said to he main fide. 

25. In Indian iron & Steel Co. Ltd. and their workmen 
( 1958 [ LLJ 2601, it was held that ihe tribunal will interfere 
“(i) when there is a want of pood faith, (ii) when there is 
victimization or unfair labour practice, f Hi) when the mana- 
gement has been guilty of a basic error or violation of a 
principle of natural justice and (iv) when on the materials 
the finding is completely baseless or perverse.” The present 
is not such a case. Tf the last witness op. behalf of the 
Management was not cross-examined, the fault cannot be 
laid on the shoulder of the Management. Even if that wit- 
ness is excluded there remained cogent evidence to warrant 
the conclusions arrived at. 

26. For the above reasons it must be held that the punish- 
ment of the dismissal imposed by the management of Bom- 
bay Port Trust, Bombay on Shri G. G. Landge, Tally Clerk, 
pocks Department, was justified taking all relevant matters 
into consideration and that the workman is not entitled to 
any relief. 

27. The reference is answered accoidingly. 

T. NARAIN, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-3 1012(3) /75-D-IV( A )j 
NAND LAL, Desk Officer. 


20. Evidence of Mr. Anrade, the sorter is clear that there 
were a few bags which were torn and a few empty bags 
and the Shed Superintendent had mado a mention of it in 
the loading sheet. A suggestion was given to him that hags 
were suspected to have been stolen. But the suggestion has 
remained a suggestion. 

21. Evidence of Mr. B. G. Apte. the l abour Supervisor, is 
that at the time of loading he had expressed his difficulties 
that they were not supposed to load damaged goods. But he 
did not have anv objection when Shri Landge was given 
permission to have the remarks mentioned on the loading 
sheet about the condition of the packages, ft was after all 
this that the loading was done on the loiry and it was ready 
for despatch at 2.45 n.m. On (he pretext that the 1 orry Chit 
Book was not available, the worker delayed despatch of the 
lorry till 3.45 p.m. At 3.45 p.m. the Chit Book was found, 
but Shri Landge told Mr. Joshi that he will bring back the 
lorry to the shed for unloading and that the lorrv started at 
4 p.m. He is also dear that Shri Landge had lost his temper 
in the talks with Mr. foshl. 

22. T have set out above the evidence to which reference 
was made and on reading them I do not think that there was 
inapprcciation of evidence on the part of the Enquiring Offi- 
cer. 

23. The management in its rejoinder has set out the kind 
of previous record that the workman possessed. He has been 


New Delhi, the 8th September, 1977 

S.O, 2999. — Tn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal (No. I ) Dhanbad in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the United Com- 
mercial Bank and their workmen, which was received by the 
Central Government on the 3rd Sept., 1977. 

BFFORF. THE CENTRA!. GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO. 1, DHANBAD 

In the Matter of a reference under .section 10 fl) (d) of Ihe 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 

Reference No. 18 of 1974 

Ministry’s Order No. L- 120 1 2/140/73 fl -RUT, d(. 18-12-1974. 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the United Commercial Hank. 
AND 

Their Workmen. 

APPEARANCES ; 

For the Employers : Shri Anin Ray and Shri G. C. 
Sen, officers of the Bank. 



3463 


r *rr'T If — fTJ i (i i ) ] flUff ITT 773TW : 


For the Workmen : Shri J. C. Padhiar, the concerned 
Workman. 

STATE : Bihar. INDUSTRY : Bank. 

Dhanhad, dated the 29lh August, 1977 
AWARD 

The Central Government, in exercise of the powers con 
ferred by cluusc ( d ) of sub-section (i) ol section 10 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act has leforrcd the following dispute ini 
adjudication to this Tribunal, namely 

“Whether the action of the management of the United 
Commercial Bank, Jamshedpur in terminating the 
services of Sarvashri J. C. Padhiar, Clerk, and 
Pashupathi Nath Singh, Peon, from the 13th .lime, 
1972 and 26th Inly, 1973 tcspecrivcly is justified 7 
If not, to what relief arc they entitled 7” 

2. The case of the United Commercial Bunk (hereinafter 
referred to as the Bank) as against Padhiar is that he was 
appointed as a clerk on purely temporary basis during the 
period January 28, 1971 to March 24, 1971 in the lenve vacan- 
cies of Mrs. Santham Nuiuynnswamy, T. N. Upadhyuy and 
L.S. Gopalakrishnan. Therealler he was given another ap- 
pointment as a purely temporary clerk during the period 
April 13, 1971 and May 30, 1971 in the leave vacancies of 
l„S. Gopalaki ishnun, Mrs. P. S. Indira, K. C. Dave and 
B. N. Bhowmick. He was given a third lempoiaiy appointment 
during the period June 7, 1971 to June 26, 1971 in the leave 
vacancy of N. P. Tripathy. A fresh temporary appointment 
was given to him during the period October 5, 1971 to Nov- 
ember 5, 1971 in the leave vacancies of Mrs. Santham Nara- 
ynaswamy and Mis. Yogambal Parasuraman. Another fresh 
temporary appointment was given to him during the period 
January 5, 1972 to April 4, 1972 in the leave vacancy of 
Mrs. S. N. Swamy. A final temporary appointment was given 
to him during the period April 20, 1972 to June 12, 1972 
in the leave vacancy of Mrs. Yogambal Puiasuraman. This 
temporary appointment was not extended any ftu her beyond 
June 12, 1972. The Bunk aliegcy that there was no termina- 
tion of his service with effect from Tune 13, 1972 and what 
happened was an automatic end due to the efflux of time. 
The Bank has also alleged that there could be no question of 
absorption of Padhiar on a permanent footing as he hud failed 
to qualify at the written test for recruitment of permanent 
clerical hands. 

4. The Bank's case as against Singh is that he was ap- 
pointed as a temporary peon during the period October 28, 

1971 and January 4, 1972 in the leave vacancy of Chandur 
Singh ; during the period February 28, 1972 to April 10. 

1972 in the leave vacancy of Ramakant Rai ; during the 
period May 3, 1972 to May 20, 1972 in the leave vacancy 
of Ratan Singh ; during the period May 22, 1972 to July 

24, 1972 in the leave vacancy of Ambika Prasad ; during the 
period October 22, 1972 to October 28, 1972 in leave vacancy 
of Ramji Lai Singh ; during the period November 17, 1972 
to December 23, 1972 in the leave vacancy of Shiva Nand 
Dubey ; during the period February 5, 1973 to April 10, 

1973 in the leave vacancy of Chandar Singh ; during the 
period May 23, 1973 to June 10, 1973 in the leave vacancy 
of Ramakant Rai : and during the period June II, 
1973 to (uly 25, 1973 in the leave vacancy of Ramji La! 
Singh. His temporary services were not extended after July 

25, 1973. Tt has further been alleged by the Bank that thcie 
was no question of the termination of his service also as his 
services came lo an end by efflux of lime caused hv ihe non- 
extension of his lasl term. The Hank has then alleged that 
after the cessation of his service, Singh appeared at the writ- 
ten test for recruitment of subordinate cadre staff and quali- 
fied at the same and because of that has now been taken in 
the permanent service of the Bank since September 20, 1973. 

3. A large number of legal pleas have also been raised 
by the Bank againsl both Padhiar and Singh. These pleas, in 
a nut-shell arc: (1) Padhiar and Singh were not mem- 
bers of the United Commercial Bank Employees’ Association, 
Jamshedpur and, therefore, the Association had no locus 
standi to sponsor their dispute, (2) the United Commercial 
Bank Employees’ Association lias no right lo represent I hem 
m these proceedings under section 36 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act inasmuch as it is not registered trade union, (3) 
the reference had not been made under section 2A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and as such the individual dispute 


farWU g-h 1977/3TTfitffff 2 , 1899 


cannot be deemed by ficliun ol law to be an industrial dis- 
pute, (.4 J the United Commercial Bank Employees’ Associa- 
tion was also not authorised to sponsor the dispute ol Padhiar 
and Singh because it had not passed any Resolution for the 
espousal of their cause, (5) N. J*. Tripathy, the authorised 
representative of the United Commercial Bank Emp- 
loyees’ Association has resigned his membership of the As- 
sociation and has also withdrawn his authorisation and, 
therefore, he cannot represent either Padhiar and Singh, (6) 
Padhiar has no right to authorise D. P. Roy, General Secre- 
tary, All India United Commercial Stuff Federation to repre- 
sent his case and D, P, Roy also has no authority to so re- 
present him ;(7) D. P. Roy has no authority to represent him 
also because Ihe All India United Commercial Bank Staff 
Federation has not passed any Resolution authorising him to 
represent Padhiar : (8) Padhiar and Singh ceased to be work- 
man under sec 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act and the 
icfcrence is, therefore, without jurisdiction, (9) there is no 
industrial dispute within the meaning of section 2k of the 
Industrial Disputes Act as there can be no such dispute bet- 
ween non- workman and the management, (10) both Padhiar 
and Singh arc estopped from raising the dispute because they 
had obtained payment of their salaries till the last date of 
their service and (11) they had withdrawn their claim before 
the A.L.C. during the course of conciliation proceedings and 
they arc estopped from raising the dispute on that ground 
also. 

6 Singh did not file any written statement and did not 
put in appearance on any date of hearing presumably because 
he has since then been re-employed as a permanent hand 
and has no interest left in this infructuous dispute. The mat- 
ter has proceeded c.x parte against him. 

7. Padhiar has pleaded that he lias put in a total period 
of service extending to 301 days against permanent vacan- 
cies and not against leave vacancies; that since he has com- 
pleted more than 240 days of service, he is eligible for per- 
manent absorption under paras 20.8 to 20.12 of the Bi-partite 
Settlement between the Bank and its workmen arrived at 
on October )9, 1966; that he is further entitled for perma- 
nent absorption under paras 20.8 to 20.12 of the Bi-partite 
pen absorption under the Bank’s circular dated Julv 7. 1972. 
that he had appeared at the written test on January 26, 1971 
and had qualified and was thus entitled to permanancy ; that 
the Bank has made temporary hands, similarly situated as 
him, into permanent hands which is highly discriminatory ; 
that he has been viAimised on account of his trade union 
activities ; that he had raided an industrial dispute himself 
and also through the United Commmercial Bank Employees’ 
Association ; that N. P. Tripalhv’s vrithdrawal is immaterial 
inasmuch us he can represent his case himself before the Tri- 
bunal ; and hence he is entitled to reinstatement wilh con- 
tinuity of service and full back wages. 

8. Tn its reioindcr, the Bank has pleaded that the case 
of Padhiar is neither covered by the Bi-Partite Settlement nor 
by- tbe circular letter ; that Padhiar appeared at the written 
test held in Mav 1971 but failed to qualify at the same : 
that there was no test held on January 26, 1971 ; and that 
Padhiar is not entitled to any relief whatsoever. 

9. At tile instance of the parties, 12 issues were framed 
to cover the legal pleas. These issues are as follows : 

(1) Is the reference invalid for tbe reason that the dis- 
pute is an individual and not an industrial dispute and the 
reference has not been made under Section 2A of the Indus, 
trial Disputes Act ? 


(2) Had the United Commercial Bank Employees’ As- 
sociation. Jamshedpur no locus standi to invoke the jurisdic- 
tion of the Central Government under Section ]0(l)(d) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

(3) Ts the United Commercial Bank Employees’ Asso- 
ciation a registered trade union ? Tf not, has it no right to 
is present the workman 0 

(4) Was I. C. Padhiar a member of the TTnifed Commcr- 
1 ial Bank Employees" Asso> intion If not, car ilia 1 . Association 
represent him ? 



^464 THE GAZETTE OT INDIA : SETTtMBER 24, 1977/ASVTNA 2, 1899 LPa nt H— Stc\ 3(ii)] 


(5) Was a resolution passed by the general body of the 
United Commercial Bank Employees' Assoclaticd or by its 
Executive Committee empowering the Secretary of the Asso- 
ciation to represent 1. C, Padhiar ? If not, its effect? 

(6) Has the Association lost its right to represent J. C. 
Padhiar because of the resignation of N. P, Tripathi, the 
former Secretary ? 

(7) Is D, P, Roy, General Secretary, All India United 
Commercial Bank Staff federation not entitled to represent 
J. C. Padhiar ? 

(8) Is the All India United Commercial Bank Staff Fede- 
ration not empowered to represent J. C Padhiar without pas- 
sing a resolution to thHt effect ? 

(9) Is J. C. Padhiar not a workman within the moaning 
of Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act 7 If so, its 
effect? 

(10) Is J. C. Padhiar c topped from challenging the ter- 
mination of his service ? 

(11) Is there no industrial dispute within the meaning of 
Section 2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act ? 

(12) Is Sri R. K, Mukherjee entitled to represent J. C. 
Padhiar ? 

10. Evidence on the legal issues was led earlier and Ihe 
following findings were recorded on June 13, 1977 on there 
issues, namely : 

Issue No. 1 

The plea raised, in paragraph 2 of the written statement of 
the Bank, is that the reference relates to an individual, 
namely. J. C. Padhiar and since the same has not t.en 
referred under Section 2A, there is no industrial dispute and 
the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to decide it. 

The contention of the representative of the Bank is that 
there are several factors contained in the order of reference 
itself which will go to show that the dispute referred is a 
collective dispute and not an individual dispute and, there- 
fore, if the United Commercial Bank Employees Association 
can be put out of the way, J, C. Padhiar would not be com- 
petent to raise his individual dispute and the Tribunal will 
have no jurisdiction to go into the merits of the matter. The 
order of reference mentions that the Central Government was 
of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the United 
Commercial Bank and their workmen. It also mentions that 
Ihe reference was being made under Section 10(1 )(d) read 
with Section 2A. Moreover, a copy of the reference was 
endorsed to the Secretary, United Commercial Bank Em- 
ployees Association, and not to J. G. Padhiar in person. It 
is on the basis of the above facts that it is argued that 
no individual dispute ripening into an industrial dispute under 
Section 2A has been referred for adjudication. The order 
further mentions that the industrial dispute referred is spe- 
cified in the Schedule. The Schedule mentions whether the 
action of the Bank in terminating the services of J. C. 
Padhiar was justified. The dispute referred, therefore, con- 
cerns a single workman though it was espoused by the Asso- 
ciation. Reliance was placed on Swapan Das Gupta vs. The 
First Labour Court. 1976 Lab. I.C. 202, decided by the Cal- 
cutta High Court for the proposition that when a reference 
is not under Section 10(1) (d) read with Section 2A, that is 
to say, the reference has not been made on the ground that 
there is a dispute existing between the employer and the 
individual workman, the reference cannot be upheld under 
Section 2A. In taking this view, the High Court disagreed 
with the decision of the Madras High Court in Coimbatore 
Co-operative Milk Supply Union Ltd. vs. Siluvaimuthu. 1970 
(II) LLJ.101. In that case, the dispute was whether the non- 
employment of seven workmen was justified and if not, to 
what relief each was entitled. The management pleaded that 
the reference was not valid because there was no industrial 
dispute, The Government took the stand that in making the 
reference, they had not invoked Section 2A of the Act, The 
management contended that the Labour Court, therefore. 


could not sustain the reference under Sec. 2A. The Madras 
High Court held that the mere fact that the Government say 
that they did not mean to invoke Section 2A is immaterial 
If the Court found that the Government had jurisdiction by 
virtue of Section 2A it was open to the Court to sustain the 
reference by reference to Sec. 2A. The same point came uf 
for decision in the same High Court in Management ol 
Pioneer K. Estate vs. Workmen of Pioneer k. Estate, 1974 
( I ) LLJ. 332. In that case, the dispute was sponsored by the 
union though it related to a single workman. The represen 
tative character of the union was challenged and it was 
contended that the dispute referred to for adjudication was 
only an individual dispute but Section 2A had not been in 
voked and it would not be a collective dispute as the unior 
was not of a representative character. The view expressed ir 
the earlier case was followed and it was held that Section 2 A 
would come into operation because the Government had tht 
jurisdiction to make the reference under Section 2A. Ir 
Dunlop India Limited vs. B. D. Gupta, 1975 Lab. I.C. 702, ihe 
dispute regarding termination was taken up both by the 
union as well as by the employee. It was argued that met 
it was shown that the union had taken up the matter ant 
had espoused the dispute, the dispute became a collective 
dispute under Section 2(k) and cannot be ^aid to be ar 
individual dispute under Section 2A. This contention was 
repelled by the Delhi High Court by the observation thai 
Section 2(k) defines an industrial dispute and Sec. 2A it 
merely an exception to it, and because by deeming provisior 
it makes what is provided therein an industrial dispute, there 
tore, what is referred to under Section 10 is always an indtis 
trial dispute. 

The wrong mention of a section or the omission to men 
tion a section is never material. What is material is tht 
nature of the dispute. The dispute is about the terminatior 
of service of J. C. Padhiar which is an individual dispute bu 
which can become an industrial dispute under Section 2A 
without the assistance of the Association ; and if the referenct 
was made on the espousal of the Association and that es 
pousal falls, the workman can always invoke the aid o; 
Section 2A. I am in respectful agreement with the viev 
expressed by the Madras High Court, and with all respec 
and in all humility, it appears that the Calcutta view is no 
the correct view of law, 

The issue is decided against the Bank. 

Issue No. 2 

The case, taken in paragraph 2 of the written statemen 
of the Bank, is that the dispute as mentioned in the reference 
is between the Bank and the United Commercial Bank Em 
ployccs Association, as will appear from the endorsemen 
of the reference to the Association, but the Association hai 
no right to espouse the cause of J. C. Padhiar as there vva 
no dispute about employment or non-employment in as mucl 
as the end of his services by efflux of time will not amoun 
to termination. The matter was, however, argued from wholb 
different aspects. 

The first aspect raised was that there is no community o 
interest between the Association and J. O. Padhiar. Then 
can be no doubt that it is the community of interest of th 
class as a whole which furnishes the real nexus between th 
dispute and the parties to the dispute. Even a single em 
ployee’s dispute may develop into an industrial dispute, whei 
it is taken up by a union or a number of workers who mak. 
a concerned demand for redress. But the community of interes 
does not depend on whether the concerned workman was 
member of the union or not at the date when the caus 
occurred, for, without his being a member, the dispute mu 
be such that other workmen by having a common interes 
therein would be justified in taking up the dispute as Ihei 
own and espouse it. J. C. Padhiar was an employee in th 
Bank. His demand for continued employment can be 
demand in which the other employees of the same Bank an. 
particularly in the same branch of the Bank, may hav 
common interest. Even before the insertion of Sec. 2A. it wa 
field in Western India Match Company 1 id, vs. Western Indi 
Match Co. Workers' Union, 1970 (II) LLJ/256 that the corn 
munity of interest did not depend on whether the workma 
was a member of the union, for, without his being a membei 



2, itm> 


3465 


! pt -rnrrsr : ftprau 24, 1977/wf^ 


t'ffiJi'lI — 3 ( ii ) ] 


the other workmen may make common cause with him. Sec- 
tion 2A has introduced a fiction to the effect that an indi- 
vidual dispute concerning discharge, dismissal, retrenchment 
or termination are to be deemed an industrial dispute not- 
withstanding that no other workmen or any union of work- 
men espouses the dispute. The requirement of espousal, there- 
fore, has lost its importance and relevance. The question is 
whether or not J. C. Padhiar had approached the Association 
for the espousal of his cause and whether or not the Asso- 
ciation had taken a decision that it should he espoused. 

J. C. Padhiar has deposed that when his services came to 
an end, he wrote a letter to the Association to raise a demand 
for his reinstatement and upon his move, the Secretary ol the 
Association wrote to the Bank about it, He, howevei, does 
not know if the Association passed any resolution for es- 
pousing his cause, I am not prepared to believe this statement 
of his because he has not tiled an office copy of the letter that 
he sent to the Association. He did not summon the original 
letter from the Association or the other relevant records and 
explained his failure by stating that the Association had 
submitted the records to its Head Office at Calcutta. However, 
he has no explanation as to why he did not summon the 
records from the Head Office. Again, he stated that the Asso- 
ciation look up Ihc matter with the management but there is 
no evidence to support it, No office bearer of the Association 
was called to prove this fact. The office copy of the demand 
made by the Association, was also not called. No document 
was summoned from the management also to prove that 
such a demand had been made by the Association. That 
being so, no industrial dispute was raised by the Association 
itself and consequently there was no collective dispute. 

However, an individual dispute was raised by J. C. Padhiar 
himself. He has deposed that he had taken lip his case with 
the management. This was denied by MW-1 Madan Mohan 
Batra, the Jamshedpur Branch Manager. He stuted that J. C. 
Padhiar had made no such demand upon him. He, however, 
admitted that he is not aware if he had made such a demand 
on the then Manager. It appears that a demand was made. 
J. C. Padhar wrote a letter to the Regional Officer on 
January 28, 1973, Ext. W-25 is the regislration receipt for 
the despatch of that letter. The Bank could have filed that 
letter to show that no demand was made. Ext. W-26 is a 
reply sent the fetter dated January 28, 1973. Ext. W-27 is 
a reply sent by J. C. Padhiar to Ext. W-26. It appears that 
J. C. Padhiar had raised the dispute. In short, therefore, even 
if it cannot be treated as a collective industrial dispute, his 
demand can certainly be treated as an individual dispute 
becoming an industrial dispute by the force of Section 2A. 

The issue is decided accordingly. 

Issues Nos. 3 and 4 

The plea taken by the Bank, in paragraph 2 of i;s wiillen 
statement, is that the United Commercial Bank Employees 
Association is not a Registered Trade Union and, therefore, 
it has no legal right to represent J. C. Padhiar before the 
Tribunal under section 36 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
The further plea taken in the same paragraph is that the 
Bank has no knowledge if J, C. Padhiar was a member of 
the Association on the date of tht reference as he had ceased 
to be an employee of tile Bank on June 13, 1972 and on 
that account also the Association is not competent to represent 
him in this Reference under the said section 36. 

WW-2 J. C. Padhiar has deposed that the United Commer- 
cial Bank Employees Association is a Registered Trade Union, 
with its Head Office at Calcutta and a Branch Office, namely, 
the unit office at Jamshedpur ; and lhat he was a member 
of the Jamshedpur Unit of Ihc Association. J am not inclined 
to place reliance upon his testimony. He has no recollection as 
to the date, month Hnd year when he became a member of 
the Association. He has no knowledge about the rate of 
membership subscription and whether it is annual or monthly. 
He stated that he paid a subscription of Rs. 7 /- only hut 
here again he was no recollection as to when he made the 
payment. He asserts that he was given a receipt but that has 
not been filed. It was suggested to him that he was not a 
member and never paid any subscription for it, but he denied 
that this was so. The certificate of registration of the Asso- 
ciation has not been tiled. Even the registration nurnbci is 
not known, No office bearer of the union was summoned (o 
produce the certificate of registration, or the mcinbci-bip 


register, or the subscription register or the counterfoils re- 
ceipt book. All these facts were specifically challenged bv the 
Bank and. therefore, a duty was cast upon J. C. Padhiar to 
prove his membership of the Association and the fact that it 
was a Registered Trade Union but, besides oral testimony, 
he took no step to summon the authentic records in proof 
of his assertion. I, therefore, hold that it has not been satis- 
factorily established that the United Commercial Bank Em- 
ployees Association is a Registered Trade Union or J. C. 
Padhiar is a member of any such Association, Section 36 
deals with the representation of parties. Clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) is to the effect that a workman who is a parly 
to a dispute shall be entitled to be represented in any pro- 
ceeding under the Act by any member of the Executive 
or other office bearer of a registered Trade Uni.'n of which 
he is a member. It has been held above that the Association 
is not a Registered Trade Union and it has also been held 
that J. C. Padhiar is not a member and, therefore, he is not 
entitled to he represented by any member of the Executive 
or other office bearer of the Association in the proceedings 
before me. 

Issues Nos, 3 and 4 me accordingly decided in favour 
of the Bank. 

Issue No. 5 

The question raised in Issue No. 5 is whether or not 
the general body of the United Commercial Bank Employees 
Association or its executive committee passed any resolution 
empowering the Secretary of the Association to represent .1, C. 
Padhiar in these proceedings under Sec. 36. 

It has been held in connection with another issue that 
J. C. Padhiar was not a member of the United Commercial 
Bank Employees Association and that Association is not 
authorised to represent him under section 36(1 )(a) and, 
therefore, this issue has become ledundant and no finding is 
required. 

Issue No. 6 

The individual dispute of the workman J. C. Padhiar was 
sponsored by the United Commercial Bank Employees Asso- 
ciation, Jamshedpur Unit and it is on the espousal of the 
Association that the Central Government made the present 
reference. N. P. Tripathi was to represent J. C. Padhiar in 
this reference in his capacity as the Secretary of the Associa- 
tion. He was, however, promoted as an Officer and resigned 
his membership of the Association. He also made an appli- 
cation on July 5, 1976 that because of his resignaiion, he 
has no authority left to appear on behalf of J. C. Padh’ar 
and will no longer represent him in the Tribunal. J. C. 
Padhiar also made an application on July 16, 1976 mentioning 
the nforesafiJ facts and requesting permission to represent his 
case himself or to appoint another authorised representative. 
The Bank, in paragraph 4 of its written statement, has raised 
the plea that since the Association has withdrawn its support 
from J. C. Padfiiar by the withdrawal of N. P. Tripathi from 
representation, the industrial dispute originally raised is no 
longer an industrial dispute and has, indeed, become an Indivi- 
dual dispute and the reference has become invalid. J. C. 
Padhiar, in paragraph 17 of his written statement-cum- 
rejoinder, has denied the validity of this pica and has con- 
tended that even though the Association may have lost interest 
in his case, he .is legally entitled to represent his own case and 
there can be no bar to that. There is no substance in the 
contention of the Bank. Tn Working lournalisls of the 
Hindu vs, the Hindu, 1961 (T) ET. 1.288, the Madras High 
Court observed : 

“It may be held that the jurisdiction of the Labour Court 
U> proceed with the matter whollv depends on whether the 
industrial dispute referred to it for adjudication existed or 
was apprehended on the date of the reference and not on 
any subsequent date. Having regard to the relevant 1 talutorv 
provisions, it must be held that the jurisdiction of the Labour 
Court to proceed with and adjudicate upon an industii.il 
disnute stems from and is sustained, until it makes an award 
and the same becomes enforceable, bv Ihe refeiencc itself 
wdiieh has been made on the basis of an industrial dispute 
existing or apprehended on the dale of the lcferemc and 
ihal the jurisdiction of the labour court to proceed in the 
matter is not in any wav affected by the fact that Milwepu n f 
lo the date of the reference, the woikers or a -aihstanluil 



34(,<, THF GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Pari II — Shc. 3(ii )] 


,eclion i >f them, who hutl originally sponsored the cause, hud 
uler resiled mid withdrawn lrom it ihe same question came 
jp before their Lordships oi the Supreme Court also in Hom- 
iny Union of Journalists vs. Hindu, 1961 (II) LLJ.436. In 
ionlirming the view of the Madias High Court, their I.otdships 
ielivered themselves thus : 

"In our view, these observations eoirectly set out the eileet 
ii a subsequent wihdiawal of support by the workmen of a 
;ausc picviously espoused by them. In each case in iiscer- 
:aining whether an individual dispute has acquired to ehaiucier 
jf an industiial dispute, the test is whether at the date of 
lie relerenee the dispute was taken up as supported by ihc 
inion of the woikmen of the employer against whom the 
lispulc is inised by an individual woikman or hy an appie- 
tiahle number of woikmen.’’ The same view was taken in 
Indian Cable Company Ltd. vs. Its Workmen, 1962 (I) LLJ. 
+09; Rawalpindi Victoiy I ransport Co, <P) Ltd. vs. Labour 
i.ourl, 1962 f I ) I I J. 552; kaittu Bus Service limited vs. 
ourdial Singh, 1963 (1) LU. 231 and Hinny Limited vs. 
Their Workmen, 1972 Lab. I.C. JJ4I. In Ihc instant case, the 
kssoeialion has not withdiawn its suppoit and what has 
happened is that its Sec) clary has icsignej from the Assoeia 
don and expressed his inability to leprescnt the workman 
n the proceedings belme me undei Sec. 36 of the Indusm.d 
Disputes Act. The industiial dispute remain; ns it was and 
;vcn if the Association itself decided to withdraw its support, 
by that fact the industrial dispute will not become an indivi- 
lual dispute, or cease to he an industrial dispuie. 

'1 lie issue is accordingly decided against the Bank. 

Issue No. 7 

I he plea taken by the Bank, in paragi uph 5 ot its written 
statement, is that J. C. Padhiar Inis authorised D. P. Roy, 
General Seevelaiy, All India United Commercial Bank Sr;. II 
Federation, lo represent him in the present proceedings bin 
lie has no locus standi to authorise him and D. P, Roy h..s 
no locus standi to jepre-ent him under section 36 of (tie 
Industrial Disputes Act. 

Section 36(1 1 deals with the representation of a workman 
in a proceeding under the Act. It says that a workman who 
is a party to a dispute shall be entitled to be leprescntcd in 
any piocecding under the Act by — 

(a) any member of the executive oi other oflice beurei 
of a registered trade union ot which he is a mem- 
ber ; 

(b) any member ul ihc executive oi other office hcnier 
of a federation of tiadc unions to which the trade 
union referred to in clause (a) is affiliated ; 

(c) where the worker is not a member ot any trade 
union, by an officer ot any trade union conuecicd 
with, pr by any other workman employed in, the 
industry in which the worker is employed and autho- 
rised in such manner as may be prescnbed. 

It lias been seen in connection with my findings on Issues 
Nos. 3 and 4 that the United Commercial Bunk Employees 
Association is not a registered trade union and J. C. Padhi.u 
vvas not a member of any such union. That being so. there 
can arise no question ot any affiliation of the United Com- 
mercial Bank Employees Association with the All India 
United Commercial Bank Stall Ecdeiulion and it follows that 
D. P. Roy cannot represent .T. C. Padhiar undei clause (hi 
of section 36(1). 

But where a woikman is not a member of any trade union, 
section 36(1 He) confeis the light upon such a workman lo 
be repiesented in any proceedings under the Acl by an officer 
of any trade union conuecicd \yth, or hy any olhci workman 
employed in, the industry in which lie is employed by autho- 
rising such a repie enlative in the prescribed manner. Consqu- 
ing the language of clause (c), it is manifest that it applies 
to the case ol a workman who is not a member of unv trade 
union, much less a registeied trad.' union. In othci wools, 
the light ol heuir irpicscnled loiiIcih..! hv elmsc let i iu\,ii 
lo a woikman who may lie oil lie r a m mlicr ol an un-icgist- ml 
trade union oi of no trade union at all. The case of I. C. 


Padhiar falls fuitly and squat ely within the ambit of clause 
(c). D. P. Roy, it is not denied, is an officer of a trade 
union, may be of a federation of trade unions, of this 
veiy Bank. This is clear from his evidence and there is 
nothing contrary to that. Even if he cannot represent ,1. C. 
Padhiar as an officer of the trade union, he is cerlnmly a 
woikman engaged in the Banking Industry and his case falls 
within the latter part of clause (c). I. C. Padhiar was also 
employed in the same Bank in which D. P. Roy was em- 
ployed. Both of them are employees in the same Industry 
and, therefore, clause (c) confers a light upon J. C. Padhiar 
to authorise D. P. Roy lo represent him and D. P. Roy gets 
an authority to represent him by the fact of authorisation 
under law. The representative of the Bank, however, argued 
that the auhorisation must be in ihc prescribed manner and 
since the authorisation made by I. C. Padhiar is not in the 
prescribed manner, D. P. Roy is not legally entitled to repre- 
sent him. Rule 36 of the Industrial Disputes (Central) Rules 
says that the authority in favour of a person to lepiesenl 
a workman in any proceeding undei the Act shall be in 
Form F. The authority given by .1. O. Padhiar reads : “with 
leference to the above case, I like to infoim you that I 
authorise Mr. D. P. Roy, General Secretary, All India, 
U. C, Bank Stall Federation, 2, India Exchange Place, Cal- 
cutta-1 to represent my ease before the Court." The leltor ol 
authoiity is not signed by D. P. Roy in token or acceptance. 
Nor has he tiled any separate letter ot acceptance. However, 
there are two applications dated October 14, 1976 in which 
he claims to he the authorised representaivc of .1. C. Padhiar. 
Form F is slightly in different lorm than the authoiity letter 
issued by J. C. Padhiar as the Form mentions that the 
recipient of the authority should sign in token of acceptance. 

I think that the provisions of Rule 36 arc mandatory when 
read with clause (c) of section 36(1' and non-compliance 
will render the authority invalid. In the circum lances, D. P. 
Roy has no authority at present to represent J. C. Padhiar. 
This docs not, however, mean that he cannot appear in 
future if J. C. Padhiar gives him n Iresh letlei of aulhoiity 
in accordance with Form F. 

The representative of the Rank further nrgued that I he 
industrial dispuie in question is a collective dispute and, there- 
fore, the union which has sponsored the dispute can alone 
represent J. C. Padhiar and T. C. Padhiar has no light tc 
represent the ease cither himself or through an authorised re- 
presentative under clause (c). Reliance for this proposition 
of Invv was placed upon Ram Prasad Vishwakarmu vs Indus- 
trial Tribunal, 196 f (I) ELL 504. In that case, their Lordships 
of the Supreme Court held : 

“It is now well-settled that dispute between an individua' 
workman and an employer cannot be an industrial dispuie as 
defined in Section 2( k > of Ihe Industrial Dispulcs Act unless i; 
is taken up by a union of the workmen or hy a considerable 
number of workmen. . . .The necessary corollaiy lo this is thn 
Ihe individual workman is at no stage a party to the industria 
dispute independently of the union. The union or those work 
men who have hy their sponsoring turned the individual clis 
putc into an industrial dispute, can therefore claim lo have ; 
say in ihe conduct of the proceeding before the TtibunalV’ 
Iheir Lordships proceeded to say that “while it will he unwisi 
and indeed impossible to try to lay down a general rule ii 
the matter, the ordinary i ule should in our opinion, he lha 
such represcnlaiion hv an olliee of the Iradc union shouli 
continue throughout the proceedings in the absence of excep 
tional circumstances which may justify the tribunal to pmu-' 
other representation of the workmen concerned". Their Loid 
ships did not lay down any hard and last rule Their Lordship 
only held that ordinarily the individual workman should lie 
be permitted to he represented by a pciqon oilier lhan hi 
union representative hut the rule can be relaxed in sr'ccia 
circums’ances. In Ram Piasad’s case, (he union had filed th 
written statement oti behalf of Ihe workman and npto certai 
Stage, he was represented by an officer of Ihe union; and 
was only at a subsequent stage thin he made an application fo 
a different representation. The law laid down hy their Lordshir 
of the Supreme Court was followed hv the Calcutta Hie 
Court in Rajdeo Piosad State of West Bengal l l| 62 F 
I 1,1. 6 1 it and hy the Patna High Court in Dr. Chandin Rah, 
Jha vs Sone Valley Pori I m.l Cemenf Co. I id . 1962 III) 
I I I 1 75 and auain in Lanai I liaiuha (inneiily vs Piesiding 
I'Hii’cl, PC] 1 ib ).( i(iU, In the in-lain case luViec was 
i ned to N. P Iripnili Secretary, United Commercial Bank 
Employees Association but he informed llle Tribunal that he 



['ffT'T II — iTrt .! ( ii )] TT HATT 


*1k« 1 resigned from the Assm-iaH m and IiaiJ v i'hdi .• >* n fi°m 
i (.pi esiMll .ii i< "i hi Mil- case ll r- .1 case. tlivuli'ii , v.luic tin 
union which Ijod sponsored die cast! is Inking no inlcu'sl lit .ill. 

In Ram L’tos.id’s case, anti in ilie other eases cited above, the 
union continued to represent the workmen. It is a fit ease, 
therefore, in which the Tribunal should peunit J. I’.idhiai 
to lake the benefit of clause le). 

Besides, a party has always a right to represent himself. 
That right is undoubtedly an etTeelivc right, a fundamental 
light and, as remarked in the ease of Alembic Chemii al Works 
Co. Ltd. vs. P. D Vyas, 1054 fl) I I I. 148 a denial of that 
right is denial of justice. See also Printer (Mysore) (Pvt.) Limi- 
ted vs. I abour C ourt, 1960(1) T LJ. 201 Bihar loiiinahs! I til. 
vs. H K. ChntldhuiT, 1966 (I) I I J. 789 and General Secictniy 
Engineering Staff Union vs. Indian Hume Pipe Company I td. 
1967 (!) LLJ. 139. I. C- Padhiar has contended that he has 
two options namely, to treat the dispute as a collective dispute 
in which case he can resort to section 36(il(c) by appointing 
D. P. Roy to leprescnt him, or he can treat it as an individual 
dispute under Sec. 2A and to represent it himself or to 
authorise D. P. Roy under Section 36(i)(c). T think his con- 
tention is well founded. 

My finding is that the present representation of J. C. Padhiar 
by D. P Roy is bad because the Idler of authority is not in the 
prescribed manner and further because D. P. Roy has not 
accepted the authority by signing the let’ ter in token of accep- 
tance. It is open to j, C. Padhiar to remove this defect by a 
fresh letter of authority. In any case, it is open to him to re- 
present himself. 

The issue is decided in the manner indicated above. 

■ s* (tissue No. 8 

The question i fused in this issue is whether or not the All 
India United Commercial Bank Staff Federation passed arty 
resolution for the representation of J. C. Padhiar under Section 
36. 

It has been found on another issue that the United Com- 
mercial Bank Staff Federation is not entitled to represent 
I C. Padhiar under Section 36(i)(h). In the light of that 
finding, this issue has become redundant and requires no 
finding. 

Issue No, 9 

The plea taken by the Bank, in porn graph 2 of its written 
statement, is that J. C. Padhiar used to be given temporary 
employment for limited periods from time to time and when 
the last term expired by efflux of time, he ceased to be a 
workman within the meaning of Section 2(sl of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and us such the reference is bad because there 
can he a reference only in respect of an industrial dispute 
raised by a workman and not by a person who is not a 
workman. 

Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act says that “work- 
man" means any person (including an apprentice) employed in 
any industry to do any skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory, 
technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms 
of employment be expressed or implied, and for the purposes 
of any pioceeding under this Act in relation to an industrial 
dispute, includes any such person who has been dismissed, dis- 
charged or retrenched in connection with, or as a consequence 
of (hat dispute, or whose dismissal, discharge or retrenchment 
has led to that dispute, but does not include any such person — . 

fi) who is subject to any Army Actrn or the Air 

Force Act or the Navy (Discipline) Act, 

or 

(ii) who is employed in the police service or as an officer 

or other employee ol a prison, or 

(iii) who is employed mainly in a managerial or admints- 

Iralive capacity; or 

(iv) who, being employed in a supervisory capacity, draws 

wages exceeding five bundled rupees per mensem or 
exeicises, either by the nature of duties attached to 
the office oi by reason of the powers vested in him. 
functions mainly of a managerial nature. 

The definition of the term "workman” is in three pails The 
fi'ri part of the definition gives ihc statutory meaning of 


fl l-HI wf. 1 4 7 7/snfirt|T 2, 1 8 9 9 3d 67 


workman 1 ’he r :cnnd part h i !-• M a in include something 
mole ihan what ibr him puui.uilx di notes and the lluul 
part specifically excludes ihe cu.Lgoucx ot poisons specified 
in clauses (i) to (iv). Looking to the words in clause fs), it 
is clear that there arc Ihe following classes of persons who 
fall within the definition — 

(1) a person employed in any industry, 

(2) any such person who has been discharged, dismissed 

or retrenched in connection wi h or ns a consequence 
of the dispute, and 

(3) whose dismissal, dischmge or letrenchment has led lo 
Ihe dispute. 

Ttie last (wo categories of persons aie workmen in addition 
to the first category, lor, it is a well-settled rule of construc- 
tion that a pait of a definition which is an inclusive definition 
as to the persons ivl.itu.g to whom a definition is given, other 
persons who otherwise would not be included, would be in- 
cluded. In this view. I. C. Padhiar would be a workman fall- 
ing in the first and third categories for lie was a person em- 
ployed in an industry and whose non employment has led 
to present di-.pu e. In I’. 1 Muyekar vs, Amiehand Narayan. 

1956 (f) LLI, 492, it was held that a woikram as defined in 
section 2fs) meant any person who was employed at any time 
in an indiistiy. It was further field that if he is specified in the 
definition of "workman” then whether he can raise an indus- 
trial dispute or not must be judged hv the definition of “in- 
dustrial dispute" given in section 2tk) of the Act. A person, 
therefore, who is dismissed or whom his employer declinea 
to employ prior to the date when the dispute relating to his 
dismissal or non-employment is referred to by ihc Govern- 
ment, is a workman within the meaning of Section 2(s) of 
the Act. In Santa Crti7 — Kalina and Malad — Marwa Bus 
Service vs. their Workmen, 1954 (ll) LLI. 446, it was held 
that a discharged or dismissed employee can raise an indus- 
trial dispute relating to his non-employment. The same view 
was followed in R. K Iyengar vs. Calcutta Chromotype Ltd., 

1957 (I) LLI. 565. 

The representative of the Bank contended that I. C. Pndhiui 
was neither dismissed nor discharged nor retrenched and, 
therefore, he is not covered by the inclusive part of the defini- 
tion, The word "discharge" has not been defined by the Act. 
It is a teim of wide amplitude which would mean to idee 
from a charge, or to relieve from a charge or even to dis- 
miss. There can be no denying (he fact lhat 1. C. Padhiar 
ceased to be in employement and (hut was the result of the 
fact that he was relieved of his charge. 11 is immaterial as to 
Ihc manner in which this was brought about, but it was dis- 
charge all the same. I, therefore, hold that J. C. Padhiar is a 
“workman”, within the meaning of Section 2(s) of the In- 
dustrial Disputes Act. 

The issue is decided against the Bank. 

Issue No. 10 

The plea taken by the Bank, in paragraph 7 of its written 
statement, is that L C. Padhiar ceased to be a workman on 
iune 13, 1972 and took payment of his salary without any pro- 
test and he is, therefore, estopped from challenging the cessa- 
tion of his service. The plea taktn, in- paragraph 9 of the 
written statement, is that there were two conciliation proceed- 
ings which ended on August 17, 1973 and October 22, 1973 
respectively During the course of the first conciliation proceed- 
ings, the Assistant Labour Commissioner reported as folows : 

“It was pointed out to the union representative by the Assis- 
tant Labour Commissioner that since the services of the 
workman already terminated in Iune 1972 there can not be 
any dispute for rcgularisation of his service. The union is 
convinced mid withdrawn the case.” It was contended that in 
view of the withdrawal of the case from the conciliation pro- 
ceedings. J. C. Padhiar is fur her estopped from challenging 
his cessation now and the reference is not maintainable on that 
account. 

The Bank has taken no steps to produce a certified copy 
of the report submitted by the As,', Labour Commissioner 
in connection with the first conciliation proceedings, The Bank 
has also not examined any witness to prove that there were 
(wo and not only one conciliation proceeding or to prose as 
lo_ what transpired in Ihc proceedings. The allegation con- 
fiiincd in the written statement has thus remained mere allega- 
tion. without pi oof. Tn .my case, the trend in iccent decisions 



3468 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVTNA 2, 1899 


[Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


is that application of technical rules such as res judicata, 
acquiescnce, estoppel etc. arc not an propria ir to industrial ad- 
judication. In Guest Keen Williams tl >v -.) I td. \s. Stciling 
195y (11) I LJ. *U)5, it was obsetved that industrial tribunals 
should be slow and circumspect in applying technical prin- 
ciples such as acquiescence and estoppel. See also Shnhdara. 
(Delhi) — Saharan pur Light Railway Company 1 id., vs. Shah- 

ttara Sahnranpur Railway Workers' Union, 1969 (I) LIT. 734. 

Reference can also be made to Workmen of Subong Tea Estate 
vs Subong Tea Estate, 1964 (1) ll.J, 333 and Htnd Strip 
Mining Corporation Ltd. vs. Raj Kishore Prasad, 1967 (I) 
LLJ 108. In the last iwo cases, a technical plea was raised 
that the workmen were estopped from challenging the validity 
of their retrenchments as they had accepted retrenchment 
compensations and it was held that such technical pleas are 
not generally entertained in industrial adjudications. The mere 
fact that J. C. Padhiar accepted payment of his salary on 
June 12, 1972 will not disentitle him from subsequently raising 
a dispute for continued employment. The law conferred on 
him that light and there can be no estoppel against the statute. 
Likewise, assuming that he had withdrawn his case front the 
conciliation prececdings, that fact alone will not amount to 
estoppel from raising a dispute. 

The issue is decided against the Bank 

ISSUE NO. II 

The plea raised, in paragraph 8 of the written statement 
of the Bank, is that the services of J. C. Padhiar were purely 
temporary and he never became permanent and since there 
was no condition of service conferring on him a right to 
claim continued employment there is no industrial dispute 
within the meaning of Section 2(k). 

Section 2 (k ) defines “industrial dispute” as meaning any 

dispute or difference between employers and workmen 

which Is connected with the employment or non-em- 
ployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions 
of labour of any person, The definition cun be divided into 
three parts, namely, — (1) the factum of dispute, (2) parties 
to dispute, which includes employers and workmen, and (3) 
subject-matter of the dispute, i,e„ the dispute should be 
connected with (i) employment or non-employment, or tii) 
terms of employment, or (iii) the conditions of labour. The 
key words of the definition are “dispute” and “difference”, 
namely, a controversy connected with employment or non- 
employment or with the terms of employment etc. in respect 
of which the parties are directly interested in maintaining 
their respective contentions. There is certainly a difference 
between the Bank and J. C. Padhiar us they are sticking to 
their respective contentions about the points in dispute. The 
Bank’s stand-point Is that J. C. Padhiar was temporary em- 
ployment from time to time and when the hist extension 
came to an end, his appointment came to an automatic end. 
J. C. Padhiar’s case is that he had served for a total period 
of 301 days and had become eligible for permanent absorp- 
tion in terms of the Bank’s circular letter. Whether or not, 
J. C. Padhiar’s contention is correct, is a matter which can 
be decided on merits hut it cannot be said that there is no 
dispute or difference between him and the Bank. He was 
in employment of the Bank and is not in employment since 
June 13, 1972. The dispute is. therefore, regarding “non- 
employment.” The dispute is also in respect of the' “terms 
of employment” on the question of permanent absorption 
under the circular letter. The words "employment or non- 
employment” arc words of the widest amplitude and have 
been put in juxta position to make the definition thoroughly 
comprehensive. In Western Tnd.ia Automobile Association 
vs. Industrial Tribunal, 1949 LLJ. 245, the Federal Court 
discussed the import of these words and para-phrased the 
definition as “any dispute which has connection with the 
workmen being in, or out of service or employment.” I am 
of the view, therefore, that there is an industrial dispute. 

The issue is decided against the Bank. 

ISSUE NO. 12 

Sri R. K. Mukherjee and Sri D. P. Roy appeared before 
the Tribunal on December 27, 1976 to represent J. C Padhiar 
under Section 36. Admittedly. Sri R. K, Mukherjee is an 
Advocate, Sri Arun Ray, the Bank’s representative, im- 
mediately raised an objection to (he appearance of Sri R K 
Mukherjee. Sri D. P. Roy threupon took the stand that 
Srt R. K. Mukherjee was entitled to appear because he was 
an Honorary member of the All India United Commercial 


Bank Staff Federation, a fact which was seriously challenged 
by Sri Arun Ray. The evidence of Sri D. P. Roy was, 
therefore, recorded. He deposed that Sri R, K. Mukherjee 
was an Honorary member of the Federation. Honorary 
membership is permitted by clause (e) of Section 6 of the 
Trade Unions Act, 1926. Sri D. F Roy deposed that Hono- 
rary members can be admitted to the Federation by its Exe- 
cutive Committee and subsequently the membership has to 
be approved by the general body. No papers, however, 
were filed by him to show that Sri R. K. Mukherjee had 
been admitted as an Honorary member by the Executive 
Committee and his membership has been confirmed by the 
general body. On the next date of hearing, Sri Roy produced 
two papers which are minutes of meetings held on November 
14, 1975 and May 30, 1976. The originals were not pro- 
duced and no attempt was made to prove the filed documents 
in any other manner also. Assuming them to be genuine, 
these papers show that the Executive Committee accepted him 
as an Honorary member on November 14. 1975 and the 
Executive Committee itself confirmed him us such on May 
30, 1976, Sri R. K. Mukherjee was thus not confirmed by 
the general body but by the Executive Committee itself. 
Besides, it has been found elsewhere that the All Tndia United 
Commercial Bank Staff Federation is itself not entitled to 
represent J. C. Padhiar and, therefore, neither Sri D. P. Boy 
in his capacity as General Secretary nor Sri R, K. Mukherjee 
as an Honorary member can represent J. C. Padhiar. Section 
36(1 )(b) says that a workman can be represented by a 
member of the Executive Committee or by some office 
bearer of the Federation and not by an TJonorary member. 
There is nothing to show that Sri R. K. Mukherjee is a 
member of the Executive Committee of the Federation or 
he is an office bearer within the meaning of clause (b) of 
Section 2 of the Trade Unions Act which says that “office 
bearer" in the case of a Trade Union includes any member 
of the Executive thereof, but does not Include any auditor. 
Sri D. P. Roy has not shown as to in what manner Sri 
R. K. Mukherjee is an office bearer. Tt is not necessary, 
therefore, to enter into the question whether Sri R. K. 
Mukherjee has been authorised by means of a resolution to 
represent J. C. Padhiar before me. 

The issue is decided in favour of the Bank. 

11. Having decided the various legal issues in the pro- 
ceedings, I will now take up the decision of the remaining 
matters in the reference. 

12. The first question is as to what is the method adopted 

by the Bank for recruitment of permanent employees, The 
Saslry Award suggested in para 493 “that Banks in their 
own interests should, in case of a reasonable number of 
vacancies, advertise them Hnd then make appointments after 
passing the candidates through such tests as they may consider 
necessary.” Since the recruitment policy of Banks did not 
fall within the ambit of (he terms of reference of the 
National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) presided over 
by Justice Desai, his award, vide para 23.28 mentions that 
he had no jurisdiction to entertain he demands in connection 
therewith : and declines to give any directions in this 
regard. The Bank’s recruitment policy is not different from 
the provisions contained In the Sastry Award. M. V. Sonal- 

kar MW-2 has deposed that when the Bank wants to recruit 

clerical staff on a permanent basis, advertisements are issued 
in Newspapers and notices are circulated in the branches of 
the Bank, inviting applications for various posts. These 
applications are screened to sort out candidates eligible for 
written test. The written test is then held, and one paper is 
set for English and second for arithmetic, each carrying 
50 marks. A candidate must obtain 40 per cent of marks 
in each paper and an aggregale of 50 per cent in the two 
lo become qualified to be called at the viva-voce or oral 

test. Those who have qualified at the written test are called 

For the interview. Such of the candidate as qualify at both 
the tests, are then empanelled in order of merit ; and ap- 
pointments are made, as and when a vacancy occurs, 
strictly in order of merit. This evidence has remained un- 
controverted. Padhiar has not said a word that there is 
any different method of recruitment. I, therefore, hold thut 
the Bank recruits permanent employees in the manner, stated 
above. 

12. The next question is as to whether Padhiar ever 
appeared at any such test and ever qualified thereat. He has 
deposed as WW-1 that at the time of his initial appointment 
in limitary, 1971, he had appeared in such a test and was 
given the appointment after he had qualified at that test. 



3469 


I'lTPT If — .<( ii )] 




ITRTT TT Trm : fwF 1M, 1 977/srrfanr 2 , 1 8(1(1 


M. y, Sonjlk.u MW-2 li.i'. denied Ibis (act ,md staled ili.il 
no test whatsoever was held, and. as a matter ot fact, a 
Hraneh Manager, which office he held at Jamshedpur aL the 
innteiinl time, had no nnlhorily to hold a test for recntit- 
nicrii of employees for permanent absorption. According to 
him ; what happened was that there wete 3 or 4 candidates 
fur temporary appointment and since he was tillable to 
lodge which one to appoint, he pul 2 or 3 questions in 
writing to enable him to come to « decision as to whom 
to appoint, lie fu'hcr deposed that it was wrong to say 
that it was a regular test or Padhiar had stood first at any 
such tesl and that the appointment was given to him not 
because he had qualified at any test hut because he was 
immediately available, as he was residing at Jamshedpur, 
while the other 2 or 3 were not readily available and Ihe 
temporary vacancy requited immediate filling up. He has 
then gone on lo depose that written and viva-vdee test was 
actually held at Dhanbad in May 1971. Padhiar made an 
application Ext. M-35 in the prescribed form for permission 
to appear at the lest at Dhanbad and his Roll No. was 94. 
He actually appeared at the test but, as the result-sheet 
Ext. M-36 would show he failed to qualify at the written 
lest and consequently he was ineligible to be called for the 
viva-voce tesl. E-.l. M-36 shows that he had obtained 9 
marks in English i.e , less than 40 per cent mark; 18 marks 
in Arithmetic, which was also less than 40 per cent; 27 
marks in total which was less than 50 per cent aggregate, 
and th til he had failed at the written test. Padhiar does not 
deny his appearance at the Dhanbad test. It is apparent that 
if he had qualified at the written test and at a viva-voce 
teal at Jamshedpur in January 1971, he would not have 
appeared at the Dhanbad test in May 1971. No one 
will appear at a successive examination if he had passed 
an earlier examination. Padhiar attempted to explain this 
away by saving that it was his privilege to appear at such 
tests ad infinitum and no one could prevent him from 
appearing. This is hardly a convincing explanation. It appears 
to me that his pies (hat there was a regular lest at Jamshed- 
pur is unit tie. He does not say that a written test was 
followed by viva-voce, and it is these two which arc con- 
stituent parts of the test. It appears that Sonalkar had to 
choose one from a batch of 3 or 4 and he only judged their 
primn-facie worth by an informal test. Padhiar cannot, there- 
fore, claim that he was selected in January 1971 for 

permanent absorption on the basis of a regular test. 

13. The next question is as lo the nature of his appoint- 
ment, i.e., whether notwithstanding non-qualification at any 
test, he was given a permanent employment against a 
permanent vacancy, or a temporary employment against a 
permanent vacancy, or a temporary employment for a fixed 
duration or against a leave vacancy, even though in the 
absence on leave of a permanent employee. Ext. M. 1 (same 
ns W-l) is the first letter of appointment, [t appears that 
Padhiar had come to know about a vacancy and made an 
application for appointment on January 25. 1971. Ext. M-l 
says "with reference to your application dated 25-1-1971 

we have pleasure in appointing you as a temporary clerk 

from 28-1-1971 lo 20-2-1971 Your appointment will 

be on a purely temporary basis and is liable to be termi- 
nated at any lime in the Bank’s discretion without any 

notice or salary thereof If you accept the above 

offer, please return Ihe duplicate of this letter duly signed in 
token of such acceptance.” This temporary appointment was 
extended from 21-2-1971 to 24-3-1971 on the same terms 
and conditions and he was again asked to return the duplicate 
in loken of his acceptance. See Ext. M-2 which is the same 
as b\l. W-2. Ext. M-3 (W-3) shows that he was relieved 
‘tom his service in the afternoon of March 24, 1971, It 
appears that Padhiar made a fresh application Ext. M-32 on 
13-4-71 and was appointed by Ext. M-4 (Ext. W-4) dated 
13-4-71 as a temporary clerk from 13-4-71 lo 30-4-71 on 
Ihe same terms and conditions as have been referred to above 
in connection with Ext, M-l. This term was extended from 
1-3-71 lo 7-5-71 by Ext. M-5 (W-5) : from 8-5-71 to 20-5-71 
by Ext. M-6 fW-6). and from 21-5-71 to 30-5-71 by Ext, 
M-7 fW-7) on the same terms and conditions. He was 
relieved in the afternoon of May 30, 1971 by Ext. M-8 (W-8) 
There was a break of 7 days thereafter, Padhiar made 
another application Ext. M-33 on 7-6-71 for a fresh appoint- 
ment and he was appointed ns temporary clerk from 7-6-71 
lo 21-6-71 by Ext. M-9 (W-9) on the same terms and con- 
ditions as are mentioned in Ext. M-l and M-4 This term 
was extended from 22-6-71 to 24-6-71 by Ext M-10 (W-10) 
and From 25-6-71 to 26-6-71 by Ext. M-l I (W-ll) He 

80 GT/77- 9 


was relieved in the afternoon of 26-6-71 hy Ext, M-12 
(W-12). It then appears dial he made yet another applica- 
tion on 5-10-71 after a break of a few months for a fresh 
appointment. He was given an appointment as a temporary 
clei k on the basis of that application from 5-10-71 to 5-11-71 
by J-At- M-l 3 (W-3). Ext. M-14 (W-14) shows that he was 
relieved in the afternoon of 5-11-71. He made yet another 
application for a fresh (emporaty appointment on 5-1-72. 
Ext. M-15 (W-15) shows that he was given the appointment 
as a temporary clerk front 5-1-72 to 20-1-72. The terms 
and conditions are the same as mentioned in Ext. M-l, 
M-4 and M-9. The term was extended from 21-1-72 to 
4-2-72 by Ext, M-16 (W-16) ; from 5-2-72 to 19-2-72 by 
Ext. W- 17, ; from 20-2-72 to 5-3-72 by Ext. W-18 ; from 

6- 3-72 to 20-3-72 by Ext. M-l 7 (W-l 9) and from 21-3-72 to 
4-4-72 by Ext. M-19 (W-21). It then appears that he made 
another application on 20-4-72 for a fresh temporary ap- 
pointment. Ext. M-20 (W-22) shows that he was given the 
appointment of a temporary clerk from 20-4-72 to 19-5-72 
on the terms and conditions mentioned ill Ext. M-l, MM, 
M-9 and M-13. The term was extended from 20-5-72 to 
12-6-72 by Ext. M-21 (W-23). Ext. M-22 (W-24) shows 
that he was relieved on 12-6-72 in the afternoon and no 
appointment was given to him after that date. The above 
narration will show that Padhiar was given appointments 
from time to time ; sometime in continuation ; at times 
after break ; the appointments were for limited periods ; 
the appointments were as a temporary clctk; and every 
time he accepted the imposed terms and conditions. The 
Bank’s case is that all these appointments were against leave 
vacancies as a purely temporary measure whereas Padhiar’s 
case is that the appointments were undoubtedly temporary 
but these were against permanent vacancies and not against 
leave vacancies. The Bonk has produced the leave records 
of various permanent employees. Ext. M-24 is in respect 
of Basudev Bhovvmick, Ext. M-25 in respect of Mrs. 
P. S. Indira, Ext. M. 26 in respect of Mrs. Yogambal 
Parasuraman, Ext. M-27 in respect of 1,. S. Gopalakrishnan, 
Ext. M-28 in respect of Mrs. Santham Narnynaswamy. Elxt. 
M-29 in respect of T, N. Upadhaya, Ext. M-30 in respect 
of K. C. Dave and Ext. M-31 in respect of N. P. Trlpathi. 
Madan Mohan Balra MW-1 has deposed that Mrs. Santham 
Naraynaswamy was on leave from 25-1-71 to 5-3-71 ; T. N. 
Upadhaya from 11-3-71 to 20-3-71; 1„ S. Gopalakrishnan 
from 22-3-71 to 5-5-71 ; Mrs. P. S, Indira from 5-4-71 to 

7- 5-71: K. C. Dave from 20-4-71 to 9-5-71; B. N. Bhow- 
mick from 7-5-71 to 17-5-71 ; N. P. Tripathi from 5-6-71 
to 24-6-71 ; Mrs. Santham Naranaswamy from 6-10-71 to 
31-3-72; Mrs Yogambal Parasuraman from 18-11-71 to 
21-12-71 and from 3-1-72 to 5-6-72. He has further deposed 
that this statement of his is based on the leave records 
Exts. M-24 to M-31 and the Attendance Register Ext. M-23, 
When one looks into the relevant pages of the Attendance 
Register or the leave records, there is no doubi left that 
the oral testimony of M. M. Batra is amply corroborated 
hy the contemporary documents kept in the regular course 
of business. M. V. Sonalkar MW-2 is the next witness on 
the nature of the various appointments given to Padhiar 
from time to time, whether in continuation or after breaks. 
He was the Branch Manager of the Jamshedpur Branch in 
a major portion at the material time. He has deposed that 
his appointments were in leave vacancies. As against their 
oral evidence, Padhiar as WW-2 has deposed that his appoint- 
ments were against permanent vacancies but the Bank never 
appointed him as a permanent emplolyce against these per- 
manent vacancies and he had to take up his grievance with 
the Regional Manager, Patna and the Head Office at Cal- 
cutta but he was not favoured with a reply by either of 
them. 


14, Now, there are several reasons why I am of the view 
that Padhiar’s appointment was always temporary, even 
though against a vacancy created by the absence on leave 
of a permanent employee. Eirstly, the various letters of 
appointment indicate that (i) the appointments were for 
limited periods, (ii) they were alwny s revocable even during 
the period of the appointments, (iii) the revocation was ab- 
solutely at (he discretion of the Bank, and (iv) Padhiar always 
accepted these- as terms and conditions of his various appoint- 
ments. No one is appointed as a permanent employee for a 
limited period ; no permanent employee’s service is revoc- 
able in the discretion of the employer ; and no permanent 
employee- can be given a break or breaks from time to time 
at the whim of the employer. Ext, M-37 is the standard form 



3470 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Part II— Sec. 3(ii)] 


of an appointment letter of a permanent employee. It men- 
tions that such an appointment is made after a written test 
and interview; the employees are kept on probation for six 
months ; confirmation depends on satisfactory work during 
the period of probation ; there is a provision for deposit 
of security for due and faithful performance of duties etc. 
etc. These are different in various aspects from the terms 
and conditions of service of a temporary employee ; and the 
difference will appear from a comparison of Ext. M-37, with 
the temporary appointment letter Ext. M-l, Secondly, when 
does a permanent vacancy arise 7 It would arise in the case 
of superannuation, compulsory retirement due to physical 
imbecility or infirmity etc., promotion, resignation or death 
etc. It is true that the vacancies were created against perma- 
nent posts but flic permanent incumbents have not been 
shown to have superannuated, compulsorily retired, promoted 
and confirmed, resigned or died, So the vacancies were 
temporary against permanent posts and the appointment were 
temporary against permanent posts. Padhiar had even to admit 
that he was never appointed permanently. Indeed, Ext. M-34 
shows that Padhiar was appointed in a leave vacancy of 
N. P. Tripalhi. Moreover, the management is in a better 
position to know about the nature of vacancies than Padhiar 
and 1 see no reason why the reliable evidence of two Branch 
Managers should be discarded in preference to the interested 
evidence of Padhiar, Padhiar had admitted in Ext. TV-27 that 
he had always been working from time to time in temporary 
appointments. Thirdly, when we look to the definition of 
‘■permanent employee", “probationer", and “temporary em- 
ployees”, it will at once appear that Padhiar’s case in covered 
by the definition of “temporary employee”. The Sustry 
Award defined the term “permanent employee" as 
meaning “an employee who has been appointed 

as such by the Bank”. See para 508(a) : 'proba- 

tioner” as meaning “an employee who is provisionally em- 
ployed to fill a permanent vacancy or post and has not been 
made permanent or confirmed in service." See para 508(b). 
Obviously Padhiar was not appointed by the Bank as a 
permanent employee as such ; nor was he appointed over to 
fill a permanent vacancy or post but only to fill a temporary 
vacancy caused by the absence of a permanent employee 
and such absence cannot be called a permanent vacancy. 
“Temporary employee” has been defined as “an employee who 
has been appointed for a limited period for work which is 
of an essentially temporary nature, or who is employed tem- 
porarily as an additional employee in connection with a 
temporary increase in work of a permanent nature.” The 
Desai Award has adopted the definitions contained in the 
Sasti v Award in respect of th ■ terms “nermanent employee" 
and “probationer” but has departed slightly from the defi- 
nition of "temporary employee” as contained in the Sastry 
Award. The Desai Award has added the words “an includes 
an employee other than a permanent employee who is 
appointed in a temporary vacancy of a permanent workman" 
at the end of the definition in the Sasti y Award, The defini- 
tion has undergone a further change in the Bi-partite Settle- 
ment between certain Banking Companies and their work- 
men, to which (he Bank and its workmen were also parties. 
This settlement was arrived at on the 19lh October, 1966 
and is still in force vide para 27.7. The present definition 
of the term “temporary employee" is given in para 20.7 aj 
“a workman who has been appointed for a limited period 
for work which is of an essentially temporary nature or who 
is employed temporarily as an additional workman in con- 
nection with a temporary increase in work of a permanent 
nature and includes a workman .other than a permanent 
workman who is appointed in a temporary vacancy caused 
by the absence of a particular permanent workman." Padhiar’s 
cane is covered by the latter part of the definition as a work- 
man other than a permanent workman who was appointed 
from time to time temporary vacancies caused by the 
absence of particular permanent workmen. The result is that 
Padhiar was never appointed as a permanent employee and 
his various appointments were on purely temporary basis for 
limited periods in temporary vacancies caused by the absence 
of permanent employees, 

15. Padhiar’s case is that he was eligible for adsorption 
as a permanent employee in terms of para 20.8 to 20.12. 
Para 20.8 says that “a temporary workman may also be 
appointed to fill a permanent vacancy provided that such 
temporary appointment shall not exceed a period of three 
months during which the Bank shall make arrangements for 
filling up the vacancy permanently. If such a temporary 
workman is eventually sorted for filling up the vacancy, 


the period of such temporary employment will be taken iido 
account as part of his probationery period.” Undoubtedly 
Padhiar was a temporary workman but he was not appointed 
to fill a permanent vacancy. His appointment was to fill a 
temporary vacancy. Much stress was laid on the provision 
that such appointment will not exceed a period of three 
months. Assuming, that it exceeded three months, nothing 
turns upon that because firstly the appoinment wan not 
to fill a permanent vacancy and secondly because the period of 
three months is like a breathing time given to the Bank to make 
arrangements for filling up the vacancy permanently. This 
breathing time can be used only if there is a permanent 
vacancy requiring filling up ; or otherwise the period of three 
months will be irrelevant if there is no such vacancy requir- 
ing filling up. The advantage that a workman gets is reduc- 
tion in the period of probation provided he is eventually 
selected to fill up the permanent vacancy. Padhiar was not 
eventually selected. It has been mentioned above that he 
had failed to qualify at the written test in May 1971 and 
was not even called for interview that followed the test. 
Para 20.9 applies to a temporary workman who was in the 
employment of the Bank on June 1, 1965 or after June 1, 
1965 but ceased to be in service before October 19. 1966. 

It is in the case of such an employee that on his applying 
to the Bank before 18-1-67 for employment that the Bank 
was under an obligation to employ him as a confirmed 
workman irrespective of his qualifications provided he 
satisfied two conditions, namely, that he did not fall within 
the definition of “temporary employee” and that he had, 
on the date he ceased to be in the Bank’s service, ulrcady 
worked for a continuous period aggregating 240 working 
days ignoring breaks in service not exceeding 15 days at a 
time. Para 20.9 does not cover the case of Padhiar because 
(1) he was not in the Bank’s service between June 1, 1965 
and October 19, 1966 and, therefoie, he cannot be permitted 
to take advantage of 20.9. His services commenced for the 
first time in January 1971 practically 5 or 6 years later. 
Para 20.10 says that a temporary workman who was, on 
19-10-66, in the Bank’s service will be treated as a confirmed 
workman irrespective of his qualifications if he satisfies two 
conditions, namely, that he did not fall within the definition 
of “temporary employee”, and that he had already worked 
for a continuous period aggregating 240 working days ignor- 
ing breaks In service not exceeding 15 days at a time. 20.10 
applies to a person who was actually in the service of the 
Bank on 19-10-66. Padhiar cannot take advantage of 20.10 
because he joined the Bank's service in 1971. Para 20.11 
says that a temporary workman who was, on 19-10-66 in 
the Bank’s seivice, will, if he is not covered by Para 20.10, 
be taken up on probation if he satisfies three conditions, 
namely, that he docs not fall within the definition of 
“temporary employee" and that, if in the clerical cadre, he 
' is at least a matriculate or its equivalent and that he has 
already worked for a continuous period aggregating 120 days 
ignoring breaks in service not exceeding 15 days at a time. 
Para 20.11 does not apply to Padhiar because he was not 
in the Bank’s service on iy-10-66. Para 20.12 says that other 
things being equal, temporary workmen will be given pre- 
ference for filling permanent vacancies and if selected they 
may have to undergo probation. Padhiar could have taken 
advantage of Para 20.12 if he had been selected and placed 
on probation. He was never selected and, therefore, para 
20.12 also does not help him. 

16. Padhiar’s further cas Is that, in any case, he is eligible 
for permanent absorption under the Bank’s circular letter 
Ext, M-38 dated the July, 1972, He had represented in 
this regard to the Regional Office but the Divisional' Manager 
had informed him by the letter Ext. W-26 dated the 7th 
March, 1973 that he was not entitled to be absorbed in terms 
of this circular. It appears that the question of absorbing 
temporary employees who had served the Bank or were work- 
ing in the Bank for specific periods had been engaging the 
attention of the Bank for sometime and the Bank decided to 
engage some categories of employees and/or confirm them in 
certain circumstances. Decision No. 1 of the Bank whs that 
“all temporary employees who are working at the branches/ 
Head office from or after 1st January, 1970 for a period of 
240 days or more, between 1st January 1970 and 30th Nov- 
ember, 1971, with or without break in their services, irres- 
pective of the nature of vacancies against which they had 
worked, notwithstanding their positions in tile written test 
in which they might or might not have appeared, shall be 
treated as confirmed employees of the Bank with effect from 
1st January 1972,” The question is whether Padhiar’s case is 



[wr 11 — WK 3(ii)] 


3471 


ffT77T «FT '!W : ftOTT 2 4, 19 7 7/arfaTff 2, 18 9 9 


covered by Decision No. i, In considering his case, breaks 
in service, nature of vacancies, result of written test shall 
have to be ignored but what cannot be ignored is work for 
a period of at least 240 days and these 240 days must occur 
between 1-1-70 and 30-11-71. There is no dispute that he 
worked during the aforesaid period as follows : (I) 28-1-71 
to 24-3-71, (2) 13-4-71 to 30-5-71. (3) 7-6-71 to 26-6-71 and 
(4) 5-10-71 to 5-11-71, The total period of service during 
the aforesaid specified period was only 156 days which is 
much less than 240 days, Decision No. 2 says that : “all 
temporary empfoyees whose services were terminated but who 
had put in aggregate service of 240 days or more in the Bank, 
lx? tween 1st January 1970 and 30th November 1971, with or 
without break in their services, irrespective ol the nature of 
vacancies against which they had worked, notwithstanding 
their positions in the written test in which they might or 
might not have appeared, will be offered employment in 
the Bank, provided they submit their applications for appoint- 
ments in the Bank on or before 31st July, 1972.” Decision 
No. 2 applies to the case of an employee who had put in at 
least 240 days between 1-1-70 and 30-11-70 but whose ser- 
vices had been terminated. In their cases also, breaks in 
sendee, nature of vacancies and result of written test wi I ! be 
ignored but what cannot be ignored is work for 240 days 
between 1-1-70 and 30-1 1-71 and the making of an applica- 
tion before 31-7-72. Padhiar had not worked for 240 days 
during the said period and what is more, it is not his case that 
he had made any application before July 31, 1972. His 
case, therefore, is not covered by Decision No. 2 also. Decision 
No, 3 says that “all temporary employees who are working 
or had worked for 91 days or more but less than 120 days 
without break in permanent vacancies or those who are 
working or had worked for 120 days or more but less than 
240 days with or without break in permanent vacancies only, 
during the period between 1st January 1970 and 30th Novem- 
ber 1971, will also be offered employment in the Bank after 
appropriate scrutiny of their applications by the concerned 
Assistant General Managers and Head Office. These appli- 
catioas will be received upto 31st July, 1972 by the Branches 
where they had previously worked. The dates of confirma- 
tion of these employees under the above clauses would be 
arrived at in the manner provided in clauses (a) or (b) or 
(c) of the circular letter. Decision No. 3 can be split up in 
two parts. The first part provides that there must be a ser- 
vice of at least 91 days, such service of 91 days must be 
without break, such service must be against permanent vacan- 
cy and if these conditions arc fulfilled an application must be 
made for permanent absorption before July 31, 1972. Padhiar's 
services were not against permanent vacancies and he never 
made any application, His case is, therefore, not covered by 
the first part. The second part requires a service of at least 
120 days between 1st January 1970 and 30th November, 
1971 against permanent vacancy only and provided applica- 
tion was made to the Branch Manager by July 31. 1972. In 
considering a case under part 2 breaks in service will be 
disregarded but what cannot be disregarded is work for 120 
days, work in a permanent vacancy, and making of an appli- 
cation. Padhiar had not worked in a parmanent vacancy and 
had not mude any application. His case is thus not covered 
by Part 2 also of Decision No. 3. His main argument is 
that the Bank's decisions arc arbitrary but such an argument 
docs not lie in his mouth. The Bank’s regular method of 
appointment is qualification at a test. It is by way of con- 
cession that it wanted to give advantage of permanent service 
to certain old employees provided they fulfilled certain condi- 
tions. No one can dictate that more concessions should have 
been given. I, therefore, ignore this argument. The result 
is that Padhiar's contention that he is eligible for absorption 
under the circular is not well-founded. 

17. The last contention of Padhiar is that the Bank's action 
has been highly discriminatory and arbitrary in absorbing 
others permanently, though they were similarly situated as 
him, and in disregarding his own case for permanent absorp- 
tion. He has deposed that one Pannalaf, Surcndra Kumar and 
Digambar Prasad, clerks in the Bemio Branch, whose cases 
were similar to his own, were made permanent by the Bank 
by entering into u settlement with them during conciliation 
proceedings before the A.E.C., Hazaribagh. He has further 
deposed that R. P. Sinha, Ram Bahadur and Pashupathi Nath 
Singh were retained in service and subsequently confirmed, 
though they were similarly situated as him, while bis ser- 
vices were terminated. He has then stated that one S. C. 
Clubra was transferred from the Mango Branch at Jamshed- 
pur to the Main Branch at that very place but his post in the 
Mango Branch was allowed to remain vacant although the 


Bank could have given him that appointment in that vacancy. 
His cross examination shows that his source of knowledge re- 
garding the aforesaid discriminations is based on the informa- 
tion collected by him from the said employees. M. V. 
Sonalkar MW-2 has no knowledge about these as he was trans- 
ferred from the Main Branch elsewhere. 1 do not think 
there is any substance in the point raised by Padhiar. So far 
as he is concerned, his case is evident on the record. He 
has not examined any of the said workmen to explain or give 
detail's and particulars of the facts as to how their cases are 
similar to the case of Padhiar. The Bank has been denied an 
opportunity to test the veracity of Padhiar’s ipse dixit. Padhiar 
himself has not given the details and particulars of the infor- 
mation received to exhibit the manner in which his case is 
similar to theirs. It is possible that their cases are covered 
by the circular letter, or they appeared at the test and quali- 
fied etc. etc. So far as S. C. Chabra is concerned, no grouse 
can be made if his post in the Mango Branch was allowed to 
remain vacant and was not filled up. 

18. My award is that the management of the Bank in 
terminating the services of Padhiar with effect from the 13th 
June, 1972 is justified and he is not entitled to any relief. 
Pashupathi Nath Singh has not appeared to challenge the 
Bank's contention and my awaid in respect of him is that 
the management of the Bank was justified in terminating his 
services with effect from 26th July, 1973 and he is not en- 
titled to any relief in respect of that termination. 

K. B. SRIVASTAVA, Presiding Officer. 

[No. I.-12012/140/73-LR.III/D.II.A.] 

New- Delhi, the 9th September, 1977 

S.O. 3000. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Bank of 
Ha rod a and their workmen, which was received by the Cent- 
ral Government on the 2nd September, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT TRIBUNAL 
AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGlT. 42 of 1975 

Employers in relation to Bank of Baroda, 

AND 

Their Workmen, 

APPLARANCES : 

For the Employers.- — Shri L. C. Joshi, legal Adviser. 

For the Workmen. — Shri H. K. Sowani, with General 
Secretary of the Union, 

INDUSTRY. Banking. STATE; Maharashtra. 

Bombay, the 11th July, 1977 
AWARD 

The Central Government has referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of the Bank of 
Baroda, Bombay in transferring Shri R, P. Dcsai, 
Cashier of the Marine Drive Branch of the said 
Bank to Sion Branch of the said Bank is jn c fifi»H ? 

If not, to what relief la the said workman entitled ?” 

After the filing of the written statement of claim by the 
Union and the written statement and rejoinder by the Bank, 
the matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions, 
but was adjourned on one or another ground. However, the 
parties have now filed a joint application stating that they 
have settled the dispute out of Court and pray that this 
Hon'ble Tribunal be pleased to make ‘No dispute’ award, in 
the reference. 

Under the circumstances, I make my award in terms of 
the above request of the above parties and answer accordingly. 

J, NARA1N, Presiding Officer. 

[F, No. L-12012/99/75-D.11.A.] 



3472 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, I977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Pari II— Sec, 3(ii)J 


S.O. 3001. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Bank of Ba- 
roda and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 2nd September, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CG1T-44 of 1975 

Employers in relation to Bank of Baroda. 

AND 

Thcii workmen. 

APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers.— Shi'i L. C. Joshi, Legal Adviser. 

For the Workmen. — Shri H. K. Sowani, with General 
Secretary of the Union. 

INDUSTRY: Banking, STATE: Maharashtra, 

Bombay, dated the llth July, 1977 
AWARD 

The Central Government has referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

‘ Whether the action of the management of the Bank of 
Baroda, Bombay in transferring Shri Anil P. Shuh 
from Churchgale Branch of the said Bank to Chanda- 
varkar Road Branch, Matunga, Bombay of the said 
Bank is justified 7 If not, to what relief is the said 
workman entitled 7” 

After the filing of written statement of claim by the Union, 
and the written statement and rejoinder by the Bank, the 
matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions, but 
was adjourned on one or another ground. However, the 
parties have now filed a joint application stating that they 
have settled the dispute out of Court and prayed that this 
Hon’ble Tribunal be pleased to make ‘No dispute’ award, in 
the dispute. 

Under the circumstances, I make my award in terms of 
above request of the parties and answer the reference accor- 
dingly. 

New Delhi, the 1 .2th Seplember, J 977 

,1. NARAIN, Presiding Officer. 

IF'. No. 1.-120I2/10I /75-D.I1.A.J 
New Delhi, the 12th September, 1977 

S.O. 3002. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government In- 
dustrial Tribunal, Bombay in the Industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the I ife Insurance Corporation of 
India and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 5th September, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR 
COURT AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CC1T-17 of 1975 

. -EfrvplQyers in relation to the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India. 

AND 

Their Workmen. 

APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers. — Shri P. T. kini, H.G.A. 

For the Workmen. — Shri C. S. Deshpunde, General Secre- 
tary, All India Employed Architects Union. 

INDUSTRY : Insurance. STATE : Mahaiashha. 

Bombay, the 19th Inly, 1977 


AWARD 

The Central Government has referred the following dispute 
for adjudication by this Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of the Life In- 
surance Corporation of India in terminating the sei- 
vices of the following sin architectural Assistants is 
justified 7 If not, to what relief are the said six 
workmen entitled 7" 

1. Miss Vinava Rameshchandrn. 

2. Miss Sunanda Chine. 

3. Shri V. K. Datar. 

4. Shri S. K, Tari. 

5. Shri A. K. Mukhcrjcc. 
fi. Shri V, N. Achai'ya. 

After the filing of the written statements etc. by the put lies, 
the matter was fixed for hearing on a number of occasions and 
was adjourned on one or another ground. However, on the 
date of healing i.e. on 19-7-1977 the parties filed a settlement 
dated 5-7-1977 (Annexure-I) arrived at between them and 
prayed that this Hon'ble Tribunal be pleased to make award 
in terms of the settlement. I find the terms of settlement fair 
and reasonable and make my award accordingly. Under the 
circumstances no order as to the costs is being made. 

J. N.ARA1N, Presiding Officer. 

IF. No. E-1701 1/10/74 I.IU/D.II A.] 


S.O. 3U03.-— In pursuance of seclion 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov- 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Ihe industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India, Bombay and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 5th September, 
1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. tGIT-21) of 1975 

PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to Life Insurance Corporation of 
India, Bombay. 

AND 

Their workmen, 

APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers.- — I. Shri A, W. Dharwadker, Advo- 
cate, 2. Shri Y. Ramachandran, Administration 
Officer, Life Insurance Corporation, 3. Shri P. T, 
Kini, HGA, Life Insurance Corporation. 

For the Workmen.— 1. Shri M. P. More, Advocate, 2 
Shri A. S. Deo, Member Managing Committee, 3. 
Shri V. R. Deshpande, President, Bombay Division 
Insurance Workers Organisation, 4. Shri S, D. 
Kulkami, General Secretary, Bombay Division In- 
surance Workers Organisation, 5. Shri M. TL Sopari- 
wala. President, Insurance Employees Association 

6. Shri V. B. Kathuria, General Secretary, insur- 
ance Corporation Employees’ Union, Bombay. 

INDUSTRY : Insurance, STATE : Maharashtra 

Bombay, the 1 5th August, 1977 
AWARD 

The Central Government by a notification dated the 1 Itt 
April, 1975 in exercise of the poweis conferred by clausi 
(d) of sub-section (1) uf section 10 of the Industrial Dix 
pules Act, 1947 has referred the following dispute for nJju 
dication. 



[vrnr II — , i ir 7 :i(ii)l 


3473 


■rTPA 5pr T RT? : f*tdH J 2 1, 1 ‘■l 7 7 /^TI f 2, 1 S y 9 


SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the Management of the I.ifc 
Insmance Corpoialion of India m discontinuing the 
City Compensating Allowance to all t he C lass 111 
and Class IV employees of Ulhasnagar Branch with 
effect from the 1st October, 117? is just i tied ? 11 
not to what lelief arc the said workmen entitled ?' 

2. It seems that there has been a slight typographical 
error in the schedule published in the Gazette of India noti- 
fication in that for the year 1974 what has been typed is 
1975. All the parties are agreed that it is a typographical 
mistake and us such I would take it that I he relevant date 
is the 1st of October, 1974. 

3. I he I.ifc Insurance Corpoialion of India (hcreinaftci 
icfeired to as the Coiporation) is a statutory hnancial insti- 
tution set up under the I ife Insurance Corpoialion Act, 1956. 
Under section 49 the Corporation may with the previous ap- 
pioval of the Central Government by notification in the 
Gazette of India make regulations not inconsistent with the 
Act and the rules made thereunder. Sub-section 2(b) says 
that such a regulation may provide for the method of rec- 
ruitment of employees and iigcnts of the Corporation and 
Ihe terms and conditions of service of such employees or 
agents. In consequence (Staff) Regulations I960 came to 
he framed, ft applies to every whole-time ( salaried) emp- 
loyee of the Corporation (in India) “unless otherwise pro- 
vided by the terms of any contract, agreement or letter of 
appointment. The Regulation protides foi City Compen- 
satory Allowance of Rs. 10 per month for 16 cities” one 
of which is Bombay. In 1972 names of six more cities were 
added (vide Exhibit T-.-2 ) by an amendment to the regula- 
tion (vide Exhibit E-3). The amount of Rs. 10 was raised 
to Rs. 20 by an amendment of the Regulation. The increase 
was published in ihe Gazette ol India dated 4-5-1974. A 
settlement as also arrived at between the I.ifc Insmance Coi- 
poration of India and the different Associations '(.presenting 
its workmen on 24-1-1974 and this settlement was to be 
effective from the 1st April, 1973 for a period of 4 years. 
Regarding City Compensatory Allowance (he following 
lettlemcnt was arrived at. “City Compenxatoiy Allowance 
ihall be paid at the rate of Rs. 20 per month in the case 
rf Class III and Class IV employees at the centres at which 
his allowance is now being paid to such employees. If and 
when the Central Government extends the benefit of City 
1'onrpensatory Allowance to other centres, Ihe Corporation 
shall extend this benefit to the employees in such t entres also.” 
(vide Exhibit U-3). 

4. A settlement was arrived at before (he National Indus- 
rial Tribunal between the Corporation and the dillerent 
Associations and Federations representing the workers of the 
Corporation and the memorandum of settlement is dated 
[he 20th I une 1970 (side Exhibit 1.1-2). The lepresenlativcs 
of the Associations which were parties to the settlement before 
Ihe National Industrial Tribunal had some discussions with 
the Corporation authorities and accordingly a circular was 
issued on 29-1-1971 to all officers of the Corporation fvide 
Exhibit E-l). It set out the limits of different metropolitan 
cities where City Compensatory Allowance was payable Ihose 
days Hombay was shown ns comprising of the areas within 
the limits of the Bombay Municipal Corporation, Dombivli, 
Kalyan und Thana Municipalities. This circular was issued 
over (he signature of Executive Director to all offices of 
the Corporation. 

5. Above gives a short history indicating how compensa- 
tory allowance came to be increased from time to time and 
how the area of Bombay was delineated. With the above 
background I shall now set out (he facts of the case and 
rival contentions of the unities. There was a Branch Office 
of the Corporation at Kalyan. It was bifmcateJ on the 
26th July, 1973 and there came into being what is known 
as Ulhasnagar branch with a strength of 15 for class III and 
class IV employees. The staff of this bianch was manned 
by transfer of 7 employees from Kalyan branch, 5 employees 
r "om Bombay Divisional Office and 1 employee from Pen 
Branch. Two class IV employees were newly recruited. A1J 
these employees were being paid City Compensatory Allovv- 
mcc right from the date the Ulhasnagar branch came into 
xislence. Il was, however, stopped with effect from the 15th 

lober, 1974, 

6. flic case of the employees of Ulhasnagar hianch has 
been sponsored by two employees Associations, namely In- 


surance Employees Association and Insurance Corporation 
Employees Union. 

7. [heir case is that Tirana. Domhivili, Kalyan, Amharnuth, 
Ulhasnagar elc. from one compact area, linked to Bombay 
City proper by suburban trains. This is said to have been 
recognised by the Corporation itself as will appear from their 
Bombay Divisional Office, Development Department Memo 
dated 17-2-1972. Tl inns as follows : — 

“We have to inform you that the population of Kalyan 
Municipality is 99,547 according to the 1971 cen- 
sus. We have further to advise you that Kalyan- 
fornix part and put cel of Ulhasnagar urban agglo- 
meration having a total population of 3,96,384 and 
for the purpose of determining the minimum busi- 
ness guarantee applicable to agents operations in 
any of the component towns of Ulhasnagar urban 
agglomeration, the population of Ulhasnagar Uiban 
agglomeration is to be taken into account. Further 
the Ulhasnagar notified area has a population of 
1,68,462 while the Ulhasnagar Urban agglomeration 
has a population of 3,96,384 (this figure includes 
the population of Ulhasnagar notilied area.)" 

The Association says that the above shows that (he Cor- 
poration have recognised in reality that Kalyan is a part 
and parcel of Ulhasnagar urban agglomeration which has a 
population ol 3,96,384. The Corporation implemented clause 
5 of the settlement dated 24-1-1974 relating to Compensa- 
tory City Allowance and paid arrears of the difference bet- 
ween the then prevailing rate and the revised rale of Rs. 20 
per month with effect from 26-7-1973, the rate when IJlhas- 
nngar branch came into existence to all employees at Ulhas- 
nagar branch. The Corporation continued to do so upto 
15-10-1974 Stoppage of the same with effect from 15-10-74 
is said to he unjustified, arbitrary und illegal for the follow- 
ing reasons : — 

(a) It is a breach of the settlement dated 24-1-1974 
which is still in force. 

(h) It is in contravention of section 9A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, read along with item 1 
of the 4th schedule, in as much as the Corporation 
has failed to give any due notice of change before 
discontinuing the allowance. 

<e) Employees of Ulhasnagar branch have come to 
regard City Compensatory Allowance as a pait of 
their service condition. 

(d) The Corporation's contention that payment of City 
Compensatory Allowance to cmp'oyces of Ulhasnagar 
branch was through a regrettable error is an incre- 
dible after-thought, 

(e) Ulhasnagar and Kalyan form one compact area in 
the metropolitan city of Bombay. 

8, The 1 -ife Insurance Corporation of India filed its written 
statement and has taken the position that the terms and 
conditions of employees of the Corporation can be regula- 
ted only by Regulations made under section 49 of the I.ifc 
Insurance Corporation Act. Such a regulation has been 
framed which is Life Insurance Corporation of India ( Staff) 
Regulation I960. Since Ulhasnagar is not one of the cen- 
tres figuring in the list of centres where Chy Compensatory 
Allowance was available or extended, claim made on behalf 
of the Ulhasnagar employees is strongly resisted. It is ad- 
mitted that City Compensatory Allowance was paid to Ihe 
employees at Ulhasnagar branch but the contention is that 
as soon as this irregular and erroneous payment came to 
the notice of the competent authority, (he brunch office was 
directed to discontinue this payment with effect from 1 - J 0-74. 
Any unauthorised payment made cannot vest any right in 
the employees. Payment of City Compensatory Allowance at 
Ulhasnagar having been made erroneously, it cannot trans- 
form itself into a condition of service and therefore there 
is no question of contravention of section 9A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act. Question of population at Ulhasnagar 
and Kalyan is said to he irrelevant since the Corporation by 
its circular dated 29-1-1971 specified the 16 centres including 
Kalyan at which City Conipensaloi y Allowance would be 
payable and dsdiucd the limn ( >1 Bombay Milnicipalily as 
including only Kalyan. Jurisdiction of this Tribunal to enter- 
tain a claim for payment of City Compensatory Allowance 
is also challenged. 



34 74 TJHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 24, 1977/ASVINA 2, 1899 [Pari II— Sec. 3(ii) ] 


9. Enclosure to the forwarding letter Exhibit U-l is Ihe 
transfer order of one of the employees namely, Shri G. P. 
Ahuja from Kalyan branch to Ulhasnagar branch and the 
Hank's order is dated 18.-7-1973 and is signed by 
Senior Divisional Manager. Exhibit U-4 dated 20-3-74 is 
the confirmation order over the signature of Senior Divi- 
sional Manager. It says that the Peon Shri R. P. Dabak 
is being confirmed and his salat v will consist of besides 
other allowances City Compensatory Allowance of Rs. 20 
per month. 

10. it has been strenuously argued for the Corporation 
that since Ulhasnagar is not named as one of the cities 
in the Staff Regulation or in the subsequent amendments 
thereof nor in any of the Settlements arrived at between 
the parties, claim of City Compensatory Allowance for 
Ulhasnagar is untenable. Further contention is that the 
regulation framed under section 49 of the Life Insurance 
Corporation has statutory force and unless an amendment as 
contemplated by section 49 Is made no office order can have 
any effect in law. From this point of view it has been urged 
that mention of City Compensatory Allowance in the con- 
firmation order, Exhibit U-4 can have no force in law. II 
is also contended that even if lhc order was issued over the 
signature of the Senior Divisional Manager, since it was not 
in pursuance of the staff regulation 1960 or amendment 
(hereof it has no force in law and cannot confer any right 
on the employees. The point, however, to be noticed is that 
clause 2 of the Staff Regulation itself speaks of the validity 
of an agreement. ( have already referred to the agreement, 
Exhibit U-3 that was arrived at on 24-J-1974 between the 
Corporation on the one hand and the 4 employees’ Asso- 
ciations on the other. This agreement is contemplated by 
the Staff Regulations 1960 and it must have full effect in 
law. Clause 5 of this agreement speaks of payment of City 
Compensatory Allowance at the centres at which the allow- 
ance was then being paid. At (hat time City Compensatory 
Allowance was being paid at Kalyan brunch. Payment of 
Kalyan branch was being done as a result of discussion bet- 
ween the representatives of the Associations of Workers and 
the Corporation in connection with the settlement dated 
20-6-1970 filed before the National Industrial Tribunal. As 
a result of this discussion certain agreements were arrived 
at and one of these was that Bombay will comprise the 
areas within the limits of Bombay Municipal Corporation 
(Greater Bombay), Dombivli, Kalyan and Thnna Munici- 
palities (vide Exhibit E-l), Next it is for consideration 
whether Ulhasnagar which came to be bifurcated from Kalyan 
later will be deemed to have been covered by (his agree- 
ment or not. In this connection there is the document of 
Ihe Corporation itself namely, their Divisional Office Deve- 
lopment Department memo dated 17-2-1972, which has al- 
ready been reproduced. above. This shows that even according 
lo the Corporation, Kalyan is a part and parcel of Ulhasnagar 
and therefore when the Settlement, dated 29-1-1971 (vide 
Exhibit F-l ) speaks of Kalyan it must be held that it includes 
also Ulhasnagar which came laler lo be bifurcated from if 

11. The matter can be looked at from another point of 
view. When the settlement, Exhibit U-3 was signed on the 
24-1-1974 it was clearly stated that the City Compensatory 
Allowance will be payable at the centres at which it was 
then being paid. It will Ire noticed that the. "centre” has 
been used instead of the word “city” which occurs in the 
earlier settlement. So when the settlement, Exhibit U-3 was 
entered into the City Compensatory Allowance was being 
paid at the centre of Ulhasnagar and therefore under the 
settlement it will continue to be paid there and lo such a 
settlement the Corporation was a party and hence bound by 
it. For the Corporation my attention was drawn to clause 
12(2) of the settlement. It says lhat the terms in this 
settlement shall be subject to the approval of the Board of 
the Corporation and Central Government. II is not clcur 
what is meant by referring to tills clause. Anyway, it is 
not the contention of the Corporation that the settlement has 
not received the approval of the Board of the Corporation 
and the Central 1 Government. Therefore, there is nothing to 
detract the settlement, Exhibit U-3 from having its full effect 
in law. 

12. While slating the facts of the case I have slated bow 
the staff at Ulhasnagar was naid Cily CompcnsaUiiv Allow- 
ance. The stall' consisted of transfer of 7 employees lrorn 
[lie Kalyan branch, 5 employees from ihe Bombay Divisional 
Office and one employee from the Pen branch. Two class 



]V employees were recanted. /Ml these persons were paid 
City Compensatory Allowance from the 26th Inly, 1973 till 
the 15th October, 1974, as stated in the written statement 
of the Insurance Employees Association, In the confirma- 
tion lellcr that was issued to the Peon, Shri R. P. Dabak 
clear mention was made of his entitlement to City Com- 
pensatory Allowance of Rs. 20 per month. Thus City 
Compensatory Allowance was a condition of service and if 
lhc Corporation proposed lo stop it, it was incumbent on 
them to issue a notice in terms of section 9A of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act. 

13. Although it was urged that Compensatory Allowance 
has been paid to the employees at Ulhasnagar branch by 
mistake, this has remained a mere submission. Nothing has 
been disclosed to show the person or persons who were res- 
ponsible for this mistake and what step, if any, was taken 
against the concerned Officer. Therefore, it is difficult for 
me to uphold this submission. 

14. Again, nothing has been pointed to show as to how 
jurisdiction of this tribunal lo entcitain the claim is barred 
nor do I find any. 

15. No substance having been found in any of the con- 
tentions raised and the claim of the workers being founded 
on the settlement, which is quite legal, il must be stated 
that action of the management in discontinuing the Cily 
Compensatory allowance to all the Class III and Class IV 
employees of Ulhasnagar Branch with effect from (he 1st 
October, 1975 is not justified and they are entitled to lhc 
Cily Compensatory Allowance from 15-10-1974 at (he rate 
of Rs. 20 per month. 

I. NARA1N, Presiding Officer 

IF. No. 1,-17029/1 /7,5-D.II, A. | 
New Delhi, the 14th September, 1977 

S.O. 3004. — Jn pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Govcrnmeni Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Bombay in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Fife Insurance Corporation of 
India and their workmen, which was received by the Central 
Government on tile 8th September, 1977. 

BEFORE THE CENTRA!. GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNA!., BOMBAY. 

Reference No. CUIT-21 of 1975 

Employers in relation 10 ihe Eife Insurance C.iiiporation 
of India. 

AND 

'I heir Workmen. 

APPEARANCES : 

Foi lhc employers— Shri P. T. kini. H. G. A. 

For the workmen — Shi i C. S. Dcshpunde, General Secre- 
tin y, All India Employed Architects Union. 

INDUSTRY : Insurance. STATE ■ Maharashtra. 

Bombay, dated the 19ih July, 1977 
AWARD 

The Cential Government has refeiied the following dispute 
lot adjudication by this Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the action of the management of Ihe Life Insu- 
rance Corporation of India in terminating Ihe services 
of Shri G. S. Dcshpnnde, Architect Assistant wilh 
ellect from the 31st July, 1974, Is justified ? If nol, to 
what relief is he entitled ?” 

Aflei Ihe filing of lhc written statements, etc., by the parties 
the malter was fixed toi hearing on .l number of occasions and 
was ndjuLimcd on one or anolhei gionmi. lluwevci. on the 
date of hearing i e. on 19-7-1977, the parties filed a settlement 
dated 5-7-1977 (Annexure-I) arrived at between them and 



ir Tf — w :i(ii)] 

Jed that this Hon'blc Tribunal be pleased to make award in 
ns of the settlement. I (ind the terms of the settlement ac- 
id at by the parties fair and reasonable and 1 make my 
aid accordingly. Ihidei the circumstanees no ordei as In 
Is is being made, 

J. NARAIN, Presiding Officer 
[F. No T. 1701 1 /I l/ 71 -LR.I/D.ir.A.] 
JAG DISII PRASAD, Under Secy, 


(lunr-Er fsfflFf) 

24 fawnT?, 1977 

*ft. an. 3005. — 3rf , atu ; Mir i i96a (191-12 52) 

it otti 7 ii ere ?ift vtitct t>t traiir ^rrrf fjm 

mw suTertV ‘Nttft utr- ?j- Erf^zrf ;rrV 


3475 

Jl’n-TT TfeTUrf -ft t'.-T=r( if TRi/G' T'lbH TwH l' 

SPT if t'l'Mrl WII I 

[it. 202/%. *r. 4Rl/r>2/i"7-f%-7] 

rrif- sJliitrTirrff', 3R7 *ri%T 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 

New Delhi, the 24th September, 1977 
CUSTOMS 

S.O. 3005. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 
(a) of section 7 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the 
Central Government hereby appoints Bangaloie airport as 
customs airport for the unloading of watches and compo- 
nent parts of watches. 

(Notification No. 202/F. No. 481/52/77-Cus.VIIl 
N. KRISHNAMUR1 HY, Under Sccy. 


<tru pi mr-F Otitt 2-*, i n 7 7%^;! 2 , tsyy 



PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OF INDIA CRESS RING ROAD, NEW DELHI-110064 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CON I ROL1.LR OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI-110054, 1977 




