REGISTERED No. 1). 222 


‘Qlie dasctte 




fnbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 36] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the ist Sep- 
tember, 1956 : — 


Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

243A 

S. R. O. X93X-A, dated the 
25th August 1956. 

Ministry of Law 

Appointment of date on which 
the Representation of th e 
People (Second Amend- 
ment) Act, 1956 shall come 
into force. 

244 

S. R. O. 8889-A, dated the 
28th August 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 

Life Insurance Corporation Rules, 
1956 . 

245 

S. R, 0 . 1932, dated the 28th 
August 1936. 

Ministry of Labour 

Appointment of date on which 
| certain provisions of the 

1 Employees’ State Insurance 
Act 1948, shall come into force 
in the area of Burhampur Mu- 
nicipality. 

246 

S. R. 0 . 1933, dated the 28th 
August 1936. 

Ministry of Finance 

The Central Government specify 
certain securities as approved 
securities for the purpose of 
the Insurance Act, 1938. 

247 

S.R.O. 1934, dated the 28th 
August 1956. 

Ditto 

Appointment of date on which 
certain sections of the In- 
dustrial Disputes (Amend- 

ment and Miscellaneous Pro- 
visions) Act, 1956, shall come 
into force. 


S.R.O. 1935) dated the 28th 
August 1956. 

Ditto 

Appointment of date on which 
section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes (Amendment and 
Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 
1956, shall come into force. 

248 

S.R.O. 1936, dated the 16th 
August 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 

Orders by the Administrator, 
the Jupitor General Insurance 
Company, Limited. 


( 1471 ) 


I 472 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


Issue 

No. 

Name and date J 

Issued by 

Subject 

249 

S.R.O. 1937, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 

Appointment of date on which 
the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India is established. 


S.R.O, T938, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Ditto 

List of members of the Life 
Insurance Corporation of 
India. 


S.R.O. 1939, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Ditto 

The Central Government Spec! 
fies Bombay as the place 
where the Central Office of 
the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India shall be situate. 

250 

S.R.O. 1940, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Ministry of Labour 

1 

1 

Constimtion of an Industrial 
Tribunal for the adjudication of 
dispute between the Com- 
missioners for the Port of 
Calcutta and the Assistant 
Harbour Masters. 

25 1 

S.R.O. 1941, dated the 28th 
August 1956. 

Government of 
Ajmer. 

Draft amendments in the Ajmer 
State Municipalities Election 
Rules, 1955. 

252 

S.R.O. 1942, dated the 24th 
August 1936. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Election Petition No. 1 of 1956. 

233 

S.R.O. 1943, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Ministry of Law . 

The Representation of the People 
(Conduct of Elections and 

Election Petitions) Rules, 

7956. 

254 

S.R.O. 1944, dated the 30th 
August 1956. 

Election Commission 
India. 

Election Petition No. 273 of 
1932. 

255 

S.R.O. 1945, dated the 1st 
September 1956. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry. 

Fixation of the price of tea for 
the purpose of Item 5 in the 
Second Schedule to the Indian 
Tariff Act, 1934. 

236 

S.R.O. 1946, dated the 1st 
September T956. 

Ministry of Finance 
(Department of 
Revenue). 

Exemption of cotton fabrics 
from so much of duty as in 
excess of duty specified 
therein. 


S.R.O, 1947, dated the 1st 
September 1956. 

Ditto 

Rates of duty payable by any 
manufacturer employing 

powerlooms in the manufac- 
ture of cotton fabrics. 

257 

S.R.O. 1948, dated the ist 
September 1956. 

Ditto 

Exemption of certain qualities of 
manganese ore when export- 
ed, from payment of customs 
duty specified therein. 


Copies of the Gasattes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 



Part II— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1473 


PART II— Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 

SJLQ. 1953. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 45 of the States Re- 
organisation Act, 1956 (37 of 1956), the Central Government hereby specifies, in 
respect of each of the. new States mentioned in the first column of the table below, 
the five persons mentioned against that State in the second column thereof as the 
persons whom the Delimitation Commission shall associate with itself for the 

5 ose of assisting it in the performance of its functions under clause (b) of 
on 44 of the said Act:— 


New Stale 


Associate Members 


I. Bombay .... 1. Shri Chiotram Gidwani, M.P. 

2. Shri Bhawanji Rhimji, M.P. 

3. Shri Annajirao Gavane, M.L.A. (Hyderabad). 

4. Shri Chitaranjan Raghunath Raja, M-L.A. 
(Saurashtra). 

5. Shri Kirlimantrao Bhujangrao, M.L.A. 
(Madhya Pradebh), 

II. Kerala 1. Shri K.T. Achuthan, M.P. 

2. Shri V.P. Nayar, M.P. 

3. Shri A.M., Thomas,, M.P. 

4. Shri N. Gopaia Menon, M.L.A. (Madras). 

5. Dr. K.B. Menon, M.L.A. (Madras). 

III. Madhya Pradesh . . 1. Seth Govind Das, M.P. 

2. Shri Radhelal Vyas, M,P. 

' 3. Shri Shiva Dutt Upadhyaya, M.P. 

4. Shri P.L, Inamdar, M.L.A. (Madhya Bharat). 

5. Shri Lai Rajendra Bahadur Singh, M.L.A. 
(Vindhya Pradesh). 

IV. Mysore . 1. Shri C.R. Hasappa, M.P. 

2. Shri Rajaram Girdharla) Dubcy, M.P. 

3. Shri T. irmumuah, M.L.A. (Mysore). 

4. Shri B.I. Nagarajamurthy, M.L.A. (Mysore). 

5. Shri S.R. Kanihi, M.L.A. (Bombay). 

V. Punjab . . 1. Sardar Hutam Sirgh. M.P. 

2. Shn Rum Partap Garg, M.P, 

3. Shri Ranhir Singh Chandhuri, M.P. 

4. Sardar Ajmer Singh, M.L.A. (Punjab). 

5. Sardar Gurbanta Singh, M.L.A. (Punjab). 

V t . Rajasthan . .1. Shri Mukut Bihaii Lai Bhargava, M.P. 

2. Shri Nemi Chandra Kasliwali, M.P. 

3. Shri Aijan Das, ML. A. (Ajmer). 

4. Shri H,D, Jushi, M.L.A. (Rajasthan). . 

5. Shri Mohabbat Singh, M.L.A. (Rajasthan). 


[No. F,16(3)/56-Election.| 
K. V. K. SUNDARAM, Special Secy. 



M74 


[Past II — Sec- 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 28 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1954. — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3(b) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Rani Saheba Bharatidevi, consort of the Ruler of Chula 
for the purposes of that entry, in respect of one rifle or gun and one pistol or 
revolver. 

[No. 16/18/56-Police IV.] 


New Delhi-2, the 30 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1955. — The Central Government is pleased to notify that Maharaj 
Kumar Shri Shatrushalyasinhji son of His Highness the Maharaja of Nawanagar, 
has been nominated by the said Ruler for the purposes of entry 2(b) of the table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951. 

[No. 16/17/56-Police IV.] 


New Delhi-2, the 31st August 1956 

S.R.O. 1956. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely: — 

In sub-rule (2) of rule 41 of the. said Rules, after the words “Every such 
authority” the words “or the immediate official superior of such authority (not 
being the State Government), as the case may be”, shall be inserted. 

[No. 9/181/65-Police IV.] 
C. P. S. MENON, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2 the 29th August 1956 


S.R.O. 1957 — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956, the Central 
Government horeby appoints each of the officers specified in column 2 of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of Uttar Pradesh the functions of the Collector under the said 
Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and 
comprised within the district mentioned in column 1 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Name of the district 


Designation of the officer Area of operation 


1 


2 


3 


Dehradun 
Saharanpur 
Muzaffsrnagar . 


Meerut 


. District Relief and Rehabilitation Dehradun district. 

Officer and Settlement Officer, 

. District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Saharanpur district, 
and Settlement Officer. 

. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Zuf sub- Zuf sub-division, 
division. 

Sub-divisional Magistrate, Jansath Jansath sub-division. 
Bub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kairana Kairana sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Budhana Budhana sub-division. 
Bub-division. 

. District Relief and Rehabilitation Meerut district. 

Officer and Settlement Officer. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


1475 


Part 


II— Si 


EC. 3] 


1 


2 


3 


Bulandshahr 


Aligarh 


Mathura . 


Agra 

Mainpuri . 


Etah 


Bareilly . 
Bijnor 


Budaun 


. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Buland- 
shahr sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Khurja 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sikandra- 
bad sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate and Settle- 
ment Officer, Consolidation. 

Additional sub-Divisional Magistrate 

City Magistrate, Aligarh 


Sub-Divisional Magistrate having 

jurisdiction over Police Circle Ja- 
wair and Harduganj. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Hathras 

sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sikandra 
Rao sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Atraull 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Khair sub- 
division. 

Additional Sub-Divisional Magis- 


Magistrate, Mathura 


trate. 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chhata 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Mat sub- 
division. 

Additional Sub-Divisional Magistrate, 
Sadabad sub-division. 

District Relief and Rehabilitation 
Officer and Settlement Officer, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having 
jurisdiction over Mainpuri and 
Karhal Tchsils. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Shikohabad 
and Jasrana sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bhongaon 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kasganj 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division. 

Judicial Officer and sub-divisional 
Magistrate, Etah sub-division. 

District Relief and Rehabilitation 
Officer and Settlement Officer. 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dhampur 


Magistrate, Aliganj 
Magistrate, Jalesar 


sub-division. 

Sub-Divlslonal 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional 
division. 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Datagan 
sub-di vision. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sahaswai 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bisaul 
sub-division. 


Magistrate, Nagina 
Magistrate, Bijnor sub- 
Magistrate, Najibabad 
Magistrate, Budaun 


Magistrate, Gunnaur 


Bulandshahr sub-division. 

Khurja sub-division. 

Sikandrabad sub-division. 

Anupshahr sub-division. 

Sikandarabad sub-division. 
Police circle Kotwali, Banna- 
devi and Civil Lines. 

Police circles Jawalr and 
Harduganj. 

Hathras sub-division, 

Sikandra Rao sub-division. 

Atrauli sub-division. 

Khair Bub-diviBion. 

Iglas sub-division. 

Mathura sub-diviBion. 

Chhata sub-division. 

Mat sub-division. 

Sadabad sub-division. 

Agra district. 

Mainpuri and Karhal Tchsils 

Shikahabad and Jasrana sub 
division. 

Bhongaon sub-division. 
Kasganj sub-division. 

Aliganj sub-division. 

Jalesar sub-division. 

Etah sub-division. 

Bareilly District. 

Dhampur sub-division. 

Nagina sub-division. 

Bijnor Bub-division. 

Najibabad sub-division. 
Budaun sub-division. 

Dataganj sub-division. 
Sahaswan sub-division. 
Gunnaur sub-division. 

Bisauli sub-division. 



' 1476 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 



Moradabad . District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Moradabad District, 

and Settlement Officer. 

Shajahanpur . . City Magistrate, Shahjahanpur . Kottvali and Sadar Bazar Police 

Circles. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Poway a Powaya sub-division. 
Bub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Tilhar sub- Tilhar sub-division, 
division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jalalabad Jalalabad sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Shahjahan- Shahjahanpur Bub-division, 
pur sub-division. 

Pilibhit . . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Pilibhit Pilibhit Bub-diviBion. 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Biaalpur Bisalpur sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Puranpur Puranpur sub-division, 
sub-division, 

Rampur , . , Sub-Diviaional Magistrate, Suar Sadar Suar Sadar sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bilaspur Bilaspur sub-diviBion, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Milak Milak Shahabad sub-division 
Shahabad sub-division. 

EtaWoh . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bharthana Bharthana sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Auraiya Auraiya sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bidhuna Bidhuna sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Etawuh Etawuh sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Kanpur . . . District Relief and Rehabilitation Kanpur district. 

Officer and Settlement Officer. 

Fatehpur . . Sub-Divisional Officer, Fatchpur Sadar Fatehpur Sadar sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Khajuha sub- Khajuha sub-division, 
division. , 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Khaga sub- Khaga sub-division, 
division. 

Allahabad . . District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer Allahabad district, 

and Settlement Officer, 

Farrukhabad . . City Magistrate, Fatchgarh Farrukhabad and Fatclgarh. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Mohammadabad, Raiapur, 
jurisdiction over Mohammadabad, Kamalganj and portions of 
Rajapur, Kamalganj and portions of Nawabganj lying in Farru- 
Nawabganj lying in Farrukhabad khabad sub-diviston. 

sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Kaimganj, Kampil, Shamsa- 
jurisdictibn over Kaimganj, Kampil, bad and portions of Nawab 
Shamsabud and portions ofNawab- ganj. 

ganj. 

Sub-Divisional Ma^istarate, having Chhibramau, Saurikh and 
jurisdiction over Chhibramau, Sau- portions of Police 
rikh and portions of Police Station Station Tndergsrh and Gur- 
Indergarh and Gursahaiganj. sahaiganj. 

Sub-Divisional Alagistaratc having Kannauj, Thatia, portions of 
jurisdiction over Kannauj, Thatia, Gursahaiganj and Indergarh., 

portions of Gursahaiganj and Inder- 
garh. 

Hamirpur . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Hamirpur Hamirpur sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Maudaha Maudaha sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Rath Rath sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub- Divisional Magistrate, Mahoba Mahoba and Charkharl sub- 
and Charkhari sub-division. division, 




Part II— Sec. 3] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 

1477 

I 

i 3 



Banda . . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Kurwi and Mau Tahsils. 

jurisdiction over Karwi and Mau 
Tahsils. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Banda Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Banda Tahsil. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate,, having Baberu and Naraini Tahsils. 
jurisdiction over Baberu and Naraini 
Tahsils. 

Jhansi . . . City Magistrate, Jhansi 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Mau-cum- 
Garotha Sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jhansi 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Moth 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Lalitpur 

sub-division. 

Jalaun . . . Sub-dividional Magistrate, Konch sub- Konch sub-division, 

division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Orai and Orai and Kalpi sub-division. 
Kalpi sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistatc, Jalaun Jalaun sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Varanasi . , . Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Pargana Katihar Sultanpur Kol 

Jurisdiction over Pargana Katihar asla pandrah athgawan and 
Sultanpur Kol asla pandrah athgawan Jalhupur of TahBil Varasnai. 
and Jalhupur of Tahsil Varanasi. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Parganas Kaswar raja Kaswar 

jurisdiction over Parganas Kaswar Saukari dchat amanat Sheo- 

raja Kaswar Saukari dchat amanat pur and Ramnagar of Tahsil 

Sheopur and Ratnnagar of Tahsil Varanasi 
Varanasi 

Sub-Divisional Magistrae having Parganas Mahaich, Barhwar, 
jurisdiction over Parganas Mahaich, and Narawan of Tahsil 
Majhwar and Narawan of Tahsil Chandauli. 

Chandauli. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Parganas Barah, Barhwal, 
jurisdiction over Parganas Barah, Mawai, Alohuari dhus and 
Barhwal, Mawai, Mohaurirdhus and Ralhpur of Tahsil Chandauli. 
Ralhpur of Tahsil Chandauli. 

Sub-Divisional Alagistrate, Bhadohi Bhadohi sub-division, 
Sub-Division 

Sub-Divisional Alagistrate, Chakia Chakia sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Mirzapur . . . Sub-Divisional Alagistrate Sadar Sub- Sadar sub-division. 

sub-Division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Chunar Chunar sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dhudhi Dudhi sub-division, 
sub-didions. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Roberto- Robertoganj sub-division, 
ganj sub-division. 

Jaunpur . , , Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Jaunpur Jaunpur. 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Karakat Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Karakat Tahsil. 

Sub-Divisional Alagistrate having Alariahu Tahsil 

jurisdiction over Munaliu Tahsil. 

Additional Sub-Divisional Alagisttatc, Shahganj Tahsil. 
having jurisdiction over Shahganj 
Tahsil. 

Sub-Divisional Alagisirarc having Machhli Shahr Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Machhli Sbahar 


Jhansi City. 

Alau-cum-Garotha Sub-divi- 
sion. 

Jhansi suh-division (excluding 
Jhansi city'). 

Moth sub-diviBion. 

Lalitpur sub-division. 




1478 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II— Sec- 3 


i 


2 


3 


Ghazipur . . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ghazipur 

sub-division. 


Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Moham- 
madabad sub-division. 



Sub-Divisional 

sub-division. 

Magistrate, 

Zamania 


Sub-divisional 

sub-division. 

Magistrate, 

Saidpur 

Ballia 

. Sub-Divisional 
sub-division. 

Magistrate, 

Ballia 


Sub-Divisional 

sub-division 

Magistrate, 

Bansdih 


Sub-Divisional 

sub-division. 

Magistrate, 

Rasra 

Gorakhpur 

. . City Magistrate, 

Gorakhpur. 



Sub-Divisional 

Magistrate, 

Gorakh- 


pur sub-divisipn. 


Basti 


Azamgarh 


DeoriaJ . 


Nainital 


Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bansgaon 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisioanl Magistrate, Maharaj- 
ganj sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Pharcnda 
sub-division. 

. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Bansi 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate Basti 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Domaria- 
ganj sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Harraiya 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Nowgarh 
Sub-division 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Khalilabad 
sub-division. 

. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar sub- 
division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Moham- 
madabad sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Phulpur 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ghosi 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Lalganj 

sub-division. 

Sub-divisional Magistrate, Sagri 

sub-division. 

. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Deoria 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Salempur 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Hata sub- 
division. 

Sub-divisional Magistrate, Padrauna 
sub-division. 

. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, ^having 

jurisdiction over Nainjtai Tehsil. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, having 
jurisdiction over Peshkaries of Kala 
danghi, Sittarganj and Khatima 
Tahsils Jaldv.ani and Kichha. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kashipur 


Ghazipur sub-diviBion. 
Mohammadabad sub-division. 
Zamania sub-division. 

Saidpur sub-division. 

Ballia sub-division. 

Bansdih Sub-division. 

Raara Sub-division. 

Gorakhpur Kotwali and 
Cantonment areas. 
Gorakhpur sub-division (ex- 
cluding areas of Gorapkh- 
pur Kotwali and Can- 
tonment.) 

Bansgaon sub-division. 
Maharajganj Sub-division. 
Pharcnda sub-division. 

Bans! sub-division 
Basti Sub-Division 
Domariaganj sub-division. 
Harraiya sub-division. 
Nowgarh sub-division. 
Khalilabad sub-division. 

Sadar sub-division. 
Mohammadabad sub-division. 
Phulpur sub-division. 

Ghosi sub-division. 

Lalganj sub-division. 

Sagri sub-division. 

Deoria sub-division. 

Salempur sub-division. 

Hata sub-division. 

Padrauna sub-division. 

Naivital Tahsil. 

Peshkaries of Kaladanghi, 
Sittarganj and Khatima 
Tahsils Haldwani and 
Kichha. 

Peshkaries of Ramnagar, Baz- 

, T ... 




Part II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE Op INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


1479 


i 


2 


3 


Almora . 


•Garhwal 


Tehri 


Lucknow . 


Unnao 


Rae Bareli 


Sitapur 


tlar ioi 


Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Baraman- Baramandal sub-division, 
dal sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Pali sub- Pali sub-division, 
division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Lohaghat Lohaghat sub-division, 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Pithora- Pithoragarh sub-division, 
garh sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Lansdowne lansdowne sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Chamoli sub- Chamoli sub-division, 
division, 

Sub-Divisional Officer Baransyam Baransym sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Maistratc, Tehri. Tehri and Pratarnagar 

Tahsils and Dhanolti Pesh- 
kari. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Uki. Uki Peshkari and Rawain Tah- 

sil. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate Kirtinagar. Devaprayag Tahsil. 

City Magistrate-cum-Sub-Divisional Narendranagar and Patties 
Magistrate, Narendranagar. of Kunjani and Dhamad- 

syun. 

District Relief and Rehabilitation Lucknow District. 

Officer and Settlement Officer. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Safipur Safipur sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate and Settle- Unnao sub-divi9ion, 
ment Officer (Consolidation), Un- 
nao sub-division. 

Sub-divisional Magistrate, Hasanganj Hasanganj sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Purwa Purwa sub-division 
sub-division. 

Additional Sub-Divisional Magistrate Unnao sub-dhision. 
and Judicial Officer, Unnao sub- 
division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Rae Bareli Rae Bareli sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Daimau Dalmau sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Saloni Saloni sub-division 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Maharaj- Maliarajganj sub-division, 
ganj sub-division. 

Additional District Magistrate and Sitapur sub-division. 
Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sitapur 
Sub-Division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sidhauli Sidhauli sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Biswan Biswan sub-division, 
sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Misrikh Misrikh sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Hardoi Hardoi sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Shahabad Shahabad sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sandila Sandila sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, and judicial Bilgram sub-division. 

Judicial Officer, Bilgram sub- 
division. 



1480 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 



Kheri . . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dakhim- Lakhimpur sub-division, 

pur sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Mohamdl Mohamdi sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, NighaBan Nighasan sub-division- 
sub-division. 

Fa'zabad . ■ . City Magistrate, Faizabad Faizabad and Ayodhya towns. 

Additional sub-Divisional Magistrate, Faizabad Tahsil (Sadar). 
having jurisdiction over Faizabad 
Tahsil (Sadar). 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, having Akbarpur Tahsil. 
jurisdiction over Akbarpur Tahsil, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, having Tanda Tahsil. 
jurisdiction over Tanda Tahsil. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate having Bikapur Tahsil. 
jurisdiction over Bikapur Tahsil. 

Gonda . . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Gonda Gonda sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dtraula Utraula sub-division 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Tarubganj Tarabganj sub-division, 
sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Balrampur Balrampur snb-division.- 
sub-division. 

Bahraich , . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, having Bahraich Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Bahraich Tahsil. 

Sub-divisional Magistrate having Kaiaarganj Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Kaisarganj Tahsil. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, having Nanpara Tahsil. 

jurisdiction over Nanpara Tahsil. 

Sub-Division. 

Sultanpur . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar sub- Sadar sub-division, 

division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kad ; ur Kadipur sub-division. 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Muzafir- Muzafirkhana sub-division, 

khana sub-division, 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Amethi Amethi sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Pratupgarh . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Patti Patti sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Kunda Eunda sub-division, 

sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Tahsil Tahsil Sadar sub-division, 
Sadar sub-division, 

Bara Banki . . Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Nawab- Navvabganj sub-division, 

ganj sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Farch- Fatehpur sub-division, 

pur sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Ram Ram Sanehi Ghat sub-division. 
Sunclii Ghat sub-division. 

Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Haider- Ilaidcrgarh sub-division, 
garh sub-division 

[No. io/3/56(i)-IC.] 

S.R.O. 1958, — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules^ 1956, the 
Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 1 of the Schedule 
hereto annexed to perform in the State of Madhya Pradesh the functions of the Collector under 
the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding entry in column 2 
of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Designation ol Officer Area 

1 2 


All Sub-Divisional Officers. The area within their respective 

jurisdiction. 


[No. 10/3/56(11)- IC.] 



Part II— ^ec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1481 


S.R.O. 1959. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956, the 
Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column x of the Schedule 
hereto annexed to perform in the State of Bombay the functions of the Collector under the said 
Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding entry in column 2 of 
the said Schedule. 


Schedule 


Designation of Officer 

I 


Area 

2 


Administrator, Ulhasnagar 
Township. 


Ulhasnagar Towns flip, District 
Thana. 


Administrator, 

Sardarnagar Township. 


Sardarnagur Township, District 
Ahmedabad. 


[No. 10/3/56 (iii)-IC.) 


S.R.O. i960. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956, the Cen- 
tral Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 1 of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of Patiala and East Punjab Slates Union the functions of the 
Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding 
entry in column 2 of the said Schedule, 

Schedule 


Designation of Officer 
1 


Area 

2 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

10 

11 

12 


Sub-Divisional Officer, Barnala 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jind 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Malerkotla. 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Kandaghat 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Matisa 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Faridkot. . 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Bassi. 

Extra Assistant Commissioners, Patiala 
Extra Assistant Commissioner, Kapurthala. 
Extra Assistant Commissioners, Bhatinda 
Extra Assistant Commissioner, Narnaul. . 
Extra Assistant Commissioner, Sangrur . 


1 


V Within their respective jurisdic- 
tion. 


j 


[No, 1 0/3/56 (iv)-IC.] 


S.R.O. 1961. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956, the 
Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column 1 of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of West Bengal the functions of ihe Collector under the said 
Rules in respect of the area specified against him in the entry in column 2 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Designation of Officer 
1 


Area 

2 


Deputy Controller, Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation, Ranaghat Sub-division, Nadia 
Ranaghat (Nadia) District, 


[No. io/ 3 /jfi(v)-IC, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


X482 


CORRIGENDUM 

SJt.O. 1962.— In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. 10/3/66- (Hi) — IC, dated the 1st 
August. 1956, published at page 1364 of the Gazette of India, Part II Section 3. 
dated the 11th August, 1956 and corrected by Corrigendum No. 10/3/56-IC, dated 
the 14th August, 1966, published at page 1406 of the Gazette of India, Part II 
Section 3, dated the 25th August, 1966, in items 6C and 12 /or “Sub-Divisional 
Relief Officers” read “Sub-Divisional Relief and Rehabilitation Officers”. 

[No. 10/3/50- (vi) -IC.] 
FATEH SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi-2, the 4th September 1956 

SJt.O. 1963. — In pursuance of the. provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Govern- 
ment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956-57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner, Ajmer, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 29,400 (Rupess twenty- 
nine thousands and four hundred only). 

[No. 13/13/56-Ac.IIU).] 

SJt.O. 1964.— In pursuance, of the provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Govern- 
ment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the years 1956-57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner, Bhopal, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 42,100 (Rupees forty- 
two thousands and one hundred only). 

[No. 13/13/56-A0.II(2).]' 

SJt.O. 1965. — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Gov- 
ernment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1950-57 relating to the Office, of the 
Chief Commissioner, Coorg, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 36,800 (Rupees thirty- 
six thousands and eight hundered only). 

[No. 13/ 13/56- Ac.II(3).] 

SJt.O. I960.— In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Gov- 
ernment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956-57 relating to the Office of the 
Chief Commissioner, Delhi, other than the emoluments and allowances of the 
Chief Commissioner, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 60,500 (Rupees fifty 
thousands and five hundred only). 

[No. 13/13/56-Ac.II(4).] 

S.R.O. 1967. — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Gov- 
, eminent of Part C States Act 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased 
to determine that the expenditure for the year 1956-57 relating to the office of 
the Lieutenant Governor, Himachal Pradesh other than the emoluments and 
allowances of the Lieutenant Governor, shall be an amount not more, than 
Rs. 46,100 (Rupees forty-six thousands and one hundred only). 

[No. 13/13/56- Ac.II(5).] 

S.R.O. 1968. — In pursuance of the provisions of Section 28(3) (a) of the Gov- 
ernment of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951), the President is pleased to 
determine that the expenditure for the year 1956-57 relating to the Office of the 
Lieutenant Governor, Vindhya Pradesh other than the emoluments and allowances 
of the Lieutenant, Governor, shall be an amount not more than Rs. 94,900 
(Rupees ninety-four thousands and nine hundred only.) 

[No. 13/13/56-Ac.II(6).] 
HARI SHARMA, Jt. Secy. 



Part II— SEc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1483 

_ . - — 

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1969. — In pursuance of sub-Section (2) of Section 4 of the Port Haj 
Committees Act, 1932 (XX of 1932), the Central Government Is pleased to nomi- 
nate Shri D. D, Sethna, Regional Traffic Superintendent Western Railway, Bom- 
bay as a member of the Port Haj Committee, Bombay vice Shri B. N. Wahal. 

[No. 547-W ANA/56.] 

MOHD. YUNUS, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi , the 28th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1970/APP/CGE/56/4. — Shri K. Ram, Joint Secretary to the Government 
of India in the Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi, has taken over the func- 
tions of the Controller General of Emigration with the Government of India, with 
effect from the 6th August 1956, vice Shri M. R. A. Baig. 

[No. F.4-40/66-Emi.], 
P. SOMASEKHARAN, Under Secy- 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 

S.R.O. 1971. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
4 of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, and of all other powers enabling in this- 
behalf, the Central Government sincerely orders that the President of the Perma- 
nent Commission of the Representative Assembly Pondicherry shall receive a 
remuneration of Rs. 200 per month, with effect from 20th August, 1966 in addition 
to the salary and allowances admissible to him as Member of the Representative 
Assembly, Pondicherry, vide this Ministry’s Notification No. S.R.O. (F. 10-103/55- 
GP) [FjA- 4(I)], dated 2nd January, 1956. 

[No. 597/B6-GP.J 
MAHBOOB AHMED, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 

S.R.O. 1972. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India as required under clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution in 
respect of persons employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, th» 
President hereby makes the following amendments in the Civil Service Regulations, 
namely: — 

In the said Regulations, after article 357-B, the following articles shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

“357-C. Civil employees other than those, governed by Article 357-D, who,, 
prior to their civil appointment against war-reserved and other permanent 
vacancies which arose for direct recruitment before the 1st January 1948, had 
rendered satisfactory paid whole-time, enlisted or commissioned ‘war service' 
between thei 3rd September 1939 and the 1st April, 1943, in the Armed Forces of 
India or similar Forces of a Commonwealth country which did not earn a service 
pension under the Military, Naval or Air Force Rules shall be allowed to count 
such ‘war service’ including sick leave taken during such service, for the purpose 
of civil pension, subject to the following conditions: — 

(1) Completed years of the said ‘war service’ shall be allowed to count up to 
a maximum of five years. 

(2) In the case of Services/Posts in which a minimum age is fixed for recruit- 
ment no ‘war service’ rendered below that age shall be allowed to count for 
pension, and in the case of Services/Posts in which no minimum age is fixed, no 
portion of ‘war service’ rendered before attaining the age of 20 or 18 as the cas* 



1484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 [Part II— Sec, 3 


may be according as the Services/Posts are Classes I to HI or Class IV shall be 
allowed to count for pension. 

(3) The addition of ‘war service* shall not be included in total service under 
Article 408 of these Regulations for the purpose of counting leave as service for 
pension. 

(4) ‘War service* rendered in the Armed Forces of India and rendered in 
similar Forces of a Commonwealth country shall be allowed to count alike for 
pension; no contribution towards, or share of, a pension earned as a result of this 
concession being claimed from the foreign government concerned. 

(5) No refund of bonus or gratuity paid to the employees in respect of such 
‘war service* shall be demanded from the employees. 

867-D. Members of the Services specified in the Schedule below who, prior to 
their appointment to those Services/Posts against war-reserved and other perma- 
nent vacancies which arose for direct recruitment before, the 1st January 1948 
had rendered satisfactory, paid whole-time, enlisted or commissioned 'war service’ 
between the 3rd September 1939 and the 1st April 1946 in the Armed Forces of 
India or similar Forces of a Commonwealth country which did not earn a service 
pension under the Military, Naval or Air Force Rules may count such ‘war 
service’ including sick leave taken during such service, for civil pension of all 
kinds subject to the following conditions: — 

(1) Completed years of ‘war service’ rendered after the attainment of the 
minimum ag[e mentioned in the Schedule to this Article shall be allowed to count 
up to a maximum of five years. 

(2) The addition so made shall not be included in total service under Article. 
408 of these Regulations for the purpose of counting leave as qualifying for pension. 

(3) ‘War service’ rendered in the Armed Forces of India and that rendered in 
similar Forces of a Commonwealth country shall be allowed to count alike for 
pension; no contribution towards, or a share of, a pension earned as a result of 
this concession being claimed from the foreign government’ concerned. 

(4) No refund of bonus or gratuity paid to the employees in respect of such 
*war service’ shall be demanded from the employees. 

Schedule 


Service or post 


Minimum Age 


Indian Audit & Accounts Service. 

21 

years 

Indian Customs Service. 

21 

years 

Indian Defence Accounts Service. 

21 

years 

Indian Income-Tax Service. 

21 

years 

Assistant Master, India Security Press. 

24 

years 

Assistant Master, India Government Mint. 

24 

years 

Editor, -'India Speaks”. 

24 

years 

Indian Meteorological Service. 

23 

years 

Assistant Electrical & Mechanical Officer, Civil Aviation 



Department. 

25 

years 

Senior Aircraft Inspector, Civil Aviation Department. 

30 

years 

Aircraft Inspector, Civil Aviation Department. 

28 

years 

Research Officer, Pathology < Poultry Research Section), 



Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. 

25 

years 


[No. F. 1 1 (21 ) -EV/58 .] 
J. C. SEN, Dy. Secy. 



Part I] — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1485 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 6th September, 1956 

S.R.O. 1973. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the 
Banking Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government, on the 
recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declare that the provi- 
sions of section 11 of the said Act shall not apply to the Bareilly Bank (Private) 
Ltd,, Bareilly, for a period up to and including the 31st March 1957. 

[No. F, 4(81) -FI/60.] 
J, L. KUNDU, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 3rd September, 1956 

S.R.O. 1974. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Public Debt 
Rules, 1946, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by Section 28 of the Public Debt Act, 1944 (18 of 1944), is hereby 
published as required by sub-scction ( 1 ) of that section for the information of 
all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th September, 1950. 

Any objection or suggestion received from any persons with respect to the 
said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Gov- 
ernment. 


Draft Amendments 

In the said Rules: — 

(1) In rule 1, for sub-rule(2), the following sub-rule shall be substituted 
namely: — 

“(2) — These rules shall come into force on the 1st May, 1948”, 

(2) In sub-rule (5) of rule 3, for the words and figure “Ruler of a Part B 
State”, the words “Ruler of a former. Indian State”, shall be substituted; 

(3) In rule 6— 

(a) in the heading, for the words “Ruler of a State” the words “Ruler of a 
former Indian State” shall be substituted; 

(b) in sub-rule (1) for the words “Ruler of a State in India”, the words 
■“Ruler of a former Indian State” shall be substituted. 

(4) in sub-rule (4) of rule 7 for the words and figure "Ruler of a Part B State”, 
the words “Ruler of a former Indian State” shall be substituted; 

(5) in sub-rule (2) (b) (iii) of rule 8, after the word “Governor", the words 
“or Rajpramukh, as the case may,” shall be inserted; 

(0) in rule 9— 

(a) in sub-rule ( 1 ) (a) , the words “the States of” shall be omitted; 

<b) for sub-rule (2) the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(2) Stock— Interest on stock shall be paid by warrants issued by the 
Public Debt Office and payable at the local office of the Bank or if 
the holder so desires by money order after deducting the commission 
charges. Such warrants may at the request of the holder of the stock 
preferred in writing to the Public Debt office, be made payable sub- 
ject to compliance by the holder with such formalities as the Public 
Debt Office may require, 

(a) in the case of stock of a loan of the Central Government at any other 

Indian Office of the Reserve Bank of India or any agency thereof 
conducting Government treasury business or at any treasury or sub- 
treasury in India; 

(b) in the case of stock of a loan of a State Government at any other Indian 

office of the Reserve Bank of India or any agency thereof conducting 
treasury business in the State concerned of any treasury or sub- 
treasury within that State. 

The presentation of stock certificate shall not be required at the time of 
payment of interest, but the payee shall acknowledge receipt at the 
back of the warrant”,; 

( 0 ) in sub-rule (4), for the words “or Madras”, the words “Madras or 
Bangalore” shall be substituted. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


i486 


(7) In rule 22— 

(a) in sub-rule (3)' (il), the words", or in the case of a Part B State, the 
Political Agent” shall be omitted; 

(b) in sub-rule (5) (li) (a), the words "or the Political Agent, as the case 
may be” shall be omitted; 

(8) in sub-rule (!) (b) (ii) of rule 24, after the words “Governor”, the words- 
“or Rajpramukh, as the case may be,” shall be inserted. 

(9) in the proviso to sub-rule 3 of rule 29 for the word "little”, the word 
“title’ 5 shall be substituted; 

(10) in proviso (b) to rule 31 — 

(a) for the words “Imperial Bank of India”, the words “the State Bank of 
India” shall be substituted; 

(b) in the bracket, before the word ‘or’ the words “or the Imperial Bank of 
India" may be inserted; 

(11) In the schedule, in Form I — 

(a) for the words “Rulers of States in India”, the words “Rulers of former 
Indian States” shall be substituted; 

(b) for the words “Governor General of India in Council” wherever they 
occur, the words “President of India” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. 7 (33J-B/56.] 


S.R.O. 1975. — The following draft of an amendment to the Public Debt 
(Annuity Certificates) Rules, 1954, which thei Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public Debt Act, 
1944 (18 of 1944), is hereby published as required by sub-section (1) of that 
section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th September, 1950. 

Any objection or suggestion received from any person with respect to the- 
said draft before the date' so specified will be considered by the Central Govern- 
ment. 


Draft Amendment 

In sub-rule (2) of rule 1 of the said rules— 

(a) Clause (i) shall be omitted; 

(b) in clause (ii), the brackets and figures “(ii)” shall be omitted. 

[No. F.7(33)~B/50.I 


S.R.O. 1970. — The following draft of an amendment to the Pubilc Debt 
(Compensation Bonds) Rules, 1954, which the Central Government proposes to 
make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Public Debt Act, 
1944 (18 of 1944), is hereby published as required by sub-section (1) of that 
Section for the information 01 all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th September, 1956. 

Any objection or suggestion received from any person with respect to the aaid' 
dxaft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 

In the said rules, for sub-rule (2) of rule 1 the following sub-rule shall be- 
substituted, namely: — 

“(2) They shall apply to a Government Security in the form of a bond 
issued under section 2(2) (b) of the Act.” 


[No. F.7(33)-B/50.J 
K. C. DAS, Under Secy, 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1487 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi , the 1st September. 1956 

S.R.O. 1917. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
641 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Central Government makes the 
following alterations in Schedule IX to the said Act, namely: — 

In Form of Proxy No. II, an asterisk should be inserted against the WOTds 
“Form for affording members an opportunity of voting for or against a resolution 
at the head of the form, and the following shall be inserted as a foot note at the 
end of the form: — 


“♦This form is to be used - ^~j ^gain st~~~ the resolution. 

Unless otherwise instructed the proxy will act as he thinks fit. 

* Strike out whichever is not desired,” 

[No. 3/17/66-PR.] 
F. N. SANYAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE) 

Central Excises 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 


S.R.O. 1978. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 8 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi- 
cherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue 
Division) No. CER-8(5)/66, dated the 1st March, 1950, namely: — 

For the words and figures “the first 125 tons”, occurring in part (i) of the 
said notification, the words and figures “a quantity not exceeding 
125 tons” shall be substituted. 


[No. CER-8(21)/66.] 


S.R.O. 1970.— -In excicise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central Excises and 
Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in force in India, and us applied to the State of Pondicherry, the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Central Excise Rule#, 
1944, namely :— 

In the said Rules — . 


1. For sub-rule (1) of rule 175, the following sub-rule shall be substituted, namely : — • 

"(1) Every person desiring to engage in operations requiring the possession of a licence a# 
aforesaid shall apply in writing every year for a licence or renewal thereof to the licens- 
ing authority who shall be such officer as the Central Board of Revenue may authorise 
in this behalf.” 

2, For (he Table subjoined to sub-rule (2) of rule 176, the following Table shall be subs- 
tituted : — 


“Table 


Rupees 


I. Unmanufactured products : 

1) A curer who intends to (a) one hundred, or more Five, 

cure in the following yeai . than one hundred, stan- 

dard maundtj ; 

(6) less than one hundred Nil. 

standard maunds ; 




1488 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part n — S ec. 3 


Rupee*. 


(a) A wholesale dealer in' 
unmanufactured tobacco 
who purchases for the 
purpose of trade or manu- 
facture. 

(3) A wholesale dealer In 
other unmanufactured 
products who purchases 
from a curer. 


(a) two thousand, or more 
than two thousand, stan- 
dard maunds ; 

(ft) more than one thou- 
sand, but less than . two 
thousand, standard 
maunds ; 

(c) more than five hun- 
dred, but not more than 
one thousand, standard 
maunds. 

(d) more than two hund- 
1 ed and fifty, but not 
more than five hundred 
standard maunds ; 


Of such products One 
during the 12 hundred, 
months preceding 
the 1st day of Oct- 
ober pilot' to the 
year for which the Fifty, 
licence is to be gran- 
ted. 


Twenty (lye 


Ten. 


(t) more than fifty, but not 
more than two hundred 
and fifty standard mau- 
nds. 


Five. 


(f) fifty standard maunds 
or less. 


One. 


(4) A broker or commission'! 

agent dealing in unmanu- | 
factured tobacco, who | 
broke*. I 

(5) A broker or commission Y 
agent dealing in other 
unmanufactured products 
who negotiates the pur- 
chase, from a curer, or 


(S) The holder of a private 
bonded storeroom or 
warehouse which houses. 


(a) two thousand, or more' 
than two thousand stand- 
ard maunds ; 

(ft) more than one thou- 
sand, but less than two 
thousand standard mau- 
nds ; 


Of such products Fifty, 
during the 12 mon- 
ths preceding the 
1st day of October 
prior to die year Twentd’jve. 
for which the li- 
cence Is to be gran- 
ted. 


(c) more than five hund- 
red, but not more than 
one thousand, standard 
maunds j 


(d) more than two hun- 
dred and fifty, but not 
more than five hundred, 
standard maunds ; 


(a) two hundred and fifty Y 
standard maunds or less. I 


Ten. 


Five. 


One. 


(a) two thousand, or 
more than two thousand, 
standard maunds ; 

(ft) more than five hund- 
red, but less than two 
thousand, standard mau- 
nds ; 

(c) more than one hund- 
red, but not more than 
five hundred, standard 
maunds ; 

(rf) one hundred standard I 
maunds or less. J 


Twer 

five, 


Ten. 


Five. 


One 



Part H— Sic. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1950 1489 


Rupees, 


II. Manufacturtd product! : 


A manufacturer — 

if the duty paid by him during the 12 months preceding the lot day of 
•ctobor prior to the year for which the licence is to be renewed is — 

S i) more than Rs, 25,000 ....... One hundred. 

»0 more than Rs. 10,000 but not more than Rs. 25,000 . Fifty. 

iii) more than Rs. 5,000 but not more than Rs. 10,000 Twenty-five, 

to) more than Rs, 1000 but not more than Rb. 5 , 000 . . . Ten. 

v) nil, or not more than Rs. 1,000 ...... Five. 

III. A manufacturer of splints and veneers or composition for match heads One hundred. 

IV. The use of i-vrbatiU ®nodq without payment of duty for special indus- 
trial purposes (Rule 192 ). ....... One hundred. 


Explanation. — In respect of a new applicant, or where a licence has to be issued in respect of a 
commodity on which an excise duty has been imposed for the first time during the middle of the 
year prior to the year for which the licence is to be granted, the duty or quantity for the purpose 
of determining the licence fee shall be the duty or quantity ‘as may be estimated by the licensing 
authority on the basis of such information as may be available to him. 

3 . In Appendix I for Item 7 in the Schedule appended to Form A.L. 4 
(Central Excise Series No. 6 ), the following item shall be substituted, namely — 

“7. Excisable goods cleared on payment of duty by the manufacturer 
during the twelve months preceding the 1st day of October for 
which the licence is to be granted or renewed — 

(a) Quantity 

(b) Amount of duty”. 

4. The amendments hereby made shall apply to all licences renewed or issued 
•on or after the date of this notification. 

[No. 10-CER/56.] 


New Delhi, the 8 th September 1960 

S.R.O. 1980. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely:— 

In rule 97 of the said Rules — 

( 1 ) for clause (i) of the first proviso, the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(i) the goods are returned to the factory within one year of the date of 
payment of duty or within such further period or periods not exceed- 
ing six months in the aggregate as the Collector may, on sufficient 
cause being shown, permit in any particular case;” 

( 2 ) in clause (vii) of the same proviso, for the word “rupees one hundred”, 
th© words “rupees fifty” shall be substituted. 

[No. 12-CER/50.] 


SJt.O. 1981. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following fur- 
Hier amendment in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

To rule 49 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

"Provided further that the proper officer may not demand duty due on 
any goods claimed by the manufacturer as unfit for consumption or 
for marketing, subject to such conditions as may be imposed by the 
Collector by order in writing.” 


[No. 13-CER/56.] 
B. N. BANERJI, Joint Secy. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 [Part II — Sic. 3 


Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 

S.Itf.O. J982. — In exercise of tfie powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following fur- 
ther amendment in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

In rule 232 of the said Rules, after the words “as such officer,” the following 
words shall be inserted, namely: — 

“or in pursuance of such special or general directions as may be issued by 
the Central Board of Revenue/’ 

[No. ll-CER/56.] 
L. S. MARTI! AND AM, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 
Stamps 1 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1983. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central 
Government hereby remits the whole of the stamp duty chargeable under the 
xaid Act on the lease deed dated the 28th July, 1956, executed by the High Com- 
mission for the United Kingdom in India in respect of the premises comprising 
two flats at 38, Sundar Nag'ar, New Delhi. 

[No. 14/F.No. 8/12/56-Stamps.] 
New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 

S.R.O. 1984. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the stamp duty chargeable on the following documents executed or 
made by a banking company (as defined in the Banking Companies Act, 1949), 
in liquidation in the course of the liquidation proceedings in the States of Delhi, 
Ajmer and Coorg, namely:— 

Every transfer, mortgage, assignment, power of attorney, proxy paper, 
certificate, affidavit, bond or othor proceedings, instrument or writing 
whatsoever before or under any order of the Court, and (copies) 
thereof. 

[ No. F.15/9/53-Stamps.] 
M. R. RAMACHANDRAN, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 
Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 23rd August 1956 

S.R.O. 1985. — The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Income-tax Rules, 1922, whicn the Central Board of Revonue proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 69 of the 
Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), Is published as required by sub- 
section (4) of the said section, for the information of persons likely to be affected 
thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consi- 
deration on or after 31st October, 1956. 

2, Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any perso* 
with respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be cioasidered by 
the said Board, 



Faht II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1491 

= = - ~ ■- ~ - — — = = 

Draft Amendment 

In rule 43 -A of the said Rules, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 
“43-A. The return under section 20A shall be in the following form and 
shall, in the case of a company, be delivered by its Principal Officer 
to the Income-tax Officer having jurisdiction for the time b^ing to 
assess the Company, and in other cases to the Income-tax Officer 
in whose jurisdiction the person responsible for paying interest, 
resides: — 

Return under section 20A, of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922 for the 
- year 1st April, 19 To 31st March, 19 

Name of payer. 

Address of payer. 





1 

Amount of interest 

Serial 

Name of payee 

Address of 

Date of pay- 

or aggregate 

No. 


payee 

ment 

interest. 


I 

I. the Principal Officer of the Company hereby 

certify that the above statement contains a complete list of persons to 
whom interest or aggregate interest exceeding Rs. 400 (regardless of any interest 

paid to me ) was paid during the period 1st April, 19 to 31st 

the company 
March, 19 

Dated 19 ... . Signature.” 


[No. 58.] 

P. N, DAS GUPTA, Secy. 


Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1956 

S.R.0. 1986— In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 175 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, and 
the supersession of its notification No. 9 — Central Excises, dated the 14th May 1950, the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby authorises the Central Excise Officers specified in columns 2 and 3 of 
in schedule hereto annexed to issue and renew respectively the types of licences in respect of the 
excisable goods mentioned in the corresponding entries in column 1 thereof : — 

’ Schedule 


Licences 


Licensing Authority Reviewing Authority 


1 


2 


3 


Any officer not below 
the rank oi — 

1. Unmanufactured Products — 

(1) A curcr who Intends to cure in 
tho following year — 

(a) not less than one hundred A Superintendent. 

standard maunds : 

(b) less than one hundred stan- An Inspector, 
dard mau*ds 


Any officer not below 
the rank of — 


An Inspector. 
An Inspector. 




1492 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1966 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


i 


a 


3 


a. A wholesale dealer or broker or A Superintendent. A Superintendent. Provided 
commission agent dealing in un- that, where no change in 11- 

manufactured products. cence fee is involved such a 

licence may be renewed by an 
officer not below the rahk of 
an Inspector. 


3 The holder of a private bonded 
warehouse which houses — 


(a) not less than two thousand 
standard maunds. 

(f>) less than two thousand 
standard maunds, 

4. The holder of A curets private 
bonded store-room. 


An Assistant Collector A Superintendent. 
A Superintendent A Superintendent. 
An Inspector An Inspector, 


II. Manufactured products — 

If the licence fee payable annually is — 
{a) rupees one hundred 
(b) not more than rupees fifty 
but more than rupees ten 
ic'' ru pees ten or below 

III. A user of excisable goods without 
payment of duty for special indus- 
try purposes. 


The Collector. 

An Assistant Collec- 
tor. 

A Superintendent 
The Collector 


The Collector. 

An Assistant Collector. 

A Superintendent 
The Collector. 


[No. CBS 175 (D/56] 

S. K. BHATTACHARJEB, Dy. Secy. 


Income-Tax 

New Delhi , the 27th August 1966 

S.R.O. 1987. In pursuance of sub-section (6) of section 5 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922. 
(XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the following farther amendments 
shall he made in t(ic Schedule appended to its notification S.R.O. 1214 (No. 44— Income-taxi 
dated the ist July, 1952, namely : — 

In the said Schedule : — 

(i) after serial No. 58-A, the following items shall be inserted, namely r — 


1 


2 


3 


4 


S 6 


58-B 


Employees of Income-tax Offi- Inspecting Assis- 
Forcign Diplo- cer Private Salary rant Commissioner 
matic Missions Circle 1, Delhi. Delhi Range II, 
Consulates & New Delhi. . 

'Trade Com- 
missioner and 
:all other em- 

f loyecs of the 
orcign Govts, 
having their 
offices in and 
residing in Delhi, 

Aimer,Ruasthan 
and Madhya 
Bharat, 


Appellate 
Assistant com- 
missioner ‘C’ Do. 
Ra .gc New Delhi. 



In column 4, against S. No. 58-A, for “Inspecting Assistant Cam nissioner, Rang® I, 
substitute “Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Delhi Range II, New Delhi . 

[No. 60 (J5/92/54-IT)) 


Past II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1493 


CORRIGENDUM 

B.R.O. 1888.— In the notlflcatian of the Central Board of Revenue S.R.O. 1388 
published in part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India, dated the 27th June 1955 
under column 6— 


for 

"The Co mmiss ioner of Income-tax, Ajmer, Rajasthan and Madhya Bharat”. 

read 

'The Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi”. 

[No. 69, (56/92/54-TT).] 


B. V. MUNDKUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1958 

S.R.O. 1989. — In exercise of the power conferred by sub-clause (i) of clause 5 
of the Cotton Textiles (Export Control) Order, 1949, the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made In Notification 
No. S.R.O. 1317 dated the 9th June 1956, namely:— 

In the said notification, in para. 1 for the word, letters and figures "1st June 
1986" the word, letters and figures "1st October 1956” shall be substituted. 

[No. 46(34)-CT(A)/52-33.J 

V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 


S.R.O. 1990 /E8S.COMM /IRON & STEEL-2 (c) /AM (6) .—In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-clause (c) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1958, as applied to the State of Pondicherry the Central Government here- 
by directs (hat the following further amendment shall be made to the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O. 
1112/ESS.COMM/IRON & STEEL-2(c), dated the 8th May, 1950, namely:— 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, after the entries relating to 
'PEPSU', the following entries shall be inserted, namely: — 


i 


2 


3 


Pondicherry . . Director of Industries, Pondicherry . 4, 5, 18 and 20. 


[No. F.IS (A) -4 (253) /56.] 

S.R.O. i991/ESS.COMM/lRON AND STEEL/AM(1). — In exercise of powers 
conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), as 
applied to the State of Pondichcr y, the Central Government hereby directs that 
the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 1956, and the notifications issued thereunder 
and specified in Column 2 of the table hereto annexed, shall also apply to the 
said State. 


Table 


Provisions of the Iron and Steel • 
(Control) Order, 1956, 
under which notifications were 
issued 

Number and date of the notifications 


1. Under Clauses 4 and 5 

2. Under Clauses 14(2) and 26(2) 

No. S.R.O. mo/ESS. COMM/IRON & STEEL 4 &; 
dated the 8th May, 1956. 

No. S.R.O. 1111/ESS. COMM/IRON & STEEL 
iaO'' A 26(2), dated the 8th May, 1956. 



1494 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. a 


3. Under Clauses 15(1) and 27 (1) . No. S.R.O. 1113/ESS. COAIM/IRON & STEEL 15(1) 

and 27(1), dated the 8th May, 1956, as amended by 
Notifications' No. S.R.O. 1351/ESS. COMM/IRON 
& STEEL 15(1) and 27(i)/Am (1), dated the 9th 
Tune, 1956 and No. S.R.O. 1886/ESS. COMM / 
IRON & STEEL-I5 (i) & 27 (1 )/ Am(2), dated the 
23rd August, 1956. 


[No, F.IS(A)-4(304)/56.] 
P, S. V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 

S.R.O. 1992. — In pursuance ot sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1055, the Indian Standards 
Institution notifies that the marking fee per unit for Aluminium Sheets, Strips and 
Circles, Grade A and Grade B, details of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed, has been determined and it shall come into force with effect from 10th 
September 1956. 


The Schedule 


Product/Class of Products No. and Title of Relevant Unit Marking fee 

Indian Standard per unit 


Aluminium Sheets, Strips and Circles IS: 21-1953 Specification for One ton Rs. 2. 
—Grade A and Grade B. Wrought Aluminium for Uten- 

sils. 


D. V. Karmarkar, 
Deputy Director (Marks), 
Indian Standards Institution. 


[No. MDC/11(6).] 
P. V. B. MENON, Under Secy. 

ministry of heavy industry 

New Delhi , the 4th September 1950 

S.R.O. 1993/ESS.COMM/IRON & STEEL-2 (c)/AM(7).— In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-clause (c) of clause (2) of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956, the Central Government hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No, S.R.O. 11 12/ESS. COMM/ERON&STEEL- 
2(c), dated the 8th May, 1956, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification after the entries relating to 
‘MADHYA BHARAT’ the following entries shall" be inserted, namely: — 



I 

2 

3 

Manipur 


. Assistant Secretary (Co-ordination) to the 
Government of Manipur. 

4, 1 , 18, and 20. 


[No. F.IS(A)-4(253)/36.] 
P. S. V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 



Par* II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 


1495 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 

S.R.O, 1994. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 5 of Sugar (Control) Order* 
1955, and in partial modification of the Notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry 
•f Food and Agriculture No. S.R.O. 3 1028 and 2322 dated the 29th March, and nth July, 1954 
respectively, the Central Government is pleased to fix the Ax-factory price specified in Column 2 
of the Schedule annexed hereto for Indian Sugar Standard K-27 grade of such crystal sugar pro 
ducedin 1953-54 crushing season by the vacuum pan sugar factories specified in the corresponding 
entry in Column I of the said schedule : 

Provided that clauses (i) to tiv) of the proviso to the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture No. S.R.O. 1598, dated the 18th October, 1951 
regarding price differentials for other grades of crystal sugar and for various grades of refined 
and crushed sugar shall apply to this Notification : 

Provided further that the explanations I and II given in the said Notification shall also apply 
to this Notification : 


The Schedule 


Area and Name of sugar factory 

Ax-factory price per mound of 
82.2/7 ms. 

(I) 

(2) 

West Uttar Pradesh 



Rs. As. Ps. 

I, Baheri 

29 1 6 

2. Bareilly 

, , 28 0 0 

3. Rosa ...... 

. . 28 3 6 

Bhopal 


I. Schore 

O 

ts 

00 

<N 


ISV-ioi(i)/j 3-54-] 


T. C. PURI Jt. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 3Isf August 1950 

S.R.O. 1995. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Agricul- 
tural Produce (Development & Warehousing Corporations), Act 1956 (28 of I960)* 
the Central Government hereby directs that with effect from the 1st day of Sep- 
tember, 1959, there shall be established the "National Co-operative Development 
and Warehousing Board” consisting of the following members namely: — 

1. The Minister for Food & Agriculture in the Central 

Government. Ex-offlcio. 

2. Secretary, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, Govern- 

ment of India, ... „ 

3. Joint Secretary in charge of Cooperation, Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, Government of India, ... „ 

4. Secretary, Government of India. Ministry of Finance 

(Department of Economic Affairs). 

5. Financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food and Agricul- 

ture, Government of India. ... „ 

9. Secretary, Government of India, Ministry of Produc- 
tlon. 

7. Additional Member (Commercial) Railway Board, 

Government of India, 

8. Consulting Engineer, Road Development, Government 

of India, Ministry of Transport, 

9. Joint Secretary, In charge of Plan Co-ordination, Plan- 

ning Commission, Government of India, 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Sic. 3 


3496 


10, Joint Secretary, In charge of Small Scale Industries, 

Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry. 

Ex-officio. 

11. Chairman, Forward Markets Commission. 

12. Shri B. Venkatappiah, Deputy Governor, representing 

the Reserve Bank of India. 

13. Shri B, P, Patel, Managing Director, representing the 

State Bank of India. 

14. President, All India Co-operative Union, New Delhi. 

15. Professor M. L. Dantwala, Professor of Agricultural 

Economics, Bombay School of Economics and Socio- 
logy, Bombay, 

16. Shri G, Parameswaran Pillai, Chairman, State Co-opera- 

tive Advisory Council, Trivandrum. 

17. Shri R. G. Saraiya, Chairman, Bombay State Co-opera- 

tive Bank, Bombay. 

18. Professor D. G. Karve, Adviser, Reserve Bank of India, 

Bombay. 

19. Shri P. S. Rajagopal Naidu, M.P., President North 
Arcot District Co-operative Marketing and Supply 
Society, Vellore, 

20. Shri K. V. Shankar Gowda, M.L.A., Honorary Secretary, 

Ryots’ Multi-purpose Co-operative Society Ltd., 

Mandya (Mysore). 

21. Shri Tarapado Chaudhurl, Chairman, WeBt Bengal Pro- 

vincial Co-operative Bank, Calcutta. 

.22. Shri R. K. Patil, Civil Lines, Nagpur. 

[No. F.8-1 / 56-Coop .1.] 
KBISHAN CHAND, Joint Secy. 


(I.C.A.R.) 

New Delhi, the 17 th August 1956 

S.R-O. 1996. — In pursuance of Section 4(ix) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 
(XIV of 1923), the Central Government are pleased to appoint Shri M. Mallaraj 
Urs, Director of Agriculture, Government of Mysore, as the representative of the 
Mysore State on the Indian Central Cotton Committee, with effect Com the 1st 
April, 1956. 

[No. F.l-42/56-Com.n.J 

S.R.O. 1997. — In pursuance of Section 4(x) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 
(XIV of 1923), the Central Government hereby re-nominate Shri C. Jagannatha 
Rao, Deputy Director of Agriculture (Research), Kurnool, Andhra, as a member 
of the Indian Central Cotton Committee, for a pe.iod of one year with effect 
from the 1st April, 1956. 

[No. F.l-42/56-Com.II.] 

New Delhi, the 20 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 1998. — In pursuance of the provisions of Sub-section (f) of Section 4 

of the Indian Oilseeds, Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the State Government 

of Madhya Pradesh have nominated Shri Trimbak Dattatrya Deshmukh of Parwa, 
Tah. Kelapur, DIstt. Yeotmal, to be the member of the Indian Central Oilseeds 
Committee, with effect from the 1st April, 1956, for a term of three years. 

[No. 6-4/56-Com.I.] 

S.R.O 1999. — In pursuance of the provisions df Sub-section (e) of Section 4 
of the India Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the State Government 

of Madhya Pradesh have re-nominated the Director of Agriculture, Madhya Pra- 

desh, Nagpur, to be the member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, with 
effect from the 1st April, 1956 for a term of three years. 

[No. 6-3T55-Com.I.J 
MOKAND LALL, Under Secy. 



'Taht II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 1497 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 30th August 195b 

S.R.O. 2000. — It is hereby notified for general Information that in further modi- 
fication of this Ministry’s notification No. F.4-1/54-LSG, dated the 24th March, 
1954 and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Delhi Joint Water and Sewage Board Act, 1926, (23 of 1920), the 
Central Government have with effect from the 8th June, 1956 nominated Shri 
•O. V. Ramadorai, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, as a member of the 
Board in place of Shri S. K. Majumdar, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance 
(Delhi State) who has resigned. 


[No. F.13-119/58-LSG.] 
R. NARASIMHAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY Of TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1950 

S.R.O. 2001. — In pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 6 of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act, 1879 (Bombay Act VI of 1879), the Central Government hereby pub- 
lishes the following return received from the Secretary, the Millowners’ Associa- 
tion, Bombay namely: — 

Return showing the name of the person elected by the Millowners" Association , 
Bombay, in accordance with the provisions of section 13(1) of the Bombay Port 
Trust Act, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay in the 
temporary absence on leave of Shri Krishnaraj M. D. Thackersey. 


Due of 

Name of the person 

elecdon 

elected 

13th August 1956 

Shri Vithal N. Chandavarkar 


[No. 8-C.PK85) /68.] 
D. A. R. WARRIAR, Under Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2002.— In the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of Trans- 
port No. S.R O. 2133, dated the 1st October, 1955. published at pages 1931 — 1942 of 
the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, dated trie 1st October It 55 at page 1931. 
for “and No. 4-FII(l)/53, dated the 29th September 1953” read “No. 4-PII(l)/53, 
dated the 29th September, 1953 and No. 3-PII(144)/54, dated the 23rd March 1955”. 

[No. 3-PII(137)/54.] 
A. V. SUBRAMANIA IYER, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

New Delhi, the 30 th August 1950 

S.R.O. 2003. — Ess. Cona/Salt (3). — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, (10 of 1955) the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the Salt (Reserve Stocks) 
Order, 1955, published with the notifications of the Government of India, to ton 




1493 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Ministry of Production No. SRO (1185)Ess Com/Salt(3), dated the 27th May, 1955- 
namely: — 

In clause 5 of the said Order, for the figures and word "2,000 tons" the 
figures and word "3,000 tons” shall be substituted. 

[No. 14/4/63-Salt.I 

NIZAMUDDIN AHMAD, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 30 th August, 1956 

( Service Rules of the Chairman, Members, Secretary and Financial Adviser of 
the Damodar Valley Corporation) 

S.R.O. 2004. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 59 of the Damodar 
Valley Corporation Act, 1948, (XIV of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the Rules published with the notifica- 
tion Of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works, Mines and Power 
No. DW-IlI-A-4(7) Dam dated the 23rd April, 1948, namely: — 

In rule 9-A of the said Rules the following sentence shall be added at the- 
end namely: — 

“They may, however, be permitted to join the Fund and to contribute to it 
but shall not ne eligible to the Corporation’s contribution’’. 


Explanatory Note 

The amendment has been introduced with a view to enabling retired Govern- 
ment servants, who are in receipt of retired or superannuation pension or Contri- 
butory Provident Fund benefits from Government and who are appointed as 
Chairman, Member, Secretary or Financial Adviser of the Damodar Valley Cor- 
poration, to contribute to the Contributory Provident Fund of the Damodar valley 
Corporation without being entitled to receive the Corporation’s contribution. 

[No. 43 ( 1 ) DW-IV /50.J 
G. D. KSHETKAPAL, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 
(Central Boilers Board) 

New Delhi, the 27 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2005. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Boiler 
Regulations. 1950 which the Central Boilers Board proposes to make in exercise 
of the power conferred by section 28 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923), 
Is published as required by sub-section (1) of section 31 of the said Act, for 
the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 22nd 
November, 1956. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft .before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Boilers Board. Such objections or suggestions should be addressed to 
the Secretary Central Boilers Board, Ministry of Works, Housing & Supply, North 
Block, New Delhi, 


Draft Amendment 


In the said regulations — 

For clause (a) of regulation 125, Hie following shall be substituted, namely: — 
“125 (a) Plates 5/8 inch and above in thickness shall be bevelled from 
both sides of each abutting edge but the bevel need not necessarily 
be the same on each side (see Figs. 1 and 2). Plates less than 5/8 
inch in thickness may be bevelled from one side only of each abut- 
ting edge (see Figs. 3 and 4) . 


Part II— Sec. 3J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1856 I , > 


The included angle of the bevel shall be not less than 60°, and the bevel- 
ling may be any one of the forms shown in Figs. 1—4.” 


60 ° 



r 60 °^ 

\ min v 

/ 




FiH. 3 . 



[No. BL-304(18)/55.] 


New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2006. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act 1923 (5 of 1923), the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the follow- 
ing further amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950, the same having 
been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the 
said Act, namely:— 

In the .said Regulations — 

1. For the existing heading of Regulation 1, the following shall be substituted, 
namely : — 

"Short title, extent, application and commencement”. 

2. In Regulation 1, after sub-regulation (2) the following shall be inserted 

namely: — 

“(2A) These Regulations shall apply to all boilers including those working 
on the principles of natural circulation, forced circulation and forced 
flow with no fixed steam and water line”. 

3. In Regulation 281 the following paragraph shall be added at the end, 
namely: — 

"In the case of boilers with no fixed steam and water line, the fitting of 
such accessories that are manifestly not needed or used, such as water 
guages, water columns and guage cocks, may not bo insisted upon. 
In such cases, a duplicate means of maintaining circulation shall be 
* provided", 

4. In Regulation 378 after clause (f), the following clause shall be inserted 
namely: — 

"(g) In the case of forced flow and forced circulation types of boilers, pro- 
visions shall be made for checking that proper circulation is maintain- 
ed through all sections of the circuit by the flow of water”. 

5. In Regulation 390(a), the following paragraph shall be added at the end, 
namely: — 

"In the case of forced circulation and forced flow boilers which are not 
accessible to close visual inspection, the Inspector should, besides 
thorough examination, ensure by the flow of water that proper cir- 
culation Is maintained through all sections of the water circuits”. 

[No. S&PII/BL.304(20)/54.1 



1500 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


New Delhi , the 30 th August, 1958 

S.R.O. 2007 . — In exercise cf the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (V of 1923 ), the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Indian Boiler Regulations, 1950 , the same 
having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of section 31 
of the said Act, namely: — 

In the said Regulations — 

1 . For sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause (b) of regulation 15 , the following sub-clause 
•hall be substituted, namely: — 

"(b) (i) Plates, Angles and Tees. — Wherever practicable, the rolled surface 
shall be retained on two opposite sides of the test piece. The ulti- 
mate tensile stress and percentage of elognation on 8 in. gauge 
length shall be determined on standard test piece A (see Appendix 
B) and for plates over 2 in. in thickness, standard test piece B shall 
be used”. 

2 . For the table below to Regulation 18 , the following table shall be substituted, 
namely: — 


Ultimate 


Description 

tensile 

stress 

Tons / 
sq. in. 

Minimum Elongation * 
per cent 

Bend Test 

Test piece A 

8 in. gauge length. 

Test Piece Bf 

Test 

piece 

BI 

Radius of bend 
T>= Thickness 
or diameter 

ates for shells, butt 
straps, gussets and 
stays 

26-36 

23 for 26-30 
tons/sq, in. 

20 for 28-32 
tons/ sq. in. 

20 for 30-36 
tons/sq. in. 

2i for 26-30 
tons/sq. in. 

18 for 28-32 
tons/ sq. in. 
18 for 30-36 
tons/sq. in. 


iT for 26-30 
tons/sq. iq. 
ij T for 28-32 
tons / sq. in. 
ij T for 30-36- 
tons/sq. in. 

Plates for flanging, and 
for furnaces. 

24-32 

23 for 24-30 tons 
/ sq. in. 

20 for 28-32 
tons/sq. in. 

21 for 24-3C^pnB 

1 sq. in. T 

18 for 28-32 
tons/sq. in. 


iT for 24-30 
tons/sq. in. 
il T for 28-32 
tons sq. in. 

Plates for forge- 
welding. 

24-30 

23 for 24-30 tons 
/ sq. In. 

21 


iT for 24-30 
toDs/sq. in. 

Sections . 

2^30 

or 

28-33 

23 for 26-30 
tons/sq. in. 

20 for 28-33 
tons/sq. in. 



iT for 26-30 
tons/sq. in. 

T for 28-33 
tons/sq, in. 

Bars for bar stays 

26-36 


25 for 26-30 
tons/sq. in. 

22 for 30-36 

30 for 
26-30 
tons / 

1* T. 


tons/sq, in. sq, in. 

27 for 
30-36 
tons/ 

sq. in. 


♦For material under 3/8 inch in thickness reduce mJaimum percentage elongation 
▼slue by 3. 

■fMacnincd in the case of plates. 



Pint II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1858 


I ' OS 


Description 


Minimum Elongation* Bend Test 

Ultimate per cent 

tensile 

stress — - — ■ — — — — — — — — — — — - 

Tons / 

sq. in. Test piece A Test Piece Test Radius of bend 

8 in gauge length. Bf piece BI T— Thickness 

or diameter 


Bar* for screwed stays 24-28 25 30 iT 

or 

26-30 


Bara for rivets . . 24-28 25 30 

or 

26-30 


3. For clause (c) of the regulation 19, the following clause shall be substi- 
tuted namely: — 

“(c) For cold bend tests the test piece shall withstand, without fracture,, 
being doubled over until the internal radius is equal to that shown 
in table under regulation 18 and the limbs are parallel.” 

4. For regulation 23, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 

“23-Branding: — Every plate and bar shall be clearly and distinctly marked 
by the maker in two places with the number of identification marks 
by which they can be traced to the charge from which the material 
was made.” 

5. For regulation 24, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 

“24-Defacing of rejected material, — In the event of the material failing in, 
any case to withstand the prescribed tests, the identification mark of 
the Inspecting Officer which has been stamped on the material, shall 
be defaced by punch 'marks extending beyond the identification 
mark in the form of a cross, thus denoting that the material has 
to failed". 

0. For sub-clause (iv) of clause (d) of regulation 36, the following sub- 
clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(iv) Length— The length of the tubes shall be not less than the nominal, 
length, but may exceed it by the amount given below: — 


Up to and including 30 ft 1/8 in. 

Over 30 ft. 1/4 in.” 

7. In regulation 53 — 


(i) for sub-clause (iii) of clause (c) the following sub-clause shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“(Hi) Length — The Length of the tubes shall be not less than the nominal 
length, but may exceed it by the amount given below: — 


Up to and including 30 ft 1/8 in. 

Over 30 ft. 1/4 in.” 


8. In clause (a) of regulation 54— 

(i) for the expression ’‘following requirements”, the expression “require- 
ments prescribed in clause (a) of regulation 49” shall be substituted; 

(11) the table shall be omitted. 


*For material under 3/8 inch in thickness reduce minimum percentage- 
•iongation value by 3. 

f Machined in the case of plates. 



t 502 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 [Pabt II— S*c. 3 


9, For the heading above regulation 57, the following heading shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“ELECTRIC— RESISTANCE— WELDED STEEL BOILER AND SUPER- 
HEATER TUBES FOR DESIGN STEAM TEMPERATURES NOT 

EXCEEDING 850°F (454°C) 

10. In clause (c) of regulation 68— 

(i) for the 3rd and 4th items in the Table, the following items shall be 

subsii Luted, iiiniwly: — 

“Phosphorous, max, per cent . . 0'05 . . 0:05 

Sulphur, max. per cent . . 0'05 . . 0:06"; 

(ii) after the Table, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Where the temperature is below 750 a F (390°C), either ‘rimming’ or 

‘killed’ steel may be used. If ‘rimming’ steel is used, the strips 
shall be rolled in single widths and not slit longitudinally. 

The steel used for design steam temperature above 760°F (390”C) but not 
exceeding 850°F (464°C) snail be of the fully ‘killed’ type. The question of 
the high temperature creep strength of the material shall be the subject of 
^agreement between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Authority.” 

(iii) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely: — 
“(d) Thickness — The thickness of each tube shall conform to the speci- 
fied thickness excluding the weld within the limits of plus 10 and 
minus 5 per cent. 

(e) Diameter — The outside diameter of each tube measured at any 
position shall conform to the specified outside diameter within the 
limits of plus 0 and minus 1 per cent, 

'(f) Length — The length of each tube shall be not less than the nominal 
length, but may exceed it by the following amounts: — 

Nominal Tolerant 
length 

ft. in. 

Up to and including ........ 30 1/8 

Over 30 1/4 

ill. For regulation 60, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 
“60. Tensile Properties— The tubes shall conform to the requirements as 
to tensile properties prescribed in Table below: — 

Tensile Requirements 


Tensile strength, min. per sq. in. . 

Type A 

Type C 

. 47,000 lbs. 

60.000 lbs. 

Yield point, min. .... 

. 26,000 lbs. 

37,000 lbs. 

Elongation in 2 in,, min. per cent 

For longiiudinal strip tests a deduction 
decrease in wall thickness below 5/16 in. 

35 

for each j/32 in, 
from the basic min. 

30 

elongation of the following percentage 

1-75 

1-50 


12. For regulation 73, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 
“73, Scope — The steel castings shall be of the following grades: — 


ULTn%\TE TEN- 

Gradc SILK STRESS 

Tonn/sq. in, min. 


A . 
B . 
C . 


28 

32 

35 



Part II — Sic. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1953 1503 


13. For regulation 74, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 


“74. (a) Process of manufacture — Steel for castings shall be made by the 
Open Hearth or an Electric Process, acid or basic. 

(b) Chemical Analysis- -The steel shall contain: 


Element 


Carbom . 
Silicon . 
Manganese 
Sulphur . 
Phosphorus 





Grade A 

Grade B 

Grade C 




Per cent 

Per cent 

Per cent 




Max. 

Max. 

Max. . 




0'2S 

0'35 

0-45 




o-6o 

0-6o 

0-60 




T -00 

I 'OO 

I *00 




o-o(S 

0-06 

0-06 




0-06 

o-o6 

0-06 


The manufacturer shall supply a certificate of analysis of each melt when 
requested. 

(cl Heat Treatment — All eastings shall be supplied in the heat- 
treated condition. The heat treatment shall consist of annealing, 
annealing and normalising, normalizing, normalizing and tempering, 
or hardening and tempering, cither at the discretion of the manu- 
facturer or the Inspecting Officer and shall be carried out at suitable 
temperatures to give the mechanical properties specified in regula- 
tion 77. 

(d) Fettling and Dressing — All castings shall be properly fettled and 
dressed and all surfaces shall be satisfactorily cleaned for inspection 
purposes. 

(e) Freedom from Defects— All castings shall be free from injurious 
defects. In the event of any casting proving defective in the course 
of preparation, machining or erection, such casting may be rejected 
notwithstanding any previous certification of satisfactory testing." 

14. For regulation 76, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 

"76. Number of tests. Provision of test samples. — Tensile and bend test 
pieces shall be prepared from test samples representative of each melt or each 
heat- treatment batch as follows:— 

(a) The test samples shall be cast attached to or separate from the casting 

as agreed between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Officer. The 
agreement for attached test samples shall include the precise location 
and method of attachment. If the Inspecting Officer does not make 
such an agreement with the manufacturer, the decision as to the 
manner of providing test samples shall rest with the manufacturer. 
The discretion of the manufacturer shall not, however, apply to the 
testing of castings made from more than one melt, as indicated in 
clause (d) below. 

(b) If the test samples are attached to the castings, at least one tensile 

test and, when required one bend test, shall be made from each 
melt. Such test samples shall not be detached from the castings 
until heat-treatment of the castings has been completed and they 
have been stamped by the Inspecting Officer. Test samples shall he 
stamped by the Inspecting Officer after the heat treatment process. 

(c) If the test samples are cast separately, they shall be provided to the 

extent of 2 per cent of the number of castings from each melt, but 
in no ease shall there be less than 2 samples per melt, except by 
agreement between the manufacturer and the Inspecting Officer. 
The test samples shall be cast in moulds of the same material as is 
used for the castings and shall be made at the same time as the 
castings, and run from the same ladle The samples shall bei stamped 
by the inspecting officer so as to identify the castings to which they 
relate. ! 



1504 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1956 


TPaht II — Sec. 3 


(d) When a casting is made from more than one melt, at least four 

tensile tests and, where required, four bends tests, shall be made 
from test samples situated as far apart as possible on the casting. 
Some of the test samples shall be taken from as near the top and 
others from near the bottom of the casting as is practicable, 

(e) Test samples shall be heat-treated with the castings they represent." 

15. For regulation 77, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 

“77. (a) Tensile tests — The mechanical properties obtained from the test 
pieces selected and prepared as specified in regulation 76 shall com- 
ply with the requirements of the following table; — 


Grade 


ABC 

Ultimate tensile stress tons/sq. in tint less than - 
Yield stress, or o-j% proof stress, tonr,/sq. in. not less than 
Elongation, per cent not less than .... 


2 X 


35 

14 

t 6 

17-5 

22 

20 

15 


Note: — S hould a tensile test piece break outside the middle half of its gauge 
length, the test may, at the manufacturer’s option, be discarded and . 
another representative test made. 

(b) The tensile test shall be carried out on test pieces conforming 
to the dimensions of Standard test piece C, or to those of one of 
the subsidiary round test pieces as shown in Appendix B.” 

16. For regulation 78, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely:— 
“78. Bend tests-— Cold bend tests shall be made upon test pieces having' a 
rectangular section of one inch wide by 3/4 inch thick. The teat 
pieces shall be machined and the edges rounded to a radius of 1 / 1 ® 
inch. The test pieces shall be bent over the thinner section. 

Bend tests may be made by pressure or by blows, and the test pieces shall 
without fracture withstand being bent round a former having a radius of 1 
Inch through an angle not less than that given in the following table: — 


Grade of Casting 


Angle of Bend 
minimum 


A ........ 120* 

B ... .... 90* 

C ........ No test" 


17. For regulation 79, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 

“79. (a) Additional tests before rejection— Should any of the original test 
pieces fail to pass the mechanical tests, two further samples which 
represent the same casting or castings shall be selected and tested 
in the same manner. The manufacturer shall have the right, if he 
so desires, to re-heat-treat the castings before the two further 
samples are selected. 

Should the two further tests satisfy the requirement of this 
standard, castings, represented by them shall be accepted. Should 
either of the re-tests fall, the eastings represented shall be liable to 
rejection. 

(b) Hardness test after heat treatment. — The Inspecting Officer may- 
call for hardness testing of the heat-treated castings. 

(c) Non-destructive tests. — The Inspecting Officer may call for radio- 
graphic examination or other non-destructive testing of the castings. 

Castings found to be unsound may be treated in accordance with 
regulation 75. If the welding repairs are sanctioned by the Inspecting 
Officer, they shall be carried out in accordance with regulation 80. 



"Fart II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1058 1505 


18. For regulation 80, the following regulation shall bo substituted, namely:- 


"80, Procedure for Welding. — In order to maintain a high standard of 
workmanship in the practice of arc-welding to steel eastings, the 
following general principles should he [followed, but the precise 
technique will of necessity vary according to the circumstances. 


Surface condition.— The surfaces of the steel it is intended to weld should 
be cleaned and freed from all foreign matter, otherwise poor penetration and 
unsound weld metal may result. 


The preparation for the welding of cracks should be of the U or V types. 
When the latter is used, the included angle should be not less than 70". Where 
cracks extend through the section of the easting, the choice between single and 
double preparation, U or V, will he governed by (it the thickness of the casting; 
(ii) the location of the defect. In double preparation, U or V, the root of the 
U or V should be sufficiently open to ensure complete penetration. 

Electrodes. — The electrodes shall comply with regulations 94 to 98 for Grade 
A castings. Electrodes for Grades B and C castings should be agreed between 
the manufacturer and the Inspecting Officer. 

The electrode manufacturer's recommendations for the use of the electrode 
should be strictly followed. 

Pre-heating. — Variations in composition, mass design, and the extent of 
welding required make it impossible to lay down specific rules to establish 
conditions under which pre-heating should be applied. 

When after consideration of each casting in the light of the above variables it 
is deemed necessary to pre-heat, such pre-heating should be carried out at a 
temperature of 150— 300“C (302— 572"F). 

Stress-ralieving treatment. — When the welding is carried out after the casting 
has received its normal heat treatment, a further heat treatment may be considered 
necessary. This treatment need be applied only in cases where welding has 
been such as to induce either internal stresses which wcmld be detrimental to 
the casting, or locally hardened areas which would cause difficulty in machining. 
Where this further heat treatment is applied, the casting, where possible, should 
not be allowed to go cold after welding, but. should be charged into a warm 
furnace and re-heated to a suitable tempering temperature which in general 
should be. not less than 550°C (1022°F), 

When considering the advisability of applying ihis further treatment, its 
effect on the physical properties of the castings should be borne in mind. If 
the treatment, or the welding itself, is such that the physical properties will be 
adversely affected, the full heat treatment required to produce satisfactory 
qualities should be substituted.” 

19. For regulation 99, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — - 
“99. Preparation of Plates. — The edges of all plates and butt straps shall 

be machined or flamc-cut by machine and the caulking edges shall 
be bevelled to an angle not sharper than 70 degrees to the plane 
of the plate and between 70 and 80 degrees wherever practicable. 

Plates which are to bo flame-cut by machine without heat treatment or sub- 
sequent grinding or machining shall not have a carbon content higher than 0.26 
percent. 

Where the carbon content exceeds 0.26 per cent, heat treatment, grinding 
or machining shall be carried out. 

The deges of all plates shall have a smooth finish.” 

20, In regulation 104 — 

(i) for clauses (a), (b) and (c), the following clause shall be, substituted, 

namely: — 

(a) The calculated efficiencies of circumferential joints, based on the 
thickness of plate determined by Equation 1, shall be not less than 
38 per cent, for joints connecting end plates with cylindrical shells, 
or 42 per cent, for intermediate joints. In no case, however, shall 
the efficiency of an intermediate joint be less than 50 per cent, of 
that of the longitudinal joints. Where the shell plate thickness 
exceeds 11/16 in., the intermediate circumferential joints shall be 
double riveted."; 



[Part II— Sec. 3 


1506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


(2) Clause (d) shall be relettered as clause (b). 

21. In clause (a) of regulation 113, for the sentence “Alternatively, the end 
plates shall be built up by butt-welding — two pieces", the sentence ‘‘Alterna- 
tively, the end plates may fee built up from two pieces by riveting or by fusion 
butt-welding’’, shall be substituted. 

22. For clause (a) of regulation 126, the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

(a) The furnace crown shall be made from one plate and the seam con- 

necting it to the furnace shall not fall in line with any circumferen- 
tial seam of the boiler shell.’’ 

23. For clause (b) of regulation 127, the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

(b) “Cross tubes shall not exceed 12 in. in internal diameter. The mini- 

mum thickness shall be 5/16 in." 

24. To clause (f) of regulation 135, the following pargaraph shall be added, 
namely: — - 

“Alternatively stays may be screwed through the shell and fire box plates 
and the projecting ends shall be substantially fillet — welded In an 
approved manner. The projection of the end of the stay from the 
surface of the plate shall be not less than one quarter of the dia- 
meter of the stay but in no case less than 1/4 in. The full end of 
the stay shall be visible on completion of the, welding.” 

25. For regulation 145, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely; — 

“145, Steel and Wrought Iron Tubes.— Both plain and stay smoke tubes 
may be made either ot wrought iron or steel and may be electric 
resistance welded, lapwelded or weldless.” 

26. Regulation 146 shall be lettered as clause (b) of that regulation, and 
before that clause as so lettered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely: — 

(a) Plain tubes shall be expanded at both ends. The expanding shall be 
parallel through-out the full thickness of the tube plate, Plain tubes 
may also be bell-mouthed, beaded, or welded at the gas inlet end.” 

27. Regulation 147 shall be lettered as clause (a) of that regulation and after 
the clause as 30 lettered, the following clause shall bo added, namely; — 

“(b) Stay tubes may be attached by welding in which case they shall not 
be adjacent within the same tube nest except in local areas, where not 
more than two adjacent stay tubes may be attached by welding. The 
form of attachment shall be such that there Is a mechanical hold in 
addition to the welding, as shown in Figure 9A. On completion of 
welding the stay tube s shall be lightly re-expanded,” 



9a. Tynca/ example of welded tube 



Part If — S ec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1507 


28. For clause (a) of regulation 151, the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

(a) All tubes which are subject to internal pressure of water or steam 
shall be cold drawn or hot finished seamless cr electric-resistance-welded 
in accordance with regulations 36 to 63. Except as provided for In 
clause (b) below, they shall be without joint." 

29. In regulation 156, for the words, “The thickness of the forged stand pipes 
shall comply with table below", the words “Solid forged standpipes shall have 
-a minimum thickness of flange and of body in accordance with the table below” 
shall be substituted. 

30. In clause (b) of regulation 160, after the words "attached to”, the words 
“shells and” shali be inserted. 


31. In clause (a) of regulation 169, for the second sentence, the following 
sentence shall be substituted namely; — 

“The strength of the net section of compensating ring and also of the rivets 
securing them to the shell, compared with that part of the shell cut 
out, shall not be less than the efficiency of the longitudinal seam.” 

32. Regulation 170 shall be lettered as clause (a) of that regulation and after 
the clause as so lettered, the following clause shall be added, namely: — 

“(b) Riveted construction.— Where frames, pads or branches are secured 
by riveting on shells for fixing of mountings or other pressure parts, 
the sectional area to be compensated shall be determined as follows:— 
(See Fig. 2 5 A). 





HOT!' WEAV m TottHCUSSSTWH MUX ■ 


Fig. 25A Compensation for Riveted Standpipes 
Area To Be Compensated And Corresponding Area Allowable For Compensation. 

(i) The cross-sectional area of the frame or pad excluding rivet holes, or in 
the case of a branch the cross-sectional area of the wall of the branch and flange, 
excluding rivet holes, minus the sectional area of a branch of the same bout 
having a thickness calculated by equation 1 for the same design pressure, using 
C=2.75, J^65 when butt welded, and J— 95 when seamless, plus the thickness 
required to withstand external loads. The area shall be measured within the 
limit specified in Figure 25-A. 

Due allowance shall be made In case where the material used for the branch 
and/or compensating ring differs from that Of the plate to which it is attached. 

(ii) The area obtained by multiplying the difference between the actual shell 
thickness and the calculated thickness, by a length 

2(3 in, 4 . Ts-d) 

Ts = Thick- ness of shell plate In inches. 


d= diameter of rivet hole in inches. 

In cases where the sum of (i) and (ii) is less than the sectional area to be 
compensated, a compensating plate shall be fitted having to total net cross sec- 
tional area equal to the amount of the deficit.” 

33. In regulation 190, for the figure "2.75"" the figure “2.75’ shall he 

lubstltuted. 


1508 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 [Pabt II— Sec. 3: 


34. After clause (b) of regulation 197, the following clause shall be added, 
namely: — 

“(c) The uiickness of flat crown plates shall in no case be less than the 
thickness of the cylindrical portion to which it is attached.” 

35. In regulation 204, after the word "seamless” the words "or electric-resis- 
tance-welded” shall be inserted. 

30. In regulation 240 — 

(i) in sub-clause (ii) of the clause (b) the word "British” shall be omitted. 

(ii) In the table below clause (d), for the three entries under the second 
column, the following entries shall be substituted, namely — 

"3/8 

1/2 

3/4” 

37. After regulation 243, the following heading shall be inserted, namely: — 

“TUBES, HEADERS, PIPES AND STEEL CASTINGS” 

38. For clause (a) of regulation 244, the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely; — 

"(a) Tube;) shall be of cold drawn weldles K or hot finished weldless or 
electric-resistance- welded steel and shall comply with regulation 36 to 
63.” 

39. In regulation 260, after the word "chipping” the words “or flame cutting” 
shall be added. 

40. For regulation 265, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely; — 

“255 POSITION OF TUBE HOLES; — Tube holes may be machined through 

welded seams after the seams have been radiographed and stress- 
relieved. The efficiency of the welded seam (ratio of stress Col. B to 
stress Col. A, Table under regulation 271) shall be taken into account 
when determining the efficiency of ligaments in the direction of the 
weld (see regulation 215) except where the distance from the edge of 
the hole to the edge of the weld is greater than 1/ in. The edge of 
the weld shall be considered to be the edge of the weld groove as 
machined in the plate prior to welding," 

41. In regulation 263, for the expression ”30 ft. lb”, the expression ”20 ft, lb.” 
•hall be substituted. 

42- In regulation 279.— 

(i) for clause (a), (b) and (c), the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"279(a) Welded construction. — Where stand-pipes are secured by weld- 
ing, adequate compensation for the hole cut for the standpipe shall 
be provided. Compensation shall be considered adequate when the 
sectional area X to be compensated is less than the compensating 
area Y (see Fif. 25B). 

“T. dfSTlOlbPlW 08 



»on» AftCft y v to (it mot His mu MU 


Fig. 2J B Compensation for welded standpipes 
Aren to be compensated end corresponding area allowable for compensation 


Part II-Sec. 3j TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1509 

The sectional area X shall be calculated as follows ■ — 

' 70 1 • °i f file ° utslde diameter of the standpipe (calculated by equation 

clause)^ t llc ^ IlC;ss an equivalent drum shell (see note at the end of the 


, com P e usation area Y shall be measured in plane through the axis of the 
standpipe parallel to the longitudinal axis of the drum and shall be calculated as 
follows I — " 


The sectional area of the standpipe minus the sectional area of a standpipe 
of the same boro having a thickness calculated by equation 72 for the same design 
pressure and temperature. Area Y shall be measured upto a point 4 in. from the 
outer surface of the drum shell. 


Plus the cross sectional area of the welding fillets external to the drum shell. 

Plus the area obtained by multiplying the difference between the actual drum 
shell thickness and the thickness of an equivalent seamless unplercerl drum shell 
by a length 2(Ts + i ) in. whore Ts is the thickness or the drum shell plate in 
lnche s (see Fig. 2I3B). 

Whore the material of the standpipe has an ultimate tensile stress lower than 
that of the drum shell, the compensating sectional area of the standpipe shall be 
multiplied by the ratio; — 

Ultimate _tensile_ stress_of _ thc_ standpipe 
Ultimate tensile stress of drum shell 

In eases where Y is less than X, a compensating plate shall be fitted to the 
drum shell at the standpipe and secured by fillet welds (see Fig. 25 B) . 

Note— An equivalent drum shell shall mean a seamless drum shell of similar 
material unpierced by tube holes and designed for the same conditions of pres- 
sure and temperature as the drum shell In question." 

(ii) Clause (d) shall be lettered as clause (b). 

43, In regulation 280, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“280. ATTACHMENT OF STAND BLOCKS AND BRANCH PIPES BY 
WELDING — 

(ai Typical methods of attachment are shown in Figures 

2 4 A, 24B, 24C, 24D, 26A, 28B, 26C, 26D, 26E, 27A and 27B. 

* 

All weld dimensions shown shall be regarded as minimum dimensions, those 
delining the grooves refer to the actual preparation for welding. 

tn= Specified thickness of standpipe or branch pipe. 

ts = Specified thickness of drum or header shell at standpipe or branch 
connection. 

tc= Actual thickness of compensating ring. 

The application of certain of the constructions illustrated may be limited by 
consideration of design pressure design temperature or size (in combination) 
and although certain dimensions are given, each case must be consideded on its 
merits. 


Other methods may be adopted subject to agreement between the Inspecting 
authority and manufacturer. 

(b) Electrodes shall comply with the requirements of Regulations 94 to 98 
(Covered Electrodes for Metal Arc Welding). 

(c) Not less than two runs of metal shall be deposited at each weld. Each 
run of weld metal shall be thoroughly cleaned and freed from slag before the next 
run Is deposited. 

Where one side of a double V weld has been completed, the under surface of 
the original run of metal shall be removed by grinding, chipping or machining to 
give a clean metallic surface before welding on the other side is commenced. 

(d) The final finish of the weld shall be such that the change of section from 
drum to standnine or from flange to standpipe, is gradual and free from sharp 
notches. Afte^oompletion of welding (except in the case of seal welds) the drum 
shall be stress-relieved by heat treatment.” 



1510 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


[Pari II— Skc. 2 




Bore 



Fi|. 24 A Wgldad-in dandpipa or branch 
For ctAndpipci and branches up to and including 4 in. bore. 



Fig. *48 W«iM > ** m *»< M or branch far tfndpipM * bfcmaht* up la Ml 

Wrfn* 4 r 



Paht II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 151 r 



if if. 24C W*ld*d-ln tfQndpip*. or branch with compensating rh\g ior standpipes 
or branchw up to and including 4 in. bona. 



1512 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Ssc. S 


This line should Amply clear 
flange S of branch-pipes or any 
other obstruction in order to 

X ‘*e convenient access, 
rwe'dmd 


h • mt> I'/i or i ft m 

(whichever (j the lessj 
tnin 





J 3 T n~h ( i.e plain fdlet 
when h^jj'/Jtpj) 



approx 


Fi i 24 D ' v *vJe«Hn standpipe, OT branch with compensating ring for jtand^pies 
and branch*} up to and Including 4 in. bore . 



Part II — S*c. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


1513 




Bo^c of branch not jreater than h»lf inner ® 
radius of header", Up to a maximum of 3'mcbel ^ 

__Jt n L — **> '■*■ 



but not 

Was thah 7 /i«<A 


I t n but not 
(eosthon% 


Expanded or acr***ed 
■’’parallel pipe, thread 
■'With vanishing threads, or taper pipe 
thread 

Thtckness of header 

not tejs than lin. 


P»*.£6A. Header hraocW Welding acc*xiiH« - fro*i tuiild* only 

Maximum design ptcsiune, 450 Ib/jg. in 
Maximum design temperiturt, SfO'F 

ApphctbW to the circular section Of hs&derr with Above limiting ju* of branch 

or flat sides of h»»d«rs without limiting Ait* of branch 

NOTE This tyf*. of wold 13 not rteonwnendtd wH«r* (ho mvo* *< the h»Ad*r it 
Atnenlble far vmlatnf 



IJI4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Past li— S ec- 9 



of vrfeUl be add ed 


Homintl bo*« 
of pipe 

B 

Top,! (cflgth af 
th/#*d 
(M ihimum) 

(T) ' 

In, 

in. 


i 

i 

ft 

ft 

* 

% and b* ! ow 

ft 


Pif . 26 B • Screwed 4 ft d till waidad ConnaclJo* 



£ Part It — Sic. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 




1516 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 106 fl [Part H— Skc. S 





Fif 26E . Woldod-in jUndpipe or touch 

This tjp* <>( wold if not fooornmfricUd *»h«r* the inside of header or drum iji 
acorjtibic for welding. 



15X8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


[Part H — Sec. 3 



BMncta wc)ded-dr> Kc^dCr internal mochming 


Past II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 1519 



27 B. Branch with make-up ring we Id *4 on he&cter 

44. For the heading "Superheaters” above regulation 337, the following heading 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

"BOILER AND SUPERHEATER TUBES, HEADERS AND OTHER PRES-.. 
SURE PARTS”. 

45. In clause (a) of regulation 338, — 

(1) for the brackets & letters "(a)”, “(b)” and “(c)” occurring after the 

words "The working metal temperatures” shall be taken aa the 
brackets and letters "(i)”, “(ii)” and "(iii)" shall be substituted 
stituted. 

(2) for the existing heading to the second column of the Table, the heading 

"Low carbon steel tubes to regulation 30, 43 and 58” shall be sub- 
respectively. 

46. In Table 1 below clause (b) of regulation 344, under the heading 
“Hydraulic (water gas) Lapwelded Steel Pipes” in the second column for the 
figures "22”, the figures "23” shall be substituted. 

47. In Regulation 353. — 

(i) In clause (a) for the word “may” between the words "pipes” and 
‘he made”, the word “shall” shall be substituted; 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


(il) clause (b) shall be omitted and clause (c) shall be re-lettered a 5 
clause (b) . 

■ 48 . In clause (c) of regulation 360 , the following clause shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

"(c) Such butt welded Joint shall conform to Figure 32 ”. 

49 . For the table below regulation 504 , the following table shall be substituted, 
namely: — 


On Components before assembly . . . Hydraulic test Pressure 


Cost iron tubes, headers and bends . . Twice working pressure 

Minimum pressure 700 lb. per sq. in. 

Design pressure Ibfl./aq. Hydraulic test 
in. Pressure Ibs./sq. in. 


Steel tubes and bends . 
Ditto. 


Ditto. 


500 or less 

above 500. but not 
exceeding 1,000 

above 1,000 


1,000 

twice the .working 
pressure 

1,000 above the work- 
ing pressure. 


Headers 




below 1,000 Twice the working 

pressure, 

above 1 , 000 . Working pressure 

plus i.ooo lbs / q, 
in 


60 . In the marginal note to regulation 505 the words “Material of construction" 
•hall be deleted.. 

01 . For regulation 506 , the following regulations shall be substituted, namely: — 
506 . PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE.— 

(a) The castings shall be cast from metal melted of refined in any suitable 
metallurgical plant other than an iron ore smelting furnace. 

The minimum test results required on test bars 1'2 in, in diameter shall be 
In accordance with the following table: — 


Material for tubes and other Minimum ultimate Transverse test on span of 18 in. 

pressure Parts. tensile strength — — 

Minimum Transverse Minimum deflection 
breaking load 



Tons/sq. in. 

lb. 

in. 

Grade 14 iron 

14' 0 

2060 

O' 16 

Grade 12 iron 

12' 0 

1850 

o- 15 


Nora:— Grade 14 and 12 iron correspond to 14 tons and 12 tons ultimate tensile 
strength respectively. 

(b) In the chemical composition the maximum sulphur content shall not 
exceed 0.12 per cent and the maximum phosphorus shall not exceed 
1.2 per cent 








Part II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, i 960 1521 


62. In claug 
dry sand” the 


e (c) of regulation 507 between the words “green sand” and "or 
word "or in loam” shall be inserted. 


63. In regulation 508. — 


(i) in tile table in clause (a), in the entry in the column headed “Test 
requirements” against Group 3, for the figure “4” the figure "3” Bhall 
be substituted; 


(ii) for clauses (b) and (c) and the tables under them, the following shall 
be substituted, namely: — 


(b) Conditions for Acceptance and for Rejection: — 


Test 


Result 


Conclusion 


1st . . Pass .... The batch or separate castings re- 

presented shall be accepted. 

Tensile or Transverse Two more tests shall be made 
test fails. 

and . . . .If both pass. . . The batch or separate castings re- 

presented shall be accepted. 

If either fails The batch or separate castings re- 

presented shall be rejected. 


Provided always that, in the case of failure of any test piece showing obvioua 
casting defects, another test piece shall be taken from spare test bars or cut 
from a casting from the same batch and the results obtained from this substitut- 
ed for those obtained from the defective test bars.” 

64. In regulation 609, the table shall be amended as follows: — 


B 

D 

A 

p 

R 

c 

E 

F 

Lp 

Ls 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

in. 

1-20 O' 798 

0-50 

2 

3-1/2 

2 

1-1/8 

BSF 

1-1/8 

B 5 W 

1-1/8 

8-1/4 5-7/8 


The test bars shall be east as cylindrical bars of the diameters given in Col. B 
and machined to the dimensions given in Col. D & P in the above Table. 


06. For regulation 610, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 
“510. The manufacturer shall, on the basis of design details, satisfy the 
Inspecting Authority regarding the design and strength of all parts 
of cast iron economisers subject to the following maximum working 
pressures: — 

Max. W. P. 


(1) Ordinary-Vertical Tube 

(2) Ordinary Vertical Tube with strengthened tubes 

(3) Ring Stay Vertical Tube .... 

(4) Gill Tube type of approved design . 


325 lb/sq. in. 
375 lb/sq. in. 
47J lb/sq. in. 
650 lb/Bq. in.” 


50. Eor regulation 612, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: — 
“612. Economiser water outlet temperature. — The design conditions shall be 
such that the maximum outlet water temperature of the economiser 
shall be at least 40°F below the saturated steam temperature in the 
boiler drum; 

Provided that this requirement shall not apply to economisers used on 
low pressure water heating systems working at pressure less than 
120 ft. head of water”. 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


1522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


57 . For Regulation 618 , the following regulation shall be subsittuted, namely: 


“ 518 . Joint bolts, studs and flanges — 

(a) The maximum working pressure 
the following formula: — 




for the bolts shall be determined bj 
Eqn. (121) 


N — No. of bolts securing the parts, 
n — No. of screw threads per inch. 

D — Bolt Diameter in inches measured over the threads. 

A — - The area exposed to pressure which is assumed to be bounded by a line midway betwee^ 
the pitch line of the bolts and the inner edge of the flange where flat joints are used witi 
joint rings. Where conical joint faces are used with joint rings, ot curvilinear cres: 
section, the area exposed to pressure shall be assumed to extend to the root of the rhrea* 
where the tube ends are screwed, or to a corresponding boundary if the flanges are 
attached by other means. 

C — 4,700 for steel bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq. in. minimum ultimate tensile stress where th 
diameter over thread is less than 3/4 inch. 

C — 5,100 for steel bolts or studs of 30 tons/sq. in. minimum ultimate tensile stress where th 
diameter over thread is less than 3/4 inch. 

C — • 5,600 for steel bolts or studs of 35 tons/sq. in. minimum ultimate tensile stress where th 
diameter over thread is less than 3/4 inch. 

C — 5,600 for steel bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq. in. minimum tensile stress where the diamete 
over thread is not less than 3/4 inch and not greater than 7/8 inch. 

C — 7,000 for steel bolts or studs of 28 tons/sq. in. minimum ultimate tensile Btrcss where th 
diameter over thread is greater than 7/8 inch, 

Where the bolts or studs used have a tensile strength exceeding 32 tons aq. In. 
a plate shall be permanently fixed to the economiser structure in a prominent 
position drawing attention to this fact In ease replacements of bolts or studs art 
necessary. In no case shall the nuts be exposed to the action of the flue gases. 

(b) The thickness of each flange shall be not less than that given by the 
following equations 
PD(DI — D) 
t“V A 2 — 

Where t =» Thickness of flange in thirty-seconds of an inch 

p = Working pressure, in pounds per square inch (gauge). 

D = Outside diameter of the tube in inches. 

Di “ Pitch circle diameter of bolts or studs in inches, provided that such flange i 
cast integral with the body and with the appropriate internal corner radius. 

In no case, however, shall the thickness of a flange be less than 24 thirty-seconds of a> 

inch- 

58. In regulation 519 — 

(») In clause (f), the following sub-heading shall be substituted, namely : — 

“ Non-return valves in return feed line ” 

(it) after clause (i), the following clauses shall be added, namely : — 

“ (j) Feed Line.— Alternative means of feeding the boiler other than through the economiser 
shall be provided. 

(k) Non-return valve.— A valve shall be provided in the hot feed line between the ccono- 
miset and the boiler to prevent the discharge of steam or water from the boiler into 
the economiser.” 

59. In regulation 524, for the words "and caps removed”, the words “and all caps, dooi- 
and blank flanges removed” shall be substituted. 

60. For clause (b) of regulation 525, the following clause shall be substituted, namely : — 
“(b) The fitness of the economiser parts shall be determined as per the following for- 
mulae : — 

( 1) Cast iron smooth tube economisers with pressed socket joints. 

WP an AZ + 22;N Equation( 124) 

70 a n 



Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 1523 


Where WP — Design pressure in pounds per square inch (guage) 

A ■■ Area of contact surface of a single socket, square inches. 

a «= Cross sectional area measured on the mean diameter of a socket hole, in square 
inches, 

Z = Breakdown load of an unreinforced socket joint in pounds. 

N ■=* Number of stays per header. 
n w Number of sockets per header. 

For existing standard designs the breakdown load of an unreinforced socket joint shalj 
be taken as not greater than 13,500 lb. For designs not already in use before the date of tbs 
Standard, the corresponding figure shall be taken as not greatef than 75 per cent of the load as deter- 
mined by experiment. 

(n) Headers of approximately rectangular cross section. 

WP. = C(t— 2)*- 

' Equation ( 12 j) 

b 

Where t mm Thickness in thirty seconds of an inch. 

b mm Distance between the sides of header supporting the surface, in inches. 

WP — Design pressure, in pounds per square inch (guage). 

C mm 11 where the water side surface is flat. 

== 22 where the water side surface is curved, 

provided that the curvature is continued without interruption and the thickness at each end 
the side i s not less than that determined with C — II. 

In no case, however, shall the thickness of the side of a header be less than 16 thirty- 
aeconds of an inch at any part. 

(Hi) Headers of approximately circular cross section 
WP =o.6K(r-5) Equation (126) 

D 

Where t — Thickness in thirty K-seconds of an inch. 

WP =■ Design pressure, in pounds per square inch (guage)-, 

D -• Outside diameter of header in inches. 

K am 240 for Grade 14 i ron. 

= 220 for Grade 12 iron. 

The minimum thickness of plain cylindrical portions of a header in that part of the 
length which does not contain tube holes shall comply with the requirements of sub-clause (V). 

In no case, however, shall the thickness at any point may be less than 16 thirty-seconds of 
an inch. 

(in) Tubes. 

WP =» K(t-C) Equation ( 127) 

~ir~ 

Where ' t = Thickness in thirty-seconds of an inch, 

WP — Design pressure, in pounds per square inch (guage). 

D =■ Outside diameter of tube in inches. 

K •=• 240 for Grade 14 iron. 

=a 220 for Grade 12 iron. 

C = 4 for portion where gills act as reinforcement. 

=, 5 for portion not reinforced. 

In no case, however, shall the thickness at any point be less titan n thirty-seconds of 
an inch. 

( v ) Manifold pipes. 

WP ^ 0.8 (1-5) 

— Equation ( 128) 

D 

Where t — Thickness in thirty-seconds of an inch. 

WP ■= Design pressure, in pounds per saquare inch (guage). 




1524 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1058 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


D *=> Outside diameter of pipes in inches. 

K = 240 for Grade 14 iron. 

= 220 for Grade 12 iron. 

In no cas:, however, shall the thickness of a manifold pip: or branch be less than 14 
thirty-seconds of an inch. 

(pi) Cast iron economisers with extended surface horizontal tubes. 

Connector Bends. 

K(t— S ) 

IVP— — - — - Equation (129) 

D 

Where t ^Thickness of bend in thirty-seconds of an inch. 

1 VP = Design pressure in pounds per square inch (gauge), 

D =■ Outside diameter of bendj in inches. 

K= 240 Grade 14 iron. 

— 220 for Grade 12 iron 

In no case, however, shall the thickness of a connector b:nd b: less than 13 thirty-seconds 
of an inch. 

(fti) Tubes. 

To comply with equation 127. 

(fii'i) Manifold pipes. 

To comply with equation (128)” 

fit. At the end of paragraph four of Form VII, after the word "test” the words in 
accordance with Regulation 504” shall be added. 

[BL-304 (to) /52-PT III 
M. N. KALE, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 24th August, 1956 

S.R.O. 2008. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces- 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the state of Bombay for a public 
purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) o< 
section 12 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 195^ 
(44 of 1954), it is notified that the Central Government, has decided to acquire 
and hereby acquires, the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed. 


The Schedule 


SI. Particulars of the evacuee property 
No. 

Name of the town & 
locality in which the eva- 
cuee property is situated 

Name of the evacuee 

I 2 

3 

4 

Greater Bombay 

I 60-6 A Takia Ward, Kurla, L 

Ward No, 1375 and 1375 (1) 

ADM 240/2474. 

Smt. Aminabai Mlrza 
Rahim Beg. 


Part 


II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1958 j 525 


2 

3 


4 


5 


'6 


7 

S 

*> 


10 

11 

12 


13 


32C Mori Road, Mahi, G Ward 
No. 6047, ADM 240/1602 

76-78, Narayan Dhru Street and 
5-17 Tava Lane, B-Ward No. 
902 and 930. 

ADM 240/285. 

Shed bearing Bandrag Municipal 
No. 28, Behind Bombay Gar- 
rage Santacruz, H. Ward No. 
3497 (0 Survey No. 152. Hissa 
No. 2, 240/18/A. 

41O-D, 40-BA, Parel Village Road, 
Bhagvvantrao Rd. Ward Nos. 
F-26. 39(i) & 2639(h) C. S. No. 
356 of Parel Sewri Division, 
240/2520. 

Basar Manzil, 11-15, Ghoghari 
Moballa, 1st X Lane, Ward 
.No. 0/6259(1) C. S. No. 2560, 
Bhuleshawar Dev. 

Mahirn Cottage, L. J. Road, Ward 
No. G-4944 C*-A) C. S. No. 
3/2002/Mahim Divn. 

382-86, Duncan Rd. C-Ward, 
7430 C. S. No. 3776, Bhulesh- 
war Division (240/117& 143). 

361, Parel, Bhoiwada F-Ward No. 
1442(1) Scheme No. 57, (240/ 

2387)- 

10 Circus Avenue Off Lcmington 
■ Road (240/52). 

Beach House, Vctsova Road, 
Andheri, Bombay (240/236). 
Parsabai Bldg. 54, Mohd. Ali 
Road, Bombay-3 (240/1114-B). 

Plo^ of land with Chawla thereon 
at 112-120-B. C. Dclisle Road, 
Bridge Near Lower Parel Stn. 
(240/306). 


C. S. No. 1434 of Mahim 
Division. 

C. S. No. 12 1 1 of Mandvl 
Division. 


Ghod Bunder Road, Be- 
hind Bombay Garrage 
(Villcparlc). 


Parel Village Bhagwant- 
rao PaneUcar Road. 


1st Ghoghari Mohola, 
Bombay — 3. 


L. J. Road . 


Duncan Rd. 


Bhoiwada 


C. S. No. 2/1880 of By- 
vculla Division, 

Survey No, 82-Plot No. 
33. 

C. S. No. 1196 of Mandvi 
Division, B-Ward No. 
981-82. 


Bikhoo Jagan Tara. 


Halambal W/o Abubakar 
Tayeb. 


Shri Abdul Kadar Patel 


Smt. Biblbal Wd/o Moosa 
Haji Yokoob. 


Haji Gulam Rasul Sule 
man. 


1. Abdul Rashid & 

2. Iqbal w/o Abdul 
Rashid. 

Shri Haji Kasam Haji 
EsBft. 

Smt. Faunabai Kasam 
Ali 


Abdul Kader Haji 
Mohamed Abas. 

Dawood Habib & Others. 

Ahmed Abdul Karim 
Brothers. 


C. S. No. 450 of Lower 
Parel Divn. G. Ward 
No. 2304 (2A) (2B) (2- 
BB) (2-C) 2304 (3) (4)- 


Mahomed Hussein Haj 
Tayeb Kadwani, 


[No. F.IO (92) SI/50.] 

New Delhi, the 28 th August 1950 

SRuO. 2009. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims), Supplementary Act, 1954 (No. 12 
of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints the following persons to be 
Settlement Commissioners for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officers by or under the said Act: — 

SI. No. Name of the Officers appointed. 

1 , Shri P. N. Segal. 

2 , Shri Khushi Ram. 

3 Shri R. S. Das I.A.S. 

4 . Shri G. B. K. Hooja, I.A.S. 

Shri N. S. Verma, I.A.S. 
fl’ Shri S. N. Seth. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


[Part II — Sec. 5 


1526 


1 


2 


3 


4 


7. Dr. Tara Chand, 

8. Shrl A. S. Bam, I.C.S. 

9. Shrl Dwarka Das Surl. 

10. Shri Kushal Singh. 


[No. 16/2/56-S-II.J 

New Delhi, the 3rd September 1950 

S.R.O. 2010. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1964) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Rameshwar Dial Mathur, as 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such Officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post, 

[No. 7/20/56-SII(Pt.II),l 
New Delhi, the 4th September 1950 

8.R.O. 2011.— /R.Amdt.VI. — It is hereby notified for the information of the 
general public that Parliament has made the following amendment to the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, namely: — 

In the said rules, for sub-rule (3) of rfile 19, the following sub-rule shall bo 
substituted namely:— 

“(3) For the purposes of calculating the number of members of a joint family 
under sub-rule (2), a person who on the relevant date — 

(a) was less than eighteen years of age; or 

(b) was a lineal descendant in the male line of another living member of 

the joint family; 

•hall be excluded: 

Provided that where a member of a joint family has died during the period 
commencing on the fourteenth day of August, 1947, and ending on the relevant 
date, leaving behind on the relevant date all or any of the following heirs,' name- 
ly:— 

(a) a widow or widows; 

(b) a son or sons (whatever the age of such son or sons); 

but no lineal ascendant in the male line, then, all such heirs shall, notwithstanding 
anything contained in this rule, be reckoned as one member of the joint family. 

[No. F.51(26)SI/06.J 
KULWANT SINGH, Under Secy- 


New Delhi, the 27th. August I960 

S.R.O. 2012. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necefl- 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Orissa for a public pur- 
pose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1054), it i» 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquire*, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below; 

The Schedule 

All evacuee properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Orissa, 
except all such properties falling under any one or more of the following cate- 
gories; — 

(1) any such property — 

(i) In respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 
the date of this notification under the Administration, of Evacue* 



Paht II — Sec. 3J 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 1527- 


Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), in which the question at issue is- 
whether the property is or is not evacuee property; or 

(ii) in respect of which the period of limitation, if any, fixed for an appeal 
or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the- 
property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired. 

(2) any sudh property in respect of which an application for the grant of a. 
certificate under sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuea 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has- 
not expired. 

(3) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the- 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of 
which an application under sub-section (2) of that section for its restoration i* 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub-section (1) of that section has been granted but no application under sub- 
section (2) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

(4) any such property which before the date of this notification has been, 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of which any pro- 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section. 

(5) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951). 

(6) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a. 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacueo- 
property or not. 

(7) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property far a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub-section XI) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950). 

[No. SIII-I( 18) (2) /56-I.] 

S.R.O. 2013. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Orissa for a public 
purpose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), it 1 b- 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below. 

The Schedule 

All rural houses in village abadis (including vacant sites and cattle sheds) in 
the State of Orissa, that is to say, houses situated in any area in that State outside 
the limits of a corporation, a municipality, a municipal committee a notified area 
committee, a town area or a small town committee or a cantonment as those 
limits existed on the 15th August, 1947, which have been declared or are deemed, 
to have been declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), except all such properties falling under any 
one or more of the following categories: — 

(1) any such property— 

(i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at the 

date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee Pro- 
perty Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), in which the question at issue ia 
whether the property is or is not evacuee property; or 

(ii) in respect of which the period of limitation, if any, fixed for an appeal 

or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the pro- 
perty in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired. 

(2) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application haa 
not expired. 



1528 the gazette OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1958 [Past II— Sec. 3 


(3) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
.Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1960 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of 
which an application under sub-section (2) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
Bub-Section (I) of that section has been granted but no application under sub- 
section (2) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

(4) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act, 1960 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of which any pro- 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section. 

(5) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951). 

(6) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not. 

(7) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
•or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
■charitable nature under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Administration of 
(Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950). 

[No. SIII-I (18) (2)/56.II.] 

S.R.O. 2014. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces- 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Bihar for a public pur- 
pose, being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1054), it is 
siotifled that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below; 

The Schedule 

All evacuee properties comprising agricultural lands in the State of Bihar, 
■except all such properties falling under any one or more of the following cate- 
gories; — 

(1) any such property — 

(i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 
the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee Pro- 
perty Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), in which the question at issue is 
whether the property is or is not evacuee property; or 

(ii) in respect of which the period of limitation, if any, fixed for an appeal 
or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the pro- 
perty in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired. 

S any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
■ate under sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), is pending at the date of this notification 
or in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application 
has not expired. 

(3) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of 
which an application under sub-section (2) of that section for its restoration ia 
pending at the date of this notification or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub-section (1) of that section has been granted but no application under (sub- 
jection (2) of that section for its restoration has been made. 

(4) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
■transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
•of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of which any pro- 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section. 

(5) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951). 

(6) any such property in respect of which any prodeedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not 


152 9 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


(7) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated 
or is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evaduee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950). 


[No. SIII.1(18) (1J/56.I.] 


S Jt.O. 2015. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces- 
sary to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Bihar for a public pur- 
pose, being a purpose Connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Dis- 
placed Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1964), it ia 
notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquires, 
the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule below. 


The Schedule 

All rural houses in village abadis (including vacant sites and cattle sheds) in 
the State of Bihar that is to say, houses situated in any area in that State outside 
the limits of a corporation, a municipality, a municipal committee, a notified area 
committee, a town area or a small town committee or a cantonment as those 
limits existed on the 16th August, 1947 which have been declared or are deemed 
to have been declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), except all such properties falling under any 
one or more of the following categories: — 

(1) any such property — 

(i) In respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this notification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1960), in which the question at issue 
is whether the property is or is not evacuee property; or 

(ii) in respect of which the period limitation if any, fixed for an appeal or 

revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of the property 
in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired; 

(2) Any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub-section (1) of Section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application has 
not expired; 

(3) any such property which has been restored under Section 16 of the Ad- 
ministration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of 
which an application under sub-section (2) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at fhe date of this notification, or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub-section (1) of that section has been granted but no application under sub- 
section (2) of that section for its restoration has been made; 

(4) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property, Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or in respect of which any 
proceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section; 

(5) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951 (LXIv of 1951). 

(6) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not; 

(7) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated or 
is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or 
charitable nature under sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Administration of 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950) . 


[No. SIII.K38) (1)/50.IIJ 
I. N. CHIB, Dy. Secy, 


1530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II — Sec, 3 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the iist August, 1950 

S.R.O. 2016. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Delhi 
(Control of Building Operations) Act, 1955 (No. 53 of 1955) the Delhi Develop- 
ment Provisional Authority, New Delhi, hereby directs that the powers exercis- 
able by it under sections 0 and 7 regarding the grant or refusal of permission to 
erect any building and powers under sections 8, 10 and 12 of thei said Act, may 
also be exercised by the New Delhi Municipal Committee, New Delhi, in respect 
of the following areas, namely; — 

1. Sundar Nagar; 

2. Diplomatic Enclave; 

3. Lajpat Nagar; 

4. Nizamuddln (East); and 

5. New Rajindar Nagar. 

[No. F.l(147)/66-A.} 

New Delhi, the 2nd September 1956 

S.R.O. 2011. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 14 of the Delhi 
(Control of Building Operations) Act, 1955 (53 of 1955) the Delhi Development 
Provisional Authority hereby directs that the powers exercisable under Section 
7 of the said Act in respect of Boundary Walls may also be exercised by the 
Executive Engineers of the Authority, 

[No. F.l(6)/55-Admn.J 
G, MUKHARJI,- Member-Secretary. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 28th August 1956 

S.R.O. io*8. — In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 5 of the Labour Officers (Central Pool 
Recruitment and Conditions of Service Rules, 1951, the Government: of India hereby recognise* 
the institutions mentioned in column I below in respect of the degree or diploma in social wort 
mentioned in the corresponding entry in column II for the purpose of the said sub-rule. 


I 


II 


j, Any University in India established by law 

2. Tata Institute of Social Science, Bombay. 

3. Kashi Vidya Pith, Banaras. 


Any degree or diploma in Social Work 
granted by such University. 

Diploma in Social Science Administration. 
Degree of Master of Applied Sociology. 


[No. LWI-2I(2)/55.} 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 

S.R.O. 2019. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1648 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nomi- 
nates Shri T. S. Parasuraman Deputy Secretary to the Government or India, 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, to be a member of the Advisory Committee 
appointed in the notification of the Government of India In the Ministry of 
Labour No SRO-2087 dated the 21st June, 1954, in the vacancy caused bv the 
resignation of Shri K. Narayanan, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, and makes the following amendment in the 
said notification, namely; — 

Under the heading “(2) Representatives of the Employers", for the entry “I. 
Shri K Narayanan Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Transport, New Delhi”, the entry “I. Shri T. S. Parasuraman, Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India. Ministry of Transport, New Delhi” shall be substituted. 

[No. LWI(I)-0(ll)/56,} 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 153 1 


S.R.O. 2030. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nomi- 
nates Shri T. S. Parasuraman, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Transport, New Delhi, to be a member of the Advisory Board appointed 
in notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. SRO-2088 
•dated the 21st June. 1954, in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri 
K. Narayanan, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Trans- 
port, New Delhi, and makes the following amendment in the said notification, 
namely: — 


Under the heading “(2) Representatives of Employers", for the entry "I. Shri 
X. Narayanan, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Trans- 
port, New Delhi" the entry “I. Shri T. S. Parasuraman, Deputy Secretary to 
the Government of India, Ministry of Transport, New Delhi” shall be substituted. 


[No. LWI(I)-6(II)/56.] 


A. L. HANDA, Under Secy. 

m 


New Delhi, the 3lst August 1956 

S.R.O. 2021. — In pursuance of clause (c) of section 2 of theTndustrial Employ- 
ment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 (20 of 1946), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
In the Ministry of Labour No. LRll(lOO) dated the 80th May 1950, namely: — 

In column 2 of the Schedule to the said notification, against the entry ‘‘Kutch”, 
in column 1, for the words “State Engineer. Kutch, Bhuj", the words "Executive 
Engineer, Kutch, Bhuj”, shall be substituted. 


[No. LR1 1(100).] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 28 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2022. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
<lispute exists between the employers m relation to the Toonka and Chapter 
mice mines of Messrs Daduwala and Company, Bhilwara, and their workmen, 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
•dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and clause 
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Anand Narain Kaul, R.J.S. (Higher), Judge, Industrial Trib unal , 
Rajasthan, Jaipur, shall be the sole member and refers the said dispute for 
adjudication to the said Tribunal. 


Schedule 

1. Whether the workmen who were re- instated are entitled to wages for 

the period from the 4th May to 8th May, 1956, when they were not 
at work. 

2. Whether the action of the management in requiring that the "Kachra” 

(waste mica) be removed and cleared from the places of work by 
the piece-rated mica-cutters on the mines was in order. 

[No. LR-II-57-1 (0) /50.] 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2023. — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that an 
industrial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation tp 
the gold mines of the Kolar Gold Fields, Mysore, specified in Schedule I hereto 
annexed and their workmen regarding the matters specified in Schedule II hereto 
annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dis- 
pute for adjudication; 



1532 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1950 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Madras, constituted under section 7 of the said Act. 

Schedule I 

(1) Mysore Gold Mining Co. (Kolar Gold Field), Ltd. 

(2) Champion Reef Gold Mining Company of India (Kolar Gold Field) 

Limited. 

(3) Nundydroog Gold Mining Company (Kolar Gold Field), Limited. 

(4) Kolar Gold Field Electricity Department, Oorgaum. 

(6) Kolar Mines Power Station (Kolar Gold Field), Oorgaum. 

Schedule II 

Grades of wages for, monthly and daily-rated workmen, including - the date 
with effect from which the new grades, if allowed, should come into force and 
the method of fitting the existing workmen into the new grades. 

[No. LRII-l-67(6)/60.J 
P. D. GAIHA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1950 

S.R.O. 2024. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
10 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (40 of 1948), 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. PF.16(25) dated the 2nd April, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints the following officers to be Inspectors foir the purposes of the Coal Mines 
Bonus Scheme, Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, Hyderabad Coal Mines Bonus 
Scheme, Hyderabad Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, Assam Coal Mines Bonus 
Scheme and Rajasthan Coal Mines Bonus Scheme, and directs that they shall, in 
relation to coal mines, exercise the powers and perform the functions of Inspec- 
tors under the said Act in the States of West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, 
Orissa, Vindhya Pradesh, Assam, Hyderabad and Rajasthan, namely. — 

(1) The Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 

(2) All Regional Labour Commissioners (Central) 

(3) All Conciliation Officers (Central) 

(4) All Labour Inspectors (Central) 

(5) All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) 


[No. PF.1(7)/56.J 


S.R.O. 2025.— In exercise of the, powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
10 of the Coal Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (46 of 1948), 
and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. PF.fl(20)/54-II dated, the 27th June, 1955, the Central Government 
hereby appoints the following Officers to be Inspectors for the purposes of the- 
Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, the Coal Mines Bonus Scheme, the Hydera- 
bad Coal Mines bonus Scheme, the Hyderabad Coal Mines Provident Fund 
Scheme, the Assam Coal Mines Bonus Scheme and the Rajasthan Coal Mines 
Bonus Scheme, and directs that they shall, In relation to coal mines, exercise the 
powers and perform the functions of Inspectors under the said Act in the States 
of West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Vindhya Pradesh, Assam, Hydera. 
bad and Rajasthan; namely: — 

(1) The Coal Mines Provident Fund Commissioner. 

(2) The Assistant, Commissioner, Coal Mines Provident Fund. 

(3) All Provident Fund Inspectors. 


[No. PF.l(7)/56.) 



Past II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 IS33- 


New Delhi , the 3rd September 1956 

S.R.O. 2026.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that a provident 
ind scheme should be framed under the Employees Provident Funds Act 195Z: 
19 of 1952) in respect of the employees of the industries specified in tne tame- 
dow; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section i4 of said Act, 
ie Central Government hereby directs that with effect from 30th Sptember, labor 
e said industries shall be added to Schedule I of the said Act. 


Table 

1. Heavy and line chemicals, including — 

11) Fertilizers 
(ii) Turpentine 
(ili) Rosin 

(Iv) Medical and pharmaceutical preparations 

(v) Toilet preparations 

(vi) Soaps 

(vii) Inks 

(viii) Intermediates, dyes, colour lakhs and toners and 
(ix) Fatty acids. 

2. Indigo 

3. Lac including shellac 

4. Non- edible vegetable and animal oils and fats. 

[No. PF.46(31)/66.]t 


SJl.O. 2027. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section. 
7 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in. 
the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme 1952, namely: — 

In the said Scheme — 

1. in clause (b) of sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 1, sub-clause (ii) shall he- 
re-numbered as (Hi) thereof and the following sub-clause shall be inserted an 
sub-clause (it) namely: — 

"(H) as respects factories relating to the industries added to Schedule I of 
the Act by notification of the Government of India In the Ministry 
Of Labour S.R.O. 2026 dated 3rd September, 1956 come into force on- 
the 30th day of September, 1966". 

2. in clause (kk) of paragraph 2 for the words “Tea, Sugar or Rubber’ the- 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"tea, sugar, rubber, turpentine, rosin, indigo or lac”. 

3. In paragraph 79 the words ‘on or before the 31st day of October 1952’ shall 
be omitted. 


[No. PF.54(39)/36.T 


New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 

S.R.O. 2028. — In pursuance, of paragraph 31(1) (b) of the Employees Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1852, the Central Government hereby nominates Shri P. S.. 
Sundaram, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry to be a member of the Board of Trustees (Central Board), 
Constituted under the said Scheme In the vacancy caused by the resignation of 
it™* t-a ® a ' cse f ia directs that the following amendment shall be made i» 
T C j t f, on th ® Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.RO 
1861, dated the 31st October, 1952, namely: — 



1534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


■■■ — — ~~~ ) — — : =~ 

In the said notification for the entry “3. Shri B. B, Saksena, Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi," the 
following entry should be substituted, namely: — 

“3. Shrl P, S. Sundaram, Deputy Secretary to the Government of Ind 1 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi.” 


[No. PF.33(16)/5» 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Sec 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi-2, the 28 th August 1956 

S.R.O. 2029. — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
■of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 729, dated the 20th March, 1956 for 
the letters “U.K.” read ‘TJ.S.A. 


[No. 8/4/56-FC.] 


New Delhi-2, the 3rd September 1956 

S.R.O. 2030. — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 659 dated the 9th March, 1966, for the 
letters "U.K.” read U.S.A.” 


[No. 8/3/56-FC.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi-2, the 28 th August 1956 
:S.R.O. 2031. — The Central Government hereby: — 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the Order of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.R.O. 3805, dated the 26th December, 1955 and in modification 
of the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 1712, dated the 18th July, 1956, 
that the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at 
Calcutta shall consist of 14 members with effect from the 18th 
August, 1966. 

i(b) appoints, after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors 
the following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the 
said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 18th August, 1966, in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read 
with sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) 
Rules, 1951: — 

1. Shri Arun Kumar Mukherjea. 

2. Shrimati Mira Datta Gupta. 

[No. 14/3/56-FC.] 

New Delhi, the 30th August, 1956 

S.R.O. 2032. — In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the 
provisions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order 
of Government o£ India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
TJo. S.R.O. 946, dated the 28th April, 1955, the Central Government with previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby certifies film specified in 
■column 2 of the schedule hereto annexed, in all its language versions to be of the 



Part II — Sic. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, SEPTEMBER 8 , 1858 1535 


description specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 5 of the said 
schedule. 


Schedule 


S. No. Title of the Film 


Whether a scientific 
him or a film 
intended for edu- 

Nime of the Source of qatlonal purposes 

Producer Supply or film dealing 

with newt and 
current events or 
a documentary 
film. 


I. Indian Nowa Government of India, Government of India, Film dealing with 
Review No. 411 Films Division, Films Division, news and current 
Bombay. Bombay. events. 


[No. 14/2/56-FD.App.99.] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


WOHTO) m MIMA BY TOT GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FRMKJ, 
WW DKLJtf AND PUPTISEED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI. 1956 ' 



