Ho ft° 222 


REGISTERED No. D. UZ 


IF^El 



9TRc1 

<EHe (Saiette of -3ndia 

HTTWYT? H SfipTfeT 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


J nf flwsft, nrfHtrr, 3i, 1968 /hty 9 , isbo 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AUGUST it, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 


NPT if Pro TOR RWT «ft inift $ ftt «wn ifafHH % *<T if YWT *SfT H* I 

Separate paging la given to thla Part in order that It may be filed 
a a a separate compilation. 


NOTICE 


faw htch * wmmrH ytww 20 i968 hv rnriftm fW w:— 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 20th August, 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


274 S.0.2750, dated 2nd August, Ministry of Law 
1968. 


275 S.O. 2751, dated 3rd August, 

1968. 

276 S.O. 2752, dated 5th August, 

1968- 


The names of the members elected 
by the elected members of the 
Legislative Assembly of the 
State of Haryana for the 
Council of States of the same 
State. 


Central Board of The Income-tax (Fourth 
Direct Taxes. Amendment) Rules, 1968.5; 

Ministry of Informa- Approval of the film, as specified 
tion and Broad- therein, 

casting. 


277 S.O. 2753,daged5thAugust, 

1968. 

278 S.O. 2754, dated 6th August, 

1968.’ 


279 S.O. 2776, dated 9th August, 
1968. 


Ministry of The Imports (Control) Fifth 

Commerce. Amendment Order, I968.l'[£ 

Do. The Export of Minerals and 

Ores—Group II. (Inspection) 
Amendment Rules, 1968. 

Do. Recognition of the Gram, Rice 

and Oilseeds Merchants’ Asso¬ 
ciation, Bombay for a further 
period of one year from the 
10th August, 1968, upto the 
9th August, 1968. 


(3871) 












3872 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 (Part II— 


Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject* 

No. 


280 S.O. 2777, dated 9th August, Ministry of Com- Recognition of the Vanaspati 

1968. merce. Manufacturers’ Association of 

India, Bombay for a further 
period of one year from the 
10th August, 1968 upto the 
9th August, 1968. 

281 S.O. 2778 dated 9th August, Ministry of Labour, Referring an industrial dispute for 

1968. Employment and adjudication to the Industrial 

Rehabilitation. Tribunal, Bombay, 

282 S.O. 2814, dated 12th August, Ministry of Informa- Approval of the films as specified 

1968. tion and Broad- therein. 

casting- 

283 S.O.2815,dated 19th August, Election Commis- Calling upon the elected mem- 


1968. 

sion, India. 

bers of the Legislative Assembly 
of the State of Gujarat to 
elect a person in the Council 
of States of the Baid State. 

S.O. 2816, dated i9thAugust, 
1968. 

Do. 

Appointment of dales for the 
above election (S.O. 2815). 

S. 0. 2817, dated 19th August, 
1968. 

Do. 

Fixation of hours for the above 
election (S.O. 2815). 

S.O. 2818, dated 19th August 
1968. 

Do. 

Designating the Secretary Gujaral 
Legislative Secretariat to be 
the Returning Officer of the 
above election (S.O. 2815). 

S.O. 2819,dated 19thAugust, 
1968. 

Do. 

Appointing the under Secretary, 
Gujarat Legislature Secretariat 
to assist the Returning Officer 
for the above election (S-O. 
2815). 

S.O - 2820, dated 20th August, 
1968. 

Ministry of 
Commerce. 

Quality ControFand pre-shipment 
inspection of Palmyra fibre. 


am wromur wrat srirnrt swif, farfaH t tie 

RPm 'tlTA RT I BlTIT WtPP qiR ** T NIHcT f $ Tltt mfW 

3 1 0 frT ^ TfYrTT I 

Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 

NET II —3 —dm»u« (ii) 

PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii) 

(W REEIU Et ^bir) mil TOT $ REratff (BE WE U5TER Hi) #Wr) 

wbtN snfarml wrft faq uq f^fEwr win trfaqwnt£ i 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern¬ 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 31st July 1968 

8,0.2892. —In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the 
Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on the 22nd March, 1968, by the 
High Court of Delhi, New Delhi, in Election Petition No. 1 of 1967. 



Sec. 3 (il)] THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 . 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3873 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI 
ELECTION PETITION No. 1 of 1967 


1. Amftr Nath Gupta son of Shri Bhola Nath, 
aged 52 years, profession business, resident of 
House No. 3163, PhatakNanakChand Charkhe- 
walan, Delhi-6. 


2. Hem Chand son of Shri Sohan Lai Jain 
aged 53 years, resident of House No. 
Mohalla Naugharah, Maliwara, Dclhi-6. 


2000, 


Petitioners 


Versus 


Shri Ram Gopal Shawlwala son of Shri Nand 
Lai R/o 1862, Gali Matawali, Maliwara, 

Delhi-6. Respondent 


S. K, Kapur, J. (oral) 

In this Election Petition challenging the election of Ram Gopal Shawlwala respondent to the 
Lok Sablta from Parliamentary Constituency No. 5, Chandni Chowk, Delhi, the petitioners are 
electors in that Constituency. Notification calling the electors to elect candidates was issued on 
January 13, 1967. January 20, 1967 and January 23. 19^7 were the last dates for filling of the 
nomination papers and for the withdrawal thereof respectively. Polling took place on 19th Febru¬ 
ary, 1967, and in all nine candidates contested election, from this Constituency, to the Lok Sabha. 
Hafiz Ali Bahadur contested as an independent candidate while Sham Nath was nominee of the 
Congress Party. There is a serious controversy so far as the respondent is concerned in as much 
as he claims to be an independent candidate, having the suppot of Jan Sangh Party, while the 
petitioners allege that the respondent was, in fact, a Jan Sangh candidate. One Amrit Lai Jindal, 
who had been nominated as a candidate by the jan Sangh, filed his nomination papers on January 
19,1967, but withdrew the same on January 23,1967. Gurdial Singh Chauhan and SanwalDass, 
being Republican and S.S.P. candidates respectively, also contested the election. Therewerei6 
Municipal Wards and 219 Polling Stations in the Parliamentary Constituency. Two Municipal 
Wards constituted one Metropolitan Council Constituency and it is appropriate to mention the 
names of some of the candidates for election to the Corporation and Metropolitan Council. From 
Kalan Masjid area Sham Kishorc Gupta and Ram Babu Maheshwari were Jan Sangh Candidates 
for the Corporation and the Metropolitan Council respectively. The Metropolitan Council 
Constituency consisted of Kalan Masjid and Kucha Ram areaB. Ram Babu Maheshwari won at 
the election. Jambu Prasad was a Jan Sangh candidates for the Corporation from Dariba while 
Kishan Lai Cutpicccwale was a Jan Sangh candidate from Dariba and Maliwara areaB for the Me¬ 
tropolitan Council. Mohd. AjmaJkhan and Master Noor-ud-Din were Jan Sangh candidates from 
Matia Mahal area for the Corporation and the Metropolitan Council respectively. Anwar Dehlvi 
contested the election as a Jan Sangh candidate for the Metropolitan Council from Ballimaran and 
Naya Bans Constituency. Kishan Lai Goyal and Vaid Vidya Rattan were Jan Sangh candidates 
for the Corporation from Ballimaran and Naya Bans areas respectively. From Farash Khana 
Constituency Atiq-ul-Rehmanand Muni Lai Jain were the Jan Sangh nominees for the Corporation 
and the Metropolitan Council respectively. These names have been mentioned by me as one of 
the points made by the petitioners was that as a matter of policy Jan Sangh had set up Muslim 
candidates in areas haying Muslim predominance ami Ali Bahadur had been set up by the Jan 
Sangh in pursuance of that policy to neutralise Muslim votes which otherwise would have gone 
to the Congress. According to Mr. Ramcshwar Dial, the learned counsel for the 
petitioners, the modus operands adopted by the Jan Sangh was that there used to 
be a joint election propaganda by the respondent with the other Jan Sangh candidates for 
the Corporation and the Metropolitan Council in their different Constituencies falling within the 
larger Constituency of the respondent. Total votes in the said Parliamentary Constituency were 
about 2 lacs while the total votes polled were 1,33,786. The respondent secured the maximum 
number of votes being 58,928, while Sham Nalh and Hafiz Ali Bahadur got 41,778 and 2t.6os 
voted respectively. According to Mr. Rameshwar Dial, one fact which has a considerable bearing 
on the case, and of which he reminded me several times in the course of his arguments, is that there 
were about 55,000 Muslim votes, a large part of which were expected to be cast in favour of the 
Congress and, therefore, if Bome of the Muslim votes were taken away by a non-Congrcss candidate 



3874 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part fl¬ 


it would have helped the respondent, The allegations in the petition arc only of corrupt practices 
One of the allegations is that the respondent paid Rs. 500/- to Hnfiz Ali Bahadur to cnnbe the 
latter to deposit his security while the other allegations relate to the distribution and display of 
certain pamphlets and posters etc. 

Before I take up the discussion of the evidence, it is necessary to consider the nature of the 
burden of proof in such matters. Mr. Rameshwar Dial, the learned counsel for the petitioners, 
does not dispute that the charge of corrupt practice is in the nature of a criminal charge and, there¬ 
fore the petitioners arc expected to prove the allegations of corrupt practices beyond any reasonable 
doubt. He, however, says that the burden is not exactly the same as in a criminal case because 
there are certain qualifications, namely :— 

(1) though a finding of corrupt practice cannot be based on more preponderance of probabili¬ 

ties and a clear and cogent proof beyond reasonable doubt Is necessary but still the 
respondent’s evidence should, unlike i n a criminal case, be taken into consideration for 
deciding whether or not corrupt practices have been proved ; 

(2) in a criminal case an accused person may not produce any evidence but in election case s 
certain circumstances mayraiseanobligationagainstLhe respondent to produce evidence 
on certain matters and his failure to do so would entitle the Court to draw an adverse 
inference in the same manner as in any other civil trial; 

(3) if the respondent withholds evidence which he could produce an adverse inference 

should be drawn that if produced the evidence would have gone against the respondent 
and 

(4) when full evidence has been led by both the parties then the burden of proof is as much 
immaterial in an election case as in any other civil case. 

Mr. Rameshwar Dial relics on Gucfi Reddi v.Anianey a Reddy, 22 E.L.R. 261 at p.268, Sheopal, 
Singh v. Ram Pratan,A- I.R. 1965 S-C. 677 at p. 679, and Kundan I.al, v. Custodian Evacuee Property 
A.I.R. 1961 S.C. 1316 at p. 1319, inOangi Reddy’s case their Lordships of the Supreme Courtsaid 

“Burden of proof has two distinct meanings, via., (1) the burden of proof as a matter of 
law and pleading, and(»i) the burden ofproof as a matter of adducing evidence. Section 
rot deals with tne former and section 102 with the latter. The first remains constan 
and the second shifts.” 

In that :tse the all actions against the elected candidate were that in two leaflets he had made 
false statements igalnst the Petitioner in the election petition, believing them to be false or not 
believing them to be true. The said petitioner appeared as a witness and denied those allegations. 
He also placed cirtaln circum stances before the Court indicating a clear motive on the part of the 
elected candidate Co mnkefalsc allegations. It was held that a Court could accept the evidenceof 
the petitioner and, consequently, the burden shifted on the returned candidate to dislodge the 
assertions of the petitioner. In Sheopal Singh’s case their Lordships of the Supreme Court said— 

“The burden of proof as a matter oflaw and as a matter of adducing evidence is on the res¬ 
pondent who, seeks to get the election set aside, to establish corrupt practice, but, if 
he adduces sufficient evidence, as in this case we are satisfied he nas, the burden of 
adducing evidence shifts on the appellant. That apart when the entire evidence has 
been adduced in the case the question of burden of proof becomes merely academical.” 

Mr. Marwah, the learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, suggests that the 
“burden on the petitioners to prove corrupt practice is as heavy as in any other criminal trial. It 
appears to me that the charge of corrupt practices, being in the nature of a criminal charge, the 
petitioners must prove the same beyond reasonable doubt. Of course, the burden, may in certain 
circumstances, shift on certain matter in the sense that if the petitioner has led cogent evidence t» 
prove those matters the respondent may be expected to dislodge the same, but primarily and, in the 
first Instance, the proof of corrupt practices must depend on the evidence of the petitioner. Mr. 
Marwah points out that in cases where the question is whether or not statements in certain pamphlet 
orposter or otherpubllcatlonaUeged against a candidate as to his personal character are correct 
or not and that person swears that they are not correct then and then alone, and in no other case, 
does not the burden shift to the respondent. It is not, however, necessary in the circumstances 
ofthis case to categorise all such cases where the burden shifts. That takes me to the examination 
of the evidence o f the p arties. 

The first alligation of corrupt practice is tne subject-matter of issues Nos. to and 11, which 
are as under:— 

“10. Whether respondent No. 1 paid Rs. 500/- to respondent No. 2 on 20th January 1967 
gift with the object of inducing respondent No. 2 to stand as a candidate at the elec¬ 
tion? 

11. In case issue No. to be decided in favour of the petitioners, whether the payment ofthe 
native amount constitutes corruptpcacdcc ?” 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968 /BHADRA 9, 1890 3875 


The suggestion ofthc petitioners is thai the respondent was approached by Jan Sangh to contest 
the election hut he insisted that unless a dummy Muslim candidate was set up to neutralise he 
Muslim votes expected to be cast in favour of the Congress he would not be willing to contest. 
For this reason efforts were made by various persons to find out a Muslim candidate willing 
contest as a dummy candidate and ultimately the choice fell on Hafiz All Bahadur who agreed 
to stand as ft dummy candidate. Hafiz All Bahadur had no money and, therefore, the respondent 
sutmlied him Rs. 500/- for the purpose of depositing the security. Further details of this aspect 
will be dealt with when considering the evidence o) the parties. r l he evidence ot the petitioners 
consists of— 


(a) eye-witnesses who saw Rs. 500/- being paid by the respondent to Hafiz Ali Bahadur; 

(b) witnesses who did not sec the payment but saw the respondent and Hafiz Ali Bahadur 

in the election office on 20th January, 1967, the date on which the money, is alleged 

to have been paid; 

(c) witnesses who said that Jan Sangh approached certain Muslim to contest the election 

tothcLok Sabha; 

(j\ witnesses in support of rhe allegation of the petitioners that Hafiz Ali Bahadur and 
' ' the respondent had Lhe same palling agents at polling station No, 155; 

0 ) witnesses who spoke about some persons having approached Hafiz Ali Bahadur to speak 
in public meetings but he said that he will not speak against Jan Sangh; 

(f) witnesses who attended public meetings addressed by Hafiz Ali Bahadur whereat he 

did not speak against Jan Sangh; and 

(g) witnesses who spoke about Hafiz Ali Bahadur touring Jama Masjid area in the company 

of Master Noor-ud-din, a Jan Sangh candidate, and some other locaHvorkers. 


The eye-witnesses arc: Sayeed Khan (P.W. 24), mohd. Syed Biliali (P.W. *12) and H. S. Kauahal 
(P.W. 51). Mohd. Syed Biliali (P.W. 42) inter alia stated that there was a meeting called by Anwar 
Dehlvi, who was contesting election for the Metropolitan Council as a Jan Sangh candidate, at his 
house on 10th January, 1967, which was attended by the witness that at that meeting ways and 
means were discussed for helping Jan Sangh in the election that Master Noor-ud-Din, Atiq-ul- 
Rehman Kidwai, Afzal Pesawari and Ram Babu Maheshwari were also present that “it was sug¬ 
gested by Shri Ram Babu that in the areas where predominance was of Muslim voters, Muslim 
candidate should be set up and in areas where predominance was of Hindus but there were consi¬ 
derable Muslim voters, Hindu Jan Sangh candidate should be set up besides a dummy independent 
Muslim candidate so that Muslim voters in favour of the Congress may be deflected" that Ram 
Babu also suggested that the religious feelings of the Hindus and Muslims should be aroused by 
making appeals to them on the basis of their religion not to vote for the Congress but Afzal 
Peshwari protested against that and said that he would not permit religion to be brought in politics 
that Afzal Peshwari, therefore, left the meeting that Anwar Dehlvi again met the witness on 14th 
January 1967, at the witnesses’ house and informed him that Jan Sangh was desirous of nominating 
the respondent as its candidate but the respondent’s condition was that he would agree to contest 
the election only if an independent influential dummy Muslim candidate was set up for the purpose 
of neutralising the Muslim votes of the Congress; that Anwar Dehlvi also informed the witness 
hat he had a talk with three or four persons such as Moulana Mazar Mufti and Dr. Mirza Ahmed 
Ali but they had declined to contest the electiont; that the name of Hafiz Ali Bahadur was then 
suggested because he had recently issued a poster that Muslims should set up their candidates 
to defeat the Congress that the witness suggested to Anwar Dehlvi to approach Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
whose name Anwar Dehlvi approved; that Anwar Dehlvi again went to the witness after two day* 
and informed him that Hafiz Ali Bahadur was not willing to contest the election and it had, there¬ 
fore, been decided to nominate Amrit Lai Jindal as a Jan Sangh candidate and Sheikh Mohd. 
Abdullah as a Muslim independent dummy candidate; that on 20th January, 1967, Anwar Dehlvi 
went to the witness again at about 10-15 A.M. and said that Hafiz Ali Bahadur bad been persuaded 
and that the witness should go and sign Hafiz Ali Bahadur’s nomination papers as a proposer; 
hat the witness, therefore, went with Answar Delilvi; to the respondent’s shop in Moti Bazar and 
was there introduced to the respondent by Anwar Dehlvi; that two other persons were present 
at the shop and the respondent directed one of the two persons to “bring him to the Fountain in 
Chandni Chowk”; that the respondent then took some money from the cash box and the respon¬ 
dent, Anwar Dehlvi and the witness went to the Fountain in Chandni Chowk; that the person 
sent by the respondent to bring “him" reached the Fountain accompanied by three other persona 
and those three persons, Anwar Dehlvi, the respondent and the witness took two taxies and wont 
to the election office at about 11 or 11-15 A.M. that they saw Hafiz Ali Bahadur and Sayeed Khan 
(P.W. 24) wailing at the election office that Anwar Dehlvi introduced Hafiz Ali Bahadur and 
Sayeed Khan to the respondent; that the respondent, the witness, Hafiz Ali Bahadur, Sayeed Khan 
and the aforementioned other three persons went near the counter in the election office, stood under 
a tree and the respondent took out five hundred rupee notes and gave them to Hafiz Ali Bahadur; 
that Hafiz Ali Bahadur then completed his nomination forms and one of such forms was signed 
by the witness as a proposer while the other form was signed by Sayeed Khan (P.W. 24) as a 
proposer; that the respondent told Hafiz Ali Bahadur to deposit Rs. 500/- as security and Hafiz 
Ali Bahadur and Sayeed Khan went to the counter to deposit the money; and that the respondeat 



3876 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part U— 


deposited his security thereafter and then all of them, namely, Hafiz All Bahadur, the witness, 
the respondent, Sayeed Khan and the three other above-named persons went to the Court of 
Shti Rajinder Jain for filing the nomination papers. This witness further Btatcd that for the pur¬ 
pose of the election he converted his fortnightly paper into a daily paper and on the same date, 
that is, 20th January, 1967, he filed a declaration for such conversion in the Press Branch, which 
was located in the same building in which Shri Rajinder Tain's Court was situate, at about 3-30 
P.M. and that declaration form was filled in by Anwar Dehlvi. In cross-examination the witness 
stated that till he got the summons he had no knowledge about the election petition and he had 
no talk with cither of the petitioners or any one also about the facts disclosed by him in his 
evidence; that he never suggested to Hafiz Ali Bahadur to contest the election; and that he had 
not known Hafiz Ali Bahadur though he had heard about him. He, however, said that during 
the elections be visited Hafiz Ali Bahadur’s house, for the first time, on or about 12th February, 
1967, but had been visiting his house prior to the election. He was, however, unable to give the 
number of Hafiz Ali Bahadur’s house. It was also admitted by the witness that on 20th January, 
1967, he filed his own nomination papers at 1-20 or 1-25 p.m. "in the Court of Shri Chaturvedi. 
It has been strongly urged by Mr. Marw ah that a person who had to file his own nomination 
papers as well as the declaration form on that very day would be more interested in following up 
his own matters rather than spending all the time in attending to Hafiz Ali Bahadur’s nomination 
papers etc. Mr. Marwah further points out that, as admitted by the witness, he deposited his 
security on the last date i.e. January 20, 1967. The case set up by the witness was that his 
nomination forms had been filled in at 9-00 A.M. at his house and he had deputed hiB younger 
brother to deposit his security and meet him in Shri Chaturvedi’s Court. This witness, how¬ 
ever, withdrew his candidature “probably on 27th January, 1967”. One more criticism levelled 
against this witness by Mr. Marwah is that Anwar Dehlvi met the witness at about 10 or 
10-15 A.M. on the 20th January, T967, and told him that Hafiz Ali Bahadur had agreed to contest 
the election and the witness should go and sign the nomination form of Hafiz Ali Bahadur. 
Till that time the witness did not know that he will be required for that work. In that situation 
It was difficult to accept that the witness would have got his nomination form etc. completed at 
9-00 a.m. when he did not know that he would have to accompany Hafiz AU Bahadur to the 
election office. Mr. Marwah also says that he is an interested witness because he was appointed 
as Imam of a mosque on Church Mission Road by the Delhi Wakf Board of which Mir Mushtaq 
Ahmed, till recently President of the Pradesh Congress Committee, was a member. 


The next eye-witness to the payment of Rs. 500/- is Sayeed Khan (P.W. 24). He was 
proposer in one of the nomination forms. He went to Hafiz Ali Bahadur’s house on January 
20, 1967, at about, xo-oo A.M. when Anwar Dehlvi was also present and was persuading Hafiz 
Ali Bahadur to stand for the election, Hafiz Aii Bahadur was not agreeing. According to this 
witness, Anwar Dehlvi impressed upon Hafiz Ali Bahadur the important of defeating the Congress 
and told him that that aim could be achieved only if he agreed to conttcs the election. The witness 
further that— 

“Shri Anwar Dehlvi and further said that the amount of deposit in connection with the 
nomination would be given by Shti Ram Gopal Shawlwala (respondent). Shri 
Anwar Dehlvi had asked Shri Ali Bahadur to come to the Court and had said that he 
would bring Shri Ram Gopal Shawlwala also to the court and the rest of the matter 
would be settled there. I had taken Shri Ali Bahadur to the court.” 

Rest of the story about the payment of Rs. 50o/- by the respondent to Hafiz Ali Bahadur as given 
by this witness is broadly the same as disclosed by Mohd. Sayeed Billali (P.W. 42), The witness, 
however, did not speak about any talk at the time of payment of Rs. 500/- between the respondent 
and Hafiz Ali Bahadur. The criticism levelled by Mr. Marwah against this witness is that— 

(r) The witness admittedly was on visiting terms with Mir Mushtaq Ahmed, a Congress 
candidate at the election and also President of the Delhi Provincial Congress Com¬ 
mittee and, therefore, an interested witness, and 

(2) reference to the nomination form Exhibit p. 1 shows that the signatures and the other 
writing are in different ink thereby indicating that the witness merely signed the blank 
form as a proposer and, therefore, the story that the form was filled in the election 
office and signed by the witness there was not correct. 


H. S. Kaushal (P.W, 51) was a candidate for Corporation from Naya Bans Constituency in 1967 
and according to this witness he was merely a covering candidate for the Congress. He filed 
his nomination papers on 19th January, 1967. The witness stated that he went to the election 
office on January 20,1967, to fetch a voters’ list that he left his house at about 10-15 A.M. reaching 
the election office at about 10-30 or 10-45 a.m. that he knew the respondent as well as Hafiz Ali 
Bahadur that in the election office he saw Hafiz Ali Bahadur, the respondent, Anwar Dehlvi and 
4 or 5 other persons standing together; and that he saw the respondent taking out some money 
from his pocket and giving it to Hafiz Ali Bahadur. According to this witness, Hafiz Ali Bahadur, 
after taking the money, went into the queue for depositing the security and after two or three minu¬ 
tes he was followed by the respondent who also went and stood in the queue. Hafiz Ali Bahadur 



Sec. 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3877 


came out of die queue after depositing the money and the respondent also followed him after 
substituting somebody also for him in the queue for depositing the security. The witness further 
stated that he then saw the respondent. Anwar Dehlvi, Hafiz Ali Bahadur and one or two other 
persons going out of the ompound of the election office that he followed then because he suspected 
that “something was wrong somewhere in Shri Hafiz Ali Bahadur accepting the money from the 
respondent” that the party went to Shri Rajinder Jain’s Court and the witness followed them there 
also that the respondent and Hafiz All Bahadur entered the Court room of Shri Rajinder Jain and 
he witness kept waiting outside when he met Dr. Dhawan and told Dr. Dliawan about "the new 
alliance bwteecn the respondent and Shri Hafiz Ali Bahadur”. In this cross-examination the wit- 
nesi stated that for purchasing the list of voters he deposited Rs. 15/- on January 20,1967, and went 
personally to deposit the money. The respondent summoned the records of the election office, 
including the counter-foils of the receipts issued and the cash book showing the money deposited 
on 30th January, 1967, on account of security or the price of the voter’s lists through Muni Lai 
Jain (R.W. 3). In the first instance Muni Lai said that though he had brought all the counter-foils 
of the moneys deposited on 20th January, 1967, yet that may not be hundred per cent accurate 
statement of thejposition and the cash book would exactly show who deposited what amount and 
on what date. The witness then brought the cash book as well and neither the counter-foils of 
the receipts nor the cash book showed any amount deposited by H. S. Kaushal (P.W. 51) on 20th 
January, 1967, or, as a matter of fact, any sum of Rs. 15/- by any one on 20th January, 1967. 
Though the witness said that price of the voters’ list was Rs. 9/- but according to Muni Lai Jam 
(R-W. 3), an Accountant in the election office and Head Clerk in that office at the relevant time, 
price of the voters’ list was about Rs. 5/- and odd paise. Mr. Marwah says that omission of the 
said deposit in the cash book, copy whereof is Exhibit R.W. 9, is, by itself, sufficient to completely 
discard the evidence of this witness. Mr. Rameshwar Dail, the learned counsel for the petitioners, 
on the other hand, points out that the cash book mentions certain numbers of the receipts such as 
Nos. 0695524 to 0695530, Nos. M. 418496 to M. 4x8500 and counter-foils of those receipts have 
not been produced and that receipt No. M. 418535 has been entered twice, which show that all 
the counter-foils of the receipts issed on 20th January, 1967, have not been produced and no 
reliance can be placed on the counter-foils. He further points out that the cash book had been 
according to the statement of Muni Lai Jain (R.W. 3 ), prepared from the counter-foils of the 
receipts at the end of each day of the deposits or sometimes even later. Khub Ram Jajoria (P.W. 
23), who was a candidate for the Metropolitan Council as well as for Lok Sabha said that he had 
gone to deposit his security on 20th January, 1967, and saw the respondent, Hafiz AH Bahadur, 
Anwar Dehlvi, and J. N. Vashisht (P.W. 32) in the election office between 12-30 p.M. to 1.00 
p.M. The respondent in his statement said that this witness bore a grudge towards him because 
he had once got the witness expelled from an Arya Vir Dal Meeting in 1944. Dr. I. C- Dhawan 
(P.W. 28) saw both the respondent and Hafiz Ali Bahadur at about 1-30 p. m. in the verandah 
outside Shri Rajinder Jain’s Court. The respondent on the other hand, stated that he had never 
even seen Hafiz Ali Bahadur before 19th February, 1967, and it was on 21-2-1967 that he, for the 
first time, accosted Hafiz Ah Bahadur in the Exmbition Ground where counting of votes was 
going on. J. N. Vashisht (P.W. 32), a candidate for Metropolitan Council, went to deposit his 
security and saw Hafiz Ali Bahadur the respondent and Anwar Dehlvi in the election office at 
about 1-00 or 1-10 P.M. on 20th January, 1967. This witness admitted having contacts with Sham 
Nath for about 9 or 10 years and was a Congress candidate at the election. Mr. Marwah points 
out that though Khub Ram Jajoria (P.W. 23) stated that he saw Deep Chand also in the queue 
depositing security but according to this witness Deep Chand did not go to the election office on 
that day and his security was deposited bv the witness. Mufti Zia-ul-Haq (P.W. 50) stated that 
Atiq-ul-Rehman, a Jan Sangh candidate for the Metropolitan Council (in fact he was a candidate 
for the Corporation) asked him to contest election to Lok Sabha as that would help the respondent 
but the witness dochned. This witness, according to Mr, Marwah, was an office-bearer of the 
Congress and it was, therefore, impossible that he would be approached for such an unholy affiance. 
Sham Nath (P.W. 56) said that Zia-ul-Haq (P.W. 50) told him about certain persons having ap¬ 
proached him for contesting the election. This witness, however, did not say for what purpose 
was the approach made. He further stated that Zia-ul-Haq did not name the persons who had ap¬ 
proached him on the ground that he did not like to disclose the same. 


Regarding Hafiz Ali Bahadur and the respondent having the same polling agents at polling 
station No. 155, Asaf Ali (P.W. 36) claimed to be the polling agent of the respondent, Anwar 
Dehlvi and Kisnan Lai Goyal. He, however, s lated that he was not the polling agent of any other 
candidate. The respondent in his statement denied that he had appointed Asaf Ali as his polling 
agent and said that he had signed several blank forms for appointment of polling agents and some¬ 
one may have filled in that form. Mohd. Israil (P.W. 27) claimed to be the polling agent of Sham 
Nath and corroborated Asaf Ali (P.W. 36) that the latter was the polling agent of the respondent. 
He, however, said that Hafiz Ali Bahadur had no polling agent. The evidence of these two wit¬ 
nesses, however, even if taken at its face-value, does not prove the allegation of the petitioners 
that the respondent and Hafiz Ali Bahadur had common polling agents. Shri S. N. Dixit (P.W. 
43 b the Presiding Officer of polling station No, 155, proved the polling agents’ appointment forms 
o f the respondent, Hafiz Ali Bahadur and Sham Nath said that the polling agents appointed 
had signed those forms in his presence. This witness, however, was not in a position to state 
whether the persons appointed as polling agents actually worked as such or not. Munna Lai 




3878 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


Gupta (P.w. 5 ) approached Hafiz AH Bahadur for making a speech in a public meeting in favour 
of his brother Raiinder Kishore Aggarwal, who was contesting as an independent candidate for 
the Corporation from Lai Darwaza Constituency. Mr. Marwah says that this witness was in- 
in as much as he was working for Sham Nath and was Vice President of Sahyogi Samaj 
of which Rajindcr Kishore (P.W. 31) was the Secretary and Sham Nath the Chairman as disclosed 
by Kishan Lai (R.W. 16). No such question was, however, asked from th e witness by the respon¬ 
dent. This was, however, put to the witness on behalf of the respondent that he had come to make 
the statement on account of his association with Sham Nath. Munna Lai Gupta (P.W. 5), however, 
admitted that he did not know Hafiz Ali Bahadur before and had never heard his speech in public. 
Rajmder Kishore Aggarwal (P.W. 31) also approached Hafiz AH Bahadur for a similar purpose 
the later told him that he would not speak against Jan Sangh. A.M. Zutshi (P.W. 45) asked 
Hafiz Ali Bahadur why he was contesting the election and Hafiz Ali Bahadur told him that he 
must make Jan Sangh win and defeat the Congress. Aziz Ahmad Warsi (P.W. 9) was produced 
to prove that he attended a public meeting addressed by Hafiz Ali Bahadur in which the latter did 
not speak against Jan Sangh. This witness, however, stated that Hafiz Ali Bahadur asked the 
Muslims to vote for him. Harbans Lai (P. W. 39) merely saw Hafiz Ali Bahadur touring with 
Master Noor-ud-Din, a Jan Sangh candidate, in Jama Masjid area accompanied by some local 
workers. 


. The respondent’s version, on the othet hand, is that his wif e had been imprisoned in connection 
with the anti-cow slaughter agitation and had to be released from the Jail on 20th January, 1967. 
He went to the jail, which is at a distance of about 12 miles from Dewan Hall, to receive her, 
met Hawa Singh (R. W. 2), Assistant Jail Supeirntendent, and requested him that as the respondent 
had a number of other matters to attend he would be grateful if the respondent’s wife could be 
released earlier. There were In all about 239 prisoners to be released on that day and he, therefore, 
remained outside the jail from 9-45 A.m. to about if 30 A.M. He had to stay on there because 
he and his other companions including Dr. Girdhari Lai Dhalla (R.W. 7), who also had gone to 
receive the prisoners, had to make transport arrangement for the 239 released prisoners. The 
respondent further stated that he had gone to the Jail straight from his Krishan Nagar house and 
Came back to Dewan HaU accompanied by his wife and a few others; that till then he had not decided 
to stand for the election though some persons were pressing him for that: that he reached Dewan 
HaH at about r2 or ra-rf p.m., stayed there for about five minutes and went back to his house 
“Knshan Nagar; that at about 12-30 p.m. he received a telephonic call from Dr. Girdhari Lai 
Dhalla when the latter first talked to his wife and told her to send the respondent to Dewan Hall 
as his nomination papers had to be filed but the respondent’s wife told Dr. DhaHa that about election 
matters he should talk to the respondent direct; that Dr. DhaHa did talk to the respondent; that 
the respondent went back to Dewan Hall at about r-00 P.M. and by that time the respondent's 
friends had sent Prabhat Kumar (R.W. 28) to deposit Inis security and at that rime the respondent’s 
two nomination forms were filled in, one by Dcs Raj (except that in that form the name of the res¬ 
pondent’s father was filled in by the respondent himself) and one by the respondent himself. 
Prabhat Kumar and Dr. Girdhari Lai DhaHa (R.W. 7) signed the two forms as proposers; and 
that from Dewan HaH the respondent, accompanied by Dr. Dhalla , Prabhat Kumar and Vaid 
Prahlad Dutt went straight to the Court of Shri Rajinder Jain and filed his nomination papers at 
2-10 P.M. The respondent also stated that there was no question of his meeting Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
as alleged by the petitioners as he did not even know him at least till 23rd January, 1967. In his 
version the respondent is supported by Prabhat Kumar (R.W. 28), Dr. Girdhari Lei DhaHa 
(R.W. 7) and Hawa Singh (R.W. 2). Hawa Singh (R.W. 2) brought the jail register showing that 
the respondent’s wife was, in fact, released from the Jail on January 20, 1967. Hawa Singh also 
stated that on 20th January, 1967, at about 9- 45 A.M. he met the respondent outside the jail when 
the respondent requested him to sec that his wife was released as soon as possible. Hawa Singh 
claimed to have know the respondent as the latter had been confined to jail on several occasions 
and had also been visiting the jail to see his wife and other prisoners. About G/rdhari Lai Dhalla 
(R.W. 7), Mr. Rameshwar Dial points out that in his statement recorded on 22nd February, 1968, 
the witness stated that he remained in the jail area till ro- 30 A.M. but when his statement was 
continued on 27th February, 1968, he improved upon his version to make it fit in the story proposed 
to be put forth by the respondent in his evidence and stated that he remained in the jail precincts 
till 11-30 a.m. and reached Dewan HaH at 12-00 noon or 12-15 p.m. Mr. Rameshwar Dial also 
says that (1) if the respondent and his wife left Dewan HaU at 12-15 P.M. they may not have even 
reached their Krishan Nagar House by 12-30 p.m.; (2)in any case, if Dr. Dhalla and the respondent 
were together till 12-15 P.M. there was no point in Dr. Dhalla talking to the respondent again at 
12-30 p.m.; and (3) Dr, DhaUa's earlier statement that he stayed in the jail area rill about 10-30 a.m. 
derived support from the fact that the witness admitted that he reached the jail in a taxi at about 
9-15 or 9-30 a.m. and detained the taxi for one hour. Regarding the nomination forms being 
filled in at Dewan Hail, as alleged by the respondent, Mr. Rameshwar Dial says that Dr, Dhalla 
admitted that the list not voters was ot available in Dewan HaH and in absence thereof the nomina¬ 
tion forms could not have been filled in there. Dr. DhaHa sought to explain this on the ground 
that Des Raj, father of Prabhat Kumar, as weU as Prabhat Kumar, were carrying slips which 
contained the voters’ numbers of the persons concerned, including the respondent. According, 
to Mr. Rameshwar Dial, if - respondent had reaUy not made up his mind, as suggested by him 


Sec. 3(ii):i THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3879 


to contest the election till about 1-00 p.m. then there was no reason why Des Ra) and Prabhat 
Kumar should have been carrying slips containing the voters’ numbers. Regarding Hawa Singh 
(R.W. 2), Mr. Rameshwar Dial contends that he had brought the jail register which either contained 
the time of release of each prisoner or it did not. Tf it contained the time it was the duty of the 
respondent to have the register placed on the record as that alone could have lent veracity to the 
statement of the witness that the respondent’s wife was released between 10 and 10-30 A.M. If 
on the other hand, the register did not contain that entry then no reliance could be placed on the 
oral statement of Hawa Singh particularly when there were in all 239 prisoners to be released 
and Hawa Singh had himself admitted that sometimes the prisoners could be released even at 9- 00 
A.M. Mr. Rameshwar Dial fnthcr points out that Prem Chand Gupta (R.W. 25) had stated that 
he reached the election office at 11 A.M. and when he was in the queue for depositing his security, 
Prabhat Kumar (R.W. 28) was eight persons ahead of him in the queue and that showed that 
Prabhat Kumar could not have gone to the election office to deposit the respondent’s security at 
about 12-00 noon ns alleged on the side of the respondent. The serial number of the counter-foil 
of the receipt of deposit of security by Prem Chand Gupta is 0695838 while that of the respondent 
is 0695829. I may straightaway say that I would not attach much value to this criticism by Mr. 
Rameshwar Dial as Prem Chand Gupta admitted that he left the election office at 1-00 P.M. and 
he might have made a slight mistake about the time. The fact, however, remains that the serial 
numbers of the counter-foils of the receipts mentioned above show that the persons who deposited 
the respondent’s security was eight or nine persons ahead of Prem Chand Gupta. That is the 
rival version of the parties with respect to the payment of Rs. 50o/- to Hafiz Alt Bahadur. Mr. 
Marvvah also relies on the statement of Anwar Dehlvl (R.W. 29) who denied the allegations made 
in this behalf by P.W. 24 and P.W. 42, Sayecd Khan and Mohd. Sayed Billali respectively. Anwar 
Dehlvi (R.W. 2g) denied any efforts to set up a Muslim candidate haring been made as alleged 
by Mohd. Sayed Billali (P.W. 42) and further stated that he did not see Hafiz Ali Bahadur at all 
in that connection; that he did not even know the respondent till 23rd January, 1967; that he 
having later come to know the respondent he could sHy that he neither saw the respondent nor 
Hafiz Ali Bahadur in the election office on 20th January, 1967, and that no money passed from the 
respondent to Hafiz Ali Bahadur in his presence. Mr. Rameshwar Dial points out that this 
witness admittedly remained in the Jan Sangh camp throughout the day and could not have 
any occasion to see who all were present. This criticism, however, overlooks the fact that accord¬ 
ing to the petitioners, Anwar Dehlvi was a party to that payment. Before I say anything on the 
individual witnesses I may point out that there arc certain inherent improbabilities in the story put 
forth by the petitioners in this behalf— 

(1) Sayeed Khan (P.W. 24) and Mohd. Sayed Billali (P.W. 42) did not know the respondent 
admittedly till January 20, 1967. The respondent should have known that if he paid 
Ra. 500/- to Hafiz Ali Bahadur that would entail his disqualification even if he be 
ultimately elected. In that situation, it is not reasonable to believe that the respondent 
would have paid Rs. 500/- to Hafiz Ali Bahadur in the presence of utter strangers. 

(2) Hafiz Ali Bahadur should have known that contesting election would email not only 

the deposit of Rs. 500/- but also an expense of a much larger amount, yet I have it 
from the evidence of Sayecd Khan (P.W. 24) that— 

“Shri Anwar Dehlvi was pur suing the matter. He had impressed upon ShriAli Bahadur 
that the aim was to inflict defeat on the Congress and that aim could be achieved 
only if Shrl Ali Bahadur would contest the election. Hafiz Ali Bahadur had replied 
that he had not resources and was unable to contest the election. Shri Anwar Dehlvi 
had then said that he had been deputed by the Jan Sangh which intended to put 
up Shri Ram Gopal Shawlwala as its candidate and that Shri Ram Gopal would 
contest only if Shri Ali Bahadur would do so. Shri Anwar Dehlvi had, further, 
said that the amount of deposit in connection with the nomination would be given 
by Shri Ram Gopal Shawlwala.” 

In the election pcition the petitioners had alleged in paragraph 18 that respondent Ram Gopal 
induced Hafiz Alt Bahadur to 3tand as a candidate for Lok Sabha from Chandni Chowk Parliamen¬ 
tary Constituency and incurred expenses concerning the election campaign of respondent No. 2. 
It appears from the order of H.R. Khanna, J. dated September 6, 1967— 

"Although othet allegations of financial help by respondent No. 1 to respondent No. 2 
were made in the petition, the learned counsel for the petitioners has stated that for 
the precise corrupt practice they confine themselves to the allegation that on 20th 
January, 1967, at the election office, Delhi, respondent No. 1 paid a sum of Rs. 500/- 
to respondent No. 2 as a gift with the object of inducing him to stand as a candidate 
at the election.” 

In view of this, I am necessarily driven to proceed with this case on the assumption that 
the only allegation made by the petitioners was that the respondent paid Rs. 500/- 
to Hafiz AJi Bahadur as a gift for standing at the election. Mr. Rameshwar Dial, 
t he learned counsel for the petitioners points out that that statement amounted to 
nothing more than saying that the petitioners will rely only the payment of Rs. 500/- 
as a corrupt practice and that did not debar him from alleging in aid of the present 





3880 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


issues that, in fact, the other expenses of Hafiz Ali Bahadur had also to be borne by 
Ram Gopnl Shawlwala. There is not even an iota of evidence that the respondent 
ever undertook or agreed to pay any money or bear any expenses of Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
besides Rs. 500/-. As a matter of fact, the statement of Sayecd Khan (P.W. 24) suggets 
to the contrary. Mr. Rameshwar Dial says that as a matter of fact he did want to 
adduce evidence in this behalf but he was disallowed by order passed by Air. Justice 
Om Parkash on October 31,1967. Be that as it may, the fact remains that before me 
there is no evidence showing that any other financial aid was either promised or given 
by respondent Ram Goapl. In that situation, it appears difficult to accept that 
Hafiz Ali Bahadur couldhave agreed to stand as a dummy candidate on the behest 
of the respondent or his friends merely because security amount of Rs. 500/-was being 
paid to him by the respondent. That apart, there is other evidence, which I shall 
discuss presently, tb at TIafiz Ali Bahadur contested the election seriously with the hope 
of being successful thereat. 

(3) Sayecd Khan( P. W. 24) stated that he went to Hafiz Ali Bhadur’s house on 20th January, 
1967, at IO' 00 a. M. when he found Anwar Dehlvi still persuading Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
to stand for rhe election and Haflaz Ali Bahadur not agreeing to the same. This 
witness said that till about i6th, 17th or 18th January, 1967, Hafiz Ali Bahadur was 
ot 'he opinion that every scat against the Congress should be contested but he was 
not desirous of consteting himself. It Is, therefore, clear that even till 10-00 AM- 
on the 20th morning, Hafiz AH Bahadur had not agreed to stand for the election and 
Anwar Dehlvifinally succeeded in persuading him after discussion on the 20th morning 
to contest the election and asked him to reach the Court while he would go and fetch 
the respondent. Anwar Dehlvi then went to Mohd. Sayed Billali (P.W. 42) and then 
both or them went to the respondent’s shop. It looks rather improbable that every¬ 
thing could have been achieved between 10 and 10-15 a.m. on 20th January, 1967, 
that is, persuading of Hafiz AH Bahadur to contest the election, sending him to Court, 
going and picking up Mohd. Sayed Billali (P.W- 42) and then going to the respondent 
and asking him to pay Rs. 500/- to Hafiz Ali Bahadur and that too in the presence of 
strangers. I do nor suggest that in this limited period these things would have been 
physically impossible, but having regard to the fact that Anwar Dehlvi could not have 
known (1) that Billali (P.W. 42) would be avail able (2) that respondent would 
be at his shop and (3) that he would pay Rs. joo/- straightaway it would be more 
reasonable to expect that he would have taken Ali Bahadur with him rather than 
send him to court so that they did not lose track of each other. The reluctance on 
the part of Ali Bahadur also should have induced Anwar Dehlvi to take Ali Bahadur 
with him- 

(4) It is difficult to believe that Mohd. Sayeed Billali (P.W. 42), who had himself to deposit 

his security on the 20th January, 1967, not m the same election office but at a different 
place, namely, the office of the Corporation would forget about his own interest just 
to go and sign the nomination form of Hafiz Ali Bahadur. It is not disputed that the 
person signing the nomination form was not required to go to the election office. I, 
therefore, fail to understand why Mohd. Sayed Billali (P.W. 42) instead of merely 
signing the nomination form went all the way to and spent all the time in the election 
office tor that purpose. That again sounds to me as something highly improbable. 

(5) It is the petitioners’ own case that considerable pressure was being brought to bear 
on the respondent to agree to contest the election and the respondent all along expressed 
willingness to do so only if a dummy Muslim candidate was set up to neutralise the 
Muslim votes of the Congress. Jan Sangh people were keen to set up the respondent 
as their candidate and were anxiously in search for a dummy Muslim candidate. If 
the respondent was so strong in his attitude that he would not contest the election 
unless Jan Sangh found a dummy Muslim candidate, I fail to see why the respondent 
would agree to pay Rs. 500/- on account of security money to Hafiz Ali Bahadur and 
not tell the Jan Sungh to do so. 

It also appears from the various circumstances mentioned hereafter that Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
contested the election seriously and never acted as a dummy. Aziz Ahmad Marsi 
(P.W. 9) himself stated that he attended a public meeting addressed by Piafiz Ali 
.Bahadur when Hafiz Ali Bahadur asked the Muslims to vote for him. The number 
of votes obtained by Hafiz Ali Bahadur also provided a clue to this fact. Then there 
is a handbill. Exhibit R.W. 29/4, produced by the petitioners, wherein Ali Bahadur 
had published calculation showing how the votes were likely to be divided resulting 
in his success. It i,s also in evidence that Muslim students from Aligarh and Delhi 
College were doing work for Hafiz Ali Bahadur. This fact is borne out by the state¬ 
ments ol Abdul Aziz (P.W. 11), Multi Atiq-ul-Rehman (P.W. 16), Akhlaq Hussain 
(P.W. 22) and Chaman Lai Batra (PW. 46) Afsar Bijnori (P.W. 8) stated — 

"I had heard him (Hafiz Ali Bahadur) speaking and had attended his mcetigs. “His 
meetings were attended by thousands of persons”. 



Sfc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3881 


Naz, An sari (P.W. X8) also said— 

“Shri A)i Bahadur used to say in his speeches that his aim was twofold, namely, that he 
should be elected and Shri Sham Nath should be defeated. The same views were 
expressed by him in “Daur-a-Jadid”. 

A number of Muslim papers were actively supporting Hafiz Alt Bahadur. Naz Ansar 
(P.W. 18) in'er ali 1 stated— 

'‘Out of the jot ranis and newspa-eprs only Aljamiatwas opposed to ShriAli Bahadur,... 

The large majority of Muslim voters was in favour of Shri Ali Bahadur.” 

Sayced Khan (P.W. 24) said— 

“It -was the confirmed view of the Muslims that the Jan Sangh parly is anti-Muslim 
The Muslims were of the view that neither the Congress nor the Jan Sangh could 
protest Muslim interests and that some independent Muslims should be elected to 
Parliament.” 

Sbamim Ahmad (P.W. 29) also attended a meeting addressed by Hafiz Ali Bahadur. He 
stated— 

“I had attended one meeting only convened by ShriAli Bahadur. "It was on the 15th 
nr 16th February, Shri All Bahadur had appealed to the audience to cast votes in 
his favour. There was a large gathering.” 

It also appears from the evidence of Akhlaq Hussain (P.W. 22) that Hafiz Ali Bahadur 
commanded respect amongst the Muslims. This witness stated— 

“ft is correct that Muslim students used to do election work for Shri Ali Bahadur. It is 
correct that I had said in a meeting that the students had gone mad and were carry¬ 
ing the dead-body of the old man. It is correct that when I had said so, a demons¬ 
tration was staged against me and I had to seek the help of police for my safety.” 

That HaQz Ali Bahadur was held in esteem by the Muslima has also been supported 
b v Abdul Aziz (P.W-11).Mufti Atiq-ul-Rehman (P.W- 16 j also admitted that "there 
was great inclination in the Muslims to work for Shri Ali Bahadur”. The hand-bill 
Annexure'K’ and the poster Anncxurc ’M’ also indicate that he was strongly appealing 
to the electorate to voto for him. 

Against this story of the petitioners it looks extremely probable that the respondent would go¬ 
to the jail to receive his wife on the 20th January, 1967, the date she was due for his release. I 
find no reason to disbelieve Hawa Singh (R.W. 2; ard, as a mntterof fact, Mr. Rameshwar Dial 
made no criticism against the statement oftlus witness. If that evidence is acceptd. then it con¬ 
clusively proves that the respondent was out side the lail at about 9-45 A.M. on the 20th January, 
19G7, and at least till then the wife ofthe respondent had not been released. Hawa Singh (R.W. 
2) stated that she was released sometime between 10 and 10-30 A-M. Even if the respond ert left 
the jail a few minutes after 10 A.M. that is immediately after the release of his wife, withou 
attending to the transport arrangement for the other prisoners, even then it would be practi¬ 
cally impossible for the respondent to be at his shop as suggested by petitioners. 

I would now like to say a few words about some of the witnesses of the parties in this behalf. 
So far as Mohd. Sayed Billali (P. W- 42) is concerned, I have already said that us it is rather difficult 
to accept that leaving the filing of his own nomination paper and the deposit of his security, he 
would accompany the respondent to attend to a very minor job of only signing the 
nomination paper of Hafiz Ali Bahadur as a proposer. I have also said already that 1 find 
it difficult to accept that the respondent would have paid this gift or bribe of Rs. 500/- to Hafiz 
Ali Bahadur in the presence of uttar strangers like Sayeed Khan (P. W. 24), and Mohd. Sayed 
Billali (P. W. 42). The story put forth by these two witnesses also does not inspire confidence 
having regard to the improbabilities therein as discussed by me earlier. So far as H. S. Kaushal 
(P, W. 51) is concerned, I think the omission of deposit of the price of the voters’ list by him 
in the cash book (W. Exhibit R. W. 3/9) discredits the witness. Mr. Rameshwar Dial’s criticism 
that some of the counter-foils of the receipts corresponding to the entries in the cash book have 
not been produced, does not, in my opinion, carry much weight in view' of the fact that Muni Lai 
Jain (R. W. 3) had himself stated that he could be hundred per cent sure about the deposits only 
from the cash book. It is not impossible, therefore, that some of the counter-foils may have 
been misplaced but the fact remains that there is no entry in the cash book about any deposit 
by H. S. Kaushal or, as a matter of fact, about any deposit of Rs. 15/- by anyone on that date. 
There is, however, one entry of Rs. 9/- in the cash book on 20th January, 1967, relating to some¬ 
one else. Once the statement of Hawa Singh (R. W, 2) that the respondent was outside the 
jail on the 20th January, 1967, at 9-45 a.m. and that the respondent’s wife was released from 
custody between 10 and 10-30 a.m. is believed, it necessarily leads one to the conclusion that 
the story of Mohd. Sayed Billali (P. W. 42) about his meeting the respondent at his shop cannot 
be accepted. I am also inclined to accept the statement of the respondent that he remained in 
the precincts of the jail till about 11-30 a.m. on that day. I say so because that appears to me 
to be very probable. There is abundant evidence on the record to show that the responden 



3882 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


■was one of the main persons directing the anti-cow slaughter agitation. Hawa Singyh (R.W. 2) 
also stated that the respondent used to go to the j ail to see his wife and other anti-cow slaughter 
agitation prisoners and used to supply articles of food etc, to them. In that situation, the "only 
possible conclusion is that the respondent, who had gone to the jail at 9-45 a.M., would stay 
there till all the anti-cow slaughter agitation prisoners-239 in number-wcrc released. According 
to Hawa Sinth (R. W. 2) release of the prisoners started at about 10 A.M. The release of all 
the priosners would naturally take considerable lime. The story put forth by the respondent 
that he remained outside the jail premises till rr-30 A.M. and "thereafter went to Dewan Hall 
reaching there at about 12 noon or 12-15 P.M., therefore, sounds probable. If that be so, then 
it becomes difficult to accept the evidence of the petitioners’ witnesses who alleged to have seen 
the respondent in the election office between 11-00 a.m. and 12-00 noon. The evidence of 
Dr. I. C. D haw an (P. W. 28) that he saw the respondent at about 1-30 p.m. in the company 
of Hafiz Ali Bahadur outside Shri Rajinder Jain’s Court is not also wholly inconsistent with 
the story put forth by the respondent. It is not impossible that he may have seen both the 
respondent and Hafiz Ali Bahadur as both of them filed their nomination papers in the Court 
of Shri Rajinder Jain on January 20, 1957- I may, however, say that I accept the respondent’s 
version that he went to Shri Rajinder Jain’s Court at about 2-00 P.m. because his nomination 
papers were filed at 2-10 p.m. 

Having come to the conclusion that the respondent’s version about his going to the jail to 
receive his wife and other prisoners in connection with the anti-cow slaughter agitation and his 
being there till about 11-30 a.m. on 20th January, 1967, is correct, it really becomes unnecessary' 
to consider the evidence of witnesses like Khub Ram Jajoria (P. W. 23) and J. N. Vashisht (p, 
W. 32) because if the respondent’s version is correct then the whole fabric of the petitioners’ story 
that the respondent was approached in his shop and from there taken to the election office, falls 
to the ground. I am not prepared to go so fur, as suggested by Mr. Marwah, the learned 
counsel for the respondent, that the evidence of the witnesses who had contacts either with 
the Congress or with Sham Nath should be discarded on that ground alone. Mr. Marwah 
deaws my attention to Brij Mohan Singh v. Priva Bat Naraiti Sinha and others, A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 
282, and the observations that “it has to be noticed in this connection that this witness is President 
of Aurangabad Mandal Committee of the Congress and admittedly worked for the Congress before 
the election and did election campaign in Kunda in Aurangabad at the last General Elections 
for Priya Brat Babu who was the Congress candidate. It is not possible in these circumstances 
to place any reliance on his testimony’’ and suggests that decision of the Supreme Court is that 
in election cases the interest of a britness in a particular party should per se be a ground for 
rejection of their testimony, which helps such a party. I do not agree with that and hold that 
per se It cannot be a ground for rejection of their evidence. AH the circumstances have to be 
taken into consideration and a conclusion arrived at whether the witness concerned is telling 
the truth. In the circumstances of this case, however, I would not be willing to place implict 
faith on the evidence of J. N. Vashist (P. W. 32) and Khub Ram Jajoria (P. W. 23) when they 
say that they saw the respondent in the election office on January 20, 1967, J." N. Vashist 

(P. W. 32) had admittedly contacts with Sham Nath for a period of about nine to ten years and 
there is evidence to show that Khub Ram Jajoria (P. W. 23), apart from having contacts 
with the Congress, bore a grudge towards the respondent. 

Coming now to the next set of witnesses, namely, Jan Sangh approached and wanted a Muslim 
to stand for the Lok Sabha, I am of the view that the respondent is right when he says that he 
had not till the earlier part of the 20th day of January, 1967, made up his mind to contest 
the election. In these circumstances, therefore, it is impossible to hold that the respondent had 
anything to do with some Muslim being approached for being set up ns dummy candidates. 
In any case, as I have said earlier, the evidence on the record shows that Hafiz Ali Bahadur seri¬ 
ously contested the election with all hopes of success and was not a dummy candidate. In this 
view, it is sufficient to dispose of these witnesses by BHying that even if some Muslims had been 
approached by Jan Sangh, it could not have been in pursuance of an alleged scheme, as set up 
by the petitioners, to help the respondent. It is also in evidence that Amrit Lai Jindal had 
been announced as a Jan Sangh candidate and actually filed his nomination paper on January 19, 
1967, which he withdrew on January 23, 1967, and that evidence is also destructive of the 
petitioners’ case on this point. Dr. Ishwar Chandra Dhawan (P. W. 28) said that— 

“It is correct that Jan Sangh had set up Shri Amrit Lai Jindal as a candidate for the 
Lok Sabha on the 19th January. Jan Sangh had declared Shri Jindal as Its 
candidate about three weeks before 19th January, 1967.” 

The version of the respondent finds further support from the evidence of K. Narindra (R • 
W. 10), whose evidence I nave no reason to disbelieve, and the articles in the newspapers. Exhibit® 
R.W. 10/1 and R.W. 10/2. Moreover, Mohd. Sayed Billali (P. W. 42) spoke about the meeting 
on 10th January, 1967, but it is rather interesting that he admittedly did not mention about it 
to anyone. 

So far as the allegation regarding Hafiz Ali Bahadur and the respondent having the same 
polling agents is concerned, the evidence of Asif Ali (P. W. 36) and Mohd. Israil (P.W. 37) does 
not bear out the petitioners. 



Sdc. 3 (ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , L 96 K/BHADRA 9 , 1890 3SS3 


Mr. Rameshwar Dial., the learned counsel for the petitioners, says that Dhirat Ram Khosla, 
who supplied Rs. 500/- to Prabliat Kumar for depositing the security of the respondent, Prahlad 
Dutt, who accompanied the respondent from Dewan Hall to Shri Rajinder Jain's Court, Des 
Raj father of Prabliat Kumar, who filed in one of the nomination forms of the respondent, vaid 
Onkar Pershad, who, according to the evidence of the respondent, advised the later to stand for 
the election, had not been produced. The petitioners themselves having failed to prove the charge 
on their own evidence, it is unnecessary to consider this question in detail. The fact, however, 
remains that the respondent has produced sufficient evidence which is destructive of the story 
put forth by the petitioners in this behalf. 

In view of the above discussion, issues Nos. 10 and 11 arc decided against the petitioners 
and in favour of the respondent. 

That takes me to issues Nos. 1 and 2, which are as under:— 

“r. Whether calendars similar to Annexue ‘C’ to the petition were distributed on 5-2-1967 
in Phatak Telian under the direction, with the consent and in the presence of 
respondent No. 1 ? J 

2. In case issue No. 1 be found in favour of the petitioners, whether the distribution 
and display of the aforesaid calendars constitutes corrupt practice ? ” 

The charge aga nst the respondent, therefore, is that calendars similar to Annexure ‘C’ to the 
petition were distributed on 5th February, 1967, in Phatak Telian. The respondent has taken 
the extreme position that no calendar or any other handbill or poster was ever published. Apart 
from the question of publication, two main questions arise in connection with this Annexure— 

(1) Docs that constitute the use of, or appeal to, religious symbols for the furtherance 

of the prospects of the election of the respondent or for prejudicially affecting the 
election of any candidate ; and 

(2) does it amount to an appeal on the ground of religion, caste, or community in viola¬ 
tion of sub-section (3) of section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951. 

Before deciding these questions it is necessary to read] the relevant provisions of the said 
sub-section, which is as under:— 

“The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act :— 

* * # * 

(3) The appeal by candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent 

of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain from voting for any person on 
the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language or the use of, or 
appeal to religious symbols or “the use of, or appeal to, national symbols, such 
as the national flag or the national emblem, for the furtherance of the prospects 
of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of any 
candidate.” 

So far as the appeal on the ground of religion is concerned, the requisites of this sub-section 
appear to be that— 

(i) the appeal must be by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with 
the consent of the candidate or his election agent; 

iji) the appeal must be to vote for refrain from voting for any person on the ground 
of ‘his’ religion etc.; and 

(in) the appeal must be for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of the candi¬ 
date for or on whose behalf the appeal is made or for prejudicially affecting 
the election of any candidate 

The first question that requires determination, therefore, is as to what does the word 

‘‘his” refer to in the part of sub-section (3) which says K .for any person on 

the ground of his religion.” The perusal of the section shows that the said word “his” 

refers to any candidate in whose favour or against whom an appeal is made. In other words 
the pronoun “his” qualifies the words “any person ”. Mr Rameshwar Dial, the learned counsel 
for the petitioners, very fairly concedes that the word “his” cannot refer either to the voter or 
to the agent or to the election agent of the candidate. What he says is that if an appeal is made 
to the voters not to vote for a candidate then that appeal should be on the ground of religion 
etc. of that candidate, while if an appeal is made to vote for a candidate the appeal must be on 
the ground of religion etc. of that candidate. He further says that though the name of Hafiz 
Ali Bahadur does not appear in the Annexure but in substance and effect the appeal in the 
calendar is to the Muslim voters not to vote for the Congress and, therefore, the Congress candidate 
Sham Nath, but vote for Hafiz Ali Bahadur to further the prospects of success of the Jan Sangh 





3884 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


candidate by neutralising the Muslim votes of the Congress and since the appeal is on the ground 
of Muslim religion, the religion of Hafiz Ali Bahadur, the calendar offends section 123(3). In 
the alternative, he says that this is an appeal to the electorate not to vote for Sham Nath because 
he was a Hindu and anti-Muslim. The Annexure mentions three candidate.—Sham Kishore, 
Jan Sangh nominees for the Corporation, Ram Babu Maheshwari, Jan Sangh candidate tor the 
Metropolitan Council, and Ram Gopol respondent. At the bottom of the Annexure is an appeal 
to the voters to vote for the abovenamed three persons and make them successful. The Annexure, 
therefore, is an appeal to vote for these three candidates. On the construction of section 123(3) 
of the said Act it must, therefore, be held that the Annexure will offend the said section if the 
appeal is on the ground of religion etc. of these three candidates to vote for them or if the appeal 
is not to vote for Ali Bahadur on the ground of Ali Bahadurs religion. It is a possible view to 
take that if for instance there are three candidates, a Muslim, a Hindu and a Sikh and 
an appeal is made in the name of Muslim religion to vote for the Hindu candidate, thereby appeal¬ 
ing to the electors in the name of Muslim religion net to vote for the Muslim candidate, such an 
appeal may offend section 123(3). It is, however, not necessary to decide this question in 
this case because in the circumstances that obtain here that question will arise only if one can 
read into the calendar an appeal on the ground of Muslim religion not to vote for Ali Bahadur. 
But it is not possible to do so. It is the petitioners’ own case that the pictorial part of the Annexure 
which allegedly contains Kalimah, picture of Qaba Sharif, minaret of Masjid-e-Haram and picture 
of Quran Shariff, was intended to arouse the sentiments and feelings of Muslim voters. But it 
is difficult for me to read into the language of the appeal any implicit negative appeal in the name 
of Muslim religion not to vote for Ali Bahadur. In that view, it cannot be said that it was an 
appeal to the voters to vote for the three candidates named in Annexure ‘C’ on the ground of 
religion of these three persons or not to vote for Ali Bahadur on the ground of his religion. I may 
refer to two decisions in this behalf. In Lalsing v. Vallabhdas , A.I.R. 1967 Gujarat 62, it was 
held— 


“Now, the controversy in our Court centred round the proper interpretation of the 
pronoun ‘his’ used in the following expression ‘on the ground of his religion, race, 
caste, community or language’. A Division Bench of this Court has decided that 

the pronoun ‘hiB 1 is referable to the candidate and not to the voter. 

“However, Mr. Patwari contends that the pronoun ‘his’ is not only referable to a 
candidate but also to an agent, so that if an appeal is made by an agent persuading 
an electorate to vote in favour of a particular candidate on the ground that the agents 
religion, the action of the agent would come within the mischief of sub-section (3) 

of section 123. In our judgment, there is no merit in this submission. 

Therefore, in order that the sub-section may apply, the appeal must be to vote or 
refrain from voting; for any person on the ground of his religion. The pronoun 
‘his’ in the aforesaid phraseology is clearly referable to the person preceding the 
words ‘on the ground of’ and the person referred to is the person in whose favour 
the vote is to be cast or not to be cast.” 

Again, in Jagdev Singh Sidhanti v. Pratafi Slingh Daulta and others, A.I.R. 196J S.C. 183, 
it was observed— 

“The corrupt practice defined by clause (3) of section 123 Is committed when an 
appeal is made either to vote or refrain from voting on the ground of 
the candidate’s language. It is the appeal to the electorate on a ground personal 
to the candidate relating to his language which attracts the ban of section 100 read 
with section 123(3). Therefore it is only where “the electors are asked to vote 
or not to vote because of the particular language of the candidate that a corrupt 
pract ce may be deemed to be committed." 

That takes me to the other question whether or not the other part of sub-section (3) of 
section 123 has been violated by use of religious symbol. The pictorial part of Annexure ‘C’ 
according to the petitioners represents, as I have alradv mentioned, Allah in big letters, picture 
of Qaba Sharif, minaret from Masjid-e-Haram in Mecca, picture of Quran Sharif and a Kalimah 
from Quran Sharif on the lefthand top comer. So far as the word “Allah” is concerned, it 
connect be Baid to be a religious symbol. It is “the Arabic name used bv Muslims of all nationali¬ 
ties for the one true God, compounded of all the definite article, and ilah, a god. The same word 
is found in Hebrew and Aramaic as well as in ancient Arabic" (vide Encyclopaedia Britannica p. 
643). It is true tiiat Muslims generally use the word “Allah" for God but that is no more than 
the Arabic word for God and cannot be treated as a religious symbol in the sense laid down by 
their Lordships of the Supreme Court as discussed hereinafter. So far as the book, described 
as Quran Sharif by the petitioners, the minaret and the alleged picture of Qaba Sharif, are concern¬ 
ed the petitioners produced Shuukat Ali Fchmi (P.W.6), Mohd. Musthasan Farooqi (P.W.7), 
Asad Madrn (P, W. 12). Mufti Atiq-ul-Rehman (P.W, 16;. Mohd. Main (P.W. 47) and Mufti 
Zia-uI-Haq (P. W, 50). Shaukat Ali Fehmi (P. W. 6) said that he saw calendars like Annexure ‘C’ 
displayed in shops and pasted on walls in Turkman Gate locality; that the Kalimah, which is the 
basic creed of Muslim religion, is written on the top of the calendar; that the picture of the holy 
Quran is also depicted in the calendar; thHt a part of an Asyat from the holy Quran is written on 





Sec. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968/BHADRA 9. 1690 3885 


the one page of the picture of Quran Sharif; that the crescent and minaret of Qaba Shariff, the 
picture of Qaba Sharif and the rosary arc also depicted in the calendar; that the rosary is not an 
exclusive religious symbol of the Muslim religion; and that some of the voters had feit 
offended at the calendar depicting religious symbols. In cross-examination he admitted 
that the Muslim religion does not prescribe any religious symbols; and that "I cannot 
cite chapter and verse in support of my assertion that what is depicted in Annexure ‘C’ constitute 
religious symbols”. Mohd. Musthassan Farooqi (P.W.7) also spoke about having seen calendars 
like Annexure ‘C’ in Turkman Gate. He said that the calendar contains the Kalimah at the top; 
that Qaba, the holy Quran and the minaret of the mosque of Nabi are depicted on the 
calendar; that the picture of holy Quran shown in Annexure ‘C’ contains on one page an Ayyat 
trom the holy Quran; that the Kalimah is not mentioned in the holy Quran; that the Kalimah is 
the very basic creed of the Muslim religion; that the meaning of the Asyat from the Quran is 
“God helps those who oblige others”; that Allah is a proper moun and is an Arabic word which 
cannot be translated; that Allah is a religious symbol and everybody, including Hindus, may recite 
the name of Allah; that in the calendar, Annexure ‘C’, the only religious symbols are the wofd 
‘Allah’, the pictorial representations of the minaret, the Qaba Sharif, the holy Quran and the 
Kalimah Sharif; and that the Kalimah is not mentioned in the holy Quran but that is the very 
basic creed of the Muslim religion. Asad Madni (P. W. 12) also stated that in the calendar there 
are pictorial representations of the holy Quran, Khana-e-Qaba, the rosary and the crescent. In 
cross-examination he admitted that there is no pictorial representation of Gumbud-e-Khizra ; 
that pictorial representations are not the exact photographs of the objects sought to be represented; 
and that Mecca and Madina are two cities. According to this witness, the minaret in 
Annexure ‘C’ is the minaret of Khizra and not of Qaba Sharif. The witness was unable to give 
the difference between the minaret of Gumbad-c-Khizra and the minaret of Masjid-e-Hariiin 
in Mecca. He also stated that there is no Aayat in the holy Quran from which it could be in¬ 
ferred that the minaret and the crescent are religious symbols; and that “I cannot say whether the 
whole of the Kalimah is found in the holy Quran or not". The witness also said that “the picture of 
the book, depicted in the calendar, can be regarded as the picture of Quran Majid or of any other 
book”. 


Mufti Atip-ul-Rehman (P.W, 16) said that Annexure ‘C’ contains the pictorial representations 
of Khana-e-Qaba and the minaret of the mosque of Khana-e-Qaba; that the pictorial represen¬ 
tation of the book has been depicted in such a way as to give it the appearance of the holy Quran; 
that a person who does not believe in the Kalimah cannot be a Muslim; and that the crescent i» 
not of such an importance as other depictions in Annexure ‘C’. According to the witness the writ- 
i ng on the book means that God likes him who obliges anyone. The witness admitted in cross- 
examination that “it cannot be inferred from the mere fact that an Asyat is written on a book 
that the book is holy Quran”, Moulana Mohd. Mian (P.W. 47) said that at the top lefthand cor¬ 
ner of Annexure ‘C’ is ‘Kalimah-e-Toheed’ which is the foundation of Muslims and Islam; that 
in the centre is a picture of Qaba and the minaret marked ‘E’ is associated with Islam and sacred 
places and appears to be a part of the courtyard in Masjid-e-Haram. He admitted that in Islam 
there is no religious symbol in the form of a picture; that Islam has not determined any parti¬ 
cular shape or form of the minarets in mosques but the Muslims have developed one; that the 
ictures of minarets in different mosques may be different; that minarets do not find place in any 
religious book but arc recognised in Islamic culture; that there can be minarcta like the one ft 
Annexure ‘C’ in other than religious buildings; and that Quran Sharif does not contain any such. 
Kalimah as exists on the lefthand top corner of Annexure ‘C’. The witness also admitted that 
it is not open to anyone to make any change whatsoever in giving a quotation from Quran Sharif 
and that “the ‘Kalimah’ on the lefthand top in Annexure ‘C’ is not in Quran Sharif in this form 
in the sense that ‘La Elah Illillah’ exists in Quran Sharif and so does ‘Mohammed Rasul Allah’ 
but combination of both does not exist in Quran Sharif anywhere”. Speaking about the book 
and the writing thereon in Annexure ‘C’, the witness said— 

“There is no one such page in the holy Quran which contains only the writing aa con¬ 
tained on what 1 described as book, and marked ‘X’ in Annexure ‘C’. The word 
‘Almohsneen’ on book marked ‘X’ in Annexure ‘C’ mcam 'one who does good deeds’. 
A musalman will read a writing on the righthand page of the book marked ‘X’ in 
Annexure ‘C’ from the “bottom towards the top. Words ‘Vallah’ and ‘Yohibe’ are 
two separate words. ‘Vallah’ means God and ‘Yohibe’ means loves. It depends 
on the writer, somebody may write this very word so as to read from top towards 
bottom, while some may read in the way it is written here. The books on Quran 
Sharif are always written in horizontal lines to be read from right to left.” 

Mufti Zia-ul-Haq (P.W. 50) also admitted that Kalimah as such docs not exist in Quran 
Sharif and that nobody can make any change in the quotation from Quran Sharif and that mina¬ 
rets like the minaret in Annexure ‘C’ are also found in temples. 

The respondent produced Shiv Dutt (R.W. 8), who claimed to have studied a large number 
of books on Islam , and according to him, none of the representation in Annexure ‘C’ constituted 
religious symbol. In the petition the petitioners’ case regarding Annexure ‘C’ is that “the ealend 



3H86 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


depicts Mecca, Medina and certain quotations (Aayats) from the holy Quran with the crescent 
and the words in Arabic ‘Allah’ and ‘Laid Illah Mohammad Rasool Allah* and a rosary”. Mr. 
Marwah, the learned counsel for the respondent, says that the allegations in the petition arc not 
what Is sought to be said at the bar. Notwithstanding the alleged infirmity in the allegations in 
the petition, I would deal with each of the items, and, before I do so, like to say a few words about 
what constitutes a religious symbol. In Jagdev Singh Sidhanti’s case their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court considered the question whether ‘Om’ flag could be regarded as a religious symbol. 
The question was examined in two branches— 

(0 Whether the word 'Om’ has any special religious significance; and 
(if) whether the use of ‘Om’ on a flag or pennant makes it a religious symbol. 

Their Lordships of the Supreme Court said that the word ‘Om’ was respected by the Hindus 
generally and trad a special significance in the Hindu scriptures. “But it is difficult to regard 
‘Om’ which is a preliminary to an incantation or to religious books, as having religious significance. 
‘Om* it may be admitted is regarded as having high spiritual or mystical efficacy; it is used at the 
commencement of the recitations of religious prayers. But the attribute of spiritual significance 
will not necessarily impart to its use on a flag the character of a religious symbol in the context in 
which the expression religious symbol occurs in the section with which we are concerned. A 
symbol stands for or represents something material or abstract in order to be a religious symbol, 
there must be a visible representation of a thing or concept Which is religious,” 

The tesr laid down by their Lordships of the Supreme Court, therefore, is that before any¬ 
thing can be termed as a religious symbol, it must represent something material or abstract and 
there must be a visible representation of a thing or concept which is religious. 

Again, in Ramanbhai v. Debhi A\itkumar, A.I.R. 1965, S.C. 669, the question before their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court was whether ‘Dhurva Star’ was a religious symbol. While 
holding that ‘Dhurva Star’ had no religious significance and its use in the manner made would 
not convert that use into use of a religious symbol, their Lordships of the Supreme Court ob¬ 
served ;— 

“It is impossible to say that any particular object, bird, or animal could be regarded as a 
‘symbol of the Hindu religion’. The basic concept of Hindu religion is that the sup¬ 
remo being is in every ‘inanimate’ object, plant, creature or person, i.e., in the entire 
creation and that the entire creation is within the Supreme Being. If, therefore, 
according to the fundamental concept of Hindu religion, God or Divinity is the relity 
or the substance of everything that exists, it would not be possible to say that any 
particular object is a symbol of the Hindu religion. It is true that various deities in 
the Hindu pantheon are associated with some specific objects, birds or animals. Thus, 
for example, Shiva is associated with a trident and a coiled cobra round his neck; 
Vishnu is associated with the cobra ‘Shesha’ on which he reclines as upon a bed; 
the eagle is associated with Vishnu as his vehicle; the goddess Lakshimi is associated 
with lotus upon which she stands and so on and so forth. Docb it mean then that if a 
person uses a lotus or a cobra or a tride “as his election symbol he will be appealing to 
the religious sentiments of the people ? The answer must bo clearly In the negative.” 

In Shubncuh Deogram v. Ram Narain Prasad , A-I-R- i960 S.C. 148, the Jharkhan Party issued 
and distributed leaflets in verse wherein an appeal was made by a cock for the votes of the electo¬ 
rate. It was held that the leaflet contained an appeal to the voters on the ground of religion and 
that the appellant was guilty of a corrupt practice falling within the purview of sub-section 3 of 
section 123. Dealing with this case Mudholkar, J. said— 

“The majority of the judges held that this leaflet contained an appeal to the voters on the 
ground of religion and that the appellant was guilty of a corrupt practice falling within 
the purview of sub-section (3) of section 123 of the Act. The conclusion of this Court 
was based not upon the mere fact of the use of the symbol of cock but it was based upon 
the nature of the appeal for votes made by the cock. In the leaflet the cock had said 
among other things: ‘Give me chara in the shape of vote I am victorious. Do not 
forget me, otherwise I tell ye sons of men will suffer eternal miseries’. According 
to this Court this, in substance, amounted to sayig that it would please to dieties if 
they did so because the cock in its “turn was meant for sacrifice to the dieties and 
it would displease them if they did not. The case is thus distinguishable from the 
one before us.” 

In Ramanbhai’s case , their Lordships of the Supreme Court further held that the election literature 
should neither be judged strictly nor taken literally and the Courts ought not to read more in such 
literature than what appears to its face. From these decisions it emerges that symbol is a visible 
representation of a thing or concept which is religious. The basic characteristic of the symbol 
is its figurative quality and the second characteristic may be described as its perceptibility. The 
symbol must have its innate power which implies a power inherent within it that distinguishes it 
from the mere sign which is impotant in itself. Yet another important characteristics of the 
symbol is its acceptability and implies that the symbol is socially rooted and socially supported. 
{•aid* Religious Symbols by Paul Tillich). 



Sac. 3 (ii )1 THF GAZETfE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3S87 


Under section 123(3) of the said Act, the appeal on the ground of religion etc. has a narrower 
scope than appeal by use of symbols as it must be an appeal on the basis of the religion of any 
person for or against whom the appeal is made. There is, however, no such limitation regarding 
the use of religious symbols. Further, it appears to me that before a person can be condemned 
on the ground of use of a religious symbol, it must be established that the object was, in fact, 
a religious symbol understood in the context of the same being socially rooted and socially sup¬ 
ported. I have, therefore, necessarily to decide whether till or any of the objects in the pictorial 
part of Annexutc ‘C’ arc religious symbols. Mr. Mciwah says that the calendar is nothing more 
than a work of art. I have already said that word “Allah” cloes not represent a religious symbol. 
So far as the minuter is concerned, 1 have it from the evidence of the petitioners themselves that 
such like minarets may be found on other buildings. There ir, no pietoiuil representation in the 
calendar which can show even remotely that this minaret is of Masjic'-e-Harr.m. It must. ihcicfoj c, 
be held that the minaret in. Amicxnre ‘C’ is not a religious symbol. About the book, Mufti Atiq-ul- 
Eebman (P.W. j 6 ) said that from the mere fact that an Atynt is written on it it could not be said 
that the book is holy Quran. Similarly, Asad Madni (PAY. 12) said that it could be regarded as 
a picture of Quran Mai id or of any other book. It is, therefore, not possible to say that the 
book is a religious symbol, Aboul the part marked ‘F’ also, having regard to the evidence and the 
description given by the witness of ‘Qaba Sharif’ it is difficult for me to say rhat it is the pictorial 
representation of ‘Qaba Sharif’. Mohd. Mian (P.W. 47) said lhat covering on ‘Qaba’ is always 
of black colour but in the picture it is blue. Again, even the door of entry into the ‘Qaba Sharif’ 
does not appear in the picture. It is difficult, therefore, to hold ihut a voter will look at the picture 
as that of‘Qaba Sharif’. According to ihr Dictionary of Islam by Hughes, 1935 Edition, Kalimoh 
on the lefthand top corner means— 

“ ‘There is no deity but God: Muhammad is ihe Apostle of God’. The whole sentence as 
“h stands does not occur in the Quran; but the first part of the creed, ‘There is no 
deity but God, ‘is in the Surutu Muhammad, or XLVIIth chapter of the Quran, 
verse 21; and the second part, ‘Muhammad is the Apostle of God’, is in the Suratu 
‘i-Fath, or XLVIIIth Chapter, verse 29. The first sentence is known as the Nafy 
and the Isbat, or the rejection (there is no deity) and the affirmation (but God), and 
is recited often as a religious office by' the Sufi faquirs. 

The whole creed frequently occurs in the Traditions, and is an oft-recurring clause in the 
daily prayer. 

This Kalimah occupies a similar place in the Muslim religion to the ‘Shcma’ ‘Israil’ of the 
Hebrew Bible in the Jews’ religion. The Shema (‘Hear’) is the fourth verse of Dout.vi: 
‘Hear, O Israil, Jehovah our Elohim is one Jehovah’; which is frequently used in 

daily morning and evening service of the Jews. From the Traditions.it 

appears that a something similar to this well known symbol of the Muslim creed, was 
iu use amongst the ancient Arabians, and is still recited by Muslims, amongst whom 
it is known as the Talbiyah: 


The recital of the Kalimah is the first of the five foundations or pillars “of practice, and, 
according to the Fawaidu ’sh-Shariah, every Muslim should recite it aloud at least 
once in his lifetime, and he should understand its meaning.” 

From this narration, it appears that this is an accepted concept in the Muslim religion. It 
also is a visible representation and, therefore, amounts to a visible representation of a concept 
and is a religious symbol. Since the use of one religious symbol is as offensive as use of more, 
the question whether or not ihe other symbols arc also religious symbols loses its significance. 

That takes me to the evidence as to the distribution of this calendar and the connection of 
the respondent therewith. The evidence on this may also be classified as under:—■ 

(1) Witnesses who saw these calendars displayed at the shops in Turkman Gate area; 

(2) Witnesses who received the calendar; 

(3) Witnesses who saw the calendar being distributed but did not receive it; and 

(4) Witnesses who saw the calendar stored in Sham Kishore’s house. 

It may be pointed out that the case of the respondent is that on 5th February, 1967, when the 
calendar is alleged to have been distributed, he was away to Shamli and adjoining areas in connec¬ 
tion with the election campaign of T. C. Dheman (R.W. 75), who was a Jan Sangh candidate for 
Lok Sabha. Although the issue is as to whether or not the calendar, Annexure ‘C’, was dis¬ 
tributed on 5th February, 1967, under the direction, with the consent and in the presence of the 
respondent, Mr. Marwah points out that none of the petitioners’ witnesses gave the precise date, 
5th February, 1967, on which they saw the distribution of tne calendar. Under the first head the 
witnesses arc Afsar Bijnori (P.W. 8), Shaukat Ali Faluni (P-W. 6), Akhlaq Hussain (P.W. 22), 
Mohd. Mustshassan Farooqi (P.W. 7), Muima Lai Gupta (P.W. 5), Rajinder Kishore Aggarwa 






3888 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9 . 1390 [Part II- 

(P-W. 31), A. M. Zutshi (P.W. 45), Asad Madni (P.W. 12), Sham Nath (P.W. 56) and Zia-ui-Haq 
(P.W. 50). It may be pointed out that even if it is pre aimed that calendars similar to Annexure 
O’ were displayed at various shops as alleged by the petitioners, the evidence would have no value 
unless the complicity of the respondent with their being displayed is established. Under the 
second group, namely, those who received the calendar, the witnesses are Munni carpenter (P.W. 
17)1 Abdul Majid (P.W. 33), Mohd, Din (P.W. 34), Qayam-ud-Din (P.W. 35) and Abdul Majid 
(P.W. 49), Mr. Marwah's criticism about these witnesses is that— 

(1) as mentioned already, none of them say that the calendar was distributed on 5th Feb¬ 
ruary, 1967, as stated in the issue; 

(2) the most prominent in the calendar is the name of Sham Kishore and, therefore! 
this is destructive of the petitioners’ case that Ram Gopal respondent had any complicity 
in its distribution, if at all it was distributed; 

(3) Exhibit R.W. 3/7, the list of polling stations, shows that Phatak Telian was in polling _ 
booths Nos. 214 and 215 and having regard to an extremely small number of Muslim 
votes in this area it is difficult to visualise that the respondent would Indulge in such 
distribution and waste his energies thereon; 

(4) in any case, in Phatak Telian area there were two Muslim candidates contesting the 
election and the respondent could not have directed his efforts in that area; and ' 

(5) Ram Gopal respondent being an independent candidate, he could not have been a 
party to the publication of the calendar wherein he is shown as the candidate of Jon 
Sangh, 


Mr. Marwah has drawn my attention to certain evidence indicating that Ram Gopal respondent 
was all through anxious to retain his independence and keep away from any alignment with Jan 
Sangh. Lastly, Mr. Marwah draws my attention to the statements of Rameshwar Nath [R.W. 23), 
Girdhari Lai Dhaila (R.W. 7), Gur Charan (R.W. 9), Anwar Dehlvi (R.W. 29), Rattan Lai (R.W. 11), 
Moti Ram (R.W. 12), T. C. Dheman (R.W. 15) and Sat Paul Sharma (R.W. 27) in support of his 
plea that on that particular day the respondent was touring in Shamii area and was not In Delhi. 
Munni (P.W. 17) has a tea stall in Phatak Telian and said mat he saw one Shahbudin distributing 
calendars like Annexure *C’ amongst the shopkeepers. He claimed to have received one such 
calendar about 14 days before the date of the polling. In cross-examination the witness said that 
he got the calendar on a day which was Sunday. This witness does not connect the respondent, 
in any manner, with the distribution. As a matter of fact, he was unable to give the names of the 


mm by Kam Hubu. He hrst said that he could not give me names ot me persons wno accompany 
Ram Babu at the time of the distribution of the calendars but later stated that the respondent 
was one of those persons. In cross-examination he said he had received the calendar before 
February 3,1967. If that be so, then no significance can be attached to the statement of this witness 
as tlie charge against the respondent is mat calendars were distributed on February 5, 1967. 
Mohd. Din (P.W. 34) resides in Phatak Telian. He alleged that 14 or 13 days before the polling 
14 or 15 persons went to his shop and gave a calendar to him and the respondent waa one of such 
persons. To more or lees similar effect is the evidence of Qayam-ud-Din (P.W. 35) and Abdul 
Majid (P.W. 49). Apart from me details of me statements, I would like to say that it is very easy 
in these matters to produce witnesses like this and it is very difficult to condemn a person and hold 
him guilty of a corrupt practice on oral evidence of this type. I can quite visualise the difficulty 
of the petitioners in producing more cogent evidence of the respondent s complicity, but difficulty 
cannot take the place of proof. Apart from that, there is one more difficulty in the petitioners 
way, inherent in the very nature of the allegation. I cannot accept that in such small areas, wto 
the number of Muslim voter was so insignificant, the respondent would himself accompany the 
party and go from shop to shop distributing me calendars at 8-00 a.m. when the shops may not 
have even opened. Moreover, it appears that these witnesses arc interested in the Congress. 
It may be pointed out that 5th February, 1967, was Sunday and it is improbable mat me respondent 
will resort to such a campaign of distributing calendars to shopkeepers on a closed day at 8 o clocK 
in the morning. 

This takes me to the third category of witnesses for which there is the solitary evidence of 
Krishan Das Gupta (P.W. 4). This witness is a Congress worker and admittedly used to go on 
his rounds to the locality in connection with the Congress work. This witness was unab c o give 
the name of any shopkeeper, or any person, to whom the calendar was given A person wno mia 
been touring the locality in connection with the election work on behalf of the Congress couia 
normally have mentioned some name in mat area to whom the calendar was given. 

Munna Lai Gupta (P.W. 5) is the witness under the fourth category who saw cal *" d “ a 
stored in Sham Kishore’s house and it is unnecessary to discuss his evidence because he does not 
connect the respondent with the distribution. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3889 


That takes me to the evidence of the respondent that he was out of Delhi on February 5, 1967 
The respondent sought to rely on a Visitors’ Book maintained by Agnivesh Ayurvcd Bhavan 
and the entries made therein by several persons. Entry Exhibit R.W. 9/2 is the one alleged to have 
been made by the respondent in Shambli on 5th February 1967. Reliance is also placed on a 
handbill. Exhibit RAX-', p/i, which is alleged to have been distributed in Shamli and ncarabout 
areas announcing the visit of the respondent on that day. These documents were not relied 
upon by the respondent. The case of the respondent is that he had no knowledge about the hand¬ 
bill and he did not remember his having made the entry Exhibit RAX', 9/2 in the Visitor’s Book. 
He said that he was reminded of his visit on 5th February, 1967, to Shamli by one Jagdev Singh 
Sidhanti on 31st December, 1967, when the respondent approached him for obtaining a copy of 
the judgment in his case as one of the points arising in both the cases was common. The res¬ 
pondent said that it was during that talk that Sidhanti told him that he was in Shamli on 5th Feb¬ 
ruary, 1967, and, therefore, should not worry about the charge of distribution of any literature 
on that day. Even if that be so, the respondent took no steps to obtain permission of the Court till 
28th February, 1968, when this book was produced and, therefore, on the ground of delay alone 
I am not inclined to entertain this evidence. Similarly, there is no dear proof of the fact that the 
respondent did not know about the handbill Exhibit R.W. 9/1 till 28th February, 1968, and, 
therefore, could not ask for permission to rely on or produce the document earlier. In spite of 
the rejection of these two documents, I am convinced that the respondent’s evidence does establish 
that he was away to Shamli on February 5, 1967. It is not necessary to discuss in detail the evi¬ 
dence of various witnesses mentioned above and it is sufficient to say that nothing has been brought 
out justifying the rejection of their testimony. Witnesses from various adjoining localities stated 
that the respondent was, on 5th February, 1967, in Kairan, Shamli, Oon and other adjoining places, 
induding Thana Bhavan. Mr. Rameshwar Dial’s criticism of these witnesses may be noted. He 
says that T. C. Dheman (R.W. 15) said— 

“There is no pucca road from Kairana to Oon except via Shamli. From Shamli to Oon 
there is a pucca road.” 

Mr. Rameshwar Dial draws my attention to the road map which shows that there is a pucca road 
from Kairana to Oon while part of the road from Kairana to Oon via Shamli is Kacha. Similarly, 
Sat Paul Sharma (R.W. 27), an agriculturist from Oon, who spoke about the respondent’s visit to 
Oon on 5th February, 1967, and his addressing a public meeting there, stated— 

“There is no pucca road from Oon to Kairana; and part of it is Kacha. The entire road 
from Shamli to Oon is pucca. I have been seeing this pucca road for the last 5 or 
6 years". 

Relying on the 1965 Road Map, Mr. Rameshwar Dial suggests that these witnesses did not appear 
to have even visited the various places mentioned by them. Mr. Rameshwar Dial also points out 
that the respondent in his evidence had introduced an improvement regarding the purchase of 
petrol by Guru Charan (R.W. 9) on their way from Delhi to Shamli. Mr. Rameshwar Dial also says 
that Guru Charan (R.W. 9) had wrongly stated that for going from Kairana to Thana Bhavan 
it was not necessary to pass through Shamli. 

These minor matters do no induce me to discard the respondent's evidence on this point. 
May be pucca road was made after 1965 and Sat Paul (R.W. 27) may be making a slight mistake 
whenhesaid that he had been seeing pucca road for 5 or 6 years. Even the J965RoadMap 
shows that only a very small part of the road is Kacha. Various persons from different villages 
have come and spoken about the respondent’s visit there and his having addressed public meet¬ 
ings there. Mr. Rameshwar Dial points out that all these witnesses are Arya Samajists and, 
therefore, interested in the respondent, Moti Ram (R.W. 12), however, denied that he had any¬ 
thing to do with Arya Samaj. The position regarding this aspect of the case is that if any one 
of the witnesses, who came from the vicinity of Shamli, is believed, the respondent’s Btory stands 
proved. Having gone through their evidence, I am inclined to accept the respondent’s version 
that on 5th February, 1967, he was out ofDelhi. The allegation of the petitioners as to the distri¬ 
bution of Anncxure ‘C* must, therefore, fail on two grounds— 

(1) They have failed to prove that the respondent was, In any way, connected with the 
publication of this calendar, on the strength of their evidence; and 

(2) the respondent has been able to establish that he was out of Delhi on February 5, 
I967- 

The next corrupt practice alleged is the distribution in the area of Chhota Chippiwara of 
handbills similar to Annexure ‘D ’ in a public meeting dated nth February, 1967, in the presence 
of the respondent. This allegation is the subject-matter of issues Nos. 3 and 4, which are a* 
under : — 

‘‘3. Whether handbills similar to Annexure ‘D’ to the petition were distributed in a meet¬ 
ing in Chhota Chippiwara on 11th February, 1967, in the presence of respondent 
No. 1 ? 



3890 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 196 S/BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


4. If issue No. 3 be found in favour of the petitioners, whether the distribution ot the 
aforesaid handbills constitutes corrupt practice” ? 


The respondent's case is that there was a meeting in Chhota Chippiwara from 4 to 6 p m. 
and the respondent addressed the samefrom 5 - 3 ° P-M- to 6-00 P-M- Accordingto the petitioners, 
however, the meeting was held between 8-00 p.m. and to P.M. On the face ot the handbill it 
appears— „ „ ,, 

“Circulated by Prof. Pradhan, 

Genl. Secy.” 


The handbill emphasises the sanctity of cow and condemns the Congress for being in favour 
of cow slaughter, Mr. Rameshwar Dial concedes that if this handbill be construed to mean 
only an appeal not to vote for the Congress because they arc in favour of cow slaughter then the 
haadbill will not offend section 123 of the Act. He, however, suggests that this was an appeal 
notto vote for ShamNath, a person belonging to the Congress Party, whichfavours cow slaughter. 

I will deal with this aspect of the matter after dealing with the evidence on the subject. The 
evidence of the distribution consists of Sunder Singh (P-W- 40), Mukli Nath Rahi (P. W. 41) 
Dwarka Nath (p.W. 54 ) and Sham Nath (P.W. 56)—Sunder Singh (P.W. 40) said that the res¬ 
pondent addressed tne said meeting and the handbill was distributed thereat. The witness 
did not get the handbill but he only saw it being distributed. Mr. Marwah points out that 
Suader Singh was an interested witness because Hem Chand petitioner was a friend of one 
Mr. Cllhijlani, the President of Pure products Cooperative Store, of which the witness was the 
Secretary. That apart, the statement ofthe witness does not, in any way, connectthe respondent. 
If the respondent is addressing a meeting and some handbills arc distributed, assuming that they 
were distributed, it is not impossible that that may have been distributed on behalf of the candi¬ 
dates other than the respondent without even the latter’s knowledge. From the evidence of 
the petitioners, even if u be accepted, it docs not appear that the respondent spent any time 
amongst the crowd and if he went straight to the dias it is quite likely he may not know what 
was oeing distributed to the audience. This witness docs not say that the respondent made 
any mention of this nandbillin the speech. He was not able to give the name of any other person ■ 
present in the meeting except that of Ramesh Jain. The witness stated that he attended this 
meeting probaoly on 10th or nth of February, 1967. He was, however, unable to say whether 
tills meeting took place after the meeting in Gandhi Ground addressed by Prime Minister, 
though tie claimed to have attended the Gandhi Ground meeting as well. Iris established from 
the evidence of Sham Nath (P. W. 56) that the Gandhi Gro und meeting addressed by the Prime 
Minister took place on 6th February, 1967. The time of the meeting has also not been given 
by this witness. Mukh Nath Rahi (p. W- 41) also claimed to have attended the meeting and 
seen the iiicribution of pamphlets by workers of Jan Sangh wearing saffron caps. The witness 
fuctner said that the respondent in his speech referred to the pamphlet and said that the number 
of cows slaughtered had been given therein. It is significant that Sunder Singh (P.W. 40) did 
not say that the pamphlets were being distributed by persons wearing saffron caps, and, if that 
were so, I see no reason why the other witnesses should not have mentioned that fact which was 
ofimportance in counectingjan Sangh with the distribution. He also admitted thathe was workr 
ing for Snam Nath. He stayed in the meeting only for is minutes. The witness was not able 
to give the date ol the meeting but only said that it was 9 or 10 day B before the polling. 
He was also unable to say whether this meeting took place before or after the Gandhi Ground 
meeting although he claimed to have attended the meeting in Gandhi Ground. lie was not 
able togivecither the dates of the Congress meetings in his locality or even the names of the persons 
who spoke thereat. He also did not give the ti m c of the meeting. Dwarka Nath (P.W. 54) 
said that on the day the respondent was going to address the meeting this witness met him near 
Bar Shahbula. When he (the respondent ) alighted from a taxi one of the companions of the 
respondent was carrying a bundle of pamphlets and that he witness asked for a copy of the pam¬ 
phlet which the respondent gave him. The pamphlet was identified by the witness as one 
similarto Annexe re D’. This witness was working for about 8 to 10 years with SriNath, a relation 
of Sham Nath. He did not calk about this pamphlet to Sham Nath. He, however, said that 
Kanahya Lai and Patch Singh met him at a betel shop next morning and snatched the pamphlet 
from him- The story put forth by this witness is full of improbabilities. For instance—— 

(1) there could have been no occasion, when the respondent met the witness, to abruptly 

ask for a copy of the pamphlet; " 

(2) it is improbable that the respondent would be carrying such like pamphlets with him 

when going to address a meeting; and 

(3) the way the witness described the snatching of the pamphlet by Kanahya Lftl and Fateh 

Singh is unbelievable. 11 is not very likefy that early morning he would go to a betel 

shop carrying the pamphlet with him. 


So far as Sham Nath (P.W. 56) is concerned, he said that a pamphlet like Annexure ‘D’ was 
brought to him in the first week of February,i967, by Krishan Khamia, a Congress nominee for 
the Corporation seat That would be before nth February, 1967, and, therefore, cannot have 
any connection with the distribution, The respondent examined Kishan I, a ] (R' W 16) and 
Jambu Pershad (R.W. 26) besides his own statement. These witnesses stated that the meeting 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 389! 


was held between 4-00 to 6-00 p.m. and the respondent addressed the meeting at about 5-30 P.At¬ 
tn view of the fact that I am not inclined to place much reliance on the petitioners’ evidence, it is 
unnecessary todiscuss the respondent’s evidence in this behalf. 

So faras the contents of Annexure ‘D’ arc concerned, it is unnecessary to decide whether th c 
same offend section 123 of the Act, but I may just briefly mention that thc handbill is nothing 
more than describing the cow as sacred and condemning the Congress for being in favour of cow 
slaughter. Read as a whole the handbill amounts to nothing more than saying that thc people 
should not vote for the Congress and that constitutes only a criticism of the Congress’ pro-cow 
slaughter policy. 

In view of thc above discussion, issues Nos. 3 and 4 arc decided against the petitioners and 
in favour of the respondent. 

That takes me to Anncxurc ‘E’, Exhibit P. W. 52/1, which is thc subject-matter of issues Nos 
5,6 and7, which arc as under;-— 

"f - Whether handbills similar to Anncxure ‘E’ were distributed in a meeting held in Katra 
Khushal Rai on i°th February, 1967, in the presence and with the consent of respon¬ 
dent No. 1 ? 

6. In case issue No. 5 be decided in favour of the petitioners, whether the distribution of 

handbills similar ‘0 Anncxurc ‘E’constitutes corrupt practice ? 

7. Whether respondent No. 1 addressed the meeting referred to in issue No. 5 in the sam e 

strain as thc contents of the handbill Anncxurc ‘E’ to the petitioner ? if so, what is 
thc effect thereof?’* 

This handbill says that one can earn “Pun” or sin by the correct use ot his vote. I fail to see 
how can it be even remotely suggested to offend section 123 of the Act, All that the pamphlet 
says is that if one exercises the vote properly, he is likely to earn “Pun”. Regarding its distribu¬ 
tion, the allegation of the Petitioners is thatit was distributed in a public meeting in Katra 
Khushal Rai on February 10, to67, at about 8-00 p.m. and the respondent addressed that meeting 
and referred to the handbill. The allegation is that the handbill was lying on the dais, was taken 
from there and then distributed at thc meeting. The respondent’s case, however, is that he did 
not address any meeting in KttraKhushalRai on 10th February , 1967, as he was stuck at the meet¬ 
ing m Tama Masjid area. Thc respondents’ case further is that one Om Prakash son of Dr. 
Girdhari LalDhalla(R.W. 7) had spoken against the respondent and the respondent was itching 
to give a reply to thc allegations, on toth February, 1967, there was a meeting by Jan Sangb in 
Ja m a Masjid area and thc respondent took that opportunity to reply to Om PrakaBh’s allegations 
and was, therefore, speaking there till about 11-00 p.m. The petitioner's evidence consists ofKha- 
iraii Lal(P.W. 52), Ram Chandcr Tihansoli (P.W. 53), Rati Ram (P-W. 55) and Sham Nath 
(P.W. 56). Khairati Lai (P.W. 52) was present in the meeting for sometime and saw the handbills 
stocked at the dais, and the workers distributing the same. According to this witness, the res¬ 
pondent referred to the handbill as the gist of his speech. This witness, however, left the meeting 
before the respondent concluded his speech. According to this witness, the respondent came to 
the meeting after the witness had reached there at about 9-45 or 10-00 P-M. This is thc only 
meeting alleged to have been attended bv this witness and that also as a matter of chance. Accord¬ 
ing to the evidence of Sham Nath (P.W. 56), Khairati Lai (P.W. used to accompany him in 
Sham Nath’s rounds during the elections. He was also the proposer of Ram Charon Aggarwa], 
He would naturally, therefore, be interested in Sham Nath and the petitioners’ success, I may- 
say again that it is difficult for me to accept that the respondent, righting election to the Lok Sabha, 
would permit offending pamphlets to be distributed open''- in public meetings and thereby create 
evidence against himself. It may he Dossihle that some times even very experienced persorB may 
commit suchlike mistakes, but, having regard to the nature of the evidence led by the petitioners, 

I am convinced that the respondent was not a party to the distribution of Annexure ‘E’ as well. 
K. NirindrafR.W. 10) appeared as a witness, and, as I have already said I see no-reason to dis¬ 
believe him. ' He also addressed the Jama Masjid meeting on that day and left for Kat r e Khushal 
Rai to address the meeting there at about 10-00 P.M- leaving the respondent in the J a m a Masjid 
meeting. He then addressed the Katra Khushal Rai meeting till its conclusion and, according to 
this witness, the respondent never addressed that meeting. So far as the evidence of Ram Chancier 
lihansoli (P.W. yg'j is concerned, he is alleged to have attended a meeting 8 or 9 days before the 
polling which was addressed by the respondent and in that meeting the respondent said that those 
who did not make Proper use of their votes were sinners. This witness did not see the handbill 
being taken from the dais a.id saw only the distribution thereof. He is also a-chance witness as 
he was going to sec his brother there and incidentally stopped at the meeting. He stated that 
he tnew the respondent because he had purchased a shawl from his Kinari Bazar shop. Dwarka 
Nath (p.W. sU, however, said that the respondent never had a shop in Kinari Ba*ar but his shop 
was in Moti Brear. The witness is admittedly oro-congrcss. Rari Ram (P-W. 55) also saw only 
1 he distribution of the handbills like Annexure‘E’but did not see their being taken from thc dais. 
This witneis’s stuiement. also does not show that the respondent was, in any way, connected 
therewith. As I have said earlier, even if some literature is distributed, it doesnot necessarily 
lead to the conclusion that it was done with the complicity of the respondent. The witness was 



3892 TH-E GAZETTE OP INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


mittcdly a member of the Congress and an office-bearer of District Congress Committee. He 
as apolling agent of Sham Nath and this was the only meeting alleged to have been attended b j 
im. Sham Nath (p.W- 56) merely said that a handbill like Annexute'H’ was shown to him- He, 
owever, stated that he had occasions to pass once or twice from the meetings of Jan Sangh ad¬ 
dressed by the respondent and in none of those meetings he saw any handbill or pamphlet being 
distributed. The respondent also stated that he did not attend this meeting. Moreover, once 
the evidence of K. Narindra(R.W. 10) is accepted, then the respondent’s evidence has necessarily 
to bo accepted on this controversy. There are several other witnesses produced by the respon¬ 
dent to prove that the respondent did not attend this meeting but it is unnecessary to refer to their 
testimony in detail. 

In view of the above, issue Nos. 5, 6 and 7 are decided against the petitioners. 

I will now deal with Annexure‘F’aposter, and Annexure‘G’ ( a handbill. These are the 
subject matter of issues Nos. 8 and 9, which are as under :— 

“8. Whether respondent No. 1 got pasted posters similar to Annexure ‘F’ to the petition, 
and got distributed handbills similar to Annexure ‘G’ to the petition on 18th February, 
1967 at different places in Muslim areas of Chandni Chowk Constituency as alleged m 
the petition ? 

9. Whether the above poster and handbill contained statements of facts which were false 
and which respondent No. 1 believed to be false or did not believe to be true in relation 
to the personal character and conduct of Slrri Sham Nath as alleged in the petition, and 
as such respondent No. i, was guilty of corrupt practice?” 

The petitioners’ evidence regarding the publication of these Annexures consists of Mohd. 
Laiq (P.W. 3), Abdul Ghaffar (P.W. 15), Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20), A.M. Zutshi (P.W. 45), 
Mond. Musthassan Farooqi (P.W. 7), Asfar Bijnori (P.W. 8), Aziz Ahmad Warn (P.W, 9) 
Abdul Aziz (P.W. u), Naz Ansari(P.W. 18), Shamim Ahmad (P.W. 29), Abdul Wahid (P.W. 
30), Chaman Lai Batra (P.W. 46), Shanti Parkash (P.W. 13), Kartar Singh (P.W. 14) and Sham 
Nath (P. W. 56), Mohd. Laiq (P.W. 3) claimed to be the printer of Annexures ‘F’ and ‘G’, He 
stated that one thousand copies each of ‘F’ and ‘G’ were printed at Khvvaja Press on 18th February, 
1967, which press is on lease with the witness. According to this witness, the respondent came and 
assured him that the pamphlet and the poster were of the respondent and that he would be responsi¬ 
ble for the printing thereof. The said Annexures purport to have been issued by one Arsbad Hus¬ 
sain, 1391, Pahari Imli, Delhi-6, and they contain three questions addressed to Sham Nath. The 
petitioners summoned Arshad Hussain but the report was that there was no such pers on at that 
address. According to Mohd. Laiq (P.W. 3), the manuscript of these An nexures was given to him 
by one Rashid Hussain, Galigraphiat. However, the original manuscript has not been produced. 
The witness admitted that he issued no receipt to Rashid Hussain, the Caligraphist, for payment. 
It is difficult to place reliance on this type of evidence so far as the complicity of the respondent goes] 
Abdul Ghaffar (l’.W. 15) claimed to be the distributor of the handbill Annexure 'G‘. He said that 
the handbill was given to him by Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20) and he got payment of Rs. 50/- 
from the respondent one day after the polling. This sum of Ra. 50/- the witness claimed to have 
shared with his three other companions—Khalid Mohd, Shamim Siddiqi (P.W. iq), Mohd. 
Idris (P.W. 26) and Mohd. Bilal (P.W. 27). That sHowb that the distribution work must have been 
done by those four persons together yet Khalid Mohd. Shamim Siddiqi (P.W. 19), Mohd. Idris 
(P.W. 26), and Mohd. Bilal (P.W. 27) did not speak about having done any distribution work in 
connection with these Annexures. The evidence of this witness is Baid to be corroborated by A.M. 
Zutshi (P.W. 45) who saw the handbill being distributed on the 17th or 18th of February, 1967. 
This witness (P.W. 15) stated that he got payment from the respondent from Chjra Kharia. There 
is abundant evidence that the respondent had neither any election office in Chira Khana nor he was 
residing there. From the evidence of the respondent I am convinced that the respondent was resid¬ 
ing in his Kriahan Nagar House. That evidence is corroborated by the fact that he had a telephone 
installed in his residence in Kristian Nagar for nearly 3 to 3-1/2 years. The witness further stated 
that he got payment after he showed Ali Bahadur’s chit to tne respondent. It is not the case of the 
witness that the chit was handed over to the respondent and yet that chit had not been produced. 
Abdul Aziz (P.W. 11), Mohd. Musthassan Farooqi (P.W. 7) and Baliar Barni (P.W. 48) are alleged 
to have seen handbills like Annexure ‘G’ two or three days before the polling. That throws a 
very dark cloud on the testimony of the witnesses. The documents were, according to the petition¬ 
er’s own evidence, printed on 18th February, 1967, and distributed on that very day. Mohd. 
Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20) claimed to be the paster of the poster Annexure ‘F’. This witness said 
that he was pasting such like posters for a number of candidates, including Bahar Barni. He 
further stated that he used to go to the respondent's house in Chira Khana and receive payment. 

I have already held that the respondent had nei ther his election office nor his residence in the Chira 
Khana House. That casts a great doubt on the testimony of the witness. Moreover, in the peti¬ 
tion it is alleged that Annexures ‘F’ and ‘G’ were pasted and/or distributed at 5.00 p.m., while, 
according to Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20), he got the poster from Rashid Hussain, Caiigraphist, 
at sunset. If that be so, it is difficult to accept that it could have been distributed at 5.00 p.m. 

These Annexures appeal to the voters to vote for Hafiz Ali Bahadur. I have already held 
that Hafiz AliBahadu was seri u’y ' outestint?. the election. That factor alone discredit^ the 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 . 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3893 


evidence of the petitioners as it is impossible to accept that the respondent would be a party to 
the distribution or pasting of the election literature supporting one of his rival candidates. The 
evidence of the other witnesses does not, in any way, connect the respondent and, therefore, it is 
unnecessary to discuss the same. It is also unnecessary , therefore, to pronounce on the contention 
of Mr. Marwuh that the statements of facts contained in these Annexurcs arc correct. 

In view of the above, issues Nos. 8 and 9 arc also decided against the petitioners. 

That then takes me to Annexurcs ‘J’ and ‘M\ They are the subject-matter of issues Nos. 
12, 13, 18 and 19, which are as under :— 

“12. Whether respondent No. 1 got distributed handbills similar to Annexure ‘J’ to the 
petition in the areas of Matia Mahal and Suiwalan on 10th February, 1967 as alleged 
in the petition ? 

13. In case issue No. 12 be found in favour of the petitioners, whether the distribution of 
handbills similar to Annexure ‘J’ constitutes corrupt practice ? 

“18. Whether respondent No. 1 arranged for the pasting and display of posters similar to 
Annexure ‘M’ in Urdu Bazar on 7th February, 1967 and in Bailimaran, Farash Khana, 
Jama Masjid, Matia Mahal, Suiwalan, Pahari Bhojla and Phatak Tclian on 7th and 8th 
February, 1967 as alleged in the petition? 

19. In case issue No. 18 be decided in favour of the petitioners, whether the pasting and 
display of posters similar to Annexure ‘M’ constitutes corrupt practice ?” 

Annexure T is a handbill alleged to have been distributed on 10th February, 1967, in the 
areas of Matia Mahal and Suiwalan, while Annexure ‘M’ is a poster alleged to have been pasted and 
displayed on 7th and 8th February, 1967, in the areas of Bailimaran, Farash Khana, Jama Masjid 
and some other localities. The subject-matter of both these Annexurcs is the same and purport to 
have been issued by Ali Bahadur. They highlight the difficulties that public, and particularly.the 
Muslim public, had to undergo during the Congress regime. At the end it is said that if the voters 
elected Ali Bahadur he would direct his attention in Parliament on the points mentioned in the pa¬ 
mphlet. Even if it be held that the handbill, Annexure ‘J’. constitutes an appeal in the name of reli¬ 
gion of a candidate, it is an appeal on behalf of AH Bahadur and, therefore, cannot offend section 
123 of the Act so far as the respondent is concerned. I am not prepared to accept that the respond¬ 
ent, in any way, conspired in the display and distribution of these pamphlets and posters which 
make an appeal to vote for Ali Bahadur. Mr, Rameshwar Dial says that since this was distributed 
with the complicity of the respondent it must be held to be an appeal to the voters made by the 
respondent not to vote for Sham Nath, who was the Congress nominee as the Congress had brought 
miseries to the Muslims. It is difficult for me to read it in that way. As I have already said, there 
is no appeal in this handbill on behalf of the respondent to vote for ihc respondent, or not to vote 
for Sham Nath. This handbill does not, in my opinion, offend section 123 of the Act. Again, 
before discussing the evidence about its distribution, I may say that it is unimaginable that the res¬ 
pondent would be a party in the distribution of such literature which appeals to the voters to vote 
for the respondent’s rival candidate, and I would, therefore, examine the evidence in the light of 
this observation. 

The witnesses about Annexure ‘J’ are. Abdul Ghaffar (P.W 7 . 15), Mohd. Idris (P.W. 26), 
Mohd. Bilal (P.W. 27), Afsar Biinori (P.W'. 8), Abdul Wahid (P.W. 30), Chaman Lai Batra (P.W. 
46) and Sham Nath (P.W. 56), while regarding Annexure ‘M’ the witnesses are Mohd. Kalim Siddi- 
qi (P.W. 20), Anis Ahmad’(P.W. 21), Afsar Bijnori (P.W. 8), Aziz Ahmad WBrsi (P.W. 9), Chaman 
Lai Batra (P.W, 46) and Sham Nath (P.W, 56). Abdul Ghaffar (P.W. 15) claimed to have distri¬ 
buted several Annexures on behalf of Haliz Ali Bahadur but he did not refer specifically to Annexure 
‘J’. The evidence of this witness, therefore, is of no avail to the petitioners. I have had already 
an occasion to discuss his evidence in connection with Annexure ‘G’. Mohd. Idris (P.W. 26) 
claimed to have distributed handbills like Annexure ‘J’ which he got from Gaffar Khan. He docs 
not refer to the respondent at all or connect him with the distribution. Moreover, this witness is 
alleged to have distributed handbills two or three days before the polling. Similarly, Mohd. 
Bilal (P.W. 27) does not connect the respondent. It is, therefore, not necessary to consider in 
detail the evidence of these witnesses. Similarly, Afsar Bijnori (P.W. 8), Chaman Lei Batra 
(P.W. 46) and Sham Nath (P.W. 5 61 alleged to have only seen the handbill but that does not connect 
the respondent with its distribution. It must, therefore, be held that the petitioners have failed to 
prove that the respondent had anything to do with the distribution thereof. Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi 
(P.W. 20) said that the respondent gave the poster to him. According to this witness, the respondent 
was living in Gali Matawali, Chira Khana; which fact is not correct. Moreover, I do not under¬ 
stand why the respondent would give the poster to be displayed in favour of his rival candidate. 
Anis Ahmad (P.W. 21) docs not connect the respondent nor do the other witnesses of the petitioners 
mentioned above, who merely saw the poster being displayed. 

Accordingly, issues Nos. 12, 13, t8 and 19 are also decided against the petitioners, 




3894 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


The next allegition of the petitioners is regarding the distribution of Annexure 'K’, which 
again purports to have been issued by Hafiz Ali. Bahadur. This Annexurc if; the subject-matter of 
issues Nos. 14 and T5 which are as under ;— 

“14. Whether respondent No. 1 got distributed handbills similar to Annexure ‘K’ in Mohal- 
la Rohadgaran on 15th February, 1967 as alleged in the petition ? 

15. In case issue No. 44 be decided in favour of the petitioners, whether the distribution of 
the handbills similar to Annexuic ‘K’ constitutes corrupt practice?” 

Evidence regarding this consists of Khwaja Zaki Ahmad (P.W. to), who does not connect 
the respondent with the handbill at all, Azhar Hussain (P,W. 44), Abdul Ghaflar 

(P.W. 15), Khalid Mohd. Shamim Siddiqi (P.W. 19), Mohd. Bile 1 (P.W. 27), Afzar Bijnori (P.W. 
8), Shamim Ahmad (P.W. 29), Abdul Wahid (P.W. 30), and Chnnan I.al Batra (P.W. 46). The 
lest named four witnesses spoke only about the fact of their ha ng seen handbills like Annexure 
‘K’. If, therefore, complicity of the respondent is otherwise no: established, the evidence of 
these witnesses will have no value. Regarding the distribution, Ahdul Ghaflar (P.W. 15), Khalidi 
Mohd. Shamim Siddiqi (P.W. T9) and Mohd. Bilal (P.W. 27) do 1.01 connect the respondent with 
the distribution. The only witness who connects the respondent with the distribution of the hand¬ 
bill is Azhar Hussain (P.W. 44). I must frankly confess that this witness did not impress me at all. 
He said that he used to work during the day in Union Printing Press, at night in Khanna Litbo Press, 
and in spare time used to secure orders lor printing in the name of Rnhi Printing Agents. ITe said , 
that he knows Ram Gopal respondent and met him 10 to ts days before the polling date at the house 
of Hafiz Ali Bahadur; that Hafiz Ali Bahadur had called" him to his house and wanted him to do 
some printing work; that he insisted on payment in advance; and that the respondent then said that 
the payment would be made in advance. According to this witness, the responded gave him the 
pamphlet for printing and although the printing charges came to Ks. 40/-, the respondent paid him 
Rs. too/- and said that the balance could be adjusted against future work. I cannot accept that the 
respondent would have paid him Rs. too/- when the charges for the work entrusted came to Rs. 40/-, 
pariiculurly when they were practically strangers to each other. The witness also said that he got 
the handbill printed and purchased the paper himself. No cash memo, regarding the purchase of the 
paper was produced nor could the witness give r he name of the shop from which he purchased the 
paper. That apart, the whole story disclosed by the witness appears to be most, unbelievable. 
Once the evidence of Azhar Hussain (P.W. 44) is disbelieved, the other witnesses lose all importance 
as none of them connect the respondent. It is, therefore, unnecessary to decide whether Annexure 
‘K’ offends section 123 of die Act or not. 

Issues Nos. 14 and 15 are, therefore, decided against the petitioners. 

Then remains only Annexure ‘L’, which is a poster purporting to have been issued by 
Hafiz Ali Bahadur. This Annexure is the subject-matter of issues Nos. 16 and 17, which are as 
under;— 

“16. Whether respondent No. 1 got pasted posters similar to Annexure ‘L’ in Matia Mahal on 
2nd February, tq67 as alleged in the petition ? 

"17. In case issue No. 16 be decided in favour of the petitioners, whether the pasting of 
the above posters constitutes corrupt practice ?” 

The evidence about this poster also consists of Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20), who claims 
to have pasted this poster and received Rs. 25/- from the respondent. The other witnesses are 
either expert witnesses as to the meanings of certain expressions appearing in the poster or witness es 
who saw the poster displayed. Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20) is the same person, whose evi¬ 
dence I discussed when dealing with Annexure ‘F’ and ‘G\ This witness also received Rs. 25/- 
from the respondent in his Chira Khana House, though, as I have said earlier, the respondent was 
not residing there. Again, the remarks that I have made regarding the distribution of other hand¬ 
bills or display of posters supporting Ali Bahadur and the alleged complicity of the respondent 
therewith apply with equal force to this poster as well, which is an appeal to the voters to vote for 
Ali Bahadur. 

Once other comment which T would like to make is that a finding of corrupt practice by 
distribution or display of pamohlets and posters is difficult to be based upon such witnesses as it is 
not difficult to procure witnesses in this behalf. The elected candidate represent the will of the 
Majority of the electorate in his area and the election can be set aside on the ground of corrupt 
practices only if the petitioner proves beyond reasonable doubt that the respondent had been guilty 
thereof. This principle, however, cannot be carried very far as a person who gets elected by fraud 
or corrupt practice docs not acquire any right to the scat claimed by him. I do not feel inclined to 
place implicit faith on the evidence of the witnesses like Mohd. Kalim Siddiqi (P.W. 20) and Abdul 
Ghaflar (P.W. 15) who claimed to have distributed or pasted the election literature, to such an 
extent, that I should base a finding of corrupt practices against the respondent. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3895 


I may point out one more fact that originally the petition was filed against the respondent and 
Ilafiz Ali Bahadur but Ilafiz Ali Bahadur having died during the pendency of the petition, ia nama 
was dropped. 

There is still an application to be dealt with which the petitioners made, being O.M. No. 
605 of 1968, under Order 16 and section 151 Civil Procedure Code, for summoning some additional 
evidence. A reply to this application was filed but at no stage, not even till the conclusion of the 
arguments, did the learned counsel for the petitioners press for this appli ottion. This application 
i s also, therefore dismissed. 

In the result, the petition fails and is dismissed with costs. I (is the counsel’s fee at Rs.1500. 

The decision in this petition be communicated by the Registrar to the Election Commission 
and to the Speaker of the Lok Sabha as provided in Bection 103 of the Representation of People 
Act, 1951. 

March 22. 1968. 


[No. 82/1 of 67 /DL/ 68 J 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 12 th July 1968 

S-O- 2893. —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Sliri Ramji Lai, Village 
and Post Office Sanwled via Singhana, District Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, a contesting candidate for 
election to the House of the People from Jhunjhunu constituent y, h, f led to lodge any account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation ot tne People Act, 1951, and the 
Rules made thereunder.; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, the Election 
Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justification for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission hereby 
declares the said Shri Ramji Lai to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of 
either House of Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 


[No. RJ-HP/ 3 / 67 ( 5 )-] 


New Delhi, the 1 Oth July 1968 

S.O. 2894. —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shrimati Sumitra C/o Mali 
Ram, Tola Pttjario Ka Mohalla, Chirawa (Rajasthan), a contesting candidate tor election to the 
House of the People from jhunjhunu constituency, has failed to lodge an account oi her election 
expenses in the manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules 
made thcrcundei; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, the Election 
Commission is further satisfied that she has no good reason or justification for the failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission hereby 
declares the said Shrimati Sumitra to be disqualified for being choscr, and for being, a member 
of either House c f Parliament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for 
a period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. RJ-HP/3/67C6).] 


New Delhi, the 5th August LQK« 

S.O. 2895 . —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Maharaj Kumar Vishwa 
nath Singh, Naya Bhojpur (Dumraon), District Shahabad (Bihar) a contesting candidate 
for election to the House of the People from C.hapra constituency, has failed to lodge an 
account of his election expenses in the manner required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate, the 
Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason of justification for the 
failure. 



3896 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Commission 
hereby declares the said Maharaj Kumar Vishwanath Singh to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the date of 
this order. 


[No. BR-HP/6/67(44).] 
By Order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 

S.O. 2896. —Whereas the Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (37 of 1967), 
declared on the 16th January, 1968, the Mizo National Front to be an unlawful associa¬ 
tion; 

And whereas the Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of Section 5 of the said Act, constituted on the 12th February, 1968, the 
Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal, consisting of Shrl Justice P. K. Goswaml, Judge 
of the High Court of Assam and Nagaland; 

And whereas the Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of Section 4 of the said Act, referred the issue of the declaration of the Mizo 
National Front as an unlawful association to the said Tribunal on the 15th February, 1968, 
for the purpose of adjudicating whether or not there was sufficient cause for making the 
aforesaid declaration; 

And whereas the said Tribunal, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) 
of section 4 of the said Act, made an Order on the 11th July, 1968; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of sub-section (4) of section 4 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby publishes the said Order of the said Tribunal, namely;— 

ORDER 

BEFORE THE UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES (PREVENTION) TRIBUNAL AT GAUHATI 

Reference under Section 4 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (Act 37 
of 1967). 

In re: Mizo National Front 


Present: 

The Hon'ble Mr. Justice P. K. Goswami, Tribunal. 

For the Mizo National Front—None appears. 

For the Government of India—Mr. G. K. Talukdar, Sr, Government Advocate. 

Date of hearing—The 10th July, 1968. 

Date of Order—The 11th July, 1968. 

ORDER 

This is a reference to this Tribunal under Section 4(1) of the Unlawful Activities 
(Prevention) Act, 1967 (Act 37 of 1967), made by the Central Government, referring the 
Notification No. S.O. 311 dated New Delhi, the 16th January, 1968 for the purpose of 
adjudication whether or not there was sufficient cause for declaring the Mizo National 
Front, hereinafter referred to as 'the Front’, as an unlawful association. 

2. This notification was received by the Tribunal on 15th February, 1968, which is 
within thirty days from the date of the publication of the notification. The Tribunal 
issued notice to the Front and the same was served and made known to the Front by 
various modes as required under the Law. I am satisfied that the notice has been pro¬ 
perly served and circulated and the dale of service for the present purpose may be held 

to be 30th March, 1968, and 31st March and 1st April, 1968 when the same was 

announced over the Radio in the Mizo Programme and lastly on 5th May, 1968, the date 

of the intimation of the service report by the Deputy Commissioner, Mizo District. The 




Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3897 


matter was fixed for hearing on 8 th July, 1968 after giving due notice to the parties, 
The Government of India is represented by the Senior Government Advocate, who has 
presented an affidavit sworn by the Deputy Secretary, Government of Assam, Home and 
Political Department, who is conversant with the facts and circumstances of the case. 
None appears to oppose this reference. Neither has any cause been shown. 

3. The procedure in this reference is as laid down under section 9 of the Unlawful 
Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, hereinafter referred to as 'the Act’, and that is the 
procedure provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure for investigation of claims. This 
Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purpose of section 195 and 
Chapter XXXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure and any proceeding before it shall be 
deemed to be a judicial proceeding. Under .Section 5(6) of the Act, the Tribunal shall 
have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 
1908 while trying a suit in respect of the matters enumerated in that section and one of 
the matters is the reception of evidence on affidavits under section 5(6)(c). Under Rule 3 
of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Rules, 1963, made under the Act, the Tribunal 
shall subject to the provisions of sub-rule ( 2 ), follow as far as practicable, the rules of 
evidence laid down m the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (I of 1872). Under Rule 5, the 
reference made to the Tribunal has to be accompanied by a copy of the notification and 
all the facts on which the grounds specified in the said notification are based, subject to 
a right given under this rule to the Central Government not to disclose any fact to the 
Tribunal which that Government considers against the public interest to disclose. The 
notification dated 16th January, 1968 is in the following terms: 

"S.O. 311,—Whereas the Mizo National Front (hereinafter referred to as the Front) — 

(i) has openly declared as its objective the formation of an independent Mizoram 

State comprising of the Mizo District of Assam and the adjacent Mizo 
and Kuki-inhabited areas of Manipur and Tripura; 

(ii) has raised an armed force (hereinafter referred to as the armed force) and 

set up an organisation to achieve this objective and to bring about the 
secession of the said district and areas from the Union of India; and 

(iii) is, in furtherance of its objective, employing the armed force in attacking the 
Security Civil Forces, the Government, and the citizens in Mizo and 
Cachar Districts of Assam, Manipur and Tripura, and indulging in acts 
of arson, looting and intimidation against the civilian population; And 
whereas the Central Government is of opinion that for the reasons 
aforesaid, the Front is an unlawful association; 

And whereas the Central Government is further of opinion that because of the 
repeated acts of violence and attacks on security forces and on civilian 
population by the armed force, it is necessary to declare the Front to be 
unlawful with immediate effect. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 
of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (37 of 1967), the Central 
Government hereby declares the Mizo National Front to be an unlawful 
association and in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub¬ 
section (3) of that section directs that this notification shall, subject to any 
order that may be made under section 4 of the said Act, have effect from 
the date of its publication in the Official Gazette." 

4. As noticed earlier, this notification containing grounds for declaring the Front as an 
unlawful association, is accompanied by an enumeration of the material facts on which 
the grounds are sought to be based. An affidavit has been made by the Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of Assam (Home and Political Department) who is authorised by the 
Government of Tndia in that behalf, swearing to the correctness of the facts and informa¬ 
tions which appear in the documents accompanying the reference, (n addition to this, 
the learned Senior Government Advocate relies upon a letter dated 22nd April, 1968. 
addressed by Sri I.alchungnunga, self styled Deputy Commissioner of the underground 
Government of Mizoram, to the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Aijal, which goes to 
support the contention of the Central Government that the objects of the Front are as 
alleged by it. 

5 . I have perused all the papers accompanying the reference and I find from 
Annexure ‘I’ that 42 persons mentioned therein made a declaration of independence com¬ 
pletely seceding from India and declaring their resolve to overthrow the Indian Adminis¬ 
tration. The material portion of the declaration is couched in the following words : 

"We, the undermentioned, in a meeting, on behalf of the Mizo people^ before the 
Light of the world, with a view to accomplish our objective and in the name 
of the people of our country and by their consent, verily, on this first day 



3898 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 890 [Part H— 


of March, of the year of our Lord, 1966, declare that Mizoram by virtue 
of her rightful claim, should be independent. All their political relations 
with the Government of India have now been shaken off; and the authority 
over war matters, making of peace, relations with foreign countries, trade 
and commerce with foreign countries and all others which an independent 
State has.” 

In view of this resolution, it appears, the Government of India had to take necessary 
steps under the Defence of India Rules, 1962 and on 6th March, 1966 passed orders 
directing that Rule 32 of the Defence of India Rules shall apply to the organisation 
described as Mizo National Front. It also appears that in pursuance of their resolve to 
secede from India and become an independent State, they have established an under¬ 
ground Government by the name of Mizoram and were actually running parallel Govern¬ 
ment Departments and using all kinds of oppressive measures and tactics in order to 
compel obedience from the loyal Mizos. They have established connection with foreign 
Governments inimically disposed towards India and are having their volunteers trained 
there with the avowed object of fighting the security forces of the Government of India 
which arc engaged in maintenance of law and order in this part of the country. Even 
arms have been imported from the neighbouring foreign countries. With all this resolve 
and activity, the Mizo National Front, which actually started as a political party in 
September, I960, took il to their heads on the night of February 28/ March I, 1966 
to employ their armed volunteers to simultaneously raid Government offices, Telephone 
exchanges, Police stations, Treasuries and Security Forces Posts at a number of places in 
the district. They succeeded in disrupting the Silchar-Aijal Road and the telephone 
connections at Aijnl. They also attacked the Aijal Treasury and decamped with cash 
amounting to Rs. 10,000 besides arms and ammunition. At Lungleh, about 500—1000 
volunteers raided the Treasury, looted cash worth over 12 lakhs and killed one Sentry 
and two other ranks and injured three. The raiders also over-ran the Border Security 
Post at Tuugleh and disrupted the telephone communications. The rebels also attacked 
the residence of the Local Subdivisional Officer and kidnapped him. The Subdivisional 
Officer was taken to Pakistan and kept as a hostage. Of these hostages. 41 of the 
kidnapped Government, servants were released in the middle of May. The Security 
Forces at Ohawngte, Ohamphai and Tuiimng were also attacked. On the morning of 
March 1, a post of Assam Rifles at Chinking was attacked. Some Police Stations and 
Post Offices in the interior were also raided. The raiders took charge of the Police Station 
at Kolosib, and the Silchar-Aijal Road was disrupted bv the blowing ur> of two culverts, 
dislocating one bridge and creating road blocks. 2 rifles were looted from Demagiri 
Police Station on March 3. A number of persons belonging to the Assam Police arid 
Government Intelligence Posts at Demagiri were cultured. On March, 7, Sri Lanunmawia, 
the Vice President of the Front, sent a letter to the Deputv Commissioner, Aijal, blaming 
the Government for nrovoking the violent movement and offering to hold peace talks. 
Tbe Deputy Commissioner sternly reflected this suggestion and asked the Front volunteers 
to surrender to the Government. This. howcve r , was not complied with. The Army 
moved into the district on March 3. in aid of the Civil authority. It cleared the Silchar- 
Aiial road and relieved Kolosib on March 4. and Alia! town on March, 5. Lungleh and 
t 'hcmnhni were relieved on March, 13 and Demagiri on March, 17. Mopping up opera¬ 
tions were taken up and the rebels were put 1o flight. Ever since the rebels have been 
indulging in sniping, raids and ambushes at various places besides other terrorist and 
secessionist activities, and there has been no change in their stand. As already noticed, 
the Front's evil set up is functioning under the title of Government of Mizoram. There 
are '’arious departments functioning and self styled Chief Commissioner, Commandcr-fn- 
Chief nrc operating. There is also a Nalional Reflnement Court. The Front. Volunteer 
Com- of about 8000 was converted into Mizo National Armv. which is modelled on the 
British pattern from Ihe rank of a private to the Commnnder-in-Cbicf. A full-fledged 
Armv Headquarter of the Front National Army has been constituted. There is also a 
Front Parliament which met at Make in the last week of May 1966 and decided to 
introduce Us own currency by Stamping the Indian currency with the Front Seal Tt was 
declared that Indian currency notes without the Front seal would not be regarded as legal 
tender and all villagers would be required to produce the Indian currency notes before the 
Front authorities for affixing the seal. Tt was stated that any person using Indian currency 
without the Front seal could not be considered loval to th- Mizoram independence 
movement. It also appears th-U there has been close liaison of the Front rebels with the 
Naga undergrounds, Paites and Kukis of Manipur. 

6 In Anncxure ‘TT 5 accompanying the reference, the illegal activities kave bee* 
rnimicrnied and it shows that there has boon regular attack and counter attack and arms, 
detonators and various documents showing the designs of the Front, have been _seized- 
The activities of the Front have escalated to some parts of Tripura, Cochar District and 
Manipur Since the rebellion in March. 1966, there were more than 300 encounters with 
the Security Forces and 271 robberies and raids in villages by the volunteers, more than 



Sa;. 3(ii)j IHE OA/1 I 11 Ol INDIA: AUGUM 31, 1908/iU-lAURA ), 1690 3 O 99 


300 cases of kidnapping by them and 83 murders committed by the men organised by this 
From. Alt these tacts which are disclosed in the documents accompanying trie reference, 
most of which have been sworn lo in the aitiaavii of the Deputy Secretary, clearly estabjisn 
the existence of the grounds on winch the order in the notification fins been based. As 
has been rightly contended by the learned Senior Government Advocate, the stand, which 
appears in tnese documents, lias not been disowned in tne letter which has been addressed 
by the self-styled Deputy Commissioner to the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Aijal. 

7. Apart from the affidavit, the Tribunal can also take judicitd notice of the 
hostilities going on in that area under Section 57(11} of the Indian Evidence Act, which 
is applicable lor adjudicating a reference of this nature, and may be set out: 

‘‘57. The Court shall take judicial notice of the following facts :— 

•It * -¥ 

(11) The commencement, continuance and termination of hostilities between the 
Government of India and any other State or body of persons: 

■if * 

In this connection it may be appropriate to refer lo a decision in the matter ol a Petilion 
of Right, repotted in 19l5(3) Kings Bench. Division, 649 at page 638, where the following 
passage occurs: 

“The Court will take judicial notice dial this country is in a slate of war, that 
its coasts have been attacked by Zeppelins and other aircraft, and, furthei, 
that certain places on (he east coast have been subjected to attack by the 
enemy's fleet. In these circumstances the naval and military authorities have 
to a very great extent exercised the rights they now claim.’' 

There is another decision reported in 1916(1) King’s Bench Division, 268 at pages 274-75, 
and tnc following passage is apposite : 

“1 think, however, that the Courts are entitled to take judicial notice ol certain 
notorious facts which may be summarized thus: There are a large number 
of German subjects in this country. This war is not being carried on by 
naval and n.m.ary forces only. Reports, rumours, intrigues play a large 
part, methods of communication with the enemy have been entirely altered 
and largely used. 1 need only refer to wireless telegraphy, signalling by 
lights, and the employment on a scale hitherto unknown of carrier pigeons. 
Spying has become the hall-mark of German “kultur”. In these circums¬ 
tances a German civilian in this country may be a danger in promoting 
unrest, suspicion, doubts of victory, in communicating intelligence, in 
assisting in the movements of submarines and Zeppelins—a far greater danger 
indeed, than a German soldier or sailor.” 

I am, therefore, satisfied that the facts which have been disclosed in the documents which 
are placed before me, and sworn to in the affidavit, in absence of any evidence or sugges¬ 
tion to the contrary can be said to be prima facie established, and so, we have got to 
examine whether the activity attributed there lo the Front is unlawful activity within the 
meaning of Section 2(f) of the Act and whether the Mizo National Front is an unlawful 
association within the meaning of section 2(g) of the said Act. 

8 . Section 2(0 and 2(g) may be read : 

“2(f)—“Unlawful activity”, in relation to an individual or association, means any 
action taken by such individual or association (whether by committing an 
act or by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representa¬ 
tion or otherwise),— 

(i) which is intended, or supports any claim, to bring about, on any ground 

whatsoever, the cession of a part of the territory of India or the secession 
of a part of the territory of India Rom the Union, or which incites any 
individual or group of individuals to bring about such cessation or 
secession; 

(ii) which disclaims, questions, disrupts or is intended to disrupt the sovereignty 

and territoral integrity of India; 

2 (g)—“unlawful association” means any associalion which has for its object any 
unlawful activity, or which encourages or aids persons to undertake any 
unlawful activity, or of which the members undertake such activity." 

It is abundantly dear from the materials disclosed in this proceeding that the Mizo National 
Front has for its object complete secession from the Indian Union and for disrupting the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Union of which the Mizo district and the other 




3900 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 3], 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


areas arc part and parcel. Their entire claim is an independent Mizoram outside the Indian 
Union. They have not only been asserting their claim but with tragic zeal accompanied by 
varous illegal activities with foreign aid arc trying to achieve the ill-chosen object by nil 
kinds of unlawful means resorting to violence and oppressive measures. This is abundantly 
clear from the facts disclosed in the document filed in the case. I am, therefore, of the 
opinion that the Central Government is justified in making the order under section 3 ( 1 ) of 
the Act declaring the Mizo National Front as an unlawful association with immediate 
effect. I am satisfied that there is sufficient cause for declaring this association as unlawful 
and I hereby confirm the said declaration under section 4 ( 3 ) of the Act. This order shall 
be published in the Official Gazette as required under section 4 ( 4 ) of the Act 

Sd/- P. K. Goswami, 

Dated, Gauhati, the 11 th July, 1968 , Tribunal, 

[No. F. 3 / 7 / 68 -PolKK).] 
ANUPAM DHAR, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 14 August 1968 

S.O. 2897.—In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the rules in the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Porccdure, 1908 (5 of 1908) and in supersession of the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S.O. 3260 dated the 23rd October 
1965, the Central Government hereby appoints the officers specified in column (3) of the Table 
below as the officers to whom notice or orders attaching the salary and allowances of persons employ¬ 
ed by the Central Government shall be sent. 


Table 


SI. Officers whose salaries and/or allowances Officers to whom notices shall be sent. 
No. are attached. 

(!) ( 2 ) (3) 


r All gazetted officers . . . The Treasury Offlcer/Pay and Accounts 

Officer who normally disburses the salary 
and allowances of the concerned gazetted 
Officer. 

2 All non-gazetted officers . . . The Head of Office in which the non-gazetted 

officer is for the time being employed. 


[No. 54/4/66-ESTS. (A).] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 5th Auaust 1Q6A 

SO - *898-—In exercise oTthe powers conferred by Rule 24 of the Central Civil Services (Con¬ 
duct) Rules, 1964, the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it under 
sub-rule (2) of rule 8, rule to, rule 13, rule 14, sub-rule (1) to sub-rule (3) of rule 1 j, and sub-rule 
(2) of rule 19 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964, shall, subject to any general or 
special instructios issued in this behalf, be also exerciseable by the Administrator of the Union 
Territory of Pondicherry in respect of persons holding Central Civil Posts in the Departments and 
Offices under his control, other than Class I officers of Central Government on deputation to the 
UnionTcrritory of Pondicherry. 

[No, 25/3/68-ESTS. (A)( 1 ).] 


S- 0 .2899-—In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 24 of the Central Services (Conduct) 
Rules, 1964, rhe Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable bv it under sub- 
rule (2) of rule 4 and Explanation 2(a)(1) to Rule 18 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 
1964, shall subject to any general or special instructions issued in this behalf, be also exercisable by 
the Administrator of the Uniontcrritory ofPondi cherry in respect of persons holding Central Civil 
Posts Class I in the Departments and Offices under his control, other than officers of the Central 
Civil Services Class I and holders ofCentralCivilpostsClass I who areserving on deputation in the 
Union territory of Pondicherry. 

(No. 25/3/68-ESTS.(A)(II).] 





Sec. 3(ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 1890 3901 


S.0. 3,900. —-In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 24 of tbe Central Civil Services (Con¬ 
duct,) Rules, 1964, the Central Government hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it under 
sub-rule(i) ofrule 8 and sub-rule (4) of rule 16 of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964, 
shall, subject to any general or special instructions issued in this behalf be also exercisable by 
the Administrator of the Union Territory of Pondicherry, in respect of persons holding Central 
Civil Posts Class II, Class IT I and Class IV in Departments and Ofliccs under his control. 

[No. 25/3/68-ESTS(A)(III).] 

P. S. VENKATESWARAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 22 nd August 1968 

S.O. 2901.—In pursuance of clause (6) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1956, and in 
continuation of the notifications of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Home Affairs, 
No. 10/2/59-IC, dated the 5th September, 1959, and No. 23/2/66-iC dated 6th January 1967, 
the Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column (2) of the Schedule hereto 
annexed to perform in the State of Assam the functions of the Collector under the said rules in 
respect of the area specified against him in the corresponding entry in column (3) and comprised 
within the district mentioned in column (1) of the said Schedule. 

The Schedule 


Name of District 

Designation of the Officer 


Area 

(1) 

(2) 


(3) 


Kamrup . . . Sub-Divisional Officer, Nalbari 


Nalbari 


[No. 23/2/66-I.C.] 

C. L. GOYAL, Under Secy. 


T? 22 SHUT, 1968 

tjRo 2902.—RIRfCERT fRRR, 1956 % FlRE 2 % (tj) % R^RTU 5f 

TUT UfE, Rf[ tfRTTO rF'RFE r^RHl R 0 10/2/5 9-RT$° *f[o RTflT 5 fRRTOT, 195 9 
tfk To 2 3/2/66 Rlf° rKrtFEJ 6 RRRFt, 1967 % TE R RESET TOR, 

RRT[Rr % EtUR (2) if RlfffiTO T?r, M IR16 RTOT R t^T 6TT ^ TRR, Tt RR% 

RTR Ri RTR% UI«T ( 3) R RcfPfsft Rfafe R | TIR RRfJTI % ERR ( 1) 

5l% R RRlIw g, tjfR fEREf % RRfH % fRTl TT TTHR RfUT % %R 

EdVIFT fdEfE TOR) % I 

RErFF 

Fr%WRTR RTpEET RT EClfERTE UR 

( 1 ) 

RTR t?T 

[R° 2 3/2 /6 6 —RT^o ifto] 

Rt 0 R^ o TflRvfj RRT RfRR 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


RT-TtR RTpERT, ETOT#F 


ETOTiff 




3902 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part 11 — 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1908 

S.O. 2903/RLIUR./18. —In pursuance of rule 18 of the Registration and Licens¬ 
ing of Industrial Undertakings Rules, 1952 , and in pari.,,., modification of the 
Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industrial Development and 
Company Affairs (Department of Industrial Development) No. 276 /RLIUR/ 18 / 1 , 
dated the 8th January, 1968 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl Y. A. 
Fazalbhoy, Presided, All India Manufacturers’ Organisation, Bombay, to be a 
member of the Reviewing Sub-Committee of the Central Advisory Council oi 
Industries till the 3 rd November, 196 . 9 , in place of Shri B. D. Somoni. 

[No. Jl( 3 )/Lic. Pol./ 67 .] 
R. C. SETHI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standard Institution) 

New Delhi, the Sth August 1968 

SO 2904—In cortinu.il ion of the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs 
(Indian Standards Institution) Notification No. S.O. r S95 dated 22nd May 1967, published in (he 
Gazette of India, Part IT, Section 3, Sub-Section (it), dated 3rd June 1967, the Indian Riendcids 
Institution hereby notifies an Additional design of the standard mark for stcc] doors, windows ard 
ventilators which, together with the verbal description and the title of the Indian Standard is given 
in the following Schedule. 

This design of the Standard Mark, for the purpose of Indian Standards Institution (O.rii- 
1 cation Marks) Act, 1952, as amended in 1961 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereir.der 
shall come into force with effect from 1 st August 1968 : 

The Schedule 


SI- Designofthe Product/Class of Pro- No. and Title of the Verbal descriptior of lie 
No. Standard Mark duct Relevant Indian Design of the Standard 

Standard Mark 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) (4) 


( 5 ) 


1 IS : r 038 


Steel doors, windows 
and ventilators 


IS: 1038-1957 Speci¬ 
fication for steel 
doors, windows and 
ventilators 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standards In¬ 
stitution consisting of 
letters ‘ 1 ST drawn in 
the exact style and re¬ 
lative proportions as 
indicated in col (2), 
the number designa¬ 
tion of the Indian Stan¬ 
dard being super¬ 
scribed on the top side 
of the monogram, as 
indicated in the design. 


[No. CMD'1319] 

(Dr.) SADGOPAL, 
Deputy Dirtctor General, 




MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi , the 20 £h August 1968 

S.fJ. 2905 .—Statement of the Aflairs of the Reserve Bank of India a* on the 9th August 1968 

Bayuns Department 

LIABILITIES R*. ASSETS Rs. 


Capital Paid Up . 

Reserve Fond 

National Agricultural Credit (Long 
Term Operations) Fund , , 


National Agricultural’Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Opera lions) Fund . • • 


Deposits— 

(a) Government— 

(t) Central GoverDtoeit 


5 * 00 , 00,000 

£kv»,or I ooo 

i43/*v»^»o 

33,00,00,000 

55,00, ©:v»a 


Notes .... 

Rupee Coin .... 
Small Cots • . . . 

Bills Purchased siul Discounted :— 
(a) Internal . . 

(?) External 

(e) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances Held Abroad* . 

Investments** . , 


Loans tnd Advances to 1 — 

(f) Central Government 
(U) State Governn»en 3 (al 

Loans and Advances t© t — 

(f) Scheduled Commercial Baukst 
(fO State Co-operative Banksft . 
(#0 Others 

52*46,81,000 


29.97*36,000 

4,98,000 

3,67,000 


r 53 , 88 , 3 1,000 
95,20,32,000 

308,20,22,000 


icm3^»,ooo 

97 , 52 , 49,000 

159 * 42 * 47*000 

3,34*4Prf500 


Sec. 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9 , 1890 3903 








LIABILITIES 


Rs. 

ASSETS 

Rs. 




Loan:, Advances and Investments from National Agricultural 
Credit (Long Tam Operations) Fund — 


( it ) State Governments 


18,20,33,000 

(a) Loans and Advances to j — 





(0 State Governments 

31,68,38,000 




(if) State Co-operative Rank* . 

(£B) Central Land Mortgage Banka 

i5,83,78,t»o 

(b) Baida— 



(A) Investment iu Central Land Alortgage Bank 

Debentures ....... 

8,00,024300 

(0 Scheduled Commercial 

Banks . 

135,66,56,000 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund— 


(u) Scheduled State Co-Operative Banks 

5,96,42,000 

Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks . . 

5,78,24,000 

(IS) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Bar ks 

88,80,000 



(fa) Other Bauk«. 

. 

13,17,000 

Loens, Advances and Investments from Nations! Industrial 
Credit (Long Te;m Operations) Fund — 


(e) Othe rs 

- 

38i,53,52,ooo 

(0) Loans and Advances to the Be -elopment Bank . 

6,08,92,000 

Bills Payable 


22 , 27 ^ 9,000 

(A) Investment in bond s/d eben tines issued by the 
Development Back ...... 


Other T.iabfBrtca . 

. 

28,81,76,000 

Otbe* Assets ....... 

36,48,30,000 


Rupees 

961,94,86,000 

Rupees 

961,94,86,000 


•Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Sauri-term Securities. 

••Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term | 
Operations) Fund. 

@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, l 

t Includes Ra. 85,65,59^300 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the Reserve Bank of India A ct, 

ttExriadrng Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuad and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabili¬ 
sation) Fund. 

Dated the 14th day of August, 196S. 


3904 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 0, 1890 [Paht II— 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for die week ended the 9th day of August, 1968 

Issos Department 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Depart¬ 
ment . t 

Notes in circulation . 

Total Notes issued , . , 


29.97,36,000 

3259.54.25> 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion:— 

(a) Held in India. .... 

(4) Held outside India . . 

3289,51,61.000 Foreign Securities .... 

Total 

Rupee Coin ..... 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper 


115.89.25,000 


206,42.00,000 


Total Liabilities 


3289,51,61,000 Total Assets 


322,31,25,000 

79,15,68,000 

2888,04458.000 


3289,51,61,000 


Dated the 14th day of August, 1968. 


L- K. Jha, 
Govemor- 

[No. F. 3(3>-BC/68.J 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1390 3905 



New Delhi, the 22 nd, August 1963 

8 . 0 . 2906.—Statement of the Affairs of the Reaerve Bank of India as on the 16th August, 

Bakenq Dkpabtmnt 


LIABILITIES Rs. ASSETS Rs. 

Capital pqid up.5,00,00,000 Notes.14,49,74,000 

Rupee Coin ........ 3 , 69,000 

Reserve Fund ...... 80,00,00,000 Small Coin.. 3,59,000 


Bills Purchased and Discounted t— 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term 

Operation) Fund . . . . 143,00^x9000 (a) Internal ....... 

(V) External ....... 

(e) Goremnent Treasury Bills .... 141,06,34,000 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabiliaatloo) Fond . 33^x900,000 Ba toner* Held Abroad* . , «... 97,13,00,000 

Lneatmenti** . . , • 35*>64>28*»o 

National Indt*trtal Credit (Long Term Operational 

Fond . , t t t 55VXMXW00 Loana and Adraooea to t— 

(0 Central Gorcrameot . 

(N) Stale Goyenunwtaj© . . , , . i4,36^3j<»o 


3906 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1 96 8 /BHADRA 9, 1890 [Pa»t H- 










Deposits 

(0) Government 

(i) Central Government 

♦ ■ 

53 , 92 * 67,000 

Loam and Advance* to t— * 

(0 Scheduled Gonuuevcial Banks t 

(tO Stale Co-operative Bankatt .... 

(St) Other* . 

Loans, Advance* and Investment* from National Agticul- 

86,15,09,000 

160,31,95^00 

3 , 43 , 96,000 

(ff) State Governments 

• « « I 

13,96,30^00 

tural Credit (Long Term Operation*) Fundi — 

(a) Loam and Advances to : — 


(fc) Bank* 

(0 Scheduled ComrnfereialRJtnfci 

142,51,Sipw 

(0 State Government*. 

( 0 ) State Co-operative Bank* .... 

(to) Central Land Mortgage Banka 
(fr) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loam and Advance* from National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabflbation) Fund: — 

31,68,38,000 

15,81,90,000 

8,11,99,000 

( 0 ) Scheduled State Co-operative Bank* 

6,07,68,000 

Loam and Advance* to State Co-Operative Bank* 

5,77,94,000 

(Ki) Non -Scheduled State 
(to) Other Bank* . 

CoMjpcrttfr* Banks 

* 

1,01,31,000 

16,61,000 

Loam, Advance* and Investment* from National Industrial 
Credit (Long Term Operations) Fundi — 


( 4 ) Others 

a * * ■ 

392,08,73,000 

(a) Loan* and Advahaestotbe Development Bank 

(b) Investment in bond*/debentures issued by the 

6,08,92,000 

Bill* Payable . , 

• • -a c 

17 , 73,4 1 , 000 

Development Bank .... 

Other Assets . 

35,72^0,000 

Other Liabilities . 

Rupees 

28,41,08,000 

971,89,60^06 

Rupee* 

9 ?i> 89 , 60,000 


•Include* Gath, Fixed Deposits cad Short-term Securities. 


♦•Badurting invertmcnta from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fond and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operation*) Fund. 

©Bxdudm* Loan* aad Adnnoe* from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operation*) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments. 

tInclude* Ra. 79,36,69^00 advanced to schedu le d commercial bank* against usance bill* under sectioo 17(4) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

tfExriading Loan* and Advance* from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fuad and the Nation*! Agricultural Credit (StabHi 

ration) Fund. 

Dated the 21 st day of August, 1968 . 


SeC. 3(H)] THfiGAZUITE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. !$«/BHAURA 9, 1 





An Account pais atm to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 16th day of Angust, 1968 

I*de Department 


LIABILITIES 

Ri 

R*. 

ASSETS 

Ra. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Depart¬ 
ment 

Note* in Circulation 

Total Notes issued 

t 4 i 49 > 74 P°° 

3246,03,5 Spcra 

3260,53, 29fiOO 

Gold Com and Bullion 1— 

(a) Held in India 

9 ) Held outride India 

Foreign Securities 

H 5 > 89 , 25 PCO 

206,42,00,000 





Total 

Rupee Coin 

Government of India Rupee Securities • 
Internal Bill* of Exchange and other 
commercial paper 


322,31,25,000 

80,17,36,000 

2858,04,68,000 

Total Liabilities 


3260,53,29^500 

Total Assets 


3260,53^29,000 


Dated the 21st day of August, 1968. L. K. Jim, 

Governor. 


[No. F. 30VBC/68.] 
V. SWAMINATHA N, Under Secy. 


s 

CO 

H 

a 

w 


o 



50 

> 


It « 




Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3909 


(Department of Revenue & Insurance} 

Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1968 

SO-1907. —Whereas the Legislatures of the States of Andhra Pradesh, Mysore and Orissa have 
passed the resolutions under clause (1) of article 252 of the Constitution! adopting the amendments 
made to, or in relation to,theEstateDutyAct,l953(34 of 1953), by— 

(i) the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963 (54 of 1963). 

(ii) the Finance Act, 1964 (5 of 1964), 

(iii) the Taxation Laws (Continuation and Validation of Recovery Proceedings) Act, 1964 
(11 of 1964)3 

(iv) the Direct Taxes (Amendment) Act, 1964 (31 of 1964), 

(v) the Finance Act, 1965(10 of 1965). 

(vi) theFinancc (No. 2) Act,l96j (15 of 1965), 

(vii) the Taxation Laws (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1965(41 of 1965) 
and 

(viii) theFinancc Act, 1966 (13 of 1966), 

1 n so fat as they relate to estate duty in respect of agricultural lands situate in the territories com¬ 
prised in the said States; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions contained in clause (b) of sub-section (2A) of 
Section 5 A of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central Government hereby specifies the 
States of Andhra Pradesh, Mysore and Orissa to which the above-mentioned amendments shall 
apply, and shall be deemed to have applied, on and from the dates on which the amendments mad 
by each of the Acts aforesaid respectively took effect, to estate duty in respect of agriculturale 
lands situate in their territories. 

[No. 25/F.N0,1/9/64-E.D.] 
WAS IQ ALI KI IAN, Dy. Sccy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

Bombay, the 10th July 1968 

S.O. 2908.— A licence No. (i) P/SS/1561952/C/XX/26 C/B/25-26 and No. P/SS,/i56i953/T/OR^ 
26/C/B/25-26 both dated 4-i-‘6S for the value of Rs. 10,000/- and Rs. 2,320/- for the import o_ 
Nylon Moulding Powder and Polysterene were issued to M/s. Elite Trader, 684, Mirzapur, Mir 
shebani Mahalat, Opp. St. X’ avior’s High School, Ahmedabad. 

2. Thereafter, a Show Cause Notice No. E-8/AM. 68/Guj/SSI. IV/4301 dated 2Ah April, 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 7 days as to why the said licences should not 
be cancelled on the ground that the licences had been granted through inadvcrtance. 

3. In response to the aforesaid Show Cause Notice M/s. Elite Traders by their letter dated 
20-5-1968 informed this office that they had submitted their appeal to the Director of Industries, 
Ahmedabad in connection with the adjustment of licence value and asked this office to keep the 
matter pending till this office hear, either front firm directly or from the Director of Industries, 
Ahmedabad, Gujrat State. 

4. The undersigned has carefully examined the case and has come to the conclusion that 
ince the licence in question have been issued through inadvertence, it is not necessary to keep the 
matter pending as desired by the firm. 

J. Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph, the undersigned is 
satisfied that the licences in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. 
Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9 sub-Clause 
(a) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, hereby cancel the licences No. 1561952 and 15619^3 
both dated 4-i-‘68 for Rs. 10,000/- and (ii) Rs. 2,320/- respectively issued in favour of M/s. Elite 
Traders, Ahmedabad. 

[No. 1/84/68 /A U/Enf.] 

B. C. BANERJEE, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
for Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 



3910 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


(Office of the Joint. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23 rd July 1968, 

S.O ; 2909.—A licence No. P/SS/1608868/C/XX/24/CD/23-24 dated 5-12-67 of the value of Rs. 
800/- for import of Copper and Zinc was issued to M/s. Auto Industrial Corporation (India),. 
7847, Nai Basti Bara Hindu Rao, Delhi, subject to the condition that all the items of the goods, 
imported under it shall be used only in the licence holders, factory and no portion thereof snail be 
sold to any other party or utilised or permitted to be used in any other manner. 

2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. A-82/67/ENF/CLA/A-691, dated 27-4-68 was issued 
asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in their favour should not bo 
cancelled on the ground that the Central Govt, is satisfied that the licence will not serve the pur¬ 
pose for which it was granted in terms of Clause 2, sub-clause (cc). 

"^ 3 - In response to the aforesaid show cause notice. M/s. Auto Industrial Corporation (India) 
7847, Nai Basti, Bara Hindu Rao, Delhi furnished no explanation. 

4. Having regard to what has been stated in the proceeding paragraph, the undersigned i® 
satisfied that tne licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffective. There" 
fore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9 sub-clause (cc) of the 
Imports (Control) Order, 19J5 hereby cancel the licence No. P/SS/i6o 8868/C/XX/24/CD/23-24 
dated 5-12-67 for Rs. 800/- issued in favour of M/s. Auto Industrial Corporation (India), 7847, 
Nai Basti, Bara Hindu Rao, Delhi. 

[No. A-22/67/ENF/CLA/3526.] 

J. S. BEDI, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Import* & Exports 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19 th August, 1968 

S.O- 2910.—In oxerciso of the powers conferred by clause 9 (cc) of the Import (Control) Order 
No. 17/55, dated 7th December, 1955, as amended, the undersigned hereby cancels both tho 
Customs purposes copy and Exchange Purposes copy of Import Licence No. G/RC/2086588/C/XX/ 
27/CH/25 dated 7-5-1968 for the importation of 'FAG Self Aligning Spherical Roller Bearings 
22320 HLK. MB. G. 3, F-2, with withdrawal Sleeves FAG/AHX 2320, F-2, falling under serial 
No. 19(2) (1) of Part fl of the I.T.C. Schedule valued Jat Rs. 1591°/- issued in favour of M/a. 
Special Engineering Services Pvt. Ltd. Calcutta. 

The reason for cancellation of the licence is that the licence firm have closed their business 
und are therefore unable to import the goods. 


[No. 4—S/Rly/68-69/GLS/232.] 

S. A. SESHAN, 

Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
(Department of Health &U.D.) 

New Delhi , the 13th August 1968 

S.O. 2911,—Whereas in pursuance of clause (d) of section 3 of the Dentists Act, 1948 
(16 of 1^48), the following persons have been elected by the members of the Senate of the 
Universities specifies 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3911 


against their names to be member of the Dental* Council of India with elfect from the dale of 
election shown against each, namely:— 

Particulars of member Name of the University which 

elected him 

Date of election 

1. Dr. Joginder Singh, BDS, LDS, Punjab University 

RCS., Head of the Dental Wing, 

Government Medical College, 

Patiala. 

(Vice Dr. S. J. Vazirani—term expired) 

27th March, 1968. 

2. Dr.T.B.Patel, MBBS,B. Sc., B. Gujarat University 

Hy.,D.P.H. (London),Director of 

Health and Medical Services, Ah- 
medafcad. 

9th February, 1968. 


And whereas in pursuance of the provisions of alamo (e) of section 3 of the said Act, Dr. M.K. 
Mani, BDS,MDS, Associate Professor of Operative Dentistry, Dental College, Trivandrum, has 
been nominated by the Government of Kerala to be a member of the Dental Council of Ind»a with 
•effect from the 27th May, 196K vide Dr. John Parackal, whose term has expired; 

Now therefore in pursuance of section 3 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
•of Health No. F.3-2/62-MII, dated the 17th October, 1962, namely:— 

I nthe said notification— 

(a) under the healing “Elected under clause (d) of section 3”, (i) for the entry against serial 

No. 6, the following entry shallbcsub8tituted,namely:— 

“6. Dr. Joginder Singh, BDS, LDS,RCS.,Iiead of the Dental Wing, Government Medical 
College, Patiala’*,' 

(ii) afterserialNo. 12 andtheentry relating there to the following Berial No. and entry 
shall be inserted, namely«— 

“13. Dr. T. B. Patel, MBBS,B. Sc., B- Hy., D.P.H. (London), Director of Health and 
Medical Services, Ahmedabad”.' 

(b) under the heiding “Nominated under clause (e) of section 3* for the entry against serial 

No. 3”, the following entry shall be inserted, namely:—. 

“3, Dr. M. K. Mani, BDS, MDS, Associate Professor of Operative Dentistry, Dental 
College, Trivandrum.”. 


[N0.F.3-3/67-MPT,] 
K. DEO, Under Secy. 


(Department of Health and Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 22nd August 1968 

S.O. 1912.—In P rrs iince of sub-rule ( 6 ) of rule 57 of the Indian Port Health Rules, 
1955, the Central J- > j :rument herebyraikcs the following amendmentin the notification of 
the Government of India In the Ministry of Health and Family Planning (Department of Health) 
No. S O. 1 58 1, dated the 2nd May, 1967 published at page 1681 in Part II, Section 3(i») of the 
Guitteof Iniiadatcd thei3thMay, 1967, namely:— 

For Part III of the Schedule to the t aid notification, the following Part shall be substituted’ 
namely :— 

“Part III 

Scale of fees to be charged for the grant of a Derating Certificate after derating has 
been carried out by the Port Health Organisation by poison baiting. Rs. 

For a vessel hiving a cubic capacity of 8500 cubic metres or less . 250 

Far a vessel hieing a cubic capacity of morcthan 8500 cubic metres . 300 

[No, F. 13-26/61-IH.] 

L. K. MURTHY, Under Secy. 


3912 l ' f,E OAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 . 1890 [J7 rt IF— 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 12 th August 1968 

S-O.2913.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 3 oj the 
Gin: nai ograph Act,i952, read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, T958, the 
Central Government hereby appoints the following persons as a member of tjie Central Board 
of Film CenBorB with immediate eifect. 

1. ShrlB-N- Sircar. 

2. ShriPrabodhRaval.- 

3. KumariA. M.Nadfcarni. 

4. Smt-VeenaDuggal. 

[No. ii/ 8 / 67 -F(C).] 

S-O. 2914'—'In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cinematograph Act,. 
1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with Bub-rule 2 of rule 9 of rheCincmatograph (Censorship) 
Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoinU Shri Nissim Hzckiel as a member of the. 
Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors, at Bombay withimmediatc effect. 

[No. ii/2/68-F(C).] 

H. B. KANSAL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 2 nd August 1968 

S.O. 2916 .—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial disputes 
between the employers in relation to the Nandini Mines of Bhilai Steel Plant, 
Bhilai and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 
29 th July, 1968 . 

CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Dated July 22 , 1908 

Present: 

Sri G. C» Agarwala —Presiding Officer. 

Case Ref. No. CGIT/LC(R)( 150 ) of 1967 

Parties : 

Employers In relation to the Nandini Mines of Bhilai Steel Plant, Bhilai 
(District Durg.) 


Vs. 

Their workmen, represented through the President, Samyukta Khadan 
Mazdur Sangh, P.O. Nandini Mines, District Durg. 

Appearances; 

For employers —S/Shri M- R. Raju, Senior Labour Officer (Conciliation) and 
K. G-- Marar, Additional Labour Welfare Officer, 

For workmen—Sri P- K, Thakur, Vice President. Samyukta Khadan Mazdur 
Sangh- 

Industry: Steel Plant. District: Durg (M.P,) 

AWARD 

By Notification No. 37 / 12 / 67 -LRI dated 22 nd November 1967 , the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ¬ 
ment), Government of India, referred the following matter of dispute as stated 
In the schedule to the order of reference to this tribunal, for adjudication;— 

Matter of Dispute 

Whether the action of the management in charging rent from the employees 
of the Nandini Mines in respect of 70 quarters which have been 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3913 . 


renovated Is justified and legal? If not, to what relief are these- 
workmen entitled?, 

2 . Facts leading to the dispute are short and simple. Certain temporary sheds, 
320 in number, were set up for the construction stall in the Nandini Mines during 
the year 1980 - 61 - Walls of the sheds were of bamboo mattings and doors and 
windows were of inferior stud'. The cost as stated by the management was to 
the tune of Rs. 2 , 15 , 245 . 30 - There was a severe cyclone in 1962 as a result of 
which these sheds were blown off and temporary sheds were renovated by brick- 
walls and for window's and doors, better wood was used. This again was made 
at a cost of Rs. 2 , 35 , 751 . 00 - There was again a cyclone of greater severity on 
30 th January 1964 and 70 of these temporary quarters were again repaired and 
renovated- The total cost of all these worked up to Rs. 6.4 lacs. The allotment 
of these 70 huts was made by an order of the Mines Manager dated 11 th Septem¬ 
ber, 1964 (Ex. E/8). No rent was being charged from the allottees either before 
or after the allotment. No condition was stated in the allotment order that rent 
would be charged. There was an audit objection raised pn 7 th October 1965 
which stated that no rent was being charged for the 300 labour huts and 20 tem¬ 
porary staff quarters from August, 1960 to March, 1965 and which resulted in 
the toss of revenue to the extent of Rs. 1 , 28 . 000 /- (Ex- E/ 3 ). This audit objection 
geared up the machinery and a Committee was appointed to assess the rent. It 
comprised ol the Mines Manager, Zonal Engineer and Assistant Accounts Officer. 
The Committee recommended that upto 31 st December 1985 rent should he charged 
C(i> Rs, 3 /- p.m. based on the capital cost of Rs. 2 , 15 , 245 /- and that from 1 st Jan¬ 
uary 1966 rent should be charged @ Rs. 4/- p.m. from those drawing pay below 
Rs. 110 /- and Rs. 6 f- from those drawing pay of Rs. 110 /- and above or 5 % 
of the pay whichever is less. On the basis of this the Superintendent, Ore Mines 
and Quarries issued an order dated 23 rd October, 1965 (Ex. E/ 9 ) for recovery 
of rent- Some recovery was started from March, 1966 in respect of these 70 
hutments @ Rs. 16 /- to Rs. 24 /- from each occupant which covered the arrears 
for past occupation. The Union protested to the management by means of letter 
dated 12 th April 1966 (Ex, E/ 5 ) complaining that recovery has been made from 
72 workers who were occupying the rent-free temporary huts. The Superinten¬ 
dent Ore Mines & Quarries in his reply dated 28 th April 1966 (Ex. E/6) intimat¬ 
ed that these quarries had been renovated at a cost Rs. 2 lacs and odd and the 
occupants were liable to pay rent. The Union then took up the matter in con¬ 
ciliation which in due course resulted in this reference. 

3 . I had occasion to inspect the hutments on 19 th May 1968 . There were two 
types of these hutments. In one type, rooms were found divided in two apart¬ 
ments by small, low walls without door. The partition wall did not go upto the 
roof. The other type of hutments were smaller and were without partition walls. 
All these were roofed by corrugated G. I. sheets and walls were without plaster. 
There were no ventilators but one rickety window was found in every room. 
Each room had one entrance and on window. There were latrines at some dis¬ 
tance but were not in use for want of supply of water. There was no facilities 
of running water, light or conservancy. The quarters still are in the nature of 
temporary hutments as in fact were described so by the Mines Manager while 
alloting them. The stand taken by the management that even though the accom¬ 
modation is not of standard type of quarters with necessary amenities for which 
rent is cha rged (a) 74% the occupants of these hutments or quarters are liable to 
pay rent because they have been renovated. It is stated that by two previous 
allotments, one dated‘ 2 nd September 1963 (Ex. E/ 10 ) with respect to 10 of these 
and the other (Ex. E/ 2 ) for 30 of these hutments, allottees had been warned that 
they would be liable to pay rent as and when decided. That may have been so, 
but the subsequent allotment after renovation of the gale in January, 1964 makes 
no mention about the liability to pay rent. The occupants are the allotteeg by 
reason of this allotment order dated llt.h September 1964 . When no liability, to 
pay rent was imposed on the allottees it is not open to the management to require 
the occupants to pay rent just because the finance raised objection and a Com¬ 
mittee in which the workmen rather allottees were not represented, not even con¬ 
sulted, had decided that rent at reduced rate for these temporary hutments should 
be charged. General Manager’s order dated 6th August 1957 (Ex. E/ 4 ) stating 
that standard rent of each building would be chargeable from the date of occupa¬ 
tion and in accordance with Fundamental Rule 45 A subject to maximum of 10 % 
of the pay is wholly inapplicable. That order of the General Manager has appli¬ 
cation to - buildings and quarters and not for temporary hutments. In any case, 
it was not observed when the occupants occupied these temporary hutments In 
1961 and were continued to be permitted to do so without any liability of rent. 
Even for renovated hutments, the occupation was not made dependent on payment 



■3914 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


of rent. Without making the hutments Into standard labour quarters with public 
facilities of light water and conservancy, the management is not justified to 
charge rent, much less from a back date. Workers cannot be made to pay for 
money thrown in gutter by this ill planned and misconceived investment. 


Decision 

The management will not be justified to charge rent from the occupants of 
-the hutments in question until they have been made of standard types comparable 
with such for which rent Is charged. In any case without improving these quar¬ 
ters and providing necessary public amenities of light, water and conservancy no 
rent will be chargeable. The Union will be entitled to Rs- 100 /- as costs of pro¬ 
ceedings from the management. 


G C. Agahwala, 

Presiding Officer. 
22-7-1968. 

[No. 37/12/67-LRI-] 


'Nqto Delhi, the 14th August 1968 

S.O. 2916.—Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the presiding officer of the Indus¬ 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 
2653, dated the 24th August, 1966; 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 (14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Binayak Nath Banerjee as the 
presiding officer of the said Industrial Tribunal with effect from the 23rd July, 1968. 

[No. i/56/68-LRI/(i).] 


S.O - 2917.—Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the presiding officer of the Labour 
Court No, 2, at Calcutta constituted by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 
2652, dated the 24th August 1966; 

Nov, chirifore in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Binayak Nath Banerjee as the 
presiding officer of the as id Labour Court with effect from the 23rd July,|i968. 

[No. i/56/68-LRI/(ii).] 


New Delhi, the 19 th August 1968 

S.O. 2918.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Bub-sections (1) and (2) of section 7 of th 1 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (t4 of 1947) the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment m the Notification of the Government of India in tho Ministry of Labour, Employ¬ 
ment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. 4329, dated the 30th 
November, 1967 appearing on page 4586 of the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section 
,£ii) dated the 9th December, 1962, namely:— 

In the said notification, 

For the word “Rohtak” the word "Faridabad” shall be substituted. 


[No. F. 1/45/68-LRL] 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3915 ; 


S.O. 3919. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (r4 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Presiding Officer, Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbud, in the matter of an application under Section 33A 
of the said Act, from Shri Ali Mohammed, Male Mazdoor, B. No. 1982, C/o Hamid Mian, Blaster, 
No. 3 Gorkha Line, A/7-T2, Post Office Mosaboni Mines, District Singhbhum, Bihar, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 7th August, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-Cwn-LABOUR. 

COURT AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Complaint No. 4 op 1968. 

Parties : 

Ali Mohammed, Male Mazdoor, B- No. 1982 , C/o Hamid Mian. Blaster, No- 3 ,. 
Gorkha Line, A/ 7 - 12 , P.O- Mosabani Mines, Distt. Singhbhum, Bihar— 
Complalnaiit. 

Vs. 

M/s. Indian Copper Corporation Ltd-, P-O. Mosaboni Mines, District Singh-- 
bhum, Bihar —Opposite Party. 

Present : 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Complainant —None. 

For the Opposite Party —Shri K. C. Goel, Legal Officer. 


State Bihar. : 


Industry : Copper.. 


Dhanbad, dated the 30th July, 1968. 

AWARD 

This complaint by Ali Mohammed, Male Mazdoor, (B. No. 1982) was filed under section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal at J abal- - 
pur, but the Ministry transferred it to this Tribunal vide Government Order No. 24/36/66- LRI 
dated the 3rd February, 1968. It has been registered here as complaint No. 4 of 1968. 

2. The complainant’s case is that he was appointed on the 23rd May, 1966 on probation for' 
six months and that he was confirmed on the 23rd November, 1966, but his services were termi¬ 
nated on the 23rd January, 1967 as a punitive and malafide measure. The company’s case in its 
rejoinder is that Ali Mohammed was in fact appointed on the 23rd May, 1966 on probation for 
six months but he had no right to be automatically confirmed aftar six months’ work on the 
23rd November, 1966 nor was any order passed on that date for his confirmation. His services 
were found unsatisfactory and hence, after the expiry of six months, Iris services were 
extended to the 23rd January, 1967 when his services were terminated. 

3. The complainant has not appeared. Shri B. N. Singh, Advocate, appears on behalf of the 
Mosaboni Mines Labour Union. He says that he has 110 instruction in tint, case. 

4. The company has filed some documents to prove its case. The complainant has not 
filed any document nor has he taken any step to prove his case that he was a confirmed cm ployee 
of t he company. I f he continued to be on probation as alleged by the company, it was open to the 
company to terminate his services on finding his work to be unsatisfactory. 

5. As the complainant has not proved his case, the complaint is dismissed. Let this award• 
be 3 ubmitted to the Central Government. 


Sd/- Kamla Sahai, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial 
Tribunal. Dhanbad. 

[No. 24/36/66- LRI.]. 



39 i6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 'Part II— 


New Delhi, the 26 th August 1968 

S.O, 2920 _In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 

1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in respect of a complaint 
under section 33 A of the said Act, filed by Shrl K- Pareesam, Senior Technical 
Officer, Air India, which was received by the Central Government on 8th August 
1908 - 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL BOMBAY 
Complaint No. CGIT -11 of 1968 
(Arising out of Reference No. CGIT -26 of 1967 ) 

Parties : 

Shri K. Pareesam.— Complainant- 

Vs. 

Air India Corporation, Bombay-— Opposition Party, 

Present : 

Shri A. T. Zambre, Presiding Officer- 
Appearances: 

For the Air India. —Shri P. P. Khambhata, Counsel, with Shri T. V, Lalwani, 

Industrial Relations Adviser, and Shri P. D. Baliwala, Dy. Engineering 

Manager. 

For the Complainant. —Shri Karedla Pareesam. 

State; Maharashtra- Industry; Alrways- 

Bombay, 21 st June 1968 
AWARD 

1 . Mr. K. Pareesam Sr. Technical Officer of the Air India Corporation has 
filed this complaint against the corporation under section 33 A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 - 

2 . The employees of the Air India Corporation represented by the Aircrafts 
Engineering Association had made a demand to the corporation that no one 
except the Aircraft maintenance engineers employed by the corporation should 
be or required or allowed to inspect or certify the maintenance or overhaul of 
the aircraft or its components or do both as per terms of the agreement arrived 
at between corporation and the association. The management had not accepted 
the claim and had contended that the agreement had nothing to do whatsoever with 
the inspection and certification of Air Crafts. They have contended that the 

- employment of approved Inspectors in the workshop of the corporation at 
Santacruz was the long standing practice followed and was in accordance with 
the Director General of Civil Aviation requirement for approved inspection. As 
a result this dispute could not be settled and the employees had also resorted to 
strike and the matter 1 has been referred to the tribunal and is pending in reference 
No- CGIT-20 of 1967 . 

3 - The complaint Shri K. Pareesam who was working as the senior technical 
officer in the scale of Rs, 1000 — 100—1500 and drawing Rs. 1400 /- was alleged to 
have taken part in the above mentioned) illegal strike and was proceeded for 
misconduct- The corporation charged the complainant with three misconducts : 

(a) Wilful in subordination and disobedience of the lawful and reasonable 

order of his superiors- 

(b) Absence from duty without permission and without sufficient cause 

in combination with orders. 

(c) Aiding and abetting an illegal strike by the All India Aircraft Engine¬ 

ers’ Association- 

4 - A departmental enquiry committee was appointed and alter notice an 
enquiry was held. 

5 . The complainant Pareesam did not take part in the departmental enquiry 
proceeding and it was heard ex parte and as the result of the departmental 
enquiry the General Manager reduced him in rank by order No. GM/ 74-15 
(BJ /6217 dated 17 th November, 1967 which was communicated to him by the 
Personnel Manager In letter No. E/ 18 - 8 - 3/6217 of 17 th November, 1967 - " The 
complainant thereafter preferred an appeal against order of reduction, The 



■Sec. 3(ii)| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 5890 3917 


appellate authority chairman of the corporation after hearing the appellant 
ooccpied the finding of the enquiry committee regarding the misconduct. But 
considering the. good record of services of the complainant modified the order of 
sentence and passed the order reducing him by one stage i.e. Rs. 1 , 300 /- in the 
same grade- 

U- The complainant had alleged in the complaint that he was directly concerned 
in Die dispute pending before the tribunal in reference No. CGIT -26 of 1967 - 
The departmental enquiry held by the corporation was merely an offshoot of the 
strike undertaken by the workmen which resulted in the reference. The corpora¬ 
tion had not obtained any permission of the tribunal before passing the order. 
The enquiry was illegal malaflde and unjust. It was also opposed to the cannons 
ot natural juslice and the same should be set aside. 

7 . After the complainant notices were issued to the parties, but before any 
written statement by the corporation the complainant requested the tribunal by 
a letter to treat his complaint as closed. Hence again notices were issued and 
the parties were heard- 

8 - The complainant who is present admitted that, he had sent the letter about 
the withdrawal of the complaint- He requested the tribunal to give him permission 
io withdraw the complaint as he did not want to proceed with the same complaint. 
The corporation has also no objection. As the complainant does not press his 
complaint It shall have toi be held that the management has not contravened the 
provision of section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and the complainant is not 
entitled to any relief. Hence my award accordingly. 

No Order as to costs. 

Copy of this award is to be 1 submitted to the government as required by law. 

(Sd.) A. T. Zambre, 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay- 

[No- 4 / 163 / 67 -LRIII.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1968 

S- 0 .2921.—Whereas a vacancy has occured in the office of Tic presiding officer of 
[he Labour Court with headquarters at Bangalore, constituted by the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labourand Employment, No. S.O. 459, dated 
the 5th Fobruary, 1963; 

Now, therefore, in pit sutnee of the provisions of sections of the Industrial Disputes 
i\ct, 1947(14 of 1947 }, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M.K. Srinivasa 
[yeangar as the presiding officer of the Labour Court constituted as aforeaid. 

[No. F. 1/46/681-LRl.] 

S.O.2922.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the M/s. Marlin’s Light Railways CalcuLta and their 
workmen in respect of the matter specified tn the Schedule hereto annexed. 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication i 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (ti) of sub-section (P 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3), Dhanbad constituted 
rnder section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

“Whether the management of Arrah Sasaram Light Railway Company Limited, was justified 
in terminating the services of Shri S. S. Tiwari, Clerk with effect from the 26th January, 1967. If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


[No. 2/18/68-LRIII.J 



3918 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : AD GUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 19 th August 1968 

S.O. 2923.—Whereas an industrial dispute exists betvveen the Bhilai Steel Plant] Bhilai 
[Senior Labour Officer (Conciliation))] (hereinafter referred to as the said Company) and their 
workmen represented by Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, Post Office Nandini Mines, District 1 
Durg (hereinafter referred to as the Union). 

And whereas the said Company and the Union have, by a written agreement, in pur¬ 
suance of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 10A of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), referred the said dispute to arbitration of tire person mentioned therein, and a 
copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now, the refore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section ioAJJof" 
ihe Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby published the said: 
arbitration agreement which was received by it on the 26th July, 1968.5 

Agreement 

(Under Section 10-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

Between 

Names of the parties 

Representing Employers : Shri M. R. Raju, 

Senior Labour Officer (Conciliation), 

Bhilai Steel Plant, 

Bhilai (District Durg) (M. P.) 

Representing Workmen : Shri D. K. Rao, 

Secretary, 

Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, - 
P.O. Nandini Mines (Distt. Durg) (M.F.) 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the arbitra¬ 
tion of Shri S. Sankarappa, Assistant Labour Commissioner (C), China Chambers, Mount Road 
Extension, Nagpur. 

(i) Specific matters in disputes 

“Whether the demand of the Union for the upgradation of all Pump Attendants in Nandini 
Mines is justified 1 If so, to what relief are these workmen entitled and from which 
date” ? 

(ii) Details of the parties to the dispute including the name and address of the establishment or 
undertaking involved 

Employer in relation to the Nandini Alines of Bhilai Steel Plant, P. O. Nandini Mines 
(Distt. Durg) (M.P.) and their workmen represented by Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor 
Sangh, P.O. Nandini Mines (Distt. Durg) (M.P.) 

(iii) Name of Union, if any, representing the workmen in question 

Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor Sangh, P.O. Nandini Mines (Distt. Durg) (M.P.) 

(iv) Total Number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected) 

1600 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute 

22 

We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The Arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such further time 
as is extended by the mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the aw T ard is not made 
within the period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration shall stand automatically can¬ 
celled and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 

Representing employers Representing workmen :: 

Sd./- M. R. Raju, Sd./- D. K. Rao, 

13-7-1968. 13-7-1968. 

Witnesses : 

1. Sd./- Kartik Ram’Sahu,—13-7-68. 

Organising Secretary, 

S. K. M. Sangh, Nandini. ’ 

2. Sd./- P. S. Rao, 

Bilaspur, dated the 13 th July, 1968. 

[No. F. 37/33/68-LRl.] 

O. P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3<ij)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA.: AUGUST 31, 1968/BHABRA 9, 189& 39.19 


(Depaartmeat of Labour & Employment) 

Nea Delhi, the 14th August, 1968 

a. 0 .2904. —In, exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (t) of section 13 of tho 
Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Government hereby appoint* 
Sarvashri B. N: Bajpai and R. N. Misra to be Inspectors for the whole of tho State of Uttar 
Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to any 
establishment belonging to, or under the control, of the Central Government or in relation to 
any establishment connected with a railway company > a mine or an oil-field or a controlled 
industry. 

[No. ai(4)/68-PF-I.] 

ffcO. 2925.— In exercise of tho powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ State In¬ 
surance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location in an im¬ 
plemented area of the State Transport Workshops at Meenakshipurm and Ranithottam of Kanya 
Kumar! Branch of the Madras State Transport Department, hereby exempts the said Transport 
Workshops from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under chapter VA 
of tho. said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 29th July, 1968. 

[No. F. 6(70)/68-HI»J 

S.O 2926. —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location of the 
factory, namely, the laundry Plant at the Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur, hereby (-Kempt* 
the said factory from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of tho said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 5th August, 1968. 

[No. F. 6(72)/68-HI.] 


NttnDelhi, the 17th August 1968 

S.O. 1917,— -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and the majority 
of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs Moti City Sales, 134, Nyniappa 
Naick Street, Madras-3 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
Act, 1952 (19, of 1952), should, be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 1 of the 
said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said 
establishment with effect from the 31st August, 1968. 

[No. 8/104/68/PF-II.] 
DAL JIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Deptt. of Labour and-Bmpbaffmen t) 

Neto Delhi, the 17th August, 1968 

S.O. 2928. —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ft) of section 4 of the Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (49 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following Scheme further to amend tlte Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regula¬ 
tion of Employment) Scheme, 1957, the same having been previously published as required by the 
said sub-section namely :— 

1, This Scheme may be called the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Em¬ 
ployment) Second Amendment Scheme, 1968. 

2. In clause 14 of the Calcutta Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 

Scheme, 1957 — 

(i) for sub-clause (3), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely :— 

"(3X0 A listed dock worker in any of the pools who fails to comply with any of the pro¬ 
visions of this Scheme, or commits any act of indiscipline or misconduct, may be 
reported against in writing to the Labour Officer. 

(ii) The Labour Officer after investigating the matter may give him a wanting in 
writing or suspend him for a period not exceeding seven days.” 

(it) in sub-clauses (3-A), (4) and (5), the words "or the Personnel Officer, as the case may 
be," wherever they occur, shall be omitted. 


[No. 623/45/66-Fac. IL) 



3920 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 19th August 1968 

S.O. 3929.—The following draft of a scheme for the port of Visakhftpatnam which the 
Central Grvernment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948) is published 
as rebuffed by the said sab-section for the Information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby and notice Is hereby given thatthe draft will be takeninto consideration on oraftcr 
the 2nd September, 1968. 

2. Any objections or stiggejtlons which may be received from any person with respect to the 
s aid draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central Government. 

Draft Schenie 

THE VISAKHAPATNAM UNREGISTERED DOCK WORKERS (REGULATTCN 
OF EMPLOYMENT) SCHEME, 1968. 

1. Name of the Scheme. —This Scheme may be called the Visakhapatnam Unregistered Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the “Scheme”). 

2. Objects, application and commencement. —(1) The objects of the Scheme are to regulate 
the .employment of the dock workers to whom this Scheme applies and to ensure efficient 
performance of work by the said workers. 

(2) The Scheme relates to the Port of Visakhapatnam and applies to the dock workers of 
the classes specified in the Schedule and to the employers of such dock workers, bpt does not 
apply to : 

(a) workers engaged in any class or description of work carried out in workshops or in 

respect of sailing vessels or by ship’s crew, or 

(b) workers engaged in any class or description of dock work carried out in relation to any 

ship of the Indian Navy; 

(c) monthly paid workers of listed employers : 

Provided thatthe Scheme shall not apply to any dock worker or employer unless he is listed 
as such under the Scheme. 

(3) It 9hallcome into force on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 

3. Difinition. —In this scheme, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject orcontext 

(a) ‘ ‘Act” means the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 1948); 

£6) “Administrative Body” means the Administrative Body appointed under claused 
of the Scheme; 

(c) “Board” fficims the Vizagapatam Dock Labour Board constituted under the Act; 

(d) “Chairman” and “Deputy Chairman” means the Chairmanartd Deputy Chairman 

respectively of the Board; " ' ' 

(e) “Committee” means a committee appointed under clause,14; 

(/) “daily Worker” means a dock worker who is not a monthly worker; 

(?) ‘ ‘dock work” means work ordinarily performed by dock workers of the classes to which 
• this Scheme applies; 

( h ) “dock employer’ 'means the person and/or firm by whom a dock worker to whem this 
Scheme applies is employee! or is to be employed; 

(») “Personnel Officer” and' 'Labour Officer” means the officers appointed as such under 
clause 3 or clause 13 of this Scheme; 

(j) “Listed employer” means a dock employer listed by the Board under clause 15 and 
includes for the purpose of clause 22 an authorised agent of such employer; 

(A) “listed worker” means a dock worker listed under clause 16 ; 

(0 “vessel” means an ocean going vessel or ship whose grosB registered tonnage is not less 
than 350 tons. 

4. Administrative Body. —(1) The Central Government may, by notification 
in ■ the official gazette, appoint an association or L body consisting of such 
employers of dock workers as tne Central Government may nominate in this behalf to be 
the 1 Administrative Body for the purpose of carrying out the functions assigned to it under the 
Scheme. If no such Administrative Body is appointed, the Deputy Chairman shall cany out 
the functions of the Administrative Body. 

(2) The Administrative Body shall, without prejudice to the powers of the Board, Chairman 
andDeputyChairmanandsuhjccttotheproviBionsofclausc 9 carry outthc day today adminis¬ 
tration ofthe Schemeaaassigncd to it hereunder. 



Skc. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3921 


( 3 ) The Central Government may for sufficient cause remove any Administrative Body 
appointed under sub-clause ( 1 ): 

Provided that the Administrative Body shall not be removed unless it has been given a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

( 4 ) If the Deputy Chairman carries out the functions of the Administrative Body, he 
may be assisted by an Administrative Superintendent in the discharge of his functions under 
clause 10 . 

5 . Appnitmeni of officers and other staff. —The Board may appoint Personnel Officer, other 
officers and servants as it deems 1 : cessary and pay them such salaries and allowances and prescribe 
such terms and conditions of service as it deems fit: 

Provided that no post the maximum salary of which exclusive of allowances Is rupees eight 
hundred and above per mensem shall be created and no appointment to Such post shall be made 
by the Board except with the previous approval ofthe Central Government: 

Provided further that the sanction ofthe Central Government shall not be necessary to any 
appointment in a leave vacancy of a duration ofnot more than three months. 

6 . ptiiotions of the Board- —The Board may, with a view to furthering the objects of the 
Scheme, take such measurs as it may consider desirable including measures for— 

(.a) ensuring the adequate supply and the full and proper utilisation of the listed dock 
workers for the purpose of facilitating the rapid and economic turnround of vessels 
and the speedy transit of goods through the port; 

(ft) regulating the recruitment and entry into and the discharge from the Scheme of dock 
workers and the allocation of listed dock workers to listed employers: 

(c) d:termmingandkeepingunderreview,in consultation with the Administrative Body 

the number of listed employers and listed dock workers from time to time on the 
registers or records and the increase or reduction to be made In the numbers in any 
such registers or records: 

(d) keeping, adj istlng and maintainingthe employers’ registers, entering orre-entejing there¬ 

in the name of any dock employer and where circumstances so require, removing from 
such register the name of any listed dock employer, cither at his own request or in 
accordance with the orovisions of the Scheme: 

(e) keeping, adjusting and maintaining from time to time such registers or records, as may 

be necessiry, of dock workers, including any registers or records of dock workers 
Who ace temoorlrily not available for dock work and whose absence has been approved 
by the Administrative Body and, where circumstances so reauire, removing from 
registers or records the name of any listed dock worker either at nis own requestor in 
accordance with the provisions ofthe Scheme : 

(/) the grouping orragrouping of all listed dock workers into such groups as may be deter¬ 
mined by the Board after consultation with the Administrative Body and theresf'n 
reviewing the grouping of any listeddockworkeronthcapplicationofthcAdmlnistra- 
tivc Body or of the listed dock worker; 

(f) making provision for the training and welfare of listed dock workers including medical 

benefits in so far as such provision docs not exist apartfrom the Scheme; 

(A) levying and recovering from listed employers contributions in respect of the expenses 
of the Scheme; 

(i) making provision for health and safety measures in places where dock workers are 

employed in so far as such provision does not exist apart from the Scheme; 

(j) maintaining and administering the Dock Workers Welfare Fund and recover ri from all 

listed employers contributions towards the Fund in accordance with the rules of the 
Fund that may be framed under the Scheme. 

(A) maintaining and administering a provident fund and a gratuity for listed workers in 
the pool. 

(/) narrowing or raising money and issuing debentures or other securities and, for the 
p urpose of s ecuring any debt or obligation mortgaging or charging all or any part of the 
property of the Board. 

7 . Rtsp risibilities and duties of the Board in meeting. —The Board in meeting Bhall be res¬ 
ponsible for dealing with all matters of policy and in particular to— 

(а) fix the number of dock workers to belisted under various categories; 

( б ) i ncre ase or decrease the number of workers in any category on the register or record from 

time to time as may be necessary after a oerlodical review ofthe registers and anticipa¬ 
ted requirements; 



3922 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADBA 9, 1890 [Part ft— 


(c) sanction the temporary listing of a specified number of workers in any category for a 
specified period; 

id) consider listing of new employers on the recommendations of the Chairman; 

(a) prescribe forms, records, registers, statements and the like required to be maintained 
under the Scheme; 

(/) determine the wages in relation to the actual output of work pertaining Co the categories 
of listed workers in different stages and also their allowances and other conditions of 
service. 

(g) fix the rate of administrative and other charges under clause 22. 

(A) fixthcrate ofcantributiomto bemadeby listed employers to the Dock Workers Welfare 
Fund; 

it) appoint, abolish or reconstitute Committee* under clause 14; 
if) sanction the annual budget ; 

(A) subject to the provisions of clause 9(1) (A) sanction the creation of posts which are 
specified and. make appointments to such posts; 

(/) make recommendations to the Central Government about changes in Schedule; 

(m) make recommendations to the Central Government about any modifications ip the 
Scheme; 

(n ) endeavour to settle disputes about which a request for adjudication has been made to the 

Central Government by the parties concerned and report to the Government the results 
of such endeavours; 

(0) discuss statistics of output of labour and record its observations and. directions ;,and 

ip) sanction the opening of accounts in such scheduled Banks as it may direct and the 
operation of such, accounts by such persons as the Board may from time to time-direct. 

%. A’tnual Erturtiies .—The Chairman shall, at a special meeting to be held before the end of 
February in each year, lay before the Board the annual budget as received from the Administrative 
Body for the year commencing on the first day of April then next ensuing, in such detail and form as 
the Board may, from lira* to time,prescribe. The Board shall considerthe estimates so presented 
tcrit and shall, within 1 four weeks of it's presentationsanction the same either unaltered or subject to 
auch alterations as it may deem fit 

9. Ri; •>■> virilities and duties of Chairman. —(1) The Chairman shall have full administrative 
and,executive powers to deal with all matters relating to the day-to-day administration of the 
Scheme and in particular :— 

(4) ta ensure that the decisions of the Board in regard to the adjustment.of the workers’ 
registers are carried out expeditiously; 

(A) to supervise and control the working of the Administrative Body and to take suitable 
steps if any irregularities are detected by him or brought to his notice; 

(c) to ensurethat proper and adequate supervision is provided by the listed employers over 
the workers employed at their places of work; 
id.) to ensure that theprovisions of the Scheme in regard to transfer and promotion of workers 
are carried out; 

(e) to constitute Medical Boards when required; 

if) to ensure that conditions, laid down in the Scheme, for thelisting of employers arc com¬ 

plied with by them; 

ig) to ensure that all forma, registers, return sand documents, prtscribed under the Scheme, 

are properly maintained; 

(A) to sanction the creation of posts the maximum salary of which exclusive of allowances is 
upto rupees six hundred and to make appointments to such posts-; 

(i) to take disciplinary action against listed dock workers and employers in accordance with 
the provisions of the Scheme; 

(J) to allow relaxation, in.the maximum number of ahifts.pcx worker per week or per month, 
and to report such cases to the Board 1 

(A) to declare that there has been a ‘go-slow’ and to take action as authorised under the 
Scheme; 

(0 to declare e'state of emergency!’ and to take action as authorised under the Scheme; 

(m) to make a report, when necessary to the Central Government - under rule j of the 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Rules, 1962; 
in) to sanction the transfer of a monthly worker to the reserve pool at the request of the 

employer or the dock worker, as provided for in the Scheme; 



Sec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : AUGUST 31. I968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3923 


(0) to deal with appeals under clauses 33 and 34. 

(р) to discharge allother duties and responsibilities specifically vested in the Chairman 

under the Scheme. 

(2) The Chairman may delegate in writing to the Deputy Chairman arty of the functions 
under sub-clause(i). 

10. Responsibilities and duties of the Deputy Chairman .—The Deputy Chairman shall assist 
the Chairman in-the discharge of his functions and, in particular, shall— 

fa) discharge all functions relating to disciplinary action against listed employers and 
dock workers to the extent permitted under clause 32. 

(6) function as Chairman of Committees of the Board to which he may be nominated 
a member; 

( с ) preside over the meetings of the Board in the absence of the Chairman; 

( d ) carry out the functions of the Administrative Body if there is no Administrative 

Body appointed under clause 4. 

(e) exercise such other functions as tire delegate to him by the Chairman under clause '9. 

rl . Functions of the Personnel Officer —ThePersonnei Office^ shall assist the Deputy Chairs 
man and shall carry out such functions as may be delegated tohim by the Deputy Chairman, 


12. Functions of the Administrative Body —Withourprreiudicc tothepowers and functions of 
the Board, Chairman and the Deputy Chairman, the Administrative Body shall be responsible 
for the administration of the Scheme and shall in particular be responsible for— 

(a) keeping, adjusting and maintaining the employers’list entering or re-entering fherc 
inthe name ofany dock employer and, where circumstances st>require removingfrom 
the list the name of anvlistcd employer either at his own request or in accordance 
with the provisions of the Scheme; 

( b ) keeping, adjusting and maintaining from time to time such lists., registers or record* 

as may be necessary, of dock workers including any lists, registers or records of 
dock workers who are temporarily not available for dock work and whose absence 
has been approved by the Administrative Body and where circumstances so required 
removing from any register, list orTecord the name Of any listed dock worker cither 
at his ownrequest or in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme; 

( c) the employment and control of listed dock workers available for work when they are not 

otherwise employed in accordance with the Scheme; 

(d) the grouping or re-grouping of listed dock workers in accordance with the instructions 
received fromtheBoard in such groups as may bedotermined by theBOard; 

(e) the allocation of listed dock workers in each-group Who are available ferrwork to listed 

employers and for this purpose the Administrative Body shall— 

(f) be deemed to act as an agentfor theemployer, 

(it) make the fullest possible use of listed dock workers in each group ( 
(iii) keep the record of attendance at call stands or control points of listed dock workers^ 
(in) provide for the maintenance of the records of employment and earning a, 

(u) allocate listed dock workers in accordance with clause 18. 

(ri) make necessary entries in the Attendance an d Wage Cards tff the listed dock workew 
'in the pool; 

(J) (i) the collection of administrative and other charges, contribution to th e Dock Workers 
Welfare Fund or any other contribution from the listed empolyers as may be pres¬ 
cribed uilder the 'Scheme; 

(it) the collection of the listed dock workers’ constribution to the Provident Fund, 
Insurance Fund or any other Fund which may bo constituted tiitder the scheme; 

(iii) the payment as agent of the listed employer to each daily worker of all earnings 
propcrlydue to the dock worker from theemployer and tHe payment to such worker* 
of alimonies payable by the Board to those worker* in accordance'With the provisions 
of the Scheme; 

( g ) appointing, subject to the budget provision, such officers and servants from time to time 

as.may be necessary; 

( h ) making provision for training of workers as it may consider necessary. 



3924 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part IT— 


Provided that aopointment to posts the maximum salary of which exclusive of allowances 
is upto rupees three hundred per month shall be subject to clauses 7 ( k ) or 9(1 )(h) as.the case 
may be. 

(0 the keeping of proper accounts of the cost of operating the Scheme and of all receipts 
and expenses under it and making and submitting to the Board an annual report and 
audited balance-sheet; 

(j) the fram'ng of the buget annually, submitting the same to the Board on or before the 
fifteenth day of February in each year and getting it approved by the Board; 

(A) maintaining complete service records of all listed dock workers covered under 
Schedule; 

( l ) such other functions as may from time to time subject to the provisions of the Scheme, 
be assigned to it by the Board the Chairman or the Deputy Chairman. 

13. Lib mr Officer .—The Administrative Body shall appoint a Labour Officer with the approval 
of the Board, who shall carry out such functions as may be assigned to him by that Body consistent 
with the provisions of the Schemes and shall, in particular, carry out the functions veBtcd in him 
under clause 32. 

1 4 - C.'mmittees —The Board may appoint one or more Committees composed of such repre 
sentatlvcs of dock employers and dock workers to whom this Scheme applies and such other per¬ 
son or persons as may be nominated by the Board to facilitate compliance with or implementation 
of the provisions of this Scheme and may entrust to such Committee or committees such of its 
functions as it may deem fit. The Board may dissolve or reconstitute such Committee or Commit¬ 
tees from time to time as it may deem fit. 

, 15 - Listing of employers of dock workers, —(1) The Board shall maintain a list of employers of 
dock workers to whom this S cheme applies. 

(2) Every person, who is an employer of dock workers to whom this scheme applies on the 
date of commencement of the Scheme, and who applies to the Board in this behalf on or before such 
^ate as may be fixed by the Board for this purpose, shall be entitled to be listed under this Scheme, 

(3) The Board may, if It considers expedient so to do, list employers other than those covered 
by sub-clause (2). 

(4) Where the Board refuses to list an employer, It shall communicate to the person concerned 
copy of the order together with the reasons the refor; 

(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Scheme, the Board-in-meetlng may direct 
the removal of the name of a listed employer who has not transacted any work for two consecutive 
years: 

Provided that before giving any such direction, the Board shall give the employer an oppor¬ 
tunity of showing cause why the proposed direction should not be issued. 

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained In clause 15 the following classes of persons shall 
not be eligible for being listed as employers under this Scheme namely:— 

(a) persons who are not citizens of India; 

(b) firms, one or more partners of which is or are, not citizen or citizens of India; and 

(c) companies, the majority of the sharehoders whereof are not citizens of India. 

16. Listing of dock workers. —(1) Any dock worker, who has been in the employment of an 
employer to whom this Scheme applies and has worked under him for such number of days or 
Bhifts during such period as may be prescribed by the Board, shall subject to the following condi¬ 
tions be eligible for oeing listed, namely 

i) The number of workers of each class to be selected for listing shall not exceed the num¬ 
ber which the Board may determine from time to time. Selection for listing shall be 
made as far as possible, on the basis of seniority as determined by the length of service 
rendered by a worker or on such other basis as the Board may determine; provided that 
such workers shall be medically fit and Bhall not be more than 60 years of age. 

Provided ftirther that a dock worker who Is found medically unfit temporarily may be listed 
provisionally subject to the condition, that— 

(a) the ailment leading to temporary unfitness is declared as being curable within a reason¬ 

able period; 

(b) the period of provisional listing shall not exceed six months unless an extension is granted 
by the Board; and 



Sec. 3 (li)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 .3,925 


(c) if after the period or extended period of provisional listing the worker is still found unfit, 
his listing shall not be renewed. 

(ii) Only Indian citizens shall be eligible for being listed, 

(2) Workers shall be listed under this Scheme in accordance with the following procedure, 
namely— 

(i) Each eligible dock worker shall apply to the Board through his employer on or before 
such dates as may be fixed by the Board or any Committee appointed under clause 
14 for the purpose. The application shall be submitted in duplicate in the form pres¬ 
cribed by the Board, and shall be accompanied by three copies of passport size photo¬ 
graph of the worker concerned, the cost of which shall be borne by him. 

(ii) A listed employer shall not refuse to forward the application of a worker who has been in 
his employment and has worked under him for such number of days or shifts during 
such period as may be specified by the Board under sub-clauso(l); 

Provided that if any question arises whether or not a worker has been in the employment o f 
his employer and has worked under him for auc'.i number of days or shifts as may be prescribed 
by the Board, it shall be referred to such officer, authority or Committee as the Board may specify 
and the decision of such officer, authority or committee, as the caBO may be, shall be final, 

(iii) The period for which worker of a class specified in the Schedule has served on work 
relatable to that class under a particular employer shall as far as possible be recorded 
on the basis of payment of wages made to the worker previously, cither directly by the 
employer or through any employer’s agents. 

(iv) While forwarding an application of a dock worker the employer shall if he does not 
recommend the application state the reasons for which he does not recommend the 
application. 

(v) Every worker shall pay to the Board a ‘listing fee’ of twenty-five paisc on his name being 
listed. 

(vi) If the application is in order, the Board shall enter the natni of the Worker in the list 
of workers and retain one copy each of the application and the photograph for record 
and return the other copy of the application with a photograph affixed on It together 
with a photo-identity card to the worker concerned direct or to the listed employer 
through whom the application has been received, who shall hand over the same to the 
worker concerned. 

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Scheme, where the Board is of opinion that 
a dock worker has secured his listing by furnishing false information in his application or by with- 

. holding any information required there in, or where it appears that a worker has been listed Im¬ 
properly or incorrectly, the Board may direct the removal of his name from the list: 

Provided that before giving any such direction, the Board shall give him an opportunity o 
showing cause why the proposed direction should not be issued. f 

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Scheme, the Board-in-meeting may by orde r 
direct the removal permanently or for such period as nny be specified in the order, of the name of 
listed worker who does not make himself available for work for any length of time as the Board 
may decide; 

Provided that before giving any such direction the Board shall give such listed worker an 
opportunity to show cause why the proposed direction should >not be issued. 

(5) A copy of every order refusing to list a worker shall be communicated to him. 

(6) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-clause (c) of clause rz, the Board 
may also from time to time permit the listing of dock workers on a temporary basis through the 
Employment Exchange or otherwise as the Board may decile. 

. 17. Classification of workers in the list.- —(1) The Board shall arrange from time to time classi¬ 
fication of workers by categories in the list and prepare and maintain a separate sub-list of worker 
for each of the categories or sub-categories referred to in sub-clause (2). 

(2) For the time being the workers shall be divided into two broad categories as ‘B' and ‘C’ 
and they shall be classified into sub-categories as specified below. 

Provided that on fine expiry of one year from the date of enforcement of the Scheme, a review 
shall be under taken to assess the desirability of reorganizing the categories and/or improving the 
benefits attached to such categories. 



39Z6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [PXST H— 

Category ‘S' 

(i) Iron and Steel Handling Workers (Mechanical). 

(i) Tally-Clerk 
( 11 ) Maistry 
(ill) Tlndal 
(iv) Carpenter 
(y) Mazdoor 

(а) Mineral and Pig Iron Handling Workers. 

(i) Maistry 

(ii) Mazdoor 

(3) Boat Handling Workers (Export General Cargo, Bulk Import Cargo (unhooking slings) 
temporarily landed cargo not handled by the Port Trust labour and import overside delivery cargo 
all handled in Lighters] 

( I ) Malstry 

( II ) Mazdoor 

(4) Deck sweeper/hatch cleaners. 

(i) Malstry 
( 11 ) Mazdoor 

(5) Gunny Clerks. 

(б) Supervisors/receipt clerks (employed by steamer agents, stevedores, shipping agents, 
Clearing and Forwarding Agents and Mineral Handling employers). 

Category ‘C‘ 

(1) Drums loading and unloding workers and workers employed by clearing and forwarding 
agents. 

( 1 ) Maistry 
(il) Mazdoor 

(z) Bulk Rockphosphate Handling workers (including filling the bags). Bulk Sulphur Handling 
workers (including filling the bags), Bulk Rockphosphate and Sulphur slinging workers, bagged 
rockphosphate and bagged sulphur handling workers. 

( I ) Maistry 

( II ) Mazdoor 

(3) Casuals listed by the Mineral Wagon Unloading Pool. 

(i) Malstry 
(ii) Mazdoor 

(4) Goods shed workers (tarpaulins and cargo handling), casuals listed by the Iron and Steel 
Handling Pool and Iron and Steel Handling Labour (manual). 

(i) Maistry 

(ii) Mazdoor 

(5) Sampling workers. 

18. Pool of listed workers. —(1) Each sub-category of worker shall constitute a pool ofwortoers. 

(2) The listed workers In each group shall : be allotted work by rotation as far as ‘practicable. 

(3) Casual Vacancies In categories of workers higher than rrlazdoors shall be-filled by the 
panels maintain for such categories and the resultant vacancy in the lowest category shall be filled in 
-a manner decided by the Board. 

(4) The workers listed under the Scheme will not be employed unless there is a demand for 
•■particular sub^category or group. However, If'there is need for work in a particular Sub-cate- 
gory or group, wofkers of the said sub-category or'group shall be employed to tho exclusion of 
outsid labour which does not Include ships crew. 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3927 


19. Employment in shifts. —(1) Workers shall be employed in ehifta. 

(2) A worker shall not ordinarily be employed in two consecutive shifts nor shall a worker be 
employed in two consecutive shifts on each of two successive days. In no case shall a worker be 
employed in three consecutive shifts. 

( 3 ) A worker in the pool shall not be employed for more than 8 shifts in a week or 30 shift# tin 
a month. 

(4) Normally, a monthly worker shall not be employed for more than 6 shifts in a week or 27 
shifts in a month but when a worker, in the pool who has not reached the maximum limit of employ¬ 
ment defined In sub-clause(3) above is not available, a monthly worker may be employed up-to 8 
shifts in a week or 30 shifts in a month. 

(5) In special circumstances, the Chairman may relax temporarily the restrictions under sub¬ 
clauses (3) and (4) to the extent necessary. 

(6) Workers working more than one shift in a day will be entitled to the normal rate of wages 
for work in each shift. 

(7) Where work is carried on by a gang, the allotment of workers by rotation shall be by 
gangs. 

20. Service records of listed Workers, —A service record for every listed worker shaH be main¬ 
tained by the Administrative Body in a form as may be prescribed by the Board which shall contain 
among other things the complete record of disciplinary actions taken against the worker, promo¬ 
tion, commendation for good work, etc. 

21. Medical examination. —If the Administrative Body deems it necessary, a worker Bhall 
undergo at the cost of the Administrative Body, a medical examination by a Medical Officer 
appointed by the Chairman. If the worker is found permanently unfit, his name be removed from 
the list. 

22. Obligations of listed employer. —(1) Every listed employ shall be bound by the provisions 
of the Scheme. 

(2) Every listed employer shall pay to the Board such administrative charges 
as may be ftxed by the Board from time to time. 

(3) A listed employer shall not employ a worker other than a dock worker 
who has been allocated to him by the Administrative Body In accordance with 
the provisions of clause 12. 

(4) A listed employer shall in accordance with arrangements made by the 
Administrative Body submit all available information of his current and future 
labour requirements. 

(5) A listed employer shall pay to the Administrative Body in such manner 
and at such times as the Chairman may direct the amount by way of levy, admi¬ 
nistrative charges and other charges payable under sub-clause (2) and gross 
wages due to the diock workers. 

(fi) A listed employer shall keep such records as the Board may require, and 
shall produce to the Board or to such persons as may be designated by the Chair¬ 
man ppon reasonable notice all such records and any other documents of any 
kind relating to listed dock workers and to the work upon which they have been 
employed and furnish such information relating thereto as may be set out in any 
notice of direction Issued by or on behalf of the Board. 

(7) Alisted employer shall not paya listed worker anything in cash or in excess of the wage# 
normally and actually due to the worker. 

23. Obligations of Hstedworker. —(1) Each listed worker shall be deemed to have accepted the 
obligations of this Scheme. 

(2) A listed dock worker shall not offer himself for employment with any other employer on 
any day on which he is offered employment by the Administrative Body. 

(3) Alisted dock worker in the pool who is available for work shall not engage himself .for 
employment under a listed employer unless he is allocated to that employer by tie Administra¬ 
tive Body. 

(4) A listed dock worker in the pool who is available for work shall carry out directions of the 
Administrative Body and shall— 

(a) report at such call stands or control points on such days and at such times as may be 
specified by the Administrative Body; 



3928 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Past II— 


(b) accept any etnploymencin connection with dock work whether in the category or sub- 
category in which the has been listed or in any other category or sub-category for 
which heisconsideredsuitableby the AdministrativeBody. 

(5) A listed dock worker who is available for work when allocated by the Administrative 
Body for employment under a listed employer shall carry out his duties in accordance with the 
directions of such listed employer or his authorised representative or supervisor and the rules of 
the fort or place where he i s working. 

24. Suspension of supply of listed workers. —Tfalisred employer fails to make payment due 
from him under clauses 12(f)(1) and 22(5) i(i) any other amount due and payable to the Board in 
any other capacity or account, within such time as may be prescribed by the Administrative Body, 
the Administrative Body shall serve Notice on the employer to that effect that unless he pays his 
due within three days from the dare of receipt of the Notice, the supply of listed workers to him 
shall be suspended on the expiry of the notice period. Thereupon, the Administrative Body shall 
suspend the supply of listed workers to the defaulting employeruntii he pays his dues. 

25. Restriction on employment,~ No person other than a listed employer shall employ any 
worker on dock work nor shall a listed employer engage for employment or employ a worker on 
dock unless that worker is a listed worker. If, however, on any occassion the Administrative Body 
considers it necessary to employ temporarily a worker other than a listed worker, it cap do so after 
obtaining the prior approval of the Deputy' Chairman and where this is not possible, shall report 
to the Deputy Chairman within 24 hours the full circumstances under which such workers were 
employed. The Deputy Chairman shall place before the Board-in-meeting at the earliest oppor¬ 
tunity all such cases of temporary employment of workers other than listed workers approved by 
him. 

26. Chairman to evolve Schemes.~ii) The Chairman may evolve a Scheme or Schemes of 
payments to the listed workers in relations to the actual output of their work.' The Scheme or 
Schemes shall be considered by the Board in a meeting and, if adopted, shall be submitted to the 
Central Government for approval. Such a Scheme or Schemes shall come into force from a date 
which may be approved by the Central Government, Different dates may be fixed in respect of 
such Schemes governing different categories of listed workers. 

(2) If any Scheme or Schemes evolved by che Chairman is not approved by the Board-in- 
meeting the Chairman shall report the matter to the Central Government forwarding, at the same 
time, a copy of the Scheme or Schemes for the decision of the Government. The Central Go¬ 
vernment shall consider the Scheme or Schemes and the views of the members of the Board, and 
take such decision as may be appropriate. The decision of the Central Government shall he bind¬ 
ing ontheBoard. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-clauses(i) and (2) the Central Government 
may, determine all or any of the matters referred to in the said sub-clauses on the recommenda¬ 
tion of any body set up by it and any such decision of the Central Government shall be final and 
binding ontheBoard. 

27. Holidays. —Each listed worker shall be entitled in a year to 5 holidays with pay at such 
rates as may be prescribed by the Board. 

28. Attendance allowance _-Subject to other conditions of the Scheme a worker in the pool 

in ‘B ’ category who is available for work but for whom no work is found shall be paid attendance 
allowance at the rate of Rs. 175 P.S. inclusive of dearness allowance per day for all the days 
during a calendar month he attended for work as directed by the Administrative Body provided 
that the Board may allow payment of attendance allowance at such higher rate not exceeding rupees 
two as it may deem necessary. 

29. Disappointment money. -When a worker in the pool present himself for work and for any 
reason the work for which the has attended cannot commence or proceed and no alternative Work 
can be found for him and he is relieved within two hours of his attending for work, he shall be 
entitled to the disappointment money, equal to half the wage inclusive of dearness allowance app¬ 
ropriate to the category to which he belongs. A worker detained for more than two hours shall 
be paid full time rate wages inclusive of dearness allowance- 

30. Provident Fund and Gratuity. —The listed workers in ‘B’ category shall be eligible for 
Contributory provident Fund and Gratuity with effect from the date the Board may fix. The 
Board shall frame Rules for the purpose. 

31. Standing Orders. —The Administrative Body shall frame the draft standing orders for 
certification under the provisions of the Industrial Employment(Standing Orders) Act, 1946 ar.d 
before submission Qf the same to the certifying officer, shall submit it to the Deputy Chairman 
who will place before the Board along with his remarks for approval. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3929 


32 . Disciplinary procedure. —(1) Their Personnel Officer on receipt of information, 
whether on complaint or otherwise that a listed employer has failed to carryout the provi¬ 
sions of this Scheme may after investigating the matter— 

(i) givehima warning in writing; Or 

(ii) if in hi* opinion, ahigher penalty is merited, report the case to the Deputy Chairman: 

Proyided that more than one breach of the provisions of the Scheme shall in 
any event be reportedto the Deputy Chairman. 

(.2) The Deputy Chairman shall then cause such further investigation he made as he may 
deem nt and take any of the following steps as regards that employer, that is to say, he may— 

(a) censure the employer and record the censure in his record sheet; or 

(b) subject to the approval of the Board and after one month’s notice in writing to the 

employer, direct that the name of the employer shall be removed from the list of em¬ 
ployers for such period as may be determined by the Board or permanently if the 
Board so determines. 

(3) A listed dock worker in the pool who fails to comply with any of the provisions of 
the Scheme, or commits any act of indiscipline or misconduct, may be reported against in 
writing to the Labour Officer. The Labour Officer after investigating the matter may give him 
a warning in writing or suspend him for a period not exceeding seven days. 

(4) Where, in a case reported to him under sub-clause (3) the Labour Officer is of opinion 
that the act of indiscipline or misconduct is so serious that the worker should not be allowed to 
work any longer, the Labour Officer may, pending investigation of the matter, suspend the worker 
for a period not exceeding seven days and report immediately to the Deputy Chairman, who after 
preliminary investigation of the matter shall pass orders thereon whether the worker should, pend¬ 
ing final orders remain suspended or not provided that the total period of such suspension shall 
not exceed a period of three months. 

(j) Wiier: the Deputy Chairman comes to the decision that the order of suspension of the 
worker pending investigation into the charge of indiscipline or misconduct as the case may be, 
ought not to have been made, the worker snail be entitled to such payments from the Board in 
respect of the period of his vnnension ai the Alninistrative Body mav certify that the worker 
would have received, had he not been suspended. 

(6) Where in th; opinion of the Labour Office-, higher punishment than that provided in 
sub-clause (3) is merited, he shall report the case to the Dep uty Chairman. 

(7) O 1 receipt of th: wirtten report from the Labour Officer under Bub-clause (6) or from the 
A i ninistrative Body that a listed dock worker in the pool has failed to comply with any of the pro¬ 
vision oF the Scheme or hat comrrtteed an act of indiscipline or misconduct or has consistently 
failed to produce the standard output or has violated the provisions of the Scheme more than 
once or has been inefficient in any other manner the Deputy Chairman may make or cause to be 
made such further investigation as he may deem fit, and thereafter take any of the following steps, 
as regards the worker concerned, that is to say, he may impose any of the following penalties: 

(a) give him a warning in writing; 

(b) suspend him for a period not exceeding 3 months; 

(c) terminate his services after giving 14 days notice or 

(d) dismiss him. 

(8) Before any action is taken under this clause the person concerned shall be given an oppor¬ 
tunity to show cause why the proposed action should not be taken against him. A copy of the final 
order shall also be communxated to the persons concerned. 

(9) The A 1 n'ti strative Body shall be informed simultaneously about the action taken under 
this clause. 

33. Appsilsby employers. —(1) A listed employer who is aggrieved by an order under clause 
32 may appeal— 

(a) to the Deputy Chairman, ifthe order was made by the Personnel Officer, or 

(b) to the Chairman if the order was made by the Deputy Chairman. 

(i) A-dock .employer who has been refused listing under clause 15 may appeal to, the Central 
Government. 

(3) Every appeal referred to in sub-caluses (1) and (2) shall be in writing and preferred with¬ 
in 14-days of the order appealed against and the order passed on such appeal shall be final: 



300 Tfffi GAZETTE OF TNDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHAEfRA 9. TWO [ftiltT Tl— 


Provided rtiatt the appellate 'authority may, for reasons to be recorded, admit an appeal pre¬ 
ferred after the expity of 14'days. 

34. Appeals by Worker s.-^{i) A listed worker in the pool, who is aggrieved by an order passed by 
the Labour Officer under clause 32(3) may appeal to the Deputy Chairman, and when the original 
order has been passedbythe Deputy Chairmanthe apeal can’be preferred to the Chairman. 

(2) A dotffcwotfker, who has been refuscdltsrlng under clause 16may appeal to the Board. 

(3) Every appeal under sub-clauses (1) and (2) shall be in writing and preferred within 14 days 
of the receipt of the order appealed against and the orderpassod onsuch appeal shall be final: 

Provided that the appellate authority may for reasons to be recorded, admit an appeal pre¬ 
ferred after the expiry of 14 days. 

(4) An appelhurt shall hot be*mittedt»» be represented byu legal practitioner-before the appe¬ 
llate authority but he shall be entitled to be represented by a representative of the'registered trade 
union of which he is a member or by a listed worker, 

35. Application of the Scheme to Visakhapatnam Port Trust and Food Departments. —Not¬ 
withstanding the non-application of the Scheme-to the dock workers employed by Visakhapatnam 
.Port Trust and Food Department so long as they are not listed here under, the said employers shall 
not draw their additional.requirement of workers from any source other than the pool of listed 
workers and for this purpose the obligations of listed employers as laid down in this Scheme mutatis 
mutandis apply to thom. 

36. Penalties .—A contravention of clause 2f shall be punishable with fine .not exceeding two 
bandied rupees-in respect of a first contravention or five hundred rupees in respect of any subse¬ 
quent contravention. 


Schedule 

(Ramis of'dock workers to whom'the Scheme applies: 

Category "fl* 

1. Iron and Steel Handling Workers (Mechanical) 

(i) Tally -Cleik 
(ii) Maistry 
.(iii’) Tindal 
(Itf) Carpenter 
(v) Mazdoor 

а. Mineral "and Pig Iron Handling"Workers 

(i) Maistry 

(ii) Ma2door 

3. Boat Handling Workers [Export General Cargo Bulk Import Cargo (unhooking slings) 
temporarily landed cargo not handled.by the Port Trust labour anlimport overside delivery cargo 
all handled in lighters], 

(i) Maistry 

(ii) Maxdnor 

4. Dock sweepers/hatch Clfcaners 

(i) Maistry 
fli) Maedoor 

j. Gunny Clerks." 

б. Supervisors/receipt clerks (employed by steamer agents, stevedores, shipping agents, 
Cleaming and Forwarding Agents and Mineral Handling employers). 

Category ‘C’ 

1, Drums loading and unloading workers artd workers employed by clearing and forwarding 

agents 

g(i)-Maistry 

:(li) iNtedOCr 



Seq. 3 (ii) ■ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , EWrb/BH-ADRA % 1890 393,1 


2. Bulk RockpboBphate Handling workers (including filling the bags)) Bulk Sulphur H[idling 
workers (including filling the bags). Bulk Rockphosphate and Sulphur slinging workers,bagged 
rockphospnate and bagged sulphur handling workers, 

(f> Maistry 
(il). Mazdoor 

3. Casuals listed by the Mineral "Wagon Unloading Pool. 

(i) Maistry 

(ii) Mazdoor 

4. Goods shed workers (tarpaulins and' cargo handling),.casuals, listed, by the- Iron and. Steal 
Handling Pool anil Iron and SteH Handling labour (manual), 

(i) Masitzy 

(ii) Mazdoor 

5. Sampling,workers. 

[No. sj6/ni/68rF«c, U-l 


New Delhi, the 20 th August 196S 

SO agsjft—la exercise of the-powers oopferred by sub-sections (3.) and (41) of, section.5A 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (9 of 194ft), the Centesl 
Government hereby appoints the following persons as members of the Mormugao Dock Labour 
Board, and nominates Shri B. K. Advani as Chairman.thereof, namely:— 


Members representing the Central Government 

(1) Shri B. K. Advani, Officiating Chaicman, Mormugao Port Trust, Mormugao. 

(2) The Deputy Chairman, Mormugao Dock Lahour Board, Mormugao. 

(3) The Labour Commissioner, Government of Goa, Panjim. , 

(4) The A»si»tarit LabaurConimisslaner(Central),\'aacO'di-Gania- 


Members representing theDockWorkers 


(1) Shri MohartNair . . T . 

(2) . ShriRajcndzaKumar Singh V . 

( 3 ) Shri GoraldPorcira . . J 

. Representatives of the GoadDocfc 
. . . Labour Union. 

. . . Representative of the Mormugao 

Port, Dock and Transport 
Workers’Union. 

(4) Shri. Say ad GausPir, 

. . . Representative of the Transport 

ik Dock Workers’ Union. 

Members representing the employers of dock workers andshipping computes 

(1) Shri M- da Lima-Loitaa‘1 . 

(2) Shri V. S. Manorkar V. 

(3) Shri A. V. Prabhu , J. 

. Representatives, of the Mormugao 
. . . Stevedores’'Association. 

. , . Representative of the Indian 

National Steamship Owners’ 
Association. 

(4) Shri-J. H.Thrftker . 

. . . Representative of the Mormugao 

Steamship Agents’ Association 


[No. 57/11/67-Fac. II]. 


ORDERS- 

/[few Delhi, the 14 th August 1968 

SLO. 2931.. —Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to Messrs Ambassador Steamships Private Limited, Cochin 
and their workmen, in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 



3932 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


And whereas, the Central Government Considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of tho powers conferred by section yA and clause (d) of sub-section 
(x) of section io, of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby 
constitutes and Industrial Tribunal of which Shri M. Tajammal Hussain shall be the Presiding 
Officer, with headquarters at Madras and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal, 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Messrs Ambassador Steamships Private Limited, Steamer Agents, 
Cochin-3 was justified in denying employment to Shri Donald Clements, Assistant Supervisor on 
board the ships from the 23rd September, 1967 ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 29(28)/68-LRIII.] 


S. 0 .2931.—Whereas the employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their 
workmen represented by the Bombay Port Trust General Workers’ Union, Bombay have jointly 
applied to the Central Government for reference of an industrial dispute that exists between them 
to an Industrial Tribunal in respect of the matter set forth in the said application and reproduced 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas, the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying represent the 
majority of each party; 

- Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 10 
of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby refers the said 
dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


Schedule 

Whether the demand that Sorvashri Ismail Hassan Kirkirc, Ali Khot Sahob and Chandra- 
kant S. Sawant, Lascars, Port Department, Flotilla, who had volunteered to be appointed as 
Stokers against tho vacancies caused by tho termination of services of Pakistan Nationals 
should be placed on the seniority list of stokers below the substitute stokers from the ‘A’ 
list, who were absorbed in tho vacancies of stoker but above tho substitute stokers from 
tho ‘B’ list, ,who were also absorbed in the vacancies of stoker, is justified ? If so, what 
should be their respective position in the seniority list of stokers in the said Department ? 

[No. 28(62)/68-LR III.] 


S. 0 .2933.—Whereas the employers in relatipn to the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay and their 
workmen represented by the Bombay Port Trust General Workers’ Union, Bombay have jointly 
applied to the Central Government for reference of an industrial dispute that exists between them 
toan IndustrialTribunalinrespcctofthcmattersetforthinthesaid application and reproduced in 
the Schedule hereto annexed 5 

And whereas, the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying represent 
the majority Of each party; 

Now, therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section to of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute 
for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

Schedule 

Whether the demand that the staff in the following categories of the Marine Oil Terminal 
establishment working at Butcher Island should -not-be rotated at regular intervals with the staff 
of the corresponding categories of that establishment working at Trombay Manifold is justified ? 

Electrician, Grade I and Grade II, 

Wircman; and 

Assistant Wireman. 

[No. 28 ( 6 " 3 )/ 68 -LR III.] 

C. RAMDAS, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3933 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 14th August 1968 

S.O. 3934.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, 
in the matter of an application under Section 33A of the said Act from Shri Sachida Singh C/o 
Coal Workers’ Union, Bhurkunda Branch, Post Office Bhurkunda, Hazaribagh, (Bihar), which 
was received by the Central Goverment on the 8th August, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL COURT AT 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Complaint No. 3 of 1967 
(Arising out of present Reference No. 62 of 1967) 


Parties : 

Shri Sachida Singh, C/o Coal Workers Union, Bhurkunda Branch, P.O. Bhurkunda, 
Hazaribagh, (Bihar ),—Complainant 


Vs. 


Deputy Supdt. of Collieries, Sayal ‘D’ Colliery, N.C.D.C. Ltd., 
P.O. Sayal, Hazaribagh, (Bihar). —Opp. Party 


Present : 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Complainant: .... Shri Braj Kishore Prasad, Advocate. 

For the Opposite Party: .... Shri Jagdish Prasad, Advocate. 

Dhanbad, dated the 3 1st July, 1968 

AWARD 

Shri Sachida Singh was employed as a Shotllrer by the National Coal Development Corpora¬ 
tion Limited (shortly called the N.C.D.C.). He filed this complaint before this Tribunal on the 
nth October, 1965. It was registered as Complaint No. 18 of 1965. By the Ministry’s Order 
No. 8/25/67-LRII dated the 19th September, 1967, it was transferred to the Jabalpur Tribunal, 
where it was numbered as Complaint No. 32 of 1967. The Complaint has now been re-trans¬ 
ferred to this Tribunal under the Ministry’s order N0.8/25/67-LRII, dated 24-11-67. It has 
now been numbered as Complaint No. 3 of 1967. 

2. The complainant’s case is that he is a permanent employee of the N.C.D.C. Ltd., at Sayal 
‘D’Colliery and that he is an active member of the Coal Workers’Union, He was charge-sheeted 
by the Deputy Supdt. of Collieries, Sayal ‘D’ Colliery, for alleged negligence of duty and mis¬ 
conduct. His case further is that a so-called enquiry was held by an Enquiry Committee consti¬ 
tuted for the purpose and that, as a result of its findings, the Deputy Supdt, of collieries dismissed 
him from service with effect from 21-9-1965. He has alleged that principles of natural justice 
were not observed in the course of enquiry, that the opposite party has not paid him one month 
wages as requires under the proviso to section 33(2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act and that 
the N.C.D.C. Ltd., did not file an application for approval of his dismissal under section 33(a)(b) 
as it should have done. He has stated that an application for approval waB necessary because of 
the pendency of reference No. 105 of 1965 (Order No. 2/70/64-LRII). 

3. The allegations against Sachida Singh are that, while has was on duty in the 1st shift on the 
12th March, 1965 as a shot fircr, a bunch of electric detonators was found to have been loaded with 
coal on the running conveyor belt of the 14th West Level District in Semana incline in which he was 
on duty. Shri A. K. Dutta, chargeman, was making inspection and he discovered the detonators 
loaded on the running belt. He immediately picked them up and sent them to the colliery Mana¬ 
ger, Shri A. N. Singh, through Shri Jhaman Kahar, one of the belt cleaners. After a few minutes, 
Shri Sachida Singn came to the Manager, Shri A. N Singh and told him that he did not know how 
his detonators were loaded on the belt and that those detonators were with him (the Manager) 



3934 THB GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


He then requested the Manager to make over the detonators to him (Sachida Singh) and the 
Manager accordingly handed them over to him. In the charge which was framed against Sachida 
Singh, it was stated: 

“Had the detonators not been detected on the conveyor by another person, the conse¬ 
quences might have been very serious in as much as the machinery and belt conveyor 
might have been damaged due to blast of detonatorB and the life of the persons in or 
about would have also been in danager. Such throwing of explosive materials on the 
belt conveyor indicates utter negligence on your part in performance of your duty and 
is also fraught with danager to human lives and property and amountB to serious mis¬ 
conduct on your part”. 

4. The case of the N.C.D.C. Ltd,, is that an enquiry committee was regularly constituted, 
that it held an enquiry into the chargcshcet in accordance with natural justice and that it found the 
alleged delinquent to be guilty of the charge framed against him. On the basis of its findings, 
the Deputy Superintendent of Collieries has dismissed him fromi service. 

5. The case of the Corporation further is that Sachida Singh was not a workman concerned 
in the dispute which led to reference No. 105 of 1965. On this ground, Shri Jagdish Prasad, 
Advocate, has taken the preliminary objection on behalf of the Corporation that this complaint is 
not legally maintainable. 

6 . I consider it proper to decide the preliminary objection. I had a similar point to decide 
in Shri Tej Bahadur, Watchman, Jamadoba Colliery versus Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba 
(Complaint No. 15 of 1966). In my award in that case, I referred to the decisions of the Supreme 
Court in New India Motors (P) Ltd, versus Morris (K.T.)—1960 (I) L.L.J. 551 ; Digwadih 
Colliery versus Ramji Singh—1964 (II) L.L.J, 143 and Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd., versus D. R. 
Singh—1963 (II) L.L.J. 122. All these three decisions were considered by the Patna High Court 
in New India Sugar Mills Ltd., Darbhanga versus Krishnaballabh Jha and others—1967 (II 
L.L.J. 210. In the last-mentioned case, their Lordships have laid down:— 

“.there must be some common feature in the nature of the dispute in the two cases 

which should serve as a connecting link thereby rendering the workmen in the later 
case also workmen concerned in the dispute in the earlier case. The mere fact that the 
same union had taken up the cause of the two workmen, or else that by virtue of 
S. i8(3)(d) of the Act all workmen may be bound by the award in the earlier 
disputes, may not suffice, unless there is some other common feature in the two 
disputes as mentioned above". 

J . The workman concerned in reference No. 105 of 1965 which was subsequently registered 
s Tribunal as Reference No. 62 of 1967 was Shri Ramendra Kumar. The dispute was des¬ 
cribed in the schedule given in the reference in that case as follows:— 

Schedule 

“Whether the Services of Shri Ramendra Kumar, Shotflrer, were terminated, by the manage¬ 
ment of the Sayal ‘D’ Colliery of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited, 
for unsatisfactory work during his probationary period and if not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled ?” 

8. Sachida Singh, the workman concerned in this case, has been a permanent employee of the 
N.C.D.C. There is no question of his service having been terminated during probationary period. 
He is alleged to have been guilty of serious negligence in letting detonators entrusted to him to go 
with coal on a running conveyor belt. * There was no question in reference No. 62 of 1967 about 
such negligence or misconduct. All that Mr. Braj Kishore Prasad, Advocate, who appeared for the 
workman, was able to urge was that Ramendra Kumar was a shotflrer and so was Sachida Singh. 
I do not think that this is a sufficient link or a common feature which can be said to make Sachida 
Singh concerned in the principle which could be laid down in reference No. 62 of 1967. Besides, 
as. I have already pointed out, Sri Ramendra Kumar was said to be a probationer whereas Sachida 
Singh was admittedly a permanent employee. 

9. In the circumstances mentioned above, I hold that Sri Sachida Singh was not concerned 
in the dispute which arose for adjudication in reference No. 62 of 1967. L therefore, agree that 
this complaint is not legally maintainable. It is, therefore rejected. I give my award accordingly 
Let it be subrained to the Central Government. 


(SdJ Kamla Sahaj, 
Presiding Officer 


[No. 2/70/64-LR. II.] 





Sue. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3935 


New Delhi, the ijth August 1968 

S.O. 2935.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial ^Tribunal, Dhanbad, 
in the Industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the Ena Colliery of Messrs North 
West Coal Company Limited, Post Office Dhansar (Dhanbad) and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 7th August, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CUAf 
LABOUR COURT No. 1, DHANBAD. 

In the matter of a reference under section io(i)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Reference No. 6 of 1968 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to Ena Colliery of M/s. North West Coal Co. Ltd., P.O. Dhansar 
District Dhanbad. 

Vs . 

Their Workmen. 


Present : 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances ; 

For the Employers —Shri S. S. Mukherjee, Advocate, 

For the'Workmen —Shri B. Lai, Advocate, 

State Bih.ar Industry—C oal. 


Dhanbad, dated the 2nd August, 1968. 

AWARD 

The Central Government has, by its order No. z/iai 'Sy-LRII dated the 16th January, 1968, 
made this reference to this Tribunal for adjudication of the dispute which is mentioned in the 
schedule below : 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Ena Colliery of Messrs North West Coal Company Limited 
Post Office Dhansar, (Dhanbad) were justified in terminating the services of their work¬ 
man Shri Mani Raj Nonia, Dusting Mazdoor, with effect front the 12th July, 1967 ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?” 

2. The parties have entered into a compromise and they have just filed a compromise petition 
which has been signed by the Advocates of the parties. Officials of the Company and the concerned 
workmen are also present in Court. 

3. The compromise substantially is that Mani Raj Nonia would be reinstated and that for that 
purpose he should present himself in the colliery on or before the 5th August, 1968. For the 
period from the 12th July, 1967 up to the date of his reinstatement, he would be treated as being 
on leave without wages for the purpose of continuity of his service. In my opinion, the compro¬ 
mise is fair. I accept it. 

4. The reference is disposed of in terms of the compromise petition which will form part of 
the award. Let the award to be submitted to the Central Government. 

Sd/- Kamla Sahai, 
President Officer, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUAf 
LABOUR COURT No. 1, DHANBAD 

Reference no. 6 of 1968. 

Employers in relation to Ena Colliery. 

And 

Their workmen. 



3936 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 


The humble petition on behalf of the patty above named. Most respectfully showeth : 

(i) That without prejudice to the respective contention of the parties contained in their writ¬ 
ten statement the dispute has been amicably settled on following grounds : 

(a) That Shri Mani Raj Notiia, the workman concerned will be reinstated in his original 
job of a Dusting Mazdoor. He must report for his duty latest by 5-8-1968. 

(1 b ) That the period from 12-7-1967 to the date of his actual reinstatement will be considered 
as if he was on leave without wages for the continuity of his service only. 

(c) That this settlement is effected as a special case and it will not create a precedence in 
similar other cases. 

id) That the parties will bear the own respective cost of the proceeding. 

It is therefore prayed that the present settlement may kindly be recorded and award may be 
passed in terms thereof. 

For Workmen : For Employers : 

(Sd). B. Lal, (Sd.) S. S. Muxherjee, 

Advocate, Advocate 

Dated 2nd August , 1968. 

[No. 2/121/67-LR. II.J 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 14th August 1968 

s.0.2936.—Whereas the Central Government ib of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the management of Sanctoria Hospital of Messrs. Bengal 
Coal Company Limited Post Office Dishergarh, District Burdwan, and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And Whereas ’the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication; 

Now, Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section io of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the '.Central Government Industrie' Tribunal Calcutta 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act." 

Schedule 

Whether the management of the Sanctoria Hospital owned by Alessrs Bengal Coal Company 
Limited, Post Office Dishergarh, District Burdwan was justified in dismissing Miss. Madhur. 
Mazumdar, female Nurse from service with effectfrom the 1st of June T968. If not> to wha T 
relief is she entitled ? 

IN0.6/67/68-LR.II.)] 


New Delhi , the 17th August 1968 

S.O. 2937.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in rehtion to the management of Khas Jecnagora Colliery of Alessrs 
Khas Jecnagora Coal Company Private Limited, Post Office. Khas Jecnagora, District Dhanbad 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And wherea, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal (No. 3), Dhanbad, constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act, 



Sec. 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGETST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3937 


Schedule 

Whether the management of Khas Jeenagora Colliery, Post Office Khas Jeenagora, District 
Dhanbad, is justified in stopping Sarvashri Mahabir Mahato, Bhiman Mahato, Sibu Bhuia, Keflo 
Bhuia and Shivlal Kewat, from work with effect from the 2Jth December, 1967 ? If not, to 
what relief are these workmen entitled ? 


[No. 2/126/68-LRII.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 

New Delhi, the 14th August, 1968. 

S-O- 2938—In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Section 3 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (No. 44 of 1954), the Central 
■Government hereby appoints Shri S. K. Soni as Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of 
performing the functions assigned to such officers by or under the said Act with effect from 
1st July, 1968. 

[No.8(3)AGZ/67.] 

A. G.VASWANI, 
Settlement Commissioner (A) & Ex- 
Officio Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 27 thjuly, 1968 

S.O. 2939.—Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary in the public 
interest that lor the transport of Petroleum between Barauni Refinery in Bihar State and Kanpur 
in Uttar Pradesh State, pipeline should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for 
the purpose of laying such pipeline, it is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land of village 
Kurhwa of Tahsil Kanpur, District Kanpur described in the schedule annexed hereto. 

2. Now, therefore, in cxcercisc of the powers conferred by sub-Bcction (i) of section 3 of the 
Petroleum pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 (SO of 1962) the Central 
Government hereby declares its intention, to acquire the right of user the rein. 

3. Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date of this notification 
object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Authority, Post Box 58, 
Allahabad. Every person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes 
to be heard in person or by legal practitioner. 


State—U ttar Pradesh 

Schedule 

Tahsil : Kanpur 

District : Kanpur 

Village 

Survey No. 

Extent B-B-B- 

Kurhwa . 

. 922 A 

0-13-4 


[No. 28( 5 )/68-IOC(i)J 


S.O. 2940.—Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary in the 
Public interest that for transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery in Bihar State and Kanpur 
in Uttar Pradesh State Pipelines should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and that for 
the purpose of laying such pipeline it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in Land of tahsil 
Chaff, District Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh State described in the schedule annexed hereto. 

2. Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 of the 
Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962) the Central 
Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the right of user therein. 




393 ® T H E GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


, , 3 < Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date of this notification 
Alt C i aying 0f the P le P. line "nd" die land to the Competent Authority at Post Box 58, 

uananad. every person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he washes 
to be heard m person or by a legal practitioner, 

Schedule 


State : Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil : Chall 


District : Allahab ad 


Village 

Survey No. 

Extent 

B-B-B 

1. Saiyad Sarawan 

2023 

0-I-I5 


2024 

0-2-10 


2121 

0-0-5 


2125 

O-O-19 


3440 

0-3-10 

2. Manaurl . . 

114 

0-0-10 


185 

0-2-18 

3. Kosawan. 

50 

0-0-5 


51 

0-13-0 


52 

0-0-10 

4. Kasari Masari 

X199 

0-0-5 


[No. 28(5)/68-IOC) (ii).] 


S-O- 2941. —whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary in the public 
interest that for tranport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery in Bihar State and Kanpur in 
Uttar Pradesh State piplines should be laid by the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., and that for the 
purpose of laying such pipeline it is necessary to acquire the Right of User in Land of Tahsil Mirza- 
pur. District Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh State described in the schedule annexed hereto. 

2. Now, therefore, in excercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 3 of the 
Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962) the Central 
Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the right of uses therein. 

3. Any person interested in the said land may within 21 days from the date of this notification, 
object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the Competent Authority, Post Box 58, Allaha¬ 
bad. Every person making such an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes to be 
heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 


Schedule 


State : Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil : M tz apur 


District : Mirzapur 


Village 


Survey No. Extent 

B-B-B 


Basahi 


229 

276 

282/3 

284/1 

287 

290/1 

291 

298/1 


O-O-IO 

0-0 -10 

0-1-5 

0-2-10 

0-2-10 

0-2-5 

0-2-0 

0-2-0 


[No. 28(5)/<58-IOC-(m).] 

P. P. GUPTA, Under Secy, 




iEC. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 31 . 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3 y 39 

OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, M.P. AND VIDARBHA 

Central Excises 
Nagpur , the 9th August 1968 

S.O, 2912 .—This Collectorale Notification No. 4 / 1963 -Central Excise, dated the 1 st 
June, 1968 is hereby cancelled. 

[No. 5 / 1968 .] 
VIPIN MANEKLAL, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE, POONA 

Central Excises 


Poona, the 11 lh July 1968. 

S.O. 2943 .—In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rule 173-H of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, 1 hereby prescribe the procedures as mentioned in Annexure A 
appended which shall be followed by every assessee working under the Self Removal 
Procedure as laid down in Chapter VIT-A of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, for retaining 
in or bringing into bis factory or warehouse, the goods on which duty has been paid, 
for the purposes mentioned below: 

(i) Goods received/relained for use in the manufacture of other goods in the 

factory, or 

(ii) goods returned to the factory for being remade, refined, reconditioned, repaired 

or subjected to any similar process in the factory; or 

(iii) after payment of duty the goods cannot immediately be removed from the 

factory due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the assessee, 

such as non-availability of railway wagon, breakdown of carriers etc.; or 

(iv) when goods cleared on payment of duty are brought back into the factory 

due to sudden suspension of booking on railways; or 

(v) goods retained in or brought into the factory for test, studying designs, method 

ol construction etc.; or 

(vi) goods are required to be stored in the factory for retail sale or for issue as 

complimentary gifts or for repacking into packages so as to suit the re¬ 
quirements of individual customers. 


Annexure A 

(i) Goods received/retained for use in (he manufacture of other goods in the factory_ 

1, The assessee should notify to the Superintendent of Central Excise having jurisdic¬ 
tion over the factory immediately after the goods are received or to be retained into the 
factory, 

2. The goods should be presented for inspection/examination by the Central Excise 
officer deputed for the purpose, with the bill of entry (in respect of imported excisable 
goods) or A.R.l or gate pass under Self Removal Procedure in respect of indigenous 
excisable goods. 


3 . The storage place should be separate and distinct from the main factory and 
approved store-room for non-duty paid goods and shall be declared to and approved by 
the Superintendent, Central Excise concerned. 



3940 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 31, I 968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 [Part II— 


4 , The assessee should maintain a record in the following proforma showing details 
of the goods retained/received, disposed of etc. 


Date 


Description Opening Receipts/Retained 

of goods balance — - -- - ---■ Total 

A.R. i/Bill of entry Quantity 
No. and date or gate- 
pass No. and date 


I 


2 


3 4 5 6 


Issues. 

Signature of Signature of - Closing Remarks.. 

manufacturer. C. Ex. officer. No. & date of gate- Quantity balance 

pass/Dly. note etc. 


12 


5 . The stocks and account shall be open to inspection by any Central Excise officer 
at all times. 

(ii) Goods returned to tho factor for being remade, refined, reconditioned, re¬ 
paired or subjected to any similar process in the factory:— 

(a) When duty paid goods except (i) Electric Fans, Electric Batteries, Electric Bulbs, 
Tyres and Tubes, Internal Combustion Engines, Electric Motors, W.R. Sets, Refrigerating 
and Air Conditioning appliances, Cement, Woollen Fabrics, Sugar are returned for being 
remade, refined, reconditioned or subjected to any similar process in the factory:— 

( 1 ) The assessee must notify to the Superintendent of Central Excise having jurisdiction 
over his factory immediately after receipt of the goods into the factory. The goods should 
be stored separately till these are inspected by the Central Excise Officer. 

( 2 ) The goods shall be presented for inspection and if necessary for sampling by the 
Central Excise Officer deputed for the purpose, who will examine and identify the duty 
paid goods with the relative clearance documents before they are taken into stock. For 
this purpose the said Central Excise Officer will verify that the goods as originally 
issued from the factory, have not been tampered with or made use of in any way 
and tho smallest packages meant for retail sale, except those few which may have been 
opened for sampling arc intact and unopened. 

Collateral evidence available with the assessee e.g., correspondence with the buyer re¬ 
garding rejection of such goods, reports about assessment of damage by assessors, etc. 
shall also be produced before the Central Excise Officer to satisfy him about the bonafides 
of such re-entry. Where some or all of the unit packages had been opened before return 
of the consignments, identity of the goods returned shall also be established with reference 
to such collateral evidence. Wherever there are markings on containers which are des¬ 
cribed either in the clearance documents or in other accounts of the assessee all such records 
shall be produced before the Central Excise Officer to facilitate identification. 





3<il)l .THE GAZETTE;OE INDIA : AUGUST 3liT96*v®HABRA 9, 1890 3941 


( 3 ) A detailed account of the returned goods‘and the process to which they are sub¬ 
jected after their return to the factory shall be kept by the assessee in the R.G. 1 pres¬ 
cribed under Chapter V 1 I-A of the Central Excise Rules, separate pages being set apart 
in the said records for this purpose. 

( 4 ) The record so maintained shall be open to inspection by any Central Excise 
Officer at all times. 

(b) Ramaged Sugar/Cement brought back to the Factory for Refining, Reprocessing 
etc.:— 

( 1 ) The assessee shall inform the Superintendent of Central Excise having jurisdiction 
over the factory immediately after receipt of the consignment into the factory. The 
consignment should be stored separately till it is inspected by the Central Excise officer. 

( 2 ) The Central Excise Officer deputed for the purpose will weigh the consignment so 
received into the factory, draw representative sample, prepare the usual test memo and 
forward the samples to the Chemical Examiner for ascertaining the recoverable Sugar/ 
Cement. 

( 3 ) On receipt of the test report from the Chemical Examiner the Asstt, Collector 
will intimate to the Superintendent of Central Excise concerned the quantity of goods 
permitted to be delivered free of duty from the factory against the damaged goods brought 
into the factory. 

( 4 ) The Superintendent of Central Excise concerned on receipt of orders from the 
Asstt. Collector will apprise the assessee of the result of the chemical analysis and will 
permit a quantity equivalent to the recoverable quantity as determined by the Chemical 
Examiner without payment of duty, 

( 5 ) The assessee shall maintain a detailed account of the damaged goods received 
and the processes to which the goods are subjected at the factory in the following form: 


Date of entry of damaged 
Sugar/Cement 

No. of 
packages 

Description of goods S, No. of Total 

packages Qty. 

entered 

Processes 
tp which 
subjected 

I 

2 

3 4 5 

6 




Quantity Permissible qty. for Date of Quantity' Signature Balance Remarks 


recoverable 

delivery free of duty reissue 
against the Qty. in 
column 7 (as intima¬ 
ted by Supdt. Cen¬ 
tral Excise) 

issued 
against 
Col. 8 

of 

licensee 


7 

8 9 

10 

HU 

12 13 


(c) Electric Batteries, Fans and Electric Bulbs, Tyres, Tubes, Internal Combustion 
Engines, Electric Motors, W.R. Sets, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Appliances brought 
into the factory for repair, reconditioning, etc:— 

( 1 ) The assessee must notify to the Superintendent of Central Excise having jurisdiction 
over the factory immediately after receipt of the goods into the factory. The goods 
should be stored separately, till these are inspected by the Central Excise Officer. 







3942 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9 . 1890 ;Part II— 


( 2 ) The goods so received shall he stored in separate place specified for the purpose 
of repairing, reconditioning etc., shall as far as possible be undertaken in a separate seclicn 
us distinct from manufacturing section. Where it is done in the manufacturing section 
itself, prior intimation should be given to the Supdt. of Central Excise concerned. 


( 3 ) The assessee shall pay duty on excisable parts used for repairing, reconditioning 
etc. in the usual manner at the time of removal of excisable parts before utilising them 
for repairs, 

( 4 ) All removal of repaired goods shall take place under cover of separate gale 
passes maintained for this purpose. 

( 5 ) A detailed account of the returned goods shall be kept by the assessee in the 
following form: 


Receipt 

Date-----—■——-Quantity Signature of the 

Description of goods Brand name with or number manufacturer 
received identifying marks received 

as far as possible 


i 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Details of repairs/reconditioning Issues 

— - — . . ... — - - -Initials Remarks 

Description of ex- Amount of duty Date of G.P. No. ofmanu- 

cisable parts used paid with No. & reissue Sc date facturer 

date of gate pass or 
A.R.I 


6 


7 


8 9 io n 


(6) The manufacturer shall remove the goods after repair/reconditioning within 1 
month of the date of receipt into the factory; but the time limit shall be extended by the 
Supdt. of Central Excise to 3 months subject to the condition that the No. of such 
batteries/fans so brought into the factory for repair/reconditioning does not exceed at 
any one time 1 per cent of the annual production of the assessee. This limit shall be 
relaxed to 5 per cent in the case of Electric Motors, Electric Batteries and Electric Fans. 
In case of Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Appliances, Electric Motors, I.C. Engines, 
Electric Fans and Electric Batteries, the normal period for removal will be 3 months ins¬ 
tead of 1 month. In deserving cases extension upto 9 months will be granted by the 
Superintendent and beyond that period by the Collector. 


(d) Goods returned to the factory for being remade, refined, reconditioned etc. under 
She provisions of rules 97 , 97 -A, 10 ( 1 -A etc. 


tec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968 /BHADRA 9 , 1890 3943 

The assessee should follow the procedure laid down in the respective rules and as 
prescribed from time to time and he should maintain an account of the goods so received, 
the process to which subjected and removed in the following form;— 

Account of duty paid goods received for processing and repairs. 

(Rules 97, 97-A and 173-H). 

Name and address of the factory: 

Licence No. 


Receipts Details of processing/repairg 


Date of Fropr Descrip- Brand Qty, Signature Qty. Descrip- Amount 
reentry- whom tion of Name with received of recovered tion of of duty 
received goods. identify- assessee after excisable paid on 

ing marks or agent repro- components the com- 

or number cessing. used if ponents 

if any. any. with No. 

Sc date 
of gate 
pass. 


123 456 7 8 9 










Issues 

Date No. Sc date of Quantity 

gatepass 

Remarks 

- Signature of the 
assessee or 
his agent 

Refund granted 
i f any, of the 
duty 

10 n 12 

13 

14 

15 






Note :—In the case of damaged sugar/ccmcnt, if the procedure of duty-free clearance on 
quantity to quantity basis is followed. Col. 7 should be amended to read “Permi¬ 
ssible Quantity for delivery free of duty or intimated by the Central Excise Officer". 


(it) After payment of duty the goods cannot immediaely be removed from the fac¬ 
tory due to unforeseen circumstances beyond the assessee’s control such is 
non-availability of Railway wagon or the breakdown of carriers ;— 

(1) The place in the factory where such duty paid goods are to be stored shall be duly de¬ 
clared and approved by the officer competent to issue or renew the manufacturing licence. 

(2) The storage place should be separate and distinct from all the parts of the premises form¬ 
ing the manufactory and approved store rooms for non-duty paid goods . 

(3) The assessee should intimate to the Supdt. of Central Excise having jurisdiction over the 
f actory as soon as possible the reasons for not removing the duty paid goods from the factory. 






3944 THE gazette of India ; august 3 i, iw«/bhadra 9 ,T 89 o i [Pakt n- 


(4) The manufacturer shall keep an account of all receipts issues and balance of duty paid, 
goods in the following form :— 


Date Description of 

goods 


Receipts 

Opening -- 

balance 

Gate Pass No. 

& date Quantity 


Total 


i 


2 


3 


4 


5 


Issue 

-Closing Signature of Signature of 

No. and date of Qty balance licensee Central Exise Officer 

Gate passes 


to 


ii 


The stocks and accounts shall be open to inspecting by any Central Excise Officers at all 
reasonable times. 

(5) All issues from the duty p»id premises shall take place under gate passes. 

(in) Goods cleared on payment of duty brought back into factory due to sudden suspension 
of booking on Railways 

(1) The manufacturer shall give such notice to the Supdt. of Central Excise concerned as can 
reasonably be accommodated after the goods are received into the factory. 

(2) The goods shall be presented to the Central Excise Officer deputed for the purpose who 
will identity them with clearing documents Eke A.R.Is., gate passes (under Self Removal Proce¬ 
dure.) 

(3) The goods shall be stored separately in a place distant from the main premises forming 
the manufactory and approved store room for non-duty paid goods, and stock cared superscribed 
“re-entered goods” showing— 

1. Date of Receipt. 

2 . Quantity received. 

3. No. and date of clearance documents. 

4. Date of re-issue, and 

5. Quantity issued. 

should be maintained to distinguish them from other goods, if any, 

(4) All copies of original gate passes under which the goods were first cleared, should be 
endorsed when the goods are received back in the factory giving time and date. When the goods 
are cleared again, suitable entry should be made on these gate passes. 

(v) Goods brought into the factory for test or for studying designs of method of construc- 
t on etc. 

(1) The assessce shall notify to the Superintendent of Cenral Excise concerned immediately 
after the samples of duty paid excisable goods are received in the factory. The goods should be 
stored separately till these are inspected by the Central Excise officer. 

(2) The goods shall be presented for inspection if necessary for sampling by the Central 
Excise officer. 



Sec: "3(ii)] tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BNADRA 9, 1890 3945 ; 


( 3 ) The assessee shall keep a simple account of the receipt and disposal of such goods. This 
account shall be open for inspection by any Central Excise Officer at all times. 

(vi) Goods required to be stored in the factory premises for retail sale or for issue as com¬ 
plimentary gifts or repacking into packages so as to suit the requirements of individual 
customers. 

(1) Where the assessee has a retail shop open to the public it should as far as possible bo 
located away from the factory premises and in any case physically segregated from the factory 
premises, there being no entrance to the retail shop from inside the licensed premises, 

(2) Where the assessee wants to store some duty paid goods for retail sale to factory employees 
only or issue as complimentary gifts, ho should normally arrange for storage of such goods outside 
the licensed premises. However, any assessee having no additional storage place outside the 
licensed premises for storing duty paid goods he may be permitted to store the goods in a separate 
room/place situated within the factory premises subject to the following conditions. 

(a) The separate room/place where duty paid goods ate to be stored shall be duly declared and 
approved by the licensing authority concerned, prior to storage therein. 

( b) The room or place shall be segregated from the rest of the licensed premises by effectively 
closing all entrances into it except one communieating only with the open space outside the main 
factory building and this storage place shall be capable of being securely locked. 

(c) No duty paid goods shall be stored for this purpose elsewhere in the licensed premises 
except in such approved store room/place. 

(d) All issues for the retail store must be in accordance with the usual procedure for clear¬ 
ance on payment of duty. 

(e) Separate gate passes under Rule 52-A must be issued for each lot of duty paid goods a f 
the time of delivery. One gate pass book should be exclusively used for this purpose. No coun¬ 
tersignature of the Central Excise Officer on the gate passes will be necessary on the gate passes 
covering such issue. 

(/) The assessee should maintain an account of receipt issues and balance in the retail store, 
in the form given below :— 


Receipts 


Dale Description of goods Opening G.P. No. Quantity Total 

balance & date 


1 


2 


3 4 3 6 


Issues 


No. & date of Quantity Closing Signature of Remarks 

gate passes balance licensee 


7 


10 


11 


(, g ) The accounts so maintained will be open for inspection by any Central Excise Officer at 
all times. 

[No. CER4/68.] 






3946 IHE GAZETTE OP INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 

S.O. 2944 .—In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Rule 1730(1) of Central Excise Rules, 
1944 ,1 hereby prescribe a Form of Price list which shall be filed in quadruplicate for each quarter 
ending March, June, September and December of every year by every assesscc, who is governed 
by the Self Removal Procedure as laid down in Chapter VILA of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 
and who produces, manufactures or warehouses excisable goods which are chargeable with duty 
at a rate depending on the value of the goods, to the Superintendent of Central Excise having 
jurisdiction over his factory or warehouse well in advance of the commencement of the quarter in 
question. If there is any alteration and modification in the prices or change in the mode of sale 
from the stage of clearance from the factory to the whole-sale dealers / the consumers, he shall file 
a fresh price list in the prescribed form in qaudruplicate or communicate an amendment to the 
list already filed and approved by the proper officer, well before giving effect to such alteration, 
modification or change in the mode of sale. If there is no change whatsoever, in the price list 
already filed for the previous quarter and approved by the proper officer, he shall communicate 
the fact to the proper officer also, well in advance, before the beginning of the relevant quar¬ 
ter. 

Form of Pricf List 

Price list of M/s.-holder of L. 4 No.- in 

respect of-(mentioned here name of exciscable goods) for the quarter ending 

-March/June/September/Deccmber, 196 . 


S. No. Full description of exciseable goods Unit of sale Quantity or No. packed in 

such unit 



Price charged by the manufacture! to the wholesale dealers or consumers if there is a direct 
sale. 



Details of taxes including C. Ex 

Price per unit Discount allowed, if any and duty/if any, included in tire 

conditions price 


5 6 7 


Price charged by the manufacturer to the sole distributors, sole selling agents or authoised 
stockists. 



Name of distributor/sole- Price charged per Discount allowed Details of ta xes inclu- 
sclling agent/authorised unit if any & conditions ding C. Ex. duty 

stockists if any included in 

the price 

8 9 10 11 


Price charged by the sole distributors, sole selling agents or authorised stockists to the 
wholesale dealers or to the consumers. 



Details of taxes includ- 

Price charged per unit Discount allowed, if any and conditions ing Cenral Excise 

duty, if any included 
in the price. 


12 


13 


14 







Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31 , 1968 /BHADRA 9, 1890 3947- 


Asseasable value Full details of the channel of marketing the Remarks 

goods from the stage of clearance of 
goods from Che factory to the whocsale 
dealers or consumers and the condi¬ 
tions of agreement if any. 




16 


17 


I/We certify that the information given ah.ave is true and correct in all respect. 

Signature of the manufacture or his 
authorised agent. 

Note :—Separate price list should be filed for each excisable commodity manufacured in 
the factory and assessable to?duty ‘ad valorem’. If the goods are assessed to duty under different 
sub-items of the main Tariff item, separate section for the goods assessable to duty under different 
sub-items should be opened in the price list. 


[No. CER 5 / 68 .) 


Poona the 9 th, August 1968 

S.O. 2945.-— In exercise of the powers vested in me under Rule 5 of Central Excise 
Rules, 1944 , I order compilation of the Collcctorate Notification CER. No. 3/68 dated 
29 th May, 1968 , published in the Gazette of India of 15 th June, 1968 , as S.O. 2132 . 

[CER. No. 6 / 68 .] 

D. N, LAL. Collector. 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE : DELHI 
Central Excises 

Delhi, the 12th August 1968 

S.O- 1946 . _This Collectorate Notification No. 5/68-Central Excises, dated 23-5-68, 

published on page 2568, Fart II, Section 3(ii)of the Gazette of Indiaunder S.O. No. 1885, 
shall be ticatcd as cancelled 

[No. 6/68.] 

R. PRASAD Collector, 


v'i 

Hf fcevfV, 19 11W, 1968 

T^fo sfto 2 947,— ( 1) / tt'M8 u t (%'3rt3T) f'lh-H, 1959, ( 2) 

srcrfa (3) Rtfod+lff chit ^ 

ffsst WITT tTfi TJ TTT TTC^T% % TTfSRTT fW HTH T % rfK W 




3948 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 

1963 ( 1963 % 19)7% ETRT 5 3WKI' ( 1) (u) % 7P777 

77% JJ7 7T3 77 srTRTfJW TFJTP? TOT 77%7T :— 

1. 'TtfelFTto 77^7 (%.-s%y) f777, 19 59 

77o TTo 3 TlfFT 22 fcyTTT, 1959—■HillWTlT 77^7 !#WR 1953 
( 1953 77 32) %t tJTTT 1 4 3TTT 77W TfTTTt 77 SRTlTO 717% ^tt %^7 7T77T f;p7- 
pHpiFl 1777, f%777 777 7TTT 7% 77STTT ( 1 ) TRT 77T%f%7 73777 f%7T JIT 

^77 |, n77im 777% 77 tf 

1. 777—Sr f777 7ffW7%7 77?7T (%?st7) 1777, 1959 ®P% ^TT 777 I 

2. 777171—^7 fTTOft %, 77 T 7 T f% 777 % *7771 yyftuT 7 i?T— 

( i) “’Tfyf'iqo" % 7 tf%r%t 7 77^7 yfyfTTr, 1953 (1953 tt 32) 
yfwik 

(2) % fTTOr 3 7 f 7 f %7 <p 7 i Tfyyy 

(3) "tttpt” %srfyfTrr %t ym 2 % ?aw (tt) % 77 W (IX) itfafoTT 

yrfyfaw yrjTTTT Trfwfr 

(4) 'W577ft7 7rfy7Tft’’^%^yT7TTTro'^yl77 y^ym 4^wyVr 
7rf)s7%t7 TtffTTTfr fTjaRT f%7T 77T 7lf%IK ssrfyty %, yk 

(5) “TWy 77 ” It— 

(Sfr) Ttyt 77 %t % 77 j|iT TTWpff IT 7777 Tif%r%t 7 % 77 £'J| if ypy?y 
it, W %t ^7Tf It STRT7 sjt% 71% yk 77% 7% % 3 0 77 4 % 
TPTPTT i|t% 7T% TTT^ 7’% ? 77 717 71777 §T, 

(»7) f%7% 777 777 it 7TTOT% 77 7^ %7IT T% yf%%T | %f 77 7% %t 
f77% TryTj it 7tfal%t7 77 77f7 f%71 71 T^T | Tflfr ytfy sfk 
777 T% %t 31 71% % Tty Tit f%T% TrftTT %t 77F7 $tTT | I 

3. JJT7T 7m 7T7>T— ( 1) ^7 fTTTf % £pft7 7tfol%t7 % 77^1 % 7717 % f%T{, 

- Trf%T%t7 yifyyTTt folft 77T7TT%, ^VllPlT- 777TT7 7T TT7T7 % TTTTt 77 TT 77 ^777 %t 

7T7t7 7T%7T f%7% 777% % Tf 7%OT 7% 71771 f% 7^ yffeyykr TTfTTTft %t— 

( 7 t ) ih% utfr if yk %yt frfyfcTf 7 % syTfy'y 7777 717% %%t 77 ^77 1 % 

fo&Rti Ttt 7TTT tttt 7T yfyyT frrrfTTt t, 

(g-) TfT 77T0IT7T, 7kftf7+ 71JI7T7 7T TT7T7, TTP^ft yfyf777, 1956 
( 1956 77 l) Tm 77T qfcmfyy TTTTt % ITTfTTT if | eft 7TSFT T^ - 
% f%y TT TfT TTOTt 77 %7IT 7T%7 T'f % 7TP% T^t ^ fft 77 %S7 yif 
% f%rr, %t f% 77 7TST7 7^ % 777777 fH^ 77^ ft f77% f%tr 
%^I T^T f%7T 7T ^771, TTfTTT 7k 7T7 7k ^7 7?t 

fTTW Tit fTtte 7TT, TfT 7%f ?t, 77T 7t% ^ 






SliC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31, 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3949 

ttr RfeRtVq RftrTTfr % fair w. n tr fa t? ^rnfr if ri RtaaT ^ 

faRTift R RR 46414 51 Rf ir 5rf?JR irfcTR ^ R frlR f'flTT fRTTfRTt R RdfaR 

f*TR-f*m Rf faf qr * r ^iurr rtret r wt % faRRHfat % fw- 

•f«rer rr % srfa 4 f+Tvr-fTvr fRT#TR r 4 +rw % i 

( 2) RrfTRT ( 1) if falw fw^ff R RR 46 -rN RT RTfa % ^ ^t RRff 

r ^r Jr ft PtTt 7 4?r RiRff rpr't rtfs rt TETRftr q?r, faRf farRit r rr 
wW wIrt $, 4hi(r % qwcT— 

(t) 41 ft qr fe|q <,«i I R R1T q+d 13 51 qff •; »TT if cfR qRRIT 41+) ft ^ 4?t 

4 ?>fr, 

(u) fefV rr 4R Jr ^ to it yf Rt 4 fftft 1 

4 . Ti 414' Rif V4 i 5TT7TT—RT fdd +P J l4"f it, f^TR Rt TT Rfa) ^d d T % Rftd 

TRtff t qrt RT 4%^fr, ^RTT ir RTMM^fRT fRdPrTfad RffV R Ttf fafafaR R+rfRa: 
?>ft :— 

(i) strrtt qtt farMfesni, (2) 6RfRT sfH wet tt mrr, (3) foRT 
T^fr % fafR* rr‘t r ipr sfk rt mt srt, ( 4) qRfRRr fsft % Wr? 
4 STTT 44 *UR 3 ttr RT IT ^RRHT, ( 5 ) fRTtRT % ° 4 l- 1 , fa+fa RRfcl 
faftfsTd idlddR Tt TWT, ~+rf^TT T? fddif TR fWT RTT 5TTT Rlf- 

Rfaff % fqfvnr srRtf % far far rt +tTnr, R% f, (e) t^rMi' % 
Mira- stri! qtr m^d ffa R* fwnfkqrm 4T aqjtwR tt ^+ 4, 
(7) firfinr smr%srr^irwrf aftT'TT-’j^Tqi^^ftT itftt% rthh- 
% fiR , IT’Rt 3 llT i)lIdd, ( 8) *ft 3 TT qtt +tWT sftr »lHtci, ( 9 ) 

ITfrf'Aif'-Iri ( 1 o) ^ER, fd^d 'h"I 1 tilrA'I % TUtR ?flT dd^> 

qR-Hl u l 5 rt< ( 11) ■v , )iT 4 d' SRT HTRlft Hl*1 X 4 dl 4 

Rr% -irrct Tt ^Tf dt^rftnir, +qm, ^Frt HFrfwr ?fk 
wtt ?rk iRi^ wti i , (12) f^r % fd^r 5rf4% TFrrri tt arr ?tk 
tRrdT, Rr% ^RHTrr 3RT RR+«TTTt % Ptt qrTRrRt 5TTT 4ir qqif 
% Rpr 5TRf 1W WRft (13) ffc STTIT % y I?,Rl qft f43W, ( 1 4) 
?ET4f +rHTfiTEff wtr T?TPfr qr (15) fVsHr ir Rrw rj^tt 
Tt dTRl+T, ( 16 ) ffRfoft, + 14 ^ ^ wMt # 4 ^TR STR, OT 
srk iiR 3 ir sfk (17) qftf ?ri MirfeTTt ftra% gut it Rntft % 
Rfaf^PTiJ+nT 4R4I<1 qrr TTTR fRTT ^TT I 

5. ’RTaff'T—(l) 4f?TRHft ir «l^faTT fRTf'Rt 4T5RT 4^dl44, 4T 

^RT^TpR^rat ^^'fiRld Rt qrr 4l<4 >T 4 % TTRT HT Pri+fl 3RT Tfdd^dd +'5'^ ^ 

^3T ftftr if Rmit 4T ^ TRTRfsr % Rr% Rr ^ Tt »7^iTr +t ^ ^ 
R3% 3TTT ?t R +)4+ft f, +ft 4f 4441 5TTPT W ftftT if 4T R t fi^iMlfc)Hl % ft-fTT 
aR 7 !! dff ^4di if fdR'-d Ttftf R + MldlEr%■ RRRVR fd44 5TR?t ^f, 5rtrfift RJRRT 
Rt ^RR % W^RvR % if 4M4T RRR % fRT Rfwpt 7 ! RffJTTft Rt 

^RT if TO3 , ^RTT if RJ5IR TT^RftJ % RTT T^TT I 




3950 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 [Part II— 

(2) TrgrfFr tfffappk Trffjrrfr jufunu (1) %*nfir tofto ftT 

mi ft totf, vftrrc f^rdw tof FTFT#^'iFr tof^t 
arm TFFftit Trtarr 5ft t, tjtt tT'H i Tffer sto fFTFTfrF vr ftm ttttwt 
'Ftctft 3 fr stt#to totT TfFTffa FifsFFffF FTfgFmt am sn#ro % Ffrri^fTF 
fr^FT^ ^'qr^urV TFTFtarTTFrf'TT FftFTffFr3 tf>f % wot %fttft§> 1 

6 . fFFTfFFf F qfrwcfsr V(\X Q*vt VT f*T?TTT—HT^TmwtaT^TIilTIFWr, 
ff Jfftrf *r, fFF% srcftF TFnft it f^mfrrf srtr tof mrrFrff ft fmr fett FifsTO 

|, fmft Ft "FT r'vf.-r irf^r ^TOt fer TT?t ^ gr^WF TFT Tt FTTOTfiFt, 

FftFSF +U FTTOFFT V'lT F'TO T FTFT FF' FtfFFFffF 5TTf *Jmi T fMr FSTFfftFT 

t'u FfFfr, toftt iTT'r Tmtfsf-r fFmfFFt ?fk mn^ 1 '^ % fTF 37ft Tim 
f>TT irnfr Tgf ^tFft teTto ttot gggror it FttFftft :■— 

mg wi f¥ TOtrr TFnft % srrmr m it tofft fror eft | agt smtftro 

fFFTfiTFt TT tT TOF FTFUtTff Ftt + J F % ft-FT TUTF nRtTi+d, ^T4V 
am gir to^ft Fit ftIto F?r Trffa it rftF m ft FFTfTFfir fft ftf % 
f^g fawfm ft f£ imft t 1 ft ft : 

mg ft *ftr Pt Ttfemrur Trftrmfr gan if Ftr-T m FfTTfaT ft froft mr 
mr t Ft ?TfMimj?rrc fmnfFT ft ffft i 

7. uftatf vfr ftfttet f fa 3—(1) Ffa m mnrfg % frur , fm% 
mi if r^mtmrr ft ftftff gmrr if mhfV f^ f, fatff m ft Ft, Troft Fft Tf fett 

Ft Tg trmfFrr fTt ftoiftt 0 ffaFFtfa FTfaFmt Ft tf mnTfsr mr 'ftt T m ir 

TFT fFPT ^ f^rnfr »TT I 

( 2 ) FfT Ttf mmETT, :trt«Tl H i *+* fff[?tft ft tfttf mr t h 1 ^fir % Ttrnr, 

fTFT% TTi; if TFFFT FTFTT fTrnfTFT FT atdl^^ FPft Ff §, fiFF FTFT mr FT TFT f, 
m FWi frmfFFt FT 5EF TFTTF FtfsWtF' FTfamfr FT> TFT FTFtFT m Ftf FF^lFPsT 
^fFITT^FT fTFFTt Flf FTFFrTFT, FftFltfFT FFEFTF FT FTFTF frF FTFT 5PT FT ^FT | I 


8. g^FT ifTf OTffi^ FT F—^F fFFrft % FTcfTF FFUtY m FTFlT frg FPT % f?# 
fTFft gFFT FT FtT^T FT> FTFftTT, TFft'fT FfFF^tfTr fFTTF? it TO % FTTOF F FT 

THfl gTFTFttFTfftFTTirTFI^ft% FTKilIF % FFET ’X FfTFrT FF% FYFTF%fTOr ^rfFFFVffcf 
^rfiTFUFFr^ FTTF%fTF FtfFFFflF FrfTFF^f 3TF FTfFfTT froft ^FfTO ^ FTTOF FT 
FT^TF 5TTT Fit TT FT%Ft I 

9 . FT7T TTTFFTTi' V TIFT Flf^F—^F fFFWt % TOftF Ft FT% ^ f^F SFtfsiTF' 
Fvft TTTFFFft FFsft FT gTft TOF FTFT FT FTFTFt if Ft 5TEtFt ^Ft ^FFtF FTFFT TTi^Wl 
5TTT fFfFfm Tt I 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 31. 1968/BHADRA 9, 1890 3951 

10 . swfmifara v TjET 5 ^ t.t sutht —0 Trftporft 

HITT 11 % ^TtsfY^T STfWM'l 3# ifSjT *8 <.^1 % 4$?l, a< lf4d ■TT^ *PT 

Tf*RT-iJ*RT 8TWT^TT f*P % frp^ TTf *T^THT I 

II mfW? WTRT wfaiW*, 1953 ( 1953 fT 32) SHTCR «ffr mtB* 

#0 m^o 'fto (t) — l(22)/56-cTT^ 20 TTWT, 1 956—Elfw^T 

# 1 I^T *rf#fmrR, 19 53 ( 1953 ^T 32 ) #mTT 1 ^ 3 WTl( 3 ) SRT SPTtT SlfaPTf 

«pt %^rfYzr 1950 % B'wc % 10 #' far far 

fsrmpt srfaftmi ^trr 1 

III iriWTW #qrpjr tffc TifwrO fwf<m 

TTO mo 46 2 TUfEsT 1 8 TZTTt, 1960—TtfsTTtT TTjTT TTftffTTT, 195 3 

(1953m 32) ^ttnrr 3 gro srewurfawfma##? *?tt# %^a#r ron 

fcfair $ fsp :— 

(i) Smsrftrfwr^OTTT 2 %UPS (sr) (IX) # Tm TfT 0 Tf#?r TT^rr^ITl 

(ii) mrwHTf, 5 t!t 

(iii) Tiwnff, 

# fm#r % # s+fewto srh: srfferfcm *$t 

srrrr 4 am ststt m mf#T e ft# } faTnEr, tf^tt bwt bitt 
ftftss fwfr%irp^sr# nifewEr #r^t % mrrm % fir# mferaW TTfimfr f mw 
#T !R#V | 1 

[#o 16 6 65 — 


^0 STo TTirNw I 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PTSF.SR. 
NEW DELHI AND CllIil llUlKI) BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI, 1003 




