REGISTERED No. D. 222 


Wnz ^a^ette 



wnfl 



Enbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 6] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1956 

NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 
4th February, 1966: — 


Issue 

No. 

Name and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

14 

S. R. O. 217, dated the 
27th January 1956. 

Government of Ajmer 
(Local Self Govern- 
ment Department). 

Ajmer State Fanchayat 

Election and Business) Rules, 
( 1955 - 

15 

S. R. 0 . 218, dated the 
31st January 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division). 

Exemption of Methyl alcohol, 
when imported, from pay- 
ment of so much of customs 
duty in excess of standard 
rate. 

I 6 

S. R. 0 . 219, dated the 
3l8t January 1956. 

Ministry of Law 

Fixation of hours during which 
the poll shall be taken in 
Gauhati Parliamentary (^ns- 
titutency in Assam. 

17 

S. R. 0. 220, dated the 
ist February, 1956. 

Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry. 

Fixation of the price of tea for 
the purpose of Item 5 in 
the Second Schedule to the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 

i8 

S. R. 0. 221, dated the 
30th January, 1956. 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Designation of Returning Officer 
for the Gadhsisa Council of 
States Constituency in the 
State of Kutch. 

19 

S. R. 0. 222, dated the 
ist February, 1956, 

Ministry of Finance 

Amendment made in the Sche- 
dule to the Bengal Finance 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1941, as 
extended to the State of 
Delhi. 

20 

S. R. 0 . 258, dated the 
3rd February, 1956. 

Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division). 

Amendment made to the noti- 
fication No. CER-96 g (i)/ 
55, dated the loth December, 

1955- 


Copki of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these Gazettes. 


( 145 ) 



146 TH^ GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1068 [Part II— Sec, 3 


PART n — Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Ontral Authorltle* 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 

S.R.O. 265.— It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica- 
tions under clause (c) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1991), incurred by the person whose name and 
address are given below, as notified under Notification No. MT-CS/62(1), dated 
the 3rd April. 1954, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise 
of the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act 
respectively: — 

Shri Umesh Lai Singh, Agartala, Tripura State, 


[No. MT-CSS/56(2).] 
By Order, 

P. S. SUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1966 

S.B.O. 266. — The following notifications issued by the Sikkim Darbar are 
published for general information; — 


1. “Notification No. 2386/0. S. 

It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed 
that the summonses and other processes Issued by the High Court and all other 
Civil and Revenue courts of Sikkim may be served by the courts in India for 
a period of one year with effect from the 15th January 1966, the Sikkim Darbar 
have also agreed that the summonses and other processes Issued by the Civil 
and Revenue courts in India may be served by the courts of Sikkim for the 
above period of one year. 


2. “Notification No. 2386/O.S. 

It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed 
that the decrees passed by the High Court and all other courts of Sikkim whose 
civil jurisdiction is not subject to any pecuniary limit may be executed by the 
district courts in India for a period of one year, with effect from the ISth January, 
1096, the Slkklm Darbar have also agreed that the decrees passed by the follow- 
ing courts of India, namely: — 

(i) The Supreme Court, 

Hi) All High Courts and Judicial Commissioners, 

(hi) All District Courts, 

(iv) All other courts whose civjl jurisdiction is subject to no pecuniary 
limit provided that the judgement or the decree sought to be execut- 
ed is sealed with a seal showing that the jurisdiction of the court is 
subject to no pecuniary limit, 

may be executed in Sikkim by the court of the Chief Magistrate. 

Explanation. — ‘Decree’ in the above notification means bny decree or Judge- 
ment under which a sum of money is payable not being a sum payable in 
respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or 




Part 8] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


147 


other penalty, but shall in no case include an arbitration award, even if such an 
award is eniorceable as a decree or judgement. 

By Order of His Highness the 
Maharaja of Sikkim, 

(Sd.) T, D. Densapa. 

Chief Secretary, 
Government of Sikkim." 


Ganotok; 

The 12th January, 1066. 


[No, F.27-I/54-L.] 
H. R, KRISHNAN, Jt. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 2nd February 1966 

S.R.O. 267. — In pursuance of clause (D of Article 239 of the Constitution, the 
President hereby directs that the Chief Comml.ssioner of Bhopalj shall, subject 
to the control of the President, and until further orders, exercise the powers 
and discharge the functions of the Central Government under the provision.s of 
sub-section (8) of section 108B of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 
1808), in the case of persons employed in connection with the affairs of the State 
of Bhopal. 

[No. F, 2/1/66- Judl.Il.j 
S. NARAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 3rd February 1960 

S.R,0. 268, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of Article 77 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following further amendment to 
the rule published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs, No. S.R.O, 167, dated the I9th June, 1950, namely; — 

In the said rule — 

(1) at the end of item (13), the word "or" .shall be Inserted; and 
(li) after item (13), the following item shall be inserted, namely: — 

‘‘(14) in the case of demand notices under clause 9 of the General Conditions 
cf Contract as contained in form Con. 117 requesting purchasers to 
pay to the Government any sum of money recoverable from or 
payable by purchasers on account of either loss on resale or for any 
other reason under a contract of sale entered into by the Directorate 
General of Supplies and Disposals, by Its Director /or the Deputy 
Director of Supplies and/or Disposals.” 

[No. ,S/3/65.Publlc I.] 
FATEH SINGH, Dy, Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi-2, the 2nd February 1956 

S.R.O, 269. — In pursuance . of clause (22) of Article 306 of the Constitution of 
India the President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja 
Okendrajit Singh, as the Ruler of Manipur with effect from the 9th December. 
1066 in succession to His late Highness Maharaja Bodh Chandra Singh. 

[No, F.ll/3/55-PoU.ni.] 

V. VISWANATHAN, Jt. Secy. 



148 the gazette of INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1950 [Pabt II— Sec. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1960 

S.R,0, 270. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made to the Indian Foreign Service Rules, 1954, namely: — 

In sub-rule (6) of rule 18 of the said rules, the following note shall be inserted 
at the end, namely. — 

“Note, — A Government servant who at the time of his transfer holds an 
insurance policy in respect of his personal effects will be reimbursed 
the actual cost of such insurance limited to the amount of premium 
that would have been admissible to him had he Insured his personal 
effects for the Journey, as provided for in these rules.” 

[No. 80-EI1/56.] 
[No. F.12 (10) -E.II/56. (IPSR-Am.lO.] 
M. MAJTJMDAR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1966 

S.R.O. 271. — The President is pleased to direct the following amendments 
shall be made in Section II- (a) “Charge of office” of the Administrative Instruc- 
tions In connection with the Fundamental Rules; — 

(i) For the existing rule 3, the following shall be substituted; — 

3. The Headquarters of any other Government Servant are either the station 
which has been declared to be his headquarters by the authority 
competent to prescribe his headquarters for the purpose of travelling 
allowance under Supplementary Rules 59 or, in the absence of such 
declaration, the station where the records of his office are kept. In 
the case of a competent authority himself, the said power will be 
exercised by the Head of Department, and, if the Head of the 
Department himself is the competent authority, by the administrative 
Ministry. 

(il) Note below rule 3 shall be deleted. 

[No. F.12(14)E.IV/66.1 
K. S. GANAPATI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 

S.R.O. 272.— In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 63 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act. 1934 (II of 1934) and in partial modification of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance. No, F.3( 16) -FI/48, dated the 
16th June, 1948, the Central Government hereby directs that, with effect from the 
20th January, 1966. in Form ‘A’ annexed to the said Notification, after the item 
"Heserve Fund' in the column relating to 'Liabilities’, the following two items 
shall be inserted, namely: — 

National Agricultural Credit (Long-Term Operation) Fund, 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund. 

[No, F.2(21) -FI/55.] 
J. L, KUNDU, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 

S.R.O. 278.— In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-rule (ii) of rule 2 of the 
Appellate Tribunal Rules, 1946, the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri A. S, Singhal, Income-tax Officer, Class II, as Authorised Represen- 
tetive with effect from the 14th December, 1966, to appear, plead and act for any, 
Income-tax Authority who is a party to any proceedings before the Income-tax 
Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 13.1 

P. N. DAS GUPTA. Dy. Secy. 



Pabt II— $«:, 33 TJffi GAZETTE QT INDIA, FEBRUARY U, lUfW 


149 


Customs 

New Delhi, the 11th February 1956 

S.R.O. 274. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby directs that the foUowinfi 
amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India, in the 
Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division) No. 107-Customs, dated the llth September 
1954, namely; — 

In the said notification, for the words “Projector Lamps” the words 
"Projector Lamps and Studio Lamps" shall be substituted. 

[No. 3,] 

E. S. KRISHNAMOORTHY, Jt. Secy. 


ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the 2n4 February 1956 


S.B.O. 275. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed, dated the 6th January, I960, 
executed by the High Commission for the United Kingdom in India in respect of 
ths upper flat situated at 131, Sunder Nagar, New Delhi, Ig chargeable under the 
said Act. 


[No, 7.] 

M. R. RAMACHANDRAN, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Incomx-tax 

New Delhi, the 31«t January 1956 

SJl.O, 276 [28/113/04- IT]. — In exercise of the powers confuted by sub- 
section (1) of section 69 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (Xl pf 1922), the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Indian Income-tax Rules, 1922, the same having been previously published as 
required by sub-section (4) of the said section, namely: — 

In the Form of Notice of Demand prescribed by rule 20 A of the said Rules: 

I. In Paragraph 1; 

(a) for the words "Take notice that", the words “This is to give you notice" 

shall be substituted; and 

(b) after the words and figures "Indian Income-tax Act, 1922" and before 

the words "the sum”, the word "that” shall be Inserted; 

II. In Paragraph 8: 

(a) for the words “You are required to pay the amount”, the words "The 

amount is payable” shall be substituted; and 

(b) after the word "when” and before the words "you will” the words 

‘it the amount is paid” shall be Inserted; 

III, In Paragraph 4: 

for the word “required” the word "asked” shall be substituted. 

[No. 6.] 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1950 

S.B.O. 276A, [50/1/06]. — In pursuance of sub-section (4) of section 5 of the 
Indian In^come-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue directs 
that the following further amendment shall be made in the schedule to Its Notifi- 
cation No, 32-Income-tax, dated the 9th November, 1946. namely; — 

In the said schedule under the sub-head, "VII-A Punjab, 

Bilaspur, Patiala and East Punjab States Union and Jannmu 
for entry "6. A & C Wards, Ludhiana” agaihst Patiala Range, 
shall be substituted, namely: — 


Himachal Pradesh, 
& Kashmir State*’ 
:he following entry 


“6. A, C and D Wards. Ludhiana.” 



150 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1060 [Pabt II— Sec, 3 

This Notification shall be deemed to Save taken effect from the 20th day of 
January, 1956. 

[No. 8.] 

M. S. SIVRAMKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the Ist February 1056 

S.R.O. 277. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the S^tate Duty Act, 1963 (34 of 1063), and in 
partial modification of the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 8-ED, 
dated the Ist June. 1054, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Assistant Controllers posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle in Madras 
and the Deputy Controller exercising jurisdiction over the said Circle shall also 
perform their functions as. Assistant Controllers and Deputy Controller respectively 
In respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being, or would have been, asses-sed to income-tax had they derived any 
taxable income In any Income-tax Circle under the Jurisdiction of the Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioners, Ranges I and II, Madras, the Headquarters of which 
Circle lies outside the municipal limits of the City of Madras. 

[No. 2/F. No. 21/7/5.6-E,D.l 


S.R.O. 278. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1963), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniaiw limits specified 
In the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5-E.D., dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Patna, shall perform his 
functions as Assistant (Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
Income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in any Income-tax Circle 
under the jurisdiction of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Northern Range, 
Bihar. 

[No. 3/F. No. 21/7/55-E.D.I 

S.R.O. 279.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1963), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No, 6-E.D,, dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Jamshedpur, shall perform 
his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in any Income-tax (Circle 
under the jurisdiction of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Southern Range, 
Bihar. 


[No, 4/F. No. 21/7/66-E,D.J 

S.R.O. 280. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1053), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecunla^ limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5-E.D., dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Surat, shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
Immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
income-tax, had they derived any tai^able income, in any Income-tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Surat. 


[No. 6/P. No. 21/7/66-E.D.l 



Part II^-Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1960 


I51 


S.R.O. 281. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1963 (34 of 1963), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5-E.D., dated the 4th 
December, 1953, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-cunt-Income-fax Circle, Baroda, shall perform his 
fimctlons as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
Immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
income-tax, had they derived any taxable Income, in any Income-tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Baroda. 

[No. 6/P. No. 21/7/55-E.D.] 


S.B>0. 282.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, sulyect to the pecunia^ limits specific 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 6-E.D., dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-ciim-Income-tax Circle, Rajkot, shall perform his 
funciions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persona who 
Immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in any Income-tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Rajkot. 

[No. 7/P. No. 21/7/55-E.D.] 


S.R.O. 283. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 6-E.D., dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty-cum-Income-tax Circle, Poona, shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the' exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been, assessed to 
income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in any Income-tax Circle 
within tlje Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Poona. 

[No. 8/F. No. 21/7/66-E.D,] 


S.R.O. 284. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act. 1953 (34 of 1963) the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board 01 Revenue No. 5-E.D., dated 
the 4th December, 1953, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Nagpur 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been, assessed to income-tax, had they derived any taxable Income In 
any Income-tax Circle within the Ran^ of the Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner, Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal, Nagpur. 


[No. 9/F. No. 21/7/65-E.D.] 

S.R.O. 285. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1963 (34 of ft63) the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5-E.D., dated 
the 4th December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle Bangalore 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been, assessed to income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income-tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner. Bangalore, 


[No. 10/F. No, 21/7/65-ED.] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBEUAHY U, 1906 [Part II— Sec. -t 


1 52 


S.B.O. 886.^ — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act. 1953 (34 of 1063), the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No, 6-E.D., dated 
the 4th December, 1953, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circl^ Ernakulam 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in tjie said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been, assessed to income-tax. had they derived any taxable Income, in 
any Income-tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner. Ernakulam, 


[No. 11/F. No. 21/7/55-E.D.] 


S.R.O. S87. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act. 1963 (34 of 1953), the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5-E,D., dated 
the 4th December, 1953, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle. Madhurai 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been, assessed to income-tax, had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income-tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner, Madhurai. 


[No. 12/F. No. 21/7/65-E.D.] 


S.R.O, 288. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1963 (34 of 1963), the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5-E.D., dated 
the 4th December, 1963, every Income-tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Coimbatore 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their d^ath were being, or would 
have been, assessed to income-tax, Ijpd they derived any taxable income, In 
any Income-tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioner, Coimbotore. 

[No, 13/F, No. 21/7/65-EJ).] 

S.R.O. 289.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
85 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1053) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the Estate Duty Rules, 1963*, as 
amendedt, the same having been previously published as r^uired by the said 
sub-section, namely: — 

In the said Rules — 

(1) clause (e) of rule 2 shall be omitted; 

(2) to sub-rule (6) of rule 14, the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that, if the Controller is satisfied that the principal value so 
ascertained is less than three-fourths of the market value of the land 
at the time of the death of the deceased, the principal value of the 
land shall be estimated under section 36 of the Act."; 

(3) in sub-rule (6) of rule 26, after the words "The appeal to the Central 
Board of Revenue under section .63 of the Act shall be in Form E.D.9”, the follow- 
ing shall be added, namely: — 

"Every memorandum of appeal shall be in duplicate and shall be accom- 
panied by two copies (at least one of which shall be a certified copy) 
of the order app^ed against.” 

(4) In rule 30, for the word "company”, wherever it occurs, the word “insurer" 
shaU be substituted; 


*S.R.O. 656 of 1964. 

tfl-BiOs. 1706 and 2241 of 1954 and S.R.O. 800 of 1956. 




Part II-^Sec, 3]. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1956 153 


(6) 111 rule 31, — 

(a) in the form of assignment, for the expressions ‘‘the within policy of 

Assurance No of the Co. Ltd,”, 

the following shail be substituted, namely; — 

‘‘the within policy of Assurance No of the 

Co. Ltd/the within Postal Life Insurance Policy/Postal Endow- 
ment Aaaurance Policy No ” 

(ta) In the proviso, for the word “Company” in both the places where it 
occurs, the word “insurer” shall ba substituted; 

After rule 31, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“31 A. Lodgment oj insurance policies and former deeds of assignment or re- 
assignment of policies with the Controller.— (1) Where a policy of 
insurance is taken out for the express purpose of paying estate duty 
or where an existing insurance policy is assigned to the President of 
India for the purpose of paying estate duty, the assured shall within 
three months of the date of issue of the policy or within three months 
of the date of registration of the assignment by the insurer, as the 
case may be, deposit the policy with the Commissioner of Income-tax 
(who is also the Controller of Estate Duty) within whose jurisdiction 
the assured resides. 

(2) In the case of a policy assigned to the President for the purpose of 
paying estate duty, the assured shall surrender to- the Controller of 
Estate Duty all former deeds of assignments or reassignments, if any, 
in respect of that policy.” 

(7) In rule 32, for the word “company”, the word “insurer" shall be substituted. 

(8) In rule 33, for the words “insurance company” in both the places where 
they occur, the word “insurer” shall be substituted. 

(9) After rule 34, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“35. Particulars to be furnished by insurers . — (1) In the case of insurance 
policies taken out in the form prescribed by rule 30 or assigned to the 
Government of India in the form prescribed by rule 31 for the pu^ose 
of paying estate duty, the insurer shall furnish to the Assistant Con- 
troller or Deputy Controller of Estate Duty for the time being exer- 
cising the functions of the Income-tax Officer in respect of ^he insurer, 
quarterly statements containing the following particulars/ namely: — 

(a) (i) the number of policies so taken out; 

(ii) the names and addresses of the assured; 

(iii) the amounts payable under such policies. 

<b) (i) the number of policies so assigned in favour of the President; 

(il) the names and addresses of the assured; 

(ill) the amounts payable under such policies. 

Each quarterly statement shall be furnished within one month of the end 
of the quarterly period to which the statement relates, each quarterly 
period being computed with reference to the commencement of the 
financial year. 

^21 Whenever an insurer makes payment of an amount exceeding Rs, 10,000 
due imder one or more life insurance policies on the death of the 
assured to his legal heirs, executors, administrators, other legal re- 
presentatives or to his nominees or assignees, the insurer shall within 
two months of the date of payment furnish the following particulars 
to the Assistant or Deputy Controller of Estate Duty for the time 
being exercising the functions of the Income-tax Officer in respect 
of the insurer, namely; — 

(1) the name and address of the assured; 

(ii) the amount paid under the policy; 

<lli) the name and address of the nominee or assignee to whom the 
payment is made, or if the policy has not been subjected to nomina- 
tion or assignment, the name and address of the legal heir, executor, 
administrator or other legal representative; 

<lv) the date on which paymmt is made.” 



154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1956 LPaht II— Sec. 'i 


(10) After rule 35, the following headings and rules shall be inserted, 
namely; — 

“Particulars to be furnished by statutory Corporations regarding stocks, 
shares or other securities held by a deceased person. 

36. Particulars to be furnished by Statutory Corporations. ~(1) Where a 
statutory corporation so constituted under any Act of Parliament 
or a State Legislature has come to know through any of its principal 
officers or otherwise of the death of any person who is a registered 
holder of stocks, shares or other securities in such corporation, It 
shall within one month of the receipt of such knowledge, furnish 
the particulars mentioned in sub-rule (2) to the Assistant or Deputy 
Controller of Estate Duty, for the time being exercising the functions 
of the Income-tax Officer in respect of the Corporation. 

(2) (a) Where any transfer of a part or whole of the stocks, shares or 
other securities standing in the name of the deceased has been 
registered in the books of the corporation and such transfer has 
been made for vaiuable comsideration, the following particulars 
shall be furnished, namely; — 

(i) the name and address of the deceased in whose name the stocks, 
shares or other securities stood; 

(ii) the name and address of the transferee; 

(iii) the description (with distinctive numbers) of the stocks, shares 
or securities transferred; 

(iv) the nominal value of the stocks, shares or securities transferred: 

(v) the amount of consideration paid by the transferee; 

(vi) the name and address of the transferor to whom or of the broker 
through whom, the consideration was paid; 

(vii) the description of any other stocks, shares or other securities still 
standing in the name of the deceased on the date of furnishing 
the particulars. 

(b) Where no transfer of any stocks, shares or other securities standing 

in the name of the deceased has been registered in the books of the 
corporation, the following particulars shall be furnished, namely: — 

(i) the name and address of the deceased holder of stocks, shares or 
securities: 

(li) the description (with distinctive numbers) of the stocks, shares 
or securities standing in the name of the deceased; 

(iii) the nominal value of the stocks, shares or securities held; 

(iv) the estimated market value thereof on the date of the date of the 
death of the deceased; 

(v) the name and address of the trustee, administrator or other legal 
representative of the deceased; 

(vi) whether any application has been received from any person for 
the transfer of such stocks, shares or securities; and if so, the 
name and address of the person who has applied for transfer. 

(c) Where the deceased was a Joint holder of stocks, shares or other 

securities, the following particulars shall be furnished, namely; — 

(i) the name and address of the deceased Joint holder; 

(il) the name and address of every other person holding the stocks, 
shares or other securities Jointly with the deceased holder; 

(iii) the description of the stocks, shares or other securities so held 
Jointly; 

(iv) the nominal value of the stocks, shares or other securities held Jointly 
immediately before the death of the Joint holder; 

(v) the beneficial interest of the deceased Joint holder in the stocks, 
shares or other securities, if known; 



Part lit— S ec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDJA, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 155 


(vi) the estimated market value of the joint stocks, shares or other 
securities on the date of the death of the deceased; 

(vii) the name and address of the trustee, administrator or other legal 
representative of the deceased, if known. 

Information to be furnished by Provident Funds and Superannuation 
Funds. 

37. Particulars to be furnished by a Provident Fund or a Superannuationi 
Fund in the case of the death of a member participating in the Fund.— 
Where the Trustees of any Provident Fund or of any Superannuation 
Fund, the accounts of which are not maintained by an Accounts Officer 
of the Central or any State Government, come to know of the death 
of the member participating In such Fund and where the lump sum 
payment or the commuted value of the benefits payable on account of 
participation in the Fund exceeds Rs. 10,000, the Trustees shall, within 
one month of the receipt of such knowledge, furnish the following 
particulars to the Assistant Controller or Deputy Controller of Estate 
Duty for the time being exercising the functions of the Income-tax 
Officer in respect of such Fund, namely: — 


(i) the name and description of the Fund; 

(ii) the name and address of the deceased member participating in the 
Fund; 

(iii) (a) in the case of a Provident Fund, the amount lying to the credit 
of the deceased on the date of his death; 

(b) in the case of a Superannuation Fun^ any annuity, pension or lump 
sum payable under the Rules of the Fund with the detailed schemes 
thereof; 

(Iv) the names and addresses of the Trustees, Administrators or other 
legal representatives of the deceased, if known; 

(V) the names and addresses of the persons to whom the amounts men- 
tioned in item (iii) is payable or paid.” 

(11) In Form E.D.l, (i) for paragraph 20, the following paragraph shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

‘i20. That to the best of my/our knowledge and belief, there is no other 
property under any title whatsoever in respect of which duty is 
chargeable on the death of the deceased. 

I/We (11) swear/affirm that the 


statements in paragraphs are true and 

that the statements in paragraphs are made upon 


Information received by me/us and solemnly and sincerely believed to be true. 

1. Signed 

Address 

2. Signed 

Address 

• • ♦ 

( 12 ) 

Declared on oath or affirmation 

before me this day 

of 19 at .... 

by the above named 

.who is/ 

are personally known to me. 

Identified by ~ 

tSigned 

Designation ' 


'If there are more persons than two making the declaration, here insert the 
signatures and address of all the remaining persons. 

tThis may be sworn or affirmed before any Magistrate or other Ck)urt, or 
before a person having by law authority to receive evidence. The designation of 
the Magistrate, Court or person 'should be added below the signaturb.” 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1906 [Part II— Ekc. 3 


156 


(ii) in Account No. 1— (First Part) — 

(a) for the words “unpaid purchase money of movable and leasehold pro- 

perty contracted in life-time of the deceased to be sold, as per statement 
annexed’’, the following words shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Unpaid purchase money of Immovable property contracted in life-time 
of the deceased to be sold as per statement annexed”. 

(b) the following words and brackets shall be omitted, namely: — 

“Leasehold property for years, J If sold, realised gross 

as per form IB \ If unsold, estimated at 

(Mortgages on the leasehold property should be deducted by inclusion 
in ^hedule No.l)” 

(c) the words “and leasehold” occurring in “Rents of the deceased’s own 

immovable and leasehold property due prior to the death but not 

received by the deceased. (G) estimated Rs.” shall be 

omitted; and 

(d) the words “and leasehold” occurring in Apportionment of the rents of 

the deceased’s immovable and leasehold property due prior to the 
death, ((j) estimated at Rs.” shall be omitted. 

(lit) in Account No. 1 — (Second Part) — 

for the words “Immovable Property except agricultural land situate in 
the States of India”, the following shall be substituted, namely; — 

“Immovable property (including leaseholds) other than agricultural land 
situate in the States of India”. 

(Iv) In Accounts Nos. 3(a) AND 3(b) — 

(a) in the heading of column 2, the words and brackets “(Full particulars 

of any leaseholds for years should be separately stated) shall be 
omitted; 

(b) In column 1, the words “Deduct — Debts and encumbrances upon lease- 

holds, as per statement annexed” shall be omitted. 

(v) In Schedule No. 1 — (First Part) — 

the brackets and words “(including mortgage debts secured on leasehold 
property)” occurring in the first line ^all be omitted. 

<vl) In Form 1-B annexed to Form E.D. 1 — 

for the words “Statement of Immovable and/or Leasehold property exclud- 
ing agricultural land”, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"Statement of Immovable Property, (including leaseholds) other than 
agricultural lands.” 

(vii) In Form 1-E annexed to Form E.D. 1 — 

(a) after Note “(11)”, the following Note shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(12) The Declaration is in the nature of an affidavit and liable to stamp 
duty at the rates prevailing in the State in which the document is 
executed or, where the document executed in a particular State is 
presented in another State, at the rates prevailing in the State in 
which it is presented, whidiever is the hi^er.” 

(b) for items “(c)” and “(d)” below Note ‘(N)’, the following shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“(c) Proceeds of insurance policy taken out for the purpose of paying estate 
duty or assigned to the President of India for the said purpose, to the 
extent of duty payable; 

(d) Moneys deposited with the Government for the purpose of paying estate 
duty, to the extent of duty payable; 

Provided that the moneys in respect whereof no estate duty shall be payable 
either under item (c), or item (d) or under both, shall not exceed 
rupeas Mty thousand in the aggregate.’ ; 



Part lit— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1060 


157 


(12) In Form No, E.D. 3— 

(i) In the second paragraph, for the word “none”, the words “no estate duty" 
shall be substituted; 

(ii) the following foot-note shall be added, namely; — 

“Note,— This certificate merely entitles a person to grant of representation 
and does not release the proj^erty mentioned in the certificate from 
the charge created under Section 74 of the Estate Duty Act, 1053”; 

(13) In Form E.D. 7, at the top right hand corner, the following shall be insert- 
ed, namely: — 

“G.I.R, No. — and 

(14) For the existing Form E.D. 8, the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

ESTATE DUTY 

E.D. — 8 As.sessmbnt/Refund Form 

nilc 26(5) ] 


Serial Noi 


Code No, 


State . . 

District of Cheic 

E.D. I.R. Number' 

Aselstant/Deputy/ Controller 

Name and address of the deceased 

Domicile of the deceased 

Name and address of the person accountable 


Details of Property 


Code 

No. 


Principal 
value of 
interest 
in Joint 
Hindu 
Family 


Principal 
value of 
property 
of any 
other 
kind 


Total 

value 

of 

property 


Remarks 


23 456 


A. IMMOVABLE PROPERTY IN 
INDIA 


(i) Agricultural property situated 
in me State(s) of 


Ill . . . 

(ii) Non-agricultural property 

situated in the States(3) 

of. .... . 

II 2 . . . 

B. MOVEABLE PROPERTY IN 


INDIA 


(i) Government Securities , 

(ii) Stocks, Shares and Deb- 

2 II . . . 

entures .... 

212 . . . 

(iii) Cash including fixed de- 


posits 

213 . . . 

(iv) Life Insurance proceeds 

(v) Business assets including 

214 . , > 

share in partenership and 
Goodwill .... 

215 ... 

(vi) Precious Stones, Jewellery 

and works of Art 

216 . . , 

(vlO Household goods, Vehiclas 


Furnimre etc. 

2 J 7 ... 

(viii) Slice of the assets of Co- 

ntrolled Companies. 

218 . , . 

(ix) Others .... 

219 . . . 






158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1986 [Part II— Sec. 3 


I 


23456 


C. MOVABLE PROPERTY OUT- 
SIDE INDIA 
(i) Government Securities ■ 

(li) Stocks, Shares and Deben- 
tures ..... 

(iii) Cash Including fixed dc- 
TOsltes ..... 

(iv) Life Insurance proceeds 

(v) Business assets including share 

In partnership and Good- 
will 


(vi) Precious Stones, Jewellery 
and Works of Art , ' . 

(vil) Household goods, Vehicles 
Furniture etc, 

(vlU) Slice of the assets of Co- 
ntrolled Companies 
(lx) Others .... 


TOTAL PROPERTY (PRINCI- 
PAL VALUE) 


311 

312 

313 

.314 

313 

316 

317 

318 

319 


Duty Remarks 


Rs. At. 

Estate Duty payable on Total Value of property If wholly consisting 
of interest in Joint Hindu Family 

■ ^verage Rate pies in the rupee) 

Duty payable at the average rate 

Estate Duty payable on I'otal value of property if wholly consisting 

of other kind 

^verage Rate pies in the rupee) 

Duty payable at the average rate . . . 

Total Duty payable (A) 

(Aggregate Average Rate pies in the rupee) 


Amount Total 


Sums included in principal value on which Code Toint Otlier 

estate duty is not payable No. Hindu kind 

Family 


(a) Gifts for public charitable purposes 41 1 . 

(b) Gifts for any other purposes . 412 . 

(c) Moneys earmarked for the marriage of 

female relatives 4t3 ' 

(d) Insurance proceeds on the life of the 

deceased ...... 414 . 

(e) Agricultural lands in non-Schedulcd 

States 413 . 

(f) Interest in expectancy (Demand deferred 

u/s. 38) . .... 416 . 

(g) Proceed of Insurance Policy for paying 

Estate Duty ...... 417 . 

(h) Money deposited with Government for 

pa^ng Estate Duty. .... 418 . 

(i) Value items exempt under Section 33 (2) 


Total amount upon which relief is due and 
duty thereon (B) . . . . . 





Part IIHSec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INBIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


159 


Deduct — (a) Rebate on agricultural land, if any u/s 35(3) 

(b) Allowance for quick succession u/s. 31 

(c) Estate Duty paid in a reciprocating 
country u/s 30 . 

(d) Sums paid for obtaining probate u/s, 50 . 

Duty 

Code No. ^ 

Rs. As. 

5it 

512 

513 

514 


Total (C) 


Duty pftyable [A— (B +C)] 
Payments already made, if any ■ 
Balance payable/Rcfundable 


S15 

Interest charged on Rs 

Penalties charged 





Total sum payable / Refundable . 

Injwords — Rupees. 

Date. 


Date and number of notice of Demand/Refund Voucher 


Deductions allowed in arriving at the principal value of the property. 

(i) Funeral expenses 

Code No. Amount 

I 

(ii) Bona fide debts and encumbrances 

2 

fill) Dower debts ....... 

3 

(iv) Cost of administering or realizing foreign property 

4 

(v) Allowance for duty paid in a non- reciprocating 

5 

country ........ 

Total . 



Controller”. 

[No, 14/F. No. 12/4/66-E.D.] 
R. K. DAS. Secy. 


Explanatory Notes 

(This note is not part of the Rules or amendments but is iitended to indicate their general 

purport). 

Amendment No. 1.— As a consequence of the extension of the Estate Duty Act, 
1953, to the State of Jammu & Kashmir by the Taxation Laws (Extension to 
Jammu & Kashmir) Act, 1954, sub-rule (e) of rule 2 is no longer necessary. 

Amendment No. 2.— Under the original sub-rule (6) of Rule 14, 20 times the 
annual value as assessed for the purpose of land revenue is ordinarily to be taken 
as the basis of valuation of agricultural land for purposes of estate duty. The 
amendment seeks to avoid under-valuation of any aKicultural land where value 
ascertained on this basis has no relation to the present market value of the land. 



l6o THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, I960 [Part T 


^rnendme.nt No. 3. — The Idea behind this amendment is that^a copy the 
Memorandum of appeal will be available for transmission to the Controll* of 
Estate Duty concerned for his report which will Invariably be necessary before 
deciding the appeal filed before tne Board under Section 63 of the Estate t)uty 
Act, 1953. 

Amendments Nos. 4, 5, 7 and 8. — ^The rules as originally framed referred to 
insurance policies issued by insurance companies only. Since Postal Life Insurance 
Policies can also be taken out or assigned under Section 33(11 (f) of the Estate 
Duty Act, 1953, these amendments have been made to cover policies issued by any 
insurer. 

Amendment No. 6. — This new rule has been framed because it is the practice 
of insurance companies to insist on the production of the policy before the claim 
is met. While under sub-rule (1) of this rule all cases will come to the notice of 
the Department where the policies referred to therein have been taken out or 
assigned to the President of India, sub-rule (2) will facilitate settlement of the 
claim on the policy when it arises. 

Amendment No. 9. — Particulars furnished under sub-rule (1) of rule 35 will 
be helpful in maintaining a record of the policies referred to therein and those 
furnished under sub-rule (2) will enable the Controllers of Estate Duty to initiate 
necessary enquiries wih a view to finding out whether the estate of the deceased 
is likely to attract estate duty. 

Amendment No. 10.— (i) As rules 29 and 29A do not apply to statutory corpora- 
tions, the new rule 36 has been framed. This rule lays down the same particulars 
which have to be furnished by companies formed and registered under the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913. 

(ii) The particulars furnished under the new rule 37 will enable the Controller 
to make necessary enquiries to find out whether the estate of the deceased is liable 
to estate duty. 

Trustees of Provident Funds and Superannuation Funds are also persons 
accountable under Section 63(1) (b) of the Estate Duty Act for estate duty in 
respect of the sums standing to the credit of the deceased member participating 
in the Fund. Before paying the amount to the legal heirs of the deceased, the 
Trustees would, therefore, insist in appropriate cases, on the production of a 
certificate from the Controller to the eftect that the duty has been paid or will be 
paid or that none is due as the case may be. The particulars furnished under this 
rule would also ensure prompt action on the part of the Controller to settle the 
estate duty liability of the deceased. 

Amendment No. 11. — (i) (a) Provides space for addresses of the accountable 
persons submitting the accounts. 

(b) Adds the figures and brackets ‘(12)’ which refer to item (vli) (a) below. 

(ii), (ili), (iv), (v) & (vi). These amendments seek to exclude lease-hold 
property from the account of movable property and to include the same in the 
account of immovable property. 

(vii) (a) inserts a new note drawing attention to the fact that the declaration 
at page 3 of the Form of account E.D.l which is in the nature of an affidavit is 
liable to a stamp duty. 

(b) This amendment clarifies that the proceeds of insurance policies taken 
out or assigned to the Government for payment of estate duty and/or sums 
deposited for the same purpose shall not exceed Rs. 50,000 in the aggregate. This 
amendment is based on the amendments made in clauses (f) and (g) of sub- 
section (1) of Section 33 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, by Section 4 of the Finance 
Act, 1954, 

Amendment No. 12. — (i) Certificate in Form ED. 3 may issue in one of the three 
forms, namely: — 

(a) full estate duty has been paid; or 

(b) full estate duty will be paid; or 

(c) none is due. 

Where a certificate is Issued in form (c), this amendment substitutes the worda 
"no estate duty” for the word "none” so as to make the meaning clear. 



: n— Stip. 3] the gazette OP INDIA, FEBRUARY 11. 19M tfy 

^ - This amendment clarifies that the certificate unfier Section 60 of the Eetate 
Duty, ict, 1953, does not release the proijerty mentioned therein from the oharSO 
creatOT under Section 74 of the Act. 

Amendment No. 13 . — Adds the letters ‘G.I.R. No.’ which Is an abbreviation for 
“General Index Register No.” for the purpose of official reference. 

Amendment No. 14. — The “Asaessment/Refund Form” has been revised mainly 
for the purpose of collecting useful data and compiling essential statistics from the 
form itself without any fundamental changes. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

Rubber Oqntrol 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1056 

S.R.O. 290. — Shri P. N. Ramachandran, Secretary, Rubber Board has been 
granted leave for 90 days with effect from the forenoon of 8th December, 1066. 

On expiry of the leave, the services of Shri P. N. Ramachandran are replaced 
at the disposal of the Government of Orissa. 


[No. 38 (2) Plant/62.] 


S.R.O. ^1. — In pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 6A of the Rubber Act, 
1947 (XXrV of 1947), the Central Government is pleased to appoint Shri N. 
Krishna Plllai, Assistant Secretary to the Government of Travancore-Cochin as 
Sechetairiy, Rubber Board, Kottayiam with effect frtom the forenoon of 8th 
December 1966, vice Shri P. N, Ramachandran. 


[No. 28 (11) Plant/66.] 

S.R.O. 292. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub- 
section (3) of section 4 of the Rubber Act, 1047 (JtXIV of 1947) read with 
sub-rule (2) of rule 3 of the Rubber Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby 
nominates I Shri P. P, I, Vaidyanathan, I.C.S., Director of Agriculture, Madras, 
to be a member of the Rubber Board in the vacancy caused ny the resignation 
of Shri M S. Sivaraman, I.C.S. and makes the following amendment in the 
notification' of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry, No. S.R.O. 1765, dated the 10th August, 1955, namely: — 

In the said notification, for the entry 

“(1) Shri M. S. Sivaraman, I.C.S., Director of Agriculture, Madras — 
nominated by the Government of Madras”, 
the following entry shall be substituted, namely 

“(1) Shri P. P. I. Vaidyanathan, I.C.S., Director of Agriculture, Madras — 
nominated by the Government of Madras.” 

[No. 20 (4) Plant/55.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1966 

S.R.O. 293. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Forward 
Contracts (Regulation) Act 1962 (LXXIV of 1952), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri D. N. Mahta as full time Member of the Forward Markets 
Commission, ./Bomliay. 

[No. /'25/7/Estt.C/56.] 
G. RAMANATHAN, Dy, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7ih February 1956 

S.R.O. 294. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 read with sub- 
section (2) of Section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1966 (10 of 1965), the 



i62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. FEBRUARY 11, 1966 [Part II— Sec. Jf*--"' 


Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the Cotton 
Textiles (Control) Order, 1948, namely: — 

In the said Order, clause 19 shall be omitted. 

[No. 8(3)^CT(A)/65-6.I 
S. K. PAL, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Inatltutlon) 

Delhi, the I'jthJanuary 1956 

S.R.O. 29s, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-regulation (i) of regulation 3 ot the 
Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, i 955 j the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution hereby notifies the issue of errata slips, detailed in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed, 
in respect of the Indian Standard specified in column (2) of the said Schedule. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. No. and title of Indian Standard 
(I) (2) 


No. and date of 
Gazette Notification 

in which estabhsh- Particulars of Errata Slips issued 
ment of the Indian 
Standard was notified 

(3) (4) 


IS: 511-1954 Specification for S. R. O. 658, dated the At page 2, clause 21, line i. 
Tamarind Kernel Powder for 26th March 1955. read sample ’/or ‘ samples', 

use in the Jute Textile In- At page 3, clause 2 4, fines 5 and 

dustry {Tentative). o from the end, read, 'sample' 

for ' specimen ’. 

At page 4, clause B-i'i, fourth 
item of Ingredients, read 
‘ B-Naphthol ’ for ‘ Beta- 
Naphthol ’. 

At pages 6 and 7, fine i of clauses 
D-i-i, D-5'I and D-6-i, 
read ‘ sample ’ ^ ‘ powder ' . 

At page 7, clause D-5- 3, line 2, 
read ‘ dried sample ^ for ‘ dry 
powder ’. 


Copies of this errata slip are available, free of cost, from the Secretary (Administration), Indian 
Standards Institution, 19 University Road, Civil Lines, Delhi-8. 

D. V. KARMARKAR 
Deputy Director (Marks.) 

Indian Standards Istitution. 

[No. MDC/ii(4).] 

S. R. O. 296. — In pursuance of sub-regulation (l) of regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Insti- 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies 
that the Indian Standards, particulars of which arc given in the Schcdule hereto annexed, have been 
cancelled. 

The Schedule 


SI. 

No. and title of the Indian Standard 

No. and date of Gazette Notification in which 

No. 

cancelled 

establishment of the Indian 



Standard was notified 

(I) 

(2) 

(3) 


IS : 29-1950 ^ccification for Aluminium 
Sheets and Coils for Aircraft Purposes . 

S. R. 0. 658, dated the 26th March 1955. 

2, 

IS : ^8-1953 Specification for Unified Screw 
Threads 

S. R. 0, 658, dated the 26th March 1955. 


D. V. KARMARKAR 
Deputy Director (Marks.) 
Indian Standards Institution. 


[No. MDC/ii(4).j 




Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 


163 


Delhi, the 1 st February 1956 

S.R.O. 297 .— In pursuance of sub-rcgulatJona ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan- 
dards Institution (Certification Marks) ReguIationSj 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifies that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, 
have been established during the period i6th to 3 t 8 t January, 1956 . 


The Schedule 

No. and title of the Indian 
Standard or Standards, if 

SI. No. and title of the Indian any, superseded by the Brief Particulars 

No, Standard established new Indian Standard 


123 4 


I IS ; 553-1955 Specifi- 
cation for Rosin (Gum 
Rosin). 


This standard covers the re- 
quirements and methods of 
test for rosin or gum rosin 
obtained from the oleo-resin 
of pine. The material has 
been classified into three types, 
namely pale, medium and 
dark and is principally used 
in paper, soap, paint, var- 
nish, rubber and polish in- 
dustries. {Price Rs. 1/8/-). 


Copies of this standard are available for sale with the Secretary (Administration), Indian 
Standards Institution, 19, University Road, Delhi-8. 

D. V. Karm kar. 

Deputy Director (Marks), 

Indian Standards Institution. 


[No. MDC/ii( 4).] 
B. B. BENJAMIN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi-2, the 31sf January 1950 

S.R.O. 298. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub- 
section (1) of section 8 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (JCXVII of 1933), 
the Central Government hereby nominates Dr. G. L. Sharma, M.B., B.S., M.D. 
(Med.), M.D. (Path.), Nagpur, as a member of the Medical Coimcll of India vice 
Dr. T. D. Shahanl, 


[No. F.5-23/56-MI(Pt.II).] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 3l8t January 1956 

S.R.O. 299. — The Central Ministries of Food & Agriculture and Railways having 
nominated, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) 
of section 3 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, 1964 (37 of 1954), Shrl 
V. P. Anantanarayanan, Senior Marketing Officer, Directorate of Marketing and 
Inspection, Ministry of Food & Agriculture and Dr. B, Lall Officer on Special 
uuty (Medical), Railway Board, as members representing them in the Central 
Committee for Food Standards, in the vacancies caused by the resimation of 
Dr. M. B, Ghatge, Agriculture Marketing Adviser, Ministry of Pood & Agriculture 




164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 19B0 [Part II— Skc, a 


and Dr. L, N. Goel, Chief Medical Officer, Northern Railway, respectively, the 
following amendments are made in the notification of the Gfovernment of India, 
in the Ministry of Health, No. S.R.O, 1236, dated the 1st June, 1055, namely: — 

In the said notification— 

(1) for the entry “6. Dr. M. B. Ghatge, Agriculture Marketing Adviser, 

Ministry 01 Food & Agrlcuture, New Delhi”, the entry “5. Shri V, P. 
Anantanarayanan, Senior Marketing Officer, Directorate of Marketing 
and Inspection, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi” shall be 
substituted; and 

(2) for the entry "7. Dr, L. N. Goel, Chief Medical Officer, Northern Railway, 

New Delhi” the entry ”7. Dr. B. Lall, Officer on Special Duty 
(Medicall, Railway Board, New Delhi” shall be substituted. 

[No. F.41-44/66-PH.] 

BABU BAM, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 3rd February 1966 

S.R.O. 800. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article -309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for regulat- 
ing the recruitment to the Central Services, Class I and Class II in the College 
of Nursing, New Delhi: — 

Part I— General 

1. These rules may be called the College of Nursing (Central Services, Class 

I and Class II) Recruitment Rules, 1965. 

2. For the purpose of these rules: — 

(a) ‘Government' means the Government of India. 

(b) ‘The Commission' means the Union Public Service Commission. 

(c) ‘The Service’ means the Central Service Class I and the Central 

Service Class II in the College of Nursing, 

(d) ‘Scheduled Castes’ mean any castes, communities, races, sects, etc., 

notified as such by the President of'' India. 

(e) ‘Scheduled Tribes’ mean castes communities, races, sects, etc., notified 

as such by the President of India. 

3. Recruitment to the Service shall be made by the following methods: — 

(ij By selection in accordance with Part II of these rules. 

(ii) By promotion in accordance with Part III of these rules. 

4. (a) Appointments to posts in Central Service, Class I (mentioned in 
Schedule of Appendix I), shall be made normally by selection as specified in 
Part II of these rules. 

(b) Appointments to posts in Central Service, Class II (mentioned in Schedule 

II of Appendix I) shall be made as specified below; — 

(i) Appointments to posts which are included in catego^ I of Schedule II 

shall be made normally by proqiotion of suitable officers from Central 
Service Class III (Gazetted) included in Schedule III as specified in 
Part III of these Rule.s. 

(ii) Appointments to the posts which are included in category II of 

Schedule II shall be ordinarily made by selection as specified in 
Part II of these Rules. 

(c) If, however, at any time, it is not possible to make appointments to posts 
included in category I by promotion according to clause (b) (I) of this rule, due 
to the non-availability of suitable candidates, or for any other reason, appoint- 
ments shall be made by selection as specified in Part II of these Rules. 

5. (a) Subject to the provisions of rules 3 and 4, Government shall determine 
the methods to be employed for the purpose of filling any particular vacancies 
or such vacancies as may require to be filled during any particular period and 
the number of candidates to be recruited by each method. 


Part II— Se^-, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, .1966 


165 


(h) The various grades of posts Included In the service, the pay scales attach- 
ed to thenu their classification and the special conditions of service attaching 
to them shall be as indicated in Appendix I to these Rules, 

6. Appointments to the service made otherwise than by promotion will be 
subject to tfie orders issued from time to time by the Ministry of Home Affairs 
regarding special representation in the Services for specific sections of the people. 

Part II— Recruitment by Selection 

7. A candidate for admission to the selection must apply before such date, 
in such form, and in such manner as may be prescribed oy the Commission, 

8. (a) A candidate must be either: — 

(i) a citizen of India, or 

(ii) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(iii) a person who has migrated from areas which now form Pakistan, 
with the intention of permanently settling in India, or 

(iv) a subject of 'Nepal or of a Portuguese or a former French possession 
in India. 

Note 1. — Thq appointment of a candidate falling in category (lil) or (iv) 
above will be subject to the issue of a certificate of eligibility in his favour by 
the Government of India. Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be neces- 
sary in the case of candidates belonging to any of the following categories:-^ 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July, 

1948 and have ordinarily been resident in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July, 

1948 but before the 30th September. 1948 and got themselves regis- 
tered as citizens of India within the time allowed. 

(3) Non-citizens who entered service under 'the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution, viz., 26th January, 
1950, and- who have continued in such service since then. Any such 



eligibility in the usual way. 

Note 2. — (a) A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is neces- 
sary may be admitted to the selection and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being issued in his favour by Government. 

(b) A candidate must be within the age limits specified in Appendix II. 

Note. — (1) The upper age limit will be relaxable upto a maximum period of 

five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe. 

(2) Candidates who are bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan will be 
allowed the ago concessions which Government may sanction for such persons 
from time to time. 

(3) The Commission may relax the upper age limits upto three years in excep- 
tional circumstances. 

(c) A candidate must possess the Qualifications and/or experience specified 
in Appendix II to these rules; provided that in exceptional cases the Commission 
may, on the recommendation of the Government, treat as a qualified candidate, 
a candidate who, though he has not all or any of the qualifications prescribed in 
those rules, has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a standard 
which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission. 

(d) A candidate must satisfy the Commission and the appointing authority 
that his/her character and antecedents are such as to make him/her suitable for 
appointment to the Service. 

9. The decision of the Commission on the question whether a candidate does, 
or does not, satisfy any of the requirements of rule 8 shall be final. 

10. Government may modify or waive any of the requirements of rule 8(a), 
(b) and (c) when it is not practicable to obtain a suitable candidate who fulfils 
all the requirements of rule 8. 



J } 


GA, 


OF , 


A ,L 11, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


A, . 


11. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
p^sical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his/her duties as an 
officer of the Service. A candidate, who (after such physical examination as 
Government or the appointing authority, as the case may be, may prescribe) is 
found not to satisfy those requirements, will not be appointed. 

12. A candidate must, at the time of application pay such fee as Government 
after consulting the Commission may from time to time prescribe and candidates 
must submit such proofs of their qualifications as the Commission may require. 

13. (a) Appointments to the Service shall be made on probation for a period 
of one year. 

(b) On the conclusion of his/her period of ■ probation. Government may con- 
firm the officer in his/her appointment. If, however during or at the end pf the 
probationary period his/her work or conduct has in the opinion of Government 
been unsatisfactory. Government may either discharge him/her or extend his/ 
her period of probation for such further period as they think fit, provided that 
before orders of discharge are passed the probationer shall be apprised by the 
competent authority of the grounds on which it is proposed to discharge him/ 
her and given an opportunity to show cause against it. 

(c) If no action is taken by Government under sub-rule (b) of this rule, the 
period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engagement 
from month to month terminable on either side, on the expiration of one calendar 
month’s notice in writing. 

(d) If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Govern- 
ment to any officer, that officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
under this rule. 


Part III — Hechtjitmemt by Promotion 

14. (a) Recruitnient by promotion to Class II (Category I of Schedule II of 
Appendix I) shall be made from among the officers in Central Service Class III 
(Gazetted) Included In Schedule III of Appendix I. 

(b) Recruitment by promotion to Selection posts in the Service shall be made 
by selection on merit on the recommendations of a duly -constituted DepartmeTttal 
ProT^ti^ Committee. In cases where a Member of tne Commission is included 
^ the Departmental Promotion Committee, he shall act as Chairman. The 
Officer (s) selected will be appointed b^ Government or by an officer under rule 
16 below. 

16. If the power to make appointments in the service is delegated by Govern- 
ment to any officer, that officer may exercise any powers of Government under 
this Part of these rules. 


Appi'ndix I 


Designation of post 

Scale of pay 

Uniform 

allowarce 

Messing 

allowance 

Dhobi 

allowance 

Dearness 

allowance 


p.m. 

p.m. 

p.m. 

p.m. 

p.m. 

1 

1 

3 

4 

5 

6 


Schedule I (Central Service Class Posts) 

1. Principal Rs. 8oo — ^40 — 1000 — .. .. At usual rate 

1000 — 1050 — 1050— 

1100 — iroo — 1150 

2. Director, Child Rs. 600 — 40 — 1000 . . . . . ■ Do. 

Guidance CUnic 

3. Vicc-Principal I Rs. 350 — 350—380 . . . . ■ • Do, 

380 — 30— 590— EB 
—30—770—40—850 
Do. 


4,lVicc-Principal 


Do. 






Pabt n— Sec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. FEBRUAHY 11 , 1950 167 


I 

2 

3 4 

5 

0 

Schedule II — {Central Service, Class II Posts) 




Category I 





Rs. as. p. Rs. as. p. 

Rs. as. p. 


I. Senior Sister Tutor I 

Rs. 320 — 20 — 400 

0 

0 

0 

0 

CO 

480 

At half the 





usual rate. 

2. Senior SisterTutor II 

Do. 

Do. Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

3. Public HeaUh Teacher 

Do, 

Do. Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

4. Ward Teaching 





Sister-in-Charge 

Do. 

Do, Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


Category H 

1. Assistant Surgeon Rs, 260 — 15 — ^440 — ■ .. .. .. At usual me. 

Edwina Mountbattcn 20 — 500 — pirn 20% 

Mobile Nursing of pay as Non-prac- 

tising allowance. 

,2. Dietitian . Ra. 275 — 25— 500— EB 

—30^50 — EB— 

30 — 800. 

3. Lecturer in English Rs. 200 — 15 — 290 — 20 

—410 — 25 — 560 

4. Lecturer in Psychology Do. 850 

5. Lecturer in Hindi Do, 

Schedule III-~Central Service, Class Jll-ifiazetted) Scales of Pay 

1. Sister Tutors . Rs. 200 — 'lo — 300 850 50 00 480 Half the 

usual rate. 

2. Sister Tutor . , Do, Do. Do Do. Do. 

(Midwife^) 

3. Sister Sintcrvisor Do. Do. Do. Do Do. 

for Rural Work. 

4. Sister Supervisor Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 

for Urban work. 

5. Ward Teaching Rs 150 — 7 — 185 — 8 — Do. Do. Do. Do. 

Sister. — 225. 

^ 5 . Ward Teaching Sister Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 

(Midwifc.y). 

7. Assistant Supervisor Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 

for Rural Work. 

8. Assistant Supervisor Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 

for Urban Work. 

9. Assistant for Public Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. 

Health. 


Appendix II 

Qualifications and age limits prescribed for various Class I and Class II Posts in the College 
Nursing, New Delhi. 


Name of the Post Qualifications, experience and age limits required 

I 2 

Essential: 

(i) Principal, Glass I . . (0 A Master’s Degiee in Nursing, 

(iO Registered Nurse and Midwife. 

(lit) About 10 year’s teaching experience of wnich about 
8 years should be in an administrative capacity. 
Desirable: 

Post-Gradbatc qualification in Nursing either General 
or Public Health. 

Age : — ^Below 45 years. 




i68 


gAzETTE of FEBRUARY 11, igS6 [PAM ti— gi;d. 3 


1 2 


Essential 

(«0 Director, Child Guidance Clinic (i) A Master’s Ecttce or equivtlei t qiulif ci.iit ii in 
Class . Psychology. 

(ii) About 2 years’ experience of work connected with 
the Child Guidance Clinics and/or Mental Hy- 
gienic Clinic, 

(in) About 3 years’ teaching experience In Colltgc o f 
Nursing Schocl. 

(it)) Some Administrative experience, 
egc Between 35 and 45 years. 

(iiij Vice-Principal I (Nursing Edi ca- (i) A Master's degree in Nursing of a recognised Uni- 
tion; Class I. versity (Nursing Education). 

(ii) Registered Nurse and Midwife. 

(iii) About 5 years’ teaching experience. 

Age ; — Below 45 years. 

(iv) Vice Principal II (Public Health) (i) A Master’s degree in Nursing of a recogniftd Uni- 
Class I. versity (Nursing Education of Public Htchh Nur- 

sing). 

(h) Registered Nurse and Midwife. 

(Hi) About five years’ leaching experience including 
expenence of Public Health Nursing. 

Age Below 45 years. 

(u) Senior Sister Tutor I (Class II (i) A 2nd Cla.ss B.Sc., (Hons.) degree in Nursing or a 
Category I). ist Class B.Sc., degree in Nursing. 

(ii) A registered Nurse and Alidwife. 

(Hi) Five Years’ teaching experience in Nursing, 

(iv) Sister Tutor’s certificate or pdvenced study in 
Nursing Education Master’s degree desirable. 

(v) Three years’ practical experience of hospital i i:d 
Public Health Nursing desirable. 

Age : — Below 35 Years. 

(vi) Senior Sister Tutor II (Class (i) A 2nd Class B, Sc. (Hons), degree in Nursing or a 

II Category I), tsi Class B.Sc. degree in Nursing. 

(ii) A registered Nurse and Midwife. 

(Hi) Posr graduate qualifications in Nursing Educatien 
desirable. 

(iv') Administrative experience as a Matron in a hospital 
0(200 beds or more. 

(v) At least 5 years’ teaching experience desirable. 

Age Below 35 Years. 

(vii) Public Health Teacher IClass (0 A 2nd Class B.Sc. tHons.') degree in Nurtir.v or it 

II Category I) 1st Class B.Sc. degree in Nurting, 

tit) A registered Nurse and Midwife. 

(iii) Advanced training, in Public Ileulth Nursing. 
A Masters’ degree desirable, 

(iv) Five Years’ e.xcprienee ii? Public Health Nursing, 
Age : — ^Hclow 35 years, 

(t'ht) Ward Teaching Sister in- fi't A 2nd Class B.Sc (Hons.) dcgiee in Nursing or a 
charge Class II Category I ist Class B.Sc, degree in Nursing. 

(ii) A registered Nurse or Midwife. 

(Hi) Post graduate qualifications in Nursing Educatien. 
(iv) Five years Nursing experience which at least 3 
years’ should he spent as a Ward Teaching Sister, 
Age : — ^Bclow 35 years. 

(tx) Assistant Surgeon, Edwina (0 Should be a registered Aledical Graduate possessing 
Mountbatten Mobile Nursing a qualification included in one of the schedules to the 

Clinic. (Class II Category IT) Indian Medii-al Council Act, 1933, 

(iV) About 2 years’ experience in the profession either 
In a hospital or a dispensary. 

Desirable : 

Post-graduate qualifications and experience in Public 
Heath, 

Age : — Below 35 years. 



Part 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY II, 1806 


169 


Eaentiah 

(a:) Dietition. (ClaM II Category (>) A Maater’a degree, at least Second Clas^, in Home 
II). Economics with specialisation in Nutrition. 

(it) A good knowledge of Nutrition In India and an 
understanding of diet in diseases. 


Desirable i 

f«P Teaching cjtperltnce of at lei^t ohe yiki. 

(it) Ei^rierice In the dietetic Departmtht of a Htiip ta 
Age : — Below 35 years. 

Essential'. 

(xi) Lecturer in English (Class II (0 At least a Second Class M.A. or 3 gears’ I^Oitours 
Category II). degree in English of a recognised University. 

(it) Aboilt 3 years teaching experience. 

Desirable: 

Experience of teaching English to degree students. 
Age : — Below 35 years. 

Essential: 



Lecturer in Psychology (Class 
1 Category II). 


A first Class Master’s or equivalent Honours degree in 
Psychology preferably with some previous teaching: 
experience, OR, a Second Class Master’s or equivalent 
Honours degtee in Psychology with about five years' 
teaching expe-ience. 


Desirable: 

(0 Degree or diploma in Education. 

(if) Experience of teaching preferably in Psychology. 

Hit) Post-graduate diploma in Child Guidance. 

Age : — Below 35 years, 

(xii'O Lecturer in Hindi (Class II Essential: 

Category II) (0 At least 2nd Class Master’s degree in Hindi of a 

recognised University. 

(it) About 5 years’ experience of teaching Hindi in 
colleges to the degree classes. 


Desirable: 

(i) Honours in Hindi-Prabhakar qualification 1 nd 
knowledge of Sanskrit up to degree standard ), 
(n) Degree or diplomS in teaching. 

Age : — Below 35 years. 


Appendix III 

Details of concession in age limits to displaced persons from Pakistan 

Tho upper age limit prescribed in the Rules will be relaxable upto a maximum 
of 3 years if the candidate is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan and 
upto a maximum of 6 years if the candidate belongs to a scheduled caste or a 
scheduled tribe and is also a displaced person from Pakistan. 

The above concessions are liable to change as sanctioned by Government from 
time to time. 


Appendix IV 

Special conditions of service relating to promotion, seniority, leave, etc. 

(i) Selected candidates shall be required to serve normally at Delhi. 

(ii) Officers appointed to the service will be debarred from private practice 
or giving tuition, 

[No. F.3-21/61-MI(MII),I 
A. V, VENKATASUBBAN, Dy. Secy. 



170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA. FEBRUARY 11, 1950 [Part II— Sec. 3 


MmiSTRT OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1966 

S.R.O. 301. — The following draft of certain further amendments in the 
Calcutta Port Rules, published with the notification of the Government of India 
In the late War Transport Department No. 0-P(lO)/42, dated the 3rd December 
1943, which the Central Government proposes to make In exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 
1908), is published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section, for the 
information of aU persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 6th March 1956. 

2. Any objefctions or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft , Amendments 


In the said rules — 

(1) to rule 61, the following proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that no fiat or boat required to be registered under the Registra- 
tion of Barges Rules, 1962 shall be registered and licensed by the 
Commissioners, unless it nas been registered by the Registering 
Authority, Government of West Bengal and has had her registered 
number branded according to the provisions of the said Registration 
of Barges Rules, 1962, and no number shall be branded on such flat 
or boat by the Comnilssioners’ Boat Surveyor.”; 

(2) for rule 66 (d), the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(d) the registered number branded on the flat or boat by the Commissioners’ 
Boat Surveyor, or the registered number marked according t» the 
provisions of the Registration of Barges Rules, 1952, and”; 

(3) in the last paragraph of rule 67, after the words “Every flat or boat so 
licensed” at the commencement, the following shall be inserted, namely: — 

“other than a flat or boat required to be registered under the Registration 
of Barges Rules, 1982". 


[No. 9-PI(2ai)/55.] 
K. NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


Ministry of Natural Resonrcee and Scientific Research 
New Delhi, the 1st February 1956 

S.B.O. 302. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Reflation and Development) Act 1948 (LIII of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Mineral Concession 
Rules, 1949, namely: — 

In rule 58 of the said Rules, for the words “Imperial Bank of India", the 
words “State Bank of India” shall be substituted. 

[No. MII-169(16)/5S.] 

G. C. JERATH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(Posts and Telegraphs) 

New Delhi-2, the 28#i January 1966 

S.R.O. SOS. — In exercise of the ijowers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 7 
of the Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1950 (LXXTV of 1990), the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following amendments shaU be made 





vi tl— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUAHY 11, 1956 


171 


In the schedule appended to the notification of the Ministry of Communications 
(Posts and Telegraphs Department), No. S.R.O. 473, dated the 7th March, 1952: — 
Under "Madhya Pradesh’’ in column 1 of the said schedule for the terms 
“Sub-Inspector of Police” and “Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police” the 
term “Station Officer” shall be substituted. 


[No. NM.6-14/54.1 
V. M. BHIDE, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1960 

S.R.O. 301. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire certain evacuee properties in the State of Bombay for a public purpose 
being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, 
Including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the .sub-Section (1) of 
Section 12 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954) it is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire, 
and hereby acquires, the evacuee properties .specified In the Schedule hereto 
annexed; 


The Schedule 


All rural plots in village abadis in the State of Bombay, that is to say, plots 
situated in any area in that State outside the limits of a corporation, a munici- 
pality, a municipal committee, a notified area committee, town area or a small 
town committee or a cantonment as those limits existed on the 15th August, 1947, 
which have been declared or deemed to have been declared as evacuee properties 
under the Admini.stration of Evacuee Property Act, (XXXI of 1960) except 
all such properties falling under any one or more of the following categories, 
that is to say: 


(1) any such property — 

(i) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this nolifleation under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1960), in which the question at issue is 
whether the property is or is not evacuee property; or 

(ii) in respect of which the’ period of limitation, if any, fixed for filing an 

appeal or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of 
the property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired; 

(2) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub-Section (1) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1960 iXXXI of 1950), is pending at the date of this Notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application 
has not expired; 

(3) any such property which has been restored under section 10 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), or tn respect of 
which an application under sun-section (2) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notification, or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub-section (1) of that section has been granted but no application under sub- 
section (2) of that Section for Its restoration has been made; 

(4) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act. 1950 (XXXI of 1960), or in respect of which any pro- 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section; 

(5) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest 'Separation) Act. 1951 (LXXv of 1951); 


(0) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not; 

(7) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated or 
is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a reUglous or 
charitable nature under sub-section (1) of Section II of the Administration of the 
Evacuee Property Act, 1960 (XXXI of 1960) . 


[No. sm-4(0)/65.] 



1^2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 [Pakt II— Sec. 3 


New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 

SjLO, 305.— In exercise of the powers , coijf erred by aub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 19M) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Hari Krishen as 
AsMstant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act. with effect from the date he 
took chirge of his post. 

[No. 6/5/66-SII.] 


New Delhi, the 3rd February '1956 

S.B.O. 306. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (11 of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964 ^44 of 
1964), the Central Government hereby appoints the following officers as Settle- 
ment Officers for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer, 
by or under the said Act, with effect from the date each took charge of hia 
office; — 

(i) Shri S. S. Sharma, District Relief and Rehabilitation Offlcer-cum-Settle- 

ment Officer, Bareilly, 

(ii) Shri B. B. Lai Bhardwah District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer- 

cum-Settlement Officer, Dehradun. 

[No. 6/5/56-5.11. J 

S.R.O. 307. — In supersession of the notification of the Government of India! 
in the Ministry of Rehabilitation No. F.10(109)S.I/65, dated the 2ffih June, 1955;, 
the Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of 
sub-section (2) of 'Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and 
Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954) hereby appoints, every officer for the 
time being holding the post of Revenue Divisional Officer on general duty in 
mufasaal, Assistant Superintendent of Stamps in Madras and the District Collector. 
Nilgiris to be the Managing Officer for the custody, management and disposal 
of compensation pool within his Jurisdiction. 


[No. 1014/50-S.lI.l 
M. L. PURI, Under Secy.. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 4t/i February 1956 

S.R.O. 308/BDWS/Am.(5)/56. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (1) of Section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 
1948 (IX of 1948), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 
1951, the same having been previously published as required by the said sub- 
section. namely: — 


Amendment 

After clause 40 of the said Scheme, the following clause shall be inserted, 
namely; — 

“40-A, Special provisions for action in an emergency . — (1) If at any time the 
Chairman of the Board is satisfied that an emergency has arisen which will 
seriously affect the working of the port, he may, by order in writing and for such 
period as he may from time to time specify therein, make a declaration to that 
effect: 

Provided that no such declaration shall be made except with the previous 
approval of the Central Government. 

(2) So long as an order under sub-clause (11 is in force, the following provi- 
sions shall apply, namely: — 

(i) If any allegation is made that a I'egistered employer haS failed to carr.y 
out the provisions of the Scheme, the Chairman may, after holding a summary* 



Part ll— Skc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 173 


Inquiry into the allegation, take any of the following steps as regards that 
employer, that Is to say, he may — 

(a) give the registered employer a warning in writlpg, pr 

(b) direct that the name of the registered employer shall be removed 

forthwith from the employers’ register either permanently or for such 
period as he may determine. 

(iij If any allegation of indiscipline, “go-slow” or mis-conduct is made against 
a regfatered dock worker, the Chairman may suspend hint forthwith pending 
Inquiiy, hold a summary inquiry into the allegation and take any one or more 
of the following steps against that worker, that is to say, he may— 

(a) determine that for such period as he thinks proper, that worker shall 

not be entitled to any payment under clause 34, 

(b) give him a warning in writing, 

(c) suspend him without pay for a period not exceeding three months, 

(d) give him fourteen days’ notice of termination, or 

(e) dismiss him. 

(3) The provisions of the Scheme relating to disciplinary action against regis- 
tered employers and registered dock workers shall not apply to any order passed 
by the Chairman under paragraph (i) or paragraph (ii) of sub-clause (2). 

(4) No appeal shall lie from any order passed by the Chairman under para- 
graph (i) or paragraph (ii) of sub-cIaUsd' (2). 

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Scheme, so long as an order 
under sub-clause (1) is in force, the Chairman may authorise the employment 
Of unregistered workers directly by registered employers and payment to such 
unregistered workers directly.” 

[No. F, Fac, 73(87)/56.] 
K, N. NAMBIAR, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1966 

8.R.O. 309. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Motor and General 
Insuranre Company, Limited, Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto Annexed, 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication, 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (XIV of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby refers the' said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under sectioin 7 
of the said Act. 


The Schedule 

Whether the dismissal of Shri Shibendra Mohan Majumder was justified and/or 
the relief if any, to be granted to him. 


[No. LR-ll(l)/66.] 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4lh February 1956 

8.R.O. 310. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Parasea Collieries 
Limited and the South Parasea Collieries Limited and 1heir workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 




174 the gazette of INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1966 [Part IJ— Sec. 3 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (jcIV of 1947), the 
Centr^ Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal at Dhanbad constituted under section 7 of the said Act, 

Thk Schedule 

termination of the services of certain Mining Sirdars in January 
1066 was justified and, if not, what relief should be granted to them. 

[No. LR-II-56-l(l)/56-I.] 

S.B.O. 311. — Whereas by an order of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. LR-II-65-l(l)/56-I, dated the 4th February 1956, an industrial 
mspute between the employers in relation to the Parasea Collieries Limited and 
the South Parasea Collieries Limited and their workmen has been referred to 
an Industrial Tribunal for adjudication; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the Central Govern- 
ment hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence in the Parasea 
Collieries and the South Parasea Collieries. 

[No. LR-II-66-l(l)/56-lI.] 

K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 

SJl.O. 312. — In the annexure to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, No, S.R.O, 3075 dated the 30th December 1954, published 
on pages 2593 to 2595 in Part II Section 3 of the Extraordinary Gazette of India 
dated the 30th December. 1964 the following corrections shall be made: — 

Under Zone I — Southern Command 
for Lonavlai read Lonavla 
Under Zone II — Southern Command 
for Krishnarajapuram read Krishnarajapuram 
Under Zone II — Eastern Command 
for Mahaurl read Manauri. 

[No. LWI 7(32)66.] 

F. M. NATHANIEL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi-2, the 6th February 1956 

S.R.O. 313. — It is hereby notified for general information that the names of 
the following members of the first Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at &)mbay having been determined by lot under the proviso to sub-rule 
(1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorsphlp) Rules, 1951 the said members 
shall retire with effect from the 11th February, 1956; — 

1. Shri M, M. Begg; 

2. Shrimati B, Tarabai. 

[No. 14/1/66-FC.] 

S.B.O. 314. — In exrcise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951 read with sub-rule (3) of :mle 
10 of the said rules, the Central Government hereby re-appomts after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors the following persons as members of 
the Advisory Panel of the said Board of Bombay with effect from the 11th 
February, 1966: — 

1. Shri M. M. Begg; 

2. Shrimati B. Tarabai. 


[No. 14/1/66-FC.] 



Part U— pEC. 8> THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 11, 1960 


175 


New Delhi-2, the 7th February 1966 

S.B.O. 316, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 5 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1962 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the film entitled “The Treasure of Pancho Villa” and its trallor 
produced by the R.K.O. Radio Pictures Inc., U.S.A. shall be deemed to be 
uncertified film in the whole of India. 

[No. 8/26/55-FC.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi-2, the 6th February 1950 

S.B.O. 316. — In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the 
provisions of each of the enactments specified In the First Schedule to the Order 
of the Government of India in the Mhilstry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S.R.O. 945, dated the 28th April, f956 the Central Government with previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby certifies films specified 
In column 2 of the schedule hereto annexed in all their language versions, to 
be of the description specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 
5 of the said schedule. 


Schedvlb 


S. No. Title of the Film 


I 


2 


Name of the 
Producer 


3 


Source of Whether a scientific film or all 
Supply film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing with 
news and current events or a 
documentary film. 

4 5 


1. Indian News Revlety 

No. 381. 

2. Villages and Women 

3. Kheda Operation 

4. Spring in Kashmir 


Government of Government Film dealing with news and 


India, Films 
Division, 
Bombay. 

of India. 

Films- Divi- 
sion, Bombay. 

current events. 

Do. 

Do. 

Documentary film 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 


[No. 14/2/60-FD: App/70.] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


PIUINTED in INDIA BY THE MANAGER, GOVT. OP INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 




