R EGISTERED No. P. 22» 


^he 


(gazette 




Enbia 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 24] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1956 

NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 9th June 
1956:— 


issue 

No. 

No. and date 

1 

Issued by 

Subject 

170 

S.R.O. 1288, dated the 1st 
June, 19J6. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry 

Grant of recognition to the 
Om Exchange Limited, Delhi, 
in respect of forward con- 
tracts m groundnut oil. 

171 

S.R.O. 1289, dated the 31st 
May, 1956. 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 

The Central Government certi- 
fies a film to be of the descrip- 
tion specified therein. 

172 

S.R.O. 1290, dated the 31st 
May, 1956. 

Election Commission 
India, 

Amendment made in the notifi- 
cation No. 100/1/31/56 (2), 
dated the 5th May, 1956. 


S.R.O. 1291, dated the 31st 
May, 1956 

Ditto 

Amendment made in the noti- 
fication No. 100//1/31/36 (I), 
dated the 5th May, 1956 

173 

S.R.O. 1292, dated the 29th 
May, 1956 

Ditto 

Amendment made in the 
notification No. 62/26/51-EIec. 
II (3), dated the 5th November, 
1951. 

174 

S.R.O. 1293, dated the 4th 
June, T956 

Government of Ajmer 

The District Board of the State 
of Ajmer shall consist of 44 
members. 


S.R.O. 1294, dated the 4th 
June, 1956. 

Ditto 

List of members of the District 
Board of the State of Ajmer. 

175 

S.R.O. 1295, dated the 2nd 
June, 1956 

Eelection Commis- 
sion, India. 

Amendment made in the noti- 
fication No. 62/26/51-Elec. II 
(3), dated the 5th November 
1951 - 

176 

S.R.O., 1343, dated the 4th 
June, 1956 

Ditto 

1 

i 

Appointment of members of the 
Election Tribunal constituted 
for the trial of the petition 
presented by Shri Rikhab 

Chand against the election of 
Maulana Abdul Shakoor as 
Member of the Council of 
State. 



( IOO5 ) 



1006 

THE GAZETTE 

OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1(156 [Pabt II— Sfic. 3 

Issue 

No, 

"No* and dole 

Issued bv 

1 

Subject 

J77 

S.R.O. 1344, dated the 7 Lh 
June tysfi. 

Ministry ol Finance J 
l Revenue Division). 

1 

Exemption of exhaust fans, when 
imported, from so much of 
customs dim as in excess spe- 
cified therein. 


S.R.O., 1345. dated the 7 th 
June, 1956 

Ditto 

Amendment made in the 

notification No. 64-Customs, 
dated the 2nd April 1955. 

I 7 x 

S.R.O. 1346, dated the 8th 
June 1956 

i 

Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture. 

i 

' ! 

j The Central Government 

authorises the Collector ot 

1 Bijnor to exercise. with 

respect to the Shiv Pra- 
sad Banarsidas Sugar Mills, 
control for purpose of pro- 
duction of Sugar. 

179 

1 

S.R.O. 1347 , dated the 7 lh 
June 195a 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 

The Central Government cert - 
lies a film* to be of the descrip- 
tion specified therein. 

tXo | 

1 

| 

S.R.O. 1348, dated the 7 th 
June, 1956 

Election Commission 1 
India. 

Final list of candidates for elec- 
tion to the House of the 
People from the Shahdol-Sidhi 
con slituencv. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of Lhese 
Gazettes. 


PART H— Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1352. — It is hereby notified for general information that, the Commis- 
sion’s notification No. 406/AA-2/54, dated the 6th February, 1956, regarding the 
withdrawal of the recognition of the Praja Party, Andhra, as a State Party for 
the purpose of allotment of symbol, published at page 178 of the Gazette of 
India, Part II — Section 3, dated the 18th February, 1956, is hereby cancelled. 

I'No. 406/AA-2/54.] 
By Order. 

P. S. SUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 


Par* II— Sic, SI 'THE GAZETTE OP tNEUA, JUNE T0,' 1950 

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 6th June 1056 

S.R O. 1853.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 15 of the Notaries 
Act, 1952 (53 of 1952) the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
amendments shall be made in the Notaries Rules, 1956, namely. — 

In the said rules— 

(a) in rule 8, after sub-rule (2i the following sub-rule shall be inserted, 

namely: — 

"(3) The Register of Notaries shall be in Form IIA and the certificate 
of practice shall be in Form IIB.”; 

(b) after Form II, the following foims shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Form IIA 
Register of Notaries 
[See rule 8(3)] 


Full Residential Date oil Qualifications Area in which 

Name and and which the of ’Notarv Remarks 

SI. date of birth professional name of No- Notary may practise 

No. of Notary] addresses of tarv is entcr- 
Notaiv ed in the Re- 
gister 


Form HB 


Certificate of Practice 
[ See rule 8(3)] 

Pursuant to the provisions of the Notaries Act, 1952 (53 of 1952) and the 

Notaries Rules, 1956 made thereunder, the ~r ~~ ei nme nt hereby certifies 

State Government 

that Shri who has declared his ordinary 

professional address to be has been duly appointed 

by the -■? overni !!l? n ' t as a Notarv on the dav of 19 , 

State Government 

and is authorised to practise as such, subject to the provisions of the aforesaid 




loo8 


GA TE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1950 


[Fast II — Sec. 9 


Act and Rules for a period of three years from this the day 

of 19 In and throughout 

Given under my hand and 
the seal of the Government 
of India 


Government of (name of the State), this the day 

Of 19 


Government o f Indi a. 

Secretary to the Government of 

(name of the state).’' 

[No. F.3.(4)/J/II/56,]i 


New Delhi- 2, the 8th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1354. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Part C 
States (Laws) Act, 1950 (XXX of 1950), the Central Government hereby extends 
to the State of Delhi the enactments specified in the first column of the Schedule 
hereto annexed subject to the modifications, if any, specified in the corresponding 
entry in the second column thereof, and to the following provision, namely: — 

References in the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness (Amendment) Act, 1940 
(Punjab Act XII of 1940) to the State Government shall be construed as referen- 
ces to the Chief Commissioner of Delhi. 

The Schedule 


Name of Act 

i 


Modifications 

2 


The Punjab Relief of Indebtedness i. In section 2 for the words and figures “the Punjab 
(Amendment) Act, 1940 (Punjab Relief of Indebtendness Ac L ,i934”, the words and 
Act XII of 1940). figures “the Punjab Relief of Inbetedness Act, 193a, 

as extended to the State of Delhi” shall be substituted , 

2. In section 3 — 

(»') for the words “Imperial Bank”, the words 
"State Bank” shall be substituted ; and 
(ii) for the words and figures “the Co-operative 
Societies Act, 1512” the words and figures 
“the Bombay Co-operative Societies Act, 1925, 
as extended to the State of Delhi” shall bo 
substituted. 

3. I11 section 14, in clause ( 4 ) for the words, figures and 
brackets “commencement of tbe Punjab Relief of 
Indebtedness ("Amendment) Act, 1940”, the words, 
figures and brackets “date of the extension of the 
Punjab Relief of Indebtedness (Amendment) Act, 
1940, to the State of Delhi” shall be substituted. 

4. In section 16, in clause ( b ), the words and figures "aa 
defined in the Punjab Alienation of Land Act, 1900" 
and “every member of a tribe notified as agricultural 
under the Punjab Alienation of Land Act, 1900, and" 
shall be omitted. 

The Punjab Relief of Indebtedness ...... 

(Amendment) Act, 1942 (Punjab 
Act VI of 1942). 


The Punjab Relief of Indebtedness Act, 1934 (Punjab Act VIi of 1934), as 
extended to the State of Delhi by the notification of the Government of India 
In the late Home Department No. 189/38, dated the 30th May, 1939, and amended 
by the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness (Amendment) Act, 1940 (Punjab Act XII 
of 1940), and the Punjab Relief of indebtedness (Amendment) Act, 1942 (Punjab 
Act, VI of 1942), as hereby extended to the said State, is published as annexure 
to this notification. 





Part II— Sec 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 1009 


Annexure 

THE PUNJAB RELIEF OF INDEBTEDNESS ACT, 1934 
Punjab Act No. VII or 1934 

(Received the assent of His Excellency the Governor on the 4th February, 
1936, and that of His Excellency the Viceroy and Governor-General on the 5th 
April, 1935, and was first published in the Punjab Gazette, Extraordinary, of the 
«th April, 1935.) 


1 


I 

2 

3 

4 

Yeai 

No. 

Short Title 

Whether replaced or 




otherwise alfected 




by legislation. 


1934 


VII 


The Punjab Relief 
of Indebtedness Act, 
1934 


An Act to provide for tihe Relief of Indebtedness in the Punjab 

Whereas it is expedient to amend the law governing the relations between 
debtors and creditors; 

And whereas the previous sanction of the Governor-General required under 
Section 80-A(3) of the Government of India Act and the previous sanction of the 
Governor required under Section 80-C of the said Act have been obtained; 

It is hereby enacted as follows:— 


Part I— Preliminary 

1. Short title, extent and commencement. — (1) This Act may be called the 
Punjab Relief of indebtedness Act, 1934. 

(2) This Part and Parts IU, IV, V, VI, VIi and VIII shall extend to the whole 
■of the Punjab and Part II to such ureas as the State Government may from time to 
time, by notification, direct. 

(3) This Act shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, 
by notification, appoint in this behalf. 

2. Interpretation clause. (Definitions).— In this Act, unless there is anything 
repugnant m the subject or context, 

(1) '‘Court' 1 or "Civil Court” includes a Court of Insolvency a receiver unpoin- 
ted under the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, and an arbitrator appointed with 
the consent of the parties or by an order of a Court; 

(2) "Interest” means rate of interest and includes ihe return to be made over 
■and above what was actually lent whether the same as charged or sought to be 
recovered specifically by way of interest or otherwise; 

(3) “Loan” means a loan whether of money or in kind, and includes any 
transaction which is. in the opinion of Ihe court, in substance a loan 


1010 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1950 [Part II— Sec, 3 


Part II — Insolvency Procedure 

3. Amendment of Section 10 of the Provincial insolvency Act, 1920. — In seetion 
10(1) of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 (V of 1920), after the existing clause 
(a) the following clause shall be inserted — 

"(aa) his debts amount to two hundred and fifty-rupees, and he satisfies 
the court that he is entitled to summary administration of his estate 
under section 74 of this Act; or”. 

4. Amendment of Section 74 of the. Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920. — In section 
74 of the Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920, for the words “five hundred rupees” 
the words ‘‘two thousand rupees” shall be substituted. 

Part III —Usurious Loans 

5. Amendment of the Usurious Loans Art, U)l 8. — In section 3 of the Usurious 
Loans Act, 1918 (X of 1918)— 

(i) for the word "and” in clause <a) of sub-section (1) the word "or" shall 

be substituted. 

(ii) for the word ‘'may” where it appears for the first time in sub-section. 

(1) the word “shall” shall be substituted; 

(lii) for the word “may” after the word "namely” in sub-section (1) the 
word ‘‘shall" shall be substituted; 

Civ) to sub-section (2) the following clause shall be added nameily:— 

""(e) The Court shall deem interest to bei excessive if it exceeds seven and- 
a-half per centum per annum simple interest or is more than two per 
cc-ntum over the Bank rarf, whichever is higher at the time of taking, 
the loan, in the case of secured loans, or twelve and-a-half per cen- 
tum per annum simple interest in the case of unsecured, loans; Pro- 
vided that the court shall not deem- interest in excess of the above 
rates to be excessive if the loan has been advanced by thei State Bank 
of Indiu or any bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934, or any banking company registered under 
the Indian Companies Act, 1913 prior to the first day of April, 1937,, 
or any co-operative society registered under the Bombay Co-operative- 
Societies Act, 1925, as extended to thei State of Delhi.” 


6. Retrospective effect . — The provisions of this part of the Act shall apply to. 
all suits pending on or instituted after the commencement of this Act. 


Part IV— Debt Conciliation Boards 

7. (1) "Debt” includes all liabilities of a debtor in cash or in kind, secured or 
unsecured, payable under a decree or order of a civil court or other- 
wise, whether mature or not, but shall not include debts incurred for the purposes 
of trade, arrears of wages, land revenue or anything recoverable as an arrear 
of land revenue, or any debt, which is barred by the law of limitation, or debts 
due to co-operative banks or to co-operative societies or to the State Bank of 
India or to any banking company registered under the Indian Companies Act, 
1913, prior to the first day of April, 1937, or any bank included in the Second 
Schedule to the Reservei Bank or India Act, 1934 other than debts transferred to- 
such societies, banks or banking companies during the pendency of an application 
under section 9 in which such debts could be taken into consideration for 'the 
purposes of this Act, or debts transferred to such societies, banks or banking 
companies on or after the 2nd day of September, 1938, if in the opinion of the 
board such transfer was effected with a view to avoid the operation of this Act; 

(2) "Debtor” means a person who owes a debt and — 

(i) who both earns his livelihood mainly by agriculture, and is either a 

landowner, or tenant of agricultural land, or a servant of a land- 
owner, or of a tenant of agricultural land, or 

(ii) who earns his livelihood as a village menial paid in cash or kind for 

work connected with agriculture or, 



Part II-^Sec, 3J 


I Oil 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1056 


(iii) whose total assets do not exceed five thousand rupees: 

Provided thn.l a member of a tribe, notified as agricultural under the Punjab 
Alienation of Land Act, 1900 (XIII of 1900), shall be presumed to be a debtor aa 
defined in this section until, it is proved that his income from other sources is 
greater than his income from agriculture. 

Explanation (II of 1900), — (i) A debtor shall not lose his status as such 
through involuntary unemployment or an account of incapacity, temporary or 
permanent, by bodily infirmity, or if he is or has been in service of Military or 
Naval or Air Forces, of the Union only on account of his pay and allowances or 
pension exceeding his income from agricultural sources. 

(ii) A debtor shall not lose his status as such by reason of the fact that he 
makes income by using his plough cattle for purposes of transport. 

(iii) A debtor shall not lose his status as such only because he does not 
cultivate with his own hands. 

(3) “Agriculture” shall include horticulture and the use of land for any 
purpose of husbandry inclusive of the keeping or breeding of livestock, poultry, 
or bees, and the growth of fruit, vegetables and the like. 

(4) “Prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this part of the Act. 

8. Setting up of Debt Conciliation Boards. — ( 1) (a) The State Government may 
for the purpose of amicable settlement between debtors and their creditors estab- 
lish debt conciliation boards. 

(b) The State Government shall define the local limits of the area in which a 
board shall have jurisdiction. 

(c) The State Government shall determine the pecuniary limits of the juris- 
diction of the board, provided that no board shall have jurisdiction to make a 
settlement between a debtor and his creditors if the total debts ol the debtor 
exceed Rs. 10,000 or such larger amount as the State Government may prescribe 
for any area. 

(d) Such board shall consist of a chairman and two or more members to be 
appointed by the State Government: 

Provided that no act done or proceeding taken by a board under this Act shall 
be called into question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in 
any board. 

(e) The Chairman and every member of a board so established shall be appo- 
inted for a term not exceeding three years, but shall be eligible by for rc-appomt- 
ment on the expiry of his term. 

(f) The quorum of a board shall be presqribed by the State Government. 

(g) Where the chairman and members of a board are not unanimous, the 
opinion of the majority shall prevail, and if the board is equally divided, the 
chairman shall exercise a casting vote. 

(2) The State Government may cancel the appointment of any member of a 
board or dissolve any board. 

(3) The State Government shall notify in the Official Gazette- 

fa) the establishment of a board and the appointment of its members; and 
the board shall be deemed to have been established and its members 
appointed from the date specified in such notification or notifications; 

(b) the cancellation of the appointment of any member of a board; and from 

date specified in such notification the member shall cease to be a 
member of the board; 

(c) the dissolution of a board; and from the date specified in such notifica- 

tion the board shall cease to exist. 

(4) When a board is dissolved or ceases to exist otherwise, the State Govern- 
ment may at any time establish another board within the same local limits in 
which the former board had jurisdiction and may declare this board to be the 
successor in office of the first board and may confer on it power to dispose of 
such applications under section 13(2) and section 23 as the State Government 
may direct. 



1012 


THE GAZETTE OF -INDIA, JUNE 1C, I960 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


9. Application for settlement between a debtor and his creditors,— A debtor or 
any of his creditors may apply to the board appointed for the area in which a 
debtor resides or holds any land, to effect a settlement between the debtor and 
his creditors; 

Provided that no application shall be made if the debtor’s debts exceed ten 
thousand rupees or such larger sum as the State Government may preeribe for any 

particular area. 

10. Verification of application , — -Every application to a board shall be in writing 
and be signed by the applicant and verified in such manner as may be prescribed. 

11. Particulars to be stated in application. — (1) Every application presented by 
R debtor to a board shall contain the following particulars, namely; — 

(a) the place where he resides or holds land; 

(b) the particulars of all claims against him together with names and 

residences of his creditors; 

(c) the particulars of all his property, together with a specification of the 

value of such property and the place or places at which any such 
property is to be found; 

(d) a statement that he is unable to pay his debts, and that they do not 

exceed the prescribed amount. 

(e) a statement whether he has previously filed an application in respect 

of the same debt before the same or another board, and if so, with 
what result. 

(2) Every application presented by a creditor shall contain the following 
particulars, namely, — 

(a) the place where the debtor resides or holds land; 

(b) the amount and particulars of his claim against such debtor; 

(c) a statement that the debtor is unable to pay his debts. 

12. 'Procedure on receipt of application. — (1) On receipt of an application 
under section 9 the board shall pass an order fixing a date and place for hearing 
the application: 

Provided that the board may at any time dismiss the application if, for reasons 
to be stated in writing, it does not consider it desirable to attempt to effect a 
nettlement between the debtor and the creditors. 

(2) Notice of the order under sub-section (1) shall be sent to creditors bv 
registered post, acknowledgment due, and where the debtor is not the applicant, 
notice of the order under sub-section (1) shall be sent to him in a similar manner. 

13. Notice calling upon creditors to submit statements of debts. — Cl) On the 
date fixed the board shall publish, in such manner as may be prescribed, a notice 
calling upon every creditor of the debtor to submit a statement of debts owed to 
such creditor by the debtor. Such statement shall be submitted to the board in 
writing within two months from the date of publication of the notice: 

Provided that, if the board is satisfied that any creditor was, for good and 
sufficient cause, unable to comply with such direction or to produce the documents 
required under' sub-section (1) of section 14 within the time fixed, it may extend 
the period for the submission of his statement of the debts owed to him or for 
the production of such documents. 

(2) Every debt owed to a single creditor of which no such statement has 
been submitted to the board in compliance with the provisions of sub-section (1) 
shall be deemed to be duly discharged for all purposes and all occasions against 
such creditor; and every debt owed to two or more creditors jointly, of which 
such a statement or statements signed by all such creditors or their " recognised 
agents has or have not been so submitted, shall be deemed to be so discharged 
against such creditors as have failed to submit the said statement or statements 
but only to the extent of their respective shares in the said debt- 



Part II— Stec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


1013 


Provided that no such debts shall be deemed to be discharged against any 
creditors whose names have not been included in the application made under 
section 9, 

(3) If the creditor or any of the joint creditors fails without sufficient cause 
to be present in person or by his recognised agent or legal practitioner in accor- 
dance with the provisions of Section 24 at any of the hearings fixed by the board, 
or fails to produce full particulars and documents as required under sub-section 

(1) of section 14, the debt due to him or the joint creditors, as the case may be, 
shall be deemed for all purposes and all occasions to have been fully discharged. 

(4) If any creditor proves to the satisfaction of the board, or, if no board is 
vested with ‘jurisdiction by the State Government to the satisfaction of a civil 
court, that the notice was not served on him and that he had no knowledge of its 
publication or that he was unavoidably absent at any of the hearings fixed by 
the board, the board or the court, as tho case may be, may revive that debt. 

14, Procedure on submission of statements of debts , — (1) Every creditor sub- 
mitting in compliance with a notice issued under sub-section (1) of section 13 a 
statement of the debts owed to him shall furnish, along with such -statement, 
full particulars of all such debts, and shall at the same time produce all docu- 
ments (including entries in books of account) on which he relies to support his 
claims, together with a true copy of every such document: 

Provided that a decree or order of a civil court shall be conclusive evidence 
as to the amount of the debt to which thei decree relates, but the amount may 
be reduced as the result of an agreement arrived at in accordance with section 
17, 


(2) The board shall, after marking for the purpose of identification every 
original document so produced and verifying the correctness of the copy, retain 
the copy and return the original to the creditor. 

15. Board to attempt amicable settlement,— The board shall call upon the 
debtor and each creditor to explain his case regarding each debt, and shall use 
its best endeavours to induce tnem to arrive at an amicable settlement. 

15-A. Powers of board to adjudicate on genuineness or enforceability of 
debts. — (1) If a creditor or debtor, a the case may be, challenges the genuine- 
ness or enforceability of any debt included in an application, the board shall 
adjudicate upon the issue. 

(2) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the board under sub-section (1) 
may appeal therefrom to the Collector or such other officer, not below the rank 
of an Assistant Collector of the first grade, as the State Government may appoint 
in this behalf; 

(3) The period of limitation for an appeal under this section shall run from 
the date of the order appealed against and shall be thirty days. 

(4) An appeal shall not lie from an order refusing to review or confirming 
on review a previous order. 

(5) Notwithstanding anything herein before contained, no appeal or applica- 
tion for revision shall lie against a decision of the board under sub-section ( 1 ) 
unless the aggregate value of the items in regard to which the appeal is pre- 
ferred exceeds two thousand rupees, 

(6) No order passed under this Section shall be open to question in a civil 
court. 

16. Power of Board to require attendance of persons and production of docu- 
ments_ and to receive evidence. — Any board empowered under this Act may 
exercise all such powers connected with the summoning and examining of 
parties and witnesses and with the production of documents as are conferred on 
civil courts by the Code of Civil Procedure, and every proceeding before the 
board shall bet deemed a judicial proceeding. 

17. Registration and effect of agreement.— (1) If the debtor and all or any of 
the creditors come to an amicable settlement, the board shall forthwith reduce 
such settlement to writing in the form of an agreement setting forth the amounts 



ioi4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 


payable! to each creditor and the manner in which and the times at which they 
are to be paid, Such agreement shall be read out and explained to the parties 
concerned and shall be signed or otherwise authenticated by the board and the 
parties: provided that if the board is of the opinion that the period fixed for 

E ayment is excessive, the board may refuse to authenticate' the agreement. The 
oard shall also pass an order dismissing the application so far as it relates to- 
the creditors who have not come to an amicable settlement. 

(2) An agreement thus made shall take erfl'cct as if it were a decree of a 
civil court having jurisdiction in the area of the jurisdiction of the board. 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Registration Act, 1908, 
or in the rules made thereunder agreement made under sub-section (1 ) shall not 
be liable to registration. 

19. Bar to successive applications. — If once an application has been made by a 
debtor and disposed of, no board shall entertain a second application within two 
years of the datei of disposal of the first application. 

20. Grant of certificate by board in respect of debts. — (1) Where, during the- 
hearing of any application made under section 9, any creditor refuses to agree 
to an amicable settlement, the board may, if it is of opinion that the debtor has 
made such creditor a fair offer which the creditor ought reasonably to accept,, 
grant the debtor a certificate, in such form as may be prescribed, in respect of 
the debts owed by him to such creditor: 

(2) Power of court to disallow costs or interest. — Where any creditor sues or 
takes out execution proceedings in a civil court for the recovery of a debt in 
respect of which a certificate nas been granted under sub-section (1), the court 
notwithstanding the! provisions of any law for the time being in force, shall not 
allow the plaintiff any costs in such suit or proceedings, or any interest on the 
debt after the date of certification, under sub-section (1). 

(3) Where after the date of an agreement made in accordance with section 
17 or of certification any unsecured creditor sues for the recovery of a debt in 
respect of which a certificate has been granted under sub-section (1) or any 
creditor sues for the recovery of a debt incurred after the date of such agree- 
ment, any decree passed in such suit notwithstanding anything contained in the 
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908) shall not be executed until six months 
after the expiry of the period fixed in the agreement authenticated under sub- 
section (1) of section 17. 

(4) Where after the date of an agreement made jn accordance with section 17 
or of certification any unsecured creditor applies for the execution of a decree 
in respect of which a certificate has been granted under sub-section (1) the said 
decree! nothwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 
1908. shall not be executed until six months after the expiry of the period fixed 
in tne agreement authenticated under sub-saction (1) of section 17. 

20. -A. Decision of Board to be final. — If any Question arises in any proceedings 
under this part of the Act whether a loan or liability is a debt or not or whethelr 
a person is a debtor or not, the decision of the Debt Conciliation Board shall be 
final, and shall not be called into question in any court. 

21. Bar of civil suits. — Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no civil court 
shall entertain — 

(a) any suit appeal or application for revision — 

(i) to question the validity of any procedure or the legality of any order 
or agreement made of certificate issued under this Act or 

(ii) to recover any debt recorded as wholly or partly payable under an 
agreement made in accordance with section 17 from any person 
who, as a debtor, was party to such agreement, or 

(iii) to recover any debt which has been deemed to have been duly dis- 
charged under the, provisions of this Act; 

(b) any application to execute a decree, the execution of which is suspended 
under sub-section (3) or (4) of section 20. 



Part II--SEC. 81 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1950 


IOI5 


(c) any suit for a declaration, or any suit or application for injunction 
affecting any proceedings under this Act before a board. 

22. Bar of appeal or revision . — -Save as otherwise expressly provided in this 
Act no appeal or application for revision shall lie against any order passed by a 
boardL 

23. Power of board to review its order.— A board may, on the application 
from any person inteirested, review any order passed by it and pass such order 
as it thinks fit: 

Provided that it shall not under this section pass an order reversing or 
modifying any order affecting any person interested without giving such person 
an opportunity of being heard; 

Provided, further, that no application for review shall be entertained if 
presented more than twelve months after the date of the order which the person 
interested seeks to have reviewed. 

24. Appearance of party before board by agent or by legal practitioner , — In 
any proceedings under this part of the Act, any party may be represented by an 
agent authorised in writing or with the permission of the board by a legal 
practitioner. 

25. Bar to new suits and applications and suspension of pending suits and 
applications . — (1) When an application has been made to a board under section 
9 or section 23, no civil court shall entertain any new suit or other proceeding 
brought for the recovery of any debt covered by such application, and any suit 
or other proceeding pending before u civil court in respect of any such debt shall 
be suspended until the board has dismissed the application or an agreement has 
been made under section 17. 


(2) When any execution proceeding pending before a civil court is suspend- 
ed under subsection (1) and any animal has been attached and made over to 
suparddar in connection with such proceeding the judgment debtors shall be 
entitled to the return of such animal but shall not be competent to sell or in 
any way part with the ownership of any animal so attached during the suspen- 
sion of such proceeding; and if the judgment debtor has been committed to a 
civil prison in connection with such proceedings he shall be released forthwith. 

26. Extension of limitation . — The time spent in proceedings before a concilia- 
tion board and time during which a person is debarred from suing or executing, 
his decree under the provisions of this Part of this Act shall be excluded when 
counting the period of limitation for any application, suit or appeal. 


27. Members of board deemed to be public servants . — The members of a 
board shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Indian 
Penal Code, (XLV of 1860). 

28. Power to make rules . — (1) The Chief Government may make any rules 
consistent with this Part of this Act to carry out the purposes thereof, and in 
particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power may 
make rules. 


(a) prescribing the amount of debt for the purposes of section 8(1) (c); 

(b) prescribing the quorum for and regulating the procedure before a 

board; 

(c) prescribing the charges to be made by a board for anything done under 

this Act and the persons by whom and the manner in which such 
charges shall be paid; 

(d) prescribing the records to be kept and the returns to be made by a 

board; 


(c) prescribing the allowances to be paid to members of a board; 

(ee) prescribing the particulars of debts under subsection (1) of section 
14; 



ioi6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, J956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


(f) prescribing the place at which and the manner in which an agree- 

ment shall be registered; 

(g) prescribing the form of certificate to be granted under eub-sectioti 

(1) of section 20; and 

(h) generally, for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of 

this Part of this Act. 

(2) The power conferred by this section of making rules is subject to the 
condition that the rules be made after previous publication. 

29. Penalty for breach of the rales, — In making any rule the State Govern- 
ment may direct that a breach thereof shall be punishable with fine which may 
extend to fifty rupees, and, where the breach ig a continuing one, with further 
fine which may extend to ten rupees for every day after the first during which 
the breach continues. 


Part V — Damduput 

30. (1) In any suit brought after the commencement of this Act in respect 
of a debt as defined in section 7, advanced before the commencement of this 
Act no court shall pass or execute a decree or give effect to an award in 
respect of such debt for a larger sum than twice the amount of the sum 
found by the Court to have been actually advanced, less any amount already 
received' by creditor in excess of the amount due to him under clause (c) of 
subsection (2) of section 3 of the Usurious Loans Act, 1913. 

(2) In any suit in respect of a debt as defined in section 7, advanced after 
the commencement of this Act, no Court shall pass or execute a decree or 
(five effect to an award in respect of such debt for a larger sum than twice 
the amount of the sum found by the Court to have been actually advanced 
less any amount already received by a creditor. 

(3) Where in any proceeding concluded on or after the 15th day of October, 
1939, any decree has been passed or an award has been given by an arbitrator 
against a debtor in respect of a debt as defined in section 7, which is not in 
conformity with sub-section (1) and (2), such decree or award shall be void- 
able at the opt ip n of the debtor on whose application, made within six months 
from the date ol the extension of the Punjab Relief of Indebtedness (Amend- 
ment) Act, 1940 to the State of Delhi, the Court shall set aside the decree or 
award, reopen $he transaction and pass such order as may be in conformity 
with the provisions of this section. 

(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to entitle any person to claim 
a refund of any sum already paid except by adjustment under subsection (1). 


Part VI — Deposit in Court 


31. Deposit in Court. — (1) Any person who owes money may at any time 
deposit in court a sum of money in full or part payment to his creditor. 

(2) The court on receipt of such deposit shall give notice thereof to the 
creditor and shall, on his application, pay the sum to him. 

(3) From the date of such deposit interest shall cease to run on the sum 

so deposited. 

32. Power of State Government to make rules. — (1) the State Government 
may make rules for carrying into effect the provisions of this Part of this Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing 
powers suen rules may provide — - 

(a) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the fore- 

going powers such rules may provide; 

(b) vfor determining the court into which the sum shall be deposited; 

(c) the procedure for keeping accounts of such deposits and the manner 

in which notices are to be served on creditors and payments made 
to them, 

(3) The power conferred by this section of making rules is subject to the 
condition that the rules be made after previous publication. 



Part IB — Sec, 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 18, 1058 


1017 


Part VII — Redemption op Mortgages 

33. Amendment of Section 1(3) (a) of the Redemption of Mortgages 
( Punjab ) Act, 1913. — In section 1, sub-section (3) (a) of the Redemption of 
Mortgages (Punjab) Act, 1913 (II of 1913) for the figures and word “30 acres”' 
ihe figures and word ”50 acres” shall be substituted, and in sub-section (3) (b) 
of the same section for the figures “1,000” the figures “5,000” shall be substitut- 
ed. 


Part VIII — Miscellaneous Amendments of the Civil Law 

34. Immunity from arrest. — No debtor as defined in section 7 of this Act shall 
be arrested or imprisoned in execution of a decree for money, whether passed 
before or after the commencement of this Act. 

35. Amendment of section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure.~~In section 60 
of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 — 

(a) in sub-section (1) in the proviso, (i) in clause (c) , for thei words 
"occupied by him” the following words shall be deemed to be substituted, 
namely: — 

“not proved by the decree-holder to have been let out on rent or lent 
to persons other than his father, mother, wife, son, daughter, 
daughter-in-law, brother, sister or other dependants or left vacant 
for a period of a year or more;” 

(ii) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be deemed to be inserted, 
namely: — 

“(ce) Milch animals, wheither in milk or in calf, kids, animals used for the 
purposes of transport or draught cart and open spaces or enclosures belonging 
to an agriculturist and required for use in case of need for tying cattle, park- 
ing carts, or stacking fodder or manure; 

(ccc) one main residential house and other buildings attached to it (with 
the material and the sites thereof and the land immediately appurtenant there- 
to and necessary for their enjoyment) belonging to a judgement- debtor other 
than an agriculturist and occupied by him: 

Provided that the protection afforded by this clause shall not extend to any 
property specifically charged with the debt sought to be recoverd.” 

(b) after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be deemed to be 
inserted, namely: — 

“(3) Notwithstanding any other law for the time being in force an agree- 
ment by which a debtor agree to waive any benefit of any exemption under 
this section shall be void. 

(4) For the purposes of this section the word “agriculturist” shall include 
every person whether as owner, tenant, partner or agricultural labourer who 
depends for his. livelihood mainly on income . from agricultural land. 

(5) Every member of a scheduled caste shall be presumed to be an agri- 
culturist until the contrary is proved. 

(6) No order for attachment shall be made unless the court is satisfied that 
the property sought to be attached is not exempt from attachment or sale.” 

36. Amendment of Order XXI, rule 2, of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.— 
In Order XXI, Rule 2, of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, sub-rule (3) shall 
he omitted. 

37. Penalty for false claim of a principal sum. — Where, in a suit for the 
recovery of a loan, the court is satisfied that an entry relating to the loan has 
been made by the creditor or at his instance in any document showing the 
amount of the sum advanced to be in excess of that actually advanced plus legi- 
timate expenses incurred, the court shall disallow the whole claim with costs, 
unless the creditor satisfies the court that the wrong entry was accidental or was 
the result of a bona fide mistake. 

38. Penalty for use of documents containing false entries. — (1) If any party 
to a suit for the recovery of a loan dishonestly uses in such suit any document 
in which hei is aware that there is any statement or entry relating to such loan 



«0J8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 1ft, 1056 { ’aAt Il-flap., 3 


-which is false in any material particulars he shall on conviction be punished 
with imprisonment of either description which may extend to three months 
or with a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or with both. 

(2) If the epurt is satisfied, after such preliminary enquiry, if any, as it 
thinks necessary that there is ground for enquiring into an offence under sub- 
section (1) the court may record a finding to that effect and prefer a complaint 
of the offence in writing to a magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction, 
and such magistrate shall deal with such complaint in the manner laid down 
in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898. 

[No. F.7 (11) -J/II/56.] 
S. NAUAYANSWAMY, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 12th June 195ii 

S.R.O. 1355.— In pursuance of the Explanation of Section 25 of the Negotiable 
Instruments Act, 1881 (XXVI of 1881), the Central Government hereby declares 
that Monday, the 23rd day of July, 1956, shall be a public holiday throughout 
India in commemoration of the centennial anniversary of the birthday of Shri Bal 
Gangadhar Tilak. 

[No. 20/8/56-Pub, I.] 
FATEH SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2, the 1st June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1356. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 of the Salaries 
and Allowances of Officers of Parliament Act, 1953 (20 of 1953). the Central 
■Government, in consultation with the Chairman of the Council of States and the 
Speaker of the House of the People, hereby makes the following rules: — 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Officers of Parliament (Travelling 
and Daily Allowances) Rules, 1956. 

2. Allowances admissible to Chairman of the Council of States and the Speaker 
of the House of the People. — The Chairman of the Council of States and the 
Speaker of the House of the People shall each be entitled — 

(a) on assumption and relinquishment of his office, to such travelling 

allowances for himself and the members of his family and for the 
transport of his and his family's effects as are admissible to a 
Cabinet Minister on the assumption and relinquishment of his office 
under the rules made under section 11 of the Salaries and Allowances 
of Ministers Act, 1952 (LVIII of 1952), as for the time being in force; 

(b) in respect of tours undertaken by him in India in the discharge of his 

official duties, to such travelling and daily allowances as are 
admissible to a Cabinet Minister under the said rules; 

(c) in respect of tours undertaken by him outside India in the discharge 

of his official duties, to such travelling and daily allowances as the 
Central Government may, in each case, determine, 

3. Certain additional allowances admissible to the Speaker of the House of the 

People. — The Speaker of the House of the People shall, in respect of the journey 
undertaken by him from Delhi to his constituency (Headquarters) at the end of 
each session of the House of the People and for the return journey to Delhi at 
the beginning of the next session he entitled to — 

(a) travelling allowances (without daily allowances) at the rates admissible 

under clause (b) of rule 2; 

(b) actual charges for the haulage of his motor car at his own risk; and 

(c) ' actual railway fare by the lowest class for his chauffeur. 



"Part II — 6ec. 3] 


0*9 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, JtlNU 16, l»8ff 


/ 

4. Allowances admissible to Deputy Chairman and Deputy Speaker.— -The 

Deputy Chairman of the CuupciI of States and. the Deputy Speaker of the House 
of the People shall each be entitled — 

(a, on the assumption and relinquishment of his officei, to such travelling 
allowances for himself and the members of his family and for the 
transport of his and his family’s effects as are admissible to a Deputy 
Minister on the assumption and relinquishment of his office undeir the 
rules made under section 11 of the Salaries and Allowances of 
Ministers Act, 1952 (LVIII of 1952), as lor the time being in force; 

(b) in respect of tours undertaken by him in India in the discharge of his 

official duties to such travelling and daily allowances as are admissi- 
ble to a Deputy Minister under the said rules; 

(c) in respect of the journey undertaken by him from Delhi to his consti- 

tuency (headquarters) at the end of each session of the Council of 
States or the House of the People, as the case may be, and for the 
return journey to Delhi at the beginning of the next session, to 
travelling allowances (without daily allowances at the rates 
admissible under clause (b); 

(d) in respect of tours undertaken by him outside India in the discharge 

of his official duties, to such travelling and daily allowances as the 
Central Government may, in each cast,, determine. 

5. Special provision regarding allowances paid before the commencement of 
these rules. — All payments made before, the commencement of these rules to any 
officer of Parliament by way of travelling and daily allowances shall be deemed 
to have been properly made, as if the, rates at which such allowances were paid 
had been fixed under these rules. 


[No. Admn. 3(203)/55.] 
N. K. BHOJWANI, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 4th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1357. — In exorcise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
309, and clause (5) of article 148, of the Constitution, the President, after 
consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General in relation to persons 
serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the follow- 
ing amendment in the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India), namely: — 

Alter sub-rule (2) of rule 10 of the said Rules, the following proviso shall 
be inserted, namely: — 

"Provided that if, through oversight or otherwise the amount subscribed is 
less than the minimum subscription payable by the subscriber under sub-rules 
(1) and (2) of rule 8 and if the short subscription together with the interest 
accrued thereon is not paid by the subscriber within such time as may be 
specified by the authority competent to sanction an advance for the grant of 
which, special reasons are required under clause (b) or clause (c) of rule 12, 
the contribution payable by the Government shall be equal to the amount 
actually paid by the subscriber or the amount normally payable by Government, 
whichever, is lass, unless (he Government, in any particular case, otherwise 
directs . 

[No. F.28 (9) -EV/56.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5 th .Time 1956 

„ 3J 1 - 0 ’ 1358.— The President is pleased to direct that the following amend- 

b ti mad f ln Set ' il0n H .(b)— Leaving J urisdiction— - of the Adminis- 
trate e Instructions in connection with the Fundamental Rules, as incorporated 



1020 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNfe 10, 1038 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


In Appendix No, 3 to Posts and Telegraphs Compilation of Fundamental and 
Supplementary Rules Volume II: — 

(i) Delete the words “British” and "or to any Indian State or Foreign 

Settlement in India” occurring in lines 2 and 3 respectively of 

rule 2. 

(ii) Delete the words “or Foreign State or Settlement” occurring in rule 3. 

[NO. F.5(30)E.IV/56.1 
J. C. SEN, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 5th Jane 1956 

S.R.O. 1359, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of thei Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (X of 1949) and Rule 16 of the Banking Companies Rules, 
1949, the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 31 of the said Act and Rule 
15 of the said Rules shall not apply to the undernoted banking companies in 
so far as they relate to the publication of their balance sheets and profit and 
loss accounts for the year ended the 31st December 1955, together with the 
auditors’ reports in a newspaper: — 

1. Madras City Bank Ltd., Coimbatore. 

2. Lakshmi Banking Cohporation Ltd., Pudukkottai. 

3. Vasudeva Vilasam Bank Ltd., Perintalmanna. 

4. Kannivadi Bank Private Ltd., Dindigul. 

5. Koppa Bank Ltd., Koppa. 

6. National Banking Corporation Ltd., Kachhwa. 

7. Ajodhia Bank Ltd., Faizabad. 

8. Oudh Commercial Bank Ltd., Faizabad. 

9. Bank of Travancore Ltd., Trivandrum. 

10. Kamalodayam Bank Ltd., Ponkunnam. 

11- Madappally Sri Vilason Bank Ltd., Mundakayam. 

12. Malankara Bank Ltd., Tiruvalla. 

13. Oriental Bankers Ltd., Munnar, 

14. Pioneer National Bank Ltd., Kidangoor. 

15. Prabhatha Tharako Band Ltd., Kuravilangad. 

16. Sree Vgrdhana Bank Ltd., Kottayam. 

17. Union Bank Ltd., Alleppey. 

[No. F,4(6O)-FI/50.J 
PREM NARAIN, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Company Law Administration) 

New Delhi, the 9th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1360,— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(1) of section 448 of the Companies Act, 1956 (I of 1956), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri H. L. Soni, Registrar of the Judicial Commissioner's 
Court, Himachal Pradesh Simla, ex-officio, to be the Official Liquidator attached 
to that court, as a part time officer. 


[No. 2(27 ) -CL-III/56.] 
SHIV CHARAN SINGH, Dy. Secy. 



1021 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 10, 1956 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

Centhal Excises 
New Delhi the 9 tli June 1956 

S.R.O. 1361. — In exercise* of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (I of 1944). as in force in India and as applied to 
the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendments m the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely: — 

In the said rules — 

I. In sub-rule (2) nl rule 137 for the words and brackets "Secretary, 
British Legation, Kabul ( or other person appointed by the British Minister at 
Kabul in this behalf)” the words and brackets “Indian Embassy at Kabul (or 
other person appointed, by the Indian Ambassador/Charge d’Affaires at Kabul 
in this behalf) ” shall be substituted; 

II. In rule 138 — 

<1) I In sub-rule il), the brackets and tigure “(1) shall be omitted and 
for the words “His Britannic Majesty's Vice Consul", the words 
“Indian Vico Consul" shall be substituted; 

(2) sub-rule (2) shall be omitted; 

III. rule 190 shall be omitted; 

IV. in Appendix I— in Form B.-5(Sec.) (Central Excise Series No. 27), for 
the words “depositing with the Collector”, the words “to deposit with the Collec- 
tor” shall be substituted. 

[F.N0.41/8/55-CXJ 
[No. 6-CER/56.1 
W. SALDANIIA, Dy. Secy. 

CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 
Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 7l h June J956 

Rules of procedure in respect of references to the Board of Referees under sub- 
section (4) of section 23A of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922. 

S.R.O. 1362. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
59 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), the Central Board of Revenue 
is pleased to make the following rules concerning applications for reference: to 
the Board of Referees under sub-section (4) of section 23A of the said Act and 
the procedure to be followed by such Board in disposing of the applications, 
the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (4) or 
section 59 of the said Act: — 

1. These Rules may be .’ailed the “Indian income-tax (Board of Referees) 
Rules, 1950". 

2. Definitions. — In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires, — 

(a) “Act” means the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922); 

lb) 'applicant’ means the company which applies to the Commissioner of 
Income-tax under sub-section (4) of section 23A of the Act requir- 
ing him to refer its case to the Board of Referees; 

(c) ‘application’ means the application made by the company to the 

Commissioner of Income-tax under sub-section (4) of section 23A 
of the Act requiring him to refer its ease to the Board of Refereqs; 

(d) ‘Board of Referees’ means the Board of Referees appointed by the 

Central Government in pursuance of sub-section (4) of section 23A 
of the Act; 

(c) 'Chairman of the Board’ means that member of the Board of 
Referees who is designated by the Central Government as the 
Chairman of the Board. 

3. The application shall be made in Form ‘A’ annexed to these Rules and 
shall he sqpt (together with 3 extra copies thereof and of all enclosures thereto) 
to the Commissioner. 



1022 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1956 


[.Part II — Sec. 3 


4. If the application is not made within the time specified in sub-section (4) 
of section 23A of the Act, thei Commissioner of Income-tax (hereafter in these 
Rule referred to as the Commissioner) shall not refer the matter to which the 
application relates to the Board of Referees. 

5. If the application is made within the aforesaid time, the Commissioner 
shall — 

(i) within thirty days of the receipt of the application by him, report to 

the Central Government the fact of such application having been 
made, and 

(ii) within sixty days of the receipt of the application by him, draw up a 

statement of the case in respect of the matter to which the 
application relates and send it (together with two extra copies 
thereof) to the Board of Referees for decision. 

6. (1) The statement of the case drawn up by the Commissioner shall set out 
thei relevant facts, his decision under sub-section (3) of section 23 A of the Act, 
and his own opinion on any point or points urged by the applicant in the appli- 
cation including his opinion on the point whether the applicant is a company 
engaged in activities of the type or tvpes specified in sub-section ( 4 ) of section 
23A. 

(2) A copy of his decision under sub-section (3) of section 23A and any other 
document or documents which the Commissioner considers relevant shall be 
appended to the Statement of the Case. 

(3) One copy of the Statement of the Case shall be sent by the Commissioner 
to the applicant as soon as practicable. 

7. The Board of Referees shall notify to the applicant and the Commissioner 
at least thirty days before the date of hearing — the data, time and place fixed 
for the hearing of the application. 

8. Any application to the Board of Referees for adjournment of the hearing 
shall be made so as to reach the Board at least fifteen days before thei date of 
hearing, but the Board of Referees may refuse to grant such an adjournment if 
they are satisfied that there are no sufficient grounds for adjournment and in 
such a case after communicating such refusal to the applicant, the Board may 
decide the reference ex -parte on its merits. 

9. (1) Any person or persons who are eligible to represent thei applicant in 
any income-tax proceedings by virtue of section 61 of the Act may, if specifically 
authorised for the purpose by the applicant, represent the applicant before the 
Board of Referees. 

(2) Any officer of the Centra] Government or any lawyer may, if specifically 
authorised for the purpose by thei Commissioner, represent the Commissioner 
before the Board of Referees. 

10. If thei Board of Referees requires any information or documents which 
are not contained in the statement of the case for deciding a reference, it may 
obtain such information or documents from the applicant or from the Com- 
missioner as the case may be. 

11. The Board of Referees shall communicate its decision to the applicant 
and the Commissioner as soon as it is ready. 

12. If thei members of the Board of Referees disagree in their decision, the 
decision of the Chairman of the Board shall prevail and be deemed to be the 
decision of the Board of Referees. 

13. If by reason of any vacancy occurring in the Board of Referees on account 
of transfer, leave, or otherwise, the Central Government appoints any other 
person to fill up the vacancy, the proceedings of the Board of Referees as pre- 
viously constituted shall not be invalid but the applicant shall be entitled to a 
re-hoaring of his case by the Board of Referees as reconstituted, if it so demands. 

14. All communications intended for the Central Government or the Board of 
Referees shall be addressed to the Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division), North Block, Now Delhi-2 



Part.II^Sec, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


102 3 


Annexure 
FORM ‘A’ 

Form of Application to the Board of Referees under Section 23A(4) — 

This day of 19 . In the matter of the application 

■of section 23A to 


(Name of the applicant compam ). 


The applicant states as follows: — 


(1) that the address to which notices or any other communication may be 

sent to the applicant is 

(2) that under sub-section (3) of section 23A of the Indian Income-tax Act. 
1922, the applicant has been required by the Commissioner of Income-tax to 

distribute before (date) an amount of Rs aa 

dividends to its shareholders in respect of the previous year ended 

(3) that notice of the order of the Commissioner under sub-section (3) of 

section 23A was served on the applicant on ■ (date). 

(4) that the applicant is an Indian company engaged in the manufacture 

of in the processing of in thei mining of 

in the generation or distribution of electricity/other than electricity (any other 
form of power should be specified here). 

(5) that the facts which are admitted and/or found by the Commissioner and 
which are necessary for drawing up the reference are stated in the enclosure to 
this application. 

(6) that in arriving at his decision under sub-section (3) of section 23A the 
•Commissioner has erred in ignoring or failing to give adequate consideration to 
rthe following relevant points: — 

1 

2 

3 

(7) that having regard to the current requirements of the applicant’s business 
‘fully described in the enclosure to the application), or/and other requirement® 
necessary or advisable for the maintenance and development of the applicant's 
business, 

(i) the distribution to the shareholders in respect of the previous year of 

any dividend/any dividend exceeding would be 

unreasonable. 


(ii) the time allowed by the Commissioner for distribution under sub- 
section (3) of section 23A is unreasonably short and should be 
extended till 

, \8) the applicant, therefore, requires under sub-section (4) of section 23A 
of the aforesaid Act that a statement of the case be drawn up and refetrred to the 
Board oi Referees, 


that the documents or copies thereof as specified below on which the 
r j lles , ln su PP 01 't of his case be forwarded to the Board of Referees for 
, con srt ora t ion . ^ Ono set of the said documents is enclosed for the purpose 
■ 1 translation in English of the documents, where necessary 

(i) 


(ii) 

(iii) 


Signed 


Place 


(Designation) 

(Name of the applicant company) 


I, the (designation) do declare that what Is 

stated in the above application is true to the best of my information and belief. 


Signed 


Note. — (1) The application shall be deemed to be accompanied by a fee of 
Rs. 100 if the said sum is paid to the Commissioner at the time of presenting the 
application either in cash or by a crossed cheque or crossed draft payable to the 



1024 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1936 [Part II- -Sec. 3 


Commissioner (by designation) or if the application is accompanied by a receipt 
showing that the) said sum has been remitted by money order or paid into the- 
Treasury or a branch of the State Bank of India or a branch of the Reserve Bank 
of India. The amount paid in tills respect shall be credited to the account of the 
Central Government under thei head 'TV — Taxes on income other than corpora- 
tion tax-Miscellaneous— Fee for reference to Board of Referees". 

(2) The application shall be signed by thei principal officer of the company for 
the time being. 


[No. 41,] 
N. H. NAQVI, Secy. 


Land Customs 

New Delhi, the flth June 1956 

S.R.O, 1663. — Tn exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land' 
Customs Act, 1924 (XIX of 1924), the Central Board of Revenue makes the 
following further amendment in its notification No. 22-Customs, dated the 2nd 
February, 1952, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, under the heading “C-Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of land Customs. Calcutta”, 
under the sub-heading “24 Parganas District”, after the entry Ttinda’ the 
following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 

1 2 

Jalalpur Across the portion of the river Iehamati lying between village 
Jalalpur Indian Union, and Sankra [East Pakistan). 

[No. 37.]i 


Customs 

Neiu Delhi, the 9hh June 1956 

S.R.O. 1364. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b) and (c) of 
section 11 and section 53 of the Sea Customs Act, i878 (VIII of 1876), the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the following further amendment in 
the notification No. 119-Customs, dated the 9th September 1950, namely; — • 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, in column 3 against 
S. No. 10-Matwad, the following entry shall be omitted, namely: — 

“3. the landing place known ns the Jalalpur-Butider”. 


[No. 39,[ 
W. SALDANHA, Secy. 


Estate Duty 

New Delhi, the 12th June, 1956 

S.R.O, 1365.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 85 of thei Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central Board of Revenue 
hereby directs that the following amendmenf shall bo made in the Estate Duty 
Rules, 1953, the same having been previously published as required by sub-section 
(1) of section 85 of the said Act, namely: — 

In the said Rules, — 

For the existing rule 13, the following shall ho substituted, namely: — 

13. Effect of default In complying with the undertaking. — (l) Where any 
objects are exempted from duty in pursuance of an undertaking under suh-rule 
(1) of Rule 11 and the Board is satisfied that at any time during the period 
for which the undertaking was given, it has not been observed in any material 
respect, then duty shall become payable on the value at, that, time of those 
objects in respect of the death on which the exemption was given. 



Fart II->— Sec, 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1066 


10 25 


(2) Where liability to duty arises under sub-rule (1)— - 

(a) duty shall be payable at the rate appropriate to the principal value 

Of the estate passing on that death as if clauses (1) and (j) of sub- 
section (1) of section 33 never applied to those objects. 

(b) any person who, if the objects were sole! when the duty becomes 

payable, would be entitled to receive (whether for his own benefit 
or not) the proceeds of sale or any income arising therefrom shall 
be accountable for the duty. 

(3) Where any objects are sold after they become liable to duty under sub- 
rule (1) in respect ot any death, the proceeds of the sale shall not be liable to 
duty in respect of the same death under sub-rule (2) of Buie 11. 


Explanatory Note 

(This note Is not part of the amendment but is intended to be merely clarift- 
■ calory). 

Rule 13 of the Estate Duty Rules, 1053 as it stands is considered to be lengthy 
as it is expressed In one sentence running into 164 words. In order to simplify 
it, the said rule has been split up into separate sentences without making any 
•change In the substance. 


[No. 32/12/9/55-E.D.] 
P. K. GHOSH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 12th May 1956 

S.R.O. 1366.— The following By-laws made by the Coir Board, in exercise of 
The powers conferred by Section 27 of the Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 Of 1953), 
and confirmed by the Central Government, are hereby published, as required by 
■sub-section (2) of the said Section, namely: — 


BY-LAWS 

Preliminary 


1, These by-laws may be called the Coir Board (Contributory Provident Fund) 
By-Laws, 1955. 


2, In these By-Laws, unless the context otherwise requires: — 

(a) ‘'The Act” means the Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1933); 

(b) ‘‘Board" means the Coir Board constituted under section 4; 
lc) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board; 

(d) “Emoluments” means pay or leave salary, which includes dearness pav 
reckoned as such by the Central Government; 

(c) “Employee” means officer, office staff, technical staff and menial staff 

of the Board other than those whose services are paid from 
contingencies; v 


■(f) “Family” means — 

(i) in the case of a male subscriber, the wife or wives and children of 
the subscriber; and the widow or widows and children of a deceased 
son of subscriber; 


Provided that if a Subscriber proves that his wife has been -judicially 
separated from him or has ceased under the customary laws of the 
community to which she belongs, to be entitled to 'maintenance, 
she shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member of the 
snbscnbers family in matters to which these by-laws relate unless 
the subsCnbc-r subsequently indicates by express notice in writing 
to the Secretary that she shall continue to be so regarded; 8 

•( 11 ) m the case of a female subscriber, the husband and children of the 

sS'Sfic a&r** - **■«* •»*«> * * s£Ss 



1026 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Provided that if a subscriber by notice in writing to the Secretary 
expresses her desire to exclude her husband from her family, the 
husband shall henceforth be deemed to be no longer a member 
of the subscriber’s family in matters to which these by-laws relate, 
unless the subscriber subsequently cancels formally in writing her 
notice excluding him. 

Note I. — ‘Children’ means legitimate children. 

Note II. — An adopted child shall be considered to be a child when the 
Secretary or, if any doubt arises in the mind of the Secretary, the 
Chairman, Is satisfied that under the personal law of the sub- 
scriber, adoption is legally recognised as conferring the status of a 
natural child, but in that case only. 

(g) “Fund" means the Coir Board Contributory Provident Fund; 

(h) “Leave" means any kind of leave sanctioned for the staff of the Coir 

Board; 

(i) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Board; 

(j) “Year” means financial year. 

Constitution and Management of the Fund 

3. (a) There shall be a Provident Fund for the employees of the Board not 
being: — 

(1) a person in the service of the Indian Union or of a State in India whose 

services have been lent or transferred to the Board; or 

(2) a person appointed by the Board to a post created for a period of less 

than 5 years; or 

(3) a probationer. 

(b) No pensioner Civil or Military, who continued in service or was re- 
employed after the date from which his pension takes effect, should be admitted 
to the fund except with the previous concurrence of the Government of India. 

4. The Fund shall be constituted and established from such date as the Chair- 
man may appoint. 

5. Thei Fund shall consist of — 

(1) subscriptions and contributions which are to be carried to the Fund in 

accordance with these by-laws; 

(2) such additions to the Fund as the Board may at any time and from time 

to time decide to make; 

(3) the income of the Fund from loans, deposits and investments. 

Nomination 

6. (1) The Secretary shall require every subscriber, as soon as may be, to 
make a nomination confering on one or more persona the right to receive the 
amount that may stand to his credit in the Fund, in the event of his death that 
amount has become payable, or having become payable has not been paid: 

Provided that if, at the time of making the nomination, the subscriber has 
a family, the nomination shall not be in favour of any person or persons other 
than the members of his family. 

(2) If a subscriber nominates more than one person under clause (1) he shall 
specify in the nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees 
in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount that may stand to his credit 
in the Fund at any time. 

(3) Every nomination shall be in such of the forms set forth in the first and 
second Schedules as is appropriate in the circumstances. 

S A subscriber may at any time cancel a nomination by sending a notice in 
g to the Secretary: 

Provided that the subscriber shall along with such notice send a fresh nomina- 
tion made in accordance with the provisions of this by jaw. 

(S) A subscriber may provide in a nomination— 

(a) in respect of any specified nominee that in the event of his pre-deceasing 
the subscriber, the right conferred upon that nominee shall pass to 
such other person as may be specified in the nomination; 



Part II— Sec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1950 


IO27 


(b) that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of the happening 
of a contingency specified therein, provided that ii at the timei of 
making the nomination the subscriber has no family, he shall provide 
in the nomination that it shall become invalid in the event of Ills 
subsequently acquiring a family. 

(6) Immediately on the death of a nominee in respect of whom no special 
provision has been made in the nomination under sub-clause (a) of clause (5), or 
on the occurrence of any event by reason of which the nomination becomes invalid 
in pursuance of sub-clause (b) of clause (5), or the proviso thereto, the subscriber 
shall send to the Secretary a notice in writing cancelling the nomination together 
with a fresh nomination made in accordance with the provisions of this by-law. 

(7) Every nomination made, and every notice of cancellation given by a sub- 
scriber to the extent that it is valid, shall take effect on the date on which it is 
received by the Secretary. 


Subscriber’s Accounts 

7. A 11 account shall be opened in the name of each subscriber in which shall be 
credited: — 

(a) the subscriber’s subscriptions; 

(b) contributions made under by-law 11 by the Board to his account; 

(c) interest as provided by by-law 12 on subscriptions; 

(d) interest as provided by by-law 12 on contributions; 

Conditions and rates of subscriptions 

8. (a) Every subscriber shall subscribe monthly to the Fund when on duty; 

' (b) a subscriber may, at his option, not subscribe during leave; 

(c) the subscriber shall intimate his election not to subscribe during the leave 
in writing to the Secretary before he goes on leave. Failure to givei due and 
timely intimation shall be deemed to constitute an election to subscriba The 
option of a subscriber intimated under this sub-clause shall be Anal. 

9. (1) The amount of subscription to the Fund shall be at a rate of l/16th of 
the monthly emoluments of the subscriber: 

Provided that if a subscriber is on duty for a part of the month and on leave 
for the remainder of that month and if he had elected not to subscribe during 
leave, the amount of subscription payable shall be proportionate to the number 
of days spent on duty in the month. 

(2) The amount of subscription payable under clause (1) shall be calculated 
to the nearest whole anna, 6 pies and more counting as the next higher anna. 

Realisation of subscriptions 

10. The Board shall have the power to deduct from the emoluments of any 
subscriber the subscription due from him and the principal and interest on the 
advance if any made to him from the Fund. 

Contribution by the Board 

11. (1) The Board shall on the 31st March of every year make a contribution 
to the account of each subscriber: 

Provided that if the subscriber quits the service or dies during the year, contri- 
bution shall be credited to his account for the period between the close of the 
preceding year and the date of the casualty. 

(2) The contribution by the Board to the Fund shall be equal to the aggregate 
of the subscriptions of the subscriber each year. 

(3) The amount of contribution payable under clause (2) shall be calculated 
to the nearest whole anna, 6 pies and more counting as the next higher anna. 

Interest 

12. (1) The Board shall pay to the credit of the subscriber interest at such 

rate not below the: current rate of interest on Post Office Savings Bank deposits, 
as the Board may from time to time prescribe, on the amount at his credit in 
the Fund. 1 



1028 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


(2) Interest shall be calculated on the balance at the credit of a subscriber on 
the 31st March of the preceding year. 

(3) When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber has become pay- 
able, interest shall thereupon be credited under this by-law in respect only of 
the period from the beginning of the current year or from the dale of deposit 
us the case may be, upto the date on which the amount standing at the credit 
of the subscriber became payable. 

Circumstances in which accumulations are payable 

13. When a subscriber quits thei service, the amount standing to his credit in 
the Fund shall, subject to any deduction under by-law 15, become payable to him. 

14, Subject to any deduction under by-law 15, on the death of a subscriber 
before the amount standing to his credit has become payable, or, where the 
amount has become payable, before payment has been made — - 

(1) When the subscriber leaves a family- 

la) If a nomination made by tho subscriber in accordance with the provisions 
or by-law 6 in favour of a member or members of his family subsists, the amount 
standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to which the nomination 
relates shall become payable to his nominee or nominees in the proportion 
specified in the nomination and in the event of such nominee or nominees pre- 
deceasing the subscriber, the said amount shall become payable to the alternative 
nominee or nominees in the manner indicated in the declaration form. 

(b) If no such nomination in favour of a member or members of the family 
of the subscriber subsists, or if such nomination relates only to a part of the 
amount standing to his credit in the Fund, the whole amount or the part thereof 
to which the nomination does not relate, as the case may be, shall, notwith- 
standing any nomination purporting to be in favour of any person other than a 
member of 'his family, become payable to the members of his family in equal 
shares: 

Provided that no share shall be payable to: — 

(i) sons who have attained majority; 

lii) sons of a deceased son who have attained majority; 

(iii) married daughters whose husbands are alive; 

(iv) married daughters of a deceased son whose husbands are alive; 

if there is any member of the family other than those specified in clauses (i), (ii), 
(iii) and (iv): 

Provided also that the widow or widows and the child or children of a deceased 
son shall receive between them in equal parts only thei share which that son would 
have received, if he had survived the subscriber and had been exempted from the 
provisions of sub-clause (i) of the first proviso. 

(2) When the subscriber leaves no family, if a nomination made by him in 
accordance with the provisions of by-law 6 in favour of any person or persons 
subsists, the amount standing to his credit in the Fund or the part thereof to 
which the nomination relates, shall become payable to his nominee or nominees 
in the proportion specified in the. nomination, and in the event of such nominee 
or nominees predeceasing the subscriber, the said amount shall become payable 
to the alternative nominee or nominees in the manner indicated in the declaration 
form. 


Deductions 

15. Subject to the condition that no deduction may be made which reduces 
the credit by more Lhan the amount of any contribution by the Board with interest 
thereon credited under by-law 11 before the amount standing to the credit of 
a subscriber in the Fund is paid out of the Fund, the Board may direct the 
deduction therefrom and payment to the Board of: — 

(a) any amount if a subscriber has been dismissed from the service for 
grave misconduct; 

Provided thal, if the order of dismissal is subsequently cancelled, the 
amount so deducted shall, on his reinstatement in the service, be 
replaced at his credit in the Fund; 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1056 


1029 


(b) any amount, if a subscriber resigns his employment under the Board 

within five years of the commencement thereof otherwise than by 
reason of superannuation or a declaration by competent medical 
authority that he is unfit for further service. 

(c) any amount due under a liability incurred by the subscriber to the 

Board. 


Payment 

16. (1) When the amount standing to the credit of a subscriber in the Fund 
or the balance thereof after any deduction under by-law 15, becomes payable, it 
shall be the duty of the Secretary after satisfying himsedf, when no such deduction 
has been directed under that by-law, that no deduction is to be made, to make 
payment as provided for in these by-laws. 

(2) Any person who desires to claim payment under this by-law shall send a 
written application in that behalf to the Secretary. 

Advances from the Fund 

17. A temporary advance may be granted to a subscriber from the amount 
.standing to his credit in the Fund at the discretion of the Secretary subject to 
the following conditions; — 

(a) No advance shall be granted unless the Secretary is satisfied that the 
applicant’s pecuniary circumstances justify it, and thut it will be expended on 
the following object or objects and not otherwise— 

(i) to pay 1 expenses incurred in connection with the prolonged illness of 

the applicant or any person actually depending on him; 

(ii) to pay for the overseas passage lor reasons of health or education of 

the applicant or any person actually depending on him; 

(iii) to pay obligatory expenses on a scale appropriate to the applicant’s 

status in connection with marriages, funerals, or ceremonies which 

by his religion it is incumbent on him to perform. 

(b) An advance shall not, except for special reasons, exceed threei months’ 
pay and shall, in no case, exceed the amount of subscriptions and interest thereon 
standing to the credit of the subscriber in the Fund. 

(c) An advance shall not, except for special reasons, be granted until at least 
twelve months after the final repayment of all previous advances together with 
interest thereon, unless the amount already advanced does not exceed two-thirds 
.of the amount admissible under clause (b). 

(d) The Secretary shall record in writing his reason for granting the advance; 

Provided that if the reason is of a confidential nature it may be communicated 

to the Secretary personally and/or confidentially. 

18. (JJ An advance shall be recovered from the subscriber in such number 
of equal monthly instalment as the Secretary may direct, but such number shall 
not be less than twelve unless the subscriber so elects, or in any case more than 
twenty-four. A subscriber, may, at his option make repayments in a smaller 
number of instalments than that prescribed. Each instalment shall be a number 
of whole rupees, thci amount of the advance being raised or reduced, if necessary, 
to admit of the fixation of such instalments. 

(2) Recovery shall be made in the maimer provided in by-law 10 and shall 
commence from the first occasion after the advance is made, on which thei sub- 
scriber draws emoluments, other than the leave salary, for a full month. 
Recoveries shall not be made, cKcept wi-th the subscriber’s consent while ho is 
on leave and may be postponed by the Secretary during the recovery of an 
advance of pay granted to the subscriber. 

(3) If more than one advance has been made to a subscriber each advance 
shall be treated separately for the purpose of recovery. 

(4) (a) After the principal of the advance has been fully repaid, interest 
shall be paid thereon at the rate of one-fifth per cent of the principal for each 
month or broken portion of a month during the period between the drawal and 
complete repayment of the principal. 

(b) Interest shall ordinarily be recovered in on© instalment in the month 
after complete repayment of the principal but, if the period referred to in sub- 
clause (a) exceeds twenty months, interest may, if ihe subscriber so desires, be 



1030 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1966 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


recovered in two equal monthly instalments. The method of recovery shall be 
that provided in clause (2) Payments shall be rounded to the nearest anna in the 
manner provided in clause (3) of by-law 11. 

(5) If an advance has been granted to a subscriber and drawn by him and 
the advance is subsequently disallowed before repayment is completed, the whole 
or balance of the amount withdrawn, shall, with interest at the rate provided 
in by-law 12(1), forthwith be repaid by the subscriber to the Fund or in default, 
be ordered ay the Secretary to be recovered by deduction from the emoluments 
of the subscriber by instalments or otherwise as may be directed by the 
Secretary. 

(6) Recoveries made under this by-law shall be credited, as they are made, 
to the subscribers’ account in the Fund. 


Procedure 

19. (1) All sums paid into the Fund under these by-laws shall be accounted 
for in the Books of the Board in an account named “The Coir Board Contributory 
Provident Fund”. 

(2) Such accounts shall be examined and audited annually by the auditors 
appointed by the Governmenl under the Act. 

(3) All expenses of the Fund shall be met by the Board from the income of 
the Fund. 

(4) The custody and disbursal of the Fund shall be regulated in accordance 
with by-laws 21, 22 and 23 of the Coir Board (Transaction of Business, 
Conditions of service of employees and maintenance of Accounts) By-Laws, 1955. 

20. (1) As soon as possible after the 31st March of each year, the Secretary 
shall send to each subscriber a statement of his account in the Funds, showing 
the opening balance as on the 1st April of the year, the total amount credited or 
debited during the year, the total amount of interest credited as on 31st March 
of the year and the closing balance of that date. The Secretary shall attach to 
the statement of account an enquiry whether the subscriber — 

(a) desires to make any alternation in any nomination made under by-law 


(b) has acquired a family (in case where the subscriber has made no 
nomination in favour of a member of his family under clause (2) of 
by-law 6). 

(2) Subscribers should satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the annual 
statement, and errors should be brought to the notice of the Secretary within one 
month from the date of receipt of the statement. 

21. All applications under these by-laws shall be addressed to the Secretary, 
Coir Board. 

22. Every subscriber shall sign an agreement sett forth in the third Schedule 
annexed to these by-laws agreeing to abide and bound by these by-laws. 

23. (1) The Fund shall be wound up on the dissolution of the Board. 

(2) On the winding up of thei Fund, the assets shall be realised and distributed 
amongst subscribers in accordance with their accounts. 

First Schedule 
Vide By-law 6(3) 

Forms of Nomination 

I. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the person mentioned below, who is a member of my family a* defined in 
rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules, (India) to receive the amount that may stand to, 



Past IF-S*c. 31 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, JUNE 10, 1950 


1031 


my credit irt the Fund, In the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having 
become payable, has not been paid : — 


Name & address of 
nominee 


Rel ationship Age 
with subs- 
criber 


Contingencies on the 
happening of which 
the nomination shall 
become invalid 


Name, address & 
relationship of the 
person, if any, to 
whom the right of 
the nominee shall 
ass in the event of 
is predeceasing the 
sub8Ciiber 


Date this day of 19 

at 


Signature of Subscriber 


Two witnesses to signature : — 

1 

2 , 

II. When the subscriber has a family and wishes to nominate more than one member thereof. 

I hereby nominate the persons mentioned below who are members of my family as defined in 

| 2 of thp Contributory Provident Fund Rules(India)to receive the amount that may stand to my 
credit in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount has become payable or having, 
become payable has not been paid and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the 
said persona in the manner shown belw against their names : — 


Name & address 
of nominees 

Relationship 
with sub- 
scriber 

Age Amount or share 
of accumula- 
tions to be paid 
to each 

Contingencies 
on the hap- 
pening of which 
the nomina- 
tion ehall be- 
come invalid. 

Name, address 
& relationship 
of the person, 
if any, to whom 
the right of tho 
nominee shall 
pass In the event 
of his predo- 
ceasing the sub- 
scriber. 






Dated this 

1 ..at 


day of 


....19 


Signature of Subscriber 


Two witnesses to signature : — 

1 

2 

NpTE. — This column should be filled in so as to cover the whole amount that may stantd to the 
credit of the subscriber in the Fund at any time. 




noj2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


Second Schedule 
[Vide Hy-law 6(3) ] 

Forms of Nomination 

I, When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India) 
hereby nominate the person mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand to my credit 
in the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount has become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid : — 


Name, address and 
Contingencies on relationship of the 
the happening of person, if any, to 
Name & address of nominee. Relationship Age which the nomina- whom the right of the 

with tion shall become in- nominee shall pass in 

subscriber. valid. the event of his pre- 

deceasing the sub- 
scriber. 


Dated this 

at 

Two witnesses to signature: 


day of 19 

Signature of Subscriber 


1. 

2 . 


Note. — Where a subscriber who has no family makes a nomination, he shall specify in this column 
that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of Iris subsequently acquiring a family 

II. When the subscriber has no family and wishes to nominate more than one person. 

I, having no family as defined in rule 2 of the Contributory Provident Fund Rules (India 
hereby nominate the persons mentioned below to receive the amount that may stand so my credit in 
the Fund, in the event of my death before that amount hag become payable, or having become 
payable has not been paid, and direct that the said amount shall be distributed among the said per- 
sons in .the manner shown below against their names : — 


Name & address 
of nominees. 


Relationship Age. 
with sub- 
scriber. 


•Amount or 
share of 
accumula- 
tions to be 
paid to each. 


Contingencies’* 
on the happen- 
ing of which 
the nomination 
shall become in- 
valid. 


Name, address & 
relationship of the per- 
son, if any, to whom 
the right of the nomi- 
nee shall pass in the 
event of his predecea- 
sing the subscriber. 


Dated this dav of T 

■ at ' " " " 

_ . Signature of Subscriber . . 

Two witnesses to signature : ' 

1 


•Note. Fhis column should be filled in su as to cover the whole amount that may stand to the 

credit of the subscriber in tile Fund at any time. ' ' 

♦•Note.— Where a subscriber who has no iamily makes a nomination, he shall specify in this 
column that the nomination shall become invalid in the event of his subsequently 
acquiring a Iflmlly. H 1 




Past H— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1966 


1033' 


Third Schedui i; 

( By-i aw 22 ) 

Form of Agreement. 

I hereby declare that I have rcRd llic Coir Board Provident Bund by-laws, and that I agree to- 
abide atid be bound by them. 

Date day of 19 at 

Name in Full 

Date of birth 

Date of joining appointment 

Salary per mensem Rupees 


Signature 


Si ation 
Date . . 


Ernakulam ; 

Date, 


Two witnesses to Signature. 

Secretary. 


[No. 42.LI(B)(31)/55.J 
P. C. ALEXANDER, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 1 1th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1367. — The following amendment in the Central Tea Board (Provident 
Fund) By-laws, 1952, made by the Tea Board in oxereise of the powers conferred 
by sub-section (1) or section 50 of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953), is hereby con- 
firmed by the Central Government as required by sub-section (2) of the said 
section and published for general information, namely: — 

To by-law 4 of the said by-laws, the following, further proviso shall be added 
at the end, namely: — 

“Provided further that no person, who has retired from Government 
Service on a retiring or superannuation pension, shall, if he is re- 
employed in a post under the Board, be eligible to subscribe to the 
Fund without the previous sanction of the Central Government.” 

[No. 47(6)Plant/56.J 


Rubber Control 
New Delhi, the 12 th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1368.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section 
(4) of section 12 of the Rubber Act, 1947 (XXIV of 1947), the Rubber Board hereby 
fixes the periods from 1st April 1956 to 30th September, 1956, and from 1st 
October 1956 to 31st March, 1957, as the periods in respect of which assessment 
shall be made for the period 1 st April, 1956 to 31st March, 1957 of the amount of 
duty of excise fixed under the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O. 1664, dated the 1st August, 1955. 


Kottayam; 

'The 22nd May, 1956. 


N. Krishna Pillai, 
Secretary. 


[No. 20(5)Plant/56.] 
P. V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 



1034 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


New Delhi , the 13 th June , 1956 

S.R.O. 1369. — ESS.COMM/IKON&STELL-2(c)/AM(2). — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-clause (c) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956, the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following furthe 
amendment shall be made in the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O 11)2/ ESS. COMM / IRON &STEEL- 
4(c), published m the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, dated the 12th May, 
1956, as amended from time to time, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Notification for the entries— 


“BILASPUR 

I 

Civil Supplies Officer Bilaspur, 
Simla Hills. 

4, S, 18, 20, 24 (b), 24 (c) 
& 24(d). 

HIMACHAL 

PRADESH 

I. 

Director of Civil Supplies, 
Himachal Pradesh, Simla. 

4, ; and 23. 


2, 

District Agricultural Officers, 
Govt- of Himachal Pradesh, 
Simla. 

28(bj & (c) (For Iron 
and Steel only).” 


The following entries, in the respective columns, shall be substituted, namely : — 


“ Himachal Pradesh 


l. Director of Civil Supplies, 

Himachal Pradesh, Simla. 

2. District Agricultural Officers, 

Govt, of Himachal Pradesh. 


4, 5, 18, 20, 23, 24(&), 
24(c) and 24(d). 

4, 5 and 28(5; & (c) 
(For Iron and Steel only 


3- District Cooperative and Supplies 4, 5, 18, 20, 24(b), 24(c) 

Officers, Government of Himachal and 24(d). 

Pradesh, 


[No. SC(A) -4(253/B.] 

S.R.O. 1370 — ESS.COMM/IRON & STEEL-2(c) /Am(l).— In exercise of the powers 
•conferred by sub-clause (c) of Clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, 
1956,. the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment 
shall be made in the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O. 1112/ESS.COMM/IRON&STEEL-2(c), publlsh- 
-ed in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, dated the 12th May, 1956, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification, In Column 2 thereof, against 
PUNJAB, for the entry — 

‘'2. Deputy Director, Controlled Commodities, Government of Punjab, Simla.", 
the following entry shall be substituted — 

“2. Deputy Director, Supplies, Government o I Punjab, Simla.” 

[No. I&S(A)-4(253),] 
P. S. V. RAGHAVAN, Under Sacy. 


New Delhi, the 16th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1371, — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by clause 4 of the 
Cotton Control Order, 1955 (notification No. S.R.O. 2308, dated the 13th October, 
1955) and in superseission of notification No. S.R.O. 1613, dated the 22nd July 
1955, I hereby prescribe that contracts for the sale or purchase of Indian cotton 
produced during the cotton season 1955-56, shall be subject to the following 
restrictions and conditions, namely: — 

(1) No person shall enter into a contract for the sale or purchase of cotton 

at a price less than the minimum price or more than the maximum 
price as fixed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 of the 
said Order in reepect of Indian cotton produced during the cotton 
season 1955-56, as applicable to the subject matter of the contract, 
having regard to the place of delivery thereunder; 

(2) No person shall enter into a contract of sale with an overseas buyer 

for the purposes of export unless he holds a valid export licence; 



Part II— Sec. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 1035 


(3) Every contract in which the final price is not named shall he construed 
as il the following clause was inserted therein, namely:— 

the price payable shall be within the range of the minimum and the 
maximum prices fixed by the Textile Commissioner under clause 3 
of the Cotton Control Order, 1955, in respect of Indian cotton 
produced during the cotton season 1955-56 

Sd./-V. Nanjait’a, 
Textile Commissioner. 

[No. 24(22)-CT(A)/55-7.] 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi , the 9th June, 1956 


S.R.O, 1372. — In the Ministry of Commerce and Industry’s Notification No. 
S.R.O. 2243 dated the 6th October, 1955, published at pages 2219 — 2225 of the 
Gazette of India, xtraordinary, Part II— Section 3, dated the 8th October, 1955: — 
(i) at page 2225, for “Rs, 20” printed in the entry against item (viii) in 
Note 2, read “Rs. 50”. 


Sd./-V. Nan.tappa, 


Textile Commissioner. 


[No. 24(23)-CT(A)/55-3.] 
S. A. TECKCHANDANI Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the lit h June , 1956 

S.R.O. 1373. — IDRA/6/2/Am(4), — In pursuance of rule 8 of the Development 
Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri K. C. Maitra, Messrs. Sankey Electrical Stampings Ltd., Bombay, as a member 
of the Development Council established for the scheduled industries engaged in 
the manufacture and production of electric motors and of machinery and equip- 
ment for the generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy (exclud- 
ing house service meters and panel instruments), in place of Mr. A. R, Driessen, 
who has resigned, and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No. S.R.O. 354/IDRA/6/2, dated the 1st February 1955, namely: — • 

In paragraph 1 of the said Order, under the category of members “being persons 
who in the opinion of the Central Government are capable of representing the 
interests of owners of industrial undertakings in the said schedule industries,” for 
entry No, 5A, the following entry shall be substituted, namely:- — 

“5A. Shri K. C. Maitra, Messrs. Sankey Electrical Stampings Ltd., Bombay.” 

LNo, 5(16)IA(GB)/56.1 
R. N. KAPUR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 4th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1374. — In pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (s) of Section 4 of 
the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946), the Central Government 
is pleased to notify the appointment of Shri A. Balarami Reddy, Member, Rajya 
Sabha, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee wee Shri Vailuri 
V enketar amana. 


[No. 6-12/56-Com.L] 



1036 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 18, 1956 [Part II— Sec. 3 

CORRIGENDUM 

(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 11 th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1375. — In this Ministry Notification of oven number, dated the 25th May, 
1956; for the words within brackets appearing under the heading “Schedule” 
substitute the following: — 

“(Information to be furnished by Ginning and Pressing Factories. 
Factories which do not intend to work during 1956-57 season must 
clearly mention so at the top of this form)”. 

[No. F.l-87/56-Com.II.l 
MOKAND LALL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the Qth June 1956 

S.R.O. 1376. — In pursuance of clauses (8) and (13) (b) of rule 2 of the Indian 
Port Health Rules, 1955, the Central Government hereby declares the diseases 
mentioned below to be infectious diseases, and the period of incubation in .res- 
pect of these shall be as indicated against each, namely: — 


Infectious diseases 


Period of incubation 


Chicktnpox 

Cerebrospinal meningitis 
Diphtheria 
Influential Pneumonia 


14 day*. 
10 days. 
7 day*. 

5 days. 


[No. F.15-2/56-IH.] 
A. T. SESITADRI, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 6t.h June 1956 

S.R.O, 1377. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Drugs Rules, 
1945, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (23 of 1940) (consequent 
on the proposal to notify under sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of section 3 of the 
said Act thei substances specified below to be drugs), is published as 
required by the said sections for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 6th September, 1956. 

(a) Chemical contraceptives. 

(b) The following Insecticides: — 

(i) Benzene Hexachloride and its preparations. 

(ii) Dicophanc (Dichloro Dipheny 1 Tricljlorethane) and its preparations. 

(hi) Pyrethrum and its preparations. 

2. Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person in 
respect of the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by 
the Central Government. 

DRAFT AMENDMENTS 

In the said Rules, after rule 124, the following rule shall be added, namely:— 

“125(a) Standards for substances (other than food) intended to affect the 
structure or any function of the human body. 

Chemical Contraceptives. 

The standards for these shall be the formula approved as safe by the 
Central Government and displayed in the prescribed manner on the 
label on the container. 



Part II— Sec. 3]l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1950 103*7 


(b) Standards for substances inuedecl Lu be used in the destruction of 
vermin or insects which cause disease in human beings or animals. 

Insecticides. 

The standards for these substances shall be the standards of identity, 
purity and strength prescribed in the British Pharmacopoeia or the 
British Pharmaceutical Codex or any. other prescribed pharmo- 
copoeia or the formula or list of ingredients displayed in the pres- 
cribed manner on the label on the container”. 

[No. F.1-44/55-D.] 

T. V. ANANTANARAYANAN, Undeir Secy. 


New Delhi, the Wi June 195G 

S.R.C. 1378.— It is hereby notified for general information that in partial 
modification of this Ministry’s notification No, F.4-1/54-LSG dated the 24th 
March, 1954 and in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of sub-section 
(1) of section 3 of the Delhi Joint Wider and Sewage Board Act, 1926, (XXI11 
of 1926) read with sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of the rules made thereunder, the 
Central Government have nominated Dr. M. S. Chandha, Director of Health 
Services, Delhi Stale, us a member of the Board in place of Shri Balbir Singh 
Saigai, Superintending Engineer, (Delhi Slate), who has resigned with effect 
from the 22nd March, 1956. 

[No. F.37-24/56-LSG.] 
A. V. VENKATASUBBAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

Pouts 

New Delhi, the 8th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1379, — In pursuance of sub-section (.7) of Section 6 of the Bombay 
Port Trust Act, 1879 (Bombay Act VI of 1379), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following return received from Ihe Secretary, Bombay Chamber of 
Commerce, namely: — 

Return showing the name of ihe gentleman elected bn the Bombay Chamber 
of Commerce in accordance with the provisions of the Pomlut.i Port. Trust Act, 
.1879 to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay during the 
absev-e on leave of Shri is. M. Scott. 


Dale of elect ion Name of the gciulenian Panel of Commercial 

interests represented 


28th May, 1956. Shri 15 . W. Malcolm. 


Oil 


[No. 8.C-PI(61)/56] 
K. BALAKRISHNAN Under Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 11 th June , 1956 

S.R.O. 1SSQ. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 of the Delhi 
Road Transport Authority Act, 1950 (XIII of 1950), Ihe Central Government here- 
by makes the following further amendment in (he Delhi Road Transport Autho- 
rity (Functions and Duties of the General Manager and Chief Accounts Ottleer) 
Rules, 1952, namely: — ■ 

For sub-rule (2) of rule 4 of the said Rules the following shall be substituted 
namely: — 

"(2) The Chief Accounts Officer shall give his comments on every new 
proposal having a financial implication going before the General 



THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


1038 


Manager and his views on such proposal shall not be over-ruled ex- 
cept with the permission of the Authority. He shall also have the 
right to refer to the Authority any matter having a financial implica- 
tion which, in his opinion, ought to be brought to its notice”. 

[No. 18-TAG (23 1/54,] 
K, NARAYANAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 7 th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1381 — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Schedule to the 
Code of Civil Pocedute, 1908 (Act V of 1908) the Central Government hereby appoints the officers 
specified in column 1 of the table below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the snlarie 
and allowances of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in cloumn 2 of the said tabls 
shall be sent 


Table 


Officers to whom notice should be sent Officers whose salaries and allowances are 

attached 


Accountant General, Central Revenues, New Delhi 

Deputy Chief Inspector of Explosives, Department 
of Explosives, New Delhi, 

Accountant General, Bombay 
Inspector of Explosives, West Circle, Bombay 

Accountant General, West Bengal, Calcutta 

Inspector of Explosives, East Circle, Calcutta . 

Accountant General, Madras 

Inspector of Explosives, South Circle, Madras 

Accountant General, Uttar Pradesh, Allahabad 

Inspector of Explosives, North Circle, Agra . 

Accountant General, Madhya Pradesh, Nagpur 

Inspector of Explosives, Central Circle, Nagpur 

Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry of Works, 
Housing and Supply, New Delhi. 

Deputy Petroleum Officer, Petroleum Division, 
New Delhi. 


Gazetted Officers in the Department of 
Explosives, New Delhi. 

Non-Gazetted Officers in the Department 
of Explosives, New Delhi. 

Gazetted Officers in the office of the Ins- 
pector of Explosives, West Circle, Bombay. 

Non-Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, West Circle, 
Bombay. 

Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives East Circle, 
Calcutta. 

. Non-Gazetted officers In the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, East Circle 
Calcutta. 

. Gazetted Officers in the Office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, South Circle, 
Madras. 

. Non-Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, South Circle, 
Madras. 

. Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, North Circle, 
Agra. 

. Non-Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives , North Circle 
Agra. 

Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, Central Circle 
Nagpur. 

Non-Gazetted Officers in the office of the 
Inspector of Explosives, Central Circle, 
Nagpur. 

Gazetted Officers in the Petroleum Division, 
New Delhi, 

Non-Gazetted Officers in the Petroleum 
Division, New Delhi. 


[No. S&PII-Exp-i7(6)56.] 


C. A. SUBRAHMANYAM, Dy. Secy. 



Paht II— tSec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1966 


1039 


New Delhi, the 7th June 1936 

S.R.O. 1382.- — In pursuance of clause (a) of Section of the Government 
Premises (Eviction) Act, 1950, (XXVII of 1950), the Central Government hereby 
authorises all Regional Settlement Commissioners, all Additional Regional Settle- 
ment Commissioners and all Managing Officers under the Ministry of Rehabilita- 
tion, wjthm their respective jurisdictions to perform the functions of a competent 
authority under the said Act in respect of the acquired evacuee property and the 
Government huilt property of the Central or State Governments in connection 
with the rehabilitation of displaced persons. 


[No. 13/6/56- WII.] 


New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1383. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Govern- 
ment Premises (Eviction) Act (XXvII of 1950), the Central Government hereby 
directs that thei power conferred upon it to hear appeals under section 5 of the 
said Act shall, in relation to an appeal from an order of a Regional Settlement 
Commissioner, an Additional Regional Settlement Commissioner or a Managing 
Officer under the Ministry of Rehabilitation be exercisable by the Chief Settlement 
Commissioner under the Ministry of Rehabilitation, 


[No. 18/5/66 -WII-A.] 
M. B. RAM, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1060 

S.R.O. 1384 — In pursuance of rule 160 of the Indian Aircraft Rules, 1937, the 
Central Government is pleased to extend for a further period upto the 31st 
December 1956, the exemption granted in the order of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Communications No, 10-A/2-51, dated 14th March 1952, to Indian 
registered aircraft engaged in international public transport from thei operation 
of clause (a) of sub-rule (4) of rule 38 of the said Rules, subject to the conditions 
specified at (ii) to (vi) in the said order. 

2. This exemption shall apply to flight between India and Pakistan, Nepal 
or Ceylon or such other destination as may be approved by the Director General 
of Civil Aviation, 


[No. 1O-A/1-50.] 
D. R. KOHLI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 5th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1385. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 56 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Govenment hereby directs that (he following amendment shall be made In the 
Administration of Evacuee Properly (Central) Rules, 1950, namely: 

In sub-rule (7) of rule 31 of the said Rules, the figure ‘5’ shall be omitted. 

[No. 42-1 (25) /55-Prop.I. ] 

J. J. KARAM, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 6th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1386.— In pursuance of sub-section (1) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the 
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (V of 1908), the Central 
Government hereby appoints the officers specified in column (1) of the table 



1040 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1656 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


below as officers to whom notices n" .• .1 
anccs of the officers specified in the > 
said table shall be sent: — - 

Tahi.e 


O I Rcers lo whom notices should 
be sent. 


(i) 


Pay and Accounts Officer, Ministry 
of Rehab dilation. New Delhi. 


Under Secretary (Administration) 
Ministry of Rehabilitation (Main 
Secretariat), New Delhi, 


.; r ie salaries and allow - 
i ■" • , in column Cl) of the 


Officers whose salaries and allowances 
arc attached. 

Gazetted Officers in the Ministry of 
Rehabilitation (Main LSceretariat) New 
Delhi. 

Non-gazetted officers in the Ministry of 
Rehabilitation (Main Secretariat), New 
Delhi. 

[No. F. 5/18/51'- Admti. I 
K. P. MISRA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 1th June, 1956. 

S.R.O. 1387. — In exercise of thei powers conferred by section 52 of the Admi- 
nistration of Evacuee Property Act.. 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby declares that with effect from tire date of this notification the pro- 
visions of the said Act shall cease to apply to or in relation to the class of pro- 
perty described in the Schedule. 

The Schedule 

Any agricultural land or a kutcha house situated in the A (war or Bharutpur 
district of the State of Rajasthan, the possession of which has been restored to 
anv Meo belonging to cither of the said districts who migrated to Pakistan 
but who returned to India before the 18th day of October 1949 for permanent 
re-scttlement in India. 


[No. 2(176)/52-Prop.I. | 
P. G. ZACHARIAH, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 8th June, 1956, 

S.R.O. 1388. — In this Ministry’s Notification No. 10/16/56-SII dat-d the 22nd 
May, I960, for “Shri Hoop Chandra” appearing as the name of the Custodian of 
Evacuee Property, Uttar Pradesh, read '‘Shri Rup Chandra”. 

TNo. 1O/1G/50-S.II,] 

Netc Dclh‘. the 11th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1389.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G, B. Lalwanl, as Assistant 
Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the stud Act, with effect from the date he took charge of 
his office. 

[No. 5/19/56-SIKII).] 
RULWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

Neia Delhi, the 6lh June 1956, 

S.R.O. 1390.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (5) of seotion 
5 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 (IX of 1948), the 



Part II -Sec. 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1956 1041 


Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
Dock Workers (Advisory Committee) Rules, 1949, namely: — 

Alter rule 5 of the said rules the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“5-A. Reconstitution of the. Committee . — The Central Government may 
reconstitute the Committee under rule 3 as amended by the notifi- 
cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
No. S.R.O. 137(1, dated the 23rd May, 1956 and when the Committee 
is so reconstituted, the term of office of the members of the Com- 
mittee then existing shall expire". 


[No. DC-100.] 
K. N. NAMBIAR, Dy. Secy. 


Neu > Delhi, the 6th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1391. — In pursuance of sub-clause (3) of clause 4 of the Culcutta Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1951, the Central Government 
has appointed Shri Ph. H. Rogaar with effect from the 11th May, 1956, as a 
member of the Calcutta Dock Labour Board in the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Shri W. R. B. Sample with effect from that date, and directs that 
the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O. 1908, dated the 7th September, 
1955, namely: — 

“Members representing the employers of dock workers and shipping companies .” 

For item (3), the following item shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(3) Shri Ph. II. Rogaar, Representative of the Calcutta Liners’ Conference. 
Calcutta/U.S.A. Conference, Calcutta continental Conference and the 
Bay of Bcngal/Japan/Bay of Bengal Conference’’. 

[CDLB(2)(4)56.] 
[F. No. Fac. 74(64)/56.J 


New Delhi, the 9th June 1156 

S.R.O. 1393. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
8 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (XIX of 1925), the Central Government hereby 
odds to the Schedule to the said Act the namci of the following public institution, 
namely: — 

“The Madras Dock Labour Board, established under the Madras Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1952”. 

[No. Fac.70(18)(i).| 

S.R.O. 1393. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
" of the Provident Funds Acl. 1925 (XIX of 1925). the Central Government hereby 
directs that the provision of the said Act shall apply to the Provident Funds 
established for the benefit, of the employees of the Madras Dock Labour Board 
including the employees of the Administrative Body established under the Madras 
Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1952, and the reserve pool 
workers registered under the said Scheme.” 

[No. Fac.7G(lG)(ii).l 

S.R.O. 1394. — Whereas tho Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in the Repuirs and Maintenance Workshop belonging to the Overseas Communica- 
tions Service, Central Telegraph Office, Bombay, under the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Communications are in receipt of benefits substantially similar 
or superior to the benefits provided under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (XXXIV of 1948); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts the said factory from all the pro- 
visions of the said Act for a further period of one vear with effect from the 23rd 
June, 1956. 


[No. F.HI-6(67)/50.] 



1042 


[Part II — i Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 10, 1956 


New Delhi, the 11th June , 1956 

S.R.O. 1395. — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in each of the workshops of the Central Tractor Organisation at Nciw Delhi and 
Bairagarh under the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, are in receipt of benefits 
substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts each of thei said workshops from all 
the provisions of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the 7th July, 1956, in continuation of Notification of the Government of India in 
the/ Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 1646, dated the 7th July, 1956. 

[No. F.SS.138(21)Pt.II.] 


New Delhi, the 12th June t 1956 

S.R.O. 1396, — Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
in the Transport Depot of the Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta are in 
receipt of benefits substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under 
the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948); 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts the said Depot from all tile pro- 
visions of the said Act. 


[No. HI-6(35)/S0.] 
B. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 6lh June 1958 

S.R.O. 1397. — In pursuance of paragraph of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri N. C. Maitra, Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of West Bengal, Labour Department, to be the 
member of the Regional Committee for the state of West Bengal and directs 
that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 1278, dated the 27th June, 
1953, namely: — 


In the said notification, for item (2), the following Item shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(2) Shri N. C. Maitra, Deputy Secretary to thei Government of West 
Bengal, Labour Department, Calcutta.” 


[PF. 45(12)/56.1 


S.R.O. 1398. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Coal 
Mines Provident Fund and Bonus Schemes Act, 1948 (XLVI of 1948), (he 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Coal Mines Provident Fund Scheme, namely: — 

In the said Scheme, to sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 33, the following 
proviso shall be added, namely: — 

“Provided that the Commissioner may direct that any payment under 
this paragraph shall be made in one or the other modes specified 
in clauses (i) to (iv) of sub-paragraph (3) of paragraph 33A of this 
Scheme.” 

[PF. 2(1O4)/50.1 


S.R.O. 1399. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sciction (1) of 
section 13 of the Employees, Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952), the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri Ved Prakash Mahajan, Provident 
Fund Inspector, to be an Inspector for the State of Punjab and Himachal 
Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thereunder, 
in relation to factories engaged in a controlled industry or in an industry con- 
nected with a mine or an oilfield. 


[PF. 31(188)/50.] 



Part It — Sec. 3j> 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA, JUNE 16, 1850 


1043 


New Delhi, the 11th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1400. — In pursuance of Paragraph 3(1) (d) of the Employees’ Provident 
Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O. 1861, dated the 31st October, 1952, namely: — 

In the said notification for item 10, the following item shall be substituted, 
namely:— 

“10. Shri P. K. Mistry, The Associated Cement Companies Ltd., 1, Queens 
Road, Bombay-1.” 


[No. PF-33(10)50.] 

S.R.O. 1401. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952) and in supersession 
of notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour No. PF-516 
( 184) ( 1 ) , dated the 28th September 1954, the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri A. Ramumurthi, Labour Commissioner, Andhra, to bei an Inspector for the 
whole of the State of Andhra for the purposes of the said Act and of any scheme 
made thereunder, in relation to factories within that State engaged in a controlled 
industry or in an industry connected with a mine or an oilfield, 

[No. PF-31(21O)/50.] 

S.R.O. 1402. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the dispute between the Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta, and its workmen, 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 
Reference No. 25 of 1955. 


Present; 

Shri P. S. Bindra, B.A., LL.B„ Chairman. 

Parties : 

The management in relation to the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Post Box No. 158, Calcutta. 

AND 

Their workmen represented by Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpora- 
tion (Calcutta Branch) Indian Staff Union. 

APPEARANCES: 

Shri Dhirondra Nath Dc, Secretary, Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpo- 
ration (Calcutta Branch) Indian Staff Union, 31, Dalhousi Square, 
Calcutta and Shri Pravat Kar, President, Bengal Provincial Bank 
Employees Association - — (or the workmen. 

No] appearance on behalf of the management, 

AWARD 

The Central Government in cocereise of the powers conferred by sub-section 
(2) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), has referred 
the industrial dispute between the management in relation to thei Hongkong & 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, Calcutta and the, Hongkong and Shanghai Bank- 
ing Corporation, (Calcutta Branch) Indian Staff Union, relating to the termina- 
tion of services of Shri Kartick Chandra Seal, to this Tribunal by virtue of Gov- 
ernment Notification No. LR.100(21)/55, dated the 5th October, 1955. 

2. Usual notices were issued and the parties filed their respective written 
statements. The case was fixed for final disposal for 28th May 1950 at the Central 
Government Hostel, Alipore, Calcutta, On the date of hearing Shri Kartick 
Chandra Seal appeared along with Shri Dhirendra Nath De, Secretary, Hongkong 
and Shanghui Banking Corporation (Calcutta Branch) Indian Staff Union and 
Shri Pravat Kar, President, Bengal Provincial Bank Employees Association. No 
body appeared on behalf of the management, Shri Mullik, solicitor of Messrs. 
Sanderson Morgan Solicitors, was present who stated that he would represent the 
management and prayed that the case be adjourned to next day. He had no 



ICM4 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1950 


power of attorney und thci onion also objected to the appearance of a lawyer. 
Under the circumstances, the union prayed that exp arte proceedings to be taken 
against the management. I however adjourned the case to 29th May and it was 
fixed at 11.30 a.m., at the request of Shri Mullik, who underLook lo inform the 
management. On the 29t,h May, 1956, the case was called at 11.30 a.m., but though 
the workman concerned was present along with Shri Dhirendra Nath De and 
Shri Pravat Kar, but no body appeared on behalf of the management. The case 
was adjourned for half an hour to await the urrival of any body on behalf of the 
management, hut none turned up, so exparte proceedings were taken against the 
management. 


3. Shri Kartick Chandra Seal joined the service of the Bank as a temporary 
Sircar on 22nd December, 1952, and was server! wiLh a notice of discharge on 25th 
February, 1955, terminating his services with effect from 28th February, 
1955. He was allowed to have one months salary in lieu of notice. 
The case of the management is that as he was a temporary Godown Sircar, so 
the Bank could terminate his services without assigning any' reason. It was also 
stated in the written statement that his services were terminated on account of 
the closure of the particular section of work for which temporary Godown Sircars 
were required, this fact has however not been established. On the other hand it 
has been proved by the union that Shri Anil Chandra Bhor wa 3 recruited by the 
Bank on 1st March, 1955 as a poddar in cash department. Shri Kartick Chandra 
Seal had been in service of the Bank for more than two years and his services 
could not be dispensed with, without making out a case for retrenchment, which 
the management has failed to do. Under the circumstances the notice of termina- 
tion of services is illegal and he is entitled to continue in the service of the Bank. 
Even after the servicei of the notice he has been attending the office all along and 
the Bank has been paying his wages. 


I pass my award accordingly. 
The 30th May , 1956. 


(Sd.) P. S. Bindra, Chairman, 
Central Government’s Industrial Tribunal, Dhunbad. 


[No. LR-100(21)/55.1 
R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th June, I960 

S.R.O. 1403.— -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists or is apprehended between the employers in relation to the 
mica mines of Messrs. Duduwala and Company, Bhilwara, and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed, 

And Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and clause 
(c) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1917 (XIV 
of 1947), and in supersession of the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 2170 dated the 27th September, 1955, the Central 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri Anand 
Narain Kaul, R.J.S. (Higher), Judge, Industrial Tribunal, Rajasthan, Jaipur, 
shall be the solo member and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
said Tribunal, 


Schedule 

1. Bonus at the rate of four months’ wages for the year 1951-52 and 

1952-53. 

2. Quarterly bonus of 15 days wages per quarter for the year 1945-46 

to 1947-48. 

3. Increased wages for cutters, underground workers and surface workers. 

4. Grant of annual increments and refixation of pay. 

5. Grant of one month’s privilege leave and 15 days casual leave in a 

year to the monthly paid staff, 


[No. LR-2(50)/55.] 



Part n — Sfic. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16, 1035 


1045 


New Delhi , the 9th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1404. — Whereas the Central Government ia of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the Punjab and Sind Bank, Limited, and its workmen in 
respect of me matters speckled in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the dispute 
for adjudication: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section V read with 
section 10 of tha Industrial Disputes Act, 1 1)47 (XIV of 1947), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which Shri Rameshwar Dayal, 
Additional District and Sessions Judge, Delhi, Bhail be the sole Member and refers 
to him the said dispute for adjudication. 


Schedule 

Alleged wrongful termination of the services of Sarvashri Harbhajan Singh, 
Pram Singh and Hamam Singh and the relief, if any, to which they are entitled. 

[No. LR-10(10)56.] 

R. C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi ■ the 6th June, 1956 

S.R.O. 1405, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule C3) of rule 9 
read with sub-rule (3) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 
1951, and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 943, dated the 16th April, 
lOSS, the Central Government hereby re-appoints after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors Shri Radha Raman, M.P. as a member of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from the 1st March, 
1956. 


[NO. 14/1/55-FC.] 


S.R.O. 1406.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 
9 read with sub-rule (3) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1991, 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 872, dated the 6th April, 1956, the 
Central Government hereby re-appoints after consultation with the Central 
Board of Film Censors Shrimati Dr. Seeta Parmanand, M.P., as a member of 
the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 1st Mar ch, 
1956. 

[No. 14/1/55-FC.] 


New Delhi, the 8th June 1956 

S.R.O. 1407. — In exercisei of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
reed with sub-rule (3) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, 
and in supersession of the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting No. S.R.O. 1005, dated the 23rd April 1956 
the Central Government hereby re-appoints after consultation with tha Central 
Board of Film Censors Shri Tajamul Hussain, as a member of the Advisory 
Penel of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from the 1st March , 1956. 

[No. 14/1/58-FC.] 


S.R.O. 1408.— It is hereby notified for general information that Shri M. N. 
Kapur, a member of the Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors 
at Madras shall retire under sub-rule (1) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1951, with effect from the 12th June, 1956. 

[No. 14/1/B8-FC.] 




IPart n-SEc. i 


10 46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, JUNE 16. 1909 


SJt.O. 1409. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
read with sub-rule (3; oi rule 10 01 tlie Cinematograph (Censorship; Rulei, 1351, 
the Central Government hereby re-appoints alter consultation witn the Central 
Board ol ij'iltn Censors £>hxi M. N. Kapur as a member ol the/ Advisory Panel ol 
ute said Board at Madras witn cheer, irom the lztn June lyatj. 


[No. 14/1/56-FC.] 

S.R.O. 1410. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
react with sub-rule (3) oi rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1051, 
and in supersession or the iNotiftcation of tne Government of India in the Ministry 
of Information and Broadcasting bio*, S.R.O. 100b, 1115 and 1177 dated the 23rd 
April, 30th April, and 10th May, loot) respectively, the Central Government 
hereby re-appoints after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors the 
following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at 
Bombay with effect from the dates indicated against their names: — 

1. Shri Krishna Krlpalani — 1st March, 1950. 

2. Shrimati Gopa Bhardwaj — 4th March, 1950. 

3. Shri A. N. Basu — 1st March, 1950. 

[No. 14/1/50-FC.] 
D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1950 



